Fine motor control plays a key role in daily life and academic learning of schoolchildren.
For example, handwriting, craft, and drawing require skilled fine motor function. In Taiwan, a lot
of graphmotor activities have been introduced to children from the age of kindergarten. After
entering the primary school, handwriting become the most important skills in school activities.
These activities usually occupy the most of the school activities. Furthermore, these skills can
build the foundations of future daily life skill and academic learning for the future of school life.
Handwriting is an imperative fine motor skill that is related to most of every child's school
activities. From a survey of on occupational therapy service in elementary schools, the most
common referrals were handwriting problems (Schneck & Henderson, 1990; Reisman, 1991;
Tseng & Cermak, 1993). Children with motor dyspraxia or other perceptual-motor problems were
found prone to be affected with academic learning problems, especially in the topics related to
handwriting activities (Roussounis, Gaussen, Stratton, 1987; Willoughby & Polatajko, 1995;
Miller, Missiuna, Macnab, Malloy-Miller, & Polatajko, 2001; Smits-Engelsman, Niemeijer, &
Van Galen, 2001).
The functional skill of handwriting is vital for accomplishing academic tasks that require
writing, enabling students to express themselves legibly and efficiently through written
assignments that they can complete in a timely manner (Amundson & Weil, 2001). In general,
elementary school children spend up to half their school day engaged in writing tasks, some of
which (e.g., paper and pencil tests) are performed under the constraints of time (McHale &
Cermak, 1992; Tseng & Chow, 2000). Therefore, a child’s ability to write in a manner that is
both legible and efficient, directly affects his or her school performance and academic
advancement (Amundson & Weil, 1996; Phelps et al., 1985; Tseng & Cermak, 1993; Tseng &
Hsueh, 1997).
For most children, writing becomes an automatic tool that enables them to organize their
thoughts and express the knowledge they acquire during their formative years (Phelps et al.,
1985). In contrast, children who experience handwriting difficulties may find that it takes them
longer than their peers to complete their assignments and that they are limited in terms of
compositional fluency and quality. Such children can experience difficulties in expressing their
thoughts and ideas, and may even receive lower marks for their work on the basis of its
diminished legibility rather than its content (Amundson & Weil, 2001).
Studies have indicated that handwriting dysfunction among school-aged children is a
widespread and significant phenomenon. Smits-Englesman et al. (2001) reported that 32% of the
boys and 11% of the girls in the Netherlands were described by their teachers as having
significant handwriting difficulties. These numbers are similar to the findings of Rubin and
Henderson (1982) who estimated that 12 to 21 percent of elementary students in England
displayed problems related to writing legibility or speed. In Taiwan, there is still no prevalence
report about handwriting deficits. This is why we need pay more effort on this study field.
Evaluation of Handwriting Skills
Handwriting deficits may result from the processes of cognitive, psychosocial, sensorimotor,
fine motor skill, visual, and auditory functions. Handwriting evaluation includes interviews with
the teachers of students, inspection of children’s handwriting, observation of activities in the
classroom, and formal or informal handwriting performance assessment (Benbow, Hanft, &
the result between proficient and non-proficient handwriters will become possible. Computerized
digitizer enabled a more in-depth study of the nature and characteristics of the handwriting of
proficient and non-proficient handwriters. The specific research questions are (1) What are the
motor control and biomechanical characteristics of handwriting as performed by a non-proficient
handwriters? (2) How do these characteristics differ between proficient and non-proficient
handwriters?
The aims of this study
To date, perceptual function, motor planning and motor control have been paid more attention
in the field of handwriting study. The objective of this study is to show how advanced digital
technology enables a more in-depth study of the temporal and kinematic characteristics of the
handwriting of children with or without handwriting deficit. This study will implement the
graphomotor apparatuses (digital tablet) to investigate the movement coordination and motor
control in relation to handwriting. Through a series of experiment design, the fine motor control
of children with handwriting deficits has been studied.
The first component of this study is the experiments in accuracy and speed of handwriting
movement. Experiments are designed to observe the neuromotor noise model in children with
handwriting deficit. The second component is to explore the force exertion on the paper in the
different groups. Experiments are also designed to compare the difference between the two
groups. The third component is to observe the changes of the axial pen force and grip pressure in
the handwriting process. The final is the intervention component. Tracing activity as used in
evaluation will be used to train the acquisition of handwriting skill. Furthermore, reducing
performance-cue technique can be easily implemented on the tablet PC. This technique will also
be included into the training program. The training effect will also be tested by the statistical
method as depicted bellow.
The specific research questions are
(1) What are the temporal characteristics of handwriting as performed by 1st- and 2nd- grade
children?
(2) How do these temporal characteristics differ between children with and without handwriting
deficit?
(3) How do the kinematic measurements differ between children with and without handwriting
deficit?
Methods
Participants
40 children with handwriting deficit (non-proficient handwriter) were recruited in this study.
Non-proficient handwriters were recruited by the referrals from school teachers. Another matched
40 proficient handwriters were also included as control group. Children with documented
physical impairment were excluded from this study. The children who were classified into groups
of non-proficient handwriters were confirmed by the Chinese handwriting evaluation
questionnaire, a reliable and valid handwriting assessment for the Chinese language. During test
development, reliability and validity were established. It was content validated through a table of
classroom which was designed for children with special need in their school. Each participant
was tested individually during the morning hours. The participants were seated on a standard
school chair and in front of a standard school desk which are appropriate to his or her age and
height. The tasks were written on normal writing paper with printed lineation, which is affixed to
the digitizing tablet. Each participant was instructed in the same fashion about what he or she will
be required to do. The testing took approximately 45 minutes. All computerized data collection
sessions were administered by the same individual. In the experiment, the displacement of pen tip
can be monitored and recorded by a computer program running on Windows XP.
Handwriting Tasks
For measuring the Far-point and Near-point copy, an A4-sized paper will be placed on the
digital tablet. In an arrangement of 5 rows and 5 columns (25 grid cells), every grid cell has a size
of 18*18 mm. In addition, the Chinese spelling symbols were also used for the test of Near-point
copy. The subjects were instructed to copy the testing tasks on the grid cell. For measuring the
Short paragraph copy, the originally A4 sized test sheet was placed on the digital tablet. In an
arrangement of 10 columns, every column has a width of 18 mm. The subjects were instructed to
copy the testing task on the test sheet. They were told that they should write as fast and accuracy
as possible. The task was not constrained in time. The number of letters written within two
minutes was counted for the measuring the writing speed. The examiner gave instructions and
monitored the practice process. After confirmation that the child knew how to do that, the
measurement started. The whole process was recorded and the data were saved into a computer
hard disk for further offline analysis.
Study Design
This study used a cross-sectional design in which the performance of two groups of children
was compared. The first group included children who are non-proficient handwriters and the
second group included proficient handwriters who are matched to the first group by age, gender,
and classroom. Writing tasks of experiment are designed to digital tablet. Each child is tested
during one 45-minute session carried out at his or her school.
For the primary outcome of direct measures, it includes the total time spent in the task, writing
speed, force exerted on pen rod or paper, on-paper and in-air time, on-paper and in-air trajectory
length. The derived parameters from direct measures are the percentage of on-paper and in-air
time and percentage of on-paper and in-air trajectory length.
Digital Analysis of Computer Program
The computer program was written by Visual C++ language. It can analyze the handwriting
process directly and function with friendly graphic user interface by the combination of graphics
windows and interactive commands. Figure 2 is an example of data collection interface and for
the visualization of on-paper and in-air trajectories. Figure 3 is the processing results of the
of data presented on Fig. 2. The function of this window is for the display of parameters of
handwriting performance.
Measurement Parameters
Temporal Measurement
1. Speed (words per second)
2. Movement time
It is the total time spent on the writing. It includes the in-air time and On-paper time.
a. The on-paper time
The digitizer can detect the pen tip whether it touches on paper or not. If the pen tip contacts
the digitizer, the status is termed as“on-paper”. The total accumulated time of pen tip
touching on the paper is total on-paper time.
b. The in-air time
If the pen tip does not contact the digitizer, the status is termed as“in-air”. The total
accumulated time of pen without touching the paper is total in-air time.
3. Kinematics measurements
a. The on-paper trajectory length
The trajectory of pen tip moves on the paper has been recorded. The total accumulated
length of the trajectory is total on-paper length. The measurement parameters include the
average and total length of all strokes.
b. The in-air trajectory length
If the subject lifts the pen from the tablet surface and moves above the tablet within 10 mm,
the trajectory of pen tip can be recorded. The measurement parameters include the average
and total length of all adjacent strokes.
c. Stroke velocity
The stroke velocity was observed from two aspects. One is the average speed of the all
strokes. The other is the peak velocity and the time it occurs. This parameter can represent the
coordination and smoothness of handwriting movement.
4. Kinetics Measurements
The grip force and axial pen pressure were recorded when the testing process proceeds. The grip
force value is acquired from sensors on thumb and index fingers. The axial pen pressure is the
tangential force acting on the writing surface with a resolution of 1024 levels.
Data analysis
There are two kinds of measuring parameter in this study. It includes direct and indirect
measures. Off-line data analysis is needed in the indirect measures. In this study, it was
performed by MATLAB mathematical software (MATLAB 6.2). The measuring parameters were
compared between the two groups. In temporal parameters, it includes writing speed, percentage
of on-paper time, percentage of in-air. In kinematic measurement of handwriting script, it
includes percentage of on-paper trajectory, percentage of in-air trajectory. In kinetic
measurements, it includes the grip force on the pen rod and the axial pen pressure on the paper.
In-air time as a percent of total
time
In-air pause unitsMeasures
Subjects
Between
characters
Within
character Total
On-paper
time as a
percent of
total time
Between
characters
Within
character Total
Pause
units on
paper
Proficient
.21
(.08)
.40
(.09)
.61
(.08)
.39
(.08)
3.3
(2.2)
19.5
(11.0)
22.8
(10.9)
3.1
(2.4)
Non-
proficient
.23
(.10)
.39
(.08)
.62
(.09)
.38
(.09)
1.9
(1.7)
10.1
(5.3)
12.0
(5.4)
4.5
(11.2)
p-value .304 .636 .523 .523 0.03 0.001 0.001 0.64
Table 4. Far-point Copy (Derived Temporal Parameters)
In-air time as a percent of total
time
In-air pause unitsMeasures
Subjects
Between
characters
Within
character Total
On-paper
time as a
percent of
total time
Between
characters
Within
character Total
Pause
units on
paper
Proficient
.23
(.08)
.41
(.08)
.64
(.08)
.36
(.08)
2.3
(1.9)
17.3
(11.5)
19.7
(13.3)
3.4
(0.9)
Non-
proficient
.22
(.09)
.41
(.09)
.62
(.12)
.38
(.12)
0.96
(1.3)
11.4
(6.7)
12.4
(7.2)
4.6
(11.3)
p-value .524 .979 .514 .514 0.007 0.038 0.023 0.705
Table 5. Near-point Copy (Kinematic Parameters)
In-air trajectory length (mm)
Measures
Subjects Between
characters
Within
character Total
On-paper
trajectory
length (mm)
Writing speed
(sec/word)
Proficient
75.4
(33.6)
71.0
(20.0)
146.4
(41.6)
56.6
(18.4)
9.4
(2.6)
Non-proficient
79.5
(41.8)
73.4
(23.1)
152.9
(46.6)
51.7
(22.5)
10.0
(3.1)
P-value .637 .635 .525 .307 .384
Table 6. Far-point Copy (Kinematic Parameters)
In-air trajectory length (mm)
Measures
Subjects Between
characters
Within
character Total
On-paper
trajectory
length (mm)
Writing speed
(sec/word)
Proficient
84.7
(31.6)
79.1
(23.3)
160.0
(47.3)
50.8
(16.7)
9.35
(2.08)
Non-proficient
78.0
(29.1)
88.7
(31.0)
166.7
(51.1)
51.6
(21.6)
10.7
(2.01)
P-value .045 .377 .610 .852 .049
movements and product associated with poor writing. However, as suggested by Van Galen et al.
(1993), more studies should be done on the relationship between handwriting problems and other
motor difficulties, the importance of information processing to these motor strategies, and how
these deficits change over time in individuals, in order to provide much needed normative data.
From the experiments of Heuvel, et al., during handwriting movements, the on-line visual
feedback of either slant or size was transformed to study the time course and biomechanics of the
participants’compensations for these distortions. Fluency, movement time, and axial pen force
were measured (Heuvel, Van Galen, Teulings, Gemmert, 1998). According to their theory, changing
the scaling factor of slant or size is equivalent to a processing demand that is reflected in
deteriorated signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) in the neuromotor system. At the behavioral level,
deteriorated SNRs will result in less fluent writing, which can be compensated by applying a
biomechanical noise filtering strategy of increased limb stiffness. This strategy will lead to
increased axial pen force, and, with higher degrees of difficulty, to a loss of movement speed.
Results revealed decrements in writing fluency together with increments in axial pen force and
increments in movement time when compensations to the feedback transformations coincided
with the more difficult task conditions. These findings contrast with the traditional resource
theory (Kahneman, 1973) in which chronometric measures alone indicate increased processing
demands.
Smits-Engelsman et al. (2001) believed that handwriting deficit was the result of a deficit in
neuromuscular control, and that poor neural control resulted in poor handwriting performance in
children with DCD. They used neuromotor noise theory to describe the features of handwriting
deficit in children. The theory hypothesized that handwriting, to a child with motor deficits, is a
stressful situation. When the stress presents itself among normally developed children, they have
concise neuromotor signals with which to overcome the enhanced noise, such that an acceptable
signal/noise ratio results. When the same type of stress is encountered by subjects with DCD,
according to that theory, handwriting proves stressfull to the students. They usually use phasic or
tonic strategies to filter out the neuromotor noise. If neither phasic nor tonic stiffness could be
maintained, especially when difficult letters appeared, illegible handwriting would be produced.
One of the strategies of DCD children is to speed up the stroke, in order to increase phasic
stiffness; the other is to increase the pentip pressure to maintain the tonic stiffness (van Galen,
Portier, Smits-Engelaman & Schomaker, 1993). This study found that, in the case of simplex
characters, children with DCD have a faster stroke velocity than that of normally developed
children.
In addition, this study also found that when children with DCD wrote complex characters,
they usually slowed down their stroke speed. Complex characters are composed not only of
simple straight strokes but also combinations of strokes with different lengths, directions, and
turning points. What is required is the closed-loop control with more visual feedback to adjust the
procedure. Most children with DCD have difficulty in visual feedback and the integration of the
visual and motor systems (Geuze & Kalverboer, 1987; Lord & Hulme, 1987; van der Meulen,
Denier van de Gon, Gielen, Gooskens, & Willemse, 1991ab; Wilson & McKenzie, 1998). When
the visual feedback can not be performed efectively, the number of ‘looking at’ increases, so that
the stroke speed will be reduced. Phasic stiffness strategy used in simplex characters was no
longer used to stabilize the stroke in complex characters.
children’s handwriting manuscript. American Journal of Occupational Therapy, 52, 248-255.
Hollerbach J. M. and Flash T. (1982) Dynamic interactions between limb segments during planar
arm movement. Biol Cybernetics, 44, 67–77.
Keele, S. W. (1981) Behavioral analysis of movement. In: V.B. Brooks, Editor, Handbook of
Physiology, Vol II Motor control, part 2, Am Physiology Society, Baltimore, pp. 1391–1414.
McHale, K., & Cermak, S. A. (1992) Fine motor activities in elementary school: Preliminary
findings and provisional implications for children with fine motor problems. American
Journal of Occupational Therapy, 46, 898-892.
Miller, L. T., Missiuna, C. A., Macnab, J. J., Malloy-Miller, T., & Polatajko, H. J. (2001) Clinical
description of children with developmental coordination disorder. Canadian Journal of
Occupational Therapy - Revue Canadienne d Ergotherapie, 68, 5-15.
Phelps, J., Stempel, L., & Speck, G. (1985). The children’s handwriting scale: A new diagnostic 
tool. Journal of Educational Research, 79, 46-50.
Plamondon, R., Guerfali, W. (1998) The 2/3 power law: when and why?. Acta Psychologica. 100,
85-96.
Reisman, J. (1991) Poor handwriting: who is referred? American Journal of Occupational
Therapy, 45, 849-852.
Rosenblum, S., Weiss, P. L., Parush S. (2004) Handwriting evaluation for developmental
dysgraphia: Process versus product. Reading and Writing, 17, 433-458.
Roussounis, S. H., Gaussen, T. H., & Stratton, P. (1987) A 2-year follow-up study of children
with motor coordination problem identified at school entry age. Child Care Hlth Dev, 13,
377-391.
Rijntjes, M., Dettmers, C., Büchel, C., Kiebel S., Frackowiak, R. S. J. & Weiller, C. (1999) A
Blueprint for Movement: Functional and Anatomical Representations in the Human Motor
System, The Journal of Neuroscience, 19, 8043-8048.
Sanguineti,V., Frisone, F., Bruni, S., Morasso, P. (1998) Can non-linear muscle dynamics explain
the smoothness of handwriting movements? Acta Psychologica, 100, pp. 217-227.
Schneck, C. M., & Henderson, A. (1990) Descriptive analysis of the developmental progression
of grip position for pencil and crayon control on nondysfunctional children. The American
Journal of Occupational Therapy, 44, 893-900.
Smits-Engelsman, B. C. M., Niemeijer, A. S., & Van Galen, G. P. (2001) Fine motor deficiencies
in children diagnosed as DCD based on poor grapho-motor ability. Human Movement
Science, 20, 161-182.
Smits-Engelsman, B. C. M., & Van Galen, G .P. (1997) Dysgraphia in children: Lasting
psychomotor deficiency or transient developmental delay? Journal of Experimental Child
Psychology 67, 164-184.
Sovik, N., Arntzen, O., & Thygesen, R. (1987) Writing characteristics of “normal”, dyslexic and 
