目錄 
一、 中英文摘要 .......................................................... 3 
(一) 中文摘要 .......................................................... 3 
(二) 英文摘要 .......................................................... 3 
二、 報告內容 ............................................................ 4 
(一) 前言 .............................................................. 4 
(二) 相關研究 .......................................................... 5 
2.1 Overview ........................................................ 5 
2.2 Prefix Delegation Scheme ........................................ 6 
2.3 SIP-Based Scheme ................................................ 7 
(三) 網路移動（NEMO） .................................................. 9 
3.1 NEMO Architecture ............................................... 9 
3.2 NEMO Basic Support Protocol .................................... 10 
(四) Mobile IPv6 快速換手機制.......................................... 13 
4.1 Overview ....................................................... 13 
4.2 Predictive Mode ................................................ 14 
4.3 Reactive Mode .................................................. 16 
(五) 問題描述與解決方法 ............................................... 17 
5.1 Problems Statement ............................................. 17 
5.2 Proposed Solutions ............................................. 21 
(六) 效能分析 ......................................................... 23 
6.1 Handover Latencies ............................................. 23 
6.2 Packet Loss .................................................... 25 
6.3 Packet Delay ................................................... 26 
6.4 Numerical results .............................................. 27 
(七) 結論 ............................................................. 30 
三、 計畫成果自評 ....................................................... 31 
四、 文獻參考 ........................................................... 32 
 
二、 報告內容 
(一) 前言 
 With the development of wireless access technologies, users can access Internet 
from anywhere at anytime using any device. Even they will access Internet when they 
take mass transit systems or derive cars. Hence, the connections between Internet 
and mobile nodes are requested to keep during the handover periods of the mobile 
users. With the number of mobile nodes increasing, the mobility issues of mobile 
nodes are widely discussed in modern research. In addition, mobile users usually 
take mass transit systems such as trains, buses and so on. In order to simplify 
the mobility management of those mobile users in a vehicle, the concept of network 
mobility was proposed. 
 
For an mobile node (MN), Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) has been offered 
mobile IPv6 (MIPv6) to support the MN's mobility management. The MN which supports 
MIPv6 has a home IP address. When the MN roams around on Internet, its home IP address 
is not changed. In addition, the MN has a home agent (HA) which is located at the 
home network of the MN. The HA will record the MN's care of address (CoA). The CoA 
is a temporary IP address of the MN which is in a foreign network. When an MN moves 
to a foreign network, the MN generates a CoA by IPv6 auto-configuration scheme and 
utilizes a binding update (BU) message to indicate its HA to modify the record 
information. Hence, the data packets which are sent to the MN are routed to the 
MN's home network by the standard routing protocol. Then the MN's HA forwards the 
data packets to MN's CoA through an MIPv6 IP tunnel. 
 
An MN which supports MIPv6 would suffer from long handover latency and can not 
receive the data packet during its handover period. This feature makes the MN to 
lose many data packets during its handover period. In addition, the MN can not 
support the real-time multimedia service such as VoIP. In order to reduce the packet 
loss and the handover latency, IETF offers fast handover for mobile IPv6 (FMIPv6) 
to support MIPv6. An MN which supports FMIPv6 obtains the link information of 
neighbor foreign networks by link layer scheme such as radio channel scanning. Then, 
the MN utilizes the information to obtain the IP information of neighbor foreign 
networks. Based on this feature, the MN reduces the packet loss and the handover 
latency. In addition, the MN can receive the data packets before the MN sending 
a BU message back to its HA. Based on this feature, the MN can reduce the packet 
loss during its handover period. 
 
The concept of network mobility (NEMO) is that several mobile nodes which have 
tunnelled by all the HAs of the MRs. The figure 2.1 shows an example of multi-angular 
routing problem. Currently, there are many solutions 
\cite{NEMO09}\cite{NEMO10}\cite{NEMO11} have been proposed. Two related works are 
described simply next two sections. 
 
 
  
2.2 Prefix Delegation Scheme 
 In this solution, an MR can obtain a additional network prefix from its attached 
access router by Prefix Delegation protocol [9] and advertises the delegated prefix 
to its subnetwork. Each MNN configures its CoA according to the delegated prefix. 
Then the MN will send the BU message to the correspondent node (CN). After the prefix 
delegation, the routing tables of each router are updated by routing protocol. Hence, 
the MN is permitted to communicate with the CN directly bypass ingress filtering. 
This solution is shown as the figure 2.2. Each MN which is in the mobile network 
will obtain two CoAs, one is generated according to network prefix and another is 
generated according to delegated prefix. However, the local fixed node in the mobile 
network still communicates with CN through the bi-directional IP tunnel between 
the MR and its HA. In addition, when the mobile network changes its attached access 
router, all MNNs need to perform the binding update procedure and suffer from 
binding update storm. 
 
 
 
 The session establishment of SIP-NEMO is shown as figure 2.4. When SIP client 
B sends a INVITE message to SIP client A, this INVITE message would be forwarded 
to the SIP-HS of SIP client A. The SIP-HS would respond the SIP-NMS URI to SIP client 
B. Then SIP client B sends a INVITE message to the SIP-NMS according to the respond 
from SIP-HS of SIP client A. The SIP-HS of the SIP-NMS translates the SIP header 
of the INVITE message and forward the INVITE message to the SIP-NMS. After receiving 
the INVITE message, the SIP-NMS translates the SIP header and forwards the INVITE 
message to the SIP client A. When SIP client A replies the 200OK message to SIP 
client B through the SIP-NMS, the SIP-NMS also translates the SIP header of 200OK 
message. Then there are two real real-time transport protocol (RTP) sessions. One 
is between the SIP-NMS and SIP client A, another is between the SIP-NMS and SIP 
client B. SIP client B would send the data to the SIP-NMS and the SIP-NMS would 
send the data packets to SIP client A. The data transmission path between SIP client 
B and SIP client A would be optimal. SIP-NEMO also support the nested mobile network. 
However, this scheme utilizes application layer protocol to solves the routing 
optimization problem. It will suffer from the long handover latency. 
 
(LFNs) belong to the mobile network and cannot move with respect to the mobile router. 
Second, local mobile nodes (LMNs) belong to the mobile network, but they can move 
freely to other IP subnetwork. Third, visited mobile nodes (VMNs) do not belong 
to the mobile network, but they move to this mobile network from other IP subnetwork. 
An mobile network may move to other mobile networks. In this case, this architecture 
is called nested mobile network architecture. In this thesis, we do not consider 
the nested mobile network architecture. 
 
 The benefits of the network mobility are described as bellow: 
z First: Reduced the transmission powerÆ For the MNs which are in the mobile 
network, the radio transmission distance between the MNNs and a wireless 
access point (AP) which is in the mobile network is shorter than one between 
the MNNs and a AP which is on Internet. Hence, the MNNs can use minimal 
power to connect Internet. 
z Second: Reduced the handover complexityÆ When an mobile network changes 
its point of attachment to Internet, only the MR needs to perform the link 
switching and auto configure a location specific address. Since all 
external communication is via the MR. For each MNN, the address would not 
have been kept changing. 
z Third: Reduced the consumption of the bandwidth and the location update 
delaysÆ When an mobile network moves to an IP subnetwork from another, 
only the MR needs to perform the handover procedure. The procedure includes 
the layer2 switching, the registration, and location update. Hence, few 
the signals, the registration messages, and the location update messages 
are transmitting on Internet. The bandwidth consumption and the location 
update delays are reduced. 
 
In order to manage the mobility of an mobile network simply and efficiently, 
the IETF offers Network Mobility Basic Support Protocol (NEMOBSP) to support the 
mobility management of an mobile network. This standard is based on MIPv6 and 
defines the registration and location update behavior between the MR and its HA. 
The detailed description about NEMOBSP is described next section. 
 
3.2 NEMO Basic Support Protocol 
 When an MR (R) which is in an mobile network (MNET) uses MIPv6 to support its 
mobility management, it will suffer a problem. This problem is briefly described 
as follow: when MNET moves to the foreign network from its home network, R would 
send a BU message to R＇s HA (H). This BU message only includes R＇s home address 
(HoA) and care of address (CoA). The CoA is a valid IPv6 address in a foreign network. 
When H receives this message, H only binds R＇s coA with R＇s HoA. Once the packets 
are sent to an MNN which is in MNET, H does not have location information of the 
 
The packet forwarding procedure is illustrated in Figure 3.3. The data packets which 
are sent from the CN (eg. 3ffe:1000:1:1::1) to the LFN (eg. 3ffe:ffff:1:2::2) would 
be routed to H (eg.3ffe:ffff:1:1::fffe). When H receives the data packets, H would 
encapsulate the data packets within the bi-directional IP tunnel according to the 
binding table. Those bi-directional IP tunnel packets would be forwarded to the 
foreign network which R attaches. When R receives the bidirectional IP tunnel 
packets, R would decapsulate the bi-directional IP tunnel packets and forward inner 
data packets to the LFN. 
 
 
 
 In NEMOBSP, the access router (AR) that the MR attaches only knows the MR is 
an mobile node, thus the packets which are sent to/from the mobile network need 
to be transmitted through the bi-directional IP tunnel. If the MR does not 
encapsulate the outgoing packets within the bidirectional IP tunnel, every outgoing 
packets have a source address that does not belong to the IP subnetwork that the 
MR attaches and will be filter by the AR. The presence of the bi-directional IP 
tunnel in the NEMO architecture is necessary. But the bi-directional IP tunnel 
induces a problem, the MN which supportes the FMIPv6 will lose the expected 
performance in the NEMO architecture. In order to understand the whys and wherefores, 
FMIPv6 is described next chapter. 
 
prefix, default access router and so on. Then the MN utilizes the predictive method 
to generate a new care of address (NCoA) and request the PAR to create a IP tunnel 
between the PAR and the MN＇s NCoA. When the MN moves to a new foreign network, 
the MN can send and receive the packets as soon as possible without IP configuration 
and location update. Hence, FMIPv6 permits the MN to reduce packet loss and packet 
delay during its handover period. NEMOBSP is based on MIPv6 and inherits the 
drawbacks of MIPv6. The drawbacks include long handover latency, mass packet loss 
and long packet delay. So an MR which supports NEMOBSP can not support the real-time 
multimedia service. FMIPv6 does not be proposed for an MR which supports NEMOBSP, 
but the MR can utilize FMIPv6 to reduce handover latency, packet loss and packet 
delay during its handover period. We introduce the FMIPv6 procedure with an MR which 
supports NEMOBSP next section. 
 
4.2 Predictive Mode 
 The FMIPv6 procedure is illustrated in Figure 4.1 and is briefly described as 
follows. 
Step 1. The MR (R) discoveries a near access point (eg. AP2) by means of layer 2 
methods such as radio channel scanning. 
Step 2. After discovering a near access point, R sends a router solicitation for 
proxy advertisement (RtSolPr) message to R＇s default access router (PAR). PAR 
replies a proxy router advertisement (PrRtAdv) message which includes the IP 
information about the near foreign network (F2). The information includes 
foreign network prefix(eg. 3ffe:ffff:2:1::/64), default router and so on. 
Step 3. R uses the information which is included in PrRtAdv to generate a NCoA (eg. 
3ffe:ffff:2:1::1). When a link-specific handover event occurs, R sends a fast 
binding update (FBU) message with the NCoA to PAR. R instructs PAR to forward 
the data packets which are sent to the old CoA (eg. 3ffe:ffff:3:1::1) to the 
NCoA by sending FBU. 
Step 4. After receiving FBU, PAR sends a handover initiate (HI) message to the R＇s 
new access router (NAR). The content of HI message includes the R＇s old CoA, 
NCoA and link-layer address. 
Step 5. When NAR receives the HI message, the NAR would perform the duplicate 
address detection (DAD) procedure to ensure that R＇s NCoA is unique. 
Step 6. If R＇s NCoA is unique, NAR would reply a handover acknowledge (HAck) 
message to indicate that NCoA is valid. If R＇s NCoA is not unique, NAR would 
reply HAck to indicate that R＇s NCoA is invalid. R would assign a valid NCoA 
and carrie this NCoA in HAck message. 
Step 7. After PAR receives HAck, PAR sends fast binding acknowledge (FBAck) with 
a valid NCoA to R and NAR. 
Step 8. PAR records the mapping information of R＇s old CoA and NCoA. If PAR 
receives the data packets which are sent into MNET, PAR uses the mapping 
PAR and the NAR have an overlapping area and the connection between the PAR and 
the MN/MR needs to be kept until the MN/MR receives the FBAck message. If the PAR 
and the NAR do not have an overlapping area, the MN/MR can not utilize the link 
layer information to obtain the near foreign network IP information. In the real 
scenario, first condition is achieved easily. Another condition may be not achieved 
in real scenario because the MN/MR may move too fast to can not send the FBU message 
or receive the FBAck message before the connection breaking. Then the FMIPv6 
standard provides other solution for this problem. Thus FMIPV6 has two modes, first 
mode is called predictive mode which is described above. When the connection between 
the PAR and the MN/MR is broken after the MN/MR receiving the FBAck message, the 
predictive mode of FMIPv6 supports the MN/MR to improve its performance. Second 
mode is called reactive mode which will be introduce next section. When the 
connection between the PAR and the MN/MR is broken before the MN/MR sending the 
FBU message or receiving the FBAck message, the reactive mode of FMIPv6 supports 
the MN/MR to improve its performance. Reactive mode procedure is described next 
section. 
  
4.3 Reactive Mode 
 If the connection between the MN/MR and the PAR is broken before the MN/MR 
sending the FBU message or receives the FBAck message, the MN/MR can not sure that 
its NCoA is valid and the PAR can not create an IP tunnel between the PAR and the 
MN/MR. Hence, the MN/MR can not receive and send the packets before the MN/MR sending 
the BU message to its home agent. In order to solve this problem, FMIPv6 provides 
the reactive mode procedure that is described as follow (figure 4.3). 
  
 
MN moves into an mobile network which supports NEMOBSP. Consider the scenario in 
the figure 5.1, an VMN moves into an mobile network. In order to simplify and 
highlight the problem, there are three assumptions.  
z First The wireless signal coverage of a fixed network (eg. the foreign network 
2 in the figure 5.1) can cover the wireless signal coverage of the mobile 
network.  
z Second Only one mobile network will be near the VMN.  
z Third Before the VMN moves to the mobile network, the VMN and the MR have a 
same default router (eg. the VMN＇s PAR in the figure 5.1). The reason of the 
problem is illustrated with the operations of FMIPv6 predictive mode, as shown 
in figure 5.2. Step 1. The VMN discoveries a new near wireless access point 
(eg. AP2 in the figure 5.2) by 23 
The reason of the problem is illustrated with the operations of FMIPv6 predictive 
mode, as shown in figure 5.2. 
 
Step 1. The VMN discoveries a new near wireless access point (eg. AP2 in the figure 
5.2) by means of layer 2 methods such as radio channel scanning. 
Step 2. After discovering a new near wireless access point, the VMN sends the RtSolPr 
message to the PAR. The PAR replies the PrRtAdv message to the VMN. The new near 
foreign network IP information (eg. network prefix of the mobile network, MR＇s 
ingress IP address and soon) is carried in the PrRtAdv message. 
Step 3. The VMN can utilize the information carried in the PrRtAdv message to 
generate a NCoA. When a link-specific handover event occurs, the VMN would send 
the FBU message to the PAR.  
NEMOBSP IP tunnel, the MR would decrypt the NEMOBSP IP tunnel and forward the data 
packets to the VMN＇s NCoA. After the VMN receiving the data packet, the VMN decrypts 
the FMIPv6 IP tunnel and the MIP IP tunnel. The data packets forwarding path is 
illustrated in the figure 5.3. 
 As the above, two problems would occur when a mobile mode which supports the 
FMIPv6 moves to a mobile network which supports the NEMOBSP. First problem is the 
routing path of the data packets. If the mobile node which supports the FMIPv6 moves 
to a fixed foreign network, the route path between the PAR and the NAR is optimal. 
If the NAR is a mobile router which supports NEMOBSP, the route path between the 
PAR and the NAR is not optimal. When the problem occurs, the mobile node would 
increase the packet delay during its handover period. Second problem is that some 
FMIPv6 signal messages need to be transmitted through bi-directional tunnel. 
Because the HI message, Hack message and FBack message have a long transmission 
time, the mobile node frequently loses the connection with the PAR before the mobile 
node completes the IP configuration and IP tunnel creation. This problem makes the 
mobile node to perform the FMIPv6 in the reactive mode frequently. In the reactive 
mode, the 
 
 
mapping information which includes the new CoA and old CoA of the VMN and the 
current CoA of the NAR. 
z Reactive Mode: In E-FMIPv6 reactive mode, the procedure of E-FMIPv6 is as same 
as the procedure of traditional FMIPv6. The difference between E-FMIPv6 and 
traditional FMIPv6 is that the NAR would make the FBU message that is parsed 
from the FNA message to carry the current CoA of the NAR in mobility option 
filed of the FBU message. The FBU is a UDP packet and its format is shown as 
the figure 5.5. In traditional FMIPv6 reactive mode, the mobility option filed 
of the FBU message does not carry any information. If the PAR parses the mobility 
option filed and obtains the information, the PAR knows that the NAR is an MR 
and the information means the current CoA of the NAR. The PAR would record the 
mapping information which includes the new CoA and old CoA of the VMN and the 
current of the NAR. 
 
5.2.3 Modification of IP Tunnel Scheme 
In order to not increase the overhead of the data packet transmission, the IP tunnel 
scheme needs to be modified in the E-FMIPv6 predictive mode and reactive mode. The 
E-FMIPv6 IP tunnel scheme os described as follows: before the PAR forwards the data 
packets to the VMN＇s NCoA, the PAR needs to decapsulate the IP header of the MIPv6 
IP tunnel. Then the PAR encapsulates the data packets by two IP tunnels which are 
called E-FMIPv6 outer IP tunnel and E-FMIPv6 inner IP tunnel. The source address 
of the E-FMIPv6 inner IP tunnel header is the IP address of the PAR and the 
destination address is the current CoA of the NAR. The source of the E-FMIPv6 outer 
IP tunnel header is the IP address of the PAR and the destination address is the 
VMN＇s NCoA. Then the routing path between the PAR and the NAR is optimal. The 
scenario of the data packets forwarding between the CN and the VMN is illustrated 
in the figure5.6. 
 
TBU = 2dwl + dw(1 + hMR−MRHA + hMRHA−MNHA) (6.3) 
For deriving Eq.(6.1)-(6.3), the following logics are used. In traditional 
FMIPv6 predictive mode, the RtSol, PrRtAdv, FBU, HI, Hack and FBack message 
are transmitted before the link layer switching of the MN. The transmission 
times of those messages are not included in the handover latency of the MN. 
Only the transmission time of the FNA message and BU message are included in 
the handover latency of the MN. In the NEMO architecture, the handover latency 
of the MN which performs traditional FMIPv6 predictive mode is expressed as 
Eq(6.1). 
 
The FNA message is sent from the MN to the MR (NAR). The transmission path 
includes one wireless link and one wire link. Then the transmission time of 
the FNA message is expressed as Eq.(6.2). 
 
The BU message is sent from the MN to the MN＇s HA. The BU message needs to 
be forwarded from the MR to the MR＇s HA through the NEMOBSP IP tunnel. Then 
the MR＇s HA needs to forward the BU message to the MN＇s HA. So The number 
of wire link that the BU message needs to bypass is the sum of hMR−MRHA and hMRHA−MNHA. 
The number of wireless link the BU message needs to be bypassed is two. First 
wireless link is between the MN and its attachment point. Second wireless link 
is between the MR (NAR) and its attachment point. Then the transmission time 
of the BU message is expressed as Eq.(6.3). 
 
z Traditional FMIPv6 Reactive mode:  
In the NEMO architecture, the handover latency of anMN which performs 
traditional FMIPv6 reactive mode can be derived as follows. 
 
Then the component times are expressed as follows. 
 
For deriving Eq.(6.4)-(6.7), the following logics are used. In traditional 
FMIPv6 reactive mode, the FBU, HI, Hack and FBack message are transmitted after 
the link layer switching of the MN. The transmission times of those messages 
are included in handover latency of the MN. In the NEMO architecture, the 
expression of the handover latency of the MN which performs traditional FMIPv6 
reactive mode is equal the Eq(6.4). 
  
Where λ denotes the average data packet arrival rate. 
 Similarly, the packet loss of the MN which performs E-FMIPv6 and MIPv6 are 
deriving as following. 
 
In MIPv6, the MN which has performed the link layer switching can not receive the 
data packet before completing theMIPv6 handover procedure. So the packet loss of 
the MN which supports the MIPv6 is expressed as Eq.(6.18). 
 
6.3 Packet Delay 
In this thesis, the packet delay (D) is a time between the MN being permitted to 
receive the data packet and the MN receives the first data packet. In traditional 
FMIPv6 predictive mode, the MN is permitted to receive the data packet after the 
NAR receiving the FNA message. The packet delay may be the transmission time of 
the data packet which is sent from the NAR to the MN＇s NCoA. But the first data 
packet which is forwarded by the PAR through the FMIPv6 IP tunnel may not arrive 
to the NAR when the NAR has received the FNA message. So the packet delay of the 
MN has two possible expressions. If the sum of the link layer switching time, FBack 
message and FNA message transmission time is larger than the transmission time of 
the data packet which is forwarded from the PAR to the NAR, the packet delay of 
the MN is the their difference. Otherwise, the packet delay of the MN is the 
transmission time of the data packet which is sent from the NAR to the MN＇a NCoA. 
In the NEMO architecture, the packet delay of the MN which performs traditional 
FMIPv6 reactive mode is given as 
 
Then the component times are expressed as follows. 
 
The figure 6.1 shows the handover latencies of traditional FMIPv6, proposed 
E-FMIPv6 and MIPv6 in the NEMO architecture. It shows that the handover latencies 
of these schemes increase with increasing the distance between the MR and its HA. 
In these schemes, traditional FMIPv6 reactive mode (FMIPv6-R) and proposed enhanced 
FMIPv6 reactive mode (E-FMIPv6-R) need to transmit more signal messages after link 
layer switching. So the curves of the FMIPv6-R and EFMIPv6R are larger than other 
schemes. On the contrary, traditional FMIPv6 predictive mode (FMIPv6-P) and 
proposed enhanced FMIPv6 predictive mode (E-FMIPv6-P) need to transmit fewest 
signal messages after link layer switching. So the curves of the FMIPv6-P and 
E-FMIPv6-P are lower than others. In FMIPv6-R, the PAR needs to transmit the signal 
messages to the NAR which is an MR through the NEMOBSP IP tunnel. Those transmission 
times of the signal messages would increase with increasing the distance between 
the MR and its HA. Then the curve of FMIPv6-R has larger slope. In E-FMIPv6-R, the 
PAR transmits the signal messages to the NAR directly. So the curve of the E-FMIPv6-R 
is lower than one of FMIPv6-R. 
 
the proposed enhanced FMIPv6 can improve packet loss and packet delay in reactive 
mode. 
 
(七) 結論 
 The MN which supports the FMIPv6 can reduce the handover latency, packet loss 
and packet delay. However, when the MN which supports the FMIPv6 roam in the NEMO 
architecture, the FMIPv6 would lose its benefits. This reason of this problem is 
that the PAR does not know the NAR is an MR. So the data packet sent to the NAR 
from the PAR would be forwarded to the home network of the NAR. This feature would 
make the FMIPv6 lose its benefits. In this thesis, a enhanced FMIPv6 is proposed. 
The PAR would send the data packet to the NAR which is a MR directly in the E-FMIPv6. 
So the handover latency, packet loss and packet delay of the MN do not increase 
with increasing the distance between the MR and its HA in the E-FMIPv6 reactive 
mode. In addition, the packet delay does not increase with increasing the distance 
between the MR and its HA in the E-FMIPv6 Predictive mode. In the NEMO architecture, 
the E-FMIPv6 can not reduce the transmission time of the signal message in 
predictive mode. So the E-FMIPv6 may be usually performed in reactive mode. But 
the E-FMIPv6 in reactive mode, the distance is large enough. The packet loss and 
packet delay of the MN which supports the E-FMIPv6 would be lower than the MN which 
supports the MIPv6. In summary, the E-FMIPv6 can improve the performance of the 
MN roaming in the NEMO architecture. 
 
四、 文獻參考 
[1] Banerjee, N.,WuW., Das S., Dawkins S. And Pathak J. Mobility Support inWireless 
Internet. 
IEEE Wireless Commun., 10(5):54–61, Oct. 2002. 
[2] Devarapalli, V., Wakikawa, R., Petrescu, A., And Thubert, P. Network Mobility 
(NEMO) 
Basic Support Protocol. RFC 3963, January 2005. 
[3] Handley, M., Schulzrinne H. Schooler E. And Roseberg J. SIP: Session Initiation 
Protocol. 
RFC 2543, March 1999. 
[4] Huang, C.M.,Lee, C.H., And Zheng, J.R. A Novel SIP-Based Route Optimization 
for Network 
Mobility. IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS, 24(9), 
SEPTEMBER 2006. 
[5] Johnson, D., Perkins, C., And Arkko, J. Mobility Support in IPv6. RFC 3775, 
June 2004. 
[6] KAFLE, P.V., KAMIOKA E. And YAMADA S. CoMoRoHo: Cooperative Mobile Router- 
Based Handover Scheme for Long-Vehicular Multihomed Networks. IEICE TRANS. 
COMMUN., 
E89-B(10), Oct. 2006. 
[7] Koodli, R. Fast Handovers for Mobile IPv6. RFC 4068, July 2005. 
[8] Kuo, G.S. And Ji K. Mobile IPv6 Extensions to Support Nested Mobile Network. 
International 
Conference on AINA, 1:488–491, 2004. 
[9] Lee, K.J.,Park, J., And Kim, H. Route Optimization for Mobile Nodes in Mobile 
Network 
based on Prefix Delegation. IEEE Proc. VTC 2003, pages 2035–2038, Oct. 2003. 
[10] Ng, C.,Thubert, P., Watari, M., Zhao, F. And Davise, U.C. Network Mobility 
Route Optimization 
Problem Statement. Internet Draft, April 2006. 
[11] Perera, E., Sivaraman, V., And Seneviratne, A. Survey on Network Mobility 
Support. ACM 
Mobile Computing and Commun. Review, 8(2):7–19, April 2004. 
[12] Shin, S., Forte A., Rawat A.S. And Schulzrine H. Reduceing MAC Layer Handover 
Latency 
in IEEE802.11 Wireless LANs. Proc. ACM MobiWac 2004, pages 19–26, 2004. 
