2 
 
摘要 
本計畫之目的在於開發以聚焦式超音波開啟血腦屏障及藥物釋放之臨床前分子影像轉譯
平台建立。技術之建立包括:以 MRI 導引及標定技術開發、以分子影像導引及標定技術開發、
以高頻超音波影像導引及標定開發、以光聲光譜影像導引及標定技術開發，整合聚焦式超音
波開啟血腦屏障技術建立臨床前分子影像轉譯平台。第一部分工作為建立聚焦式超音波開啟
血腦屏障技術及磁振影像之驗證。研究中對大鼠腦部分別施以頻率為 0.6 - 1.5MHz 叢集脈衝
模式之聚焦式超音波，配合不同的輸出功率，分析出可破壞血腦屏障的臨界值。並藉由 Evans 
Blue 標示出血腦屏障開啟的區域，進而以 HE 染色法分析對周圍組織細胞造成之傷害程度。
結果顯示超音波對比劑在使周圍組織無顯著損傷的情況下，可有效降低開啟血腦屏障所需之
輸出功率約 10 倍。同時，我們亦建立一套 MRI 三維影像重建技術來分析並追蹤顱內細胞出
血。實驗動物經聚焦式超音波換能器傳送高能量叢集模式之超音波造成顱內出血後，取得核
磁共振影像下之磁振之磁敏感性加權影像(Susceptibility- Weighted Imaging)出血監控影像，並
以三維影像重健處理方式重建立體影像，並觀察出血範圍的體積與形狀。同時，運用組織學
內病理切片 HE 染色的出血分級結果比對其關聯性。實驗結果發現，運用此方法來重建的影
像與病理切片 HE 染色結果相互吻合。此研究證明了可以運用三維重組方式來重建並定量分
析顱內出血影像的可行性。第二部分工作為建立微氣泡製作及超音波監控血腦屏障開啟技
術。聚焦式超音波配合微氣泡已經被用在增加血腦障蔽通透性的研究上。然而，生物效應例
如紅血球外滲與腦部傷害有可能因為不適當的超音波參數而引發。因此，建立一套即時影像
系統觀察聚焦式超音波誘發血腦障蔽打開時對於生物安全性來說是非常重要的，本研究利用
高頻超音波影像配合微氣泡增強影像來觀察聚焦式超音波誘發血腦障蔽打開時的暫態變化。
結果發現血腦障蔽通透性增加情況下，高能量聚焦式超音波，亮度影像上 5 秒鐘後即可發現
有白點產生，此白點為微血管出血產生的微血塊，若利用微氣泡增強影像觀察則發現白點微
血塊區域會伴隨暫時缺血情況發生，相反的在低能量聚焦式超音波則沒有此情況發生。此研
究結論顯示可以利用高頻超音波影像與配合微氣泡增強影像來觀察聚焦式超音波配合微氣泡
在增加血腦障蔽通透性的安全性問題，例如微血管出血與暫時性缺血。第三部分工作為建立
光聲監控及及超音波監控血腦屏障開啟技術。在此工作中，我們探討了以金奈米桿粒子為基
礎之光聲影像技術於大鼠模型聚焦式超音波誘發血腦屏障開啟監測的可行性。將以可調光吸
收波長之金奈米桿粒子作為光聲光譜造影的對比劑，利用金奈米桿粒子對近紅光的強吸收及
其因奈米尺寸大小而易由血腦屏障開啟區域滲入腦組織的特性，搭配光聲影像技術進行監控
血腦屏障的開啟。實驗結果顯示，以金奈米桿粒子為基礎之光聲顯微影像技術確實可以做為
監控大鼠模型聚焦式超音波血腦屏障開啟位置及變化的新造影工具。 
 
關鍵詞：血腦屏障、高強度聚焦式超音波、金奈米桿、光聲顯微影像技術、微氣泡增強超音
波影像、聚焦式超音波、缺血、核磁共振影像 
 
4 
 
prior to BBB disruption and AuNR injection was taken to mark the signal background. After 
injection, the distribution of AuNRs in rat brains was monitored up to 2 hours. Experimental results 
show that imaging AuNRs reveals BBB disruption area in left brains while there are no changes 
observed in the right brains. From our results, photoacoustic imaging plus AuNRs shows the 
promise as a novel monitoring strategy in identifying the location and variation of 
focused-ultrasound BBB-opening in a rat model. 
 
Keywords: blood brain barrier, high-intensity focused ultrasound, gold nanorod, photoacoustic 
microscopy, magnetic resonance imaging 
 
 
6 
 
(1 mm) between each targeting point. The peak pressure was 1.1 MPa, 2 and 3 times lower than the 
acoustic powers used in the first experiment.  
 
1.2.3. Pathologic Examinations 
Animals were sacrificed approximately 3-4 hours after HIFU sonication. The brains were 
immediately removed and frozen in an O.C.T. compound (Optimal Cutting Temperature compound, 
Tissue-Tek®, SAKURA, USA). The tissues were sectioned in Microtome (Model 3050S, Leica, 
German). The slices were preserved and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). The results 
were classified into 4 categories as described in figure 2, which depends on the level of hemorrhage 
and cell damage. The neuronal cell damage and hemorrhage were evaluated quantitatively by four 
different grades. The grade 0 was defined as neither tissue damages nor erythrocyte extravasations 
were observed after sonication. In grade 1, small extravagated erythrocytes were occasionally 
observed, but H&E staining showed neither neuronal loss nor cell structure changed. In grade 2, 
there is continuous and extensive hemorrhage, accompanied by neuronal loss, or apoptotic cell 
death. Grade 3 observed neuronal cell necrotic death, next to the findings in grade 2. It was the most 
severest damage in tissue. 
 
1.2.4. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)  
After ultrasound sonication, the animals were immediately scanned by MRI. All images were 
acquired on a 3-T scanner (Trio a Tim system, Magnetom, Siemens, Erlangen, Germany) using the 
standard wrist coil with an inner diameter of 13 cm. The animals were placed in an acrylic holder 
and then positioned in the center of the magnet. Images were acquired using a fully flow 
compensated T2*-weighted 3D Gradient Recalled Echo sequence and dynamic contrast-enhanced 
(DCE) T1-turbo-spin-echo sequence. An IV bolus (0.125 mmol/kg) of MRI contrast agent 
(Magnevist®, Berlex Laboratories, Wayne, NJ) was administered through the unilateral jugular vein 
during the dynamic acquisition of the T1-weighted images. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Four categories of cell necrosis and damage induced by focused ultrasound. (a) level 0: 
neither tissue damages nor erythrocyte extravasations were observed. (b) level 1: small extravasated 
erythrocytes were occasionally observed, but H&E staining showed neither neuronal loss nor cell 
structure changed; (c) level 2: continuous and extensive hemorrhage, accompanied by neuronal loss, 
or apoptotic cell death; (d)level 3: the most severeest damage in tissue, neuronal cell necrotic death 
was observed besides findings in level 2. 
 
1.3. Preliminary results  
The area of BBB opening and hemorrhage were confirmed by contrast-enhanced T1-weighted 
MRI. In normal case, MRI contrast agent cannot pass through the BBB into the brain tissue but it 
can be observed in image by MRI scanner once BBB been disrupted and the MRI contrast agent 
leak into brain parenchyma. Figure 3(a) shows that BBB can be disrupted in both power of 
8 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. (a) FUS sonication without SonoVue® (b) FUS sonication with SonoVue® 
 
The BBB disruption threshold was tested next. In the control group (without SonoVue), BBB 
disruption was observed when electric power at least reach 10W (see Fig. 6(A)) and usually 
accompanied unavoidable hemorrhage. In the experiment group (with SonoVue®), it was observed 
that SonoVue® can significantly decrease the power threshold to induce BBB disruption with the 
power threshold down to 0.25W.   
Figure 7 shows examples of H&E (upper row) and TUNEL (lower row) staining at the same 
position. The electric power levels at 1 and 10W. At power level of 1W (Fig. 7b and 7d), the tissue 
was intact without apparent neuronal cell damage nor apoptosis. When the electric power increase 
up to 10W (see Fig. 7a and 7c), it showed that a large-area hemorrhage as well as neuronal 
apoptosis can be observed at the same location. 
Figure 8 systemically compares the BBB disruption efficiency as well as the tissue hemorrhage 
between the two groups under different power level ranging from 0.25 to 20W. Black bars 
represented results observed from control group and gray bars represented results observed from 
experiment group, and “*” represented that BBB disruption was observed. Two important 
observations can be found from Fig. 8. First, the presence of SonoVue® during sonication can 
significantly decrease the BBB-disruption power threshold about 40 fold (from 10W to 0.25W). 
Second, from the comparison of ultrasound-induced damage (mainly hemorrhage) between groups 
1 and 2, administrating the ultrasound contrast agent during the sonication didn’t induce a severer 
brain tissue hemorrhage when the same power was delivered. On the other hand, this finding 
supports that the ultrasound power applied serves as a key factors to induce tissue damage and 
independent of the usage of ultrasound contrast agent.  
 
 
 
Fig. 6. The power threshold lowered by administration of SonoVue® (A) without SonoVue®  (B) 
with SonoVue® 
 
10 
 
BCNU treatment (ISTmedian = 15.7%, p = 0.023). Treatment with FUS before BCNU 
administration both controlled tumor progression (0.05 ± 0.1 cm3 vs. 0.28 ± 0.1 cm3; day 31) and 
improved animal survival (ISTmedian = 85.9%, p = 0.0015). In conclusion, this study demonstrates 
a means of increasing localized chemotherapeutic drug delivery for brain tumor treatment and 
strongly supports the feasibility of this treatment in a clinical setting.  
Focused ultrasound effectively disrupted the BBB in normal rats at pressures ranging from 
0.48 to 1.35 MPa (Fig. 9; all p < 0.05 relative to control). Although the increase in signal intensity 
in T1-weighted images at 0.45 MPa was relatively low (< 10%), at 0.62 MPa the increase in signal 
intensity approached 20%, and increased thereafter as sonication pressure increased. As assessed by 
heavy-T2*-weighted MRIs, no apparent ICH or brain surface hemorrhage occurred when the 
pressure was ≤ 0.62 MPa, whereas in most cases ICH occurred at pressures of ≥ 0.98 MPa.  
 
Fig. 9. (a) Contrast-enhanced T1-weighted (upper) and heavy-T2* weighted (middle) MRIs of rat 
brains sonicated at peak pressures of 0.62 and 0.98 MPa. Arrows indicate the region disrupted by 
FUS. Evans Blue dye (bottom) shows the accompanying ICH caused by the excessive pressure; 
both brain surfaces (prefixation) and brain sections (postfixed) are shown. (b) Normalized signal 
intensity (SI; mean ± S.D.) of contrast-enhanced T1-weighted images from rat brains sonicated at 
peak ultrasonic pressures ranging from 0 (control) to 1.35 MPa. *: p < 0.05: **: Samples showing 
evidence of ICH, as assessed by T2*-weighted MRI. 
 
The effect of FUS-induced BBB disruption on the local concentration of BCNU in normal and 
tumor-implanted brains was then determined (Fig. 10). In normal brains, ultrasound treatment (0.62 
MPa) beforehand increased BCNU concentration in the brain by 340% (from 150 to 513 μg). FUS 
treatment using pressures higher or lower than 0.62 MPa did not improve BCNU deposition beyond 
this level (Fig. 10b). BCNU deposition was therefore quantified in tumor-implanted brains after 
sonication with 0.62 MPa; both tumor-implanted and contralateral hemispheres were examined. The 
tumor-implanted and contralateral sites of unsonicated rats showed BCNU concentrations similar to 
12 
 
can temporarily retard tumor growth. However, this effect was not sustainable, as tumor growth in 
this group progressed to 0.27 ± 0.17 cm3 at day 31. However, in tumor-implanted animals treated 
with both FUS and BCNU, not only was slower tumor progression observed (0.03 ± 0.03 to 0.11 ± 
0.11 cm3 over 7 days; +268%), but the suppressive effect continued beyond the initial period, 
actually decreasing the tumor size to 0.04 ± 0.08 cm3 (p = 0.021 relative to control). Indeed, four of 
the six rats so treated surviving to day 45 showed complete shrinkage of the tumors. 
Figure 13c compares the survival curves among the four treatment groups. In controls, the 
median survival was 28.5 days. FUS treatment alone did not improve animal survival; indeed, there 
was a slight decrease in median survival (25.5 days, ISTmedian = 10%), although this did not 
appear to be statistically significant (p = 0.92). Animals treated with BCNU alone showed a 
promising and significant increase in median survival (33 days, ISTmedian = 15.7%; p = 0.023 
relative to control). However, treatment with both FUS and BCNU produced the most significant 
benefit, increasing the median survival to 53 days (p = 0.0015). Rats from this group were the only 
ones surviving beyond the 60-day MRI follow-up period (2 out of 6 rats). Overall, the results of 
these experiments suggest that the use of FUS to enhance BCNU delivery into brain tumors has a 
better effect on suppressing tumor progression and improving animal survival than the use of either 
treatment alone. 
 
 
Fig. 11. Representative MRIs showing rat brains with induced tumors at day 10. (a, c) presonication; 
(b, d) postsonication. The arrows in the contrast-enhanced T1-weighted MRIs (upper) indicate the 
BBB-disrupted region; the corresponding heavy-T2* weighted MRIs (lower) were acquired 
immediately after the images in the upper panels. 
 
14 
 
 
 
Fig. 14. Hematoxylin-and-eosin-stained sections of rat brains. Tissues were collected for analysis 
from tumor-implanted brains 24 (control; a-c) or 60 (FUS + BCNU; d-f) days after treatment. (a,d) 
whole brain section; (b,e) 4X; (c,f) 10X. 
 
1.5. Summery 
In this part, our current study confirmed that in the proposed strategy (please say explicitely what 
was proposed) the HIFU energy can lead to reduced level of hemorrhage and at the same time 
maintain the efficiency of BBB-disruption. Applications such as drug delivery into the brain can 
therefore be feasible because of increased safety measures.  
 
1.6. References 
1. Mesiwala, A.H., et al., (2002) High-intensity focused ultrasound selectively disrupts the 
blood-brain barrier in vivo. Ultrasound Med Biol, 2002. 28(3): pp. 389-400. 
2. Sun, J. and K. Hynynen, (1999) The potential of transskull ultrasound therapy and surgery using 
the maximum available skull surface area. J Acoust Soc Am, 1999. 105(4): pp. 2519-27. 
3. Hynynen, K., et al., (2005) Local and reversible blood-brain barrier disruption by noninvasive 
focused ultrasound at frequencies suitable for trans-skull sonications. Neuroimage, 2005. 24(1): 
pp. 12-20. 
4. Hynynen, K., et al., (2003) The threshold for brain damage in rabbits induced by bursts of 
ultrasound in the presence of an ultrasound contrast agent (Optison). Ultrasound Med Biol, 2003. 
29(3): pp. 473-81. 
 
2. High-frequency ultrasonic imaging and microbubble fabrication (1st year) 
2.1. Background 
Focused-ultrasound was first developed a half century ago, and has been shown with the 
potential to increase BBB permeability (Patrick et al, 1990; Vykhodtseva et al, 1995). Through the 
intravenous administration of microbubbles, Hynynen et al showed that the BBB can be selectively 
disrupted with a reduced ultrasonic energy exposure, which minimized the brain parenchyma 
damage (Hynynen et al, 2001; Mesiwala et al, 2002; Hynynen et al, 2003; Hynynen et al, 2005; 
McDannold et al, 2005). Therefore, FUS may have benefits for drug delivery to the central nervous 
system (CNS) since it allows local and transient disruption of BBB (Kinoshita et al, 2006; Treat et 
al, 2007). 
Improper sonication of the BBB with FUS may produce unwanted complications. In previous 
works, the most evident effect was the presence of erythrocyte extravasations, mass hemorrhage 
and inflammatory in the brain tissue within sonication areas, as evidenced by light microscopy 
(McDannold et al, 2005; Vykhodtseva et al, 2006; McDannold et al, 2006; Liu et al, 2008; Liu et al, 
16 
 
 
Fig. 15. (a) Picture of the experiment setup; (b) schematic diagram of the imaging beam and fus 
beam. the two transducer were fixed in a parallel arrangement and the focus were at the same depth; 
(c) illustration of the location of FUS targeted region and the imaging plane. Left brain was targeted 
while the right region as a control. 
 
The ultrasound images were acquired using a homemade high-frequency ultrasound scanning 
system described elsewhere (Yeh et al, 2009). Figure 15a shows a photography of the experimental 
apparatus, which consisted of two transducers : a 1 MHz transducer (V302, Panametrics, Waltham, 
MA, USA) used for transmitting sonication pulses and a 25 MHz transducer (V324, Panametrics, 
Waltham, MA, USA) used for imaging. The 2 transducers were arranged paralleled using an 
in-house made holder, with spacing of approximately 34 mm between each other. The focus of 1 
MHz FUS beam and 25 MHz imaging beam were fixed at the same depth (Figure 15B). A 
removable cone chamber filled with degassed and deionized water was mounted on the 1 MHz FUS 
transducer and capped with an ultrasound-permeable membrane. The holder was mounted on a 
stage attached to a computer-controlled 2-D positioning system. The opening was sealed by a 
polyurethane membrane to allow the entry of ultrasound. The rats were placed directly under the 
water reservoir with their heads tightly attached to the membrane window. Ultrasound gel was 
applied between the cranial window and water tank to ensure acoustic coupling. The animal was 
secured on the stereotaxic apparatus with ear-bars and a bite bar. 
 
Fig. 16. Flowchart of experiment procedure for BBB opening and ultrasound imaging in this study. 
 
2.2.2.FUS generation, Calibration and Sonication 
Ultrasound was produced by a single-element FUS transducer (center frequency of 1 MHz). 
Pulses were transmitted by the FUS transducer using an arbitrary waveform generator and a 
radio-frequency power amplifier. The electric impedance of the transducer was matched to the 
18 
 
 
Fig. 17. Size distribution of homemade bubbles. 
 
2.2.4.Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound Imaging 
Figure 16 shows the ultrasonic imaging protocol in the experiments. A sequence of B-mode 
images were obtained with a frame rate of 2 per second for 150 s. The field of view was 4.5 mm 
(depth) × 8 mm (width). Bubble injection via a jugular catheter began at about 10 s after imaging. 
The dose of UCAs was the same as sonication (see last paragraph). The UCAs act as imaging 
indicators at high-frequency ultrasound scanning. The ultrasound image acquired at following time 
points : (1) 20 minutes before sonication, (2) 5 seconds after sonication, (3) 5 minutes after 
sonication, (4) 1 hours after sonication, (5) 2 hours after sonication. 
 
2.2.5. Histology 
A bolus of Evan’s blue (EB, 100 mg/kg) dye was administered intravenously in vivo 5 mins 
before FUS sonication. The stain binds with albumin in the bloodstream and thus was not able to 
penetrate the intact BBB. An increase in BBB permeability could be identified as the leakage of 
Evan’s blue, which appeared as an apparent blue staining in the brain tissue. The animals were 
sacrificed immediately after ultrasonic imaging examinations and then perfused with saline via the 
left ventricle until colorless perfusion fluid appeared from the right atrium, unless for longitudinal 
studies. The brains were removed and fixed in 10% neutrally buffered formalin and then embedded 
in paraffin. The samples were serially sectioned using a slice thickness of 10 μm, with the same 
slice direction as in ultrasound imaging. One of every 50 sections, corresponding to 0.5 mm, was 
preserved and stained with H&E (hematoxylin and eosin). The locations of sonication from 
ultrasound images were correlated with the histology slides, confirmed by their distance from the 
anatomical markers, such as the cerebellum, the cerebrum, and the ventricles. The histology 
evaluations were performed by personnel blinded to the ultrasound parameters but was informed of 
the specific sonication brain side. 
 
2.2.6. Data analyses 
There were four steps in images processing: (1) the acquired radiofrequency (RF) signals were 
aligned by speckle tracking across frames to reduce motion artifacts, (2) a seventh-order Chebyshev 
high-pass filter was used to remove motionless tissue signals over the entire time series of images, 
(3) a threshold was set for eliminating background noise. The images were smoothed by using a 
medium filter with a window size of 3¯3 pixels for improving the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). (4) 
To map contrast replenishment after UCAs injection, the signal intensity in each pixel was summed 
over the time direction. After above process, images were color coded automatically by the software, 
progressing from red through orange, yellow, and white, which represent increasing UCAs intensity 
and are expressed in decibel units. For each injection, region of interest (ROI) of 130¯130 pixels 
20 
 
 
2.3. Results   
2.3.1.Histology Section 
    The BBB disruption was observed in the focal zone of the ultrasound beam with EB 
extravasation. Figure 18A depicts the relationship between the power of sonication and the degree 
of EB staining in the right and left hemispheres with and without sonication. Both the size and color 
intensity of EB staining in the left brain increased with the power of peak-rarefactional pressure. In 
addition, there was no visible EB staining in the nonsonicated right hemispheres brain for the two 
power of sonication used. Application of the higher power induced an extensive brain tissue 
hemorrhage at the sonication site. Conversely, only few areas of erythrocyte extravasations were 
evident in regions of BBB opening after sonication at lower power. Figure 18B illustrates that EB 
extravasation and hemorrhage occurred at the brain surface in response to the sonication power of 
high and low, it being greater clear for the lower dose. 
 
 
Fig. 20. Contrast-enhanced imaging acquired before sonication, within minutes after sonication and 
at 2 h later with different FUS sonication parameters. Right column: corresponding frozen section. 
(A) The lack of perfusion area (arrow) was seen in the ultrasound images immediate following 
sonication. The perfusion was recovery with time.(B, C) There were no obvious different before and 
after sonication in the focal region. The images were acquired horizontal to the direction of the FUS 
beam. 
 
2.3.2. Ultrasound B-mode Imaging 
   Figure 19 shows the B-mode images which were acquired at different time point with different 
sonication condition. Before FUS application, a homogenous brain tissue with no obvious 
hyperechoic spot was observed. At the end of FUS 5 s, a bright spot was observed at the focus of 
FUS (arrow). The region of bright spot persists for 2 h after the cessation of the FUS treatment. The 
frozen section indicates the occurrence of hemorrhage (Figure 19B). The location of the 
hyperechoic spots seems to consistent with the hemorrhage areas in histology mapping. In BBBD 
without hemorrhage and control group, there are no obvious echogenic region between before and 
after FUS exposure (Figure 20A-C).  
    The normalized gray level intensity changes for BBBD with hemorrhage, BBBD without 
hemorrhage and control group at sonication sites were plotted in Figure 20. After sonication, the 
hemorrhage brain showed significant higher intensity change compare with the other group (Figure 
20A). At nonsonication sites, there were no obvious intensity changes between before and after 
sonication (Figure 20B). 
 
2.3.3. Contrast-enhanced ultrasound imaging 
22 
 
2.4. Discussion 
This study indicated that the in-house manufactured UCAs with 1MHz FUS can induce safely 
BBB disruption or the BBB disruption associated with intracerebral hemorrhage by adjusting the 
sonication condition. The integrated FUS and ultrasound imaging system offered not only precisely 
ultrasound-guided targeting FUS irradiation but also almost real-time monitoring after the treatment 
(the time delay approximately 5 s). Besides, we confirmed the feasibility of exploiting high 
frequency ultrasound imaging to observe transient cessation of blood perfusion and blood 
coagulation at the region of exposure. 
The results of our study are comparable with an earlier investigation of monitoring US-induced 
BBB disruption with multiphoton microscopy (Raymond et al, 2007). Accordingly, these authors 
observed locally short-term arteriolar vasoconstriction on FUS exposure that disrupted blood flow 
and lasted up to 5 min in mice model. In our experiment, we used instantaneous ultrasound imaging 
with injection of microbubbles to identify the sonication area and we evaluated if the flow was 
influenced after irradiation. The mild cerebral perfusion reduction caused by sonication at low 
acoustic pressure was also detected by our method (Fig. 22(A)). In addition, we measured stronger 
vasomotor response at the sonication region and compensation blood flow at the contralateral 
hemisphere brain in the same time as using high acoustic pressure (Fig. 22(B)). The level of flow 
decline would be recovered at 1-2 hours. In contrast to previous method, the ultrasound imaging can 
provide larger field of view (FOV) but worse spatial resolution for investigating brain 
hemodynamic change. 
The contrast-enhanced imaging indicated vasoconstriction was persisted at least 150 s to 300 s, 
generating diminish in blood support. Cellular hypoxia damage induced cell death which includes 
necrosis and apoptosis after brief stopping blood flow about 180 s. Others had demonstrated the 
phenotype of cell death after temporary blood vessel occlusion or slowly blood flow was apoptosis 
(Unal-Cevik et al. 2004). Necrosis and early cell membrane disruption would apparent if ischemia 
duration prolong (Nicotera 2000). However, dominant cell death phenotype perhaps be determined 
by the relative speed of each process. Our data present that the histological specimens had a lesion 
of BBBD in the brain parenchyma coincident with the area that lacked perfusion, suggesting that 
the potential cellular injury region could be predicted immediately after the high power FUS 
exposure by contrast-enhanced ultrasonography. 
It is highly like that the bright hyperechoic spot at the FUS sonication region is due to blood 
coagulation. These histological findings revealed the hemorrhagic areas made up the largest portion 
of the lesions, suggested that the brain microvessel and capillaries were rupture by inertial 
cavitation when microbubbles exposure to high intensity ultrasound. The injury vascular led to 
extravasation of red blood cell and bleeding and then induced blood clots and thrombi. Our results 
indicate that location of hyperechoic spots correlates with hemorrhage core within region of 
irradiation. Because the backscattered signal intensity from speckles increase with increasing the 
center frequency of ultrasound, the aggregated blood clot signals seem can be measured by higher 
frequency ultrasound. The brightness spots exist at least 2 h after treatment as the histology 
examines indicated the hemorrhage core. That means ultrasound imaging is a practical method for 
continuously and consistently detecting and monitoring hemorrhage.    
Compare with CEUS and B-mode imaging, we posit that there is a high correlation between 
microhemorrhage and transient ischemia for BBB open by FUS. These data revealed that 
FUS-induced brain damage probably is a progressive process, the hemorrhage was elicited by 
vasoconstriction. The level of vasoconstriction would increase with acoustic pressure at first. 
Finally, strong vessel stimulation induced vascular injury and then promoted hemorrhage. The 
irregular distribution of hemorrhage in exposure site is possible due to the vessels distribution.  
 
2.5. Summary 
   In summary, high amplitude ultrasound with UCAs can be induce several bioeffects, including 
violent vasoconstriction and extensive hemorrhage. The ischemia and hemorrhage occur almost at 
24 
 
Blood Flow & Metabolism  1–10. 
15. Raymond SB, Skoch J, Hynynen K, Bacskai BJ. (2007) Multiphoton imaging of 
ultrasound/Optison mediated cerebrovascular effects in vivo. Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow 
& Metabolism. 27:393–403. 
16. Ichihara M, Sasaki K, Umemura SI, Kushima M, Okai T. (2007) Blood flow  occlusion via 
ultrasound image-guided high intensity focused ultrasound and  its effect on tissue perfusion. 
Ultrasound in Med  Biol 33: 452–459. 
17. Unal-Cevik I, Kilinc M, Can A, Gursoy-Ozdemir Y, Dalkara T. (2004) Apoptotic and necrotic 
death mechanisms are concomitantly activated in the same cell after cerebral ischemia. Stroke 
35:2189–2194. 
18. Nicotera P. (2000) Caspase requirement for neuronal apoptosis and  neurodegeneration. 
IUBMB Life 49:421–425 
19. Howard LP. (2009) Molecular imaging using contrast-enhanced ultrasound:   evaluation of 
angiogenesis and cell therapy. Cardiovascular Research 84: 190–200. 
20. Lindner JR. (2009) Contrast ultrasound molecular imaging of inflammation in cardiovascular 
disease. Cardiovascular Research 84:182–189. 
21. Wilson SR, Jang HJ, Kim TK, Burns PN. (2007) Diagnosis of focal liver masses on 
ultrasonography: comparison of unenhanced and contrast-enhanced scans. J  Ultrasound Med 
26:775–787. 
22. Lindner JR, Paul A. Dayton, Matthew P. Coggins, Klaus Ley, Song J, Ferrara K, Kaul S. (2000) 
Noninvasive imaging of inflammation by ultrasound detection of  phagocytosed 
microbubbles. Circulation 102:531–538. 
23. Lindner JR, Coggins MP, Kaul S, Klibanov AL, Brandenburger GH, Ley K. (2000) 
Microbubble persistence in the microcirculation during ischemia/reperfusion and inflammation 
is caused by integrin- and complement-mediated adherence to activated leukocytes. 
Circulation 101:668–675. 
24. Korpanty G, Carbon JG, Grayburn PA, Fleming JB, Brekken RA. (2007) Monitoring   
response to anticancer therapy by targeting microbubbles to tumor vasculature.  Clin Cancer 
Res 13:323–330. 
25. Palmowski M, Huppert J, Hauff P, Reinhardt M, Schreiner K, Socher MA,  Hallscheidt P, 
Kauffmann GW, Semmler W, Kiesslin F. (2008) Vessel fractions in tumor xenografts depicted 
by flow- or contrast-sensitive         three-dimensional high-frequency doppler ultrasound 
respond differently to antiangiogenic treatment. Cancer Res 68:7042–7049. 
26. Loveless ME, Li X, Huamani J, Lyshchik A, Dawant B, Hallahan D, Gore JC,  Yankeelov TE. 
(2008) A method for assessing the microvasculature in a  murine tumor model using 
contrast-enhanced ultrasonography. J Ultrasound         Med 27:1699–1709 
27. Guibal A, Taillade L, Mulé S, Comperat E, Badachi Y, Golmard JL, Guillou-Buffello  DL, 
Rixe O, Bridal SL, Lucidarme O. (2010) Noninvasive Contrast-enhanced          US 
Quantitative Assessment of Tumor Microcirculation in a Murine Model: Effect of 
Discontinuing Anti-VEGF Therapy. Radiology 254:420–249 
28. Yeh CK, Chen JJ, Li ML, L JJ, Jason Chen JJ. (2009) In vivo imaging of blood flow   in the 
mouse Achilles tendon using high-frequency ultrasound. Ultrasonics 49:  226–230. 
 
3. Gold nanorods and Photoacoustic Imaging (1st year) 
3.1. Background 
 The blood brain barrier (BBB) is well-known for its ability of limiting penetration of 
substances from brain capillaries to central nervous system. This barrier is mainly formed by the 
structure called tight junctions which is composed of endothelial cells in the cerebral microvessels. 
The BBB prevents most currently available chemotherapeutic agents from transmitting into the 
brain tissue and results in the reduction of treatment effect for brain disease. only focused 
ultrasound (FUS) has been demonstrated to be able to disrupt BBB both locally and invasively. In 
26 
 
 
 Prior to applying FUS for BBB opening, the brain was first imaged by dark-field confocal 
PAM. The setup of PAM for the rat brain is shown in Fig. 23. An optical parametric oscillator (OPO, 
Surlite OPO PLUS, Continuum) pumped by a frequency-tripled Nd:YAG Q-switched pulsed laser 
(pulse repetition frequency (PRF): 10 Hz, pulse width: 6.5 ns, Surlite II-10, Continuum) was used to 
provide 800 nm laser pulse. The 800-nm wavelength, an isosbestic point in absorption spectrum of 
hemoglobin, was selected to avoid the effects of blood oxygenation on PAM measurments The 
800-nm laser light was coupled into a multimode optical fiber for the convenience of energy 
delivery. The fiber tip was coaxially positioned with a biconvex lens, a axicon, and a focused 
ultrasonic transducer (center frequency: 25 MHz, -6dB fractional bandwidth: 55%, v324, Olympus) 
fixed in a plexiglass mirror on an optical bench. The transducer was immersed in an acrylic water 
tank with a 3x3 cm2 opening sealed by a piece of polyethylene (PE) thin film at the bottom. The rat 
was immobilized by a custom animal holder with its head attached to the thin film. A layer of 
acoustic gel was smeared between the thin film and the brain to ensure good coupling of ultrasound. 
This optical path for transmitting laser energy from the fiber to the brain formed dark-field 
illumination and make the light be confocal with the ultrasonic transducer. The incident laser energy 
density is smaller than the ANSI safety limit. The 25-MHz ultrasonic transducer offered a -6dB 
axial resolution of 68 um and a -6dB lateral resolution of 171 um for PAM.  
 The optical bench was fixed on a semiautomatic three-dimensional (3D) precision mechanical 
scanner whose x- and y-axis were motorized by the piezoelectric motors (HR8 Ultrasonic Motor, 
Nanomotion) to do a two-dimensional (2D) scanning and z-axis could be manually adjusted with a 
micro-meter. We warmed the rat by a lamp and a heater which was inside the water tank and driven 
by a temperature controller at a constant water temperature to keep its vitality during the scanning. 
An area of 8x5 mm2 was imaged with a step of 120 um in each direction to cover the cranial 
window. The photoacoustic signals received by the transducer were pre-amplified by a low-noise 
amplifier (LNA) and an ultrasonic pulser/receiver (5073PR, Olympus), low-pass filtered (LPF), 
digitized by a 14-bit A/D card (CompuScope 14200, GaGe), and then stored in the PC for further 
processing. The whole scanning process took about 20 minutes for a PAM C-scan when a 4-time 
signal averaging was applied on each single scan line to increase the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). 
 Another high-intensity focused ultrasonic transducer (diameter: 60 mm, radius of curvature: 80 
mm, frequency: 1.5 MHz, electric-to-acoustic efficiency: 70%, Imasonics) was used to induce the 
BBB opening in the rat model. We employed an arbitrary function generator (33120A, Agilent) to 
form the driving signal. The electric signal was amplified by a radiofrequency power amplifier 
(150A100B, Amplifier Research), which energy was monitored by a power meter (Model 4421, 
Bird) before being fed into the transducer. A different acrylic water tank with a 4x4 cm2 acoustic 
window at the bottom was employed for the sonication for BBB opening. The rats were placed 
directly under the water tank with the head tightly attached to the thin-film window. The ultrasound 
contrast agents (SonoVue, Bracco) were injected into the jugular vein to facilitate acoustic 
cavitation. Ultrasound energy was then sequentially delivered into the left-brain at three spots 
separated within the distance of 2 mm along the y-axis (defined in Figure 1), and the center of the 
focal zone was placed at about 3-mm penetration depth under the surface of the brain. For each spot, 
burst-mode ultrasound was used with a burst length of 10 ms, a PRF of 1 Hz, duration of 30 
seconds, and input electric power of 1 W corresponding to acoustic pressure of 1.1 MPa. After the 
sonication, the solution of the PEGylated AuNRs (see Figure 24(a)) with a concentration of 44 nM 
was injected into the rat via the catheter. To confirm the BBB opening distribution region in frozen 
sections, we injected Evens blue dye into the circulation to stain the BBB disruption region. The 
main absorption region of the blue dye is below 700-nm wavelength (see Figure 24(b)) making it 
distinguishable from the AuNRs in PAM. 
 The rats were subsequently anesthetized by isoflurane gas anesthesia with a dose of 1% of pure 
oxygen at 1L/min flow rate in the following procedures. PAM continuously monitored AuNR 
extravasation into BBB opening region for 2 hours.. The Rats were sacrificed after the PAM 
28 
 
 
Figure 26. (a) Pre-scan photoacoustic B-mode image of the rat brain. (b), (c), (d), and (e): 
photoacoustic B-mode images acquired at 33, 55, 84, 114 minutes after the FUS sonication. 
 
3.6. References 
1. Hynynen, K., McDannold, N., Vykhodtseva, and N., Jolesz, F. A., “Noninvasive MR 
imaging-guided focal opening of the blood-brain barrier in rabbits, ” Radiology 220, 640-646 
(2001). 
2. Mesiwala, A. H., Farrell, L., Wenzel, H. J., et al, “High-intensity focused ultrasound 
selectively disrupts the blood-brain barrier in vivo, “ Ultrasound Med Biol 28, 389-400 (2002). 
3. Maslov, K., Stoica, G., and Wang, L. V., “In vivo dark-field reflection-mode photoacoustic 
microscopy,” Optics Letters 30, 625-627 (2005). 
4. Wang, L. V., “Tutorial on photoacoustic microscopy and computed tomography,” IEEE 
Journal of Selected Topics on Quantum Electronics 14, 171-179 (2008). 
5. Link, S., Mohamed, M. B., and El-Sayed, M. A. J., Phys. Chem. B 103, 3073-3077 (1999). 
 
 
 
30 
 
(corresponding to small sample volume); (3) Imaging algorithms development (ex. Time-intensity 
curve, bubble detection): time-intensity based techniques were used to detect microhemorrhage and 
ischemia induced by BBBD; (4) BBB open: animal study and optimize acoustic parameters vs. 
BBB open effect. We also found low MI (mechanical index) to lower brain damage. 
 
However, SonoVue bubbles (larger size bubbles, ~2-4 micron) can not provide the same results 
even increasing the pressure to 2.5 MPa in 10 MHz ultrasound. (as following figures) They are 
good examples and clues for discussing the issue of bubbles stable or inertial cavitation vs. BBB 
opening effect. 
 
   The publication produced from this part includes:  
Journal papers 
1. “Aptamer-conjugated microbubbles for targeted ultrasound molecular imaging” submitted to 
Chemical Communications, 2010. 
2. “Detection of transient ischemia and intracerebral hemorrhage in blood-brain barrier disruption 
by high-frequency ultrasound imaging” submitted to Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & 
Metabolism, 2010. 
3. “Dual-frequency ultrasound for the detection of transient responses in blood-brain barrier 
disruption” (in preparation)  
4. High-frequency ultrasound (>10 MHz) in blood-brain barrier disruption. (in preparation)  
Conference papers 
1. C. H. Fan, P. H. Hsu, H. L. Liu, and C. K. Yeh, "Detection of blood-brain barrier disruption by 
contrast-enhanced high frequency ultrasound image: small animals study," IEEE Ultrasonics 
1/3
國科會補助出席國際學術會議心得報告
2010 年 2月 3日
報 告 人 姓 名電機系助理教授 李夢麟
會議期間及地點 01/23/2010至 01/28/2010美國加州舊金山(San Jose, CA)
會 議 名 稱
中文 : 2010 SPIE國際生醫光學研討會
英文 : 2010 SPIE International Symposium on Biomedical Optics
發 表 論 文 題 目
(1) Reconstruction of photoacoustic tomography with
finite-aperture detectors: deconvolution of the spatial impulse
response
(2) Photoacoustic microscopy of collagenase-induced Achilles
tendinitis in a mouse model
(3) Photoacoustic micro-imaging of focused-ultrasound induced
blood-brain-barrier opening in a rat model
(4) In vivo functional photoacoustic micro-imaging of the
electrically stimulated rat brain with multiwavelength (與交大
趙昌博及陳右穎老師共同指導交大博士班學生: 廖倫德)
與會報告
SPIE International Symposium on Biomedical Optics 2010 (PW 2010/ BiOS
2010)於 2010年 1月 23日至 28日於美國加州舊金山的 Moscone Center 舉行。
此會議涵蓋生醫光學之各領域，從生醫光學物理原理、組織光學、光學治療及診
斷、奈米光學、各式生醫光學影像系統及處理到各種不同影像結合及臨床應用都
有安排議程。本人參加重點為該研討會下的 Conference 7564: Photons Plus
Ultrasound: Imaging and Sensing 2010。此 Photons Plus Ultrasound研討會近幾年因
Photoacoustic imaging (或 Optoacoustic imaging)該領域的蓬勃發展，參與程度相當
踴躍，論文發表數僅次於 BiOS 2010下 OCT研討會，為 BiOS 2010中第二大的
conference，發表論文亦有一定水準，相信與會者皆感到不虛此行。本年度會議
之重點，一樣包括 Biomedical Thermoacoustics及 Photoacoustics，但往年常見的
Acousto-optics 漸漸式微，大致上內容仍相當廣泛而且深入，例如相關的
Translational Research, Small animal imaging, Multimodality imaging, Functional
imaging, Molecular imaging 及相關的影像重建與信號處理都包括在此會議的範
疇。
本實驗室今年有四篇論文報告，主要以壁報形式發表，發表題目 (1):
“Reconstruction of photoacoustic tomography with finite-aperture detectors:
3/3
最後，在這次會議本人獲益良多，最重要的是，確定了主要二個本實驗室應
該重點發展及可能在這競爭領域中爭出頭的方向，在會中更碰到了，工研院電光
所所長詹益仁博士，得知工研院電光所及生工中心未來亦將生醫光電做為主要發
展方向。因為生醫光電所需的設備費往往比一般生醫工程研究的經費來得高，尤
其是適當雷射光源的取得, 希望未來政府、國科會或國衛院能投入大筆經費大力
支持此類具前瞻性的生醫光學影像系統的創新與開發。
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：閻紫宸 計畫編號：98-2218-E-182-008- 
計畫名稱：以聚焦式超音波進行腦部藥物釋放治療之臨床前分子影像轉譯平台建立(1/3) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 3 3 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 5 7 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 7 7 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
