For better differentiation power, the original HMM bit scores were transformed
into Z scores based on the following formula.
In general it was found that the raw scores are proportional to the sequence length
as seen in Figure 1. We further transformed these figures into their slope
representations, in which all HMMER bit-scores were firstly normalized by their
respective sequence length, followed by being converted to Z-scores. The
differentiation power can thus be assessed by looking at the external distance as
shown in Figure 2(a). Such analysis was done on a segment basis (as seen in
Figure 2(b) and 2(c)), that is, the differentiation power was evaluated for every
100-aa segment, with 10-aa overlapping.
The result for segment-based analysis is shown in Figure 3. It seems that the first
2/3 of HA is characteristic to H3 subtype, which agrees well with wet-lab findings
that HA1 is more an antigenicity determinant than HA2 is. H2 in general is similar
to H3, both are somewhat different than H1 in this segment-based analysis. H5
and H7 carry less characteristics to distinguish themselves from the others. On the
other hand, H9 is mostly distinguishable within the entire HA. Biologists can
make diagnosis of influenza subtype by sequencing the HA fragments that are
most suitable for making differentiation among subtypes. The analysis may also
provide locations for molecular targets that are characteristic to a specific subtype.
This method can be easily expanded to NA subtyping, as well as in lineage
(strain-like)-based detection.
This system is online at the URL
http://163.25.101.143:8080/examples/jsp/yngong/Jsp_2/Test/HomePage.htm. A
screen shot is shown in Figure 4.
This work partially fulfilled the graduation requirement for Mr. Yu-Nong Gong
towards his master degree in Computer Science and Information Engineering of
Chang Gung University. This work and related works have been presented in the
following international conferences. Manuscript is currently in preparation.
Chen GW, Gong YN, Shih SR, “Searching of molecular targets for influenza A
virus subtyping using profile hidden Markov models”. Options for the Control 
of influenza VI, Toronto, ON, Canada, June 2007.
Gong YN, Chen GW, “In Silico NA Subtyping of Influenza A Virus using 
profileHidden Markov Models”, 26th American Society of Virology Annual
Meeting, Portland, OR, USA, July 2007.

XZ
Chang Gung University in the summer of 2007. This work has been presented in
the following conferences.
Shih YH, Chen GW, "Signature Identification based on Biological Sequence",
the 6th Asia-Pacific HL7 Conference on Healthcare Information Standards,
Taipei, Taiwan, June 2007.
Chen GW, Jian JW, Gong YN, Shih YH, Chang SC, Tsao KC, Lin TY, Shih SR.
“Mining the Influenza Viral Genome Diversity”. 1st UK-Taiwan International
Networking for Young Scientists Symposium on Infection and Immunity, Taipei,
Taiwan, March 2008.
(2) Accomplishments
The primary goal for this project is to serve as a viral sequence analysis core for the
research of emerging viral infections in Chang Gung University and Chang Gung
Memorial Hospital. Based on this goal, we have achieved the followings:
(1) The two developed online tools can enable many researchers who are not
familiar with computational algorithms, yet still are able to make use of these
technologies. For the first tool–molecular typing of influenza A HA proteins, one
can enter an influenza HA partial sequence and knows which subtype (from a
statistical point of view) this strain belongs to. Through the analysis, one also gets to
know what HA segments are best to differentiate one subtype from the others, that
can serve as a reference to design subtype specific detection methods. For the
second tool–signature identification program, one can easily gather two groups of
sequences of interest that show distinct phenotypes, for example, one group of
symptomatic and the other group asymptomatic. The system quickly tells you what
residues are potentially responsible for such phenotypic disparity.
(2) The collected sequences and the way we have organized them into our own
database can help our collaborators in designing their experiments. These database
schemas and tools can be readily used in investigating other viral agents too when
there is a need.
(3) With this collaborative project, we have successfully established a working
platform between basic/clinical virologists/physicians and computer scientists. We
have trained a number of computer science students to work on viral bioinformatics
and infectious disease informatics. By bringing mathematical computation into this
project, we also demonstrated, to collaborative virologists/physicians a number of in
silico approaches that are useful in basic or clinical virology research towards

Figure 2–(A) Z-score distribution for H3 and non-H3 strains for the entire HA (total
of 48 segments, or 480-aa), (B) for #24 segment (or amino acid positions of 231~330)
with boosted differentiation power, and (C) for #29 segment (or amino acid positions
of 281~380) of no power of differentiation at all.
Figure 3–Our analysis shows that the first 2/3 of HA is characteristic to H3 subtype,
which agrees well with wet-lab findings that HA1 is more an antigenicity determinant
than HA2. H2 in general is similar to H3, both are somewhat different than H1 in this
segment-based analysis. H5 and H7 carry less characteristics to distinguish
themselves from the others. On the other hand, H9 is mostly distinguishable within
the entire HA.
Figure 5–Numerical experiments on how the thresholds vary with the signature
counts. For these RNP genes, it seems that a“steady”signature count exists at a wide
variety of entropy threshold values including 0.4, except for PB1. Similarly, a
“steady”signature count can be observed at entropy 0.4 except for NS1. (Here we
neglected two surface proteins HA and NA due to the difficulties in aligning them
properly for human+avian datasets.) These results suggest using 0.4 (in fact, a range
from approximately 0.3 to 0.5) as entropy threshold can adequately reveal these
signatures.
