2表示兩個actor之間的某種關係（relationship），例如朋友關係、合作關係、資訊傳
遞等等。Social network analysis（SNA）的研究著重在社交網路的結構上的分析，
藉此分析actor的行為在系統結構上的呈現來探討行為模式與行為趨勢，研究整體
的結構如何影響個別的行為以及她們的人際關係，同時，藉由結構分析來探討計
算機科技所應提供與發展的社交平台與其影響。
雖然SNA的發展已超過半世紀以上，但是由於資料的取得不易，通常都局限於
小型群體關係的分析研究；近年來，由於電腦網路科技之迅速發展，人與人的關
係快速的在網路空間上開展，例如，WWW、即時通、email、blog，由於電腦網路
空間的超越時間與空間的特性，這些關係開展的即為迅速，以目前來說WWW上數
以億計的網頁與其之間的連結無疑是這個世界上最大的social network，而這幾年迅
速崛起的部落格（blog, weblog）則是目前最受矚目的社交網路。相較於傳統的
SNA，online data的取得較為容易，這個使得大型社交網路的分析成為可能，而吸
引了計算機科學的研究者開始競相投入。但縱使資料的取得較易，大型社交網路
的分析仍然面臨著許多問題，包括不同來源資料的特性與正確性以及大量資料的
計算問題。
本研究計畫將專注於大型部落格社交網路之分析，在此類演算法之研究上，對
於實際計算效率與理論上的複雜度同等重要，因此，本研究計畫將不只限於理論
分析，也包括實際資料的效率測試，研究目的包括：
1 以網路擷取資料進行大型社交網路分析
2 探索社交網路軟體之現況與問題並嘗試改進行
3 了解大型社交網路所涉及之演算法問題並提出解決方法。
【註】本計劃與「具效率與隱私保護的社會網路分析演算法-以分割為基礎的社群
偵測方法」(98-2221-E-194-027-MY3)因性質相近，故計劃成果合併撰寫。
三、結果與討論
在第一年的計畫執行中，我們主要進行下列三項研究工作：社交網路分析軟
體的現況探討與現有問題調查、嘗試大型社交網路資料擷取與初步分析、連通分
割問題的理論探討；在第二年的計畫中則針對community detection、2-mode
4we show the problem admits a fully polynomial time
approximation scheme. The pseudo-polynomial time algorithm
can be also generalized to the k-partitioning case for fixed
k>2. When the input is restricted to k-connected, we show that
the connected k-partition problem has a linear time
2-approximation algorithm and also admits a FPTAS for any
fixed k.
B. Motivated to approximating the maximum balance connected
partition problem, we investigate the minimum border problem.
Given a biconnected graph G=(V,E) with nonnegative vertex
weight w and two vertices y_1,y_2 in V, the minimum border
problem looks for the minimum weight vertex subset T
containing y_1 and y_2 such that both the subgraphs induced
by T and V-T are connected. In this work, we show the
approximability of the problem: for any e>0, the problem
cannot be approximated with ratio |V|^{1-e} unless NP=P.
【第二年】
1. Generalized club problem:
A. Flow-club: 我們研究如何從社會網路中找出子群體，而在這子群體
中的任兩個成員中的最大流量必須超過一個門檻值。並且定義一個較
嚴謹的具長度限制的流量，也定義兩個組合數學最佳化的問題。並且
證明了其中一個是能在多項式時間找到最佳解，而另一個問題則是
NP-hard。針對這個NP-hard的問題，我們也提出了一個啟發式演算
法，並且去分析這演算法的時間複雜度。最後並在三種模式的隨機圖
上做實驗，並分析它的效能。
B. Influence-club: We notice that the information flow in the real
world is not only along the shortest path. Therefore, we define
6given, as well as polynomial time algorithms for finding such
a path whenever the condition holds.
B. For two vertices s and t in a connected undirected graph G with
positive weights on vertices, the maximum remaining component
is the maximum weight component of G-P for any st-path P. In
this paper, we show a 2-approximation algorithm for the problem.
We also reduce the problem to finding a non-separating path in
a biconnected graph. The reduction also implies a sufficient
condition for the existence of a non-separating path. It is also
shown that solving the problem is helpful for improving the
approximation ratio of the maximum balance connected
bipartition problem. Particularly, for interval graphs, we
show a linear time algorithm for the minimum non-separating
path problem and thereby improve the approximation ratio of the
maximum balance connected bipartition problem from 4/3 to 5/4.
C. A node-weighted grid graph can be thought of as a two
dimensional matrix, in which there exists an edge between two
consecutive nodes in the same row or the same column. The
balanced connected bipartition (BCP_2) problem looks for a way
to bipartition a graph into two connected subgraphs with their
weights as equal as possible. In this paper we present an
O(N\log N) time algorithm for finding the minimum weight
non-separating path between two given nodes in a grid graph of
N nodes, and this result leads to a 5/4-approximation algorithm
for the BCP_2 problem on grid graphs, which is the currently
best ratio achieved in polynomial time. We also developed an
exact algorithm for the problem. Based on the exact algorithm
and a scaling-and-rounding technique, we show an approximation
8that a famous member can pull up the popularities of the ones with
less popularity in his/her group.
3. On the maximum locally clustered subgraph and some related
problems: (two results)
A. Motivated by detecting false friend links in online social
networks, we define two optimization problems based on the
balance theory for structural transitivity in social networks.
We give a polynomial time algorithm for one problem and show
the NP-hardness of the other. For the NP-hard problem, we show
some polynomial time solvable cases and give a 2-approximation
algorithm for a restricted version. We also propose a heuristic
algorithm for a more general version of the problem.
B. A Structural Approach for Finding Real-Friend Links in Internet
Social Networks： We propose a method of structural analysis
for detecting true/false friend links in Internet social
networks. By the balance theory in social science and observed
user behaviors, we define two graph optimization problems. We
examine the computational complexities and develop algorithms.
We show that one of the problems can be solved in polynomial
time while the other is NP-hard. For the NP-hard problem we also
design exact and heuristic algorithms for it. To show the
efficiency of the algorithm, experiments on random graphs were
performed. More importantly, to show the effectiveness of the
new model, we perform experiments on random graphs which
simulate the behavior on Internet social networks. We show the
precisions/recalls of both true and false edges. The
experimental results show that our algorithms have good
precisions and recalls and are efficient for moderate data.
10
bipartition problem on grid graphs: For a given graph with
nonnegative weights on nodes, the max-min connected bipartition
problem looks for a way to partition the graph into two connected
subgraphs such that the minimum weight of the two subgraphs is
maximized. In this paper, we give a 7/6-approximation algorithm
with time complexity $O(N\log N)$ for grid graphs, in which $N$
is the number of nodes. The approximation ratio is currently the
best result achieved in polynomial time.
7. A note on approximating the min-max vertex disjoint paths on
directed acyclic graphs: This paper shows that the FPTAS for the
min–max disjoint paths problem on directed acyclic graphs by Yu
et al. (2010) can be improved by a rounding and searching
technique.
四、計畫成果自評
在三年的計畫中，我們進行社會網路分析之研究工作並已獲得多項成果，同
時也進行相關人員的訓練工作並撰寫論文。成果總結如下：
期刊發表論文：
1. An optimal algorithm for the maximum-density path in a tree, Information Processing
Letters, 109(17), 975-979 [SCI]
2. A note on approximating the min-max vertex disjoint paths on directed acyclic graphs.
Journal of Computer and System Sciences, online doi:10.1016/j.jcss.2010.08.012 , [SCI]
研討會發表論文：
1. B.Y. Wu and H.-C. Chen (2009/4), The approximability of the minimum border problem, in
Proceedings of the 26th Workshop on Combinatorial Mathematics and Computation Theory,
Taiwan
2. C.-P. Yang, H.-C. Chen, S.-D. Hsiea and B.Y. Wu (2009/11). Heuristic Algorithms for
finding 2-clubs in an undirected graph, NCS 2009, Taiwan.
3. B.Y. Wu and H.-C. Chen (2010/4), Sufficient conditions for the non-separating paths, in
Proceedings of the 27th Workshop on Combinatorial Mathematics and Computation Theory,
Taiwan (Best paper award)
4. Y.C Liu and B.Y. Wu (2010/5), Algorithms for the similarities in 2-mode social
12
14
圖二
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳邦一 計畫編號：97-2221-E-194-064-MY3 
計畫名稱：大型社交網路分析之演算法研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 60%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 8 6 60% 
篇 
兩個計劃之共同
成果 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 10 10 100% 每年 3至 4人 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 4 60% 兩個計劃之共同成果 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 2 60% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
