developed into dendrites or axons. 
Cell adhesion is the fundamental 
property that influence differentiation(Zhu, 
Bao et al. 2000). Cell adhesion promote the 
expanding of filopodia and lamellipodia. 
Maintenance of adhesion is necessary for 
nurite spreading and advancing(Steketee and 
Tosney 2002). 
The purpose of this study was to 
quantitatively investigate the effect of cell 
differentiation on cell adhesion force under 
different induction treatments. We used 
cytodetachment technique to measure the 
adhesion of PC12 cells which were induced 
into sympathetic neuron featured with axons 
and dendrites. The induced model was 
achieved by CoCl2 (Kotake-Nara, Takizawa et 
al. 2005) or NGF(Greene and Tischler 1976). 
Based on the literature reviews, the HIF-1α 
were underlined to play the major role in the 
induced pathway. Therefore, we quantify this 
protein in each models by immunofluorescent. 
We wonder whether this transcription factor 
bridge the cell adhesive behavior and the 
differentiation or not. 
 
Methods 
Normal, NGF or CoCl2 treatment 
models 
The PC12 cell line is oriented From American 
Tissue Type Culture Collection (ATCC; 
CRL-1721). We grew PC12 cells in 37°C、5% 
CO2 incubator and bathed in RPMI1640 
medium with a defined set of additives 
including 10% horse serum and 5% fetal 
bovine serum and 100 units/ml penicillin and 
100 μg/ml streptomycin, pH value was 
adjusted to 7.3±0.1. 
To induce PC12 cells, we seeded the cells 
loosely in each 3.5 cm PLL coated dish and 
the cell density was about 1000 cells/μl. After 
12 hours of normal culture, the 200μM CoCl2 
(Sigma) or 200μM NGF (Sigma) contained 
culture medium were prepared and then 
substituted the normal medium. The CoCl2 or 
NGF treatment affected PC12 cells for 24 hr 
and replaced by the normal RPMI medium. 
Again, put the dishes back to the incubator for 
another 12 hours. 
Cytodetachment 
The result of cytodetachment was 
presented as Force-Time figure (Fig. 4). The 
peak value (Point B at Fig. 4) is defined as 
maximum adhesion force in microNewton. 
The integrated area A-B-C-A  is defined as 
the total work that demanded to detach a 
single PC12 cell. Referring to the published 
paper(Yamamoto, Mishima et al. 2000) we 
defined the summation area A-B-D-A as 
deformation work and B-C-D-B  as adhesion 
work. 
Immunofluorescent staining 
Three preparing models were fixed by 
4% paraformaldehyde in PBS for 5 min at 
room temperature and then incubated for 10 
min with PBS containing 1% Triton X-100. 
Wash the dishes in PBS twice. Incubated cells 
with 10% HS in PBS for 1 hr in room 
temperature to block unspecific binding of the 
antibodies. Incubated cells in the HIF-1 α 
antibody (1:100) and Rhodamine phalloidin 
(1:200) diluted by PBS for 2 hr at room 
temperature in dark. Decant the solution and 
wash the cells twice in PBS. Incubate cells 
with the diluted FITC antibody (1:200) and 
for 1 hr at room temperature in dark. Pour out 
the solution and wash the cells twice in PBS. 
Incubate cells on DAPI (1:2000) for 10 min in 
dark, and then rinse with PBS twice. Mount 
dishes with a drop of mounting medium to 
prevent drying and movement under 
microscope. The samples were stored in dark 
at 4°C (Fig. 7). 
     
Results and Discussion 
Both CoCl2 and NGF treatments 
caused morphological changes 
Our results showed both the CoCl2 and 
NGF can cause significant morphological 
change in cell area, cell roundness and neurite 
outgrowth ratio (Fig. 1 and Fig. 3). If we 
extended the treatment time to 48 hr, the NGF 
group kept growing the neurites while CoCl2 
group ceased protruding processes (Fig. 2). 
NGF increased cell adhesiveness while 
CoCl2 decreased it 
The cell adhesion forces, as well as the 
detaching work, were enhanced only in the 
NGF group (Fig. 5 and Table. 1). As we 
eliminated the effects of cell size by normalize 
the detachment force to the cell adhesive area, 
the normalized force and total work of CoCl2 
group were significant lower than the control 
set (Fig. 5, Fig. 6 and Table. 1). CoCl2 was 
known to have dual function: it can induce 
neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells or mimic cell 
hypoxia condition which cause cell damage or 
adhesive shear force and cell 
detachment energy." J Biomed Mater 
Res 50(2): 114-24. 
Zhu, C., G. Bao, et al. (2000). "Cell mechanics: 
mechanical response, cell adhesion, 
and molecular deformation." Annu 
Rev Biomed Eng 2: 189-226. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 PC12 cell neurite outgrowth models 
with control set(a-b), CoCl2(c-d) and 
NGF(e-f) 
 
 
Fig. 2 Prolonged record for 48 hr for CoCl2 
and NGF treatments 
 
 
Fig. 3 geometry parameters of each 
treatments. 
 
Fig. 4 The force-time figure 
Point A is the beginning of cell-AFM 
probe contact. Point B showed the 
equilibrium between the applied force 
and cell-substratum adhesiveness. Point 
C is the end point of the whole process 
and the tip return to the origin point 
theoretically. 
 
 
Fig. 8 The composition of total work in each 
group 
 
 
 
研討會，研究主題分四個領域，細胞力學(Cell Mechanics)，受機械力刺激的細胞反應(Cell 
Response to Mechanical Stimulation)，細胞工程(Tissue Engineering)和計算生物力學
(Computational Biomechanics)。主辦單位是日本東北大學，因此東北大學 Global COE 
program of the “Global Nano-Biomedical Engineering Education and Research Network 
Centre”特別邀請筆者就台灣的微奈米生物力學研究進行專題演講。 
 
二、 與會心得 
此次會議主題包括微奈米生物力學(Micro & Nano Biomechanics)、人體動作力學及平
衡(Human Dynamics & Stability)、骨骼肌肉力學(Musculoskeletal Mechanics)、骨科復健生
物力學(Orthopaedic & Rehabilitation Biomechanics)、人工臟器&植入物(Artificial Organs & 
Implants)、計算生物力學(Computational Mechanics)、機械分析和應用(Mechanical 
Analysis & Its Application)。其中微奈米生物力學、骨科復健生物力學和骨骼肌肉力學主
題佔有最大比例，可見生物力學研究主要方向已邁入微奈米層級，因此國內在細胞及組
織工程之研究，及延至基因工程，生物力學在在扮演著重要角色。在國內未來生物醫學
工程之研究之規劃及人才培養方面皆必須加以調整及注意。 
日本在生物工程之研究參與學者之多，投入之人力與資源是我國望塵莫及者。此次
國人團隊參加此國際會議人數眾多，除了增加我國在國際會議之參與率和曝光率外，更
可促進國際學術之交流，台灣的生物力學研究在亞太地區已佔舉足輕重的地位。 
有關微奈米生物力學研討會，每位研究計畫主持人皆自己上台報告過去三年多的豐
碩研究成果，從單一細胞力學，機械力刺激的細胞反應，以至組織工程及計算生物力學，
研究非常深入。尤其微奈米層級的實驗設備開發架設，令人印象深刻，更難能可貴，乃
結合全日本 13 位傑出主持人的研究計畫的補助與進行，令人讚嘆，其成果並以英文編撰
成書在全世界發行，共已發行了四冊，這是值得我們學習效法之處。 
 
三、 考察參觀活動 
11 月 7 日下午大會安排郊遊及晚宴，郊遊則是至明治神宮，它是紀念明治天皇的功
德所建立，其南北參道相匯之處聳立的大鳥居高 12 米，寬 17 米，支柱直徑 1-2 米，是
日本最大的木製鳥居。隨後參觀 Miraikan (National Museum of Emerging Science and 
Innovation)，介紹二十一世紀推動的創新尖端科技，資訊科技與社會，生命科技與人類，
及地球環境與新領域的未來挑戰與發展，這對年青學子的培養深具教育的功能，是值得
ㄧ遊之處。晚上則至台場附近的大江戶漫聚物語泡湯，體驗江戶時代古街風貌及昔日古
風情景，晚宴則是享用河豚大餐，給參加者留下既濃厚及深刻的記憶。  
 
四、 建議事項 
國科會正推動規劃生物醫學工程研究，細胞/分子基因工程乃當今重要急待發展之方
向，它亦屬奈米科技層級，應多鼓勵與支持。 
 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           97 年 7 月 30 日 
報告人姓名 蘇芳慶 服務機構
及職稱 
國立成功大學醫學工程研究所
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2008.07.22-2008.07.28 
美國匹茲堡 
本會核定
補助文號
計畫編號: 
NSC 96-2221-E-006-252 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第十六屆國際生醫力學會議  
(英文) VXIth International Conference on Mechanics in Medicine and Biology)
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) (1)輪椅推動時上肢生物力學分析 
(2)第一個是不是輪椅推動時上肢生物力學分析 
 (英文) (1) Biomechanics of Upper Extremity during Wheelchair Propulsion 
(2) In vivo mechanical properties of rat sciatic nerve during movement 
of the lower limb 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
第十六屆國際生醫力學會議(ICMMB‐16)由匹茲堡大學生醫工程系(Department  of 
Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh)所主辦，大會主席為匹茲堡大學任教的成功大學
傑出校友洪鼎侃(Tin‐Kan Hung)教授和 Savio Woo以及 Harvey Borovetz、參加的學者代表
主要來自美國、台灣、日本、加拿大、紐西蘭、新加坡、香港、中國大陸等。第 13 屆
會議由筆者在台南成功大學主辦，本次筆者受邀擔任 International Scientific Committee
以及 keynote speaker。此次大會安排的論文主題包含系統、器官、組織、細胞、分子層
級領域， 共有一百餘人代表共襄此一盛會，其中台灣代表約有十人。 
筆者於 7 月 22 日和本校 孫永年副院長由台灣高雄小港機場出發於同日半夜抵達。
23 日參觀匹茲堡大學生醫工程系實驗室，包括世界著名的 Musculoskeletal Research 
Center，下午即有兩場專題演講(plenary lectures)，分別是生物力學發展及展望和心臟血
管醫療器材研發的演講，隨後並進行歡迎晚會。此會議的安排有 3 個 parallel sessions。
24-25 日分別有三場邀請演講，筆者受邀請於 7 月 25 日早上 8:35 給 keynote Lecture，講
題 Biomechanics of Upper Extremity during Wheelchair Propulsion，介紹主要輪椅後輪傾角
對於手推力、上肢關節受力、以及肩關節肌肉出力之影響。不僅與世界著名學者交流，
亦讓他們了解我們的研究成果。另外 25 日下午亦口頭宣讀“in vivo mechanical properties 
of rat sciatic nerve during movement of the lower limb”，獲得熱烈回響。本此研討會除了聆
聽各領域的論文發表外，在會場也認識了不少各國學者專家，藉此機會交流溝通，討論
研究心得，各國學者亦對成功大學有所認識。 
因位第一次參訪匹茲堡，筆者於 26 日則參觀 Carnegie Mellon University 和
University of Pittsburgh，27 日搭班機返台，因為氣候因素班機無法由匹茲堡起飛至
Newark，以致無法銜接 Newark 到香港班機，只好等待晚上先飛至 Newark 過夜，延續
一天 28 日搭原班機經香港，再轉機於 29 日半夜返高雄。 
