2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
波動增大現象在瘋狗浪及暴潮等海洋災害之應用研究(3/3)
Wave Amplification and its Applications in Freak Wave,Storm Surge and other
Oceanic Disasters
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-110-121
執行期限：95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日
主持人：陳冠宇 國立中山大學海洋物理研究所
計畫參與人員：張孟挺 國立中山大學海洋物理研究所
簡孝清 國立中山大學海洋物理研究所
王啟盟 國立中山大學海洋物理研究所
Abstract
Traditionally, an edge wave is measured along a long and straight coast with a couple of pressure gage
arrays to acquire the frequency-wavenumber dispersion relation. Ideal measurement locations are
limited; besides, the cost of purchasing and operating some 20 instruments is also a threshold
requirement to the measurement of edge waves in both field and laboratory. In the present study,
flow-pressure relations for both infragravity edge and leaky waves are given. The relation for edge
wave is helpful in identifying the edge wave mode, while the relation for leaky wave can eliminate the
possibility of incorrectly interpreting a leaky wave as an edge wave. Unlike the dispersion relation, the
analysis of these two flow-pressure relations needs only a single instrument and can be applied in an
irregular coastline. Therefore, edge wave observation becomes easier and cheaper, and discerning
wave evolution along an irregular coastline is made possible. The method is tested in a numerical
Boussinesq wave model where edge waves are simulated and a time series of surface elevation and
depth-averaged flow are generated. Finally, a field measurement on the east coast of Taiwan is used to
show that the present approach can be applied in the real ocean.
1. Introduction
Edge waves play an important role in the formation of crescentic bedforms (Bowen and
Inman, 1971) and have been shown to be related to rip current formation (Bowen, 1969)
and harbor resonance (Chen et al. 2004) in previous studies. Field measurements, however,
are very rare.
In the infragravity frequency studies, edge waves comprise a major part of water surface
fluctuation as do leaky waves (Munk et al. 1964). One important feature of edge waves is
that they are trapped nearshore and hence their amplitude decays exponentially in the
cross-shore direction. On the other hand, leaky waves are plane waves and the amplitude is
quite uniform in the lateral direction.
However, the exponential-decay feature alone cannot be used to identify the existence of
edge waves: a leaky wave also decays offshore due to shoaling. Besides, the standing wave
composed of both incident and reflected leaky waves is a Bessel function with oscillating
amplitudes; the location of nodes and antinodes is close to that due to a higher mode edge
wave. Therefore, measurement along the cross-shore direction is insufficient for detecting
4can be represented by a simple balance between local acceleration and the pressure
gradient:
1
.u p
t 
  


(1)
For waves propagating along the y-axis, specific Fourier components of dynamic
pressure and y-velocity are both proportional to exp(iky-it); hence, equation (1) can be
written as
P V
k
 (2)
where the capital quantities V and P are the amplitude of y-velocity and pressure variation,
the water density,  the angular frequency and k the wavenumber. Therefore, for an
infragravity wave, the pressure amplitude is proportional to the velocity in its propagation
direction. The proportionality constant includes the phase velocity /k which depends on
the dispersion relation of the specific water wave.
2.2 The Flow-Pressure Relation for Leaky and Edge Waves
For an infragravity leaky wave, the wavelength is much longer than the water depth.
Its phase velocity is exactly the shallow water celerity gh , where h is the average water
depth, and the maximum velocity is in the wave direction y. Hence, the pressure amplitude
is related to the maximum velocity through
P V gh V
k
   (3)
On the other hand, an edge wave propagating along the shoreline has a different
dispersion relation than the leaky wave (see Eckart, 1951 or Mei, 1989). Substituting the
dispersion relation, the momentum equation in the longshore y-direction, equation (2), can
be further simplified and a different relation between the pressure amplitude and the
velocity in its propagation direction is obtained:
(2 1) (2 1)
2
gs n gs n
P V V TV
k
  
 
    (4)
where s is the constant bottom slope, T is the wave period and the integer n is the mode
number. That is, for an edge wave of mode n propagating alongshore, the pressure is
proportional to the product of period T and longshore velocity V.
It should be noted that the dispersion relation of edge wave used in both equations (3)
and (4) is based on the shallow water equation which is a very good approximation for
infragravity waves in the nearshore area where the measuring instrument is usually
deployed. In case a measurement is done in the deep ocean, the modified dispersion
relations can be found in textbooks like Mei (1989).
2.3 Apply Flow-Pressure Relations in Edge Wave Measurement
The theory of the previous sections provides a method for identifying infragravity edge waves;
only the amplitudes of each Fourier component for observed pressure and longshore flow are
needed. A diagram with the product of period and longshore velocity as the horizontal axis,
and the pressure as the vertical axis, can be used to identify edge waves.
In the following, a numerical simulation of a Stokes edge wave is first generated on a
21( ) 2u u u p u u
t


      

    
6Figure 2 shows, a Stokes edge wave dominates the nearshore oscillation in the simulated
wave field.
Subsequently, it is advisable to check for the possibility that a leaky wave has been incorrectly
interpreted as an edge wave.
A plane leaky wave has its maximum flow velocity in the wave direction. Hence, instead of
the longshore flow used in Fig. 2, the flow in the direction of maximum 2 2u v is used in
the present wave analysis. With the maximum flow velocity being the horizontal axis and the
pressure the vertical axis, a straight line is plotted on the diagram based on the theoretical
result for a leaky wave (3). The local water depth is used in determining the slope of the line;
different depths correspond to different line slopes. Plotting the amplitudes of each Fourier
component for observed pressure and maximum flow on the same diagram makes it possible
to decide whether the observed oscillation is a leaky plane wave. In Figure 3(a), the
observation is far from the theoretical line for plane waves, and therefore, the presence of a
leaky wave is excluded. In Figure 3(b), the theoretical lines for the first three edge wave
modes are also added to show that, although there is some discrepancy between the numerical
simulation and the exact edge wave due to discretization, the existence of edge wave is
evident. Following the procedure above, the flow-pressure relation is shown to be useful in
the investigation of edge waves.
3.3 The Flow-Pressure Relation in Field Observations
Recently, the Center of Harbor and Marine Technology (CHMT) measured both pressure and
flow for months near the entrance of Hua-Lien Harbor on the east coast of Taiwan; the
locations of the three stations are shown in Figure 4. The operation of Hua-Lien Harbor has
long been disturbed by typhoon waves even when the typhoon is one thousand kilometers
away. This amplified oscillation inside the harbor has been explained by resonance induced
by infragravity edge waves (Chen et al. 2004) and hence the CHMT measurements are
important in clarifying the importance of edge waves.
Assessing the measurement files, the north and south stations (n and s) are much closer to
the shoreline than the main station (m) and hence provide more useful field data for analyzing
waves trapped along the shore. The pressure and flow velocities are recorded twice a second
and there are 2048 successive records in each half hour. A time series example of pressure and
the eastward and northward flows is given in Figure 5.
The observed flow-pressure relation in the infragravity range shown in Figure 6
demonstrates the existence of edge waves: in Fig. 6(b) the observed pressure is proportional
to the product of period T and longshore velocity V, while in Fig. 6(c) the pressure is much
larger than the theoretical value computed from the maximum velocity; the observation is far
from the line for plane waves. These diagrams provide a solid evidence for the existence of
edge waves outside Hua-Lien Harbor.
4. Discussion
In order to test its accuracy and feasibility, the approach proposed in section 2 is applied to a
numerical edge wave simulation over idealized bathymetry. Then field measurement is used
to show that this approach can be applied in the real ocean.
The present flow-pressure approach needs only a single instrument and hence makes it much
easier and cheaper to measure edge waves. If there is more than one instrument, the evolution
of an edge wave can be traced along the coast even for an irregular coastline. By contrast, the
traditional frequency- wavenumber approach can only be applied on a straight beach and
hence edge wave measurement is very rare. Extension of the present approach, hence, will
greatly improve the availability of edge wave information.
Although it can be applied in irregular coasts where the traditional frequency- wavenumber
8Sheremet, A., R. T. Guza, S. Elgar, and T. H. C. Herbers [2002] “Observations of
nearshore infragravity waves: Seaward and shoreward propagating components,”J.
Geophys. Res., 107(C8), 3095, doi:10.1029/2001JC000970.
Sheremet, A.,R. T. Guza, T. H. C. Herbers [2005] “A new estimator for directional
properties of nearshore waves,” J. Geophys. Res., 110, C01001,
doi:10.1029/2003JC002236.
Figure 1. The instantaneous surface elevation of the wave field simulated over an idealized
constant slope bathymetry.
10
(a)
12
Figure 5. The time series of pressure (upper figure), eastward and northward flow (middle
and lower figures) measured at station s.
Paper No. 2005-JSC-200 Chen 14
計畫成果自評
1. 研究內容與原計畫相符程度：本研究內容與原
計畫相符。
2. 達成預期目標情況: 本研究之進度大致與預
期目標相符。
3. 研究成果之學術或應用價值: 發展一新的分
析方法；新方法較傳統方法適用範圍更廣，也可大
幅節省儀器數量。
4. 是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 :已投
稿。
表 Y04
際的學者，如發表論文時提問的兩位 Prof. Rosada，曾應邀來台的 Prof. P.L.-F. Liu，Prof. N. Hashimoto，
Prof. J.J. Lee，Prof. H. Yeh，Dr. Tomita 等。
2. 日本學者如 PARI 的 Dr. Tomita、Mr. Honda、Dr. Nagai、Dr. Kuriyama、Dr. Takahashi，Osaka University
的 Prof. Deguchi、Prof. Araki 等，韓國學者如 Prof. Choi 等又再次碰面，中國大陸的學者反而少見，十
分特殊。
3. 海嘯與暴潮皆吸引許多聽眾，顯示相關議題受到矚目的程度。
三、考察參觀活動
9 月 5 日考察參觀 Scripps Institute of Oceanography (SIO)之波浪浮標率定與簡報
9 月 6 日考察參觀 ADCP 製造公司 RDI
四、建議
1. 國際海岸工程會議會議水準甚高，且對台灣甚友善，國家科學委員會可鼓勵學者出席並發表，
對學術交流有幫助，也對提升我國在國際學術會議的影響有幫助。
2. 中國大陸近年來主辦國際會議十分積極，如 2007 APAC 海岸會議會議由南京主辦，2010 國際海
岸工程會議會議由上海主辦，台灣應妥為預備。
3. 海嘯與暴潮受到相當矚目，國內應投入更多人力進行研究。
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
ICCE 2006 Abstract
附錄：發表之論文 Calculation of Infragravity Edge Wave along a Long and Straight Coast
表 Y04
an infragravity edge wave which is only a few kilometers, a constant slope is a better representation for Hua-Lien coast. Therefore, we choose the
theory of Lippmann et al. (1997).
The first attempt to predict infragravity wave is Symonds et al. (1982) who let the breaking point vary and serves as a wavemaker. This approach
is extended to three diemnsion by Lippmann et al. (1997). In these two theories, the surf zone forcing is obtained by assuming saturated wave
condition and this is justified only when Iribarren number, or the surf similarity parameter, is less than 0.5. Therefore, we also have to
check the surf similarity parameter or Iribarren number.
Hua-Lien coast has 1/25 bottom slope near the shoreline and typical offshore wave height is 3m for higher in typhoon period. Typical offshore
wave period is 12 sec; hence, deep water wavelength is approximately 200 m. Therefore, Iribarren number is 0.3 or less, the 0.5 criteriun is satisfied,
and spilling breakers and saturated surf zone typically occur. The wave amplitude inside the surf zone then can be asasumed to be proportional to the
water depth only:
Combining continuity and momentum equations will result in a single equation for the infragravity wave surface elevation (Mei and Benmoussa,
1984):
Following Bowen and Guza (1978) and Holman (1981), Lippmann et al. (1997) consider the temporal growth of infragravity edge waves and
assume the amplitude a function of time. Exact resonance is also assumed so that the break point varies at the same temporal and spatial periods as
an infragravity edge wave. To use the orthogonality of the cross-shore structure, the inner product is taken to explicitly derived the surf zone forcing F
by assuming saturated wave condition.
However, comparing the theoretical growth rate with the experiment by Bowen and Guza (1978), Lippmann et al. (1997) concluded that this
theoretical value is an order larger than the experimental value, and proposed a damping to explain this difference. In the next section, this difference
will be explained based on the assumption of exact resonance.
3 Exact resonance assumption
Lippmann et al. (1997) assumed exact resonance and the break point varies at the same temporal and spatial periods as an infragravity edge
wave.
In the experiment of Bowen and Guza (1978), the alongshore velocity of the incident wave is exactly the group velocity of first mode edge wave.
Lippmann et al. (1997) thus think the exact resonance condition satisfied.
However, if we consider the situation in more detail, we note that for edge waves, the group velocity is just half of the phase velocity. The phase
relative to an edge wave group is always changing. Therefore, if the forcing moves at the group velocity, it will reinforce edge wave at some time but
reduce the edge wave height when the phase is changes to be opposite to the forcing.
Another way to see this phase difference is to consider the alongshore periodicity. The break point varies at the same temporal period as some
infragravity edge wave, but its spatial period is just half of edge wave’swavelength. That is why the experiment of Bowen and Guza (1978) gives a
growth rate an order less than the theory
The above discussion demonstrates that if there is no exact resonance, the growth rate will be much less than the prediction of the theory.
However, to most engineering purposes, an order-of-magnitude accuracy is good enough. For example, in the case of Hua-Lien harbor, the result of
this theory is used to compare with the infragravity component of field measurement which has only order-of-magnitude accuracy since the reflective
and bound waves cannot be accurately estimated.
4 Edge wave mode generated
In laboratorial and numerical experiments, plane infragravity wave can easily generate edge waves of the same period by oblique incidence in
Hua-Lien area. However, only the lowest Stokes mode tends to exist for infragravity edge waves of 140-160 seconds: As the figure shows, some
energy is trapped by the coast and seperated from the original plane wave. The flow-elevation relation shows that the flow at the wave crest is similar
to the wave velocity, the flow at the trough is opposite to the wave velocity. Furthermore, onshore flow occurs behind the crest while offshore flow
is behind the trough. Theses features are exactly similar to Stokes edge wave.
We can also identify a Stokes edge wave by the dispersion curve based on bottom slopes 1/30 and 1/20. These slope variations are consistent
with the sea chart.
0 0/ /s H L
2
2
1
xx yx xy yyg h g h S S S St x x y y x x y y x y
  

                                               
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
2006 年 9月 13 日
報告人姓名 陳冠宇 服務機構
及職稱
國立中山大學海洋物理研究所助
理教授
時間
會議
地點
2006 年 9月 3日~8 日
美國 聖地牙哥
本會核定
補助文號
計畫名稱: 波動增大現象在瘋狗浪及暴
湖等海洋災害之應用研究(3/3)
NSC95-2611-E-110-001-
會議
名稱
(中文) 2006年國際海岸工程會議
(英文) International Conference on Coastal Engineering (ICCE) 2006
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 長直海岸亞重力邊緣波之計算
(英文) Calculation of Infragravity Edge Wave along a Long and Straight
Coast
報告內容：
一、參加會議經過
8 月 23 日：與 NOAA Dr. H.S. Chen 討論波動研究遭遇之問題。
8 月 28 日~9 月 1 日：訪問 Scripps Institute of Oceanography (SIO)，與 Dr. Centurion 討論 internal wave in
South China Sea 與 flux of Luzon Strait 等問題，並與 Dr. X. Zhang 與 Dr. H. Chien 討論 wave breaking
問題。參觀 Scripps Pier
9 月 3 日：報到並參加歡迎酒會。
9 月 4 日：參加會議議程。
9 月 5 日：發表論文。
9 月 6 日~8 日：參加會議議程。。
9 月 9 日~9 月 11 日：回程。
二、與會心得
1. 本會議水準甚高，發表者一般準備皆甚周詳，不曾見到英文無法溝通的講者。與會者更是不乏飲譽國
附
件
三
表 Y04
Calculation of Infragravity Edge Wave along a Long and Straight Coast
Guan-Yu Chen *
ABSTRACT
Hua-Lien Harbor is located in a l;ong and straight coast and hence a complete study on the influence of infragravity edge wave to the harbor
should include the coast. This study starts with surveys on theoretical computation and both the applicability and accuracy of the theory are
discussed. It is concluded that the exact resonance between the varying breaking points and the edge wave phase has to be satisfied, or the theoretical
prediction will one-order overpredict the growth rate. For the bathymetry in Hua-Lien, edge waves of period 100-200 seconds are shown to dominate
and this observation will significantly simplify the calculation. Finally, we analyze new field data and new plans for future investigation is suggested.
1 Introduction
The motivation of the present study is based on our previous studies where edge wave was shown to play an important role in the harbor
resonance of Hua-Lien Harbor, Taiwan. In the south of the Harbor, there is a long and straight coast. Edge waves are generated not only locally, but
also along the whole long coast. Therefore, to calculate the edge wave that induces harbor resonance, the computational domain has to include the
whole coast.
Hua-Lien Harbor is the largest commercial harbor in eastern Taiwan. When the center of the typhoon is beside the Philippine islands, even if it is
one thousand kilometers away, its swell is known to induce resonance inside the harbor. The ships inside the harbor have to flee before the wave
conditions become dangerous. An examplein 2003 where mooring rope failure seriously injured a seaman is given.
In treating the resonance problem, engineers have usually assumed that the harbor entrance is facing the open sea and the forcing is a plane
infragravity wave incident shoreward. This is the most common layout. However, instead of facing the sea, the Hua-Lien harbor is along the long
straight east coast of Taiwan. This specific layout of Hua-Lien harbor makes the basin vulnerable to the influence of edge waves.
An interesting evidence for the importance of edge wave in Hua-Lien Harbor resonance was also reported. A series of offshore breakwaters
constructed outside the harbor results in a signifgicant reduction of the oscillation and hence delays the resonance inside for more than one hour. This
phenomena can be expalined if edge wave is the forcing for basin oscillation: In the existence of offshore breakwaters, two edge wave modes of the
same frequency are generated: one is reflected at the breakwaters and then continuously refracted by the coastal topography and is associated with the
breakwater. The other mode is the original edge wave without the breakwater. The former is shorter in longshore wavenumber while the later is longer.
After passing the offshore breakwater zone, these two edge wave modes are out of phase and hence make the oscillation minimized.
The bad news for harbor resonance study in Hua-Lien is that infragravity edge wave has never been observed in the east coast of Taiwan. This
means all countermeasures designed to reduce edge wave height cannot be directly applied.
How to solve this problem? The cheaper way is to theoretically or numerically compute edge waves in a large domain and compare the results
with the field measurement near Hua-Lien Harbor. The other method, which is much more expensive, is to find field evidences for the existence of
infragravity edge wave by deploying more wave gages and related instruments. In the following, we will first discuss the theoretical approach.
2 Review of existing theories in edge wave generation
We survey the existing theories and find the theory of Lippmann et al. (1997) is applicable. The accuracy of this theory is also discussed and the
difference between this theory and a laboratorial experiment is explained in the next section. In the third section, we find that this theory can be further
simplified in applying it to Hua-Lien area.
There are two ways to compute infragravity edge wave. One theoretically estimates the edge waves and theories of Gallagher (1971), Foda and
Mei (1981), Schäffer (1994), and Lippmann et al. (1997) are developped. The other numerically computes the boundary value problem and gives
infragravity components mixed with both free and bound waves. Reniers et al. (2002) and Van Dongeren et al. (2003) are a few recent example.
In simulating harbor resonances, the biigest problem for the numerical approach is that the bound waves have to be removed. For shorter waves,
their phase changes significantly due to irregular basin geometry. The result is destructive interferences that make resonance unlikely to happen.
However, these phase effect is not shown if we consider only the bound wave forced by the short wave groups. Therefore, only free infragravity wave
can stimulate harbor resonance. Unless free waves are separated from the bound wave, the accumulation of edge wave along the coast cannot be
calculated and the forcing for the harbor resonance cannot be specified.
The theory of Lippmann et al. (1997) focuses on edge waves that are obtained by taking inner product between the forcing and the edge wave
eigenfunction. Therefore, the results are exact edge waves that propagate freely. We do not have to worry it is contaminated by bound wave.
Another reason thant the theory of Lippmann et al. (1997) is chosen is its bathymetry assumption. Some researchers, for example Schäffer (1994),
assumed a flat offshore sea-bottom while Lippmann et al. (1997) assumed a constant slope. In practice, Hua-Lien Harbor and the east coast of Taiwan
is next to the deep Pacific Ocean. The sloping bottom extends more than 40 kilometers with no continental shelves. Comparing with the wavelength of
