The size of the compact interferometer system
built in this study is about 15cm×12cm×15cm. In
order to compare the dynamic behavior of light with
different wavelengths, both 655nm and 780nm of
light sources are used, see Figure 1 and 2. The
incident light is split into a reference beam and a
sample beam by a beam splitter cube. The sample
beam is focused on the surface of a light scattering
sample very close to the edge. The scattered photons
leave the sample from the lateral surface after
traveling different path lengths. The reference beam
passes a delay line for adjusting the reference
pathlength, while the pathlength of the sample beam
is held the same. The delay line allows us to extract
the scattered light that travels a specific distance in
the sample. When the pathlength of reference beam
is increased by 300m, it refers to one picosecond
(ps) of time delay. The later image picked up by a
lens interferes with the reference beam on a CCD
(ES-1602, Redlake) and forms a speckle image.
2.2 Visibility and Speckle Contrast in time domain
This speckle image is a combination of light
that entered the sample at different instant and after
traveling different distances in the scattering sample,
they escape from the lateral surface at the same
instant. By gradually increasing the pathlength of
reference beam, the lateral image will be grouped
into different time intervals. Since the scattering
of light in the sample is a random process and there
are always some random disturbances from the
environment, the speckle can not hold perfectly still.
Therefore, when a sequence of speckle images are
taken, the intensity of each pixel varies with time,
especial those have the same pathlength as that of
reference beam.
To enhance the interference pattern, two image
processing algorithms were performed. The
original way to quantify interference contrast is
defined by Michelson as interferometric visibility.
minmax
minmax
II
II
visibility

 (1)
where Imax is the highest intensity and Imin is the
lowest intensity. When the interference pattern is
irregular like speckle, speckle contrast is used to
define the interference contrast.


I
contrastspeckle
 (2)
where is the standard deviation of light intensity
and <I> is the average of light intensity.
Both algorithms were performed on each pixel
of 80 speckle images sequentially taken in about one
minute.
To measure the dynamic propagation of light in
scattering sample, the samples were cut to fit in the
sample holder whose volume is 20×20×10 mm3.
The scattering samples measured in this study
include silicon rubber, polyethylene, Teflon,
chicken muscle, swine muscle, swine skin, and
swine fat tissue.
3. Results and Discussion
The emission spectra of the red (655nm) and
near infrared (780nm) light sources were measured
using an optical fiber interferometer (USB2000,
Oceanoptics), see Figure 3. The coherence lengths
of both light sources were measured using a
Michelson interferometer. The coherence lengths
of red light and near infrared light are about 37m
and 28m respectively, as shown in Figure 4.
Figure 5 shows a sequence of light
propagation images in a polyethylene (PE) sample.
The visibility and speckle contrast processing have
very similar results. The value of visibility is
slightly larger than that of speckle contrast.
However, it also contains slightly more image noise.
When the propagation images are presented in
different forms, such as contour and 3D surface
profile, see Figure 6, more detailed information of
propagation can be found. The cross section
profiles shown in Figure 7 are used to evaluate the
penetration depth of light in a scattering material.
Figure 8 shows the penetration depths of red and
near infrared is different kinds of scattering
materials and biological tissues.
5. Conclusion
A compact interferometer was built in this
study for observing the dynamic propagation of red
and near-infrared in scattering media. Both
visibility and speckle contrast are appropriate for
retrieving the light propagation images. The
penetration depth of near infrared is generally larger
than that of red light because of its lower scattering
and absorption properties in biological tissue.
6. References
1. A. Amelink and H. J. C. M. Sterenborg, Appl.
Opt. 43, 3048-3054 (2004).
2. R. Drezek, A. Dunn, and R. Richards-Kortum,
Appl. Opt., 38, 3651-3661 (1999).
3. G. Häusler, J. M. Herrmann, R. Kummer, and M.
W. Lindner, Opt. Lett. 21, 1087-1089 (1996).
4. A. Kienle, F. K. Foster, and R. Hibst, Opt. Lett.
29, 2617-2619 (2004).
5. I. N. Polonsky and A. B. Davis, J. Opt. Soc. Am.
A 21, 1018-1025 (2004).
6. G Vargas, E Chan, JK Barton, HG Rylander III,
and AJ Welch, Lasers in Surgery and Medicine,
24, 133-141 (1999).
