prevention of ischemic stroke. However, the main 
disadvantage of this technique is that brain 
perfusion MRI cannot provide absolute values of 
cerebral blood volume (CBV) and flow (CBF). The 
reasons are: 1) it is difficult to select a voxel 
containing 100% blood as a reference voxel； 2) there 
are many different CBV and CBF computing methods 
producing different results. 
 
The purpose of this study was to develop a 
quantitative hemodynamic parameters calculation 
method. We used computer simulations to evaluate 
different CBV and CBF computation methods. Various 
hemodynamic parameters, including CBV, CBF, and mean 
transit time (MTT) for brain parenchyma on the normal 
and stenotic sides were compared. 
 
We tested a contrast agent arrival time estimation 
technique in conjunction with the commonly used 
singular value decomposition. Accurate CBV, CBF, and 
MTT values were obtained for normal brain. However, 
in stenotic brain parenchyma, CBV was correct, CBF 
was overestimated, and MTT was underestimated. As a 
result, the contrast between normal and stenotic 
brain parenchyma was reduced on CBF and MTT images. 
Therefore, the arrival time correction technique is 
not suitable for clinical applications. 
 
We also developed a method of rescaling the relative 
CBV and CBF to absolute values. First, cerebrospinal 
fluid and blood vessels were removed from the 
parametric images. Second, the voxels with a shorter 
time to peak of the concentration time curves were 
assigned to normal brain parenchyma. The relative CBV 
and relative CBF of normal brain parenchyma were 
compared with absolute values found in the 
literature, for calculating two scaling factors. 
Using these two scaling factors, relative CBV and CBF 
values were converted to absolute CBV and CBF. This 
technique provides absolute quantification of CBV and 
CBF, and does not require the use of venous output 
function for partial volume calculation. This 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 □期中進度報告
■期末報告
 
從頸動脈堵塞病人的腦血流灌注磁振影像， 
定量地計算血流動力學參數，以輔助臨床診斷 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-010 -002 -MY2 
執行期間：100 年 8 月 1 日至 102 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立陽明大學，生物醫學影像暨放射科學系 
 
計畫主持人：高怡宣 
共同主持人：鄧木火 
計畫參與人員：高怡慈、王豪、江蓮、莊騏碩、端木子桓。 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共 _1_ 份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國   102  年  10  月  30  日
2 
 
English Abstract 
 
Brain perfusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination is used for the diagnosis of cerebral or 
carotid artery stenosis or occlusion. The diagnosis is used for planning appropriate treatment and early 
prevention of ischemic stroke. However, the main disadvantage of this technique is that brain perfusion MRI 
cannot provide absolute values of cerebral blood volume (CBV) and flow (CBF). The reasons are: 1) it is 
difficult to select a voxel containing 100% blood as a reference voxel; 2) there are many different CBV and 
CBF computing methods producing different results. 
 
The purpose of this study was to develop a quantitative hemodynamic parameters calculation method. 
We used computer simulations to evaluate different CBV and CBF computation methods. Various 
hemodynamic parameters, including CBV, CBF, and mean transit time (MTT) for brain parenchyma on the 
normal and stenotic sides were compared. 
 
We tested a contrast agent arrival time estimation technique in conjunction with the commonly used 
singular value decomposition. Accurate CBV, CBF, and MTT values were obtained for normal brain. However, 
in stenotic brain parenchyma, CBV was correct, CBF was overestimated, and MTT was underestimated. As a 
result, the contrast between normal and stenotic brain parenchyma was reduced on CBF and MTT images. 
Therefore, the arrival time correction technique is not suitable for clinical applications. 
 
We have developed a technique for automatically measuring a venous output function for correcting the 
partial volume effect encountered in the quantitative CBV calculation. In application to clinical images, we 
found the calculated CBV and CBF for normal white matter and normal gray matter were much higher than 
the values in the literature. We believed this error was due to the partial volume effect, that is, it is very 
difficult to find a voxel containing 100% of venous blood for the measurement of a venous output function. 
 
We also developed a method of rescaling the relative CBV and CBF to absolute values. First, 
cerebrospinal fluid and blood vessels were removed from the parametric images. Second, the voxels with a 
shorter time to peak of the concentration time curves were assigned to normal brain parenchyma. The relative 
CBV and relative CBF of normal brain parenchyma were compared with absolute values found in the 
literature, for calculating two scaling factors. Using these two scaling factors, relative CBV and CBF values 
were converted to absolute CBV and CBF. This technique provides absolute quantification of CBV and CBF, 
and does not require the use of venous output function for partial volume calculation. This technique provides 
an alternative assessment of quantitative CBV and CBF. 
 
 
 
 
Keywords: magnetic resonance imaging, brain perfusion, cerebral blood volume, cerebral blood flow, mean 
transit time. 
 
4 
 
   [ ]∫∫∫ ∞∞∞ ⋅⋅= 000 )(  )()( dttRCBFdttAIFdttCtissue          [5] 
As a result, the summation of [CBF·R(t)] curve is equal to CBV, because 
   [ ] CBV
dttVOF
dttC
dttAIF
dttC
dttRCBF
tissuetissue ===⋅ ∫
∫
∫
∫∫ ∞
∞
∞
∞
∞
0
0
0
0
0    )(
   )(  
   )(
   )(  
)(      [6] 
 
2.   CBF calculation: 
 
Equation [4] can be rewritten into a discrete form described by: 
∑
=
−⋅Δ⋅=
j
i
ijijtissue ttRtAIFtCBFtC
1
)( )()(                [7] 
where j = 1, …, N, and N is the number of temporal points on the concentration-time curves. This equation 
can be converted to a matrix form described by: 
 
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
⋅
⋅
⋅
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
Δ=
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
− )(
.
)(
)(
  
)(...)()(
......
0...)()(
0...0)(
  
)(
.
)(
)(
2
1
11
12
1
2
1
N
tRCBF
tRCBF
tRCBF
tAIFtAIFtAIF
tAIFtAIF
tAIF
t
tc
tc
tc
NNNt
t
t
       [8] 
 
The above equation can be expressed in a matrix form as c = Ab and the CBF⋅R(t) curve can be solved 
by using b=A-1c. Ostergaard proposed to calculate A-1 by using a standard SVD (sSVD) technique 
(Ostergaard 1996). The maximum value of the CBF⋅R(t) curve is used as CBF. 
 
3.   Partial volume correction of AIF using VOF 
 
Because vein is larger than arteries, the probability for finding a pixel containing 100% blood in a vein is 
much larger than that of arteries. It is proposed that VOF can be measured on MR perfusion images to correct 
for the partial volume effect in measuring AIF from arterial pixels (Lin 2001, Ziegelitz 2009). According to 
the indicator dilution theory:  
∫∫ =
passfirstpassfirst
dttVOFdttAIF
    
)()(             [9] 
However, the diameters of arterial vessels are usually smaller than the pixel size on MR images, the 
concentration-time curve measured at an artery pixel, Cartery(t), is affected by the partial volume (PV) in the 
pixel described by: 
   )()( tAIFPVtCartery ⋅≅              [10] 
The PV value can be calculated as:   
 
    )(
   )( 
    )(
   )( 
 )(
   )(  
 
passfirst 
 
passfirst 
∫
∫
∫
∫
===
passfirst
artery
passfirst
artery
artery
dttVOF
dttC
dttAIF
dttC
tAIF
tC
PV       [11] 
 
 
 
 
6 
 
研究方法 
 
1.   Computer simulation 
 
We evaluated different CBV and CBF calculation techniques using computer simulations. The MTT was 
calculated as MTT=CBV/CBF. An AIF(t), with recirculation included, was generated by using Gamma-variate 
functions described by: 
   )()()()()()( 121111 /)(212
/)(
111 thettKttHettKttHtAIF aa
tt
aa
tt
aa ⊗−−+−−= −−−− βαβα  [12] 
where K1 is a constant, ta1 is the contrast-agent arrival time for the first pass, ta2 is the contrast-agent arrival 
time for the recirculation,  H(t-ta) is a Heavyside function described by: 
   
a
a
a tt
tt
ttH ≤
>=−
  , 1
  , 1
  {)(              [13] 
and h(t) is a function used to describe the dispersion of recirculation as compared to the first pass: 
   teth 2 )( 2
ββ −=                [14] 
The values to be used in the simulation are: K1 = 15, ta1 = 10, α1 = 3, β1= 1.5, K2 = 15, ta2 = 28, and β2= 1/30. 
 
The concentration-time curve at a tissue pixel was calculated by using Eq. [4] and  
   MTTttd dettHtR
/)( )()( −−−=             [15] 
where td is the arrival delay between AIF(t) and Ctissue(t), and it varies from 0 to 10 sec. The CBV values used 
in the simulation was 4 cc blood/g tissue. The MTT values used in the simulation were 4 and 12 sec for the 
normal brain tissue and penumbra, respectively. The standard and circulant SVD techniques were used to do 
the deconvolution calculation described in Eq. [7]. It is later found that the sSVD technique is sensitive to the 
arrival delay of contrast agents between AIF(t) and Ctissue(t), and this delay may cause underestimate of CBF. 
Wu et al. propose to use a circulant SVD (cSVD) technique for the deconvolution calculation (Wu 2003). The 
basic idea is to introduce the same amount of underestimate or overestimate of CBF for pixels with the same 
shape of concentration-time curves but with different arrival delays. 
 In addition, we estimated the bolus contrast arrival time at every pixel by using a curve fitting to the 
equation C(t) = mt+b. The arrival time (AT) was calculated as 0 = m(AT)+b and AT = -(b/m). After 
performing the AT correction, the standard SVD was used to do the deconvolution. After performing the SVD 
deconvolution calculation, the CBV was calculated by using Eq. [6], the CBF was the peak value of the 
CBF⋅R(t) curve, and MTT = CBV/CBF. 
 
2.   Automatic VOF measurement 
 
We developed an automatic VOF measurement technique. A simple summation of the concentration-time 
curve was used to estimate the area under curve (AUC): 
∑
=
=
70
6
)(
t
sum tCAUC               [16] 
On the posterior half of each slice, the AUCsum values for the brain voxels were arranged in a descending 
order. Starting from the voxel with the largest AUCsum, the concentration-time curves were fitted to a 
gamma-variate function. The correlation coefficient between the measured concentration-time curve and the 
fitted curve was calculated. The five voxels with the largest AUCsum values and their correlation coefficients 
larger than 0.9 were selected as the venous voxels for the VOF measurement. The averaged 
concentration-time curve for these five venous voxels was used as an in-plane VOF in each slice. The eight 
8 
 
結果與討論 
 
1.   Computer simulation 
 
Figure 1 demonstrates the computer simulation results of ratio between calculated value and true value 
for: CBV (a), CBF (b), and MTT = CBV/CBF (c) for normal brain tissue. Three calculation techniques were 
used, including: 1) the standard SVD technique (blue line); 2) the cSVD technique (red line); and 3) the 
standard SVD technique with arrival time (AT) correction (green). The arrival delay varied from 0 to 10 sec in 
the simulation. From these results, our newly proposed AT correction technique provided a better result as 
compared to the other two techniques. 
 
Figure 2 shows the computer simulation results for stenotic brain tissue. According to the results, our 
newly proposed AT correction technique provided a good estimate on CBV, overestimate of CBF, and 
underestimate of MTT, as compared to the other two techniques. Our technique was not sensitive to contrast 
arrival delay. However, in stenotic brain parenchyma, CBV was correct, CBF was overestimated, and MTT 
was underestimated. As a result, the contrast between normal and stenotic brain parenchyma was reduced on 
CBF and MTT images. Therefore, the arrival time correction technique is not suitable for clinical applications. 
 
 
 
 
(a) CBV (b) CBF (c) MTT = CBV/CBF 
Figure 1. Simulation for normal brain with CBV = 4 mL/100 g, CBF = 60 mL/100 g /min, MTT = 4 sec. 
 
 
 
 
(a) CBV (b) CBF (c) MTT = CBV/CBF 
Figure 2. Simulation for stenotic brain tissue with CBV = 4 mL/100 g, CBF = 20 mL/100 g /min, MTT = 12 
sec. 
10 
 
3.   Automatic scaling factors measurement 
 
Figure 6 demonstrates the post-processing procedure for the calculation of two scaling factors. It is 
necessary to apply two thresholds to the rCBV and rCBF for the removal of vessel voxels. The automatical 
segmentation of normal brain reduced the variability and difficulty in manual selection process. The 
segmented normal brain parenchyma is compatible with the clinical and angiographic criteria.  
 
 Using the two scaling factors, the absolute values for CBV and CBF were calculated as shown in Figure 
7. This technique provides an alternative method, instead of using an output function to correct venous CBV 
and CBF, for quantitative measurements of the brain parenchyma.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. The post-processing procedure from a patient 
with 90% left internal carotid stenosis. A ratio image (a) 
and CSF mask (b) were obtained for CSF removal. 
Preliminary vessel masks were calculated from the rCBV 
image (c), rCBF image (d), and both rCBV and rCBF 
images (e). In (e), yellow voxels are from the rCBV mask, 
cyan voxels are from the rCBF mask, and red voxels are 
from both. More vessel voxels are identified on the 
stenotic side (arrows) than the normal side on rCBV mask 
(c). The segmented normal perfused brain parenchyma is 
shown in (h). (adapted from Teng 2013) 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
References: 
 
Axel L. Cerebral blood.ow determination by rapid-sequence computed tomography: theoretical analysis. 
Radiology 1980;137:679–86.  
Kao YH, Teng MMH, Zheng WY, Chang FC, Chen YF. Removal of CSF pixels on brain MR perfusion 
images using first several images and Otsu’s thresholding technique. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 
2010;64:743–748. 
Lassen NA, Perl W. Tracer kinetics methods in medical physiology. New York: Raven press; 1979. 
Lin WL, Celik A, Derdeyn C, An H, Lee Y, Videen T, Ostergaard L, Powers WJ. Quantitative measurements 
of cerebral blood flow in patients with unilateral carotid artery occlusion: a PET and MR study. JMRI 
2001;14:659–667. 
Mukherjee P, Kang HC, Videen TO, et al. Measurement of cerebral blood flow in chronic carotid occlusive 
disease: comparison of dynamic susceptibility contrast perfusion MR imaging with positron emission 
tomography. American Journal of Neuroradiology 2003;24:862–871. 
Ostergaard L, Weisskoff RM, Chesler DA, et. al. High resolution measurement of cerebral blood flow using 
intravascular tracer bolus passages: part I. mathematical approach and statistical analysis. Magn Reson 
Med 1996; 36:715-725. 
Ostergaard L, Sorensen AG, Kwong KK, et al. High resolution measurement of cerebral blood flow using 
intravascular tracer bolus passages. Part II: experimental comparison and preliminary results. Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine 1996;36:726–736. 
Rempp KA, Brix G, Wenz F, Becker CR, Gückel F, Lorenz WJ. Quantification of regional cerebral blood flow 
and volume with dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging. Radiology, 1994; 193:637-641. 
Rosen BR, Belliveau JW, Vevea JM, Brady TJ. Perfusion imaging with NMR contrast agents. Magnetic 
Resonance in Medcine 1990;14:249-265. 
Sakaie KE, Shin W, Curtin KR, et al. Method for improving the accuracy of quantitative cerebral perfusion 
imaging,” Journal of Magnetic Resonance Imaging 2005;21:512–519. 
Teng MMH,Cho IC, Kao YH,* Chuang CS, Chiu FY, Chang FC. Improvements in the quantitative assessment 
of cerebral blood volume and flow with the removal of vessel voxels from MR perfusion images. 
BioMed Research International Vol. 2013, Article ID 382027, 11 pages. *: corresponding author. 
Wu O, Ostergaard L, Weisskoff RM, et al. Tracer arrival timing-insensitive technique for estimating flow in 
MR perfusiojnj-weighted imaging using singular value decomposition with a block-circulant 
decomposition matrix. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 2003;50:164-174. 
Ziegelitz D, Starck G, Mikkelsen IK, et al. Absolute quantification of cerebral blood flow in neurologically 
normal volunteers: dynamic-susceptibility contrast MRI-perfusion compared with computed tomography 
(CT)-perfusion. Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 2009;62:56–65. 
 
 
 2
二、與會心得 
 
 這個會議的參加人員大部份是科學家，主要的研究內容是使用老鼠的中風模型，研發藥
物，以治療中風的老鼠。若藥物治療效果良好，則經由轉譯醫學，希望經由臨床實驗，應
用到人類，以治療中風的病人。 
 
 根據與會者的演講及討論，得知已經有一千多種藥物在老鼠模型實驗成功，但是只有一
種藥物在人體實驗成功，那就是 recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, rt-PA。rt-PA 這個
藥物已經有十年的歷史，必需在中風發作的 3~6 小時內使用，才有療效。而其副作用是會
導致出血性中風的病情惡化。但是因為從病人發病，被旁人發現，用車輛運送到急診室，
經由一系列的診斷，判定為出血性中風之後，很多病人已經超過 3~6 小時的黃全期。 
 
   另外一個議題是在老鼠模型實驗時，大部份都使用年輕的老鼠，可是在人類的疾病狀
況，中風常發生在年老的族群，而且中風的病患大多也有得到其他疾病，例如糖尿病、高
血壓、血管硬化。因此在老鼠模型實驗成功的藥物，卻未能在人體試驗成功，似乎也是合
理的。在會議中，有人提出要做多國多中心的合作，將中風病人的血管堵塞位置，以及其
他併發疾病建檔，然後專心研究少數幾種藥物，才能在研究上有進展。但是立刻有人指出
困難之處：要如何挑選這幾種藥物？在會議中有一位腦外科醫師呼頷要科學家和臨床醫師
共同合作，才能將實驗室的研究成果，發展成臨床可以使用的藥物。這位醫師也提到，目
前科學家的研究重點在腦部的灰質（gray matter），可是白質（white matter）也佔的體積，
所以也要一起研究。 
 
    目前個人的研究重心在分析腦部或頸部血管狹窄病人的影像，日標是發展出影像後處
理處技術，以分析病人腦部的供血狀況。我們所報告的論文摘要已經注意要灰質和白質的
差異，接下來要更深入地研究。 
 
 4
 
 
 
 6
六、其他 
 
 
作者和海報合影 
 
作者和海報合影 
 
大會安排的演講 
 
分組討論會議 
 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：高怡宣 計畫編號：100-2221-E-010-002-MY2 
計畫名稱：從頸動脈堵塞病人的腦血流灌注磁振影像，定量地計算血流動力學參數，以輔助臨床診斷
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100% 
Teng MMH,Cho IC, 
Kao YH,* Chuang 
CS, Chiu FY, 
Chang FC. 
Improvements in 
the quantitative 
assessment of 
cerebral blood 
volume and flow 
with the removal 
of vessel voxels 
from MR 
perfusion 
images. BioMed 
Research 
International 
Vol. 2013, 
Article ID 
382027, 11 pages 
(2013). (SCI) *: 
corresponding 
author. 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
國外 論文著作 
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
第 26 屆腦血流、
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
