 1 
 
在高速快移動性下多模無線存取網路架構中之品質服務技術研究設計 
Study and Design of QoS Techniques over Multimode Wireless Access 
Networks with High Mobility 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-009-055-MY3 
執行期限：95 年8 月1 日至98 年7 月31 日 
主持人：陳耀宗教授 (國立交通大學資訊工程學系) 
計畫參與人員：施振華、黃月慧、葉盈潔、陳冠騰、李尚書 
I. 中文摘要 
  本計畫主要在研究高速行動性(High mobility)
下，多模無線存取網路架構下之品質服務(Quality 
of Services, QoS)技術。隨著多媒體串流的服務延
伸至行動用戶(Mobile Stations, MS)，縮短交遞延
遲時間(Handover delay)和服務中斷時間(Service 
Disruption Time, SDT)以維持 IP 網路的連接性變
成非常重要的議題。在本研究中，我們提出了兩
種換手機制，分別為:「一個 IEEE 802.16j 移動式
中繼站快速交遞之移動機制」以及「WiMAX/WiFi
異質網路上跨層媒介獨立換手機制」。在 IEEE 
802.16j 移動式中繼站快速交遞之移動機制方
面，我們提出的方法可減少 82%的服務中斷時
間；而在 WiMAX/WiFi 異質網路上跨層媒介獨立
換手機制這個部份，則減少了 78.364%的服務中
斷時間。因此這兩套機制能顯著地改善即時應用 
(Real-time Application)的品質服務。在接下來的
研究我們將繼續以 IEEE 802.21 為基礎，探討
802.16j 與其他無線網路架構下之快速交遞以及
服務品質轉換(QoS Transition) 的方法。 
 
關鍵詞：高速行動性，多模無線存取，品質服務，
跨層，快速交遞，服務品質轉換。 
II. 英文摘要 
This project is to study the Quality of Service 
(QoS) techniques under multimode wireless access 
Networks with high mobility. As media streaming 
services are extending to mobile stations, it is 
crucial to minimize the handover delay and service 
disruption time (SDT) so as to maintain the 
sustained connection of IP sessions. In this work, 
we propose two kinds of handover schemes: “A 
Fast Handover Based Mobility Scheme over 
802.16j Moving RS Mode” and “A Cross-Layering 
Media-Independent Handover Mechanism in 
Heterogeneous WiMAX/WiFi Networks” 
respectively. Compared with the mobile IPv6 
scheme, the former can reduce the SDT by about 
82% and the latter can reduce the SDT by about 
78.364%. Hence, our handover schemes can 
improve the QoS for real-time applications 
significantly. 
In the future work, we will investigate the fast 
handover and QoS transition schemes under 802.16j 
and other wireless networks based on IEEE 802.21 
standard. 
 
Keywords: High mobility, Multimode Wireless 
Access, Quality of Services, Cross-Layering, 
handover delay, Fast handover, QoS transition. 
III. 計畫緣由與目的 
During recent years, mobile device has become 
more popular because of the increased availability 
of portable devices and improved wireless 
technology. A variety of wireless technologies (e.g., 
Wi-Fi, WiMAX[1][2], 802.16j[3][4], CDMA, GSM, 
GPRS, UMTS and Bluetooth) are mainly provided 
for new Internet applications and services.  
However, the handover latency and SDT increase 
significantly due to the complex handover process 
under the various wireless technologies. To support 
seamless mobility and QoS for real-time 
applications, it is crucial to minimize the handover 
delay and SDT by integrating heterogeneous 
networks. The fourth generation (4G) networks are 
also proposed to allow mobile users using always 
best connect (ABC) session by integrating networks 
[5]. 
Hence, our goals are to support seamless mobility 
and ensure that the ongoing session won’t be 
disrupted from one access network to another by 
 3 
 
Figure 3. Fast Handover Based Mobility Scheme over 
802.16j Moving RS Mode in predictive mode 
1. The serving BS broadcasts MOB_NBR-ADV 
message periodically. 
2. MRS generates MRS_NBR-ADV message 
according to the information in 
MOB_NBR-ADV message and sends to MS. 
3. When a new BS is found, the MS requests the 
new subnet prefix of the target BS by an 
exchange of RtSolPr and PrRtAdv messages 
with the PAR. 
4. The MRS initiates handover by sending 
MOB_MSHO-REQ message to the serving BS 
and receives MOB_BS-RSP from the serving 
BS. Alternatively, the serving BS can initiate 
handover by sending MOB_BSHO-REQ 
message to MRS. 
5. MRS sends MRS_HO-REQ to notify MS that 
there is an impending handover that the target 
BS belongs to a different subnet. 
6. On reception of MRS_HO-REQ message, the 
MS sends FBU message to the PAR. This 
message provides the CoA configured by MS. 
On receiving this message, the PAR establishes 
a tunnel between the current CoA and the new 
CoA by exchange of HI and HAck message 
with the NAR and it forwards the packets 
destined for the current CoA to the new CoA. 
During this time, the NAR confirms that the 
new CoA is unique in the new subnet by 
performing DAD process. After the tunnel is 
established, the PAR sends FBAck message to 
MS. 
7. After MS receives the FBAck massage, it sends 
MRS_HO-RSP message to notify MRS that MS 
has finished the CoA confirmation procedure. 
8. The MRS receives MRS_HO-RSP message 
before its handover and sends MOB_HO-IND 
message as a final indication of handover. 
Afterwards it operates in predictive mode in the 
new link. 
9. The MRS conducts handover to the target BS 
and performs the IEEE 802.16j MRS network 
re-entry procedure. After finished network 
re-entry procedure, the MRS sends 
MRS_HO-CLT message to MS. 
10. On receiving MRS_HO-CLT message, the MS 
sends FNA message to the NAR. 
11. When NAR receives the FAN from the MS, it 
delivers the buffered packets to the MS. 
Reactive mode  
This section describes the handover procedures in 
the reactive mode. Figure 4 shows these procedures. 
 
Figure 4. Fast Handover Based Mobility Scheme over 
802.16j Moving RS Mode in reactive mode 
 
1. ~ 5. The same as procedures of predictive mode. 
6. On reception of MRS_HO-REQ message, the 
MS sends FBU message to the PAR, but MS 
does not receive FBAck message before MRS 
sends MOB_HO-IND message as a final 
indication of handover. Afterwards it operates in 
reactive mode in the new link. 
7. The MRS conducts handover to the target BS 
and performs the IEEE 802.16j MRS network 
re-entry procedure. After finished network 
re-entry procedure, the MRS sends 
MRS_HO-CLT message to MS. 
8. On receiving MRS_HO-CLT message, the MS 
sends FNA message to the NAR, with an 
encapsulated FBU message. 
9. Upon receiving the FNA message, the NAR 
verifies the availability of the new CoA by 
performing DAD and forwards the inner FBU 
message to PAR to establish a packet tunnel. 
10. After PAR sends an FBAck message to the 
NAR as a reply to the FBU message, the PAR 
starts to tunnel the packets destined for the old 
CoA to the new CoA. 
 
B. A Cross-Layering Media-Independent 
 5 
 
Parallel handover 
Because the MN may have two or more interface 
to support service connection in heterogeneous 
networks, the L2 handover procedure can happen in 
parallel with the L3 handover process. When MIH 
user knows target PoA, it can instruct target 
interface of the MN to perform the L2 handover 
procedure and send a Query_NCOA.REQ message 
to the S-AR by using interface of the MN in order 
to do the partial L3 handover process. The 
Query_NCoA.REQ message including target PoA 
information informs the S-AR about the MN will 
handover under which PoA and applies for NCoA 
of the MN. The L2 handover procedure can 
simultaneously execute with the partial L3 handover 
process. For this reason, we only select longer 
handover process to calculate handover latency. In 
our proposed scheme, the L2 handover process is 
longer the partial L3 handover, then count the time 
of the L2 handover into handover latency.  
Buffer mechanism 
We used FMIPv6 to perform the L3 handover 
process and employed tunnel-based handover 
mechanism. When the S-AR receives a 
Query_NCoA.REQ message from the MN, the 
S-AR assigns an NCoA to the MN based on target 
PoA of the MN and establishes the tunnel between 
the current CoA of the MN and its NCoA at the 
T-AR. The T-AR intercepts the tunneled packets 
and stores them in a buffer until it receives a 
Link_Up.IND message. The Link_Up.IND is the 
first message delivered from the target PoA when 
re-association completes between the MN and the 
target PoA. Upon reception the message, the T-AR 
replies a Link_Up.Ack message to the target PoA 
and forwards the buffered packets to the MN. As 
soon as the MN attaches to the new link, we uses 
the target PoA inform the T-AR replaces the MN 
send a FNA message to T-AR can reduced the SDT. 
Hence, buffer mechanism is save the packet during 
the L2 handover procedure and attain to the purpose 
of seamless handover. 
Message flow chart 
In this section, we illustrate our proposed scheme 
in Fig. 7 and use FMIPv6 in the L3 handover 
procedure. In the follow, we describe the message 
flow chart in Fig. 7 step by step and the MIH 
message depicted by filled lines, while FMIPv6 and 
technology-specific messages are expressed by 
dashed and dotted lines, respectively. The handover 
procedure operates as follows: 
1. The MN receives the 
MIH_Link_Parameters_Report.IND event 
from serving interface that called S-MAC and 
it includes link measurement report. The 
message can be sent periodically for 
informational reasons. When the T-MAC of 
the MN detects a new link from new PoA, it 
triggers a MIH_Link_Detected.IND event to 
inform the upper layer. 
2. The MN periodically queries the MIIS by the 
MIH_Get_Information.REQ/RSP message to 
gather information about neighbor PoAs and 
their characteristics. 
3. When the MN detected a new link, it can query 
the MIIS about the new PoA information and 
forward the interface hardware address to the 
S-AR by Pre-DAD.IND messages. Upon 
receiving the message from the MN, the S-AR 
replies a Pre-DAD.ACK message to the MN 
and configure some NCoA for the MN with all 
S-AR neighbor network prefix. As mentioned 
above, we use the second condition, the S-AR 
is configures these NCoAs with the new 
network prefix and based on either the 
interface hardware address from the MN or 
generated randomly. Moreover, these NCoAs 
must be confirmed with DAD procedure and 
stored both in the S-AR and the corresponding 
T-AR. 
4. Upon reception the Link_Going_Down.IND 
event from the S-MAC, the MN goes into 
handover preparation process and performs the 
MIH_Link_Actions.REQ to scan the link 
status of the candidate networks. 
5. The MN sent a 
MIH_MN_HO_Candidate_Query.REQ 
message to the serving PoA and this message 
included two parameters are 
CandidateLinkList and 
QosResourceRequirements. The first 
parameter is instructs the serving PoA to check 
resource availability status for the list of 
candidate PoAs and the second parameter is 
minimal QoS resources required at the 
candidate network. After serving PoA received 
the message from the MN, it retrieves resource 
 7 
 
packet loss. Figure 8 and 9 show the simulation 
results in both schemes. 
 
Figure 8. Packet sequence numbers in conventional 
scheme in simulation 1 
 
 
Figure 9. Packet sequence numbers in proposed scheme 
in simulation 1 
In figure 8, during handover period the mobile 
node is unable to receive any packet from service 
provider. The disruption latency is about 1.25 
seconds of the conventional scheme and there is no 
mechanism for buffering so every packet is lost. 
On the other hand, in figure 9 the proposed 
scheme is used. The PAR buffers the packets, and 
forwards them in the tunnel, so that the MS can 
receive packets before handover procedure finished. 
We can observe that the disruption latency is about 
0.225 seconds, and the packet loss rate in proposed 
scheme is much lower than conventional scheme. 
The disruption latency can be reduced by 82% in 
our scheme. 
For VoIP service, the shorter handover disruption 
latency means a smoother QoS. By reducing the 
service disruption time the users can experience a 
butter quality. 
Simulation scenario 2 
In this simulation, we want to ensure that the 
handover scheme works well for the video 
streaming service and shows better handover 
disruption latency and packet loss rate than the 
conventional scheme. Table 2 presents the traffic 
information. To simplify the simulation, the MS 
only has one service flow connection. The traffic 
source produces the traffic rate 1 Mbps and the 
packet size for 1500 bytes. 
We measure the performance with the sequence 
numbers of packet received by MS. The results are 
shown in Figure 10 and 11 in both schemes.We 
compare the results with simulation 1, the proposed 
scheme has better performance also in video 
streaming service. In figure 10, every packet is lost 
during handover. In proposed scheme, we reduce 
the service disruption time successfully. Besides, 
we can find that the PAR buffers the packets and 
forwards them in the tunnel, so MS receive the 
packets after handover process is finished. 
 
 Table 2. Traffic information of simulation 2 
 
 
Figure 10. Packet sequence numbers in conventional 
scheme in simulation 2 
Packet size Rate Bandwidth 
  Max Min 
1500 bytes 1 Mbps 4 Mbps 2 Mbps 
 9 
 
 
Figure 14. The simulation result in our proposed scheme 
 
Figure 15. The simulation result in our proposed scheme 
We change the MN moving speed from 1 m/s to 
30 m/s and simulate it every 5 meter change. We 
contrast our proposed scheme with the standard and 
literature. To understand clearly the influence of 
velocity, the curves of the standard presented in Fig. 
15 describes the relation between the SDT and 
speed. Specially, our proposed scheme has a stable 
value, it can support high speed of the MN and 
perform the buffer mechanism before the service 
disruption. Although, our proposed scheme in low 
speed is worse than the standard, but in upper of 5 
m/s has good performance. Because of buffer 
mechanism, we can store packets during the SDT 
and the SDT of our proposed scheme is around 
195ms. The literature approach in 1 m/s of the MN 
speed is predictive mode and has buffer mechanism 
like our proposed method. In speed 5 m/s of the MN, 
the handover of the literature into reactive mode and 
it re-established WiFi connect and DAD process 
after it original connect disrupt.  
VI. 結論與討論 
In this study, two kinds of handover schemes: “A 
Fast Handover Based Mobility Scheme over 
802.16j Moving RS Mode” and “A Cross-Layering 
Media-Independent Handover Mechanism in 
Heterogeneous WiMAX/WiFi Networks” were 
proposed to accommodate the delay sensitive 
real-time applications. The SDT of these two 
handover schemes were reduced by link layer 
cooperates with IP layer. The performance analysis 
result showed that our proposed schemes feature 
much smaller SDT than the original scheme. 
Compared with the mobile IPv6 scheme, the 
former can reduce the service disruption time by 
about 82% and the latter can reduce the service 
disruption time by about 78.364%. Hence, our 
handover schemes can improve the QoS for 
real-time applications significantly. 
 
VII. 參考文獻 
[1] IEEE Std. 802.16-2004, "Local and 
Metropolitan Area Networks, Part 16: Air 
Interface for Fixed Broadband Wireless Access 
Systems, " Oct. 2004.  
[2] IEEE Std. 802.16e-2005, "Local and 
Metropolitan Area Networks, Part 16: Air 
Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband 
Wireless Access Systems, " Dec. 2005.  
[3] IEEE 802.16’s Relay Task Group; 
http://wirelessman.org/relay/ 
[4]  Draft Amendment to IEEE Standard for Local 
and metropolitan area networks-Part 16: Air 
Interface for Fixed and Mobile Broadband 
Wireless Access Systems, Multihop Relay 
Specification. IEEE P802.16j/D7 
[5] Gustafsson, E. and A. Jonsson, Always best 
connected. IEEE Wireless Communications, 
2003. 10(1): p. 49-55. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
□ 赴國外出差或研習 
□ 赴大陸地區出差或研習 
■ 出席國際學術會議 
□ 國際合作研究計畫出國 
□ 參加教育研習營 
心得報告 
計 畫 名 稱 在高速快移動性下多模無線
存取網路架構中之品質服務
技術研究設計 
計 畫 編 號 NSC 95-2221-E-009-055
-MY3 
報 告 人 
姓 名 陳耀宗 
服 務 機 構
及 職 稱
國立交通大學資訊工程系 
教授 
會  議  時間 
 地點 
July 13 – 15, 2009 
Cambridge, United Kingdom (英國劍橋) 
會 議 名 稱 The Fifth IASTED European Conference on Internet and Multimedia Systems and Applications (EuroIMSA 2009) 
發表論文題目 A SMART QOS PROVISIONING SYSTEM FOR VOICE OVER IP 
一、經過 
今年之 IASTED EuroIMSA 在英國劍橋舉行。國人普遍對劍橋不陌生，一是因為徐志
摩的“再別康橋”一文，再則為陳之藩的 “劍河倒影” 。這兩篇文章都曾列入國文教科
書。由於台灣的旅客到英國已經免簽證，而會議地點又離倫敦只一小時車程，所以我
就直飛倫敦，再搭火車至劍橋。事實上，會議就在劍橋大學的 Fitzwilliam College 學
院內。這會議不算大，三天的議程分三大主題:  Control and Applications (CA 2009), 
Visualization, Imaging and Image Processing(VIIP 2009), Internet and Multimedia Systems 
and Applications(EuroIMSA)。我參加的是 EuroIMSA，但來到劍橋大學這學術重鎮，似
乎參加者都很認真，也就是說，議程從頭到尾都不像一般大會有人進進出出。也難怪，
劍橋大學不是飯店，所以除了參加大會的，看不到其他閒雜人，也不像一般會議上總
會有部份人在會場大廳閒聊。不過要找到會場不容易，我搭計程車到學院門口，還花
了十多分鐘才問出會議室在那兒。報告完後倒有幾個發問，表示還有人在認真聽。整
天的議程結束後，因為天氣不錯，就逛到小鎮上。由於是旅遊旺季，不少年青人在兜
攬劍河泛舟的生意。興致一來，就跳上了船。操槳者是個捷克來的年青人，暑假到此
打工。他邊划邊介紹劍河兩岸的建築與故事，英文流利，口齒清析。聽他娓娓道來，
我還一邊想，國內要找到如此的年青學生，願到國外闖蕩的可能不容易了，要有如此
流利的英文更不容易，我們的年青人似乎普遍缺乏那種到國外打拼的氣魄。 
二、心得 
劍橋不愧聞名遐爾，一些耳熟能詳的名子像牛頓、拜倫、馬克士威爾都是劍橋大學的
校友。而且從它的知名校友中可發現詩人很多，以劍橋的環境來看，應該其來有自。
例如徐志摩，他原本對理工較有興趣，來到劍橋遊學後，如詩如畫的環境激發了他詩
人的潛能，所以劍橋時期是徐志摩一生的轉折點。因此他曾說：“我的眼是康橋教我
睜的，我的求知慾是康橋給我撥動的，我的自我意識是康橋給我的。＂可見環境對一
個人心志的影響。 
 
□ 赴國外出差或研習 
□ 赴大陸地區出差或研習 
■ 出席國際學術會議 
□ 國際合作研究計畫出國 
□ 參加教育研習營 
心得報告 
計 畫 名 稱 在高速快移動性下多模無線
存取網路架構中之品質服務
技術研究設計 
計 畫 編 號 NSC 95-2221-E-009-055
-MY3 
報 告 人 
姓 名 陳耀宗 
服 務 機 構
及 職 稱
國立交通大學資訊工程系 
教授 
會  議  時間 
 地點 
July 13 – 15, 2009 
Cambridge, United Kingdom (英國劍橋) 
會 議 名 稱 The Fifth IASTED European Conference on Internet and Multimedia Systems and Applications (EuroIMSA 2009) 
發表論文題目 A SMART QOS PROVISIONING SYSTEM FOR VOICE OVER IP 
一、經過 
今年之 IASTED EuroIMSA 在英國劍橋舉行。國人普遍對劍橋不陌生，一是因為徐志
摩的“再別康橋”一文，再則為陳之藩的 “劍河倒影” 。這兩篇文章都曾列入國文教科
書。由於台灣的旅客到英國已經免簽證，而會議地點又離倫敦只一小時車程，所以我
就直飛倫敦，再搭火車至劍橋。事實上，會議就在劍橋大學的 Fitzwilliam College 學
院內。這會議不算大，三天的議程分三大主題:  Control and Applications (CA 2009), 
Visualization, Imaging and Image Processing(VIIP 2009), Internet and Multimedia Systems 
and Applications(EuroIMSA)。我參加的是 EuroIMSA，但來到劍橋大學這學術重鎮，似
乎參加者都很認真，也就是說，議程從頭到尾都不像一般大會有人進進出出。也難怪，
劍橋大學不是飯店，所以除了參加大會的，看不到其他閒雜人，也不像一般會議上總
會有部份人在會場大廳閒聊。不過要找到會場不容易，我搭計程車到學院門口，還花
了十多分鐘才問出會議室在那兒。報告完後倒有幾個發問，表示還有人在認真聽。整
天的議程結束後，因為天氣不錯，就逛到小鎮上。由於是旅遊旺季，不少年青人在兜
攬劍河泛舟的生意。興致一來，就跳上了船。操槳者是個捷克來的年青人，暑假到此
打工。他邊划邊介紹劍河兩岸的建築與故事，英文流利，口齒清析。聽他娓娓道來，
我還一邊想，國內要找到如此的年青學生，願到國外闖蕩的可能不容易了，要有如此
流利的英文更不容易，我們的年青人似乎普遍缺乏那種到國外打拼的氣魄。 
二、心得 
劍橋不愧聞名遐爾，一些耳熟能詳的名子像牛頓、拜倫、馬克士威爾都是劍橋大學的
校友。而且從它的知名校友中可發現詩人很多，以劍橋的環境來看，應該其來有自。
例如徐志摩，他原本對理工較有興趣，來到劍橋遊學後，如詩如畫的環境激發了他詩
人的潛能，所以劍橋時期是徐志摩一生的轉折點。因此他曾說：“我的眼是康橋教我
睜的，我的求知慾是康橋給我撥動的，我的自我意識是康橋給我的。＂可見環境對一
個人心志的影響。 
 
