  
中︾英文摘要及關鍵詞  
 
在急重症加護醫學研究中︽經常會遇到因心血管供氧不充足而刺激交感神經興
奮來降低人體維生器官︾肌肉︾以及皮膚組織之血管收縮以維持中心血壓值的
穩定〈而這樣的補償機制卻很可能會讓病人體內組織的低血容積(hypovolemia)
現象不易被觀察到︽此階段的循環性休克被稱之為代償性休克(compensated 
shock)〈為了提供更多資訊給醫護人員︽我們希望發展一套系統具有即時檢
測︾非侵入式︾非輻射性︾易攜帶︾低成本等特性︽提供加護病房一套合適的
臨床監測儀器〈因此我們設計一套擴散光學光譜造影術系統︽用連續波半導體
雷射當光源︽再利用光檢測器接收訊號︽傳回電作分析處理︽來得到受測者血
氧量的資訊〈報告中對健康的受測者與一些加護病房中的心臟衰竭病患與敗血
症病患做了一些生理量測實驗︽主要是觀察靜脈束縛的血氧變化︽可以看出病
人與正常人的差異性〈 
關鍵字「 擴散光學光譜影像︾重症加護病房︾靜脈束縛測試 
Diffuse optical spectroscopic imaging (DOSI) is a technique to assess the spatial 
variation in absorption and scattering properties of the biological tissues and 
provides the monitoring of changes in concentrations of oxy-hemoglobin and 
deoxy-hemoglobin. In our preliminary study, the temporal tracings of tissue 
oxygenation are measured with DOSI and venous occlusion test (VOT) from 
normal subjects, patients with heart failure and patients with sepsis in intensive care 
unit (ICU). In experiments, the obvious differences of tissue oxygenation signals 
can be observed among the three groups. The physiological relevance of VOT 
tissue oxygenation with respect to diseases is also discussed in report. 
Keywords: diffuse optical spectroscopic imaging (DOSI), intensive care unit (ICU), 
venous occlusion test (VOT)
PC-optode interfacing that contains LDs driving, multiplexing and detected signals 
demultiplexing from photodiodes. All of the optical signals are analyzed based on the modified 
Beer-Lambert law with various source-detector separations on optode (Figure 1). The modified 
Beer-Lambert law [7] is as follows: 
                (1) 
where OD is the optical density. I0 and I are the intensity of incident light and detected light, 
respectively. ε represents the extinction coefficient of the tissue and C is the concentration of the 
tissue. L represents the mean path length of detected photons. B is defined as the pathlength 
factor that can be set for compensation of different effective pathlength with various wavelengths. 
G is defined as the geometric factor that is used to compensate the objective with different 
geometrical shape. Typically, L and B can be treated as constants with monochromatic light 
illumination in a turbid media with unchanged geometry. The change of optical signal is 
concomitant occurred while the tissue oxygenation was changed. Then equation (1) can be 
rewritten as 
                  (2)                                   
Where  is the change in optical density. ODFinal and ODInitial are detected optical density and 
optical density of incident light. If and Ii are the measured intensities before and after the 
concentration change, and  is the change in concentration. The change of detected light 
intensity is dominated from the change of concentrations of oxy-hemoglobin and 
deoxy-hemoglobin in tissue. Therefore, the description can be treated as following: 
                       (3) 
                                          (4) 
             
         
(5) 
The oxygenation saturation StO2 and the concentration of total hemoglobin can be calculated 
from concentrations of oxy-hemoglobin and deoxy-hemoglobin based on the Eq. (6) and (7): 
THb=HbO2+Hb           (6) 
 StO2=HbO2/(HbO2+Hb)           (7) 
 
 Normal 
(n=11) 
Heart failure 
(n=7) 
Sepsis 
(n=5) 
Recuperate 
(n=1) 
Critical 
(n=1) 
Age (years) 
MAP(mmHg) 
HR (beats/min) 
SpO2 
Hemoglobin (g/dl) 
27.5  
78.7  
73.7  
97.3  
-- 
74.7 11.4 
13.3 
82.5 15.5 
98.5 1.3 
10.3 1.7 
50.7 8.13 
70.8 16.9 
104.25 9.52 
91.25 12.94 
9.45 2.0 
44 
85.3 
95 
99 
9.8 
82 
68.3 
106 
82 
9.8	  
 
In our DOSI system, all detected signals were analyzed based on the modified 
Beer-Lambert law for two-dimensional image mapping with respect to source-detector geometry. 
The reconstructed values corresponding to the sensing region of optode are calculated with the 
data measured by nearest-neighbor source-detector pairs. Besides, the linear interpolation process 
is adopted for reconstructed image. For characterizing of tissue oxygenation signals, the temporal 
profiles can be obtained with average of pixel values in image. Figure 2 shows the dynamic 
change of oxygenation images in a normal subject. However, the amplitude of tissue oxygenation 
signal is related to the measured position in experiment. The weak response area of image may 
not reveal useful information for evaluation of the tissue oxygenation during the VOT monitoring. 
For improvement of signal-to-noise ratio, the binarize segmentation method was adopted for 
image post-process in our study. The basic idea of binarize segmentation is achieved with a 
threshold value setting [21]. Each pixel in image can be divided into two parts: one part is higher 
than threshold value and another part is lower. In our case, the threshold value was obtained by 
the average value of all image pixels. Figure 3 demonstrates the scheme of signal process based 
on the binarize segmentation method for oxygenation dynamics monitoring in DOSI system. For 
observation of the regional perfusion with the VOT, the average intensity of whole DOSI image 
is calculated as baseline and only higher intensity part of image than baseline is then segmented. 
The average intensity of segmented area is redefined as our measured signal of tissue 
oxygenation. We can observe the contrast of the VOT induced oxygenation response is improved 
more than 27% after binarize segmentation process in Fig. 3. It also implies that there is more 
useful information of DOSI measurement than hemoglobin detection from single source-detector 
pair. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 The image of deoxy-hemoglobin (Hb),oxy-hemoglobin (HbO2), total hemoglobin (THb) 
and tissue oxygen saturation (StO2) during VOT for a normal subject. 
 
 
Fig. 5 Temporal tracings of a normal control tissue oxygen saturation (StO2) and total 
hemoglobin (THb) response to a VOT assessment (the error bar indicates the standard deviation 
in the group). 
 
Figure 6 showed the THb and StO2curvesin response to the VOT in the patients with heart 
failure. Obviously, the average response of THb of the patients with heart failure is lower and 
slurred than that of the normal subjects. The StO2tracing was characterized with a stepwise 
decreasing pattern in patients with heart failure. 
 
Fig. 6 Temporal tracings of the VOT response from heart failure patients (the error bar indicates 
the standard deviation in the group. 
The tissue oxygenation tracings during the VOT of patients with sepsis were provided in 
Fig. 7. The curves show low and slow increasing in the THb tracing and decreasing in StO2 
tracing. 
 
Fig. 8(b) 
 
Fig. 8(c) 
 
Fig. 8(d) 
Fig. 8 The temporal differentials of (a) TH band (b) StO2 from various subjects. The zoom in 
curves from (c) occlusion (30 sec) to (d) release (100 sec). 
decreased, the tissue oxygenation signal changes with slow gradient implies the vessels are 
intermittently perfused. Therefore, the experimental results imply faulty autoregulation of local 
blood flow. The result indicates the recovery of microcirculation in Fig. 9 and it implies the 
feasibility for clinical diagnosis based on DOSI measurement. For qualitative comparison, the 
highest amplitude of tissue oxygenation change occurs at the beginning of VOT in healthy 
subjects, especially in change of oxy-hemoglobin concentration. Besides, the curves of 
deoxy-hemoglobin concentration increasing response are quite different in the three groups. As 
mention before, different temporal tracings reveal the different physiological conditions in 
subjects. On the other hand, the recovery time of total hemoglobin is much longer in septic 
patients than others. Although the scale of study subjects was small, the measurement of tissue 
oxygenation signals during VOT based on DOSI reveals large variability for clinical applications. 
Thus we speculate that the technique might be more useful for examining the effect of medication 
use in ICU. 
參考文獻 
1. Y. Hoshi, “Functional near-infrared spectroscopy: current status and future prospects,” J. 
Biomed. Opt. 12, 062106 (2007). 
2. D.A. Boas, T. Gaudette, G. Strangman, X. Cheng, J.J. A. Marota, and J. B. Mandeville, “The 
Accuracy of Near Infrared Spectroscopy and Imaging during Focal Changes in Cerebral 
Hemodynamics,”NeuroImage13,76–90 (2001). 
3. A. Yodh, and B. Chance, "Spectroscopy and imaging with diffusing light," Phys. Today 48, 
34-40 (1995). 
4. Y. Lin, G. Lech, S. Nioka, X. Intes, and B.Chance, “Noninvasive, low-noise, fast imaging of 
blood volume and deoxygenation changes in muscles using light-emitting diode 
continuous-wave imager,” Review of Scientific Instruments, 73(8),3065(2002). 
5. C. Casavola, L. A. Paunescu, S. Fantini, and E. Gratton, “Blood flow and oxygen 
consumption with near-infrared spectroscopy and venous occlusion: spatial maps and the 
effect of time and pressure of inflation,” J. of Biomed. Opt. ,5(3), 269–276(2000). 
6. R. A. De Blasi, M. Ferrari, A. Natali, G. Conti, A. Mega and A. Gasparetto, “Noninvasive 
measurement of forearm blood flow and oxygen consumption by near-infrared spectroscopy,” 
J. Appl. Physiol. 76, 1388-1393 (1994). 
7. D.A. Boas, T.Gaudette, G.Strangman, X.Cheng, J.J. A. Marota, and J.B. Mandeville, “The 
Accuracy of Near Infrared Spectroscopy and Imaging during Focal Changes in Cerebral 
Hemodynamics,”NeuroImage13, 76-90(2001). 
8. R. A. Meyer, “A linear model of muscle respiration explains monoexponential 
phosphocreatine changes,” Am. J. Physiol. 254, C548–553 (1988). 
9. R.A. De Blasi, S. Palmicani, D. Alampi, M. Mercieri, R. Romano, S. Collini, and G. Pinto, 
“Microvascular dysfunction and skeletal muscle oxygenation assessed by phase-modulation 
near-infrared spectroscopy in patients with septic shock,” Intensive Care Med. 31, 1661-1668 
(2005). 
10. M. Girardis, L. Rinaldi, S. Busani, I. Flore, S. Mauro, A. Pasetto, “Muscle perfusion and 
oxygen consumption by near-infrared spectroscopy in septic-shock and non-septic-shock 
patients,” Intensive Care Med. 29, 1173-1176 (2003). 
況︾研究成果之學術或應用價值︾是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利︾
主要發現或其他有關價值等︽作一綜合評估 
This proposal is to request support for the investigation of diagnosis/monitoring system by using 
diffuse optical tomography in intensive care medicine. Three main objectives are: (1) to develop 
an optical imaging system based on diffuse optics, (2) to optimize the optode scheme and 
reconstruction algorithm for clinical applications, and (3) to apply the system for ICU patients 
monitoring. As the report given above, we have developed a continuous-wave diffuse optical 
spectroscopic imaging system with dual-wavelength optode. Besides, the binarize segmentation 
method was adopted for enhancement of hemodynamic signal in experiments. The result 
indicates the feasibility for ICU monitoring with successful in VOT measurement of sepsis and 
heart failure patients. Therefore, the goals of research plan are almost reached. 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研究成果受本年度 Asia Communications &amp； Photonics Conference &amp；
Exhibition (ACP 2010) 受 邀 演 講 (invited presentation) ， 題 目 為
「 Development of Diffuse Optical Imaging Systems for Clinical 
Applications」。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
