therefore affects the communication. Hence, 
communication in vehicular distributed systems is 
essential for a wide range of important applications. 
By combining the communication paradigm between the 
WASN and VANET can give a complete application based 
solution to the vehicles in the freeway, city or any 
campus. Though, simulation based solution could be 
provided to evaluate the performance of such 
applications, realistic communication model for 
VANETs and WASNs is critical for maintaining an 
accurate network environment. 
英文關鍵詞： Vehicular Ad hoc NETworks (VANETs), Wireless Ad hoc 
Sensor Networks (WASNs), modeling, 
 
 2
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
附件二
 4
中文摘要 
現行的智慧型運輸系統具有先進技術及專業需求，車間之通訊的主要考量是區域性，而這個區域性是
車用隨意網路 (Vehicular Ad hoc NETworks: VANETs) 未來的發展趨勢。車輛對路旁感測裝置
(Vehicle-to-roadside)通訊在方向性短功率通訊(dedicated short-range communications: DSRC)，已經加速
應用在許多 DSRC 的重要議題上，例如：車輛駕駛者安全應用、道路壅塞控制、自動化的車、即時交
通 監 控 及 用 路 人 行 動 網 際 網 路 服 務 等 。 此 外 ， 無 線 隨 意 感 測 網 路 (Wireless Ad hoc Sensor 
Networks :WASNs)也被應用在監控停車區域，提供用路人極為便利及節省時間的停車資訊。在
VANET，車輛透過彼此無線通訊，而可在更高的交通流量中移動。以觀察車輛密集程度、相對應車速
及車道數目等關鍵因素，來解決連結點及通訊間的影響。因此，分散的車子間的通訊對大範圍的應用
而言是相當重要的。藉由結合 WASN 和 VANET 的連結通訊範例，可以使車輛在高速公路或都會區有
一個很完整的應用。雖然，模擬取向的作法可以提供這些應用的數據分析，WASN 和 VANET 的實際
通訊模型是很重視維護真實網路環境的。 
英文摘要 
With advent of advanced technologies and special need for the service of Intelligent Transportation Systems 
(ITS), communication between vehicles is considered a prime area where Vehicular Ad hoc NETworks 
(VANETs) are likely to be deployed in the near future. Vehicle-to-roadside communication under the umbrella 
of dedicated short-range communications (DSRC) has fuelled significant interest in applications of DSRC to 
driver-vehicle safety applications, congestion control, automated vehicles, real-time traffic monitoring, and 
mobile Internet services for passengers. Besides, Wireless Ad hoc Sensor Networks (WASNs) can be highly 
useful in monitoring the parking lots by providing information about availability of parking space to the driver 
making driving convenient and in saving time. In a VANET, vehicles move within the constraints of traffic 
flow while communicating with each other via wireless links. It is observed that the vehicle density, relative 
velocity and number of lanes are the key factors, which influence the node connectivity and therefore affects 
the communication. Hence, communication in vehicular distributed systems is essential for a wide range of 
important applications. By combining the communication paradigm between the WASN and VANET can give 
a complete application based solution to the vehicles in the freeway, city or any campus. Though, simulation 
based solution could be provided to evaluate the performance of such applications, realistic communication 
model for VANETs and WASNs is critical for maintaining an accurate network environment. 
 6
connectivity among vehicles on routing. In [1], authors describe effect of several mobility models on 
inter-vehicle communications. Among these models, authors propose the car following model to compute 
velocity and distance between two cars. In VANET, communication of vehicles uses the velocity and distance 
of the vehicles. Hence, such car following model is useful to develop connectivity models taking speed of the 
vehicles. The realistic traffic includes intersection, traffic signals and traffic density. Several researchers [2], 
[3] use traffic information to design the mobility modeling of traffic information system about vehicle. But, 
the traffic information must include the length of vehicles and safe distance. In [5], authors consider the 
car-following model based on the space and velocity, and control the car acceleration to keep the rider 
comfortable. However, this paper does not analyze the connectivity taking car-following model into account. 
In [6], authors utilize a fluid model and traffic flow to plan optimizing connectivity. Besides, they use a 
stochastic model to capture the randomness of individual vehicles. Considering the vehicular density, they 
determine the probability of communication to verify the connectivity. In this paper, we consider a city 
scenario with two lane road and use the street-aware information and car following model to analyze the 
connectivity among vehicles. We consider the safe distance and length of vehicle in analyzing the 
connectivity, when the vehicles either wait at the traffic square or pass through it after getting the traffic signal 
clearance. 
   Sensing coverage is a fundamental problem in wireless sensor networks and has been well studied over 
past few years. However, most of the previous works address only one kind of redundancy, i.e. sensing or 
communication alone. The authors in [7, 8] address how to combine consideration of coverage and 
connectivity maintenance in a single activity scheduling. In both of the work, it is proved that the 
communication range is at least twice of the sensing range. Based on the deployment nature of the wireless 
sensor networks, the authors in [9] consider the communication range is twice of the sensing range, which is 
the sufficient condition and tight lower bound to ensure that complete coverage preservation implies 
connectivity among active nodes, if the original network topology is connected. Though, all of these said 
works prove sufficient conditions for the coverage and connectivity, maintenance of the network due to loss 
of coverage or connectivity is not discussed. 
The work in [10] addresses the area coverage problem with equal sensing and communicating radii. 
Though, they consider the WSN with equal sensing and communicating radii, their main goal is to minimize 
the number of selected sensors to be either active or sleep and they do not talk how to manage the 
connectivity and coverage due to death of a node. In [11], authors have proposed algorithms with which 
mobile sensors can track and converge on a series of events while also ensuring complete sensor coverage of 
their environment. However, it requires a large amount of computational cost to track all the sensors in the 
network and to find motion of every other sensor. A mathematical model to describe the redundancy in 
randomly deployed sensor networks is proposed in [12], where the authors present simple formulae to 
estimate the probability that a sensor is completely redundant and to estimate the average partial redundancy. 
The theoretical analysis of the work discusses observation concerning the minimum and maximum number of 
neighbors that are required to provide complete redundancy. In [13], authors investigate the criterion to decide 
whether a sensor is redundant, and propose an improved method to determine, if a sensor is completely 
covered by its neighbors, especially for boundary sensors. However, the authors consider that the 
communication range is less than twice of the sensing range and do not talk about the network maintenance. 
 
 8
Methods: (研究方法) 
Connectivity Modeling in VANET:      
     Consider a two lane urban road with several intersections. As shown in Fig. 1, every intersection has 
traffic signals so that vehicles need to stop only at the signals that are red and drive through the signals that 
are green. Any vehicle approaching the intersection must stop at the signal for a fixed waiting period if the 
signal is red. Any vehicle at the intersection may drive straight; turn to left or right after reaching at a traffic 
square. For example, as shown in Fig. 1, vehicles traveling along lanes ܣ may drive either through lanes ܲ, ܳ, 
or ܴ after arriving at the traffic square ܶ. Each vehicle’s motion is governed by the vehicle in front of it as 
they maintain a safe distance, which is quite reasonable as a vehicle moving on a road can never move further 
than the vehicle that is moving in front of it. When vehicles follow each other to the traffic sign, they form a 
queue at the intersections and wait for a fixed amount of time before crossing the intersection when it reaches 
the front of the queue. 
 
Figure 1: The city scenario considered in our research. 
     Let, the distance between the source ݅ to any destination ݆ be ݀݅,݆ . We utilize the distance of the source 
to a destination and analyze the duration of communication from the source vehicle to three different 
destinations. Any two vehicles are said to be connected if radio range of a vehicle ܴܿ < ݀݅,݆ . Considering 
speed of the source node as ܸ݅, the duration of connectivity between the source node ݅ and any destination ݆, ݇ 
and ݈ can be formulated as given in equation 1, 2, 3, respectively. 
 
The distance between any source ݅ and destination ݆, ݇ or ݈, which is ݀݅,݆ ,݀݅,݇ and ݀݅,݈, respectively could be 
 10
As soon as the nodes are deployed over the monitoring region, each node starts calculating its grid id from its 
location information. Then, nodes flood beacon packets with their location information and grid id to estimate 
the critical sensing points (CSP), disjoint transmission set (DTS) and selects the head nodes in each of its DTS.  
If a node in the network is dead due to its power exhaustion (predictable death) or accidentally dead due to 
explosion or technical failure (unpredictable death), connectivity with its neighbors is lost and the existing 
coverage of the network may be deteriorated, unless it is a redundant node. Hence, the network should be 
maintained with some prior arrangements, taking its Available Distance (AVD) of mobility, so that nodes can 
move immediately as soon as such problem is occurred. For this, we assume that beacon packets are 
exchanged periodically among the one-hop neighbors of each node to know the location information of the 
corresponding nodes. Then, each node starts calculating the AVD in terms of Maximum Transmission 
Mobility Distance (MTMD) and Maximum Sensing Mobility Distance (MSMD). 
Calculation of MTMD: 
The Maximum Transmission Mobility Distance (MTMD) of a node is defined as the maximum distance that a 
node can move from its current position to the position of the sender, which is assumed to be a dead node, 
such that connectivity is not broken between itself and with all of its head nodes of its DTSs. Upon receiving 
the beacon packet, a node (receiver) reclassifies its head node list and DTSs without considering the sender. It 
is obvious that the distance between each head node and the receiver must be <= Rc, since they are connecting 
neighbors. Then, the receiver node finds points on the line joining the sender to the receiver such that the 
point is Rc units away from each of its head nodes. The distance between the nearest points to the receiver is 
termed as MTMD of that receiver as shown in Fig. 3. 
 
Figure 3. (a) D1 and D2 are DTSs of node A and are represented by the dotted curves. D3, D4, D5 and D6 are 
the DTSs of P and are represented by the solid curves. (b) Taking A as a sender and P as a receiver, shortest 
distance from each head nodes of P is estimated without taking sender A. (c) PP’ is the required MTMD of P. 
If A is dead, each of its head nodes can be connected with it. P’ is the new position of P after mobility. 
Calculation of MSMD: 
The Maximum Sensing Mobility Distance (MSMD) of a node is defined as the maximum distance that a node 
can move without introducing any coverage problem in the existing network. MSMD is estimated by a node 
that wants to move due to accidental death of its neighbors and ensures that the existing coverage is still 
preserved and is not affected due to its mobility. The MSMD calculation is shown in Fig. 4. 
 12
each vehicle has to stop for a predefined fixed time before moving straight or turning to left or right. The 
simulation results in terms of duration of end-to-end packet delivery time and packet delivery ratio for 
different number of vehicles with and without changing the lanes. The end-to-end packet delivery time is 
defined as the duration of sending the first data packet until the last data packet delivery. Obviously, the 
end-to-end packet delivery time is related to the connectivity duration between the source vehicle that is 
passing through the traffic square and the destination vehicle that is static and is waiting for the traffic 
clearance. The connectivity among the source and destination vehicles is evaluated, when they pass through 
the traffic square. 
     It is observed that the duration of packet delivery decreases, if vehicles move slower. When the vehicles 
move without changing the lanes, the duration of packet delivery fluctuates with different size of the traffic as 
shown in Fig. 6. Duration of end-to-end packet delivery for different speed of the vehicles with change in 
direction is shown in Fig. 7. Here, the fixed length of vehicle of 5m is also considered. Duration of packet 
delivery is reduced if speed of the vehicles is increased. However, this duration fluctuates with increase in 
number of vehicles, though its value is smaller for higher number of vehicles. 
      
 
 
. 
     The end-to-end packet delivery ratio for different speed of the vehicles with fixed length (length=5m) 
and without change in direction is evaluated as shown in Fig. 8. It is observed that end-to-end packet delivery 
ratio decreases if speed of the vehicles is slower and the delivery ratio increases with increase in number of 
the vehicles. As shown in Fig. 9, the packet delivery ratio is better, when vehicles change their direction. 
Though the packet delivery ratio fluctuates with increase in number of vehicles, it gradually increases with 
increase in number of vehicles and speed when they change their existing direction.  
   
Figure 6: Duration of end-to-end packet delivery 
with fixed length of the vehicle (l=5m) without 
change in direction. 
Figure 7: Duration of end-to-end packet delivery 
with fixed length of the vehicle (l=5m) with 
change in direction 
Figure 8: End-to-end delivery ratio with fixed 
length of the vehicle (length=5m) without change 
in direction.  
Figure 9: End-to-end delivery ratio with fixed 
length of the vehicle (length=5m) with change in 
direction. 
 14
of communication ranges. Network lifetime is defined as the duration of time from the initial deployment until 
when the sensing coverage or connectivity of the network is lost due to death of a node. In order to better 
understand the effect of smaller and larger communication range on the network lifetime, we simulated our 
protocol with the baseline no replacement policy. The nodes at different locations are moved to maintain the 
network as soon as a node is dead. It is observed that network lifetime decreases with increase in 
communication range of a node. 
      
 
   
 
Conclusions: (結論) 
     In this project, traffic connectivity for the vehicular ad hoc networks is modeled taking various speed 
and safety distance between the cars that are running along bidirectional two lane roads. The connectivity at a 
large traffic square is analyzed when vehicles of different size pass through it. The connectivity is analyzed 
along the city roads where traffic signal is included in the analysis. Besides, the effect of change in lane due to 
overtaking of vehicles is also incorporated in the connectivity analysis. From the simulation result, it is 
observed that connectivity in terms of duration of packet delivery fluctuates with different speed of the 
vehicles and change in direction of vehicles also affects the connectivity. Besides, limited mobility based 
connectivity and coverage maintenance protocols for the multi-hop wireless sensor networks are designed. A 
distinguishing feature in our work is that communication range is equal to the sensing range (Rc = Rs) and 
mobility of nodes in our algorithms is limited within only one-hop neighbors of a dead node. Besides, our 
algorithms can also be useful to maintain the connectivity and coverage of the network for Rc < 2Rs. Our 
protocols can be applicable to unpredictable death of nodes, such as destruction of nodes due to explosion or 
technical failures and also work fine for the predictable death such as death due to energy exhaustion of the 
nodes. We design dynamic maintenance algorithms without disturbing the existing communication and 
coverage systems of the network. 
References:(參考文獻) 
[1] Marco Fiore, “Mobility Models in Inter-Vehicle Communications Literature”, Technical Report, 
November 2006. 
[2] Hugo Conceicao; Michel Ferreira, and Joao Barros, “A Cautionary View of Mobility and Connectivity 
Figure 12: Percentage of Coverage Deteriorations 
for Rc=20m and Rs=10m. 
Figure 13: Effect of various communication range 
on network lifetime for different values of mobility 
distance with fixed Rs=10m. 
 16
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：   年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：智慧型行車導航系統之設計與實作--子計畫四：智慧型
運輸系統通訊模式設計(I) 
計畫主持人：沙庫瑪 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-182-069 
領域：計算機網路與資料傳輸 
研發成果名稱 
（中文） 
（英文） 
成果歸屬機構  發明人 (創作人) 
 
技術說明 
（中文） 
 
 
 
（200-500 字） 
（英文） 
產業別 
 
技術/產品應用範圍 
 
附件三
 18
二、與會心得 
     IEEE 2nd International Conference on Computer Communication and Informatics was held at 
Coimbatore, India from 10th January~12th January, 2012. It is a premier international conference 
dedicated to address the emerging topics and challenges in Networking and Communications Systems. In 
the first day, the conference is inaugurated by Dr. P. Venkat Rangan, Vice Chancellor, Amirta Vishwa 
Vidhyapeetham University, Coimbatore, who stressed the need for growing research appetite among 
young researchers. Special address was delivered by Dr. A. Sivathanu Pillai, Distinguished Scientist, 
DRDO, CEO & Managing Director, Brahmos Aerospace, New Delhi. Talking to reporters on the sidelines 
of the conference, Dr. Pillai revealed the launch of the world’s fastest hypersonic missile, Brahmos. Dr. 
R.M Vasagam, Former Vice Chancellor, Anna University and Chairman – National Design and Research 
Forum, Bangalore delivered the keynote address. Shri Jagan Jothivel, Education Program Manager, 
INDIA & SAARC Countries, CISCO, Bengaluru delivered the lead paper and chaired the session. Dr. 
Mohd. Zaid Abdullah, Dean, Imaging and Mechatronics Engineering, Universiti Sains Malaysia and 
myself from Chang Gung University, Taiwan also delivered the lead papers. 
      During the valedictory address, Shri. Srikantan Moorthy, Senior Vice President and Group Head, 
Education & Research, Infosys, Bengaluru stressed the methodologies of applying research into 
fundamental issues. Shri. Sandip Kumar Banarjee, General Manager, Industrial Alliances, Oracle India, 
Kolkata delivered the special address, highlighting the current developments in the software industry. I 
was the session chair of the conference and have attended several technical sessions on Sensor and 
Wireless Networks, which gave me chance to learn a lot about the constraints and current research issues 
of wireless sensor networks.  
三、建議 
This is a very good conference and therefore researchers should participate this conference. 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Electronic Proceeding of the conference. 
 
 
Education & Research, Infosys, Bengaluru stressed the methodologies of applying research into 
fundamental issues. Shri. Sandip Kumar Banarjee, General Manager, Industrial Alliances, Oracle India, 
Kolkata delivered the special address, highlighting the current developments in the software industry. I was 
the session chair of the conference and have attended several technical sessions on Sensor and Wireless 
Networks, which gave me chance to learn a lot about the constraints and current research issues of wireless 
sensor networks.  
三、建議 
This is a very good conference and therefore researchers should participate this conference. 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Electronic Proceeding of the conference. 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：沙庫瑪 計畫編號：100-2221-E-182-069- 
計畫名稱：智慧型行車導航系統之設計與實作--子計畫四：智慧型運輸系統通訊模式設計(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 5 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
1. Prasan Kumar Sahoo*, J.-P. Sheu, ＇Limited Mobility Connectivity and Coverage 
Maintenance Algorithms for Wireless Sensor Networks＇, Computer Networks, 55(13): 
pp. 2856-2872, 2011. (SCI, EI), IF-2011: 1.2, Rank (Telecommunications): 28/78 
(Q2). 
2. Prasan Kumar Sahoo*, I.-S. Hwang, ＇Collaborative Localization Algorithms for 
Wireless Sensor Networks with Reduced Localization Error＇, Sensors, 11, pp. 
9989-10009, Oct, 2011. (SCI, EI), IF-2011: 1.739, Rank (Instruments & 
Instrumentation): 14/58 (Q1) 
3. H.-C. Ma, Prasan Kumar Sahoo*, Y.-W. Chen, ＇Distributed Coverage Hole Detection 
Protocol for the Wireless Sensor Networks＇, Journal of Network and Computer 
Applications, 34(5): pp. 1743-1756, Sept, 2011. (SCI, EI), IF-2011: 1.065, Rank: 
(Computer Science, Software Engineering): 36/103 (Q2). 
4. Prasan Kumar Sahoo*, ＇TDMA Based Slotted Medium Access Control Protocol for 
Wireless Sensor Networks＇, Sensors & Transducers Journal, Vol. 142, Issue 7, pp. 
33-43, July 2012, (EI). 
5. Prasan Kumar Sahoo*, I-S. Hwang, C.-Y. Cheng ＇Time-Synchronized versus 
Self-Organized K-Coverage Configuration in WSNs＇, IEEE ICCCI, Coimbatore, India, 
Jan, 2012. (EI) 
