 1
異質結構光電元件之研究與製作 
“Study and Fabrication of Heterostructural Optoelectronic Device” 
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-013-003-MY2 
執行期間：96年 8月 1日 至 98年 7月 31 日 
主持人：郭德豐 空軍軍官學校電子系教授 
共同主持人：劉文超 成功大學微電子所教授 
 
I. ABSTRATE 
In the first year of this two-year project, an 
ohmic-contact pnpn triangular-barrier 
optoelectronic switch (TBOS) has been 
fabricated. The triangular barrier is formed by 
inserting an InGaAs p-type delta-doped ( )( +pδ ) 
quantum well between two −n -GaAs layers. An 
S-shaped negative differential resistance (NDR) 
is obtained in the device characteristics. With a 
replacement of the ohmic-contact p-type cap 
layer with a Schottky-contact n-type layer in the 
pnpn TBOS, a Schottky-contact npn TBOS has  
been proposed in the second year. A double 
S-shaped NDR phenomenon is observed in the 
npn TBOS characteristics. Both devices show  
flexible optical functions as a result of the 
triangular barrier heights associated with 
incident light. 
 在本兩年計畫之第一年中，製作了一砷化
鎵-砷化銦鎵之甌姆接觸pnpn三角形位能障壁
光電元件，由於元件傳導特性中之累增崩潰及
電洞堆積，元件產生了雙穩態之特性；第二年
中，將第一年所研究之元件中之甌姆接觸p型
頂蓋層以一蕭特基接觸n型頂蓋層取代，以形
成一蕭特基接觸npn三角位形能障壁光電元
件，由於元件傳導特性中之連續累增崩潰及電
洞堆積，元件產生了三穩態之特性；由於在兩
元件特性中，入射光可改變元件之位能障壁，
故元件之特性能隨光強度而變化。 
關鍵詞:雙穩態，三穩態，光電元件 
 
II. INTRODUCTION 
Possessing potential applications in 
microwave oscillation and digital circuits, 
switches with negative-differential-resistance 
(NDR) characteristics have been devices of great 
features in the recent two decades [1-5]. 
Optoelectronic switches have also been applied 
widely in the areas of optoelectronic integrated 
circuits (OEICs) and optical computing for their 
photonic and electronic switching capabilities. 
Several optoelectronic switches based on pnpn 
structure have been proposed [6, 7]. These 
devices have bistable states switchable by optical 
or electrical input due to the hole accumulation 
at the potential minimum and the avalanche 
multiplication in the reverse-biased regions. 
However, minority-carrier storage might slow 
down the response speed of these devices. 
Furthermore, the bistable states could not 
effectively reduce the number of elements and 
process steps in actual circuit applications. In the 
first year of this two-year project, an 
ohmic-contact pnpn triangular-barrier 
optoelectronic switch (TBOS) is proposed. The 
triangular barrier, promising for minimizing the 
minority-carrier storage [8-11], is formed by 
inserting an InGaAs p-type delta-doped ( )( +pδ ) 
 3
in the )( +pδ  well, as shown in Fig.2(a). The 
accumulated holes will increase the 
two-dimensional free holes concentration P D2  
and compensate for some of the two-dimensional 
acceptor ions density DQ2  in the )(
+pδ  sheet. 
According to that the potential barrier φ  is 
proportional to DQ2 - DqP2  [12], the φ  will 
reduce, which will influence the switching 
characteristics of device TBOS-1. In the 
high-impedance OFF state, the emitter and 
collector junctions are both slightly forward 
biased, but the active layer is reversely biased. 
Due to high impedance of the depletion region of 
the active layer, almost all voltage is dropped in 
the active layer. As the applied voltage is 
increased to the switching voltage SV , the 
strong electric field across the active layer will 
be sufficient to cause an avalanche 
multiplication. The multiplied holes will move 
toward the emitter, and some of the holes will 
also be accumulated in the InGaAs δ ( )p+  well 
to lower the potential barrier φ . This potential 
redistribution process will cause an S-shaped 
NDR phenomenon in the experimental 
current-voltage (I-V) characteristics. Then, a 
low-impedance ON state is obtained. Because 
the characteristics of device TBOS-1 are 
influenced by the input light, the switching is 
controllable by changing the input light. 
For device TBOS-2 supplied with a light 
source and a positive CEV  voltage, the 
photogenerated electrons will travel toward the 
collector, while the photogenerated holes will 
move toward the emitter and part of the holes 
will be accumulated in the )( +pδ  well, as 
shown in Fig.2(b). The accumulated holes will 
also reduce the potential barrier φ . If the 
applied voltage CEV  is high enough, the electric 
field across the reverse-biases active layer will 
cause the first avalanche multiplication. The 
multiplied electrons will travel toward the 
collector, and the multiplied holes will move 
toward the emitter. Part of the holes will also be 
accumulated in the δ ( )p+  well to lower the 
potential barrier φ , and the electrons injected 
from the emitter to collector will, therefore, 
increase. This potential redistribution process 
will cause the first S-shaped NDR phenomenon 
in the experimental I-V characteristics. If the 
CEV  voltage is increased further, the voltage 
drop across the reverse-biased Schottky-contact 
junction will increase due to the accumulated 
holes in the δ ( )p+  well. Then the second 
avalanche multiplication can appear in the 
Schottky-contact junction. And the second 
S-shaped NDR phenomenon will be observed in 
the I-V characteristics. Therefore, device 
TBOS-2 will display three different operation 
states, i.e., the initial off-state, intermediate 
on-state and final on-state. Because the 
characteristics of device TBOS-2 are influenced 
by the input-light power, the switching is also 
controllable by changing the input-light. 
Figures 3(a) and (b) show the I-V 
characteristics of devices TBOS-1 and TBOS-2, 
respectively. The solid lines are the 
characteristics under dark and dotted lines the 
characteristics under illumination. A proposed 
bias circuit is illustrated in the inset of Fig.3(a) 
and load lines also depicted in Figs. 3(a) and (b). 
Single and double S-shaped NDR performances 
are respectively observed in devices TBOS-1 
and TBOS-2 characteristics under both dark and 
illumination conditions. For device TBOS-2 
under illumination, a lower values of CEV  
voltage, compared to the CEV  under dark, are 
 5
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Cross sections of devices (a) TBOS-1 
and (b)TBOS-2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Band diagrams of devices (a) TBOS-1 
and (b) TBOS-2 with a positive CEV  voltage. 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-013-003-MY2 
計畫名稱 異質結構光電元件之研究與製作 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
郭德豐  空軍軍官學校電子系  教授 
會議時間地點 Istanbul, Turkey, May 30 - June 1, 2009  
會議名稱 2009 International Conference on Microelectronics, Nanoelectronics, Optoelectronics (MINO '09) 
發表論文題目 npn Heterostructural Optoelectronic Switches (HSOSs) 
 
一、參加會議經過 
2009年國際微電子、奈米電子、光電子研討會(International Conference on 
Microelectronics, Nanoelectronics, Optoelectronics, MINO｀09)之舉行日期為 5月 30日至 6
月 1日，共計三天；本屆研討會與數個研討會合併舉行，包含了 International Conference 
on Automatic Control, Modeling and Simulation (ACMOS '09)、International Conference on 
Multivariate Analysis and its Application in Science and Engineering (MAASE '09)、
International Conference on Signal Processing (SIP '09)、International Conference on 
Telecommunications and Informatics (TELE-INFO '09)，參與專家學者除了來自我國外，計
有烏克蘭、喬治亞、拉脫維亞、香港、羅馬尼亞、波蘭、義大利、保加利亞、希臘、塞
爾維亞、加拿大、法國、韓國、美國、紐西蘭、日本、英國、及中國大陸等國；本屆MINO 
'09研討會會議內容涵蓋了 Nanoelectronics & Optical Engineering、Modelling and Control、
及 Advanced Microelectronics and Nanoelectronics等。 
筆者獲國科會之補助得以參加此次會議，由高雄小港國際機場搭機經香港轉機前往
土耳其。 
 
二、與會心得 
由於有數個研討會同時舉行，使本屆研討會相當熱鬧，也因此除了微電子、奈米電子、
光電子之領域外，亦有倖接觸到其他學術領域，參與這次研討會之專家學者不少來自學術
npn Heterostructural Optoelectronic Switches (HSOSs) 
 
Der-Feng Guo 
Department of Electronic 
Engineering 
Air Force Academy 
P.O. Box 14-49 Kangshan      
Kaohsiung County, TAIWAN   
Jung-Hui Tsai 
Department of Electronic 
Engineering 
Kaohsiung Normal University 
62 Shenjhong Road, Yanchao 
Kaohsiung County, TAIWAN 
Wen-Chau Liu 
Department of Electrical 
Engineering 
Cheng-Kung University, 
1 University Road, Tainan 
TAIWAN  
 
  
Abstract: - GaAs/InGaP and AlGaAs/GaAs/InAlGaP npn heterostructural optoelectronic switches (HSOSs) 
have been fabricated to demonstrate the bulk-barrier and potential-spike height effects on the switching. It is 
seen that the illumination decreases the switching voltage SV  and increases the switching current SI  in the 
GaAs/InGaP HSOS characteristics. But in the AlGaAs/GaAs/InAlGaP HSOS, the SV  and SI  present contrary 
trends. 
 
Key-Words: - optoelectronic switch; bulk barrier; potential spike 
 
1   Introduction 
Optoelectronic switches have attracted a 
considerable attention in the semiconductor research 
field due to their potential applications in optical 
computing systems and optoelectronic integrated 
circuits (OEICs) [1, 2]. With high gains and 
high-speed operations, npn heterostructures can be 
used to produce promising optoelectronic switches [3, 
4]. It is known that the bulk barrier and 
heterostructure-induced potential spike act important 
roles in the characteristics of the npn heterostructures 
[5, 6]. To investigate the effects of bulk barrier and 
potential spike heights on the optoelectronic 
switching of the npn heterostructures, GaAs/InGaP 
and AlGaAs/GaAs/InAlGaP npn heterostructural 
optoelectronic switches (HSOSs) have been 
fabricated. The studied HSOSs show quite different 
switching variations with incident light, which are 
mainly attributed to the bulk barrier and potential 
spike heights affected by photogenerated carriers. 
 
 
2   Experiment, Results and Discussion  
The structures of the GaAs/InGaP HSOS, named 
device HSOS-A hereafter, and 
AlGaAs/GaAs/InAlGaP HSOS, named device 
HSOS-B, are shown in Tables 1 and 2, respectively. 
Figures 1(a) and 1(b) respectively show the band 
diagrams of device HSOS-A and HSOS-B with 
incident photons under a positive CEV  voltage. As 
photons with energies higher than the band-gap 
energy of GaAs inject into device HSOS-A, 
electron-hole pairs will be photogenerated in the 
device. Owing to each InGaP layer thickness of only 
50Å and the low conduction-band discontinuity of the 
GaAs/InGaP system, the photogenerated electrons 
can pass the InGaP layers easily and reach the 
collector. And in the meanwhile, as shown in Fig.1(a), 
part of the photogenerated holes, transporting to the 
emitter, will be confined at the potential minimum, 
well A, with 50Å InGaP layers on both sides to 
enhance the hole confinement effect. The holes 
confined in well A will lower the bulk barrier. If the 
external voltage is high enough, the avalanche 
multiplication will occur in the reverse-biased i-GaAs 
layer between the +p -GaAs layer and collector layer. 
Thus an S-shaped NDR performance will be 
observed in the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics. 
In device HSOS-B, the collector structure is 
AsGaAl 7.03.0 / )(
+nδ /GaAs/ P)GaAl(In 5.03.07.05.0 . The 
AsGaAl 7.03.0  layer acts as a tunneling barrier. The 
)( +nδ  sheet builds up a high electric field distributed 
across the tunneling barrier and raises the tunneling 
probability of carriers through the barrier. The GaAs 
layer forms two wells, which are well B in the 
conduction band and well C in the valence band 
between the AsGaAl 7.03.0  and P)GaAl(In 5.03.07.05.0  
layers. The conduction-band discontinuity CE∆  and 
valence-band discontinuity VE∆  in the 
P)GaAl(In/GaAs 5.03.07.05.0  heterojunction are much 
larger than those in the 
GaAs/AsGaAl 7.03.0 heterojunction. As photons with 
energies higher than the band-gap energy of GaAs 
inject into device HSOS-B under a positive CEV  
voltage, electron-hole pairs will be photogenerated, 
