30    Recent Patents on Materials Science 2008, Vol. 1, No. 1 Tsung-Hua Yang 
Waals force. The activity of adsorbed enzymes is almost not 
affected; however, desorption of enzyme during the course 
of reaction is inevitable, especially in the presence of strong 
hydrodynamic situations. To overcome this problem, 
adsorbed enzymes can be stabilized with glutaraldehyde 
treatment, albeit it could denature some enzymes [26-28]. 
Method for Immobilizing Dissolved Proteins 
 US4839419 describes methods for adsorbing an enzyme 
onto a small-particle support by washing said support with 
an aqueous solution of the protein and cross-linking said 
protein with a coupling component present in aqueous 
electrolyte-containing solution [29]. It has been found that 
the immobilization of dissolved proteins on a solid 
macroporous support which is water insoluble, or at most 
slightly swellable in water, can be carried out in a one step 
process if an aqueous protein solution containing an 
electrolyte and having an ionic strength of at least 0.15 
mole/liter is allowed to wash over the support until the 
protein has been adsorbed thereon. If purely adsorptive 
immobilization is sufficient, the loaded support can simply 
be separated. As a rule, however, immobilization is stabili-
zed by means of a cross-linking agent before, during, or after 
such adsorption.  
 What is particularly surprising is that the method of the 
invention makes it possible readily to obtain high absolute 
activities and outstanding activity yield even on widely 
differing nonspecific supports, which absolute activities and 
yields otherwise could be obtained only after a complicated 
activation of the support. Once cross-linked, the enzyme 
remains bound to the support even at low ionic strength and 
can be reused many times without appreciable losses of 
activity. One of examples illustrating the embodiment of this 
invention is binding of penicillinamidase to Oxirane-
polyacrylamide resin with 85% activity yield and 172 U/g 
moist weight. 
 (2) Covalent bonding is the retention of enzymes on 
support surfaces by covalent bond formation. This method 
results in a stable combination of enzymes and supports; 
however, it suffers a disadvantage of possible enzyme deac-
tivation because of direct chemical modification [30-32]. 
Method for Immobilizing Enzyme 
 US4073689 relates to a method for immobilizing an 
enzyme utilizing the specific chemical reactivity of N-
halogenoamide group [33]. The N-halo-genoamide 
compound is formed as an intermediate com-pound in the 
Hofmann's decomposition of acid amide. That is, when an 
amide compound, e.g., homopolymers and graft polymers of 
acrylamide or methacrylamide, is reacted with a 
hypohalogenoxyacid ions (OX
-
) under strong alkalinity, an 
amine is formed through an N-halogenoamide compound. In 
an illustrative embodiment,-amylase was immobilized in 
the gel of polyacrylamide. The enzyme is immobilized to the 
polyacrylamide chains not only by physical but also by 
chemical bond and therefore, will not flow out even by 
repeated washings. 
Immobilized Aminoacylase Enzyme 
 US4608340 describes methods for immobilizing 
aminoacylase by covalent bonding of amino-acylase to a 
partially hydrolyzed Akrilex P type acryl-amide-N,N'-
methylene-bis (acrylamide) copolymer [34]. Covalent 
bonding is carried out by partially hydrolyzing the copoly-
mer with a base or an acid to form carboxy groups, acti-
vating the carboxy groups with a carbodiimide and coupling 
aminoacylase to the activated carboxy groups. An immo-
bilized aminoacylase enzyme product with binding capacity 
of 6.14 milliequivalents/g was prepared by the claimed 
process. 
Crosslinked Polyacrylamide-Sulfhydryl Polymer for 
Immobilization of Biologically Active Substances 
 US4898824 relates to the preparation of a water-
insoluble, cross-linked polyacrylamide copolymer having 
recurring monomeric residues of acrylamide, bisacrylamide 
or analogs thereof, and N,N'-bisacrylyl-cystamine or analogs 
thereof [35]. The cross-linked copoly-mer can be formed 
into discrete particles having cross-linking disulfide groups 
on their external surface which can be reduced to provide 
activated particles having exposed chemically active 
sulfhydryl groups. The activated poly-acrylamide particles 
are free of residual amino and car-boxylic acid groups and 
can be coupled with suitable biolo-gically active substances 
such as haptens, antigens, antibo-dies, lectins, enzymes, 
receptor proteins. An immo-bilized reagent comprising a 
glycopeptide covalently bound to the external sulfhydryl 
functional groups of the crosslinked polyacrylamide-
sulfhydryl gel particles was prepared. 
 (3) Entrapment is the physical enclosure of enzymes in 
suitable matrices. When immobilizing in a polymer matrix, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. (1). The polymerization of acrylamide. 
H2C CH
C O
NH2
+ H2C CH
C O
NH
CH2
NH
C O
CHH2C
CH2 CH
C
CH2
O
NH2
CH
C O
NH
CH2
NH
C O
C
H
CH2 C
H
C O
NH2
CH2
Representative segment of cross-linked polyacrylamide
N,N'-methylenebisacrylamide
32    Recent Patents on Materials Science 2008, Vol. 1, No. 1 Tsung-Hua Yang 
peutic agent in solution phase. The microspheres are loaded 
with the agent by diffusion. 
Hydrogels and Water Soluble Polymeric Carriers for 
Drug Delivery 
 US7186413 includes carriers for drug delivery, methods 
of making such carriers and for associating them to drugs, 
the resulting carrier and drug combination and methods for 
drug delivery, particularly controlled or sustained release 
delivery, using such carrier and drug combinations [53]. A 
part of this invention involves modifying polymers, e.g., 
polyacrylamides, so that they can reversibly bind multiple 
molecules of drug per molecule of polymer. Any polymer 
which is biocompatible, water-soluble, preferably of less 
than 80,000 dalton molecular weight and can be bonded by a 
degradeable covalent bond to a drug, can be used. The 
conjugate of drug and polymer can be injected as a prodrug 
which will give a sustained release of active drug over time, 
i.e., as the degradeable bond hydrolyzes. This method can be 
used as a means to decrease the toxicity of the free drug, 
economize on the amount of drug given by increasing 
circulation time, and help to solubilize hydrophobic drugs. 
For example, because the active form of the drugs are 
released over time, the concentration of the active form of 
the drug at any given time can be minimized to levels where 
it is not substantially detrimental to certain organs. Further, 
conjugation with the polymer can be used to prevent a large 
portion of the drug from being eliminated through the 
kidneys before it has been able to act on the desired area. 
The linking of the polymer to the drug can be carried out 
through any of a number of chemistries which will provide a 
degradable covalent bond between the polymer and the drug 
or a prodrug which is degradably covalently bonded to 
release the active drug. For example, for the water-soluble 
polymeric drug carriers aspect of the invention, economical 
poly-hydrazides can be synthesized from low molecular 
weight polyacrylamides (Fig. 2). Hydrazinolysis of aqueous 
50% w/w polyacryl-amide in water (molecular weight 
average=10,000, 50 ml) by refluxing for three hours with 
aqueous hydrazine (35% w/w, 100 ml) yielded the 
poly(acrylic hydrazide-co-acrylamide) in quantitative yield. 
The product was precipitated by the addition of an equal 
volume of ethanol. The product was dried under reduced 
pressure. The solid was re-dissolved in water and dialyzed 
extensively until the dialysate gave a negative TNBS test. 
The solution was frozen and lyophilized to yield a white 
powder. TNBS analysis of the product indicated that 52% of 
the amide groups of polyacrylamide were transformed to 
hydrazide groups. The degree of substitution of amide 
groups can be controlled by varying the temperature, time, 
and equivalents of hydrazide used. 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. (2). Synthesis of poly-hydrazides from low molecular weight 
polyacrylamides. 
Enhanced Skin Penetration System for Improved Topical 
Delivery of Drugs 
 US5874095 involves pharmaceutical compositions 
comprising certain specific non-ionic polymers which may 
be applied topically to the skin and which result in improved 
transdermal penetration of the drugs through the skin [54]. 
These compositions also have a high solvent tolerance, i.e., 
high level of solvents such as alcohol and other water-
soluble components which may be necessary to solubilize 
the active can be included in the compositions. The non-
ionic polymers useful in the present invention are 
polyacrylamides and substituted polyacrylamides, branched 
or unbranched. These polymers are non-ionic water-
dispersable polymers which can be formed from a variety of 
monomers including acrylamide and methacrylamide which 
are unsubstituted or substituted with one or two alkyl groups 
(preferably C1 -C5). These non-ionic polyacrylamides having 
a molecular weight of from about 1,000 kDa to about 30,000 
kDa are present at a level from about 0.05% to about 20%. 
Compositions for anti-acne and/or analgesic, dermatological 
disorders, sunless tanning, are made utilizing conventional 
mixing techniques and display skin penetration of the actives 
as well as improved skin feel and residue characteristics 
together with excellent moisturizing, emolliency, rub-in and 
absorption characteristics. 
Alcohol-Free Transdermal Insulin Composition and 
Processes for Manufacture and Use Thereof 
 US7033998 discloses a dermal delivery system com-
position comprising an aqueous base vehicle including 
American Emu oil, Isopropyl Palmitate (PROT ACHEM 
IPP), PEG-8 (a polyethylene glycol available under the trade 
name PROTACHEM 400), methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) 
and SEPIGEL 305 (a combination including poly-
acrylamide/C13-C14 Iso-paraffin and Laureth-7) in com-
bination with a therapeutically affective amount of at least 
one species of insulin, and to processes for the manufacture 
and use thereof [55]. Application of a transder-mal insulin 
delivery system/composition in accordance with this 
invention demonstrated that the insulin transdermally entered 
the circulatory system in therapeutically effective quantities, 
thereby affecting a change in sugar levels in the body. 
Cross-Linked Polymeric Nanoparticles and Metal 
Nanoparticles Derived Therefrom 
 US7189279 provides a process for preparing internally 
cross-linked, stable polymeric materials, in the form of 
substantially spherical particles, each particle consisting 
essentially of a single macromolecule [56]. They can be 
prepared by dissolving polymeric material in a solvent 
system to form a solution of the polymeric material at a 
concentration therein of less than the critical concentration 
for the polymer, causing the polymeric material to contract 
into an approximately spheroidal conformation in solution, 
cross-linking the polymeric material in solution in said 
spheroidal conformation so assumed, and recovering stable, 
cross-linked approximately spheroidal polymeric particles 
from the solution. Polymer particles of very small size, 
average diameter in the range 0.1-10 nanometers 
(nanoparticles), can be made in this way. Examples of useful 
polymers in the present invention include polymers and 
H2N
O
OH2N
NH2NH2
H2N
O
OHN
NH2
polyacrylamide poly(acrylic hydrazide-co-acrylamide)
34    Recent Patents on Materials Science 2008, Vol. 1, No. 1 Tsung-Hua Yang 
mixture contains a poly-N-acetylacrylamide or polyvinyl 
alcohol and polyethylene glycol, polyacrylamide or 
polymethacylamide. According to the invention, by fixing a 
ligand having the ability to recognize molecules, the 
aforementioned inter-polymer complex can be broadly 
applied to separating agents, assay reagents, immobilized 
enzymes, denatured protein modifiers, separation method or 
concentration of microorganisms, purification or 
concentration of nucleic acids, drug-releasing microcapsules 
and the like. One of examples illustrating the embodiment of 
this invention is the preparation of an inter-polymer complex 
of poly-N-acetylacrylamide and polya-crylamide. When 1.3 
g of poly-N-acetylacrylamide having a molecular weight of 
about 13,000 was mixed with 1.4 g of polyacrylamide 
having a molecular weight of about 14,000 in 10 g of 
purified water, an inter-polymer complex was formed. The 
thus obtained inter-polymer complex showed lower critical 
solution temperature (LCST) in the aqueous solution, and the 
temperature was 2 both at the time of temperature up and 
temperature down. In this connection, measurement of LCST 
was carried out after adjusting pH of the aqueous solution to 
7.4. 
Gels with a Shape Memory 
 US6538089 relates to a physically cross-linked 
copolymer comprising hydrophobic monomers, hydrogen 
bonding monomers, and thermosensitive mono-mers, said 
thermosensitive monomers having a distinct phase change at 
its lower critical solution temperature (LCST) when existing 
as a homopolymer [67]. This completely novel, non-
chemically cross-linked, thermo-sensitive poly-mer can 
separates from the solution on increasing tempe-rature at or 
over its lower critical solution temperature (LCST) to form a 
physically cross-linked temporary gel, to yield the shape of 
the holding vessel. This gel can shrink substantially but still 
maintain the shape of the vessel. The shrunken polymer gel 
can be reshaped in another form, simply by dissolution on 
cooling below its lower critical solution temperature (LCST) 
and repeating the casting process using a different shaped 
vessel. Preferably, the thermosensitive physically cross-
linked gel is formed only at a narrowly defined combination 
of three monomers, 1) N-isopropyl acrylamide (48-58%); 2) 
N-acryloyl hydroxy-succinimide (23-33%) and 3) styrene 
(19-23%). The physically cross-linked copolymer is used for 
drug delivery system or for enzyme delivery system. The 
physically cross-linked copolymer is also used for casting 
shapes of cavities, for production of miniaturized, detailed 
micro-parts or micro-machine parts, or for production of 
thermal switches. 
Interactive Molecular Conjugates 
 US5998588 relates to the combination of the capabilities 
of stimuli-responsive components such as polymers and 
interactive molecules to form site-specific conjugates which 
are useful in a variety of assays, separations, processing, and 
other uses is disclosed [68]. The polymer chain conformation 
and volume can be manipulated through alteration in pH, 
temperature, light, or other stimuli. The interactive 
molecules can be biomolecules like proteins or peptides, 
such as antibodies, receptors, or enzymes, polysaccharides or 
glycoproteins which specifically bind to ligands, or nucleic 
acids such as antisense, ribozymes, and aptamers, or ligands 
for organic or inorganic molecules in the environment or 
manufacturing processes. The stimuli-responsive polymers 
are coupled to the recognition biomole-cules at a specific site 
so that the polymer can be manipu-lated by stimulation to 
alter ligand-biomolecule binding at an adjacent binding site, 
for example, the biotin binding site of streptavidin, the 
antigen-binding site of an antibody or the active, substrate-
binding site of an enzyme. Binding may be completely 
blocked (i.e., the conjugate acts as an on-off switch) or 
partially blocked (i.e., the conjugate acts as a rheostat to 
partially block binding or to block binding only of larger 
ligands). Once a ligand is bound, it may also be ejected from 
the binding site by stimulating one (or more) conjugated 
polymers to cause ejection of the ligand and whatever is 
attached to it. Alternatively, selective partition-ing, phase 
separation or precipitation of the polymer-conjugated 
biomolecule can be achieved through exposure of the 
stimulus-responsive component to an appropriate 
environmental stimulus. Examples demonstrate formation of 
a site-specific conjugate by genetically engineering a protein, 
streptavidin, to insert a coupling site, then coupling a 
temperature-responsive polymers, polyNIPAAm, to the 
coupling site. The physical relationship of the polymer to the 
biotin binding site of the streptavidin is controlled by 
altering the temperature of the reaction; i.e., at low 
temperatures, 100% of the biotin is bound, at higher 
temperatures, 3, significantly less biotin is bound. 
POLYACRYLAMIDE-BASED MATRICES IN EXTRA-
CORPOREAL TOXIN REMOVAL MODALITIES 
 An extracorporeal toxin removal modality refers to the 
device placed outside the body where blood totally or 
partially diverted from the heart or arterial system is 
subjected to processing to remove unwanted toxic substan-
ces, and subsequently returned to the circulation. The extra-
corporeal devices have been conceived to be simple, efficient 
and economical to the patients; their easy accessibility, lower 
chances of infection and immune rejection, as well as the 
avoidance of a major traumatic surgical procedure have 
made these devices popular [69-72]. 
 The role that polyacrylamide plays in an extracorporeal 
toxin removal modality is similar to that it play in enzyme 
immobilization. That is, to provide a support matrix for 
immobilization of the functional parts or ligands. Because of 
its chemical inertness as well as the stability over various 
conditions, polyacrylamide has been employed, whether 
clinically or under development, to serve as a useful matrix 
for several types of extracorporeal toxin removal devices, as 
can be exemplified by the following patents. 
Method for Eliminating Potentially Toxic and/or 
Harmful Substances 
 WO02081006 describes a method for eliminating 
potentially toxic and/or harmful substances, wherein 
particles which are capable of binding, taking up and/or 
carrying the toxic and/or harmful substances, are removed 
from a body fluid in an extracorporeal step or in an extrinsic 
or exogeneous device [73]. A particular advantage of the 
method according to the present invention is that toxic 
therapeutic agents can be removed after their peak effect by 
means of the particulate carrier from a suitable body fluid, in 
36    Recent Patents on Materials Science 2008, Vol. 1, No. 1 Tsung-Hua Yang 
large quantities of protein with the potential for high 
capacity removal.  
 Up until the present invention, the use of particular 
particles for extracorporeal reactors has been limited by the 
packing of the solid phase in the device. In order to use an 
extracorporeal reactor with particles at clinically useful 
blood flow rates, ranging from 100-1000 ml/min, a method 
of maintaining the beads in a fluidized state is required. In 
the present invention, the particular supports are maintained 
in suspension in the reactor by a combination of high speed 
recirculation and multi-directional agitation away from the 
direction of recirculation. The particles are formed of a 
biocompatible material which is selected for stability both to 
the biological solution and to the agitation. The particles are 
limited to a size range between that which can be freely 
recirculated and agitated by the reactor and that which can be 
restrained within the reactor. The maximum flow rate is 
limited by the stability of the particles. Suggested particle 
materials include agarose, cross linked dextran, polyhy-
droxyl ethyl methacrylate, polyacrylamide, cellulose, and 
derivatives or combinations thereof, preferably in the form 
of porous spheres. In the primary application of a device 
constructed according to this method, heparin is removed 
from blood in series with an extracorporeal device such as a 
dialysis unit or a blood oxygenator. 
Removal of Metabolic Components from Blood 
 US7066900 relates to various methods and apparatus for 
removing unwanted components from blood or plasma using 
membrane-based electrophoresis [85]. In one aspect, a 
system for removing or reducing con-centration of a 
metabolic component from blood or plasma includes a first 
and second ion-permeable barrier, each having a defined 
pore size, which is disposed in an electric field area. A 
treatment chamber is formed between the first and second 
ion-permeable barrier. A structure cools the blood or plasma. 
Another structure provides dialysate to a cathode zone and 
an anode zone. A transporting device provides blood or 
plasma to the treatment chamber. Upon application of the 
electric potential, a metabolic component from the blood or 
plasma moves through at least one barrier into one of the 
cathode or anode zones. Preferably, the barriers are hydrogel 
membranes formed from polyacryl-amide or any other 
suitable polymer. In another aspect, a method for removing 
or reducing concentration of a metabolic component in blood 
or plasma includes placing blood or plasma from the subject 
in a treatment chamber of an electrophoresis system. 
Applying an electric potential between the cathode and 
anode causes movement of a metabolic component from the 
blood or plasma though a barrier into at least one of the 
electrode zones. This application step is maintained until the 
desired amount of removal of the metabolic component from 
the blood or plasma is achieved. The blood or plasma in the 
treatment chamber is returned to the subject. This method 
does not result in heating the blood or plasma above 
physiological temperature.  
 In current renal dialysis therapies, phosphate and proble-
matic middle molecules are not adequately removed. To 
identify that the in vitro process based on the electrophoresis 
system technology with polyacrylamide membranes was 
capable of removing uremic wastes and that the measured 
biocompatibility markers demonstrated no significant 
adverse effect, an animal study was conducted. The results 
of uremic toxins (urea, uric acid, creatinine, phosphate and 
-2-microglobulin) removal experiments from the phase 1 
animal study have identified that the electrophoresis system 
was capable of being used as a medical device. The animal 
study established the in vivo biocompatibility of the claimed 
electrophoresis system in an ovine model. 
NON-ABSORBABLE SOFT TISSUE FILLERS IN 
RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY OR FOR COSMETIC 
PURPOSES 
 The use of mini-invasive techniques is well-known in 
modern reconstructive plastic and cosmetic surgery. Many of 
these techniques involve the use of fillers. An ideal filler 
should be safe and effective; it should be biocompatible, 
nonimmunogenic, easily obtainable, nonreabsorbable, low in 
cost, and easily stored. It should also be easy to remove if 
necessary. Biocompatibility is considered to be an indispen-
sable condition for dermal fillers, and it is basically deter-
mined by the host tissue response to implants [86-89]. 
 Polyacrylamide gels have been widely used in Europe 
and China for more than 10 years as implants for recon-
structive surgery and soft tissue augmentation [90-92]. 
Approximately 30,000 patients underwent injection of 
polyacrylamide hydrogel for soft tissue augmentation during 
this period. Retrospective analyses were conducted indi-
cating that polyacrylamide hydrogel is well tolerated and 
does not cause evident soft-tissue reactions. The biocom-
patibility and toxicity of the polyacrylamide component have 
been well characterized. For example, according to Kebu-
ladze et al.’s reports [93], polyacrylamide hydrogel has been 
well tolerated in the subcutaneous compartment and in 
glandular breast tissue, and unlike other products used for 
augmentation, such as silicone and collagen gel, polyacryl-
amide hydrogel stays in place at the injection site without 
being degraded or displaced. Furthermore, capsule shrinkage 
caused by the development of a thick, firm, disfiguring 
connective tissue capsule, which may be found around 
silicone prostheses, has never been reported or observed. The 
amount of injected polyacrylamide hydrogel varies from 80 
to 360 ml/breast, and biopsy specimens from the breast 
tissue surrounding the gel have given evidence of very 
modest tissue reactions, even up to 10 years after the 
injection. 
 The following recent patents give us more examples 
regarding applications of polyacrylamide gels as soft tissue 
fillers. 
Polyacrylamide Hydrogel and its Use as an 
Endoprosthesis 
 European Patent EP1418188 relates to the biostable 
hydrogel obtainable by (1) combining acrylamide and 
methylene bis-acrylamide in amounts so as to give about 0.5 
to 25% by weight polyacrylamide, based on the total weight 
of the hydrogel; (2) radical initiation; and (3) washing with 
pyrogen-free water or saline solution. The bio-stable 
hydrogel typically has a molecular weight between 0.01 x 
10
6
 and 20 x 10
6
 [94]. The polymer is resistant to biological 
degradation and is not permeable through biological 
membranes. The polyacrylamide hydrogel of the invention is 
38    Recent Patents on Materials Science 2008, Vol. 1, No. 1 Tsung-Hua Yang 
viscoelastic packing arrangements as shell deforms in 
different positions when breast implant receiver moves in 
different direction. Accordingly, it would be a significant 
contribution to the medical device art to eliminate the major 
problem of bleeding or leakage and transudation from 
mammary prosthetic surgical implant by providing a non-
bleeding harmless filler material capable of being used with 
existing mammary device manufacturing and breast surgical 
procedures practiced in the U.S. or elsewhere. 
CURRENT & FUTURE DEVELPOMENTS 
 Nowadays, polyacrylamide not only remains the most 
popular medium for use in all electrophoretic methods, but 
also has demonstrated relative merits compared with other 
biomaterials in various applications, as shown in Table 1. 
Indeed, it is easily perceived that there is still enormous 
space and opportunity for research and development of poly-
acrylamide-related technology in the field of biomaterials. 
The interests of immobilizing enzymes to/within polyacryl-
amide matrix for processing of products could be further 
directed to biomedical aspects such as in biosensor or 
diagnostic kits using the unique advantageous properties of 
immobilized enzymes [98]. Also, the combination of stimuli-
responsive materials based on polyacrylamide or its deriva-
tives with nanotechnology would improve the efficacy of 
conventional drug delivery system [47,99,100]. Moreover, 
with the advent of new concept and creativity, it is of 
particular promise that polyacrylamide might help resolve 
some critical issues long existing in conventional extra-
corporeal toxin removal therapies [82,101]. Lastly, the 
search for an ideal filler material for use in reconstructive 
and cosmetic surgery has been an ongoing effort. Although 
polyacrylamide has been used as a soft tissue filler for 
decades in some countries, its long term efficacy and safety 
remain controversial to date [102]. Therefore, improvement 
of its biocompatibility as well as careful evaluation of 
follow-ups with larger sample size would be necessary 
before polyacrylamide can be more acceptable and find 
approval in more countries [103-108]. In summary, current 
researches and achievements of polyacrylamide have there-
fore well demonstrated its versatility and usefulness as bio-
materials. Further developments of polyacrylamide-asso-
ciated technologies will undoubtedly enhance the value and 
broaden the possibilities of applications of polyacrylamide in 
the field of biomaterials. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
 This study and preparation of the manuscript was 
supported in part by the National Science Council. Contract 
grant number: NSC 96-2221-E-230-011. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Raymond S. Weintraub. Acrylamide gel as a supporting medium for 
zone electrophoresis. Science 1959; 130: 711-713. 
Table 1. Relative Advantages of Polyacrylamide Compared with Other Biomaterials 
Applications Relative Advantages Compared with : 
Enzyme 
immobilization 
• enhanced stabilities for operation or against heat 
treatment, changes in pH, and urea denaturation 
• better mechanical stability, preservation of enzymatic 
activity, longer half-life time 
• better operational stability 
• none (soluble enzyme)[18-25] 
• calcium alginate[103] 
• chitosan [104] 
Carriers for delivery 
of drugs and bioactive 
compounds 
• enhanced drug potency with a sustained action 
• more mechanically stable, greater drug loading 
capacity, better biocompatibility 
• More suitable for replacement and immunoisolation 
• conventional dosage forms[52] 
• liposomes [48] 
• agarose and alginate [105] 
Smart materials • temperature-induced transition over broad and useful 
compositional and pH range 
• copolymers of polyethylene glycol and 
poly(methacrylic acid) [106] 
Extracorporeal toxin 
removal modalities 
• No plasma separation (applicability to whole blood) 
• Good biocompatibility 
• Time - efficient 
• Minimal possible risk of infection 
• dextran sulfate, agarose [75-77] 
Soft tissue fillers • good tolerability 
• little lymphocyte infiltration, no serious complications 
• nonabsorbable  
• longer lasting effect 
• low incidence of granuloma formation 
• reduced antigenic properties 
• easy-to-use and effective 
• silicones [107,108] 
• gelatin, collagen, autologous fat, acrylic gels 
[91] 
