Design Concept 
A. Working principle 
The deflection of PDMS membrane is relative to the deformation of PDMS chamber. Fig3 illustrate 
the deflection of the beam is used to calculate the spring constant of the membrane, and show the 
relationship between the stress and deflection .  
\  
Fig3. The delection of the beam 
The moment is given by  
The differential equation for the deflection of the beam 
 
 
 
For the maximum deflection of the bending beam we find the spring constant: 
 
 
Assuming a rectangular cross section, this simplifies to 
 
The relationship between the force and displacement is expressed as 
 
B. Simulation 
The best mechanism of the device is the Pro/Mechanica solfware which is applied to simulate the 
relationship between the force and displacement. Four kinds of pushing rings are designed for 
simulating each performance of displacement at the same force. The force of 14N is acting on the top 
of the pushing ring. The first design  is the ring which is smaller than the size of the PDMS chamber 
and the shape is cyinder as shown in Fig4(a). The second desgn is the ring which has a size equal to 
the PDMS chamber as shown in Fig4(b). The third design is the ring which has a size equal to s 
PDMS and the shape is a cone. The fourth design is shaped as an inverted cone as shown in Fig4(c). 
The biggest displacement is 4.05mm which is a smaller pushing ring and the shape is cylinder as 
shown in Fig4(d).  
1234 Materials Processing Technology
Result and disscusion 
For measuring the device, PDMS tank as pig’s skin is fabricated. The two different viscosity liquid 
has been use to test the performance. The viscosity of the red ink is 1.0mPa, and the viscosity of the 
pig’s blood is 1.58mPa[3]. The result of the red ink drawn is shown in Fig8, the volume of the drawn 
red ink is 0.2cc. The result of the pig’s blood is shown in Fig9, the volume of the drawn pig’s blood is 
0.1cc. The data shows the viscosity would effect the flow of the drawing liquid. 
    
(a)                                                           (b) 
Fig8. PDMS tank as pig’s skin(a)red ink (b)Result of the measurement is 0.2cc 
       
(a)                                                          (b) 
Fig9. PDMS tank as pig’s skin(a)pig’s blood (b)Result of the measurement is 0.1cc 
Conclusion 
The blood drawing device is proposed. It doesn’t need an external pump to draw blood. The process 
of fabrication is easy and fast, and it could change the different gauge of  the needle which depends on 
what to do. The post blood treament would be integrated in the blood drawing device, such as a rapid 
detection chip, PCR chip, etc. It would let blood get rapid treatments, and it doesn’t have contact with 
the outside air pollution.  
Acknowledgements 
The  authors  gratefully  acknowledge  the  financial  support  provided  to  this  study  by  the  National  
Science  Council, Republic of China, under Grant No. NSC 99-2221-E-036-023. 
References 
[1] Kazuyoshi Tsuchiya,  Naoyuki Nakanishi, Yasutomo Uetsuji, and Eiji Nakamachi. Biomedical 
Microdevices 7:4, 347–353, 2005 
[2] Sommawan Khumpuang, Kazuya Fujioka and Susumu Sugiyama. Proceedings of the 2nd IEEE 
International Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular Systems. p847 – 850 
[3] U. Windberger *, A. Bartholovitsch, R. Plasenzotti, K. J. Korak and G. Heinze. Exp Physiol. 
2003 May;88(3):431-40. 
1236 Materials Processing Technology
會議之前 
7/28 號在台灣搭乘國泰航空抵達香港後旋即轉搭乘港龍航空至海南島三亞市，到
達時已經晚上八點了，在晚上時還看不出海南島有特別讓人想度假的感覺，只知
三亞市飯店很多，直到白天發現三亞市離海邊很近，可以看到整片大海。可是隨
即得知 7/29 晚間五點有颱風要在海南島登入，就發現海浪早已捲得老高。在 29
號晚上註冊後，隨即在飯店吃研討會在飯店舉辦的歡迎宴會，在宴會中發現不僅
是許多亞洲人面孔(中國、日本、韓國)，更發現許多來自美國或是加拿大，也有
來自印度的與會人士。 
 
與會過程 
參加先進工程材料國際研討會主因是因為在製作 PDMS 抽血機構時，總會想”是
否有其他材料可以替代 PDMS”，由於 PDMS 在製作生物晶片上早已被證實有良
好的生物特性，並且容易翻模帶來製作上的方便，於是就投稿至此研討會。在
7/30 號那天早上是研討會所邀請來的演講，分別是 Daolun Chen 來自加拿大
Ryerson University 主講內容為 Friction stir welding of lightweight alloys，探討在
焊接合金時所產生的摩擦力，Yinghua Liang 來自河北聯合大學主講防火泡棉的
檢測，其中原本有七位受邀來演講，可惜受到颱風影響，所以有些無法與會，在
聊解下才知主辦單位為河北聯合大學、內蒙古工業大學、韓國海洋大學與香港工
業技術研究中心，所以才會有許多亞洲人與會。在聽完 keynote speakers 講完後，
下午就去聽其他與會人士報告，其中有一篇題目是 Research on Mechanical 
Properties and Residual Stress of HVOF Sprayed Nanostructured WC-17Co Coatings，
        
建議 
    在本次會議後，讓我知道在有許多國外人士所參與的研討會，可以提升台
灣人的國際觀，在看到來伊朗籍的與會人士在 keynote speakers 報告完後，都積
極的發問，可見得在問問題方面是較亞洲學生略勝一籌，問問題所代表的意思不
僅是參與的態度，更是表現在”說”的方面，台灣學生往往有問題但在英文方面對
自己沒信心，所以總是自己想答案，可以在台上報告的人代表他懂得這方面知識
較多解釋給發問者聽，也可以讓發問者更快得到自己問題的解答，所以在”說”
這部份，這是台灣學生較缺少的一塊。在本次報告中得到其他與會人士對自己的
研究有其他看法，如抽血的方式、材料的選擇等等…，雖然在機械領域他們較為
生疏，但在看他們求知與討論的態度，不僅增進自己的眼界，也了解其他國家研
究人員對學術上的態度。 
四、 攜回資料名稱與內容 
大會議程 pdf 檔、論文集 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 整合式血液抽取及析離晶片設計與製作
計畫主持人: 簡昭珩
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-036-023- 學門領域: 生醫技術及自動化
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
