 1
 
電腦輔助色彩味覺與嗅覺意象之調和配色研究（II） 
Computer-Aided Color-Combination Design on the Images of  
Taste and Olfaction with Color Harmony (II) 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 97-2221-E-327-040 
執 行 期 限：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 09 月 30 日 
主 持 人：蔡宏政   國立高雄第一科技大學 工業設計研究所 
協同研究人員：洪嘉永 
計畫參與人員：洪祺程、吳思錡 
 
中文摘要 
今日電腦的軟硬體技術已臻成熟發展，運用電腦輔助色彩設計與模擬，已經成為色彩
設計的主流模式。而色刺激所產生的共感覺，長久以來即受到許多色彩設計研究學者的重
視，而味覺與嗅覺在色彩所衍生出的共感覺中具有較高的一致性與商業實用性。 
本研究針對色彩與味覺、嗅覺意象之關係，輔以色彩調和之考量，進行「電腦輔助色
彩味覺與嗅覺意象之調和配色研究」，以建立單色色彩與與配色組合對味覺、嗅覺之量化
關係及雙向之意象評價。而且運用模糊理論與遺傳基因演算法建構色彩與意象關係的演算
機制。最後，利用一個案實例之色彩設計，以驗證此方法之有效性。 
關鍵詞：色彩、共感覺、味覺、嗅覺、最佳化 
 
Abstract 
Nowadays, the hardware and software of computers has reached mature development. 
Computer-aided color simulation has become the dominant method for color design and the 
parameterized color systems are adopted for color presentation. Many color design researchers 
keep their attentions on the synesthesia induced by color stimuli. The senses of taste and olfaction 
in synesthesia are of better consensus and practical utility. 
This research aims at the color design about chromaesthesia of taste and olfaction with 
color-harmony consideration. The quantitative relationship, image evaluation and the 
color-searching interface between single colors/color combinations and the images of taste and 
olfaction are established. Fuzzy set theory and genetic algorithms (GA) are used to construct their 
relationships and operation algorithms. Finally, the color design for this project is created in a 
case study to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. 
Keywords: Color, Synesthesia, Taste, Olfaction, Optimization 
 
1. Introduction 
Most CAD product development systems only addressed the physical aspects of product 
evaluation models are built, it could be adopted as the fitness function when searching for an 
optimal color design to meet a required image target using a genetic algorithm. The basic concept 
of the color search mechanism is illustrated in Fig. 1. This mechanism is proposed in the current 
study begins with a randomly generated color-parameter sets, each of which is regarded as a 
chromosome and represents a color combination candidate. Through Table 1 and equation (1), the 
ideal color combinations are calculated. 
  
 
 
Fig. 1 Basic concepts of automated image prediction and color search mechanism 
 
Table 1  Unknown color's upper and lower boundaries 
51)-51-(- uuu
GB
up B ,G ,RC  
51)-51-(- uuu
RB
up B ,G ,RC  
)51-51-(-G uuu
R
up B ,G ,RC  
Upper Boundary of the second 
step 
51)-(- uuu
B
up B ,G ,RC  
 3
 5
0.8/0.7, and the corresponding weights of 0.6/0.4. The number of iterated generations is set to 
1000. The RGB parameters for the three best-fitted colors are generated: Color A (253,153,102), 
Color B (143,1,204) and Color C (233,6,32), and the overall fitness of the evolution-terminated 
generation is 0.77. 
 
 
4. Conclusion 
Most products comprise several groups of components, each with different colors, and hence 
it is not easy to use the results of single color experiments to predict their overall image 
evaluation. In this research, the algorithms, constructed in quantitative measures of the fuzzy 
system model, help to establish the relationship between multi-colored figures and their 
taste/olfaction images. Specifically, for systems with incomplete information or which contain 
variables with uncertain relations, the fuzzy forecasting model can be used to predict the grade of 
relation from known data. The customized color design system in this study provides a designer 
with a valuable indication of the image tendencies of his/her design. The designer can also 
establish an ideal color scheme for a given set of taste/olfaction image demands. 
 
5. Reference 
[1]  G. C. Van Dijk Casper: New insights in computer-aided conceptual design, Design Studies, 
16(1), (1995), p.62-80. 
[2]  L.A. Zadeh: Information and Control Vol. 8 (1965), p. 338. 
[3]  R.E. Bellman and L.A. Zadeh: Management Science Vol. 17 (1970), p. 141. 
[4]  Goldberg DE. Genetic algorithms in searching, optimization and machine learning. 
Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley, 1989. 
[5]  H.C. Tsai, J-R Chou: Automatic design support and image evaluation of two-colored 
products using color association and color harmony scales and genetic algorithm, 
Computer-Aided Design, 39(9), (2007), p.818-828. 
 
6. 成果自評 
(1) 本研究完成電腦色彩味覺與嗅覺之色彩計畫，不僅可正向評價多色產品之味、嗅覺意
象，亦可逆向搜尋符合目標意象之最佳化色彩組配，研究成果符合原第二年計畫之預
期。 
(2) 本研究方法具色彩配色需求之味、嗅覺相關商品可適用之。 
(3) 本年度研究成果擬於色彩與設計運算相關之國際研討會發表。亦擬投稿至設計相關之
SCI/EI 期刊。 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-327-040 
計畫名稱 電腦輔助色彩味覺與嗅覺意象之調和配色研究（II） 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
蔡宏政 
國立高雄第一科技大學 工業設計研究所 助理教授 
會議時間地點 2008 年 08 月 09 日 – 14 日 / 中國，北京 
會議名稱 
The 17th Triennial Congress of the International Ergonomics Association 
(IEA 2009) 
發表論文題目 Compatibility Studies between Classroom Lights and the Switch Interface 
 
一、參加會議經過 
8/08：莫拉克颱風來襲，高雄小港機場關閉，原預定飛往澳門班機取消。 
8/09：啟程前往澳門，因無機位前往北京，在澳門留宿一天。 
8/10：抵達北京。至大會舉辦地點（九華山莊）辦理註冊，參加 13:30 Session / Cognitive 
Engineering，並發表研究論文。 
8/11：出席 Keynote Session 與 Product Design Session。 
8/12：擔任 Session Chair (Product Design)。晚上同全體與會人員一同餐敘，並與相關發
表成員交換心得。 
8/13-14：出席 Affective Design and Displays Session 與 Keynote Session。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次會議為三年一度的第十七屆國際人因工程學術研討會，計有來自世界各國的
數百餘篇論文參與發表。本人在此次研討會中擔任 Product Design Session 之會議主
席，會中與來自香港、馬來西亞、日本、新加坡、丹麥與美國的研究學者交換各方面
的意見與經驗，不只個人收穫頗豐，亦不失為一次成功的國際交流。 
此次，亦有兩名本校工業設計研究所的研究生隨同參與此次的國際學術盛會，亦
輪流在會中以英文發表研究成果，相信對其國際視野與自信心的開拓啟發，應具有相
當正面的意義。 
 
三、建議 
香港的各主要大學皆以全英文的方式上課，與國際接軌相當的成功，而且其學者的
外文表達與溝通能力，明顯優於台灣學者。 
最近 5 年來，本人每年均至國外參與知名的國際研討會，深覺台灣參與國際學術活
動的數量正逐漸減少中。究其原因，個人認為主要為經費補助不足，造成出國交流之意
願不高。反觀鄰國日本、韓國、香港、新加坡、中國等，幾近全額補助學者與研究生參
與。其次，許多台灣的學者或學生因為英文程度不足，怯於國際交流，亦是因素之一。
因此，政府機構（國科會等）與學校應多鼓勵研究人才走向國際，並給予足額的經費補
