 2
2. 相關文獻 
在計算機圖學的眾多研究中，3D網格簡化(3D mesh simplification)、3D點集
合簡化(3D point clouds simplification)以及 3D表面重建(3D surface reconstruction)
三個主題與我們的研究關係匪淺，接著將針對這三個主題進行介紹。 
 
3D網格簡化 
網格簡化是針對已經具有三角網格的 3D模型進行處理。[20]使用了具有空間
切割概念的點叢集法(Vertex clustering)，針對原始模型的限界立方體(Bounding 
box)進行均勻細切後，藉由合併每個小立方體內的取樣點來達到簡化的效果。但
此方法容易在模型拓樸結構上出現錯誤，進而影響簡化後模型的品質。 
[9] [7]則是分別透過不斷移除模型頂點的點移除法(Vertex decimation)與邊線
的邊收縮法(Edge contraction)來簡化原始模型的網格結構，但兩者皆受限於
Manifold的三角網格模型上才可執行。[12]則進一步以簡化三角片的概念的三角
片收縮法(Triangle contraction)，重複的將一片三角片收縮為一個頂點，使其相鄰
的三角片退化為邊來達到簡化的功效。但隨著三角片數量的減少，將因誤差的累
積產生出品質粗糙的精簡 3D模型。 
[8]提出了重複的將點對合併成一個新點的點對收縮法 (Vertex-pair 
contraction)，此方法利用二次誤差矩陣(Quadric error metrics)計算點對合併後產生
的誤差，並選擇合併最小誤差的點對來得到簡化的效果。我們在[16]更進一步加
入扭率(Torsion)的考量，藉此改良了[8]在模型特徵保留上的缺失。 
 
3D點集合簡化 
點集合簡化的目的亦在減少原始模型的高幾何資料量，但因省去了網格簡化
中表面重建的前處理步驟，所以在整體計算成本的花費上將優於網格簡化演算
法。因此[19]提出直接將漸進式叢集法、階層式叢集法、反覆簡化法和粒子模擬
法這四種網格簡化演算法套用到點集合的簡化處理上，藉此獲得精簡後的點集
合。[18]則是結合最遠點取樣法和計算漸進式的 Geodesic voronoi diagram來進行
簡化，此方法能保證簡化後點集合的密度，並可產生具有均勻分布或是特徵趨向
的點集合分佈效果。 
我們在[17]中提出了一個透過分析點集合共平面性，並搭配八元樹(Octree)空
間切割法的點集合簡化演算法。此方法除了可以成功萃取出特徵區域外，並能依
照物體外形的變化動態調整點集合分佈密度，藉此產生具有特徵取向的簡化效
果。 
 
3D表面重建 
受到 3D虛擬物體在各種領域上的需求， 3D表面重建演算法一直備受重視。
最讓人所熟知的表面重建演算法是由 Hoppe [13][14]所提出的，此方法主要先利
用距離每個取樣點最近的 k個相鄰點估測其切平面(Tangent plane)，再以最近取
 4
3. 使用共平面特性切割八元樹進行階層式的點集合簡化 
在此點集合簡化演算法中，我們使用共平面分析作為分割模型取樣點的依
據，並使用八元樹結構來記錄取樣點分割的過程，藉此產生階層式的取樣點簡化
結果。 
演算法的執行流程包含下列幾個步驟： 
1. 採用八元樹資料結構對所有取樣點作空間切割並判斷是否符合共平面
標準； 
2. 選取每個符合標準的空間之代表點； 
3. 選擇適當的代表點以保持特徵，並保證誤差值； 
4. 適度加入輔助點避免因簡化過多取樣點，造成表面重建時，代表點密度
過度不均，導致取樣不足的情形產生； 
5. 代表點集合重建後合併輔助點。 
以下各節將針對上述步驟進行詳細的介紹。 
 
3.1 共平面變數選取與空間切割 
切割的基本概念是將物體表面取樣所得的取樣點集合切割成數個局部的點
群，以期得到一個最佳幾何近似的物體表面，因此切割的準則的好壞便顯得格外
重要。 
為此我們使用共平面性分析作為切割的依據，在切割的方法是採用(圖一 a)
中容易管理且具有結構化的八元樹狀結構。分割演算法是把輸入的取樣點集合重
覆進行八元樹切割處理直至每個點群皆符合細切的共平面標準，符合標準的點群
因曲面變化程度不一，將產生大小不同的點群，如(圖一 b)所示。 
 
(a) (b) 
圖一 點集合空間分割圖 (a)八元樹狀結構 (b)取樣點集合分割結果 
 
在共平面分析上，我們採用[19]提出的特徵分析(Eigen-analysis)作為分割演算
法執行的終止條件。特徵分析首先計算點群的重心為 ci，並計算點群的協方差矩
陣(Covariance matrix)為 Ci，公式如(1)(2)(3)所示。其中 q為點群內的所有原始取
樣點，|Ni|為點群內的取樣點個數。由式(2)可知協方差矩陣 Ci為一個 3×3的對稱
 6
0
20000
40000
60000
80000
100000
120000
140000
160000
180000
0.001 0.002 0.005 0.01 0.02 0.05
門檻值
點
數
Bunny
Armadillo
Dragon
Budda
 
圖四 共平面變數f變化圖 
 
3.2 代表點選取 
依共平面變數f與八元樹對取樣點集合做分群的動作，並對每個點群選取代表
點，此代表點將代表整個點群的局部表面特徵。首先，若以點群的重心點c做為
代表點，除了此點可能不是原始取樣點之外，也可能最後會累積龐大誤差值，並
造成表面重建時凸出或凹入的不預期三角片產生，如(圖五 a)所示。因此，最佳
的解決方法，應是使用MLS將重心點c投影回原物體表面以滿足最小誤差值，如
(圖五 b)所示。但如此將導致產生不屬於原始取樣點集合的新點且恐造成計算成
本的增加。於是我們採用取最接近點群重心點c的原始取樣點作為代表點，如(圖
五 c)所示。採用此方式理由不僅是減少MLS的投影計算，並且由於最後保留為
原始取樣點，將可以有效降低誤差值的產生。 
   
(a) (b) (c) 
圖五 點群取代表點示意圖 (a)取點群重心c為代表點 (b)將c利用MLS投影回原
始表面，且產生新點c’ (c)選取距離重心c最接近的點p為代表點 
 
3.3 加入輔助點來避免取樣不足 
由於直接對取樣點集合做空間切割可能導致平坦區域與相鄰的特徵區域有明
 8
  
(a) (b) (c) 
圖七 解決取樣不足的示意圖 (a)由於取樣不足導致在重建模型頭部下方產生不
預期破洞 (b)避免取樣不足，將相鄰階層差異過大的點群繼續細切 (c)增加相鄰
點密度產生正確的重建 
 
3.4 合併輔助點 
透過分群結果選取出代表點集合，可能會讓簡化過後的模型有取樣不足的情
形，因此在取樣點分割時即使符合共平面變數也會繼續細切，直至兩相鄰點群之
間的階層差距在 n/2 層內(n 表示最深層數)，且代表點數約為取樣點數的
30%~50%以下，我們稱此模型為“Base model”。Base model會自動依模型各處特
徵呈現不同的代表點密度，且在不同密度界接處以漸近的方式調整密度，如此可
保證重建的正確性。經實驗證明，Base model的點數約為原始模型的 30%左右，
亦即重建 Base model的代價為重建原始模型的 30%左右。 
重建 Base model 後由先前所建立的階層式樹狀結構可以簡單、有效率的將
Base model回復到原本符合共平面限制的層級，如(圖八)所示，亦即合併某子樹
的兄弟節點到原本上一層的父節節點，也就是將加入的輔助點移除，如(圖九)所
示。經實驗證明使用共平面變數 f為 0.005可約得原始取樣點數 10%左右的點數，
稱此為 Reconstructed model。 
 10
4. 多解析層次結構模型的表面重建 
藉由空間切割的簡化演算法中，藉由簡化過程產生的階層結構可以讓模型外
觀產生多解析層次的顯像方式。 
在使用八元樹空間切割的過程中，每個簡化後的代表點可以代表每塊小區域
的曲面資訊，對每個代表點 p，先計算 p與其共邊的相鄰代表點之法向量誤差值
e，並加總為 p點之加總法向量誤差值 Qp，此誤差值可用來表現相鄰區域的共平
面程度。對任意具共邊之點對 p 與 q，計算其加總法向量誤差值之變異
Q*pq(Q*pq=Qp+Qq)，並作排序，以作為簡化的優先順序，並且獲得最佳的簡化誤
差值，如如(圖十)所示。此方法將依序減少點對直到符合使用者設定的點數為
止，被選取的點對將會合併並重新計算與更新其共平面變數值、代表點和誤差值
e的資訊。 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
圖十 估測相鄰點共平面值示意圖。(a)代表點 p 與相鄰代表點 q1~q6依據法向量
計算誤差值，而 p加總誤差值 Qp=epq1+epq2+epq3+epq4+epq5+epq6 (b)代表點 p與相
鄰點 q1計算誤差值 epq1 (c)對 p與具共邊的 q1~q6計算其加總法向量誤差值之變異
Q*pqi(i=1~6) (d)根據 Q*pqi作優先權排序 
p 
q1 
q2 
q3 q4 
q5 
q6 
q1 
e
p 
q1 
q2 
q3 q4 
q5 
q6 
Q*pq1 
Q*pq2
Q*pq3 Q*pq4 
Q*pq5 
Q*pq6 
優先權 
Q*pq1 
Q*pq4 
Q*pq6 
Q*pq5 
Q*pq2 
Q*pq3 
 12
 
圖十二 使用空間分割簡化法產生的多解析層次模型顯像，由遠至近模型點數分
別為5k，10k，20k，30k，40k，和50k 
 
 14
 
[13] Hoppe, H., DeRose, T., Duchamp, T., McDonald, J., and Stuetzle, W., “Surface 
reconstruction from unorganized points,” In Proceedings of ACM SIGGRAPH 92, 
1992, 71–78. 
 
[14] Hoppe H., Derose T., Duchamp T., McDonald J., and Stuetzle W., “Mesh 
Optimization”, In Proceedings of ACM Siggraph, 1993, pp. 21–26. 
 
[15] Jong, B. S., Chung, W. Y., Lee, P. F., and Tseng, J. L., “Efficient Surface 
Reconstruction Using Local Vertex Characteristics”, The 2005 International 
Conference on Imaging Science, Systems, and Technology : Computer Graphics, 
2005, 62–68. 
 
[16] Jong B. S., Tseng J. L., and Yang W. H., “An Efficient and Low-Error Mesh 
Simplification Method Based on Torsion Detection”, The Visual Computer, 
Vol.22, 2006, No.1, 56–67. 
 
[17] Jong, B. S., Lee, P. F., Tseng, J. L., and Yang, Y. C.”, Hierarchical Point 
Simplification Using Coplanar Criterion”, The IEEE Tencon 2006 Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, 2006. 
 
[18] Moenning C. and Dodgson N. A., “Intrinsic point cloud simplification”, In Proc. 
14th GrahiCon, Vol. 14, 2004. 
 
[19] Pauly, M., Gross, M., and Kobbelt, L. P., “Efficient Simplification of 
Point-Sampled Surfaces”, In Proc. 13th IEEE Visualization Conf., 2002, 
163–170. 
 
[20] Rossignac, J. and Borrel, P., “Multi- resolution 3D approximations for rendering 
complex scenes”, Modeling in Computer Graphics: Methods and Applications, 
1993, 455–465. 
 
[21] Tseng, J. L., “Surface Reconstruction and Simplification Based on Shape 
Geometric Properties”, doctoral dissertation published by Chung Yuan Christian 
Uni-versity, 2006. 
 
CGI 2008 Conference Proceedings 
Chien-Hsing Chiang · Wei-Cheng Lin · Pai-Feng Lee · Bin-Shyan Jong · Tsong-Wuu Lin 
Automatic Feature Preservation Remeshing 
 
 
Abstract In numerous computer graphics research 
projects, the input models have regular vertex sampling 
and triangle shape as expected. For this reason, the study 
of remeshing is popular in computer graphics. However, 
the shape features are usually broken after remeshing, and 
this significantly increases shape error. Therefore, how to 
optimize mesh regularity and preserve shape feature at the 
same time is an important issue of remeshing algorithm. 
This paper presents a two-stage algorithm to automatically 
solve this issue. First, a surface segmentation technique is 
applied to extract the global structure of input mesh. Then 
the equilateral triangle grid and local geometry 
modification method is used to optimize the mesh 
regularity. This study demonstrates that the proposed 
algorithm can automatically preserve shape feature under 
acceptable error measurement, and is suitable to mesh 
with specific topology. 
 
Keywords Remeshing · Surface segmentation · Shape 
feature 
 
C.-H. Chiang  
Department of Electronic Engineering, Chung Yuan 
Christian University, 22 Pu-Jen, Pu-chung Li, 
Chung-Li,Taiwan, R.O.C. 
hikki@cg.ice.cycu.edu.tw 
 
W.-C. Lin  
Department of Information and Computer Engineering, 
Chung Yuan Christian University, 22 Pu-Jen, Pu-chung Li, 
Chung-Li,Taiwan, R.O.C. 
xingye6604@cg.ice.cycu.edu.tw 
 
P.-F. Lee 
Department of Information Management, Hsing Wu 
College, No.101, Sec.1, Fenliao Rd., LinKou Township, 
Taipei City 244, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
093094@mail.hwc.edu.tw  
 
B.-S. Jong 
Department of Information and Computer Engineering, 
Chung Yuan Christian University, 22 Pu-Jen,Pu-chung 
Li,Chung-Li, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
bsjong@ice.cycu.edu.tw 
 
T.-W. Lin 
Department of Computer and Information Science, 
SooChow University, SCU CIS. No.56, Sec. 1, Gueiyang 
St., Jhongjheng District, Taipei City 100, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
ylw@mail.leader.edu.tw 
1 Introduction 
    In recent years, three-dimensional (3D) triangular 
mesh is extensively used in many fields, such as visual 
effects and medical surgery simulation. Generally, these 
models are created by modeling software or a 
laser-scanned together with surface reconstruction 
algorithms [13][9][10]. However, in order to correctly 
represent the detail of surface shape, the vertex sampling 
and triangle quality of the reconstructed model is 
non-uniform, eg. over/under-sampling or narrow triangle. 
Unfortunately, such irregular geometry and connectivity 
information will significantly decrease the efficiency of 
other applications of computer graphics, eg. mesh 
compression and rendering. 
    For the purpose of improving the regularity of 3D 
modeling, numerous remeshing techniques have been 
proposed [3]. For the mechanical model established by 
CAD software, the quality of vertex sampling and triangle 
shape is sacrificed in exchange for successfully keeping 
the shape feature of the model. This means that shape 
features such as sharp edges are a very important 
characteristic for mechanical models. Therefore, both 
mesh regularity and shape feature have to be considered at 
the same time while the remeshing algorithm is applied. In 
recent studies of remeshing, the shape feature preservation 
is seen as a preprocessing step of remeshing algorithm. 
However, the increase of computational cost will be a 
result of these extra processes. In addition, if a global 
relaxation scheme is selected to optimize the mesh 
regularity, the convergence time of the relaxation step 
would be greatly limited by the initial distribution of 
sample vertices, i.e. the processing time will be longer 
when the sampling quality is very poor. 
    Consequently, this paper proposes a two-stage 
remeshing algorithm. First, the input mesh is 
automatically divided into several flat surface regions 
through co-planarity analysis. For each region, this paper 
uses an equilateral triangle grid to resample, and then a 
local geometry modification technique is applied to 
enhance the mesh regularity between region boundaries. 
The purposed remeshing algorithm demonstrates that the 
shape feature of the original model is able to automatically 
preserve, the shape of the triangle after remeshing 
approximates to the equilateral triangle, and a satisfied 
error rate is achieved. 
 
2 Related Work 
Since each research project of computer graphics has 
its own application, various remeshing techniques have 
been proposed to solve different problems. The research 
that has minimal L2,1 error between to ti. Once all 
triangles of M are assigned to one of primitive planes of 
Pbase, the surface of M is divided into six surface regions 
and each region includes several non-connected surface 
patches (see Fig.2(b)); 
2. Regard every surface patch generated by stage 1 as 
independent surface region to produce initial surface 
segmentation (see Fig.2(c)); 
3. Finally, selecting the triangle with minimal error from 
each surface region to construct set of the first seed 
triangles. 
 
Using Pbase and L2,1 error metric, the purposed algorithm 
can globally extract surface regions with similar normal 
direction. In the local view, surface patches in the same 
region independently represent the local surface 
co-planarity of the input model. Therefore, regarding 
every surface patch as an independent surface region 
could fully demonstrate the structure and shape feature of 
the input model. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) (c) 
Fig.2 (a)result of surface segmentation generated by the 
user-defined first seed triangles (b)six surface regions 
generated by the purposed algorithm (c)initial surface 
segmentation generated by the purposed algorithm. 
 
4 Mesh Optimization 
Once the purposed algorithm obtains the desirable 
surface segmentation, the mesh optimization stage is 
applied to improve vertex sampling and triangle shape. 
Since the boundaries of surface patches represent feature 
lines of the input model in the purposed remeshing 
algorithm, the mesh optimization is applied to each patch 
independently to preserve the shape feature of the model. 
To reduce the computation complexity and sampling 
distortion caused by directly resampling in 3D space, the 
resampling step is worked in 2D space by first flattening 
the mesh surface. Contrary to Alliez et al. [2], which uses 
the Global Parameterization Method to flatten the whole 
model to a single patch, the purposed algorithm divides 
the surface of input model into several surface patches by 
the surface segmentation described above. Therefore, the 
flattening step can be easily achieved by flattening each 
surface patch independently through the Local 
Parameterization Method. This makes the computation 
complexity and shape distortion of surface 
parameterization substantially decrease. In numerous 
studies of surface parameterization [8], this paper uses the 
flattening scheme proposed by Lee et al. [17] to complete 
the flattening process. 
 
4.1 Resampling 
After flattening surface patches, this paper resamples 
the boundary and interior areas of the patch separately. 
    For patch boundary, this paper uses an edge-split 
scheme to improve the uniformity of vertex sampling. 
Given a threshold L, the edge-split scheme inserts a new 
point at the center line segment of the boundary where its 
length is longer than L. Once the lengths of all the line 
segments are shorter than L, the resampling of the patch 
boundary is completed. The threshold length L in all 
experiments is chosen to be average edge length of input 
model. The red points illustrated in the Fig.3(b) and (c) are 
new points inserted by the edge-split scheme.  
 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
Fig.3 The steps of resampling scheme (a) original surface 
patch (b) using equilateral triangle grid to resample, red 
points are inserted new points by edge-split scheme (c) 
result of vertex resampling, (d) retriangular mesh 
 
The work of resampling the interior area of the 
surface patch first removes all the original points in the 
interior of the patch, and places an equilateral triangle grid 
over the whole patch as illustrated in Fig.3(b). Then, 
leaving the intersection points of the equilateral triangle 
grid that is located within the patch, and these left points 
are new sample points (see Fig.3(c)). This easy resampling 
scheme is able to generate large amounts of 
uniform-distributed points and demonstrates that the 
triangles constructed by these points are equilateral. While 
the resampling processes on the boundary and interior 
areas of the patch are completed, this paper uses the 
Constraint Delaunay Triangulation (CDT) technique to 
construct the new triangular tessellation of the current 
surface patch (see Fig.3(d)). As illustrated in Fig.3(d) the 
equilateral triangle grid (blue triangles) is able to generate 
large regular triangles and substantially improves the mesh 
regularity. 
 
4.2 Boundary Triangle Relaxation 
Resampling by the equilateral triangle grid can 
generate large amounts of regular triangles within the 
surface patch. However, in order to preserve the outline of 
remeshing without any additional preprocess. With the 
contribution of the equilateral triangle grid resampling 
scheme, there are large amounts of regular triangles and 
vertices with valance 6 generated within each of the 
surface patches. Figure.5, Fig.7, and Table 1 show that the 
regularity of vertex sampling and triangle shape are 
significantly improved. 
 
Table 1 The statistics of experimental models 
Model Error (10-3) 
Regular 
Vertex 
(%) 
ALR AAR CPU Time 
Moai 0.689 70.926 1.46 1.232 3m15sec
Clean 0.983 71.091 1.464 1.236 29sec
Flower 0.956 73.235 1.404 1.204 14sec
Fandisk 0.086 87.661 1.269 1.148 1m16sec
Rocker-arm 0.805 75.698 1.193 1.193 31sec
Foot 0.486 82.58 1.29 1.14 1m39sec
Elk 1.180 70.562 1.52 1.256 11sec
Average 0.74 75.964 1.371 1.201 1m15sec
 
In order to estimate the regularity of triangle shapes, 
this paper also proposes two measurement schemes, 
Average Length Ratio (ALR) and Average Angle Ratio 
(AAR) that is computed as follows, where #t is the number 
of triangle: 
∑
=
=
t
i i
i
tedge
tedge
t
ALR
#
1 )(min_
)(max_
#
1
∑
=
=
t
i i
i
tangle
tangle
t
AAR
#
1 )(min_
)(max_
#
1  
The ALR and AAR are equal to 1 while the triangle is 
equilateral. Table 1 shows that most of the triangles on 
remeshing models are similar to the equilateral triangle. 
The error values in Table 1 are calculated by Metro 
Tool [4]. Since the surface segmentation scheme is able to 
successfully preserve the shape feature of the input model 
and the accuracy of computation of projected coordinates 
using the barycentric coordinate technique, the average 
error in this study experiment achieves 7.4×10-4. Table 1 
shows the detail error of each experimental model. 
    Since the purposed remeshing algorithm divides 
input mesh surface into several patches and resamples 
them respectively, the models with high genus can be 
remeshed without any additional processing that global 
parameterization schemes [2] need (see Fig.6(b) and 
Fig.7(c)). Hence, the computation complexity can be 
significantly reduced. 
 
7 Conclusion and Feature Works 
This paper proposed a robust and efficient two-stage 
remeshing algorithm. In the first stage, the surface 
segmentation as proposed in [5] is used to extract the 
shape features of the input model and a slightly 
modification of [5] helps to automatically determine the 
numbers of surface patches. Then, the equilateral triangle 
grid resampling scheme was used to generate large 
amounts of regular triangles and the local vertex 
relocation scheme were used to optimize the triangle 
shape near patch boundary. Finally, the barycentric 
coordinate technique was used to reconstruct the output 
3D model. This study also hopes to use an adaptive 
resampling method in the future to sample mesh surface 
by the curvature variation of the original model. 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig.6 The remeshing result of model (a)model with sharp feature (b)model with genus = 22 
 
Reference 
1. Alliez, P., Cohen-Steiner, D., Devillers, O., Lévy, B., 
Desbrun, M.: Anisotropic polygonal remeshing. ACM 
Transactions on Graphics 22(3):485–493 
(SIGGRAPH 03) (2003) 
2. Alliez, P., Verdière, É.C. de, Devillers, O., Isenburg, 
M.: Isotropic surface remeshing. In Proceedings of 
Shape Modeling International, Seoul, Korea, May 
2003, pp. 49–58 (2003) 
3. Alliez, P., Ucelli, G., Gotsman, C., Attene, M.: 
Recent advances in remeshing of surfaces. 
State-of-the-art report (2005) 
4. Cignoni, P., Rocchini, C., Scopigno, R.: Metro: 
measuring error on simplified surfaces. Computer 
Graphics Forum 17(2):167–174 (1998) 
5. Cohen-Steiner, D., Alliez, P., Desbrun, M.: 
Variational shape approximation. ACM Transactions 
on Graphics 23(3):905–914 (SIGGRAPH 04) (2004) 
6. Dong, S., Kircher, S., Garland, M.: Harmonic 
functions for quadrilateral remeshing of arbitrary 
manifolds. Computer Aided Geometry Design, 
