I. Introduction 
Personal Computers (PCs) [1] are one of the most important tools in the world.  The 
applications of PCs have been wildly used in many fields, such as, the business, 
industrial, agricultural, education, …, etc.  Since the computer technologies 
grown-up, PCs play an important role in the proceeding control of the automatic 
production system.  There are some interface input/output (I/O) facilities in PC, such 
as keyboard, mouse and monitor and these interface I/O facilities are the basic devices 
of PC, the users can use the keyboard to input the commands to PC, use the mouse to 
switch the operations mode of two opened window in PC and use the monitor to 
examine the simulation results of the program in PC.  In general, there is one set of 
interface facilities (keyboard, mouse and monitor) in one PC to process and examine 
the states of every step in one proceeding control, but if there are many proceeding 
control included in one pack job, therefore there are too many keyboards, mouse and 
monitors needed in the generation line.  For example, if there are four sub processing 
procedures included in an automatic generation system and every processing 
procedure should have one set of PC to handle the job, hence there should have Four 
sets of PCs needed to process the job.  Therefore, there will have four sets of 
interface facilities (keyboards、mouse and monitors) needed in the generation line  In 
the other worlds, there are Twelve interface facilities needed for the engineers to 
handle the job.  These interface facilities sometime occupy the room of the 
generation line.  One very interesting question strike to the author, can the numbers 
of these four sets of interface facilities (keyboards、mouse and monitors) be shorten? 
Or, is that possible for engineers to use only one set of the interface facilities 
(keyboard, mouse and monitor) to operate and control four sets of PCs?  Nowadays, 
the micro-chip technologies have become more mature, the distributed control is a 
trend in industrials.  The distributed processes and managements technology are 
already been used for the Large scale Computer.  However, PCs are still of the type 
with the single processor and one set of interface facilities (keyboard、mouse and 
monitor).  Several papers that are concerned with the Interface Layer in PC, such as, 
the multi-functions of the Monitors [2]-[9]; the performance of Processors in PC 
[10]-[18], and the corresponding Interface card used to upgrade the performances of 
PC [19]-[31].  However, there are few documents related to how to use the 
technology of micro-chip to design an electric switch controller which using one set 
of interface facilities (keyboard, mouse and monitor) to control many PCs (not only 
one PC, could be three or four).  The traditional Switchers [32] are of the type of 
mechanic, the component of the Switchers is mechanic material, there are three major 
defects in the Mechanic Switcher (i) Communication Error: the reason of the 
Communication Error is the mechanic material of the Mechanic Switcher cannot 
 12-2 
the Control Unit. 
 
2.2 The Control Unit 
 
There is one micro-chip Mc89C51 in the Control Unit.  The Control Unit of the 
EtKMMS handles the whole situations of the Switching mode; the input devices 
(keyboard and mouse) and the output device (monitor) are included in the Control 
Unit.  If the Control Unit receives the “Command” from the EtKMMS of which the 
switching operation mode to another PC, the Control Unit will send the “Switching 
Command” to the Micro-chip Processing Unit to execute the transferring operation; in 
the other words, the specified (selected by the users) PC will be operated (controlled) 
by the “Standard I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)”.  The hardware 
interface of the Control Unit of the EtKMMS is the “Image Switching Circuit” which 
is controlled by another Micro-chip Mc89C51. 
 
2.3 The Analog signals Multi-channel Switching circuit Unit 
 
The function of the Analog signals Multi-channel Switching circuit Unit [35] is stated 
in the following: After received the “Switching Command” from the Control Unit of 
the EtKMMS, the “Analog signals Multi-channel Switching circuit Unit” uses the PS2 
connecting Port to switch the “Commands” of the original PC operated by the 
“Standard I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)” at the present time into the 
specified (selected by the users) PC. 
 
2.4 The Image signals Switching circuit Unit 
 
The function of Image signals Switching circuit [36] is stated in the following: After 
received the “Switching Command” from the Control Unit of the EtKMMS, the 
“Image signals Switching circuit Unit” uses the PS2 connecting Port to transfer the 
image signals of the original PC operated by the “Standard I/O Device (keyboard, 
mouse and monitor)” at the present time into the specified (selected by the users) PC. 
 
 12-4 
 
Fig. 2 Hardware Circuit of the EtKMMS 
 
 
Fig. 3 Prototype of the EtKMMS 
 
 
III. EtKMMS Design Methodology 
In previous Section, we have described the system structure of the EtKMMS.  The 
Hardware Circuit of the EtKMMS is shown in Figure 2 and the Prototype of the 
EtKMMS is shown in Figure 3.  In Figure 3, we can see that the size of the proposed 
EtKMMS is quit small and the operation functions of the EtKMMS is easy, the users 
can just use the touching button to switch the control mode of the selected PC.  In 
this paper, the proposed EtKMMS has the function of using just only one set of 
“Standard I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)” to control Four PCs.  The 
connections between every PC and the EtKMMS are using Two PS/2 extension Lines 
(one is for the Keyboard and the other is for the Mouse) and One Monitor signal Line.  
Since the proposed EtKMMS has the function of using just only one set of “Standard 
I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)” to control Four PCs, therefore, there are 
Five micro-chips Mc89C51.  Four of these five chips are belong to the Micro-chip 
Processing Unit; every micro-chip Mc89C51 in the Micro-chip Processing Unit uses 
the PS/2 PORT to handle the “DATA” and “COMMAND” transmissions between the 
 12-6 
IV. EtKMMS Testing Methodology 
In previous Section, we have presented the System Structure and the Design 
methodology of the EtKMMS.  In this Section, we will describe the testing and 
operation methodologies of the EtKMMS.  The operation procedure of the proposed 
EtKMMS is stated in the following: 
 
Stage 0:  One set of “Standard I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)”, Four 
sets of PCs with the PS/2 PORT and every PC with Two PS/2 extension 
Lines (one is for the Keyboard and the other is for the Mouse), the 
proposed EtKMMS. 
 
Stage 1:  Making the necessary connections of the “Standard I/O Device (keyboard, 
mouse and monitor)”, Four sets of PCs and the proposed EtKMMS. 
 
Stage 2:  Power on the Four sets PCs and check every PC of the Four sets of PCs are 
on the normal situation (the PCs are on the WINDOWS 98, 2000 or XP 
Screen), the object of this Stage is to check whether the connection 
between the “Standard I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)”, Four 
sets of PCs and the proposed EtKMMS are NORMAL connection. 
 
Stage 3: Using the Keyboard of the Standard I/O Device to change the STATUS of the 
Four sets of PCs (such the PC1 is of the CAPS LOCK situation and the 
PC2 is of the NUM LOCK situation, PC3 is playing the video, and PC4 is 
of the GAME mode).  The object of this Stage is to check whether the 
“Standard I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)” can MEMORY the 
different “STATUS” of the different PCs. 
 
Stage 4: Plug out the connections between the “Standard I/O Device (keyboard, 
mouse and monitor)” and the proposed EtKMMS and Plug in again. The 
object of this Stage is to check whether the proposed EtKMMS with the 
function of the “HOT Plug in and out” of the proposed EtKMMS with the 
“Standard I/O Device (keyboard, mouse and monitor)” 
 
Stage 5: Plug out the connections between One Specified PC called PCd and use the 
EtKMMS to switch the operation mode to the PCd and check whether the 
PCd is ENABLE.  The object of this Stage is to check whether the 
proposed EtKMMS with the function of the detection between the 
EtKMMS and the PCs. 
 12-8 
enhancement”, IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, 2002.   
[4] Jianxin Tang, “Real-time DC motor control using the MATLAB interfaced TMS320C31 
digital signal processing starter kit (DSK)” , Proceedings of the IEEE 1999 International 
Conference on Power Electronics and Drive Systems, PEDS '99, 1999.  
[5] Suaste-Gomez E., Zuniga-Lopez A.,“The retinal luminance in truants caused by 
luminance and color of PC monitors,” Proceedings of the Second Joint, Engineering in 
Medicine and Biology, 24th Annual Conference and the Annual Fall Meeting of the 
Biomedical Engineering Society EMBS/BMES Conference, 2002.  
[6] Perez-Vega C., Zamanillo J.M., Ipina J.S.,“Assessment of ionizing radiation from PC 
monitors and TV receivers,” IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, 2000.  
[7] Dennis W., “Philips deal makes top pc monitor manufacturer,” IEE Review, 2005.  
[8] Zara J.M., Bobbio S.M., Goodwin-Johansson S., and Smith S.W., “Intracardiac ultrasound 
scanner using a micro machine (MEMS) actuator” , IEEE Transactions on Ultrasonics, 
Ferroelectrics and Frequency Control, July 2000.  
[9] Ooi T.H., Lau K.T., Lim C.M., Yeo K.S., Yip Y.E., Pok K.A., and Wong C.J., “A PC-based 
MPEG compressed data decoder,” IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, 1995. 
[10] Stamatakis A.P., Ludwig T., “Phylogenetic tree inference on PC architectures with 
AxML/PAxML” , Proceedings International Parallel and Distributed Processing 
Symposium, 2003.  
[11] Messer A., Bernadat P., Fu G.., Chen D., Dimitrijevic Z., Lie D., Mannaru D.D., Riska A., 
and Milojicic D., “Susceptibility of commodity systems and software to memory soft 
errors”, IEEE Transactions on Computers, Dec. 2004.  
[12] Fazeli M., Farivar R., Miremadi S.G.. “A software-based concurrent error detection 
technique for power PC processor-based embedded systems”, 20th IEEE International 
Symposium on Defect and Fault Tolerance in VLSI Systems, DFT 2005.  
[13] Lee F.C., Xunwei Zhou, “Power management issues for future generation 
microprocessors,” The 11th International Symposium on Power Semiconductor Devices 
and ICs, ISPSD, 1999. 
[14] Fontaine R., Tetrault M.-A., etal, “Real time digital signal processing implementation for 
an APD-based PET scanner with phoswich detectors,” IEEE Transactions on Nuclear 
Science, June 2006.  
[15] Schroeder D., “Three-dimensional nonequilibrium interface conditions for electron 
transport at band edge discontinuities,” IEEE Transactions on Computer-Aided Design of 
Integrated Circuits and Systems, 1990.  
[16] Lohan F., Defee I., Hakulinen H., “Networked multimedia system based on open 
architecture,” ICCE International Conference on Consumer Electronics, 2001. 
[17] Tae Rim Park, Jae Hyun Park, and Wook Hyun Kwon, “Reducing OS overhead for 
real-time industrial controllers with adjustable timer resolution,” Proceedings IEEE 
 12-10 
