 2
Oh, Pedrycz and Park [14, 15] introduced the use of GAs and 
C-Means clustering to optimize the model with respect to its 
structure and parameters. They developed a comprehensive 
identification framework for fuzzy models based on 
information granules, and they used a genetic approach to the 
construction of the model by combining the successive tuning 
method with a generation-based evolution [15]. The underlying 
principles in their work refer to information granules forming 
the basis of the fuzzy model and to its structural and parametric 
optimization. The present study uses the PSO-EP algorithm, an 
Evolutionary Programming (EP) algorithm that differs from the 
GA algorithm in that it adopts a crossover operator, which is a 
mutation operator, and an individual selection strategy. All of 
the techniques mentioned above can increase the speed of 
evolution. We use the value of the fuzzy universe of discourse 
of EP-based fuzzy to help us adjust the parameters of the PSO, 
and then make it to regional optimal solution. 
It is well known that to control linear processes, conventional 
Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) controllers are the most 
widely used in industry due to their simple control structure, 
ease of design, and low cost [12, 17, 22]. However, there has 
recently emerged a new hybrid intelligence approach which 
combines fuzzy, PID and regulation controls [23]. Fuzzy 
modeling and identification based on measured data are 
effective tools for the approximation of uncertain nonlinear 
systems. For instance, Wu, Zhu, Cao and Tu used the Fuzzy 
Clustering Means method to determine the nonlinear antecedent 
parameters, and the linear consequent parameters were 
identified by means of the Recursive Least Squares algorithm 
[21]. Fuzzy logic controllers provide a more feasible control of 
nonlinear, time-varying and dynamic processes, marginally 
stable processes, and long-delayed processes, since they can 
easily incorporate the approximate, qualitative aspect of human 
knowledge and reasoning into the structure of the controller [2, 
5, 16]. Furthermore, Ho, Wong and Rad proposed a method 
which combines the fuzzy approach with the Integral Sliding 
Mode control method and the technique of robust control to 
guarantee a robust tracking performance for robotic systems 
suffering from uncertainty [6]. Thus, the adaptive fuzzy 
systems are used to cancel nonlinear robot dynamics, which do 
not need to have a linear parameterized structure as is assumed 
in the case of conventional adaptive control schemes.  
Finally, the question of which method to use to determine the 
parameters of the PID controllers that satisfy performance 
requirements has been addressed in many studies [19, 23]. The 
well-known Ziegler–Nichols method [10] allows the systematic 
tuning of the PID parameters. This method has good load 
disturbance attenuation capabilities but performs 
unsatisfactorily, with a large overshoot and long settling time. 
To improve such a system’s performance in terms of the rise 
time, the overshoot, and the integral of the absolute error, many 
studies attempt to incorporate features based on the experiences 
of experts with regard to PID gain scheduling. To this end, the 
use of fuzzy logic seems to be particularly appropriate [8]. 
In the current study, the weight parameter of the PSO-EP 
evolutionary Fuzzy-PID controller is utilized instead of 
self-evolving fuzzy membership types, shapes, and rules. The 
purpose of this is to reduce the required adjustment of the 
particle parameters and shorten the calculation time during the 
evolution period. The parameters of the controllers are then 
evaluated on the basis of the PSO-EP by using fitness functions 
associated with the system’s performance indices – the rise time, 
the overshoot, and the integral of absolute error. 
 
I. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION AND PROBLEM STATEMENT  
1. Particle Swarm Optimization  
In the basic PSO technique proposed by Kennedy and 
Eberhart, a great number of particles moves around in a 
multi-dimensional space, with each particle memorizing its 
position vector and velocity vector as well as the time at which 
it reached its highest level of fitness. The inspiration underlying 
the development of this algorithm was the social behavior of 
animals, such as the flocking of birds and the schooling of fish, 
and the swarm theory. The advantages of PSO are that it 
involves no evolution operators, such as crossover and mutation 
operators, and it does not require the adjustment of too many 
free parameters. PSO begins with a random population and 
searches for optima by continually updating this population. 
Moreover, each potential solution is assigned a randomized 
velocity. The potential solutions, called particles, are then 
“flown” through the problem space. Related particles can share 
data at the best-fitness time. The velocity of each particle is 
updated according to the best positions reached by all particles 
through iterations, and the best positions are determined by the 
related particles over the course of multiple generations. 
As they are flown through the searching space, particles are 
attracted towards the best solution found by a given particle’s 
neighbors and by the particle itself. Each particle has a position 
vector and a velocity vector. Suppose that the searching space is 
D -dimensional, and m  particles form the colony. The 
thi particle has a D -dimensional 
vector mitXi ,,2,1    )( K= . This means that the thi  
particle is located at )](,),(),([)( 21 txtxtxtX iDiii K= in the 
searching space. The position of each particle is a potential 
result. The thi  particle’s “flying” velocity is also a 
D -dimensional vector, represented by 
 4
where )(Ef  is the objective function, 
and popjeeeE popj ,,2,1  ],,,,[ 21 KK ==  is the vector of 
variables. It can be shown that the solutions of the primal 
problem are identical. The objective of the evolutionary PSO 
algorithm is to assist the fuzzy controller by clearly minimizing 
the value of )(Ef for the fitness function.  
In this paper, we use PSO to determine the global 
optimization solution of a fitness function. As a result, problem 
(6) is resolved as follows: 
Begin by randomly generating an initial population of 
pop individuals. Each individual is represented by a set of PID 
parameters ],,[ dip kkk . The fuzzy membership function is a 
function determined by means of 
],[: )()()()( tetetete kkU −→μ , ],[: )()()()( tetetete kkU &&&& −→μ . 
The optimization problem involves finding 
)(],,,,[ )()( Efkkkkk tetedip ∈&  so that the performance index 
of )(Ef (See Equation 11) for the system is minimized. After 
determining the parameters of )(Ef for all particles, each 
particle in PSO was said to represent a group of solutions to the 
problem presented in (6). 
The procedure can be detailed as follows: 
Step 1. Update the velocity strategy. Calculate the value of 
the fitness function for each individual in the 
population. Compare the value of the )(tX i  of 
every particle with the value resulting from its 
current evaluation. If the latter value is better, 
assign it to )(tXi , and give  )(tX i  the particle’s 
current location. Update the velocity of the particle 
using Equations (1) and (2). 
Step 2. Update the position strategy. Update the particle’s 
position according to Equation (7). Update 
)(),( tPtP gi  according to Equations (3) and (4). If 
the new position is outside the feasible space, set 
the position of the particle at the margin of the 
feasible space nearest the new position. 
 
 ]/)1([)()1(    
)]1,0(2/)1([)()1(   ,  
σ++=+
++=+<
tvtxtxelse
NtvtxtxmrrandIf
iDiDiD
iDiDiD (7) 
 
where )1,0(N is a standard Gaussian random 
variable. In R∈<≤ σσ   ,21 , the value of σ  
is the deceleration factor of the particle. The value 
of mr is the mutation rate. 
Step 3. EP mutation strategy. Mutate every )(tX i  and 
generate )](,),(),([)( 21 txtxtxtX jDjjj K=  in the 
following way: 
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛+=+
∑f
f
Ntxtx jjDjD β,0)()1(  (8) 
 
where jDx  represents the thj  individual error 
data; ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
∑f
f
N jβ,0  represents a Gaussian random 
variable with a mean of zero and a variance of 
∑f
f jβ ; ∑f is the sum of all fitness scores; and β  
is a parameter to scale
∑f
f j . 
Step 4. EP reproduction. For every particle j , apply the 
roulette wheel selection technique mentioned above 
by selecting jDx  from the set of all jX , and then 
update iV  and iX  according to Equations (1) and 
(2). 
Step 5. Repeat Step 1 until the )(Ef  is obtained, and then 
we evaluate it to see if )(Ef  no longer evaluation 
or not. The result is shown in Figure 1. 
 
The flow chart of the PSO-EP algorithm is presented on the 
left hand side of Figure 1. 
 
3. System Description and Problem Formulation 
PID controllers are extensively being used in industry today 
owing to their simplicity. Their main functions are the reduction 
or elimination of steady state error and the improvement of 
dynamic response. In this section we propose an improvement 
to such widely used fuzzy-PID controllers by incorporating a 
fast learning PID controller with parameters yielding a 
high-quality solution.  
In the fuzzy PID-controlled system shown on the right hand 
side of Figure 1 [See reference 8], the tracking error )(te  and 
the differential tracking error )(te&  are the inputs of the fuzzy 
inference system. The membership functions for )(te  and 
 6
systems that are encountered in continuous optimization 
problems. In this study, the weight was divided into IAE 
],,[ 765 ααα during three periods of time (the rise time, settling 
time, and peak time), in order to strengthen the evolution of the 
performance. Therefore, the weight gives a proper value 
according to the system or the expertise involved. We suggest 
that PSO-EP algorithms can automatically generate the system 
that is necessary to suit the weight in the process of performing 
a task. According to the results of the experiments, the method 
we have proposed performed better than the PID controller [10, 
19]. The combination PSO-EP-Fuzzy-PID controller was also 
proven to strengthen the system. Moreover, we simulated the 
performance of a PSO-EP PID controller and found that a single 
PID controller can perform well or even better by incorporating 
a PSO-EP algorithm. However, its performance may be 
worsened depending on differences in the plant, as shown in 
Figure 3 and Table 2. The parameters used in the proposed 
controllers were evaluated by using a PSO-EP with a clearly 
defined fitness function that is associated with the performance 
indices (the rise time, settling time, peak time, maximum 
overshoot, and IAE). Illustrative examples were presented to 
demonstrate that the proposed controller performs well with 
regard to these indices. 
 
. 
研究成果 
 
1. Juing-Shian Chiou and Ming-Tang Liu, 2009, 
“Numerical Simulation for Fuzzy-PID Controllers and 
Helping EP Reproduction with PSO Hybrid Algorithm,” 
Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory. Vol. 17, pp. 
1555-1565 (SCI). 
2. Juing-Shian Chiou and Kuo-Yang Wang, 2009, 
“ACA-based Fuzzy Controller Design for Robot Soccer,” 
International Journal of Fuzzy Systems, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 
164-173. (SCI) 
3. Juing-Shian Chiou and Ming-Tang Liu, 2009, “Using 
Fuzzy Logic Controller and Evolutionary Genetic 
Alogorithm for automative Active Suspension System,” 
International Journal of Automotive Technology. 
Accepted. 
4. Juing-Shian Chiou and Kuo-Yang Wang, 2009, “The 
optimization of the application of fuzzy ant colony 
algorithm in soccer robot,” The 2009 IEEE International 
Conference on Information and Automation, Zhuhai, 
China, pp. 681-686, 2009.  
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1]  A. Chaibakhsh, A. Ghaffari, S. Ali A. Moosavian, A 
simulated model for a once-through boiler by parameter 
adjustment based on genetic algorithms, Simulation Modelling 
Practice and Theory 15 (2007) 1029–1051. 
[2] J.-S. Chiou, K.-Y. Wang, Application of a hybrid controller to 
a mobile robot, Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory, 16 
(2008) 783-795. 
[3] M. Clerc, The swarm and the queen: Towards a deterministic 
and adaptive particle swarm optimization. In: Proceedings of 
the ICEC 1999, Washington, DC; 1999. 1951–7. 
[4] X. Guo, Y. Zhou, Dunwei Gong, Optimization of fuzzy sets of 
fuzzy control system based on hierarchical genetic algorithms,  
Proceedings of IEEE TENCON’02. 
[5] K. Hirota, Industrial Application of Fuzzy Technology. 
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1992. 
[6] H.F. Ho, Y.K. Wong, A.B. Rad, Robust fuzzy tracking control 
for robotic manipulators, Simulation Modelling Practice and 
Theory 15 (2007) 801–816. 
[7] W. Huang, D. Chen, An efficient heuristic algorithm for 
rectangle-packing problem, Simulation Modelling Practice 
and Theory 15 (2007) 1356–1365. 
[8] Y.-T. Juang, Y.-T. Chang and C.-P. Huang, Design of fuzzy 
PID controllers using modified triangular membership 
functions, Information Sciences 178 (2008) 1325–1333. 
[9] J. Kennedy, R.C. Eberhart, Particle swarm optimization, Proc. 
IEEE Int. Conf. Neural Networks IV (1995) 1942–1948. 
[10] B.C. Kuo, Automatic Control System. Prentice-Hall, New 
York, 1995. 
[11] Y.-P. Kuo, M.-T. Liu and J.-S. Chiou,  Design of an 
Evolutionary-Based Fuzzy System,  Asian Simulation 
Conference, 2006. 
[12] K. Ogata, Modern Control Engineering. 2nd ed. Prentice Hall 
of India, 1992. 
[13] S.-K. Oh, W. Pedrycz, Genetic optimization-driven multi-layer 
hybrid fuzzy neural networks, Simulation Modelling Practice 
and Theory 14 (2006) 597–613. 
[14] S.-K. Oh, W. Pedrycz, K.-J. Park, Structural developments of 
fuzzy systems with the aid of information granulation, 
Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory 15 (2007) 
1292–1309. 
[15] K.-J. Park, W. Pedrycz, S.-K. Oh, A genetic approach to 
modeling fuzzy systems based on information granulation and 
successive generation-based evolution method, Simulation 
Modelling Practice and Theory 15 (2007) 1128–1145. 
[16] K.M. Passino, S. Yurkovich, Fuzzy Control. Addison-Wesley, 
Reading, MA, 1998. 
[17] A. Pollard, Process Control. Heinemann Educational Books, 
London, 1971. 
[18] R-E. Precup, S. Preitl, PI-Fuzzy controllers for integral plants 
to ensure robust stability, Information Sciences 177 (2007) 
4410–4429. 
[19] D. Puangdownreong, T. Kulworawanichpong, S. Sujitjorn, 
Input weighting optimization for PID controllers based on the 
adaptive tabu search, 2004 IEEE Region 10 Conference D 
(2004) 451–454. 
[20] Raid Al-Aomar, Incorporating robustness into Genetic 
Algorithm search of stochastic simulation outputs, Simulation 
The 2009 IEEE International Conference on Information and Automation 
Zhuhai, China, 22-25 June 2009 
 
計畫編號：混合型進化式演算法之廣義預測控制研究 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-218-025 
報告類別：出席國際會議研究心得報告及發表論文 
會議名稱：The 2009 IEEE International Conference on Information and Automation 
會議時間：2009/6/22~2009/6/25 
會議地點：Zhuhai, China 
發表論文題目：The optimization of the application of fuzzy ant colony algorithm in soccer robot 
作者：邱俊賢、王國揚 
報告時間：2009/6/23     
報告心得： 
此論文為本計畫之部分成果，參與此項會議之成員，包括本計畫之主持人邱俊賢副教授以及主要研
究人員博士班研究生王國揚同學。經過約十分鐘之簡報及約十分鐘之問答，吾等獲得許多收穫並可
對此研究進行改進。其中，本人也榮邀擔任該Section的主持人。此外，由於王同學為第一次出國參
加國際會議，也因此次機會增加了不少歷練及經驗。  
The 2009 IEEE International Conference on Information and Automation 
Zhuhai, China, 22-25 June 2009 
 
The 2009 IEEE International Conference on Information and Automation 
Zhuhai, China, 22-25 June 2009 
 
