以協同動態知識實體論促進開放式創新及創業 
中文摘要 
開放式創新與創業精神是促進全球經濟成長的核心。技術創新與創業知識分散在
不同的時、地與人員上，且經由知識轉化機制結合與傳送。在技術與市場之多樣化及
全球化之趨勢下，開放式跨邊界作協同合作整合重組之技術創新與創業格外受到重
視。 
本研究之目的在檢視存在於跨國際邊界技術創業的動態過程中的組織知識網路能
促成技術系統演化及營運模式與組織體制創新之策略;建構協同整合之跨組織與地域
之動態知識實體(dynamic ontology)，藉以達到多元化創造價值的目的。創新與創業
可被視為是因應外在環境變化所進行之組織領域之擴充及知識實體轉化活動。過去對
於跨組織與國際邊界創業的相關研究，普遍著重於製造產業，對知識服務及跨產業間
之比較研究顯少著墨。因此，本研究從知識服務與數位內容創業的個案中，比較與探
討如何在技術與市場高度不確定性中，結合市場需求與技術系統多樣化及組織創新以
辨識市場機會，進而衍生出協同組織與營運模式創新，創造其高度多元價值。 
本研究對 IC 設計製造之知識服務與數位內容產業個案建構系統模式，得以呈現豐
富知識資產創造過程與洞察跨邊界實體經驗累積方式，亦可檢驗業界協同組織間呈現
多元之知識實體運作，以多樣化動態組合檢視需求鏈結束與聚合效應為其帶來截然不
同以往之機會辨識與價值創造。以實體論為基礎之研究模式顯示其動態建構及支援協
同創新與分散式學習之功能，研究藉由跨邊界之個案比較創新機會、創業體制與創新
組合的動態過程，提出企業以開放式跨組織邊界知識重組與機會辨識的主要機制。 
關鍵詞：國際創業、知識實體論、知識服務、協同創新與創業精神 
 3
 
INTRODUCTION 
This research is directed to examine the impacts of dispersed intellectual/social 
capital and organizational boundary spanning on entrepreneurial opportunity 
creation. We argue that value creation arises from the synthesis of entrepreneurial 
knowledge and actions on the opportunities afforded by the environmental changes.  
As there are limited local sources of advantages as lead markets (Beise, 2004) for 
diffusion of innovations, many local firms engage in cross-border activities early in 
their start-up phases and focus on how profitable opportunities are identified and 
exploited, as well as how environmental factors affecting the entrepreneurial actions 
leading to transformational value for their firms (Christensen, et al, 2005). The 
premise of the conceptual model of opportunity recognition in open innovation 
involves organization boundary spanning to integrate the dispersed intellectual 
capital. 
Opportunity Creation via Collaborative Innovation and Entrepreneurship  
The purpose of opportunity identification is to seek profitable opportunities that 
others have not identified or exploited (Ireland et al., 2001; Kodithuwakku and Rosa, 
2002). Stevenson et al. (1985) indicate that identifying and selecting the right 
opportunities is the most important capability of entrepreneurial firms. The capability 
of opportunity identification relies on prior knowledge in entrepreneurial firms (Yu, 
2001; Ardichvili et al., 2003.)  They argue that prior knowledge is available to 
trigger the discovery of a new opportunity, a new market, or a new solution to 
customer’s problems for entrepreneurial firms. As knowledge increases, 
entrepreneurial opportunity also increases (Kirzner, 1984; Kodithuwakku and Rosa, 
2002). Given the distinctive prior knowledge of entrepreneurial firms, they may 
identify several potential profitable opportunities that others have ignored (Noda and 
Collis, 2001; Shane, 2000). 
Collaborative teams and entrepreneurial firms engage in opportunity exploitation 
(Shane and Venkataraman, 2000). Within the strategies of opportunity exploitation, 
innovation could be considered an important practice of value creation 
(Chakravarthy, 1997; Drucker, 1985; Hitt and Ireland, 2000; Lumpkin and Dess, 
1996) and broadly categorized as technical or administrative (Daft, 1978; 
Damanpour and Evan, 1984). Technical innovations are defined as “innovations that 
occur in the technical system of an organization and are directly related to the 
primary work activity of the organization” (Damanpour and Evan, 1984; Roberts, 
2000). For instance, innovative information technologies could provide possibilities 
to create value for customers (Ardichvili et al., 2003) and firms (Amit and Zott, 
 5
Sexenian and Li, 2003). An organization can understand how to exploit and develop 
its resources better than its competitors by having superior knowledge.  The 
complexity of the knowledge and the network context are found important for 
knowledge application and transfer through the codifiability and teachability, which 
affect the ability of the organization to innovate (Hansen, 1999; Zander and 
Kogut,1995.)  
The capability to combine different types of knowledge allows the firms to re-create 
knowledge and contribute to opportunity discovery (Spender, 1996). To further 
clarify the relationship, we have introduced the use of organizational ontology in the 
process. It was observed in network-based research in entrepreneurship that dense 
networks can reinforce trust building, strong ties are predictive of early 
entrepreneurial activity and early linkages and legitimating activities affect 
persistence of entrepreneurial activity (Hoang and Antoncic, 2003; Sexenian and Li, 
2003;Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 2005). The boundary spanning role of the 
actors in the firms link and coordinate an organization with key elements in the 
external networking environment (Scott, 1995; Au and Fukuda, 2002; Daft, 2004.) 
Based on social capital and role theories, the diversity of social network and 
experience is conducive to the boundary spanning activities.  Au and Fukuda (2002) 
indicated that relationally diverse social networks increase the boundary spanning 
activities of expatriates of multinational corporations. 
Organization ontology is a formal explicit specification of the shared 
conceptualization or organization model (Neches, et al, 1991; Fox, et al, 1996; 
Gruninger and Lee, 2002; Corcho, et al 2003). An organizational ontology will need 
to model organizations as being made of networks of social actors, processes, and 
institutions. Indeed, from enterprise modeling views, organizational ontology is often 
considered to include a set of actors, institutions, activities, rules and procedures, 
The action perspective of the organizational ontology emphasizes the social 
activities by which the actors/agents generate the space of coordinated actions in 
which they work (Gruninger and Lee, 2002; Fernandez-Breis and Martinez-Bejar, 
2002.) This research adopts experimental concepts and approaches which have 
been explored for the collaborative integration of dynamic ontologies (Chu and 
Chien, 2005; Rezende, et al 2005; Aziz, et al 2005; Guarino and Welty, 2001.)    
Collective Governance of Dispersed Intellectual/Social Capital 
A key to collaboration in the open innovation environment is the collective 
governance of distributed innovation resources (Christensen, et al 2005; Miles, et al 
2005; Obrecht, 2004; Chesbrough, 2003). Intellectual capital has increasingly been 
considered a valuable intangible asset for start-up firms in opportunity creation, 
since it provides human intellect, structural routines and network of relationships 
 7
business policy and practices. Based on the premise of the organizational 
knowledge as socially embedded, this study hence explores how the 
entrepreneurial firms in the above sectors effectively capture the opportunity in the 
highly uncertain environment to create value. 
METHOD 
We choose two highly knowledge-intensive service sectors for case study to explore 
the relationship among cross-border organizational network, governance of 
intellectual capital, and collaborative innovation and entrepreneurial process and 
value creation. The data collection, data analysis, and conceptualization are 
conducted iteratively in the process of investigation.  We adopt the principle of 
iterative of Glaser and Strauss (1967) in the process of data collection. For data 
sources, we use multiple sources of evidence suggested by Yin (1994). First, we 
collect the secondary data through trade study reports, webs and current press 
information to preliminarily gather the historical events in the industry. Second, we 
use focused interviews (Merton et al., 1990) and other means of correspondence 
such as e-mails to fill the gaps of historical events in the selected knowledge service 
firms to collect the first set of data on the representative firms in the two knowledge 
service sectors – the IC and DC design and delivery services 
For data analysis, this research use the analytical techniques of chronology and 
cluster analysis (Yin, 1994). We allocate events in a chronology to highlight the 
causal relationship of events in a specific period in order to show the causal 
relationship among intellectual capital, organizational knowledge, and 
entrepreneurial opportunities (Chu and Hsu, 2006). This stage of research adopts 
qualitative research using grounded theory (Glaser and Strauss, 1967) to explore 
the influencing factors of opportunity recognition and exploitation. We draw on this 
method because studies through qualitative research can address many substantive 
issues and implications that cannot be discovered through quantitative approaches 
(Strauss and Corbin, 1998; Yin, 1994.) 
In the field of entrepreneurship, Gartner and Birley (2002) indicated that “many 
substantive issues in entrepreneurship are rarely addressed, and that many of the 
important questions in entrepreneurship can only be asked through qualitative 
methods and approaches”. In addition, Kodithuwakku and Rosa (2002) argued “the 
nature and impact of entrepreneurial process on economic and business success is 
difficult to assess as there are many intervening variables to consider”. Hence, in 
this study, we adopt the “appreciative theorizing” approach to discover the 
entrepreneurial ontology for successful opportunity recognition/exploitation in an 
iterative fashion. 
 9
opportunity and value creation, as depicted in Chu and Hsu (2006). Our view of 
opportunity creation is fundamentally rooted in the dynamics of intellectual/social 
capital creation process guided by an ontological engineering process. The ontology 
in the context of the IC and DC case studies refers to the relations, combinations, 
and exchanges of the elements pertaining to the entrepreneurial resources and 
mechanisms. Social contacts provide referrals to the people in the network who 
influence the opportunities to combine and exchange of the knowledge related to 
the initiative. The ontology directed to fostering the trust and identification factors in 
anticipating the value and motivating the action of an initiative would enhance the 
opportunities and value created. The knowledge for the levels of trust needed in the 
intention, capability, reliability, and openness in the other parties plays a key role in 
the new venture initiatives. This effect is particularly prominent among the emerging 
DC firms’ partner relationships in enacting open innovation and cross border 
entrepreneurial initiatives. 
Another finding related to the cross border entrepreneurial activities pertain to the 
combination of intangible assets for opportunity creation involves the provision of 
human intellect, structural routines, and network of relationships that can expedite 
opportunity recognition. Many of the mechanisms that advance the entrepreneurial 
process reside in the continuously evolving cycles of developing intellectual capital, 
organizational knowledge, and opportunities. Thus the institutional settings of the 
high-tech environment nurturing the industry are conducive to the building up of the 
social capital important to recognizing and exploiting the cross border opportunities. 
For example, in the dynamic market and technology environment the IC design 
industry facing, the types of human team, venture operation routines, and the 
network relationships would affect the creation of new opportunities.  
This research also examines the content, governance and structure of firms’ 
network relationship with regard to network-based view of venture and 
entrepreneurship. It confirms, as was observed in network-based research in 
entrepreneurship, that dense networks can reinforce trust building, strong ties are 
predictive of early entrepreneurial activity and early linkages and legitimating 
activities affect persistence of entrepreneurial activity (Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 
2005; Hoang and Antoncic, 2003). It appears that the diversity of social network and 
experience is conducive to the initiatives covering the boundary spanning activities. 
The boundary spanning role of the actors in the sample firms link and coordinate an 
organization with key elements in the external network (Scott, 1995; Au and Fukuda, 
2002; Daft, 2004.) Specifically, relationally diverse social networks increase the 
boundary spanning activities of expatriates of DC firms that converge on the local 
and cross-border DC delivery services. 
 11
Growth in the Managed and Entrepreneurial Economics, Industrial and 
Corporate Change, 10(1), pp.267-315 
Aziz, H. Gao, J., Maropoulos, P. and Cheung, W.M. 2005. Open Standard, Open 
Source and Peer-to-Peer Tools and Methods for Collaborative Product 
Development, Computers in Industry, 56 (2005), pp. 260-271.  
Beise, M. 2004. Lead Market: Country-Specific Drivers of the Global Diffusion of 
Innovations, Research Policy, 33(2004) pp. 997-1018. 
Bigoness, W. J. and Perreault, W. D. 1981. A conceptualization paradigm and 
approach for the study of innovators. Academy of Management Journal, 24: 
68-82. 
Bontis, N., Crossan, M., and Hulland, J. 2001. ‘Managing an organizational learning 
system by aligning stocks and flows,’ Journal of Management Studies.  
Boudreau, M.-C., Loch, K. D., Robey, D., and Staub, D. 1998. Going global: Using 
information technology to advance the competitiveness of the virtual transnational 
organization. Academy of Management Executive, 12(4): 120-128. 
Bruyat, C. and P.-A. Julien, 2000, ‘Defining the Field of Research in Entrepreneurship’, 
Journal of Business Venturing, Vol.16, pp.165-180. 
Capon, N., Farley, J. U., Lehmann, D. R., and Hulbert, J. M. 1992. Profiles of product 
innovators among large U.S. manufactures. Management Science, 38: 157-169.  
Carayannis, E.G. and von Zedtwitz, M, 2005. Architecting Global-Local Real-Virtual 
Incubator Networks as Catalysts and Accelerators of Entrepreneurship in 
Transitioning and Developing Economies, Technovation. 25(2005) pp. 95-110. 
Chakravarthy, B., 1997, ‘A New Strategy Framework for Coping with Turbulence’, 
Sloan Management Review, Winter, pp.69-82. 
Chang, P.-L. and Tsai, C.-T. 2002. Finding the Niche Position – Competition Strategy of 
Taiwan’s IC Design Industry, Technovation 22 (2002), pp.101-111. 
Chaston, I. and T. Mangles, 2001, ‘E-commerce and Small UK Accounting Firms: 
Influence of Marketing Style and Orientation’, Service Industries Journal, Oct, 
Vol.21, No.4, pp.83-99. 
Chen, S.-H. 2004. Taiwanese IT Firms’ Offshore R&D in China and the Connection 
with the Global Innovation Network, Research Policy, 33(2004) pp. 337-349. 
 13
Irwin, Inc. 
Cummings, T. G. and Suresh, S. 1977. Management of Work: A Socio-Technical 
Systems Approach. OH: Kent State University Press. 
Daft, R.L. 2004 Organization theory and Design, Mason, OH: South-Western. 
Daft, R.L., 1978, ‘A Dual Core Model of Organizational Innovation’, Academy of 
Management Journal, Vol.21, pp.193-210. 
Damanpour, F. and Evan, W. M. 1984. Organizational innovation and performance: 
The problem of organizational lag. Administrative Science Quarterly, 29: 
392-409. 
De Carolis, D.M. 2002. The role of social capital and organizational knowledge in 
enhancing entrepreneurial opportunities in high-technology environments, in 
Choo, C.W. and Bontis, N. The Strategic Management, Intellectual Capital 
and Organizational knowledge, Oxford. 
Deeter-Schmelz, D. R., Bizzari, A., Graham, R., and Howdyshell, C. 2001. Business 
-to-business online purchasing: Suppliers’ impact on buyers’ adoption and usage 
intent. Journal of Supply Chain Management, 37(1): 4-10. 
Dew, N. Velamuri, S.R. and Venkataraman, S. 2004. Dispersed Knowledge and an 
Entrepreneurial Theory of the Firm, Journal of Business Venturing, 19(2004) 
pp. 659-679. 
Drucker, P., 1985, Entrepreneurship and Innovation: Practice and Principles, New 
York: Harper Business. 
Edvinsson, L. and Sullivan, P. 1996. ‘Developing a model for managing intellectual 
capital,’ European Management Journal, 14(4). 
Fernandez-Breiz, J. T. and Martinez-Bejar, R. 2002 ‘A cooperative framework for 
integrating ontology.’ International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Vol. 56, 
pp. 665-720. 
Fox, M. S., Barbuceanu, M. and Gruninger, M. 1996. An organisation ontology for 
enterprise modeling: preliminary concepts for linking structure and behaviour, 
Computers in Industry, Vol. 29, pp.123-134. 
 15
(ed.), Strategic Entrepreneurship: Creating a New Mindset, Oxford, MA: 
Blackwell Publishers. 
Hoang, H. and Antoncic, B. 2003. Network-based Research in Entrepreneurship: A 
Critical Review, Journal of Business Venturing, 18(2003). Pp. 165-187. 
Houghton, J.W. , 2004. Digital Delivery of Business Services, OECD Working 
Paper on the Information Economy. 
Hung, S. and Chu, Y., (2005) Stimulating New Industries from Emerging Technologies: 
Challenges for the Public Sector, Technovation.                                          
Ireland, R.D., M.A., Hitt, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2001, ‘Integrating 
Entrepreneurship Actions and Strategic Management Actions to Create Firm 
Wealth’, Academy of Management Executive, Vol.15, No.1, pp.49-63. 
Kirzner,  I., 1997, ‘Entrepreneurial Discovery and the Competitive Market Process: An 
Austrian approach’, Journal of Economic Literature, Vol.35, pp.60-85. 
Kirzner,  I., 1984, ‘The Entrepreneurial Process’, in C.A. Kent (ed.), The Environment 
for Entrepreneurship, Lexington Books, New York, pp.41-58. 
Kleinschmidt, E. J. and Cooper, R. G. 1991. The impact of product innovativeness on 
performance. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 8: 240-251. 
Koberg, C. S. 1987. Resource scarcity, environmental uncertainty, and adaptive 
organizational behavior. Academy of Management Journal, 30(4): 798-807. 
Koberg, C. S., Uhlenbruck, N., and Sarason, Y. 1996. Facilitators of organizational 
innovation: The role of life-cycle stage. Journal of Business Venturing, 11: 
133-149. 
Kodithuwakku, S.S. and P. Rosa, 2002, ‘The Entrepreneurial Process and Economic 
Success in a Constrained Environment’, Journal of Business Venturing, Vol.17, 
pp.431-465. 
Liu, M.C. and Chen, S.H. 2003. International R&D Deployment and Locational 
Advantage: A Case Study of Taiwan, NBER Working Paper Series, 10169. 
Liu, T., Chu, Y., Hung, S. and Wu, S. 2005. Technology Entrepreneurial Styles: a 
Comparison of UMC and TSMC, International Journal of Technology 
Management, 29(1/2) pp. 92-115. 
Resource, Australia. 
Mowery, D. C. and Rosenberg, N. 1979. The influence of market demand upon 
innovation: A critical review of some recent empirical studies. Research Policy, 3: 
220-242. 
Nahapiet, J..E. 1996. Managing relationship with global clients: value creation through 
cross-border networks, 16th Annual Conference of the Strategic Management 
Society, Phoenix, AZ 
Nahapiet, J.E. and Ghoshal S. 2002. Social capital, intellectual capital, and the 
organizational advantage in Choo, C.W. and Bontis, N. The Strategic 
Management of Intellectual Capital and Organizational knowledge, Oxford. 
Neches, R., Fikes, R. E., Finin, T., Gruber, T. R., Senator, T. and W. R. Swartout, 1991. 
Enabling Technology for Knowledge Sharing, AI Magazine 12 (3) pp.36–56. 
Noda, T. and D.J., Collis, 2001, ‘The Evolution of Intra-industry Firm Heterogeneity: 
Insights From a Process Study’, Academy of Management Journal, Vol.44, No.4, 
pp.897-925. 
Obrecht, J. 2004. Entrepreneurial Capabilities: A Resource-based Sytemic Approach 
to International Entrepreneurship, in Data, L. (ed.) Handbook of Research on 
International Entrepreneurship, Edward Elgar: Cheltenham, Uk. 
O’Connor, G. C. and Veryzer, R. W. 2001. The nature of market visioning for 
technology-based radical innovation. Journal of Product Innovation 
Management, 18: 231-246. 
OECD. 2000. The Service Economy, OECD Report. 
OECD. 2004. Digital Broadband Content: Panel and Government Session, OECD 
Report. 
OECD. 2004. Digital Delivery of Business Services, OECD Report. 
OECD. 2005. Digital Broadband Content: Mobile Content – New Content for New 
Platforms, OECD Report. 
Park, S. H. and Luo, Y. 2001. Guanxi and organizational dynamics: Organizational 
networking in Chinese firms. Strategic Management Journal, May, 22(5): 
455-477. 
 17
 19
management. Strategic Management Journal, 18(7): 509-593. 
Tidd, Bessant, and Pavitt 1997. Managing innovation: Integrating technological 
and organizational change. New York: John Wiley & Sons. 
Tripsas, M. and Gavetti, G. 2000. Capabilities, cognition, and inertia: Evidence from 
digital imaging. Strategic Management Journal, 21: 1147-1161. 
Uschold, M., King, M., Moralee, S. and Zorgios, Y. 1997 The Enterprise Ontology, 
Artificial Intelligence Application Institute (AIAI), University of Edinburgh. 
Wise, R. and Morrison, D. 2000. Beyond the exchange: The future of B2B. Harvard 
Business Review, November-December: 86-96. 
Wolfl, A. Productivity Growth in Service Industries: An Assessment of Recent Patterns 
and the Role of Measurement, OECD report (STI Working Paper 2003/7) 
Yin, R. K. 1994. Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 2nd Ed. London, CA: 
Sage. 
Yu, T. F.-L., 2001, ‘Towards a Theory of the Entrepreneurial State’, International 
Journal of Social Economics, Vol.28, No.9, pp.752-765. 
Zander, U. and Kogut, B. 1995.  ‘Knowledge and the Speed of the Transfer and 
Imitation of Organizational Capabilities,’ Organization Science, 7(1) pp. 76-92, 
1995. 
Hung, S.F., Kao, H.P. and Chu, Y. (2008) An Empirical Study on Knowledge 
Integration, Technology Innovation and Experimental Practice, Expert Systems 
With Applications (accepted). 
Chu, Y and Ho, C. Collaborative Dynamic Ontology for Open Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship for Cross-border Knowledge Services in the Globalizing Digital 
Content Industries, Paper draft to be submitted to International Journal of 
Technology Management. 
 
 
 
 
 
 21
包含國際化之學術（Globalizing Academics）等。目前此一領域正結合主要兩方面的
研究動力：一方面由數位科技背景探討產業之知識工程發展及應用；另一方面是工
程知識網路結合全球化之新興研究動力。此一結合趨勢將能提升此學術領域對未來
的科技、產業及社會的進展上的貢獻及影響力。 
 
二、與會心得 
（一）知識論為基礎之開放創新管理議題之研究 
知識論為基礎之研究議題之探討著重於創新架構、策略、程序、與機制，數位
設計與學習等問題之解決，知識移轉與學習，技術發展之組織與管理成效，及國際
化與技術合作等議題。筆者參加之場次則分別探討新知識網路與國際化作為發掘過
程之管理、決策、移轉擴散機制與作法。與會學者對於發展體系之系統特徵及有效
的參與過程所提出的論點與實證研究結果作整體性之探討。筆者研究團隊提出以語
意網之動態開放式創新發展呈現於國際化學術知識體系之研究結果亦在會場獲得
進一步之討論與交流。會中除了北美與會者外，有歐洲及亞洲的學者表達有興趣探
索作進一步比較研究之可能性。 
 
（二）電腦系統、控制、資訊技術與工業工程新研究領域之發展 
本次會議顯示幾個以新興資訊科技於工業工程運用的議題受到熱烈的討論。
除了上述之知識創新領域外，包括：智慧型系統設計模擬及網路為基礎之模式與
模擬系統等。運用領域包含企業之電子化、技術創新等數十篇論文涵蓋各主題。
由此觀點來看這次大會主題的一再提到整個領域的跨資訊電腦技術與工程整
合的性質。再由這次與會論文安排的架構觀之，傳統上智慧型控制系統工程與電腦
資訊於工程知識創造與學習之應用之結合似已愈來愈成熟，或許將來可能演進為一
個整體的領域，得以結合學術資源與成果以發揮其影響力。 
 
三、建議 
在系統控制資訊工程之期刊與研討會中，關於我國在系統控制資訊技術電腦與
產業工程技術之創新應用方面研究發表仍可加強。由於我國之電腦與工業工程在產
業上的發展與應用在新興的經濟體中表現甚為耀眼，使得在這個領域中的論文受到
與會者之注意。建議我國應多鼓勵這個領域的相關學術研究及成果發表，鼓勵國際
性學術研討會在國內舉辦，國際水準論文期刊之設置與養成，跨領域間合作之研
Demand Chain Management Ontology for Innovation  
in Integrated Circuit Design and Manufacture Services 
Yee-Yeen Chu and Ya-Ping Cheng 
National Tsing-Hua University 
Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management Department 
101 Kuang-Fu Road, Section 2, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan 300 
886-3-574-2656 (O) 886-3-5742656 (F) 
yychu@ie.nthu.edu.tw
 
ABSTRACT 
Integrated circuit (IC) design and manufacturing has been 
the focus of innovation to support a rapidly expanding and 
globalizing network economy. With the general trends 
toward a great variety of technology and global market 
settings, the need for active research on the demand creation 
and management to facilitate collaborative innovation has 
gain substantial attention. 
  
This paper aims to develop the demand chain management 
ontology for identifying market demand drivers and 
mechanisms that impact the value creation process. Based 
on a series of case studies of the IC design and manufacture 
service industries, we explore the potential of the ontology 
in addressing the heterogeneity of the demand and problem 
solving mechanism of an ontology-based support system. 
Previous studies have largely been characterized as static, 
production sector-oriented and lacking service sector 
comparative research. As a result, the demand characteristics 
related to the collaborative innovation in the IC design and 
manufacture service sectors have largely been unexplored.  
Through a set of in-depth case studies of the inter-firm 
networks on the evolving technology and business platforms, 
this research aims to develop an ontology-based demand 
creation and management system to capture the multiple 
innovation opportunities. The emphasis of the studies is on 
exploring the ontology transformation dynamics and 
organization innovation to enable multiple streams of value 
creation in the design and manufacture service creation and 
delivery process.  
 
Keywords: Demand Chain Management, Organization 
Ontology, IC Design and Manufacture, Collaborative 
Innovation 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Based on an on-going case study of IC design industry in 
Taiwan, we argue that market opportunity creation arises 
from the synthesis of innovative actions and effects on 
environmental changes (Chu and Tsai, 2004). In other words, 
opportunity creation arises not only from the 
implementation of innovative entrepreneurial actions, but 
also from the build-up of the organization knowledge for 
recognition and exploitation of the opportunities, 
specifically, in terms of transformational growth in value. 
Indeed, we propose that the embedded organization 
knowledge provides the essence for the new ideas and aids 
in the recognition and exploitation of innovative demand 
creation opportunities (Coviello and Jones, 2004) and 
providing the catalyst for value creation (De Carolis, 2002.) 
 
This study is built on prior efforts in the computer-mediated 
metadata elements to facilitate a common method for 
identifying, searching, and retrieving planning and learning 
objects for the collaborative planning and learning (Chu and 
Chien, 2005). The study constructed a mechanism of 
distributed objects sharing based on the Semantic Web. The 
ontology construction mechanism focused on integrating 
domain knowledge as object ontology implemented on the 
semantic web. In addition, the communication and 
collaboration ontologies were constructed in the system to 
include the concepts for modeling the communication 
process such as opinion exchange, persuasion, compromise, 
and agreement, as well as the concepts for modeling the 
collaborative process such in the goal setting, partnership 
and community type, and learning scenario. The purpose 
was to use these ontologies to describe the planning and 
learning materials precisely and to disclose the relationships 
between distributed planning and learning materials. 
Furthermore this mechanism allows for relating to other 
potential applications and development in the field of 
learning, including instruction modeling, collaborative 
learning and knowledge management.  
 
2. BACKGROUND 
 
2.1 Organization Ontology 
This research adopts a knowledge-based view of firms, 
which focus on knowledge as its most strategically 
important resources (Grant, 1996). By having superior 
knowledge, an organization can understand how to exploit 
and develop its traditional resources better than its 
competitors. The ability to acquire, integrate, share, and 
apply it is the most important capability to build and sustain 
competitive advantages. Organization knowledge in a 
typical enterprise represents many types of knowledge, such 
as engineering, marketing, administrative, logistics, etc. The 
 history. 
 
The production of DCM planning objects that may be used 
or reused in the construction of the DCM module need to be 
annotated or "enriched" with the following metadata 
information: 
- what is the demand planning about (content annotation), 
- which context has the learning material (context 
annotation)  
- how is it connected to other planning materials (structure 
annotation) 
and  
- how the object connections evolve over time (dynamic 
characteristics.) 
 
DCM 
Platform 
Sponsor
Agent
Agent
Communication
Module
Demand
Network 
Repository
Matching
Rules
Repository
Knowledge
Structure
Repository
Learning Objects 
Composing
Module
UI
Module
Demand
History
Database
Demand Management Module
Demand
Tracing
FunctionDemand 
Chain
Partner
Demand 
Management 
Sequencing
Function
&
store
retrieve
Translation
dispatch
store
annotate
Demand
Evaluating
Function
refer to
AgentRules 
Provider
store
update
Semantic 
Web
retrieve
Scenario
Evaluating
Function
refer to
Figure 1. System architecture and scenario for an ontology-based demand chain management (DCM)  
 
 
 
Figure 2. Knowledge taxonomy used to build demand chain management ontology 
 
structure, such the physical ontology of DCM and the 
functional ontology of SKU/BOM, that having different 
semantic mappings between them. Since, the taxonomies are 
central taxonomies, which is often based on integrating 
objects from one taxonomy into the other.  The system is 
able to adopt a mapping function that enable different source 
of taxonomy adopt a mapping function that enable differing 
source of taxonomy (e.g., BOM) to be mapped and merged 
entirely into a master taxonomy (e.g., DCM) components of 
ontologies, ontology mapping necessarily involves finding 
the correspondences.
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
