適用於無線感測網路之超低功率射頻技術(I) 
計畫編號：95-2221-E-002-395 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：呂良鴻 副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫的研究主題為適用於無線感測網
路系統晶片之射頻電路技術，研發的項目包括
無線電源供應模組、射頻接收端及發射端積體
電路設計等。由於在總計畫的構想中，所建立
的無線感測網路將內崁於建築物結構中，因此
電源供應無法依賴內建電池，而將採用類似
RFID 之被動操作模式，將電能以無線方式傳
輸，再經過轉換為直流電源提供系統晶片中之
電路使用。在製程特性、訊號頻寬、功率損耗、
製作成本及天線設計的考慮之下，所使用的頻
率範圍為 800 至 900 MHz 的 UHF 頻段。由於
系統晶片的電源供應依賴無線傳輸，因此射頻
電路在設計上，超低功率消耗將是最重要的技
術指標，除了必須針對接收端及發射端的架構
進行探討之外，各組成電路的省電特性也是研
發的重點。本計畫將採用電流再利用的設計技
巧來降低射頻電路所需的偏壓電流，並使用互
補式電晶體堆疊的組態以降低電路的操作電
壓，如此將可達到系統規格的需求。除此之
外，在無線電源供應模組的研發重點，將以提
高電能轉換效率，降低能量損耗及電路佈局微
小化等為目標。 
英文摘要 
In order to realize the wireless sensor 
network for building structural health monitoring, 
ultra-low power RF techniques are proposed. 
The RF modules required for the hardware 
implementation include the RF transceiver the 
frontend and telemetry power unit. Considering 
issues such as the process technology, signal 
bandwidth, power dissipation, cost and antenna 
design, the RF modules are operated in the UHF 
bands (800 to 900 MHz). In stead of using a 
built-in battery, the wireless sensor SoC operates 
in the passive mode to prolong the system 
lifetime and to reduce the maintenance cost. 
Therefore, the first design task is to optimize the 
wireless power unit to achieve the highest power 
conversion efficiency possible while maintaining 
a low leakage and a minimum hardware cost. 
Since the functionality of the wireless sensor 
SoC relies on the telemetry power, the power 
dissipation of the RF frontend circuits has to be 
minimized. In this proposal, novel circuit 
techniques including current-reused concept and 
complementary cascaded topology are utilized in 
the RF circuits, leading to a significant reduction 
in both power dissipation and supply voltage. 
The developed circuit techniques can be widely 
used for ultra-low power and ultra-low voltage 
RF applications. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
本計畫將針對適用於無線感測網路使用
之射頻電路模組進行研發，研究主題包括射頻
訊號發射端、接收端及無線電源供應模組，其
系統架構如圖五所示。在開始訂定研究方法之
前，必須先依據系統應用的需求和限制，選擇
適當的頻段進行無線傳輸。一般而言，無線感
測網路系統在頻率的選擇上，除了必須符合政
府所訂定頻段分配法規外，主要考慮的重點包
括製程特性 頻寬需求、天線尺寸、製作成本
 
穩壓器:電路由一個運算放大器與驅動電晶體
M16 構成，由於參考電壓大約在 0.6V 左右，跟
我們期望的輸出電壓一樣，故在輸出級不需要
分壓電阻即可回授回放大器進行比較，此種作
法相當有利於面積的縮小，因為穩壓器的耗電
量非常小，電流大約都在微安培等級，在這樣
的電流下，所需要的分壓電阻大小約為 MOhm
等級，在積體電路的設計環境下，如此大的電
阻在實作上面積花費將相當巨大。 
 
 
 
電路佈局及模擬結果 
 
 
 
Supply Voltage 0.6 V 
Maximum Supply 
Current 
10uA 
Area 0.684 × 0.425mm2 
Power 1uW 
Minimum Input 
Level 
-10dBm 
Operating 
Frequency 
900MHz~2.5GHz 
 
 
四、 結論與討論 
本研究計畫為研發低電壓及低功率之射
頻電路，主要的目的是提出創新的電路架構，
並藉由晶片製作加以驗證。本研究群的相關研
究結果，共計 IEEE 期刊論文 3 篇及國際會議
論文 1 篇。 
 
468 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 3, MARCH 2007
Fig. 2. Schematic of the proposed VCO topology.
Fig. 3. Simplified half-circuit model of the proposed VCO.
to a superior close-in phase noise. Since the varactors are em-
ployed in the source terminals of the cross-coupled transistors,
a more effective controlled mechanism of the tank resonance is
presented. Therefore, a reasonable frequency tuning range can
be achieved even with a reduced voltage range for the controlled
signal . To further investigate the proposed VCO, detailed
circuit analysis is provided as follows.
A. Startup Conditions
In order to derive the startup conditions and the oscillation
frequency, the equivalent half-circuit of the proposed VCO is
shown in Fig. 3, where and represent the losses of the
on-chip inductors and , respectively. Note that the losses
of the inductors are typically modeled by a series resistance.
In the equivalent circuit, the narrowband approximation is em-
ployed to simplify the analysis, and the shunt resistance and
can be estimated by
(1)
(2)
where and are the equivalent series resistances of
and , respectively. Besides, the transistor parasitic capaci-
tances, which are much smaller than the values of and ,
are neglected. From the small-signal analysis, the transfer func-
tion between and is given by
(3)
where
The circuit oscillates if the loop gain is unity, which corresponds
to a voltage gain at the oscillation frequency
(4)
With proper arrangement, (4) yields
(5)
and
(6)
Provided in typical design cases, (5) can
be simplified as
(7)
From (7), the oscillation frequency can be approximated by
(8)
Based on (6) and (8), the required transconductance to sus-
tain the oscillation is given by
(9)
Assuming that and , (8) and (9)
can be simplified as
(10)
(11)
From (10), it is clear that the variation of has more in-
fluence on than does. As a result, the capacitance
is realized by varactors in this design, leading to a reasonable
tuning range for the VCO under ultra-low-voltage operations.
Note that a large capacitance value for is desirable to enhance
the frequency tuning range. However, the required transconduc-
tance to sustain the oscillation increases with the ratio of and
. Therefore, a design tradeoff is established between the fre-
quency tuning range and the power consumption of the VCO
by the circuit parameter . Once the capacitance ratio is
determined, the required transconductance of the cross-coupled
470 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 3, MARCH 2007
Fig. 8. Simulated phase noise at various temperatures with an offset frequency
of 1 MHz.
Fig. 9. I–V characteristics of the MOSFET with and without FBB.
Fig. 10. Simulated threshold voltage and drain current of the MOSFET with
FBB.
C. Phase Noise
Since the proposed VCO is operated under an ultra-low dc
voltage, the cross-coupled transistors are potentially biased in
the weak-inversion region. Therefore, the drain noise of the tran-
sistors is no longer dominated by the thermal noise
as [14]
(16)
where is the channel conductance with , and is the
thermal noise coefficient. Instead, the drain noise is expressed
Fig. 11. Proposed methodology for the design of the low-voltage VCO.
TABLE I
CIRCUIT PARAMETERS OF THE VCO
as [15]
(17)
where is the drain current, is the thermal voltage, and
is the weak inversion slope factor. From (17), in-
cludes not only the contribution from the thermal noise, but also
that of the shot noise since the drain current consists of both
drift and diffusion components as the gate overdrive
approaches . Due to the fact that is generally greater
than for low-power operation, the cross-coupled tran-
sistors may contribute more noise to the tank as the supply
voltage decreases. Therefore, it imposes a fundamental limita-
tion on the phase noise of the VCO for ultra-low-power and
ultra-low-voltage applications.
472 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 3, MARCH 2007
TABLE II
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OF THE LOW-VOLTAGE AND LOW-POWER VCOS
to the short-channel and narrow-channel effects [17]. Typically,
transistors with a large channel width and a minimum gate
length exhibit a reduced , which is preferable for low-voltage
operations. In this VCO topology, the fundamental limitation
on the supply voltage is imposed by the threshold voltage of
the cross-coupled transistors. To further reduce the supply
voltage, the FBB technique is adopted as shown in Fig. 9. For
a MOSFET device, the threshold voltage is governed by the
body effect as [18]
(18)
where is the threshold voltage for V, is a
physical parameter with a typical value of 0.3 V, is the sub-
strate doping, and is the permittivity of silicon. By applying
a forward bias voltage to the body through a current-limiting re-
sistor , the effective threshold voltage is thus reduced while
maintaining a minimum forward junction current between the
body and the source terminals. The simulated effective threshold
voltage and the drain current of a MOSFET with m
and m are demonstrated in Fig. 10, indicating a
threshold voltage reduction more than 100 mV due to the FBB
technique.
III. CIRCUIT DESIGN
Fig. 11 shows the design procedure of the high-performance
VCO. The circuit design starts with the inductors and . For
simplification, both inductors are chosen to be identical as ,
which are optimized for a high- factor at the frequencies of in-
terest. Once the inductance is determined, the required value of
can be obtained from the designated oscillation
frequency by (10)
(19)
By defining the capacitance ratio , the values of
and are given by
(20)
(21)
The circuit performance of the VCO is strongly influenced by
the design parameter . As indicated in (11) and (15), the re-
quired transconductance of the cross-coupled transistors and
the associated output swing increase with . Considering the
design specifications such as the phase noise, output swing,
tuning range, and power consumption, the optimum is thus
determined and the circuit parameters including the capacitance
values and the transistor aspect ratio can be calculated accord-
ingly. Finally, a global optimization is performed and design
iterations may be needed to satisfy the required circuit perfor-
mance. Following the design procedures, the parameters of the
VCO design are tabulated in Table I. Based on the narrow-
band approximation in (1) and (2), the calculated value of
is 633 in this particular case. The resulting values for
and are 1.2 10 and 1.06 10 , respec-
tively, which validate the assumption in
the theoretical derivation of the proposed VCO.
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
The proposed VCO is implemented in a standard 1P6M
0.18- m CMOS process provided by a commercial foundry.
With an optimum layout for the RF performance, the -channel
MOSFETs in the deep n-well exhibit a maximum oscillation
frequency up to 60 GHz. As for the passive components,
top AlCu metallization layer of 2- m thickness is available
for on-chip inductance while metal–insulator–metal (MIM)
capacitors with oxide intermetal dielectric are also provided.
Fig. 12 shows a microphotograph of the fabricated circuit
with a chip area of 0.55 0.9 mm including the pads. In order
to enhance the quality factor and to ensure the layout symmetry
for fully differential operations, center-tapped spiral inductors
164 978-4-900784-04-8 2007 Symposium on VLSI Circuits Digest of Technical Papers
16-2
A 0.5-V 1.9-GHz Low-Power Phase-Locked Loop in 0.18-Pm CMOS 
Hsieh-Hung Hsieh, Chung-Ting Lu and Liang-Hung Lu 
Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering and Department of Electrical Engineering, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
Abstract
Implemented in a standard 0.18-Pm CMOS process, a 0.5-V 
1.9-GHz low-power phase-locked loop (PLL) is presented. 
Due to the use of the forward-body-bias technique, the thre- 
shold voltage of the MOSFETs is effectively reduced, making 
it possible to operate the PLL at an ultra-low supply voltage. In 
addition, various techniques for low-power and low-voltage 
operations are also adopted in the design of the building blocks. 
With a dc power consumption of 4.5 mW, the fabricated PLL 
measures in-band and out-of-band phase noise of -83.4 dBc/Hz 
and -135.3 dBc/Hz at 100-kHz and 10-MHz frequency offset, 
respectively. 
I. Introduction
With the increasing demands on the portable wireless com- 
munication devices, the development of high-performance 
integrated circuits with low power consumption has attracted 
great attention in recent years. Being a crucial building block 
in a communication system, the phase-locked loop (PLL) is 
recognized as one of the most power-consuming components. 
It is desirable to implement the PLL circuit for minimum 
power consumption while maintaining the desirable perform- 
ance such as the phase noise and output power to satisfy the 
system specifications. An effective approach to achieve low- 
power operations is to reduce the supply voltage. However, 
limited by the required threshold voltage, the performance of 
the conventional PLL circuits degrades significantly as the 
supply voltage decreases. It is still a great design challenge to 
realize a low-voltage PLL operating at multi-gigahertz frequ- 
encies. In this work, the forward-body-bias technique along 
with other low-voltage circuit topologies is employed. A 1.9- 
GHz PLL operated at a 0.5-V supply voltage is successfully 
demonstrated in a standard 0.18-Pm CMOS process.  
II. PLL Design
Fig. 1 shows the block diagram of the proposed PLL. In 
order to operate at an ultra-low supply voltage, the forward- 
body-bias technique is introduced. As indicated in Fig. 2, the 
body terminal of the NMOS (PMOS) transistor is connected to 
the supply voltage (ground potential) through a resistor 5%. As 
the depletion width underneath the gate decreases, the thre- 
shold voltage is effectively reduced. Note that 5% serves as the 
current-limiting resistor to prevent strong conduction of the 
junctions, and the resistance value is 20 k: in this particular 
work. Due to the use of the forward body bias, the proposed 
PLL can be operate at a reduced supply voltage while main- 
aining sufficient overdrive for the individual building blocks to 
carry out the required functionality. 
In the proposed PLL architecture, the phase/frequency 
detector (PFD) is implemented by conventional DFF-based 
topology [1] due to the relatively low operating speed. The 
proposed charge pump is shown in Fig. 3. With the reduced 
supply voltage, stacking transistor stages should be prevented. 
Thus, the switches at the gate terminals of 0 and 0 are 
utilized to control the functionality of charging or discharging 
the loop filter [2]. Note that, once the controlled voltage 
approaches the supply voltage or the ground potential, the 
mismatch between the up and down currents may degrade the 
performance of the PLL. In order to address such issue, the 
controlled voltage is connected to the gate terminals of 0 and 
0, establishing a negative feedback to suppress the mismatch. 
For the desirable output characteristics, a second-order loop 
filter is employed. In the PLL design, one of the most 
challenging tasks is to realize a high-performance voltage- 
controlled oscillator (VCO) with a reduced supply voltage and 
power consumption. Fig. 4 shows the schematic of the VCO 
circuit [3]. In order to reduce the required supply voltage and 
to eliminate additional noise contribution, the tail current in a 
conventional cross-coupled VCO is replaced by an inductor /.
Due to the capacitive feedback established by &)% and &YDU, the 
drain and source voltages can swing above the supply voltage 
and below the ground potential. Consequently, an enhanced 
voltage swing can be achieved at the VCO output even with a 
reduced supply voltage, leading to a superior close-in phase 
noise. The VCO is followed by a frequency divider to form the 
closed-loop. With the low-voltage requirement, the frequency 
divider with a division ratio of 128 is realized by current-mode 
logics in this design. 
III. Experimental Results 
The proposed PLL is implemented in a standard 1P6M 0.18- 
Pm CMOS technology with a nominal voltage of 1.8 V. By 
employing the forward-body-bias technique, the threshold 
voltage of the MOSFETs is effectively reduced to 0.4 V for 
ultra-low voltage operations. Fig. 5 shows the die photograph 
of the fabricated circuit with a chip area of 1.2u1.1 mm2
including the pads, while the loop filter is realized by off-chip 
components. In order to drive the 50-: load of the test instru- 
ment, the VCO output is buffered by an open-drain amplifier. 
The chip was mounted on a FR4 test board and an Agilent 
E4407B spectrum analyzer was utilized to evaluate the PLL 
performance. 
Operated at a supply voltage of 0.5 V, the overall power dis- 
sipation of the PLL is 4.5 mW in which 2.5 mW is consumed 
by the VCO. The VCO performance is first characterized. By 
