  
2
2
I. The Purpose and the Importance 
In the past, the back light module of liquid crystal display (LCD) is mainly 
consisted of cold cathode fluorescent lamp (CCFL). However the CCFL does not 
have a good color space and its lifetime is just about 15000~50000 hours. 
Furthermore, there are some environmental issues in CCFL backlighting because it 
has hazardous material inside the lamp. For these reasons, the trend today is to 
replace CCFL into LED as the LCD backlight material. By contrast the red, green 
and blue (RGB) LEDs produce a color spectrum that is larger than not only the 
NTSC color space but also CCFL. Due to the advances in the technology of LED, 
the benefits for LED backlight has become evident. 
 
Fig 1. LED backlight driving block diagram 
The common LED backlight structure is usually like in Fig 1. It is composed of 
two parts. Firstly, boost DC/DC converter is to offer a sufficient voltage to 
overcome the LED forward voltage. Secondly, current balance unit is to regulate the 
current flow through each LED string and also have PWM dimming circuit to 
change the illumination through averaging the driving current. The current regulator 
also includes a minimum voltage detector and open loop detector for boost 
converter to dynamically regulate the output voltage, thus it can reduce unnecessary 
power loss. 
  
4
4
II. Research Steps 
i. The Design Theorem 
 
    
(a)                    (b) 
Fig 3. (a) Case I: Two LED strings having the same forward voltage. (b) Case II: Two 
LED strings having different forward voltage. 
 
The most important issue in design of a LED driving circuit is forward voltage 
variation, which will be unreliable as temperature and time vary. Although we can 
choose similar LED of forward voltage manually, the cost is too expensive. In Fig  
shows two different case of forward voltage. In Fig  (a), if the forward voltages of 
two LED strings are the same and sufficient high, the output voltage level of boost 
converter is enough equals to Vout. increases the amount of ∆V, the output of boost 
converter should also raise the amount of ∆V. Therefore, the constant current sink 
circuit has the head room equal to Vout –Vf as the forward voltage of LEDs 
changed before.  
Although the higher head room can contribute a more accurate current for LEDs, 
it will cause dispensable power dissipation. Therefore, the head room of the 
constant current sink circuit should be keep at the minimum value to prevent 
unnecessary power loss on it. 
 
ii. Minimizing Circuit with Constant Current Sink 
 
In Fig.4 is traditional constant current. Fig  shows the constant current sink 
circuit for regulate the LED currents. The external resistance Rext is an off-chip 
element to determine the LED current. The practical current through LEDs is the 
current Iref amplified by the current mirror. We use only one OP to replace OP of 6 
channels. It minimizes the chip area. 
  
6
6
circuit for different current application is significant. In this thesis, we proposed a 
load dependent minimum drain method to adjust the head room automatically.  
From the I-V characteristic of MOSFET we can know that, for a small current 
application the gate-source voltage is relative low and the drain-source voltage can 
be scaled down, too. Therefore, this thesis proposed a load dependent technique to 
save unnecessary power loss on the constant current sink circuit. 
 
Fig 6. Constant current sink circuit with load dependent minimum drain technique  
 
The comparisons of power consumption of constant sink circuit with and 
without load depend adjustment circuit are shown in TABLE , TABLE  
respectively. Considering to the condition of 20mA LED current, the power 
difference is 4mW for each sting. Therefore, if there are six strings parallel at once, 
24mW power loss can be saved. In conclusion, by using a load dependent VDS 
circuit can help to save the power loss in low current application. 
  
TABLE I  
The constant current sink circuit without load depend minimum drain circuit 
Current VDS Power Consumption 
ILED=10mA VCH,MIN = 0.9V 9mW 
ILED=20mA VCH,MIN = 0.9V 18mW 
ILED=30mA VCH,MIN = 0.9V 27mW 
 
 
  
8
8
III. Project Schedule & Achievement Anticipation 
i. Whole Chip Simulation 
The whole chip simulation results of the designed LED driving circuit are shown 
in Fig . In Fig , it shows the output voltage of the LED driving circuit and the head 
room voltage of the constant current sink circuit (VCH). The output voltage of the 
boost converter (Vout) is tends to about 41V at steady state to offer a sufficient 
voltage to overcome the forward voltage of LEDs.  
 
Fig 8. The waveform of output and VCH with PWM dimming. 
 
ii. Whole Chip Layout  
The proposed LED driving circuit with constant current sink circuit is 
implemented by the VIS CMOS 0.5um process. The whole chip layout is shown in 
Fig . The chip size of the designed driving circuit is 3660um * 2725um.  
 
R
ef
er
en
ce
 
T
ra
ck
in
g
B
G
&
O
S
C
2
7
2
5
u
m
 
Fig 9. The whole chip layout. 
  
10 
10
V.  Reference  
[1] George Patounakis, Yee Willian Li, and Kenneth L. Shepard, “A Fully 
Integrated On-Chip DC-DC Conversion and Power Management 
System,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39, no.3, pp. 443-451, March 
2004. 
[2] Jinwen Xiao, Angel V. Peterchev, Jianhui Zhang, and Seth R. Sanders, 
“A 4-uA Quiescent-Current Dual-Mode Digitally Controlled Buck 
Converter IC for Cellular Phone Applications,” IEEE J. Solid-State 
Circuits, vol. 39, no.12, pp. 2342-2348, Dec. 2004. 
[3] Biranchinath Sahu and Gabriel A. Rincon-Mora, “A high-efficiency, 
dual-mode, dynamic, buck-boost power supply IC for portable 
applications,” VLSI Design 2005, pp. 858-861, Jan. 2005 
[4] Paolo Sandri, Maria Rosa Borghi, and Luca Rigazio, “DC-to-DC 
Converter Function in a Pulse-Skipping Mode with Low Power 
Consumption and PWM Inhibit,” US Patent 5,745,352, Apr. 28, 1998. 
[5] Luo Ping, Li Zhaoji, Xiong Fugui, and Chenguangju; “Fuzzy pulse skip 
modulation mode in DC-DC converter,” Power Electronics Congress pp. 
87-91, Oct. 2004. 
[6] Joey Martin Esteves and Randy Guy Flatness, “Adjustable Minimum 
Peak Inductor Current Level For Burst Mode In Current-Mode DC/DC 
Regulators,” US Patent 6,724,174, Apr. 20, 2004. 
[7] Angel V. Peterchev, “Digital Pulse-Width Modulation Control in Power 
Electronic Circuits: Theory and Applications,” Ph.D. thesis, University of 
California, Berkeley, 2005. 
[8] Hassan Pooya Forghani-zadeh, Gabriel A. Rincon-Mora, 
“Current-sensing techniques for DC-DC converters,” MWSCAS-2002 
vol.2, pp. II-577 - II-580, Aug. 2002. 
[9] Cheung Fai Lee and Philip K. T. Mok, “A Monolithic Current-Mode 
CMOS DC-DC Converter with On-Chip Current-Sensing Technique,” 
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 3-14, Jan. 2004. 
[10] Benjamin J. patella, Aleksandar Prodic, Art Zirger, and Dragan 
Maksimovic, “High-frequency digital PWM controller IC for DC-DC 
converters,” IEEE Trans. Power Electronics, vol. 18, no.1, pp. 438-446, 
Jan. 2003. 
際會議，是相當具有指標性的會議。會議的內容包羅萬象，包含了幾乎所有電子
電路領域的內容，對於能夠參與這次會議，本人感到莫大的榮幸。來參與會議的
人，無論是學術界或是業界，都有著一股想要認識新技術和新知識的好奇心，這
對我來講是莫大的激勵，也因為這樣我在聆聽各種演講時，也會努力認真的去了
解提問者所提問的內容，藉以從不同的思維模式，來看待不同的電路運作理論。
另外，也藉由世界各地不同人的演講、討論，使我對電路設計有了更深一層且不
一樣的想法，我覺得這些所獲得的東西，都是相當可貴的。而在我所專精的電力
電子和類比電路設計方面，對於目前全世界各地方的研究和發展方向，讓我有另
外不同的啟發，也有更多研究的方線與思維，對於以後我在研究上的新發展有更
多幫助，我想是不可言喻的。 
另一方面，這次有帶領學生發表被接受的論文，這對我來說是另外一種收
穫，因為在每次的督導學生及鼓勵下，學生更可以在會議場合表現出該有的研究
者風範，以及對於台下發問問題的回答功力都進步頗多。在事前的準備，不管是
投影片的製作或是講稿的撰寫，都花了學生不少工夫和精神，再加上他可以不厭
其煩的到我辦公室練習，並修正缺失。甚至到了國外晚上在飯店，也是不斷的一
直重複練習和模擬上台所會發生的狀況。幸好事前準備還算是充足，因此在報告
時也還算是順利。這種國際性的重要會議，能跟各國的高手和各國不同文化背景
的人互相交流，其實是非常難能可貴的。藉由這種互相交流，互相切磋，相信彼
此之間所激發出來的火花，必定更加難能可貴。也因為這樣，使的我們整體國內
的學術水準可以有效率的提升，這些都是我們所樂於見到的。 
然而因為是國際型的重要會議，所以英語能力是很重要的一部分。由於因與
是屬於國際上的通用語言，但我們本身並不是屬於英語系的國家，所以先天上英
語的流利程度就輸外國人不少了。而流利的英語能力是深入討論所必須具備的基
本能力，所以我們在這一方面還有需要多多加強才是。 
三、建議 
非常感謝國科會給我這次機會，讓我可以到美國去參加 2008 國際電路與系
統研討會，讓我可以有機會和世界級的大師高手齊聚一堂，一起討論、一起研究。
也因此這趟旅程真的讓我收穫不少。但是由於油價高漲的問題，光是行程的機票
費就非常可觀，本人也有聽說有人因此放棄出國參與會議的機會，我想這些都是
非常可惜的。另外此行也發現除了歐美人士之外，亞洲其他國家與會的人員也非
