 2
large-scale comparisons of their genomic 
data. One of the most promising ways to do 
this research is to compare the orders of the 
identical genes in two different genomes. 
Unlike from the traditional point mutations 
such as insertions, deletions, and 
substitutions, various large-scale mutations, 
such as reversals, transpositions, 
block-interchanges, fissions and fusions and 
translocations have been proposed to 
determine the evolutionary distance 
between two related genomes by comparing 
the gene orders. Usually, the genome 
rearrangement study can be modeled as a 
combinatorial problem of finding a series of 
large-scale mutations to transform one 
genome into another. Therefore, the main 
purposes of this proposal are to study and 
solve the genome rearrangement problem 
under reversals, and block-interchanges. In 
respect of computational theory, we have 
made use of breakpoint graphs to design 
efficient algorithm for solving the genome 
rearrangement problem under reversals and 
block-interchanges. In respect of practical 
applications, on the other hand, we have 
implemented our algorithm with 
incorporation of some existing programs to 
build a web server related to genome 
rearrangements that can help biologists 
measure the evolutionary differences among 
several organisms by comparing the 
differences of their gene-order data. To 
enhance the system’s ability, we have also 
equipped it with the function of 
automatically identifying the homologous 
or conserved regions that are shared by all 
the input sequence data so that it can take 
sequence data as input. In addition, the 
system has further been integrated with the 
NJ (Neighbor Joining) and UPGMA 
(Un-weighted Pair-Group Method using 
Arithmetic mean) programs for 
reconstructing the evolutionary trees 
according to the computed distances for all 
pairs of input organisms. 
 
Keywords: Bioinformatics; Computational 
Biology; Genome Rearrangements; Reversal 
Mutations; Block-Interchanges Mutations 
 
二、計劃報告內容 
In the late 1980s, J. Palmer and 
Herbon [PH88] discovered a novel kind of 
evolutionary changes, genome 
rearrangements, in plant organelles by 
comparing the mitochondrial genomes of 
Brassica oleracea (cabbage) and Brassica 
campestris (turnip). They found that these 
molecules are almost identical in gene 
sequences, but differ dramatically in gene 
order. With the parsimony (shortest) 
scenario of three reversal rearrangements 
(also known as inversions), the cabbage 
gene order can be transformed into the 
turnip gene order, where a reversal affects 
on a contiguous interval genes by inverting 
the gene order and signs. Since then, such 
genome rearrangement studies of 
comparing the gene orders have attracted a 
lot of attentions, because they can measure 
