1行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
基於渦漩誘發振動的壓電式能量收集器的設計、製作與特性分析
Piezoelectric Energy Harvesting from Vortex-Induced Vibrations
計 畫 編 號：NSC 99-2221-E-005-075
執 行 期 限：99 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07 月 31 日
主 持 人：王東安 國立中興大學精密工程所
計畫參與人員：黃彥彬 國立中興大學精密工程所
計畫參與人員：范輝尊 國立中興大學精密工程所
Contents
一、中文摘要
二、Introduction
三、Design and modeling
四、Fabrication and experiments
五、Self critique
六、References
一、中文摘要
本研究探討一個新型的迷你水力發電
機。此發電機是利用卡爾曼旋渦道產生之作用
力，振動壓電薄膜，並在壓電薄膜的電極上產
生電荷，藉此產生電能。我們發展一套設計此
發電機的方式，並製作此發電機的原型以進行
實驗驗證，此原型發電機能提供 120 毫伏的峰
對峰開路電壓，瞬間輸出功率為 0.7 nW。實
驗結果與設計分析的結果相近。此基於渦漩誘
發振動的壓電式能量收集器能將流體動能轉
換成電能，可用於遠距感測器之電源供應。
關鍵詞：壓電式能量收集器；卡爾曼旋渦道
Abstract
A new mini hydro energy generator for
harnessing energy from Kármán vortex street
behind a bluff body in a water flow is developed.
It converts flow energy into electrical energy by
piezoelectric conversion with oscillation of a
piezoelectric film. A finite element model is
developed in order to estimate the generated
voltage of the piezoelectric film subjected to a
distributed load. Prototypes of the energy
generator are fabricated and tested.
Experimental results show that an open circuit
output voltage of 120 ppmV and an
instantaneous output power of 0.7 nW are
generated when the pressure oscillates with an
amplitude of nearly 0.3 kPa and a frequency of
about 52 Hz. The solution of the generated
voltage based on the finite element model agrees
well with the experiments. Based on the finite
element model, the effects of the piezoelectric
film dimensions and types of piezoelectric film
on the output voltage of the generator can be
investigated. This energy harvesting approach
has the potential of converting hydraulic energy
3film is placed on top of a flexible diaphragm,
which is located in the wake of a bluff body.
The piezoelectric film oscillates with the
flexible diaphragm due to the vortices shed from
the bluff body in a water flow. As illustrated in
Fig. 1(a), a flow channel with a flexible
diaphragm is connected to a flow source. A
piezoelectric film of a cantilever type is glued to
a bulge affixed to the top surface of the flexible
diaphragm. A bluff body is placed in the flow
channel. Pressure in the flow channel behind
the bluff body may fluctuate with the same
frequency as the pressure variation caused by
the Kármán vortex street. Fig. 1(b) shows that
the pressure in the channel causes the diaphragm
and the piezoelectric film to deflect in the
upward direction. As the pressure increases to
the maximum, the diaphragm reaches its highest
position (Fig. 1(c)). When the pressure drops,
the diaphragm and the piezoelectric film deflect
downward (Fig. 1(d)). As the pressure
decreases to the minimum, the diaphragm
reaches its lowest position (Fig. 1(e)). Thus,
by connecting the energy generator to an
ambient flow source, the oscillating movement
of the diaphragm with the cantilever
piezoelectric film attached to it makes the
energy harvesting possible.
三、Design and modeling
A piezoelectric energy generator is
shown in Fig. 2(a). Fig. 2(b) is an exploded
view of the energy generator. It consists of a
flow channel, a bluff body, a PDMS diaphragm
bonded to the channel, and a piezoelectric film
attached to the polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS)
diaphragm through a bulge made of acrylic
blocks. The vibration energy is converted to
electrical energy by the piezoelectric film [12].
Flow past a bluff body creates an unstable wake
in the form of alternating vortices and induces
the periodic pressure variation [13]. The
frequency at which the vortices are shed from
the bluff body is given by the Strouhal number,
St [14]
 U/St  (1)
where  is the frequency of oscillating flow,
 is the characteristic length, and U is the
free-stream velocity. The shedding from a
circular cylinder immersed in a steady flow
occurs in the range 72 10Re10  , where Re
is the Reynolds number, with an average
Strouhal number 21.02/ Ud  [15]. For
a trapezoidal bluff body, the Strouhal number is
given as [16]
 UH /St 1 (2)
where 1H is the height of the front side of the
trapezoidal cylinder. The front height 1H and
rear height 2H of the trapezoidal cylinder are
denoted in Fig. 2(a). Chung and Kang [16]
reported that the values of the Strouhal number
have a range from approximately 0.135 to
approximately 0.155 for trapezoidal cylinders
with the height ratio, 12 / HH , ranging from 0.3
to 1.0 and the Re values of 100, 150, and 200.
Using Gauss’s law, the charge accumulated 
on the piezoelectric electrodes is given by
 S dADQ 3 (3)
where 3D is the electrical displacement in the
thickness direction, and dA is a differential
area on the electrode surface S . For the
piezoelectric film mounted on the diaphragm
through a bulge as shown in Fig. 2(a), we have
zzyyxx dddD  3331313  (4)
where xx , yy and zz are the normal
5commercial finite element program ABAQUS
[17] is employed to perform the computations.
Fig. 5 shows the induced peak-to-peak
voltage as a function of the pressure difference
minmax PP  in the flow channel behind the bluff
body based on the finite element model. The
range of the pressure loads considered is based
on the measured pressures in the flow channel of
a fabricated prototype. The peak-to-peak
voltage increases nearly linearly as the pressure
difference increases, since the behaviors of the
materials are assumed to be linear elastic in the
model. For the pressure difference ranging
from 0.3 to 0.7 kPa, the maximum and
minimum of the generated peak-to-peak voltage
are 110 and 47 mV, respectively. The static
analyses for the energy generator can be used
for low frequency applications.
四、Fabrication and experiments
The PDMS diaphragm is fabricated by a
molding process in an acrylic mold. Fig. 6
shows the assembly steps of the energy
generator. The walls, the top plate and the
bottom plate of the flow channel are
manufactured by a milling machine. Fig. 7 is a
photo of an assembled energy generator.
Fig. 8 is a photo of the experimental
apparatus for testing of the fabricated device.
The energy generator is placed on an optical
table for vibration isolation. From the bottom
of a storage tank, an inlet pipe is run down to the
inlet of the energy generator. The water level
in the storage tank is kept constant for a steady
water flow at the inlet of the flow channel.
Using gravity, water is forced into the inlet of
the energy generator. Tap water is pumped into
the storage tank through a pump located in a
recycle tank. An outlet pipe extending
between the outlet of the energy generator and
the recycle tank provides a continuous supply of
water. Fig. 9 is a schematic of the
measurement apparatus. The oscillating
deflection of the piezoelectric film is measured
by a fiberoptic displacement sensor (MTI-2000,
MTI Instruments Inc., US). The generated
voltage of the piezoelectric film is recorded and
analyzed by a data acquisition unit (PCI-5114,
National Instruments Co., US). The pressure
in the flow channel is measured with a
subminiature pressure sensor (PS-05KC, Kyowa
Electronic Instruments Co. Ltd., Japan)
embedded in the bottom plate of the flow
channel, nearly 8 mm behind the bluff body and
opposite to the flexible diaphragm. The
pressure sensor is connected to a data
acquisition unit (DBU-120A, Kyowa Electronic
Instruments Co. Ltd., Japan).
The experimental results are shown in Fig.
10. Fig. 10(a) shows the pressure history in the
flow channel behind the bluff body, where the
pressure oscillates with an amplitude of nearly
0.3 kPa and a frequency of 52 Hz. The
measured deflection history of the free end of
the piezoelectric film is shown in Fig. 10(b).
The film oscillates with an amplitude of about
20 μm. The measured open circuit voltage
generated by the piezoelectric film is shown in
Fig. 10(c). The output peak-to-peak voltage is
nearly 120 ppmV . The time history of the
experimental results are considered typical of
the measurements in a duration of 20 seconds.
Figs. 10(d-f) are the power spectral density
corresponding to Figs. 10(a-c), respectively, but
are based on series of the measurements in the
duration of 20 seconds. Fast Fourier transform
is used to compute the power spectral density.
It can be seen from Figs. 10(d-f) that there is one
obvious peak value of 52 Hz. It is evident that
7六、References
[1] REN21, Renewables 2010 Global Status
Report; 2010. pp. 15-16.
[2] H. Okamoto , T. Suzuki , K. Mori, Z. Cao,
T. Onuki, H. Kuwano, The advantages and
potential of electret-based vibration-driven
micro energy harvesters, International
Journal of Energy Research 33(2009)
1180-1190.
[3] S.E. Lyshevski, High-power density
miniscale power generation and energy
harvesting systems, Energy Conversion
and Management 52(2011) 46-52.
[4] D. Krähenbühl, C. Zwyssig, H. Weser,
J.W. Kolar, Theoretical and experimental
results of a mesoscale electric power
generation system from pressurized gas
flow, Journal of Micromechanics and
Microengineering 19(2009) 094009.
[5] A.S. Holmes, G. Hong, K.P. Pullen,
Axial-flux permanent magnet machines for
micropower generation, Journal of
Microelectromechanical Systems 14(2005)
54-62.
[6] F. Herrault, C.H. Ji, M.G. Allen,
Ultraminiaturized high-speed
permanent-magnet generators for
milliwatt-level power generation, Journal
of Microelectromechanical Systems
17(2008) 1376-1387.
[7] M. Sanchez-Sanz, B. Fernandez, A.
Velazquez, Energy-harvesting
microresonator based on the forces
generated by the Kammon street around a
rectangular prism, Journal of
Microelectromechanical Systems 18(2009)
449-457.
[8] J.J. Allen, A.J. Smits, Energy harvesting
eel, Journal of Fluids and Structures
15(2001) 629-640.
[9] G.W. Taylor, J.R. Burns, S.M. Kammann,
W.B. Powers, T.R. Welsh, The energy
harvesting eel: A small subsurface
ocean/river power generator, IEEE Journal
of Oceanic Engineering 26(2001) 539-547.
[10] Tang L, Païdoussis MP, Jiang J.
Cantilevered flexible plates in axial flow:
Energy transfer and the concept of
flutter-mill. Journal of Sound and Vibration
2009;326(1-2):263-276.
[11] Blevins RD. Flow-induced vibration 2nd
edition. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold;
1990.
[12] Howells CA. Piezoelectric energy
harvesting. Energy Conversion and
Management 2009;50(7):1847-1850.
[13] Violette R, de Langre E, Szydlowski J.
Computation of vortex-induced vibrations
of long structures using a wake oscillator
model: Comparison with DNS and
experiments. Computers & Structures
2007;85(11-14):1134-1141.
[14] Young DF, Munson BR, Okiishi TH. A
brief introduction to fluid mechanics. New
York: John Wiley & Sons Inc.; 2001.
[15] White FM. Fluid Mechanics. New York:
McGraw-Hill Co.; 1986.
[16] Chung YJ, Kang SH. Laminar vortex
shedding from a trapezoidal cylinder with
different height ratios. Physics of Fluids
2000;12(5):1251-1254.
[17] Hibbitt HD, Karlsson BI, Sorensen EP.
ABAQUS user manual, Version 6-2.
Providence, RI: HKS Inc.; 2001.
[18] Hohne DN, Younger JG, Solomon MJ.
Flexible microfluidic devices for
mechanical property characterization of
soft viscoelastic solids such as bacterial
biofilms. Langmuir
9Figure 2: (a) An assembled energy generator. (b)
Components of the energy generator.
Figure 3: (a) A schematic of the energy generator. (b) A
finite element mesh of the flexible diaphragm, the bulge
and the piezoelectric film. (c) A close-up view of the
mesh near a corner of the piezoelectric film.
Figure 4: Measured stress-strain curve of the PDMS
material.
Figure 5: Generated peak-to-peak voltage as a function of
the pressure difference in the flow channel behind the
bluff body based on the finite element analyses.
11
Figure 10: Experimental results. (a) Pressure variation
in the flow channel. (b) Deflection of the free end of the
cantilever piezoelectric film. (c) Output voltage of the
piezoelectric film. (d-f) Power spectral density
corresponding to (a-c).
2The 1st International Symposium on Automotive & Convergence Engineering
一、會議邀請函
二、參加會議經過
2011/1/17 在會議會場入口前合照，左起 Huy-Tuan Pham,
Dung-An Wang, Danh-Thao Nguyen (Head of Eternal Relaions Office, Hochiminh City University
of Technology)
41. INTRODUCTION
Development of wireless sensor networks for industrial process monitoring and control
demands an economical source of energy without supply of fuel and replacement of finite
power sources. By harvesting energy from the environment, miniature sensing/actuating
devices can be self-powered in order to avoid the replacement of finite power sources.
Sources of energy harvesting can be flowing water, rain, tides, wind, sunlight, and geothermal
heat.
Fig. 1. Operation of an electromagnetic energy harvester.
One approach to harvest energy is to convert mechanical energy of ambient vibration into
electrical energy by electromagnetic induction [1-3]. We develop a new electromagnetic
energy-harvesting device based on vibration induced by Kármán vortex street. As illustrated
in Fig. 1(a), a flow channel with a flexible diaphragm is connected to a flow source. A
permanent magnet is glued to a bulge on top of the diaphragm and a coil is placed above the
magnet. The pressure fluctuation due to vortex shedding from a bluff body drives the
diaphragm into vibration. As shown in Fig. 1(b), the increase of the pressure causes the
diaphragm to deflect in the upward direction. As the pressure increases to the maximum, the
diaphragm reaches its highest position (see Fig. 1(c)). When the pressure drops, the
diaphragm moves downward (see Fig. 1(d)). As the pressure decreases to the minimum, the
diaphragm reaches its lowest position (see Fig. 1(e)). Thus, by connecting the energy
harvester to a flow source, the oscillating movement of the diaphragm with an attached
magnet under a coil makes the energy harvesting possible. The focus of this paper is on the
investigation of energy extraction from magnet vibration induced by vortex shedding from a
bluff body in a fluid flow. Fabrication of the energy harvester is described. Experimental
setup to measure the pressure, displacement and output voltage of the device is reported.
The experimental results are compared with the results of the analyses.
63. FABRICATION AND EXPERIMENTS
3.1. Fabrication
In order to verify the effectiveness of the proposed energy harvesting device, prototypes of
the energy harvester are fabricated. The PDMS diaphragm is fabricated by a molding
process in an acrylic mold. The walls, the top plate and the bottom plate of the flow channel
are manufactured by a milling machine. First, the walls are glued to the bottom plate. Next,
a trapezoidal bluff body is affixed to the walls. Then, the top plate of the flow channel with
an embedded PDMS diaphragm is attached to the top surface of the walls. Subsequently, an
acrylic bulge is glued to the center of the PDMS diaphragm, and a magnet is glued to the top
surface of the bulge. Finally, the inner housing with the coil wrapped around its exterior
surface is placed inside the outer housing, which is then glued to the top surface of the acrylic
blocks to complete the assembly steps. The distance between the top surface of the magnet
and the bottom of the coil is 1 mm. Fig. 3 is a photo of an assembled energy harvester.
Fig. 3. Assembled energy harvester.
3.2. Experiments
Fig. 4 is a photo of the experimental apparatus for testing of the fabricated device. The
energy harvester is placed on an optical table for vibration isolation. From the bottom of a
storage tank, an inlet pipe is run down to the inlet of the energy harvester. The water level in
the storage tank is kept constant for a steady water flow at the inlet of the flow channel.
Using gravity, water is forced into the inlet of the energy harvester. Tap water is pumped
into the storage tank through a pump located in a recycle tank. An outlet pipe extending
between the outlet of the energy harvester and the recycle tank provides a continuous supply
of water.
8The experimental results are shown in Fig. 6. Fig. 6(a) shows the pressure history in the
flow channel behind the bluff body, where the pressure oscillates with an amplitude of nearly
0.3 kPa and a frequency of 62 Hz. The measured displacement history of the magnet is
shown in Fig. 6(b). The measured open circuit voltage induced by the coil is shown in Fig.
6(c). The output peak-to-peak voltage is nearly 20 mV. The time history of the
experimental results are considered typical of the measurements in a duration of 20 seconds.
Figs. 6(d-f) are the power spectral density corresponding to Figs. 6(a-c), respectively, but are
based on series of the measurements in the duration of 20 seconds. Fast Fourier transform is
used to compute the power spectral density. It can be seen from Figs. 6(d-f) that there is one
obvious peak value of 62 Hz. It is evident that the same peak values shown in Figs. 6(d-f)
are caused by the pressure fluctuation in the flow channel. The low frequency noise, below
30 Hz, observed in Figs. 6(d-f) can be attributed to the fact that the flows of the experimental
setup are always contaminated by ambient noise sources, and the geometry of the bluff body
and the walls of the flow channel are not perfectly symmetric and smooth.
Fig. 6. Experimental results. (a) Pressure variation in the flow channel. (b) Displacement
of the magnet. (c) Induced voltage of the coil. (d-f) Power spectral density corresponding
to (a-c).
In order to evaluate the harvesting system, experiments on the electrical power output of the
device are performed. A matched load can be connected to the device to maximize output
power. The internal electrical resistance of the device is measured by a LCR meter (WK
4235, Wayne Kerr Electronics, Ltd., UK). The instantaneous power can be expressed as
R
V
P
2)
~
2( (2)
where R is the resistance value of the matched load and V~ is the root-mean-square value
10
World Renewable Energy Congress 2011–Sweden
一、會議邀請函
二、參加會議經過
5/7 上午搭機離開台灣。
5/8 下午到達瑞典 Linkoping
圖 1. 於會場前
5/9 參加開幕式、聆聽講座「快速變動世界中之新全球能源議題」
5/10 聆聽講座「生物能源科技」、參觀 Linkoping 大學、聆聽生質柴油議程
聽關於非洲電力政策的演講 講員希望以 Robinhood 及 Donkey 理論 解決非洲電能
分配不均的困境
12
5/14 離開瑞典
5/15 抵達台灣
三、與會心得
 與會人員多讚譽這是最成功的大會，理由
 詢問處、報到處、論文上載處、茶水區、休憩區、小組會談區、點心區、書商
展示區等各區布置寬敞、設施便利、器具整潔，服務人員專業、態度自然大方
合宜，無訓練不佳之工作人員、無稚嫩尚學習中的服務人員
 大會會場位於大學城，空氣良好，社區環境優美、可步行至餐廳、旅館、會場、
公園、車站、博物館，自然環境得天獨厚，道路交通良好、大小車輛皆禮讓行
人先行，路權行人優先、腳踏車其次、汽車次之
 上載之論文未聞遺失
 每日點心精心準備，午餐適宜可口，午餐餐廳布置井然有序，餐飲服務人員訓
練有素、服務周到
 會場各議程之會議廳寬敞明亮、設施完善充足，議程主席皆有備而來，各議程
服務人員接熟稔議程及各設施
 大會所在之城市，環境優良，是居住旅遊開會的絕佳城市
 社區治安良好，夜晚遊人可獨自行走
 城市整齊乾淨，人行道暢通，無阻道之惡車，無據路之商賈
 街道兩旁建築物無龐雜之市招、無懸吊之雜物。
 市民行走無爭先恐後，人與人間保持適當距離
 警車遵守交通秩序，堪為市民表率
 旅館整齊乾淨、服務人員專業可親
 大會極優的專題演講
 講員學問淵博、視野不凡，俱為可事之師
 每日上午下午在各議程開議前，皆安排專題演講，內容充實，單以專題演講的
數目及內容而言，此大會已然是值得萬金
 講題廣泛深入，卻又具普民科技常識的水準，足可為大學通識演講之圭臬
 各議程內容涵刮各再生能源學門，經濟議題，政策議題、環境議題、人文議題，可
謂能源科技之大觀園，一遊乃平生之快
 南美、北美、東亞、南亞，中東、非洲、歐洲，來自各地學者齊聚一堂，兼學
各方學者之所長，又聞寰宇各地之能源之異，眼界識界大開
 各國因人文地理之異，政情民俗之變，能源政策各有爭奇之見，一非洲學者倡
言劫富者以濟貧（以富者之高電價補貼貧者之電費），一學者非馬來西亞主政
者藉經濟發展、開拓水利能源之名，劫原民之地，實為貪污傷民之事
14
1. Introduction
Recent development of wireless sensor networks allowing real-time industrial process monitoring,
machine health monitoring, environment monitoring, healthcare applications, and traffic control
demands an economical source of energy not requiring fuel or replacement of finite power stores.
Considerable effort is focused on use of renewable energy coming from natural resources such as
flowing water, rain, tides, wind, sunlight, geothermal heat and biomass. Renewable energy from
small-scale hydro, modern biomass, wind, solar, geothermal and biofuels accounted for 2.7% of
global final energy consumption in 2008 and is growing very rapidly [1].
Small hydro systems using turbines/wheels can be used to convert mechanical energy from water
flow into electricity. Krähenbühl et al. [2] designed an electromagnetic harvester based on a
turbine driven by water pressure drop in throttling valves and turbo expanders in plants that outputs
150 W power with a rotation speed of 490000 rpm. Their device comprises a turbine and a
permanent generator. A detailed electromagnetic machine design, rotor dynamics analysis and a
thermal design were required to construct their energy harvester. Holmes et al. [3] reported an
electromagnetic generator integrated with a microfabricated axial-flow microturbine. The power
output of the fabricated microdevice can be as high as 1.1 mW per stator when operated at a
rotation speed of 30000 rpm, but the fabrication processes for their prototype involve deep reactive
ion etching, multilevel electroplating, SU8 processing and laser micromachining. Herrault et al. [4]
presented a rotary electromagnetic generator to harvest the mechanical energy of an air-driven
turbine. The fabrication of their device requires electroforming, magnet demagnetization and laser
machining. A maximum output power of 6.6 mW is attained when their device is driven at a
rotation speed of 392000 rpm by an air turbine. The devices of Krähenbühl et al. [2], Holmes et
al. [3] and Herrault et al. [4] require elaborate techniques for fabrication of their stator-rotor
subcomponents and high rotation speeds for efficient energy harvesting. A device with simpler
structure design and ease of application may be needed to extract energy from fluid motion for
microsensor and communications applications.
Installations with miniaturized pipe-line systems may provide an alterntive for harvesting small
scale water flow energy. Sanchez-Sanz et al. [5] assessed the feasibility of using the unsteady
forces generated by the Kármán street around a micro-prism in the laminar flow regime for energy
harvesting. They presented design guidelines for their devices, but fabrication and demonstration
of the proposed device are not shown in their work. Allen and Smits [6] used a piezoelectric
membrane placed behind the Kármán vortex street formed behind a bluff body to harvest energy
from fluid motion. They examined the response of the membrane to vortex shedding. The power
output of the membrane is not presented. Taylor et al. [7] developed an eel structure of
piezoelectric polymer to convert mechanical flow energy to electrical power. They have focused
on characterization and optimization of the individual subsystems of the eel system with a
generation and storage units in a wave tank. Design and deployment of the eel system need
16
(Fig. 1(e)). Thus, by placing the energy harvester in a flow source, the oscillating movement of
the diaphragm with the cantilever piezoelectric film attached to it makes the energy harvesting
possible.
Fig. 2. (a) An assembled energy harvester. (b) Components of the energy harvester..
2. Methodology
2.1. Operational principle
A piezoelectric energy harvester considered in this investigation is shown in Fig. 2(a). Fig. 2(b) is
an exploded view of the energy harvester. The dimensions of the energy harvester are indicated in
Fig. 2(b). It consists of a flow channel, a bluff body, a polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) diaphragm
bonded to the channel, and a piezoelectric film attached to the PDMS diaphragm through a bulge
made of acrylic blocks. Flow past a bluff body creates an unstable wake in the form of alternating
vortices and induces periodic pressure variation [10]. The frequency at which the vortices are shed
from the bluff body is given by the Strouhal number, St,  U/St  [11], where  is the
frequency of oscillating flow,  is the characteristic length, and U is the free-stream velocity.
Vortex shedding from a circular cylinder immersed in a steady flow occurs in the range
72 10Re10  , where Re is the Reynolds number, with an average Strouhal number
21.02/ Ud  [12]. For a trapezoidal bluff body, the Strouhal number is given as
 UH /St 1 [13], where 1H is the height of the front side of the trapezoidal cylinder. The
front height 1H and rear height 2H of the trapezoidal cylinder are denoted in Fig. 2(a).
The piezoelectric film (LDT0-028K/L, Measurement Specialties, Inc., US) is a laminate including a
polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) film, two silver electrode layers and a polyester (PE) layer. The
PDMS flexible diaphragm has a thickness of 200 μm. The electrode layers with a thickness of 28
18
Fig. 4. A photo of the experimental setup.
3. Results
The experimental results are shown in Fig. 5. Fig. 5(a) shows the pressure history in the flow
channel behind the bluff body, where the pressure oscillates with an amplitude of nearly 0.3 kPa
and a frequency of 52 Hz. The measured deflection history of the free end of the piezoelectric
film is shown in Fig. 5(b). The film oscillates with an amplitude of about 20 μm. The
measured open circuit voltage generated by the piezoelectric film is shown in Fig. 5(c). The
output peak-to-peak voltage is nearly 120 ppmV . The results shown in Figs. 5(a-c) are typical of
those obtained over 20 seconds of measurements. Figs. 5(d-f) are the power spectral density
corresponding to Figs. 5(a-c), respectively, but are based on all 20 seconds of measurements. Fast
Fourier transform is used to compute the power spectral density. It can be seen from Figs. 5(d-f)
that there is one obvious peak value of 52 Hz, caused by the pressure fluctuation in the flow channel.
The low-frequency noise, below 20 Hz, observed in Figs. 5(d-f) can be attributed to the fact that
flows in the experimental setup are always contaminated by ambient noise sources, and the
geometry of the bluff body and the walls of the flow channel are not perfectly symmetric and
smooth.
The average free-stream velocity U measured in the experiments is 1.083 m/sec. The Reynolds
number Re of the flow can be determined by  /Re hDU , where  is the dynamic viscosity
of the water, 310002.1  secPa , and hD is the hydraulic diameter, which is 15.17 mm for the
flow channel considered. The calculated Re is 41064.1  , which is turbulent. The frequency of
the pressure fluctuation is nearly 52 Hz (Fig. 5(d)), which is the rate at which the vortices are shed
20
A matched load can be connected to the device to evaluate the power output of the device. The
internal electrical resistance of the device is measured by a LCR meter (WK 4235, Wayne Kerr
Electronics, Ltd., UK). The instantaneous power can be expressed as RVP /)
~
2( 2 , where R is
the resistance value of the matched load and V
~
is the root-mean-square value of the voltage drop
across the matched load. By connecting the matched load of 655 k to the device and detecting
the voltage drop across the matched load, 14.89 rmsmV , the instantaneous power is determined as
0.7 nW .
4. Discussions
The output power of the device is relatively low, given the structure design of the flow channel, the
bluff body and the cantilever piezoelectric film. In order to obtain a higher output power of the
piezoelectric energy harvester, the dimensions and structure of the device can be optimized, and a
piezoelectric material with higher piezoelectric constants can be adopted. In this investigation, the
device is not operated at its resonance frequency. Most energy harvesting device based on
piezoelectric effects have focused on single-frequency ambient energy, i.e. resonance-based energy
harvesting [16]. The resonance frequency of the energy harvesting device can be tailored to the
shedding frequency of the Kármán vortex street in order to increase the output power of the device.
For random and broadband ambient flow sources, such a device may not be robust. A structure
with multiple resonant frequencies may also be considered for energy harvesting from random
vibrations with multiple resonant peaks, for example a segmented composite beam with embedded
piezoelectric layers [17].
In order to generate the pressure fluctuation of the Kármán vortex street in the channel, a flow
source assisted by gravity is used to force tap water into the flow channel in the laboratory
environment. Energy can be harvested from pipe flows, blood flow in arteries [18,19], or air flow
in tire cavities. The proposed device can be deployed on slopes to provide electricity for wireless
sensor networks for detection of landslides. Landslides are usually preceded by heavy rainfalls,
and the device can harvest the energy of the water flow along slopes due to rainfall. Energy
harvesting from regular, periodic shedding can be integrated into tire pressure monitoring systems
to harness the energy of air flow in tire cavities, or self-powering implantable and wireless devices
in human bodies to convert the hydraulic energy of flow of body fluid.
References
[1] REN21, Renewables 2010 Global Status Report, 2010, pp. 15-16.
[2] D. Krähenbühl, C. Zwyssig, H. Weser, J.W. Kolar, Theoretical and experimental results
of a mesoscale electric power generation system from pressurized gas flow, Journal of
Micromechanics and Microengineering 19, 2009, 094009.
22
[19]Z.L. Wang, J. Song, Piezoelectric nanogenerators based on zinc oxide nanowire arrays, Science
312, 2006, pp. 242-246.
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王東安 計畫編號：99-2221-E-005-075- 
計畫名稱：基於渦漩誘發振動的壓電式能量收集器的設計、製作與特性分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 2 2 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 20%  
博士生 1 1 50%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
1. 學術成就 
•討在不同幾何形狀之鈍體及其排列方式，對卡爾曼旋渦道所產生之壓力振幅的影響，並
提出兩個鈍體以一前一後直列的方式排列時，可在其後約一個特徵長度的位置獲得最大振
幅之壓力變化。 
•作此發電機的原型以驗證卡爾曼旋渦道所產生之作用力可驅動壓電薄膜振動並產生電
能，當薄膜下方流道中之壓力以 0.3 kPa 的振幅及 52 Hz 的頻率振動時，此原型發電機能
提供 120 毫伏的峰對峰開路電壓，瞬間輸出功率為 0.7 nW。 
 
2. 技術創新 
此研究發展一個新的適用於提供微小遠距感測器之電源的能量收集器。此新的能量收集方
式 
「利用卡爾曼旋渦道產生之作用力，振動壓電薄膜，並在壓電薄膜的電極上產生電荷，藉
此產生電能」，代表新技術的創新與進展。研究成果將增進對渦漩誘發振動所形成的流場
壓力變化及其驅動壓電薄膜振動以收集能量的了解。此研究成果已衍生出兩個專利案的申
請。 
- 能量產生器(中華民國專利審查中) 
- 可提升動能的能量產生器(中華民國專利審查中) 
 
