 I
中文摘要 
人工髖臼杯的鬆脫是目前無骨水泥式全人工髖關節置換手術術後最常見的
失敗原因之一。文獻指出髖臼杯的鬆脫與否和骨盆的強度有密切的關係，但對於
骨盆不同的骨質強度對髖臼杯穩定度的影響仍不十分清楚。本研究利用有限元素
法建立三維的骨盆和髖臼杯組件模型，來探討五種不同骨質疏鬆程度的骨盆（骨
盆五種不同程度衰減的彈性係數）對人工髖臼杯的穩定度影響，並利用髖臼杯和
髖臼窩介面上最大的位移量以及穩定的百分比例作為評估髖臼杯穩定度的指
標。模擬結果發現，骨質強度確實會對髖臼杯造成影響，彈性係數越高的骨盆則
髖臼杯穩定度也就越高，並且發現骨質彈性係數對髖臼杯的影響為非線性的特
性。 
 
關鍵字：有限元素法、人工髖臼杯、初始穩定度、骨質強度 
 
 
 
Abstract 
One of the major causes of loosening of cementless acetabular cup implants is 
insufficient initial stability. This study used three-dimensional finite element models 
of the pelvis and acetabular components to investigate the effects of the bone quality 
and friction coefficient of the acetabular cup on the initial stability under normal 
walking. A commercially available hemispherical acetabular cup with five screw 
holes was used as the target model. The elastic modulus of the pelvis and the friction 
coefficient of the cup were systematically varied to assess the initial stability of the 
acetabular cup. The simulations showed that changes in the pelvic elastic modulus 
have a non-linear effect on the initial stability of acetabular cup. 
 
Keywords: Finite element methods, acetabular cup, initial stability, bone quality 
 1
Introduction 
One of the common failure modes of the cementless acetabular cup implant is 
loosening of the metal cup, which is mostly due to insufficient initial stability after 
implanting the cup into the acetabulum [1]. A porous-coated hemispherical titanium 
cup (such as the Harris-Galante acetabular component) inserted with so-called 
line-to-line fixation and secured with several screws is one of the most widely used 
approaches [2]. Previous studies have shown that bone quality [3] and the implant 
surface [4] also affect the initial stability of implant, but these effects have not been 
quantified. This study used finite element simulations to evaluate the bone quality of 
the pelvis on the initial stability of the acetabular cup under normal walking. 
 
 
 
Material and Methods  
Three-dimensional finite element model of the pelvis and acetabular components
 Three-dimensional finite element model of pelvis was developed from the CT 
images of a right male pelvic bone. The commercially available total hip acetabular 
components, which consisted of a ceramic femoral head, a polyethylene liner, and a 
titanium acetabular cup with five screw holes, were implanted with 45 degrees of 
abduction and 15 degrees of anteversion. (Fig. 1). The cup–liner and liner–head 
interfaces were assumed to be bonded. The material properties were listed in Table 
1.Nodes at the sacroiliac joint and the pubic symphysis were fixed in all degrees of 
freedom as the boundary condition. The loading condition was simulate the one leg 
stance stage of gait, and force size and direction were adopted from Bergmann’s study) 
were used to simulate complete normal walking in this study [5] (Fig. 2). All five 
loading conditions were individually applied at the center of the femoral head (Fig. 1). 
The finite element analyses were performed using the ANSYS (Swanson Analysis, 
Canonsburg, PA, USA) finite element package.  
 
Bone quality    
The effect of bone quality on the initial stability of the acetabular cup was 
assessed by uniformly reducing the elastic modulus of the pelvis (cortical shell, 
subchondral bone, and cancellous bone) in 10% increments from 100% to 50% 
(referred to here as bone qualities from 100% to 50%, respectively, where the 100% 
model contained bone with the normal elastic modulus; Table 1).  
 
 3
can occur into the implant surface) 
 
 
 
Results and Discussion 
Relative micromotions for different numbers of screws under the model with 
normal bone quality (Fig. 3). The peak micromotion and stable region showed a 
non-linear increase and decrease as the elastic modulus of pelvis decreased, 
respectively (Fig. 4). When the bone property decreased from 100% to 90%, a 10% 
decreasing, the peak micromotion increased by only 10.8%, while the bone property 
decreased from 60% to 50%, a 10% decreasing also, the peak micromotion increased 
by 19.7%. This indicated the importance of bone quality and the high risk of cup 
stability when using screw to secure cup on a pelvis with poor bone quality. Under 
NW (17%), fixing the cup with three screws while excluding subchondral bone 
resulted in a 62.9% increase in the peak micromotion and a 31.4% decrease in the 
stable region compared with the model with subchondral bone. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Relative micromotions for different numbers of screws under the model with 
normal bone quality. The region within the dot line of the middle three rows was the 
stable region. (left image shows the view orientation) 
 
