 2
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                 日期：97 年 8 月 18 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：快速聽閾值聽力計的研製與應用 
計畫主持人：廖文輝、王世仁 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-075 -001 -MY2 學門領域：醫學工程 
技術/創作名稱  新型聽力篩檢聽力計 
發明人/創作人 廖文輝、王世仁、楊順聰 
中文：準備申請專利，請 准予暫不揭露 
 
 
（100~500 字） 
技術說明 英文： 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
 
技術特點 
 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 4
newly developed audiometer is quite 
cost-effective and can be easily operated. 
The threshold dB values obtained by the 
audiometer developed in a conference room 
were comparable to the results of a clinical 
audiometer in a soundproof room. The 
audiometer developed could therefore be 
useful in monitoring progressive hearing 
change in a home care setting.  
Keywords：Unidentified hearing 
impairment、hearing screening. 
 
二、 計畫緣由及目的  
Hearing impairment is one of the most 
common disorders in children1-2.Children with 
hearing impairment who do not receive the 
appropriate intervention could experience a 
delay the acquisition of speech and language 
skills3-4. Therefore, early identification of 
hearing impairment in infants and young 
children is highly recommended5. However, 
the hearing impairment is difficult to be 
monitored due to the limited availability of 
test equipments and trained specialists in 
many developing countries1. Even in the 
United States, pediatricians were reported to 
neither recheck nor refer more than half of the 
children who failed hearing screening 6. 
Therefore, it is necessary to develop a 
home-care audiometer that parents or school 
nurses can use to routinely monitor the 
hearing level for school-aged children. The 
aim of this research was to develop a 
home-care audiometer that is cost-effective 
and does not need to be operated by trained 
staff. 
Material and method：Hardware 
The three major hardware components of 
the audiometer included a computer (S6F, 
ASUS notebook, Taiwan), an external sound 
blaster (iVoiceII), and a headphone (ATH-T3) 
The audiometer was configured as shown in 
Figure 1. 
Software 
The graphical programming tool 
LabVIEW 7.1 (National Instruments, Austin, 
TX, USA) was utilized to develop the hearing 
auditing program.As indicated in Figure 2.   
Participants 
Thirty sixth grade children, 17 girls and 13 
boys, from the same class in Taipei Tien-Mu 
Elementary School participated in the study.  
The trial was approved by the Institutional 
Review Board of Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital. The informed consent was obtained 
and forms were signed by the pupils’ parents. 
  
三、 討論與成果 
Thirty students underwent hearing 
threshold screening. Most of the threshold dB 
values obtained by the audiometer in a 
conference room (55 ears, 93.2%) were 
significantly greater than those obtained by 
the clinical audiometer in a soundproof room.  
The difference was 2.20±3.50 dB (mean±
standard deviation).  A 10 dB difference was 
only shown in three ears (5.1%).  The other 
56 ears (94.9%) had a difference within 5dB.  
Figure 3 showed the frequency percentage of 
the threshold difference between these two 
audiometers. The nonparametric correlation 
between the two measurements by utilizing 
developed audiometer in a quiet conference 
room and the clinical audiometer in a 
soundproof room was 0.861, which was 
significant at the 0.01 level.  Furthermore, 
the intraclass correlation coefficient of these 
two measurements was 0.929.  The 95% 
confidence interval was between 0.881 and 
0.958.  
Figure 1  Hardware components of the developed audiometer 
