 2
values. Following the HDTV color standard 
(ITU-R BT. 709), we can derive the 
tri-stimulus values from RGB signals. The 
color conversion can be designed so that the 
N driving signals produce the color as close 
to the derived tri-stimulus values as possible. 
If an object color is captured with a 
multi-spectral camera, it is possible to design 
the color conversion so that the spectral 
properties of reproduced image are close to 
the original object for avoiding observer 
metamerism [6-8]. 
This paper studies the color signal 
transformation from the HDTV to a 
multi-primary display so that high saturation 
advantage of the multi-primary display can 
be taken and preferred color appearance is 
shown. Fig. 1 shows a typical workflow of 
the color signal transformation, in which the 
four-primary display with red, yellowish 
green, green, and blue primaries is taken as 
an example. In the workflow, a color gamut 
mapping algorithm (GMA) is applied to 
preserving color hue [9-11]. HDTV signal 
vector (rs,gs,bs) is first transformed to the 
tri-stimulus vector (Xs,Ys,Zs) with the forward 
model of HDTV. As CIELAB is a uniform 
color space that is more suitable for GMA, 
the vector (Xs,Ys,Zs) is transformed to the 
color coordinates vector in CIELAB, 
(L*s,a*s,b*s). After applying GMA, we have 
the target color coordinates vector in 
CIELAB, (L*t,a*t,b*t), which is to be shown 
by the four-primary display. For obtaining 
the red, yellow-green, green, and blue signal 
vector, (ro,gyo,go,bo), for the four-primary 
display, the vector (L*t,a*t,b*t) is 
transformed back to the target tri-stimulus 
vector (Xt,Yt,Zt) and then transformed to the 
vector (ro,gyo,go,bo) through the backward 
model of the four-primary display. As the 
workflow is complicated, it is not suitable for 
real time signal processing. It is found that 
the relation of the vectors (rs,gs,bs) and 
(ro,gyo,go,bo) is highly nonlinear. A 
multi-dimensional lookup table (MLUT) that 
directly relates the vector (rs,gs,bs) to the 
vector (ro,gyo,go,bo) can also be used for the 
color signal transformation. A MLUT 
comprises sampled grid points in (rs,gs,bs) 
vector space. The signals that are not 
sampled can be transformed by interpolation. 
However, the use of MLUT suffers from the 
discontinuity of output signals unless grid 
points are densely sampled [12]. Ref. [12] 
also reported that the use of an artificial 
neural network (ANN) to approximate a 
MLUT has the advantages of lower cost and 
avoiding the discontinuity. As an ANN is 
able to describe a highly nonlinear relation 
between input and output signals, Ref.[13] 
has reported the use of an ANN for 
transforming the signals of a three-primary 
display to the other three-primary display. In 
this paper, we use an ANN for the color 
signal transformation from the HDTV to a 
four-primary display. The proper GMA and 
the method for training the ANN are studied. 
 
三、結果與討論 
 
The chromaticity triangle of HDTV and 
the chromaticity quadrilateral of the 
considered four-primary display are shown in 
Fig. 2, where D65 white point for the two 
displays is also shown. The primary color 
coordinates for the four-primary display are 
(x, y)= (0.6872, 0.3127), (0.3471, 0.6367), 
(0.1288, 0.6820), and (0.1416, 0.0423) for 
red, yellowish green, green, and blue 
primaries, respectively. Note that the green 
primary of HDTV is yellowish green in fact. 
We can see that the chromaticity triangle is 
enclosed by the chromaticity quadrilateral so 
that the four-primary display is able to show 
the images of higher saturation and more 
colorfulness than the display specified by 
HDTV. 
The input signals of red, yellowish green, 
green, and blue primaries are taken as r, yg, g, 
and b, where the signals are normalized as 0
≦r, gy, g, and b ≦1. The normalized output 
luminance of red, green, and blue primaries 
can be respectively described by the tonal 
response curves (TRCs) RL(r), GYL(gy), GL(g), 
and BL(b), which are the functions of the 
normalized input signals. 0≦RL(r), GYL(gy), 
GL(g), and BL(b) ≦ 1. A TRC can be 
described with a gamma function. Taking red 
 4
into Eq.(1). The training procedure repeats 
until the average error of training samples 
cannot be further reduced, in which the 
average error is the average color difference 
(CIEDE2000) of target colors and ANN 
output colors. It requires about 15,000 
iterations to complete the training. We find 
that the use of more hidden layers and 
neurons in a hidden layer does not 
appreciably reduce the average error because 
the increase of the number of network 
parameters complicates the optimization of 
the ANN. 
Following the methods described above, 
we have the average color differences 1.26 
and 1.30 for the training samples and the test 
samples, respectively. Although the average 
color differences are low, it is found that the 
average color differences of yellow and gray 
ramps are larger. Fig. 7 shows the average 
color difference of target colors and ANN 
output colors for selected color ramps and 
gray ramp, in which the results are indicated 
as uniformly training method to tell from the 
results obtained by the training method 
shown later. Fig. 8 shows selected target 
color ramps and the corresponding ANN 
output color ramps projected to the a*b* 
plane in CIELAB color space. We can see 
that the yellow ramp fits worse than the other 
color ramps. 
From the experience of our memories, 
we can memorize something by practicing 
more times. The same experience can be 
applied to reduce the average color 
differences of yellow and gray ramps. We 
can significantly reduce the average color 
differences of the two ramps by further 
training the ANN with the samples of yellow 
and gray ramps. However, it is found that the 
average color differences of the other color 
ramps significantly increase after the further 
training. Thus the use of a proper training 
strategy is necessarily. We propose the 
progressive non-uniformly training (PNUT) 
method to reduce the average color 
differences of yellow and gray ramps while 
the average color differences of the other 
color ramps do not appreciably increase. We 
select a set of samples form the 4096 training 
samples for enhanced training, which are 15 
yellow ramp samples and 15 gray ramp 
samples in the 4096 training samples. The 
network parameters obtained by the 
uniformly training method are taken as the 
initial network parameters for the PNUT 
method. The PNUT method includes a 
number of training rounds. For the first 
training round, the 15+15+4096= 4126 
training samples, which include the yellow 
and gray ramp samples and 4096 training 
samples, are used for training. After the first 
training round, the average color differences 
of the yellow and gray ramps decrease but 
the other color ramps slightly increase. For 
the second training round, we keep the 4126 
training samples and add the color ramp 
samples with the maximum average color 
difference. The initial network parameters 
obtained by the first round is taken as the 
initial network parameters of the second 
round. The same procedures are applied to 
the following training rounds. After 5 
training rounds, the average color differences 
of the training samples and the test samples 
are 1.09 and 1.43, respectively. The average 
color difference of the training samples is 
reduced compared with the results using 
uniformly training method, but the average 
color difference of the test samples is 
increased. The average color differences of 
color ramps and gray ramp after 5 training 
rounds are also shown in Fig. 7. We can see 
that yellow and gray ramps fit better at the 
expense of increasing the color differences of 
the other color ramps. The average color 
differences of all the ramps are less than 1.6 
using the PNUT method. Fig. 9 shows the 
target color ramps and the corresponding 
ANN output color ramps after 5 training 
rounds. Comparing Fig. 9 with Fig. 8, we can 
see that the compromised color ramps using 
the PNUT method fit the corresponding 
target color ramps better than the color ramps 
using uniformly training method. 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
 
The color signal transformation from the 
 6
[15] S. Wen,” Design of relative primary 
luminances for four-primary displays,” 
Displays, 26, 171-176 (2005). 
[16] M. Mahy,” Calculation of color gamuts 
based on the Neugebauer model,” Col Res. 
Appl., 22, 365-374 (1997). 
[17] T. Ajito, K. Ohsawa, T. Obi, M. 
Yamaguchi, and N. Ohyama,” Color 
conversion method for multiprimary 
display using matrix switching,” Opt. Rev., 
8, 191-197 (2001). 
 
六、圖表 
 
 
 
Fig. 1: A typical workflow of the color signal 
transformation. 
 
Fig. 2: The chromaticity triangle of HDTV and the 
chromaticity quadrilateral of the four-primary 
display considered in this paper, where the D65 
white point is also shown. 
 
Fig. 3: Color gamut of the HDTV, in which primary 
loci are also shown. 
 
 
Fig. 4: Color gamut of the four-primary display 
considered in this paper, in which primary loci are 
also shown. 
 
 
Fig. 5: A schematic diagram of LLIN GMA, in which 
the cross sections of the gamut boundaries at 0 ° hue 
angle for the HDTV and four-primary display are 
shown for example. 
