 i
TABLE OF CONTENTS   
TABLE OF CONTENTS  i 
LIST OF TABLE  ii 
LIST OF FIGURES  iii 
ABSTRACT (CHINESE)  iv 
ABSTRACT (ENGLISH)  v 
CHAPTER 1 INTRODUCTION  1 
CHAPTER 2 LITERATURE REVIEWS  4 
CHAPTER 3 METHOD  6 
3.1 Filtration Unit  6 
3.2 Experimental Setup  7 
3.3 Numerical Method  9 
CHAPTER 4 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  13 
4.1  Performance  of  Filter  and  Measurement  of  Nanoparticle 
Concentration  13 
4.2 Effect of Reynolds Number on Electrostatic Loss  15 
4.3 Correlation of Single Fiber Efficiency  18 
4.4 Overall Correlation 19 
4.5 Conclusions 21 
4.6 Evaluation  21 
REFERENCES  23 
 iii
LIST OF FIGURES 
FIG. 3.1  Sketch of the filtration unit.                              6 
FIG. 3.2  Schematic diagram of experimental setup.        8 
FIG. 4.1 Determination of the equivalent fiber diameter for the Al-Au-Al composite 
grid from the experimentally measured penetration for uncharged particles.  14 
FIG. 4.2  Comparison between penetration through 6 Aluminum grids for the 
“neutral” and “neutral+charged” test aerosols.        15 
FIG. 4.3  Influence of applied voltage on electrostatic loss at different Reynolds 
numbers.                                                    17 
FIG. 4.4  Electrostatic loss as a function of electrical mobility of particles for 
different Reynolds numbers at applied voltage of 3.6 kV.      17 
FIG. 4.5  Effect of Reynolds number on the maximum number of charges and 
critical radial outlet location for applied voltages of 3.2 kV.         18 
FIG. 4.6  Correlation between the single fiber efficiency for the image force 
mechanism and the image force number. Al = 6 aluminum grids; CG = 2 Al-Au-Al 
composite grids.                                        19 
FIG. 4.7 Comparison between experimental penetration and that calculated results for 
the aluminum grids.                               20 
 
 v
 
ABSTRACT 
This research has tested the collection efficiency of the nanoparticles using the fibers 
by attraction and deposition at various conditions. This study also used a numerical 
method to calculate the electrostatic loss of charged nanoparticles in a corona charger 
by simulating the flow field, electric field, particle charge and the particle trajectory at 
various conditions. The results showed that the electrostatic loss increased with 
increasing applied voltage and electrical mobility of particles; and decreased with 
particle size. It has been also shown that an increase in the Reynolds number can 
reduce the electrostatic loss of nanoparticles in the charger. In addition, a 
laboratory-scale filter has been designed and fabricated. A large number of 
experimental measurements of filtration efficiency has been carried out, varying the 
particle size, the number and polarity of charges on the particles, the geometric 
characterisitics of the filter media, and the fiber Reynolds number. Finally, a 
correlation of practical use has been established, which relates particle penetration 
with the so-called screen parameter, the Peclet number and the total charge on the 
particles. 
Keywords: Nanoparticle, Filter, Filtration efficiency. 
 
 
 
2 
 
fraction of these charged nanoparticles are electrostatically deposited onto the wall, 
thereby decreasing the extrinsic charging efficiency. Therefore, it is important to 
reduce as much as possible the electrostatic loss in order to guarantee a high output of 
charged nanoparticles. 
Furthermore, experimental determination of the single fiber efficiency has been 
tested as a function of: particle size, particle charge, wire screen geometry, and 
Reynolds number. The nanoparticle concentration through the filter under various 
operation parameters will also be measured. Finally, an empirical correlation of 
practical use between the aforementioned variables has been established. 
 
5 
unipolar chargers. For example, previous studies showed that higher ion 
concentrations are generated to obtain more charged nanoparticles as the corona 
voltage is increased; however, a large fraction of these charged nanoparticles are 
electrostatically deposited onto the wall, thereby decreasing the extrinsic charging 
efficiency (Hernandez-Sierra et al. 2003; Alonso et al. 2006; Alguacil and Alonso 
2006; Tsai et al. 2010). Therefore, it is important to reduce as much as possible the 
electrostatic loss in order to guarantee a high output of charged nanoparticles.  
This investigation attempts to determine the electrostatic loss of nanoparticles in 
the corona needle charger using numerical methods, which are used to calculate the 
flow field, the electric field, the particle charge and the particle trajectory. The 
evolution of the number of charges per particle along the particle trajectories by 
diffusion and field charging processes has also been investigated. Additionally, 
experimental determination of the single fiber efficiency has been tested as a function 
of: particle size, particle charge, wire screen geometry, and Reynolds number. The 
nanoparticle concentration through the filter under various operation parameters has 
been measured. Finally, an empirical correlation of practical use between the 
aforementioned variables has been established.   
 
7 
 
3.2 Experimental Setup  
The experimental setup for the measurement of single fiber efficiencies is 
shown in Fig. 3.2. An evaporation-condensation polydisperse aerosol is generated 
from a solid sample (NaCl has been used in most of the experiments, although a few 
tests were run with ZnCl2 and Ag). The polydisperse aerosol is electrically charged in 
a charger. A differential mobility analyzer is used to generate a continuous stream of 
monodisperse positively charged particles of known size. These particles are then 
neutralized in another charger and passed through an electrostatic precipitator to 
remove the charged fraction. Preliminary experiments using an electrometer placed at 
the ESP outlet have shown that a voltage of about 1700 V is enough to remove the 
largest particles that will be used in the filtration experiments; the same ESP voltage 
will be used even for the experiments with smaller particles. The neutral 
monodisperse particles leaving electrostatic precipitator are then charged in a direct 
corona charger, the performance evaluation of which was the main subject of our 
former joint project and which has been discussed in detail in Tsai et al. (2010). The 
aerosol leaving the corona charger contains neutral particles as well as particles 
carrying 1, 2, 3, …, n charges, the maximum number of charges n being dependent on 
the particle size (Alguacil and Alonso, 2006). The aerosol flow rate entering the filter 
efficiency measuring unit could be varied by using an additional stream of clean dry 
air. For the efficiency measurement, the test aerosol was alternatively passed through 
either the filter or the dummy unit. Penetration through the wire screens, i.e. the 
fraction of particles that pass through them without being deposited, could then be 
determined from comparison of the concentrations measured at the outlet of both units. 
Particle number concentrations were measured with a condensation particle counter. 
9 
TABLE 3.1 Characteristics of the wire screens. 
Material Aluminum Stainless steel Composite 
screen 
Fibre diameter, fd  (μm) 100 66 52 
Thickness, h (μm) 260 120 524 
Solid volume fraction, vsss hρρα /= ( - ) 0.303 0.318 0.32 
Screen parameter, )1(/4 απα −= fdhS ( - ) 1.437 1.079 6.05 
 
With the experimentally measured values of penetration P, the single fiber 
efficiency can be calculated from the expression 
 
 (3.1) 
 
where N is the number of screens, S the so called screen parameter (a known function 
of the geometric characteristics of the screen, explained in Table 3.1), and η the single 
fiber efficiency. 
 
3.3 Numerical Method    
The charger used in the study consists of an inner electrode ended in a sharp 
point, coaxial with an outer electrode which has a conical shape. The radii of the inlet 
and outlet conical sections are 10 mm and 1.75 mm, respectively. The height of the 
cone is 20 mm, and the radius of the corona needle electrode is 1.5 mm. The radial 
distance between the electrode tip and the inner wall of the outlet tube is 1.75 mm. 
The corona needle electrode head is connected to an adjustable DC high voltage 
11 
Where V  is the electric potential, E  the electric field strength, q  the space 
charge density, D the ion diffusion coefficient, Z  the electrical mobility of the ions, 
and 0ε  is the vacuum permittivity. The space charge density can be expressed as the 
ion concentration, iN , multiplied by the elementary unit of charge, e.  
After the flow and electric fields have been obtained, the particle motion 
equation was integrated using the fourth order Runge-Kutta method to yield the 
particle trajectories over the domain of interest. Particle motion is governed by the 
following equation: 
 
( ) DEpe
p
p
pd
p FFUU
Cm
D
C
dt
Ud ++−=
8
Re
πμ
 (3.7) 
  
where Cd is the empirical drag coefficient, Rep the particle Reynolds number, Dp the 
particle diameter, EF  and DF the external force, e the elementary unit of charge, n 
the number of charges on the particle, mp the particle mass, C the Cunningham 
correction factor, and pU  is the particle velocity. The number of charges acquired by 
the particles, through the combined mechanisms of diffusion and field charging, was 
calculated along the particle trajectory using the expressions (Hinds 1999). If the 
particle concentration and velocity profiles are assumed to be uniform at the inlet of 
the charger, and particles are assumed to be collected when they hit the wall, then the 
electrostatic loss, L, for various Reynolds numbers based on the inlet of charger, Re, 
can be calculated as: 
 
13 
CHAPTER 4 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
4.1 Performance of Filter and Measurement of Nanoparticle Concentration 
We attempted to estimate a sort of effective fiber diameter for the Al-Au-Al 
composite grid from the known values of fiber diameter and number of wires per unit 
area for each of the separate screens. The thus estimated mean fiber diameter, when 
inserted into the Cheng-Yeh equations yielded predictions notably at odds with the 
experimentally measured penetrations for uncharged particles. In view of these results, 
it was decided to take for the value of the effective fiber diameter the one which best 
fitted the experimental measurements, and which was obtained as follows.  
 
     (4.1) 
 (4.2) 
 (4.3) 
 
In the above equations, α is the solid volume fraction of the screen, h its thickness, n 
the number of screens, u the mean velocity of the flow approaching the screen, and D 
the particle diffusion coefficient; the latter was determined from the particle electric 
mobility Z. Figure 4.1 for the penetration of uncharged particles through two 
composite grids in series at the four different aerosol flow rates employed in the 
experiments, we have obtained a value of 51.9 μm for the effective fiber diameter. In 
order to illustrate the effect of the polarization forces, model experiments were carried 
15 
0 100 200 300 400 500
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
 
 
pe
ne
tra
tio
n 
 ( 
- )
Pe  ( - )
 neutral
 neutral + charged
 
Fig.4.2 Comparison between penetration through 6 Aluminum grids for the “neutral” 
and “neutral+charged” test aerosols.  
 
4.2 Effect of Reynolds Number on Electrostatic Loss 
Fig. 4.3 shows the electrostatic loss as a function of particle diameter for two 
different values of Reynolds number  ( ν−= /)RR(uRe 210 ; 0u : the air velocity at 
the charger inlet; ν : the air kinematic viscosity) and applied voltage. The results 
indicate that smaller Reynolds number and larger applied voltage lead to higher 
electrostatic loss. Also, the electrostatic loss of nanoparticles decreases as the particle 
diameter increases. In general, higher electrical migration velocity and higher mean 
aerosol residence time result in higher electrostatic losses. Fig. 4.4 shows the 
electrostatic loss of nanoparticles as a function of electrical mobility of 
17 
 
Fig. 4.3 Influence of applied voltage on electrostatic loss at different Reynolds 
numbers. 
 
Fig. 4.4 Electrostatic loss as a function of electrical mobility of particles for different 
Reynolds numbers at applied voltage of 3.6 kV. 
19 
10-7 10-6 10-5 10-4
10-3
10-2
10-1
 
 
η IM
  (
 - 
)
KIM  ( - )
 screen-Q(lpm)
 Al-0.5
 Al-1.5
 Al-2
 Al-4
 Al-6
 Al-8
 CG-2
 CG-4
 CG-6
 CG-8
ηIM = 9.1 K
0.47
IM
 
Fig. 4.6 Correlation between the single fiber efficiency for the image force 
mechanism and the image force number. Al = 6 aluminum grids; CG = 2 Al-Au-Al 
composite grids; the numbers indicate the aerosol flow rate through the grids in l/min. 
 
4.4. Overall Correlation 
The overall correlation obtained, relating particle penetration with Peclet 
number, fiber diameter and number of charges on the particle, is 
 
   (4.5) 
 
where S is the screen parameter, Pe the Peclet number, p the number of charges on the 
21 
 
4.5 Conclusions 
In this work, a numerical method was used to calculate the electrostatic loss of 
charged nanoparticles in a corona needle charger by simulating the flow field, electric 
field, particle charge and the particle trajectory at various applied voltages, Reynolds 
numbers and particle diameters. The results indicate that the numbers of charges per 
particle by diffusion charging process is higher for larger particle, larger radial 
position and lower Reynolds number. Numerical calculations showed that the 
electrostatic loss increased with increasing applied voltage and electrical mobility of 
particles; and decreased with particle size. In addition, penetration of singly-charged 
and uncharged aerosol particles through wire screens has been measured in particle size 
range between 2.4 and 9.1 nm, and Peclet number between 15 and 4000. No systematic 
dependency of the single fiber efficiency on the fiber Reynolds number has been found 
within the range of Ref values tested in this study. In contrast, the presence of charges 
on the particles results in an improvement of the filtration efficiency over that of the 
diffusive mechanism alone, due to the additional force exerted on the charged particles 
by the charges induced on the fibers. Finally, a correlation of practical utility has been 
established. 
 
4.6 Evaluation  
The main objectives of the project have been successfully achieved. A 
laboratory-scale filter, consisting basically of a series of removable grounded wire 
screens placed within a cylindrical chamber, has been designed and fabricated. In 
addition, a large number of experimental measurements of filtration efficiency has 
been carried out, varying the particle size, the number and polarity of charges on the 
23 
REFERENCES 
Alguacil, F.J. and Alonso, M. (2006) Multiple charging of ultrafine particles in a 
corona charger. J. Aerosol Sci., 37, 875-884. 
Alonso M, Martin MI, Alguacil FJ (2006) The measurement of charging efficiencies 
and losses of aerosol nanoparticles in a corona charger. J Electrostat 64:203-214 
Alonso, M., Alguacil, F.J., Santos, J.P., Jidenko, N. and Borra, J.P. (2007) 
Deposition of ultrafine aerosol particles on wire screens by simultaneous 
diffusion and image force. J. Aerosol Sci., 38, 1230-1239. 
Alonso, M., and Alguacil, F.J. (2002) Electrostatic precipitation of ultrafine 
particles enhanced by simultaneous diffusional deposition on wire screens. J. 
Air & Waste Manage. Assoc. 52, 1342-1347. 
Alonso, M., Martin, M.I. and Alguacil, F.J. (2006) The measurement of charging 
efficiencies and losses of aerosol nanoparticles in a corona charger. J. 
Electrostatics, 64, 203-214. 
Biskos G, Reavell K, Collings N (2005) Electrostatic characterization of corona-wire 
aerosol charges. J Electrostat 63:69–82 
Biskos, G., Reavell, K. and Collings, N. (2005) Unipolar diffusion charging of 
aerosol particles in the transition regime. J. Aerosol Sci., 36, 247-265. 
Boelter, K.J. and Davidson, J.H. (1997) Ozone generation by indoor, electrostatic 
air cleaners. Aerosol Sci. Technol., 27, 689-708. 
Cereda, E., Braga, G.M., Pedretti, M., Grime, G.W., and Baldacci, A. (1996) 
Influence of the elemental composition of individual fly ash particles on the 
efficiency of the electrostatic precipitators. J. Aerosol Sci., 27, 607-619. 
Finlay, W.H. (2001) The Mechanics of Inhaled Pharmaceutical Aerosols, 
Academic Press, San Diego. 
25 
Wang, C.S. (2005) Inhaled Particles, Elsevier, Amsterdam.  
Woo K, Chen DR, Pui DYH, Wilson WE (2001) Use of continuous measurements of 
integral aerosol parameters to estimate particle surface area. Aerosol Sci 
Technol 34:57-65 
Yoo, K.H., Lee, J.S. and Oh, M.D. (1997) Charging and collection of submicron 
particles in two-stage parallel-plate electrostatic precipitators. Aerosol Sci. 
Technol., 27, 308-323. 
 
 2
important to reduce as much as possible the electrostatic loss in order to guarantee a high output of charged 
nanoparticles. 
In this exchange visit program, experimental determination of the single fiber efficiency has been tested 
as a function of: particle size, particle charge, wire screen geometry, and Reynolds number. The nanoparticle 
concentration through the filter under various operation parameters has also been measured. Finally, an 
empirical correlation of practical use between the aforementioned variables has been established. Additionally, 
this investigation has determined the electrostatic loss of nanoparticles in the corona needle charger using 
numerical methods, which were used to calculate the flow field, the electric field, the particle charge and the 
particle trajectory. The evolution of the number of charges per particle along the particle trajectories by 
diffusion and field charging processes has also been investigated. The Taiwanese and Spanish groups perform 
the measurements and numerical methods. As a matter of fact, and besides nanoparticle filter efficiency, we 
shared a common interest in other aerosol research topics, such as nanoparticle charger and aerosol 
measurement. In particular, the numerical method was used to calculate the electrostatic loss of charged 
nanoparticles in a needle charger by simulating the flow field, electric field, particle charge and the particle 
trajectory.  
 
Purpose of the exchange visit of the PI to Spain from July 10, 2011 to July 25, 2011 is:  
(a) July 10-13 ---To discuss the progress for the determination of the nanoparticle concentration through the 
filter and the filtration efficiency under various wire screen geometries and Reynolds number. 
(b) July 14-18---To discuss the measurement of the nanoparticle concentration through the filter and the 
filtration efficiency under various Peclet number, fiber diameter and number of charges on the particle. 
(c) July 19-21---To discuss the determination of the correlation of the filtration unit between the single fiber 
efficiency and Reynolds number, Peclet number, fiber diameter and number of charges on the particle. 
(d) July 22-25---To discuss the establishment of conclusions by joint article publications in international journals. 
 
 
 4
flow and electric fields, particle charging and particle trajectory. Results showed that the electrostatic loss 
decreased with increasing Reynolds number and particle size. However, it seems difficult to measure 
experimentally the influence of the number of charges per particle on the particle trajectory and location for 
various conditions. Therefore, it will be helpful if a numerical model can be developed to calculate the number 
of chargers on particles at the outlet of a needle charger. In the aspect of academic exchanges, some interesting 
results of the using of fan filter model equations to estimate the diffusional penetration of nanoparticles through 
wire screens will be tested. In additional, the effect of image force on the diffusional penetration of particles 
flowing through a circular tube will be also investigated.  
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃政雄 計畫編號：99-2923-E-264-001-MY2 
計畫名稱：奈米微粒充電之濾材紊流沉積研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
