中文摘要
最近隨著微機電、無線通訊、數位電子等技術的進步，使得我們有能力去發展具有
低成本、低功率、及多功能特性且可在短距離通訊之輕薄短小的感測器節點。這類的網
路有許多的應用範圍，可以應用在軍事、環境、健康、居家、和商用上。依據 2007 年產
業白皮書指出我們政府將以感測與辨識技術為基礎發展智慧化空間，其主要的因是它的
市場價值相當高。本計畫主要目的是實作及研究如何使用 Zigbee 技術設計用於智慧化空
間的語義感知網路。本計畫主要的工作，其一利用微控器結合 Zigbee 技術來發展具備語
義功能的無線感知器，該微控器可以用來收集感知器的訊號或控制致動器的動作，並以
XML 格式來傳送感知器的狀態；其二是用本體論技術來發展具備知識管理的閘道器建立
正規的分享機制；最後本計畫也利用排隊理論和馬爾可夫鏈來分析我們所設計的系統其
效能表現。無論如何無線語義網技術將實現智慧化空間以提高老人就地老化的生活品質
及減少健康照顧的費用。
關鍵字：無線感知器網路、本體論、語義網、排隊理論、馬爾可夫鏈、和在地老
化。
Abstract
Nowadays recent advances in micro-electro-mechanical systems, wireless communications,
and digital electronics, facilitate us to develop low-cost, low-power, multifunctional sensor
nodes which are small in size but are able to communicate in short distance. There are many
applications on this kind of network including military, environmental, health, home, and
commercial applications. According to 2007 White Paper on Taiwan Industrial Technology, our
government will develop intelligent building based on technology of sensing and identification
because its market worth is very high. The purpose of this project is to implement and research
how to use Zigbee technology to design a semantic sensor network applied in constructing an
intelligent building. This project has three main design tasks. First of all, a Tag-based wireless
sensor node is implemented by ZigBee to collect sensor’s status and transmit the status packed
by XML format. Secondly, an Ontology-based gateway will be constructed to manage
knowledge for a formal specification of a shared conceptualization. Finally, queueing networks
and Markov chains are used to evaluate the performance of our system. However, a variety of
technologies in the semantic sensor network will enable intelligent building for older adults to
age in place, improving the quality of their lives and reducing healthcare costs.
Keywords: Wireless sensor networks, ontology, semantic web, queueing networks, Markov
Chains and aging in place.
實現建構智慧化生活居住空間外，更可以逐步地朝向以人為中心的智慧生活
的優化服務，並有助於普及應用於軍事、農業、工業、商業和健康照護上。
二、系統架構
這一節將介紹我們提出的系統架構，包含閘道器、感知網路和家庭語意
網，如圖 1所示。閘道器主要是收集感知資料及提供管理介面，管理者可以
透過管理介面管理我們的系統。感知網路包含 inference box、sensor 和
actuator，sensor 會收集環境資料並傳給 inference box 進行條件判定，條件成
立時將發訊息通知 actuator 驅動裝置提供協助。舉例來說，當有一個條件為
溫度必須大於 20 度時窗戶打開。溫度 Sensor 取得溫度為 20 度時，窗戶的
actuator 將被驅動使窗戶打開。像這類的條件我們稱之為使用者的活動，是
可以被使用者自行定義的，使用者可以透過管理介面去管理各種活動，依據
個人化需求去建立各式各樣的活動。
圖 1 系統架構圖
活動、感知和驅動的資訊符合語意網的標準格式，在第四節將有更詳細
的描述，資訊傳送的流程圖如圖 2所示，Inference box、Sensor 和 actuator
會先傳送訊息跟 Gateway 註冊，讓 Gateway 知道感知環境中有那些設備，讓
使用者方便地設定活動的規則。
以設計成連接兩種不同傳輸協定的閘道器。
圖 3 Zigbee 為基礎的語意感知節點之雛型
四、家庭語意網
我們運用設定好的語意網，簡單的範例如圖 4，包含 Device、Sensor、
Location、Person 和 Activity 等，Device 包含可以被驅動的設備，如電視、
電風扇等，Sensor 包含各種感知的設備如溫度、亮度、濕度等，Location 包
括設備、人等位置，Person 包含家庭裡任一個成員，Activity 包含使用者自
行設定的活動和設備本身提供的功能。
ContextEntity
Outdoor-
activity
Person
ComputingEntity
Location
Activity
Device
Male
Indoor-
activityFemale
Sensor
Outdoor-
space
Indoor-
space
rdfs:subClassOf
Class
Mary
John
Sporting
Cooking
Sleeping
Tom
Watching-TV
Light-
sensor
Noise-
sensor
Living-room
Bedroom
Kitchen
Backyard
Garden
NS-1
LS-1
TV
PC
Individual
rdf:type
圖 4 Home Ontology
圖 6 為感測器節點資料描述範例，節點主要描述設備上基本訊息，如：節
點名稱和檢測類型等，在感測器中將所偵測到的數據送出，因此，其他節點
可以收到資料的類型並知道由哪個節點位置做傳送。
<owl:Ontology rdf:about="">
<owl:imports rdf:resource="http://www.w3.org/2003/11/swrlb"/>
<owl:imports rdf:resource="http://www.w3.org/2003/11/swrl"/>
<owl:versionInfo rdf:datatype="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string"
>Created with TopBraid Composer</owl:versionInfo>
</owl:Ontology>
<owl:Class rdf:ID="Outdoor-activity">
<rdfs:label rdf:datatype="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#string"
>Outdoor-activity</rdfs:label>
<rdfs:subClassOf>
<owl:Class rdf:ID="Activity"/>
</rdfs:subClassOf>
圖 6 感測器描述
圖 7呈現一個活動規則的範例，範例規則 1 的意思為推論 John 在從事
(engagedIn)什麼活動(Activity)？相當於圖 8的結果，John 在臥室裡睡覺。
圖 7 活動規則範例
圖 8 活動規則判斷結果
五、系統分析
我們分析系統規則判斷的效能，利用 GPSN 描述系統的狀態如圖 9所示，
包括等待感知資料、尋找相關規則、比對規則是否成立和驅動裝置等狀態，
(Sleeping locatedAt Bedroom) ^ (Bedroom contains
John) ^ (LS-1 lightlevel 'LOW') ^ (NS-1 noiselevel
'LOW')＝＞ (John engagedIn Sleeping)
(?x locatedAt ?y) ^ (?y contains ?p) ^ (?a lightlevel
'LOW') ^ (?b noiselevel 'LOW') ＝＞ (?p
engagedIn ?x)
表 2 Reward Assignment for Exaction Time of Decision Scheme
State i Reward Rate ri
Idle 0
Searching T
Binding T
Action T
六、結論
由於智慧化居住空間的重點為建構主動感知及滿足使用者的建築空
間，無線感測網路與環境感知技術的整合應用為成功關鍵。在 Ubiquitous
Home 的異質環境裡，包含消費家電的 pervasive computing 環境、監控環境
的感知網路及全球資訊網的資源等，透過語意網的技術，讓異質網路的資料
可互相存取，創造一個適合老人居住的 Ubiquitous Home。我們也將引入代
理人技術，設計居家服務代理人，此代理人主要藉由本體論技術可以提供兩
大功能：自動服務搜尋和自動服務計畫構成。而這兩項功能都會利用到服務
資料註冊資料庫，此資料庫會記錄三大類的網路服務，包括：消費性電子產
品、隨處可見的感知器、及資訊內容等。其中資訊內容主要有在網際網路上
的數位內容、手機個人資訊、及應用程式等。發展智慧化居住空間應用將可
帶動一連串電子化、資訊化、及建築技術的創新服務和應用。
References
1. [1] IEEE Standard for Medical Device Communications-physical Layer
Interface- cable Connected, IEEE Std 1073.4.1-1994, 28 Apr. 1995.
2. [2] IEEE Standard for Medical Device Communications-physical Layer
Interface- cable Connected, IEEE Std 1073.4.1, 2000 Edition, 6 Mar. 2000
3. [3] IEEE Standard for Medical Device Communications-transport Profile-IrDA
Based-cable Connected, IEEE Std 1073.3.2-2000, 14 Apr. 2000.
4. [4] J. Yao, R. Schmitz, and S. Warren, “Awearable point-of-care system for
home use that incorporates plug-and-play and wireless standards,”IEEE
Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine, Vol. 9, Issue 3,
pp.363-371, Sep. 2005.
5. [5] G. V. Zaruba, S. Basagni, and I. Chlamtac, “Bluetrees –Scatternet
Formation to Enable Bluetooth-Based Ad Hoc networks,” ICC, pp.273-277,
出席國際會議研究心得報告 
NSC 97-2221-E-252-016 
980901 
7 -8 Banff 
Markov 
Decision Processes

photographs and many other countless experiences. The term “Moblogging” was coined 
by Adam Greenfield [9]. It is a blend of the words mobile and weblogging and a blanket 
term that covers a variety of related practices. At its simplest, moblogging is merely the 
use of a phone or other mobile device to publish content to the World Wide Web 
(WWW), whether that content be text, images, media files, or some combination of the 
above.   
Traveling blogs consists of a collection of posts in form of photoblogs, videoblogs, 
map-based blogs and text-based blogs, which enable travelers to graphically and digitally 
share their traveling experiences. Travelers often gather travel notes and related data, then 
uploads the data to blog in order to preserve the memory of their travel experience. 
However, a great of time is required to aggregate and arrange the traveling data for 
designing an attractive blog. When we come back home after traveling, it is hard to 
memory where to picture and what to do. If a web-based geographic information system 
(Web-GIS) was used to blog, the traveler has to record track of journey. However, the 
records have to spend time to draw the track in blog. Moblogging concept was proposed 
and real-time publish WWW. However, the content is merely obtained from mobile 
device; the relevant content such as vehicles is not arranged to blog. Integrated relevant 
content can increase rich and colorful blog and more application will be created. 
Although we implemented automatic mobile blog system, modeling still plays a critical 
role in the development of reliable products related to the automobile and industry 
control for use in real-time environments. We model the behavior of priority messages in 
CAN networks using a simple Pico net for a Bluetooth network using a probabilistic 
model checking technique. The proposed technique can help the information processing 
system designer to evaluate system design factors such as performance and reliability. A 
probabilistic model checker called PRISM [6] is used as an automatic formal verification 
technique for the analysis of systems which exhibit stochastic behavior. We use this tool 
to analyze two examples. The first example analyzes the behavior of three priority 
messages and a gateway. The second example analyzes a Pico net consisting of a phone 
and a gateway. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces some 
related works. In Section 3 presents an overview of automatic mobile blog system. 
Sections 4 and Section 5 model CAN bus and Bluetooth, respectively. Section 6 
addresses some conclusions. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
Currently, there are several tools for using a mobile blog, a mobile phone application 
which allows the blogger to publish text, photos and video onto a personal blog, such as: 
Buzznet, Phlog, PhotoBlog, AirBlogging and TypePay. Several systems provide a 
function to publish GPS log [1]. These tools are intended to provide a simple and 
user-friendly interface for bloggers from their phone. It can be enter content and tags for 
each entry. However, the keypads on mobile phones are much smaller compared to 
regular keyboards. Moreover, this system does not support digital cameras and other 
devices in uploading data. 
PhoneBlogger [10] used a VoiceXML application to support voice converting into text 
log. Mobilog [3] presented semi-automate data entry with context relevant annotation and 
enhance multimedia blog with personalized content synthesis. Those web blogs are 
developed rapidly. But how to analyze the efficiency and probability form the mobile 
device to log information onto website and carrying various data types. The PRISM tool 
is selected modeling the Automatic Mobile Blog System. 
can obtain position information via GPS. An agent, called the automatic agent, is created 
to automatically upload this information to a web resource such as text-based blogs, 
photo album, video-based blogs and file storage etc. via 3G. An agent, called the mashup 
agent, is used to re-design the interface for various applications.  
Vehicle 
Space
GPS 
navigation
CAN CAN CAN
Storage
Bluetooth
Text-based 
blogs
Photo 
Album
Vlogs Web-GIS
Automatic Agent
File storage Web 
Resource
Digital Devices
Vehicle
Gateway
3G
Mashup Agent
Real-time 
blogs
Travel blogs
Mashup
Blogs
Diagnosis 
blogs
Elder Care 
blogs
 
Figure 2. System Architecture 
IV. MODELING PRIORITY MESSAGES FOR CAN BUS 
In this section, we model an example of a three-priority queueing system using the 
PRISM language. Modeling priority messages using the PRISM can be divided into four 
parts as shown in Fig. 3. (1) Model selection and constant values are declared. First of all, 
we declare an example is a CTMC model using the keyword of stochastic. A constant 
queue sizes is specified as N to represent the maximum number of buffers used to store 
messages. We then define a constant arrival rate to be used in the four priority message 
modules. (2) Fours message modules and one bus module are designed and denoted by 
ECU1, ECU2, ECU3, Gateway and Bus. Each message module has a queue represented 
by ECUn, where . (3) Several labels are defined after the bus module. These 
defined labels will be used to retrieve the experimental result by using the CSL 
expressions. (4) Four reward functions are defined in the last part.  
We assumed that a message consists of 130 bits and the queue length in each module 
is 10. The basic simulation time unit is 10
-6
 sec. As shown in Fig. 4, we observe the 
probability in the full queue state when the time is elapsed from 0 to 5000. All arrival 
rates for the three message modules are set to 0.005. In other words, a message will be 
generated at an interval of 200 s. No message waits in any queue before the simulation 
Figure 5 illustrates the idle probability when the polling message arrival rate in the 
Gateway is within 0.005 to 0.0002. We assume that the queue length in each module is 10, 
simulation time is 1000 units, and the arrival rate in three ECUs is 0.001. We found that 
the idle probability quickly decreases when the number of polling messages increases. 
The idle probability of the Gateway will become zero when the arrival rate is larger than 
or equal to 0.0034. Three ECUs idle probabilities will impact when the number of polling 
messages increases but the idle probability does not increase as the arrival rate becomes 
larger than 0.0026 because the number of receiving polling messages dose not increase. 
 
Figure 4. The full queue probability is observed when simulated time from 0 to 5000. 
 
Figure 5. Idle probability will decrease when polling rate generated by gateway increases. 
V. MODELING MESSAGES FOR BLUETOOTH NETWORK 
In this section, we will model a Pico net consisting two nodes: phone and gateway for 
Bluetooth network as shown in Fig. 6. For the pico net, three modules called phone, 
gateway, and pico are required. Four variables, N, phone_lambda, gateway_lambda, 
time_slot and gateway_mu, represent queue length in each module, picture generating 
rate in phone module, polling rate in gateway module, time for Bluetooth time slot, 
service rate in gateway, respectively. To synchronize among modules is implemented by 
quickly decrease when the picture generating rate increases. The gateway idle probability 
is maintained between 64% and 68%. 
 
Figure 7. Idle probability is presented for phone and gateway modules when picture 
generating rate generated increases by phone module. 
To observe a full queue at a longer simulation time, we changed the time to 10000. 
Figure 8 illustrates the full queue probability for phone and gateway modules when the 
picture generation rate is from 0.0001 to 0.002. For the phone module, downlink full 
queue probability quickly increases but uplink full queue probability quickly decreases 
when the picture generation rate increases. For the gateway module, the uplink queue 
always maintained in the full state but the downlink first quickly increases first and then 
slowly drops when the picture generation rate increases. 
 
Figure 8. Full queue probability is presented for phone and gateway modules when 
picture generating rate increases generated by phone module. 
Let the picture generation rate be fixed at 0.001 to observe the full queue impact on 
the polling rate increase in the gateway module. Figure 9 demonstrates that except for 
