 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告撰寫格式說明 
Preparation of NSC Project Reports 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-020-011 
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 9 月 30 日 
主持人：蔡循恒   國立屏東科技大學 
共同主持人：謝其昌   國立高雄第一科技大學 
共同主持人：范政文   永達技術學院 
計畫參與人員：蘇昱彰 國立屏東科技大學 
計畫參與人員：李育瑞 國立屏東科技大學 
一、前言 
 
微機電系統（Micro Electro Mechanical 
Systems，MEMS）定義為一個智慧型微小
系統，內含致動器、感測器和處理器之功
能，其中微機電系統中常含電子、電機、
光學、化學、磁學或生物等多種領域，是
目前科技界公認最具有潛力的研究領域之
一。近年來，微霧化器在微機電領域中的
研究受到廣泛的注意，主要是因為以噴霧
方式治療呼吸道方面疾病是目前盛行的治
療方法，加上利用壓電材料振動所產生之
霧化器技術已成熟，其具有無熱污染和霧
化粒徑大小具有高度一致性之優點。微型
霧化器噴霧方式就是藉由微致動器拍打液
體腔內的流體以產生壓力波，當液體受到
壓力波時便會向噴孔片推擠，以產生霧化
之效果。目前國內有幾所大學和工研院都
已開始積極研發微霧化器上的致動器。本
研究之重點為利用有限元素分析軟體分析
當薄膜噴孔片因外力產生變形時，共振頻
率與模態振型之改變，並探討變形前後的
系統共振行為之差異，藉此結果以提供控
制薄膜噴孔片之變形來提升微型霧化器的
霧化效果。 
 
二、研究目的 
 
本研究主要是為了避免超音波霧化器
所造成的熱污染與高耗能，因此利用壓電
致動器作為霧化器之致動來源，並將噴孔
片改為具磁性之材料，考慮利用電磁力將
磁性薄膜吸引或排斥，當磁性薄膜受到電
磁力而變形時，霧化效果也會隨著變化，
本研究將利用此種變形機制進行設計以控
制微霧化器之霧化性能。 
當微型霧化器之磁性噴孔片受到磁力
吸引或排斥時，其共振頻率可能因磁性噴
孔片的變形而改變，但微型霧化器需作動
於共振頻率下才會有較好的霧化效果，因
此將利用有限元素分析軟體進行微型霧化
器之共振頻率分析，以取得微型霧化器之
作動頻率，並於噴孔片上施加一外力產生
變形，將變形後之模型進行模態分析，以
得到噴孔片變形後之模態頻率與未變形之
模態頻率差異度。 
 
三、研究方法 
 
本研究使用的有限元素分析軟體為
ANSYS，利用 ANSYS 軟體建立微型霧化
器的有限元素模型，因為此模型須解決在
流固耦合下的模態分析問題，故本研究選
擇 ANSYS 軟體中內建的 FLUID30 元素做
為本模型的流體模擬元素。FLUID30 元素
具有壓力之自由度，可於後處理中觀察各
共振頻率下的壓力分佈情形，並利用
SOLID45 元素進行建模。圖一為微型霧化
器之有限元素模型。 
 
圖一 微型霧化器之有限元素模型 
 4
力分佈特性，可將噴孔片的噴孔位置設計
於噴孔片的中央部分，確保本微型霧化器
之液體在霧化時，所受到的振動能量不會
相互抵消，且是在最大壓力下產生的最佳
霧化效果。當本微型霧化器在共振頻率
3195.8 Hz 與共振頻率 7425.0 Hz 下振動
時，可發現噴孔片的壓力分佈情形相較於
共振頻率 1960.4 Hz 與 4168.0 Hz 複雜許
多，尤其是在共振頻率 7425.0 Hz 的振動
下，噴孔片的最大及最小壓力分佈同時位
於噴孔片的多個位置上，此分佈情形不只
有液體壓力互相抵消之疑慮，在噴孔位置
設計上也較複雜且分散。 
 
表二 噴孔片上之液體壓力分佈情形 
 
綜合上述之觀察結果，共振頻率
1960.4 Hz 與 4168.0 Hz 之模態振型，不僅
具有單純且容易激發之優點，在其振型上
的壓力分佈也較其他共振頻率之模態振型
易於設計噴孔片之噴孔位置，因此在考慮
有預應力作用下的模態分析時，將針對此
二共振頻率下的模態振型做為主要觀察對
象。 
變形後的模態分析結果 
微型霧化器之噴孔片在受壓力產生變
形後，在預應力下的模態分析結果如表三
及圖四所示。由表及圖中可看出當施加於
噴孔片之壓力為 0.1 mN/mm2 時，第一組與
第三組模態之共振頻率並無變化，當壓力
增加至 1 mN/mm2 時，共振頻率才開始有
變化，不過其共振頻率變化情形並不明
顯。直到施加壓力值增加至 3 mN/mm2 以
上時，第一組模態之共振頻率則開始有較
為明顯的變化，尤其當壓力增加至 10 
mN/mm2 時其共振頻率變化值已經達到
112 Hz。根據此一分析數據可推論，當本
微型霧化器之噴孔片受到 3 mN/mm2 之壓
力負載時，則必須開始注意第一組模態之
共振頻率的改變量，尤其當壓力負載增加
10 mN/mm2 時，則必須要考慮改變本微型
霧化器之工作頻率，使本微型霧化器可在
較佳的霧化效率下運作。 
相較於第一組模態之共振頻率變化情
形，第三組模態的共振頻率變化情形並不
明顯，尤其是施加之壓力在 1 mN/mm2 至 5 
mN/mm2 間時，其共振頻率變化量仍只有
些微之變化，當施加之壓力為 6 mN/mm2
以上時，其頻率之變化量才開始出現較為
明顯的變化，但其改變量並不像第一組模
態之共振頻率一樣擁有較大幅度的變化，
在壓力施加至 10 mN/mm2 時，其振頻率改
變量也只有 22.3 Hz 的大小。 
 
表三 噴孔片變形後所產生的共振頻率變
化 
 
圖四 共振頻率改變量與施加的均佈壓力
值之關係圖 
由以上的觀察結果可發現，若本微型 
Asian Pacific Conference for Materials and Mechanics 2009 at Yokohama, Japan, November 13-16 
ON SMART MAGNETIC FLUIDS IN EXTERNALLY APPLIED 
NON-UNIFORM RADIAL MAGNETIC  
 H.-H. Tsai1, L.-W. Chen2, C.-H. Tsai2, and H.-H. Huang2 
1Dept. Biomechatronics Engineering,  
2Dept. Vehicle Engineering,  
National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, Taiwan. 
Corresponding author: sanlyhuang@mail.npust.edu.tw 
 
 
1. BACKGROUND 
There are many types of smart materials used in engineering applications. Some common ones 
include piezoelectric materials, shape memory alloys and polymers, pH-sensitive polymers, 
temperature-responsive polymers, halochromic and chromogenic materials, and magneto-
rheological fluids (also called smart magnetic fluids).   
Any relative displacement of a conducting magnetic fluid in a magnetic field will produce an 
electromotive force, which will then generate an electric current field and later will induce a 
corresponding induced magnetic field.  This is a typical phenomenon in electromagnetism in 
conducting magnetic fluids.  With the presence of the electric current and magnetic fields, a 
force sometimes called the Laplace force will be generated to act on each unit volume of the 
smart material.  This Laplace force serves to oppose the magnetic fluid motion and therefore can 
be considered as a braking mechanism for appropriate applications [1].  
So far, smart magnetic fluid has found to be excellent for various engineering applications: 
(a) Magnetic fluids are used to form liquid seals surrounding a shaft.  The smart magnetic 
fluid which is injected into the gap between the magnet and the rotating shaft form an 
excellent protection protecting the system from dust invasion [2]. 
(b) Magnetic fluids also serve as excellent lubricants.  They can be injected into the gaps 
between moving mechanical parts.  During most operations, the leakage of the fluid can 
be minimized if not totally prohibited because of electromagnetism effect [3]. 
(c) Magnetic fluids are commonly used as the MRI contrast agents for cancer detection.  
Sometimes, magnetic fluid is also used in experimental cancer treatments named 
magnetic hyperthermia [4].  
(d) Magnetorheological damper has been lately used as a kind of active suspension system in 
vehicles.  This system is surrounded with an electromagnet and the viscosity of its 
magnetic filling can be almost instanteneously changed to account for the driver 
preference.  This means can effectively improve the stability control of the vehicle owing 
to that fact that its damping factor can be adjusted within millisecond in response to 
unaccounted and unfavorable driving conditions [5].   
(e) The application of magnetic fluid can also be found in safety devices.  Sharing the same 
concepts as of the magnetorheological dampers, magnetic fluid is also found in helicopter 
cockpit seats for its damping response can significantly decrease the rate of permanent 
injury during a holicopter accident. 
  The goal of this work is to investigate how a smart magnetic fluid enclosed in an annular space 
may response to the combination effects of rotational inner cylinder and non-uniform external 
Asian Pacific Conference for Materials and Mechanics 2009 at Yokohama, Japan, November 13-16 
 
3. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS 
Based on current study, it is confirmed that the effect of the externally applied magnetic field 
whose Ha < 1 is insignificant for all configurations of magnetic fields.  Because of the abrupt 
introduction and termination of magnetic field, distinguish localized magnetic effect has been 
observed.  Figures 2 show the contours of stream function for the smart magnetic fluid subject to 
the four types of externally applied magnetic field distributions of Ha = 30, which are shown in 
Figures 1.  As evidently shown in Figure 2(a), the contours of stream functions appear to be a 
family of concentric circles implying that the magnetic flow between the inner and outer cylinders 
is purely a swirl flow.  In other words, the velocity profiles for the magnetic fluid is completely 
angular independent under the influence of a uniformly applied external magnetic field. 
Figure 2(b) shows the contour of stream functions of the magnetic fluid subjected to a semi-
circular external magnetic field.  Unlike that in Figure 2(a), there exists an additional recirculation 
cell at the lower portion of the annular space.  Since the magnetic field is only applied in the upper 
half of the annulus, the magnetic fluid in the upper half region solely flows in the counter-
clockwise direction.  On the other hand, a recirculation cell develops in the lower half region 
simply as a result of the braking effect due to the external magnetic field in the upper half region.  
As the magnetic fluid enters the upper half region, the fluid is forced to slow down when it 
experiences great resistance originated from the Laplac force.  Once it enters the upper region, the 
fluid expands almost radially toward the outer cylinder.  When the fluid leaves the upper half 
region and enters the lower half region, it is squeezed into the region betwwen the inner cylinder 
surface and the recirculation cell.  Clearly, localized magnetic field serves to accelerate and 
decelerate the smart magnetic fluids as well as changing their trajectories depending on whether 
the magnetic field is introduced or terminated. 
If the magnetic field conditions in the second and third quadrants are interchanged, there exist 
in the regions without external magnetic field two recirculation cells, as shown in Figure 2(c).  
Also notice is that these two recirculation cells are actually weaker than that showin in Figure 
2(b).  This is simply because the recirculation cell shown in Figure 2(b) is split into the two cells 
shown in Figure 2(c).  Except those very close to the rotating inner cylinder, the majority fluid 
elements flowing in the regions with external magnetic fields also flow slower than the previous 
case.   
Figure 2(d) shows the flow pattern of the magnetic fluid in the annular space under the influence 
of a three-quarter-circular external magnetic field.  The recirculation of smart magnetic fluid takes 
place in the region without magnetic field. The outer boundary of the local swirl always attaches 
to the border where magnetic effect is introduced and terminated. As the strength of the magnetic 
field increases, the smart magnetic fluid tends to circulate leading to an obvious local 
acceleration and deceleration. 
Based on the comparion of contours illustrated in Figure 2, it is discovered that when the 
external magnetic field spans over the upper half region, the magnetic fluid is squeezed and 
dragged into the shear layer.  In contrast, if the external magnetic field is split and applied 
alternatively over the upper and lower half semi-annular spaces, the shear flow still need to force 
their way through.  When a three-quarter-circular external magnetic field is applied at the first, 
third, and fourth quadrant, the fluid actually experience less resistance to flow through the region 
without external magnetic field.   
 
 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           98 年 12 月 7 日 
報告人姓名  
蔡循恒 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
 
屏東科技大學生物機電系 
副教授兼系主任 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
98年 11月 13日至 16日 
日本橫濱 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC 98-2221-E-020-011  
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 亞太材料與機械研討會 
 (英文) Asian Pacific Conference for Materials and Mechanics (APCMM) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 以外加非均勻徑向磁力之智慧型磁性流體 
 (英文) ON SMART MAGNETIC FLUIDS IN EXTERNALLY APPLIED NON-UNIFORM 
RADIAL MAGNETIC 
附
件
三 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           98 年 12 月 7 日 
報告人姓名  蔡循恒 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
屏東科技大學生物機電系 
副教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
98 年 11 月 13 日至 16 日 
日本橫濱 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 98-2221-E-020-011  
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 亞太材料與機械研討會 
 (英文) Asian Pacific Conference for Materials and Mechanics (APCMM) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 以外加非均勻徑向磁力之智慧型磁性流體 
 (英文) ON SMART MAGNETIC FLUIDS IN EXTERNALLY APPLIED NON-UNIFORM RADIAL 
MAGNETIC 
附件三
 
表 Y04 
表 Y04 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蔡循恒 計畫編號：98-2221-E-020-011- 
計畫名稱：生物醫學微噴霧器之開發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
