 目錄 
       
 中文摘要                                       3 
 英文摘要                                      3 
 報告內容與參考文獻                                 4 -9 
 本計劃相關著作                                        9 
 計畫成果自評                                          9   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
Phosphorous doped Ru improves its performance 
against Cu penetrations. This NSC report is based 
on these two papers. 
 
Keywords: Diffusion barrier, Ruthenium, Doped 
ruthenium, Copper interconnect, Copper 
metallization 
 
Phosphorous doped Ru film for advanced Cu diffusion barriers 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－006－291 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：彭洞清  國立成功大學微電子工程研究所/電機工程系 
(e-mail: dcperng@ee.ncku.edu.tw)
Abstract 
    Copper diffusion barrier properties of phosphorous doped Ru filmare studied. Phosphorous 
out-diffusion to Ru from underneath phosphosilicate glass (PSG) layer results in P doped Ru film. The 
doped Ru film improves copper barrier properties and has excellent thermal stability. XRD graph indicates 
that there is no copper silicide and ruthenium silicide formations after annealing at 550 oC for 30 min in 
vacuum. This result is consistant with AES depth profiles which show no Cu, Ru, O and Si inter-diffusion. 
The phosphorous doped Ru barrier also blocks oxygen’s diffusion to copper from the PSG layer. The 
phosphorous doped Ru film could be an alternative Cu diffusion barrier for advanced Cu interconnects.
1. Introduction 
    Copper (Cu) metallization process and low-k 
materials were adopted to reduce RC delay and 
improve the performance of advanced integrated 
circuits (IC). Copper diffusion barrier TaN/Ta has 
been widely implemented in IC as a reliable barrier 
for Cu interconnects [1,2]. However, with continual 
scaling of IC critical dimension (CD), the 
cross-section area of the TaN/Ta barrier will 
contribute a significant portion of the copper wire 
which results in higher resistance and causes 
difficult copper filling. Therefore, scaling of copper 
barrier and seed layers are also required for smaller 
features like 32 nm technology node and beyond 
[3]. Recently, ruthenium (Ru) has emerged as an 
alternative copper diffusion barrier [4–6]. Ru has 
low bulk resistivity (7.1 mV cm) and very low 
solubility with copper. It can be deposited by 
physical vapor deposition (PVD), chemical vapor 
deposition (CVD) or atomic layer deposition (ALD) 
techniques. A thin Ru barrier is also capable of 
direct copper plating without seed layer [5]. Ru 
barrier could be a great candidate to meet the 
copper barrier/seed scaling requirements. 
Unfortunately, Ru has poor adhesion to oxide [3]. 
In addition, ultra thin Ru film as Cu diffusion 
barrier is thermally stable up to 300 oC only [6]. 
Improvement of barrier properties is needed for 
thin Ru film when used as an alternative Cu barrier 
for 32 nm node and beyond. 
    Usually grain boundaries are the fast copper 
diffusion paths. These more open structures 
increase the jump frequency for copper atom’s 
migration along the grain boundaries. Rapid 
diffusion along the grain boundaries increases the 
mean copper concentration at that path. The 
relatively higher concentration gradient in turn 
helps further diffusion. Easy failure of an ultra thin 
 4
higher temperature (550 oC) annealed Cu/(Ru, P)/ 
PSG sample also shows improved barrier 
properties and capable of blocking oxygen’s 
penetration. The reasons for the P doped Ru film 
able to block oxygen diffusion into Cu could be 
that when we dope P to Ru via out-diffusion, there 
was no copper on top of the Ru film. Both 
phosphorous and oxygen atoms can diffuse into Ru 
film from PSG layer during the 500 oC 30 min 
out-diffusion step. Phosphorous forming bonding 
with oxygen is easier than Ru because Ru has 
much less negative standard free energy of oxide 
formation than phosphorous [10]. When Cu 
deposited on the top of the P doped Ru, oxygen 
will less likely diffuse to copper due to Cu–O 
having less negative standard free energy than P–O. 
The annealing temperature might not be sufficient 
to break P–O bond either. For the Ru film without 
phosporous doping case, annealing of the film 
stack Cu/Ru/PSG results in oxygen diffusion to Cu 
from PSG layer. The standard free energy of oxide 
formation for copper is more negative than 
ruthenium [10,11]. Therefore, oxygen will likely 
penetrate thin Ru barrier to copper layer. 
    The XRD spectra in Fig. 4 show that the 30 
nm Ru with P doping has no copper or ruthenium 
silicide formation at least to 550 oC for 30 min 
using annealing chamber. Silicides formed when 
the annealing temperature raised to above 700 oC 
using vacuum furnace with much slower 
temperature ramp down rate (~2 oC / min). The 
formation of Cu3Si (0 2 1) and Ru2Si3 (3 2 3) 
indicates failure of the barrier. AES depth profiles 
as shown in Fig. 5 also indicate the inter-diffusion 
of Cu, Ru, O and Si atoms. The P doped 30 nm 
ruthenium cannot prevent copper atoms’ 
penetration through ruthenium layer after annealed 
at 700 oC. The prolonged annealing time due to 
lower temperature ramp down rate in vacuum 
furnace may caused the failure of the P doped Ru 
barrier. Fig. 6a and b is the transmission electron 
microscopy images of the Cu/(Ru, P)/PSG films 
after annealing at 400 oC and 700 oC, respectively. 
The 400 oC annealed sample (Fig. 6a) shows clear 
interface between copper and Ru barrier layer. It 
has no signs of Cu penetration. On the other hand, 
copper and ruthenium silicide formed for the 700 
oC prolonged annealing sample. The TEM images 
agree with X-ray diffraction patterns and AES 
depth profiles. 
 
4. Conclusions 
    We have demonstrated that doping phosphorus 
into thin Ru film improves barrier properties. 
Stuffing ruthenium’s grain boundaries with 
phosporous helps blocking copper’s fast diffusion 
paths. The sheet resistance of the P doped Ru film 
increases slightly. The surface roughness of the 500 
oC annealed (Ru, P) film is much smoother than the 
as-deposited Ru film. The P doped Ru barrier has 
high thermal stability. Furthermore, it can suppress 
oxygen’s diffusion to copper from PSG layer. The 
prolonged temperature ramp down rate (~2 oC /min) 
of the vacuum furnace caused the barrier to failed 
at 700 oC. AES depth profiles also indicate the 
inter-diffusion of Cu, Ru, O and Si atoms. This 
study shows that doping phosphorous (or 
impurities) to thin Ru film is an excellent approach 
to improve Cu diffusion barrier for advanced Cu 
interconnects. 
 
Acknowledgments 
    The authors gratefully acknowledge the Center for 
Micro/Nano Science and Technology (CMNST) for equipment 
support. This work is financially supported by Taiwan’s 
National Science Council under contract no. NSC 96- 
2221-E-006-291 and NCKU Landmark Project C004. 
 
References 
[1]. Kajita, T. Usui, M. Yamada, E. Ogawa, T. Katata, A. 
Sakata, H. Miyajima, A. Kojima, R. Kanamura, Y. Ohok, 
H. Kawashlma, K. Tabuchi, K. Nagahata, Y. Kato, T. 
Hayashi, S. Kadomura, H. Shibata, Proc. Int. 
Interconnect Tech. Conf. (2003) 9. 
[2]. D. Edelstein, et al. IEEE Int. Reliability Physics Symp. 
(2004) 316. 
[3]. C.C. Yang, T. Spooner, S. Ponoth, K. Chanda, A. Simon, 
C. Lavoie, M. Lane, C.K. Hu, E. Liniger, L. Gignac, T. 
Shaw, S. Cohen, F. McFeely, D. Edelstein, Proc. Int. 
Interconnect Tech. Conf. (2006) 187. 
[4]. S.M. Choi, K.C. Park, B.S. Suh, I.R. Kim, H.K. Kang, 
 6
 
Fig. 3. AES depth profiles of the Cu/Ru/PSG stacked films (a) Ru without P doping (b) Ru with P doping 
after annealing at 400 oC for 30 min. 
 
 
Fig. 4. The XRD patterns of the P doped 30 nm Ru film with annealing temperatures of 400 oC, 500 oC, 550 
oC, 700 oC, and 800 oC. 
 
Fig. 5. AES depth profiles of the Cu/(Ru, P)/PSG stacked films after annealing at 700 oC for 30 min. 
 
 8
 1
國科會專題研究計畫  出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
專題研究計畫: 積體電路 32 奈米以下銅阻障層材料的研究(I) 
Study of Advanced Cu Barrier for 32 nm Node and Beyond 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－006－291 
執行期間： 96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
報告者：彭 洞 清(計畫主持人) 
單位：成功大學微電子研究所 
 
 
Conference attended: Fifth International Symposium on Control of Semiconductor Interfaces 
 (ISCSI-V) – for Next Generation ULSI Process Integration- 2007 
Conference location: Tokyo, Japan 
Conference date: November 12-14, 2007 
 
 We presented a paper “Phosphorous Doped Ru Film for Advanced Cu Diffusion Barriers” on 
this conference. The conference paper can be seen on “Proceedings of the Fifth International 
Symposium on Control of Semiconductor Interfaces (ISCSI)” Tokyo, Japan, Nov. 2007 p.173. 
The Fifth International Symposium on Control of Semiconductor Interfaces is focus on  
next generation ULSI process integration. The ISCSI-V conference is emphasized in the 
following areas:  
(1) Thin film growth and characterization of Si, strained-Si, Ge, SiGe(C), SiC, and diamond 
 materials 
(2) Formation and characterization of Si-based nanostructures 
(3) Surface and interface control 
(4) Process technology 
(5) Device technology 
 
 This report will discuss some good papers related to IC area:  
 
High-k Gate Stacks:   
 - M. Caymax et al. “Interface control of high-k gate dielectrics on Ge” 
 Passivation of Ge/gate dielectric interfaces by thermally oxidized GeO2 interface and ALD 
 high-k layers were reported. The interface state density Dit was ~2 x 1011 cm-2 eV-1. Another 
