 II 
使用甲襞微血管影像辨識技術 
診斷紅斑性狼瘡與硬皮症之研究 
摘 要       
在臨床上使用甲襞影像檢測已行之有年，所得到的檢查結果被公認為具有代表性。然
而醫師使用甲襞影像診斷疾病的方法與效率並沒有隨著科技的發展而改善。在免疫疾病罹
患初期，輕微的病變難以被發現，等到明顯的病徵顯現時，疾病已嚴重惡化。因此本研究
使用甲襞微血管影像分析技術，建立紅斑性狼瘡(SLE)與硬皮症(SSc)的輔助診斷資訊系
統，除可判斷疾病種類外，更能檢測疾病的進程。本系統的理論基礎在於 SLE 與 SSc 病患
的共同特徵是兩者都具有雷諾氏現象的發生，並造成甲襞微血管的變形，依變形的程度成
為巨大化的微血管與雜亂的微血管。系統取得患者的甲襞影像需先切割成若干單一的微血
管影像，並找出其輪廓。利用這些微血管的周長、面積與管徑大小，判斷微血管的變形類
別與疾病類別。再根據兩類變形微血管的數量用來判斷疾病的進程。本研究採用了 24 個
SLE 病患與 9 個硬皮症患者的甲襞影像做為樣本進行實驗。所得的分類結果，對於硬皮症
與初期病患有較佳的診斷。 
 
關鍵字: 甲襞, 微血管, 影像辨識, 紅斑性狼瘡, 系統性硬皮症.
 1 
Introduction 
 
 Rheumatological diseases, such as Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and Systemic 
Scleroderma (SSc), threat human health more and more seriously.   According to a USA 
government study in 2002, the annual SLE death number has risen from 879 to 1,406 since 1979.  
About one third of these deaths occur in people aged 15-44, mostly women.  Although in 
European and North American patients with SLE, overall 5-year survival rates are 93 - 95%, but 
in Asia or Africa they are considerable lower, 60 - 70% [45].  On the other hand, the 10-year 
survival rates of patients with SSc are 60 – 80% in USA [46].  However, in China, the death rate 
of patients with SSc is four times of the normal, and the 10-year survival rates of patients with 
diffuse and limited systemic SSc are 55% and 75% respectively [47]. 
 
SLE and SSc are progressive systemic connective tissue diseases.  In SLE, the immune 
system violates tissues in several parts of the body and leads to tissue damage and illness.  
Scleroderma is a chronic, infrequency, autoimmune disease in which normal tissue is displaced 
with dense, thick fibrous tissue.  Systemic scleroderma not only can influence the skin, but also 
can affect many internal organs.  Early detection and treatment of these diseases may let their 
progression under good control.  However, most patients can not awake to the primary condition 
in the initial stage. 
 
How to detect these rheumatological diseases early is a challenge for the rheumatologists.  
In their early pattern, SLE and SSc are obscure for diagnosing.  Especially, many symptoms of 
SLE can be also detected in lots diseases.  For a junior physician, it is very difficult to discern 
the difference between SLE and other diseases.   
 
On most patients with SLE or SSc can discover that their skin become harder and harder in 
the end of extremities.  This phenomenon is caused by Raynaud’s phenomenon (RP) that leads 
the capillary shape to deform.  By abnormal nailfold capillary microscopy images, physicians 
may be able to note the dormant disease of a patient. 
 
There are several investigations discussed abnormal nailfold capillary classification and 
diseases evaluation criteria.  M Cutolo et al. [9, 10] provided five taxonomies to classify vessels 
on nailfold images, while B.F. Jones et al. [24] addressed the detail of capillary shapes 
descriptions.  The measurement of capillary features was advocated by Axel von Bierbrauer et 
al. [3], eight features have been experimented to chase the differences between patients’ 
connective tissue diseases with healthy people.  Based on the proposed criteria, physicians may 
make diagnosis by way of patient’s nailfold images. 
 
Reading nailfold images is a discreet and inefficient task.  There are eight nailfold images 
captured from a patient and a lot of capillaries appear on each image.  A physician has to 
recognize every capillary on all images one by one.  Or some clues to correct diagnosis will be 
 3 
Literature Review 
 
 Nailfold imaging was used to early detect diseases, and trace them since 1950s.  Several 
researchers have observed that the capillary pattern in the nailfold was completely disorganized 
in the presence of certain diseases.  Many investigations discussed the nailfold capillary 
classification, diseases evaluation criteria and how to extract vessels from images.  M Cutolo et 
al. [9, 10] and B.F. Jones et al. [24] provided macro-vessel classification and the detail of 
capillary shapes descriptions.  The measurement of capillary features was advocated by Axel 
von Bierbrauer et al. [3], eight features has been experimented to chase the differences between 
patients connective tissue diseases with healthy people.  P.D. Allen et al. [1] and Cemil Kirbas et 
al. [26] proposed their capillary and disease classification systems respectively. 
 
 M. Cutolo et al. [9, 10] defined five taxonomies from nailfold images as follows: (1) 
enlarged/giant vessel, (2) hemorrhages point, (3) loss of capillaries, (4) disorganization vessel, 
and (5) ramified/bushy capillaries.  Their primary idea is from features’ morphology.  Two of 
the five taxonomies, i.e. giant/enlarge capillary and disorganization capillary, are selected as 
capillary types in this research.  The capillary types will be evaluated into three levels, say, early, 
middle, and late patterns according to the statistical data of features. 
 
 B.F. Jones et al. [24] addressed in detail capillary shape classification.  They advocated that 
nailfold capillaries cover six descriptive classes: (1) cuticulis, (2) open, (3) tortuous, (4) crossed, 
(5) bushy, and (6) bizarre.  The six types of capillary give us a description in classifying a single 
capillary.  The first three classes are based on capillary length, width, and the curvature of the 
capillary limbs.  The last three classes are characterized by their topology.  A crossed capillary 
has a closed area that is not connected with the background.  Bushy and bizarre capillaries have 
curious shapes that are characterized by the convex hull of their skeleton.  These two classes 
may be modified according to anomalies in width and length. 
 
 Axel von Bierbrauer et al [3]. proposed those capillary features between connective diseases 
and healthy people.  They used eight attributes as follows: (1) vessel area, (2) vessel perimeter, 
(3) maximum vessel diameter, (4) papillary area, (5) number of vessels per papillary, (6) 
formfactor, (7) vascular surface density, and (8) vessel area per papillary area.  These features 
are used to compare healthy people with patients in SLE, SSc, MCTD, and nCTD.  They 
confirmed that deformation of capillaries to diseases classification is beneficial.  According to 
this study, we design a similar experiment, but the spotlight is on the first three attributes.      
 
 P.D. Allen et al. [1] designed a computer-based system for acquisition and analysis of 
images from nailfold video microscopy.  It uses video frame registration to facilitate integration 
of information over time, averaging out noise and temporal variability in the appearance of the 
capillary loops.  According to the arterial limb, apex diameter, venous limbs, and total capillary 
width, this system will display that if people have primary Raynaud’s phenomenon or not. 
 5 
one, the giant/enlarge and the disorganization are deformation of capillaries.  
  
 The giant/enlarge capillary is that some parts of the capillary are larger than normal ones.  
The disorganization capillaries are those crossed each others or have new branches.  A majority 
rule about the three attributes is adopted to classify a capillary.  Before performing the 
classifying procedure, Average values of the three attributes for patients in Taiwan are evaluated.  
For a normal capillary, its average diameter, capillary area, and capillary perimeter are about 11 
µm, 87.5 µm2, and 38.5 µm respectively.  For a disorganization capillary, value ranges of its 
average diameter, capillary area, and capillary perimeter are between 11 and 25.5 µm, 87.5µm2 
and 267.5 µm2, and 38.5µm and 68.5 µm respectively.  For a giant/enlarge capillary, its average 
diameter, capillary area, and capillary perimeter are more than 25.5 µm, 267.5 µm2, and 68.5 µm 
respectively.  If the attribute values of a tested capillary meet two criteria of a capillary type, it 
will be classified into that type of capillary. 
 
Disease classification 
 
  In the research of Axel von Bierbrauer et al. [3], capillary features are used to compare 
healthy people with patients in SLE, SSc, MCTD, and nCTD.  That research provided some 
statistics of capillary features corresponding to various diseases.  Table 1 shows some 
histomorphometry to compare mean values for vessel area, vessel perimeter, and maximum 
vessel diameter between healthy people, SLE, and SSc.   Those values revealed that 
deformation of capillaries is effective in diseases classification.  Accordingly, the three attributes, 
namely average capillary area, average capillary perimeter, and average capillary diameter, are 
chosen as the criteria of disease classification in this study.   
    
Table 1   Histomorphometry of healthy people, SLE, and SSc [2]. 
 
 
 Table 2 shows the average capillary diameter, capillary area, and capillary perimeter of 
patients in Taiwan.  It is used as the criteria to classify SLE and SSc by capillary images.  To 
classify the disease, values of the three attributes measured from a patient are compared with the 
 7 
as a normal case.  At least, the patient is healthy in nailfold.  If the number of disorganization 
capillaries is between 1 and 6, the case will be directly sent to the active pattern.  If the number 
of disorganization capillaries is more than 6, the case will be directly sent to the late stage.  If 
the number of giant/enlarge capillaries are between 1 and 6, and the amount of disorganization 
capillary is 0, it is in the early stage, only with a few deformations.  While the number of 
giant/enlarge capillaries is more than 6 and the number of disorganization capillaries is 0, 
although it is classified in the early stage, it closes to the middle stage. 
 
 
Experimental Results 
 
 Two kinds of experiments are performed to verify the correctness of classification method 
designed in this research.   The first verifies the correctness of diagnosing SLE and SSC by 
capillary features.  The second is used for that of disease progression.   
 
 The experimental environment is provided by Division of Allergy, Immunology, and 
Rheumatology, Taichung Veterans General Hospital (TCVGH).  When speaking of treating 
immunological diseases in adults and children, the Division of Allergy, Immunology, and 
Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Taichung Veterans General Hospital (TCVGH) 
is the largest authority in Taiwan.  Their patients are numerous across Taiwan, and they have 
traced and kept this large amount of anamneses for more than two decades, being one the best 
sources for our research [5, 18]. 
 
 The experimental system consists of a CCD camera, JVC 3-CCD PC. Mount , a printer, 
Mitsubishi P90, a finger stand, a microscope, Leica MZ12, and a notebook PC, AUSU A8JR.  
The application system is developed on Microsoft Visual Studio .NET 2005 SP1 platform with 
C++ Language.  The notebook is equipped with a CPU Core2 Duo 1.8 GHz and Windows Vista 
Home Premium Server Pack 1 (32 bits) Operating System. 
 
 Individual capillary images have to be isolated for advanced analysis.  In order to get 
consistent analyzing result, the size of every capillary image has to be standardized.  The height 
of each segmented vessel is 250 pixels, but the width of each capillary is fluctuant.  Since the 
captured original images are complicated and the width of abnormal capillary is changeable, 
automatically extracting a completely capillary shape is hard to be achieved.  Thus, the capillary 
images are manually extracted and affirmed by an immunologist. 
 
 
Disease classification correctness 
 
 In this study, capillary deformations are used to classify diseases.  The three capillary 
attributes, average capillary diameter, average capillary area, and average capillary perimeter, 
 9 
pattern (66.6%) and in late pattern (64.6%). 
 
 The correctness of early pattern is baldly higher than those of other patterns.  That is 
because most deformations are giant/enlarge capillaries in early pattern.  Since giant capillary is 
more conspicuous for recognition, it is obvious that disease in early pattern may be diagnosed 
easily.   
 
Table 3  Experimental results of classifying disease progression based on nailfold images. 
The Diseases Classification Result in Single ailfold Image 
 Early pattern 
Active 
pattern 
Late pattern Total Correctness  
Early pattern 92 4 0 96 95.8% 
Active 
pattern 
13 80 27 120 66.6% 
Late pattern 0 17 31 48 64.6% 
 
 Table 5 shows the experimental results of classifying disease progression based on test cases.  
The correctness of classification in early pattern is 91.6%, which is better than those of 
classification in active pattern (73.3%) and in late pattern (66.6%).  The correctness for active 
stage is improved and that for early stage goes down. That is because some images of a patient in 
active stage present mild pattern easily and thus are classified to early stages.   
 
 
Table 4  Experimental results of classifying disease progression based on test cases. 
The Diseases Classification Result in Patients 
 Early pattern 
Active 
pattern 
Late pattern Total Correctness 
Early pattern 11 1 0 12 91.6% 
Active 
pattern 
2 11 2 15 73.3% 
Late pattern 0 2 4 6 66.6% 
 
 
Conclusion and Future Work 
 
 This study proposed and implemented a computer-assisted system in supporting SLE/SSc 
diagnosis.   It is beneficial in diagnosing SSc and in determining the patient is in early stage 
according to the experimental results.  In other words, the system may detect SSc and SLE early.   
 
 11 
capillaries,” Biorheology, Vol. 1, pp. 143-146, 1963.  
5. P.I. Brånemark, “The contribution of microscopes to the study of living circulation: 
Contributions and limitations of refined classical methods,” J. Roy. Microscope So., Vol. 83, 
pp. 29-35, 1964.  
6. M. Bukhari,“Quantitation of Microcirculatory Abnormalities in Patients with Primary 
Raynaud’s Phenomenon and Systemic Sclerosis by Video Capillaroscopy,” Rheumatology, 
Vol.39, pp. 506-512, 2000. 
7. P.H. Carpentier and H.R. Maricq, “Microvasculature in systemic sclerosis,” Rheum. Dis. 
Clin. N. Am., Vol. 16, No. 1, pp. 75-91, 1990. 
8. M. Cutolo, “Capillaroscopy,” Best Practice & Research Clinical Rheumatology, Vol.19, 
No.3, pp.437-452, 2005. 
9. M. Cutolo, Walter Grassi, and Marco Matucci Cerinic, “Raynaud’s Phenomenon and the 
Role of Capillaroscopy,” Arthritis & Rheumatism, Vol.48, No.11, pp. 3023-3030, 2003. 
10. M. Cutolo, Sulli A, Pizzorni C, and Accardo S, “Nailfold videocapillaroscopy assessment of 
microvascular damage in systemic sclerosis,” Journal of Rheumatology, Vol. 27, pp.155-60, 
2000. 
11. M. Cutolo, A. Sulli, C. Pizzorni, and S. Accardo, “Nailfold videocapillaroscopy assessment 
of microvascular damage in systemic sclerosis,” J. Rheumatol., Vol. 27, pp. 155-160, 2000. 
12. M.A.A. Dancour, J.L.P. Vaz, D.A. Bottino and E. Bouskela, “Nailfold videocapillaroscopy 
in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus,” Rheumatology International, Vol. 26, pp. 
633-637, 2006. 
13. P. Dolezalova, S.P. Young, P.A. Bacon,T.R. Southwood, “Nailfold capillary microscopy in 
healthy children and in childhood rheumatic diseases: a prospective single blind 
observational study,” Ann Rheum Dis., Vol. 62, pp. 444-449, 2003. 
14. B. Flagrell, A.P. Shepherd and A. Oberg, “Peripheral vascular diseases in Laser Doppler 
Flowmetry,” Kluwer Academic, pp. 201-214, 1990.  
15. B. Flagrell, A. Fronek, and M. Intaglietta, “A microscope television system for studying 
flow velocity in human skin capillaries,” American Journal of Physiology, Vol. 233, pp. 
H318-H321, 1977. 
16. R.C. Gonzales and R.E. Woods, “Digital Image Processing, 2nded. Reading,” 
Addison-Wesley, 1992.  
17. M.H. Grigg and J.N.Wolfe. “Raynaud’s Syndrome and Similar Conditions.” British Medical 
Journal, Vol. 303, pp. 913-916, 1991  
18. Arthur C. Guyton, “Textbook of medical physiology. Eighth edition,” W.B. Saunders 
Compan, Philadelphia, United States American, pp. 170-193, 1991. 
19. A.L. Herrick, and C. Hutchinson, “Vascular Imaging,” Best Practice & Research Clinical 
Rheumatology, Vol.18, No.6, pp.957-979, 2004. 
20. L. Hertz and W. Schafer, “Multilevel thresholding using edge matching,” Comput. Vis. 
Graph. Image Processing, Vol. 44, pp. 279-295, 1988. 
21. P.M. Houtman, C.G.M. Kallenberg, V. Fidler, and A. A. Wouda, “Diagnostic significance of 
nailfold capillary patients with Raynaud’s phenomenon,” J. Rheumatol., Vol. 13, No. 3, p. 
