2本產學合作計畫研發成果及績效達成情形自評表
成果項目 本產學合作計畫預估研究成果及績效指標
（作為本計畫後續管考之參據）
計畫達成情形
技術移轉 預計技轉授權 1 項 完成技轉授權 1 項
國內 預估 1 件 提出申請 1 件，獲得 0 件
專利
國外 預估 1 件 提出申請 1 件，獲得 0 件
博士 2 人，畢業任職於業界 1 人
博士 2 人，畢業任職於業
界 1 人
碩士 1 人，畢業任職於業界 1 人
碩士 1 人，畢業任職於業
界 1 人人才培育
其他 0 人，畢業任職於業界 0 人
其他 0 人，畢業任職於業
界 0 人
期刊論文 1 件 發表期刊論文 0 件
研討會論文 2 件 發表研討會論文 2 件
SCI論文 0 件 發表SCI論文 0 件
專書 0 件 完成專書 0 件
國內
技術報告 1 件 完成技術報告 1 件
期刊論文 1 件 發表期刊論文 1 件
學術論文 件 發表學術論文 件
研討會論文 2 件 發表研討會論文 2 件
SCI/ SSCI論文 件 發表SCI/ SSCI論文 件
專書 件 完成專書 件
論文著作
國外
技術報告 件 完成技術報告 件
其他協助產業發
展之具體績效
新公司或衍生公司 0 家
設立新公司或衍生公司 (名
稱)：
其他
本研究中將設計參數代入無因次等效熱源面積關係式，並將之運用於多熱源熱
傳遞的分析，藉由比較熱阻方程式、電腦模擬分析結果與實驗數據之差異，提
出建立熱源發熱功率、熱源面積、平板熱管厚度及熱源相對位置之間熱傳導與
熱對流熱阻的參數最佳設計區間，並參考 Bi 數作為瞭解小面積熱源的熱傳遞模
式，以為應用平板熱管散熱模組最佳化設計之基礎。
41.Introduction
Latent heat transfer with phase change transmission is constantly used as heat-transport
devices because of the superiority of transferring heat within low temperature differences.
Recently, by stable capability and reliability of vapor chambers fabrication, thus, the vapor
chambers are applied on the electronic cooling. In the proposed thermal design model, vapor
chamber is assumed as a high conductivity interface between heat sources and heatsink, so the
local temperature distribution and the heat spreading effect can be therefore investigated.
Furthermore, the calculated results are in line with the results in previous literatures and the
experiments conducted in this study.
Experimental comparisons between copper, aluminum plates and a vapor chamber having the
same thickness have been also summarized. The spreader plates integrated with a plate-fin
heatsink are tested in a wind tunnel. For small footprint heat sources, such as LED, the vapor
chamber shows a lower thermal resistance and much uniform temperature distribution than the
metal plates. Then, the heatsink integrated with the vapor chamber is simulated by using
numerical model. In order to obtain more accurate calculation domain, the heating block and
insulation are also considered in simulation boundary conditions. These available analysis models
are simulated to real applications, the maximum difference of the hotspot temperature rises
between the simulation and analytical result is 6.1 %. Additionally, a steady state three
dimensional heat conduction equation is analytically solved by using separation of variables. The
temperature distribution within a partially heated rectangular plate is solved and the spreading
thermal resistance is therefore obtained.
The analytical solutions show very good agreement with numerical simulations, and they are
also in line with the previous correlation and approximation. The spreading thermal resistance of
the thin and large base plate is much higher than the one dimensional conduction resistance. By
adapting the ideas of isotropic or anisotropic heat spreading, the equivalent heat source by
multiple heat sources and effective thermal conductivities of the vapor chamber have been
calculated. The axial conductivity of the vapor chamber is around 48.74 W/m-K, but the lateral
length conductivity is more than ten times of the axial conductivity [1]. The high lateral length
conductivity can sufficiently enhance the heat spreading along the lateral direction, and thereby
resulting in a lower total thermal resistance. Combining into the whole module simulation, the
surface temperature distribution is similar as that obtained by numerical model. Moreover, the
thermal spreading resistances have also been analytically investigated. An anisotropic method to
calculate the effective thermal conductivities of vapor chamber is also proposed.
Heat pipes, flat heat pipes, vapor chambers and integrated thermal modules got lots of
applications in cooling industries [2]. However, there was no sufficient model to estimate the
performances of the integrated thermal modules. The proposed equivalent heat source and
calculation of thermal resistance can be helpful to evaluate the performances of vapor chambers,
and it can assist in further designing work of vapor chambers and integrated modules.
2.Multiple heat sources in electronic cooling
2.1Heat generation in electronic system and present applications
Electronic devices increase in computing ability and processing speed, as well
as decrease in size, a problem of heat generation and its efficient removal arises. Excess heat
produces stresses on internal components inside the computer, thus creating performance,
6Fig.2.3 Different shapes of vapor chambers
3. Formula and solution
3.1Biot number
The Biot number (Bi) is a dimensionless number used in non-steady-state (or transient) heat
transfer calculations. It is named after the French physicist Jean-Baptiste Biot (1774-1862), and
gives a simple index of the ratio of the heat transfer resistances inside of and at the surface of a
body [22]. This ratio determines whether or not the temperatures inside a body will vary
significantly in space from a thermal gradient applied to its surface.
In general, problems involving small Bi numbers (much smaller than 1) are thermally simple,
due to uniform temperature fields inside the body. Bi numbers much larger than 1 indicate more
difficult problems due to non-uniformity of temperature fields within the object. The Bi number
has a variety of applications, including use in extended surface heat transfer calculations.
The Biot number is defined as Eq. (3.1):
(3.1)
Where:
h = heat transfer coefficient or convective heat transfer coefficient
t = characteristic length, here is the thickness of heat spreader.
k = Thermal conductivity of the heat spreader
The physical significance of Bi number can be fairly understood by imagining the heat flow from
a small hot metal heat source suddenly immersed in a pool, to the surrounding fluid. The heat
flow experiences two resistances: the first within the solid metal (which is influenced by the size
of the spreader), and the second at the surface of the spreader. If the thermal resistance of the
interface between fluid and spreader exceeds that thermal resistance offered by the interior of the
metal spreader, the Bi number will be less than one. For systems where it is much less than one,
the interior of the spreader may be presumed always to have the same temperature, although this
temperature may be changing as heat passes into the spreader.
3.2 Temperature equation
Optimal heat sources location can get lower average surface temperature. As illustrated in Fig.
3.1 and Fig. 3.2, the vapor chamber is a × b dimension and the single point heat source is
arbitrarily located at (x, y) on the vapor chamber surface.
8(3.4)
(3.5)
Fig. 3.4 Top surface temperature distribution of dual heat sources by Muzychka et al.'s solution
[19]
Fig. 3.5 Top surface temperature distribution of dual heat sources by Y. H. Kim, et al.’s 
numerical analysis [20]
For example, the analysis of the vapor flow field under circumferential heating mode, i.e. when
the heat source covers the entire vapor chamber's evaporation, is quite different from that of the
block-heating mode [24]. This is because the liquid flow in the wick structure is no longer
one-dimensional. When the heater covers partially on the vapor chamber surface, there exists
transverse velocity components and the vapor flow field becomes three-dimensional instead.
Investigations of the metal heatsink under circumferential and block-heating conditions were
carried out and there is the thermal spreading resistance comparison of copper and vapor chamber
base on Fig. 3.6.
10
Thermal resistance (℃ /W),
Case temperature (℃),
Convection coefficient (W/m-K)
Variables:
Sources Size (m),
Sources location (d),
Base Size (l),
Heat sources number (n)
Base Thickness (t)
The correlation of overall thermal resistance is relative to variables above and summarized to
Eq. (3.6), and correlation of spreading thermal resistance is relative to heat source size, location,
spreader base size, and numbers as Eq. (3.7)
Rtotal = f ( m, d , l , n, t) (3.6)
Rs = f ( m, d , l , n) (3.7)
Fig. 3.8 Calculate multiple heat sources from equivalent heat source
4. Experiment and Numerical ayalysis
4.1 Experiment setup of quad heat sources
The purpose on thermal resistance measurement of a vapor chamber without fin heat sink is to
manage optimal pitch between multiple heat sources by determined heat sources size. Table 4.1
shows experiment data of vapor chamber in natural convectional chamber. The optimized
location of single heat source is at the center of the vapor chamber as expected. While for the
case of multiple heat sources, optimized positions can be achieved when the heat sources are
placed symmetrically to one another with respect to the center of the vapor chamber.
Table 4.1 Vapor chamber application on LED cooling (natural convection)
Experimental scenarios of quad heat sources are designed for evaluating thermal test and
numerical result. Fig. 4.1 shows the test procedures of heat sources distance from 20mm to 50mm,
it indicates heat spreading direction in the lateral length of a heating vapor chamber, and Fig. 4.2
is pictures of test processes and equipment, the test plan is same as the numerical models did [26].
Natural convection chamber shows on Fig. 4.3 which is providing a steady test environment by
constant ambient air.
12
Fig. 4.4 Reliability of a cool white LED luminous flux efficiency
Table 4.2 Cree cool white LED thermal spec and reliability
Table 4.3 DOE Energy Star strategy for solid-state lighting (SSL) general illumination products
establishes a transitional approach.
Experimental scenarios of quad heat sources thermal test data on Table 4.4, which correlation
concept is shown on Fig. 4.5, the measured locations are on the solder points, and junction
temperature can be found by Eq. (4.2), each specified lighting device has its own offset equation.
(4.2)
Fig. 4.5 Correlation concept of multiple heat sources and equivalent heat source
Table 4.4 Experimental scenarios of quad heat sources thermal test data
14
4.2 Vapor chamber application on multiple heat sources cooling
A thermal model for simulating the performance of a vapor chamber system can provide an
optimal geometry heat spreader for multiple heat sources cooling. Therefore, thermal phenomena
analysis of multiple heat sources heat spreading and overall performance on a vapor chamber can
be predicted. Table 4.6 shows simulation data of vapor chamber from natural to force convection
cooling.
Table 4.6 Simulation data of vapor chamber
Total thermal resistance includes radial and convectional resistance is more critical factor as
chapter 3 described. Air flow is the key factor for cooling hot components, the lower thermal
resistance, the larger dimensionless heat sources size as shown on Fig. 4.8, and Fig 4.9, shows
good agreement with previous study [28].
Fig. 4.8 Thermal resistance of various dimensionless heat source size and distance (h=100
W/m2C).
16
Fig. 4.11 Thermal resistance compare with Bi number by dimensionless distance (m/l= 0.167)
Spreading resistance of multiple heat sources on a heat spreader is related to heat sources size
and pitch, which can be constantly throughout the materials volume as vapor chamber applied.
The design range labels (Aeq/A)=4.2~15 be the optimal design domain of heat sources as shown
on Fig. 4.12, thus, case temperature of heat source will over thermal spec when 4.2>(Aeq/A), and
thermal solution is over designed when (Aeq/A)>15. The equivalent heat source is close to heat
spreader size, it is same as Fig. 5.14 presented correlation of dimensionless heat sources size, and
total thermal resistance includes radial and convectional resistance is more critical factor for heat
dissipation, the dimensionless size of multiple heat sources increases as the dimensionless
distance (d/l) increases for a fixed heat source size.
Fig. 4.12 Optimal design domain calculated by spreading resistance and dimensionless heat
source area
5.1 Conclusion
Single source we consider about the absolute location on vapor chamber surface, and multiple
heat sources we consider about the relative location of each heat source on vapor chamber [67].
Optimization of the heat source locations can be achieved by using the correlations with
analytical model. When the heat sources are placed arbitrarily on the vapor chamber which will
18
thermal conductivity and Bi number. Results are provided over a wide range of parameters
typically covering the real application ranges. It is concluded that, when the relative thickness is
increased beyond 3.5mm and h>500 W/m2-K, the spreading thermal resistance becomes
independent of the Biot number, and the spreading thermal resistance is only governed by the
other three non-dimensional parameters. Moreover the present analytical model can also
effectively compute the temperature fields and heat flux distribution at different cross-sectional
areas or surfaces of the heat spreader.
Reference
[1] Y. S. Chen, K. H. Chien, T. S. Hung, C. C. Wang, Y. M. Ferng, B. S. Pei, “Numerical 
simulation of a heat sink embedded with vapor chamber and calculation of effective thermal
conductivity of a vapor chamber”,Applied Thermal Engineering 20(13) (2009) 2655-2664.
[2] A. Faghri, Heat Pipe Science and Technology, Taylor & Francis, Washington DC, 1995.
[3] HTTP://www.AMD.com.
[4] HTTP://www.thermacore-europe.com/vapour-chamber
[5]  D. P. Kennedy, “Spreading resistance in cylindrical semiconducton devices”, Journal of 
Applied Physics 31 (1960) 1490-1497.
[6] R. F. David, “Computerized thermal analysis of hybrid circuits”, IEEE Transactions Parts,
Hybrids 13(3) (1977) 283-290.
[7] G. N. Elison, “A review of a thermal analysis computer program for microelectronic 
devices, thermal management concepts in microelectronic packaging”, ISHM Technical 
Monograph Series (1984) 6984-003.
[8] A. Faghri, M. Buchko, “Experimental and numerical analysis of low temperature heat pipes 
with multiple heat sources”, ASME Journal of Heat Transfer 113 (1991) 728-734.
[9] V. W. Antoneti, M. M. Yovanovich, “Enhancement of thermal contact conductance by 
metallic coatings: theory and experiment”, ASME Journal of Heat Transfer 107 (1985) 
513-519.
[10] K. J. Negus, M. M. Yovanovich and J.V. Beck, “On the non-dimensionalization of
constriction resistance for semi-infinite heat flux tubes”, Transactions of ASME (1989) 111 
804-807.
[11] M. M. Yovanovich, J. R. Culham, and P. Teertstra, “Analytical modeling of spreading 
resistance in flux tubes, half spaces, and compound disks”, IEEE Transactions on 
Components, Packaging, and Manufacturing Technology-Part A, 21 (1998) 168-176.
[12] M. M. Yovanovich, Y. S. Muzychka, and J. R. Culham, “Spreading resistance of isoflux 
rectangles and strips on compound flux channel”, Journal of Thermophysics and Heat 
Transfer 13 (1999) 495-500.
[13] M. M. Yovanovich, “Thermal resistances of circular source on finite circular cylinder with
side and end cooling”, ASME Journal of Electronic Packing 125 (2003) 169-177.
[14] T. T. Lam, W. D. Fischer, and P. S. Cabral, “Analysis of thermal resistance of orthotropic 
materials used for heat spreaders”, Journal of  Thermophysics and HeatTransfer 18 (2)
(2004) 203-208.
[15] T. Ohbu, K. Kodani, N. Tada, T. Matsumoto, K. Kijima, S. Saito, “Study of power module 
package structures”, Integrated Power Packaging, 2000. IWIPP 2000. International 
Workshop on (2000) 46-50.
[16] J. W. Welch, T. T. Lam, W. K. Yeung, “Optimal sizing of rectangular isotropic thermal 
spreaders”, Advances in Electronic Packaging (1999) 883-889.
[17] S. Song, S. Lee, and V. Au, “Closed-form equation for thermal constriction/spreading
resistances with variable resistance boundary condition”, Proceedings of the 1994 IEPS 
Conference (1994), Atlanta, Georgia, 111-121.
[18] Y. H. Kim, S. Y. Kim, G. H. Rhee, “Evaluation of spreading thermal resistance for heat
generating multi-electronic components”, Thermal and Thermomechanical Phenomena in 
Electronics Systems, ITHERM June 2 (2006), San Diego, CA, 264.
[19] Y. S. Muzychka, Culham, and M. M. Yovanovich, “Thermal spreading resistance of
eccentric heat sources on rectangular flux channels”, ASME Journal of Electronic Packing 
125 (2003) 178-185.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2009/08/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 均溫板應用於多重熱源之設計與開發
計畫主持人: 康尚文
計畫編號: 98-2622-E-032-004-CC3 學門領域: 熱傳學、流體力學 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 均溫板應用於多重熱源之設計與開發
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
淡江大學 發明人
(創作人)
康尚文
技術說明
(中文) 均溫板乃利用兩相流沸騰快速移熱之科技，為熱管的衍生技術，目的在將元件所
產 
生之熱點(Hot Spot)快速且大面積移熱，具有較佳均溫性，可提升散熱鰭片之散
熱效率， 
增加電子元件或高功率LED 之壽命，亦可用於多種領域，可搭配各種電子與光電
系統 
設計散熱模組，達到高效率均溫、散熱之效果。本技術針對未來刀鋒式伺服器多
運算器與高瓦數LED 多點熱源的需求，進行適用於多熱源均溫板的開發與設計分
析，以使能順利將均溫板技術更進一步推展至多熱源應用端，同時輸出相關使用
規範，供業界設計參考。 
(英文)
產業別 電機及電子機械器材業
技術/產品應用範圍
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2010年 10 月 30 日至 11 月 2 日應邀赴大陸深圳於「12 屆全國熱管會議」擔任
特邀大会报告(Keynote Lecture) 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
