計畫名稱：以同儕網路為基礎之協同式行動網際網路存取研究
補助單位：行政院國家科學委員會
計畫編號：NSC 97-2628-E-001-007-MY3
執行時間：2008/8/1∼2011/7/31
Project Report
1 Overview
The last few years have seen an impressive growth in the number and variety of Internet applications.
One striking success in this area has been the World Wide Web (WWW), which has accelerated the
dissemination of information and knowledge by overcoming geographic boundaries. Wireless tech-
nologies represent another orthogonal area of growth in both wide area applications like 2.5G/3G and
local area applications like 802.11b/g and Bluetooth. As wireless technologies continue to extend into
every part of our working and living environments, a solution that can provide web surfing on the go is
becoming increasingly desirable.
Proper handling of mobility is the key to the success of mobile networking applications, as complete
coverage by wireless broadband (e.g., 2.5G/3G) is impossible. In fact, recent studies have reported that
intermittent network connections are inevitable for WLAN-based mobile users on a daily basis. Even
so, recent studies have showed that network capacity can be increased dramatically by exploiting node
mobility as a type of multi-user diversity, and it is now widely accepted that opportunistic ad hoc
connections can be useful for extending the coverage of wireless communications.
In this research project, we tackle the core issues of intermittently connected networks and investi-
gate effective solutions that can facilitate data dissemination and network applications in networks of
this kind. The problem is technically challenging, as it is impossible to predict the network connec-
tivity and thus design optimal solutions for data dissemination over networks of this kind. We have
conducted analysis, algorithm design, implementation, and testbed experiment to investigate the prob-
lems, and the three major contributions of this project are: 1) Layered Multiple Description Coding
(LMDC) for scalable data dissemination, 2) Known Vector (KV) for metadata exchanges, and 3) Col-
laborative Web Access (CWA) for Internet applications over challenged networks. We present our main
research results and the project outcomes in the following sections.
2 Main Research Results
2.1 Layered Multiple Description Coding (LMDC)
In this section, we propose the use of Layered Multiple Description Coding (LMDC) with unequal
erasure protection for effective data dissemination in opportunistic networks.
Layered MDC has been proposed as a means of combining Multiple Description Coding (MDC)
and Layered Coding for emerging multicast and peer-to-peer audio/video streaming applications. More
specifically, multiple descriptions are spread across multiple packets (or paths) via MDC, and transmit-
ted to a collection of clients, thereby reducing packet loss due to network congestion or the failure of
unreliable hosts. Moreover, by using Layered Coding, multimedia data can be encoded into different
quality levels, so that clients can play the best possible video/audio quality level according to their
capabilities, such as screen resolution and link bandwidth.
By combining MDC and Layered Coding, the Layered MDC scheme spreads the layered data across
multiple packets with multiple descriptions. Then, clients can play the layered data as long as the
required number of descriptions are received successfully. Of course, the more descriptions a client
receives, the better the reconstructed data quality will be. In practice, the Layered MDC scheme is
usually implemented in conjunction with Unequal Erasure Protection (UEP), which provides different
1
Table 1: Layered coding for web objects
Layers MIME types
1 text/{html,css,plain,javascript,xml}; application/javascript
2 Layer 1 + image/{gif,jpeg,png,bmp,x-icon}
3 Layer 2 + application/{pdf,octet-stream,x-shockwave-flash}
4 Layer 3 + video
5 Layer 4 + others
obtained by
bi =
S
ik
(3)
and
bpacket =
S
k
k∑
i=1
1
i
. (4)
Moreover, comparing with the Layered Coding scheme, the traffic overhead of the LMDC scheme is
boverhead = Nbpacket − S = S
k∑
i=2
1
i
. (5)
Since k is a positive integer, one can conclude that (a) boverhead = 0 when N = k = 1 (i.e., no LMDC);
and (b) boverhead > 0 otherwise.
2.1.2 LMDC for Web Surfing
In addition to video file transfer applications, we apply the LMDC scheme to web surfing applications in
opportunistic networks. More precisely, the LMDC scheme is applied to each MHTML document that
is a MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) HTML document enclosing one or more objects,
such as text, images, and videos. Unlike video transfer applications, the layered coding scheme encodes
MHTML documents by looking up a pre-determined codebook, rather than splitting messages into
equal-sized pieces. For instance, we present a codebook that is based on the MIME type of each web
object, as shown in Table 1.
In the codebook, Layer 1 web objects can be HTML documents (source codes only), cascading style
sheets (CSS), java script, or plain text. Layer 2 contains images files in addition to Layer 1 objects.
Layer 3 contains additional application objects (such as PDF files and flash games). Layer 4 contains
additional video objects. Layer 5 contains other objects (e.g., audio and unknown objects). Note that
the design of the codebook can be customized according to an object’s size, semantics, importance, and
other design choices. The approach proposed in this paper is based on the generic LMDC concept.
Similar to video transfer applications, the LMDC scheme first encodes each MHTML document
into k quality levels using layered coding. The layered document is then split among N packets (N ≥
k) with unequal erasure protection on each layered piece. More precisely, the i-th layered piece contains
the i-th layered document, excluding the (i− 1)th layered piece. Unequal erasure protection is applied
to each layered piece, such that the i-th piece is erasure coded with a replication factor equal to i and
split among N packets1 (i.e., the i-th layered document can be successfully reconstructed from any i of
the N packets). Note that, the i-th layered piece may be null if the original MHTML document does
not have the corresponding types of objects as specified in the codebook.
For example, using the codebook shown in Table 1, each MHTML document is encoded into 5
layers using LMDC (i.e., k = 5). Fig. 2 shows the quality of sample web documents in Layer 1, 2,
and 3. As shown in the figure, Layer 1 provides basic text-only descriptions at the lowest quality level,
1Note that the replication factor of each layered piece should be carefully configured according to the performance
requirements of the network system.
3
Algorithm 1 Summary vector generation of node x when it encounters node y in the Known Vector
scheme
Require: x 6= y
Ensure: SVx,y
SVx,y ← {}
for all messages Mk,x in the buffer of node x do
if y not in KVMk,x then
SVx,y ← SVx,y ∪ {y}
end if
end for
KVMk,i . After transmitting M ′k,i to node j, node i adds j to KVMk,i . When node j receives M ′k,i,
it saves it in the buffer as Mk,j with KVMk,j = KVM ′k,i ∪ {i}. Thus, after node i transmits M
′
2,i
to node j, KVM2,i becomes {a, b, j}, and node j saves M ′2,i as M2,j with KVM2,j = {a, b, i}. In
addition, after node j transmits M ′
3,j , KVM3,j becomes {a, i}, and node i saves M ′3,j as M3,i with
KVM3,i = {a, j}.
4. Update known vectors:
Node i can infer that node j already has the messages in the set SVi,j − RVj,i because node j is
supposed to request every message in SVi,j that it does not have in its storage. Therefore, node
i adds j to the known vector of every message in the set SVi,j − RVj,i. For example, node j can
infer that node i already has M1, and then KVM1,j becomes {m, i}.
Table 2 shows all possible scenarios for a message Mk residing on node i when the latter encounters
node j. The second column shows if the known vector of the copy of message Mk on node i (denoted
as KMk,i) contains j. The third column shows if node j also has message Mk (denoted as Mk,j). If
node j already has Mk,j , the fourth column shows whether the known vector of Mk,j contains i. The
fifth column explains the possible scenarios of message Mk.
2.3 Collaborative Web Access (CWA)
In this section, we present our collaborative web access solution, called CWA, for mobile Internet down-
load applications. The approach combines the strengths of offline-based, cache-based, and Infostation-
based approaches with peer-to-peer networking concepts. As a result, it is better able to cope with the
intermittent network connectivity caused by mobility, and can therefore provide better mobile Internet
services. We describe CWA in detail in the following sub-sections.
2.3.1 CWA Architecture
There are two types of participating peers in the CWA system: Gateway Peers (GP) and Vanilla Peers
(VP). GPs can connect to the Internet directly (by using, for example, GPRS, UMTS, WiMAX, or
WiFi/Bluetooth via Internet Access Points). VPs do not have Internet access, but they have local
wireless connection capabilities (by using, for example, WiFi, Bluetooth, or infrared via the ad hoc
connection mode). Note that a mobile peer may switch from the GP mode to the VP mode (and
vice versa) if it temporarily loses (or recovers) its Internet connection (e.g., when entering/leaving an
elevator or a tunnel).
In the CWA system, there are two scenarios where a peer, A, can issue an Internet download request:
if A is a GP, he can download the content himself immediately; otherwise, if A is a VP, he forwards
his request, with a replication factor f (i.e., f copies of the request are input to the network), to the
first f peers he meets in the network. Of course, the larger the value of f , the higher the number of
participating peers that will be aware of A’s request; however, the traffic and storage overhead also
increase linearly as f increases.
5
Figure 3: Illustration of the CWA scheme’s request process algorithm
(i.e., by the Indirect Forwarding algorithm); otherwise, he does nothing. Note that the In-
direct Forwarding phase is slightly different to the Direct Forwarding phase, since B may
only have a portion of the requested content (which depends on the underlying Collabora-
tive Forwarding algorithm); whereas all the content is forwarded in the Direct Forwarding
phase.
(b) If B does not have the content requested by A, he forwards A’s request to his next encoun-
tered peer, so long as the request has not been sent (from A to B) more than H times (i.e.,
by the Request Forwarding algorithm); otherwise, B does nothing.
In addition, the CWA system prioritizes the data transmissions such that Direct Forwarding has the
highest priority, followed by Request Forwarding. Then, the other types of transmissions are processed
on a first-come, first-served basis. The reason is that Direct Forwarding can complete a request-reply
session of Internet downloading, and thus reduce the service time required of the transmitted content.
Similarly, Request Forwarding propagates Internet download requests to the network, which increases
the probability that the requests will reach GPs and thus be cached in the network.
2.3.2 Collaborative Forwarding
In this study, we incorporate the HEC-PF algorithm to provide collaborative forwarding for the CWA
scheme. The HEC-PF scheme is based on the H-EC scheme, which tries to forward the second copy of
erasure coded blocks in sequence in H-EC’s Aggressive Forwarding phase until the end of the network
contact period. In contrast, the HEC-PF scheme implements the Probabilistic Forwarding algorithm
and only enters the Aggressive Forwarding phase if a newly encountered node has a higher likelihood
of successfully forwarding the message (called the delivery probability) to the destination peer than the
current peer. As a result, the HEC-PF scheme is better able to deliver a message successfully because
it tends to utilize relay node that have higher delivery probabilities.
The key issue for the HEC-PF scheme is how to estimate the delivery probability. Unlike the
PRoPHET scheme, the HEC-PF scheme considers the contact frequency in the history as well as the
contact volume, which represents the proportion of time that the two nodes were in contact in the
previous time window. More specifically, if there are K nodes in the network, we denote the i-th node
as Xi, the j-th node as Xj , the accumulated contact volume between the node pair Xi and Xj in the
last T time unit as tXi,Xj , and the delivery probability for the node pair Xi and Xj with a distance of at
most k-hops as P kXi,Xj . The one-hop delivery probability from the source node (XS) to the destination
7
the 79 Bluetooth channels. We propose two reduced DTMC models for Bluetooth networks for
the two frequency hopping kernels respectively. Using the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)
method, we evaluate our proposed model using both ordinary and adaptive frequency hopping
kernels, and demonstrate that it is accurate and representative of Bluetooth networks. Moreover,
the precision and simplicity of the proposed models make them ideal for providing representative
wireless error models of Bluetooth networks in future research.
2. Jyh-How Huang, Ying-Yu Chen, Yu-Te Huang, Po-Yen Lin, Yi-Chao Chen, Yi-Fu Lin, Shih-
Ching Yen, Polly Huang, and Ling-Jyh Chen. Rapid Prototyping for Wildlife and Ecological
Monitoring. IEEE Systems Journal, volume 4, number 2, pp. 198-209, June, 2010.
We demonstrated a wireless sensor network-based system, called EcoNet, for both prototyping
and long term wildlife tracking and ecological monitoring. EcoNet was inspired by the Yushan-
Net system, which tracks hikers’ movements by ex- ploiting network mobility. Compared with
existing approaches, which are either expensive and/or labor-intensive, the proposed solution is
more scalable and could better facilitate wildlife tracking and ecological monitoring. We con-
ducted a proof- of-concept experiment using two dogs and three cows at the Pasture Yen Family
property. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first WSN system that has successfully ob-
served inter/intra-species interactions in the real world. We show the biologists that a system
should first be prototyped to prove its correctness and demonstrate how to do it in real exper-
iments. We also discuss several deployment issues and provide potential solutions that could
improve the performance of the EcoNet system in real-world experiments.
3. Cheng-Yu Lin, Ling-Jyh Chen, Ying-Yu Chen, and Wang-Chien Lee. A Comfort Measuring Sys-
tem for Public Transportation Systems Using Participatory Phone Sensing. International Work-
shop on Sensing for App Phones (PhoneSense’10, in conjunction with ACM SenSys’10), Zurich,
Switzerland, 2010.
In this study, we propose a novel Comfort Measuring System, called CMS, for measuring the
comfort levels of rides on public trans- portation systems. The CMS system is comprised of three
parts: 1) data obtained through participatory phone sensing by volunteers who sense and score
their daily transportation experiences; 2) the authorized data of public transportation systems,
which provides the reliable, accurate, and detailed information about vehicles in the system;
and 3) a matching algorithm that mashes up the results of (1) and (2) for further analysis and
statistical purposes. Using the VProbe tool and the authorized bus data provided by the Taipei
e-bus system, we deployed the CMS system in Taipei City. During a 70-day experiment, we
collected 425 trajectories, labeled with vehicle identifiers, from 15 volunteers. Based on the
results, we make the following observations.
(a) The proposed trajectory matching algorithm can achieve a high hit rate of 93.7%, as long
as the contributed sensing data is correct (i.e., without GPS errors) and the trajectory of the
vehicle measured is included in the authorized data.
(b) In Taipei City’s public bus system, 4% of the bus rides are considered comfortable, 17% are
uncomfortable, and the rest are in between the two extremes.
(c) There is no significant difference in the comfort levels of bus services provided by different
bus agencies in Taipei City; and the comfort levels vary a lot among bus services operated
by the same agency.
(d) Light buses are more uncomfortable than low-floor and the standard (single-decker) buses.
4. Ling-Jyh Chen, Ying-Yu Chen, Kun-chan Lan, and Chien-Ming Chou. Localized Data Dis-
semination in Vehicular Sensing Networks. IEEE Vehicular Networking Conference (VNC’09),
Tokyo, Japan, 2009.
9
connections and spare storage in the network. Second, we extend the CWA scheme by incorpo-
rating a scalable coding algorithm, called Layered Multiple Description Coding (LMDC). The
extended scheme, which we call Scalable Collaborative Web Access (SCWA), allows the end
user to ‘preview’ the desired web content, even before the data has been completely transferred.
We perform a comprehensive set of simulations to evaluate the proposed schemes in various
scenarios. Based on the results, we draw the following conclusions.
(a) With Collaborative Forwarding, the proposed schemes can better ex-ploit the diversity
of network mobility achieve a better service time performance than the Mobile Hotspots
scheme.
(b) With Layered Multiple Description Coding (LMDC), the SCWA scheme can cope with link
outages better than the other schemes and provide scalable web surfing in opportunistic
network environments.
(c) Compared to traditional approaches, the traffic overhead of the pro- posed schemes is mod-
erate, and it can be further reduced by adjusting the encoding and collaborative forwarding
algorithms.
(d) Therefore, the results demonstrate that the proposed scheme provides a better web surfing
service than traditional schemes, and thus facilitates more effective web surfing on the go.
8. Li-Ping Tung, Yi-Chao Chen, Kun-chan Lan, and Ling-Jyh Chen. MetroNet: A Disruption-
Tolerant Approach for Mobile Downloads on Metro Systems. Submitted to IEEE Transactions
on Parallel and Distributed Systems. (under revision)
In this study, we focus on providing a reliable mobile Internet download service on metro sys-
tems. Unlike conventional vehicular networks, metro systems have permanent routes, usually
operate on precise schedules, and maintain good punctuality. To provide mobile users on metro
systems with a good network experience, we propose a novel solution called MetroNet, which
leverages the strengths of the mobile hotspot approach and the concept of disruption-tolerant net-
works. More specifically, MetroNet exploits the precise schedules of metro systems to pre-fetch
data and facilitate data transmission, even if an end-to-end path between the source and the des-
tination does not exist contemporaneously. We also propose a Call Admission Control algorithm
to improve the QoS of Internet services provided by MetroNet.
To evaluate MetroNet, we conduct a comprehensive set of simulations with three scheduling
algorithms, namely, the proposed CAC algorithm, the First-Come-First-Serve (FCFS) algorithm,
and the Least-First (LF) algorithm, in two real-world scenarios (i.e., the Taipei MRT system
and the Atlanta MARTA system). The simulation results demonstrate that the CAC algorithm
outperforms the FCFS and LF algorithms in terms of the system gain, the number of accepted
requests, and the session times in all test cases. The contribution of this study is three-fold:
(a) We propose a novel solution, called MetroNet, to facilitate mobile Internet downloads on
metro systems with intermittent Internet connectivity. The system combines the strengths
of the mobile hotspot approach and the concept of disruption-tolerant networks. As a result,
it is better able to cope with the intermittent Internet connectivity caused by mobility and
therefore provides a more reliable mobile download service than existing solutions.
(b) Via simulations, we show that the CAC algorithm provides better Quality of Service for
mobile users than the FCFS and LF algorithms.
(c) The proposed MetroNet solution is simple and generalizable to other metro systems as long
as the schedules are known and the services maintain good punctuality.
11
出席國際學術會議心得報告  
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC97-2628-E-001-007-MY3 
計畫名稱 以同儕網路為基礎之協同式行動網際網路存取研究  
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
林鉦育 
中央研究院資訊科技創新研究中心	 專任研究助理 
會議時間地點 2011年4月11日~2011年4月14日, 大陸上海 
會議名稱 The 30th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications 
發表論文題目 TPE-CMS: A Comfort Measuring System for Public Bus Service in Taipei City 
 
1. 論文摘要 
We demonstrate a Comfort Measuring System (CMS) for public transportation systems in 
Taipei city, called TPE-CMS. TPE-CMS exploits the GPS and G-sensor of modern smart 
phones to measure the comfort level of vehicle rides. Then, it mashes up the sensed data 
with the authorized data of the public transportation system, and provides a detailed 
comfort statistics as a value added service. We have deployed TPE-CMS to measure the 
comfort levels of public bus services in Taipei city since March 2010. Based on the 
user-input data, we show that the system is capable of ranking the comfort levels of the 
bus services of different bus attributes, and monitoring the comfort levels of the public 
transportation system overall. In addition, the system is scalable without the cost of 
deploying a sensing infrastructure, and we believe that it has the potential to provide a 
durable and large-scale comfort measuring service for public transportation systems. 
 
2. 報告內容  
 
IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications (IEEE Infocom)為IEEE組
織所舉辦之一項頗具歷史與規模的國際學術會議，今年於中國上海國際會議中心舉
辦。本會議歷年來之論文錄取率皆在20%以下，其會議論文的品質與影響性，已廣受
相關領域研究學者之高度推崇與重視。本會議之議題主要包含在下一代網路中P2P、
無線網路、無線感測網路、網路偵測與量測、網路安全、行動網路、多媒體網路以及
其它新興的議題。 
 
本屆IEEE Infocom於今年共計有超過1800篇的論文投稿，每篇論文皆經過至少三位該
Ling-Jyh Chen <cclljj@gmail.com>
[INFOCOM-Demo/Posters 2011] Your paper 'TPE-CMS: A
Comfort Measuring System for Public Bus Service in
Taipei City'
EDAS <help@edas-help.com> Wed, Mar 16, 2011 at 8:30 AM
To: Cheng-Yu Lin <ntuaha@gmail.com>
Cc: Ling-Jyh Chen <cclljj@iis.sinica.edu.tw>
Dear Cheng-Yu Lin:
Congratulations! Your Live/Video Demonstration paper has been accepted for presentation at INFOCOM-
Demo/Posters 2011. Below are some instructions pertaining to your accepted Live/Video Demonstration
paper.
1.REGISTER for Infocom 2011 at http://www.ieee-infocom.org/registration.html.
At least one author must register and present each accepted Live/Video Demonstration paper at the
Demo/Posters session.
2. PREPARE a succinct clear presentation. Practice thoroughly in advance and make sure that your
presentation communicates most important aspects of the work. Ensure that you request for any
additional/special resource well in advance to give enough time for the organizers. It is possible that your
request for additional/special resources may not be fulfilled.
If you have any questions please email the demo Chair avinash@bloomu.edu.
The program of INFOCOM-Demo/Posters 2011 will be posted on the website within the next few day. Check
http://www.ieee-infocom.org/ for travel and visa related information.
We look forward to seeing you in Shanghai, China.
Sincerely,
Avinash Srinivasan
Demo/Posters Chair
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 2  2.5  3  3.5  4  4.5  5  5.5  6
CD
F
Comfort Index
Fig. 1. The CDF distribution of the comfort index
among the collected trajectories
 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
agency 1
agency 2
agency 3
agency 4
agency 5
agency 6
agency 7
agency 8
agency 9
agency 10
agency 11
agency 12
Co
m
fo
rt 
In
de
x
Fig. 2. The mean comfort index (± one standard
deviation) with different bus agencies
 1
 2
 3
 4
 5
 6
standard
light
low-floor
Co
m
fo
rt 
In
de
x
Fig. 3. The mean comfort index (± one standard
deviation) with different bus types
Fig. 4. The snapshot of the TPE-CMS system (http://VProbe.org/TPE-CMS/)
the matched bus in the authorized data and manipulates
the statistics accordingly.
III. PRELIMINARY RESULTS
We deployed the CMS system in Taipei City in March 2010.
Figure 4 shows a snapshot of the deployed system, i.e., TPE-
CMS. Since then, we have collected 732 trajectories from 32
distinct volunteers. The trajectories covers three bus types (i.e.,
low-floor buses, light buses, and standard single-decker buses),
380 distinct buses, 128 routes, and 12 operating agencies.
From the results shown in Figure 1, we observe that, among
the collected trajectories, 10% of them were below 3.0 (which
is considered comfortable), 15% of them were above 5.0
(which is considered uncomfortable), and the rest were in
between the two extremes [9]. Moreover, the results in Figure
2 show that the trajectories of bus agency 9 are relatively
more uncomfortable than those of the other agencies, while
the trajectories of bus agencies 3 and 10 are more comfortable.
The results in Figure 3 also show that the trips on light
buses are more uncomfortable than those on low-floor buses
and standard buses. The reason is that the light buses serve
the areas where the routes are usually winding and the roads
may not be in good condition. Moreover, we observe that the
trajectories of low-floor buses and standard buses have similar
comfort index values, which is counterintuitive to recent
reports [8]. This is because the low-floor buses serve urban
areas; thus, it is inevitable that they will stop more frequently
to allow passengers to board/disembark. Consequently, there
are no significant differences in the comfort indexes of the
trajectories of low-floor and standard buses.
IV. CONCLUSION
We have presented TPE-CMS, the deployment of a Comfort
Measuring System (CMS) for public transportation systems
in Taipei city. Using real data collected from TPE-CMS, we
show that only 15% of bus rides in Taipei are considered un-
comfortable, and there are no significant differences between
different bus agencies. We also find that the comfort level
varies a lot among the bus services provided by the same
agency, and smaller buses are the least comfortable vehicles.
Work on analyzing other factors that affect comfort levels is
ongoing (e.g., road conditions, drivers’ behavior, and traffic
congestion). We wish to report the results in the near future.
REFERENCES
[1] Comfort index table (page 15).
http://yctrtrc.ncku.edu.tw/site2/ocwCoursePPT/133trk-
slide-2009-III-3.ppt.
[2] Taipei e-bus system. http://www.e-
bus.taipei.gov.tw/index.htm.
[3] VProbe: sensing and probing your driving experience.
http://vprobe.org/.
[4] M. Cantwell, B. Caulfield, and M. O’Mahony. Examining
the Factors that Impact Public Transport Commuting Sat-
isfaction. Journal of Public Transportation, 12(2):1–21,
2009.
[5] J. Disney. Competing through quality in transport services.
Managing Service Quality, 8(2):112–118, 1998.
[6] L. Eboli and G. Mazzulla. A New Customer Satisfaction
Index for Evaluating Transit Service Quality. Journal of
Public Transportation, 12:21–37, 2009.
[7] B. Edvardsson. Causes of customer dissatisfaction -
Studies of public transport by the critical-incident method.
Managing Service Quality, 8(3):189–197, 1998.
[8] P. Eriksson and O. Friberg. Ride comfort optimization of
a city bus. Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization,
20:67–75, 2000.
[9] ISO. ISO 2631-1-1997: Mechanical vibration and shock
— Evaluation of human exposure to whole-body vibra-
tion —. International Organization for Standardization,
Geneva, Switzerland, 1997.
我們利用4/4-9正值台灣清明連假的期間訪問合作對象Dr. Mario Gerla及其實驗
室。在4/5第一天的拜訪中，我們和Dr. Mario Gerla進行將近兩小時的單獨討論，
針對兩年多來的研究成果，討論未來論文發表與繼續合作的規劃，同時對於合作
中一些技術細節與困難，也一一予以記錄，作為未來繼續努力與改進的方向。而
在下午的時段，則安排一場專題演講，由我們介紹最近的研究成果，以及目前同
時進行中之手機感測計畫。由於聽眾多數是Dr. Gerla的學生，研究興趣與我們十
分相似，因此這場演講的聽眾反應十分踴躍，互動過程中也討論到許多技術細節。 
 
4/6的行程，除了與Dr. Gerla實驗室的研究生進行一對一訪談外，也拜訪了另一位
資訊系教授Dr. M.Y. Sanadidi。由於Dr. Sanadidi在前一年度表達了對我們正在研
究中的human computation高度的興趣，因此我們也趁此行與Dr. Sanadidi繼續對相
關的議題進行討論。由於Dr. Sanadidi是排隊理論的權威學者，我們特別針對目前
進行中的群眾外包的數學模型議題，與其進行深入的討論，Dr. Sanadidi對於我們
的觀點十分驚喜，並且也認同可以將排隊理論應用於此類系統的數學架構，我們
在短短兩小時的時間內，一同設計了此數學模型的架構，並約定好未來繼續朝此
方向繼續討論與合作。 
 
4/7的行程，由於Dr. Gerla臨時有其他重要會議，因此由其博士後研究員Dr. 
Giovanni Pau負責介紹CVeT平台目前的研發與使用狀況，同時也與Dr. Mario 
Gerla實驗室中其他尚未晤談的研究生進行討論，並且與UCLA資訊及電機系目前
仍就學中的博士班臺灣學生一同午餐，並交換彼此留學生活與研究方法的經驗。 
 
本次有幸至美國加州大學洛杉磯分校進行學術訪問，本人特別感謝Dr. Mario 
Gerla及Dr. M. Y. Sanadidi的熱情邀請與接待，以及國科會的支持與補助。雖然此
行十分忙碌，但是在各項學術交流的收獲上卻是遠遠大於原先預期的結果。本人
在接下來的日子中，當竭盡所能，將此行所獲得之寶貴經驗一一展現在日後的研
究與國際合作上，企望能在不久的將來，能有更多更加豐盛的成果。 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳伶志 計畫編號：97-2628-E-001-007-MY3 
計畫名稱：以同儕網路為基礎之協同式行動網際網路存取研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 3 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
