行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
超純量架構應用於嵌入式微處理器之低電耗暫存器檔案設計 
NSC Project Reports 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-182-020 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：謝萬雲 長庚大學資訊工程學系 
 
1.中文摘要 
近年來，隨著嵌入式系統應用的複雜化，
高效能的微處理器架構越來越重要。但是傳統高
效能微處理器的暫存器檔案架構，其電耗和複雜
度皆相當高。多項研究指出多重暫存器檔案架構
是解決上述問題較可行的方法之一。本計劃中，
首先分析多重暫存器檔案的電耗來源，再分別針
對不同架構(微處理器是否具備暫存器重新命名
機制)，以temporary values的存取行為作為暫存
器指派的依據。實驗結果顯示，不具有暫存器重
新命名機制的微處理器，平均可以降低60%的電
耗，而效能損失不會多於2%。具有暫存器重新
命名機制的微處理器，平均可以降低85%的電
耗，而效能損失不會多於10%。本研究結果顯示，
在不同架構的微處理器上，多重暫存器檔案可以
有效的達到省電效果。 
關鍵詞：多重暫存器檔案架構、嵌入式處理器 
 
英文摘要 
 In recent years, high-end 
embedded-processor architecture has become more 
and more important, as the embedded or 
ubiquitous applications develop complexly. In 
conventional processors, energy consumption or 
the hardware area of the register-file plays a very 
significant role. Many previous studies have 
pointed out that the Multi-Banked Register File 
(MBRF) architecture would be a feasible solution 
to apply those high-performance architecture, e.g., 
superscalar, to the embedded processors. In this 
project，first analyze the major leakage sources in 
such architecture. Then we apply the proposed 
analysis mechanism to two different kinds of 
processors, of which one equips with register 
renaming, and the other’s not. Based on that 
analysis results, we propose some 
register-assignment strategies, and see how these 
strategies affect power consumption and 
performance penalty. For a MBRF architecture 
with four banks, simulation results show that, in 
high-end embedded-processor without renaming 
mechanism, our approach reduces 60% energy 
consumption while performance lose can be 
limited by less than 2%. In high-end 
embedded-processor with renaming mechanism, 
our approach reduces 85% energy consumption 
while performance lose can be limited by less than 
10%. In this project results, multi-bank register file 
can effective achieve power saving in different 
processor architecture. 
Keyword：Multi-bank register file architecture、
embedded-processor 
 
2. Introduction 
A multi-banked register file (MBRF) partitions a 
monolithic register file into several identical, 
smaller register files, and each has fewer numbers 
of registers and read/write ports [1] [2]. In such 
banked architecture, temporary values are widely 
distributed throughout banks, and accesses to these 
values thus can be distributed and parallelized. By 
this feature, the demand of port number in each 
bank can be effectively reduced, as well as the chip 
area and energy consumption. So, the 
multi-banked register file is suitable for multi-issue 
processors because it provides wide bandwidth for 
value accesses but requires less hardware 
complexity, compared with a monolithic register 
file. However, if we apply the MBRF architecture 
to some multi-issue “embedded” processors, its 
value-distributed accesses will cause that each 
bank has to standby for each clock cycle. This 
results in serious leakage power because not 
always all banks need to be accessed. Fig. 1 shows 
the utilization of a multi-banked register file when 
applied to a 4-issue processor. This means that, on 
average, more than 80% execution time a register 
bank is idle, and this becomes the major source of 
leakage power. 
use the most straightforward method: searching 
destination register of each ROB entry to find the 
latest value-defined instruction. If the latest 
value-defined entry is found then we mark it. The 
marking interval starts from the rename stage to 
the end of the writeback stage. To support above 
marking, we add one bit called “R” (Redefine)-bit 
in each ROB entry and the “R” field will be set to 
1 if the value-redefined instruction appear in ROB. 
When an instruction enters the rename stage, the 
process of value marking is shown in Figure 3. 
When an instruction enters the rename stage, both 
opcode and source operands have been decoded. 
The processor will take destination register name 
to search the ROB to find the latest value-defined 
entry from the ROB tail to the ROB head. If the 
latest value-defined entry is found in ROB then we 
set R-bit of the found entry to 1. It denotes the 
destination register of the marked entry stored a 
short-lived value. Repeat above process until 
instructions enter the writeback stage. 
 
Fig. 3. Simplify short-lived marking process at 
Rename stage 
 
3.3 Physical-register allocation 
 
The most important issue for physical register 
allocation is how many registers should we 
allocate for short-lived values. In [6], there are 
about 70% to 90% of values belong to short lived 
value. Our design based on 3:1 ratio to allocate 
register banks for short-lived and non-short-lived 
value, respectively. If a value has been identified 
to be a short-lived one, it will be allocated a 
physical register from free list 0 until it run out of 
free physical register. If a free list runs out of 
physical register, processor 
 
3.4 Reducing Performance Loss 
 
The physical register allocation policy of the 
project design will result high access conflicts. The 
major access conflicts come from write conflicts. 
Because register allocation policy for short-lived 
values almost the same with vertical distributed 
register renaming, it will result that the utilization 
of bank 0 is higher than the other banks. In order to 
resolve this problem, the approach must reduce 
write conflicts of register bank and choose a 
suitable write port allocation. We design 
heterogeneous port on MBRF. The MBRF allocate 
write ports 2, 1, 1 and 1 for register bank 0 to 
register bank 3. 
 
3.5 Register-bank power controller 
 
3.5.1 Read detection logic: The register read 
detection logic to detect source operands that 
cannot obtain their values form ROB. At the 
decode stage, we take Rs and Rt to search the 
mapping table and the ROB simultaneously. When 
the instruction enters the rename stage, the register 
read detection circuit will send DVS control 
signals to DVS circuit based on physical register. 
The register read detection circuit will be activated 
if non match signal is true (i.e., source operands 
cannot be found in ROB).  
3.5.2 Write detection logic: The gray blocks 
denote”commit candidates”, and these candidates 
wait for commit. The register write detection logic 
is to decode which register banks should be 
switched to the active mode. If ready bit of ROB 
entry is set to 0 then this entry’s write requests will 
be discard. The output signals of 1 denote the bank 
must switch to the active mode, and 0 to the 
drowsy mode.  
3.5.3 DVS circuit: The voltage controller controls 
the supply voltages to each bank according to the 
signals triggered by the register-access detection, 
described above. The voltage controller support 
two voltage levels: 1 Volts (active mode) and 0.3 
Volts (drowsy mode), as defined in [3]. Figure 4 
shows the implementation of the voltage controller. 
The controller has two parts. First, access signals 
(RtWL, RsWL, RdWL) will be decoded. Second, 
if one of these signals for a bank is being set, then 
the power line of that bank will change voltage 
level. For the banks without trigger from any 
access-signals, they will stay in the drowsy mode 
Fig. 4. Voltage controller for multi-banked register  
file 
 
 
 
[4], changing the supply voltages from one mode 
to the other mode requires one-cycle delay. For 
register-read detection, therefore, an operand-read 
signal should pass to the voltage controller one 
cycle ahead of the Read-operand stage; that is, at 
the Decode/issue stage. Similarly, a register-write 
signal should be detected before the commit stage; 
that is, at the WB stage. 
 
 Fig. 5.  the timing of detecting register-access 
signals 
 
4.5.2 DVS circuit: The design approach is follow 
figure 4. 
 
5. Experiment Results 
 
5.1 Power-Aware Register Assignment with 
Renaming 
Figure 6 shows the register file power 
consumption between different register 
allocation policies. We found that the power 
consumption of S3N1 allocate policy have 
lowest power consumption in average case. It 
is because the allocation policy of HRR, S2N2, 
and S1N3 will cause short-lived values mixed 
with non-short-lived values, and the 
short-lived values will write value twice in a 
short period. It will lower the probability of 
register bank which stored non-short-lived 
values enter the drowsy mode. The register 
allocation policy of S3N1 was not most energy 
efficient allocation policy for every program. 
It is because the characteristic of each program 
are different, and it’s impossible to find a most 
energy efficient renaming policy for every 
program. 
 
Fig. 6. Power consumption of RF 
 
5.2 Power-Aware Register Assignment without 
Renaming 
 
Figure 7 shows the energy consumption for the 
two register assignment approaches, compared 
with the baseline register-file without DVS. After 
counting up the state transition energy, on average, 
the power-aware register assignment outperforms 
the horizontal register assignment about 11%. This 
shows that value distribution in four banks indeed 
affects the utilization of register file. By applying 
the DVS circuit to the register file, the leakage 
energy during those idle cycles can be effectively 
reduced 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
bzip2 gzip gcc mcf parser twolf vortex art mesa average
En
erg
y c
on
su
mp
tio
n
4-bank+HRA
4-bank+HRA+DVS
4-bank+PRA+DVS
 
Fig. 7. Energy consumption of two register 
assignments on the 4- bank register file 
 
Reference： 
 
[1] R. Balasubramonian, et al., “Reducing the 
Complexity of the Register File in Dynamic 
Superscalar Processor,” Proc. 34th 
Microarchitecture (MICRO-34), pp. 237-248, 
2001.  
[2] J.H. Tseng, et al., “Banked Multiported 
Register files for High-Frequency Superscalar 
Microprocessors,” Proc. the 30th ISCA, 
pp.62-71, June 2003.  
[3] K. Fkautner et al., “Drowsy Caches: Simple 
Techniques for Reducing Leakage Power,” 
Proc. the 29th ISCA, pp. 148-157, May 2002  
[4] Nam Sung Kim, et al., “Circuit and 
Microarchitectural Techniques for Reducing. 
Cache Leakage Power,” IEEE Transactions on 
VLSI, pp. 167-184, Feb 2004. 
[5] Teresa Monreal, V´ıctor Vi˜nals, Jos´e 
Gonz´alez, Antonio Gonz´alez,Mateo Valero, 
“Late Allocation and Early Release of Physical 
Registers,” IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
COMPUTERS, VOL. 53, NO. 10, OCTOBER 
2004 
[6] Luis A. Lozano C. and Guang R. 
Gao,”Exploiting Short-Lived Variables in 
Superscalar Processors,” MICRO-28, 1995 
 
 
 
 
 
出席 Worldcomp’07-ESA’07 國際會議心得報告 
系所: 資訊工程系      職稱: 助理教授 
姓名: 謝萬雲 
會議名稱 : The 2007 International Conference on Embedded Systems and 
Applications 
會議期間：2007/6/25~2007/6/28 
會議地點：Las Vegas Nevada, USA 
1. 前言 
WORLDCOMP 是 Computer Science 領域方面，較大的年會組織之一。每年皆集結超過十
五個以上的 Workshops 與 Conferences 共同舉辦，因此能吸引多數相關研究領域的學者與業
界人士與會。本人的研究領域與其中的 ESA’07 (2007 Intl. Conf. on Embedded Systems and 
Applications)與 ERSA07 (2007 Intl. Conf. on Engineering of Reconfigurable Systems and 
Algorithms)相關，因此參加的會議活動也以這兩項研討會為主。 
Embedded System 在學術界的發展非常快速，其牽涉的研究領域也非常廣泛，舉凡嵌入式
計算、分散式計算、無線通訊、多媒體計算等等相關議題皆涵蓋其中。其應用層面也觸及
生活中的各項產品，例如 Wearable computer、Pocket PC、IA 家電等等。本次研討會的主旨
即在於提供一發表研究與公開討論的平台，透過學術界與業界人士的交流與對談，讓與會人
士掌握該領域未來的前瞻發展。 
除了參與研討會的各項活動外，本人也在 ESA’07 會中發表最新的研究論文，題目是 
“Power-Aware Register Renaming for Multi-Banked Register Files”。ESA’07 的論文接受率約
29%，因此能獲邀參加會議並發表論文甚感榮幸。同時，藉由現場與專家的問答與討論，收
穫頗多。本心得報告將分下列各節詳述此行的心得與收穫：第 2 節摘要說明 Keynote Speech
的重點，第 3 節摘要說明參與的 Technical Sessions 並加以討論，第四節是總結心得說明，最
後詳列攜回資料名稱與內容。 
 
2. Keynote Speech 
 本次研討會邀請超過十位的專家擔任 keynote speakers。茲將重要者摘錄如下： 
(1) Simultaneous Clustering and Modeling for Large Scale Data Mining Applications 
Speaker: Prof. Joydeep Ghosh, Schlumberger Distinguished Centennial Chair Professor 
    FPGAs(Field Programmable Gate Arrays)由於具有可重編程化、程式化等特性，非常適
合用來實作諸如浮點數運算，數位訊號處理等較複雜的科學計算應用。現今已有多種 FPGA
的晶片配合嵌入式 CPU，在較高階的平台上扮演加速晶片的角色。在這場 keynote 中，演講
者提出了多種複雜的浮點數計算型態，配合其發展的最佳化演算法，將 FPGA 編程為較有效
率的計算晶片。演講者並展示此類晶片與現今常用的嵌入式晶片做一比較，說明其效能與實
用性方面的優勢。 
 
(4) Robust Resource Allocation for Heterogeneous Parallel and Distributed Computing Systems 
Speaker: Prof. H. J. Siegel, Abell Endowed Chair 
    在一個異質且分散式的系統中，不同機器(或機器人)透過無線網路相連接，且各自提供
不同的計算能力來執行應用程式。在這種系統中，每台機器被分配執行的工作不同，效能需
求不同，完成工作的時間也不同，同時工作之間也可能存有相依性。因此系統資源，包括網
路頻寬，記憶體空間，伺服時間等系統參數的設定，就必須考慮環境變數的變異性。最直覺
的作法就是利用隨機統計的方式模型化環境變數，再利用該模型的邊際條件求得資源配置的
可允許範圍。Speaker 的重點就是提出兩類模型來說明一個異質分散系統如何有效配置系統
資源。 
 
(5) Real-Time Image and Video Processing: From Research to Reality 
Speakers: Prof. Nasser Kehtarnavaz & Mr. Mark Gamadia, University of Texas at Dallas 
Speaker 在這場 keynote 的重點是說明在一個資源有限的硬體系統中，如何簡化演算法
以實作影像與視訊處理計算(DSP)。在 speaker 的演講中，列舉了相關的範例，說明其在不
同的參數設定下，滿足 QoS 與否的情形。整場演說的子題共有五項： 
(i) Introductory concepts to real-time image and video processing  
(ii) Algorithmic approaches (algorithm simplification strategies)  
(iii) Hardware platforms (hardware architectures for image and video processing)  
(iv)Software tools (software optimization strategies)  
(v)Roadmap  
 
3. Technical Sessions 
(1) ESA’07 共分為 4 個 Session 的主題： 
Algorithms and Novel Applications 
4. 攜回資料 
1. WORLDCOMP’07 Total Conference Programs (with CD) 
2. Proceedings of the 2007 International Conference on Embedded Systems and 
Applications 
3. Proceedings of the 2007 International Conference on Engineering of Reconfigurable   
Systems and Algorithms 
 
 2
後詳列攜回資料名稱與內容。 
 
2. Keynote Speech 
 本次研討會邀請超過十位的專家擔任 keynote speakers。茲將重要者摘錄如下： 
(1) Simultaneous Clustering and Modeling for Large Scale Data Mining Applications 
Speaker: Prof. Joydeep Ghosh, Schlumberger Distinguished Centennial Chair Professor 
The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas, USA 
    這場 Keynote 的重點主要在於說明在一些較大規模的資料倉儲系統中，資料特性範圍廣
大，因此需要借重高效能的資料叢集與塑模方法來進行資料探勘。有別於傳統利用單一資料
模型進行資料探勘的方式，speaker 利用”multi-modal”的模型，將資料作較有效率的叢集化，
並利用 micor-array data analysis 與 customer-product data 的範例說明其實用性。從這場 keynote
可學習到最新的資料探勘塑模技術。 
 
(2) Challenges in Consumer Electronics for 21st Century 
Speaker: Steve Leibson ,Tensilica, Inc. 
 個人認為本場 keynote 應是全場較為精采的演講之一。Speaker 從業界的角度，說明消費
性電子產品的過去、現在、與未來發展。過去的消費性電子產品，多強調在於個人單機式的
娛樂應用。而經由無線網路與多媒體資料處理技術的發展，現今的消費性電子產品則具備了
各式各樣且多用途的型態，在無形中影響每個人的生活作息。而未來的消費性電子產品則將
往更難以想像的方向發展，包括利用更密集的無線寬頻網路將人與人之間的生活與知識相連
結、利用更先進的製程技術生產微型化、可攜式且低耗電的數位晶片處理影像聲音等媒體資
料。在這些發展的背後，需要更精緻的理論與技術，結合使用者的生活經驗，來開發高品質
周邊元件與模組以實現產品，尤其需要顧及成本方能推廣應用。 
 在說明這些發展趨勢的過程中，speaker 也從技術開發的角度，說明多項未來消費性電子
產品的可行性。例如他從摩爾定律開始，介紹微處理機的演進，談到目前多核心微處理機的
 4
可允許範圍。Speaker 的重點就是提出兩類模型來說明一個異質分散系統如何有效配置系統
資源。 
 
(5) Real-Time Image and Video Processing: From Research to Reality 
Speakers: Prof. Nasser Kehtarnavaz & Mr. Mark Gamadia, University of Texas at Dallas 
Speaker 在這場 keynote 的重點是說明在一個資源有限的硬體系統中，如何簡化演算法
以實作影像與視訊處理計算(DSP)。在 speaker 的演講中，列舉了相關的範例，說明其在不同
的參數設定下，滿足 QoS 與否的情形。整場演說的子題共有五項： 
(i) Introductory concepts to real-time image and video processing  
(ii) Algorithmic approaches (algorithm simplification strategies)  
(iii) Hardware platforms (hardware architectures for image and video processing)  
(iv)Software tools (software optimization strategies)  
(v)Roadmap  
 
3. Technical Sessions 
(1) ESA’07 共分為 4 個 Session 的主題： 
Algorithms and Novel Applications 
Software Systems Tools + Languages + Middleware Software 
Real-Time Systems + Tools and Devices + Applications 
Power efficiency and Related Issues 
 
每一主題選出約 9~10 篇論文, 本人發表的論文即屬於第 4 主題。在該主題中, 可以發現
韓國在嵌入式系統單晶片的發展上非常快速。例如 Samsung Advanced Institute of 
Technology, Seoul R&D Center 等單位皆發表其在 DSP 計算上研發設計的嵌入式微處理機
