Abstract 
 In this paper we present some performance comparisons of several unsupervised clustering 
techniques include: self-organizing map (SOM), fuzzy c-mean (FCM) and hierarchical clustering, 
and they are employed to analyze the ovarian cancer microarray data of. The data includes 15 
samples with 9,600 genes and these samples include 5 benign ovarian tumors (OVT), 1 
borderline ovarian malignancy (OVTT), 4 ovarian cancers at stage I (OVCAI), and 5 ovarian 
cancers at stage III (OVCAIII). A regression analysis is used to reduce the dimension and get 
9600 residuals of genes. The genes with 100 largest and 100 smallest residual are picked to 
analyze using analysis of variance (ANOVA). After the ANOVA 12 gene markers are got and can 
be used to distinct OVT, OVTT, OVCAI and OVCAIII samples. The 12 gene markers are 
performed clustering by the SOM, FCM and hierarchical clustering techniques and to compare 
the results between these clustering techniques. Our experimental results show that the 
hierarchical clustering can get best performance of clustering and users do not need to define the 
number of clusters. 
Keywords: Clustering, self-organizing map, fuzzy c-mean, hierarchical clustering, analysis of 
variance, ovarian cancer, microarray data, gene marker. 
1. Introduction 
Ovarian cancer is the second most common gynecological cancer and is the leading cause of 
death from gynecological cancers, except breast cancer, with an incidence rate of about 15 per 
100,000 women in western countries [1]. Ovarian tumors are classified as epithelial tumors, 
which arise from the coelomic epithelium and constitute 80-90% of all cases, or as tumors of 
germ cell or sex cord/stromal cells [2]. The cause of epithelial ovarian carcinoma is unknown. 
The incidence of ovarian cancer is highest in industrialized countries and is lowest in developing 
countries. The low survival rate is related to the high proportion of women who have spread of 
disease beyond the ovaries at diagnosis. Furthermore, ovarian cancer tends to recur, even in 
patients who achieve a complete response to primary treatment. 
There have been attempts to screen women without symptoms to achieve early detection of 
ovarian cancer; measurement of serum CA125 antibody concentrations and abdominal or 
transvaginal ultrasonography have been done in postmenopausal women [3]. However, the low 
sensitivity and positive predictive value of such screening is a cause for concern. Thus, CA125 is 
thought to be robust only in following the response or progression of the disease, but not as a 
diagnostic or prognostic marker [4]. Screening for molecular markers by specific antibodies is 
currently in progress. Ovarian carcinoma-associated antigen (OCA) is isolated from 
ovarian-cancer patients. NB/70K is also tested for useful marker. However, both OCA and 
NB/70K are not as sensitive and specific as CA125. 
 Microarray is one of the most exciting genomic tools that obtain genomic information in a 
comparative and parallel way. It was expected that gene expression on genomic scale can be 
accessed in days. In other words, genes abnormally regulated can be fished out in a week or so. 
inconsistent results. Without properly designed control, it will be dangerous to compare datasets 
generated from different days, not to mention datasets come from different laboratories. 
Unfortunately, errors or bias occurred before data analyses are not realized by bioinformatics 
group. 
To facilitate the communication between various microarray results, a commonly accepted 
standard procedure for generating microarray datasets, MIAME (Minimum information about a 
microarray experiment,) was announced. MIAME represents scientists’ efforts to alleviate the 
chaos of microarray datasets flooded on the web. (MIAME web site: 
http://www.mged.org/Workgroups/MIAME/miame.html) 
In general, microarray datasets generated from different laboratories are not comparable. 
Different technicians frequently produce different results within the same lab. Even same 
operator generates datasets with significant difference from batch to batch. Without proper quality 
control, datasets exhibit wild diversities and accumulation of datasets into a useful databank will 
become endless task. Submitting tissues to commercial company and retrieve microarray data is 
expensive and likely to fail. Thus, it is the key to operate from tissue sample collection, 
microarray spotting, to hybridization in a specific setup and under strict operation procedures. 
 Microarray studies had been initiated to search for early expressed molecular marker of 
ovarian cancers. However, the significant obstacle in the quest for an early tumor marker is the 
availability of normal and early malignant ovarian tissue. The majority of ovarian cancers are of 
epithelial origin arising from thin layer of ovarian surface. It is very difficult to obtain such tissue 
in any significant quantity. 
to transform the data into a valid form same as the input data of neural network and fuzzy system. 
Because of 9600 genes are too many to perform clustering or unsupervised classification. This 
paper presents a better method to find the oncogenes by analyzing microarray.  
The simplest analysis is to estimate the Ch1/Ch2 ratio based on the background corrected 
mean fluorescence intensities of the red pixels within the spot ellipse. First, the uncorrected mean 
pixel intensities are determined, and they are exported in the data file as columns CH1I and CH2I, 
along with a count of the number of pixels contained in the spot SPIX. Two methods for 
estimating the local background are provided. These are the median (CH1B, CH2B) intensities of 
the background yellow pixels, and the number of background pixels is exported in column 
BGPIX. The median background values can be used to calculate the ratios and the ratios can be 
obtained form equation (1). When we assume all samples are got from a uniform distribution and 
can used to determine the background region, this assumption is clearly invalid for the spots 
where variations in amount of hybridization DNA across the spot can lead to extremely 
non-uniform distributions. 
1 1 1
2 2 2
Ch CH I CH B X
Ch CH I CH B Y
−= =−           (1) 
The microarray data include 15 samples in our experience. X are the samples of ovarian 
tumor (ovt1, ovt2, ovt3, ovt4, and ovt5), and Y are the samples of borderline malignancy and 
ovarian cancer (ovtt1-CAI, ovca2-CAI, ovca6-CAI, ovca7-CAI, ovca9-CAI, ovca1-CAIII, 
ovca3-CAIII, ovca4-CAIII, ovca5-CAIII, and ovca10-CAIII). A regression equation is a 
mathematical equation that can be used to predict the values of one dependent variable Y from 
known values of one or more independent variables X. We use ovt1 to be the set X and ovtt1-CAI 
to be the set Y, and perform the regression analysis to get the regression line. The result of 
regression of X and Y is shown in Fig. 1. 
Table 1. The genes with greater residual. 
Gene name 
nuclear receptor subfamily 4, group A, member 1 
early growth response 1 
FBJ murine osteosarcoma viral oncogene homolog B 
2764 
jun B proto-oncogene 
isocitrate dehydrogenase 3 (NAD+) alpha 
selenoprotein P, plasma, 1 
v-jun avian sarcoma virus 17 oncogene homolog 
nuclear receptor subfamily 4, group A, member 3 
jun B proto-oncogene 
regulator of G-protein signalling 2, 24kD 
complement component 1, s subcomponent 
jun D proto-oncogene 
serum/glucocorticoid regulated kinase 
jun B proto-oncogene 
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Scheffe are used to get the difference between the X 
and Y. The disease-link gene markers are the genes that have an apparent difference between the 
X and Y. They may have some correlation with cancer and can provide the biologists to do more 
analysis to discover more oncogenes. In the ANOVA, if the result is to reject H0, it presents there 
are differences between each class. After the ANOVA, the Scheffe is used to perform some 
multiple comparisons and to find the classes that have apparent difference. 
The ANOVA returns the p-value for the null hypothesis that all samples in gene expression 
are drawn from the same population. If the p-value is near zero, this casts doubt on the null 
hypothesis and suggests that at least one sample mean is significantly different than the other 
sample means. The choice of a critical p-value to determine whether the result is judged 
"statistically significant" is left to the researcher. When the p-value is less than 0.01, 12 gene 
markers can be got, and they are shown in Table 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig. 4. The box plots of the genes (early growth response 1) after the AVOVA. 
 
We perform a multiple comparison test and the result is shown as an interactive figure in Fig. 
5, it presents a graphical representation of the test. In a one-way analysis of variance, to compare 
the means of several groups to test the hypothesis that they are all the same, against the general 
alternative that they are not all the same. Sometimes this alternative may be too general. You may 
need information about which pairs of means are significantly different, and which are not. A test 
that can provide such information is called a "multiple comparison procedure." The result of 
genes (adrenomedullin) after multiple comparing is shown in Fig. 5. 
 (c) (d) 
 
(e) 
Fig. 6. Five trend graphs for different samples. (a) All samples; (b) OVT samples; 
(c) OVTT sample; (d) OVCAI samples; (e) OVCAIII samples. 
 
The trend graph of the individual gene (jun B proto-oncogene) is shown in Fig. 8. The gene 
expression of OVTT is the highest of other samples. The gene (jun B proto-oncogene) is also a 
gene marker. After the multiple comparison, the OVT、OVTI and OVTIII have means 
significantly different from OVTT of jun B proto-oncogene (Fig. 7). 
 
4. Unsupervised Classification and analysis results 
It is difficult to diagnose cancer for clinical diagnosis in recent years. This paper wants to 
look up the unknown cancer subtypes. It must be performed by unsupervised learning, so the 
SOM performs to do self-clustering for microarray data in this paper. The difference between the 
OVT, OVTT, OVCAI and OVCAIII can be identified automatically. 
We use the gene expression of 12 gene markers to input the SOM and specify different 
topologies for the original neuron locations with the functions gridtop, hextop or randtop. There 
are four distinct mehtods to calculate distances from a particular neuron to its neighbors. Each 
calculation method is implemented with a special function. It is used to calculate the Euclidean 
distance from a home neuron to any other neuron, then to create a new SOM network and set four 
neurons (1×4) in network. We compare the result that use every topology with different distances, 
and set the training epochs are 1000 times. It discovers the best result of experience which is rand 
top with Euclidean distance, and it is shown in Fig. 9 and Table 3. 
 
Fig. 9. The result of SOM. 
 
 Table 3. The result of clustering after SOM. 
Neural No. OVT OVTT OVCAI OVCAIII Total 
1 2 1 0 0 3 
2 3(100%) 0 0 0 3 
3 0 0 0 2(100%) 2 
4 0 0 4 3 7 
Total 5 1 4 5 15 
4 0 0 4 1 5 
Total 5 1 4 5 15 
 
We define the successful clustering is to have the same sample in one center. It can 
distinguish 5 OVT, 1 OVTT and 4 OVCAIII successfully, but it can not distinguish OVCAII. In 
our experiment we find that the FCM can get a better result than the SOM. 
Hierarchical clustering is a technique to investigate grouping in data, simultaneously over a 
variety of scales, by creating a cluster tree. The tree is not a single set of clusters, but rather a 
multi-level hierarchy, where clusters at one level are joined as clusters at the next higher level. 
Hierarchical clustering has seven kinds of distance parameter and five kinds of linkage methods. 
The Common distance parameters include: Euclidean distance, standardized Euclidean distance, 
Mahalanobis distance, City Block metric, Minkowski metric, cosine and correlation. And the 
common linkage methods have: single linkage, complete linkage, average linkage, centroid 
linkage and Ward’s linkage. In our experiment we find the standardized Euclidean distance is the 
best distance parameter and the average linkage is the best linkage methods of hierarchical 
Clustering, and the result of hierarchical clustering is shown in Fig. 11. Hierarchical clustering 
can distinguish 5 OVT, 4 OVCAI, 4 OVCAIII and 1 OVTT (of the same branch), only can 
distinguish 1 OVCAIII. The comparisons between each method are shown in Table 5. 
 
6. Appendix 
This report is published on 2006 IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics, Oct. 8 - Oct. 11, 2006, Taipei, Taiwan, pp. 3685-3690. 
[12] Jang, J.-S. R. and C.-T. Sun, Neuro-Fuzzy and Soft Computing: A Computational Approach 
to Learning and Machine Intelligence, Prentice Hall, 1997. 
[13] G. B. Kevin, “The Sharing of CDNA Microarray Data,” Nature Reviews Neuroscience, pp. 
438-440.  
[14] M. B. Eisen and P. O. Brown, “DNA Arrays for Analysis of Gene Expression,” Meth. 
Enzymol., vol. 303, pp. 179-205, 1999. 
[15] Q. John, “Computitional Analysis of Microarray Data,” Nature, Vol. 2, pp. 418, 2001. 
[16] H. F. Kaiser. “The Varimax Criterion for Analytic Rotation in Factor Analysis,” 
Psychometrika, Vol. 23, pp. 187-200, 1958. 
[17] J.C. Bezdek, “Pattern Recognition with Fuzzy Objective Function Algorithms,” Plenum 
Press, New York 1981. 
[18] J. C. Bezdek et al., “Convergence Theory for Fuzzy c-Means: Counterexamples and 
Repairs,” IEEE Trans. Syst., September/October 1987. 
[19] Maria Colmenares and Olaf WolkenHauer, “An Introduction into Fuzzy Clustering,” 
http://www.csc.umist.ac.uk/computing/clustering.htm, July 1998, last update 03 July, 2000. 
[20] Marti Hearst, K-Means Clustering, UCB SIMS, Fall 1998. 
[21] Uri Kroszynski and Jianjun Zhou, “Fuzzy Clustering Principles, Methods and Examples,” 
IKS, December 1998. 
[22] Carl G. Looney, “A Fuzzy Clustering and Fuzzy Merging Algorithm,” CS791q Class Notes. 
[23] Carl G. Looney, “Pattern Recognition Using Neural Networks,” Oxford University Press, 
N.Y., 1997. 
