中文摘要: 
 
目前很多可攜式的系統單晶片中，非揮發性記憶體被用於儲存系統程式和預存資料
庫，為系統單晶片中的一部分。快閃記憶體有可靠度問題、需使用特殊記憶體製程，複雜
度高，與先進製程有 3~4代的製程差距。唯讀記憶體使用邏輯製程，與其他製程相容性高，
且唯一大儲存容量，小尺寸、低成本、低消耗功率，高速度操作的特性，是目前講求高速
度的系統晶片不可或缺的基礎功能區塊。反及閘型唯讀記憶體的特點相較於反或閘型唯讀
記憶體優點在於面積小、密度高、漏電流小，待機功率小，位元線上的負載與漏電流與碼
無關，功率容易被預測。 
因製程微縮，金屬線與金屬線之間的距離接近導致嚴重的串音干擾效應，探討在 90奈
米的製程之下解決位元線與位元線之間的雜訊干擾、電荷分享效應及位元線漏電流所導致
讀取速度降低與讀取失敗。我們提出了動態源極充放電路可以消除傳統反及閘型唯讀記憶
體所不能避免發生位元線與位元線之間的雜訊干擾，電荷分享效應與位元線漏電流影響，
避免因為不同的儲存資料導致待機電流大幅度的變化，且不會造成延遲增加與短路電流的
發生。 
記憶體細胞陣列呈現的方式是以 16個細胞為一個細胞串，每一個細胞串經由專屬的選擇電
晶體連接到位元線，32個細胞串連接到位元線，512條位元線的細胞陣列完成 16K×16的反
及閘型細胞陣列來驗證位元線已消除雜訊干擾，使反及閘型唯讀記憶體讀取速度加快，操
作功率消耗與待機功率降低且具有 100%編碼覆蓋範圍。此 DSSL 電路可使 90 奈米 256Kb 
NAND-ROM 最低操作電壓降至 0.31V，此電路將發表於 2010 ISSCC 會議中。 
 
Abstract 
Embedded NAND-type read-only-memory (NAND-ROM) provides large-capacity 
high-reliability on-chip non-volatile storage but suffer code-dependent read-1 failures and cannot 
survive at low supply voltage (VDD). The code-dependent read-1 failure mainly because of the 
charge-sharing effect, bitline leakage current and crosstalk between bitlines, which are worse at 
lower VDD. This work proposes a low voltage metal-programmable NAND-type ROM using a 
dynamic split source-line (DSSL) scheme to overcome code-dependent read-1 failures while 
improves the read access time and suppress the active-mode gate leakage current, with 1% area 
penalty in cell array. Experiments on a fabricated 256Kb macro using a 90nm industrial logic 
process demonstrate that DSSL scheme achieves 100% code-pattern coverage under a small 
sensing margin. Additionally, DSSL NAND-ROM works with a wide range of supply voltages 
(1V–0.31V) with up to 80% improvement in speed. 
 
關鍵詞(keywords) 
NAND-type ROM, crosstalk, low-voltage 
 
NDC[n-1]/NDC[n+1] help suppress crosstalk (VBL-XT) caused by switching BLs, BL[n-2] and 
BL[n+2]. The maximum VBL-XT in a 256Kb DSSL array is only 4% of that in a conventional array.  
With a weak PMOS BL keeper, this small VBL-XT and SGL-to-BL coupling noise can be 
eliminated before enabling the sense amplifier.   
 The SLs of unselected sectors remain at VDD in the sensing phase and cannot generate a 
discharging BL leakage current—BL leakage noise (VBL-Leak) is eliminated, and the PMOS 
BL-keeper only fights the small leakage current of the 1-cell being read. Accordingly, the DSSL 
scheme can use a weaker BL-keeper. This produces less ICELL erosion than a conventional scheme 
and makes the DSSL scheme less sensitive to P-N beta-ratio fluctuations due to global and local 
process variations. Using the DSSL scheme, the NAND-ROM cell array has no false voltage drop 
(VBL1-NOISE) on BLs for reading 1-cells.  
 
Combining DSSL [8] and DASR [7] schemes with weak BL-keepers enables the proposed 
NAND-ROM to use higher VREF and shorter TSG for a given VSM1 and VSM0 than in a conventional 
scheme, without concerns for read-1 noise. The short TSG increases the operating speed and 
reduces dynamic power due to smaller average VBL0 across ROM-codes. The reduced TSG 
improves 52% and 55% in speed and dynamic power, respectively, for a 256Kb NAND-ROM 
operating at VDD=1V, as Fig. 4 shows. Since all the unselected WLs, SLs, and internal nodes in 
cell array are all held high, the gate-leakage current in the DSSL scheme is suppressed and results 
in a 37% standby current reduction. Fig 3. shows the VSM0 distribution with 6σ VT variation on 
0-cells. Obviously, the DASR scheme has larger VSM0 at lower VDD compared to the 
conventional scheme. This expended VSM0 with high VREF makes the proposed NAND-ROM 
tolerate large ICELL variation and reduce the VDDmin by 0.6V compared to conventional scheme, 
which is important for large-capacity applications. 
 
結果與討論 
A 256Kb NAND-ROM macro with a 16-stacking-bitcell NDC (k=16) was fabricated using a 
90nm bulk CMOS logic process. A designed code-pattern was applied to the NAND-ROM to 
explore the minimum ICELL (maximum stacking effect) and the maximum VBL1-NOISE for 100% 
ROM-code coverage verification. The testchip included options for speed (TSG) adjustments and 
DASR enabling. With a typical-speed setting and the DASR disabled, the macro is functional at 
0.31V and 5MHz, as shown in Fig. 5. With a high-speed setting and the DASR enabled, the 
macro is functional at 0.29V and 3MHz. As shown in Fig. 6, the proposed NAND-ROM reduces 
the delay-per-BL-length, energy-per-bit at VDDmin, and VDDmin-delay-product by 3000X , 4X 
and 3700X, respectively compared to previous sub-0.5V ROMs, with only 5% area overhead. 
Thus, the proposed schemes enable NAND-ROM to have larger density with much lower 
VDDmin-delay product for the applications with complex operations and better performances. 
Fig. 7 shows the die photo. 
 
References: 
[1] M. Seok, S. Hanson, J.-S. Seo, D. Sylvester, and D. Blaauw, ―Robust ultra-low voltage ROM 
design,‖ CICC Dig. Tech. Papers, pp. 423-426, Sep. 2008. 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Proposed DSSL and conventional (CNV) NAND-ROM cell array
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Simulation Comparison 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Shmoo plots of proposed 256Kb DSSL NAND-ROM 
 
 
0.025V/step 
5Mhz/Ste
p 
Pass 
Fail 
1V 
DSSL 
0.01V/step 
1Mhz/Ste
p 
0.31V, 3Mhz 
Fail 
Pass 
0.5V 
0.5V, 46Mhz 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Die photo  
 
 
 
Technology 90nm 1P9M CMOS Logic 
Capacity 256Kb 
Macro area (mm
2
) 0.068 
NAND-ROM bitcell area (um
2
) 0.15 
NAND-Chain size (um
2
) 
(16 bitcells, one SG and two SLs) 
2.57 
 
256Kb  
NAND-ROM 
(DSSL+DASR) 
出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-007-137 
計畫名稱 適用於奈米製程之低電壓低漏電電流的內嵌式高密度唯讀記憶體之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
張孟凡 
國立清華大學電機工程學系 助理教授 
會議時間地點 Kyoto, Japan, June 15-18, 2009 
會議名稱 2009 Symposium on VLSI Circuits 
發表論文題目 
A differential data aware power-supplied (D2AP) 8T SRAM cell with expanded 
write/read stabilities for lower VDDmin applications 
 
一、參加會議經過 
Oral presentation in the afternoon, June 17, 2009 
2009 Symposium on VLSI Circuits 
June 15~18, 2009, Kyoto, Japan. 
 
二、與會心得 
發表論文 (附件一) 
 
 
技術特點 
使反及閘型唯讀記憶體讀取速度加快，操作功率消耗與待機功率降
低且具有 100%編碼覆蓋範圍 
推廣及運用的價值 
適合低電壓系統單晶片運用價值高 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
margin (WM) significantly. Boosted wordline (WL) [1-3] and cell supply voltage (CVDD) down [4-6] schemes can 
improve WM, but degrade its cell stability for unselected cells. Upsizing (UP) 6T cell reduces σVTH but cannot meet the 
requirements for further lower VDDmin. Dual-rail schemes [7-8] help lower the VDDmin for 6T cells at the expense of 
extra area and power for voltage regulations.  
This paper proposes a differential data aware power supplied (D2AP) 8T cell with boosted bitline scheme, enabling to 
solve all the cell VDDmin stability issues for write and read including an IRC degradation for the first time as shown in 
Table-I. 
Differential Data Aware Power-supplied (D2AP) 8T Cell 
Fig. 1 depicts the D2AP-8T SRAM cell. In hold mode, both the PMOS switches (PSWL and PSWR) are kept on 
(ZWL=0) to supply the power to PUL and PUR of the cross-coupled inverters (invL and invR) from the 
VDD-precharged bitline pair (BL and BLB).  
In a write-0 operation, the BL is pulled down to ground while the BLB is kept at VDD, as shown in Fig. 2(a). Since 
both the PSWL and PSWL are on, the PUL source voltage is reduced. Thus, the PUL has less strength to keep node Q at 
“1” and the trip point of invL becomes lower, resulting in a significant increase of WM. On the other hand, the PUR 
source voltage is kept at VDD, enabling a faster pull-high speed for node QB during a write-0 operation unlike the 
conventional CVDD down write-assist schemes. The PMOS switches of un-selected D2AP-8T cells on the accessed 
column are temporarily turned off to isolate the storage nodes from BL during the short BL switching period. Thus, 
another advantage of this cell is to realize a “cross-point”-write access that enables to avoid any column disturbances 
from written differential BL. This also allows the written “1” BL side to be boosted to increase a write speed for lower 
VDDmin. 
In a read-0 operation, the boosted BL scheme is applied to the selected column as shown in Fig. 2(b).  Since the 
boosting BL provides a “cross-point”-boosted CVDD of PUR and larger VGS of PDL, the voltage bump at node Q is 
suppressed and the body-effect-induced higher VTH penalty of PGL is reduced. These result in a highlighted increase of 
read cell current (IRC) and read static-noise-margin (SNM) in a lower VDD. 
Regarding a half-select issue when WL access, D2AP-8T cell can provide a better read-SNM than RD-8T and 6T cells 
thanks to the following “self-negative feedback mechanism”. Even if the storage node Q is raised by being connected 
with BL and QB is dropped, invL automatically becomes harden to flip due to being weaken PUL strength caused by 
voltage drop on BL. 
Performance and Comparison 
This study designs a D2AP-8T cell (Fig. 3) with the same transistor sizes for the invL, invR, PGL and PGR as in a 
foundry’s 6T cell [7]. The PSWL and PSWR layout in this study do not employ aggressive rules. The cell area 
overheads of D2AP-8T cell and RD-8Tcell are about the same 1.5x the size of an aggressive-rule 6T cell. UP-6T and 
compact RD-8T (CRD-8T) cells are also designed with the same size and 93% the size of the D2AP-8T cell for 
comparisons, respectively. 
Fig. 4 shows the simulated WM for 45nm SRAM cells, with 6-σ local VTH variations at slow-NMOS fast-PMOS 
global corner. The D2AP-8T cell improves the mean WM at VDD=0.5V by 3.8x~3.4x compared to the CRD-8T, RD-8T, 
and UP-6T cells. Thus, D2AP-8T cell can achieve lower VDDmin than other SRAM cells. 
Fig. 5(a) shows the IRC of several SRAM cells across various VDD. With a 100mV BL boosted voltages (VBST), the 
D2AP-8T cell improve the IRC by 2.2x and 1.5x compared to the RD-8T, and UP-6T cells at VDD=0.5V, respectively. 
The large increment in IRC by boosted BL improves the read speed despite of the additional BL load caused by the 
