2can occur [2].
One means of generating micro-vortices is
by electro-osmotic flow (EOF) over a surface
with non-uniform Zeta potentials either by
functionalization or induced-charge
electro-osmosis (ICEO) [3-5]. Zeta potential is
electric potential on the slipping plane in the
interfacial double layer versus the fluid bulk.
Vortex flow can also arise from AC
electro-osmosis (ACEO), where flow is
generated by the action of an AC electric field on
its own induced diffuse charges near a
polarizable surface [6-8]. In both ICEO and
ACEO, the electrokinetic slip velocity on a
surface is nonlinear with respect to the applied
field and varies with position, thus causing vortex
flows of diverse features.
Particle trapping at a localized location is
unique to microfluidics with vanishing particle
inertia, steady Stokes fluid flows and various
short-range effects such as electrostatic forces or
dielectrophoresis (DEP). We have undertaken
this problem and demonstrated theoretically that
steady EOF vortices can indeed act as long-range
collectors to facilitate particle trapping by
short-range forces [9]. In this study, the vortices
were generated by a pair of oppositely charged
strips in an unbounded fluid.
Perhaps a more efficient way is to trap
particles by confined EOF vortices in a closed
environment in which flow depletion effects can
be completely eliminated. We expect that similar
but more robust trapping might take place using
confined ICEO or ACEO vortices.
In this project, we aim at providing feasible
techniques for particle trapping and sorting by
confined EOF micro-vortices. In particular, we
seek not only to delineate the conditions for a
vortex trap, a point trap and a limit cycle trap, but
also to suggest a means to sort different particles.
Starting with the Stokes flow equation and
general boundary conditions, we derive an
analytical solution for two-dimensional
micro-vortex flow within a semicircular cap. We
also utilize this solution to illustrate the structures
of confined micro-vortex flows under the no-slip
boundary condition. Kinetic equations are then
presented to govern particle motion under
various velocity and force fields. To identify
dynamic characteristics of particle motion in a
vortex, we develop a generic bifurcation theory.
This theory offers a facile way to break a vortex
trap, create a point trap, or generate a limit cycle
trap, providing an adroit manipulation of particle
trapping and release. In particular, we find that
the formation of a point or limit cycle trap is
sensitive to particle identity. This feature is
advantageous to sort colloidal particles.
2. Mathematical Formulation and Solution
for Stokes Fluid Flow in a Semicircular
Channel
As depicted in Fig. 1, we consider the
two-dimensional microfluidic flow in a
semicircular cap driven by a non-uniform
distribution of the electrokinetic (or
Smoluchowski) slip velocity on the bottom
surface. Assume that the fluid is incompressible
and Newtonian, and its flow is Stokes flow at a
very low Reynolds number. To interpret the
problem in dimensionless form, we scale velocity
and length by the maximum Smoluchowski slip
velocity 0U and the radius of the semicircle L,
respectively. Pressure and stress are scaled by
0U L , wheredenotes the viscosity of fluid.
A. Analytical solution for general microfluidic
flow
For Stokes flow, the stream functionin the
polar coordinates (r, ) satisfies the familiar
biharmonic equation
4 0  (1)
and the velocity field ( ru , u) can be readily
obtained through
1
ru r




, u
r


(2a)
which satisfy the continuity equation
automatically. In the Cartesian coordinates (x, y),
the velocitycomponents xu and yu are related to
ru and u via
sin cosx ru u u   , cos siny ru u u  
(2b)
The general boundary conditions are
4Here, we assume that the slip velocity
distribution can be well approximated by a
polynomial in r with a proper choice of the
coefficients ma , mb , maand mb.
Step 2. Apply the fundamental solution 2
in Eq. (6) to satisfy u (in terms of a polynomial
in r) at 2  also given by Eqs. (3a) and
(3b). The coefficients ma , mb , maand mbare
chosen such that 2 2( )r h r  at 2 
and 2 r  4 ( )h r at 2  .
Step 3. The solution secured so far is
1 2( , ) ( , )r r    , which satisfies all the
boundary conditions of Eqs. (3a) and (3b). The
next step is to incorporate the fundamental
solution 3 in Eq. (7) to meet the condition of
5( )h  at 1r in Eq. (3c). The coefficient
0 in Eq. (7b) is used to designate the reference
value and can be chosen as
 (1, 2) (1, 2) 2     . The coefficients mc
and mcare evaluated to make 3(1, )  equal to
5 1 2( ) (1, ) (1, )h       , yielding
1 1c  , 2 , 3,5,m m mc c m     (9a)
0 0c   , 2 , 2,4,m m mc c m       (9b)
where
5 1 2 0
1,3 0,2
( ) (1, ) (1, )
sin cosm m
m m
h
m m
     
   
 
 
  
   (9c)
Step 4. In the final step, the fundamental
solution 4 in Eq. (8) is employed to satisfy the
last boundary condition 6( )u h  at 1r in
Eq. (3c). Note that the addition of 4 will not
alter any boundary conditions employed in the
preceding three steps. We can thus determine the
expansion coefficients i and iin 4 by
applying the complete solution,
1 2 3 4        , to meet 6( )u h  at
1r .
B. Analytical solution for confined
micro-vortex flow
For the fluid flow confined within the
semicircular cap, we specify the following
conditions in Eq. (3) to ensure no flow across the
outer boundary:
0u at 2  (10a)
0 at 1r (10b)
At the cap, we apply the“no-slip condition”to a
solid-liquid interface:
0u at 1r for no-slip surface (10c)
Confined micro-vortex flow can be set up
by a non-uniform slip velocity slipu = ru over the
bottom surface at 2  as seen in Eqs. (3a)
and (3b). The distribution of this velocity can be
approximated by a polynomial in x as follows:
slip 0
0
M
j
x jy
j
u u p x
 
  (11)
Below, we illustrate the use of the analytical
solution with an example.
Example 1. For the no-slip micro-vortex
flow, we obtain an analytical solution when the
following slip velocity distribution is imposed
over the bottom surface ( 1 1x  and y = 0):
2 3
slip ( ) 0.444(1 4 4 )u x x x x   
This velocity is zero at x = 0.25, positive for x <
0.25 and negative for x > 0.25, which might
mimic situations occurring in ACEO. As
elucidated in Fig. 2, the analytical solution can be
decomposed into odd and even parts by splitting
slip ( )u x into
odd
slip ( )u x and
even
slip ( )u x , respectively.
The odd part generates a pair of counter-rotating
vortices in equal sizes, as shown in Fig. 3b. The
even part generates a single vortex, circulating
across the entire semicircle, as seen in Fig. 3c.
Combining the odd and even parts, Fig. 3a
show the streamlines of a vortex flow pattern
subject to the no-slip condition. The results
reveal a pair of asymmetric micro-vortices
separated by a dividing dashed line emitted from
the stagnation point (at x = 0.25) on the bottom
surface where the fluid velocity vanishes. Note
that the positive slip velocity, which is larger in
magnitude, causes the larger counter-clockwise
vortex on the left. In addition, since the flow
6trapping and release.
A. Linear stability analysis of particle flow
We first carry out a linear stability analysis
for the dynamic system given by Eq. (13) at some
fixed point ( p p,x y ). This analysis not only
enables us to identify the dynamic nature of the
fixed point, but also tell us how to modify its
stability for manipulating the nonlinear behavior
of particle flow. The fixed point satisfies the
equilibrium condition
p p p p( , ) ( , ) 0F x y G x y  (14)
The eigenvalues  of the Jacobian matrix
p p( , )x yJ can be calculated by
21 tr( ) tr( ) 4det( )
2
        J J J (15a)
Here, the superscript * denotes the value
evaluated at the fixed point, and the trace and
determinant of the matrix are given by
p p
tr( )
F G
x y
 
   
 
J (15b)
p p p p
det( )
F G F G
x y y x
   
     
   
J (15c)
We see from Eq. (15b) that if all the velocity
and force fields in Eq. (13) are divergence-free,
i.e. N, 0iE  , the trace is always zero. In this case,
Eq. (15a) suggests that the corresponding fixed
point can be either a saddle point having two real
eigenvalues of the same absolute value but
opposite signs or a center having a pair of purely
imaginary eigenvalues. However, the addition of
a non-divergence-free force field N,iE could
make the trace nonzero and hence turn a center
fixed point into a stable or unstable spiral. This
feature allows us to trap or release particles with
the aid of repulsive or attractive NDF forces.
B. Vortex trap in a divergence-free field
In the absence of NDF forces, a center fixed
point for particle flow often exists within a fluid
vortex. It is found that this center is accompanied
by a vortex trap in which every particle circulates
along its specific isolated and closed path and
permanently suspends there. This phenomenon is
in line with that observed by Stommel [12] for
non-inertial particles settling in a cellular flow
field. The vortex trap often prevents particle
trapping at a fixed point because it can neither
capture particles from the outside nor release
particles from the inside.
A permanent vortex trap for particles is
difficult to realize in reality. Rubin et al. [13]
applied a singular perturbation theory to show
that a small amount of inertia is sufficient to
break the closed orbits of the particles and causes
them to settle eventually. Nevertheless, under the
assumptions of vanishing particle inertia and no
NDF force, the enclosed particles would escape
away from the closed orbits very slowly and
could be treated essentially as being confined.
C. Particle trapping at a stagnation point with
NDF force
To promote the trapping efficiency in
Example 1, one can turn the center fixed point of
a vortex trap into an unstable spiral with an
attractive NDF force. Such a change to instability
could break immediately the vortex trap and
release particles away from the unstable spiral.
As mentioned previously, if such an NDF force
enters as short-range electrostatic or
dielectrophoretic attraction between the particle
and the surface, it can only act on the particle in
the y direction according to
N, 0xE  , N, pexp( )yE y  
The electrostatic force here with the mobility NZ
is given by the screened Coulomb attraction of a
charged particle to an oppositely charged surface
if the particle comes close to the surface within a
certain distance of the electric double layer[14].
Because of the charge screening, the force must
attenuate exponentially in y at the rate of 1
according to the Debye-Huckel theory [15]. As
for the DEP force, it comes to attract the particle
toward the surface through positive DEP if the
field at the surface is the greatest. It can be shown
that the local electric field near the surface
behaves like exp( )y  with measuring the
penetration depth of the field. The resulting DEP
force is then proportional to exp( )y  with=
/2, which also decays exponentially in y but at
the rate twice faster than the electric field.
8symbols of the same shape are used to mark the
consecutive particle positions during a time
interval of 0L U . It appears that the trapping
speed is fast in that three particles from different
places are attracted and soon aggregated near the
point trap. Moreover, the trapping efficiency of
this design is high because the most adjacent
saddle point, limiting the basin of attraction of
the point trap, is at a long distance.
E. Particle trapping and release by a limit
cycle trap in a vortex
To generate a ring trap, we utilize the
well-known phenomenon of a supercritical Hopf
bifurcation in which stable limit cycles emerge
from a fixed point. It can be shown that for
particle motion governed by Eq. (13) in any DF
field, a fixed point of center type is accompanied
by a pair of purely imaginary eigenvalues and the
vanishing first Lyapunov coefficient of
However, a supercritical Hopf bifurcation
requires that the center fixed point should possess
a negativeand lose its stability with changes in
some parameters [16]. These conditions can be
achieved by incorporating a pair of repulsive and
attractive NDF force fields, r r,iE and a a,iE , i.e.
replacing N,iE in Eq. (13) by
N, r r, a a,i i iE E E  
We then choose *r r  and *a a  such that the
fixed point of a particle with mobility NZ is of
center type and the correspondingis negative.
The search for such a setup is straightforward,
inasmuch as the center of a fluid vortex is a
natural candidate for the desired fixed point.
Upon acquiring the supercritical Hopf bifurcation
point, the final design is achieved by decreasing
the value of r from *r to induce a stable limit
cycle with the ring size roughly proportional to
*
r r  . This ring trap then appears as an
orbitally stable limit cycle surrounding an
unstable spiral. Note that any DF velocity or
force fields cannot contribute to the formation of
a limit cycle because they can vary neither the
stability of the fixed point nor the value of.
5. Particle Sorting Using Limit Cycle Traps
in Vortices
Conventional vortex-based particle
manipulation is more effective in particle
trapping than in particle sorting. The reason is
that the vortex flow is mainly employed to bring
particles down onto the surface. After the
particles land on the surface, the sole role of
liquid flow is merely focusing these particles
toward the stagnation point, regardless of particle
identity (such as size, density, charge,
conductivity, etc.), and hence is of little help to
particle separation or sorting. On the contrary, the
use of point traps or limit cycle traps furnishes an
effective means to sort particles because their
locations and existence are sensitive to the nature
of non-hydrodynamic forces involved and
determined exclusively by particle properties.
Hence, if there are particles with different
properties, it is possible to sort them by the vortex
flow into different point traps or limit cycle traps.
Below we provide an example to
demonstrate the use of limit cycle traps in sorting
particles through their differences in the
mobilities of non-hydrodynamic force fields, DZ
or NZ .
Example 3. Here, we demonstrate particle
sorting using a limit cycle trap in the vortex flow
structure set up by the following non-uniform
slip velocity distribution
2 3
slip ( ) 0.844(1 )u x x x x   
The NDF force fields required to elicit a
limit cycle are produced by a pair of source and
sink points (essentially source and sink lines in
the three-dimensional view). It is postulated that
the particle is pushed by the repulsive force from
the source point and at the same time is pulled by
the attractive force from the sink point. We
stipulate that the NDF force is acting along the
direction from the particle toward the location of
the source or sink point, and its magnitude is
inversely proportional to their distance raised to
the power n. Note that if n is equal to one, the
force field will be divergence-free. To reflect the
short-range and non-divergence-free nature, the
respective force fields are given by the inverse
power expressions with n > 1
10
unravel particle dynamics in micro-vortices
under the combined effects of advection and
forces. It is interesting to note that the forces need
not be externally applied. With inertia, it is
possible to create a limit cycle trap by applying a
repulsive NDF force or imposing a time-periodic
perturbation upon the vortex flow. Results found
in this study might offer new paradigms for
achieving efficient particle manipulation and
hence have potentials in realizing
high-throughput screening in many on-chip
applications.
7. References
[1] A. W. Martinez, S. T. Phillips, B. J. Wiley,
M. Gupta and G. M. Whitesides, Lab Chip 8,
2146 (2008).
[2] J. Wu, Y. Ben, D. Battigelli and H. C.
Chang, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 44, 2815
(2005).
[3] S. K. Thamida and H. C. Chang, Phys.
Fluids 14, 4315 (2002).
[4] Y. Ben and H. C. Chang, J. Fluid Mech. 461,
229 (2002).
[5] E. Brunet and A. Ajdari, Phys. Rev. E 73,
056306 (2006).
[6] A. Ramos, H. Morgan, N. G. Green and A.
Castellanos, J. Colloid Interface Sci. 217,
420 (1999).
[7] A. Ajdari, Phys. Rev. E 61, R45 (2000).
[8] A. Gonzalez, A. Ramos, N. G. Green, A.
Castellanos and H. Morgan, Phys. Rev. E 61,
4019 (2000).
[9] S. J. Liu, S. H. Hwang and H. H. Wei,
Langmuir 24, 13776 (2008).
[10] L. G. Leal, Laminar Flow and Convective
Transport Processes: Scaling Principles
and Asymptotic Analysis
(Butterworth-Heinemann College: Boston,
1992).
[11] M. R. Maxey and J. J. Riley, Phys. Fluids 26,
883 (1983).
[12] H. Stommel, J. Marine Res. 8, 24 (1949).
[13] J. Rubin, C. K. R. T. Jones and M. Maxey, J.
Nonlinear Science 5, 337 (1995).
[14] R. J. Hunter, Foundation of Colloid Science,
2nd ed. (Oxford University Press: New
York, 2001).
[15] R. F. Probstein, Physicochemical
Hydrodynamics, 2nd ed. (John Wiley &
Sons: New York, 1994).
[16] J. Guckenheimer and P. Holmes, Nonlinear
Oscillations, Dynamical Systems, and
Bifurcations of Vector Fields
(Springer-Verlag: New York, 1983).
FIG. 1. Geometry of the microfluidic system. In the
semicircle, two-dimensional micro-vortex flow is driven
by a non-uniform electrokinetic slip velocity prescribed
on the bottom surface.
-0.5
0
0.5
1
-1 -0.5 0 0.5 1
u
slip
x
Slip velocity
Even part
Odd part
FIG. 2. Non-uniform slip velocity over the bottom
surface for Example 1. The slip velocity can be
decomposed into its odd and even parts.
12
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估
□ ▓達成目標
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限）
□ 實驗失敗
□ 因故實驗中斷
□ 其他原因
說明：
本計畫研究內容與原計畫相符，已達成預期目標。結果顯示所提電滲流模型以及各種粒子操
作原理，極適合微流體系統粒子捕捉與分選之設計。
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形：
論文：▓已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無
其他：（以 100 字為限）
發表之論文簡述如下，本報告內容即源於該期刊論文並將於 100 年化工年會進行海報展示。
S. J. Liu, H. H. Wei, S. H. Hwang*, and H. C. Chang, 2010,“Dynamic Particle Trapping, Release, and
Sorting by Microvortices on a Substrate,”Physical Review E (SCI), 82, 026308(16).
附件二
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/14
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 電滲微渦流架構下懸浮粒子運動之分析、操作與控制
計畫主持人: 黃世宏
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-006-202- 學門領域: 程序工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究計畫與美國聖母大學化工系 Professor Hsueh-Chia Chang 進行合作交
流。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
