  4
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 Ｖ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
計劃名稱:低壓電漿製程之分析 
 
計畫類別：Ｖ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2218－E－002－039 
執行期間： 2007 年 10 月 1 日至 2008 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：徐振哲 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 張鴻文、吳丞以 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：Ｖ精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管
計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年Ｖ二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台灣大學化學工程系 
 
中   華   民   國  97 年 10 月 27  日 
  2
1. Introduction 
Capacitvely coupled plasmas have drawn much attention due to its wide application in 
semiconductor industry and materials surface treatment1.  One central challenge is to generate 
plasmas in a controllable manner and to in-situ detect the perturbation of any kind2.  A major aspect 
associated with the generation of controllable plasmas is the mode transition.  It is widely known 
that capacitively coupled plasmas exhibit α- and γ-discharge modes in low and high power densities, 
respectively3-5.  These two modes are primarily characterized and defined by the spatial distribution 
of the electron density distribution and therefore the optical emission intensities.  The transition 
between the two modes can be detected using  the electrostatic probe and optical emission 
spectrometer.  The former technique requires the insertion of a probe into the plasma chamber which 
is intrusive in nature while the later requires a sufficiently large optical window to visually detect the 
optical emission near the electrode.  These techniques are relatively difficult to adapt to commercial 
tools.   
It is known that the α to γ mode transition is associated with the breakdown of the α sheath 6.  
The stable to unstable transitions and multiple steady state operating can be much more complicated 
and associated theories have reported previously7-10.  In a commercial process, the current and 
voltage waveforms are relatively easy to obtain.  It is known that the harmonic of the waveforms, 
comparing to the amplitudes, is much more sensitive to the subtle change of the plasma11-13.  The 
correlation between the change of harmonic and the change of the discharge modes remains 
unexplored. 
In this work, the process window for α and γ mode discharges and for stable and instable modes 
was identified.  The change of the plasma characteristics accompanied with the change of the 
discharge mode was studied, including the spatial profile of the optical emission intensities, the 
current and voltage waveforms and their harmonics.  The mechanism leading to this transition will 
be proposed.  The implication of the importance of harmonics used for plasma monitoring will be 
discussed. 
 
 
2. Experiment 
The plasma was operated in a glass bell jar with 20 cm diameter and 30 cm height and was 
sustained by a 13.56 MHz RF power source (CAESAR136), shown in.  The power was delivered to 
the plasma via two ring-shaped electrodes with the lower electrode powered and top electrode 
grounded.  The electrode height can be adjusted.  One sample stage was located in the plasma 
chamber with 17 cm in diameter with an adjustable height.  This sample stage was made of stainless 
steel and is grounded.  The gas is fed into the system from both top and bottom of the chamber and is 
pumped out using a mechanical pump.  The chamber pressure is controlled by the gas flow rate. 
  4
 
0.00 0.05 0.10 0.15
0
10
20
30
40
Unstable discharge
P
ow
er
 (W
)
pressure (torr)
α-mode
 
Figure 2: The process window for a mode and unstable discharge 
of an Ar plasma.  The dash line is to guide the eye only. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
Figure 3: The appearance of the (a) α-, (b) γ- modes in an Ar/O2 plasma and (c) 
unstable discharge mode in an Ar plasma under 30 W power and 43 mT pressure. 
 
The appearance of the Ar and Ar/O2 plasma was then visually examined.  As shown in Figure 3 
(a)~(c), the plasma shows a significantly different optical emission both in its intensity and spatial 
distribution.  In Figure 3 (a), the highest light intensity appears in the volume while in (b) it is near 
  6
that both the α and γ modes show an increase of the O radical density with the increase of the power.  
In the γ mode, however, it shows a nearly 40% of increase of the O radical density with respect to the 
α mode under the same power.  It is not clear at this moment why the oxygen radical density is 
higher in the γ mode.  One explanation is that the secondary electrons generated near the surface lead 
to a higher oxygen dissociation. 
 
15 20 25 30 35 40 45
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
mode
transition
γ mode
α mode
Power (W)
I O
/I A
r (
a.
u.
)
 
Figure 5 The peak intensity ratio of the Oxygen (777.3 nm) 
and Argon (811.6 nm) emission lines under 43 mT pressure 
in O2 plasmas with 5% of Ar addition. 
 
The current and voltage waveforms were then examined.  The current and voltage waveforms 
are essentially sinusoidal (not shown).  The values of the peak to peak voltage and current as a 
function of power are shown in Figure 6.  It is shown that below 29 W power, the voltage and 
current increases with the power nearly linearly, suggesting the linearly increase of the power 
delivered to the plasma.  At 30 W, an abrupt change occurs and this corresponds to the power at 
which the α-to-γ mode transition occurs.  It is known that the γ mode is the high current mode.  In 
spite of the fact that a decrease of the current was observed accompanied with the mode transition, it 
shows that the γ mode is the high current mode when the current is plotted against the voltage. 
  8
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
3/1
Power (W)
R
at
io
4/1
 
Figure 7: The ratio of the 3rd to 1st and 4th to 1st harmonics of the 
current waveforms of Ar plasmas under 43 mT. The transition of 
the α- and γ-modes is shown as the dashed line.  Note that the 
conditions here are identical to that in Figure 6. 
 
 
Rf current and/or voltage harmonics used to monitor the plasma has been reported previously11, 13.  
It is shown that the harmonic is a more sensitive measure to detect the deviation of the plasma from 
its pre-defined process window or to detect the etching end point.  The change of the harmonic 
associated with the α-to-γ transition has been unexplored to our knowledge.  The mechanism for the 
significant change of the harmonic upon mode transition is unclear.  One plausible explanation is 
related to the non-symmetric nature of the plasma upon the mode transition.  As indicated in the 
literature that the harmonic is associated with the unequal area of the powered and the ground 
electrode in a capacitively coupled plasma, defined by the ratio of the powered electrode area to the 
grounding electrode area16.  This ratio, defined as R, is less than unity in most systems.  For the 
system used in this present work, the power electrode area remains constant regardless of the 
discharge mode.  In the α mode, the ground electrode the plasma “sees” is the upper surface of the 
sample stage.  Note that R is less than unity here.  Upon jumping to the γ mode, the plasma covers 
both the upper and the lower side of the sample stage.  With this increase of the grounding surface 
area, R decreases by a factor of two, leading the system to be further un-symmetric.  This change of 
symmetry can possibly explain the jump of the harmonics shown in Figure 7. This jump in harmonics 
suggests that it is a feasible strategy using harmonic to monitor the possible mode change in a 
commercial tool where optical windows are not available. 
 
 
4. Conclusion 
In this work, the α to γ mode transition has been identified by its visual appearance.  This 
