 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
深次微米 IC設計、製造、與測試之半導體工程鏈研究 
Research on Semiconductor Engineering Chain for 
Sub-wavelength IC Design, Manufacture and Testing 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-002 -384 -MY3 
執行期限：97年 8月 1日至 98年 7月 31日 
    主持人：黃漢邦 台灣大學機械工程學系 
共同主持人：張時中 台灣大學電機工程學系 
共同主持人：范治民 元智大學工業工程與管理學系 
共同主持人：周雍強 台灣大學工業工程研究所 
 
研究人員：  
  金威翰、陳育章  台灣大學工業工程研究所 
  鄭哲欣、白宗正  台灣大學工業工程研究所 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
為了加快半導體晶圓廠製造深次微米技術之
良率學習，本計劃以無縫式工程鏈合作為目標，
提出方法並建構相對應之資訊系統。總計劃以建
立一基準環境和整合資料集、模型及最佳化工具
為目的，以整合各個子計畫。 
子計畫一將發展一個服務導向資訊平台，此
資訊平台中，首先將受一些安全機制保護，確保
平台內資訊流通的安全及可靠度。接著，包含事
件記錄、統計模組、資料探勘以及其他支援的功
能模組將會同時增強網站的功能性。藉由此資訊
平台的建置，在半導體晶圓廠內的各個部門，將
可以將其負責的作業模組化並傳至平台成為公司
內部之共享資源，達到資訊的流通及共用性。 
子計畫二將開發一個智慧型的工程知識探勘
(EKM)方法與系統，以解決由於深次微米積體電路
技術所引發與設計相關的良率問題。EKM能夠整
合各式工程知識，並且能夠動態根據問題特性來
重新組合產生一個合適的資料探勘運算流程。
EKM背後所採用的技術包含方法論工程、軟體工
程與知識本體論工程。將以計劃主持人與共同主
持人長期以來所研究的製程整合問題為基礎，深
入研究 EKM在系統建構方面的議題，並建立與測
試 EKM的雛型系統；之後再全面針對電路設計法
則改進問題，以 EKM觀點建構出創新的資料探勘
解決方案。  
子計畫四以工程暨製造複合系統為流程同步
化為研究目標，目的是發展這個系統流程同步化
的機制與方法。此子計畫有兩個研究項目：第一
個項目在策略的層次探討工程與製造能力的同步
化。第二個則是在改善良率學習率的基盤層次探
討下世代微晶片設計工作應如何協調，以改進學
習速率。 
關鍵詞：工程合作資料系統、工程知識探勘、流
程同步化。 
 
Abstract 
To speed up yield learning for competitive 
foundry manufacturing services as semiconductor 
manufacturing evolves into sub-wavelength 
technology nodes, this proposed project aims at 
designing a methodology and the corresponding 
information system architecture for enabling 
seamless engineering chain (EC) collaboration. The 
main project aims at establishing benchmark 
environment and integrating the data sets, models 
and optimization tools of individual sub-project into 
it. In the benchmark system, there are three roles: 
sub-project owner, website manager, and system 
visitor. According to the interactions between the 
roles and the benchmark system, three levels of 
processes are identified as: operational, analytic, and 
collaborative. Specific system optimization 
applications of individual sub-projects may then 
make shared and/or hybrid use of these optimization 
tools. 
Subproject 1 will propose a Service Oriented 
Architecture (SOA) information platform. Under the 
platform, all the data transmission would be strictly 
secured and protected from outer attacks and stealing 
by some security mechanisms for ensuring the 
reliability of the web site. In addition, some 
application modules, including Event Recorder, 
Statistical Application, Data Mining, and other 
complementarily functional modules would be 
appended to strengthen the usability of the platform. 
Through the development, the departments in 
semiconductor manufacturing company could be 
 4
 
Figure 2 Diagram of component layers in SCSOA 
The diagram is modified from the reference 
model of SOA proposed in IEEE. More specifically, 
the architecture is first defined within the range of 
intranet using virtual private network for imitating 
the environment in a corporation, and that will be 
mentioned later. Under this concept, the data 
transmission among all the servers or client-server 
would be protected and covered privately. Besides 
VPN, it is also guarded by Secure Socket Layer 
(SSL). The above two subjects mainly deal with 
security issues. After the confirmation of user 
profiles and identity verification, the system gets into 
the tiers of SCSOA. To begin with, the users in the 
Consumer part would visit the web portal and user 
interfaces of SCSOA. While browsing with 
pre-defined business processes, the users could have 
those functionalities and sequence of services in 
mind roughly. At the same time, once there is a 
request for novel services, resulting in maiden 
business processes, the system managers would be 
apprised and react within the shortest time interval. 
As soon as the modification of provided services, 
which are also correlated to the layers of Service 
Components and Operation System, the description 
or algorithm in those two would be corrected in the 
meanwhile. Therefore, the construction of data 
models for the architecture of SCSOA seems to be 
significant, for easier web management. 
At the integration point of view, traditional 
forms of SOA apply web services as communication 
engines among servers and mobile agents, even with 
other web services. In SCSOA, an additional term of 
Socket will be noticed and its usage within SCSOA 
as well. 
B Security Mechanisms 
VPN is a network that provides 
inter-connectivity to exchange information among 
various entities belonging to the VPN [5]. VPN 
makes secured communication cheaper and it is 
established by means of secure communication paths 
which are called “tunnels”. Each tunnel has two 
ends, one on either side, or one in each of the two 
separate networks. All the traffic from site A to site 
B must go through this tunnel. All the traffic 
between the ends of the tunnels is encrypted in turn, 
resulting in the secure data transmission. 
To act as a virtual Intranet of an enterprise, 
SCSOA system defines its empowered domains in 
the range of “140.112.14.xx” to “140.112.14.1xx”. 
All of the Logins within the range between the 
domains are deemed as the employees of the 
enterprise, or the enrolled members of SCSOA 
information platform. In other words, if the web 
requester is out of the domain range, the connection 
to SCSOA would be broken and the user becomes 
unable to access the system. Through the protection 
and filtering of VPN, all of the data transmission, 
application functionalities, and database storages 
could be defended from the attack of hacker or virus 
preliminarily. 
Secure Socket Layer (SSL) is the most popular 
protocol used in Internet for facilitating secure 
communication [1]. It is a web-based protocol used 
for securing data exchanges over the Internet [6]. In 
SCSOA-SSL mechanism, the system puts Self-SSL 
into use. Under this formation, RSA with 1024 bits 
of public key is applied. SCSOA acts as a server side 
of SSL, so that once the users wish to get on to the 
system, the URL for linking to SCSOA will start 
with https:// instead of http://.  
An improved VPN system based on SSL 
protocol can overwhelm the defects of the traditional 
VPN and enhance the security of VPN system [2]. 
To improve the security better, a SSL proxy server 
should be set behind the enterprise firewall in VPN. 
Thus, in SCSOA, the system is equipped with both 
VPN (SCSOA-VPN) and SSL (SCSOA-SSL) in 
order to reinforce the security guard besides the 
traditional firewall. SCSOA-VPN and SCSOA-SSL 
also behave as two vanguards of the system. By this 
protection, the data transmitted through SCSOA 
could be more complete and safe from hackers or 
virus, resulting in a comparatively reliable and 
unadventurous web system. 
Cookies are general mechanisms which server 
side connections (such as CGI scripts) can use to 
both store and retrieve information on the client side 
of the connection. The addition of a simple and 
persistent client-side state significantly extends the 
capabilities of web-based client/server applications 
[4]. 
Since SCSOA is proposed to be a reliable and 
secure web site, except for SCSOA-VPN and 
SCSOA-SSL, there should be a means to handle the 
safety of cookies in client side. In terms of recent 
usages of cookies, SCSOA utilizes AES as a 
cryptology of http cookies. AES in the system is 
mainly coped with the access account and password 
of the members in SCSOA. Once the user types 
correct and permitted user names and passwords, the 
auto-generated http cookies stored in the client side 
would be as Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3 Diagram of cryptology in http cookies 
Through the application of three security 
mechanisms mentioned above, including 
 6
remote diagnostic system provided as the distributed 
service agents (manufacturing, decision support, and 
quality control departments in this organization) and 
web services on the SCSOA system respectively. 
 
 
3.1.2 Accomplishment 2: Developing Automatic 
Layout System for IC Layout Design 
For solving the layout problem, systematic layout 
planning (SLP) process flow and genetic algorithm 
(GA) are implemented to solve this layout problem 
and construct the automatic layout system. Designers 
can acquire the suitable layout pattern immediately 
from automatic layout system. It is expected to help 
reduce IC product development time and improve 
traditional analog IC layout which is only depending 
on designer’s experience and expertise. The system 
architecture is shown in Figure 8. 
 
Figure 8 System Architecture 
In this research, we take three factors that are 
chip area, IO-relationship and power consumption 
into consideration for layout design problem. 
l Chip Area 
The chip area is the most common factor to the 
designers because the less chip area usually brings 
the less manufacturing cost. Therefore, numerous 
researches had dealt with this issue. 
In this research, core chip area is defined as the 
minimum area which can include all required 
components, and the core chip area factor is 
transferred to the chip area utility ratio as (1). 
AreaChipCore
UnittArrangemenofArea
RatioUtilityArea
AUofNumber
i
iå
== 1  (1)  
Thus, the range of core chip area utility ratio 
will between 0 and 1. The higher area utility ratio 
means higher availability and lower waste of chip 
area. 
l IO-relationship 
Since layout process deals with the placement of 
components, it is very important to think about the 
routing or components input/output issue in the 
layout phase. Actually, most designers will place the 
components which have important connectivity 
together to ensure the performance of their own 
design. 
This research treats the components input/output 
issue as the IO-relationship factor which means the 
input/output relationship and wire length between 
two components. Before the IO-relationship 
definition, some assumptions must declare as 
following. 
#Assumption 1: All of the input or output ports 
are located at the center point of the component. 
Thus, each component has only one point (the center 
point) to represent its input/output port position and 
the distance between two components can be 
simplified as the distance between two points in a 
two-dimension plate. 
#Assumption 2: The wire length or distance 
between two components is computed by Manhattan 
distance. The distance between two points measured 
along axes at right angles. For example, in a 
two-dimension plane with point1 at (x1,y1) and 
point2 at (x2,y2), the Manhattan distance is 
|x1-x2|+|y1-y2|. Therefore, the distance between two 
components can be defined as their Manhattan 
distance [1]. 
l Power Consumption 
Power consumption can be affected by various 
factors including the way of routing, thermal noise of 
each components, and etc. In this research, the heat 
value produced by the thermal noise of each 
component is considered as the power consumption 
factor.  
Since each component has its heat value 
produced by the thermal noise, the position of 
components may have a great impact on the 
performance of the chip. For example, when the 
components with high heat value are placed together, 
these components compose a hot zone of the chip 
which may cause the defeat of chip performance. 
The goal of this factor is to minimize the heat 
value of hot zones within the chip. To achieve the 
goal, some assumptions must declare as following. 
#Assumption 1: Any two components placed 
together can be viewed as a hot zone. The heat value 
between two components is the sum of the heat value 
of these two components. 
Thus, the heat value of a hot zone can be 
defined as the sum of the heat of two components 
divided by the sum of the heat of all components 
#Assumption 2: MaxHeatValue is defined as the 
highest heat value of a hot zone from all hot zones 
we acquired in assumption 1. 
Thus, MaxHeatValue must come from the two 
neighboring components which have high heat 
values. The power consumption factor tries to 
minimize the MaxHeatValue, which means to 
average the chip’s heat. If we can minimize the 
MaxHeatValue by avoiding placing two components 
with high thermal noise together, we can average the 
chip’s heat. 
After defining and normalizing three factors, the 
evaluation function in SLP will be transferred into the 
fitness function of the GA computing approach 
l Automatic Layout System 
Automatic layout system is developed for 
providing IC designers a fast and easy method to do 
the layout. First, designer can input the required 
