行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 □ 成 果 報 告   ■期中進度報告 
 
藍/紫光發光元件磊晶及製程之研究(2/3) 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  95－2221－E－009－282－ 
執行期間： 95 年08 月01 日至96 年07 月31 日 
 
計畫主持人：王興宗 教授 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： ：盧廷昌、黃根生 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
J出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列
管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立交通大學光電工程研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  九十六  年  五  月  二十四  日 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
III–V nitrides are of great interest for using in blue/green and ultraviolet 
light-emitting diodes (UVLEDs) and laser diodes (LDs) [1–4]. The UVLEDs with 
emission wavelengths in 300–390nm range are ideal pumps for fluorescent display 
devices. This is one of the most promising ways for producing solid state white light. 
Short wavelength UV light can be additionally used in applications such as optical 
data storage, microscopes, and lithography instruments. In most cases, these 
nitride-based UVLEDs were grown on sapphire substrates. Although nitride-based 
UVLEDs have been developed for several years, many problems still remain to be 
solved. For example, large mismatches in lattice constants between GaN epitaxial 
layers and the underneath sapphire substrates result in and epitaxial layer with poor 
quality. It has also been shown that GaN-based UVLEDs often suffer from 
electrostatic discharge (ESD) due to the insulating nature of sapphire substrates [5,6]. 
Normally a thin low-temperature (LT) GaN nucleation layer prior to the epitaxial 
growth was deposited to overcome a relatively large lattice mismatch [1,2]. 
However, the large dislocation density still remains to hinder the performance of 
devices. In order to reduce dislocation density further, the epitaxial lateral 
overgrowth (ELO) was proposed to grow a 2–3 mm-thick GaN layer on a sapphire 
substrate prior to the sample patterning and then regrowth [7]. However, such a 
procedure is relatively complex that inevitably results in a low production yield. 
Recently, it has been reported that one can reduce the defect density in nitride-based 
epitaxial layers using GaN–SiN as the nucleation layer [8–15]. Many 
nanometer-sized porous SiN layer probably serves to enhance the lateral growth, 
which is quite similar to that in ELO to reduce dislocation density. On the other 
hand, polarization-induced electric fields between the AlGaN and GaN lead to a 
significant increase of the sheet carrier concentration and narrower confinement of 
the two-dimensional electron gases (2DEGs). Such a 2DEG can be used to spread 
the current effectively, and this AlGaN/GaN heterostructure can also be used to 
confine the holes, which escaped from MQW. Thus, the injection current overflow 
was diminished and the light emission efficiency was greatly improved [16]. In this 
paper, the UVLEDs with a SiN buffer layer and an AlGaN insertion layers were 
prepared. Physical, optical, and electrical properties of the fabricated UVLEDs with 
different underlying GaN layers will also be reported. 
 
EXPERIMENTS 
 
Samples used in this paper were all grown on c-face (0001) 2-in sapphire substrates 
by metalorganic chemical vapor deposition. During the growth, trimethylgallium 
(TMGa), trimethylindium (TMIn), trimethylaluminum (TMAl), and ammonia (NH3) 
were used as the gallium, indium, aluminum, and nitrogen sources, respectively. 
Biscyclopentadienyl magnesium (Cp2Mg) and silane (SiH4) were used as the p-type 
and n-type doping sources, respectively. Prior to the epitaxial growth, the sapphire 
define the devices are not live in which the leakage current is larger than 1 μA in the 
reverse voltage region even through the UVLED survived at this reverse ESD pulse 
voltage. The live percentage of sample I decreased from 82% to 72% when the 
negative bias increases from 100 to 200 V, and then decreased slowly to 67% when 
the negative bias increased further to 3000 V. The live percentage of sample II was 
about 95% at initial negative bias of 100V and remained 82% at negative bias of 
3000 V. The improved ESD characteristics of the UVLED with AlGaN insertion 
layer could be due to higher current tolerance and the reduced strain between the 
GaN layer and sapphire substrate. The live percentage of sample III was about 97% 
at initial negative bias of 100V and remained 86% at negative bias of 3000 V. The 
highest ESD survival rate in sample III was probably the results of further improved 
GaN quality with lower TD density. 
Fig. 4 shows the reverse voltage versus current characteristics of sample I, II, 
and III. It is found that the leakage currents of all UVLEDs at -5V were in the order 
of magnitude of 10-8 A. The leakage current of sample III is the lowest about 
1.1x10-8 A. Fig. 5 shows the effects of injection current on the light output power of 
UVLED samples. The light output powers of sample II and III were greater than 
conventional sample I at an injection current of 20 mA, respectively. The light 
output powers of sample II and III increased 25% and 70% more than sample I, 
respectively. Fig. 6 shows the electroluminescence spectra of three LED samples at 
the injection current of 20 mA. The three UVLED samples showed the same EL 
peak of 385 nm since the growth conditions of active region of multiple quantum 
wells were the same. In addition, sample III showed a narrower full width at half 
maximum (FWHM) of spectrum (about 11 nm) than that of the sample I (about 15 
nm). The surface morphology of n-type GaN has been improved by inserting SiN 
buffer layer. The narrower FWHM of sample III should be related to more uniform 
indium distribution than that of sample I. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
In conclusion, we studied the effects of an AlGaN insertion layer and SiN buffer 
of UVLEDs on the efficiency and ESD characteristics of UVLED samples. For the 
optimized AlGaN insertion layer and SiN buffer, the leakage currents of all 
UVLEDs at -5V were in the order of magnitude of 10-8 A.Meanwhile, the light 
output power of UVLED increase 70% compared with the conventional UVLED 
sample. The live percentage of UVLED remains about 86% at negative bias of 
3000V higher than that of conventional UVLED sample of 67%. PEC etching 
confirmed that the improvement of the optical properties was accompanied by a 
reduction in the dislocation density. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Leakage current as function of reverse voltage of UVLED 
samples I, II, and III. 
Fig. 5. The effect of injection 
current on the light output power of 
UVLED samples I, II, and III. 
Fig. 6. The electronic emission 
spectra of UVLED samples I, II, and 
III at an injection current of 20 mA. 
該計畫已有論文發表如下: 
 
[1] G.S. Huang, H. H. Yao, T. C. Lu, H.C. Kuo, and S. C. Wang, “Aluminum  
   incorporation into AlGaN grown by low-pressure metalorganic vapor phase 
   epitaxy”, J. Appl. Phys., V99, 104901, (24 May, 2006) 
[2] Y. J. Lee, J.M.Hwang, T. C. Hsu, M. H. Hsieh, M. J. Jou, B. J. Lee, T.C. Lu, 
   H.C. Kuo, and S.C. Wang, “Enhancing Output Power of GaN-based LEDs 
   Grown on Chemical Wet Etching Patterned Sapphire Substrate”, Photon. Tech.  
   Lett., V18, No.10, pp1152-1155, (May, 2006) 
[3] Te-Chung Wang, Hao-Chung Kuo, Tien-Chang Lu, Ching-En Tsai, Min-Ying  
   Tsai, Jung-Tsung Hsu, Jer-Ren Yang, “Study of InGaN multiple Quantum Dots 
    by MOCVD”, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 45, No. 4B, pp. 3560-3563  
    (April, 25, 2006) 
[4] Hung-Wen Huang, Jung-Tang Chu, Chih-Chiang Kao, Tao-Hung Hsueh,  
   Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, and Shing-Chung Wang, “Enhanced Light  
   Output in InGaN/GaN Light Emitting Diodes with Excimer Laser Etching  
   surfaces”, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 45, No. 4B, pp. 3442-3445, (April, 25, 2006) 
[5] Y. J. Lee, J.M.Hwang, T. C. Hsu, M. H. Hsieh, M. J. Jou, B. J. Lee, T.C. Lu, 
   H.C. Kuo, and S.C. Wang, “GaN-based LEDs with Al-Deposited V-Shape  
   Sapphire Facet Mirror”, Photon. Tech. Lett, V18, No.5, pp724-726,  
   (March, 2006) 
[6] Yi-An Chang, Sheng-Horng Yen, Te-Chung Wang, Hao-Chung 
   Kuo ,Yen-Kuang Kuo, Tien-Chang Lu, and Shing-Chung Wang “Experimental  
   and Theoretical Analysis on Ultraviolet 370-nm AlGaInN Light-Emitting  
   Diodes”, Semicon. Sci. Tech., V21, pp598-603 (21 March, 2006)  
[7] H. H. Yao, T. C. Lu, G. S. Huang, C. Y. Chen, W. D. Liang, H. C. Kuo and S. C.  
   Wang, ”InGaN self-assembled quantum dots grown by metalorganic  
   chemical-vapor deposition with interruption growth”, NanoTechnology, V17, 
   pp1713-1716, (27 Feb 2006)  
[8] G.S. Huang, T. C. Lu, H. H. Yao, H.C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, Chih-wei Lin and Li 
   Chang “Crack-free GaN/AlN distributed Bragg reflectors incorporated with  
   GaN/AlN superlattices grown by metal-organic chemical vapor deposition”,  
   Appl. Phys. Lett., V88, 061904, (Feb, 2006) 
[9] Y. J. Lee, T.C. Lu, H.C. Kuo, S.C. Wang, M. J. Liou, C.W. Chang, T. C. Hsu,  
   M. H. Hsieh, M. J. Jou, and B. J. Lee, “High Brightness AlGaInP-based Light  
   Emitting Diodes with the Stripe Patterned Omni-Directional Reflector”, 
   Semicon. Sci. Tech., V11, pp1-6, (Feb, 2006)  
[10] Y. J. Lee, T.C. Lu, H.C. Kuo, S.C. Wang, M. J. Liou, C.W. Chang, T. C. Hsu,  
    M. H. Hsieh, M. J. Jou, and B. J. Lee, “AlGaInP LEDs with Stripe Patterned  
    Omni-Directional Reflector”, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., V45(2A), pp643-645,  
    (Feb, 2006) 
[11] Te-Chung Wang, Hao-Chung Kuo, Zheng-Hong Lee, Chang-Cheng Chuo,  
CLEO2007 會議報告 
1. 參加會議經過                                               王興宗撰 
     這次的會議是 2007 年雷射及光電會議與量子及雷射科學會議(2006 
Conference on Laser and Electro-Optics (CLEO) and Quantum Electronics and 
Laser Science Conference (QELS))，是由美國光學協會（Optical Society of 
America）每年所舉辦的議程。研討會舉辦的地點由東岸和西岸輪流舉行，去年
是在西岸的長堤舉行，今年則是從五月六日至五月十一日在美國東岸的巴爾地摩
（Baltimore）所舉行。此次研討會總共發表論文篇數將近一千篇（含壁報摘要），
包含有多個議程主題於六天會議中分開討論。筆者在會議中發表一篇口頭演講論
文。內容關於高效率氮化鎵藍光發光二極體的製造與特性分析。本次會議有關於
高效率的藍光發光二極體的論文數與參加的研究學者都較往年要多，因此可以在
會議中瞭解到目前其他實驗室在相關領域的研究成果，且有較佳的互動。 
會議的第一天為註冊與演講者的檔案準備。第二日早上有筆者實驗室的同仁
的演講，題目分別為微型共振腔的氮化鎵發光二極體與利用奈米柱提升發光二極
體效率相關的論文，都引起在座聆聽的學者的高度興趣。筆者的演講時間為第三
天早上，也引起了相關學者的研究討論。本次實驗室共有四篇口頭論文報告與一
篇壁報展示，對本實驗室在過去的研究成果是一種肯定，也是鼓勵本實驗室繼續
努力的一股動力。在研討會進行的五天中，除了有很多精彩的演講外，大會並安
排有一些短期的課程，一樣是邀請世界上相當傑出的研究員對其研究領域作深入
淺出的演講，即使是對該領域陌生的學生也能在短時間內，對該主題有大概的瞭
解，這不僅使得與會者能就自己熟悉的領域作深入研究外，更能同時瞭解一些自
己不常接觸的領域，對與會者有相當大的幫助。 
而除了各領域的論文發表之外，大會也有舉辦大型展覽，展覽會場包括各家
光電設備公司以及國外大書商的攤位，一些知名的廠商也都來參展，其中有相當
多是量測設備的展示，從各大廠商的展示品可以看出目前量測設備的精度與種類
