intersymbol interference (ISI) in single-carrier block transmission, 
technology for mitigating multiple synchronization errors, space-
time coded transmission technology and cooperative space-time 
coded transmission technology, and various relay transmission 
technologies. In the area of practical implementation, the research 
topics and achievements in this year include DSP software 
implementations of an initial downlink synchronization technique 
and a channel estimation technique, as well as an implementation 
platform for wireless communication transceiver experiments that 
houses an FPGA, a DSP, and a central control unit. This report first 
gives a brief introduction to the overall project. Then it describes the 
research topics and results of the individual subprojects and the 
main project in separate chapters. 
 
 II
Abstract 
This integrated project is aimed at research in signal transmission technologies suitable 
for next-generation mobile communication systems. The span of the project is two years. 
The present report is the final report for the second project year. The research in this project 
can be divided into two broad directions: practical and basic. The former is concerned with 
studies based on IEEE 802.16e/j/m or 3GPP LTE standards, where the emphasis is on 
developing signal transmission technologies related to these standards. The latter is 
concerned with more fundamental and forward-looking broadband signal transmission 
technologies that are not necessarily tightly coupled with the signal formats of the above 
standards. There are five subprojects in this integrated project, of which two emphasize 
downlink transmission technologies, two emphasize uplink transmission technologies, and 
the remaining one considers integrated utilization of the wireless resource. Besides 
theoretical and algorithmic research, the main project and two subprojects also separately 
conduct some research regarding design and construction of experimental implementation 
platforms, hardware design, and digital signal processor (DSP) real-time software 
implementation. In the area of theory and algorithms, the research topics and achievements 
in this year include cell search technology, ranging technology, decoding technology of 
low-density parity-check (LDPC) codes, technology for mitigating intercarrier interference 
(ICI) in multicarrier transmission, technology for mitigating intersymbol interference (ISI) 
in single-carrier block transmission, technology for mitigating multiple synchronization 
errors, space-time coded transmission technology and cooperative space-time coded 
transmission technology, and various relay transmission technologies. In the area of 
practical implementation, the research topics and achievements in this year include DSP 
software implementations of an initial downlink synchronization technique and a channel 
estimation technique, as well as an implementation platform for wireless communication 
transceiver experiments that houses an FPGA, a DSP, and a central control unit. This report 
first gives a brief introduction to the overall project. Then it describes the research topics 
and results of the individual subprojects and the main project in separate chapters. 
 
Keywords: IEEE 802.16e/j/m, Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiplexing (OFDM), 
Orthogonal Frequency-Division Multiple Access (OFDMA), Cell Search, Ranging, 
Low-Density Parity-Check (LDPC) Code, Intercarrier Interference (ICI), Intersymbol 
Interference (ISI), Synchronization, Multi-Input Multi-Output (MIMO) Transmission, 
Space-Time Coding, Cooperative Communication, Relay, Implementation 
 
 IV 
 
 
 2 
BS(這也就是目前行動通訊系統的一般架構，是故此示意圖可說亦涵蓋目前的行動通訊系
統架構)。但一方面這樣的情況比圖中所示者單純，二方面若也顯示直接連接的情況，會使
示意圖太複雜。所以我們只顯示 MS 經 RS 連上 BS 的情況。此系統最複雜的運作情境，是
各 BS、各 RS、和各 MS 都可以有多支天線，而多個 BS 可以同時向多個 RS 傳送訊號(即
downlink multiuser MIMO 加上 downlink network MIMO 或 downlink coordinated multi-point 
[CoMP])或同時接收從多個 RS 傳來的訊號(即 uplink multiuser MIMO 加上 uplink network 
MIMO 或 uplink CoMP)，且多個 RS 也可以同時向多個 MS 同時傳送訊號或同時接收從多
個 MS 傳來的訊號。若是 RS 具有雙向傳收功能(有人稱之為 two-way RS)，則各 BS 和各
MS 又可以同時向各 RS 傳送訊號，而各 RS 也可以同時向各 BS 和各 MS 傳送訊號。然而
以上最複雜的運作情境，在目前只是一個長程的研究方向，預期還要不少年以後才會趨於
實用。較短期內可以實用化的運作情境，也就是第四代行動通訊系統可行的運作方式，會
比此最複雜的情境要簡單。 
本整合型計畫的主要目的即在研究第四代乃至更以後的行動通訊系統適用的訊號傳收
技術。本計畫就研究規劃而言係為期三年，就核定程序而言則共分兩次核定，其中第一次
獲核定一年(2008/8/1-2009/7/31)，第二次則續獲得核定兩年(2009/8/1-2011/7/31)。本報告係
第二次核定後，最後一年度的期末報告。在第一次核定之計畫中，全計畫共含四個子計畫，
而第二次核定之計畫則含五個子計畫(較第一次多了子計畫二)。五個子計畫中，兩者(子計
畫一、二)重在研究下行傳收技術，兩者(子計畫三、四)重在研究上行傳收技術，另一者(子
計畫五)則研究無線資源之整合使用。除理論與演算法研究外，總計畫、子計畫一、及子計
畫三亦各從事若干實驗實作平台設計與建構、硬體設計、與數位訊號處理器(DSP)即時軟體
實現之研究。Fig. 1-2 以一個 OFDM 形式的傳收系統來簡示並說明計畫結構。 
 
 
Fig. 1-2. 以一個典型之 OFDM 系統傳收器架構來簡示本計畫結構。其中總計畫另從事實驗
實作平台的設計與建構，子計畫一和二著重研究下行傳收技術，子計畫三和四著重研究上
行傳收技術，而子計畫五則研究無線資源之整合使用。 
 
實作性研究之外，本整合型計畫在理論與演算法方面的研究可分為實用與基本兩大
 4 
4. 子計畫四：干擾消除技術研究(其中處理之干擾包括符際干擾、載波間干擾、同通道干
擾、異系統干擾)等。 
5. 子計畫五：分散式時空編碼傳輸技術研究等。 
6. 總計畫：初步設計完成一個數位訊號處理器與可程式邏輯閘陣列並用的系統實現驗證
平台。 
 
二、子計畫一：高效能合作式下行多輸出入正交分頻多工接取之多工及分集
技術設計(2/2) 
此子計畫在本年度進行了以下幾方面的研究，並有成果：雙向中繼星座圖壓縮方法、
多方向中繼之網路編碼技術、低密度奇偶校驗碼(LDPC)解碼技術、及 LTE 細胞搜尋技術。
為行文方便，以下部份內容用中文，部份用英文。 
A. 雙向中繼之星座圖壓縮 
近年來之研究已證明了使用中繼節點輔助資料的傳輸可得到許多好處。例如透過多個
中繼節點之間的合作可達成空間多工(spatial diversity)之效果、可使用較小的成本提高用較
小的成本提高系統的覆蓋率等等皆為使用中繼節點之好處。 
 
1S
R
2S
1h
1,2h
2h
 
Fig. 2-1. 雙向中繼通道示意圖。 
 
如 Fig. 2-1 所示，若不使用網路編碼，S1 與 S2 之間總共需要四次資料傳輸以完成一個
符碼的交換，第一次與第二次的傳輸分別為令 S1 將符碼傳送給中繼點 R，R 將接收到的訊
號加以處理後前送給 S2；第三次與第四次的傳輸則是令 S2 將其符碼傳送給 R，R 將接收到
的訊號前送給 S1。應用網路編碼之原理與無線通訊廣播的特性，可使所需之傳輸數降低為
2 次：假設 S1 傳送之符碼為 x1，S2 傳送之符碼為 x2，若令 S1 與 S2 同時傳送訊號給 R，由於
電磁波在空間中同一點相遇時會線性疊加之特性，R 會接收到 
 1 1 2 2R ry h x h x n= + +  (2-1) 
其中 hi為 Si 與 R 之間的通道係數(channel coefficient)，nr 則為白色高斯雜訊。假設 S1 與 S2
之間不存在直接的連結(direct link)，即 h1,2 = 0。在第二傳輸中，R 將此訊號廣播給 S1 與 S2。
由於對 S1 而言，x1 已知，若假設各通道係數已知，則 S1 可由(2-1)解得 x2，相同的，S2 也可
由(2-1)解得 x1。利用此技術，可提高雙向中繼通道的資料交換效率。 
雖然網路編碼可以提高雙向中繼通道的資料交換效率，但是卻也同時放大了中繼節點
傳輸訊號之星座圖，例如，假設 S1 與 S2 皆使用 2-PAM 調變，則 x1 與 x2 分別會有兩種可能
的值，因此其線性組合 x1 + x2 則會產生出四種可能的值，為維持系統傳輸之效能，R 必需
放大其傳輸能量。文獻[1]提出了此現象可透過使用一函數重新對應(re-mapping)此星座圖來
解決。其文中所使用的函數是基於 x1 + x2 之絕對值來將編碼過後的訊號從新對應到新的星
 6 
中|h1|固定為 1，當|h2|下降時，所提之方法與[1]之方法的效能皆會下降，其中當 ∆θ = π/4 時，
其影響更為明顯。由模擬之結果可看出，當 ∆θ 較小時所提出之方法可以降低中繼端點所
需之傳輸能量，但隨 ∆θ 增大時，效能會受到影響。如何結合此方法與預編碼技術以進一
步提高效能將是接下來可努力之方向。 
 
0 5 10 15
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
SNR(dB)
SE
R
 
 
|h1| = |h2| = 1, Proposed, 4QAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.9, Proposed, 4QAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.7, Proposed, 4QAM
|h1| = |h2| = 1, [19], 4PAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.9, [19], 4PAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.7, [19], 4PAM
0 5 10 15
10−2
10−1
100
SNR(dB)
SE
R
 
 
|h1| = |h2| = 1, [19], 4QAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.9, [19], 4QAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.7, [19], 4QAM
|h1| = |h2| = 1, [19], 4PAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.9, [19], 4PAM
|h1| = 1, |h2| = 0.7, [19], 4PAM
 
Fig. 2-4. 通道增益不對稱且時之效能。左：∆θ = 0，右：∆θ = π/4。Legends 中的[19]即本章
參考文獻[1]。 
 
B. 多方向中繼之網路編碼技術 
假設在一個網路中具有 N 個傳送端，若不使用網路編碼之技術，而將任意兩個傳送端
的組合構成一個雙向中繼通道，則此網路上共可找出 N(N -1)種組雙向中繼通道，即會需要
2N(N-1)個時間區間來完成符碼之交換，但由於無線通訊具有廣播之特性，因此不需要在這
2N(N-1)個雙向中繼通道中皆進行一次符碼之交換。 
令 Si，i=1,2…N 為此網路中之 N 個傳送端，而 xi 表示由 Si 所送出之符碼，若將此符碼
序列以向量之形式表示，可寫成 
 
1 2[ ]
T
nx x x=δ ⋯  (2-4) 
若可找到一組編碼向量(coding vector)如下式之 F 所示，則編碼後資料可如下式之∆所示： 
 
2
m
 
 
 =
 
 
 
1
f
f
F
f
⋮
,  
1
2
m
 
 
 = =
 
 
 
f δ
f δ
∆ Fδ
f δ
⋮
. (2-5) 
若 F 在 Si 為可逆之矩陣(invertible matrix)，則 Si 即可完整的解出 δ 向量之值，此時 m 必須
等於 n。在 N 向中繼通道中(N-way relay channel)，假設各通道係數對所有 Si 皆為已知，且
由於對 Si 而言 xi 為已知，因此由(2-4)和(2-5)可知，只需在經由中繼節點構成 N – 1 個線性
獨立之網路編碼之符碼，即可讓 Si 解得其餘的 N – 1 個符碼。其中一種可行之編碼序列為： 
 8 
作下一世代的母代。經過一連串的 belief reliability 突變機制之後，再將此突變結果各做一
次 1-iteration MP 解碼來把突變的資訊傳遞到整個個體，組成新世代(子代)的基因池。接著
依先前所提到的 fitness 計算方法從新世代的基因池中挑出菁英子代。我們發現往往只要更
新通道值(channel value)某些關鍵位元的數值，MP 解碼演算法即可正確解碼。因此，我們
以此菁英解每個 bit 的信賴值大小來決定是否更新某個 bit 的通道值。更新了通道值之後，
我們重新執行 MP 解碼，並以解碼結果來當作下一世代的母代。接著反覆執行上述步驟直
到世代次數到達設定值或者滿足提早終止條件。Fig. 2-6 為所提出的 GA-MP 流程圖。 
 
 
Fig. 2-6. 提出的 GA-MP 流程圖。 
 
 
Fig. 2-7. GA-MP 與 Super ML 效能比較。 
 
 10
  (2-9) 
and the basic CERCD method is given by 
  with  (2-10) 
where *, ( ) ( ) ( )i m mM k Y k P k= , ar is the coefficient of a signal smoother, and R is the length of the 
smoother. Several slightly different flavors of the CERCD methods (designated I, II, and III) 
have been developed, as well as corresponding flavors of the DA method (also designated I, II, 
and III). The details are omitted. 
Fig. 2-8 shows some simulation results. It is seen that the CERCD methods outperform the 
DA methods. 
E. 本章參考文獻 
[1] Tao Cui, Tracey Ho, and Jorg Kliewer, “Memoryless relay strategies for two-way relay 
channels,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 57, no. 10, Oct. 2009. 
[2] Toshiaki Koike-Akino, Petar Popovski, and Vahid Tarokh, “Optimized constellaions for 
two-way wireless relaying with physical network coding,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 
27, no. 6, pp. 773-787, June 2009. 
[3] Z. Deng, L. Xingcheng, and T. Man, “Modified BP decoding algorithms combined with GA 
for low-density parity check codes,” Int. Conf. Computational Intelligence and Security, 
2008. 
[4] N. Varnica, P. C. Marc, and K. Aleksandar, “Augmented belief propagation decoding of 
low-density parity check codes,” IEEE Trans. Commun., pp. 1308–1317, 2007. 
[5] Chih-Liang Chen and Sau-Gee Chen, “Non-Coherent Cell Identification Detection Methods 
and Statistical Analysis for OFDM Systems,” IEEE Trans. Comm., vol. 58, no. 11, pp. 
3231-3243, Sep. 2010. 
 
三、子計畫二：合作式多輸出入下行考慮同步不確定之傳收器設計(2/2) 
The goal of this subproject is to solve issues caused by fading channels and synchronization 
errors arising from deploying broadband cooperative multi-input multi-output (MIMO) systems 
with highly mobile users. We address the problems from several perspectives and obtain some 
novel solutions. First, we develop an adaptive intercarrier interference (ICI) cancellation method. 
Secondly, we design a receiver which is extremely tolerant with synchronization errors when 
used in combination with common Alamouti schemes. And thirdly, we approach the problem of 
multiple synchronization errors via code design. Instead of viewing synchronization errors as 
impairments, we treat them as potential sources of diversity gain. A bit-interleaved coded 
 12
32×32 CFR matrix and cross-sections at three different subcarriers are shown in Fig. 3-1. Note 
that there is no uniform band structure in the CFR matrix; each subcarrier faces very different 
ICI situations. 
Fig. 3-2 shows our proposed receiver architecture utilizing an ICI indicator. The ICI 
equalizer can take a variety of different forms, including block and serial, linear and maximum a 
posteriori (MAP), etc. The per-subcarrier adaptive ICI equalizer adjusts its size setting (denoted 
Q) according to |∆k/Hk|. This way, substantial complexity reduction can be achieved with little 
performance loss. Fig. 3-3 illustrates the performance at two different conditions. 
 
 
Fig. 3-2. Per-subcarrier adaptive ICI cancellation framework. 
 
   
Fig. 3-3. BER performance comparisons for linear ICI equalizers under 1024-point FFT, 
64-QAM, and ITU Vehicular-A channel model. Left: at 350 km/h; right: at 500 km/h. 
 
B. Multiple Carrier Frequency Offsets in Cooperative Communications 
In this section, we study the transmission technology for space-frequency block coded 
(SFBC) OFDM systems in the context of cooperative communication with synchronization 
errors. In distributed MIMO systems, each transmitter may have different local oscillators and 
may not be either frequency or time synchronized, i.e., there exist multiple symbol timing offsets 
(STOs) and multiple carrier frequency offsets (CFOs). But the performance of OFDM systems is 
sensitive to frequency offsets, which can degrade significantly because of the ICI due to multiple 
CFOs (MCFOs). 
Consider a simplified cooperative transmission scheme with one source node, one 
 14
and Zhang’s method [3]. In both cases, iterative ICI cancellation is applied. Zhang’s method 
works fine when multiple CFOs is less than [0.2 -0.2], but degrades significantly and error floors 
appear as MCFOs get larger. On the other hand, our proposed receiver maintains the diversity 
order with a small SNR loss compared to the case with no MCFOs. The effect can be ascribed to 
the fact that ICI and ISI may be largely eliminated at the SFBC decoding stage. 
 
0 5 10 15 20 25
10
-6
10
-5
10
-4
10
-3
10
-2
10
-1
10
0
B
E
R
Eb/N0
 
 
Zhang's , MCFOs[0.2 -0.2]
Zhang's , MCFOs[0.25 -0.25]
Zhang's , MCFOs[0.3 -0.3]
Proposed , MCFOs[0.2 -0.2]
Proposed , MCFOs[0.25 -0.25]
Proposed , MCFOs[0.3 -0.3]
No MCFOs
 
Fig. 3-6. BER performance comparison between Zhang’s method [3] and the proposed algorithm 
under different multiple CFOs. 
 
C. BICM-OFDM to Combat Multiple Synchronization Errors 
In this section, we move on to a different perspective of combating synchronization errors in 
cooperative MIMO communications than that of the last section. We will view the 
synchronization errors not as impairments which cause performance degradation, but as potential 
sources of diversity gains. Through careful design of a BICM-based scheme and an iterative 
receiver, it will be shown that dramatic increase of diversity gain is actually achieved when 
severe synchronization errors exist. 
We adopt the decode-and-forward protocol for this section, and BICM-OFDM is chosen as 
the transmission technique. Fig. 3-7 shows a generic block diagram of a system employing 
BICM-OFDM. For the receiver, both minimum mean square error (MMSE) and maximum 
likelihood sequence estimation (MLSE) equalizers can be used. We focus on the design of MLSE 
receiver in the frequency domain and the overall receiver. The iterative receiver consists of a 
soft-input soft-output (SISO) MLSE demapper/equalizer and maximum a posteriori (MAP) 
decoders for both the precoder and the convolutional encoder. The soft outputs are typically 
represented by the log-likelihood ratio (LLRs). The signal detection in the demapper/equalizer is 
carried out with MLSE. 
 
 16
 
0 5 10 15
10
-5
10
-4
10
-3
10
-2
10
-1
10
0
SNR
B
E
R
 
 
M=2, CFOs=[0.2 -0.2] Iteration=5
M=3, CFOs=[0.2 0 -0.2] Iteration=5
 
Fig. 3-9. BER curves compared with difference number of relay nodes. 
 
Fig. 3-8 shows the BER performance comparison between conventional MMSE equalizer, 
traditional 1-tap equalizer and the MLSE equalizer in synchronous impairments. Normalized 
Doppler frequency fd = 0.001 is employed at both relays, the normalized MCFOs are 0.2 and -0.2. 
With the large MCFOs, the 1-tap equalizer suffers an obvious error floor. On contrast, the MLSE 
equalizer not only successfully compensates for the ICI but also obtain an SNR gain about 3 dB, 
which can be explained theoretically. Note that both equalizers can achieve full diversity. 
Fig. 3-9 shows the results for the two relay nodes and three relay nodes. It can be seen from 
the figure that as the number of relay increases in the systems, the diversity order of distributed 
BICM-OFDM increases up to the maximum diversity of min{M×rT×L,dfree}. It can be observed 
that the tree relays case has a diversity order of 5 and the BER curve is steep. 
In summary, BICM has the potential to improve performance with relative ease in many 
OFDM wireless communication systems. 
D. References for This Chapter 
[1] Y. Zhang, “Multiple CFOs compensation and BER analysis for co-operative communication 
systems,” in Proc. IEEE WCNC, pp. 1-6, Apr. 2009. 
[2] T. D. Nguyen, O. Berder, and O. Sentieys, “Efficient space time combination technique for 
unsynchronized cooperative MISO trans-mission,” IEEE VETECS’08, pp. 629-633, May 
2008. 
[3] W. Zhang, D. Qu, and G. Zhu, “Performance investigation of distributed STBC-OFDM 
system with multiple carrier frequency offsets,” in Proc. IEEE PIMRC, pp. 1-5, Sep. 2006. 
 
四、子計畫三：合作式多輸出入無線通訊之上行傳收器訊號處理技術研究(2/2) 
The research conducted in this subproject can be divided broadly into two parts: algorithm 
research and digital signal processor (DSP) software implementation research. In algorithm 
 18
  
Fig. 4-2. Error performance of 0 1( , )M M -PAM in AWGN at 0 1h = , with unit relay transmission 
power. Left: BER with (2,2)-PAM and 1 0.5h = ; right: SER with (2,4)-PAM and 1 0.33h = . 
 
B. IEEE 802.16m 上行測距技術研究 
Initial ranging is the procedure where a mobile station (MS) expresses desire to connect to a 
base station (BS). During initial ranging, an MS transmits a ranging signal according to the 
format and the opportunity provided by the BS. However, due to motion and other reasons, it is 
likely that the signal arrives at the BS with a time offset, a frequency offset, or a power offset 
that is outside the allowed range of operation. Upon detection of a ranging signal, the BS may 
have to initiate a procedure for communicating with the ranging MS to adjust these parameters 
and to acquire further identity information regarding the MS. The present study considers the 
detection of initial ranging signals. 
 
    
Fig. 4-3. Ranging channel formats and the ranging channel allocation corresponding to format 0. 
 
Fig. 4-3 shows the ranging channel formats in IEEE 802.16m. It also shows the ranging 
channel allocation for the format considered in this study. In our work, we have 1024bT = , 
128gT = , 10.9375f∆ =  kHz, 1 ( 1) / 2symk N= + , and 2 ( 4) / 2symk N= − , with 6symN = , which 
are a proper set of values under IEEE 802.16m. Fig. 4-4 shows the overall uplink (UL) 
transmitter and receiver system. We assume that there may be more than one user transmitting 
ranging signals at the same time. The receiver at the BS will collect 4096 samples of the received 
signal located in the middle of a signal subframe. We add the first 2048 points to the latter 2048 
points together to get r(n). The is because the ranging signal has a two-times repetition structure 
as shown in Fig. 4-3. After the timing offset estimation and ranging code detection blocks, the 
 20
still under four samples down to approximately –15 dB of SNR, which appears good enough for 
practical application. 
 
 
Fig. 4-6. Timing estimation accuracy with different numbers of ranging signals occupying the 
same ranging channel. The ranging signals experience different multipath wireless channels. 
 
 
Fig. 4-7. The proposed multiple-CFO estimation method. 
 
After detection of the ranging signals and estimation of their timing, we proceed to 
estimating their carrier-frequency-offsets (CFOs). The method is illustrated in Fig. 4-7, which 
has been motivated by [2]. Note that, in the UL, the ranging signals should be subject only to 
fractional CFO. In the figure, ( ) ( )mis n  denotes the interference-cancelled version of the ith 
ranging signal after the mth iteration. In each iteration, the CFO of the ith ranging signal is 
estimated as 
 
1
ˆ arg[ ( ) ( )]
2
i i i
n
y n y n Nε
π
= +∑ ,  1 i Q≤ ≤ . (4-2) 
Simulation results show that the method converges in less than or equal to 5 iterations, and the 
MSE in CFO estimation can be as low as 1% even in a very low SNR of –18 dB. 
C. IEEE 802.16m 多輸出入傳收技術研究 
 22
 
Fig. 4-10. Frame structure of IEEE 802.16m (adapted from [3, Fig. 566]). 
 
 
Fig. 4-11. Initial DL synchronization method [4]. 
 
We use Texas Instruments’ TMS320C6416T DSP in this work. It is a very-long instruction 
word (VLIW) processor with 8 parallel function units, wherein 2 can perform various kinds of 
memory accesses, 2 are multipliers, and the remaining 4 can perform a number of arithmetic and 
logic operations. We consider fixed-point computation and spend much effort to optimize the 
code. It turns out that, in the end, the “joint ICFO, PID, and fine timing searching” block shown 
in Fig. 4-11 takes the most computation because each search location requires an IFFT and we 
have assumed a very large range of possible integer carrier frequency offset (ICFO) of up to 
21±  subcarrier spacings. The resulting code fits comfortably in the 1 MB on-chip memory of 
the DSP. It takes about 1 Mcycles, of which about 83% is used for the abovementioned IFFTs. 
E. IEEE 802.16m 通道估計技術之數位訊號處理器軟體實現 
This work on DSP implementation of an IEEE 802.16m channel estimator is also based on 
our previous algorithm work [6],[7]. The algorithm is applicable to SISO (single-input 
single-output) as well as MIMO transmission, and to DL as well as UL transmission. 
To better appreciate the algorithm, Fig. 4-12 shows the typical structure of the IEEE 
 24
University, Feb. 2010. 
[5] P.-S. Wang, K.-W. Lu, D. W. Lin, and P. Ting, “Quasi-maximum likelihood initial downlink 
synchronization for IEEE 802.16m,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Signal Process. Advances 
Wireless Commun., June 2011, pp. 506-510. 
[6] Chih-Wei Wang, “LMMSE channel estimation for IEEE 802.16m and 802.16m OFDMA 
downlink,” M.S. thesis, Department of Electronics Engineering and Institute of Electronics, 
National Chiao Tung University, June 2009. 
[7] K.-C. Hung and D. W. Lin, ““Pilot-based LMMSE channel estimation for OFDM systems 
with power–delay profile approximation,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Tech., vol. 59, no. 1, pp. 
150-159, Jan. 2010. 
 
五、子計畫四：合作式多輸入輸出上行傳輸之干擾消除技術研究(2/2) 
Herein proposed is a zero-inserting precoder and a two-stage linear equalizer, to shorten the 
guard interval in block-based single-carrier modulation. The first-stage equalizer consists of a 
linear single-tap-per-subcarrier frequency-domain equalizer (FDE). The second-stage equalizer 
maximizes the signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR), in the time domain, based on the 
interference-plus-noise estimated from the zero-padded subintervals of the single-carrier 
modulation. The proposed interference cancellation scheme is able to mitigate the inter-block 
interference (IBI) and intersymbol interference (ISI) effect brought about by the reduction, or the 
elimination, of cyclic prefix (CP), and in addition, can significantly reduce the effect of overlaid 
interference, multiple access interference and additive noise. Monte Carlo simulations 
demonstrate this scheme's efficacy in lowering the bit-error rate (BER) despite an insufficient 
guard interval. 
A. Introduction 
Block based single-carrier (SC) transmission scheme has recently been proposed as an 
efficient transmission scheme for wireless communications. Its ability to offer the same 
advantages as OFDM without rendering high peak-to-average-power ratio (PAPR) has made it 
an attractive alternative to OFDM. Unfortunately, it too suffers from low spectrum efficiency due 
to the use of CP. Since OFDM and SC will coexist in 4G systems, such as LTE and LTE-A, it is 
of utmost importance to look at issues related to reduced guard interval equalization since 1) it 
will enhance spectrum efficiency, 2) it will save valuable power at the terminal in the uplink, and 
3) it will provide channel induced interference cancellation ability at the receiver. 
A variety of algorithms have been proposed to deal with reduced guard interval SC based 
systems. References [1]-[5] have proposed algorithms for reduced-CP based single-input 
single-output (SISO)-SC systems. [1] solves the problem of channel induced interference by 
using a simple loading scheme to eliminate ISI and IBI. However, it reduces the transmission 
rate. [2] proposes a block-by-block decision feedback equalization scheme which outperforms [1] 
in BER, but at increased computational cost. A CP-free detection scheme was proposed in [3] 
which completely eliminates the use of the CP in order to minimize transmission overhead. A 
 26
 
Hence, the received data have the kth symbol-block equal to 
 0 1 0 1( ) ( ) ( 1) ( ) ( ) ( 1) ( )cp cpk k k k k k k= + − + = + − +r H T u H T u H u H uɶ ɶ ɶη η , (5-3) 
where ( ) ( )0( )
N G N Gk C + × += ∈r Hɶ  represents a lower triangular Toeplitz matrix, with its first 
column being [ (0), (1),..., ( ),0,...,0]Th h h Q ; and ( ) ( )1
N G N GC + × +∈H  denotes an upper triangular 
Toeplitz matrix, with its first row as [0,...,0, ( ),..., (1)]h Q h . 
The receiver removes the CP, via [ ]cp N G N N× ×=R 0 I , from the received signal to yield the 
N-element vector 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( 1) ( )cp ISI IBI cpk k k k k k= = − + − +x R r Cu H u H u Rɶ η , (5-4) 
where 1IBI cp cp=H R H T , ISI IBI=H H P , and 0cp cp ISI= +C R H T H , with 
 
( )
( )
G N G G
N G N G G
× −
− − ×
 
=  
 
0 I
P
I 0
. (5-5) 
The N N×  matrix HN N=C W DW  is circulant, regardless of the relative magnitudes of G and 
Q. Moreover, the N N×  matrix D signifies the channel transfer function matrix, which is 
diagonal for G Q≥ , with its (k,k)th entry equl to the kth DFT coefficient of the channel impulse 
response { (0), (1),..., ( )}h h h Q  appended by ( 1)N Q− −  zeros. 
C. The Proposed Precoder-Equalizer Scheme 
The proposed zero-inserting precoder is as follows. To suppress the ISI and IBI, but with a 
length-G insufficient CP, [1] proposes inserting 2( )Q G−  zero-energy symbols to correspond to 
the Q G−  nonzero columns in IBIH  plus the Q G−  nonzero columns in ISIH . The present 
scheme will not incur this 2( )Q G− -symbol overhead, but deploys a guard interval (comprising 
zero-energy symbols, plus an optimal CP) that may be shorter than the channel impulse response. 
From the data received during the zero-energy symbol intervals, the proposed scheme estimates 
the combined effects of the signal-of-interest’s self-interference, of any multiple access user 
interference, of any overlaid interference, and of the additive noises. These denigrating effects 
are then subtracted from the information-bearing parts of the symbol block, via an 
SINR-maximizer in the receiver. This interference suppression approach philosophically 
resembles the null-subcarriers based methods in [7],[8] for OFDM, though the system 
architectures and the algorithmic details are very different. The present scheme can operate with 
any nonzero number of zero-energy symbols, with or without a CP. 
This zero-inserting precoding can be realized by an ( )N N P× −  precoding matrix zeroT , 
formed by inserting P all-zero rows into an ( ) ( )N P N P− × −  identity matrix. For example, 
 28
Next, form the ( )N P N− ×  matrix U to minimize the mean-squared error ξ between the 
signal-output from zeroR  and zeroJ , i.e., 
 
2
min 2
min min ( ) ( )zeroE k kξ ξ  = − U U i UJ y≜ , (5-9) 
where ( ) [ ( ) ( 1) ( )]Hzero N N ISI IBIk k k k− + − +i R W WW H u H u n≜  represents the interference and 
noises in the information-bearing symbols’ durations. The optimization in (5-9) can be solved via 
the principle of orthogonality, i.e., [ ( )( ( ) ( )) ] 0Hzero zeroE k k k− =UJ y i UJ y , to yield 
1
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ]
H H
zero k k zero zero k k zero
−= i i y yU R R J J R J , which may be pre-calculated offline using the prior 
knowledge that 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ){ ( )
H H H
k k N N ISI k k N N ISI=i i u uR W WW H R W WW H  
( 1) ( 1) ( ) ( )( ) ( ) }
H H H H
IBI k k N N IBI k k N N− −+ +u u n nH R W WW H R W WW . (5-10) 
Lastly, the ( )N P− -element transmitted symbol-vector s(k) is estimated by the receiver as 
ˆ( ) ( ) ( )zero zerok k= −s R UJ y . 
The real-time computational complexity of this proposed precoder-equalizer scheme is 
compared in Table 5-1 against the customary LMMSE-FDE (5-7) alone, without the precoder 
and without the SINR-maximizer, in terms of N and P. As W and U may be precomputed offline, 
while Tzero, Rzero, and Jzero involve no multiplication nor addition, these do not contribute to the 
real-time computational load. 
 
Table 5-1. Computational Complexity of Proposed Scheme and Customary LMMSE-FDE 
 
 
D. Monte Carlo Simulations 
The information-bearing symbols {s(k)} are modulated with equiprobable QPSK symbols. 
The transmitted signal has N = 64. The channel impulse response has Q + 1 = 11 complex-valued 
taps, each randomly generated and not cross-correlated among themselves. Each tap’s real-value 
part and imaginary-value part are not cross-correlated. Each tap is Gaussian, zero-mean. The qth 
tap has an exponentially decaying variance 
/ /2 (1 )s RMS s RMS
T T qT T
q e eσ
− −= −  for all 0,...,q Q= , where 
Ts denotes the sampling period and TRMS symbolizes the root-mean-square delay spread of the 
channel. The additive noise is complex-value, temporally uncorrelated, zero-mean, Gaussian, 
with a noise power of 2( ) ( )k kσ η η . 
 30
[5] A. Gusmao, P. Torres and R. Dinis, “A reduced-CP approach to SC/FDE block transmission 
for broadband wireless communications,” IEEE Trans. Communications, vol. 55(4), pp. 
801-809, Apr. 2007. 
[6] K. Hayashi, T. Kojima and Hideaki Sakai, “A new beamforming method for single carrier 
modulation system with cyclic prefix,” Proc. 6th Baiona Workshop on Communications, pp. 
75-80, Sep. 2003. 
[7] C. Y. Lin, J. Y. Wu and T. S. Lee, “A near-optimal low-complexity transceiver for CP-free 
multi-antenna OFDM systems,” IEICE Trans. Communications, vol. 89(1), pp. 88-99, Jan. 
2006. 
[8] Y.-R. Huang, C.C. Fung and K.T. Wong, “Interference suppression for OFDM systems with 
insufficient guard interval using null subcarriers,” IEEE Signal Processing Letters, vol. 
16(11), pp. 929-932, Nov. 2009. 
 
六、子計畫五：合作式多輸出入系統之時空編碼及資源管理(2/2) 
無線通訊中，在慢速衰弱通道環境下，多天線系統(MIMO)加上籬柵空時碼(space-time 
trelles code, STTC)是有效改善傳輸錯誤率的方案之一。手持設備因成本與尺寸考量問題，
往往僅有單一天線；傳送者欲使用多重天線的特性來幫助傳輸品質，可藉由合作式通訊達
到目的。典型的 DF (decode-and-forward)合作式通訊，傳送端先將訊號傳給中繼端群，中
繼端群將接收訊號解碼過後，再重新編碼傳至接收端。當傳送端與某一中繼端間通道的雜
訊干擾甚為嚴重時，中繼端解出的訊號易發生錯誤，此時中繼端假如對此錯誤訊號加以重
新編碼，再傳至接收端，會導致接收端解碼錯誤。本研究提出混合式籬柵解碼，來改善此
問題，使得接收端不至於完全喪失解碼能力。此外，吾人利用空時碼概念，討論混合式籬
柵碼的分集性能、編碼增益與多數決增益。 
A. 簡介 
單一路徑(single path)衰減通道對於訊號造成衝擊，使得接收端估測的能力，無法與
AWGN 通道下的估測能力相提並論。分集技術(diversity)能夠改善衰弱通道所造成的影響，
運用空間、時間或頻率的自由度，使得訊號在這些自由度上重複傳輸，產生多重路徑，假
如每條路徑上的通道係數彼此獨立，訊號因單一路徑影響而被破壞的機率降低，如此一來，
能增加接收端估測訊號的正確率。空時碼是實現分集特性的有效方法之一。根據[1][2]，尋
找在瑞雷(Rayleigh)慢速衰減通道下，具備效能好的空時碼，即是將所有可能的編碼方式，
比較它們代價(cost)的大小，使用 determinant、trace 準則，決定編碼增益的好壞。 
對於一組空時碼，假設 frame size 為 L，傳送端 nT 根輸出天線所形成的 coded symbol
矩陣為： 














=
TTT
T
T
n
L
nn
n
L
n
L
xxx
xxx
xxx
⋯
⋮⋱⋮⋮
⋯
⋯
21
2
2
2
1
1
2
1
1
X  
 32
態過程轉換也與其他正常狀態的中繼端不同，造成中繼端群編碼時，發生狀態不一致的問
題，傳統解碼端發生錯誤。本研究提出分離式解碼與混合式籬柵解碼，以解決此問題。 
分離式解碼方式為：每根天線輸出值為不同編碼器所產生出來的符碼，解碼端將每根
天線的訊號分別輸入各自對應的解碼器，解出每根天線所傳的資訊(information bits)，最後
經由檢查，當其中兩根天線的資訊完全符合傳送端的傳送資訊時，即算解碼正確。此方法
為簡單的解決途徑，但會引入量化誤差，容易受訊號間干擾，增加接收端的解碼錯誤率，
並且接收端的複雜度較傳統籬柵解碼方法高。混合籬柵解碼為：每根天線輸出值為不同編
碼器所產生出來的符碼，但將所有不同編碼器結合起來，看做為另一個大型編碼器。將正
常與受干擾中繼端的編碼器狀態，重新定義成新狀態，並重新建立輸入輸出的籬柵關係；
如此一來，即能偵測通訊系統具有受干擾中繼端的訊號，解決傳統籬柵解碼器不能成功解
碼的問題。混合籬柵中，吾人稱編碼器狀態不一致情況時為「延伸狀態」。這樣解碼不會引
入量化誤差，在效能上會優於分離式解碼方式。然而，混合式籬柵碼會增加接收端計算複
雜度。我們使用 M-algorithm [5]來簡化維特比(Viterbi)演算法，以降低接收端解碼複雜度。 
B. 系統模型 
系統有 nT 個中繼端，每個中繼端僅有單一天線，在時間點 t，中繼端群傳送天線的輸
出訊號定義為，xt = [ 1tx 2tx … Tntx ]T，這些訊號經過通道 Ht的衰減干擾和白色高斯雜訊的影響
後，由 nR 根接收天線接收，nR 根接收訊號定義為 rt = [ 1tr 2tr … Rntr ]T，而 rt和 xt的關係為： 
 
tttt
nxHr +=  (6-3) 
其中 Ht是一個 nR×nT 的通道矩陣，且假設接收端已經知道通道狀況（Ht），htij 是 Ht矩陣的
第 i 列、第 j 行的元素，也就是從第 j 根傳送天線到第 i 根接收天線間的通道增益係數，這
些元素都是平均值(mean)等於零，變異數(variance)等於一的 independent circularly symmetric 
complex Gaussian random variable(假設傳送訊號能量為一)。nt是一個 nR×1 的雜訊向量，nt = 
[ 1
t
n 2
t
n … Rn
t
n ]
T，且裡面的元素都是平均值等於零，變異數等於 σ2 的 independent circularly 
symmetric complex Gaussian noise。本研究考慮類慢速衰減(quasi slow fading)通道，在一個
frame size 內，通道不會變化，frame size 間的通道係數彼此不影響，視為獨立產生；因此
在一個 frame size 的時間內 Ht=H (t =1,2,…,L; L=frame size)。當接收天線收到訊號後，收到
的訊號 rt會在接收端進行傳送訊號的估測與解碼。籬柵空時碼典型的解法方式採用維特比
演算法(Viterbi)，其中 branch metric 的計算方式如下： 
 ∑ ∑
= =
−
R Tn
j
n
i
i
t
t
ij
j
t xhr
1
2
1
,  (6-4) 
每經過一個 frame size 的時間後，維特比演算法會估計出一組訊號向量，就是與接收訊號
的向量距離最為接近的一組值。 
DF 合作式通訊中，傳送端傳送訊號方式分為兩個階段；階段一：傳送端傳送訊號給
中繼端群，中繼端群作解碼動作；階段二：中繼端群將解碼過的訊號，重新做編碼再傳送
給接收端。接收端將第二階段所收到的訊號，解碼做決策。在階段二中，中繼端對於接收
到的訊號是否需作檢查正確的動作後再傳給接收端，視通訊系統而定。本研究中，採用中
繼端不作檢查的模式，使得中繼端有可能傳送與傳送端原始訊號相異的資料。 
接收端使用傳統分散式籬柵空時解碼，當天線被電路錯誤干擾，或者合作式通訊遇到
傳送端與中繼端間通道品質惡劣而對錯誤資訊編碼時，接收端即使藉由籬柵找到一組估計
 34
C. 模擬結果 
本節將利用電腦來模擬並驗證混和式籬柵解碼方法效能，並與分離式解碼方法做比
較。模擬次數因複雜度關係，分為兩種方法：使用傳統解碼方式、分離式解碼方式時，模
擬 107 次實驗點數，每次實驗輸入 frame size 長度為 20 bits 的 information bits，當解碼端偵
測到一個 bit 錯誤時，此次實驗算失敗，計 frame error 一次；使用混合籬柵解碼方式時，
每次實驗同樣輸入 frame size 長度為 20 bits 的 information bits，當解碼端偵測到一個 bit 錯
誤時，此次實驗即算失敗，累積 100 次的失敗，模擬隨即停止，記錄錯誤率。分成兩種模
擬方法，是避免模擬時間花費太久。在模擬時，使用 QPSK 籬柵空時編碼器，傳送端與接
收端為瑞雷衰減通道，在一個 frame size 之內，通道係數不變，frame 間的通道係數獨立產
生，視為 quasi slow fading。模擬圖中，橫坐標為單一天線的訊雜能量比。假定 P 為每根天
線傳送訊號的平均能量，σ2 為雜訊能量，以 dB 表示訊雜比： 
 )
2
(log10)(
210 σ
P
dBSNR ×≡  (6-5) 
此外，模擬時，皆以合作式通訊系統中，三個中繼端為基礎，幫忙傳送者傳遞訊號。 
 
Table 6-1. 二種籬柵空時碼 
   
 
考慮 Table 6-1 的 code A。Fig. 6-4(a)為在中繼端群編碼器狀態不一致時，不具多數決
混合籬柵碼與傳統籬柵空時碼解碼的錯誤率比較，驗證存在受干擾中繼端時，混合式籬柵
碼能夠正確解碼。其錯誤率表現的 diversity 為 1，所以 diversity 不如使用傳統籬柵解碼於
中繼端群編碼器狀態一致時的表現。為了降低錯誤率，我們使用具備多數決混合籬柵解碼
方式，只要兩個中繼端的資訊與傳送端資訊相符，即算解碼成功，其表現見 Fig. 6-4(b)。
相較於無具備多數決的解碼方式，能使錯誤率曲線下移一些。 
 
    
(a)                                     (b) 
Fig. 6-4. (a)應用混合式籬柵碼解決中繼端群編碼器狀態不一致問題。(b)選擇增益比較圖。 
 36
七、總計畫建構之實驗平台 
We developed a fast verification platform that can be used to construct wireless transceiver 
systems for experiments. The platform can facilitate implementation of test signal processing 
algorithms for verification in a realistic transmission environment. To make it capable and 
general enough to meet the requirements that may be encountered in various situations, we 
included a field programmable gate array (FPGA), a digital signal processor (DSP), and a central 
processing unit (CPU) (which may also be termed a central control unit, CCU) on the platform. 
Also for general applicability, we have included a variety of peripherals on the platform. Finally, 
as a test and an example, we realized a simplified LTE transceiver using the platform and 
connected it to some test equipments to test its performance. 
A. Introduction 
In modern communication, due to the ever-increasing demand for higher throughput and 
convenience of use, newer specifications for and newer designs of communication systems are 
constantly becoming more complicated and their operating environments are also constantly 
expanding. An architecture design of the transceiver system for such a system needs to consider 
not only the physical layer functions, including radio frequency (RF) and analog circuits and 
baseband signal processing, but also the MAC layer and some higher-layer protocol functions. 
When a person desires to verify the performance of a newly proposed physical layer or higher 
layer algorithm in a realistic transmission environment, he/she needs to have a large-capacity, 
ease-of-use hardware implementation platform to attain this purpose. Therefore, such a hardware 
verification platform has critical importance. 
To realize such a complicated communication system, different types of algorithms require 
different implementation hardware. For examples, the link-layer is suitable to be realized in an 
ARM system because these algorithms are highly variable and usually need to be modified to 
meet different requests or special applications. In contrast, baseband algorithms are more 
suitably implemented in application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), FPGAs, or DSPs 
because they need large computing power and huge computation units. 
It is well-known that RF and analog circuits are hard to integrate with digital circuits on an 
ASIC. Hence if we want to build a general useful platform, the analog parts, such as 
analog-to-digital converter (ADC) or digital-to-analog converter (DAC), are best implemented 
using external circuits. The RF subsystem is a big issue in wireless communication platform 
design. Besides being impossible to place in FPGA, it is also difficult to realize using a general 
module. The bandwidths and central frequencies are different in different wireless 
communication standards. In other words, if one wants to build in the RF module in the platform, 
one needs to design an RF board with programmable frequency, bandwidth, and modulations. 
Due to the difficulty with this task, it is better to customize the RF module for each different 
application. 
We perceive a current lack of a suitable platform for convenient programmable realization 
 38
connect to FPGA. By these two connections, it establishes the connection between FPGA, DSP, 
and ARM systems. We can link these three components by the connections. Besides, we also 
design a timing sharing mechanism (DMA) to control the data transform. By the way, all the data 
can be exchanged by these three connections, such as FPGA to DSP and FPGA to ARM. 
 
 
Fig. 7-3: Timing sharing scheme of the DMA function. 
 
We design a DMA block to support data exchanging from FPGA, DSP, ARM, and other 
peripherals, such as 8051 MCU, and so on. We use time-sharing scheme to separate the DMA 
engine. By time-sharing method, DMA denotes each block can access the DMA memory in the 
correct time slot. The order of blocks which can access the DMA memory are: (1) FPGA-1, (2) 
DSP, (3) ARM, (4) FPGA-2, (5) FPGA-3, (6) FPGA-4, (7) FPGA-5, and (8) FPGA-6, where 
FPGA-n represents the n
th
 peripheral in FPGA or on the board. The time-sharing diagram is 
shown as Fig. 7-3. In the figure, each component can access the DMA memory in one time slot 
and the length of one time slot (tts) is defined by users. When the slot time is done, the 
corresponding interrupt signal is active. Then, the interrupt signal can hold for a while (tint-x). 
Between each time slot, there is a guard band to avoid the current component cannot stop to 
read/write the memory immediately when the time slot is done. Therefore, there is a guard band 
(tgb) region to make sure the current can stop to use the DMA, then, transfer the DMA to the next 
component. 
C. LTE System Implementation 
We design a LTE eNB system and realize the system in the platform as a design example. 
The LTE system contains up-link receiving, down-link transmitting, simple MAC and link-layer 
systems. Following block description is only based on several key components and explains the 
key algorithms and implementation schemes. 
Fig. 7-4 shows the receiving block diagram. We detect the best sampling phase and compute 
the synchronization algorithm by PRACH information. In front-end ADC sampling, we use 
4-time up-sampling frequency (122.96MHz) to sample the receiving data. Therefore, there are 4 
phases of the data for each subcarrier. And in the LTE standard, there are 4 different types of 
preamble sequence in PRACH. Therefore, besides packet detection and synchronization 
functions, we also need to detect which kind of preamble sequence is. We show the 
characteristics of the different preamble sequences in Fig. 7-5. 
 
 40
frequency domain of PRACH. After 2048 points FFT (see Fig. 7-4), we use sliding window 
scheme and compute the 839 points power and select the maximum one to be the integer index. 
Finally, the preamble sequence is passed to the PRACH index detector to select the correct 
PRACH index, using the following equation, where A(l) and B(l) are the l
th
 data from the 
receiving PRACH data and idea PRACH data: 
 
2
838
0
**
)1()1()()(maxarg ∑
=
+++=
l
iiii lBlAlBlAi . (7-1) 
The continuous CFO tracking algorithm is based on the CP (cyclic prefix) of each symbol and is 
applied the differential CFO scheme. We show the design concept in Fig. 7-6(b). It is also based 
on monitoring the cross correlation values as in the case of packet detection. 
In the LTE demonstration system, we do not design a complex channel estimation and 
equalizer algorithms here. We only use one-dimension interpolation scheme to estimate the 
channel response and compensate the other receiving signals. The final results show the platform 
can capture the receiving data correctly. 
DL TX function is implemented in RTL code and realized in FPGA. The reason why we use 
FPGA to realize it is the large data throughput rate. In multi-antenna, 20 MHz bandwidth and 64 
QAM mode, the data rate is very fast and it is difficult to realize all function in DSP. Therefore, 
we realize the DL TX function in FPGA and leave DSP to handle other receiving algorithms. 
For the turbo decoder implementation, we use the embedded turbo decoder in TI 
TMS320C6457. When the baseband receives the complete data segment from PDSCH, it will 
pass to the DMA. Then, the DMA transmits the data block to DSP through the EMIF (external 
memory interface) and DSP will start the turbo decoder computation. When the turbo decoder 
computation is completed, the decoded data are also sent back to DMA and calculate the CRC 
(cyclic redundant check) and re-construct the whole data block by data de-segmentation function 
in FPGA. 
The data link layer is implemented by C language and is realized in ARM system. The 
detail function of data link layer is to handle the data transmitting and receiving, compute the 
data acknowledge and non-acknowledge, decide all parameters for baseband, such as PDCCH 
data, CCE number, antenna port number, PHICH data, PBCH data, and so on. Besides, it also 
needs to prepare all data in the desired time slot which is define in LTE standard. The 
synchronization data information, such as clock asynchronous value is also computed by ARM. 
Because we focus on the ASIC part, we don't explain too much here. The detail explanation will 
be submitted to other journal in the future. 
D. Performance Testing 
First, the FPGA synthesis utilization of each block is shown in Table 7-1. The total 
utilization of FPGA is around 68%. The external memory utilization is 98% and it is because of 
the shorter DMA waiting time, the larger external SRAM utilization. 
The link layer is realized in ARM system. the total utilization of ARM system is 78%. The 
heavy computation complexity is cased by the high layer protocol computation. It needs to 
prepare all data transmitting and receiving, handle acknowledgments and non-acknowledgments, 
 42
與基本(長期)兩大類。前者係指基於 IEEE 802.16e/j/m 或 3GPP LTE 標準之研究，著眼在研
發標準相關的訊號傳收技術；後者係指較基礎與前瞻的寬頻訊號傳輸技術，未必針對上述
標準之訊號規格來設計。在本年度中，本整合型計畫在這兩類技術的研究上，均已獲得不
少成果。整體而言，本計畫達成了研究下世代行動通訊系統技術的目標。 
達成預期目標情況：本整合型計畫獲得創新之發現、理論之推導、技術水準之提昇、
實驗系統之擴充、及人才培育(多名碩博士生)等成果。 
成果之學術與應用價值等： 
1. 學術價值方面：總計畫及各子計畫本年度之研究與成果，如細胞搜尋技術、上行測距
技術、通道碼技術、對抗多重同步誤差之技術、各項干擾消除技術、各項空時編碼傳
輸處理技術、各項中繼傳輸技術、以及實驗實作平台之建構與各項實作等，皆具有學
術上之創新進步價值。除了形成學生學位論文之基礎外，亦由總計畫及各子計畫之參
與者陸續投稿於學術會議與期刊中。 
2. 應用價值方面：本整合型計畫所發展的技術，可為無線通訊設備研發界及業界之參考。
我們亦在將部分成果向國內外申請專利。此外，本整合型計畫的研究，讓參與者對下
世代行動通訊標準更有所掌握，有助於我國在此方面之未來產研發展。 
3. 學研合作方面：本整合型計畫在執行過程中，也與國內參與 IEEE 802.16m 和
LTE-Advanced 等標準制定的研發界人士有互動，已成為其技術後盾。 
綜合評估：本整合型計畫獲得不少具有學術與應用價值的成果，並達人才培育之功能。
成效良好。 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林大衛 計畫編號：99-2219-E-009-007- 
計畫名稱：寬頻合作式無線多輸出入通訊系統--總計畫：寬頻合作式無線多輸出入通訊系統(2/2) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 0 100% 
篇 
各子計畫之成果
合計。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 0 100% 各子計畫之成果合計。 專利 
已獲得件數 2 0 100% 
件 各子計畫之成果
合計。 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 28 21 100% 
各子計畫合計。並
非所有學生均全
程參與。 
博士生 11 10 100% 
各子計畫合計。並
非所有學生均全
程參與。 
博士後研究員 1 1 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 0 100% 各子計畫之成果合計。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 0 100% 
篇 
各子計畫之成果
合計。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 0 100% 各子計畫之成果合計。 專利 
已獲得件數 2 0 100% 
件 各子計畫之成果
合計。 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
博士後研究員 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：■已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本整合型計畫之主旨在研究下世代(第四代或以後)行動通訊系統之相關技術。就各項技術
之應用性質而言，本計畫的研究內容可分為實用(短期)與基本(長期)兩大類。前者係指基
於 IEEE 802.16e/j/m 或 3GPP LTE 標準之研究，著眼在研發標準相關的訊號傳收技術；後
者係指較基礎與前瞻的寬頻訊號傳輸技術，未必針對上述標準之訊號規格來設計。在本年
度中，本整合型計畫在這兩類技術的研究上，均已獲得不少成果。 
就成果的性質而言，本整合型計畫獲得創新之發現、理論之推導、技術水準之提昇、實驗
系統之擴充、及人才培育(多名碩博士生)等方面的成果。 
就成果之學術、技術、與社會價值而言，可分三點簡述如下： 
1. 學術價值方面：總計畫及各子計畫本年度之研究與成果，如細胞搜尋技術、上行測距
技術、通道碼技術、對抗多重同步誤差之技術、各項干擾消除技術、各項空時編碼傳輸處
理技術、各項中繼傳輸技術、以及實驗實作平台之建構與各項實作等，皆具有學術上之創
新進步價值。除了形成學生學位論文之基礎外，亦由總計畫及各子計畫之參與者陸續投稿
於學術會議與期刊中。 
2. 技術價值方面：本整合型計畫所發展的技術，可為無線通訊設備研發界及業界之參考。
我們亦在將部分成果向國內外申請專利。此外，本整合型計畫的研究，讓參與者對下世代
行動通訊標準更有所掌握，有助於我國在此方面之未來產研發展。 
3. 學研合作方面：本整合型計畫在執行過程中，也與國內參與 IEEE 802.16m 和
LTE-Advanced 等標準制定的研發界人士有互動，已成為其技術後盾。 
