一、中文摘要 
營建績效評估已非新興議題，學術研
究漸多，績效評估架構、指標或系統的文
獻不在少數。近十年，英、美等國也陸續
發展相關評估制度。 
本計畫回顧績效評估理論及英、美等
國績效評估作法，營建績效評估發展現
況。然後比較分析相關文獻研究主題、方
法，點出學術研究與實際應用上的落差，
並建議未來發展可能的方向。 
 
關鍵詞：績效評估、績效評估系統、架構、
指標、營建業 
 
Abstract 
Construction performance measurement 
is not a new issue. A number of academic 
studies have developed frameworks, 
measures and systems for performance 
evaluation in countries such as UK and US 
over the last decade.  
This study reviews the theories of 
performance measurement, related practices 
in UK and US and current development of 
construction performance measurement. 
Then, through analyzing and comparing the 
contents of related research papers, the 
findings display similarities and differences 
between these studies, recognize the gap 
between research and practices, and suggest 
possible directions for future development. 
  
Keywords: performance measurement, 
performance measurement system, 
framework, measures, construction industry 
二、前言  
績效評估是管理的重要一環。多數營
造廠商於工程進行中，通常只埋首苦幹，
追求工程之完成，忽略管理的重要，對於
績效評估認為是多餘的(邱文杰 民 91)。因
此國內對於工程績效缺乏衡量系統，通常
以少數進度指標或主觀看法來評估，結果
難窺工程績效全貌(張行道等 民 91)。 
自從 Eccles (1991) 提出績效宣言
(Performance Measurement Manifesto)，營建
工程最早開始跟隨的 Stevens et al. (1994)
收集美國及日本營建公司所用的績效指標
及表格，但並未分析優劣及有效性。Russel 
et al. (1996) 由 美 國 營 建 產 業 協 會
(Construction Industry Institute, CII)提供的
幾十家營造公司的施工專案績效數據，回
歸出一條曲線，供新的工程預測成功機
會。Dulaimi et al. (2005)提出衡量創新及專
案績效的架構，但對營運執行面則未交代。 
美國 CII 於 1993 年開始標竿學習與指
標計畫，收集、分析營建產業績效資料。
英國政府也於1998年開始實施關鍵績效指
標(Key Performance Index，KPI)，建立 38
個指標，衡量及收集營造工程生命週期間
之績效。有些國家如丹麥與巴西也開始跟
隨，澳洲新南威爾斯省政府於 1998 年亦發
展顧問公司績效指標。這些評估制度都在
近十年發展或實施。 
 
三、研究方法 
營建業績效評估，有研究建立衡量企
業績效的概念架構(Bassioni et al. 2005)，有
研究列出評估指標，如 Stewart & Mohamed 
(2001)應用 Balanced Score Cards，舉列營建
資訊科技(Information Technology)績效指
標。亦有提出設計績效準則、過程與產品
兩階段指標(Chang & Ibbs 1998)，及進一步
探討指標績效級距(Chang & Ibbs 1999)。但
績 效 應 是 多 面 向 的 (Neely & Adams 
2001)，許多架構、指標等研究多個別談某
一環節的績效，沒有整合，對建立營建績
效衡量系統無法給予方向。 
本計畫彙整績效評估相關文獻，擬先
消化國外績效評估理論及相關制度作法，
經分類文獻研究之主題、方法及領域，釐
清學術研究與應用上的落差，找出營建績
效衡量執行障礙，並建議未來發展可能方
向。 
 
四、績效評估理論 
Eccles(1991)發表績效衡量宣言，並預
測未來五年內每一個公司必須重新衡量企
業績效。績效評估有四大目的(Tesoro & 
Tootson 2000)：(1)對於欲完成的目標，衡
量其成功程度。(2)對組織改造，提供建議
或修正措施。(3)提供回饋機制給管理者。
(4)評估內部的輸入及產出。 
 1
以，如何從績效資料中擷取有價值的資訊
去管理，才是目前績效評估最重要的課題。 
 
五、績效評估系統 
施工績效可用一套評估或控制系統，
來衡量施工目標的達成度，管理者能透過
指標之數字或標準，判斷施工績效之優劣
(邱文杰 民 91)，並幫助預測結果、回饋改
善，特性像健康檢查的過程。研究顯示組
織使用績效評估系統，其管理績效較佳
(Kennner and Neely 2002)。 
美國於 1987 年發展 Malcolm Baldrige 
Quality Award 機制，評估製造業、服務業
對品質改善所做的努力。此套衡量制度將
品質績效分為領導、資訊與分析、策略性
品質規劃、人力資源利用、產品與服務之
品質保證、品質結果，及顧客滿意度等七
領域，共計 1000 分。其中顧客滿意度權重
最高，佔 300 分。評估團隊經由現地視察、
訪談參選公司，每公司至少一週，確認文
件正確性(Garvin1991)。營建設計顧問業性
質似服務業，此架構或可供其自評參考。 
 
1. 國外營建績效評估機制 
各產業近十年都認同企業績效衡量的
重要性，美、英、澳洲等國產業績效衡量
制度也都陸續發展。其中，屬營建業績效
衡量機制，以美國 CII、英國 KPI 最廣為實
務界使用。 
(1) 美國 CII 
美 國 營 建 研 究 協 會 (Construction 
Industry Institute, CII) 於 1992 年 發 展
Quality performance measurement structure 
(QPMS)績效評估制度(Steven et al. 1994)，
將品質衡量分為四類，顧客焦點(Customer 
Focus)、領導(Leadership)、執行(Delivery)、
員工賦能(Employee empowerment)，並分事
前規劃、設計、採購、施工、運轉、啟用
與最終處理七個階段，列舉出各階段適用
的指標與衡量方法。可惜並未積極推動，
未造成太大迴響。 
CII 標竿學習與指標計畫(Construction 
Industry Institute Benchmarking and Metrics, 
CII BM&M)創於 1993 年，目的在為產業提
供 (1)一套共同定義指標、 (2)績效常模
(norm)、(3)量化最佳實務使用與價值，及(4)
助於重視 CII 研究與努力(CII 2000)。建立
之績效指標依大小工程略有不同，計有成
本、時程、安全、變更、重作、施工生產
力、設計生產力等七項。參與者經由網路
填寫問卷，更新專案資料，並從網路發送
之 CII 正式分析報告，即時評估專案成效
(CII 2003)。2004 年 10 月，CII 資料庫具有
超過 1240 個專案，來自業主、承包廠商、
BMPP 等單位，但驗證資料很困難且耗時。
資源的缺乏、公司層級承諾、公司流程之
改善等，都是執行挑戰。標竿學習的使用
通常與高階管理者態度相關。 
(2) 英國 KPI 
Egan(1998)提出「重新思考營建業」的
議題，認為應有一套規範架構輔助營建發
展與控制，使專案執行更有效率。英國環
境 運 輸 與 區 域 部 (Department of the 
Environment, Transport and Regions)因應此
議題，1998 年開始發展關鍵績效指標(Key 
Performance Indicator, KPI)，由 Construction 
Best Practice Programme(CBPP)主導運作
(DETR 2000)。此套制度建立之指標最多也
較完整，歐盟其他國家亦採納使用。 
KPI 發展至今將營建績效分經濟、人
力，及環境三部分衡量，各有 10 個指標。
經濟面 KPI 分專案績效與公司績效，專案
績效指標有業主滿意度-產品、業主滿意度
-服務、成本預測、時間預測、營建成本(變
更)、營建時間(變更)，及缺失。公司績效
指標則有獲利、生產力，及安全。人力面
KPI 有員工滿意度、員工流動率、缺席率、
安全、工作時數、證照及技能、一致性/變
動性(政策執行)、訓練、薪資，及對人之投
資，這屬於領先指標。環境面 KPI 衡量營
建產品、設計與施工過程，有環境衝擊、
能源使用、能源使用、水使用、消耗、機
器移動、生態衝擊(生物多樣性)、生態棲身
地保存、全生命週期績效等。 
KPI 也陸續擴充更細項的指標，2001 年
提出 ACE 顧問 KPI，包括業主滿意度-整體
績效、金錢價值、品質、交遞時間、安衛，
訓練，生產力(產值)，及獲利。此外亦有財
務 KPI，如獲利、產值、資本報酬率等。 
 3
方式，以作問卷調查。統計分析方法則有
ANOVA、ANP、T 分配、假設檢定等。 
以地區來分，英國以文獻研討最多，其
餘各項比例相當。美國也以文獻研討最
多，統計分析其次。 
 
3. 領域 
營建績效評估常針對某一環節建立衡
量架構或指標，大致有施工、設計、人力、
公司經營等領域，公司經營包含策略、創
新或價值管理。多數研究未針對特定領
域，比例佔一半，其領域分類比較如表 3
所示。 
表 3. 領域分類 
領域 
地區 施工 設計 人力 
公司
經營 不分
英國 3 3 1 4 16 
美國 1 4 2 4 6 
總計 4 7 3 8 22 
 
由表 3，有針對特定領域研究的文獻，
以衡量公司及設計績效之架構或指標最
多，其次為施工績效。 
 
七、結論與建議 
整理營建績效評估文獻，主題多談理
論、發展現況、影響因子，或具體建立架
構或指標。談理論或發展現況的研究，多
止於點出觀念或實務作法，未進一步探討
如何應用。 
建立架構或指標的研究，多數分別談架
構或指標，少有一併建立架構與指標，可
供直接應用，這是學術研究與實務落實上
的落差主因。 
研究方法仍以文獻研討最多，統計、問
卷、訪談居次。由此可以看出，即使營建
績效評估發展已近 20 年，仍以研討文獻、
訪談探索營建業如何評估績效，實際研究
驗證尚待努力。 
檢視英、美兩國營建績效評估制度，從
工程生命週期角度，衡量設計、施工、營
運等階段績效，並持續衡量。回顧台灣，
雖有施工績效、顧問績效衡量制度的研
究，卻未見落實執行。 
如果設計績效準則與施工績效指標間
之原因結果關係能確定，設計指標與施工
指標之關係則可進一步探討，如此評估施
工績效時，將不佳的指標找出，追溯其關
聯之設計指標；或在設計完成後，知道哪
些指標績效不佳，在施工時特別注意，避
免造成施工的績效不佳。再利用回饋措
施，反映並記錄此等績效指標數字與關
係，如此可逐漸建立績效知識庫，亦達到
績效整合之目的，未來研究可為參考。 
 
八、計畫成果自評 
本研究由績效評估切入，研討營建績
效評估作法，點出學術研究與實務應用上
的落差。回顧並分析績效評估、營建績效
評估作法等文獻，指出架構或指標分別建
立，又或單一環節營建績效研究，非經整
合，應用無法落實。營建產業未來績效評
估研究或應用，對此應有所認知。 
 
九、參考文獻 
【中文資料】 
1. 邱文杰，施工專案績效指標與機制之
建立，國立成功大學土木工程研究所
碩士論文，民國九十一年。 
2. 張行道等，建置公共工程施工績效評
估機制，行政院公共工程委員會，研
究報告 174，民國九十一年。 
3. 李長貴，績效管理與績效評估，華泰
文化事業公司，台北，民國八十六年。 
4. 林清宏，設計管理之機效-原因-過程模
式，國立成功大學土木工程研究所碩
士論文，民國八十九年。 
 
【英文資料】 
1. Ammons, D. N. (1996). Municipal 
Benchmarks: Assessing Local 
Performance and Establishing 
Community Standards. Sage Publications, 
Thousand Oaks. 
2. Barber, E. (2004). “Benchmarking the 
Management of Projects: A Review of 
Current Thinking.” International Journal 
of Project Management, 22, 301-307. 
3. Bassioni, H. A., Price, A. D. F., and 
Hassan, T. M. (2005). “Building a 
Conceptual Framework for Managing 
 5
26. Kaplan, R. S. and Norton, D. P. (1992). 
“The Balanced Scorecard-Measures that 
Drive Performance”, Harvard Business 
Review, Vol.70, No.1, pp71-79. Kast, F. 
E., et al. (1979) Organization and 
Management, McGraw-Hill Book Co., 
New York. 
27. Kaplan, R. S. and Norton, D. P. (1996). 
The Balanced Scorecard— Translating 
Strategy into Action, Harvard Business 
School Press, Boston, MA. 
28. Karim, K. and Marosszeky, M. (1999). 
“Enterprise Process Monitoring Using 
Key Performance Indicators.” 
Benchmarking Construction Consultants, 
Building Research Centre monograph, 
UNSW, Sydney, Australia. 
29. Keegan, D. P., Eiler, R. G. and Jones, C. 
R. (1989). “Are Your Performance 
Measures Obsolete?” Management 
Accounting, June, 45-50. 
30. Kennner, M. and Neely, A. (2002) 
“Performance measurement frameworks: 
A review.” in Neely, A. (Ed.), Business 
Performance Measurement, Theory and 
Practice, Cambridge Univ. Press, pp. 
145-155. 
31. Lttner, C. D. and Larcker, D. F. (2003). 
“Coming up Short on Nonfinancial 
Performance Measurement.” Harvard 
Business Review, 81(11), 88-95. 
32. Lynch, R. L. and Cross, K. F. (1991). 
Measure Up — The Essential Guide to 
Measuring Business Performance, 
Mandarin, London. 
33. McCunn, P. (1998). “The Balanced 
Socrecard: the Eleventh Commandment.” 
Management Accounting, December, 
34-36. 
34. Meyer, C. (1994). “How the Right 
Measures Help Teams Excel.” Harvard 
Business Review, Vol.72, No.3, pp95-103. 
35. MORI, (1996). Attitudes of Captains of 
Industry. MORI, London. 
36. Neely, A. and Adams, C. (2001). “The 
Performance Prism Perspectives.” 
Journal of Cost Management, 15(1), 
7-15. 
37. Neely, A. and Austin, R. (2002). 
“Measuring performance: The operations 
perspective.” in Neely, A. (Ed.), Business 
Performance Measurement, Theory and 
Practice, Cambridge Univ. Press, 41-50. 
38. Neely, A. and Bourne, M. (2000). “Why 
Measurement Initiatives Fail.” Measuring 
Business Excellence, 4(4), 3-6. 
39. Robinson, H. S., Carrillo, P. M., Anumba, 
C. J., and Al-Ghassani, A. M. (2005). 
“Review and Implementation of 
Performance Management Models in 
Construction Engineering 
Organizations.” Construction Innovation, 
5, 203-217. 
40. Russell, J. S., Jaselskis, E. J., Lawrence, 
S. P., Tserng, H. P., and Prestine, M. T. 
(1996). “Development of a Predictive 
Tool for Continuous Assessment of 
Project Performance.” Research Report 
107-12, The Construction Industry 
Institute, Univ. of Texas at Austin, Austin, 
TX. 
41. Simons, R. (2000). Performance 
Measurement & Control Systems for 
Implementing Strategy Text & Cases. 
Prentice Hall, New Jersey. 
42. Skinner, W. (1974). “The Decline, Fall 
and Renewal of Manufacturing.” 
Industrial Engineering, October, 32-38. 
43. Stevens, J. D., Kloppenborg, T. J., and 
Glagola, C. R. (1994). “Quality 
Performance Measurements of the EPC 
Process: The Blueprint.” Source 
Document 103, The Construction 
Industry Institute, The University of 
Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, Nov. 
44. Stewart, R. A. and Mohamed, S. (2001). 
“Utilizing the Balanced Scorecard for 
IT/IS Performance Evaluation in 
Construction.” Construction Innovation, 
1, 147-163. 
45. Tesoro, F. and Tootson, J. (2000). 
Implementing Global Performance 
Measurement Systems - A Cookbook 
Approach. Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer, San 
Francisco. 
 
 
 7
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           97 年 9 月 1 日 
報告人姓名  張行道 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
 
成功大學土木系教授 
 
    會議 時間 
     地點 
97 年 7 月 24 日至 26 日 
加拿大多倫多市 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC96-2221-E-006-225 
會議 
名稱 
 第 18 屆亞太管理研討會 
18th ACME International Conference on Pacific Rim Management  
發表 
論文 
題目 
 找出研發案成功因子-以中小車燈製造商為例 
 Identifying R&D project success factors-A case study for small and medium auto-lamp 
manufacturer 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、 參加會議經過 
行程於 97 年 7/22 出發，當日抵多倫多城市，7/24、26 開會，8/14 返回。 
二、 與會心得 
        華人管理教育學會(Association for Chinese Management Educators, ACME)是一國際性的專業與學術組
織，致力於企業研究及管理教育的發展、傳播與應用。第 18 屆 ACME 亞太管理的國際研討會於今年 7
月 24~26 日於加拿大多倫多舉行，來自美國、台灣、香港、中國大陸等的學者發表 100 多篇論文，領域
包括財務會計、企業策略、管理、企業資源規劃、資訊管理、供應鏈管理、作業管理、國際企業、人力
資源與組織、科技管理等。此研討會主要是華人的管理教育者一年一度交換研究心得的場合，尤其是台
灣的學者與在美國的華人學者交流的良好機會，這一屆的主席由成大管理學院的吳萬益前院長擔任。 
 
三、 考察參觀活動 
        研討會中參與一些 session 的聽講與討論，例如一篇論文提出新鮮食物供應鏈的風險，以 2005 年發
生在美國的菠菜含有大腸桿菌的案例，介紹食物供應鏈中可能碰到的風險因子，其中提到灌溉用水及工
程設施，倒是我從沒想過的問題，不過這議題倒是提醒了不同專業間可能的關聯。 
另有一篇探討產品回收收集點的存貨模式，是一呼應潮流的研究。在環境持續惡化的情況下，永續
發展及環境保護已變成現代社會兩個重要議題，綠色供應鏈管理也隨之出現 (Green Supply Chain 
Management, GrSCM)，GrSCM 定義為將環境整合思考併入供應鏈，包括產品設計、材料來源與選擇、
製造過程、產品運送到消費者，及用後的處理。本文強調反(reverse)供應鏈，即將使用過產品從顧客回
收，然後處置或再利用，運用數學模式，理論推導當地收集點(Local Collection Points, LCP)，具備某種復
原能力(recovery capability)，並將用過產品再賣到二手市場。 
  
四、 建議 
此研討會之論文集並未將每篇論文納入，是主辦單位的疏忽，會議準備作業應加強。 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
          論文集Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Pacific Rim Management 
 
 
The R&D barrier is not organization size or industries but current organization operation 
(Drucker, 1985). A success project should have definite plans, approaches, control and feedback 
system (Pinto and Slevin, 1987).  
 
Market Technology Organization 
1.Competitive environment 
2.High contribution margin 
3.Life cycle of product 
4.Lower cost 
5.Market analysis 
6.Market existence 
7.Meets customer needs 
8.Number of end users 
9.Prob. of commercial success 
10.Rate of new product 
introduction  
11.Sales/Profit potential 
12.Strengh of market  
1.Demand pull vs. technology 
push 
2.Incremental product 
3.Patents 
4.Probability of technological 
success 
5.Technology route 
1.Commitment of project workers 
2.Well-planned R&D process 
3.Technology tied to business strategy 
4.Training and experience of own people
5.Trouble shooting 
6.Commumication 
7.R&D-make-market interface 
8.Demand for quick results 
9.Error free production 
10.High level manager support 
11.Management and other skills 
12.Meeting cost schedules 
13.Project manager as project champion 
 
Table 1: Classifications of R&D success factors 
 
Balachandra and Friar (1997) derived R&D project success factors from an in-depth 
analysis of 19 papers when examining over 60 related papers and summarized successful R&D 
projects were related with market, technology and organization factors. Table 1 shows 30 factors 
from that study mentioned by more than two papers. They are 12 market, 5 technology and 13 
organization factors. The top three cited are organization factors: well-planned R&D process, 
training and experience of own people and R&D-make-market interface. 
 
 
R&D Performance and Execution  
 
R&D performance is a multi-dimensional concept including process, product and financial 
performance. Financial performance is considered the result of process and product performance 
(Brown and Eisenhardt, 1995). 
Research proposed indices for measuring success or failure of R&D projects, such as 
commercial success rate, sales percentage of new product, profit compared with investment 
(Cooper and Kleinschmidt, 1996);  customer, finance, process, company and project by Product 
Development and Management Association (Griffin and Page, 1996); sales of product, market 
share, return period and profit (Souder and Song, 1998); and performance target, initial budget, 
time to market and overall target (Tatikonda and Rosenthal, 2000). 
It has become an important issue that enterprises actively search external partners to 
cooperate for R&D projects. The technology sources could come from the same or different 
industries, research institutions and universities (Tether, 2002).  According to the survey (MIC, 
2002), sixty percent of the auto and textile industrial enterprises execute R&D projects by 
themselves in Taiwan. Fewer enterprises cooperate with external entities, take licensing or 
technology transfer. This means that enterprises are not yet good at using external resources. 
 2
institutions and five carried by the company itself. Most projects had technological success or 
failure. Eight projects were successful and five failed. 
Nickel pins and electroform constitute the reflex-reflector electroform technology of the 
case company. This high threshold technology includes optical design, chemical process and 
machining. In replying to the price reduction trend, the technologies related to electroform in the 
case projects are developed locally to replace imported electroform equipment and extend the life 
time of nickel pins. In order to solve the deformation and pinholes during electroforming, arc-
welding and laser welding systems are applied to reduce work hours and product defect rates. 
 
RESULTS 
The success factors are identified and the success and failure are analyzed for some R&D 
projects. The identified factors are under market, technology, and organization dimensions, and 
compared with those under innovation, technology and market contextual variables. Finally, the 
influence of success factors on R&D projects is explained. 
 
 
Project Success and Failure 
 
As shown in Table 2 among eight success projects, the first seven had technological success and 
the eighth economic success. Technological success projects are all strengthening own product 
ones, which improve current process technology and product quality successfully. Project 8 
improved other’s product and had economic success in the market. Among the five failure 
projects, three had technological failure (projects 9, 10, and 11), one commercial failure (project 
12) and one economic failure (project 13). Technological failure was resulted form unsolved 
technological problems; commercial failure resulted from the absence of volume production 
equipment; and economic failure resulted from sales problem. 
The success and failure results indicate that case company was good at strengthening 
own product projects (seven out of eight projects are successful), but did not well master the 
technological feasibility and commercial degree of non-own products. 
For the own, other’s and new products, each takes one R&D project example to 
illustrate the success or failure factors as below. 
Project 1: The product cost had to be lowered to meet the price trend in Asia market. 
The R&D engineers developed equivalent electroform equipment to replace imported ones with 
US$17,000 reduced per set. The success factors are, in the sequence of importance, training and 
experience of own people, high contribution margin (CM), and market analysis. 
Project 8: The auto-lamp optical measurement equipment market is long term dominated 
by Germany companies. Few auto-lamp manufacturers could afford the expensive German 
equipment. The senior engineers in company with professors of two universities developed the 
optical measurement equipment targeting the non-high-quality market to offer customers to 
examine their product quality. The product had become a good sale item with 53% CM and 4% 
annual revenue. The success factors in the sequence of importance are: training and experience of 
own people, probability of technological success, lower cost, market analysis, and high CM.  
 4
interface 
13 Market analysis, meets 
customer needs 
－ R&D process, R&D 
interface 
 
Table 3: Case projects success factors and types 
 
Balachandra and Friar (1997) derived the importance of market, technology, and 
organization factors according to innovation, technology and market contextual variables. Table 
4 shows the comparison of the factor types of case projects with those proposed by Balachandra 
and Friar (1997) based on different contextual variable combinations. For innovation variables, 
projects 1~12 belong to incremental innovation and project 13 is radical innovation. For 
technology variables, projects 1, 6, and 7 belong to low technology and the others are high 
technology. Market variables existed for all projects. 
 
Contextual Variables  
Proje
cts 
Innovation Tech. Market 
 
Results
Factor types  
from literature 
Factor types  
from case projects 
 
Comparison
1 Incremental Low Existed Success Market, organization Market, organization Conformity 
2 Incremental High Existed Success Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, tech., 
organization 
Conformity 
3 Incremental High Existed Success Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, tech., 
organization 
Conformity 
4 Incremental High Existed Success Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, tech., 
organization 
Conformity 
5 Incremental High Existed Success Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, tech., 
organization 
Conformity 
6 Incremental Low Existed Success Market, organization Market, organization Conformity 
7 Incremental Low Existed Success Market, organization Market, organization Conformity 
8 Incremental High Existed Success Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, tech., 
organization 
Conformity 
9 Incremental High Existed Failure Market, tech., 
organization 
Tech. Nonconformity
10 Incremental High Existed Failure Market, tech., 
organization 
Tech. Nonconformity
11 Incremental High Existed Failure Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, tech., 
organization 
Conformity 
12 Incremental High Existed Failure Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, organization Nonconformity
13 Radical High Existed Failure Market, tech., 
organization 
Market, organization Nonconformity
 
Table 4: Factor type comparison between case projects and literature 
 
For the projects with incremental innovation, high technology, and market existed 
variables, Balachandra and Friar (1997) considered market, technology and organization are very 
important factors. Six case projects (2, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 11) have the same factor types in the nine 
 6
R&D-make-market interface and well-planned-R&D process, two nonconformance factors for 
failure projects, do not show relevance in this manner.  
 
            Successful projects 
Success factors 
 
1 
 
2 
 
3 
 
4 
 
5 
 
6 
 
7 
 
8 
 
Times
1. Market analysis ○ ○   ○ ○ ○ ○ 6 
2. High contribution margin ○ ○   ○   ○ 4 
3. Meets customer needs   ○ ○     2 
4. Lower cost        ○ 1 
5. Probability of commercial 
success 
    ○    1 
6. Probability of 
technological success 
 ○ ○ ○    ○ 4 
7. Training and experience 
of own people 
○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 8 
8. R&D-make-market 
interface 
        0 
9. Well-planned-R&D 
process 
        0 
 
Table 6: The relationship between success factors and successful R&D projects 
 
  However, in order to increase the success probability of R&D projects, organization 
factors have to be considered by the case company. Balachandra and Friar (1997) pointed out 
that three most important R&D influence factors are well-planned-R&D process, R&D-make-
market interface, training and experience of own people. The factors identified in this study are 
more technological and market than organization side. But when the company grows to a larger 
size, it is envisioned that organization issues will become prominent.  
 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
R&D project success factors and execution have been addressed by many studies. However, the 
success rate of R&D projects is still low, and current literature about R&D management can not 
specifically point out the key of success. Using case study to examine specific R&D projects may 
help get more insight of these success factors. 
 This paper reviewed R&D project success factors, performance and execution, and 
studied 13 R&D projects as cases of a small and medium auto-lamp manufacturer. The 
company’s success and failure of the 13 projects were analyzed and R&D managers were 
interviewed to help identify success factors. The relationship between R&D projects and success 
factors in market, technology and organization are also explained. The conclusions are as below.  
The R&D project performance of the case company is affected by market familiarity, 
probability of technological success and experience of own people. The top three factors of own 
product projects are training and experience of own people, market analysis and probability of 
technological success. The key factor of developing other’s product projects is probability of 
 8
