2 
 
 
(二)中文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
帕金森氏症是一種慢性的中樞神經系統退化疾病，其病因目前推測和大腦
底部基底核以及黑質腦細胞快速退化導致無法製造足夠的神經引導物質多巴胺
(Dopamine)有關。病人明顯症狀包括四肢顫抖（tremor）、僵直（rigidity） 及運
動遲緩（bradykinesia）等。現行藥物治療方式主要以左旋多巴(Levodopa)為主，
而 手 術 治 療 方 式 以 單 邊 蒼 白 球 燒 灼 術 (Pallidotomy) 、 丘 腦 燒 灼 術
（thalamotomy）、及深部電刺激(deep-brain-stimulation)等。目前左旋多巴胺之長
期療效評估並不理想，而手術治療在長期對病人運動控制失調等諸多症狀均能
有顯著改善之效果，因此仍為帕金森氏症之重要治療方法。然而，現行帕金森
氏症之腦部手術均為侵入式，因此仍伴隨手術危險包括產生顱內出血、腦中風、
感染、正常神經纖維破壞以及其他伴隨之暫時性症狀。高能聚焦式超音波
(High-intensity focused ultrasound, HIFU) 為一種將超音波將能量聚焦至人體深
部並局部熱切除組織之新型治療法。由於其以能量聚焦至人體深部進行局部熱
燒灼破壞，並同時具有對腦組織之非侵入性並使正常腦組織之破壞降至最低之
優點。此外，聚焦式超音波亦證實可將局部聚焦區之血腦屏障暫時打開，因此
具有局部藥物釋放之潛力。本研究計畫之目的為探討以聚焦式超音波治療帕金
森氏症之可行性驗證及動物治療平台之開發整合。由於超音波能量具有之高度
之聚焦性及選擇性，因此以本計畫將探討連續施打模式對深部單邊丘腦位置燒
灼並改善帕金森氏症症狀之可行性。此外，本計畫將以脈衝施打模式對纹狀體
作血腦屏障之暫開並作多巴胺之釋放來作帕金森氏症症狀改善之可行性探討。
計畫規劃為三年，並分三階段執行，包括系統參數最佳化探討，系統之設計整
合、活體動物模型驗證。第一階段執行之工作為深入探討聚焦式超音波用於腦
部治療之系統設計參數選定，關鍵參數包括超音波聲窗口、超音波頻率選用、
目標區大小、以及目標區深度等。本階段以仿體實驗驗證系統之整合性及局部
聚焦效能。第二階段包括超音波系統與定位系統之整合，本階段將同時利用仿
體及活體動物測試系統之位置精確性、能量控制精確性、及系統校正。第三階
段為利用帕金森氏症之活體小動物模型做燒灼性治療及血腦屏障暫開/藥物局
部釋放治療，並搭配其他子計畫開發之帕金森氏症診斷技術後整體療效評估。
本計畫於第二階段將整合影像對位/定位技術開發，並將結合至所設計之聚焦式
超音波治療平台。此外，於第三階段將整合利用核磁共振擴散張量影像技術對
小動物之治療評估，並整合應用於帕金森氏症之核磁共振影像新型顯影劑開發。 
 
關鍵字: 帕金森氏症、高能聚焦式超音波、非侵入性熱治療、局部血腦屏障暫
開 
4 
 
報告內容： 
1. Research Outcome (2006-2009) 
 
1.1 Hemorrhage detection during focused-ultrasound induced blood–brain barrier opening 
by using susceptibility-weighted magnetic resonance imaging  
High-intensity focused ultrasound has been discovered to be able to locally and reversibly 
increase the permeability of the blood–brain barrier (BBB), which can be detected using magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI). However, side effects such as microhemorrhage, erythrocyte 
extravasations, or even extensive hemorrhage may also accompany. Although current 
contrast-enhanced T1-weighted MRI can be used to detect the changes in BBB permeability, its 
efficacy in detecting tissue hemorrhage after focused-ultrasound sonication remains limited. The 
purpose of this study is to investigate the feasibility of magnetic-resonance 
susceptibility-weighted imaging (MR-SWI) for identifying possible tissue hemorrhage associated 
with disruption of the BBB induced by focused ultrasound in a rat model. Brains of 42 
Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to 107 sonications either unilaterally or bilaterally. 
Localized BBB opening was achieved by delivering burst-mode focused ultrasound energy into 
brain tissue in the presence of microbubbles. Rats were studied by T2-weighted and 
contrast-enhanced T1-weighted MRI techniques, as well as by SWI. Tissue changes were 
analyzed histologically and the extent of apoptosis was investigated with the terminal 
deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method. The results 
demonstrated that SWI is more sensitive than standard T2-weighted and contrast-enhanced 
T1-weighted MRI techniques in detecting hemorrhages following brain sonication. Longitudinal 
study showed that SWI is sensitive to the recovery process of the damage and therefore, could 
provide important and complimentary information to the conventional MR images. Potential 
applications such as drug delivery in the brain might be benefited. 
 
Main finding: 
Figure 1 shows the SWI (upper row) and histology (lower row) patterns of local hemorrhage 
for different peak pressure levels (range: 0.78 – 4.9 MPa). The observed blue stains were due to 
local increase in BBB permeability, as evidenced by Evans blue leakage into the brain 
parenchyma. For peak pressure greater than or equal to 1.9 MPa, decreases in the SI are in 
keeping with the hemorrhage findings from Evans blue-stained slices (regions in red in Fig. 4(f), 
4(g), and 4(h)). The severity of hemorrhage increased proportionally with increasing electric 
power. However, the results at 0.78 – 1.1 MPa showed that an increased BBB permeability can 
be obtained without induction of cerebral hemorrhage (Blue stained areas in Fig. 4(e)). Further 
increases in pressure level (1.9 to 2.45 MPa) lead to obvious hemorrhage detectable both by SWI 
and histology (Blue stained areas, where the blood stains covered the region partially, as in Fig. 
4(f) and 4(g)). Application of a 4.9 MPa peak pressure induced an extensive brain tissue 
hemorrhage at the application site as well as along the left lateral ventricle (Blue stained areas 
and the blood stains were almost overlapped in Fig. 4(g)). In this regard, SWI images and 
histology findings showed a high degree of correlation. SI increases can be detected in the 
contrast-enhanced T1-weighted MRI images from all cases, which validated that the disruption of 
BBB in the four rats during the sonication process. T2-weighted images only showed slight signal 
variations when comparing with control in the case of using 4.9MPa, and no signal changes can 
be detected from sonications in other experiments in T2-weighted imaging. 
 
6 
 
Contrast-enhanced T1-weighted turbo-spin-echo imaging with bolus Gd-DTPA injection was 
used in this study to detect the focused ultrasound-induced BBB disruption. A monotonic 
increase in the averaged SI was evident with increasing peak pressure in the 0.78 – 2.45 MPa 
range. This finding is in keeping with previous found threshold pressure in rabbit experiments 
(Hynynen et al. 2001; Hynynen et al. 2005) and in rat experiments (Treat et al. 2007). After this 
threshold, however, the signal reached a plateau and no further increase was evident. This 
phenomenon was likely due to the occurrence of extensive cerebral hemorrhage. Notably, no 
correlation was seen between contrast-enhanced T1 weighted images and the severity of the 
cerebral lesions. 
The result has been submitted to the Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology Journal after the 
summarization, and has been accepted / published. ( H-L Liu, Y-Y Wai, W-S Chen, J-C 
Chen, P-H Hsu, X-Y W, W-C Huang, T-C Yen, and J-J Wang, “Hemorrhage Detection 
during Focused-Ultrasound Induced Blood–Brain-Barrier Opening by Using 
Susceptibility-Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging,” Ultrasound in Medicine & Biology, 
Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 598-606, 2008) 
 
 
1.2 Design a low-frequency Hemispherical ultrasound phased-array for transcranial 
blood-brain barrier disruption  
The purpose of this study was to demonstrate a prototype design of a low-frequency 
multiple-channel hemispherical focused-ultrasound phased-array system for transcranial 
disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). A 32-channel ultrasound driving system tunable in 
the frequency range from 200 to 400 kHz was designed for producing a suitable ultrasound 
output for BBB disruption. The driving system includes a microcontroller/ 
field-programmable-gate-array-based control kernel with multiple-channel driving circuits 
implemented by a high-voltage switching/ LC-resonance/ impedance-matching circuit module. 
Three hemispherical phased arrays comprising 22, 31, and 80 elements were fabricated and tested. 
The pressure distributions at the geometric center and at off-center positions were tested 
experimentally. The focal performance of the different hemispherical arrays was also evaluated 
theoretically. The results showed that the developed phased-array system can successfully drive 
the hemispherical array with multiple-channel ultrasound signals with independent phase control 
at 8-bit resolution. Good focusing abilities were evident both at the geometric center and at 
specific off-center target positions. Preliminary animal experiments show that the BBB in rat can 
be locally disrupted successfully. The system will serve as a reference platform for developing a 
focused-ultrasound system for clinical use in brain drug delivery applications. 
 
Main finding: 
Three hemispherical phased arrays were constructed in-house. The first two arrays contained 
22 and 31 round piezoelectric ceramic elements (center frequency = 270 kHz, -3 dB bandwidth = 
20 kHz; PZT-4, Huanchen Inc., Chung-Li, Taiwan), where each element had a diameter and 
thickness of 25 and 7 mm, respectively, and were infixed into a plastic hemispherical mold with 
an inner diameter of 150 mm and a radius of curvature of 75 mm. The electric-to-acoustic 
efficiency of the PZT-4 element was 15-20%, as measured by an acoustic power meter (Ohmic 
Instruments, Easton, Maryland, USA). The third array contained 80 elements of the same round 
ceramic elements infixed into a hemispherical mold with an inner diameter of 250 mm and a 
curvature radius of 125 mm. For all arrays, the elements were equally spaced around the mold 
surface. Thin silicone-rubber gel was sprayed on the inner side of these hemispherical arrays so 
as to seal the plastic–piezoelectric-ceramic gap. A simple housing (made of acrylic plastic) was 
used to seal each element on the outer side. 
The focal beam steering performance was also tested. Figure 5 shows photographs of the 
designed 22-, 31-, and 80-channel hemispherical ultrasound phased arrays. Figure 5(d) shows a 
rear view of the waterproof plastic housing for each channel in the 31-channel array. The 
8 
 
 
Fig. 4. Theoretically estimated (upper row) and measured (lower row) two-dimensional pressure 
distributions generated by different hemispherical ultrasound phased arrays focused at the 
geometric center: (a, d) 22 channels, (b, e) 31 channels, and (c, f) 80 channels. Contours ranging 
from 10% to 90% with 20% increment were shown. 
 
Figure 5 shows the blue-stained regions (left and middle panels showing surface and 
sectional-plane observations respectively) indicating the BBB-disruptive regions and the 
corresponding HE sections (right panel) under different power levels. The BBB-disruptive 
regions appeared closed to the planned sonicated locations, showing that the proposed positioning 
procedure can serve as a good alternative before integrating high-precision medical-imaging 
guided approach into this system. Dimension of BBB-disruption correlates with the applied 
power, i.e., higher power delivery induced larger BBB-disruptive region. When observing the 
60-W power deliver case, the BBB-disruption dimension was estimated to be about 3 mm along 
the cross sectional plane (i.e., X-Y plane) and 6 mm along the axial direction (i.e., Z direction), 
which was matched the aspect ratio of the predicted and measured focal spot. 40-W sonication 
induced relatively light and superficial BBB-disruption and 90-W sonication induced large 
BBB-disruption region which almost covered the whole right parenchyma. No hemorrhage was 
found from the 40-W sonication. On the contrary, severe and large-scale brain tissue hemorrhage 
was observed in 90-W sonication (see the corresponding H&E stains in right panel of Fig. 10). 
This preliminary in-vivo animal experiment confirms the feasibility of using the designed system 
to perform localized and transcranial BBB disruption. 
 
10 
 
Focused ultrasound has been discovered to be able to locally and reversibly increase the 
permeability of the blood–brain barrier (BBB). However, inappropriate sonication of the BBB 
may cause complications such as hemorrhage and brain tissue damage. Tissue damage may be 
controlled by selecting the optimal sonication parameters. In this study, we sought to investigate 
the feasibility of labeling cells with SPIO particles to assess the inflammatory response during 
focused-ultrasound induced BBB opening. We demonstrate that infiltration of phagocytes does 
not occur using optimal parameters of sonication. Taken together, our results support the 
usefulness and safety of focused-ultrasound induced BBB opening for enhancing drug delivery to 
brain. These findings may have implications for optimization of sonication parameters. 
 
Main finding: As shown in Fig. 1(b), BBB disruption was obtained either using multiple 
sonications at an acoustic pressure of 1.1 MPa (upper panel) or a single sonication at the high 
acoustic pressure of 2.45 MPa (lower panel). Repeated sonications at 1.1 MPa resulted in a larger 
area of BBB opening compared with that obtained using a single high-pressure sonication (2 mm 
in diameter at the focal depth). Only few areas of erythrocyte extravasations were evident in 
regions of BBB opening following sonications at 1.1 MPa. In the contrast, a single 2.45-MPa 
sonication produced a severe intracerebral hemorrhage (red arrow) within the area of BBB 
disruption (white arrow).  
 
 
Fig. 1. (a) Schematic diagram of the focused ultrasound system setup; (b) Typical blue-dyed brain 
sections sonicated at 1.1 MPa (resulting in BBB opening) and  2.45 MPa (resulting in BBB 
opening complicated by intracerebral hemorrhage). Black dots indicate the patterns of sonications 
used in the two protocols. 
 
Figure 2 shows MRI images of control animals and of those receiving SPIO. Gd-enhanced 
T1 images showed an increase in hyperintense signal at two sites of sonication sites (left panel: 
six sonications at 1.1 MPa; right panel: single sonication at 2.45 MPa). Disruption of the BBB 
was confirmed in both cases. Imaging was continued until 24 hours after sonication (i.e., 48 hours 
after SPIO injection in SPIO-treated rats). The T2* image obtained immediately after the T1 
image showed hypointensity at the right sonication site. This reflects the presence of an 
intracerebral hemorrhage due to the excessive acoustic pressure applied during sonication. 
Notably, the application of six sonications at a pressure of 1.1 MPa did not result in the 
occurrence of intracerebral hemorrhage. It follows that this acoustic pressure was relatively safe 
and below the threshold for hemorrhage.  
Subsequent T2* images obtained at 4 and 24 hours showed different patterns. Specifically, 
the area of hypointensity was relatively constant in the control group, whereas it was significantly 
expanded in SPIO-treated rats receiving 2.45 MPa sonications. Notably, the signal loss on T2* 
12 
 
 
Fig. 3. Reconstruction of the hypointense volume presented in Fig. 3 from T2*-MRI.  
 
The occurrence of an inflammatory response in areas of BBB opening is also evident in 
T2* images obtained at 3 hours. Figure 4 shows the analysis of MRI SI time course in 
SPIO-treated animals. Five selected regions are zoomed and depicted (Fig. 4(a)) including blood 
vessels neighboring to brain (regions 1 and 2), brain areas sonicated at 1.1 and 2.45 MPa (regions 
3 and 5), and midbrain artery (region 4). Ultrasonic energy was delivered at 10 minutes after 
initiation of T2* scans (arrow). Five selected time points are shown in Fig. 6(b), and the 
corresponding time changes in SI were recorded accordingly (Fig. 4(c)). As shown in Fig. 4, 
multiple sonications at 1.1 MPa (region 3) did not result in the occurrence of brain hemorrhagic 
damage and no apparent signal change was evident. In addition, there was no apparent 
SPIO-laden monocyte inflitration in these areas. Conversely, a single sonication at 2.45 MPa 
induced formation of intracerebral hemorrhage that resulted in turn in an immediate 10% signal 
drop, followed by another gradual decrease. The total drop in the SI at the end of the imaging was 
15% at the end of 3-hour. These findings suggest a continuous infiltration of SPIO-labeled 
macrophages at sites sonicated at 2.45 MPa. Of interest is also the observation that an 
approximately 30% SI drop was evident in selected neighboring blood vessels. This drop peaked 
at about 60 minutes and subsequently recovered to baseline values. A similar pattern of SI drop 
was detected in the midbrain artery (region 4), albeit to a lesser extent (approximately 12% from 
baseline values). The pattern in SI changes in circulatory areas (regions 1, 2, and 4) was 
characterized by a quick SI rebound. This suggests that SPIO-laden macrophages did not stall in 
these areas. This pattern was therefore different from that observed in areas of suspected 
inflammation (region 5). Accordingly, inflammatory areas were characterized by a gradual drop 
in SI due to infiltration and accumulation of SPIO-laden macrophages. 
14 
 
 
Fig. 5. Histological examination to assess the occurrence of an inflammatory response at sites of 
sonication by FITC-coated CD-11b fluorescent antibodies staining (left panel), Prussian-blue 
staining (middle panel), and the corresponding magnified images (right panel). Row 1 (a–c): 
brains sonicated at 1.1 MPa. Row 2 and 3: brains sonicated at 2.45 MPa, either without or with 
SPIO administration at 24 hours before sonication, respectively. Sonications at 2.45 MPa resulted 
in a significant macrophage infiltration at the site of sonication. Notably, the use of SPIO allowed 
the tracking of the inflammatory response in vivo (arrows). Bar = 50 μm. 
 
Significance and Contribution: 
In the present study, we have demonstrated that the brain inflammatory response that 
accompanies ultrasound–induced BBB disruption can be detected using the cell-labeling MRI 
technique. Our findings may have implications for optimization of ultrasound parameters.  
The result has been submitted to the Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism after 
the summarization, and has been accepted / published: 
H-L Liu, Y-Y Wai, P-H Hsu, L-A Lyu, J-S Wu, C-R Shen, J-C Chen, T-C Yen, and J-J 
Wang, “In Vivo Assessment of Macrophage CNS Infiltration during Disruption of the 
Blood–brain Barrier with Focused Ultrasound: A Magnetic Resonance Imaging Study,” 
Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism, Accepted, 2009 (SCI IF: 5.741, 25/219 in 
“Neuroscience”). 
 
1.4. Opening of the Blood-Brain Barrier By Low-Frequency (28-kHz) Ultrasound:  
A Novel Pinhole-Assisted Mechanical Scanning Device  
Disruption of blood-brain barrier (BBB) may be transiently achieved via high-frequency 
focused spherical ultrasound in the presence of microbubbles. In this experimental animal study, 
we sought to determine whether focal reversible opening of the BBB may be achieved using 
low-frequency (i.e., 20–30 kHz) planar ultrasonic waves. In the presence of microbubbles, we 
were able to obtain the opening of the BBB using non-focused ultrasound irradiation with a 
frequency as low as 28 kHz. We also achieved a tight regulation of the ultrasound patterns by 
using a mechanical scanning device equipped with a pinhole. Histological examination of the 
brains supported the feasibility of our system. The areas of BBB disruption obtained with our 
method were large enough to cover a typical circumscribed cerebral tumor mass. The inherent 
advantages of our BBB opening method may include an improved portability, the possibility to 
obtain fairly wide areas of BBB opening, and a low incidence of hemorrhagic complications. In 
16 
 
at 1 Hz and 10 ms, respectively. Sonication for 4 min) did not result in BBB opening (occurrence 
rate = 0%), which was confirmed by no Evans blue stains been observed from brain section. In 
contrast, disruption of the BBB occurred when the brains were sonicated for 6 min (occurrence 
rate = 50%) or 8-10 minutes (occurrence rate = 100%), and the BBB disruption regions were 
clearly stained on brain sections by Evans blue (regions presenting in blue-color stains in Fig. 
8(b)-(d); contours were added for better identify their distributions). A longer sonication time 
resulted in a larger area of BBB disruption and in a deeper penetration into the brain. During the 
10-min sonication, the area of BBB opening was detected not only in the axial but also in the 
lateral direction. At the fixed PRF and pulse duration, a sonication duration of 6 minutes was 
regarded as the minimal threshold required for BBB opening and this value was used as a 
reference in the following experiments. 
 
 
Fig. 8. Area of BBB opening obtained by low-frequency ultrasound exposure. Different 
sonication times without mechanical scanning were used.: (a) 4 min; (b) 6 min; (c) 8 min; and (d) 
10 min. Pulse duration: 10 ms. 
 
Figure 6 shows staining with HE of the four brains depicted in Fig. 9. Hemorrhagic damage 
occurred rarely with 4- and 6-min sonications (two cases had a score of 0). A longer 8-min 
sonication (Fig. 6(c)) resulted in erythrocyte extravasations in a few cases. As shown by arrows 
in Fig. 6(c), clusters of extravasated erythrocytes were evident around the sonicated locations 
(hemorrhage level: 1) (Hynynen et al. 2005; Hynynen et al. 2003; Liu et al. 2008). Sonications 
for 10 min (Fig. 9(d) resulted in microhemorrhages at the sonication site, with large and 
continuous erythrocytes extravasations (red stains indicated by arrows). These cases were graded 
with a hemorrhage level of 2. Necrotic brain damage occurred in some cases of 10-min 
sonication.  
18 
 
 
We then evaluated the effect of low-frequency ultrasound BBB opening obtained with and 
without mechanical scanning. The differences between the patterns of BBB disruption obtained 
without and with mechanical scanning at a pulse duration of 50 and 100 ms, respectively are 
shown in Fig. 10 (upper and lower rows, respectively). When the transducer was kept in a fixed 
position and a pulse duration increasing from 50 to 100 ms, the area of BBB disruption extended 
to the deeper brain regions originated from brain surface. In the mechanically-assisted scanning 
configuration, it was found that the BBB opening region was originated from deep brain region 
and then extended as the pulse duration increased compared with the fixed configuration. Also 
noticeably, sonication with the mechanically-assisted device still resulted in a low hemorrhagic 
damage level of 1 in average in 100-ms sonication. 
The area of BBB disruption alongside with the corresponding hemorrhagic damage using the 
different sonication settings are all summarized in Fig. 11 (1 to 4: fixed-steering, pulse duration = 
10 ms, duration = 4 to 10 min.; 5, 6: fixed-steering, pulse duration = 50/ 100 ms, duration = 6 
min.; 7, 8: mechanical-scanning, pulse duration = 50/ 100 ms, duration = 6 min). In general, an 
increase in the exposure time resulted in an increased BBB-opening area as well as in a higher 
hemorrhagic score. Severe hemorrhage occurred at a pulse duration of 100 ms or with an 
exposure time of 10 min. Compared with the fixed configuration, the mechanically-assisted 
scanning modality was capable to induce a larger area of BBB opening with a comparatively 
lower hemorrhagic damage. 
 
  
Fig. 11. (a) Areas of BBB opening, and (b) corresponding levels of hemorrhage using 
different sonication parameters. 1-4: fixed steering, pulse duration = 10 ms, exposure time = 4/ 6/ 
8/ 10 min.; 5, 6: fixed steering, pulse duration = 50/ 100 ms, exposure time = 6 min.; 7, 8: 
mechanically-assisted scanning, pulse duration = 50/ 100 ms, exposure time = 6 min.. 
 
Significance and Contribution: 
In this study we have shown that low-frequency sonication at 28-kHz with the use of a 
pinhole-assisted mechanical scanning apparatus may effectively induce BBB opening in an 
experimental rat model. To our knowledge, this is the first sonication system that uses 
non-focused ultrasound to elicit BBB disruption. In addition, the ultrasound frequency used in 
this study was the lowest reported thus far for this purpose. Our system allowed to obtain areas of 
BBB opening ranging in size from millimeters to centimeters with little or no hemorrhagic 
damage. The dimension of the ultrasonic beam obtained with our system was larger (~5 mm at 
any depth) than those obtained with high-frequency ultrasound (e.g. 2–3 mm at the focal depth 
20 
 
pressures of ≥ 0.98 MPa.  
 
Figure 12. (a) Contrast-enhanced T1-weighted (upper) and heavy-T2* weighted (middle) MRIs 
of rat brains sonicated at peak pressures of 0.62 and 0.98 MPa. Arrows indicate the region 
disrupted by FUS. Evans Blue dye (bottom) shows the accompanying ICH caused by the 
excessive pressure; both brain surfaces (prefixation) and brain sections (postfixed) are shown. (b) 
Normalized signal intensity (SI; mean ± S.D.) of contrast-enhanced T1-weighted images from rat 
brains sonicated at peak ultrasonic pressures ranging from 0 (control) to 1.35 MPa. *: p < 0.05: 
**: Samples showing evidence of ICH, as assessed by T2*-weighted MRI. 
 
The effect of FUS-induced BBB disruption on the local concentration of BCNU in normal 
and tumor-implanted brains was then determined (Fig. 13). In normal brains, ultrasound 
treatment (0.62 MPa) beforehand increased BCNU concentration in the brain by 340% (from 150 
to 513 g). FUS treatment using pressures higher or lower than 0.62 MPa did not improve BCNU 
deposition beyond this level (Fig. 13b). BCNU deposition was therefore quantified in 
tumor-implanted brains after sonication with 0.62 MPa; both tumor-implanted and contralateral 
hemispheres were examined. The tumor-implanted and contralateral sites of unsonicated rats 
showed BCNU concentrations similar to each other and to those seen in normal rat brains 
receiving BCNU alone. However, after sonication to enhance BBB disruption at the tumor site, 
there was a nearly twofold increase (from 170 to 344 g) of BCNU at the tumor, whereas the 
BCNU concentration at the contralateral site remained unchanged. Based on its abilities both to 
induce BBB disruption without significant ICH and to increase localized BCNU concentrations in 
brain tissue, a sonication pressure of 0.62 MPa was therefore selected for all subsequent FUS 
treatments on animals with induced tumors. 
22 
 
complete shrinkage of the tumors. 
Figure 16c compares the survival curves among the four treatment groups. In controls, the 
median survival was 28.5 days. FUS treatment alone did not improve animal survival; indeed, 
there was a slight decrease in median survival (25.5 days, ISTmedian = 10%), although this did 
not appear to be statistically significant (p = 0.92). Animals treated with BCNU alone showed a 
promising and significant increase in median survival (33 days, ISTmedian = 15.7%; p = 0.023 
relative to control). However, treatment with both FUS and BCNU produced the most significant 
benefit, increasing the median survival to 53 days (p = 0.0015). Rats from this group were the 
only ones surviving beyond the 60-day MRI follow-up period (2 out of 6 rats). Overall, the 
results of these experiments suggest that the use of FUS to enhance BCNU delivery into brain 
tumors has a better effect on suppressing tumor progression and improving animal survival than 
the use of either treatment alone. 
 
 
Figure 14. Representative MRIs showing rat brains with induced tumors at day 10. (a, c) 
presonication; (b, d) postsonication. The arrows in the contrast-enhanced T1-weighted MRIs 
(upper) indicate the BBB-disrupted region; the corresponding heavy-T2* weighted MRIs (lower) 
were acquired immediately after the images in the upper panels. 
 
24 
 
Histological examination of brains obtained from control and FUS + BCNU rats showed 
large tumors and some necrosis. In control rats, tumor cells were characterized by dense nuclear 
distribution (Figs. 17a–c). In contrast, in FUS + BCNU rats, in which tumor shrinkage was 
observed by MRI, only tiny areas of gliosis infiltrated with chronic inflammatory cells were 
found (Figs. 17d–f).  
 
 
Figure 17. Hematoxylin-and-eosin-stained sections of rat brains. Tissues were collected for 
analysis from tumor-implanted brains 24 (control; a-c) or 60 (FUS + BCNU; d-f) days after 
treatment. (a,d) whole brain section; (b,e) 4X; (c,f) 10X. 
 
Significance and Contribution: 
This study demonstrates that focused ultrasound treatment serves a noninvasive method for 
the targeted delivery of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea through the blood–brain barrier such 
that the chemotherapeutic drug dosage can be increased specifically in the tumor region, 
significantly suppressing tumor growth and prolonging animal survival. Because BCNU is 
already an FDA-approved chemotherapeutic drug for glioblastoma, this procedure could be 
highly clinically relevant, and this study might advance the use of chemotherapy to treat patients 
with central nervous system malignancies. 
The result has been submitted to the Radiology Journal after the summarization, and 
has been accepted / published: 
 
H-L Liu, M-Y Hua, P-Y Chen, P-C Chu, C-H Pan, H-W Yang, C-Y Huang, J-J Wang,  
T-C Yen and K-C Wei, “Blood–Brain Barrier Disruption by Focused Ultrasound Enhances 
Delivery of Chemotherapeutic Drugs for Glioblastoma Treatment,” Radiology, Accepted 
(SCI IF: 5.996, 2/90 in “Radiology”) 
 
 
2. 未來規劃 
聚焦式超音波(focused ultrasound)最大優點在於其有對腦組織之非侵入性並使正常腦
26 
 
Disruption and Brain Hemorrhage," Journal of Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Vol. 29, No. 1, 
pp. 31-38, 2009 (SCI IF: 2.209, 29/90 in “Radiology”). 
7.     H-L Liu, H-W Chen, Z-H Kuo, and W-C Huang, “Design and Experimental Evaluations of a 
Low-Frequency Hemispherical Ultrasound Phased-Array System for Transcranial 
Blood-Brain Barrier Disruption” IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering, Vol.55, No. 
10, pp. 2407-2416., 2008 (SCI IF: 2.496, 15/51 in “Engineering, Biomedical”). 
8.  J-J Wang, Y-C Lin, Y-Y Wai, H-L Liu, C-P Lin, Y-Z Huang, “Visualization of the coherence 
of the principal diffusion orientation: an eigenvector-based approach,” Magn Reson Med., 
Vol. 59, No. 4, pp.764-770, 2008 (SCI IF: 3.508, 10/84). 
9.  H-L Liu, Y-Y Wai, W-S Chen, J-C Chen, P-H Hsu, X-Y W, W-C Huang, T-C Yen, and J-J 
Wang, “Hemorrhage Detection during Focused-Ultrasound Induced Blood–Brain-Barrier 
Opening by Using Susceptibility-Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging,” Ultrasound in 
Medicine & Biology, Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 598-606, 2008 (SCI IF: 2.395, 3/26 in 
“Acoustics”). 
10. H-L Liu, W-L Lin, and Y-Y Chen , “A Fast and Conformal Heating Scheme for Producing 
Large Thermal Lesions Using a 2-D Ultrasound Phased Array,” International Journal of 
Hyperthermia, Vol. 23, No. 1, pp. 69 – 82, 2007 (SCI IF: 2.339, 36/90 in “Radiology”). 
 
28 
 
技術特點 
1. 本技術為一套至少具有 32 獨立通道之射頻超音波驅動系統。 
2. 本技術具獨立通道之功率可調及回授控制之功能，以滿足各式
實際超音波非侵入性治療之需求。 
推廣及運用的價值 
高階醫療射頻電子電路設計及開發。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 2
-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) to treat glioblastoma in animal models and evaluate 
whether this approach would gain treatment efficacy. Under the presence 
of microbubbles administration, a 400-kHz focused ultrasound was employed 
to deliver burst-tone ultrasonic energy stimulation to disrupt BBB in 
animal brains transcranially, and in-vivo monitored by 
magnetic-resonance imaging (MRI). C6-glioma cells were cultured and 
implanted into Sprague-Dawley rats as the brain-tumor model. BCNU 
deposited in brain was quantified by using high-performance liquid 
chromatography (HPLC), and brain tissues were examined histologically. 
MRI was employed to longitudinal evaluate the brain tumor treatment 
including the analysis of tumor progression and animal survival. We 
confirmed that the focused ultrasound, under the secure ultrasonic energy 
level, can significantly enhance the BCNU penetration through BBB over 
300% than control without cause hemorrhage. Apparent improvement of 
treatment efficacy achieved by combining focused ultrasound with BCNU 
delivery, including significant suppression of tumor growth and a 
prolonged animal survival. This study highly support that this treatment 
strategy could be clinically-relevant and may help to provide another 
potential strategy in increasing local chemotherapeutic drugs for 
brain-tumor treatment. 
 
I、參加會議心得:  
本次會議共分三天。第一天(9/24)主要議程安排包括邀請演講(keynote 
speech) 、 超 音 波 熱 手 術 (Ultrasound surgery) 、 超 音 波 血 栓 溶 解
(sonothrombolysis)、超音波用於組織蝕壞 (HIFU tissue erosion)、US-guided 
HIFU(超音波導引 HIFU)、超音波對比劑及藥物釋放(Contrast physics & drug 
 4
第二天(9/25)主要議程安排包括邀請演講(keynote speech)、 HIFU 
physics、空穴效應應用(Use of cavitation in HIFU)、HIFU QA 及療程規畫 
(Quality assessment & treatment planning)、Drug delivery & monitoring in 
the brain(腦部藥物釋控)、HIFU 探頭設計(HIFU transducer)、 HIFU 強化藥物
釋控(Principles for HIFU-mediated drug delivery)。以下摘選數篇發表作介
紹 : 本 人 所 發 表 之 口 頭 報 告 主 題 為  “Focused ultrasound induced 
blood-brain barrier disruption to enhance chemotherapeutic drugs (BCNU) 
delivery for glioblastoma treatment＂被安排於 “腦部藥物釋控＂議程中發
表演講，主要介紹利用聚焦式超音波開啟 BBB 後進行腦部腫瘤強化化療藥物吸收
並有效控制腫瘤生長以及提升動物存活率之報告。由於以此技術作腦部藥物釋放
近幾年被認為是相當重要之議題，現階段仍只有相當少數之文章發表實際對動物
治療之結果，因此所發表之主題立刻引起相當大之回響。Dr. Hancock 分享了
“Investigations in to the influence of pulsed high intensity focused 
ultrasound on metastasis in a murine model，＂介紹了在小鼠進行的肝腫瘤
轉移之脈衝型 HIFU 做治療之進展。Dr. Razjouyan 分享了“Pulsed-HIFU 
enhanced delivery and therapy using radiolabeled monoclonal 
antibodies，＂介紹利用 radiolabelled 技術追蹤單株抗體進行基因轉殖時之追
蹤。 Dr. Jordao 分享了“Therapeutic benefits of ultrasound delivery of 
anti-AB antibody in an Alzheimer＇s mouse model，＂介紹利用利用 FUS 進
行 BBB 開啟後加上小鼠腦部 anti-AB antibody 之釋放治療 Alzheimer 症，結果
發現 Beta Amiloid 沉積可以有效的消除，是一種相當有潛力之療法。Dr. Geers
分享了“Virus-loaded microbubbles as a tool for targeted gene delivery，＂
介紹利用 Adeno-associated virus 包入微脂體微氣泡中做基因轉染以及基因治
療之可能性。 Dr. Crum 被邀請作特別演講，題目為“Cavitation during HIFU 
treatment，＂空穴效應近年來已被認為是超音波藥物釋放、基因轉殖、以及生
物效應引發產生之重要機制，相當重要。本演講主要分析空穴效應之物理，生成、
