 I 
Abstract 
Charge storage characteristics of metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) structure 
containing Au nanocrystals on tunnel oxide composed of triply stacked SiO2, HfO2, and 
Al2O3 layers were studied. Significantly high charge injection and detrapping efficiency for 
program and erase operations along with a satisfactory long-term charge retention were 
obtained from the above MOS structure. It is attributed to the bandgap engineering of 
tunnel oxide with a multistacked concave barrier, from which the effective thickness of the 
tunneling barrier can be greatly reduced under a moderate bias, while a thick and high 
barrier is retained for charge retention. 
 
中文摘要 
 本實驗制備了氧化矽、氧化鉿、氧化鋁三層堆疊的穿隧層結構，來研究此穿隧層對於
包含金奈米晶粒的金氧半導體結構電荷儲存特性的影響。而我們發現，此結構對於寫入與
抹除的操作具有相當高的電荷注入與排除的效率，而且還具有相當長時間的電荷保存特
性。這可以歸因於穿隧氧化層的能帶工程。使用一多層堆疊的山谷型能障，在適當的偏壓
下，穿隧層能障的有效厚度能夠被大幅地減少，而當電荷保存時又能維持一個厚且高的能
障。 
 1 
Introduction 
Silicon nanocrystal was first introduced as a replacement for the conventional 
floating gate by Tiwari et al.1 for further scaling of the tunnel oxide thickness in the 
nonvolatile memory (NVM) structure. To improve the performance, metal nanocrystals 
such as Au, Ag, Ni, Pt, and W were subsequently proposed due to their large density of 
states, strong coupling with the conduction channel, wide range of work function 
selectivity, and small energy perturbation.2–7 High-k dielectrics were also introduced to 
facilitate the equivalent oxide thickness (EOT) scaling, the interpoly leakage current 
reduction, and the field-sensitive tunneling.8 
However, the trade-off between program/erase (P/E) speeds and data retention is 
still an important issue in the application of the nanocrystal-based NVM. One promising 
way to solve this issue is through bandgap engineering of the tunnel oxide with an 
asymmetric barrier,9–11 which typically consists of doubly stacked dielectric layers with a 
high barrier adjacent to the substrate and a low barrier to the nanocrystals. Unfortunately, 
some drawbacks may still exist. Take the two-layer tunnel oxide of HfO2 /SiO2, for 
example. Due to the relatively low barrier height and easily crystallized structure of HfO2, 
its ability to suppress leakage by either thermionic emission or grain-boundary 
conduction would be low. In contrast, if the high-barrier oxide of Al2O3 in amorphous 
structure was used instead of HfO2, a good charge retaining could be obtained, but the 
tunneling efficiency will be decreased substantially as the overall barrier profile is too high 
to induce a FN tunneling at a moderate voltage. 
In this letter, we will demonstrate the effect of bandgap engineering on improving 
both the P/E performance and the data retention of NVM by using triply stacked SiO2, 
HfO2, and Al2O3 layers as the tunnel oxide. Figure 1(a) shows the schematic band 
diagram of this structure. For such a concave barrier structure, the effective barrier for 
carrier tunneling can be easily reduced because the middle layer only has a low barrier 
height that can be fast dragged below the Fermi level of electrons in Si by applying a 
moderate biasing voltage. Therefore, a high carrier tunneling efficiency can be achieved 
in both program and erase processes, as shown in Figs. 1(b) and 1(c). On the other hand, 
due to the high dielectric constant of the HfO2 layer in the middle, we can get a larger 
physical thickness for the same EOT to suppress the direct tunneling of carriers back to 
Si substrate in retention state. In addition, the Al2O3 was introduced adjacent to the Au 
nanocrystals as a high-barrier layer to suppress the leakage. 
 
Experiments 
The devices were fabricated on p-type (100) silicon substrate. After standard RCA 
clean, a thin SiO2 layer ~2 nm thick was grown by O2 dry oxidation at 900 °C. 
Subsequently, 2 nm HfO2 and 2 nm Al2O3 layers were sequentially deposited by atomic 
layer deposition (ALD) at 200 °C. After the preparation of the Al2O3 /HfO2 /SiO2 (AHS) 
multilayer tunnel oxide, a 2 nm Au layer was deposited at room temperature by rf 
magnetron sputtering and was covered with a 13 nm Al2O3 film as the blocking layer by 
 3 
µs was applied. A flatband voltage shift of −4.84 V was observed from the C-V relations, 
indicating the accomplishment of the erasing process in such an ultrashort time, which is 
much faster than that for conventional floating gate memory using single-layer tunnel 
oxide, i.e., in microsecond range. 
The charge retention characteristics of our MOS capacitors were also investigated at 
room temperature using 10 V/10 s and −10 V/10 s gate voltage stresses for electron 
(program) and hole (erase) storage, respectively. The changes in flatband voltage as a 
function of time after stressing are shown in Fig. 5. Although a charge loss of 20% and 
4.2% for stored electrons and holes have occurred after the early duration of 1000 s, the 
decay rate has slowed down for the rest of the measuring time. Extrapolation of the data 
up to ten years is also shown in the figure. A large memory window of 5.1 V is estimated 
to retain even after ten years, which satisfies the requirement for the NVM application. 
 
Conclusion 
In conclusion, the MOS capacitor embedding with Au nanocrystals on tunnel oxide 
composed of triply stacked layers of SiO2, HfO2, and Al2O3, giving a concave barrier 
structure for carrier tunneling and retaining, was fabricated. The barrier structure takes 
advantages and avoids drawbacks of each composing oxide by suitable arranging of 
their piling up sequences. It provides that the effective barrier for tunneling can be easily 
reduced under a moderate bias, leading to a significant increase in charge injection 
efficiency for program and erase operations. On the other hand, long-term charge 
retention can also be achieved from the comparatively thick tunnel oxide and the 
relatively high barrier surrounding the Au nanocrystals. 
 
 5 
Fig.1 
 
 
 7 
Fig.3 
 
 
 9 
Fig.5 
 
 
 
 
本報告內容已發表於： 
APPLIED PHYSICS LETTERS 93, 132907 (2 October 2008) 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號  NSC 96－2221－E－007－017 
計畫名稱 內鑲自組裝金屬奈米晶之 MOS 記憶體結構的製程與單電子現象研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
 劉格志  國立清華大學材料所  碩士班研究生 
會議時間地點  97/06/09~97/06/12  中國大陸重慶市 
會議名稱  2008 MRS International Materials Research Conference 
發表論文題目  Asymmetric Tunneling Oxide for Nanocrystal Memory Application 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
短短四天的會議，收穫卻是相當豐盛。會期開始前一天的歡迎會，就很幸運遇到了
朱經武先生，並且與他合照，第一天與第三天則是聽國內外學者的speech，也趁著空檔
去看了poster。第二天早上則是我的oral 時間。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
2008 IMRC in 重慶是我參與的第一個國際型會議，也是第一次能夠真正的與國外的
學者做學術交流。在會議期間中，我參與了許多知名人物的speech，如諾貝爾講得主「朱
經武」先生、Zhanguo Wang 等。雖然並非完全聽懂他們的研究，但實際上仍是受益匪
淺。我自己也在會期的第二天也在台上分享了我在清大研究所期間所做的研究。雖然只
有短短的十五分鐘，但事前的準備卻是相當久，而這十五分鐘的speech 也成為我這輩
子相當難忘的經驗。 
