 2
研究計畫成果報告中英文摘要：  
（一） 計畫中文摘要 
由馬偕‧叡理博士（Rev. Dr. George Leslie Mackay）規劃，於 1882 年建成，有「台灣北部最
早的教育學府」之稱的「牛津學堂」是典型中西合璧的建築，擁有豐富的史蹟文化內涵，現為國
家二級古蹟，亦為本校之校史館。在 95~97 年國科會專題計畫的支持下，我們完成了虛擬牛津學
堂暨馬偕文物館之建構，並完成了一套能支援室內外定位功能之虛擬導覽系統的雛形。在獲得這
些寶貴的執行經驗與成果後，主持人進一步產生了結合虛擬導覽、RFID 定位、導覽推薦及 Peer to 
Peer 傳輸的研究構想，計畫再提出一件新的二年期的國科會計畫-「支援定位與推薦功能的同儕式
虛擬導覽系統」。 
 
本計畫為期二年，計畫第一年為「支援定位與推薦功能的虛擬導覽系統之研究」，主要工作為
主動式 RFID 定位功能之改良，及虛擬導覽推薦系統之設計。預計藉由分析使用者的興趣，並偵測
使用者的位置與停留時間，主動地推薦使用者合適的導覽路線與時間，達成更有效率的導覽；計
畫第二年則是「基於位置與興趣的同儕式虛擬導覽系統之研究」，將以第一年 RFID 定位的研究成
果及導覽推薦系統為基礎，設計出能以使用者的位置及興趣為基礎的同儕式虛擬導覽系統，讓使
用者能從身旁有共同導覽興趣的同儕間，更有效率的下載相關的虛擬場景及多媒體資料，有效地
提高導覽資料的傳輸效能。 
 
關鍵詞：虛擬實境、虛擬導覽、RFID 定位、推薦、同儕式、點對點 
 
 4
前言 
有感於 2008 年由國立歷史博物館、聯合報系及奧塞美術館主辦的「驚艷米勒─田園之美畫展」
轟動全台，引起熱烈的迴響；但一般民眾去參觀「米勒畫展」時，除了需要先經過冗長的排隊外，
在展場現場時，針對每件作品的說明，仍須靠著自己輸入展品編號，才能從語音導覽裝置聽到畫
作的部分說明；而且對於作者與作品之間的關連性，亦需靠民眾自身的藝術涵養去判斷；民眾或
是走馬看花，無法得到完整且有系統的展品資訊；或是匆忙來回於展品之間，辛苦的在展場間穿
梭，實為美中不足。主持人在親身參觀「米勒畫展」而有上述感想後，嘗試結合本身原有的研究
成果，希望能做更進一步的深入研究與應用，讓各類展品的導覽能更易瞭解、更有系統，因此計
畫實作出一套「支援定位與推薦功能的同儕式虛擬導覽系統」。 
研究目的 
本計畫屬於二年期計畫中之第一年計畫。本計畫之第一年(YEAR1)為「支援定位與推薦功能
的虛擬導覽系統之研究」，主要工作為主動式 RFID 定位功能之改良，及虛擬導覽推薦系統之設計
與整合。預計藉由分析使用者的興趣，並偵測使用者的位置與停留時間，進一步主動地推薦使用
者合適的導覽路線與時間，達成更有效率、更有系統的導覽。 
計畫第二年(YEAR2)則是「基於位置與興趣的同儕式虛擬導覽系統之研究」，將以第一年 RFID
定位的研究成果及導覽推薦系統為基礎，設計出能以使用者的位置及興趣為基礎的同儕式
(Peer-to-peer)虛擬導覽系統，讓使用者能從身旁有共同導覽興趣的同儕間，更有效率的下載相關的
虛擬場景及多媒體資料，有效地提高導覽資料的傳輸效能。 
成果報告 
在 98 年國科會研究計畫的支持下，我們完成了預期之工作目標。本計畫藉由分析使用者的興
趣，並偵測使用者的位置與停留時間，可主動地推薦使用者合適的導覽路線與時間，達成更有效
率、更有系統的導覽方式。本計畫主要完成的項目有：「主動式 RFID 定位功能之改良與實作」、「導
覽推薦機制與使用者介面之設計與實作」、「虛擬導覽系統與推薦機制之整合與實作」。主要之成果
簡述於下： 
YEAR1-2：導覽推薦機制與使用者介面之設計與實作 
此部分研究完成了導覽推薦機制和使用者個人化介面的設計與實作(如圖 3 所示)，個人化介面
中包含會員帳號密碼、個人資料、個人偏好設定及意見 4 大部分。興趣欄位可讓使用者勾選所想
參觀的展覽品種類，再藉由使用者勾選的選項推薦參觀路徑(選項為複選，供使用者依照個人興趣
勾選)，規劃時間的欄位則使系統能依照每個人預計參觀的時間長短，個別規劃各個參觀點所要花
費的時間。 
 
圖 3：導覽推薦機制之使用者介面示意圖 
若使用者沒有勾選興趣取向，則系統所預設之路徑，亦即經過所有展覽品的路徑將如圖 4 所
示。若訪客經由使用者介面設定好個人的背景與偏好後，根據個人化偏好資料(符合使用者興趣的
文物)和設定參觀起訖的時間，系統即能篩選出適合給使用者的推薦資訊，並推薦符合訪客需求的
參觀動線及個別展區的時間（如圖 5 所示）。圖 5 中的英文字母(A、B、C…)代表展覽文物的種類，
虛線代表系統規劃的路線，實線框選部分是符合使用者興趣的文物，藍色是表示已走過的路線，
黃色則是表示未走過的路線（如圖 6 所示）。 
 
圖 4：預設經過所有展覽文物的參觀動線示意圖 
 6
YEAR1-3：虛擬導覽系統與推薦機制之整合與實作 
此部分研究完整地完成了虛擬導覽系統與推薦機制之整合。如圖 7 所示的導覽介面中，導覽
路線顯示於左上角，時間規劃顯示則流程於左下角。當使用者移動到某一展覽品的位置，導覽地
圖上會經由 RFID 定位功能即時顯示使用者的所在位置(如圖 7 中之綠色圓點所示)，而使用者已經
參觀過的區域及路線則會由黃色改變成藍色作為識別。在參觀中，若使用者對某一展覽品特別有
興趣，則可以藉由點選虛擬展覽品來顯示文物的詳細資訊(如圖 8 右下角視窗所示)，以豐富導覽的
深度與樂趣。  
 
圖 7：結合推薦機制之虛擬導覽介面示意圖 
 
圖 8：導覽流程動態顯示及導覽資訊示意圖 
 8
 10
附錄(計畫成果所發表之期刊及國際會議論文)： 
 (A)期刊論文 
1. Ching-Sheng Wang, "LOVINA: Location-aware Virtual Navigation System Based on Active RFID", 
accepted for publication in International Journal of Ad Hoc and Ubiquitous Computing (Special Issue 
on: "Ubiquitous RFID Computing"). (SCI, 2009 IF=0.865) (NSC98-2221-E-156-007) 
(B)研討會論文 
2. Ching-Sheng Wang, Chun-Hong Huang, Yong-Si Chen, and Li-Jie Zheng, An Implementation of 
Positioning System in Indoor Environment based on Active RFID, The Second IEEE International 
Conference on Ubi-media Computing, Taipei, Taiwan, Dec. 2009. (EI) (NSC98-2221-E-156-007) 
3. Ching-Sheng Wang, Lun-Ping Hung, Sheng-Yu Peng, and Li-Chieh Cheng, A Laser Point Interaction 
System Integrating Mouse Functions, 2010 International Conference on Computer Vision, Image and 
Signal Processing, Bali, Indonesia.  July 2010. (EI)  (NSC98-2221-E-156-007) 
4. Ching-Sheng Wang, Xin-Mao Huang and Ming-Yu Hung, Adaptive RFID Positioning System Using 
Signal Level Matrix, 2010 International Conference on Sensor Networks, Information, and 
Ubiquitous Computing, Singapore.  Aug. 2010. (EI)  (NSC-98-2221-E-156-007& 
NSC-99-2221-E-156-004) 
 
2 C-S. Wang  
the layout of the RFID sensing areas. It refers to users’ paths 
to precisely detect their locations in the real scene and then 
combines that information with the 3D navigation system to 
show the users’ corresponding positions in the virtual  
scene. On the basis of the positioning mechanism, the 
system can download scenes in advance and also prompt 
users to visit nearby artefacts and buildings and understand 
detailed information about the exhibits more completely. 
This paper is organised as follows. Section 2 describes 
research related to RFID localisation. Section 3 discusses 
the proposed RFID localisation mechanism. The 
performance evaluation is described in Section 4, and 
Section 5 presents the implementation and results  
of the proposed system. Finally, a brief conclusion  
and future work are presented in Section 6. 
2 Related work 
The accuracy of an RFID localisation system depends on 
the RFID configuration and the quality of the positioning 
mechanism; moreover, the selection of either active or 
passive RFID directly affects the design method and overall 
system performance. Because the sensing range of passive 
RFID is too small and the signal strength cannot be 
identified, hundreds of tags would be required for a museum 
exhibit to locate tourists, increasing the cost and possibly 
damaging items in the exhibit. Thus, active RFID is 
employed for the positioning of people. 
Several RFID positioning systems have been proposed 
(Hightower and Borriello, 2000; Ni et al., 2003; Krishnan  
et al., 2004; Jin et al., 2006; Shih et al., 2006; Yihua et al., 
2009; Zhao et al., 2007; Yin et al., 2008; Li, 2005;  
Jiang et al., 2009; Yang, 2005; Jian, 2005). The existing 
active RFID localisation technology mainly factors the 
Received Signal Strength (RSS), Time of Arrival (TOA), 
Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA) and Angle of Arrival 
(AOA). 
SpotON introduced the concept of active RFID 
localisation (Hightower and Borriello, 2000). In 2000,  
a group of scholars headed by Jeffery Hightower proposed 
the concept of RFID signal strength localisation and also 
developed the SpotON system for positioning unidentified 
objects using a self-manufactured RFID device. SpotON 
employs an RFID reader and many electronic tags to 
construct an indoor wireless sensing environment.  
The signal strength between the tags and an RFID reader is 
estimated through the so-called signal strength regression 
model, and finally, the position of tracked objects is 
calculated via the signal strength information. 
The well-known LANDMARC system (Ni et al., 2003) 
adopted the method of SpotON to estimate distance by 
using the signal strength between a reference tag and  
a tracing tag; the positions of targets are estimated by taking 
the reference tag as a reference point. The LEASE system 
(Krishnan et al., 2004) also utilised reference points to 
offset the variations of RSS samples. Jin et al. (2006) 
proposed a reference tag screening mechanism based on the 
LANDMARC system that could improve the accuracy of 
indoor positioning. Shih et al. (2006) determined the weight 
from the signal strength and showed the weighted distance 
of objects, thus approaching objects through triangular 
divisions of regions. Huang et al. (2009) presented a new 
model for arranging reference tags according to a nearest 
neighbour algorithm that could also achieve better 
positioning accuracy. 
Zhao et al. (2007) used active RFID to present and 
implement an indoor positioning method using Virtual 
Reference Elimination (VIRE). In VIRE, instead of using 
many real reference RFID tags deployed in the sensing area, 
the authors employed the concept of virtual reference tags to 
provide denser reference coverage in the sensing area.  
Their method allows efficient and accurate estimation of 
object locations indoors. 
Yin et al. (2008) proposed the signal-strength-based 
Location Estimation using Model Trees (LEMT) method. 
LEMT reconstructs a radio map using real-time signal 
strength readings received at reference points. This 
algorithm considers real-time signal strength values at each 
time point and uses the dependency between estimated 
locations and reference points. Li (2005) also employed 
signal strength to develop a new localisation algorithm  
in collaboration with the nearest neighbour method,  
the probability density function and a Radial Basis Function 
(RBF) network. 
Because the relationship between signal strength and 
distance is dynamic, Jiang et al. (2009) used an algorithm 
for tracking tags to achieve higher accuracy. Yang (2005) 
resolved the problem of unclear identification of reference 
tags using a two-phase cluster algorithm. Jian (2005) 
proposed a TOA–AOA localisation algorithm that estimates 
the time delay and incidence angle of signal sources  
with only an RFID receiver and suppresses co-channel 
interference with a matched filter, helping to reduce the cost 
and achieve accurate positioning. 
Although the above-mentioned research presents some 
good localisation mechanisms, unstable RFID signals 
usually result in unsatisfactory localisation errors in these 
systems. In this paper, based on the adaptation of the signal 
strengths, layout of sensing regions and analysis of users’ 
tracks, an adaptive RFID localisation mechanism is 
developed to reduce the number of tags and improve 
positioning accuracy. 
3 Adaptive RFID localisation mechanism 
Most RFID localisation methods are based on tag signal 
strengths, which differ from each other. This paper provides 
a way of setting a proper reference value for signal strength 
according to the environment and individual variations  
in RFID tags. Figure 1 shows a flow chart of the proposed 
localisation algorithm. First, tags are arranged and 
initialised in the sensing area. When a qualified RSS from 
more than two tags are detected by the reader, the user’s 
position is determined and recorded. The user’s tracks are 
also analysed to refine the positioning accuracy. The 
proposed localisation mechanism includes three main steps: 
4 C-S. Wang  
Figure 3 Received signal strengths of different tags at different 
distances: (a) 1 m; (b) 2 m; (c) 3 m; (d) 4 m  
(see online version for colours) (continued) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
The localisation mechanism presented in this paper 
addresses this issue by adopting a proper referenced  
threshold of signal strength according to different 
environments and tags. Our system continuously analyses 
the signal strength from different tags and filters out 
unstable signals. It then represents the signal strength by the 
mean value within unit time and finally adopts a referenced 
threshold for individual tags as the basis for judging the 
sensing region. 
Figure 4 shows the mean RSS values received by all 
tags at 0.5–4 m after unstable signals are filtered out. The 
figure shows that the signal strengths at 0.5–4 m vary but 
have an inverse correlation with the distance between the 
reader and the tags. Thus, a proper referenced threshold of 
signal strength for various tags can be adopted at different 
distance intervals, particularly the stable signals within 2 m 
adopted by us. 
 
 
 
Figure 4 Average value of filtered Received Signal Strengths 
(see online version for colours) 
 
3.3 Analysis of user tracks 
When a user carrying a notebook or mobile device with an 
RFID reader walks into the positioning area, the positioning 
system records a series of continuing coordinates, i.e., the 
user’s tracks. On the basis of an analysis of these tracks,  
the sensor areas described earlier are re-divided into smaller 
and more precise sensor areas, as shown in Figure 5. 
Figure 5 Illustration of (a) area re-division and (b) user’s tracks 
(see online version for colours) 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
 
 
6 C-S. Wang  
Figure 7 Positioning accuracy of our system compared with other systems (see online version for colours) 
 
 
 
 
5 Implementation of Location-aware Virtual 
Navigation System (LOVINA) 
The proposed system architecture of the LOVINA is shown 
in Figure 8. The system first uses 3DS MAX and Quest 3D 
to construct the 3D scenes and virtual navigation system.  
It then classifies and stores all virtual scenes and multimedia 
data in digital archives. The appearance and interior scenes 
of a museum are shown in Figure 9. 
Figure 8 System architecture (see online version for colours) 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 Appearance and interior scenes of virtual Mackay 
Museum (see online version for colours) 
 
The experimental environment of a positioning system 
using 20 RFID tags was developed in an actual hall of 
Mackay Museum (Mackay and Oxford College, 2009),  
as shown in Figure 10. Active RFID tags were arranged at 
2 m intervals in a 6 × 8 m2 environment, and every tag had a 
unique number. The 2 m referenced signal strength for 
every tag was tested and set by RFID signal analysis.  
The intersections of this sensing range further divided  
the 6 × 8 m2 region into numerous independent sensing 
regions. Finally, an RFID positioning system was developed 
to provide the location-aware functionality. 
Figure 11 illustrates the proposed LOVINA. When users 
carrying mobile equipment such as notebook computers or 
Ultra-Mobile PCs (UMPCs) walk around in real scenes,  
the system continuously detects and records their tracks and 
automatically updates each user’s location in the virtual 
scene. A mini-map of the entire scene appears at the bottom 
right in Figure 11(a). When users are walking outdoors,  
the GPS can effectively identify the user’s location, shown 
as the red spot in the mini-map. 
 
 
 
 
8 C-S. Wang  
Krishnan, P., Krishnakumar, A.S., Ju, W.H., Mallows, C. and 
Ganu, S. (2004) ‘A system for LEASE: location estimation 
assisted by stationary emitters for indoor RF wireless 
networks’, Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM 2004, March, 
pp.1001–1011. 
Lai, T-S. (2005) ‘The design and the evaluation of the museum 
digital guide and learning system’, National Palace  
Museum Information Center, National Computer Symposium 
(NCS-2005), Taiwan, 15–16 December, pp.1–10. 
Li, C-Y. (2005) The Implementation of An Indoor Geolocation 
System, Department of Computer Science and Information 
Engineering, National Central University, Thesis, July. 
Mackay, G. and Oxford College (2009) http://www.au.edu.tw/ox_ 
view/mackay/index-e.htm 
Miah, M.S. and Gueaieb, W. (2009) ‘A stochastic approach of 
mobile robot navigation using customized RFID systems 
signals’, 3rd International Conference on Circuits and 
Systems, Tunisia, 6–8 November, pp.1–6. 
Ni, L.M., Liu, Y. and Patil, A.P. (2003) ‘LANDMARC: indoor 
location sensing using active RFID’, Proceedings of the First 
IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing  
and Communications (PerCom’03), Fort Worth, Texas, 
pp.407–415. 
Shih, S-T., Hsieh, K. and Chen, P-Y. (2006) ‘An improvement 
approach of indoor location sensing using active RFID’, 
Proceedings of the First International Conference on 
Innovative Computing, Information and Control (ICICIC’06), 
Vol. 2, pp.453–456. 
The Virtual Navigation System of the National Palace Museum 
(2009) http://www.npm.gov.tw/ch/a030401.htm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Virtual Navigation System of the Tainan Confucian Temple 
(2009) http://confucius.cca.gov.tw/navigator/map02.htm 
Yang, C-C. (2005) A RFID-Based Location Sensing Mechanism, 
Institute of Information Management, National Chiao Tung 
University, Thesis, June. 
Yihua, H., Shilei, Lv., Zongyuan, L., Wang, J. and Shi, J. (2009) 
‘The topology analysis of reference tags of RFID indoor 
location system’, 3rd IEEE International Conference  
on Digital Ecosystems and Technologies, Istanbul, Turkey,  
1–3 June, pp.313–317. 
Yin, J., Yang, Q. and Ni, L.M. (2008) ‘Learning adaptive temporal 
radio maps for signal-strength-based location estimation’, 
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Vol. 7, No. 7, July, 
pp.869–883. 
Yu, K-M., Lee, M-G., Liao, C-T. and Lin, H-J. (2009) ‘Design and 
implementation of a RFID based real-time location-aware 
system in clean room’, IEEE International Symposium on 
Parallel and Distributed Processing with Applications, 
Chengdu, Sichuan, China, 10–12 August, pp.382–388. 
Zhao, Y., Liu, Y. and Ni, L.M. (2007) ‘VIRE: active RFID-based 
localization using virtual reference elimination’, Proceedings 
of the 2007 International Conference on Parallel Processing, 
IEEE Computer Society, XiAn, China, 10–14 September. 
Zhou, J. and Shi, J. (2009) ‘RFID localization algorithms  
and applications – a review’, Journal of Intelligent 
Manufacturing, Vol. 20, No. 6, pp.695–707. 
sensing environment, which based on the received 
radio signal strength information (RSSI). SpotON uses 
many collocated nodes, the measured positional 
accuracy can be improved through algorithmic 
techniques and erroneous distance measurements 
caused by signal attenuation can be automatically 
factored out. 
2.2 LANDMARK [2] 
LANDMARK is a location sensing prototype 
system that uses RFID technology for locating objects 
inside buildings. The major advantage of 
LANDMARK is that it improves the overall accuracy 
of locating objects by utilizing the concept of reference 
tags. Based on experimental analysis, authors 
demonstrated that active RFID which is a viable and 
cost-effective candidate for indoor location sensing. 
2.3 VIRE [3] 
Virtual Reference Elimination (VIRE) used active 
RFID to present and implement a novel indoor 
positioning method. It allows efficient and accurate 
estimation of objection locations in indoor 
environments. In VIRE, instead of using many real 
reference RFID tags deployed in the sensing area, 
authors employed the concept of virtual reference tags 
to provide denser reference coverage in the sensing 
area.  
2.4 LEMT [4] 
A novel algorithm as known as Location Estimation 
using Model Trees (LEMT), LEMT reconstructed a 
radio map by using real-time signal-strength readings 
which are received at the reference points. This 
algorithm can take real-time signal-strength values at 
each time point into account and make use of the 
dependency between the estimated locations and 
reference points. 
Although so many significant RFID localization 
researches has been undertaken, but instable RFID 
signals usually make above systems result in 
unsatisfied localization error. In our system, based on 
the analysis of the signal strengths and the intersection 
layout of sensing region, an adaptive RFID localization 
mechanism was developed to improve the accuracy of 
RFID localization. 
3. System Framework 
With the convenience of the mobile device which 
loads with RFID reader, the device can collect the 
information data of Tag immediately when user 
moving and roving in the positioning environment. 
The information data of Tag would store in the 
database and retrieve with the pre-store data. Then, the 
interface will present a piece of 2D fictitious map of 
output result. The framework of our system is shown 
as the Figure 1. 
 
 
Figure 1. The framework of indoor positioning system 
To construct the environment of RFID indoor 
positioning, we utilize the radius of the most heavy 
detection distance from RFID reader to Tag. The 
environment of detection scope is a round shape. 
Actually, because of a lot of environmental factor such 
as metal reflection, multiple path effect, hashes, etc., 
the reader cannot read the signal in this detection scope. 
According the experiment, there are some differences 
on the manifestation of the signal strength, because of 
the electric consumption of tags are different or other 
factor.  
 
Figure. 2 The illustration of optimum sensing distance 
of signal strength 
Figure 2 shows the illustration of optimum sensing 
distance of signal strength. This experiment utilized 
the same one tag to detect the signal strength with 50 
times, and calculated the average of RSSI for each 
different distance. In this experiment, the difference of 
distance could not be identified from the signal 
strength when the tag was too close or too far to the 
reader. When the distance between reader and tag was 
20cm and 30cm, the distance could not be identified 
because they are so close. If the distance between 
reader and tag was 400cm and 500cm, the detected 
strength of signal was quality small, so the difference 
detected strength of signal could not be recognized 
among them. Finally, we found that when the distance 
from 20cm to 200cm, the signal strength is more 
steady, and it can express the relative ship well of the 
distance and signal strength.  
Under the surrounding of sensor tags, the sensor 
scopes which are divided out with the intensity value 
of signal overlaps constantly with square type, 
rhombus, and triangle separately. In this positioning 
environment, we can draw up the areas which are 
unique and not overlap. And we can carry on the 
positioning for the overlapping sensing area according 
the name of sensor tag which is received with RFID 
reader. 
4.2 Analysis of the direction movement and 
signal comparison 
The level 2 would use the output of level 1 to 
evaluate the positioning subtlety. For level 2, the 
overlapping areas such as square area, triangle area, 
and rhombus area will be re-divided into more and 
smaller areas according to the center of gravity of each 
shape as shown in figure 6. In the phase of Analysis of 
the direction movement and signal comparison, the 
accuracy of positioning would be more subtle in these 
small areas. 
 
Figure 6. Re-divide areas of each overlapping area 
User holds the mobile device which loads with 
RFID reader, and moving and roving in the positioning 
environment. The reader will get the serial coordinates 
of displacement, not the coordinates with a leap or 
transient. So, in a real positioning environment, the 
continuing displacement between each near areas for 
the all overlapping areas would be guaranteed. It 
would not the displacement with a leap or transient. 
According to the feature that mention in the above 
description and the relationship of each unique number 
of each overlapping area, we can analyze the essential 
relationship of the direction movement between the 
connected areas. 
On the other side, while user moves and roves in 
the positioning environment, he will go close or far 
way to the sensor tags inevitably. In respect to the 
feature that exits the difference of the relative signal 
strength of the sensor tags in the positioning 
environment, we can evaluate the location and distance 
between user and sensor tags with matching up the 
training for interval value of signal that is a division 
into districts from center, and the training for interval 
value of the max detective distance in the sensor scope. 
Through the adjacent relationship between areas and 
the relative value intensity of signal, we can implement 
the positioning analysis for level 2 more subtle in these 
overlapping areas. 
The feature of signal strength and distance can be 
identified through the relative experiment. In the 
specific distance, the intensity value of signal is 
inversely to the distance. The distance is more far from 
the sensor tag to RFID reader, the lower signal strength 
is. On the contrary, the closer from the sensor tag to 
RFID reading device is, the signal is stronger in 
strength. We can use this feature to decide the goal 
location that belongs to which areas. So, in the 
overlapping area for level 1, we can re-divide these 
shapes (the overlapping areas: A1A2B1B2, B1B2C2, 
B2B3) based on center of gravity to bring the more 
right-angled triangles. After the work of re- division, 
we can generalize several specific routers of direction 
movement based on the neighboring relationship 
between each overlapping region. 
 
(a)                                        (b) 
Figure 7. Analysis of the direction movement and 
signal comparison 
As the example shown in Figure 7, there are four 
triangles and four rhombuses around the square, and 
the arrow presents movement direction. The movement 
directions only consider the forward paths, the 
examples just like as triangle or rhombus advance on 
square, triangle or square advance on rhombus, and as 
triangle or square advance on rhombus. It can find the 
fix movement direction just as the arrow shown in 
Figure 7(a), and also increase the accuracy of 
positioning regarding to the feature of nearest 
neighboring area with matching up the comparative 
value of signal strength as shown in the Figure 7(b). 
The other geometric patterns can reach the task based 
on the same feature as well. 
From Level 1 to level 2, the task of positioning just 
judges the coordinates of positioning according to the 
received information data simply. Without 
computation of the complex algorithm, it only 
references the comparative result which is the setting 
of the training values of the signal strength. The 
training values were produced from the signal strength 
and rhombus block of the overlapping areas at the 
interval distance 2m. 
 
Figure 10. Positioning error to the triangle block at the 
interval distance 2m 
 
Figure 11. Positioning error to the square block at the 
interval distance 2m 
 
Figure 12. Positioning error to the rhombus block at 
the interval distance 2m 
In our positioning system, we set the maximum 
error distance as the interval distance between tags, 
since if we use the positioning error distance to 
represent the accuracy of positioning, the error 
distance could not excess 2m in our positioning 
environment which sets six sensor tags with the 
interval distance 2m between each tag. As the figure 
10, 11, and 12 show, when the error distance at 1m, the 
positioning accuracy is about 90%. We supposed user 
stood in the center of gravity in of the geometrical 
block, and the distance from boundary to the center of 
gravity in of the geometrical block is less than 1m 
absolutely as well as other geometry. Under this 
phenomenon, when positioning error happened, system 
might reveal the location of the nearest neighbor on 2D 
fictitious map at most. It would not show the other 
location of the other areas on 2D fictitious map. 
Therefore, the feature of our positioning environment 
is one factor to perform the high positioning accuracy. 
6. Conclusion 
In this paper, we propose a new RFID indoor 
positioning system according to the analysis of sensor 
tag detection, comparison of signal strength, and 
relation of direction movement. Different from the 
other indoor positioning systems, we do not use many 
readers to calculate the distance by the strength of 
signals directly, but use only one RFID reader with 
user, and the tags are assigned as the way as uniform 
distribution in the positioning area based on properly 
layout method. The evaluative results show that the 
proposed system procures the goal of lower cost and 
better accuracy.  
The proposed system could be applied to many 
applications such as museum, gallery and navigation 
system, etc. When users carry a notebook or mobile 
device with RFID reader walking into the positioning 
area, users could know their location immediately and 
system could further actively reminds users to visit and 
understand the detailed information of the surrounding 
exhibitions more deeply. 
Acknowledgement 
The authors would like to thank the National 
Science Council of the Republic of China, Taiwan for 
financially supporting this research under Contract No. 
NSC 98-2221-E-156-007. 
References 
[1.] J. Hightower, C. Vakili, G. Borriello, and R. 
Want., ”Design and Calibration of the SpotON Ad-Hoc 
Location Sensing System”, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, August 2001. 
[2.] L. Ni , Y. Liu , Y. Cho Lau, A. Patil, ”LANDMARC: 
Indoor Location Sensing Using Active RFID”. Wireless 
Networks 10, Kluwer Academic Publishers. Netherlands, 
p.701–710, 2004. 
[3.] Yiyang Zhao, Yunhao Liu and Lionel M. Ni, “VIRE: 
Active RFID-based Localization Using Virtual Reference 
Elimination,” in Proc. of the 2007 International 
Conference on Parallel Processing, IEEE Computer 
Society, XiAn, China, September 10-14, 2007. 
[4.] Jie Yin, Qiang Yang and Lionel M. Ni “Learning 
Adaptive Temporal Radio Maps for Signal-Strength- 
Based Location Estimation”, IEEE TRANSACTIONS 
ON MOBILE COMPUTING, VOL. 7, NO. 7, JULY 
2008 
[5.] Guang-yao Jin and Xiao-yi Lu, “An Indoor Localization 
Mechanism Using Active RFID Tag”, IEEE International 
Conference on Sensor Networks, Ubiquitous, and 
Trustworthy Computing, Seoul, Korea, vol. 1, pp.40 – 43, 
June. 05-07, 2006. 
  
practical instruction functions.  
The comparisons of the above methods are shown in Table I. 
Although the direct method is easy to use, the main 
disadvantage is the accuracy of remote control. The 
disadvantage of the gesture and pattern methods is the higher 
rate of misjudgment, and thus, relatively low operational 
efficiency. The multi-button method requires specially designed 
hardware that may incur a high cost, and the button transmission 
distance may be limited by RF, Bluetooth, or infrared receiver. 
Compared with other methods, the “modified direct method” 
proposed in this paper will allow users to accurately target an 
object at a remote distance, and it can effectively implement 
accurate instructions.  
 
TABLE I 
COMPARISON OF OPERATING MODE 
 Click /double-click /drag  
Direct method 
Advantage : quick response at short distance 
Disadvantage: lower accuracy when operating from a 
distance 
Gesture method 
Advantage : easy to use  
Disadvantage : higher rate of misjudgment of gestures 
Pattern method 
Advantage : easy to use  
Disadvantage: too big or small patterns may lead to 
misjudgments 
Multi-button 
method 
Advantage : direct use of button is more intuitive 
Disadvantage: requires specialty, high priced equipment 
Modified direct 
method 
Advantage: able to rapidly and accurately simulate mouse 
functions at a long distance 
Disadvantage :requires short term learning 
III. SYSTEM FUNCTIONALITY 
The laser pointer can be broadly divided into two types, 
according to functionality: 1) simple laser pointer with only a 
laser switch; 2) laser pointer with presentation function has two 
more buttons, [Previous Page] and [Next Page]. In addition, 
there are some presentation devices with laser features that 
provide more buttons to support functionality similar to a 
mouse; however, such devices are expensive. The idea of this 
system is to provide a more popular and less expensive laser 
pointer system that realizes remote control with more intuitive 
modes of operation, thus providing convenience for teaching 
and presentation. This system also provides different functions 
supporting single-button and three-button laser pointers.  
When using this system, users can conveniently and remotely 
control the mouse, and move freely to facilitate interaction with 
the audience when making presentations. According to the 
functions of the laser pointer (single-button or three-button) and 
user requirements (mouse mode or presentation mode), this 
system provides four modes for users: single-button mouse 
mode (M-mode), single-button presentation mode (P-mode), 
three-button mouse mode, and three-button presentation mode. 
The system functionality is shown in Table II.  
The single-button mode is designed for laser pointers with 
only the laser irradiation function, as most users may only have 
the simple function laser pointer. The mode can be further 
divided into the mouse mode and the presentation mode. The 
mouse mode simulates mouse functionality, while presentation 
mode is specifically for making presentations. There are some 
different functions in each mode. The single-button mouse 
mode has functions, such as “move, click, double-click, drag 
and drop”. When switching functions, the user may move the 
spot light to the menu to switch modes.   
 
TABLE II 
SYSTEM FUNCTIONALITY  
        Mode of operation  
Type of  
Laser pointer    
Mouse mode 
(M-mode) 
Presentation mode 
(P-mode ) 
Single-button 
laser pointer 
Move, 
click, 
double-click,  
drag and drop 
Move, 
click, 
write 
Three-button 
laser pointer 
Move, 
click, 
double-click,  
drag and drop 
Move, 
click, 
write, 
changing pages 
 
The function of “move,” moves the mouse without a click. 
The function of “click” is the same as the click of the mouse left 
button. The remote operation of the “click” function may cause 
some inconveniences as it is not easy for users to select an 
object at a distance when the laser pointer is turned on. It is very 
likely to click an undesired object and result in unwanted 
disruptions. Therefore, this system proposes a solution: when 
the laser spot light appears, users may move the mouse without a 
click; when the mouse is moved to the desired object, then users 
may switch on the laser pointer to allow the system to execute 
the single click.  
The principle of double-click is similar to that of single click. 
To execute “drag and drop”, users can move the laser spot light 
to the object to be dragged, release, and then press the button to 
drag the object the desired place. In the single-button mouse 
mode, users may timely switch the functions of click, drag and 
drop, or draft freely in Microsoft Paint. This mode is also fully 
supported in the three-button mode.  
The single-button presentation mode has functions, such as 
“move, click, and write”. When making a presentation, users 
may make more detailed explanations on a given page of the 
projected document. At this time, only the function of “move” is 
required. Execution of the function of “click” in projection will 
execute the order of “next page”. Before the execution of 
“write”, users must execute the click function to select marker or 
light pen provided by PowerPoint, and then switch to the 
function of “write” to use a function similar to the drag of the 
single-button mouse mode for writing in a projection.  
The three-button mode is specifically designed for laser 
pointers with the feature of changing pages. The laser pointer 
with the feature of changing pages has two buttons, [Previous 
Page] and [Next Page], in addition to the regular functions of 
the laser pointer. This system uses these two buttons to simulate 
the left and right buttons of the mouse. The button of [Previous 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 67 2010
69
  
0
303
101
0
303
101
yf
hyyye
gyyyd
xc
hxxxb
gxxxa
=
+−=
+−=
=
+−=
+−=
   
21
21
1
1
21
21
2
2
/
/
yy
xx
yy
xx
h
yy
xx
yy
xx
g
∆∆
∆∆
∑∆
∑∆
=
∆∆
∆∆
∆∑
∆∑
=
    
3210
3210
232211
232211
yyyyy
xxxxx
yyyyyy
xxxxxx
−+−=∑
−+−=∑
−=∆−=∆
−=∆−=∆
 
Finally, input u, v into the following equation:  




















−−−=










1100
27681024
001024
v
u
W
YW
XW
 
From the above equation:  
( )27681024,1024),( −−−= vuuYX  
Then the ultimate coordinates X, Y can be obtained. Figure 2 
shows the correction conversion.  
 
Figure 2: Illustration of coordinate correction 
 
C.  Command judgment 
The commands of mouse include “move, click, double-click, 
and drag”. To switch functions, users only need to move the 
mouse to items of the function list without clicking, because the 
most basic function of the laser pointer is to move. If the “move” 
function is switched, no click is allowed, therefore, the 
command function switching of this system is achieved by 
“move” rather than “click”.  
The “move” function moves along with the laser pointer spot 
light when it is switched on. When laser pointer light spot is off, 
the mouse does not move. For all the functions of this system, 
the mouse can be moved when the laser pointer spot light is on. 
The function of single click moves to the object to be single 
clicked, when the light spot is on, and executes the single click 
function when the light spot is off. The principle of double-click 
is the same: execute double-click when the light spot is off.   
The command of drag is divided into two stages: 1) select the 
object; and 2) drag the object. When the light spot is on, the 
light spot is moved to the object to be dragged, and the object is 
single clicked, when the light spot is off. When the light spot is 
on once again, it is the time to drag the object to the desired 
location, and then the laser pointer button is released to 
complete dragging. The mouse_event time sequence analysis is 
shown in Figure 3.  
 
Figure 3: Illustration of mouse_event analysis  
 
D.  Command output 
After coordinate correction, the original projection images 
can be converted into 1024*768 coordinates. This system uses 
the mouse_event function of Win32 to simulate the mouse into 
the correct coordinates. In this way, in vision, the laser pointer 
spot light and mouse are at the same position on the projection 
screen. Mouse_event function is simulated to make commands 
such as “move, single-click, double-click, and drag”. Thus, the 
mouse coordinates and commands can be fully simulated.  
V. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Illustration of proposed system  
 
The operating environment of this system is Window XP. 
Users should first select the laser pointer type (single-button or 
three-button laser pointer). Figure 4 shows the configuration of 
this system. The video camera may be located anyplace, as long 
as the entire projector screen can be captured. In the beginning 
of operation, some adjustments of video camera options should 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 67 2010
71
  
[13] Paul Heckbert, “Fundamentals of Texture Mapping and Image Warping”, 
M.S. thesis, Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, U.C. 
Berkeley, USA, 1989. 
 
Dr. Ching-Sheng Wang is an associate professor in the Department of 
Computer Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, 
Taiwan. His main research interests include image processing, virtual reality, 
3D human computer interface, content-based information retrieval and RFID 
positioning. He received his Ph. D. degree in the Department of Computer 
Science and Information Engineering from Tamkang University, Taiwan in 
2001. Dr. Ching-Sheng Wang has published over 50 papers in international 
journals and conferences, and earned several research awards and grants, as 
well as participated in many international academic activities. 
Lun-Ping Hung is an associate professor in the Department of Information 
Management Department at National Taipei College of Nursing, Taiwan. He 
earned his Ph.D. at Tamkang University in Taiwan. His research interests 
include quantitative analysis of distance learning courses, the discovery of 
customer behavior analysis in mobile commerce and the recommendation 
technologies for customer relationship management.  
Mr. Sheng-Yu Peng, was an undergraduate student in the Department of 
Computer Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, 
Taiwan.  Now, he is a master student in the Department of Computer Science 
and Information Engineering at Tamkang University, Taiwan. His research 
topic is image processing. 
Mr. Li-Chieh Cheng is an undergraduate student in the Department of 
Computer Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, 
Taiwan. His research topic is image processing and RFID positioning. 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 67 2010
73
between the sending end and the receiving end according to the 
signal strength.  
   L. Ni et al. proposed another well-known active RFID 
positioning system, LANDMARK [2]. It is based on the 
algorithm for converting received signal strength indication 
into distance used by J. Hightower et al. in the SpotON system. 
The LANDMARK system adds a Reference Tag in its location 
environment to help positioning and resolving obstacles in the 
environment, and uses K-nearest neighbor algorithm to screen 
the reference point and improve the execution efficiency. 
Appling the active RFID to positioning systems was proven to 
be feasible, but some problems were yet to be solved, such as 
unstable performance of Tag in signal strength, and the RSSI 
values of the time were simply separated by 8 levels. Thus, 
using only the signal strength value for location seemed to be 
deficient.  
Y. Zhao et al. proposed another positioning system, VIRE [3], 
which incorporates the concept of Reference Tag as in 
LANDMARK. VIRE carries out linear interpolation according 
to signal strength by using the concept of four solid Tags 
enclosing a Grid, the Grid is cut into N x N Virtual Grids. Thus, 
the concept of Virtual Reference Tag is incorporated in 
positioning assistance. VIRE requires lower cost, and improves 
the resistance to environmental noise. More accurate 
positioning value than LANDMARK can be obtained after the 
specific threshold filtering procedure.  
The LEASE positioning system proposed by P. Krishnan et 
al. included reference point in the system, and compared the 
changes in RSS value for positioning [4]. Jin et al. added the 
screening mechanism of Reference Tag in the LANDMARK 
system to improve the positioning effect [5]. Shih determined 
the distance weight based on the signal strength in the system, 
and displayed the position of the object through triangulation 
method [6]. Yang used two-phase cluster algorithm to solve the 
problem in identifying Reference Tag [7]. Jian used TOA–AOA 
location algorithm to determine the time difference of received 
RFID signal and the incidence of signal, so as to improve the 
positioning accuracy [8].  
Many new active RFID positioning systems have been 
proposed in recent years. Jiang et al. published an article on 
LANDMARK system in 2009 [9], which suggests to conduct 
re-positioning by exchanging the Reference Tag with the 
closest Tracking Tag after the first positioning by the 
LANDMARK system. The results showed an improvement of 
the positioning accuracy. Huang et al. also used the concept of 
LANDMARK, but changed the corner positioning of 
LANDMARK system to triangulation method, so as to improve 
the positioning accuracy [10]. Other studies also proposed 
different methods. For example, Chang et al. combined 
ultrasonic to assist in positioning, so as to reduce the error 
values of location [11].  
Based on the above, the main cause for positioning system 
errors is instable RSSI of Tag signal, and it is likely to be 
interfered by environmental factors. Thus, using only signal 
strength for location often results in large errors in location 
[1-12]. Therefore, this paper did not use the signal strength 
value for positioning directly. Since the signal strength of Tag 
would decrease as the distance increased, and considering the 
differences of environment and Tag, it first classified signal 
levels for different Tags at multiple distances, and then used the 
matrix formed by these signal levels and the fault-tolerance 
mechanism for accurate and stable positioning. 
III. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
            
Figure 1: Schematic diagram of positioning mode  
Figure 1 is the schematic diagram of the positioning mode 
proposed by this paper. The active tags are set in the 
localization environment equally in intervals of 2m at upper, 
lower, left and right side. The suitable signal strength threshold 
for specific Tag is analyzed and stored in the database. When 
users move in the indoor space with mobile device combined 
with RFID Reader, the positioning system compares the 
received Tag signal values with the positioning data in the 
database timely, in order to determine the location of the users.
The positioning process of this system is shown in Figure 2. 
First, the localization environment is arranged before 
positioning, and the signal strength reference values of specific 
Tag at different distances are analyzed and set. Then, the SLM 
of all sensing areas are set up and stored in the database 
according to the signal strength reference values. During 
real-time positioning, the Reader converts the received signal 
level into SLM timely, and searches the database for identical 
SLM. If an identical SLM is found, the corresponding sensing 
area is displayed directly to finish positioning; if no identical 
SLM is found, the fault-tolerance mechanism is used for 
searching similar SLM to complete positioning; if no similar 
SLM is found, the system returns to the step of analyzing 
signals for re-collection of signals and repositioning.  
As compared with other RFID positioning systems, this 
system only requires one RFID Reader and several Tags to 
complete positioning, and it can reduce the construction cost of 
positioning system effectively. Furthermore, in the proposed 
positioning method, the user carries a RFID Reader, which 
allows the system administrator to know about the user's 
location, and the user can know his location timely. Thus, this 
system can indicate the position of the user timely, and can be 
applied in guides of exhibition halls, museums, airports or 
campuses.  
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 69 2010
44
B. SIGNAL LEVEL MATRIX
Based on the sensing overlap area and the classification of 
signal level, this paper proposed the concept of Signal Level 
Matrix (SLM). First, the signal strength is classified into six 
levels according to the distance between Reader and Tag (as 
shown in Table 1), and then the Signal Level Matrix of the area 
of Reader is set up according to the signal levels of the Tags 
around the Reader.  
For example, taking the area shown in Figure 3 as an 
example, the type 1 Signal Level Matrix is set up 
corresponding to the type 1 blocks of Tag22, the main 
characteristic is that it senses Tag22's signal level S22 = L0 (as 
example shown in Figure 4). Eight kinds of type 2 Signal 
Level Matrixes are set up corresponding to the type 2 areas 
within 1 meter around Tag22: A22U, A22D, A22L, A22R, 
A22UL, A22UR, A22DL and A22DR as examples shown in 
Figure 5. The main characteristic is that it senses Tag22's 
signal level S22 = L1, and some other signal's level equals to 
L2, so as to distinguish the direction of signal levels.  
Table 1: Signal level table 
Figure 4: Example of Type 1 Signal Level Matrix (SLM of A22) 
(a) A22U’s SLM 
(b) A22UL’s SLM 
Figure 5: Examples of Type 2 Signal Level Matrix 
In the third situation, if the distance between Reader and all 
Tags is over 1 meter, namely, it is just located among 4 Tags 
(e.g. 4 blocks in Figure 6: A22DRX, A23DLX, A32URX and 
A33ULX), the corresponding Signal Level Matrix can be 
constructed based on the signal strength of peripheral 16 Tags, 
as examples shown in Figure 6. The main characteristic is that 
the four adjacent signal levels are L2; and the level of another 
two signals equals to L3, the level of the signal on the cross 
equals to L5. In addition, if the user is just located in the small 
block between A22DR and A22DRX, the final location will be 
determined by T33's signal strength S33 which may be Level 2 
or Level 3.  
(a) A32URX’s SLM 
(b) A33ULX’s SLM 
Figure 6: Examples of Type 3 Signal Level Matrix 
C. FAULT-TOLERANCE MECHANISM
Since the signal strength of Tag often fluctuates within a 
range, the signal strength of adjacent position may fluctuate 
between adjacent signal levels, and then cause errors in 
location. The proposed fault-tolerance mechanism can solve 
this problem. For example, taking the first situation in Figure 7 
as an example, a normal Signal Level Matrix should be as that 
shown in Figure 4, but the fluctuation of signal strength may 
result in non-standard Signal Level Matrix as example shown 
in Figure 7 (a). In this case, as proved by experimental 
experience, since the Reader is very close to Tag22, the signal 
strength of L0 is very stable, so it still can be located at A22 
successfully.  
Taking A22U of the second situation as an example, a 
normal Signal Level Matrix should be as that shown in Figure 
5 (a), but the fluctuation of signal strength may result in 
non-standard Signal Level Matrix as shown in Figure 7 (b). If 
this circumstance happens, although mismatching the standard 
SLM, the position still can be determined according to the 
directionality of signal strength in SLM, and located in the 
area of A22U correctly. Similarly, if a non-standard SLM as 
shown in Figure 7(c) occurs, it can also be located in the area 
of A22UL. In addition, if a non-standard SLM as examples 
shown in Figure 7 (d) and (e) occurs, it can also be located in 
the area of A32URX and A33ULX correctly according to the 
orientation of L5 signal.  
An active RFID CF card Reader with frequency of 2.45GHz 
and 16 active RFID Tags were used in the experiment for 
testing. When proper signal strength thresholds for specific 
Tags were analyzed, the sensing areas of all RFID Tags would 
form the sensing overlap areas, as shown in Figure 3.  
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 69 2010
46
Figure 10: Schematic diagram of sensing areas 
VI. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we propose the concept of Signal Level 
Matrix (SLM) to develop an active RFID positioning system 
to achieve efficient deployment mode, low cost and high 
accuracy. Based on the characteristic of the signal strength of 
RFID attenuating as the distance increases, this paper first 
classified proper signal levels at different distances and carried 
out indoor localization according to the matrix formed by 
these signal levels. The experimental results indicate that the 
proposed method can adjust the suitable signal strength 
threshold adaptively according to the differences of the 
localization environment and specific Tags. Combined with 
fault-tolerant mechanism, the method can improve the 
positioning accuracy and the stability effectively. 
In addition, this system uses uniform and efficient 
distribution mode, while requiring only one RFID Reader and 
some Tags to complete positioning, thus reducing the cost of 
positioning system effectively. Furthermore, as compared with 
other positioning system, because of the users carry one RFID 
Reader, which allows the system administrator to know about 
the user's location, and the user can know his location, too. 
Thus, this system can indicate the position of the user timely, 
and can be applied in guides of exhibition halls, museums, 
airports or campuses. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The author would like to thank the National Science 
Council of the Republic of China, Taiwan for financially 
supporting this research under Contract No. 
NSC-98-2221-E-156-007 and NSC-99-2221-E-156-004. 
Besides, the authors would like to acknowledge Li-Chieh 
Cheng and Chun-Chih Chen for their assistance in making this 
system possible. 
REFERENCE
[1]       Jeffrey Hightower and Gaetano Borriello, ȸSpotON: An Indoor 3D 
Location Sensing Technology Based on RF Signal Strengthȹ,
Proceedings of the UW CSE Technical Report, #2000-02-02, February 
18, 2000, pp.1ȉ16. 
[2]       Ni, L.M., Liu, Y. and Patil, A.P. (2003) ȸLANDMARC: indoor 
location sensing using active RFIDȹ, Proceedings of the First IEEE 
International Conference on Pervasive Computing and 
Communications (PerComȷ03), Fort Worth, Texas, pp.407ȉ415. 
[3]       Yiyang Zhao, Yunhao Liu, and Lionel M. Ni, ȸVIRE: Active 
RFID-based Localization Using Virtual Reference Eliminationȹ,
Proceedings of the 2007 International Conference on Parallel 
Processing, IEEE Computer Society, XiAn, China, September, pp. 
10-14.
[4]       P. Krishnan, A.S. Krishnakumar, W.H. Ju, C. Mallows, and S. Ganu, 
ȸA System for LEASE: Location Estimation Assisted by Stationary 
Emitters for Indoor RF Wireless Networksȹ, Proceedings of IEEE 
INFOCOM 2004, Mar. 2004, pp. 1001-1011. 
[5]       Jin, G-Y., Lu, X-Y. and Park, M-S. (2006) ȸAn indoor localization 
mechanism using active RFID tagȹ, Proceedings of the IEEE 
International Conference on Sensor Networks, Ubiquitous, and 
Trustworthy Computing (SUTCȷ06), Taichung, Taiwan ,Vol. 1, 
pp.40ȉ43. 
[6]       ˦˻˼˻ʿʳ S-T., Hsieh, K. and Chen, P-Y. (2006) ȸAn improvement 
approach of indoor location sensing using active RFIDȹ, Proceedings 
of the First International Conference on Innovative Computing, 
Information and Control (ICICICȷ06), Vol. 2, pp.453ȉ456. 
[7]       Chih-Chao Yang, ȸA RFID-Based Location Sensing Mechanismȹ,
Institute of Information Management, National Chiao Tung University, 
Thesis, June 2005. 
[8]       Zong-Wei Jian, ȸ Indoor Positioning Algorithm for RFID Systemȹ,
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, National 
Taiwan Ocean University, Thesis, June 2005. 
[9]       Xuejing Jiang,Ye Liu, Xiaolei Wang ,ȸEhanced Approach of Indoor 
Location Sensing Using Active RFIDȹ, Proceedings of DOI 
10.1109/ICIE. vol. 1, pp.169-172.
[10]  Huang Yihua, Lv Shilei, Liu Zongyuan, Jun Wang, Jun Shi ,ȸ The 
Topology Analysis of Reference Tags of RFID Indoor Location 
Systemȹ, Proceedings of the 2009 3rd IEEE International Conference 
on Digital Ecosystems and Technologies Turkey, 1ȉ3 June, 
pp.313ȉ317. 
[11]  Chai-Hao ChangǵWei-Cheng Lin , ȸThe Research of Active RFID 
with Ultrasound for Positioning and Path Planningȹ, I-SHOU 
University M.S. Thesis , 2009. 
[12]  Ching-Sheng Wang, Chun-Hong Huang, Yong-Si Chen, and Li-Jie 
Zheng,ȸ An Implementation of Positioning System in Indoor 
Environment based on Active RFIDȹ, The Second IEEE International 
Conference on Ubi-media Computing, Taipei, Taiwan, Dec. 2009., pp. 
1-6. 
[13]  Cêsar Benavente-Peces, Vîctor Manuel Moracho-Oliva, Alfonso 
Domînguez-Garcîa,Manuel Lugilde-Rodrîguez, ȸGlobal System 
for Location and Guidance of Disabled People: indoor and outdoor 
technologies integration: indoor and outdoor technologies 
integrationȹ, Proceedings of the IEEE 802.11p1609 Networks, 
pp.370 - 375.
[14]  Kun-Ming Yu, Ming-Gong Lee, Chien-Tung Liao, Hung-Jui Lin, 
ȸ Design and Implementation of a RFID Based Real-Time 
Location-aware System in Clean Roomȹ, Proceedings of the 2009 
IEEEDOI 10.1109/ISPA pp.382 ȉ 388. 
Dr. Ching-Sheng Wang is an associate professor in the Department of 
Computer Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, 
Taiwan. His main research interests include RFID positioning, virtual reality, 
3D human computer interface, content-based information retrieval and image 
processing. He received his Ph. D. degree in the Department of Computer 
Science and Information Engineering from Tamkang University, Taiwan in 
2001. Dr. Ching-Sheng Wang has published over 50 papers in international 
journals and conferences, and earned several research awards and grants, as 
well as participated in many international academic activities. 
Dr. Xin-Mao Huang received his MS. and Ph. D degree in Electrical 
Engineering department of National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, 
R.O.C., in 1998 and 2005. Currently, he is an assistant professor in Computer 
Science and Information Engineering Department in Aletheia University. His 
research interests include data mining, distributed system, and multimedia 
applications. 
Mr. Ming-Yu Hung is a master student in the Department of Computer 
Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, Taiwan. His 
research topic is RFID positioning. 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 69 2010
48
 2
K
 Systems Engineering  
 Network Technology  
 Communication Technology  
 Other Advanced Technology 
 Computer Education for Graduates  
 Computer Education for Undergraduates  
 Distance Education for Computers  
 Life-long education  
 Computer Education for Particular Group  
 Other Computer Education 
 Active learning 
 Faculty development 
 Innovative pedagogies 
 Learning models  
 Service learning 
本次參加之學術會議是由 IACSIT 及 IEEE 合辦，除 ICTEC-2010 外，同時還有二
個國際會議一起舉行： The 2010 International Conference on Information and 
Network Technology (ICINT-2010)，及 The 2010 International Conference on 
Information and Electronics Engineering (ICIEE-2010)，而且只需在其中一個
會議註冊，即可自由參加其他會議的議程。 
二、與會心得 
會議中第一位 eynote Speaker為臺灣知名學者 張真誠教授 ，演講題目
為”Information Hiding Scheme Using Sudoku(數獨)”， 演講內容非常精彩，同樣
來自臺灣的我倍感親切與光榮。其他二位Keynote Speaker 分別為來自美國
Illinois State University的Prof. Anu Gokhale，及香港中文大學之Prof. Jun 
Wang，演講內容亦很豐富，本人收穫良多。 
則
此次三個會議中，共發表了三百多篇的論文，研究成果可謂相當豐富，本人亦
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期： 99 年 7 月 26 日 
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－156－007 
計畫名稱 支援定位與推薦功能的同儕式虛擬導覽系統之研究 
出國人員
姓名 王慶生 
服務機構
及職稱 真理大學資訊工程學系 專任副教授 
會議時間 99年 7月 14日至 99 年 7 月 16 日 會議地點 印尼，巴里島 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2010 電腦視覺、影像及訊號處理國際學術研討會 
(英文) 2010 International Conference on Computer Vision, Image and 
Signal Processing (ICCVISP 2010) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 一套整合滑鼠功能之雷射光筆互動系統 
(英文) A Laser Point Interaction System Integrating Mouse Functions 
一、參加會議經過 
本次參加之學術會議 2010 International Conference on Computer Vision, 
Image and Signal Processing (ICCVISP 2010)是由WASET (World Academy of Science, 
Engineering and Technology)所主辦，屬於 EI 等級之會議論文。會議舉行地點在
印尼巴里島 KUTA 區的之 Mercure 飯店，議程共計三天( JULY, 14–16 ), 與會者逾
百人。此次的會議主要議題包括: 
 Computer Vision, Graphics and Intelligence  
 Computational and Artificial Intelligence 
 Computer Vision 
 Pattern Analysis and Recognition 
 Computer Graphics and Virtual Reality 
 Human-Computer Interaction 
 Simulation and Modeling 
 4
 6
待在電腦旁，而直接使用雷射光筆遠距離操作電腦，有效地改善了待在電腦旁及走
回電腦旁的時間浪費，並可進一步增進與聽眾之間的互動。 
在這次的會議中，世界各地的學者在研討會中共發表了逾百篇的研究論文及成
果，會議內容相當豐富，本人與與會的學者充分的討論本人及他人之論文，獲益良
多。此外；會中有學者對本論文的成果非常肯定，並表示有興趣購買本論文所發表
之簡報系統，本人亦深感鼓舞。此次有賴國科會補助機票費、生活費及註冊費，才
得以順利參加在印尼巴里島所舉行之國際學術會議，受益匪淺、深表感謝。 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 與會證書 
 註冊費收據 
 研討會論文集光碟 
 
附錄(於 ICCVISP -2010 發表之論文)： 
(1) Ching-Sheng Wang, Lun-Ping Hung, Sheng-Yu Peng, and Li-Chieh Cheng, “A Laser Point Interaction 
System Integrating Mouse Functions”, 2010 International Conference on Computer Vision, Image and 
Signal Processing (ICCVISP-2010), Indonesia, Bali, July. 2010. (EI) (NSC98-2221-E-156 -007) 
 
  
practical instruction functions.  
The comparisons of the above methods are shown in Table I. 
Although the direct method is easy to use, the main 
disadvantage is the accuracy of remote control. The 
disadvantage of the gesture and pattern methods is the higher 
rate of misjudgment, and thus, relatively low operational 
efficiency. The multi-button method requires specially designed 
hardware that may incur a high cost, and the button transmission 
distance may be limited by RF, Bluetooth, or infrared receiver. 
Compared with other methods, the “modified direct method” 
proposed in this paper will allow users to accurately target an 
object at a remote distance, and it can effectively implement 
accurate instructions.  
 
TABLE I 
COMPARISON OF OPERATING MODE 
 Click /double-click /drag  
Direct method 
Advantage : quick response at short distance 
Disadvantage: lower accuracy when operating from a 
distance 
Gesture method 
Advantage : easy to use  
Disadvantage : higher rate of misjudgment of gestures 
Pattern method 
Advantage : easy to use  
Disadvantage: too big or small patterns may lead to 
misjudgments 
Multi-button 
method 
Advantage : direct use of button is more intuitive 
Disadvantage: requires specialty, high priced equipment 
Modified direct 
method 
Advantage: able to rapidly and accurately simulate mouse 
functions at a long distance 
Disadvantage :requires short term learning 
III. SYSTEM FUNCTIONALITY 
The laser pointer can be broadly divided into two types, 
according to functionality: 1) simple laser pointer with only a 
laser switch; 2) laser pointer with presentation function has two 
more buttons, [Previous Page] and [Next Page]. In addition, 
there are some presentation devices with laser features that 
provide more buttons to support functionality similar to a 
mouse; however, such devices are expensive. The idea of this 
system is to provide a more popular and less expensive laser 
pointer system that realizes remote control with more intuitive 
modes of operation, thus providing convenience for teaching 
and presentation. This system also provides different functions 
supporting single-button and three-button laser pointers.  
When using this system, users can conveniently and remotely 
control the mouse, and move freely to facilitate interaction with 
the audience when making presentations. According to the 
functions of the laser pointer (single-button or three-button) and 
user requirements (mouse mode or presentation mode), this 
system provides four modes for users: single-button mouse 
mode (M-mode), single-button presentation mode (P-mode), 
three-button mouse mode, and three-button presentation mode. 
The system functionality is shown in Table II.  
The single-button mode is designed for laser pointers with 
only the laser irradiation function, as most users may only have 
the simple function laser pointer. The mode can be further 
divided into the mouse mode and the presentation mode. The 
mouse mode simulates mouse functionality, while presentation 
mode is specifically for making presentations. There are some 
different functions in each mode. The single-button mouse 
mode has functions, such as “move, click, double-click, drag 
and drop”. When switching functions, the user may move the 
spot light to the menu to switch modes.   
 
TABLE II 
SYSTEM FUNCTIONALITY  
        Mode of operation  
Type of  
Laser pointer    
Mouse mode 
(M-mode) 
Presentation mode 
(P-mode ) 
Single-button 
laser pointer 
Move, 
click, 
double-click,  
drag and drop 
Move, 
click, 
write 
Three-button 
laser pointer 
Move, 
click, 
double-click,  
drag and drop 
Move, 
click, 
write, 
changing pages 
 
The function of “move,” moves the mouse without a click. 
The function of “click” is the same as the click of the mouse left 
button. The remote operation of the “click” function may cause 
some inconveniences as it is not easy for users to select an 
object at a distance when the laser pointer is turned on. It is very 
likely to click an undesired object and result in unwanted 
disruptions. Therefore, this system proposes a solution: when 
the laser spot light appears, users may move the mouse without a 
click; when the mouse is moved to the desired object, then users 
may switch on the laser pointer to allow the system to execute 
the single click.  
The principle of double-click is similar to that of single click. 
To execute “drag and drop”, users can move the laser spot light 
to the object to be dragged, release, and then press the button to 
drag the object the desired place. In the single-button mouse 
mode, users may timely switch the functions of click, drag and 
drop, or draft freely in Microsoft Paint. This mode is also fully 
supported in the three-button mode.  
The single-button presentation mode has functions, such as 
“move, click, and write”. When making a presentation, users 
may make more detailed explanations on a given page of the 
projected document. At this time, only the function of “move” is 
required. Execution of the function of “click” in projection will 
execute the order of “next page”. Before the execution of 
“write”, users must execute the click function to select marker or 
light pen provided by PowerPoint, and then switch to the 
function of “write” to use a function similar to the drag of the 
single-button mouse mode for writing in a projection.  
The three-button mode is specifically designed for laser 
pointers with the feature of changing pages. The laser pointer 
with the feature of changing pages has two buttons, [Previous 
Page] and [Next Page], in addition to the regular functions of 
the laser pointer. This system uses these two buttons to simulate 
the left and right buttons of the mouse. The button of [Previous 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 67 2010
69
  
0
303
101
0
303
101
yf
hyyye
gyyyd
xc
hxxxb
gxxxa
=
+−=
+−=
=
+−=
+−=
   
21
21
1
1
21
21
2
2
/
/
yy
xx
yy
xx
h
yy
xx
yy
xx
g
∆∆
∆∆
∑∆
∑∆
=
∆∆
∆∆
∆∑
∆∑
=
    
3210
3210
232211
232211
yyyyy
xxxxx
yyyyyy
xxxxxx
−+−=∑
−+−=∑
−=∆−=∆
−=∆−=∆
 
Finally, input u, v into the following equation:  




















−−−=










1100
27681024
001024
v
u
W
YW
XW
 
From the above equation:  
( )27681024,1024),( −−−= vuuYX  
Then the ultimate coordinates X, Y can be obtained. Figure 2 
shows the correction conversion.  
 
Figure 2: Illustration of coordinate correction 
 
C.  Command judgment 
The commands of mouse include “move, click, double-click, 
and drag”. To switch functions, users only need to move the 
mouse to items of the function list without clicking, because the 
most basic function of the laser pointer is to move. If the “move” 
function is switched, no click is allowed, therefore, the 
command function switching of this system is achieved by 
“move” rather than “click”.  
The “move” function moves along with the laser pointer spot 
light when it is switched on. When laser pointer light spot is off, 
the mouse does not move. For all the functions of this system, 
the mouse can be moved when the laser pointer spot light is on. 
The function of single click moves to the object to be single 
clicked, when the light spot is on, and executes the single click 
function when the light spot is off. The principle of double-click 
is the same: execute double-click when the light spot is off.   
The command of drag is divided into two stages: 1) select the 
object; and 2) drag the object. When the light spot is on, the 
light spot is moved to the object to be dragged, and the object is 
single clicked, when the light spot is off. When the light spot is 
on once again, it is the time to drag the object to the desired 
location, and then the laser pointer button is released to 
complete dragging. The mouse_event time sequence analysis is 
shown in Figure 3.  
 
Figure 3: Illustration of mouse_event analysis  
 
D.  Command output 
After coordinate correction, the original projection images 
can be converted into 1024*768 coordinates. This system uses 
the mouse_event function of Win32 to simulate the mouse into 
the correct coordinates. In this way, in vision, the laser pointer 
spot light and mouse are at the same position on the projection 
screen. Mouse_event function is simulated to make commands 
such as “move, single-click, double-click, and drag”. Thus, the 
mouse coordinates and commands can be fully simulated.  
V. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Illustration of proposed system  
 
The operating environment of this system is Window XP. 
Users should first select the laser pointer type (single-button or 
three-button laser pointer). Figure 4 shows the configuration of 
this system. The video camera may be located anyplace, as long 
as the entire projector screen can be captured. In the beginning 
of operation, some adjustments of video camera options should 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 67 2010
71
  
[13] Paul Heckbert, “Fundamentals of Texture Mapping and Image Warping”, 
M.S. thesis, Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, U.C. 
Berkeley, USA, 1989. 
 
Dr. Ching-Sheng Wang is an associate professor in the Department of 
Computer Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, 
Taiwan. His main research interests include image processing, virtual reality, 
3D human computer interface, content-based information retrieval and RFID 
positioning. He received his Ph. D. degree in the Department of Computer 
Science and Information Engineering from Tamkang University, Taiwan in 
2001. Dr. Ching-Sheng Wang has published over 50 papers in international 
journals and conferences, and earned several research awards and grants, as 
well as participated in many international academic activities. 
Lun-Ping Hung is an associate professor in the Department of Information 
Management Department at National Taipei College of Nursing, Taiwan. He 
earned his Ph.D. at Tamkang University in Taiwan. His research interests 
include quantitative analysis of distance learning courses, the discovery of 
customer behavior analysis in mobile commerce and the recommendation 
technologies for customer relationship management.  
Mr. Sheng-Yu Peng, was an undergraduate student in the Department of 
Computer Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, 
Taiwan.  Now, he is a master student in the Department of Computer Science 
and Information Engineering at Tamkang University, Taiwan. His research 
topic is image processing. 
Mr. Li-Chieh Cheng is an undergraduate student in the Department of 
Computer Science and Information Engineering at Aletheia University, 
Taiwan. His research topic is image processing and RFID positioning. 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 67 2010
73
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王慶生 計畫編號：98-2221-E-156-007- 
計畫名稱：支援定位與推薦功能的同儕式虛擬導覽系統之研究 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位
備註（質化說明：如數
個計畫共同成果、成果
列為該期刊之封面故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 0 100% 
人次
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 0 85% 
篇 其中一篇研討會論文之部
分經費來源為 99年國科會
計 畫
(NSC-99-2221-E-156-004)
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
 
