 
英文摘要： Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is one of the most prevalent adult-
onset neurodegenerative disorders that present a combination of 
parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia and autonomic failure during the 
course of the illness. However, a clinical diagnosis in the early 
phase of the disease remains challenging. In this project, we aim to 
establish a multi-modality image processing platform that integrates 
the diffusion tensor images and T1 weighted images to explore the 
abnormalities of the brain caused by the MSA.  
In this project, 20 MSA patients and 21 healthy subjects matched 
for age and gender were participated. We utilized MR diffusion 
tensor imaging (DTI) to estimate the water diffusion in local tissues 
and used the technique of neural fiber tracking (tractography) by 
home-made image platform to construct the whole-brain fiber 
network which provided us to quantify the properties of the 
network. In addition, in order to investigate atrophy level of MSA 
more deeply, the T1-weighted images were examined and processed 
using the surface-based three-dimensional gyrification index (3D-
GI) method to quantify the morphological changes of cerebellum. In 
addition, the T1-weighted images have been analyzed to assess the 
suitability of the 3D-GI method to characterize and distinguish the 
morphological alteration of atrophied cerebellum. 
This study used structural connectivity to investigate changes of 
cerebellum-cerebral network and used the surface-based 3D-GI 
method to investigate the morphological changes of cerebellum. We 
found obvious atrophy in cerebellum, decrease of fiber bundles 
connect from cerebellum to cerebral and significant decrease in 3D-
GI values for the MSA group. There were significant fiber loss and 
connected area change in the MSA group such as the change in 
somatosensory cortex and motor area. To our knowledge, this is the 
first study to apply the surface-based 3D-GI method to investigate 
changes in cortical folding complexity in the normal and atrophied 
cerebellum. 3D-GI can avoid the intrinsic characteristics of gender 
difference and age-related shrinkage in assessing cerebellar volume 
and atrophy which could be a useful index for assessing cortical 
folding complexity and an appropriate parameter for quantifying 
neuronal cortical degeneration. These methods may also be 
applicable to other neurological or psychiatrical disorders, such as 
Alzheimer’s disease (AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), multiple 
sclerosis (MS), or dementia. 
 
 I 
 
一、中英文摘要： 
（一） 中文摘要。（五百字以內） 
關鍵詞：多系統萎縮症、磁振擴散張量影像、神經纖維追蹤、結構性神經連結網路、三維表面型態腦
迴化指標。 
 
多系統萎縮症（Multiple system atrophy，MSA）是一種在成年發生的神經退化性疾病，此疾病
一旦發生即持續惡化，平均九年後死亡。目前，多系統萎縮症依然仰賴醫師的經驗透過病史和臨床症
狀來判斷，然而其早期診斷之正確率甚低，往往錯過了治療的黃金時期。若能利用多重影像平台，包
含功能性和結構性磁振造影、磁振頻譜和腦電波分析，整合各種面向的資訊，並利用區別分析技術進
行資料的分群與解讀，將有助於建立電腦化之臨床診斷輔助系統。 
本計畫便以此為前提，旨在研究多系統萎縮症病患之磁振影像水分子擴散相關的結構性變異資
訊，基於多系統萎縮症往往涉及不同區域的大腦神經元退化，利用磁振擴散張量影像（DTI）所估算出
之全腦神經纖維網路，將DTI 影像中與各個疾病相關的因子，包含嚴重程度、白質完整性、神經元數
量、纖維網路連結數量與強度，其間的關係整合出來，本計畫更進一步利用新的三維表面型態腦迴化
指標(3D-GI)技術以三維的角度評估小腦萎縮的程度，不只可得到更精準的萎縮分類，也更深入的了解
萎縮程度在年齡與性別上之差異。 
本計畫共收集20位多系統萎縮症病人和21位年紀、性別相仿健康受測者之擴散張量影像與T1權重
影像，並以自建的影像擷取與分析處理平台進行資料分析處理與神經網路連結研究，重建擴散張量影
像重建神經纖維走向，並搭配大腦90區、小腦皮質7區、共97區的分割，依據神經纖維走向計算結構性
網路連結參數，利用神經網路連結理論分析結構性網路連結，搭配三維表面型態腦迴化指標分析小腦
萎縮之程度探討正常人與多系統萎縮症患者的差異。利用三維表面型態腦迴化指標發現，多系統萎縮
症之病人不論是小腦灰質或白質，皆有明顯的三維表面型態腦迴化指標下降，也就是萎縮的情況發生。
而全腦神經網路連結分析發現，不只在小腦有顯著性的萎縮，其小腦連結額葉大腦之神經纖維也有明
顯的缺失，並造成其他區域彌補性的增加連結數量。 
本計畫為第一個將三維表面型態腦迴化指標分析用於小腦腦迴複雜度之研究，並發現三維表面型
態腦迴化指標可以指出細微的萎縮情況，甚至是在多系統萎縮症的早期，就能量化出多系統萎縮症患
者之小腦灰質與小腦白質皆與健康受測者有顯著性之差異，並且不受年齡與性別等內在因素之影響。
而本計畫結合三維表面型態腦迴化指標與全腦神經網路連結分析的整合性分析，不再只是如同過去由
各個面向單獨地去觀察該疾病，而是全面地、相互參照地去探討多系統萎縮症所造成之變異，並將這
樣完整的資訊，以及經由本計畫建立的多影像處理平台，提供給臨床醫師成為提升早期診斷多系統萎
縮症準確率的輔助工具。 
1 
 
二、報告內容： 
Foreword 
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is one of the most prevalent adult-onset neurodegenerative disorders that 
present a combination of parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia and autonomic failure during the course of the illness. 
However, a clinical diagnosis in the early phase of the disease remains challenging. In this study, we used 
multi-modality images platform to resolve the useful features or patterns for the diagnosis of MSA. This 
allowed us to better understanding the progression of MSA and further improve the accuracy of early 
diagnosis. 
 
Objective 
In this project, we utilized MR diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to estimate the water diffusion in local 
tissues. We used the technique of neural fiber tracking (tractography) to construct the whole-brain fiber 
network for the MSA patients and control subjects. In addition, in order to investigate atrophy level of MSA 
more deeply we examined the T1-weighted images. T1-weighted images were processed using the 
surface-based three-dimensional GI (3D-GI) method to quantify the morphological changes of cerebellum. As 
a result, this study used the cerebellum-cerebral network from DTI study with the cerebellum atrophy 
information from T1-weighted study to extract the useful features from the normal and patient data. In 
addition, the T1-weighted images have been analyzed to (i) assess the suitability of the 3D-GI method to 
characterize and distinguish the morphological alteration of atrophied cerebellum in MSA-C patients; and (ii) 
assess whether the 3D-GI method is superior to the volumetric method in quantifying cerebellar atrophy.  
 
Literature research 
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was one of the most commonly used MRI techniques. The method 
detected the diffusion of water molecular in the structure and the surrounding brain tissue. The anisotropy of 
water diffusion could be quantified and provided the predominant direction of water diffusion based on the 
tensor measured in each voxel [1]. Recent study had reported that DTI could investigate the effects of gender 
on healthy adult male and female brain tissue [2][3][4][5]. DTI was also useful to the comparison of the micro 
architecture of brain tissue between healthy subjects and patients [6][7]. The structural connectivity analyzed 
by DTI has been studied, too [8][9]. 
The gyrification index (GI) is a relative measure that changes as a function of the volumetric ratio 
between the outer and inner cortical layers; it provides normative data on gyral folding in humans and 
primates [10][11][12]. The GI values of the human brain generally fall within a stable range with few 
deviations, and are not significantly affected by age, gender, body weight, body length, or brain volume 
differences [11]. Many studies indicate that brains with a higher degree of cortical folding exhibit larger GI 
values, and these values increase proportionally to the number and complexity of gyri [12][13][14][15]. The 
GI is a sensitive and easily accessible tool for quantifying individual changes in cortical specialization [13]. 
Therefore, the GI is the most commonly used method to determine the degree of cortical folding [16][17][18]. 
Recently, neuroscientists and psychiatrists have extensively used the GI method to quantify the shape 
 3 
 
image and tensor image using the DTI-Studio software (Processing Tools and Environment for Diffusion 
Tensor Imaging, Version 2, H. Jiang and S. Mori, Radiology Dept, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD). 
The resultant linear and nonlinear transform matrixes were also applied on tensor image and FA image (see 
Figure 1). 
DTI tractography 
The Fiber Assignment by Continuous Tracking (FACT) (Mori et al., 1999; Mori and van Zijl, 2002; Xue 
et al., 1999) algorithm in the DTI-Studio software was applied on the tensor images. The tracking procedure 
was stopped when a track turning angle greater than 40°and the FA was lower 0.2 (see Figure 1). During 
tracking, the paths of fiber bundles were also recorded. Finally, the fiber bundles area classified based on the 
AAL templates. 
 
Fig 1. Flow chart for registration(A) and normalization(B) reconstruction of tractography (C) for each subject.  
Parcellation 
We applied AAL atlas (see Figure 2(A)) to parcellate the gray matter in cerebrum, where the gray matter 
was segmented out from the FA image with threshold larger than 0.25. The parcellation of gray matter in 
cerebrum for each subject was carried out by mapping the AAL atlas on the gray-matter image. In addition to 
the AAL atlas, we created the cerebellum atlas by merging 26 areas in the AAL atlas to 7 areas (see Figure 
2(B)). In the same manner, the parcellation of gray matter in cerebellum for each subject was carried out by 
mapping the created cerebellum atlas on the gray-matter image. 
(A) (B) 
Fig 2. AAL atlas (A) and Cerebellum atlas(B) in sagittal, coronal, and axial view, respectively.  
Graph theoretical analysis—fiber bundles classification and distribution analysis 
The fiber bundles were classified based on the above parcellation of cerebrum and cerebellum. The fiber 
bundles belonged to the same cluster if their starting points are in the same area A and their ending points are 
 
 
(C) 
 5 
 
surfaceCBWMCBGMhullconvextedreconstrucDofArea
surfaceCBWMCBGMtedreconstrucDofArea
DGI
)(3
)(3
3   
For each reconstructed binary image object, the 3-D convex hull was constructed by filling the local 
concavities in a 5×5×5 neighborhood iteratively. In each iteration, the border voxels (defined as background 
voxels consisting of at least one 6-neighbourhood object voxel) were first identified; thereafter, the number of 
its 18-neighborhood object voxels in the x-, y-, and z-planes were counted, respectively. The criteria for 
verifying whether the current border voxel should be changed from a background voxel to an object voxel was 
that at least one of the three values (x-, y-, and z-planes) had to be greater than four, or one of them had to be 
equal to four with at least one 8-neighbor in the same plane, with a value greater than two. Accordingly, the 
shape of object became more and more convex after certain iterations. The best goodness-of-fit was assessed 
by examining whether the convex hull filled all the concavities.  
After the binarized CBGM and CBWM volumetric images and their convex versions were obtained, their 
surface areas were estimated for 3D-GI calculations. The method proposed by Lindblad was adopted to 
estimate the surface area of the reconstructed 3D CBGM (CBWM) and their convex hull surfaces (Lindblad, 
2003). Finally, the 3D-GI was computed as the ratio of the original reconstructed CBGM (CBWM) surface 
area derived by their reconstructed convex hull surface area. The volumes of 3D CBWM and CBGM were 
also estimated by the total pixel count within the targets, and displayed in cm
3
 units. 
Statistical analyses 
The two-sample t-test was used to assess the gender difference within the data of the normal group, for 
3D-GI values and CBGM and CBWM volumes. The age correlations between 3D-GI values and volumes 
within the normal group were also examined. We used two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to determine if 
there was a significant difference between the 3D-GI values of CBGM and CBWM, in both the normal and 
the patient groups. Further ANOVA was used to test for a possible gender effect, using between-group 
comparisons. 
We also analyzed the between-group statistics for the volumes of CBGM and CBWM, and tested for a 
gender effect using two-way ANOVA. In addition, we calculated the correlation coefficients between the 
3D-GI values and volumetric values in both normal and MSA-C patients. The significance level for all of the 
tests was set at p < 0.05. All the statistics were calculated using the Statistics Toolbox in MATLAB 7.0.  
 
Result and discussion 
Obvious atrophy of cerebellum 
Figure 3 illustrates the reconstructed 3D images of CBGM and CBWM and their convex hull surfaces, 
from a normal subject and a MSA-C patient. The anterior lobe (red arrow in Fig. 3g) of the CBGM in the 
MSA-C patient clearly exhibits substantial atrophy; similarly, the vermis (black arrow in Fig. 3g) of the 
MSA-C patient clearly shows widening relative to that of the normal subject shown in Fig. 3b. The cerebellar 
peduncle (red arrow in Fig. 3i) is slimmer in the MSA-C patient, while the posterior lobe (black arrow in Fig. 
3i) manifests a looser folding pattern in the CBWM of the MSA-C patient relative to that of the normal 
subject (Fig.3d). Our finding of gray matter loss in the upper vermis and anterior lobe, and white matter loss 
in the peduncles and posterior lobe, is in line with the previous MSA study (Specht et al., 2003). Lesions in 
 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(C)         (D) 
Fig4. Number of fiber bundles connect from cerebellum to cerebral (AAL90) for MSA(A) and normal data(B) 
in which lines represents 26 areas in cerebellum and color means 7 areas parcellated by our method. The 
cortical-cerebellum tract of MSA(C) and normal data (D). Color does not mean anything in these two figures 
(C and D). 
Significant decrease in 3D-GI values for the MSA-C group 
The CBWM volumes of the normal group showed a highly significant gender difference (p=0.0052). The 
CBGM volumes of the normal group also exhibited a trend of gender difference (p=0.09).  
The estimated 3D-GI values (mean ± standard deviation) for normal subjects were 2.4266  0.1738 for 
CBGM and 1.3921 0.0659 for CBWM. The 3D-GI values (mean ± standard deviation) of the MSA-C 
patients were 2.0099  0.2246 for CBGM and 1.2683 0.0863 for CBWM. The two-way ANOVA results are 
summarized in Fig. 5. The 3D-GI values for the MSA-C group were significantly smaller than those of the 
normal group for both CBGM and CBWM (p=1.33e-015 and p=1.7e-09 respectively; Fig.5a). The CBGM 
and CBWM volumes of MSA-C subjects were also significantly smaller than those of the normal subjects. 
(p=8.81e-05 for CBGM and p=2.11e-07 for CBWM; Fig. 5b). This suggest that MSA-C patients demonstrate 
significantly more hypogyrification in both the CBGM and CBWM surface of the cerebellum than normal 
subjects do, even in the early phases of the disease. The estimated CBGM and CBWM 3D-GI values are both 
independent of age-related shrinkage and the 3D-GI values can easily differentiate MSA-C patients from 
normal subjects. 
(A) 
  
(B) 
 9 
 
5. Wu, Y.C., Field, A.S., Whalen, P.J., Alexander, A.L., 2011. Age- and gender-related changes in the 
normal human brain using hybrid diffusion imaging (HYDI). Neuroimage 54, 1840-1853. 
6. Bammer, R., Augustin, M., Strasser-Fuchs, S., Seifert, T., Kapeller, P., Stollberger, R., Ebner, F., 
Hartung, H.P., Fazekas, F., 2000. Magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging for characterizing diffuse 
and focal white matter abnormalities in multiple sclerosis. Magn Reson Med 44, 583-591. 
7. Lim, K.O., Hedehus, M., Moseley, M., de Crespigny, A., Sullivan, E.V., Pfefferbaum, A., 1999. 
Compromised white matter tract integrity in schizophrenia inferred from diffusion tensor imaging. Arch 
Gen Psychiatry 56, 367-374. 
8. Audoin, B., Guye, M., Reuter, F., Au Duong, M.V., Confort-Gouny, S., Malikova, I., Soulier, E., Viout, P., 
Cherif, A.A., Cozzone, P.J., Pelletier, J., Ranjeva, J.P., 2007. Structure of WM bundles constituting the 
working memory system in early multiple sclerosis: a quantitative DTI tractography study. Neuroimage 
36, 1324-1330. 
9. Skudlarski, P., Jagannathan, K., Calhoun, V.D., Hampson, M., Skudlarska, B.A., Pearlson, G., 2008. 
Measuring brain connectivity: diffusion tensor imaging validates resting state temporal correlations. 
Neuroimage 43, 554-561.  
10. Richman, D.P., Stewart, R.M., Hutchison, J.W., Caviness, S.V., 1975. Mechanical model of brain 
convolutional development. Science 189,18-21. 
11. Zilles, K., Armstrong, E., Schleicher, A., Kretschmann, H.J. 1988. The human pattern of gyrification in 
the cerebral cortex. Anat Embryol 179, 173-179. 
12. Harris, J.M., Yates, S., Miller, P., Best, J.J.K., Johnstone, E.C., Lawrie, S.M., 2004. Gyrification in 
first-episode schizophrenia: A morphometric study. Biol Psychiatry 55, 141-147. 
13. Zilles, K., Schleicher, A., Langemann, C., Amunts, K., Morosan, P., Palomero-Gallagher, N., Schormann, 
T., Mohlberg, H., Burgel, U., Steinmetz, H., Schlaug, G., Roland, P.E., 1997. Quantitative analysis of 
Sulci in the human cerebral cortex: development, regional heterogeneity, gender difference, asymmetry, 
intersubject variability and cortical architecture. Hum Brain Map 5, 218-221. 
14. Kesler, S.R., Vohr, B., Schneider, K.C., Katz, K.H., Makuch, R.W., Reiss, A.L., Ment, L.R. 2006. 
Increased temporal lobe gyrification in preterm children. Neuropsychologia 44, 445-453.  
15. White, T., Su, S., Schmidt, M., Kao, C.Y., Sapiro, G., 2010. The development of gyrification in 
childhood and adolescence. Brain Cogn 72, 36-45. 
16. Armstrong, E., Schleicher, A., Omran, H., Curtis, M., Zilles, K., 1995. The ontogeny of human 
gyrification. Cereb Cortex 5, 56-63. 
17. Bonnici, H.M., Moorhead, T.W.J., Stanfield, A.C., Harris, J.M., Owens, D.G., Johnstone, E.C., Lawrie, 
S.M. 2007. Pre-frontal lobe gyrification index in schizophrenia, mental retardation and comorbid groups: 
An automated study. Neuroimage 35, 648-654. 
18. Gaser, C., Luders, E., Thompson, P.M., Lee, A.D., Dutton, R.A., Geaga, J.A., Hayashi, K.M., Bellugi, U., 
Galaburda, A.M., Korenberg, J.R., Mills, D.L., Toga, A.W., Reiss, A.L., 2006. Increased local 
gyrification mapped in Williams syndrome. Neuroimage 33, 46–54. 
19. Zhang, Y., Yu, C., Zhou, Y., Li, K., Li, C., Jiang, T., 2009. Decreased gyrification in major depressive 
disorder. Neuroreport 20, 378-380. 
 11 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫為第一個將三維表面型態腦迴化指標分析用於小腦腦迴複雜度之研
究，並發現三維表面型態腦迴化指標可以指出細微的萎縮情況，甚至是在多
系統萎縮症的早期，就能量化出多系統萎縮症患者之小腦灰質與小腦白質皆
與健康受測者有顯著性之差異，並且不受年齡與性別等內在因素之影響，此
特性並可以讓此方法應用於更多萎縮性疾病，例如 Alzheimer’s disease 
(AD), Parkinson’s disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS)與 dementia。
而本計畫結合三維表面型態腦迴化指標與全腦神經網路連結分析的整合性分
析，不再只是如同過去由各個面向單獨地去觀察該疾病，而是全面地、相互
參照地去探討多系統萎縮症所造成之變異，並將這樣完整的資訊，以及經由
本計畫建立的多影像處理平台，提供給臨床醫師成為提升早期診斷多系統萎
縮症準確率的輔助工具。 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳秀美 計畫編號：99-2221-E-075-003- 
計畫名稱：結構性磁振造影研究於多系統萎縮症之區別分析與疾病模型建構 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100% 
負責影像分析方
法建構與影像處
理 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 50% 
數個計畫共同成
果 ， 已 被
Neuroimage 接
受 ,under 
revising 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
