1. 研究背景與目的 
隨著軟體產業的進步，近年來電腦執行的速度大幅提升，軟體程式的開發也越來越龐大，
系統原始碼動輒數萬行，想要一個人進行整個系統開發幾乎不太可能，經常需要整個團隊
一起進行開發。對於團隊的軟體設計或軟體維護而言，第一件工作往往是要找出某一性能
的實作究竟是與那些特定元件有關，才能進一步深入了解這些元件的內部設計，為了讓軟
體開發更加順利，軟體專案應具備另一種文件，一種描述系統規格與系統架構的系統文件，
尤其是大型專案，開發人員可以利用文件輔助軟體的維護與發展，降低開發成本並提高軟
體品質來幫助系統設計相關文件，即使文件存在也不能保證其完整性或是資料未更新至最
新狀態，如果有完整的系統相關文件，開發者就能透過文件來了解系統，並給予更多維護
上的幫助與參考。 
如果系統文件不存在或是有資料不足的問題，要得到適當的高階文件，只能想辦法由原始
碼取得相對應的設計文件，所需要的技術叫做反向工程。所謂反向工程其概念恰與軟體發
展生命週期之發展過程完全相反，軟體發展生命週期是逐步地將系統設計的邏輯概念，逐
步發展成實體的系統設計，而後編成可行之程式碼，進而執行測試，反向工程則是以相反
而漸進的步驟將程式碼轉換成類似批次流程設計，DFD、UML 等容易為系統維護人員了解的
邏輯或實體之分析與設計的圖形或文件等相關報表，以使維護人員容易了解現存系統之架
構，並加以改變。 
除了原始碼以外，還有一些相關的系統文件，例如原始碼管控系統(source control) 或是
錯誤追蹤(bug tracking)系統中的說明。這些通常都是抽象層次相當低的文件，隨著程式
碼更新時一併輸入。軟體歷史資料在一些研究中已顯示能幫助了解系統以及預測錯誤和維
護所需資源。如果能結合這些文件中的資訊和原始碼反向所得的資訊，對於了解軟體系統
會更有助益[1]。目前已有幾種結合的方式已被提出，如 Ahmed 等人擷取出原始碼管控系
統內之資訊，結合軟體本身之靜態關聯圖(static dependency graph)後，利用一軟體架構
發掘方法程序來了解 NetBSD 開放原始碼之軟體架構[2]。我們之前的研究以 Bugzilla 錯
誤回報系統做為來源資料，並從中分析軟體性能與元件對應關係，然而此工具所得到的結
果無法顯示相關性之強弱，必須藉助於文字探勘(Text Mining)、資訊擷取(Information 
Retrieval)的技術方能得到這方面的資訊。 
Sullivan 定義文字探勘是「一種編輯、組織和分析大量文件的過程，以提供特定使用者
(如：決策者、分析師)特定的資訊(如：摘要、關鍵字)，發現某些特徵及其間的關聯」[3]。
換言之，文字探勘可定義為從文件中萃取出重要資訊的一種過程。而資訊擷取則是文字探
勘中常用到的技術，資訊擷取主要是針對文件中有效詞彙擷取、有效詞彙索引、全文檢索、
文件自動分類及自動摘要，所使用的技術。 
然而在傳統的資訊擷取 技術應用時，術語是否相關往往取決於文件中術語之間的距離與頻
率，例如 Cleary et al.的作法即為一例，沒有考慮程式碼的特性[4]。我們在計算術語之
間的距離時，將資料流分析(data flow analysis)的概念融入，因此即使兩術語文件中的
距離過大，無法被傳統之資訊擷取 納入考慮，但是如果以資料流看來兩術語相對應之變數
是相關的，我們也會將其距離值作適當調整，如此結合資訊擷取 與傳統的反向工程程式分
析技巧應當能得到最精確的資訊。 
 
2. 文獻探討 
資訊擷取是指搜尋資訊的科學，隨著文明的不斷演進，資訊型態也越來越複雜，不同的資
訊型態互相結合，也是常有的事情。資訊常見的有:文字（Text）、影像（Image）、音訊（Audio）
和視訊（Video）這四類不同的資訊。由於以上四類資訊型態相異，故檢索的方式也不同。 
3. 系統設計與實作 
本研究的雛型系統主要功能如下圖，共分為兩個部份，分別為資訊擷取跟資料流分析。資
訊擷取出關鍵字集合與各程式碼內容之相關性；資料流分析則為個別程式分析後，增添有
資料流關係之變數名稱到關鍵字集合。 
 
分析步驟如下圖: 
1.使用者進入使用者介面； 
2.輸入query跟開啟文件檔案； 
3.判斷輸入格式是否無誤，如果錯誤，產生提示訊息，並且重新回到使用者介面； 
4.經過資料流分析原始碼檔案之後，將回傳結果加入原先的關鍵字一起分析； 
5.顯示分析結果。 
 
4. 結果討論 
本研究以資訊擷取的方式再加上資料流分析，藉以發掘程式中隱含的與某功能有關之資
訊。下圖之左邊畫面為使用傳統資訊擷取方法所得到的數據，而右邊畫面則為結合資料流
分析所得結果。 
 
下圖比較兩邊數據後，可以明顯看出增加資料流分析的數值比僅有資訊擷取的系統多了一
些，至於是否顯著優於傳統的資訊擷取有待更嚴謹的實驗數據加以證明。 
 
Dora運用自然語言查詢技術，以工程師要了解的性能文字為起點，搜尋原始碼亦產生與此
性能可能相關程式的部份系統呼叫圖(systems call graph)[5]。Find-Concept為一半自動
化工具，藉由與使用者互動，依據工具產生的可能路徑結果，將原先的性能查詢擴充為更
有效的查詢[6]。Canfora 和 Cerulo 則利用資訊擷取技術於CVS and Bugzilla 儲存庫以
作為衝擊分析(impact analysis)[7,8]。Marcus et al.運用現有的語言模式資訊擷取架
構，Latent semantic indexing，在軟體系統之性能(又稱觀念)定位上[9]。Clearyet al.
運用另一種語言模式資訊擷取架構Hyperspace analogue to language，並以實驗方式驗證
其成效[4]。 
 
參考文獻 
 
1. Hassan, A.E., "Mining Software Repositories to Assist Developers and Support 
Managers," in Proc. Of 22nd IEEE International Conference on Software 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 99-2221-E-017-009- 
計畫名稱 整合資訊擷取與資料流分析技術以評估軟體系統性能與元件關係 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
葉道明 
國立高雄師範大學軟體工程系教授 
會議時間地點 Melbourne, Australia: March 28 - April 1, 2011 
會議名稱 Global Learn Asia Pacific 2011 - Global Conference on Learning and Technology 
發表論文題目 Applying Blogs into Reading Instruction for Primary School Students 
 
1、 參加會議經過 
Monday, March 28 
 08:00-16:00 Registration (delayed till noon) 
Keynotes: Global Classrooms, Rural benefits: Creative Outreach Through Computing in Education 
Panel discussion: Transforming Education: Assessing and Teaching 21st Century Skills 
Concurrent sessions 
 
Tuesday, March 29 
Invited talk: Mass Poverty and the Information Technology and Communications Revolution 
Panel discussion: Delivery of Full Online Programs: Opportunities, Issues & Challenges 
Invited talk: The Organizational Knowledge Circulated Management on E-Learning Practices 
Towards Web2.0 World 
Concurrent sessions: reporting at the 2:45-3:45 session  
 
Wednesday, March 30 
Keynotes: Creating Learning Futures 
Invited talk: Sorry, but You Can’t Get There From Here: the Bumpy Road to Innovating in 
Education 
Invited talk: Social Networking as Requisite for the Academics! 
Invited Panel: Conversation: the Future of Global Learn 
 
Thursday, March 31 
Invited talk: On the Wrong Tram: Better Ways of Getting E-Capabilities 
Invited talk: Ubiquitous Learning for the 21st Century 
Keynote Panel: Digital Futures, Now & When 
 
Friday, April 1 
Applying Blogs into Reading Instruction for 
Primary School Students 
 
 
Dowming Yeh 
Department of Software Engineer  
National Kaohsiung Normal University 
Taiwan 
dmyeh@nknu.edu.tw 
 
Jwu-Yi Lai 
Graduate Institute of Information & Computer Education 
National Kaohsiung Normal University 
Taiwan 
dmyeh@nknu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract: It is very important to learn reading even in the digital age. However, according to an 
investigational report by the government, in general, most Taiwanese students are not willing to have 
reading as an activity.  On the other hand, spending time on the Internet has become more and more 
common for adolescents in their spare time.  This is a case study that applies blogs into reading 
instructions for primary school students.  We would like to know the possibility of using blogs on 
constructing a teaching platform for reading instruction and reactions of students on blog reading.  
The subjects of this study are 33 students from a sixth grade class. A blog for reading instructions is 
first created. The students participate in the activity by posting their own answers, opinions or 
discussions of the questions which the teacher posts on the blog. The blog serves as a tool of reading 
instructions as well as a medium of exchanging free-flowing opinions, which is difficult to be carried 
out in a traditional class.  This research is expected to act as a reference for instructors who are 
interested in applying blogs and the Internet services on teaching. 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
 Today’s society is the one full of information. The ability to read is essential for maximizing success in the 
endeavors of daily life, continuing intellectual growth, and realizing personal potential. Similarly, a literate citizenry is 
vital to a nation’s social growth and economic prosperity (Mullis et al., 2007).  It is a convenient way for us to get 
more abundant knowledge and stories through reading (Hung and Tzeng, 2006).  Therefore, even in the 21st century, 
audio-visual information is packed with our daily life while reading is still the most important ability to learn. 
However, Taiwanese students’ lack of the habit of reading is the fact which is beyond controversy.  The 
investigation results in both international and domestic shows consistency.  The newest announcement of 2007 
  
The Study 
 
 The subjects of this study are a sixth grade class of a municipal primary school in Kaohsiung.  There are 33 
students in this class; there are 18 boys and 15 girls in the class. All students in this class had learned the blogging skills 
in the computer science class when they were at the fifth grade.  Each student has his/her own blogs.  After attending 
the blogging skills course, some students keep blogging on their own blogs. They do not only post articles on their own 
blogs, but also visit classmates’ blogs and leave comments on their blogs.  The homeroom teacher of this class often 
uses technology equipment in teaching.  Accordingly, the students of this class are familiar with using information 
technology to learn languages, math, science, and other courses.  Moreover, the homeroom teacher also uses blogs as 
the basis of constructing class web pages.  the homeroom teacher posts announcements, including daily assignment 
and communicates on-line with students on the class blog.   
 We use Xuite.net BLOG system as our platform because it is easy for primary school students to register as a 
member of this website; they don’t need to input too much personal information, such as ID number.  Furthermore, the 
users’ interface of Xuite.net is very friendly and cute.  It is less difficult for sixth graders to use. 
The researcher created a blog for the reading class and several blogs for each selected book. The researcher, 
who is also the teacher of the class, posts some articles of introducing the books and some questions about the books for 
students to answer and discuss. By using the function of RSS, teachers and learners don‘t have to check the blog 
frequently to know whether there are new posts or comments or not.  We also provide some hyperlinks about the 
reading materials on the reading blog for students to navigate the websites by themselves. 
The researcher created a blog for the reading class and several blogs for each selected book. The researcher, 
who is also the teacher of the class, posts some articles of introducing the books and some questions about the books for 
students to answer and discuss. By using the function of RSS, teachers and learners don‘t have to check the blog 
frequently to know whether there are new posts or comments or not.  We also provide some hyperlinks about the 
reading materials on the reading blog for students to navigate the websites by themselves. 
In this study, we want every student to be able to have one book to read for every reading material. Therefore, 
we need 33 duplicates of each extracurricular book that we choose.  But we don’t have enough budgets to buy the 
books we need.  Then we found a program provided by Kaohsiung Public Library that can meet our needs. The 
program is known as ”Sending books to classrooms.”  In this program, Kaohsiung Public Library provides 137 kinds 
of extracurricular books for junior high school students and 238 kinds of extracurricular books for primary students.  
Each kind of books has 50 duplicates.  The schoolteacher can borrow these books for every student and use them in 
class.  Therefore, we choose three books which are suitable for sixth grader to read from the book list in this program 
as our reading materials in this study.  The three books are “The hometown of the wind and angel,” “The Sage Hunter”, 
and “The Haunting”. 
The experiment lasted for 10 weeks. Students read the books chosen by the researcher one book at a time.  
After students having read the book, they visited the reading blogs which are constructed by the researcher to answer 
and discuss the questions with classmates and the researcher.  The steps are described in detail as follows: 
 Preparation:  
(1) Researcher chose and borrowed the reading materials from Kaohsiung Public Library.  The chosen reading 
materials were “The hometown of the wind and angel,” “The Sage Hunter,” and “The Haunting.” 
classrooms.  Teachers can have their own way to use this social tool in their teaching. 
The conclusions are listed below: 
(1) Blogs can organize the online in-class discussion.  It makes this on-line conversation be on a slightly higher level 
than real in-class discussion because students can think before putting in their responses. 
(2) It can make up for the insufficient time allocation in school. 
(3) Using blogs in education can motivate the students to participate in the learning activities. 
(4) Blogs construct a good communication mechanism for teachers and students. 
(5) There is no evidence to show that if blogs have changed students’ reading behavior or not. 
In conclusion, blogs are one of the most popular web 2.0 services and interesting tools available for everyone to use.  
And we believe that blogs are worthy for every teacher to use as a new teaching methodology in their daily teaching. 
 
 
References 
 
Chou, S.-Y. (2006). Assisting Global Education in High School Geography Curriculum Through Internet Cooperative 
Learning on Both Sides of Taiwan Strait. Unpublished Master, National Taiwan Normal University. 
 
Huffaker, D. (2005). The educated blogger: Using weblogs to promote literacy in the classroom. AACE Journal, 13(2), 
91. 
 
Huang, J.-M. (2006). Study on Integrating Interactive Internet Learning into the Information Education in Elementary 
Schools. Unpublished Master, National University of Tainan. 
 
Hung, D. L., and Tzeng, J. L. (2006). Different People, Different Views: The Action Symphony of Brain and Mind. 
Taipei: Common Wealth.  
 
Jao, K.-H. (2001). The Experimental Study of Application of Web-Based Learning Community. Unpublished Master, 
National Taiwan Normal University. 
 
Lin, J. (2007). The Review of Digital Trend at The Year-end of 2007 [Electronic Version], from 
http://mag.udn.com/mag/digital/storypage.jsp?f_MAIN_ID=315&f_SUB_ID=2926&f_ART_ID=99767 
  
Mullis, I. V. S., Margin, M. O., Kennedy, A. M., & Foy, P. (2007). PIRLS 2006 International Report 
 
Yang, T.-y. (2004). Study of Fifth-grade Primary School Students Learning Line Symmetry concepts through Internet 
CAI. Unpublished Master, National University of Tainan.  
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：葉道明 計畫編號：99-2221-E-017-009- 
計畫名稱：整合資訊擷取與資料流分析技術以評估軟體系統性能與元件關係 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
