摘要:  永續環境是國際上共同追求的目標，而為評估環境永續性，永續指標為常用之方
法。但由於目前的指標多為單一數值，故無法了解資源是否有效利用及地方環境永續性之
空間與時間變化。本研究因而發展環境永續帳、空間分析指標及永續地圖，以協助地方提
升環境永續性。於環境永續帳中，本研究藉由探討地方水環境指標與環保局水環境預算之
關係，導引管理者調整預算分配，以使資源可更有效用以提升地方環境永續性。於空間分
析指標中，本研究探討廢棄物清運績效之空間差異性及地方特性，以反應廢棄物清運之真
實績效。本研究更結合綠色生活地圖之概念，建置永續地圖雛型系統，期使民眾能更關心
生活週遭環境及永續議題。 
關鍵詞：環境永續指標、環境永續帳、空間性指標、永續地圖、永續環境系統分析 
 
Abstract:  Improving sustainability has gained increasing attention and become an important 
policy goal in many countries. The progress for improving sustainability can be evaluated by a set 
of appropriate environmental sustainability indicators. However, most indicators are only a single 
value and not capable of evaluating the appropriateness of a budget allocation and the spatial 
variations of regional environmental sustainability. This study thus proposed an environmental 
sustainability accounting (ESA) system, spatial aggregate performance indicator for waste 
collection, and a sustainability map to assist a region in raising its sustainability. The ESA system 
was developed to assist a local authority with making appropriate budget allocations for 
improving regional water environmental sustainability in an efficient manner. Spatial factors such 
as population distribution and road density can significantly affect the performance of municipal 
solid waste collection, and if they are not properly evaluated, the performance assessment may be 
unfair. A spatial municipal solid waste collection aggregate indicator was thus established. 
Sustainability maps are extended Green Maps designed to link local natural, cultural, and 
environmental assets, including green spaces, cultural sites, eco-resources, etc. The process of 
making these maps provides an effective technique for promoting community participation and 
influencing the general public to increase consciousness regarding sustainability. 
 
Keywords: environmental sustainability indicator, environmental sustainability accounting, 
spatial indicator, environmental sustainability map, sustainable environmental systems analysis 
 
一、前言與研究目的 
In 1987, Brundtland Commission (WCED, 1987) introduced the popular definition of 
sustainable development (SD): “…development that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” After then, improving 
sustainability had gained increasing attention and become an important policy goal in many 
countries. 
To assess the progress for improving the environmental sustainability, indicators are 
frequently used to measure the progress. For instance, Environmental Sustainability Index 
proposed (Esty et al. 2005), Wellbeing of Nations (Rescott-Allen, 2001), and Regional Quality of 
Life Counts (UK DEFRA, 2004) are several typical examples of the indicators. However, most 
indicators, each gives only a single value, are not capable of evaluating the appropriateness of 
governments, as well as companies and institutes. For instance, Full Cost Accounting (USEPA, 
1998) considers the cost incurred in the past, present, and future, and is applied for analyzing the 
actual cost of an environmental management strategy. This system, although applicable for a 
regional government, does not consider the state of the environmental changes nor any of the 
various environmental sustainability measures. According to the ‘polluter pays’ principle, the 
European System for the Collection of Economic Data on the Environment identifies the cost of 
environmental protection and ascertains the amount of the transfers (Eurostat, 2002). For 
evaluating the effectiveness of protection efforts, this system briefly describes a set of Response 
indicators, under the Driving Force-State-Response (DSR) framework, to link protection 
expenditures. However, no report is available for describing the detailed implementation of the 
Response indicators.  
In this study, similar to the concept proposed by the system described by Eurostat (2002) for 
linking Response indicators with protection expenditures, a set of RWES indicators are integrated 
into an existing financial budget allocation system for analyzing (a) the applicability of budget 
allocation for improving environmental sustainability and (b) the consistency of the allocation in 
meeting various environmental sustainability visions and goals. The proposed system should 
facilitate the decision and evaluation processes for an effective budget allocation to achieve short- 
and long-term environmental sustainability visions and goals.  
Spatial aggregate indicator for assessing the performance of municipal solid waste 
For assessing the performance of MSW collection practice, two methods are frequently 
applied: a questionnaire survey (Dajani et al., 1976) and KPI (Ugwu et al., 2007). A questionnaire 
survey, although simple and useful, is usually influenced by the questions asked and may produce 
subjective results. It is also difficult to decide which sampling groups should be surveyed and 
how to implement the survey. A KPI, although simple and generally easy to understand, usually 
can assess only one single aspect or factor that is not enough to assess the overall performance. 
Currently, several methods are available to aggregate sub-indicators, such as Analytic 
Hierarchy Process (AHP) (Saaty, 1987), Impact Assessment Analysis (Prë-Consultants, 2002), 
Conjoint Analysis (Ülengin, 2001). However, the weights determined by these methods for KPIs 
may be subjective. Data envelopment analysis (DEA) (Charnes et al., 1978) can discriminate 
relative effectiveness of evaluated units based on multiple inputs and outputs, and the weights of 
sub-indicators are directly generated based on the indicator values themselves without external 
judgment. However, as indicated by Depotis (2005), DEA applies different weight sets to assess 
different evaluation targets and is thus not directly comparable. Therefore, Despotis (2005) 
modified DEA and proposed a common weight (CW) method to derive a set of common weights 
for sub-indicators. However, the CW method generates many different alternative CW sets, and it 
is hard to decide which one is the final CW. Therefore, this study modified the CW method and 
proposed four rules: discrimination, no exclusion for major KPIs, similarity, and skewness to 
select the final CW from alternative CW sets. The final CW was then applied to assess the 
performance of MSW collection services in 307 Taiwan local governments. 
Sustainability map 
Green Maps, created by the well-developed Green Map System (GMS, 2007), are special 
maps designed to link regional natural, cultural, and environment assets, including green spaces, 
established. The procedure for developing the aggregate indicator is expected to be applicable for 
developing a similar aggregate indicator for other areas. 
Sustainability map 
A prototypical sustainability map system was developed in this study. The system includes 
two major parts: an online database sub-system and a spatial indicator sub-system. The 
information for various sites are gathered from various Green Map teams or from the general 
public. To facilitate the collection and presentation of the information as well as effective local 
participation, an online database system is proposed. 
To pursue regional environmental sustainability, it is important to closely monitor regional 
development. A spatial indicator system is to be developed to present the spatial distribution of 
various features to improve regional environmental sustainability. Various sites in polygonal (e.g, 
open space), linear (e.g., river) or point (e.g., drop-off centers) shapes can be presented, accessed, 
and spatially evaluated by the system. Various spatial indicators will be collected or derived 
based on the information prepared for making various Green Maps. For example, a spatial 
indicator is to be developed for assess the accessibility of open spaces for local residents.   
This sustainability map system is developed using programs developed by the authors in the 
Scalable Vector Graphic (SVG) language (W3C, 2007), MapViewSVG (MapViewSVG, 2007), a 
web-based computer language (PHP, 2007), packages (XOOPS, 2007), and a geo-referenced 
database developed based on MySQL (MySQL, 2007), and an Excel-based worksheet developed 
by the authors. The proposed system, other than supporting grassroots green map development, is 
expected to significantly facilitate various spatial and temporal regional sustainability analyses. 
Besides increasing the sustainability consciousness of the general public, this sustainability map 
system is intended to show and analyze the spatial distribution and temporal changes of 
sustainability issues and status. 
四、結果與討論 
Environmental sustainability accounting 
The financial accounting information was provided by the accounting office of the Hsinchu 
City Environmental Protection Bureau. A prototypical system was developed in this study to 
demonstrate the applicability of the proposed system. The original system was developed in 
Chinese, and a demonstrative English version was made available on the Internet, 
http://RwesBa.ev.nctu.edu.tw. An integrated Web-based interface, as shown in Figure 2, was 
developed for the system. Figure 2 lists the ESIs selected for Hsinchu City based on the DSR 
classification framework for water management. As shown in Figure 3, a pie chart generated by 
the system shows the percentage of the entire budget allocated to each KI, and a bar chart shows 
the achievement rate of each KI. By comparing budget allocation and achievement rates of the 
indicators, the manager can evaluate and decide how to adjust the budget allocation. 
Spatial aggregate indicator for assessing the performance of municipal solid waste 
Thirty-two MSW indicators were collected, and five KPIs of the cost per MSW collection 
quantity, MSW collection quantity per unit collection time, MSW collection quantity per 
collection vehicle, served population per collector, and MSW collection quantity per vehicle 
mileage were selected according to six criteria. Spatial characteristics, such as the population 
Eurostat, 2002. SERIEE European system for the collection of economic information on the 
environment-1994 version. Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 
Luxembourg. 
Green Map System (GMS), 2007. Green Maps around the world (accessed 2007, 
://www.greenmap.com/http
Des
Jan
UR
). 
MapViewSVG., 2007. Web mapping mit SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) Technologies.(accessed 
2007, http://www.mapview.de/). 
MySQL, (2007). MySQL - the world’s most popular open source database. (accessed 2007, 
http://www.mysql.com/). 
PHP, 2007. What is php? (accessed 2007, http://www.php.net/). 
Prë-Consultants, 2000. The Eco-indicator 99 . A damage oriented method for life cycle impact 
assessment, Netherlands. (accessed 2006 http://www.pre.nl/eco-indicator99) 
Prescott-Allen, R., 2001 The Wellbeing of Nations: A Country-by-Country Index of Quality of 
Life and the Environment, Island Press, Washington D.C.   
Rebello, L.H.B., Barbosa J.C.L., Muniz, M.I.P.A., 2004. The Green Map of Rio de Janeiro. 
igning for the 21st Century III, an International Conference on Universal Design Rio de 
eiro, Brazil. 
Saaty, R.W., 1987. The analytic hierarchy processes: what it is and how it is used. Mathematical 
Modelling, 9, 161-176. 
Tulloch, D.L., 2004. The Green Map System as a Means for PPGIS Education and Exploration. 
ISA 3rd Annual PPGIS Conference, Madison, WI, U.S.A.  
Ugwu, O.O., Haupt, T.C., 2007. Key performance indicators and assessment methods for 
infrastructure sustainability—a South African construction industry perspective. Building 
and Environment, 42, 665-580. 
Ülengin, B., Ülengin, F., Güvenc, Ü., 2001. A multidimensional approach to urban quality of life: 
The Case of Istanbul. European Journal of Operational Research, 130, 361-374. 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA), 1998. Full cost accounting in action: case 
studies of six solid waste management agencies. U. S. EPA, Washington D.C. 
W3C, 2007. Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) 1.1 Specification. (accessed 2007, 
http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/). 
World Commission on Environment and Development (WCED), 1987. Our Common Future. 
Oxford University Press, New York. 
XOOPS, (2007). Official XOOPS Website. (accessed 2007, http://www.xoops.org/). 
 
 Figure 3. KIs and budget analysis. 
 
 
Figure 4. Major components and the procedure for applying the online database. 
表 Y04 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此研討是北歐地理學會所舉辦的第二屆國際研討會，每二年舉辦一次，這次研討會
由挪威舉辦，下次將在芬蘭舉辦，共有百餘篇論文於研討會發表，有數百名學者專家參
與，本人及潘子欽、翁育農、劉坤興等同學所發表的論文“e-Local Sustainability Map”，
由本人代表予會口頭發表論文。 
研討會在挪威 Bergen 市舉行，研討會自 6 月 14 日起至 17 日止，共 4 日，在參與研
討會的途中，本人與清大王俊秀教授、師大蔡慧敏教授及東華紀子文教授先至瑞典的
Lund University 參訪，並在 Prof. Eric Clark 的安排下作了一次演講，演講內容同所
發表的論文，但作了較長時間的詳細介紹，本人的演講也引起一位該校教授的濃厚興
趣，且將應用在其類似的計畫中，促進及提昇北歐民眾關懷永續的議題。其他三位教授
也分別介紹了他們的研究成果，亦均引起廣泛的討論。 
6 月 13 日抵達 Bergon，稍作休息後，即去參觀一下巿區，也見識到北歐的夏日夜
長，直到晚上 12 點仍然有微弱的光線，幾位來自台灣的教授，居然在北歐夜遊，且是
有陽光的夜遊，不過，也了解了北歐的冬季是很辛苦的季節，冬季每日日照很短，下午
三點即天黑，甚至在瑞典還看到辦公室中有光療用的抬燈，雖然夏季的北歐是讓人喜悅
的季節，但冬天是酷寒日照很少。 
第二天 14 日一早即參加研討會的安排的參觀活動，參觀挪威地區的地方永續發展，
途中見識了挪威的風景優美，這個以前有海盜的國家居然如此富裕，民眾均受到很好的
照顧，他們的地方永續發展也做得很好，甚至一個廢棄的工廠都能將其轉化成歷史古蹟
來保存，而其油田及油港也很讓人訝異，居然看不到油污髒亂，其環保及工業安全的標
準與要求，我們可能要很多年才追得上，甚至也在研究二氣化碳地下儲存的技術，且是
由私人公司進行這些技術的研發，一個污染性的工業居然作到一個快看不到污染的境
界，實在讓人欣佩。當日晚間在 Bergon 藝術博物館安排了一些歡迎晚會，也與來參與
研討會的學者專家交流。 
15日大會安排了二個Keynote sessions，由來自University of Oulu 的Prof. Anssi Paasi 
全球化下區域與認同感，University of Exceter 的 Prof. Jo Little 鄉村地區一些永續議題及
受全球化的影響，之後分為 8 個會場平行進行，主題包括 Rural mobilities/Migration、
Landscape geography、Thresholds、City regions and economic geographies、GIS、
Local sustainability、Community conservation、Urban policies 等，本人的論文被
安排在 Local sustainability 主題下發表，同一主題下，還有另外三篇論文發表，包
括地方永續指標、歐盟海域政策是否符合地方對永續發展的期望、全球化下以觀光發展
為主邁向永續發展，之後接著有 Geographies of practice、The globalization 
services、Regional politics、Local sustainability、Urban polices、Regional 
industrial development 等新主題論文發表，本人主要聆聽了清大王教授的 Globalized 
sustainability in a cultural context及Prof. Clark 與師大蔡教授共同發表的Island 
studies of ecosystem-social system coevolution for local sustainable 
development 等論文，之後進行第三場次的平行論文發表，包括 Rural 
mobilities/migration、Landscape geography、Landscape management、The 
globalization of services、Second home/multiple dwelling development、Geography 
of health、Mountain ecosystem response to global change、Urban policies、Regional 
industrial development 等主題，其中較引起本人興趣的論文包括景觀定性方法、一戶
多屋的影響、以健康作為評估地方經濟發展的因子及疾病的擴散等論文，直到晚間七點
多結束。 
 
Presented in 2nd Nordic Geographers’ Meeting, (2007) 
e-Local Sustainability Map  
Jehng-Jung Kao, Tze-Chin Pan, Yu-Nong Wong, and Kun-Hsing Liu  
Institute of Environmental Engineering, 
National Chiao Tung University, 
Hsinchu, Taiwan, Republic of China 
 E-mail: jjkao@mail.nctu.edu.tw 
Tel: +886-3-5731869 Fax: +886-3-5731759 
http://jjkao.ev.nctu.edu.tw/weboffice/eindex.php 
ABSTRACT 
This paper describes a long term grassroots project to improve sustainability of the 
Hsinchu area in Taiwan through the practice of making electric local sustainability (eLS) 
maps. eLS maps are extended Green Maps designed to link local natural, cultural, and 
environmental assets, including green spaces, cultural sites, eco-resources, etc. The process 
of making these maps provides an effective technique for promoting community 
participation and influencing the general public to increase consciousness regarding 
sustainability. The major goal is to attract the attention of teachers, students, organizations, 
and the general public to improve the local sustainability of the areas where they live. Three 
types of eLS maps are being developed: school-based, community-based, and enterprise- or 
organization-based. Currently, various groups, including school teachers and their students, 
parents, and residents from local communities are teamed up to develop Hsinchu eLS maps. 
The information collected for producing eLS maps will also be used to establish various 
spatial and temporal indicators to measure and reflect progress in improving local 
sustainability. Besides increasing sustainability consciousness among the general public, the 
eLS maps are intended to show and analyze spatial and temporal change of sustainability 
aspects and issues. Implementation of the plan for developing various Hsinchu eLS maps is 
described and illustrated. The making of eLS maps is expected to markedly improve the 
local sustainability of the Hsinchu area in an effective manner. 
INTRODUCTION 
Green Maps, created by the well-developed Green Map System (GMS, 2007), are 
special maps designed to link regional natural, cultural, and environment assets, including 
green spaces, cultural sites, eco-resources, etc. (Rebello et al.,2004; Tulloch, 2004). GMS is 
an effective technique for promoting community participation and influencing the general 
public to increase consciousness regarding sustainability. The icons developed by GMS 
form a subtle common map language that is easily understandable internationally, 
facilitating its adoption by cities and communities around the world, so far over 300 green 
maps have been produced and more than 390 projects have been implemented in 50 
countries (GMS, 2007).    
-1- 
Presented in 2nd Nordic Geographers’ Meeting, (2007) 
Online eLS 
Maps
The eLS spatial 
indicator system
Community
Enterprise/
Organization/
NGOs
Online database 
system
School
 
Figure 1. Six main tasks to be implemented under the proposed plan. 
School-based Green Maps 
Each school is an essential unit for education regarding local sustainability. Moreover, 
GMS is an excellent technique to assist teachers in increasing student consciousness of 
local sustainability. As part of our initial plan, and to help interested teachers learn how to 
make Green Maps, a five-day summer workshop was held in early July, 2006, for a group 
of 35 teachers, mostly from primary schools (31 teachers) with some from middle schools 
(4 teachers). During the workshop, an introduction to GMS and map icons, the long term 
vision of the Hsinchu Green Map project, various techniques for making a good map, 
effective skills for communication with local residents were presented, together with 
successful stories and experiences, good practice for making Green Maps.  Figure 2 shows 
four Green Maps made by the teachers during the workshop.  
Two sub-projects are also being implemented by two local high schools, and for each 
school a group of teachers from different subject areas, including Chinese, English, 
geography, history, natural science, and art, are working together to develop Green Maps in 
various themes. An e-book is also being prepared for use as an introductory course material. 
-3- 
Presented in 2nd Nordic Geographers’ Meeting, (2007) 
-5- 
 
Figure 3. The Black Spot Map made by the Da-Siang community (IvyEagle et al., 
2005). 
Enterprise or organization based Green Maps 
In the Hsinchu area, there is a large science industrial park with many high-tech and 
high profit private companies located inside the park. After a successful experience has 
been demonstrated for a local company with several international branches, and to increase 
the awareness for Corporate Social Responsibility for these companies, a sub-project to 
promote making enterprise-based Green Maps is going to be initiated in near future, 
immediately after an introductory presentation material is being completed.   
Similar to enterprise-based Green Maps, a similar sub-project will be simultaneously 
implemented for various organizations and clubs in the Hsinchu area.  Hopefully the entire 
Hsinchu area can be covered by various groups from schools, communities, private 
companies, and organizations.       
Online Green Maps 
For increasing the public attention and participation, the Internet is an open and 
convenient platform for information presentation and group cooperation. Two 
geo-referenced online Green Maps, SVG- and Google-Earth-based (Google, 2007), are 
currently being developed to present information for each site. Both online maps are also 
well-integrated with the online database and spatial indicator systems described after this 
sub-section.  Demonstrative prototypes for both online maps have been made available 
and are presented later in this article.  Although the Google-Earth-based online map was 
developed by a team in Taipei (Chiang et al., 2005), the local Hsinchu team plans to 
develop a similar one for the Hsinchu area.   
Presented in 2nd Nordic Geographers’ Meeting, (2007) 
 
Figure 4. SVG-based Green Map for the Gong-Guan area in Taipei, Taiwan, Republic 
of China. 
Google Earth based online Green Map  
Google Earth (Google, 2007) is a raster-based system with a 3D earth interface for 
dynamically and interactively exploring geo-referenced information. A preliminary Google 
Earth-based Green Map for the Gong-Guan area, as shown in Figure 5, was developed by 
Chiang et al. (2005).  As shown in Figure 5, a user can click or move the mouse to pan, 
zoom, and pop-up related information of a selected site.  
 
Figure 5. Google-Earth-based Green Map for the Goan-Guan area (Wang et al., 2004). 
-7- 
Presented in 2nd Nordic Geographers’ Meeting, (2007) 
 
Figure 6. Major components and the procedure for applying the online database. 
Acknowledgements 
The authors would like to thank Mr. Kim-Chen Kao, Ms. Gin-Yu Chang, Ms. Ren-Pei 
Wang, Ivy, and many members from the Society of Wilderness as well as the members of 
the Hsinchu Green Map Team for their assistance in promoting various Hsinchu Green 
Maps. Extensive kindly assistance from Ms. Wendy Brawer, the GMS creator and leader, is 
also greatly appreciated. The authors would also like to thank the National Science Council 
of the Republic of China for providing partial financial support of this study under Grant 
No. NSC 95-2221-E-009 -114. 
-9- 
