一、中文摘要 
我們研製一個全光纖同調斷層掃描攝影系統，及使用壓電陶瓷調變器，用作晶元之非破壞
性檢測。經分析加在壓電陶瓷調變器上之電壓，可實驗求得電壓與深度間之轉換函數。由
此轉換函數可進一步求得待測物之斷層深度。此方法與傳統之平台式推進之深度掃描法比
較可較有效率地獲得深度資訊。 
二、英文摘要 
We propose an all-fiber optical coherence tomography (OCT) for non-contact and 
non-invasive measurement of wafer by integrating piezoelectric transducer (PZT) for signal 
demodulation. To analyze the voltage used in PZT, and the transfer function between voltage and 
depth has found, which furthermore can get the depth of sample. It’s an effective way to find out 
the information of depth compared with conventional way which scans the sample by using the 
sophisticate stage. 
 
關鍵詞(keywords)： 
Optical coherence tomography (OCT), Piezoelectric transducer (PZT). 
 
三 、報告內容 
INTRODUCTION  
Optical coherence tomography is a non-contact and non-invasive measurement, and this technique is used in the 
medical application at first. OCT is a novel imaging technology that produces high-resolution cross-sectional images 
of the internal microstructure of living tissue [1]. The OCT methods can be divided into two classes, with sensors 
based on time domain measuring principles (TD-OCT) or on Fourier domain principles (FD-OCT). Both TD-OCT 
and FD-OCT use a light source with broad bandwidth in an interferometric setup. In TD-OCT, the reference mirror 
has to be scanned through the depth, and the interference will happen when the optical path difference of 
interferometer is under the coherence length which is decided by the light source. From the interferogram detected by 
a photo-detector, the depth information will be determined. However, FD-OCT avoids scanning of the reference 
through the depth range, and it acquires depth information by evaluation of the spectrum of the interferogram. The 
Fourier transformation of the spectrum delivers the depth information. The interferometer output is spectrally 
decomposed, and the whole spectrum is detected by an array of photo-detectors. Recently, some researchers have 
improved the longitudinal resolution to ~1μm and transverse resolution to 3μm on the biological tissue [2]. And 
some ones have improved the speed of scanning and performance of TD-OCT [3]. Besides, there is some functional 
OCT that can get some specific parameters, such as PS (Polarization Sensitive)-OCT, ODT (Optical Doppler 
Tomography), etc. In PS-OCT, a measured specific parameter is birefringence of the sample. And therefore this 
additional information can increase the image of contrast in PS-OCT. Most applications of the PS-OCT are on the 
biological tissue, especially on thermal damage of the tissue [4]. In ODT, the flow-velocity imaging can be 
constructed. Some researchers imaging the blood flow in human skin with ODT [5]. More details of OCT were 
discussed in a handbook [6]. Mostly OCT applications are focused on the medical field, but it still has the 
non-medical applications [7]. Those non-medical applications use OCT to measure the information of the tiny device, 
including the depth, length and width. We also want to use OCT in the non-medical application, so we propose this 
          
Figure 5. PZT (freq. =300Hz, V =5V).                  Figure 6. Second configuration of the OCT. (FRM 
= Faraday Rotator Mirror)  
 
When this fixed signal is at its maximum (after changing the voltage or stage), this represents that the OPD is 
zero that means the optical length in reference arm and sample arm are the same now. In ideal case, there are just two 
reasons that will affect this fixed amplitude, one is voltage, and the other is OPD that contains the information of the 
depth of sample surface. Because we focus the measurement on the sample surface, we don’t need a device that has a 
large scanning range.  
In our proposed way, we first choose the position with signal oscillating maximally on OSC as reference 
position and change a position of sample surface to scan. If the surface of this position is not plane, the OPD will be 
non-zero or even over the range of the coherent length. When OPD is changed by defective surface of the sample 
from zero to near zero, the fixed amplitude won’t be the maximum. To make use of voltage of function generator 
applying on PZT, it can compensate the level of amplitude that is degraded by OPD on OSC. When the level of 
amplitude on OSC is compensated to maximum, it means that OPD is zero again. By analyzing the applying voltage 
that makes the amplitude maximum, the relationship between voltage and information of depth can be acquired. The 
depth, which is relative to the reference position we first set, can be profiled by transforming the voltage into specific 
meters. The relative depth is found, and it can picture the surface of sample and check those wafers if they are defect.  
There is a hypothesis that oscillating signal on the OSC must be very stable. In fact, this signal will attenuate by 
itself with time. We diagnose that this problem is caused by the polarization fading and thermal effect. As figure 6 
displayed, two faraday devices in the two arms are used to compensate these effects. After inserting the faraday 
devices, the oscillating signal on OSC is more stable than one in the first configuration without FRM. Even if the 
signal in Figure 7~8 are not with the fixed amplitude in the second configuration, it still can work. As long as the 
peak to peak voltage is fixed and stable, our conceptual way can be realized.  
 
          
Figure 7. PZT (freq. = 300Hz, V =1V).    Figure 8. PZT (freq. = 300Hz, V =5V).  
FRM 
PD
OSC
Mirror 
stage
PZT 
13m 
Compensated fiber 
Collimator 
In-line FRM 
SLD
