研究摘要(500 字以內)：
由於一對多的比對不用提供使用者的編號，只要使用指紋即可通行，所以應用層面比
一對一的比對更為廣泛。但是大型指紋資料庫的一對多比對，往往非常耗時，等待比對有
結果時，已經遠超過人們的忍耐限度，所以實際的應用非常有限。本研究將提出一個快速
的一對多比對方式，讓這項方便的功能，得以真正的推廣。
指紋特徵共可分為三個層次，本研究除了以非線性的 zero-pole 角度公式來描述指紋的
方向結構外，然後以第二層的資訊──指紋走向與間距，來當作指紋的分類和索引資訊。
本系統利用以蓋伯函式代表指紋的走向與間距資訊，不同的指紋類別，設計不同的樣版，
然後根據這些樣版所得到的反應值，來做分類和索引。除此之外我們也用這些第二層的資
訊來偵測第三層的 minutiae。使整個指紋辨識系統，統一由非線性的 zero-pole 角度公式和
蓋伯函數來詮釋。所建立的指紋辨識系統融合了指紋分類索引的資訊，因而完成一套快速
的一對多指紋比對系統。
Without providing personal identification number, the matching of one-to-many is more
useful and convenient than that of one-to-one. For large-scale fingerprint database, however, it is
time-consuming to waiting for the matching result. People always cannot endure that. Therefore,
only few applications for one-to-many matching are developed. This research will propose a fast
one-to-many matching to solve the difficulty.
Fingerprints contain three-level features. This research will not only describe the
orientation of fingerprints using a nonlinear zero-pole equation, but also use principal Gabor basis
functions to form a template to classify the types of fingerprints. Besides, the second level
information, ridge orientation and frequency, is applied to detect not only the first level (cores
and deltas), but also the third level (ridge endings and bifurcations, that is minutiae). Therefore,
the proposed system is interpreted by a nonlinear zero-pole system and Gabor filters. Besides, we
will add the information of the distances between cores and deltas for indexing. Therefore, a fast
index-based fingerprint classification system is achieved.
人才培育成果說明：
1. 對於整個指紋辨識系統，包括軟體與硬體都有深入的瞭解。
2. 瞭解與使用目前現有的指紋開發工具軟體和驅動程式的設計。
3. 深入瞭解 BioAPI 的生物辨識的應用程式開發環境。
4. 深入瞭解各種作業系統的開發環境，進而實現跨平台的指紋分類索引系統。
5. 瞭解指紋演算法的優劣與製造成本間的關係。
6. 瞭解指紋各種層次特徵的特質與應用。
7. 能夠以硬體實現指紋分類索引系統。
8. 為以後擴充整合其他生物特徵包括人臉、簽名、瞳孔、掌紋、掌形、﹍等等，奠定基礎
研究的能力。
NN
i
N
p
N
q
iMi
s s
yxgyxIR  ),(),(
where N is the number of the regions of interest.
2. Classifier Design
We use a group of PGBF to form a particular ridge structures, then we can judge whether the
raw fingerprint image contain the particular ridge structures. If the response is large, then the
answer is yes. Therefore, we can avoid many pixel-level computations for orientation
calculations.
Based on the above advantages, we will use a group of PGBF to form a particular class of
fingerprint. Because every class has more than three subclasses, however, there are at least 15
possibilities of PGBF templates to represent the five classes of fingerprint. If a raw fingerprint
image needs to compare all candidate PGBF templates, then the computational cost is high. So
we develop a hierarchical structure to detect the corresponding class.
The proposed approach is shown in Fig. 2. There are three layers filters. The PGBF templates
of the first layer detect the main direction below core point. There are four directions which are 00,
450, 900, and 1350. They are shown in Fig. 3. After the detection for the main direction of core
region, the PGBF templates of the second layer are applied to detect the belonging class
according to the direction of the first layer. If the main direction of the pattern is 00, then there are
two PGBF templates, shown in Fig. 4(a), to detect its corresponding class. The two PGBF
templates are the classifiers of whorl and arch. If the main directions of the pattern are 450, 900,
and 1350, then there are four PGBF templates, shown in Figs. 4(b), 4(c), and 4(d), respectively.
That is, there are at most four PGBF templates corresponding to each direction. The other PGBF
templates need not to check.
Fig. 2. The proposed approach.
Unfortunately, some left whorl and right whorl patterns might be classified into left loop or
right loop. In the third layer, therefore, we use the PGBFs with 450 and 1350, shown in Fig. 5, to
detect right whorl and left whorl, respectively.
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Fig. 3. The first layer PGBF templates.
Class
Detection
Subclass
Detection
Raw
Image
Type
Main
Direction
Detection
