 1
 
奈米圖案化之鐵電薄膜光電特性研究 
Study of optoelectronic characteristics of nano-patterned 
ferroelectric thin films 
執行單位：台灣大學材料科學與工程學系暨研究所 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2216－E－002－022－ 
*E-mail address: hsuenlichen@ccms.ntu.edu.tw
 
中文摘要： 
關鍵字: 奈米圖案化、奈米壓印、鐵電材料 
在本計畫中，我們利用了奈米壓印技
術來製備奈米圖案化之鐵電薄膜。傳統上在
鐵電薄膜上製作圖案，使用直接壓印的技術
需要極大的壓力及高溫下，才能形成奈米圖
案。在此我們改善了直接壓印的缺點，運用
尖銳的模版以及覆蓋緩衝層來將降低直接
壓印所需的高壓力及需要加熱的製程，讓此
方式，可以適用於傳統壓印的機台。在本計
畫中，我們已經成功的使用金屬/鐵電薄膜
的雙層結構，來克服經過壓印後的圖案會回
復平坦的情形。同時，在鐵電薄膜上方覆蓋
一層金屬層，可以當作上電極用於鐵電材料
的應用，並且也可以免除脫膜劑使用。我們
也發現鐵電材料的光電特性在圖案化的過
程中不會發生顯著地改變。 
 
Abstract 
Keywords: nano-patterning, nanoimprint, 
ferroelectric materials 
In this project, we demonstrate an 
imprint method for patterning ferroelectric 
films. Converse with conventional 
nanoimprint lithography, the patterned mold is 
directly imprint in a ferroelectric films or a 
metal / ferroelectric film bi-layer structure. In 
general, direct imprint in a ferroelectric or 
metal film need ultra-high pressure or 
temperature to form patterns. In this project, 
we improve the direct imprint processes by 
using a sharp mold and an underlying soft gel 
film for the reduction of the imprint pressure 
and temperature. The imprint pressure can be 
reduced to be compatible with the 
conventional nanoimprint instrument. We also 
successfully use the metal / ferroelectric 
bi-layer structure to overcome the pattern 
flattened problem in a gel film. The cover 
metal layer can also be the upper conductive 
layer in the ferroelectric application. For 
direct contact the metal film with mold, no 
surfactant should be coated on the surface of 
mold. It also indicates no 
mold-rework-processes are necessary for this 
direct imprint ferroelectric film method. 
 
Introduction 
Ferroelectric films have been 
investigated for applying to sensor, actuator, 
non-volatile memory and optoelectronic 
devices due to their high piezoelectric and 
ferroelectric properties. Pattering varied 
profiles of ferroelectric films with 
sub-micrometer scale is important for the 
micro-electromechanical systems and 
optoelectronic applications. Many kinds of 
ferroelectric films, such as Pb(Zr, Ti)O3 (PZT), 
 3
is Pb1.1(Zr0.52, Ti0.48)O3 and the 10% excess 
of Pb is as the compensation for PZT loss 
during high temperature annealing. . 
Metal-organic decomposition (MOD) 
precursor used in our project was a 
commercial solution (Kojundo, Japan) and 
fabricated by dissolving stoichiometric 
amounts of Pb-ethylhexanoate, 
Ti-isopropoxide, and Zr-n-propoxide in 
ethyl-hexanoic acid and xylene. The PZT 
films were deposited on silicon and fused 
silica substrates by spin coating (500 rpm for 
10 sec., 2000 rpm for 20 sec.) with the 
thickness about 200 nm. After the deposition 
process, the films from MOD-based precursor 
were dried for 5 min at 50℃ to remove 
organic solvent and formed the PZT gel films. 
Silicon molds used in our experiments were 
fabricated by using electron beam lithography 
(Leica, Weprint-200) followed by the reactive 
ion etching process. The high-density-plasma 
reactive-ion-etching (HDP-RIE) system 
(Duratek, Mutiplex Cluster) with inductively 
coupled plasma (ICP) sourced was used to 
fabricate the hexagonal pyramid molds [10, 
11]. The imprint pressure was applied about 
10~20 MPa at room temperature during 
imprint processes. After imprint, the patterned 
gel films were first dried at 120℃ for 30 min 
and pyrolyzed at 450℃ for 30 min in air. 
Finally, the samples were annealed in 
650~800℃ for 60 min in oven to obtain the 
perovskite phase. The structures could be 
identified by low-angle X-ray analysis 
(PANalytical X’Pert Pro, Cu(Kα)). The images 
and surface profiles of patterned metal films 
were observed by scanning electron 
microscope (JEOL, JSM6500F) and atomic 
field microscope (NT-MDT, P-47), 
respectively. The hardness was measured by 
the nano-indenter (CSIRO, UMIS II) with a 
Berkovich type diamond tip. At each test, the 
loading speed was adjusted to keep 30 s 
loading time, 2 s delay at peak load with 1 mN 
and 30 s unloading time. The hardness was 
obtained through dividing the load by the area 
of the residual indents. 
 
Results and discussion 
Figure 2 shows the X-ray diffraction 
spectra of PZT films. The PZT films are not 
formed the complete perovskite phase after 
pyrolyzed process (450 ). When we increase ℃
the temperature, the diffraction peaks of 
perovskite phase of the PZT films are 
appeared. The PZT films begin to be 
crystallized at 600 . At higher temperature, ℃
the PZT films become denser and perform the 
more complete perovskite phase. The better 
ferroelectric properties can be induced from 
the perovskite phase. [12, 13]. 
In order to reduce the requirement of 
imprint pressure, the sharp mold is used to 
increase the tip-pressure. Figure 3 (a) shows 
the silicon mold using in our experiments that 
is fabricated by using the electron beam 
lithography followed by HDP-RIE process. 
Figure 3 (b) shows the cross-section of the 
sharp mold fabricated by the optimized 
etching process. The HDP-RIE system with 
ICP-source has a chamber surrounded by RF 
coils and a RF-bias provide for substrates. For 
the fabrication of sharp mold, we use the 400 
W RF-bias power that would increase 
ion-bombardment on the surface of the mold. 
During the imprint process, the imprint 
pressure is dependent on the relative 
properties between molds and ferroelectric 
thin films. The most important characteristic 
is the hardness of molds and imprinted films. 
Figure 4 shows a comparison of hardness 
between molds and the ferroelectric films after 
 5
bi-layer PZT structure.  
 
Conclusion 
In this project, we demonstrate an 
imprint method for patterning ferroelectric 
films. Converse with conventional 
nanoimprint lithography, the patterned mold is 
directly imprinted in a ferroelectric films or a 
metal / ferroelectric film bi-layer structure. 
Compare with the single-layer PZT gel film, 
the bi-layer PZT profile is much clearer and 
deeper. We also improve the direct imprint 
processes by using a sharp mold or an 
underlying soft gel film for the reduction of 
the imprint pressure under 20MPa at room 
temperature. The imprint pressure can be 
reduced to be compatible with the 
conventional nanoimprint instrument. The 
gold cover layer in bi-layer structure can help 
the PZT gel film to be shaped and overcome 
the pattern flattened problem in a gel film 
during imprint processes. The cover metal 
layer can also be the upper conductive layer in 
the ferroelectric application. For direct contact 
the metal film with mold, no surfactant should 
be coated on the surface of mold. It also 
indicates no mold-rework-processes are 
necessary for this direct imprint ferroelectric 
film method. 
 
Reference 
1. C. S. Ganpule, A. Stanishwevski, Q. Su, S. 
Aggarwal, J. Melnagalis, and R. Ramesh, 
Appl. Phys. Lett. 75, 409 (1999). 
2. M. Alexe, C. Harnagea, D. Hesse, and U. 
Gosele, Appl. Phys. Lett. 79, 242 (2001). 
3. S. Buhlmann, B. Dwir, J. Baborowski, and 
P. Muralt, Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 3195 
(2002). 
4. L. P. Wang, R. Wolf, Q. Zhou, S. 
Trolier-McKinstry, and R. J. Davis, Mater 
Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 657, EE5391 
(2001).  
5. S. Ezhilvalavan and V. D. Samper, Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 86, 072901 (2005). 
6. S. Y. Chou, P. R. Krauss, and P. J. 
Renstrom, Science 272, 85 (1996). 
7. S.Y. Chou, C. Keimel, and J. Gu, Nature 
417 ,835 (2002) 
8. H. Yoshihiko, U. Toshihiko, K. Tomohiro, 
and M. Takashi, SPIE-The International 
Society for Optical Engineering 74, 5220 
(2003). 
9. C. Harnagea, M. Alexe, J. Schilling, J. 
Choi, R. B. Wehrspohn, D. Hesse, and U. 
Gosele, Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 1827 (2003). 
10. M. Notomi, T. Tamamura, T. Kawashima, 
and S. Kawakami, Appl. Phys. Lett. 77, 
4256 (2000). 
11. H. L. Chen, H. F. Lee, W. C. Chao, C. I. 
Hsieh, F. H. Ko, and T. C. Chu, J. Vac. Sci. 
Technol. B 22 (6) , 3359 (2004). 
12. I.N. Lin, K.C. Hsieh, K.Y. Lee, and N.H. 
Tai, J. Eur. Ceram. Soc. 24, 975 (2004). 
13. C.K. Kao, C.H. Tsai and I.N. Lin, Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 83, 3915 (2003). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7
(a)     (b) 
 
Fig. 7 SEM images of Au/PZT structures imprinted by 
hexagonal pyramid mold under (a)14 MPa and 
(b) 20 MPa pressure. 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 8 AFM topography of imprinted Au/PZT structure 
with hexagonal pyramid mold under (a)14 MPa 
and (b) 20 MPa pressure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
