1摘要
由快速衰減通道產生的載波間干擾(ICI)會破壞正交分頻多工(OFDM)訊號的正交性並造成接收器效能嚴重下降。
為設計更佳之 ICI 消除器(Intercarrier Interference Cancellation)，使 OFDMA 系統在快速行動通道下能獲得更好之 time
diversity，提昇鏈路品質。本計畫中，在單入單出(SISO)部份，我們提出二階段的干擾消除器，結合群組式的強制歸零
等化器(Group-based Zero-Forcing, G-ZF)跟複數球狀解碼(complex sphere decoding, CSD)，來處理正交分頻多工嚴重的載
波間干擾。在多入多出(MIMO)部份，我們提出雙邊決策回授等化器(BD-DFE)來消除行動多入多出正交分頻多工
(MIMO-OFDM)系統之載波間干擾效應。這兩個演算法主要都是利用載波間干擾矩陣稀疏的特性，也就是說令我們感興
趣的主對角線子載波的通道能量主要會漏進到鄰近的子載波中。換言之，ICI 效應的有效界限在以中心子載波往外兩邊
有限子載波。首先我們用群組式的強制歸零等化器來取代直接的強制歸零等化器來找初始的估計值，這樣做我們可以避
免做過於龐大的反矩陣。第二，在消去群組中的載波間干擾項後，複數球狀解碼用來做更進一步準確的資料估測。複數
球狀解碼是由最大似然準則跟 QR 分解推導而來。由複雜度的分析看出複數球狀解碼演算法比實數球狀演算法(real-
valued SD)可以減少一半的乘法運算。第三，BD-DFE 由上下兩部份等化器所組成，上半部份使用決策回授等化器得到
暫時之訊號預估值，下半部份則利用雙邊決策回授等化器來消除雙邊的載波間干擾而得到最後訊號偵收。在這樣作法
下，雙邊的載波間干擾會消除更徹底。最後，電腦模擬結果顯示前者的二階段的消除器比直接強制歸零等化器跟直接複
數球狀解碼有更優越的效能。而後者之接收機於移動 OFDM 系統在性能和複雜度間提供了良好的平衡。
Abstract-The intercarrier interference (ICI) resulted from fast
fading channel destroys the orthogonality of the orthogonal
frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) signal and deteriorates
receiver performance.To design a better Intercarrier-Interference-
Cancellation, let OFDMA system get the optimization of time
diversity in the faster communicational channel,and improve the link
quality.In this project,in the part of SISO, we propose two-stage
interference canceller, which combines zero-forcing (ZF) equalizer
with complex sphere decoder in a group-based version, to tackle the
severe ICI on the OFDM. And in the part of MIMO, we propose bi-
directional decision feedback equalizer (BD-DFE) to tackle ICI
problem for the mobile MIMO-OFDM system. Both of the algorithms
are developed in accordance with the sparsity of ICI matrix, in which
the channel power of subcarrier of interest primarily leaks to its
neighboring subcarriers. In other words, it is revealed that the
interference can be effectively bounded in finite double-side
subcarriers centering the desired subcarrier.First, we use the group-
based ZF equalizer in place of direct ZF to obtain initial estimates. In
so doing, prohibitive complexity of large matrix inversion can be
avoided. Second, after removing the out-of-group ICI components,
the complex sphere decoder (CSD) is presented further improving the
accuracy of data estimates. The CSD algorithm is based on
maximum-likelihood criterion and QR decomposition. Complexity
analysis shows that CSD algorithm can saves a half of multipliers
which is required in the real-valued SD. Third, The equalizer consists
of two-part equalizers. The upper part uses DFE to output tentative
decisions. The lower part employs BD-DFE aiming to cancel both
pre- and post-cursor ICI to give a finial symbol estimates.Finally,
simulation results demonstrate the proposed two-stage canceller has
superior performance than those of direct ZF and of direct CS in the
former,and the latter proposed receiver for the mobile OFDM system
provides good tradeoffs between receiver performance and
computational load.
Index Terms –Bi-directional DFE (BD-DFE), intercarrier
interference (ICI), OFDM, sphere decoding, and multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO).
I. INTRODUCTION
Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) is the
technique most widely applied in multipath slow fading
environment because of its simple one-tap frequency domain
equalizer. However, intercarrier interference (ICI) resulted
from fast fading channel destroys the orthogonality of the
OFDM and thus deteriorates receiver performance. In
literatures, number of algorithms have been proposed to
mitigate the effect of ICI [13-14]. The minimum-mean-
square-error (MMSE) and zero-forcing (ZF) algorithms have
been proposed, but these algorithms could not effectively
tackle the high Doppler spread effect. When the number of
subcarriers becomes large, the prohibitive computation load
leads it not feasible to be implemented.
Recently, sphere decoding (SD) algorithm is well studied
in the multiple-input/multiple-output (MIMO) system, because
it provides near maximum-likelihood (ML) performance but
reduces exponential-order complexity into polynomial-order
complexity. In [15], the Schnorr-Euchner strategy is employed
in the SD algorithm, leading to O(lavgN) complexity, where lavg
means the average loops for executing SD algorithm. In [18],
the author first applies the SD algorithm to solve the Doppler-
induced ICI problem on the OFDM. In so doing, frequency
diversity gain can be well taken advantage of. However,
complexity issue still sets the limit to the algorithm on the
OFDM system with larger subcarriers size.
In this project, in the part of SISO, we aim to solve the
ICI problem of OFDM in a group-based version by using
channel sparsity of the ICI matrix. The sparsity means
dominant channel power is only leaking to the neighboring
subcarriers of the interested subcarrier. Aware of this good
property, we divide all the subcarriers into several successive
groups, and propose moderate-complexity two-stage ICI
canceller, which combines grouped zero-forcing (GZF)
equalizer with modified sphere decoder. Simulation results
demonstrate the proposed two-stage canceller has superior
performance than those of direct ZF and of direct SD.
In the part of MIMO, as the mobility of the user
equipment (UE) increases, the Doppler spread due to time
varying channel also increases. Then, it will incurs severe
intercarrier interference (ICI) between subcarriers of the
3H

 
 
Y Fy
FHF X Fw
AX Z
(5)
where HA FHF is called an ICI channel matrix.
Fig. 2. The illustration of ICI channel matrix A.
As for the flat fading channel or no frequency mismatch
between transmitter and receiver, the ICI channel matrix A
becomes a diagonal matrix. However, due to the fast fading
channel, matrix A is not a diagonal matrix. Therefore, each
subcarrier interference causes the channel spread as shown in
Fig. 2. Because the FFT matrix F is unitary, the noise vector
[ [0],..., [ 1]]TZ Z N Z is still white Gaussian noise.
III. GROUP-BASED ICI CANCELLER
In this section, we present two-stage ICI canceller. In the
first stage, we formulate the ICI problem in a group version,
and use group ZF to obtain the initial data estimates. In the
second stage, complex SD (CSD) is presented to improve the
accuracy of estimates.
... ... ...
[0]Y
[ 1]Y N
0e
1eG
0Y
1YG
...
0ˆX
1GˆX
Fig. 3. Block diagram of the two-stage group-based ICI
canceller.
A. Group-based Zero-Forcing (GZF) Algorithm
Noticing that ICI matrix inherits sparsity property, we
rewrite (5) in a group version. We divide the received data
vector Y of N-by-1 by G groups,
nY, for n=0, 1,…, G-1. Thus,
every group consists M=N/G data samples. Collecting
nY =
[Y(nM), Y(nM+1),…, Y(nM+M-1)] where Y(n) is the nth
element of Y, we rewrite the received data model in the group
version as
, 0, 1, , 1,n n n n G   Y A X Z  (6)
where ( : -1,1: )n nM nM M N A A denotes the submatrix
of A, and Zn denotes the corresponding noise vector for the n-
th group. The notion A(i1:i2, j1:j2) stands for the rectangular
region of A of two corner points (i1, j1) and (i2, j2). Next,
we let An=A(nM:nM+M-1, nM:nM+M-1) denotes the diagonal
block matrix of the nth group. Thus, (13) is rewritten as
, 0, 1, , 1.n n n n n n G    Y A X W Z  (7)
where Xn=[X(nM), X(nM+1),…, X(nM+M-1)], and Wn denotes
the ICI effect on the Xn. Then, the GZF vector for detecting Xn
is calculated by
1( )GZF H Hn n n n
C A A A . (8)
Finally, the initial data estimates is obtained by =nX
( )GZFn nQ C Y , where ( )Q denotes decision device.
B. The GZF Combined with Complex Sphere Decoding
After the first-stage data estimates by the GZF, we then
remove the out-of-group matrix effect on Xn, obtaining Yn. If
the total out-out-group ICI is removed, Yn is expressed by
, 0, 1, , 1.n n n n n G   Y A X Z  (9)
Next, the complex sphere decoding algorithm is employed to
improve the estimation accuracy of information data. The
algorithm is performed in the complex domain. First, note that
the complex sphere decoding (CSD) algorithm is derived in
the maximum-likelihood (ML) sense, and thus problem
formulation for detecting
nX is stated as follows
2ˆ arg min
n
n n n n
S
 
X
X Y A X (10)
where S denotes the set composed signal constellation Xn. In
the complex sphere decoding algorithm, the searching radius
will be limited to reduce complexity, i.e.,
2 2
n n n  Y A X for  is the sphere decoding radius. The
algorithm becomes ML detection when = ∞. Now, to
perform the SD algorithm more effectively, QR decomposition
is taken on the ICI matrix, thus yielding
n n nA Q R (11)
where Qn and Rn are orthogonal matrix and upper triangular
matrix [17]. Next, let H
n n nU Q Y , where
H stands for
Hermitian operation, and using the Schnorr-Euchner based
searching algorithm [15] to find the most probability closest
lattice point. We then define
1 GZF
n n n n n
 e R U C Y , (12)
In so doing, equation (17) can be equal to
22
2
2
( )
( ) ( )
H H
n n n n n n n n n
n n n
n n n
H H
n n n n n n
  
 
 
  
Y A X Q Y Q Q R X
U R X
R e X
e X R R e X
(13)
and then let 1
n
R be two parts
5Finally, we combine two part estimated signal as
[ˆ ] sgn{ [ ]} sgn{ [ ]}R In n nX m X m j X m    (26)
where sgn{x} denotes signum function, which returns -1 if x0
and 1 if x>0.
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS IN THE PART OF SISO-OFDM
A. Performance Evaluation
In this section, we investigate the performance of the
proposed ICI canceller on the OFDM system over the fast
fading channels. The simulation parameters are set as follows.
We study the OFDM system employing QPSK signal as data
symbol, and having N=256 subcarriers. The carrier frequency
and the CP length are set to fc=2.4 GHz and N/8, respectively.
The doubly selective channel used in the simulation is
modeled as a six-tap exponential-decayed distribution with
Jakes spectrum. We set the normalized Doppler frequency, i.e.,
the product of maximum Doppler spread (fd) and OFDM
symbol duration (T), fdT, to be 0.1. Perfect channel estimation
is assumed.
Fig. 5 compares the performance of four ICI cancellers
including the proposed group-based ICI canceller, direct
complex sphere decoder, i.e., the case of G=1, direct zero-
forcing equalizer, and real-valued sphere decoder(RSD). In the
simulation, the subcarriers of the OFDM are divided into
G=32 groups for the group-based canceller, and thus every
group consists M=8 received data samples. From the figure, it
can be seen that the proposed two-stage canceller with CSD is
obviously better than the other two ICI cancellers. The CSD is
close to RSD algorithm.
To understand the effect of the group number on the
proposed ICI canceller, Fig. 6 plots the error performance
simulated under G={8, 16, 32}. The figure shows the better
performance is achieved as the group size M becomes smaller.
This is because noise enhancement of the GZF with larger
group number becomes more severe, thus resulting in “poor”
initial estimates in the first stage and introducing more
background noise due to mismatched cancelling. In the figure,
the performance of ZF detection under no ICI effect is also
revealed for comparison.
Fig. 5. Performance comparisons between different ICI
cancellers simulated under the normalized Doppler frequency
of fdT=0.1.
Fig. 6. Performance comparisons of the proposed ICI
canceller for M={8, 16, 32}. Simulation is performed under
the normalized Doppler frequency of fdT=0.1.
B. Complexity Comparison
Table 1 lists the computing complexity comparison with
four different ICI cancellers, including the proposed group-
based ICI, direct CSD, direct real-valued SD (RSD), and direct
ZF algorithms. The table consists two parts for complexity
analysis, which represents the requirements of real-valued
multiplications. First, the initialization part provides the QR
decomposition or zero-forcing algorithm for obtaining the
initial data estimates. Because the ZF requires matrix
inversion, its complexity is equal to QR decomposition.
Assume both of them use Gauss-elimination method, thus
having complexityΟ(N3) [19]. Besides, note that one complex
multiplication requires four real-valued multiplications. This
factor also reflects in rows one, two, and four of the
initialization part. For direct RSD, it needs 2N-dimneison QR
decomposition [18]. To see the complexity reduction of the
proposed algorithm, we set N=256, and G=32, for example. In
such a case, the complexity reduction of proposed algorithm
achieves 1,024 as compared to direct CSD, and direct ZF. The
reduction becomes 2,048 as compared to direct RSD.
Second, the recursion part searches the final data symbols by
using SD algorithm. The sphere decoding complexity leads to
O(lavgN), where lavg means the average loops for executing SD
algorithm. This is because the primary complexity in the SD
algorithm is scalar divider for calculating one data symbol
[18]. According to simulation results, lavg is less than N. We let
lavg,1 and lavg,2 be the average loops for CSD, and RSD,
respectively. In this part, although the complexity of CSD is
slightly larger than that of the RSD, the complexity increase
almost can be ignored as compared to the initialization part.
Finally, we conclude that our proposed group-based ICI
canceller achieves better performance but with lower
complexity than others.
7where 1 2( ) [ ( ), ( ), , ( )]T
T
Nm X m X m X mX  represents the
signal vector for all transmitted antenna of mth subcarrier, and
W(n) is corresponding noise vector to Y(n) with size NR×1.
The MIMO channel matrix H(n,m) of size NR×NT is given by
1,1 1,
,1 ,
( , ) ( , )
( , )
( , ) ( , )
T
R R T
N
N N N
H n m H n m
n m
H n m H n m
 
  
  
H

  

, (33)
where Hi,j(n,m) is the (n,m)th element of channel matrix Hi,j,
for m, n0, 1, …,N-1.
VI. BI-DIRECTIONAL DECISION-FEEDBACK EQUALIZATION
(BD-DFE) FOR ICI CANCELLATION
In this section, we propose bi-directional decision-feedback
equalization (BD-DFE) algorithm for ICI cancellation of the
MIMO-OFDM system. The equalization consists of two-level
detection structure, as shown in Fig. 8. The upper part uses
MIMO-DFE to pass tentative decisions to the lower part. The
lower part exploits the MIMO-BD-DFE to cancel doubly sided
ICI to give a final refined symbol estimates.
XD

YD 
DZ
FU
Xˆ
BU

( )Q 
( )Q 
B L

BL

FL
X
1Z
1Z
XˆD

X D

Fig. 8. The BD-DFE receiver for the MIMO-OFDM system.
A. The MIMO-DFE Algorithm
In this subsection, we derive the MIMO-DFE algorithm in
the minimum mean-square-error sense, because DFE is a
structure having good tradeoff between performance and
complexity. It is noted that the ICI matrix is sparse, and thus
channel matrix H(n,m) can be nominally regarded as zero
matrix, if | |cirm n D  . The notation | |cir is defined as the
absolute distance of the sequence ring. The ring starts at
number 0 and ends at number N-1, and 0 and N-1 are
connected each other. Thus, the distance between 0 and N-1 is
one, and the distance gives two for the (0, N-2) pair.
Therefore, the transmitted data block X(n) due to channel
sparsity affects 2D+1 received data vectors from Y(n-D)N to
Y(n+D)N, in which ()N denotes modulo-N operation. In other
words, it mainly requires signal vectors from Y(n-D)N to
Y(n+D)N for detecting X(n). Now, we let YD(n)=[Y
T(n+D)N …
YT(n) … YT(n-D)N]T be the received data sequence, and it is
expressed by
( ) ( ) ( )D n D Dn n n Y H X W , (35)
where Hn is the channel matrix of the observation window,
given in (34), XD(n)= [X
T(n+2D)N … XT(n) … XT(n-2D)N]T is
transmitted data vector, and WD(n) is noise vector
corresponding to YD(n). Let ( ) [ ( -1)
T
D Nn nX X


( - 2 ) ]T TNn DX be the feedback data sequence in which correct
decisions are made. Let FU(n) and ( )U nB

be the feedforward
filter (FFF) coefficients matrix and feedback filter (FBF)
coefficients matrix for the upper-part MIMO-DFE,
respectively, where the notation  means post-cursor
direction. The MMSE problem formulation for the MIMO-
DFE is thus stated as follows. Find the optimal FU(n) and
( )U nB

such that the MSE cost function
  2| ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) |H HU D U DJ Tr E n n n n n  F Y B X X  (36)
is minimized, in which Tr{} is the trace of the matrix. Next,
by vector differentiating J with * ( )U nF and
* ( )U nB

, respect-
tively, and letting the results to be zero vector 0, i.e.,
* ( )U
J
n
 

0
F
, and
* ( )U
J
n
 

0
B
 ,
the FFF’s and FBF’s coefficients matrix are found as
 12, , (2 1)( ) RHU U n U n D N nn   F H H I u , (37)
and
( ) ( )H HU U nn nB F H
 
, (38)
where  , 1: (2 1) ,1 : (2 1)U n n R TD N D N  H H is submatrix
of Hn. The notation A(i1:i2, j1:j2) stands for the rectangular
region of A determined by two diagonal points (i1, j1) and
(i2, j2). The post-cursor channel matrix is given by
(2 1) ( 4 1)
(( ) , ( 2 ) ) (( ) , ) (( ) , ( 2 ) )
( , ( 2 ) ) ( , ) ( , ( 2 ) )
(( ) , ( 2 ) ) (( ) , ) (( ) , ( 2 ) )
R T
N N N N N
n N N
N N N N N N D N D
n D n D n D n n D n D
n n D n n n n D
n D n D n D n n D n D   
     
 
 
   
 
 
      
H H H
H H H H
H H H
 
  
 
  
 
(34)
9Fig. 8. BER performance comparisons between different ICI
cancellers simulated under the normalized Doppler frequency
of fd=0.02.
Fig. 9. BER performance comparisons between different ICI
cancellers simulated under the normalized Doppler frequency
of fd=0.05.
Fig. 10. BER performance comparisons between different ICI
cancellers simulated under the normalized Doppler frequency
of fd=0.1.
Fig. 11. BER Performance comparisons between different
D={1, 2, 3}, simulated under the normalized Doppler
frequency of fd=0.05.
TABLE 2 Complexity Comparison Between the MIMO-BD-DFE,
FIR-MMSE-FEQ[1] and MMSE-DFE[4] Cancellers, where N = 64 ,
NT =NR= 2, D=1, and Q=NT(2D+1) = 6.
Canceller Complexity
MIMO-BD-DFE Ο(NR NQ3)= 27648
FIR-MMSE-FEQ[1] Ο(NR NQ3)= 27648
MMSE-DFE[4] Ο(NR QN2)= 49152
VIII. CONCLUSIONS
In this project, we discuss both of OFDM systems. In the
part of SISO, we have proposed a reduced-complexity
algorithm for ICI mitigation, which consists two-stage
canceller in a group version. The first-stage canceller aims to
remove the out-of-group ICI effect, and the second-stage
canceller refines the initial data by the sphere decoding
algorithm. Simulation results demonstrate the proposed ICI
canceller achieves better performance than those of direct ZF
and of direct CSD. This is because the GZF has less noise
enhancement than the other ones. Complexity analysis also
indicates that the proposed algorithm has significant
complexity reduction than both of direct ZF and direct ZF.
And, in the part of MIMO, we have studied the bi-directional
ICI canceller for the MIMO-OFDM system over multipath
time-varying channels. The proposed MIMO-BD-DFE
canceller is designed under the sparse property of ICI channel
matrix. The canceller consists of two-part equalizers. The
upper part exploits MIMO-DFE to give the output tentative
decisions. The lower part employs MIMO-BD-DFE aiming to
cancel both pre- and post-cursor ICI to output a finial symbol
estimates. In so doing, doubly sided ICI can be removed more
completely. Simulation results show that our proposed
receiver for the mobile OFDM system provides good tradeoffs
between receiver performance and computational load. Finally,
we conclude both of the receivers are promising candidate for
multipath fast-fading OFDM and the mobile MIMO-OFDM
systems.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/16
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 無線OFDMA系統下載波間干擾消除與互助式分集技術之研究
計畫主持人: 鍾日龍
計畫編號: 98-2218-E-033-007- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
研討會論文 3 2 150% 
1. 吾人針對無線 OFDMA
系統下載波間干擾消除技
術，於計畫中分別提出結
合球狀偵測之群組式強制
歸零等化器及提出適用
MIMO 系統下之雙向決策
迴授等化器以更完全雙向
載波間干擾。研究成果分
別 發 表 於 國 際 會 議
IMECS-2010( 香 港 ), 及
ISITA-2010(台灣)。 
2. 此外，針對第二年計畫
題目，吾人已研究多天
線、多中繼之互助式 OFDM
系統，研究成果發表於國
際 會 議
IMECS-ISITA-2010( 台
灣)。 
3. 發表之會議論文表列
如下： 
[1]R. L. Chung, C. W. 
Chang, and J. K. 
Hwang, ＇Bidirectional 
Decision Feedback 
Equalization for Mobile 
MIMO-OFDM Systems,＇ in 
Proc. IEEE ISITA (ISITA 
2010), Taiwan, Oct. 
18-21, 2010. (EI) 
[2]R. L. Chung, and S. 
H. Chang, ＇Cooperative 
MMSE OFDM Receiver for 
Half-Duplex and 
Multiple-Relays 
System＇, in Proc. IEEE 
ISITA (ISITA 2010), 
Taiwan, Oct. 18-21, 
2010. (EI) 
[3]R. L. Chung, C. H. 
Chen, and H. T. 
Chen, ＇Group-Based ICI 
Canceller Combined with 
Complex Sphere Decoding 
for Fast-Fading OFDM 
System,＇ in Proc. 
IAENG International 
Conference on the 
International 
MultiConference of 
Engineers and Computer 
Scientists (IMECS 
2010), Hong Kong, Mar. 
 
