微處理器數位切換之混合能源驅動電子式安定器
Electronic Ballasts Driven by Hybrid Source Using
Microprocessor-Controlled Digital Switching
Technique
Abstract—A novel microprocessor-controlled electronic ballast
with a class-E resonant inverter for illumination applications is
employed to link a photovoltaic (PV)-powered battery energy
storage system (BESS) as a main power source with a utility ac
power as a complementary source. The proposed strategy aims to
control power flow either from the PV-powered BESS or from
the utility ac power line to the electronic ballast. This novel
design has lower loss, easier control, and higher efficiency than
the traditional photovoltaic panel has. A 27W fluorescent lamp is
ignited by electronic ballast with a class-E topology to validate
the proposed theoretical analyses. When the electronic ballast is
driven by the PV-powered BESS and the utility ac power, overall
efficiency of the proposed system is 94.2% and 91.1%,
respectively. Experimental results demonstrate the functionality
of the overall system, indicating that it is a good solution for
several hybrid source applications.
Keywords-electronic ballast; hybrid source; microprocerror; battery
energy storage system; class-E resonant inverter.
I. INTRODUCTION
Giving growing public concern over the exhaustion of fossil
fuel reserves and pollution problems incurred by conventional
power generation, renewable energy sources such as solar,
wind, micro-hydraulic, biomass, geothermal, hydrogen, and
tidal are extensively adopted in industrial, commercial and
military applications [1-6]. Moreover, fluctuations and
increases in oil prices have negatively impacted the world
economy, particularly economies in developing countries.
Photovoltaic (PV) energy as an alternative energy source has
been widely investigated as it is pollution-free, abundant and
widely available. The PV energy applications can be divided
into grid-connection systems and stand-alone systems. In
grid-connection systems, an inverter stage plays an important
role as the interface device between the PV power generation
system and the utility. To connect to a utility, an inverter stage
must be operated in grid-connection mode. Notably, an
inverter stage can synchronize with utility ac sources.
Additionally, inverters must be operated in switching mode
when connected to a grid, and the current transferred onto a
grid must be regulated to follow the reference signal. At the
same time, active power switches of the inverter must be
driven properly to generate a series of sinusoidal pulse width
modulation (SPWM) waveforms. Then, through a LC low-
pass filter, this inverter can generate sinusoidal voltage along
with the utility to supply power to loads [7,8]. However, such
PV systems are typically idle at night or during cloudy days.
However, system components have not been used optimally.
Conversely, traditional stand-alone systems have advantages of
a simple system configuration and control scheme. To draw
electrical power from PV arrays and store excess energy, a
BESS is required. When output of a PV power generation
system is insufficient, a BESS can provide backup energy; that
is, a BESS works as an energy buffer. Furthermore, by using
power electronic converters, stand-alone operation can be
achieved easily and load-independent, high-quality voltage
can be generated. Utilizing PV electricity to drive electronic
ballasts may be one of the most appropriate applications of PV
arrays with a BESS. Consequently, stand-alone systems have
become the focus of research investigating PV-powered
lighting applications.
The conventionally stand-alone PV-powered BESS for
lighting applications has two power processing stagesan
inverter stage and bridge rectifier stage. The inverter stage
provides a low-frequency ac source of 50 or 60Hz, which is
transferred to the downstream load, and the bridge rectifier
stage generates a dc voltage for the electronic ballast which
ignites a lamp and stabilizes lamp current during steady-state
operation. However, the two-stage approach is costly, and
reduces system reliability and efficiency, as energy is
converted twice (Fig. 1). Moreover, this approach requires
numerous components, thereby increasing final cost of the
electronic lighting system and reducing system energy
conversion efficiency.
BESS
DC-DC
converter
stage
Control
circuit
inV
pv
array
Photovoltaic
i
+
_
VBA
+
_
stage
Inverter stage
DC-AC Low-pass
filter
ac output
1
2
+
_
Switching
elements
ac output
Resonant
tank
Lamp
Trigger
signals
rectifier
ac input
dc
Electronic ballast
Rectifier stage
Bridge
1
2
Fig. 1. Block diagram of a traditional PV-powered battery system for storing
energy for lighting applications
(HPF) and high efficiency. The proposed system also
requires a highly efficient illumination device such as a
fluorescent lamp. To implement the two different energy
control schemes and control the relay for switching operation
modes, the proposed system has a microprocessor. Figure 4
shows a simplified block diagram of electronic ballast driven
by using the microprocessor-controlled digital switching
technique. In the proposed hybrid sources lighting system,
circuit components must be designed careful ly to
reduce cost and improve reliability and efficiency. One
benefit of the proposed topology of the electronic ballast is
that it only requires one power processing stage, which makes
it highly efficient, low-cost, reliable and simple. Hence, this
study applies the power electronic load to a fluorescent lamp
lighting system. The following sections present a detailed
analysis and elucidate the function of the PV-powered
electronic ballast.
Cdc
Vrec
iin
Lp
Ip
D1
D2
LE
Idc
D3
Vgs
D4
Ls Cs
CfCpCE
irVdc
is
S
BESS
+
—
Vpv
RLY2
2-1
RLY 2
2- 2
1
Dv
PIC16F690
VBA
Trigger signal
Vgs RLY1 RLY2
Charger
Vp
v
VBA
Voltage sensor circuit Driver circuit of relays
Lamp
vs
RLY icE
Fig. 3. Typical configuration of proposed hybrid-source-powered lighting
system with a digital switching technique
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II describes the operating principle of electronic ballast with a
class-E resonant inverter. Section III presents assumptions in
analysis and the analytic results for the single-stage high-
power-factor electronic ballast for fluorescent lamps. Section
IV presents applications of the proposed electronic ballasts
driven by a hybrid source using a microprocessor-controlled
digital switching technique. The most important study results
are also given in this section. Conclusions are presented in
Section V.
PFC
Ballast
Charge
Control P
– Cell
Solar Panel
BESS
ON/OFF
ON/OFF
I
V
PWM
Utility ac line
Isolating
stage
dc
dc 
Fig. 4. Simplified block diagram of electronic ballast driven by using the
microprocessor-controlled digital switching technique
II. OPERATING PRINCIPLE OF ELECTRONIC BALLAT
WITH CLASS-E RESONANT INVERTER
Unlike traditional ballast (Fig.1), this electronic ballast,
which is driven by dc voltage, does not require an inverter
stage with a large and heavy transformer with a filter circuit.
Figure 5 schematically shows the circuit in the proposed
single-switch electronic ballast for solar energy applications.
The input terminal has a choke inductor LE, which is generally
large for the small ripple at the input dc current. The electronic
ballast uses a class-E ZVS load resonant inverter to drive the
fluorescent lamp. The diode D provides a path for the resonant
current of the class-E ZVS resonant inverter. Metal–oxide–
semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs) are
preferred because their body diodes can be used as antiparallel
diodes for operation beyond resonance. The fluorescent lamp
is connected in parallel with a preheating capacitor Cf, which
is in series with an resonant inductor Ls and a resonant
capacitor Cs. The capacitor Cf provides a sufficiently high
ignition voltage to the lamp during the initial start-up and then
appropriate filament heating at a steady state. A resonant
energy tanks, Ls, and Cs, which are in series with the lamp
network, comprise the load resonant circuit of the class-E ZVS
resonant inverter. The load resonant circuit of the class-E
resonant inverter is formed by the fluorescent lamp and
reactive components Ls, Cs Cp, and Cf In this investigation,
the dc voltage Vdc is obtained from the BESS, which is fed by
a PV array.
+
_
Vdc is
SVgs
Idc
LE
D
CE
ir
Ls Cs
Cp Cf
Lamp
iCE
vCE
+
_
Fig. 5. Electronic ballast powered by a BESS
where Im is amplitude and is the initial phase angle of load
current ir.
)sin()(  tIti mr (3)
The switch is closed and capacitance voltage, vcE(t), is 0,
and current through the capacitor, icE(t), is 0. Equation (4)
derives the power switch current is(t) in this time interval.
)()( tiIti rdcs  (4)
The switch current, is, is comprised of source current and
load current ir. The active switch is turned off at zero voltage.
When the active power switch, S, is off, its current is
immediately diverted to the capacitor CE.
+
_
Vdc is
SVgs
Idc
E
D
CE
ir
iCE
vCE
+
_
L
Fig. 9. Equivalent circuit of Mode I
Mode II (st1<st<st2):
In Mode II, the active power switch S is off. Figure 10
shows the equivalent circuit. The capacitor current icE(t) is
then the difference between Idc and ir. The voltage across the
shunt capacitor is determined by Eq. (5).
  dtI
C
tv dc
E
c 
2
1
)(        dtIm 2coscos (5)
Substituting the condition of icE(2)=0 into Eq. (5) yields
the relationship among Idc, Im, d and
 
  

cos2cos
12


d
d
II dcm (6)
The initial phase angleis acquired by substituting is(2)=0
and Eq. (6) into Eq. (4).
 
   




 
dd
d


2sin12
12cos
tan 1 (7)
In steady-state operation, mean voltage is zero across the
inductor. Mean capacitor voltage, vcE, equals input voltage Vs.
  tdtvV Ecs 


2
02
1
       
    






dd
dddd
C
I
E
dc


 sintan
sincos11 (8)
+
_
Vdc is
SVgs
Idc
E
D
CE
ir
iCE
vCE
+
_
L
Fig. 10. Equivalent circuit of Mode II
Mode III (st2<st<):
Mode III exists only when the switch voltage decreases to
zero with a finite negative slope. The equivalent circuit of
Mode III is similar to that of Mode I, except for initial
conditions. The load resonant current falls to zero at the end of
this mode. However, when circuit parameters are such that
switch voltage decreases to zero with a zero slope, the diode D
and this mode do not exist.
To ensure ZVS operation of the class-E resonant inverter,
the circuit parameters must satisfy the following relationships
[18]:
2
22
22
)1(
)(sin)(sin2
s
lamp
eq VPd
dd
R



 (9)
   
)1(
sincos1)(2sin)sin(
2 dR
ddddd
C
eq
E 


 (10)
              
    ddsosddd
ddddddR
L eqs 

sin)1()(2sin)sin(2
2sin12cos2cos2coscos2112 22



(11)
III. SINGLE-STAGE HIGH-POWEER-FACTOR ELECTRONIC
BALLAST FOR FLUORESCENT LAMPS
Conventionally, when high-frequency electronic ballasts
consume ac power from a utility, a diode-bridge rectifier with
a bulk electrolytic capacitor is often utilized to convert ac
voltage into smoothed dc-link voltage for high-frequency
electronic ballasts. Such a rectifier circuit inevitably draws an
input current with narrow pulses, which is notorious for
having a very poor power factor and serious harmonic
distortion. The power factor (PF) is typically 0.6 and total
harmonic distortion (THD) can exceed 100%. The widespread
use of high-frequency electronic ballasts for fluorescent lamps
is a significant source of power pollution. However, a high
power factor, including reductions in the rms line current and
line current harmonic distortion, can cause a utility to increase
its efficiency and reduce pollution. Therefore, high-frequency
electronic ballast requires a filter circuit.
The most common solution for reducing input current
harmonic distortion and improving the power factor of the
utility ac source is to add a second power processing stage,
Consequently, a high power factor of the utility ac line can be
acquired.
t
pi ( t )
ip, peak( t )
Vgs
....
.... ....
....
Iin, avg( t )
Fig. 12. Buck-boost inductor current
waveformAbbreviations and Acronyms
IV. EXPERIMENT RESULTS
The proposed system (Fig.3) connects two different sources
and two power relays. A programmable intelligent computer
(PIC) microprocessor senses and controls the operation of
peripheral interface devices such as the terminal voltage of the
BESS, relay operational status, pulse-width-modulated (PWM)
signal generation, and duty cycle control. Furthermore, the
computer microprocessor controls energy management,
including battery charging/discharging. The entire control
system (Fig. 3) optimizes the energy performance of the
hybrid system based on system state information, the BESS
and the utility ac line. If the BESS operates at an output power
condition (when providing energy to the electronic ballast, the
terminal voltage of the BESS gradually declines), the
microprocessor system only supervises the BESS policy of the
hybrid source system. Once the terminal voltage of the BESS
drops to the preset value, the utility ac line source supplies
power to the single-stage high-power-factor electronic ballast.
The microprocessor-controlled system controls energy
management of the BESS energy system and output power of
the utility ac line source system.
To verify the predicted operational principles and theoretical
analysis of the proposed hybrid-source-powered lighting
system with microprocessor-controlled digital switching
technique, electronic ballast is designed and built to drive a
27W fluorescent lamp. The input voltage from the utility ac
line is a sinusoidal wave of 110Vrms at 60Hz. To sustain a
volt-second balance and avoid a spike current occurring at the
instant of relay transition, the duty cycle of the active power
switch must correspondingly adjust to accommodate the
voltage across the BESS. The selected switching frequency for
this prototype is set at 36.6 kHz. The single-stage high-power-
factor electronic ballast operates with a duty cycle of 0.35 to
generate a dc output voltage of 135V across a dc-link capacitor.
Table 1 lists circuit parameters. Figure 13 shows the steady-
state waveforms of the lamp voltage and lamp current of the
electronic ballast, which is directly driven by the PV-powered
BESS. The crest factor (CF) of the lamp current equals 1.43.
Figure 14 shows the measured experimental waveforms of the
experiment circuit, which are quite consistent with predicted
results. Notably, the active power switch and the shunt
capacitor CE were also softly commutated under zero-voltage-
switching conditions. Hence, the switching losses of this novel
electronic ballast are near zero. Moreover, the experimentally
obtained efficiency of the electronic ballast by the PV-
powered BESS equals 94.21%. When the terminal voltage of
BESS decreases to 105V, the relays are excited by the
microprocessor and the utility ac line supplies power to the
electronic ballast with a class-E topology. Therefore, single-
stage high-power-factor electronic ballast is achieved. Figure
15 shows the transient response of lamp voltage and current
waveforms of the electronic ballast during the switching
period from the PV-powered BESS to the utility ac line.
Transition time Tt=3.4ms is obtained. The results indicate that
power transfer is very smooth and fast during the transfer
period. The proposed ballast yields very good performance for
lamp voltage and lamp current waveforms, which are similar
to sinusoidal waveforms due to load characteristics of the
class-E resonant inverter. Figure 16 shows the measured
waveforms of the circuit components of the electronic ballast,
which is driven by the utility ac line. Figure 17 shows the
measured input line voltage and current waveforms when the
PFC circuit is supplied by an input voltage of 110V. At this
point in operation, the electronic ballast achieves a high power
factor exceeding 0.998 and a low total harmonic distortion of
< 4.28%. The proposed system yields an efficiency of about
92.1% at the full load. This is about 2.1% lower than that when
the electronic ballast is driven by a BESS as a rectifier stage
and PFC. Figure 18 compares the requirements of international
electrotechnical commission (IEC) 61000-3-2 Class C
standard and measured input-current harmonics, which meets
the IEC specifications.
Table 1 Circuit parameters
DC-link Capacitor Cdc 200F
Inductor Lp 0.68mH
Inductor LE 10mH
Inductor Ls 1.97mH
Capacitor CE 9.35nF
Capacitor Cs 32.8nF
Capacitor Cp 6.5nF
Capacitor Cf 12nF
vlamp
ilamp
vlamp:100V/div, ilamp:0.5A/div,Time:10μs/div
Fig. 13. The measured waveforms of lamp voltage and lamp current
active switches and control circuits. When the active power
switch is softly switched at zero voltage and DCM, switching
losses can be eliminated completely leading to high efficiency.
Moreover, power losses are also be reduced by using few
circuit components. Consequently, ballast efficiency is as high
as 92.1%. Theoretical analysis and experimental results prove
that a near-unity power factor and very low THD can be
achieved. The proposed electronic ballast with microprocessor-
controlled digital switching is a good solution for hybrid-
source applications.
REFERENCES
[1] W. Wongsaichua, W. J. Lee, S. Oraintara, C. Kwan, F. Zhang,
“Integrated High-Speed Intelligent Utility Tie Unit for
Disbursed/Renewable Generation Facilities,” IEEE Transactions on
Industry Applications, Vol. 41, No. 2, March/April 2005, pp. 507-513.
[2] J. M. Carrasco, L. G. Franquelo, J. T. Bialasiewicz, E. Galvan, R. C. P.
Guisado, Ma. A. M. Prats,J. I. Leon, N. Moreno-Alfonso, “Power-
Electronic Systems for the Grid Integration of Renewable Energy
Sources: A Survey”IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, Vol.
53, No. 4, June 2006, pp. 1002-1016.
[3] A. Canova, L. Giaccone, F. Spertino,M. Tartaglia, “Electrical Impact of
Photovoltaic Plant in Distributed Network,” IEEE Transactions on
Industry Applications, Vol. 45, No. 1, January/February 2009, pp. 341-
347.
[4] C. Yang,K. M. Smedley, “One-Cycle-Controlled Three-Phase Grid-
Connected Inverters and Their Parallel Operation,”IEEE Transactions
on Industry Applications, Vol. 44, No. 2, March/April 2008, pp. 663-671.
[5] S. Alepuz, S. Busquets-Monge, J. Bordonau, J. Gago, D. Gonzalez, J.
Balcels, “Interfacing Renewable Energy Sources to the Utility Grid
Using a Three-Level Inverter,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial
Electronics, Vol. 53, No. 5, October 2006, pp. 1504-1511.
[6] J. B.Cardell, and S. R. Connors, “Wind Power in New England:
Modeling and Analysis of Nondispatchable Renewable Energy
Technologies,” IEEE Transactions onPower Systems, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp.
710-715, May 1998
[7] S. B. Kjaer, J. K. Pedersen, F. Blaabjerg, “A Review of Single-Phase
Grid-Connected Inverters for Photovoltaic Modules,” IEEE Transactions
on Industry Applications, Vol. 41, No. 5, September/October 2005, pp.
1292-1306.
[8] C. A. Hernandez-Aramburo, T. C. Green, N. Mugniot, “Fuel
consumption minimization of a microgrid,” IEEE Transactions on
Industry Applications, Vol. 41, No. 3, May/June 2005, pp. 673-681.
[9] S. Ben-Yaakov, M. Shvartsas, S. Glozman, “Statics and Dynamics of
Fluorescent Lamps Operating at High Frequency: Modeling and
Simulation,” IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, Vol. 38, No.
6, November/December 2002, pp. 1486-1492.
[10] S. Glozman, S. Ben-Yaakov, S, “Dynamic Interaction Analysis of HF
Ballasts and Fluorescent Lamps Based on Envelope Simulation,” IEEE
Transactions on Industry Applications, Vol. 37, No. 5,
September/October 2001, pp. 1531-1536.
[11] F. J. F. Martin, C. B. Viejo, J. C. A. Anton, M. A. P. Gacia, M. Rico-
Secades, and J. M. Alonso, “Analysis and Design of a High Power 
Factor, Single-Stage Electronic Ballast for High-Intensity Discharge
Lamps,” IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Vol. 18, No. 2, 
March 2003, pp. 558-569.
[12] M. Brumatti, M. A. Co, D. S. L. Simonetti and J. L. F. Jose, “Single
Stage Self-Oscillating HPF Electronic Ballast,”IEEE Transactions on
Industry Applications, Vol. 41, No. 3, May/June 2005, pp. 558-569.
[13] K. Jirasereeamornkul, M. K. Kazimierczuk, I. Boonyaroonate, and K.
Chamnongthai, “Single-Stage Electronic Ballast with Class-E Rectifier
as Power-Factor Corrector,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and
Systems-I: Regular Papers, Vol. 53, No. 1, January 2006, pp. 139-148.
[14] Y. C. Chuang, and H. L. Cheng, “Single-Stage Single-Switch High-
Power-Factor Electronic Ballast for Fluorescent Lamps,” IEEE
Transactions on Industry Applications, Vol. 43, No. 6,
November/December 2007, pp. 1434-1440.
[15] Y. C. Chuang, Chin-Sien Moo, Hsien-Wen Chen, and Tsai-Fu Lin, “A
Novel Single-Stage High-Power-Factor Electronic Ballast with Boost
Topology for Multiple Fluorescent Lamps,” IEEE Transactions on
Industry Applications, Vol. 45, No. 1, January/February 2009, pp. 323-
331.
[16] O. Briat, J. M. Vinassa,W. Lajnef, S. Azzopardi, E. Woirgard,“Principle,
Design and Experimental Validation of a Flywheel-Battery Hybrid
Source for Heavy-Duty Electric Vehicles,” IET Electric Power
Applications, Vol. 1, No. 5, September 2007, pp. 665-674.
[17] A. Barrado, R. Vazquez, E. Olias, A. Lazaro,J. Pleite, “Theoretical
Study and Implementation of a Fast Transient Response Hybrid Power
Supply,” IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, Vol. 19, No. 4, July
2004, pp. 1003-1009.
[18] M. K. Kazimierczuk and D. Czarkowski, “Resonant Power Converters,” 
Wiley, New York, 1995.
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：莊英俊 計畫編號：98-2221-E-168-048- 
計畫名稱：微處理器數位切換之混合能源驅動電子式安定器 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
