況，區劃模式模擬之實用效果被高度評價。本研究亦嘗試以區劃模式為建築火災
模式建構之基礎。 
 
三、簡易模型確立 
1. 守恆式 
本模式之建立以考量火災全盛期具形成火災延燒行為作為模式建置基礎，如
圖2所示。在區劃中因火災造成可燃物熱分解氣體，透過開口部有室內與室外氣
體流動現象發生。其區劃內氣體質量守恆式如式（1）、氣體熱量守恆式如式（2）、
氣體溫度變化速度如式（3）、依差分法計算室內溫度如式（4）所示。 
 
 
圖2 建築盛期火災時之內部物理現象 
 
 
式（1） 
 
 
   式（2） 
 
式（3） 
 
 
              式（4） 
 
2. 熱釋率 
火災成長期之熱釋率與時間的平方成比例，而盛期火災的狀況則考量空氣供
給減少，受空氣供給量 am 所支配， am 為 0.5 A H 則單位空氣消耗量以 3000KJ/Kg
為上線，則本模式之熱釋率為式（5）。而牆壁失熱率與開口部失熱率分別為式（6）
與式（7）。 
 
式（5） 
0b a s
dV m m m
dt
      
( ) ( )wall rad p a s p b s bs
p
Q Q Q c m T T c m T TdT
dt c V
     
 
( ) ( ) ss s
dTT t t T t t
dt
    
 s
p wall rad p b b p a p s s
d T
c V Q Q Q c m T c m T c m T
dt
            
20min( ( ) ,1500 )Q t t A H 
由圖3可知：無視熱氣體分解速度與壓力假設式求得之區劃內火災溫度最為
近似，未來將透過此簡易模式計算在上述三種不同條件下於換氣計算及牆壁溫度
呈現之差異與理由。 
2.後續研究建議 
由於此模型乃基於建物內火災發生後物理特性所建置之簡易基礎模型，未來
將針對不同建材特性、開口部差異、建物樓層及實際傳統建物火災比對來修正此
基礎模型。由於建築火災模型建置無法立即由短期理論確立導出，未來將嘗試透
過中長期不間斷之研議並跟其他已建立之建物火災模擬軟體比對以提出趨近於
本土合理建物火災模擬之模式。 
參考文獻 
1. 陳弘毅(1996)，「火災學」，鼎茂圖書，台北。  
2. 松山賢等（1995），「区画火災性状の簡易予測法」，日本建築学会構造系
論文集No.469，pp.159-164 
3. 大宮喜文・田中哮義・若松孝旺（1996），「可燃物条件を考慮した区画火
災性状」，日本建築学会計画系論文集No.487，pp.1-8 
4. 林慶元（1997），林慶元、莊英吉（生）、張旭富（生），「居室火災行為之實驗
研究」，第十屆建築研究成果發表會論文集（上），p145-p148，台北（1997）。 
5. 田中哮義 (2002年)，「建築火災安全工学入門」，日本建築センター 
6. 防災計画部会(2001年)，「関数電卓による火災性状予測計算」，日本建築学
会近畿支部 
 
 
符号説明： 
bm ：可燃物燃焼速度、 am ：空氣流入速度、 sm ：高温氣體流出速度、 ：區劃
內氣體密度、V ：區劃體積、 t：時間 
pc 、Q、 wallQ 、 radQ ：定壓比熱、區劃內燃燒之熱釋率、至周邊牆壁之失熱速度、
至外部之輻射失熱速度、 bT 、T、 sT ：熱分解氣體之釋出温度、外部大氣溫度、
區劃內氣體溫度 
 、 0t ：火災成長率、著火時間 
 ：輻射吸收率、 ：Stefan-Boltzmann常數、 0wT ：室内側壁温度、 k ：熱傳導
率、 x：壁内部分割之微小空間、 q：熱流束 
nZ ：中性帶高度、 hH ：至開口部上端之高度、 lH ：至開口部下端之高度、  ：
火災室內與外部大氣之空氣密度差、：外部大氣密度、 s ：火災室氣體密度、
 ：流量係數、B ：開口寬度 
 
         
  
Dr. Pei-Chun Shao 
Chang Jung University 
No.396, Chang Jung Rd, 1st Sec. 
Kway Jen, Tainan County, 71101 
Taiwan 
September 24, 2009 
               
 
Dear Dr. Pei-Chun Shao, 
 
We are very pleased to invite you to participate in the 9th IIASA-DPRI Conference on 
Integrated Disaster Risk Management (IDRiM), which will be held from October 12th 
-16th, 2009, in Kyoto, Japan. The conference is organized by the Disaster Prevention 
Research Institute (DPRI) of Kyoto University, Japan, and the International Institute for 
Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA), Austria. The conference will also mark the 
launching of the IDRiM Society and we invite you to join this association. 
 
This year’s conference theme “Scientific Challenges in Implementing Integrated 
Disaster Risk Management in a Changing World,” has been motivated by the need to 
identify and overcome barriers to the implementation of disaster risk management in a 
systematic way and to address the ever increasing challenges brought about by a rapidly 
changing world. Current economic, environmental, and political changes require the 
disaster risk reduction community to find innovative, cost effective, and equitable ways 
to reduce disaster losses and suffering while promoting sustainable development 
practices and making communities more resilient. 
 
The conference topics include: 
 
A) Removing obstacles to the implementation of disaster risk management 
B) Modeling integrated disaster risk management 
C) Synergies between disaster risk management and climate change adaptation: 
Disaster Prevention Research 
Institute, Kyoto University 
www.dpri.kyoto-u.ac.jp 
Day 1【10/12 (Mon)】 
DRH Consortium International Workshop toward Implementation Science for Disaster Risk Reduction 
(1st DRH Consortium General Assembly) 
Clock Tower Centennial Hall 
 
 
 International Conference Hall (3) 
 
1. 9:00-9:20 
Opening 
Chair: D. BENOUAR 
Presenters:  
 H. HIGASHIHARA: EDM-NIED  
 K. KURODA: MEXT 
C. DUNCAN: UNISDR  
TBD: JSPS 
 
2. 9:20-10:30 
Objectives, Issues and Framework of the Workshop  
Chair: P. SHI 
Presenters:  
H. KAMEDA: DRH and DRH Consortium 
N. OKADA: Incorporation in IDRiM09 Forum 
K. TAKARA: Future Issues  
 
10:30-10:50 Coffee break 
3.10:50-11:40 
Current status of DRH 
Chair: A. SHARMA   
Presenters: 
H. NEGISHI: System Development 
H. KAMEDA: Contents Management 
 
11:40-13:00 Lunch 
4.13:00-15:00 
Discussion: DRH Consortium Activity Clarification (1) 
Chair: H. KAMEDA / Rapporteur: K. SHIWAKU 
Panels: M. ASHTIANY, A. SHARMA, P. SHI, R. SHAW, H. TATANO 
DRH Contents Development and Management  
(facilitation, ownership, etc.) 
DRH Dissemination (user incentive / contributor incentive) 
Implication to IDRiM Society 
15:00-15:15 Coffee break 
5.15:15-17:15 
Discussion: DRH Consortium Activity Clarification (2) 
Chair: M. ASHTIANY / Rapporteur: N. IKEDA 
Panels: D. BENOUAR, S. RAHMAN, A. DIXIT, C. DUNCAN, H. NEGISHI 
DRH System Transfer for Regional DRH Development 
 DRH Dystem Enhancement 
Day 2【10/13 (Tue)】 
IDRiM ‘09 
Clock Tower Centennial Hall 
 
 International Conference Hall (1) International Conference Hall (2) International Conference Hall (3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.13:30-15:00 
 
Innovative Cost-Benefit 
Analysis of DRM 
Chair: C. GOPALAKRISHNAN 
Presenters: 
S. TSUCHIYA: SCGE applied to 
Economic Loss Estimation of Great 
Earthquake 
H.P. NACHTNEBEL: How to Assess 
the Benefits from Early Warning 
Systems 
H. SAKAKIBARA: Analysis of 
Migration Process Within Cities for 
Integrated Disaster Risk Management
Y. KAJITANI: Impacts of 
Infrastructure Damages on Industrial 
Sector Based on Small Area 
Economic Statistics 
J.P. PINELLI: Development of an 
Integrated Public Hurricane Risk 
Model: Data, Issues, and Validation 
SS17-(1) : Fire and Disaster 
Risk Management 
Organizer: T. TANAKA 
Chair: T. TANAKA 
Presenters: 
HOKUGO: A Study on Housing  
Environment Considering the Fire  
Risk and Resident Intention in Densely 
Built-up Urban Area 
K. KIM: A Study on the Efficient 
Disaster Management System Scheme 
of Korea  
W.K. CHOW: Lessons Learnt from 
Crowding at Two Railway Stations in 
China during the Spring Festival 
K. SUZUKI: Simulations of Building 
and Tunnel Fires Using the 
Multi-layer Zone Fire Model 
SS6-(1) : ASEAN-DRH / 
User-Provider Communication 
Organizer: EDM-NIED, Graduate 
School of Global Environmental 
Studies, Kyoto University, JSPS, 
MEXT, ASEAN Secretariat 
Session Chairs: H. KAMEDA, R. 
SHAW 
1. Opening Remarks & Session 
Overview 
Chair: R. SHAW 
Presenters: H. KAMEDA, A. LIM 
2. DRH Contents for ASEAN Countries 
and Other Asian Premise 
Chair: R. SHAW 
Presenters: R. SOLIDUM, K. 
PRIBADI, K. SHIWAKU 
3. ASEAN Perspective of DRH 
Application 
Chair: R. SHAW 
Presenters: TABRANI 
4. Disaster Reduction Activities and 
Potential Links with DRH (by ASEAN 
participants) Part 1 
Chair: A. LIM 
Panels: M. SAOHORN, H. 
SUBEKTI, S. PATHOUMMADY, Y. 
MAHAT 
4.15:15-16:45 
Economic Analysis of Disaster 
Risk Management 
Chair: C. SCAWTHORN 
Presenters: 
O. GUEVARA: Risk Transfer, 
Economic Market Distortions and 
Inflationary Risk on Reconstruction 
Processes due to Catastrophic Events.
T. MIZUTA: An Estimation of 
Ayutthaya the World Heritage and 
Often Flooded Area's Sightseeing 
Value 
M. YOSHIDA: Risk Transfer 
Mechanism to Promote Mitigations in 
Interdependent Security Problems 
SS17-(2) : Mitigation of Urban 
and Wild Fire 
Organizer: T. TANAKA 
Chair: T. TANAKA 
Presenters: 
P. SHAO: Fire-Safety Planning for 
Early-developed Region of Tainan 
City in Taiwan  
K. HIMOTO: A GIS-based Evaluation 
System for the Effectiveness of 
Firefighting Activities against 
Post-earthquake Fire Spread 
E.S. KIM, D.H. KIM: Forest Disaster 
Status in Korea 
N K. FONG: Performance-based 
SS6-(2): ASEAN-DRH / 
User-Provider Communication 
Organizer: EDM-NIED 
Graduate School of Global 
Environmental Studies, Kyoto 
University, JSPS, MEXT, ASEAN 
Secretariat 
4. Disaster Reduction Activities and 
Potential Links with DRH (by ASEAN 
participants) Part 2 
Chair: A. LIM 
Panels: T. WIN, N. SERVANDO, P. 
JAMPANYA, Q. TRAN 
5. General Discussion 
Day 3【10/14 (Wed)】 
IDRiM ‘09 
Clock Tower Centennial Hall 
 
 
International Conference Hall (1) International Conference Hall (2) International Conference Hall (3) 
1. 9:00-10:30 
SS14：Implementing IDRiM in 
Asian Mega Cities: Mumbai 
Hot Spot Case Study 
Organizer: H. TATANO, B.A. MISRA 
Chair: H. TATANO, B.A. MISRA 
Presenters: 
B. A. MISRA: Purpose and 
Importance of Hot Spot Case Studies 
in IDRiM: Mumbai  
H. TATANO: Research Plans and 
Collaboration Schemes in Mumbai 
Base, KU-GCOE-HSE Program. 
S. SAMADDAR: Progress Report 
from Mumbai Base: Identified 
Problems and Possible Solutions 
S. BHADURI, K. KAPADIA: 
Measuring Social Vulnerabilities in 
Mumbai and Related Topics 
 
Integrated Flood Risk 
Management 
Chair: P. NACHTNEBEL 
Presenters: 
K. KOBAYASHI: Development of an 
Integrated Flood Disaster Risk 
Assessment Framework Using Flow 
Models and arcGIS 
T. FUJIMI: Empirical Study on 
Dynamic Change of Flood Risk Curve 
in Kosen Town, Kumamoto 
T. HORI : Design of In-floodplain 
Countermeasures to Maximize the 
Success Ratio of Evacuation 
 
SS2: Disaster Education 
Organizer: A. COLLINS  
Chair: A. COLLINS 
Presenters: 
K. SHIWAKU: Capacity Building of 
NGO to Promote School Disaster 
Education 
Y. TAKEUCHI: Knowledge Transfer 
and Development of Risk Information 
Understanding Support Tool 
A. COLLINS: Disaster Education 
Engagement: an Analysis of the 
Developmental Risk Reduction 
Approach  
Y. MATSUDA: A Framework of 
Youth Education to Develop 
Earthquake Safe Community 
J. J. WALSH: Disaster Education in 
US Schools 
 
2.10:45-12:15 
Natural Hazard Threats to 
Critical Infrastructure  
Chair: W. PETAK  
Presenters: 
D. BENOUAR: Natural Hazards 
Threats to Critical Infrastructure in 
Algeria 
E. HIDESHIMA: Analysis of 
Functional Consistency of 
Network-structured Infrastructure 
Facilities under Disaster Damage. 
 
SS16: Post Earthquake 
Disaster Actions and Their 
Management 
Organizer: H. KAWASE  
Chair: H. KAWASE  
Presenters: 
H. MURAKAMI: Environmental  
Aspects of Earthquake Disaster 
Restoration - Some Notes From 
Reconnaissance Studies- 
A. NARESWARI: The Role of 
University in Post Disaster 
Management 
H. KAWASE: Recovery Process and 
Its Problems in The Bantul Area, 
Indonesia after the 2006 Central Java 
Earthquake 
T. MIYAMOTO: Collective 
Constructions of a Life Course - A 
New Tool for Visualizing Disaster 
Revitalization Processes -   
 
SS8: Community-based 
Disaster Management 
Organizer: K. YAMORI, N. KURITA 
Chair: K. YAMORI 
Presenters: 
C. JIAN: Bridging the Gap of 
Expectations: a Case Study of 
Volunteer Training in a 
Community-based Project in Sichuan 
Earthquake Area 
F. YAMADA: Community-Based 
Flood Risk Management Supporting 
Systems 
R. DWIYANI: The Adaptation of 
Bo-sai Duck Game into Local Context 
as part of Kindergarten Disaster 
Education Program in Merapi 
Volcano Area 
N. KURITA: To Raise Attractiveness 
of Disaster Mitigation Activity 
K. YAMORI: A Theory of 
"Community of Practice" and 
Disaster Management 
Day 4 【10/15 (Thu)】 
IDRiM ‘09 
Shiran Kaikan 
 
INAMORI HALL YAMAUCHI HALL 
1.9:00-10:30 
SS11: Economics of DRM and Climate Change: 
New Insights 
Organizer: J. LINNEROOTH-BAYER 
Chair: R. MECHLER 
Presenters: 
K. NAKANO, H. TATANO: Disasters and Debt: The Role of 
the Financial Position in Explaining Longer Term Impacts 
S. HOCHRAINER, R. MECHLER, G. PFLUG: Assessing 
Current and Future Impacts due to Climate-related Extreme 
Events and Global Change: The Case of Bangladesh. 
R. MECHLER: Disasters and Economic Welfare: Can 
National Savings Help Explain Post-disaster Changes in 
Consumption? 
Y.OKUYAMA: Economic Impacts of Natural Disasters: 
Development Issues and Applications 
C. MENNY: The Effects of the Marmara Earthquake of 1999 
on Small Businesses and Their Recovery 
 
Adaptive Management / Sustainable 
Management Options for Disaster Reduction 
Chair: A. SHARMA 
Presenters: 
B H J PREMATHILAKE: Sciencetific Approach for 
Evaluating Process in Building Community Resilience to 
Coastal Hazards 
M. KALDEN: Knowledge Management as Integral Part 
of Sustainability -A Practical Inquiry into Knowledge 
Gap, Local Practice and Institutionalizing Community 
Memory- 
A. TAKAGI: A Comparative Analysis of Regional 
Disaster Mitigation Power with Social Capital 
 
2.10:45-12:15 
SS9: Developing Disaster Risk Safety Nets   
Organizer: R. MECHLER 
Chair: J. LINNEROOTH-BAYER  
Presenters: 
J. LINNEROOTH-BAYER, C. BALS, R. MECHLER: 
Climate Insurance as Part of a Post-Kyoto Adaptation 
Strategy 
R. MECHLER, S. HOCHRAINER, G. PFLUG with K. 
WILLIGES: Estimating Financial Vulnerability to 
Climate-Related Natural Hazards 
P. MATZCAK: Insuring against Climate Change in Eastern 
Europe: Stakeholder Processes and Perceptions 
 
Removing Obstacles to the Implementation of 
Disaster Risk Management 
Chair: T. HORI 
Presenters: 
T. KUNIEDA: Implementation of Integrated Water 
Resources Management- IWRM Guidelines at River 
Basin Level- 
M. N. ISLAMKHAN , T. HORI: Community Based 
Low-cost Safe Water Supply Model Coping up Disaster 
Risk Management ( An Experience of Bangladesh ) 
S. SCHEER: The DRH Europe/Africa Node – A 
Knowledge Exchange Platform for Risk Reduction 
Technologies From Natural Disasters 
 
12:15-13:15 Lunch 
3.13:15-14:45 
SS15: Fundamentals of Implementation Science  
Organizer: N. OKADA, R. SHAW 
Chair: N. OKADA, R. SHAW   
Presenters: 
N. OKADA : Some Thoughts on Fundamentals of 
Implementation Science for Disaster Reduction 
C. GOPALAKRISHNAN: Effective Implementation of 
Integrated Disaster Risk Management (IDRM):Toward an 
Implementation Science 
R. SHAW: Education Research Interface for Innovations in 
Policies for Integrated Disaster Risk 
Management 
Chair: M. ASHTIANY 
Presenters:  
M. S. RAHMAN: The Challenge for IDRiM in 
Developing Countries: Scientific or Socio-Economic 
and Political? 
A. LINAYO: An Experience Designing a National 
Research Agenda Applied to Disaster Risk Management
J. E. ROVINS: Disaster Know No Borders: Using 
Day 5 【10/16 (Fri)】 
The Young Scientists Session 
Shiran Kaikan Annex 
 
 
 Room 1 Room 2 
1.8:40-8:50 
 
Opening 
Chair: M. YOKOMATSU，S. HOCHRAINER 
(Closed) 
2.8:55-10:10 
Session 1：Pre-Disaster Capacity Building 
Chair: M. YOKOMATSU  
Presenters: 
K. FUJITA: Sustainable Forest Management and Disaster 
Risk Reduction in Mountain Villages in Reihoku Area, 
Japan 
R. BHANDARI: Interpreting Urban Ritual Event as a 
Means for Enhancing the Capacity to Cope with Disaster 
Risk: A Case Study of Urban Communities in Kathmandu 
Y. LIU: Vitae System Based Multi-Agent Simulation of 
Evacuation from an Inundating Underground Space 
 
Session 2：Education and Implementation 
Technology  
Chair: K. ARYAL 
Presenters: 
R. DWIYANI: Investigating Children’s Experiences of 
Living around Merapi Volcano: An Initial Step to Identify 
Children’s Needs for Disaster Risk Management 
J. DU: Precipitation Changes and Human impacts on 
Hydrologic Variables in Zhengshui River Basin，China 
J. NA: Implementation of the Yonmenkaigi System for Sand 
Mining Management in Local Community of Merapi 
Volcano 
 
10:10-10:30 Coffee break 
3.10:30-11:45 
Session 3：Risk Sharing 
Chair: S. HOCHRAINER 
Presenters： 
M. ZHOU: Review and Research on Crop Insurance System 
of China - Case Study in Hunan Province 
F. HE: Hedging Drought Disaster Losses of Rice Using 
Weather Index Insurance in Hunan of China 
T. YE: Creating Right Incentives: Can Direct Subsidy to 
Crop Insurance Premium Achieve Desirable Goal? 
 
Session 4：Risk Assessment 
Chair: H. SHIROSHITA 
Presenters: 
H. CHEN: Visualizing the Future Regional Characteristics 
as the Base for Pre-disaster Recovery Strategy of 
Tokai-Tonankai-Nankai Earthquake by Population Decline 
between 2000 and 2030 
B. LIU: Analysis of Multi-Hazard Risk to Human Life at 
County Level in the Yangtze River Delta 
L. KONOSHIMA: Future Changes of Abnormal Rainfall 
and Flood Risks in Asian Monsoon Region 
 
11:45-13:00 Lunch , “KONOE” in Kyodai Kaikan 
4.13:00-14:15 
 
Session 5：Vulnerability and Human Reaction  
Chair: H. SHIROSHITA 
Presenters： 
S. SATO: Comparing the Reaction of People at Highly 
Impacted Area to Two Recent Earthquake Disasters 
-TRENDREADERTM Analysis of Web News Concerning 
the 2004 Niigata Chuetsu Earthquake and the 2007 Niigata 
Chuetsu-oki Earthquake- 
N. N. HUY: Microclimate Change and Social Economic 
Development Planning in the Provincial Level: A Case 
Study in Ninh Thuan Province, Vietnam 
Y. FUNASE: A SCGE Model to Analyze the Global Impact 
Due to the Malfunction of International Ports 
Post-Disaster Recovery 
Chair: S. HOCHRAINER 
Presenter: 
M. SAKAMOTO: The Study of Life Recovery of Disaster 
Victims and Social Capital -Case Studies of Indian Ocean 
Tsunami and Central Java Earthquake Recovery- 
M. IMURA: Role of Common Activity with Post-Disaster 
Relocation: Case Study from Sri Lanka 
R. VALIZADEH: Dimensions of Public Participation in 
Earthquake Region's Reconstruction Process: A Case Study 
of Iran's Lorestan Province 
 
FIRE-SAFETY PLANNING FOR EARLY-DEVELOPED REGION
OF TAINAN CITY IN TAIWAN
Pei-Chun SHAO1 and Tung-Han YEH2
ABSTRACT
Early-developed regions in urban cities usually have higher fire risk because of mixed
land using and high density of old buildings without considering fire-prevention planning. Such
regions exist as a kind of potential danger threatening cities. Thus, how to reduce fire risk and to
improve environment of these areas becomes an important issue in urban disaster mitigation plan.
Tainan city of Taiwan is an ancient city where developed from 17th Century. There are many
traditional cultural treasures and old buildings exist in central part of city. In this research,
Tien-Huo Community of Tainan city is chosen to discuss its fire risk and make clear real
situation. What the purpose of the research is to suggest strategies of fire safety management for
this community. The methodology of this research includes literature review, field survey,
simulation and questionnaire. Through field surrey and fire spreading simulation, it is found that
regional fire risk related to several factors which are architectural materials, close and density
of building, narrow streets, lack of firefighting installations, mixed land using, fire risk of local
business, lack of education and firefighting management. Besides, the results of questionnaire
point out that residents whose age is over 46 years old with education level of college needed to
be strengthened the knowledge of firefighting and the conservative attitude of residents is shown
when they were asked improving living quality for fire safety involved with personal benefit.
Finally, seven directions for fire safety planning are suggested to Tien-Huo community which are:
1.Upgrading protection for building, 2.Ensuring disaster prevention routes, 3.Building enhances
the use of safety, 4.Upgrading safety usage for firefighting system, 5.Ensuring evacuation safety,
6.Setting up firefighting organization of community level, and 7.Implementing fire education.
Keywords：Fire-prevention planning, early-developed region, fire safety management
INTRODUCTION
Old blocks in urban cities were important areas during the period of city development.
Since the shortage of design at the beginning, some faults of the arrangement were left until now.
Especially when a residential district merges with a business area, the risk of conflagrations will
increase. Furthermore, in case of violation of laws made for fire prevention in buildings,
damages caused by a conflagration will keep increasing. Besides, during the fast
urban-development, those buildings in old blocks with poor designs for fire prevention also
become a weak point as a conflagration happens. In the study, Tien-Huo Community, chosen as a
case to analyze with research purposes, which is located at the early-developed region in
Chihkanh Culture District. The community is not only an old block in Tainan, but also a valuable
culture treasure kept for its history accompanied with the development of Tainan city. Based on
the viewpoint of culture-preservation, the methods is an important issue used to prevent as well
1 Associate Professor, Dept. of Land Management and Development, Chang Jung University, Tainan, Taiwan
2 Research Assistant, Dept. of Land Management and Development, Chang Jung University, Tainan, Taiwan
Table 1: The Main Historic Heritages in Tien-Huo Community
Name of Historic
Heritage Class of Historic Heritage Built Time
Wu Temple for
Ceremony
The First Class of Country
Heritage
Building：A.C 1663; Temple：A.C
1890
Great Matzu
Temple
The First Class of Country
Heritage
Building：A.C 1663;Temple：A.C
1684
Wu Temple of
Foundation
The Third Class of Country
Heritage Around A.C1647~1683
Chih-Kan Lou
(Chiqian)
The First Class of Country
Heritage A.C1653
Ling-You Temple
of Function The Third Class of CountryHeritage
Around A.C1646~1683
(The period of Yong-Li in the
Nan-Min Dynasty)
Guang-An
Temple
Historic Heritage of Tainan
City
Around A.C1723~1735(The period of
Yong-Zheng in the Ching Dynasty)
Resource: Tainan City Government Culture Affairs Bureau
The construction of most buildings in Tien-Huo Community was the brick-made architecture.
The buildings made of inflammable materials (wood, bricks, and iron sheets) were 55 units in
Total. Though the percentage was not high in Tien-Huo community, most of buildings made of
inflammable materials were historic heritages such as temple architectures (see Figure 3).
Figure 3: Materials of the Buildings. Figure 4: The Distribution of Road-width in
Tien-Huo Community.
2. The distribution of roads and fire control instruments
Regarding to the streets and roads in Tien-Huo Community, besides the roads surrounded outside
were 9 meter in width, the roads in interior parts were very narrow. The narrowest one was only
1.3 meter in width. Many condensed buildings were distributed in narrow streets which were
also filled with motorcycles and other objects. The situation made the small blocks become
were the places where conflagrations would happen. The locations included the place where a
large scale of buildings made of inflammable materials gathered near historical heritages and
temples. Besides, the buildings around Guang-An Temple had a risk of being set fire because of
non-management status. Moreover, stores related to food and drinks business were also involved
in red blocks for their cooking affaires. On the other hand, the blue blocks addressed in the map
were areas which a fire spread might happen. When a conflagration happens, these areas in blue
cluster could prevent fire engines from entrance and were away from the supplement of the fire
prevention instruments. These areas involved the north section of Xinmei Street and the south
section of Junwei Street where joss-stick stores and fuel gas stores were gathered.
ANALYSIS OF FIRE SIMULATION AND QUESTIONNAIRE
Fire Spreading Simulation
The software used to process simulation of the fire spread in this study was URBAN
FIR SPREAD MPDEL created by Dr. Keisuke Himoto. The concept of model was that when one
building catches fire, the computer program can predict the influence on other buildings by
calculating fire properties of heat energy on the first building; based on the prediction, the fire
spread also can be simulated by the program. The basic concept of the fire spread was addressed
on Figure 7 below.
Figure 7: The Concept of Urban Fire Spreading Model.
Resource：Keisuke Himoto, 2006
Choosing two areas to process simulation from the blocks with the high risk of the fire where
historic temples and narrow streets located. These areas chosen in this study concentrated a large
scale of buildings made of inflammable materials, and also the area of the culture core in Tainan
City. In the case of historic temples concentrated area, the building catching a fire at the
beginning was coded No. 11. In the case of narrow-street area, fire outbreaks in the building
which was coded as No.8 (see Figure 8.). Conditions setting in both areas are as follows: 120
minutes for simulation, the wind direction was set as northeasterly wind with speed of 10 m/s
which was the wind frequently happened in Tainan City.
In the historic-temples area, 40 minutes later when building coded No.11 started catching fire,
the temperature approached 1200 . 60 minutes later℃ , the building of No.11 burned out. During
the period of simulation, 20 minutes later since the fire happened, the buildings near the bottom
of No.11 caught fire; 30 minutes later, 4 buildings at this area started catching fire for the fire
spread; 40 minutes later 6 buildings at the area kept burning, and 80 minutes later some buildings
involved in the spread of fire started burning out. 120 minutes later, 5 buildings burned out and 1
From the viewpoint of rescue time and data from the survey, it took 13.23 minutes from
occurrence of a fire to the fire notification caught by a fire brigade. 10 minutes later when a fire
spread on buildings made of inflammable materials; the conflagration might be spread to
uncontrolled situation. When a fire brigade comes to put off the fir, 10 minutes after ccurrence of
conflagration, two buildings or more might get involved into spread fire. Therefore, it is
important to focus on extinguishment at the early stage of conflagration and reduce the time
spent in arrangement of fire brigades in Tien-Huo Community in the future.
Analysis of Questionnaire
The questionnaire survey was conducted to residents in Tien-Huo Community. The
sampled error was controlled to 5% when processing the sampling. The number of
questionnaires was113 in valid number, and 120 questionnaires were devoted in this study. The
period of survey was from 3.3.2009 to 3.27.2009. The number of retrieved questionnaires was 96,
and retrieve rate was 80%. 51% of answers were male and 49% of ones were female. The
education level of 71% of answers was over high school. 51% of answers were over 46 years old.
The percentage of material of buildings included brick made (24%), concrete made (68.8%),
brick-wooden made (7%) and wooden (1%). The outcome of survey was summed up below.
1. Fire experience and fire-prevention awareness
60.4% of answers remembered the fire event happened before; however, only 24% of answers
knew causes of fire. 77.1% of answers agreed that streets in this block are narrow and occupied
by motorcycles or miscellaneous articles. Besides, 79.2% of answers thought that fire danger
would be related to old building, and 20.8% of answers did not consider that fire would take
place frequently in this block. While asked experience of using fire facilities, 66.8% of answers
could operate it and facilities most used frequently is fire extinguisher. Besides, 70.8% of
answers equip fire extinguisher at home; however, only 33.3% of repliers had ever joined fire
drill before. Most answers thought the knowledge of fire prevention was not enough, and hope to
get more education about fire prevention in Tien-Huo Community. Besides, answers also thought
the local fire prevention association was necessary in Tien-Huo. The duty of the association is to
extinguish the conflagration in the beginning and process the rescue and leadership when disaster
happens.
2. Improvement on fireproof living environment
When coming to fire prevention prepared for ordinal family, 61.6% of answers thought
instruments, such as extinguishers owned by family, can stop the spread fire validly at the early
stage of conflagration. Besides, 55% of answers knew that parks or elementary school could be
used as evacuation place or fire buffer zone and they thought that there was not enough open
space for evacuation and fire obstructing. Furthermore, 55.2% of answers thought that objects
utilized in space decoration and windows in each house could be chosen the fireproof materials;
besides, those who lived in this block over 20 years almost equip fire extinguishers at home.
While asked which kind of materials used for fire-proof improvement, 44.8% of answers replied
fire-prevention paint for fire-prevention improvement and 25% of them answered no idea. Only
30 people answered cost for improving fire-proof they would pay and other 86 answers preferred
subsidies from the public sector. 50% of 30 people who answered cost for fire safety
improvement would like to pay NT$10,000 for fireproof improvement. Regarding to fireproof
subsidy, 50 out of 86 answers hoped that the government could afford 50%-90% of expense
when strengthening the competence of fire prevention for every family.
3. Cross analysis
Based on cross-analysis, answers with experience of fire prevention agreed with strategies of fire
REFERENCE
Pei-Chun Shao, I-Ju Hsiao, Yi-Shiou Lai, Chun-Chieh Huang and I-Fan Chen (2004),“The Issue
of Fire Safety Management for Historic Cultural Area in the Case of Tsu-Kanh Culture
Area”, Proceeding of National Disaster Management Conference, Tainan, Taiwan,
pp.6-64~6-73 (in Chinese)
Keisuke Himoto and Takeyoshi Tanaka (2006), “Developmet of Physics-based Fire Spread
Model”, Journal of Environmental Engineering, Architectural Institute of Japan, No.607,
pp.15-22 (in Japanes)
Jian-Bi. Hsiao (2001), “Basic Research for Heritage Preservation and Re-usage”, Report of
Architecture and Building Research Institute, Ministry of the Interior of Taiwan. (in
Chinese)
A1 高層建築物の順次避難計画における非常放送が避難行動に与える影響 佐野　友紀 B1 電線被覆の短時間過電流着火現象に要する最小着火エネルギー 藤田　修 C1 大空間火災プルーム天井ジェットのCFDシミュレーション 清家　美帆
A2 初期火災時の視覚的影響による異変感知に関する研究-その1：煙層と煙濃度の相関性- 今本　伸和 B2
微小重力場における電線被覆燃え拡がり現象に与える輻射影響
の検討 竹内　広行 C2
有風下の開口噴出火炎性状に及ぼす隣棟の影響の実験的解明と
モデル化 林　吉彦
A3 初期火災時の視覚的影響による異変感知に関する研究-その2：異変感知に関する被験者実験- 進藤　友紀 B3 溶融過程の電線被覆材の挙動の非定常性についての考察 巖上　純也 C3 大平面空間における煙流動の数値流体解析 鈴木　圭一
A4 目視率に基づく避難開始時間算出方法に関する研究 吉野　攝津子 B4 低圧環境下における電気ケーブル延焼現象に関するモデリング 中村　祐二 C4
電気ケーブル火災の被害予測を目的とした火災力学シミュレータ
（FDS）による燃焼評価 森　孝太
B5 立体的に燃焼する可燃物に関する実験的研究(その1　着火位置による燃焼性状の変化) 伊原　広由基 C5
市街地火災を模擬した相似模型による空中投下水の消火効果に
関する研究 山崎　賢
A5 飲食店舗の避難計画－性能的アプローチに基づく避難規定の再構築に関する研究（その1）－ 山口　純一 B6
立体的に燃焼する可燃物に関する実験的研究
(その2　火炎高さと放射熱) 小山　陽一朗
A6 飲食店舗の避難安全検証－性能的アプローチに基づく避難規定の再構築に関する研究（その2）－ 田村　祐介 B7
微生物が関与した廃棄物バイオマス燃料の火災・事故の危険性評
価(その1　水素産生試験による危険性評価) 斎藤　洋徳 C6 区画サイズについての確率論的研究 青木　義次
A7 韓国人の避難特性を考慮した避難安全計画樹立方案に関する研究 金  烔摁 B8
微生物が関与した廃棄物バイオマス燃料の火災・事故の危険性評
価(その2　メタゲノム解析による危険性評価) 小原　裕治 C7
事務所・工場・病院の焼損率に関する研究
（その3）　法規定と焼損率の関係 佐藤　博臣
A8 韓日共同住宅における防災意識に関する比較研究- 避難計画を中心に- 徐  東九 C8 CFDを用いた道路トンネル火災の人的被害評価に関する研究 清家　美帆
B9 内装材として用いられる北海道産木材の表面燃焼性 菊地伸一 C9 密集市街地における「沿道型」と「個別型」戦略別に見た延焼リスク経年変化の比較 北後　明彦
A9 FDSを用いた地下鉄駅における避難経路に関する研究 塚原　学 B10 消防隊員の局所寒冷血管反応と体組成・生活習慣の関連 橋本　好弘
A10 地震直後の物品散乱を想定した通路歩行実験（その1）－実験概要と散乱状況別歩行速度－ 大岩　大祐 B11 火災統計分析による札幌における火災の特徴 大島　孝之 C10 関東大震災における銀座煉瓦街の被害に関する研究 桐井  祥太朗
A11 地震直後の物品散乱を想定した通路歩行実験(その2)－歩行速度規定要因の分析－ 金子　拓行 B12
北海道消防学校における火災原因調査に関する教育訓練につい
て 渡部　将 C11 濃尾地震による火災被害に関する研究 西田　幸夫
A12 地震直後の物品散乱を想定した通路歩行実験（その3）－避難シミュレーションへの適用－ 野竹　宏彰 C12 航空写真の画像解析による都市の延焼火災分析 田中　大貴
A13 京都都市圏における都市内滞留者の時空間分布推定に関する研究 木全 淳平 C13
自主防災組織の現状と活性化の課題に関する研究
－東京23区における自主防災組織に対する調査結果の考察－ 清水　智乗
OS3　日本各地域での特異な火災事情　11:08～12:20
　　　司会　早坂洋史、鶴田俊
AⅢ　地下鉄駅の避難，地震後の避難　11:10～12:10
　　　司会　山口純一、田村祐介
平成２２年度日本火災学会研究発表会プログラム
第１日　　５月１７日(月曜日）　　午前の部 （９時２０分　～　１２時２０分)
Ａ会場
（北海道大学学術交流会館　小講堂）　194名
B会場
（北海道大学学術交流会館　第１会議室）　162名
C会場
（北海道大学学術交流会館　第３会議室）　50名
開会式　挨拶（火災学会長）　9:20～9:25
　会場：A会場（北海道大学学術交流会館　小講堂）
AⅠ　異変感知・避難開始　9:30～10:18
　　　司会　野竹宏彰、清水智乗
BⅠ　材料・物品の燃焼性状　9:30～11:06
　　　司会　岡本勝弘、渡部将
CⅢ　広域火災Ⅰ　11:22～12:10
　　　司会　北後明彦、村田明子
CⅠ　モデリング　9:30～10:30
　　　司会　岡泰資、鳥飼宏之
AⅡ　避難安全評価手法・避難計画　10:20～11:08
　　　司会　佐野友紀、進藤友紀
CⅡ　リスクアナリシス　10:32～11:20
　　　司会　仁井大策、出口嘉一
休憩
A26 植物性たんぱく泡消火剤の消火性能 小笠原　輝 B22 圧縮水素容器搭載自動車の火災安全性－ガソリンおよびＣＮＧ自動車との比較－ 鈴木　仁治 C25 大規模平面空間を拡がる天井面下の煙流動に関する一考察 水野　雅之
A27 石油タンク火災用の泡消火薬剤について(第5報）-泡性状の違いによる消火特性　その4- 内藤　浩由 B23 水素燃料自動車の安全性 佐藤　研二 C26 大空間建物での火災時における温度場について 鈴木 健
A28 石油タンク火災用の泡消火薬剤について(第5報）-泡性状の違いによる消火特性　その5- 山谷　詩朗 B24 ハイブリッド自動車およびガソリン自動車の燃焼性状に関する研究 渡邉　憲道 C27 傾斜天井に沿った熱気流の温度･速度減衰性状 岡　泰資
A29 石油タンク火災用の泡消火薬剤について(第5報）-泡性状の違いによる消火特性　その6- 佐澤　潔 B25 CAFSによる自動車およびバイオガソリン火災の消火に関する検証 坂本　直久 C28 傾斜天井下を流動する熱気流の厚みに関する研究 林　玲奈
A30 泡消火剤の放射特性に関する実験 田中　太 C29 天井流温度に基づく火点検知手法に関する研究その1　煙層の影響を受ける天井流の温度性状予測 安藤　翔
A31 気流解析と連立した放水砲による放射挙動シミュレーション 川端　信義 C30 天井流温度に基づく火点検知手法に関する研究その2　実大実験結果及び予測手法の妥当性の検証 村岡　宏
B26 危険物流出等の事故原因に関する検証 大熊　龍也 C31 道路トンネル火災に対する自然排煙塔の効果について 横田　昌弘
A32 金属スクラップ堆積物火災の消火技術に関する研究（その1）-金属スクラップの火災事例- 山崎　ゆきみ B27 湿度下におけるマグネシウム粉の発熱挙動 岩田　雄策
A33 金属スクラップ堆積物火災の消火技術に関する研究（その2）̶消火困難性に関する検討ー 佐宗　祐子 B28 原子力発電所における火災安全の在り方に関する考察 長岐　雅博 C32 噴出熱気流性状に対する開口アスペクト比と側壁の影響　その1 山本　悠平
A34 金属スクラップ堆積物火災の消火技術に関する研究（その3）－CAFSの消火効果－ 松島　至俊 B29 燃料加工施設用電気ケーブルの熱衝撃試験 松田　昭博 C33 噴出熱気流性状に対する開口アスペクト比と側壁の影響　その2 伊東　俊介
A35 耐火建物火災に対するCAFSの消火効果の検証 廖　赤虹 B30 動植物性残渣の自然発火 村沢　直治 C34 韓国の市場火災の伝播過程に関する実例調査研究 丘仁赫
A36 消防隊員の放水技能に関する検証 木田　哲夫 C35 韓国における都市火災シミュレーション構築のための開口噴出火炎の温度予測 金南革
A37 消防隊員の疲労度判定方法の検討 三浦　大 B31 韓国の建築用ガラス及びカーテンウォールの安全基準改善に関する研究 金知瓔 C36 有風下の開口噴出火炎の隣棟外壁への熱的影響の実験的解明 申易澈
B32 コンクリ―トの高强度化による熱的特性に関する研究 權寧璡 C37 初期火災における天井下での火炎からの熱流束の予測 井戸　和彦
A38 全面タンク火災消火支援用浮子の実験的評価 田中　初実 B33 60MPa級高強度コンクリートの高温圧縮実験に基づく過渡ひずみモデルの検討 右田　周平
A39 小型放水実験による放水挙動の解析 石川　亮 B34 土壁の塗厚と遮熱性能の関係について 水上　点睛 C38 火炎面不安定性理論による火炎伝播挙動の解明 向山　健司
A40 粒子法による泡消火剤投入シミュレーション 宮下　達也 B35 壁装材料の燃焼性状に関する研究 吉田　正志 C39 流体力学的不安定性による火炎のフラクタル構造 和田　悠香里
A41 区画火災におけるミスト放水による抑制効果　区画模型実験結果 石原　慶大 C40 斜面上における線火源の火炎形状に関する実験 鈴木　秀和
A42 湿式連結送水管を利用する圧縮空気泡の放水に関する検討 神代　斉 C41 空隙が不均一に分布する薄い可燃性固体の燃え拡がり-燃え拡がり確率におよぼす空隙形状の影響- 工藤　翔平
Ａ会場
（北海道大学学術交流会館　小講堂）　194名
休憩
AⅥ　消防技術Ⅰ　9:00～10:12
　　　司会　佐宗祐子、木田哲夫
OS1　新しいタイプの自動車における火災安全　9:00～10:12
　　　司会　尾川義雄、石原慶大
CⅧ　燃焼性状・火災プルームⅠ　11:40～12:28
　　　司会　大宮喜文、今村友彦
B会場
（北海道大学学術交流会館　第１会議室）　162名
C会場
（北海道大学学術交流会館　第３会議室）　50名
CⅦ　熱気流Ⅱ・熱流束　10:26～11:38
　　　司会　村岡宏、横田昌弘
CⅥ　熱気流Ⅰ・特殊環境　9:00～10:24
　　　司会　須川修身、成瀬友宏
BⅣ　化学火災・特殊火災　10:14～11:14
　　　司会　渡邉憲道、坂本直久
AⅦ　消防技術Ⅱ　10:14～11:26
　　　司会　砂原弘幸、神代斉
AⅧ　消防技術Ⅲ　11:28～12:28
　　　司会　内藤浩由、松島至俊
BⅤ　構造耐火　11:16～12:16
　　　司会　池田憲一、近藤史郎
第２日　　５月１８日(火曜日）　　午前の部 （９時００分　～　１２時２８分)
  
台湾の伝統市街地の防火に関する研究 
－台南市天后里を事例として－ 
邵 珮君（長栄大学・台湾） 樋本 圭佑（京都大学防災研究所） 田中 哮義（京都大学防災研究所） 
 
Fire Prevention of Urban Traditional Area in Taiwan  -In Case of Tienhou-li of Tainan City 
Pei-Chun Shao, Keisuke Himoto and Takeyoshi Tanaka  
 
１．はじめに 
 文化遺産は前人より残った珍しい宝だと言える。
文化資産を通じて、過去の発展の脈絡を見通すこと
ができる。しかしながら、時の流れにより、多量な
文化資産が風化、老朽化したまま、さらに災害の発
生により、有形の文化遺産が一瞬破壊された。文化
遺産にとって、時間と災害から如何に安全、持続的
に現代社会に存在することが一つ重要な課題であ
る。一方、文化遺産を維持するため、「点」－文化
財の建物自身のハードとソフトの考慮以外、「面」
まで延ばして、「面」－文化財の周辺における環境
のコントロールが欠けることができない。そのため、
建物自身と周りの環境を含めての安全管理が考えな
ければならない。文化遺産がよく火災で被害される
ことを考慮し、本研究は文化遺産の多い台湾の台南
市天后里の赤崁文化ゾーンを研究対象として取り上
げて、歴史文化地域における文化遺産（建物）の自
身と周辺の環境における管理問題、火災に対する脆
弱性の要素、防火需要を分析し、研究目的としては
歴史文化地域の防火安全管理の現状を検証すること
である。 
 
２．台南市赤崁文化ゾーンの発展背景 
 オランダ人（1574）澎湖から台南まで移し、安平
古城（熱蘭遮城 1624）と羅民遮城堡、市街地を作っ
た（1653，赤嵌）。台南の市街地はオランダ時期の
普羅民遮街をベースとして発展したが、例えば：十
字街区（明鄭時期 1661～1683 年）、五条港市街地
と台南城垣（清代時期 1684～1895 年）、植民地時
代の台南府（1896 年～1944 年）。赤崁文化ゾーン
は台南市の市街地の発展として主なフレームになっ
た。 
現在、赤崁文化ゾーンは面積約 18ha で、北--成功
路、南--民權路、東--忠義路、西--西門路二段に囲ま
れた地域だ。西北東南方向の長さは約 450 メートル，
東北西南方向の長さは約 420 メートル（図１参照）。
台南市には一級、二級、三級の文化財（1997 年 5
月 14 日以前の分類システム）と国定、市定文化財
の数が 113 ヶ所であり、全国の約 2 割が占める。赤
崁樓、大天后宮、武廟は文化ゾーンに主な文化財で
ある（表１参照）。す。 
 
３．環境の現況と火災安全の検討 
３．１ 文化ゾーンの周辺と火災安全 
 この地区に 1965 世帯があり、人口は 5410 人で、
約台南市の人口の 0.7%を占める（2008 年末まで）。
この地域の土地使用は商業地区が一番多い、約 5 割
を占め、住宅利用が約 48％である。建物の特徴はほ
ぼ２－３階の老朽建物が一番多く、約 53％を占め
る。地域内の道路は主な南北線と東西線がそれぞれ
22m と 18m の幅がある以外、2m 以下の道路も存在
し（図２参照）、また、狭い道路ではバイクの駐車
やゴミの放置などのため、火災が発生すれば、消防
車両は入りにくい状況が可能だと考えられる（図３
参照）。一方、文化財建築の近くに飲食店が多くあ
り、文化財建築への脅威にならないよう、火気と電
気の使用が注意しなければならない。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     図１ 赤崁文化ゾーンの範囲 
 
表１ 赤崁文化ゾーンに主な一級文化財建築の属性 
名称 レベル評定 時間 簡    介 
赤崁樓 一級 1653 1653 年にオランダ人に建てら
れ、「普羅民遮城」と呼ばれた。
1661 年に鄭成功は占領し、東都
明京をされ、鄭成功の住所であ
った。 
祀典武
廟 
一級 17 世紀
明朝の
永曆年
間 
「武聖関羽」を祭る寺で、明鄭
時期の寧靖王邸の関帝庁により
修築されたお寺である。 
大天后
宮 
一級 1663 1663 年の鄭經は明代王室の寧靖
王朱術桂の來台を尊敬して建て
られた豪邸である。1684 年に、
清代の朝廷により媽祖廟として
修築された。台灣では唯一の官
方に建てられたお寺である。 
 
３．２ 文化財建築の内部の火災安全 
この地域に文化財建築の種類はお寺が一番多いで
あり、図４のように文化財建築の構造や装飾部品が
主に木造で、消防設備や計画をはかることが必要と
なる。一方、この地域の消防システムについて、商
業地区と住宅地区のため考えられて、12 名の消防隊
員だけ対応する。文化財建築のための消防計画が考
えられなかったので、如何に周辺の住民の力を利用
しながら、地域の文化財建築を火災から守るシステ
ムが作ることが必要だとなる。 
 
４．延焼シミュレーションと結果 
附件 4 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/05
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 都市傳統街區中單體建築物延燒模型建置之研究
計畫主持人: 邵珮君
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-309-010- 學門領域: 建築都巿
無研發成果推廣資料
博士生 2 0 100% 水上點晴、西野智研 
博士後研究員 1 0 100% 樋本圭佑 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
此研究乃與日本京都大學防災研究所田中哮義教授進行國際合作開發，透過本
研究建立持續延伸建築火災延燒模式之研究，並每年寒暑假獲京都大學防災研
究所聘為國外研究學者身份，至今亦持續推動此計畫之後續複雜化模式建構；
並將此研究與日本古蹟防火系統開發進行整合，亦獲得參與日本京都大學、立
命館大學於古蹟或老舊街區火災延燒模式與防火規劃之大型研究計畫，對於推
動國內古蹟建築防火規劃或老舊街區火災安全系統建置上有所幫助。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
