 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 1 Configuration of a ballscrew driven  stage 
these linear components with rolling elements during 
operation. In order to isolate the specific cause inducing 
the variation in vibration features effectively, it is 
therefore important and necessary to characterize the 
fundamental vibration behavior of the positioning stage 
and the associated frequencies dominated by linear 
components. With this concept, the sources causing the 
abnormal vibration can be effectively identified. 
On the other hand, fault detection by mean of 
monitoring the vibration frequency spectrum is also 
easily susceptible to change with the moving of the 
measuring points of accelerate meters, which will 
reduce the reliability of the examination. Apart from 
vibration analysis, the acoustic detection also plays an 
important role in machinery industry. However, it 
requests long-term experiences and is liable to be 
affected by subjective consciousness of the engineer. 
Therefore, the acoustic detection can not provide a 
reliable application yet. As in dealing with vibration 
spectrum, acoustic signals caused by various linear 
components of machine system may contain a whole 
range of subtle frequencies varying with time.  
To be a feasible method, the correlations between 
mechanical significances exhibited by acoustic 
characteristics and structural components should be 
properly established, so as to provide the basis for 
clarifying the sources causing machine abnormality 
from measured acoustic characteristics. With the attempt 
to clarify the meanings of the vibration signal coming out 
from an abnormal machine, this study was aimed at 
investigating the influence of a fault linear guide on the 
vibration and acoustic characteristics of a positioning stage 
through the use of experimental analysis integrated with 
the finite element modeling. The finite element modeling 
of stage was employed to identify the vibration behavior 
under the influence of the linear guides with different 
preload, which was experimentally verified with a stage 
prototype with fault or normal linear guide modulus.  
2. Construction of the positioning stage 
To establish the correlation between the linear guide 
preload and vibration characteristics of linear stage, a 
stage prototype was constructed in this study to examine 
the variation of the vibration characteristics, as shown in 
Fig. 1. The planar platform was horizontally supported 
by two linear guides, with four slide blocks. The guide 
rails are 700 mm long, and they can be secured on the 
base in parallel at spans of 200 or 280 mm. The material 
of the platform and base is grade S45C carbon steel.  
This commercial linear guide has four ball grooves 
with a circular arc profile forming a point contact at a 
45° angle. Linear guides can be preloaded to different 
levels by setting oversized steel balls within the groove, 
and they are generally quantified as light (low) preload 
(Z0, 0.00~0.02C) and heavy (high) preload (ZB, 
0.06~0.08C), where C is the dynamic load rating 
(10.31kN). The driven ball screw is precision grinding 
grade and has a diameter of 20 mm, lead of 5 mm, and a 
basic dynamic load rating C of 4.07 kN. To lessen the 
axial backlash, the ball nut was slightly preloaded to a 
level of 0.06C. The standardized ball screw support 
units coded EK12 and EF10 were used at both ends of 
the screw shaft. 
To realize the effect of the linear guide preload, the 
slide blocks supporting the loading platform were 
preloaded to different amount, including standard and 
abnormal preload state, respectively. The abnormal 
linear guide was simulated by intentionally adjusting the 
preload of slide blocks to deviate from the default 
values setting at factory. The four cases are described as 
follows:  
(1) Case 1 (Z0), the stage was equipped with low 
preloaded linear guides; namely, all the slide blocks 
were set at low preload (Z0).  
(2) Case 2 (ZB), all the slide blocks were set at high 
preload (ZB).  
(3) Case 3 (Z0-), the stage was equipped with three low 
preloaded linear guides and one damaged linear 
guide. As shown in Fig.1 the preload of slide block 
D was slightly decreased by removing five steels 
balls from each rolls. The total stiffness of the 
linear stage was lower than that of the case 1.   
(4) Case 4 (ZB-), the stage was equipped with three 
high preloaded guides and one low preloaded guide. 
As shown in Fig.1, the slide block D was set at low 
preload, which caused the total stiffness to be lower 
than the case 2.   
In case 1 and case 3, the four sliding blocks of 
linear guides are all set at low preload and high preload 
level, respectively, which cane be regarded as a well 
assembled stage. While the case 2 and case 4 can be 
regarded as abnormally assembled stages due to 
unevenly preloaded linear guide installed inside.   
 
3. Finite element modeling of the stage  
Before testing, we first conducted the modal 
analysis to assess the natural vibration characteristics of 
the stage and their variations under the influence of the 
preload state of linear guide modulus. Fig. 2(a) presents 
the finite element model of the positioning stage. Each 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Fundamental vibration mode of a positioning 
stage 
Table 1 Vibration frequencies of the stage under different preloaded state (Hz) 
Mode 
Low preloaded 
stage (Case 1) 
Low preloaded 
stage, with one 
damaged guide 
(Case 2) 
High preloaded 
stage (Case 3) 
High preloaded 
stage, with one low 
preloaded guide, 
(Case 4) 
Yawing 377 372 428 415 
Pitching 392 383 472 447 
Bending 680 661 732 705 
Rolling 695 682 817 797 
 
4. Results and Discussion 
4.1 Natural vibration characteristics 
Fig. 3 presents the fundamental vibration motions 
of the stage obtained from finite element analysis. The 
first mode is a yawing vibration of the platform about 
the vertical axis (Z axis), which is dominated by the 
yawing motion of the carriage blocks of the linear 
guides. The second mode is the pitching vibration of the 
platform about the X axis, dominated by the in-phase 
pitching motions of the linear guides. The third mode is 
the bending vibration of the plate about the Y axis, 
affected by the out-of-phase pitching motions of linear 
guides. The fourth mode is a rolling vibration of 
platform about the XY plane, dominated by the rolling 
motion of the linear guides. It is obvious that these 
fundamental mode shapes of the platform are closely 
related to the vibration motion of the carriage blocks 
that support the stage.  
The vibration frequencies associated with the four 
vibration modes are summarized in Tables 1, which 
illustrates the variations of the natural frequencies of the 
stage that is mounted on the linear guides with different 
preload levels. This indicates that when the preload state 
of linear guide was adjusted to different rank, the 
positioning system will behave different vibration 
frequency. Such variation in natural frequency can be 
ascribed to the change in contact stiffness of linear 
guide, which also dominate the structural stiffness of the 
loading platform. For the four stages, equipped with the 
linear guides of different preload levels, the structural 
stiffness contributed by the supporting guides are in the 
order, from low to high, case 2 (Z0-), case 1 (Z0), case4 
(ZB-), and case3 (ZB). The stage in case 3, being with 
the highest stiffness, exhibits a highest vibration 
frequency at any mode as compared to the other stages. 
In case 4, the overall stiffness is slightly less than that in 
case 3, enabling the stage with decreased resonance 
frequency. In case 2, the stage can be regarded as a 
damaged one of case 1, and therefore it shows a lower 
vibration frequencies deviating from the values of a 
normal stage with light preloaded guides.   
The modal analysis clearly shows that certain 
relevance exists between natural vibration frequency of 
the positioning stage and the preload state of linear 
guide. As expected, the vibration frequencies of the 
stage will be affected to change, depending on the 
preload state of the supporting guide modules.  
 
4.2 Vibration characteristics in motion 
It is known from modal analysis that the 
fundamental vibration frequencies are in the range of 
370~ 800 Hz. Therefore, we are interested in comparing 
the frequency domain responses within these frequency 
ranges where locally peak amplitude are located. Fig. 4 
presents dynamic vibration characteristics of the 
positioning stage, including vibration time domain and 
FFT frequency domain response. These stages were 
tested under motion at rotational speed of 1500rpm of 
the driven screw. We are interested in comparing the 
frequency domain responses within these frequency 
ranges where locally peak amplitude are located. As 
shown in Fig. 4 (a) and (b), the vibration energy of low 
preloaded stage (case 3) concentrates on 567 and 620Hz,  
while vibration energy of high preloaded stage (case 1) 
concentrates on 576 and 670Hz. For the stage with low 
and high preload linear guides, they indeed demonstrate 
different vibration characteristics, which were due to the 
fact that the contact stiffness of different value was 
generated at the rolling interface due to the various 
oversized steel balls. The high preloaded stage has 
relatively high contact stiffness, thus giving rise to 
increased resonance frequency during motion. 
 
 
 
 
fault with the finite element modeling on the vibration 
characteristics. 
4.3 Acoustic characteristics in motion 
Fig. 5 (a) and (b) present the FFT frequency 
spectrums of the sound signals associated with the low 
and high preloaded stage, respectively. It can be seen 
that the acoustic energy of low preload stage 
concentrates at around 623Hz. But for high preloaded 
stage, the acoustic energy concentrates at 646Hz 
approximately. The main acoustic frequency emitted 
from stage with high preload guides is higher than with 
low preload guides. Similar to the vibration 
characteristics, the acoustic characteristics were also 
affected by the linear guide preload, with the same 
tendency.  
Fig. 5 (c) depicts the sound signal associated with 
the FFT frequency response of the stage with one 
abnormal linear guide (case 2). The acoustic energy is 
mainly distributed in lower frequency of 606Hz as 
compared with the stage that was equipped with well 
linear guide modules of low preload. The acoustic 
spectrum of another abnormal stage (case 4) with an 
uneven preload condition is presented in Fig. 5 (d), 
which indicates the frequency of high acoustic energy is 
at 640 Hz. This value is lower than that emitted from the 
well assembled stage with all high preloaded guides. 
Comparisons of the sound signals in FFT domain 
between the cases (1) and (2) and between the cases (3) 
and (4) clearly indicated that the stage would exhibit 
different acoustic characteristics when part of the guide 
modules were damaged or worn out during operation. 
With this features, the acoustic signal can also be 
employed to detect whether linear guides module was 
operated at well or worse conditions.  
Essentially, the vibration and acoustic signal of a 
positioning stage can be affected to vary by many 
factors. For such linear guides with rolling elements, the 
additional vibration can be caused by the fatigue 
damage of the rolling elements or the raceways (ball 
groove). In this study, the control variable dominating 
the variation of the measurement signal was the preload 
level of the linear guide and the other factors such as the 
ball screw and bearing were maintained at initial 
settings, without any adjustment, during the whole 
experiments. Therefore, the slight variation in vibration 
and acoustic characteristics of the stage can be distinctly 
ascribed to the deviation of the preload of guide 
modulus from initial settings. According to the modal 
analysis, the natural vibration characteristics of the stage 
can be accurately determined by the preload of the 
linear guides. While the in motion vibration and sound 
signal of the stage with different assembled states of the 
linear guides was also found to positively related to the 
preload state of the guide modules. In other words, the 
cause generating the variation of the vibration and 
sound signal can be definitely clarified with the help of 
mechanical analysis. 
In practical application, when preload of linear 
guide changes, the contact stiffness at rolling interface 
will also vary. It in turn causes the stage to exhibit a 
different vibration frequency. At this point, the 
characteristic patterns implied in both the FFT 
frequency domain for vibration signal and acoustic 
signal show the same significance in judging the preload 
state of a positioning system with rolling guide modulus. 
On the other hand, by observing vibration and acoustic 
characteristics of linear stage in different preload states 
of linear guide, we can found that vibration frequency 
spectrum shows more different characteristics, while 
acoustic characteristics revealed in sound spectrum 
appeared to be very distinct without ambiguity. 
Therefore, in judging the preload state of linear guide 
components with a machine, the acoustic detection with 
qualitative analysis has shown apparent significance and 
could provide quick and clear results as compared to the 
vibration analysis. 
5. Conclusions 
This study proposed fault detection of linear 
guides of positioning stage with application of 
vibration-acoustic analysis. The criterion for fault 
detection was established by clarifying the effect of 
variation in preload state of linear guide on vibration 
and acoustic characteristics of linear stage through finite 
element modeling. The finite element predictions and 
vibration tests have shown the stage with different 
preloaded guide modulus exhibited different vibration 
characteristics which could change when the preload of 
linear guide deviated from initial settings. Such 
phenomenon is ascribed to the inconsistence in contact 
stiffness of guide modulus. In comparison with 
vibration characteristics, acoustic characteristics are 
subject to more obvious changes. Therefore, in judging 
whether or not preload state of linear guide components 
in machine changes, variation detection in acoustic 
characteristics may provide quick, clear results, serving 
as the basis for machine maintenance. Compared with 
vibration frequency analysis, acoustic frequency 
analysis appears to have more convenience and 
excellence.  
Acknowledgments 
The work was supported by National Science 
Council in Taiwan through Grant NSC 98-2621-E-167-
004 and Industrial Technology Research Institute, 
respectively. 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月31日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
線性傳動系統之聲紋特徵與振動特性之檢測分析及其相關性研究
洪瑞斌
98 -2221-E -167 -004 - 結構與振動
線性傳動系統之振動聲紋特徵之檢測分析技術
Vibration-acoustic analysis on the fault detection of linear motion
system
國立勤益科技大學 洪瑞斌
本技術乃藉由機台聲紋檢測所獲得時域頻譜中，具有顯著變化區域之特徵值作
為檢驗機台狀態之依據。此種方式較諸於振動頻譜分析，更具創新性，在實務
應用上則更具方便性。技術之重點在於結合電腦輔助工程分析與聲噪量測實驗
，判斷線性滑軌異常狀態導致平臺振動聲紋特性變化之力學意義。根據電腦輔
助分析可以明確預知，線性滑軌預壓狀態確實會影響定位平臺運動中的聲紋特
性。鋼珠缺損或預壓不均時將改變線軌接觸剛性，導致機台振動聲紋頻率降低
或升高。基於此種力學效應即可藉由振動聲紋特徵分析可以檢測機台中線軌內
部元件是否發生異常，以提供作為維修或調校的依據。
The presented technique is developed basing on the vibration acoustic
analysis method to detect the faults of the linear components of a
positioning system. The presented computer aided-analysis method has
verified the relationship between the faulty state and the preload
variation of the linear guides. The stages equipped with abnormal or
damaged linear guides indeed exhibit different vibration behavior
compared to stages with intact guides. This phenomenon was also found
in the acoustic characteristics measured for stages under various
preloaded conditions, providing further correlations between the
variations in acoustic characteristics and changes in structural
stiffness. The present technique clearly shows that faulty conditions
of linear guides can be effectively detected by means of monitoring
the vibration and acoustic characteristics of the stage.機械製造業；電機及電子機械器材業
自動化設備、工具機等定位系統線性傳動元件之故障檢測
具備實驗模組與分析技術，可供技術移轉與實務應用
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
