 2 
???? 
???????????(400~800nm)?????????????????????
???????????????????????????????????????
???? 125m??????? 3m???????? 1475nm ? 1625nm??????X
? LIGA ???????????????????????????????????
???????????????????????????????????????
???????????????????? 
?????????????????
ABSTRACT 
A concave micro-grating designed for the applications in optical communications was fabricated 
by deep X-ray lithographic (DXL) technology. The fabricated micro-grating has a height of 
125m, a grating pitch of 3m, a total of 2584 lines and a sidewall root-mean-square surface 
roughness of 5nm. Designed operational wavelength range is from 1475nm to 1625nm. This 
micro-grating is embedded inside a mirror-planar waveguide to form a spectrometer chip. A 
Rowland circle grating mounting scheme is used for the spectral detection. With a suitable choice 
of blaze angle, the calculated diffraction efficiency of the third order diffraction reaches 65% with 
an Au coating on the grating surface. The measured spectral width is 1.1nm, which is in very 
good agreement with the calculated result of 0.9nm. This chip-based grating device can be used 
as an ultra-compact spectrometer or an ultra-compact wavelength division multiplexer in optical 
communications. Based on this study, our DXL technique can be further developed into X-ray 
LIGA technology for the mass production of such a chip-based spectrometer.  
Keywords?X-ray lithographic (DXL) technology, concave micro-grating. 
INTRODUCTION 
Spectrometers or wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) devices have been widely used in 
many applications, such as bio-chemical analysis, remote sensing, fiber communications, 
bio-sensing, etc. Conventional spectrometer using planar grating is sophisticated in the 
arrangement of optical components. Usually a collimation lens (or mirror) and a focusing lens (or 
mirror) are required for such a planar grating system. In order to reduce the size of a spectrometer, 
schemes using different micro-electro-mechanical system (MEMS) fabrication techniques been 
proposed. Most of these MEMS-based spectrometers involve the use of moving parts to achieve 
energy dispersion, which always couple with problems of mechanical instability. In order to 
reduce the size of a spectrometer and as well as to circumvent the operating problems 
encountered using moving components, we adapt the concept of a concave micro-grating. For our 
 4 
w
d
mF λ++= PBAP               (2) 
where d is the grating line constant; m is the order of diffraction;  is the wavelength of the beam 
being diffracted and w is the y position of point P in the dispersion plane. 
The entrance slit width is the core diameter of the optical fiber, which is 10m. In our 
performance measurement, we used an optical fiber of the same core diameter as the exit slit in 
the image plane to acquire the signals. To achieve a reasonable design, there are certain 
considerations in choosing the rest of the parameters. They are diffraction order m, incident angle 
, exit angle , radius of the Rowland circle R, and angular divergence . Trade-offs have to be 
made between the required spectral resolution and the physical layout of the device. In order to 
optimize the design, we have developed a design flow procedure for the determination of these 
parameters by taking into account of the physical constraints and the required spectral resolution, 
e.g., the size of the chip, the location of the input fiber, the location of the output detecting area, 
the grating pitch, and the required spectral resolution. Using this methodology, we came up with 
the following specifications for our micro-grating in a Rowland circle configuration:  
RAY TRACING 
In order to confirm the results of our calculations, we performed a ray tracing simulation 
using the SHADOW program [6]. Fig. 2 shows the spot diagram of the result The input source (at 
location A in Fig. 1(a)) includes three wavelengths 1549.6nm, 1550.0nm and 1550.4nm (0.4nm 
separation between adjacent wavelengths). A detecting plane in the SHADOW simulator is 
located at output location, which is at focusing condition on the Rowland circle (location Bo at 
Fig. 1(a)). As shown in Fig. 2, we observed that the three input wavelengths are well resolved 
spatially on the Rowland circle. The input source has a size of 10m. As shown in the spot 
distribution of Fig. 2, each output focused beam has a width of 10m (width of the spot 
distribution on the Rowland circle along the meridional direction in Fig. 2 for each wavelength) 
and the separation between adjacent focused beams is 20m. Both these two figures are 
consistent with the results obtained by the aberration calculation using the optical path function 
method mentioned above.  
 
Fig. 2. Result of the ray tracing using SHADOW program.  
 6 
be greatly reduced if an electron-beam writer is used to generate the mask pattern (future research 
issue in this project). After the fabrication of this grating, an Au coating of 80nm is deposited on 
the grating surface to increase the reflectivity in the wavelength range from 1475nm to 1625nm. 
The efficiency calculation shows that the rounding of the blaze causes the diffraction efficiency to 
decrease from 65% to 45%.  
We successfully demonstrated that this technology based on DXL is capable of producing 
grating patterns with very high precision for optical applications. Detail discussion on the 
fabrication process of this cylindrical concave micro-grating using the DXL technology will be 
presented in a separated paper. 
 
(a) 
                                             
  (b) 
Fig. 3. SEM images of the SU-8 micro-grating fabricated by the DXL process. (a) A height of 
125m is achieved. (b) Top-view of the grating.  
RESOLUTION MEASUREMENTS 
The concave micro-grating is embedded inside a mirror-planar waveguide. The mirror-planar 
waveguide consists of two parallel mirrors, which are Si wafers coated with Au (150nm). 
The input wavelengths are fed into the input fiber connected to this grating chip. At the output 
location, an optical fiber with a core size of 10m is used to acquire the diffracted rays from the 
grating. The output fiber is connected to an optical spectrum analyzer (OSA) to analysis the 
spectral properties of the diffracted beam. In this performance test, 21 separated wavelengths 
were fed into the fiber. The fiber at the output area was spatially scanned across the output range. 
The scanned distance is 200m. Total of 21 peaks in the spectrum are clearly resolved with a 
peak-to-peak spectral separation of 0.26nm. 
 3m  
