 2
 
中文摘要 
 
隨著電子產品朝向多功能、多元化、
可攜性與輕巧化，電子構裝元件勢必走向
微小化及微細間距接腳化。 ITRS(2003)預
測於 2010以後電子元件的 I/O間距將降
至 20um。本計畫結合奈米技術及先進製程
技術製作出尖端之奈米金屬線異向性導電
膜 (npACF)，並以此開發出下世代具超細微
間距接腳的 npACF型態覆晶構裝。本計畫
是三年期的研究計畫。 
計畫第一年將著重在進行奈米金屬線
異向性導電膜及下世代先進、具超細微間
距接腳能量的 npACF型態覆晶構裝原型的
製造。另外應用分子動力學進行奈米金屬
線之材料性質模擬。在進一步分析此新型
ACF型態覆晶構裝熱機械行為之前，吾人
必須先掌握其npACF異向性導電膜之等效
熱機械材料性質。本研究將應用混合法則
(the Rule-of-Mixture technique)及以有限元
素法為本(the FEM-based technique)等兩種
方法來探討包括彈性模數、浦松比、熱傳
導係數及熱膨脹係數等之等效熱機械材料
性質。 
計畫第二年主要工作為整合三維有限
元素分析模式（非線性、接觸、暫態）及
網格生死生成技術，提出一套有效的製程
相依熱機械行為分析的策略，以探討此新
型npACF型態覆晶構裝之製程熱機械力學
行為。數值模式的正確性則藉由熱電耦、
太曼格林及雲紋干涉實驗驗證其正確性。
最後，針對相關製程參數對於構裝熱機械
行為影響進行參數化分析。 
計畫第三年主要工作進行此構裝之製
程熱機械行為最佳化設計。方法係藉由參
數化分析找出影響此構裝製程行為最重要
的影響因子。再以回應曲面法搭配面中心
組合設計(Face Central Composite Design，
FCCD)的概念，利用最少的設計點，求取
出目標函數與設計變數間的近似數學模
式，並以此數學模式建構此最佳化問題方
程式，最後則利用數學規劃法求解以求得
此構裝製程熱機械行為最佳化設計之參
數。 
 
關鍵詞：超細微間距接腳電子構裝、奈米
金屬線、異向性導電膜、覆晶構裝技術、
分子動力學、有限元素法、混合法則、製
程模擬、三維有限元素分析、熱電耦、太
曼格林干涉實驗、雷射雲紋干涉實驗、最
佳化設計、回應曲面法、數學規劃法 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
This is a three-year based project. The 
project aims to develop a next-generation, 
advanced, ultra-fine-pitched flip chip (FC) 
technology that contains a 
nanowire/polymer-based anisotropic 
conductive film (npACF). In the year, the  
npACF is manufactured by using the template 
assisted nanowire growth technique using 
anodized aluminum oxide (AAO). The 
nanowires are made of silver (Ag) materials. 
It is then used for construction of a prototype 
of the advanced, ultra-fine-pitched npACF 
typed FC technology. Characterization of the 
mechanical properties of nanowires is of 
great importance for their applications in 
electronics. In this project, the mechanical 
properties of the nanowires are investigated 
through molecular dynamics (MD). Besides, 
the thermal-mechanical properties of the 
npACF are characterized through two 
effective approaches: 1) the proposed Finite 
Element Methods (FEM)-based and 2) the 
rule-of-mixture (ROM) techniques. 
In the second year, the project focuses 
on the thermal-mechanical modeling of the 
process-induced behaviors of the npACF 
typed FC technology during/after bonding 
process. To  achieve the goal, a 
process-dependent simulation methodology 
is proposed, which integrates a  transient 
thermal and a static thermal-mechanical FE 
modeling and a “death-birth” meshing 
scheme.  The validity of the proposed 
methodology is extensively verified through 
several measurement techniques, including a 
micro thermocouple  for  temperature 
measurement, a Twyman-Green (T/W) Moiré 
Interferometry measurement of out-of-plane 
deformation and Portable Engineering Moiré 
Interferometry measurement of in-plane 
deformation. Finally, factors most affecting 
 4
Nanocomposite-Film Typed Flip Chip 
Technology,” Proc. IMPACT2009, 
Taipei, Taiwan, Oct. 21-23. 
 
(二)期刊論文： 
1. H.C. Cheng, Wen-Hwa Chen, 
Chieh-Sheng Lin, Yung-Yu Hsu, and 
Ruoh-Huey Uang, 2009,” On the 
Thermal-mechanical Behaviors of a 
Novel Nanowire-based Anisotropic 
Conductive Film Technology,” IEEE 
Transactions on Advanced Packaging, 
Vol. 32, No. 2, 546-563. May. 
2. W.H. Chen, H.C. Cheng, Y.-C. Hsu, 
R.-H. Uang, J.S. Hsu, 
2008, ”Mechanical Material 
Characterization of Co Nanowires and 
Their Nanocomposite”, Composite 
Science and Technology, 68, 
3388–3395. 
3.  “Structural Optimal Design of a Novel 
Nanocomposite-Film Typed Flip Chip 
Technology Using an Effective Design 
Optimization Methodology,” Submitted 
to Microelectronics Reliablity for 
review. 
 
 
 
此三年研究成果依續報告如下： 
 
1. Mechanical material characterization of 
Co nanowires and their nanocomposite 
 
2. On the Thermal–Mechanical Behaviors 
of a Novel Nanowire-Based Anisotropic 
Conductive Film Technology 
 
3. Design Optimization and Analysis of a 
Novel Nanocomposite-Film Typed Flip 
Chip Technology 
 
 
 
 
 
Author's personal copy
with each other. Moreover, the size dependence of the material
properties is also evaluated, mainly due to surface effects. For eval-
uating the effective material properties of the nanocomposite, an
effective continuum approach based on 3D elasticity and FEM is
established over a range of nanowire-volume fractions. In addition,
a simpliﬁed analytical estimate based on mechanics of materials is
also proposed for determining the effective axial CTE. The obtained
results are compared with those derived using the proposed ana-
lytical model and two conventional theoretical approaches – the
rule-of-mixture (ROM) technique (see, e.g. [15]) and the simpliﬁed
analytical estimates [16–18]. Experimental veriﬁcations of the
proposed FEM-based approach in terms of axial elastic modulus
are also carried out using (1) nanoindentation experiment and
(2) static uniaxial compression testing.
2. The fabrication process of the nanowire-based composite
A polymer-based composite reinforced by thousands of mil-
lions of highly oriented, arrayed Co nanowires is considered as
test vehicle of the investigation. The nanocomposite is fabricated
through the template assisted nanowire growth technique [2]
with an AAO template, followed by a polymer-diffusion process
under a magnetic ﬁeld [19] to make sure nanowires stay in an
upright orientation. The particular template is made by Whatman
Co and comprises nanopores of about 200.0 nanometers (nm) in
diameter, 30.0 lm in length and 50.0 nm in spacing. The nanop-
ores where the nanowires are deposited yield a volume fraction
(f) of 50% of the total template’s cross-section area. The fabrica-
tion process of the Co-nanowire-reinforced polymer composite
is schematically plotted in Fig. 1. For electrical conduction, a thin
Au seed layer is deposited onto one side of the AAO template, and
then Co metal is electrodeposited onto the Au seed layer within
the nanopores of the AAO template. As soon as the electrodepos-
ition of Co nanowires is completed, the AAO template is removed
under a magnetic ﬁeld, followed by a polymer-diffusion process
of a low viscous polyimide into the gaps among nanowires as ma-
trix. After the curing process, laser ablation is performed to elim-
inate excessive polymer resulted from the polymer ﬁlling process.
At last, surface regularity is further improved with ﬁne polish in
order to meet the high surface-regularity demand of nanoinden-
tation testing.
The nanocomposite comprises a dimension of 30.0 lm in thick-
ness and 1.0 centimeter (cm) in diameter. A scanning electron
microscope (SEM) picture of the cross-section of the nanocompos-
ite, after laser ablation and mounting on a 600.0 lm thick sub-
strate, are also presented in Fig. 1f. It is evident that the polymer
is well ﬁtted to the gaps among nanowires, and besides, no bubbles
or cracks are observed.
3. MD simulations
For Co metal, the primary energetically favorable atomic struc-
ture is arranged in an HCP (Hexagonal Close-Packed) unit cell. The
side dimension of a hexagonal base is 2.507 Å. By assembly of the
unit cell, a Co nanowire with an HCP structure is constructed.
Based on the continuum mechanics assumption, the axial elastic
modulus and Poisson’s ratio of a Co nanowire can be derived
through a uniaxial tension test.
In the investigation, the embedded-atom method (EAM) (e.g.
[20]) is adopted to model the atomistic interactions among Co
atoms. The method has been successfully applied to simulate the
structure, surface and phase transformation of solid or liquid met-
als [21,22]. The calculated results from MD simulations are dis-
crete; thus, the deﬁnition of stress under the continuum
mechanics assumption would not be quite adequate for use in this
study. In measuring stresses on atoms, the smoothed particle
hydrodynamics (SPH) technique (Shen and Atluri [23]) is applied
in the investigation.
4. Effective modeling of the nanocomposite
The equivalent thermal-mechanical material properties of the
nanocomposite that is a binary material composed of a huge num-
ber of nanowires (over 400,000,000) embedded in a polymer ma-
trix are evaluated using an effective approach. It can be
considered as a composite structure with a periodical array of
microstructures, each of which comprises one metal nanowire
and partial polymer matrix (i.e., PI). These periodic microstructures
are termed here ‘‘repetitive local structures” (RLSs). At both global
and local scale, the nanocomposite as well as the RLSs possesses
transverse isotropy, where material properties along the ﬁber (ax-
ial) direction are different from those of the transverse. In princi-
ple, the effective material properties of an RLS, as shown in
Fig. 2, can represent those of the nanocomposite. Hence, the effec-
tive material properties of the Co-nanowire-based nanocomposite
are evaluated using an RLS based on several theoretical ap-
proaches, including the currently proposed approach, which is
termed the FEM-based approach, and analytical model, existing
analytical methods [16–18], and the widely used ROM technique.
It should be noted that in the derivation, both Co-nanowires and
PI matrix are assumed isotropic.
4.1. The FEM-based approach
In assessing the effective material properties of the RLS by
using the ROM technique and existing analytical models, simpli-
fying assumptions are generally necessary due to their incapabil-
(a) Deposition of Au seed layer
AAO Template 
Au electrode
(b) Nanowire electroplating
Magnetic Field 
(c) AAO removal and 
nanowire alignment
(d) Polymer filling(e) Removal of seed electrode 
and polymer by polish 
(f) Nanowire-based composite 
Fig. 1. A schematic plot of the fabrication process of the nanowire-based composite.
W.-H. Chen et al. / Composites Science and Technology 68 (2008) 3388–3395 3389
Author's personal copy
respectively, on the matrix and nanowire should be null, resulting
in the following relation:
FCo ¼ FPI ¼ ðaPI  aCoÞðDTÞECoACoEPIAPIECoACo þ EPIAPI ; ð14Þ
Furthermore, the relation of axial loading and deformation gives
the resultant deformation of the RLS,
d ¼ ðaCoECoACo þ aPIEPIAPIÞðDTÞL
ECoACo þ EPIAPI ; ð15Þ
Accordingly, the effective axial CTE can be expressed as
az ¼ aCoECoACo þ aPIEPIAPIECoACo þ EPIAPI ; ð16Þ
Since ACo= A
^
¼ n and API= A
^
¼ 1 n, Eq. (16) can be rewritten
as
az ¼ aConECo þ aPIð1 nÞEPInECo þ ð1 nÞEPI : ð17Þ
where ECo (EPI) and aCo (aPI) are the elastic modulus and CTE of Co
metal (PI matrix), respectively. Eq. (17) gives exactly the same
equation as that of Schapery [17]. Furthermore, the effective trans-
verse CTE expression given in [17] derived using an energy ap-
proach, the approximate effective transverse elastic modulus
presented in [16] obtained from an available elasticity solution for
multiple-inclusion problems, and the approximate effective trans-
verse thermal conductivity provided in [18] derived based on an
effective-medium approach analogous to the well-known self-con-
sistent method are employed for comparison.
5. Experimental testing
5.1. Nanoindentation testing
In the investigation, the nanoindentation measurement tech-
nique is applied to evaluate the longitudinal elastic modulus of
the nanocomposite so as to verify the predicted, theoretical data.
To perform imaging and nanoindentation testing, a nanoindenta-
tion system incorporating with an atomic force microscope
(AFM) is applied. It is a Hysitron Triboscope nanoindentation sys-
tem equipped with a three-sided pyramid Berkovich diamond tip
with a tip radius 150.0 nm. The force and displacement resolutions
are about 1.0 nN and 0.04 nm, respectively. In addition, an SEM is
applied to examine the surface roughness of the nanocomposite.
Prior to the experiment, the shape of the indentor tip is calibrated
by a standard quartz specimen. To examine whether the testing is
made at the anticipated area, post-test imaging is performed. In-
situ indents are then carried out under force control mode, and
the associated indent proﬁles are imaged using the same tip soon
after indentation.
5.2. Uniaxial compression testing
We also present the axial elastic modulus of the nanocomposite
derived using static uniaxial compression testing in order to further
validate the results of the nanoindentation testing and theoretical
analysis. In the testing, a micro-tester, Instron 8848, is responsible
for the compression test. The dimension of the nanocomposite
specimen is 6.75  6.75  0.030 (mm3). The micro-tester equipped
with a 2.0 mmdiameter circular ﬂat punch carries out themeasure-
ment by compressing a much larger area of the nanocomposite
rather than just a single nanowire or avery tiny indented area as
nanoindentation testing. During the compression progress, the
force–displacement relationship is recorded. By the slope of the
force–displacement curve, the effective axial elastic modulus of
the nanocomposite can be calculated.
6. Results and discussions
6.1. Experimental testing
6.1.1. Nanoindentation testing
The elastic modulus and hardness of the Co nanowire and
nanocomposite ﬁlm along the axial direction are probed with
nanoindentation and in-situ AFM. To ease measurement uncer-
tainty, a total of seven nanoindentation experiments at randomly
selected locations are attempted when characterizing the effec-
tive elastic modulus of the nanocomposite. The arithmetic mean
value of these seven measurement results and the associated
standard deviation are presented. On the other hand, only one at-
tempt is made when exploring that of the Co nanowire due to the
difﬁculty in precisely aligning the indent tip with the nanowire.
Fig. 3a shows a 3D AFM scanning image of an indent mark on
the nanocomposite ﬁlm, and Fig. 3b presents that on the nano-
wire, where the indentation is clearly made right on the top
surface of a Co nanowire.
Fig. 4a illustrates the force–displacement curve of the nanoin-
dentation of the Co nanowire, where the peak compressive force
is about 100 lN and the peak depth is 23.4 nm. The reduced mod-
ulus Er in accordance with Fig. 4a is about 183.2 GPa, which corre-
sponds to an elastic modulus of 191.4 GPa, and the hardness is
about 5.2 GPa. The literature data for the bulk Co metal is about
211.0 GPa (http://www.matweb.com), which is slightly larger than
that of the Co nanowire. Furthermore, an example of the force–dis-
placement curves of the nanoindentation of the nanocomposite is
shown in Fig. 4b, where the average peak compressive force is
about 4000 lN and the average peak depth is approximately
180.0 nm. The arithmetic mean value of the axial elastic modulus
of the seven measurement attempts together with the associated
standard deviation is 117.4 ± 9.7 GPa, and that of the hardness
and the associated standard deviation is 5.9 ± 0.9 GPa.
6.1.2. Static uniaxial compression testing
Results show that there is a linear relationship between the
compressive load and deﬂection in the static uniaxial compression
testing of the nanocomposite. To lessen measurement uncertainty,
a total of ﬁve uniaxial compression experiments at randomly
selected locations are performed in the investigation. The arithme-
tic mean value of these ﬁve measurement results and the associ-
ated standard deviation are used to indicate the effective axial
elastic modulus of the nanocomposite. It is found that the effective
elastic modulus along the axial direction is 104.4 ± 11.3 GPa. By
comparing the result with that of the nanoindentation experiment
(i.e., 117.4 ± 9.7 GPa), as much as about 11% discrepancy can be
detected.
Fig. 3. A 3D AFM scanning image of indent mark on (a) the nanocomposite ﬁlm and
(b) the nanowire.
W.-H. Chen et al. / Composites Science and Technology 68 (2008) 3388–3395 3391
Author's personal copy
axial CTE (Fig. 10a) and the transversematerial properties (Figs. 7b–
10b) tend to have a nonlinear proportion to the nanoﬁber-volume
fraction, where it even presents a nonlinear, nonmonotonic depen-
dence of the transverse CTE on the nanoﬁber-volume fraction. The
transverse CTE increases with the nanoﬁber-volume fraction as it
is less than about 10%, and becomes a totally opposite trend as it is
0
Dimension (nm)
200
240
280
320
360
El
as
tic
 m
od
ul
us
 (G
P a
)
0
Dimension (nm)
0.33
0.34
0.35
0.36
Po
iss
on
's 
ra
tio
(a) Elastic modulus (b) Poisson’s ratio
642 642
Fig. 6. The elastic material properties of the Co cubic hexagons versus the side dimension.
0 20 40 60
Volume Ratio (%)
0
40
80
120
160
E z
(G
P a
)
The FEM-based
The ROM
The Nanoidentation Exp.
The Micro Tester Test
0 20 40 60
Volume Ratio (%)
0
4
8
12
16
E x
,y
(G
P a
)
The FEM-based
The ROM
The Analytical [16]
(a) Axial (b) Transverse 
Fig. 7. The effective elastic moduli versus volume ratio of the nanowires.
0 20 40 60
Volume Ratio (%)
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
x
z
The FEM-Based
The ROM
0 20 40 60
Volume Ratio (%)
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
The FEM-Based
The ROM
(a) Axial (b) Transverse
V x
,y
V
Fig. 8. The effective Poisson’s ratio versus volume ratio of the nanowires.
W.-H. Chen et al. / Composites Science and Technology 68 (2008) 3388–3395 3393
Author's personal copy
CTE. The results also reveal that the widely used ROM technique
can be a robust and effective tool in assessing the effective axial
material properties, mainly because they present a ‘‘linear-like”
relationship with the nanoﬁber-volume fraction. For the trans-
versely isotropic nanocomposite, the effective axial elastic moduli
and thermal conductivities are greater than the corresponding
transverse ones over the range of nanoﬁber-volume fraction; on
the other hand, for the effective CTE, the axial ones become less
than the associated transverse. More surprisingly, the nanocom-
posites consist of an equivalent Poisson’s ratio along the axial
and transverse directions. Besides, the degree of anisotropy in
the derived effective elastic modulus and thermal conductivity as
a result of the Co ﬁlament turns out to be much more considerable
than that of the effective Poisson’s ratio and CTE.
Acknowledgment
The authors are grateful to the National Science Council, Tai-
wan, R.O.C., under grants NSC95-2221-E-035-018-MY3 and
NSC95-2221-E-007-013-MY3 for the partial ﬁnancial supports of
this work.
References
[1] ChenWH, Cheng HC, Hsu YC. Mechanical properties of carbon nanotubes using
molecular dynamics simulations with the inlayer van der Waals interactions.
Comp Model Eng Sci 2007;20:123–45.
[2] Morales AM, Lieber CM. A laser ablation method for the synthesis of crystalline
semiconductor nanowires. Science 1998;279:208–11.
[3] Yin AJ, Li J, Jian W, Bennett AJ, Xu JM. Fabrication of highly ordered metallic
nanowire arrays by electrodeposition. Appl Phys Lett 2001;79:1039–41.
[4] Lin YM, Rabin O, Cronin SB, Ying JY, Dresselhaus MS. Semimetal–
semiconductor transition in Bi1xSbx alloy nanowires and their thermo-
electric properties. Appl Phys Lett 2002;81:2403–5.
[5] Cho J, Luo JJ, Daniel IM. Mechanical characterization of graphite/epoxy nano-
composites by multi-scale analysis. Compos Sci Technol 2007;67:2399–407.
[6] Kanagaraj S, Varanda FR, Zhil’tsova TV, Oliveira MSA, Simoes JAO. Mechanical
properties of high density polyethylene/carbon nanotube composites. Compos
Sci Technol 2007;67:3071–7.
[7] Zhang J, Wu T, Wang L, Jiang W, Chen L. Microstructure and properties of
Ti3SiC2/SiC nanocomposites fabricated by spark plasma sintering. Compos Sci
Technol 2008;68:499–505.
[8] Ashraﬁ B, Hubert P. Modeling the elastic properties of carbon
nanotube array/polymer composites. Compos Sci Technol 2006;66:
387–96.
[9] González C, LLorca J. Mechanical behavior of unidirectional ﬁber-reinforced
polymers under transverse compression: microscopic mechanisms and
modeling. Compos Sci Technol 2007;67:2795–806.
[10] Frankland SJV, Harik VM, Odegard GM, Brenner DW, Gates TS. The stress–
strain behavior of polymer–nanotube composites from molecular dynamics
simulation. Compos Sci Technol 2003;63:1655–61.
[11] Branicio PS, Rino JP. Large deformation and amorphization of Ni nanowires
under uniaxial strain: a molecular dynamics study. Phys Rev B
2000;62:16950–5.
[12] Wu HA. Molecular dynamics simulation of loading rate and surface effects on
the elastic bending behavior of metal nanorod. Comput Mater Sci
2004;31:287–91.
[13] Cho JU, Wu JH, Min JH, Ko SP, Soh JY, Liu QX, et al. Control of
magnetic anisotropy of Co nanowires. J Magn Magn Mater 2006;303:
e281–5.
[14] Yuan J, Pei W, Hasagawa T, Washiya T, Saito H, Ishio S, et al. Study on
magnetization reversal of cobalt nanowire arrays by magnetic force
microscopy. J Magn Magn Mater 2008;320:134–9.
[15] Boresi PB, Chong KP. Elasticity in engineering mechanics. New York: John
Wiley & Sons Inc.; 2000.
[16] Whitney JM. Elastic moduli of unidirectional composites with anisotropic
ﬁlaments. J Compos Mater 1967;1:188–93.
[17] Schapery RA. Thermal expansion coefﬁcients of composite material based on
energy principles. J Compos Mater 1968;2:380–404.
[18] Markworth AJ. The transverse thermal conductivity of a unidirectional ﬁber
composite with ﬁber–matrix debonding: a calculation based on effective-
medium theory. J Mater Sci Lett 1993;12:1487–9.
[19] Lin RJ, Hsu YY, Fan RC, Chen YC, Cheng SY, Huang CT, Uang RH. Design of
nanowire anisotropic conductive ﬁlm for ultra-ﬁne pitch ﬂip chip
interconnection. Electronics packaging technology conference. Singapore:
IEEE; 2004. pp. 120–5.
[20] Pasianot R, Savino EJ. Embedded-atom-method interatomic potentials for hcp
metals. Phys Rev B 1992;45:12704–10.
[21] Wang G, Strachan A, Cagin T, Goddard III WA. Molecular dynamics
simulations of 1/2 h111i screw dislocation in Ta. Mater Sci Eng A 2001;
309–310:133–7.
[22] Han XJ, Wang JZ, Chen M, Guo ZY. Molecular dynamics simulation of
thermophysical properties of undercooled liquid cobalt. J Phys Condes
Matter 2004;16:2565–74.
[23] Shen S, Atluri SN. Atomic-level stress calculation and continuum-molecular
system equivalence. Comp Model Eng Sci 2004;6:91–104.
W.-H. Chen et al. / Composites Science and Technology 68 (2008) 3388–3395 3395
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 547
lateral electrical conduction when I/O pitch reaches 40 m
and is thus less promising for use in ultra-fine-pitched inter-
connection. Besides, an excessive contact pressure may cause
the failure of these fine particles, leading to the incapability
of keeping the required electrical performance, especially at
elevated temperature. On the other hand, the NCF/NCA can be
more applicable for use in I/O pitch below 40 m (even down
to 30 m) because of the nonexistence of the fine electrically
conductive particles. Even with the appealing feature, the
technology is currently still unable to fully solve the reliability
issue [5] due to its lack of structural compliance to adapt to
the expansion of the NCA/NCF at elevated temperature. Other
possible solutions include the use of high aspect-ratio metal
posts or flakes instead of conductive particles [6], [7]. Unfor-
tunately, there are also some technical limitations on these two
technologies. For example, they may not be as reliable as the
conventional particle-based ACF/ACA at elevated temperature
due to the less structural compliance of the metal posts or
flakes. In addition, there also present certain challenges for
the metal posts to achieve a very high aspect ratio because of
the limitation of the standard photolithography technique. To
release these technical difficulties, a cobalt-nanowire/polymer
composite ACF [8] together with an NCA technology [5]
has been developed to form ultra-fine-pitched and reliable
interconnects of IC bumps on substrates. The novel packaging
technology consists of some potential advantages, such as high
structural compliance due to the high aspect-ratio nanowires,
ultra-fine pitch, and excellent electrical conduction due to the
highly-oriented, 1-D quantum confinement of the nanowires.
As a new technology as such, the success of the novel
technology could be primarily dependent on their process-in-
duced, thermal–mechanical characteristics during the bonding
process. For example, the magnitude of contact stresses on
the bumps determines the electrical performance and the level
of thermal–mechanical stresses on the adhesive after bonding
process affects the structural integrity of the bonding line.
Some failure mechanisms can be observed in the bonding line
of the technology, including the delamination failure along the
NCA interfaces, loss of electrical contact, and long-standing
fatigue fracture on the bumps. In addition, the warpage of
substrate would be the main cause of the so-called “Mura”
phenomenon in TFT-LCD panel [3], which would generally
downgrade production yield. Thus, this paper aims to explore
the process-induced, thermal–mechanical behaviors of the
novel technology during bonding process and temperature
elevation through numerical modeling and experimental vali-
dation. To fulfill the goal, the FC packaging that employs the
novel Ag-nanowire polymer composite ACF [8] as an intercon-
nect material is constructed. It is termed ACF technology
throughout the study. Unlike the conventional ACF technology,
the ACF is simply used as an electrical passage between the
chip and substrate by means of those embedded Ag nanowires,
while the structural bonding of the chip, ACF, and substrate
is achieved through an NCA. The state behaviors that are
targeted on in the investigation include the contact stress on
the bumps, the peeling stress on the NCA, and the warpage of
the substrate and the chip. It is noted that the contact stress is
applied for assessing the overall electrical performance while
Fig. 1. ACF technology.
Fig. 2. Fabrication process of an ACF.
the peeling stress for examining the structural integrity of the
NCA. The peeling stress is defined as a normal tensile stress
normal to the bonding plane, which tends to rip off the NCA
from the chip.
II. ACF TECHNOLOGY
A. Configuration of Technology
The structure of the ACF technology is shown in Fig. 1.
It is quite simple and consists of four major components: an IC
chip with micro-bumps, a circuit substrate with electrodes, an
ACF with millions of Ag nanowire arrays, and an NCA. The
ACF is basically an Ag nanowire-reinforced polymer com-
posite film. It presents a great structural compliance as a result
of the highly flexible nanowires and polymer matrix and can
be very suitable for the present application. The micro-bumps
are formed in wafer level process using standard electroplating
technique. The IC chip with Cu micro-bumps, the ACF, and
the circuit substrate with electrodes are mechanically bonded to-
gether using the NCA, where the electrical channel between the
Cu bumps on the IC chip and the opposing electrodes on the cir-
cuit substrate is facilitated by means of these Ag nanowire arrays
embedded in the ACF. Because of the substantial contrac-
tion of the NCA during hardening and temperature cooling in
thermal-compression process, and also the elastic deformations
of these Ag nanowires, a reliable pressure contact is established
at the bump ACF-electrode interface along the bonding line.
Since the ACF and the mating bumps and electrodes are not
fastened fully, it yields a more compliant joining mechanism, as
compared to the conventional solder joint-type FC technology.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 549
Fig. 6. SEM micrographs of (left) side view and (right) contact interface.
To eliminate excessive polymer spilled out during the polymer
filling process, laser ablation is performed.
The dimension of the nanowire-reinforced polymer com-
posite film is 30 m in thickness and 1 cm in diameter. Fig. 3(b)
shows a scanning electron microscope (SEM) picture of an
ACF, after laser ablation and mounting on a 60- m thick
substrate. It is evident that the polymer is well filled into
the gaps among nanowires, where no bubbles or cracks are
detected.
C. NCA Bonding Process
By way of an NCA bonding process, a silicon chip with Cu
micro-bumps, an ACF, and a circuit substrate with elec-
trodes are assembled together to construct an ACF–typed
FC package. The NCA bonding process applied is illustrated
in Fig. 4. First of all, a certain amount of NCA is deposited
onto the silicon chip, and then a piece of ACF is placed on
the top of the NCA and pressed against the silicon chip. The
NCA is then cured using a prebonder to achieve temporary
binding of the polymer composite film and the chip. Soon after
some NCA is also deposited onto the substrate, the silicon chip
attached with a piece of ACF is flipped, aligned, and pressed
to the circuit substrate through a main bonder. The bonding
head of the main bonder imposes two different loadings to
the package: 1) an external bonding pressure and 2) a thermal
loading, which is a constant temperature load. The thermal
loading is responsible for thermally setting the NCA while the
external bonding pressure for accomplishing solid contact at the
interconnects (i.e., at the bump/ ACF and ACF/electrode
interfaces) before the NCA is cured, correcting the possible
nonuniformity of the composite film, Cu bumps and electrodes,
and demolishing the oxidation layer of the metals that are
forced into contact. The required curing time is dependent on
the magnitude of the thermal loading and the chemical proper-
ties of the NCA. Typically, 5 15 seconds are required. Finally,
the external bonding pressure is released, and the package is
cooled down to room temperature.
Fig. 5 shows a prototype of an ACF–typed FC package,
fabricated through the aforementioned NCA bonding process on
a silicon substrate. The package is embedded with a rectangular
chip of size 6.75 6.75 0.625 mm (length times width times
thickness) and 81 I/Os with a pitch of 0.55 mm. The diameter
of the Cu bumps is 180 m and the thickness is 30 m. The
electrodes on the circuit substrate are also made of Cu, and their
dimension is identical to the Cu bumps. The size of the circuit
substrate is 27 27 0.56 mm. The NCA applied is a thermoset
type of adhesive in which chemical bonds are formed during
the heat cure stage. The cross section of the package along the
bonding line is shown in Fig. 6. It can be clearly observed that
there is good and solid contact among the Cu bumps, ACF,
and electrodes. It should be noted particularly that the packaging
that is used as a test vehicle for subsequent thermal–mechanical
simulations and testing applies a BT (Bismaleimide Triazine)
substrate that consists of two layers of Cu signal layers, each of
which is with a thickness of 18 m.
III. MOLECULAR DYNAMICS SIMULATION
In the global physical world, continuum mechanics is com-
monly applied to describe most mechanical properties of bulk
materials. As for nano-materials, the theory may not be adequate
mainly due to the possible quantum and boundary (surface) ef-
fects and less material imperfection as a result of cracks. In-
stead, quantum mechanics, molecular mechanics, or molecular
dynamics (MD) are more compelling and sound in describing
the behaviors of nanomaterials. Quantum mechanics is a crucial
principle to depict the physical behaviors of electrons, atoms,
or little molecules, where their motion and distribution are de-
noted by the wave equation. However, the calculation of the mo-
tion of Ag atoms in a nanowire through the principle would not
be practical because an Ag nanowire generally comprises hun-
dreds of thousands of Ag atoms. On the other hand, MD turns
out to be much more effective for dealing with a larger molec-
ular system because of the neglect of the motion of electrons
and is thus applied herein. MD is theoretically termed a particle
method because it directly deals with particle dynamics based
on the Newton’s second law. The interactions between atoms
are defined according to some analytical or empirical potential
functions. As a consequence, the atomistic interaction forces are
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 551
Fig. 9. ACF and a representative unit micro-cell.
role in the thermal performance of the package. Thoroughly per-
forming a detailed modeling of these components, particularly
the nanowires, while still managing to maintain a considerable
size of FE mesh implies great challenges. It is of importance
to undertake certain simplification in the numerical modeling
but at the same time retaining solution accuracy. Thus, effective
modeling is carried out in the investigation.
The ACF can be considered a composite structure with a
periodic array of microstructures, each of which is composed of
one metal nanowire and a part of polymer matrix (i.e., PI). The
periodic microstructures are termed here “unit micro-cells.” A
schematic plot of a unit micro-cell is shown in Fig. 9. Basically,
the material properties of a representative unit micro-cell, also
denoting those of the ACF, are by no means isotropic, where
the material properties along the axial direction would be dif-
ferent from those of the transverse. In the present paper, two
simple theoretical approaches are applied, including the rule-of-
mixture (ROM) technique based on mechanics of materials (see,
e.g., [14]) and the proposed FEM-based approach. It should
be noted that the derivation assumes an isotropic nanowire and
polymer matrix. The results obtained from these two approaches
are compared with each other. On the other hand, the effective
material properties of the circuit substrate, consisting of two
layers of complicated Cu runners, are only assessed by the ROM
technique due to the lack of repetitive micro-structures on it.
A. ROM Technique
1) Effective Properties of ACF: In this paper, the effective
axial thermal conductivity and elastic modulus of a representa-
tive unit micro-cell are first calculated by the ROM technique.
The ROM technique is a simple algorithm to explore the effec-
tive material properties of a composite material. It represents
a simple linear variation of seeming material properties from
the mixture of materials as the volume (or thickness, area) goes
from 0.0 to 1.0.
Few fundamental assumptions are made in the ROM ap-
proach for evaluating the effective material properties of
composite materials. In addition to the assumptions of the
neglect of the multi-axial stress state in the matrix due to fiber
restraint and the neglect of the multiaxial heat flux, the others
include: 1) for determination of the effective elastic modulus
of a composite material along the fiber direction, the strains
Fig. 10. “Equivalent” unit micro-cell.
along the composite fiber direction are the same as those along
the matrix; 2) for derivation of the effective elastic modulus
transverse to the fiber, the same transverse stresses are assumed
to be applied to both the fiber and the matrix; 3) for exploration
of the effective thermal conductance of a composite material
along the fiber direction, the amount of heat passing through
the cross-sectional area of the composite material at one time
is the sum of the heat passing through the cross section of the
fiber and matrix simultaneously; and 4) for calculation of the
effective thermal conductance of a composite material along
the direction transverse to the fiber, the amount of heat across
one layer at one time is equal to that passing by the other layers.
Basically, the first and third ones assume that the fiber and
matrix are joined in parallel and the others in series. Based on
the principle of the ROM technique, the effective axial elastic
modulus , the effective axial thermal conductivity , and
the effective axial coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE)
of the unit micro-cell can be simply written as
(5)
(6)
(7)
where is the volume ratio of the nanowire in the unit micro-
cell, , , and are the elastic modulus, thermal con-
ductivity, and CTE of the Ag nanowire, and , , and
are the elastic modulus, thermal conductivity, and CTE of the
polymer matrix, respectively.
As for the calculation of the effective transverse elastic mod-
ulus, thermal conductivity, and CTE, it is a bit more complicated
than that of the axial one. To deal with the problem using the
ROM technique, a minor modification on the aforementioned
methodology is necessary. In the calculation, the original round
metal nanowire is modeled by an equivalent square shape, but
with the same area. Then, the cross section of the unit micro-cell
can be divided into three zones, as shown in Fig. 10, the central
one of which is further divided into three segments, two of them
(the top and bottom in Fig. 10) standing for the polymer matrix
and the other (the central in Fig. 10) denoting the Ag nanowire.
The volume (area) ratio of the nanowire and the polymer matrix
in the central zone is : and that of the central zone and
the other two zones (left and right) is also : . To de-
rive the effective in-plane elastic modulus along the -axis ,
equivalent to that of the -axis due to geometric symmetry,
a suppositional external loading is imposed on the micro-cell
along the -axis. With the external loading, these three segments
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 553
By the equation, the effective transverse thermal conductivity
can be written as
(21)
Likewise, the effective axial thermal conductivity can be also
derived as
(22)
where and denotes the total heat flux on the -plane
and the -plane, respectively, and the width and length of
the unit micro-cell, and , the temperature difference
between two parallel sides along the transverse and axial di-
rections, respectively. The calculation procedure is briefed as
follows. First of all, a temperature difference is imposed at the
two parallel surfaces of the unit micro-cell while setting the
rest of surfaces adiabatic. Next, the resultant heat flux at one of
the surfaces is calculated. Finally, by substituting the resultant
heat flux into (21) and (22), the effective CTEs are calculated
correspondingly.
V. PROCESS-DEPENDENT THERMAL–MECHANICAL MODELING
A process-dependent thermal–mechanical FE simulation
methodology [5] is applied for characterizing the thermal–me-
chanical behaviors of the novel package during the NCA
bonding process and temperature elevation. The approach inte-
grates 3-D nonlinear FE approximation and the “death–birth”
meshing technique ANSYS. According to the aforemen-
tioned NCA bonding process, both thermal and mechanical
loadings are imposed on the package. As a result, the cur-
rent modeling approach would comprise both thermal and
thermal–mechanical FE analyses. To confirm the validity of
the approach applied, the modeled temperature is compared
with the thermocouple measurement data, and the modeled
process-induced deformations are directly compared with
those obtained from two typical interferometric displacement
measurement methods.
A. Process-Dependent FE Simulation Procedure
The thermal–mechanical behaviors of the package would
change with the fabrication sequences during bonding process.
In the process-dependent FE modeling, all the major NCA
bonding sequences aforementioned are sequentially modeled,
except the solidification of the NCA since its material strength
is considered very weak during hardening. Hence, its contri-
bution to the thermal–mechanical behaviors of the package is
considered negligible.
Based on the NCA bonding process, the process-dependent
FE simulation procedure can be divided into four main simu-
lation steps, involving four static thermal–mechanical and one
transient thermal FE analyses. The details of the procedure are
briefly depicted as follows. The first simulation step is to model
the thermal-compression bonding process. At the step, both
mechanical and thermal loadings are simultaneously imposed
on the package through the bonding head of a main bonder.
Accordingly, it involves one transient thermal and one static
thermal–mechanical FE simulation. The former is used for cal-
culating the temperature distribution of the package when the
thermal loading is applied for thermally setting the NCA and
the latter for deriving the corresponding thermal–mechanical
behaviors based on the temperature field just derived and the
external mechanical loading. The modeling does not take the
NCA into account since it has not yet been cured; however,
the air component does get involved in the transient thermal
FE modeling. The second simulation step is to model the
activation of the NCA soon after it is fully cured. Hence, the
NCA component is included in the modeling at the step. At
the third simulation step, which is to model the release of the
external loading, the handling station is removed, resulting
in the exclusion of the contact physics between the handling
station and the substrate. The last simulation step is to model
the cooling process of the fabricated package. At that step, the
thermal–mechanical FE modeling applied at the third simula-
tion step remains.
In the investigation, the simulations are carried out using
detailed 3-D solid modeling. It is also assumed that the NCA
is considered fully cured at the second bonding step. Fur-
thermore, significant stress/strain concentration fields that are
highly mesh-sensitive may be generated in the simulations,
particularly at the zones around abrupt geometry and material
changes. For easing the difficulties, these state behaviors are
evaluated in an averaging manner using an averaging tech-
nique [15].
B. FE Modeling
According to the process-dependent FE simulation pro-
cedure aforementioned, both transient thermal FE and static
thermal–mechanical FE analyses are included. In the transient
thermal FE modeling, natural convection, radiation, and con-
duction heat transfers are all taken into account to describe the
surface heat transfer of the package. Moreover, the thermal
modeling includes all the major components of the package,
such as the chip, ACF, substrate, micro-bumps and the
mating electrodes, NCA, and also a part of handling station
of the main bonder. Since the dimension of the bonding head
applied is larger than that of the chip, the air layer among the
bonding head, chip, and substrate is also considered in the
modeling. Due to its trivial thickness (about 0.625 mm), the
modeling of the heat transfer activity at the region is simplified
through heat conduction, where a typical air thermal conduc-
tivity 0.03 (Watt/mK) is used.
Two thermal FE models associated with two different types
of ACF-typed FC specimens, one standard as shown in Fig. 1
and one simplified as shown in Fig. 12, are performed in the
thermal characterization. The latter one is used only for the in
situ temperature measurement. As can be seen in the tempera-
ture measurement setup in Fig. 12, several thermocouple wires
have to be inserted into the interfaces between the chip with an
ACF and the substrate and between the substrate and the steel
bonding station. Consequently, the NCA on the substrate side
would not be considered in the FE modeling of the simplified
one but included in that of the standard ACF-type FC spec-
imen. Table I lists the thermal properties of materials, including
specific heat and thermal conductivity. Due to symmetry, only a
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 555
TABLE I
MATERIAL PROPERTIES
Fig. 13. Location of the thermocouples.
requires the measured surface of the object to be glossy. Ac-
cordingly, the top surface of the chip is electroplated with a thin
layer of Au alloy prior to the measurement. The resolution of
the TGMI can be up to 0.316 m. For details of the principle of
the TGMI and PEMI techniques, the reader is referred to [15]
and [19]. For measuring a small test specimen, the sensitivity of
interferometers needs to be enhanced. In general, it can be im-
proved through the integration of a phase-shifting technique to
improve displacement sensitivity.
VII. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
A. Elastic Properties of Ag Nanowires
The elastic modulus and Poisson’s ratio of Ag nanomate-
rials are explored. The computational model for Ag nano ma-
terial consists of a comparable number of FCC unit structures
in all three directions. In other words, the computational model
is in a cubic shape. The underlying idea of that is to lessen the
disagreement between the loading direction and the parameter
that is to be changed. Fig. 14 presents the axial elastic mod-
ulus as a function of the side length of cubic Ag nano mate-
rial. The axial elastic modulus decreases with the increase of
the side length, starting from about 135 GPa and eventually ap-
proaching a converged limit (74.1 GPa) as the side length ex-
ceeds approximately 1.5 nm. The size-dependent variation of
Fig. 14. Elastic modulus and Poisson’s ration of cubic Ag nano materials
versus side length.
the apparent elastic moduli of nanoscale materials is theoreti-
cally due to the free surface effect. It is found that the modeled
data are in a good agreement with the previously reported data
(roughly 60 140 GPa) by atomic force microscope [20]–[23].
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 557
Fig. 19. Temperature profiles at different interfaces versus processing time.
C. Temperature Validation by Thermocouple Measurement
The temperature at the interfaces between the chip and sub-
strate and between the substrate and the steel bonding station is
explored through the thermocouple measurement in accordance
with the testing set up shown in Fig. 13. The measured and mod-
eled temperature profiles at these two reference points are shown
in Fig. 19. It shows that due to the preheat, the initial temperature
at the chip-substrate interface is about 60 C and about 55 C at
the substrate-steel station interface. Furthermore, after about a
30-s heating, the temperatures at these two interfaces attains a
steady-state temperature. It turns out that the modeled temper-
ature follows closely with the measured one nearly throughout
the process time. In addition, the temperature at the chip-sub-
strate interface is larger than that at the substrate-steel station
interface. The results alternatively reveal the effectiveness of the
proposed transient thermal FE modeling.
D. In-Plane Deformation Validation Under Temperature
Swing
The PEMI measurement is used to measure the net in-plane
deformations of the novel package under a temperature swing.
For facilitating the measurement using the PEMI technique, the
specimen is first heated up to 90 C from ambient temperature,
i.e., 21 C, resulting in a temperature swing of C.
A crossed-line diffraction grating is replicated on the surface of
the cross section of the package at the temperature. Soon after
the diffraction grating is attached, the specimen is cooled down
to room temperature for undertaking the PEMI measurement.
By the fringe orders captured from the PEMI technique, the as-
sociated - and -displacement fields can be extracted.
The captured fringe patterns by the PEMI technique along
the and displacement fields across the package are shown
in Fig. 20, together with the displacement contour plots ob-
tained from the FE modeling. By looking into these two results,
Fig. 20. Measured fringe patterns versus the modeled displacement contours.
TABLE II
COMPARISON OF FEM AND PEMI RESULTS
Fig. 21. Modeled temperature contour plot ( C) (    s).
there exists a considerably similar fringe pattern or deformation
contour. The net deformations at Point A of Fig. 20 relative to
the central symmetry plane are further extracted and shown in
Table II. There is about 14.6% discrepancy in the -field and
about 11.4% in the -field. The mismatch is not trivial but still
acceptable. The nontrivial mismatch between the numerical and
experimental data may be due to the neglect of the NCA fillet
around the chip peripheral edges in the modeling.
E. Process-Induced Thermal–Mechanical Behaviors
The thermal-compression NCA bonding process imposes
thermal and mechanical loadings on the novel package. In the
investigation, the imposed bonding force is 10 Kgw, the applied
thermal load is 200 C, and the associated process time is 15 s.
1) Curing-Induced Temperature Field: The temperature dis-
tribution of the package during the NCA curing process is com-
puted using transient thermal FE analysis. The modeled tem-
perature field is shown in Fig. 21(a) and (b). It shows that there
is a significant temperature gradient across the package. The
temperature gradient is believed to be the main cause of the
warpage of the package during the NCA bonding process, and
thus should not be neglected in the process-dependent modeling.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 559
Fig. 25. Warpage of the substrate after the bonding process.
point of the substrate. At the last simulation step, the extensive
warpage at the third step is significantly lessened as the pack-
aging is cooled down to the room temperature. Evidently, the
substrate remains a concave bending. Despite the fact that the
temperature on the chip is much higher than that of the substrate
as a result of the curing-induced thermal gradient loading, the
substrate would still undergo much more considerable thermal
shrinkage because of its larger CTE. It is thus supposed that the
warpage of the substrate at the step would become even more
excessive than that of the third step. Obviously, this seems to
contradict to the resulting warpage in the figure. This can be ex-
plained according to Fig. 25, a closeup view of the deformations
of the substrate under the chip. It is evident that the warpage of
the substrate under the chip at the step is more excessive than
that of the previous step (i.e., the third step). This confirms one’s
previous supposition. Furthermore, it should be noted that the
temperature on the top surface of the substrate is greater than
that of the bottom at the third step, as can be observed in Fig. 22.
There is a larger thermal shrinkage at the top side of the substrate
than the bottom, leading to an upward bending of the substrate
beyond the chip range. Accordingly, this is why the maximum
warpage of the substrate at the last simulation step can recover
significantly from that of the third step even though the warpage
of the substrate under the chip tends to become more excessive.
The maximum residual warpage of the substrate after the NCA
bonding process is about 0.028 mm and occurs in the outmost
point of the substrate. It is obviously much less significant than
that of the conventional solder-type FC technology.
4) Validation of Modeled Process-Induced Warpage: As
mentioned earlier, the surface of the object to be measured
by the TGMI technique must be lustrous. In the investigation,
the top surface of the chip is coated with a thin Au layer, and
thus only the warpage of the chip is presented. The captured
fringe pattern on the top surface of the chip is shown in Fig. 26.
It represents the residual warpage of the chip after the NCA
bonding process. The derived warpage from the center of the
chip to the edge along the symmetry plane by the TGMI tech-
nique and the FE modeling is depicted in Fig. 27. Both results
show that the farther the distance from the center of the chip,
the larger the deformations. In addition, the deformed chip
Fig. 26. Captured fringe pattern on the chip surface by using TGMI.
Fig. 27. Process-induced warpages of the chip by FE modeling and TGMI.
presents a concave shape (bend downward), which conforms to
the deformed configuration of the substrate beneath the chip, as
shown in Fig. 25. Most importantly, the measured and modeled
data agree closely with one another. In specific, the maximum
deformation obtained from the TGMI measurement is about
4.58 m and that from the simulation is 4.92 m. The differ-
ence is approximately 7%. The minor deviation again confirms
the effectiveness of the proposed FE modeling approaches.
5) Process-Induced Contact Stress: The contact stress ba-
sically determines the electrical performance of the package.
As reported in the literature (see, e.g., [3] and [5]), the contact
electrical resistance is strongly dependent on the contact stress,
where the larger the contact stress, the less the electrical con-
tact resistance. For a good I/O connection, the contact should
be intact and the electrical conduction shall remain consistent
and reliable in a varying harsh environment.
The process-induced contact stresses at the
Cu-bumps/ ACF interface at these four simulation
steps are shown in Fig. 28, associated with the bump identifi-
cation (ID) number illustrated in the figure. The data shown in
the figure are characterized in a volume-weighted averaging
manner [15]. It is found that the result trend is quite consistent
with that of the contact forces shown in Fig. 23, and hence the
corresponding explanations made on the contact forces can be
also applicable herein. At the first step, the contact stresses are
established as a result of the applied external bonding force and
thermal loading. Note that in the process modeling, through
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 561
Fig. 30. Contact/peeling stress versus temperature.
Fig. 31. The maximum warpage versus temperature.
the chip is smaller than that of the substrate and then leads to a
gradual, upward bending as the temperature is elevated.
8) Validation of Warpage of Chip at Temperature Elevation:
By the FE modeling, the resulting maximum warpage of the
chip along the horizontal symmetry plane as the temperature is
heated from room temperature up to 100 C is shown in Fig. 32.
It can be observed in the figure that the maximum warpage is
changed significantly from 4.92 m (downward) to 1.22 m
(upward). There are about 6.14 m of net deformation in the
chip under a C temperature swing.
By the TGMI measurement, about six fringe orders from the
center of the chip to the edge along the horizontal symmetry
plane are captured at C, implying a total of about
1.89 m of warpage, as shown in Fig. 32. It is found that by the
temperature swing, the amount of net deformation is 6.47 m.
Clearly, both these two approaches give a very close result trend
in the effect of elevated temperature on the warpage of the chip.
However, the gap between these two approaches at C
is more pronounced than that at the room temperature. This is
mainly because the warpage (i.e., 1.89 m by measurement and
Fig. 32. Warpage of the chip versus temperature.
Fig. 33. Effect of substrate materials on the contact and peeling stresses.
1.22 m by simulation) at C is much smaller than
that at the room temperature (i.e., 4.58 m and 4.92 m, re-
spectively). For a fixed amount of modeled or measured error,
the larger the warpage, the less the difference in percentage be-
tween these two approaches. Furthermore, it is evident that the
difference in the net deformations due to the temperature swing
is only about 5% between these two approaches.
9) Effect of Substrate Materials: The effect of substrate ma-
terials on the process-induced thermal–mechanical behaviors is
explored. In addition to the BT material, two other widely used
substrate materials including glass and FR4 are investigated. It
should be noted that their geometry dimension and Cu content
are assumed exactly identical in the investigation.
The volume-weighted average contact and peeling stresses
associated with these three types of substrate materials are
shown in Fig. 33. Of these three types, the glass substrate
exhibits the largest contact stress, followed by the FR4 and
BT. It turns out that a stiffer substrate material, especially the
out-of-plane one, would yield a larger contact stress. The figure
also reveals that a larger contact stress would go along with a
larger peeling stress. Consequently, for a better contact charac-
teristic, a stiffer substrate, which can be attained by increasing
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
CHENG et al.: THERMAL–MECHANICAL BEHAVIORS OF NOVEL NANOWIRE-BASED FILM TECHNOLOGY 563
[4] K. Hatada, H. Fujimoto, T. Kawakita, and T. Ochi, “A new LSI
bonding technology: Micro bump bonding assembly technology,” in
Proc. IEEE-CHMT, 1988, pp. 45–49.
[5] H. C. Cheng, C. L. Ho, K. N. Chiang, and S. M. Chang, “Process-
dependent contact characteristics of NCA assemblies,” IEEE Trans.
Compon. Packag. Technol., vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 398–410, Jun. 2004.
[6] K. Ishibashi and J. Kimura, “A new anisotropic conductive film with
arraryed conductive particles,” AMP J. Tech., vol. 5, pp. 24–30, 1996.
[7] J. S. Souriau, J. Brun, R. Franiatte, and A. Gasse, “Development on
wafer-level anisotropic conductive film for flip-chip interconnection,”
in Proc. 54th Electronic Compon. Technol. Conf., 2004, pp. 155–158.
[8] R. J. Lin, Y. Y. Hsu, R. C. Fan, Y. C. Chen, S. Y. Cheng, C. T. Huang,
and R. H. Uang, “Design of nanowire anisotropic conductive film for
ultra-fine pitch flip chip interconnection,” in Proc. EPTC, 2004, pp.
120–125.
[9] A. J. Yin, J. Li, W. Jian, A. J. Bennett, and J. M. Xu, “Fabrication of
highly ordered metallic nanowire arrays by electrodeposition,” Appl.
Phys. Lett., vol. 79, no. 7, pp. 1039–1041, 2001.
[10] K. E. Khor and S. Das Sarma, “Proposed universal interatomic poten-
tial for elemental tetrahedrally bonded semiconductors,” Phys. Rev. B,
vol. 38, pp. 3318–3322, 1988.
[11] J. R. Chelikowsky, “Formation of  clusters via Langevin molecular
dynamics,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 45, pp. 12062–12070, 1992.
[12] M. I. Heggie, “Semiclassical interatomic potential for carbon and its
application to the self-interstitial in graphite,” J. Phys.: Condensed
Matter, vol. 3, pp. 3065–3079, 1991.
[13] L. A. Girifalco and V. G. Weizer, “Application of the Morse potential
function to cubic metals,” Phys. Rev., vol. 114, pp. 687–690, 1959.
[14] P. B. Boresi and K. P. Chong, Elasticity in Engineering Mechanics.
New York: Wiley, 2000.
[15] H. C. Cheng, K. N. Chiang, C. K. Chen, and J. C. Lin, “A study of
factors affecting solder joint fatigue life of thermally enhanced ball grid
array assemblies,” J. Chinese Inst. Engineers, vol. 24, no. 4, 2001.
[16] G. N. Ellison, Thermal Computations for Electronic Equip-
ment. Malabar, FL: R. E. Krieger, 1989.
[17] G. Ridsdale, B. Joiner, J. Bigler, and V. M. Torres, “Thermal simulation
to analyze design features of plastic quad flat packages,” J. Microcir-
cuits Electron. Packag., vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 103–109, 1996.
[18] W. H. Chen, H. C. Cheng, and H. A. Shen, “An effective methodology
for thermal characterization of electronic packaging,” IEEE Trans.
Compon. Packag. Technol., vol. 26, pp. 222–232, 2003.
[19] B. Han, Y. Guo, C. K. Lim, and D. Caletka, “Verification of numerical
models used in microelectronics packaging design by interferometric
displacement measurement methods,” J. Electron. Packag., vol. 118,
pp. 157–163, 1996.
[20] X. Li, H. Gao, C. J. Murphy, and K. K. Caswell, “Nanoindentation of
silver nanowires,” Nano Lett., vol. 3, pp. 1495–1498, 2003.
[21] S. Cuenot, C. Fretigny, S. Demoustier-Champagne, and B. Nysten,
“Surface tension effect on the mechanical properties of nanomaterials
measured by atomic force microscopy,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 69, p.
165410, 2004.
[22] Y. Chen, B. L. Dorgan Jr., D. N. Mcllroy, and D. E. Aston, “On the im-
portance of boundary conditions on nanomechanical bending behavior
and elastic modulus determination of silver nanowires,” J. Appl. Phys.,
vol. 100, p. 104301, 2006.
[23] G. Y. Jing, H. L. Duan, X. M. Sun, Z. S. Zhang, J. Xu, Y. D. Li, J.
X. Wang, and D. P. Yu, “Surface effects on elastic properties of silver
nanowires: Contact atomic-force microscopy,” Phys. Rev. B, vol. 73, p.
235409, 2006.
[24] M. F. Ashby and D. R. H. Jones, Engineering Materials. Oxford,
U.K.: Pergamon, 1980, vol. 1.
Authors’ photographs and biographies not available at the time of publication.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Feng Chia University. Downloaded on June 15, 2009 at 13:01 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
conform to the development of nanotechnology, the 
authors [7] proposed a novel FC technology (Fig. 1) 
that integrates an advanced nanocomposite film [8] 
together with an NCP technology to form 
ultra-fine-pitched and reliable interconnects of IC 
bumps on substrates. The fabrication process of the 
novel FC technology is similar to the conventional 
NCF/NCP technology. The technology implies several 
apparent advantages such as, the prevention from 
lateral electrical conduction when I/O pitch becomes 
small, highly compliant joints due to the high 
aspect-ratio of nanowires, no need to conduct underfill 
process during assembly, and excellent electrical 
conduction properties due to the 1-D quantum 
confinement of the nanowires. From this aspect, it 
shows a great potential for use in next-generation, 
ultra-fine-pitch applications. However, before the 
technology could be viably applied in practice in IC 
packaging industry, there are still many technical 
challenges to be faced and resolved. For example, 
NCP delamination (Fig. 2(a)), film fracture (Fig. 2(b)), 
nanowire buckling (Fig. 2(c)), and the loss of electrical 
contact at the NCP joints (Fig. 2(d)) are often observed 
in the technology. In general, these failure mechanisms 
have a strong coupling with the associated residual 
characteristics after the fabrication process, including 
the residual contact stresses on the bumps and 
electrodes, the level of residual peeling stresses on the 
NCP adhesive, and the residual warpage of the 
substrate. Accordingly, a new technology as such 
should be more focused on the residual behaviors at 
the bonding line after the bonding process. Extensive 
characterization and management of the residual 
characteristics are indispensable to the realization of 
the technology.  
The main goal of the study aims at optimization 
of the novel FC technology incorporated with an 
Ag-nanowire/polymer nanocomposite film. The 
objective is to simultaneously seek the optimum 
residual thermal-mechanical behaviors, including the 
minimization of the maximal warpage of the substrate 
and the maximal peeling stress of the NCP and the 
maximization of the minimal contact stress on the 
bumps and electrodes. The considered design variables 
include geometry parameters, material constants and 
process factors. Since design optimization requires 
numerous thermal-mechanical simulations, and thus it 
is essential to have a computationally efficient method. 
Thus in the study, an effective design optimization 
scheme based on parametric FE analysis, an RSM and 
an SQP updating scheme is proposed. The design 
procedure of the proposed scheme is illustrated. To 
demonstrate the validity and efficiency of the present 
design optimization scheme, several design problems 
associated with the FC technology are performed. 
Besides, the process-induced thermal-mechanical 
behaviors of the FC technology are characterized by 
using a process-dependent simulation methodology 
that integrates a “death-birth” meshing scheme and 
transient thermal and nonlinear contact FE analyses. 
To substantiate the effectiveness of the process 
simulation, the modeled residual deformations are 
extensively compared against those of the 
measurements using Twyman-Green moiré 
interferometer (TGMI).  
II. THE NOVEL FLIP CHIP TECHNOLOGY 
The structure of the novel FC technology, shown 
in Fig. 1, is composed of four major components: an 
IC chip with Cu micro-bumps, a circuit BT 
(Bismaleimide Triazine) substrate with Cu electrodes, 
a nanocomposite film with millions of highly-oriented 
Ag nanowire arrays and NCP. The novel 
nanocomposite film is basically an Ag 
nanowire-reinforced polymer membrane. Since the 
function of these highly-oriented hundreds of millions 
of nanowires is the same as the particles in a 
conventional ACF, the nanocomposite film can be 
considered as an ACF film, and the present FC 
technology can be also regarded as an ACF technology. 
Basically, the nanocomposite film presents a great 
structural compliance because of the highly flexible 
nanowires and polymer matrix, and thus is quite 
suitable and potential for use as interconnects. The 
nanocomposite film is fabricated through the template 
assisted nanowire growth technique [9] with an AAO 
membrane, followed by a polymer-diffusion process 
under a magnetic field [10] so that these nanowires can 
stay in an upright orientation. The perforated AAO 
membrane applied yields a volume fraction of 50% of 
the total membrane’s surface area, where the 
nano-pores are about 200 nanometers (nm) in diameter, 
60 mμ  in length and 20 nm in spacing. The details of 
the fabrication process of the novel nanocomposite 
film can be referred to [11]. The dimension of the 
nanocomposite film is 30 mμ  in thickness and 1 
centimeter (cm) in diameter. Fig. 1(c) and (d) shows an 
SEM picture of a nanocomposite film, after laser 
ablation and mounting on a 600 mμ  thick substrate, 
where no bubbles or cracks are detected, 
demonstrating that the polymer is well filled into the 
cavity among nanowires.  
Furthermore, the NCP provides mechanical 
bonding of the LSI chip with Cu micro-bumps, the 
nanocomposite film and the circuit substrate with 
electrodes by way of its adhesion strength and 
shrinkage force during hardening and cooling under 
thermal-compression process, while those embedded, 
highly-oriented Ag nanowire arrays in the 
nanocomposite film serve an electrical channel and 
connection of the bumps and electrodes. By the 
approach, a reliable mechanical and electrical contact 
is established at the bump-film-electrode interface in 
the bonding line due to the substantial contraction of 
the NCP during hardening and temperature cooling in 
thermal-compression process and also the elastic 
deformations of these Ag nanowires. Note that an 
excessive bonding pressure or contact stress would 
 ***
iii
ggg ≤≤  (6) 
 ***
iii
ppp ≤≤  (7) 
 
where  is the maximal process-induced warpage of 
the substrate,  the maximal peeling stress of the 
NCP,  the minimal contact stress on the bumps 
and electrodes, ,  and  the scale factor 
associated with the warpage, peeling stress and contact 
stress, ,  and  the constraint limits on the 
warpage of the chip, the contact stress on the Cu 
bumps and the peeling stress on the NCP, respectively, 
,  and  the dimensionless design variables 
of the geometry parameters, material constants and 
process factors, respectively, 
W
pS
cS
0W
pS0
cS0
Wˆ pSˆ cSˆ
*
im
*
ig
*
ip
*
im (
*
im ), *ig (
*
ig ) and 
*
i
p ( *ip ) the lower (upper) limit associated with the 
design variables ,  and , and *im *ig *ip )3,2,1( =iiα  
are the weighting coefficients. 
IV. THE OPTIMIZATION SCHEME 
In this study, an effective design optimization 
scheme based on parametric FE analysis, the RSM 
method that employs regression analysis and a SQP 
scheme is proposed for seeking the optimal solution of 
the optimization problem. The design procedure is 
illustrated in Fig. 3 and also addressed in the following. 
First of all, design metrics or the objectives are first 
defined together with constraints. Next, through 
parametric FE study, the effects of these design 
parameters on the design metrics are extensively 
assessed. The degree of effect of these parameters on 
each of the design metric is ranked, and those 
exhibiting a stronger effect are retained. By way of the 
investigation, the original large number of design 
parameters can be considerably reduced. Furthermore, 
an RSM method incorporating an experimental design 
plan based on the identified key design parameters is 
performed for building the approximate mathematical 
model or RS function of each of the objectives. The 
linear combination of the mathematical models of the 
objectives defines the explicit composite objective 
function of the multi-criteria optimization problem, as 
shown in Eq. (1). To facilitate the solution of the 
optimization problem, the design variables and also 
the objective/constraint functions are then converted 
into a non-dimensional form. By the objective 
formulation together with the specific constraints, 
including side constraints, a constrained optimization 
problem is formed. The solution of the constrained 
optimization problem with a specific set of the 
weighting coefficients  and the constraint 
limits ( , ,and ) is sought through an SQP 
updating scheme. Note that SQP, a commonly-applied 
mathematical programming technique with a superior 
convergence rate, seeks the solution of the 
optimization problem by sequentially dealing with the 
quadratic programming subproblem.  
)3,2,1( =iiα
Wˆ pSˆ cSˆ
The RSM method (see, e.g., [12]) is briefly 
introduced in the following. Typically, it employs 
statistical regression analysis, based on the response 
values in an experimental design plan, to establish a 
global response surface (RS) or macro model for 
approximation of some system responses. The macro 
model is, in general, a simple, explicit mathematical 
expression as function of the design parameters, which 
are the input variables to the simulations. The response 
values can be obtained using either measurements or 
simulations. Once the model is obtained, it can be used 
to replace simulations. The constructed macro models 
are utilized in the study to replace the 
objective/constraints of the optimization problem, the 
solution of which can be simply sought using a 
standard updating scheme. The key advantage in the 
use of the macro model would be the potentially great 
reduction of the computational cost in estimating the 
system response or desired objective, thus making the 
design optimization that requires repeated calculations 
of the system responses or desired objective/constraint 
functions much more efficient and simpler. Under 
some circumstances, the computational cost needed for 
deriving the expression is orders of magnitude much 
less than that needed for simulations. 
In the present investigation, the macro model 
associated with the residual thermal-mechanical 
behaviors after the NCP bonding process are created as 
function of the design parameters, including material 
constants, geometry data and process parameters. The 
linear combination of these macro models represents 
the objective function of the multi-criteria 
optimization problem. The procedure to explore the 
macro models of the residual behaviors in terms of the 
design parameters is briefed in the following, in which 
all these residual behaviors are approximated using a 
quadratic polynomial regression model,  
rror
N
i
N
j
jiij
N
j
jj Exxxf +++= ∑∑∑
= == 1 11
0 βββ ,   (8) 
 
where  is the any residual behavior or performance 
function, N the total number of design variables x for 
design, and 
f
0β jβ  (j=1,N) the coefficients of the 
regression model, which are to be determined using 
regression analysis, and  the random error.  rrorE
Constructing the RS model requires an iterative 
process. In this study, FE simulation is responsible for 
investigating the system responses or desired 
objectives at those sampling points in a specified 
experimental design plan. These response values are 
used for fitting the regression model to determine all 
the coefficients. Essentially, the solution accuracy of 
the design optimization depends strongly on the level 
of exactness of the approximate macro models, which 
are typically governed by the number of sampling 
points, the assumed regression model, or the type of 
correlation model hc suggested by Ellison [14] and the 
radiative heat transfer coefficient correlation model hr 
(see, e.g., [15]) are applied.  
The thermal-mechanical FE modeling takes into 
consideration the contact physics between the bumps 
(electrodes) and the nanocomposite and between the 
circuit substrate and the handling station of the main 
bonder. Similar to the thermal FE modeling, only a 
quadrant of the package and the associated bonding 
system is considered with a symmetry BC defined on 
the symmetry planes. All the materials of the package 
are considered linearly elastic, and are also illustrated 
in Table 1. Moreover, the NCP is assumed 
temperature-dependent material. The associated 
temperature-dependent coefficient of thermal 
expansion (CTE) and Young’s modulus are presented 
in Table 2-3.  
One example of the 3-D thermal-mechanical FE 
model and its close-up views are shown in Fig. 4. 
Throughout this investigation, a general purpose FE 
code, ANSYS®, is used to conduct FE modeling of the 
process-induced thermal-mechanical behaviors of the 
package.  
VI. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
In the thermal-compression NCP bonding 
process, the imposed bonding force is 10 kgw, the 
applied thermal load is 200 ºC, and the associated 
process time is 15 seconds. 
6.1 The Curing-induced Temperature Field  
The computed temperature distribution of the 
package during the NCP curing process is shown in 
Fig. 5(a). It is clear that there is a significant 
temperature gradient across the package. The great 
temperature gradient could potentially have a great 
impact on the warpage of the package during the NCP 
bonding process, and thus should not be neglected in 
the process-dependent modeling. The temperature 
histories are plotted associated with the spatial 
locations Point A, B, C, D and E shown in the same 
figure. It reveals that a steady state is attained after 
about 3-second heating regardless of the locations. In 
addition, the region in the vicinity of the chip (heat 
source) would be faster to attain a steady temperature. 
Furthermore, it seems that the thermal conductance 
along the in-plane direction of the substrate is superior 
to that of the out-of-plane as a result of the Cu planes. 
The transient temperature field at the steady state 
would be applied to the subsequent, 
thermal-mechanical FE modeling as an essential 
thermal loading boundary condition. 
6.2 Modeled Process-induced Thermal-Mechanical 
Behaviors and Validation 
The maximum modeled warpage of the chip 
along the center line is shown in Fig. 5(b), associated 
with the simulation steps. Owing to the external 
compressive loading, the warpage of the chip at the 
first and second simulation steps tends to be trivial. At 
the third simulation step, where the external loading is 
released, a dramatic increase in the maximum warpage 
can be detected due to the rebound of the package 
from the previous compressive restraint. As the 
packaging is cooled down to the room temperature at 
the last simulation step, the significant warpage at the 
third simulation step is dramatically lessened. It turns 
out that the maximum residual chip’s warpage after the 
NCP bonding process is about 0.005 mm, taking place 
at the outmost point along the center line of the chip.  
In the investigation, the top surface of the chip is 
coated with a thin Au layer for facilitating warpage 
measurement using TGMI. The captured fringe 
patterns on the top surface of the chip at T=25  
and 100  are shown in Fig. 6(a) and (c), 
respectively. Note that the warpage at T=25  
represents the residual warpage of the chip after the 
NCP bonding process. The corresponding modeled and 
measured warpages of the chip along the center line or 
the symmetry plane are also shown in Fig. 6(b) and (d). 
Specifically, the predicted maximum warpage by the 
simulation and measurement is 4.92 
Co
Co
Co
mμ  and 4.74 
mμ  at T=25 , respectively, and 1.22 Co mμ  and 1.58 
 at T=100 , all occurring at the edge point of 
the chip along the center line. The difference is 
approximately 3.8% and 22%, respectively. Note that 
the gap at T=100  is only one fringe (i.e., 0.316 
um Co
Co
mμ ). It is not difficult to find that the gap at T=100 
 is much more substantial than that at T=25 . 
The larger gap at T=100  is mainly due to the 
limited resolution of the TGMI, which is 0.316/fringe, 
and also the smaller deformation, as compared with 
that at T=25 . This implies that only one fringe 
difference , which is the present case, would result in a 
huge discrepancy in the comparison. The comparison 
results show the effectiveness of the proposed 
process-dependent FE simulation methodology. 
Co Co
Co
Co
The electrical performance of the package is 
strongly dependent on the contact performance of the 
NCP joints, where the larger the contact stress, the less 
the electrical contact resistance. In other words, the 
magnitude of the residual contact stresses is one of the 
key factors of the success of the novel electronic 
packaging technology. Fig. 5(c) shows the 
process-induced contact stresses at the 
bumps/nanocomposite interface associated with the 
four simulation steps versus the bump identification 
number illustrated in the same figure. The illustrated 
data are presented in a volume-weighted averaging 
manner [16]. At the first simulation step, the contact 
stresses are developed because of the applied external 
loading and thermal loading. According to Fig. 5(a), 
the process-induced temperature of the Cu bumps 
nearby the chip edge is slightly lesser than that close to 
following. The independent variables include the key 
control factors C (thickness of the Cu bumps), E (CTE 
of the NCP), F (bonding temperature) and G (bonding 
force). The associated range of variation of these three 
control factors for building the macro model is also 
 of the original values, where they are 0.010 mm, 
40 ppm/ , 2.5 MPa and 190 . 
%30±
Co Co
−×+×+×+×+= '''' 162487.0032879.0315924.0121006.096958.0 GFECS c
+×+×−×+× 2222 '''' 00003.0001726.0015668.0001188.0 GFEC
+××+××+×× '''''' 002067.0006698.0086126.0 GCFCEC
'''''' 001771.0016157.0015949.0 GFGEFE ××+××+××    (10) 
 
where  is the contact stress on the Cu bumps, and 
, ,  and  are the dimensionless form of 
the control factors C, E, F, and G, respectively. 
Accordingly, the range of variance of the contact stress 
is . 
cS
C′ E′ F′ G′
1.7521670.47171 ≤≤ cS
Likewise, the constructed macro model for the 
peeling stress on the NCP is illustrated as follows. The 
independent variables considered are exactly the same 
as those applied for the contact stress of the Cu bumps. 
−×+×+×+×+= '''' 022737.005334.0417677.0053327.0946541.0 GFECS p
+×+×−×+× 2222 '''' 000233.0000181.000162.0005635.0 GFEC
+××−××+×× '''''' 001175.0003588.0019169.0 GCFCEC
'''''' 000077.0001645.0025516.0 GFGEFE ××+××+××   (11) 
 
where  is the peeling stress on the NCP. Based on 
the macro model, the range of variance of the peeling 
stress is . 
pS
1.539290.443561 ≤≤ pS
Besides, from the 2R  statistical 
hypothesis-testing, the calculated 2R  indices 
associated with the above W,  and 
pS
 macro 
models are all 0.99, implying that the fit of the least 
square surface to the data points is good, and these 
independent variables are significantly correlative to 
the estimated residual behaviors. In addition, the 
standard deviation between the modeled and estimated 
data at these design sampling points are less than 
0.0253, 0.00796 and 0.0019 associated with these 
three residual thermal-mechanical behaviors, 
demonstrating the accuracy of the approximate 
mathematical model. 
cS
6.5 Optimal Design 
Based on the composite objective formulation 
and the approximate macro models of these design 
metrics, as shown in Eq. (9-11), the objective of the 
multi-criteria optimization problem can be expressed 
in the following, 
Min  =Fˆ
( +×+×+×−×− ''''
0
1 071886.0229891.0151135.0271791.0928491.0 FDBA
W
α
+×+×+×+× 2222 '''' 002907.0003772.00092265.0037378.0 FDBA
−××−××−×× '''''' 020393.0036444.0098147.0 FADABA )'''''' 016615.0010125.0000129.0 FDFBDB ××+××−××  
( −×+×+×+×+− ''''
0
2 162487.0032879.0315924.0121006.096958.0 GFEC
S c
α
+×+×−×+× 2222 '''' 00003.0001726.0015668.0001188.0 GFEC  
+××+××+×× '''''' 002067.0006698.0086126.0 GCFCEC  )'''''' 001771.0016157.0015949.0 GFGEFE ××+××+××  
( −×+×+×+×++ ''''
0
3 022737.005334.0417677.0053327.0946541.0 GFEC
S p
α
+×+×−×+× 2222 '''' 000233.0000181.000162.0005635.0 GFEC  
+××−××+×× '''''' 001175.0003588.0019169.0 GCFCEC  
 )'''''' 000077.0001645.0025516.0 GFGEFE ××+××+××  (12) 
 
where ,  and  are associated with the 
maximum value of the residual warpage of the chip, 
contact stress on the Cu bumps and peeling stress on 
the NCA, which are ,  and 1.53929 , 
respectively. The side constraints on these design 
factors for these design practices are identical, namely 
0W
cS0
pS0
1.9468 1.752167
3.1A7.0 ≤′≤ , 3.1B7.0 ≤′≤ , 3.1C7.0 ≤′≤ , 
3.1D7.0 ≤′≤ , 3.1E7.0 ≤′≤ , , and 06.1F94.0 ≤′≤
3.1G7.0 ≤′≤ . 
 In the study, two design practices are performed 
to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present design 
optimization methodology. The first design practice 
consists of three design subcases, each of which is 
associated with a different weighting set )3,2,1( =iiα  
on the design metrics, i.e., the warpage of the chip, 
contact stress on the Cu bumps and peeling stress on 
the NCP. In specific, for the first design subcase, an 
equal weighting (i.e., α1=1, α2=1, α3=1) is set on these 
three design metrics; for the second design subcase, a 
larger weighting is imposed on the residual warpage 
and peeling stress (i.e., α1=10, α2=1, α3=10); and for 
the last design subcase, a much more weighting is 
assumed on the residual contact stress (i.e., α1=10, 
α2=1, α3=10). The optimal values of the control 
factors associated with these three design subcases are 
illustrated in Table 4. Based on the optimal control 
factors, the associated optimal values of these three 
design metrics obtained using FE analysis are shown 
in Table 5, together with those of the original design. 
First compare the original design with the optimal 
design of the equal weighting case (i.e., the first design 
subscase). It is clearly found that both the residual 
warpage and peeling stress are significantly reduced in 
the optimal design while at the same time, still 
favorably maintaining the same performance of the 
residual contact stress. The results indicate that the 
equal-weighting formulation can be very ideal for 
achieving a very good compromise design among 
these three objectives. By further evaluating the 
optimal results of the first design subscase and the 
second one, it is found that the increase of the 
weighting in the residual warpage and peeling stress 
would lead to a lesser corresponding value but, 
unfortunately, would also result in a great extent of 
reduction in the residual contact stress, which is 
certainly not preferred. Furthermore, the comparisons 
of the optimal designs between the second design 
subcase and the third one clearly reveal that a larger 
weighting in the residual contact stress would achieve 
a better contact performance but, on the other hand, 
6) By using an RSM incorporating an FCCD 
experimental design plan, the macro models 
associated with these three design metrics are 
successfully and effectively constructed based on 
the identified key design parameters in the 
parametric analysis. The effectiveness and 
accuracy of the constructed macro models is 
extensively confirmed through 2R  statistical 
hypothesis-testing and the standard deviation 
between the modeled and estimated data at these 
design sampling points. 
7) By virtue of these two design practices, the 
proposed design optimization methodology turns 
out to be very effective and efficient to deal with 
the present optimization problem with or without 
constraints on the process-induced 
thermal-mechanical behaviors.  
8) Take the equal-weighting design case for example. 
The optimal values of the design parameters are 
the chip’s thickness of 0.81 mm, the substrate’s 
thickness of 0.73 mm, the substrate’s CTE of 12.6 
ppm/℃, the bonding temperature of 180 ℃, the 
bump height of 0.013 mm, the NCP’s CTE of 28 
ppm/℃ and the external bonding pressure 3.3 
MPa. By the optimal design parameters, the 
associated warpage of the chip and peeling stress 
on the NCP of the optimal design are significantly 
improved from 0.0055 mm to 0.0025 mm, and 
21.13 MPa to 11.72 MPa , respectively, while, 
surprisingly, the contact stress on the Cu bumps 
remains nearly the same as that of the original 
design.  
9) It is also observed that the weighting coefficients, 
indeed, can play a very significant role in the 
computed optimal results. Through an appropriate 
selection of these weighting coefficients together 
with the definition of the maximum allowable 
warpage of the chip, the minimum allowable 
contact stress on the Cu bumps and the maximum 
allowable peeling stress on the NCP, a more 
practical optimal result can be achieved.  
10) Results also show that for a multi-criteria 
optimization problem, a compromise design 
among these three metrics is generally achieved in 
order to attain an EP optimal solution.  
REFERENCES 
1. C.T. Peng, C.M. Liu, J.C. Lin, H.C. Cheng, and K.N. 
Chiang, 2004, “Reliability Analysis and Design for 
the Fine-pitch Flip Chip BGA Packaging,” IEEE 
Transactions on Components and Packaging 
Technologies, Vol. 27, No. 4, pp. 684-693, December.  
2. H. C. Cheng, C. L. Ho, W. C. Chen, and S. S. Yang, 
2006, “A study of process-induced deformations of 
anisotropic conductive film (ACF) assembly,” IEEE 
Trans. Compon. Packag. Technol., vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 
577–588, Jun. 
3. K. Ishibashi and J. Kimura, 1996, “A new anisotropic 
conductive film with arraryed conductive particles,” 
AMP J. Tech., vol. 5, pp. 24–30. 
4. M. Yamaguchi, F. Asai, F. Eriguchi and Y. Hotta, 
1999, “Development of Novel Anisotropic 
Conductive Film (ACE),” 1999 IEMT/IMC 
Symposium, April 21-23, Sonic City, Omiya, Japan. 
5. K. Hatada, H. Fujimoto, T. Kawakita, and T. Ochi, “A 
new LSI bonding technology: Micro bump bonding 
assembly technology,” in Proc. IEEE-CHMT, pp. 
45–49. 
6. H. C. Cheng, C. L. Ho, K. N. Chiang, and S. M. 
Chang, 2004, “Process-dependent contact 
characteristics of NCA assemblies,” IEEE Trans. 
Compon. Packag. Technol., vol. 27, no. 3, pp. 
398–410, Jun. 
7. H.C. Cheng, W.H. Chen, C.S. Lin, Y.Y. Hsu, and R.H. 
Uang, 2009,”On the Thermal-mechanical Behaviors 
of a Novel Nanowire-based Anisotropic Conductive 
Film Technology,” IEEE Transactions on Advanced 
Packaging, Vol. 32, No. 2, 546-563. May . 
8. A. J. Yin, J. Li, W. Jian, A. J. Bennett, J. M. Xu, 2001, 
“Fabrication of Highly Ordered Metallic Nanowire 
Arrays by Electrodeposition,” Appl. Phys. Lett. Vol. 
79, No. 7, pp 1039-1041. 
9. A. M. Morales and C. M. Lieber, 1998, “A Laser 
Ablation Method for the Synthesis of Crystalline 
Semiconductor Nanowires, ” Science, Vol. 279, 
January. 
10. R. J. Lin, Y. Y. Hsu, Y. C. Chen, S. Y. Cheng, C. T. 
Huang, R. H. Uang, 2005,”Fabrication of Nanowire 
Anisotropic Conductive Film for Ultra-fine Pitch Flip 
Chip Interconnection,” Electronics Packaging 
Technology Conference: 66-67. 
11. W.H. Chen, H.C. Cheng, Y.-C. Hsu, R.-H. Uang, J.S. 
Hsu, 2008, ”Mechanical Material Characterization of 
Co Nanowires and Their Nanocomposite”, Composite 
Science and Technology, 68, 3388–3395. 
12. A.J.G. Schoofs, M.H. van Houten, L.F.P. Etman and 
D.H. van Campen, 1997, “Global and mid-range 
function approximation for engineering optimization,” 
Numerical Methods of Operations Research, vol. 46, 
pp. 335-359. 
13. G. E. P. Box and K. B. Wilson, “On the experimental 
attainment of optimum conditions,” Journal of the 
Royal Statistical Society, Series B, XIII, pp. 1-45, 
1951. 
14. G. N. Ellison, Thermal Computations for Electronic 
Equipment, R. E. Krieger Publishing Company, 
Malabar, FL, 1989. 
15. G. Ridsdale, B. Joiner, J. Bigler and V. M. Torres, 
1996. “Thermal Performance Limits of the QFP 
Family,” IEEE Transactions on Components, 
Packaging, and Manufacturing Technology-Part A, 
Vol. 17, No. 4, pp. 427-443. 
16. H.C. Cheng, K.N. Chiang, C. K. Chen, and J.C. Lin, 
2001, “A Study of Factors Affecting Solder Joint 
Fatigue Life of Thermally Enhanced Ball Grid Array 
Assemblies”, Journal of the Chinese Institute of 
Engineers, Vol. 24, No. 4, July. 
010
20
30
40
50
1 2 3 4 5
Bump Number
C
on
ta
ct
 S
tre
ss
 (M
Pa
)
6
step-1
step-2
step-3
step-4
 
(d) Peeling stresses on the NCP 
Fig. 5 Process-induced thermal-mechanical behaviors 
during the NCP bonding process 
 
 
 
(a) Fringe pattern at T=25℃ 
 
-0.006
-0.005
-0.004
-0.003
-0.002
-0.001
0
0.001
0.002
-4.0 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0
Position (mm)
W
ar
pa
ge
 (m
m
)
Simulation
Experiment
  
(b) Warpage at T=25℃ 
 
 
(c) Fringe pattern at T=100℃ 
0
0.001
0.002
0.003
0.004
-4.0 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0
Position (mm)
W
ar
pa
ge
 (m
m
) Simulation
Experiment
 
(d) Warpage at T=100℃ 
Fig. 6 The measured and modeled warpages of the 
chip along the center line 
 
-0.008
-0.006
-0.004
-0.002
0
-30 0 30
The variation of parameters (%)
W
ar
pa
ge
 o
f t
he
 c
hi
p(
m
m
)
chip thickness
Cu bump thickness
substrate thickness
nanocomposite thickness
bonding temperature
bonding force
 
(a) Residual warpage of the chip 
 
13
15
17
19
21
23
25
27
-30 0 30
The variation of parameters (%)
Co
nt
ac
t  
str
es
s (
M
Pa
)
chip thickness
Cu bump thickness
substrate thickness
nanocomposite thickness
bonding temperature
bonding force
 
(b) Residual contact stress on the Cu bumps 
 
15
17
19
21
23
25
-30 0 30
The variation of parameters (%)
Pe
el
in
g 
str
es
s (
M
Pa
)
chip thickness
Cu bump thickness
substrate thickness
nanocomposite thickness
bonding temperature
bonding force
 
(c) Residual peeling stress on the NCP 
 
Fig. 7 The effect of the geometry and process 
parameters on the residual behaviors 
 
 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學人 
出席國際學術會議報告 
 
 
 
國際計算暨實驗工程及科學研討會 
(International Conference on Computational & Experimental Engineering 
and Sciences) 
 
April 07~13, 2009, Phuket, Tailand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
報告人: 鄭仙志 
 
 
 
 
逢甲大學航太與系統工程學系 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中華民國九十八年四月十五日 
• CMES: Modern Mechanics of Solids & Structures  
• CMES: Modern Mechanics of Fluids , and Gases  
• CMES: Mechanics of Soft Matter  
• CMES: Mechanics, Biology, Chemistry, and Physics of Matter at Multiple 
Length & Time Scales  
• CMES: Mechanics of MEMS & NEMS  
• CMES: Topology Optimization, and General Structural Optimization  
• MNCM: Meshless Local Petrov-Galerkin Methods( Including LBIE), EFG  
• MNCM: Mesh-Reduction & Boundary Element Methods, Boundary Node & 
Hybrid Boundary Node Methods  
• MNCM: Trefftz Methods & method of Fundamental Solutions  
• MNCM: Trial Functions: MLS, RBF, & MQ  
• MNCM: SPH, Wavelets, levelsets, DE with Fractional Derivatives  
• MDCEM: Multiphysics & Multidisciplinary Engineering  
• MDCEM: Computational & Experimental Smart Structures Technology  
• MDCEM: Image Processing & Analysis  
 
今年小型研討場次含蓋： 
 
SYMPOSIUM Organizer(s) 
Applications of Biomechanics in
Performance Sports Prof. Emil Budescu 
Computational and Experimental Smart
Structures Technology Prof. R. Schmidt  
Cell & Molecular Biomechanics -
Experiments & Computation 
Profs C.T. Lim, Takami Yamaguchi, J.N. 
Reddy, Mohammad R. K. Mofrad 
Fracture and Failure of Heterogeneous
Materials 
Prof. Bhavani Sankar 
Prof. Youping Chen 
Image Processing and Analysis Prof. Joao Manuel R. S. Tavares 
Dr. Yongjie (Jessica) Zhang 
Dr. Maria Joao M. Vasconcelos  
Limit States and Risk Based Approaches Prof. Jeom Kee Paik  
Prof. Robert E. Melchers  
Prof. Satya N. Atluri  
Materials Modeling: Recent Progress in
Metal and Ceramic Based Systems  
Dr. Avinash M. Dongare  
Dr. Arunachalam M. Rajendran  
Meshless & Other Novel Computational
Methods 
Professors Darrell Pepper, 
Jan Sladek, Jurica Soric,  
Dimitri Polyzos,  
Bozidar Sarler,  
Zhenhan Yao,  
Satya N Atluri  
Modeling and Experiments of Complex
Engineering Systems  
Profs. H.K. Lee, C.B. Yun and Dr. B.S. 
Kim  
在病菌入侵紅血球並寄生於 RBD 細胞體內繁殖的過程中，健康彈性的 RBD 細
胞體會呈現彈塑性變形且逐漸硬化，終而導致 RBD 細胞體破壞。其亦探討為何
RESA 蛋白質(Protein)可有效抑制瘧疾病情，主因其可強化 RBD 細胞體之強度
(Stiffness)而免於細胞體逐漸硬化破壞。此一研究相當有助於找出抑制此一轉化
過程之新藥開發。Professor Suresh 的演講精采生動，令在場與會人士獲益匪淺。
Professor Suresh 說明此研究係整合全世界研究單位(含醫學院)合作完成的，更使
我深深覺的這個時代並非單打獨鬥的時代，而是相互整合與合作之的年代。其它
較特別的 Plenary 場次包括：北京大學副工學院院長 Prof. Xianyue Su 的
「Aeroelasticity Analysis of Wind Turbine Blades Based on CFD-CSD Coupling」， 
韓國 KAIST 大學 Prof. In Lee 的「Computational Analysis of Nonlinear Aeroelastic 
Phenomena for Aircraft Structures」，日本 Wakayama 大學 Dr. Motoharu Fujigaki
的「Whole-Space Tabulation Method for Real-time Shape Measurement and Compact 
Strain Distribution Measurement System」，義大利 Università di Bologna 大學 Dr. 
Elena Ferretti 的「Ability of the Cell Method of modelling nonlocality」，德國
Institute of Composite Structures and Adaptive Systems Dr. Christian Huehne 的
「Deterministic and Probabilistic Design Method for Composite Cylindrical Shells 
under Axial Compression」場場精采，收穫相當大。 
 
個人的論文共兩篇被安排在「Prof. Wen Hwa Chen 60th birthday symposium」
的時段，該 Mini-symposium 時間是四月十日從早到晚，有兩個平行場次，佔據
Conference Room A 及 B 兩間會議室，約 35 篇論文。個人的論文是在當天最後
一個場次，場次名稱為「Computational Solid Mechanics 」，論文題目為「On the 
Molecular Dynamics Analysis of Defect Effect on Mechanical Properties and Fracture 
Behaviors of Carbon Nanotubes」以及「Thermal Effect on the Vibrational Behaviors 
of Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes Using Molecular Dynamics and Modified 
Molecular Structure Mechanics」，場次主持人分別是蔡宏營教授及葉孟考教授。這
兩篇論文都是與國立清華大學動機系陳文華教授所共同合作之論文，並由學生上
台報告，演講過程相當順利，現場亦接受多位學者的問題，討論熱烈後，個人亦
從其問題中獲得重要資訊以做為未來進一步改進本研究之方向及目標。 
其餘幾天守在個人興趣之技術論文場次，如奈米尺度之計算及量測、微觀複
材力學之計算及量測及實驗、Mesoscale 計算力學、Biomechanics 等主題，亦碰
到舊雨新知，如天津大學之石教授、香港科技大學之 David Lam 教授、Kobe 大
學之 Prof. T. Hasebe 等等。彼此交換研究心得及研究成果，收獲甚豐。個人目前
之研究興趣著重在微奈米力學及材料，因此都停留在微奈米力學及材料及
Biomechanics 之場次。此一議題從早到晚都有相關場次。感嘆此一議題發展之快
速受到全世界學者之重視，世界各國特別是美日兩國於此議題所投入之經費物力
及人力亦令人咋舌。大會最後一天的前夕，大會準備晚宴及頒獎典禮，其中
SATYA N ATLURI MEDAL由 Professor Subra Suresh(Dean of Engineering, MIT)獲
三、建議 
 
1. 本屆大會主席係我國力學界耆宿：國立清華大學特聘講座教授兼台灣聯
合大學系統副校長、教育部國家講座陳文華教授擔任大會主席。為展現
我國在力學領域之研發實力，我國力學界前輩及學者頃巢而出，共襄勝
舉，論文水準無論是在量與質方面都相當整齊及高，受到大會之及與會
研究人員的注目，成功打響我國在力學領域之研發實力及知名度，證明
團體作戰之優勢，建議未來政府應多鼓勵國內學者組團參與以展現實
力，並於大會會務上扮演更重要的角色。 
2. 值得一提的是，本屆我國所投稿之部份論文係由學生報告，由以清大及
成大碩博班學生居多，無論是台風或是英文能力都相當不錯，足見近來
政府推動國際化，鼓勵學生參與國際社會以及研討會，收到相當成效，
令人欣慰。建議政府能持續挹注經費，鼓勵在學學生參與國際會議及發
表論文，除了可訓練學生英文論文發表之能力及技巧，更可擴展學生國
際視野與國際接軌，又可展現我國知名度及研究所教育的成功以吸引國
外學生來台就讀，一舉數得。 
3. 近年來微奈米科技及生物力學有相當快速的發展。目前各國政府及企業
無不大量投入人力及物力於科技上之發展，特別是在微奈米元件與材料
及生物醫學上之開發。從參與本次研討會之所見所聞得知，幾乎世界各
大研究團隊及大廠都相當重視此一領域。一般皆認為此兩領域加上光電
將是世界未來發展最受注目、期待及潛力之方向，建議政府應密切重視
及掌握這些領域之發展脈動，更要在研究經費上支持才能與全世界各大
研究團隊一較高下，而喪失先機。 
4. 相較於傳統學門或科技，微奈米科技因牽涉跨領域、跨學門且其尺寸十
分小達微奈米尺度，而基礎物理化學之研究人員雖對上述微奈米尺度世
界有充足的認識，但對工程領域又不熟悉，因此其研究大抵僅只於基礎
研究，因此亟需雙方面共同團隊合作方能將此一科技落實成為產業及產
品。建議政府應主動整合相關領域，微奈米科技才有可能成為國內下一
個實質之產業。 
5. 奈米科技發展如同其他工業發展有可能會帶來負面的影響，如微奈米顆
粒所建構之產品，因其尺寸較小，較易溶於水及被人體吸收的優點，但
亦極有可能穿過腸壁而滲入到其他器官且造成囤積而對人體產生危
害，或滲透到自然界而對自然界之平衡產生影響，因此政府及研發單位
在全力發展奈米相關科技的同時，亦必須儘早未雨綢繆的規畫因應之
道，以預防其負面缺點所可能帶來的災難。 
 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
On the Molecular Dynamics Analysis of Defect Effect on Mechanical 
Properties and Fracture Behaviors of Carbon Nanotubes 
 
 
Hsien-Chie Cheng1, Yu-Chen Hsu2, Wen-Hwa Chen2
1 Department of Aerospace and Systems Engineering, Feng Chia University, Taichung, 
Taiwan. 
2 Department of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan. 
 
Abstract 
The study attempts to explore the effects of atomistic defects on the mechanical 
properties and fracture behaviors of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) using molecular 
dynamics (MD) simulation. Key parameters under investigation include the number in 
percentage, type (namely atomic vacancy and Stone-Wales defects) and location of 
atomistic defects. Results show that the mechanical properties of CNTs, such as the 
elastic modulus, failure strength and strain, are greatly affected by the defects. In 
addition, the CNTs become very brittle as the strain attains a critical value. Moreover, 
the fracture crack propagates quickly along the high atomistic-level stress region, and 
the initial distribution of the defects is another key factor determining the fracture 
crack propagation path.  
 
Introduction 
Over the last decade, extensive researches on the physical characteristics of 
CNTs have been extensively carried out. Most of these studies focused on the 
characterization of their material properties and behaviors under the assumption of a 
perfect atomic structure. However, according to published literatures (Ebbesen and 
Takada, 1995; Hahn et al., 1996; Mawhinney et al., 2000; Andrews et al., 2001; 
Hashimoto et al., 2004), atomistic defects would be often introduced in CNTs during 
the chemical treatment and fabrication process due to the limitation of fabrication 
technologies nowadays. Unfortunately, their effects on the mechanical properties and 
fracture behaviors are barely discussed. Thus, the study attempts to address these 
problems through MD simulation. In the MD simulation, the force field between two 
carbon atoms is modeled with the Tersoff-Brenner (TB) potential. To define the 
Cauchy stress in the atomistic level, the Shen and Atluri’s model [24] that transfers 
 1
heptagons through 90° rotation of two carbon atoms with respect to the midpoint of 
the bond, as shown in Fig. 1. By way of the uniaxial tensile test using MD simulation, 
the stress-strain relationship, elastic modulus, ultimate strength/strain, fracture 
evolution and fracture propagation path of these defected CNTs are substantially 
evaluated. 
 
Effect of Defect Proportion 
The effects of defect proportion in CNTs on their mechanical properties are first 
addressed. The defected single-walled armchair nanotube under investigation consists 
of a radius of 0.76nm and a length of 11.99nm. According to Hashimoto et al. (2004), 
a rough estimation of the proportion of the defect in a grapheme layer is about 0.3 
atom per nm2, equal to 0.71% atom amount. In this study, atomic vacancy defects are 
created by randomly removing some atoms from a CNT based on a specific defect 
amount. In this investigation, the percentages of atoms removed include 0.3%, 0.6%, 
1%, and 2%. The stress-strain curves under the different defect percentages are 
presented in Fig. 2. The results show that the averaged elastic moduli associated with 
these defect rates are 859GPa, 812GPa, 766GPa and 670GPa. Clearly, the axial elastic 
modulus of the defected CNTs decreases with an increasing defect percentage. 
Comparing with the elastic modulus of the perfect CNTs, which is 900GPa, the 
averaged decrease rates in the elastic modulus are about 4.56%, 9.78%, 14.89% and 
25.56% decrease corresponding to the above defect rates. On the other hand, the 
ultimate strengths of these defected CNTs are 172GPa, 166GPa, 150GPa and 134GPa, 
associated with the defect proportions. As compared with the perfect CNT, there is 
about 11.79%, 14.87%, 23.08% and 31.28% decrease, respectively, in the ultimate 
strength for the defected ones. Likewise, the ultimate strain of the defected CNTs 
would decrease with the increase of the defect amount, where as much as 
30.32%~38.95% drops, respectively, can be detected. 
Moreover, the effects of the Stone-Wales defect on the mechanical properties are 
also discussed. It is found that the ultimate strength and the associated strain of CNTs 
with the Stone-Wales defect are all larger than those of the atomic vacancy defect. The 
ultimate strength is 93GPa and the associated strain is 0.37, which are 11% and 23% 
larger than those of the atomic vacancy defect. This can be explained by that the 
Stone-Wales defect is formed simply through the so-called “pyracylene” 
transformation or atom rearrangement without any atom removal, thus retaining better 
integrity in atomistic structure and having a less impact on the mechanical properties. 
 
Evolution of Fracture 
 3
partial financial support of the research under grants NSC 95-2221-E-007-013-MY3 
and NSC95-2221-E-035-018-MY3. 
 
Reference 
1. Andrews, R.; Jacques, D.; Qian, D.; Dickey, E. C. (2001): Purification and 
structural annealing of multiwalled carbon nanotubes at graphitization 
temperatures. Carbon 39: 1681-1687. 
2. Belytschko, T.; Xiao, S. P.; Schatz, G. C.; Ruoff, R. S. (2002): Atomistic 
simulations of nanotube fracture. Physical Review B 65: 235430. 
3. Brenner, D. W. (1990): Empirical Potential for Hydrocarbons for Use in 
Simulating the Chemical Vapor Deposition of Diamond Films. Physical Review B, 
42: 9458-9471. 
4. Ebbesen, T. W.; Takada, T. (1995): Topological and sp3 defect structures in 
nanotubes. Carbon 33: 937-978. 
5. Hahn, J. R.; Kang, H.; Song, S.; Jeon, I. C. (1996): observation of charge 
enhancement induced by graphite atomic vacancy: A comparative STM and AFM 
study. Physical Review B 53: R1725-R1728. 
6. Hashimoto, A.; Suennaga, K.; Gloter, A; Urita, K.; Iijima, S. (2004): Direct 
evidence for atomic defects in graphene layers. Nature 430: 870-873. 
7. Mawhinney, D. B.; Naumenko, V.; Kuznetsova, A.; Yates Jr., J. T.; Liu, J.; 
Smalley, R. E. (2000): Surface defect site density on single walled carbon 
nanotubes by titration. Chemical Physics Letters 324: 213-216. 
8. Shen, S.; Atluri S. N. (2004): Atomic-level stress calculation and 
continuum-molecular system equivalence. Computer Modeling in Engineering 
and Sciences 6: 91-104. 
9. Tserpes, K. I.; Papanikos, P.; Tsirkas, S. A. (2006): A progressive fracture 
model for carbon nanotubes. Composites: Part B 37: 662-669. 
10. Yu, M.; Lourie, O.; Dyer, M.; Moloni, K.; Kelly, T.; Ruoff, R. (2000):  
Strength and breaking mechanism of multiwalled carbon nanotubes under tensile 
load. Science 287: 637-640. 
 
 
 
 
 
 5
of armchair nanotube with vacancy defect 
 7
 2
Keywords: Single-Walled Carbon Nanotubes, Molecular Dynamics, Nosé-Hoover Thermostat, 
Molecular Structure Mechanics, Thermal Effect; Vibrational Analysis. 
 
1. Introduction 
 Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have become one of the most extensively studied nanomaterials in 
research ever since their discovery by Iijima (1991). Because of many extraordinary electrical, 
thermal and mechanical properties, CNTs have been proposed for use in many novel 
nano-structures and electrical/electronic devices, including fine probe for microscope technology 
(Akita et al., 2000), reinforcing material or light-weight smart material for nano-composites (Lau 
and Hui, 2002), inter-tube junctions of electric nano-circuits (Terrones et al., 2002) and 
electromechanical sensors (Maiti, 2002) etc. For full realization of the nanotechnology in 
engineering applications, a great number of research has been conducted on the characterization of 
the material properties of CNTs. In literature, the mechanical properties of CNTs have been 
extensively studied by many researches through a variety of experimental and theoretical methods. 
For example, Treacy et al. (1996) estimated the Young’s modulus of cantilevered MWCNTs 
subjected to thermal vibration based on the free-end amplitude measured by transmission electron 
microscope and Yu et al. (2000) measured the tensile strengths of multi-walled carbon nanotubes 
through the tensile-loading experiment with scanning electron microscope. Others can be seen also 
in Lourie and Wagner (1998), Krishnan et al (1998), and Poncharal et al. (1999). However, not to 
mention without the limitation of the specimen size from the experimental methods, the 
computational approaches including the classical MD simulations and multi-temporal and spatial 
scale simulations also hold other essential features such as cost-effectiveness and efficiency, and are 
thus in widespread use in nanmechanics (Shen and Atluri, 2004a). For instance, Lu (1997) 
estimated the Young’s modulus and Poisson’s ratio of S/MWCNTs based on an empirical 
force-constant model; Hernandez et al. (1998) calculated the Young’s modulus of single-walled 
carbon nanotubes based on nonorthogonal tight-binding formalism; Lier et al. (2000) applied the ab 
initio method to calculate the Young’s modulus and Poisson’s ratio of SWCNTs etc; and Chen et al. 
thermal expansion (CTE) of CNTs; and Kwon et al. (2004) adopted the MD simulation employing 
the NH thermostat method (Nos`e, 1984; Hoover, 1985) to calculate the CTE of SWCNTs and C60. 
The NH thermostat method is widely adopted due to its efficiency and robustness. Thus, the present 
MD simulation employs the Nosé-Hoover (NH) thermostat method for simulating the constant 
temperature condition. The NH thermostat is formulated based on the idea of thermal reservoir (an 
external system) to control the system temperature, where it allows for fluctuation in the total 
energy of the physical system by introducing an additional degree of freedom or variable. Using a 
particular potential for the variable, the calculated quantities by this method guarantee to be equal to 
those in canonical ensemble. To validate the effectiveness of the present MD simulation, the 
modeled results are compared with the published theoretical and experimental data, and also those 
at the room temperature of the equivalent-continuum modeling (ECM) based on a MSM model (Li 
and Chou, 2003a, b; Cheng et al., 2009). 
2. MD Simulation 
2.1 The Tersoff-Brenner Potential 
 The current MD simulation employs the Tersoff-Brenner potential (Brenner, 1990) for 
modeling the covalent bonds between any two adjacent carbon atoms. The total covalent potential 
 of a system is denoted as the sum of individual covalent bond energy:  covE
   { }( ) ( ) ( )c ij R ij ij A ijE f r V r b V r=cov - ,                              (1) 
where  is the distance between two joining atoms. In order to facilitate the computation of 
equilibrium of atoms in a CNT system, a cutoff function  is embedded in the 
Tersoff-Brenner potential. Basically, the cutoff function is a simple decaying function that shows 
the weighting of covalent bonds under some distance and varies from 0 to 1. Furthermore, 
ijr
)( ijc rf
( )R ijV r  
and  represent the repulsive and attractive interactions, respectively. Moreover,  denotes 
the modification of the covalent bonding energy depending on 
( )A ijV r ijb
jikθ , the bonding angle between 
 4
( ) 2 2' 1 2 2, , , 3 ln2 2
N
i s
Nos e N B
i i
H U r r r Nk T s
m s Q
π π= + +∑ rr r rL + , (4) 
where 
2
22
N
i
i im s
π∑ r  is the kinetic energy of the physical system, iπr  the momentum of particle  of 
the physical system in terms of the virtual time 
i
τ  and equal to ii rsm &v2 ,  the mass of particle , 
 and 
im i
3 lnBNk T s
2
2
s
Q
π  the potential and kinetic energy of the external system, respectively,  
Boltzmann’s constant, T  the externally set temperature, 
Bk
sπ  the momentum of the external 
system in terms of the virtual time τ  and equal to , and  the effective mass of the external 
system which determines the time scale and affects the temperature fluctuation. 
sQ & Q
Based on the Hamiltonian equation of motion, the scaling relations of the momenta between 
 and t τ are 
i
ip s
π=
rr  (5) 
and 
s
sp s
π= , (6) 
where ip
r  and sp  are the momenta of particle  and , respectively, in terms of the real time . 
As a result, the equations of motion of particles at time  are 
i s t
t
( 1,2, ,i i
i
dr p i N
dt m
= =
r r
L ) , (7) 
( 1,2, , )i i
i
pdp U p i N
dt r Q
η∂= − − =∂
r r Lr , (8) 
pd
dt Q
ηη =  (9) 
2
1
32
2 2
N
i
B
i i
dp p Nk T
dt m
η
=
⎡ ⎤= −⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦∑
r
, (10) 
where η  and pη  are two parameters used in replace of  and s sp , respectively, and their 
relations are denoted by, 
ln sη =  (11) 
and 
 6
By comparing the energy of the equivalent beam with above potential energy, the stiffness 
parameters of the equivalent beam can be derived as: 
 r
E AK
L
= , E IK
Lθ
=  and G JK
Lτ
= . (14) 
As the force constants rK , Kθ , Kτ , and bond length L are known from Cornell et al. (1995), the 
stiffness parameters, EA , EI  and GJ , can then be evaluated. 
 
4. Results and Discussion 
The dependence of the thermal effects on the vibrational behaviors of SWCNTs, including the 
natural frequency, natural modes as well as Young’s modulus, is investigated. In the MD 
simulations, a time step second and an equilibrating time steps of  time steps 
are used. In addition, a random sampling method is performed to take a sample out of every 1,000 
time steps.  
165 10t −Δ = × 62 10×
 
4.1 Vibrational Behavior 
Table 1 presents the first four natural frequencies at a temperature range from 100K to 1200K using 
the constant temperature MD simulation. In addition, the results of the MSM model at the room 
temperature are also shown in the table. The associated mode shapes using these two approaches are 
presented in Figure 3. Both results show an identical mode shape, where the first, third and fourth 
ones are a beam-like (flexural) mode while the third is a shell-like (radial) mode.  
The natural frequencies of the first mode all remain the same across the temperature range. This 
is due to the limited calculation precision of the present modeling. On the other hand, the second, 
third and fourth modes decrease as the temperature rises. This implies that the stiffness of the 
SWCNTs tends to decrease with an increasing temperature. Moreover, the difference in the modeled 
frequencies of these modes except the first one is about 5~6% at the temperature range, which 
implies that the thermal effects on the vibrational behaviors of the CNTs at this temperature range 
are not significant.  
 8
 10
with the results obtained from other MD simulations, i.e., 0.25~1.5TPa (Cornwell and Wille, 1997) 
and  0.48~0.50TPa (Halicioglu, 1998), and also experimental method, i.e., 0.4~3.7TPa (Treacy et 
al. 1996). 
 
5. Conclusions 
In this study, the constant temperature MD simulation incorporating the NH thermostat method 
is utilized to investigate the thermal effects on the vibrational behaviors of a SWCNT, and also the 
associated dynamic Young’s modulus. The modeled results show that an increase of the temperature 
would decrease the natural frequencies as well as the Young’s modulus of the SWCNT. The 
difference in the natural frequencies across the temperature range (100K~1200K) is about 5-6% and 
that of the dynamic Young’s modulus is about 10%. Besides, the mode shapes obtained from both 
the MD simulation and the MSM model are exactly the same, where the first, second and fourth 
modes are a flexural model and the third a radial mode. Furthermore, there is a comparable ratio 
(i.e., about 6) in the natural frequency of two different modes between these approaches. The result 
is quite consistent with the experiment data. The calculated dynamic Young’s modulus (about 
0.34~0.38TPa) also agrees well with other MD simulation and experimental data.  
These two approaches presented can be extended to the exploration of the effect of the 
environmental temperature on other material properties of nanomaterials. 
 
Acknowledgement 
The authors are grateful to the National Science Council, Taiwan, R.O.C., under grants 
NSC95-2221-E-035-018-MY3 and NSC95-2221-E-007-013-MY3 for the partial financial supports 
of this work. 
 
Reference 
[1] Brenner, D.W., 1990, “Empirical potential for hydrocarbons for use in simulating the chemical 
 12
Physical Review A, Vol. 31, pp.1695. 
[11] Iijima, S., 1991, “Helical microtubules of graphitic carbon,” Nature, Vol. 354, pp.56-58. 
[12] Li, C. Y. and Chou, T. W., 2003a, “A structural mechanics approach for the analysis of carbon 
nanotubes,” International Journal of Solid and Structures, Vol. 40, pp. 2487. 
[13] Li, C. Y. and Chou, T. W., 2003b, “Elastic moduli of multi-walled carbon nanotubes and the 
effect of van der Waals forces,” Composite Science and Technology, Vol. 63, pp. 1517. 
[14] Li, C. Y. and Chou, T. W., 2003c “Single-Walled carbon nanotubes as ultrahigh frequency 
nanomechanical resonators,” Physical Review B, Vol. 68, pp. 073405. 
[15] Li, C. Y. and Chou, T. W., 2004, “Vibrational behavior of multiwalled-carbon-nanotube-based 
nanomechanical resonators,” Applied Physics Letters, Vol. 84, pp. 121. 
[16] Meo, M. and Rossi, M., “Prediction of Young's modulus of single wall carbon nanotubes by 
molecular-mechanics based finite element method,” Composites Science and Technology 2006, 
Vol.66, pp.1597-1605. 
[17] Meo, M. and Rossi, M., “A molecular-mechanics based finite element model for strength 
prediction of single wall carbon nanotubes,” Materials Science and Engineering: A, Vol. 
454-455, pp.170-177.  
[18] Nosé, S., 1984, “A molecular dynamics method for simulation in the canonical ensemble,” 
Molecular physics, Vol. 52, pp. 255. 
[19] Poncharal, P., Wang, Z. L., Ugarte, D., de Heer, W. A., 1999, “Electrostatic Deflections and 
Electromechanical Resonances of Carbon Nanotubes,” Science, Vol. 283, pp. 1513. 
[20] Rao, S. S., 2004, “Mechanical Vibrations 4th edition,” Addison Wesley, USA. 
[21] Treacy, M. M. J., Ebbesen, T. W., Gibson, J. M., 1996, “Exceptionally high Young’s modulus 
observed for individual carbon nanotubes,” Nature, Vol. 381, pp. 151. 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Thermal vibration frequency versus temperature for (5,5) SWCNT. 
 
Mode MMSM MD(100K) MD(300K) MD(800K) MD(1200K) 
1 0.023 0.016 0.016 0.016 0.016 
2 0.139 0.098 0.096 0.094 0.092 
3 0.307 0.206 0.202 0.198 0.195 
4 0.369 0.260 0.259 0.252 0.246 
unit: Hz 910
 14
  
 
 16
0.08 0.12 0.16 0.2
Distance r  (nm)ij
-1e-018
0
1e-018
2e-018
3e-018
4e-018
Po
te
nt
ia
l E
ne
rg
y(
J)
                         
θjik=60° 
θjik=90° 
θjik=180° 
θjik=150° 
θjik=120°
 
 
Figure 2 Tersoff-Brenner potential versus distance with different bonding angle 
 
 
 
