those steps which can give rise to dissipative 
concentration oscillations. Rather, in this article, our 
objective is primarily to recognize the possibility of 
the simplest BZ type micropyretic reactions and 
discuss some special cases where the wavelength of 
Lewis type oscillations are similar to the particular 
formulation of BZ oscillations that we describe below. 
The simplest BZ is a Brusselator which is formulated 
below. The BZ is neither related to stable nor unstable 
propagation of a combustion front or combustion zone. 
The main aim of this article is to discuss the possible 
sub-reaction formulation of BZ oscillations in a 
micropyretic experiment. We show below a new BZ 
sequence which involves melting and solidification 
for a simple Brusselator. We find that the BZ 
formulation could be a method to infer the final 
chemistry in a micropyretic synthesis experiment 
where such oscillation may occur. 
In this report, we extend the formulation for a 
special synthesis case in order to include possible BZ 
reactions together with the simple Brusselator model 
(for BZ) discussed below. A comparison of the BZ 
modeling results is also made with one of the few 
published articles where the oscillation frequency and 
composition has been measured in a micropyretically 
synthesized object. Although the heat flow is 
predominantly one dimensional and treated as such in 
typical moving-front wave combustion, the BZ 
reaction sequence can be multi-dimensional and not as 
convenient to track. The model discussed below is 
simplified by assuming that the chemical reactions 
proceed in an overall direction of the wave front. 
 
2. Brusselator model 
In the original Brusselator model which displays 
oscillations for the intermediaries, all that is required 
for a chemical oscillator is the following sequence: 
A → X (1a) 
B + X → Y + D (1b) 
2X + Y → 3X (1c) 
X → E, (1d) 
for an overall entropy producing reaction A+B → 
D+E. X and Y are the intermediaries. When 
considering a spatially moving front such as a 
combustion front, the concentrations of A and B are 
maintained at non-equilibrium levels by flows of 
reactants which can be continuously enabled by the 
unreacted part of the overall body of reactants as the 
combustion wave propagates. The overall equation 
can thus at least in principle include the same 
substance with different defect chemistries (a 
possibility only in solid state reactants and products) 
or include a liquid melt with differing amounts of 
solute in different parts of the melt. Solid powders are 
of course not as homogeneously mixed like fluids. 
One of the assumptions in our analysis is that a well 
mixed powder compact specially one which can 
display a liquid metal intermediary can be treated as a 
homogeneous mixture. Such an assumption is 
sometimes made in the catalytic reaction synthesis. As 
mentioned above, when discussing BZ reactions, 
complexities in the sub-reactions can be considerable, 
e.g., the Oreganator model which includes many more 
sub-reaction steps. Similarly for micropyretic 
reactions, where the surrounding atmosphere is 
considered in the reaction, the number of steps could 
be large because of the components introduced by the 
atmosphere. 
Considerable flexibility in solving for 
concentrations in a multi-reaction formulation is 
enabled by normalizing the concentrations with the 
initial concentration of the species A. The rate of 
formation of the products in each forward step of Eqs. 
(1a)-(1d) is equivalent to the product of the 
concentrations of the reactants multiplied by the 
reaction constant (k) (which is also a function of 
temperature for the reactions). When the critical 
condition is exceed, namely, when the dimensionless 
concentration species B (expressed as [B]) is greater 
than the RHS of the bifurcation condition shown in Eq. 
(2) below, i.e., when, 
][][ 2
42
2
13
2
4 A
kk
kk
k
k
B
ff
ff
f
f +> , (2) 
then oscillations are obtained in the concentration of 
the intermediary species X and Y. Here the subscript f 
refers to the forward reaction and the subscripts 1-4 
refer to Eqs. (1a) - (1d) respectively. The oscillations 
of the Brusselator intermediates X and Y in Eqs. (1a) - 
(1d) may be plotted using a Mathematica code. In the 
calculation, the initial concentrations of reactants A 
and B are assumed to 1.0 and 3.0 (dimensionless), 
respectively. For the calculation the reaction rate 
constants assumed are k1f=1.0, k2f=1.0, k3f=1.0, and 
k4f=1.0 which gives a Brusselator oscillation. When 
the concentrations are normalized, all the rate 
constants have the units of frequency i.e., 1/s. Figure 1 
shows that concentration of the intermediates 
increases and decreases with the progress of the 
reaction. The reaction sequence above (Eqs. (1a) to 
(1d)) can be captured in the Ti-B and Ni-Al alloy 
systems as shown below. 
10 20 30 40
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
 (a) 10 20 30 40
2
3
4
 (b) 
Figure 1. Oscillations of intermediate concentrations of (a) X 
and (b) Y in Eqs. (1a) - (1d) in the Brusselator. The 
vertical and horizontal axes are the dimensionless 
concentrations of intermediates and time (s) 
respectively. 
 
3.Ti-B system 
The substitution of reactants and intermediaries A, 
B, X, and Y in Eq. (1) by Titanium(Ti), Boron(B), 
Ti[O](l), and (TiB) may be made. The product 
substitution D = TiB2 and E = TiB can now be made 
in the ambient ignition temperature is also equivalent 
to increasing the input enthalpy for the ignition, 
further enhancing the reaction temperature and the 
stability. Thus stable reaction fronts are in a way 
analogous to the existence of homogeneous reaction 
conditions in a more extended region compared to 
unstable combustion fronts. 
 
Figure 3. (a) The combustion temperature (Tc, K) and (b) the 
fraction-reacted (η, %) profile at the time of 0.052 s 
after ignition of the equimolar Ti+B reaction for a 
mixture of 50 mol.% Ti and 50 mol.% B. The 
specimen is ignited at 300K from the left end. Note 
the existence of a large reaction zone until the 
temperature falls below the final solidification 
temperature even though the compound forming 
reaction steps occur in a narrower region.  
 
For the equimolar Ti-B reaction with a Ko value 
set at 1 x 1012 s-1, the ambient ignition temperature has 
to be increased to 600K for a stable wave propagation. 
Figure 4 is a plot of the combustion temperature and 
propagation velocity for this ambient ignition 
temperature. At steady state the values of combustion 
temperature and velocity are calculated to be 2650 K 
and 361 mm/s, respectively. The combustion front 
only takes 0.030 s to propagate 1-cm specimen. The 
temperature and fraction-reacted profiles captured a 
single time step of the specimens ignited at 600K is 
presented in Fig. 4. When compared with the previous 
results (300K ambient ignition temperature ignition), 
the calculated highest combustion temperature is 
higher (i.e., 2660K vs. 2250K). In addition, the 
fraction-reacted is noted to decrease to zero more 
sharply.  
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8
Distance, cm
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
, K
10th time step
 
Figure 4.  Temperature profiles of combustion front at various 
times along the specimen for the Ti + B stoichiometric 
reaction (Eq. (10a)). The ambient ignition 
temperature of the specimen is 600 K. 
 
Two intermediates, namely liquid Ti and reaction 
TiB, are proposed in the Brusselator sequence. The 
concentration of liquid in each location can also be 
calculated from the temperature and fraction-reacted 
calculation shown above. Figure 5(a) shows that the 
concentration of the liquid fraction oscillates in an 
unsteady manner for the unstable micropyretic 
reaction ignited at 300 K. The oscillation wavelength 
of melting liquid ranges from 0.030 to 0.050 cm. 
When the ambient ignition temperature is increased 
from 300K to 600K, the oscillation becomes stable 
and the average oscillation wavelength of melting 
liquid is decreased to ~0.022 cm (Fig. 5(b)). In 
addition, the oscillating amplitude is also dramatically 
decreased. Note from Figs. 3 that the width of the 
combustion front is more than 0.15 cm. If the 
propagation front is considered as a steady-moving 
volume, then it is found from Figs. 3 and 5(b) that the 
reaction zone is not only large enough to permit 
oscillations of intermediates but also that the reaction 
zone can accommodate at least five oscillating cycles. 
This could be considered as encompassing a BZ 
reaction occurring in this high temperature 
micropyretic reaction which can be captured by a 
combined heat flow and Brusselator analysis.  
 
Figure 5. The variations in the intermediate (Ti liquid) 
concentrations (dimensionless) along the specimens 
for the micropyretic reaction of Ti + 2B. The ambient 
ignition temperatures of specimens are (a) 300K and 
(b) 600K respectively. The average propagation 
velocities over a 10mm distance are 27 mm/s and 361 
mm/s for specimens ignited at 300K and 600K, 
respectively 
 
3.2. Inverse calculation of reaction constants 
The variations in intermediate concentration with 
time can also be determined by solving the differential 
equations containing the forward reaction rate 
constants. If the values of the concentrations for 
starting materials ([Ti] and [B]) and the reaction rate 
constants are known, then the correlations of the 
intermediate concentrations of melting liquid ([X]) 
and TiB ([Y]) with time can be obtained. The reaction 
time and temperature profiles generated in the heat 
flow numerical calculation can be thus used to 
estimate the rate constant. To simplify the calculation 
and estimate the rate constant from temperature 
profiles, the initial stoichiometric composition are 
considered in a dimensionless form in Eqs. (3) and (4). 
Since the concentration is dimensionless, units for 
each reaction rate constants (ki) of four elementary 
steps (Eqs. (3a)–(3d)), i.e., the unit of ki is s-1. From 
the known reaction time and concentration, the rate 
constants for each sub-reaction can thus be estimated. 
