1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
(以模糊類聚分析挖掘消費者體型特徵 
建立目標市場生產標準提升差異化行銷績效) 
(Mining body features to develop the sizing systems and improve 
differentiating marketing using fuzzy clustering approach) 
 
計 畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-164 -008 - 
執 行期限：97年 8月 1日至 98年 7月 31日 
主 持 人：徐志宏 
計畫參與人員：李子元、林泰穎、徐佳佑、陸微瑩 
    
3 
for classifying sizes to maximize expected 
sales; McCulloch et al. [13] proposed a 
non-linear optimization approach for 
deriving a set of sizes; Chang and Shen [3] 
applied multivariate analysis to establish 
body measurement charts for females from 
18 to 22. Laing et al. [12] used statistical 
analysis to establish body measurement 
charts for protective clothing used by New 
Zealand firemen. Moon and Nam [14] 
measured the anthropometric data of 349 
Korean females aged over 60 to classify 
lower trunk body types. Gupta and 
Gangadhar [8] used a statistical model to 
establish body measurement charts for 
young Indian females; and Hsu and Wang [9] 
established systems for using a decision tree 
technique for determining the sizes of army 
soldiers. Additionally, Hsu et al. [10] 
determined the body types for developing 
female size charts by using data mining. 
The data mining is executed in various 
manners such as statistics, decision trees, 
artificial neural networks, and genetic 
algorithms, etc. Within the whole process of 
data mining, it is always repeated with 
below four procedures [2].  
(1) Identifying the program: Firstly clearly 
define and frame the questioning scope 
and research target such as how the 
customer’s special demand being well 
known by business.  
(2) Analyzing the data: Use the data mining 
tools to analyze a great deal of 
information to locate the currently 
usable data. 
(3) Taking action: According to the usable 
information reached, create the adequate 
action projects for decision making. 
(4) Measuring the outcome: Evaluate the 
mining efficiency according to the 
satisfaction degree and effectively use 
the results for next cycle of 
improvement. 
 
One of the most important data 
mining techniques is cluster analysis, which 
is an exploratory data analysis tool for 
solving classification problems. Its object is 
to sort cases into clusters, so that the degree 
of association is strong between members of 
the same cluster and weak between members 
of different clusters. The cluster analysis 
includes both hierarchical and 
non-hierarchical methods [6]. In fuzzy 
clustering, data elements can belong to more 
than one cluster, and associated with each 
element is a set of membership levels. These 
indicate the strength of the association 
between that data element and a particular 
cluster. Fuzzy clustering is a process of 
assigning these membership levels, and then 
using them to assign data elements to one or 
more clusters. 
The operation steps of fuzzy 
clustering [7]: 
(a) Build the characteristic index matrix for 
fuzzy clustering analysis;  
(b) Data standardization: The dimensions 
and magnitude orders of m characteristic 
indexes may vary, so data 
standardization must be performed for 
each index value to eliminate the 
influence caused by variable units and 
different magnitude orders of the 
characteristic indexes; 
(c) Build the fuzzy similar matrix: When 
data of ),2,1;,,2,1( mjniuij ×××=×××=  has 
all been standardized, the degree of 
similarity between 
sample ),,,( 21 imiii uuuu ×××=  and 
),,,( 21 jmjjj uuuu ×××=  can be determined 
through the method of multivariate 
analysis as: 
njiuuRr jiij ,,2,1,,],1,0[),( ×××=Î= and 
therefore the fuzzy similar matrix 
nnijrR ´= )(  among the samples can be 
built;  
(d) Build the fuzzy equivalent matrix: The 
fuzzy similar matrix among samples, as 
built through above steps, may not be 
necessarily of transitivity, and should be 
reformed to get a fuzzy equivalent 
matrix. The specific reform is to build 
the transitive closure of similarity by 
obtaining the square of R , that’s 
5 
2.3 Data mining by fuzzy clustering 
 
Data mining was undertaken through 
data preparation, using the fuzzy clustering 
to mine the patterns of anthropometric data 
for identifying significant rules within body 
dimensions.  
This study discovered that three 
clusters are appropriate for clustered result 
by the fuzzy clustering. To gain a better 
insight into the differences between the three 
clusters resulting from the cluster analysis, 
the Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was then 
conducted. In order to verify the 
anthropometric variables of all body types, 
and to determine whether notable 
differences existed among them. As the 
results that the three clusters did not bear 
significant differences in the height 
anthropometric variables. The girth 
anthropometric variables have significant 
differences.  
Therefore, this study defined the body 
type, formed by cluster 3, with large girth 
anthropometric variables, as type L; the 
body type, formed by cluster 2, with 
medium girth anthropometric variables, 
were defined as type M; and the body type, 
formed by cluster 1, with small girth 
anthropometric variables, were defined as 
type S. This definition of the three body 
types, used in this study, is shown in Table 1. 
No significant differences among the three 
body types in the height anthropometric 
variables. 
 
Table 1  Definitions of three body types 
 
The analysis of variance (ANOVA) 
and the Scheffe’s test were then performed 
for identifying the differences among the 
various body types. The results identified 
that differences did exist between the girth 
anthropometric variables of the three body 
types, such as bust girth, waist girth and hip 
girth (p＜ .05). 
This fuzzy clustering-based data 
mining approach provides an alternative for 
the identification of body types to facilitate 
clothing manufacture and differentiating 
marketing for manufacturers and consumers. 
Clothing manufacturers can foresee the 
differences of various body types to create 
effective clothing design and production 
planning for specific markets. 
 
2.4 Development of standard sizing 
systems 
 
Having classified the population into 
three body types, the new standard sizing 
systems were developed by using the 
professional judgment of women’s clothing 
experts.  
The size range and scale for each 
body dimension was identified. The bust 
girth and waist girth and stature were chosen 
to represent control dimensions and were 
then used to assign appropriate sizes. 
Furthermore, the bust girth was used as the 
basis for other secondary dimensions. The 
secondary dimensions, that represented the 
mean value in each size group, were used to 
define clothing sizes [11]. Since most 
countries use 4cm as the traditional size 
scale for bust girth [11, 16], a gradient of 
4cm between consecutive sizes for bust girth 
was maintained. Table 2 lists a 
representative standard sizing system for the 
M body type with seven size groups.  
In addition to standard sizing systems 
being developed based on the professional 
judgment of women’s clothing experts, the 
numbers in every size group for all of the 
standard sizing systems were also decided 
based on the aggregate loss of fit.  
The aggregate loss was employed as a 
measure of clothing fit in developing new 
standard sizing systems. An optimal 
standard sizing system containing a given 
number of sizes is defined as a system that 
minimizes aggregate loss. In such a standard 
sizing system the average of the Euclidean 
Clusters 3 2 1 
Numbers 48 425 53 
Count (%) 8.9 80.9 10.2 
Girth 
variables 
Large Medium Small 
Height 
variables  
－ － － 
Body 
types 
L M S 
7 
3.  APPLICATION OF RESULTS 
Having classified the females into three 
body types, the new classified body types were 
identified using fuzzy clustering-based data 
mining procedure. Body types could be 
accurately classified for garment manufacturing 
according the newly classification rules. The 
sizing systems for female’s garment are shown 
in Table 2. 
Taking the sizing systems used in the 
garment manufacturing industry as an example, 
garment manufacturers can correctly predict 
numbers of items and ratio of sizes to be 
produced, resulting in accurate inventory control 
and production planning according the newly 
classified body types. Furthermore, the sizing 
systems thus developed provide the percentage 
of females, and the distribution of body types, 
enabling manufacturers to access reference 
points and facilitating garment production for 
specific markets, and supplying effective 
manufacturing information, improving the 
movement, storage and processing of materials 
and information across the whole of the supply 
chain. The standard sizing systems can then be 
developed to integrate and collaborate logistics 
operations internally with different functions 
and departments inside the organization such as 
marketing, finance and HR etc., and also 
externally with business partners such as 
suppliers and customers.  
The data mining procedure emphasizes the 
dataset information by repeating interaction 
activities. Since people’s body types and 
dimensions can change rapidly, the 
anthropometric database must be updated 
continually; therefore, the fuzzy 
clustering-based data mining approach, 
proposed in this study, will continually update 
the anthropometric database and continually 
develop the latest sizing systems. These revised 
sizing systems will exactly represent female 
body types and dimensions, allowing 
manufacturers access to the latest sizing systems, 
thus facilitating garment production and 
differentiating marketing. 
 
4.  CONCLUSIONS 
 
Clothing manufacture occupies a high 
value-added niche in the global textile 
manufacturing chain. Human body type 
classifications also play an even important role 
for garment manufacturing. On the other hand, 
the application domain of data mining has been 
quite broad. However, little research has been 
done in the area of identifying the significant 
rules of human body types, using the fuzzy 
clustering-based data mining approach. This 
study applied fuzzy clustering-based data 
mining procedure to identify the clusters of 
female body types. Body types could be 
accurately classified. Garment manufacturers 
can correctly predict numbers of items and ratio 
of sizes to be produced, resulting in accurate 
inventory control and production planning 
according the newly sizing systems.  
The results of this study can provide an 
effective manufacturing information for garment 
production and differentiating marketing. This 
will generate unique values for stakeholders 
resulting from uplifting customer satisfaction, 
reducing operations cost, and enhancing 
competitiveness, through effective cooperation 
and collaboration of garment production and 
differentiating marketing. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
附錄六 
