  
 
 
2 
2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
含奈米粒子之金屬微元件的製程及機械特性研究 
 
計劃編號 : NSC 94-2212-E009-016 
.執行期間 : 94年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
計劃主持人 : 徐文祥    國立交通大學機械系教授 
計畫參與人員： 蔡梨暖、李毅家、黃家聖 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫重點在探討含奈米鑽石粒子之鎳金屬微結構之材料性質變化及相關應用。在製程上
是藉由低溫、低應力之電鍍製程並於鍍液中添加奈米鑽石粒子(直徑 < 0.5 µm)，我們發現
此奈米複材會隨添加鑽石奈米粒子濃度增加而提升硬度及楊式係數，最特別的是還可提升
熱膨脹係數。因此我們以此奈米複材製作電熱式微致動器及梳狀共振器。 
在電熱式微致動器部份，鑽石-鎳奈米複合材料減少了元件達相同輸出位移所需得輸入功
率，並提供優於純鎳金屬元件的穩定性。實驗結果顯示， 3µm 的位移輸出下，鑽石-鎳奈
米複合材料降低了純鎳電熱式微致動器 73%的功率輸入；可回復之變形量由 1.8µm 提升至
3µm，經過 100 次的測試，元件仍可恢復至原始位置。在梳狀共振器的部份，鑽石-鎳奈米
複合材料的高楊氏係數使得共振器的共振頻率上升。以含 2g/L 奈米鑽石粒子之電鍍液製作
之梳狀致動器，經頻譜分析後發現，共振頻率提升了 11.4%。 
Abstract 
In this study, a low-temperature stress-free electrolytic nickel (EL) deposition process with added 
dispersed diamond nanoparticles (diameter < 0.5 µm) is developed.  It is found that mechanical properties, 
such as hardness, Young’s modulus, and coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE), will be enhanced with 
the concentration of nano diamond particles.   To demonstration the applications of this Ni-diamond 
nanocomposite, electro-thermal microactuators and microresonators are fabricated.  For electro-thermal 
microactuators, device characterization reveals dramatic performance improvements, including a reduction 
in the input power requirement and enhancement on operation reliability.  In comparison with the 
microactuator made of pure nickel, the nanocomposite one can save about 73% the power for a 3 µm 
output displacement and have a longer reversible displacement range, which is prolonged from 1.8 µm to 
more than 3 µm.  Furthermore, the nanocomposite device exhibits no performance degradation after more 
than 100 testing cycles in the reversible regime.  For the microresonator in comb structure, Ni-diamond 
nanocomposite is helpful in enhancing the resonant frequency because of the high Young’s modulus of Ni-
diamond nanocomposite.  With 2g/L nanodiamond in the electrolytic nickel solution, an 11.4% 
improvement on the resonant frequency is measured from the frequency response analysis. 
Introduction 
Metal-based micromachining technologies have attracted lots of attentions recently due to their superior 
material properities in certain applications, such as RF components and electro-thermal microactuators.  
For electro-thermal microactuators, lots of operating principles have been proposed, some of them used 
  
 
 
4 
4 
 
Figure 1 Fabrication process flow of cantilevers 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Hardness and E/ ρ ratio of the EL films plated with various nano-diamond concentrations. 
 
  
 
 
6 
6 
 
Figure 4 SEM photograph of the fabricated electrothermal microactuator using Ni-diamond nanocomposite plated with the concentration of 2 g/L 
nano-diamonds. 
 
 
Figure 5 Input power versus displacement of the microactuators made of the nanocomposites plated with different nano-diamond concentrations. 
 
Resonator 
The three-mask fabrication process, including deposition of the pad layer, the sacrificial layer, and structure mold are 
proposed to fabrication comb drive. By controlling electroplating parameters which include current density at  1.2 
  
 
 
8 
8 
Controlling the electroplating conditions under 1.2mA/cm
2
 and 35 , it is possible to get the structure with no℃ -bending 
for pure nickel and nickel-diamond nanocomposite comb drive. By the test, it is found that there is an 11.4% 
improvement in resonant frequency. 
Reference 
[1] Linder, L. Paratte, M. A. Gretillat, V. P. Jaeckin and de N. F. Rooij, "Surface Micromachining", J. Micromech. 
Microeng., vol. 2, pp. 122-132, 1992. 
[2] M. E. McNie, R. R. Davies, N. Price, D. O. King, and K. M. Brunson, "Advanced micromechanical prototyping in 
polysilicon and SOI", IEEE, 2000. 
[3] Hsu, C. and Hsu, W., "Electrothermally-driven long stretch micro drive with monolithic cascaded actuation units in 
compact arrangement", Transducers'03, Boston, USA, pp. 8-12, 2003. 
[4] H. Guckel, J. Klein, T. Christenson, K. Skrobis, M. Landon, and E. G. Lovell, "Thermo-Magnetic Metal Flexure 
Actuators Technical Digest", IEEE Solid State Sensor and Actuator Workshop, pp. 73-75, 1992. 
[5] H. C. Nathanson, R. A. Wickstrom, "A Resonant-Gate Silicon Surface Transistor With High-Q Band-Pass 
Properties", App. Phys. Letters, vol. 7, No. 4, pp. 84-86, 15 Aug. 1965. 
[6] Long Que, Lisa Otradovec, Andrew D.Oliver , and Yogesh B.Gianchandani, "Pulse and DC Operation Lifetimes of 
Bent-Beam Electrothermal Actuators",. The 14th IEEE International Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical 
Systems, pp. 570-573, Jan 2001. 
[7] L. Que, Park, J. S., and Gianchandani, Y. B., "Bent-beam electrothermal actuators—-part 1: single beam and 
cascaded devices", J. Microelectromechanical systems, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 247-254, 2001. 
[8] K. S. Teh, Y. T. Cheng, and C. Sambucetti, "Selective Plating of Nickel Composite Films For MEMS 
Applications",  Proc.15th Annual Int. Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical System, Las Vegas, NV, USA, pp. 
384-387, 2002. 
[9] K. S. Teh, Y. T. Cheng, and L. W. Lin, "Nickel Nano-Composite Film For MEMS Applications", The 12th 
International Conference on Solid State Sensors, Actuators and Microsystems, Boston, pp. 1534-1537, 2003. 
[10] J. J. Yao, "RF MEMS From A Device Perspective", J. Micromech. Microeng., vol. 10, pp. R9-38, 2000. 
[11] G. D. J. Su, MEMS High-Quality Micromirrors For Optical Interconnect and Optical Pick-Up Heads, PhD Thesis, 
UCLA, CA, USA, 2001. 
[12] C. S. Pan and Wen Syang Hsu, "An Electro-thermally and Laterally Driven Polysilicon Microactuator", J. 
Micromech. and Microeng., vol. 7, pp. 7-13, 1997. 
[13] S. Timoshenko, D. H. Young, W. Weaver, Jr., Vibration Problems in Engineering, 4th Ed. New York: John 
Wiley and Sons, 1974. 
[14] W. Riethmuller, W. Benecke, "Thermally Excited Silicon Microactuator", IEEE Trans. Electro Device, vol. 35, 
pp. 758-763, 1988. 
[15] J. H. Comtois, V. M. Bright, "Surface Micromachined Polysilicon Thermal Actuator Arrays and Applications", 
Technical Digest of the Solid-State Sensor and Actuator Workshop, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, pp. 174-
177, 1996. 
[16] Holman, J. P., Heat Transfer, 6th
 
Ed., New York: McGraw-Hill, 1989. 
[17] C. S. Pan and Wen Syang Hsu, "A Microstructure for in situ Determination of Residual Strain ", J. 
Microelectromechanical system, vol. 8, pp. 200-207, 1999. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
10 
10 
  由會議討論可發現微機電系統的研究趨勢，在尺度上，正逐步由微
米朝向奈米推進；在應用領域上，由傳統工程拓展至分子生物科學。 
 
二、參加會議經過 
  此會議在Singapore西部的Marina Mandarin飯店舉行，由當地機場至
會場約需半小時車程，往返之間交通方便，可搭乘交通車或捷運。主要與
會者多半為亞太地區國家，根據會議統計總投稿數571篇論文中，亞太地
區佔536篇，歐洲24篇，美洲11篇，而台灣以137篇位居投稿數榜首。 
本實驗室在此會議共發表五篇論文，本人所報告的論文題目是
Performance Enhancement of Comb Drive Actuator Utilizing Electroplated 
Nickel-Diamond Nanocomposite，投於Materials and Device Characterization
的session中，報告之內容主要在於陳述以電鍍製作金屬微結構時，加入鑽
石奈米粒子，發現材料性質的變化，利用其中楊氏係數的提升，將之應用
於共振器(梳狀致動器)製作，並使其共振頻率提升。 
此次投稿論文報告張貼時間為27日，過程中須由主講者於張貼之海報
旁，並作解說，透過直接面對面的問答，促進彼此之間研究的交流，並且
了解在不同國家，不同學校之間，對於微奈米機所著重的方向，以及研究
的成果。 
除了投稿論文報告外，主辦單位邀請了在微機電領域中著名的學者作
Plenary Talk，作為每天會議的開場，並於會議中穿差受邀請教授之專題
演說。除此之外，在報到當天晚上(25日)以及會議開始第二天(27日)晚上
各有Welcome Reception和Dinner Banquet的活動。 
 
三、與會心得 
藉由參與此次會議，了解目前在亞太地區各國發展微機電領域的主
流。因應了會議名稱，研究的尺度，由微米朝向奈米推進，所謂朝向奈
米尺度並非只是單純將元件製作至奈米等級，而是研究目前在人力所及
之下，一些奈米尺度的因子對於元件造成的影響，例如奈米粉末對於材
料性質的改變。 
各門學科技術，除了學術上的研究外，還必須在產業界能有所應用，
奈微米機電技術也是如此。在奈微米機電技術應用中，最著名的當是加
  
 
 
12 
12 
PERFORMANCE ENHANCEMENT OF COMB DRIVE ACTUATORS UTILIZING 
ELECTROPLATED OF NICKEL-DIAMOND NANOCOMPOSITE 
YI-CHIA LEE1, LI-NUAN TSAI1, YU-TING CHENG2 AND WENSYANG HSU1 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
2Department of Electronics Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
The comb drive is demonstrated by nickel electroplating.  The nano diamond particles with particle size (diameter) less 
than 500nm are added into the electroplating solution. By pumping during electroplating, the diamond nanoparticles can 
be successfully dispersed in the electroplating nickel layers.  By the experiment, electroplating is easy to cause bending 
comb structure.  This problem can be solved by tuning the parameters of electroplating conditions which include current 
density and operation temperature.  Under 1.2mA/cm2 and 35℃electroplating conditions, it is possible to get the 
structure with no-bending for pure nickel and nickel-diamond nanocomposite comb drive.  It gets 11.4% increase for the 
first mode resonant frequency. 
  
1. Introduction 
For MEMS application, metal has certain advantages 
over polysilicon, such as high deposition rate, easy 
stress control, low deposition temperature, and low 
resistivity.  Also by choosing the suitable fabrication 
process, it is well suited for post processing on 
preprocessed CMOS wafers. 
For further improvement metal properties, Teh et al 
used the ceramic particles as the additive to electroplate 
the nickel ceramic composite film in 2002 [2]. It was 
found that composite film significantly reduced the 
mismatch of thermal expansion between nickel and 
silicon.  Fortunately, the Young’s modulus, Berkovich 
hardness, and electrical resistivity were maintained. 
After nickel ceramic composite film, Teh et al used 
diamond and cordierite as the additive [3]. The nickel 
cordierite microresonator was residual stress free 
because of the better thermal compatibility with silicon. 
By adding various concentration of diamond particles, it 
was found that higher diamond concentration obtained 
the film with more compressively stress. 
In 2003, Tsai et al followed Teh’s research and used 
nickel-diamond composite as the material of electro-
thermal microactuators by electroplating [4].  The E/ρ 
ratio of microactuators could be enhanced 1.29 times 
with diamond concentration of 2 g/L.  Comparing to 
device made of electroplated nickel, the electro-thermal 
microactuators with diamond concentration of 2 g/L 
could reduce 73% power requirement for 3µm output 
displacement. 
According to the phenomenon in pervious researches, 
the nano diamond particles can increase the E/ρ ratio of 
nickel.  This property is suitable for resonator made by 
nickel.  Its own resonant frequency can be improved by 
the nano diamond particles.  Here, comb drive is used as 
the tested device and demonstrating that nano diamond 
particles can improve the resonant frequency of comb 
drive made by electroplated nickel.  Moreover, it must 
be concerned that diamond particles cause the 
compressively stress of nickel film. Therefore, a stress 
free electroplating process is needed to obtain no-
bending comb structure.  
2. Fabrication 
In the previous test by our group [4], it was found that 
the E/ρ ratio and hardness increased with the 
concentration of nano diamond particles as shown in 
Figure 1.  The film with 2 g/L nano diamond particles 
has about 1.29 times higher E/ρ ratio than the one made 
of pure nickel.  These properties are helpful to calculate 
the resonant mode of comb drive.  By using FEM 
software, the resonant frequency can be computed easily. 
2.1. Dimension and Simulation  
The dimensions of comb drive are decided according to 
the location of the resonant frequency. By using Ansys, 
the resonant frequency of comb drive is computed easily.  
The material properties utilized in the simulation follow 
the results of previous test mentioned before.  The 
model of comb drive by Ansys is shown in Figure 2.  
  
 
3 
3 
2.3. Stress Control 
There are many factors need to be controlled, the 
quantities of the compositions and pH level of the 
solution, current density, temperature, and ventilated 
system etc.  In order to simplify the stress problem, only 
the current density and temperature are considered as 
the control variables. 
The standard nickel electroplating process is operated 
at 50 ℃.  The deposition rate increases with the current 
density.  Under 50 ℃ and 10 mA/cm2, it is found that 
the spring of comb drive bends downward, as shown in 
Figure 4(a).  According to the experimental results, it 
seems helpful to reduce the stress and get flatter 
structure by reducing the current density.  Under the 
current density less than 1 mA/cm
2
, the deposition rate 
is too slow.  It makes the fabrication process 
inefficiently. So it is necessary to find another way to 
solve the stress problem. 
Under operation temperature test, it is found that 
reducing the operation temperature is also helpful to 
solve the stress problem.  Maintaining the current 
density at 1.2 mA/cm
2
 and reducing operation 
temperature, it is found that comb drive can be free 
standing with electroplating temperature at 35 ℃.  The 
free standing comb drive is shown in Figure 4(b). 
 
 
(a)       
 
                                                      (b) 
Figure 4.  (a) comb drive ade by original process (50 ℃  and 10 
mA/cm2). (b) no-bending comb drive made by improved process (35 
℃ and 1.2 mA/cm2). 
3. Measurements 
The resonant frequency is measured by MEMS Motion 
Analyzer.  This instrument uses both brightfield and 
interference based illumination modes combined with 
sophisticated machine vision algorithms to quantify 
target motions.   
Under 50V AC with 50V DC bias and the frequency 
from 5 kHz to 15 kHz, there is a peak for nickel and 
nickel-diamond comb drive, individually.  The results of 
measurement are shown in Figure 5.  The first mode of 
pure nickel comb drive with 300 µm spring length 
occurs at 8.034 kHz.  The nickel-diamond one resonates 
at 8.949 kHz.  There is an 11.4% improvement in 
resonant frequency. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 5.  Measured frequency response of comb drive made by (a) 
pure nickel (resonant frequency=8.034 kHz); (b) nickel diamond 
(resonant frequency=8.949 kHz). 
 
4. Discussion 
Controlling the electroplating conditions under 
1.2mA/cm
2
 and 35℃, it is possible to get the structure 
