 2 
 
2. Background and features 
According to the current studies, there are three 
factors responsible for the misalignment of the patella:4  
a). Insufficient VMO strength: insufficient VMO 
strength reduces the force that holds the patella in the 
trochlear groove, thereby dislocating it laterally. 
b). Excessive ITB tension: the tensional ITB outside 
the knee joint increases the outward pulling force in the 
patella, which also dislocates the patella laterally.  
c). Anatomical/biomechanical anomalies of the 
lower limb: Apparent anatomical/biomechanical 
anomalies such as valgus, pronated foot, and knee 
valgus are known to cause the misalignment of the 
patella; moreover, recent studies have also gradually 
attributed the two abovementioned factors to 
anatomical/biomechanical problems.  
Previously, it was widely believed that the 
insufficient VMO strength was attributed to the atrophy 
or the arrested development of the VMO and that the 
VMO muscles did not have sufficient strength to 
prevent the VL and the ITB from dislocating the patella 
laterally; therefore, the misalignment of the patella 
eventually caused pain to the patient. However, we 
gradually found that the time taken for the contraction 
of the VMO muscles of PFPS patients was longer than 
that taken for the contraction of the VL muscles of these 
patients under motion. Figs. 2 and 3 show contraction of 
the VMO and the VL muscles of PFPS patients when 
ascending stairs, respectively. In these figures, A is the 
control group, and B is the experimental group. The 
result indicates that in the case of normal people, the 
time taken for the contraction of both the VMO and the 
VL muscles when ascending and descending stairs was 
almost the same, whereas in the case of PFPS patients, 
the time taken for the initial contraction of the VMO 
muscles was longer than that taken for the initial 
contraction of the VL muscles. 
 
Fig.2 Contraction times of VMO and VL when 
ascending stairs. Subjects in group A are healthy 
and those in group B suffer from PFPS. 
 
Fig.3 Contraction times of VMO and VL when 
descending stairs. Subjects in group A are 
healthy and those in group B suffer from PFPS. 
Fig.4 illustrates a graph showing the direction in 
which the quadriceps femoris muscles extend when 
stretching a leg. A decrease in the function of the VMO 
causes the quadriceps femoris muscles to lose their 
coordination function, which in turn causes the VL to 
contract excessively; this phenomenon eventually 
dislocates the patella laterally. This misalignment of the 
patella causes an increase in the pressure on the articular 
surface, damaging the joint and producing pain and 
swelling and inhibiting muscular functions. This 
phenomenon is characterized by a continuous loop; 
therefore, it is critical to understand how the function of 
the VMO can be improved or enhanced for the 
 4 
 
and VMO) measurement unit, analog-to-digital 
converter (ADC or A/D), neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation (NMES) units, footswitch triggered signal 
circuit, connection unit, and keyboard of the proposed 
system need to be constructed.  
In physiological signals, when muscle fibers 
contract, several milivolt-magnitude electric currents are 
generated. The magnitude of these currents varies with 
the contraction strengths of different muscle cells. The 
reason for the generation of these electric currents is 
that when muscles contract, Na+ and K+ ions move in 
and out of the muscle fiber cells, generating action 
potential. The signal measured is nothing but the voltage 
difference between the electrodes on both sides, and it is 
known as the EMG signal.  
The instrumentation amplifier, on the other hand, is 
often used to amplify the voltage difference between the 
electrodes on both sides; therefore, we choose a highly 
practical INA128 instrumentation amplifier IC for the 
measurement circuit of the EMGs of the VMO and the 
VL. This amplifier IC offers the following advantages: 
(1) it exhibits a minimum common-mode rejection ratio 
(CMRR) of 120, indicating that it has a good ant-noise 
function, and (2) a drivable voltage of 2.25V. Further, 
the instrumentation amplifier comprises multiple 
operational amplifiers. This amplifier is very suitable 
for designing medical devices owing to the fact that its 
internal structure can maintain certain amplifying 
qualities despite the presence of multiple operational 
amplifiers. 
Because the EMG signal is weak and prone to 
interference, it has to pass through the preamplifier, the 
filter, and the post-amplifier, and it has to be converted 
by the A/D unit from a physical signal to a digital signal 
before being calculated and recorded by the processor. 
In the case of the system design, unnecessary 
interference sources are eliminated, and the existence of 
the filter is necessary. For the design of the filter, the 
effective frequency range of the VMO and the VL must 
be considered; owing to this design consideration, the 
filter shows high tunability and its filtering frequency 
and range can be adjusted whenever desired.  
Next, it is found that in order to effectively use 
electrode patches that are in direct contact with the body 
surface, such as patches that collect ECG signals, the 
contact of the electrodes and their match with the 
impedances of the back-end amplifiers need to be 
considered. Moreover, for accurately measuring the 
EMG signals, the electrode patches must be adhered 
along a direction that is parallel to the direction of the 
muscle fibers, and various procedures involving 
exfoliation, such as shaving of body hair and cleaning 
the skin surface with alcohol swabs, should be carried 
out before adhering the electrode patches to the surface 
of the skin. It should be noted that the result of the EMG 
measurement depends on the position at which the 
electrode patches are adhered. In other words, trends in 
the EMG signals with respect to time and frequency 
vary on the basis of the position of the electrode patches. 
A word of caution here is that inappropriate patch 
positions will lead to the loss of important information 
in the measurement process.  
In the case of the electrical stimulation circuit, the 
strength and frequency of the electrical stimulation and 
the output pulse width of the circuit system designed in 
this study (Fig.6) can be adjusted via a computer or 
manually, to generate a sequence of voltages or current 
pulses that excite nerve or muscle tissues, thus to 
achieve the purposes of diagnosis, treatment and 
inducing.  
 
Fig.6 Electrical stimulation circuit. 
In the experiment performed in this study, the 
previously developed portable electronic system for 
providing pain relief to PFPS patients was used; further, 
 6 
 
Fig.10 Output waveform of electrical stimulation 
circuit. 
The primary objective of adjusting the pulse 
frequency is to see whether the muscles exhibit tetanic 
contraction, yielding a smooth and sustained contraction 
effect. In general, a stimulation frequency of 100 Hz is 
widely adopted. Because the impedance of the human 
body varies with external environmental factors, it is 
observed that a variation in the current strength within 
the range tolerable by the PFPS patient leads to an 
apparent contraction of the muscles of the patient, 
which is a cause for concern. In the experiment 
performed in this study, the width of the pulses is set at 
200 μs, the electrical stimulation frequency is set at 100 
Hz, and the current strength is set at 30 mA. Under 
these conditions, contraction of the VMO can be 
achieved. Owing to the difference in the manner in 
which each person adapts to electrical stimulation, the 
parameters of electrical stimulation are adjusted on the 
basis of different personal conditions for future 
treatments.  
Fig.11 shows the relativity diagram of the 
footswitch and the EMGs of the VL and the VMO. The 
system first detects the triggering of the footswitch 
(arrow ), and when the VL signal is generated (arrow ①
), the VMO is immediately subjected to the electrical ②
stimulation in order to induce its early contraction. The 
patella is pulled back by the VL and the VMO to its 
original position, indicating the achievement of the final 
equilibrium state.  
 
Fig.11 Relativity between the footswitch and the EMG 
signal. 
The present treatment methods for patients with 
insufficient VMO muscle strength or delayed VMO 
muscular response, which causes patellar pain, include 
the electrical stimulation of the quadriceps femoris 
muscles and exercises involving leg flexion, leg stretch, 
leg extension, and leg curl; these treatment methods 
help in increasing the VMO muscle strength and 
improving the muscle contraction time. In the 
experiment performed in this study, PFPS patients are 
subjected to the VMO electrical stimulation treatment 
during a stair-stepping routine. This treatment ensures 
that the VL and the VMO contract synchronously; it 
also induces the VMO contraction time with precision. 
In light of these advantages, it can be said that the 
electrical stimulation treatment will substantially benefit 
PFPS patients in terms of reducing the pain they suffer 
from.  
Acknowledgment 
This work was supported by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan. under contract No. NSC- 
NSC-99-2221-E-327-008. 
References 
[1] Holmes SW and Clancy WG, “Clinical 
classification of patellofemoral pain and 
dysfunction,” J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. vol. 28, 
pp. 299-306 , 1998. 
[2] Insall J, “Current concepts review: patellar pain,” 
J Bone Joint Surg Am, vol. 64, pp. 147-52 , 1982. 
[3] Witvrouw E, Sneyers C, Lysens R, Victor J and 
Bellemans M, “Reflex response times of vastus 
medialis oblique and vastus lateralis in normal 
subjects with patellofemoral pain syndrome,” J 
Orthop Sports Phys Ther, vol. 24, pp. 160-165, 
1996. 
[4] Karst GM, Willett GM, “Onset timing of 
electromyographic activity in the vastus medialis 
oblique and vastus lateralis muscles in subjects 
with and without patellofemoral pain syndrome,” 
Phys Ther, vol. 75, pp. 813-23, 1995. 
 國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期： 100  年 10 月 11 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：對於髕骨疼痛症候群患者之肌電訊號分析與復健方法
之可行性評估研究 
計畫主持人：張簡嘉壬         
計畫編號：NSC-99-2221-E-327-008            
領域： 醫學工程 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）對於髕骨疼痛症候群患者之肌電訊號分析與復健方法之可行性評估研
究 
（英文）Feasibility study on the Electromyogram analysis and 
rehabilitation for patients suffering atellofemoral pain syndrome 
成果歸屬機構 國科會 發明人 (創作人) 張簡嘉壬、徐阿田 
技術說明 
（中文） 
本技術主要目的是針對髕骨疼痛症候群 ( Patellofemoral pain
syndrome, PFPS)患者之肌電訊號（Electromyogram, EMG）進行分析，以
及評估利用電刺激 (Stimulator)對PFPS患者中因為股內斜肌 (Vastus
medialis obliquus, VMO)與股外側肌(Vastus lateralis, VL)之間的肌電訊號
異常是否具有改善或復健之效果。 對於PFPS病患之VMO收縮的時間相
對於VL慢，或者VMO肌電訊號相對於VL較弱時，使得股四頭肌群之間
喪失協調性將髕骨外拉，造成關節面的承受壓力增大，而產生之疼痛等
問題。本技術可即時讀取VMO及VL之EMG電訊號之順序與訊號強度，
立即在適當時間對VMO及VL進行電刺激，輔助VMO肌肉收縮，進而達
到復健之效果。 
（200-500 字） 
附件三 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                日期： 100 年 5 月 1 日 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議是在新加坡舉辦的2011 3rd International Conference on Signal Acquisition and 
Processing (ICSAP 2011) 國際研討會。本次會議的時間為2011 年2月26日至2月28 日，內容包含
五個大主題，分別如下： 
1. Biomedical, Bioinformatics 
2. Analog and Mixed Signal Processing 
3. Remote Sensing 
4. Positioning  
5. Embedded Systems 
本次國際會議提供了一個學術知識交流平台，與會的學者互相交換最新的研究成果，並控
制工業等相關科技在未來的研究方向與趨勢。整體而言，會議所涵蓋的範圍包含了各類訊號處
理、語音編解碼技術、醫療相關技術與應用、嵌入式系統的應用與開發、定位系統、遙控感測
的應用…等等，參與的學者橫跨電力、電子、物理、化學、生醫、熱傳、流力、結構等領域之
先進，大家齊聚一堂共同討論工業等相關科技在各種不同領域的最新研究成果與應用，對於本
計畫編號 NSC-99-2221-E-327-008 
計畫名稱 對於髕骨疼痛症候群患者之肌電訊號分析與復健方法之可行性評估研究 
出國人員
姓名 張簡嘉壬 
服務
機構
及職
稱 
國立高雄第一科技大學電子工程系-
助理教授 
會議時間 
100 年 2 月 26 日 
至 
100 年 2 月 28 日 
會議
地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 2011 3rd International Conference on Signal Acquisition and Processing (ICSAP 
2011) 
發表論文
題目 
A handheld electronic patient record using a new UML component-based 
architecture 
  
利
會
增
力
有
斷
 
三、結論
本次能
參加本次
除了可以
加台灣在
。整體而
了更深的
的自我要
 
 
順利參與會
新加坡舉辦
增進對於相
世界上的研
言，參與本
研究體認
求，這是在
議在此特
的ICSAP
關領域研
究能見度
次國際會
，想要在國
國內研討
本人
別感謝國科
 2011國際
究趨勢的了
，對於我國
議對我而言
際會議中獲
會所難以感
與會報告相
 
會與高科
研討會。I
解之外，
當前所面
是個重要
得掌聲、
受到的。
片 
大電子系
CSAP技術
更可以與
臨的外交
的經驗，
贏得尊敬
 
提供經費上
年會今年已
外國的專家
困境也算是
不僅讓我不
，只有秉持
的補助，
舉辦第三
學者溝通
研究學者
斷的增加
精益求精
使得我能順
年，參與年
，同時也可
的的一份心
國際觀，也
的精神，不
2011 3rd International Conference on Signal Acquisition and Processing 
(ICSAP 2011) 
 
- 2 - 
The ICSAP 2011 will check the fo rmat of all the reg istered papers first, so the authors don’t need to upload the paper to 
the IEEE. After the registration, we will send all qualified papers to the IEEE for publishing directly.  
If the above requirements are met by the set deadlines, the paper will be included in ICSAP 2011 conference 
proceeding published by IEEE, and will be listed in IEEE Xplore and indexed by both EI (Compendex) and IS I 
Proceeding (IS TP).  
Maybe some unforeseeable events could prevent a few authors attend ing the event to present their papers, so if you and 
your co-author(s) could not attend ICSAP 2011 to present your paper for some reasons, please inform us. And we will 
send you, the official receipt of reg istration fee and proceedings, after ICSAP 2011 free o f charge.  
Please strictly adhere to the format specified in the conference template while preparing your final paper. If you have 
any problem in preparing the final paper, p lease feel free to contact us via icsap@vip.163.com .For the most updated 
informat ion on the conference, please check the conference website at http://www.icsap.org/ .The Conference 
Program will be availab le at the website in the late January, 2011. 
Finally, we would like to further extend our congratulations to you and we are looking forward to meeting you in  
Singapore! 
Yours sincerely, 
 
The ICSAP 2011 Organizing Committees 
http://www.icsap.org/  
Singapore 
hence, this thesis does not provide the object diagrams for 
each object involved. 
Sequence diagram describes the interactions among 
objects. It focuses on the sequence of the message, i.e. when 
and how the message is transmitted and received for certain 
element. 
Collaboration diagram describes how a group of objects 
interact with each other. And the interaction itself is to 
complete certain designated functionality and the 
communications in addition to transmissions between 
elements. 
The above four UML diagrams are the most frequently 
used within UML. And through these four diagrams, it can 
describe many designs and cases; therefore, this thesis would 
also employ these four diagrams to express the ideas for 
platform design as well. 
II. METHODOLOGY 
Design the outer appearances for portable electronic 
patient record platform (Fig. 1). 
 
   Fig. 1.  Portable Electronic Patient Record Platform. 
The following shall separately describe and introduce the 
device operation flow in the UML environment 
A.  Doctor’s ID authentication flow 
Since the hospital must maintain airtight protection for 
patient medical records, hence, each hospital nowadays has a 
set of identification and authentication procedure designated 
to doctor while using computer to review patient’s condition. 
And this platform also provides such functionality and it 
must have the doctor authentication prior allowing the use of 
this platform. The following describes the ID authentication 
flow through UML approach：From Fig. 2, it can be known 
that while undergoing the doctor ID authentication process, 
the platform would initiate devices that include OS, internet 
access, doctor ID device, fingerprint identification machine 
as well as the microprocessor to process the fingerprint 
identification. And through the category diagram expression, 
it allows the system developer to understand the required 
devices as well as connectivity relevancies with ease 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fig. 2.  Doctor's ID Class Diagram. 
From the state diagram of OS (Fig. 3), it expresses that 
once the OS receives the doctor ID insertion signal, it would 
wait for the result of fingerprint comparison. If the 
comparison is valid, then it proceeds to the authentication 
through connection with the hospital server. If all the 
authentications are approved, then the user is granted with 
full privileges. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fig. 3.  Doctor’s ID State Diagram. 
From the perspective of sequence diagram (Fig. 4), the 
overall flows and processes can be observed. When doctor 
inserts the ID card, it would generate a signal to OS to notify 
that the doctor IC card has been inserted. Then OS would 
initiate signaling to activate the fingerprint comparison 
device, and at this moment, it would demand the doctor with 
pressing his finger against the machine reader so as to 
acquire the fingerprint information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fig. 4.  Doctor’s ID Sequence Diagram. 
After this information is acquired, then it proceeds to 
comparison and notify the OS with comparison result. If it 
matches, then OS would activate the internet access to 
connect to the hospital server for reconfirmation. If it passes, 
then OS grants all the platform privileges. If not, OS would 
grant only partial privileges. Lastly, the collaboration 
diagram (Fig. 5) fully exemplifies the input and output 
Doctor
 
2011 3rd International Conference on Signal Acquisition and Processing (ICSAP 2011)
V1-299
 items into the record within their own professional domains 
or jurisdictions.  
From the class diagram in Fig. 10, it can be learned that 
there exists a mechanism for specially decrypting as well as 
imposing restriction on read and write privileges so as to 
protect the patient’s IC card without being unlawfully 
written. Its class action has the functionalities of read/write 
IC as well as protective measures of notifying OS to get the 
permission prior granting the privileges for read/write. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fig. 10.  Patient's IC Card Class Diagram. 
Fig. 11  shows the OS state diagram, the initial state is to 
wait for the patient’s IC card insertion. After detecting the IC 
card insertion signal, it generates and transmits the request 
for reading the information from patient’s record. If editing 
the patient’s record is necessary, then it would send the 
request for permission to write. When the permission is 
granted, then the system enters the Edit Mode. After editing 
or finishing off reading, the final state would be fall-back to 
the waiting state for patient’s IC card. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fig. 11.  Patient's IC Card State Diagram 
In the expression aspect of the sequence diagram (Fig. 
12), it signifies that once the patient inserts the IC card, the 
patient’s IC card device would generate signal to notify the 
OS. When OS receives this message, it would generate the 
read signal to Decrypt and Write/Read Limit device to 
determine whether this device is readable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fig. 12.  Patient's IC Card Sequence Diagram. 
After the device decides it is readable, then it would 
generate the Read signal back to OS in addition to sending 
signal to read the internal information of the IC card. When 
Decrypt and Write/Read Limit device receives the 
information from IC card, it directly transmits to OS. And 
this is the fundamental mechanism for reading the patient’s 
IC card. If there is a need to retrieve the patient information 
from the hospital, then OS would send the read request to 
Network to request its server to transmit other patient’s 
information. When Network receives the information, then it 
would relay back to the OS. 
And in the Collaboration diagram, the signals transmitted 
by each element are clearly presented. It is quite evident that 
Decrypt and Write/Read Limit device controls the read/write 
privileges for the IC card (Fig. 13). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Fig. 13.  Patient's IC Card Collaboration Diagram. 
After OS finishes off reading and writing, it transmits the 
signal to Decrypt and Write/Read Limit device. Then 
Decrypt and Write/Read Limit device would respond with 
Allow/Not Allow Read or Allow/Not Allow Write signals 
back to OS. And this portion is essential and also is the core 
for the process in reading patient’s IC card. 
III. DISCUSSION  AND RESULTS 
This paper reports on the new design and development of 
an Electronic Patient Record. In the previous section, each 
functionality and UML modules are described. 
Functionalities within the module are integrated into an 
overall classifications map (Fig. 18). From the diagram, it is 
clearly known for the connectivity relationship between each 
class. R&D designers and maintenance system personnel can 
distinctly control the attributes, actions as well as the 
conditions for each element. From the perspective of the 
UML design for the overall system, it effectively lessens the 
wordings for illustration to prevent the multiple explanations 
for items involved. In addition, it organizes the whole set of 
system through connectivity relationship (e.g. Master/slave, 
dependency relationship) to facilitate the understanding for 
mutual relationships between elements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient
 
2011 3rd International Conference on Signal Acquisition and Processing (ICSAP 2011)
V1-301
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 對於髕骨疼痛症候群患者之肌電訊號分析與復健方法之可行性評估研究
計畫主持人: 張簡嘉壬
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-327-008- 學門領域: 殘障輔具研究
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
目前本技術與醫療儀器設備廠商洽談未來是否量產之可行性 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
