collective innovations； 
O3: To design optimization methods and simulation as 
the decision support tools. 
Research of the 3rd year addresses these questions: 
How can sharing and among participants promote the 
evolution of a network? How could the opinion 
evolution process of exchanging opinions about a 
topic in network forum? How to design a market 
mechanism to solve the collaboration and competition 
of collections of individuals? Our research can be 
divided into two classes and five sub-topics:  
I. Dynamic modeling and analysis of sharing networks 
I.1)Refine the established Social Network Sharing 
Model involving individual behavior and network 
evolution model based on empirical data, and consider 
the impact of human altruism on evolution of network. 
I.2)Establish models for capturing the evolution 
processes of opinion exchange, especially from 
conflict to consensus, such models may form a 
foundation for management； 
II. Design of incentive mechanism and platform for 
Wikinomic innovations  
II.1)Use shortest path solution seeking to design a 
prize competition mechanism that a path solution 
seeker can connect paths from collective path 
solution providers in into a shortest path between 
the desired pair of cities.  
II.2)Design a market framework to centralize trading 
opportunities and close the gap of information 
asymmetry for a short-interval secondary spectrum 
market. A truthful SiSS is designed to incentivize 
seller and buyers to trade and achieve the purpose of 
efficient trading. 
II.3)Design system structure and principle to 
understand the feasibility of implementing an 
internet platform for collaboratively designing fuzzy 
controllers. 
英文關鍵詞： Wikinomics, teaching material sharing, Prize 
Competition, Collective Solution, Shortest Path 
Solution Seeking, Mechanism Design, Network forum, 
conflict, consensus, opinion exchange, community 
1 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
維基式創新與最佳化機制之研究 (3/3) 
Research on Wikinomic Innovation and Optimization Mechanism (3/3) 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-002-138-MY3 
執行期間： 98 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立臺灣大學電機工程學系暨研究所 
 
計畫主持人：張時中教授 
共同主持人：黃亭凱助理教授、劉忠陽助理教授 
計畫參與人員：石雨弘、何任軒、何庭育、邱顯強、施懿瑄、高鈺婷、張如因、
張善傑、陳榮輝、黃嘉緯、黃馨平、詹舜丞、鍾明儒 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  10  月  08  日 
  
3 
 
I.1) Based on empirical data of the SCTNet and 
validation by an agent-based simulation (ABS), 
we continuously and deeply refine the 
established Social Network Sharing Model 
involving Individual  behavior model and 
network evolution model, and consider the 
impact of human altruism on evolution of 
network.  
I.2) Establish models for capturing the evolution 
processes of opinion exchange, especially for the 
process from conflict occurrence to reaching 
consensus or not, such models may form a 
foundation for management and design of a 
network forum with conflict situation; 
II. Design of incentive mechanism and platform 
for Wikinomic innovations  
II.1) We take shortest path solution seeking as 
example to design a prize competition 
mechanism that a path solution seeker can 
further connect paths from collective path 
solution providers in into a shortest path between 
the desired pair of cities.  
II.2) For a short-interval secondary spectrum 
market, we design a market framework to 
centralize trading opportunities and close the gap 
of information asymmetry. Under the market 
framework, a truthful SiSS is designed to 
incentivize seller and buyers to trade and achieve 
the purpose of efficient trading. 
II.3) For collaboratively designing fuzzy 
controllers in internet platform, we design 
system structure, design principle, and web page 
to understand the feasibility of implementing an 
internet platform for collaboratively design. 
 
Keywords: 
Wikinomics, teaching material sharing, Prize 
Competition, Collective Solution, Shortest Path 
Solution Seeking, Mechanism Design, Network 
forum, conflict, consensus, opinion exchange, 
community state, discussion threads dynamic 
model 
 
二、計畫緣由與目的  
With the widespread availability of Web 
2.0 Technology, innovations on the basis of 
global, open and mass collaboration have 
quickly emerged recently. Tapscott and 
Williams, 2006, coined such mechanisms as 
Wikinomics. According to Tapscott, 
Wikinomics evolves on four principles: 
Openness, Peering, Sharing, and Acting 
Globally. An innovation has two important 
ingredients: something new and something better 
than the existing ones in its effect(s). Although 
there have been many exceptional success of 
Wikinomic innovations, e.g., Boeing 787, BMW 
530i, Wikipedia, Linux, and SecondLife, there is 
still lack of basic understanding and systematic 
design methodology for successful Wikinomic 
innovations. This three-year project therefore 
aims at interdisciplinary study of the mechanism 
design for Wikinomic type collective 
innovations, including both ingredients of 
newness and better performance, with 
applications to engineering systems.  There are 
three objectives as follows: 
O1: To define innovation by using specific 
engineering application(s), establish the 
ontology model of domain knowledge, 
define metric(s) of innovation and design 
innovation identification methods based on 
the domain knowledge model;  
O2: To study incentive designs for Wikinomic 
type collective innovations based on 
economic mechanism design theory; 
O3: To design optimization methods, algorithms 
and simulation as the decision support 
tools of mechanism design for Wikinomic 
type collective innovations. 
To achieve our objectives, we consider four 
types of Wikinomic type collective innovation 
systems in the third year of research: teaching 
material sharing networks, a solution seeking 
market for shortest path solution, and opinion 
exchanges in network forum. The first has been 
focused on the network dynamics modeling and 
agent-based simulation. The second has focused 
on incentive mechanism design for innovative 
solution contribution. The third emphasizes on 
dynamic modeling of network discussion threads 
for reflecting community states. The fourth has 
focused on…. 
 
2.1 Teaching Material Sharing Network 
Dynamics 
Sharing teaching material via the Internet 
has been a common practice world-wide; for 
example, MIT OpenCourSeWare [1] in the US 
provides a website for teachers to share their 
resources. The Teachers Social Network [2] 
provides a platform to share not only teaching 
materials, but also teaching experiences. Open 
Educational Resources [3] also provides a 
website for teachers to exchange their teaching 
resources. The teaching material sharing 
network (TMSN) provides a convenient and 
easy way for teachers to interact and to share 
their teaching materials. Through sharing 
teaching materials and experiences on TMSNs, 
teachers can enhance their teaching ability and 
provide high-quality education services to 
children of all ages.  
In Taiwan, teachers in elementary schools 
and junior high schools have to design many of 
their own teaching materials (TM) under the new 
system of nine-year compulsory education. 
Smart Creative Teachers Net (SCTNet) [4] is 
one of the popular networks designed as virtual 
communities that allow teachers to 
5 
 
unused spectrum is allowed for rent in the 
secondary spectrum market. 
  There have been secondary spectrum market 
designs to match spectrum availability in short 
time intervals with fluctuating demands. In this 
paper, the market is called short-interval 
secondary spectrum (SiSS) market. The players 
in the SiSS market are mobile network operators 
(MNO) and mobile virtual network operators 
(MVNO). A MNO is a typical wireless service 
provider (WSP) who provides mobile and 
internet access service to subscribers by MNO’s 
own spectrum resource and network 
infrastructure. Besides, MNO would 
dynamically rent unused spectrum out to 
MVNOs for earning additional revenue. A 
MVNO is also a WSP but without spectrum 
license. A MVNO provides customer care and 
value-added service to subscribers through 
dynamically renting spectrum usage from MNO. 
  Compared with general secondary spectrum 
markets, the design of the SiSS market 
emphasizes on efficient trading. Research 
challenges in a SiSS market are as follows: 
 
A. How to design a feasible SiSS market 
framework to realize spectrum trading on a 
short-interval basis? 
Previous studies such as [20] and [22] have 
investigated the feasibility, benefit and cost of 
the secondary spectrum market. However, there 
has not been much short-interval spectrum 
trading because of the short spectrum availability, 
uncertain trading opportunity and lack of 
efficient trading operations. For availability of 
tens of minutes to hours, spending a long time 
on trading opportunity search, information 
exchange and negotiation is not feasible for both 
MNOs and MVNOs. 
 
B. How to design a trading mechanism which 
has incentives for MNOs and MVNOs to 
trade spectrum on a short-interval basis? 
  To substantiate the trading framework, there 
need designs of an efficient trading protocol as 
well as incentives for MNO and MVNOs to 
participate in trading so that the value of 
available spectrum is well exploited. 
 
2.5 Control Rules Selection for Fuzzy Controllers 
Collaboratively Designed via the Internet Platform 
The internet platform whose environment is 
shown in Fig 5.1 for collaboratively designing 
fuzzy controllers to be discussed in this thesis 
has similar components and structure to the 
online encyclopedia “Wikipedia”.  The 
construction of such a platform is considered 
from three different perspectives: system 
structure, design principle, and web page.  To 
understand the feasibility of implementing such 
a platform, similarities to and differences from 
the “Wikipedia” are investigated first. It is 
assumed that in response to the control problems 
uploaded, fuzzy control rules are sought for a 
given fuzzy controller framework, and the 
platform needs to accomplish the following 
tasks. 
i. To judge if the performance is better or worse 
when an existing rule is substituted by a new 
control rule.  Fuzzy controllers are frequently 
adopted for plants without explicit mathematical 
model, so it is challenging to judge if control 
rules would enhance the performance before 
new control rules are replaced into the original 
rule base. 
ii.To select control rules to compose a new fuzzy 
rule base with better performance than that of 
the original fuzzy controller. 
 
三、研究方法  
3.1 Modeling of Teaching Material Sharing 
Network Dynamics   
To overcome the above challenges, we 
proposed an approach framework. We model 
individual behavior as probabilities to capture 
the individual differences (C1). Bass diffusion 
model is adopted to model how the probabilities 
are affected by network states in three phases of 
slow start, fast growth, and saturation (C2). A 
QBNLS method is used to estimate the Bass 
model parameters of behavior probabilities from 
limited empirical data (C3). It is a foundation for 
network managers to make decisions to sustain 
the TMSN.  
The schematic diagram of our approach is 
depicted in Figure 1.2. It consists of 4 parts: (i) A 
QBNLS method to estimate the Bass curve 
parameter from limited empirical data; (ii) 
Bass-diffusion-model embedded probabilistic 
member behaviors modeling; (iii) Difference Eq. 
to model the network dynamics; and (iv) 
Agent-based simulation for validation. 
 
3.1.1 Calculating Member Behavior 
Probabilities from Empirical Data 
In the TMS network, the influences of 
factors such as altruism to behavior probabilities 
may not be directly observable from empirical 
data of network. We adopt Bass curve [5, 6] to 
model the influence of key factors to probability 
as shown in Figure 1.3. The evolution of 
behavior probabilities in the TMS system with 
respect to time is a Bass curve which has three 
properties: (i) Slow start (ii) Fast growth (iii) 
Saturation. 
 
3.1.2 Evolution of Networking States 
Modeling  
The network dynamics of the TMSN is 
depicted in Figure 1.4; the circles represent the 
7 
 
detriment of their own interests at times. we 
conclude that the altruism of teacher is pure 
altruism. 
 
3.2 Dynamic Modeling of Network Discussion 
Threads for Reflecting Community States 
To address the questions addressed in 
session 2.3, we propose three innovative 
modeling approaches as follow: 
 
3.2.1 Article Format Model (AFM) 
All articles in a discussion thread can be 
described by five attributes including title, serial 
number, author, target, verbal behavior, indicated 
in Figure 3.1 and 3.2. Each attribute has its own 
values. The attribute of verbal behavior refers to 
the categories of discourse analysis systemized 
by [15]. We adopt the encoding results of 
“content analysis” in [15], to represent verbal 
behavior(s) an article posses. Every AFM form 
the basis of analyzing the relation between 
articles in a discussion threads. 
 
3.2.2 Two Article Relation Model (TARM) 
This model is a function, the domain of the 
function is two AFMs, and the range space is a 
relation set including elements of conflict, 
neutrality, alliance and indirect relations, 
indicated in Figure 3.3. The function maps 
respective attribute values of two AFMs to a 
specific element of the relation set, and then the 
specific element become the relation between 
those two articles.  
 
3.2.3 Community State Identification Model 
(CSIM) & Discussion Threads Dynamic 
Model (DTDM) 
CSIM is established based on AFM and 
TARM. It uses mathematical descriptions such 
as “set” and “logic” to specify how a given 
segment of “n adjacent articles” is to be mapped 
to a specific community state. Community states 
include incubation, dissension, chaos and 
consensus. Apply CSIM to analyzing evolution 
of community state along with the sequence of 
articles. Pearson correlation coefficient is then 
used as statistical indicator to analyze state 
correlations. We find from empirical data 
analysis that Markov chain can be used as a 
basis of DTDM to describe/predict evolution of 
community states, shown in Figure 3.4. 
 
3.3 Prize Competition Mechanism Design for 
Seeking Shortest Path Solution  
We consider a problem of shortest path 
seeking in a transportation network, where there 
are one path solution seeker (PSS) and many 
path solution providers (PSPs) with asymmetric 
information. The PSS would like to solicit a 
shortest path solution between two nodes of the 
transportation network from PSPs. Individual 
PSPs have different and only partial network 
information. The PSS and PSPs have common 
statistical information about PSPs. The PSS 
divides the network into two sections and holds 
a prize competition in each section to solicit 
shortest path solutions from PSPs among 
specified pairs of cities in the section. To protect 
PSPs’ intellectual right, PSPs first submit the 
distance of paths only. The PSP, whose 
submitted distance is the shortest among all 
submissions for a pair of nodes, then submits the 
solution path of the pair and wins a prize. After 
procuring shortest paths in each section, the PSS 
can further connect them into a shortest path 
between the PSS’ desired pair of cities. A 
remaining design issue is that under such a prize 
competition mechanism, how the prize value 
should be designed so that the PSS can 
maximize his/her profit, which equals to the 
value of the shortest path minus the cost of 
prizes. To design the optimal prize value, 
specific challenges are as follows:  
(1) How to formulate the PSPs' path 
provisioning response to the prize? 
(2) How to set the optimal prize to each 
section as budget of the prize competition 
is fixed?  
 
3.3.1 Competitive Behavior Modeling of 
Individual Providers 
The problem of PSS’ prize setting in 
consideration of individual PSPs’ strategy of 
submitting path solution is formulated as a 
single-leader and multiple-follower Stackelberg 
game with incomplete information [18]. The 
factors affecting individual PSPs’ submission 
behavior include the prize, path computation 
cost, transportation network information, and 
crucially, how one PSP models about 
competition with other PSPs (Figure 2.1). From 
individual PSPs’ viewpoint, one will win the 
prize competition when the distance of 
submission is shorter than the shortest path 
submitted by other PSPs. Therefore, individual 
PSPs’ winning probability can be modeled by 
uncertainty of other PSPs’ submission behavior. 
This model can be a foundation to design a 
mechanism for the PSS to set optimal prize. 
 
3.3.2 Prize Setting Problem of Seeker 
For PSS’ prize setting problem, in addition 
to value of path and cost of the winning prize, 
probability distribution of information about 
PSPs’ path computation cost, total number of 
nodes in a network and path distance obtained 
via individual PSPs data collection and 
experience are formulated. 
 
3.3.3 Path Solution Provider’s Competitive 
9 
 
searching other tools to assist judging the 
performance of control rules; (iv) selecting 
plants, control specifications, fuzzy controllers, 
and control rule advices to create a set of judging 
criteria; and (v) testing different plants and 
specifications to adjust the criteria by the trial 
and error method.  The performance indices of 
the above five steps are maximum overshoot and 
rising time.  According to criterion 1, one can 
classify all the control rule advices into several 
groups.  Users who need to engage in control 
design can understand what control advices are 
available on the internet platform.  Criterion 2 
suggests which control rule advice with the same 
antecedent should be substituted into original 
rule base to run simulation first.  This thesis 
classifies the change of performance index value 
with respect to the membership function changes 
into three types.  Criterion 3 is developed for 
invariant type.  According to criterion 4 and 
criterion 5, one can judge if the performance will 
become better or not by observing the linguistic 
gradient changes of original fuzzy controller and 
fuzzy controller whose rules are replaced with 
control rule advices on the platform.  Criterion 
6 provides a feasible combination mechanism of 
control rule for designing a fuzzy controller 
whose performance is better than the original 
one. 
 
四、研究成果  
4.1 Evaluation of impact of altruism by 
Agent-Based Simulation  
   We simulate networking membership 
evolution by ABS to validate the accuracy of the 
networking dynamics models, and compare the 
results between ABS and real data from SCTNet, 
as shown in Figure 1.5. The blue color represents 
the membership growth in SCTNet which was 
collected from 2001 to 2005; the horizontal axis 
is time slots with a slot representing one month. 
In this figure, we can see that the peak time is in 
time slot 43, and the peak number is 88,683. 
Similarly, the membership growth simulated by 
ABS can be seen by the red color in Figure 1.6. 
The peak time is in time slot 45, and the peak 
number is 91,247. The accuracy of the peak 
number is 97%, and the peak time is 95.5%. 
Both figures show that the membership growth 
follows these three properties: (1) slow start 
when the community resources are poor, (2) fast 
growth with increasing TM resources, and (3) 
finally saturation. The similarity of these two 
patterns is very high.  
For effective management by the network 
manager, we use the TMSN dynamics models to 
analyze the impact of different levels of altruism 
on TMSN membership and content quantity 
evolution. The analysis results can be a good 
reference index to assist the network manager in 
making good management decisions for 
membership growth. We assume that there are 
two kinds of people in the TMSN, altruistic and 
Non-altruistic. We model altruistic people by 
using a normal distribution which has a mean 
and standard deviation equal to 0.7 and 0.1, and 
model non-altruistic people by using a normal 
distribution which has a mean and standard 
deviation that equals 0.3 and 0.1. We observe the 
networking state evolution of content quantity 
and membership by controlling the proportion of 
altruistic people versus non-altruistic people.  
Initial simulation settings are listed below: 
Initial Simulation Settings: 
Parameter  Value  
Total population  50,000  
Initial membership  1,000  
Initial content quantity 100  
Number of simulation cycles  100  
Independent Variables of Simulations: 
Parameter  Value 
Altruism 
level of each 
teacher  
{non-altruistic, altruistic}; 
selfish: Normal(0.3, 0.1), 
altruistic: Normal(0.7, 
0.1) 
Dependent Variables of Simulations: 
Parameter 
Population 
Content quantity 
Simulation Results 
In this series of three simulation scenarios, we 
vary the proportion of altruistic teachers in the 
TMSN. 
i.1 In Scenario 1 with 0% altruistic teachers, 
the population size trends down, even though the 
content quantity trends up. See Figure 1.6.  
i.2 In Scenario 2, we raise the proportion of 
altruistic teachers to 30%. Although the 
population size still trends down, the final 
population size grows from 451 in Scenario 1 to 
538. In addition, the content quantity also grows 
from 2,134 to 3,752. The results are shown in 
Figure 1.7. 
i.3 In Scenario 3, we raise the proportion of 
altruistic members to 70%. The altruistic 
contributed their TMs actively, and the TM 
resources enticed teachers to join the TMSN and 
share their materials. The population growth 
exhibited 3 stages: (1) Slow Start: In the initial 
state, the joining probability is lower than the 
leaving probability, but the number of 
non-members is higher than that of members in 
TMSN. The number of new members and the 
number of exiting members reached a balance; 
(2) Rapid increase: The TMSN resources 
attracted non-members to join the TMSN after 
11 
 
in Figure 4.4, compared with VCG auction, the 
SiSS auction can mitigate the revenue deficiency 
when there are more than 7 supply units. 
 
B.2 Impact of market competition on iterations 
The situation of market competition is defined 
in the second column in Table 2. For different 
market competitions, we examine how many 
iterations the SiSS auction needs to finish the 
allocation. The results show that for instances of 
competition level 1, all supply units can be 
allocated in one iteration. At level 2 or 3, almost 
all supply units can be allocated in two iterations 
(1.6 and 2.1 on average respectively). Therefore 
we consider the SiSS auction efficient enough 
for the allocation of unused spectrums. 
 
Table 1. Correlation between market competition and 
number of iterations needed 
Competition 
level 
Relation between supply (J) and 
total demand (D) 
Number of 
iterations needed 
Level 1 
0 ≤ J < (1/3)×D 1 
Level 2 (1/3)×D ≤ J
 < (2/3)×D 1.6 
Level 3 (2/3)×D ≤ J
 < D 2.1 
 
B.3 Computation time analysis 
Now we evaluate the computation time 
needed for the overall auction clearing problem, 
which includes iterative allocation and payment 
calculation. The more MVNOs bid, the more 
(KP) needed to be solved. An optimization tool 
suite, IBM ILOG CPLEX [25], is implemented 
for solving the auction clearing problem. For 
each (KP), the CPLEX solves it within 0.05 
second. The maximal scale we test is up to 50 
MVNOs and 200 supply units. As depicted in 
Figure 4.5, the solution can be obtained 
efficiently even when there are 50 MVNOs. 
Based on the survey of large-scale secondary 
spectrum markets, there are few countries with 
more than 50 MVNOs in operation. Therefore 
we conclude that computation time within 10 
seconds is efficient enough. 
 
4.5 Evaluation of feasibility of implementing 
and platform for collaboratively design 
An inverted pendulum (Fig 5.2) is adopted as 
the plant to verify the feasibility of the proposed 
criteria.  Assume that there are 647 control rule 
advices proposed on the platform, and 196 
control rules need to be substituted into the 
original rule base to run simulations.  
According to the criteria proposed in this thesis, 
performances of the remaining 451 control rules 
are judged without replacing the rules into 
original rule base.  The accuracy of judging 
result is about 86.3%. 
 
參考文獻  
[1] MIT Open Course Ware Home Page: 
(http://ocw.mit.edu/index.htm) 
[2] Teachers Social Network Home Page:  
(http://www.teachersn.com/) 
[3] Open Educational Resources Home Page: 
(http://www.oercommons.org/) 
[4] Smart Creative Teachers Net Home Page: 
(http://sctnet.edu.tw/), 2002. 
[5] F.- M. Bass, “A New Product Growth for 
Model Consumer Durables,” Management 
Science, Jan 1969, Vol. 15, No. 5, pp. 
215-227. 
[6] F.- D. Davis, R.- P. Bagozzi, P.- R. 
Warshaw, “User Acceptance  of  
Computer  Technology:  A Comparison   
of   Two   Theoretical   Models,” 
Management Science, Aug 1989, Vol. 35, 
No. 8, pp.982-1003. 
[7] V. Mahajan, C. H. Mason, and V. 
Srinivasan (1986), “An Evaluation of 
Estimation Procedures for New Product 
Diffusion Models,” Innovation Diffusion 
Models of New Product Acceptance, Vijay 
Mahajan and Jerry Wind, eds. Cambridge, 
Ma; Ballinger Publishing Co., 203-232 
[8] B. Eron (1979), “Bootstrap Methods: 
Another Look at the Jacknife,” The Annals 
of Statistics, Vol. 7, No. 1, 1-26 
[9] Multi-agents Simulation Tool (http://ccl. 
northwestern. edu/netlogo/) 
[10] Nowak MA, 2006. Five rules for the 
evolution of cooperation. Science 314: 
1560-1563 
[11] Trivers, R.L., 1971. The evolution of 
reciprocal altruism. Quarterly Review of 
Biology. 46: 35-57 
[12] Fehr, E., Fischbacher, U., Ga c¨hter, S., 2002. 
Strong reciprocity, human cooperation and 
the enforcement of social norms. Hum. Nat. 
13, 1–25 
[13] Angel, S., Jose, A.C., 2005. Altruism may 
arise from individual selection. Journal of 
Theoretical Biology 235, 233–240 
[14] Fehr, E., Fischbacher, U., 2003. The nature 
of human altruism. Nature 425, 785–791 
[15] C.-J. Hung (2010), “The study of 
Knowledge Sharing Behavior of Social 
Networking Websites – A case of 
Gamer.com.tw,” Master Thesis, Ming 
Chuan University. 
[16] Innovation in the crowd (Available: 
http://www.innovationinthecrowd.com/) 
[17] A. Slawsby and Carlos Rivera, “Collective 
Innovation”, June 2007 (Available: 
http://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/39518 ) 
[18] D. Garg and  Y. Narahari, “Mechanism 
Design for Single Leader Stackelberg 
Problems and Application to Procurement 
Auction Design,” IEEE Transactions on 
automation science and engineering, vol. 5, 
no. 3, July 2008. 
[19] J. D. Deaton, R. E. Irwin, and L. A. DaSilva, 
“The effects of a Dynamic Spectrum Access 
overlay in LTE-Advanced networks,” IEEE 
DySPAN, pp. 488-497, 2011. 
[20] A. Tonmukayakul and M. B. H. Weiss, 
“Secondary Use of Radio Spectrum: A 
Feasibility Analysis,” Telecommunications 
Policy Research Conference, Arlington, VA, 
USA, Oct. 2005. 
[21] H.-Y. Hsieh, H.-K. Chang, and M.-L. Ku, 
“Higher-Order Statistics Based Sequential 
Spectrum Sensing for Cognitive Radio,” 
13 
 
 
Figure 1.7 Mix Proportions of 70% 
Non-altruistic Teachers and 30% Altruistic 
Teachers 
 
Figure 1.8 Mix Proportions of 30% 
Non-altruistic Teachers and 70% Altruistic 
Teachers 
 
 
 
Figure 2.1 Factors Affecting Individual PSPs’ Path 
Solution Submission Strategy 
 
 
Figure 2.2 Expected Distance with Different Number 
of Participating Providers in One of Sections 
 
 
Figure 3.1 Article Format Model (AFM) 
 
 
Figure 3.2 Example: AFM of a Real 
Article in Gamer.com.tw 
 
 
Figure 3.3 Two Article Relation Model 
(TARM) 
 
 
Figure 3.4 Description of Evolution of Community 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
prize
e
x
p
e
c
te
d
 d
is
ta
n
c
e
 
 
 
3~4 PSPs
2~3 PSPs
15 
 
Appendices 
Appendix 1. 
R.-H. Chen, S.-C. Chang, Y.-R. Chiu, C.-C. Lai, L.-W. Yeh, “Empirical Data-Based 
Modeling of Teaching Material Sharing Network Dynamics,” International 
Conference on System, Man and Cybernetics, Oct. 2011, Alaska, USA. 
………………………………………………………………………………………16 
 
Appendix 2. 
Shun-Cheng Zhan, Shi-Chung Chang, Peter B. Luh, and Hao-Huai Lieu, “Truthful 
Auction Mechanism Design for Short-interval Secondary Spectrum Access Market,” 
to appear on Proceedings of International Conference on ITS Telecommunications 
(ITST 2012), Taipei, Taiwan, Nov. 2012. 
………………………………………………………………………………..………23 
 
本計畫經費部分支持之其他研究成果: 
 
Appendix 3. 
Y.-T. Kao, S.-C. Zhan, S.-C. Chang, Simon Wang, Fenix Wang, Joey Chang, 
“Effective Bottleneck Centric Allocation and Sequencing of Wet-bench and Furnace 
Tool Groups,” International Symposium on Semiconductor Manufacturing, Oct 2012, 
Tokyo,Japan. 
……………………….………………………………………………………….……29 
 
Appendix 4. 
M.-J. Chung, “Access Point Placement for Minimizing User Moving Distance to Set 
Up a Wi-Fi Connection,” Master Thesis, National Taiwan University, 2012.  
………………………….…………………………………………………………….34 
 
Appendix 5.  
Y.-X. Shi, “Modeling and Connection Blocking Probability Calculation of Data 
Traffic in Macrocell and Femtocell Coexistence Networks,” Master Thesis, National 
Taiwan University, 2012. 
………………………………………………………………………………………37 
 
Appendix 6.  
Y.-H. Shi, “Analyzing of Possibility for Dynamic Spectrum Access and Spectrum 
Utilization for 3G Mobile Communication,” Technical Note 
………………………………………………………………………………………..39 
  
17 
 
challenges of methodology design include three parts: i) 
Individual behavior modeling: the four individual behaviors 
are individual difference. It’s unclear how an individual is 
affected by the network states. ii) Network states evolution 
modeling: It’s unclear how the three network states evolve 
with respect to individual behaviors. iii) Data collection: the 
amount of available data is very limited. 
To overcome the above challenges, we proposed 
an approach framework. We model individual 
behavior as probabilities to capture the individual 
differences (C1). Bass diffusion model is adopted to 
model how the probabilities are affected by network 
states in three phases of slow start, fast growth, and 
saturation (C2). A QBNLS method is used to 
estimate the Bass model parameters of behavior 
probabilities from limited empirical data(C3). It is a 
foundation for network managers to make decisions 
to sustain the TMSN.  
The schematic diagram of our approach is 
depicted in Figure 1.2. It consists of 4 parts: (i) A 
QBNLS method to estimate the Bass curve 
parameter from limited empirical data; (ii) 
Bass-diffusion-model embedded probabilistic 
member behaviors modeling; (iii) Difference Eq. to 
model the network dynamics; and (iv) Agent-based 
simulation for validation. 
  
Figure 1.2 Schematic Diagram of Approach 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In 
Section II, we introduce the challenges for establishing a 
network dynamics model in existing TMSNs. In Section III, 
we show how to model member behaviors. In Section IV, we 
model the dynamic of network. In Section V, we show how to 
estimate model parameters from limited data availability and 
validate the accuracy of TMSN behavior models. In Section 
VI, we study the impact of the mix-proportion of altruistic and 
non-altruistic teachers. Finally, concluding remarks are given 
in Section VII. 
II. SOME CHALLENGES IN EXISTING TMSNS 
There are three key indices to determine the sustainability 
of a TMSN: i) the teaching materials uploaded, ii) the 
teaching materials downloaded, and iii) membership growth. 
The larger quantity and higher quality of the TMs, the richer 
the network is in content. The number of teaching materials 
downloaded represents the utilization of the teaching materials 
shared. The TM quantity and quality increase with 
membership growth, and membership growth in turn leads to 
more sharing activities.  
In this section, we shall discuss the needs and deficiencies 
of the in TMSNs. To achieve this goal, we first need to 
understand teachers behaviors in membership participation 
and sharing. We analyzed elementary school teachers’ 
behavior and the network states evolution of TMSNs by using 
the empirical data from two popular TMSNs among 
elementary school teachers in Taiwan: EduCities [9] and 
Smart Creative Teachers Net (SCTNet) [10].  
Features and issues identified from our observations 
regarding the deficiency of TMSNs are summarized as 
follows. 
i) Decrease of Teaching Material Upload Rate (C1) 
On SCTNet, the rate of material growth has been 
decreasing since 02/2001 to 06/2007, and the amount has 
reduced to 38, as shown in Fig. 2.1. A similar phenomenon is 
observed on EduCities.  
 
Figure 2.1 Monthly Uploads on SCTNet 
 
 
Figure 2.2 Monthly Downloads on SCTNet 
ii) Continuous High Download of Teaching Materials by Free 
Riders 
Compared with uploading, the download frequency is quite 
high: 20,000 download per month on average over SCTNet, as 
depicted in Figure 2.2. One of the purposes of a TMSN is that 
every member can freely download teaching materials that 
other teachers have shared. But in SCTNet, 99% of the 
members are free riders. 
As of December 31, 2006, SCTNet’s membership was 
115,900. An analysis of SCTNet (Figure 2.3) showed that only 
1,301 members had contributed TMs to the “Resources 
Sharing Area” in SCTNet. Furthermore, 75% of the teaching 
materials were provided by 27% of the contributors.  
 
Figure 2.3 Rank Ordering of 115,900 SCTNet Members by 
the Numbers of Files they Shared 
iii) Circulation Ratio 
The TM circulation ratio during a period is defined as the 
number of downloads in the period divided by the average 
number of TMs in the same period. This ratio represents the 
average number of times that each teaching material is 
downloaded in a period. The ratio also gives an indication of 
how many teachers may benefit from one teaching material. 
19 
 
total download times
( )
total login  times
df t 
 (3) 
B. Behavior Probabilities Modeling by Bass Diffusion Model 
From analysis of empirical data and interviewing teachers, we 
can observe how teachers make decisions and how network 
states affect member behaviors. We use scatter plots to 
observe possible relationships between TM quantity (CV) and 
the probabilities of joining from SCTNet. In Figure 3.2, the 
horizontal axis represents TM quantity (CV) and the vertical 
axis represents the joining probability.  
The purpose of scatter plots is to display how the joining 
probability changes with respect to the TM quantity (CV). As 
a result, the three properties we observed from empirical data 
are below: (i) Slow start: The initial small amount of TM is 
not attractive to teachers. (ii) Fast growth: Teachers become 
more interested if the TM quantity and quality exceeds a 
certain threshold. Teachers can easily find TMs that they need. 
(iii) Saturation: the TM quantity still increases, but it is not 
easy to search for needed TMs because there are too many 
TMs in the TM pool. We found that the network states 
influence probabilities which have the same three properties. 
 
Figure 3.2 Scatter Plot: Join Probability vs. TM Quantity 
Thus, we adopted the Bass diffusion model [13] to model 
the influence of network states on probabilities because of the 
same characteristics in the Bass diffusion model. The behavior 
probabilities are a function of the network states. The novelty 
of the Bass diffusion model application is changing the 
horizontal axis from time into network states, and changing 
the vertical axis from adopters of new products into behavior 
probabilities.  
Table 1 below provides the definitions of the notations used 
in the probability functions: 
Table 1 Behavior model notations  
t={1,2,...,n} Discrete time slots 
i Teacher i 
CVt TM quantity at time t (Number of 
accumulated TMs) 
CQt TM quality at time t (Average quality of 
accumulated TMs) 
Ali Altruism level (0~1) of teacher i 
Nt Number of members in TMSN  
TN Total teacher population 
xt Number of new TM uploaded at time t 
cqt TM quality of new content at time t 
djt Downloaded times of TM j at time t 
 
P1. Probability of Joining the Network  
The main motivation of teachers to join a TMSN is based 
on accessing community resources. The probability of 
teachers joining a network is affected by a key factor: the 
quantity and quality of TM available in a TMSN: Teachers 
know they are more likely to find useful material if the TM 
quantity and quality are large. Thus, the probability is a 
function of TM quantity and TM quality as shown in Figure 
3.3:  
fj (CVt*CQt ) 
P2. Probability of Leaving the Network 
Once teachers have used the TMSN, they will stay for a 
period of time and then decide whether to leave or stay. 
Higher TM quantity and quality correspond to a lower 
probability of leaving the network. 
 For the aforementioned reasons, the probability of leaving 
the network is characterized as a function of new TM 
uploaded, and current TM richness as shown in Figure 3.4.  
fl(xt*cqt , 
CVt*CQt) 
P3. Probability of Uploading TM 
The probability of uploading TM is affected by two key 
factors: (i) altruistic personality: Altruistic teachers contribute 
their TMs without asking for rewards, and they get happy 
from altruistic behavior. In contrast, non-altruistic teachers are 
not willing to upload TM without rewards; (ii) downloaded 
times of TM: If the TM were downloaded more times by 
others, teachers have a higher probability of contributing more 
TMs. We use Bass diffusion models to model the probability 
of uploading TMs, as shown in Figure 3.5. 
Pr{a teacher uploading TM at time t} ≡fu (Alit , djt) 
P4. Probability of Downloading TM  
The probability of downloading TM is influenced by the 
key factors TM quantity and TM quality. We also use the Bass 
diffusion model to model the probability of downloading TM 
as shown in Figure 3.6.  
Pr{a teacher downloading TM at time t} ≡fd (CVt*CQt) 
 
Figure 3.3 Joining Probability 
 
Figure 3.4 Leaving Probability 
 
Figure 3.5 Upload Probability 
 
Figure 3.6 Download Probability 
IV. EVOLUTION OF NETWORKING STATES MODELING 
The network dynamics of the TMSN is depicted in Figure 4.1; 
the circles represent the networking states, including 
membership (N), TM quantity (CV) and TM quality (CQ); the 
blue arrows represent member behaviors, and pink represents 
21 
 
 
Figure 5.1 Bass  Model Parameters Estimation by 
QBNLS 
B. Agent-based Simulation for Validation 
We adopt agent-based simulation (ABS) to simulate and 
analyze the behavioral characteristics of a TMSN. Key to the 
ABS approach is the modeling of individual members into 
agents which decide their personal behaviors. Once good 
behavior models are built into ABS, it can then serve as an 
excellent tool to simulate the collective behaviors for 
analyzing the real world; this has been demonstrated by 
applications in various ﬁelds [11,12].  
The goal of the simulations is to validate the accuracy of 
the TMSN dynamic models based on empirical data. Our 
simulations are designed in discrete time where each time unit 
is called a slot. The actions in one cycle are depicted in Figure 
5.2. 
 
Figure 5.2 Actions in One Simulation Cycle 
TMS Member 
r.1. In the beginning of each time slot, a member of the 
TMSN has two decisions to make—whether to upload a TM 
and whether to leave the network. 
r.2. We assume that a member uploads one TM at most in 
each time slot. Any member decides whether to upload TM by 
upload probability. The quality and quantity (CVt+1 and CQt+1) 
of the TM pool in the TMSN will be updated. 
r.3. A member decides whether to leave the network 
according to the probability. If a member leaves the network, 
the membership will be decreased by one. 
Non-TMS Member 
l. A teacher who is not a member of the TMSN decides 
whether to join the system by the join probability. The 
membership will be increased by one.  
 
Figure 5.3 Comparison of Membership Evolution between 
ABS and SCTNet 
    In this paper, we simulate networking membership 
evolution by ABS to validate the accuracy of the networking 
dynamics models, and compare the results between ABS and 
real data from SCTNet, as shown in Figure 5.3. The blue color 
represents the membership growth in SCTNet which was 
collected from 2001 to 2005; the horizontal axis is time slots 
with a slot representing one month. In this figure, we can see 
that the peak time is in time slot 43, and the peak number is 
88,683. Similarly, the membership growth simulated by ABS 
can be seen by the red color in Figure 5.3. The peak time is in 
time slot 45, and the peak number is 91,247. The accuracy of 
the peak number is 97%, and the peak time is 95.5%. Both 
figures show that the membership growth follows these three 
properties: (1) slow start when the community resources are 
poor, (2) fast growth with increasing TM resources, and (3) 
finally saturation. The similarity of these two patterns is very 
high. 
VI. IMPACT OF SENSITIVE AND NON-SENSITIVE PEOPLE 
IN TMSN 
For effective management by the network manager, we use the 
TMSN dynamics models to analyze the impact of different 
levels of altruism on TMSN membership and content quantity 
evolution. The analysis results can be a good reference index 
to assist the network manager in making good management 
decisions for membership growth. We assume that there are 
two kinds of people in the TMSN, altruistic and Non-altruistic. 
We model altruistic people by using a normal distribution 
which has a mean and standard deviation equal to 0.7 and 0.1, 
and model non-altruistic people by using a normal distribution 
which has a mean and standard deviation that equals 0.3 and 
0.1. We observe the networking state evolution of content 
quantity and membership by controlling the proportion of 
altruistic people versus non-altruistic people.  
Initial simulation settings are listed below: 
Initial Simulation Settings: 
Parameter  Value  
Total population  50,000  
Initial membership  1,000  
Initial content quantity 100  
Number of simulation cycles  100  
Independent Variables of Simulations: 
Parameter  Value 
Altruism 
level of each 
teacher  
{non-altruistic, altruistic}; 
selfish: Normal(0.3, 0.1), 
altruistic: Normal(0.7, 0.1) 
Dependent Variables of Simulations: 
Parameter 
Population 
Content quantity 
A. Simulation Results 
In this series of three simulation scenarios, we vary the 
proportion of altruistic teachers in the TMSN. 
i.1 In Scenario 1 with 0% altruistic teachers, the population 
size trends down, even though the content quantity trends up. 
See Figure 6.1.  
i.2 In Scenario 2, we raise the proportion of altruistic 
teachers to 30%. Although the population size still trends 
down, the final population size grows from 451 in Scenario 1 
to 538. In addition, the content quantity also grows from 2,134 
to 3,752. The results are shown in Figure 6.2. 
i.3 In Scenario 3, we raise the proportion of altruistic 
members to 70%. The altruistic contributed their TMs actively, 
and the TM resources enticed teachers to join the TMSN and 
share their materials. The population growth exhibited 3 
stages: (1) Slow Start: In the initial state, the joining 
 23 
 
 
Truthful Auction Mechanism Design for 
Short-interval Secondary Spectrum Access Market* 
 
Shun-Cheng Zhan
1
, Shi-Chung Chang
1
, Peter B. Luh
2
, Hao-Huai Lieu
3
 
1
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
2
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Connecticut, Storrs, USA 
3
Graduate Institute of Industrial Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—With the emergence of dynamic spectrum access 
technology and quick growth in demands for broadband mobile 
access, exploitation of short-interval spectrum availability offers 
an opportunity to better utilize spectrum. A short-interval 
secondary spectrum (SiSS) market is proposed in this paper, 
where a Mobile Network Operator (MNO) rents out multiple 
units of homogeneous spectrum units to Mobile Virtual Network 
Operators (MVNO) on a short-interval basis via a SiSS broker. 
The mandated SiSS broker not only presides over the trading but 
also manages an online database which is significant to the 
communication between MNO and MVNOs. For the purpose of 
efficient trading, we adopt the Vickrey-Clarke-Groves (VCG) 
auction as the basis to design a truthful SiSS auction. There are a 
few innovations. The first is a highly expressive cumulative 
bidding format, which allows maximum bidding options to 
MVNOs and eliminates the need for iterative bid refinement. The 
second is incremental bid constraint with reserve price to ensure 
bid per unit higher than the reserve price. Thirdly, an iterative 
allocation and payment calculation is so designed that per unit 
payments of winning MVNOs are higher than the reserve price 
set by MNO while maintaining the VCG merit of truthful 
bidding. A rational MNO is thus incentivized to put lowly utilized 
spectrum units for rent. Preliminary numerical experimentation 
demonstrates that the truthful SiSS auction generates to MNO in 
average 23% higher revenue per spectrum unit than the VCG 
auction. Computation time for broker to clear the auction is 
within 10 seconds for up to 50 bidders and 200 spectrum units, 
which suits SiSS applications. 
 
Index Terms – SiSS market; MNO; MVNO; broker; VCG-based 
auction; truthful; revenue deficiency; cumulative bidding format; 
incremental bid constraint; reserve price; iterative allocation 
I. INTRODUCTION 
With the development of new wireless broadband 
technologies like WiMAX and LTE, high transmission speed 
and superior quality of e-services increase the demands for 
bandwidth rapidly [1]. As the technologies and demands 
change with times, the current static “command and control” 
spectrum policy results in inefficient spectrum usage because 
the spectrum licenses last for a period of years. Measurement 
results of spectrum utilization clearly indicated that spectrum 
resources are sporadically unused in many geographical areas 
and over time [6]. Regulatory bodies such as the Federal 
Communications Commission (FCC) of U.S. has taken 
significant steps to remove regulatory barriers and facilitate 
the development of secondary markets in spectrum usage 
rights among the wireless radio services since 2000 [13]. To 
satisfy explosive spectrum demands by using limited spectrum 
resources, access right of unused spectrum is allowed for rent 
in the secondary spectrum market. 
In the next generation wireless networks, also known as 
dynamic spectrum access (DSA) networks [2], cognitive radio 
(CR) technology is developed to exploit sporadically unused 
spectrum resources well [12]. Terminal devices with CR 
capability can communicate by using various frequency, 
transmission power and modulation modes based on the 
external radio environment. The temporarily unused spectrum, 
which may be idle for tens of minutes to hours, become 
valuable for secondary access in the DSA networks. 
There have been secondary spectrum market designs to 
match spectrum availability in short time intervals with 
fluctuating demands. In this paper, the market is called 
short-interval secondary spectrum (SiSS) market. The players 
in the SiSS market are mobile network operators (MNO) and 
mobile virtual network operators (MVNO). A MNO is a 
typical wireless service provider (WSP) who provides mobile 
and internet access service to subscribers by MNO’s own 
spectrum resource and network infrastructure. Besides, MNO 
would dynamically rent unused spectrum out to MVNOs for 
earning additional revenue. A MVNO is also a WSP but 
without spectrum license. A MVNO provides customer care 
and value-added service to subscribers through dynamically 
renting spectrum usage from MNO. 
Compared with general secondary spectrum markets, the 
design of the SiSS market emphasizes on efficient trading. 
There has been literature on the research of secondary 
spectrum market such as spectrum pricing [4] and profitability 
guarantee [7]. However, the research about the trading 
efficiency and complexity has not been discussed extensively. 
Although a low complexity auction framework was proposed 
for the real-time spectrum trading [8], some practical 
considerations such as trading opportunity search and trading 
information exchange have not been addressed. A survey 
paper investigated some of the challenges to be solved before 
a practical SiSS market can be developed [9]. Such challenges 
include precise identification of spectrum opportunity, proper 
selection of market architecture and topology and efficient 
exchange of spectrum information. Besides, the fund transfer 
among secondary users and license holders is also a challenge 
because the secondary users may switch from band to band 
[10]. To address the aforementioned challenges, designs of 
auction mechanisms and spectrum brokerage have been 
proposed for the SiSS market [8, 11]. 
Research challenges in a SiSS market are as follows: 
C. How to design a feasible SiSS market framework to 
realize spectrum trading on a short-interval basis? 
* This work was supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, 
ROC, under grants NSC 98-2219-E-002-004, NSC 098-2811-E-002-001 
NSC 98-2221-E002-138-MY3 and NSC 99-2219-E-002-004. 
Appendix 2 
 25 
 
(6) According to the settlement, MNO and winning MVNO 
pay the SiSS broker commission fees and the winning 
MVNOs pay the rents. 
  In such design of a short-interval market framework for 
spectrum trading, the online OSDB centralizes information 
regarding to trading opportunities, reduces transaction cost 
and increases the viability of the SiSS market. Via the access 
and distribution of historical spectrum information, the SiSS 
market provides all participants with identical information, 
which reduces the gap of asymmetric information among 
participants. Services such as OSDB maintenance and auction 
hosting are mandated to an entrusted SiSS broker. Detailed 
design of a VCG-based SiSS auction mechanism will be 
presented in Section III. 
III. TRUTHFUL SISS AUCTION MECHANISM DESIGN 
  To substantiate the spectrum trading under the SiSS market 
framework, we design a VCG-based, single-round bidding 
and truthful SiSS auction. After receiving bids from MVNOs, 
the SiSS broker would allocate to bidding MVNOs as many 
supply units as possible via an iterative process. Innovations 
in the design include: 
(a) Highly expressive cumulative bidding format (CBF) to 
allow maximum bidding options for MVNOs and 
eliminate the need for iterative bid refinements; 
(b) Incremental bid constraint with a reserve price to 
guarantee bid per unit higher than the reserve price; 
(c) Iterative allocation and payment calculation to prevent 
the occurrence of low revenue while maintaining the VCG 
merit of truthful bidding. 
With the integrated designs of (b) and (c), the SiSS auction 
can incentivize MNO to rent unused spectrum out and 
MVNOs to bid truthfully. To mathematically formulate the 
truthful SiSS auction, let us first define some notations. 
 
Table 1. Notations for the truthful SiSS auction model 
N number of MVNOs; 
i MVNO index, i=1, 2, …, N; 
S set of MVNOs, S={1, 2, …, N }; 
J number of spectrum units to rent provided by MNO; 
di the maximal bidding quantity by MVNO-i; 
j spectrum unit index, j=1, 2, …, J; 
ij bid price for j units submitted by MVNO-i; 
R reserve price per unit set by MNO; 
k iteration index; 
qik number of units allocated to MVNO-i before the start of 
the k
th
-iteration of allocation, and qi0 = 0; 
ijk bid price for j units of MVNO-i in the k
th
-iteration; 
Qk remaining number of units before the start of the 
k
th
-iteration, i.e., Q1=J; 
sk number of units to allocate in the k
th
-iteration; 
k maximum demand quantity among MVNOs in the 
k
th
-iteration, i.e., k =max{di – qik, i=1, …, N}; 
xijk binary decision variable in the k
th
-iteration, xijk=1 as j 
units allocated to MVNO-i, and xijk=0, otherwise. 
A. Highly expressive CBF 
For a single-round auction of multiple units, bidding format 
design is challenging. The SiSS auction must provide MVNOs 
with a highly expressive bidding format which can clearly 
represent bids on all possible quantity options via one 
submission of bids. For MVNO-i, who demands for di units, 
the CBF allows it to submit bids in the format of  
[1 unit: i1, 2 units: i2, …, di units:
iid
 ]. 
The main advantages of the CBF are as follows: 
(i) The CBF with maximum bidding options can eliminate 
the need of iterative bid refinement. 
(ii) Compared with the bidding format of single bid 
submission for di units, the CBF allows MVNOs to win 
part of the demand. 
B. Incremental bid constraint with a reserve price 
  For a MNO to rent the MNO’s unused spectrum out, there 
must be an incentive to cover the minimum value of the 
spectrum perceived by the MNO or idling cost of the 
spectrum. Reserve price setting by the seller is often one way 
to achieve the purpose. In our design, a reserve price per unit, 
R, set by MNO is broadcasted by the broker to MVNOs 
before the start of bidding. MVNOs who like to bid for 
spectrum must then follow that bid offer per unit must be 
higher than R, or equivalently, bids must satisfy the 
incremental bid constraint: 
 ( 1) .ij i j R     (1) 
As the winner’s payment is the opportunity cost of winning 
which is calculated based on others’ bids offer. Such a 
constraint on MVNO’s bid offers lays a foundation for the 
innovation of iterative allocation and payment calculation. 
C. Iterative allocation and payment calculation 
The classic VCG auction has a problem of revenue 
deficiency that when competition is weak or the bidders are 
highly asymmetric in demands, revenues from the VCG 
auction may be low [14]. To be precise, the deficiency occurs 
when the remaining demand is more than supply after 
removing the bidder with the most demand from the market. 
Such deficiency can not be solely resolved by imposing the 
incremental bid constraint with reserve price on MVNOs’ bids; 
it is also rooted in that payment by a bid winner is the 
opportunity cost of winning the bid instead of paying as bid. 
According to the analysis of [5], adjusting the low payment to 
the reserve price can overcome revenue deficiency. But such 
an extension of VCG may lose the merit of truthful bidding. 
To reduce revenue deficiency while maintaining truthful 
bidding, in addition to imposing the incremental bid constraint 
with reserve price on MVNOs’ bids, we design for the SiSS 
broker an iterative allocation and payment calculation scheme 
to settle the auction. Based on the submitted bids from 
MVNOs, the SiSS broker first determines the number of units 
to allocate for the 1
st
-iteration, s1, by evaluating the situation 
of competition given individual demand and supply quantities. 
Allocation of s1 units and the calculation of payments then 
apply the standard VCG mechanism. After updating the 
remaining demands and supply, the SiSS broker starts the next 
iteration and repeats the procedure till demands are met or all 
supply units are allocated. It will be shown later that a winner 
will pay at least the reserve price for each unit the winner 
wins and that being truthful is the optimal bidding strategy. 
Now we use Figure 2 to describe how the SiSS auction 
proceeds in one iteration, say, iteration k: 
Step 1: Re-compute bid information 
In the k
th
-iteration of allocation, the SiSS broker first 
computes, based on the submitted bids in CBF, the 
incremental bids of each MVNO for the unsatisfied demand of 
 27 
 
MVNO-i, ik≡k ik(j), j=1, …, di-qik], and -ik≡k i’k, i’≠
i], which are obtained from Eq. (2). When MVNO-i bids 
truthfully, that is ik(j)= vi(j), for j=1, …, di-qik; the allocation 
result from solving KP-sk is that MVNO-i wins aik units and 
other MVNOs win a-ik, where a-ik≡kai’k, i’≠i]. Based on the 
payment calculation in Eq. (5), MVNO-i’s payment for the aik 
units is then 
\ \( ( ), ( )) .
k k iks s a
ik ik ik S i S iik ik
p a a B B 

    Now 
assume that MVNO-i bids untruthfully with ' ( ) v ( )i iv j j  and 
other bidders’ bids remain ik. The solution from solving 
KP-sk is that MVNO-i wins 'ika  
units and other MVNOs win 
'
.
ik
a MVNO-i’s payment for the 
'
ika  units is 
''' '
\ \( ( ), ( )) .
k k iks s a
ik i ik S i S iik ik
p v a a B B

     
Define the utility of a winner as the true valuation of the 
units won minus the payment for the units. Now, we prove 
that the utility of truthful bidding (Uik) is no less than the 
utility of any untruthful bidding ( 'ikU ). Based on the payment 
calculation in Eq. (5) and definition of utility, the utility to 
MVNO-i who bids truthfully is 
' '
\ \ \ \
\
'
\
' '
\ \ \ \
'
v ( ) (v ( ), ( ))
v ( ) ( ) v ( )
( )
( )
v ( ) v ( ) ( )
v ( ) (
k k ik k ik k
k
k
k ik k k k ik
ik i ik ik i ik ik ik
s s a s a s
i ik i ikS i S i S i S i
s
l lk S i
l S
s
l lk S i
l S
s a s s s a
i ik i ikS i S i S i S i
i ik ik
U a p a v a
a B B a B B
a B
a B
a B B a B B
a p


 
 


 
 
     
 
 
     
 


'' ' '( ), ( ))i ik ikik ika a U    
 (7) 
Bidding truthfully is thus optimal to every MVNO-i in any 
iteration. Truthful bidding therefore leads to the maximal 
utility ik
k
U  than 'ik
k
U  which means the utility of any 
other bidding strategy under CBF. QED. 
B. Numerical Performance Evaluation 
After proving properties, there are still three issues: 
1) How do SiSS and the standard VCG auctions compare in 
revenues for the MNO and in payments for MVNOs?  
2) How does the number of allocation iterations vary with 
respect to market competition situation?  
3) Will the computation time of SiSS auction be feasible when 
the number of MVNOs becomes large?  
A test scenario is designed to perform numerical evaluation 
of SiSS auction and address the three issues. Tables 1 lists the 
parameter settings of the scenario, where the number of 
supply and individual’s demand are both uniform distributed. 
The reserve price, R, is set at 1000. Bids of MVNOs must 
follow the incremental bid constraint. The situation of market 
competition is based on the correlation between supply and 
demand units and defined in Table 2. The SiSS auction runs 
over 20 instances of the scenario. 
 
Table 1. Parameter setting for numerical evaluation of SiSS auction analysis 
Parameter Value 
N Fixed at 5 
J Uniform distribution in the range of [5, 15] 
di Uniform distribution in the range of [1, 5] 
ij 
p follows the uniform distribution in the range of  
[R, 1500] 
i0 = 0, ij = i(j-1)+p, j=1, 2, …, di 
 
B.1 Comparison of SiSS and VCG Auctions in MNO revenues 
By design, the SiSS auction ensures that per unit payment 
be higher than the reserve price and mitigates the revenue 
deficiency problem of VCG auction when the market is in 
weak competition. Figure 3 depicts MNO’s total revenue and 
average revenue per unit generated by SiSS and VCG auction 
over the 20 instances. Results show that SiSS auction has in 
average of 23% higher revenue per unit than the standard 
VCG auction. Besides, the SiSS auction maintains the average 
revenue per unit at lower variation than those of VCG auction. 
Specifically, in instances #11, #12 and #17, the significant 
variances are showed because of weak market competition. 
 
Figure 3. MNO revenue comparison between SiSS and VCG auction 
 
To further realize how market competition affects the 
MNO’s revenue, we first select one instance and then observe 
the correlation between the MNO’s revenue and the number of 
supply units given fixed total demand. As shown in Figure 4, 
compared with VCG auction, the SiSS auction can mitigate 
the revenue deficiency when there are more than 7 supply 
units. Detailed analysis of MVNO’s payment show that some 
winners pay nothing in VCG auction when supply is high, 
which causes the revenue deficiency to MNO. 
 
Figure 4. Correlation between MNO’s revenue and supply unit 
 
B.2 Impact of market competition on iterations 
The situation of market competition is defined in the second 
column in Table 2. For different market competitions, we 
examine how many iterations the SiSS auction needs to finish 
the allocation. In the 20 instances, we count the ratio of 
occurrence of each competition level and the number of 
iterations needed. The results show that for instances of 
competition level 1, all supply units can be allocated in one 
iteration. At level 2 or 3, almost all supply units can be 
allocated in two iterations (1.6 and 2.1 on average 
respectively). Therefore we consider the SiSS auction efficient 
enough for the allocation of unused spectrums. 
 
Table 2. Correlation between market competition and number of iterations 
needed 
Competition 
level 
Relation between 
supply (J) and total 
demand (D) 
Ratio of 
occurrence 
Number of 
iterations 
needed 
Level 1 0 ≤ J
 < (1/3)×D 7/20 = 35% 1 
5 10 15 20
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
x 10
4
Times of auction
T
o
ta
l 
re
v
e
n
u
e
 
 
5 10 15 20
0
500
1000
1500
2000
Times of auction
A
v
e
ra
g
e
 r
e
v
e
n
u
e
 p
e
r 
u
n
it
 
 
VCG auction
Truthful SiSS auction
VCG auction
Truthful SiSS auction
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
x 10
4
Number of supply unit
T
o
ta
l 
re
v
e
n
u
e
 
 
VCG auction
Truthful SiSS auction
 29 
 
Effective Bottleneck Centric Allocation and Sequencing of Wet-bench and 
Furnace Tool Groups* 
Yu-Ting Kao
1
, Shun-Cheng Zhan
1
, Shi-Chung Chang
1
,
 
Simon Wang
2
, Fenix Wang
2
, Joey Chang
2
, 
1 
Grad. Inst. of Industrial Engineering, National Taiwan University, 
2
Inotera Memories, Inc. 
Correspondence Author: Dr. Shi-Chung Chang, National Taiwan Univ., Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-mail: scchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw  Phone: +886 -2-2363-5251 ext. 207  Fax: +886 -2-2363-8247 
 
[2] Abstract – Effective scheduling of wet bench and furnace 
tools is important to operation efficiency of semiconductor 
fabrication, where furnace tool group may usually be a 
bottleneck. The major challenges come from the batching 
requirements, internal tool sequence, and waiting time 
limitations, which constitute the problem complexity. This 
paper develops a novel two-phase solution scheme, a 
bottleneck centric integrated allocation and sequencing 
method (BCIASM), to effectively integrate the sequencing and 
allocation for wafers processing by wet bench and furnace 
tools. Phase I focuses on producing a sequencing integrated 
furnace schedule by assuming a fine furnace model with 
internal robot sequencing captured but a coarse wet-bench 
model. The schedule determines individual furnace tool 
allocations to products and steps satisfying major sequencing 
constraints. Furnace tool allocations are then viewed as 
demands for allocating and sequencing wet bench tools in 
Phase II. An existing optimization tool is skillfully applied in 
both phases. Test results over problem instances extracted 
from real fab data show superiority of the method. BCIASM 
leads to near-optimal schedules, 6.58% higher utilization than 
a hybrid allocation scheme of optimization and manual 
adjustment, and significant mean waiting time reductions.  As 
BCIASM requires less than 30 seconds of computation time to 
obtain the results, it demonstrates a good potential for both 
large size problems and applications to dynamic allocations. 
I. I. INTRODUCTION 
Production scheduling of semiconductor fabs has drawn 
much research attention due to its technical challenges as well 
as significance. Wet bench and furnace tool groups very often 
are bottleneck(s) in semiconductor fabrication [1]. Fabrication 
steps processed by a furnace tool require much longer 
processing times than those of other steps, ranging from 2 
hours to over 10 hours. Batch processing is therefore adopted 
to increase the throughput per tool, where the forming of a 
batch requires a minimum number of wafers of the same recipe 
to raise tool utilization. There is also a limitation on the 
maximum number of wafers in a batch. Wafers flowing into 
the furnace tool group may wait to form a batch before being 
loaded for processing. After being processed at the furnace tool 
group, wafers are then released to tool groups of downstream 
steps in batches. Furnace tool group steps thus have high 
variability in throughput and are bottlenecks of cycle time as 
well as capacity [10].  
Wet bench tools, abbreviated as “wet” hereafter, have 
similar batching requirements but shorter processing times and 
smaller maximal batch sizes.  Wet steps are usually upstream 
steps of furnace. How wet tools supply wafers affects the 
available wafers for furnace, and therefore how capacities of 
wet and furnace tool groups are allocated need to be 
coordinated with each other. It was evaluated for the diffusion 
area of IBM’s 300mm fab that a coordinated scheduling and 
dispatching of wet and furnace tool groups may lead to 8.2% 
wet and 25.3% furnace cycle time reductions [3]. The 
computation time is within 5 minutes. However, the detailed 
models are not given. 
The major complications of furnace scheduling come from 
batching requirements on furnace tools.  The forming of a 
batch requires wafers of the same processing recipe. Types and 
structures may be different among furnace tools. Figure 1 
depicts one type of furnace tools [8], which consists of two 
reactors and two wafer handling robots. Once some Front 
Opening Unified Pods (FOUPs) carrying wafers are put on the 
load port of a tool and the batch size is determined, the cassette 
robot first moves them sequentially to the intermediate buffer, 
and then puts these wafers in the transfer module for charging. 
The wafer robot then takes it to the reactors, where processing 
takes place. After processing, the wafer robot put the boat to 
the module again for discharging, and the cassette robot 
unloads it. Note that from the viewpoint of individual FOUPs, 
waiting time is not allowed from loading to processing in order 
to maintain the quality of wafers. The two reactors compete for 
the robots. Robot sequencing therefore needs to be considered 
with batching requirements of the reactor scheduling decision.  
Similar to the furnace, the batching characteristic on 
heterogeneous tools is required of the wet. As the processing 
times of wet are much shorter than those of the furnace, the 
maximal batch size is smaller as well. Figure 2 shows one type 
of wet tools consisting of several etch and rinse tanks, a dryer 
module, a common transfer module, and a material-handling 
robot. Wafer processing of each FOUP follows a route going 
through the tanks and/or modules. FOUPs of different products 
at different processing steps have different routes. Similar to 
furnace tools, waiting is not permitted along the route for each 
FOUP. FOUPs going through different routes may have 
conflicts when they require the same tank and result in extra 
waiting and undesirable quality. Detail tank sequencing is 
therefore needed to do batching decision for each tool.  
In addition to the characteristics of each tool group 
mentioned above, there are also inter-group constraints 
between wet and furnace tool groups such as wafer flows and 
waiting time limitations. The wafers in the queue for furnace 
processing can only wait for limited time after their release 
from wet steps. If the waiting time of a wafer exceeds the 
limitation, it would be put through rework. Rework incurs 
extra cost, time and quality loss, and is highly undesirable. 
There are also cross-step waiting time limitations, which begin 
at wet and end at furnace and further complicate the 
scheduling problem. As wet steps are usually upstream steps of 
furnace, wet schedule will affect wafer availability to furnace 
tools. Meanwhile, the schedule of furnace tools will decide 
MC-O-075 
* This work was supported in part by Inotera Memories, Inc. under 
project C11-0005 and by the National Science Council, Taiwan, 
ROC, under grant NSC 98-2221-E002-138-MY3. 
Appendix 3 
 31 
 
furnace and wet tools (TASP) minimizes the weighted sum of 
(i) penalties from missing production targets and (ii) the total 
waiting time of individual lots subject to furnace tool 
allocation constraints in [7] plus sequencing, wet and 
inter-group constraints (C1) to (C8). A production target of a 
type at a step is the number of FOUPs of the type to finish 
processing at the step during one scheduling period. If the 
production goes beyond the target, a reward (negative penalty) 
is added to the objective function.  
III. BOTTLENECK CENTRIC ALLOCATION AND 
SEQUENCING SOLUTION SCHEME 
As TASP is too complex to be efficiently solved, a 
two-phase solution scheme, the bottleneck centric integrated 
allocation and sequencing method (BCIASM), is designed. 
According to the Theory of Constraints [2], bottleneck tool 
capacity allocation significantly affects the overall production 
performance. As furnace tools are usually cycle time and/or 
capacity bottlenecks as compared to the wet bench, furnace 
should be scheduled first and then the wet. The procedure of 
BCIASM is depicted in Figure 3. Phase I is a furnace-centric 
scheduler assuming a coarse wet-bench model and a fine 
furnace model with internal reactor-robot sequencing captured. 
The solution determines individual furnace tool allocations to 
products and steps over time satisfying major sequencing 
constraints. Then in Phase II, a detailed wet scheduling is 
performed with furnace tool allocations of phase I as demands 
for wet bench steps to supply to furnace steps under 
sequencing constraints among wet tanks and inter-group 
constraints such as waiting time limitations.  
Specifically, the sequencing integrated furnace scheduling 
problem of Phase I, is formulated to maximize the production 
value of furnace tool group subject to furnace tool allocation 
constraints in [7] plus (C1) to (C3) and (C6) to (C8). As 
processing times of furnace steps by a tool may range from 2 
hours to over 10 hours, which are much longer than those of 
wet steps, a coarse time-scale resolution is adopted for 
decisions in this phase. Note that the coarse wet-bench model 
assumes a fixed processing time for all wet processing routes, 
which is longer than the actual processing times of individual 
routes. The reason is to make sure that all the furnace demands 
are achievable by wet steps. The schedule of Phase I is then 
viewed as the inputs for Phase II to obtain detailed wet tank 
schedule.  
Phase II schedules wet bench with detailed tank sequencing 
and inter-group constraints between wet and furnace tool 
groups, and is formulated to minimize the makespan from wet 
to furnace steps subject to (C4) to (C9). The decision in this 
phase adopts a fine time-scale resolution because the 
processing times for some tanks inside a wet tool are relatively 
short. To fulfill the detailed furnace demands generated in 
Phase I, one more type of constraints are added to Phase II 
scheduling problem:  
(C9) Furnace move demand fulfillment  
Wet steps are wafer suppliers of furnace steps. With the 
scheduled demands in furnace steps given, wet tools should 
supply proper amounts of wafers at proper time to avoid the 
violation of single-step and multiple-step waiting time 
limitations while considering the tank route constraints.  
An optimization tool suite ILOG OPL CPLEX
TM
 [9] is 
adopted to solve the bottleneck centric two-phase allocation 
and sequencing problem.  Such a scheme reduces the solution 
complexity in each Phase, where only the integrated allocation 
and sequencing problem of one tool group is solved in details 
at one time. For the purpose to speed up computation, all the 
logical constraints like (C1) and (C4) are transformed into 
linear form. The computation complexity of wet-furnace 
scheduling is therefore reasonably contained this way.  
Solution optimality is expected to improve from that of [7] 
because of a higher fidelity in modeling wet tool operations. 
III. IV. APPLICATION RESULTS: A MEMORY FAB CASE 
Consider an application problem for evaluating BCIASM 
There are three products to be fabricated for two layers of 
circuitry by furnace, wet and a third tool groups involving 5 
process steps. All the three products in two circuitry layers 
compete for the same resources. Steps S1 and S3 require wet 
tools, S2 and S5 require furnace tools and S4 is processed by 
the third tool group. The maximal batch size is 5 FOUPs for a 
furnace tool and 2 FOUPs for a wet tool.  Table 1 lists 
detailed problem settings, where the tool counts are about half 
the scale of a real fab, and the processing time and queue time 
limitations are from the same fab. The times listed are 
separated in the unit of 15 minutes for Phase I and 3 minutes 
for Phase II. In addition to the limited waiting times for single 
steps S2, S4, and S5, there is also a multiple-step waiting time 
limitation from S3 to S5. Note that the waiting time limitations 
of furnace operations are relatively short as compared to their 
individual processing times (1/3 or less).  Seven instances are 
generated out of the basic problem, which is extracted from 
daily data during one week from a memory fab, one of the 
major DRAM manufacturers in Taiwan.  
Over the seven instances, performance of BACIASM is 
evaluated and compared with the two methods of direct 
solution of TASP and TAA with manual adjustment.  These 
three methods apply a linear integer programming software 
tool.  All are implemented on a computing platform with a 
CPU of Intel Xeon W3680@3.33 GHz and 5.98 GB RAM, MS 
Windows 7 SP1 as OS and IBM ILOG CPLEX 12.1.0.  The 
stopping criterion set for CPLEX application is no more than 
5% difference from optimality for TASP, and in the BCIASM, 
5% for phase I and no optimality gap for phase II.  As shown 
in Table 2, the total computation time of BCIASM is largely 
reduced to less than 30 seconds from more than 30mins by the 
application of CPLEX to TASP directly. Let JTASP be the cost 
function value of TASP and JBCIASM be the cost function value 
of BCIASM. Defined G  | JTASP - JBCIASM |/ JTASP as the 
difference percentage between the feasible solutions found by 
BCIASM and TASP. The average cost function value of 
schedules by BCIASM is a little bit higher than that obtained 
by direct solution of TSAP. But the difference, G, is less than 
5%. Analyses show that the computation efficiency of 
BCIASM originates from significant reduction in total 
numbers of constraints and decision variables as compared to 
TASP without sacrificing much schedule optimality by 
separating the problem into two phases for the purpose of 
finding a feasible solution in a short time.  
Table 3 lists the performance improvements of BCIASM as 
compared to TAA with manual adjustment over 48 time slots, 
i.e. 12 hours. The adjustment is required only when both 
reactors in a tool are allocated by TAA such that they need the 
 33 
 
# of decision variables 
(thousands) 
> 280 
Phase I: 53; II: 131 
Total: ≈ 184 
 
Table 3. Performance superiority of BCIASM method 
 
TAA + manual 
adjustment 
BCIASM 
Furnace utilization (%) 43.34 49.92 
Mean waiting time (min) 41.11 29.91 
Rework 1.17 0 
Method 
Performance 
 35 
 
distance as the optimization indicator of AP setup. It aims to find out the AP setup of the minimum average 
moving distance for the user, by considering the condition that the user can only access the Wi-Fi network 
by moving.   
 
We discuss about the subjects related to AP setup first. There are several factors which affect the 
location to set up AP such as the setup quantity, the protocol standards of 802.11, the area of design plane, 
the indoor or outdoor environment, the obstacles, the centralization of Wi-Fi user distribution and the 
interference between APs. Based on these factors, we discuss a large public area indoors. In this area, AP is 
always installed in the ceiling so that it is located in environment with radio obstacles. Based on this 
environment, we analyze how (i) the existence of obstacles and (ii) the centralization of user distribution 
affect the optimal setup of a AP or multiple APs. 
 
This research constructs mathematical models for these two mentioned topics respectively. In the aspect 
of designing objective function, we use the conditional expectation as an optimization indicator. When the 
user out of the AP signal area wants to access Wi-Fi network, we minimize the average shortest path 
between the user and AP. As for the constraints, we restrict that every AP pair should be located separately to 
keep a safe distance without any interference, and AP can’t be set up in area with obstacles. In the aspect of 
Wi-Fi user distribution, uniform distribution represents that the distribution of Wi-Fi access demands is not 
centralized, while truncated Gaussian distribution represents that the distribution of Wi-Fi access demands is 
centralized. Here we call the area with centralized access demands “Essential Area.” Then we discuss the 
influence of different cumulative probabilities and positions of essential areas on the optimal AP setup. In 
the aspect of mobile obstacles, we use square-shaped obstacles as the representative of the interior partitions. 
Moreover, we compare the difference of the optimal AP setup in the environment with or without obstacles. 
 
    As for the solution, we find the optimal AP setup locations in different scenarios by using MATLAB. 
Then we use analytic solution in mathematics to make a two-way verification in the scenario of no obstacles, 
uniform distribution and one installed AP. The simulation results show that the optimal setup locations of 
one AP are all in the center of a design plane on the condition that the Wi-Fi access demands are uniform 
distribution, or the essential area is in the center of the design plane and with low cumulative probability. 
Moreover, when Wi-Fi access demands are uniform distribution, we found that optimal setup locations of 
multiple APs are in the center of rectangles if the design plane is divided into several identical rectangles. 
When the Wi-Fi access demands are truncated Gaussian distribution, if the cumulative probability of the 
essential area is high, the optimal AP setup location is at the circle with the distance covered by the central 
AP signal as the radius. Moreover, we also find that this exception is related to the area of the design panel. 
According to the analysis results, it is because of the design of objective function. In the scenario with 
obstacles, no matter what the usage demands are uniform distribution or truncated Gaussian distribution, the 
optimal setup location of one AP tends to be far away from the obstacles. Moreover, when the area covered 
by the AP signal is bigger than essential area, the optimal setup locations are the same for both the usage 
demands being uniform distribution and truncated Gaussian distribution. 
 37 
 
摘要 
有鑑於 femtocell 與 macrocell 共存系統是於將來行動通訊的趨勢之一，本研究考慮 femtocell 及
macrocell 共存系統在固網端之連結流量需求與頻寬配置。論文情境設定為一個擁有頻譜執照的無線
服務供應商，並且擁有 macrocell 及 femtocell 系統，而在此情境下，以下問題於焉產生：macrocell
與 femtocell 間固網頻寬分配比例對 3G 系統之連結阻隔機率有何影響? 
 
考慮此共存系統，藉由何孟翰[MHH11]對於用戶需求流量之模型，來自 macrocell 用戶與 femtocell
用戶之連結需求之流量由基站接入，並匯流到後端固網之容量，作為電信業者評估固網容量配置之標
準，數據連結需求以頻寬為需求單位，若來自 Macrocell 用戶之流量超過後端配置之 macrocell 頻寬，
則用戶之新進連結需求會被阻隔，或對 femtocell 用戶亦然；我們探討的重點放置在由 macrocell 與
femtocell 兩種流量需求，業者建設之後端容量會對兩種基站之阻隔機率造成什麼影響。 
 
由於數據連結需求之頻寬資源不若語音服務是藉由專用通道接取，因此若接取的連結數越多，頻
寬資源能提供給 macrocell 或 femtocell 單一連結的量越少，因此本論文針對頻寬共享之特性，採用
Processor Sharing 的模型以描述，並考慮若一連結需求須有一定之傳輸速率，共存系統固有之固網頻
寬容量有限，因此有一最大限制之連結個數，若系統中已存在最大連結個數，則新進連結會被阻隔掉，
此為本研究考慮之連結阻隔機率。 
 
藉由[Li11][Coh79]之 M/M/1//r-PS 解析解分析模型之阻隔機率，並利用 MATLAB 軟體來進行模
型的求解以及分析系統效能，我們發現影響整體系統阻隔機率的關鍵因素分別是系統整體流量以及固
網端分別配置給 macrocell 與 femtocell 的容量；當系統整體流量越高，共存系統之阻隔機率越高；若
固網容量增加對於降低共存系統之阻隔機率有好的成效，然業者亦可評估建置成本與能達到之阻隔減
低效益之比。 
 
關鍵字：femtocell 與 macrocell 共存系統、數據服務、固網容量、頻寬需求、連結阻隔機率 
Appendix 5 
 39 
 
摘要 
  為因應行動通訊服務需求遽增，現有固定頻譜分配政策已窘迫不合用。雖然現有的 GSM 系統已
提供不錯的頻譜使用率，然而在 3G 系統蓬勃發展之下，勢必會影響 GSM 系統頻譜的使用狀況。且
根據國家通訊傳播委員會(NCC)表示，將於 102 年採技術中立原則下，釋出行動寬頻業務執照，屆時
3G 無線電頻譜是否存有機會可供以動態頻譜接取(DSA)技術進行彈性化頻譜共享使用將是我們要繼
續探討的課題。 
 
Abstract 
Because the demand for mobile communication service has increased rapidly, the existing fixed 
frequency spectrum distribution policy is not appropriate anymore. Although present GSM spectrum band 
has find spectrum utilization, however, under the vigorous development of the 3G system is bound to affect 
the use of the spectrum in GSM system. According to National Communication Commission (NCC), that the 
mobile broadband business license will be released in 2012 under the principle of technology neutrality and 
whether there’s an opportunity for the 3G spectrum to be utilized by DSA would be discuss continuously.  
Appendix 6 
 2 
 
 
 
 
二、與會心得 
這是我第一度參加國際研討會，在出發報告之前,要好好的花時間將自己所要報告的投影片好好整
理,並且多加練習自己想要報告的內容,報告當日會相當緊張,  要做好相當的心理建設。面對提問
者的發問，可以先重複一次對方的問題，一來可以多花點時間思考，二來可以紓緩緊張的情緒，
回答問題時不用太過於有壓力，將自己所知的講清楚即可。在聆聽別人的報告成果，可以很快的
做筆記，將別人陳述的重點寫下來，整理出自己有問題的地方，並提問。雖然在語言上不甚順暢，
但這樣討論思辯可以幫助更加釐清一些事情，是這次研討會最大的收穫。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
 
四、建議 
希望國科會能多支持研究生參加國際研討會，以期增加國際互動，並可以從別人身上學得一些我
們尚未注意到的事，在我們的環境下精益求精。除了可以對於業界的國際發展更敏感之外，對於
學術界，也可以看到別人的進展，並彼此交流，產生合作或良性競爭。這樣產生效益或許不是立
即可以看出效果，但就像種子，會慢慢發芽並茁壯的。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
論文資料一本及光碟一片，裡面有論文與投影片的檔案。 
 
六、其他 
無 
 
 
 
 
 2 
8th IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and Engineering 
August 20-24, 2012, Grand Hyatt Hotel, Seoul, Korea 
Program at a Glance    Monday    Tuesday    Wednesday    Thursday    Friday    Author Index    Keyword Index    My 
Program   
Last updated on August 19, 2012. This conference program is tentative and subject to change 
Program at a Glance 
CASE 2012 Technical Program Monday August 20, 
2012     Monday    Tuesday    Wednesday    Thursday    Friday   Top 
CASE 2012 Technical Program Monday August 20, 2012 
Tutorial/Workshop 1 Tutorial/Workshop 2 Tutorial/workshop 3 
08:30-12:30 
Namsan I 
Tutorial Session MoAT/W1 
 
Tutorial 1 - Morning: Global Supply Chain Networks http: 
//supplychainecosystem.blogspot.in/2012/06/ieee-Case-2012-Tutorial-Global-Supply.html 
08:30-12:30 
Namsan II 
Tutorial Session MoAT/W2 
 
Tutorial 2: Production Systems Engineering: Theory 
and Applications http: 
//www.productionsystemsengineering.com/index.html 
08:30-12:30 
Namsan III 
Tutorial Session MoAT/W3 
 
Workshop 3: Industry Practices on Map Data Representation 
for Robot Navigation https: 
//sites.google.com/site/sc7koros/calendar/workshop-Program 
      
13:30-17:30 
Namsan I 
Tutorial Session MoBT/W1 
 
Tutorial 1 - Afternoon: Global Supply Chain Networks http: 
//supplychainecosystem.blogspot.in/2012/06/ieee-Case-2012-Tutorial-Global-Supply.html 
13:30-17:30 
Namsan II 
Tutorial Session MoBT/W2 
 
Workshop 2: Emerging Topics from Special Sessions 
at CASE 2012 http: 
//xs3d.kaist.ac.kr/TC-SMA/Specialworkshop.htm 
13:30-17:30 
Namsan III 
Tutorial Session MoBT/W3 
 
Workshop 1: Energy Management & Automation System for 
Smart Grid http: //www.case2012.org/menu/SmartGrid.html 
 
 
 
CASE 2012 Technical Program Tuesday August 21, 
2012     Monday    Tuesday    Wednesday    Thursday    Friday   Top 
CASE 2012 Technical Program Tuesday August 21, 2012 
T1 T2 T3 T4 T5 
08:30-09:30 
Grand Ballroom II 
 4 
Plenary Lecture II: Scheduling & Control of Integrated Semiconductor Manufacturing Tools and Petri Net Scheduling, 
Prof. Tae-Eog Lee 
          
10:00-12:00 
Grand Ballroom II 
Regular Session WeAS 
 
Best Student Paper Award Competition 
          
13:00-15:00 
Grand Ballroom II 
Special Session WeB1 
 
Scheduling Methods 
for Semiconductor 
Manufacturing 
13:00-15:00 
Namsan I 
Special Session WeB2 
 
Advanced Manipulation 
in Practical Services 
13:00-15:00 
Namsan II 
Special Session WeB3 
 
Monitoring and Fault 
Analysis 
13:00-15:00 
Namsan III 
Regular Session WeB4 
 
Discrete Event 
Systems (1) 
13:00-15:00 
Namsan V 
Regular Session WeB5 
 
Industrial Robotics (1) 
          
15:30-17:30 
Grand Ballroom II 
Regular Session WeC1 
 
Production Planning 
and Scheduling 
15:30-17:30 
Namsan I 
Special Session WeC2 
 
Automation in 
Maintenance of Social 
Infrastructures 
15:30-17:30 
Namsan II 
Special Session WeC3 
 
Modeling, Analysis and 
Operation of High 
Technology 
Manufacturing 
15:30-17:30 
Namsan III 
Regular Session WeC4 
 
Discrete Event 
Systems (2) 
15:30-17:30 
Namsan V 
Regular Session WeC5 
 
Industrial Robotics (2) 
 
 
 
CASE 2012 Technical Program Thursday August 23, 
2012     Monday    Tuesday    Wednesday    Thursday    Friday   Top 
CASE 2012 Technical Program Thursday August 23, 2012 
T1 T2 T3 T4 T5 
08:30-09:30 
Grand Ballroom II 
Plenary Session ThPS 
 
 6 
二、與會心得 
這是我第一度參加 8th IEEE International Conference on Automation Science and 
Engineering，不過是第二次參加國際 conference，第一次是在 2011年。跟上一次相比，雖然全
球不景氣，但是南韓在自動化產業表現仍然蓬勃發展，因此此次會議，有好幾篇 Keynote講者在
分析談自動化科技的過去與現在，並展望未來的發展。 
台灣自動化展業並不算特別的顯眼，在國際上發表的 paper也不算非常多，或許可以走跟著南
韓有點相似的路線，對於這樣的態度或許是我們可以借鏡的地方。除了南韓業界之外，也有國際
上大廠發表了近期的技術和製造發展，雖然在語言上不甚順暢，但這樣討論思辯可以幫助更加釐
清一些事情，是這次研討會最大的收穫。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
 
四、建議 
希望國科會能多支持碩博士生參加國際研討會，不儘可以增加國際互動，拓展世界觀，並可以從
別人身上學得一些我們尚未注意到的事，在我們的學習環境下精益求精。除了可以對於業界的國
際發展更敏感之外，對於學術界，也可以看到別人的進展，並彼此交流，產生合作或良性競爭。
這樣產生效益或許不是立即可以看出效果，但就像種子，會慢慢發芽並茁壯的。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
光碟，裡面有論文與投影片的檔案。 
 
六、其他 
無 
 
   
2 Invited talks 
1) The Realities of Virtual Metrology 
Prof. Costas J. Spanos, Andrew S. Grove Distinguished Professor, Electrical 
Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of California, Berkeley 
2) 3D-Integrated Circuits Technologies-The History and Future- 
Morihiro Kada, Association of Super-Advanced Electronics Technologies(ASET) 
(2) Co-chaired the Manufacturing Strategy and Execution System (MS/ES) sessions, 
2:40 pm – 4:40pm, where Shi-Chung Chnag’s paper was presented by his PhD 
student Ms. Yu-Ting Kao. 
(3) Served as a representative of Taiwan participants to propose a toast in the evening 
reception. 
(4) Discussed a 2nd joint ISSM and e-manufacturing & design collaboration symposium 
2013, Taiwan  with Janapnese Executive committee chair Mr. Shuuichi Inoue of 
Renesas Electronics Corp.,  Janapnese Program committee chair Mr. Toshiyuki 
Uchino of Renesas Electronics Corp. and Professor Lothar Pfitzner of Fraunhofer - 
IIS-B  
 
三、 與會心得 
1. The continuous appreciation of Japanese Yen has created a very high financial 
pressure to Japanese semiconductor and electronics industries and has been the top 
headache to CEOs. 
2. Production control is relatively mature in semiconductor manufacturing except the 
part of automatic manufacturing material handling system (AMHS) part. 
3. New processes require advanced process control and optimization approach. 
4. Shi-Chung Chang will help with making happen the  2nd joint ISSM and 
e-manufacturing & design collaboration symposium 2013, Taiwan.  Professor 
Chen-Fu Chien of National Tsing-Hua University was also a participant and showed 
his support of this proposed event to ISSM Japan. 
5. The keynote speeches and invited talks brought not only industry trends but also 
speakers’ visions, from which I gained the most from ISSM 2012. 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. PROCEEDINGS in a USB. 
2. White paper of  2nd joint ISSM and e-manufacturing & design collaboration 
symposium 2013, Taiwan, proposal. 
 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張時中 計畫編號：98-2221-E-002-138-MY3 
計畫名稱：維基式創新與佳化機制之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 3 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 4 4 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
