尖峰電流造成低功率電路效能降低之分析，減緩與測試技術研究 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-035-128-MY3 
計畫主持人：鄭經華 chengch@fcu.edu.tw  04-24517250#4963 
 
 
摘     要 
本研究之主題在於研究設計一個能快速有
效地自動分析並優化、降低尖峰電流的工具，
以優化邏輯層次的組合邏輯電路與循序電
路，並在不損失其原有系統速度效能或者符合
時序限制的前提下，同時使用雙臨界電壓邏輯
閘以及調整邏輯閘驅動能力等方法，使尖峰電
流與優化動態、靜態功率的消耗在技術許可上
降到最低。本文中所提出的NLSTA與NLDTA
兩種優化方法，乃是以尖峰電流值配合SIS為
基礎再加以改良，並且在標準元件庫
(Cell-Based Library) 中 ， 加 入 Multi-Vth 
Flip-flop元件；以及在重新計算Slack Time的
過程中，加入Incremental STA的概念，期望本
程式能在最短的時間內達到最大的效能。本程
式主要分為分析與模擬尖峰電流及優化降低
尖峰電流兩部份。最後再以ISCAS89測試電
路，並將之與由中正大學電機工程研究所所提
供的VLD(Variable-Length Decoding)真實電路
以Synopsys的Nanosim進行驗證。測試結果，
在不增加電路時間延遲的限制下，本論文所設
計的程式平均可將尖峰電流下降40%，而功率
消耗平均可節省20%。而尖峰電流分析程式分
析部份的最大尖峰電流平均誤差為11% 
 
Abstract: 
Peak current (Ipeak) induced voltage drop impacts circuit 
delay time and reliability. The objective of this research is to 
propose an efficient methodology with in-house tools to analyze 
and degrade the Ipeak. This proposed methodology can reduce 
peak and average power, while optimizing the circuit delay time 
and area. By dual threshold voltage and gate resizing 
techniques, the framework lowers the short, dynamic and static 
leakage power consumption without losing system performance. 
This framework has been divided into two parts, Ipeak analysis 
and Ipeak alleviation processes. Nonlinear static/dynamic 
timing analysis techniques in cooperation with dual Vth cell 
library provides two kinds of accurate delay time calculation 
methods used in this research. By using the incremental STA, 
the speed of slack time calculations is increased. 
Demonstration of the ISCAS89 benchmark circuits show 39% 
Ipeak, 14% power consumption and 19% delay time reductions 
after alleviation process. There are less than 2% and 10% 
estimation errors of the Ipeak and power (gate level) with 
respect to the Nanosim (circuit level) simulation results. 
Keywords: peak current, voltage drop. 
 
研究成果說明 
在過去有許多論文提出很多方法來降低尖
峰電流，如:論文[10][11]的利用邏輯閘尺寸調
整、論文[12]的利用時脈偏移調整和論文[13]的
利用暫存器輸出訊號變化所產生的尖峰電流值之
差異，利用訊號反向互補的方式來進行峰值電流
的改善等等。這些論文都存在著一些問題，例如：
為了達到目的，而會讓電路的效能下降、面積變
大或是功率變高等問題。因此，如何在不損失電
路效能而又能降低尖峰電流是目前極大的挑戰。 
雖然使用這些方法的確能降低尖峰電流最大
值，但是實質上電流本身並沒有變小，只是利用
時間位移電流值錯開，有點指標不治本。 
我們都知道，尖峰電流是因為電晶體導通時
所產生的電流，因此可以用下列公式表示： 
2)(
2
1
Tninn VVL
WcoxIds −= μ ……………
……(Saturation Region) 
))(2(
2
1 2
OOTnIn VVVVL
WcoxIds −−= μ …
……(Linear Region) 
 由公式發現，電流值的大小除了與長寬比有
關以外，也跟臨界電壓(Vth，Threshold Voltage)
有關。當臨界電壓越大時，電流就越小。有其正
亦必有其反，臨界電壓變大後，隨之所付出的代
價就是該邏輯閘的速度也會隨之變慢。因此，本
論文的研究方向，是如何準確調整電路上每一個
邏輯閘所使用的臨界電壓，在不降低電路的效能
的前提下，而又能達到降低尖峰電流與功率的效
果。 
從前的方法幾乎都僅止於以非相依性測試向
量的方式計算出電路的 Static Timing Analysis，進
而達成減少尖峰電流；如此一來不僅高估了整體
電流的 Upper Bound，更是不合乎電路產生電流
的實際情況。 
以這樣的想法為基準，便孕育出本研究的降低尖
峰電流的方法。利用非線性延遲模型(Nonlinear 
Delay Model)，在使用相依性測試向量的情況
下，依照各個邏輯閘的延遲訊號不同進而分析電
路的非線性動態時序分析 (Nonlinear Dynamic 
Timing Analysis) 。 在 經 過 邏 輯 模 擬 (Logic 
Simulation)以後，找出在相依性測試向量的情況
下會進行訊號轉換動作的邏輯閘，配合電流模型
(Current Model)，更精準的計算出電路在單位時
間上電流的分布情形。再利用電路中各節點的餘
裕時間(Slack Time)，在不違反餘裕時間限制的情
況下，利用調整臨界電壓(Threshold Voltage)與調
整邏輯閘驅動能力(Gate Resizing)的方式來減少
尖峰電流來達成電路整體尖峰電流的降低。 
經過實驗結果證明，我們確實成功開發了一
個能不損失其原有系統速度效能，而又能夠降低
尖峰電流且能同時優化功率與面積的一個 EDA 
tool，本軟體透過非線性時序分析與能夠處理
Flip-flop 的靈活度，有效的利用電路中的時間餘
裕以達到求得最佳降低尖峰電流的目的。且文中
為了進一步提升軟體效能，特別加入了
Incremental STA 的概念來加強執行速度。這一個
快速自動降低尖峰電流的程式能減少 Designer 來
回 Front-end 與 Back-end 的時間，並提高電路的
穩定度。 
對於 PeakCurrentAnalysis 來說，我們可以很
輕易的決定採用NLSTA或NLDTA模式來降低尖
峰電流與功率，且透過所採用的方法來求得最佳
的解決方案。由於在 PeakCurrentAnalysis 優化
過程中，Flip-flop 的特性也同時被列入考量，也
就是說在餘裕時間的分配上，我們可以更有效的
針對電路中的最大尖峰電流來源進行縮減，無論
是降低尖峰電流或是降低功率。因此對於不同製
程的變異下，使用 PeakCurrentAnalysis 都將可
以進行處理，而不會有製程上的相依性，這一點
將大大提升 PeakCurrentAnalysis 在實際情況下
的實用性。 
Delay = 0.20
Arrival = 0.20
l   .
rri l  .
Delay = 0.10
Arrival = 0.30
l   .
rri l  .
Delay = 0.06
Arrival = 0.36
l   .
rri l  .
Delay = 0.07
Arrival = 0.43
l   .
rri l  . Delay = 0.20Arrival = 0.63
l   .
rri l  . Delay = 0.11
Arrival = 0.75
l   .
rri l  .
Required = 2.78ir   .
Required = 2.66ir   .Required = 2.46
ir   .
Required = 2.39ir   .
Required = 2.33ir   .
Required = 2.23ir   .
Delay = 0.00
Arrival = 0.00
l   .
rri l  .
Required = 2.03ir   .
Fig. 2 The sequential circuit delay slack computation. 
Most of the Ipeak comes from the flip-flop (FF) state 
transition. In the proposed technique, both the FF and logic 
gate Vth simultaneously adjusted to reduce the Ipeak. The 
contribution of this research is two fold. First is a quick and 
accurate Ipeak estimation technique. The second is the 
designed circuit Ipeak alleviation technique to degrade the peak 
and average current values. The proposed dynamic timing 
incremental analysis methodology can accurately and quickly 
identify the application circuit Ipeak.  
2. The Literature Surveys 
[1] proposed an algorithm that determines the clock arrival 
time at each flip-flop in order to minimize the current peaks while 
respecting timing constraint. Benchmark circuits show that 
current peaks can be reduced by more than a factor of two 
without penalty on cycle time and average power dissipation. 
[2] proposed an opposite-phase scheme for peak current 
reduction. The basic idea is to divide the clock buffers at each 
level of the clock tree into two sets: an half of clock buffers 
operate at the same phase of the clock source, and another half 
of clock buffers operate at the opposite phase of the clock source. 
Consequently, our approach can reduce the peak current of the 
clock tree nearly 50%. Current waveforms as shown in Fig. 4. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. [1] proposed the peak current reduction waveforms. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. [2] proposed the peak current waveform. 
The [1, 2] proposed the efficient Ipeak reduction technique 
that uses the useful clock skew to shift the Ipeak generation 
location. This technique does not consider the waveform 
dimension magnitude is nearly same, this leads the highest 
peak current reduced but not for the power reduction. 
CLUSTVAR (Cluster Inclined Supply and Threshold Voltage 
Scaling with Gate Resizing ) [3] proposed to use an algorithmic 
platform for power optimization from using dual supply voltage, 
gate sizing, and dual threshold voltage. The work allows the 
circuit with the lowest dynamic and leakage power consumption 
on the basis that the circuit will not violate timing constraint. 
CLUSTVAR based on maximal weight of independent set. By 
demonstrating on combinational circuits in the MCNC’85 
benchmark suite, dynamic and leakage power savings up to 
42% and 67% respectively. The STA based CLUSTVAR 
technique is an efficient low power technique and focus on the 
combinational circuit only, without considering the FFs issue.  
 
 
3. The Proposed PIPR Technique 
Critical Path  
Fig. 5. PIPR uses dual threshold voltage techniques. 
The largest Ipeaks are generated from the FFs with prior 
stages of the logic gates transition at the same time. High Vth 
gate has higher circuit delay time with lower Ipeak than Low Vth 
gate. The PIPR technique let the logic gates in non critical path 
with positive slack time replace to high Vth gate as shown in Fig. 
5.  
The gate resizing technique uses the greedy algorithm. 
From defining the logic gate slack time symbol as φ. The gate 
resizing process is selecting the gate which has the largest φ, 
to replace this gate using small driving gate. For the gate has 
least φ, resizing the gate to the large driving gate. This process 
target is to maintain the circuit performance and to degrade the 
transition current value. In this research, we prove only from the 
threshold voltage adjusting and gate resizing techniques can 
effective reduce the Ipeak. 
From the threshold voltage adjusting and gate-resizing 
techniques, the Ipeak, average power and area can be reduced. 
The Vth adjusting and gate sizing techniques are under the 
positive delay slack time, the circuit delay time than would not 
be increased finally.   
Most of the traditional IR-drop evaluation techniques are 
computed by STA. The STA count the path delay by summation 
all individual gate delay, this is named as the linear STA, which 
does not consider the gate delay difference from threshold 
voltage varying of each gate. STA is a pattern independent with 
worst-case estimation technique. Due to the STA technique 
provides too pessimistic evaluation of the circuit delay times, it 
is only suitable for the design to be used for general 
applications.  
Dynamic Time Analysis (DTA) technique is used for the 
pattern dependent delay time calculation. The DTA estimate 
results are closed to the real application results. 
In traditional design strategy, the circuit performance 
analysis is relying on the longest path delay calculation by using 
STA/DTA. The voltage drop may not induced circuit delay, due 
to not all gates in the circuit affected by voltage drop, the path 
delay will not increase if the all gates consume current do not 
over maximum supply current on this path’s. Moreover, the 
circuit total delay would not increase, if the gate increasing 
delay (due to lower voltage) does not locate on the critical path. 
So, need not all paths repeat timing recalculation by STA/DTA. 
The proposed incremental STA/DTA technique focus on the 
necessary paths they should concern, for avoiding too many 
paths’ delay time should be recomputed.  The NLSTA 
(nonlinear STA) using the table lookup method to estimate the 
gate delay time, which is pattern dependent. Due to the NLSTA 
technique based on the real circuit transition times, the 
estimation results are more accurate than STA to be used for 
specific application. 
NLDAT (nonlinear DTA) achieve more accurate estimations 
than DTA, and the calculation time is the longest that compared 
with STA, NLSTA and DTA. The accurate voltage induced delay 
is a dynamic behavior, which is pattern dependent. NLSTA 
technique is needed to design a reliable chip without specific 
application such like CPU. NLDTA is real application transition 
current, it suitable used for the specific application designs. The 
NLDAT verification input patterns provided by circuit designer, 
which might lower than NLSTA.  
The Ipeak is pattern/timing dependent. The proposed 
NLSTA/NLDTA is pattern dependent estimation technique; it 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10. The PIPR generic circuit process flow. 
It is hard to accurate compute the Ipeak from higher-level 
model. The PIPR technique proposes the gate level estimation 
and reduction methodology. This technique can also reduce the 
average power consumption without the circuit delay time and 
area increases penalty. The proposed framework includes gate 
level quick estimation functionality with transistor level accuracy. 
Nonlinear STA model uses non-linear timing analysis technique 
to compute the accuracy slack time. This framework help 
designer to design low peak and average circuits in the earlier 
phase. 
 
6. Experimental Results Analysis 
There are 10 test circuits are used to demonstrate the 
efficiency of PIPR methodology. Nine of the ISCAS89 
benchmark circuits, the VLD circuit is variable length video 
decoder design. Table 1 shows the original circuit simulation 
results (by Nanosim). 2000 random test patterns are used for 
the test circuit. These results are used as the basis in the follow 
comparisons with the CLUSTVAR technique [3]. The follow 
negative ratios mean the values obtained are less than the 
original basis from using the proposed technique. 
Table 1. The circuit original simulation results. 
 
In Table 2, comparison with CLUSTVAR technique, there is 
35% more average Ipeak reduction for the NLSTA and NLDTA 
techniques. There is 7% and 8% more power reduction for the 
NLSTA and NLDTA technique, respectively. The results show 
the good Ipeak reduction technique is change the Vth of FF.  
 
Table 2. The Ipeak and power reduction ratios. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the CLUSTVAR technique without consider the delay 
time optimization of FFs, the circuit delay times increased after 
the process. In Table 3, comparison with CLUSTVAR technique, 
there is 40% and 58% delay time reduction for the NLSTA and 
NLDTA techniques, respectively. There are without difference of 
the area comparisons with the NLSTA and NLDTA technique. 
Table 3. The delay time and core area reduction ratios. 
 
CLUSTVAR technique based on the static STA algorithm, 
the proposed PIPR technique uses the non-linear STA, the 
delay time look up from the tables. From the execution time 
comparisons, there is less time of for the large circuit  
Table 4 shows the Ipeak and power reduction comparisons 
with [2]. Table 5 shows the PIPR simulation results for the same 
test circuits. Due to the testbench for these two methods are 
different. The circuit original power consumption and Ipeak are 
different. From these two tables’ comparisons, [2] reduce 9.5% 
more Ipeak than PIPR. However, the PIPR methodology has 
15.3% more power saving than [2]. The above values are 
obtained from circuit simulation uses Nanosim simulator.  
Table 4. Clock-skew optimization for power/Ipeak reduction. 
 
Table 5. The proposed PIPD for power/Ipeak reduction. 
 
 
The Nanosim simulation results are taken as the golden 
values. Table 6 shows the comparison with the Nanosim results, 
the PIPR framework provide the good estimations, there are 
average 1.87%, 9.66% less Ipeak and power consumption 
estimations than Nanosim, respectively. But from the Table 7, 
there computation time of PIPR is faster average 334X than 
Nanosim. The quick and good estimation results help designer 
to predict the circuit voltage drop situation earlier.  
Table 6. The average error comparisons of Nanosim and PIPR. 
 
Circuit
Combination 
Circuit_ori
Flip-flop 
Circuit
CUT
Combination 
Circuit_ori
Power Optimization  i i i
Combination 
Circuit_opt
Circuit
Combination 
Circuit_opt
Flip-flop 
Circuit
MERGE
STEP3STEP2STEP1
參加 2009 年國際 ASPDAC 學術會議報告 
 
電子工程系  鄭經華助理教授 
 
本次會議時間自 98 年 1 月 19 日至 98 年 1 月 22 日，地點是在日本的 Yokohama 市，
主辦機構名稱 IEEE Computer Society，共約三百餘人與會(%60 來自日本以外國家)國
內參加人員共約 10 位。 
 
此次承蒙國科會與學校補助出席參加此會議，除對校方支持深表感激外，更要求自
己應認真學習，希望能有所收穫來回饋到教學與研究上。因這個會議是在 SoC 設計一
個很重要的會議。會期中探討 Yield Analysis & Enhancement, Testing Technique & Error 
Recovery, Defect & Fault Tolerance, and Wafer Scare/Large Area System 方面最新的研究
成果，參加此會議後有助於了解設計新一代 SoC/VLSI 系統 Testing 時所面臨的困難與解
決方法，與此研究領域的最新動向外，並藉與各專家學者討論後，習得它國學術界研究
現況與工業界的經驗作法，希望能有機會介紹協助本國廠商提高生產技術。參加此次會
議額外收穫是認識了一些來自工業界的演講者，經驗極為豐富，會認識他們是因他指點
我發表的 paper 內現在電路的設計技術，他們並告示我另一些比較大的問題，與他們相
處的感覺和其他來的人相比，似乎比較直接了當肯講清楚而且熱誠些。因此我當時就向
他們請教，如果我有機會想邀請他們來台灣給我們一些指導，及安排他們到學校來訪問
並給我們一些建議。 
A Full-Synthesizable High-Precision Built-In 
Delay Time Measurement Circuit 
Ming-Chien Tsai, Ching-Hwa Cheng {chengch@fcu.edu.tw} 
Department of Electronic Engineering, Feng-Chia University Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract 
Delay testing has become a major issue for manufacturing advanced Systems on a Chip. Automatic Test Equipment and scan 
techniques are usually applied in delay testing. However, the circuits under test have many circuit paths and dependent input 
patterns; it is hard to measure delay times accurately, especially when debugging small delay defects. We propose a Built-In 
Delay Measurement (BIDM) circuit that is modified from Vernier Delay Lines.  All digitally designed BIDMs with small area 
overhead can be easily embedded within testing circuits. BIDMs can be used to record the data propagation delay times within 
circuit path segments, for delay testing, diagnosis, and calibration requirements internal to the chip. Our BIDM was 
implemented in a 32bit error correction circuit by a chip using TSMC 0.18u technology. The instruments measured results 
showing that the BIDM chip correctly reported the CUT segment path delay times. The chip measurement results were a 
95.83% match to the postlayout SPICE simulation values. This BIDM makes it possible to debug small delay defects in chips. 
Summary 
Delay testing has become a major issue for manufacturing advanced Systems on Chips. High resolution ATE (Automatic Test 
Equipment) cannot measure circuit path delays that last only several picoseconds. Therefore, an internal chip performance 
failure debugging strategy has become an urgent need. The circuits under test have many circuit paths and dependent input 
patterns; it is hard to measure delay times accurately, especially when debugging small delay defects. We propose a 
synthesizable high resolution built-in delay measurement (BIDM) circuit that applies vernier delay lines (VDL). We adapt VDL 
design to transfer measurement times to digital values by a time-to-digital transformer, as shown in Figure 1(a). A cell-based 
BIDM circuit with small area overhead can be easily embedded within the circuit under test (CUT), as shown in Figure 1(b). 
The BIDM circuit can be used to record the data propagation delay times within circuit path segments, for delay testing, 
diagnosis, and calibration requirements internal to the chip. The measurements were transferred to digital format, then recorded 
into scan Flip-Flops for outside observation. Because the BIDM circuit has high precision timing and has been verified by real 
chip implementation, the focus of BIDM is to accurately measure delay time for internal chip debugging. 
We measure the timing difference within two signals of reference signal (Ref) and target signal (Data). We define D-time as 
the time difference between the Data and Ref signals. The D-range means the maximum D-time minus the minimum D-time; 
after measurement operation, the D-range represents BIDM resolution capability. When D-time increases, it is difficult to use 
traditional VDL to capture the correct relation between signals. The long VDL line is sensitive to buffer cell placement, 
interconnection delay and process variation issues. These factors make the measurements inaccurate. Therefore, we propose a 
novel technique that has the potential to solve some of the problems with VDL-based designs. We designed the BIDM circuit 
using VDL with Coarse (Figure 2(a)) and Fine parts (Figure 2(b)), keeping the VDL lengths short to make the measurements 
accurate. This design is innovative and can resolve a long standing problem with VDL designs, namely the need for long delay 
chains to extend the measurement range. The circuits can significantly reduce the number of delay elements required to extend 
the time measurement unit range. The module design method is easily expandable, if one needs to evaluate large time ranges. 
Our technique is the reuse of VDL registers to scan measurement data out. 
Our BIDM circuit was implemented in a 32bit error correction circuit by a chip using TSMC 0.18u technology. The 
postlayout simulation results for the circuit are shown in Figure 3(a). The average measurement D-ranges are 21.35ps for one 
fine-stage, and 130ps for one coarse-stage. Figure 3(a) shows that one case’s CO1, CO2, CO3, FO1, FO2, FO3, and FO4 
outputs are logic-high from simulation waveforms. The output status representing the D-range is [454ps~472ps], as shown in 
Figure 3(b). The BIDM report D-range covers a real delay time of 461ps. The proposed BIDM is cell-based; it can be easily 
synthesized within a CUT with little area overhead (138x117um2).We used five chips to validate the BIDM chip deviations; we 
measured each chip’s CO and FO outputs by applying the same patterns, from TestCase-1 to TestCase-4. These five chip 
measurement results are shown in Figure 4(a)(b). The bold line indicates the TT model post-layout simulation results. For 
example, in FO4, for Chip-2 and Chip-3, measurements and simulations are same. However, for Chip-1 and Chip-4, outputs are 
different from simulations. The Chip-3 measurement results were a 100% match to the post-layout SPICE simulation values in 
Figure 4(c). This Cell-based designed BIDM circuit can tolerate PVT variations well. The  supplied voltage variances (±10%) 
are used with Chip-3. The measurement results are slightly different, only the last output (FO5) logic state might change the 
results of one TestCase. The other outputs of CB and FB are quite stable. After obtaining the scan out logic states from the 
BIDM circuit, we can calculate the internal segment path delay time range by finding the D-time of the Ref and Data signals. 
The instruments measured results showing that the BIDM chip correctly reported the CUT segment path delay times. 
The BIDM circuit can accurately measure small path delay times from an internal chip, and report the timing measurement 
results to outside observation by scan chains. Our BIDM circuit’s ability to measure shorter times makes internal segment path 
delay debugging practical. The measurement precision and accuracy could be improved by using advanced process technology. 
參加 2009 年國際 ASPDAC 學術會議報告 
 
電子工程系  鄭經華助理教授 
 
本次會議時間自 98 年 1 月 19 日至 98 年 1 月 22 日，地點是在日本的 Yokohama 市，
主辦機構名稱 IEEE Computer Society，共約三百餘人與會(%60 來自日本以外國家)國
內參加人員共約 10 位。 
 
此次承蒙國科會與學校補助出席參加此會議，除對校方支持深表感激外，更要求自
己應認真學習，希望能有所收穫來回饋到教學與研究上。因這個會議是在 SoC 設計一
個很重要的會議。會期中探討 Yield Analysis & Enhancement, Testing Technique & Error 
Recovery, Defect & Fault Tolerance, and Wafer Scare/Large Area System 方面最新的研究
成果，參加此會議後有助於了解設計新一代 SoC/VLSI 系統 Testing 時所面臨的困難與解
決方法，與此研究領域的最新動向外，並藉與各專家學者討論後，習得它國學術界研究
現況與工業界的經驗作法，希望能有機會介紹協助本國廠商提高生產技術。參加此次會
議額外收穫是認識了一些來自工業界的演講者，經驗極為豐富，會認識他們是因他指點
我發表的 paper 內現在電路的設計技術，他們並告示我另一些比較大的問題，與他們相
處的感覺和其他來的人相比，似乎比較直接了當肯講清楚而且熱誠些。因此我當時就向
他們請教，如果我有機會想邀請他們來台灣給我們一些指導，及安排他們到學校來訪問
並給我們一些建議。 
