 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
智慧型家庭的開發 – 子計畫二：「我的家」icon：家庭資訊全覽 
MyHome icon: Overview of s Smart Home at a Finger Tip 
計畫編號： NSC 97-2221-E-011-100 
執行期限：2008 年 08 月 01 日至 2009 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：鍾聖倫    台灣科技大學電機工程系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
本論文介紹一種建構在 OSGi 標準框架上的一
個智慧家庭發展平台 MyHome，其最重要的功能
是達到讓最重要的家庭資料都能在指尖間唾手
可得。本基於 OSGi 標準框架之 MyHome 平台
結合整合的資料庫，能完整地提供：動態地添
加、刪除，配置，並與其他各種家庭設備溝通等
四類服務。本報告的主要貢獻是提出一種事件驅
動，多線程的智慧家庭服務伺服器：MyServer，
此伺服器是建構在 OSGi 標準框架之上，並利用
信息通訊導向之中介軟體 ActiveMQ，而由八個
核心模塊所構成。利用 OSGi 標準框架與
ActiveMQ 擔任通信骨幹，MyHome 的發展平台
提供了一個整合的系統開發與整合的平台，當用
作未來每個家庭網絡技術和家電在智慧家庭應
用上的整合。 
 
關鍵詞：智慧家庭、OSGi 標準框架、信息通訊
導向  
 
Abstract 
 
This paper introduces a framework of smart home; 
OSGi-based MyHome, where important household 
information is all at a finger tip. When combined with an 
integrated database, OSGi-based MyHome provides the 
full functionality to dynamically append, remove, 
configure, and communicate with various kinds of home 
devices, and thus supports the four categories services.  
The major contributions of this paper are to propose an 
event-driven, multi-threaded MyServer, which is based 
on OSGi and composed of eight core modules by a 
message oriented middleware, ActiveMQ. With OSGi 
and ActiveMQ serving as communication backbone, the 
MyHome system thus designed provides developer a 
platform to integrate every home network technology 
and home appliances in the future work. 
 
Keywords — OSGi, MOM, smart home. 
I. Introduction 
A smart home, ideally, provides home services to 
inhabitants inside based on the context patterns 
acquired within the home as well as the inhabitants’ 
preference.  However, introduction of smart home 
installation to general homes is hindered by the facts 
of: lack of service functions, lack of infrastructure to 
support context awareness, and lack of user-friendly 
interface.  In light of this, this three-year sub-project 
proposes to the notion of “MyHome” icon.  With 
infrastructure empowered by technologies of wireless 
sensor network and RFID tag, the proposed MyHome 
icon, internet-accessible to provide an overview of the 
smart home at a finger tip, are to provide four function 
categories of: security, family care, environment and 
inventory tracking.  Regarded as an interactive, 
multitasking software system, MyHome is to be 
designed by UML method: use case analysis for 
operational scenarios, interactions among constituent 
modules, and database design.   
Some preliminary results show successful progress 
on: system development in event publish/subscribe 
paradigm, transaction service of database, and some 
demonstrative operational scenarios of the proposed 
architecture. With access to an internet, a user is 
drawn even closer to: house security, family care, 
environment, and inventory tracking, as the overview 
of the smart home information is all at the finger tip of 
MyHome icon. 
The major contributions of this paper are to 
propose an event-driven, multi-threaded MyServer, 
which is based on OSGi and composed of eight core 
modules by a message oriented middleware, 
ActiveMQ. Due to this design of two channel 
communication, MyHome system can also provides 
people a platform integrating every home network 
technology and human can do anything which 
software can do through home appliances in the future 
work. MyHome introduces MOM to offer a device 
and protocol independent platform which supports 
event-driven Home Automation. The Home 
Automation of MyHome is reliable and fault tolerant. 
The reliable operation which consists of 
delivery-guaranteed messages meets the security 
application requirement. When combined with an 
integrated database, MyServer provides the full 
functionality to dynamically append, remove, 
configure, and communicate with various kinds of 
 3
A. OSGi and service boundless 
Some middleware technologies provide the 
standard way to connect the home gateway to the 
Internet. Open Services Gateway initiative (OSGi) 
provides not only the application programming 
interface (API), but also the deployment infrastructure 
and service management platform. In a smart home 
system, the home gateway may physically connect to 
different kinds of home network and control the 
appliances within them. 
In the Design of MyHome system, we also adopt 
the Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) as a bridge 
between eight modules of MyHome for exchanging 
messages. Therefore, these modules can communicate 
with each other to achieve event-driven system 
design.  
 
Bundle 
Template
context.addServiceListener(
ServiceName);
context.registerService(
ServiceName, Function());
context.getService(ServiceRef);
OSGi Service 
Registry
serviceChanged(Service);
Thread 1
Implemented Function
Thread 2
The same as above
OSGi 
Service
Implemented Function
Exists?
Register Service
Get Service
 
Figure 3 OSGi bundle template of service registration 
 
The OSGi is a set of specifications which defines 
a standardized and component oriented computing 
environment for networked services [8]. Executing in 
a networked device such as an embedded device, an 
OSGi service platform is capable of managing the life 
cycle of the software components in the device.  
Every OSGi service bundle is able to register their 
implemented functions as OSGi service for using by 
other bundle via the API of OSGi Service Registry as 
shown in Figure 3. 
B. Message Oriented Middleware: ActiveMQ 
ActiveMQ is a type of message oriented 
middleware, supporting the exchange of 
general-purpose messages across distributed processes. 
For asynchronous communication, a message 
published to ActiveMQ can be delivered to any 
amount of subscribers in case they subscribe to the 
abstract subject. For synchronous communication, a 
published message is received by only one subscriber. 
Thus, MOM strengthens the capability of 
inter-process communication (IPC) various forms of 
messaging. 
ActiveMQ
Message Oriented 
Middleware
…
MOM 
Template
Publish
Topic 1 Topic 2
Thread 1
Thread 2
The same as above
Callback function
Subscribe
Message
Doing something for this message
Event-driven
Topic = createTopic(Name);
createProducer(Topic);
Producer.send();
createConsumer(Topic);
setMessageListener();
onMessage();
createConnection();
 
Figure 4 Event-driven module template of ActvieMQ 
 
The event-driven module template is illustrated 
in Figure 4, at first, the modules which communicate 
via publish/subscribe mechanism need to create a 
connection with ActiveMQ, then these modules are 
able to publish messages to the topics in ActiveMQ 
and subscribe the topics for receiving messages from 
other modules. While a topic has received the message, 
ActiveMQ would transfer this message to the modules 
which subscribed this topic, and then the modules 
which received message from ActiveMQ will execute 
their callback function for doing some actions for this 
message. 
IV. Design of OSGi-based 
MyHome 
As described in previous sections, these two 
mechanisms have many advantages for developing a 
smart home system, however, the system modules 
which built just based on MOM Template are short of 
function management ability and modules built only 
based on Bundle Template are hard to achieve 
event-driven design 
. 
MOM 
Template
Module 
Template
Bundle 
Template
 
Figure 5 Module template of Two channel communication 
 
It seems that using the ActiveMQ for developing 
an integration platform which built on OSGi 
framework for a smart home is a good solution for 
these problems. The mechanism of one-to-many 
messaging provides an effective way of increasing 
variety of service modules that can be compatible with 
the system and communication via OSGi Service 
Registry provides lot of function management ability. 
Thus, we provide an OSGi-based event-driven 
programming template which combined the 
advantages of event publish/subscribe mechanism and 
OSGi Service Registry as shown in Figure 6, for the 
developers who maintain the MyHome system to 
develop more service modules which are able to 
 5
Figure 9  Process diagram of GUI Module 
 
GUI Module is also responsible for 
communicating with Local GUI. All the operations on 
Local GUI such as manipulations of simulator and 
health-care devices will be published to ActiveMQ by 
GUI Module.  
Figure 9 gives a sample process of receiving 
message from ActiveMQ. An abnormal event which is 
received from ZigBee security device would be 
transferred to the “Security” topic of ActiveMQ by 
Peripheral Module. The GUI Module which 
subscribes this topic will get this event from 
ActiveMQ and then executes its callback functions 
such as displaying this information on remote GUI, 
recording this information into database and notifying 
home members about the abnormal event via SMS by 
using the OSGi services which  registered by other 
service modules. On the other hand, GUI Module 
would pass this message to Rule Base for determining 
whether this event need to trigger other home devices 
or not, if this abnormal event has corresponding 
actions in the Rule Base such as changing the status of 
UPnP light, GUI Module would publishes a message 
to the “UPnP Command” topic for driving UPnP 
Control Module to change the status of device. 
C. MyIcon and My Mobile 
As mentioned in previous section, there are 
various applications and data types in smart home, for 
the remote GUI, it must to integrates these 
information and provides an easy-to-use interface for 
home members. One of the main contributions of 
MyIcon includes the integration of peripherals into the 
core of MyHome through various home networking 
technologies. Finally, the GUI provided by MyIcon 
and MyMobile presents instant feedbacks and 
over-view of the smart home through connect over 
Internet or LAN. For accessing the information that 
integrated in MyServer, we designed the webpage of 
remote GUI by using java applet, PHP and java script. 
Therefore, MyIcon is able to connect to MyServer 
through socket ports by java applet, and thus, it is 
capable of showing the information dynamically. 
 
 
Figure 10  Services on MyIcon 
 
The services that MyIcon provides are showed in 
Figure 10: Environment service is in charge of 
showing a simulated 2D plane of a smart home for 
presenting the real-time condition of the whole house 
and providing the remote home device control, etc. 
Management service provides the hyperlink which 
connects to the Web Console of MyHome for remote 
system management, Health service is used to show 
the historical measuring results of health-care devices 
of every home members, Family service for showing 
the recording of the in-out time of home members, 
Inventory service is used to present the inventory of 
home device such as refrigerator, Security service is 
in charge of showing the recording of abnormal 
events and the GPS service is responsible for 
presenting the GPS location of home members on 
Google Maps. 
V. Comparison 
Here we give a comparison between previous 
version of MyHome, MHAP and OSGi-based 
MyHome. The MOM-based Home Automation 
Platform (MHAP) proposed by Shyan-Ming Yuan is a 
close research to OSGi-based MyHome. But there are 
some differences between these two systems. 
TABLE I.  COMPARISON BETWEEN OSGI-BASED MYHOME 
AND MHAP  
 Previous  
Version of 
MyHome 
MHAP OSGi –based MyHome 
OS Linux platform 
Cross-platfor
m 
Cross-platfor
m 
Core Technology cMsg package 
OSGi 
framework + 
JVM + MOM 
OSGi 
framework + 
JVM + 
ActiveMQ 
Programming 
Language C Language Java Java 
Implementation Ad hoc Standards to follow (OSGi) 
Standards to 
follow 
(OSGi) 
Physical devices 
ZigBee 
security 
devices, 
ZigBee 
RFID 
reader 
UPnP devices, 
INSTEON 
devices, 
X10 devices 
ZigBee 
security 
devices, 
ZigBee RFID 
reader, 
ZigBee 
health-care 
devices, 
IP camera, 
UPnP devices
Management 
tool None None Web console 
Testing tool Simulator None 
Simulator, 
Scenario 
Editor 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利 ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年 10 月 15 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：子計畫二：「我的家」icon：家庭資訊全覽 
計畫主持人：鍾聖倫 
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－011 －100 學門領域：智慧型控制
技術/創作名稱 符合 OSGi 標準框架之智慧家庭應用伺服器 
發明人/創作人 鄧惟中、黃炫諭、林昭源、鍾聖倫 
中文： 
本技術提出一種事件驅動，多線程的智慧家庭服務伺服器：MyServer，此伺
服器是建構在 OSGi 標準框架之上，並利用信息通訊導向之中介軟體
ActiveMQ，而由八個核心模塊所構成。本符合 OSGi 標準框架之 MyHome
平台結合整合的資料庫，能完整地提供：動態地添加、刪除，配置，並與其
他各種家庭設備溝通等四類服務。利用 ActiveMQ 擔任通信骨幹，MyHome
的發展平台提供了一個整合的系統開發與整合的平台，當用作未來每個家庭
網絡技術和家電在智慧家庭應用上的整合。 
 技術說明 英文： 
The technique is an event-driven, multi-threaded MyServer, which is based on 
OSGi and composed of eight core modules by a message oriented middleware, 
ActiveMQ.  When combined with an integrated database, OSGi-based MyHome 
provides the full functionality to dynamically append, remove, configure, and 
communicate with various kinds of home devices.  With OSGi and ActiveMQ 
serving as communication backbone, the MyHome system thus designed
provides developer a platform to integrate every home network technology and
home appliances in the future work. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
數位家庭整合系統開發；資訊家電 
技術特點 
本技術所實現之 MyServer 的特點如下： 
- 符合 OSGi 標準框架 (OSGi-compliant)：可直接與家電資訊大廠所開發的
service bundle 作整合，可加速系統開發、更新與維護 
- 架構在訊息溝通導向的中介軟體 (MOM) 上，透過本技術所提供的
application template，能方便程式開發工程師在應用模組的開發與維護 
推廣及運用的價值 
可推廣至 MHP 或是 UPnP 等數位及資訊家電之系統整合，並作與
智慧家庭相關的加值應用服務系統，像是：居家保全系統、數位錄
影機、家人保健輔助系統等的開發。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 

To allocate tasks to robots, both region-based and task-
based schemes exist. In a region-based scheme, a robot
supervises its designated area, such as a Voronoi region [5].
In a task-based scheme, each task is bid by the robot with
the minimum cost, such as the market-like approach men-
tioned in [6], the neural network approach by [7], and the
use of Hungarian algorithm in [8].
Regarding the coordination strategies, Ahmadi et al. [9]
proposed a negotiation approach that ensures the stability
in environments with dynamic factors, including malfunc-
tioning robots and the addition of new robots.
The main objective of this paper is to design a courier
system in an indoor environment served by a platoon of
robots. We focus on clustering the request points and pre-
positioning robots in the standby locations that are located
in clusters. Also, a coordination strategy for robots dur-
ing task execution is presented. Our approach is capable
of reducing task response time by determining standby lo-
cations of robots and directing robots move along shortest
paths to destinations.
This paper is organized as follows. The multi-robot courier
system is deﬁned in Section 2. Section 3 describes the
proposed dispatching approach. The simulation results of
pre-positioning robots in the building are provided in Sec-
tion 4. A discussion of the proposed approach is given in
Section 5.
2 PROBLEM DEFINITION
A multi-robot courier system is constrained by the cost of
robots so a robot must cover more service requests as the
number of tasks increases. Therefore, A dispatching rule
for multi-robot system to increase the courier efﬁciency is
required.
A full task execution cycle contains two stages, a response
stage and an execution stage. A response stage starts when
the system receives a service request and ends when the
dispatched robot arrives the pickup location, to formally
begins the service. This duration is called the response
time. An execution stage is deﬁned as the transition from a
pickup location to a delivery location, the duration is called
the transportation time. The pickup location and the deliv-
ery location are ﬁxed in the environment. When using ho-
mogeneous robots, a given task has a ﬁxed execution time
no matter which robot serves the task. Therefore, task ex-
ecution efﬁciency can be improved by reducing response
time. For example, Figure 2 is the ﬂoor plan of a building.
In the building, every door is considered a place where ser-
vice requests may occur. A service request requires a robot
to pick up documents and deliver them at a destination to
complete a task. Every request must be served by some
robot.
At any time instant, there may be several tasks and each
task is served by a nearby robot with certain response time.
Since homogeneous robots are deployed, a service request
is best served by the nearest robot and the distance to the
nearest robot can be regarded as the minimal response time.
The goal of this paper is to dispatch robots to execute re-
Figure 2: The workspace of the multi-robot system.
Figure 3: The ﬂowchart for the courier system.
quests with minimal total response time according to Eq. 1:
J = min
k∑
j=1
n∑
i=1
∥∥∥x(j)i − rj
∥∥∥
2
(1)
where J is the minimal total response time, rj is the j-
th robot, and x(j)i is the i-th event point served by thej-th
robot.
3 PROPOSED APPROACH
Our approach proceeds as follows. First, the system clus-
ters service request points and assign each cluster to a spe-
ciﬁc robot. Every robot is pre-positioned in the cluster so
as to minimize the response time. The system receives
new service requests and dispatches some robot to execute
them. While robots execute tasks, a switching strategy is
used to further improve the system performance. Figure 3
shows the ﬂowchart of the system.
We construct shortest paths for robots to move from one
position to another in an environment with obstacles. For
2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009) 1697
occurs, the robot serving the cluster executes the task and
the state of robot is set to busy. Two different deployment
strategies can be adopted to the remaining (n-1) request
points. The ﬁrst one is to divide the remaining request
points into (k − 1) clusters, but it would require complete
recalculation of the environment to redeploy the remaining
robots. Hence, we adopt a second strategy which keeps the
original deployment plan generated by the initial k-means
clustering. While service requests are generated continu-
ously, a queue is maintained for every request point cluster.
A robot is assigned a new task in the cluster where it ﬁn-
ished the previous task. When no request remains, it goes
back to the standby point in that cluster.
To complete a task, a robot may travel between different
clusters. Therefore, two categories of tasks are induced,
single-cluster task, where the pickup location and the deliv-
ery location are in the same cluster, and cross-cluster task
where the pickup location and the delivery location are in
different clusters. When a cross-cluster task occurs, two
robots may move into the same cluster. The robots switch
their managing clusters when a cross-cluster task occurs.
For example, in Figure 5(a), suppose a single-cluster task
occurs in the cluster managed by robot 1. Then, only robot
1 needs to execute the task and the remaining robots stay
at standby locations and wait for service requests. Upon
completing a task, robot 1 will go back to its standby loca-
tion if the cluster queue is empty. In Figure 5(b) where a
cross-cluster task occurs in the cluster managed by robot 1.
When robot 1 executes the task and attempts to move to the
delivery location, robot 2 is notiﬁed to take over robot 1’s
managing cluster. After completing the task, robot 1 stays
in the current cluster, which is its new managing area.
4 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
Suppose there are k robots R ={r1, r2, r3,. . . , rk} re-
sponsible for the tasks issued from n ﬁxed request points
X ={x1, x2, x3,. . . , xn}, and the number of request points
is more than the number of available robots (n > k). Each
task for a robot contains exactly a movement from a pick-
up location xi to a delivery location xj , where i = j. Let
a request point issue task service requests according to a
Poisson distribution, robots have to respond to the tasks is-
sued by request points as soon as possible.
We conduct experiments in a simulated ﬂoor plan with 10
request points, shown in Figure 6. 3 robots are deployed
to accomplish 1000 tasks. Every request point generates
requests at the average frequency of every 100 time units.
The response time to every task is recorded and we evaluate
the performance by the pre-position approach. The simu-
lated ﬂoor plan is generated in an area of 200× 200 square
units. The request points are created at random along the
wall, generally representing doors of elevators, stairways,
ofﬁces, and laboratories in the environment. The distribu-
tion of the 10 request points is shown in Figure 7(a). The
initial seeds of clustering is shown in Figure 7(b). Fig-
ure 7(c) shows the centroids of clusters and Figure 7(d)
shows the ﬁnal standby locations of robots. Robots exe-
cute service requests according to the proposed coordina-
tion rules. Table 1 shows the total travel distance of robots
Figure 6: The work space of the courier system.
Table 1: The traveling distance of the multi-robot
Approach Conﬁguration
distance (J)
Total pick-up
distance
Without Pre-position 1331.3 424600
Pre-position by k-means 593.29 213660
Pre-position by k-means
and Steiner tree
570.22 207760
in three pre-positioning approaches. The ﬁrst approach is
to randomly assign free robots in the work space. The sec-
ond and the third approaches use pre-positioings shown in
Figure 7(c) and Figure 7(d).
The conﬁguration distance is deﬁned as the total distance
of robots to its managed request points in a conﬁguration.
The Total pick-up distance is deﬁned as the travel distance
for all robots to serve all requests. From the experiments,
we observe that pre-position by combining k-means with
Steiner trees generates the best performance for robots.
The experiment results using different number of robots
and request points are shown in Table 2. The reﬁned k-
means approach results in better performance in terms of
total response time to all tasks. The performance improve-
ment over the random deployment approach and the sim-
ple k-means pre-positioning approach are 62% and 3%, re-
spectively.
5 Discussion and Future Work
In this paper, a multi-robot dispatching method is devel-
oped to increase the efﬁciency of a multi-robot system in
a constrained environment. Our approach contains a task-
allocation method and a switching strategy. When divid-
ing request points into clusters, the shortest path distances
is used in the simple k−-means algorithm. Robots are
pre-positioned at chosen standby locations by considering
Steiner tree properties in the environments. To further re-
duce the total response time for tasks, robots switch their
designated clusters when robots enter other’s territory. The
performance of the proposed approach is evaluated through
simulations. The proposed approach outperforms the naive
random assignment approach by 62% on average.
Compared with the exact solution in [3], which requires
2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009) 1699
REFERENCES
[1] R. Siegwart and I. R. Nourbakhsh, Introduction to Au-
tonomous Mobile Robots. Bradford Book, 2004.
[2] M. de Berg, M. van Kreveld, M. Overmars, and
O. Schwarzkopf, Computational Geometry. Springer,
February 2000.
[3] L. M. Hiatt and R. G. Simmons, “Pre-positioning assets to
increase execution efﬁciency,” in ICRA, 2007, pp. 324–329.
[4] H. Surmann and A. Morales, “Scheduling tasks to a team of
autonomous mobile service robots in indoor enviroments,”
vol. 8, no. 8, pp. 808–832, 2002.
[5] K. Kamali, D. Ventura, A. Garga, and S. R. T. Kumara, “Ge-
ometric task decomposition in a multi-agent environment,”
Applied Artiﬁcial Intelligence, vol. 20, no. 5, pp. 437–456,
2006.
[6] Y. Jin, A. Minai, and M. Polycarpou, “Cooperative real-
time search and task allocation in uav teams,” Decision
and Control, 2003. Proceedings. 42nd IEEE Conference on,
vol. 1, pp. 7–12 Vol.1, Dec. 2003.
[7] S. Zhu, A.; Yang, “A neural network approach to dynamic
task assignment of multirobots,” Neural Networks, IEEE
Transactions on, vol. 17, no. 5, pp. 1278–1287, Sept. 2006.
[8] L.-N. Zu, Y.-T. Tian, J.-C. Fu, and J.-F. Liu, “Algorithm
of task-allocation based on realizing at the lowest cost in
multimobile robot system,” Machine Learning and Cyber-
netics, 2004. Proceedings of 2004 International Conference
on, vol. 1, pp. 152–156 vol.1, Aug. 2004.
[9] P. Ahmadi, M.; Stone, “A multi-robot system for continu-
ous area sweeping tasks,” Robotics and Automation, 2006.
ICRA 2006. Proceedings 2006 IEEE International Confer-
ence on, pp. 1724–1729, May 15-19, 2006.
[10] A. K. Jain, M. N. Murty, and P. J. Flynn, “Data clustering: a
review,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 264–
323, 1999.
[11] G. A. Marcoulides, “Discovering knowledge in data: an in-
troduction to data mining. daniel t. larose,” Journal of the
American Statistical Association, vol. 100, pp. 1465–1465,
December 2005.
[12] J. B. MacQueen, “Some methods for classiﬁcation and
analysis of multivariate observations,” in Proc. of the ﬁfth
Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Prob-
ability, L. M. L. Cam and J. Neyman, Eds., vol. 1. Uni-
versity of California Press, 1967, pp. 281–297.
[13] J. Chen, R. Ching, and Y. Lin, “An extended study of the
k-means algorithm for data clustering and its applications,”
Journal of the Operational Research Society, vol. 55, no. 9,
pp. 976–987, 2004.
[14] R. O. Duda, P. E. Hart, and D. G. Stork, Pattern Classiﬁca-
tion (2nd Edition). Wiley-Interscience, November 2000.
[15] T. Kanungo, D. M. Mount, N. S. Netanyahu, C. D. Pi-
atko, R. Silverman, and A. Y. Wu, “An efﬁcient k-means
clustering algorithm: Analysis and implementation,” IEEE
Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence,
vol. 24, no. 7, pp. 881–892, 2002.
[16] J. M. Pen˜a, J. A. Lozano, and P. Larran˜aga, “An empirical
comparison of four initialization methods for the k-means
algorithm,” Pattern Recognition Letters, vol. 20, no. 10, pp.
1027–1040, 1999.
[17] M. R. Anderberg, Cluster analysis for applications. Prob-
ability and Mathematical Statistics, New York: Academic
Press, 1973, 1973.
[18] F. K. Hwang, D. S. Richards, and P. Winter, The Steiner
Tree Problem. Amsterdam, Netherlands: North-Holland,
1992, vol. 53.
[19] P. Winter and M. Zachariasen, “Euclidean Steiner Mini-
mum Trees: An Improved Exact Algorithm,” Networks,
vol. 30, pp. 149–166, 1997.
2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009) 1701
  
1 INTRODUCTION 
In order to study the efficiency of the multi-robot system 
with different dispatching policies [1], this paper presents 
the design and implementation of an image-based inte-
gration platform for a multi-robot system, where robots are 
essentially semi-autonomous and a central computer dis-
tributes assignments to each robot. To dispatch mul-
ti-robots in real-time for transportation assignment, the 
proposed integration platform utilizes image process 
technique to detect the current positions of robots relative 
to transportation destination; to design a motion trajectory 
for each robot in carrying transportation assignment to its 
destination smoothly. In addition, collision avoidance 
strategy, while robots are moving, is designed based on 
global observation of the whole transportation system. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Main steps 
and requirement of real-time dispatching are introduced in 
Section 2. Section 3 presents the integration platform, 
which includes software architecture with a miniature 
working space for transportation simulation. Simulation 
results of different dispatching policies, conducted on the 
aforementioned platform, are provided in Section 4 before 
a brief discussion and future work given in Section 5. 
2 REAL-TIME DISPATCHING 
Three processes are employed in this image-based dis-
patching system. The image process is to obtain global 
information [2] regarding the current positions of robots 
and requesting points. Then, a motion trajectory planning 
                                                           
This work is supported in part by National Science Council, Taiwan 
under Grant NSC 96-2221-E-011-125 and in part by the Ministry of 
Education, Taiwan under Grant MOE 96-E-01-297 
process [3][4][5] is to guide a robot to reach its assigned 
destination with the explicit consideration given to colli-
sion avoidance [6]. 
2.1  Image Processing 
The image process is to obtain global information re-
garding the robots and requesting points. This information 
is critical for later motion trajectory planning and collision 
avoidance. There are two procedures involved in the image 
process: the initial detection procedure and the subsequent 
robot tracking procedure. The initial detection is to obtain 
the initial configuration information, as shown in Fig 1, 
including the number, positions and identifications of the 
robots, as well as of requesting points in the system. 
 
Fig 1. The regions of interest obtained from initial detection procedure. 
 
After the initial detection procedure, the dispatching sys-
tem keeps track of the most update locations of robots 
during the dispatching operation. In doing so, it would be 
redundant to scan the whole image to update the most 
recent position of each robot. Instead, given the maximum 
speed of a robot, its next position is bound to be within a 
certain area. Accordingly, we develop a tracking proce-
dure to reduce the search area of the robot, thus increasing 
 
An Image-Based Integration System for Real-Time Dispatching of Multi-Robots
Li-Che Chen1, Yu Fu1, Tien-Ruey Hsiang2,ʳSheng-Luen Chung1 
1. Department of Electrical Engineering,  
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 
E-mail: ̎M9407202ʿʳ˗ˌˇ˃ˊ˅˃˄ʿʳ̆˿˶˻̈́˺̐@mail.ntust.edu.tw  
2. Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering,  
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 
E-mail: trhsiang@mail.ntust.edu.tw 
 
Abstract: The purpose of this paper is to design an image-based platform for real-time dispatching of multi-robots, in the 
context of, for example, supporting a courier transportation system.  With this integration platform, we are able to 
compare efficiencies of different dispatching policies.  With the global information regarding the robots and pick-up 
points available from the image process, this real-time dispatching platform is capable of detecting current positions of 
robots and their relative positions to the destination, of planning online motion trajectories for each robot to reach its 
destination smoothly, and of maintaining collision avoidance while robots are moving. Different dispatching strategies, 
as a combination of pre-positioning of robots and swapping strategies of responsible zones for individual robots in 
transportation operation, are conducted on a miniature implementation platform to simulate corresponding performance 
of response time. 
Key Words: Multi-Robot System, Dispatching System 
3085978-1-4244-2723-9/09/$25.00 c© 2009 IEEE
  
moving robot and direction of the vector from this moving 
robot to the idle robot. If the distance d is less than a certain 
value, indicating a potential risk of collision, then the 
moving robot will be directed to “detour” from the straight 
line that would otherwise lead into collision: move com-
mand issued to the moving robots is based on the combi-
nation of current distance d and angle . 
 
Fig 6. Collision avoidance with another moving robot 
 
On the other hand, if the robot is moving toward another 
moving robot, as shown in Fig 6, a different rule applies. 
Let a  denote the vector of the first robot to its destination; 
b

, the vector from the first robot to the second one; c , the 
vector of the second robot to its destination.  In addition, 
let d be the distance between these two robots;  the angle 
between the direction of the first robot to its destination 
and the direction from the first robot to the second robot; 
and  the angle between the vector of the second robot to 
its destination to the direction from the second robot to the 
first robot. If the distance d is less than a certain value, then 
the dispatching host will initiate the second mode of col-
lision avoidance policy: one robot has to stop while letting 
the other keeps moving.  
The resolution rule is defined as followed: if the angle  
is less than , meaning that the other robot is closer than it 
to the intersection of the two moving trajectories; subse-
quently, the robot associated with smaller angle has to stop 
until the other robot has moved out the potential collision 
region.  
2.4 Coordination strategy 
If there is only one robot in the whole dispatching system, 
then, when a robot executes a task, the state of the robot 
will be set as “busy,” and new task will be saved in the 
service queue. After the robot accomplishes its current 
task, it will go to execute the new task directly.  If the 
cluster queue is empty, the robot will go back to the 
standby position. 
When the number of tasks increases, a multi-robot sys-
tem is more efficient; however, construction of such a 
multi-robot system is constrained by the cost of robots; as 
a result, each robots in general has to cover more service 
requests.  For the case of multi-robots, it is more efficient 
to group several neighboring pick-up points as a cluster, 
and assign one robot, sitting in a pre-arranged standby 
point, to take care transportation requests from that cluster.  
More often than not, the pick-up point and the destination 
point may not be in the same cluster, meaning inter-cluster 
transportation.  A robot may serve permanently to a par-
ticular cluster, or it can be dynamically preferably assigned 
to a new cluster.  For the later case, when an inter-cluster 
transportation request occurs, switching policy is required: 
the robot making transportation to a new cluster will stay 
there, while the original robot in charge will move to and 
take charge of the cluster left by the transporting robot. 
The idea of the proposed strategy is to fill the vacancy 
when the robot is absent from the sub-region. The property 
can be extended and applied to more clusters case and the 
switch distance is the minimum. 
The efficiencies associated with the cases of with and 
without switching strategy are now compared.  
Assume there is a task requiring a robot to move from 
point P to point Q, as shown in Figure 7, where o denotes a 
requesting point, x denotes a standby position, the solid 
line denotes the task response path from standby point to 
pick-up point, and the task execution path, from point P to 
point Q, the dense dot line from Q to S, and from S to R, 
denotes the path incurred by the cluster switching, and the 
parse dash line denotes the returning path when switching 
policy is not enforced.  
In the case with switching policy, the total distance of 
the task execution is RP PQ QS SR+ + + . In the case 
without switching policy, the robot has to come back its 
original standby position R after accomplishing the task at 
Q, so that the total distance of the executing task is 
RP PQ QR+ + . According to the triangle inequali-
ty, QR QS SR< + ; the total traveling distance the former 
(with) is longer than that of the later (without).  However, 
regarding the efficiency of a dispatching system, the re-
sponse time, measured by the waiting time of a requesting 
point has to be considered. 
 
Fig 7. The path of the task execution 
 
In the case with switching policy, when robot A moves 
from point P to point Q, robot B that up to now takes 
charge of the cluster of A’s destination also moves from 
point S to point R simultaneously, and then these two ro-
bots switch the responsible clusters. The total running time 
is R P P Q Q ST T T→ → →+ + . In contrast, for the case without 
switching, because of no simultaneous movement in-
volved, the total running time is R P P Q Q RT T T→ → →+ + . 
Because QR  is a multi-cluster segment and QS  is a sin-
gle-cluster segment, distance QR  is greater than that of 
QS . In other words, the running time Q RT →  is greater than 
that of Q ST → . Hence, the system with switching policy can 
2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009) 3087
  
 
Fig 11. Software architecture of the image-based dispatching system 
 
3.2 Functional Block Diagram 
In order to control the multi-robot system, the functional 
block diagram of the system is shown in Figure 12.  
 
Fig 12. The functional block diagram of the multi-robot system 
 
The procedure of practical implementation of the mul-
ti-robot dispatching system is explained as follows: 
(1) At first, the overhead camera captures the global 
image of the robot environment, shown in Figure 13, 
and the system identifies each robot and the positions 
of requesting points and robots by image processing. 
(2) The standby position of each robot is calculated by 
the k-means algorithm, shown in Figure 14, where  
denotes a requesting point and x denotes a standby 
position for a robot. 
(3) A task schedule is generated based on Poisson dis-
tribution. The schedule decides when, what a task 
will occur.  The host computer will then decide the 
dispatching in response to each newly generated 
tasks, and sends motion command to assigned robot 
through Bluetooth module. 
(4) Once the robots receive the Bluetooth signal, it will 
execute the requested movement. The system then 
obtains real-time information of robots’ position by 
image tracking procedure. 
(5) If the task is an inter-cluster service, the robots will 
switch their managing cluster according to switching 
strategy. 
(6) Repeat step 3 until all the tasks are finished. 
 
 
Fig 13. The vision of the camera 
 
 
Fig 14. The clustering result by the k-means algorithm 
4 EXPERIMENTS ON DIFFERENT 
DISPATCHING STRATEGIES 
The image-based integration platform for multi-robot 
system is designed and implemented to compare perfor-
mance of different dispatching policies regarding: 
pre-position and switching.   In particular, for pre-position 
approach, the deployment of robot considers the distance 
between robots and requesting points by k-means algo-
rithm so as to reduce the tasks response time.  
  In the design courier system, there are eight fixed re-
questing points and three robots to serve the service re-
quests on our platform, shown in Figure 10. Every robot 
moves to its destination with the proposed motion trajec-
tory planning and collision avoidance policy.  In our 
courier system, a service request is issued by a requesting 
point with a certain frequency. The distribution of the task 
service is modeled by Poisson distribution  
In order to demonstrate the efficiency of the 
pre-position approach and switching strategy for dis-
patching robots in practice, three different approaches are 
studied. The first one is task execution without 
pre-position and without switching. The second one is task 
execution with pre-position but without switching. The 
third is task execution with pre-position and with switch-
ing policy. 
In the first approach, a robot is randomly located on the 
working space and waits for new task requests. No 
switching occurs even if multi-cluster tasks occur. Hence, 
2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009) 3089
рৢ୯ሞᏢೌ཮᝼Јளൔ֋
ीฝጓဦ NSC 97-2221-E-011-100 
ीฝӜᆀ ඵችࠠৎ৥ޑ໒ว – ηीฝΒǺȨךޑৎȩiconǺৎ৥ၗૻӄំ
р୯Γ঩ۉӜ
୍ܺᐒᜢϷᙍᆀ
ۉӜ: ׵ےউ
୍ܺᐒᜢϷᙍᆀ: Ѡ᡼ࣽמεᏢႝᐒسറγғ
཮᝼ਔ໔Ӧᗺ
ਔ໔: 2009ԃ 6Д 17~19В
Ӧᗺ: ύ୯εഌਦ݅ ਦξεଚ۫
཮᝼Ӝᆀ
ύЎ: 2009 ύ୯௓ڋᆶ،฼཮᝼
मЎ: 2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (2009 CCDC) 
ว߄ፕЎᚒҞ Modeling of automobile air conditioning systems 
ᆶ཮Јள
ҁΓว߄ޑፕЎӵࡕ।܌ҢǴࢂឦܭًҔޜፓ༟ኳޑ߃؁ԋ݀Ƕ྽ਔ೏ᗎԿȨControl
Applicationȩޑϩ໨૸ፕύǶ཮᝼ၸำύҁΓԖᐒ཮ᆶࠖᅟᔭπ཰εᏢ Deng-Qing Cao
௲௤૸ፕҁΓޑࣴزԋ݀Ǵдޑࣴزख़ᗺ๱ख़ܭଭၲ௓ڋǴЬा๱ख़ܭଭၲᙯೲᆶӵՖ
ᆢ࡭ଯೲၮᙯਔޑᛙۓࡋǶќѦΨᆶٰԾՋӼޑࣴزғ૸ፕӵՖפډඔॊޜ໔ྕྒྷࡋޑ
ኳࠠǴόӕܭҁΓޑًҔޜፓǴдЬाࢂӧ௖૸ӵՖ௓ڋεኴޜፓǴӧന࿯࣪ૈྍޑ߻
ගϐΠǴזೲफ़ե܊໔ྕࡋǶќѦǴӧд௖૸ޑεኴޜፓኳࠠύǴԖஒਔ໔ۯᒨ(time delay)
๏Եቾ຾ѐǴԶҁΓ૸ፕޑً܊ࢂឦܭλޜ໔Ǵ܌аǴёаஒਔ໔ۯᒨޑ೽ҽ۹ౣόीǶ
  
2 Characterization of an automobile HVAC 
system 
This section first examines the construct of an automobile 
air-conditioning.  Special emphasis is elaborated on the 
working mechanism of various processes during a 
complete air-conditioning circulation cycle.  Enthalpy 
changes corresponding to the different processes within a 
circulation cycle, especially their relation to the three 
control variables of: fresh air ratio, hot air mix ratio, and air 
flow rate, are explained in the context of thermal 
equilibrium state.   
2.1 Automobile air-condition system 
A typical automobile air-conditioning system composed of 
air-conditioning equipment, a passenger compartment, 
sensors, and an automobile temperature controller (ATC).   
 
Fig. 1 the equipments of automobile air-conditioning system 
In order to maintain the climate in the car comfortable to 
passengers within the car compartment, three controls are 
installed: The first is the outside air intake control β  
ruling the percentage of fresh air and total air.  The second 
is air mixing control α whose purpose is to get sT  by 
adjusting the air damper accordingly to mix heater 
temperature HT  with apparatus dew point temperature ET .  
The last one is the air mass control that am  ( seckg ) will 
alter automatically with several fan speed levels, 
depending on the degree of the thermal distribution behind 
the car compartment.  In practice, β  takes value of either 
0.3 or 0.7; α  ranges from 0 (no mix with hot air) to 1 (full 
percentage of hot air); and air flow rate am  is variable air 
amount. 
To better illustrate the air-conditioning circulation process, 
Fig. 1 sketches a typical automobile air-conditioning 
system which is composed of a refrigeration system above 
and an air distribution system below.  Six important 
positions during the air-conditioning process are 
particularly identified: 
O: the source of outside fresh air suffering from the 
changeable weather. 
M: the mixed air with outside air and re-circulated air 
E:  the chilled air from evaporator 
H: the hot air from heater sourced from a heat exchange 
of an engine 
S:  the supplying air prepared to enter the passenger 
compartment 
R:  the circulated air returned from the conditioned 
compartment 
The refrigeration system chiefly consists of the following 
four components: an evaporator, a compressor, a 
condenser, and an expansion valve.  The output of the 
evaporator (position E) is the chilled air that is prepared to 
mix with the hot air (position H) to obtain a suitable 
supplying air.  The conditioned air, as the input of air 
distribution system, will then be supplied to the 
compartment.  The supplying air will alter the temperature 
of the compartment, which is also subject to external 
disturbances such as the radiation of the sun and the 
convection around the passenger compartment.  Under the 
influence of heat exchange, the resultant cooling effect 
causing at the air distribution system is the temperature 
difference between outlet (position S) and inlet air 
(position M).   
2.2 Enthalpy 
Enthalpy is used to measure the heat content of substances.  
Het content can be divided into sensible heat and latent 
heat: roughly speaking, sensible heat reflects the 
temperature difference in the air; latent heat reflects the 
humidity change of the moisture in the air.  To be more 
precise, according to ASHRAE fundamental handbook [4], 
the specific enthalpy of moist air h  ( kJ kg ) equals to the 
sum of specific enthalpy of dir air dah  and water vapor vh , 
as shown in (1).   
( )1.006 2501 1.805
da vh h h
T T
ω
ω
= + ×
= + +
  (1)
where ω  is humidity ratio ( kg kg ). 
We now determine the amount of exchanged heat of each 
process during a full cycle of air-conditioning circulation. 
Based on the analysis here, we will derive the dynamics of 
temperature and humidity of the air in the car compartment 
in the next section.  
The framework of the air distribution system, show as the 
solid rectangular box in Fig. 1, is redrawn in Fig. 2.   
 
Fig. 2 air distribution system 
The specific enthalpy difference hΔ  of the mixed air 
provided by the air-conditioning equipments is the specific 
enthalpy change between position M and position S shown 
in Fig. 2, which can be written as equation (2).   
986 2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009)
  
 
Fig. 4 the air-conditioning analysis of Fig. 2 on the psychrometric chart 
 
 
Fig. 5 a schematic diagram for heat transfer balance 
Suppose that the air-conditioning circulation reaches an 
equilibrium, or steady-state condition, as show in Fig. 5.  
Given that the product of air flow rate and the difference of 
specific enthalpy equals to power, we conclude that the 
sensible, latent, and total power capacities of the 
circulation cycle are proportional to the differences in 
temperature, humidity ratio, and specific enthalpy, shown 
in Fig. 5.  In particular, for sensible heat, the extracted 
sensible heat (TSH) by eQ  equals to the total sensible heat 
gains by roomQ : sensible heater (SH), room (RSH), and 
ventilation (OSH), as expressed in (5).  Similarly, as shown 
in (6), the extracted latent heat (TLH) equals to the sum of 
latent heat gains from room (RLH) and ventilation (OLH).  
Table 1 shows their corresponding definitions.   
TSH SH RSH OSH= + +  (5)
TLH RLH OLH= +  (6)
At equilibrium point, after a complete circulation, the 
temperature RT and humidity Rω  in the car compartment 
will remain the same. However, variations on temperature 
RT and humidity Rω  will occur, if such equilibrium state 
is not attained: imbalance between the cooling capacity 
eQ and heat gains roomQ  on either or both of sensible and 
latent heat gains. 
Table 1 the definitions of symbols in Fig. 5 
item Description scale 
TSH total extracted 
sensible heat 
( )
( )
M Ea
M Ea p
ASHF m h h
m c TT
× −
= −


 
TLH total extracted 
latent heat ( ) ( )
( )
1 M Ea
M Ea fg
ASHF m h h
m h ω ω
− × −
= −


 
RSH room sensible heat 
roomRSHF Q×   
RLH room latent heat ( )1 roomRSHF Q− ×   
OSH sensible heat gain 
from ventilation ( )
( )
a p M R
a p O R
m c T T
m c T Tβ
−
= −


 
OLH latent heat gain 
from ventilation ( )
( )
a fg M R
a fg O R
m h
m h
ω ω
β ω ω
−
= −


 
SH sensible heat gain 
from heater ( )
( )
a p S E
a p H E
m c T T
m c T Tα
−
= −


 
where pc  is specific heat capacity of air 
0 )(kJ kg C , fgh  
is specific enthalpy of vapor at saturation ( kJ kg ) 
 
To facilitate our discussion, let’s assume that the total 
extracted sensible heat (TSH) exceeds that of the sensible 
heat gains, i.e., TSH SH RSH OSH> + + , then RT  will 
decrease.  On the other hand, if the total extracted latent 
heat (TSL) is more than that of latent heat gain, then Rω  
will decrease.  To sum up, the variation of RT  can be 
obtained from the relationship of sensible heat exchange, 
regardless of the latent heat exchange.  Similarly, the 
988 2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009)
  
 
(a) simulation result (b) car compartment temperature RT  (c) humidity ratio Rω  
 
(d) specific enthalpy Rh  (e) total heat exchange (f) sensible heat exchange 
Fig. 6 the simulation results for equation (9) 
 
(a) simulation result (b) car compartment temperature RT  (c) sensible heat exchange 
Fig. 7 the simulation results for equation (10) 
5 Conclusion 
The contribution of this work is to provide a framework for 
automobile air-conditioning analysis and simulation.  With 
the temperature and humidity dynamics derived, effects of 
air conditioning under different control policies can be 
simulated in the proposed simulation environment and 
compared directly on psychrometric chart.  Future work is 
to find an effective control strategy that will bring an 
arbitrary (temperature, humidity) state of the air in the car 
compartment to a desirable comfortable zone.  In 
particular, when the car compartment temperature RT  is 
not equal to the desired setting temperature SST , the 
difference translates into an extra cooling load QΔ   on the 
system.   
REFERENCES 
[1] T. Tabe, K. Matsui, T. Kakehi, and M. Ohba, Automotive climate 
control, IEEE Contorl Systems Magazine, Vol. 6, No. 5, 20-24, Oct. 
1986. 
[2] C. Ghiaus, A. Chicinas, and C. Inard, Grey-box identification of 
air-handling unit elements, Control Engineering Practive, Vol. 15, 
No. 4, 421-433, 2007. 
[3] C.-M. Chu, T.-L. Jong, and Y.-W. Huang, A study of thermal 
comfort control using least enthalpy estimator on HVAC system, 
Proceeding of the American Control Conference, Vol. 5, 
3665-3670, 2005. 
[4] ASHRAE, ASHRAE Handbook-Fundamentals, Atlanta American 
Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers, 
Inc., 2005. 
990 2009 Chinese Control and Decision Conference (CCDC 2009)
Track1 Track2 Track3 Track4 Track5 Track6 Track7 Track8 Track9 Track10 Track11 Track12
Room01 Room02 Room03 Room04 Room05 Room06 Room07 Room08 Room09 Room10 Room11 Room12
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA01
Robust &
H-infinity
Control I
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA02
Optimal control
and optimization
 III
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA03
Identification
and estimation
II
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA04
Chaotic
Nonlinear
Systems
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA05
Decision-
making Theory
II
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA06
Intelligent
Network
Control System
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA07
Fault Detection
 and Diagnosis
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA08
Fuzzy
systems
 III
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA09
Motion
Control
III
10:20-12:20
Regular
Session
ThA10
Control
Applications
 III
10:20-12:20
Invited
 Session
ThA11
Iterative Learning
Control &
Its Applications
10:20-12:20
Interactive
Session
ThAIS
-1,2,3,4
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB01
Robust and
 H-infinity
control
II
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB02
Optimal Control
and
Optimization
 IV
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB03
Identification
and Estimation
III
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB04
Control of
Nonlinear
Systems
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB05
Decision-
making Theory
II
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB06
Research on
Networked
Control System
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB07
Neural
 Networks
I
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB08
Robot
 Control
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB09
Modeling, Control
and Simulations
 of Biological systems
I
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB10
Control
Applications
IV
13:30-15:30
Regular
Session
ThB11
Man-machine
 Interactions
 and Automation
13:30-15:30
Interactive
Session
ThBIS
-1,2,3,4
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC01
Robust and H-
infinity control
III
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC02
Optimal Control
and
Optimization
 V
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC03
Identification
and Estimation
IV
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC04
Nonlinear
Control of
Nonlinear
Systems
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC05
Decision-
making
Method
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC06
Production
Planning and
Scheduling
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC07
Neural
networks
II
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC08
Mobile
Robotics
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC09
Modeling, control and
simulations of
biological systems II
15:50-17:50
Regular
Session
ThC10
Control
Applications
and Control
Engineering
Education
15:50-17:50
Invited
Session
ThC11
Intelligent Models
& Algorithms for
Optimization
Problem
15:50-17:50
Interactive
Session
ThCIS
-1,2,3,5
   13:30-14:30 Semi-PlenaryLecture 7  Parametric Control Systems Design with Application in Missle Attitude Control--by Prof.Guang-Ren Duan          Room13
   14:30-15:30  Semi-PlenaryLecture 8  Recent Advances on Stochastic Distribution Control: Probability Density Function Control--by Prof.Hong Wang   Room13
2009 CCDC Technical Program Thursday June 18, 2009
12:30-13:30 Lunch
08:00-09:00    Plenary Lecture 3
"Cloud Simulation Platform" -----A New Networked Modeling & Simulation Platform Based on the Concept of Cloud Computing--by Prof.Bohu Li, Beihang University
09:00-10:00    Plenary Lecture 4
Randomly Switching Systems: Models, Analysis, and Applications--by Prof.Gang George Yin, College of Liberal Arts & Sciences Wayne State University
   10:20-11:20  Semi-PlenaryLecture 5   Recent Developments in Nonsmooth Feedback Control of Nonlinear Systemsby--by Prof.Wei Lin                    Room13
   11:20-12:20  Semi-PlenaryLecture 6  Batch Process Control from Practice to 2D Model Predictive Control--by Prof.Furong Gao                                  Room13
