2的能量，僅是太陽能源 的廿二億分之一，這些廿二億分之一能源可供 全人類使用一萬七
千五百倍的量，除了 架設的設施及運作成本外，太陽能可以說是全 球最乾淨、無污染且
用不完的能源。況且台灣位於熱帶區，夏天陽光強烈，若以此為 ORC 的熱源，雖然效率
可能較低，但這是一種無污染，不用熱源成本的好方法。相關有機朗肯循環(Organic
Rankine Cycle, ORC)的研究，本研究團隊近年來也有相當的心得[1~3]。
ORC 於海洋溫差發電或太陽能發電系統是由蒸發器、渦輪機、發電機、凝結器、工
作流體泵浦、熱交換器等組成，如圖 1所示。選擇適合其溫度範圍的工作流體流入其蒸發
器，並導入高溫熱源，使工作流體在熱交換器中因受高溫加熱而沸騰，其蒸汽經由連接
管路送到渦輪機並使其轉動，並進而帶動連接的發電機發電。另方面，自渦輪機溢出的
蒸汽則匯入凝結器，此時並導入低溫區，這些蒸汽因而冷卻成液態的工作流體而再次的
由泵浦重新送至蒸發器。這樣的操作循環週而復始不斷進行。只要表、深層海水間存有
溫差，太陽的照射能如此強烈，即能經由上述循環從海水中不斷獲得電力。
Pump
Waste Heat
Boiler
Expander
Condenser
Waste Heat
Inlet
Heat
Rejection
1
2
3
4
圖 1、有機朗肯循環示意圖
至於上述所提到的熱交換器，其材料的選擇是相當的重要，以海洋溫差發電為例，
由[4]可知，材料遭受海洋的腐蝕相當嚴重，所以國內許多海洋建築物如跨海大橋、發電
廠的冷凝管等均需考慮海洋的腐蝕。熱交換器的塑膠材質通常為 PPS、ABS、PA、
PVC，而塑膠熱交換器的優點有：較高抗腐蝕性、抗化學性。重量輕、成本低、壽命長。
但也有熱傳係數低、不耐高溫、強度較小等缺點。
二、 工作流體與選擇
由於有機工作流體的適用性較低，因此選擇工作流體之前需對各種工作流體的性質
有深入的了解，來選擇最適當之工作流體。一些工作流體性質如表一所示，另外由[5-6]
可知，在有機朗肯循環中，工作流體的熱物理性質和化學性質，不僅會影響系統效率的
變化，同時對系統運轉時的穩定性與安全性，影響都相當地大。所以工作流體的選擇，
是非常重要的工作。
表一、工作流體之基本熱力性質
Working fluid R-11 R-12 R-152a R-500 R-502
流體分類 濕流體 濕流體 濕流體 濕流體 濕流體
渦輪機出口狀態 液汽共存 液汽共存液汽共存液汽共存液汽共存
4圖 2a、濕流體之物理性質（比熱與熱導性） 圖 2b、濕流體之物理性質（潛熱與比容）
圖 2c、乾流體之物理性質(比熱與熱導性) 圖 2d、乾流體之物理性質(潛熱與比容)
圖 2、ORC系統使用各類工作流體時，溫度與流體物理性質之間的關係
三、 數學分析模式：
以下的數學模式將探討應用 ORC 於再生能源的熱力分析。觀察其不同之工作流體對
T-s 圖的差異。如圖 3 所示，依據工作流體之飽和蒸汽曲線斜率為乾流體、等熵流體與濕
流體，且此數學模式的設定分別為案例一為海水溫差及案例二為太陽能作熱力分析來探
討。
另外要說明的是，在進行以下數學模式的分析與計算時，並不考慮蒸發器、冷凝器以
及管路之中，因流體相變化以及流體與管壁間之磨擦所造成之壓力降等因素。圖 4則是在
6四、 Results and Discussion
A computer program employing MATHCAD was developed to simulate the thermodynamic
performance of the working fluids under various boundary conditions. The overall flow diagram
is shown in Fig. 5. 在 ORC系統裡，如圖 4所示，當渦輪機入口處設定為狀態 3時，即為
飽和區或過熱區。由[7~8]得知，對一相同的工作流體而言，當熱源固定時，效率會隨著
渦輪機進口壓力的增加而提升。明顯地，當狀態 3在過熱區時對於系統效率而言，是不理
想的；且過熱時的蒸發器所需的材質成本比在飽和區時貴得多；再者氣體的熱傳效果較
差，加上熱量的損失，導致在過熱區所要達到預定的溫度，所需的熱源也要比飽和區來
得高。
基於這些理由，故以下之研究方向將渦輪機入口處設定為飽和蒸汽狀態，同時選擇
上述之十一種流體來搭配 ORC 系統。本研究將分成海洋溫差與太陽能熱源為兩案例來進
行熱力分析。
Fig. 5計算 ORC系統效率之Mathcad流程
4.1案例一：OTEC
此案例是利用表、深層海水間存在的溫度差來供給 ORC 系統熱源。根據上述之分
析，在工作流體的選擇方面，可依據工作流體的飽和曲線特性與不同的渦輪機入口溫
度，其流體的效率趨勢產生的交點來作為研究的依據。其操作條件為，升壓泵入口溫度
程式開始
選擇所用之
案例及工作
流體
輸入必須之狀態條
件
求出各點狀態並計
算效率
是否做完所有
參數變化
是
利用Excel繪製所得
結果
記錄輸出結果及數
據
改變參數
否
程式結束
8圖 7 則是說明當渦輪機入口溫度改變時，對不同濕流體的效率趨勢。從各工作流體
之飽和曲線觀察可以發現，R-11與 R-12是近似等熵的濕流體，亦即飽和蒸汽曲線斜率趨
近於無窮大。在實際運轉測試時，倘若能控制得宜，渦輪機出口處工作流體的狀態會落
在飽和曲線上。此種流體有兩種好處，一是不會在等熵膨脹過程中發生液滴的現象；另
一是不需加裝再生器來減少冷凝器的負擔。在經過熱力分析後，明顯地可以發現此種工
作流體的效率較佳。
由於工作流體的性質對 ORC 系統影響甚大，若單純只考慮等熵流體的效率較佳為基
準並不客觀。以 R-12為例，便是一例證。如圖 2所示，R-12的熱導性和潛熱值相對於其
他工作流體要來的低，對於 ORC 系統而言，熱傳效果與熱回收率較低的影響，使得整體
效率趨勢的表現並不佳。綜觀各項物性因素考量，R-502 的效率為最低。而在此可以發現
到渦輪機出口溫度在約 33℃時，R-152a 與 R-500 的工作流體會出現一交點。當溫度範圍
在 20~33℃時，此兩種流體的效率趨勢近乎相同；然而當溫度超過 33℃時，R-500的效率
很明顯地會降低。以工作流體之各項物化性質與工作流體之飽和曲線來考量，隨渦輪機
入口溫度增加的潛熱值，直接地影響循環系統的熱回收率，對於系統效率而言，R-152a
的效率趨勢較佳。
圖 8說明當渦輪機入口溫度為一定值時，改變冷凝器的溫度範圍與系統效率的關係。
由 T-s圖來看，當冷凝器出口溫度提升，其代表系統所排出的熱量勢必要增加，因此使得
系統效率下降。圖中很明顯地可以發現，系統效率隨著冷凝溫度的下降而上升。然而，
不同的工作流體所呈現的效率趨勢，並沒有太大的差異，趨勢的走向幾乎相同。
圖 8、案例一：冷凝溫度變化與系統效率之關係 圖 9、不同工作流體之潛熱值與溫度之關係
將此設定的操作條件與上述固定冷凝溫度之操作條件的趨勢，作一比對。可以發
現，改變冷凝溫度範圍對於工作流體方面的選擇，變得更加的廣泛。當改變渦輪機入口
溫度時，在流體選擇上考量點相當的多；相對地，改變冷凝溫度範圍對於流體的選擇，
只需考量工作流體的穩定性，安全性及對於環境的影響等相關的化學性質。對於設計循
環系統而言，冷凝溫度的改變也是一重要的參考因素。
依據上述的分析，從工作流體之物性以及基本的熱力性質，可以歸類三項於工作流
10
機的效率則必須愈低才能達到乾度為 1，對於系統效率而言則相對地降低。由於 R-152a
飽和蒸汽線斜率相當平緩，導致渦輪機出口處乾度太小，如果要改善此缺失，也可將渦
輪機入口狀態操作於過熱區，如圖 4（3～3a）。實際上也可因由渦輪機效率小於 100％而
將之出口處設計在飽和蒸汽線上，讓 R-152a可以在低溫範圍使用。
4.2案例二：Solar energy as high-temperature reservoir
此案例是利用太陽能產生的熱量來供給 ORC 系統熱源。其操作條件為，升壓泵入口
溫度設定為 20℃，渦輪機入口溫度設定在 40~60℃作變化。而分析的結果得知苯類工作
流體的效率較冷媒類要來得好；且濕流體仍 R-11 較好，此趨勢和案例一的結果雷同。圖
12 說明此案例的操作條件下對於乾度、系統效率與渦輪機效率之間的影響。將此案例的
整體趨勢與案例一作比較，可以發現此兩案例趨勢略微不同，差別就在於流體在不同的
溫度範圍間（TH到 TL）有其不同之飽和蒸汽線斜率，以致於渦輪機出口產生不同的乾
度。因此，在考量系統效率與如何設計符合所需求的渦輪機效率，可以依據圖 12 的效率
趨勢，以及與工作流體間的選擇作一整合，相信對於再生能源與 ORC 的應用上更能發揮
得更廣泛。
圖 12、案例二：乾度對渦輪機效率之間的影響 圖 13、兩案例搭配時，系統效率和渦輪機入
口溫度之間的關係
從此兩案例可以發現，工作流體為乾流體時，苯類流體的效率趨勢較佳。雖苯類流
體屬於乾流體性質，然而在此兩案例的操作條件下，其飽和蒸汽曲線卻是近似等熵的濕
流體。且工作流體經等熵膨脹後，工作流體在渦輪機出口處之乾度極近似於 1。對於案例
一而言，苯類流體效率為 5﹪~10﹪；對於案例二而言，苯類流體效率為 6.2﹪~11﹪。當
工作流體為濕流體時，除了飽和蒸汽曲線斜率為影響效率的主要因素外，渦輪機入口溫
度增加時的潛熱值對系統效率而言，也是必需要考量的重點。當改變冷凝溫度時，流體
對系統效率而言，並未有明顯的差異。由於太陽能熱源是利用太陽照射類似太陽能熱水
器的表面；海洋溫差的散熱是以低溫冷海水，因此可以考慮將此兩案例作一結合，亦即
高、低溫區之間的有效面積加大。根據所分析的效率作加成，若取高溫於 40～60℃，低
溫於 5℃，而整體的效率將可達到 11%~15﹪。在此分析而言，如圖 13，近似等熵的濕流
12
1997.
3 何承益、劉鈺鴻、洪祖全，”並式三循環能源系統之熱力分析,” Proceedings of the 23rd 
National Conference on Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, December,
1999.
4吳建國，”海洋特性簡介”，防蝕工程第六卷第一期，Vol. 6, No. 1, 1992, pp. 22-24。
5 洪祖全，”環保冷煤應用於汽電共生底循環系統的性能分析與測試研究”，國科會研究
報告，民 85。
6T. C. Hung, “Waste Heat Recovery of Organic Rankine Cycle Using Dry Fluids,” J. Energy
Conversion and Management, Vol. 42, 2001, pp. 539-553.
7 薛澤源，”有機朗肯循環系統應用於低焓熱源回收的理論與實驗迴路測試研究”,國立清
華大學，工程與系統科學系碩士班碩士論文，民 87。
8T. C. Hung, T. Y. Shai, and S. K. Wang, “A Review of Organic Rankine Cycles (ORCs) for 
the Recovery of Low-Grade Waste Heat”, J. ENERGY, Vol. 22, No. 7, 1997, pp. 661-667.
PEA-AIT International Conference on Energy and Sustainable Development: Issues and Strategies (ESD 2010)
The Empress Hotel, Chiang Mai, Thailand. 2-4 June 2010.
2
Renewable Energy from the Sea - Organic Rankine
Cycle using Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion
S. K. WANG1*, T. C. HUNG1
Abstract –Rankine cycles using refrigerant- and benzene-series fluids as working fluids in converting low-grade energy
from renewable energy resources such as solar energy and ocean thermal energy were investigated in this study. The
main purpose is to verify the feasibility of utilizing ocean energy (i.e., ocean thermal energy conversion, OTEC) which
can also be combined with solar energy in an organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) to generate electricity. Parameters under
investigation were turbine inlet temperature, turbine inlet pressure, condenser exit temperature, turbine exit quality,
overall irrversibility, and system efficiency. Results indicate that wet fluids with very steep saturated vapor curves in
T-s diagram have a better overall performance in energy conversion efficiencies than that of dry fluids. It can also be
shown that all the working fluids have a similar behavior of the efficiency-condenser exit temperature relationship.
Furthermore, an appropriate combination of solar energy and an ORC system with a higher turbine inlet temperature
and a lower condenser temperature (as operated deeply under sea level) would provide an economically feasible and
environment-friendly renewable energy conversion system.
Keywords– Ocean thermal energy conversation, Organic Rankine cycle, Solar energy, Working fluids,.
PEA-AIT International Conference on Energy and Sustainable Development: Issues and Strategies (ESD 2010)
The Empress Hotel, Chiang Mai, Thailand. 2-4 June 2010.
4
electricity plant, and they claimed the hybrid plant can
reach an improved efficiency of 12%. Yamada et al.
[10] performed a computer simulation of a solar-boosted
OTEC system (SOTEC). The results show that the
proposed SOTEC plant can enhance the annual mean net
thermal efficiency up to a value that is 1.5 times higher
than that of the conventional OTEC plant.
ORCs have been investigated for power generation
for years. Several ORC systems have been installed for
recovering waste heat and widely used for converting
renewable energy into power. Hung et al. [11] used some
cryogens as working fluids in an ORC operated between
two isobaric curves, and they found that the system
efficiency increases and decreases for wet and dry fluids,
respectively, when turbine inlet temperature –the main
parameter under consideration–increases. Liu et al. [12]
investigated the effects of several working fluids on an
ORC for waste heat recovery. They found that the
presence of hydrogen bond in certain molecules such as
ammonia, water, and ethanol may cause these fluids
behave like wet fluids due to their large vaporization
enthalpies, and these fluids are regarded as inappropriate
for ORC systems. As stated in the previously
mentioned studies, ORCs using OTEC as the high and
low temperature ends are potentially feasible in
recovering low-grade energy and generating power if
adequate working fluids are used. The efficiency can
further be improved if the high temperature end of the
cycle is boosted by solar energy. The objective of this
study is to gain a comprehensive understanding of the
thermodynamic performances of an ORC using various
working fluids. System efficiencies are calculated for an
ORC using OTEC as the heat source and sink with and
without the boost of solar energy. The following analyses
focus on thermodynamic performances of the ORCs as
scoping calculations without considering detailed system
integration, e.g., the solar thermal pond or solar energy
collector served as a boundary condition of the inlet
temperature of the evaporator. Detailed calculations of
pressure losses and heat transfer in evaporator and
condenser are also ignored since they depend strongly on
materials and configurations of the system components.
Instead, irreveribilities of the working fluids in various
major components of the cycle are calculated to evaluate
the effects of those losses. Parameters under
consideration are turbine inlet temperature, turbine inlet
pressure, condenser exit temperature, turbine exit quality,
overall irrversibility, and system efficiency.
An ORC system using low-grade energy sources is
depicted in Fig. 1. The system is composed of an
evaporator (waste heat boiler), a turbine expander, a
condenser, and a pump. A working fluid flows into the
evaporator in which the high-temperature heat source
(which may come from the warm seawater or a solar
pond) is utilized. The vapor of the boiling fluid enters the
turbine expander and generates power. The exit fluid
from the turbine expander then enters the condenser in
which the low-temperature cooling water (i.e., the cold
seawater) is utilized to condense the fluid. Finally, a
fluid pump raises fluid pressure and feeds the fluid into
the evaporator to complete the cycle. So long as a
temperature difference between the high- and
low-temperature ends is large enough, the cycle will
continue to operate and generate power. The objective of
this study is focused on thermodynamic analyses of the
working fluids and the overall system efficiency rather
than hardware arrangements such as the system
integration of solar energy and OTEC. Therefore, issues
regarding material selections, component configurations,
frictional losses, heat transfer performances of the
evaporator and condenser, and cost analysis are not
considered in this study.
PEA-AIT International Conference on Energy and Sustainable Development: Issues and Strategies (ESD 2010)
The Empress Hotel, Chiang Mai, Thailand. 2-4 June 2010.
6
Fig. 3 T-s Diagram of Working Fluids in Turbine
under a Fixed TH
The mathematical model is analyzed as
Pump:
W12 = ( p1–p2 )v1
(1)
H2 = h1 + w12 h = f (T3, x3)
(2)
Heat exchanger:
Q23 = h3–h2 h4 = f (p4, s4)
(3)
Turbine expander:
W34 = h3–h4
(4)
Overall efficiency： ηth = (w34–w12)/q23
(5)
Turbine efficiency: x4a～x4~1
h4a = f (p3, x4a)
(6)
ηt = (h3–h4)/( h3–h4a)
(7)
w34a = h3–h4a
(8)
Overall efficiency：η = (w34a–w12)/q23
(9)
Practically, due to irreversibility in an actual
thermodynamic system, it is impossible to convert all the
available thermal energy into useful work. Furthermore,
irreversibility provides an additional means of estimating
the system efficiency of a thermodynamic cycle. From
the second law of thermodynamics, the equation of
irreversibility rate can be expressed for uniform flow as
follows:
][  
j j
jsys
inletexit
o
tot
o T
q
dt
ds
ssTm
dt
ds
TI 
(10)
Assuming that the system reaches a steady state, and
there is only one exit and one inlet for any component,
Equation (10) becomes
])[(
T
q
ssTmI inletexito 
(11)
where To is the ambient temperature. Since the major
contributions of the irreversibilities are from the
processes 1-2 and 3-4, the total irreversibility rate
becomes
][ 1443
L
a
H
o
j
jtot T
hh
T
hh
TmII
 
(12)
From Eq. (12), one can see that the heat transfer rates in
the evaporator and condenser associated with the
ambient temperature are the key factors affecting the
overall irreversibility; and accordingly, the system
efficiency. For the sake of a better understanding of the
effects of pressure on irreversibility, the availability ratio,
φ, is defined as follows
23
23
qm
Iqm tot

 
(13)
The factor is the ratio of the available energy to the total
energy obtained from the heat source.
PEA-AIT International Conference on Energy and Sustainable Development: Issues and Strategies (ESD 2010)
The Empress Hotel, Chiang Mai, Thailand. 2-4 June 2010.
8
Fig. 4 Case 1: System efficiency-turbine inlet
temperature dependence for dry fluids
As for the wet fluids, both R-11 and R-12 have a
rather better performance in system efficiency than that
of the other wet fluids except for R-152ª as shown in Fig.
5. This is because that both R-11 and R-12 are nearly
identical to isentropic wet fluids, i.e., their saturation
vapor curves are virtually vertical in this region. In
practical operation with a careful arrangement, the fluid
conditions at the turbine exit can be adjusted to fall on
the saturation vapor curve. This has two obvious
advantages: no occurrence of moisture during isentropic
expansion in the turbine, and no need for using a
regenerator to reduce condensation load.
Fig. 5. Case 1: System efficiency-turbine inlet
temperature dependence for wet fluids
Based on the analysis stated above, three factors
are believed to have major impacts on the system
efficiency according to the thermophysical properties of
the fluids under investigation: the slope of saturation
curve, specific heat, and latent heat. Under a broader
range of working temperature between TH and TL, latent
heat can vary significantly. It has a direct influence on
the energy absorbed in the evaporator, and the
“bandwidth” of the saturation curve in the T-s diagram at
the low temperature end; and consequentially, the net
work done by the cycle.
As stated above, isentropic fluids in general have a
better performance in efficiency. Wet fluids also perform
well in system efficiency. However, a major problem
with the wet fluids is the possible damage to the turbine
blades due to corrosion from the moisture of the
two-phase state of the working fluids as they do not
follow a saturation curve during expansion in the turbine.
Therefore, emphasis is also focused on the influence of
the “quality” of the wet fluids onturbine efficiency. Here,
the working conditions are: 5℃ for the low temperature
end, 40℃ for the high temperature end, and a saturation
state for the turbine inlet. Figure 6 shows the
dependence of the system efficiency and turbine
efficiency on the quality of the fluids at turbine exit. As
the exit quality reaches 1, i.e., a high-efficiency turbine is
not necessary, R-152ª has the lowest system efficiency of
6.7 % while R-11 and C7H8 have the highest system
efficiency around 8.5 %. An isentropic fluid such as
R-11 expands in the turbine isentropically to a low
pressure with a quality very close to 1. Therefore,
design constraints are less stringent for such fluids.
When the quality at the turbine exit drops, turbine
efficiency must be reduced accordingly in order to have
an exit quality close to 1. R-152ª on the other hand has
a rather slowly-varying positive slope of the saturation
vapor curve; this results in a very low quality at turbine
exit. The situation can be improved by operating the
fluid in super-heated region before it entering the turbine.
PEA-AIT International Conference on Energy and Sustainable Development: Issues and Strategies (ESD 2010)
The Empress Hotel, Chiang Mai, Thailand. 2-4 June 2010.
10
Fig. 9 System Efficiency and Availability Ratio versus
Turbine Inlet temperature for fluid C8H10
4.2 Case 2: Solar energy as high-temperature
reservoir
In this case the energy source of an ORC system is
supplied by solar energy in the evaporator. The high
temperature source may be from a solar pond or a solar
collector. As a scoping calculation, the operation
conditions of the ORC are: 20℃ for pump inlet
temperature and 40 to 60℃ for turbine inlet temperature.
The study shows that benzene-series fluids have a better
performance in efficiency than that of the
refrigerant-series fluids. Among the wet fluids, R-11 has
the best performance. This result is similar to Case 1.
Figure 10 shows the dependences of the system
efficiency and turbine efficiency on turbine exit quality.
Compared with Case 1, the difference is the turbine exit
quality; resulting from different slopes of the saturation
vapor curves at a new temperature range (between TH
and TL) . A suitable working fluid can thus be selected
based on a consideration of the system efficiency in
order to meet the required efficiency of the turbine.
A composite system which combines OTEC and
solar energy to serve as an ORC system with a higher
temperature difference between TH and TL, i.e., an
evaporator with a higher operation temperature supplied
by solar energy and a condenser cooled by cold water in
deep sea, is believed to yield an even better performance.
In this case, the system efficiency can be as high as 11 to
15 % if the operation temperature of the evaporator is
between 40 and 60℃. As shown in Fig. 16, isentropic (or
nearly isentropic) fluids have higher efficiencies. By
comparing R-11 and R-113, R-11 has a better efficiency
performance than that of R-113. This can be explained
from the T-s diagram in which R-113, a dry fluid,
becomes superheated at the turbine exit, and this reduces
the area of net work in the T-s diagram. Furthermore,
R-11 has a higher thermal conductivity and latent heat
than those of R-113. Therefore, an optimal operation of
high efficiency can be achieved with a proper selection
of the working fluid in the combined system.
Fig. 10 Case 2: System Efficiency and Turbine
Efficiency on Quality
5. CONCLUSION
System efficiency can be optimized by selecting a
proper working fluid operated at suitable working
conditions. In terms of disadvantages, dry fluids in
general generate superheated vapor at the turbine exit,
and this reduces the area of net work in the T-s diagram.
A generator may be needed in order to relieve the
cooling load of the condenser. The major disadvantage
for the wet fluids is their moisture content during
PEA-AIT International Conference on Energy and Sustainable Development: Issues and Strategies (ESD 2010)
The Empress Hotel, Chiang Mai, Thailand. 2-4 June 2010.
12
34:1752-1758.
[11]. Hung, T. C., Shai, T. Y., and Wang, S. K. 1997. A
review of organic Rankine cycles (ORCs) for the
recovery of low-grade waste heat, Energy
22(7):661-667.
[12]. Liu, B. T,, Chien, K. H., and Wang, C. C. 2004.
Effect of working fluids on organic Rankine cycle
for waste heat recovery, Energy 29:1207-1217.
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王曉剛 計畫編號：98-2221-E-214-059- 
計畫名稱：結合太陽能與海洋溫差於有機朗肯循環發電研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
