 2
摘要：本研究利用碳二亞胺試劑在溫和條件下合成聚甲氧基乙二醇-聚己內酯三團聯共聚合物。這個雙
性團聯高分子可以自我組裝成為奈米級微胞並胞覆抗癌藥物(阿黴素)於親水性的顆粒核心。阿黴素的
包覆率為 8.5%。在共軛焦顯微鏡影像發現阿黴素以胞吞方式進入野生種人類乳癌細胞內。在小鼠實驗
中看到安全的微胞劑量為 71.4 mg/kg，而搭載在微胞中的阿黴素在血液中循環時間顯著比純阿黴素還
久。在大鼠的生物分佈實驗中看到注射微胞後 4 小時，阿黴素主要分布於肝與脾臟。在接種人類乳癌
細胞的裸鼠實驗中看到，相較於多重注射純阿黴素的治療，在第 0，7 與 14 天注射 5mg/kg 微胞劑型
的方式可以達到顯著抑制腫瘤體積的功效。 
Abstract: The triblock copolymer composed of two hydrophilic segments monomethoxy poly(ethylene glycol) 
(mPEG) and one hydrophobic segment poly(ε-caprolactone) (PCL) was synthesized by coupling of 
mPEG-PCL-OH and mPEG-COOH in a mild condition by using dicyclohexylcarbodiimide and 
4-dimethylamino pyridine. The amphiphilic block copolymer can self assemble into nano-sized micelles to 
accommodate anti-tumor drug, doxorubixin (DOX), in hydrophobic core. DOX was encapsulated into 
micelles with a drug loading content of 8.5%. The intracellular distribution of DOX in confocal images 
suggested that DOX was internalized into human breast cancer cells, MCF-7/wt via endocystosis. A 
dose-finding scheme of the polymeric micelle (placebo) shows the safe dose of PEG-PCL-PEG micelle at 71.4 
mg/kg in mice. Importantly, DOX-loaded micelles significantly increased the circulation time of DOX in 
plasma in compared with free DOX in rats. Biodistribution study displayed that extravasation of DOX from 
plasma to liver and spleen in first 4 hours. Lastly, DOX-loaded micelles suppressed the tumor growth in nude 
mice bearing human breast cancer cells with multiple injections (5 mg/kg, 3 times at day 0, 7 and 14) as 
compared to multiple administrations of free DOX. 
Keywords: nanoparticles; drug delivery system; monomethoxy poly(ethylene glycol); 
poly(ε-caprolactone); safety evaluation, biodistribution, anti-tumor activity. 
 
1. Introduction  
Doxorubicin (DOX), an anthracycline drug, has been found very effective for the treatment of breast 
cancers as well as tumors of ovarian, prostate, brain, cervix and lung [1-4]. Nevertheless, drawbacks such as 
cardiac toxicity, short half-life, and low solubility in aqueous solution have hindered its applications. Also, 
multidrug resistance (MDR) has been found in some tumor cells and has been attributed to the P-glycoprotein 
(P-gp) efflux pump on the plasma membrane [5, 6]. To overcome these obstacles, strategies such as 
encapsulating DOX into the core of polymeric nanoparticles by chemical conjugation or physical entrapment 
have been attempted [7-11]. The employment of polymeric nanoparticles also provides an opportunity to 
tailor the release profiles of drugs that are encapsulated [12, 13]. 
In recent years, biodegradable polymeric nanoparticles have been extensively employed as effective drug 
delivery systems to enhance the efficacy and safety of encapsulated drugs. Nanoparticle carriers provide a 
better accumulation into tumor tissue through an enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect [14, 15], 
ability to overcome multidrug resistance [11] and better pharmacokinetics of drug in vivo [16]. Nanoparticles 
composed of poly(ε-caprolactone) (PCL) and poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) have been demonstrated great 
 percentage of DOX in micelles relative to
was calculated from the mass of incorporated DOX divided by the weight of polymer. The amount of DOX 
loaded in micelles was determined by 
Tokyo, Japan). The DOX solutions of
solutions were measured to obtain a calibration curve.
Figure 1. The molecular structure of PEG
carbodiimide chemistry. 
2.3. Acute Toxicity of Triblock Copolymeric Micelle In Vivo
Nine female ICR mice with average body weight of 25
National Taiwan University, Taiwan). The mice were feed in the animal facility where room temperature and 
humidity were maintained at 25 
o
C and RH 60%. All experiments were carried out in accordance with the 
ethical guidelines for Animal Care and Use Committee of Chung Yuan Christian University. For acute toxicity 
test, the female mice (n = 3) were anesthetized with a combination of Zoletil (0.02 mL/kg) and Xylazine (0.02 
mL/kg) solutions and then micellar solution was intravenously administrated
used as control. For multiple dosing tests, 71.4 mg/kg 
the test. The body weight of the mice was then monitored 
14, the animals were sacrificed and organ tissues (liver and kidney) were collected. Histological examinations 
of the organs were carried out after dissection
counted as adverse reaction due to the injection of nanoparticle (Eclipse 50i, Nikon, Japan).
2.4. Biodistribution of DOX-Loaded Micelle In Vivo
The in vivo biodistribution of DOX
which were supplied by the Laboratory Animals, National Taiwan University, Taiwan and were maintained at 
the ethical guidelines for Animal Care and Use Committee of Chung Yuan Christian University, Taiwan. 18 rats 
were randomly assigned in 2 groups (Gro
i.v. injection of DOX-loaded micelle). Each group has three time points (1, 4 and 8 h), each time point contains 
three rats were injected i.v. with DOX or DOX
each interval time, blood was collected and animal was sacrificed. The organs (heart, liver, lung, kidney and 
spleen) were collected. The tissues were homogenized in KH
supernatant was collected and kept at 
added 0.4 ml CH3CN and vortex for 30 s and centrifuged at 15000 × g for 10 min. 
and removed solvent at 40 degree under stream of N
(methanol: 0.1 % acetic acid and 0.1% ammonium hydroxide (25%), pH=4.0; ratio: 60:40), filtered and 
transferred to auto sampler vials containing limit
C-18 column was used and the mobile phase was delivered at a rate of 1
4
 the initial feeding amount of DOX. The drug loading content (DLC) 
the absorption at 485 nm using UV-Vis spectrometry 
 various concentrations were prepared, 
[27-28].  
 
-PCL-PEG synthesized by coupling two PEG
 
-30 g were used in this study (Laboratory Animals, 
 at dose of 71.4 mg/kg. PBS was 
micellar solution was injected at 0, 3
for a test period of 14 days post
, then abnormal fibrotic tissue and loosen mor
 
-loaded micelle was measured with female Wistar rats of 250
up A with i.v. injection of the pristine DOX
-loaded nanoparticle at the equivalent DOX 5
2PO4 (20 mM), and then were centrifuged; the 
-20 
o
C until analyzed. For HPLC analysis, 0.4 mL of organ/plasma was 
The supernatant was collected
2. The residual was added 0.25 mL of HPLC mobile phase 
ed-volume inserts (150 µL) [29]. For the HPLC analysis, the 
 mL/min. Sample (50
(UV-530, Jasco, 
and the absorptions of the 
-PCL block using 
rd
 and 6
th 
days of 
-injection. On day 
phology were 
 
–300 g, 
 solution and Group B with 
 mg/kg dose. At 
 
 µL) was injected 
 6
whole observation period, it is regarded that the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of prepared micelle was 
higher than 71.4 mg/kg. Histological examination was performed to evaluated toxicities in kidneys and livers. 
As shown in Figure 2, no particular toxicity, no degeneration, necrosis, no neutrophils, yet no activation of 
immune response were observed in liver and kidney when the mice were administered with single dose and 
multiple doses. 
Figure 2. In vivo acute toxicity of PEG-PCL-PEG micelle in ICR mice. Biopsy of liver and kidney was treated 
with H&E staining after 14 days post-injection. (a), (d) Control; (b), (e) Single dose; (c), (f) multiple doses (scale 
bar: 100 µm). 
 
3.3. Biodistribution of DOX-Loaded Micelle In Vivo 
Biodistribution profile of free DOX and DOX-loaded micelles were examined in Wista rat. The animal was 
intravenously administered at dose of 5 mg DOX per kg body weight of rats. The equivalent dose of the 
micelle was based on the MTD of PEG-PCL-PEG as described in section 3.2. DOX content in plasma, heart, 
liver, lung, kidney and spleen were measured at three interval time (1, 4 and 8 h) post injection. The results 
indicated that DOX-loaded micelles could prolong the DOX in plasma and exhibited higher DOX concentration 
in plasma than free DOX (Figure 3). At the 1 and 4 h time-points, DOX level of micelle dosage form in plasma 
was 1.35 and 2.06-fold higher than that of free DOX, respectively. Interestingly, at 8 h post-injection, the DOX 
level of free DOX was not detected in plasma, in contrary, it was still remained at high concentration in 
DOX-loaded micelle formulation. Biodistribution patterns to the hearts lungs, and kidneys did not show 
substantial accumulation in DOX-loaded micelles and free DOX groups and were not significantly different. 
The uptake by liver was observed to be higher for free DOX as compared to DOX-loaded micelles at 1 h 
post-injection. 
Figure 3. Biodistribution of DOX-loaded micelles (a, left) and free DOX (b, right) after administration at the 
equivalent 5 mg/kg DOX. 
 8
4. Conclusions 
In this study, the PEG-PCL-PEG micelle obtained from self-assembly method displayed non-toxicity and 
biocompatibility. In the acute toxicity test, during the whole observation period the group of mice treated with 
prepared micelles in multiple doses had no toxic effect and no death in ICR mice. The maximum tolerable dose 
of PEG-PCL-PEG micelle was found to higher than 71.4 mg/kg body weight of mice. In vivo studies 
demonstrated that entrapment of DOX to PEG-PCL-PEG micelle prolonged the circulation time of DOX and 
increased therapeutic efficacy of DOX through multiple injections. The authors expected that, with conjugation 
of specific targeting ligands on the surface of the micelle, the efficacy would be significantly improved, as 
compared to current study.  
 
Acknowledgements 
The authors would like to thank National Science Council, Republic of China for financial support under 
grant numbered 98-2221-E-033-072. 
References  
[1] Rivera, E.; Valero, V.; Arun, B.; Royce, M.; Adinin, R.; Hoelzer, K.; Walters, R.; Wade, J.L., III; Pusztai, 
L.; Hortobagyi, G.N. "Phase II Study of Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin in Combination With Gemcitabine 
in Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer", J Clin Oncol., 21, 7, 3249-3254,  2003. 
[2] Shah, J.J.; Orlowski, R.Z.; Thomas, S.K. "Role of combination bortezomib and pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin in the management of relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma", Therapeut Clin Risk Manag., 
5, 151-159, 2009. 
[3] Swenson, C.E.; Bolcsak, L.E.; Batist, G.; Guthrie, T.H.J.; Tkaczuk, K.H.; Boxenbaum, H.; Welles, L.; 
Chow, S.-C.; Bhamra, R.; Chaikin, P. "Pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin administered i.v. as Myocet (TLC 
D-99; liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin citrate) compared with conventional doxorubicin when given in 
combination with cyclophosphamide in patients with metastatic breast cancer", Anti-Cancer Drugs, 14, 3, 
239-246, 2003. 
[4] Cuong, N.V.; Hsieh, M.F. "Recent Advances in Pharmacokinetics of Polymeric Excipients Used in 
Nanosized Anti-Cancer Drugs", Curr. Drug Metab., 10, 842-850, 2009. 
[5] Wong, H.L.; Bendayan, R.; Rauth, A.M.; Xue, H.Y.; Babakhanian, K.; Wu, X.Y. "A Mechanistic Study of 
Enhanced Doxorubicin Uptake and Retention in Multidrug Resistant Breast Cancer Cells Using a 
Polymer-Lipid Hybrid Nanoparticle System", J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther., 317 , 3, 1372-1381, 2006. 
[6] Xiong, X.-B.; Ma, Z.; Lai, R.; Lavasanifar, A. "The therapeutic response to multifunctional polymeric 
nano-conjugates in the targeted cellular and subcellular delivery of doxorubicin. Biomaterials, 31, 4, 757-768, 
2010. 
[7] Marchi, N.; Hallene, K.; Kight, K.; Cucullo, L.; Moddel, G.; Bingaman, W.; Dini, G.; Vezzani, A.; 
Janigro, D. "Significance of MDR1 and multiple drug resistance in refractory human epileptic brain", BMC 
Medicine,  2, 1, 37, 2004. 
[8] Zhang, Z.; Huey Lee, S.; Feng, S.S. "Folate-decorated poly(lactide-co-glycolide)-vitamin E TPGS 
nanoparticles for targeted drug delivery", Biomaterials, 28, 10, 1889-1899, 2007. 
 10
Cancer", accepted in J Biomater Sci Polym Ed. 2010. 
[26] Cuong, N.V.; Hsieh, M.F.; Chen, Y.T.; Liau, I. "Synthesis and characterization of PEG-PCL-PEG triblock 
copolymers as carriers of doxorubicin for the treatment of breast cancer", J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 117, 6, 
3694-3703, 2010. 
[27] Hsieh, M.F.; Cuong, N.V.; Chen, C.H.; Chen, Y.T.; Yeh, J.M. "Nano-Sized Micelles of Block Copolymers 
of Methoxy Poly(ethylene glycol)-Poly(ε-caprolactone)-Graft-2-Hydroxyethyl Cellulose for Doxorubicin 
Delivery", J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol., 8, 2362-2368, 2008. 
[28] Aliabadi, H.M.; Mahmud, A.; Sharifabadi, A.D.; Lavasanifar, A. "Micelles of methoxy poly(ethylene 
oxide)-b-poly(ε-caprolactone) as vehicles for the solubilization and controlled delivery of cyclosporine A", J. 
Control. Release., 104, 2, 301-311, 2005. 
[29] Wei, G.; Xiao, S.; Si, D.; Liu, C. "Improved HPLC method for doxorubicin quantification in rat plasma 
to study the pharmacokinetics of micelle-encapsulated and liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin formulations", 
Biomed. Chromatog., 22 , 11, 1252-1258, 2008. 
 
 
  
 12
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99 年 11 月 6 日 
一、參訪過程： 
  本次承國科會與中原大學補助，參加 The XII Mediterranean Conference on Medical and 
Biological Engineering and Computing(MEDICON2010)國際會議，發表文章的題目是” Nano-Sized 
Drug Carrier for Cancer Therapy: Dose-Toxicity Relationship of PEG-PCL-PEG Polymeric Micelle on 
ICR Mice”。這研究為本人 98 年度國科會計畫的研究成果之一。由於會議地點並不是在希臘的首
都雅典，因此必須由台灣搭乘長榮航空班機透過中停曼谷後抵達雅典後轉機到離會議地點約 2 小
時車程的第二大城，Thessaloniki，再搭乘大會提供的巴士才能抵達舉辦會議的飯店。本次參加會
議個人的行程安排相當不順利，尤其下榻的旅館遲遲無法確定。因為補助經費有限，所以想預定
離大會約 2 公里遠的旅館(大會優惠價格約每晚 50 歐元)，但大會秘書始終不明確說明是否可以安
排，直到本人抵達雅典後本人感到不安，因此在雅典停留幾天後才決定入住會議舉辦的飯店(每晚
116 歐元)。 
  會議過程算是平順，但可能希臘人的民族性格使然，部分譯程並未按照原定議程或延遲舉行，
對於國際研討會而言這是少見的情況。此外因為大會舉辦的飯店是地中海地區著名度假勝地，所
以進出該地區以汽車為主，沒有大眾捷運系統。本人在回國的當天因接送的行程延遲，險些錯過
航班，這些延遲常發生在本次希臘之行，顯然未來有意前往希臘的學者必須特別的注意行程之安
排。 
同樣參加本次會議的學者包括成大資工系王士豪教授，中原電機系林康平教授，中原化學系
葉瑞銘教授與中原醫工系李文婷教授。前二者除了發表論文以外也參加國際醫工聯盟的次團體會
議(publication committee)。該會議是國際醫工聯盟(IFMBE)在地中國家舉辦的年度會議。研討會的
主軸是生醫科學與工程，以學術論文的發表為主，大會的主題包涵生醫電子與資訊，生物影像，
藥物輸送，生醫材料，組織工程與醫療輔具等，為提升會議的品質，主辦單位邀請上述者提領域
的重要學者前來演講。本次共邀請六位歐美專家進行 keynote speak，地中海國家一向是我們比較
忽略的地區，但近年該地區舉辦許多國際研討會，本次前去參加會議除發表論文提升本校的知名
度以外，也藉此了解希臘的學術現況。 
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－033－072 
計畫名稱 高分子奈米藥物載體於乳癌光動力治療與化療之毒性與藥物動力學評估 
出國人員
姓名 謝明發  
服務機構
及職稱 
中原大學生物醫學工程系 副教授 
會議時間  2010 年 5 月 23 日~2010 年 5 月 30 日 會議地點 
Porto Carras, Chalkidiki(近 Thessaloniki), 
Greece 
會議名稱 The XII Mediterranean Conference on Medical and Biological Engineering and 
Computing(MEDICON2010) 
發表論文
題目 
Nano-Sized Drug Carrier for Cancer Therapy: Dose-Toxicity Relationship of 
PEG-PCL-PEG Polymeric Micelle on ICR Mice 
出席國際會議心得報告 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-033 -072 (機票與註冊費)，中原大學研發處補助生活費與簽證費 
國科會計畫名稱：高分子奈米藥物載體於乳癌光動力治療與化療之毒性與藥物動力學評估 
出國人員姓名/服務機關/職稱：謝明發 中原大學生物醫學工程系 副教授 
時間：2010年 5月 23日~2010年 5月 30日 
國家與地點：Porto Carras, Chalkidiki(近 Thessaloniki), Greece  
 
一、參訪過程： 
  本次承國科會與中原大學補助，參加 The XII Mediterranean Conference on Medical 
and Biological Engineering and Computing(MEDICON2010)國際會議，發表文章的題目是” 
Nano-Sized Drug Carrier for Cancer Therapy: Dose-Toxicity Relationship of PEG-PCL-PEG 
Polymeric Micelle on ICR Mice”。這研究為本人 98年度國科會計畫的研究成果之一。由
於會議地點並不是在希臘的首都雅典，因此必須由台灣搭乘長榮航空班機透過中停曼谷
後抵達雅典後轉機到離會議地點約 2小時車程的第二大城，Thessaloniki，再搭乘大會提
供的巴士才能抵達舉辦會議的飯店。本次參加會議個人的行程安排相當不順利，尤其下
榻的旅館遲遲無法確定。因為補助經費有限，所以想預定離大會約 2公里遠的旅館(大會
優惠價格約每晚 50歐元)，但大會秘書始終不明確說明是否可以安排，直到本人抵達雅
典後本人感到不安，因此在雅典停留幾天後才決定入住會議舉辦的飯店(每晚116歐元)。 
  會議過程算是平順，但可能希臘人的民族性格使然，部分譯程並未按照原定議程或
延遲舉行，對於國際研討會而言這是少見的情況。此外因為大會舉辦的飯店是地中海地
區著名度假勝地，所以進出該地區以汽車為主，沒有大眾捷運系統。本人在回國的當天
因接送的行程延遲，險些錯過航班，這些延遲常發生在本次希臘之行，顯然未來有意前
往希臘的學者必須特別的注意行程之安排。 
同樣參加本次會議的學者包括成大資工系王士豪教授，中原電機系林康平教授，中
原化學系葉瑞銘教授與中原醫工系李文婷教授。前二者除了發表論文以外也參加國際醫
工聯盟的次團體會議(publication committee)。該會議是國際醫工聯盟(IFMBE)在地中國家
舉辦的年度會議。研討會的主軸是生醫科學與工程，以學術論文的發表為主，大會的主
題包涵生醫電子與資訊，生物影像，藥物輸送，生醫材料，組織工程與醫療輔具等，為
提升會議的品質，主辦單位邀請上述者提領域的重要學者前來演講。本次共邀請六位歐
美專家進行 keynote speak，地中海國家一向是我們比較忽略的地區，但近年該地區舉辦
許多國際研討會，本次前去參加會議除發表論文提升本校的知名度以外，也藉此了解希
臘的學術現況。 
 
二、參訪心得 
 在 5月 28日早上大會安排德國 RWTH-Aachen大學 Gunter Ran教授進行專題演講，
題目是 Global Aspects and Developments in Biomedical Engineering Applied to Health and 
Life Care：Pushes and Pulls。他提到當美國醫療需求達到GPD的 15%及歐洲地區國家GDP
的 8.5%時，醫工相關研究單位必須思考如何證明政府投資的經費可以滿足臨床需求。這
趨勢也發生在台灣。因此 Proof of concept是基礎醫工研發人員必須隨時謹記在心上。 
有一篇 Poster引起我的興趣：來自捷克與斯洛伐克的 Tomas Zdrazil及 Jiri Holcik發表一
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/06
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高分子奈米藥物載體於乳癌光動力治療與化療之毒性與藥物動力學評估
計畫主持人: 謝明發
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-033-072- 學門領域: 生醫材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
