   1  
中文摘要： 
近年來，天然災害發生的頻率有顯著地增加。儘管資訊科技亦蓬勃發展，至今資訊技術
仍未被有效地應用於災害防救。毫無疑問地，天然災害已陸續突顯出目前緊急通訊系統的
不足之處。在現今的緊急通訊系統中，災害警報是透過傳統的電視與無線電廣播，而救災
任務則仰賴傳統的 GSM 與衛星通話。這些傳統的技術都無法滿足災害警報與醫療急救的時
間急迫性。在本計畫中，我們針對次世代行動網路提出了一個有效率且具有彈性的緊急通
訊系統，並以一雛型系統證實其所具備的高效率與可行性。 
關鍵字：緊急通訊; IP 多媒體子系統; 行動服務開發; 次世代行動網路 
 
英文摘要： 
In recent years, the frequency of disaster occurrence significantly increases. Although the 
information technology is advanced as well, the advantage of leveraging information technology 
on disaster prevention and recovery has not been effectively utilized yet. Undoubtedly, natural 
disasters have already exposed the deficiency of existing emergency communications system. In 
this system, disaster warning subsystem is built upon conventional TV and radio broadcasting, 
while the rescue mission relied on basic GSM and satellite communications. These traditional 
technologies can not satisfy the critical timing requirements of disaster warning and emergency 
medical service. In this project, we describe an efficient and flexible methodology to develop 
emergency communications system in next generation mobile networks. We also propose a 
proof-of-concept prototype to show the feasibility and efficiency of the proposed methodology. 
Keywords: emergency communications; IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); mobile service 
creation; Next Generation Mobile Network 
 
一、前言（包含研究目的與文獻探討）： 
In recent years, the frequency of disaster occurrence significantly increases [1]. On the other 
hand, the information technology has advanced considerably over recent years. However, the 
advantage of leveraging information technology on disaster prevention and recovery has not been 
effectively utilized yet. 
During Typhoon Morakot in 2009, Taiwan experienced serious damage from flooding and 
mudslide. From the disaster warning process and the rescue mission, we noticed the deficiency of 
the existing emergency communications system. The disaster warning subsystem was built upon 
conventional TV and radio broadcasting for limited audience, and the rescue missions solely 
   3  
二、研究方法: 
1. 問題定義: 
Emergency communications system consists of three stages: 
 At disaster warning stage, disaster warning center alerts people in disaster-prone areas 
as soon as it determines the occurrence of disasters.  
 At emergency reporting stage, victims ask for help by reporting emergent condition 
through emergency call (e.g., by dialing 112) to the Public Safety Answering Point 
(PSAP) [7].  
 At rescue and medical care stage, rescue teams search for victims/injuries and try to 
save their lives.  
At “disaster warning” and “rescue and medical care” stages, the timing requirement is 
critical, and more advanced communications technologies are expected to increase survival rate. 
Challenges of these two stages are further discussed as follows. 
As to disaster warning, there are many research works on how to rapidly determine 
earthquake magnitude and tsunami information [8] [9]. From [8] and [9], it is possible now to 
generate tsunami warning within 15 minutes after the earthquake happens (that is consistent with 
what PTWC claims). However, as described in Section I, after tsunami warning information is 
issued, people may have only a few minutes to move to higher ground. To increase survival rate, 
people in disaster-prone areas must be alerted in only a few seconds. In this case, traditional TV 
and radio broadcasting is obviously not sufficient to notify people in disaster-prone areas in time. 
Unsurprisingly, alerting through mobile phones is the most promising method for disaster 
warning. 
Until now, disaster warning through mobile phones can only be issued by mobile operators, 
resulting in undesired information dispatching delay from the disaster warning center to the 
mobile operators. Furthermore, there is no standard procedure for handset-based disaster warning. 
The disaster warning center cannot control how the people in disaster-prone areas will be alerted. 
The study in [10] suggests that mobile operators could make wider use of cell broadcasts to 
provide warning to their customers in disaster-prone areas. However, not all operators have the 
cell broadcast messaging function activated in their network, and many handsets do not have the 
capability to support cell broadcast. To address these issues, without considering cell broadcast, 
we discuss disaster warning methodology that can be provided by third parties for all legacy 
mobile phones and smartphones. 
If, unfortunately, people in disaster-prone areas could not escape to safe areas in time, they 
would need rescue/medical care as soon as possible. Take earthquake as an example, the initial 
“golden hours” (usually meaning the first 24 hours) are crucial for the rescue of victims trapped 
in fallen buildings and flooding. In Kobe earthquake occurred in 1995, more than 80% of victims 
rescued on the first day finally survived, but less than 30% rescued on the second day survived 
[11]. 
One of the critical factors that affects survival rate is the urgent timing requirement of 
   5  
 WebSphere Presence Server 
 WebSphere XML Document Management Server 
The Telecom Web Services Server, or TWSS, enables application developers to rapidly and 
easily leverage telecom network capabilities in their applications through the exposed Web 
services Parlay X APIs. Services can be reused and shared among other service implementations. 
The exposed services include, but not limited to, Third Party Call, Short Message Service (SMS), 
Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS), and Location Service. Besides, Access Gateway allows 
policy enforcement of the service requesters, providing services such as traffic monitoring and 
authorization. 
The WebSphere Presence Server (PS) provides a SIP-based access method and aggregator to 
user and device presence and awareness information. The WebSphere XML Document 
Management Server (xDMS) provides an HTTP-based XML document management system 
coupled with a SIP-based notification engine. 
3. 緊急通訊系統設計: 
In this section, we propose an efficient emergency communications system based on Parlay X 
APIs. 
Figure 1 illustrates the proposed emergency communications system architecture. In this 
figure, Normal Users/First Aid Personnel (NUs/FAP; Figure 1 (1)) and Rescue Team Members 
(RTMs; Figure 1 (2)) use mobile phones to access the mobile telecommunications core network 
(i.e., the IP Multimedia Subsystem or IMS; Figure 1 (b)) through radio access network (Figure 1 
(a)). Note that first aid personnel are normal users with first aid capability. In the IMS, SMS and 
MMS are provided by SMS Server and MMS Server (Figure 1 (3)), respectively. IMS Signaling 
is carried out by Call Session Control Functions (CSCFs; Figure 1 (4)). The Gateway Mobile 
Location Center (GMLC; Figure 1 (5)) supports Location Service.  
Parlay X Service Platform (Figure 1 (c)) is deployed between the IMS and Emergency 
Communications Application Network (Figure 1 (d)). In the Parlay X Service Platform, Parlay X 
Gateway (Parlay X GW; Figure 1 (7)) provides Parlay X APIs for the third parties (i.e., 
applications developed in the Emergency Communications Application Network) to access the 
internal components in the IMS. The PS (Figure 1 (8)) provides a SIP-based access method and 
aggregator to user and device presence and awareness information. The xDMS (Figure 1 (6)) 
provides an HTTP-based XML document management system coupled with a SIP-based 
notification engine. 
   7  
victim/injury’s information from xDMS and presence status of FAP/RTMs from PS. Based on the 
retrieved information, RMCC schedules rescue/medical care missions according to urgency of 
each case. Note that FAP are normal users with first aid capability; they spread all over the 
country, and are more likely to provide victims/injuries first aid in time. Since first aid capability 
is licensed, RMCC can easily organize FAP through organizations like Red Cross. 
 In this system, mobile operators only need to deploy xDMS, Parlay X GW and PS. They do 
not need to know how emergency communications applications are implemented. DWC,   
PSAP  and  RMCC   can   directly  communicate  with NUs/FAP/RTMs through mobile 
phones without involvement of mobile operators. This feature is important because of the critical 
timing requirement in disaster prevention and recovery. 
When the mobile operators deploy new mobile services, they only need to update the 
software on Parlay X GW. For example, when Chunghwa Telecom deploys Push-to-talk over 
Cellular (PoC; a walkie-talkie like group communications service [13]) service, a set of 
PoC-related Parlay X APIs is also installed on Parlay X GW. Then RMCC can initiate a PoC 
session among RMCC, RTMs, FAP, and even the victims/injuries. 
4. 雛型系統: ALLSurvive 
In this section, we describe a prototype called “ALLSurvive” based on the architecture 
introduced in the previous section. To show how “ALLSurvive” works, we take Japan Earthquake 
occurred in 2011 as example, and investigate the tsunami warning procedure as well as the rescue 
mission control for medical care. 
Figure 2 illustrates the geographical representation of the Japan Earthquake in IBM WsT 
simulator. The epicenter is at distance of 129 kilometers, east of Sendai, Honshu, Japan (marked 
by a star symbol in Figure 2). The inner concentric circle represents distance of 100 kilometers 
from the epicenter, while the outer circle represents 150 kilometers. In this example, there are 
three normal users: Alice is within the inner circle (i.e., with distance less than 100 kilometers), 
while Bob and Carol is between these two circles (i.e., with distance between 100 kilometers and 
150 kilometers).  
 Generally speaking, risk is inversely proportional to the distance from the epicenter. The 
urgency of notifying people is also inversely proportional to the distance. To ensure these three 
normal users having enough time to move to higher ground, Alice must be notified in tens of 
seconds, while Bob and Carol must be notified in one or two minutes. 
   9  
 
 
Figure 3. Tsunami Warning Procedure 
If, unfortunately, Alice is injured when she tries to move to higher ground, she may need 
medical care immediately. She sets up an emergency call to the PSAP to ask for help. The PSAP 
requests RMCC to organize a rescue/medical care mission for Alice. RMCC retrieves Alice’s 
information from xDMS and presence status of FAP/RTMs from PS. RMCC notices that the 
nearest rescue team is a little far from Alice, and its presence status is busy (i.e., the rescue team 
may not leave for Alice at once). RMCC also notices that Dave, one of the FAP, is close to Alice, 
and his presence status is available. RMCC immediately sets up a call to Dave and asks him for 
helping Alice. 
After confirmation from Dave, RMCC notifies Alice to keep calm and wait for Dave’s help. 
Dave’s presence status is updated as busy. If Alice’s mobile phone is a smartphone, she can see 
Dave approaching her on a map as illustrated in Figure 4. In this figure, the circle indicates 
distance of 5 km from Alice. Rescue Team is more than 5 km away from Alice, while Dave is 
within 5 km. If Alice wants, she can communicate with Dave when he is on the way. After 
helping Alice, Dave’s presence status is updated as available again. 
   11  
[2] Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC), http://ptwc.weather.gov/ 
[3] R. Chen, V. Shen, T. Wrobel and C. Lin, “Applying SOA and Web 2.0 to Telecom: legacy 
and IMS Next-Generation Architectures,” IEEE 5th International Conference on e-Business 
Engineering (ICEBE), 2008 
[4] H.-Y. Lee, R. Chen and Y.-B. Lin, “An Internet-mobile platform for NGN/IMS applications,” 
IEEE 7th International Conference on e-Business Engineering (ICEBE), 2010 
[5] R. Chen, M.-H. Tsai, T. Wrobel, J.-M. Chen, S.-H. Wang, S.-S. Ku, J.-H. Jung, and J.-Y. 
Jeng, “When Social Networking Meets the Next Generation Network,” unpublished 
[6] Y.-B. Lin, M.-H. Tsai and Y.-K. Tu, “IMS Emergency Services: A Preliminary Study,” 
IEEE Wireless Communications, 18(1): 6-14, 2011 
[7] M.-H. Tsai, Y.-B. Lin and H.-H. Wang, “Active Location Reporting for Emergency Call in 
UMTS IP Multimedia Subsystem,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 8(12): 
5837-5843, 2009 
[8] A. Hoechner, A. Y. Babeyko and S. V. Sobolev, “Enhanced GPS inversion technique 
applied to the 2004 Sumatra earthquake and tsunami,” Geophysical Research Letters, 35, 
L08310, 2008 
[9] G. Blewitt, C. Kreemer, W. C. Hammond, H.-P. Plag, S. Stein and E. Okal, “Rapid 
determination of earthquake magnitude using GPS for tsunami warning systems,” 
Geophysical Research Letters, 33, L11309, 2006 
[10] R. Samarajiva, “Mobilizing Information and Communications Technologies for Effective 
Disaster Warning: Lessons from the 2004 Tsunami,” New Media Society 7(6):731–747, 
2005 
[11] K. Smith and D. N. Petley, “Environmental Hazards: Assessing Risk and Reducing Disaster,” 
Routledge, New York, USA, 2009 
[12] S. Su and C.-L. Shih, “Modeling an emergency medical services system using computer 
simulation,” International Journal of Medical Informatics, 72: 57-72, 2003 
[13] M.-H. Tsai and Y.-B. Lin, “Talk Burst Control for Push-to-talk over Cellular,” IEEE 
Transactions on Wireless Communications, 7(7): 2612-2618, 2008 
 
  
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蔡孟勳 計畫編號：100-2218-E-006-015-MY2 
計畫名稱：IMS 緊急服務於救災之應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
