中文摘要 
此計畫為一連續性計畫(酪胺酸酶抑制劑與活性機轉之研究，NSC97-2221-E-037-002-)，
我們在今年承續之前的部分繼續建立酪胺酸酶的抑制篩選平臺，以斑馬魚、3D 人類皮膚模
擬器以得較佳的研究成果。 
位於毛髮、皮膚以及眼睛部位之黑色素形成過程中，酪胺酸酶被視為其合成的第一個速
率限制步驟的酵素；酪胺酸酶的活性取決於活性部位上結合的兩個銅離子。故此，螯合銅離
子即可抑制酪胺酸酶活性。近來，酪胺酸酶抑制劑在醫療藥物上的使用以及化粧品產業之應
用愈趨重要，目前有許多運用抑制黑色素形成的藥劑來針對皮膚色素沉澱以及色素異常的疾
病，而酪胺酸酶抑制劑是一種主要治療過度色素沉澱的有效藥物 (科學界目前仍以蘑菇酪胺
酸酶為探討模式)。天然萃取物首先研究於抑制磨菇酪胺酸酶活性，進而影響黑色素形成過
程，直到抑制整個黑色素生成。為了研發新的目標蛋白(人類酪胺酸酶)抑制劑，我們從電腦
模擬程式，辨認出可能有抑制酵素效果的三維結構圖，我們也同時分析研究人體纖維母細胞，
來評估抑制劑對於細胞存活率的影響。 
我們實驗室因此項計畫的經費已發表 10 篇國際論文，申請兩項專利，詳細資料可參考主
持人的國科會人才資料庫。 
 
關鍵詞：酪胺酸酶，黑色素細胞，斑馬魚，角質細胞，纖維母細胞，結構，銅離子，抑制與
機轉 
 
 
Abstract 
This is a following project from last year (酪胺酸酶抑制劑與活性機轉之研究，
NSC97-2221-E-037-002-) and continue to establish an human tyrosinase inhibition assay platform. 
In medical cosmetology, we will develop an in vivo zebrafish (Danio rerio) phenotype and 3D 
human skin equivalent to screen melanic inhibitors. 
Tyrosinases are known to be the first rate-limiting enzymes in the synthesis of melanin 
pigments responsible for coloring hair, skin and eyes. Tyrosinase activity depends on the binding 
and function of two copper ions at the active site. Therefore, chelating copper inhibits the activity 
tyrosinase. Recently, much attention has been drawn to the application of tyrosinase inhibitors 
occurring crude drugs to medical application and cosmetics business. There are now a variety of 
compounds including use to inhibit melanin synthesis in order to deal with skin pigmentation and 
disorder disease. The inhibition of tyrosinase is one of the major strategies to treat 
hyper-pigmentation, as potentially drugs. Natural compounds are first used to inhibit mushroom 
tyrosinase enzyme activity, then progresses until the catalysis of melanin is affected. For developing 
the new targeting protein, human tyrosinase, we used the 3-D structures to run computer screening 
to identify possible inhibitors of the enzymes. We will also develop human fibroblast assay to 
measure the cell viability of the inhibitors. 
 
Key words: Tyrosinase, melanocyte, zebrafish, keratinocyte, fibroblast, structure, Cu, inhibition and 
mechanism. 
 
compound. Nevertheless, in this part I still take attention on tyrosinase inhibitor. It can be classed 
into three parts: (i) competitive inhibition, such as arbutin. (ii) cu2+ chelation, such as kojic acid (iii) 
Cytotoxicity to melanocytes, such as Hydroquinone. 
 
Materials and methods 
Extraction and purification of linderanolide B and subamolide A  
Linderanolide B and subamolide A were isolated from the stems of C. subavenium as described 
previously In brief, the air-dried stems were extracted with methanol at room temperature and the 
methanol extract was obtained upon concentration under reduced pressure. The methanol extract, 
suspended in H2O, was partitioned with chloroform to give fractions soluble in chloroform and H2O. 
The chloroform soluble fraction was subjected to chromatograph over silica gel using 
n-hexane/ethyl acetate/methanol mixtures as eluents to produce five fractions. Part of fraction 1 was 
subjected to silica gel chromatography by eluting with n-hexane- ethyl acetate (30:1), enriched with 
ethyl acetate to furnish ten fractions (1-11-10). Fraction 1-3 was subjected to silica gel 
chromatography, eluting with n-hexane- ethyl acetate (40:1) and enriched gradually with ethyl 
acetate, to obtain three fractions (1-3-11-3-3). Fraction 1-3-2 (4.11 g), eluted with n-hexane- ethyl 
acetate (40:1), was further separated using silica gel column chromatography and preparative thin 
layer chromatography (n-hexane- ethyl acetate (30:1) and gave linderanolide B (123 mg) and 
subamolide A (38 mg) 
Assay on tyrosinase activity in vitro 
Tyrosinase activity was determined spectrophotometrically according to the method of 
Likhitwitayawuid and Sritularak (2001), with minor modifications. Assays were conducted in a 
96-well micro-plate, a spectrophotometer reader (ELISA, Molecular Devices) being used to 
determine the absorbance at 490 nm. Kojic acid was used as a positive control. The test substance 
was dissolved in aqueous DMSO (10.0 g/mL), and incubated with L-tyrosine (2.5 mg/mL) in 50 
mM phosphate buffer (pH 6.8). Then, 25 U/mL of mushroom tyrosinase in the same buffer was 
added, and the mixture was incubated at 37°C for 30 min. Tyrosinase inhibitory activity was 
determined at 490 nm by the following equation:  
% inhibition = 100%  {[(A - B) - (C - D)] / (A - B)}      eq. 1 
where A is the optical density (OD490) without test substance; B is the OD490 without test substance, 
but with tyrosinase; C is the OD490 with test substance; and D is the OD490 with test substance, but 
without tyrosinase. The data were listed in Table 1.  
 
Assay on cellular tyrosinase activity  
In human skin melanocytes, tyrosinase inhibition ability of (-)-N-formylanonaine was 
examined by the conversion of L-tyrosine and oxidation of L-dopa to dopaquinone. Cellular 
tyrosinase activity assay was based on the method of Yoshimura et al., (2001) with some 
modifications. HEMn-MP (105 per well) placed in 24-well micro-plate in 500 l of medium 
containing various concentrations of testing samples were incubated for 3 days. The sample-treated 
cells were washed with PBS and lysed with 0.5% Triton X-100/PBS. The lysate was mixed by 
vibration with 10 l of 10 mM L-tyrosine and 10 mM L-dopa in 0.1 M phosphate buffer (pH 6.8). 
After incubation at 37 °C for 3 h, the absorbance at 490 nm was measured on a spectrophotometer. 
 
 Linderanolide B
10 M 5 M 1 M 0.1 M 0.01 M
Subamolide A
10 M 5 M 1 M 0.1 M 0.01 M
Ctrl PTU Kojic acid‐MSH
 
Figure 4. After 48 hours of treatments of Linderanolide B or Subamolide A, the photos of 
HEMn-MP cells were taken in bright field microscope. Magnification is 200 without staining. Red 
arrows showed the HEMn-MP cells with bipolar shape morphology. 
 
0
25
50
75
100
Con
trol
1 μ
M
5 μ
M
10 
μM 1 μ
M
5 μ
M
10 
μM Arb
utin
Ko
jic 
acid PTU
Pi
gm
en
t co
nt
en
t (%
 of
 co
nt
ro
l)
Linderanolide B Subamolide A  
Figure 5. The quantitated effects of Linderanolide B and Subamolide A on the pigmentation levels 
of the zebrafish system. Arbutin, kojic acid and PTU were at 50 M as positive controls. 
 
H202
H211
H363
H180
H390
H367
Linderanolide B
(A)
(B)
H202
H211
H363
H180
H390
H367
Cu2+
Cu2+
Subamolide A (D)
(C)
 
Figure 6. (A) The proposed binding modes of Linderanolide B. (B) The enlarged part was the 
active site of human tyrosinase docking. (C) The proposed binding modes of Subamolide A, and (D) 
2009 12 05-09 ASCB 49th Annual Meeting  出國報告 
 
2009 12 05-09 本實驗室為了學習新的蛋白質-皮膚細胞作用，主持人特前往美國參加國
際研討會。 
 本屆美國細胞生物研討會是由 American Society for Cell Biology 主辦，在美國聖地牙哥市
海崖區的國際會議中心舉行。搭乘國內班機(長榮航空)需 14 小時的飛行時間。到了加州的 LA
後，再自行租車開往會場，約需 3 小時。開會地點：San Diego Convention Center (國際會議中
心)，位於聖地牙哥市，位屬近郊海邊；而旅館與會議地點之間有 20 分鐘的車程。美國細胞
生物研討會堪稱全美最重要生技大會，主題涵蓋了 55 種生物細胞、蛋白質、生物物理有關的
研究領域，一共舉辦超過 170 場演講及張貼約 2000 個壁報論文，報名人數多達三千多名，大
多為美國籍，今年共吸引 30 餘國、超過 100 家廠商參展，並於會議期間舉辦的各項專題研
討會、廠商成果發表會，可以說是盛況空前；也是生技業相互交流、展示研發成果最佳機會。 
 由於研究領域相當眾多，當拿到大會提供的各場演講及壁報論文的摘要後，便鎖定其中
約 40 場演講及約 250 多篇壁報論文準備仔細的聆聽及提問，尤其是關於皮膚細胞間的作用
力、黑色素生成。大會所有的演講，集中在 12 月 05-09 日，本人參與的場次主要與 X-ray 
crystallography、cell-free expression systems、membrane-protein structures 及 biophysic detection 
of protein-protein interactions 等領域有關。本次會議除每天的大型演講外，同時在十個演講廳
內進行不同領域的演講，我選擇了細胞間的作用力、生物大分子結構、蛋白質與 DNA 結構
解析、藥物設計及膜蛋白結構等相關的演講場次。美國在細胞生物學、結構生物方面無論研
究題目及技術的發展都是居於領導的地位，這些實驗技術及研究方向都是非常值得我們去學
習仿效的。 
此外，蛋白質特性及反應相關研究的儀器及方法是我最需要學習及了解的部份。同時在
會議現場的廠商展示攤位上也看到了一些結構相關儀器及新版本的軟體可以補足國內產品資
訊較慢的問題。在海報發表會場，我所發表的論文題目為“ (-)-N-Formylanonaine from Michelia 
alba as human tyrosinase inhibitor and antioxidant”。在會場上與其他研究與我的研究題目相關
的藥物設計領域的學者討論了許多研究內容獲益良多。藉由此次交流合作互動，申請人得以
有此交流互動平臺，思維激情碰撞，探詢合作新契機。 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/24
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以人類3維皮膚細胞及斑馬魚模擬系統，建立高效能皮膚美白藥物篩選模式
計畫主持人: 王惠民
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-037-005- 學門領域: 生化及生醫工程 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 抑制皮膚色素沉著之組合物及其用途
(英文) Composition for Inhibiting Melanogenesis and Use Thereof
成果歸屬機構
高雄醫學大學 發明人
(創作人)
王惠民,陳中一,溫志宏
技術說明
(中文) 決定皮膚、頭髮和眼睛的黑色素，在生成的過程中，酪胺酸酶為頭兩個速率決定
步驟之酵素。我們利用細胞與活體內兩種方式來量測皮膚黑色素沉著之抑制劑。
自香桂(Cinnamomum subavenium)莖部分離出純化合物，其中兩種 — 
Linderanolide B和subamolide A在低劑量時，於人類皮膚黑色素細胞及斑馬魚系
統便具有良好的抑制黑色素生成效果。從生物活性測試得知linderanolide B和
subamolide A具有抗酪胺酸酶活性之特質，顯示其能應用在醫療粧品上之潛力。
(英文) Tyrosinases are known to be the first two rate-limiting enzymes in the synthesis of 
melanin pigments responsible for coloring skin, hair and eyes. We evaluated the skin 
pigmentation inhibitor effects with both in vitro and in vivo systems to find skin 
whitening agent. Linderanolide B and subamolide A were isolated from the stems of 
Cinnamomum subavenium. These two herbal compounds were proved with good 
pigmentation inhibitory abilities and showed free cytotoxicities at low doses to human 
skin melanocytes and zebrafish systems. The results obtained from biological assays 
showed that linderanolide B and subamolide A possessed anti-tyrosinase properties, 
which exhibited potential application in medical cosmetology.
產業別 其他工業製品製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 化粧美容業、生技醫療業、精緻農業
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
化粧美容業、生技醫療業、精緻農業
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2008 國際化粧品科技研討會暨應用技術交流展示會 (台中，靜宜大學)，指導
學生-陳璽安，研究論文口頭發表第三名 - Skin Aging (Human-Lon protein)。
2009 國際化粧品科技研討會暨應用技術交流展示會 (台中，靜宜大學)，指導
學生-周怡廷，研究論文口頭發表第一名 - Michelia alba component as human 
tyrosinase inhibitor and antioxidant。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 ■洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
我們實驗室因此項計畫的經費已發表 10 篇國際論文，申請兩項專利，詳細資料可參考主
持人的國科會人才資料庫。 
我們同時完成人類皮膚細胞與活體實驗，結果顯示兩種純化合物皆可個別有效地抑制酪胺
酸酶活性與黑色素生成量，且不具細胞毒殺性。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
中華民國(亞洲)與美國之地區人種，多屬於黃種或白種人，經太陽(紫外線)曝晒後，相較
於深色系皮膚者易產生雀斑或黑斑等，更甚則會造成皮膚之病變而衍生為皮膚癌。 
我們在各國的專利局查閱有關 ＇Cinnamomum subavenium＇ 萃取物及其製造方法對於抑
制人類皮膚黑色素的生成，結果並無一篇。 
我們同時完成人類皮膚細胞與活體實驗，結果顯示兩種純化合物皆可個別有效地抑制酪胺
酸酶活性與黑色素生成量，且不具細胞毒殺性。 
1. 活體外(細胞實驗)：以人類正常皮膚細胞測試，顯示酪胺酸酶活性與黑色素生成量均
有效抑制，且代表可運用於人體之潛力。 
2. 活體內：利用斑馬魚之活體試驗，得知具有美白效果；且其劑量並不會造成斑馬魚危
害或死亡。 
本案發明創作技術可應用於化粧美容業、生技醫療業等；其主要發明目的是為因應全球紫
外線含量過高，刺激皮膚而加快黑色素生成，並伴隨罹患皮膚癌之機率。故本申請案已確
認所萃取之化合物能抑制酪胺酸酶活性，具有良好的抑制黑色素生成效果，並且使用人體
正常的皮膚細胞作為研究平臺。 
 
