 2
高性能鎂基奈米與非晶材料之研發－子計畫三 
高性能鎂基奈米與非晶合金複材之熱機與顯微分析 (3/3) 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－110－014－MY3 
執行期限：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：黃志青  國立中山大學材料與光電科學學系 
 
計畫參與人員：羅友杰、賴炎輝、陳海明、宋大豪、官聖堯、 
李敬仁、高強、周鴻昇、劉名哲、王穎任 
 
 
(1) Analysis of plastic strain and 
deformation mode of a Zr-based 
two-phase bulk metallic glass in 
compression 
 
H.M. Chen, X.H. Du, J.C. Huang,  
J.S.C. Jang, T.G. Nieh 
 
(Intermetallics, vol. 17, 2009, pp. 330-335) 
 
Abstract. A ductile phase-separated Zr-based bulk 
metallic glass (BMG) deformed to different strains at 
room temperature and low strain rate were 
characterized. The BMG samples were compressed 
to nominal strains of 3%, 7%, and 10%, after which 
the samples were unloaded for morphological 
observation using scanning electron microscopy.  
The morphological observation was subsequently 
used for the interpretation of the measured 
load-displacement curves.  It was found that the 
BMG exhibited apparent uniform deformation 
initially (at plastic strain <1%) and, then, visible 
local shear bands began to developed.  Afterwards, 
a principal shear band was soon developed and 
dominated the deformation process until fracture.  
In this study, we also found that the local shear strain 
varies along the principal shear plane and decreases 
monotonically from the shear band initiation site.  
 
Keywords: B. Glasses, metallic; B. Plastic 
deformation mechanisms; B. Mechanical properties 
at ambient temperature; F. mechanical testing. 
 
1. Introduction 
Over the past decades, bulk metallic glasses 
(BMGs) have attracted extensive interests due to 
their unique mechanical and physical properties, such 
as high strength up to 2 GPa, large limit of elastic 
deformation about 2%, good shaping and forming 
properties in the viscous state, reasonable corrosion 
resistance, as well as sufficient fatigue properties 
[1-4]. However, even for ductile Zr- or Pd-based 
BMGs, the application is still limited due to the lack 
of sufficient plasticity. As a result of the highly 
localized shear band formation [5,6], BMGs 
specimens often shear off at ~45o with respect to the 
loading axis along the major shear plane with a 
plastic strain <2% in compression and essentially 
zero ductility in tension [7]. Intensive efforts have 
been made and two promising approaches have been 
developed.  One approach is the intrinsic 
toughening by increasing the Poisson’s ratio [8,9] or 
the amount of free volume in BMG [10], and another 
approach is the extrinsic toughening by developing a 
composite microstructure with ductile metals 
dispersed within the glassy matrix or phase-separated 
dual phase glasses [11-17]. These approaches are 
designed with the goal to block or hinder propagating 
shear bands during deformation. 
Recently, several reports [8,10,14] claimed a 
remarkable compressive plasticity of over 50% 
(some are even over 150% as termed 
“superplastic”flow) in BMG at room temperature. In 
their stress-strain curves, the remarkable plasticity is 
accompanied by significant hardening characteristics 
and the deformed specimens exhibit a dramatic 
change in shape/appearance. However, as pointed out 
by Song et al. [18], because of the highly localized 
shear band formation in BMG the interpretation of 
stress-strain curve must be accompanied with an 
understanding of the specific deformation mode. 
Thus, it is important to monitor the change of sample 
shape during deformation in order to properly 
correlate with the stress-strain data. In the present 
study, compression experiments were conducted with 
a ductile, phase-separated Zr-based BMG. Samples 
were compressed to different predetermined strains 
and examined and analyzed. The morphological 
change of deformed samples was then used for the 
interpretation of mechanical measurements. 
 
2. Experimental 
The phase-separated two-glassy-phase 
Zr63.8Ni16.2Cu15Al5 (in at.%) BMG [17] was used for 
the current study.  Cylindrical rods with a diameter 
of 2 mm were first prepared by arc melting pure 
elements under a purified argon atmosphere and then 
in situ suction casting into a water-cooled copper 
mould.  Compression tests were conducted on the 
cylindrical specimens with a nominal aspect ratio of 
2:1 at an initial strain rate of 5 x 10–4 s–1 at room 
temperature using an Instron 5582 universal testing 
machine. Two ends of the compression specimens 
were ground and polished to ensure the parallelism 
 4
caused by these secondary shear bands are obviously 
smaller than the principal one. The number of shear 
bands in this 10% specimen is also noted to be 
significantly higher than that in the 7% specimen, 
suggesting shear band operation is more intense at a 
higher plastic strain.  Figure 4(c) is a SEM 
micrograph taken from the opposite side of the 
deformed specimen, also showing a significant offset 
displacement associated with the shear band 
initiation.  
Judging from the measurements in Table 1, as 
well as the L-D curves in Fig. 2 to Fig. 4, it is 
reasonable to argue that the rod BMG specimens 
have undergone apparently uniform deformation at 
an initial ~1% plastic strain.  After this stage, one of 
the shear bands would gradually develop into a major 
one and soon takes over the plastic deformation; the 
overall observed plastic strain would be largely 
contributed by this principal shear band.  For the 
7% specimen, the principal shear accounts for about 
71% of the total plastic strain.  For the 10% 
specimen, this value increases to about 87%.   
 
The continuously strained specimen 
In the current study, a Zr-BMG specimen 
normally fails after about 20-30% engineering strain, 
as demonstrated in Fig. 1. However, there are also 
some cases that a compressed specimen exhibits 
peculiar stress-strain behavior.  As shown in the 
inset in Fig. 5(a), the stress-strain curve exhibit 
temporary load drop, followed by continuous load 
increase until the engineering strain is over 60%.  
Assuming a uniform deformation (which is actually 
not), the converted true stress-true strain curve gives 
a true strain value of over 100%, similar to the 
“superplastic”-like behavior previously reported 
[8,14].  Meanwhile, the converted “engineering 
stress” reaches a remarkable value of 9 GPa, and the 
converted “true stress” also reaches nearly 3 GPa, as 
shown in Fig. 5(a).  In addition, the stress-strain 
curve appears to exhibit a strong work hardening.   
However, a careful examination of the deformed 
specimen shown in Fig. 5(b) offers a completely 
different conclusion.  It is evident in Fig. 5(b) that 
the upper and lower halves of the sheared specimen 
did not break into two pieces catastrophically.  
Instead, these two halves were blocked by the upper 
and bottom platens, welded together, and then 
continued to be compressed as a whole.  If the two 
halves are closely welded and compressed to a large 
extent, the final specimen would look like a single 
pancake full of numerous shear bands (Fig. 5(c)), 
similar to that observed in the compression 
specimens with an initial height to diameter aspect 
ratio of 1:1 or less [20-23].  The extraordinary high 
“engineering stress” or “true stress” is, in fact, an 
artifact caused by the nearly doubling of the 
compression cross-sectional area.  Taking into 
account of the actual cross-sectional area seen in Fig. 
5(b), the flow stress is calculated to be 1.6-1.7 GPa, a 
value that is similar to that observed in Fig. 1.  
Obviously, the apparent “work hardening” is also an 
artifact.  This demonstrates a fact that it is 
dangerous to interpret the mechanical behavior 
directly from the stress-strain curve without the 
knowledge of the deformation mode of the test 
sample, which has been pointed out by Song et al. 
[18]. 
 
Local sliding strain 
From Figs. 2(b), 3(b) and 4(b), it is evident that 
the principal shear always initiates from the corner of 
specimen-compression platform contact.  This is 
somewhat anticipated since there is an unavoidable 
friction between the specimen and compression 
platform.  It is also noted that the local shear strain 
varies along the shear plane, specifically, the initial 
sliding distance along the principal shear plane Δlinitial 
(as well as the resolved vertical distance Δlv,initial) 
appears to be the largest at the initiation site, and 
reduces monotonically along the shear plane.  
Taking the 7% specimen as an example, the shear in 
the sample is schematically illustrated in Fig. 6.  
Figure 6(b), which corresponds to Fig. 3(b), shows 
Δlv,initial (=0.196 mm) at the upper right corner where 
the principal shear band was initiated, Δlv,mid (=0.168 
mm) at the midpoint along the shear plane, and Δlv,end 
(=0.114 mm) the surface offset.  In the figure, 
Δlv,initial can be measured by restoring the deformed 
part to its original undeformed state, as shown in Fig. 
6(c).  These three shear displacements are converted 
into the local strain values of 4.73% (initial), 4.06% 
(midpoint), and 2.75% (end), respectively.  
Evidently, the local shear strain is a function of 
distance along the shear plane; this is plotted in Fig. 
7 in which data from both the 7% and 10% 
specimens are included.  The local shear strain 
decreases monotonically with distance from the 
location where the shear was initiated.  
Thus, the principal shear does not take place in 
an integrated fashion.  In other words, it differs 
from the sliding of two rigid bodies.  Apparently, 
some of the shear displacements (or strain) were 
interrupted by the crossing shear bands (nearly 90o 
with respect to this principal shear) or stored within 
the specimen.  In either case, the principal shear 
experiences certain resistance along the shear 
direction, in a manner analogous to have the shear 
band diverted or deflected by obstacles in a BMG 
composite.  For a brittle BMG, once the principal 
shear band is developed under compression, it 
propagates immediately after yielding and fails 
catastrophically.  For the current phase-separated 
BMG which is relatively plastic, a propagating shear 
band encounters resistance or friction resulting from 
the mirco-scaled separated harder glassy phase.  
The delay of shear band propagation and shear band 
interruption cause the principal shear band to slow 
down and, thus, promote the initiation of secondary 
shear bands from other orientations allowing a 
 6
irreversible structure rearrangements occur in the 
current model, along with annihilation of excessive 
free volumes. This behavior might be able to retard 
the damage growth of metallic glass and enhance 
their fatigue life. The relation between the free 
volume and the flow defects in the Zr-Cu metallic 
glass is also discussed. 
 
Keywords: molecular-dynamics simulation; metallic 
glass; fatigue; dynamic recovery 
 
1.  Introduction 
The bulk metallic glasses (BMGs) are potential 
metallic materials due to their interesting properties, 
such as the high strength, high elastic strain limit, 
and high wear/corrosion resistance [1-3]. However, 
the insufficient plastic deformation is the drawback 
for applications. Tremendous efforts have been made 
to improve the mechanical properties of BMGs under 
monotonic or cyclic loading. The concept of free 
volume is viewed as the main defects in the metallic 
glasses, because free volumes can offer the requisite 
special sites for the atomic shear movement to 
deform in the glass. The movement of free volumes 
results in the formation of the shear-transition zone 
(STZ), which is believed to be the basic flow defect 
contributing local strain in the metallic glass upon 
loading [4-6]. Many studies have investigated the 
relationship between the free volume and the 
formation of shear bands [7-9]. It is generally 
thought that the shear bands could form as a result of 
the movement and accumulation of free volumes. 
Atomic simulations also show that the local free 
volumes increase in the BMG provides an open space 
for the movements of atoms and is associated with 
the localization of shear band, and the shear 
softening results from the production of excessive 
free volume in the shear band [10-12].  
Free volumes and shear bands are also relevant 
to the fatigue damage mechanism of BMGs. The 
shear band formation and propagation usually go 
along with the local increase of free volumes and 
crack sites within BMGs due to the weakness in the 
shear bands or shear-off steps [13,14], subsequently 
leading a fracture and fatigue damage. A simple four 
component Lennard-Jones simulation model was 
used to study the fatigue-damage behaviors in 
metallic glasses and proposed that the free volume 
level would increase and would be localized with 
each deformation cycle during the cyclic loading in 
both the shear and tension tests [15]. They believed 
that this occurrence would induce the initiation of 
fatigue damage and/or shear-band formation in 
BMGs. It follows that, if we can reduce the free 
volumes in BMGs, the plastic deformation and 
fatigue damage might be retarded and the fatigue life 
might be extended. It was found that the crack 
growth and fatigue lifetime will increase with 
decreasing free volumes in the glass matrix, but the 
fatigue-crack-growth rates are insensitive to 
free-volume variations [16]. With the above limited 
information, the theoretical model and basic 
fatigue-damage mechanism in fatigue behavior of 
BMGs still need further exploration.  
Lately, experimental studies show a 
sample-size effect on the BMG mechanical 
properties. Under a certain small size scale, the 
development of shear band becomes homogeneous 
deformation when the metallic glasses are subject to 
tension or compression loading [17-19]. The aim of 
this paper is to examine the relationship between the 
variation of free volume and the basic development 
of shear deformation events under cyclic loading in 
small size scale, and to further understand the 
mechanism of deformation retardation under 
cyclic-loading process. 
 
2.  Simulation details 
The current simulation model consisted of 
47,424 atoms, in a mixture of 50% (atomic percent) 
Zr and 50% Cu in a box size of 9.5 nm × 9.5 nm × 
9.5 nm. Atomic interactions between each particle 
were described by the many-body and tight-binding 
potential using the following equation [20,21]: 
∑∑ ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−+⎪⎭
⎪⎬
⎫
⎪⎩
⎪⎨
⎧
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−−=
j
ij
j
ij
i d
d
pA
d
d
qE 1exp12exp
0
2
1
0
2ξ
, 
where ξ  is an effective hopping integral, dij is the 
distance between atoms, i and j, and do is the 
first-neighbor distance. The parameters, A, p, and q, 
are determined by the experimentally obtained values 
of the cohesive energy, lattice parameter, bulk 
modulus, and shear elastic constants. The parameters 
of the tight-binding potential for Zr and Cu employed 
in the current simulation were proposed by Duan et 
al. [21]. The potentials have been shown to be in 
good agreement with the experiments. The 
Nose-Hoover chain method [22,23] was used to 
control the temperature and pressure to obtain the 
reasonable thermodynamic state in the whole 
MD-simulation process as well as to bring the 
imposed tension loading on the simulation model. 
Periodic boundary conditions were employed in all 
three dimensions. The glassy structure was obtained 
by quenching the sample model at a cooling rate 5 
K/ps (ps = 10-12 s) from 2,000 down to 300 K, 
followed by an equilibrium for 30,000 time steps. 
The glass transition was found to be about 650 K 
according to the volume versus temperature diagram. 
The average density is about 7.29 g/cm3, and the 
potential energy at this as-quenched state is about - 
5.233 eV. Because the difference of densities 
between 1 K/ps and 10 K/ps is 0.096 %, the density 
is considered insensitive to the cooling rate of the 
Zr-Cu BMG [12]. 
Both the stress-control and strain-control 
modes are included in this simulation. The uniaxial 
stress-control mode was first applied along the Z axis 
to implement the tension cyclic-loading fatigue tests. 
To induce the localization of deformation in the 
simulation model during the cyclic-loading process, 
 8
(including the B19 lattice). For a FCC cluster, the 
predominant pairs would be the 1421 ones; while in 
the HCP cluster, there are typically around 50% of 
the 1421 and 50% of the 1422 pairs. The 1441 and 
1661 pairs are characteristic of the body-centered 
cubic (BCC or B2) structure. The 1551, 1541, and 
1431 pairs are the common short-range local 
structures of an amorphous or liquid state. Finally, 
the 1321 is a packing related to the rhombohedra, and 
this pair tends to evolve when the icosahedra 1551 
packing is formed and can be viewed as the side 
product accompanying the icosahedra atomic 
packing [32]. 
The corresponding HA indices for the most 
severe strain-control mode at εmax = 10% 
(corresponding to σmax ~ 3 GPa) are shown in Figs. 
3(a) - 3(c) as a function of loading cycle. Similar 
behavior is also seen for the HA evolution in the 
stress-control mode at σmax = 2 GPa but not shows 
here. From Fig. 3, both the close-packed and 
liquid-like indices have an apparent fluctuation with 
the cyclic loading but do not show any continuously 
decreasing or increasing trend throughout cycling, 
irrespective of the stress-control or strain-control 
mode. This trend means that the local structures with 
short-range ordering were indeed changed in 
response to the cyclic loading, but could be relaxed 
back to the amorphous state upon unloading or 
reversed loading. This detailed HA-pair analysis 
shown in Fig. 3 explains why there is no major 
change in the PRDF curves of Fig. 2(b). Although 
shear deformations are accumulated with increasing 
cyclic loading, it does not cause permanent structure 
transitions in the current Zr-Cu amorphous alloy. 
However, few crystal-like atomic clusters, such 
as close-packed or B2 structures, are indeed detected 
during the simulation process, as shown in Fig. 4. It 
is found that these crystal-like atoms always 
appeared near or within the shear transition zones 
(STZs), but not necessarily appeared at the places 
with the highest local strains. The appearance of the 
close-packed atoms is very interesting, because the 
formation of crystal-like clusters can be regarded as 
the precursors for the subsequent crystallization or 
the candidate of crystal nuclei [33]. Unlike the 
nucleation in quenched liquids, such ordered atoms 
in the simulated specimen did not congregate 
together to form larger clusters or keep on growing in 
the amorphous matrix. Instead, they simply appeared 
as an unstable state, and would appear and, then, 
disappear during cyclic loading. Throughout the 
simulation, such crystal-like atoms occurrences are 
rather rare, and did not have the ability to grow and 
form larger crystalline nuclei during the course of 
cyclic loading. The occasional occurrence of unstable 
local structures cannot result in the fatigue-induced 
crystallization in the current Zr-Cu amorphous alloy. 
This finding is in agreement with the fatigue studies 
of Zr-based BMGs [34]. 
 
4.  Microscopic deformation of cyclic loading 
To observe the deformation events at the 
atomic scale, there are two methods usually 
employed to identify the structural changes during 
the deformation, namely, the atomic-bond rotation 
angle (ABRA) change of the nearest-neighbor 
atomic-bond vector before and after loading [11] and 
the mean-squares difference methods [35]. However, 
there is almost no difference between the results of 
such two methods for the current case. Therefore, we 
present the ABRA results to demonstrate where the 
local shear strains appear under cyclic loading. 
Figures 5(a) to 5(c) show the excessive strain 
distribution of a slice parallel to the xz plane of the 
Zr-Cu amorphous alloy during and after 10, 50, and 
100 tensile fatigue cycles under the stress-control 
mode at σmax = 2 GPa. The 2D sliced plots in Fig. 5 
are extracted from our 3D simulation results for the 
ease of presentation. In these images, the green-color 
sphere indicates the higher strain levels, while the 
blue-color sphere indicates small (or zero) strains. 
During cyclic loading, it can be seen that there are 
two kinds of deformation mechanism in atomic scale 
concurrently to dominate the deformation process. 
One is the plastic deformation with the reversible 
atomic rearrangement, and the other is the plastic 
deformation with the irreversible atomic 
rearrangement. The similar phenomenon is the 
reduction of the free energy around the deformed 
areas. From Fig. 5, most of individual excessive 
strains would accumulate with increasing cycle 
number. In the simulation result of Zink et al. [36], 
an individual STZ has been suggested to be 15 Å in 
diameter or so, corresponding to approximately 120 
atoms for the CuTi glass model. In our simulation 
results, these irreversible-deformation atoms 
constructed the independent STZs distributed in the 
metallic glass stochastically at the early stages of the 
current simulation, as shown in Fig. 5(a). At this 
initial stage, the STZs in Fig. 5(a) with a higher strain 
level in a green color have a size about 10 - 20 Å, 
consistent with the finding of Zink et al. [36]. Hence, 
the irreversible events dominate the majority of the 
deformation and lead to the development of STZs 
under fatigue loading. With increasing tensile loading 
cycles, the larger plastic-strain zone is originated 
from the connection of each individual STZ, as 
shown in Fig. 5(b). Although these developments of 
STZs are generated and grew gradually in the matrix, 
the growth rate of shear deformation appears to 
become slower in the medium and final stages as 
compared with that in the early stage under the 
stress-control mode at σmax = 2 GPa, even reaching 
one hundred cycles, as depicted in Fig. 5(c). 
To keep tracing the subsequent growth of shear 
deformations in cyclic loading, the glass sample is 
intentionally applied using a cyclic strain-control test 
to hasten the growth of shear deformations. Since the 
induced σmax level reaches nearly 3 GPa, and the 
strain level for each cycle reaches nearly 10% in the 
 10
distribution of the lower-density region. Overall, the 
density profiles in Fig. 9 suggest the 
semi-homogenous distribution of the free volume 
within the current Zr50Cu50 metallic glass under 
cyclic loading. The free volumes are exhausted at 
one place and rearranged at another place in the 
matrix. It is found that the localized free volume 
would contract and shrink into an equiaxed shape 
periodically when the system is loaded, and relaxed 
along a specific direction when the system is 
unloaded. Through the cyclic contraction and 
relaxation of the localized free volume, the local 
strain could accumulate in the current system, 
resulting in the development of shear flows during 
the cyclic-loading process gradually. Although the 
density profile could not precisely pinpoint where the 
excessive free volumes are, it still explains the 
relationship between the free volume and the 
development of shear deformations in the BMG. In 
the uniaxial tension loading [12], free volumes can 
be apparently increased at the places with the largest 
strain due to the stress concentration. But in the 
current cyclic loading, the density or free volume 
distribution appears to be more uniform than that in 
the uniaxial monotonic loading. The local strains 
during fatigue can continue developing via the 
generation/exhaustion of excessive free volumes in 
the cyclic process. 
 
6.  The phenomenon of dynamic recovery 
It is noted that the stress cycles would differ for 
the elastic and plastic regimes. Therefore, we have 
conducted simulations for the strain control mode to 
three different maximum strain levels, namely, 2.5%, 
5% and 10% strain. Figures 10(a) and (b) are the 
stress-strain curves for 2.5% (nearly elastic regime) 
and 10% strain (highly plastic regime). The curve in 
Fig. 10(a) is basically within the elastic range and is 
similar to the stress control results, exhibiting a 
nearly linear relation to applied stress. It also means 
the energy input from the applied stress is fully 
loaded and unloaded in each cycle. Contrarily, the 
stress-strain curve in Fig. 10(b) shows a mechanical 
hysteresis; the cyclic deformation curve can be 
divided into four parts: tensile loading, tensile 
unloading, compressive loading, and compressive 
unloading. The energy loss during loading and 
unloading suggests that there have some activities 
occurred, such as long-range atomic movement or 
dynamic relaxation/recovery in the Zr-Cu amorphous 
alloy. 
In the crystalline materials, dynamic recovery 
proceeds mainly via the rearrangement of 
dislocations cell walls or subgrain boundaries. And 
dynamic recovery occurs more easily in metals with 
high stacking-fault energy. In amorphous structures, 
local atoms suffered shear deformation could result 
in stacking-fault-like energy [39,40], and the 
derivative of this stacking fault energy could become 
the resistance traction to hold back the highly 
localized shearing in the metallic glass. This event 
could cause the local instability of the deformed 
atomic clusters, and thereby dynamic recovery could 
be induced to occur via the mutual activation of STZ 
groups that are discretely generated by the cyclic 
deformation. This behavior is similar to the model of 
reversible/irreversible structural relaxation of 
metallic glasses [41-43], but it is nearly diffusionless, 
different from the thermal recovery caused by 
structural relaxation in high-temperature annealing or 
creep. The cyclic deformation at room temperature 
can also provide mechanical-energy input for the 
relaxation reaction. 
The self-repairing structural relaxation and 
dynamic recovery of metallic glasses under cyclic 
loading is proposed below. When an amorphous 
structure is achieved by quenching, it may be 
composed of icosahedral local short-range ordering, 
network-forming clusters medium-range ordering, 
and other unidentified-random local structures 
[41,42]. With the complex atomic packing, there are 
some places that are more easy to undergo structural 
relaxation (e.g., with a higher degree of loose bonds 
and free volumes), termed as the relaxation centers 
(RCs) in the metallic glasses [43,44]. Some of them 
are regarded as the reversible relaxation centers 
(RRCs) and others irreversible relaxation centers 
(IRRCs) [43,44]. The distribution and organization of 
such relaxation centers are believed to be sensitive to 
cooling rate. The RRCs are inherent with a more 
symmetrical potential barrier state, as depicted in Fig. 
11(a). When the local atoms around RRCs are 
subjected to local shear stress, atoms are separated 
from their original positions into a new atomic 
arrangement. The energy states of the original and 
new atomic arrangements are both at the similar 
semi-stable level, and parts of new atomic 
arrangements belonging to RRCs tend to recover 
back to their original atomic arrangement state upon 
the applied stress is relieved or during reversed 
loading. Such atomic arrangement back and forth is 
reversible, and occurs predominantly when the 
applied fatigue stress/strain is small and within the 
elastic regime, for example, in the stress or strain 
control mode to around 2-2.5% strain. The 
fatigue-loaded Zr-Cu metallic glass, though subjected 
to long-cycle fatigue, still behaves undamaged, as if 
there have been local self-repairing dynamic 
recovering mechanisms during cyclic deformation.   
On the other hand, The IRRCs are inherent 
with an asymmetrical potential barrier state, as 
shown in Fig. 11(b). Parts of atoms belonging to 
IRRCs, under shear stress, would like to jump into a 
more compatible and stable state (with a lower 
energy) while the other atoms go to fill a vacant free 
volume. The occurrence of such irreversible plastic 
events would lead STZs to keep on accumulating and 
growing gradually inside the amorphous material. 
Such local plastic events during structural 
relaxation/recovery would benefit the annihilation or 
 12
4. F. Spaepen, Acta Metall. 25, 407 (1977). 
5. A.S. Argon, Acta Metall. 27, 47 (1979). 
6. P.S. Steif, F. Spaepen, J.W. Hutchinson, Acta 
Materi. 30, 447(1982). 
7. W.J. Wright, T.C. Hufnagel, W.D. Nix, J. Appl. 
Phys. 93, 1432 (2003). 
8. B. P. Kanungo, S.C. Glade, P.A. Kumar, K.M. 
Flores, Intermetallics 12, 1073 (2004). 
9. C.A. Schuh, T.C. Hufnagel, U. Ramamurty, Acta 
Mater. 55, 4067 (2007). 
10. F. Albano, M.L. Falk, J. Chem. Phys. 122, 
154508 (2005). 
11. Q. K. Li, M. Li, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 241903 
(2006). 
12. Q. K. Li, M. Li, Phys. Rev. B. 75, 094101 
(2007). 
13. G.Y. Wang, P.K. Liaw, W.H. Peter, B. Yang, Y. 
Yokoyama, M.L. Benson, B.A. Green, M.J. 
Kirkham, S.A. Wihte, T.A. Saleh, R.L. 
McDaniels, R.V. Steward, R.A. Buchanan, C.T. 
Liu, C.R. Brooks, Intermetallics 12, 885 (2004). 
14. G.Y. Wang, P.K. Liaw, W.H. Peter, B. Yang, M. 
Freels, Y. Yokoyama, M.L. Benson, B.A. Green, 
T.A. Saleh, R.L. McDaniels, R.V. Steward, R.A. 
Buchanan, C.T. Liu, C.R. Brooks, Intermetallics 
12, 1219 (2004). 
15. K.K. Cameron, R.H. Dauskardt, Scripta Mater. 
54, 349 (2006). 
16. M.E. Launey, R. Busch, J.J. Kruzic, Acta Mater. 
56, 500 (2008). 
17. A. Donohue, F. Spaepen, R.G. Hoagland, and A. 
Misra, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 241905 (2007). 
18. H. Guo, P.F. Yan, Y.B. Wang, J. Tan, Z.F. Zhang, 
M.L. Sui, and E. Ma, Nat. Mater. 6, 735 (2007). 
19. Z.W. Shan, J. Li, Y.Q. Cheng, A.M. Minor, S.A. 
Syed Asif, O.L. Warren, E. Ma, Phys. Rev. B 77, 
155419 (2008). 
20. F. Cleri, V. Rosato, Phys. Rev. B 48, 22 (1993). 
21. G. Duan, D. Xu, Q. Zhang, G. Zhang, T. Cagin, 
W.L. Johnson, W.A. Goddard III, Phys. Rev. B 
71, 224208 (2005). 
22. G.J. Martyna, M.E. Tuckerman, D.J. Tobias, M.L. 
Klein, Molec. Phys. 87, 1117 (1996). 
23. M.E. Tuckerman, G.J. Martyna, J. Phys. Chem. 
B 104, 159 (2000). 
24. Y.H. Lai, C.J. Lee, Y.T. Cheng, H.S. Chou, H.M. 
Chen, X.H. Du, C.I. Chang, J.C. Huang, S.R. 
Jian, J.S.C. Jang, T.G. Nieh, Scripta Mater. 58, 
890 (2008). 
25. C.J. Lee, J.C. Huang, T.G. Nieh, Appl. Phys. Lett. 
91, 161913 (2007). 
26. G.P. Potirniche, M.F. Horstemeyer, B. Jelinek, 
G.J. Wagner, Int. J. Fatigue 27, 1179 (2005).  
27. G.P. Potirniche, M.F. Horstemeyer, P.M. Gullett, 
B. Jelinek, Proc. R. Soc. A 462, 3707 (2006). 
28. Q. K. Li, M. Li, Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 031910 
(2005). 
29. L.Tayebi, Ch.E. Lekka, G.A. Evangelakis, Phys. 
Stat. Sol. 205, 2603 (2008). 
30. J.D. Honeycutt, H.C. Andersen, J. Phys. Chem. 
91, 4950 (1987). 
31. J.J. Kim, Y. Choi, S. Suresh, A.S. Argon, Science 
295, 654 (2002). 
32. Y.C. Lo, J.C. Huang, S.P. Ju, and X.H. Du, Phys. 
Rev. B 76, 024103 (2007). 
33. L.J. Peng, J.R. Morris, Y.C. Lo, Phys. Rev. B 78, 
012201 (2008) 
34. C.P. Chuang, E.W. Huang, P.K. Laiw, 
unpublished research, 2008. 
35. M.L. Falk, J.S. Langer, Phys. Rev. E 57, 7192 
(1998). 
36. M. Zink, K. Samwer, W.L. Johnson, S.G. Mayr, 
Phys. Rev. B 73, 172203 (2006). 
37. Y. Shi, M.L. Falk, Phys. Rev. B 73, 214201 
(2006). 
38. V.V. Bulatov, A.S. Argon, Modell. Simul. Mater. 
Sci. Eng. 2, 203 (1994). 
39. F. Shimizu, S. Ogata, J. Li, Acta Mater. 54, 4293 
(2006). 
40. F. Shimizu, S. Ogata, J. Li, Mater. Trans. 48, 
2923 (2007). 
41. H.W. Sheng, W.K. Luo, F.M. Alamgir, J.M. Bai, 
E. Ma, Nature 439 419 (2006).  
42. H. Tanaka, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 351, 3396 
(2005). 
43. V.I. Belyavsky, K. Csach, V.A. Khonik, V.A. 
Mikhailov, V. Ocelik, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 241, 
105 (1998). 
44. V.A. Khonik, A.T. Kosilov, V.A. Mikhailov, V.V. 
Sviridov, Acta Mater. 46, 3399 (1998). 
45. G. Kumar, Hong X. Tang1, J. Schroers, Nature 
457, 868 (2009). 
 
(3) Flow serration and shear band 
propagation in bulk metallic glasses 
 
H. M. Chen and J. C. Huang,  
S. X. Song, T. G. Nieh, J. S. C. Jang 
(Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 94, 2009, pp. 141914) 
 
Abstract. Flow serration in bulk metallic glasses 
(BMGs) was analyzed using high-sensitivity strain 
gauges. Based on the displacement-time profile for 
one serration, shear-band propagating speed was 
determined and found to be insensitive to the applied 
strain rates. The disappearance of serration at high 
strain rates is a result that the signal of displacement 
burst was overwhelmed by the applied strain rate. In 
comparison with the ductile Pd-based and brittle 
Mg-based BMGs, the ductility of BMGs appears to 
be closely related to the dynamics during shear band 
propagation. 
 
Due to highly localized shear band 
formation,1,2 the plastic deformation in BMGs at 
room temperature is inhomogeneous. Promising 
strategies have been developed to overcome the 
dilemma.3-5 These approaches are designed with the 
 14
with the results of Jiang et al.,12 who observed more 
but fewer shear band at higher strain rates than lower 
strain rates in a Zr-based BMG. 
We notice the disappearance of serration in the 
stress-strain curve at high strain rates. In principle, 
flow serration can only be detected when the 
crosshead speed (or applied strain rate) is lower than 
the shear-band propagating speed. In the current 
experiment for Pd40Ni40P20, the average shear-band 
propagating speed (~400 μm/s) at a low strain rate is 
~500 times faster than the applied crosshead speed 
(0.78 μm/s). By contrast, at a higher strain rate, the 
corresponding shear-band propagating speed (~370 
μm/s) is only about 10 times faster than the applied 
crosshead speed (43 μm/s). When the crosshead 
speed is approaching to the shear-band propagating 
speed, the shear band propagation would be 
overwhelmed by the applied crosshead speed and 
flow serration would disappear. This explains the 
absence of flow serration at high strain rates reported 
in the literature.13 For example, Mukai et al.14 
showed a decreasing serration phenomenon with 
increasing strain rate in the Pd40Ni40P20 BMG and 
serration completely vanished when strain rate was 
over 1x10-1 s-1. Therefore, the disappearance of 
serration at high strain rates is not caused by the 
absence of shear band formation or a change of shear 
band propagation speed. It is rather caused by the 
fact that the shear band speed and crosshead speed 
are so close that the signature of displacement burst 
is overshadowed by the travel of applied crosshead. 
In other words, when the slope of the 
displacement-time curve prior to Step I is close to 
that for Step II, serration will disappear. 
We also made attempts to investigate the shear 
band dynamics in another metallic glasses, the brittle 
Mg-based BMG system. A summary of flow 
serration in two different BMGs, the brittle 
Mg58Cu31Y6Nd5 and the ductile Pd40Ni40P20, 
compressed at a low strain rate of 2x10-4 s-1 is listed 
in Table I. As shown in Table I, the first onset of 
displacement burst (~0.8σmax) is similar for both 
alloy systems. For the current Pd-based BMG, the 
average propagating speeds in Stage 1 and Stage 2 
are 317 μm/s and 398 μm/s, respectively. In 
comparison with the serration of two BMGs in Stage 
1 (Since there is no apparent Stage 2 for the brittle 
Mg-based BMG), the average propagating speed for 
the brittle Mg58Cu31Y6Nd5 (~366 μm/s) is faster than 
that for the ductile Pd40Ni40P20 (~317 μm/s).  
This result is well consistent with our general 
sense that the more ductile BMG will show the 
slower shear band propagation. In early deformation 
stage (Stage 1), the brittle Mg-based BMG seems 
unlikely to resist against the travel of the faster 
shear-band propagation, leading to a catastrophic 
failure. By contrast, the ductile Pd-based BMG 
experiences the slower shear band propagation, and, 
even after yielding (Stage 2), the ductile Pd-based 
BMG is still capable of accommodating the faster 
shear band propagation (398 μm/s) till failure. Herein 
we point out that the dynamics during shear band 
propagation plays an important role on the ductility 
for metallic glasses. 
The shear band propagation consists of three 
steps: acceleration, steady state, and deceleration, 
indicating the continuous dissipation of kinetic 
energy carried by a travelling shear band. Taking into 
account of the integral energy under one serration in 
the stress-strain curve, the average kinetic energy 
stored during each serration for the Pd- and 
Mg-based BMGs is estimated to be ~1.6x10-4 J and 
~6.0x10-6 J, respectively. For the ductile 
phase-separated Zr BMG,5 it is estimated to be 
~3.0x10-4 J. Notably, the kinetic energy is much 
higher in the Pd- and Zr-based BMGs, suggesting 
that the Pd- and Zr-based BMGs are able to 
accommodate a larger kinetic energy till failure. 
Even in comparison with the kinetic energy in Stage 
1 for both BMGs, the average value (7.2x10-5 J) for 
the Pd-based BMG is still much higher than that for 
Mg-based BMG. The failure strain of BMGs is 
related to bond breaking and shear band formation, 
and in-term related to the glass transition temperature, 
shear and bulk modulus, and Poisson ratio, etc. Here, 
we note that the kinetic energy for one serration also 
exhibits a direct relationship with the compression 
ductility for the three BMGs: ductile phase-separated 
Zr BMG (3.0x10-4 J and >10% plastic strain) > Pd 
BMG (1.6x10-4 J and ~3-5% plastic strain) > brittle 
Mg BMG (6.0x10-6 J and ~0% plastic strain), as 
illustrated in Fig. 4. The data on the Au and Cu-based 
BMGs, obtained in our parallel study, are also 
included for comparison.  
In summary, the shear-band propagating speed 
is insensitive to the applied strain rates within the 
range of 2x10-4-1x10-2 s-1. For the ductile Pd-based 
and brittle Mg-based BMGs, the shear-band 
propagating speed in Stage 1 for Mg58Cu31Y6Nd5 
(~366 μm/s) is faster than that for Pd40Ni40P20 (~317 
μm/s). Based on the comparison with the plastic 
strain and the kinetic energy of five BMGs, the 
kinetic energy stored during each serration of shear 
band propagation appears to be a promising indicator 
for the ductility of BMGs, and is a useful parameter 
easy to be experimentally measured. 
 
References 
1C. A. Camillo, J. Mater. Sci. 10, 1194 (1975). 
2C. T. Liu, L. Heatherly, D. S. Easton, C. 
A. Carmichael, J. H. Schneibel, C. H. Chen, J. 
L. Wright, M. H. Yoo, J. A. Horton, and A. Inoue, 
Metall. Mater. Trans. A 29, 1811 (1998). 
3Y. H. Liu, G. Wang, R. J. Wang, D. Q. Zhao, M. X. 
Pan, and W. H. Wang, Science 315, 1385 (2007). 
4J. S. C. Jang, J. Y. Chou, T. H. Hung, J. C. Huang, 
and X. H. Du, Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 011930 (2008). 
5X. H. Du, J. C. Huang, K. C. Hsieh, Y. H. Lai, H. M. 
Chen, J. S. C. Jang, and P. K. Liaw, Appl. Phys. Lett. 
91, 131901 (2007). 
 1
Travel report 
July 3 to 11, 2009 
Xiamen廈門, Beijing 北京, and Shenyang 瀋陽 
 
The trip to Mainland China this time includes (1) the collaboration visit of Dean XG Liu, 
劉興軍院長, the Dean of Materials College, Xiamen University廈門大學材料學院院長, (2) 
the attendance of the 16th International Symposium on Metastable, Amorphous and 
Nanostructured Materials, ISMANAM, and (3) the collaboration of Dr. J. Xu in Institute of 
Metal Research, IMR, 中國科學院瀋陽金屬研究所.  
 
 My post-doc and I arrive in Xiamen at 3:30 pm, and were picked by Dean Liu’s 
assistant, and then directly to Xiamen University for my talk on 4:30 to 5:30. The talk was on 
the Recent Progress on Metallic Glasses in Taiwan. It attracts more than 100 faculty and 
students to attend this seminar. After that, we have dinner banquet with eight of their senior 
professors, including two Vice Deans, Prof. Lizong Dai 戴李宗教授 and Prof. Peter Z. Feng 
馮祖德教授 . Also, Dean Liu invited the famous scholars, Prof. Ce-Wen Nan from 
TsinghuaUniv 北京清華大學材料學院副院長 南策文, Prof. Zi-Kui Liu from Penn State 
Univ, USA 美國賓州州立大學劉梓葵教授 , and Prof. Yu Liu from Nanyang Univ, 
Singapore 新加坡南洋大學劉勇教授, to our dinner banquet. Prof. Nan is now the candidate 
for Chinese academician, and we have wonderful conversation over the future development 
of the electronic ceramic materials. I have chance to invite all these professors to visit Taiwan, 
and they decided to come to attend our annual Chinese Materials conference 材料年會 in 
November of 2009, to be held in 花蓮東華大學.  
 
  
Taken in front of Xiamen University front gate and the beautiful campus 
 
 3
attending this symposium. Probably because of the direct flight from Taipei and Beijing, it is 
very convenient for Taiwanese scholars to come.  
 
  
Taken in front of the ISMANAM conference site in Beijing 
 
 The symposium hosts four plenary sessions (each with three plenary lectures), 27 oral 
presentation sessions (each with 2 invited talks and 4 regular oral talks), and two poster 
sessions (each with 120 poster presentations). Totally, there are 414 papers. Among them, 
papers from Taiwan occupy about 15% (~65 papers) of the total papers, indicating that 
Taiwan has established strong research in this area.  
 
The presentation of our group in this conference included 
(1) “Size effect of shear band propagation speed in metallic glasses”, by J. C. Huang, H. M. 
Chen, Y. H. Lai, C. J. Lee, S. X. Song, and T. G. Nieh. (Invited talk) 
(2) “Thermal and mechanical properties of the Zr-based bulk metallic glass composites with 
ductile in-situ dispersed Ta-rich particles”, by J. S. C. Jang, D. J. Pan, S. R. Jian, Y. H. Wu, 
J. C. Huang, and T. G. Nieh. (Invited talk) 
(3) “Mechanical behavior of Au-based metallic glass in micro-scale at ambient and elevated 
temperatures”, by C. J. Lee, Y. H. Lai, C. W. Tang, J. C. Huang, and J. S. C. Jang. (Poster 
presentation) 
(4) “Plasticity enhancement of MgCuGdAg based bulk metallic glass composites dispersion 
strengthened by Ti particles”, J. S. C. Jang, Y. S. Chang, T. H. Li, P. J. Hsieh, and J. C. 
Huang. (Poster presentation) 
(5) “Mg-Cu-Gd bulk metallic glasses synthesized by spray forming process”, by K. P. Lin, C. 
Y. A. Tsao, J. C. Huang, and J. S. C. Jang. (Poster presentation) 
(6) “Diffusion bonding of Mg-Cu-Gd bulk metallic glasses”, Y. H. Chen, C. Y. A. Tsao, J. C. 
Huang, and J. S. C. Jang (oral presentation). 
 
There are a number of interesting talks over the symposium. For example, the talk by 
