 2
quantum wells (1-D confinement), 
nanowires (2-D confinement), and 
quantum dots (3-D confindment). In this 
project, we devoted to the fabrication 
and analysis of semiconductor quantum 
dots.    
 
3. Research methods 
The experiments in this plan 
included three parts, as shown below, 
respectively： 
(I) Fabrication and analysis of InGaN 
quantum dots 
Two samples are used in this part, 
which were grown on c-plane sapphire 
substrates by MOCVD. Trimethyl- 
gallium, trimethyl-indium, and ammonia 
were used as the precursors for Ga, In, 
and N, respectively. The sample S-Ga 
consisted of a 30nm-thick GaN 
nucleation layer followed by a 4μm 
n-type GaN layer doped with Si, 
followed by seven periods of 
InGaN/GaN MQWs and finally a 0.2μm 
p-type GaN layer doped with Mg. The 
growth temperature for the InGaN wells 
and GaN barriers was 860 ºC and 760 ºC, 
respectively. The growth conditions of 
the other sample, S-N, are the same as 
those of sample Green-Ga, except slight 
Mg doping in the GaN buffer layer.  
The microstructure of samples was 
characterized by HRTEM using a JEOL 
2100F microscope equipped with a 
Gatan imaging filter operating at 200 kV. 
Cross-sectional TEM samples were 
prepared using mechanical polishing, 
followed by Ar+ ion milling at an 
incident angle of 3°. Continuous-wave 
(cw) PL measurements were performed 
by using a 325nm line of a 23mW 
He-Cd laser as the excitation source. For 
the TRPL measurements, a 408nm 
pulsed diode laser with a frequency of 
2.5 MHz was used to excite only the 
QWs excluding GaN barriers, and the 
luminescence decay was measured with 
a time-correlated single photon counting 
system. A closed-cycle cryostat was 
used for temperature- dependent 
measurements ranging from 20 to 300K. 
 
(II) Fabrication and analysis of InAs 
quantum dots 
The InAs QDs are grown on 
semi-insulating (100)-oriented GaAs 
substrates by MBE. The InAs nominal 
growth rate was 0.5±0.05 ML/s for the 
total coverage of 1.75 bilayers (BLs). 
The background pressure during growth 
is 3×10-7 mbar. The GaAs buffer layer is 
deposited at 580°C and the substrate 
temperature is ramping down to 510°C 
for the following growth. The plan-view 
and cross-sectional TEM samples were 
prepared by mechanical polishing 
followed by ion milling until perforation. 
The images were acquired with 
JEOL-2100F operating at 200keV. The 
chemical composition of the various 
InAs/GaAs heterostructures was further 
studied quantitatively by the TEM 
analytical techniques for EELS analysis 
and EFTEM elemental mapping 
observation. 
 
(III) Fabrication and analysis of InN 
quantum dots 
Sequential ion implantations of In+ 
and N+ ions were performed on silicon 
(100) wafers. The energy of In+ ions was 
fixed at 130 keV with dose of 5x1018 
cm-2, and the energies of N+ ions were 
30 keV and 50 keV, with dose of 1x1016 
cm-2 each. The energies were chosen to 
maximize the overlap of distributions of 
two species. The SIMS data verified that 
the depth distributions of two species 
were identical (between 50-200nm), 
which peaked at about 60nm. After the 
implantation, specimens were thermal 
annealed in NH3 atmosphere with 
different times (1hr and 10hrs) and 
different temperatures (800oC, 1000oC).  
We know the microstructure of dots 
from TEM images, including the 
surrounding defects , distribution, and 
size. Then, we judged whether the dots 
were of zincblend type or not by 
diffraction pattern. We also utilized XPS 
 4
indium composition derived from the 
HRXRD results. The peak PGQ is always 
the dominant band in the PL spectra 
from 20K to 300K. As for the S-N 
sample, these two emissions are also 
observed in the PL spectra, however, the 
InGaN matrix-related peak (PNM) is the 
main emission at low temperatures. 
Nevertheless, the dominance of the peak 
is gradually changed from the peak PNM 
to the QD-related peak (PNQ) with the 
increase of temperature. Compared to 
the peak PGQ, the emission energy of the 
peak PNQ at 20K is red-shifted to 
2.378eV with a broader FWHM of 
188meV, which can be attributed to a 
weaker screening effect in the sample 
S-N due to the lower hole concentration. 
The peak positions against temperature 
for two emissions from the S-Ga and 
S-N samples are summarized in the 
insets of Fig. 3(a) and 3(b), respectively. 
Interestingly, both InGaN matrix-related 
emissions, PGM and PNM, exhibit an 
S-shaped transition with temperature. 
This could be attributed to the potential 
inhomogeneity from composition 
fluctuations, rather than from thickness 
fluctuations by the sharp interfaces 
known from HRXRD results. For the 
QD peak of the sample S-Ga, PGQ, the 
emission energy is first red-shifted by 14 
meV when the temperature increases 
from 20 to 80 k, due to the relaxation of 
carriers into the potential minima, and 
then becomes temperature independent 
with a further increase up to 300K. The 
phenomenon of temperature insensitivity 
is an important characteristic of the QD 
structures. On the other hand, the QD 
peak of the S-N sample, PNQ, shows the 
S-shaped transition at the 20-200K range, 
followed by another blue-shift segment 
above 200K. This reflects a weaker 
carrier localization of the QD emission 
in the N-polarity sample, which may be 
due to extensive band-tail states known 
from the aforementioned broader 
FWHM of the PL spectra. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Arrhenius plots of the 
temperature dependence of the 
integrated PL intensities from these four 
peaks are shown in Fig. 4. Except for the 
peak PGQ, the integrated intensities of 
the peaks PGM, PNQ and PNM change little 
at low temperatures, but decrease more 
rapidly at the high-temperature range, 
suggesting two nonradiative 
recombination centers responsible for 
the low and high temperature ranges, 
respectively. The calculation of the 
activation energy in the thermal 
activated processes is generally given by 
I(T) = I0 / [1+Σαi exp (- Eai / kBT )], 
where the definitions of all parameters 
can be found elsewhere. Except for the 
peak PGQ, the best fits of other peaks are 
obtained only if two nonradiative 
channels are included. The extracted 
values and internal quantum efficiency 
(ηin) for all the peaks are summarized in 
Table 1. The activation energy of the 
(a) 
20K 
300K 
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
. u
.) PGM 
PGQ  PGM  
PGQ  
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
2.35
2.40
2.75
E
m
iss
io
n 
en
er
gy
 (e
V
)
T em perature (K )
(b) 
20K 
300K PNM 
PNQ  
2.2 2.4 2.6 2.8 3.0 3.2 3.4
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Emission energy (eV)
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
2.30
2.35
2.75
2.80
 
 
E
m
is
sio
n 
en
er
gy
 (e
V
)
Temperature (K)
PNM  
PNQ  
Fig. 3 Temperature-dependent PL spectra 
from 20 to 300K of the samples (a) S-Ga and 
(b) S-N, with the emission energy versus 
temperature of both emissions summarized 
in the insets. 
 6
temperature. The longer carrier lifetimes 
of the QD emission in the sample S-N 
can be attributed to the larger 
piezoelectric field that is not efficiently 
screened by photogenerated carriers. In 
addition, the spectra measured at the 
InGaN matrix emission energies of the 
S-Ga sample show a 
multiple-exponential decay. The fast 
decay behavior gradually disappears 
with a decrease of the detection energy, 
which provides evidence that the carriers 
generated in the lower-In-content 
regions (InGaN matrix) transfer into the 
higher-In-content regions (QDs), 
resulting in the intense emission and the 
higher ηin of 21.5% of the green light 
emission in the S-Ga sample. However, 
for the S-N sample, the multiple-decay 
is not obvious in the InGaN matrix 
related spectra, but is apparent in the 
QD-related spectra. This indicates no 
efficient transfer channels formed 
between these two distinct regions in the 
S-N sample, which may be interrupted 
by the interface dislocations, causing the 
dominant band of the InGaN matrix at 
20K. It should also be noted that the 
obvious carrier transfer within the QDs 
regions of the S-N sample may result 
from the extensive band-tail states with 
individual weak barriers.  
 
(II) EFTEM investigation of In/Ga 
intermixing in InAs / GaAs hetero- 
structures 
 
Figure 6(a) shows a plan-view 
dark-field TEM image in the two-beam 
(g=220) condition of InAs dots. Strained 
QDs are clearly observed, as indicated 
by the characteristic dark and bright 
contrast related to an inhomogeneous 
lattice deformation in a 
three-dimensional structure. The size of 
the QDs is approximately between 15 
and 17 nm, and the real surface density 
of the QDs is approximately 6.7×1010 
cm-2. The formation of the QDs releases 
the strain energy, since they might build 
up a local stress concentration, the 
white-black contrast in InAs QDs 
originate from the strain effects for the 
transition from two-dimensional to 
three-dimensional nucleation. Figure 6(b) 
shows a cross-sectional dark-field TEM 
image using two-beam (g=400) 
condition of a symmetric stack of InAs 
dots with 60nm GaAs spacer. The dots 
from the upper layer are not vertically 
aligned to the dots below. The strain 
fields of underlying dot layers have not 
influence the dot formation in layers 
above. The typical lateral sizes of the 
uncapped InAs QDs are between 15 and 
20 nm, which is in good agreement with 
those obtained from plan-view TEM 
images, and their height is about 8 nm. 
By contrast, the capped InAs QDs are 
shorter. The size and density of the 
uncapped dots were almost the same as 
the capped dots. On top and bottom of 
each dot the lattice distortion due to the 
strain is clearly observable. The wetting 
layers are visible as black line in the 
regions between GaAs layers. To 
determine the shape of the InAs QDs, 
HREM images at the [110] zone was 
performed as shown in Fig. 7, clearly 
showing lens shape for a uncapped InAs 
dot and a truncated pyramid shape for a 
capped dot. The aspect ratio of height to 
diameter is approximately 0.4 for the 
uncapped dot and approximately 0.3 for 
the capped dot, suggesting that dots 
undergo shape evolution during the 
growth of the capped layer. Since the 
InAs QDs are lattice mismatched to the 
GaAs layers, the strain relaxation can 
occur. However, there are no 
dislocations around the InAs QDs 
embedded in the GaAs barriers, as 
shown in Fig. 6(b). The regions of the 
InAs QDs are darker than those of the 
GaAs barriers, and the dark regions 
suggest an In-rich core. 
To further understand the 
composition variation, EFTEM 
observation was performed for the 
sample. Fig. 8 shows the EFTEM 
 8
398.6eV is attributed to nitrogen, and 
the peak at 396.5 is attributed to In-N 
bonding. From these two figures we can 
know that no other compound like 
silicon nitride is formed, and InN is 
formed in the silicon matrix.  
Fig. 10(c) is the diffraction pattern 
taken from zone B and zone C in Fig. 
9(a). After careful examination, all the 
spots come from cubic crystal system; 
no spots are of hexagonal crystal 
system-that means there is no wurtzite 
InN formed. The coincidence of silicon 
and indium nitride spots may be because 
of the similar crystal structure of silicon 
and zinc blende InN, resolution of 
instrument, the small difference of 
lattice constant (lattice mismatch ~8%), 
and the coherent or semicoherent 
interface. 
Fig. 11 is the room-temperature PL 
result of sample annealed at 8000C for 
1hr. There are two peaks which are 
located at 0.74eV and 0.69eV 
respectively. The main emission peak at 
0.74eV should be originated from the 
near-band-edge emission considering the 
theoretical band-gap value of zinc 
blende InN (0.6eV) and the size 
confinement effect. We rule out the 
dislocation-related emission as the 
origin of this peak because the 
dislocation-related emissions are almost 
located near 0.8eV  are measured at 
low temperature with wider FWHM. 
Talking of the other relatively weak 
peak, we attribute that peak as the 
phonon replica of the main peak, a 
common feature in III-V compound PL 
spectra. Phonon replica is caused by 
phonon-assisted band transition, and the 
energy difference between two peaks is 
about 50meVwhich corresponds to the 
energy of A1(TO) phonon.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
　  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Fig. 10 (a) XPS spectra of Si 2p. (b) XPS 
spectra of N 1s. (c) the diffraction pattern of 
sample annealed at 800oC for 1hr 
Fig. 11 Room-temperature PL spectra of 
sample annealed at 800oC for 1hr. 
 10
[7]“Effect of crystallinity and preferred 
orientation of Ta2N films on diffusion 
barrier properties for copper 
metallization Conference paper” 
Hung-Chin Chung and Chuan-Pu Liu, 
Surface and Coating Technology, 200, 
3122(2006). 
 
b. Conference paper 
[1]“Investigation on GaN Regrowth 
with Mask Area Ratio by Epitaxial 
Lateral Overgrowth” Ching-I Chang, 
Yen-Lin Lai, Regime Chen and 
Chuan-Pu Liu, ISPN 2005 (Sun Yat-sen 
University, Kaohsiung, 2005). 
 
[2]“Composition characterization of 
indium-rich clusters in InGaN/GaN 
multiple quantum wells by HRTEM and 
EFTEM” Chuan-Pu Liu and Yen-Lin Lai, 
IMC16 (Sapporo, Japan, 2006). 
 
[3]“Effects of film polarity in InGaN 
quantum wells comprised of quasi-dots 
on their optical properties and carrier 
transfer process” Yen-Lin Lai, Chuan-Pu 
Liu, Yung-Hsiang Lin, Ray-Ming Lin, 
Dong-Yuan Lyu, Zhao-Xiang Peng and 
Tai-Yuan Lin, MRS Taiwan 2006 
(Chung-Kung University, Tainan, 2006). 
 
[4]“Dependence of InGaN quantum dot 
characteristics on emission properties of 
InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells” 
Chuan-Pu Liu, Yen-Lin Lai, 
Yung-Hsiang Lin and Ray-Ming Lin, 
IEDMS 2006 (Chung-Kung University, 
Tainan, 2006). 
 
[5]“The investigation of both capped 
and uncapped InAs quantum dots in 
symmetric stack InAs/GaAs 
heterostructures” Hung-Chin Chung, 
Yi-Feng Lai, Chuan-Pu Liu, Wen-Chu 
Hsiao and Yen-Lin Lai, submitted to 
34th PCSI 2007. 
 
[6]“The influence of deposition time of 
quantum wells on the interface and 
optical properties of InGaN/GaN 
superlattice” Yen-Lin Lai, Chuan-Pu Liu, 
Yung-Hsiang Lin, Wen-Chu Hsiao, 
Hung-Chin Chung and Ray-Ming Lin, 
submitted to 34th PCSI 2007. 
 
[7]“Zinc blende InN quantum dots 
grown by ion implantation and 
annealing” Chuan-Pu Liu, Yi-Kai Huang, 
and Yen-Lin Lai, submitted to AMN3 
(New Zeland). 
 
[8] “Energy-filter transmission electron 
microscopy study of both capped and 
uncapped InAs quantum dots in 
InAs/GaAs heterostructures” Hung-Chin 
Chung, Yi-Feng Lai, Chuan-Pu Liu, 
Shiang-Feng Tang and Cheng-Der 
Chiang, IMC16 (Sapporo, Japan, 2006). 
 
4. Composition Characterization of Indium-rich Clusters in InGaN/GaN Multiple 
Quantum Wells by HRTEM and EFTEM, Chuan-Pu Liu, and Yen-Lin, Lai------P8_60 
5. Three-dimensional ZnO Nanowalls Characterized by High-resolution Transmission 
electron Microscopy, Ruey-Chi Wang, Chuan-Pu Liu, Jow-Lay Huang and Shu-Jen 
Chen 
-------------------------------------------------------------p8 M_61 
6. Characterization of Cobalt Oxides Nanowires Grown by Thermal Chemical Vapor 
Deposition, Zhi-Yuan Zhuang, Yi-Feng Lai, and Chuan-Pu Liu ---------p8 M_77 
 
A. The conference is very organized and impressive. One can imagine that it will be 
extremely difficult to handle a conference like this size, however, they have done a 
fantastic job. For example, they encouraged all related companies to have dinner 
parties for all participants for every night and they turns out to be great. They had 
parties in either local famous restaurants or in 5-start hotels with all night 
performance from the locals; There was a concert at one night performed by 
Sapporo orchestra, very formal one; All of the buses were scheduled to transport 
between places and on time. This is something we really need to learn since that 
will definitely affect the quality of the conference and influence people from 
coming for the next time.   
B. Microscopy is a special subject by its own. The strength of the microscopy work 
can assist and support almost all aspects of applied engineering, which makes all 
fields reaching the superiority and top, for example, the current hot areas of 
nanotechnogy and Biotechnology. Therefore, all of the major countries have made 
special emphases on this field more or less in various forms.  For example, the 
Emperor and Empress of Japan and several cabin members attended the ceremony 
before concert and the Emperor said to everybody that he is also interested in 
Microscopy as well and have published papers using Microscopy before. This really 
gives us a lesson that Taiwan seems to stress less on this field so that our 
microscopy team is weak and the related support to other fields is also very weak. 
This is a warning, however, the solution to that is not that easy.  
