行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
平面顯示器構裝技術中使用非導電膏狀膠材 
接合玻璃覆晶之熱/濕應力變形研究 
 
Hygro-thermal Stresses and Deformations of COG Packages 
with Non-conductive Paste in TFT-LCD Applications 
 
國科會計畫編號：NSC-95-2221-E-182-015 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：蔡明義 mytsai@mail.cgu.edu.tw 長庚大學機械工程研究所 
參與計畫人員：陳俊宏、丁昭文、黃溥膳 
 
 
 
摘要 
近年來，非導電膏狀膠材或非導電
薄膜狀膠材因具有低成本及適用於細凸
塊間距之優勢，在薄膜電晶體液晶顯示
器構裝應用上，已逐漸取代以異方性導
電薄膜接合之玻璃覆晶構裝體。然而，
諸如過大之翹曲量、介面脫層及凸塊電
阻增加等可靠度問題，亦會出現於應用
非導電膏狀膠材接合之玻璃覆晶構裝
體。本論文之目的是利用實驗量測及數
值分析，研究溢膠與無溢膠狀態之玻璃
覆晶構裝體(以非導電膏狀膠材接合)在
膠材固化後，置入高溫爐150°C兩個小
時，其翹曲量受溫度與溼度負載之影
響。本研究乃利用杜曼-格林干涉儀量測
玻璃覆晶構裝體因溫濕負載所造成之翹
曲量(又稱離面位移)。為了瞭解此構裝體
之翹曲變化機制，所以利用三維有限元
素模型來計算試片翹曲量，並與實驗結
果作一比對。本研究也針對溢膠與無溢
膠狀態之玻璃覆晶構裝體，進行熱循環
測試與溼度負載下之全域離面翹曲變形
的量測。其結果指出溢膠的玻璃覆晶接
合構裝體，在接合製程後試片呈現相當
明顯之凹口向上的翹曲形狀，而無溢膠
之試片則較不明顯。此外，隨著加熱試
片的溫度上升，具溢膠或無溢膠之玻璃
覆晶接合構裝體的條紋圖形，不論是在
實驗或有限元素模擬的分析結果，皆具
有一致性。在深入瞭解濕氣對玻璃覆晶
構裝體的影響之前，已先利用杜曼-格林
干涉儀及Timoshenko雙層板理論，結合
非導電膏狀膠材/矽晶片的雙層板結構
試片，量測並計算非導電膏狀膠材在
29°C/85%相對溼度置放12小時後所造成
之濕氣膨脹應變，其值εm=0.3%。再者，
將具有溢膠或無溢膠之玻璃覆晶構裝體
的應變值代入有限元素分析，與杜曼-格
林干涉實驗量得之試片翹曲量分佈進行
 2
element method, moisture-absorption 
expansion strain 
 
Introduction 
As the application of the COG (Chip on 
Glass) with ACF (Anisotropic Conductive 
Film) to the LCDs (Liquid Crystal 
Displays), the problems with the warpage 
of COG packages, interfacial delamination, 
and increasing contact resistance of bumps, 
during or after thermal and moisture 
loading, are major reliability issues 
encountered in the industry. However, 
besides those issues, the cost of ACF due 
to adding the conductive particles and its 
feasibility to finer bump pitch application 
are still two of main concerns for the ACF 
application to COG packages. To resolve 
these two issues, the use of 
non-conductive paste (NCP) or film (NCF) 
adhesives to replace the ACF in COG 
packages are currently being tried and 
may be a possible solution. However, 
when the NCP is applied to the COG 
packages, aforementioned reliability 
issues still exist. From the literature, the 
applications of ACF to flip-chip bonding 
on rigid and flexible substrates have been 
comprehensively studied with a series of 
experiments, including aging, constant 
humidity, thermal and humidity cycling, 
shearing, vibration, and shock testing [1]. 
It was found that the package failure is 
attributed to the competition between 
driving factors: thermal stresses, elastic 
stresses, moisture expansion, and 
inter-atomic force. Furthermore, the 
electrical contact between conductive 
particle in ACF and track (or bump) has 
been investigated by finite element and 
analytical models [2]. It is concluded that 
the bonding pressure in the ACF plays a 
significant role on the electrical 
interconnection between bump and track. 
The effect of moisture absorption on the 
failures of the ACF packages has been 
studied by the finite element analysis and 
the results have been correlated well with 
experimental observations [3]. The use of 
a low-stress ACF associated with 
appropriately heating the glass substrate 
during bonding, proposed in [4], can 
reduce the warpage and improve the 
reliability of the COG packages. 
Application of NCP bonding to chip on 
flex was studied and a power formulation 
for addressing the electrical contact 
resistance in terms of contact bump 
pressure has been proposed [5]. The 
nonlinear FEM models were proposed for 
studying process parameter effect on 
bump contact stresses in the COG package 
with UV-cured NCP [6]. Methods of 
measuring curing shrinkage and internal 
stress evolution of NCP using 
thermo-mechanical analyzer were also 
proposed [7, 8] However, up to date, the 
excessive warpage issue of NCP- or 
NCF-bonded COG packages which cause 
the “Mura” effect (the shadow along the 
edge of TFT-LCD) in Fig. 1 has not been 
thoroughly addressed. 
 
 4  
)1/(
)1/(
11
22
ν
ν
−
−=
E
En ;   (5) 
))(( 012 TT −−=Δ ααε .   (6) 
The T0 is a stress-free (initial) temperature, 
while the T is final one. The ti, Ei, νi, and 
αi, are thickness, elastic modulus, 
Poisson’s ratio, and coefficient of thermal 
expansion, respectively, for the bottom 
layer ( i = 1 ) and top layer ( i = 2 ) of the 
bi-material plate. The NCP/silicon 
bi-material plate was fabricated at the size 
of 6×6×0.132mm, including 32μm-thick 
NCP and 100μm-thick silicon. After its 
full cure the out-of-plane deformation of 
the bi-material plate was measured by T/G 
system. Then the specimen was put into a 
humidity chamber for absorbing the 
moisture under the condition of 29°C 
/85%RH. After moisture absorption of the 
specimen, the T/G system was applied to 
it again to document the deformation. The 
curvatures of the specimen before and 
after moisture absorption can be obtained 
from the T/G data. Since the silicon can 
not absorb moisture, the difference of both 
curvatures can be used to determine the 
moisture induced expansion strain of the 
NCP by the equation (3). 
 
Finite Element Analysis 
Finite element method (FEM) is 
employed here for simulating warpages of 
the COG packages and further 
understanding mechanics. The ANSYS 
6.1, one of the commercial codes, is used 
in this analysis. Since two planes of 
symmetry exist, only a quarter of the 
specimen is modeled in 3-D analysis, 
shown in Fig. 4. Total of about 19,500 
8-node solid elements (Solid45) are used 
in 3-D model with 5 elements through 
thickness of the NCP layer, but without 
modeling the bumps. It has been proved 
that the warpage of the COG package is 
insensitive to that with or without bumps 
[12]. The related material properties used 
in the FEM analysis are listed on Table 1, 
including elastic modulus (E), thermal 
expansion coefficient (CTE), and 
Poisson’s ratio (ν). The glass transition 
temperature (Tg) for the NCP is at 100°C. 
The material properties mentioned above 
are assumed linearelastic and isotropic, 
and the Tg effect on the NCP is neglected 
in the present FEM model. An isothermal 
load of ΔT= -57°C is applied for 
simulating the temperature load from 
84°C cooling down to 27°C. Regarding 
moisture load, the swelling (expansion) 
strains of the NCP is assumed as 0.3% 
which was determined by experiments, 
and the rest of materials are zero. There 
are two cases taken into account in 
hygro-thermal analysis: one without fillet 
and the other with partial fillet. 
 
Results and Discussion 
1. Thermal Deformation of Specimens 
with and without fillets 
Twyman-Green fringe patterns of 
NCP-boned COG packages with partial 
fillet (P2) and without fillet (P1) under 
thermal cycling from the room 
temperature to 84°C are shown in Figs. 5 
 6  
the out-of plane deformation of a 
bi-material plate through T/G experiment 
and extracting the strain data with aid of 
the biomaterial theory is taken in this 
study. The curvature variations of 
NCP/silicon bi-material plates under wet 
condition (29°C/85%RH for 12 hrs) and 
dry condition (after bake-out) from 
Twyman-Green experiment are shown in 
Fig. 9. It is noted that the NCP was cured 
at 150°C for 2hrs and the bake-out 
condition is also at 150°C for 2 hrs. And 
the curvatures of the bi-material plate 
were found almost constant at room 
temperature with low humidity (about 
10%RH) for 24hrs. The results indicate 
that average curvature of the specimens 
after curing is about 1.7×10-3 1/mm, but 
the value drops 65% to 0.61×10-3 1/mm 
after 12-hour exposure at the wet 
condition (29°C /85%RH). As a result, the 
curvature change of 1.09×10-3 1/mm is 
ascribed only to NCP moisture absorption. 
The changed value was plugged into 
equation(3), then the moisture-induced 
expansion strain εm of the NCP was 
determined to be 0.3%, which represents 
for the moisture-saturated NCP in the 
condition of 29°C/85%RH for 12hrs. 
3. Comparisons of Experimental and 
FEM Results 
In order to understand the mechanics 
and further predict the deformation of the 
NCP-bonded COG package, a FEM 
analysis has been performed with material 
properties in Table 1. The fringe result for 
the isothermal loading case ( ΔT = 
27°C-84°C = -57°C) is shown in Fig. 10 
and compared with the experimental result 
by assuming the package is almost flat at 
84°C. It is shown that the fringe patterns 
from both experiment and FEM for the 
COG with fillet under the thermal load are 
consistent well. The detailed warpage 
distributions along the longitudinal (line 
oa) and transverse (line ob) axes of the 
COG packages under ΔT = -57°C, 
obtained from FEM and Twyman-Green 
experiment, are shown in Fig. 11 (a) at the 
dry condition as well as wet condition 
(after 85%RH for 12hrs). The results 
indicate that the warpage deformation is 
much apparently concave-up for the COG 
packages with fillet at the dry condition 
(right after manufacturing), and the value 
and distribution of the warpage from the 
experiment and FEM are consistent very 
well. It is also shown that the warpage 
deformation becomes less severe after 
moisture absorption, and the results from 
the experiment and FEM are reasonably in 
agreement. To consider the case without 
fillet, the warpage distributions, shown in 
Fig.11 (b), are also consistent for both 
results from the experiment and FEM, and 
indicate that the deformed shape is slightly 
convex-up in comparison with the 
specimen with fillet and insensitive to the 
moisture absorption. 
4. Hygro-Thermal Deformation of 
Specimens 
The fillet and hygro-thermal effects on 
 8  
the obtained warpage distributions of 
COG packages with and without fillet are 
well compared with those from 
Twyman-Green experiment. It is also 
shown that moisture-absorption expansion 
strain dramatically reduces the warpage of 
the COG package with fillet, but not for 
that without fillet. 
 
References 
1. Lai, Z. and Liu, J. “Anisotropically 
Conductive Adhesive Flip-chip Bonding 
on Rigid and Flexible Printed Circuit 
Substrates,” IEEE Trans. Comp. Packag. 
and Manufact. Technol.-Part B, vol. 19, 
no. 3, (Aug. 1996), pp.644-660. 
2. Yim, M. J. and Paik, K. W. “Design and 
Understanding of Anisotropic Conductive 
Films (ACF’s) for LCD Packaging,” IEEE 
Trans. Comp. Packag. and Manufact. 
Technol.-Part A, vol. 21, no. 2, (June. 
1998), pp.226-234. 
3. Mercado, L. L., White, J., Sarihan, V., 
and Lee, T. Y., “Failure Mechanism Study 
of Anisotropic Conductive Film (ACF) 
Packages,” IEEE Trans. Comp. Packag. 
Technol., vol. 26, no. 3, (Sept. 2003), pp. 
509-516. 
4. Watanabe, I., Fujinawa, T., Arifuku, M., 
Fujii, M., and Gotoh, Y., “Recent 
Advances of Interconnection 
Technologies Using Anisotropic 
Conductive Films in Flat Panel Display 
Applications,” the 9th Int’l Symposium on 
Advanced Packaging Materials, (2004). 
5. Zhang, X., Wong, E. H., Rajoo, R. and 
Iyer, M. K., “Assembly Process Modeling 
for Flip Chip on Flex Interconnections 
with Non-Conductive Adhesive,” 2003 
Electronics Packaging Technology 
Conference, (2003), pp.803-808. 
6. Cheng, H. C., Ho, C. L., Chiang, K. N. 
and Chang S. M., “Process-Dependent 
Contact Characteristics of NCA 
Assemblies,” IEEE Transactions on 
Components and Packaging Technologies, 
Vol. 27, No. 2, (2004), pp.398- 410. 
7. Yu, H., Mhaisalkar, S. G., and Wong, E. 
H., “Cure Shrinkage Measurement of 
Nonconductive Adhesives by Means of a 
Thermomechanical Analyzer,” J. of 
Electronic Materials, Vol. 34, No. 8, 
(2005), pp.1177-1182. 
8. Jang, K. W., Kim, H. J., Kwon, W. S., 
and Paik, K. W., “Internal Stresses 
Evolution of Non-Conductive Pastes 
(NCPs) and Underfill Materials for Flip 
Chip Applications,” 2005 Electronic 
Components and Technology Conference, 
(2005), pp.1486-1490. 
9. Post, D., Han, B. and Ifju, P., High 
Sensitivity Moiré, published by 
Springer-Verlag, (NY, 1993). 
10. Tsai, M. Y. Hsu, C. H. and Wang, C. 
T., “Investigation of Thermo-Mechanical 
Behaviors of Flip Chip BGA Packages 
During Manufacturing Process and 
Thermal Cycling,” IEEE Transactions on 
Components and Packaging Technologies 
Vol. 27, No. 3, (2004), pp.568-576. 
11. Timoshenko, S., “Analysis of Bi-metal 
Thermostats,” J. Opt. Soc Am, Vol. 11, 
(1925), pp. 233-255. 
 10 
  
Fig. 4 A quarter model and meshes of 
NCP-boned COG package used in 3-D 
finite element analysis 
 
Fig. 5 Fringe patterns of NCP-boned COG 
package with partial fillet (P2) under 
thermal cycling 
 
Fig. 6 Fringe patterns of NCP-boned COG 
package without fillet (P1) under thermal 
cycling 
 
Fig. 7 Maximum warpages (at the points a 
and b) of NCP-boned COG packages with 
and without fillet (P2 and P1) under 
thermal cycling, obtained from T/G 
experiment 
 12 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 11 (a) Comparisons of warpage 
distributions along the longitudinal and 
transverse axes of COG package with 
fillet at the dry and wet conditions (after 
85%RH for 12hrs), under ΔT= -57°C, 
obtained from EFM and Twyman-Green 
experiment, (b) of COG packages with 
and without fillet. 
 
Fig.12 Fringe pattern of NCP-boned COG 
package without fillet (at the up-left), one 
after adding full fillet (specimen P3)and 
cured (at the up-right), one after 
29°C/55%RH for 6hrs (at the down-right), 
and one after 150°C bake-out for 1.5hrs 
(at the down-left) 
 
Fig. 13 Warpage distributions of 
NCP-boned COG package with full fillet 
(specimen P3) after cured, after 29°C 
/55%RH for 6hrs, and after 150°C 
bake-out for 1.5hrs 
 
 
 14 
優異的表現，且該科技產業亦借著科技園區的新建立，如火如荼地展
開，故此次會議對香港相對重要。此次會議期間共有近 140 篇論文發
表，約有兩百位專業人士參加，是該會議歷年來最具規模。參加人員
分別來自美國、德國、英國、台灣、南韓、日本、新加坡、印度、中
國大陸、馬來西亞、與香港當地之學術界與產業界。每篇論文發表及
討論的時間共為 20 分鐘，會議的主題有電子元件/構裝材料製程與定
性、電性設計模擬與分析、熱傳/結構材料量測與分析、構裝元件/系
統之可靠度、構裝基板技術、光電構裝元件/系統、射頻元件等等。 
    
筆者此行由國科會補助機票費、註冊費及生活費。在此次研討會
中，除了帶領一位博士班研究生以 20 分鐘口頭報告方式發表一篇研
究論文外，筆者亦以口頭報告方式發表一篇研究論文，並擔任section 
chair，以協助主持會議。發表研究論文主要內容為：利用即時陰影
疊紋系統，實際量測不同溫度下 PBGA 構裝體之翹曲變形，並考慮
模封材料內殘餘應力之影響，結合有限元素法與理論分析來驗證，以
瞭解 PBGA 構裝體之翹曲變形之行為。另一篇為博士班研究生發表，
經由口頭報告後，並與與會學者、專家有熱烈討論與交流，結果頗受
肯定，也獲得一位香港城市大學電機系教授與半導體大廠 Infineon 新
加坡構裝部的高階主管邀請合作的機會，使筆者對此次發表之研究內
容與結果更具信心，且獲益良多。會中，亦被邀請參加該研討會之委
員會議，討論該研討會未來之方向與籌備事宜，會中各國委員代表一
致通過明年將由南韓承辦，又經台灣代表人員(包括筆者)極力爭取，
會中亦決定後年將由台灣主辦。 
 
二、 與會心得 
    筆者只針對有興趣領域與論文的議題提出個人的看法，並簡單敘
