restricted. Due to the efficiency of visualization 
and capability of hardware are gradually growing up, 
the development framework of applications is moving 
form ＇Client-Server＇ to ＇Host-based＇, 
called ＇Cloud Computing＇ technology. In this 
research, we utilize the concept of Software as a 
Service (SaaS) of Cloud Computing to develop the 
visual system for BIM visualization and manipulation. 
This system can not only visualize 3D BIM models, but 
also can manipulate 3D BIM models via web without 
considering time and distance limitation. This system 
can facilitate to communicate and distribute 
information between related participants, such like 
construction site, owner, construction management 
company and so on, for managing project effectively 
and efficiently. 
英文關鍵詞： BIM, Cloud Computing, Multi-touch, Information 
Visualization, Information Manipulation 
 
二、研究目的： 
在本研究中提出應用雲端運算技術於BIM模型視覺化展現與操控之架構，其
主要之研究目的歸類為為以下四項：(1)整合工程團隊間彼此之工程資料及管理
相關資訊，開創新型態之資訊交流雲端平台，提昇工程管理效益；(2)解決現行
BIM資訊僅可於個人電腦上操作之問題，利用雲端運算服務之概念，使BIM模型
可於線上即時做視覺化之展現及操控；(3)注重使用者介面之設計，使系統平台
能更直覺及具便利性，增加使用效能；(4)透過簡明的雲端系統平台，使現場人
員亦有了解BIM的機會，促使BIM技術於實務上之導入。 
三、文獻探討 
1. 雲端運算技術  
「雲端」一詞之產生，為於資訊工程師在繪製網路拓樸示意圖時，常以雲型
來代表「網路」，故「雲端運算」亦即「網路運算」，用戶端可以透過網路溝通
多台電腦的運算工作或是透過網路連線取得伺服器提供的服務。用戶端不再需要
了解「雲端」中基礎設施的細節，且不必具備相對應之專業知識，亦無需直接進
行控制。根據美國國家標準技術局NIST於2011年的定義[1]，雲端運算是一種技
術服務之概念，此服務按用戶端的需求，透過網路去連結共享的資源，如網路、
伺服器、儲存空間及應用程式等服務，可用最少的管理來達到迅速配置與發佈之
效益，在前述定義中，雲端運算分為三個服務模式，如圖2所示。 
  
圖2、雲端運算之服務概念圖 
(1) 軟體即服務(Software as a Service, SaaS)：它是一種透過網際網路來提
供軟體服務的模式，將應用軟體統一部署在雲端伺服器上，用戶端可以透過
網際網路獲得伺服器所提供的服務，用戶端不用再購買軟體及提昇硬體設備，
且無需對軟體進行更新及維護，全權由服務提供者負責。如以企業服務業者
應用為例，如：Google、Microsoft Office Live及Facebook等平台，均屬
 四、研究方法 
現行在BIM技術之運用上面，仍較偏重於單機繪圖工作站應用程式的開發及
運用，故BIM技術所要表達之模型及資訊，如果在其他未有相同應用程式的電腦
平台上，則無法讓使用者以視覺化之方式展現及操作BIM模型，故在應用上還是
有非常多的限制在，導致技術導入的困難。為了改善及解決這項問題，本研究則
提出應用雲端運算(SaaS)服務之概念，建置一線上即時之BIM模型視覺化雛型雲
端平台，命名為「Cloud-BIM」系統平台，在此系統平台中，強調如何將BIM模
型建置於雲端，以視覺化之方式展現及操控，並以工程管理相關資訊結合，藉以
協助各工程管理單位，在有網路存在的環境中，隨時隨地的以視覺化方式，瀏覽
相關資訊，迅速明確的從「雲端」，來管理及了解工程專案目前之執行情形。  
在「Cloud-BIM」系統平台介面之設計中，納入行動商務操作介面設計之概
念，研究中所開發之使用者介面，儘以簡明及便利為設計訴求，將工程管理實務
上，當下所需了解的資訊，結合BIM資訊視覺化之既念，展現於工程團隊，使工
程管理方式能更為流暢及科技。在整個平台的設計評估中，所包含的工作包括：
系統架構設計、BIM模型整合、工程專案資訊及使用者介面設計。 
 
1. Cloud-BIM系統架構  
本研究所開發之「Cloud-BIM」系統平台，主為架構於HTTP通訊協定的網
頁服務，著重於BIM模型的視覺化展現及操控上，系統架構從雲端伺服器到用戶
端，在研究中規劃為3層，如圖4所示。  
(1) 第1層-Client-Side Presentation Layer-用戶端展示層：在此層中，定義
系統平台直接顯示於使用者之視覺化展現及操控畫面，使用者及工程團隊人
員可透過各種網頁瀏覽器(如：Internet Explorer、Firefox及Opera等)，
用以檢視及操作本Cloud-BIM平台，藉由畫面互動式的操控，來達到及提供
所需要的資訊。  
(2) 第2層-Enterprise Application Service Layer-應用服務層：此層為使用
者介面設計及開發部分，其主要的任務為串連使用者及伺服器端之服務及資
訊，本研究運用RIA技術中之Silverlight應用服務，藉由Microsoft Visual 
Studio 2010及Expression Blend工具來進行系統平台的開發及使用者介面
的設計。  
(3) 第3層- The Integrated Data Layer-綜合資料層：此層即為雲端運算-Saas
服務的底層伺服器，本研究之系統平台則由此層負責資料儲存及運算處理，
在工程相關資訊記載的部分，利用Microsoft SQL Server資料庫欄位來存取，
如：工程進度、成本及目前執行狀況等。在BIM模型之展現及操控上，本研
究運用了RealityServer網路3D應用程式來執行，此應用程式是由mental 
images公司所推出的3D設計線上網路服務平台，可利用於3D設計合作與協同
表報顯示之資訊，以視覺化技術及以上述設計原則為準則，將此工程資訊與BIM
模型資做整合，如圖6 所示，讓工程團隊間可以更科技的方式做資訊的交流，使
用者介面設計如以下說明：  
(1) 1D 視覺化技術：在1D 視覺化的部分， 主要是以文字、數字及表格來說明
所要傳達的訊息，本研究設計將一般較簡單的資訊如：工程名稱、進度及執
行內容以此視覺化方式於介面中顯示，如表1 所示。  
(2) 2D視覺化技術：在2D視覺化部分，主要則以圖形及文字來說明傳達的資訊，研
究中設計展現之資訊為工程施工現況照片、工程圖說及警示燈號等資訊，警示
燈號的設計，可助於工程團隊監管人員，迅速依燈號的了解工程情況，針對有
問題之案件做管制如表1所述。  
(3) 3D視覺化技術：在3D視覺化部分，即為本研究之重點，如表1所示，運用SaaS
之服務概念，將工程模型上載至此「Cloud-BIM」系統平台中，用戶端本身不需
具備BIM應用工具的繪圖及操作技術，亦不用擔心電腦配備運算能力的不足，而
無法進行3D模型之展現及操控，在此系統平台運行過程中，3D模型之展現及操
控，其運算處理皆由伺服器之繪圖處理器(GPU)負責，故在應用上即不受限於用
戶端軟體及硬體的影響，使用者直接透過系統平台進行視角旋轉、放大縮小、
平移、點選之操控，透過此技術的導入，使BIM模型於實際工程中可展現給現場
人員，亦可由本身進行模型的操控，從BIM模型的搭配，有助於增進工程人員了
解工程專案的時間。  
表1、視覺化技術與介面功能說明 
 
未來研究中可再結合現行觸控螢幕技術，發展WEB-based 互動式使用者介面及
3D 多點觸控手勢，提供使用者豐富多元、直覺便利的操作方式，將改變使用者
的使用經驗，而不僅侷限於滑鼠、鍵盤、搖桿等輸入裝置。期本研究可做為後續
BIM研究致力於雲端運算領域之基礎參考，著實為營建工程產業帶來管理之貢
獻。 
六、參考文獻 
[ 1 ] Mell, P. and Grance, T., 2009, “The NIST Definition of Cloud 
Computing,” National Institute of Standards and Technology 53, no. 
6: 50.  
[ 2 ] Howell, I. and Batcheler, B., 2005, “Building Information Modeling 
Two Years Later - Huge Potential, Some Success and Several 
Limitations,” The LaiserinLetter, May.  
[ 3 ] 李萬利、陳昭惠、蘇瑞育、盧祥偉，2010，以裝俢工程塑造CECI大樓的BIM
新內涵，中華技術-第88期，第14-23頁。 
 2 
 
茶會餐點剪影 
 
研究室與會茶會剪影 
 
(二)第 2天：Opening Ceremony (June 27, 09:15~17:45) 
本日議程即為 ISARC國際研討會的開幕式，主辦單位舉行了開幕的相關儀式，並於開幕議程
中，邀集了該領域的專家及學者進行 keynote議程的學術講演，分別為 C.M.Dye、C.N.Teulings，
C.Wehrmann及 M.Iglesia Gomez經由這些專家及學者的開場講演，立即感受到國際研討會與區域
性研討會的不同，內容更具有其深度、廣度及國際性。開幕議程結束後，經過了片刻的休息，即
開始課議題的分組發表，其中我們擇了幾個與本研究室較相關議題發表來聽講，聽了一篇「基於
參數化建模的方法有效新奧法隧道的工程量估算」，內容大約為雖然 3D的方法已被廣泛應用到建
築項目，它有很少被用於大型建設項目如隧道，大眾捷運系統、大壩、公路等領域，隧道新奧法
（新奧法）特點項目包括長直線造型簡單，循環重複操作，而且數目比較小，可以由 BIM 
applications兼顧參數化建模。目的是提出一種有效的方法，數量較大的新奧法隧道，採用參數
化建模，獲得有效的解決方案的功能。從試驗項目的結果與討論結果得知，詳細程度和參數的關
係，可以極大地提高工作效率的數量。在整個講演的議程中，體驗了不同國家在同一領域研究的
方針及重點，在與會的過程中，實增加不少研究的靈感，俾利於後續在於研究上突破及創新。 
 
研討會開幕講演剪影 
 
研討會開幕 keynote學術講演剪影 
 4 
 
ISARC研討會晚宴剪影 
 
ISARC研討會晚宴剪影 
 
(四)第 4天：General Meeting (June 29, 09:00~13:30) 
本日仍為研討會各發表的議程，由 T.Arai、E.M.Zelinski及 Q.Ha三位專家學者進行 keynote
的講演，待 keynote結束，各分室研討的議程亦如期展開，其中我們擇了幾個與本研究室較相關
議題發表來聽講，題目為「尋找用戶需要在建築環境中積極實現老齡化設計」其目的為了提供經
濟的室內定位偵探技術，室內空間使用了照片圖像的識別標籤與現有建築資訊模型（BIM）的空間
資訊，使用者可以通過相機確定自己的位置，是基於移動設備上的真實圖像。BIM基於視覺的室
內定位原型開發的一款 Android平台的移動設備，如智能手機和平板電腦上運行的應用程序。在
目前的階段，技術的可行性進行了連續測試。根據基本的測試結果，該原型可以識別室內裝飾空
間的位置，但是，一旦室內空間缺乏顯著的特徵，如空格與空白，單調的牆壁會產生失敗的識別
功能。為了克服這個缺陷，使用的 QR代碼，商標為一種類型的二維碼，作為一個替代這個原型的
照片。此外，由於現有的建築信息模型的位置數據被從數據的一致性可以確保。在未來，這個原
型的經濟可行性進行分析，以評估成本效益比。經由這三天的發表議程，確實充實了不少關於相
關領域的研究經驗及資訊。 
 
研討會 keynote學術講演剪影 
 
研討會 keynote學術講演剪影 
Dynamic Simulation and Visualization for Site Layout 
Planning 
 
Kai-Yun He 
1
 and I-Chen Wu 
1
* 
 
1 Department of Civil Engineering, National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
* Corresponding author (kwu@kuas.edu.tw) 
 
Purpose Space is regarded as a limited resource on construction sites. Proper planning for site layouts so that 
construction activities can be executed safely and efficiently is a time-consuming manual process. Site layout planning 
relies primarily on the knowledge and expertise of the planner, and is seldom subject to optimization efforts. However, it 
is often the case that, with slight modifications being made to the original site layout plan, limited space resources can be 
allocated more efficiently, and cost-reduction or increased work efficiency can be enabled. Although construction site 
layout planning is an important pre-activity, systematic analysis to determine optimal space allocation is difficult because 
of the complexity of the situation, arising from the large number of engineering resources to be factored-in, and 
interrelated planning constraints. Space availability on any construction site needs to be considered in relation to 
scheduling, productivity loss due to path interference, and space constraints. Method For this reason, this research 
developed a 4D site layout planning system based on the Monte Carlo method to solve space issues in construction sites, 
and to assist the planner to obtain the best possible site layout plan. The system was implemented in the MicroStation 
Visual Basic for Applications (MVBA) environment. Results & Discussion Through simulations, the system calculates 
the transportation and work execution distances and times, for each piece of equipment and worker. It then analyses the 
minimum distance and minimum time for different site layouts with the same resources. Finally, the planner selects the 
best site layout plan according to the results of Monte Carlo analysis, so that the available space can be used more 
efficiently during the construction process. 
 
Keywords: Simulation, Visualization, Layout Planning, Optimization, Monte Carlo Method 
 
INTRODUCTION 
In recent times, construction projects have become 
more complex and time driven, especially with the 
rapid rise in the number of active project participants 
involved in each project. The construction workspace 
layout plan not only affects the construction process 
and its efficiency, productivity, rate of utility of equip-
ment resources, mobility of materials and labor, it is 
also a major factor that determines construction 
costs. Therefore, achieving optimal site layouts with-
in the spatial limitations of each construction site has 
become an important step before the engineering 
planning stage. Kaming et al. (1998) indicated that 
space conflicts have been identified as one of the 
major causes of productivity loss in construction
1
. 
Sanders et al. (1989) reported efficiency losses of up 
to 65% due to congested workspaces and losses up 
to 58% due to restricted access
2
. Thus it is widely 
accepted that the site workspace layout exerts a 
strong influence on construction efficiency. Some 
researchers have proposed different optimal solu-
tions to solve these workspace and layout planning 
problems. Although mathematical optimization pro-
cedures have been developed to produce optimal 
solutions, they have only been applicable to small-
sized problems. Artificial intelligence techniques 
have already been applied to solve real-life problems. 
On the other hand, heuristic methods have been 
used to produce better but not optimal solutions for 
large problems. An optimization model has been 
developed to solve the site layout planning problem, 
while simultaneously considering safety and envi-
ronmental issues, and actual distances between 
facilities
3
. 
Nowadays, there are many researchers who utilize 
simulation systems to determine optimal workspace 
layout plans. In particular, 4D technology, which 
shows how 3D models will change as the construc-
tion progresses over time, has emerged rapidly. This 
is mainly due to the increasing recognition from the 
construction industry of the benefits of using the 4D 
applications, such as increased productivity, im-
proved project coordination, and the optimization of 
on-site resource allocation. Thus, 4D technology can 
have a positive impact on both pre-construction and 
construction phases, because it assists planners in 
producing improved planned projects by allowing 
them to see how their plan will evolve
4
. Chau et al. 
(2005) developed a 4D site management model that 
incorporates the 4D concept into fields of construc-
tion resource management and dynamic site plan-
ning
5
. Akinci et al. (2002) also executed similar re-
search which reduced non-value-adding activities 
resulting from time-space conflicts. A time-space 
conflict analysis based on a 4D production model 
was then proposed
6
. Mallasi’s (2004) research de-
veloped an innovative computer-based tool dubbed 
PECASO
7
. This system has potential for assisting 
METHODOLOGY 
Space is a resource that, if not managed carefully, 
may lead to critical problems arising during construc-
tion. This research developed a 4D Site Layout 
Planning System to assist planners in making effi-
cient use of space resources. Fig. 2 illustrates the 
overall workflow, which can be divided into four main 
steps as shown in following sections. 
 
Site Layout Plan Creation 
Construction engineers have to properly allocate 
uses and activities to the various construction spac-
es, such as Building Areas, Store Areas, Parking 
Areas, Office Areas and Paths, to minimize the costs 
of labor and transportation of equipment. Users can 
plan and create various 3D site layout plans in the 
4D Site Layout Planning System. 
 
Constraint-based Simulation 
In this research, the constraint-based simulation 
approach was adopted to overcome the limitations of 
fixed activity graphs and resources availability. 
Moreover, simulation was executed for iteratively 
evaluating a deterministic model using sets of ran-
dom numbers as inputs, such as exit and transporta-
tion path. This method is often used when a model is 
complex, nonlinear, or involves more than just a 
couple of uncertain parameters. 
 
Monte Carlo Analysis 
The procedures of constraint-based simulation pre-
sume that the various steps involved in forming a 
network plan, and estimating the characteristics of 
the probability distributions for the various site layout 
plans have been completed. Formulas associated 
with the generation of normally distributed transpor-
tation hours and distances were used. The concept 
of movement paths for equipment and workers is 
shown in Fig. 3, and the related formulas are defined 
in Eq. (1), Eq. (2) and Eq. (3). 
 
Transportation Distance 
The system can calculate the total transportation 
distance via Eq. (1) and Eq. (2). The distance di,i+1 
between Pi and Pi+1 points is given by the formula 
Eq.(1) : Assume Z=0, in which (Xi , Yi ) is coordinates 
of Pi and  (Xi+1 , Yi+1) is  coordinates of P i+1. 
      (1) 
 
The system will then perform a summation to calcu-
late total transportation distance (D) as shown in Eq. 
(2), in which N is the number of points. 
                (2) 
 
Transportation Time 
When the system obtains the total transportation 
distance (D) of equipment and labor, it can then 
automatically calculate the transportation time (T) 
according to their average velocity (V) as shown in 
Eq. (3). 
                  (3) 
 
Result Analysis 
After simulation and evaluation, a near optimal site 
layout plan will be generated for the impending con-
struction project. 
 
4D Visualization 
After generating the near optimal solution, the result-
ing detailed site layout plan can be easily combined 
with the 3D model and resources of the project to 
generate a 4D visualization of the construction pro-
cess. 
 
 
P1 P2
Pi Pi+1
di,i+1
Pi = The Location of ith Point
 
 
 
Fig.3. The concept of moving paths of equipment and 
labor 
Site Layout Plan 
Creation
Project
Requirements
Constraint-based 
Simulation
Resources
Monte-Carlo 
Analysis
4D Visualization
N Times
Monte-Carlo Method
Exit
Schedule
Path Deterministic Variable
Stochastic Variable
Near Optimal Solution
 
Fig.2. Workflow of the proposed methodology 
Functionalities 
The functionalities of this system can be divided into 
four parts as explained in the following section. 
 Fig. 5 illustrates the main graphical user inter-
face (GUI) of the 4D site layout planning sys-
tem. Before starting the simulation, the user 
needs to define the resources available for the 
project. The user can easily manage the activi-
ty tree and its resources by creating and ad-
justing the relationships among the various ac-
tivities and resources through the GUI, as 
shown in Fig. 5(a). 
 The planner can create various site layout 
plans in the 3D visual environment for simula-
tion and analysis. The 3D objects in the site 
model are represented in different colors, de-
pending on their purpose and type. Fig. 5(b) 
shows the color scheme implemented in this 
work. 
 The constraint-based simulation is then re-
peatedly run in order to find an efficient site 
layout. The resultant detailed transportation 
process can be easily combined with the 3D 
model of the project to generate 4D visualiza-
tion as shown in Fig. 6. 
 Fig. 7 shows the results of the Monte Carlo 
analysis conducted in this research. In this ex-
ample, the shortest transportation time and dis-
tance is given by Plan A, as shown in Table 2 
and Table 3. The application of Monte Carlo 
analysis does not guarantee the finding of an 
optimum solution. However, this approach en-
ables one to analyze and visualize the various 
candidates of site layout plan, and clearly iden-
tify good solutions, albeit manually. Based on 
transportation times and distances for labor 
and equipment, one may say that Plan A is 
more efficient than Plan B. 
 
 
 
 
 Free space 
 Road 
 Labor 
 Equipment 
 Building 
 Store 
 Parking 
 Office 
(a) The GUI for simulation and analysis  (b) The GUI for site layout planning and visualization 
 Fig.5. The GUI of 4D Site Layout Planning System 
 
2011/06/01 AM 9:00 
 
2011/06/01  AM 9:03 
 
2011/06/01  AM 11:30 
Fig.6. 4D visualization 
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100
102
14.5 15 15.5 16 16.5 17 17.5
T
o
ta
l 
D
is
ta
n
c
e
 (
k
m
)
T otal T ime (hr)
Plan A
Plan B
 
Fig.7. Results of constraint-based simulation 
Table 2 Monte Carlo analysis results of Plan A 
Plan A Min Mean Max 
Time(hr) 14.96 15.27 15.62 
Distance(km) 85.69 87.39 89.29 
 
Table 3 Monte Carlo analysis results of Plan B 
Plan B Min Mean Max 
Time(hr)  16.84 17.02 17.30 
Distance(km) 98.13 99.15 100.57 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/11/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用雲端運算技術於建築資訊模型展示與操控之研究
計畫主持人: 吳翌禎
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-151-055- 學門領域: 營建管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
