Investigation on Time-Domain Common-Mode Noise for Differential 
Serpentine Delay Microstrup Line in High-Speed Digital Circuits 
 
Kuo-Yin Hung, Yi-Chin Tsai, Che-Ming Hsu, Jia-Hung Shiu, and Guang-Hwa Shiue＊ 
Department of Electronic Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Taoyuan, Taiwan, R. O. C. 
Advanced Packaging and EMC Lab (APEMC Lab) 
E-mail: ghs@cycu.edu.tw＊ 
 
Abstract—This  study invest igates  the  transient 
transmission common-mode noise in a differential 
serpentine delay line under the weak coupling condition. 
The common-mode noise is investigated with reference to 
the time-domain waveform using the circuit solver 
HSPICE. The effects on crosstalk noise and section 
number of the differential serpentine delay line are 
investigated. How the important property of the symmetry 
for a differential serpentine delay line is also presented. A 
graphical method based on wave tracing is presented to 
illustrate the cancellation mechanism of near-end 
common-mode noise for the symmetrical differential 
serpentine delay line.  A comparison of simulated results of 
transient common-mode noise by using between HSPICE 
and full-wave solver, CST, validates the equivalent circuit  
model and analytical approach. 
 
Keywords- Differential serpentine delay line; Common-mode 
noise; Crosstalk noise. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
As clock frequencies and data transmission rates in 
semiconductor systems steadily increase into the GHz range, 
timing control of the high-speed clock and digital data signal 
traces on printed circuit board (PCB) and packages become 
critical to the design of high-speed digital circuits. While 
many approaches for minimizing clock or digital data signal 
skew have been presented, delay lines are generally adopted in 
the critical nets of a PCB, as in the serpentine routing scheme,  
which is shown in Fig. 1.  
    Differential transmission lines is gradually becoming more 
common than single-ended signaling for routing in modern 
high-speed digital circuits, such as printed circuit boards 
(PCBs) and packages, because of they suffer less interference 
than do single transmission line [1]. Notable applications 
include the Serial Advanced Technology Attachment III 
(SATA III/6Gbps), High-Definition Multimedia Interface 
(HDMI/5Gbps), PCI Express interconnect (PCI-E/8Gbps), and 
USB 3.0 (5Gbps) devices. Since such high-speed digital 
systems comprise multiple differential interconnects, timing 
synchronization is a serious design issue. Hence, the 
serpentine delay line has recently been employed to pass 
differential signals, serving as a differential serpentine delay 
Differential serpentine delay line
 
Fig. 1. A practical routing example of the differential serpentine delay lines 
on a practical industrial PCB. 
 
line. Intuitively, the total time delay should be proportional to 
the total length of the differential serpentine delay line. 
However, the crosstalk noise that is induced by close 
differential line pairs sections may drastically worsen the total 
time delay and even result in the false switching of logic gates. 
Therefore, the crosstalk mechanism in differential serpentine  
delay line has been investigated [2]-[3].  
Differential signals transmission ideally maintains good 
signal integrity and exhibits low electromagnetic emission or 
electromagnetic interference (EMI). However, in practical 
circuits, the differential signal pairs may accompany unwanted 
common-mode noise when the differential signals are skewed 
in time (as when differential traces exhibit a length mismatch), 
coupled crosstalk noise, and other effects. Owing to the 
differential serpentine scheme, the differential serpentine 
delay microstrip line is always associated with unwanted 
common-mode noise. In high-speed data links, cables are 
always required to transmit differential signals between 
electronic devices. The common-mode noise may couple to 
the I/O cables and form an excitation source of the antenna [4]. 
Common-mode noise on a differential serpentine delay line 
has not been investigated. This paper investigates the transient 
transmission common-mode noise in a differential serpentine 
delay microstrip line under the weakly coupled condition. The 
time-domain transient waveforms of common-mode voltage  
are simulated by HSPICE.  
II. CIRCUIT MODELING 
A typical differential serpentine delay line is formed by 
coupled microstrip lines with three parallel differential trace 
pairs, as shown in Fig. 2. Fig. 2 presents the top and cross-
sectional views of the differential serpentine delay line, 
This work was jointly supported in part by the National Science Council, 
Republic of China, under Grant NSC 98/99-2221-E-033-014 and in part by 
the College of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, under Grant 
CYCU-EECS-9903. (APEMC Lab: http://apemc.el.cycu.edu.tw/) 
    The general guideline for designing differential serpentine 
delay lines is to ensure that the trace lengths of the two 
differential traces are equal. Although the lengths of the two 
differential traces are equivalent to each other, according to 
the scheme for routing dual back-to-back vertical-turn coupled 
traces, as shown in Fig. 2(a), common-mode noise still is 
generated at the receiving end. The intense common-mode 
noises, as presented in Fig. 4, in the interior of the differential  
serpentine delay line is absent at the receiving end.   
IV. CROSSTALK NOISE AND COMMON-MODE 
CANCELLATION MECHANISM 
The differential serpentine delay line is formed from 
coupled microstrip lines, as shown in Fig. 2(a). The near-end 
crosstalk (NEXT) Vn among the sections of a serpentine delay 
line is well known to accumulate in phase, appearing as a 
laddering wave on the TDT waveform [2, 3]. Hence, the 
concept of trace-to-trace coupling can be utilized to apply the 
crosstalk-induced single-end delay exactly to the differential  
serpentine delay line. 
Under the assumption of weakly coupling, lossless and 
matched loads at both ends, the main signal in the active line 
is rarely influenced by the presence of the crosstalk noise. 
With respect to the ramped step voltage Vi on the active line, 
the saturated near-end crosstalk voltages (for tr<2Td) in the 
victim line can be expressed as [6] 
1
4
m m
n i near i
s s m
L CV V k V
L C C
⎛ ⎞≈ × = × +⎜ ⎟+⎝ ⎠
                   (1) 
where L and C are the inductance and capacitance, and 
subscript s and m indicate self and mutual terms; Td is the line 
delay time, and knear is the near-end crosstalk coefficients.  
    Since the near-end crosstalk is evident at the receiving end 
of a differential serpentine delay line but far-end crosstalk 
appears at the driving end [3], the common-mode noise that is 
induced by the crosstalk effect at the receiving end of a 
differential serpentine delay line should be considered in 
investigating the near-end crosstalk noise. Moreover, because 
the signals that propagate on differential lines are alternate 
between positive and negative, the coupling between two 
differential pairs can be divided into two kinds - a and b, as 
presented in Fig. 5. The near-end common-mode voltage, in 
which is the common-mode voltage at the near-end of parallel 
traces, can be approximated by 
4
1
/ 2common ni
i
V V
=
⎛ ⎞= ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠∑                            (3) 
where the Vni denotes the near-end crosstalk noise that is 
induced by the adjacent traces of differential pairs, as shown 
in Fig. 5. For the same parameters as the previous example in 
section II, Fig. 5 compares the near-end common-mode noise 
waveforms in case a and b. The two couplings, with different 
driving excitations of two differential trace pairs, both appear 
in the serpentine delay line and result in different voltage  
polarity but equal amplitude.  
    In Fig. 4, the common-mode noise at positions c, d, and e of 
the differential serpentine line have a flat DC voltage 
component but do not appear at the receiving end. The flat DC 
voltage component of common-mode noise is similar to the 
near-end common-mode voltage, as presented in Fig. 5. 
Therefore, a popular graphical method that is based on wave 
tracing to illustrate and predict the crosstalk waveforms of two 
coupled transmission lines with matched termination was 
proposed [7]. The graphical method is used to elucidate the 
near-end common-mode noise for a differential serpentine 
delay line as follows. The following illustration, the rise time 
is smaller than double the delay time (Td,p). Furthermore, to 
facilitate the description, Vn,common1 and V’n,common1 represent the 
first and second near-end common-mode noise crosstalk 
couplings, respectively. The terms Vn,common2 and V’n,common2 
denote the two near-end common-mode noise is induced by 
the driving method associated with case b on different 
differential pairs. 
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
Time (ns)
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
C
om
m
on
-m
od
e 
Vo
lta
ge
 (m
V)
( a
t n
ea
r-
en
d 
)
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
oddR
 
Fig. 5. Comparison of near-end common-mode noises induced between two 
differential pairs with two different driving signals cases. 
Consider a differential ramped step pulse, as in the case a 
driving method, which propagates down the left end of 
differential pair 1 of a differential serpentine delay line, as 
shown in Fig. 6(a). Backward propagating common-mode 
noise crosstalk (Vn,common1) with negative polarity is 
immediately induced on the left end of differential pair 2, as 
presented in Fig. 6(a). After time Td,p, Vn,common1 propagates 
through the vertical-turn coupled traces to near the right end of 
differential pair 3. Simultaneously, the differential sources 
arrive at the right end of differential pair 1, as displayed in Fig. 
6(b). At time Td,p+ Td,vt , as shown in Fig. 6(c), the differential 
sources arrive at the right end of differential pair 2 and the 
driving method switches from case a to case b owing to the 
serpentine routing. Additionally, the two near-end common-
mode noises (V’n,common2 and Vn,common2) with positive polarity at 
the right end of differential pair 1 and 3 are immediately 
induced by the differential sources with the case b driving 
method, as presented in Fig. 6(c). During the period (Td,p+ 
Td,vt)~( 1.5Td,p+ Td,vt), the V’n,common2 propagates through the 
vertical-turn coupled traces toward the left end of differential 
pair 2. Simultaneously, the two near-end common-mode 
noises, Vn,common2 and Vn,common1, with different voltage 
polarities cancel out, as shown in Fig. 6(d). Then, when the 
differential sources propagate through the vertical-turn 
coupled traces and reach the left end of differential pair 3, the 
2010/10/24~2010/10/27 美國奧斯汀 EPEPS會議心得。 
 
「19th Conference on Electrical Performance of Electronic Packaging and 
Systems」研討會，該研討會本持一貫的傳統，paper質精且不易被接受發表，因
此每年僅收錄相當少量的 paper，在研討會中可以發現有大量的美國與各國知名
大廠(像 Intel、IBM、Rambus、Texas Instruments、、、等等)都有發表 paper，實
屬ㄧ個業界(實務)與學術界(理論)相當均衡的研討會。 
 會議分為上台報告與 POSTER兩種部分，此次的 paper被分配到 POSTER
部分。一開始，由 IBM工程師揭開序幕並歡迎各位貴賓親臨會場，現場可以很
明顯的感受到專業的氣氛，對此領域有相當專業之工程師與學者，無不屏息呼
吸，專心地聆聽台上演講人精闢的講解，且在 Q&A時間提出自己的見解與看法，
休息時間更可看到發問者與演講者互相討論，會議上可以學習現今的電子構裝與
系統的最新資訊，經驗的相互交流是非常重要的。在 POSTER期間，與各國學
者及工程師激烈討論 paper的內容，利用英文的交流，是國內相關會議所沒辦法
學習到的部份，在交談討論的過程中，可以發現許多人對我的研究感到興趣，對
結果無不嘖嘖稱奇，直呼非常有趣，這也增加對自我研究的信心，而因為此會議
為較專業方面的會議，從中可以學習到許多研究相關資訊，討論的內容也較為深
入且能從討論中找出未來可能遇到的問題與改善方法。 
 參加此國際會議，不難發現，許多的大廠牌公司特別為研發相關部門皆有發
表 paper，且篇數皆佔全部 paper之多數，由此可見此專業領域的重要性，所被
重視的程度是非常大的，也更加深了我對所學之專業領域的信心，對往後的研究
能更有信心去完成。會議現場除了學術研究單位外，也有許多國際知名大廠的加
入，讓我更了解學術與實務並進的重要性，學術能融合入實務使用，能是研究的
最終目的，參加此國際會議，讓我收穫良多！ 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：薛光華 計畫編號：99-2221-E-033-014- 
計畫名稱：高速數位差模信號連線之共模雜訊抑制技術探討 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
