is required to apply a voltage higher than the 
critical voltage to transit the cells from the splay 
state to the bend state. The transfer process takes a 
period of time to stabilize the bend state before the 
efficient operation could be started, and thus it is 
termed the warm-up time or transition time. In this 
study, the surface of polyimide alignment films were 
modified by ion beams to promote the transition. A 
large number of nucleation sites were demonstrated to 
reduce the transition time from 24 s to 17 s after 
the effective surface modification by Ar+ ion beam. 
Both H2 gas and Ar gas were employed as the ion 
sources at the different 165-250 eV energy levels. 
The surface characteristic analysis results also 
showed that the room temperature contact angle with 
water was reduced from 90.1° to 81.7°. In the 
meanwhile, there was no obvious morphological 
destruction on the polyimide film surface, which was 
evidenced by the atomic force microscopy study. In 
addition, the LCD cells remained an excellent 
response time of 3.4 ms at 5.5 V. 
英文關鍵詞： Polyimide, Ion beam, Liquid crystal display, 
Transition time 
 
(OCB) mode is a liquid crystal display mode using bend alignment of liquid crystal
molecules [1]. It exhibits the fast response time and wide-viewing angle characteristics [2,3].
While driving the cell in the bend state, the liquid crystal molecules in the cell center
experience zero elastic torque during the off-state relaxation process, thus providing a fast
display response [4]. The cell is usually fabricated with alignment layers in the same rubbing
direction on both substrates. The initial liquid crystal configuration is in a splay state [5,6],
and an applied voltage transits the liquid crystal cell from the splay state to the bend states.
The cell then displays images by switching between two bend states (bend I and bend II).
However, the initial voltage required to set the bend state is relatively high, so that the power
consumption is inevitably increased. The slow transition from the splay state to the initial
bend state also increases the response time.
Several methods have been proposed to reduce the transition time or warm up time from
the splay state to the bend state, including overdrive voltage [7], imposed electric field, and
improved pre-tilt angle control [8]. However, the cell driving voltage remained high, and the
stability and reliability issues have not been resolved. The potential applications for
large-area liquid crystal display cell panels are also highly desired. In this paper, we have
developed a novel method to modify the surface material to improve the transition process.
The initial nucleation for the splay-to-bend transition can thus be enhanced to decrease the
transition time [9,10]. We employed ion beam technology to modify the polyimide (PI)
alignment films and measured the electro-optical characteristics of the liquid crystal cells. Ion
beam technology was made possible by IBM as a non-contact alignment technology [11]. The
use of ion beam bombardment at the selected angle on the organic or inorganic films, by
selective bond breaking, creates anisotropic surface structure for the liquid crystal alignment.
A schematic illustration of the operation principle is shown in Fig. 1. A Kaufman-type ion
gun source was used to produce positive ions with an acceleration voltage. The RF (radio
frequency) neutralizer delivered negative charges to avoid excessive charge accumulation on
the alignment films. Both Ar gas and H2 gas were used as the sources at different plasma
discharge energy levels. The surface characteristics were analyzed by the atomic force
microscopy (AFM) and water contact angle analysis. In addition, liquid crystal cells were
assembled and evaluated. The limitation on the slow transition of OCB liquid crystal cells
could be resolved by the adequate initial splay-to-bend nucleation control. The external high
voltage and the long electrical charging time can be eliminated for the liquid crystal displays.
2. Experimental
ion beam treatment process. Fig. 6 shows the optical micrographs during the transition
process for both samples A and B. The nucleation sites could be clearly observed from the
splay to bend process in Fig. 6(a) and 6(b). The reverse process from bend to splay is given in
Fig. 6(c) and 6(d). The corresponding transition time data are summarized in Table 3. The
transition time of the ion beam-treated sample B was greatly reduced to 17 s from 24 s for the
splay-to-bend transition. It represented only 70% of the control sample, and the total
transition time was reduced to 59% of the control sample cell. On the other hand, the cell
characteristics at a lower magnification are provided in Fig. 7 for the other samples C, D, E
and F. The first three sample cells exhibited damaged images with liquid crystal injection
flow marks, likely due to the very high ion beam energy and dosages. The PI alignment film
was probably damaged and could not effectively control the liquid crystal molecules. As to
sample F, the ion beam energy and dose level was so low that no clear image control was
observed. The processing parameters for H2 ion source should thus be further optimized. On
the other hand, the contact angle analysis results are shown in Fig. 8. The room temperature
contact angle with water was reduced from 90.1° to 81.7°, indicating a slight improvement in
its hydrophilicity. In addition, the nucleation rate analysis results versus the elapsed time up
to 6 sec are shown in Fig. 9. It has been clearly evidenced that the nucleation rate would have
been dramatically increased for the ion beam-treated cell sample. This is in accordance with
the improved response time results. Therefore, the Ar+ ion beam process has been very
effective in improving the response time for liquid crystal displays.
4. Conclusion
We have successfully prepared high response time OCB cells by the ion beam
technology. The ion beam process increased the nucleation rate on PI alignment film, while
no discernible surface structure damage could be observed by AFM. The slight increase in
water contact angle implied a chemical bonding change on the surface of PI material. We
could observe the decrease in transition time from the splay to bend state to the level of only
70%, and the total transition time was only 59% of the control sample. In addition, we have
found out that the nucleation number was substantially increased after the effective ion beam
treatments. The warm up time was thus greatly reduced, and the original advantages of OCB
cell were still well preserved.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council under research grant
Fig. 2. The basic substrate structure for ion beam study.
Fig. 3. The liquid crystal cell pre-tilt angle TBA-107
analysis system that employs a rotation principle.
Fig. 4. Surface analysis of PI alignment film by AFM.
0 2 4 6 8 10
0
20
40
60
80
100
Tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
(%
)
Voltage (V)
control
experiment
Fig. 5. Transmission versus applied voltage for OCB cells.
Fig. 6. Optical micrographs during the transition process:
(a) sample B from 2 V to 5.5 V, (b) sample A from
2 V to 5.5 V, (c) sample B from 5.5 V to 2 V, and (d)
sample A from 5.5 V to 2 V.
Fig. 7. Cell characteristics Photographs of the ion beam
treated samples: (a) sample C, (b) sample D, (c)
sample E, and (d) sample F.
Fig. 8. Contact angle analysis microphotos for (a) sample A
and (b) sample B.
Fig. 9. The nucleation rate analysis results versus the
elapsed time up to 6 sec.
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
100 年 5 月 8 日
報告人姓名 吳國梅 服務機構
及職稱
長庚大學
教授
時間
會議
地點
2011.5.2-2011.5.6
San Diego, CA, USA
美國聖地牙哥
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 99-2221-E-182-001
會議
名稱
(中文) 第三十八屆國際冶金鍍膜與薄膜技術研討會
(英文) The 38th International Conference on Metallurgical Coatings & Thin
Films (ICMCTF 2011)
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 常壓電漿處理改善快速反應液晶顯示器之成核與轉態研究
(英文) Improved Nucleation and Transition in Fast Response Liquid Crystal
Displays by Atmospheric Plasma Treatments
報告內容應包括下列各項：
一、參加會議經過
二、與會心得
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
四、建議
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
六、其他
附
件
三
表 Y04
Optoelectronic Device Applications
D Biomedical Coatings
E Tribology and Mechanical Behavior of Coatings and Thin Films
F New Horizons in Coatings and Thin Films
G Applications, Manufacturing, and Equipment
TS1 Computational and Experimental Studies of Inorganic, Organic, and Hybrid
Thin Films: An Atomestic View
TS2 Coatings and Materials for Fuel Cells and Batteries
TS3 Surface Engineering for Thermal Transport, Storage, and Harvesting
TS4 Characterization: Linking Synthesis, Microstructure, and Properties
TS5 Energetic Materials and Micro-Structures for Nanomanufacturing
TS6 Coatings for Microelectronics and Active Devices。
首日大會的邀請演講是由美國 University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana 的
Prof. Joseph Greene 講述 Fundamental Properties of TM Nitrides and Design
Strategies for Growth of Self-Organized Nitride Nanostructures，探討多種氮化合物
薄膜結構的設計及其在工業運用的發展，Prof. Greene 是薄膜領域主要期刊 Thin
Solid Films 的 Editor-in-Chief，過去曾主編過 CRC Critical Reviews in Solid State
and Materials Science，目前並兼任國際多所大學的講座教授，如瑞典 Linkoping
University 以及 National Taiwan University of Science and Technology。另一場主題
演講是由美國 Reactive Sputtering, Inc.及 Colorado School of Mines 的 Dr. William
Sproul 代表，主講題為 Reactive Sputtering: Evolution, Development, and Latest
Trends，此為設備儀器展示會引言的 Exhibitors Keynote Session speaker，兼負引
導 thin film、vacuum technologies、industrial coating applicators、end-users、suppliers
表 Y04
Institute for Material and Beam Technology 的 Dr. Braun 主講 Characterization of
Nanometer Films by X-Ray and EUV Reflectometry。巴西 State University of San
Paulo 的 Prof. Bortoleto 主講 Morphological Evolution and Optical Characterization
of ZnO Thin Films on PET and Glass Substrates by RF-Sputtering Technique，著眼
於軟板的應用。
(三) 考察參觀活動：
主辦單位有安排四場 Focused Topic Session Presentation，可利用中午自由參
加。
A. CETR: Comprehensive Mechanical Tribilogical and Corrosion In-Situ
Characterization of Thin Films.
B. VAMAS TWA22 Annual General Meeting: Mechanical Property Measurements of
Thin Films and Coatings.
C. CSM: Latest Developments in Surface Mechanical Property Characterization
Methods.
D. Elsevier Workshop: Thin Solid Films, Surface and Coatings Technology, and
Vacuum, by Jan Willem Wijnen, Joe Greene, Allan Matthews and John Colligon.
(四) 建議:
今年 Taiwan Association for Coating and Thin Film Technology (TACT)年底在
台灣舉辦，正利用此次薄膜國際研討會大力宣傳，並邀請 Thin Solid Films 期刊
表 Y04
pressure plasma beam treatments. The proposed process method was demonstrated to
be highly effective in improving the overall transition time. The number of
splay-to-bend nucleation sites in the liquid crystal cells could be increased
dramatically by up to 20 times at the initial stage, and the improvement in the cell
warm-up time was achieved at 45-71% reduction at 5.5 V. The various plasma
processing parameters were optimized at the plasma power of 700 W, plasma
distance of 25 mm, and plasma scan speed of 600 mm/sec. In addition, we maintained
the excellent optical properties and response time characteristics for the OCB mode
liquid crystal displays.
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳國梅 計畫編號：99-2221-E-182-001- 
計畫名稱：新型高分子微奈米結構配向薄膜及其液晶顯示光電特性研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 5 5 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 1 1 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
