超大型奈米積體電路無格線式全晶片繞線系統 (3/3) 
Gridless Full-Chip Routing for Very-Large Scale Nanometer ICs 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-002-374 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：張耀文教授   國立臺灣大學電子工程學研究所 
 
一､中文摘要 
隨著奈米技術的進步，在化學機械研磨之後的介電
質厚度控制也變得對製造收斂有著關鍵的影響。為了增
進化學機械研磨的品質，在繞線之後以 dummy feature 
作填充是製造廠所使用的一種典型技術，然而，dummy 
feature 的填充卻可能大幅降低連線效能以及光罩資料
的激增，也因此我們需要在繞線時考慮金屬線密度以減
少 dummy feature 填充的負面效應。在這個計劃中，我
們提出了一個可以考慮金屬線密度的全晶片繞線系統。
為了考慮金屬線的分佈，我們採用二次式由上而下的繞
線架構，並且使用了全新的金屬線密度分析技術與金屬
層配置法。實驗結果顯示我們所提出的作法可以獲得比
近年最新的研究獲得更平均的金屬線分佈。 
關鍵詞：可製造性、化學機械研磨、繞線 
 
二､英文摘要(Abstract) 
As nanometer technology advances, the post-CMP 
dielectric thickness variation control becomes crucial for 
manufacturing closure. To improve CMP quality, dummy 
feature filling is typically performed by foundries after the 
routing stage. However, filling dummy features may greatly 
degrade the interconnect performance and lead to explosion 
of mask data. It is thus desirable to consider wire-density 
uniformity during routing to minimize the side effects from 
aggressive postlayout dummy filling. In this project, we 
present a new full-chip routing system considering wire 
density for reticle planarization enhancement. To fully 
consider wire distribution, the router applies a novel 
two-pass, top-down planarity-driven routing framework, 
which employs a new density critical area analysis based on 
Voronoi diagrams and incorporates an intermediate stage of 
density-driven layer/track assignment based on incremental 
Delaunay triangulation. Experimental results show that our 
methods can achieve more balanced wire distribution than 
state-of-the-art works. 
Keywords: Manufacturability, chemical-mechanical 
polishing, routing 
 
三､背景和目的 
As IC process geometries shrink to 65nm and below, one 
important yield loss of interconnects comes from the 
chemical-mechanical polishing (CMP) step in the copper 
metallization (Damascene) process. Because of the 
difference in hardness between copper and dielectric 
materials, the CMP planarizing process might generate 
topography irregularities. A non-uniform feature density 
distribution on each layer causes CMP to over polish or 
under polish, generating metal dishing and dielectric erosion 
[22]. These thickness variation ns have to be carefully 
controlled, since the variation in one interconnect level is 
progressively transferred to subsequent levels during 
manufacturing, and finally the compounding variation can 
be significant on an upper level, which is often called the 
multi-layer accumulative effect [23]. 
Two key problems arise from the post-CMP thickness 
variation: (1) the layout surface fluctuates inside or outside 
the depth of focus (DOF) of the photolithography system, 
such that the exposed patterns do not appear acceptably 
sharp and open/short defects may even occur, and (2) these 
irregular variations greatly change the electrical 
characteristics of interconnects, especially for resistance and 
capacitance, degrading the accuracy of timing analysis and 
worsening the electromigration. As a result, in order to 
improve chip thickness uniformity, TSMC recommends 
performing virtual CMP (VCMP) analysis to identify the 
metal and dielectric thickness variation hotspot before chip 
fabrication for 65nm manufacturing processes (see TSMC 
Reference Flows 7.0) [24]. 
Recently, routing considering wire distribution has 
attracted much attention in the literature. The earlier studies 
for CMP processes have indicated that the post-CMP 
dielectric thickness is highly correlated to the layout pattern 
density, because during the polishing step, interlevel 
dielectric (ILD) removal rates are varied with the pattern 
density [23]. Further, the layout pattern (consisting of wires 
and dummy features) density can be systematically 
determined by the wire density distribution, as reported in 
[9]. Therefore, managing wire density at the routing stage 
has great potential for alleviating the aggressive dummy 
feature filling induced problems. 
In this project, we present a new full-chip grid-based 
routing system, named TTR (Two-pass Top-down 
grid-based Router), considering wire-distribution uniformity 
for density variation minimization. To fully consider wire 
distribution, the router is based on a novel two-pass, 
top-down planarization-driven routing framework.  
Compared with the density-driven routing system [20], 
experimental results show that TTR can achieve 43% 
reduction on the maximum number of nets crossing in tiles 
and obtain at least 35% smaller standard deviations of wire 
distribution. 
 
四､研究方法 
4.1 Routing Model 
We first explain the routing model. As illustrated in Fig. 
1, Gk corresponds to the routing graph of level k. Each level 
contains a number of global cells (GCs), and the GCs 
belonging to different levels have different sizes. We denote 
GCk as the GC of level k. 
The first top-down routing pass is for global routing, 
which starts uncoarsening from the coarsest level to the 
finest level (level 0). At each level k, our global router finds 
routing paths for the local nets (those nets that entirely sit 
inside GCk but not inside GCk−1). After all the global 
routings of level k are performed, we divide one GCk into 
four smaller GCk−1 and at the same time perform resource 
estimation for use at level k-1. Uncoarsening continues until 
4.2.3 Density-Driven Layer Assignment 
Recently, Cong et al. [11] proposed the first 
wire-planning scheme between global and detailed routers 
to reduce congestion. Batterywala et al. [2] also suggested to 
add a track assignment stage between global and detailed 
routing to improve the routing quality. Ho et al. [14] 
developed a layer/track assignment heuristic in the 
intermediate stage for crosstalk optimization. Later in [15], 
Ho et al. further extended their track assigner for the 
wirelength reduction in X-architecture routing. However, 
wire density is not addressed in these works. 
In this project, we propose a new layer/track assignment 
algorithm for wire-density optimization. To our best 
knowledge, this is the first work of wire planning that 
addresses the wire-density optimization in the literature. We 
handle long horizontal (vertical) segments which span more 
than one complete global tile in a row (column) in the 
middle layer/track assignment stage and delegate short 
segments to the detailed router. The full row (or column) of 
a global tile array is called a row (column) panel. We will 
refer to a row panel as a panel throughout the paper for 
brevity, unless specified otherwise. 
In a panel, the local density of a column is defined as the 
total number of segments and obstacles at that column, and 
the panel density is the maximum local density among all 
columns. For example, Fig. 2(a) gives a row panel with 11 
columns, c1 to c11. There are six segments s1 to s6 in the 
panel and two obstacles o1 and o2 in layers, and its panel 
density is equal to 4. We intend to evenly arrange these 
segments to two horizontal layers (say layers 1 and 3) while 
minimizing the panel density at each layer. The 
density-driven layer assignment problem is defined as 
follows. 
The Density-driven Layer Assignment (DLA) Problem: 
Given a set L of layers, a set S of disjoint segments in a 
panel, and a set O of fixed obstacles in layers, assign each 
segment of S to a layer, such that for each layer the local 
density is balanced, and the panel density is minimized. 
To solve the DLA problem, we partition the segments 
and obstacles in each panel into |L| layer groups such that 
the main objective of DLA is achieved. 
First, we build the horizontal constraint graph HCG(V,E) 
for S and O in the panel. Each vertex v∈V corresponds to a 
segment or an obstacle, and two vertices vi and vj are 
connected by an edge e∈ E if their spans overlap. The cost 
of edge e(vi, vj) is defined as the maximal local density 
among the overlapping columns between vi and vj . With 
this weighting policy, if two vertices are connected by an 
edge with a high cost, they should be separated into 
different layers. Fig. 2(b) shows the HCG of the panel in Fig. 
2(a). Here, the obstacle o2 and segment s3 overlap in 
columns c3 and c4, and the maximal local density of c3 and 
c4 is 3. So the cost of the edge (o2, s3) equals 3. 
Consequently, we can formulate the DLA problem as a 
max-cut, k-coloring problem (MCP) [10] on the HCG graph, 
where k equals |L|. In this way, we can guarantee that the 
partitioning result can evenly distribute the segments of the 
maximal local density to different layer groups. However, 
the MCP is NP-complete [10]. Thus, we resort to a simple, 
yet efficient heuristic by constructing a maximum spanning 
tree on the HCG and applying a k-coloring algorithm on this 
tree. Note that the k-coloring algorithm on a tree can be 
solved in linear time. Fig. 2(c) shows a layer-partitioning 
result of Fig. 2(a), where s1, s2, s3 and s6 are partitioned as 
one layer group, and o2, s4, s5 and o1 are partitioned as 
another one. Note that the objects o1, s3, s5, and s6 at 
columns c9 and c10 that induce the maximum local density 
are separated into two different layer groups. 
 
Fig. 2: A density-driven layer assignment example. 
 
At the last step, since obstacles are already in fixed 
layers, we applied a minimum-impact repair procedure for 
obstacles. If an obstacle is not placed in the right layer (e.g., 
o1 in Fig. 2(c)), the layer of a vertex vo of an obstacle is 
exchanged with that of a vertex vs of a segment such that the 
edge cost (vo, vs) is the maximum among the edges 
connected with vo in the maximum spanning tree. If there 
does not exist such a vertex vs, we can just assign vo to the 
correct layer since there is no segment there (otherwise, 
there must be an edge connected with vo). The final 
assignment result after the repair procedure for exchanging 
the layer of vertex o1 with that of vertex s6 is shown in Fig. 
2(d). As a result, the final assignment has a very balanced 
density distribution that the average local density of layer 1 
is 1.18 and that of layer 3 is 1.27 while the panel densities in 
both layers equal 2. See Figs. 2 (e) and (f) for the resulting 
segment assignments for layers 1 and 3, respectively. 
 
4.3 Experimental Results 
The TTR routing system was implemented in the C++ 
programming language on a 1.2 GHz SUN Blade-2000 
workstation with 8GB memory. We used the LEDA 
packages to compute the Voronoi diagrams and Delaunay 
triangulation. We conducted the experiments based on the 
11 MCNC routing benchmarks [3] (these designs have 3–4 
routing layers and contain up to 28K connections). 
Table I shows the comparison results on the MCNC 
benchmarks. As shown in the tables, all routers obtain 100% 
routing completion on the MCNC benchmarks, and both 
routers applying the new framework of TTR outperform the 
multilevel router MROR in wire uniformity. Compared with 
 
ACM International Symposium on Physical Design (ISPD-2007) 
張耀文 
台灣大學電子工程學研究所 
 
一､參加會議經過 
ACM International Symposium on Physical Design (ISPD) is sponsored by ACM and 
is a premier conference on VLSI physical design automation. It is a great honor for a 
researcher to have a chance to present her/his work at this conference. This year’s 
event was held inAustin, Texas, U.S.A on March 18--21, 2007.  
 
二､與會心得 
This year we have two papers accepted by ISPD-2007, the most in the world. The first 
paper is entitled “X-architecture placement based on effective wire models” (joint 
work with my students T.-C. Chen and Y.-L. Chuang); this paper received the highest 
score in the review and was nominated for best paper. The abstract is as follows: 
 
In this paper, we derive the X-half-perimeter wirelength (XHPWL) model for 
X-architecture placement and explore the effects of three different wire models 
on X-architecture placement, including the Manhattan-half-perimeter wirelength 
(MHPWL) model, the XHPWL model, and the X-Steiner wirelength (XStWL) 
model. For min-cut partitioning placement, we propose a generalized 
net-weighting method that can exactly model the wirelength after partitioning by 
the net weight. The net-weighting method is general and can be incorporated 
into any wire models such as the XHPWL and XStWL models. For analytical 
placement, we smooth the XHPWL function using log-sum-exp functions to 
facilitate analytical placement. Our study shows that both the XHPWL model 
and the XStWL model can reduce the X wirelength. In particular, our results 
reveal the effectiveness of the X architecture on wirelength reduction during 
placement and thus the importance of the study on the X-placement algorithms, 
which is different from the results given in the previous work that the 
X-architecture placement might not improve the X-routing wirelength over the 
Manhattan-architecture placement. 
