行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
自由曲面設計與製作研究 
Design and Fabrication of an Astigmatic Lens 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-492 -009 
執行期間：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：許巍耀 
協同研究人員：郭慶祥、鄭源傑、林永涼、吳承祐 
中文摘要 
本研究主要是在發展像散透鏡之設計與製作。像散透鏡是以雙曲率曲面構成，使其在水平
與垂直方向上有不同的焦長。藉由分光元件將像散透鏡與圓形準直雷射光加入顯微鏡系
統，使回射之雷射光因失焦程度而有不同的光斑形狀變化，經換算後可得到其失焦信號。
利用事先建立的失焦信號曲線即可使顯微鏡具有自動對焦的功能。本研究配合顯微鏡系統
規格與指定的對焦範圍，進行像散透鏡的設計，並利用光學設計軟體進行模擬分析。在確
認像散透鏡規格後。以慢刀伺服加工技術進行此透鏡元件製作。最後進行系統組裝與性能
測試，實測的失焦信號曲線與模擬結果十分吻合。 
Abstract. This paper focuses on the design and fabrication of the astigmatic lens which is applied 
to the auto focus microscope system. A collimated laser beam is introduced into the microscope 
system and reflected by the sample. Because of the focal length difference in sagittal and 
tangential plane of the astigmatic lens, the reflected laser beam shape is changed according to the 
defocus distance and detected by a four-quadrant photo diode. The astigmatic lens is designed as 
a bi-conic surface which is a non-rotational symmetric surface and could be fabricated by the 
ultra-precision machine with slow tool servo (STS) function. Finally, the astigmatic lens was 
tested and the result shows it has good performance.  
Keywords: astigmatic lens, bi-conic surface, slow tool servo. 
Introduction 
We designed and fabricated the astigmatic lens for an auto focus microscope system. Fig.1 
shows the layout of the optical microscope with astigmatic auto focus system. An astigmatic auto 
focus system consists of a laser source, a four-quadrant photodiode, an astigmatic lens, and two 
beam splitters. This system is installed into an infinite-corrected microscope system [1]. The laser 
with 850nm wavelength passes through beam splitter A (50% reflection and 50% transmission of 
infrared light), and then is reflected by beam splitter B (high transmission for visible light and 
high reflection for infrared light). Then the laser beam passes consecutively through the objective 
lens and strikes the sample surface. After the above procedures, the laser beam is reflected by the 
sample surface and reverses back to beam splitter A, and then goes into the astigmatic lens, 
finally strikes the four-quadrant photodiode. Because of the focal length difference of the sagittal 
As shown in Fig. 2, the distance between the four quadrant photodiode and the astigmatic lens 
has a relationship with the sagittal and tangential focal length of the astigmatic lens. The 
relationship follows: 
( )stst ffffd += 2            (1). 
In general, a sample would be inspected at the objective’s focal point. If the sample position 
deviated from the objective’s focal point and out of the depth of focus, we can’t get clear image 
on the image sensor. The sample defocus distance Δz could be modeled as a point light source 
which has a distance δ (double Δz). The spot shape on the image plane becomes an ellipse shape 
when the point light source departs away from the objective’s focal point. As shown in Fig. 3, h 
and w are the spot image heights in tangential and sagittal plane respectively, and FES is 
determined by calculating the area of each quarter of the four quadrant photodiode. Based on the 
geometrical optic theory, FES is expressed as [1]: 
1tan4FES 1 −⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛= −
h
w
π           (2). 
If we defined the e as: 
( )oto flfe −−= δ2            (3), 
we could get the astigmatic lens focal length as follow: 
( )
( )deedf
deedf
t
s
−=
+=
           (4). 
Finally, we get the bi-conic surface parameters in a given reflective index of the astigmatic 
lens as: 
( )
( )1
1
−=
−=
nfR
nfR
ss
tt              (5) 
 
Fig. 3   Laser beam shape variation according to the sample position 
In this study, a commercial 20X objective is chosen, +/- 50μm working range of auto focus 
system is given, and the distance between the astigmatic lens and four-quadrant photo diode is set 
as 50mm. The radius curvature parameters of the bi-conic surface were Rt=-26.450mm and 
Rs=-22.818mm for tangential and sagittal plane respectively. 
Astigmatic Lens Fabrication 
The bi-conic surface is a non-rotational symmetrical surface, it is difficult to be fabricated by 
traditional diamond turning machine method. We use the software DIFFSYS and ultra-precision 
freeform machine FF705XG to fabricate the bi-conic surface. FF705XG is an ultra-precision 
A C
B
D
FES = ((QA+QC)-(QB+QD))/(QA+QB+QC+QD)
In Focus
FES=0
Too Far 
FES>0 
Too Close 
FES<0 
h
w 
  
-100 -50 0 50 100
-1
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Microscope Relative Distance (μm )
FE
S
FES curve of 20X Objective
Experiment
Simulation of Geometric Optics
 
      Fig. 6  Astigmatic lenses        Fig. 7 FES curves of 20X objective 
Summary 
We developed a methodology to design the astigmatic lens for the auto focus microscope system. 
We used DIFFSYS and ultra-precision machine with slow tool servo function to fabricate the lens 
and then assemble them into the system. The experimental results show that the FES curve of the 
astigmatic auto focus system is in good agreement with the geometric optics simulation result. 
Acknowledgement 
This work was supported by the National Science Council, Republic of China under grants: NSC 
95-3114-P-001-008-MY3, NSC 97-2221-E-492-008 and NSC 97-2221-E-492-009 
References 
[1] Wei-Yao Hsu, Chien-Shing Lee, Po-Jui Chen, Nien-Tsu Chen, Fong-Zhi Chen, Zong-Ru Yu, 
Ching-Hsiang Kuo, and Chi-Hung Hwang: submitted to Measurement Science and 
Technology 
[2] Masud Mansuripur: Applied Optics 26 (1987), p.3981-6  
[3] Information on http://www.precitech.com/Precitech_sts_overview.html 
[4] DIFFSYS User manual, Western Isle Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
