 
中文關鍵詞： 晶片系統,無線感測器網路,熱電能源採集器,多層堆疊結構,
量子井 
英 文 摘 要 ： A wireless sensor network (WSN) consists of multiple 
sensor nodes for sensing, data computing, power 
management and wireless communicating at 2.4 GHz to 
24 GHz.  Micro energy harvesters convert ambient 
energies into usable electrical power is most 
critical in facilitating autonomous WSN.  System on 
Chip (SoC) design integrating micro sensors, 
computing units, RF transceivers, and on-chip power 
supply requires monolithic integration of CMOS 
circuit and micro energy harvester.  Because of the 
stringent fabrication and space constraints, 
miniaturization of energy harvesters and integration 
with CMOS process have never been addressed.  This 
proposal aims at the development of novel micro 
energy harvesters (&micro；TEGs) fully compatible to  
standard CMOS process.  By using the thermal 
isolation design, stacked structure multilayer 
design, and quantum well design--they are the first 
in the open literature--the &micro；TEGs are to 
achieve more than 5 times of performance compared 
with the state-of-the-art power factor 0.0426 
&micro；W/cm2K2 by Infineon. The proposal will be 
carried out in 3 years: 
 
(1) The first year project (2009.8-2010.7): Design of 
hybrid &micro；TEG with thermal isolation  
(2) The second year project (20010.8-2011.7): Design 
of stacked &micro；TEG (ML-&micro；TEG) 
  
(3) The third year project (20011.8-2012.7): Design  
of quantum well &micro；TEG (QW-&micro；TEG) 
Improving performance and process stability &micro；
TEG is challenging since design and fabrication of 
&micro；TEG are constrained by CMOS process in terms 
of configuration, material, and process.  It is 
expected that the power and voltage factors of a 
&micro；TEG can be improved by stacking thermolegs 
and adopting low-dimensional thermoelectric 
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
期末報告 
 
以多層堆疊結構與量子井提昇熱電能源採集器 
性能之研究 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫    
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-006-098-MY3 
執行期間：2009  年 8 月  1 日至 2012  年 7 月  31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：成功大學 航空太空工程學系 
計畫主持人：楊世銘 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：完整報告  
 
本 成 果 報 告 包 括 以 下 應 繳 交 之 附 件 ： 
□ 赴 國 外 出 差 或 研 習 心 得 報 告 一 份 
□ 赴 大 陸 地 區 出 差 或 研 習 心 得 報 告 一 份 
□ 出 席 國 際 學 術 會 議 心 得 報 告 及 發 表 之 論 文 各 一 份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
v 涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 v 二年後可公開查詢 
  
 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年   8 月  1  日 
 
 
 3
以多層堆疊結構與量子井提昇熱電能源採集器性能之研究  
 
摘要 
 
關鍵詞: 晶片系統,無線感測器網路,熱電能源採集器,多層堆疊結構,量子井 
 
  無線感測器網路由大量的無線感測器節點分布在應用系統中所構成，應用層面極為
廣泛，雖節點之耗能隨電路、製程以及運算方法的演進不斷降低，但其中最重要的元
件仍為一尺寸小、壽命長、足夠且可靠之能源供應器，將環境中的能量轉換為可用之
電能。近來已有許多研究將無線感測器節點之感測、運算、無線傳輸等電路整合於同
一晶片系統，預期晶片系統在尺寸、成本與效能上將開啟許多嶄新應用領域。由於晶
片系統之積體電路皆由金氧半導體製程實現，整合之能源採集器須具備良好製程相容
性，且須符合設計規範與材料限制。此外由於晶片系統在面積上的限制，如何在小尺
寸下實現高效能之能源採集更提高設計困難度。本研究提出新型能源採集器之設計以
提升熱電轉換效能，應用此計畫首先提出多層堆疊以及量子井設計，從元件構造以及
材料熱電特性提升微型熱電轉換器之輸出功率，並以金氧半導體製程實現，元件之功
率係數可達現行 Infineon (Strasser et al, 2004) 0.0426 µW/cm2K2之 5 倍以上，並可實際
整合於金氧半導體製程中。 
 
第一年計畫(2009.8~2010.7): 微型熱電轉換器之設計 
熱電轉換器由大量之熱電偶電極串聯且熱流並聯所組成，以整合於晶片系統並達
到良好之轉換效率，本研究整合平面與出平面之熱電轉換器形式，加入熱隔絕設計以
限制熱流於熱電材料內並防止其經基材流失。計畫已建立熱電轉換器之有限元素模
型，分析確認有效之熱隔絕設計可維持 > 99% 之溫度梯度。計畫並提出後製程達 10 
μm 高深度之熱隔絕設計，由模型分析輸出功率、電、熱特性與設計尺寸之相互關
係，以設計熱電偶之最佳尺寸達到熱阻、電阻與系統之匹配，以獲得最大之輸出電壓
和功率。 
第二年計畫(2010.8~2011.7) 
提出一新式多層堆疊結構之微型熱電轉換器，利用多層堆疊增加單位面積內之熱電偶
數量，以增加輸出功率與電壓。 
第三年計畫(2011.8~2012.7)提出一新式量子井微型熱電轉換器，利用材料在低維度
型態之熱電優值提升，改善轉換器材料性質以增強輸出功率與電壓。計畫利用異質接
面電晶體之矽化鍺基極實現提出之量子井設計，配合後製程實際整合於標準金氧半導
體製程，以驗證其設計於晶片系統之高度整合性與可行性，可大幅提昇輸出電壓和功
率。 
 
所有設計皆以標準金氧半導體製程實際整合，學術成就已發表 3 篇學術論文、技術創
新已進行專利準備、社會影響已受邀赴 USA, CHINA 演講。 
 
 
 5
1. Introduction  
 (1) Motivation and review of recent works 
Studies on wireless sensor network (WSN) are emerging for applications such as 
pervasive computing, ambient intelligence, and wearable electronics.  A WSN consists of 
multiple wireless sensor nodes for sensing, data computing, power management and wireless 
communicating at frequencies ranging from 2.4 GHz to 24 GHz.  The most critical element of the 
sensor node is the power supply of small size, sufficient power, and long lifetime other than 
traditional batteries. Micro energy harvesters convert energies in ambient environments into 
usable electrical power is most critical in facilitating autonomous wireless sensor node.  System 
on Chip (SoC) design of wireless sensor nodes integrating micro sensors, computing units, RF 
transceivers, and on-chip power supply requires monolithic integration of CMOS circuit and 
micro energy harvester.  Because of the stringent fabrication and space constraints on SoC, 
miniaturization and integration with CMOS process of energy harvesters have never been 
addressed.  Most harvesters are difficult or inadequate to integrate with CMOS process due to 
material and process issues. This proposal aims at the development of novel micro energy 
harvesters that can efficiently convert pervasive thermal energies, and is fully compatible to 
standard CMOS process.   
 
Table 1.1 Representative WSN applications in various areas. 
 
Area Reference Representative applications 
Industrial Shen et al., 2001 Process control and industrial automation 
Military Shi and Perrig, 2004 Battlefield surveillance 
Location Gutierrez et al., 2001 Location awareness 
Safety Callaway et al., 2002 Disaster sites determination 
Automotive Shen et al., 2001 Coordinated vehicle tracking 
Commercial Akyildiz et al., 2002 Product quality monitoring 
Medical Heinzelman et al., 2004 Patient location and health monitoring 
Seismic Doumit and Agrawal, 2002 Earthquake warning systems 
Civil Elvin et al., 2006 Structural health monitoring 
Space Barnhart et al., 2007 Distributed satellite system 
Multimedia Akyildiz et al., 2007 Wireless multimedia sensor networks 
 
Representative WSN applications are listed in Table 1.1. Power consumption of WSNs 
has been drastically reduced by appropriate circuit, power, and communication managements. 
Nodes perform just enough computation to meet the user’s specific demands, such as duty cycle 
method, gracefully scaling down energy consumption (Min et al., 2002). According to the 
investigation by Smart Dust team (Cook et al., 2006), it is clear that a system-on-chip wireless 
sensor node with an active power dissipation of less than 1 mW is not only possible, but likely to 
be commercialized. The performance possible in such a wireless sensor node will be impressive, 
 7
A monolithic implementation of wireless sensor node is based on systems-on-chip (SoC) 
design, which fully integrating  power supply, antenna, and timing reference with CMOS circuit 
and sensor into a single-chip node.  SoC is still the most attractive as the Holy Grail of system 
integration with extreme cost-effectiveness and mass-producibility.  One of the most promising 
SoC projects is “WiseNET” (Enz et al., 2004) successfully integrating a radio, microprocessor, 
data storage, power control, and analog interface.  In response to WiseNET, the “SmartDust” 
recently published a comprehensive investigation of an RF-based SoC approach, discussing the 
remaining work to realize a complete SoC implementation (Cook et al., 2006).  Envisioning 
distributed satellite system consists of multiple satellites designed to work in a coordinated 
fashion to perform a mission, the satellite-on-a-chip idea has sparked a lot of interest in the space 
community, and the satellite SoC is under development in “SpaceChip” project (Barnhart et al., 
2007). 
 
(2) State-of-the-art in thermoelectric energy harvesting 
 
Among all kinds of micro energy harvesters, micro thermoelectric generators (µTEGs) 
converting waste heat into electrical power is promising for on-chip power supply, featuring 
pertinent power density and robust reliability without moving parts. The first commercial µTEG-
powered application was introduced by SEIKO to drive a wrist watch using a person body heat 
(Kishi et al., 1999), and µTEGs with thermoelectric layers deposited by electrochemical 
deposition (Fleural et al., 1999; Snyder et al., 2003) and sputtering (Bottner et al., 2004) have 
been presented.  Standard CMOS process having high yield and process stability have been 
developed for VLSI and memory cells, where chips are made of thin films by deposition.  
Thermoelectric radiation/IR sensors (Graf et al., 2007) and thermoelectric micro thermostats for 
both active heating and cooling (Wijngaards et al., 2004) have been successfully imbedded with 
CMOS process, promising the possibility of monolithic integration of thermoelectric devices and 
CMOS process; however, most µTEGs reported in the literature are usually fabricated with thick-
film process (Fleural et al., 1999; Kishi et al., 1999) to growth thermoelectric material such as V–
VI-compounds Bi2Te3 and (Bi, Sb)2Te3 (Bottner et al., 2004; Bottner et al., 2002) which are 
incompatible to CMOS process. In practice, CMOS process is thin-film technology by nature, 
and the integrations with thick films are still time-consuming and unreliable, moreover, the 
special thermoelectric materials such as bismuth telluride (BiTe) are not allowed to be used in the 
state-of-art CMOS process in view of contaminations of circuit devices and process tools. Thin-
film µTEGs have been first developed by DTS (Stordeur and Stark, 1997); however the folding 
configuration and special materials such as (Bi0.25Sb0.75)2Te3 and Bi2(Se0.lTe0.9)3 are still unable to 
integrate with CMOS process due to contamination issues.  
 
Thermoelectric effects which account for thermoelectric energy conversion are generally 
referred to the Seebeck effect and Peltier effect listed in Table 1.3. Two different thermoelectric 
materials are connected at one end to form a thermocouple, and  heavily doped semiconductors 
has been proposed to replace metals to form the couple due to their much higher thermoelectric 
 9
n p n p n p
p n
Hot reservoir
Cold reservoir
Load
Electrical power output
p n
Heat absorbed
Heat ejected
Electrical power input
µW/cm2K2.   Although these reported µTEGs are likely to integrate with CMOS process, 
however, the fabrication using wafer-bonding (Wang et al., 2007; Kockmann et al., 2007) is low-
yield and unsuitable for batch manufacturing.  Their etching process requires the modification of 
standard CMOS process (Strasser et al., 2004), extra photolithography and mask-tooling, and can 
jeopardize the process stability of CMOS transistor devices.  In addition to fabrication issues, 
novel design frameworks are still needed to improve the performance of µTEG for sufficient on-
chip power supply in SoC.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a)                                    (b)                                               (c) 
 
Figure 1.1   Thermoelectrics of a semiconductor thermocouple: (a) Seebeck effect and (b) Peltier 
effect. (c) Thermoelectric generator comprises a large number of thermocouples connected 
thermally in parallel and electrically in series.  
 
Improving performance and process stability of CMOS µTEG is challenging since the 
design and fabrication of the device are constrained by stringent rule and criteria of standard 
CMOS process in terms of configuration, material, and process.  Compared with the single layer 
designs in prior arts, this proposal presents the concept, design, and implementations of micro 
thermoelectric generators by several innovative designs.    The performance of a µTEG can be 
improved by a thermal isolation cavity to harvest the temperature gradient effectively.  Novel 
multilayer design by stacked structure of TEG has been developed for the first time to improve 
thermal converting performance in CMOS process for reliability.   In addition to the 
improvement by geometry, low dimension materials such as quantum well have also been 
inbedded in the µTEG.  The efficiency of a conventional thermoelectric device is described by 
the dimensionless figure-of-merit 2 /ZT S T k , where T  is the absolute temperature,   and k  
are the electrical and thermal conductivity, respectively, and S  is the Seebeck coefficient. For a 
material to be a good thermoelectric generator a high ZT  is desired, requiring high  , high S , 
and low k . However, in actual material systems it is difficult to improve ZT , as increasing S  
also leads to a simultaneously decrease in  , and an increase in   leads to a comparable 
increase in the electronic contribution to k  due to the Wiedemann-Franz law. As these 
 11
term IC process scaling will reduce the area of memory and digital circuits to below 1 
mm2, but the analog and RF will not be scaled readily as their area is determined by the 
physics of inductors.  Thus the area for µTEG is only about 0.1–0.3 cm2, making it most 
crucial bottleneck in SoC for wireless sensor node. Although µTEGs have been 
intensively studied recently, their miniaturization and integration with CMOS process 
have seldom been addressed due to material and process issues.  
 
3.3 CMOS µTEG design 
Most harvesters are difficult or inadequate to integrate with CMOS process due to 
material and process issues.   The µTEGs reported in the literature are usually fabricated 
with thick-film process to grow thermoelectric material such as V–VI-compounds Bi2Te3 
and (Bi, Sb)2Te3, but they are incompatible to CMOS process.  Infenion, IMEC, and 
IMTEK have developed CMOS-compatible poly-Si µTEGs; however, their fabrication 
using wafer-bonding is low-yield/unsuitable and the modification of CMOS process 
requires extra photolithography and mask tooling, jeopardizing the process stability of 
CMOS transistor devices.   µTEG design by CMOS process remains to be developed 
until this project. 
 
     3.4  Innovative  µTEG design by geometry and material improvement 
 
Hybrid type µTEG design:  new µTEG has  been developed for SoC to achieve high 
output power by 10 μm thermal isolation cavity.  The fabrication is compatible to  TSMC 
0.35 μm 2P4M CMOS and post-CMOS process. 
 
Stacked/Multilayer µTEG design:  the in-plane thermolegs will be in stacked structure of 
multilayer to icrease packing density, hence output power and voltage.  TSMC 0.35 μm 
2P4M CMOS process with a 2-step maskless full post-CMOS process has been employed 
to demonstrate the design and verification.  
 
Quantum well µTEG design: low dimension poly-SiGe thermoelectric has been applied to 
create quantum well in µTEG to increase significantly the figure-of-merit ZT .  TSMC 
0.35 μm 3P3M BiCMOS process has been employed to demonstrate the design and 
verification. 
 
3.5 Improved performance 
µTEG design based on the 2 patents (and some under preparation), “Stacked 
Thermoelectric Device for Power Generation”  and “Thermoelectric Device and Method 
for Fabricating the Same and Chip and Electronic Device,”  have produced µTEGs  
achieving more than 5 times of power factor compared with the state-of-the-art 0.0426 
µW/cm2K2 by Infineon.  
 13
Oxide
Cavity 
of a µTEG can be improved by stacking thermolegs and adapting low-dimensional thermoelectric 
materials of μTEGs.  
 
2.1 Design of Hybrid µTEG with Thermal Isolation Cavity 
 
(1) µTEG Configuration Design 
 
The configurations of µTEGs are categorized in Table 2.1.  The µTEG of cross-plane type is 
shown in Fig. 2.2 (a), which is conventional type of bulk TEG converting energy from the heat 
passing across the chip plane, possessing high output power and efficiency as the heat leakage 
and internal resistance are small. However, the fabrication of cross-plane µTEGs is based on 
thick-film process, although some attempts have been conducted to make cross-plane µTEGs by 
thin-film process, the output power is very low resulting from extreme short length of 
thermoelectric legs (< 1 µm). For monolithic integration of µTEG and CMOS circuits in this 
work, the thick-film process is undesirable as CMOS process is thin-film based, and the post 
thick-film deposition suffers issues of low-yield, unreliable material properties, and will 
introduce a strong thermal stress and thus damage CMOS circuits in the perimeter, rendering 
cross-plane µTEGs incompatible to CMOS process.  The in-plane µTEG is shown in Fig 2.2 (b), 
can convert energy from the heat passing within the chip plane, and the fabrication of the in-plane 
µTEG is based on thin-film process compatible to CMOS process. However, a large portion of 
heat passes through the substrate rather than the thermoelectric leg, namely the output power of 
in-plane µTEG is drastically decreased by this heat leakage. Although the membrane structure of 
10 µm in thickness for passing heat is proposed (Glosch et al., 1999), the heat leakage is still 
inevitable resulting from silicon either underneath or between the thermolegs.  On the other hand, 
the lateral heat path of the in-plane µTEG is not practical for thermal harvesting, of which the 
temperature difference must built up between thin edges of the µTEG chip.   To make CMOS-
compatible µTEGs without disadvantages of in-plane type, a hybrid type µTEG as shown in Fig. 
2.2 (c) is developed in this work, across which heat input from top to bottom surface is confined 
passing through the thermolegs of in-plane fashion by thermal isolation  design in the perimeter 
to eliminate heat leakage.  Such desgin may facilitate thermoelectric conversion and 
correspondingly a high output power.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 (a)                                                       (b)                                                       (c) 
 
Figure 2.2   Configurations of the µTEG: (a) Cross-plane type, (b) in-plane type, and (c) hybrid 
type. Fabrication schemes of hybrid type µTEG.   
 15
gL
gW g
t
A
A’
B B’
AA’
BB’
hA
cA
cd
sL
sW
1. CMOS chip 2. SiO2 vertical etching 3. Si isotropic etching 
 
(c) 
 
Figure 2.3   (a) Modified CMOS process to fabricate cavity with limited depth 2 μm, (b) full 
post-CMOS process used in this work, which can fabricate deep cavity of 10 μm, and (c) steps of 
the proposed post-CMOS process: SiO2 vertical etching and Si isotropic etching after fabricated 
CMOS chip. 
 
(2) Analysis of the Hybrid µTEG by 1D Thermal Circuit Model 
 
The perspectivew of a hybrid µTEG is shown in Fig 2.4(a) which consists of three 
thermocouples interconnected by metal pads.  The arrows denote heat input from hot junctions to 
cold junctions via thermocouples and release from the substrate, where a thermal isolation cavity 
is formed underneath the thermocouple.  A single thermocouple cell is denoted as the dashed line 
rectangular in the top view as shown in Fig 2.4(b), and the cross sections of denoted section are 
shown in Fig 2.4(c), where gL , gW , and gt  are the length, width, and thickness of the thermoleg, 
cd  is the depth of cavities, and hA  and cA  are contact area of the hot and cold junction, as shown 
in horizontal and vertical hatching, respectively. Note that the top metal shown in cross section 
serves as the hard mask in the post-CMOS process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b)  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.4   (a) The perspective diagram, (b) the top view, and (c) cross sections of the hybrid 
µTEG. The dashed line rectangular in (b) denotes a thermocouple cell. 
 
Hot 
junction
Cold 
junction
P-type
Poly
N-type
Poly
Cold 
junction
 17
µTEG
Charge pump
DC-DC converter
Sensor
Transcriver
DC-DC converter
Energy
storage
SW1 SW4
Cin Cout RlVin
SW2 SW3
Vout
In applications within compact chip space, only a small number of thermocouples can be 
integrated and accordingly low output voltage.  For example, Figure 2.5(a) shows the diagram of 
the wireless sensor with µTEG.  Typical circuit techniques for boosting voltages are switched 
capacitor (SC) circuits as shown in Fig 2.5(b), similar to charge pumps converters. Step-up DC-
DC converters start with input 0.7 V, charge pumps to the threshold voltage of transistors1.5 V.  
If lower input has to be processed, special low-threshold transistors or dedicated DC-DC 
converters have to be used. The state-of-art implementation has been reported by Spies et al. 
(2007) showing that, with the start-up of low-level thermoelectric voltage, the efficiency is 
approximately linearly improved with increasing input voltage.  ThusμTEG demands not only 
high output power but also high output voltage.    
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                   
 (a)                                                                 (b)     
Figure 2.5   (a) Block diagram of the wireless transceiver for sensor signals with µTEG power 
supply and (b) practical charge pump as voltage doubler (charging of C: switch SW1 und SW3 
are closed; discharging C: SW2 and SW4 are closed). 
 19
 
Figure 3.1   Front-end process of ML-µTEG: (a) Silicon substrate. (b) Thermal conductive and 
isolative area definition. (c) First P-thermoleg. (d) First N-thermoleg. (e) Second P-thermoleg. (f) 
Second N-thermoleg.  (g) Third P-thermoleg. (h) Third N-thermoleg. 
 
Figure 3.1 to 3.3 illustrate the proposed stacked thermoelectric device (Figures are not to 
scale for clarity). In Fig. 3.1 (a), a substrate, such as a silicon substrate or other thermal 
conductive substrate, comprising a first region and a second region is provided. In Fig. 3.1 (b), 
the first region serves as a thermal insulating region and the second region as a thermal 
conductive region. The first and second dielectric layers are formed overlying the substrate of the 
first and second regions, respectively. The first dielectric layer is thicker than the second 
dielectric layer. For example, the first dielectric layer can be a field oxide formed by conventional 
isolation technologies such as LOCOS or STI. Moreover, the second dielectric layer can be a 
growth oxide formed by thermal oxidation. The first dielectric layer provides an etch protection 
in subsequent processes and the second dielectric layer serves as a thermal contact for the 
substrate in the second region. 
 
In Fig. 3.1 (c), a first thermoelectric material layer is formed on the first and second 
dielectric layers. The former comprises a line portion and two protruding portions in the first and 
second regions, respectively. For example, the protruding portions can be at both ends of the line 
portion, respectively, extending along a direction substantially perpendicular to the line portion, 
such that the first thermoelectric material layer has a U-shaped profile.  Next, in Fig. 3.1 (d), a U-
shaped second thermoelectric material layer comprising a line portion and two protruding 
portions is formed overlying the first thermoelectric material layer and insulated by a dielectric 
layer, in which the line portion overlaps that of the first thermoelectric material layer and the 
protruding portions on the first and second dielectric layers, respectively, extend along a direction 
opposite to that of the protruding portions and substantially aligned therewith. The first and 
second thermoelectric material layers can be n-type and p-type polysilicon, respectively. 
Additionally, the first and second thermoelectric material layers may comprise amorphous, 
polycrystalline Si or SiGe.  Similarly Fig. 3.1 (e)/(f) and Fig. 3.1 (g)/(h) are the third/fourth and 
fifth/sixth thermoelectric material layers, respectively.  
 
Figure 3.2 illustrates the steps of forming first and second interconnected structures 
overlying the substrate of the first and second regions, respectively, to electrically connect the 
stack structure. In Fig. 3.2 (a) and (b), the first metal layer serving as interconnection is formed 
by, for example, a damascene process, to electrically connect the protruding portions through the 
underlying conductive plugs. The first metal layer and the plugs are formed in a first IMD layer, 
which connects the first, second and third thermoelectric couples in series. Moreover, the metal 
interconnection also electrically connects that of the adjacent thermoelectric stacks or 
input/output terminals. Next, in Fig. 3.2 (c) and (d), the second metal layer serving as etching 
mask is formed to block etchants from the composite structures covered underneath in the 
 21
based on the power requirement.   By using the stacked structure, the packing density of the 
thermocouples is increased and hence the output power and voltage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      (a)                                                                          (b) 
Figure 3.3   Thermal isolation process: (a) vertical thermal isolation and (b) bottom cavity 
thermal isolation. 
(2) CMOS Implementation of the Stacked µTEG 
 
TSMC 0.35 μm CMOS process for general mix-signal IC applications with two poly-silicon 
layers and four metal layers (2P4M) is employed for the two layers demonstration of ML-µTEG 
in this work.   Fig. 3.4 consists of poly-silicon (POLY1-2), aluminum (M1-4), inter-metal oxide 
(IMD1-4), gate oxide (GOX), field oxide (FOX), capacitor oxide (COX), metal contact (CO), 
metal via (VIA1-3), and single crystallized silicon substrate. Figure 3.5 shows ML-µTEG in 2000 
× 2000 μm, of which the patterned poly-silicon layers serves as the thermolegs of thermocouples 
are interconnected with aluminum pad to form cold junctions on gate oxide layer in active 
regions and hot junctions on field oxide layer and cavities in isolative regions.  The top aluminum 
layer serves as the mask in post-processing, protecting thermoelectric structures beneath from 
vertical silicon dioxide etching, then creating the thermal isolation cavities by isotropic silicon 
substrate etching.  
Table 3.3    Layer plan of ML-µTEG. 
 
Layer Description 
GOX Electrical isolation at cold junctions 
FOX Etching protection of thermolegs 
POLY1 P-thermolegs 
COX Electrical isolation between P- and N-thermolegs 
POLY2 N-thermolegs 
M2-M4 Thermal conductors at hot junctions 
M3, M4 Etching masks of post-processes 
CO, VIA Interconnection of layers 
 
 
 
 23
1. CMOS chip 2. ICP SiO2 etching 3. RIE Si etching 
a
cb
d
e
f
g
Organization of ML-µTEG associated with process layers is shown in Table 3.3. GOX 
layer serves as electrical isolation at cold junctions to prevent short circuit of thermocouples, and 
FOX as protection of thermolegs during isotropic silicon etching. POLY1 layer serves as the P-
thermolegs, COX layer as electrical isolation between P- and N-thermolegs, and POLY2 layer as 
N-thermolegs. M1 layer serves as interconnections of thermolegs, M2, M3, and M4 layers as 
thermal conductors at hot junctions while M3 and M4 layers also as etching masks during post-
processes, and CO and VIA1-3 as interconnections.  Test structures are located around the 
perimeter for measuring thermoelectric properties, the Seebeck coefficient and thermal 
conductivity.   Pads for electrical connection are fabricated by patterning top metal M4 into 
squares of 100 × 100 μm with 10 μm trenches around, and M3 serves as the etching protection 
for the structure beneath. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a: Width of etching hole (4 μm)  b: Depth of RIE silicon etching (10 μm) 
c: Undercut of RIE silicon etching (5 μm) d: Depth of ICP SiO2 etching (5μm)  
e: Thickness of top metal mask (1 μm) f: Thickness of p-poly Si (275 nm) 
g: Thickness of n-poly Si (180 nm) 
 
NDL SiO2 etch <Oxford Plasmalab System 100> 
Mask 
Time 
 
(min) 
RF 
Power 
(W) 
ICP 
Power 
(W) 
APC 
Pressure
(mtorr)
Cryo 
Temp.
(°C) 
O2 
 
(sccm)
C4F8 
 
(sccm)
He 
 
(sccm) 
DC 
Bias 
(V) 
Top Al ~40 80 2500 5 5 10 30 15 ~140 
 
NDL Silicon etch <STS MODEL C001-4> 
Mask 
Time 
 
(min) 
High 
Power 
(W) 
Low 
Power 
(W) 
APC 
Pressure
(mtorr)
Temp.
 
(°C) 
O2 
 
(sccm)
SF6 
 
(sccm)
He 
 
(sccm) 
DC 
Bias 
(V) 
Al/SiO2 ~40 200 0 100 -- 0 80 -- -- 
 
 Figure 3.6   Post-processing steps and etching recipes. 
 
 25
Quantum well Quantum wire Quantum dotBulk
4. Development of Quantum Well Micro Thermoelectric Generator 
 
(1) Quantum Well (QW-µTEG) 
 
This work also focuses on the development of novel CMOS quantum well micro 
thermoelectric generator (QW-µTEG) to improve output power by better thermoelectric material 
properties.   Although many efforts have been made for the materials and devices based on low-
dimensional thermoelectrics, their integration with the state-of-the-art semiconductor process for 
batch manufacturing has not been explored as yet.  Integration of low-dimension thermoelectrics 
with CMOS process, the quantum well structures are the most promising candidate to realize 
µTEG for SoC applications  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a)                                                                           (b) 
 
Figure 4.1   (a) Low dimension materials and corresponding spectrum of density of state against 
energy, and (b) electron and phonon in low dimension material, where phonon is vulnerable to 
scattering at interfaces. 
 
Thermoelectric materials in low dimension forms, such as quantum well (2D), quantum 
wire (1D), and quantum dot (0D) with feature size < 100 nm, can have the potential to increase 
significantly the figure-of-merit ZT  by quantum confinement effect and interface effect.  For 
quantum wells, the structure confines electrons to move in 2 dimensions, changing the energy 
band structure and electronic density of states (DOS) as shown in Fig. 4.1 (a).   Electron motion 
perpendicular to the potential barrier is quantized thus creating sharp features in the electronic 
DOS.  The quantum confinement of electrons eliminates some states that electrons can occupy, 
since they do not obey the boundary conditions for electronic wave function.  Thus, the number 
of available states associated with any given energy is either reduced or unchanged.  The main 
benefit is that the quantum confinement changes the energy of the band edge of the 
semiconductor, and some sharp features in DOS are created near this band edge.  One can use 
these sharp features to increase the asymmetry between hot and cold electron transport and thus 
obtaining large average transport energy and number of carriers, which accounts for large 
Seebeck coefficient and large electrical conductivity, respectively.  Moreover, the thermal 
Conductor
InsulatorElectron Phonon
 27
2
e ph
S TZT
k k
 
Thermoelectric materials interconvert thermal gradients and electric fields for power 
generation or for refrigeration.  Thermoelectrics currently find only niche applications because of 
their limited efficiency, which is measured by the dimensionless parameter ZT—a function of the 
Seebeck coefficient or thermoelectric power, and of the electrical and thermal conductivities. 
Maximizing ZT is challenging because optimizing one physical parameter often adversely affects 
another.  Over the past five decades it has been challenging to increase ZT > 1. While 
nanostructured thermoelectric materials can increase ZT > 1, the materials (Bi, Te, Pb, Sb, and 
Ag) and processes are not often easy to scale to practically useful dimensions.  This work 
proposes CVD growth of large-area, wafer-scale arrays of Si nanowires of 20–300 nm in 
diameter to have 100-fold reduction in thermal conductivity. Although bulk Si is a poor 
thermoelectric material, by greatly reducing thermal conductivity without much affecting the 
Seebeck coefficient and electrical resistivity, Si nanowire arrays has be shown promising as high-
performance, scalable thermoelectric materials.  The model for calculating thermoelectric 
properties is based on the work by Hicks and Dresselhaus (1993) using relaxation time 
approximation.  The figure of merit ZT  defined by 
 (4.1) 
 
where ek  is the electronic thermal conductivity and phk  is the phonon thermal conductivity.  In 
2D quantum well the electrons are confined to move within the narrow boundaries.  The free-
electron-like motion in the x-y plane and a bound state in the z direction becomes a quantum well 
with the film thickness as the characteristic length.  Different from 3D, quantum well provides 
another degree of freedom to change reduced chemical potential and thus Fermi-Dirac functions 
and thermoelectric properties by changing characteristic lengths of low-dimensional materials.  In 
the case of 1D materials such as quantum wire with square cross section of side length a , carriers 
perform free-electron-like motion in the x direction and a bound state (for infinite potential 
barriers) in the y and z directions.  
 
SiGe as illustrated in Fig. 4.2 is known as a good thermoelectric material, and Si0.9Ge0.1 
used in HBT base is selected for simulation by using the parameters in Table 4.1 to analyze the 
effects of the characteristic length on ZT for 1D and 2D low dimensional materials,  It is expected 
that the increase of electron conductivity and Seebeck coefficient results from the quantum 
confinement and the drop in thermal conductivity from the confinement of acoustic phonons.   
For state-of-the-art SiGe HBT, the ultra-thin SiGe base is uniformly grown by UHV-CVD 
epitaxy technique, with heavily doping up to 1018-1020 cm-3, and the base thickness from 20 to 
100 nm has been used, which forms the desirable SiGe quantum well structure with an expected 
higher ZT.  As CMOS μTEG by low dimension thermoelectrics has not been addressed so far, 
this work has conducted the design and implementation of QW-μTEG by exploiting the SiGe 
HBT structure in BiCMOS process.  
 
 
 29
Poly1 280 nm
FOX 290 nm
GOX 11 nm
Si Substrate 650 μm
M4 9250A
M2 665 nm
M1 665 nm
IMD1 1100 nm
IMD3 1665 nm
IMD2 1665 nm
VIA
VIA
CO
M3 3050 nm
Collector
QW SiGe Base Emitter
CMOSHBT
Hot 
junction
Cold 
junction
P-type QW
SiGe
N-type
Poly1
Cold 
junction
gL
gW n
t
A
A’
B B’
AA’
BB’
hA
cA
cd pt
Table 4.2    Layer plan of QW-µTEG. 
 
Layer Description 
GOX Electrical isolation at cold junctions 
FOX Etching protection of thermolegs 
GPOLY N-type thermolegs 
EPOLY Connection of base and metal 
BPOLY P-type thermolegs 
M1-M3 Thermal conductors at hot junctions 
M2, M3 Etching masks of post-processes 
CO, VIA Interconnection of layers 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.3   Cross section of TSMC 0.35 µm SiGe HBT BiCMOS foundry process. 
 
 
 
 
 
    (b) (c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                         (a)                                                         (b)                                  (c) 
Figure 4.4   (a) The perspective diagram, (b) the top view, and (c) the cross section of QW- 
µTEG.  The dashed line rectangular in (b) denotes a thermocouple cell. 
 
 31
In addition to energy harvester, the same design concept is also applicable to thermoelectric 
cooler.  Thermoelectric devices can be divided into two types: the first type is referred to as the 
thermoelectric generator, and the second one is the thermoelectric cooler. In operation as a 
thermoelectric generator, the input heat from an external thermal reservoir is converted so as to 
cause the flow of the electric current in the TE device. Based on technology originally developed 
by the 3M Corporation for the Apollo space program, the thermoelectric generators have been 
commonly applied for economic and reliable remote power generation for space vehicles.  On 
the other hand, thermoelectric cooler is a solid-state device used to maintain temperature stability, 
temperature cycling, or sufficient cooling for electronic units operated at a temperature lower 
than the ambient temperature.  Thermoelectric cooler features the advantages of quietness, size 
efficiency, and contamination free; therefore, this promising device has gradually gained more 
attention from the researchers. Currently, the applications of thermoelectric coolers may already 
be encountered in CCD cameras, laser diodes, microprocessors, blood analyzers, and portable 
picnic coolers, etc.  Moreover, in recent years the thermoelectric cooler is regarded as one of the 
important issues in the energy-saving technology.   
 33
Table 5.1  Comparison of CMOS-compatible µTEGs reported in the literature and this work. 
 
 CMOS 
integrated? 
TE 
Materials 
Power factor p  
(µW/cm2 K2) 
Voltage factor u
(V/cm2K) 
KUNDO 
(Glosch et al., 1999) 
No Al/Si 0.091 — 
Infineon 
(Strasser et al., 2004) 
Yes 
(Modified) 
Poly-Si 0.0426 2.6 
Poly-SiGe 0.0352 2.2 
IMEC 
(Wang et al., 2007) 
No Poly-SiGe 0.00510 
 
0.013 (Natural) 
0.053 (Forced) 
IMTEK 
(Kockmann et al., 2007) 
No Al/poly-Si 0.00137 0.746 
BiTe — 2.38 
ML-µTEG/QW-µTEG  
(This work) 
Yes Poly-Si 
Poly-SiGe 
 (5x or more)  (5x or more) 
 
 (2) The Impacts 
 
        At the advent of globalization and fossil energy depletion, a challenge facing Taiwan 
is how economic development can be continued in the post IC and LCD era.  This proposal 
aims at launching the energy harvester sector in Taiwan by developing a CMOS 
thermoelectric generator (µTEG), ready to be incorporated in SoC for applications such as 
wireless sensor network (WSN).  Effective germination of an industry shall NOT start from 
ground zero; this is precisely why this proposal shall base on Taiwan’s world leading IC 
foundry process.   The µTEG design can be transferred easily to foster SoC industry that 
shall have a significant and lasting impact on Taiwan’s economic growth.   The new µTEG 
design may provide an efficient and effective platform that paves the way for revolutionary 
WSN applications.   
 
This work presents the design and implementation of novel thermal harvesting by 
micro thermoelectric generator (μTEG).  The μTEG performance has been significantly 
improved in this work by optimal design on the geometry, novel configuration, and 
material enhancements. Demonstrations of multi-layered micro thermoelectric generator 
(ML-μTEG) and quantum-well micro thermoelectric generator (QW-μTEG) have been 
implemented by CMOS process and embedded in SoC.   Three scientific papers have been 
published: 
 
S. M. Yang, T. Lee, and C. A. Jeng, 2009, “Development of a Thermoelectric Energy 
Harvester with Thermal Isolation Cavity by Standard CMOS Process,” Sensors and 
Actuators: A. Physical, vol. 153, n.2, pp. 244-250. (SCI /EI) doi:10.1016/j.sna.2009.05.018 
 35
Enz, C. C., El-Hoiydi, A., Decotignie, J.-D., and Peiris, V., “WiseNET: An Ultralow-
power Wireless Sensor Network Solution,” IEEE Computer, Vol. 37, No. 8, pp. 62−70, 2004. 
Fleurial, J. P., Snyder, G. J., Herman, J. A., Giauque, P. H., Phillips, W. M., Ryan, M. A., 
Shakkottai, P., Kolawa, E. A., and Nicolet, M. A., “Thick-film Thermoelectric Microdevices,”  
Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Thermoelectrics, pp. 294–300, 1999. 
Ghosh, S. and Bayoumi, M., “On Integrated CMOS-MEMS System-on-Chip,” Inst. of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers Paper, IEEE-NEWCAS Conference, pp. 31–34, 2005. 
Glosch, H., Ashauer, M., Pfeiffer, U., and Lang, W., “A Thermoelectric Converter for 
Energy Supply,” Sensors and Actuators A, Vol. 74, pp. 246–250, 1999. 
Graf, A., Arndt, M., Sauer, M., and Gerlach, G., “Review of Micromachined Thermopiles 
for Infrared Detection,” Meas. Sci. Technol., Vol. 18, pp. R59–R75, 2007. 
Gutierrez, J. A., Naeve, M., Callaway, E., Bourgeois, M., Mitter, V., and Heile, B., “IEEE 
802.15.4: A Developing Standard for Low-Power Low-Cost Wireless Personal Area Networks,” 
IEEE Network, Vol. 15, pp. 12–19, 2001. 
Harman, T. C., Taylor, P. J., Walsh, M. P., and LaForge, B. E., “Quantum Dot 
Superlattice Thermoelectric Materials and Devices,” Science, Vol. 297, pp. 2229–2232, 2002. 
Heinzelman, W. B., Murphy, A. L., Carvalho, H. S., Perillo, M. A., “Middleware to 
Support Sensor Network Applications,” IEEE Network, Vol. 18, pp. 6–14, 2004. 
Hicks, L. D. and Dresselhaus, M. S., “Effect of Quantum-well Structures on the 
Thermoelectric Figure of Merit,” Phys. Rev. B, Condens. Matter, Vol. 47, No. 19, pp. 12727–
12731, 1993. 
Hicks, L. D., Harman, T. C., Sun, X., and Dresselhaus, M. S., “Experimental Study of the 
Effect of Quantum-well Structures on the Thermoelectric Figure of Merit,” Phys. Rev. B, 
Condens. Matter, Vol. 53, No. 16, pp. R10493–R104936, 1996. 
Hsu, K. F., Loo, S., Guo, F., Chen, W., Dyck, J. S., Uher, C., Hogan, T., Polychroniadis, 
E. K., and Kanatzidis, M. G., “Cubic AgPb/SbTe2: Bulk Thermoelectric Materials with High 
Figure of Merit,” Science, Vol. 303, No. 5659, pp. 818–821, 2004. 
Kishi, M., Nemoto, H., Hamao, T., Yamamoto, M., Sudou, S., Mandai, M., and 
Yamamoto, S., “Micro-thermoelectric Modules and Their Application to Wristwatches as an 
Energy Source,” Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on Thermoelectrics, pp. 301–
307, 1999. 
Khitun, A., Balandin, A., and Wang, K. L., “Modification of the Lattice Thermal 
Conductivity in Silicon Quantum Wires due to Spatial Confinement of Acoustic Phonons,” 
Superlattices Microstruct., Vol. 26, pp. 181–193, 1999. 
Khitun, A., Balandin, A., Wang, K .L., and Chen, G., “Enhancement of the 
Thermoelectric Figure of Merit of Si1−xGex Quantum Wires due to Spatial Confinement of 
Acoustic Phonons,” Physica E, Vol. 8, pp. 13–18, 2000. 
Kockmann, N., Huesgen, T., and Woias, P., “Microstructured In-plane Thermoelectric 
Generators with Optimized Heat Path,” Tranceducers & Eurosensors ’07, pp. 133-136, 2007. 
Leonov, V., Fiorini, P., Sedky, S., Torfs, T., and Van Hoof, C., “Thermoelectric MEMS 
Generator as a Power Supply for a Body Area Network,” Transducers ’05, pp.291–294, 2005. 
 37
Sterken, T., Baert, K., Puers, R., and Borghs, S., “Power Extraction from Ambient 
Vibration,” Proceedings of Semiconductor Sensors, pp. 680–683, 2002. 
Tummala, R. R., “SOP: What Is It and Why?” IEEE Trans. Advanced Packaging, Vol. 27, 
No. 2, pp. 241−249, 2004. 
Venkatasubramanian, R., Siivola, E., Colpitts, T., and O’Quinn, B., “Thin-film 
Thermoelectric Devices with High Room-temperature Figures of Merit,” Nature, Vol. 413, pp. 
597–602, 2001. 
Völklein, F., Min, G., and Rowe, D. M., “Modeling of a Microelectromechanical 
Thermoelectric Cooler,” Sensors and Actuators A, Vol. 75, pp. 95–101, 1999. 
Von der Mark, S., Huber M., and Boeck, G., “Design Concepts and First Implementations 
for 24 GHz Wireless Sensor Nodes,” Journal of Communications, Vol. 2, No. 6,  pp.1–5, 2007. 
Wang, Z., Leonov, V., Fiorini, P., and Van Hoof, C., “Micromachined Thermocouples for 
Energy Scavenging on Human Body,” Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on 
Solid-State Sensors, Actuators and Microsystems, pp. 911–914, 2007. 
White, B. E., “Energy-Harvesting Devices: Beyond the Battery,” Nature Nanotechnology, 
Vol. 3, pp. 71–72, 2008. 
Wijngaards, D. D. L., Kong, S. H., Bartek, M., and Wolffenbuttel, R. F., “Design and 
Fabrication of On-chip Integrated Poly-SiGe and Poly-Si Peltier Devices,” Sensors and Actuators 
A, Vol. 85,  pp. 316–323, 2000. 
Wijngaards, D. D. L., de Graaf, G., and Wolffenbuttel, R. F., “Single-chip Micro-
thermostat Applying Both Active Heating and Active Cooling,” Sensors and Actuators A, Vol. 
110, pp. 187–195, 2004. 
Zou, J. and Balandin, A., “Phonon Heat Conduction in a Semiconductor Nanowire,” J. 
Appl. Phys., Vol. 89, No. 5, pp. 2932–2938, 2001. 
maintain temperature gradient, and improve output power is validated by TSMC 
0.35μm 2P4M (2-poly and 4-metal) CMOS process.  The harvester composed of 60 x 
4 μm thermocouples can deliver the power factor 0.0417 µW/cm2K2 and voltage factor 
2.417 V/cm2K.   Powered by these harvesters, a rectangular microstrip antenna is also 
embedded in composite laminated substrates.  The electromagnetic performance is 
superior to that when attached on an isotropic substrate.  The concept of an indigenous 
smart structure system with sensing, actuation, control, RF communication and power 
supply capabilities is feasible.   The paper has been published in 
S. M. Yang, T. Lee, and M. Cong, 2010,  “Design and Verification of a Thermoelectric 
Energy Harvester with Stacked Polysilicon Thermocouples by CMOS Process,” Sensors 
and Actuators: A, Physical, vol. 157, pp. 258-266. (SCI/EI). 
 
會議與訪問過程 
The Fifth Global Chinese Aeronautical Technology Conference was a global forum on 
aerospace engineering and civil aviation technology. It aimed to promote global and 
cross-strait economic activities in the aviation industry and collaboration between 
fundamental researchers in related areas.  Topics addressed at GCATC-2011 included: 
Aircraft Design and Manufacturing, New Materials and Application in Aviation 
Industry, Application of New Energy in the Aeronautical Field, Aviation Industry and 
Economy, Global Cooperation in Aviation Technology, and Fundamental Researches in 
Aviation Science. 
The conference was initiated in 2000 on Macau.   Since then it is held every 
other year or the third year rotating in Taiwan, USA, and China.  The attendees are 
Chinese origin working in the area of aerospace science and technology.   There are 
about 100 attending GCATC-2011.  Taiwan delegation is led by the Prof. Dai, the 
President of the Chinese Aeronautical and Astronautical Society in Taiwan.  I 
represented one of the faculties of the National Cheng Kung University in presenting 
the topic about green aviation: Development of an Indigenous Smart Structure System with 
Sensor/Actuator, Energy Harvester and Microstrip Antenna.  The conference selected only 
about 24 papers for oral presentation, and the only one single session has facilitated many 
fruitful discussions among the attendees. 
The conference concluded by a technical tour of the Shanghai Commercial 
Aviation Company to visit the C919 regional jet under development.  The capital and 
manpower of the Chinese aviation signal the ambition of the China government in boosting 
its aircraft manufacture industry.   This is an area that we in Taiwan should carefully 
ponder in complementing and competing with the Asian giant. 
  
與會行程 
8/8  Arriving at Shanghai, China.  Registering at the conference. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/11/14
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以多層堆疊結構與量子井提昇熱電能源採集器性能之研究
計畫主持人: 楊世銘
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-006-117-MY3 學門領域: 航太科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
invited to seminar at University of Souther California,  Wayne State 
University at Michigan. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
