1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫   ■成果報告            
顆粒形狀對乾燥顆粒混合物分層效應影響之研究與應用（1/2） 
(On grain-shape induced particle segregation in dry 
granular mixtures under vertical shaking (1/2))	  
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC	  99	  –	  2628	  –	  E	  -­‐	  006	  –	  016	  -­‐ 
執行期間： 99 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：方中  副教授 
計畫參與人員：林永鎔(博士班兼任研究助理) 
              李達銘、許配慈 (碩士班兼任研究助理) 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
■已發表國際期刊論文二份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列
管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立成功大學土木工程學系 
 
中   華   民   國  100  年  06  月  24  日 
 
3 
 
英文摘要 
Key	  words：granular mixture, particle segregation, grain-shape difference	  
	  
	   	   	   	   Particle segregation induced by grain-shape difference in dry granular mixtures is 
systematically investigated by using numerical simulations and experimental studies. In particular, 
specific 1-D and 2-D shaking experiments (i.e., simple harmonic oscillation experiments) of 
granular mixtures consisting of particles with different shapes are conducted to visualize 
qualitatively and quantitatively the segregation phenomena. By comparing the experimental 
outcomes with the numerical simulations obtained by using the proposed quasi-DEM method, with 
which polygonal particles can efficiently be accomplished in the simulation package of EDEM, a 
certain critical factors which influence the phenomena of particle shape segregation can be 
identified.	  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
 (a) 
 (c) 
 
(b) 
Figure 1. Particle segregation in different 
occasions. (a) Volcanic deposit (from 
Hutter), (b) debris deposit in Taiwan 
(from 財團法人地工技術研究發展基
金會), (c) particle size segregation in 
laboratory (from Prof. Breu). 
 
⎯ difference in particle size, 
⎯ difference in particle shape, and 
⎯ difference in particle density, 
⎯ difference in particle resilience, 
which was first summarized by Williams (1976). Naturally, not all these four factors are equally 
important, and the most important one is the size difference between different sorts of particles. 
Many efforts, including theories, mathematical models and experiments have been conducted to 
clarify the critical factors that govern this phenomenon. Although the strong dependency of the 
results on the external driving excitations makes it difficult to mark some obvious and general 
conclusions, a short but comprehensive summary is given in the following. 
 
Vertical Shaking. A certain amount of solid spherical particles with the same properties but two 
different diameters are placed in a 2D/3D container, which is set in simple harmonic motion 
vertically. It is found that larger particles move gradually upward toward the free surface, while the 
smaller particles move downward toward the bottom of the container (see e.g. Williams 1987, 
Duran et al. 1994 and Liffman et al. 2001 ). Numerical simulations using Monte Carlo method or 
DEM have been extensively accomplished and the results show good agreements with experimental 
observations. In fact, the separation/segregation speed depends significantly on the non-dimensional 
parameter Γ, which is a measure of the relative significance of the inertial force induced by the 
driving external excitations and the gravity force. Depending upon the values of Γ, particle size 
7 
 
larger but lighter particles move toward the boundary of the disk, whilst smaller but heavier 
particles are in the center of the disk (BNE effect). Such a phenomenon was first investigated 
theoretically by use of the thermodynamics in Asakura & Oosawa’s paper in 1954. Recently, 
Aumaître et al. (2003) used the model of order parameter to study the phenomenon of crystallization, 
and extended their model to investigate the particle segregations induced by size and density 
differences in swirling motion. 
 
Rotating drum experiments. A rotating drum consists of two parallel circular disks with a specific 
gap filled with granular mixtures. It is a convenient experimental device to illustrate different flow 
regimes of granular materials. Depending upon the rotating speed of the drum, different flow 
regimes from avalanche, continuous flow to rigid body motion can be visualized (see e.g. Dury et al. 
1998, Duran 2000, Ristow 1998 and Gray & Hutter 1997). It is found that within the proper rotation 
speeds the radial particle shape segregation appears: larger particles tend to move toward the 
boundary of the drum, whilst smaller particles gather themselves in the core region. In comparison 
with the experiments mentioned above, the segregation speed in this kind of experiments is rather 
fast: almost after one evolution of the drum the segregation starts to be visible (Clément et al. 1995 
and Cantelaube & Bideau 1995). Numerical simulations using DEM method have also been carried 
out and the results show good agreements with the experimental outcomes (Dury & Ristow 1997). 
 
On the other hand, when the granular mixture consists of the particles with the same size but 
different densities, heavier particles tends to gather themselves near the center of the drum, whilst 
the lighter particles move toward the boundary of the drum. The segregation speed and quality are 
more efficient than those induced by the size difference, and increase as the density ratio increases 
(see e.g. Ristow 1994). In view of the results from the numerical simulations and experimental 
observations it is concluded that in the rotating drums smaller and denser particles segregate 
inwards, whilst larger and lighter particles outwards (Eggert & Wu 2000). 
 
Axial segregation. A 3D elongated rotating drum is realized by increasing the dimension of 2D 
rotating drum along its axial direction. Particle segregations appearing in this device was first 
reported by Oyama in 1939. The 3D drum is filled with a binary dry granular mixture consisting of 
the particles with two different diameters till the middle. Initially all particles are distributed  ㄧ
niformly. The 3D drum starts to rotate along its axial direction. It is found that smaller and larger 
particles tend to gather themselves into a serial of interlaced disks which are orthogonal to the axial 
axis. However, the formation of such a pattern and the number of the interlaced disks depend on the 
rotation speed and duration (Hill & Kakalios 1994 and Hill et al. 1997). Several models such as 
those proposed by de Gennes & Savage (1995), Choo et al. (1997) and Aranson & Tsimring (the 
latter two models are based on the theory of traveling wave) have been proposed for this 
phenomenon; however, its fundamental physical mechanisms are yet clear. The information of the 
segregation due to the density difference, including numerical simulations and experiments, is still 
missing. 
9 
 
(二) 研究方法及文獻回顧 
 
As discussed before, particle segregations induced by the size and density differences have 
been extensively studied due to their importance and practical applications in industry. However, 
from the view point of practical application, there remain also the segregation problems due to the 
shape difference (see e.g. Duran 2000), whose physical mechanism is yet clear. The underlying 
reasons, as to our knowledge, may be (i) segregation problems due to size and density differences 
are relatively obvious, for which the experiments and numerical simulations are easily conducted 
and performed, (ii) almost all numerical schemes for granular matters, including MD and DEM, are 
capable of handling spherical or elliptic particles, but cannot deal with particles with arbitrary 
shape.  
 
Recently, from the idea of operation research, Prof. Lee and I have proposed a fast and 
powerful numerical scheme which can easily generate particles with arbitrary shapes in the 
simulations. This opens a new area in the computational granular dynamics and puts us now in an 
available position to investigate the particle segregations induced by grain-shape difference in a 
systematic manner (see Sect. 12.1 for details). This is – broadly speaking – the goal of the proposal: 
to study experimentally and numerically the particle segregations induced by particle- shape 
difference in dry granular mixtures. 
 
Since it is not possible to study the particle shape segregations for arbitrary particle shapes, 
judicious criteria have to be used to illuminate the most fundamental and critical factors affecting 
the phenomenon. Specially, we should consider dry granular mixtures consisting of two different 
sorts of particles: spherical particles and polygons with the same volume under vertical shaking 
condition, for the results of such driving excitation may more easily be isolated, and try to clarify 
the following issues:   
 
(1) Does particle shape segregation occur? If so, is there any relation between the number of 
the side of the polygons and the segregation speed? What are the differences between the 
particle size/density-induced segregations and the shape-induced segregations? 
(2) Is it possible to find out some quantitative measures which can index the influences of the 
shape-difference in particle segregations? 
(3) Do BNE and RBNE effects occur when the particle shapes are different? If so, which one 
is relatively significant? 
(4) Is it possible to find a way/device to reduce/eliminate the particle shape segregations in an 
industrial mixer?  
 
Numerical simulations and experimental investigations will be accomplished to attack this problem. 
 
11 
 
 
Figu 
 
the simple harmonic motions with the prescribed amplitude and frequency, as shown in Fig. 2b. A 
high-speed CCD camera is used to capture the instantaneous flow pattern of the grains (see Fig. 
2c).1 Through the image-processing procedure a certain quantitative indices like the segregation 
speed, the speed of the intruder can be calculated. These data should be compared with numerical 
results. The experimental study follows essentially the setup used in numerical simulations. 
 
Working program: 
In concreto, the following steps of analysis are proposed: 
 
• Experimental setup and testing. This step is crucial and requires much attention. 
 
• Numerical studies for vertical shaking with free surface 
- Generation of polyhedrons and spherical particles in the numerical scheme 
- Numerical simulations of segregation induced by a single polyhedron intruder 
 
- Numerical simulations of segregation in a dry granular mixture consisting of two kinds of particles 
with different shapes 
- Comparisons with numerical and experimental results 
- Identifications of the important factors affecting particle shape segregations 
 
• Experimental studies for vertical shaking with free surface 
-Experimental observation of segregation induced by a single polyhedron intruder  
-Experimental observation of segregation in a dry granular mixture consisting of two kinds of 
particles with different shapes 
-Image processing procedures to obtain the quantitative descriptions of segregation  
 
• Incorporation of a certain mechanics-consideration into the simulation scheme. This should be 
accomplished to reduce the discrepancies between the numerical and experimental results. After 
this stage we can then extend the study to 3D problems, problems in rotating circumstance and 
problems with/without interstitial fluids. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
1 The high-speed CCD camera has been purchased through the project of the college of engineering at NCKU with the 
resolution of 1280×1024 pixels at 2000 frame/sec.  
13 
 
and condensation, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 3423 (2001). 
Hutter, K. Order and disorder in granular materials: experiment and theory. In: Kinetic and 
Continuum Theories of Granular and Porous media (Hutter, K. and Wilmánski, K., eds.), 
Springer Verlag, Heidelberg, pp. 1-65 (2000) 
Hutter, K., Rajagopal, K.R. On flows of granular materials. Continuum Mech. Thermodyn. 6, pp. 
81-139 (1994) 
Jakob, M., Hungr, O.: Debris-flow Hazards and Related Phenomena. Springer-Verlag  
New York Heidelberg (2005) 
Knight, J.B., Jaeger, H.M., Nagel, S.R. Vibration-induced size separation in granular material:the 
convection connection, Phys. Rev. Lett. 70, 3728 (1993). 
Liffman, K. et al., A segregation mechanism in a vertically shaken bed, Granular Matter 3, 205 
(2001). 
Middleton, G.V., (1970): Experimental studies related to problem of flysh sedimentation. In: Flysh 
Sedimentology in North America (Lajoie, J. ed.), Business and Economics Science Ltd., 
Toronton, pp. 253-272. 
Middleton, G.V.; Hampton, M.A., (1976): Subaqueoes sediment transport and deposition by 
sediment gravity flows. In: Marine Sediment Transport and Environmental Management 
(Stanley, D.J. and Swift, D.J.P. eds.), Wiley, pp. 197-218. 
Naylor, M.A., (1980): The origin of inverse grading in muddy debris flow deposits - A review. J. 
Sedimentary Petrology 50, pp. 1111-1116. 
Oyama, Y.,Bull. Inst. Phys. Chem. Res. Rep. 5, 600 (1939). 
Pudasaini, S.P., Hutter, K.: Avalanche Dynamics. Springer-Verlag New York Heidelberg (2007) 
Rao, K.K., Nott, P.R.: An Introduction to Granular Flow. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge 
(2008) 
Reis, P.M., Mullin, T. Granular segregation as a critical phenomenon, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 244301 
(2002). 
Revuzhenko, A.F.: Mechanics of Granular Media. Springer-Verlag New York Heidelberg (2006) 
Ristow, G. Partical mass segregation in a two-dimensional rotating drum, Europhys. Lett. 28, 97 
(1994). 
Rosato et al., Why the Brazil nuts are on top: size segregation of particulate matter by shaking, 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 58, 1038 (1987). 
Sallenger, A.H., (1979): Inverse grading and hydraulic equivalence in grain-flow deposits. J. 
Sedimentary Petrology, 49, pp. 553-563. 
Schnautz, T., Brito, R., Kruelle, C.A., and I. Rehberg, A horizontal Brazil-nut effect and its reverse, 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 028001 (2005). 
Shinbrot, T., Muzzio, F.J. Reverse buoyancy in shaken granular beds, Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 4365 
(1998). 
Takahashi, T.: Debris Flow: Mechanics, Prediction and Countermeasures. Taylor & Francis, New 
York (2007) 
Wang, Y., Hutter, K. Granular material theories revisited. In: Geomorphological Fluid Mechanics 
15 
 
(三) 結果與討論 
 
 
(Please	  refer	  to	  the	  paper	  listed	  below	  for	  further	  information)	  
17 
 
progress	  in	  the	  following	  two	  years.	   	   	  
	  
	  
PUBLICATIONS	  OF	  THE	  PROJECT:	  
	  
‧ Journal	  Papers	  (one	  in	  press) 
1. Fang,	  C.,	  Lee,	  Y.	  (2012):	  On	  particle	  segregation	  in	  a	  binary	  dry	  granular	  mixture	  of	  spherical	  and	  elliptic	  grains	  under	  vertical	  excitations.	  Granul.	  Matt.	  (in	  press)	  (NSC	  99-­‐2628-­‐E-­‐006-­‐16)	  
	  
	   ‧ 	   CONFERENCE	  PAPERS	  
	   	   	   1.	  Fang,	  C.,	  Chen,	  C.	  (2010):	  On	  the	  effects	  of	  the	  aspect	  ratio	  on	  the	  jamming	  phenomenon	  
	   	   	   	   	   of	  a	  dry	  granular	  matter	  with	  elliptic	  grains	  in	  a	  two-­‐dimensional	  hopper.	  
	   	   	   	   	   In:	  The	  34th	  National	  Conference	  of	  Theoretical	  and	  Applied	  Mechanics	  (34	  STAM),	  
	   	   	   	   	   Yun-­‐Lin,	  Taiwan,	  19-­‐20/11/2010	  (NSC	  99-­‐2628-­‐E-­‐006-­‐016-­‐)	  
	  
‧ ‧ 	   PRESENTATIONS/TALKS	  
	  
1. ”On	  the	  effects	  of	  the	  aspect	  ratio	  on	  the	  jamming	  phenomenon	  of	  a	  dry	   	   	   	  
granular	  matter	  with	  elliptic	  grains	  in	  a	  two-­‐dimensional	  hopper”.	  In:	  The	  34th	  National	  
Conference	  of	  Theoretical	  and	  Applied	  Mechanics	  (34	  STAM),	  Yun-­‐Lin,	  Taiwan,	  19/11/2010	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
2 
 
本次出國日期為自民國 100年 4月 3日至 4月 23日。本次出國之行程如下： 
 
4月 3日: 在台南搭車至桃園機場搭乘長榮航空 BR 87由桃園直飛法國巴黎之班機，於當地時
間 4月 4日 07:45抵達巴黎戴高樂國際機場。 
 
4 月 5 日-4 月 6 日 : 拜訪法國巴黎第六大學 Becke 教授，進行顆粒物質電腦模擬的討論與合
作。 
4 月 7 日 : 前往德國達姆工業大學。 
4 月 8 日-10 日 : 拜訪德國達姆工業大學 Schmidtz 教授，進行流固偶合計算模擬的討論與合
作。 
4 月 11 日 : 前往奧地利維也納。 
4 月 12 日-14 日 : 拜訪奧地利維也納自然科學大學 Wei Wu 教授，進行土石流的實驗模擬討
論與合作。 
4 月 15 日 : 赴匈牙利布達佩斯。 
4 月 16 日 : 拜訪匈牙利科學院 Bolinski 教授。 
4 月 17 日 : 赴奧地利格拉茲市參加會議 
4 月 18 日-21 日 : 會議期間 
4 月 22 日 : 於當地時間晚上 19:35搭乘長榮航空 BR	  62班機由奧地利維也納出發，於 4月 23
日下午 17:05抵達桃園機場，返抵國門。	  
 
在會議中，與會代表就相關領域的研究進展和成果，進行了深入而廣泛的交流。報告內
容廣及結構力學、複合材料力學、損傷力學、土壤力學、生物力學、流體力學、分子動力學，
以及量子氣體動力學等，引起與會代表的極大興趣。本人之論文：On the effects of the aspect 
ratio on the jamming phenomenon of a dry elliptic granular matter in a two-dimensional hopper 
flow，受邀於會議第第三天第一場次發表，與會人士給予了不少指教。特別是法國里昂結構
動力研究中心副研究員 Lorenz 博士與本人於會後進行長時間的討論，並敲定未來可能共同
合作的課題與人員互訪計畫。 
 
會議結束時，與會代表認為本次會議達到了預期目的，不僅在學術上進行了交流，在感
情上也得到了深化，從而為歐洲與世界各地數學與力學學者之間的學術交流與合作提供了新
的瞭解平臺和交流契機。本次會議攜回與會發表之論文集光碟乙份及論文摘要一本。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
  
  綜合此行之心得，除學術專業獲得充電，及結識一些國際同行外，主要還是與本次會議之
研討有關。本次會議，本人對乾燥顆粒物質流變模型比較感興趣；出發點乃從自然災害角度
出發，且最近之研究顯示對地質災害如山崩或土石流之探討已慢慢朝向複雜流體的方向前進。
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/12/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 顆粒形狀對乾燥顆粒混合物於垂直震動下引致之分層效應影響研究與應用
(1/2)
計畫主持人: 方中
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-006-016- 學門領域: 大地工程
無研發成果推廣資料
專任助理 0 0 100%  
期刊論文 1 0 100% 
The influence of 
the aspect ratio 
of elliptical 
grains on the 
segregation of a 
dry binary 
granular mixture 
consisting of 
spherical and 
elliptical 
grains are 
identified. 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
None 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
Fang, C., Lee, Y. (2012): On particle segregation in a binary dry granular mixture 
of spherical and elliptic grains under vertical excitations. Granul. Matt. (in press) 
(NSC 99-2628-E-006-16) 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
Grain-shape (granulometry) induced particle segregation is an interesting subject 
in both its wide applications in industry and in its own weight. Numerical 
simulations based on the DEM technique has been employed to attack this problem, 
in particular the following two specific problems which arise in industry 
applications: (1) The segregation phenomena of a dry binary granular mixture 
consisting of spherical and elliptical grains in a two-dimensional vibrating 
container, and (2) The influences of the aspect ratio of the elliptical grains 
on the jamming process in silo flows. Results are given in the following: 
 
1. When the grains are instead spherical but elliptical, the jamming mechanism 
in silo flows becomes more evident, for more grains may gather themselves near 
the outlet of the silo to construct arches, which are the main causes of the jamming 
process, when the long axes of the grains are aligned to the flow direction. More 
larger the aspect ration is, more jamming probability will be.  
2. When a well-premixed dry binary granular mixture consisting of spherical and 
elliptical grains is set into vertically oscillation, it is found that the 
