報告內容 
 
I. Introduction 
 
In this project period, our researches are focused on quasi-photonic crystal (QPC) microcavity, 
which is regarded as a very potential device for electrically-driven due to its well-confined 
whispering-gallery mode (WGM). In this report, for the first time, we investigate a novel QPC 
lattice named circular photonic crystal (CPC), including its isotropic photonic band gap (PBG) 
effect and high quality (Q) factor WGM in the CPC microcavity. Also, in order to solve the problem 
of WGM rarely-sustaining in most general photonic crystal (PC) microcavities, we propose a novel 
design combining QPC microcavity and PC lattice. In this cavity design, we successfully obtain the 
high-Q WGM lasing action in a PC microcavity. We also investigate and identify the uniform 
cavity-waveguide coupling properties in different propagating directions. Both results are very 
important characteristics in PICs component designing. 
 
II. Circular Photonic Crystals 
 
In most circular resonators with large dimension in advanced communication system, they 
usually exhibit excellent characteristics of low loss, good confinement, high-Q factor, etc. 
Unfortunately, when the size of resonator is reduced for condensed system requirement, the bend 
loss will increase dramatically. To solve this problem, a resonator named annular circular resonator 
(ACR) is proposed. In ACR, the confinement is provided by Bragg reflection of the surrounded 
annular Bragg reflector formed by concentric periodic circular trenches. However, the widely used 
membrane structure and the current injection structure cannot be applied and achieved in ACR due 
to the annular Bragg reflector. One possible solution is replacing the air trenches by the air holes, 
named CPC lattice. In this part, at first, we successfully address the isotropic PBG effect of the CPC 
lattice by three-dimensional (3D) finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method. And then the 
modal characteristics of high-Q WGM in our designed novel CPC C2 microcavity are also 
investigated and identified both in FDTD simulations and experiments. 
 
(I) Isotropic Photonic Band Gap Effect 
 
The scheme of a sunflower type CPC lattice is shown in Fig. 1, and the spatial lattice positions 
on the x-y plane are given by 
)
6
2cos(
N
naNx π=  , )6
2sin(
N
naNy π=  , Nn 6~1=  
where a and N denote the lattice constant and number of lattice periods. To investigate its PBG 
effect, we calculate its transmission spectrum by 3D FDTD method. A dipole source is put on one 
side of the CPC lattice with 500 nm lattice constant (a) and 0.42a air-hole radius (r) formed on a 
(II) Circular Photonic Crystal Microcavity 
 
In past decades, WGM is a very important mode in the applications of quantum information 
process and coupled active devices with logical operation. It also has been widely regarded as the 
best mode candidate in electrically-driven PC microcavity lasers. However, in most PC 
microcavities, WGM is rarely well-sustained in the cavity. Based on above CPC lattice structure, we 
design a novel CPC microcavity with well-sustained WGM by removing seven central air holes, 
named C2 microcavity, as shown in Fig. 3 (a). The modal characteristics of CPC C2 microcavity are 
also performed by 3D FDTD method. The normalized frequencies of calculated WGMs versus r/a 
ratio of CPC C2 microcavity are shown in Fig. 3 (b). The WGM mode profiles are shown in Fig. 3 
(c), including K=5, K=6, and K=7, where K denotes the rotational Bloch number. The highest Q 
factor is obtained from WGM with azimuthal number six by 3D FDTD simulation, as shown in Fig. 
4.  
 
The CPC C2 microcavity is fabricated by our well-developed fabrication process. The top-view 
and tilted-view scanning electron microscope (SEM) pictures of fabricated devices are shown in Fig. 
5 (a). In characterization, the microcavity is optically pumped at room temperature by 845 nm diode 
laser. The light emitted from the microcavity is collected by a fiber and detected by an optical 
spectrum analyzer. The measured lasing actions with different lattice parameters are denoted by 
open circles in Fig. 3 (b) and they clearly indicate the lasing mode is WGM compared with the 
simulated results. The typical light-in light-out (L-L) curve is shown in Fig. 5 (b) and the threshold 
can be estimated as low as 0.13 mW from the curve. The spectra of near and above threshold at 
lasing wavelength 1519.8 nm are also shown in Fig. 5 (b). The measured Q factor is around 11,000 
estimated from measured line-width (ΔFWHM) near the transparency pump level by Q =λ/ΔFWHM. 
Comparing with the lasing characteristics of 12-fold QPC D2 microcavity we reported before, the 
 
 
Fig. 3: (a) Scheme of CPC C2 microcavity. (b) Calculated WGMs in normalized frequency 
with different r/a ratios of CPC C2 microcavity by 3D FDTD simulations. (c) Mode 
profiles of WGMs in magnetic field, including K=5, K=6, and K=7. 
 
mismatched azimuthal lobes will be weaken. As a result, it is possible to sustain a WGM in PC D2 
microcavity by modifying the cavity boundary to be the same with that of 12-fold QPC D2 
microcavity. 
 
(I) Circular-Shaped Microcavity 
 
The scheme of our design is shown in Fig. 6 (a). The PCs are formed by air holes on a thin 
dielectric slab and the original PC D2 microcavity is formed by removing seven air holes. The 
positions of 12 nearest air holes are rearranged to be circular geometry with spacing of one lattice 
constant by moving six of them inward and six of them outward, which is re-named PC circular-D2 
(CD2) microcavity, as shown in Fig. 6 (a). To confirm this design, we apply 3D FDTD method to 
simulate its WGM modal characteristics. The simulated electric- and magnetic-field distributions of 
sustained WGM with azimuthal number six whose lobes match with the gears formed by the 12 
nearest air holes are shown in Fig. 6 (b) and (c). From the mode distribution, one can observe a 
significant zero-distribution region at the center of the microcavity. This indicates that this mode 
can be considered as a good candidate of excited mode for the electrical injection structure by 
inserting a central post without affecting WGM lasing performance. It can also be observed that 
there are very few leaky components in the light cone from the electric-field distribution in the 
wave-vector (k) space by Fourier transformation, as shown in Fig. 6 (d), which implies its high-Q 
factor. We also calculate other resonance modes in PC CD2 microcavity within our designed range 
including K = 1, 3 (first-order WGM) and K = 5, 6, 7 (zero-order WGM). The plot of normalized 
frequency of the resonance modes versus PC r/a ratio is shown in Fig. 7 (a). 
 
 
Fig. 6: (a) Scheme and design of PC CD2 microcavity. The PC patterns are defined on the 
dielectric slab. The 12 nearest air holes of PC CD2 microcavity are shifted inward or 
outward to make the spacing equal to one lattice constant. The 3D FDTD simulated (b) 
electric- and (c) magnetic-field distributions of WGM with azimuthal number six in the x-z 
plane. (d) WGM electric-field distribution in k-space by Fourier transformation. 
 
 
Fig. 9: (a) Typical L-L curve of PC CD2 microcavity laser. The threshold can be estimated 
as 0.24 mW. The upper inset shows the spectrum near threshold and the measured Q-factor 
can be estimated as 7700. The SMSR is also estimated as 18dB from the lower inset. (b) 
Typical lasing spectrum at 1535.7 nm. 
 
between the cavity and the waveguide. High coupling efficiency between high-Q PC L3 
microcavity and PC single-line-defect waveguide has been investigated. However, the coupling 
efficiencies are not uniform in different directions due to the specific resonance direction of the 
mode. This would be an un-neglected problem under some specific designs where multiple output 
ports are needed. Based on above PC CD2 microcavity, we propose our initiative design to solve 
this problem. One can observe the WGM mode profile shown in Fig. 6 (c), instinctively, because 
every lobe of WGM is identical to each other, uniform coupling efficiencies can be obtained 
between the cavity and the inserted PC waveguides along these directions. We first numerically 
study the transmission of waveguide-cavity-waveguide structure in 180° geometry (labeled as A-6 
type) as shown in Fig. 10 (a) by 2D FDTD simulation with approximated index. Typical 
propagating field distribution with significant WGM resonance is shown in Fig. 10 (b). To confirm 
the uniform coupling characteristic in different propagating directions corresponding to each WGM 
lobe, we calculate the transmissions of geometries with the same input A but different output ports 
numbered 1 to 10 as denoted and shown in Fig. 10 (a). The simulated transmissions of different 
geometries A-1 to A-10 after optimization are found to be in the range of 91%~93%, which indicate 
the uniform cavity-waveguide coupling in different propagating directions. We also design coupler 
with one input port A and two output ports 4 and 8 named A-4-8 type under proper choice as shown 
in Fig. 10 (a). Almost the same transmission ~ 42% in each output port is achieved as shown in Fig. 
10 (c). This indicates that PC CD2 microcavity with WGM combined with PC waveguide is very 
suitable in designing PC-based components that need multi-port functions. To investigate this 
uniform coupling property in experiments, we fabricate PC CD2 microcavities with waveguides 
along three different directions. The SEM pictures and lasing spectra near threshold are shown in 
Fig. 10 (d). The measured Q-factors degrade to around 6100 for all three cases. This uniform 
degradation also indicates the uniform coupling behavior in different cavity-waveguide geometries. 
We believe this PC CD2 microcavity would be very potential in designing and realizing PC-based 
active source in planar PICs, photonic molecule, optical interconnector, coupled-resonator optical 
waveguide, and so on. 
 
7. Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, Feng-Mao Tsai, Tien-Chang Lu, and Hao-Chung Kuo, 
“Whispering gallery mode of modified octagonal quasi-periodic photonic crystal single 
defect microcavity and its side mode reduction,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 201104 (2006) (SCI 
IF:4.127) 
 
(II) International Conference Presentations 
 
1. Tsan-Wen Lu, Chung-Chuan Tseng, Chia-Min Yu, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Photonic Crystal 
Circular-Shaped Microcavity Laser with High Quality Factor Whispering-Gallery Mode 
and Uniform Coupling Property,” F2A-4, IEEE WFOPC’07, Taipei, Taiwan (2007) 
2. Tsan-Wen Lu, Jyun-Hao Fan, Feng-Mao Tsai, and Po-Tsung Lee, “High quality factor 
circular photonic crystal microcavity lasers,” TuF4-5, CLEO-PR’07, Soeul, Korea (2007) 
3. Po-Tsung Lee, Tzu-Yueh Chang, and Ssu-Yuan Chen, “Investigation of Electrical Pulse 
Erasing Method Effect on Current-Voltage Characteristics of Organic Bistable Device,” 
Thu-P6-04, IDMC’07, Taipei, Taiwan (2007) 
4. Tzu-Yueh Chang, Ssu-Yuan Chen, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Investigation of Deposition Rate 
Effect on the Current-Voltage Characteristics of Organic Dynamic Random Access 
Bistable Devices,” p.19, SID’07, Long Beach, CA, USA (2007) (SID’07 Student Travel 
Grant Award) 
5. Ssu-Yuan Chen, Tzu-Yueh Chang, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Bistable Characteristics of the 
Organic Device with Heterojunction,” O3.11, MRS’07 Spring Meeting, San Francisco, CA, 
USA (2007) 
6. Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, Feng-Mao Tsai, and Tien-Chang Lu, “Lasing Action of 
Octagonal Quasi-Periodic Photonic Crystal Micro-Cavities,” ThB1.3, IEEE/LEOS 
IPRM’06, Princeton, NJ, USA (2006) 
7. Tsan-Wen Lu, Feng-Mao Tsai, Po-Tsung Lee, and Tien-Chang Lu, “Modified Octagonal 
Quasi-Periodic Photonic Crystal Single-Defect Micro-Cavity Lasers,” JWB11, 
CLEO/QELS’06, Long Beach, CA, USA (2006) 
8. Feng-Mao Tsai, Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Tien-Chang Lu, “Fabrication and 
Characteristics of Two-Dimensional Quasi-Periodic Photonic Crystal Lasers,” CMKK6, 
CLEO/QELS’06, Long Beach, CA, USA (2006) 
 
(III) Domestic Conference Presentations 
 
1. Chun-Jung Shih, Jia-Ho Chen, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Modal Analysis of 
Double Hetero-Structure Photonic Crystal Waveguide-Resonator for In-Plane Emission,” 
OPT’07, Taichung, Taiwan (2007) (Submitted) 
2. Yi-Yu Tsai, Chung-Chuan Tseng, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Po-Tsung Lee, “12-Fold 
Quasi-Photonic Crystal Microcavity with Central Post,” OPT’07, Taichung, Taiwan (2007) 
