行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
總計畫：新世代行動寬頻接取網路技術之研究 
子計畫二：新世代行動寬頻異質接取網路移動管理技術之研究 (II) 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-008-030 
國立中央大學 通訊工程學系  
計畫主持人： 陳彥文 
(The research result has been published in 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Pervasive 
Computing and Ad Hoc Communications (PCAC-07), pp. 130-135, May, 2007.) 
ABSTRACT 
In order to provide seamless handoff for QoS 
connections in 802.16-2004/WLAN environment, a cross 
layer design approach is proposed to manage the 
bandwidth requirement of mobile node during movement. 
The main concept of the dynamic bandwidth 
management proposed in this paper is to treat the layer 2 
connection of 802.16 as a pipe that aggregates multiple 
layer 3 RSVP connections with the same class of service. 
As the layer 3 connections are integrated into a pipe, 
bandwidth can be managed in a more statistical way. 
The control procedure of RSVP connection is designed in 
accordance with the signaling procedure of 802.16. In 
order to manage the bandwidth effectively, the admitted 
Bandwidth Utilization Portion (ABUP) is defined as a 
threshold of the layer 2 pipe to determine whether the 
reserved bandwidth is enough or not. This threshold also 
plays an important role for the acceptance of handoff 
connection and new connection. The performance of the 
proposed scheme is examined through exhaustive 
simulations. Our results show that our scheme 
demonstrates a quite good performance in managing 
resources for RSVP connections in 802.16/WLAN 
environment. 
Key words: Handoff, RSVP, Mobility, 802.16, WLAN 
 
1. Introduction 
 
The development of wireless technology has 
successfully integrate the services of telecommunication 
and data communication and this trend enables the rapid 
deployment of various kinds of network applications 
Traditionally, global system for mobile communications 
(GSM) is the most popular standard for mobile phones in 
the world while the wireless local area network (WLAN) 
is widely deployed in hotspots for internet access. And 
the third generation (3G) technology is going to be 
mature and is promoting to offer data and multimedia 
services. Wideband code division multiple access 
(WCDMA), which is the technology adopted in 3G, is a 
wideband digital radio communications technology. This 
technology provides new service capabilities, increases 
network capacity and reduces cost for voice and data 
transmission when comparing to the existing GSM 
systems. However, as mobile internet and voice over IP 
(VoIP) services grow rapidly, demand of beyond 3G 
(B3G) or the forth generation (4G) technology has 
become the main stream of recent research in 
communication technologies. In addition, the issue of 
quality of service (QoS) is an essential requirement for 
the provisioning of several contemporary services. IEEE 
802.16 series, or Worldwide Interoperability for 
Microwave Access (WiMax), has been widely 
recognized as one of the most convincible technologies 
for the provision of next generation communication 
world due to its IP-based characteristics and QoS 
consideration. The IEEE 802.16 working group [1, 2] is 
responsible for the developing the standards of WiMax. 
Currently, the 802.16-2004 and 802.16e-2005 have been 
proposed for the supports of fixed and mobile physical 
and medium access control (MAC) protocol between 
base station (BS) and subscriber stations (SS), 
respectively. The certification procedure and certification 
laboratory of 802.16-2004 was completed in 2005 and 
several products have been passed the certification till 
now [3]. 
 Although the most attractive feature of WiMax is 
the mobile capability proposed in IEEE 802.16e-2005, its 
certification procedure is still under discussion and its 
transmission performance is not well verified. When 
comparing to WLAN, the WiMax has wider coverage. As 
most existing customers’ appliances are WiFi embedded, 
a more practical and possible application of WiMax in 
current stage is to deploy the broadband wireless access 
network in a heterogeneous architecture through the 
integration of 802.16-2004 and wireless LAN. In 
WiMax/WLAN heterogeneous architecture, the access 
point (AP) of WLAN is attached with the subscriber 
can accommodate several layer 3 connections. In this 
paper, the mobile station uses the RSVP signaling to 
reserve bandwidth in WLAN as we can see that the 
RSVP messages indicated between mobile station and SS. 
Based on the bandwidth requested by the mobile station, 
SS shall negotiate with BS for the desired bandwidth 
such that the mobile station can reserve the desired 
bandwidth just like in the traditional wired network. 
Furthermore, the reserved bandwidth can also be 
maintained when the mobile station travels to other SS. 
In order to achieve this objective, the bandwidth between 
SS and BS is dynamic arranged through DSC signaling 
in accordance with the movement of mobile stations. In 
802.16, a connection can be established with admitted 
bandwidth specified in the QoS parameter set. The 
admitted bandwidth is the resource that the BS promised 
the SS to utilize during the path establishment phase. 
However, the BS will actually allocate radio resource to 
SS upon the activation of bandwidth, which means the 
active bandwidth, from SS. The DSC message is applied 
to change the resource configuration of the existing 
connection. Thus, BS may allocate the bandwidth, which 
has been admitted for a connection but has not been 
activated, to other connections (e.g. connections of best 
effort). However, if SS issues DSC to change some of its 
admitted bandwidth into activation, BS shall be able to 
allocate the activated bandwidth to this SS. In addition to 
the activated bandwidth, the admitted bandwidth can also 
be modified through DSC signaling. 
 
Figure 2 Architecture of WiMax/WLAN 
 
In this paper, we assume that the bandwidth of 
WLAN is sufficient to support the RSVP connection and 
we focus on the negotiation mechanism of bandwidth 
between BS and SS when mobile stations travel among 
multiple subscriber stations managed by a BS. Thus, 
handoff of RSVP connections will be required when a 
mobile station is moving from one SS to the other SS. 
The proposed algorithm is to properly allocate bandwidth 
to SS so that the QoS of the handoff connections can be 
maintained and the utilization wireless resource can be 
increased. In WLAN, the QoS management has been 
defined in IEEE 802.11e. The QoS mechanism defined 
in 802.11e can not be applied in the 802.16 environment 
directly. Several studies [4-8] were proposed to discuss 
the resource management in 802.16. However, seldom of 
them study the QoS issue of WiMax/WLAN 
environment. In this paper, we do not investigate the 
mapping of QoS between 802.11e and 802.16. The 
RSVP connection may be supported by UGS or rtPS in 
802.16 environment. In this paper, we focus the 
bandwidth management and negotiation mechanism 
between BS and SS. 
 
3. Dynamic Bandwidth Management Scheme 
in WiMax 
 
The bandwidth management scheme in 
WiMax is different from that of WLAN. Basically, 
the BS of WiMax can totally control the network 
resource according to its MAC layer protocol. And, 
in WLAN, the QoS is managed through the 
self-control of each station. In [8], the mapping 
procedure between RSVP in WLAN and the 
management of DS connections in WiMax was 
studied. Each RSVP connection was directly 
mapped to a layer 2 DS connection in their 
approach which will introduce heavy burden in 
managing a number of DS connections. In addition, 
the utilization of bandwidth is inflexible especially 
when dealing with the handoff connections. In this 
paper, we treat the DS connection as an 
accommodation pipe for the RSVP connections 
with the same class of service. And the bandwidth 
of the DS connection can be shared by these RSVP 
connections. 
As mentioned in previous section, SS may be 
admitted to hold some bandwidth from BS for a 
specific DS connection, however, only a portion of 
the bandwidth is activated. The admitted 
bandwidth can be regarded as a kind of deposit 
and SS can change it into activation when 
necessary without further admission. Our concept 
is to dynamically adjust the admitted bandwidth 
and the activated bandwidth of SS in accordance 
with its condition and to incorporate the status of 
bandwidth with the connection admission control 
(CAC) for connections with different class of 
services. 
When a mobile station with RSVP connection 
moves from one SS to the other SS, the target SS 
will receive the Resv message periodically sent by 
the mobile station. An appropriate treatment is to 
allocate enough bandwidth to the handoff RSVP 
connection of the mobile station. Generally, the 
handoff connection shall receive a higher priority 
to obtain the network resource than that of the new 
connection from the quality point of view. In order 
to manage the bandwidth effectively, the parameter, 
admitted bandwidth utilization proportion (ABUP), 
is defined to indicate the ratio between the active 
bandwidth and the admitted bandwidth of a 802.16 
connection. The bandwidth of each connection of 
802.16 between BS and SS, which is regarded as a 
traffic aggregation pipe in this paper, is managed 
separately with respect to the forwarding class of 
the traffic pipe. And RSVP connections can be 
the phenomenon of the bandwidth allocation for different 
forwarding classes. The simulation architecture is shown 
in Figure 5. In our simulation, we did not consider the 
adaptive coding and assume that the whole effective 
bandwidth managed by the BS is 100Mbps. Three of 
aggregation pipes with different forwarding classes, rtPS, 
nrtPS, and best effort, were assumed to be established 
between SS and BS. And RSVP connection generated by 
each mobile station was according to Poisson distribution 
with mean λ . The forwarding class of each RSVP 
connection was randomly decided when the connection 
was generated. The characteristics of each RSVP 
connection of different kinds of forwarding class are 
listed in Table 1. 
 
Table 1 Characteristics of Generated Connections 
Connection 
type 
Mean Holding 
Time 
(exponential 
distribution) 
Bandwidth 
(uniform 
distribution) 
rtPs 300 seconds 0.6~1 Mbps 
nrtPs 180seconds 0.4~0.6 Mbps 
Best effort 60 seconds 0.1~0.2 Mbps 
 
 
 
Figure 5 Simulation Architecture 
 
Initially, the layer 2 connections of rtPS and nrtPS, 
between each SS and BS were established with admitted 
bandwidth of 6Mbps and 4Mbps, respectively. The 
admitted bandwidths of the uplink and downlink are the 
same. Thus, each SS is initially allocated 10Mbps for 
uplink and 10 Mbps for the downlink. In the simulation 
architecture, there are 4 SS, therefore, the residual held 
by BS is 100Mbps-20Mbpsx4=20Mbps. In our 
simulation, we examine the effect of the allocated 
bandwidth ratio (ABR), which is defined as the ratio of 
bandwidth allocated for the rtPS and nrtPS connections, 
and the blocking probabilities for new connection and 
handoff connection with respect to the changes of the 
threshold value α  under the load of λ =3. 
In Figure 6, the ABR of with respect to the changes 
of the threshold β  is illustrated. It is noted that the 
value of β   varies in Figure 6 is applicable for rtPS 
only. For the value of  β   of the nrtPS is fixed to 
0.6Mbps. In this case, the ABR of rtPS increases as the 
value of β  is becoming larger. The reason is that β   
of the nrtPS is fixed while it is varied in rtPS and a larger 
value of β  makes the SS tend to obtain more admitted 
bandwidth. Hence the ABR of rtPS increases. It is found 
that the ABR becomes stable when the value of β  is 
larger than 1.5 times of α . Because we assume the 
simulation is performed under heavy load (λ =3) and the 
BS has no residual bandwidth to be allocated for the 
above condition. This phenomenon can be deduced from 
the following results. 
 
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2
β(multiple of α)
AB
R rtPS 
nrtPS 
 
Figure 6 ABR of rtPS and nrtPS 
 
The simulation results of the blocking rates of new 
connection and handoff connection are illustrated in 
Figure 7 and 8, respectively. In Figure 7, it indicates that 
the blocking rate of new connection of nrtPS is lower 
than that of rtPS. And, on the other hand, the blocking 
rate of rtPS is superior to that of the nrtPS. The main 
reason is that a portion (α ) of the admitted bandwidth in 
SS is reserved for the allocation of rtPS exclusively. This 
arrangement prefers the resource to be allocated for 
handoff connections and the blocking probability of rtPS 
is much lower than that of nrtPS. To increase the 
threshold value β  can reduce the blocking probability 
of rtPS, however, the performance of nrtPS will be 
sacrificed. Because, as mentioned above, our simulation 
is performed under heavy load and the BS can not 
support enough bandwidth for connections of rtPS as 
well as nrtPS. It also noted that the blocking probabilities 
are becoming stable when the value of β  is larger than 
1.5 times of α . This phenomenon is consistence with 
the condition that we have discussed in Figure 6. 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC95-2221-E-008-030
計畫名稱 新世代行動寬頻異質接取網路移動管理技術之研究 (II)
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
陳彥文 (國立中央大學通訊系副教授)
會議時間地點 March 11~15, 2007, Hong Kong
會議名稱
(中文) 2007 IEEE 無線通訊與網路會議
(英文) 2007 IEEE Communications & Networking Conference (WCNC)
發表論文題目
(中文) 移動 IPv6在 802.16e環境下換手之跨層設計
(英文) A Cross Layer Design for Handoff in 802.16e Network with IPv6
Mobility
一、參加會議經過
國際無線通訊與網路會議(WCNC)是 IEEE主辦通訊領域最重要的國際學術會議之一，具
相當悠久之歷史。本年度在香港舉行，會議期間為 2007年 3月 11日到 3月 15日。本年度會
議主要分成 Phy/Mac、Networking、及 Service&Applications三大領域，每一領域再分多項子
題，強調之重點多為最新無線通信及網路相關技術，每屆都吸引了來自世界各地數十個國家
的學者、專家、及通信相關業者參加。筆者所發表之論文為WiMax環境換手跨層之研究，主
要在 Networking領域之會場發表。除參與研討會發表論文外，筆者也主動參與 IEEE有關
Network Engineering工作小組會議，並與包括香港大學、多倫多大學在內之多位學者有深入
的交談，交換研究心得。會議之主要議程如下：
IEEE WCNC 2007 Schedule of Events
Sunday 11 March 2007
12:00–18:00 Registration Open
13:00–17:00 Half Day Tutorials with Lunch and Afternoon
Break
18:00–21:00 Welcoming Reception (Drinks with Food)
Monday 12 March 2007
7:00–17:30 Registration Open
8:30–10:30 Keynote/Plenary Session
10:00–12:00 Poster Sessions
10:30–11:00 Morning Break
10:50 - 12:15 Technology /Business Application Panel
11:00–12:10 Phy/MAC, Networks, Services &
Applications Technical Sessions
12:10–14:00 Lunch
14:00–15:25 Phy/MAC, Networks, Services &
15:55 - 17:25 Technology /Business Application Panel
19:00–22:00 Banquet–Off-Site at Peak at Cafe Deco
Thursday 15 March 2007
7:30–12:00 Registration Open
8:30–12:30 5 Half Day Tutorials with Morning Break and
Lunch
筆者的論文被安排在 3月 13日下午 T3s35: Mobile and wireless IP–2發表。筆者所發表
論文共有三名聽眾發問，筆者也都儘所能給予回答。筆者除在主會議發表上述論文外，也參
與其他多場與WiMax及 Sensor Network相關論文發表，從各學者之成果發表中，瞭解此領域
之研究方向，由於WiMax正處於快速發展期，能在此重要國際研討會上聽聞此領域之研究成
果，對筆者未來研究工作之進行，收獲非常豐碩。
二、與會心得
此次非常感謝在國科會之經費補助支持下能參與 2007 IEEE WCNC國際會議，本會議主
題強調的重點在無線通訊網路，在研究成果上也強調實務的重要性。在聆聽與討論的過程中
中，可深入瞭解各國在無線通訊網路等相關領域的研究發展情形，而利用此機會參與 IEEE
有關 Engineering工作小組會議，由於與會者均為具相當多實務經驗之人士，因此也獲得許多
通訊實務之知識。
三、建議
由於WCNC是一相當具份量之國際學術研討會，此會議參與人數逐年增加，規模也日
漸壯大。從與會人員來看，中國大陸近年來參與國際學術研討會人數，有相當大幅的增加，
並也透過發表論文及主持會議擴增其學術影響力，建議國內應對我國參與具重要國際學術會
議之學者多一點支援與協助，不但可提供國內學者在國際學術活動之參與感，也能增加國際
知名度與影響力。
四、附件
本人發表之論文附錄如後
following section, the handoff scenarios and related
message sequence charts of 802.16e and fast mobile
IPv6 are briefly reviewed. The proposed procedure of
cross layer handoff is stated in section III. In section IV,
we examine the performance of the proposed scheme
through simulations and the results of the proposed
scheme are compared with the scheme proposed in [4].
And, finally, conclusions of this paper and future
researches are provided.
II. Descriptions of 802.16e Mobility and
Fast Mobile IPv6
Basically, handoff delay is one of the most
important issues discussed in mobile network,
especially for the real time services. Traditionally, the
procedure of handoff is performed in layered approach.
And to handoff an existing connection or service stream
is processed in a vertical manner in accordance with the
protocol layer. The main functions of layer 2 layer 3 are
to deal with hop-by hop link and end-to-end connection
issues, respectively. Hence each layer shall perform its
handoff function with respect to the associated layer
function. In current network environment, IP service is
the most popular layer-3 protocol, however, it may run
over various kinds of layer-2 protocols. In this paper we
consider the mobility issue of IP over 802.16e
environment. The basic mobility scenarios of 802.16e
and fast mobile IPv6 are briefly described in the
following.
The mobility supported in 802.16e is basically a
layer 2 handoff. And its procedure can be divided into
the following five steps:
- Cell reselection
- Handoff decision and initiation
- Synchronization to target BS
- Handoff ranging
- Termination of MS context
In order to speedup the handoff delay, in 802.16e, the
mobile station can issue the scan request for potential
base stations (also regarded as target BS) under the
permission of its service BS. Three kinds of associations
are defined to assist the scan procedure of MS. Level 0
association is the most straightforward scheme where no
coordination process between serving BS and target BS
is performed. After get the permission for scan by the
serving BS, the mobile station shall contend with the
MS of the target BS, which it is going to scan, for
sending ranging request message to the target BS. Level
1 and 2 association were proposed with the coordination
of the serving BS. That is the serving BS will negotiate
with the target BSs in advance so that the MS can avoid
the contention procedure. And the main difference
between level 1 and 2 is that the ranging results replied
by the target BSs (through BS-to-BS interface) will be
collected by the serving BS in level 2 association. This
arrangement has the advantage that there is no need for
the target BS to allocate additional downlink sub-carrier
and bandwidth for the MS.
After obtaining the ranging results, the decision of
which BS the MS is going to handoff can be made by
either the MS or the serving BS. The basic procedure of
handoff is illustrated in Figure 1. It shows that the
serving BS sends “handoff (HO) notification”to two
target BSs after receiving the handoff request initiated
by MS. And the serving BS selects a target BS and
sends the“HO response”to MS after receiving the “HO
notification response”messages sent by target BSs.
MOB_MSHO-REQ
HO notification
HO notification
HO notification-RSP
HO notification-RSP
MOB_HO-RSP
MOB_HO-IND
DL Sync parameters (DL and UL parameters with DCD/UCD)
HO-confirm
Contention resolution
RNG_RSP (Success)
RNG_REQ (Serving BSID)
MS Serving BS Ta rget BS 1 Target BS2
Figure 1 The message sequence chart of handoff in 802.16e
The basic idea of fast mobile IPv6 is to allow some
procedure of IP mobility to be processed in an earlier
stage. Mainly, the mobility procedure of IP layer can be
divided into two steps: The first step is to obtain the
care of address (CoA) and the second step is to register
the obtained CoA at home agent and correspondent
node (CN) (if route optimization is required). The fast
mobile IPv6 is to assist the mobile node to obtain its
CoA before the initiation of handoff. In the proposed
fast mobile IPv6, there are two possible scenarios,
named as predictive mode and reactive mode depending
on whether the MS can connect to its previous access
router (PAR) or not when sending the fast binding
update (FBU) message. The reactive mode (i.e. the FBU
message can not be reached PAR and shall be tunneled
to the next access router (NAR)) happened when MS is
moving fast. It is noted that the disconnection interval
existed when the mobile node is disconnected by the
PAR and is waiting for the connection from NAR.
In order to achieve the complete handoff procedure,
a direct way is to overlay the handoff procedure of layer
2 over layer 3 as discussed in [4]. However, it can be
found that this scheme requires procedure of layer 3 to
be performed after the completion of layer 2 handoff.
Hence the duration of disconnection time increases.
III. Cross Layer Design for L2/L3
Handoff
Figure 3 Predictive CLHS with integrated BS/AR
IV. Performance Simulations
The performance of the proposed scheme is
examined through exhaustive simulations. A network
topology with 7 base stations, as shown in Figure 4, is
applied in our simulations. In Figure 4, each base station
has 4 circles, which denote different kinds of channel
conditions. From the inner circle to the most outside
circle, the channel condition is assumed to be getting
worse. We assume that each MS will always select the
BS that can offer the channel with the best condition.
For example, if a MS is moving as shown in Figure 4,
the MS will decide to handoff from BS 3 to BS 7
because the MS will be in the second circle of BS 7
after movement and the channel condition with BS 7
will be better than that of BS 3, which is located at the
forth circle.
The mobility model of each MS in our simulation is
assumed to be with random way point [6]. The speed of
each MS is uniformly distributed between 0~120
KM/hour. If the speed is 0, it means that the MS stops
within that interval (halt duration). And the halt time is
exponentially distributed with mean 15 seconds while
within the ranges of 3 seconds and 30 seconds. The
transmission delay between base stations is assumed to
be 5 ms. It is assumed that the moving area of all mobile
stations are confined by the outer rectangular boundary.
And, in order to measure the performance in a more
meaningful manner, only the handoffs occurred inside
the inner rectangular are taken into account for our
simulation results.
MS
Figure 4 Simulation topology
The simulation results are divided into two parts.
The first part is mainly related to the handoff latency
and the second part is related to the blocking rates of
handoff for the proposed scheme and the scheme
proposed in [4].
Figure 5 compares the handoff delay of the proposed
CLHS and the fast handoff for 802.16e (FH802.16e)
scheme proposed in [4]. It is noted that the delay time is
mainly dependent on the number of messages to be
processed in our simulation. We assume that the
message shall be processed within the duration of an
802.16e frame and will be response to its peer in the
following frame. It is found that the delay time is
insensitive to the number of mobile stations. However,
the handoff latency of our scheme is less than that of
FH802.16e. The reason is that our scheme needs less
number of messages than that of FH802.16e when
performing handoff.
Handoff Delay
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160
MS Number
Handoff Delay
(ms)
CLHS Predictive CLHS Reactive
FH802.16e Predictive FH802.16e Reactive
Figure 5 Handoff delay v.s. number of MS
We compare the message flows of CLHS and
FH802.16e as shown in Figure 6. It indicates that,
through the integration of FMIPv6 message and 802.16e
message, the proposed CLHS
