users and a Grid infrastructure will make mobile 
computing be pervaded as other network devices. 
Additionally, a mobile agent (MA) is a software 
program of which the main purpose is moving among 
nodes within a network to perform its predefined task. It 
can process a given task based on its designed logic, and 
then return the result to users. Autonomy and mobility are 
its key features. Numerous mobile agent systems (MASs) 
have been developed and applied to many domains, such 
as information retrieval and percolation, e-commerce, 
mobile communication and distributed computing.  
Basically, communication is one of the key issues in an 
MAS. An agent has to communicate with others before it 
can properly cooperate with them to finish their given 
tasks. Therefore, a reliable communication protocol is 
required. However, “reliable” often induces a sophisticate 
validation process or mechanism which often degrades the 
performance of an MAS, and even makes MAs unable to 
accomplish the desired mission. 
In this article, we propose a distributed sendbox 
scheme, which is developed on a Grid platform, to deal 
with problems depicted above. Each Grid node in the 
platform has a sendbox to temporarily buffer and send 
messages for agents, and some access points to support 
wireless access to Grid resources. Our scheme can 
efficiently forward messages to the receiver agent R even 
R migrating frequently. 
The rest of this article is organized as follows. Section 
2 introduces the relevant background and related work. 
Section 3 describes our system architecture. The service 
platform and the experimental results are presented in 
sections 4 and 5, respectively. Section 6 concludes this 
article. 
 
2. Related Work 
 
Wireless Grid is a newly popular concept in recent 
years. McKnight et al. [1] proposed a resource sharing 
model for small and nomadic devices with which they 
simultaneously recorded a series of mono sounds and then 
mixed them into stereo sounds. However, this approach 
did not address communication stability.  
Srinivasan [2] proposed a new suppose: Wireless 
devices were primary integration devices. All peripherals 
could use short distance wireless communication (e.g., 
Bluetooth, Ultra Wide Band (UWB), Zigbee) to form a 
PLAN to share resources, such as monitor, disk, or input 
devices. However, the UWB is still in draft and Bluetooth 
is widespread but too slow to transfer a huge amount of 
information.  
MEFS [3] proposed Chasing Message Register and 
Over-speed Agent Waiting mechanism. A message was 
considered as a chasing message after C times of failed 
delivery. When the migration frequency of an agent was 
over a threshold V, it stopped moving and checked if any 
chasing message was stored in the Chasing Message 
Register. Some problems on the other hand were raised, 
e.g. the configuration of system parameter V. 
Resending-based protocol [4] could provide reliable 
communication by using sliding-window for error control. 
When some messages were lost, S resent them. After 
several trails, S requested the receiver’s new location from 
the server and sent messages again. However, there was 
no upper limit of resending times. For frequently 
migrating agents, this protocol suffered from 
communication overhead. 
Other schemes such as Mailbox-based scheme [7], 
ARP [8], forwarding-based MAS [5-8] and resending-
based approaches [3, 4], all had their own problems and 
drawbacks to be solved. 
 
3. System Architecture 
 
In this article, we propose a Wireless Grid System, 
named Wireless Grid-based Mobile Agent System 
(WGMAS), which is a hard-wired Grid integrated with 
wireless network and a Session Initiate Protocol [9] based 
(SIP-based) communication mechanism to establish a 
wireless Grid environment. Users can access Grid 
resources through wired or wireless networks. Figure 1 
illustrates the WGMAS architecture in which Grid Mobile 
Agent Proxy (GMAP) is the management center taking 
charge of agent login, registration, dispatch, and recall. 
STUN (Simple Traversal of UDP through NATs), as a 
NAT Traversal solution of SIP, makes packets routable 
Fig. 1 WGMAS architecture 
p. 3 
NAT, to query P’s “source port #”. The server replies with 
the port number N to A, which will send N to GMA B. 
Thus, with N, GMA B can directly communicate with A 
as in a normal situation. 
OGSP
SuR
SCI
SR
1
TIH
2
3'
GMA
2'
 
4. Service Platform 
 
We propose an Open Grid Service Platform (OGSP) to 
intermediate the web services, which are installed on GN, 
to enable users to search or publish their service 
descriptions which are indexes and can be queried by 
users. Users in WGMAS are classified into ordinary users 
and Grid Service Providers (GSPs). All services that GSPs 
provide must be indexed by OGSP before they can be 
searched or used by users. Desiring to register to GMAP, 
users can deploy GMAs to connect to it through 
wired/wireless network. In this platform, information or 
data will be delivered with direct mode or forward mode 
mentioned before to raise the communication quality and 
form a pervasive computing environment. 
Fig. 3 IQS 
OGSP
SuR
 
4.1. Components 
 
The OGSP, as shown in Fig. 2, consists of Service 
Repository (SR), Subscription Repository (SuR), Service 
Content Index (SCI) and Temporary Information Holder 
(TIH). SR stores the service contents, advertisements or 
announcements. SuR keeps the information concerning 
users’ subscription. SCI indexes open service providers 
and service contents to speed up users browsing. TIH is 
implemented on sandbox to temporary hold service 
information. 
 
4.1.1. SR and SCI. SR is equipped on every GN as the 
service container. After users upload their contents to SR, 
OGSP indexes the content automatically and save the 
indexes to SCI to briefly introduce services provided. 
Besides, users can also upload their indexes to SCI and 
keep service contents in their servers. 
 
4.1.2. SuR and TIH. Users can subscribe their services to 
OGSP periodically or occasionally. Subscription 
information includes providers’ name, service name, 
update frequency (e.g. daily or weekly) and subscription 
period (e.g. one week or one month). After requesting a 
service, a user may go offline temporarily before 
receiving the service information Inf. The OGSP will 
store Inf into the TIH of the underlying node. When users 
go online again, TIH delivers Inf to users directly. 
 
4.2. Service types 
 
To improve the quality of service of WGMAS, we 
propose two main access mechanisms: Instant Query 
Service (IQS) and Subscription and Notify Service (SNS). 
The former is an interactive mode. The later delivers 
service information indirectly. 
 
4.2.1. Instant Query Service (IQS). IQS is the basic user 
service mode of this system. As shown in Fig. 3. Wanting 
to query Grid node GN1’s status or request services, a user 
dispatches a GMA to GN1 first. SR sends the contents to 
user devices also through a GMA. IQS is implemented by 
direct mode. However, if the user device becomes offline 
suddenly, the system will buffer the remaining messages 
in TIH and switch to SNS mode. 
4.2.2. Subscription-and-Notify Service (SNS). OGSP 
allows a mobile user U to subscribe his/her required 
information Inf since it is inconvenient for a user to 
periodically or frequently self-browse a system to access 
Fig. 4 SNS 
Fig. 2 Components of OGSP 
OGSP
SuR
SCI
SR
Query (1)
Subscribe (1)
Deliver Ms (2)
GMAP
Query
Registration
Generate
TIH Del
iver
 Ms 
(2)＇
Save Ms
SCI
SR
TIH
3
5
U＇s GMA1
GMAP
2
4
3
p. 5 
49~133ms. We can see, in the forward mode, the sendbox 
spends more time for buffering and sending messages. 
 
6. Conclusion and Future Work 
 
In this article, we integrate a distributed sendbox 
scheme with Grid platform which delivers agent messages 
based on SIP to solve communication failure and message 
chasing issues. While receiver agents are stationary, direct 
mode is used to handle inter-agent communications. 
Forward mode is invoked while recipients are 
unregistered, and messages are forwarded indirectly and 
distributively by sendboxes. The two modes could 
eventually delivery all messages to their receivers. We 
also propose an architecture to make the Gird node 
wirelessly accessible to maximize the resource utilization 
for each node. Moreover, we develop a service platform, 
which integrates agents, services, brokers and resources, 
to make this proposed environment more robust and 
reliable. 
Communication performance and utilization 
of our SIP-based 
mechanism with others existing protocols, and port 
various feasible applications, especially those of mobile 
computing domain, to WGMAS and OGSP. Furthermore, 
we are planning to integrate the sensors into our 
mechanism, to make our service platform become 
“location sensible” and “location awardable”. 
 
 
probability are the two factors we wan
We will compare the performance 
t to be prospected. 
References 
rinivasan, “Pervasive wireless grid 
[2]  
[3]  
[4]  
[5]  
[7]  
d Algorithm for Message Delivery in Mobile 
Fig. 7 Direct mode utilization rates
 
 
[1]  S.H. S
architecture,” In Proc. of the International 
Conference on Wireless On-demand Network 
Systems and Services, 2005, pp. 83 – 88. 
L.W. McKnight, J. Howison and S. Bradner, “Guest 
Editors' Introduction: Wireless Grids--D
Fig. 8 Communication time of Direct mode
istributed 
Resource Sharing by Mobile, Nomadic, and Fixed 
Devices,” IEEE Internet Computing, vol. 8, 2004, pp. 
24 – 31. 
J.Y. Zhou, Z.Y. Jia and D.X. Chen, “Designing 
Reliable Communication Protocols for Mobile 
Agents,” In Proc. of the International Conference on 
Distributed Computing Systems Workshops, 2003, 
pp. 484-487. 
M. Ranganathan, M. Beddnarek and D. 
Montgomery, “A Reliable Message Delivery 
Protocol for Mobile Agents,” In Proc. of the Joint 
International Symposium ASA/MA’2000. 
ObjectSpace Inc., “Objectspace voyager”, 
http://www.objectspace.com/voyager, 1997. 
[6]  J. Desbiens, M. Lavoie and F. Renaud, 
“Communication and Tracking Infrastructu
Fig. 9 Communication time of Forward mode
re of a 
Mobile Agent System,” In Proc. of the International 
Conference on System Science, vol.7, 1998, pp. 54-
63. 
X.Y. Feng, J.N. Cao, et al., “An Efficient Mailbox-
Base
p. 7 
