目錄 
一、中文摘要                 I 
二、英文摘要                II 
三、報告內容 
3.1 BACKGROUND               1 
3.2 PURPOSE OF STUDY              3 
3.3 METHODOLOGY              3 
3.4 CONSTRUSTION OF INF-SRM SYSTEM          4 
3.5 RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS            8 
四、參考文獻                10 
五、計畫成果自評                     11 
 
附件：出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
II 
二、 英文摘要：  
 
In this research, a new intelligent neural-fuzzy based in-process surface roughness 
monitoring (INF-SRM) system in an end milling operation will be developed.  To enhance 
the accuracy of surface roughness prediction, the input factors of the INF-SRM system consist 
of both controllable and uncontrollable input factors.  The machining parameters, such as 
spindle speed, feed rate and/or depth of cut, are the controllable factors as inputs for the 
INF-SRM system.  The sensing technology used to monitor the uncontrolled cutting tool 
conditions to increase the accuracy of the system.  The average resultant peak force in XY 
plane (Fap) and the absolute average force in the Z direction (Faz) are employed as the other 
inputs to represent the uncontrollable cutting tool conditions for surface roughness monitoring.  
The new neural-fuzzy model will be developed and implemented as decision making system 
for the INF-SRM system.  The input factors will be analyzed by the neural-fuzzy model and 
then generate the predicted surface roughness for an end-milling operation. 
 
The success of the INF-SRM system depends on an accurate decision-making system, 
which can analyze the input factors and then generate an accurate output.  This research 
focuses on the developing of a new neural-fuzzy model for the decision-making system.  
The objective of the model is to achieve a higher accuracy for surface roughness prediction 
and reduce the disadvantages of both neural networks and fuzzy logic.  To evaluate the 
performance of the new neural-fuzzy model, a decision making system of neural networks 
will also be developed for surface roughness monitoring.  A statistical method will be 
employed to analyze the accuracy of surface roughness prediction between these models. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Words: intelligent neural-fuzzy model, in-process surface roughness prediction, end 
milling operations, neural networks, fuzzy logic.  
 
 
 
 
 
 2
directions, due mainly to the difficulties encountered with the wide range of process variables 
in real-world applications [10]. Some early efforts have been made to achieve these objectives, 
such as developing an in-process surface roughness prediction system.  An in-process 
surface roughness prediction system uses a mathematical algorithm or expert system to 
analyze data within each machining process.  Since analytical activities are made by the 
computer within the machining process, this system responds to the quality characteristic 
immediately.  Therefore, the time of quality inspection typically taken by operators or 
quality engineers has been decreased.  Eventually, an in-process surface roughness 
prediction system would be able to both ensure the quality and maintain the normal 
productivity.  An in-process neural network-based surface roughness prediction system 
[11,12] has been developed by using machining parameters and sensing signals to do the real 
time surface roughness prediction.  Risbood, Dixit, and Saharabudle [7] has found 
considerable positive results in predicting roughness using cutting parameters such as 
vibration, feed rate, depth of cut, and spindle speed.  Tsai and Wang [13] conducted a 
comparative study between neural network models and neuro-fuzzy model on predictions of 
surface finish in electrical discharge machining.  
 
  Monitoring and controlling the surface roughness in end milling operations is 
considered a complex process, and there is no theoretical model has been applied to predict its 
surface roughness. The surface roughness is significantly affected by the machining parameter, 
feed rate (in/min) [2].  However, other uncontrollable factors, such as the vibration during 
the cutting process or the homogeneity of the material, will also affect the surface roughness 
of the cutting material.  These uncontrollable factors make the surface roughness difficulty 
to be predicted by the machining parameters only.  Therefore, to monitor those 
uncontrollable factors, a sensing technology is needed. To simultaneously handle both 
controllable and uncontrollable factors in the end-milling operation, the nonlinear models are 
basically applied to integrate these factors and generate a proper output.   
 
  Neural networks have been applied to obtain the functional relationship between input 
and output variables. The performance of neural networks can be assessed by its accuracy of 
prediction, time required to determine the best architecture and the number of data needed to 
fit a network model [14].  The problems of neural networks is time consuming in training 
and the possibility of finding local optimal solution since the hidden layers of neural liked a 
black hole. Fuzzy logic and fuzzy inference system is another useful technique for the 
identification and control of complex non-liner systems.  Fuzzy logic is widely attractive 
because of its ability to solve problems without accurate mathematical models [15].  But 
whether or not fuzzy logic works well depends on the expert for fuzzy IF-THEN rules 
generation and design of the non-adaptive fuzzy set.  Both techniques have been applied as 
decision-making tools for surface roughness prediction [5,6,11].  However, the problems 
indicated above made the tools difficult to practically apply in the industry since the 
predictive results is not accurate enough to achieve the needs from the industry. 
 4
bank, the needs of experts for the fuzzy logic can be eliminated.  Summarizing the concepts 
of neural fuzzy model, the following steps were concluded to construct the INF-SRM system. 
Step 1. Determine input and output factors 
Step 2. Collect training data 
Step 3. Construct the fuzzy sets for input and output factors 
Step 4. Determine the IF-THEN rule bank with training data 
Step 5. Set root mean square error (RMSE) as a threshold for the stop of training 
Step 6. Expend the number of fuzzy sets for input and output factors and repeat from step 3 if 
the objective RMSE is not achieved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
3.4  CONSTRUSTION OF INF-SRM SYSTEM 
Step 1. Determine Input and output factors for INF-SRM system 
The input factors of INF-SRM system included controllable and uncontrollable factors.  
The machining parameters, such as spindle speed, feed rate and/or depth of cut, are the 
controllable factors as inputs for the INF-SRM system.  To monitor the uncontrollable factor 
for the INF-SRM system, the sensing technology was utilized to monitor the cutting process 
and collect the message of uncontrollable factor.  The dynamometer sensor was applied to 
monitor the cutting force signal during the end milling operation. 
 
In an end milling operation, the cutting force can be categorized into two parts.  One 
is the cutting force along the cutting plane, which is the XY plane in this research (FX or FY).  
The other is the cutting force normal to the cutting plane, which is the Z direction.  In the XY 
plane of an end milling process, when a tooth enters and leaves the cutting material, it 
generates a cyclic cutting force, FX  or FY , from zero to a maximum force, and then it returns 
to zero in the X or Y direction for each tooth.  The cyclic force resembles a peak.  Figure 2 
shows the force diagram of one tooth. The principle of cutting force can be expanded to the 
resultant force, FR , generated by the X and Y directions.  The resultant force could be 
expressed as: 
   22 YXR FFF += .         (1)    
Neural assisted IF-THEN rule bank 
Defuzzified
Input 
factors Output 
factors 
Figure 1. The architecture of neural-fuzzy model 
 6
                  
  
 
 
 
For the cutting force in the Z direction (FZ), the magnitude of the cutting force was 
affected by the depth of cut and vibration between the cutting tool and workpiece.  Due to the 
vibration property between the cutting tool and workpiece, the force signal does not have any 
regular pattern within each revolution (shown in Figure 4).  Intuitively, the signal pattern 
should relate to the profile of the cutting surface.  The absolute average force in the Z 
direction ( azF ) was applied as another input factor and could be expressed as: 
   kjFF k
j zaz
/)(
1∑ == ,        (3)    
  where k is the total number of data within certain revolutions in this research. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The average resultant peak force ( apF ), and the absolute average force ( azF ) have been 
statistically proved that both of them significantly affected the surface roughness in an end 
milling operation [11].  Therefore, these two forces are applied as the other two input factors 
to represent the uncontrollable cutting tool conditions.  The training data set for the 
One Revolution
Figure 3.  Actual resultant force diagram of four-tooth milling tool 
FP(1) FP(3) 
FP(2) 
FP(4)
Four-tooth milling tool 
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
Fz 
(N) 
One Revolution One Revolution 
j 
Figure 4. Cutting force diagram in the Z direction 
 8
set the rule bank.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Membership grade of 2000 RPM of spindle speed 
 
Step 5. Set root mean square error (RMSE) as a threshold for the stop of training 
As soon as the IF-THEN rule bank was built, the fuzzy reasoning and input factors of 
training data will be implemented to predict the surface roughness. A centroid defuzzification 
method was utilized to calculate the predicted surface roughness and shown as follow: 
  ∑∑
×=
ji
jji
iap
X
R
,
,
, μ
μ
,       (4) 
where μi,j is the membership grade of jth input factor of the ith data and Xj indicates the related 
central value of fuzzy set.    
   
  The predicted surface roughness will compare to the actual surface roughness and 
calculate the root mean square error, which can be listed as follow: 
 ∑ −= nRRRMSE iaiap /)( 2,,       (5) 
The threshold of INF-SRM system was set as 0.05.  If the RMSE value was lager than 
the threshold, the training process will get into next step. 
 
Step 6. Expend the number of fuzzy sets for input and output factors 
   The initial fuzzy sets of each factor were set as 2n+1 with n = 1.  When the RMSE is 
larger than the threshold, the fuzzy sets will be expended as n = 2.  The rule of expansion is 
based on the significant of factors.  In the INF-SRM system, the feed rate is the most 
significant factor that affected the surface roughness.  Therefore, it will be expended and then 
the training process will return to step 3 and start over again until the RMSE is less than the 
threshold. 
      
3.5  RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
  The success of the INF-SRM system is based on the decision-making system, which 
can analyze the input factors and then generate an accurate output.  This research focuses on 
the developing of a new neural-fuzzy model as a decision-making system for the INF-SRM 
system.  The objective of the model is to achieve a higher accuracy of surface roughness 
prediction and reduce the disadvantages of both neural networks and fuzzy logic.  With this 
model, the try-and-error parameter setting and long training time in neural networks should be 
1750 2125 2500 
SS MS LS 1 
μ(x) 2000 
0.33 
0.67 
 10
Table 2. RMSE of neural-fuzzy and neural network model 
 Neural-fuzzy model Neural network model 
RMSE 0.0498 0.0842 
 
四、 參考文獻 
[1]. S. C. Lin (1994). Computer numerical control-from programming to networking. NY: 
Delmar. 
[2]. E. P. DeGarmo, J. T. Black, & R. A. Kohser (1997). Materials and processes in 
manufacturing-8th edition.  NJ: Prentice Hall. 
[3]. M. P. Groover (2007). Fundamentals of Modern Manufacturing-3rd edition. Asia: John Wiley 
& Sons. 
[4]. S. A. Coker, & Y. C.  Shin (1996). In-process control of surface roughness due to tool wear 
using a new ultrasonic system. Int. J. Mach. Tools Manufact., 36(3), pp. 411-422. 
[5]. B. Huang, J. C. Chen, & Y. Li (2008).  Artificial-Neural-Networks Based Surface 
Roughness Pokayoke System for End-Milling Operations. Journal of Neurocomputing, 71, 
pp. 544-549. 
[6]. J. C. Chen, & M. S. Lou (2000). Fuzzy-nets based approach to using an accelerometer for an 
in-process surface roughness prediction system in milling operation.  International Journal 
of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 13(4), pp. 358-368 
[7]. K. A. Risbood, U. S. Dixit, & A. D. Sahasrabudhe (2003). Prediction of surface roughness 
and dimensional deviation by measuring cutting forces and vibrations in turning, J. Mater. 
Process. Technol., 132 (1–3), pp. 203–214. 
[8]. S. N. Melkote, & A. R. Thangaraj (1994). An enhanced end milling surface texture model 
including the effects of radial rake and primary relief angles. Journal of Engineering for 
Industry, 116, pp. 166-174. 
[9]. Y. Jiao, S. Lei, Z.J. Pei, & E.S. Lee (2004). Fuzzy adaptive networks in machining process 
modeling: surface roughness prediction for turning operations. Int. J. Mach. Tool Manuf., 44 
(15), pp. 1643–1651. 
[10]. H. Chang, J. Kim, I. Kim, D.Y. Jang, & Dong C. Han (2007). In-process surface roughness 
prediction using displacement signals from spindle motion. Int. J. Mach. Tool Manuf., 47 
(6), pp. 1021–1026. 
[11]. B. Huang, & J.C. Chen (2003). An in-process neural network-based surface roughness 
prediction system using a dynamometer in end milling operations. Int. J. Adv. Manuf. 
Technol., 21, pp. 339–347. 
[12]. G. A. Stark, & K. S. Moon (1999). Modeling surface texture in the peripheral milling 
process using neural network, spline, and fractal methods with evidence of chaos. Journal 
of Engineering for Industry, 121, pp. 251-256. 
[13]. K. M. Tsai, and P. J. Wang (2001). Comparisons of Neural Network Models on Material 
Removal Rate in Electrical Discharge Machining. J. of Mat. Processing Tech., 117 (1-2), pp. 
111-124. 
 12
 
Figure 7. Architecture of the neural-fuzzy smart CNC machine 
 
 
. 
Yes
Good Tool 
Stop Machine 
Force sensors  
Machining 
Process 
Cutting force 
Machining parameters 
Neural-Fuzzy adaptive 
machining parameter 
control system 
No
Adaptive degree of 
machining parameters 
Desired Ra
d
a
p
a RR ≤
Neural-Fuzzy tool Monitoring 
system  
Broken/worn Tool 
Continue 
Neural-Fuzzy Ra Monitoring 
system 
Tool condition 
A Regression Neural Model for In-process Surface Roughness 
Monitoring in End Milling Operations 
PoTsang B. Huang1a, James C. Chen1b, Yuan-Tsan Jou1c  
1 Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, Chung-Yuan Christian University, 200 Chung 
Pei Rd, Chung Li 32023, Taiwan 
acorresponding author, pthuang@cycu.edu.tw, bjamesc@cycu.edu.tw,  cytjou@cycu.edu.tw 
Keywords: regression neural model, in-process surface roughness monitoring, end milling, neural 
networks  
 
Abstract. The key element of the in-process surface roughness monitoring system is the 
decision-making model, which is utilized to analyze the input factors and then to generate a proper 
output.  The success of the in-process monitoring system depends on the accuracy of the 
decision-making model. To increase the accuracy and reliability of model, it is important to reduce 
the variation of the inputs.  To achieve this objective, an integration of regression and neural 
network was developed as a decision-making model in this research. In this integrated model, the 
regression model was applied as a filter to sort the input variables into groups. Furthermore, the 
grouped data was implemented to train and to generate different neural networks models to reduce 
the affection of input variation and increase the accuracy of the monitoring system. The input 
variables was first filtered by the threshold of regression model, and then analyzed by different 
neural networks model based on the filtered result.  Finally, to evaluate the performance of the 
integrated model, the regression neural network and traditional neural networks were both 
developed for surface roughness monitoring system in an end milling operation to compare the 
accuracy of systems. 
Introduction 
Surface roughness is an important index of quality control in manufacturing processes. The off-line 
measurement using profilometer is always utilized to assess surface roughness of part quality.  
However, this off-line method was found to be very time-consuming and costly.  To eliminate the 
time consuming and save the cost, the in-process surface roughness monitoring system has been 
broadly investigated so the manufacturing processes and quality inspections could be done 
simultaneously. 
The in-process monitoring system can monitor and predict the surface roughness within cutting 
processes [1-3].  Furthermore, the in-process surface roughness (Ra) monitoring system has been 
used not only to predict the surface roughness, but also to diagnose the tool conditions [4]. 
Therefore, successfully developing an in-process Ra monitoring system would be more useful and 
efficient among in-process monitoring systems since it can not only predict cutting surface 
roughness, but also respond to the cutting tool conditions.  
The key element of the in-process Ra monitoring system is the decision-making model, which is 
utilized to analyze the input factors and then to generate a proper output. The success of the 
in-process Ra monitoring system depends on the accuracy of the model. The neural networks is one 
of the popular decision-making models applied in several domains, and has been applied for surface 
roughness monitoring in machining processes [5,6]. Normally, the input factors always consist of 
the controllable parameters, such as feed rate, and the uncontrollable variables, such as vibration of 
cutting processes. The variation of uncontrollable variables significantly affects the surface 
roughness and the accuracy of decision-making model generated by neural networks, and, 
consequently, the reliability of the in-process Ra monitoring system is reduced.   
To increase the accuracy and reliability of the system, one of the methods is to categorize the 
training data into several groups; therefore, the variation of training data in each group is reduced.  
Key Engineering Materials Vols. 419-420 (2010) pp 369-372
online at http://www.scientific.net
© 2010 Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland
  niFF
n
i pap
/)(
1∑ == ,          (1)   
where pF  is the resultant peak force of each cutting tooth in XY plane, n is the number of peak in 
certain cutting revolutions. 
The absolute average force in the Z direction ( azF ) was applied as another input factor and 
could be expressed as: 
   kjFF
k
j zaz
/)(
1∑ == ,          (2)    
where k is the total number of data within certain revolutions in this research. 
Finally, the training data set could be expressed as: 
 
  ];,,,,[ ,,, iaiaziapiii RFFdfS ,  for i = 1 to 255.     (3) 
 
Step 3. Develop the regression model with filter. In the training data set, the average 
resultant peak force was a wide range variable related to the surface roughness.  To reduce the 
influence of large variance and to increase the accuracy of the system, a regression model was 
developed to state the distribution of average resultant peak force related to the machining 
parameters, and listed as follow: 
 
  dfSFap 3210ˆ ββββ +++=           (4) 
 
The standard deviation of regression model was then discovered and applied as a threshold to 
filter the original training data set into different groups. The new training data sets can be expressed 
as follow: 
 
  ],ˆ|;,,,,[ ,,,,, σkFFRFFdfS iapiapiaiaziapiii ±≤ , and      (5) 
],ˆ|;,,,,[ ,,,,, σkFFRFFdfS iapiapiaiaziapiii ±> ,  for i = 1 to 255.  (6) 
 The k value was set as 1 in this case.  Therefore, the training data set was categorized into two 
groups. One was the value of average resultant peak force fell with σ1± of iapF ,ˆ , and it consists of 
175 data.  The remaining was set as the other group, which consists of 80 data.  
Step 4. Train the regression neural models. The PCN was applied to conduct the neural back 
propagation (BP) training to generate the weight between neurons for grouped training data sets 
obtained in Step 3. In the training process, the “learn-and-error” method was used to adjust the 
training parameters, such as the proportion of training and testing data, layers and neurons of the 
hidden levels, and the learning rate and momentum factor, until the optimal root mean square (RMS) 
error was achieved.  Since the original training data set has been categorized into two groups, two 
neural networks decision-making models for in-process Ra monitoring system were developed. 
Results 
A regression neural decision-making model for in-process Ra monitoring system in end milling 
operations was constructed.  To evaluate the performance of the regression neural model, the 
neural network model was also developed to compare with the integrated regression neural model. 
The training process of the neural network decision-making model was the same as Step 4 
mentioned above. However, 255 training data was used to train one neural model. Table 1 
summarized the results of both regression neural and neural networks models. From the results, the 
regression neural model has a better RMS error than the neural networks model in the training data 
set and has almost the same error in the testing, which indicated the regression neural model can 
provide a better accuracy for the in-process Ra monitoring system.  
Key Engineering Materials Vols. 419-420 371
  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2218-E-033-006 
計畫名稱 智慧型類神經模糊系統於銑床加工之即時表面粗糙度量測 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關/職稱 
黃博滄 
中原大學工業與系統工程系/助理教授 
會議時間/地點 自 98 年 9 月 24 日至 98 年 9 月 26 日 / 中國哈爾濱 
會議名稱 2009 International Conference on Advanced Design and Manufacturing (ADM) 
發表論文題目 (1). A regression neural model for in-process surface roughness monitoring in end milling 
operations. 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
由於台灣直飛哈爾濱的班次有限，在時間上的安排有所不易，因此本人於九月二
十四日上午搭乘華航班機離開台灣，先往香港轉機，並於當日下午抵達哈爾濱機場，
並於同日前往會場報到。大會已於當日正式開始，且於當晚設有晚宴，因此有機會與
來自美國、香港、英國與大陸等國的學者談話與交換意見。第二天大會上午有兩個時
段的學術論文討論，第一個時段，本人參加 Manufacturing Technology 的學術討論，
其間講員主要針對 automatic spraying，computer-aided milling parameters 等的
發展提出個人見解及交換心得。第二個時段，本人參加 Product design 的學術討論，
講員主要針對 3D laser scanning measurement，knowledge-based design system
等提出個人的研究心得，都具有深刻的啟發與迴響。下午的時段，本人報告所發表的
論文，並與參與者溝通討論論文內容與研究方法，並聽取不同學者的報告，對自己的
知識領域有很大的增長。本次研討會共收錄了 180 篇論文，在同一時段內有四個場次
同時進行，於二十四日及二十五日共有七個時段。二十六日主辦單位安排了 City 
Tour，讓所有的與會人士對哈爾濱的人文景觀及風俗民情有所認識，整個大會於二十
六日下午 City Tour 結束後圓滿落幕，本人由於航班的限制，一直等到二十七日才赴
哈爾濱機場搭機飛往香港隨後轉飛台灣。 
 
二、 與會心得 
非常感謝國科會能提供機會與補助，讓本人有機會參與這次的國際性研討會，同
時也藉此機會到國外參與盛會，與國內外許多學者專家共同探討，瞭解相關研究的最
新進展及本身研究的可改進之處，使自己的研究能更上層樓。由於此次舉辦的地點不
是台灣遊客常到的地點，使本人有機會體會哈爾濱的風俗民情，其間有機會參觀哈爾
濱大學的許多硬體設施，也是一項不錯的體驗。如果還有機會，希望能多參與此類型
的國際性研討會，提昇自己的研究視野。 
 
To achieve this goal, a regression model was applied as a filter to categorize the data.  The 
confidence interval of regression model worked as threshold to separate the data into different 
groups.  Each grouped data was trained by neural networks to become a decision-making model 
for the in-process Ra monitoring system in this research. In this integrated decision-making model, a 
regression model was applied to categorize the training data. Furthermore, the grouped data was 
analyzed and trained in different neural networks.  Since the set of the threshold in regression 
model reduced the variation of the input variables, it resulted in the increasing of accuracy of the 
system.   
Development of Regression eural Model for the In-process Ra Monitoring System  
The integration of regression and neural networks is to reduce the variation of the input variables 
for neural networks training.  A regression model worked as a data pre-processor to filter the data.  
The confidence interval of the regression model was applied as a threshold to categorize the data 
into different groups, and then the grouped data was trained to generate different neural network 
decision-making models.  The architecture of the regression neural model is shown in Figure 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data training is the most important process for neural networks decision-making model.  The 
selection of training data significantly influences the accuracy of model.  To reduce the variations 
of the wide range input variables, the data should be categorized first.  The principle of regression 
neural is to apply the regression analysis to set a threshold of the input variables and then based on 
the value of the variables, the input data will be analyzed in different neural models.  To develop 
the regression neural based in-process Ra monitoring system, the following steps were conducted. 
Step 1. Collect the training data. To develop the in-process Ra monitoring system, an 
experimental setup was conducted to collect data, including the hardware and software setup.  The 
hardware setup consisted of the computer numerical control (CNC) machining center for end 
milling operations, a dynamometer sensor for monitoring the uncontrollable cutting variables, a 
stylus profiler for measuring the surface roughness of each part off-line to obtain the Ra value, and a 
computer for analyzing the data, training the neural models and testing the in-process surface 
roughness monitoring system.  The software setup included the MiniTab applied for regression 
analysis, and the neural software, PCNeuron (PCN), was used to train the neural networks 
decision-making models.  
Step 2. Determine the input and output variables. To achieve an accurate monitoring system, 
it is necessary to provide sufficient data to train neural networks. From a statistical analysis, feed 
rate had the most significant influence on surface roughness, and spindle speed followed [6]. The 
experimental design consisted of different levels of spindle speed (1750, 2000, 2250, and 2500 
RPM), feed rate (6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, and 20 in/min), and depth of cut (0.04 and 0.08 inch), and 
there were a total of 255 data for training. 
Five input factors were used for training , which were spindle speed (S), feed rate (f), depth of 
cut (d), average resultant peak force ( apF ) in XY cutting plane, and absolute average force in the Z 
direction ( azF ). The output factor was surface roughness measured by the profilometer. The 
apF could be expressed as: 
Regression Inputs 
…
 
.. 
.. 
Output 
Output 
Neural networks 
threshold 
kσ 
kσ 
Figure 1. Architecture of the regression neural model 
 
370 Advanced Design and Manufacture II
