I. INTRODUCTION
Polyelectrolytes bear many ionizable groups, which dissociate in water and thus leave
charged groups on the polymer backbone and counterions in the solution. Synthetic poly-
electrolytes, such as sodium polyacrylate (NaPAA), are extensively used in industrial appli-
cations while natural polyelectrolytes, such as deoxyribose nucleic acid (DNA), have wide
biological functions. However, a salt-free polyelectrolyte solution remains one of the phys-
ical systems that are diﬃcult to understand [1-7], owing to the long-range nature of the
electrostatic interactions and their interplay with the polyelectrolyte conformation. When
a polyelectrolyte is dissolved in water, counterions are not distributed uniformly in the
solution but prefer to stay in the neighborhood of the oppositely charged polymer. The ex-
tent of counterions residing near the polyelectrolyte mediates how polymers interact among
themselves and thereby influence the physical properties of a polyelectrolyte solution.
The distribution of counterions around the charged object is a consequence of the com-
petition between the translational entropy and the electrostatic attraction [8-11]. At strong
electrostatic coupling, counterions are accumulated in the vicinity of the charged particle
with intrinsic charge Z. The decorated object (charged particle plus counterions) may be
regarded as a single entity which possesses an eﬀective charge Z∗. The eﬀective charge (in
absolute value) may be much smaller than the intrinsic charge, Z∗ ¿ Z. The degree of
ionization can then be defined as
α = Z∗/Z. (1)
It is conceptually easy to adopt the two-state scenario of counterions to study the behavior
of the polyelectrolyte solution. In the two-state model, counterions are imagined to be either
completely bound (condensed) on the polyelectrolyte or completely free [9-11]. In reality,
there exists a concentration profile of counterions around the polyelectrolyte and thus no
counterion exists in either of these phases. From the viewpoint of thermodynamics, the coun-
terion chemical potential is uniform everywhere in the polyelectrolyte solution and should
be used as an indicator for the counterion concentration in the bulk [5]. If an electrolyte
solution with the same counterion species shows the same counterion chemical potential as
that of the polyelectrolyte solution with intrinsic counterion concentration (complete disso-
ciation) ci, one can define the “free” counterion concentration in the polyelectrolyte solution
2
potential in the inner phase and more negative potential in the outer phase. Finally, the
electric potential diﬀerence balances the concentration diﬀerence and the thermodynamic
equilibrium will be reached. The chemical potential of sodium ion is then the same in the
outer and inner phases. By measuring the electric potential diﬀerence by potentiometry,
one is able to determine the concentration of sodium ion in the outer phase according to
the Nernst equation. If the electrostatic attraction is not significant, all counterions will be
completely released from the polyelectrolyte, then the measured counterion concentration
is close to the intrinsic counterion concentration (ci), which is equal to the concentration of
all charged repeated units for monovalent counterion (cm = ci). However, the electrostatic
attraction often plays an important role and keeps some counterions in the neighborhood of
polyelectrolytes. The concentration observed by ISE in the polyelectrolyte solution is purely
based on the counterion chemical potential. Although it denotes the so-called free counte-
rions, it is really corresponding to the concentration of an electrolyte solution (co) with the
same counterion chemical potential. Note that ci = Zcp and co = Z∗cp, where cp represents
the polymer concentration in terms of the number of polymers. As a result, the degree of
ionization is simply the ratio of the observed concentration to the intrinsic concentration,
which is usually less than one,
α = co/ci ≤ 1. (2)
In this paper, we measure the “free” counterion concentration directly in the salt-free
polyelectrolyte solution by ISE. The eﬀective charge or degree of ionization can then be
determined directly without resorting to any theoretical model. The degree of ionization
obtained by ISE is on the basis of the counterion chemical potential and will be compared to
those determined by osmometry and conductometry through simple theoretical models. The
eﬀective charge associated with polyelectrolytes is influence by a few physical factors. The
eﬀects of polyelectrolyte species (NaPAA, NaPSS, and PDDC), polyelectrolyte concentration
(dilute and semidilute regimes), polymer molecular weight, and dielectric constant of mixed
solvent (water and formamide) on the degree of ionization are examined. The experimental
results are also used to examining the existing theories, including the well-known Manning-
Oosawa counterion condensation model and the scaling approaches.
4
calibration.
Ion selective electrode has been used to obtain the activity coeﬃcients of ions which rep-
resent the non-ideality of the electrolyte solution. If the ion chemical potential is expressed
in terms of the intrinsic ion concentration (kBT ln ci), the deviation due to electrostatic in-
teractions is manifested by the activity coeﬃcient. In the present study the non-ideality
of the polyelectrolyte solution is represented by the apparent counterion concentration and
the eﬀective charge of polyelectrolyte, instead of activity coeﬃcients associated with both
counterion and polyelectrolyte. That is, the confusing concept of activity coeﬃcients for {ci,
Z} is circumvented by co and Z∗.
C. Conductivity and Osmotic Pressure Measurements.
The conductivity meter (MPC227) and an InLab 730 electrode, both fromMettler-Toledo
(Switzerland), were used to obtain the electric conductivity of polyelectrolyte solutions. All
measurements were conducted at 25◦ C using a FIRSTEK B-402L circulating water bath.
The osmotic pressures were measured by use of Advanced Micro Osmometer, model 3300
(USA). It operates based on the principle of freezing-point osmometry. The volume of the
sample is 20 µL. The calibration was performed by using the standard solution of 50 and 850
mOsm. The resolution is 1 mOsm, which is equivalent to 0.001 K freezing-point depression.
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Owing to the electrostatic attraction between polyelectrolytes and counterions, the ef-
fective charge associated with the polyelectrolyte is often less than the intrinsic charge in a
salt-free solution. Despite of the fact that the concept of counterion condensation is widely
used in describing the behavior of polyelectrolytes, the quantitative analysis of the eﬀective
charge or degree of ionization is scarce because of the lack of model-independent experi-
ments. In this study, the eﬀective charge or degree of ionization can be determined by the
direct measurement of the counterion concentration by ISE, which is on the basis of coun-
terion chemical potential. In accordance with such an operational definition of the degree
of ionization, we are able to make comparisons between theories and experiments.
When the polyelectrolyte concentration (monomer concentration cm) rises, the counterion
6
parameter for this infinitely long, charged rod,
ξ =
lB
λ
. (3)
The exact solution to the P-B equation is available [2,15] and indicates that the counterions
cannot be localized for ξ < 1 in the limit of infinite dilution. However, the charged rod
with ξ > 1 is able to “condense”a fraction of 1− ξ−1 of all counterions even when Rc →∞.
The transition takes place when both length scales are equal, λ = lB. Such counterion
condensation, referred to as “Manning condensation,” reduces (renormalizes) the eﬀective
charge spacing to λ∗ = lB and the rest of counterions remain not localized [10]. If we define
α = λ/λ∗ according to the scenario of Manning condensation, then the degree of ionization
is always one as ξ < 1 and is about 0.59 for single-stranded DNA and about 0.33 for both
NaPSS and NaPAA. Nonetheless, such a definition is not experimentally operational.
In the P-B theory, the counterion chemical potential is µ = zeψ(r) + kBT ln c(r), where
ψ and c denote the electric potential and counterion concentration, respectively. Since
βeψ ¿ 1 at r = Rc, the counterion chemical potential can be represented by the counterion
concentration at the cell boundary. As a consequence, the degree of ionization of the P-B
cylindrical cell model is α = c(r = Rc)/(λ−1/πR2c). Here the polymer concentration cm is
related to the cylindrical radius Rc by cm = λ−1/(πR2c). Using the exact P-B solution, the
degree of ionization is given by
α =
1 + γ2
2ξ
,
where γ relates to r0, Rc, and ξ by [2]
γ ln
Rc
r0
= tan−1
1
γ
+ tan−1
ξ − 1
γ
.
Note that the degree of ionization is equal to the osmotic coeﬃcient in this cylindrical cell
model [16]. In the asymptotic limit, ln(Rc/r0)À 1, the analytical expression for the degree
of ionization can be obtained according to Eq. (2),
α =
µ
1− ξ
2
¶
+
2(1− ξ)2
2− ξ
µ
r0
Rc
¶2(1−ξ)
, for ξ ≤ 1, (4)
and
8
the interaction of polyelectrolyte with counterions, it is based on an infinitely long, charged
rod. Because the electric surface potential diverges logarithmically with the length of the rod
(ψs ∼ lnL), the electrostatic energy gain is able to balance the counterion entropy loss for an
infinitely extended line immersed in an infinite domain. From the mathematical viewpoint,
the order of finding the limit of α is first L → ∞ and then V → ∞ (or c → 0). Since the
counterion concentration in the vicinity of the rod is always higher than that in the infinity,
the degree of ionization for an infinitely long, charged rod is less than unity even in the limit
of infinite dilution. In reality, the length of the polyelectrolyte is finite. For a charged object
with finite size L, such as a sphere, the potential energy of a counterion on the surface of
a sphere possessing charge Z is finite, ψs ∼ −Z/L. That is, an isolated sphere is unable to
bind a counterion at finite temperature. For an isolated polyelectrolyte (infinite dilution)
with finite length, the aforementioned facts indicate that the polyelectrolyte is unable to
bind any counterion, just like a charged sphere, and thus the eﬀective charge equals to the
intrinsic charge and α→ 1.
In reality, the counterion concentration is finite in all practical salt-free polyelectrolyte
solutions and thereby the counterion entropy is finite as well. Consequently, one anticipates
that charge renormalization (counterion condensation) takes place eventually when the elec-
trostatic energy gain (binding) overwhelms the counterion entropy gain (dissociation). As
the polymer concentration is increased, the entropy gain declines and the degree of ionization
is expected to decrease. A simple qualitative explanation for our experimental results can be
provided by using the two-phase approximation [17], which gives predictions qualitatively
consistent with Monte Carlo simulations [5]. One can treat the condensed and free counteri-
ons as two phases and assume that the two phases are in thermodynamic equilibrium. The
chemical potential of the free counterion is dominated by the translational entropy, thus
µf ' kBT lnφ, (8)
where φ is the volume fraction of the free counterion, φ ≈ cmα(πd3/6) with d representing
the counterion size. The chemical potential of the condensed counterion is the Coulomb
binding energy between the condensed counterion and the polyelectrolyte, thereby
µc ' −kBT (Zα) lBRg . (9)
10
charge Z. Nevertheless, the electrostatic attraction between the polyelectrolyte and the
counterion is enhanced because Rg grows slower than Z does with increasing Mw.
Figure 3 demonstrates the variation of the degree of ionization with the polymer molecular
weight for NaPAA with a specified concentration cm = 1.3 mM. If we adopt the two-
phase approximation, Eq. (11), to depict the molecular weight-dependence valid in the
dilute regime, the experimental results obtained by ISE can be reasonably represented by
α ∼ M−0.11w . In other words, the exponent associated with chain conformation is about
ν ≈ 0.89, which is generally expected to be close to 1.0 for a dilute, salt-free solution due to
strong repulsions among monomer repeated units.
C. Concentration-Insensitive Regime
For a polymer with the degree of polymerizationN , the crossover from dilute to semidilute
regime is characterized by a critical concentration c∗ ∼ N/R3g, where the overlapping of the
polymer chains takes place [18]. When c À c∗, the formation of a transient network in the
semidilute regime leads to the fact that physical properties of the polymer solution tend to
lose their molecular weight dependence. For NaPAA with Mw = 4.5 × 103 (N = 50) and
Mw = 1.8 × 104 (N = 200), the radii of gyration are evaluated about 14.6 Åand 46.7 Å,
respectively, based on all-atom molecular dynamics. In fact, it can be well represented by
Rg = aNν with a = 0.569 Åand ν = 0.812 for N = 25−200. In the simulations, the eﬀect of
water molecules is represented by the dielectric constant 80. The critical concentrations c∗
are thus estimated at 13 and 0.6 M, respectively. According to our experimental results for
the degree of ionization, the crossover from cm-dependent to cm-insensitive regime occurs at
about O(10) mM. Although c∗ might be less than the estimated critical concentration, we
still can conclude that the crossover concentration is much less than c∗ of polyelectrolytes
with lower molecular weight. This result indicates that the range of polyelectrolyte (NaPAA)
concentrations in our experiments is mostly within the dilute regime and the cm-insensitive
regime is not necessarily corresponding to the semidilute regime. Nevertheless, for higher
molecular weight NaPAA, NaPSS, or PDDC, some of the data points are in semidilute
solutions. In the following sections, we will compare the experimental results with the
existing theories for semidilute solutions.
12
Both the counterion condensation theories and the scaling concepts imply that the de-
gree of ionization is weakly dependent or independent on the polymer concentration. For
the weak-dependence, both approaches show that the degree of ionization is increasing as
cm increases. As shown in Figures 2(a)-2(c), at low enough polyelectrolyte concentration,
the degree of ionization declines with increasing cm and thus the aforementioned approaches
are not applicable in this dilute regime. On the other hand, above a certain polymer con-
centration, our experimental results do display a concentration-insensitive behavior despite
of the fact that we are unable to decide whether α is slowly increased or unchanged with
increasing cm. That is, for high enough polyelectrolyte concentration, there exists a regime
in which the eﬀective charges of the polyelectrolyte chains do not change significantly with
the polymer concentration. Consequently, most of the existing theories, e.g., counterion
condensation and scaling approach, may be valid in the so-called semidilute regime.
2. Eﬀect of Polymer Molecular Weight
The isotropic network is formed by polymers in a solution with cÀ c∗. In the semidilute
solution far above the overlap concentration, it is anticipated that the molecular weight-
dependence of the degree of ionization should be lost. However, Figure 2(a)-2(c) clearly
demonstrate that the degree of ionization declines with increasing the molecular weight in
the cm-insensitive regime. This molecular weight-dependent feature is absent in the afore-
mentioned theories applicable to the semidilute regime. As a result, this concentration-
insensitive regime may be considered in the condition that polymers are in contact (but not
yet interpenetrating). In fact, most of our experimental findings are qualitatively consis-
tent with the recent theoretical results obtained by the molecular dynamics simulations of
polyelectrolyte solutions [19].
In terms of osmotic coeﬃcient ϕ, Rubinstein et al. [19] found that it decreases with poly-
mer concentration in dilute solutions and increases with the polyelectrolyte concentration
above the overlap concentration. There is a minimum of osmotic coeﬃcient at the boundary
between these two regimes. However, ϕ is slowly changed approximately over an order of
magnitude in the vicinity of ϕmin. In general, the osmotic coeﬃcient declines with increas-
ing the degree of polymerization N for a given polymer concentration. The independence
of N is only observed as cm is far above the overlap concentration (see Figure 9(a) of ref.
14
about 0.25 to 0.71 for 30 mM NaPAA with Mw = 6 × 104. According to Eq. (11), α is
proportional to εr and the degree of ionization should increase to about 0.35 at most. This
consequence indicates that there must exist some important factors which are absent in the
simple primitive model for electrolyte solutions.
In the primitive model such as the P-B theory, the leading interactions among charged
entities are the long-ranged, Coulombic interactions. The solvent is simply represented by
a continuous medium of uniform dielectric constant εr. For systems comprising of the same
components, the primitive model may be a good choice to explain the physical eﬀects, such
as polymer molecular weight and concentration. Nonetheless, the short-ranged, specific in-
teractions among charged entities, such as van der Waals forces and hydrogen bonds, may
play important roles as well in comparing the degree of ionization between systems consisting
of diﬀerent components. Those eﬀects are generally manifested in the intrinsic counterion
chemical potential, µ0, in the total chemical potential, µ = µ0+ µel(x) + kBT ln c(x), where
µel(x) denotes the excess chemical potential due to electrostatic interactions and kBT ln c(x)
represents the contribution associated with counterion entropy. Consequently, possible ex-
planations for our experimental results as shown in Figure 4 is that the counterions like
formamide more than water molecule (counterion solubility). Moreover, polymer-solvent
interactions (solvent quality) may change the conformation (µel) and therefore aﬀect the
degree of ionization [5,23].
E. Comparison among Potentiometry, Osmometry and Conductometry
The degree of ionization determined by osmometry or conductometry is model-dependent.
That is, the measured quantities, i.e., osmotic pressure or conductivity, are related to the
free counterion concentration co through the adopted, theoretical models, in which some as-
sumptions have often been made. On the other hand, no theories are required for ISE since
the counterion concentration is directly obtained by potentiometry. As a result, we can use
the degree of ionization obtained by ISE as a correct result to examine those obtained by
osmometry and conductometry. For the concentration-insensitive regime, α is essentially a
constant and the observed counterion concentration grows linearly with polymer concentra-
tion cm. If the measured, physical quantities Ω (such as osmotic pressure) are proportional
to the free counterion concentration, i.e., Ω ∝ co, a linear relation between Ω and cm should
16
According to the definition of free counterion concentration, Eq. (16) gives that c(R) = co.
Using this result in Eq. (15) indicates that the van Hoﬀ’s law is still applicable in the
semidilute regime and the osmometry method yields the degree of ionization the same as
the potentiometry method. It is worth mentioning again that the polymer contribution
to the osmotic pressure may become important at cm ≈ O(100c∗) according to molecular
dynamics simulations [19].
Electric conductivity is originated from the movement of charged entities in response to
an external electric field. The overall electric conductivity is due to the sum of contributions
of all the charge carriers in the system [6,12,24]. On the basis of a simple additive rule for
free counterions and polyelectrolytes, the electric conductivity can be written as
κ = mczceco +mpZ
∗ecp
where e denotes the elementary charge andmi represents the mobilities of counterion (c) and
polyelectrolyte (p). In terms of the number of polymer, the polyelectrolyte concentration
cp is related to cm by cp = cm/N . Since zc = 1 and Z∗cp = αZ(cm/N) = co, the electric
conductivity becomes
κ = (mc +mp)eco = α(mc +mp)ecm. (17)
If the mobilities are independent of the polymer concentration in the concentration-
insensitive regime, a linear relation between conductivity κ and polymer concentration cm
can be obtained. Note that this assumption is only valid in the dilute limit. Figure 6 illus-
trates that the variation of κ with cm can be well fitted by diﬀerent straight lines for diﬀerent
molecular weights. The experimental results for DNA sequencing show that it is diﬃcult to
separate DNA with diﬀerent lengths by electrophoresis in free solutions. Consequently, it is
reasonable to assume that the dependence of the electrophoretic mobility on polyelectrolyte
molecular weight (length) is pretty weak. According to Eq. (17) for the same polymer con-
centration, the molecular weight-dependence comes mainly from the degree of ionization,
i.e.,
κ1
κ2
∼= α1
α2
. (18)
On the basis of Eq. (18), the method of conductometry qualitatively reflects the essential
18
solution. This direct yet simple approach employs ion-selective electrode based on counte-
rion chemical potential. The well-known ISE is the pH meter for hydrogen ion concentration.
Since the ion-selective membrane separating the ISE from the bulk phase allows the passage
of counterions only, the electric potential diﬀerence is build up to balance the counterion
concentration diﬀerence at thermodynamic equilibrium. By measuring the electric poten-
tial with potentiometry, the counterion concentration can then be determined based on the
Nernst equation.
The degree of ionization is a consequence of the competition between electrostatic at-
traction and counterion entropy. In accordance with the variation of the degree of ion-
ization with the polymer concentration, two concentration regimes can be clearly identi-
fied, concentration-dependent (dilute) and concentration-insensitive regimes. In the dilute
regime, increasing polymer concentration results in a decrease in counterion entropy and
increasing polymer molecular weight leads to an increase in electrostatic attraction. Conse-
quently, the degree of ionization declines. These results are consistent with the prediction
by recent Monte Carlo simulations and can be qualitatively explained by a simple model of
two-phase approximation. Note that the well-known Manning-Oosawa counterion conden-
sation is not applicable in this regime because the length of the polyelectrolyte is finite in
reality.
In the concentration-insensitive regime, the eﬀective charge of the polyelectrolyte chain
does not change substantially with the polymer concentration. The counterion condensation
models which are based on an infinitely long, charged rod and the scaling approaches which
adopt the semidilute concept of neutral polymer solutions are extensively used to explain
the behavior of polyelectrolyte solutions without added salt. Those theories predict that the
degree of ionization is weakly dependent or independent on the polymer concentration. For
the case of weak-dependence, the degree of ionization grows slowly as the polymer concen-
tration is increased. Our experimental results are unable to decide whether the degree of
ionization is unchanged or slowly increased with the polymer concentration. Although most
of the existing theories can elucidate the existence of the concentration-insensitive regime,
they are unable to account for the molecular-weight dependence of the degree of ionization
observed in our ISE experiments. Nevertheless, the recent molecular dynamics simulations
of multichain systems calculate osmotic coeﬃcients which display behavior qualitatively
consistent with our experimental results for the degree of ionization.
20
[1] C. F. Anderson and M. T. Jr. Record, Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biophys. Chem., 19, 423 (1990);
R. Bacquet and P. Rossky, J. Phys. Chem. 88, 2660 (1984); D. Bratko and D. Dolar, J. Chem.
Phys. 80, 5782 (1984); H. L. Gordon and J. P. Valleau Mol. Sim., 14, 361 (1995).
[2] M. Deserno, C. Holm, and S. May, Macromolecules 33, 199 (2000). M. Deserno and C. Holm, in
Electrostatic Eﬀects in Soft Matter and Biophysics (Kluwer Academic Publishers, Netherlands,
2001); H., Wennerström, B. Jönsson, and P. Linse, J. Chem. Phys. 76, 4665 (1982).
[3] T. Zhou and S. B. Chen, J. Chem. Phys. 124, 034904 (2006); T. Zhou and S. B. Chen, J.
Chem. Phys. 122, 124905 (2005).
[4] S. Liu and M. Muthukumar, J. Chem. Phys. 116, 9975 (2002).
[5] T.-Y. Wang, T.-R. Lee, Y.-J. Sheng, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Phys. Chem. B 109, 22560 (2005).
[6] F. Bordi, C. Cametti, and T. Gili, Phys. Rev. E 66, 021803 (2002).
[7] Li Wang and V. A. Bloomfield, Macromolecules 23, 804 (1990).
[8] W. L. Hsin, T.-Y. Wang, Y.-J. Sheng, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Chem. Phys. 121, 5494 (2004).
[9] F. Oosawa, J. Polym. Sci. 23, 421 (1957).
[10] G. S. Manning, J. Chem. Phys. 51, 924 (1969).
[11] F. Oosawa, Polyelectrolytes (Marcel Dekker, New York, 1971).
[12] F. Bordi, R. H. Colby, C. Cametti, L. De Lorenzo, T. Gili, J. Phys. Chem. B, 106, 6887
(2002).
[13] F. Bordi; C. Cametti, J. S. Tan, D. C. Boris, W. E. Krause, N. Plucktaveesak, and R. H.
Colby, Macromolecules, 35, 7031 (2002).
[14] C. C. Hsiao, T.-Y. Wang, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Chem. Phys. 122, 144702 (2005).
[15] A. V. Deshkovski, S. Obukhov, and M. Rubinstein, Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 2341 (2001).
[16] M. Deserno, C. Holm, J. Blaul, M. Ballauﬀ, and M. Rehahn, Eur. Phys. J. E 5, 97 (2001).
[17] S. L. Heilman-Miller, D. Thirumalai, and S. A. Woodson, J. Mol. Biol. 306, 1157 (2001).
[18] P. G. de Gennes, Scaling Concepts in Polymer Physics (Cornell University Press, Ithaca,
1993).
[19] Q. Liao, A. V. Dobrynin, and M. Rubinstein, Macromolecules 36, 3399 (2003); A. V. Dobrynin
and M. Rubinstein, Prog. Polym Sci. 30, 1049 (2005).
[20] P. G. de Gennes, P. Pincus, R. M. Velasco, and F. Brochard, F. J. Phys. (Paris) 37, 1461
22
FIGURE CAPTIONS
Figure 1., Typical variation of the degree of ionization (α) with the polymer concentration
(cm) for three diﬀerent polyelectrolytes with approximately the same degree of polymer-
ization N = 2500. The polymer concentration is expressed in terms of monomer repeated
units.
Figure 2., The variation of the degree of ionization with the polymer concentration for
diﬀerent molecular weights. The counterion concentrations are measured by ion-selective
electrode for (a) NaPAA; (b) NaPSS; (c) PDDC.
Figure 3., The variation of the degree of ionization with the polymer molecular weight for
NaPAA with polymer concentrations cm = 1.3 and 100 mM.
Figure 4., The variation of the degree of ionization with the concentration of formamide in
the water/formamide mixture for 30 mM NaPAA with Mw = 6× 104.
Figure 5., The variation of the osmotic pressure (Π/kBT ) with the polymer concentration
for diﬀerent molecular weights. (a) NaPAA; (b) NaPSS; (c) PDDC.
Figure 6., The variation of the electric conductivity with the polymer concentration (Na-
PAA) for diﬀerent molecular weight. Mw = 1200 and 3000 in the inset.
24
cm (mM)
0.1 1 10 100 1000
α
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
NaPAA (3K)
NaPAA (15K)
NaPAA (60K)
NaPAA (225K)
Figure 2(a)
cm (mM)
0.1 1 10 100 1000
α
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
PDDC (100-200 K)
PDDC (400-500 K)
Figure 2(c)
Formamide (wt%)
0 20 40 60 80 100
α
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
30 mM  NaPAA (60K)
Formamide (εr ~ 110)water (εr ~ 80)
Figure 4
cm (mM)
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
Π 
/ 
k B
T
  
(m
O
sm
)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
70K
1000K
0.54
0.59
Figure 5(b)
