 II
中、英文摘要及關鍵詞 
 
(一)中文摘要 
關鍵詞：互動式語音應答、SIP、視訊會議、網際網路語音服務、網頁式電話. 
 
網頁式電話對網際網路語音電話的使用者和業者而言，網頁式電話是一個非常吸引人
的方法。使用者只需利用瀏覽器和網路連線便可在任何時間、任何地點使用網際網路語音
電話的服務。本計畫利用開放式軟體建立一低成本的網際網路電話系統，提供網頁式電
話、語音服務、視訊會議、立即訊息和後付式/預付式服務。我們亦利用開放軟體，建立
一套互動式語音應答系統，提供預付式服務的使用者查詢及增補餘額的服務。最後，本系
統非常容易安裝與架設，故適於大專院校、中小企業公司等單位使用。 
 
(二)英文摘要 
Keywords：IVR, SIP, Video Conferencing, VoIP, Web-based Phone 
The web-based phone is an attractive solution for VoIP users and the operators. A VoIP user 
only requires a web browser and an internet connection to use the services at anytime, 
anywhere. In this project, freeware is used to build up a low-cost VoIP platform providing the 
web phone, voice communication, video conferencing, instant messaging and postpaid/prepaid 
services. An interactive voice response (IVR) is also installed to interact with the prepaid users 
for querying their balance and recharging. As a final remark, our system can be easily installed 
and established in universities, colleges and small companies with minimum cost. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 IV
Designing a Web-based Phone to Support Video Conferencing and the IVR 
System with Freeware over VoIP Networks 
Wei-Zu Yang, Tai-Liang Chen and Po-Chou Chen 
Dept. of Comp. Sci & Info. Engr., Asia University 
Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
wzyang@asia.edu.tw,{tlchen0619, ap889888}@gmail.com 
 
 
Abstract 
The web-based phone is an attractive solution for 
VoIP users and the operators. A VoIP user only 
requires a web browser and an internet connection 
to use the services at anytime, anywhere. In this 
paper, freeware is used to build up a low-cost VoIP 
platform providing the web phone, voice 
communication, video conferencing, instant 
messaging and postpaid/prepaid services. An 
interactive voice response (IVR) is also installed to 
interact with the prepaid users for querying their 
balance and recharging. As a final remark, our 
system can be easily installed and established in 
universities, colleges and small companies with 
minimum cost. 
 
Keywords － IVR, Video Conferencing, VoIP, 
Web-based Phone. 
1. Introduction 
Due to the low-cost and the convenience of 
Internet, the number of people who use VoIP (Voice 
over IP) services is growing rapidly. Many user 
agents (UAs) [6, 7, 13, 15, 16, 27] are freely 
provided to encourage customers to use the 
fascinating services. For example, Skype is one of 
the most used VoIP UA. The number of Skype users 
is over 100 millions in the world [10] and the user 
base is growing at a rate of about 6 Million users 
per month [1]. 
Table 1 compares the functions of these UAs. As 
shown by the table, instant messaging and video 
communication have become indispensable 
functions of a UA. Although these UAs are free, 
each user must join the corresponding member 
groups before using the VoIP services. For the 
security reason, lots of companies forbid their 
employees using these UAs while they are working.
Table 1. Comparisons of the functions of the UAs 
 
 
Inc. 
 
Services 
Microsoft 
MSN YAHOO Google Skype Gogonet Seednet 
Product MSN Messenger Messenger Google Talk Skype GogoTalk 
Wagaly 
TelTel 
Interface Soft. Web Soft. Soft. Soft. Soft. Soft. 
IM O O O O O O O 
Audio O X O O O O O 
Video O X O X O O O 
Dialout X X X X O O O 
 6
 
software is complex and the cost of an IVR is too 
expensive for the campus and small companies. In 
this paper, the freeware－IVR with Magic Flow [17] 
is used to build our IVR system. This software is 
developed by PhoneBazooka [14]. It is simple to 
use and has abundance of features such as 
executing inbound/outbound IVR, VoiceXML text 
to speech, playing voice files and recording the 
user’s voice to the hard disk. It can support 48 lines 
and can integrate with the voice modems and 
dialogic cards. The IVR with Magic Flow uses 
visualized tree view to help the developer to build 
the voice streams. Besides, it can access databases 
such as Microsoft Access, SQL server, MySQL and 
Oracle. It can also provide customized services by 
using the VBScript or the JavaScript. 
The paper is organized as follows. Section 3 
describes the architecture of our prepaid VoIP 
platform. Section 4 shows the architecture of the 
web-based phone and a demo of the video 
conferencing service. Section 5 describes the tree 
flow in IVR with Magic Flow for the IVR system. 
The conclusions are given in Section 6. 
3. Prepaid VoIP system platform 
Fig. 1 shows the architecture of our VoIP 
platform. The platform consists of 
hard/soft/web-based phones, a SIP proxy 
server/media server, a PSTN gateway, an IVR 
server, a database and the PSTN/mobile networks. 
The SIP proxy server/media server contains the 
SER (SIP Express Router) software [21], the 
B2BUA (Back-To-Back User Agent) software [24] 
and the SEMS (SIP Express Media Server) software 
[20]. The proxy server offers call control and call 
authorization functions. The media server provides 
audio conferencing services.  
The SER has all the functions as a proxy, a 
registrar and a redirect server. It has very stable 
performance and many features (e.g., SMS gateway, 
SIMPLE2 Jabber gateway, RADIUS/syslog 
accounting and authorization, status monitoring). 
The B2BUA can act as both a SIP user agent 
server (UAS) and a SIP user agent client (UAC). In 
our VoIP platform, the B2BUA is used as a prepaid 
call controller. It forwards a prepaid call to the 
RADIUS server for authorizing. The RADIUS 
server checks if the subscriber’s credit is sufficient 
to make a prepaid call. 
The SEMS provides the audio mixing function. 
When users start the video conferencing service, 
their voices are mixed by the SEMS and are 
transmitted to their UAs. 
In our VoIP system, FreeRADIUS software [5] is 
used as our RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial 
In User Service) server to provide authentication, 
authorization and billing functions [3, 9]. It is 
selected not only because it is free but also it has 
been proved to have a very high compatibility with 
the MySQL database and the PSTN gateway. The 
MySQL database stores all prepaid/postpaid call 
detail records (CDRs) and the users＇profiles. 
4. Video conferencing with the web-based 
phone 
In this section, we first introduce the architecture 
of the web-based phone. Next, a flowchart is used 
to describe the service flow of video conferencing. 
Finally, a video conferencing demo is shown in 
Section 4.3. 
 
4.1 Architecture of a web-based phone 
Fig. 2 shows the architecture of the web-based 
phone. The architecture includes the client, a web 
server and a SIP proxy server. 
 
Figure 2: Architecture of the web-based phone 
• Client： 
 VIII
 
Figure 3. The flow of the video conferencing 
4.3 A demonstration of video conferencing 
Fig. 4 shows the web interface when a subscriber 
logs in to use the web-based conferencing services. 
The subscriber can use the VoIP call (PC-to-PC or 
PC-to-phone), video call (PC-to-PC) and instant 
messaging (PC-to-PC) services. The “DialOut＂ 
button on the top of the left enables the subscriber 
to make a PC-to-phone call. The left block is the 
friend list. A subscriber can insert or remove his/her 
friend’s ID from the list. The middle block shows 
the contents of instant messaging when a subscriber 
uses the IM service. By double-clicking on the ID 
of his/her friend, the subscriber can easily use the 
audio, video and IM services. 
 
Figure 4. The web interface of web-based 
conferencing services 
Fig. 5 shows the web page when a subscriber is 
using the web-based video conferencing service. 
The subscriber selects three IDs and clicks on the 
“Conference” button under the friend list. The 
initiator of the video conferencing can start the 
conferencing service by clicking two middle 
buttons of the page－“Conference_Audio＂ and 
“Conference_Video”. 
 
Figure 5. The web page when a subscriber is using 
the web-based video conferencing service 
 X
prompted to input the number of a prepaid card. 
After receiving the card number, the IVR interacts 
with the database through the “validate prepaid 
card number＂ node to verify the card number. If 
the card number exists, then the credit can be 
recharged through the “add money in database” 
node. At last, the subscriber exits the service by 
pressing “9＂ key. 
 
Figure 9. Sub-flow 2 
• Sub-flow 3： 
The Magic Flow inserts an error handling 
process as long as the IVR asks the subscriber to 
press a key. As Fig. 10 shows, sub-flow 3 
corresponds to the Step 2 to Step 7 in Fig. 6. If the 
subscriber’s input is invalid, then the “GOTO 
LOOP ＂  event will be triggered to ask the 
subscriber to input the required information again. 
 
 
Figure 10. Sub-flow 3 
Fig. 11 shows the line states in the IVR. With this 
table, the system administrator can know the line 
usages at any time. 
 
Figure 11. Line states in the IVR system 
6. Conclusions 
In this paper, freeware is used to build a low-cost 
VoIP platform providing the web phone, voice 
communication, video conferencing, instant 
messaging and postpaid/prepaid services. An IVR is 
also installed to interact with the prepaid users for 
querying their balance and recharging. The 
visualized tree view in IVR with Magic Flow is 
used to build up voice streams and work flows for 
the IVR system. Finally, our system can both be 
easily installed and be a good example of providing 
enhanced VoIP services in universities and small 
companies. 
 
8. References 
