1中文摘要
循序決策通常是一個非常複雜的決策過程，特別是在評估目標總數增加時，其複雜度
更是容易超出人類決策的能力，然而，在評估的過程中，由於受評估的對象通常無法再重
新審視，因此，更增加了決策上的難度。本計劃將利用貝氏推論網路來增加決策者的效能，
使用這種機率推論模式，可以讓決策者在面臨多種各有所長的待評估選擇之目標時，能夠
作出較有效率與更一致性的決策出來，透過本計劃所提出的四個使用貝氏網路的建構步
驟，除可彈性解決當部份決策限制無法被滿足時，決策者可以釋放不具顯著之決策屬性，
而有效地找到替代解之外，並可以利用可彈性調整之網路拓樸，來協助學習評估過程中之
知識經驗的累積，本計劃亦實際發展出決策支援系統雛型，以驗證模式之有效性。
關鍵詞：循序決策問題、彈性限制滿足模式、貝氏推論網路
3INTRODUCTION
While making decisions, the structures of decision problems would result in various solution
qualities which are often determined by whether decision makers can employ appropriate models
to present the decision procedures. While confronted with unstructured decision problems,
decision makers cannot establish exact models to present and solve them, wherein systematic
analysis methods can be employed to help evaluate alternatives and generate most practical
solutions among them(Turban and Aronson, 2001). However, particular decision alternatives
present sequentially or at some particular order which would force decision makers to compare
all the alternatives based on their utilities after the end of such sequential presentations. For
example, while interviewing all candidates for assigning a leader in a team, the board should be
confronted with any possible presentation order. At the end of interviews, a new leader should be
decided since the comparisons had been made through the procedures. Furthermore, the decisions
will differ since numbers of presentation order would happen and then influence the comparison
procedures. Such effects on the decision makers’ opinions and evaluations with particular
presentation order are proposed by Tversky(1977) which are denoted as order effects or
direction-of- comparison effects. More particularly, multi- information resources present their
information sequentially or simultaneously and then, decrease the decision qualities due to the
complexity of comparisons among all the alternatives. After all the alternatives show up, the
decision makers often cannot retrieve such information again while generating final decisions and
then order effect would play the main role to lead the decision quality, which is a kind of
sequential decision problem. Under such problem, since the retrieval of information and
comparisons of alternatives incur operational cost, modeling sequential decision procedures can
help to trade- off the cost and values of retrieving relative information (Mussi, 2002).
While evaluating the decision alternatives or information values, decision makers or models
often rely on their preferences, which will be denoted as Multi- attribute decision problem.
However, such problem usually inherits conflict preferences or attributes and then complicates
the decision making procedures. Since the solution will be generated with the best combination of
various preferences, many researches employ expected utilities of decision makers to help
evaluating the performance (Barrick and Spilker, 2003). Under such manner, the ability of
Probabilistic Reasoning can facilitate the decision evaluation process, which utilizes several
probabilistic models, such as decision tree and Bayesian belief network (BBN), to offer an
efficient way to evaluate the alternatives and solve multi- attribute problems. However, since the
topologies of BBNs can present qualitative and quantitative factors, employing such probabilistic
model can facilitate to make decisions and analyze reliabilities (Hendler, 1999). On the other
hand, observing the topologies of BBNs can also help decision makers to figure out how are the
solutions generated.
In the case of sequential decision problems, since the decision makers often employ their
expected utilities to evaluate the decision alternatives, such utilities also formulate the decision
makers’ preference profiles, and then turn out to be fundamental solution limitations. While
evaluating alternatives, such fundamental limitations should be considered to be satisfied as well
as possible and the scope of reasonable solutions would also be narrowed down at the same time.
However, while employing such decision makers’ preferenceprofiles to evaluate all the
alternatives sequentially, all the limitations cannot be guaranteed to be satisfied. Furthermore, the
candidate alternative targets cannot be recalled after they show up. Under such manner, the
proposed BBN based decision support system in this study devotes to involve the concepts of
flexible constraint satisfaction (FCS) in order to focus on the most important limitations and
provide the tolerance during making decisions. With the explicit topologies of BBN, the decision
makers can easily employ to evaluate during runtime, and find the most satisficing solutions even
though without satisfying all the limitations exhibited. Such concepts of FCS can help to facilitate
the efficiency of decision making and dramatically decrease the incurred cost (Dubois and
Fortemps, 2005).
Above all, this study devotes to develop a decision support system based on Bayesian Belief
Networks in order to construct the problem of Multi-epoch sequential decision-making. During
5have a solid method to find the exact utility functions for each decision maker. Under such
manner, the proposed model in this study will employ Bayesian Belief Network to compensate
such weakness and try to refine the decision quality of sequential problems.
In addition to employ BBN to model such sequential problems, the information quality still
also influences the order effect and is considered in this study. Some researches tried their best to
offer sufficient information through decision procedures, and further evaluate the impact of
different information quantities over the decision quality. Most of them supposed the decision
makers lack of complete information, i.e. the comparisons can only be processed between the
current one and its preceding one. Under such manner, the evaluation at each stage cannot
involve all the preceding alternatives except the latest one presented (Mármol et al., 2002; Çelen
and Kariv, 2004). Although Mármol et al. employed linear combinations over the decision
maker’s utilities to evaluate the alternatives, they still assumed sets of boundaries with parts of
the available information or generate relative importance among decision variables to find the
solutions. In other words, their proposed system cannot present the exact preference profiles, and
then possess biases while making decisions. Lack of an exact model for presenting decision
makers’preference profiles are a critical drawback while solving sequential decisions, especially
in multi-attributes decisions. Therefore, in this study the abilities of BBN for presenting
probabilistic reasoning with quantitative and qualitative factors are employed to leverage the
decision qualities. Using the topologies of BBNs can easily present the decision maker’s expected
utility and evaluate the alternative sequentially.
There is much literature devotes to facilitate sequential decision problem solving, and most of
them regard it as a generalization of Best Choice Problem (BCP). Both concepts of them are very
similar. In 1960, the structure of Secretary Problem that Martin Gardner proposed is regarded as
the earliest best choice problem (Ferguson, 1989). Such sequential decision problem is under the
situation that several applicants apply for one secretary position and one manager interviews
them sequentially. There are seven assumptions as follows (Stein et al., 2003):
1. The numbers of alternatives are limited and known at the beginning of the decision
process.
2. Only one alternative can be selected at the end of decision procedures.
3. All the alternatives present sequentially and the decision maker makes his judgment
one after another.
4. All the alternatives will have their corresponding rating, and there is no any tie at the
end of the procedures.
5. All the ratings are based on the relative qualitative comparisons, rather than the
quantitative utility evaluations.
6. While each alternative presents sequentially, the decision maker should decide
whether to accept. As long as the alternative is decided to be rejected, it cannot be
recalled or be accepted any more.
7. Only when the best alternative has been selected, the decision making is then regarded
as success.
As the last assumption holds, the sequential decision making will be transferred to be the best
choice problem. Currently, there is much literature that tried to release the above assumptions and
generalize the best choice problem. Among them, employing group interview method is the
intention to release the third and sixth assumptions above (Chun et al., 1994; Chun, 1998, 2000,
2001). In those studies, dynamic planning methods are used to facilitate the decision choice of
group interviews, and also to generate a single best choice at the end of the interviews. The
applications of such researches can embody several practical problems, such as the selections of
focus customers, job interviews and positions matching problem, etc. However, for the reasons of
such decision problems should involve the evaluations and comparisons of several qualitative and
quantitative attributes, several researches try to employ numerous methods to improve the
decision efficiency. Holloway and White III (2003) proposed a problem mining mechanism to
help improve sequential decision quality. While making the decisions sequentially, such
mechanism will help to find more critical problems with the ways of querying relative and direct
information, which would leverage the successful possibilities. On the other hand, employing
7alternative is then evaluated with the other BBN, which will employ extra (p-m) factors and
generate final decision on the value of T.
Figure 2: Whole configuration of Sequential DSS
2. Adapt the topologies of BBNs with the ways of flexibly constraint satisfactions
The constraints or limitations in the sequential decision problems are retrieved from the
decision makers’ preference profiles. Such constraints or limitations are elicited and transfered to 
be configurations of BBNs. In other words, the topologies of BBNs are generated from decision
maker’s preference profiles and wil help to perform the evaluation tasks. Since the topologies of 
BBNs can embody both qualitative and quantitative factors, the evaluation targets and intentions
can be modeled easily and efficiently with such probabilistic networks. Under such manner, the
adaptively releasing some insignificant preferences or constraints will then be performed over the
evaluation probabilistic distribution of each factor. Given a threshold,δm, apply in equation (1) to
help recognize the significance of the evaluation factor fm. The values of thresholds are
determined based on the evaluation attitudes of decision makers.

 ,min
max
m
m
m
fp
fp
if  then, fm is determined to be significant (1)
Therefore, if the equation above is not satisfied, the evaluation factor will then be determined
as insignificant and should be trimmed off in order to facilitate the decision making. That is, the
set of evaluation factors will be decreased and the observations at this initial stage will only
transfer those remaining factors to sequential DSS, illustrated in figure 2.
3. Employing fundamental observation factors to trigger evaluations of BBNs
As presented in figure 1, the decision maker will observe m evaluation factors at the initiation,
and then generate m evaluation values about the probabilistic distributions of em with respective
to each factor. The evaluation of each factor is produced by BBN, and it follows the characteristic
of conditional independence which is given as equation (2).
    ParentChildeeeeooop mmjmi ,,,,,,,, 12121  (2)
Since the topology of each BBN has been assumed to be elicited, following equation (2) can
produce the probabilistic distribution for the evaluation variable emj for factor fm, where (mi+mj)
equals to the total numbers of variable nodes in mth factor. After producing the evaluation
distribution for each evaluation factor, such set of distributions will be regarded as the
observation input of the entire sequential decision support system, which is denoted as a black
circle and illustrated in figure 2. The evaluation values of m factors that decision maker judged
will then trigger the DSS BBN and eventually generate the final decision results, which are
produced by function (3). Particularly, the evaluation factors in step 2 will be trimmed based on
whether they present significant evidences. In other words, the set of f1 to fm will be retained only
the significant factors according to the threshold satisfaction in equation (1)..
    ParentChildTffffffp pmmm ,,,,,,,, 2121  (3)
4. Selecting the most outstanding decision alternative to be the best choice
From the above three steps, the sequential DSS now can generate the final evaluations over
the target variable node, T. Since the distribution of T will be produced with BBN, equation (4)
can be applied and help to find the best choice. For details, n alternatives, i.e. a1, a2,… , an, will
BBN Decision Support
Evaluation Result
Appear Sequentially
Decision Alternatives
Evaluating Factors
Initial Judgments generated by BBN
Final Evaluation of Target Decision, T
9and Humans, Vol. 28, Iss.5, pp. 629-636, 1998.
Bruin, Wandi Bruine de and Gideon Keren, “Order effects in sequentially judged options due to
the direction of comparison”, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processs, Vol.92,
pp.91-101, 2003.
Çelen, Bogachan and Shachar Kariv,”Observational learning under imperfect information”,
Games and Economics Behavior, Vol.47, pp.72-86, 2004.
Chun, Y.H., H. Moskowitz and R.D. Plante,”Dynamic-programming formulation of the group
interview problem with a general utility function”, European Journal of Operational Research,
Vol.78, pp.81-92,1994.
Chun, Y.H.,”Selecting the best choice in the full information group interview problem”,
European Journal of Operational Research, Vol.119, pp.635-651, 1998.
Chun, Y.H.,”Sequential Search and selection problem under uncertainty”, Decision Sciences,
Vol.23, pp.627-648, 2000.
Chun, Y.H.,”Optimal partitioning of groups in selecting the best choice”, Computers and
Operations Research, Vol.28, pp.1367-1386, 2001.
Dubois, D. and Ph. Fortemps,”Selecting preferred solutions in the minimax approach to dynamic
programming problems under flexible constraints”, European Journal of Operational
Research, Vol.160,pp.582-598,2005.
Ferguson, T.S.,”Who solved the secretary problem?”, Statistical Science, Vol. 4,pp.
282-296,1989.
Hendler, J.,” Making Sense Out of Agents”, IEEE intelligent Systems, Vol.14, Iss.2, pp.32-37,
1999.
Holloway, Hillary A. and Chelsea C. White III,”Question selection for multi-attribute
decision-aiding”, European Journal of Operational Research, Vol.148, pp.525-533, 2003.
Houston, D.A. and S.J. Sherman,”Cancellation and focus: The role of shared and unique features
in the choice process”, Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, Vol.31, pp.357-378, 1995.
Houston, D.A., S.J. Sherman and S.M. Baker, ”The influence of unique features and direction of
comparison on preferences”, Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, Vol.25, pp.121-141,
1989.
Jacobs, Robert A., “Methods for Combining Experts’ Probability Assessments”, Neural
Computation, Vol. 7, pp.867-888, 1995.
Jensen, Finn V., Bayesian Networks and Decision Graphs, Springer, New York, 2001.
Jensen, F.V., S.L., Lauritzen and K.G. Olesen,” Bayesian updating in causal probabilistic
networks by local computations”, Computational Statistics Quarterly, vol. 4, pp.269-282,
1990.
Jiroušek, Radim and Nicholas Kushmerick,” Constructing probabilistic models”, International
Journal of Medical Informatics, Vol. 45, pp.9-18, 1997.
Kullback, E. T., Information Theory and Statistics. Wiley, New York, 1959.
Kontkanen, P., P. Mylymaki, T. Silander, H. Tirri and P. Grunwald,” On predictive distributions 
and Bayesian networks”, Statistics and Computing, Vol.10, pp.39-54, 2000.
Lam, Wai and Fahiem Bacchus,” Learning Bayesian Belief Networks: An Approach Based on 
The MDL Principle”,Computational Intelligence, Vol. 10, No.3,pp.269-293, 1994.
Larrañaga, Pedro, Mikel Poza, Yosu Yurramendi, Roberto H. Murga, and Cindy M. H. Kuijpers,” 
Structure Learning of Bayesian Networks by Genetic Algorithms: A Performance Analysis of
Control Parameters”, IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, Vol.
18, No.9, pp.912-926, 1996.
Levy, Wiliam B. and Hakan Delic,” Maximum Entropy Aggregation of Individual Opinions”, 
IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics- Part A: Systems and Humans, Vol. 24,
No. 4, pp.606-613, 1994.
Mante., S.P., and F.R. Kardes, ”The role of direction of comparison, attribute-based processing,
and attitude-based processing in consumer preference”, Journal of Consumer Research,
Vol.25, pp.335-352, 1999.
Mármol, Amparo M., Justo Puerto and Francisco R. Fernández,”Sequential incorporation of
imprecise information in multiple criteria decision processes”, European Journal of
