I 
中文摘要 
造成熱應力之身體淨熱負荷源自於工作中身體產生的代謝熱，環境熱源，和穿著衣物
之影響。熱應力是廣為人知的安全、健康危害，其危害對於室外高溼熱環境下需穿著膠囊
式防護衣的工作更為嚴重。為監控穿著膠囊式防護衣時之熱應力，本研究研製可即時傳送
遠端防護衣內小環境氣候及工作者生理反應資料之熱應力個人監控器。此監控器使用一溫/
溼度感應元件量測防護衣內小環境氣候，另外，使用四個皮膚溫度感應元件、一耳溫溫度
感應元件和一心跳監控器評估穿著防護衣工作者之生理回應。此監控器之應用程式並可採
用 ACGIH TLV 熱應力規範、世界衛生組織(WHO)建議需將工作者移離之核心溫度、和
OSHA 熱應力技術手冊建議之心博率與恢復心博率值發展篩選準則以建議協助或移離工作
者之方式以預防或避如熱昏厥、熱衰竭、或熱中暑等免相關熱疾病之發生。 
關鍵詞：熱應力、熱應變、膠囊式防護衣、熱應力監控器 
 
Abstract 
Heat stress is the net heat burden on the body from the combination of the body heat 
generated from working, environmental sources and clothing. It is a well-recognized safety and 
health hazard especially for outdoor operations conducted in hot weather with high humidity that 
have to wear encapsulating protective clothing (EPC). To monitor the heat stress in the EPC, this 
study developed an integrated real-time heat stress/heat strain monitor that can remotely provide 
in field data of microenvironment climate conditions and physiological responses of the workers 
wearing EPC. A humidity/temperature sensor is used to evaluate the environmental condition in 
the EPC and four skin temperature sensors, one tympanic temperature sensor, and one heart rate 
monitor are used to evaluate the physiological strain (heat strain) of the worker that donned EPC. 
Cooperating with criteria such as the ACGIH TLV for heat stress, the body core temperature 
recommended for removal of workers by the World Health Organization (WHO), and the heart 
rate and recovery heart rate methods in heat stress technical manual recommended by OSHA, the 
screening criteria adopted in the application program can recommend measures for assisting or 
removing of the workers to prevent heat-related disorders such as heat syncope, heat exhaustion, 
and heat stoke etc. due to over exposure to heat stress. 
Keywords: heat stress, heat strain, encapsulating protective clothing, heat stress monitor 
 2
of the microenvironment climate conditions in the encapsulating protective clothing. In addition, 
the recorded Questemp0 II and HS-3800 data lack the capability to evaluate the real-time heat 
strain encountered by the workers. Although the telemetry pill is capable of monitoring real-time 
deep body temperature, it tends to be expensive [12] and the invasive way of measuring 
temperature has not received wide acceptance in the field. 
An underestimate of the heat stress based on macroenvironment approach may increase the 
worker’s risk for heat-induced illnesses and injuries. An overestimation of the heat stress and the 
resultant control measures may lead to a loss of productivity. Therefore, it is more meaningful to 
evaluate the heat stress based on measurements taken in the microenvironment in the protective 
suit. Physiological strain monitoring has been treated as alternative or confirming evaluation of 
heat stress when protective clothing is donned [10]. To provide the data necessary for the 
establishment of a field-based relationship between heat stress and heat strain in the EPC, there is 
a definite need for a real-time, personal monitor to evaluate heat stress-heat strain for worker in 
an EPC. 
The goal of this study is to develop a real-time, light weight, and portable personal monitor 
capable of evaluating heat stress and heat strain encountered by workers wearing encapsulating 
protective clothing. The monitor will be a valuable tool for the purpose of exposure surveillance 
and physiological monitoring. In addition, the monitor will allow the collection of field data 
necessary not only for the immediate removal of the field operator but also for potential design 
modification of encapsulating protective clothing. 
二、研究方法與成果 
The real-time personal heat stress/heat strain monitoring system consists of two sets of 
sensors, the first set is used to evaluate the heat stress in the EPC and the second set is used to 
evaluate the physiological strain (heat strain) of the worker that donned EPC. The first set is a 
humidity/temperature sensor and the second set consists of four skin temperature sensors, one 
tympanic temperature sensor, and one heart rate monitor. Two sets of transmitters and receivers 
that are manufactured in the Chaoyang Ergonomics Laboratory are used to wirelessly transmit the 
heat stress/heat strain to a laptop computer. Figure 1 shows the schematic diagram of the 
real-time personal heat stress/heat strain monitoring system. The dotted lines in Figure 1 show 
that the data are transmitted wireless while the solid lines mean that the devices are directed 
linked. 
 4
receiver and downloaded to the laptop later. In this study, the real time communication function 
will be used to monitor the heart rate continuously as one of the heat strain indicator of the 
worker during work.  
Transmitters/Receivers  
The transmitters and receivers manufactured in the Chaoyang Ergonomics Laboratory 
adopted a pair of XBee RF OEM Modules to transmit and receive up to six channels of heat 
stress/heat strain data. The XBee RF OEM Modules operate within the ISM 2.4 GHz frequency 
band and were engineered to meet IEEE 802.15.4 standards. The transmitting ranges for indoor 
and outdoor usage are up to 30 m and 90 m, respectively.  The receivers connect to a laptop 
computer via USB interface.  
An application program written in-house with Borland C++ Builder 6.0 software was used 
to collect, process, and display the heat stress/heat strain data. The interface (Figure 2) of the 
application program is user friendly and completely event driven. When the program is initiated, 
the operator will first click on the “connect” button to connect the transmitter and receiver. Upon 
confirmation of the communication, the operator will then click on the “start” button to receive, 
record, and display the data. The sample rate of the data can be adjusted for up to 1 kHz which is 
the maximum sample rate that can be achieved by the XBee RF OEM Modules    
 
Figure 2 the interface of the application program 
三、結論 
Heat-related disorders such as heat syncope, heat exhaustion, and heat stroke etc. are 
manifestations of over exposure to heat stress [10]. Outdoor operations conducted in hot weather 
with high humidity that require workers to wear EPC can result in the most serious heat related 
disorder, heat stroke, that must be immediately recognized and treated to minimize permanent 
damage. If a buddy system can not be employed and operators are working in the field, the heat 
stress/heat strain monitor developed in this study can be adopted to remotely monitor the workers. 
 6
14. OSHA Technical Manual: Section III: Chapter 4, Heat Stress, 
http://www.osha.gov/dts/osta/otm/otm_iii/otm_iii_4.html. 
 
五、學生畢業論文 
鄭彥文 2009，膠囊式防護衣內即時熱應力個人監控器之建構及其穿戴對手部靈敏度的影
響，碩士論文，朝陽科技大學。 
六、計畫成果自評 
熱應力是廣為人知的安全、健康危害，其危害對於室外高溼熱環境下需穿著膠囊式防
護衣的工作更為嚴重。本研究研製可即時傳送遠端防護衣內小環境氣候及工作者生理反應
資料之熱應力個人監控器，以監控穿著膠囊式防護衣時之熱應力。此監控器之應用程式並
可採用 ACGIH TLV 熱應力規範、世界衛生組織(WHO)建議需將工作者移離之核心溫度、
和 OSHA 熱應力技術手冊建議之心博率與恢復心博率值發展篩選準則以建議協助或移離工
作者之方式以預防或避如熱昏厥、熱衰竭、或熱中暑等免相關熱疾病之發生。本研究研製
之熱應力個人監控器與原計畫完全相符，已達成預期目標。於「中華民國專利資訊檢索系
統」中亦未發現相關專利。本計劃研究成果具應用價值，適合申請專利。 
二、與會心得 
大會安排數十場的專業教育訓練課程包括 “Employing Prevention Through Design 
Concepts to Eliminate Confined Spaces and Their Hazards”、“Fundamentals of Biosafety in 
Laboratories”、“Occupational Epidemiology: Study Design and Calculations”等，可讓有興趣與會
代表，或對相關內容較為生疏、充滿不解之處的學者或業者能瞭解並投入相關領域研究及應
用發展。參與課程，可獲得各國工業衛生最新的發展經驗。 
大會安排發表論文超過 400 篇，題目廣泛，報告者深入的研究與介紹，讓與會者受益良
多。報告後的問題討論和意見交換均相當踴躍熱烈，也提供了非常有用的建議和想法。另外，
可以遇到許多國內外的工業安全衛生先進。除互相寒暄交換名片之外，並可提供意見與交換
信息，熟悉相互間的研究領域。 
 
三、建議 
除了鼓勵學術人員出席國際學術研討會，與國際學者相互交流外，也可以嘗試結合臺灣
學術界人力與能力，於臺灣舉辦國際研討會，增進臺灣能見度及影響力。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
(附件：與會論文) 
研討會會議手冊，研討會所有發表之論文與海報資料光碟，以及 Journal of Occupational 
and Environmental Hygiene 期刊(Volume 6, Number 3, March 2009)。 
 
