 - 2 - 
Abstract 
Key words: fuel lattice, HTR-10, MCNP5, moderator-to-fuel ratio, multiplication factor, neutron spectrum.  
In this study, the behaviors of multiplication factor and neutron spectrum were investigated against the 
moderator to fuel ratio, the fuel loading height, and the location the point detector in HTR-10.  The MCNP5 
computer code (version 1.51) together with temperature-dependent cross sections was employed to perform 
simulation computations.  The results revealed that the multiplication factor varies strongly with the 
moderator to fuel ratio and the fuel loading height due to the competition among the moderation and 
absorption ability of the moderator and the production ability of the fuel.  For the inherently stable reason, 
HTR-10 is deliberately designed such that the multiplication factor decreases and the neutron spectrum 
softens with increasing the moderator to fuel ratio.  In particular, the jagged behaviors in the neutron 
spectrum are smoothed out for the point detector placed at the top of the reactor.  The average neutron 
energy in the fuel balls of HTR-10 is approximately 0.2-0.3 MeV and ranges from smallest to largest with the 
top, bottom, and center of the reactor core, respectively. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Recently, gas-cooled reactors have attracted increasing interest and have also considered as the most 
promising candidate for Generation IV reactors due to their superior advantages such as inherent safety, great 
modularity, low cost, easy financing, high efficiency in electricity generation, and short construction time [1, 
2].  In particular, HTR-10, a well-known experimental 10 MWt pebble-bed type high-temperature gas-cooled 
reactor that was built in China and achieved its first criticality on December 1, 2000 [2].  The key reactor and 
fuel lattice design parameters are listed in Tables 1 and 2, respectively.  A detailed description of HTR-10 
can be found in Refs. [1, 3] among others.  Basically, the original design of heavy metal per fuel ball and the 
volumetric filling fraction of balls in the reactor core are 5 g and 0.61, respectively.  In addition, there are 
approximately 27,000 fuel and graphite balls in the reactor core and each fuel ball contains about 8335 TRISO 
tiny particles which were made of uranium dioxide kernel coated by three pyrolitic carbon (PyC) and one 
silicon carbide layers.  Notably, the PyC layers are comprised of various densities in order to accommodate 
fission products while the SiC layer is designed to serve as cladding in order to avoid the release of fission 
products.  As can be clearly seen, such huge amount and complicated design of fuel balls have led to 
complexity in the nuclear reactor analysis.  Furthermore, in order to enhance the availability in reactor 
operation, the fuel balls roll and recycle continuously by means of discharging and refreshing from the bottom 
and top of the reactor core, respectively, according to their burnup.  Moreover, no neutron monitors can be 
installed in the reactor core because of the on-line refueling design.  Therefore, a thorough theoretical 
understanding of the neutronics characteristics in responding to the variety of fuel lattice design is of prime 
importance for the great enhancement of smooth operation and further improvements of HTR-10.  However, 
to the best of our knowledge, there is no literature available on the parametric study of fuel lattice design for 
HTR-10 and thus constitutes the objective of this study.  
The parametric study of HTR-10 was conducted by investigating the dependence of the multiplication 
factor on the concentration ratio of graphite to fuel (i.e. NC/NU and abbreviated as the moderator to fuel ratio 
herein) and the fuel loading height.  The variations in the neutron spectrum against the location in the core 
and the moderator to fuel ratio are also studied in depth. 
 - 4 - 
fuel ball, and graphite ball and the number of TRISO particles, which are tabulated in Table 3.  The original 
fuel lattice design (i.e. the so-called design point herein) suggested by Lebenhaft [1] is shown in the Case 4.  
Notably, the cladding thickness (i.e. the thickness between fuel ball radius and fuel region radius) is normally 
0.5 cm for the fuel lattice design shown in Cases 1 through 6.  However, the cladding thickness for the fuel 
lattice design shown in Cases 7 through 13 is reduced accordingly due to the necessity to accommodating the 
variations of the moderator to fuel ratio.  In addition, three fuel loading heights (51.82, 127.50, and 180.12 
cm) were employed in this study.  The fuel loading height of 127.50 cm is the critical fuel loading height for 
the moderator to fuel ratio of 8238 achieved by Lebenhaft [1].  
This study also uses the “tally function” in MCNP5 to obtain the neutron spectrum for HTR-10.  Three 
point detectors are employed in this study in order to investigate the neutron spectrum against the distance 
along the central axis of the reactor core.  They are located at: z = -135 cm (i.e. at the top of the reactor core 
where containing no fuel and moderator balls but only helium gas), z = -245 cm (i.e. at the middle of the 
reactor core where containing both fuel and moderator balls), and z = -348 cm (i.e. at the bottom of the reactor 
core where containing both fuel and moderator balls).  It should be emphasized that all these three point 
detectors are placed in the center of fuel balls.  
 
 
Figure 1.  TOP VIEW OF UNIT FUEL LATTICE AND TRISO PARTICLES' LATTICE 
 - 6 - 
Two key factors dominate the phenomena.  They are 1) the enhancement of moderating neutrons to cause 
more fission reactions and 2) the enhancement of absorbing neutrons by moderators to cause less fission 
reactions if the moderator to fuel ratio is increased while the fuel inventory is unchanged.  The former 
outweighs the latter when the moderator to fuel ratio is small, while the opposite is true when the moderator to 
fuel ratio becomes sufficiently large.  It is also worthy of noting that HTR-10 is designed in the 
over-moderating or the negative temperature coefficient of reactivity (i.e. inherently stable) region.  This 
phenomenon can be explained by the fact that the thermal expansion coefficient of uranium is larger than that 
of graphite.  That is, an un-expected increase of the reactor power level could cause an increase in reactor 
temperature which increases the moderator to fuel ratio but subsequently decreases the multiplication factor.  
The decrease of the multiplication factor, which, in turn, causes a decrease in the reactor power level and the 
reactor will return to its original state.  Also notice that the multiplication factor increases and its peak value 
shifts toward higher moderator to fuel ratio as the fuel loading height (i.e. fuel inventory) is increased.  It is 
due to the fact that an increase of fuel inventory leads to the enhancement of producing neutrons to cause 
more fission reactions.  Hence, higher moderator to fuel ratio is needed to offset such an effect.  
Fig. 3 shows the computational results of the neutron spectrum for various locations (i.e. (a) through (c)) 
and moderator to fuel ratios (i.e. (d) through (f)).  Notice that the neutron spectrums as shown are all 
normalized to unity.  The corresponding average neutron energies are tabulated in Table 6.  The moderator 
to fuel ratios of 591, 1707, and 8238 represent the under-, optimal-, and over-moderating regions, respectively.  
As can be seen, the neutron spectrum ranges from softest to hardest with the point detector placed at the top of 
the reactor core (z = -135 cm), bottom of the reactor core (i.e. z = -348 cm), and center of the reactor core (i.e. 
z = -245 cm), respectively.  Also, there exists an apparent thermal peak in the neutron spectrum when the 
point detector is placed at the top of the reactor core (z = -135 cm).  The occurrence of no fuel and moderator 
balls but only helium moderation effects at the top of the reactor core accounts for why the neutron spectrum 
is the softest among all.  In addition, the jagged behaviors in the neutron spectrum are smoothed out for the 
point detector placed at the top of the reactor core.  In general, the fast neutron region decreases and thermal 
neutron region increases with an overall decrease in the average neutron energy when the moderator to fuel 
ratio is increased from the under-moderating to over-moderating regions.  
0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 30000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
 
N
C
/N
U
k
e
ff
 fuel loading   51.82 cm
 fuel loading 127.50 cm
 fuel loading 180.12 cm
design point
cladding = 0.5 cm
 
Figure 2.  THE MULTIPLICATION FACTOR VERUS THE CONCENTRATION RATIO OF GRAPHITE 
TO FUEL FOR VARIOUS FUEL LOADING HEIGHTS 
 
 - 8 - 
the average neutron energy when the moderator to fuel ratio is increased from the under-moderating to 
over-moderating regions.  Furthermore, the fast neutron region decreases and thermal neutron region 
increases with an overall decrease in the average neutron energy when the point detector is placed from the 
center to the bottom and to the top of the reactor core. 
5. REFERENCES 
[1] Lebenhaft, J. R., 2002. “MCNP4B Modeling of Pebble Bed Reactors”. MS Thesis, University of 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology Department of Nuclear Engineering, Cambridge, MA, February. 
[2] Şeker, V.  ¸ Ç olak, Ü ., 2003. “HTR-10 Full Core First Criticality Analysis with MCNP”, Nuclear 
Engineering and Design, 222, pp. 263–270. 
[3] Jing, X., Xu., X., Yang, Y., Qu, R., 2002. “Prediction calculations and experiments for the first criticality 
of the 10 MW high temperature gas-cooled reactor-test module,” Nuclear Engineering and Design, 218, 
pp. 43-49. 
[4] X-5 Monte Carlo Team, April 24, 2003. MCNP- A General Monte Carlo N-Particle Transport Code, 
Version 5, Vol. I: Overview and theory, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Chapter 1, pp.1-6, Chapter 2, 
pp. 87-90. 
[5] X-5 Monte Carlo Team, April 24, 2003, MCNP- A General Monte Carlo N-Particle Transport Code, 
Version 5, Vol. II: User’s Guide, Los Alamos National Laboratory. 
[6] IAEA-TEDOC-1382, International Atomic Energy Agency, 2003. Evaluation of high temperature gas 
cooled reactor performance: Benchmark analysis related to initial testing of the HTTR and HTR-10, 
Chapter 4, pp. 227-322. 
 
6. LIST OF PUBLICATIONS OF THIS RESEARCH PROJECT 
1. J.J. Peir, “HTR-10 core simulation using MCNP5,” Information Exchange Meeting of JAEA and NTHU 
on Generation-IV VHTR and Related Technologies, Department of HTTR, Oarai Research and 
Development Center, November 5-6, (2009). 
2. M.J. Wang, J.J. Peir, and J.H. Liang “HTR-10 neutronics calculation of fuel lattice design using MCNP,” 
Research Conference of National Science Council, May 28, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. (2010). 
3. M.J. Wang, J.J. Peir, C.W. Chi, and J.H. Liang “A parametric study of fuel lattice design for HTR-10,” 
18
th
 International Conference on Nuclear Engineering, May 17-21, Xi’an, China (2010). (Corresponding 
author) 
4. M.J. Wang, J.J. Peir, C.W. Chi, and J.H. Liang “A parametric study of fuel lattice design for HTR-10,” 
Journal of Engineering for Gas Turbines and Power- Transactions of the ASME (2010). (SCI) 
(Corresponding author, in press) 
 1 
拔尖/增能/一般/能源國家型計畫出國報告 
                                             報告繳交日期：99年 05 月 31日 
計畫類型 □拔尖計畫   □增能計畫   □一般計畫   ■能源國家型計畫 
計畫編號  計畫名稱 
三代及三代加輕水式核電廠系統安全分析能力
建立整合 
出差人 裴晉哲 單位系所 原科中心 職稱 核能師 
起迄日期 99.05.15~99.05.22 出國地點 中國：西安 
出國目的 參加國際學術會議並發表論文 
參加會議名
稱(若有) 
(中文) 第十八屆核子工程國際學術研討會 
(英文) The 18th International Conference on Nuclear Engineering (ICONE 
18) 
發表論文題
目(若有) 
(中文) 
(英文) A parametric study of fuel lattice design for HTR-10 
經費核銷 
拔尖/增能/一般/能源國家型補助計畫 元 
其他計畫經費分攤(計畫編號：              ) 元 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、 經過 
第十八屆核子工程國際學術研討會（The 18th International Conference on Nuclear 
Engineering，簡稱 ICONE 18），是全球核子工程領域十分重要的年度盛會，其宗旨係
針對核能工業的向上發展與資訊交流而召開。在今日，能源需求的不斷增加與能源資
源的急遽短絀，加上全球暖化、空氣污染問題的雪上加霜，「核能」無疑是環保力推
的「綠色低碳能源」的最佳選項，也更凸顯其高度的重要性與未來性。本研討會係由
美國機械工程師學會（American Society of Mechanical Engineers，簡稱 ASME）主辦，
每年例常召開會議一次，地點輪流由歐洲、中國、日本、美國等國負責，此屆由中國
陝西省西安市主辦，會場設在曲江國際會議廳，會議期間由五月十七至二十一日，主
要由中國西安交通大學所規劃籌辦，大會主席為中國核工業總公司的總裁 Qin Sun 教
授。整個研討會總計發表 106 篇口頭論文、695 篇全文、60 篇學生海報論文，參與
的學者專家分別來自二十四個國家，總計九百餘人齊聚西安，共襄盛會。 
西安，古稱長安，是歷史悠久的著名古都，自西元前十一世紀到西元十世紀左右，
總共有十三個王朝在此建都，其間歷時一千一百餘年，尤其在西周、秦、西漢、唐四
個朝代，更將西安建設的最為繁榮鼎盛。目前西安市內的街道，仍保有唐代長安城完
善的都市規劃特點：方向端正，排列筆直，彷彿棋盤一般，在古城區仍可看見氣勢非
 3 
人的第一篇精心成果。研究內容取材 HTR-10，其係為建於北京清華大學的「核能與
新能源技術研究院（Institute of Nuclear and New Energy，簡稱核研院 INET）」的第四
代高溫氣冷式核反應器（high-temperature gas-cooled reactor，HTGR），探討燃料球與
石墨球在不同尺寸的比值之下，對於該反應器的臨界燃料格子高度、增殖因數、中子
能譜、中子帄均能量的影響，此外，亦探討該反應器的中子帄均能量隨爐心不同高度
的變化。值得一提的是，該篇論文還被大會遴選為入圍學生論文競賽的作品，該篇論
文在評審眼中的評價很搞，雖然抱憾地與未能獲得獎項，但該篇論文的海報發表，引
來不少學者專家前來討論與探詢，並索取論文，令人備受鼓舞。在與會期間，另外也
參加不少相關的研究議題，仔細聆聽與閱讀與會其他學者專家的報告，並交換彼此心
得與請益問題，受惠良多。 
最後，大會宣布明年5月15~19日，ICONE19將在日本的千葉縣舉行，期待明年再
有一次核工的盛會 
 
二、 心得與建議 
此次研討會，有以下的心得與建議： 
（一）在為期六日的大會期間，除了參加不少相關的研究議題，也仔細地聆聽新
興研究方向並蒐集資料，收獲豐富。在研討會中的學者專家多為核能界的熟面孔，寒
暄問候之餘，彼此之間長足的討論與腦力激盪也特別熱烈，受益匪淺。 
（二）ICONE會議每年在不同國家舉行一次，除了促進核能技術的國際交流與合
作外，亦有助於宣導與推動國際人士對於核能技術的基礎科學以及工業應用的認識與
重視。 
（三）參與國際學術研討會，不僅在個人一面是最佳的學習機會，同時也是培育
未來人才的最佳場所。透過論文的發表與討論，以及交誼活動，可廣交國際友人，並
多向地瞭解國際間科技新知的訊息與脈動，此外，亦可藉此機會展示國內的研究成
果，對於國內的學術界與業界的發展均有極大的助益。希望國內主管機關能夠多鼓勵
並支持國內學者專家積極參與、甚至主辦此類的學術活動。 
（四）額外深切的感觸是西安交通大學在廣納海外傑出華人核能人才的積極努力
與強烈企圖心。在大會第二天晚上，該校還特別準備酒席款待前來參加會議的近百個
海外華人，並由校長親自上陣致辭招募。並分送與會人員「誠徵傑出人才」計畫的宣
傳單，其內條列有（一）國家「千人計畫」；（二）教育部「長江學者」；（三）基金委
「傑出青年基金」；以及（四）西安交通大學「騰飛人才計畫」。並明訂：（一）戰略
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
研究成果已發表在中國西安第十八屆核子工程國際學術研討會（簡稱 ICONE 18）。並經大
會審議獲准轉載美國機械工程學會 ASME 出版的 SCI 期刊 JEGTP 中，目前已進入排版修定，將
於今年 10 月份刊出。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
HTR-10 反應器，係為建於北京清華大學的「核能與新能源技術研究院（Institute of 
Nuclear and New Energy，簡稱核研院 INET）」的第四代高溫氣冷式核反應器（HTGR），
我們藉探討燃料球與石墨球在不同尺寸的比值之下，對於該反應器的臨界燃料格子高度、
增殖因數、中子能譜、中子平均能量的影響，此外，亦探討該反應器的中子平均能量隨爐
心不同高度的變化。計畫執行後的成果有： 
1. 已建立起新世代核反應器的分析能力。 
2. 已建立球床高溫器冷式反應器的核反應數據。 
3. 已建立 MCNP 模擬程式於球床高溫器冷式反應器的臨界計算的能力，亦深植與強化國
內對於球床高溫器冷式反應器以及新型高溫器冷式反應器相關模擬計算技術的基礎。 
4. 已培訓二名碩士研究生，使其熟悉高溫器冷式反應器設計理念與安全特性並增強其核
能的專業能力。 
5. 成果與經驗，可應用於核子工程與科學單位或其他相關機構，繼續進行其他相關課題
的參考與使用。 
6. 建立國內在新世代核反應器基礎能力，進而加強相關領域在國際上的合作與發展空
間，目前已進一步與中國大陸、日本研究單位進行相關的合作研究。 
