 - II - 
二、中英文摘要：計畫中文摘要。 
 
設施佈置是有關於妥善的排列部門使工作流程順暢，同時減低移動的成本。設施佈
置計劃不但在製造業裡也在其他的商業領域佔有一席之地，特別是在今天迅速改變的商
業環境，好的設施排列對一間公司的競爭力影響極大。 
 近年來，關於 Dynamic Facility Layout Problem (DFLP)動態設施佈置的問題很熱
門。企業界，尤其是高科技產業，面對著不斷改變的產品數量和組合，會認為要經常更
新設施佈置才能有效地運作。動態設施佈置，顧名思義，依照時間而重新排列， 因此
設施佈置沒有一成不變。根據定義，DFLP(動態設施佈置問題) 是與透過考慮材料處理
成本和重排的費用在幾個預先決定的時間中找出一個“好”的佈置。 
雖然目前有大量的研究工作投入於動態設施佈置的問題(DFLP)，通常這方面的研究
偏重於一個特別的目標─盡量減少距離和流通成本─又稱為 distance-based 
objective。把重點放在距離目標函數值或 OFV 是不夠來反映在現實的情況；很少考慮
到“質量”方面的設施佈局問題例如鄰接的設施（如噪音，射頻信號干擾，灰塵或安全
原因），有需要把部門盡量的隔離。 
 本研究計劃以開發解決動態設施佈置問題的技術，以兩者distance-based 與 
adjacency-based objectives並重。為了實現這一目標，本研究提議使用 “蟻群演算
法” (Ant Colony Optimization)。其研究結果可用來幫助國內企業做相關的設施佈置，
有新的決定工具。 
   
關鍵字：設施佈置；蟻群演算法；動態設施佈置問題; 多用途啟發式方法 
 
  - 4 -  
目錄 
 
1. Introduction and Objectives ...................................................................... - 4 - 
2. Literary Review......................................................................................... - 5 - 
3. Research Methodology.............................................................................. - 6 - 
4. Results and Discussions ............................................................................ - 7 - 
5. References ................................................................................................. - 9 - 
6. 自評 ......................................................................................................... - 10 - 
 
三、報告內容： 
 
1. Introduction and Objectives 
Facility layout planning plays an important role in the manufacturing process and 
seriously impacts a company’s profitability. The selected layout establishes the physical 
relationship between activities including material handling and warehouse operations. 
(Tompkins, White, Bozer, & Tanchoco, 2003) Since material handling activities account for 
20-50 percent of a manufacturing company’s total operating budget, manufacturers can 
reduce product costs and improve their competitiveness if the facilities are arranged optimally. 
(Tompkins & White, 1984) An effective layout may minimize the material flows and 
distances between department locations which lead to the reduction of material handling costs 
and improvement in cycle times as well.  
In light of current fast-paced, dynamic manufacturing environment the facility layout 
needs to be adaptable to changes. The layouts have to be “flexible enough to accommodate 
changes in product design, process design, and schedule design.” (Tompkins, et al., 2003) 
Furthermore, Heragu predicts that redesigning existing facilities will become more common 
than generating new facility layouts in future facility planning. (1997) Nowadays product 
manufacturing is subject to short product life cycles and product-mix production, especially in 
the high-tech industries, where constantly switching from manufacturing one product line to 
another and discontinuing production lines are now becoming the norm. The decision makers, 
especially managers and facility planners, are dealing with imperfect and soon-to-be-obsolete 
information— they are often forced to contend with one facility configuration at the current 
time but worry about other facility configurations in the nearby future. Due to constantly 
changing environments, the enterprises are pressured to be flexible, adaptable and innovative.  
Traditionally, the facility layouts are planned under the premise that once layouts are 
created, they will stay unchanged for many years to come. (Heragu, 1997) The layouts are 
thus “static” assuming the material flows, customer demands and departments’ locations are 
constant. This type of problem in academic literatures is known as the “Static Facility Layout 
Problem” or SFLP. To keep up with fast-paced changes, however, the factory layout has to be 
re-designed to meet the demands of ever-changing product manufacturing. In 1979 Rosenblatt 
coined the phrase “dynamic facility layout problem” or DFLP to address the impacts of 
changing material flow costs on the layout configuration. (1979) Unlike the traditional static 
facility layout where the layout is relatively constant throughout time, the concept of dynamic 
facility layout introduces the time dimension into the facility layout planning. To construct a 
dynamic facility layout, the facility planners or managers must take the time periods into 
account. At each time period, the material flow costs and rearrangement cost needs to be 
considered and evaluated to determine if the facility rearrangement is necessary. Therefore, 
the pre-determination of material flows costs and department adjacency are required in 
dynamic facility layout. There are several aspects of rearrangement costs that a facility 
planner needs to consider in “dynamic” facility layout: (1) the cost incurred due to loss in 
  - 6 -  
further and used the Simulated Annealing algorithm to solve multi-stage facility layout 
problem with unequal areas (2009). 
Liu also presents three models based on the tabu search. TSbasic is the adaptation of tabu 
search heuristic for the dynamic layout problem. TSall incorporates frequency-based memory 
and diversification/intensification strategies with the tabu search. Probabilistic tabu search 
heuristic (PTS) discreetly selects candidates for tabu search (2005) Jin Shang (2002) and 
McKendall (McKendall & Shang, 2006) proposes three variants of Ant Colony Optimization 
models for solving the dynamic facility layout problem. The first (HAS I) is derived from 
Gambardella’s HAS-QAP with adaptation for dynamic facility layout problem. (1999) The 
second heuristic (HAS II) combines the ideas of HAS I and Simulated Annealing 
meta-heuristics. The third heuristic (HAS III) adds the look-ahead/look-back strategy to the 
pair-wise exchange heuristic (local search). The author’s models have performed well with the 
two set of input data from Lacksonen and Enscore (1993) and Balakrishnan and Cheng (2000). 
In summary, the main difference among the three algorithms is the local search/optimization─ 
HAS I uses a random descent pair-wise exchange heuristic; HAS II uses the Simulated 
Annealing (SA) as the local search; HAS III uses the random descent pair-wise exchange with 
the look-ahead/look-back strategy. Particle Swarm Optimization or PSO, which has been a 
quite popular heuristic algorithm lately, is applied to solve this type of problem as well 
(Rezazadeh, Ghazanfari, Saidi-Mehrabad, & Sadjadi, 2009). 
3. Research Methodology 
The first half of the research will combine the 2-opt algorithm which will be used as the 
local search for the local optima with the HAS-QAP by Gambardella and colleagues (1999) 
for solving SFLP and later Jin Shang’s HAS I (2002) framework for solving DFLP to come up 
with a solution that provides good and fast convergence of global optima. The first step in the 
ant colony optimization algorithm is to generate a set of initial solutions, each solution 
(facility layout) associated with one ant. The solution is then improved with the local 
search/optimization procedure. After the initial solutions are generated, the pheromone trails 
are initialized by setting all pheromone entries to the same initial value. Afterwards, the 
‘pheromone trail swap’ is performed to modify each ant’s solution. The swap is performed 
based on a set of policies: a department r is randomly selected between 1 and n. Then a 
second department is selected where s ≠ r and based on one of two probabilistic policies. 
The local optimization algorithm is performed again to improve on the modified solution. If 
the best solution is found by one of the ants is better than that at the start of the local 
optimization procedure, the intensification is activated. The newly found best solution is used 
to start the next iteration. The intensification process is to explore the neighborhood of the 
best solution found so far. The pheromone matrix is next updated after all the ants have gone 
through the local search process. The pheromone update is carried out by first decreasing the 
pheromone trails to simulate the evaporation of pheromone, and then reinforcing the 
pheromone trails based on the solution quality. The pheromone trails are maintained in the 
pheromone trail matrix P, where entries Pij measures the desirability of assigning department 
i to location j.  After a certain number of iterations and the solution associated with each ant 
have not improved, a diversification strategy is used to ‘diversify’ the solution into 
unexplored solution space. Once the diversification is activated, the information in the 
pheromone trails would be erased and re-initialized. The entire HAS-QAP process is repeated 
until the maximum number of iterations is reached (Gambardella, et al., 1999).   
 
To solve multi-objective type of problems, two kinds of solution methods can be 
employed: (1) Aggregate Objective Function (AOF) and (2) Pareto compliant ranking method. 
AOF is a simple method to implement since it requires a specified scalar weight for each 
objective, and all objectives are ‘aggregated’ together into one single function. The second 
method revolves around the notion of ‘Pareto efficient’ where further update to one objective 
will make the other objective worse off. This research expands on previous concepts by 
  - 8 -  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Activity Relationship Charts for Dynamic Multi-objective Facility Layout 
 
 
  
 
 
Figure 2: Dynamic Multi-Objective Facility Layout Generated by ACO-DML 
 
 
Based on the data and results collected and analyzed, the proposed algorithm, 
ACO-DML, shows promises to be a useful tool in solving the dynamic multi-objective facility 
problem. For future work, facility layouts with unequal sizes or irregular shapes can be 
incorporated into the dynamic multi-objective facility layout problem to better reflect the 
real-world scenario. Larger data sets such as twelve departments with multiple time periods 
will also be tested against the algorithm. Furthermore, heuristic determination of parameters 
for ACO-DML (in regards to robustness) using particle swarm optimization (Hao, Cai, & 
Huang, 2006) or other heuristics may be another topic worthy of investigation.
  - 10 -  
 
6. 自評 
The research is to investigate the combining effects of material flow costs and facility 
adjacency relationship in minimizing the dynamic facility layout. The significances of the 
research are multifold. Never before have both distance and adjacency objectives been 
considered together prior to this research. Consequently, the results carried out in this research 
may help trigger more interests in the academia to consider multi-objectives that exist in 
actual facility layout planning today. The future work may include considering budget 
constraints often associated with facility layouts and cell group technology. Additionally, from 
the industry’s perspective, the results provide a sought-after decision tool that helps the 
facility planners during the process of layout arrangement. To take one step further, The 
results may be applicable to other areas as well such as keyboard layout, freight shipping, etc. 
Therefore, the research, being the first to consider the dynamic facility layout and 
multi-objectives together, has significant impacts on the researches of related topics and 
industry alike. 
 
up with an automated approach to arrange or prioritize the 
order of the test cases to be executed optimally based on the 
test case criteria. The paper is organized as the follows. In 
section 2, we present the background of related work on test 
case arrangement, mainly on test case prioritization. In 
section 3, we discuss the optimization method of Ant Colony 
Optimization. In section 4, we talk about the assumptions and 
constraints for this research. In section 5, we introduce the 
proposed test case arrangement method. In section 6, we 
conclude this research and discuss future work. 
 
II. BACKGROUND 
 
Arranging test cases based on certain criteria have been 
discussed in literatures. Rothermel, Untch, Chu and 
Harrold[10] has coined the word “test case prioritization 
problem” and gave it the formal definition: 
 
Given: T, a test suite, PT, the set of permutations of T, and f, a 
function from PT to the real numbers. 
Problem: Find T PT′∈ such that 
( )( )( )[ ( ) ( )]T T PT T T f T T′′ ′′ ′′ ′ ′ ′′∀ ∈ ≠ ≥     
 
In the definition, PT represents the set of all possible 
prioritizations (orderings) of T, and f is a function that, 
applied to any such ordering, yields an award value for that 
ordering. 
Several techniques have been developed by Rothermel et. 
al to prioritize the execution of existing test cases by 
exposing faults early in the regression testing process. They 
have also developed a weighted average of the percentage of 
faults detected, or APFD, which corresponds to the function f 
in the definition above. Because APFD is developed with the 
number of faults known in advance, it may not be practical 
for the black box testing environment. [9] Instead, another 
metric based on the run time execution and test history is 
proposed. Moreover, they suggest the relation matrix for 
grouping the related test cases as a part of their test case 
ordering process. 
Li et al. [6] study five search algorithms for regression test 
case prioritization, which include Greedy Algorithm, 
Additional Greedy Algorithm, 2-Optimal Algorithm, Hill 
Climbing, and Genetic Algorithm (GAs). They conclude that 
the Greedy Algorithm performs much worse than other 
algorithms and meta-heuristic algorithms like GAs are quite 
encouraging. Additionally, they also propose three new 
metrics for the test case prioritization: APBC (Average 
Percentage Block Coverage), APDC (Average Percentage 
Decision Coverage), and APSC (Average Percentage 
Statement Coverage). 
Other than those search algorithms mentioned above, 
more recent meta-heuristics such as Particle Swarm 
Optimization (PSO) has been proposed to prioritize the test 
cases. Hla et. al apply the PSO to “prioritize the test cases to 
the new best positions based on modified software units to 
spend as little resource on retesting as possible.” [4] 
Among the papers discussed above, most measure success 
based on APFD or code/statement coverage. 
The researchers of this study propose to prioritize the test 
cases based on test case severities, estimated time and 
customer’s preference, rather than on those metrics 
mentioned above, to better reflect real-world scenario during 
the in-plant test process. 
 
III. ANT COLONY OPTIMIZATION 
 
To automate the test case arrangement, the Ant Colony 
Optimization (ACO) is proposed as the algorithm of choice 
for optimization.  
The Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) is proposed by 
Dorigo and Stützle [2] to solve optimization problems by 
simulating the ants’ foraging behavior. The general concept 
of ACO is summarized in the following sentences. Initially 
ants explore the food source from the ant colony taking 
random paths. As they crawl along different paths, they 
deposit the pheromones on the ground. As more and more 
pheromones accumulated on the trails, ants would tend to 
take the path with the strongest pheromone concentrations. 
ACO has been applied to different optimization problems 
including Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), Vehicle 
Routing, Scheduling, facility layout problems among others. 
Since the test case arrangement problem is a combinatorial 
problem, the researchers intend to solve it through the ACO. 
 
IV. ASSUMPTIONS AND CONSTRAINTS 
 
The research deviates from those works on test case 
prioritization mentioned in the background section in several 
ways: 
z The test cases to be executed are assumed to be run in the 
black-box environment. That is, the software testers or 
customers have no prior knowledge as to the software 
internal structure. 
z We assume that the test cases to be executed and 
demonstrated in front of the customers have been run 
before. That is, there already exists the test history 
regarding the test case execution time, test case severity, 
and some inputs from customers in terms of test case 
preference.  
 
V. PROPOSED TEST CASE ARRANGEMENT METHOD 
 
The proposed test case arrangement method takes into 
account of test case inter-dependency where test case B may 
depends test case A for execution. In another word, test case 
B cannot be executed until test case A has been run. In a 
real-world scenario, the test case of “startup” is always 
1597
PICMET 2010 Proceedings, July 18-22, Phuket, Thailand © 2010 PICMET
 Figure 1: HAS-QAP Flow Diagram 
 
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK 
 
In the research we have presented additional 
considerations associated with current test case arrangement 
practices for the in-plant testing. As opposed to other works 
in current literatures where APFD or code/statement coverage 
are considered as the metrics, we consider metrics such as 
test case estimated time, test severities and customer’s 
preference to better reflect the real-world scenario. We also 
present the aggregated weight of test case arrangement and 
Generate m initial 
solutions, each one 
associated to one ant 
Initialize the pheromone 
trail; i = 1, ant_k = 1 
i < Imax EXIT NO 
ant_k < m 
YES 
Modify the solution 
associated with ant k 
using the pheromone 
il
Apply a local search to 
the modified solution 
YES 
Associate a new starting 
solution to ant k using an 
intensification mechanism 
ant_k = ant_k + 1 
Update the 
pheromone trail 
NO
Apply a 
diversification 
mechanism 
i = i + 1 
1599
PICMET 2010 Proceedings, July 18-22, Phuket, Thailand © 2010 PICMET
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99 年 07 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
    Portland International Center for Management of Engineering and Technology 簡稱 PICMET 
是個國際性的大型會議，吸引全球各地對科技領域研究學者的參與。 今年 PICMET ‘10 會議是在風
光媚麗的泰國普吉島舉辦四天三夜的會議活動，我提前一晚(7/17)抵達泰國普吉島，隔天上午報到
並領取會議相關資料。同天傍晚 5:30~10:00 點舉行歡迎晚會。在晚會中因為同桌的關係認識了幾位
兩岸三地及東南亞的學者與研究員，同時也與我的指導教授 Dr. Jamie Rogers（任教於美國德州大
學阿靈頓分校）會面。透過指導教授 Dr. Jamie Rogers (德州大學阿靈頓分校副教授)的介紹，認
識了在科技管理研究的資深學者包括 Dr. Kumiko Miyazaki，Dr. Timothy Anderson 等。 
 星期一 7/19 開始第一天的會程。早上安排二場的 keynote speaker 演講相關主題，由泰國的政府
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2218  － E － 033 － 004 － 
計畫名稱 運用啟發式方法來評估動態佈置規劃雙目標問題 
出國人員
姓名 
陳育欣 
服務機構
及職稱 
私立中原大學工業與系統工程
學系 
會議時間 
99 年 07 月 18 日
至 99 年 07 月 22
日 
會議地點 
泰國普吉島 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) PICMET (Portland International Center for Management of 
Engineering and Technology) ‘10 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Arranging Software Test Cases through a Optimization Method  
附件四 
 3 
 
六、其他 
    無。 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳育欣 計畫編號：98-2218-E-033-004- 
計畫名稱：運用啟發式方法來評估動態佈置規劃雙目標問題(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
Presented 
conference 
papers at IEEM 
2009 and PICMET 
2010. 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 30%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
