 2
strengthening and precipitation hardening. HSLA steels usually possessed yield strengths of about 400 – 
500 MPa, and the contribution of precipitation hardening to these values was considered to be minor, 
since many of the alloying elements were added to HSLA steels in the past basically for the strengthening 
of grain refinement. However, in recent work conducted at JFE Steel [1], yield strengths of up to 780 MPa 
have been achieved in Ti and Mo bearing HSLA sheet steels by producing microstructures that consist of 
a ferritic matrix with nanometer-sized carbides. These steels have been given the trade name Nanohiten 
[1], and the precipitation strengthening due to the nanometer-sized carbides in these alloys has been 
estimated to be approximately 300 MPa. This value draws much attention, for it is two or three times 
higher than that of conventional Ti bearing hot-rolled sheet steels. Indeed, these nanometer-sized 
precipitates, which form during fabrication, are expected to cause significant hardening, as they would be 
coherent, or at least semi-coherent, with the ferrite matrix. It is clear that the most important factor in the 
development of this type of advanced HSLA steels is to obtain the optimum volume fraction of the 
nanometer-sized carbides and, in this regard, the thermal stability of the precipitates is critical [2-11]. The 
scope of the present work is to investigate the precipitation hardening of carbides formed in ferrite matrix 
in three experimental Ti, Ti-Nb and Ti-Mo containing HSLA steels after continuous cooling and 
interrupted cooling. The features of the corresponding carbides are also examined.  
 
2. Experimental procedure  
The investigation involved three different steels. A titanium containing C-Mn-Ti steel was selected 
 4
respectively. In Process B, the interrupted cooling experiments were performed; after autenitization at 
1200℃ for 3 min, the specimens were cooled to 800℃ (or 650℃) at a cooling rate of 20℃/s, and then 
cooled to room temperature at cooling rates of 0.5 and 0.1℃/s, respectively.  
The specimens for optical metallography were prepared from the dilatometer specimens. The 
specimens were mechanically polished and then etched in 2% natal solution. For the purpose of revealing 
the precipitation hardening, hardness measurement was made on the ferrite phase in the optical specimens, 
using a Vickers hardness tester with a load of 100 g. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) samples 
were prepared from 0.25 mm thick discs slit from the dilatometer specimens. The discs were thinned to 
0.5 mm by abrasion on silicon carbide paper and then electropolished in a twin jet electropolisher using a 
solution of 5% perchloric, 25% glycerol, and 70% ethanol at -20℃ and 35V potential. They were 
examined using a JEOL JEM 2000 EX. Furthermore, the compositional analysis of nanometer sized 
carbides was examined using Tecnai F30 FEG-TEM equipped with a nanometer probe energy dispersive 
X-ray spectrometery (EDX).  
3. Experimental results and discussion 
For the three steels studied, the microstructures of the corresponding specimens treated in Process 
A have been investigated. As the cooling rate is higher than 5℃/s, a high volume fraction of martensite 
and bainite can be obtained. As the cooling rate decreases to 0.5℃/s, the bainite and martensite do not 
exist and the microstructure is composed chiefly of allotriomorphic ferrite with a small amount of pearlite. 
The main objective of present study focuses on the precipitation of carbide in the ferrite matrix. The 
 6
the specimens of Steel Ti-Mo were cooled to 650℃at a cooling rate of 20℃/s, and then cooled to room 
temperature at cooling rates of 0.5, 0.25 and 0.1℃/s respectively. The corresponding TEM micrograph, 
Vickers hardness and the data for the average particle size of carbide in Steel Ti-Mo are shown in Figs 5 
and 6. At the final cooling rates of 0.5, 0.25 and 0.1℃/s, respectively, the corresponding values of 
Vickers hardness of the specimens are Hv 280, Hv 304 and Hv 326, separately. The Data of Vickers 
hardness show a profound increase in hardness, which is associated with the formation of a large mount 
of nanometer-sized carbides. It is significant that after autenitization, the rapid cooling of Steel Ti-Mo to 
650℃ leads to a high degree of supersaturation in ferrite matrix. Thereby, the supersatured solid-solution 
ferrite can produce plenty of nanometer scaled carbides afterwards at the relatively slow cooling rates. 
The precipitation of alloy carbides in microalloyed steels may occur at different stages during the 
manufacture and fabrication. In this work, precipitation from supersaturated ferrite in Steel Ti-Mo has 
been found to cause significant hardening. From the TEM observation of the specimen of Steel Ti-Mo 
with Hv 326, it is suggested that the effective size range for precipitation hardening is approximately 5 – 
10 nm, as shown in Fig. 6. The selected area diffraction patterns have been analyzed in Fig. 6(d). The 
result indicates that (Ti, Mo) C carbides forming in the supersaturated ferritic solid solution adopt the 
Baker-Nutting (B-N) orientation relationship [12] with respect to the ferrite matrix, 
i.e.{ } }{ ferritecarbide 100//001 and ferritecarbide ><>< 010//110 . High-resolution lattice image of the 
nanometer sized carbide has been investigated using FEG-TEM equipped with nanometer probe EDX, as 
presented in Fig. 7. As expected, the precipitate is coherent, or at least semi-coherent, with the matrix. 
 8
[6]   H. J. D. H. Bhadeshia, “Biainite in Steels”, 2nd edition, Cambridge, United Kingdom, 2001, p. 28. 
[7]  H. Morikawa and T. Sato: Proc. 5th Int. Conf. on High Voltage Electron Microscopy, Kyoto, 1977, p. 
531. 
[8]   A. J. Deardo, Int. Mater. Rev., 48(2003) 371. 
[9]   H. J. Jun, K. B. Kang, C. G. Park, Scripta Mater., 49(2003)1081. 
[10]  K. Hirano and Y. Ipposhi, J. Jpn. Inst. Metals, 32(1968)821. 
[11]  K. Nohara and K. Hirano, "Self-Diffusion in the Fe-Mo-System", Nippon Kinzoku Gakkai-shi (J. 
Jpn. Inst. Met.), 40 (1976)1053. 
[12]  B. G. Baker and J. Nutting, “Precipitation Processes in Steels”, Special Report 64 (London: Iron 
and Steel Institute). 1959, 1.  
 10
the corresponding nanometer-sized carbide (b) and ferrite matrix (c) in the specimen of Steel 
Ti-Mo after interrupted cooling at 650℃and then cooled at cooling rates of 0.1℃/s to room 
temperature. 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.2 
 14
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 
 
 
 
