reproduction was firstly developed in this study. It was derived based on the approach suggested by Pattanaik et al. [3, 
4]. It carried out a multiscale representation of the human visual system; and then followed by using an equation similar 
to a photoreceptor adaptation equation, originally proposed by Michaelis-Menten [5, 6]. Moreover, with the 
incorporations of multiscale type adaptation-and-spatial vision model, HDR tone-mapping operator, device 
characterization and gamut mapping models, the module derived would mapped the vast ranges of radiances, found in 
real and synthetic scenes, into the small limited ranges available on conventional display devices of LCD’s and 
printers/presses.  
 
2. COMPUTAIONAL FRAMEWORK OF MODEL  
 
 
Figure 1. The specific computational procedures used to implement each step of the model. 
A HDR imaging module as mentioned earlier, based on a multiscale model of adaptation and spatial vision in human 
visual system, was developed and applied to the problems of realistic tone reproduction across imaging devices. 
Additionally, an adaptive gamut mapping algorithm, incorporated with device characterization models for both Adobe 
RGB and sRGB formats of LCD displays, was also plugged in the computation framework to carry out the optimization 
of HDR image rendering. The adaptive gamut mapping algorithm was implemented using both a bilateral filtering 
technique [7] and a multiple-conversing-points approach [8, 9]. The Adobe RGB format of LCD (EIZO Color Edge 
CG221) was characterized under D65 white point, and used as a soft-proofing platform to display/represent HDR RGB 
images, and also to evaluate rendition-quality of images produced. Moreover, an Un-Sharp Masking (USM), used for 
detail enhancement which was conventional and practically applied in color separation algorithm for graphic arts, was 
carried out in the optimization process of HDR image rendition quality when needed. The specific computational 
procedures that were used to implement each step of the model are described below. A pictorial representation of each 
stage of the model/algorithm applied is presented in Figure 1. 
2.1. Tone Mapping Algorithm  
The reproduction of the visual appearance of original scene is the ultimate goal in the tone mapping. Therefore the tone 
mapping algorithm developed here made use of adaptive and spatial visual model with multi-scale, to provide the 
solution to compress the dynamic range of the HDR image to fit into the display range while preserving details.  
attributes differ from the cones. The adapted contrast signals are then passed through contrast transducer functions. 
Different transducer functions are applied to each spatial frequency mechanism to approximate psychophysically 
derived human spatial contrast sensitivity functions. Two-part functions, consisting of two power functions, are chosen 
to replicate the two regions of distinct slope in the transducer functions. Again, the rods use a separate function. After 
the contrast transducers, the rod and cone signals can be combined to produce signals that represent the three-
dimensional color appearances of the input image. 
 
As this point, the output of the visual model consists of appearance signals in an achromatic and two chromatic channels, 
and six spatial band-pass mechanisms plus a low-pass image. These appearance signals can, then, be backward through 
the model to recreate cone signals (that replicate the full color appearance of the image on a photopic/trichromatic 
display device such as a LCD display), and ultimately device signals such as RGB or CMYK. 
 
Of all nonlinear mappings, logarithmic and exponential mappings are among the most straightforward. For medium 
dynamic range images, accommodated by current LDR display devices, these very simple solutions may still be 
competitively with more complex operators. Therefore, in this study, both logarithmic and exponential mapping 
operators were implemented to process luminance mapping using Eqns. 1 and 2 respectively.   
 
10 w
d
10 max
w
d
av
log (1 L (x, y))L (x, y) (1)
log (1 L )
L (x, y)L (x, y) 1 exp (2)
L
+= +
⎛ ⎞= − ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
  
Here, ( , )dL x y is the display luminance that is the quantity we wish to display; avL , average luminance; maxL , the 
maximum luminance on image; and ( , )wL x y , image luminance. The logarithm is a compressive function for values 
larger than 1; whereas the exponential mapping operators transforms world luminances to display luminances using the 
exponential function, bound between 0 for black pixels and 1 for infinitely bright pixels. 
2.2. Device Characterization and Gamut Mapping  
Two LCD with standard color space of Adobe RGB and sRGB 9 (both under D65 white point calibration) were used as 
displays of images. The Adobe RGB format of display was used as a soft-proofing platform to display/represent HDR 
RGB images, and also to evaluate both rendition-quality and prediction-performance of modules derived. Moreover, the 
sRGB LCD (EIZO ColorEdge CE240W) was used as LDR display, representing the common available LCD with 
intermediate limit of dynamic range. Therefore, an adaptive gamut mapping algorithm, introduced by Nicolas Bonnier 
et al. [7] mentioned earlier were also implemented in this study. By plugging bilateral filtering with a multiple 
conversing-points approach (Fig. 3), it maps the Adobe RGB image to sRGB images. Additionally, the adaptive GMA 
could also be incorporated with or without an adaptive Un-sharp Masking (USM), to carry out the optimization of HDR 
image rendition.  
 
This adaptive gamut mapping algorithm decomposes the image tested into two bands (see Fig. 4), and can provide 
several available options: 1) re-render Ilow ; 2) rescale and remap its lightness range; and 3) adjust Ihigh using a scaling 
factor; 4) spatially filter or modify image considered using a more complex function [13]; 5) adjust the merging 
function of the two adjusted bands. Fig. 4 shows the adaptive algorithms derived in this study by the following process: 
• Conversion of the original Adobe RGB image to the CIELAB color space: Iin. 
• Decomposition of the CIELAB image into two bands using bilateral filtering (BF): Ilow and Ihigh. 
• Hue-Preserving MinimumΔE clipping [14](HPMinΔE clipping) (3) of the low-pass band Ilow: Ilow.  
[Iout = HPMinΔE (Iin), with Iin the original image and Iout the gamut mapped image.] 
• Adaptive merging of Ilow (4)and Ihigh(5): Iout . 
• Conversion to the sRGB encoding of the output LCD. 
function form, as well as the choice of anchor value, has a significant impact on the resulted appearance of images 
produced. Although more experimentations would be needed to obtain definite conclusions, it seems that the value, 
avL  or wL , chosen to anchor the mapping, has the more profound effect on the overall image appearance results. 
 
      
(a)                                              (b)  
    
(c)                                              (d) 
Figure 5. Application of the model using a linear (a), an exponential (b and c) and a logarithmic mapping (d). 
3.2. Device Characterization and Gamut Mapping 
Eight images in Adobe RGB type (Fig. 6) were used to test the adaptive gamut mapping algorithms (GMAs) derived. 
Three mapping methods, including linear compression, S-shape compression and clipping were considered. Additionally, 
the GMAs were also tested, a) with or without plug-in of the USM filter; b) using or not using adjusted approach (i.e. 
spatial-and-color adaptive clipping/compression), to evaluate the filter rendition performance. The USM considered was 
used in the adjusted type of gamut mapping to compensate the smoothing effect of bilateral filter. In total, 7 GMA 
models were investigated. They are listed in Table 1.  
 
Finally, A set of forced-choice paired comparison psychophysical experiment were carried out, to make comparisons of 
colour appearance matching between the original images (displayed on the Adobe RGB LCD) and the reproduction 
images (displayed on the sRGB LCD). It was used to cross verify the prediction performances of those GMAs derived 
DCMs in question. A panel of 10 observers viewed a paired of reproductions randomly presented, and judged which of 
the two gave a better match (i.e. color fidelity) to an original image in question. The paired comparison results in terms 
of the z-score with 95% confidence limit (CL), for the combined 8 images, were summarized and plotted in Fig. 7. The 
results apparently showed that adjusted linear compression, using with and also without the adapted USM, 
outperformed the others. It implies that the use of both bilateral and USM filters significantly enhances the GMA 
rendering performance in cross-media color reproduction. 
 
impact on the field of digital imaging. Potential application areas include: image quality metrics; image coding and 
compression methods; perceptually-based image synthesis algorithms; image-based rendering.  
 
There is still much work to be done in this area. Future models should integrate multispectral type of device 
characterization models to reduce metamerism problems. A well-performed CIEXYZ type of multi-spectral Standard 
Observer mode was derived previously [2] to optimally reconstruct spectra of HDR scene. The Observer model, 
simulating responses of CIE 1931 color matching functions, was plugged-in a Winner algorithm with basis vectors. 
Those basic vectors used in the Winner algorithm were obtained using singular value decomposition method (SVD) 
which is based on a reflectance dataset of Glossy Munsell Book. A mean ΔE*00 value of 0.22 was found for reconstruct 
performances of the CIEXYZ multispectral Standard Observer model derived, under D65 white-point/illuminant. 
Therefore, via the multi-spectral Observer model, the broadband RGB type of Adobe RGB HDR images can be further 
satisfactorily transformed into the illuminant-independently multi-spectral images. The Adobe RGB type of both 
broadband (i.e. RGB format) and multi-spectral images can be, hence, preferably chosen as broadband and multi-
spectral originals (of HDR scene) respectively for high-rendition imaging applications across media of digital HDR 
cameras, displays and printers/presses considered. Therefore the goal of deriving an illuminant-independent type of 
HDR imaging module can be satisfactorily achieved; and it can be applied to optimally multi-spectrally reconstruct 
every color concerned in high-dynamic-range of original images for preferable cross-media color reproduction 
applications. 
 
 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
This work was mostly supported by National Science Council (Project # NSC 97 - 2221 - E - 128 - 007 ).  
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] P. E. Debevec, and J. Malik, “Recovering high dynamic range radiance maps from images,” Proceedings 
SIGGRAPH 97, pp. 369-378 (1997). 
[2] M. C. Lo, C. L. Chen, and T. H. Hsieh, “Characterization of high-fidelity color printing devices using illuminant-
independent approaches for color imaging application,” NIP 24: 24th International Conference on Digital Printing 
Technologies, pp. 597-602 (2008). 
[3] S. N. Pattanaik, J. A. Ferwerda, , M. D. Fairchild, and D. P. Greenberg, “A multiscale model of adaptation and 
spatial vision for realistic image display,” in SIGGRAPH 98 Conference Proceedings, ACM SIGGPAPH, pp. 287-
298 (1998). 
[4] S. N. Pattanaik, J. Tumblin, H. Yee, and D. P. Greenberg, “Time-dependent visual adaptation for the fast realistic 
display ,”  in SIGGRAPH 2000 Conference Proceedings, ACM SIGGRAPH, pp. 47-54 (2000). 
[5] J. E. Dowing, [The Retina: An Approachable Part of the Brain], Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press (1987). 
[6] E. Reinhard, G. Ward, S. Pattanaik, and P. Debevec, [High Dynamic Range Imaging –Acquisition, Display and 
Image-Based Lighting], Morgan Kaufmann Publisher, pp.197-199 (2006). 
[7] N. Bonnier, F. Schmitt, M. Hull, and C. Leynadier, “Spatial and color adaptive gamut mapping: a mathematical 
framework and two new algorithms,” 15th Color Imaging Conference Final Program and Proceedings, pp.267-272 
(2007). 
[8] H. S. Chen, “Three-dimensional gamut mapping GM based on the concept of image dependence,” Journal of 
Image and Technology, vol. 46, No. 1, pp. 44-52 (2002). 
[9] M. C. Lo, H. S. Chen, and C. P. Chueh , “The design of advanced gamut mapping algorithms in color management 
systems,” TAGA proceeding, pp.3-15 (2003). 
[10] M. D. Fairchild, [Color Appearance Models], John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, pp. 265-277 (2005). 
[11] G. Wyszecki, and W. S. Stiles, [Color Science: Concepts and Methods, Quantitative Data and Formulae] (2nd ed.), 
New York: John Wiley and Sons. (2000). 
[12] P. J. Burt, and E. H. Adelson, “The Laplacian pyramid as a compact image code,” IEEE Transaction on 
Communication, 31(4), pp. 532-540 (1983). 
[13] N. Bonnier, and E. P. Simoncelli, “Locally adaptive multiscale contrast optimization,” in Proc 12th IEEE Int’l 
Conf on Image Proc, (Genoa, Italy), IEEE Computer Society (2005). 
[14] CIE, [Guidelines for the evaluation of Gamut Mapping Algorithms], ISBN: 3901906266 (2004). 
表 Y04                                                                 共 4 頁  第 2 頁    
 
(AIC2010 國際色彩協會中期研討會的論題) 
• Colorimetry  
色度測量學 
• Color technology  
色彩科技 
• Color instrumentation 
測色儀器 
• Color chemistry 
色彩化學 
• Color physics 
色彩物理學 
• Color & appearance 
色彩和色外貌 
• Lighting 照明 
• Commercial architecture  
商業建築術 
• Arts and color design 
藝術和色彩設計 
• Packaging 
包裝 
• Advertisement 廣告 
• Color communication  
色彩溝通 
• Consumer expectations  
消費者期望 
• Color preferences 
色彩偏好 
• Color psychology 
• 色彩心理學 
 
在研討會中共計有 150篇論文的發表，其中包含 46篇的Oral presentation與 4個Keynote 
lectures 以 及 100 篇 的 Posters ， 估 計 參 與 者 有 200 多 人 。 研 討 會 網 址 可 見
http://www.aic2010.org 。在此次 AIC2010 研討會的 Oral session 共有 12 個 Session，分別為：
1. 「食物色彩和外貌」(Food color and appearance) (為 Open oral session) 
2. 「食物色彩心理學主題」(Psychological aspects of food color)  
3. 「食物包裝的色彩」(Color in food packaging) 
4. 「食物相關之建築學方面的色彩」(Color in food-related architecture) 
5. 「食物化學和色度測量學」(Food chemistry & colorimetry ) 
6. 「食物色度測量學」(Food colorimetry) 
7. 「藝術和文化方面的色彩和食物」(Color and food in arts & culture) 
8. 「色彩、特性和喜好」(Color, food properties and preferences) 
9. 「食物環境的色彩設計」(Color design in food environments) 
10. 「文化和語言方面的色彩和食物」(Color and food in culture and language) 
11. 「食物照明、彩色成像和色外貌」(Food lighting, color imaging and appearance) 
12. 「演講和所有主題最後結論摘錄報告和討論」(Lecture and reports)：為 Closing session。
演講的主題為─「食物的色彩和視覺外貌」(Color and visual appearance in food)。 
另外，此次AIC中期年會中亦參插有商業市集和藝術展覽。 
 
會議的結尾中亦有一些有關後面連續幾年即將開辦的研討會/國際會議的Presentation： 
AIC 2015 “”Color and Image” , Tokyo, Japan 
AIC 2013, 12th Congress, Newcastle Gateshead, United Kingdom. 
AIC 2012 “In Color We Live: Color and Color Synesthesia” , Taipei, Taiwan. 
AIC 2011 “”Interaction of Color & Light” , Zurich, Switzerland. 
至於 Posters presentation 的主題則分為 10 大類，分別為「食物包裝識別的色彩 Color in 
food packaging identification」、「食物設計、建築和環境的色彩 Color in food design, 
architecture and built environment」、「食物色彩和照明 Food color and lighting」、「藝術、文化
和溝通方面的食物色彩 Food color in the arts, culture and communication」、食物色彩的感覺
 
表 Y04                                                                 共 4 頁  第 4 頁    
1. AIC 2010, Interim Meeting of the International Color Association –  Color and Food: 
From the Farm to the Table 的會議手冊 
2. AIC 2010, Interim Meeting of the International Color Association –  Color and Food: 
From the Farm to the Table 的 Program 手冊 
3. AIC 2010 poster 研討會海報 
4. NCS (Natural Color System)圖譜 
5. 會場照片若干 
 
 
  
 
 
2. COMPUTAION FRAMEWORK OF MODEL 
 
The HDR tone-mapping technique, with the incorporation of a locally adaptive white/gray 
balancing method (white-point conversion), was the main focus of this research. It took 
account of cross-media color transformation of scene-referred images on food stores, under 
mixed multi-illuminants. Figure 1 provides a flow chart of each major step in computation 
framework of model. Three sets of cross-media HDR imaging modules were proposed and 
evaluated. HDR modules developed here were only different in the use of tone-mapping 
algorithms. Three tone-mapping operators implemented included photoreceptive adaptation 
algorithm (PAA), fast bilateral filtering (FBF), and fast Fourier transform plus highpass 
filtering (FFTpHF) respectively. Each of modules integrated automatic approaches of multi-
illuminants whit-point estimation, locally adaptive white-point conversion using gray 
balancing LUT (look-up-table) method via CIECAM02 color appearance modeling, tone and 
color-gamut mappings (Lo et al. 2003), and finally multi-spectral type of CIEXYZ camera 
characterization.   
 
Figure 1. Working flow of HDR imaging computation framework model across media. 
 
 
3. EXPERIMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION 
 
White-point Conversion To correct white-points mismatch problems, the transformation of 
white points, based on a defined appearance connection space reference viewing condition, 
was adopted in this study. The adopted white point was the standard illuminant D65 (i.e. 
Xw=95.02, Yw=100, and Zw=108.81); Yb=20, LA=63.6619; Surround=Average. However, to 
perform white-point transform (or conversion) for complex food images, camera calibration 
and characterization using a gray-balancing LUT method were preliminarily conducted. The 
analysis was based on measurements of color appearance under each of three view conditions, 
considered in A, D50, and D65 illuminants (or simulators). 
In the context of color-appearance matching, the link between camera/RGB and 
illuminants-independent) representation was established for each illuminant of interest. The 
illuminants-independent representation was appearance-correlates data, such as red-green and 
yellow-blue opponent dimension (a and b), lightness (J), chroma (C), hue quadrature (H), 
colorfulness (M), and brightness (Q). A GretagMacbeth Digital ColorChecker SG target was 
used as a training and test data set. The preliminarily experimental procedure of camera 
calibration and characterization for each tested illuminant is outlined as follows: 
1. Generate 3D LUT from all combination of R, G, and B levels for a total of 113 lattice 
points in the source RGB space. 
2. Calculate the CIEXYZ and CIELAB values with the Adobe RGB (1998) color image 
encoding, and then the corresponding color-appearance correlates (i.e. J, a, b, C, H, M, 
Q, and S) under the defined appearance connection space reference viewing condition. 
3. Measure the spectral reflectance data of the SG target, and then calculate the CIEXYZ, 
CIELAB, and also corresponding color-appearance correlates under the defined 
reference viewing condition.  
  
light sources (such as the red bulb in Fig. 3). The analysis from results strongly suggested 
that, to prove the performance of the proposed approach, the local white-point estimation and 
conversion algorithm applied in the multi-illuminants HDR imaging modules needs to further 
take those “chromatic” illuminants, into account. 
 
 
(a)Original (b) PAA (c)FBF 
 
(d) FFTpHF 
Figure 2. Resulting images for watermelons and grapes respectively lit by light source similar 
to A and lit D65 illuminants.  
 
(a)Original (b)PAA (c)FBF 
 
(d)FFTpHF 
Figure 3. Resulting images for watermelons and other foods respectively lit by red bulb and 
D50 simulator.  
Finally, via the ideal CIEXYZ camera model, which was developed previously to mitigate 
metamerism problems often practically happened in cross-media imaging systems (Lo et al. 
2010), the multi-spectrally illuminant-independent type of HDR food images could be further 
produced and used as representation of originals in cross-media HDR food-store  imaging 
applications. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 This research has mainly supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan for 
financial assistance. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
Lo, M. C., H. S. Chen, and C. P. Chueh. 2003. The Design of Advanced Gamut Mapping Algorithms 
in Color Management Systems. In TAGA, Proceedings. 
Lo M. C., T. H. Hsieh, R. K. Perng, J. Q. Chen. 2010, High-Dynamic Range Imaging Techniques 
Based on Both Color-Separation Algorithms Used in Conventional Graphic Arts and the Human 
Visual Perception Modeling, SPIE-IS&T/Vol. 7537 75370M-1~75370M-8 (Electronic Imaging 
01/2010). 
Durand F., and J. Dorsey. 2002. Fast Bilateral Filtering for the Display of High Dynamic Range 
Images, SIGGRAPH 2002 
Pattanaik S. N., J. A. Ferwerda, M. D. Fairchild, and D. P. Greenberg. 1998. A Multiscale Model of 
Adaptation and Spatial Vision for Realistic Image Display, in SIGGRAPH 98 Conference 
Proceedings, ACM SIGGPAPH, 287-298. 
Address: Mei-Chun Lo, Department of Information Management, 
Shih Hsin Univ., No.1, Lane17, Sec. 1, Mu-Cha Rd., Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-mails: mcl@cc.shu.edu.tw,  jllin@cc.shu.edu.tw, hsinkai662@hotmail.com  
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：羅梅君 計畫編號：98-2221-E-128-006- 
計畫名稱：結合「〝全域型和區域型〞色修正和白平衡自動優化」與『〝寬頻型和頻譜型〞跨媒體色彩
轉換」的〝多照明體高動態範圍原景〞HDR 成像技術 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 0 100% 中華印刷科技年報 CAGST2011 
研究報告/技術報告 1 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
2010 多媒體傳播
科技應用國際研
討會(兩篇) 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 1 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100% 馬欣愷、林宗佑 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 2 0 100% 
人次 
江瑞璋、張秉君 
期刊論文 0 2 100% 
Life Science 
Journal 
(invited)--2 
papers 
國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
