 
 
 
 
摘要 
 
本研究為延續前期之工作由國立台灣大學附屬醫院最新進之 MRA 醫療影像設備進行
真人之主動脈掃瞄、並配合影像處理掃描所獲得資料進行主動脈計算流體力學分析，本期
將發展考慮血液動力與血管壁交互作用之流固耦合模式。以整合 Eulerian 和 Lagrangian
之統一座標下應用於人工壓縮不可壓縮流方程式，並發展可變形血管動態模擬並考慮血液
與血管壁之交互作用。在統一座標下，流體方程式和幾何方程式以守恆形式呈現並且於每
個時間歩階同步更新。根據統一座標方法判斷幾何守恆之準確性並且控制網格的速度，避
免移動血管之壁面或是靠近表面之邊界層上網格嚴重變形。本團隊研究證明在 MRA 下動脈
血液流體運動之模擬地可行性，本研究已完成三維統一座標中發展血液動力流體之流固耦
合反應模式，考慮血液與血管壁之交互作用，分析結果將與影像處理掃描所獲得結果互相
驗證、以期更精確模擬出血液流動之行為，作為提供安全血壓值及醫生臨床主動脈手術及
用藥之參考範圍。 
 
為期兩年之計畫： 
 
第一年，我們將推導出統一座標下，二維及三維人工壓縮法之Navier-Stokes方程式和相關
性之特徵系統。將適用的壁面移動模式和複雜血管彈性模式納入於統御方程式作為數值模
式。以MRA 影像處理掃描所獲得的實例中，驗證在統一座標下之流固耦合模式並且應用
於二維之血管流體模擬。第二年，我們將使用MRA影像技術完成人體血管之壁面移動，
之後修改現行的血管壁面模式，更準確的模擬流固耦合及相關的血液流體行為及壓力，剪
力形式。我們也將發展三維血液動力含流固耦合程式並且選擇真實的實例，驗證統一座標
下流固耦合之精確性。 
 
Abstract 
To continue our previous efforts on the simulation of a human aortic flow based on the 
techniques of CFD and MR phase-contrast velocimetry in National Taiwan University Hospital, 
 
 
 
Keywords: fluid-structured interaction, incompressible flow, parallel computation, Chorin’s 
artificial compressibility 
 
 
Introduction 
Moving body simulation is one of attractive topics in the Computational Fluid Dynamics 
(CFD) area. Recently, several techniques of moving body simulation are applied on the study of 
bio-fluid dynamics problems such as blood flows through vessels and organs, also flapping 
wings. The key issue to achieve accurate simulation on these topics is required to reply moving 
grid or dynamic mesh algorithm. One common way to deal with dynamic mesh is rely on the so-
called Lagrangian method. Computational cells in the Lagrangian coordinates, on the other hand, 
are literally fluid particles. Consequently, it is capable of producing sharp slip line resolution due 
to no convective flux across cell interfaces with minimized numerical diffusion. However, the 
disadvantage is that the computational cells exactly follow fluid particles always brings severe 
grid deformation, causing inaccuracy and even breakdown of the computation once the fluid 
velocity is used as the mesh moving velocity, To prevent this from happening, the most famous 
Lagrangian method in use at the present time—the arbitrary Lagrangian–Eulerian (ALE) 
technique—uses continuous rezoning. However, ALE requires continuous interpolations of flow 
variables and computational geometry that may result in unnecessary numerical inaccuracy. 
Recently, to understand the connection between the Lagrangian method and the Eulerian 
appraoch, an unified Eulerian and Lagrangian coordinate transformation was proposed by Hui et 
al [2, 3] to solve the Euler equations and achieve sharp of resolution of the contact line correctly. 
As we know, in the frame work of unified coordinates approach, the fluid equations and 
geometric evolution equations are written in a combined conservative form, which is different 
from the fluid equations alone in the pure Eulerian approach. The hybrid type coordinate system 
considers the flow variables to be functions of time and of some permanent identification of 
pseudo-particles which move with velocity hq, q being the velocity of fluid particles. It includes 
the Eulerian coordinates as special case when h = 0 and the Lagrangian when h = 1. The unified 
coordinate system decides the grid velocity set to be hq , where q is the fluid velocity and h is a 
parameter which is determined by constraint conditions, such as the mesh alignment with the slip 
surface, or keeping grid angle during the mesh movement. Therefore, the grid velocity can be 
 
 
 
Where               
2
2
2
0 0 0 0
0 1 0 0
, , , ,
0 0 1 0
0 0 0 1
p u v w
u u p uv uw
Q E F T N
v uv v p vw
w uw vw w p
β β β⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟+⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟= = = = =⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟+⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟+⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
 
Based on the transformation of unified coordinate 
 
dt d
dx hud Ad Ld Pd
dy hvd Bd Md Q d
dz hwd Cd Nd Rd
λ
λ ξ η ζ
λ ξ η ζ
λ ξ η ζ
=⎧⎪ = + + +⎪⎨ ′= + + +⎪⎪ = + + +⎩
          (2) 
where h is an arbitrary function of coordinates (λ, ξ, η, ζ ) and u, v, w are x-, y- and z- 
component of  the fluid velocity q ,  Re is the so-called Reynolds number, β is pseudo 
compressibility factor; respectively. Let 
                                                    hD hu hv hw
Dt t x y z
∂ ∂ ∂ ∂≡ + + +∂ ∂ ∂ ∂                             (3) 
denotes the material  following the pseudo-particle, whose velocity is hq . Then it is easy to 
show that 
                                                          0, 0, 0h h hD D D
Dt Dt Dt
ξ η ζ= = =                                     (4) 
That is, the curvilinear coordinate are material functions of the pseudo-particles, and hence are 
their permanent identifications. Accordingly, computational cells move and deform with pseudo-
particles, rather than with fluid particles as in Lagrangian coordinates. Furthermore, the 
geometrical state variables satisfy the compatibility conditions as  
 
, , , , ,A hu L hu P hu B hv M hv Q hv C hw N hw R hw,  , ,
λ ξ λ λ λ ξ λ λ λ ξ λ λη ζ η ζ η ζ
′∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂= = = = = = = = =∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂   (5) 
From the above transformation matrix, the governing equation becomes 
v v vE F GQ E F G
λ ξ η ζ ξ η ζ
∂ ∂ ∂∂ ∂ ∂ ∂+ + + = + +∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂   (6) 
 
Where Q is a preserved variable vector, E , F  and G  are flux vectors and vE , vF vG  are viscous 
terms. Like 
 
 
 
 
along the whole tube and vessel. Also, the wall mesh velocity can be estimated based on the last 
two wall displacements during the previous two time steps to achieve the second-order accurate 
estimation. Then, the new wall position and mesh velocity are substituted into the fluid solver 
and the related boundary conditions. Therefore, the updated pressure load can be re-predicted 
and a cycle of simulation fluid-structure interaction during the same time step is completed until 
the fluid-structure interaction is repeated until mass conservation criteria is satisfied in the fluid 
solver. However, the strategy of wall motion estimation may result in the moving grid distortion 
to produce excessive numerical errors. To avoid numerical instability, the geometry conservation 
included in equation (6) and a grid re-generation may be the necessary procedure.  
Numerical Results 
 
In the numerical flux approximation, one three-order accurate upwinding flux extrapolation 
for the derivatives Eξ∂  which have the form. A third-order upwind flux at the cell interface is 
defined by 
                                      1 1 1 1 1
2 2 2 2 2
1
1 1[ ( ) ( )]  [ ]
2 6j ji i i i i
E EQ EQ E E E E+ + − −++ − + + += + + Δ −Δ +Δ −Δ                             (8) 
Where The flux difference is taken as 
                                                   1 1
2 2
( )
i i
E A Q Q± ±+ +Δ = Δ                                                        (9) 
where A represents the Jacobian matrix.   The +A and −A matrices are computed first by forming a 
diagonal matrix of the positive eigenvalues and multiplying through by the similarity transform, 
and since the +A matrix plus the −A  matrix equals the original Jacobian matrix, we have 
 
                                                         
           
         1
+−
−+
−=
Λ=
AAA
XXA                                                (10) 
where X is the matrix of right eigenvectors of A , 1−X  is its inverese. The flux difference is 
evaluated at the midpoint by using the average of Q:  
 
                                                      1 11 ( )2 j jQ Q Q+ += +                                                    (11) 
The eigenvectors in (11) of equation (6) as shown in [4] linearly independent, forming a 
 
 
 
Overall, the two trajectories are close to each other and have an identical slope.  The vorticity 
field at four instants during a full rotation of the airfoil is also presented in Fig. 2(b). Thirdly, to 
perform numerical simulation on an aortic tube under fluid-structured interaction, one cycle of 
heartbeats is 0.855 seconds according to MRI data. The equation (6) was solved for a peak 
Reynolds number of 5000 at the inlet of ascending of aorta and numerical boundaries were 
chosen based on flow conditions: (i) MRA scanned flow rate [6] at the inlet of ascending aorta (ii) 
Surface traction free and zero velocity gradients at the outlet of descending aorta. (iii) MRA 
scanned flow rates at the outlet of three branches (iv) Grid velocity as the vessel wall velocity 
condition. Then, the final results were achieved at the fifth cycle of the computation which was 
starting from the initial conditions as zero velocity. Velocity vectors and shear stress 
distributions on vessel walls on the cross sections of the aorta are shown in our computations as 
in Figure 3 and 4. The computed averaged shear stresses along aortic wall with and without 
elastic assumptions are observed. It is noted that a computed peak value of the wall shear stress 
along the aortic wall at the aortic arch and the wall shear stress drop at downstream of the aortic 
arch during t =2/4 T. These phenomena may be resulted from the variation of the vessel diameter 
and the presence of the bifurcation. The inlet flow rate approaches zero in the late diastole, so the 
wall shear stress distributions are approaching flat. It demonstrates that wall shear stresses were 
highly dynamic, but were generally high along the vicinity of the branches and low along the 
lesser curvature, particularly in the descending thoracic aorta. The maximum wall shear stress 
distribution is presented on the aortic arch in the late systole.  
 
Elastic stenotic tube 
 
Figure 9 demonstrates that a completed cycle of the velocity contours in an elastic 
stenotic tube. The computation is performed based on a 200x51 grid cells. The non-dimensional 
geometrical parameters are as follows: inlet diameter 1; pre-stenosis length 5, and stenosis 
length 1; a long post-stenosis domain 31 are chosen in order to minimize the influence of 
downstream boundary conditions. In order to avoid considering the turbulence effects, a mild 
stenosis with only 25% area reduction is considered. The flow was assumed to be laminar, 
incompressible and Newtonian, and the walls only deform in the radial direction with the grid 
velocity obtained from equation (7). Therefore the  h value is floating with grid velocity at each grid 
 
 
 
aortic arch during the systole and the early diastole, and then changed to be a negative peak 
during the late diastole.  
 
The computation is very time consuming for time accurate and pseudo-time evolutions in 
the above calculations. The parallel computation technology is very necessary in the three-
dimensional cases. In our parallel computation tests, the test results also display very promising 
potential of parallel processing as shown in Table. The original standard FORTRAN based 
incompressible Navier-Stokes code coupled with a linear elasticity model was converted to be a 
MPI based solver, also, it was tested on IBM SP2 690A parallel System. The parallel system is 
consisted of  415.2 GFLOPS with 96 CPUs Multiprocessor (SMP) nodes connected by High-
performance switches, each node contains four POWER3 processors, four GB of main memory 
and 192 GB of hard disk. The clock rate of the processor is 1.9 GHz. The Floating Peak 
Performance of each processor is SPECcfp2000 of 1898. Each processor comprises eight 
execution units, a 32 KB instruction cache, 64 KB data cache and an on-board bus interface unit. 
There are three fixed point units, two floating point units, two load/store units and one 
branch/dispatch unit in each processor. The MPI code is paralleled along both the longitude and 
latitude. The tested result of the model is shown in table. The model results were then carefully 
validated to ensure that the two versions of the model produce virtually the same result. We have 
made several test runs and the results are summarized in Table A.  Apparently, the concept of 
parallel processing suited the current dual-time Navier Stokes Solver very well. The model can 
take advantage of the MPI code fully, since minimal amount of data transfer among CPUs is 
required for solving the governing equation explicitly. A significant reduction of computing time 
in running the model and a almost linear speed up rate is achieved up to 32 CPUs in all the 
different data partition. The speed up rate is as high as 32 for using 64 processors at the same 
time. It provides very promising potential for prompt diagnosis using modern CFD technology. 
 
 
Concluded Remarks 
z In this paper, an unsteady artificial compressibility solver for moving body simulation 
based on unified coordinate approach is proposed and developed.  In the framework of 
unified coordinates, a unified moving body approach, include the unsteady 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 A plot of 64 x 64 x 64 grid distribution and flow patterns for a 3D driven cavity flow (Re=3200) 
 
 
(a) Numerical validation of the trajectory of a falling airfoil  (the red solid line--- the measured data [6], 
the  dashed line--- simulation) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                          (a) 1/4 T                 (b) 2/4 T 
 
(c) 3/4 T                 (d) 4/4T 
 
Figure 4 the shear stress distributions along the Aortic vessel during a full cardic cycle (Re=5000) 
 
 
 
t=0/19 T 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               t=15/19 T     
 
Figure9 Velocity contour plots in a pulsatile cycle for a deformable tube 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 ： ； ； Variations of pressure at wall for Reynolds numbers 100 200 ； ：400 600  from 
X=4 to X=7 at time=3/4 T 
 
 
 
 
Journal of Computational Physics, 2 (1967) 12-26 
[2] W. H. Hui, P. Y. Li, and Z. W. Li, ”A Unified Coordinate System for Solving the Two- 
Dimensional Euler Equations ,” J. Comput. Physics, 153,596-637, 1999  
[3] W. H. Hui and S.  Koudriakov . “A Unified Coordinate System for Solving the Three-
Dimensional Euler Equations”, Journal of Computational Physics, 2001, 172: 235-260 
[4] Yang-Yao Niu, Yi-Hsun Lin, W. H. Hui, Chien C. Chang. International Journal for 
Numerical Methods in Fluids 61(9):1029-1052 (2009) 
[5] Yang-Yao Niu*, Chih-Hung Chang, Wen-Yih I. Tseng and Hsu-Hsia Pen , “A  Transient 
HLLC type Incompressible Riemann Solver and  Application on Aortic Flows Simulation  “, 
Communications in Computational Physics, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 142-16, 2009 
[6] A. Andersen, U. Persavento and Z. J. Wang, Unsteady aerodynamics of fluttering and 
tumbling plates, J. Fluid Mech., 541 (2005), 65-90 
業界相關研究人員出席或發表論文。在會場上並有學會與出版商提供各種工程
相關專業書刊與資料，以及軟體廠商提供電腦  模擬所需的軟體，使參加者皆
有受益匪淺的感覺。 
. 
  從事計算力學的研究人員，有從理論上去探討，有從實驗上去觀察，也有從
電腦上去模擬，以發掘其中的奧祕。近幾年來由於電腦的快速發展，使得研究
人員使用電腦的機會大為增加。探討理論者借助電腦來推衍方程式，實驗觀察
者仰賴電腦收集與分析大量的數據資料，電腦模擬者更是運用電腦來分析各種
問題。而計算力學在工程上更是一個日益受重視的領域，不僅因為電腦模擬技
術的精進，更由於電腦模擬快速有效的解決許多工程上的問題。 
. 
  在十餘年前，電腦的使用尚未普及，一般工程的問題多仰賴實驗與理論
分析。不僅花費的時間冗長，費用龐大，更由於體能與實驗材料的限制，
許多複雜的問題不容易獲得理想的答案。但是在沒有更理想的方法之前，
對於未知的事項只能以相關的經驗去克服。直到 80 年代以後大型與快速的
電腦漸普及，電腦容量亦可應付各種研究的需求，因此計算模擬分析便成
為工程研究中的一個主要分支，在工程研討會中接近半數的研究報告是屬
於此一範疇，可見一斑。參加國際性的相關研討會，可說是最直接也是最
有效的方式。透過與國際上學有專精的專家學者交流並交換意見，以獲得
最新最完整的流體工程研究資訊，並了解發展趨勢，提供給國內研究人員，
作最佳的服務。尤其在今日隨電腦科技的突飛猛進，各種計算方法日新月
異，許多過去無法嘗試的技巧，都逐步進入實用階段，面對如此的環境，
端賴期刊、書籍已無法應付此種變遷，因此在民國 98 年 11 月 30 日至 8月
3日由本人出席了2009年International Computational Mechanics (ICACM)
工程會議。本次會議我與國科會台法幽蘭多相流計畫成員(樹德科技大學胡
舉軍教授，台灣大學曾予恆教授，台灣大學薛克民教授，暨南國際大學戴
義欽教授，中央研究院郭志禹博士與法國尼斯大學 Boniface.NKONGA 教
授，南特大學 Christophe.Berthon 教授，合組一個論壇，就兩相流的數值
方法進行討論。 
 
  本次會議的地點在Hong Kong & Macau。會議於11月29日開始辦理報到註
冊，主辦單位同時展示一些會議相關論文集及專業書刊，並有部份工作人員舉
行會議前之準備集會。接下來的四天為正式的會議，包括專題演講、邀請演講、
專題討論及論文發表等議程。由於計算力學涵蓋範圍廣泛，參加人數眾多，大
會依專業細分為26大項，論文發表以20個場地同時進行，共計有200場，每場
約有5～6篇論文，會場外的大廳有軟體廠商、出版商廠商的展示。由於場次眾
多，個人僅能選擇性的參與部份論文發表。大會的子題包括了： 
 
• CAD, CAM and CAE  
• Adaptive Materials Systems, Structures and Smart Material  
• Biomechanics  
• Electromagnetism  
• Engineering Sciences and Physics  
• Environmental Science and Engineering  
• Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer  
• Geomechanics, Geographic Information Systems  
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
