 1
中文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
  在各式的多重存取技術中，正交分頻多工存取(OFDMA)被視為是最有潛力的技術，因為它提供了在
時間與頻率向度上的彈性來進行資源的分配，而如何在頻譜使用效率與服務品質保證之間取得平衡，
對系統的整體效能來說將是一個關鍵的問題，而一般來說，我們必須同時考量MAC層與PHY層來設計，
而本計畫就是研究OFDMA網路的資源管理，主要的研究成果分成以下兩點。 
  首先我們研究了有名的比例公平排程器，它在現在的網路中，如1xEV-DO或HSDPA，均可以有效地
提供傳輸率與公平性之間的平衡，但是當應用於寬頻無線網路下，由於使用者的資料量差異性很大，
將會有嚴重的問題，主要是因為它只考慮了平均的吞吐量，將會由先服務低速率的使用者，造成不公
平性。因此本計畫提出了一個廣義的比例公平排程器，利用得到的獲利來取代傳統的吞吐量，而對於
需求是服務量的網路，我們也設計出適合的獲利定義，實驗結果顯示，我們提出的方法可以提供較佳
的公平性與暫態響應。 
  另外，這些比例公平的演算法都是以子通道為單位來進行分配，其結果可能讓分配給同一個使用者
的子通道散佈於不同地方，這樣其實對於一些系統而言如IEEE 802.16(或稱WiMAX)是不合用的，因為
為了要降低控制訊息的overhead，它的設計是鄰近的子通道形成一個burst然後分配給一個使用者。因此
本計畫提出了一個完整的方法來提供即時性服務的延遲與遺失保證，包含了一個區塊的子通道分配演
算法與一個允入控制法，實驗結果顯示，我們的方法可以提供服務品質保證並同時兼顧頻譜效能。 
  關鍵詞: 正交分頻多工存取、排程器、允入控制、服務品質保證、跨層設計 
 
英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
Among various multiple-access strategies, orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) is the 
most promising one because it provides the flexibility of allocating resources in both time and frequency 
domains. Compromise between spectrum efficiency and quality of service (QoS) is very critical about the 
overall performance. To deal with this complex task, usually we need to consider not only MAC layer but also 
PHY layer. This project focuses on the resource management of OFDMA networks and has two main research 
outcomes.  
First, we studied the popular proportional fairness scheduler (PF) which is proved effective for trade-off 
between system throughput and fairness in packet networks such as 1xEV-DO and HSDPA. We found a fatal 
problem when applying it for broadband networks with heterogeneous traffic. It is because the PF scheduler 
only considers the average throughput, which will favor users with low data rate. We proposed a generalized 
PF scheduler which considers the profit instead of the average throughput. For networks where user demands 
are required data rate, we also proposed a proper way to calculate the profile. Simulation results show that the 
proposed scheduler can provide better fairness and transient behavior. 
Because basically all fairness scheduling algorithms are performed on subchannel basis, the subchannels 
allocated to a user may not be adjacent. As a result, they are not suitable for some system like IEEE 802.16 
(WiMAX) where adjacent subchannels are grouped as a burst for a user to reduce the signaling overhead. We 
proposed a complete solution to provide delay and loss rate guarantee for real-time services. Our solution 
consists of a block subchannel allocation algorithm and a corresponding admission control scheme. 
Simulation results show that our solution can provide QoS guarantee with high spectrum efficiency. 
Keywords: OFDMA, scheduler, admission control, QoS, cross layer 
 3
effective in packet data networks, such as 1xEV-DO and HSDPA. The authors in [3] derived the criteria of 
proportional fairness to the case with multiple carriers, but the implementation complexity is high. A 
straightforward way is to perform PF scheduling on the subchannel basis [2]. A major problem of such 
implementation is that the average throughput drops when a user is idle. Once it becomes active, its low 
average throughput makes the PF scheduler allocate too many resources for it. Ruangchaijatupon and Ji [4] 
proposed a simple scheme called OFDMA frame-based proportional fairness (OFPF) which integrates a rate 
holding mechanism to mitigate this issue.  
In traditional wireless networks, data rate is low and traffic is served in the best-effort manner. However, 
future broadband wireless networks aim at providing differentiated services for diverse applications such as 
voice, video, and data. Because the range of arrival data rate is wide, the PF scheduler is no longer fair 
because it tries to maintain fairness of received throughputs between users. For a user with low arrival rate, its 
throughput will be low too and has higher priority over others. In case that there are many low rate users, 
users with high data rate will starve under high load condition. This phenomenon will be shown in our 
simulation results. 
2.2 Resource management in IEEE 802.16 
The IEEE Standards 802.16-2004 [7] and 802.16e-2005 [8] specify the requirements for the Medium 
Access Control (MAC) and Physical (PHY) layers of WiMAX and mobile WiMAX systems. One important 
feature of WiMAX is QoS guarantee for a variety of services such as voice, data, and multimedia. For wired 
equipments such as Ethernet switches and ATM switches, QoS is done by a scheduler with some kind of 
service discipline [9-12]. With OFDMA technology where multiple packets can be simultaneously transmitted 
with different speed at different subchannels, the BS needs to consider both the channel conditions for 
spectrum efficiency and the traffic backlog for QoS guarantee, resulting in a cross layer design. At the 
beginning of each frame, the BS will perform resource allocation and broadcast the usage of subchannels.  
The authors in [13-16] formulated the subchannel allocation problem as an optimization process with some 
design constraints such as power or throughput, but the QoS requirement cannot be guaranteed because the 
traffic backlog is not considered. Some fair scheduling algorithms [17-19] were proposed to provide fairness 
between users. Because these algorithms are on per subchannel basis, the allocated subchannels of a user may 
be not adjacent and thus these algorithms are not complied with the standard. Recently, rectangle mapping 
algorithms were proposed in [20, 21] for WiMAX networks, but it is not suitable for multiuser diversity 
approach because the same modulation is assumed for all users at all subchannels. Most of these systems have 
no corresponding admission control method. Without proper admission control of new connections, the QoS 
of existing connections cannot be guaranteed. Since the design of admission control heavily depends on the 
resource allocation algorithm, the trade-off between complexity and efficiency should be made while 
developing a WiMAX system. 
3. System Design 
This project considers a frame-based time division duplex OFDMA system where each fixed-length frame 
is divided into a downlink subframe and an uplink subframe as shown in Fig. 1. There are one BS and several 
MSs and We may use mobile station and user interchangeably to refer to the same entity. The resource is 
 5
holding mechanism by which the average throughput is not updated and remains the same during the idle 
period. If the discussed user idles too long, the network loading may change and the held average throughput 
becomes invalid. To solve this issue, we propose a new updating method presented below. Our idea comes 
from traditional scheduling technology.  
Among scheduling algorithms, weighted fair queueing (WFQ) [5] is the most important one for providing 
bounded delay, guaranteed throughput, and fairness between flows over a unidirectional link. A WFQ 
scheduler computes the virtual finishing time tags of all head-of-line packets and serves packets according 
these tags. The computation of the time tags depends on packet arrival times, WFQ weights, packet lengths, 
and the virtual time of the system. The major drawback of WFQ schedulers is that the computation 
complexity of virtual time is high because it depends only on the active users in system. Golestani [6] 
proposed a simple scheme called self-clocked fair queueing which approximates the virtual time by the virtual 
finishing time tag of the packet being served. It motives us to design the procedure to update the profit for idle 
users for the GPF scheduler. At the beginning of (t+1)th frame, we update the average throughputs by 
equation (7) for users that have new packets in the current frame, but are idle in the previous frame.  
*
* arg min{ ( )}, { ( ) 0},
( 1) max{ ( )* , ( )} if ( ) 0,  
i ii
n n n ni
i P t i Q t
T t P t T t Q tρ
∈= = >
+ = =
C
C
 
where Qi(t) is the queue size of user i at the end of tth frame. In summary, for users with low profits, the GPF 
scheduler will update their profits to the minimum profit among active users. 
3.2 Block Subchannel Allocation and Admission Control in WiMAX 
In order to increase the multiuser diversity, the adjacent subcarrier permutation (AMC) permutation is 
considered throughout this project. WiMAX is a centralized system where BS allocates the resource and 
broadcasts the information at the beginning of each frame in the DL-MAP and UL-MAP fields for DL and UL 
connections respectively. A data region of a connection is called a burst which is composed of a 
two-dimensional allocation of a group of contiguous subchannels in a group of contiguous OFDMA symbols. 
A burst is characterized by the start symbol offset, the start subchannel offset, the number of allocated 
symbols, and the number of subchannels for DL, or by the slot offset and the duration for UL. As a result, we 
need to allocate a block of resource to a connection each time, not on a subchannel basis.  
For real-time variable bit rate (VBR) applications such as voice and video, packet delay is very critical and 
a packet with long delay is useless. These real-time applications usually variably generate packets and 
sometimes the aggregated traffic of all connections may be larger than the system capacity, resulting in packet 
loss. Fortunately, most real-time applications can tolerate little packet loss. Therefore, the QoS requirements 
for real-time applications are the delay bound and the loss rate, denoted respectively by D and PL. Since 
WiMAX is centralized, the BS is responsible for resource allocation and admission control. When there is a 
request of a new connection, we need an admission control module implemented in the BS to check if current 
resource is enough to serve it. Once it is admitted, the BS updates necessary parameters and performs 
allocation of resource for each frame. 
In a WiMAX network, the resource allocation should be adjusted on a frame-by-frame basis to efficiently 
serve the dynamic real-time traffic. If all backlogged connections are considered in the same frame, the 
 7
DL or UL MAPs. The basic idea is to adjust the boundary according to current DL and UL queue sizes. Let 
QD and QU be the total queue sizes of DL and UL respectively. To deal with the case that DL and UL traffic is 
extremely unbalanced, we restrict the ratio of the number of DL symbols to that of UL symbols from 4:7 to 
7:4. To have better granularity, we adopt the AMC permutation where each slot consists of two symbols. 
Therefore, the number of symbols for a subframe should be multiple of 2. Let sD and sU be the numbers of 
symbols allocated to DL subframe and UL subframe. The procedure is described as follows: 
1:  round (48 4) * / 2 *2.    
2 :  if ( 28)  28,
     elseif ( 16) 16;
3 :  44 .
D
D
D U
D D
D D
U D
Qs
Q Q
s s
s s
s s
⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞= −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟+⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠
> =
< =
= −  
 
Fig. 1 The meaning of li 
3.2.2 Block subchannel allocation algorithm 
After the boundary is determined, the subchannels are allocated frame by frame to the end of SI. To prevent 
some MSs with poor channel quality from starvation, the average loss rate of each connection should be 
considered, too. Therefore, we design a utility function combining the two types of information to determine 
the priority value of each connection. Then, subchannels are allocated to a connection with highest priority. 
Subchannels are allocated sequentially, and m is the current starting subchannel number for allocating. For a 
given s, li is the smallest number of subchannels to serve the backlog qi of connection i. We will check all 
possible MCSs starting from m, and find the contiguous subchannels to serve the backlog with a given MCS. 
Fig. 2 shows an example of li, where there are two possible MCSs. Though we can use 4 subchannels with 
MCS1 to serve the backlog, there are 4 unused subchannels, resulting in 8 subchannels in total. Because we 
try to use as less subchannels as possible, we will select MCS2 and li is equal to 7. The unused subchannels 
can be used to serve best-effort traffic after the allocation of real-time traffic.  
Let s be either sDL or sUL, and U denotes the set of un-allocated connections. Assuming that one SI consists 
of k frames, the detail pseudo codes are listed as follows. 
1 :for h = 1 to k 
2 :  m = 1. 
3 :  while (1) 
4 :     Calculate all li for all connection in U. 
5 :     If all li  are null, break the while loop. 
6 :     Select the connection u with maximum utility function value as  
 9
average due to multiuser diversity. As a result, we add a scaling factor γ and the mean and variance of Yi are 
estimated by  
 
 
 
 
It is obvious that the value of γ play an important role in the estimation of required resource. Based on our 
experiments, γ is set to 1.25 in our simulation. 
Let Z denote the aggregated numbers of subchannels in one SI and Z is equal to the summation of Yi. 
According to Lyapunov's central limit theorem, the summation of independent random variables will converge 
to a Gaussian random variable. Therefore, we model Z by N(μ,σ) and we have  
 
 
 
 
For a given loss rate, the final step is to determine the required number of subchannels in one SI, which is 
denoted by r. For ease of representation, we express r by r=μ+α*σ. Let p be the estimated loss rate and it can 
be calculated by  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To simply the computation, we approximate the loss by -( ) ( )rp Q Qμ ασ≈ = . For a given PL, we can search 
the optimal value for α by looking up the table of Q function. After α is got, we can calculate r and check if r
≦k*N holds or not, where N is the total number of subchannels per frame. If it holds, we use the same process 
to check the UL part. The new connection can be admitted only if the two tests are both passed. 
4. Simulation Results 
4.1 PF schedulers for OFDMA networks 
Each user has one VBR flow which generates traffic at the beginning of a frame. The number of packets 
generated in a frame is modeled by a Possion distribution with mean equal to λ. The packet length is an 
exponential distribution with mean equal to L. The required data rate ρi is set to the mean data rate equal to 
λ*L/Tf where Tf is the frame duration. The important system parameters are listed in Table 1. We also 
implement PF, OFPF, and the maximum sum rate (MSR) algorithm for comparison. 
 
2
( )( ) ,    
* *
( )( ) .
( * * )
i
i
i D
i
i
i D
E XE Y
g s
VAR XVAR Y
g s
γ
γ
=
=
  ( ),
  ( ).    
D
D
i
i
i
i
E Y
VAR Y
μ
σ
∈
∈
=
=
∑
∑
A
A
2
2
2
-( - )
2
-
2
( - ) ( )(( - ) )         
- -  ( )  -  ( ) ,
2
1where ( )   .
2
Zr
r
x
c
Z r f z dzE Z rp
r r rQ e Q
Q c e dx
μ
σ
μ μ
μ σ μ
σ μ σμ π
π
∞
+
∞
= =
⎡ ⎤= + ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
=
∫
∫
 11
the GPF scheduler tends to allocated resource proportional to the required rate. 
 
Figure 2. Transient behaviors for (a) GPF, (b) OFPF, (c) PF, and (d) MSR schedulers. 
The second experiment is used to observe the transient behaviors for different schedulers. There are 6 users 
in the system with similar channel condition (no extra loss). The required data rates for all users are the same 
and equal to 5Mbps. All users generate constant rate at 5Mbps (equivalent to 3125 bytes per frame). User 1 
stops sending data at 1000th frame. At 1100th frame, it generates 10Mbps for 10 frames. After 1110th frame, it 
is normal and generates 5Mbps again. The amount of data served in a frame for each scheduler is plotted in 
Fig. 2. To make the figures clear, we only plot the first three users. Because the GPF scheduler considers the 
required data rate, it can provide certain protection for well-behaved users, and we can see that the impact, 
caused by user 1’s burst, on other users is smallest. Although the OFPF schedule has the rate holding 
mechanism, the transient behavior is still not good. The average throughput used in the OFPF scheduler is on 
subchannel basis, not on frame basis. The average throughput of user 1 can be hold, but the average 
throughputs of other users increase because the possibility to get channel with good quality increases when 
only 5 users are active. As a result, user 1 has higher priority when it becomes active at 1100th frame. As 
expected, for the PF scheduler, all traffic of user 1 can be served without delay. Regarding to the MSR 
scheduler, the amount of served data varies a lot because it only considers the channel quality.  
4.2 Block subchannel allocation in IEEE 802.16 
Some important system parameters are listed in Table 1. Each user has one VBR connection which 
1090 1100 1110 1120 1130 1140 1150 1160
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
Frame
S
er
ve
d 
by
te
s
(a) GPF scheduler
 
 
user 1
user 2
user 3
1090 1100 1110 1120 1130 1140 1150 1160
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
Frame
S
er
ve
d 
by
te
s
(b) OFPF scheduler
 
 
user 1
user 2
user 3
1090 1100 1110 1120 1130 1140 1150 1160
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
Frame
S
er
ve
d 
by
te
s
(c) PF scheduler
 
 
user 1
user 2
user 3
1090 1100 1110 1120 1130 1140 1150 1160
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
Frame
S
er
ve
d 
by
te
s
(d) MRS scheduler
 
 
user 1
user 2
user 3
 13
We first demonstrate the benefit of dynamic boundary selection. The number of DL users is fixed at 20. By 
varying the number of UL users, we measure the loss rate and plot in Fig. 3. For fixed boundary, DL operates 
independently with UL and the loss rate remains the same no matter how the UL loading changes. However, 
for UL, we can see that the loss rate will increase dramatically for high load. On the contrary, our scheme can 
dynamically determine the proper subframe boundary, making the loss rate more balanced. Notice that sD 
decreases with the number of UL users. Because it becomes difficult to have good MCS in a short subframe, 
the loss rate of DL users becomes larger than that of UL users. Nevertheless, the requirement can still be kept. 
Since the proposed subchannel allocation scheme considers the channel effect, the second test is to check 
the performance of spectrum efficiency in terms of bytes served per slot. To the best of our knowledge, there 
is no other block allocation algorithm dealing with adaptive MCS and QoS at the same time. Therefore, we 
run simulations with Round Robin and Random disciplines for comparison. The only difference to our scheme 
is the selection method in Step 6 of the subchannel allocation algorithm. The reference schemes do not 
consider any information and select a connection in Round Robin or Random fashion. Fig. 4 shows the 
simulation results and we can see that our scheme has 30% to 50% improvement. According to the PHY 
model used in simulations, equal probability is assumed for possible MCSs and therefore the average bytes 
per slot is 18 bytes. With the constraint of block allocation, we only can select the worst MCS within the 
allocated block, resulting low efficiency. Without proper allocation, the resulting spectrum efficiency of 
Round Robin or Random disciplines is only about 14 and is below the average. On the other hand, our scheme 
considers the channel conditions and can achieve over 20 at high load. Moreover, this test also demonstrates 
the power of multiuser diversity that the spectrum efficiency increases with the number of users. 
In order to reduce the complexity, the proposed block allocation algorithm uses a simple strategy to search 
the proper block. As shown in Fig. 1, the price to pay is that some subchannels cannot be used by the real-time 
connection. Though the residual subchannel can be used by other traffic type such as best-effort, it still limits 
the capacity for real-time connections. Fig. 5 shows the subchannel occupancy that is measured by the 
percentage of occupied subchannels by real-time connections. Because our scheme can use spectrum 
efficiently, it can use less resource than other schemes at light load, and the BS has more unused subchannels 
for non-real time connections. At high load, we can see that the two reference schemes saturate at about 26 
users, and the loss rate will increase dramatically after that saturation point. On the other hand, our scheme 
can provide high subchannel occupancy with guaranteed QoS. 
Fig. 6 plots the admission region and the resulting loss rates for DL and UL at every feasible point. We can 
see that our system can keep the loss rate below the requirement. If the result is conservative, one can adjust 
the scaling factor γ to admit more users. If we carefully observe the loss rate for different combination, we can 
see that it heavily depends on the subframe size or equivalently the number of users in DL/UL. For a short 
subframe, it is relatively difficult to find a block with good MCS with a given backlog. One possible solution 
is that we can limit the value li and serve partial of backlog. The remaining backlog can be served at next 
frame in the same SI. Of course, it will increase the complexity and more investigation is required. 
5. Conclusion and Future Work 
In this project, we investigate the OFDMA systems and propose two different resource management 
schemes according to how subchannels are allocated.  
 15
[12] D. Ferrari and D. Verma, “A scheme for real-time channel establishment in wide-area networks,” IEEE J. 
Selected Areas in Commun., vol. 8, pp. 368-379, Apr. 1990. 
[13] Y. J. Zhang and K. B. Letaief. “Multiuser adaptive subcarrier-and-bit allocation with adaptive cell 
selection for OFDM systems,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, 3(4):1566–1575, 
September, 2004. 
[14] W. Rhee and J. M. Cioffi. “Increase in capacity of multiuser OFDM system using   dynamic subchannel 
allocation,” in Proc. IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, pp. 1085–1089, Tokyo, May 2000. 
[15] Z. Shen, J. G. Andrews, and B. L. Evans. “Adaptive resource allocation for multiuser    OFDM with 
constrained fairness,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 4(6):2726–2737, November, 
2005. 
[16] S. A. Filin, Sergey N. Moiseev, and Mikhail S. Kondakov, “Fast and Efficient QoS-Guaranteed Adaptive 
Transmission Algorithm in the Mobile WiMAX System,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 
vol. 57, no.6, 2008. 
[17] J. Huang and Z. Niu, “A Cross-layer Proportional Fair Scheduling Algorithm with Packet Length 
Constraint in Multiuser OFDM Networks”, in Proc. IEEE GLOBECOM, Washington, DC, USA, 2007.  
[18] N. Ruangchaijatupon and Y. Ji, “Simple Proportional Fairness Scheduling for OFDMA Frame-based 
Wireless Systems”, in Proc. IEEE WCNC, Las Vegas, USA, 2008. 
[19] W. Huang, R. Song, “A Novel QoS-Guaranteed Proportional Fairness with Joint Space-Time-Frequency 
Scheduling,” in Proc. 15th Asia-Pacific Conference on Communications, Shanghai, China, 2009.  
[20] Y. Ben-Shimol, I. Kitroser, and Y. Dinitz, “Two-Dimensional Mapping for Wireless OFDMA Systems,” 
IEEE Transaction on broadcasting, vol. 52, no. 3, September, 2006. 
[21] C. So-In, R. Jain, and A. Al-Tamimi, “eOCSA: An Algorithm for Burst Mapping with Strict QoS 
Requirements in IEEE 802.16e Mobile WiMAX Networks,” in Proc. 2nd International Conference on 
Computer and Automation Engineering, Singapore, 2010. 
[22] IEEE Standard for Information technology-Telecommunications and information exchange between 
systems-Local and metropolitan area networks-Specific requirements – “Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium 
Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications,” 2007. 
[23] W. F. Fan, D. Gao, D. H. K. Tsang, and B. Bensaou, “Admission Control for Variable Bit Rate Traffic in 
IEEE 802.11e WLANs”, in Proc. the 2004 Joint Conference of the 10th Asia-Pacific Conference on 
Communications, Beijing, China, 2004. 
[24] Y. W. Huang, T. H. Lee, and J. R. Hsieh, “Gaussian Approximation Based Admission Control for 
Variable Bit Rate Traffic in IEEE 802.11e WLANs,” in Proc. IEEE WCNC, Kowloon, China, 2007. 
 
  
12 月 15 日: 
   上午: 凌晨 3:00 由埔里出發，搭乘早上約 6:00 班機出國。 
   下午: 進入會場，報到並參加會議。 
12 月 16 日: 
   全天: 參加會議討論。 
12 月 17 日: 
   上午: 參加會議並進行口頭報告。 
   下午: 趕赴機場，搭乘傍晚班機回國。 
   晚上: 夜宿桃園過境旅館。 
12 月 18 日: 
   搭高鐵到烏日，轉公車進學校，並趕赴下午 1:00 的課。 
 
二、與會心得 
   
    本人很高興能有機會可以出國參加國際研討會，可以與國外的研究人員進行直接的
討論並了解最新的研究趨勢，可以觸發新的靈感，對於往後計畫的進行與推動，有相當
大的幫助。 
    本次發表的論文均為國科會計畫的成果，計畫編號為 96-2221-E-260-005-，是關於
無線區域網路的研究，經由計畫的補助，得以順利發表於國際研討會，經由與他國研究
人員的互動討論，聽到的自己構想的優點，獲得肯定實在令人興奮，同時也聽到了一些
建議與自己的盲點，回國後將是可以繼續研究的方向。 
    除了發表論文外，當然要去聽聽各相關的 session 的內容，印象最深刻的當然是與
本計畫相關的 WiMAX，其中談到了服務品質保證、handoff、資源配置、排程器設計，也
有另外一些談到了 3GPP LTE 的設計與分析，都讓我有些新的想法，對於本計畫的執行很
有幫助。此外，我也去聽了本身有興趣的感知無線電與感測網路相關的 session，其中
感知無線電主要在既有的無線系統下來利用它的空檔來讓第二個無線系統可以操作，如
此一來，可以讓有限的無線資源可以做最有效的運用，不過實務上還有諸多問題要去研
 報告實況 
 
議程主席頒發論文發表證書 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：郭耀文 計畫編號：98-2221-E-260-008- 
計畫名稱：IEEE 802.16 服務品質保證與資源管理之跨層設計研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100% 已完成初稿, 編修潤飾中 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 100% 
篇 
已完成初稿, 編
修潤飾中 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
