中英文摘要 
Structured ASIC 是一種新興的 IC 設計方式，它是由預先製造的電晶體，一些預先製造
的底層導線和一些已用光罩定義的上層導線所組成。它留下了一到數層的鑽孔層讓使用者
自行定義一些邏輯區塊的功能以及它們之間的連線。Structured ASIC 的光罩製作成本就如
同 FPGA，可以被分攤到數百萬預先製造的 Structured ASICs 上，因此它的非循環工程成本
（NRE）可以大量的降低。這些整齊排列成矩陣的邏輯區塊稱作 Via Configurable Logic 
Blocks(VCLB)，而那些預先製造的導線和以光罩定義的導線共同形成 routing fabric 。VCLB
和 routing fabric 決定了 Structured ASIC 是否能成功的被使用來設計 IC，故工業界所提出的
專利與學術界的研究幾乎都與它們有關。雖然現在已經有許多與 Structured ASIC 相關的研
究，但仍然還有很多未開發的領域及許多進步的空間。在這個計劃中，我們專注於 VCLB
與 routing fabric 的設計，以及發展相關之繞線工具與低功率設計方法。 
在第一年，我們完成下列工作: 
 VCLB 設計: (1)以串並聯之 CMOS 電路結構完成類似標準元件之 VCLB 設計 (2) 以
lookup-table 之 CMOS 電路結構完成類似標準元件之 VCLB 設計。 
 Routing fabric 的設計: 發展一套描述 Routing fabric 之語法與各種不同 routability 之
routing fabric。 
 建立一個以前述VCLB為基礎的元件庫: (1) 以串並聯之CMOS電路結構所形成之標準
元件庫(2) 以 lookup-table 之 CMOS 電路結構所形成之標準元件庫。 
 一個使用 ASIC 與 FPGA 工具所形成的 structured ASIC 設計流程。 
 
在第二年，我們完成下列工作: 
 完成以 4-lookup-table 之 CMOS 電路結構及佈局並完成評估以其所設計之元件庫，其
中包含提出一個新穎之元件庫時序特徵化之方法與元件庫產生的方法。 
 完成一個能使用 routing fabric 從事繞線之繞線器(router)，並將此繞線器與 Synopsys 及
Cadence 之工具整合建立一個完整之 Structured ASICs 之設計流程。接下來，我們將以
此繞線器來研究 routing fabric。 
 完成一個能使用 routing fabric 從事繞線之鐘波繞線器(clock router)，並將此鐘波繞線器
整合至上述之 Structured ASICs 設計流程。 
 完成能以 body bias 及 multi-supply voltage 來從事 power 與 timing optimization 的
VCLB 之設計。 
 
在第三年，我們完成下列工作: 
 完成數個以 3-lookup-table 之 CMOS 電路所設計而成的 VCLB，並完成評估以這些
VCLB 所建立之元件庫的評估。 
 設計一個能從事 power gating 的 VCLB 並以此 VCLB 建立一個標準元件庫。 
 建立一個能從事 power gating 之 structured ASIC 設計流程來減少 Structured ASIC 之漏
電流。 
 發展一個以統計方法來估計一個 routing fabric 的繞線資源容量 (routing resource 
capacity)。 
 完成評估 
 
 基本上，這三年來計劃執行成果還算豐碩，我們甚至有不列在原計劃之成果產出，例
如鐘波繞線器。目前已發表六篇國際會議論文，另有兩篇投稿論文，尚有許多篇正在蘊釀
中。已有九位執行此研究計劃之碩士生畢業，另有三位碩士生與一位博士生繼續從事此研
究計劃之進行。 
關鍵詞：結構化客製晶片，穿孔可程式閘陣列，規律性繞線，可程式元件 
 
 
 
一、 前言 
A structured ASIC has some pre-fabricated yet configurable logic block (CLB) arrays 
with/without a regular routing fabric [1-5] and perhaps some pre-diffused or customized IPs and 
programmable I/Os. A CLB can be via or metal-configurable. A via-configurable CLB is less 
flexible but uses fewer customizable mask layers. A regular routing fabric has repetitive patterns 
pre-defined on the higher metal layers. It is normally via-configurable and thus has fewer 
customizable and cheaper mask layers [6-9]. Some companies even advocate using only one via 
layer to customize both CLB and routing fabric [10]. As shown in Fig. 1, structured ASIC 
embraces a large mid-section of programmability spectrum [17]. One end of the spectrum is 
cell-based ASIC with non-programmable cells but programmable routing metals. The other end is 
FPGA with SRAM-based programmable cells and routing fabrics. The gaps between these two 
ends are addressed in [2]. Structured ASIC can achieve a timing performance comparable to that 
of a cell-based ASIC while using much less power than that of an FPGA. It pays only the cost of 
customizing some relatively inexpensive via layers for cells and routing and an amortized mask 
cost for the remaining layers. It enables a fast manufacturing turn-around time. Its regular routing 
fabric is instrumental in improving manufacturability [11].  
As an emerging design and implementation technology, structured ASIC has many problems 
related to designing of CLBs, especially via-configurable CLBs (VCLBs), and routing fabrics as 
well as tool development [12,13]. In this project, we will focus on various problems about 
via-configurable structured ASICs. Especially, lack of tool supports for cell library development, 
placement and routing, logic synthesis, etc. has prevented via-configurable structured ASICs from 
being widely adopted. Tool development is closely related to how VCLBs are designed. Basically, 
a VCLB should be designed to leverage mostly the existing tools and to reduce the numbers of 
customizable mask layers. Cell and routing fabric programmability has a great influence on tool 
development. Table 1 shows the programmability choices made by the major vendors 
[1,3,10,12,14,15] and research groups (the last four rows) [4,5,7]. This is by no means an 
exhaustive list. The last column indicates whether the same transistors in VCLBs can be used to 
implement combinational logic and sequential elements. As one can see, most vendors choose 
metal programmability for cells and routing fabrics. Such a choice incurs a least amount of efforts 
for tool development. For example, a placer and a router for standard cell designs can be 
customized for this kind of structured ASICs. Conversely, a new router should be developed if a 
via-programmable routing fabric is used. Moreover, VCLB layout should not complicate 
power/ground network distribution. As for cell granularity, a new logic synthesizer or a logic 
packer should be developed if a coarse grained cell (VCLB) is adopted. Besides, designing of 
VCLBs should also consider the following issues.  
 Design tool supports. 
 Basic logic functions realized by a VCLB. 
 Number of predefined metal layers in a VCLB. 
 Granularity of VCLB. 
 VCLB composability. 
 Relocation of VCLB 
 Library development efforts. 
The above is by no means an exhaustive list. These issues are co-related to each other. For 
example, the basic logic functions realized by a VCLB depend on VCLB granularity. What we 
mean by a basic logic function is a logic function that has a template in a cell library employed by 
a logic synthesis tool. A coarse-grained VCLB, especially for a look-up table based VCLB, can 
be configured to implement many basic logic functions. A fine-grained VCLB can realize a 
limited number of functions, but its composability enables us to form more complex logic 
functions using more than one VCLB instance. VCLB composition uses only the programmable 
layers dedicated to VCLB instances for implementing a basic logic function. Metal 
programmable VCLB has the highest degree of composability whereas via-programmable 
VCLBs may have or not have composability. A coarse-grained VCLB may pay a large area 
penalty due to poor utilization of transistors in VCLBs. Moreover, a coarse-grained VCLB 
complicates the library development task since library characterization should be done for a huge 
number of basic logic functions that can be realized by a VCLB. Transistor utilization of 
cost is for customizing via layers. However, a decision on the number of metal layers should not 
compromise the routability needed for completing chip design. The other factor is about the 
number of vias used for completing routing. The shorter are the wire segments, the larger the 
number of vias will be used but the higher the routability is. The higher is the logic density per 
unit area, the higher is the requirement for routing resources. All these issues are intertwined so 
that designing of routing fabric is deserved a further investigation. 
 
二、 研究目的 
In this project, we will carry out an advanced study of via-configurable logic block and 
routing fabric. In the first year, we will complete some basic VCLBs using serial-parallel CMOS 
circuits and lookup-table (pass transistors) circuits. The basic VCLB will be employed to design a 
standard cell library. We will establish a design flow using as many available commercial tools as 
possible respectively for two different kinds of standard cell libraries, one based on serial-parallel 
structured VCLB and the other based on lookup-table VCLB. We will also design several routing 
fabrics and present a grammar to describe a routing fabric. During the second year, we will 
develop VCLBs and routing fabrics for timing and power optimization using body-bias and 
multi-supply voltage. We will complete the designing of power/ground network and clock tree. 
During the third year, we will develop VCLBs and routing fabrics for power and timing 
optimization using multi-threshold voltage and power gating. We will continue to optimize 
power/ground network distribution and clock tree synthesis.  
 
三、 研究方法 
To carry out the designing of VCLBs, we need to handcraft the layout design of VCLBs. Our 
primary goal is to find a layout design that can be configured into many different logic functions 
using only vias between metal layer 1 and layer 2. Its layout style must be the same as that 
employed for standard cells so that the standard cell design tools can be adopted without any 
modification for designing a via-configurable structured ASIC. Besides, we would also like to 
have a layout design where several VCLBs can be configured into a more complicate cell such as 
D flip-flop. Such VCLB composability is very important. Based on the layout style of standard 
cells and the concept of composability, we determine the floorplans of transistors and wires in a 
VCLB so that several VCLBs of this sort can be used to implement, for example, a D flip flop 
with a reset signal. We will use this kind of VCLB to implement other combinational logic. 
Above is applied to the designing of VCLB using serial-parallel structures as well as lookup-table 
approach.  
Once the layout design of VCLB is completed, we define a via map for each logic function in 
a standard cell library. We then use a cell characterization tool [16] to create a library respectively 
for Synopsys Design Compiler and Cadence SOC encounter. We then use as many standard cell 
design tools as possible plus our own tools to establish a design flow. With this design flow, we 
can evaluate the quality of a VCLB, in terms of delay, area, and power consumption.   
To evaluate the quality of a routing fabric, we need to have a router that can employ the 
routing resources provided by the routing fabric. Since routing is quite time consuming, a 
time-efficient router should be developed. Two-level routing strategy that consists of fast global 
routing and detailed routing should be employed. A negotiation-based rip-up and reroute should 
be developed for global routing to resolve overflow and for detailed routing to complete the 
failed connections. To reduce dynamic power consumption, a dual-supply voltage strategy will be 
employed. Hence, a VCLB should be designed also to enable realization of a level-converter. A 
tool should be developed to deploy the level-converters. To reduce leakage power consumption, a 
sleep transistor with high threshold voltage will be used to curtail the leakage of a logic gate 
during idle time. A tool needs to be developed to determine the use of sleep transistors so that no 
impact on timing performance could occur. 
 
四、 結果與討論 
Basically, the outcome of this whole project is fruitful. We even have some un-expected 
results, such as a clock router, which is not originally planned. Our structured ASIC router won 
the first place prize in the exhibition of third University Tool sponsored by DAT Consortium, 
using 4-lookup table (Fig. 5) that can be used to implement any 4-input logic function. This 
layout design can also be configured into a D flip-flop. Based on this VCLB, a design flow 
similar to the one presented in Fig. 4 is established. Fig. 6 shows a chip design using our VCLBs 
of 4-input lookup-table. 
 
Define via maps 
for logic functions
Create cell library 
for Design Compiler
Perform timing 
characterization
Pack logic 
functions
Create cell library 
for SOC Encounter
Logic synthesis
Logic packing
Placement and 
legalization
Post layout 
timing analysis
Done
Design with 
packed logic cells
SOC-E  
cell library
DC cell library Design netlist
Packed logic 
blocks
Logic cell 
layouts
VCLB layout
Routing
 
Fig. 4. Library and chip design methodology for VCLB with serial-parallel transistors. 
 
00111
11111
01011
00011
01101
00101
01001
00001
01110
00110
01010
00010
01100
00100
01000
00000
ODCBA
C            C’ C         C’ C            C’ C         C’
B                       B’ B                       B’
A                                                A’
C            C’ C         C’ C            C’ C         C’
B                       B’ B                       B’
A                                                A’
GND
VDD
D
D’
GND
VDD
D
D’
VVVVVVVN
 
Fig. 5. A circuit structure for implementing 4-input lookup-table 
 
 
 
fabric has the size of a VCLB shown in Fig. 3. The wires protruding out of the block are the long 
wires used for global connections. The available routing resources given by this routing fabric are 
presented in Table 2. The column denoted by W-N gives the information about the amount of 
routing resource in west-east direction. The other column can be interpreted similarly. The row 
denoted by AVG gives the average number of passages that can be used for routing in each 
direction. STD. MAX, MIN gives the standard deviation, maximum number of passages in a 
direction, and minimum number of passages in a direction. These data are obtained by running a 
program that randomly places routing resource demands on each direction. Besides, we also 
invent a grammar to describe a routing fabric. We write a compiler to transform the grammar of a 
routing fabric into layout design.  
  
Table 2. Routing resources for a routing fabric. 
 W-N W-E W-S N-E N-S E-S Total 
STD 1.55  1.29  1.19  1.62  1.44  1.76   
MAX 8 6 7 8 7 8  
AVG 3.9  3.0  3.3  2.8  3.2  3.6  19.6  
MIN 1 1 0 0 1 0  
 
B. Results for the Second Year  
The results include (a) evaluation of cell libraries built from 4-lookup tables and development 
of related tools, (b) a structured ASIC router, (c) a clock router, (d) VCLBs supporting 
dual-supply voltage and body bias for low power applications. 
 
 Evaluation of 4-LookUp Table Cell Libraries 
We have designed a standard cell like via-configurable 4-lookup-table. This lookup table can 
implement any 4-input logic function. The problem of using this lookup table for design synthesis 
is that we can adopt a standard cell like design flow or FPGA like design flow. Adopting a 
standard cell-like design flow, we need to build a library first, and then do synthesis. Since there 
are 65536 4-input functions, it is yet to find a method of generating a cell library. For this we 
propose a method of creating such a cell library. On the other hand, if adopting a FPGA like 
design flow, we do not need any cell library, or simply put it we need a library that has 65536 
cells. This is because FPGA synthesis tool such as Flowmap can utilize any of 65536 functions. 
Characterizing a library of this scale is time consuming. Hence, we propose a method of 
dynamically generating a library containing only those cells (logic functions) used in a design. 
Hence, we invent a simple method of characterizing all the 65536 logic functions. We have 
demonstrated the viability of using these two types of design flow. Fig. 8 shows a layout of a 
benchmark circuit designed with our design methodology using 4-lookup table.  
 
 
Fig. 8. A routed benchmark circuit designed with 4-lookup table. 
 Fig. 11.  Part of layout in b17. 
 
 
Fig. 12.  Rover getting the first place prize. 
 
 
 Clock Router 
We have developed a clock routing algorithm for structured ASICs using predefined yet 
via-configurable metal wires. Our algorithm works like exact zero skew algorithm but has been 
tailored to deal with predefined wires. Our methods of finding tapping wires, determining 
locations of tapping points, and wire snaking all have distinct features not found in a clocking 
 
Fig. 15. Layout of a level converter. 
 
C. Results for the Third Year  
The results in this year include (a). a power-gated VCLB, (b). a power-gating design 
methodology, (c). a statistical approach to routing resource estimation for a predefined routing 
fabric, and (d). a comprehensive study of 3-lookup tables. 
 Power-Gated VCLB (PGVCLB) 
The main features of PGVCLB and our contributions are as follows. PGVCLB has a pair of 
equal-sized high-Vth pMOS devices which can be configured by vias into sleep transistors of 
different drive classes.We can configure PGVCLBs in a design to implement fine-grained power 
gating, coarse-grained/cluster-based power gating or even distributed sleep transistor network 
(DSTN). A layout design of our PGVCLB is shown in Fig. 16. 
 
 
Fig. 16. A power-gated VCLB. 
 
 Power-Gated Design Methodology 
Fig. 17 shows a power-gating design flow. We use an existing logic synthesis tool such as 
Synopsys Design Compiler to implement fine-grained power gating. We exploit a basic rule used 
by many logic synthesis tools, which is that a logic synthesis tool would normally try to minimize 
area while satisfying timing constraints of a circuit. This rule stipulates that timing is a constraint 
whereas area is an objective. Hence, a logic synthesis tool such as Design Compiler would use as 
many small size logic gates as possible on non-critical paths to minimize circuit area once timing 
 Conference Publications 
 Yu-Chen Chen, Hou-Yu Pang, Kuen-Wen Lin, Rung-Bin Lin, Hui-Hsiang Tung, Shih-Chieh 
Su, “ Via Configurable Three-Input Lookup-Tables for Structured ASICs,” IEEE/ACM Great 
Lake Symposium on VLSI, 6 pages, 2010. 
 I-Wei Lee, Wen-Hao Chen, and Rung-Bin Lin, “Clock Routing for Structured ASICs with 
Via-Configurable Fabrics,” International Symposium on Quality Electronic Design, 6 pages, 
March, 2010. 
 Sin-Yu Chen, Rung-Bin Lin, Hui-Hsiang Tung, and Kuen-Wey Lin, “Power Gating Design 
for Standard-Cell-Like Structured ASICs,” DATE, 6 pages, March 2010. 
 Hui-Hsiang Tung, Yu-Chen Chen, Da-Wei Hsu, Shih-Jung Hsu, Sin-Yu Chen, and Rung-Bin 
Lin, “Via-configurable Logic Block Architectures for Standard Cell like Structured ASICs,” 
The 12th International Symposium on Integrated Circuits, Dec. 14-16, Singapore, 2009. 
(Invited paper) 
 Yu-Wen Tsai, Kun-Chen Wu, Hui-Hsiang Tung, and Rung-Bin Lin, “Using Structured ASIC 
to Improve Design Productivity,” The 12th International Symposium on Integrated Circuits, 
Dec. 14-16, Singapore, 2009. 
 Mei-Chen Li, Hui-Hsiang Tung, Chien-Chung Lai, and Rung-Bin Lin, “Standard cell like 
via-configurable logic block for structured ASICs,” IEEE Computer Society Annual 
Symposium on VLSI, 2008. 
 
Master Thesis 
 Mei-Chen Li, “Standard Cell Like Via-Configurable Logic Block Design for Structured 
ASICs,” Master Thesis, Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, 
Taiwan, 2007. 
 Chien-Chung Lai, “Standard Cell Like Design Flow for Structured ASICs,” Master Thesis, 
Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, 2007. 
 Hou-Yu Pang, “Standard Cell Like Via-Configurable Look-Up-Table Design for Structured 
ASICs,” Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, 2008. 
 Yu-Chen Chen, “Three Input Look-up-Table Design for Structured ASICs,” Master Thesis, 
Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, 2009. 
 I-Wei Lee, “A Clock Routing Algorithm for Structured ASIC with Predefined Metal Layers,” 
Master Thesis, Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, 
2007. 
 Kuen-Wey Lin, “A Low Power Design Methodology for Structured ASIC using Dual Supply 
Voltages,” Master Thesis, Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, 
Taiwan, 2009. 
 Shih-Hang Chang, “A Router for Structured ASICs with Via Configurable Routing Fabric,” 
Master Thesis, Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, 
2008. 
 Sin-Yu Chen,“A Power Gating Design Methodology for Structured ASIC,” Master Thesis, 
Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, 2009. 
 Liang-Chi Lai, “A Fast Structured ASIC Router with Via Configurable Routing Fabric,” 
Master Thesis, Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, 
2010. 
 
五、 計畫成果自評 
In these three years, we have almost achieved what we expected to do. Only the tool planned 
for doing dual-supply voltage structured ASICs has not yet completed. However, it will be 
completed soon. Basically, our results are fruitful. We even have some un-expected results, such 
as a clock router, which is not originally planned. Our structured ASIC router won the first place 
prize in the exhibition of third University Tool sponsored by DAT Consortium, Taiwan. For the 
time being, we have published six conference papers. Two more are under reviewed. Some are 
under planned. Eight students working for this project have graduated. Three more master 
students and one Ph.D. student continue to work on this project. We believe that we will have 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                       99 年 1  月 15  日 附件三
 
報告人姓名  林榮彬 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
元智大學資訊工程系 
教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
Dec. 14, 2009 至 
Dec. 16, 2009, Singapore 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 96-2221-E-155 -064 -MY3 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)  
 (英文) International Symposium on Integrated Circuits 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)  
 (英文) Via-configurable Logic Block Architectures for Standard Cell like 
Structured ASICs 
一、 參加會議經過 
本會議為常年在新加坡內舉辦之與IC電路設計相關之國際會議，論文集收錄於IEEE 
Xplore資料庫中，會議一共為期三天。本大會之重要特徵為廣邀世界各地之專家學者組
成許多高水準之special session，筆者亦受邀組成一個special session， session 名稱為 
Recent Progress in Structured ASICs，此special session共發表了五篇有關structured ASIC 
之論文，其中兩篇來自台灣(一篇為筆者團隊之論文，另一為智原科技所提供)，一 篇來
自日本立命館大學，另兩篇來自Texas A&M 大學， 本special session 在12月15日當天下
午舉行，筆者為session organizer 與session chair，論文發表當中與會學者熱列參與討論，
致使本session延後15分鐘才結束，可說是相當成功的一個session。此外，本大會共安排
了兩場keynotes; 第一場由Prof. Bram Nauta, The University of Twente, The Netherlands主
講，其講題為Analog and RF circuits in Nanometer CMOS，強調利用Nanometer CMOS來
設計software defined architectures and the required circuits 之挑戰。另一場keynote 是由
Dr. Frank P. Averdung, Chief Executive Officer, SUSS MicroTec AG 主講，其講題為More 
than Moore - the challenges of 3 dimensional IC integration。 
 
二、 與會心得 
參加本會議筆者當然是收益良， 不過， 台灣在全世界電子產品之生產與設計佔有一席
之地，應多舉行這種大型國際會議在台灣舉辦的機會，藉此能與世界各地之先進技術、
學術人員進行各進一步之交流，提升台灣的能見度以及技術發展。 
 
三、 建議 
希望國科會與校方能充裕補助學者出席國際會議之經費， 讓參與論文發表之專家學者
不致於自掏腰包。 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
大會論文集 Flash 一片。 
 
表 Y04 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林榮彬 計畫編號：96-2221-E-155-064-MY3 
計畫名稱：結構化客製晶片之穿孔可程式化邏輯方塊與繞線結構之設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 8 8 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
