2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
新式低溫複晶矽薄膜電晶體之結構與技術在電抹除可程式
唯讀記憶體的應用(3/3) 
New Structure and Technology of Low-Temperature Poly-Si TFTs 
for EEPROM Devices Application 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-009-188 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：雷添福   交通大學電子研究所教授 
 
一、中文摘要 
在系統面板(System-On-Panel)與三維
主動元件整合上，低溫複晶矽薄膜電晶體
被認為是非常具有吸引力與潛力的元件，
除了驅動電路外，複晶矽薄膜電晶體在可
電抹除可電程式唯讀記憶體元件之應用是
未來系統面板的趨勢。在第三年報告中，
我們成功發展製作出新穎鍺奈米微晶粒捕
獲層記憶體元件技術應用於低溫複晶矽薄
膜記憶體元件上。  
我們成功地利用低壓化學沉積爐管於
370°C下直接成長出鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲
層，利用此方法，可以容易地控制穿隧氧
化層的厚度，而鍺奈米微晶粒可以成功地
被鑲嵌在氧化層中。實驗的量測結果顯示
此新式的鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層低溫複晶矽
薄膜記憶體元件具有良好資料的寫入/抹除
效 率 、 良 好 的 資 料 持 久 性 (Data 
retention) 、少的閘極與汲極干擾以及高寫
入、抹除操作忍耐力 (Endurance)，這些結
果顯示此鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層低溫複晶矽
薄膜記憶體元件在未來系統面板應用與三
維主動元件整合上是一很有潛力的發展方
向。 
關鍵詞: 複晶矽薄膜電晶體；可電抹除可電
程式唯讀記憶體；鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層；
矽/氧化矽/氮化矽/氧化矽-矽；寫入抹除操
作忍耐力。 
Abstract: 
Poly-Si TFTs are very attractive for 3D 
integration of active devices and system on 
top of the panel (SOP) as devices 
performances improve further. In addition to 
driving circuits, Poly-Si TFT EEPROMs are 
very attractive in nonvolatile poly-Si thin 
film memory devices application. In the third 
year, we have successfully developed and 
fabricated poly-Si TFT nonvolatile Ge 
nanocrystals (Ge-NCs) memories for the first 
time.  
The pure Ge-NCs trapping layer was 
directly deposited by low-pressure chemical 
vapor deposition (LPCVD) at 370°C. This 
way, the pure Ge-NCs embedded in oxide 
were easy to control the real thickness of 
tunneling oxide. Results show that the new 
poly-Si TFT nonvolatile Ge-NCs memories 
have high programming /erasing efficiency, 
long charge retention time, less gate and 
drain disturbance, and good endurance 
characteristics. These results show that 
poly-Si TFT nonvolatile Ge-NCs memories 
are the promising nonvolatile memory 
candidate for 3D integration of active devices 
and system on top of the panel (SOP) 
application in the future. 
Keywords: Poly-Si TFTs, EEPROMs, 
Germanium nanocrystals trapping layer, 
SONOS, Programming/erasing Endurance. 
4 
p type Si-sub
Poly-Si gate
Poly-Si channel
Wet Oxide
Blocking Oxide
Tunneling Oxide
Ge-NCs
p type Si-sub
n+ Poly-Si gate
Poly-Si channel
Wet Oxide
Blocking Oxide
Tunneling Oxide
n+ Source n+ Drain
Al
Ge-NCs
Al Al
三、研究方法及成果 
( 1 ) 鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄
膜記憶體製程流程  
  圖一是鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層結構製程流
程示意圖，為了探討鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層
的載子捕獲能力，我們先在 550nm 厚度之
氧化矽基板上以低壓化學氣相沉積爐管沉
積非晶矽主動區通道 50nm (a-Si channel 
active region)，溫度為 550oC，之後再經過
600 oC 24 小時的退火再結晶使非晶矽主動
區通道結晶成為複晶矽主動區通道
(Poly-Si channel active region) ，利用低壓
化學氣相沉積爐管沉積高品質的二氧化矽
穿隧(tunneling)層約 10nm，接者在低壓化
學氣相沉積爐管 370oC 下沉積鍺奈米微晶
粒捕獲層，為了防止鍺在空氣中氧化，我
們在鍺之上又沉積了一層非晶矽(a-Si)覆蓋
層約 2nm，見圖一(a)。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
完成鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層之沉積後，
接著利用低壓化學氣相沉積爐管來沉積覆
蓋於鍺捕獲層上方之阻障氧化層(blocking 
oxide)，厚度為 44nm，此阻障氧化層的目
的是防止電子從上電極注入/拉出，影響在
鍺捕獲層中已儲存電子的狀態，多餘的電
子注入或拉出會使得記憶狀態(0 或 1)誤
判；接著成長複晶矽 n+上電極(poly-Si n+ 
gate)，定義出閘極後，以離子佈植形成 n+ 
S/D，最後將 n+ S/D 活化，完成的元件結構
示意圖，見圖一(b)。 
( 2 ) 鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層材料分析
結果 
圖二為不同沉積時間所成長的鍺奈米
微晶粒捕獲層原子力顯微鏡(atomic force 
microscope, AFM)圖，圖中可清楚看出明顯
的鍺奈米微晶粒，其平均直徑大小為
10~12nm，其密度超過 1011 cm-3 。 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
圖一 鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄
膜記憶體結構製程流程示意圖 圖二 鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層原子力顯微鏡
(atomic force microscope, AFM)圖 
(a)
(a)
(b) 
6 
注入 (Band-To-Band Tunneling Hot Hole 
Injection)機制。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖五是實際鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶
矽薄膜記憶體元件的寫入與抹除記憶特性
曲線圖，圖五(a)為主動區通道厚度=50nm，
圖五(b)為主動區通道厚度=100nm，由圖可知
寫入時間為 1 秒時，臨界電壓的移動值
(Threshold Voltage Shift)可達約 8 伏特左
右。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖六顯示量測的鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層
複晶矽薄膜記憶體元件寫入特性，圖六(a)
為通道厚度 50nm，圖六(b)為通道厚度
100nm，W / L 均為 0.8μm / 0.8μm， 閘極
偏壓均控制在 10V，當汲極的偏壓越高，
元件的寫入速度越快，當通道厚度越大其
寫入速度也稍高，這是由於我們使用汲極
雪崩撞擊游離 (Drain Avalanche Impact 
Ionization) 及 通 道 熱 電 子 (Channel Hot 
Electron)寫入機制的因素，當汲極或是通道
厚度越大時，汲極雪崩撞擊游離現象會更
加強，使得寫入電流增加，通道熱電子產
生的機率也就越大，造成寫入速度增加。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b)
(b) 
圖四 鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄膜記憶體元
件(a)寫入與(b)抹除機制原理示意圖 
圖五 鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄膜記憶體元
件寫入與抹除記憶特性曲線圖，(a)主動區通道厚
度為 50nm，(b)主動區通道厚度為 100nm 
(a)
Channel Thickness = 50nm
W / L = 0.8μm / 0.8μm
Reverse Read , VD= 0.5V
Gate Voltage VG (V)
-6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10
D
ra
in
 C
ur
re
nt
 I D
 (A
)
10-12
10-11
10-10
10-9
10-8
10-7
10-6
10-5
10-4
Erase State
Program : VG=10V, VD=11V, 1sec
Channel Thickness = 100nm
W / L = 0.8μm / 0.8μm
Gate Voltage VG (V)
-6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10
D
ra
in
 C
ur
re
nt
 I D
 (A
)
10-12
10-11
10-10
10-9
10-8
10-7
10-6
10-5
10-4 Erase State
Program : VG=10V, VD=10V, 1sec
(a) 
8 
圖八顯示實際量測的閘極偏壓干擾特
性曲線圖，圖八(a)為通道厚度 50nm，圖八
(b)為通道厚度 100nm，W / L 均為 0.8μm / 
0.8μm，此量測是當汲極偏壓為 0V 時，而
閘極偏壓為寫入偏壓時，元件是否受閘極
偏壓影響而改變其臨界電壓。本次實驗，
元件的穿隧氧化層與阻障氧化層厚度總共
約 45nm，而我們所加的閘極寫入偏壓小於
Fowler-Nordheim 穿隧所需的偏壓，所以實
驗量測結果顯示，我們的元件在閘極偏壓
干擾測試下表現良好。 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖九表示實際量測的汲極偏壓干擾特
性曲線圖，圖九(a)為通道厚度50nm，圖九
(b)為通道厚度100nm，W / L均為0.8μm / 
0.8μm，此量測是當閘極偏壓為0V時，而
汲極偏壓為寫入偏壓時，元件是否受汲極
偏壓影響而改變其臨界電壓。我們可以觀
察到當汲極偏壓越高，臨界電壓所受的偏
移量隨著時間增加也就漸漸增大，此現象
可以由汲極雪崩的現象來解釋，當汲極偏
壓超過汲極雪崩的臨界點時，強烈的汲極
雪崩崩潰就會發生，這會使得臨界電壓的
偏移量隨著汲極偏壓增大而增加。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
(a) 
圖八 實際量測的閘極偏壓干擾特性曲線圖，圖
八 (a)為通道厚度 50nm，圖八 (b)為通道厚度
100nm，W / L 均為 0.8μm / 0.8μm。 
(a) 
(b) 
圖九 實際量測的汲極偏壓干擾特性曲線圖，圖
九 (a)為通道厚度 50nm，圖九 (b)為通道厚度
100nm，W / L 均為 0.8μm / 0.8μm。 
10 
層電子缺陷產生增多有關，最後容易造成
不易抹除的現象，使得寫入/抹除開口窗大
小漸漸縮小了；我們相信使用高品質的穿
隧氧化層有助於改善此寫入、抹除操作忍
耐力特性，另外較厚的穿隧氧化層會有較
嚴重的寫入/抹除開口窗縮小問題，但較厚
的穿隧氧化層會有更加的資料持久性，所
以在資料持久性與寫入、抹除操作忍耐力
特性上必須做一取捨[7]。. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
四、結果與討論 
在第三年研究中，我們成功地製作出
鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄膜記憶體元
件，從基礎的鍺奈米微晶粒的製備技術到
實際鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄膜記憶
體元件製作，我們成功研究發展出新穎鍺
奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄膜非揮發記憶
體之關鍵技術，第三年中我們研究此鍺奈
米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄膜非揮發記憶體
元件的資料持久性(Data retention) 以及寫
入/抹除操作忍耐力 (P/E Endurance)等可
靠度 (Reliability)分析，經過這三年的研
究，從製程技術到量測分析，每一個過程
都是重重難關，未來我們將研究發展更新
穎的鍺奈米微晶粒捕獲層複晶矽薄膜非揮
發記憶體元件結構與關鍵技術來改善記憶
體特性與可靠度。 
 
五、成果自評 
  本次計畫之執行，皆達預期成果，並已
在相關學術期刊上發表論述，茲列於下： 
[1] Chih-Yang Chen, Ming-Wen Ma, Wei-Cheng 
Chen, Hsiao-Yi Lin , Kuan-Lin Yeh, Shen-De 
Wang, Tan-Fu Lei, “Analysis of negative bias 
temperature instability in body-tied low- 
temperature polycrystalline silicon thin-film 
transistors” IEEE Electron Device Lett. Vol. 29, 
No. 2, pp. 165~167, February 2008. 
[2]  Ming-Wen Ma, Chih-Yang Chen, Chun-Jung Su, 
Woei-Cherng Wu, Yi-Hong Wu, Tsung-Yu Yang, 
Kuo-Hsing Kao, Tien-Sheng Chao, Tan-Fu Lei, 
“Impacts of fluorine ion implantation with low- 
temperature solid-phase crystallized activation on 
high-kappa LTPS-TFT” IEEE Electron Device 
Lett. Vol. 29, No. 2, pp. 168~170, February 2008. 
[3] Chia-Wen Chang, Szu-Fen Chen, Che-Lun Chang, 
Chih-Kang Deng, Jiun-Jia Huang, Lei, Tan-Fu 
Lei, ” High-performance nanowire TFTs with 
metal-induced lateral crystallized poly-Si channels” 
IEEE Electron Device Lett. Vol. 29, No. 5, pp. 
474~476, May 2008.  
[4] Mei-Chun Liu, Tsung-Yu Chiang, Po-Yi Kuo, 
圖十二 實際量測之寫入、抹除操作忍耐力特
性曲線圖，圖十二(a)為通道厚度 50nm，圖十二
(b)為通道厚度 100nm，W / L 均為 0.8μm / 0.8μm。
(a) 
(b)
   
 1
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-009-188 
計畫名稱：新式低溫複晶矽薄膜電晶體之結構與技術在電抹除可程式唯讀記憶體的應用(3/3) 
報告類別：出席國際會議研究心得報告及發表論文 
博士班學生: 張家文 
指導教授: 雷添福 博士 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次在南韓首爾舉辦的 2008 年第四屆國際薄膜電晶體研討會 （ International Thin-Film 
Transistor Conference: ITC 2008），此會議提供固態元件及材料領域的科學家及工程人員相互討
論新的發現、新的現象、及最新的技術，並且專門探討各式種類的薄膜電晶體之發展，所探討的
議題包括： 
(a) OTFT 
(b) a-Si 
(c) LTPS 
(d) Oxide 
學生這次投稿的論文是屬於 LTPS 的 session，此 session 的論文主要為應用不同的閘極介電層或
新穎的複晶矽薄膜結晶技術於複晶矽薄膜電晶體之研究。 
 
二、 與會心得 
學生這次共有一篇論文入選該會議 ， 論文題目分別為 『 CF4-Plasma-Induced Fluorine 
Passivation Effects on Poly-Si TFTs with High- Pr　 2O3 Gate Dielectric』。論文以壁報發表的方式
發表論文，因為各方面的人才會提出不同的看法，所以能從不同的角度去探討一些從沒想過的問
題。在論文發表時發現有許多人士發問，學生對本論文除加以解說外，並與他們交換一些儀器測
量上的技術問題，由這些討論可以作為以後發展及改進的方向，過程十分順利。 
另外，會議中我也聽了幾場講演，演講內容令人印象深刻。今年ITC會議內容相當精采其論
文富有可參考性，因學生的研究以高介電常數閘極介電層材料為主，所以會議上也聽了幾篇關於
這方面的研究報告，對於學生未來的研究提供有力的輔助，在會議中，大會並邀請了幾位國外知
名研究學者，對此研究內容或是現今元件發展的趨勢，做簡潔有力的報告，對於未來的研究更是
獲益良多。在目前高介電材料尚未正式取代傳統氧化層，如何提高元件特性，有賴於各式各樣的
元件材料與技術，例如，採用不同晶格方向製作N型與P型電晶體，以及另外施加應力方式提高
載子遷移率，都是目前最受矚目的主題，在本次會議中，有多方學者提出各種技術以改善此問題
。但是，當應用此技術對於元件可靠性是否有所影響，是目前較少討論之議題。 
這次與會人員，有一大部分是來自日本、韓國的科技大廠及學術單位，可見日本、韓國在半
導體元件領域研究很投入。另外也發現他們在會議中非常專注，當我在發表論文時，就有人馬上
用照相機照下來，可見他們是真的很用心在參加此次的會議！另外，也發現有些日本、韓國學術
單位參加會議教授會帶著學生一同出席，除了學生上台報告外，教授也會自己投paper並親自上
台報告，這種以身做則的典範深深地烙印在我心裡，也難怪他們的研究會如此突出。當然，我們
也不用妄自菲薄，台灣在半導體領域仍然佔有重要的分量。 
研討會為期二天，雖然時間緊湊，但每天皆有數場高水準的 invited talk，另外也藉此機會可
以跟其他國家的人互相交流，相信對於博士班研究生專業吸收與且創新的研發成果會有很大的幫
助。另外也感謝國科會提供的經費補助，讓我能順利參加這次的會議。 
 
   
 3
CF4-Plasma-Induced Fluorine Passivation Effects on 
Poly-Si TFTs with High- Pr2O3 Gate Dielectric 
Chia-Wen Chang, Chih-Kang Deng, Hong-Ren Chang, Jiun-Jia Huang, and Tan-Fu Lei 
Institute of Electronics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, jiawen.ee92g@nctu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
High-performance polycrystalline silicon thin-film transistors 
(poly-Si TFTs) integrating high- Pr2O3 gate dielectric and 
fluorine-passivated poly-Si film are demonstrated for the first 
time. High gate capacitance density and thin equivalent-oxide 
thickness provided by the high- Pr2O3 gate dielectric have the 
advantage of increasing the driving current capability of TFT 
device. Introducing fluorine atoms into poly-Si films by employing 
CF4 plasma treatment can effectively passivate the trap states. 
The electrical and reliability characteristics of poly-Si Pr2O3 
TFTs with 10-W CF4 plasma treatment can be significantly 
improved compared with those without CF4 plasma treatment, 
which is due to the passivation of trap states and formation of 
strong Si-F bonds. Therefore, high-performance and high-
reliability poly-Si Pr2O3 TFTs with CF4 plasma treatment are 
suitable for AMLCD applications. 
 
1. Introduction 
Polycrystalline silicon thin film transistors (poly-Si TFTs) 
have received a considerable attention in fields such as large-area 
electronic applications including linear image sensors and active 
matrix liquid crystal displays (AMLCDs).1 However, it is difficult 
to develop high-performance poly-Si TFTs that are applicable for 
both pixel switching elements and peripheral driving circuits. 
Pixel switching elements require TFTs to operate at high voltages 
as well as low gate-leakage currents to drive the liquid crystal. In 
contrast, TFTs with good electrical characteristics, including low 
operation voltage, low subthreshold swing, high driving current, 
and low gate-leakage current, are necessary for achieving the 
peripheral driving circuit applications. Poly-Si TFT with thinner 
gate-dielectric thickness can enhance the driving current by 
increasing the gate capacitance density, but higher gate-leakage 
current and poor reliability can be introduced.2 Several high- 
materials, including ONO gate stack, Al2O3, and Ta2O5, were 
proposed to replace conventional SiO2 to serve as the gate 
dielectrics of poly-Si TFTs.3-5 Employing high-gate dielectrics 
can induce more mobile carriers and suppress the gate-leakage 
current. However, poly-Si high-TFTs would suffer from more 
undesirable gate-induced drain leakage (GIDL) currents. Various 
techniques, including hydrogen plasma treatment and fluorine ion 
implantation on poly-Si film, have been applied to address this 
GIDL current issue by reducing the trap state densities. However, 
the above mentioned methods have the issues of serious stress 
instability and troublesome problems in large-area electronics, 
respectively. 
Recently, Praseodymium oxide (Pr2O3) becomes a promising 
high- gate-dielectric candidate in MOSFET due to its high 
dielectric constant (~31), low gate-leakage current, good dielectric 
property, and superior thermal stability.6 In this work, we report a 
fluorine passivation technique by employing a low-temperature 
CF4 plasma treatment. We have integrated a process-compatible 
fluorine passivation technique and a high-Pr2O3 gate dielectric 
into poly-Si TFTs. 
 
2. Experimental Procedures 
Figure 1 illustrates the key fabrication steps of the poly-Si 
Pr2O3 TFTs with CF4 plasma treatments. Briefly, the fabrication 
begins by depositing a 100-nm undoped amorphous silicon (-Si) 
layer on thermally oxidized Si wafers, followed by performing 
solid phase crystallization (SPC) process at 600 C for 24 h. After 
patterning the individual active regions, a CF4 plasma treatment 
was applied on the recrystallized poly-Si film by plasma-enhanced 
chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) system at 350 C [Figure 
1(a)]. The chamber pressure and flow rate of CF4 reaction gas 
were 400 mtorr and 80 sccm, respectively. Various radio 
frequency (rf) powers of 0 W, 10 W, and 20 W, with a constant 
treating time of 20 s, were used to investigate the effect of fluorine 
content on the poly-Si TFTs. Afterwards, a 33.6-nm Pr2O3 gate 
dielectric film was deposited, followed by a thermal annealing 
treatment at 600 C for 30 min in O2 ambient to improve the gate-
dielectric quality. After forming the TiN gate electrode, self-
aligned phosphorous ion implantation and dopant activation were 
performed [Figure 1(b)]. Following, back-end processes, 
including deposition of passivation SiO2, opening of contact 
windows [Figure 1(c)], and formation of Al pads were realized to 
complete the device fabrication [Figure 1(d)]. For comparison, the 
control poly-Si Pr2O3 TFT without the CF4 plasma treatment, rf 
power of 0 W, was also prepared. No hydrogenation and sintering 
processes were performed to study the fluorine passivation effects. 
 
 
Figure 1 Schematic diagrams of the key fabrication steps of the 
CF4 plasma-treated poly-Si Pr2O3 TFTs. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
Figure 2 shows the cross-sectional transmission electron 
microscopy (XTEM) image of the poly-Si Pr2O3 TFT. The 
   
 5
the 0-W and 20-W CF4 plasma-treated samples. Therefore, the 
grain-boundary trap states can be effectively passivated by the 
CF4 plasma treatment, leading to better electrical performances. 
Additionally, the field-effect mobility versus gate voltage for 
the poly-Si Pr2O3 TFTs with various rf powers of CF4 plasma 
treatments is also shown in Figure 4. The field-effect mobility is 
extracted from the transconductance measurement at VDS = 0.1 V. 
The maximum field-effect mobility of the poly-Si Pr2O3 TFTs 
with 0-W, 10-W, and 20-W CF4 plasma treatments are 28.33, 
43.48 and 21.28 cm2/V-s, respectively. Note that the maximum 
field-effect mobility is improved by 10-W CF4 plasma treatment 
but degraded by 20-W CF4 plasma treatment. This result also 
confirms that the incorporated fluorine atoms by an appropriate rf 
power of 10-W CF4 plasma treatment provide a passivation effect 
of Si dangling bonds and Si strain bonds in the poly-Si channel 
and at the Pr2O3/poly-Si interface. 
The evidence of the fluorine incorporation in the poly-Si film 
can be firmly demonstrated with the secondary ion mass 
spectroscopy (SIMS) analysis. Figure 6 shows the SIMS profiles 
of fluorine atoms for the poly-Si films with 0-W, 10-W, and 20-W 
CF4 plasma treatments. It was clearly observed that considerable 
fluorine atoms were detected in the poly-Si and, in particular, an 
obvious fluorine peak was located at the Pr2O3 gate 
dielectric/poly-Si channel interface. The SIMS analysis shows an 
increased concentration of fluorine atoms at the Pr2O3/poly-Si 
interface with increasing rf power. Note that the piled-up fluorine 
atoms by using CF4 plasma treatment provide an effective 
termination of trap states. 
 
 
Figure 6 SIMS profiles of fluorine for the poly-Si films 
with various rf powers of CF4 plasma treatments. 
 
To verify the fluorine passivation of grain-boundary trap states 
by using CF4 plasma treatment, the effective grain-boundary trap- 
state density was evaluated according to the grain-boundary 
trapping model proposed by Proano et al. Figure 7 exhibits the 
ln[(IDS/(VGS  VFB)] versus 1/(VGS  VFB)2 curves in the strong 
inversion at VDS = 0.1 V for the poly-Si Pr2O3 TFTs with 0-W, 10-
W, and 20-W CF4 plasma treatments. The effective grain-
boundary trap-state density was calculated from the square root of 
the slope of ln[(IDS/(VGS  VFB)] versus 1/(VGS  VFB)2. For the 
cases of the applied rf power = 0 W, 10 W, and 20 W, the effective 
grain-boundary trap-state densities are found to be 1.35 1013, 
9.44 1012, and 1.47 1013 cm-2, respectively. It is observed that 
there is an optimal rf power of 10-W CF4 plasma treatment for the 
reduction of grain-boundary trap states. Although the 20-W 
sample has higher concentration of fluorine atoms than the 10-W 
sample, as shown in the SIMS profiles, the effective grain-
boundary trap-state density is slightly increased with increasing rf 
power to 20 W. 
 
 
Figure 7 Plot of ln[IDS/(VGS-VFB)] versus 1/(VGS-VFB)2 at VDS 
= 0.1 V for poly-Si Pr2O3 TFTs with various rf powers of CF4 
plasma treatments. 
 
However, there is a non-ideal result that the 20-W CF4 plasma 
treatment on poly-Si film shows a detrimental effect on the 
electrical performance of the fabricated TFT device. As it is well 
known, CF4 gas dissociated into reactive fluorine radicals by rf 
gas discharge is a commonly used etching species, thereby etching 
the exposed poly-Si film. The effect of degradation of poly-Si film 
completely dominates the effect of fluorine passivation of trap 
states for the 20-W sample, resulting in degraded electrical 
properties. Fortunately, the variations of the thicknesses of the 
poly-Si films before and after CF4 plasma treatments measured by 
ellipsometer were negligible. Therefore, the thinning effect of the 
poly-Si films by CF4 plasma treatment is excluded. According to 
previous reports, the roughness of the gate dielectric/poly-Si 
interface has been reported to affect the on-state characteristics of 
TFT device. To investigate the degradation of on-state 
characteristics for 20-W CF4 plasma-treated sample, the surface 
morphology of poly-Si films is analyzed by atomic force 
microscopy (AFM). Figure 8 (a)-(c) show the AFM images for the 
poly-Si films with 0-W, 10-W, and 20-W CF4 plasma treatments, 
respectively. The average root mean square (RMS) values for 
poly-Si roughness with 0-W, 10-W, and 20-W CF4 plasma 
treatments were 0.25 nm, 0.31 nm, and 0.47 nm, respectively. 
Clearly, the poly-Si film with a 20-W CF4 plasma treatment shows 
a rougher surface morphology, leading to more damage to the 
integrity of the poly-Si channel film. 
Finally, the influence of electrical stress on poly-Si Pr2O3 
TFTs with various rf powers of CF4 plasma treatments is 
examined. Figures 9 and 10 show the threshold voltage shift and 
variation of on current as a function of hot-carrier stress time for 
the poly-Si Pr2O3 TFTs with 0-W, 10-W, and 20-W CF4 plasma 
treatments. The TFT devices were bias stressed at room 
temperature under VGS = 6 V and VDS = 6 V. The TFT devices 
with CF4 plasma treatments show smaller VTH shift and variation 
of ION than those without CF4 plasma treatment. It has been 
reported that the degradation of electrical characteristics under  
