中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)  
 
Microwave polarization is one of the historic topics in electromagnetics field. At lower 
frequencies, it has been extensively applied to the satellite and grounded-based communication. 
For the millimeter-wave polarization, due to the difficulties on the precise device fabrication and 
high-accuracy measurement, it is notified by instrumentation demands for radio astronomical 
observation. In this proposal, two parts of the requirement for the radio astronomical highly 
sensitive millimeter-wave receiver will be the main research points. The first part is the simple, 
efficient and accurate calibration and measurement techniques for the millimeter-wave 
orthomode transducer and the dual-polarization antenna system. The second part is to develop a 
broadband compact and miniaturization planar circuit module for polarization correlation 
measurement.  
 
微波極化之相關研究為一具有相當歷史之電波學門研究主題。在較低之微波頻率，已廣泛
應用於衛星及地面通訊。毫米波極化之相關研究，因元件製作及量測之困難，在近幾年才
開始受到注意。本計畫以應用於電波天文高靈敏度毫米波接收機為對象，針對正交級極化
轉換器及其雙極化天線，研究其散射矩陣之精確有效之快速量測技術。並以電波天文之觀
測需求，開發積體化之寬頻平面微帶線之極化相關計量電路系統。 
 
關鍵詞：極化、微波量測、毫米波元件、正交級極化轉換器、多埠網路、散射矩陣 
Keywords: polarization, microwave measurement, millimeter-wave devices, orthomode 
transducer, multiple-port network, scattering parameters. 
 
background radiation observation, the phasor measurement network is composed by waveguide 
with only 2GHz bandwidth at Q-band [13]. Therefore, the other point of our project is to realize 
the phasor measurement network by using planar circuit to achieve wider bandwidth with more 
compact size.  
 
研究方法 
 
The method and procedure to research the topic of this project is described as follows,  
 
(1) Calibration and measurement techniques of the scattering parameters of a dual-polarized 
antenna system 
 
The conventional measurement method of the antenna parameters is using near-field 
measurement system. The known transmitting antenna and the receiving antenna under test is 
arranged in orthogonal polarization. However, this method is only valid for single polarized 
antenna, and the near-field scanning is quite time consuming. For dual-polarization antenna, if the 
parameter to be determined is the scattering parameter of the equivalent circuit of the antenna, 
then the most efficient method should use various calibrators. In this topic, the degenerated port 
is not a waveguide port but a reference plan perpendicular to the antenna radiation direction. The 
calibrators are various scattering objects. We decided to start this research because its calibrators 
are much simple. The experiment will need two metallic scattering objects with a 
millimeter-wave absorber plate as near-field anechoic quite zone, which served as another 
calibrator. The antenna under test is composed by a W-band orthomode transformer, a corrugated 
horn waveguide antenna, and a 30-cm parabolic reflecting antenna. The signal transmitted and 
received is measured by the W-band millimeter-wave phasor network analyzer. 
 
(2) Broadband millimeter-wave phasor measurement circuit module 
 
The circuit module will be implemented by using the planar circuit design. In the first year, 
the structure and the component of the module will be design and analyzed by numerical 
simulation software. Due to the higher requirement on the accuracy of the millimeter-wave circuit 
implementation, in the first year a 4-8GHz prototype circuit will be implemented as prototype. 
The design will be implemented by using commercially-available numerical EM software, the 
fabrication will be implemented by PCB milling machine for prototype.  
 
結果與討論 
 
Part I. Theoretical Derivation on dual-polarization antenna system measurement techniques 
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
−= 2121
2121
4, αaS   ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
−−
−=
2121
2121
5, αaS  (dihedral corner reflector at 22.5°, -67.5°) 
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡=
01
10
6, αaS  ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
−
−=
01
10
7, αaS             (dihedral corner reflector at 45°, -45°) 
Basically, the measured two-port scattering matrix Mi can be express as  
1121
1
,22,12
][ SSSSISSM
iaiai
+−= −  
Where the four port scattering matrix of the dual polarized antenna can be expressed as 
,⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡=
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
=
2221
1211
44434241
34333231
24232221
14131211
SS
SS
ssss
ssss
ssss
ssss
S  
The solution is described as follow and the detail derivation is omitted here. S11 is solved by M0. 
The formulation proposed before [1] are further revised to get more simple and easier 
computation. The revised formulation is described as follow. 
 Define Ai = Mi-S11 as new known parameters, where i = 1~6. Then define  
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡=−−= −−−−−
2221
12111
5
1
4
11
3
1
2 )()(2 cc
cc
AAAAC  , and 
13
221211
2
1121
23
1 s
ccc
ccs +
++−= , 1321
221211
22
2
11222122
24 scccc
cccccs ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −+
++= , 1311
221211
12
2
11211212
14 scccc
cccccs ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −+
++=  
The value of s13 can be solved by 12
1
1
142414
231424
2
14232413 )(
12 −− −=⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
− AAsss
sss
ssssα . The antenna 
polarimetric scattering matrix S22 can be solved as following. Since Sa,3 = - Sa,2, one can get 
12
1
3
1
22122
)(
2
1 SAASS −− +−= . 
The error analysis includes the following error contributions, (i) error due to the anechoic 
chamber residue reflection, (ii) error due to dihedral corner reflector orientation, and (iii) error 
due to non-TEM wave components The error contributed by (i) and (ii) has been derived, and (iii) 
is still under developed. In summary, the non-zero residue reflection of the scattering matrix Sa of 
the anechoic room should be 20dB lower than S11 to prevent large measurement error. About the 
error due to dihedral corner reflector, if the orientation errors can be controlled below 0.2 degree, 
then it is expected that the measured error can be ignored. 
Part II. Measurement Hardware Preparation for Dual-Polarization Antenna System 
Based on the theory derived, the measurement hardware is also prepared. The antenna 
 Part II. 4-8GHz Polarimetric Measurement Circuit 
 
 The work on this part is based on the basic planar microstrip circuit element. From the circuit 
block diagram proposed in [2], most of the circuit elements can be realized by the planar 3-dB 
hybrid couplers and directional couplers. The initial trial start by August 2008 is to use FR-4 
printed circuit board and mechanical milling machine to fabricate the circuit element. The photo 
lithography version circuit is also fabricated and tested. Here only shows the final results 
measured from the whole module. 
 
 
Fig. 3. System plock diagram of the proposed 4-8GHz polarimetric measurement circuit. DC1, DC2, DC3 and DC4 
are the 3-dB 90-degree hybrid couplers; PS is the 90 degree phase shifter. A, B are the input signal, C1, C2, 
C3 and C4 are the output signal. 
The core block diagram of the 4-8GHz polarimetric measurement circuit is shown in Fig. 3. The 
phase difference of the signal from the input ports A and B at the output ports C1, C2, C3, and C4 
are designed to be 180 degree, 0 degree, -90 degree and 90 degree, with the equal amplitude 
coupling through the four 3-dB hybrid couplers, the signal detected at the output ports C1, C2 are 
for difference and difference of input A and B, respectively; the signal detected at the output port 
C3 and C4 are for the quadrature combination of input A and B.   
The circuit is implemented by the 3-dB Lange couplers on 1.6mm thick printed circuit board. 
This substrate thickness actually is with the microstrip fundamental mode slightly higher than 
8GHz. However, this substrate thickness will have benefit that the coupled line width and spacing 
will be easily implemented by the milling machine with reasonable precision, but the drawback is 
the longer ribbon wires for the connection of the coupled lines. The measured results of the 
amplitude are shown in Fig. 4. The measured results indicates that the amplitude difference 
between 4-8GHz at port C3 and C4 can be controlled below 1dB, but it will rise up to 3 dB and 
Port C1, only Port C2 is with perfectly matched. Fig. 5 shows the phase difference of the output 
 
(a)            (b) 
 
(c)          (d) 
Fig. 5. Phase difference for the four output port 
 
計畫成果自評 
The results shown in Part I (theoretical derivation on dual-polarization antenna system 
measurement techniques) and Part II (measurement hardware preparation for dual-polarization 
antenna system) actually have measured results, the measured data will be analyzed. The results 
and analysis will be collected along with the material presented in this report to form a 6-8 page 
journal paper to be submitted to IEEE Transaction on Antennas and Propagations in year 2010. 
The results of Part III (4-8GHz polarimetric measurement circuit) is not so suitable to be 
published in journal, however, once we can solve the fabrication error problem and improve the 
accuracy of the whole module, then the further step on the higher frequency version module will 
be a good result for journal paper publication. 
Reference 
[1] O. A. Peverini, R. Tascone, G. Virone, A. Olivieri, and R. Orta, “Orthomode transducer for 
附件：出席國際學術會議心得報告 
Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy & Astrophysics  
Business Travel Report-Attending International Conference 
Yuh-Jing Hwang (黃裕津), Assistant Research Fellow 
 
2009 European Microwave Week 
(39th European Microwave Conference & 4th European Microwave Integrated Circuits Conference) 
Place: Rome, Italy 
Date: September 27, 2009- October 04, 2009 
 
Preface 
In the field of academic research on microwave engineering, there are three major conferences held once per year: 
International Microwave Symposium (IMS, or IEEE MTT-S), European Microwave Week (EuMW), and 
Asia-Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC). European Microwave Week, which actually is the combination of 
four different conferences: European Microwave Conference (EuMC), European Microwave integrated Circuit 
Conference (EuMIC), European Wireless Technology Conference(EuWiT), and European Radar Conference 
(EuRAD). The meeting contains five-day-long agenda. Oral-presentation sessions are scheduled in parallel for 
different topics, each session contain at most five papers. Poster presentations are schedule in four sessions, each 
poster sessions occupy 2 hours at noon. Each workshop is scheduled to be a whole-day or half-day program. 
Due to the parallel-session oral presentation, I focused on the topics related to microwave and millimeter-wave 
circuits, components and system, GaAs-related device, MMICs and measurement techniques. Due to the economic 
situation, this year’s conference is not with as many attendees as it was in 2004, the last time I attended. This year 
there is not special session direct related to radio astronomy: however, as Europe playing very important role on the 
radio astronomical instrumentation, there are several paper directly talking about the components and system 
related to the radio astronomical instrumentations. 
In this year, the RF, microwave and millimeter team in ASIAA receiver laboratory has 4 papers accepted by 
EuMW2009. All these papers are presented orally. The authors, paper title, and the pages are listed as follows. The 
author presented the paper is marked by bold characters, and my name is marked by under lines. 
With so many years hard working and struggling, this is the first time ASIAA can form a three-member team to 
attend a world-class international conference on microwave engineering. Due to the restriction on the travel of 
assistant, Su-Wei Chang cannot attend this conference and I presented his paper. 
 
Report on the Selected Conference Papers 
The followings are the sessions I attended during the conferences: 
Monday (Morning) 
EuMIC01 GaAs Circuits and Applications 
This is the first session of the European Microwave Week. The first paper is presented by Dr. C.-C. Chiong. It is a 
report on the work for ALMA band-1 4-12GHz MHEMT IF amplifier packaging and the measurement of cryogenic 
EuMC/EuMIC09, I only attend this session in halfway. The paper EuMC04-3 is a 2-6GHz broadband 45-degree 
phase shifter. The paper EuMC04-4 is worth to note because it is an 8.8-16.15GHz ultra-broadband waveguide 
polarizer. This design is worth to study because its broadband characteristics will be very useful for radio 
astronomical instrumentation. 
EuMC / EuMIC10 Industrial MM-Wave and Microwave Linear PA’s 
The fifth paper is a presentation by a commercial MMIC manufacturer. This 40-85GHz power amplifier MMIC 
equipped with ESD protection circuit composed by an anti-parallel diode pair shunt to the gate bias network. This 
would be a very useful technique for our future work on the MMIC design and packaging. 
EuMIC Closing Session 
There are two invited talk presented in this closing session. The first one is given by A. Barnes from European Space 
Agency, on the emerging space qualified MMICs on GaN and SiGe compound semiconductor. The second paper is 
related to the long-term stability and fabrication of the GaN HEMT given by Prof. E. Zanoni of Univ. Padova, Italy. 
The GaN HEMTs are well known by their extremely high breakdown voltage, however, based on the experiment it is 
shown that the high negative gate voltage will introduce destruction on the Schottky contact of the transistor, and 
degrade the devices’ lifetime. 
Wednesday (morning) 
EuMC17-3 Receiver Technology 
The third paper is worth to address, the Netherlands ASTRON team is developing prototype SKA telescope. 
EuMC21 Si Technology for 60GHz Application 
As silicon technology goes to smaller device size, it is capable to realize the millimeter-wave integrated circuit on 
Si-based CMOS or SiGe BiCMOS process. The five papers include 90-nm Si CMOS, 130nm SiGe BiCMOS, and 
130nm Si CMOS process. The Silicon technology will play very important role on the civil and military 
communication system in millimeter-wave frequency, however, for radio astronomical instrumentation, both the 
receiver front end and the local oscillator, Si-based MMIC cannot get state of the art low-noise performance and the 
extremely chip size make it difficult to packaged into the system, but it is wroth to note that it will play important 
role as the backend component in the future.  
Wednesday (afternoon) 
EuMC31 Novel Microwave Technologies 
The first paper is worth to note because it is the paper directed to the carbon nano-tube as RF device. This is a very 
first step; there must be lots of progress to be investigated on the nano-tube device for RF and microwave 
technology. 
Thursday (morning) 
EuMC42 
The 5th paper entitled “Planar Circuits for Non-Contact Near-Field Microwave Imaging” use the sub-wavelength 
resolution near-field microwave imaging technology, which is similar to the one Prof. C.-K. Sun in NTUEE 
extensively used for imaging. This paper uses this technique for integrated circuit imaging.   
EuMC44 THz Components-1, -2, -3 
I presented the paper “A 660 GHz local oscillator subsystem: design, testing and alignment” for Su-Wei Chang on his 
