發展一個名為 Relative Position for sensor Routing using Polar-coordinates ( 2RP )
的 WSN 系統與路由方法，採用極座標來定義路由路徑以及定義感測器身份(ID)，使該 ID 能
充分表現出地理位置資訊。 
成果說明： 
本計畫原擬整合 GPS 與無線網路之資源來建制一個從事人員與物品定位之系統，計畫
執行過程中，經本計畫合作公司提出要求，希望變更需求而於建築物內部使用感測功能更
佳精確度更高係由微小無線之感測器所組成之無線感測網路系統(wireless sensor networks, 
WSN)來進行偵測與定位，其優點是不需更動建築物中原有的線路佈置，一方面，卻也進一
步符合該公司繼續朝智慧型大樓與建築發展之需求。幾經與該公司會商及研究，最後決定
於室內改採 WSNs，室外部份則不變。由於 WSN 布置之後，其裝置電力即為系統壽命之關
鍵，本計畫經研究若干原有的各種 routing 方法之後，發展出採用極座標描述方式的
PR2(Relative Position for sensor Routing using Polar-coordinates)routing 演算法，明顯地節省了
整體系統電力消耗，事實上，在建築內活動的人員與物品，均極適合以極座標方式來描述
其地理位置與定位之。 
1 Introduction 
Recently, the developments of Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) have significantly attracted 
researchers’ attentions. A WSN, often comprising hundreds to millions of nodes, each with low 
power, wireless, and auto-process ability, is employed to monitor and/or detect specific 
environments, e.g., estimating the amount of enemy soldiers or weapons on battlefields [1], or 
performing living activities in home automation [1]. Continuously measuring the humidity, 
temperature and atmospheric pressure of a mountain or a canyon as a collection of long term 
information is another example. In addition, people through home automation monitoring and 
sensing system can realize where their young children are right now, in the restaurant, bedroom 
or living room [2]? 
                  
Fig. 1. (a)  A WSN architecture without                Fig. 1. (b)  A WSN architecture  
manager nodes                                with manager nodes                                       
In a typical WSN as shown Fig. 1a, base station (BS) as the key communication and 
processing node, is often located at the center of the system. Sensors are responsible for 
packet, respectively. Route_record records the nodes that the RREQ has traveled through. 
Besides, <source_addr, request_id> can avoid routing loops. 
AOVD works relying upon hop-count instead of practical distance. Nodes record adjacent 
neighbors for setting up inverse paths, and increase hop-count by one when relaying a RREQ 
packet. If no routing path can be found, a node broadcasts an RRER (route error) packet telling 
those nodes along the routing path in front to clear the corresponding routing information. 
Compared with DSR, AOVD is handicapped by using unidirectional communication. But, DSR 
can not discriminate whether current routing information is still accurate/valid or not until 
timeout. 
2.3 Flooding 
Flooding is a traditional protocol suitable for dynamic topology. It performs well in ad hoc 
wireless LAN, but duplicates a lot of ineffective messages, thus consuming lots of energy. 
Modified flooding solves this drawback by recording a list of IDs of the nodes that a packet 
has passed through in the packet’s header. With this list, network can cut down unnecessary 
transitions. Energy consumption can be consequently reduced. Location-aided flooding [7] 
further solved this problem by classifying nodes into gateway nodes and internal nodes to reduce 
down header length. Messages are transmitted with modified flooding among internal nodes 
which are nodes contained in a virtual grid. When a message goes across a gateway node, which 
is a node bridging two virtual grids, the node list is discarded. 
RDSR (Relative Direction based Sensor Routing) [2] divided WSN environment into four 
sectors and proposed an energy-efficient routing scheme to deliver data from sensors to BS. The 
coordinate system is Cartesian coordinates. However, flooding packets in a sector consumed 
much energy. To further improve system performance, in this article, we partition a WSN 
environment into sectors under the constraint that the number of nodes in each sector is as equal 
as possible. A sector is further divided into sections to reduce down energy consumption. 
 
Fig. 2 A WSN using polar coordinates 
3. System Model 
In our scheme, a manager node has more energy, better processing capability and higher 
reliability than ordinary sensors. As shown in Fig. 2, a section has only one manager which is 
located at the center of this section. Managers contained in a sector are arranged into a straight 
line which radiates outwards from the center of underlying WSN dividing the sector into two 
Fig. 5 A, B and C are co-nodes of a new node D 
3.3 Co-node 
Sometimes, the communication range of a manager can not cover a section, particularly when 
WSN is divided into few sectors. As shown in Fig. 5, a node D receiving no signal from any 
manager after it enters a WSN can exchange information with its nearby nodes (e.g., A, B, C), 
named cooperation nodes (co-nodes in short), to set up its ID. A co-node is a DNM within one 
hop away from D. D first queries co-nodes to acquire the information for the calculation of its 
current location frame. Frame contents can be obtained through several ways. Triangulation [10] 
is an example. It finally appends its serial number to the frame as its ID. A node receives no 
electric wave from any manager and co-node should be placed at or move to other location until 
it can hear from anyone of them.  
3.4 Routing Scheme 
We consult RDSR and modified flooding [7] to design routing algorithm for 2RP . A node S 
can invoke the following algorithm Node_to_Section ( ) to send/bridge a message Msg, which 
comprises at least three fields, including source ID (SID in short), destination ID (DID in short) 
and payload, to its destination section specified in Msg.DID. In this algorithm, Msg.DID has 
values only on Section and Angle fields which not only respectively represent the section and 
angle of the destination section, but also uniquely identify a section of a WSN. 
Msg.DID.Series_no is empty and Msg.DID.Intensity is zero. 
  S.Sec and S.Ang are respectively the section and angle where S currently stays. With this 
algorithm, users can request all nodes of a specified section to do something, e.g., to collect data, 
in one command instead of many commands (one to a node), i.e., a manager can aggregate data 
and retrench energy on transmission. When BS is not located at the center of underlying WSN, a 
manager should be placed at the center.  
Node_to_Section (S, Msg) 
{1. if (Msg.DID.Sec==S.Sec and Msg.DID.Ang==S.Ang) 
/*check if Msg reaches its destination section*/ 
2.   broadcast Msg with modified flooding;  
3. else if (S is a manager) 
4.     Manager(S, Msg); 
5. else if (S is a DNM of a manager M) send Msg to M;  
/*check if S is in a manager’s communication range*/ 
6. else if (several co-nodes of S exist, e.g., 1 ~ nK K ) 
7.     forward Msg to the co-node with 
1 i n
Max
≤ ≤
(Intensity of iK + intensity that S receives 
from iK );  /* If more than one such co-node exist, choose the one consuming the 
least energy based on the formulas discussed in section 3.2.*/  
8. else if (there is a neighbor of S, e.g., N and N.Sec< S.Sec)   
 /*whether there is a node comparatively near the center of WSN than S*/ 
9.     forward Msg to N;                
In the first experiment, the comparison of AODV, 2RP and RDSR on percentage of nodes 
that are isolated from others was performed. Isolated nodes are a group of nodes in which a node 
can only communicate with its group members, but due to long distance can not directly or 
indirectly communicate with nodes other than those of the group. Each comparison is executed 
ten times. Each time the following environment is deployed and arranged: (1) an area of 
200*200 2m  is used; (2) k nodes are randomly placed on the area, k=20,40,80,100,200; (3) radio 
radius of a node is 30m; (4) senders are randomly chosen; (5) their destination is BS. 
isolated nodes
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
20
nodes
40
nodes
80
nodes
100
nodes
200
nodes
No. of nodes that a system has
% 
of 
iso
lat
ed
 no
de
s
AODV
RDSR
RP2
 
Fig. 6 The percentage of nodes that are isolated from other nodes in a 200*200 2m working  
environment  
Energy comsumption
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
20
nodes
40
nodes
80
nodes
100
nodes
200
nodes
No. of nodes that a system has
en
erg
y c
on
su
mp
tio
nn
 (u
J)
AODV
RDSR
RP2
 
Fig. 7 Energy consumption in a 200*200 2m  working environment 
As shown in Fig. 6, AODV generates more isolated nodes when node density is low due to no 
enough nodes to construct a routing path. In RDSR and 2RP , managers can decrease this 
phenomena because the distance between a node and its manager is generally shorter than that 
between the node and BS. Fig. 7 illustrates that 2RP outperforms AODV and RDSR in energy 
consumption. Both RDSR and 2RP do not maintain routing tables, thus saving much more energy. 
Note that the curves are stable in high density of nodes. 
The second experiment is to explore how node density affects the behaviors of a routing path. 
We prepared a block of 50*50 2m as a section and a manager is located at the center of it. 5, 10, 
20, 40 and 100 nodes are randomly placed on the section. During a routing process, if the number 
of hops that a packet passes over is over four times the average number of AODV’s routing hops, 
we treat the routing a failed one, even packets in 2RP  will reach their destination finally. Fig. 8 
shows that AODV does not lose any packet since no isolated node is involved. RDSR and 2RP  
choose path randomly, and thus are suitable for dynamic network. But their packet losing rates, 
