 2 
 
目  錄 
 
1.中英文摘要                                                  3 
2. 計劃緣由與目的                                             3            
3.研究方法                                                    4            
4、結論                                                       7 
5、圖表                                                       8 
附件：出席國際會議報告                                       12 
 
 
 4 
 
transmission.  One way to overcome the problem is using micro resistance welding 
to achieve 3-D structure. 
Here, micro resistance welding with the in-situ micro electro-thermal actuator is 
proposed.  To realize three dimensional assembly using micro resustance welidng, a  
out-of-plane nickel micro structure to be lifted up by external magnetic field is also 
fabricated and assembled here.  In this study, a planar testing device and a out-of-
plane device are designed and fabricated.  In this study, the microactuator, which is 
fabricated next to the micro structures to provide the required contact force, will be 
helpful for assembly automation due to its capability of controlling contact conditions 
electronically.  Furthermore, the resistance welding process here only heats a 
localized region, which would be more efficient in energy consumption.  With the 
planar testing device, the operation parameters, such as contact pressure, contact 
resistance, welding energy, as well as the joint strength after welding are 
experimentally investigated and characterized to identify the feasible operation 
conditions in micro resistance welding.  Meanwhile, a out-of-plane device will be 
welded at upright position to achieve three dimensional assembly. 
 
3、 研究方法 
PRINCIPLE AND CONCEPT DESIGN 
Resistance welding is the fusion of materials at contact surfaces by the joule 
heating when the welding current runs through the workpieces.  As illustrated in 
figure 1, after pushing two workpieces together with proper contact pressure, the 
contact region has high contact resistance.  When welding current is applied and 
passing through contact points, temperature at contact region is raised due to joule 
heating. 
Resistance welding involves proper coordination of electrical current and 
mechanical pressure.  During resistance welding, electrical current passes from one 
electrode to another through pressed workpieces to generate heat.  Sufficient heat 
has to be generated to raise temperature of a confined volume to melting state.  
During the cool down stage, two workpieces are still under pressure to ensure 
adequate mechanical strength.  The amount of generated heat depends on welding 
time, current, and the resistance at the interface, which can be expressed as: 
Q=I2Rt          (1) 
where Q is heat generated, I is welding current, R is resistance at the interface 
or contact resistance, and t is welding time. 
In resistance welding, the contact resistance is determined by the conditions of 
contact points, including pressing force and surface properties of contact points, 
which governs the most characteristics of resistance welding process. 
 
3.1 Concept Design 
 
This study tends to understand the parameters of micro resistance welding and 
fabricate 3D micromachined structures.  To accomplish the goals, a planar testing 
device and a out-of-plane device are designed. 
Planar Testing Device 
In this planar testing device, the welding structure for this investigation includes 
three components: an actuation unit (AU), welding unit 1 (WU1), and welding unit 2 
(WU2), as shown in figure 2.  The actuation unit is composed of an array of bent-
beam electro-thermal microactuators which pushes the welding unit 1 forward to 
contact with the welding unit 2. 
 6 
 
These two types of devices – planar testing devices and out-of-plane devices – 
are fabricated with similar metal-based surface micromachining.  The major 
difference is a addtional electroplating step to form staples when fabricating out-of-
plane devices. 
The planar testing device here are fabricated by the metal-based surface 
micromachining technique.  This fabrication process is illustrated in . First, a 500 nm 
wet thermal oxide thin film as electrical isolation grown at 1050 °C in a conventional 
horizontal quartz furnace.  Then FH-6400 photoresistor is coated and patterned to 
act as the sacrificial layer, as shown in Figure 5 (b).  The Ti/Cu thin film of 20/120 nm 
is then deposited by DC-sputter as the adhesion and seed layer for electroplating.  In 
Figure 5 (c), another 15 µm-thick photoresistor layer, AZP-4620, is coated and 
patterned with the second mask.  After that, 10 µm-thick nickel is electroplated to 
form the metal structure.  The temperature of electroplating process is 50°C, and the 
current density is 20 mA/cm2.  After removing electroplating mold, AZP-4620, and 
the seed layer underneath the electroplated Ni structure, the device is then released 
by stripping the sacrificial layer FH6400 with acetone, as shown in Figure 5 (d).  The 
picture of fabricated structure by scanning electron microscope (SEM) is shown in 
figure 6. 
The out-of-planar device adapt similar fabrication process.  The most difference 
is using twice electroplating processes.  One is to electropate micro structure, and 
the other is to fabricate staples.  In the second electroplating,  it is tends to over 
electroplating to form mushroom-like shapes.  After releasing,  The out-of-planar 
structue can rotate freely by hinge structures and lift up by magnetic field.  Figure 7 
shows the fabricated out-of-plane device. 
 
MEASUREMENTS 
In order to investigate the performance of micro resistance welding technique, 
measurements on electrical and mechanical properties using the planar testing 
device are performed.  
In this study, welding current, contact resistance, and welding time are recorded 
during the resistance welding tests.  Furthermore, contact pressure having direct 
influence on the initial contact resistance which is defined as the contact resistance 
at welding site before welding is also recorded.  In contract to initial contact 
resistance, post contact resistance is defined as the resistance at welded site after 
welding.  The initial contact resistance reflects the surface conditions at the contact 
interface before welding, and the post contact resistance characterizes the quality of 
the welding results after welding.  
The schematic diagram to measure the electrical characteristics of the welding 
voltages and currents (Vw, Iw) as well as driving voltage and current (Vd, Id) for the 
thermal actuator is shown in figure 8, then the structural resistance and contact 
resistance, Rc, at welding site, can be calibrated. 
The measurement of welding strength is also performed using a probe tip to pull 
the welded joint.  By measuring the beam deflection of welding unit 2, the bonding 
force and the welding strength can be calculated from the spring constant and the 
deflection just before separation. 
The experimental setup is shown in figure 9.  A personal computer with LabView 
software sends control signals via GPIB interface to a DC power supply, and then 
DC welding voltage is applied to the welding structure.  Through a programmable 
power supply controlled by PC, the resolution of applying voltage is 0.01 V.  In order 
to avoid thermal shock, the welding voltage starts from zero and then gradually 
 8 
 
5、圖表 
 
Figure 1.  The principle of resistance welding.  (a) Two workpieces are pushed to 
contact with each other.  (b) By applying electrical potential, material around contact 
region can be melted due to local resistance heating. 
 
 
Figure 2.  Concept design – The planar testing device.  (a) The actuation unit (AU) 
pushes the welding unit 1 (WU1) to contact with unit 2 (WU2).  (b) Current passes 
through contact point and then welding current is turned off to cool down under 
pressure.  (c) Actuator unit is released. 
 
Figure 3.  Schematic diagram of three dimensional welding device including thermal 
actuators, mechanical springs, and a rotatable MEMS device. 
 10 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8.  Schematic diagram of 
measuring electrical characteristics 
Figure 9. Configuration of the 
measurement system. 
 
0 20 40 60 80
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
Initial Contact Resistance (Ohm)
C
o
n
ta
c
t 
P
re
s
s
u
re
 (
M
P
a
)
Measured Data
Fitted Curve
 
 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
W
e
ld
in
g
 S
tr
e
n
g
th
 (
M
P
a
)
Initial Contact Resistance (Ohm)
Measured Data
Fitted Curve
 
Figure 10. Contact resistance at different 
contact pressures before welding 
 Figure 11. Welding strength with different 
initial contact resistance 
 
 
 
<0.05 J 0.05~0.1 J 0.1~1 J 1~10J
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
Welding Energy (J)
N
u
m
b
e
r 
o
f 
T
ri
a
ls
Yield 0%
Yield 33.3%
Yield 58.3%
Yield 100%
Insufficient Heat Adequate Heat Yield Increasing
Successful Trials
Failed Trials
Yield(%)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Y
ie
ld
 (
%
)
 
Figure 12. The yield of welding process under different input energy 
 12 
 
出席國際會議報告 
會議名稱：2008 年美國西岸光電研討會議 
2008 SPIE Photonics West 
時間：2008年 1月 19日至 1月 24日 
地點：美國加州 San Jose 
報告人：交通大學機械系 博士班學生張駿偉 
發表論文題目:以微電阻焊進行微組裝的特性研究 
Characteristics Investigation of Micro Assembly by Micro Resistance Welding 
 
4、 參加會議經過 
SPIE Photonics West 美國西岸光電研討會議是由 SPIE (The International 
Society for Optical Engineering)每年召開一次的大型光電領域的學術與產業的研討
會。此會議固定在美國加州電子資訊產業重鎮俗稱矽谷的 San Jose 舉辦，而今年的時間則
為一月十九日至二十四日，會議一共舉行六天，這樣的長時間在學術研討會中相當少見，
由此可知此會議的盛大。此大會包含了四個主要會議 (symposium)，分別為 
1. BIOS 2008 
2. LASE 2008 
3. MOEMS/MEMS 2008 
4. OPTO 2008 
每個 symposium 由數個 Program 組成。例如: MOEMS/MEMS 由兩個 Program 分別是 
Micro/Nanofabrication 與 Devices/Applications/Reliability 所組成，BIOS 由五個 
Programs 組成，另外 LASE 與 OPTO 也分別由三個和六個 Programs 組成，而每個 Program 
又由數個主題不同的 Conference 組成，每個 Conference 又包含許多篇的論文。 
以筆者參加的 MOEMS/MEMS 2008 為例，其中 Devices/Applications/Reliability 的
Program 包含了五個 Conference，分別為: 
Reliability, Packaging, Testing 
MEMS/MOEMS Components and Their Applications V Special Focus   
Topics: Transducers at the Micro-Nano Interface 
Microfluidics, BioMEMS, and Medical Microsystems VI 
MOEMS and Miniaturized Systems VII 
MEMS Adaptive Optics II 
筆者所投稿的論文在第一個 Conference 當中, 安排在 22, Jan 當日上午 11:10 進
行口頭報告。 
由此如此大量而且細微的分類可知，此會議的學術發表文章非常的眾多。除了學術發
表之外，還有許多的 short courses 和超過百家廠商的展示。因此其規模可說是非常大的
一個會議。每年都吸引萬人以上參加。 
 14 
 
 
圖二: 商展的廠商攤位 
 
5、 與會心得 
藉著此次會議，筆者認識了一些微機電、光電研究的國外一流研究人員，跟他們交換
了彼此的研究心得，更透過這次會議大多數發表的論文題目走向，看到了未來微機電、光
電研究的方向。是一個不可多得之自我學習機會。 
此次會議規模之大，令人驚訝，筆者先前出國參加過三次會議，此次會議的規模是罕
見地盛大。尤其在 911 之後與美國經濟衰退的情況之下，還可以有如此多參加會議人數，
以及很大規模的光電商展，也顯示了光電領域研究者以及廠商對這個會議的重視。
Photonic West 有非常多的邀請演講，且文章數目極多，因此好文章也非常多。而且由於參
與人數極多，因此可做充分之意見交換。因此參加此會議，可以有很多的機會與外國研究
學者互相討論，對於學術文章發表來說，是一個很好的機會，透過各個國家學者看問題的
角度不同，來了解自己研究上的盲點，也能夠了解其他人對與這個研究所關心的重點在哪
裡，由此處好好下工夫，充實研究的內容與深度。 
參與此次會議，是第四參與國際性的微機電研討會，看到自己的研究成果能夠搬上檯
面展現在各國研究者面前，感到相當興奮與感動，並且在會中能夠同時見到多位 MEMS 領域
中的教授也是相當難得的一件事情。透過參與討論也能夠結交來自八方的新朋友與認識平
常不容易見到面的教授們，感到相當榮幸。 
此次感謝的補助，能讓我順利成行，此次會議由於內容豐富，雖只能利用零碎時間遊
覽，無法窺探聖荷西的全貌，有些可惜，但可感受到美國地大物博魅力。參與此次會議，
讓學生能暫時從研究工作中抽出身來，而專心在此一高水準會議中進行交流及學習，避免
與研究潮流脫節，感覺十分充實。 
 
出席國際學術會議報告 
NSC 95－2212－E －009－ 012  －MY2 
會議名稱：2008年第 21屆國際微機電系統研討會 
MEMS 2008 
21st IEEE International Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems 
時間：2008年 1月 13日至 1月 17日 
地點：美國 亞利桑那 土桑市(Tucson,AZ) 
報告人：交通大學機械系 博士班學生 黃元德 碩士班學生 胡皓宇 
 
 
一、 會議內容 
 
IEEE MEMS conference  起始於 1987年，當時採用名稱為 Micro 
Robots and Teleoperators Workshop，於 1999 年起，始更名為 IEEE 
Micro Electro Mechanical Systems Workshop，在過往的二十年間，
MEMS 明顯的發展壯大，多方多元的領域拓展，陸續包括了  Bio- 
MEMS，Optical MEMS，RF MEMS，Power MEMS，NEMS，等多種
有趣的研究領域。本會議在 MEMS 領域占有舉足輕重之影響，其中
也不乏有許多有創意之研究及發展，也將許多的技術進一步的加以應
用。 
今年度的會議，會議主辦單位總共收到 778 篇摘要，由 24 位技
術委員審核出 267 篇論文，這些論文再分類為 3 篇 invited 
lecture，42 篇 oral presentations，以及 224 篇的 poster，本大
會特別之處在於 2004 年創先採用 poster/oral presentation，所有
的 poster 都有安排演講時段，有別於其他會議 poster paper 僅有海
報可以閱讀，讓與會人員進一步可以和論文作者接洽了解。所有的論
文(Oral ,Poster)均收錄在大會發放的 Technical Digest 同時也有
電子檔收錄在 CD，以供與會人員參考利用。本次的會議主要切分以下
領域： 
1. Integrated Microsystems 
2. Microfludic Device & Systems 
3. Microactuators 
4. Biomedical Applications 
5. Microresonators 
6. Physical Sensors & Systems 
 3  
當扎實，令人嘆為觀止，另外就是歐洲，歐洲地區德國表現優異，論文錄
取量相當大，整個歐洲對於微機電研究和推進在會場的確是有目共睹。 
由於本次與會，我們總共有兩篇論文發表，所以分占兩天報告，國
外的學者積極和我們討論也給我們許多意見，這對於本實驗室未來發展方
向有很大的幫助，國外學者有創意的想法我們也很樂意的了解並和它們研
究討論，也有學者進一步留下聯絡方式。 
 
 
三、 與會心得 
 
本次參加國際會議，見識到世界上許多先進國家以及一流大學和
學術研究機構所做的研究，拓寬了自己的眼界，也認識到不論是大師
級的外國學者或是跟自己較為接近的國外一流博士碩士生，這次的機
會我認為收穫絕不僅在會議內的知識交流，同時也是知道全世界的動
向以及認識國外的學者，這些都是無價的資源，同時，也看到同是台
灣的大學登台演說，也了解我們國內的研究在國際間也是具備競爭力
的。 
很多收穫是在於討論切磋之間，單就我們所做的研究就有很好的
幫助，了解了不同的材料，不同的工藝手段，不同的應用，在反觀自
己還能加強些什麼，當然也練習到了語言能力，需要跟國外學者交
流，一開始還擔心要怎起頭，有趣的是，語言夾雜肢體動作和筆談還
是可以溝通，學習就是要不怕跨出這一步，大家可以互相切磋，看到
 5  
出席國際會議報告 
會議名稱：2008 年美國西岸光電研討會議 
2008 SPIE Photonics West 
時間：2008年 1月 19日至 1月 24日 
地點：美國加州 San Jose 
報告人：交通大學機械系 博士班學生張駿偉 
發表論文題目:以微電阻焊進行微組裝的特性研究 
Characteristics Investigation of Micro Assembly by Micro Resistance Welding 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
SPIE Photonics West 美 國 西 岸 光 電 研 討 會 議 是 由  SPIE (The 
International Society for Optical Engineering)每年召開一次的大型光電領
域的學術與產業的研討會。此會議固定在美國加州電子資訊產業重鎮俗稱矽谷的
San Jose 舉辦，而今年的時間則為一月十九日至二十四日，會議一共舉行六天，
這樣的長時間在學術研討會中相當少見，由此可知此會議的盛大。此大會包含了
四個主要會議 (symposium)，分別為 
1. BIOS 2008 
2. LASE 2008 
3. MOEMS/MEMS 2008 
4. OPTO 2008 
每個 symposium 由數個 Program 組成。例如: MOEMS/MEMS 由兩個 Program 
分別是 Micro/Nanofabrication 與 Devices/Applications/Reliability 所組
成，BIOS 由五個 Programs 組成，另外 LASE 與 OPTO 也分別由三個和六個 
Programs 組成，而每個 Program 又由數個主題不同的 Conference 組成，每個
Conference 又包含許多篇的論文。 
以 筆 者 參 加 的 MOEMS/MEMS 2008 為 例 ， 其 中 
Devices/Applications/Reliability 的 Program 包含了五個 Conference，分別
為: 
Reliability, Packaging, Testing 
MEMS/MOEMS Components and Their Applications V Special Focus   
Topics: Transducers at the Micro-Nano Interface 
Microfluidics, BioMEMS, and Medical Microsystems VI 
MOEMS and Miniaturized Systems VII 
MEMS Adaptive Optics II 
筆者所投稿的論文在第一個 Conference 當中, 安排在 22, Jan 當日上午 
11:10 進行口頭報告。 
 7  
 
圖二: 商展的廠商攤位 
 
二、 與會心得 
藉著此次會議，筆者認識了一些微機電、光電研究的國外一流研究人員，跟
他們交換了彼此的研究心得，更透過這次會議大多數發表的論文題目走向，看到
了未來微機電、光電研究的方向。是一個不可多得之自我學習機會。 
此次會議規模之大，令人驚訝，筆者先前出國參加過三次會議，此次會議的
規模是罕見地盛大。尤其在 911 之後與美國經濟衰退的情況之下，還可以有如此
多參加會議人數，以及很大規模的光電商展，也顯示了光電領域研究者以及廠商
對這個會議的重視。Photonic West 有非常多的邀請演講，且文章數目極多，因
此好文章也非常多。而且由於參與人數極多，因此可做充分之意見交換。因此參
加此會議，可以有很多的機會與外國研究學者互相討論，對於學術文章發表來
說，是一個很好的機會，透過各個國家學者看問題的角度不同，來了解自己研究
上的盲點，也能夠了解其他人對與這個研究所關心的重點在哪裡，由此處好好下
工夫，充實研究的內容與深度。 
參與此次會議，是第四參與國際性的微機電研討會，看到自己的研究成果能
夠搬上檯面展現在各國研究者面前，感到相當興奮與感動，並且在會中能夠同時
見到多位 MEMS 領域中的教授也是相當難得的一件事情。透過參與討論也能夠結
交來自八方的新朋友與認識平常不容易見到面的教授們，感到相當榮幸。 
此次感謝的補助，能讓我順利成行，此次會議由於內容豐富，雖只能利用零
碎時間遊覽，無法窺探聖荷西的全貌，有些可惜，但可感受到美國地大物博魅
力。參與此次會議，讓學生能暫時從研究工作中抽出身來，而專心在此一高水準
會議中進行交流及學習，避免與研究潮流脫節，感覺十分充實。 
 
 9  
FABRICATION OF POLYMER-BASED VERTICAL COMB DRIVE USING A 
DOUBLE-SIDE MULTIPLE PARTIAL EXPOSURE METHOD 
Junwei Chung, Yuande Huang, and Wensyang Hsu 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chiao Tung University, 
1001 Ta Hsueh Road, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
 
ABSTRACT 
A novel approach by using a double-side multi partial 
exposure (DoMPE) method to fabricate the polymer-based 
vertical comb drive with the thick photoresist AZ9260® as 
the structural material is proposed.  With the front-side 
partial exposure to define height of the fixed lower fingers 
and back-side partial exposure to create suspending space of 
the upper fingers, the staggering sets of fingers with a 
proper initial overlap and self-alignment are easily achieved 
without any additional sacrificial layer.  The metal layer is 
finally deposited on the structural surface by sputtering for 
the suitable electrical conductivity to activate the polymer 
vertical comb drive (VCD).  The operation model is 
performed by the theoretical analysis and FEM simulation, 
and the static deflection and dynamic response of the 
polymer VCDs are characterized finally.  By comparing the 
analytical and experimental results, the feasibility on the 
fabrication of polymer VCD is verified with a measured 
rotation angle of 2.31º under the driving voltage of 158.3V. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
As a well known component, the electrostatic comb 
drive has rapidly occupied an important position in 
microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology since 
the first report by Tang et al. [1].  With typically two sets of 
comb fingers, the comb drives provide good linearity on 
output force and capacitive sensing over a considerable 
displacement range because of the constant gap between the 
stationary finger and movable finger during the operation. 
In addition to operation in the in-plane direction, the 
comb drive has also been fabricated with two sets of fingers 
owning a vertical offset to cause the out-of-plane motion, 
which is called the vertical comb drive (VCD) and is very 
suitable for the applications requiring the large out-of-plane 
displacement, low driving voltage, low power consumption, 
and high operation speed.  For these superior characteristics, 
lots of investigations on the VCDs have been reported in the 
recent decade [2-8].  In these literatures, the fabrication 
methods could be divided into two categories.  The first 
approach fabricated two sets of fingers owing a natural 
offset, such as the SUMMiT-V process [2], the bonding 
method [3], the SOI-based technique combining the DRIE 
etching [4], and the micromachining on (111) single-crystal 
silicon substrate [5].  The second approach used the 
deforming mechanism to elevate or degrade one set of the 
comb fingers to create the required initial offset, such as the 
bending beam caused by residual stress [6], the photoresist 
reflowing [7], and annealing [8].  All these above mentioned 
methods used the single-crystal silicon or polysilicon as the 
structural materials. 
In contrast to the silicon-based materials, the polymer 
has become another attractive material in the MEMS 
technology recently because of their relatively low cost and 
much easier processing steps.  For example, the micro 
fluidic devices for micro total analysis systems (µ–TAS) 
applications were widely fabricated by PMMA, PC, 
polypropylene (PP), and polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), etc. 
[9].  Furthermore, the active micro devices have also been 
demonstrated by polymer materials, such as the electrostatic 
comb drive constructed by PMMA via the hot embossing 
technique [10], or by the thick negative photoresist SU-8 
[11].  The accelerometer has also been fabricated by using 
SU-8 as the structural material [12].  Therefore, polymer is 
becoming a greatly important low cost alternative to their 
silicon or glass-based counterparts.  However, no VCD 
made of polymer material has been reported yet. 
In this paper, a novel approach to fabricate the polymer 
VCD is proposed.  Without any additional sacrificial layer, 
the proposed double-side multiple partial exposure (DoMPE) 
method [13] is applied to the positive photoresist AZ9260® 
to carve out the suspending upper fingers and the fixed 
lower fingers.  .  This approach provides a simple, flexible, 
and low cost solution to fabricate the polymer VCDs. 
 
2. OPERATION AND ANALYSIS 
As the schematic illustration shown in Fig. 1, the VCD 
demonstrated in this paper consists of two sets of comb 
fingers.  One set of fingers is fixed on the substrate, and the 
other set of fingers is suspended and connected to the 
suspending plate.  With the voltage applied between the 
upper and lower fingers, the VCD could be driven into 
torsional motion by the electrostatic force until it is balanced 
by the mechanical force of the torsion springs.  By solving 
the force balance equation, the relationship of driving 
voltage and torsion angle could be determined. 
In general, the electrostatic force generated by the comb 
drive with n finger pairs is given by 
2
2
)( V
dz
dCn
zFe =
    (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: The schematic illustration of the vertical comb 
 11  
which the upper and lower fingers are self-aligned.  After all 
the exposure procedure, the final development is performed, 
and the VCD is released without any additional sacrificial 
layer and etching step (Fig. 5(f)).  To provide the desired 
electrical conductivity, a thin Cu layer with thickness of 
2000 Å is deposited on the structural surface by sputtering.  
4. RESULTS AND DISSICUSIONS 
Photoresist Processing 
In general, the development depth of photoresist is 
mainly controlled by the exposure dosage.  However, other 
processing parameters of photoresist, such as the 
development time and soft-bake time, also play important 
roles in this process.  In addition to the increase of exposure 
dosage, longer development time will also enlarge the 
development depth of photoresist, but this enlargement 
could be evidently reduced by the longer soft-bake time.  
Therefore,  proper parameters are needed to obtain stable 
fabrication results.  Here, the photoresist thickness about 
55 µm, the soft-bake time of 90 minutes and the 
development time of 45 minutes are employed on the 
fabrication of polymer VCDs.  Figure 5 shows the 
development depths of AZ9260® under different exposure 
dosages.  The results reveal that the development depth 
increases stably with the increasing exposure dosage.  
Depending on these experimental data, the desired 
suspending space of upper fingers and the height of lower 
fingers could be fabricated by using the corresponding 
dosages.  
 
Fabrication Results 
With photoresist processing conditions described above, 
the polymer VCDs are fabricated by the DoMPE process.  
Figure 6(a) shows the fabricated VCD made of AZ9260® 
after the final deposition of Cu by sputtering.  The 
introduced partial exposure dosage of 426 mJ/cm2 creates 
the development depth about 20 µm in the front-side 
direction.  By the introduced partial exposure dosage of 525 
mJ/cm2 in the backside direction, the suspending space of 
upper fingers about 24 µm is obtained.  Figure 7(b) shows 
the top view of the finger structures.  Finally, the torsion 
springs near the set of upper fingers are removed by the 
manual probe locally with the tip diameter about 10 µm for 
the following measurement. 
 
Measurements and Comparison 
The static deflection and dynamic response of the 
polymer VCD are measured by the white light 
interferometer and the MEMS motion analyzer, respectively.  
According to the measurement on static deflection, the 
maximum rotation angle of 2.31º can be achieved by the 
driving voltage of 158.3V with the same dimensions shown 
in figure 6.  Figure 7 shows the measured results of dynamic 
response, and the first-mode natural frequency of 6.6 kHz is 
obtained.  With this characterized natural frequency, the 
elastic modulus could be found by further determining the 
density of photoresist.  Here, a simple experiment is 
performed to obtain the density of AZ9260®.  The 
photoresist is spin-coated on a wafer with the calibrated 
weight, and then patterned into a circle with a specified 
diameter.  By determining the increase of total weight and 
the final thickness of photoresist film, the density of 
photoresist could be obtained through the characterized 
value of weight over volume.  Then, with the determined 
density of 1180±7 Kg/m3 and first natural frequency of 
6.6 kHz, the effective elastic modulus of 1.142 GPa is found 
by FEM simulation, where the Poisson’s ratio is assumed as 
0.4.  By these material properties, the static deflection of 
polymer VCD is calculated by the software Matlab through 
the analytical model.  Figure 8(a) shows the experimental 
and analytical results of the polymer VCD, where the latter 
includes the cases with and without the bottom plate.  In the 
analytical results, the case with bottom plate exhibits a 
similar behavior to that without bottom plate in the first half 
stroke, but there is a pull-in effect at the rotation angle of 
2.17º with the applied voltage of 167.37V. By comparing to 
experimental results, where a snapping phenomenon is also 
observed between the voltages of 158.3V and 161.8V, the 
bottom plate effect has an evident influence on the 
performance of VCD, especially at high driving voltage.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: The relationship between the development depth 
and the exposure dosage of the photoresist AZ9260
®
. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
(a) 
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600
Exposure Dosage (mJ/cm2)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
D
ev
el
op
m
en
t 
D
ep
th
 (
µ
m
)
 13  
Technol., vol. 13, pp. 271–277, 2007. 
[12] S.J. Jeong and W. Wang, “Microaccelerometers using 
cured SU-8 as structural material”, Proc. of SPIE, vol. 
5344, pp. 115–123, 2004. 
[13] J. Chung and W. Hsu, “Enhancement on forming 
complex three dimensional microstructures by a 
double-side multiple partial exposure method”, Journal 
of Vacuum Science and Technology B, 25,1671, 2007. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15  
entrance or exit. By proper clipping force, these three layers 
could laterally slip to release the stress during bending 
without losing contact. As for the interface electrodes at two 
ends, they are designed for electrical transmission from 
module to module. 
In order to minimize number of contact pads, a 
multiphase bus [3] of control electrodes is used in the 
flexible module. With three-phase bus design, only three 
contact pads are required for unlimited control electrodes to 
actuate droplet with two-way movement. 
 
Connecting modules 
Connecting module is a component that connects 
flexible modules for mechanical assembly, electrical 
transmission and droplet transportation. Two types of 
connecting module are designed, basic and I/O modules. 
The basic module is used for connecting flexible modules. 
The I/O module not only has the same function as the base 
module, but also provides power input and signal output. 
The concept of socket and plug-and-play is adopted in 
the connecting module here. In 2003, Yang and Maeda 
demonstrated a socket for microchip to interconnect micro- 
and macro-world in continuous flow systems [6], in which 
both electrical and fluidic connections were established by 
the socket. For the concept of plug-and-play, in 2002, Igata 
et al. proposed a reversible bonding technique to realize the 
concept [7]. Here, by combination of both concepts, a 
reusable, socket-type and plug-and-play connector without 
bonding for digital microfluidics is developed. 
 
Figure 3: Two types of connecting module. (a) Details in 
basic module. The inset is explosive view of the module. (b) 
The I/O module. 
 
Figure 3(a) shows the details of basic module, where 
the inset indicates detached layers in the module. To be 
compatible with the flexible module, shorter control 
substrate and ground cover are designed upside down to be 
a complementary socket for connecting flexible module. For 
the spacer between control substrate and ground cover, two 
strips of double side print circuit board (PCB) are adopted, 
because the electricity need to be transmitted from the 
substrate to the cover via interface electrodes on both sides 
of PCB strips. Insertion guides are laid along the outer edge 
of spacers on PCB strips to form the socket for leading the 
interface electrodes of flexible modules to contact with 
interface electrode of connector module through the spacer 
properly. The detailed design of interface electrodes will be 
discussed in the following paragraph. For I/O module, it has 
the similar configuration as base module, as shown in Fig. 
4(b), except the additional contact pads are designed on the 
control substrate to provide I/O capability for power and 
signal connections. 
 
Interface between flexible and connecting modules 
The interface between the flexible and connecting 
module is sketched in Fig. 4. By a complementary two-plate 
design, when a flexible module is plugged into a connecting 
module, an overlapping region is generated between two 
interfacial gaps, assuring electric connections and fluidic 
(droplets) transportations. 
 
Figure 4: Design of the interface between flexible and 
connecting modules. 
 
At the interface between flexible and connecting 
module, two kinds of interface electrodes are designed for 
electrical transmission and droplet transportation 
respectively. As mentioned in previous section, interface 
electrodes are placed at both ends of flexible and connecting 
module for the connections. Figure 4 shows the interface 
while flexible module plugging into connecting module. 
The electric interface electrodes on both control substrates 
can transmit electrical signal from connector module 
through the spacer (PCB strips) to the flexible module. Due 
to three-phase bus design, total four electrodes are enough 
Flexible module 
Connecting module 
Interface gaps 
Overlapping 
region 
Connecting 
module 
Interconnection pads 
Flexible 
module 
Droplet 
Interface 
Interface 
electrodes 
Insertion guides 
Socket 
Control 
electrodes Ground 
electrode 
Spacers 
Ground cover 
Spacers 
Control substrate 
Socket bottom plate 
Socket top cover 
(a) 
Contact 
pads 
To control circuits 
(b) 
 17  
overlapping region. When electrode 3 and 4 are 
subsequently turned on, the droplet arrives at the center of 
the overlapping region. Again, when electrode 1 and 5 are 
on in the 4th period, the droplet touches the right gap. 
Finally, it leaves the gap and the overlapping region in the 
following periods. 
 
 
Figure 7: Interface tests. (a) Control sequences for droplet 
at the interface. (b) Droplet images at each period. 
 
Wristband-like platform 
A wristband-like platform is assembled to demonstrate 
the proposed modularization technique, as shown in Fig. 8. 
Two flexible modules, one basic connecting module, and 
one I/O connecting module are used here to assemble the 
platform. In flexible modules, 61 electrodes (59 control 
electrodes and 2 ground electrodes) are patterned on the 
control substrate of 92.73 mm in length and 15 mm in width. 
The thickness of polymer strips in flexible spacer is 0.5 mm, 
and ground cover is about 86.3 mm in length, and also 
15 mm in width. In both connecting modules, 11 electrodes 
(9 control electrodes and 2 ground electrodes) are on the 
16.75 mm long and 15 mm wide control substrate, and 
ground electrode is on the cover with 7.54 mm long and 
15 mm wide. A 2.5 µl droplet is pumping at a speed of 
15.1 mm/s with applied voltage of 100 VAC. The obtained 
fastest speed of the droplet is 105.7 mm/s with 120 VAC 
applied. 
 
Figure 8: Droplet transportation on the wristband-like 
platform at a speed of 15.1 mm/s (switching frequency is 10 
Hz). 
 
5. CONCLUSION 
Here a wristband-like platform is assembled through 
three kinds of digital microfluidic modules to demonstrate 
the proposed chip-to-chip interconnection design. Since the 
modules are fabricated on the flexible substrate, the 
proposed technique can transport droplets between 
microfluidic chips even at different planes. By using more 
compliant substrate, it is possible to further reduce the 
curvature of the flexible module. Furthermore, by modifying 
the electrode layout, the technique proposed here shows a 
promising approach leading to a multi-layer microfluidic 
chip, or the lab-on-a-chip with capability of 3-D droplet 
transportation. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
Authors would like to thank the Nano Facility Center at 
National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan for 
providing fabrication facilities, and the Join Well Co., Ltd 
for supporting the ITO PET films and related technical 
services. This work is partially supported by the National 
Science Council, Taiwan, under grant NSC 95-2218-E-009-
023. 
 
2. REFERENCES 
[1] M. G. Pollack, A. D. Shenderov, and R. B. Fair, Lab 
Chip, 2, pp. 96-101, 2002. 
[2] S. K. Cho, H. Moon, and C.-J. Kim, J. 
Microelectromech. Syst., 12, pp. 70-80, 2003. 
[3] V. Srinivasan, V. K. Pamula and R. B. Fair, Lab Chip, 4, 
pp. 310-315, 2004. 
[4] C. K. Fredrickson, and Z. H. Fan, Lab Chip, 4, pp. 526-
533, 2004. 
[5] B. G. Lewis, and D. C. Paine, MRS Bull., 25, pp. 22-27, 
2000. 
[6] Z. Yang, and R. Maeda, J. Chromatogr. A, 1013, pp. 
29-33, 2003. 
[7] E. Igata, M. Arundell, H. Morgan, and J. M. Cooper, 
Lab Chip, 2, 65-69, 2002. 
[8] M. Vallet, B. Berge, and L Vovelle, Polymer, 37, 2465-
2470, 1996. 
(1) 0 s (2) 3 s 
(3) 6 s (4) 9 s 
2 cm 
2 mm 
(1) (2) (3) 
(4) (5) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
E
le
c
tr
o
d
e
 
1 2 3 
4 5 6 
Flexible module 
Connecting module 
(a) 
(b) 
Overlapping 
region 
