 2
other nodes. Cooperative signal processing 
among neighboring nodes may contribute both 
sensitivity and specificity to environmental event 
detection. Locally processed information may be 
conveyed to users through energy-efficient 
wireless communication [1-2]. An interesting 
example of a sensor network technology is given 
by the ‘Smart Dust’ project which is developing 
tiny sensors [3]. Its goal is to make sensors so 
small and cheap that they can be distributed in 
large numbers over an area by random 
scattering. 
Low power consumption is paramount to 
enable a long operating lifetime for a wireless 
sensor network. Along with the requirement of 
low cost implementation, these motivate the 
development of dramatically new low-power 
communication systems and their enabling 
complementary metal oxide semiconductor 
(CMOS) circuit techniques optimized for 
wireless sensor applications. In the following 
sections, we will describe the whole system and 
circuit design considerations for smart sensor 
networks. To perform all these functions, a 
sensor node includes many sub-systems which 
for minimizing the power consumption and 
reducing the cost can be integrated in a single 
system-on-chip (SoC). 
In this project, a novel system architecture 
including smart sensors, signal processing, 
analog to digital converter (ADC), power 
management and power generator is proposed. 
Fig. 1 shows five main components in the system 
and operation. Environmental events will be 
translated to signals by sensors detecting and 
specific physical parameter in the design would 
be focused. These signals display the all kinds of 
requirement what we need. Due to 
environmental output signals are quite small and 
noise is too large to recognize which one is the 
main target, thus signal processing will be built 
to compute these data. Signal conditioning will 
amplifier sensor output signal and ADC 
translates these data to digital output. Power 
generator is the voltage source and power 
management translates the source to be a small 
supply voltage for back end circuit blocks 
because voltage source is too large for operation 
in the system. 
 
三、 研究方法及成果 
For our consideration, interface is the 
critical point in the system and we establish a 
relationship between these components. 
Therefore, low power and scale down are the 
main requirements, each sensor or circuits will 
reduce their power consumption as smaller as 
possible. There are five main components about 
design, simulation and fabrication described as 
below:  
 
3.1 Sensor 
A prestress vertical comb drive resonator 
with piezoresisted sensor is developed. The 
proposed resonator consists of a set of comb 
fingers fabricated along the composite beam. 
One end of the composite beam is clamped to the 
anchor, whereas the other end is elevated 
vertically by the residual stress. The actuation 
occurs when the electrostatic force, induced by 
the fringe effect, pulls the composite beam 
downward to the substrate. Fig. 2 schematically 
depicts a resonator with different driven states 
[4]. Fig. 2(a) shows the initial state of the 
resonator which the free end of the composite 
beam is elevated due to the residual stress 
between the two deposited materials. When a 
voltage, V, is applied between the movable and 
fixed comb, the movable composite beam can be 
pulled downward to the substrate by the 
electrostatic force induced by the fringe effect, 
as shown in Fig. 2(b). As the driving voltage is 
increased, the vertical displacement of the free 
end of the resonator is increased. The 
electrostatic force is constrained when the 
movable comb finger is closed to the fixed comb 
finger, independently of the input driving 
voltage, as shown in Fig. 2(c). 
The piezoresistor is designed to sense the 
vertical vibration frequency of the resonator. The 
resistance value of piezoresistor is changed with 
the deflection of the resonator. The piezoresistor 
 4
3.5 Power Management 
A wide input voltage range 
switch-capacitor step-down converter is 
presented. To conform the voltage from the 
MEMS power generator, the Vanguard High 
Voltage CMOS process is used on this circuit 
design. Using the cascade switch-capacitor cell, 
we obtain a low voltage to provide the back end 
circuit blocks. This designed converter will 
detect the input voltage to judge the converter or 
battery to supply the back end circuit. 
As shown in Fig. 10, it is a single and 
simple cell structure of the switch–capacitor step 
down DC-DC converter with output ratio equals 
1/2 [8-10]. Capacitors C1 and C2 are set equal. 
There are two operation stages. In stage 1, 
switches S1 and S2 are closed. S3, S4 and S5 are 
opened. Therefore, current flow from Vin to 
ground through C1 and C2. As C1 and C2 are set 
equal, the voltage across C1 as well as C2 is 
charged to 1/2*Vin. And then in stage 2, 
switches S3, S4 and S5 are closed. S1 and S2 are 
opened. Therefore, current flow through S4 from 
C1 to Cout, through S5 from C2 to Cout. At the 
mean time, the voltage at Vout is equal to 
1/2*Vin. 
The target of this design is to convert the 
power generated by the MEMS device to the 
back end device with the proper voltage. In this 
concern, we should check the source voltage 
from the front end device (MEMS) and the rated 
voltage of the back end circuit (sensor, signal 
conditioning and ADC). 
To consider the rated voltage of the back 
end circuit is 1 V, and the voltage is useful to 
reduce the power consumption. The architecture 
of the converter is shown in Fig. 11, and it will 
output the adaptable voltage, around 1~1.2V. 
 
3.6 System integration 
In general, each component is connected by 
using wire bonding, but it needs more area to 
design. This research emphasis on scale down 
and low power consumption, so it must be 
smaller as possible as we could. Thus, flip chip 
technology is one of solution to package all the 
components. As shown in Fig. 12, for example, 
all sensors and circuits could be integrated in one 
chip, and the power generator component made 
by MEMS process could be integrated by flip 
chip technology. Advantages of flip chip are 
connection each component and saving area to 
package. There can be two more layers to 
package, in other words, we can design two 
layers chip to combine these components and do 
not need the whole area, just need half area. 
Besides, fabrication process is also an important 
issue in the research. We will combine all 
components in the same kind fabrication process 
in the future in order to be smaller and 
performance improved. 
 
四、 結論與討論 
A novel integration architecture which 
including sensors, signal amplifier, analog to 
digital converter, power management and power 
generation is proposed in this project. The 
interface between each components and the 
whole architecture of sensor network are 
established. Scale down and power consumption 
are the most important keys for the system. 
Integration of sensor, signal conditioning and 
A/D converter implemented by standard 0.18um 
1P6M CMOS process and post-CMOS process is 
submitted to National Chip Implementation 
Center (CIC) for fabrication service. All 
components will be tested for whole system and 
each signal component. In the future, more kinds 
of sensor and lower power consumption in 
sensor network field will be integrated. 
 
五、 參考文獻 
1. William J. Kaiser and Gregory J. Pottie, 
“Integrated Low-Power Communication 
System Design for Wireless Sensor 
Networks.” IEEE Communications 
Magazine, 2004 IEEE. 
2. Andrew D. DeHennis and Kensall D. Wise, 
“ A Wireless Microsystem for the Remote 
Sensing of Pressure, Temperature, and 
Relative Humidity” Journal of 
