1計畫名稱：建構高效能建築物變位安全鑑定系統之研究(III)
摘要
國內建築物常因緊鄰之工地施工造成傾斜，或因屋主的超載使用，使得建築物形成
過多裂縫或變形，傳統監測方法僅為單點單方向，無法提供建築物整體之資訊。本研究擬
採用 3D 雷射掃描儀搭配數位照相機攝影後之影像處理，建構一個快速、整體且高精度的
建築物安全監測系統，提供一般民眾對其居住場所安全現況之資訊。
本研究分三年度進行，本計畫為第三年。第一年完成用 3D 雷射掃描儀進行建築物
現場掃描並自行開發掃描點雲計算結構變形程式。第二年完成建築物工程安全法規資料庫
與以類神經網路進行結構變形最佳量測規劃。第三年完成以數位相片結合 Photomodeler
與 Google SketchUp 程式進行結構物變形量測技術之開發，最後綜合各類建築物結構變形
量測提出整合模式。
關鍵詞：結構變位, 雷射掃描, 數位相機, 整合模式
Abstract
Buildings in Taiwan frequently suffer from deformation and cracks usually caused by
adjacent site construction or overloading. Unfortunately, the traditional building monitoring
system could only provide the data of one location with one direction. In this research, the data
acquired from 3D laser scanner and integrated with the digital camera-processed images are
adopted to setup a rapid, global and highly precise building safety monitoring system. This high
effective building safety system can provide the monitoring data when the deformation of the
building exceeds the allowable limits of the building safety codes.
The research has been scheduled to be completed in three years. This project is a third- year
plan. In the first year, structural tests are conducted and monitored by a 3D laser scanner, and
the computer program is self-developed. In the second year, three items have been finished as
follows: 1. Analyzing and computing the structural deformation of the practical building. 2.
Setting up the database of buildings safety codes. 3. Analyzing the optimum observation order
of the structural deformation by the artificial neural network. In this third year, the
measurement technology of the structural deformation by the consumer digital camera with
Photomodeler and Google SketchUp program is developed. Finally, the integrated deformation
model combined with various instruments and methods is finished. .
Keyword: Structural Deformation, Laser Scanner, Digital Camera, Integrated Model .
3本研究以photomodeler 軟體程式為基礎，利用一般的數位相機至少拍攝兩張以上的
建築物相片。首先率定數位相機的內方位，再利用兩張以上的相片形成建築物立體模型，
並據以量測3D結構變形。這是一種價廉快速方便的量測3D結構變形之技術。
圖1為一般的數位相機 CANON 550D 率定相機的內方位的情形。
圖1 率定CANON 550D 數位相機內方位
數位相機率定內方位後，即可對欲鑑定結構變形之建築物進行拍攝兩張以上的相片，
並將建築物攝影圖片導入 Google SketchUp，繪出建築物 3D 示意圖。
Google 併購 SketchUp 後，特地開放 Google SketchUp 免費版本以擴大使用對象，可
結合 GoogleEarth 將 3D 模型應用應用在各種領域，包括建築、室內設計、機械設計、景
觀設計、GIS、舞台設計....等。由於 Google SketchUp 提供媒合照片(photomatch)功能，
本研究將建築物攝影圖片導入 Google SketchUp 進行快速建構 3D 模型及量測；其操作程
序說明如下:
(1) 取得建築物攝影圖片，取景應於建築物角隅位置以達到最佳效果，如圖 2所示。
(2) 開啟 Google SketchUp『媒合照片』指令，如圖 3所示。
5針對欲鑑定結構變形之建築物進行拍攝兩張以上的相片後，再利用攝影測量
Photomodeler 軟體程式可量測結構裂縫之大小，如以下之裂縫量測範例說明：
(1) 使用 CANON 550D 高解析數位單眼相機及 EF-S 18-55mm 變焦鏡頭(使用 18mm 焦距，已
率定)並配合5000mm長箱型標尺作為長度標準，拍攝圖片(5184x3456畫素)如圖7所示：
圖 7
(2) 利用 PHOTOMODELER 標計裂縫點位(使用磁磚勾縫交點)及 5000mm 標尺端點，如圖 8示：
圖 8
(3) 利用 PHOTOMODELER 匯出所有點位之 2D 圖素座標，如圖 9示：
7圖10
量測結果經與台灣省土木技師公會之裂縫量尺比較，精度可高達 0.1cm等級。
四、結合其他結構變形量測資料之整合模式
除了 3D 雷射掃描與一般的數位相機量測 3D 結構變形， 建築物結構變形量測的方式
尚有(1) 一般的測量方法（使用經緯儀、水準儀、電子測距儀…等) (2)大地方法(使用
伸縮計、應變計、傾斜計…等)。如能將各種變形量測方式加以整合分析整體變形(global
deformation)，以提供正確可靠的變形值使用是較好的方式。
4-1 變形基本分析
結構變形可用 9個變形參數(包括 6個應變及 3個旋角)來描述。
各點之變形函數可以下矩陣式表示：
d x y z t
u x y z t
v x y z t
w x y z t
BC( , , , )
( , , , )
( , , , )
( , , , )











 (1)
式中 u，v，w為 x，y，z軸之位移分量。
B為變形矩陣，其元素為觀測點位置與時間之函數。
C為變形參數向量，詳如(2 ) 式。
如果有多餘觀測，則未知係數向量 C可藉由最小二乘法求得：
C=(BT PΔL B)-1 BT PΔL ΔL (2)
式中 PΔL為ΔL之權矩陣
L 為觀測量差值。
9五、結論與建議
本計畫目的在開發方便、價廉、高精度之量測新技術，建構高效能建築物變位安全鑑
定系統之研究。經過一系列的試驗和研究。得到之結論與建議如下：
1. 3D雷射掃描之點數密集，可獲得建築物整體的變形，掃描點的結果包含了三維座標，
可同時獲得建築物三個方向的變形，且量測時並不需與結構物接觸，而精度可高達
0.01cm。可用於需要高精度測定之建築物變位安全鑑定。
2. 3D雷射掃描之儀器費用較昂貴，且操作較繁雜。為了降低儀器費用，本研究另外發展
以一般的數位相機拍攝建築物，以Photomodeler軟體處理量測3D結構變形，並以Google
SketchUp 呈現出3D示意圖，方便價廉、時效佳而且精度可高達 0.1cm等級。可用於一
般需要快速測定之建築物變位安全鑑定。
3. 除了3D雷射掃描與一般的數位相機量測3D結構變形，尚可將使用經緯儀、水準儀、電
子測距儀…等一般的測量方法與使用伸縮計、應變計、傾斜計…等大地方法加以整合
分析整體變形，以提供正確可靠的變形值。其最佳變形整合模式推導如第4節所示。
4. 本研究得到的結果已可有效用於一般之建築物變位安全鑑定，對於其他特殊工程如橋
樑、隧道、飛機、船舶或工廠之結構變位安全鑑定，建議針對其特性做進一步之研究。
七、參考文獻
1. Cichocki, A., and Unbehauen, R., 1993. Neural Networks for Optimization and Signal
Processing, John Wiley & Sons Ltd. & B. G. Teubner, Stuttgart, pp.526.
2. ASCE/SEI 41-06, “Seismic Rehabilitation of Existing Buildings,”American Society of
Civil Engineers, Reston, V.A. (2007).
3. Sezen H, and Moehle J.P., “Seismic Tests of Concrete Columns with Light Transverse
Reinforcement,”ACI Structural Journal, 103(6):842-849(2006).
4. Y.M. Chang , C.H.Chen and K.T.Chang (2010), “A High Effective Monitoring Design for
Structural Deformation with the Anneal Neural Network”, Geo-Information for Disaster Management
2010 Conference, Torino, Italy, 2-4, February
5. K.T.Chang , J.K.Lin, Y.M. Chang and C.S.Kao (2010), “An Accuracy Comparison for the
Landslide Inventory with the BPNN and SVM Methods”, Geo-Information for Disaster Management
2010 Conference, Torino, Italy, 2-4, February.
6. Yu-Min Chang , Shang-Hsien Lai, Shy-Ming Peng ，K.T.Chang and Yaw-Shen Tu (2008),
“Data Processing of 3D Laser Scanning on Structural Deformation”, Federation Internationale des
Geometres 2008, Stockholm, Sweden,14-19,June.
7. K.T.Chang, Y.M.Chang , E.H.Wang , S.M.Peng(2008), “Apply a Terrestrial Laser Scanner on the
Measurement of Structural Deformation”, Asian Conference on Remote Sensing 2008, Colombo,
Sri Lanka, 10-14,November.
8. Shang-Hsien Lai, Yaw-Shen Tu, Yu-Min Chang, Shy-Ming Peng and Yung-Chuan Chen(2008),
“Development of High Efficient Structure Deformation Monitoring System”, Eleven East
Asia-Pacific Conference on Structural Engineering & Construction(EASEC-11),Taipei, Taiwan.
9. Yu-Min Chang , Shy-Ming Peng, Yung-Chuan Chen and Yaw-Shen Tu (2008), “A High Efficient
Monitoring System of Building Safety by 3D Laser Scanning”, Federation Internationale des
Geometres 2008, Stockholm, Sweden,14-19,June.
10. Kuan-Tsung Chang, Edward Wang, Yu-Min Chang and Hong-Kuei Cheng(2008),“Post-Disaster
Structural Evaluation using a Terrestrial Laser Scanner”, Federation Internationale des Geometres,
Stockholm, Sweden, 14-19, June.
11
出席國際學術會議心得報告
出席 2010 年 Gi4DM 空間資訊災害管理國際研討會議報告
張裕民
德霖技術學院 營建科技系教授
一、Gi4DM(International Conference of Geomatics for Disaster Management)
Gi4DM 空間資訊災害管理國際研討會於 2010 年 2 月 2 日至 4 日於義大利杜林(Italy,
Torino)盛大舉行。有 500 多位來自歐洲及世界各地之相關專家學者與會及廠商參展。
二、參加會議經過
由台灣搭乘華航直飛羅馬，再乘 EuroStar 火車至杜林(Torino)，2 月 2 日開幕，由 Gi4DM
2010 大會主席 Piero Boccardo 主持，由國際攝影測量及遙測協會(ISPRS)主任委員 Orhan
Attan 就空間資訊防災管理的發展狀況進行專題演講。聯合國外太空中心(United Nations
Office for Outer Space Affairs, UNOOSA)的 Robert Backhaus 博士也報告了太空資訊提供的
防災管理技術，相當前瞻。
2 月 2 日至 2 月 4 日展開研討會，此次 Gi4DM 之主題在數位資訊的防災管理，包含山
坡地崩塌監控及數據處理，GIS 及 G11DA 之資料處理及提供支援、地震及土石流之預警系
統等等，內容頗為廣泛。
個人發表的論文有二篇：1. A high effective monitoring design for structural deformation
with the anneal neural network. 2. An accuracy comparison for the landslide inventory with the
BPNN and SVM methods. 其中第一篇乃論述以類神經網路進行結構安全之監測，第二篇乃
針對山坡地滑動之二種分析方法 BPNN 及 SVM 之精度比較，問答迴響熱烈。
其中第二篇論文”An accuracy comparison for the landslide inventory with the BPNN and
SVM methods.”被直接接受選入義大利遙測期刊(Italian Journal of Remote Sensing)，相當難
得。在會場上，與該期刊之編輯交流期刊文章之編輯問題。
大會就海地(HAITI)震災提供救援專題，各學會及公司無不在海地發生地震不久，提供
資訊及圖片，以最快速度提供救災之用，琳瑯滿目，貢獻很大。
附件二
13
出席國際學術會議發表之論文
A High Effective Monitoring design for Structural Deformation
with the Anneal Neural Network
Y. M. Chang a * , C.H.Chen b, and K. T. Chang c
a* Professor, Dept. of Construction Eng., DLIT, cym@dlit.edu.tw
b Assistant Professor, Dept. of Construction Eng., DLIT, chchen@dlit.edu.tw
c Assistant Professor, Dept. of Civil Eng., MhUST, ktchang@must.edu.tw
Abstract
This paper offers an effective method for optimal
monitoring design of structural deformation
measurement with the artificial neural network. The
anneal neural network algorithm for optimal
monitoring design of structural deformation is derived,
constraints and parameters needed are determined,
and a numerical example of 18 measurement spots is
tested. The result shows that the convergent speed is
fast, also the monitoring ability is effective.
1. Introduction
Neural computation and artificial neural
networks have seen an explosion of interest
over the last few years, and are being
successfully applied in many areas, in
problems of prediction, optimization,
classification or pattern recognition.
In the optimization aspect of neural
network, the Hopfield-Tank neural network
(HTN) ﹝1﹞ and the annealed neural
network (ANN) are popularly used.
The Hopfield-Tank neural network has the
advantages of rapid convergence. However, it
usually converges at a local minimum value,
not a global minimum value. Besides, many
parameters must be determined when the
Hopfield-Tank neural network is used to solve
the optimal problems. These parameters can
only be determined by the trial and error
method. Therefore, it often takes much time
to get satisfactory solutions.
Recently, the simulated annealing﹝3﹞
is suggested as a popular technology to solve
the optimal problems. The simulated
annealing is a probabilistic hill-climbing
search algorithm. It combines the steepest
slope method and random process to get the
global minimum value of energy function.
The annealed neural network integrates the
advantages of the simulated annealing and the
Hopfield-Tank neural network algorithm.
Owing to the accurate result and rapid
convergence, it has often been used to solve
the optimal problems.
In this paper, the annealed neural
network is used to solve the optimal
monitoring order of a structural
deformation network.
2. Artificial Neutral Network
The artificial neural network
consists of many artificial neurons.
These artificial neurons simulate the
biological neurons by mathematical
model. Its input-output relationship
can usually be represented by the
function of the weighted status
variables and the threshold values, as
the following equation:
附件三
15
given:
  


x
iyiyxi
xy
xy
i
SSSL )( 1,1, (5)
where Lxy is the path length between the x
and y spot. The value of the function is
minimum at the optimal solution.
In conclusion, if both Equation (3) and
Equation (5) have the minimum value,
meanwhile both Equation (2) and Equation (4)
satisfy their constraints, then the solution
must be optimal.
In order to combine Equation (3) and
Equation (5), the simplest method is to weight
Equation (3) and Equation (5). The weighted
function can be expressed by an energy
function E:
  


x
iyiyxi
xy
xy
ix i
yi
xy
xi SSSL
D
SS
B
E )(
22 1,1,
(6)
where B,D are weight parameters.
The energy difference ΔExi can be
derived by energy function E.
)0()1(  xixixi SESEE (7)
Substituting Equation (6) into Equation (7), A
Exi can be written as:





xy
iyiyxy
xy
yixi SSLDSBE )( 1,1, (8)
(4) Network Variation
Since design variable Sxi is that
probability the x spot be the i th observation
order, it is proportional to Boltzmann
probability function exp(-ΔExi/T) .
Therefore let
 


J
xj
xi
xi
T
E
T
E
S
)exp(
)exp(
(9)
where T is the simulated annealing
temperature.
Equation (9) guarantees to satisfy
Equation (2) and Equation (4).
By annealing the temperature T in the
iteration process, the energy difference ΔE
will converge. When the energy difference
ΔE converges, the permutation matrix that
consists of status variables ^x; may represent
the optimal order of observation.
The above algorithm was presented by Van
Den Bout and Miller﹝4﹞. However it is not
a complete neural network model. To be a
neural network model, the above algorithm is
modified in the following way:
(1) The Derivative of Connecting Weight
The energy function in a neural network
﹝5﹞ can be expressed by Equation (10)
j
j
jjij
i j
i SSWSE   2
1 (10)
where E: the energy function
Si,Sj: the i, j th status variables
Wij : the weight values
θj : the threshold value
Comparing Equation (6) with Equation (10),
we can get the connecting weight value Wxiyi
and the threshold value θ
Wxiyi= -Bδ(i,j)[l - δ(x,y)] - DLxy[δ(j,i +1) +δ (j,i -1)]
θxi=0 (11)
where δ(x,y) = delta function, if x=y,
thenδ(x,y) =1; otherwise, δ(x,y) =0 .
Wxiyi,=-B,if y≠x and j=I,
=-DLxy, if ｜j-i｜=1, (12)
=0, else
The connecting weight matrix W is a 4
dimensional matrix. It is not easy to be solved.
As a matter of convenience, W can be
replaced by a 2 dimensional matrix whose
element is also a 2 dimensional matrix.
(2) The Derivative for Iterative Formula of
Status Variable.
Substituting Equation (10) into Equation
(7), ΔExi can be written as:
xiyjxiyi
y j
xi SWE   (13)
To alter Equation (13) into the form of
general neural network function, let
xiyjxiyi
y j
xi SWnet  (14)
So xixi Enet  (15)
And 
j
xj
Txi
xi Tnet
net
S
)/exp(
)exp( / (16)
17
consists of 18 measurement spots distributed
at possible deformation places.
(1) Configuration Description
The configuration of these 18 measurement
spots is distributed homogenously as shown
in Figure 1. The approximate coordinates of
these monitoring spots are measured with the
digital camera.
Figure 1. A image-based measurement
program
(2) Input Data
The input data are as follows:
A. in order to converge faster, the coordinates
of 18 observation spots are transformed
into the range that from 0 to 1 by Helmert
Transformation.
B. The path length Lxy is computed by
Equation (19).
Lxy=DxyFxy/Bxy (19)
where
Dxy: the distance between x and y spot.
Fxy: the observation efficiency between x and
y spot, it can be divided into three grades. If
it is easy to observe, then Fxy =0.5 ; if it is
fair to observe,then Fxy =1; if it is difficult to
observe, then Fxy =2. In a special case,
if it is not intervisible, then Fxy=99 (Fxy=
∞ theoretically).
Bxy: the observation benefit between x and
y spot, it can be divided into three grades. If
there are many points can be observed by the
spot,then Bxy =2; if there are a few points can
be observed,then Bxy=1;
if there are few points can be observed, then
Bxy =0.5.
if a certain station is pointed to observe next,
then Bxy=99.
C. The initial status Sxi are computed by
Equation (18) in which let n=18, r=0.7890,
w=0.300.
D. The initial temperature T=1.0.
E. The energy function parameters B=1.80,
D=1.0 .
(3) Result and Analysis
Using the ANN process, the result of
optimal deformation measurement order is
shown in Fig. 2.
Figure 2. The result of the optimal
deformation measurement order
An Accuracy Comparison for the Landslide Inventory with the BPNN and SVM
Methods
K. T. Chang a, J. K. Liub, Y. M. Changc, and C. S. Kaod
a
Dept. of Civil Eng. and Environmental Informatics, MUST, TAIWAN.ktchang@must.edu.tw
b
Remote Sensing Lab, ERL, ITRI, Hsin-Chu City 300, TAIWAN. JKLiu@itri.org.tw
c
Dept. of Construction Technology&Science, DLIT, TAIWAN. cym@dlit.edu.tw
d
Institute of Construction Management,MUST , TAIWAN. mayshiuan@gmail.com
KEY WORDS: Landslides, Hazards, SPOT, LIDAR, Neural, SVM
ABSTRACT:
Landslides are natural phenomena for the dynamic balance of earth surface. Due to the frequent occurrences of
typhoons and earthquake activities in Taiwan, mass movements are common threatens to our lives. In this paper, the
interpretation knowledge is quantified into recognition criteria. Multi-source high-resolution data, e.g. a SPOT satellite
image, 5m x 5m DTM reduced from a LIDAR data, road and river vector data, are fused to construct the feature space
for landslides analysis. Then, those features are used to recognize landslides by a Back-Prapogation Neural Network
(BPNN) Method and a Supported Vector Machine (SVM) Method. The extraction results are evaluated in comparison
with the manual-interpretation result. The experiments indicate that the conducted method can assist landslide
investigation efficiently and automatically. Moreover, the ANN method is better than some statistic classification
methods, e.g. Maximum Likelihood method, due to its adaptability for multi-resource data and no predefined
assumption.
Introduction
Motivation
Landslides are natural phenomena for the
dynamic balance of earth surface. The potential
or intrinsic factors of landslide include
geological and morphological factors and the
external or triggering factors include earthquake,
climate, hydrology, and human activities. The
geology is highly fractured and landforms are in
high relief in Taiwan. In addition, the frequent
earthquakes and heavy rainfalls are together
imposing further stress to the earth to break the
balance of the nature. And, thus, mass
movements such as landslides, slumping, and
mudflows take places.
Taiwan has a land area of 36000 m2, 26.68% of
which are covered by plain region, whereas
27.31% of which are hilly and 46.01% are
mountainous. By official definition for the
purpose of land conservation management, hilly
lands refer to the area between 100m and
1000m AMSL or the area under 100m but with
a slope more than 5%. Mountainous lands refer
to the area with an altitude above 1000m AMSL
(Liu et al. 2009).
The complicated landscape of Taiwan is
characterized by small drainage basins, highly
fractured rock, high relief, and steep stream
gradients. Frequent earthquakes due to the
collision of Eurasian Plate and Philippine Sea
Plate further loosen the top surface of the land.
Therefore the lands are particularly sensitive to
episodic events such as typhoons and
earthquakes, and to various types of
anthropogenic disturbance.
In addition, the average annual rainfall of
Taiwan is 250.00 cm which is about three times
of the average annual rainfall on the earth.
Landslides are easily induced by the heavy
rainfall come along with typhoons. The
consequence is the sedimentation of the
reservoirs. And the turbidity of the water in
reservoirs becomes a major factor impacting the
sustainable operation of water supply reservoirs
in Taiwan. Landslides have to be recovered and
automatic control (Robert, 1990; Zurada, 1992).
ANNs have been found to be powerful and
versatile computational tools for organizing and
correlating information in ways that have
proved more useful for solving certain types of
problems too complex, too poorly understood,
or too resource-intensive to tackle than
traditional computational methods. However,
it is a black box for the trained network and the
derived results will easily tend to local extreme
values for the solution (Bischof et al., 1992).
Recently, some variant support vector machine
(SVM) methods, based on statistical learning,
had been used on the land use/cover
classification (Zhu and Blumberg, 2002, Foody
and Mathur, 2004, Camps-Valls and Bruzzone,
2005, Chen, 2006). All of their experimental
results indicated that the derived results using
the SVM method are better than other
discriminant-based classification methods.
MethodologY
Individual landslides are generally small and
located in certain locations of a slope.
Landslides occur in a large variety, depending
on the type of movement such as (slide, topple,
flow, fall, spread), the speed of movement
(mm/year-m/sec), the material involved (rock,
debris, soil), and the triggering mechanism
(earthquake, rainfall, human interaction).
Survey methods usually include ground survey,
aerial or space-borne survey, or a combination.
Ground survey can be high accurate, but slow.
When hazards take places, accessibility is low.
Therefore, it is impossible to make the survey in
near real-time or in a complete coverage after a
torrential rainfall.
Photographic or image interpretation approach
can be adopted and implemented manually,
automatically, or semi-automatically. Manual
interpretation requires well-trained geologist to
delineate the landslides under a stereoscopic
environment. The advantage of this approach is
that individual landslide can be defined very
clearly. However, manual interpretation is too
slow to meet the requirements for emergency
response. Automatic classification of landslides
is based on certain criteria and computing
algorithms. The advantage for image
classification is the objectiveness of the
approach. Most of the recent automatic
classification methods of landslides using
images are based on spectral features other than
topographic features. Therefore, the inventory
results usually can not meet the requirements
for taking engineering measures. A recent
study is to establish a hybrid approach to
combine the advantages of automatic processes
with manual interpretation. A software
interface was designed to assist visual
interpretation of landslides. Both spectral and
spatial parameters are employed for the inputs
of the software to assist the interpreter/operator
to correctly recognize and delineate landslides
(Liu et al., 2009).
Artificial Neural Network method
An Artificial Neural Network (ANN) is a
simulation of the functioning of the human
nervous system that produces the required
response to input (Robert, 1990). ANN is able
to provide some of the human characteristics of
problem-solving ability that are difficult to
simulate using logical, analytical techniques.
One of the advantages of using ANN is that it
doesn’t need a predefined knowledge base.
ANN can learn associative patterns and
approximate the functional relationship between
a set of input and output. A well-trained ANN,
for example, may be able to discern, with a high
degree of consistency, patterns that human
experts would miss. In a neural network, the
fundamental variables are the set of connection
weights. A network is highly interconnected and
consists of many neurons that perform parallel
computations. Each neuron is linked to other
neurons with varying coefficients of
connectivity that represent the weights
(sometime is refereed as strengths in other
literature) of these connections. Learning by the
network is accomplished by adjusting these
weights to produce appropriate output through
training examples fed to the network (Zurada,
1992).
The multilayer perceptron (MLP) is one of the
most widely implemented neural network
topologies. The article by Lippman is probably
one of the best references for the computational
Case study
Test area and experimental materials
A test area located at the Alishan up-stream
basin in central Taiwan had been used. Its area
is about 36 square kilometres. In the study
area, the accumulated rainfall had reached
811mm in 24 hours and 1200 mm in 48 hours
since 9th June 2006. This heavy rainfall event,
so called“6-9torrential rainfal”, induced
enormous amount of debris flows and slides.
LiDAR data and aerial photographs were taken
on 18th June, 20th June and 22nd June of 2006,
respectively. Moreover, a SPOT-5 mosaic
satellite image, shown as figure 1, taken on the
relative time, was also used to test automatic
classification methods. There had been no
records of heavy rainfall events one year prior
to this event. The landslides observed with these
datasets can be solely attributed to this torrential
rainfall event.
Figure 1. SPOT-5 image for the test area
The orthophotos used in this study, shown in
figure 2, are generated by aerial photographs
taken by directly geo-referencing technique and
orthorectified by LiDAR DSM without using
ground control points. Photography and laser
scanning are synchronized. Because airborne
LiDAR is equipped with GPS and IMU, an
event mark is given when photography system
triggers a Transistor-Transistor Logic pulse.
Thus, the instantaneous GPS and IMU
information can be used to resolve the exterior
orientation of the photo frame, i.e. x, y, z, ω, ψ, 
κ. Subsequently, the true-ortho ground surface
model, e.g. LiDAR DSM is used for the
ortho-rectification..
Figure 2. True-ortho aerial photos for the
test area
Leica ALS50 airborne LiDAR system used in
this study is consisted of 2 major parts, i.e. a
laser scanning assembly and a Position and
Orientation System (POS). The former one is
for triggering laser pulses, controlling the range,
the swath, the field of view (FOV), the scan rate
and the pulse rate. These parameters decide how
fast we can make a complete coverage of the
survey area. The second part is critical to the
positioning accuracy.
Figure 3. The DTM generated from the
LiDAR sensor
Point density is an important indicator for the
spatial resolution of LiDAR DEM and DSM.
An understanding of the forest closure and
crown density can be obtained by preliminary
inspection of the point-density distribution of
point clouds (Means et al., 2000; Naesset, 2002).
In this study, the point density is around 4
points/m2. The upper envelope of the point
clouds is interpolated to form a digital surface
model (abbreviated as DSM), whereas the point
clouds that hit the bare ground or that are
filtered to eliminate off-ground points are
interpolated to form a Digital Elevation Model
(abbreviated as DEM). In other words, DEM
denotes the bare ground surface. Sometimes, it
Figure 5. The ROIs of training samples
4.2 Classification results
Using the above mentioned training ROIs, the
classification results for the BPNN, SVM
methods are derived as shown as Figure 7 and 8.
In many test results for the BPNN method, the
best chosen parameters and its corresponding
result are shown as Table 3 and Figure 6,
respectively. However, the default parameters
for the SVM method are used to get the result
(Figure 7). Meanwhile, the result for the
Maximum Likelihood (ML) method, shown as
Figure 8, also implemented for the comparison.
Table 3. The best parameters setup for the
BPNN method
Parameter name Value
Training Threshold
Contribution
0.8
Training Rate 0.8
Training Momentum 0.5
Training RMS Exit Criteria 0.01
Number of Hidden Layers 1
Number of Training
Iterations
20000
Figure 6. The classification result for the
BPNN method
Figure 7. The classification result for the
SVM method
Figure 8. The classification result for the ML
method
4.3 Visual comparisons
For the accuracy assessment of different
classification methods, the result for each
method is overlaid with the ground truth. The
visual comparison result for the ML, BPNN,
and SVM method are shown as Figure 9 - 11,
respectively. The black polygons in the figures
represent landslide areas in the ground truth.
In the overall comparison, the result for the
SVM method is better than the results derived
from other two methods. Moreover, there is
some erroneous judgementfor the “cloud” 
and “aspect surface of woods” classes as shown 
in figure 9. Although decreasing the
eroneous judgement of the “cloud” class in 
figure 10, but increasing the erroneous
judgement of the “building” class.   Due to 
the similarity of colour tone between the
river valley and the landslide areas, it leads
to a different level of confused results for
three methods.
large-scaled landslide. In: Proceedings of
symposium of annual meeting of Chinese
Association of Geographic Information System.
Taichung.
Kojima, H., C. F. Chung, and C. V. Westen, 2000.
Strategy on the Landslide Type Analysis Based on
The Expert Knowledge and the Quantitive
Prediction Model, International Archives of
Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Vol.
XXXIII, Part B7, pp. 701-708, Amsterdam.
Lau, C.C., K.H. Hsiao, C.T. Chen, Y.L. Chung, C.S.
Lin, C.Z. Chiu, T.Y. Shih, J.K. Liu, D.K. Chen,
T.Y. Liao, C.H. Shih, S.C. Weng, S.F. Lo, and L.H.
Pan, 2006. The development of advanced remote
sensing technologies for forestry survey (1/3).
Report of Council Of Agriculture, Database
number: 950023, Project Number: 95-12.1.1-T-a1,
Project ID: 120101a100..
Liang, L. S., 1997. Satellite images as applied to the
investigation of landslides and hot springs. MSc.
Thesis, Institute for Applied Geology, National
Central University.
Liu, J. K., 1985. Remote Sensing for Landslide
Identification and Prediction–cases from Taiwan.
In: Proceedings of Advanced Technology for
Monitoring and Processing Global
Environmental Data, the University of London,
UK and CERMA, USA, pp. 223-232.
Liu, J. K., 1987. Automation for landslide analysis
using digital images, Remote Sensing, Vol. 8, pp.
60-90. (in chinese)
Liu, J. K., 1999. A practical approach to the
installation of a national landslide database on
basis of a SPOT mosaic. Proceedings of the 18th
symposium on survey and mapping. Ilan,
p.561-570.
Liu, J. K., S. J. Wong, J. H. Huang, M. J. Huang,
2001. Images analysis for landslides induced by
torrential rainfall. In: Proceedings of symposium
on civil engineering technology and management
for 21 century. Hsin-chu. P.C-21~C-31.
Liu, J. K., K. T. Chang, J. Y. Rau, W. C. Hsu, Z. Y.
Liao, C. C. Lau, T. Y. Shih, 2009. The
Geomorphometry of Rainfall-Induced Landslides
in Taiwan Obtained by Airborne Lidar and
Digital Photography, Geoscience and Remote
Sensing, In-Teh, Inc. (in press)
Means, J. E., Acker S.A., Fitt B.J., Renslow M.,
Emerson L., Hendrix C.J., 2000. Predicting forest
stand characteristics with airborne scanning lidar.
Photogrammetric Engineering & Remote Sensing,
66(11), pp. 1367- 1371.
McKean, J. and J. Roering, 2004. Objective
landslide detection and surface morphology
mapping using high-resolution airborne laser
altimetry. Geomorphology, 57, pp. 331-351.
McKean, N. F., D. R. Streutker, J. Chadwick, D. J.
Glenn, G. D. Thackray, and S. J. Dorsch, 2005.
Analysis of LiDAR-derived topographic
information for characterizing and differentiating
landslide morphology and activity.
Geomorphology, 73, pp. 131–148. DOI:
10.1016/j.geomorph.2005.07.006.
Naesset, E. 2002. Predicting forest stand
characteristics with airborne scanning laser using
a practical two-stage procedure and field data.
Remote Sensing of Environment, 80(1), pp. 88-99.
Research System, Inc., 2006. ENVI Online Help.
Robert, H. N., 1990. Neurocomputing,
Addison-Wesley Pub. Co., pp. 21-42.
Singhroy, V. and K. Mattar, 2000. SAR Image
Techniques for Mapping Areas of Landslide, In:
International Archives of Photogrammetry and
Remote Sensing, Vol. XXXIII, Part B7, pp.
1395-1398, Amsterdam.
Turner, A.K. and R. L. Schuster, 1996. Landslide
Investigation and Mitigation, In: Transportation
Research Board National Research Council
Special Report 247, National Academy Press,
Washington D. C., U.S.
Westen, C. V., 2000. Remote Sensing for Natural
Disaster Management, International Archives of
Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, Vol.
XXXIII, Part B7, pp. 1609-1617, Amsterdam.
Wu, J. S, J. H. Tsai, J. D. Hu, 1989. Landslide
investigation of the slopelands in Taiwan.
Agriculture Council, Bureau of Soil and Water
Conservation.
Wu, T. F., C. J. Lin, and R. C. Weng, 2004.
Probability estimates for multi-class classification
by pairwise coupling. Journal of Machine
Learning Research, Vol. 5, pp. 975-1005.
Zhu, G. and D. G. Blumberg, 2002. Classification
Using ASTER Data and SVM Algorithms; The
Case Study of Beer Sheva, Israel, Remote Sensing
of Environment, 80(2), pp. 233-240.
Zurada, J. M., 1992. Introduction to Artificial
Neural Systems, West Pub. Co., pp.163-248.
三、與會心得
此次深入歐洲地區亞洲人很少的地方參加研討會，得到相當的重視，不僅大會精心安
排食宿，報告論文得到熱烈的回應，其中一篇論文且被選入義大利國家期刊。尤其能了解
歐洲地區及全球之科技發展情況，可謂收穫良多。
四、攜回資料
1. 論文集 CD(PROCEEDINGS)
2. 會議議程(FINAL PROGRAMME)
3. 廠商資料及與會人士資料
4. ArcGIS Desktop Software
5.ISPRS Profile
Yj: the output value
F: the transfer function
Wij: the weight value
Si: the input status variables
θj: the threshold value
The transportation paths among the
artificial neurons are called "connections".
Every connection has a weight value Wij that
can simulate the synapse strength between the
ith and jth artificial neuron.
In the following sections, the algorithm
of optimal measurement order for structural
deformation will be derived. The input-output
relationship for optimization can also be
represented in the form of general neural
network function as Equation (1).
3. Anneal Network Optimization
Take a structural deformation monitoring
network as an example, it is necessary to
obtain the deformation between different time.
There are many various observation orders
can be chosen for measurement network. The
problem is how to get an optimal monitoring
order?
The task of the optimal monitoring order
is to minimize the total path length. The path
length is determined by observation distance,
observation efficiency and structural
deformation. In the case of short distance,
small deformation, good observation
efficiency, the path length is short. On the
contrary, in the case of long distance, bad
path service, large deformation and bad
observation efficiency, the path length is long.
The steps of optimal monitoring design
of structural deformation network using ANN
are described as follows:
(1) Status variables Sxi
The status variables Sxi, represents the
order of observation. Their value can be given
as follows:
Sxi = 1, if station x is the ith
observation.
0, if station x is not the ith
observation.
The matrix that consisted of Sxi is called
"permutation matrix". In the permutation
matrix, each row represents one station, and
each column represents the order of
observation.
The initial value of status variables Sxi is
a random value. It represents the probability
that the x station is the ith order of observation.
It will be approach to 0 or 1 through the
iteration process. The latest status variables
combine to form the permutation matrix that
represents the order of observation.
(2) Status Requirements
The constraints for a measurement
network observation are:
A. Each spots observed just for once.
B. Only one spot is observed at a time.
C. All spots are observed.
The task of the optimal design is: "To
search an optimal monitoring path that
maximum deformation"
(3) Energy Function
The energy function of the network will
be set up, as follows:
A. To satisfy the constraint "each spot is
observed just for once ", the following
formula is given:
ΣSxi=1.0 (2)
B. To satisfy the constraint" only one spot is
observed at a time", the following function
is given to check:
 
x
yixi
i
ss (3)
If the above function satisfies the
constraint, its value will be zero,
otherwise its value will be greater than
zero.
C. To satisfy the constraint " all s are
observed ", the following formula is given:
ns
x i
xi  (4)
D. To evaluate the task of minimizing the
total path length, the following function is
given:
Equation (14) with Equation (1), the
algorithm of optimal observation order
becomes the general neural network
algorithm. The result of Equation (14) can be
solved with ANN method. And the optimal
observation order denoted as Sxi in Equation
(16) can then be evaluated.
The detail procedures for optimal
observation of structural deformation network
using ANN method is concluded as follows:
A. Set up the energy function parameters B
and D.
B. Input the total path length matrix.
C. Compute weight matrix Wxiyj and the
threshold valueθxi by Equation (11).
D. Input the initial status variable matrix Sxi .
E. Input the initial temperature T.
F. Compute the updated status variable
matrixSxi’ by Equation(16).
G. Compare｜Sxi’-Sxi ｜with the
convergence value ε
If ｜Sxi’-Sxi ｜≧ε , .then decrease
the temperature T by Equation (17).
T=r.T (17)
where r = annealed coefficient, r＜ 1 .
H. LetSxi=Sxi’ , and
iterate from step E,
until ｜Sxi’-Sxi ｜＜ε
I. Output the latest status variable matrix Sxi ,which is
used to represent the optimal observation order.
4. Further Discussion
The energy function parameters B and D,
the initial temperature T, and the initial status
variable matrix Sxi can further be discussed
in the following way:
(1) The energy function parameters B and D
Van den Bout and Miller set D=l, B=the
maximum path length. The reason is that it
can assure to obtain the legal solution.
To find out the proper values of B and D,
hundred times of tests have been evaluated in
this paper. The results show that the lower B
value has more opportunity of reaching the
design task and the case that let B= the
average path length can usually produce the
legal solution. Therefore, it is better that we
use B=the average path length instead of B=
the maximum path length, although it may
take a risk of illegal solution in solving
process. If the illegal solution is obtained, it
can be easily found. All we have to do then is
adjust the parameters B and D again to get the
legal solution.
(2) The Initial Temperature T
The probability of the x station to be the
i th observation order is determined by
Equation (16). The probability of each station
is almost equal at high temperature T. When
the temperature is slowly reducing down, the
probability of a certain station will approach
to 1.
The convergent speed is greatly
influenced by the initial temperature.
If the initial temperature is higher,
then the quality of solution is better,
but the convergent speed is slower.
On the contrary, if the initial
temperature is lower, then the
convergent speed is faster, but the
quality of solution will be worse.
(3) The Initial Status Variables
The initial status variables Sxi are
produced by random process as the following
formula:
Sxi=1/n+w(r-0.5)/n (18)
^where
r: the homogeneous random number between
0 and 1. w: the disturbed coefficient.
5. Numerical Example
In order to show the application of the
concepts presented in the previous sections, a
numerical example is given here. A structural
deformation measurement experiment has
been chosen. This measurement network
consists of 18 measurement spots distributed
degree of structural deformation .The more
top of the order, the more large amount of
the structural deformation. It is consistent
with the practical case.
B. The first order is the first monitoring
spot for structural safety. It is also
consistent with the requirement.
C. It takes about 125 seconds to converge
after a hundred iterations. Consequently it
is rapid to complete the task.
D. When a monitoring order of structural
deformation network is optimal designed,
it needs n! selecting paths with the
traditional algorithms, but it only needs n4
selecting paths with the annealed neural
network algorithm. For an example of 10
stations (n=10), it needs 3628800 selecting
paths with the traditional algorithms, but
only 10000 selecting paths with the neural
network algorithm. Therefore, it can save
much time to solve the optimal problem by
the neural network, especially the more the
number of stations, the more the time is
saved.
6. Conclusion and Suggestion
Neural network is a computer system
that has been applied in many aspects recently.
It can solve many complicate problems
efficiently by using a large amount of simple
connections of artificial neurons to simulate
biological neurons. For the optimization
aspect, two kinds of neural network
algorithms are popularly used: the
Hopfield-Tank neural network (HTN) and the
annealed neural network (ANN). Because the
HTN is limited by only obtaining the local
minimum value and uneasy to determine the
parameters, therefore it is better to use the
ANN for practical application.
In this paper, the annealed neural
network algorithm for optimal monitoring
design of a structural deformation network is
derived. In this optimal monitoring design,
the constrains fitted to the practical
measurement project are determined. The
energy function parameters B and D values,
the initial temperature T value, and the initial
status variables' values are also suggested.
From the numerical example presented in this
paper, the result shows that the achieved
solution is the globally minimum total path
length. Meanwhile it is also able to be
consistent with the practical deformation
cases. Furthermore, it takes much less time
for computation than the conventional
methods. On the whole, the optimal ability of
the neural network is good for structural
safety..
Although the ANN has been proved to
be an efficient method for solving the
structural deformation problem, some
parameters, such as energy function
parameters and initial temperature, will affect
the convergent speed. To find out the most
proper values for these parameters, as well as
the optimal monitoring design for other kind
networks, are worthy for further study.
7. References
[1] Hopfield, T., and Tank, D., 1985. Neural
Computations of Decisions in Optimization
Problems, Biological Cybernetics, Vol.51,
pp. 141-15
[2]Van Den Bout, D.E., and Miller, T.K.,
1988. A Traveling Salesman Objective, The
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Function that
Works, ICNN-88, 2, pp.299-303.
[3] Cichocki, A., and Unbehauen, R., 1993.
Neural Networks for Optimization and
Signal Processing, John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
& B. G. Teubner, Stuttgart, pp.526.
[4] Y.S. Yang and C.L. Wu, 2006. Program
developers: in-house computer code,
National Center for Research on
Earthquake Engineering, Taiwan, v0.51.
their hazards have to be mitigated. The
necessity of landslide survey is obvious.
It has been a common practice to interpret aerial
photographs by visual inspection of an expert
geologist. It is a time consuming task.
Therefore, the purpose of this study is to
implement the human rules and quantifies the
criteria with two automatic classification
methods, e.g. a Back-Propagation Neural
Network (abbreviated as BPNN) and a support
vector machine (abbreviated as SVM) methods,
to verify their accuracy for the rainfall-induced
landslide inventory.
Overview of related works
Landslides cause approximately 1000 deaths a
year worldwide with a property damage of
about US$4 billion, and pose serious threats to
settlements and structures that support
transportation, natural resource management
and tourism. In many cases, over-expanded
development and activities, such as slope
cutting and deforestation, can sometimes
increase the incidence of landslide disasters.
Recent development in large metropolitan areas
intrudes upon unstable terrain. This has thrown
many urban communities into disarray,
providing grim examples of the extreme
disruption caused by ground failures (Singhroy
and Mattar, 2000).
Aerial photography has been used extensively
to characterize landslides and to produce
landslide inventory maps, particularly because
of their stereo viewing capability and high
spatial resolution (Liu, 1985). Aerial photo
interpretation has long been adopted for
landslide inventory. This conventional method
is based on visual perception of colour tone and
geo-morphological features of landslides on the
aerial photographs. However, the
conventional photo-interpretation is a
time-consuming and costly approach (Liu,
1987).
Satellite imagery can also be used to collect
data on the relevant parameters involved such
as soils, geology, slope, geomorphology, land
use, hydrology, rainfall, faults, etc.
Multispectral images are used for the
classification of lithology, vegetation, and land
use, Stereo SPOT imagery is used in
geo-morphological mapping or terrain
classification (Wu et al., 1989; Liang, 1997; Liu,
1999; Hsu et al., 2002). For landslide
inventory mapping the size of the landslide
features in relation to the ground resolution of
the remote sensing data is very important. A
typical landslide of 40000 m2, for example,
corresponds with 20x20 pixels on a SPOT Pan
image and 10*10 pixels on SPOT multi-spectral
images. This would be sufficient to identify a
landslide that has a high contrast, with respect
to its surroundings e.g. bare scarps within
vegetated terrain, but it is insufficient for a
proper analysis of the elements pertaining to the
failure to establish characteristics and type of
landslide (Hsiao et al., 2003). It is expected
that in the future the Very High Resolution
(VHR) imagery, such as from IKONOS-2,
might be used successfully for landslide
inventory (Westen, 2000). By using the criteria
for visual interpretation, artificial intelligent of
expert system and automatic procedures can be
developed to improve the efficiency and
accuracy of landslide mapping (Kojima et al.,
2000; Liu et al., 2001).
In a real case, limitations are due to the spatial
and spectral resolutions of the images. More
than 50% of the rainfall-induced landslides in
Taiwan are less than 50 m in length. Landslides
of this scale are not readily identifiable using
images of a pixel-size larger than 10 m. By
pixel-wise classification, landslides can occupy
only individual or just a few pixels without
forming an outer shape of landslides. Moreover,
commission and omission errors can further
complicate the situation.
The classification for the remote sensing data
had been developed for a long time ago.
Traditional used classification methods, e.g.
Maximum Likelihood method is based on
statistical analysis. It will be limited by a
priori statistical assumption, e.g. probability
distribution, and by the Hughes Effect, denoting
that increasing data bands imposes a need to
increase training samples.
Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) have been
used successfully in many applications such as
pattern recognition, function approximation,
optimization, forecasting, data retrieval, and
capabilities of MLPs. Generally speaking, for
static pattern classification, the MLP with two
hidden layers is a universal pattern classifier. In
other words, the discriminant functions can take
any shape, as required by the input data clusters.
Moreover, when the weights are properly
normalized and the output classes are
normalized to 0/1, the MLP achieves the
performance of the maximum a posteriori
receiver, which is optimal from a classification
point of view. In terms of mapping abilities, the
MLP is believed to be capable of approximating
arbitrary functions. This has been important in
the study of nonlinear dynamics, and other
function mapping problems. The MLPs are
trained with error correction learning, which
means that the desired response for the system
must be known, as well known as
backpropagation algorithm (Zurada, 1992).
The objective of learning is to minimize the
error (RMS in this case) between the predicted
output and the known output.
An MLP type neural network model was
utilized in this work using the Neural Net
function in ENVI 4.3 software (Research
System, Inc., 2006). The Neural Net
technique uses standard back-propagation for
supervised learning. You can select the number
of hidden layers to use and you can choose
between a logistic or hyperbolic activation
function. Learning occurs by adjusting the
weights in the node to minimize the difference
between the output node activation and the
output. The error is back-propagated through
the network and weight adjustment is made
using a recursive method. You can use Neural
Net classification to perform non-linear
classification.
Support Vector Machine (SVM) method
The SVM method is a classification system
derived from statistical learning theory. It
separates the classes with a decision surface that
maximizes the margin between the classes. The
surface is often called the optimal hyper-plane,
and the data points closest to the hyper-plane
are called support vectors. The support vectors
are the critical elements of the training set
(Research System, Inc., 2006; Chen, 2006).
You can adapt SVM to become a nonlinear
classifier through the use of nonlinear kernels.
While SVM is a binary classifier in its simplest
form, it can function as a multiclass classifier
by combining several binary SVM classifiers
(creating a binary classifier for each possible
pair of classes). ENVI's implementation of
SVM uses the pairwise classification strategy
for multiclass classification. SVM classification
output is the decision values of each pixel for
each class, which are used for probability
estimates. The probability values, stored in
ENVI as rule images, represent "true"
probability in the sense that each probability
falls in the range of 0 to 1, and the sum of these
values for each pixel equals 1. ENVI performs
classification by selecting the highest
probability. An optional threshold allows
reporting pixels with all probability values less
than the threshold as unclassified.
SVM includes a penalty parameter that allows a
certain degree of misclassification, which is
particularly important for non-separable
training sets. The penalty parameter controls the
trade-off between allowing training errors and
forcing rigid margins. It creates a soft margin
that permits some misclassifications, such as it
allows some training points on the wrong side
of the hyper-plane. Increasing the value of the
penalty parameter increases the cost of
misclassifying points and forces the creation of
a more accurate model that may not generalize
well.
The ENVI’s SVM classifier provides four types
of kernels: linear, polynomial, radial basis
function (RBF), and sigmoid. The default is the
radial basis function kernel, which works well
in most cases.
Use the Pyramid Levels field to set the number
of hierarchical processing levels to apply during
the SVM training and classification process. If
this value is set to 0, ENVI processes the image
at full resolution only. The default is 0. The
maximum value is dynamic; it varies with the
size of the image you select. The maximum
value is determined by the criteria that the
highest pyramid-level image is larger than 64 x
64. For example, for an image that is 24000 x
24000, the maximum level is 8.
is also known as digital terrain models,
abbreviated as DTM. The accuracy of the DEM
and DSM can be varied due to the change of
land-cover types and density of vegetation. For
assuring the accuracy, ground survey with total
stations was carried out for 347 selected
samples. The RMSE is 0.82m, and mean error
is 0.73m (Table 1). On basis of field observation,
the errors are attributed to the dense low bushes
underneath the tree-canopies. This
over-estimation of DEM is a noteworthy
phenomenon especially for tropical and
sub-tropical forest. In general, for bare ground,
the accuracy is about 0.15m (Liu et al., 2009).
Table 1. Accuracy assessment of the digital elevation models
Locations Sample size
Average
error (m)
RMSE (m)
Standard
Error (m)
Tree base 219 0.70 0.77 0.33
Open
Ground
128 0.79 0.90 0.43
Total 347 0.73 0.82 0.37
The Ground Truth generated by visual
interpretation
The perception of landslides from a bird-eye
view of aerial photographs is also largely
depending on the scale or spatial resolution of
the photographs. Landslides can not be mapped
properly when they are smaller than a minimum
mapping unit. In general, four factors affect the
quality of the mapping results, namely the scale,
the time lag between the landslide event and the
aerial photography, the used film type, and the
overall quality of the photographs. Six criteria
can be used for the recognition of landslides on
aerial photographs, including tone, location,
shape, direction, slope, and shadow effects.
The result of manual air-photo interpretation
shown as Figure 4 can be used as the ground
truth for the following tests.
Figure 4. The ground truth derived by manual
interpretation
Results and analysis
4.1 Creation of the training ROIs
To create training sites for each class, the ROI
tool function was used to define the regions
what we interested. In the preliminary study,
six classes were set as shown as Table 2. The
pixel size and its colour used for each class are
listed in the table. All training ROIs are
shown as Figure 5. Through the training and
classification procedures, the results will be
reclassified into collapse and non-collapse two
classes.
Table 2. Six classes for the selected ROIs of
training samples
Class Code Pixel
size
Colour
Collapse R1 121 Red
Aspect surface
of woods
R2 161 Green
Back-light
surface of woods
R3 186 Blue
Building R4 124 Yellow
Cloud R5 72 Magenta
River R6 114 Sea
Green
Figure 9. The visual comparison result for the
ML method
Figure 10. The visual comparison result for the
BPNN method
Figure 11. The visual comparison result for the
SVM method
It is proved that the morphological features of
rainfall-induced landslides are useful in the
automatic recognition of landslides. However,
they have to be defined in related to local
conditions and the specific events triggering the
landslides (Liu et al., 2009). In the future,
some significant geo-morphological features
will be added to improve the classification
accuracy. And some quantitative assessment
for the classification accuracy will be given.
Conclusions and Suggestions
5.1 Conclusions
1. The procedures for the rainfall-induced
landslide interpretation had been figured out
using automatic classification methods
including BPNN and SVM methods.
Specific parameters are tested and tuned in
this study.
2. The visual comparison results indicate that
SVM method gives a better result than the
ones derived from both BPNN and ML
methods.
5.2 Suggestions
1. In the future, some significant
geo-morphological features will be added to
improve the classification accuracy in this
work.
2. The causes of erroneous judgements,
quantitative assessment for the landslide
inventory should be further confirmed in
the proceeding research.
References
Bischof, H., W. Schneider, and A. J. Pinz, 1992.
Multispectral Classification of Landsat-images
Using Neural Networks, IEEE trans. on
Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 30(3), pp.
482-490.
Camps-Valls G. and L. Bruzzone, 2005.
Kernel-Based Methods for Hyperspectral Image
Classification, IEEE trans. on Geoscience and
Remote Sensing, 43(6), pp. 1351-1362.
Chang, K T and J K Liu, 2004. Landslide features
interpreted by neural network method. In: The
International Archives of the Photogrammetry,
Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences,
Istanbul, Turkey, Vol. XX, Part B7, pp.574-579.
Chen, C. C., 2006. Rice Paddy Identification using
the Support Vector Machine and Plausible Neural
Network, MSc thesis, Dept. of Civil Eng., NCTU,
HsinChu, 109p (in chinese).
Claessens, L., G. B. M. Heuvelink, J. M. Schoorl,
and A. Veldkamp, 2005. DEM resolution effectes
on shallow landslide hazard and soil
redistribution modeling. Earth Surface Processes
and Landforms, 30(4) , pp. 461 - 477.
Foody, G. M. and A. Mathur, 2004. A Relative
Evaluation of Multiclass Image Classification by
Support Vector Machine, IEEE trans. on
Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 42(6), pp.
1335-1343.
Hsiao, K. H., C. Y. , Yin, J. K. , Liu, M. F. , Yu, and
C. L. Wang, 2003. Landslide Identification Using
SPOT Imageries and Aerial Photographs, Journal
of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 8(4), pp.
29-42. (in chinese)
Hsu, L. D., C. C. Chen, J. P. Tsao, S. Chen, 2002.
Multi-annual SPOT images for monitoring
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
Italy Gi4DM 發表的論文有二篇：1. A high effective monitoring design for 
structural  deformation with the anneal neural network. 2. An accuracy 
comparison for the landslide inventory with the BPNN and SVM methods. 
其中第一篇乃論述以類神經網路進行結構安全之監測，第二篇乃針對山坡地滑
動之二種分析方法 BPNN 及 SVM 之精度比較。 
 
其中第二篇論文’ An accuracy comparison for the landslide inventory 
with the BPNN and SVM methods.’被直接接受選入義大利遙測期刊(Italian 
Journal of Remote Sensing)，相當難得。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
