ecological objective, periodically fish sampling and 
habitat survey are used to conduct fish community 
habitat requirement in specific mesohabitat unit in 
water resources management and river restoration 
projects.  The autecology matrix assembles a wide 
range of information available in the scientific 
literature, reports, and local observations.  In the 
second year, the major objective of this research is 
to reconstruct habitat unit compositions by using 
fish community data and autecology matrix.  The 
habitat modeling approach connects fish community to 
the engineering design.  In the third year, the major 
objective of this research is to develop 
environmental flow operating strategy based on 
habitat unit compositions of historical fish 
community. The environmental flow management 
operating strategy provides a fish community based 
habitat requirements. The goal is to use ecological 
information from the fish community to support a 
detailed analysis and better management for 
ecological engineering and river restoration. The 
proposed research provides a novel framework that 
could be consistently used to support river 
restoration work and water resources management. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Fish Autecology Matrix； Fish Community； Fish 
Habitat Composition Model； Artificial Neural 
Network； Environmental Flows； Ecological Flow 
Regimes； Habitat Diversity 
 
 1
目 錄 
 
一、中文摘要  ……………………………………………………………………………  2 
二、英文摘要  ……………………………………………………………………………  3 
三、報告內容  ……………………………………………………………………………  4 
（一）前言  …………………………………………………………………………  4 
（二）研究目的  ……………………………………………………………………  5 
（三）文獻探討  ……………………………………………………………………  5 
（四）研究方法  ……………………………………………………………………  8 
4.1 Field work design of fish sampling and habitat survey  ………………… 10 
4.2 Habitat template classifications  ………………………………………… 11 
4.3 Fish autecology matrix (AM) and weight of evidence approach ………… 13 
4.4 Fuzzy rule based model  ………………………………………………… 16 
4.5 Stepwise regression model  ……………………………………………… 16 
4.6 Artificial neural networks  ………………………………………………  17 
4.7 Non-Dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA-II)  ……………… 18 
（五）結果與討論  ………………………………………………………………… 20 
5.1 Fish habitat unit template and fish autecology matrix development  …… 20 
5.2 Reconstructing habitat unit compositions by using fish community data 
  and autecology  …………………………………………………………… 23 
5.3 Develop environmental flow operating strategy based on habitat unit 
compositions of historical fish community  ……………………………… 30 
（六）結論與建議  ………………………………………………………………… 37 
（七）誌謝  ………………………………………………………………………… 37 
四、參考文獻  …………………………………………………………………………… 38 
五、計畫成果自評  ……………………………………………………………………… 43 
 
 
 3
二、英文摘要 
This three-year project intends to develop a fish community-based habitat model and apply 
it for building instream hydraulic construction and establishing ecological needs objective of 
environmental flow in river restoration projects.  The project also tries to integrate the fish 
autecology information and filed work survey data to develop fish community-base approach for 
ecological water resources management. 
In the first year, the major objective of this research is to develop fish habitat unit template 
and fish autecology matrix for water resources management and river restoration.  In order to 
accomplish the ecological objective, periodically fish sampling and habitat survey are used to 
conduct fish community habitat requirement in specific mesohabitat unit in water resources 
management and river restoration projects.  The autecology matrix assembles a wide range of 
information available in the scientific literature, reports, and local observations.  In the second 
year, the major objective of this research is to reconstruct habitat unit compositions by using fish 
community data and autecology matrix.  The habitat modeling approach connects fish 
community to the engineering design.  In the third year, the major objective of this research is to 
develop environmental flow operating strategy based on habitat unit compositions of historical 
fish community. The environmental flow management operating strategy provides a fish 
community based habitat requirements. The goal is to use ecological information from the fish 
community to support a detailed analysis and better management for ecological engineering and 
river restoration. The proposed research provides a novel framework that could be consistently 
used to support river restoration work and water resources management. 
 
英文關鍵詞：Fish Autecology Matrix; Fish Community; Fish Habitat Composition Model; 
Artificial Neural Network; Environmental Flows; Ecological Flow Regimes; 
Habitat Diversity 
 5
streamflow variability within a water resources management project, it is difficult to precisely 
connect a specific species or community to its flow variability requirements.  One alternate 
approach is to potentially promote aquatic biodiversity by increasing both the spatial and 
temporal habitat diversity of a river system.  In this proposed research, a two dimensional 
numerical model is used to simulate depth and velocity distributions for multiple streamflow 
conditions at a stream section downstream of a reservoir.  Fuzzy concepts are applied to 
modeled pools, riffles, and other habitat units – which are defined by depth and velocity.  Both 
spatial and temporal habitat variation is evaluated to indicate which set of streamflow conditions 
maintains the more diverse habitat objective.  This allows downstream flow-based habitat 
diversity to become an ecological objective of reservoir operation.   
 
（二） 研究目的 
Objectives of this research are: 1) fish habitat unit template and fish autecology matrix 
development; 2) reconstructing habitat unit compositions by using fish community data and 
autecology matrix; and 3) develop environmental flow operating strategy based on habitat unit 
compositions of historical fish community.  In order to accomplish the ecological objective, 
periodically fish sampling and habitat survey are used to conduct fish community habitat 
requirement in specific mesohabitat unit in water resources management and river restoration 
projects.  The goal is to use ecological information from the fish community to support a 
detailed analysis and better management.  The autecology matrix assembles a wide range of 
information available in the scientific literature, reports, and local observations.  The habitat 
modeling approach connects fish community to the engineering design.  The environmental 
flow management operating strategy provides a fish community based habitat requirements.  
The proposed research provides a novel framework that could be consistently used to support 
river restoration work and water resources management.   
 
（三） 文獻探討 
Recent work in river restoration and water resources management typically considers 
referring to the areas that are less disturbed by humans and expands the scale from a reach section 
to the whole watershed.  But this approach faces the problem of insufficient temporal and spatial 
ecological/ biological data for the entire watershed.  Assembling the fragmented data into an 
analysis processes and connecting these data to the hydrological and geomorphological 
environment is a challenging task both for biologists and engineers in river restoration and water 
resources management projects. 
When connecting ecological information to engineering design, fish data are widely used for 
representing river health conditions and fish communities are assumed effectively to reflect 
watershed conditions (Fausch et al., 1990; Karr, 1999).  Fish have become the most widely used 
indicators of watershed condition; the advantages of using fish as indicators are (Attrill et al., 
1997; Fausch et al., 1990; Harris, 1995; Karr, 1981): 1) compared to other aquatic organisms, fish 
life-history information is extensive and readily available; 2) fish are at the top of the aquatic 
food web and represent a variety of trophic levels; 3) researchers require less training because 
fish are relatively large and easily identified; 4) analysis does not require samples be taken back 
to the laboratory for additional analysis, making it relatively easy and economic; 5) most people 
can easily understand fish species and behavior from general fish guides and interpret the results 
for their own purposes; 6) both acute toxicity and stress effects can be evaluated in different age 
 7
biologists typically classify mesohabitats as: backwaters, pools, riffles, glides, runs, chutes, rapids, 
cascades, and falls (Hawkins et al., 1991).  More recently, mesohabitats were classified similarly 
to these units, but from an ecohydraulics perspective as physical biotopes incorporating hydraulic 
biotopes (Padmore, 1998; Wadson and Rowntree, 1998).  Hydraulic biotopes include a 
secondary set of flow type classifications, which include: scarcely perceptible flow, smooth 
boundary turbulent, rippled surface, unbroken standing waves, broken standing waves, upwelling 
chute, and free falling (Newson et al., 1998).  Physical biotopes can be differentiated by 
hydraulic metrics (e.g., shear velocity and Froude number) computed from velocity point 
measurements.  However, a biological validation of patterns of fish use has not been correlated 
with the physical biotopes (Clifford et al., 2006). 
In habitat simulation models, patterns of fish habitat unit use are generally observed among 
pool, riffle, glide, and run classifications (Bain et al., 1988; Aadland, 1993; Rabeni and Jacobson 
1993).  In addition, habitat suitability criteria that relate fish species preferences to point 
measurements of velocity, depth, and substrate are commonly used in physical habitat simulation 
(PHABSIM) models to compute estimates of usable habitat area (Bovee et al., 1998).  This 
preference criterion has been a useful “ecohydraulics” tool correlating the likelihood of fish 
occurrence with local hydraulics.  However, PHABSIM has been criticized for its reliance on 
hydraulic point measurements because studies show fish use of habitat space is dependent on 
many abiotic and biotic factors, bounded and integrated more appropriately at a mesohabitat scale 
(Parasiewicz, 2001; Rashleigh et al., 2005).  An ecohydraulics view of the mesohabitat scale 
would therefore constitute “patches” of hydraulic habitat units with common various flows 
patterns and substrate compositions, more than local summaries of point measurements of 
velocity and depth. 
In order to connect ecological information to engineering designs, hydraulic habitat units 
treated as patches need to be defined by biota use as an expression of species traits and life 
histories as developed in the patch dynamic concept (Poff, 1997; Newson and Newson, 2000).  
Kemp et al. (1999) distinguished mesohabitat units classified by this idea as ‘functional habitats’, 
in which distinct patterns of aquatic biota use were correlated with hydraulic biotopes.  The 
patch dynamics concept constructively supports this functional habitat idea because it recognizes 
the character and dimensions of hydraulic habitat patches change with flow stage and 
morphological complexity, and basic biological needs of biota change accordingly (Townsend et 
al, 1997).  Application of this concept provides a better means to classify ecologically relevant 
mesohabitat units for river restoration assessment and design, in which biota use of such habitats 
are linked to species requirements for survival at various life stages and at multiple flow stages 
(Newson et al., 1998; Schwartz, 2002).  A classification of mesohabitat units that holistically 
integrates geomorphic, hydraulic, and ecological factors is essential for improving the ecological 
performance of river restoration designs (Rabeni and Jacobson, 1993; Chessman et al., 2006). 
When considering ecological information in streamflow management, the management 
community is still struggling to find an objective that properly expresses a stream’s aquatic 
ecosystem needs.  The most commonly used approach is to select a key species and to modify 
management strategies according to the species’ requirements.  Although engineers can find it 
relatively easy to manage streamflow, sometimes the benefit does not extend to the entire aquatic 
ecosystem.  Recently more attention has been shifted to a holistic, regime-based approach to 
streamflow management.  Maintaining a natural hydrologic variation as an ecological objective 
is assumed to be beneficial for aquatic ecosystem (Marchetti and Moyle, 2001; Richter et al., 
 9
Historical fish 
sampling data 
collection
Numerical depth and 
velocity model in regional 
scale distributions
Ecological flow regime 
based on fish community
Fish sampling and 
habitat survey
Best habitat 
compositions
Study area 
information
Ecosystem needs 
objectives
Human needs 
objectives
Non-dominated sorting 
genetic algorithm
Trade-off between water shortage 
and the natural flow regime based 
on fish community
 1st Year 2nd Year
3rd Year
Fish dataHabitat survey data
Reach scale 
transformation
Fish presence and 
absence data
Habitat 
identification
Habitat 
regression model
Fish autecology 
matrix analysis
Habitat artificial 
neural network model
Model validation by 
historical data
Fish sampling and 
habitat survey
Fish dataHabitat survey data
Fish autecology 
matrix development 
Habitat template 
development 
Fish literature 
review
Fuzzy rule based 
model  for habitat 
classification 
Quantify 
environmental factors 
Fish sampling and 
habitat survey
Fish data
Habitat 
survey data
Model validation by 
field data
Determine the 
available potential 
habitat areas
 
Figure 4.1  Research framework 
 11
their most natural environment, and the physical environmental conditions of each location can 
be effectively measured and connected to habitat unit simulation models.  The basic sampling 
procedure is as follows: 
1. Within a sampling reach, a stratified random method is used to select five to six areas covering 
different velocities and depths.  Moving from downstream to upstream, a pair of 1-meter 
electrodes is placed in each of these locations.  Each pair of electrodes forms a 1-by-1-meter 
grid; in this study, the electric grid area is referred to as the habitat unit. 
2. After waiting at least 11 minutes to allow fish to reposition themselves within their preferred 
locations (Bain et al., 1985), the electrodes are activated for 60 seconds from a bankside power 
source.  Netters enter the stream to capture immobilized fish in the grid area. 
3. Captured fish are identified to species, measured, and weighed before being immediately 
released to the stream. 
4. For each grid area, the velocity and depth are measured at the center and of the grid and at each 
of the four corners to provide the average velocity and depth.  The composition of substrate is 
recorded as percentages of type.  Additional measurements taken at each location include 
water temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, pH, conductivity, and turbidity. 
With PAEDs, fish will be sampled at habitat units among different mesohabitat unit types.  
A PAED includes an electrode pair placed in the stream with wires extending to the bank area that 
are connected to a 2.0-kW power source.  PAEDs will be placed in units so that the fish 
immobilization range covered the delineated unit volume.  Schwartz and Herricks (2004) 
describe in detail protocols for placing electrode pairs with different rod lengths in order to 
sample unit volumes varying in shape.  Data on PAED placement will be recorded for each 
sample and used to compute the sample area and volume.  Data included electrode lengths, 
orientation (parallel or series) and distance between electrodes, and voltage output.   
Per day, 5 to 6 electrode pairs will be placed in the study reach far enough apart so that 
collection activity would not disturb an adjacent mesohabitat unit not yet sampled, typically a 
distance equivalent to 6-10 mesohabitat units.  After placement of PAEDs, mesohabitat units 
will be sampled starting downstream and working upstream ensuing electrodes are left 
undisturbed several hours prior to activation.  Once electrodes are activated, three to four netters 
entered the stream to capture immobilized fish from the mesohabitat unit.  Collected fish will be 
measured for standard length to the nearest mm, and weighed with a scale.  Fish will be released 
to their captured location. 
4.2 Habitat template classifications  
An ecohydraulic-based classification scheme for habitat unit template has been developed 
based on current conceptual understandings of channel hydraulics, geomorphic maintenance 
processes of bed morphology, and biological resource needs of fish species.  Previously 
developed habitat template classification schemes and descriptions of flow types for 
physical-hydraulic biotopes will be used as a foundation in this research (Bain and Stevenson, 
1999; Padmore, 1998).  Existing habitat template classifications use point measurements of 
downstream-orientated velocities, water depth, and bed substrate to distinguish habitat units 
(Figure 4.3).   
Ecologically, development of the classification scheme incorporated the functional habitat 
idea, identifying the need to link flow types, physical habitat characteristics, and species 
requirements (Newson et al., 1998).  After typhoon high flow, fish habitat use dominantly 
relates to feeding position (Angermeier, 1982; Schlosser, 1987; Bain et al., 1988).  In support 
 13
Depositional units include glide, simple and complex riffles, submerged point bar, and 
channel expansion marginal deadwater.  The glide, simple riffle, and complex riffle are full 
channel units that represent a topographic high on the streambed, whereas the submerged point 
bar and ‘channel expansion marginal deadwater’ constitute lateral channel units.  Glides have 
uniform, moderately shallow water depths lacking a definite thalweg and any flow obstructions 
(Bain and Stevenson, 1999).  Simple riffles have uneven cross sections due to lateral deposition 
of sediment with a channel thalweg occurring on the opposite side of the channel.  They are 
short units equal to 1 to 2 channel unit widths with moderately shallow water depths.  In contrast, 
complex riffles are distinct channel units with lengths in the order of 5 to 10 times the channel 
width and topographically higher than glides or simple riffles.  During low-flow a sinuous 
thalweg occurs through complex riffles, where non-wetted, exposed lateral gravel bars are 
sometimes vegetated with grass.  Water depths are very shallow expect for an occasional small, 
deep pocket of water within the thalweg, and small surface waves appear.  Submerged point bars 
consist of lateral sediment deposits along the inner bank of meanders or alternative bars in 
straight channels (Knighton, 1998).  The ‘channel expansion marginal deadwater’ unit occurs in 
channel locations behind bank failures, and areas where the channel abruptly expands orientated 
in the direction of flow.  Rapid channel expansions commonly occur at floodplain sloughs and 
concave-bank bench locations (Howard, 1992; Schwartz and Herricks, 2005).  As inferred by its 
name, a deadwater occurs in the lee of the structure, and the unit generally lies laterally adjacent 
to a scour pool formed by the obstruction. 
4.3 Fish autecology matrix (AM) and weight of evidence approach 
Autecology matrix was first proposed by Herricks (1977) for the Illinois water quality 
management system.  A Taiwan fish autecology matrix will be developed to describe the 
interrelationship of Taiwan fish species and published or measured environmental or ecological 
associations (Suen, 2005; Suen and Herricks 2006).  The matrix can used at least two primary 
ways.  First, it is possible to identify specific environmental requirements or ecological 
associations for each fish species.  Second, it is possible to assess a fish community relationship 
to a single environmental or ecological factor.  In its present form the AM divides approximately 
250 factors into five major groups: habitat requirements, spawning issues, ecological issues, 
water quality, and human values.  It considers abiotic, largely physical habitat, biotic, largely 
known ecology and life history, and human, largely water quality tolerance, species status, or 
other management focused factors.  Figure 4.4 shows the basic framework of the fish autecology 
matrix. 
 
  
 15
Table 4.1 provides an example of a matrix (A) with n species ╳ m environmental factors.  In 
the matrix, if the jiA equals 1, the environmental factor can be applied to this species; if the jiA  
equals 0, it indicates that the factor cannot be applied.  jiA  can also be a blank cell which 
indicates that this information is unknown now and requires further research or analysis.   
 
Table 4.1  The fish autecology matrix (A) with n species ╳ m environmental factors 
  Environmental factor E 
  mi EEEEEE 4321  
Fi
sh
 sp
ec
ie
s F
 
n
j
F
F
F
F
F


3
2
1
 














nmninnnn
jmjijjjj
mi
mi
mi
AAAAAA
AAAAAA
AA
AA
AA







4321
4321
33
22
11
010
100
1101
 
 
A “Weight-of- Evidence Approach” is recommended for community analysis (Suen and 
Herricks, 2006; 孫建平等, 2006).  This weight-of-evidence approach recognizes that it is 
unlikely that all species present at the site find all environmental characteristics of the site 
optimal.  A simple calculation of the percent of species associated with a factor provides an 
indication of community autecology.  The computation could be accomplished by the data 
processor according to the following algorithm:  
Sn
ASR                                                           (4.1) 
where  
S : fish community (sampling results) data matrix, ]   [ 321 nj SSSSSS   
A : fish autecology matrix 
Sn : total species number of the fish community (sampling results) data S 
R : environmental requirement matrix for fish community S, ]   [ 321 mi RRRRRR   
Each value (R i) in the environmental requirement matrix R represents the percentage of the 
fish species in the sampling community S having the feature described by the environmental 
factor Ei.   
In a community analysis we use a weight-of-evidence approach.  This approach recognizes 
that each species will have specific requirements that may vary with age.  In addition, mobile 
organisms can select a variety of habitats over even short time intervals so it is difficult to specify 
habitat and ecological needs exactly.  What is possible is to represent a range of habitat needs 
and ecological characteristics by providing a summary for all species in a community.  Use of 
the autecology matrix allows determination of the percentage of species in a community with a 
habitat preference or the percentage of species with similar ecological or life history requirements.  
The determined percentages are used to provide a weight-of-evidence.  Since these percentages 
are determined from community samples or developed from species desired at a location, it is 
possible to parameterize indicators and develop targets for management. 
 17
model with high (the most parsimonious model with the highest percentage accounted for). The 
stepwise regression can be started from a null or a full model and can go forward or backward, 
respectively. At any step in the procedure, the statistically most important variable will be the one 
that produces the greatest change in the log-likelihood relative to a model lacking the variable. 
This would be the variable which would result in the largest likelihood ratio statistics, G. (A high 
percentage accounted for gives an indication that the model fits well. See also multiple regression 
correlation coefficients). 
4.6 Artificial neural networks 
Natural neural networks (the brains of animals) learn from experience and can perform 
difficult operations and recognize complex patterns, even if those patterns are noisy (張斐章與張
麗秋, 2005).  The ANN research of recent years has attempted to mimic these networks to attain 
the advantages of their flexible and powerful calculating abilities.  Although the concept of 
artificial neurons was first introduced by McCulloch and Pitts (1943), the major applications of 
ANNs have arisen only since the development of the back-propagation method of training by 
Rumelhart et al. (1986).  ANN research following this development has resulted in successful 
solution of some complicated problems not easily solved by traditional modeling methods.  Two 
of the most common ANNs, viz., back-propagation neural networks (BPNN) and radial basis 
function neural networks (RBFNN), are compared in this study. 
Both neural networks are feed-forward, consisting of input, hidden, and output layers.  
Figure 4.5 shows the basic structure of such a network.  The two types of ANNs differ in how 
the weights are set.  The BPNN uses supervised learning in which prediction errors are used in 
training via a feedback algorithm.  The RBFNN is said to be quasi-unsupervised in that part of 
the training involves a similar feedback algorithm, and part is based on the clustering of data, 
which is a once-through approach that involves no feedback adjustment of parameters.  BPNN 
uses a gradient-descent-error-minimization method to modify the weights; RBFNN uses a fuzzy 
min-max network to cluster input information and a multivariate regression method to connect 
output information to the clustered input information. 
 
．
．
．
Input layer Output layerHidden layer
．
．
Inputs
Output
 
Figure 4.5  ANNs structure 
 
Back-propagation neural networks (BPNN) 
The number of input and output nodes in the BPNN is determined by the nature of the actual 
input and output variables.  The number of hidden nodes, however, depends on the complexity 
mathematical nature of the problem, is determined by modeler, often by trial-and-error.  Each 
 19
approach is presented with a selection operator that creates a mating pool by combining the 
parent and offspring populations and selecting the solutions with the best fitness.  The next 
generation is selected starting from the best non-dominated front, progressing through the rest of 
the solutions until the desired population size is reached.  If in the final stage there are more 
solutions in the non-dominated front than available spots, the crowding distance strategy is used 
to choose which solutions of that front are entered into the next population to represent greater 
diversity in that front.  The elitist approach always keeps the better solutions for the next 
generation (Deb et al., 2002). 
 
Encodingi
Generate the init. 
population
r t  t  i it. 
l ti
Compute the 
fitness of each 
individual in the 
population
t  t  
fit  f  
i ivi l i  t  
l ti Produce the new 
population by the 
three operators
-- selection, 
crossover and 
mutation --
r  t   
l ti   t  
t r  r t r
-- s l ti , 
r r  
t ti  --
Replace the old 
population by the 
new population  
l  t  l  
l ti  y t  
 l ti   
Keep the best 
solutions by the 
elitist policy
 t  t 
l ti   t  
litist li y
Converge?r
YES
NO
End  
Figure 4.6  NSGA II procedure 
 
 21
 
Figure 5.2  The historical fish species numbers of the major rivers collected for this research 
 
The fish habitat unit template is the consideration of the overall environmental requirements 
for a single fish species or entire fish community in the rivers.  The fish autecology matrix 
provides a good analysis tool for understanding the fish habitat environmental requirements 
(Suen and Herricks, 2006).  Although the fish autecology matrix has been developed for several 
years, there still exists a communication gap between the ecologists and engineers.  The main 
purpose of fish autecology matrix is to show the fish habitat required environmental information 
by a weight of evidence approach to a specific fish species or a fish community.  It simply 
transfers the ecological description from ecologists to 0 and 1 for analysis by engineers.    
Based on the initial autecology matrix structure (Figure 4.4), additional factors have been 
selected to address issues such as integrity, information availability, analysis needs, as well as 
common habitat characterizations.  After the integration and reorganization, the final matrix had 
approximately 230 items for approximately 100 and more freshwater and estuary fish species.  
More than ten data resources are considered for combing the final matrix.  Current matrix just 
used equal weight for all the different data resources.  If we know some of the data resources are 
more reliable than others, we can put higher weights on these resources.  Although current 
matrix still lacks lots of information for some fish species, this is what we can get from the 
available resources in Taiwan.  The current matrix is going to be used for fish autecology matrix 
analysis in the following study. 
Habitats are typically distinguished based on field observation, and habitat types are defined 
by descriptive methods. But judgment enters those methods, and differing judgment may cause 
bias.  Wang (2000) has quantitatively set depth and velocity criteria to distinguish pools, riffles, 
and runs for mid- to upper- order streams in Taiwan.  Although the crisp definitions of depth and 
velocity criteria are easy for engineers to apply in their engineering designs, two values near the 
boundary condition (one slightly greater than and another slightly less than the boundary value) 
might be assigned to different mesohabitat types despite being close in value.  The use of a 
traditional dichotomy or trichotomy to classify velocity and depth for mesohabitat delineation 
 23
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Velocity (m/sec)
D
eg
re
e 
of
 M
em
be
rs
hi
p slow medium fast
 
Figure 5.4  Input membership functions of velocity 
 
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Habitat
D
eg
re
e 
of
 M
em
be
rs
hi
p DP DR SR SP
 
Figure 5.5  Output membership functions of mesohabitat type. DP: Deep pool; DR: Deep riffle; 
SR: Shallow riffle; SP: Shallow pool 
 
Table 5.1  Fuzzy rules used in this research 
Velocity 
Meso-Habitat units
Slow Medium Fast 
High DP DP DR 
Medium SP ALL DR Depth 
Low SP SR SR 
 
5.2 Reconstructing habitat unit compositions by using fish community data and autecology 
matrix 
Fishies data from electrofishing surveys and physical environmental factors from 
mesohabitat surveys are simultaneously collected for each mesohabitat grid.  The fish 
community data are then analyzed using an autecology matrix; the percentages of several 
environmental factors from the autecology matrix analysis become independent variables in the 
regression model.  At the same time, the surveyed velocity and depth data are used with a fuzzy 
rule-based model to identify the mesohabitat type of each grid.  The percentages of each 
mesohabitat type in each grid are used as dependent variables in the regression model.  Finally, 
simulated mesohabitat regression models are developed to connect the field work measurements 
to the fish autecology matrix analysis.  This process provides a regression model procedure that 
can be used by engineers to analyze historical fish data and develop reference conditions for the 
design of ecologically relevant instream structures.  Figure 5.6 shows the framework of 
 25
Although the twelve environmental factors are assumed to be correlated to mesohabitat type, 
some of the factors may provide similar information in the mesohabitat simulation models.  The 
stepwise multiple regression selection procedure is used in parameter selection to reduce the 
redundancy of environmental factors. 
Fish were sampled at 201 mesohabitat sampling units within the eight major sampling 
locations from 2007 to 2009 using the PAED technique.  A total of 2,133 individuals were 
obtained, including seven genera and 21 species.  The dominant species were Formosan river 
loach Hemimyzon formosanum (Boulenger), Pulin river loach Sinogastromyzon puliensis Liang, 
two species of gobies, Rhinogobius giurinus Aonuma & Chen and Rhinogobius rubromaculatus 
Lee & Chang, and deep-body shovelnose minnow Varicorhinus alticorpus (Oshima).  The 
average velocity at these 201 mesohabitat sampling units varied from 0.01 to 1.61 m/s, and the 
average depth varied from 3 to 150 cm. 
The surveyed depth and velocity data of the 201 electric grid units were analyzed by the 
fuzzy rule-based model to identify mesohabitat types. The results are shown in Table 5.2.  
Shallow riffle (SR) is the most abundant mesohabitat type, and the number of riffles is greater 
than the number of pools.  This is probably because the study locations are within mid- to upper- 
order streams where riffle habitats and shallower water are more abundant than in low-order 
reaches.  The mesohabitat type results of the fuzzy rule-based model echo those of the field 
observations, but the fuzzy model classification procedure provides a quantitative way to define 
fish mesohabitat types.  It provides a clear, measurable procedure that is easier for engineers to 
apply. 
 
Table 5.2  Mesohabitat types of 201 sampling units 
Mesohabitat type Number 
Deep pool  52 
Deep riffle  42 
Shallow riffle 70 
Shallow pool 37 
 
Table 5.3 shows the summary of mesohabitat simulation models developed by the stepwise 
multiple regression selection procedure.  The final sets of environmental factors differ for each 
mesohabitat model.  It is notable that, because the percentage of simulated mesohabitat types 
should be larger than zero, all mesohabitat models are restricted using the maximum operator.  
The percentages of each mesohabitat type are positive numbers which, for the four simulated 
mesohabitat types, may not sum to one, but which can still represent a relative comparison.  
Table 5.4 shows the comparison of using presence and absence data and abundance data for 
developing mesohabitat simulation models.  Using abundance data to develop regression models 
shows higher correlation than using presence and absence data, but the validation results may get 
worse because of the unknown antecedent environmental conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 27
shallow riffle percentage is the highest, indicating the predominance of shallow riffle areas.  It is 
consistent with the results of simulated average depth and velocity.  Fang et al. (1996) did not 
record the composition of mesohabitat types or the average depth and velocity, but the description 
of high velocity with cobble and boulder substrate agrees with the simulated results of high 
velocity with large portions of shallow riffle mesohabitat.  Engineers can use this type of output 
for ecologically-oriented design of instream habitat structures based on the simulated mesohabitat 
composition. 
If historical fish data are not available at a study area, a target or ideal fish community also 
can be used with the models to produce the simulated mesohabitat conditions.  Four groups are 
used to demonstrate the simulated mesohabitat conditions for engineering design consideration.  
These groups are based on Wang (2002) and the Taiwan Fishdata Base (2005).  They include 
endemic or conserved species (six species), generalist or common species (five species), 
mild-pollution tolerant species (nine species), and heavy-pollution tolerant species (nine species).  
Table 5.5 shows the model simulation results for these four groups.  Comparing the mesohabitat 
unit composition for endemic or conserved species and generalist or common species, the group 
of endemic or conserved species prefers riffle areas, especially shallow riffles.  However, the 
mesohabitat unit compositions for the group of generalist or common species show the highest 
preference for deep pools.  There is little difference in average depth preferences, but the group 
of endemic or conserved species prefers higher velocities than the group of generalist or common 
species.  Comparing pollution tolerance, the group of mild-pollution tolerant species prefers 
more riffles and higher velocities than the group of heavy-pollution tolerant species.  
 
Table 5.5  Simulated mesohabitat conditions of four fish communities 
Environmental factor 
Endemic or 
conserved 
species 
Generalist or 
common 
species 
Mild- 
pollution 
tolerant 
species 
Heavy- 
pollution 
tolerant 
species 
Species number 6 5 9 9 
Deep pool %  11.05 35.18 17.40 30.10 
Deep riffle % 14.83 0.00 9.66 9.49 
Shallow riffle % 64.48 55.08 57.77 44.33 
Shallow pool % 6.12 9.92 8.83 14.27 
Average depth (cm) 35.51 38.11 34.13 36.97 
Average velocity (m/s) 0.719 0.693 0.592 0.421 
 
Most species sampled in riffle areas (e.g. H. formosanum) prefer only riffle type 
mesohabitats, but some species sampled in pool areas (e.g. freshwater minnow Zacco 
pachycephalus (Günther) and R. giurinus) are habitat generalists which can also be caught in 
riffle type areas (Yu & Lee, 2005).  This may cause the correlation R value of the two pool 
mesohabitat unit models to be relatively low and the correlation R values of the two riffle 
mesohabitat unit models to be high.  Improved sampling efficiency in deep pool areas and 
increased collection of guild species that use deep pool mesohabitats (e.g. sharpbelly Hemiculter 
leucisculus (Basilewsky)) may increase the correlation R value of the deep pool mesohabitat unit 
model. 
While developing the regression models, autecology matrix analysis uses fish presence and 
 29
environmental requirements (i.e., detailed fish autecology matrix information) is needed.  
Engineers working on management of water resources can use this multidisciplinary information 
to broaden their approach, changing the focus from public health and economic development to 
the incorporation of ecologically- friendly designs that contribute to the ecological integrity and 
diversity of rivers. 
In developing the ANN model for estimating habitat composition, the data set is divided into 
two subsets: a training set and a verification set.  Figure 5.7 shows the basic structure of ANNs 
model.  The preferred habitat (deep pool, shallow pool, deep riffle, and shallow riffle), substrate 
types (silt/sand, gravel, cobble, and boulder), and velocity (none, slow, medium, and fast) are the 
inputs and the percentages of each mesohabitat type is the output.  
 
1
j
2
k
Percentages 
of each 
habitat type
Input layer
12 nodes
Output layer
1 node
Hidden layer
k nodes
Preferred habitat
(Deep pool, Shallow pool, 
Deep riffle, Shallow riffle
Substrate
(Silt/sand, Gravel, 
Cobble, Boulder)
Velocity
(None, Slow, 
Medium, Fast)  
Figure 5.7  The basic structure of habitat artificial neural networks model 
 
Table 5.6 shows the summary of habitat composition simulation models developed by the 
ANNs.  The percentages of the 4 simulated habitat types may not sum to one, but the 
percentages can still represent a relative comparison for engineering consideration.  Most 
species sampled in riffle areas (e.g. Sinogastromyzon puliensis) only prefer riffle type habitats, 
but some species sampled in pool areas (e.g. Zacco pachycephalus and Rhinogobius giurinus) are 
habitat generalists which can also be caught in riffle type areas (Yu and Lee, 2005).  This may 
cause the validation’s r2 value of the deep pool habitat unit model to be relatively low (0.508) and 
the validation’s r2 values of the two riffle habitat unit models to be relatively high (0.947 and 
0.653).  Improved sampling efficiency in deep pool areas and increased collection of guild 
species that use deep pool habitats (e.g. Hemiculter leucisculus) may increase the r2 value of the 
deep pool habitat unit model. 
 
Table 5.6  ANNs model results  
 Training events  Validation events  
 RMSE RMSE_P r2 RMSE RMSE_P r2 
Deep pool 0.0273 17.433 0.807 0.0370 24.657 0.508 
Deep riffle 0.0208 4.599 0.944 0.0540 11.999 0.947 
Shallow pool 0.0279 16.107 0.920 0.0748 39.382 0.543 
Shallow riffle 0.0317 14.850 0.866 0.0598 27.172 0.653 
 
 31
agricultural, and power generation water use.   
 
Shallow 
Pool
Median 
Pool
Deep 
Pool
Run
Fast 
Riffle
Slow 
Riffle
V3
V2
V1
D1
D2
D3
 
Figure 5.9  Fuzzy membership functions for habitat types.  D1╳V1: Shallow pool; D2╳V1: 
Median pool; D3╳V1: Deep pool; D1╳V2: Slow riffle; D1╳V3: Fast riffle; D2╳V3: Run; Others: 
Non habitat 
 
The potentially usable habitats (PUHs) is one of the most critical factors that affect 
organisms living in streams.  Although it is difficult to judge the best constitution of habitat 
types in streams, it is reasonable to assume that organisms will benefit most from larger HDI 
values and more PUHs.  In order to know the PUHs variation under different streamflow 
conditions, the two- dimensional numerical model (ARMB-2D) is used to simulate the depth and 
velocity distribution in the research area.  For each streamflow condition, the 270,078 mesh 
areas take approximately 80 to 90 hours to approach convergence, and the depth and velocity of 
each inundated mesh area are estimated.  By using the fuzzified definitions of six PUHs (Figure 
5.9), each habitat type can be identified.  Figure 5.10 shows the examples of mesohabitat 
distributions at study area when streamflows are at 10 cms and 40 cms.  When streamflow is at 
10 cms, velocities at lots of grids are not too high, they could be identified to pool types (shallow, 
median, or deep pools.  When streamflow is at 40 cms, either velocities get too high or depth get 
too deep at lots of grids, they would be identified to non habitat type.  Figure 5.11 shows the 
mesh areas of six habitat types and the percentage of each habitat type with respect to the 
inundated mesh areas under different streamflow conditions.   Figure 5.12(a) shows the habitat 
diversity index under different streamflow conditions and Figure 5.12(b) shows the total habitat 
mesh areas and percentage of total habitat mesh areas with respect to the inundated mesh areas 
under different streamflow conditions.  
 33
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Streamflow (cms)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
M
es
h 
ar
ea
s
Shallow Pool
Median Pool
Deep Pool
Slow Riffle
Fast Riffle
Run
     
(a) 
 
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
Streamflow (cms)
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
PU
H
s 
Po
rt
io
ns
Shallow Pool
Median Pool
Deep Pool
Slow Riffle
Fast Riffle
Run
 
(b) 
 
Figure 5.11  (a) The mesh areas of six habitat types.  (b) The percentage of each habitat type to 
the inundated mesh areas 
 
 35
The ecosystem needs objective is considering following aspects: (1) Providing more PUHs: 
In the low flow condition, only the thalweg contains water and most of the channel areas are dry, 
but in the high flow condition, high velocity or deep water are not suitable for organisms as 
habitat.  In a year round under the reservoir operation condition, maximizing the average daily 
PUHs would be the first objective for the ecosystem needs.  (2) Maintaining high HDI: One of 
the most critical flaws of minimum flow approach in a reservoir operation problem is the constant 
flow can only provide the same habitat type of distribution most of the time.  If one or few 
habitat types are dominant in the most channel sections, it may affect some organisms’ population 
in the rivers.  In a year round under the reservoir operation condition, maximizing the average 
daily HDI would be the first objective for the ecosystem needs.  (3) Reducing frequency of any 
habitat type lower than certain level: We assume it is important to maintain certain amount areas 
for each habitat type for supporting some organisms living in the rivers.  When a habitat type is 
too low, it may affect their population in the long run.  The objective is to reduce total days of a 
year that a habitat type is lower than certain level.  (4) Reducing duration of any habitat type 
lower than certain level: It is believed that it would be much worse if any type of habitat areas 
lower than certain level for a long period.  Changing flow condition could possibly avoid it 
happens.  The objective is to reduce the average duration of a year that a habitat type is lower 
than certain level.  (5) Providing similar habitat composition as the historical fish community 
need: We can use the model we developed in the second year and historical fish community to 
know the historical habitat composition in the study area.  The objective is to provide similar 
compositions when operating the reservoir.  
An NSGA-II algorithm with a population size of 1000 is used to solve the multiobjective 
reservoir operation problem.  The mutation rate is equal to 0.05 and the crossover rate is equal 
to 0.80.  The improvement of non-dominated solutions gradually slows down after 180 
generations.  The optimal solution set is stopped after 250 generations and the Pareto front with 
66 solutions (Figure 5.13) depicts the two objective functions, ecosystem needs and human needs, 
as well distributed along the Pareto front.  The solutions near point A represent the 36 effective 
reservoir storages at the end of each ten-day period that can offer flow regimes close to ecological 
flow regimes (Case A).  The solutions near point B represent the 36 effective reservoir storages 
at the end of each ten-day period that can reduce the number of water shortages and provide more 
water for power generation (Case B).  Point A has the highest ecosystem needs objective fitness, 
point B has the highest ecosystem needs objective fitness. 
  The lower line (Case A) corresponds to the reservoir operations according to the effective 
storage curve of point A on the Pareto front.  It represents the total water shortage if the effective 
storage curve that is more beneficial to ecosystem needs is applied.  Under this operational 
curve, 80% of the historical hydrological scenarios have a total water shortage less than 253.8 
million cubic meters per year.  The upper line (Case B) corresponds to the reservoir operations 
according to the effective storage curve of point B on the Pareto front.  It represents the total 
water shortage if the effective storage curve that is more beneficial to human needs is applied.  
Under this operational curve, 80% of the historical hydrological scenarios have a total water 
shortage less than 291.3 million cubic meters per year.  There is approximately 37.5 million 
cubic meter difference between the two extreme cases for an 80% reliability level. 
The upper line (Case B) provides better environmental conditions, which represents on the 
habitat compositions in the downstream area.  Higher habitat diversity and more available 
habitat based on historical fish community information.  Although it cannot be possible for 
proven by the experimental operation, we still assume this would be much better for the 
 37
（六） 結論與建議 
This research develops a physical habitat simulation model by using historical fish data for 
river restoration and ecological engineering in mid- to upper-order streams in Taiwan.  The 
simulated composition of four types of habitat units (deep pool, shallow pool, deep riffle, and 
shallow riffle) of a designed streamflow condition could guide the design of instream structures 
in creating pool-riffle systems with ecological reference.  Although the compositions of habitat 
types in rivers may vary with streamflow variation, and the maintenance of instream structures 
for habitat composition is difficult, the habitat simulation model demonstrates how the design of 
an instream engineering structure can be guided by fish community information. 
This research also develops a novel idea to develop ecosystem objectives for ecological 
water resources management.  It is a regime-based approach, but the focus is transferred from 
streamflow to habitat since diverse and abundant habitat types are assumed to benefit to aquatic 
communities.  This research could provide reservoir managers with a tool to minimize human 
water use deficits while also maintaining a diverse ecological habitat environment.   
Ecological water resources management strategy is one of the most concerned water 
resources and environment issues in Taiwan.  The results could provide Taiwan government 
agencies for developing ecological designs and establishing water resources policies in 
engineering practices which can reduce the ecological impacts on river environment caused by 
economic development. 
 
 
 
 
（七） 誌謝 
本研究感謝成大水利系蔡長泰教授研究團隊及陳金諾博士、蔡智恆博士於 ARMB-2D 
model 的建立及格點水深流速的提供，使本研究能順利完成。 
 39
de Jalón, D. G., M. Mayo, and M. C. Molles. 1996. Characterization of Spanish Pyrenean stream 
habitat: Relationships between fish communities and their habitat. Regulated 
Rivers-Research & Management 12(2-3): 305-316 
Deb, K. 2001. Multi-Objective Optimization Using Evolutionary Algorithms, 518 pp., John Willy 
& Sons, Ltd: New York. 
Deb, K., A. Pratap, S. Agarwal, and T. Meyarivan. 2002. “A fast and elitist multiobjective 
genetic algorithm: NSGA-II”, IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation 6(2): 
182-197. 
Fausch, K. D., J. Lyons, J. R. Karr, and P. L. Angermeier. 1990. “Fish communities as indicators 
of environmental degradation”, American Fisheries Society Symposium 8: 123-144. 
Frissell, C. A., W. J. Liss, C. E. Warren, and M. D. Hurley. 1986. “A hierarchical framework for 
stream habitat classification: viewing streams in a watershed context”, Environmental 
Management 10: 199-214. 
Frothingham, K. M., B. L. Rhoads, and E. E. Herricks. 2002. “A multiscale conceptual 
framework for integrated eco-geomorphological research to support stream naturalization in 
the agricultural Midwest”, Environmental Management 29: 16-23. 
Goldberg, D. E. 1989. Genetic Algorithms in Search, Optimization and Machine Learning, 412 
pp., Addison-Wesley: Massachusetts. 
Gregory, S. V., F. J. Swanson, W. A. McKee, and K. W. Cummins. 1991. “An ecosystem 
perspective of riparian zones”, BioScience 41: 540-551. 
Harris, J. H. 1995. “The use of fish in ecological assessments”, Australian Journal of Ecology 
20(1): 65-80. 
Hawkins, C. P., J. L. Kershner, P. A. Bisson, M. D. Bryant, L. M. Decker, S. V. Gregory, D. A. 
McCullough, C. K. Overton, G. H. Reeves, R. J. Steedman, and M. K. Young. 1993. “A 
hierarchical approach to classifying stream habitat features”, Fisheries 18: 3-12. 
Herricks, E. E. 1977. Illinois Water Quality Management Information System. Illinois Water 
Information System Group, Springfield. 
Herricks, E. E. and J. P. Suen. 2006. “Integrative analysis of water quality and physical habitat in 
the ecological design of water resources projects”, Journal of Environmental Science and 
Health, Part A - Toxic/Hazardous Substances & Environmental Engineering 41(7): 
1303-1314. 
Jowett, I. G. 2002. “In-stream habitat suitability criteria for feeding inanga (Galaxias maculatus)”, 
New Zealand Journal of Marine and Freshwater Research 36(2): 399–407. 
Karr, J. R. 1981. “Assessment of biotic integrity using fish communities”, Fisheries 6(6): 21-27. 
Karr, J. R. 1999. “Defining and measuring river health”, Freshwater Biology 41(2): 221-234. 
Kaufmann P. R., P. Levine, E. G. Robinson, C. Seeliger, and D. V. Peck. 1999. Quantifying 
Physical Habitat in Wadable Streams. EPA/620/R-99/003. US Environmental Protection 
Agency, Office of Research and Development: Washington, DC.  
Kemp, J. L., D. M. Harper, and A. Cross-Giuseppe. 1999. “Use of ‘functional habitats’ to link 
ecology with morphology and hydrology in river restoration”, Aquatic Conservation: 
Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems 9: 159–178. 
Knighton, D. 1998. Fluvial Forms and Processes. Edward Arnold: London. 
Kuo, C. C. 2006. “Using ecotechnology to redirect Taiwan's construction work away from 
conventional method”, Ecological Engineering 28(4): 325-332. 
Lamouroux, N. and Y. Souchon. 2002. “Simple predictions of instream habitat model outputs for 
fish habitat guilds in large streams”, Freshwater biology 47(8): 1531-1542. 
Lamouroux, N. and F. Cattaneo. 2006. “Fish assemblages and stream hydraulics: consistent 
 41
Abad. 2004. “High-resolution numerical simulation of flow through a highly sinuous river 
reach”, Water Resources Management 18: 177–199. 
Rumelhart, D. E., G. E. Hinton, and R. J. Williams, 1986. “Learning internal representations by 
error propagation.” Parallel Distributed Processing, vol. 1, chap. 8, Rumelhart D. E. and J. 
L. McClelland, eds., MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass. 318-362. 
Schlosser, I. J. 1987. “The role of predation in age- and sizerelated habitat use by stream fishes”, 
Ecology 68: 651–659. 
Schwartz, J. S. 2002. Stream habitat characterized by stagespecific flows and three-dimensional 
geomorphological complexity: development of ecological criteria for stream restoration 
design. PhD dissertation, University of Illinois at Urbana- Champaign. 
Schwartz, J. S. and E. E. Herricks. 2004. “Use of prepositioned areal electrofishing devices with 
rod electrodes in small streams”, North American Journal of Fisheries Management 24(4): 
1320–1330. 
Schwartz, J. S. and E. E. Herricks. 2005. “Fish use of stage-specific fluvial habitats as refuge 
patches during a flood in a low gradient Illinois stream”, Canadian Journal of Fisheries and 
Aquatic Sciences 42: 1540–1552. 
Schweizer, S., M. E. Borsuk, I. Jowett, and P. Reichert. 2007. “Predicting joint frequency 
distributions of depth and velocity for instream habitat assessment”, River Research and 
Applications 23(3): 287-302. 
Simpson, P. K. 1993. “Fuzzy min-max neural networks – part 2: clustering”, IEEE transactions 
on fuzzy systems 1(1): 32-45. 
Su, W. C. and J. P. Suen. 2008. “The Application of Fish Autecology Matrix to Habitat 
Simulation”, Natural Resources Conservation Conference, Tainan, Taiwan. 86-94. 
Suen, J. P. 2005. Ecologically based methods for multi-objective water resources management in 
Taiwan, Ph.D. Dissertation, University of Illinois, Urbana, USA. 
Suen, J. P. and J. W. Eheart, 2006. “Reservoir management to balance ecosystem and human 
needs: incorporating the paradigm of the ecological flow regime”, Water Resources 
Research 42(3): W03417. 
Suen, J. P. and E. E. Herricks. 2006. “Investigating the causes of fish community change in the 
Dahan River (Taiwan) using an autecology matrix”, Hydrobiologia 568: 317-330 
Suen, J. P., A. C. Marcinkevage, and E. E. Herricks. 2006. “Linking Species Changes to 
Watershed Modification: A Long-Term Analysis Using Fish Communities”, ASCE/EWRI 
World Water & Environmental Resources Congress 2006, Omaha, Nebraska, USA. Paper in 
CD ROM. 
Suen, J. P., C. N. Chen, and C. H. Tsai. 2008. “Creating Diverse Habitat in Ecological Water 
Resources Management”, ASCE/EWRI World Water & Environmental Resources Congress 
2008, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. Paper in CD ROM. 
Thomson, J. R., M. P. Taylor, K. A. Fryirs, and G. J. Brierley. 2001. “A geomorphological 
framework for river characterization and habitat assessment”, Aquatic Conservation: Marine 
and Freshwater Ecosystems 11(5): 373-389. 
Tomsic, C. A., T. C. Granata, R. P. Murphy, and C. J. Livchak. 2007. “Using a coupled 
eco-hydrodynamic model to predict habitat for target species following dam removal”, 
Ecological Engineering 30(3): 215-230. 
Townsend, C. R., M. R. Scarsbrook, and S. Doledec. 1997. “The intermediate disturbance 
hypothesis, refugia, and biodiversity in streams”, Limnology and Oceanography 42(5): 
938-949. 
Vogel, R. M., J. Sieber, S. A. Archfield, M. P. Smith, C. D. Apse, and A. Huber-Lee. 2007. 
 43
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
達成目標 
 
研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
本研究成果豐碩，目前已發表研究論文 4 篇，研討會論文 8 篇，目前尚有相關論文仍在撰
寫，未來將再投稿寄出。本研究雖然以研究為主要目的，不過所建立的模式仍有發展應用
的潛力，將與實務工作人員討論未來推廣的可行性，希望未來工程設計及環境流量之應用
上能更有生態的考量。 
 
請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
一般在做溪流復育工程時，往往未能將所獲得的魚類群落資訊應用於工程設計中，本研究
所發展之溪流棲息地組成模式是結合魚類個體生態矩陣及野外現地調查及採樣的結果所建
立的，利用本模式可將歷史魚類群落資料或目標魚類群落轉換為可供工程設計所需之棲息
地組成比例，使工程的設計更具生態環境的考量。本模式已於 Journal of Fish Biology 發表，
足見本模式亦被生態期刊所採用。 
生態河川流態為強調保留自然河川流態的特性，設計來維持、保護及復育河川中的生物過
程、地形過程、物理過程及化學過程以維護溪流生態系統的流態流量管理方式。其與傳統
單一最低流量管理方式不同，將以往對於河川流量管理沒考慮到的生態問題納入其中，藉
由流量的自然變化，使得棲地多樣化，進而提供生物多樣化的潛能，論文中配合中等擾動
說做為生態用水目標，並與人類用水目標以多目標規劃的方式提供最佳方案組合供決策者
參考，領先國內外相關研究。已於 Water Resources Research 發表，已被引用近 40 餘次，足
見在發展生態河川流態的重要性。 
未來可將本研究成果應用在台灣河溪復育中生態性工程設計及河川環境流量的發展上，使
相關工程及管理上能更具生態的考量。 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                              日期： 101 年 5 月 30 日 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議地點位於美國 Albuquerque, New Mexico，會議時間為 101 年 5 月 20 日至
24 日，舉行為期五天之研討及演講活動。 
本次參加會議發表論文，「Considering Impacts on Water Usage and Environmental 
Integrity in an Interbasin Water Transfer Project」被大會安排為口頭論文發表，時間為 5 月
24 日下午 3 時 30 分至 5 時 00 分，為 Water Resources Planning and Management 主題中
之 Evolutionary Computation for Water Resources Management 小節的第三篇報告。本次論
文宣讀發表，含主持人共有兩位學者提問討論，對於如何於越域引水計畫考量兩條河川
之環境流量的設定加以討論，並對本研究成果給予高度的肯定，會後休息時間與他們進
一步交換意見及討論，他們對於本論文研究有高度興趣並予以肯定，且互相留下連絡方
式建立日後學術交流的管道，對本研究後續的研究發展有很大的助益，亦是此行的收穫
之一。 
本研討會為美國土木工程學會(ASCE)一年一度在水及環境議題之主要國際會議，本
年度的主題在於「Crossing Boundaries」，討論議題涵蓋下列 4 個 Symposiums:  
    1. Arid Lands Symposium 
    2. Climate Change Symposium 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-006-236-MY3 
計畫名稱 魚類群落棲地模式及其於河溪復育中生態性工程設計及環境流量之應用 
出國人員
姓名 孫建平 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立成功大學水利及海洋工程學系 
副教授 
會議時間 101 年 5月 20 日至 101 年 5 月 24 日 會議地點 Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA 
會議名稱 World Environmental & Water Resources Congress 2012 
發表論文
題目 
Considering Impacts on Water Usage and Environmental Integrity in an 
Interbasin Water Transfer Project 
六、其他 
附「Considering Impacts on Water Usage and Environmental Integrity in an Interbasin Water 
Transfer Project」論文被接受發表之大會證明文件、摘要一份及口頭報告照片 2 張。 
 
 
 
 
Considering Impacts on Water Usage and Environmental Integrity in an 
Interbasin Water Transfer Project 
 
Tseng-Wen Reservoir Transbasin Diversion is studied by considering impacts on both water usage 
and environmental integrity simultaneously. This study attempts to provide management strategies 
on water diverting rate and 10 days reservoir operation for an optimal solution of both water usage 
of southern Taiwan and environmental integrity of Tseng-Wen and Launong River basins by using 
genetic algorithm (GA). Historical flow data of Launong River and Tseng-Wen Reservoir from 
1975 to 1998 were compiled into six indices for the GA simulations with their associated weights. 
The GA simulation results show that the optimal water diversion is 0.05 of the low flow (flow less 
than 20 million cubic meter/10 days), adding 0.39 of the median flow (flow between 20 million and 
100 million cubic meter/10 days), and adding 0.37 of the high flow (flow between 100 million and 
200 million cubic meter/10 days). Under this optimal operation, the results of the water deficiency 
at Launong River and the environmental integrity at Launong River and Tseng-Wen Reservoir are 
better than the original plan. 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：孫建平 計畫編號：98-2221-E-006-236-MY3 
計畫名稱：魚類群落棲地模式及其於河溪復育中生態性工程設計及環境流量之應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 8 8 100% 
主要參與人碩士
生為 4人，另有許
多碩士生研究生
參與採樣及資料
整理等工作 
博士生 2 2 100% 
主要參與人博士
生為 2人，另有許
多碩士生研究生
參與採樣及資料
整理等工作 
博士後研究員 1 1 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100% 
本 模 式 已 於
Journal of Fish 
Biology 發表，足
見本模式亦被生
態期刊所採用。 
目前仍有投稿的
論文。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
國外 
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
本研究成果豐碩，目前已發表研究論文 4篇，研討會論文 8篇，目前尚有相關論文仍在撰
寫，未來將再投稿寄出。本研究雖然以研究為主要目的，不過所建立的模式仍有發展應用的
潛力，將與實務工作人員討論未來推廣的可行性，希望未來工程設計及環境流量之應用上能
更有生態的考量。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
一般在做溪流復育工程時，往往未能將所獲得的魚類群落資訊應用於工程設計中，本研究
所發展之溪流棲息地組成模式是結合魚類個體生態矩陣及野外現地調查及採樣的結果所
建立的，利用本模式可將歷史魚類群落資料或目標魚類群落轉換為可供工程設計所需之棲
息地組成比例，使工程的設計更具生態環境的考量。本模式已於 Journal of Fish Biology
發表，足見本模式亦被生態期刊所採用。 
生態河川流態為強調保留自然河川流態的特性，設計來維持、保護及復育河川中的生物過
程、地形過程、物理過程及化學過程以維護溪流生態系統的流態流量管理方式。其與傳統
單一最低流量管理方式不同，將以往對於河川流量管理沒考慮到的生態問題納入其中，藉
由流量的自然變化，使得棲地多樣化，進而提供生物多樣化的潛能，論文中配合中等擾動
說做為生態用水目標，並與人類用水目標以多目標規劃的方式提供最佳方案組合供決策者
參考，領先國內外相關研究。已於 Water Resources Research 發表，已被引用近 40 餘次，
足見在發展生態河川流態的重要性。 
未來可將本研究成果應用在台灣河溪復育中生態性工程設計及河川環境流量的發展上，使
相關工程及管理上能更具生態的考量。 
研究所得成果不僅達到預期目標，並於研究期間參與國際研討會與國內研討會投稿論文數
