 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
智慧型視覺照護與監控 
子計畫三：應用於多相機監控系統的無間隙人物活動記錄與意外事
件偵測技術 (3/3) 
 
計畫類別：□ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221  －E007  － 076  －MY3 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：黃仲陵教授 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 黃本宣、曹益鐘、徐士中 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位： 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  8   月   18   日 
附件一 
frequently afterward, then it will become as a normal event in a near future. Therefore, the 
abnormal event detection model has to adjust adaptively for the event occurrence. 
To detect an abnormal event, most of the researches try to detect moving object and then 
extract the motion features such as the trajectories[1∼3]. However, the object extraction and 
tracking have faced the occlusion problem. Once the object being occluded, the tracking 
algorithm may fail. In[4, 5], they use the optical flow method to extract the motion vector field as 
the feature of the moving object and propose social force model to detect abnormal crowd 
behavior. However, they cannot distinguish the behavior of an individual. Nater et al. [6] present 
an approach for unusual event detection based on a tree of trackers. At lower levels, the trackers 
are trained on broad classes of targets. At higher levels, they aim at more specific targets. 
In [7], they use the HMM model to model the human behaviors. In [10], a linear dynamical 
system is proposed to model the Dynamic Textures (DT) of the normal event which is further 
extended as Mixture of DTs to model the spatial and temporal texture variations. However, the 
EM algorithm is computation intensive and not suitable for real-time application. Conditional 
Random Field (CRF) is proposed as statistical model for human motion recognition [8]. Different 
from HMM, which is constructed for modeling each human behavior, CRF can be treated as a 
finite state model for all familiar human behaviors.  
The difficult of using HMM for event detection is the thresholding problem. Here, we 
propose an adaptive threshold CRF model to overcome the weakness of fixed threshold HMM 
method. A CRF is initially trained with the normal behaviors. There are ambiguities among 
behaviors that exhibit similar postures and motion activities.  
三、研究方法與成果 
We propose using motion vectors and the Motion Energy Image (MEI) as the observation. In 
the training process, we extract the motion feature of the moving human object, use the SVM to 
label the observed features, and then train the CRF model using these labeled features of the 
normal behavior. In the testing phase, we use the CRF to compute the likelihood of the video 
segment and then compare the likelihood with certain threshold to identify the abnormal behavior. 
This study will develop an adaptive method to detect abnormal behaviors using CRF. Different 
from [4, 5], we propose MEI method. Our method can identify the motion area with larger MEI 
as the individual moving object and identify its behavior. 
1. Statistical Model 
For identifying behavior, one HMM is constructed for each behavior as shown in Figure 1(a). In 
contrast, one CRF model is constructed for all behaviors as shown in Figure 1(b). In Figure 1(a), 
Yi is a label, m is the number of labels, sij is a state of HMM for label Y, xj is an observation of 
input sequence x at position j, yj is a label sequence of input sequence x at position j, yj∈{Y1, …Ym} 
and n is the length of observation sequence x.  
Let X is a random variable over data sequence and Y is a random variable over the 
corresponding labeled sequence. The random variables X and Y are jointly distributed, but in a 
discriminative framework we construct a conditional model p(YX) from paired observation and 
label sequences. CRF is a random field globally conditioned on observation X. Let G=(V, E) be a 
graph and Y={Yvv∈V}, so that Yv is indexed by the set of vertices V, then (Y, X) is a 
conditional random field in case, when conditioned on X, the random variables Yv follow the 
Markov process.  
We define X=(X1, …Xn) and Y=(Y1,…Yn). If the graph G of Y is a tree, its cliques are edges 
and vertices. Let C(Y, X) be a set of maximal clique of G by using the fundamental theorem of 
as the motion energy map MEI(x, y). For every 10 frames, we accumulate ten motion vector 
fields as  
2 2( , ) ( , ) ( , )MEI x y U x y V x y= +                           (5) 
where U(x, y) = ΣtU(x, y, t) is the accumulated motion vector field in horizontal direction, and V(x, 
y) = ΣtV(x, y, t)  represents the accumulated motion vector field in vertical direction. The 
conventional MEI does not include the motion direction information. Here, we divide the MEI 
into nine different directions. 
2.2 Hu moments 
With MEI obtained from the input image, we may represent the region of MEI by using Hu 
moment. For an MEI region f(x, y), the (p+q)th moment, we normalize the Hu moment by 
dividing the central moment so that they become scale, translation, and rotation invariant. MEI is 
separated in nine directions, and each can be represents by 7 Hu moments. Therefore, MEI can be 
represented by a 63-D feature vector. 
2.3. Threshold Model with CRF 
Most of the existing abnormal behavior detection methods employ a fixed threshold to 
discriminate abnormal and normal behaviors. However, it is difficult to select a fixed threshold. A 
threshold model with CRF (T-CRF) is constructed by adding the label for normal behaviors 
patterns N in the original CRF using the weight of state and the transition feature function of the 
original CRF. The label for T-CRF are {Y1, Y2, …Yl, G} where l is the number of labels of the 
CRF (see Figure 1) and G is the label for normal behavior patterns. 
a) Weight of the state feature function. The weights of a state feature function are distributed 
over several labels when it variance is small. By assigning the weight of state feature function of 
the label for normal behavior pattern G based on the variance of weights of state feature functions, 
the threshold model with CRF can correctly spot abnormal and normal patterns. The weight of 
state feature function of the label for normal behavior pattern G is calculated by applying Dugad 
et al.’s method [11]. 
b) Weight of the transition feature function. The frequencies of normal behaviors are larger 
than those of abnormal behaviors. Therefore, the weights for feature functions of label for normal 
behavior patterns G should be higher than those of the other label for abnormal behaviors. 
Normal behavior patterns undergo a transition to a specific abnormal or normal behavior pattern. 
Therefore, we apply Yang et al.’s method [12] to determine the weight of the transition feature 
function from the label for normal behavior pattern G to the other labels. 
c) Spotting abnormal behavior. We examine the time evolution of the likelihood generated by 
CRF with different threshold levels. Since the likelihood of normal behavior pattern usually has 
the larger value, the threshold level will be larger. The likelihood of the first appearance of 
abnormal behavior often falls below those levels of normal behaviors. Initially, the likelihood of 
the abnormal behavior is initially low with a lower threshold level. However, after several 
occurrence of the same abnormal behavior, the corresponding probability will become greater. 
Therefore, the abnormal event of frequently occurrence may become a normal event. Besides, the 
occurrence of the abnormal behavior is less frequently so that the two continuous abnormal 
patterns are considered as a single one. 
四、實驗結果與討論 
In the experiments, we test four videos: the 1st video is from [6], the 2nd video is from “prova” [9], 
and the 3rd and 4th ones are self-made videos with single and multiple objects.  
observation as well as long-term contextual dependencies among observations at different 
time-steps. CRF can be used to model a variety of normal behaviors. In the experiments, we 
demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. 
五 參考文獻 
[1] C. Huang, B. Wu, and R. Nevatia. Robust Object Tracking by Hierarchical Association of 
Detection Responses. Proc. ECCV, 2008, pp.788-801. 
[2] C. Beleznai  and H. Bischof. Fast Human Detection In Crowded Scenes by Contour 
Integration and Local Shape Estimation. Proc. CVPR, 2009, pp.2246-2253. 
[3] J. Xing, H. Ai, and S. Lao. Multi-Object Tracking Through Occlusions by Local Tracklets 
Filtering and Global Tracklets Association with Detection Responses. IEEE CVPR  2009 , pp. 
1200-1207 . 
[4] R. Mehran, A. Oyama, and M. Shah. Abnormal Crowd Behavior Detection using Social Force 
Model. Proc. CVPR, 2009, pp.935-942. 
[5] L. Kratz, and K. Nishino. Anomaly Detection in Extremely Crowded Scenes Using 
Spatio-Temporal Motion Pattern Models.  Proc. CVPR, 2009, pp.1446-1453. 
[6] F. Nater, H. Grabner, T. Jaeggli, and L.G. Van. Tracker Trees for Unusual Event Detection. 9th 
IEEE Int. workshop on visual surveillance,  Oct. 2009, Kyoto, Japan. 
[7] N.M. Oliver, B. Rosario, and A.P. Pentland. A Bayesian Computer Vision System for 
Modeling Human Interactions. IEEE Trans. on PAMI, Vol.22, pp. 831 -843, 2000. 
[8] J. Lafferty, A. McCallum, F. Pereira. Conditional Random Fields: Probabilistic Models for 
Segmenting and Labeling Sequence Data. Int. Conf. on Machine Learning, Williamstown, USA, 
June 2001, pp.282-289. 
[9] Visor database, http://www.openvision.org. 
[10] V. Mahadevan, W. Li, V. Bhalodia, and N. Vasconcelos. Anomaly Detection in Crowded 
Scenes. IEEE CVPR, June 2010. 
[11] R. Dugad and  U. B. Desai. A Tutorial on HMM. Tech. Report SPANN-96.1, EE Dept. IIT, 
India, May 1996. 
[12] H. D. Yang, A. Y. Park, and S. W. Lee. Gesture Spotting and Recognition for Human-Robot 
Interaction. IEEE Trans. on Robotics, Vol. 23, no.2, 2007. 
#39~#82 #399~#504 #518~#572 #682~#800 #867~#916 
     
(a)            (b)           (c)          (d)              (e) 
Figure 4. In the testing sequence seq2, five abnormal behaviors are detected: (a) washing hands, 
(b) jumping over the couch, (c) lying on sofas, (d) falling down, and (e) getting upset. 
(a) (b)  
Figure 5. (a) TP-FP ROC curve, (b) Precision- Recall curve. 
#413~#427 #881~#961 #1065~#1077 
   
                 (a)                (b)                (c) 
Figure 6. Three abnormal behaviors are detected: (a) fall down, (b) stand-up, and (c) false alarm. 
 
 參加國際學術會議報告 
                                    序號： 
姓    名 黃仲陵 單  位 清大電機系 職  稱 教授 
電  話 5742585 出國報告含附件 □是   █否 
會議期間 8/27/2011~8/ 28/2011 會議地點 中國山東省煙台市 
會議名稱 
2011 3rd IEEE Int. Conf. on Signal Processing Systems (ICSPS 
2011) 
論文名稱 
Human Object Walking Motion Parameters Estimation from a 
Single View 
報告內容 
 
一、目的 
參加國際研討會與相關學者交換研究心得。 
二、參加會議經過 
此次職參加由 IEEE 主辦一年一度的 ICSPS 2011 會議，並在會議中發
表兩篇論文，該會議的研究議題很廣，本人也參加了不少論文發表會收
穫良多。整個全部的會議的議程共兩天(08/27/2011~08/28/2011)，發表
的論文的研究領域包括：自我調整濾波與信號處理，Ad - Hoc和感測器
網路類比和混合信號處理，陣列信號處理，音訊和電音訊/語音處理和
編碼，生物成像和信號處理，生物識別與身份認證，生物信號處理和理
解，通信和寬頻網路，通信信號處理，電腦視覺與虛擬實境，密碼學與
網路安全，設計與信號處理系統的實現，數位信號處理，嵌入式系統和
DSP 實現，新興技術信號處理硬體實現，高階譜分析，圖像和多維信
號處理，影像處理與理解，圖像/視頻處理和編碼，工業技術互聯網信
號處理，學習機的信號處理，調製和通道編碼，多媒體與人機交互，多
媒體通信，多媒體信號處理等。該會議今年改在煙台市的三東工商學院
的會議中心舉辦。論文比較接近實際應用導向，因此有一些的工業界相
關領域的同行參加。此次整個會議共有兩百多人參加，會議論文大約有
100篇發表。論文的水準很嚴謹。此次筆者於 08/26/2011由台灣搭機前
往青島短暫停留後後轉往煙台市參加會議。 
三、與會心得： 
本人此次參加會議收獲良多，此次會議中有很多優良的論文口頭報
告。 
四、建議： 
以後國內應多爭取舉辦大型國際會議。 
五、攜回資料及內容 
筆者攜回論文。 
附註 
報告內容應包括下列各項：1.目的 2.參加會議經過 3.與會心得 4.考察
參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 5.建議 6.攜回資料名稱及內容 7.其他 
參加國際學術會議報告 
                                   序號： 
姓    名 黃仲陵 單  位 清大電機系 職  稱 教授 
電  話 5742585 出國報告含附件 □是   █否 
會議期間 
11/28/2011~11/ 30/2011 
會議地點 中國北京市 
會議名稱 
2011 Asian Conference on Pattern Recognition (ACPR 2011) 
論文名稱 
People Counting using Ellipse Detection and Forward/Backward 
Tracing 
報告內容 
 
一、目的 
參加國際研討會與相關學者交換研究心得。 
二、參加會議經過 
此次職參加由 ACPR 2011 會議，並在會議中發表三篇論文，該會議的研
究議題很廣，本人也參加了不少論文發表會收穫良多。整個全部的會議的
議程共三天(11/28/2011~11/30/2011)，發表的論文的研究領域包括：影像處
理，圖形識別，電腦視覺， 生物識別與身份認證，虛擬實境，密碼學與
網路安全，多媒體與人機交互，多媒體通信，多媒體信號處理等。該會議
在北京市的會議中心舉辦。論文比較接近實際應用導向，因此有一些的工
業界相關領域的同行參加。此次整個會議共有兩百多人參加，此會議論文
的水準很嚴謹，從投稿論文的 272篇論文中，選出 142篇發表在會議中發
表。 
三、與會心得： 
本人此次參加會議收獲良多，此次會議中有很多優良的論文口頭報告。 
四、建議： 
以後國內應多爭取舉辦大型國際會議。 
五、攜回資料及內容 
筆者攜回論文。 
附註 
報告內容應包括下列各項：1.目的 2.參加會議經過 3.與會心得 4.考察參
觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 5.建議 6.攜回資料名稱及內容 7.其他 
請於回國後一個月內將此表填妥 mail至 chchhsu@mx.nthu.edu.tw信箱 
 
異常分析等 
 
參加會議經過 
很高興這次有機會或得補助參加研討會，這次來到韓國參加影像相關的研討會，在報
告研討會心得之前，有一些在韓國觀察到的心得，想要藉此報告分享我的經驗，其實很多
人都知道，韓國的面版，網際網路相當的發達，以前在台灣對此感覺並不深刻，進入韓國
仁川機場後，很明顯可以感覺液晶面板圍繞在身邊，由此可知韓國面版業發展之盛，面版
產品普及之廣，可想而知韓國面版的出貨率是多麼的高。為了通訊上的方便，韓國當地提
供手機租借的服務，這在台灣跟大陸算是比較少見的服務，在通訊品質上，雖然沒有台灣
的的速度高，但是連線品質遠優於台灣的移動通訊業務，值得國內借鑑。 
建議事項 
雖然韓國首爾算得上國際級的都市，但本次的主辦地在光州，交通上並不是十分便利，
從台灣訂機票，就沒有務安國際機場或光州國際機場的航班，直達巴士也需要四個小時左
右，高鐵也須要兩個小時的車程，而且光州不同於首爾，英語不通，在到達光州時，無法
與司機進行溝通，以致於載到會場而不是住宿處，幸得當地學生半夜相助才得以抵達旅館，
但已是當地的凌晨三點，且各大飯店的語言溝通都很困難，造成行程上一定的不便，日後
其他學生有機會到光州開會，請注意語言問題。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/08/16
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫三：應用於多相機監控系統的無間隙人物活動記錄與意外事件偵測技術
計畫主持人: 黃仲陵
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-007-076-MY3 學門領域: 訊號處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
