  2
行政院國家科學委員會九十五年度專題研究計畫報告 
 
個人動力系統之微型液態燃燒器的研發與應用 
Development of a Liquid Film Micro-Combustor for Personal power Systems 
 
計畫編號: NSC 95－2218－E－006－025 
執行期限: 2006年 02月 01日至 2007年 04月 30日 
主持人:趙怡欽 國立成功大學航太系 
E-mail: ycchao@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
 
摘要 
本計畫之研究重點在發展個人動力
系統之介觀型(meso-scale)液態燃燒器的
研發與應用，其目標是突破傳統大尺寸液
態碳氫燃油之動力系統在動能與能量密
度上所遭遇的瓶頸，研發一輕巧、方便攜
帶之個人動力系統，其動力技術之核心領
域 分 為 熱 化 學 引 擎 (thermochemical 
engines) 、 電 化 學 能 量 (electrochemical 
energy)，引入數值模擬與雷測診測技術對
液態燃油在介觀尺寸燃燒下作深入研究
與結合精密機械加工與系統控制以達到
整合各動力元件以致最佳化之個人動力
系統，此外本計畫將進行國際合作方式，
與美國加州大學爾灣分校的個人動力系
統 研 究 中 心 (Personal Power System 
Research Center，簡稱 PPSRC )共同合作發
展，其計畫之主要大綱有：1. 燃油供給與
儲存─以最低能量與最小尺度供給燃油至
燃燒室；2.增進動力與能量效率─探討小
尺寸之熱化學與電化學轉化路徑，以製造
高效率與高能比之設備；3.廢氣管理─降
低攜帶型動力系統之溫度、噪音與化學放
射，以符合人類攜帶使用；4.動力整合與
控制─研發最佳化比能(specific power)之
個人動力系統。 
 
關鍵字： 個人動力系統、微型燃燒器、
液態膜、能量密度、功率密度 
 
Abstract 
    The main objective of this research 
project is to develop a novel meso-scale 
liquid fuel combustor, that specifically 
breakthroughs the bottleneck problems of 
low power and energy density of 
conventional power systems, for application 
in the personal power system (PPS). The 
core of the techniques lies in 
thermochemical, and electrochemical, yet 
the success of the system development lies 
in proper integration of advanced research 
tools such as laser diagnostics and 
numerical simulation with precision 
machining and control strategies. Through 
International cooperative research project 
we will have joint research venture by 
sharing the major research facilities, 
research results and achievements with Prof. 
D. Dunn-Rankin and Personal Power 
System Research Center of University of 
California Irvine in the development of the 
novel porous injection meso-scale liquid 
combustor for the personal power system. 
The work items will include: 1. fuel supply 
and storage, 2. high efficiency energy 
conversion, 3. emission management, and 4. 
control and system integration.  
  
Keywords: Personal power system, micro 
combustor, liquid film, energy density, 
power density 
 
1. Introduction 
The opportunities and demand for devices 
that enhance autonomous human mobility, 
surveillance, and communication are 
growing rapidly in recent years, and power 
sources to energize these mobile systems are 
or will be becoming critical to meet this 
demand as the sizes of the systems are 
becoming miniaturized. Many of these 
  4
latent heat and sensible heat, which are 
supported by convective heat transfer from 
solid to liquid/vapor via solid-liquid/vapor 
interactions and by thermal radiation 
absorption by the liquid fuel and fuel vapor. 
Chemical reaction takes place outside the 
porous cap, where the preheated liquid fuel 
vapor meets and mixes with the swirling air 
to form a homogeneous gas mixture 
followed by combustion. Thermal radiation 
and convective heat transfer from flame 
convey to the porous cap to create 
evaporation. 
 
3. Experiments 
3-1 Configuration of Miniature Film 
Combustor 
The combustion chamber is made of a 
stainless steel tube (or a quartz tube for 
visualization) of 60 mm in length and 9.5 
mm in diameter. Heptane fuel is injected 
tangentially from two inlet ports into the 
bottom of the chamber using a syringe pump, 
which provides continuous fuel inlet in 
c.c.-per-hour scale. Air, metered by an 
electronic flowmeter, is injected tangentially 
below the fuel ports at flow rates between 
4.5 and 9.5 liters/min, resulting in mean 
inlet flow velocities ranging from 1.04 to 
2.2 m/s with corresponding non-reacting 
Reynolds numbers of 640 to 1350. Overall 
equivalence ratios vary between 1.9 and 0.9. 
 
3-2 Fame Observation 
To meet the purpose, the porous cap plays 
an important role to spread the liquid fuel in 
a thin film on the cap surface and to 
vaporize the liquid fuel by conduction. In 
other words, the porosity and conductivity 
of the porous cap would be essential 
parameters in the efficiency of combustion. 
Figure 3(a) shows the stability limits of 
heptane/air combustion in combustors with 
porous caps made of different bead sizes. 
The bead sizes are 20, 40 and 70 μm 
respectively and all porosity approaches to 
35.6%. The result clearly shows that smaller 
porous cap bead sizes can operate in lower 
equivalence ratios. In general, the small-size 
porous media can offer thin and uniform 
liquid film on the surface and the increased 
solid surface also enhance liquid fuel 
evaporation and preheating. Furthermore, 
Fig. 3(b) shows the stability limits of 
combustion with different porous cap 
materials, such as bronze and stainless steel. 
In general, the equivalence ratio of stability 
limit of stainless steel is larger than the one 
of bronze. It appears that porous caps made 
of higher specific heat materials have to be 
operated in the fuel-rich region. Certainly, 
the porous cap having a higher specific heat 
has a capability to store more   energy 
from flame, and tends to result in 
combustion instability (discuss later). 
Nevertheless, the combustion instability in 
stainless steel media becomes pronounced in 
low Reynolds numbers due to enhanced 
superheating and insufficient air cooling of 
the porous cap. More liquid fuel has to be 
fed to cool the porous media in order to 
continuous running leading to higher 
equivalence ratios in the low Reynolds 
number region. 
Figure 4 shows the flame and CH* 
chemiluminescence images of pure 
heptane/air flames of different equivalence 
ratios from 1.9 to 0.9 in the miniature 
combustor by increasing the airflow from 
4.5 to 9.5 L/min while holding the liquid 
fuel flow rate constant at 57.9 cc/hr. The 
porous cap metal combustor exhibits a wide 
range of flame characteristics depending on 
the airflow rate through the system. In the 
low swirling flow (the first two cases in Fig. 
4), flame may locate in two different 
positions: one is on the top of porous cap 
and the other holds on the rim of the 
chamber exit respectively. The first flame 
anchoring on the porous cap is stabilized by 
the recirculation zone and the second on the 
chamber rim is because that the residence 
time is too short to react completely. As the 
swirling air increases, the flame length will 
be shortened and its anchoring position will 
move upstream. Strong swirling (for the last 
four cases in Fig. 4) can force the flame into 
the chamber with more complete reaction. 
In order to observe the main reacting zone 
of the flame, spontaneous CH* 
  6
A numerical study of the flow and flame 
characteristics of the described miniature 
combustor is conducted using a simplified 
combustor configuration. Commercial CFD 
solver CFDRC is employed for the 
simulation. The axisymmetric 
computational domain (see Fig. 6) is 
meshed with a rectangular grid system of a 
total number of 5380 nodes. The domain 
comprises a straight circular cylinder with 
swirling air entering the combustor, and a 
central porous cap of bronze filled with 
heptane fuel. As for the boundary conditions, 
air enters the combustor inlet at atmospheric 
conditions (T = 300K; p = 1 atm) and 
profiles for the swirl and radial velocity 
components are specified as follows:  
Vθ=W(y/Rs), Vr=0 
with the axial velocity profile: 
Vz=U 
and with U = 1.15-2.44 m/s and W= 1.0-2.0 
m/s for air. On combustor wall, no-slip 
conditions are imposed as well as zero 
diffusive fluxes for the mass fraction of the 
various mixture species. Atmospheric 
pressure conditions are prescribed at 
outflow boundaries, downstream and away 
from the combustor exit. Figure 7 shows the 
velocity distribution in the chamber and the 
downstream region. Velocity vectors in the 
centreline of the chamber move reversely, 
characterizing the swirling recirculation tail, 
and the anchor point of recirculation moves 
upstream along the centreline as the air flow 
rate increases. There is also a small 
recirculation zone on the top of porous 
medium, which contributes to the mixing of 
gaseous fuel and air and to the stabilization 
of flame in the combustor. Figure 8 shows 
the averaged-velocity distribution in the 
vicinity of the combustor exit measured by 
PIV (particle image velocimetry) for the 
case of 5.5, 8.5 and 11.5 L/min inlet air flow 
rate injected tangentially into the chamber. 
In the experimental results, downward 
reversed-flow velocity vectors in the 
centreline are apparent, whereas the 
outgoing velocity near the corner of 
chamber increases depending upon the air 
flow rate. In the present swirl flow setup, 
increasing the inlet air flow rate will 
enhance the swirl strength and the 
downward moving flow and the 
recirculation zone become stronger with the 
swirl strength. However, the 2D PIV results 
may not fairly demonstrate the 3D swirl 
flow motion. It is because the strong 
swirling air will cause significant out-of 
plane velocity vectors in the PIV 
measurements and reduce the precision of 
the results. Further assessment of the PIV 
results are warranted if the quantitative PIV 
results are needed. 
 
4. Conclusions 
The new concept of central porous 
liquid-film meso-scale miniature combustor 
is proposed. Metal-porous medium can 
result in the optimization of vaporizing 
surface area and energy, as well as inhibition 
quenching. Although the airflow rates need 
to be fast enough to generate necessary swirl 
for film and flame stabilization, this bring to 
natural oscillation of flame.  Within the 
range of stable airflow rates, steady 
injection of fuel is necessary to prevent 
oscillations in the flame and any resulting 
instabilities. Also, the amount of fuel must 
be large enough to keep the porous medium 
cool, but cannot exceed the flame’s 
vaporization capabilities. In the experiments, 
these requirements mean that the combustor 
is mostly operated in rich conditions. 
Besides, long flame plums indicate 
insufficient mixing. Implementation of 
raising the airflow rate is possible, but the 
flame is very sensitive to swirl geometry. 
The swirler’s and porous’ role as a flame 
holder and whether it will provide higher 
swirl and better mixing requires further 
verify. Moreover, through numerical 
simulating we will attempt to identify the 
key design variables that we can manipulate 
to improve the combustor performance in 
future. 
 
計畫成果自評 
Nowadays, the demand of a reliable 
personal power system between 10 to 10k 
watt is rising with an unexpectedly rapid 
  8
Fig. 7 Velocity distribution of cold-flow at the 
corner of porous cap (a) 5.5 (b) 8.5 (c) 11.5 L/min 
 
(a)
(b)
(c)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CH* 
Φ=1.90 Φ=1.56 Φ=1.32 Φ=1.14 Φ=1.01 Φ=0.90
Fig 4. Flame structure and CH* image 
 
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
600 700 800 900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400
Stainless steel
Bronze
線性 (Bronze)
多項式 (Stainless steel)
Pore size (μm)  
(A)    Reynolds Number (ReD) 
Fig 3.  
(A) Stability limits of heptane/air combustion in 
different bead size of porous cap combustor
(B) Stability limits of heptane/air combustion in 
different material of porous cap combustor 
(B)   Reynolds Number (ReD) 
Materials   
Eq
ui
va
le
nc
e 
ra
tio
 φ
 
Eq
ui
va
le
nc
e 
ra
tio
 φ
 
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
700 800 900 1000 1100 1200 1300
20
40
70
乘冪 (70)
乘冪 (40)
乘冪 (20)
Porous medium 
Chamber wall Swirl air inlet 
z
r 
Fuel outlet 
Solid block 
Fig. 6 Simplified combustor geometry
Fuel rich 
Swirling 
porou
Gaseous 
1 2
34
Fuel rich 
aseous 
1→2→3→4→1 Time Trace 
Fig 5. Combustion Oscillation and 
Instability (cycle: 1→2→3→4→1) 
 
  10
 
一、緣起與互訪研究經過 
    本國際合作計畫主要重點為經由雙邊合作發展系列適合「個人動力系統之
微型液態燃燒器」，此個人動力系統的概念由 Prof. D. Dunn-Rankin (Dept. of 
Mechanical and Aerospace Eng., University of California at Irvine)首先提出，有別
一般流行的微機電(micro mechanical/electrical systems, MEMS)，特別指出目前
最需要也最欠缺有系統研究的動力系統其實是屬於介觀尺寸(meso scale)個人動
力系統(personal power systems)，獲得美國國家科學基金會(National Science 
Foundation, NSF)的三年計畫，並在美國加州大學爾灣分校 (University of 
California at Irvine)成立「個人動力系統研究中心」，其個人動力系統主要核心觀
念就是當尺寸縮小時，動力系統對介質的能量密度(energy density)與功率密度
(power density)的要求也相對大幅提高，已不是現在各種形式電池可以負荷，而
燃料燃燒所釋放出來的能量密度與功率密度千百倍於現今最好的鋰電池，是切
合需要的動力系統能源形式，他們也據此提出管壁液態膜(liquid film)微型燃燒器
(micro-combustor)的設計並發表於研討會與期刊上，他們的設計有管壁太熱、火
焰太長超出燃燒器、燃燒不完全等缺點，在一次研討會偶然機會我聆聽他們的
發表文章，而有用中央多孔材質注油的構想，一來可以保持液膜，二來管壁也
因為漩渦氣保護溫度不高，而且漩渦氣流也會促進混合而縮短火燄，獲得 Prof. 
Dunn-Rankin 讚賞而開啟此雙邊(NSC-NSF)合作研究計畫，而此合作計劃發展為
「個人動力系統之微型液態燃燒器」的第二代，結果達到原先預計的要求，相
當成功，雙方合作相當愉快，同時也激盪出第三代的設計，目前正在進行中。 
 
赴國外參訪研究心得報告 
 
計畫編號 NSC 95-2218-E-006-025 
計畫名稱 個人動力系統之微型液態燃燒器的研發與應用 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 趙怡欽 國立成功大學 航空太空工程學系 特聘教授 
出國時間地點 Irvine, California USA 2007/1/22-2007/01/30 
國外研究機構 Dept. of Mechanical and Aerospace Eng., University of California at Irvine 
 
工作記要與心得： 
    2007/1/22-2007/01/30前往美國加州大學 爾灣分校主要是拜訪Prof. 
Dunn-Rankin，並於實驗室分析討論博士班李約亨同學在此實驗室測試所得的結
果與遇到的相關問題，同時也討論改進方法與設計，這些討論對於結果的闡述
物理現象的了解以及計畫的進行有相當重要的貢獻。Prof. Dunn-Rankin也為我安
排一場在他們機航系的專題演講，題目為:＂Microjet Diffusion Flames: Structure 
and Stabilization Mechanism＂，為時1小時20分鐘，包含問答，反應相當熱烈，
問答雙方都有收穫。Prof. Dunn-Rankin安排他所有實驗室學生一一個別在實驗室
與我討論他們的研究與論文題目方向與目前結果，每個人30-40分鐘，尋求我的
看法與意見，這個工作整整耗掉一天，相當累人，但是深入了解Prof. Dunn-Rankin
的研究現況與方向，相當有收穫，也有助於未來多方面的合作。隔天參觀相關
實驗室，由學生解說他們的實驗與儀器設備，我也給他們一些建議。經由Prof. 
Dunn-Rankin安排也參觀他們學校相當有名的燃料電池(fuel cell)研究中心，以及
赴國外研究心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2218-E-006-025 
計畫名稱 個人動力系統之微型液態燃燒器的研發與應用 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職
稱 
李約亨 國立成功大學 航空太空所 
出國時間地點 Irvine, California 2006/12/07-2007/01/31 
國外研究機構 Dept. of Mechanical and Aerospace Eng., University of California at Irvine 
 
工作記要與心得： 
2006/12/07-2007/01/31 前往美國加州大學 爾灣分校，主要希望藉由航空機
械系 Prof. Dunn-Rankin 的雷射設備作相關非介入式雷射溫度量測-Coherent 
Antistoke Raman Scattering，這系統簡稱 CARS，此系統需要兩台 Nd:YAG、複
雜光路與光譜儀，CARS 量測系統可以在不破壞流場的狀況下，量測多孔式液態
燃燒器的出口溫度，且其精準度也於 10℃之內。利用 thermocouple 量測燃燒器
之出口溫度時，發現 thermocouple 會對於火焰產生像 block body 的現象，使得
火焰現象改變，因此 CARS 非介入式量測有其必要性，此外本實驗室尚無此實
驗設備與相關量測技術，因此與加州大學爾灣分校 Prof. DDR 聯繫，研究生 李
約亨前往其實驗室學習其相關技術與量測所需資料，並請教 Prof. Sirignano 對
central-porous film combustor 作理論分析，利用 heat transfer theory 提出理論模
組，利用 MATLAB 做疊代分析(iteration calculation)，並找出最佳燃燒尺寸、多
孔性材質與孔隙率(porosity)與燃燒器的壁面溫度關係，對於我們設計測試中央
Prof.D. Dunn-Rankin 來訪報告 
計畫編號 NSC 95-2218-E-006-025 
計畫名稱 個人動力系統之微型液態燃燒器的研發與應用 
互訪人員姓名 
服務機關及職
稱 
Prof. D. Dunn-Rankin Dept. of Mechanical and Aerospace Eng., 
University of California at Irvine 
來訪時間地點 國立成功大學 台南市 台灣 2006/11/04-2006/11/08 
研究機構 航空太空工程學系與航太科技研究中心 
 
工作記要與心得：  
    Prof. Dunn-Rankin為美國加州大學爾灣分校(University of California at Irvine)
教授，知名燃燒與燃燒診測(combustion diagnostics)專家，近年來於貧油燃燒(lean 
combustion) 以及微火焰 (microflame)與新穎創意燃燒系統 (novel combustion 
systems)方面之研究在國際上相當著名，目前是最重要燃燒期刊Progress in 
Energy and Combustion Science的編輯之外，也曾任國際燃燒學會美國西區分會
理事長(Western States Section/The Combustion Institute — Chair)，同時也是第31
屆國際燃燒研討會創意燃燒論壇召集人(31st Combustion Symposium, Novel 
Combustion Concepts Colloquium — Lead, 2006)，同時常在重要國際燃燒期刊發
表多篇重要論文與國際重要學術研討會中邀請演講。目前Prof. Dunn-Rankin 的
研究已朝向以介觀燃燒系統(meso-scale combustion system)進行個人動力系統
(personal power system)的整合，在美國加州大學爾灣(Irvine)分校主持個人動力系
統研究中心。 
    此次來訪扣除前後飛機與交通時間，基本上相當短，但是安排行程相當
