 10
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※                        ※ 
※實現直接推力控制技術於線性同步馬達精密控制之研究(I) ※ 
※                        ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-606-007 
執行期間：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：黃義盛   國防大學電機電子工程學系 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：潘彥良蔣河山 國防大學電機電子工程學系 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
■赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
 
執行單位：國防大學理工學院 
 
 
中 華 民 國 99 年 10 月 2 日 
 2
work first. Then the different intelligent 
control techniques are examined by the tools 
for the linear synchronous motor system. For 
obtaining the better performance, the factors 
of the variation parameters and the external 
loads are also considered. In addition, the 
approach of the sensor less motor control 
system should be involved in this project. 
This project proposes a precision position 
control policy for linear synchronous motor 
Systems. For this aim, this project plans to 
cover research works in three years as 
follows: 
(1) Design and implementation of a position 
controller using direct thrust control policy; 
(2) Promotion of the motor system 
performance based on sliding mode control 
with intelligent control policies; 
(3) Design and Analysis of the sensor less 
motor control system using fuzzy Petri nets. 
 
Keywords: intelligent control, direct thrust 
control, genetic algorithm, position control 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
線型馬達具有直接驅動、快速、精密定位、
構造簡單等特性，使其在直接線型驅動的
應用場合或學術研究上近年來有增加的趨
勢，由於傳統的直線型運動是將旋轉運動
轉換成直線運動，而由於滾珠螺桿本體存
在有間隙、摩擦力等問題，使得旋轉型馬
達透過滾珠螺桿定位機構的方式，將造成
在定位的精確度上有一定誤差存在，因而
在速度響應上則受到限制，對於效率、速
度、可靠度等性能明顯不足。然而，線型
馬達驅動系統具有高速度、高精度及可對
應長行程等特性，因此旋轉型馬達漸漸的
被線型馬達所取代。據此，本計畫將以線
型馬達作為研究標的。由於永磁線型同步
馬達驅動系統並沒有齒輪、皮帶、滾珠螺
桿等機械傳動裝置，因而易受漣波力、參
數變化和外來負載干擾所影響，而且邊界
效應亦使得推力的控制更加困難，此一議
題亦包括在本計畫研究所欲處理的課題項
目之一。目前利用磁場導向控制理論的研
究中主要是運用座標轉換技術，將三相座
標轉換至兩軸座標，並針對耦合項的控制
變數加以解耦合，如此優點可使交流馬達
的控制以類似直流馬達的控制方式來達成
控制目的。事實上，它仍然須面對參數敏
感性的問題，為解決此一問題，因而必須
處理座標轉變所產生錯綜複雜的問題。至
於直接轉矩控制理論雖然較晚出現，但是
在馬達驅動控制方法中亦是經常被採用的
控制方法：主要原因可歸納為: (1) 驅動
特性不須要像磁場導向控制法中繁複的電
壓；(2) 電流解耦合轉換運算，可有效降
低系統的複雜度；(3)馬達參數僅有定子電
阻會被使用，因此可有效改善因馬達參數
飄移所導致驅動性能降低的影響。近年
來，歐洲ABB公司更推出利用直接轉矩控
制技術的變頻器商品可為以佐證。因此申
請人認為，直接轉矩控制方法將會漸漸成
為交流馬達的主要控制技術之一。就申請
人所瞭解，有關直接轉矩控制法(在線型馬
達上稱為直接推力控制(DTC)法)應用在線
型馬達驅動控制的研究文獻[13-14]中，均
著重在演算法推導及電腦模擬驗證為主。
因此本計劃將致力於直接推力控制實現方
法，應用於線型馬達的驅動控制架構上。 
實際上，這也將會是目前文獻上所未曾有
過的實作驗證。就申請人所瞭解DTC 技術
在PMLSM 的實作過程中似乎尚未被實
現，經申請人研究發現其主要原因是難以
獲得其真實磁通值和實際磁通位置角度，
此相關問題之所以產生是在於，抵補誤差
所引起的漂移與動子電阻變動引起的估測
誤差，基於這兩個誤差因素，磁通估測的
準確性，已經成為能否實現高性能馬達驅
動控制的一項重要指標。大體而言，磁通
估測有兩種方法︰一是測量馬達之電流參
數，另一個是測量馬達之電壓參數 
[15-16] 。若採用電流參數的方法，則需透
過馬達氣隙磁通(解一組方程式)，且需要
馬達電流、速度或者位置等參數。這種方
法的缺點是參數會隨馬達旋轉的速度而產
生變化。若採用電壓參數的方法，則其磁
通能直接由反電動勢經由積分器獲得，並
不需馬達的速度信號。此一優點，說明電
壓參數方法因而被大部份研究學者所採用
[17-18]的原因，此亦說明一般磁通估測的
方法大都是基於電壓模型的由來。儘管如
此，如何實現一個準確度高的馬達磁通估
測器在技術上仍有待精進。申請人認為此
(Inverter)等所組成，其基本理論是將磁
通與推力分別控制，運用電壓向量切換表
獲得合適的馬達驅動電壓，此即其磁通估
測正確度為DTC 成功與否的關鍵所在；這
也正是DTC控制尚未被實現主要原因，因而
欲達成本計劃的目的，必需針對PMLSM 末
端效應所影響的電磁推力提出修正，一般
採用方法為馬克斯威爾應力張力分析方
法，再運用波形頻譜分析理論來提出正確
的磁通估測法則。本計畫進行步驟條列說
明如下： 
一、 PMLSM數學模型建立 
基本上線型馬達之優點為：(1)可高速
移動(加減速)；(2)長行程；(3)高精密位
置控制；(4)低噪音等。而其缺點為：(1)
發熱源位於馬達機構內部；(2)因無傳動機
構故強健性差，易受外來干擾鏈波力及參
數變化之影響；(3)防塵與防水必須特例處
理；(4)易受外界磁力影響；(5)馬達面積
大安裝不易；(6)停電時無法保持轉矩；(7)
邊界效應使得馬達推力較難控制。就申請
人所瞭解，目前涉及線型馬達的相關研
究，在控制器或驅動器部份都有深入的探
討，而在線型馬達數學模式的推導方面也
呈現出不同的方式，較具代表性可歸納二
部份部份，其一是Famouri (1992) [23]與
Kumin et al. 1999 [24]等學者利用能量
轉換模式來求解動態方程；其二是
Wakiwaka 和 Yajima [25, 26]則是提出線
圈移動式線型馬達的基本數學模式，本計
劃是利用後者的方式來推導線型馬達的數
學模式。本計畫所採用的線型馬達為型式
TRILOGY LM310-1 之無鐵心永磁式線型
同步馬達(PMLSM)，圖 2.2 所示即為永磁
線型同步馬達的外觀圖，如圖所示是由一
短的移動“一次側”線圈，包含螺旋狀之轉
子線圈(Core Armature)和霍爾元件感測器
(Hall Sensing Element)；和一長的固定
(Stationary)“二次側”線圈，包含由釹鐵硼
所組成的永磁和線型滑軌與線型光學尺
(Linear Scale)所組成其具有結構簡單、高推
力、高速、高精密度與長距離移動等諸多
優點。電磁推力的來源主要是由二次側的
釹鐵硼所產生的磁場和包含於動子內的交
流線圈磁場交互作用所產生。其邊界效應
較一般線型感應馬達易於控制。當電磁推
力直接被應用在沒有耦合機構的動子上，
則動子的移動為高度可控。本論文所使用
之永磁線型同步馬達的規格為額定電壓
110 伏特(均方根值)、額定連續電流 2.9 安
培(均方根值)、最小推力之連續功率 46 瓦
特、連續推力 57.8 牛頓。永磁極距(Pole 
Pitch)為 6.096 公分。該永磁線型同步馬達
的外觀圖如圖一所示。 
 
圖一：永磁線型同步馬達的外觀圖 
 
 
 
圖 二 相關座標系之空間關係說明圖 
 
之前曾提及PMLSM 其動態模式較為複雜，
不但具有高度的非線性特性，而且也有強
烈的耦合關係，通常線型馬達是使用d-q 軸
理論來分析，而線型馬達的動子相對於旋
轉型馬達的定子，為了方便說明，其相關
座標之空間關係在圖二中可以得到理解，
包括as-bs-cs 三相靜止座標、同步旋轉參
考座標與D-Q 靜止座標系統。 
經座標轉換及相關假設後，可得在d-q 軸
同步旋轉座標下，線型永磁式同步馬達動
態方程式： 
d a d d d qu R i L Di L iqω= + −  
q a q q q d du R i L Di L i fω ωλ= + + +  
馬達機械方程式可表示為(2.3)式： 
e p pF M x Bx FL= + +&& &  
其中 ud(id)與 uq(iq)為 d(q)軸動子電壓 (電
 4
數的方法，則其磁通能直接由反電動勢經
由積分器獲得，並不需馬達的速度信號。
儘管如此，如何實現一個準確度高的馬達
磁通估測器在技術上仍有待克服。而此一
技術性問題的關鍵問題在於: (1)若採用純
積分器則具有直流漂流問題[19-20]; (2) 
若採用一階低通(LP)濾波器取代純積分器
的方法被提出[21]，則在磁通估測的大小
與相位角方面會產生一個極大的誤差甚至
產生重大錯誤，特別是馬達在低於濾波器
的截止頻率下運轉。經申請人詳細驗證結
果發現，該問題至今尚未被完全克服。本
計畫的目的即是提出新的控制方法，以便
獲得到理論模擬驗證與實體操作的結果趨
於一致。以下將詳細說明控制系統中各個
方塊之功能與工作原理。 
 
三、 本研究提出解決途徑方法： 
直接推力控制(DTC)法應用在線型馬
達驅動控制的研究文獻[14-16]中，均著重
在演算法推導及電腦模擬驗證為主，在
PMLSMs的實際應用中似忽尚未被實現，其
原因為真實磁通值和真實磁通位置角度的
問題不容易獲得，從式(2-45)中我們可以
發現有純積分項的存在，相關問題包括測
量時由於抵補誤差所引起的漂移與動子電
阻變動引起的估測誤差，基於這兩個問
題，磁通估測成為實現高性能馬達驅動的
一項重要任務。藉由量測馬達的動子電壓
與動子電流，發展可以估測磁通大小與位
置的運算法則，通常，磁通估測有兩種方
法︰ 一是測量馬達之電流參數，另一個是
測量馬達之電壓參數[17-18] 。電流型與
電壓型的動子磁通估測器是屬於開迴路的
估測法則，其中電流型估測器在低速時受
動子電阻變化的影響，在高速時受動子電
阻及定子與動子間的互感影響；電壓型估
測器在低速時受動子電阻變化與動子電壓
大小的影響，高速時參數變動的影響並不
明顯。實用上，低速時常採用電流型。基
於電流型的方法，馬達氣隙磁通透過求解
一組方程式，需要馬達電流、速度或者位
置參數，這種方法的缺點是參數會隨馬達
旋轉的速度而變化。基於電壓型的方法，
其磁通能從反電動勢經由積分器直接獲
得，不需馬達的速度信號，考慮到這個因
素，與另一個相比較，這種基於電壓的方
法被非常更喜歡[19-20]，總之，一般磁通
估測的方法是基於電壓模型。但是，馬達
的磁通估測的實現不是容易的任務。這個
問題在先前的工作者中已顯露如下: (1)一
個純積分器結構如圖四，有直流(dc)漂流
問題[21-22];  
 
圖四： 動子磁通估測純積分器方塊圖 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
time (sec)
theta
fluxD
xp
 
圖五： 純積分器估測響應圖 
在過去兩者工作理，當能理解在實際上測
量馬達的反電動勢時，直流成分的電壓是
不可避免的，這個直流組成部分，不管它
多麼小，最後驅使純積分器進入飽和，其
估測器特性如圖五所示。為解決此一問
題，(2)用一階低通(LP)濾波器結構如圖六
代換純積分器的方法被提出[23]，令人遺
憾的是在大小與相位角方面會產生一個大
的錯誤，特別是馬達在低於濾波器的截止
頻率下運轉; 為了解決上述問題，(3)一種
修改型積分器被提出[24]，不過，問題卻
尚未被解決。 
 6
果，可以得到基於我們的估測法則所提出
的控制策略具有比傳統的估測法則控制系
統更佳的結論。 
0 1 2 3 4
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
time (sec)
theta xp fluxD
 
圖八： 我們提出的磁通估測策略 
 
四、成果自評 
 
PMLSM 所特有的複雜性與參數不確定
性，可能造成理論與實作上的差異，產生
不如預期的結果，本計劃的動機在致力於
以上所提的問題提出解決辦法。因此本計
劃的首要目標是應用電壓空間向量方法來
實現一個高性能馬達驅動器平台，以利往
後實驗所需。為了這個目標，申請人提出
一個修正型的磁通估測演算法則，便是在
回授補償中加入一個校正因子k，如圖七 
所示，以期獲得較為正確的磁通大小與位
置角度值。至於如何得到適當的校正因子
與截止頻慮ωc 將扮演著舉足輕重的份量，
因此本計劃將運用波形頻譜理論，分析
PMLSM 磁通估測的輸入/輸出關係，並且
提出有效可行的解決方案。本計畫第一年
期所預期的目標全部完成，並已將研究成
果整理並發表2篇SCI期刊及一篇國際會議
論，茲將計畫成果已發表論文條列如下： 
1. Cheng-Chung Sung and Yi-Sheng Huang, 
“Based on Direct Thrust Control for Linear 
Synchronous Motor Systems,” IEEE Trans. 
Ind. Electron, Vol. 56, no. 5, pp. 1629-1639, 
May 2009. (SCI) (EI) 5.468(1/56) 
2. Yi-Sheng Huang and Cheng-Chung Sung, 
"Implementation of sliding mode controller 
for a linear synchronous motor based on 
direct thrust control theory," Accepted by 
IET Control Theory & Applications. 1.070 
(113/229) 
3. Yi-Sheng Huang and Cheng-Chung Sung, 
“Implementation of a Fast Terminal Sliding 
Mode Controller for Direct Thrust Control 
Systems,” 2009 International Conference 
on Industrial Technology (IEEE ICIT 2009), 
Churchill, Victoria, Australia, Feb. 10-13, 
pp. 95-100, 2009.  
 
參考文獻: 
[1] J. Batelaan, “A Linear Motor Design 
Provides Close and Secure Vehicle 
Separation of Many Transit Vehicles on a 
Guideway,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 
54, no. 3, pp. 1778-1782, June 2007. 
[2] L. N. Tutelea, Myung Chin Kim, M. 
Topor, Ju Lee, I. Boldea, "Linear Permanent 
Magnet Oscillatory Machine: 
Comprehensive Modeling for Transients with 
Validation by 
Experiments," IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., 
vol. 55, no. 2, pp. 492-500, Feb 2008. 
[3] J. Batelaan, “A linear motor design 
provides close and secure vehicle separation 
of many transit vehicles on a guideway,” 
IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 54, no. 3, pp. 
1778-1782, June 2007. 
[4] Y. S. Kung, “Design and Implementation 
of a High-Performance PMLSM Drives 
Using DSP Chip,” IEEE Trans. Ind. 
Electron., vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 1341-1351, 
March 2008. 
[5] M. Boussak, “Implementation and 
experimental investigation of sensorless 
speed control with initial rotor position 
estimation for interior permanent magnet 
linear synchronous motor drive,” IEEE Trans. 
Power Electronics, vol. 20, no. 6, pp. 
1413-1422, Nov. 2005. 
[6] Y. S. Kung, “Design and implementation 
of a high-performance PMLSM drives using 
DSP chip,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 
55, no. 3, pp. 1341-1351, March 2008. 
[7] T. H. Liu, Y. C. Lee and Y. H. Chang, 
“Adaptive controller design for a linear 
motor control system,” IEEE Trans. 
Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol. 40, 
no. 2, pp. 601-616, Apr. 2005. 
[8] G. S. Buja and M. P. Kazmierkowski, 
“Direct torque control of PWM Inverter-fed 
AC Motors-a Survey,” IEEE Trans. Ind. 
Electron., vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 774-757, Aug. 
2007. 
[9] I. Takahashi and T. Noguchi, “A new 
 8
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, VOL. 56, NO. 5, MAY 2009 1629
Based on Direct Thrust Control for Linear
Synchronous Motor Systems
Cheng-Chung Sung, Student Member, IEEE, and Yi-Sheng Huang, Member, IEEE
Abstract—The direct thrust control (DTC) has been utilized as
a general formalism methodology for permanent-magnet linear
synchronous motors (PMLSMs). The imposition control policies
did not seem to handle the inherent flux linkage problems. This
paper will try to propose a solution for the problems. This pa-
per presents a genetic PI parameters generator and a new DTC
policy for the motor control systems. Moreover, this paper also
proposes a new switching table which can assist in selecting the
optimum voltage vectors for the control system. The advantage of
the proposed approach is that the clear presentation of the system
behavior and readiness for implementation. Finally, some results
of the simulation and the experiment both are met as expected. To
the authors’ knowledge, this is the first work that employs DTC to
implement on a real-world PMLSM which is starting at arbitrary
positions and can be allowed moving in the full route.
Index Terms—Direct thrust control (DTC), flux linkage estima-
tion, permanent-magnet linear synchronous motor (PMLSM).
I. INTRODUCTION
P ERMANENT-MAGNET linear synchronous motors(PMLSMs) are widely used in the linear drive system
[1]–[5]. It illuminates the features on driving load directly
without any mechanical transfer links. The main benefits over
its indirect counterpart, such as no backlash and less friction,
high thrust density, and low thermal losses, since its direct drive
design is based on a PMLSM. Linear synchronous machines
with permanent magnets have certain features which warrant a
more detailed analytical approach in the computation of field,
parameters, and forces. These features include large air gaps,
open-wide slots, pole and interloped PM configurations, flat or
tubular configurations, and high normal forces in single-side
flat configurations [6]. The research topic of vector control
has been separated into two categories [5], [7]: 1) The field-
oriented control scheme has been analyzed at first and used
in PMLSM. However, it is sensitive about its parameters and
deal with complicated frame transformation. Nevertheless, its
application cannot be started at any arbitrary positions; thus,
it shall be reset to its initial position when the coming action.
Manuscript received April 6, 2008; revised October 20, 2008. First published
November 11, 2008; current version published April 29, 2009. This work
was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan under Grant NSC
97-2221-E-606-018.
C.-C. Sung is with the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering,
Chung Cheng Institute of Technology, National Defense University, Taoyuan
335, Taiwan (e-mail: song4855@gmail.com).
Y.-S. Huang is with the Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering,
Chung Cheng Institute of Technology, National Defense University, Taoyuan
335, Taiwan (e-mail: yshuang@ndu.edu.tw; huang.ccit@gmail.com).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TIE.2008.2009208
For solving the embarrassment, 2) the direct torque control
is one of the actively researched control policies which are
based on the decoupled control of flux and torque. It needs
not the complex field-orientation block and the inner current
regulation loop [8]–[10]. There are three direct torque control
strategies discussed by pioneers as follows. They are using the
switching table [8], the direct self-control [9], and the space
vector modulation [10]. As previously mentioned, the strategy
of the voltage vector selection using a switching table is widely
researched. The main reason is that it is easy to be implemented
because it does not need the complicated modulation
technique.
The direct torque control has been utilized as a general
formalism methodology for ac rotary motors [11], [12]. It has
been expanding into linear motor drives, named as direct thrust
control (DTC) [13]–[16]. In [14]–[16], the direct torque control
of rotating machines is successfully transferred to a PMLSM.
However, they only use it in the system simulation. Therefore,
the technical skill in the implementation of PMLSMs does not
seem to be performed yet. The reasons state both the problems
of the amplitude of the actual flux linkage and the position angle
of the actual flux linkage are no easy obtained.
Based on the two problems, the flux estimation becomes an
important task for implementation a high-performance motor
drive. In general, there are two methods hired for the flux
estimation: one is to measure the motor currents, and the other
is to measure the voltages of the motor [9], [10]. The drawback
of the current-based method is that the parameters can be
changed according to the rotational speed of the motor. In the
voltage-based method, the mover flux can directly be obtained
from its back electromotive force (EMF) via an integrator. Con-
sidering this factor, the signal of the motor speed is not required.
Therefore, the voltage-based method is much preferred than the
other one [17], [18]. In brief, the general method for estimating
flux linkage is based on the voltage model. Besides, the imple-
mentation of an integrator for motor flux estimations is no easy
task. One can find the problem is exposed in the pioneering
works as follows. A pure integrator has a dc drift problem [19],
[20]. In the past two works, one can understand that a voltage
of the dc component is inevitable when one wants to measure
the motor’s back EMF in practice. This dc component, no
matter how small it is, can finally drive the pure integrator into
saturation. For overcoming the problem, a common solution to
this problem is proposed which is with a first-order low-pass
(LP) filter [21] to replace the pure integrator. Unfortunately,
a large error both in magnitude and in phase angle should be
generated by the LP filter. In particular, the motor runs in a
frequency which is under the cutoff frequency of the filter. In
0278-0046/$25.00 © 2009 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
SUNG AND HUANG: BASED ON DIRECT THRUST CONTROL FOR LINEAR SYNCHRONOUS MOTOR SYSTEMS 1631
Fig. 4. PMLSM control block diagram using DTC policy.
TABLE I
SWITCHING TABLE
vector to obtain as fast a thrust response as possible. The system
performance could be decided by two key parameters (i.e.,
thrust and flux linkage). It becomes an important issue how
to obtain the values of the parameters from the system. In this
paper, the authors utilize a basic control policy to obtain the
both. One of the advantages of using the basic control rule
is that one can easily obtain the errors from the comparison
results. Based on the result, a space voltage vector can be
properly established in a DTC system. For convenience, this
paper shows a block diagram of a DTC scheme for the PMLSM
control system in Fig. 4. The more detail information is as
follows. There are two input signals: one is a thrust command
(Fcmd) and the other is a flux linkage command (ψcmd).
Moreover, it is with two errors: Ferr and ψerr. Notice that the
two errors can be considered as input signals for the two blocks
of the thrust dead zone and the flux hysteresis controller (i.e.,
threshold values σ1 and σ2). The objective of the control is
that an optimum voltage vectors of the switching table (i.e.,
Table I) follows the two errors. Obviously, the space voltage
vector can be determined by the two signals and the flux linkage
position Sθ. Moreover, the corresponding voltage vector can
be chosen from the new switching table for the improvement
of the performance of the system. For example, once an actual
flux linkage (ψcmd) and a thrust (Fcmd) both are smaller than
the reference values, Sψ = 1 and SF = 1 are obtained from
the switching table. It hints the controller needs to increase
its flux linkage and thrust in sector Sθ. In other words, the
voltage vectors Vi (e.g., i = 0, 1, . . . , 7) must be applied. In our
switching table, it includes six effective voltage vectors and two
zero voltage vectors. Moreover, the nonzero vectors are apart
from 60◦ for each other. For controlling the mover flux linkage
amplitude, the voltage vector plane is divided by six regions.
The detail information of the regions is constructed in Fig. 5.
It is well known that the armature currents can be decreased by
Fig. 5. Movement of flux linkage and voltage vectors.
Fig. 6. Modified integrator block diagram based on [22].
the zero voltage and the estimation values of the flux linkage
and thrust will be influenced. As a result, the armature currents
should not be changed if one would wants to last the effective
voltages working time. It hints a good performance could be
obtained if the zero voltage vectors would not be involved in.
C. Modified Flux Linkage Estimation Policy
It becomes an important issue, how to design an estimator
of the flux linkage, when one wants to implement a good
performance motor drive. In general, the mover flux can directly
be obtained from its back EMF via an integrator. Thus, the
mover resistance (R) is the only one involved parameter. For
the mentioned above, the common method for estimating flux
linkage is based on the voltage model. The voltage equation of
a PMLSM in the stationary reference frame can be expressed as
follows: [13], [15], [16]
um = Rim +
dψm
dt
(6)
where R is the mover resistance, um = [uD uQ]T, im =
[iD iQ]T, Ψm = [ΨD ΨQ]T is mover flux linkage vector.
Therefore, the space vector of flux linkage can be obtained from
measured currents and voltages according to (1) and can be
rewritten as
ψm =
∫
(um −Rim)dt =
∫
emdt (7)
where em is the back EMF. Then, the flux linkage amplitude
and angle can be obtained by the following equations:
|ψm| =
√
ψ2D + ψ
2
Q (8)
θ = tan−1(ψQ/ψD) (9)
where |Ψm| and θ are the flux linkage amplitude and position
angle, respectively. Generally, the developed electromagnetic
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
SUNG AND HUANG: BASED ON DIRECT THRUST CONTROL FOR LINEAR SYNCHRONOUS MOTOR SYSTEMS 1633
Fig. 8. Searching procedure of GA.
with a sine wave which is with a foundation frequency and
its high-order harmonics. Moreover, the output signals of the
flux are sine waves which are with the foundational frequency.
Moreover, the amplitude of the flux is limited by the motor
parameter. The main object of this estimator is to obtain the
amplitude of the flux linkage and the value of the flux position.
For this purpose, the proposed estimator structure consists of an
LP filter and a signal feedback block with the correction coeffi-
cient (kϕ). In addition, the correction coefficient is defined that
the amplitude of the correction factor is between the pulse and
the sine wave. According to the waveform theory, the correction
coefficient is determined to π/4 in this paper. Note that a typical
input–output characteristic curve for the saturation nonlinearity
is included in the block diagram. For small input signals, the
output of a saturation element is proportional to the input.
For large signals, the output will not increase proportionally,
and finally for very large input signals, the output is constant.
Moreover, the constant, called limiting level, is equal to L in
this paper.
From the block diagram, the output of the new modified
integrator can be expressed as
y =
1
s + ωc
x + kϕ
ωc
s + ωc
z (11)
TABLE II
PARAMETERS INVOLVED IN THE GENETIC ALGORITHM
TABLE III
PARAMETERS OF THE PMLSM
where ωc is the cutoff frequency of the LP filter and kϕ is the
correction coefficient of the flux estimation of a linear motor.
In general, the block diagram can be considered as a pure
integrator. Because the gain of the feedback loop is close to
zero when the frequency x of the input signals are very much
more than the cutoff frequency (ωc). On the other hand, the
function of the feedback loop can be used to eliminate the dc
drift and flux saturation. Note that the dc drift is generated by
the pure integrator, and the flux saturation is inherent in the
system. It is well known that the saturation element can make
the result of the feedback loop with distortion. However, this
paper does not care about this problem since this feedback loop
is essentially an LP filter. For this reason, the saturation element
is kept in our control system. Moreover, the value of the actual
flux amplitude should be assigned to the limiting level (L).
As a result, we can conclude that the new modified integrator
may obtain a better performance than the prior research [22]
if a proper compensator is designed. Moreover, the inherent
problems of the system should be eliminated. In the next
paragraph, the experiment performances of the different control
policies should be discussed.
Fig. 7 shows the different performances of the controlled
motor system. One can see the performance of the conventional
method in Fig. 7(a) and (b). It is hardly to estimate both the am-
plitude and the position angle of the flux linkage correctly due
to without a correction factor. The influence of the correction
factor on voltage vectors vibrated. This situation is formed by
a switching table cannot produce the correct voltage vectors for
the motor system. Nevertheless, the unsuitable voltage vectors
can cause the greater position errors are generated. Even it will
make the system unstable. Fig. 7(c) and (d) shows the better
performance of the controlled motor system. In this, controlled
system is with the correction factor. In Fig. 7(c), one can point
out the problem of the flux linkage had improved. Hence, one
can obtain the amplitude and the position angle of the flux
linkage correctly. Moreover, one can see the linear response
which is performed by the correctness of the switching table
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
SUNG AND HUANG: BASED ON DIRECT THRUST CONTROL FOR LINEAR SYNCHRONOUS MOTOR SYSTEMS 1635
Fig. 11. (a) Position tracking (xp) performances. (b) Position angle (θ) performances. (c) Position tracking error (ed).
difficult search, optimization, and machine-learning problems
that have previously resisted automated solution. They can
solve hard problems quickly and reliably, are easy to interface
to existing simulations and models, are extensible, and are
easy to hybridize. For concrete exposition, the discussion is lim-
ited to a simple GA that processes a finite population of fixed-
length / binary strings. A simple GA consists of three operators:
selection, crossover, and mutation. Selection is the survival of
the fittest within the GA. The key notion is to give preference
to better individuals. Of course, for selection the function, there
must be some way of determining what is good. This evaluation
can come from a formal objective function, or it can come from
the subjective judgment of a human observer. The intended
advantage of the proposed algorithm is that GA will not stay in
a local minimum of the fitness function. The main reason is that
it does not use the gradient of the function to find the solution.
For the above mentioned, GA can be used to search the
optimization parameters of the control system automatically.
First, it is necessary to decide the code string length, initial
population size, numbers of generation, and fitness function.
The main object of this paper is to efficiently choose the ap-
propriate parameters based on fitness function by evolutionary
computing paradigm. This paper presents a way to find a set
of optimal PI parameters, which includes both position and
velocity controls, to meet our system performance index. For
this purpose, the sum of square error
∑
e2d, ed = xpcmd − xp,
where xpcmd is the input signal of the system, xp the output and
ed the position error. As a result, the fitness function is decided
as (12). The reason is that the maximal of the fitness should
be found during the GA in searching procedure. The fitness
function states as (12), and the parameters searching procedure
is shown in Fig. 8
fitness function = 1
1 +
∑
e2d
. (12)
IV. SIMULATIONS
The performance of the proposed integration algorithms is
investigated by Matlab/Simulink. First, an illuminated GA is
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
SUNG AND HUANG: BASED ON DIRECT THRUST CONTROL FOR LINEAR SYNCHRONOUS MOTOR SYSTEMS 1637
Fig. 14. (a) Position (xp) performances with 4-kg load. (b) Position tracking error (ed) with 4-kg load.
Fig. 15. Position (xp) performances with 4-kg load.
system. The reason is the motor is starting at phase
A position. It hints us the initial state of the motor
is set in the phase A.
Case II: The motor is starting at phase B, i.e., it states the
motor is starting at −120◦. Fig. 11(c) shows the
result of the experiment. One can see the transient
state is with a large position tracking error (i.e.,
Max. 0.7 cm). However, the transient state should
be converged in a short time. The reason is the
switching table cannot work normally in the initial
time. In fact, the error is generated by the inherent
in the motor system. It does not seem to be elim-
inated if one wants it can be started at arbitrary
position.
Case III: The motor is with a 4-kg loading and is starting at
phase C, i.e., it states the motor is starting at 120◦.
Fig. 14(b) shows the result of the experiment. There is a
maximal position tracking error is 0.92 cm. The explanation
of the performance is the same as Case II.
Fig. 16. Position (xp) performances with 4-kg load.
Based on the three cases discussed, the transient state with
the errors can be eliminated if the motor is limited starting at
phase A. It is important to point that the steady state error is
less than 50 μm whatever the motor system is starting at phases
A, B, or C. Moreover, also the steady state error does not be
influenced by the loading is with or not.
Next, the authors also consider the 4-kg load condition, and
the experimental results are shown in Figs. 14–16. Based on
the aforementioned experimental results, the trace of the output
response is almost following the input command whatever the
system is with/without the loading. For the above discussion,
the performance seems to be more robust under the proposed
control policy. For demonstrating the performance of the pro-
posed policy, the authors employ a fixed high-speed motion
mode (i.e., 10 cm/s) and a variable-speed motion mode (i.e.,
5 and 1.5 cm/s) in the motor system. The experimental results
are shown in Fig. 17. The amplitude and the position angle
of the flux linkage are correctly estimated (i.e., Fig. 18) under
the variable speed motion controlled mode. It hints our control
policy can be applied in the high-speed motion mode and the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
SUNG AND HUANG: BASED ON DIRECT THRUST CONTROL FOR LINEAR SYNCHRONOUS MOTOR SYSTEMS 1639
[21] H. Lu, W. Yang, Y. Xu, and Z. Chen, “Position sensorless control of
surface-mounted PMLSM with a novel starting method,” in Proc. Int.
Acquisition, 2006, pp. 1174–1178.
[22] J. Hu and B. Wu, “New integration algorithms for estimating motor flux
over a wide speed range,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol. 13, no. 5,
pp. 969–977, Sep. 1998.
[23] J. H. Holland, Adaptation in Natural and Artificial Systems: An Intro-
duction Analysis With Applications to Biology, Control and Artificial
Intelligence. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1992.
[24] D. E. Goldberg, Genetic Algorithms in Searching, Optimization, and
Machine Learning. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1989.
[25] R. J. Wai and K. H. Su, “Supervisory control for linear piezoelectric
ceramic motor drive using genetic algorithm,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron.,
vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 657–673, Apr. 2006.
[26] K. S. Low and T. S. Wong, “A multiobjective genetic algorithm for
optimizing the performance of hard drive motion control system,” IEEE
Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 54, no. 3, pp. 1716–1725, Jun. 2007.
[27] T. Senjyu, D. Hayashi, N. Urasaki, and T. Funabashi, “Optimum con-
figuration for renewable generating systems in residence using genetic
algorithm,” IEEE Trans. Energy Convers., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 459–466,
Jun. 2006.
[28] T. Suwa and H. Hadim, “Multidisciplinary electronic package design and
optimization methodology based on genetic algorithm,” IEEE Trans. Adv.
Packag., vol. 30, no. 3, pp. 402–410, Aug. 2007.
[29] J. Yang, S. Wang, W. Yu, and L. Yang, “Implementation on adaptive
sliding mode position controller of permanent magnet linear synchronous
motor,” in Proc. ICEMS, 2007, pp. 468–471.
Cheng-Chung Sung (S’08) was born in Taoyuan,
Taiwan, in 1959. He received the B.S. degree in
electronic engineering from National Taiwan Ocean
Institute of Technology, Keelung, Taiwan, in 1981,
and the M.S. degree in electronic engineering from
National Central University, Taoyuan, Taiwan, in
1990. Since 2005, he has been working toward the
Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering at the National
Defense University, Taiwan.
He is also currently an Instructor with the De-
partment of Computer Science and Communication
Engineering, Army Academy, Jungli, Taiwan. His research interests include
motor drives, robust control, and intelligent control.
Yi-Sheng Huang (M’05) received the B.S. degree in
automatic control engineering from Feng Chia Uni-
versity, Taichung, Taiwan, in 1989, the M.S. degree
in electronic engineering from Chung Yuan Christian
University, Chung Li, Taiwan, in 1991, and the
Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from National
Taiwan University of Science and Technology,
Taipei, Taiwan, in 2001.
He was an Associate Professor with the Depart-
ment of Aeronautical Engineering, Chung Cheng
Institute of Technology (CCIT), National Defense
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. He is currently a Full Professor with the De-
partment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, CCIT, National Defense
University. His research interests include discrete-event systems, Petri nets,
computer-integrated manufacturing, automation, reactive systems, air traffic
control, intelligent transport systems, and motor controls.
Dr. Huang has been serving as a Reviewer for the IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS—PARTS A AND C and IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING, IET Con-
trol Theory and Applications, Automatica, International Journal of Production
Research, and The Computer Journal.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:22 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
addressed in [14–16]. In [14, 15], it is shown that a pure
integrator has DC drift and initial value problems. From
the two approaches, it is clear that the voltage of the DC
component has to be known if one wants to measure the
back emf of the motor in practice. This DC component,
no matter how small it is, can ultimately drive the pure
integrator into saturation. To overcome this problem, a
solution has been proposed – replace the pure integrator
with a ﬁrst-order low-pass (LP) ﬁlter [16]. Unfortunately, a
crucial error both in magnitude and in phase angle is
generated by the LP ﬁlter. In this paper, we attempt to
solve the ﬂux estimation problems in a real PMLSM. For
this purpose, a modiﬁed integrator for obtaining both
actual ﬂux and actual thrust is proposed and a closed-loop
control system can be realised. By using our control
method, high-performance motor drive can be obtained.
Further, it is well known that the accuracy of PMLSM
positioning control is easily affected by parameter variations
and load disturbances. Reducing these factors quickly and
directly is a very important task. For achieving high-
accuracy tracking in a high-performance position control
system, a sophisticated control strategy is often required.
It is well known that the sliding mode control
(SMC) is insensitive in the presence of external
uncertainties and disturbances, particularly, to the so-called
matched uncertainties/disturbances. Hence, the robustness
properties of SMC can make this approach an intensive,
popular and suitable method for controlled motor systems.
The practical implementation and theoretical development
of various SMC approaches have been investigated
previously [17–20]. Consequently, the SMC has been
widely used in the position/speed control of the motor drives
[21–23]. Here, the dynamic property of the systems can be
described in two phases: reaching phase and sliding phase.
An SMC is designed such that the system trajectories reach
a sliding phase in ﬁnite time and tend to an equilibrium
point along this surface [18]. Moreover, the closed-loop
dynamics is completely governed by the sliding manifold as
long as the system trajectories remain on this surface.
This paper proposes a new control method that combines a
modiﬁed DTC with the SMC method to implement
position control for PMLSMs. In this control method, we
have attempted to decrease the inﬂuence of the parameter
variations and load disturbances. Our experimental results
show that the accuracy of the position control for
PMLSMs has been improved. To our knowledge, this is
the ﬁrst work to combine a DTC method with the SMC
method for implementing a position control for a real-
world PMLSM.
The rest of the paper is organised as follows. A modiﬁed
ﬂux estimation algorithm of DTC for a PMLSM control
system is proposed in Section 2. The SMC method for a
PMLSM is presented in Section 3. The simulation and
experimental results are given in Section 4. Finally, Section
5 presents the conclusions.
2 DTC for real PMLSM control
systems
A real PMLSM controlled by DTC policy is stated in this
section. The PMLSM, with the type of LM210-2 brushless
linear motor, is produced by TRILOGY. The PMLSM
comprises a long stationary tubular, called ‘secondary’, that is
supported at both ends, housing a sequence of neodymium–
iron–boron (NdFeB) permanent magnet with guidance rail
and linear scale, and a full stroke (0–30 cm) mover, called
‘primary’, which contains the core armature winding and
Hall sensing elements. The electromagnetic thrust is
produced by the interaction between the secondary NdFeB
magnet and magnetic ﬁeld of ac windings included in the
primary and driven by a current-controlled pulse-width-
modulation voltage source inverter. The machine structure
of the PMLSM is shown in Fig. 1.
2.1 Mathematical model of PMLSMs
The mathematical analysis of PMLSMs is a key factor in the
development of motor control systems. In general,
the mathematical model of a linear motor is derived from
the structural parameters of a rotating motor. In a linear
motor, when the stator of a rotating motor is considered
the mover, the d–q axis theory is used for the analysis. For
convenience, the more detailed information of the space
relations is constructed in Fig. 2.
The coordinate axes are the three-phase windings (as, bs,
cs) axis, rotating d–q axis and stationary (D, Q) axis. Note
that ve represents the rotor electrical angular speed and ue
represents an angle between d-axis and winding as. The
machine model of the PMLSM can be described in a
synchronous rotating reference frame as follows [3, 7, 24]
ud ¼ Rmid þ pld  velq (1)
ud ¼ Rmid þ plq  veld (2)
where p denotes the differential operator
ld ¼ Ld id þ lF (3)
Figure 1 Mechanical structure of PMLSM
IET Control Theory Appl., 2010, Vol. 4, Iss. 3, pp. 326–338 327
doi: 10.1049/iet-cta.2008.0485 & The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2010
www.ietdl.org
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Central University. Downloaded on June 01,2010 at 02:41:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
optimum voltage vector can provide a suitable voltage vector
(in time) to the controlled motor system. In this paper, six
effective voltage vectors – V1 (100), V2 (110), V3 (010), V4
(011), V5 (001) and V6 (101) – and two zero voltage
vectors – V0 (000) and V7 (111) – have been considered.
The non-zero vectors are apart from each other by 608.
Moreover, their effects on the ﬂux linkage and thrust vary
with the resting positions of the motor. Detailed
information on the voltage vectors is listed in the switching
table (i.e. Table 2). Based on the experimental results, it can
be said that the ﬂux linkages and thrusts can be controlled
by the switching table. It is noteworthy that the difference
between any two close voltage vectors is only of one bit.
Therefore the switching table can increase/decrease the
voltage vector by only changing one bit. Further, the
changing voltage vector has a minimum switching frequency
at which the voltage is called the optimal voltage vector [5].
In this manner, our motor-controlled system can obtain a
thrust response in the minimum possible time. Moreover,
the thrust ripple can be reduced.
The optimum voltage vector can be determined by using SF,
Sl and Su listed in the switching table. Further, the
corresponding voltage vectors (e.g. Vi, i ¼ 0, 1, . . .., 7) can
be chosen from the switching table constructed for the
improvement of the system performance. For example, if the
values of the actual ﬂux linkage (jlmj) and thrust (Fe) are
smaller than the reference values, from Table 2, Sl ¼ 1 and
SF ¼ 1. These values of Sl and SF indicate that the
controller has to increase its ﬂux linkage and thrust in sector
Su. On the other hand, Sa, Sb and Sc represent the states of
the inverter switching. This is shown in greater detail in Fig. 4.
The phase voltages of the inverter output are as follows
Van ¼
(2Sa  Sb  Sc)Vdc
3
ð8Þ
Vbn ¼
(2Sb  Sa  Sc)Vdc
3
ð9Þ
Vcn ¼
(2Sc  Sa  Sb)Vdc
3
ð10Þ
where Vdc is the DC link voltage.
2.3 Modiﬁed ﬂux linkage estimation
method
The problem of ﬂux estimation is an important one for the
implementation of a high-performance motor drive.
Typically, the terminal voltage and terminal current are
measured in order to obtain the ﬂux. The value of the ﬂux is
then able to provide the data for the decoupling control
[14]. However, there are two problems when the controller
is used with the DTC method for PMLSM control systems:
during the estimation of the ﬂux linkage, the DC drift is
signiﬁcantly affected by the offset error, and the variation in
mover resistance causes errors [25]. In the voltage-based
method, the voltage equation of a PMLSM in the stationary
reference frame can be expressed as follows [4, 6, 26]
lm ¼
ð
(um  Rmim) dt ¼
ð
em dt (11)
where um ¼ [uD uQ]T, im ¼ [iD iQ]T, lm¼ [lD lQ]T is the ﬂux
linkage vector and em is the back emf. The ﬂux linkage
amplitude and angular position can then be obtained by
using the following equations
jlmj ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
l2D þ l2Q
q
(12)
u ¼ tan1 lQ
lD
 
(13)
where jlmj and u are the ﬂux linkage amplitude and angular
position, respectively. Note that the PMLSM naturally
suffers from ‘end effect’ because the length of the core is
ﬁnite; this problem does not exist in rotating machines [5].
It can be seen that the end effect affects the thrust
Table 2 Switching table
Sl SF S1 (230 to 308) S2 (30–908) S3 (90–1508) S4 (150–1808)
(2180 to 21508)
S5 (2150 to 2908) S6 (290 to 2308)
" 1 " 1 V2 (110) V3 (010) V4 (011) V5 (001) V6 (101) V1 (100)
0 V0 (111) V7 (000) V0 (111) V7 (000) V0 (111) V7 (000)
# 21 V6 (101) V1 (100) V2 (110) V3 (010) V4 (011) V5 (001)
# 0 " 1 V3 (010) V4 (011) V5 (001) V6 (101) V1 (100) V2 (110)
0 V7 (000) V0 (111) V7 (000) V0 (111) V7 (000) V0 (111)
# 21 V5 (001) V6 (101) V1 (100) V2 (110) V3 (010) V4 (011)
Figure 4 Basic inverter drive system
IET Control Theory Appl., 2010, Vol. 4, Iss. 3, pp. 326–338 329
doi: 10.1049/iet-cta.2008.0485 & The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2010
www.ietdl.org
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Central University. Downloaded on June 01,2010 at 02:41:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figs. 6a and b show the system performances of the old
control method [27] and our method, respectively; the
former does not use the correction coefﬁcient kw, whereas
the latter does. Note that both performances are shown
with the same position input – a triangular signal moving
6 cm with a velocity of 6 cm/s. For convenience, all the
experimental results of the motor controlled system are
normalised. For example, the normalised position output
(xp) is (xp/6.096 cm), angle theta is (u/180 degrees) and
the ﬂux linkage ﬂux D is (lD/0.425 Wb). Fig. 6a reveals
the disadvantages of the conventional method [27]. From
our experimental results, we conclude that the conventional
method cannot estimate both the amplitude and the
angular position of the ﬂux linkage. The main reason for
this is the absence of the correction factor. This suggests
that the correct voltage vectors cannot be provided (in
time) by the switching table for the motor controlled
system. Nevertheless, the unsuitable voltage vectors increase
the errors, thereby making the system unstable. Fig. 6b
shows that the problem of ﬂux linkage is improved by the
correction factor. The amplitude and angular position of
the ﬂux linkage can be obtained correctly by using our
modiﬁed ﬂux linkage estimator. Based on the experimental
results, it can be said that the new angular position u is
more linear, and the new ﬂux linkage lD has less distortion
than the old one. In addition, the position-tracking
performance of the new method is better than that of the
old one. As a result, we conclude that the performance of
our control method is better than that proposed in the
prior work [27].
3 Sliding mode controller design
The concept of SMC is based on the introduction of a
‘customised’ function named the sliding function, which
can be properly chosen by the designer [29, 30]. As soon
as the properly designed sliding function becomes equal to
zero, the sliding manifold is established. The proper design
of the sliding function yields a suitable closed-loop system
performance while the system’s trajectories belong to the
sliding manifold. SMC aims to steer the system trajectory
to the properly chosen sliding manifold and then maintain
subsequent motions on the surface by means of control.
The main features of the sliding mode include its
insensitivity to external and internal disturbances, which is
matched by control, ultimate accuracy and ﬁnite time
reaching of the transient. The SMC design approach
consists of two components. The ﬁrst involves the design
of a sliding function so that the system motion on the
sliding manifold (termed the sliding phase) satisﬁes
the design speciﬁcations. The second is concerned with the
selection of a control law. This makes the sliding manifold
attractive to the system state in the presence of external and
internal disturbances/uncertainties.
Deﬁnition 1(matching conditions [31, 32]): Consider
the system
_x ¼ Axþ Buþ f (t, x) (17)
where x [ Rn is the state vector, A [ Rnn, B [ Rnm and
u [ Rm1 are the control inputs and f (t, x) [ Rn1 is the
disturbance term. If there exists g(t, x) [ Rn1 such that
f (t, x) ¼ Bg(t, x), n . m and B has the full rank, (17)
meets the demands of matching conditions.
The design process for matching the conditions in a real
linear motor control system is now introduced. The mover
electromagnetic thrust of the PMLSM can be described in
Fig. 7.
Consider the mover dynamic equation of the PMLSM
Fe ¼ M €xp þD_xp þ FL (18)
Here, xp is the position output and kFLk  F is the bounded
external uncertainties and disturbance term that may
Figure 6 Comparison between the old and new algorithms
a System performance of the old ﬂux estimate algorithm [27]
b Performance of a new ﬂux estimate algorithm
IET Control Theory Appl., 2010, Vol. 4, Iss. 3, pp. 326–338 331
doi: 10.1049/iet-cta.2008.0485 & The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2010
www.ietdl.org
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Central University. Downloaded on June 01,2010 at 02:41:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
lower steady-state precision and reduced robustness properties.
In this paper, we substitute the sign function with a sat
function to weaken the chattering. The sat function is
deﬁned as
sat(s, d ) ¼
sign(s), jsj  d
s
d
, jsj , d
(
(28)
where d is a small positive constant that deﬁnes a boundary
layer. A large boundary layer leads to a larger steady-state
error whereas a too small boundary layer leads to high-
frequency switching. Therefore the designer must select
the value of d carefully. Unfortunately, no simple method
exists to obtain the parameters for the SMC.
Conventionally, a trial-and-error method has been used to
select the parameters of a motor control system.
Simulations have to be conducted and examined to judge
whether the intended aims are achieved; hence, the
designer ﬁnds it difﬁcult to obtain precise parameters.
Further, a long time is wasted in many attempts. Hence,
the selection of the parameters complicates the controller
design. Therefore methods to ﬁnd a parameter vector
P ¼ [1, k, c, d ] such that the sliding mode controller with
a better performance can be obtained is an important
issue. In the next section, an optimisation method based
on gradient descent algorithm is introduced to determine
the parameters of the SMC controller.
4 Simulation and experimental
results
The non-linear control design (NCD) toolbox was
investigated by using Matlab/Simulink, which provides a
Table 4 Parameter values of the PMLSM
Parameter Value
(unit)
Parameter Value (unit)
mover mass 1.97 (kg) phase
winding
resistance
11.8/3 (V)
friction factor 5.2982
(N/(m/s)
inductance 4.8/3(mH)
permanent
magnet ﬂux
linkage
0.4849
(Wb)
number of
pole pairs
1
pole pitch 0.06096
(m)
DC voltage
Vdc
280 (V)
Table 3 Related parameters of the DTC controller
Parameter Value
(unit)
Parameter Value
(unit)
thrust threshold
value r1
0.5 ﬂux hysteretic
value r2
0.025
cutoff
frequency vc
100 (Hz) ﬂux linkage
command (lcmd)
0.4
(Wb)
Figure 8 Simulation results of the system position response
a Simulation results of the SMC and PI (xp)
b Simulation results of the SMC and PI (e1)
c Simulation result of the error state phase trajectory (s)
IET Control Theory Appl., 2010, Vol. 4, Iss. 3, pp. 326–338 333
doi: 10.1049/iet-cta.2008.0485 & The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2010
www.ietdl.org
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Central University. Downloaded on June 01,2010 at 02:41:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
quadratic programming (SQP) method [33, 35]. In this
method, a quadratic programming (QP) problem is solved at
each iteration. In addition, the routine updates an estimate
of the Hessian of the Lagrangian [35, 36]. As a result, the
NCD toolbox is able to provide a graphical user interface
(GUI) to assist in time-domain-based control design.
Hence, in this paper, a NCD toolbox is used to obtain the
vector P ¼ [1, k, c, d] for the SMC controller. In the
simulation, we tune parameters P to meet time-domain
performance requirements under a unit step signal input
that is deﬁned as follows: the rise-time tr  0.2 s, the
settle-time ts  0.5 s and the overshoot  5%. We hope
that the parameter vector P ¼ [1, k, c, d] will settle
between the lower and upper bounds (i.e. [1, 1, 1, 0] and
[500, 500, 500, 0.1]). For enhancing the system
performance of the robust control method, other
parameters of uncertainty bounds can be used; for this
purpose, the uncertain parameters of the control motor are
allowed to have variations within a range of +20%. The
total mass (M ) is acceptable if it lies between the nominal
mass and ﬁve times the nominal mass. Finally, the criterion
of the desired system can be met by the suitable parameter
vector P ¼ [13.5, 3.72, 121, 0.01].
4.1 Simulation results
The performance of the proposed integration algorithms is
investigated by using Matlab/Simulink. For this simulation,
controller data are required. The SMC parameters are
obtained by NCD and the information on the PMLSM
parameters are given in Tables 3 and 4. For a comparison of
the system performance, a reference model based on the
FOC policy for a PMLSM [37] is used. In this study, two
PI controllers were used to serve the position and velocity
control, respectively. Under the NCD environment, we give
the same time-domain speciﬁcation to both the controllers.
In summary, from the simulations, we ﬁnd the system
performance of our DTC method to be better than that of
the old one. Fig. 8 shows this in detail. The simulated
results of the motor systems under the ramp input signal
with slope 1 cm/0.1 s are shown in Fig. 9. Note that
the input-position-command tracking performance of the
controlled system can be reached in 0.015 and 0.06 s by the
DTC and FOC methods, respectively. This indicates that
the system response of the DTC method is faster than that
of the FOC method. In addition, we have compared the
two control methods (i.e. SMC and PI) based on the DTC
method. This reference model employs a PI controller and a
DTC method, which has been proposed in [38]. The PI
parameters are obtained by a simple genetic algorithm (GA)
to minimise the performance index (i.e. optimisation
criterion). Therefore the sum of square error (SSE), which is
deﬁned as
P
e21, is selected by us as a performance index.
The simulated results of the motor system with a triangular-
wave input signal (slope of the rising ramp ¼ 6 and the
descending ramp ¼ –6) are shown in Figs. 8a and b.
The position-tracking error is obviously less than 20 mm
Figure 11 Computer controlled PMLSM servo drive system
Figure 12 Experimental results of position response with
different loadings
a Experimental results of position response at nominal mass (xp)
b Experimental results of position response at ﬁve times nominal
mass (xp)
IET Control Theory Appl., 2010, Vol. 4, Iss. 3, pp. 326–338 335
doi: 10.1049/iet-cta.2008.0485 & The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2010
www.ietdl.org
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Central University. Downloaded on June 01,2010 at 02:41:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
nominal case, implies not loading anyweight on themover.Note
that the weight of the mover is 1.97 kg. Hence, the total mass
(about 9.97 kg) is more than ﬁve times the nominal mass. In
fact, 8 kg is the full load condition in our motor system. Based
on this experimental result, our system performance appears to
demonstrate more robustness than the one in the previous
work [4]. For convenience, Figs. 12a and b show the system
responses of the nominal case and the parameter variation case,
respectively. Fig. 12a shows that the entire system response
almost meets the simulation result. Fig. 12b shows that the
entire system response when loaded is four times the nominal
mass case. Note that the transient state suffers very slight
disturbance when the parameter variation is drastic. In
addition, the trace of the output response almost meets the
input command. The system performance of the SMC
method and the PI method [39] is discussed in this paper.
Considering the comparison results, two cases have been
considered in the experimental studies. In Case I, that is the
parameter variation case, a mass (about 4 kg) is added to the
mass of the mover. Note that loading with mass of 8 kg cannot
work well in our system if only the PI method is used. Case II
is the nominal case, that is without any loading. The detailed
experimental results are shown in Figs. 13a–d. Figs. 13a and c
show the system responses of both cases. Figs. 13b and d focus
on the position-tracking error performance of the two cases. It
is found that the transient state errors for the two cases with
the SMC method have maximum values of 0.14 and 0.18 cm,
respectively. In contrast, the transient state errors for the two
cases with the PI method have maximum values of 0.68 and
1.18 cm, respectively. Furthermore, the steady-state errors for
the two cases with the SMC method are both less than
25 mm. However, the steady-state errors of the PI method
almost reach 80 mm. Obviously, the SMC method is more
robust than the PI method. Nevertheless, a large position-
tracking error still exists in the transient state irrespective of the
control method. This is mainly because the starting position of
the controlled motor cannot be identiﬁed by the motor drive.
This suggests that a suitable voltage vector cannot be provided
correctly by the switch table for the drive system in the initial
state. Finally, in summary, our proposed approach can thus be
applied to real motor systems.
5 Conclusions
This paper presents an NCD-based SMC controller, a DTC
method and a real PMLSM control system. The SMC
parameters of the real motor are automatically generated by
an NCD optimisation algorithm. For obtaining the actual
thrust, a modiﬁed integrator has been proposed, which is
an improvement of a prior work [27]. It has been
experimentally demonstrated that the performance of the
new method is better than that of the previously proposed
one [27]. The advantage of the proposed approach is that
the system behaviour can be tracked easily. Moreover, the
control system is robust with regard to parameter variations
and load disturbances. Our method gives a fast response
and more accurate performance. It is noteworthy that our
method also solves for the inherent ﬂux linkage problems.
From the simulation and experimental results, it can be
concluded that our approach can be applied to position
tracking in an actual PMLSM.
6 Acknowledgment
This work was supported by the National Science Council of
Taiwan, R.O.C., under Grant NSC 97-2221-E-606-018.
7 References
[1] ZHU Y.W., KIM D.S., MOON J.W., CHO Y.H.: ‘Analysis of permanent
magnet linear synchronous motor for advanced control’,
Int. J. Appl. Electromagn. Mech., 2008, 28, pp. 283–289
[2] LIU X., YE Y.Y., ZHENG Z., LU Q.F.: ‘Magnetic ﬁeld and
performance analysis of a tubular permanent magnet
linear synchronous motor applied in elevator door
system’, J. Zhejiang Univ. Sci. A, 2008, 9, (4), pp. 572–576
[3] LIN F.J., CHOU P.H., KUNG Y.S.: ‘Robust fuzzy neural network
controller with nonlinear disturbance observer for two-axis
motion control system’, IET Control Theory Appl., 2008, 2,
(2), pp. 151–167
[4] LIN F.J., SHYU K.K., LIN C.H.: ‘Incremental motion control of
linear synchronous motor’, IEEE Trans. Aerosp. Electron.
Syst., 2002, 38, (3), pp. 1011–1022
[5] KWON B., WOO K., KIM S.: ‘Finite element analysis of direct
thrust-controlled linear induction motor’, IEEE Trans.
Magn., 1999, 35, pp. 1306–1309
[6] LIJUN Z., JIEFAN C., JUNZHU W., HEMIN W., LILI J.: ‘Research on
the parameters identiﬁcation of direct thrust control system
using wavelet transform’. Proc. Int. Conf. on Intelligent
Systems Design and Applications, October 2006, pp. 132–136
[7] BUJA G.S., KAZMIERKOWSKI M.P.: ‘Direct torque control of
PWM inverter-fed AC motors – a survey’, IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron., 2007, 51, pp. 744–757
[8] BONNET F., VIDAL P.E., MARIA P.D.: ‘Dual direct torque control
of doubly fed induction machine’, IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron.,
2007, 54, (5), pp. 2482–2490
[9] KASMIEH T.: ‘Adaptive stator ﬂux estimator for the
induction machine direct torque control’. Int. Symp. on
Power Electron. Electr. Drives Autom. Motion, Ischia, Italy,
11–13 June 2008, pp. 1239–1241
[10] SCHAUDER C.: ‘Adaptive speed identiﬁcation for vector
control of induction motors without rational transducers’,
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., 1992, 28, pp. 1054–1061
[11] TAKAHASHI I.: ‘Decoupling control of thrust and attractive
force of a LIM using space vector controlled inverter’, IEEE
Trans. Ind. Appl., 2005, 29, pp. 161–167
IET Control Theory Appl., 2010, Vol. 4, Iss. 3, pp. 326–338 337
doi: 10.1049/iet-cta.2008.0485 & The Institution of Engineering and Technology 2010
www.ietdl.org
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Central University. Downloaded on June 01,2010 at 02:41:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Implementation of a Fast Terminal Sliding Mode  
Controller for Direct Thrust Control Systems 
 
Yi-Sheng Huanga and Cheng-Chung Sungb 
a, bDepartment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, National Defense University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
bDepartment of Computer Science and Communication Engineering, Army Academy, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
aE-mail: yshuang@ndu.edu.tw; bE-mail: song4485@gmail.com 
 
 
Abstract- This paper presents a new methodology to implement a 
permanent magnet linear synchronous motor. The proposed method 
is a combination way which is combined the fast terminal sliding 
mode with the direct thrust control method.  The intended advantage 
of the proposed method is that the chattering phenomenon can be 
reduced and/or removed.  To our knowledge, the inherent flux 
linkage problems of permanent magnet linear synchronous motors 
did not seem to be handled by the pioneer contributions.  For 
overcoming the problems, a new estimator algorithm is used to get 
the accurate flux linkage value.  Finally, some experimental results 
are met as expected. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Linear motor drives equipment directly and does not need 
any mechanical coupling like belts, gears, screws or 
crankshafts, etc.  System efficiency with linear motor driving 
directly and its control circuits is higher than other rotating 
driving systems, even higher positioning precision.  Therefore, 
permanent magnet linear synchronous motors (PMLSMs) are 
widely used in industry drive areas of linear transmission or 
precision servo control [1-3].  In recent years, scientist and 
technologist are trying to replace rotating motor with linear 
motor in numerical control machining center or more axes 
cooperation system because of its efficiency and controlled 
precision by advanced control strategies.  The direct torque 
control has been utilized as a general formalism methodology 
for AC rotary motors [4-5].  It has been expanding into linear 
motor drives, named as direct thrust control (DTC) [6-7].  
However, the technical skill in the implementation of 
PMLSMs does not seem to be performed yet.  The reasons 
state both the problems of the amplitude of the actual flux 
linkage and the position angle of the actual flux linkage are 
no easy obtained.  For overcoming the problems, the paper 
proposes a new estimator algorithm to obtain both.  However, 
it is a well-known that PMLSM positioning accuracy is 
greatly affected by parameter variations and load disturbances.  
Furthermore, how to reduce these factors quickly and directly 
is a very important issue. 
Sliding-mode control works on the concept of designing a 
control so as to drive the system states to the so called sliding 
manifold.  One of the major advantages of sliding-mode 
control is that when the system states are on the sliding 
manifold, the closed-loop system behavior is robust to certain 
internal parameter variations and external disturbances [8-10].  
In general, sliding manifolds are chosen to be linear 
hyperplane named linear sliding mode (LSM).  Such 
hyperplane guarantees asymptotic stability of the system in 
the sliding mode.  That is, the system states will reach the 
equilibrium in infinite time.  Nevertheless, tracking error will 
no converge to zero in finite time in any case.  Terminal  
sliding-mode  (TSM)  control  [11]  aims  at  designing a  
sliding-mode  control  strategy  that  would  guarantee  a  
finite  time convergence to the origin.  This is accomplished 
by using a nonlinear sliding line which results in finite time 
convergence. And also [12-14] have been used successfully.  
Although this method has proved successfully, there is a 
series lack of effective or tractable design methods to choose 
the suitable parameters.  Comparison with LSM policy, the 
TSM policy does not seem to provide the same convergent 
performance when the system state is far away from the 
equilibrium.  The main reason is that the convergent time of 
the LSM is shorter than the TSM when the system state is 
close the equilibrium.  On the other hand, the discontinuity 
phase is a major contributor to the chattering behaviors. 
In this paper, we propose a fast terminal sliding mode 
(FTSM) controller that can drive the system to reach the 
nonlinear switching manifold in the reaching phase.  It is 
worthy to notice that LSM and TSM control technologies are 
used to improve the precision of the control and deliver a fast 
time response, respectively.  Moreover, the chattering 
phenomenon can be reduced and/or removed in the reaching 
phase and sliding phase under our controller. 
This paper is organized as follows.  A modified flux 
linkage estimation policy is introduced in section II.  A fast 
terminal sliding mode controller is presented in section III.  
The simulation results are depicted in section IV.  Finally, 
some conclusions are given in section V. 
 
II. A MODIFIED FLUX LINKAGE ESTIMATION POLICY  
A control policy is proposed which is insensitive of rotor 
parameters in this paper.  And also the implementation of the 
control policy is completely without the complicated rotating 
frame transform.  For convenience, a block diagram of a 
direct thrust control scheme for the PMLSM control system is 
depicted in Fig. 1.  It is worthy to point that DTC allows a 
controller to control the decoupled of electromagnetic thrust 
and the flux magnitude, respectively.  The main advantages 
of the DTC are as follows: 1) DTC has a simple and robust 
control structure; 2) DTC with a switching table provides 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:19 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3(a) shows the performance of the control policy [20] 
is without the correction coefficient kϕ.  And Fig. 3(b) is with 
kϕ.  Notice that both the performances are under controlled by 
the same position command.  In the two examples, a 
triangular reference input is required for moving 1τ (cm) with 
velocity 1τ/s (cm/sec).  It is worthy to notice that the result 
(i.e., Fig. 3(b)) is obtained under our modified integrator. It 
hints the suitable voltage vectors are selected successfully 
from the switching table by our control algorithm.  For 
convenience, all experimental results of the motor are 
normalized.  For instance, the position output (xp) is 
normalized as xp / 6 cm, the angle theta = (θ/180) degree and 
the flux linkage fluxD = FD / 0.3Wb.     Comparing the two 
performances (i.e., Fig. 3(a) and Fig. 3(b)), it is easy to point 
out that the new position angle θ  is more linearity. And also 
the new flux linkage FD is less distortion than the old one.  As 
a result, we can conclude that the performance under our 
control policy is better than the prior work [20]. 
However, if the motor is operated in the low speed, the 
mover voltage (Rmim) is the same order to the input voltage 
(um).  One should be obtained a large estimation error if the 
mover voltage is neglected. Accordingly, it becomes into a 
hard work for estimating the flux correctly.  A position error 
should be appeared due to an incorrect value of the thrust 
estimation.  And also the incorrect value of the thrust 
estimation is generated by the output of the incorrect flux. In 
fact, the incorrect value of the thrust estimation is due to an 
unsuitable space voltage vector.  It hints the switching 
algorithm cannot run correctly.  For reducing the influence of 
the low speed condition, the current-based method is needed 
for the new proposed estimator algorithm.  The current-based 
method equation of a PMLSM can be expressed as follow: 
 mc m m mcF R i F= −Ω&   (7) 
where 1 0 0 1, ,
0 1 1 0
m
p
m
R I x J I J
L
−⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤Ω = − = =⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
&  
The new one can be considered as a flux estimated 
compensator.  The block diagram with a low speed 
compensator is shown in Fig. 4.  Notice that the flux 
estimated compensator is effective only in the low speed 
operation region.  A correct value of the thrust estimation can 
be obtained if the motor is operating in the high-speed region.  
It is worthy to notice that the new flux estimator is better than 
the conventional one.  Especially, the problems of the motor 
under the low operating speed region can be solved by our 
control policy.   As a result, we can conclude that the new 
estimation algorithm may obtain a better performance than 
the prior research.  And also the inherent problems of the 
system should be eliminated. The performances of the flux 
linkage response with two different control policies are 
depicted in Fig. 5. 
 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
time (sec)
theta
fluxD
xp
 
Fig. 3(a).  A performance of the flux estimate algorithm [20]. 
 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
time (sec)
theta
fluxD
xp
 
Fig. 3(b).  A performance of a new flux estimate algorithm. 
 
Voltage-based 
Modified 
Integrator 
Algorithm
Low Speed 
Flux 
Estimator 
Compensator
UD
UQ
iD
iQ
FD
FQ
+
+
+
+
px&
 
 
Fig. 4.  A flux estimator block diagram with flux compensator. 
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
time (sec)
without flux compensator
with flux compensator
flux command
 
Fig. 5.  The flux linkage response with/without flux compensator. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:19 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 IV. SIMULATION RESULTS 
In this paper, an illuminated nonlinear control design (NCD) 
toolbox is used to obtain the vector [ , , ,α β φ γ ] for the FTSM 
controller. The NCD designed procedure has divided four 
steps: 1) specifying the desired response; 2) selecting the 
tuned parameters; 3) setup the ranges of the corresponding 
parameters; 4) executing the program until the all 
specifications are met.  In the following simulation work, the 
authors want the specify of the control system is as follows: 
the rise-time tr  0.1 sec, the settle≦ -time ts  0.2 sec, and the ≦
overshoot  2 %.  The fixed parameter is set as ≦ p = 3, q = 1, 
p0 = 9, and q0 = 5.  The authors hope the parameter vector 
[ , , ,α β φ γ ] is arranged between its lower and upper bound 
(i.e., [1, 1, 1, 1] and [100, 100, 100, 100]). Finally, the 
suitable parameter vector [39.26, 4.1, 47.63, 67.3] which is 
met the desired system criterion can be obtained. 
The performance of the proposed integration algorithms is 
investigated by Matlab/Simulink.  And the control system is 
shown in Fig. 6.  For this simulation work, some information 
of the motor’s data has to be involved in.  The values of the 
PMLSM model parameter is listed in Table I.  Some 
measured waveforms are provided here to validate the 
theoretical analysis.  The authors use three different input 
signals (triangular, sine and trapezoid waves) to trace the 
performance.  Fig. 7(a)-(c) shows the performance under a 
triangular-wave input signal.  Fig. 8-9 shows the measured 
full stroke system performance using sine-wave and 
trapezoid-wave input signal, respectively.  Based on the 
simulation results above, the trace of the output response is 
almost following the input command.  Nevertheless, two 
brilliant performances are revealing under our controller 
policy. One is a fast response performance and the other one 
is a well trace performance.  
 
Fig. 6.  The block diagram of a simulated PMLSM control system. 
TABLE I.  THE PARAMETERS OF THE PMLSM. 
Parameter Value Parameter Value 
Mover mass (Kg) 1.97 Phase resistance (Ω) 11.8/3 
Friction factor  
(N/(m/sec)) 
5.2982 Inductance (mH) 4.8/3 
Flux linkage (Wb) 0.4849 Number of pole pairs 1 
Pole pitch (m) 0.06096 Voltage (V) 280 
Cut off frequency ωc (Hz) 100 Flux linkage (Wb) 0.3 
 
0 2 4 6 8 10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
time (sec)
xpcmd
xp
 
Fig. 7(a).  The simulation result for triangular-wave input tracking (xp). 
-2 0 2 4 6 8
x 10
-3
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
e1 vers e2
Sliding surface
with compensator
without compensator
 
Fig. 7(b).  The simulation result for sliding surface. 
0 2 4 6 8 10
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
time (sec)  
Fig. 7(c).  The simulation result for flux position response (θ). 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:19 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 2
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
本計畫第一年度執行結果與所預期的目標完全相符。 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
本計畫第一年期所預期執行成果，現已將研究成果整理並發表 2篇 SCI 期刊及一篇國際會議
論。 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
1. Cheng-Chung Sung and Yi-Sheng Huang, “Based on Direct Thrust Control for Linear 
Synchronous Motor Systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron, Vol. 56, no. 5, pp. 1629-1639, 
May 2009. (SCI) (EI) 5.468(1/56) 
 
2. Yi-Sheng Huang and Cheng-Chung Sung, "Implementation of sliding mode controller for 
a linear synchronous motor based on direct thrust control theory," Accepted by IET 
Control Theory & Applications. 1.070 (113/229) 
 
3. Yi-Sheng Huang and Cheng-Chung Sung, “Implementation of a Fast Terminal Sliding 
Mode Controller for Direct Thrust Control Systems,” 2009 International Conference on 
Industrial Technology (IEEE ICIT 2009), Churchill, Victoria, Australia, Feb. 10-13, pp. 
95-100, 2009. 
 
 4
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、參加會議經過 
申請人於99年 03月 12日搭乘日亞航空公司班機前往東京轉乘美國航空公司班機前
往美國德州達拉斯機場然後再搭機前往智利，於當地時間 99 年 03 月 13 日上午約十
點抵達聖地牙哥國際機場，IEEE-ICIT200 主辦單位安排巴士前往會議地點
VALPARAISON 此行正好與台北科技大學電機系俞齊山副教授和東南科技大學電機系
陳平和副教授同行，經過約 200km 的車行，於傍晚時分即下榻我們預訂的飯店。 
99 年 03 月 14 日，我們一行三人即前往主辦單位的學校(University Technology 
Federico Santa Maria, Valparaiso)辦理註冊如圖一。 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－ E －606 －007－ 
計畫名稱 實現直接推力控制技術於線性同步馬達精密控制之研究(I)  
出國人員
姓名 黃義盛 
服務機構
及職稱 國防大學電機電子工程學系教授 
會議時間 99年 3月 12日至 99 年 3 月 20 日 會議地點 智利 
會議名稱 
(中文)國際電機電子工業技術研討會 
(英文)IEEE International Conference on Industrial Technology 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)降階模糊滑動控制線性同步馬達系統 
(英文) Reduced Order Fuzzy Sliding Mode Control for Linear Synchronous Motor 
Systems 
附件四 
 6
emissions in Mineral processing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖二: 台大電機系機械系陽毅平教授合影 
 
圖二：與台大機械系陽教授合影 
99 年 03 月 17 日，參加 plenary Session:第一場是由 Dehong Xu, Zhejiang University, 
China 主講，題目是:The status of Power Electronics research and application in 
China. 
第二場是由 Prof. Frede Blaabjerg, Aalborg University, Denmark 主講，題目
是:Power Electronics for Renewable Energy Systems. 
99 年 03 月 17 日下午返回智利首都聖地牙哥國際機場。 
99 年 03 月 18 日搭機經美國、日本返國。 
99 年 03 月 20 日返抵國門。 
 8
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 大會議程手冊. 
2. 大會會議論文集 CD 一份. 
六、其他 
在整個與會過程中，筆者最大的一個感受是學術交流的重要性。在我們的研究過程
中，常會遇到許多的瓶頸與困難，而解決方法並不是那麼的容易尋得。如果能多參
與這種針對專業主題所舉辦的研討會，答案常常在無意中自然得到，並且能對整個
世界新的研究趨勢有一程度的了解，有助我們掌握新的研究方向，以契合國際學界
潮流。 
因此建議國科會應鼓勵國內學者多參加此高素質之研討會與學會活動，尤其在研討
會或學會有擔任職務之與會者。如此可增加台灣研究成果在國際之曝光率，也能夠
藉機結識一些國外學者，將一些國外所得的資訊帶回台灣，也可以了解目前國際上
技術的發展現況，進而提昇自身的視野，相信對於國內研究人員有相當大的幫助。 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 10
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、國際合作研究過程 
二、研究成果 
三、建議 
四、其他 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名  
服務機構
及職稱  
合作國家  合作機構  
出國時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 出國地點  
附件六 
 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖一:拍攝於註冊報到處 
99 年 03 月 15 日，本人的論文被安排於 DS-1:DIALOGUE SESSON 1，正好與台大機械
系陽毅平教授在同一個 poster session(如圖二).  陽教授是國內相當知名的精密
系統控制領域的學者，其致力研究的電動馬達輪椅開發之研究案，更是榮獲國家新
創獎，個人有幸能於此次研討會與陽教授交換研究心得，可說獲益不少，亦可證實
本次 IEEE 所辦的國際工業科技研討會其受到矚目的程度。 
99 年 03 月 16 日，參加 plenary Session:第一場是由 MICAHAEL BASLER, ABB 
SWITZERLAND 主講，題目是:A New Medium Voltage Drive System Based on ANPC-5L 
Technology. 
第二場是由 JORGE Pontt, University Technical Federico Santa Maria, Chile 主
講，題目是:High-Power Drives for Energy Efficiency and abatement of carbon 
 7
二、與會心得 
藉由論文發表後與會學者之發問及建議，對於筆者後續論文研究之內容更能周全，研究結果將更
趨近完善。於本次研討會亦聆聽四場與研究有關之論文發表，其所用之研究方法和相關的結果，
對後續的研究均有相當助益。 
相信這次舉辦會議讓每位參加者獲益非淺，無論是論文的報告的安排皆相當具有學習的價
值，使與會者更想繼續參加未來的場次。整體而言，本次大會提供了各國豐富寶貴之研究資料，
與會人士亦積極參與、交換研究心得，其中每天有來自不同領域的傑出學者的精采演講及於會議
進行的同時，有來自各國優秀學者將自己的研究報告作各種論述，真是一場豐富的學術饗宴。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
四、建議 
一、 建議國內能積極爭取舉辦大型國際會議，不僅可達到促進國際交流的目的，
還可開闊國內研究生的眼界，並有機會一睹平常難得一見的大師風範。 
二、 本次參加國際研討會發現大陸地區出國參加的教授及留學生數目非常的
多，反而國內的留學生卻很少見到，建議政府相關單位應鼓勵國內優秀學子到國
外進修研究，以培養國際觀。 
三、 感謝國科會出國經費的補助，雖然不足以負擔此行所有的交通費用，但至少
給予申請人此次參與國際研討會的機會，雖然時間不長，但個人收穫甚多。 
 
 
Implementation of a Fast Terminal Sliding Mode  
Controller for Direct Thrust Control Systems 
 
Yi-Sheng Huanga and Cheng-Chung Sungb 
a, bDepartment of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, National Defense University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
bDepartment of Computer Science and Communication Engineering, Army Academy, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
aE-mail: yshuang@ndu.edu.tw; bE-mail: song4485@gmail.com 
 
 
Abstract- This paper presents a new methodology to implement a 
permanent magnet linear synchronous motor. The proposed method 
is a combination way which is combined the fast terminal sliding 
mode with the direct thrust control method.  The intended advantage 
of the proposed method is that the chattering phenomenon can be 
reduced and/or removed.  To our knowledge, the inherent flux 
linkage problems of permanent magnet linear synchronous motors 
did not seem to be handled by the pioneer contributions.  For 
overcoming the problems, a new estimator algorithm is used to get 
the accurate flux linkage value.  Finally, some experimental results 
are met as expected. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Linear motor drives equipment directly and does not need 
any mechanical coupling like belts, gears, screws or 
crankshafts, etc.  System efficiency with linear motor driving 
directly and its control circuits is higher than other rotating 
driving systems, even higher positioning precision.  Therefore, 
permanent magnet linear synchronous motors (PMLSMs) are 
widely used in industry drive areas of linear transmission or 
precision servo control [1-3].  In recent years, scientist and 
technologist are trying to replace rotating motor with linear 
motor in numerical control machining center or more axes 
cooperation system because of its efficiency and controlled 
precision by advanced control strategies.  The direct torque 
control has been utilized as a general formalism methodology 
for AC rotary motors [4-5].  It has been expanding into linear 
motor drives, named as direct thrust control (DTC) [6-7].  
However, the technical skill in the implementation of 
PMLSMs does not seem to be performed yet.  The reasons 
state both the problems of the amplitude of the actual flux 
linkage and the position angle of the actual flux linkage are 
no easy obtained.  For overcoming the problems, the paper 
proposes a new estimator algorithm to obtain both.  However, 
it is a well-known that PMLSM positioning accuracy is 
greatly affected by parameter variations and load disturbances.  
Furthermore, how to reduce these factors quickly and directly 
is a very important issue. 
Sliding-mode control works on the concept of designing a 
control so as to drive the system states to the so called sliding 
manifold.  One of the major advantages of sliding-mode 
control is that when the system states are on the sliding 
manifold, the closed-loop system behavior is robust to certain 
internal parameter variations and external disturbances [8-10].  
In general, sliding manifolds are chosen to be linear 
hyperplane named linear sliding mode (LSM).  Such 
hyperplane guarantees asymptotic stability of the system in 
the sliding mode.  That is, the system states will reach the 
equilibrium in infinite time.  Nevertheless, tracking error will 
no converge to zero in finite time in any case.  Terminal  
sliding-mode  (TSM)  control  [11]  aims  at  designing a  
sliding-mode  control  strategy  that  would  guarantee  a  
finite  time convergence to the origin.  This is accomplished 
by using a nonlinear sliding line which results in finite time 
convergence. And also [12-14] have been used successfully.  
Although this method has proved successfully, there is a 
series lack of effective or tractable design methods to choose 
the suitable parameters.  Comparison with LSM policy, the 
TSM policy does not seem to provide the same convergent 
performance when the system state is far away from the 
equilibrium.  The main reason is that the convergent time of 
the LSM is shorter than the TSM when the system state is 
close the equilibrium.  On the other hand, the discontinuity 
phase is a major contributor to the chattering behaviors. 
In this paper, we propose a fast terminal sliding mode 
(FTSM) controller that can drive the system to reach the 
nonlinear switching manifold in the reaching phase.  It is 
worthy to notice that LSM and TSM control technologies are 
used to improve the precision of the control and deliver a fast 
time response, respectively.  Moreover, the chattering 
phenomenon can be reduced and/or removed in the reaching 
phase and sliding phase under our controller. 
This paper is organized as follows.  A modified flux 
linkage estimation policy is introduced in section II.  A fast 
terminal sliding mode controller is presented in section III.  
The simulation results are depicted in section IV.  Finally, 
some conclusions are given in section V. 
 
II. A MODIFIED FLUX LINKAGE ESTIMATION POLICY  
A control policy is proposed which is insensitive of rotor 
parameters in this paper.  And also the implementation of the 
control policy is completely without the complicated rotating 
frame transform.  For convenience, a block diagram of a 
direct thrust control scheme for the PMLSM control system is 
depicted in Fig. 1.  It is worthy to point that DTC allows a 
controller to control the decoupled of electromagnetic thrust 
and the flux magnitude, respectively.  The main advantages 
of the DTC are as follows: 1) DTC has a simple and robust 
control structure; 2) DTC with a switching table provides 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:19 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3(a) shows the performance of the control policy [20] 
is without the correction coefficient kϕ.  And Fig. 3(b) is with 
kϕ.  Notice that both the performances are under controlled by 
the same position command.  In the two examples, a 
triangular reference input is required for moving 1τ (cm) with 
velocity 1τ/s (cm/sec).  It is worthy to notice that the result 
(i.e., Fig. 3(b)) is obtained under our modified integrator. It 
hints the suitable voltage vectors are selected successfully 
from the switching table by our control algorithm.  For 
convenience, all experimental results of the motor are 
normalized.  For instance, the position output (xp) is 
normalized as xp / 6 cm, the angle theta = (θ/180) degree and 
the flux linkage fluxD = FD / 0.3Wb.     Comparing the two 
performances (i.e., Fig. 3(a) and Fig. 3(b)), it is easy to point 
out that the new position angle θ  is more linearity. And also 
the new flux linkage FD is less distortion than the old one.  As 
a result, we can conclude that the performance under our 
control policy is better than the prior work [20]. 
However, if the motor is operated in the low speed, the 
mover voltage (Rmim) is the same order to the input voltage 
(um).  One should be obtained a large estimation error if the 
mover voltage is neglected. Accordingly, it becomes into a 
hard work for estimating the flux correctly.  A position error 
should be appeared due to an incorrect value of the thrust 
estimation.  And also the incorrect value of the thrust 
estimation is generated by the output of the incorrect flux. In 
fact, the incorrect value of the thrust estimation is due to an 
unsuitable space voltage vector.  It hints the switching 
algorithm cannot run correctly.  For reducing the influence of 
the low speed condition, the current-based method is needed 
for the new proposed estimator algorithm.  The current-based 
method equation of a PMLSM can be expressed as follow: 
 mc m m mcF R i F= −Ω&   (7) 
where 1 0 0 1, ,
0 1 1 0
m
p
m
R I x J I J
L
−⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤Ω = − = =⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
&  
The new one can be considered as a flux estimated 
compensator.  The block diagram with a low speed 
compensator is shown in Fig. 4.  Notice that the flux 
estimated compensator is effective only in the low speed 
operation region.  A correct value of the thrust estimation can 
be obtained if the motor is operating in the high-speed region.  
It is worthy to notice that the new flux estimator is better than 
the conventional one.  Especially, the problems of the motor 
under the low operating speed region can be solved by our 
control policy.   As a result, we can conclude that the new 
estimation algorithm may obtain a better performance than 
the prior research.  And also the inherent problems of the 
system should be eliminated. The performances of the flux 
linkage response with two different control policies are 
depicted in Fig. 5. 
 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
time (sec)
theta
fluxD
xp
 
Fig. 3(a).  A performance of the flux estimate algorithm [20]. 
 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
time (sec)
theta
fluxD
xp
 
Fig. 3(b).  A performance of a new flux estimate algorithm. 
 
Voltage-based 
Modified 
Integrator 
Algorithm
Low Speed 
Flux 
Estimator 
Compensator
UD
UQ
iD
iQ
FD
FQ
+
+
+
+
px&
 
 
Fig. 4.  A flux estimator block diagram with flux compensator. 
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
time (sec)
without flux compensator
with flux compensator
flux command
 
Fig. 5.  The flux linkage response with/without flux compensator. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:19 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 IV. SIMULATION RESULTS 
In this paper, an illuminated nonlinear control design (NCD) 
toolbox is used to obtain the vector [ , , ,α β φ γ ] for the FTSM 
controller. The NCD designed procedure has divided four 
steps: 1) specifying the desired response; 2) selecting the 
tuned parameters; 3) setup the ranges of the corresponding 
parameters; 4) executing the program until the all 
specifications are met.  In the following simulation work, the 
authors want the specify of the control system is as follows: 
the rise-time tr  0.1 sec, the settle≦ -time ts  0.2 sec, and the ≦
overshoot  2 %.  The fixed parameter is set as ≦ p = 3, q = 1, 
p0 = 9, and q0 = 5.  The authors hope the parameter vector 
[ , , ,α β φ γ ] is arranged between its lower and upper bound 
(i.e., [1, 1, 1, 1] and [100, 100, 100, 100]). Finally, the 
suitable parameter vector [39.26, 4.1, 47.63, 67.3] which is 
met the desired system criterion can be obtained. 
The performance of the proposed integration algorithms is 
investigated by Matlab/Simulink.  And the control system is 
shown in Fig. 6.  For this simulation work, some information 
of the motor’s data has to be involved in.  The values of the 
PMLSM model parameter is listed in Table I.  Some 
measured waveforms are provided here to validate the 
theoretical analysis.  The authors use three different input 
signals (triangular, sine and trapezoid waves) to trace the 
performance.  Fig. 7(a)-(c) shows the performance under a 
triangular-wave input signal.  Fig. 8-9 shows the measured 
full stroke system performance using sine-wave and 
trapezoid-wave input signal, respectively.  Based on the 
simulation results above, the trace of the output response is 
almost following the input command.  Nevertheless, two 
brilliant performances are revealing under our controller 
policy. One is a fast response performance and the other one 
is a well trace performance.  
 
Fig. 6.  The block diagram of a simulated PMLSM control system. 
TABLE I.  THE PARAMETERS OF THE PMLSM. 
Parameter Value Parameter Value 
Mover mass (Kg) 1.97 Phase resistance (Ω) 11.8/3 
Friction factor  
(N/(m/sec)) 
5.2982 Inductance (mH) 4.8/3 
Flux linkage (Wb) 0.4849 Number of pole pairs 1 
Pole pitch (m) 0.06096 Voltage (V) 280 
Cut off frequency ωc (Hz) 100 Flux linkage (Wb) 0.3 
 
0 2 4 6 8 10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
time (sec)
xpcmd
xp
 
Fig. 7(a).  The simulation result for triangular-wave input tracking (xp). 
-2 0 2 4 6 8
x 10
-3
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
e1 vers e2
Sliding surface
with compensator
without compensator
 
Fig. 7(b).  The simulation result for sliding surface. 
0 2 4 6 8 10
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
time (sec)  
Fig. 7(c).  The simulation result for flux position response (θ). 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CHIN YUN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on September 24, 2009 at 21:19 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
無研發成果推廣資料 
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
3.Yi-Sheng Huang and 
Cheng-Chung 
Sung, ＇Implementation of 
a Fast Terminal Sliding 
Mode Controller for 
Direct Thrust Control 
Systems,＇ 2009 
International Conference 
on Industrial Technology 
(IEEE ICIT 2009), 
Churchill, Victoria, 
Australia, Feb. 10-13, 
pp. 95-100, 2009. 
 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他
協助產業技術發展
之具體效益事項
等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
