2 
 
(一) 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞 (keywords)  
關鍵詞：薄膜電晶體, 感光效應, 偵測器 
非晶矽薄膜電晶體由於它的高光感測性以及較易製作於大面積上，在主動矩陣液晶顯示器以
及偵測器上受到廣泛的注意。之前的研究指出，ㄧ些使用薄膜電晶體的感測機構都已經被論証討
論。然而，大部分傳統型的光感測器都是用外部的分離元件去裝置的，所以會造成額外的成本與
設計上的複雜度。 
為了研究上述的這個課題，增加畫素開關薄膜電晶體的速度與光電晶體的動態偵測範圍。在
本計畫中，我們設計多種類型的薄膜電晶體元件，藉由不同結構亦或閘極電壓的調整，我們可以
依照需求決定光產生電流的效率區域多寡。同時，所設計的光電晶體在不同操作區域的不同偵測
能力的特性可被用做動態偵測範圍中提升訊號雜訊的比值。在兩年的計畫中，我們開發了顯示器
的背光感測與正光感測電路，並解決在實際應用上所會遇到的問題。由於整個製程並沒有額外的
流程，這對我們要將光感測器整合是相當有幫助的。同時，我們希望藉由計畫的執行能達到卓越
的研究成果，能更提昇我國技術水準，趕上世界的技術水平，衍生更具附加價值的面板產品。 
 
Keywords：Thin-Film Transistor, Photosensitive effect, Sensor 
Hydrogenated amorphous silicon thin film transistors (a-Si:H TFTs) receive extensive application 
in active matrix liquid crystal display (LCD) and sensors due to its high photo sensitivity and ease of 
deposition across large area substrates. It was reported that some sensing functions using TFTs were 
already also demonstrated. However, most of the conventional ambient light sensor systems were 
implemented by external discrete devices which cause additional cost and the design complexity. 
    In addition to the research for issues above, to increase the speed of pixel switching TFT, cause a 
large drop in the dynamic range of photo transistor. In this project, we design some kinds of different 
type TFT devices. We can make an alteration depletion length to control effective region of 
photo-excited leakage current from adjustment of different type device structures or gate voltages. 
Meanwhile, the difference sensing capability of designed photo transistor from the dark to the bright 
region by itself is adaptive to increase signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for wide dynamic range. During the 
past two years, we had developed the front-light sensing and backlight sensing circuits and solved the 
practical problems when they are applied into TFT LCD. This method does not need novel device 
process development and can be implemented on to panel helpfully. Furthermore, based on the 
achievements in these projects, we will help the panel industry in Taiwan to catch up the world. 
 
(二) 報告內容 
1. 研究計畫之背景、目的及重要性： 
近年來，隨著大尺寸液晶顯示器技術的演進，由小尺寸的 PDA 到數位電視更是蓬勃發展，
在現階段 TFT-LCD 應用產品中，因為較容易沉積實現基板的大型化，而使非晶矽薄膜電晶體為
發展上的主流技術。而又由於隨著平面顯示器逐漸地普及化，對顯示器產品的需求也越來越高，
其中不單只需要顯示功能，非晶矽薄膜電晶體有較高的光敏感性(Photo-Sensitivity)，在整合光偵
測器的研究上，非晶矽薄膜電晶體越來越被受到重視。目前改善非晶矽薄膜電晶體的特性及具有
系統性之元件的開發上主要分成二個方面。一是進一步改善平面顯示器的既有特性，加強發揮平
面顯示面板的優勢；二是增加產品的功能整合度，擴張其應用範圍。在特性改善部份，分為液晶
光電特性與高光效率面板光源進行。在功能整合部份，則由製程技術控制，新型元件研究，以及
內建電路和驅動設計著手。圖(一)所示為應用非晶矽薄膜電晶體技術製作之系統整合型顯示面板
示意圖。 
本計畫的主要目標，即是發展一種新穎的非晶矽薄膜電晶體元件技術，製作同時兼具高光感
測電流及多功效能的顯示偵測元件。藉由製備與舊有製程上相容的非晶矽薄膜電晶體元件結構，
來提高光敏感性。再利用不同操作區域對應的高光敏感性元件特性的結果設計新型自我調變
(Novel Self-Modulated)的光感測電路，達到多功的 High Dynamic Range 光偵測電路。同時，由於
4 
 
Stress[26~35]亦有相當文獻討論。 
 
3. 參考文獻： 
1. Farhad Taghibakhsh, and Karim S. Karim, "Two-Transistor Active Pixel Sensor Readout Circuits in 
Amorphous Silicon Technology for High-Resolution Digital Imaging Applications," IEEE 
Transactions on Electron Devices, v 55, n 8, Special Issue on Silicon Carbide Devices and 
Technology, 2008, p 2121-2128. 
2. Safavian, N.; Chaji, G.R.; Ashtiani, S.J.; Nathan, A.; Rowlands, J.A.  "A novel current scaling 
active pixel sensor with correlated double sampling readout circuit for real time medical x-ray 
imaging" Proceedings - IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, 2007 IEEE 
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, ISCAS 2007, 2007, p 93-96 
3. Taghibakhsh, Farhad; Karim, Karim S.” Charge-gated thin-film transistors for high resolution digital 
imaging applications” IEEE Electron Device Letters, v 29, n 8, August, 2008, p 859-862 
4. Pimparkar, Ninad; Alam, Muhammad Ashraful.” A "Bottom-up" redefinition for mobility and the 
effect of poor tube-tube contact on the performance of CNT nanonet thin-film transistors” IEEE 
Electron Device Letters, v 29, n 9, 2008, p 1037-1039 
5. Chaji, G. Reza; Safavian, Nader; Nathan, Arokia” Compensation technique for DC and transient 
instability of thin film transistor circuits for large-area devices” Analog Integrated Circuits and 
Signal Processing, v 56, n 1-2, August, 2008, p 143-151 
6. Safavian, N.; Chaji, G.R.; Karim, K.S.; Rowlands, J.A.” A novel hybrid active-passive pixel with 
correlated double sampling CMOS readout circuit for medical X-ray imaging” Proceedings - IEEE 
International Symposium on Circuits and Systems, 2008 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits 
and Systems, ISCAS 2008, 2008, p 3170-3173 
7. Taghibakhsh, Farhad; Khodami, Ida; Karim, Karim S.” Characterization of 
short-wavelength-selective a-Si:H MSM photoconductors for large-area digital-imaging applications” 
IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices, v 55, n 1, January, 2008, Special Issue on Device 
Technologies and Circuit Techniques for Power Management, p 337-342 
8. Pimparkar, Ninad; Kocabas, Coskun; Kang, Seong Jun; Rogers, John; Alam, Muhammad Ashraful” 
Limits of performance gain of aligned CNT over randomized network: Theoretical predictions and 
experimental validation” EEE Electron Device Letters, v 28, n 7, July, 2007, p 593-595 
9. Hosono, Hideo” Recent progress in transparent oxide semiconductors: Materials and device 
application” Thin Solid Films, v 515, n 15 SPEC. ISS., May 31, 2007, p 6000-6014 
10. Han, Lin; Liu, Xing Ming; Liu, Li Tian” A high performance uncooled a-Si TFT infrared sensor” 
Proceedings of 1st IEEE International Conference on Nano Micro Engineered and Molecular 
Systems, 1st IEEE-NEMS, Proceedings of 1st IEEE International Conference on Nano Micro 
Engineered and Molecular Systems, 1st IEEE-NEMS, 2006, p 631-634 
11. Jacques, Emmanuel; Le Bihan, France; Crand, Samuel; Brahim, Tayeb Mohammed”Differential 
amplifier using polysilicon TFTs processed at low temperature to be integrated with TFT hall sensor” 
IECON Proceedings (Industrial Electronics Conference), IECON 2006 - 32nd Annual Conference on 
IEEE Industrial Electronics, 2006, p 3193-3198 
12. Safavian, N.; Chaji, G.R.; Kabir, M.Z.; Nathan, A.; Rowlands, J.A.” 3-TFT active pixel sensor with 
correlated double sampling readout circuit for real-time medical x-ray imaging” 4th International 
IEEE North-East Workshop on Circuits and Systems, NEWCAS 2006 - Conference Proceedings, 4th 
International IEEE North-East Workshop on Circuits and Systems, NEWCAS 2006 - Conference 
Proceedings, 2006, p 265-268 
13. Lee, Ki-Chan; Moon, Seung-Hwan; Berkeley, Brian; Kim, Sang-Soo” Optical feedback system with 
integrated color sensor on LCD” Sensors and Actuators, A: Physical, v 130-131, n SPEC. ISS., Aug 
14, 2006, p 214-219 
14. Liang, Chung-Yu; Gan, Feng-Yuan; Liu, Po-Tsun; Yeh, F.S.; Chen, Stephen Hsin-Li; Chang, 
Ting-Chang” A novel self-aligned etch-stopper structure with lower photo leakage for AMLCD and 
sensor applications” IEEE Electron Device Letters, v 27, n 12, December, 2006, p 978-980 
6 
 
207–209, Jan 1992. 
33. F. R. Libsch and J. Kanicki, “Bias-stress-inducedstretched-exponential time dependence of charge 
injection and trapping in amorphous siliconthin-film transistors,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 62, 
pp.1286–1288, 1993. 
34. M. J. Powell, C. van Berkel, I. D. French, and D. H. Nicholls, “Bias dependence of instability 
mechanisms in amorphous silicon thin film transistors,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 51, pp. 1242–1244, 
1987. 
M. J. Powell, C. van Berkel, and J. R. Hughes, “Time and temperature dependence of instability 
mechanisms in amorphous silicon thin-film transistors,” Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 54, no. 14, pp.   
1323–1325, 1989. 
 
4.本計畫採用之研究方法與原因。 
 研究方法與原因： 
為了達到非晶矽薄膜電晶體的 Sensing System on Panel 的未來展望，在本計畫中規劃以二年
的時間來開發兼具高光感測與多功能電路驅動的高效能光偵測薄膜電晶體技術與研究。兩年的相
關研究分配的比重分別為元件的設計相關特性與電路的設計與實現。在第一年裡，初步提高光感
特性，製備與舊有製程上相容的元件結構。包括 Source-Gate 型與 Double-gate 或 
Partial-Floating-Gate 型的非晶矽薄膜電晶體元件。將所做元件量测資料庫建立後分析新元件光漏
電傳導機制，建立光感的評估因子，並嘗試轉化成以元件模型參數表示以便作為後續研究的重要
指針。同時試著將新元件光感測區間較高的特性模型處理於電路分析，作為高變動容許度之電路
設計的研究基礎，用以改善修正基礎電路模型的操作狀態及各種溫度與照光下的電路特性。在第
二年的規劃上，就先前分析新元件光感與溫度電性等設計經驗，建立新型設計模擬技術。評估新
型設計模擬技術的電路，提高面板的價值，目前初步的構想會用前一年高光敏感性元件特性的結
果設計新型自我調變(Novel Self-Modulated)的光感測電路。如圖五所示，高光感測元件在不同的
操作區域 (ON/OFF region)對應不同的光強度各有不同的偵測效能。以 ON region 為例，元件在小
光強度有較高的光敏感性，而隨著光強度增加，光敏感性因此而降低。我們可針對此一特性設計
偵測電路，在不同的照光條件下用個別電路讀出精準的偵測值(低光強度採用元件的開狀態，而高
光強度則切換用元件關狀態來判讀)，有機會因此達到 Wide Dynamic Range 的光感測操作電路。 
   
[圖五]不同偏壓操作下，照光與光電流的關係圖，元件操作在 (a)開狀態 (b)關狀態。 
 
而在擴大應用上，第二個可能的應用的電路在於利用 Partial-Floating-Gate 型的非晶矽薄膜
電晶體元件做正照與背照光的光感測系統，此同樣可整合前電路的優點。最後我們將結合這兩年
的技術，使電晶體兼具高光感測、多功能(偵測光源強弱與正照背照系統)的高效能特性，發展『非
8 
 
體操作在高閘極電壓時仍對光具有感應性，此時大電流特性提供我們將其設計應用為光感
測元件的機會，然而非晶矽元件感光電路最大問題為元件電流會隨光照時間增長而衰退。
本計畫詳細討論元件衰退特性並提出可行的校正方法，在我們的分析中，校正後的感測電
路將可有效克服非晶矽感光電路的衰退現象，同時我們也具體化發表感測電路如何應用在
薄膜電晶體顯示器面板中。 
 
 結果與建議 
 
利用前一年的成果，我們已大致了解元件在何種操作條件具有較佳的特性。在固定元件的操
作條件後，我們討論間隙型與傳統非晶矽薄膜電晶體在正面照光下的差異，圖七顯示間隙型薄膜
電晶體在元件開區域在不同照光強度下有著不同的汲極電流，因此我們可將間隙型薄膜電晶體操
作在開區域作為感光元件，藉以得到較高的感光電流。在感光電路上，利用汲極電流作為感測訊
號，較大的感測電流可使感測準確度提高，同時可以降低對於周邊的讀取 IC 的要求，減少成本。
分析上，圖八顯示在不同照光強度下，元件呈現不同電阻值，元件總電阻(Rtotal)可視為通道電阻
(Rchannel)與間隙電阻(Rgap) ，即 Rtotal=Rchannel+Rgap。當元件操作於開區域時，通道電阻將會遠小於
間隙電阻，此時元件特性將會受間隙區域主導，意即感光區域將為間隙透光區域。 
 
 
[圖七] (左) 傳統型 (右) 間隙型非晶矽薄膜電晶體在正面照光下之元件特性圖 
 
     
 
[圖八] 間隙型薄膜電晶體在不同正面照光強度及不同間隙長度下之元件特性 
 
10 
 
電晶體與一個傳統非晶矽薄膜電晶體串聯而成。由於我們利用元件開區域特性進行感光，從圖七
中兩者的照光特性圖中可以看到，間隙型薄膜電晶體不論是未照光或照光時，開電流(ON current)
都遠低於傳統非晶矽薄膜電晶體，意即電阻值較大，因此當掃描線打開時，感光電流將受控於阻
值較大的間隙型薄膜電晶體。但是面板驅動一次只開啟一條掃描線，大部分感光畫素均為關狀態，
由於電路中兩者照光時的關電流(OFF current)均不可忽視，且會造成感測系統的誤判，為了避免
此現象，我們可將傳統薄膜電晶體遮蔽，使其受限於暗電流特性，讓外部電流積分器只會讀取到
被選擇的畫素感測電流。此外，由於計算所需的參數R值需要在有無背光兩種情況下分別被得到，
圖十三的時序顯示感測電流如何在背光暗及亮的時候被取得，此種背光關閉開啟交錯的方式在原
先的面板操作上就常被用來消除 Motion Blur，因此搭配我們所提出之校正方法即為合適。此感光
電路設計以感測電流作為訊號，有別於一般利用源極追隨器式的感光電路，不但可有效避免由於
元件間變異性所造成的誤差，同時電路簡單化且不需額外的訊號控制線，可在不大幅降低開口率
的情況下加入感光功能，提升產品的附加性。 
 
 
[圖十二] 整合正面光感測電路之非晶矽薄膜電晶體陣列 
 
 
[圖十三] 圖六中感測陣列之驅動方式及訊號讀取示意圖 
 
成果自評 
    在本年度中除了累積對於各種不同結構元件間的了解，並詳細探討元件感光特性的成因，利
用團隊善於分析研究的優點，歸納出元件的特性並加以利用。在前一年度中我們全面分析元件的
感光特性並尋找最佳的操作條件，同時討論元件在背光照射下的衰退行為並設計對應之背面感光
電路。在今年度除了延續背光的應用外，我們也討論間隙型非晶矽薄膜電晶體對於正面照光的特
性，當然也同步提出可實際整合於顯示器面板中的感光電路，並提出有效解決非晶矽薄膜電晶體
在光偵測應用上，面臨長時間應用電流衰退的問題。相關內容均統整完畢並發表於顯示器相關期
刊中(Journal of Display Technology)，執行成果豐碩且內容完整。 
The Poster Session presents the opportunity for a more interactive dialogue between authors and 
their most interested audience; there will be no oral sessions scheduled at the same time. Since its 
inception, the Poster Session has proven to be one of the most popular events at SID, and has 
drawn widespread praise from both participants and attendees. The choice of poster over oral 
presentation was made where the subject was judged to be of high interest to a narrower audience, or 
the content appeared better suited to poster formats. Submission requirements and review criteria 
were the same for all contributed papers, and all accepted papers, whether poster or oral, receive 
equal weight in the SID Digest of Technical Papers. 
  
We believe the Poster Session is an important addition to the quality of the Symposium, and we 
look forward to your participation.  If you are a co-author, please alert your colleagues of this 
acceptance letter. 
  
The below link will supply you with information to prepare and submit your paper for SID 
‘11.  The deadline for submission is March 4, 2011.  For submission purposes, your poster 
number is 197. 
  
http://www.sid.org/conf/sid2011/poster/poster.html 
  
If you cannot use the above internet link, please reply to this email and we will email or mail 
you the author instructions. 
  
Sincerely yours, 
  
John Zhong 
SID ‘11 Technical Program Chair 
 
  2
Thus, there is no current passing through M1 and M2. On the 
other hand, if the pixel is touched, the presentation or increase 
in Csen makes the gate pulse Vscan,N-1 falling to OFF at a lower 
rate. By properly designing the resistance R according to the 
timing of the scan lines and Csen, we can make M2 temporarily 
ON while M1 is selected. Therefore, a transient current occurs 
and it can be used as the signal of touch. It is very easy to 
determine the touch event from the significant output ON 
current, which makes the read out circuit very simple. 
 
3. Experimental Verification 
3.1  Simulation  
In this method, the pixel outputs sensing signal in current 
mode. It is more proper to be applied in a large size panel 
because the current signal does not affected by the stray 
capacitance and resistance on the signal bus. The device 
variation only affects the output current level but not the 
response time that carries the information of touch. Moreover, 
this proposal does not consume readout power when sensing 
pixel is not touched. This can minimize the power consumption 
of operation. Thus, all the issues mentioned above are avoided. 
The scan pulse waveform is very concerned in the 
proposed circuit. The scan pulse can be seriously distorted if 
the sensing pixel is located at the far-end of scan line. The 
function of the proposed method should be confirmed for the 
pixels near the end of scan line. The software HSPICE is used 
to perform a preliminary simulation for the proposed circuit 
and verify the advantages mentioned in last paragraph. Fig. 3 
shows the simulation results of the pixels sited the near- and 
far-end of a scan line. The far-end scan pulse is applied with 
distortion time constant set as 20% of the gate pulse width, 
which corresponds to the reasonable RC distortion at the end of 
a row line. The sensing circuit considering the scan delay is set 
as Fig.2. 
In applications, the proposed method accurately 
determines the touch location by the scanning y and the 
readout channel x, which supports multiple touch operation 
like the other active matrix sensors. The proposed circuit can 
 
 
Fig. 2 The scheme of the proposed touch sensing circuit 
with the scan and data delay consideration 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
Fig. 3 The simulation results of (a) near (b) end of scan line. 
 
be applied in both external and in-cell types of TSPs. For 
the external type, the sensing capacitance is formed by the gate 
electrode of M2 and a floating pad for touch. For in-cell TSPs, 
we can use liquid crystal capacitance to be Csen, which is varied 
by the external force to compress the cell gap. It is even better 
that the pixel circuit only occupies a small aperture because of 
its simple configuration. 
 
 
3.2  Measurement   
For verification, the proposed circuit is implemented by 
two discrete IGZO TFTs, one resistor, and one capacitor. Two 
values of capacitance are used in our experiment. One of the 
two capacitors is selected to be 2.64 times of the other one to 
simulate the touched and untouched cases. Two pulses 
corresponding to scan,N and scan,N-1 are fed to the gate 
electrodes of the TFTs with and without the RC circuit, 
respectively. In order to prove the easiness of read out, we 
simply use a resistor to measure the transient current.  
The measurement results are shown in Fig. 4. When the 
  4
 References 
[1] M. K. Kang, et al., “Advanced Technology Based on 
a-Si or LTPS TFT for high performance Mobile 
Display”, SID Symp. Dig., pp. 1262-1265, 2007. 
[2] C. Brown, et al., “A 2.6 inch VGA LCD with optical 
input function using a 1-Transistor Active-Pixel Sensor”, 
ISSCC, Session 7, pp. 132-133, 2007. 
[3] T. Eguchi, et al., “A 1300-dpi optical image sensor using 
an a-Si:H photo diode array driven by LTPS TFTs”, SID 
Symp. Dig., pp. 1097-1100, 2007. 
[4] H. Hayashi, et al., “Optical Sensor Embedded input 
display usable under high-ambient light conditions”, 
SID Symp. Dig., pp. 1105-1108, 2007. 
[5] G. J. A. Destura, et al., “Novel Touch Sensitive In-Cell 
AMLCD”, SID Symp. Dig., pp. 22-23, 2004.   
[6] B. H. You, et al., “12.1-inch a-Si:H TFT LCD with 
Embedded Touch Screen Panel”, SID Symp. Dig., 
pp.830-833, 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[7] C. S. Kim, et al., “Active Matrix Touch Sensor 
Perceiving Liquid Crystal Capacitance with Amorphous 
Silicon Thin Film Transistors”, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 
49, no.3, part 3, 2010 
[8] B. H. You, et al., “LCD Embedded Hybrid Touch Screen 
Panel Based on a-Si:H TFT”, SID Symp. Dig., 
pp.439-442, 2009. 
[9] H. S. Park, et al., ”Touch-Sensitive Active-Matrix 
Display with Liquid-Crystal Capacitance Detector 
Arrays”, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 49, no.3, part 2, 2010 
[10] C.-F. Wu, C.-H. Tsao, C.-W. Wang, Y.-T. Chen, K.-H. 
Tsai, Y.-P. Huang,, C.-M. Hung, T.-R. Chang, M.-S. Lai, 
M.-F., Chiang, B.-Y. Liu, and C.-T. Liu, “Touch Panel 
Liquid Crystal Displays,” China Patent, publication 
number CN 1916712A 
 
 在會議期間抽空參觀會議展覽，與去年相比，來自台灣的廠商更少
了，面板大廠 AUO 或 CMO 等皆未參加，只有元太科技以較大的規
模展示電子紙技術；來自韓國的顯示器大廠 Samsung 和 LG 仍維持與
去年相同的大規模的展出。 
 
二、 與會心得 
此次會議的主要目的是報告本實驗室所發表之論文為壁報論文編號 P.197，
擔任 Session 26 的 co-chair，以及參加 Program committee 會議。在此國際性大型
會議進行發表，能和與會的專家學者們進行更深一層的討論，提高台灣及本校在
國際間研究的知名度與能見度，許多參觀者提出了問題，並討論未來可以繼續研
究的方向與在應用上可能的發展，對我將來在進一步的研究極具助益。 
在這次的研討會中，有非常多金屬氧化物半導體(oxide semiconductor，OS)
薄膜電晶體(TFTs)的相關論文，本次本人實驗室所發表的論文亦與此有關，可見
OS TFTs 是目前眾所矚目的研發重點，另一方面，在展示會場中已有許多 OS TFT
的產品展出，可見目前技術從實驗到生產所花的時間縮得非常短，顯出目前技術
進步的快速與激烈競爭。 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 99-2221-E-009-121- 
計畫名稱 非晶矽薄膜電晶體作為光感測元件及電路之研究(II) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職
稱 
周祿盛/交通大學/博士生 
會議時間地點 May 15 - May 20, 2011 
會議名稱 Society For Information Display 
發表論文題目 Active Matrix Touch Sensor Detecting Time-Constant Change Implemented by IGZO TFTs 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
     5 月 7 日由台灣出發，到會議所在地洛杉磯為當地 7 日下午三點半鐘，而
後一星期參訪由 SID 大會所推薦的當地景點。16 日於會議舉行地 Los Angeles 
Convention Center 註冊後，在往後三天聽取了 Oxide TFT1、Oxide TFT2、
Panel-driving Technology、Capacitive Touch System、Touch System 等 Oral 
Section，並將其成果整理攜回台灣與團隊中夥伴一起分享。 
   
     會議中於空檔時間參觀展示區，瞭解各家廠商在今年度的技術重點及突
破。本次投稿至 SID 的成果被安排於 Touch System 中，並在 19 號下午 poster
包括本團隊所提出之＂ Active Matrix Touch Sensor Detecting Time-Constant 
Change Implemented by IGZO TFTs＂。此外，在綠色能源的議題下，低功耗高畫
質之顯示器亦不斷被研究改進中。 
       
三.結語 
本次參與SID會議攜帶回論文集光碟一份，將提供台灣沒有參與的實驗室夥
伴有機會閱讀國外研究的論文，還有展覽會場拍攝的一些展示照片也提供台灣
的夥伴有機會了解業界的動向與發展，能夠有這樣的機會到國外參加會議是一
次很好的歷練，很感謝國科會給予的補助，相信此經費也可助於日後的相關研
究與發展。 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：戴亞翔 計畫編號：99-2221-E-009-121- 
計畫名稱：非晶矽薄膜電晶體作為光感測元件及電路之研究(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
