 2 
 
報告內容 
 
 文章發表於APIEMS 2010 
 Li-Chang Chao and Li-I Chao. 2010. Constructing a Wafer Defect Diagnostic System by Integrating 
Yield Prediction and Defect Pattern Recognition. Asia Pacific Industrial Engineering and 
Management Systems Conference (APIEMS), Parallel Session [A], Artificial Intelligence in IE, in 
Melaka, Malaysia, 7-10 December. 
 
Constructing a Wafer Defect Diagnostic System by Integrating Yield 
Prediction and Defect Pattern Recognition 
 
Li-Chang Chao† 
Graduate Institute of Industrial Management, Taiwan Shoufu University 
No.168, Nanshi Li, Madou Town, Tainan County 72153, Taiwan(R.O.C.) 
Tel.: +886-6-5718888 ext.854; fax: +886-6-5712473 
Email: fredchao@dwu.edu.tw 
 
Li-I Chao 
Computer Center, Taiwan Shoufu University 
No.168, Nanshi Li, Madou Town, Tainan County 72153, Taiwan(R.O.C.) 
Email: liichao@yahoo.com.tw 
 
 
Abstract - Wafer yield is a highly effective means of evaluating the process capability of integrated circuit 
manufacturers. The defect number and cluster intensity of defects on a wafer are two critical factors 
influencing wafer yield. As wafer sizes increase, the clustering phenomenon of defects increases. Clustered 
defects cause the conventional Poisson yield model to underestimate actual wafer yield. The cluster 
parameter α of the negative binomial model can be very scattered and negative when the model is applied to 
predict yield. Compound Poisson yield models are complicated. The degree of fitness must be considered 
when the regression methods are utilized to model the yield. Obtaining good prediction network requires 
substantial effort to identify the parameters of back-propagation neural network. Although some yield models 
consider the effects of defect clustering on yield prediction, these models have some drawbacks. Furthermore, 
the possible causes of process variation can be found by operators through analyzing the defect pattern on a 
wafer. Judging the process variation by operators is time-consuming and the accuracy of variation detecting 
can be influenced resulting from the erroneous judgment. Although some recognizing methods considering 
defect pattern on a wafer were proposed, these recognizing methods still have some flaws. This study presents 
a novel wafer defect diagnostic system that utilizes a general regression neural network integrating a multi-
class support vector machines to predict the wafer yield and recognize the defect pattern on a wafer. A 
simulation study is utilized to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. 
 
Keywords: Defect, clustering phenomenon, yield model, general regression neural network, pattern 
recognition, support vector machines.  
 4 
 
 
2.2.1 General Regression Neural Network 
 
GRNN is a three-layer network model (Specht, D. F. 
1991). Input units are merely distribution units which 
forward measurement variables to the pattern units in the 
second (hidden) layer. This hidden layer consists of one 
neuron for each pattern in the training pattern. The GRNN 
is essentially trained after one pass of the training patterns 
and its activation function normally uses an exponential 
function. The unique parameter of GRNN is the smoothing 
factor σ which influences the output value; that is, high 
smoothing factors produce increased relaxed surface fits 
throughout the data. Unlike the conventional regression 
model, GRNN can be defined through its joint continuous 
probability density function, rather than utilizing a 
specified function that must be determined in advance. The 
GRNN model utilizes a Parzen window (Parzen, E. 1962), 
which is a nonparameter approach to estimating the joint 
continuous probability density function. 
GRNN measures how far a given sample pattern is 
from patterns in the training set. When a new pattern is 
presented to the network, the input pattern is compared to 
all of the patterns in the training set to determine how far it 
is from those patterns. The output that is predicted by the 
network is a proportional amount of all of the outputs in the 
training set. The proportion is based upon how far the new 
pattern is from the given patterns in the training set. GRNN 
uses an algorithm to find appropriate individual smoothing 
factors for each input as well as an overall smoothing factor. 
The algorithm proceeds in two parts. The first part trains 
the network with the data in the training set. The second 
part tests a whole range of smoothing factors. The method 
will produce networks which work much better on the test 
set. 
The major difference between GRNN and other 
supervised neural networks is that GRNN can treat 
continuous valued outputs and categorize data, and there 
are fewer training parameters are required. Moreover, 
GRNN can be used for any regression problem in which a 
linearity assumption is violated, and it converges fast on the 
optimal regression surface as the number of samples 
becomes substantially large. The GRNN model, then, is 
used in this study to construct wafer yield model. 
 
2.3 Recognizing Defect Patterns 
 
Many techniques used for wafer defect pattern 
recognition are statistical approach, heuristic approach and 
simulation approach (Nieddu, L. & Patrizi, G. 2000). The 
statistical approach can be viewed as determining a strategy 
for classifying samples based on the measurement of 
feature vector, such that classification error is minimized. 
The heuristic approach attempts to clarify the essential 
problem and use available personal knowledge to solve it 
with the assistance of soft computing schemes. But there 
exists lots limitations (Bhanu et al. 1995) (Chen, C. L. & 
Chang, M. H. 1998). The simulation approach emulates the 
computational paradigm of a biological system. Current 
knowledge of cerebral processes is transferred from a 
neuro-physiological medium to an electronic one. This 
leads to neural networks. But there exists lots drawbacks 
(Jain et al. 2000) (Nieddu, L. & Patrizi, G. 2000). SVM 
have been widely used for pattern recognition in recent 
years. Several studies report that the SVM classification is 
more accurate than existing classification algorithms (Hsu, 
C. W. & Lin, C. J. 2002) (Joachims, J. 1998). The multi-
class SVM, then, is used in this study to recognize wafer 
defect patterns. 
 
2.3.1 Support Vector Machines 
 
SVM technique was introduced by Vapnik (Cortes, C. 
& Vapnik, V. 1995). The original intent of the SVM 
algorithm was to use a linear separating hyperplane to build 
a classifier. For all hyperplanes separating data, there exists 
a unique optimal hyperplane distinguished by the 
maximum margin of separation between any training point 
and the hyperplane. If the training set of instance-label 
pairs are non-linearly separable, the linear SVM may not 
work well again. The non-linear kernel can then solve the 
classification problem. The most commonly applied non-
linear kernels are the polynomial kernel, the Gaussian 
kernel and the sigmoid kernel. The classification problem 
can obtain reasonable results when the Gaussian kernel is 
applied to map samples into a higher dimensional space 
(Keerthi, S. S. & Lin, C. J. 2003). 
The classification problem mentioned above refers to 
binary classification. Many real-world problems, however, 
have more than two classes. A multi-class SVM can be 
employed to solve the classification problem that have 
more than two classes. Many methods have been developed 
to solve multi-class SVM such as the one-against-all 
method (Bottou et al. 1994), one-against-one method 
(KreBel, U. 1999), Directed Acyclic Graph method (Platt et 
al. 2000) and considering all data at a once (Vapnik, V. 
1998). This study utilizes a multi-class SVM for wafer 
defect pattern recognition. Because the training time of the 
one-against-one method is the shortest of these methods 
(Hsu, C. W. & Lin, C. J. 2002), this method is used for 
wafer defect pattern recognition in this study. 
 
3. PROPOSED APPROACH 
 
Wafers must be further analyzed to determine whether 
a specific defect pattern causes the medium or low yield. 
 6 
 
the adequate training and testing samples in the wafer 
defect diagnostic system. The proposed approach for the 
wafer defect diagnostic system can be described as follows: 
Step 1: Obtain the simulated defect wafer map. Utilize 
Borland Delphi programming language to simulate all 
possible defect clustering patterns for 8-inch wafers.    
Step 2: Calculate the values of all feature factors for 
each wafer. For each defect clustering pattern on a wafer, 
calculate these four feature factors ( D , ACV , DCV  and 
ECI ).  
Step 3: Build a GRNN yield model. Input the feature 
factors in Step 2 into the GRNN yield model. The actual 
yield of the wafer is the only output of the GRNN yield 
model. The percentage of the chip without defects on a 
wafer is used as the actual yield value of the wafer. In this 
study, the neural networks package NeuroShell 2 is 
employed to train and test the GRNN network. 
Step 4: Build a multi-class SVM classifier. These four 
identical feature factors are suggested for recognizing 
defect patterns. A multi-class SVM classifies wafer defect 
patterns by employing these four feature factors as inputs 
and one of five defect patterns as output. In this study, the 
LIBSVM is employed to train and test the multi-class SVM 
(Chang, C. C. & Lin, C. J. (2004)(Hsu, C. W. & Lin, C. J. 
2002). 
Step 5: Diagnose the wafers with medium or low yield. 
Input the wafers with medium or low yield predicted in 
Step 3 to the trained multi-class SVM in Step 4. Wafers can 
be further analyzed to determine whether a specific defect 
pattern causes the medium or low yield.  
 
4. IMPLEMENTATION 
4.1 Simulation Study 
 
This study employs three design factors to simulate 
defect cluster patterns in 8-inch wafers: defect number, 
percentage of defects located in grey regions and size of 
grey regions. Defect number is the number of defects 
distributed over the entire wafer. Five factor levels for 25, 
50, 100, 200 and 300 defects are simulated. Percentage of 
defects located in grey region represents the defect-dense 
areas on a wafer. In the four clustering patterns, four factor 
levels for 80%, 85%, 90% and 95% are simulated, and the 
remaining defects are distributed randomly. Three sizes of 
grey regions considered are 25, 49 and 81 cm2.  
According to the above three design factors. Each 
trial of factor-level combination is replicated five times, to 
obtain 1225 simulation trials. Specifically, there are 1225 
simulated wafer maps. The 1225 simulated wafer maps 
were utilized as samples for constructing the wafer defect 
diagnostic system. The 1225 wafers were divided into two 
parts: one part containing 980 wafers used to train the 
diagnostic system; the second part containing 245 wafers 
used to test the accuracy of the diagnostic system. Four 
feature factors ( D , ACV , DCV  and ECI ) are obtained 
for each simulation wafer by simple calculation. These four 
feature factors are utilized as inputs, the respective yield 
and defect pattern of the 1225 wafer maps are utilized as 
outputs for the proposed diagnostic system. The trained 
diagnostic system can then be further analyzed to determine 
whether a specific defect pattern causes the medium or low 
yield.   
Software utilized in this study for GRNN network 
was the neural networks package NeuroShell 2 and for 
multi-class SVM was LIBSVM (Hsu, C. W. & Lin, C. J. 
2002). To obtain the generalization results, five-fold cross-
validation was used to determine optimal parameter 
combinations. In this study, the unique parameter of GRNN 
network, that is, the smoothing factor, is set at 0.0722, and 
the penalty parameter and the kernel parameter for multi-
SVM were 8192 and 0.125, respectively.  
Extra 10 wafer maps are simulated to show the 
reproductive performance of the proposed diagnostic 
system. Table 1 summarizes the attributed values for these 
10 wafers. The attributed value of GRNN predicted yield 
column show that wafer 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 present the 
medium or low yield. These wafers must be further 
analyzed to determine whether a specific defect pattern 
causes the phenomenon of yield down. Table 2 shows the 
actual defect pattern and the respective pattern recognized 
by the multi-class SVM for these 6 wafers. Table 2 reveals 
that the proposed approach produces a good diagnostic for 
the wafers with medium or low yield. 
 
5. CONCLUSION 
 
This study presents a novel diagnostic system that 
utilizes a GRNN network for predicting wafer yield and 
utilizes a multi-class SVM for recognizing wafer defect 
patterns. A simulated case is applied to demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the proposed model. 
The merits of the proposed approach are summarized 
as follows: 
1. The proposed method utilizes four relevant feature 
factors: D , ACV , DCV  and ECI  as input for 
constructing the wafer defect diagnostic system. The 
diagnostic results show that the proposed method achieves 
accurate diagnostic. 
2.  The proposed system can be integrated with KLA 
inspection machines to diagnose wafers presenting medium 
or low yield. 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
KreBel, U. (1999). Pairwise classification and support 
vector machines. Advances in kernel methods: Support 
Vector Learning (pp. 255-268). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 
Nieddu, L. & Patrizi, G. (2000). Formal methods in pattern 
recognition. European Journal of Operation Research, 
120(3), 459-495. 
Okabe, T., Nagata, M. & Shimada, S. (1972). Analysis of 
yield of integrated circuits and a new expression of the 
yield. Electrical Engineering in Japan, 92(12), 135-141. -
17 
Parzen, E. (1962). On estimation of a probability density 
function and mode. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 
33(3), 1065-1076. 
Platt, J. C., Cristianini, N. & Shawe-Taylor, J. (2000). 
Large margin DAGs for multiclass classification. In: 
Advances in neural information processing systems (pp. 
547-553). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 
Raghavachari, M., Srinivasan, A. & Sullo, P. (1997). 
Poisson mixture yield models for integrated circuits: A 
critical review. Microelectronics Reliability, 37(4), 565-580. 
Specht, D.F. (1991). A general regression neural network. 
IEEE Trans. Neural Networks, 2(6), 568-576. 
Stapper, C. H., Armstrong, F. M. & Saji, K. (1983). 
Integrated circuit yield statistics. Proceedings of the IEEE, 
71(4), 453-470. 
Stapper, C.H. (1973). Defect density distribution for LSI 
yield calculations. IEEE Transaction on Electron Devices 
(Correspondence), 20(7), 655-657. 
Stapper, C.H. (1991). On Murphy’s yield integral. IEEE 
Trans. on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 4(4), 294-297.-24 
Stapper, C. H., & Rosner, R. J. (1995). Integrated circuit 
yield management and yield analysis: Development and 
implementation. IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor 
Manufacturing, 8(2), 95-102.-25 
Stapper, C.H. (1985). The effects of wafer to wafer defect 
density variations on integrated circuit defect and fault 
distributions. IBM Journal of Research Development, 29(1), 
87-97.-26 
Tyagi, A., & Bayoumi, A.M. (1992). Defect clustering 
viewed through generalized Poisson distribution. IEEE 
Trans. on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 5(3), 196-206.-27 
Vapnik, V. (1998). Statistical learning theory. New York: 
Wiley. 
計畫成果自評 
 
1. 本研究可提供後續學術研究於選擇晶圓表
面缺陷特徵時的參考。 
2. 本研究構建之整合良率預估及缺陷樣式辨
識之晶圓缺陷診斷系統未來可與晶圓缺陷
檢測掃瞄器KLA機台整合應用於IC生產線
上。當製程呈現中、低良率時，可即時追
蹤發生原因，以進一步做診斷改善。再
者，製程工程師亦可在晶圓完成製造並經
由檢測後，藉由位元圖得到的不良晶片資
訊與本研究於每個關鍵製程的診斷做比
對，以分析可能導致該晶片不良的原因，
儘速進行改善措施。 
3. 對於參與之工作人員，預期可獲之訓練。 
(1) 熟悉於本研究計畫中所利用之各項套裝軟
體。 
(2) 熟悉GRNN網路、BPNN網路、RBF網路與
SVM之相關知識。 
(3) 熟悉晶圓製程以及各種晶圓良率模式與缺
陷樣式辨識技術。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/03/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 整合良率預估及缺陷樣式辨識之晶圓缺陷診斷系統
計畫主持人: 趙豊昌
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-434-001- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
