line. In this study the rectangular-spiral-shaped portion is selected
to be a uniform line having width and gap of W and G, respec-
tively. The grounded substrate has a thickness of h and relative
permittivity r, on which a ground plane with dimensions of Lg 
Wg is printed in the bottom of microwave substrate. It is used as a
circuit board for another design consideration for designer to
integrate with their own designs in order to extend the antenna
acceptance in different applications or markets to increase the
RFID antenna’s value. The rectangular-spiral-shaped portion is
centered above the microwave substrate, with a shorting pin and
feed position at point B (has the length of L1 from point A to point
B) and C (has the length of L2 from point A to point C), respec-
tively. The meander-shaped portion is composite with feed net-
work component (including L3, L4, L5, L6, and L7) for achieving
good impedance matching for the proposed dual-frequency oper-
ation and a ﬁxed length antenna’s arm with uniform width except
the end section, which has rectangular shape for adjusting resonant
band width. The optimal dimension of end section is found in the
present study to be about 4  2 mm2.
3. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Prototypes of the proposed antenna were constructed and studied.
The inexpensive FR4 substrate r  4.4, h  0.4 mm with a
ground-plane size of 19  43 mm2 were used in the study. Figure
2 shows the measured return loss of the constructed prototypes of
rectangular-spiral-shaped portion operation at f1 (13.56 MHz), and
Figure 3 presents the measured return loss of meander-shaped
portion operation at f2 (2.45 GHz).The impedance bandwidth
(input return loss  10 dB), 0.75% for the frequency f1 and 5.5%
for the frequency f2 has been obtained. The rectangular-spiral-
shaped portion and the meander-shaped portion had a total length
of 2573 mm and 31 mm, respectively. The corresponding proposed
antenna using in RFID with the complementary characteristics are
listed in Table 1. It is quite obvious that the complementary
characteristic has shown. The corresponding resonant frequency
application using in RFID are also listed in Table 2 for reference.
The radiation patterns characteristics were also studied. Figure 4
show the measured radiation patterns at the center operating fre-
quencies of f1 and f2, respectively. Measurements at other frequen-
cies within the two operating bands were also conducted, and the
measured results across each operating band showed similar radi-
ation patterns as those given in Figure 4. From the measured
results, it is seen that, in the x-y plane, the radiation patterns are
closer to omni-directional radiation patterns and the cross-polar-
ization levels are at least 25-dB lower. Also, the proposed antenna
nearly shows a monopole-like radiation pattern.
4. CONCLUSIONS
A dual-frequency antenna for RFID tags with complementary
characteristic has been proposed and studied. The two operating
frequencies are associated with the rectangular-spiral-shaped por-
tion and the meander-shaped portion, with the length of the pro-
posed being about 0.23  and 0.5 , respectively. Owing to the
printing of the proposed antenna at an appropriate arrangement, the
excited two resonant frequencies with complementary operation
mechanisms using in RFID antenna is obtained. Relatively band-
widths of the two frequencies are about 0.75% for the lower
TABLE 1 The Corresponding Proposed Antenna Using in RFID with Complementary Characteristics
Frequency
Characteristics
Coupling
Distance
Operation
Mechanisms
Effect by
Mental
Band
Width Penetration Interference
13.56 MHz short inductive coupling (near ﬁeld) Low small low sensitive
2.45 GHz long backscatter coupling (far ﬁeld) High large high robust
TABLE 2 The Corresponding Resonant Frequency
Application Using in RFID System
Frequency Applications
Small than 135 KHz LF Access control, animal
tracking etc.
13.56 MHz Proposed
Antenna
HF Smart cart, item level,
tracking, libraries etc.
433.92MHz
860–930MHz
UHF Pallet level, tracking, container
tracking, item level tracking
etc.
2.45 GHz Proposed
antenna
Microwave Item level tracking, baggage
handing etc.
5.8 GHz
Figure 4 Measured radiation patterns of the proposed antenna
DOI 10.1002/mop MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 49, No. 6, June 2007 1397
DUAL-FREQUENCY ANTENNA FOR
RFID TAGS WITH COMPLEMENTARY
CHARACTERISTIC
Jieh-Sen Kuo,1 Jyun-Jie Wang,2 and Chih-Yu Huang3
1 Department of Electronic Engineering, Kao-Yuan University,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 821, Republic of China
2 Department of Physics, National Kaohsiung Normal University,
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 824, Republic of China
3 Department of Electronic Engineering, National Kaohsiung Normal
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan 824, Republic of China
Received 26 October 2006
ABSTRACT: A novel dual-frequency Radio Frequency Identiﬁcation
(RFID) antenna with complementary operation mechanisms (two differ-
ent operation mechanisms: near ﬁeld and far ﬁeld operation) is pro-
posed. The proposed antenna is obtained by printing a rectangular-spi-
ral-shaped and a meander-shaped line, which is placed above on a
rectangular microwave substrate as a RFID tag’s antenna where its
ground plane is at the bottom of substrate. The proposed antenna is fed
by a 50  microstrip line printed on the same substrate, and the anten-
na’s two resonant frequencies can be excited with good impedance
matching. Closer to omni-directional radiation patterns and the lower
cross-polarization levels (at least 25-dB) are also obtained. © 2007
Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Microwave Opt Technol Lett 49: 1396–1398,
2007; Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.
com). DOI 10.1002/mop.22426
Key words: complementary, dual-frequency, antenna, RFID
1. INTRODUCTION
RFID systems are tremendous growth because of their wide ap-
plication ﬁeld, such as access control, baggage tracking, smart
card, pet tracking, etc. In these applications, data are contact-free
transferred to a local querying system (reader or interrogator) from
a remote transponder (tag) including an antenna and a microchip
transmitter. A proper antenna to these tags must have low proﬁle,
small size, and low fabrication cost [1]. It is necessary to achieve
more functional antennas for the rapid progress in wireless com-
munications, however, most workers have been done in single
frequency [2–5] but none discuss on dual-frequency with comple-
mentary operation mechanisms. In this article, we propose a prom-
ising design of a dual-frequency operation RFID antenna (see Fig.
1) with complementary operational mechanisms. The proposed
antenna has the same low-proﬁle and low cost characteristics. It is
easily obtained by printing a uniform microstrip line into a rect-
angular-spiral-shaped portion and a meander-shaped portion. With
the proposed design, the antenna’s two resonant frequencies can be
excited with good impedance matching. The two resonant frequen-
cies also have the same nearly a monopole-like radiation pattern.
Prototypes of the proposed antenna have been successfully con-
structed. Details of the proposed antenna and experimental results
of the prototypes are presented and discussed.
2. ANTENNA DESIGN
The geometry of the proposed RFID antenna is shown in Figure 1.
It has a dimensions of LW, and consists of a rectangular-spiral-
shaped portion (for near ﬁeld operation) and a meander-shaped
portion (for far ﬁeld operation) fed with a 50  microstrip feed
Figure 1 Geometry of the proposed high frequency ratio antenna for
RFID tags; r  4.4, h  0.4 mm, L  80 mm, W  50 mm, Lg  48 mm,
Wg  19 mm, W  0.6 mm, G  0.2 mm, L1  80 mm, L2  150 mm,
L3  5.3 mm (W  0.4 mm), L4  5.3 mm, L5  3.3 mm (W  0.4 mm),
L6  10 mm, L7  3.7 mm.(W  0.7 mm, W  2.1 mm)
Figure 2 Measured return loss against frequency of rectangular-spiral-
shaped portion operation at 13.56 MHz
Figure 3 Measured return loss against frequency of meander-shaped
portion operation at 2.45 GHz
1396 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 49, No. 6, June 2007 DOI 10.1002/mop
operating frequency and 5.5% for the higher operating frequency,
it is enough for RFID tag’s antenna application.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by the National Science Council, Tai-
wan, ROC, under contract NSC 95–2221-E-244–001-
REFERENCES
1. P. Foster and R. Burberry, Antenna problems in RFID systems, IEE
Colloq RFID Technol 123 (1999), 3/1–3/5.
2. G. Marrocco, Gain-optimized self-resonant meander line antennas for
RFID applications, IEEE Antennas Wireless Propag Lett 2 (2003),
302–305.
3. S.-Y. Chen and P. Hsu, CPW-Fed Folded-Slot Antenna for 5.8-GHz
RFID Tags, Electron Lett 40 (2004), 1516–1517.
4. M. Hirvonen, P. Pursula, K. Jaakkola, and K. Laukkanen, Planar in-
verted-F antenna for radio frequency identication, Electron Lett 40
(2004), 848–850.
5. Q. Xianming and Y. Ning, A folded dipole antenna for RFID, Proc.
IEEE Antenna Propag Soc Int Symp 1 (2004), 97–100.
© 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
PARALLEL COMPUTING EFFICIENCY
ANALYSIS OF BOR-FDTD CODE ON A
BEOWULF CLUSTER
Yongquan Lu,1 Rui Lu,1 Qing Che,1 Zhiwu Su,1 Wenhua Yu,2
and Raj Mittra2
1 Communication University of China, Beijing 100024, China
2 Electrical Engineering Department, Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, PA 16801
Received 5 November 2006
ABSTRACT: In this communication, we investigate the efﬁciency of a
parallel BOR-FDTD code on a commonly used Beowulf cluster which is
connected via an Ethernet or Myrinet networking system. The efﬁciency
of a parallel BOR-FDTD code is relatively high since it only requires
data exchanging between the processors on the subdomain boundary. A
satellite reﬂector antenna is simulated by using the parallel BOR-FDTD
code in order to verify the parallel code we developed. Numerical experi-
ments have demonstrated both software design and networking system play
an important role in the efﬁciency of parallel processing. © 2007 Wiley
Periodicals, Inc. Microwave Opt Technol Lett 49: 1398–1401, 2007;
Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com).
DOI 10.1002/mop.22423
Key words: parallel processing; efﬁciency analysis; networking; BOR-
FDTD
1. INTRODUCTION
Parallel processing has become one of the dominating techniques
to efﬁciently solve electrically large problems [1–3]. The fast
development of parallel processing techniques has partially bene-
ﬁted from the high performance PC cluster [4] and message
passing interface (MPI) [5, 6]. Parallel processing technique al-
lows us to use a group of processors and distributed memory to
solve the large problems. The BOR-FDTD XE “Parallel BOR
FDTD” algorithm is parallel in nature and has a relatively high
parallel efﬁciency since it only requires a 1-D data exchange
between the adjacent processors. In parallel processing techniques,
the jobs in each processor are not independent because adjacent
processors will share the common boundary information for the
ﬁeld update next to the sudomain boundary, hence, we need to use
the MPI functions to pass the subdomain boundary information
between the adjacent processors during a problem simulation.
However, the ﬁeld update inside each processor does not require
any information from other processors in the BOR-FDTD method.
Generally speaking, there are three major factors that affect on the
parallel processing efﬁciency, namely, physical model of a
method, data structure and organization inside computer memory,
and networking system used in a cluster. An explicit ﬁeld update
procedure is employed in a parallel BOR-FDTD algorithm and
only the ﬁeld information around the unknown point is required.
Since the data structure of a 2-D array inside computer memory is
different along the - and z-directions, the parallel efﬁciency for
the processors arranged along the - and z-directions has a signif-
icant difference [1]. Processor type and networking system also
play a very role in the parallel processing. In this communication,
we will ﬁrst brieﬂy introduce the parallel BOR-FDTD method,
then describe the platform the parallel code runs on, and ﬁnally
analyze the efﬁciency of BOR-FDTD code using two typical
networking systems. As an example, we use the parallel BOR-
FDTD code to simulate a reﬂector antenna with a point radiation
pattern.
2. PARALLEL BOR-FDTD METHOD
BOR-FDTD method is based on two curl Maxwell’s equations,
which can be written as [1]:
  E   
H
t
(1a)
  H  
E
t
	 
E . (1b)
The electric and magnetic ﬁelds with rotationally symmetric char-
acteristics can be expressed as follows [1]:
E ,,z,t  
m0

	E ,z,teven cosm	 E ,z,todd sinm
 (2)
H ,,z,t  
m0

	H ,z,teven cosm	 H ,z,todd sinm
.
(3)
Using its symmetric property in Eqs. (2) and (3), we can project a
3-D problem into a 2-D spatial coordinate system but still keep the
3-D ﬁeld components, which is a so-called 212-D problem as shown
in Figure 1.
For the sake of simplicity, we assume that the material being
simulated are nonmagnetic, and then using the conventional nota-
tions to express the -component of electric and magnetic ﬁelds in
the update scheme as:
Hn1/ 2i 	 1/ 2, j 	 1/ 2  Hn1/ 2i 	 1/ 2, j 	 1/ 2

t
i 	 1/ 2 E
ni 	 1/ 2, j 	 1  Eni 	 1/ 2, j
z j 
	
t

Ezni 	 1, j 	 1/ 2  Ezni, j 	 1/ 2i  (4)
1398 MICROWAVE AND OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY LETTERS / Vol. 49, No. 6, June 2007 DOI 10.1002/mop
表 Y04 
 
一、 參加會議經過（續） 
 
此次討會的主辦單位為國際電子電機工程師協會天線技術研討會 (IEEE 
International Workshop on Antenna Technologies），為一年一度經常性質的國際性研
討會。本年度投稿量達 500 餘篇，大會安排有論文報與研討場次。每篇論文報告
與討論時間為二十分鐘，同於每日中午時段進行論文報告與討論。其中有數個特
別議程，特別議程邀請具聲望且資深的教授就無線通訊的發展加以籌劃。與會人
員來自世界各國，足見該研討會之國際代表性。且各論文所探討的主題為目前該
學門中極具前瞻性的主題，更加突顯該研討會崇高的學術地位。除論文研討外，
大會所安排的 Keynote Speakers 來自日本、美國、丹麥的專家學者報告，又 invited speakers
分別來自 12 個世界各先進國家及論文各個專門研究報告及討論，其中包含我國
的專家學者張道志教授。我果與會的學者亦不在少數，足見我國在此一方面之成
就，已為國際學術界所肯定。 
 
 我國被接受發表的論文，包括來自高苑科技大學、大葉大學、青雲大學、元
智大學、大同大學、成功大學......等單位的教學研究人員。筆者的論文有一篇，
安排在3月21日(星期三)下午以壁報方式發表。 
  
研討會論文 
表 Y04 
別標籤設計受限於至製作體積，及電路饋入需要輕薄短小的要求下，在
這樣的厚度所製成的平面天線，電路饋入技術較為困難。其天線的結構
一般均以單極或是單偶極天線等方式來設計，由於體積較小，再加上使
用路徑摺疊之方式，而大幅縮小整體標籤體積。 
4.  商業化的分析軟體：數值分析一直是從事電磁研究工作者最重視的一項工作。
此次會議中有不少論文是在探討數值方法的改良情形。但亦由於各項條件配合
得宜，各種商業化的分析軟體如雨後春筍般地產生。且各軟體的計算分析能力
不能忽視，無論平面或曲面結構，商業化的分析軟體皆已具備雛形。如此將
大大減少電磁研究工作者在做數值分析時的工作量。更能加快研究工作
進行。 
 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
四、 建議 
 此次筆者赴英國參加 2007 IWAT 國際電子電機工程師協會天線與材料研討
會，首要感謝國科會在經費上的資助。遠赴國外參加學術會議發表論文，不僅可
以交換研究心得，而且可以了解世界各國的研究方向，獲益良多。國內的學術研
究水準每每在其他國家之上，建議國科會能多給予相關經費，尤其歐美各國所舉
辦的研討會，鼓勵更多的研究人員出國發表研究成果，刺激國內學術研究風氣，
提昇我國國際學術地位。 
 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
論文集合輯隨身碟一個，包括： 
1. 2007IWAT研討會論文集 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
表 Y04 
Antenna Design 
  
The geometry of the proposed high frequency RFID antenna is shown in Fig. 1. It has a dimensions of L × W, and 
consists of a rectangular-spiral-shaped portion (for near field operation) and a meander-shaped portion (for far field 
operation) fed with a 50 Ω microstrip feed line. In this study the rectangular-spiral-shaped portion is selected to be a 
uniform line having width and gap of W and G, respectively. The grounded substrate has a thickness of h and relative 
permittivity rε , on which a ground plane with dimensions of Lg × Wg is printed in the bottom of microwave substrate. 
It is used as a circuit board for another design consideration for designer to integrate with their own designs in order to 
extend the antenna acceptance in different applications or markets to increase the RFID antenna’s value.  
The rectangular-spiral-shaped portion is centered above the microwave substrate, with a shorting pin and feed position 
at point B (has the length of L1 from point A to point B) and C (has the length of L2 from point A to point C), 
respectively. The meander-shaped portion is composite with feed network component (including L3, L4, L5, L6 and L7) 
for achieving good impedance matching for the proposed dual-frequency operation and a fixed length antenna arm with 
uniform width except the end section which has rectangular shape for adjusting resonant band width. The optimal 
dimension of end section is found in the present study to be about 4×2 mm2. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 
Prototypes of the proposed antenna were constructed and studied. The inexpensive FR4 substrate rε = 4.4, h = 0.4 mm 
with a ground-plane size of 19×43 mm2 were used in the study. Fig. 2 shows the measured return loss of the constructed 
prototypes of rectangular-spiral-shaped portion operation at f1 (13.56 MHz), and Fig. 3 presents the measured return 
loss of meander-shaped portion operation at f2 (2.45 GHz).The impedance bandwidth (input return loss > 10 dB), 0.75 
% for the frequency f1 and 5.5 % for the frequency f2 has been obtained. The frequency ratio in this design 
dual-frequency operation is about 180. The rectangular-spiral-shaped portion and the meander-shaped portion had a 
total length of 2573 mm and 31 mm, respectively. The corresponding resonant frequency characteristic using in RFID 
are also listed in Tab. 1 for reference. The radiation patterns characteristics were also studied. Fig.4 show the measured 
radiation patterns at the centre operating frequencies of f1 and f2, respectively. Measurements at other frequencies within 
the two operating bands were also conducted, and the measured results across each operating band showed similar 
radiation patterns as those given in Fig. 4 (x-y plane shows here only and the rest will be present at symposium). From 
the measured results, it is seen that, in the x-y plane, the radiation patterns are closer to omni-directional radiation 
patterns and the cross-polarization levels are at least 25-dB lower. Also, the proposed antenna nearly shows a 
monopole-like radiation pattern. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
A high frequency ratio RFID antenna has been proposed and studied. The two operating frequencies are associated with 
the rectangular-spiral-shaped portion and the meander-shaped portion, with the length of the proposed being about 
0.23λ and 0.5λ, respectively. Owing to the printing of the proposed antenna at an appropriate arrangement, the excited 
resonant frequency ratio is about 180 with two different operation mechanisms using in RFID antenna. Relatively 
bandwidths of the two frequencies are about 0.75 % for the lower operating frequency and 5.5 % for the higher 
