effective, leading to a strong local corrosion 
attack. As illustrated by many reports [9-12], 
the corrosion attack on coated materials can 
be reduced by the deposition of multi-layered 
coatings. PVD multi-layers can even be a 
remarkable structure design in reducing the 
corrosion attack. The improvement of the 
corrosion resistance by multilayered coatings 
is due to the reduced number of pinholes, 
which can be fully blocked by corrosion 
products or by a lack of straight diffusion 
channels through the coatings.  
The austenitic stainless steels are the 
most popular materials because of their 
relatively low cost, ease of fabrication and 
reasonable corrosion resistance. The 
austenitic stainless steels are prone to be used 
as a bipolar plate of the proton exchange 
membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) [13]. However, 
when in direct contact with the acid 
electrolytic membrane of PEMFC, stainless 
steels used in the long-term applications 
attacked by the aggressive acid solution 
cause a major disadvantage. Many reports 
have recently revealed that some coatings 
deposited on the stainless steels could be a 
promising bipolar plate to satisfy commercial 
applications of PEMFC [13-15]. The 
coatings investigated so far are either 
metallic or metallic-based compounds, like 
oxides and nitrides. On the other hand, due to 
long-termed performance requirements, 
corrosion resistance as well as electrical 
conductivity of coatings is needed for 
metallic bipolar plates of PEMFC. 
 The goal of this study is to improve the 
corrosion resistance of stainless steels by 
depositing TiN/CrN based multi-layered 
coatings. All of the coatings were deposited 
by using cathodic arc plasma deposition. This 
study will focus on the properties of 
multi-layered coated stainless steels- 
including microcrystalline structure, 
corrosion resistance and electrical resistance. 
The TiN and CrN single layers will also be 
studied for comparison purpose. 
4. Experiments 
A typical opposed-cathode chamber used 
to deposit multi-layers is schematically 
drawn in Fig. 1. The substrates are mounted 
on a turn table, which is made large enough 
so that no cross contamination of the emitted 
fluxes occurs. In this system, the reactive gas 
is introduced through a manifold in front of 
each target. The partial pressure of the 
reactive gas is then controlled by a mass flow 
meter, and the flow of gas (i.e. N2 and Ar) 
through each manifold can be introduced 
independently, to satisfy the needs of each 
depositing material. Many different nitrides, 
including TiN, CrN and even multi-layered 
TiN/CrN, CrN/Ti have been successfully 
deposited by using this type of chamber.  
Polished cermet and type 316 stainless 
steel were used as substrates. The cermet 
substrate is easy to fracture so that it can be 
used to observe the fracture cross-section of 
the coatings. Specimens made of type 316 
stainless steel of 2mm in thickness were 
machined into dimensions of 30 x 30 mm2 
for corrosion tests. Prior to PVD treatment, 
the average surface roughness of substrates 
was measured to be approximately 0.1 µm. 
After thorough wet cleaning in an ultrasonic 
bath with ethanol, the samples were affixed 
to chamber holders and the chamber pressure 
was pumped down to 0.01Pa. The substrates 
were then further cleaned by high-energy Ar 
ion bombardment at -1000 V bias with total 
pressure of 0.1 Pa to ensure a clean surface 
of the substrate. Both Ti and Cr were used as 
target materials that could interact with 
nitrogen gas to form TiN and CrN coatings, 
on the other hand, Ti layer was obtained by 
introducing Ar gas in front of the Ti source. 
Various coatings with multi-layered 
structures were synthesized by rotating the 
substrate holder. Details of the deposition 
process parameters are listed in Table I. 
The electrical resistance of various 
coatings was measured before the corrosion 
tests. The test setup referred to the Turner’s 
work [16] was achieved by using two copper 
plates as electrode. In order to obtain the 
electrical resistance of the coatings, the 
electrical resistance of a bare stainless steel 
was measured for correction. Therefore, the 
resistances of the coatings were obtained by 
correcting the electrical resistance of bare 
stainless steel. The DC potentiodynamic tests 
 2
specimens. Stainless steel with higher Ecorr 
enables a nobler electrode potential to be 
initially achieved - indicating the forming of 
a passive oxide layer on the stainless steel. 
Similar trends of Ecorr in all coated specimens 
suggested inert behavior in H2SO4 solution, 
no matter single or multi-layer coatings. 
Corrosion current density is commonly 
utilized as an index to evaluate the kinetics of 
corrosion resistance. The corrosion rate is 
normally proportional to the corrosion 
current density measured through anodic 
polarization test. In this study, as shown in 
Table III, once the corrosion potential has 
been surpassed, the bare stainless steel 
substrate corroded far more quickly than all 
of the coated specimens, and finally 
measured a corrosion current density of 
19.9µA/cm2. The examination of the current 
density of coated specimens indicated a 
significant reduction of the current density. 
The CrN single layer exhibited better 
corrosion resistance than the TiN single layer, 
in accord with the findings of another 
research [7]. The S3 TiN/CrN coated 
specimen had the lowest current density, 
implying that multi-layers provide better 
corrosion resistance than single layers. 
However, the increase of corrosion current 
density of S4 CrN/Ti specimens resulted in 
the lower corrosion resistance of Ti layers, as 
compared to that of the TiN/CrN specimens. 
On the other hand, as compared to CrN, S3 
TiN/CrN and S4 CrN/Ti specimens exhibited 
better corrosion resistance with lower 
corrosion current, mainly due to 
multi-layered structure inhibiting the direct 
path between a corrosive environment and 
the substrate. In sum, the lower corrosion rate 
of the coated substrate can be easily 
explained by the shielding protection of the 
substrate due to more noble coating materials. 
Also, multi-layered coating blocks the 
pinholes into the substrate. Figure 5 shows 
the performance of the PEM fuel cells using 
bipolar plate at various operation conditions. 
6. Conclusions 
1. By rotating the substrate holder, various 
multi-layered coatings were easily 
deposited by using cathodic arc plasma 
deposition. TiN/CrN, CrN/Ti 
multi-layered coatings can be obtained 
by independently controlling the N2 and 
Ar gases introduced through a manifold 
in front of each target. The electrical 
resistance of the coatings depends on 
the bi-layer structures - Ti layer in the 
coatings exhibiting better electrical 
conductivity.  
2. When analyzing the polarization curves, 
all the coated samples present a better 
corrosion resistance than the bare 
stainless steel substrate. The TiN/CrN 
and CrN/Ti multi-layered coatings 
provided the best corrosion resistance 
for the coated stainless steels. 
3. The 72-hour immersion test in 10 Vol.% 
H2SO4 solution indicated better 
behaviors of TiN/CrN and CrN/Ti 
multi-layered coatings than that of TiN 
coating. Thus, as regards the coating 
with the higher corrosion and lower 
electrical resistance, the best candidates 
for PEMFC bipolar plate application are 
the CrN/Ti multi-layered coatings 
presented in this study. 
7. Reference 
1. W. D. Sproul, Surf. & Coatings 
Technolog., 81 (1996) 1-7. 
2. E. J. Bienk, N. J. Mikkelsen, Wear, 207 
(1997) 6-9. 
3. B. Navinšek, P. Panjan, Surf. & Coatings 
Technolog., 74-75 (1995) 919-926. 
4. T. Hurkmans, D. B. Lewis, J. S. Brooks, 
W. D. Münz, Surf. & Coatings 
Technolog., 86-87 (1996) 192-199. 
5. L. Cunha, M. Andritschky, K. Pischow, Z. 
Wang, A. Zarychta, A.S. Miranda, A.M. 
Cunha, Surf. & Coatings Technolog., 
133-134 (2000) 61-67. 
6. D. Y. Wang, K. W. Weng, Surf. & 
Coatings Technolog., 156 (2002) 
195-200. 
7. M.A.M. Ibrahim, S. F. Korablov, M. 
Yoshimura, Corr. Science, 44 (2002) 
815-828. 
8. J. Vetter, R. Knaup, H. Dwuletzki, E. 
Schneider, S. Vogler, Surf. Coat. 
Technol., 86-87 (1996) 739. 
9. C. Liu, A. Leyland, Q. Bi, A. Matthews, 
 4
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 94-2212-E-451 -001  
計畫名稱 高性能燃料電池金屬雙極板之研究與開發  
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
黃鎮江/明道管理學院材料暨系統工程研究所教授 
會議時間地點 07/17/2005~07/22/2005，美國舊金山的 Westin St. Francis 飯店 
會議名稱 夏季熱傳會議/ASME Summer Heat Transfer Conference 
發表論文題目 Heat Transfer in a Fuel Cell Cathode 
 
一、參加會議經過 
2005 美國機械工程師學會夏季熱傳會議（ASME Summer Heat Transfer Conference）已於
94 年 7 月 17 日至 22 日在美國舊金山的 Westin St. Francis 飯店舉行，主辦單位為美國機械工
程師學會(ASME)，該會議為一國際性熱傳工程之年度盛會之一，每年固定在北美地區（含美
國及加拿大）舉辦一次。本次會議與 InterPACK’2005 共同舉辦，因此，參予人員多了，因此
比起以往要熱絡許多。 
此次大會來自全世界三十餘國及地區，總計超過五百人與會。根據大會資料顯示，參與
會議的人員有 25%是來自工業界與政府機構的 R&D 人員，而 75% 則是來自一般學術或研究
機構的研發人員，從國家來區分，參予人原有 58%是來自美國本土，其餘 42%則是來自世界
各地。會議主題包含了微機電(MEMS)與奈米機電(NEMS)的整合與封裝，而有關新能源部分
尤其是燃料電池也是研討會新興的研究主題之一，研討會論文分成二十五項子題，總計超過
六百餘篇論文，其中包括來自中華民國台灣的六篇文章，筆者於 7 月月 17 日晚上出發，搭乘
馬來西亞班機飛往洛杉磯再租車前往會場。此次會議，大會共安排了 3 場專題講座，主講者
與講題分別如下 
第一場 
