2 
channel, blocking the flow inside. Assembling 
three valves in a series, it can be fabricated the 
peristaltic pumps. Currently, a rotary pump has 
been reported to effectively transport and mix 
the samples by using four controllable 
membranes in a circular channel. Owing to this 
standpoint, many pneumatic valves and 
micropumps for detecting or manipulating 
microfluids have been integrated in bio-sensing 
chips. However, peristaltic pumps or rotary 
pumps need to be fabricated by three PDMS 
layers.  
In this study, a new micro-pump utilizing the 
3-pair moving-wall structures by buried side 
chambers was successfully demonstrated to 
transport the sample stream. The moving wall 
structures were designed to be pneumatically 
deflected by external compressed air controlled 
by EMVs, to dynamically squeeze in a series 
and to induce the flow stream to pass through 
the micro-channel. Furthermore, two operation 
modes named single- and double-side wall 
actuation were employed to generate the 
transporting effect. Additionally, a numerical 
model was used to predict the membrane 
deformation and to experimentally validate. 
Moreover, a numerical simulation was also used 
to investigate the deformation mechanism and to 
facilitate the optimal design of the micropump. 
The proposed micro-pump could be crucial for 
the transportation of the microfluidics and could 
be used for micro-total-analysis-systems. 
 
2. DESIGN AND EXPERIMENT 
2.1 Design 
The major contribution of the current study is 
to propose a new design of pneumatic buried 
side chambers placed orthogonal to the 
microchannel to construct controllable moving 
wall structures to generate a transporting effect. 
Figure 1 shows a schematic representation of the 
micro-pump utilizing the 3-pair single-side ( Fig. 
1(a)) or double-side (Fig.(1(b)) moving wall 
structures. The transporting region between the 
six buried side-chambers and the flow channel 
was formed by the controllable moving wall 
structure. While the side chambers are 
imported/exported pneumatically by the 
compressed air controlled by EMs, the moving 
wall can be squeezed in a series and induce the 
flow field to generate the transporting effect as 
shown in Figure 2. In principle, the deformation 
quantity of the moving wall structure can be 
precisely controlled by utilizing different 
applied pressures.  Similarly, the frequencies of 
the moving wall deformation can also be 
controlled by operating the frequencies of 
electromagnetic valves (EMV) to control the 
importation/exportation frequency of the 
compressed air injected into the buried side 
chambers to generate a effective pumping rate.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Schematic representation of the proposed 
micropump using 3-pair moving structures of 
(a)single- and of (b) double-side modes, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 A series of schematic graphs illustrated the 
processes of pumping by using 3-pair double-side 
mode micropump. 
 
2.2 Fabrication  
Figure 3 shows a simplified fabrication 
process of the SU-8 master mold and the 
replication process of the PDMS structure. First, 
a layer of SU-8 photoresist (MicroChem Corp., 
MA, USA) with a thickness of 250µm was spun 
onto a silicon substrate. SU-8 is a suitable 
material for the master mold of the PDMS 
casting process due to its excellent structural 
robustness, good adhesion to the silicon 
substrate, and easy production of 
high-aspect-ratio structures. The SU-8 master 
(a) 
(b) 

(a) (b) (c) 
(d) (e) (f) 
4 
module as well as the deformation module. The 
moving boundary of the membrane was 
discretely separated to allow smooth motion. 
The deformed grid of the moving boundary was 
accomplished using the auto remesh function in 
the deformation process. Dense grids were used 
in the regions of the moving boundary, where 
the deformation was induced by the buried side 
chamber. The material properties described as 
below: The density (ρ) + Young’s module 
(E) ,and Poisson’s ratio (ν) of PDMS are 970 
kg/m3, 740kPa, and 0.5, respectively.  A 
stringent residuals criterion (less than 10−8) 
between each iterative solution step was used to 
guarantee the convergence of the solution.  
 
3.2 Numerical simulation validation 
Figure 5 shows numerically the deformation 
contours of (a) X-Z cross-sectional and (b) Y-Z 
cross-sectional surfaces for the applied air 
pressure of 10, 20, 30, and 40 psi. In our 
simulations, the Young’s module is measured to 
be a constant of 740 kPa, the simulation results 
implied that the deformations increase 
nonlinearly with the applied air pressures 
increase. However, the simulations were in 
reasonably agreements with the experimental 
data. However, the simulation results can be 
used to optimize the design of the proposed 
device. As we known in the double-side actuated 
mode, the membrane was designed to be the 
plateau profile of moving wall structure when 
the driving air pressures were applied. The 
numerical simulations can be facilitated to 
design the ratio of the axial distance and depth. 
From the simulation results, the plateau profile 
appeared as the ratio of the axial distance and 
depth (X/W) is 6.0. Hence, the optimum design 
of the proposed micropump is that the axial 
length and depth are 1500 and 250 µm, 
respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 (a) X-Z cross-sectional and (b) Y-Z 
cross-sectional surfaces numerical deformation of the 
controllable moving walls by applying different air 
pressures of (i)10, (ii)20, (iii)30, and (iv)40 psi, 
respectively. 
 
3.3 Deformation validation 
The deformation of the moving wall structure 
under different operated pressures was then 
experimentally investigated. The moving wall 
area is defined between the pneumatic side 
chamber and the sample flow channel. Therefore, 
the deformation of the moving wall structure can 
be controlled by the applied pressure inside the 
pneumatic side chamber. As shown in Figure 6, 
the deformation of the controllable moving 
walls by applying air pressures of 10, 20, 30, 
and 40 psi are presented. T As we expected, the 
maximum deformation increase with the 
increasing applied pressure. he experimental 
observations exhibit the plateau profile as the 
same as the simulation results. Consequently, 
the experimental results revealed that the higher 
applied pressure can provide a higher 
deformation of the moving wall structure to 
generate greater induction of the sample stream. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 The experimental deformation of the 
controllable moving walls by applying different air 
pressures of (i)10, (ii)20, (iii)30, and (iv)40 psi, 
respectively.  
 
Figure 7(a) shows the deformation profiles for 
the numerical calculation and experimental data. 
The comparison results reveal that the 
deformation profiles of the moving membrane 
by numerical calculation are reasonably 
agreements with the measured data. However, 
the deformation of numerical simulations are 
larger than the experimental ones at the plateau 
profile (i.e., 300~1200 µm). 
 
Figure 7 (b) exhibits the relationship between 
maximum deformation and the external 
pressures for the numerical calculations and 
experimental measurements. The numerical 
(i)  (ii)  
(iii) (iv) 

(i) 
(ii) 
(iv) 
(iii) 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iv) 
(iii) 

0         20        40         60        80        100        1 20       140  µm 
(a) (b) 
