 2 
channel spectra and achieves a throughput of nearly 
5000 pulses per second. 
 
3.  SPECTRUM ANALYSIS 
The PDA SPECTROMETER allows extensive and 
practical data analysis to be performed, so that final 
results may be displayed and printed. These analysis 
capabilities are described in detail in this section. A 
summary of spectrum analysis capabilities are peak 
search, spectrum zooming, peak area calculation, 
isotope search, activity  and dose rate calculation.  
Figure 4 is the flow chart for spectrum analysis.   
3.1. Data Analysis 
Data analysis includes peak identification, spectrum 
zooming, region of interest selection, and peak area 
calculation.  Because of the limited calculation power 
of the PDA, it is not the intention of the present work 
to do automatic and sophisticated spectrum analysis as 
in the conventional spectrum analysis packages.   
Figure 5 is an example of a measurement of Co60 
spectrum.  Peak identification is done manually by 
performing spectrum zooming at first.  As shown in 
Fig. 6, peak area calculation is done by selecting the 
boundary of the region of interest (ROI) manually.   
The peak area is calculated by subtracting 
background with a straight line drawn between the end 
points of the ROI set about the peak  End point 
averaging over a number of channels is provided to 
reduce the error when background has a large 
fluctuation. The error in the net area, including 
uncertainty in background, is also calculated.  Once 
the peak and region of interest are determined, the peak 
location and its peak area are stored for activity 
calculation with pre-stored efficiency calibration data.   
 
3.2. Nuclide Analysis 
Nuclide Library provides a gamma library of over 
100 isotopes and hundreds of gamma emissions.  The 
nuclide library also includes the energy, half-life, and 
branch ratio associated with the isotopes.   Data editing 
can be performed with a windows based library 
configuration program running on PDA.   Multiple 
library files for different applications can be maintained 
in the host computer and download for specific 
applications.  The user can select the nuclide library 
from the menu bar on the PDA screen. 
To speed up nuclide search, user can provide 
interested energy range and half-life range.  The energy 
range is specified using the Energy (keV) and the 
Window (± keV) entries.  The Energy (keV) entry 
specifies the selected peak energy.   For example, Fig. 
7 is an energy calibration result stored in the PDA 
spectrometer.  If a gamma ray peak appears at channels 
near 1331 keV where energy calibration uncertainty is 
0.2 keV, the values for Energy (keV) and Window (± 
keV) entries would be 1331 keV and 0.2 keV, 
respectively.  
The half-life limits are used to eliminate potential 
nuclides in the sample that have too long or too short 
half-lives.  Only nuclides with half-lives within the 
limits are included in the search results.  A half-life 
range can always specified by simply entering lower and 
upper limits. Once constraints are specified, the program 
will search the database for nuclides that meet the 
selected criteria and present the search result in a text 
window.  Figure 8 demonstrates the search result with 
gamma energies from 50 keV to 150 keV with no 
constraints on half life range.. 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
A portable radiation spectrometer based on a PDA 
has been developed.  Special care was taken during 
design to achieve a handheld solution to minimize 
computation effort and maximize application capabilities 
by using modern embedded hardware technology.  The 
software can satisfy most of field applications and 
showed satisfactory results compared with conventional 
PC-based spectrometers. 
 
5. REFERENCES 
[1] João M. Cardoso1, Vitor Amorim1, Rui Bastos, Rui 
Madeira,J. Basílio Simões1 and Carlos M. B. A. 
Correia1, “A Very Low-Cost Portable Multichannel 
Analyzer”, IEEE Trans. Nucl. Sci., vol.41, 1031-1035 
(2001) 
[2] Paulo C. P. S. Simos and Joes C. Martins, “A New 
Digital Signal Processing Technique for Application in 
Nuclear Spectroscopy” , IEEE Trans. Nucl. Sci., Vol. 43, 
1804-1809 (1996)  
[3] H. H. Tseng, J. Y. Wu, and T. Y. Liaw, “A Pulse 
Width Analyzer for Portable Radiation Spectrometer and 
Dosemeter”, Intl. Conference on Radiation Dosimetry 
and Safety, Abs. No. 302, p.391-396, Mar.31-Apr.2, 
1997, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC 
[4].H. P. Chou, D. T. Lay, and H. W. Wang, (1999) “A 
Development of Digital Imaging System for Nuclear 
Radiography,” 4th Topical Mtg. on Industrial Radiation 
and Radioisotope Meas. and Appl., paper 16-1, 1999 
Raleigh, NC, USA. 
[5]]黃培城，周懷樸， ＂A Personal Digital Assistant 
Based Portable Radiation Spectrometer＂，國立清華大
學工程與系統科學系，碩士論文，2004. 
[6] H. H. Tseng, C. Y. Wang, and H. P. Chou, “A Novel 
Pulse Height Analysis Technique for Nuclear 
Spectroscopic and Imaging Systems,” The SPIE 50th 
Annual Meeting,Conference on Optical Engineering 
and Instrumentation, paper 5922-44 in Hard X-Ray and 
Gamma-Ray Detector Physics VII, July 31-Aug 6, 
2005. San Diego, CA, USA. 
 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4  Flow chart of data analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Fig. 7 Isotope energy calibration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NO 
Function Select 
YES
Spectrum Analysis 
Spectrum Library Load 
Peak Search 
Spectrum zooming 
Select_ROI 
Peak Area Calculation 
Energy/Isotope Search 
Efficiency/Activity 
Calculation 
Exit
Save Report 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 5 Example of the measurement of a Co-60 
spectrum 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Example of a region-of- interest analysis 
 
 
 
57Co133Ba
22Na
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Example of Isotope nuclide search 
137Cs
54Mn
60Co
60Co
0
50
100
150
200
250
0 500 1000 1500
peak energy(keV)
pe
ak
 ce
ntr
oid
(ch
an
ne
l)
出席「2006 核輻射量測及應用研討會」報告 
(2006 Symposium on Radiation Measurement and Applications  SORMA) 
周懷樸 
清華大學工程與系統科學系 
 
核輻射量測及應用研討會 (Symposium on Radiation Measurement and 
Applications SORMA) 於五月二十三日至五月二十六日在美國密西根州底特律市密西
根大學舉行，此一會議每四年舉行一次，是核輻射量測及應用專家的重點國際會議，今年
是第十一屆，是 911 恐怖攻擊後第一次舉辦，由於核輻射本身之敏感性及核輻射量測對反
恐應用之重要性，近年來各國對核擴散及核材料爆裂物偵檢特別重視，投入大量的研究經
費，對相關技術的發展方向及進展產生了重大影響，因此此一會議的舉行也受到美國國土
安全局(DHS Domestic Homeland Security Department)的重視，由核輻射偵檢辦公室(DNDO 
Domestic Nuclear Detection Office)贊助，在會議中特別增加了一個研討主題，探討核材料製
造及偵檢技術相關的議題。 
本次會議分為核輻射偵檢器材料及物理、核輻射量測技術及系統、核輻射應用三
大主題，共有二十餘個子題，二百餘篇論文，以口頭及展示方式發表，參加的學者專家百
餘人來自十餘國，規模雖不如本領域另一重要會議 IEEE學會之核科學年會(Nuclear Science 
Symposium NSS)，但有許多此領域的重量級學者專家參加，發表的論文也經過嚴格審查，
並將彙集刊登於的核輻射儀器與方法雜誌 (Nuclear Instrument and Method)，係一專題型的
國際會議 (Topical Meeting)。 
本人由國科會的計劃補助，幸能躬逢其會，可惜國內無其他學者參加，對岸倒是
有多人出席且發表論文，日本及韓國也有多人出席，尤其是韓國發表許多論文超越日本，
顯示該國核領域之發展受到重視。由於儀器的發展與應用在核輻射量測領域扮演十分重要
的角色，因此主辦單位安排了儀器廠商展出最新的量測與分析儀器及零組件，出席的廠商
均屬美歐日三地，也顯示此領域之獨占性。韓國及大陸極具企圖心，但整體技術仍有差距。 
 A Personal Digital Assistant Based Portable Radiation Spectrometer 
P.C. Huanga, H.P. Choua and K.B. Chenb 
aDepartment of Engineering and System Science, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
bNuclear Science and Technology Development Center, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, 30043                                                           
Elsevier use only: Received date here; revised date here; accepted date here 
Abstract 
A nuclear spectrometer based on a personal digital assistant (PDA) has been designed, built and tested.  We name the portable radiation 
spectrometer, PDA SPECTROMETER, which can be used for data acquisition and spectrum analysis in applications requiring dose and 
count rate as well as nuclide identification and activities.  A CPLD (Complex Programmable Logic Design) circuit block is built for data 
communication with personal computers through RS-232 serial interfaces, or a GPS unit. The architecture and the data acquisition block 
are optimized to accommodate high data throughput.  © 2001 Elsevier Science. All rights reserved 
Keyword : Nuclear Radiation Spectrometer; Portable Instrument; Personal Digital Assistant
1.  INTRODUCTION 
This paper presents a low-cost portable radiation 
spectrometer built on personal digital assistant (PDA) for 
radiation measurement.  Compared with other portable 
radiation spectrometer on market [1][2]which is based on 
microcontroller platform for data acquisition and 
spectrum analyzing, the present system can store more 
spectra and provide nuclide identification in applications 
such as medicine, astronomy, archaeology, and 
environment quality control.  The PDA based system has 
the advantages of low-power consumption, small size, 
color graphical display and handy communication 
interfaces.  In fact, the interest for a simple low-cost 
spectrometry system frequently arises in universities and 
laboratories for teaching and demonstration purposes as 
well as in applications where the portability and user 
friendliness is a major concern. 
 
2. SYSTEM DESIGN 
 
Figure 1 is the general configuration of the PDA 
spectrometer.  The spectrometer is designed to match with 
the Nuclear Instrument Module (NIM) standards.  It takes 
signal from an ADC output and performs graphic display 
and data analysis.  Hardware interface and graphic 
interface designs are described as follows. 
 
 2.1. Hardware Interface 
The hardware design is to provide interface between 
the ADC and PDA.  Figure 2 illustrate the block diagram 
of the interfacing circuit.  It consists of a control module 
for ADC control signal interface and a communication 
module for data output to PDA.  The interface is 
implemented using a Complex Programmable Logic 
Design (CPLD) circuit which was written using the 
Verilog software language.  Data output to PDA is 
accomplished through a RS-232 serial port.   
The CPLD software manages the data acquisition and 
communication, which is capable for both local onsite and 
remote host computer data communications.  A 
development tool is employed to integrate design entry, 
place and route, function simulation, timing analysis and 
circuit synthesis.  A global positioning system (GPS) 
interface module is also employed allowing for location 
identification in field applications.   
 
2.2. Graphic Interface 
The PDA based software performs spectrum 
acquisition and display.  We select Microsoft embedded 
Visual Tools as the development platform, which 
 
corresponding author: H. P. Chou  e-mail: hpc@ess.nthu.edu.tw 
 Submitted to Elsevier Science 3
Data 
Communication 
Module 
Detector 
Analog to 
Digital 
Interface 
Module
Signal 
Processing 
Module 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Fig. 1  Block diagram of a nuclear radiation spectrometer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Output ADC Input 
Clock BAUD Rate 
Output 
Control 
ADC 
Control 
Timing 
Control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2  The inner circuit architecture of hardware interface
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3  A manual displayed on the PDA SPECTROMETER 
  
--------------------------------------------------------------- 
