1 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ;成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
無母數管制圖偵測製程平均偏移與變異數改變之研究(I) 
 
計畫類別：;個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100－2221－E－025－003－ 
執行期間：  100 年 8 月  1 日至 101 年 7 月  31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：台中科技大學 會計資訊系 
 
計畫主持人：林裕章 
共同主持人：無 
計畫參與人員：陳怡欣、許毓茹、鄧雪妘、姜燕明、黃其杰 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：;精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  9  月  30  日 
 
 3
Keywords: median control chart, nonparametric control chart, EWMA control chart, statistical process 
control 
一、 報告內容 
(報告內容請依國科會結案報告格式撰寫，例如：前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論。
各節編號請自訂。) 
 
1. Introduction 
Traditionally, when designing control charts, one usually assumes that the measurements or collected 
data in the subgroup are normally distributed. However, this assumption may not be tenable in some 
production processes. Li et al.(2010) proposed two ways to address the problem caused by non-normality. The 
first one is to modify parametric control charts according to the underlying distribution, the second one is to 
use distribution-free control charts. Nonparametric or distribution-free control charts are useful in statistical 
process control when there is a lack of or limited knowledge about the underlying process distribution. Recent 
investigations of the nonparametric control charts based on median, Wilcoxon rank-sum statistic, 
Mann-Whitney statistic, Sign test statistic have been discussed.  
From the statistical point of view, when the data are non-normal and have the presence of outliers, 
median might be insensitive to outliers and used to provide a fairer representation of centrality of the data. 
Alloway and Raghavachari(1991) considered a Shewhart-type chart for the median of a continuous symmetric 
population, which was based on the Hodges-Lehmann estimator and associated confidence interval. 
Castagliola(2001) proposed an EWMA median control chart for monitoring the process sample median under 
normal distribution, but the discussion of the non-normality was not included. Chakraborti et al.(2004) studied 
the Shewhart-type median chart and derived the exact expression for its run-length distribution. Khoo(2005) 
proposed a Shewhart-type median control chart under contaminated normal distribution. Sheu and Yang(2006) 
proposed a generally weighted moving average (GWMA) median control charts for monitoring the process 
median. Moustafa(2009) proposed a Shewhart-type control chart base on the sample median and the median 
absolute deviation (MAD), the performances of this control charts are evaluated under four different 
distributions. Graham et al.(2010) proposed a Shewhart-type median control chart for monitoring the location 
of a continuous process distribution in a Phase I process control setting, where the control limits for a 
specified nominal false alarm probability were given from the multivariate hypergeometric distribution. 
However, the EWMA median control charts under non-normality were not evaluated and discussed in 
previous literature. 
 
2. The process distributions and performance measures  
2.1 The normal and non-normal distributions 
Borror et al.(1999), Stoumbos and Reynolds(2000), Lin and Chou(2007), Jones et al.(2009) and Li et 
al.(2010) studied the robustness of control charts to non-normality, where the gamma and student’s t 
 5
[ ] [ ] )()(1)(
)!1()!1(
!)(')( 11 yfyFyF
kk
nyGyg kk −− −−−== , (3) 
respectively.  
The expected value and variance of sample median X~  are 
mddyygyXE μ== ∫ ∞∞− )()~(  (4) 
and 
22 )()()~( mdmd dyygyXV σμ =−= ∫ ∞∞− , (5) 
respectively.  
When n is even, the c.d.f. and p.d.f. of sample median are very complex, and we do not prepare to discuss 
this case in the present study. 
 
3.2 The EWMA control chart based on sample median 
In the EWMA chart, the sample statistic considers the weighted average of the current and past sample 
points. It has been shown that the EWMA chart is very effective in detecting small mean shifts, e.g., Lucas 
and Saccucci(1990) and Borror et al.(1999). The ith sample statistic Zi of the EWMA median control chart is 
defined as  
iii XZZ
~)1( 1 λλ +−= − , for i=1,2,3…, (6) 
where λ  is a smoothing constant and 10 ≤< λ , and iX~  is the sample median for subgroup i. If λ =1, the 
EWMA control chart is reduced to a Shewhart-type control chart. 
Denote respectively UCL and LCL as the upper and lower action limits of the EWMA median control 
chart. If the sample point falls outside the action limits, then the process is considered out of control. In 
mathematical expression, the action limits are 
(LCL, UCL) mdmd L σλ
λμ −±= 2 , (7) 
where L is the action limit coefficient associated with the EWMA median control chart.  
 
3.3 The effect of non-normality on the false alarm of EWMA median charts 
In the present study, it may be concluded that the EWMA chart with a smaller λ  value has a relatively 
larger ARL0 value and consequently a lower false alarm rate. This result is expected, because the EWMA 
statistic is a linear combination of sample medians, and a small λ  indicates that more previous sample 
medians share the bulk of the total weight. Therefore, the EWMA statistic becomes “more normal” and more 
robust to the non-normality than the individual sample statistics. As one can see, the Shewhart-type median 
control chart (i.e., λ=1) generally has a relatively higher false alarm rate, especially as the underlying 
 7
underlying distribution is non-normal distribution. But the EWMA W chart has larger ARL1 and worse ability 
to detect large shifts. Thus, in practical application, the EWMA W control chart is a good choice for detecting 
the small shifts in mean under non-normality. 
 
5. Conclusions 
Non-normal data commonly exist in many industrial processes. In such situations, the median might be 
used to provide a fairer representation of the centrality of the data. In the present study, we use the normal, 
student’s t, gamma and lognormal distributions to evaluate the robustness of the EWMA median control charts 
to non-normality. Based on our study, when the process parameters are known, the EWMA median control 
chart is generally better than Shewhart-type median control charts in detecting small process shifts. However, 
the ability for the EWMA control chart in detecting large shifts is usually worse than the Shewhart-type 
median control chart. We also confirm that the EWMA control chart based on the sample mean is quite 
sensitive to heavy-tailed distribution and outliers, and the EWMA median control chart is less sensitive to 
extreme heavy-tailed distribution. On the other hand, a simulation study is presented to compare EWMA X , 
X~  and W (Wilcoxon Rank-Sum) control charts. Base on the results, the nonparametric or distribution-free 
control chart (e.g., Wilcoxon Rank-Sum chart) is generally effective against non-normality. 
 
二、參考文獻 
[1] Alloway, J. A., Reghavachari M. (1991) Control chart based on Hodges-Lehmann estimator. Journal of 
Quality Technology 23: 336-347. 
[2] Amin, R. W., Searcy, A. J. (1991) A nonparametric exponentially weighted moving averages control 
scheme. Communications in Statistics: Simulation and Computation 20: 1049-1072. 
[3] Bakir, S. T., Reynolds, M. R. Jr. (1979) A nonparametric procedure for process control based on within 
group ranking. Technometrics 21: 175-183. 
[4] Bakir, S. T. (2004) A distribution-free shewhart quality control chart based on signed ranks. Quality 
Engineering 16: 613-623. 
[5] Borror, C. M., Montgomery D. C., Runger G. C. (1999) Robustness of the EWMA control chart to 
non-normality. Journal of Quality Technology 31: 309-316. 
[6] Castagliola P. (2001) An X~ /R-EWMA control chart for monitoring the process sample median. 
International Journal of Reliability Quality and Safety Engineering 8(2):123-135. 
[7] Chakraborti S., Van der Lann P., Bakir S. T. (2001) Nonparametric control charts: An overview and 
some results. Journal of Quality Technology 33: 304-315. 
[8] Chakraborti S., Van der Lann P., Van de Wiel M. A. (2004)  A class of distribution-free control charts. 
Applied Statistics 53: 443-462. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/23
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 無母數管制圖偵測製程平均偏移與變異數改變之研究(I)
計畫主持人: 林裕章
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-025-003- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
