2measurements. A contour node, which is a generalized case
of an edge node, is dened as follows.
Denition 1: Denition of a contour node:
If the distance between a contour line of interest and a sensor
node is less than r (called the tolerance radius), then the sensor
node is a contour node for the contour line of interest.
If the sensor node density is higher than the Nyquist sampling
rate, we can estimate the location of the contour line based
on the probability of a sensor node to be a contour node.
Suppose that Si(k) is the signal value of a monitored physical
phenomenon, ni(k) the white Gaussian noise, Xi(k) the
measurement of the ith neighboring sensor node at time k
and Yi(k) the quantized value of Xi(k). Then, the received
data at the local fusion center can be written as
Ri(k) = QBi [Xi(k)] + nc,i(k), (1)
where QBi [·] is a quantization function with 2Bi levels,
Xi(k) = Si(k) + ni(k) and nc,i(k) is the equivalent noise
component induced by communication bit errors. As a result,
there are three data distortion sources, i.e., sensing, quantiza-
tion and channel distortions. To combat these distortions, the
probing range (or the data collection range), denoted by radius
R, can be larger than the tolerance range, denoted by radius
r, to increase the data diversity.
B. Model Parameters
In this subsection, we consider a practical system so as to
have a better idea of model parameters. From the data sheet
of the MICA2 mote [5], its barometric pressure, humidity and
temperature sensors have around ±1.5%, ±3.5% and ±0.5◦C
sensing errors at 25◦C, respectively. By some manipulations,
we nd that the SNR value with respect to the sensing noise
is greater than 29 dB. Thus, the impact of the sensing noise
on data quality is not a major issue.
Since the link quality can be affected by channel attenuation
seriously when the link distance is in the transitional region [4]
and channel noise might thus become the major interference
source, we need to gure out how large it is carefully.
According to [6], the radio chip of the MICA2 mote, Chipcon
CC1000, has a noise gure of 13 dB and equivalent bandwidth
of 30 KHz. Therefore, the channel noise power is −115.87
dBm at the ambient temperature 25◦C [7] while the maximal
transmission power of the MICA2 mote is 5 dBm. The log-
normal shadowing model provides high accuracy in modelling
the multi-path channel [8] so it can be used to illustrate how
large the SNR could be at the receiver side by combining it
with the aforementioned noise and transmission power. We
found that the average receiving SNR values are 9.95 dB
and 13.83 dB at the 25-meter and 20-meter link distances,
respectively, by the model.
We can draw two conclusions based on the above dis-
cussion. First, the channel noise could induce large data
degradation if the packet retransmission mechanism is not
used in the MAC layer. Second, based on the model in (1), a
proper data fusion algorithm can be used to mitigate the data
distortion effect and the quality of the received data can be
lowered to save the communication power. These two issues
will be discussed in the next section.
III. CROSS LAYER CONSIDERATIONS IN SYSTEM DESIGN
A. Physical and MAC Layers Consideration
Assuming that each hop of the K-hop data transmission can
be modelled by a binary symmetric channel with a different
bit error probability. With this model, the bit error probability
for a K-hop wireless data transmission can be calculated by
PK−hop(E) = 1− PK−hop(C) = 1−
K∏
i=1
(1− Pi(E)), (2)
where PK−hop(C) is the probability for the bit to be trans-
mitted correctly and Pi(E) is the bit error rate of the ith hop.
Since each item of the product is less than 1, the bit error
probability value will become larger as K (the hop number)
increases. Besides, the bit error probability is dominated by
the worst link.
The bit error rate (BER) of each hop can be computed from
the Eb/N0-to-BER mapping, which changes as the wireless
channel conditions, the modulation and the FEC (Forward
Error Correcting) schemes vary. The relationship between
SNR and Eb/N0 can be shown as
Eb
N0
= SNR− 10× log10
(
bit rate
bandwidth
)
(3)
However, for layers above the physical layer, the packet
reception rate (PRR) is of our main concern. According to
[4], if each bit error is independent, the PRR of a K-hop
transmission can be calculated with the knowledge of BER
by
PRRK−hop = [1− PK−hop(E)]8f , (4)
where f is the frame size. This independent bit error assump-
tion usually holds if a proper interleaving scheme is adopted.
We may use the non-coherent BFSK modulation over the
Rayleigh fading channel as an example. The BER is around
3 × 10−2 at Eb/N0 = 15 dB [9]. Then, the average number
of one-hop transmissions (including the transmission at the
rst round and re-transmission afterwards) for an error-free
receiving is as high as 11.44 when the frame length is 10
bytes. This number grows fast when the frame length or
the hop number increases. As a result, it demands a lot of
communication power to transmit an error-free data packet. If
we can lower the data quality requirement without affecting
the estimation performance much, the average number of
transmissions will decrease so that the communication power
can be saved. Let PAE be the acceptable bit error rate. Then,
the PRR can be written as
PRRK−hop,A =

[1− PK−hop(E) + PAE ]8f ,
if PK−hop(E) > PAE
1, otherwise.
(5)
If PAE = 1× 10−2, the average number of transmissions can
be reduced to 5.03, which is about one half of the original
one.
B. Adaptive Transmission with Cross-Layer Interaction
As discussed above, it is difcult to achieve both perfect
data quality and power efciency at the same time, especially
4SinceQBi [·] is not a linear function, the statistical properties of
Yi(k) cannot be obtained from the linear combination ofXi(k)
directly. Let ni(k) be Gaussian white noise. Then, P (Yi(k)|S)
can be calculated by
P (y = (Smin +
∆
2
) + (j − 1)×∆|S) (9)
= P{Smin + (j − 1)×∆ < X ≤ Smin + j ×∆|S}
= Q
(
(y − ∆2 )− S
σn
)
−Q
(
(y + ∆2 )− S
σn
)
,
where S is the signal value, X the measured data, y the
quantized measurement, j = 1, · · · , 2Bi the quantization
level, ∆ the quantization step, n the noise and Q(·) the tail
probability of a standard Gaussian distribution. The σn value
can be estimated by long-term noise power estimation locally.
If ni(k) is non-Gaussian white, P (Yi(k)|S) can be computed
as
P (y = (Smin +
∆
2
) + (j − 1)×∆|S) (10)
=
∫ Smin+j×∆−S
Smin+(j−1)×∆−S
fn(t)dt,
where fn(t) is the PDF of non-Gaussian noise. By combining
(6)-(9), we can determine the approximate probability for a
target sensor node to be a contour node for given quantized
measurements Yi(k). Depending on the received data quality
of Yi(k), the estimation performance may degrade due to
data distortion. In this situation, data diversity (i.e. more data
obtained from different sensor nodes) can be used to enhance
the performance.
When the sensor deployment is sparse, there is a possibility
that a contour node may not be detected even if the contour
line of interest does crossing its tolerance range as shown in
Fig. 4. To address this problem, the approximate probability
in (6) has to be modied. In Fig. 4, r is the tolerance radius
and dr is the distance between the target sensor node and its
farthest neighbor inside the tolerance range. The contour line
is missed by the target node when it passes through the slashed
region. Then, the probability that all sensor nodes are inside
the circular region with radius dr and the contour line crosses
the slashed region can be used to approximate the probability
that a contour node is missed due to the sparse sensor density.
The approximate probability can be calculated by
PP,r(dr) =
(
dr
r
)2Nr
× r − dr
r
, (11)
where Nr is the number of sensor nodes inside the tolerance
range and dr can be calculated by the coordinates of the sensor
nodes. Since dr < r, PP,r(dr) becomes smaller when N is
higher. In other words, it can be reduced if the sensor density
is higher. The probability, PP,R(dR), that the contour line of
interest crosses the probing range but the target node is missed
in detection can be derived in the same way by replacing r
and dr in (11) with R and dR respectively. Consequently, the
probability for a sensor node to be a contour node can be
Contour Line
Fig. 4. An example of an missed contour node.
modied as
P{E1|Y1(k), · · · , YN (k), D}
=
[(
1− P{E0,r|Y1(k), · · · , YNr (k)}
)× (1− PP,r(dr))]
×
[(
1− P{E0,R|YNr+1(k), · · · , YN (k)}
)
×(1− PP,R(dR))], (12)
where D represents the sensor deployment information. We
see from (12) that P{E1|Y1(k), · · · , YN (k), D} < 1 even if
all the measurements are accurate. Nevertheless, it approaches
1 when the sensor density becomes higher.
V. SIMULATION RESULTS
In our computer simulation, the signal is chosen to be a
linear function from Smin = 0 to Smax = 10 along the x-
axis with a constant slope 1. The sensing noise power σ2n
is 0.1, which gives 30dB SNR when the signal value is 10,
and it can be estimated accurately in a long-term manner. The
sensor density is 10 sensors/square. Thus, there are around 8
sensor nodes inside the range when the radio radius is 0.5.
Unless specied otherwise, the tolerance radius is 0.5 and the
probing radius is 0.75 are adopted in the experiments. We
attempt to detect the contour line with the signal value T = 5.
The number of quantization bits for each measurement is 10
by default, i.e. there are 210 quantization levels.
The BER Effect
The performance comparison for different bit error rates
over wireless channels is given in Fig. 5, where the x-axis
denotes the distance from the target sensor node to the contour
line of interest. The negative and positive values mean the
target node is located at the left- and right-hand side of the
contour line. The dot line shows the performance of an ideal
case, where all measurements are perfect and sensor density
is innitely large. The effect of the bit errors is shown in an
average fashion. For example, 0.01×10 bit error is added per
received data when the bit error rate (BER) is 0.01. However,
to observe the worst effect on the performance, the error is
added to the most signicant bit. We see from the gure that
the shape of the curve deviates from the ideal one when the
bit error rate increases. We can choose the maximal acceptable
BER to be around 5×10−3. Then, the data quality requirement
for the MAC layer can be lowered to 5 × 10−3 when the
number of quantization bit for one measurement is 10.
The Quantization Bit Effect
