 2
Study on metallic hole arrays with extraordinary 
transmission and their applications 
異常增強穿透金屬孔洞陣列的物理機制及其應用之研究 
總執行期限：2008/08/01 ~ 2010/07/31 
PI：C.H Chen （陳瓊華）, National Chiao-Tung University, E-mail: chyong@mail.nctu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
In this project, we established a new method to calculate the transmission characteristics of 
compound hole array in terms of the array supermodes.  We can not only efficiently reduce the 
computation complexity, but also easily obtain physical mechanisms of the transmission dips 
observed in the symmetric compound hole array.  In addition, we designed a double-C shaped 
compound hole arrays and measured their transmission characteristics by using terahertz (THz) 
time-domain spectroscope.  By varying the relative location between these two C-shapes, we 
observed the transmission spectrum shifts and the bandwidth /shape changes.  These observations 
will be applied to the optical bandpass filter designs for THz spectrum. 
 
摘要 
於此計畫，我們建構一新穎之分析金屬孔洞陣列之方法。其中，金屬孔洞陣列為複合型之孔
洞陣列，也就是在其單一元素裡具有幾個孔洞。於此分析方法裡，我們使用超模來建構此複
合陣列之特徵模態，並且透過特徵模態展延傳播方法來計算出此孔洞陣列之穿透特質。此方
法應用於具有對稱度孔洞陣列不僅可以更簡單地獲得最低值穿透時之物理特性並且可以有
效地降低計算演算量。除此之外，我們設計一雙C之複合型之孔洞陣列鐵片，透過更改其排
列相對位置，使用兆赫波時域光譜器量測發現其穿透頻譜特性如中心頻率及頻寬都會隨之改
變，此發現可以應用於日後的THz波段之光通道濾波器之設計。 
 
報告內容 
(一) 前言 
本文為國科會計畫之異常增強穿透金屬孔洞陣列的物理機制及其應用之研究之精簡成果
報告，內容為簡介本計畫二年所研究之實驗方法、成果以及所發表之文獻。 
 
(二) 研究目的 
本計畫預計完成之工作為開發半分析(semi-analytical)式的奇異穿透金屬孔洞陣列的
穿透現象的計算方法、量測金屬孔洞陣列於 THz波段的穿透實驗。 
(三) 文獻探討 
 4
At first, we present the analysis method to calculate the transmission performance of the 
compound metallic hole array perforated in the perfect electrically conductive (PEC) film in 
terms of the supermodes inside the unit cell, i.e., the eigenmodes of the compound hole array 
structure, instead of using eigenmodes in each hole [6].   
As shown in Fig. 1, the structure of the compound metallic hole array has several 
identical holes separated equally in a unit cell.  The modal amplitudes of A at the illuminated 
side and A’ at the exit side can be calculated by solving the coupled linear equations [6]: 
( ) '
( ) ' 0
v
v
G A G A G A I
G A G A G A
αα α α αβ β α α α
β α
α α αα α α αβ β
β α
≠
≠
− Σ + − =
− + − Σ + =
∑
∑
 (1) 
where Iα is the overlap integral between the incident light and the modal field of the α-th mode 
inside the unit cell, Gαβ is the electromagnetic coupling between the α and β modes and Gαυ is 
the coupling between the illuminated and exit sides of the hole.  
Suppose that in each hole only the fundamental eigenmode is supported and the 
supermodes in the unit cell can be expressed as a superposition of the fundamental modes in all 
holes.   
( , )k k k k
k
E B f x kx y kyα α= − −∑  (2) 
where Eα is the α-th supermode, Bkα is the modal amplitude of Eα in the k-th hole, fk(x,y) is the 
field distribution of the fundamental mode in the k-th hole, and xk and yk are the central 
positions of the k-th hole.  Because the holes are identical, Bkα can be expressed as [6] 
( )1sink kNB αpiα +=  (3) 
where N is the number of the holes in the unit cell. 
These supermodes are either even or odd modes as a result of structural symmetry.  For 
normal incidence, we see that Gαβ=0 as one is even mode and the other is odd one and Iα is 
zero for the odd modes, giving rise to zero values of A and A’ for odd modes.  Therefore, we 
obtained that the transmission characteristics of the compound hole array can be dominanted 
by either even or odd supermodes independently, and for the normal incidence, it is determined 
by optical properties of these even supermodes.  
Next, we discuss the transmission properties of the compound hole array with different 
number of the holes in the unit cell in a PEC film.  The dimensions of the rectangular holes 
and the unit cell are ax=2a, ay=30a, dx=30a and dy=60a, respectively. The thickness of the film 
h is 3a.  The separation lx and ly are 4a and 0, respectively.  Figure 3 (a) shows the 
transmittance of the PEC film as a number of the holes N in the unit cell.  As N=2, only one 
even mode exists and no dip is observed in the transmission spectrum.  The number of the 
dips increases with the increase of N.  The number of the dips equals to the number of the 
even modes minus 1.  Take N=8 as an example.  There are 4 even supermodes and then 
 6
The lattice constant is 800 µm.  The inner and outer radii of C-shaped are 100 and 200 
µm, respectively.  Both C-shapes are oppositely located with separation distance lx and ly in x 
and y direction , respectively.  The measured results are shown in Fig. 4 (a) and (b) as a 
function of lx and ly, respectively.  We saw that the Lorentzian-shaped passband is shifted to 
shorter wavelength as the separation distance lx increases.  In addition, the bandwidth 
increases with the increase of lx.  On the other hand, the variations in transmission spectrum 
with ly aremore complicated.  We observed that the peak frequency shifts as ly increases. 
Furthermore, a dip is observed in the passband as ly is 300 µm.  
 
 (a) (b) 
Fig. 4 Effect of (a) lx and (b) ly in transmission spectrum. 
In summary, we present the analysis of transmission characteristics of the compound hole 
array in a PEC film based on array supermodes.  We obtain the transmission dips of the 
compound hole array arise from the Fabry-Perot resonances of high-order even supermodes 
and the resonant wavelength decreases as higher-order even supermode is resonated.  Besides, 
double C-shaped metallic hole arrays are measured by using THz TDs and we obtain that the 
transmission spectrum varies as the relative separation distance between two holes are changed. 
In addition, variation in ly results in not only the shift of the peak frequency but also the shape 
of the transmission band.  These results show the potential application for THz bandpass filter 
designs.  
(五) Reference(參考文獻) 
[1] T.W. Ebbesen, H.J. Lezec, H.F. Ghaemi, T. Thio and P.A. Wolff, “Extraordinary optical 
transmission through sub-wavelength hole arrays,” Nature 391, 667 (1998). 
[2] L. Martín-Moreno, F. J. García-Vidal, H. J. Lezec, K. M. Pellerin, T. Thio, J. B. Pendry, and T. W. 
Ebbesen, “Theory of extraordinary optical transmission through subwavelength hole arrays,” 
Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1114 (2001). 
[3] F. J. García-Vidal, E. Moreno, J. A. Porto, and L. Martín-Moreno, “Transmission of light through 
a single rectangular hole,” Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 103901 (2005). 
[4] D. C. Skigin and R. A. Depine, “Transmission Resonances of Metallic Compound Gratings with 
Subwavelength Slits,” Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 217402 (2005). 
 9
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：2010 年 2月 1日 
一、參加會議經過 
此出國報告內容主要是赴美參加於舊金山舉行之 2010 年美國西部光電研討會(Photonics West)。
這個研討會是由世界知名的美國國際光電工程協會(SPIE)所舉辦，適逢 Laser 50 年，此次此研
討會移師至美國舊金山之 Moscone Center 舉辦，吸引將近 18000 人前往參加，有 3975 篇文章的
發表及超過 1200 各的參展廠商。此會議一共有四大主題，分別是 BiOS、LASE、MOEMS-MEMS、
OPTO 等所有的光電領域。參加此次會議的重點是我們於 2010 年 1 月 27 日的 poster session 會
發表我們於矽光子學相關之研究成果，並且與各國研究人員進行交流與討論來激發更多不同的
想法。 
 
過程: OPTO 研討會各天之議題及研討會 
Optoelectronic Materials and devices 
Physics and simulation of optoelectronic devices XVIII 
Optical Components and materials VII 
計畫編號 NSC 97 －2221 － E－009 －031－ 
計畫名稱 異常增強穿透金屬孔洞陣列的物理機制及其應用之研究 
出國人員
姓名 
陳瓊華 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立交通大學光電工程學系/助理
教授 
會議時間 
99年 1月 25日至 
99 年 1 月 28 日 
會議地點 San Francisco, California, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文)美國西部光電研討會 
(英文) SPIE Photonics west2010 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 微型化多模干涉交錯矽波導之研究 
(英文) Taper-integrated multimode-interference based crossings for silicon wire 
waveguides 
附件四 
 11 
Optoelectronic interconnects and component integration X 
Free-space laser communication technologies XXII 
 
OPTO Special Events 
OPTO plenary session 
GaN-based nonpolar/semipolar LEDs, laser diodes and bulk crystal growth 
Solid-state lighting: science, technology and economic perspectives 
Technical event:  
Workshop on the nature of light: what are photons? 
Holography 
二、與會心得 
研討會見聞 
在 2010 年的美國西部光電研討會裡，針對各個光電領域之未來發展及相關元件設計於技術
研討議程及商品展示中都有充分集中顯示，尤其於矽光子學領域更是蓬勃發展，其相關之
子項研討會總是擠滿了許多光電領域的學術研究人員以及各種光電產業相關的公司，而以
下則為我個人於這四天裡主要參與矽光子學及電漿子學相關之子項研討會中擇其具高前瞻
性之技術論文略述心得。 
1. Integrated photonic platform based on silicon photonic wire waveguides 
This is an invited talk.  The author presented their recent works on integrated photonic devices 
based on silicon wire system, including polarization splitters, polarization rotators, wavelength 
filters, variable optical attenuator and integrated Germanium photodiode.  These works will 
further be applied to large scale electronic photonic device integration.  
2. Leaky mode resonance photonics:  technology for biosensors, optical components, MEMs, 
and plasmonics 
This is an invited talk. The authors presented several subwavelength grating structures based on 
resonant leaky modes by using dielectric, semiconductor and metallic periodic structures 
patterned in one or two dimensions and applied these to the applications of filters, laser mirrors, 
biosensors, solar cell, display and etc.  
3. High-speed optical filtering using active resonant subwavelength gratings 
The author presented an active resonant subwavelength grating by fabricating interdigitated 
metal electrodes on an insulating layer and BaTiO3 thin film on sapphire substrate and showed 
that the reflective spectrum shifted to shorter wavelength as the applied voltage increased.  
4. Deep-subwavelength focusing and steering of light in aperiodic metallic waveguide array 
The author used Hamiltonian optics to analysis the aperiodic array of coupled metallic 
waveguide with varying subwavelength widths to achieve ~focus spot size of λ/100 with focal 
length larger than λ.  In addition, he steering the incidence by either changing the incident 
wavelength or angle.  
5. Numerical investigation of high-Q resoances in circular grating resonator 
This is a work presented by JCMwave, a software company from German.  He presented 
 13
也因為如此，於學術及工業界上研究人員認同矽應為日後光子積體電路主要之基版，其與
微電子積體電路的整合將是未來研究主要之議題。除此之外，由於矽本身並非可發光之材
料，是否可以發展出更有效率且易整合之使用矽基板之發光源與接收源也將是研究之重要
議題。而與會期間，個人覺得較為美中不足的地方應該是此研討會之論文大多已發表至
2009 年的 JOURNAL 等期刊上面。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
NA 
四、建議 
NA 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
(1)會議手冊貳本，其內容為會議日程表議程、會場配置圖及發表論文摘要 
(2)會議光碟一片，其內容為 OPTO研討會相關之論文內容。 
六、其他 
 
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳瓊華 計畫編號：97-2221-E-009-031- 
計畫名稱：異常增強穿透金屬孔洞陣列的物理機制及其應用之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
