geographic information from different geographic 
information platforms by Google App Engine (GAE).The 
developed system is able to actively identify the 
location of the user. When the user is located at an 
outdoor place, the system will switch to an outdoor-
scenario template with which most corresponding 
parameters are pre-set. Thus, the system can 
automatically provide the user with much useful 
information such as the map around his or her 
location, bus schedule, information about parking 
area, and navigation with geographic information. 
When the user moves to an indoor place, he or she 
wears a Zigbee badge and register the ID of this 
badge via the smartphone. In this way, even there is 
no GPS signal at an indoor place, the system can 
instead use the ZigBee localization techniques to 
identify the location of the user and also utilize 
the environment parameters (context) so as to 
automatically provide proper service to the user. 
Through this project, the participants realized the 
technologies and applications related to Android 
operating system for mobile phones and the framework 
on Google App Engine cloud server. In particular, 
they got deep understanding about the topics of 
programming on smartphones, and data communication 
format and mechanism between the client and the cloud 
server. Furthermore, they learned how to plan, design 
and implement an automatic information matching and 
searching system. 
英文關鍵詞： Smartphones, Mobile communication, Localization, 
Context awareness, Android 
 
  
摘要 
由於寬頻無線通訊與硬體技術的快速發展，行
動通訊設備體積大幅縮小並逐漸普及，也因此智慧
型手機(Smartphone)的研究與使用發展已成為一非
常熱門的主題。本計畫主研究在智慧型手機上開發
自動化資訊媒合查詢系統，運用定位與情境感知技
術，自動因應使用情境的改變，透過智慧型手機上
的雙向互動操作介面，讓雲端伺服器可以主動提供
使用者查詢最有需要的資訊。本計劃以Android作
業系統作為智慧型手機開發平台，並以Google App 
Engine(GAE)建置雲端伺服器擷取並整合不同地
理資訊平台之地理資訊，所開發的系統可自動辨識
使用者位置，當使用者位於室外環境時，主動切換
情境樣板為室外，並設定相對應的情境參數，主動
提供使用者可能的資訊查詢需求，如即時地址資
訊、公車到站資訊、停車場車位資訊等，並提供地
理資訊導航之功能。當使用者位於特定室內環境
時，使用者可以利用手機登錄所領取到的ZigBee
裝置編號於使用者身分中，系統即可在收不到GPS
訊號的室內繼續以ZigBee無線感測網路，根據該室
內環境提供定位服務。經過本計畫的執行，參與人
員清楚了解Android開放式手機作業系統與Google 
App Engine雲端伺服器架構與技術之應用，並特別
對智慧型手機程式與雲端伺服器間的資料交換格
式的設計與機制有更深入的了解，並且更進一步瞭
解如何規劃、設計與實作一自動化資訊媒合查詢系
統。 
 
關鍵字：智慧型手機、行動通訊、定位、情境感知、
Android 
 
1. 緣由與目的 
  隨著無線通訊技術的發展，行動通訊網路如
WiFi、3G、3.5G、WiMAX等日益普及，此外也由
於硬體技術的快速發展，行動通訊設備體積大幅縮
小，因此行動通訊設備如智慧型手機(Smart Phone)
的使用與發展已逐漸成為潮流，譬如：可以運用智
慧型手機收發電子郵件；或是旅客利用智慧型手機
內建的 GPS 搭配地圖程式功能來規劃旅遊路線、
上網查看各個景點的網友評價，讓旅遊可以豐富又
愜意。 
但在目前現有的地理資訊服務平台中，雖然可以提
供使用者地理服務資料，但每當想更進一步查詢其
他資料時，卻需要去其他平台上尋找。例如使用者
今天想去某個地方玩，可是卻不知道可採用的交通
方式時，一般的做法會使用線上地圖(Google Map)
去輸入起點和終點查詢路徑。但若不知道目前所在
位置，系統將無法查詢路徑。可行的方式之一是利
用 GPS 服務取得自己所在的經緯度位置，再將經
緯度輸入進線上地圖進行查詢做路徑規劃。由以上
的例子可知，若能自動利用 GPS 服務取得自己所
在經緯度位置並與地理資訊服務整合，可以減少許
多手動操作的時間。 
本計畫希望擴充原先僅能應用於中小型環境
的展場導引系統成為可應用於都市及全世界，並自
動化因應使用情境的改變，進一步利用智慧型手機
上的雙向操作介面，讓伺服器可以主動提供使用者
查詢最有可能需要的資訊，如周遭地圖資訊、公車
資訊、停車場資訊等，並進一步提供導航的功能。
以現在的座標查詢導航資訊，當使用者於室外環境
時，可使用線上地圖服務查詢。當使用者進入特定
展場室內環境，系統將主動切換圖資來源成為室
內，並提供使用者可以查詢各種服務資訊(例如：
洗手間、電梯、販賣部...等)。當使用者需要於室
內使用更精準的定位服務時，系統將結合 ZigBee
裝置與使用者的資訊，透過追蹤裝置的位置取得使
用者的座標及相關的資訊，最後藉由智慧型手機傳
送給使用者。一方面補足了原先展場導引與管理系
統無法雙向溝通的不足，另一方面擴充了原先展場
導引與管理系統成智慧型自動資訊媒合系統，提供
更加豐富、完整的使用體驗。 
 
2. 相關研究 
2.1 Android 
  Android是 Google在 2007年 11月，結合 34
家廠商共同成立開放手機聯盟 (Open Handset 
Alliance)所推廣的 Linux 手機作業系統平台。而
Android 平台的推出，改變了以往的手機功能，
Android手機使用觸控式螢幕技術，支援視訊、音
樂、高畫質圖片和 Wi-Fi 等技術，同時整合了
Google地圖、Gmail電子郵件等應用軟體，除此之
外，Google 對外發布了 Android 軟體開發工具包
(SDK)，目的就是吸引外部開發者為 Android手機
開發大量應用軟體，期盼在 Android應用軟體數量
增長後，回頭帶動 Android手機用戶群的增長，在
下圖一中，Open Handset Alliance和 Google共同規
劃了 Android 平台的應用，期許 Android 平台可
以對於車載系統、GIS、Network 等方面，進行軟
體開發，因此，Android手機平台在未來將會有越
來越多人投入開發的行列。 
  
置資訊，去連結到此地區的氣象資訊，另外，
RFID、ZigBee 無線感測網路可以更詳細的描繪出
使用者離什麼物件距離最近等等。其他的感應器則
可以根據不同的應用領域來增減，其他的感應器則
可以根據不同的應用領域來增減，像是Monitor可
以去偵測使用者的姿勢(站、坐、走路速度多少)，
可以運用在智慧型房間，例如：若使這用的位置是
在房間，而姿勢是躺著，躺著持續時間超過半小
時，就自動將手機調為震動、房間電燈熄滅等。情
境資訊最後都將傳送給情境感知系統。使用者的行
動裝置上也可備有一些感應器裝置(例如麥克風、
相機等等)，也可以讓使用者本身也提供一些情境
資訊給系統，來增加系統推理的正確性，當使用者
連接無線網路登入此系統時，情境感知服務系統可
以透過感應接收器來偵測使用者的情境當這些情
境滿足條件時，系統便會通過啟動情境服務推理機
制，來提供適當的服務給使用者。 
 
3. 研究方法 
  本計畫主要在智慧型手機上開發自動化資訊
媒合查詢系統，運用定位以及情境感知技術
(Context Awareness)，自動因應使用者情境的改
變，設定不同的情境樣板參數，並透過智慧型手機
上的雙向互動的介面，讓伺服器可以主動提供使用
者查詢最有可能的資訊。以下我們將對於我們研究
方法做詳細的介紹。 
3.1.1. 節點識別 
  每個使用 ZigBee無線感測網路的感測器、裝
置都可稱為一個 ZigBee 無線感測網路中的節點
（Node），最初的設定是一個 ZigBee 無線感測網
路內最多能有 255個節點（主控節點 + 受控節點 
* 254），但最後的底定是允許達 65535個節點。事
實上這個數字還是經過收斂的務實作法，正規的
IEEE 802.15.4最多可到 64-bit定址，ZigBee則縮
減成16-bit定址，此稱為Short Address。每個 ZigBee
無線感測網路節點在啟動時，都會由協調者分配一
Short Address，此 Short Address為每次加入網路就
會重新分配。這造成了一個問題就是斷線的節點重
新加入網路以後，Short Address變得與原先不同。
所以若要能持續追蹤不同節點，還需要另外記錄
IEEE Address以識別不同時間加入、退出網路的相
同節點。 
  識別出不同節點之後，本計畫將節點資訊與使
用者結合，每位參觀者身上將攜帶一移動節點裝
置，每個節點均代表一位使用者，透過識別不同節
點於展場中之移動路徑、停留時間等，將可進一步
儲存使用者相關資訊。 
3.1.2. 節點定位 
  本計畫採用 ZigBee來佈建一個大型之封閉室
內環境中的無線感測網路。一般來說 ZigBee感測
網路如需達成物件的追蹤與定位，通常會在網路環
境中設置已知座標位置的參考節點 (Reference 
Node)，並將 ZigBee設備整合進人員識別證或嵌入
物品中，作為待定位節點(Blind Node)。利用收集
『待定位節點』與『參考節點』之間的接收訊號強
度 (Received Signal Strength Indication, RSSI)，來
大略的估算『待定位節點』所在的位置。本計畫採
用德州儀器公司所開發的無線感測模組
CC2430/CC2431 晶片，其中 CC2431 晶片內建 
Chipcon與Motorola公司共同開發的硬體位置定位
引擎(Z-Location Engine)，該晶片可以同時接受多
至 16個『參考節點』(Reference Node)所提供的接
收訊號強度(Received Signal Strength Indication, 
RSSI)資訊並利用硬體的功能即時計算出『待定位
節點』(Blind Node)所在的座標位置，而 CC2430
晶片組則沒有包含該硬體位置定位引擎。在本計畫
所應用的環境下，使用 ZigBee感測網路來達成室
內定位的功能須包含下列功能類型的裝置有協調
者、路由器、參考節點等。 
  德州儀器 CC2431 晶片內含硬體定位引擎，
當使用此晶片之『待定位節點』設定為自動模式
時，『待定位節點』將會週期性的向『參考節點』
廣播 RSSI-blast封包，並詢問本身與『參考節點』
間的 RSSI平均值。只要收到超過三個『參考節點』
回傳值，將計算出座標並回傳給協調者。而「建立
虛擬路徑之協同定位方法」首先將透過修改 
CC2431 晶片韌體程式碼，使『待定位節點』不單
是回傳本身之座標，而增加回傳設備間的接收訊號
強度，並利用這些資訊在後端管理系統進行虛擬路
徑的建立、距離的預估與座標的計算，整個方法的
流程如下圖三所示： 
Blind node
待定位節點
Reference node
參考節點
Coordinator
協調者（系統端）
1. RSSI-blast
2.平均之 RSSI
3.回傳座標
定位開始
 
圖三：待定位節點設為自動模式時的定位流程圖 
  當開始定位流程後，『待定位節點』將會廣播
RSSI-blast封包，並隨後發出 RSSI-request需求給
  
點選按鈕，系統程式將會把功能傳送至資訊檢索模
組執行，本模組針對使用者的所在位置不同，如室
外、室內展場，設定相對應之情境參數，以提供使
用者查詢最有可能需要的資訊。同時，此模組也負
責記錄使用者系興趣、喜好與基本資料新增、註
冊、資料維護畫面。 
4. 系統成果 
  本系統所提供之實作功能與操作情境如下。 
 室外情境樣板 
 即時地址資訊 
 公車到站資訊 
 停車場車位資訊 
 地理資訊導航 
 室內情境樣板 
 展覽館導引 
 停車場導引 
 歷程查詢 
 偏好設定 
 
下圖五為使用者登入、註冊頁面。  
 
圖五：使用者登入頁面 
資料來源：本研究 
下圖六為室內情境樣板頁面，當使用者位於室內環
境，本系統即自動切換至室內情境樣板，並提供使
用者展覽館導引（如下圖七所示）以及停車場導引
（如下圖八所示）兩系統做選擇，透過ZigBee定位
裝置完成使用者室內定位，綠色節點為Reference 
node位置，藍色人頭為使用者目前位置。 
 
圖六：室內情境樣板頁面 
 
     
 圖七：展覽館導引頁面  圖八：停車場導引頁面 
資料來源：本研究 
 
下圖九為室外情境樣板頁面，分為「定位」、「公
車」、「停車」、「歷程」四個子功能。預設為「定位」
頁面，本系統透過智慧型手機擷取使用者 GPS 座
標，並更新位置於地圖中心點，以提供使用者 GPS
座標、以及目前所在地址之資訊。 
 
圖九：即時地址資訊頁面 
資料來源：本研究 
下圖十為公車到站資訊頁面，系統根據使用者GPS
座標，至系統資料庫中擷取使用者附近之公車資
訊，並將公車站地理圖標更新於智慧型手機頁面。 
  
      
 圖十六：導航至此頁面   圖十七：詳細資訊頁面 
資料來源：本研究 
 
下圖十八為歷程查詢頁面，提供使用者查詢最近歷
程，包括「更新時間」、「經緯度之地理位置」資訊。 
      
 圖十八：歷程查詢頁面   圖十九：導航至此頁面 
資料來源：本研究 
 
上圖十九為設定頁面，提供使用者偏好設定，使用
者可依其喜好自行設定地理資訊顯示於地圖上之
圖標數目。 
  本系統所開發的使用者功能操作流程如下圖
二十所示。 
 
圖二十：本系統之使用者介面操作流程圖 
資料來源：本研究 
 
  本計畫所完成之系統會以開放碼源的方式將
本程式公開分享，促進學術交流，並將本系統包裝
成 Android 智慧型手機系統*.apk 安裝檔，使用者
僅需將安裝檔下載置手機端即可快速安裝並使用
其服務，以提供使用者更加豐富且完整的使用體
驗。 
5. 參考文獻 
[1] T. Ma, Y. D. Kim, Q. Ma, M. Tang and W. Zhou, 
“Context-Aware Implementation based on CBR 
for Smart Home,” IEEE International 
Conference on Wireless and Mobile Computing, 
Networking and Communications, Vol 4, 2005, 
pp. 112-115. 
[2] B. N. Schilit, D. M. Hilbert and J. Trevor, 
“Context-Aware Communication,” IEEE 
Wireless Communications, Vol 9, No 5, pp. 
46-54, 2002. 
[3] X. H. Wang, D. Q. Zhang, T. Gu and H. K. Pung, 
“Ontology Based Context Modeling and 
Reasoning using OWL,” Proceedings of Second 
IEEE Annual Conference on Pervasive 
Computing on Communications Workshops, 
2004, pp. 18-22. 
[4] H. Lee, J. Kim and J. Huh, “Context-Aware 
based Mobile Service for Ubiquitous Home,” 
Advanced Communication Technology, 2006, 
ICACT, the 8th International Conferences on, 
2006, pp. 1851-1854. 
[5] A. Roy, S K. Das and K. Basu, “A Predictive 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                            日期：  99 年 11 月 1
                                 
 日 
一、參加會議經過 
ChinaCom 2010--Fifth International Conference on Communications and Networking in China
為 ICST(The Institute for Computer Sciences, Social Informatics and Telecommunications 
Engineering)所主辦之研討會，ICST 是一專業性國際組織，目前 ICST 贊助與參與相當多全球各地的
科技與科學活動，每年舉辦超過 70個全球性的年度科技高峰會、研討會與座談會等，並發行各類的學
術性期刊、書籍、會議論文集與雜誌。本次的會議期間自八月二十五日到八月二十七日，包含 8 個
Symposium，大約有兩百餘篇論文發表，另外還有 4 個 Workshop，2 個 Tutorial 與數個 Panel 
discussion。八月二十五日當天議程是 Workshop部分，主要的 Technical Session是在八月二十六日
到八月二十七日舉行。 
 8/24 早上由桃園國際機場出發，約中午 12:30抵北京機場，傍晚抵達會議地點唯實酒店。 
 8/25 前往會議中心報到、參加開幕與 keynote speech演講，並參加 Tutorial- Cognitive Radio 
Networks，傍晚與數位同行的教授一起用餐，之後返回住宿酒店。 
 8/26 早上前往會議中心，參加整天的 Technical sessions，下午與學生一起發表論文，晚間參加
Banquet。 
 8/27 早上再度前往會議中心，參加整天的 Technical sessions。 
 8/28 與數位同行的台灣教授一同拜會中國科學院計算技術研究所，並與副研究員蔣樹强餐敘交
流，了解中國科學院的一些概況；之後並前往參觀北京故宮、紫禁城等景點。 
 8/29 與數位同行的台灣教授前往北京交通大學參訪，之後並前往八達嶺探訪長城。 
 8/30 與數位同行的台灣教授前往北京大學、清華大學參訪並參觀頤和園等地。 
 8/31 早上由住宿的酒店出發到北京機場，搭機返回桃園國際機場。 
二、與會心得 
此研討會以華人為核心，提供一個讓全世界對網路與通訊技術與應用有興趣之產官學界聚集在一
起的機會，除來自許多國家的學者報告其研究成果外，亦有許多知名業界廠商參與，並展示其產品，
中國大陸目前不論是網路建置與其各種應用均快速發展，其影響力全球矚目，藉參與此次研討會，不
計畫編號 NSC 99－2220－E－152－001 
計畫名稱 在智慧型手機上運用定位與情境感知技術開發自動資訊媒合與查詢系統 
出國人員
姓名 
陳永昇 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立台北教育大學資訊科學系教授 
會議時間 
99年 8月 25日至 
99年 8月 27日 
會議地點 大陸北京 
會議名稱 2010 Fifth International Conference on Communications and Networking in China 
發表論文
題目 
An Efficient Localization Scheme based on Coverage Overlapping in Wireless Sensor 
Networks 
 3 
 
論文集與 CD 
六、其他 
 
與會照片 1: 報到處 
 
 
與會照片 2: 報告論文 
 
 
Efficient Localization Scheme based on Coverage 
Overlapping in Wireless Sensor Networks 
 
Yeong-Sheng Chen, Tang-Te Lo, and Wen-Chien Ma 
Department of Computer Science 
 National Taipei University of Education 
Taipei 106, Taiwan 
 
yschen@tea.ntue.edu.tw    ltdrain1104@gmail.com    lalawolala@yahoo.com.tw 
 
 
Abstract—Localization is an important and active topic in 
wireless sensor networks. This paper proposes a range free 
localization scheme based on coverage overlapping. The nodes 
knowing their locations are called reference nodes and the nodes 
without the knowledge of their locations are called unknown 
nodes. In addition, for a reference node, the area within its 
communication range is called the coverage region. In the 
proposed scheme, an unknown node identifies the coverage 
regions in which it is located by collecting beacon information 
from its neighboring reference nodes. The overlapped area of all 
the coverage regions should be the area where the unknown node 
is located in. An overlap point is defined to represent the 
overlapped area of two coverage regions. Besides, an overlap 
degree, which is the number of the coverage regions that cover 
this overlap point, is associated with each overlap point. All the 
overlap points that are not located in the Estimative Rectangle 
(ER), which can be derived by applying the CPE algorithm, are 
discarded. The remaining overlap points are sorted according to 
their overlap degrees. Moreover, among them, the ones with the 
maximum overlap degree are averaged and the averaged point is 
the estimated location of the unknown node. With the proposed 
mechanism, the reference nodes that cannot contribute to the 
localization accuracy are excluded, and hence better localization 
accuracy can be achieved. Experimental results show that the 
proposed scheme outperforms the related works, including 
Centroid and CPE algorithms, in term of better localization 
accuracy. 
Keywords: wireless sensor networks; localization; coverage 
overlapping. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The rapid progress and integration of wireless 
communication technology and embedded processor 
technology have lead to blooming development of Wireless 
Sensor Networks (WSNs). In a WSN, there can be a large 
number of sensor nodes each of which has the ability of 
sensing data and communication. Thus, a WSN can perform 
real-time data collection, analysis, monitoring and immediate 
response to events. In order to comply with the demand for the 
deployment of a large number of sensor nodes, WSNs also 
have characteristics of low cost, low power, small size, easy to 
deploy, etc. Because WSNs contain the functions of both 
wireless communications and sensors, it can be applied to the 
intelligent office, security surveillance, logistics tracking, home 
care, staff positioning, home security and other fields [1-5]. 
Many WSN applications are based on the location 
information of the sensor nodes. When an event like fire or 
robbery happens in a WSN environment, in order to deal with 
the event, one may need to know the location of the sensor 
node that detects the event. In many circumstances, it is not 
suitable for all sensor nodes to be equipped with GPS or other 
additional localization devices. Thus, most of the sensor nodes 
cannot know their own location information. How to get 
locations of sensor nodes is one of the most important issues in 
WSNs and is known as the localization problem. 
A lot of different approaches to the localization problem in 
WSNs have been proposed in the literature [5-11]. In these 
approaches, there are trade-offs among different factors such as 
the accuracy of localization, energy saving, hardware cost, the 
complexity of implementation, etc. The localization approaches 
can be broadly classified into two categories: range-based 
schemes and range-free schemes. Range-based schemes use the 
information of absolute distance or angle between nodes to 
calculate locations. This information can be obtained by Time 
of Arrival (TOA), Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA), Angle 
of Arrival (AOA), and Received Signal Strength Indicator 
(RSSI) [5-8]. For example, the Global Positioning System 
(GPS) is the most well-known location service in the world 
today. It makes use of Time of Arrival (TOA) technology to 
compute distance from 24 satellites of six orbital planes so as 
to estimate the location of the target. Range-based localization 
schemes require additional hardware to obtain relatively 
accurate distance (or angle) measurements between nodes. In 
order to reduce the hardware costs, many range-free 
localization schemes have been proposed [9-11]. A range-free 
scheme assumes that no specialized distance or angle 
determining hardware is necessary for the sensor nodes. That is, 
in contrast to the range-based schemes, a range-free scheme has 
the advantages of low computation overhead and less hardware 
complexity. For example, it is costly for all sensor nodes to be 
equipped with GPS or other additional localization devices. As 
low cost is one of the main features of wireless sensor networks, 
range-free schemes could be more attractive approaches to 
localization in WSNs. 
In this study, we propose a range-free localization scheme: 
localization scheme based on coverage overlapping (LCO) in a 
WSN. We assume that a small number of nodes are equipped 
GPS or other localization devices. They know their locations 
unknown node must be located within the overlapped area of 
all the coverage regions of its neighboring reference nodes. In 
this study, we devise an efficient localization mechanism based 
on overlapping the coverage regions of the reference nodes. 
The details are elaborated as follows. 
A.  Coverage Constraints 
Supposing that an unknown node U(xu, yu) can receive the 
beacon messages from n neighboring reference nodes Ri(xi, yi) 
whose communication ranges are all assumed to be r, the 
following constraints must be satisfied. 
 (xu-xi)2+(yu-yi)2≦r2,  1≦i≦n. (1) 
A solution to the above system of inequalities can be 
considered as an estimation of the location of U. However, it is 
not easy to solve (1) since the inequalities are nonlinear and 
hence most of the existing linear programming algorithms can 
hardly be applied.  
From (1), it is easy to see that the unknown node U must be 
located within the area covered by the circle centered at Ri(xi, 
yi), 1≦i≦n, with radius r. This area is the coverage region of 
the reference node Ri. Clearly, a solution to (1) must be within 
the overlapped area of the coverage regions of all Ri’s. 
Consider a simple case as shown in Figure 1. The unknown 
node U must be located both in the coverage regions of 
reference nodes R1(x1, y1) and R2(x2, y2). That is, any point 
located in the overlapped area of the coverage regions of R1 and 
R2 is a solution to (1). Moreover, it is easy to reason that the 
midpoint of R1 and R2 is the centroid of the overlapped area. 
Supposing that the unknown node is uniformly distributed in 
the sensor field, the centroid point should be a good estimation 
of the location of U.  
According to the above reasoning, for two reference nodes 
R1 and R2 of an unknown node, the midpoint of R1 and R2 is 
defined as the overlap point of R1 and R2. The overlap point is 
designated to represent the overlapped area of the coverage 
regions of reference nodes and can used for location estimation 
of the unknown node U as elaborated as follows  
B.  Location Estimation 
According to the coverage constraints imposed by the 
reference nodes, a well-known range-free localization scheme 
was proposed by Bulusu et al. [9]. In that scheme, an unknown 
node collects location information from their neighboring 
reference nodes and computes its estimated location by using 
the Centroid formula. The Centroid algorithm is simple and 
efficient. However, when the distribution of the reference 
nodes is not even, the estimated location tends to be inaccurate. 
As shown in Figure 2, the shadow region is the overlapped area 
of the coverage regions of three reference nodes R1, R2 and R3. 
Clearly, the unknown node should be located in the shadow 
region. However, by using the Centroid algorithm, the 
estimated location, denoted as C, of the unknown node is the 
average of the coordinates of R1, R2 and R3, which is outside 
the shadow region.  
To improve the location accuracy, the overlap point 
described above is useful since it can be used to represent the 
overlapped area of two communication regions. In Figure 2, the 
overlap points of R1 and R2, R2 and R3, R1 and R3 are denoted as 
O12, O23 and O13, respectively. We can see that O12 and O13 are 
within the shadow region and hence can be useful for location 
estimation, whereas O23 does not seem to be helpful for 
accurate location estimation since it is far away from the 
shadow area. This observation reveals that if the overlap points 
that are far away from the shadow area are excluded, the 
remaining overlap points can be used to derive accurate 
location estimation.  
We call an overlap point improper if it is far away from the 
shadow region. For the purpose of identifying the improper 
overlap points, the CPE scheme proposed by Doherty et al. [10] 
is adopted. The CPE algorithm defines the Estimative 
Rectangle (ER) to bound the overlapped region. For ease of 
computation, the derivation of ER is a little modified as 
presented in [11]. A square of size 2r is used to bound the 
coverage region of a reference node, whose communication 
range is r. Thus, the ER of the unknown node is the overlapped 
area of all the squares that bound the coverage regions of the 
reference nodes. As shown in Figure 2, there are three square 
regions each of which is for a reference node. The overlapped 
area of these three square regions (the bold-line box) is the ER, 
inside which the unknown node must be located. By adopting 
the CPE scheme, we devise a filtering mechanism to filter out 
the improper overlap points, which are much unlikely to be 
helpful for accurate location estimation. The mechanism can be 
described as follows: At first, all the overlap points of every 
two reference nodes are computed. Also, the Estimative 
 
Figure 1. Overlapped coverage regions 
 
Figure 2. Filtering overlap points by ER 
 C. Effects of Communication Range 
In the simulation, the total number of sensor nodes is 200. 
The density of reference nodes is 30%. The communication 
range of sensor nodes varies from 10m to 50m. Figure 5 shows 
the effects of the communication range on the mean location 
error. We can see that as the communication range of sensor 
nodes increases, the mean location error decreases for all the 
three approaches. This is because that more information of 
reference nodes can be obtained by the unknown nodes as the 
communication range increase. Again, Centroid and CPE take 
all the information of reference nodes to obtain the estimated 
location and their mean location errors are almost the same. In 
contrast, our proposed scheme always has better localization 
accuracy than Centroid and CPE schemes since the reference 
nodes that constitute improper overlap points are not taken into 
account while performing the location computation. 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS  
Localization is a fundamental and essential research issue in 
WSNs. In order to reduce the cost of communication and 
computation and to enhance the accuracy of location estimation, 
we propose a range-free localization scheme based on coverage 
overlapping, named LCO for short. In the proposed scheme, 
the unknown node identifies the coverage regions of its 
neighboring reference nodes. An overlap point is defined to 
represent the overlapped area of two coverage regions. We 
devise a filtering mechanism to filter out the improper overlap 
points that are very unlikely to be helpful for deriving accurate 
location estimation by checking if they are located in the 
Estimative Rectangle (ER), which can be derived by applying 
the CPE algorithm. Besides, an overlap degree, which is the 
number of the coverage regions that cover the overlap point, is 
associated with each overlap point. All the overlap points that 
are located in the ER are sorted according to their overlap 
degrees, and the ones with the maximum overlap degree are 
averaged. The averaged point is the estimated location of the 
unknown node. The proposed mechanism has the merits of low 
communication and computation cost because it is easy to 
identify the coverage regions of reference nodes and to derive 
the overlap points together with their respective overlap 
degrees. Moreover, in comparison with Centroid and CPE 
schemes, simulation results show that the proposed scheme 
always has better localization accuracy since the reference 
nodes that cannot contribute to the localization accuracy are 
excluded while performing the location estimation, and only 
the overlap points with the maximum overlap degree are 
utilized for location computation. 
REFERENCES 
[1] I. F. Akyildiz, W.Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam, and E. Cayirci, “A 
Survey on Sensor Networks,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 40, 
pp. 102-114, August 2002. 
[2] D. Estrin, L. Girod, G. Pottie, and M. Strivastava, “Instrumenting the 
World with Wireless Sensor Networks”, International Conference of 
Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing (ICASSP), vol. 4, pp. 2033-
2036, May 2001. 
[3] D. Estrin, R. Govindan, J. Heidemann, and S. Kumar, “Next Century 
Challenges: Scalable Coordination in Sensor Networks,” 5th Annual 
International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking 
(MOBICOM), pp. 263-270, Washington, USA, August 1999. 
[4] G.J. Pottie, and W.J. Kaiser, “Wireless Integrate Network Sensors”, 
Communications of the ACM, vol. 43, no. 5, pp. 551-558, May 2002. 
[5] K. Lorincz and M. Welsh, “MoteTrack: a robust, decentralized approach 
to RF-based location tracking,” Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, vol. 
11, no. 6, pp. 489-503, 2007. 
[6] A. Catovic and Z. Sahinoglu, “The Cram´er-Rao bounds of hybrid 
TOA/RSS and TDOA/RSS location estimation schemes,” IEEE 
Communications Letters, vol. 8, no. 10, pp. 626-628, 2004. 
[7] D. Niculescu and B. Nath, “Ad Hoc Positioning System (APS) using 
AOA,” 22nd Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and 
Communications Societies (INFOCOM 2003), pp. 1734-1743, vol. 22, 
March 2003. 
[8] P. Bahl, and V. N. Padmanabhan, “RADAR: An In-Building RF-based 
User Location and Tracking System,” 19th Annual Joint Conference of 
the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (INFOCOM 2000), 
vol. 2, pp. 775-784, Tel Aviv, Israel, March 2000.. 
[9] N. Bulusu, J. Heidemann, and D. Estrin, “GPS-less Low Cost Outdoor 
Localization for Very Small Devices,” IEEE Personal Communication 
Magazine, vol. 7 no. 5, pp. 28-34, October 2000. 
[10] L. Doherty, K.S.J. Pister, and L.E. Ghaoui, “Convex Position Estimation 
in Wireless Sensor Networks,” 20nd Annual Joint Conference of the 
IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (INFOCOM 2001), vol. 
3, pp. 1655-1663, April 2001. 
[11] J. P. Sheu, P. C. Chen, C. S. Hsu, “A Distributed Localization Scheme 
for Wireless Sensor Networks with Improved Grid-Scan and Vector-
based Refinement,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Vol. 7, 
No. 9, pp. 1110-1123, September 2008. 
 
Figure 4. Effects of reference node density 
 
 
Figure 5. Effects of communication ranges 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳永昇 計畫編號：99-2220-E-152-001- 
計畫名稱：在智慧型手機上運用定位與情境感知技術開發自動資訊媒合與查詢系統 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 80%  
研討會論文 2 2 80% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 1 50%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 5 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 50%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 3 2 60% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
