2ABSTRACT
The goal of this project is to investigate the excimer-
laser-induced crystallization of Si films numerically and
experimentally. The control parameter is laser energy
intensity. The basic structure of the working piece is an
a-Si film on glass substrate. An efficient numerical
model is built to solve the energy equation whose
thermal properties are function of temperature and the
specific heat/enthalpy method is used to handle the
release or absorption of latent heat. Besides, the
Classical Nucleation Theory (CNT) is used to calculate
the nucleus number and undercooling during the
solidification. A laser crystallization experiment is
developed for fabricating poly-Si films. SEM is utilized
to observe the resulting microstructures on the surface
and over the cross section of the Si films. The computing
results are compared with the experimental ones
acquired in this research. The full-melt threshold (FMT)
can be obtained from either the experimental or
numerical result and they are consistent with each other.
From the computed melt depths and the cross section
SEM photos, it can be found that the grains grow from
the bottom of the melt pool. When the laser intensity is
low, the grains grow uniformly. As the laser intensity is
close to or over the FMT, the grains does not form
evenly and the super large grains can be obtained, which
consist of several crystal growth directions and are
surrounded by many small grains. The variation
tendencies of the computed maximum undercooling and
the corresponding nucleus number are consistent with
that of the average grain size obtained from the
experimental results. With the experimental and
numerical analysis of this work, the grain growth
conditions in the regimes of the partial melting, almost
complete melting and complete melting can be
understood profoundly.
Keywords: crystal structure, heat transfer, classical
nucleation theory, solidification, poly-
silicon film
摘要
本計畫是以實驗與數值方法探討準分子雷射之
矽薄膜結晶製程。主要製程控制參數為雷射能量密
度，工件的基本結構是矽薄膜在玻璃基板之上。本
研究建立一高效率之數值模式求解非線性能量方程
式，其熱特性為溫度的函數，使用比熱熱焓法來處
理潛熱之吸收與釋放。除此之外，於凝固之過程
中，進一步以古典之成核理論計算過冷與成核數。
在實驗方面，建立一雷射薄膜結晶製程來製作多晶
矽薄膜，使用掃描式電子顯微鏡觀察多晶矽薄膜之
表面與橫截面結構。於此研究中，從數值與實驗結
果之比較，發現數值與實驗所得完全融熔之門檻互
相吻合。從計算融化深度與橫截面結構之觀察與分
析，可發現晶粒是由熔池之底部成長。當雷射能量
密度低時，晶粒均勻成長；當雷射能量密度接近或
超過完全融熔門檻，晶粒成長不均勻，可獲得超級
大之晶粒，此超大晶粒包含幾個不同之成長方向，
並被許多小晶粒所包圍。計算最大過冷與成核數之
變化趨勢跟實驗所得之平均晶粒大小的變化趨勢一
致。從本計畫之實驗與數值分析，可以較深入地了
解在部分融熔、幾乎完全融熔、完全融熔三區之晶
粒成長情形。
關鍵字：結晶結構、熱傳、凝固、多晶矽薄膜、古
典成核理論
INTRODUCTION
In the processing of a poly-Si film, an a-Si
(amorphous silicon) thin layer on glass substrate is
melted mainly by using an excimer laser, and then
cooled down to form a poly-Si thin film [1, 2]. This
process is sometimes named the Excimer Laser
Annealing Method [3]. However, it may not be able to
achieve the field-effect mobility of an electronic
component with the laser-crystallized technology [4].
This is primarily due to the high power of laser that
causes the silicon film to melt and solidify instantly.
With rapid solidification, it is easy to have crystal
defects and smaller grains that hinder the movements of
electrical carriers. This indicates that the solidification
process of poly-Si films is influenced by the transient
temperature distributions in the Si film [5]. The control
of surface temperature during the processing of a pulsed
laser is of critical importance [6]. However, the
temperature distributions of Si thin films are difficult to
measure directly. Many labs have been trying to develop
more accurate methods to find out the temperature
distributions. Consequently, it is helpful and significant
to make theoretical analyses on the temperature fields of
the Si films irradiated by pulsed laser techniques for
obtaining high mobility.
The temperature fields of Si thin films irradiated by
a pulsed laser have been studied theoretically in several
researches [7, 8]. However, most of the studies were
limited to using the fixed reflectivity of the laser light on
the sample surface. Besides, Azuma, et al. [9] computed
the temperature fields of silicon films using for solar
cell, fabricated by a KrF excimer laser. Yeh and
Matsumura [10] simulated the lateral-growth mechanism
numerically and investigated the time-dependent profiles
of temperature. The authors of the last two papers
thought that the temperature-dependent reflection
coefficient is not essential. This is inconsistent with the
experimental results on in situ optical diagnostics
including time-resolved reflectivity [11, 12]. Chang [13]
calculated temperature distribution by using the
temperature-dependent reflectivity and the numerical
solution is consistent with the experimental result.
In solving a solidification problem, macro-models,
such as the specific heat/enthalpy method, do not
consider the influences of microstructure development
during the solidification process. Including the
microstructure effect, the phase field method [14] has an
advantage of dealing with complex structure variation.
However, a phase variable must be introduced to specify
the liquid, solid and interface regions and it has no much
physical meaning. In addition, the mesh size must be
smaller than the thickness of interface layer, which limits
4eff
p
T T T
C k k Q
t x x y y
                  
(1)
where ρ is density and k is thermal conductivity. Q is the
heat source term, which is used to deal with the
irradiation energy of the laser. effpC is the effective
specific heat and is determined by the specific
heat/enthalpy method for the case without considering
the microstructure effects. The initial and boundary
conditions of the model are
(1) Initial condition Before the work piece is
irradiated by the laser, its temperature can be room
temperature or above.
(2) Boundary conditions
(i) On the upper surface, the heat is lost by the
combination of convection and radiation.
4 4( ) ( )
T
k h T T T T
n
 
    

(2)
where n is the normal direction of the boundary, h is the
coefficient of convection heat transfer, T∞ is the
environmental temperature, is emissivity and is the
Stefan-Boltzmann constant. In this study, T is set to be
300K andis 0.22 [5].
(ii) On the bottom surface, it can be heat-insulated or a
fixed temperature, which is the same as the initial
temperature.
Source term. The absorbed radiation energy can be
regarded as the heat source in the film or substrate.
Based on the Beer’s law, the source termQ in Eq. (1)
can be written as [10]
0
zQ I e   (3)
0
(1 ) heating zone
0 the other place
iI RI


(4)
where Ii is the temporal distribution of the laser power
per unit area,is the absorption coefficient, and the R is
reflectivity. The magnitude of reflectivity would directly
affect the absorbed energy of the work piece from laser.
Hatano and colleagues [11, 12] used an optical method
to measure the reflectivity of an a-Si thin film. The
reflectivity is obviously affected by the surface
temperature of the silicon film, especially when the Si
film is in the liquid phase.
Nucleation. Except the solidification analysis by using
the specific heat/enthalpy method stated above, the
Classical Nucleation Theory is used study the nucleation
stage of the crystal growth of poly-Si film. The energy
equation can be written as
s
p
fT T T
C k k H Q
t x x y y t
                      
(5)
where pC is the specific heat and H is the latent heat
and sf is the local solidification fraction. The
undercooling, sf and the release of latent heat term are
determined by applying the Classical Nucleation Theory
combined with the modified cellular automaton model.
From the Classical Nucleation Theory, the
homogeneous and heterogeneous rates of nucleation, Iv
and Ia, are given, respectively, as follows:
 
3
v 0v 2
B ls
16
I T I exp
3k T G T
   
  
(6)
  
3
a 0a 2
B i,t ls
16
I T I exp f
3k T G T
     
  
(7)
where kB is Boltzmann’s constantand .is the surface
energy. I0v and I0a are the kinetic factors for
homogeneous and heterogeneous nucleation,
respectively. Gls(T) is the difference in Gibbs free
energy between liquid and solid phases. The
heterogeneous nucleation rate has a correction factor
f() =〔 2-3cos()+cos3()〕 /4, which accounts for
lowering the energy barrier to heterogeneous nucleation
as characterized by the contact angle. In order to apply
the CNT to calculate the nucleation number from both
nucleation types, the nucleation parameters are referred
to those of Kisdarjono et al [17].
Numerical Method.
The governing equation was solved by using the finite
difference method. Compared with a glass substrate, the
a-Si film is very thin and is the primary variation zone of
temperature. Accordingly, an unequal-spacing grid is
used along the depth direction. Because the time
between two successive laser shots is much larger than
the duration time of a laser pulse, non-uniform time step
is utilized. The thermal and optical parameters used in
this calculation are shown in Table 1. The temperature
dependence of the thermal conductivity and specific heat
is considered in this work.
Table 1：Physical properties used in the numerical
simulation
Porperties a-Si glass
Heat capacity
C[Jg-1 K-1]
C(T)=0.952
+0.171T/68
5 Ref. [23]
C(T)=(aT+Cm)/(bT+1)
Cm =(aT+0.1657)/(bT+1)
a=5.1×10-4 , b=1.33×10-3
Ref. [23]
Thermal
conductivity
k [Wm-3 K-1]
Ref. [23] Ref. [23]
Reflectivity Ref. [23]
Latent heat
[kJ/mol] 50.55
Melting point
[K]
Tm=1550K
Ref. [11]
Absorption
coefficient
[cm-1]
106
Experiment Procedure
An amorphous silicon film on glass substrate is the
basic structure. The glass is Corning1737. The
experimental method of making a poly-Si thin film has
three primary steps. The first step is to use the physical
vapor deposition (PVD) method to produce an a-Si film
6FMT, grains do not form evenly and super large grains
can be obtained. In the calculation of average grain size,
the super large grain is regarded as a grain. However, the
grain consists of several different crystal directions,
which can be inferred from observing the cross section
photos.
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig.6 Cross section SEM photos of the poly-Si film
for different melting regimes and corresponding
schematic diagrams.(a) Partial melting, (b)Almost
complete melting and (c) Complete melting.
In the view of heat transfer, the more energy obtained
will have the longer solidification time, which leads to
the larger grain. This is consistent with the experimental
results when the intensity is not larger than 400 mJ/cm2.
However, the average grain size at 450 mJ/cm2 deviates
from this view.
From the solidification theory [7, 8], crystal
formation includes three primary steps: nucleation,
growth and impingement. When the melt temperature
cools down below the equilibrium solidification point, it
goes into the nucleation stage and then the growth one.
In the beginning of nucleation, the number of nucleus
increases very slowly. When the undercooling is over a
critical value, the increasing rate of the nucleus number
becomes very high. If the solidification belongs to the
equiaxed growth, the nucleation will finish until the
recalescence occurs. At growth stage, the radius of the
grain increases by absorbing liquid atoms until the
impingement takes place. In the impingement stage,
there is still some liquid among the grains that have the
same radii as in the previous stage. The grain
morphology is formed at the end of the stage. The
morphology of grain is influenced by the undercooling,
temperature gradient and growth rate.
The heat transfer view mentioned above is based on
the growth step, in which the larger absorbed energy of
silicon film results in the bigger grain. However, it does
not consider the effect of nucleation. The grain size is
strongly related to the number of nuclei. Fig. 7 shows
the computed maximum undercooling and nucleation
number. In the figure, when the intensity is not bigger
than 400 mJ/cm2, the undercooling and
0
100
200
300
400
500
100
120
140
160
180
200
50 150 250 350 450 550
Undercooling (K)
L
Nucleation number 102 (1/(um2))
U
nd
er
co
ol
in
g
(K
)
N
uc
le
at
io
n
nu
m
be
r
10
1
(1
/u
m
2 )
Laser intensity (mJ/cm2)
Fig.7 Undercooling, and nucleation number versus
laser intensity.
nucleation numbers of those intensities are similar and
therefore the growth condition dominates the final grain
size. As the fluence is higher than 400 mJ/cm2, the
undercooling increases very rapid with the fluence and
so does the nucleation number. Accordingly, the average
grain size decrease drastically when the fluence is over
400 mJ/cm2. However, the nucleation number oscillates
very significant in this region. This is due to the random
probability applied in the cellular automaton model. In a
large area, the random probability should not affect the
total or average physical value. However, since the
computed or real observation domain in this work is
very small, the nucleation number is influenced by the
random probability. The probability effect is very clear
for the fluence larger than 400 mJ/cm2 due to the large
undercooling. Consequently, this could explain why the
grain size oscillates after the FMT. The phenomenon can
also be seen in the experimental results of other research
[19].
According to the energy intensity, the melt pool of
Si film can be divided into three conditions, which can
be referred to the numerical and experimental results
shown above:
