I中文摘要
本研究計畫進行實體浮力通風機制試驗前之局部縮小模型試驗以及模擬，包括簡化之縮呎
水槽模型以及縮呎實體建築模型。簡化縮呎水槽模型的研究目的為研究建築結構物的自然
通風機制，以自然通風的方式調節室內溫度。室內空間的主要使用區域大部分位於該空間
的下層，為了能夠有效利用自然通風調節室內溫度，所以將室內溫度的控制專注於下層溫
度的調節。本研究探討不同熱源高度與室內空間上、下層溫度和流場的關係。觀察室內流
場及溫度場相對應之變化，研究利用基礎點熱源理論推導點熱源強度和對流強度的關係，
以實驗室縮小長方體壓克力箱模擬室內空間環境。並將此一模型置於一環境水槽中，藉由
改變熱源高度與室內空間的高度比，量測室內對流的溫度分佈與流場變化。並以理論公式
估算，室內對流達到穩態時，上層空間溫度和交界面位置。經由理論和實驗的結果可以知
道隨著熱源高度越高，上層空間的溫度越高，上下層空間的交界面高度也越高，室內空間
在開口處的流量則越低。熱源置於高處可以減少熱源影響下層空間溫度，使下層區域高度
更高，但通風量減少，上層溫度增高。此外，本研究計畫也在實驗室對一棟縮呎實體建築
模型進行溫度、壓力差與速度的測量，進行量測建築物模型的通風研究，實驗建築模型為
1/50 縮尺模型。
關鍵詞：熱源高度，浮力置換式通風，熱升流，交界面，溫度。
1一、研究目的
Nowadays ventilation in buildings consumes a large amount of energy in modern countries; in
particular, air conditioning systems have become increasingly popular in these years. Since many
areas in the world face the energy shortages and the crisis of global warming in recent years, it
becomes an important issue to maintain comfortable environment inside buildings while
conserving energy. Natural convection strategy is the most convenient and economical way to
maintain indoor air quality. Understanding how flow patterns are established in a room under
different conditions is a first step towards the investigation of present designs, and furthermore
provides input on improvement of the current ventilation strategies.
Air flow patterns play a significant role on ventilation design of buildings. Characteristics of
different flow patterns result in different ventilation efficiencies in indoor environment.
Appropriate ventilation design is always believed to increase the productivity of occupants and
provide a good healthy environment. Spaces in buildings usually have different shapes for their
own functions and that raises the challenge on efficient ventilation design in each space. The
motivation for this research is to investigate the fundamental physical principles that determine
buoyancy-driven ventilation and combination of buoyancy and mechanical ventilation patterns
inside buildings.
This research is to study the effect of a heat source at different heights in a displacement
ventilation space. In ventilation design, a heat plume source is often positioned at a different
height above the base of the space. For example, a lamp, a computer or a heater is not on the floor
level but usually on a table or at some height in the room.
二、文獻探討
Many of the previous works on natural ventilation were on the single-space ventilation problem.
Linden, Lane-Serff & Smeed [1] derived a mathematical model of steady-state natural ventilation
in a single-room. The room in this model is connected to the infinite homogenous environment
via a top opening and a bottom opening in the room. After the buoyancy source injects buoyancy
fluid for some time, a steady-state interface forms in this room. This model has been successfully
verified with experimental results. The mathematical equation states that the interface in a room
with one heat source only depends on the size of connecting openings. This provides a simple and
useful guideline for ventilation designs.
After this model was published, many natural ventilation researchers started from this model and
worked on more complicated problems. Cooper and Linden [2] extended this model to consider
3their experiments when a heat source was presented in a displacement ventilation space. There is
a steep density gradient at the interface and the density in the buoyant layer is almost uniform. In
this steady state the volume flux in the plume at the interface is equal to the flux through the two
openings, since air can only cross the stable interface inside the buoyant plume (Figure 1).
When the heat plume starts to inject buoyant fluid, it first collects at the top of the chamber.
Warm air accumulating at the ceiling of the chamber leaves at the top and cool air enter from
beneath to displace the space. For a steady state, the volume flow rates outQ at the top opening
and inQ at the bottom opening must be equal to satisfy the volume conservation law, i.e.
in outQ Q Q  . (1)
Applying the two-layer stratification assumption in the space, the two densities are taken to be
f (the density of the buoyant layer) and w (the density of the lower layer and also the
density of the ambient environment).
The pressure distributions are represented in the Figure 2, where fP and aP denote the
pressures in the chamber and ambient environment, respectively. The neutral level is the height
where pressures are equal in the chamber and the ambient environment and is denoted by nh in
Figure 2.
Figure 2. The thicker solid line represents the pressure profile fP in the chamber, and the
dashed line represents the pressure profile aP in the ambient environment. The neutral level
where the pressures are equal in the chamber and the ambient environment is nh .
The process of derivative had been presented in Lin [8]. The interface of the single chamber
maintains steady state since the inflow is equal to the outflow, as well as the input heat flux is
equal to the exit heat flux. Here I also make this equation non-dimensional with 2H , where H
is the height of the chamber, to get the Eq. (2),
3 1
2 2
5*
0
2
( )
[ ]
1
f
f
A
C
H
 




, (2)
5flux of hot water, 160±10 c.c./min., into the tank in each experiment.
The flow structure was captured by laser-light sheet scattering flow visualization method and
particle image velocimetry. Polymer 50 μm particles were used as tracers in flow visualization 
and mixed with the supplying hot water. Experimental images were recorded by UniqVision
UP900DS-CL CCD camera and Bitflow R64e framegrabber directly into hard disk.
The thermal structure of the flow was measured by a series of T-type thermocouples, which were
placed at the sidewall of the small tank, every 2.5 cm high for one measurement point and the
total 15 points in the small experiment tank.
The flow structure was captured by a laser-light sheet scattering flow visualisation method.
Polymer size of 50 μm particles were used as tracers in flow visualization and mixed with 
supplying hot water. Experimental images were recorded by UniqVision UP900DS-CL CCD
camera and Bitflow R64e framegrabber directly onto a hard disk. Figure 4 shows a typical
instantaneous image of the flow in the steady state, when the heat source position 0h is at 10 cm
high.
Figure 4. An instantaneous image of the flow in the steady state when the heat source position 0h
is at 10 cm high.
In this report, experimental measurements in a seven-floor building model are presented and
discussed too. The building model is a reduced scale of 50 times to a real design building. Figure
5 shows isometric and three independent axes views of the building model. The model is made of
acrylic plastic.
In this research, experimental results of buoyancy-driven ventilation and combination of
buoyancy-driven and mechanical ventilation are presented. Heat source level and heating power
7Table 1. Varied power strength of buoyancy-driven ventilation
Case
_Power
Total
Power
(W)
Heat
Source
Area
(m2)
Isolation
(W/ m2)
Case H5 4.5 775
Case H10 9.45 1630
Case H20 22.4 3862
Case H40 39 6724
Case H60 60 10345
Case H80 80.1 13810
Case
H100
99
5.5*10-3
17070
Figure 5. Isometric and three independent directions views of the building model.
9五、附錄 (工作成果)
(A) 研討會論文：
International Conferences:
1. Lin, Y. J. P. (2008), “Displacement Ventilation of a Heat Source at Diferent Heights.” The 9th 
International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, paper no: 126, Reykjavik, Iceland (Aug. 17 -
21).
2. Lin, Y. J. P. & Xu, Z. Y. (2009), “Natural displacement ventilation of a heat source at diferent 
heights.” ROOMVENT 2009, the 11th International Conference on Air Distribution in Rooms, 
paper no: 398, BEXCO, Busan, Korean, (May 24 - 27).
3. Lin, Y. J. P. & Sie, R. J. (2009),“A study on ventilation of a reduced-scale building model.”
Intelligent Buildings and Smart Homes (IBASH) Conference, NTUST, Taipei, Taiwan, (Nov. 18 -
20).
National Conferences:
1. 許志毅、李俊賢、林怡均 (2008)，“室內環境自然對流研究- 熱源高度位置與室內流場之關
係(實驗室縮小模型)。”中國機械工程學會第二十五屆研討會，彰化大葉大學， (Nov. 22 -
23) 。
2. 李俊賢、黃俊傑、林怡均 (2009)，“單一及兩連接建築空間之自然對流研究。”第 33屆全國
力學會議，國立聯合大學理工學院，苗栗， (Nov. 13 - 14) 。
(B) 技術授權：
林怡均、黃榮芳 (2009)，“建築物複合置換式通風技術。”技術授權花蓮縣慈濟靜思精舍，起迄日：
2009/08/01 - //。
(C) 學生論文：
1. 許志毅，室內環境自然對流研究-熱源高度位置與室內流場之關係(實驗室縮小模型)，碩士論
文，台灣科技大學營建工程學系，2008。
2. 陳國欽，相連兩房置換式通風之數值研究，碩士論文，台灣科技大學機械工程學系，2008。
3. 李俊賢，單一及兩連接建築空間自然對流之研究，碩士論文，台灣科技大學機械工程學系，
2009。
4. 王智勇，研究運用太陽煙囪以及 Trombe wall 於自然通風設計建築，碩士論文，台灣科技大
學機械工程所，2009。
5. 張智超，設置垂直式水洞圓管噴流實驗，碩士論文，台灣科技大學機械工程所，2009。
11
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
■ 可申請專利 ■ 可技術移轉 日期：98 年 10 月 15 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：開放式主被動複合熱環境控制實驗與實驗系統建置
計畫主持人：林怡均
計畫編號：NSC97-2221-E-011-121- 學門領域：建築都市
技術/創作名稱 複合置換式通風技術
發明人/創作人 林怡均、黃榮芳
中文： 本開發技術提供一用於單一以及複數樓層之建物的置換式
通風系統，其包含複數個自然進氣口、複數個強制進氣口、複數個
進氣管路與出氣模組、複數個排氣管路與排氣模組、一排氣口與設
置於建物每層側壁上方以導出氣流之複數個出氣口。
技術說明
英文：
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
建築營建產業、機械工業
技術特點
本發明之一目的在於提供一種置換式通風系統，使建築內之通風效
果較不易受季節、地點與氣候等因素之影響，且本發明之通風效率
高，可形成一較大的氣體流通區域，以提昇建築內部氣體的流通速
度，達到較佳的對流效果，並能降低製作成本。
推廣及運用的價值
傳統的冷氣系統皆以「冷空氣下降、熱空氣上升」為理論，因此設
計重點將冷氣出口擺在上方，下降的冷氣噴流在下吹過程易與上升
的熱氣混合，溫度已經比出口處高；因此於上方出風口射出的冷氣
溫度必須降低以維持下層溫度的需求，耗費能源。為了減輕上述缺
點而將噴流改為本研究結果之開發技術。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
附件二
