 2
斷系統，提高單一診斷工具之精確度與可性度，達到有效提高腫瘤良惡性
判斷的精確性之目的。 
 
文獻探討 
臨床上有許多輔助乳癌觸診診斷的方法。Dinsmore 等[6]提出一套虛擬仿真
觸覺系統，讓缺乏經驗的實習生在臨床觸診前，藉由學習觸摸尋找軟組織表面底
下的腫瘤，累積相當的經驗。Ladeji-Osias 等[7]利用觸覺檢測乳房組織之軟硬程
度，追蹤女性乳房中可能會產生腫瘤病變之區域。X光乳房攝影，超音波乳房攝
影診斷，磁振造影等，以非侵入式的診斷方法，提供臨床醫師在判斷腫瘤良惡性
更加準確，達到早期發現、早期治療。但透過型態學進行診斷，不確定性很大，
導至微陽性的穿刺率偏高，因此近些年來有非侵入式的彈性影像，作為第二意見
的依據，彈性影像藉由測量組織中的軸向壓縮以及位移，以計算出組織之張力
（Strain），組成張力圖（Strain image）[11]。由於惡性腫瘤比周遭的組織都更硬，
因此被壓迫時，惡性腫瘤比較不會被壓縮，但是良性腫瘤與周圍乳房的柔軟組織
在接受同樣壓力時，則會被壓縮比較多，呈現相近的彈性影像特徵。所以在彈性
影像中可以區分惡性腫瘤與良性腫瘤。彈性影像是以影像探究組織物理特性之彈
性。 
 
研究方法 
本研究建置一手持式腫瘤硬度的診斷裝置如圖一所示，建立本裝置系統之力
學模型如圖二所示，利用 2-D建模方式建構本裝置之力學模型，優點在於可簡化
力學系統之複雜度，且不失系統之物理特性。 
 
                  
 4
  
圖四、深度補償示意圖 
為了實現此深度補償機制，本研究利用單點下壓探測策略（indentation）分
別於腫瘤上方與軟組織上方進行下壓實驗。目的在於驗證 indentation探測略與橫
向探測略之間有無差異性。經實驗驗証後發現二者之間並無太大之差異存在，如
圖五與圖六所示。因此本研究採用單點下壓探測策略於無腫瘤部份以及腫瘤上方
部份分別做一組 reference data，利用此 reference data進行深度補償之機制。 
 
 
圖五、探測法(單點下壓)於無腫瘤與腫瘤上方之實驗示意圖 
 
 6
進行預測腫瘤硬度。 
本研究採用不同大小、不同深度、不同腫瘤硬度之樣本，進行利用手持式乳
癌診斷裝置之實驗結果預測比較。表一、圖八為利用手持式系統進行橫向探測實
驗，但未經過補償機制之預測結果。表二、圖九為利用手持式系統進行橫向探測
實驗，經過補償機制之預測結果。表三、圖十為利用工業機器人驗證之預測結果。 
可以發現未經過補償機制，其預測腫瘤硬度效果極差，對於硬腫瘤而言其現
象最為明顯。因在進行橫向探測過程中，當超音波要劃過較硬腫瘤時，難免會不
自主地將超音波探頭往上抬，並不會如機器人一般硬推過去；因此所萃取出來力
量曲線之振幅特徵都遠小於機器人所萃取出來力量曲線之振幅特徵，如表一，當
然影響到後續生物力學模型硬度的預測結果。因力量曲線之物理特徵較小，導致
本生物力學模型會判斷出此案例係屬於硬度較低之腫瘤，預測成功率只有 26
％，而且其硬度比誤差高達 2.5。 
相反地，若在進行橫向探測過程中，當超音波要劃過較軟腫瘤時；因腫瘤硬
度較軟，代表操作者有足夠的能力、足夠的力量能夠不將探頭往上抬，即可劃過
含有腫瘤範圍，因此有較高之機會能夠一次就能擷取出完善且足以描述該腫瘤力
學性質之力量曲線特徵。 
但若是經過本研究所提供之補償機制，不必再為了嘗試那較高機會能夠一次
就能擷取出完善且足以描述該腫瘤力學性質之力量曲線特徵，而一再地反覆進行
橫向探測實驗，不僅費時，且準確性之參考價值低。因此突顯出本研究所提供之
補償機制，不僅實用性高，其預測出腫瘤硬度比之誤差瞬間降為 0.5233，遠比未
補償前預測出腫瘤硬度比之誤差 2.449還要來的低；不但誤差低且準確性又高，
而且又與工業機器人之驗證組相差不遠。因此證明出本研究所發展之手持式乳癌
診斷裝置以及其補償系統有其高度之可靠性及準確性。 
 
表一、未經補償前之手持式預測結果 
腫瘤
大小
(mm) 
腫瘤
深度
(mm) 
下壓
深度
(mm)
 
 
硬度比
預測
硬度 誤差 
15 1 3.3 9 0.6021 8.3979 
15 5 4.3 9 4.5823 4.4177 
12 1 3.8 9 6.2817 2.7183 
12 5 4.6 9 8.7764 0.2236 
15 1 3.7 5 1.0131 3.9869 
15 5 4.5 5 4.5985 0.4015 
12 1 6 5 2.4443 2.5557 
15 1 4.6 2 2.1503 0.1503 
15 5 4.6 2 1 1 
 8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Test set
S
tif
fn
es
s
 
 
Target
Output
 
 圖九 經過補償後之手持式預測結果 
 
表三 機器人驗證實驗之預測結果 
腫瘤
大小
(mm) 
腫瘤
深度
(mm) 
下壓
深度
(mm)
 
硬度比
預測
硬度 誤差 
15 1 3.3 9 8.2665 0.7335 
15 5 4.3 9 9.2174 0.2174 
12 1 3.8 9 8.5204 0.4796 
12 5 4.6 9 8.9414 0.0586 
15 1 3.7 5 4.562 0.438 
15 5 4.5 5 5.4582 0.4582 
12 1 6 5 4.9834 0.0165 
15 1 4.6 2 2.1673 0.1673 
15 5 4.6 2 2.6827 0.6827 
12 1 5 2 1.2971 0.7029 
 
RMSE=0.5233 
 國際會議出國報告 
 
 
 
 
 
亞洲電腦輔助外科手術會議 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
服務機關：國立台灣大學  
生物產業機電工程學系 
姓名職稱：顏炳郎 助理教授 
 
出國期間：2010/4/28~4/30 
報告日期：2010/5/5 
經費來源：國科會 
           
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
心得及建議 
建議應鼓勵醫界與工程界，特別是台灣國內開發骨科醫材的廠商能共同參與此會
議，了解如何經營亞洲的 CAOS市場。 
 
 
  
目的 
CAOS-International 年度會議，是在電腦輔助導航骨科手術領域中，最重要的國
際會議，此會議聚集來自全世界應用 CAOS的外科醫師，開發 CAOS的研究團
隊，以及 CAOS技術提供的重要廠商，可以即時掌握在此領域第一時間的最新
研究資訊，也可以了解此領域未來的研究趨勢。 
 
過程 
今年 CAOS-International 的 2010年度會議在法國巴黎舉行，會議內容重點逐漸
從往年的 total knee arthroplasty, total hip arthroplasty的主題，擴展到 spine, trauma, 
shoulder以及 tumor等手術應用，可見應用 CAOS的成功案例越來越廣。技術部
分也逐漸討論到如何利用影像處理的技術，針對 C-arm產生的 X光影像，進行
3D立體重建，達成如同 CT影像相同功能，同時具有低成本與即時影像的優勢，
在全膝關節置換手術部分，從往年著重於切骨的精度改善，今年著重於韌帶的平
衡的定量量測，同時也探討各種微創手術方法與臨床結果，可見整個 CAOS的
發展走向，將朝著包含軟組織的微創骨科手術前進。也有來自 CAOS的廠商在
會議現場展示所開發的設備，每年均有新產品與新功能的發表，顯示在此領域技
術需求與創新發展的快速，此外本次的 CAOS會議也有 6場的 workshop，針對
CAOS的核心技術與應用介紹，但因為需要昂貴的註冊費用，受限於有限的經費
沒有參加，所以覺得有遺珠之憾。 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
10
th
 Annual Meeting 
of the International Society 
for Computer Assisted 
Orthopaedic Surgery 
 
 
 
 
 
Preliminary Program 
 
(as of May 2, 2010) 
 
Paris, France 
June 16-19, 2010 
  
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
3 
 
Wednesday, June 16, 2010 
Pre-Congress Educational Workshops 
After the great success last year, we will again offer a number of pre-congress educational workshops – even more than 
in 2009! A faculty of renowned experts will comprehensively introduce workshop participants to selected topics related 
to computer assisted orthopaedic surgery. 
Two basic workshops will run in parallel and take place at 11:00-14:00 followed by six parallel advanced workshops 
(14:00-18:15). 
Basic Workshop I – Introduction to CAOS for clinicians new to the activity 
Organizers:   Stéphane Lavallée and Leo Joskowicz 
The goal of this workshop is to explain to clinicians the basic technical concepts of CAOS and their current use in 
clinical orthopaedic procedures. Technical concepts include visualization, segmentation, and modeling of anatomical 
structures from preoperative CT images, computer-based preoperative planning, real-time tracking, imaging, and 
registration for intraoperative navigation, and robot-assisted intraoperative execution. Computer-based procedures 
include total hip and total knee replacement, spinal procedures, ACL reconstruction, and fracture reduction and fixation. 
Basic Workshop II – Introduction to CAOS for technologists new to the activity 
Organizers:   Eric Stindel and Paul Alfred Grützner 
Computer assisted surgery, including new technologies of intraoperative 3D imaging, is indispensable in orthopaedic 
and trauma surgery since many years. This workshop is aiming at students and young engineers, providing an overview 
on the actual status of CAOS in clinical use. 
For future developments, an intense dialogue between developers, researchers and physicians is essential. Efficient 
research must be orientated on clinical problems and needs. For that purpose an understanding of special conditions in 
the operation room and of limitations of existing technology is very important. The common goal of engineers and 
clinicians is the development of more precise, more reliable, simpler and - last but not at least - more cost efficient 
systems for relevant and demanding problems. 
This workshop is conducted by physicians with many years of personal experience in computer assisted orthopaedic 
surgery. It will provide its participants with the unique opportunity of getting personal contact for questions and for 
discussion. 
Advanced Workshop I – Custom-made surgical guides 
Organizers:   Klaus Radermacher and Hans-Walter Staudte 
The individual template (or customized surgical guides) approach has been originally developed and evaluated in 
different clinical applications in orthopaedic surgery in the early 1990s. Meanwhile, applications in other disciplines 
such as cranio-facial surgery as well as dental implantology have been established. Due to its intraoperative simplicity 
and intuitive handling together with a proven effectiveness and efficiency for selected applications, the individual 
template approach today is adopted by many clinicians and companies world wide. The workshop will provide a critical 
review of the benefits and bottlenecks of the template technique - from a historical review to its actual techniques and 
applications. 
The workshop will include topics such as:  
 Information acquisition and preprocessing (CT, MR, initial approaches, current techniques and future trends...) 
 Planning systems for different applications 
 Manufacturing approaches and techniques 
 Surgical techniques and applications 
 Clinical outcomes review 
 Usability and workflow considerations 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
5 
 
Advanced Workshop V – Novel Technologies & Biomechanics 
Organizers:   Wafa Skalli and Branislav Jaramaz 
Several novel technologies have been introduced in CAOS in recent years. Some are based on on new generation of 
sensors and devices, and some on synergistic approaches that combine CAOS with new advances in biological sciences 
and Biomechanics. 
Apart from progress in surgical guidance techniques, Biomechanics and novel technologies lead to progress in surgery 
planning and evaluation. This workshop will address the following topics in two sessions of four presentations each: 
Novel technologies for surgical guidance: 
 Advances in position tracking 
 Sensors and CAOS 
 Small robots and intelligent devices for CAOS 
 CAOS and tissue engineering 
Biomechanics and Novel technologies for surgery planning and evaluation: 
 Innovative implants and process 
 Devices and models 
 CAOS and osteoporosis 
The workshop will present a broader overview of the state of the art of each topic as well as the authors' own experience 
in the respective field. It will address the novel approaches in research and the applications in clinical practice. 
Advanced Workshop VI – Statistical Shape Modeling and 2D-3D Reconstruction 
Organizers:   Mauricio Reyes and Guoyan Zheng 
Statistical shape analysis is an important tool for understanding anatomical structures from medical images. Statistical 
shape models give efficient parameterization of the shape variations found in a collection of sample models of a given 
population. Model-based approaches are popular due to their ability to robustly represent objects. In the last ten years, 
constructing a patient-specific shape model from a limited number of calibrated x-ray images has drawn more and more 
attentions. Among possible applications, the need for CT/MRI data to gather bone morphological information can be 
eliminated, pathologies can be automatically detected, and structural biomechanical behavior of human structures can 
be efficiently incorporated in surgical planning and simulation. 
The aim of the workshop is to introduce and present statistical shape modeling and 2D-3D reconstruction to researchers 
working in Computer Assisted Orthopedic Surgery (CAOS) and related topics. The workshop will focus on two main 
aspects: statistical shape models and their applications, and the 2D-3D reconstruction algorithms and their applications 
to orthopaedic research and intervention. 
The workshop will be presented by a varied list of internationally renowned speakers working actively on the topics of 
statistical shape modeling and 2D-3D reconstruction. The workshop aims at illuminating not only the methodologies 
but also the practical aspects of these technologies. 
Welcome reception at the Industrial Exhibition 
 18:15 REGISTRATION AND CAOS-INTERNATIONAL WELCOME RECEPTION 
Participants of the above workshops are invited to join participants of the main conference in celebrating our 
Anniversary, the 10th Annual Meeting of CAOS-International. This reception takes place in the industrial 
exhibition of the meeting. 
 21:00 END OF THE DAY 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
7 
 
 9:47 Kinematics-based knee flexion axis. An in-vitro comparison between derivations from tibio-femoral and 
patello-femoral joint motion 
Belvedere C, Leardini A, Ensini A, Cenni F, Catani F, Giannini S 
 9:51 DISCUSSION 
Coffee Break and Poster Session – Part 1 
 10:00 POSTERS S1-S6 WERE RATED “SPECIAL POSTERS” INDICATING AN EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY OF THIS WORK. 
POSTERS WILL BE PRESENTED IN FIVE SESSIONS, DURING WHICH THE AUTHORS OF THE RESPECTIVE SESSION’S 
POSTERS WILL BE PRESENT AT THE POSTER BOOTHS. HOWEVER, ALL POSTERS AND SPECIAL POSTERS OF ALL 
SESSIONS WILL BE ON DISPLAY DURING THE ENTIRE TIME OF THE MEETING. 
S1) Medico-economic evaluation of surgical navigation in the treatment of deficiencies of anterior cruciate 
ligament of the knee 
Plaweski S 
S2) Lateral compartment translation in posterolateral corner injuries of the knee: a cadaveric study with 
navigated measurements 
Suero EM, Petrigliano FA, Citak M, Delos D, Bosscher MRF, Pearle AD 
S3) Prospective intraoperative comparisons of computer-assisted double-bundle versus computer-assisted single-
bundle anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction 
Grimaldi M, Plaweski S 
S4) Intra-operative analysis of knee dynamic stability during ACL reconstruction: anatomic double-bundle vs. 
single-bundle plus lateral plasty 
Zaffagnini S, Lopomo N, Bignozzi S, Signorelli C, Visani A 
S5) Orientation of the femoral component in resurfacing arthroplasty of the hip: in-vitro comparison of accuracy 
of computer navigation and mechanical jigs 
Bansal R, Verma R, Gambhir AK, Murphy P 
S6) Navigating cup orientation with individualized guides during hip resurfacing 
Kunz M, Rudan JF 
1) Combined graft-elongation maps from in vivo kinematics data for knee laxity assessment during navigated 
ACL reconstruction 
Fernandez A, Promayon E, Moreau-gaudry A, Plaweski S, Cinquin P 
2) Influence of applied valgus force during mechanized pivot shift: computer assisted measurements in a 
cadaveric study 
Bosscher MRF, Suero EM, Pearle AD, Citak M 
3) Software for compartmental translation analysis and virtual 3D visualization of the pivot shift phenomenon 
Suero EM, Choi D, Citak M, Bosscher MRF, Pearle AD, Plaskos C 
4) Evaluation of in vivo hip joint center estimation by three methods 
Pillet H, Hausselle J, Sudhoff I, Bonnet X, Skalli W 
5) Biomechanical role of lahlaïdi meniscoligamentous band: a knee kinematic model based on navigation 
station data for computer-assisted knee surgery 
Zemirline A, Stindel E, Zemirline A, Dubrana F 
6) The association between shape descriptors of segmented areas of subchondral sclerosis of the upper tibia and 
the mechanical axis of the lower limb 
Sampath SAC, Davies H, Voon SH 
7) Gender-specific total knee replacement. Is it better fit female anatomic variations? 
Song EK, Seon JK, Lee DS, Jeong MS, Park HW, Lee DH 
8) Assessment of acetabular anteversion aligned with the transverse acetabular ligament – cadaveric study 
using image-free navigation system 
Fukunishi S, Fukui T, Nishio S, Fujihara Y, Yoshiya S 
9) Analysis of artificial hip joint dislocation considering muscles around a hip joint 
Hayashi Y, Horie T, Kiguchi K, Ueno M, Kobayashi T, Mawatari M, Hotokebuchi T 
10) A comparison of different biomechanical hip-models 
Eschweiler J, Fieten L, Belei P, Kabir K, De La Fuente M, Radermacher K 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
9 
 
 11:51 DISCUSSION 
Session VI – Modeling and Simulation 
Chairmen:   N.N. and N.N. 
 12:00 Optimization of statistical shape models of the innominate bone 
Turner AW, Davies BL, Rodriguez Y Baena F 
 12:07 Segmenting peri-prosthetic femoral tissues in patients suffering aseptic loosening: a statistical CT image 
voxel classifier 
Malan DF, Botha CP, Tax DMJ, Loog M, Nelissen RGHH, Valstar ER 
 12:14 A simulator for learning percutaneous orthopaedic surgery 
Larcher A, Tonetti J, Luengo V, Ceaux E, Vadcard L, Dubois M 
 12:21 DISCUSSION 
Keynote Lecture I 
 12:30 Preoperative planning and postoperative assessment in spine surgery 
Jean Dubousset, Paris, France 
Lunch Break 
 13:00 LUNCH BREAK AT THE INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION  
Session VII – Total Knee Arthroplasty, Part 1 – Kinematics and Outcomes 
Chairmen:   Michael L. Swank and Manuela Kunz 
 14:00 Computer-assisted measurements of coronal knee joint laxity in-vitro are related to low stress behaviour 
rather than structural properties of the collateral ligaments 
Wilson W, Deakin AH, Wearing SC, Payne AP, Picard F 
 14:07 Intra-operative laxity of knee with cruciate retaining TKA using the balanced gap technique 
Seon JK, Song EK, Park SJ, Jeong MS, Park JK, Lee DS 
 14:14 Postero-stabilised total knee replacements modify knee kinematics: an intraoperative study using navigation 
Massin, P, Boyer P 
 14:21 DISCUSSION 
 14:30 Navigation of the trochlea (Amplivision®): a new approach to balancing the extensor apparatus during 
implantation of a total knee replacement. Preliminary radiographic results after 3 months 
Peronne E, Chatenet T, Van Hille W, Lamglais E, Regnier C 
 14:37 Does navigation reduce the number of fixed flexion contractures after total knee arthroplasty? Two year 
review of 831 TKAs 
Ahmad A, Maheshwari R, Deakin AH, Picard F 
 14:44 Variation of valgus osteoarthritic knee alignment in flexion before and after TKA with different navigation 
techniques 
Mihalko WM, Kammerzell S, Saleh KJ, Hakki S 
 14:51 DISCUSSION 
 15:00 How can computer assisted surgery help to achieve high flexion in TKR? 
Toupin JM 
 15:07 Computer-assisted non-constrained total knee arthroplasty with osteotomy of the lateral femoral condyle for 
severe valgus deformation 
Nizard R, Aim F, Zadegan F, Raould A, Hannouche D 
 15:14 Computer navigation versus conventional total knee replacement: a prospective, randomized control trial 
showing no difference in functional results at five years 
Harvie P, Sloan K, Beaver RJ 
 15:21 DISCUSSION 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
11 
 
41) Experimental approach of fracture of leg with computer navigation 
Normand J, Harisboure A, Leitner F, Pinzuti JB, Masson-Sibut M, Dehoux E 
42) Can 3D computer planning help optimize acetabular column screw placement? 
Nakhla A, Richards R, Davda K, Lewis A, Abdelazeem H, Cobb J 
43) Quantification of lateral compartment translation magnitudes during pivot shift test in knees with 
unicompartmental knee replacement and single-bundle ACL reconstruction 
Citak M, Bosscher MRF, Musahl V, Pearle AD, Suero EM 
44) Navigated, minimal invasive, mobile bearing unicompartmental knee prosthesis. A 2-year follow-up study 
Jenny JY, Saussac F, Louis P 
45) Navigated uni-compartmental knee replacement – should we be lowering our threshold for bone conserving 
surgery? A functional and radiological review of seventy-five cases 
Windley J, Ball S, Nathwani D 
46) Proximal femoral tilt and its effect on range-of-motion 
Haimerl M, Gneiting S, Dohmen L, Herzog A, Kramer S, Woerner M, Sendtner E, Renkawitz T 
47) Statistical method for detemining acetabular cup orientaion error introduction 
Thornberry RL, Barbu A, Martin JD, Toole GC 
48) Impingement detection post total hip arthroplasty using patient-specific modeling 
Lin F,, Kadono N, Wixson R L, Hendrix R, Loan J P, Makhsous M, 
49) Interest of navigation in the control of the leg length during total hip replacement. Prospective study of 65 
cases 
Châtain FG, Barthelemy R, Delalande JL, Tayot O, Chavane F, Béjui-Hugues J, Scor G 
50) Variability of the anterior pelvic plane to the hip center ASIS pelvic plane 
Thornberry RL, Martin JD, Toole GC, Barbu A 
51) Comparison of anatometric data between the native hip and after a total prosthesis with a modular neck for 
centred degenerative hip disease 
Merloz, PF, Eid, A, Bourgeois, E, Tonetti, J 
Session VIII – Oncology 
Chairmen:   André Bauer and Philippe Cinquin 
 16:30 Bone sarcomas: computers assist the surgical treatment 
Paul L, Cartiaux O, Docquier PL, Delloye C, Banse X 
 16:37 Merged CT/MRI data for navigated soft tissue tumour resection of the pelvis and spine 
Schultheiss M, Arand M, Gebhard F 
 16:44 Computer-assisted allograft selection for transepiphyseal tumor resection at the knee 
Bou Sleiman H, Ritacco LE, Reyes M 
 16:51 DISCUSSION 
Session IX – Shoulder 
Chairmen:   N.N. and N.N. 
 17:00 CT-based custom jig for glenoid component alignment in reverse total shoulder arthroplasty 
Suero EM, Lo D, Citak M, Bosscher MRF, O'Loughlin PF, Pearle AD 
 17:07 Evaluation of recognition-based segmentation method for shoulder augmented surgery 
Chaoui J,,, Moineau G,, Stindel E,, Hamitouche C, 
 17:14 DISCUSSION 
 17:20 END OF THE DAY 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
13 
 
Session XII – Spine, Part 1 – Outcomes 
Chairmen:   Jean-Charles le Huec and Klaus Radermacher 
 10:30 Fluoroscopy-based navigation versus conventional procedure in spine surgery 
Merloz PF, Moreau-Gaudry A, Vouaillat H, Sadok B, Tonetti J, Troccaz J, Bongiorno V, Bodin A 
 10:37 Robotic assisted spinal surgery 
Barzilay Y, Schroeder JE, Libergall M, Hasharoni A, Kaplan L 
 10:44 Two-year experience with 3D-navigation in posterior instrumentation of the cervical spine – reliability, 
application and benefit 
Blattert TR, Jarvers JS, Katscher S, Josten C 
 10:51 DISCUSSION 
 11:00 8 years of clinical experience in navigation assisted upper cervical spine surgery 
Tian WEI, Lang ZHAO 
 11:07 Robotic assisted vertebral cement augmentation: a radiation reduction tool 
Schroeder JE, Kaplan L, Hasharoni A, Joskowicz L, Barzilay Y 
 11:14 Comparison of the clinical accuracy of different methods for cervical (C2-C7) pedicle screw insertion 
Liu Y, Tian W, Liu B, Li Q, Hu L, Li Z, Yuan Q, Zhang G 
 11:21 DISCUSSION 
Coffee Break and Poster Session – Part 3 
 11:30 POSTERS S12-S17 WERE RATED “SPECIAL POSTERS” INDICATING AN EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY OF THIS WORK. 
POSTERS WILL BE PRESENTED IN FIVE SESSIONS, DURING WHICH THE AUTHORS OF THE RESPECTIVE SESSION’S 
POSTERS WILL BE PRESENT AT THE POSTER BOOTHS. HOWEVER, ALL POSTERS AND SPECIAL POSTERS OF ALL 
SESSIONS WILL BE ON DISPLAY DURING THE ENTIRE TIME OF THE MEETING. 
S12) Comparative study of robotic and conventional total knee arthroplasty after a minimum of 3-year follow-up 
Song EK, Seon JK, Jeong MS, Park SJ, Lee DS, Park JK 
S13) Effect of the rotational alignment of the tibial component 
Mitsuyasu H, Matsuda S, Fukagawa S, Miura H, Okazaki K, Tashiro Y, Kawahara S, Iwamoto Y 
S14) Midterm results of total knee arthroplasty using a navigation system 
Song EK, Seon JK, Jeong MS, Park JK, Park SJ, Seo CY, Lee DS 
S15) Navigated, mobile bearing total knee prosthesis. A 5‑year follow-up study 
Jenny JY, Schoenahl JY, Louis P 
S16) Ligament balance for varus knee in computer navigation total knee replacement 
Yau WP, Chiu KY 
S17) Change of rotational alignment of the femoral component for the balanced flexion gap after posterior 
cruciate ligament resection in total knee arthroplasty 
Song EK, Seon JK, Park SJ, Jeong MS, Park JK 
52) Accuracy of CT based hip navigation system with fluoroscopic registration compared with landmark 
registration 
Funayama A, Fujinaka T, Shimizu H, Okubo M, Yabuki Y, Fujita Y, Yanagimoto S, Toyama Y 
53) Computer assisted analysis of the acetabular entry plane – a facility for proper cup placement in total hip 
arthroplasty 
Radetzki F, Noser H, Stock K, Mendel T, Wohlrab D 
54) Digital templating of the non-affected hip as a means of minimizing leg-length discrepancy after primary 
total hip arthroplasty 
Swanson TV, Brown JM, Mamillapalli SK 
55) Accuracy of CT-based computer-assisted total hip arthroplasty 
Steppacher SD, Tannast M, Kowal J, Zheng G, Murphy SB 
56) Navigation system improved cup orientation in revision total hip arthroplasty 
Iwaki H, Ikebuchi M, Minoda Y, Yoshida T, Nishikino S, Nakamura H 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
15 
 
Keynote Lecture II 
 12:30 What will CAOS's future be? 
Jacques Demongeot, Grenoble, France 
Lunch Break and General Assembly of CAOS-International 
 13:00 LUNCH WILL BE SERVED IN THE INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION. ALL MEMBERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY 
FOR COMPUTER ASSISTED ORTHOPAEDIC SURGERY ARE KINDLY INVITED TO JOIN THE CAOS-INTERNATIONAL 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY IN THE LECTURE HALL. 
Session XIII – Ultrasound 
Chairmen:   Peter Keppler and Stéphane Lavallée 
 14:00 Patch-SSM based APP reconstruction from ultrasound images 
Schumann S, Schwaegli T, Haeni T, Siebenrock KA, Zheng G 
 14:07 Towards an arthrosonic environment 
Moerau-gaudry A,, Griardeau-montaut D, Meneses A, Mercier N, Gaudin P, Adler RS 
 14:14 Non invasive ultrasound-based bone tracking 
Schers J, Troccaz J, Fouard J 
 14:21 DISCUSSION 
Session XIV – Hip Resurfacing 
Chairmen:   Stephen B. Murphy and Carolyn Anglin 
 14:30 Computer-navigated core decompression for osteonecrosis 
Amzallag J, Dohn P, Laval G, Flouzat Lachianette CH, Jalil R, Ouanes R, Hernigou P 
 14:37 Hip resurfacing with individualized drill templates – comparison between antero-lateral and posterior 
approach 
Kunz M,, Rudan JF, Wood GCA, Ellis RE,, 
 14:44 3D-MRI based planning of hip resurfacing: a comparison with 3D-CT based planning 
Nakasone S, Takao M, Nishii T, Sakai T, Nakamura N, Sugano N 
 14:51 DISCUSSION 
Round Table I – ACL 
 15:00 Chairman: Burt Klos 
Participants: Stefano Zaffagnini, Jason Koh, Andrew Pearle, Stephan Plasewski 
Coffee Break and Poster Session – Part 4 
 15:30 POSTERS S18-S22 WERE RATED “SPECIAL POSTERS” INDICATING AN EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY OF THIS WORK. 
POSTERS WILL BE PRESENTED IN FIVE SESSIONS, DURING WHICH THE AUTHORS OF THE RESPECTIVE SESSION’S 
POSTERS WILL BE PRESENT AT THE POSTER BOOTHS. HOWEVER, ALL POSTERS AND SPECIAL POSTERS OF ALL 
SESSIONS WILL BE ON DISPLAY DURING THE ENTIRE TIME OF THE MEETING. 
S18) Automatically-optimized local phase features of ultrasound images: first clinical study 
Hacihaliloglu IH, Abugarbieh RA, Hodgson AH, Rohling RR, Guy PG 
S19) Two-step spine vertebra reconstruction from multiple endoscopic images under atlas constraints 
Wu C, Narasimhan S, Jaramaz B 
S20) Planned versus achieved cup orientation: a method for demonstrating the accuracy of CT based navigation 
Davda K, Nakhla A, Hart AJ, Cobb JP 
S21) Effects of femur shaft fracture type on robotic assisted fracture reduction 
Joung S, Doke T, Kobayashi E, Nakajima Y, Sugano N, Bessho M, Ohnishi I, Sakuma I 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
17 
 
99) Slice cutting surgical robot in total knee arthroplasty 
Hung SS, Yen PL, Lee MY 
100) Robot arm based flat panel CT-guided electromagnetic tracked spine interventions: phantom and animal 
model experiments 
Penzkofer T, Isfort P, Bruners P, Kyriakou Y, Kalender WA, Schmitz-Rode T, Mahnken AH 
101) Design of a novel hybrid 6dof external fixator system under consideration of special manufacturing 
boundary conditions in least developed countries 
Jansen A, Belei P, Schröder S, Portheine F, Radermacher K 
102) Sensitivity analysis of a biomechanical score for cup positioning in total hip arthroplasty 
Dell'Anna J, Fieten L, Eschweiler J, Maus U, Radermacher K 
103) An investigation of touch perception during interactions with an arthroscopic probe 
Tenzer Y, Schwingshackl C, Gondhalekar A, Davies BL, Rodriguez Y Baena F 
Session XV – Total Hip Arthroplasty, Part 2 – Frames of Reference and Outcome 
Chairmen:   Nubuhiko Sugano and Russel H. Taylor 
 16:30 Can transverse acetabular ligament be used for optimal cup placement using image less navigation in total 
hip arthroplasty? 
Swank M, Perumal V 
 16:07 Development of image-free hip navigation system for dysplastic coxarthritis 
Ohashi H, Inori F, Okamoto Y, Okajima Y, Fukunaga K, Matsuura M 
 16:14 Study of intra and extra-articular planes of reference for use in total hip replacement 
Hausselle J, De Thomasson E, Parratte S, Argenson JN, Wessely L, Moreau PE, Geais L, Skalli W 
 16:21 DISCUSSION 
 16:30 Functional anteversion of the acetabulum: importance of the assessment of the mobility at the lumbo-sacral 
joint for planning the implantation of a THA 
Lazennec JY, Boyer P, Gorin M, Catonné Y, Rousseau MA 
 16:37 Dynamic measurement of hip movement in deep bending activities after total hip arthroplasty using a 4-
dimensional motion analysis system 
Tsuda K, Miki H, Kitada M, Nakamura N, Suzuki N, Yonenobu K, Sugano N 
 16:44 Three dimensional alignments of acetabular cups after navigation THA measured with hip CAS system 
Tokunaga K, Watanabe K 
 16:51 DISCUSSION 
 17:00 Accuracy of robotically assisted acetabular cup implantation 
Dorr LD, Pagnano MW, Trousdale RT, Jamieson ML, Conditt MA 
 17:07 Activities of daily living of the patients after total hip arthroplasty using CT-based navigation system 
Nakamura N, Nishii T, Sugano N, Iwana D, Kitada M 
 17:14 Kinematics based computer assisted surgery for total hip replacement: results of 88 procedures with 
computed tomographis assesment of implant position 
Roumazeille T, Pinoit Y, Laffargue P, Migaud H 
 17:21 DISCUSSION 
CAOS-International Banquet 
 20:00 CAOS-INTERNATIONAL BANQUET 
The 2010 CAOS-International Banquet will take place in the Versailles Convention Center. The program 
will feature the following highlights: 
 Presentation of the Maurice E. Müller Award for Excellence in Computer Assisted Surgery 
 Introduction of the new CAOS-International President 
 Invitation to the 11th Annual Meeting of CAOS-International in London 
 23:00 END OF THE DAY 
Paris • June 16-19, 2010 
19 
 
107) Six degree of freedom load measurements in the hexapod external fixator 
Wendlandt R, Seide K, Schulz AP, Juergens C 
108) Distortion corrected electromagnetic needle tracking for spine interventions 
fElfring R, De La Fuente M, Penzkofer T, Radermacher K 
109) Contribution to the elaboration of a new co-evolutive technical-clinical design process in MIS 
Thomann G, Tonetti J, Rasoulifar R, Villeneuve F, Di Donato A 
110) What difference do the stylus, trackers, and screen layout make in CAOS adoption? 
Brewster JB, Yakish SD, Lyytinen KL 
111) A comprehensive computer-assisted application for diagnosis, planning and conduction of navigated joint 
preserving surgery in patients with femoroacetabular impingement 
Puls M, Ecker TM, Tannast M, Steppacher S, Bastian JD, Keel M, Siebnrock KA, Kowal JH 
112) The rationale and validation of an automated web-based electronic data capture measurement tool 
Stulberg SD, Yaffe M, Villacis DC, Bart G, Greene S 
113) Accuracy of 3D fluoroscopic navigation system using a flat panel detector-equipped C-arm 
Takao, M, Nishii, T, Sakai, T, Yabuta, K, Yoshikawa, H, Sugano, N 
114) Sterilizability evaluation of strain gauges for the use in an intraoperative environment 
Niggemeyer M, Ulrich N, Heger S, Radermacher K, Mokwa W 
115) Innovative graphical user interface for 6-DOF navigation tasks 
Coigny F, Ühlinger R, Schkommodau E 
116) Diagnostic radiograph based 3D bone reconstruction and pose estimation framework 
Gamage P, Xie SQ 
Session XVIII – Imaging & Tracking 
Chairmen:   Eric Stindel and Neil Glossop 
 10:50 Clinical evaluation of a fluoroscopy based aiming device (Surgix) – first clinical results 
Kraus MD, Schöll H, Riepl C, Bischoff M, Gebhard F 
 10:57 Femoral and tibial torsions evaluation from a fast 3D reconstruction method using biplanar X-rays 
Chaibi Y, De Guise JA, Cresson T, Nizard R, Skalli W 
 11:04 Influence of optical tracking markers on localization accuracy 
Linke S, Elfring R, Buschmann C, Radermacher K 
 11:11 Initial cadaveric and clinical results of an accelerometer based pinless navigation system for the tibial 
resection in TKR 
Levi G, Citak M, Scuderi GR, Suero EM, Mayman DJ, Kang MN 
 11:18 DISCUSSION 
Session IXX – Spine, Part 2 – New Technologies 
Chairmen:   Teija Lund and Moshe Shoham 
 11:30 A surgical performance comparison of an uncertainty visualization method with application to pedicle screw 
insertion 
Simpson AL, Vasarheyli EM, Borschneck DP, Ellis RE, Ma B, Stewart AJ 
 11:37 Construction of a statistical shape model of lumbar vertebrae and its application in reconstructing a 3D 
model from a single lateral fluoroscopic image 
Zheng G, Nolte LP, Ferguson SJ 
 11:44 Improvement of posterior wedge osteotomy technique is correlated with an optimal saggital planning 
program. Peri-operative O-arm and navigation allow controlling the peri-operative correction 
Le Huec JC, Aunoble S, Hauger O, Challali M, Bourghli A 
 11:51 Navigated percutaneous lumbosacral fusion: a feasibility study using 3D surgical simulation 
Yu W, Bünger CE 
 11:58 DISCUSSION 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年08月02日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
橫向探測下不規則形狀之乳癌腫瘤力學模型研究與輔助診斷儀器製作
顏炳郎
98 -2221-E -002 -199 - 生物力學
手持式腫瘤診斷輔助系統及應用於該系統之物體嵌入物硬度偵測方法
ACCESSORY SYSTEM FOR ULTRASONIC EQUIPMENT AND INSPECTION METHOD
APPLICABLE TO THE ACCESSORY SYSTEM
國立臺灣大學 顏炳郎,陳達人,葉坤土
超音波影像進行乳癌診斷，判別腫瘤良惡性常有模糊地帶，需要進一步確認則
通常進行具侵入式的穿刺病理檢查，但臨床結果顯示偽陽性穿刺有偏高比例，
為了減少上述有偏高的偽陽性侵入式的穿刺，近年來有結合彈性影像
(Elastography)作為輔助超音波影像診斷的趨勢，但彈性影像為高單價的功能
模組，以RF信號計算組織之應變量產生，各家儀器之間不能共用，本發明與上
述技術差異，在於採用外家附件設備的型式，適用各類超音波儀器，只要將超
音波探頭固定於本裝置，將探頭以一特定深度劃過待測腫瘤，本系統即可透過
相關感測器量測的信號，配合內建之力學模型，直接進行腫瘤硬度比與移動性
的估測，並提供腫瘤良惡性的診斷結果。因此與彈性影像比較，從使用上的便
利，系統的相容性，以及購置成本上各方面，均具有市場優勢。
Using tactile features, developed a simulated physician palpation of
breast cancer diagnosis equipment, to overcome the shortage of human
action caused by factors such as signal stability. And the hardness
of the tumor to develop biomechanical models to predict benign and
malignant breast tumors.
To achieve accurate prediction of benign and malignant breast tumors,
thereby providing physicians an important basis for the diagnosis of
breast cancer.
醫療器材製造業
乳房腫瘤良惡性判別
乳癌為女性重大死因之一，降低乳癌對女性的生命威脅仰賴及早發現與正確診斷，乳
癌診斷儀器的靈敏度與專一性需要不斷提昇，因此市場需求大。傳統超音波儀器透過
搭配本發明，可提昇儀器在乳癌診斷上的靈敏度與專一性，加上本產品可搭配任何廠
牌超音波設備，並且本發明屬低成本之附件設備，市場潛力大。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
