enhance resource utilization in macrocells, voice 
calls may be allowed to overflow to the 
associated macrocell if they cannot find 
sufficient channels in the associated microcell 
[4]. However, excessive overflow may lead to 
QoS degradation of video calls in the upper layer. 
Therefore, overflowed voice calls have to go 
back to the lower layer whenever there are 
enough channels available in the associated 
microcell, i.e., takeback [8]. It is also noted that 
generally forceful termination of an active call is 
less desirable than the blocking of a new call. 
Thus, handoff calls are usually given priority 
over new calls. 
To summarize, we consider hierarchical 
multi- service cellular networks for ITS based on 
CDMA supporting soft handoff. Both voice and 
video calls are supported in the considered 
system. Handoff calls are given priority over 
new calls. Three models are compared: no 
overflows, overflow without takeback, and 
overflow with takeback. An analytical method is 
derived to calculate the performance measures of 
interest. 
 
三、結果與討論 
 
      3.1 System Model 
The system studied covers a one- 
dimensional service area, where the mobile users 
can only move in one direction or the other. 
There are two classes of users: class-1 (voice) 
and class-2 (video). It is assumed that voice calls 
have shorter average call holding time, whereas 
video calls have longer average call holding time. 
To accommodate mobile users with different call 
holding times, a two-tier cellular network is 
proposed to implement the ITS., where each 
macrocell in the upper layer overlays N 
microcells in the lower layer. It is assumed that 
there are ( )MC ( ( )mC ) codes or channels in each 
macocell (microcell) It is noted that each call 
needs to be supported by one channel. 
To enhance the seamless communication, 
soft handoff scheme is adopted, instead of hard 
handoff. Specifically, in each of microcells and 
macrocells, there are two regions that overlap 
with corresponding neighbor cells, which are 
referred to as soft handoff regions (SHR). The 
non-overlapping region is referred to as normal 
region (NR). The ratio of the area of one SHR to 
the whole area of a cell is assumed to be f , and 
that of the area of NR to the whole area of a cell 
is 1 2 f− . One call in NR can connect to at 
most one base station (BS), normally the closest 
BS, whereas one call in SHR can connect to at 
most two BSs, the serving BS and the target BS. 
Throughout this work, all of the parameters 
related to the microcells (macrocells) are 
represented with superscript m (M).  
To provide almost equal forced termination 
probability and reduce the number of handoff 
attempts, voice calls are assigned to and served 
by the associated microcell and video calls by 
the associated macrocell. For further improving 
the Grade of Service (GoS) of voice calls, the 
voice calls that cannot obtain one free channel 
from the associated microcell can overflow to 
the upper layer and try to obtain the required 
channel from the associated macrocell. To avoid 
excessive overflow traffic and thus degradation 
of video calls’ GoS, the overflowed calls are 
regulated with the takeback process as described 
below. 
With soft handoff, when a mobile station 
(MS) moves into SHR from NR, the MS will 
request the required resource from the target cell, 
while maintaining connected to the current cell 
until it moves out of the SHR into the NR of the 
target cell. Furthermore, we assume that when 
any voice call arrives at ( )mSHR  due to handoff 
or call initiation, it must obtain one free channel 
from each of the serving cell and the target cell; 
otherwise it should release the channel obtained 
from the microcell and tries to overflow to 
macorcell. Similar policy applies to video calls. 
In order to prioritize handoff calls over new calls, 
we also limit the accessible channels of the new 
calls by handoff guard channel mechanism.  
 
3.2   Traffic Model 
New call arrivals at a microcell (macrocell) 
are assumed to be Poison with average arrival 
rate 1λ for voice calls ( 2λ  for video calls). 
Handoff call arrivals for both voice and video 
calls are assumed to be Poisson. Overflow and 
takeback call arrivals for voice calls, if exist, are 
also assumed to be Poisson. The moving 
