中文摘要
自從S. Tiwari提出以陣列奈米晶取代傳統的多晶矽(poly-Si)做為快閃
記憶體(Flash)中的電荷捕捉層，此一製程方式可以有效降低電力耗損、提高
操作速度並且改善元件的疲勞特性(endurance)。但是這些優點都是來自於穿
隧氧化層(tunneling oxide)厚度的降低，一旦穿隧氧化層的厚度降低，元件
中的漏電流便會大幅提高，因此元件中的儲存電荷便會以很快的速度流失，進
而降低元件的記憶儲存時間(retention)。
在本計劃中，我們為了提高操作速度並且同時保有長效的記憶儲存時間，
我們採用高介電(high-k)材料取代二氧化矽作為控制氧化層(control
oxide)，它可以使我們所施加的偏壓有效地落在穿隧氧化層，因此可以在不改
變穿隧氧化層厚度的情況下，有效地提高元件的操作速度。
關鍵字:高介電材料、控制氧化層
(2) High quality of ultra thin high-k gate oxides can be obtained at low deposition
temperature.
In this study, Au nanocrystals were selected due to its high work function, easy to
fabricate, low process temperature and chemical stability. The electrical characteristics
of MOS capacitors having a layer of Au nanocrystals embedded in SiO2/Al2O3 stack with
Al2O3 deposited by ALD as the gate oxide were investigated.
Experiment
A sandwich structure containing a thin tunnel oxide layer of SiO2, an ultrathin Au layer,
and a gate oxide layer of Al2O3 was prepared on Si substrate. Prior to the deposition, all
the substrates were cleaned by standard RCA process and the native oxide was removed
by diluted hydrofluoric acid. After that, back-side ion implantation of the silicon wafer was
carried out to form the ohmic contact. The dry oxidation process to form a ~4nm thick
thermal SiO2 layer as the
tunnel oxide was conducted at 900 ℃ in pure oxygen ambient on (100) p-type (5~10
Ω-cm) Si wafers. A Au layer of ~2nm thick was subsequently deposited at room
temperature by rf-magnetron sputtering with a low power to reduce the bombardment of
the tunnel oxide. After the sputtering process, a 24nm thick Al2O3 layer was coated by
ALD at 300 C and a chamber pressure of 1torr, using Trimethylaluminum (TMA) and
H2O as precursors12. The specimens were then annealed at 600 ℃ for 3 min in N2
ambient, which resulted in transforming the ultrathin Au layer into well-separated Au
nanocrystals embedded in Al2O3/SiO2 matrix.5, 9
The MOS capacitors were then fabricated by depositing Pt top electrode,    (200μm 
in diameter) on the specimens with hard mask process. For a comparison, a reference
sample made with Al2O3/SiO2 stack of 28 nm (4 nm SiO2 + 24 nm Al2O3) was also
prepared using the same process. The MOS structure was examined by high resolution
transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) to observe the morphology and distribution
of nanocrystals. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) was also employed to
characterize the chemical state of Au nanocrystals. The high-frequency
counterclockwise which result from the substrate injection of charges into the
nanocrystals.13,14 In contrast, the reference sample without Au nanocrystals shows a
negligible C-V hysteresis loop which demonstrates that the influence from oxide trap
charges or mobile ions is negligible. Therefore, the charge storage effect is mainly come
from the Au nanocrystals embedded in the MOS capacitor. However, there is a clear
positive Vfb shift appearing in the C-V curve of the reference sample, indicating the
presence of negative fixed charges in the MOS structure. These negative fixed charges
are often formed at the interface between Al2O3 and SiO2.15, 16 However, the center of
hysteresis loops of specimens containing Au nanocrystals located close to the zero gate
voltage suggesting that the negative fixed charges at the interface are compensated by
positive charges stored in the Au nanocrystals.
As far as we know, the observed flat-band voltage shift of ΔVfb=9V is the largest
memory window under an operating voltage of 6V for all kinds of nanocrystal memories
having been reported. Compared with our previous study9, the memory window is almost
double by using the ALD-Al2O3 to replace SiO2 as the control oxide. It clearly
demonstrates the advantage of using high-k dielectrics in the nanocrystal floating gate
memories.
Figure 4 shows the erase characteristic of the MOS capacitor under different stressing
voltage with different pulse width. Initially, the sample was stressed by a pulse of 15V for
16ms to reach the programmed state. Then, the C-V measurement was performed after
stressing with different pulse width to identify the shift of flat-band voltage against erase
time, i.e. the pulse width. In Fig. 4, it is clearly seen that as the stressing voltage or the
erase time increases, the flat-band voltage shift increases. However, in spite of the erase
time lower than 1ms, a significant flat-band voltage shift still can be clearly obtained and it
is large enough to define the programmed and erased states. In contrast, the erase time
for conventional electrically erasable programmable read-only memories (EEPROMs) is
in the range of 100ms~1s under operating voltage up to 20V17 which is larger than the
erase voltage in this study. Thus, we can enhance the erase speed and reduce power
consumption drastically by adopting ALD-Al2O3 to replace SiO2 as control oxide due to a
a function of duration time is shown in Fig. 6 and it is not satisfactory. From Fig. 5(b), we
can see that the discharging current without applied voltage is about 1.5x10-9 A-cm-2.
According to theoretical derivation, the flat-band voltage shift is approximately given by20
ΔVfb=Qnc/Ccontrol (1)
Qnc=I＊t=J＊A＊t (2)
where Qnc is the total charges trapped in the nanocrystals, Ccontrol (=55pF) is the
capacitance of the control oxide, J is the discharging current density, A is the size of
electrode. Combine (1) and (2), we can estimate that the velocity of flat-band voltage shift
at zero voltage is about
ΔVfb/t= J＊A/ Ccontrol=0.009V/sec
Initially, the discharging current should be larger due to a large amount of charges
trapped in the Au nanocrystals and it would decrease with time. The charge-retention
characteristic can be improved by several methods, such as (1) increasing the thickness
of tunnel oxide, (2) using asymmetric SiO2/HfO2 tunnel barrier to replace the common
tunnel oxide and (3) introducing multilayers of nanocrystals in the insulating layer21.
However, these methods will also decrease the erase speed due to the trade off between
charge-retention and write/erase speed. Further study is thus required to get a better
balance between charge-retention and write/erase speed.
Conclusion
In conclusion, the metal-oxide-semiconductor memory structure was successfully
fabricated from agglomeration of an ultrathin Au film embedded in the ALD-Al2O3/SiO2
matrix as floating gate. A giant memory window was observed from the hysteresis in
high-frequency C-V relation and a high erase speed at a low operating voltage was also
achieved. The storage of either electrons or holes in the Au nanocrystals resulting from
positive or negative gate voltage, respectively, was demonstrated by I-V relation.
However, the charge-retention characteristics of the devices studied were not found to be
satisfactory.
17.P. Cappeleti, C. Gola, P. Olivo and E. Zanoni, “The industry standard Flash memory 
cel,” in Flash Memories, Ed. Norwell, MA: Kluwer (1999)
18.T. C. Chang, S. T. Yan, P. T. Liu, C.W. Chen, S. H. Lin and S. M. Sze, Electrochem.
Solid-State Lett. 7, G17(2004)
19.J. C. Wang, S. H. Chiao, C. L. Lee, T. F. Lei, Y. M. Lin, M. F. Wang, S. C. Chen, C. H.
Yu, and M. S. Liang, J. Appl. Phys. 92, 3936(2002)
20.C. Lee, J Meteer, V. Narayanan, and E. C. Kan, J. Electro. Mat. 34, 1(2005)
21.R. Ohba, N. Sugiyama, K. Uchida, J. Koga, and A. Toriumi, IEDM Tech. Dig.,
313(2000).
(a)
(b)
Fig.1 Chen-Chan Wang et al.
Fig.3 Chen-Chan Wang et al.
Fig.5 Chen-Chan Wang et al.
出席 MRS2007(春季) 國際學術會議心得報告
學生王振展此次參加2006 在美國舊金山舉辦為期五天的材料研討會，我
所與的session 為 nonvolatile memory,由於此session的主題與我本身的研
究主題是相同的，所以我可以很容易地從中獲得許許多多的啟發，不管是不同
的半導體製程技術 、電性量測系統又或者是最新穎的物理概念都再再地使我
大開眼界。其中有幾場的報告為國際大廠以及先進研究單位所發表的之最新製
程整合應用之技術，內容十分的精彩而且很有深度，讓我對於往後實驗的想法
與整合有莫大的幫助。會議中每天傍晚舉行poster會議，內容包含了材料相關
領域的研究成果，我詳讀了其中幾個我所感興趣的實驗，並且在現場與作者進
行學術上的討論，以增進自己對於往後學術研究的不同想法。此外我貼海報的
時間是在會議第二天傍晚的poster時段，與世界各地的年輕先進人員研究討論
我的實驗，藉由這樣的討論仍讓我獲益良多。這次出國參加會議的經驗，讓我
對於實驗上的想法與創新有了很重大的突破，回國後便可以開始著手進行之前
遇到瓶頸的實驗。總而言之，這次的會議讓我得到很多的收穫，與其自己像無
頭蒼蠅般做實驗，還不如出國參加會議看看別人在做些什麼東西，對自己在實
驗上的幫助是很大的，也避免一些實驗上無謂的浪費，下次如果有機會的話，
還是非常願意出國去參加會議，以增進自己的視野。
以上為學生王振展的心得報告
Introduction
In recent years, metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) structures embedded with
semiconductor or metal nanocrystals as floating gate are widely studied due to their
superior physical properties for application in nonvolatile memory devices of next
generation.1-9 This new nonvolatile-memory structure enables low-voltage programming
at a faster speed by scaling down the tunnel oxide thickness of floating gate.2,4 In addition,
the most important issue is charge retention, since the tunnel oxide between nanocrystals
and substrate is very thin. As the thickness of tunnel oxide is less than 4nm, the direct
tunneling will arise and charge retention must be very bad10. This is the trade off between
charge retention and operating voltage depend on tunnel oxide. However, Wang et al.
has demonstrated that the electrical properties of BST thin film can be improved by Au
doping in the grains11. In this study, we employ BST thin film as control oxide in MOS
structure with embedded Au nanocrystals and its charge retention characteristics were
studied.
Experiment
In this work, thermal oxidation and rf magnetron sputtering, sequentially, were used
to fabricate MOS capacitors with a layer of Au nanocrystals embedded within a
SiO2/(Ba0.5Sr0.5)TiO3 (BST) stack. Prior to the deposition, all the substrates were cleaned
with standard RCA recipes and the native oxide was removed by diluted hydrofluoric acid.
After that, back-side ion implantation of the silicon wafer was carried out to form the
ohmic contact. The thermal oxidation process to form a 2.5nm thick thermal SiO2 layer as
tunnel oxide was conducted at 900 ℃ in pure oxygen ambient on (100) p-type (5~10
Ω-cm) Si wafers. A Au layer of ~4nm thickness and a BST thin film of 24nm were
deposited subsequently at room temperature by rf-magnetron sputtering with a low power
to reduce the bombardment of the tunnel oxide. The specimens were then annealed at
500 ℃ for 5 min in N2 ambient, which resulted in transforming the ultrathin Au layer into
well-separated Au nanocrystals embedded in the BST/SiO2 matrix.5,9
suppressed at high applied voltage due to charge storage in the Au nanocrystals.
The chemical state of Au in the BST/SiO2 matrix was then examined by XPS with a
resolution of ~0.3eV in the measured binding energy as shown in Fig. 2. It exhibits that
the nanocrystals contain a large amount of Au-BST solid solution in the surrounding of
pure Au metal. The binding energy of metallic Au are 84.01eV for Au-4f7/2 and 87.69eV for
Au-4f5/2, respectively, which are very close to the standard value. In addition, the other
two peaks along with the peaks of metallic Au with binding energy of 83.19eV and
86.86eV must be resulting from Au-BST solid solution. It demonstrates that majority of Au
would dissolve into the grains of BST in the forming process of Au nanocrystals during
the post annealing and it brought about the internal lattice stress. Besides the peaks
resulted from Au, the other peaks of Ba-4d5/2 and Ba-4d3/2 also revealed that Au-BST
solid solution was formed in this work.
Figure3 shows the typical cross-sectional TEM image of Au nanoceystals embedded in
the gate dielectric. It can be clearly observed that the nanocrystals are self-assembled at
the interface between thermal oxide (SiO2) and sputtered oxide (BST). Note that the Au
nanocrystals are mostly spherical with a narrow size distribution in the range of 4~5 nm
and well-isolated in the BST/SiO2 matrix. In addition, the local high resolution TEM image
is shown in the inset of the Fig. 3. It reveals that BST has partial crystalline and the edge
of Au nanocrystal has dissolved into the lattice. This is the direct evidence to support that
we has discussed above, as Au dissolve into the grains of BST can induce additional
internal lattice stress which can improve electrical properties.
The typical high-frequency (1 MHz) capacitance-voltage (C-V) relations measured from
the MOS capacitors with and without embedded Au nanocrystals are shown in Fig. 4. The
C-V relations were obtained with gate voltage swept from accumulation to inversion and
reverse at room temperature. The reference sample shows a conventional MOS high
frequency C-V characteristic with a negligible C-V hysteresis and it demonstrates that
there are no oxide traps or mobile ions existing in the insulator layer. In contrast, the MOS
structure embedded with Au nanocrystals exhibits conspicuous hystersis loop in the C-V
relations accompanied with a large flat-band voltage shift, ΔVfb, indicating the significant
References
1. S. Tiwari, F. Rana, H. Hanafi, A. Hartstein, E. F. Crabbe, and K. Chan, Appl. Phys. Lett.
68, 1377(1996).
2. H. I. Hanafi, S. Tiwari, and I. Khan, IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 43, 1553(1996).
3. S. Tiwari, F. Rana, K. Chan, L. Shi, and H. Hanafi, Appl. Phys. Lett. 69,
1232(1996).
4. Y. C. King, T. J. King and C. M. Hu, IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 48, 696(2001).
5. Z. Liu, C Lee, V. Narayanan, G. Pei, and E. C. Kan, IEEE Trans. Electron
Devices 49, 1606(2002).
6. Z. Liu, C Lee, V. Narayanan, G. Pei, and E. C. Kan, IEEE Trans. Electron
Devices 49, 1614(2002).
7. J. Y. Tseng, C. W. Cheng, S. Y. Wang, T. B. Wu, K. Y. Hsieh and R. Liu, Appl. Phys.
Lett. 85, 2595(2004).
8. H. Sliva, M. K. Kim, U. Avci, A. Kumar, and S. Tiwari, MRS
BULLETIN/NOVEMBER 2004, p. 845.
9. C. C. Wang, J. Y. Tseng, T. B. Wu, L. J. Wu, C. S. Liang and J. M. Wu,
J. Appl. Phys. 99, 026102(2006)
10. Y. Taur and T. H. Ning“Fundamentals of Modern VLSI Devices”P.96.
11. H. W. Wang, S. W. Nien and K. C. Lee, Appl. Phys. Lett. 84, 2874(2004).
12. T. C. Chang, S. T. Yan, P. T. Liu, C.W. Chen, S. H. Lin and S. M. Sze,
Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 7, G17(2004)
13. D. N. Kouvatsos, V. L. Sougleridis, and A. G. Nassiopoulou, Appl. Phys.
Lett., 82,397(2003).
14. L. W. Teo, W. K. Choi, W. K. Chim, V. Ho, C. M. Moey, M. S. Tay, C. L.
Heng, Y. Lei, D. A. Antoniadis, and E. A. Fitzgerald, Appl. Phys. Lett. 81,
3639(2002).
Fig.1 Chen-Chan Wang et al.
Fig.3 Chen-Chan Wang et al.
Fig.5 Chen-Chan Wang et al.
以上內容為學生王振展於MRS會議上所發表之論文
法，不管是贊成或反對。然而不一定來討論的都是同一個研究領域，我通常能
從我的基礎理論跟他們講起，那是一種莫名的成就感！
出國參加國際研討會不僅是一種學術交流，我們同學和學長也到各地遊
覽，形成另一種文化交流。難得有這樣的東西方互動，學到的東西真的不只是
實驗論文紙本而已，心靈的提升與文化的體認更是一種另類的收穫！
以上為學生張櫻靖的心得報告
Introduction
Resistance switching in simple binary transition metal oxide thin films, such as NiO
and TiO2, attracts great interest for a possible application in nonvolatile memory devices
due to the required low switching current compared to phase change memories [1-9]. The
current-voltage (I - V) characteristics of metal –oxide - metal (MOM) structures with
these materials exhibited a resistance ratio as large as ＞103 between a high -
resistance state (OFF state) and a low - resistance state (ON state) without a total phase
change [10]. Other oxide materials also found to have resistance switching effects such
as perovskite materials, Cr-doped SrTi(Zr)O3 [11], Pr0.7Ca0.3MnO3 [12], PbZr0.52Ti0.48O3
[13], and chalcogenide materials [14]. Perovskite oxides were reported to show memory
switching by electric pulses of reasonably small voltage and current. However, these
ternary or perovskite oxides are not easily applicable to normal semiconductor
manufacturing processes because their crystal structure and stoichiometry are hardly
controllable.
In this article, the unique TiO2 films for applications of resistance random access
memory (RRAM) were prepared on Pt bottom electrode. The crystal structural of TiO2
films are investigated by grazing angle x - ray diffraction (GAXRD) and the I - V behavior
were measured by computer-interfaced HP4155C (Sweep mode). Our results suggest
that the single phase, usually the anatase phase (101) - 25.4° and (211) - 54.5° at low
temperature [7,15], and oxygen deficient of the TiO2 films exhibit good stability of
resistance switching properties.
Experiment
TiO2 films were deposited of about 100nm on a Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si substrate by MOCVD
method using Ti[C4H9O]4 as precursor at a temperature of 335℃. The as-grown TiO2 film
was crystallized with polycrystalline anatase structure. RTA under an O2 atmosphere for
3min at 400℃, 500℃, 600℃ were performed. The cross - sectional thickness was
investigated by using field –emission scanning electron microscope (FESEM) and the
crystal structure were examed by grazing angle x - ray diffraction (GAXRD). The Pt top
Ti2O3 and TiO2 with different ratio, which means an oxygen deficient state. The Ti4+ / Ti3+
ratio of the as-deposited TiO2 film is about 1.2 and increases to a value over 2 as the
films subject to an O2 annealing. Since less Ti4+ / Ti3+ ratio means more Ti2O3 coexists
with TiO2 in the film, compare to the results of Fig. 3 and Fig. 4, oxygen deficient may
assist the film to show a more stable resistance switching behavior and lower set / reset
voltages. This result also supports the modified filament theory in which the conducting
paths (filaments) are composed of oxygen vacancies.
Conclusion
The resistance switching characteristics of TiO2 films grown by MOCVD were
demonstrated. According to our results, single phase and oxygen deficient of the film
could give a lower set / reset voltages and assist a more stable resistance switching
cycles.
Figure captions
Fig. 1 The XRD patterns of the as-deposited and O2 annealed TiO2 films.
Fig. 2 I-V curves of (a) as-deposited (b) 400℃ annealed (c) 500 annealed (d) 600℃ ℃
annealed TiO2 films.
