Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
parameters, we proposed our preliminary architecture, writing strategy, and data 
transmission system designs. 
Low-energy (less than 5 keV) electron beam lithography (LEEBL) is a 
promising patterning solution for the sub-22-nm half-pitch node due to its high 
resolution, low substrate damage, and increased resist sensitivities. In high-throughput 
LEEBL, which may be presented by multiple e-beam micro-column structure, line 
edge roughness (LER) caused by shot noise becomes a critical issue for both device 
patterning and device performance variability. To characterize these effects, stochastic 
MOSFET gate patterning with LEEBL is constructed by overlapping energy 
distributions from an in-house electron scattering Monte Carlo simulation program 
with various writing parameters. Parameter optimization can provide initial guidelines 
and specifications for design and operation of multiple electron beam direct-write 
systems. As the manufacture part, the misalignment problem of electron lens is a 
significant effect to the focusing property of electron lens. However, bond-then-drill 
method based on MEMS technology for fabricating electron lens can prevent this 
problem. A manufacturability analysis simulation method of MEMS-based electron 
lens with bond-then-drill method includes the effects of taper shapes structure and 
deflection variation is proposed by using Lorentz and MATLAB®. 
Keywords: Low Energy Electron Beam Lithography (LEEBL), Line Edge Roughness 
(LER), Monte Carlo method, optimization, MEMS. 
中文摘要 
微影技術近半個世紀循著莫爾定律快速的發展，成像半間距已達 65 奈米，
其曝光波長為 193 奈米。在運用浸潤式微影技術之後，193 奈米微影技術可用於
45 奈米。根據 2006 年國際半導體技術藍圖(ITRS)的資料，在 2012 年所需要的
半間距長會縮小到 32 奈米。現今使用的傳統光學微影技術對於 32 奈米製程尚未
有解決方案。 
無光罩微影術因能克服尺寸的問題及可大幅減少光罩製成時間和成本而在
近年來受到重視，但要將此技術應用到實際半導體生產尚有許多難題需要克服。
電子束直接寫入技術即為一種極具潛力的無光罩技術，它的優勢在於高解析度及
能深度聚焦。在３２奈米製程的無光罩微影術中，資料傳輸的需求到達每秒數十
兆位元，這部分無疑的是其中一項艱難的挑戰，我們需要提出一種專門處理的資
料傳輸系統。 
我們對主要的結構型態逐項進行分析，包括電子束能量、電子源數目、腔體
數目、和電子光學系統。在比較不同規格的優缺點後，我們提出初步的系統架構、
寫入策略和資料傳輸系統設計。 
低能量電子束微顯影技術(< 5 keV)是一種在 22-nm 解析度底下之有前景的
II 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
Research Method and Result 
1. Introduction 
The first electron beam (e-beam) lithographic system, which is based on the 
scanning electron microscope (SEM), is developed in late 1960s. Similar to optical 
lithography, the electrons instead of photons expose the electron-sensitive resist to 
define patterns on it. Due to extremely small wavelength of electron, electron beam 
lithography can achieve sub-100nm resolution easily. Similar to optical lithographic 
system, the projection e-beam system need some predefined mask to exposure the 
image. The advantage of this system is high throughput but the image is always 
distorted by the presence large number of electrons form the large exposure shape 
area. The variable shaped beam (VSB), with which e-beam exposes the wafer in 
variable small area rectangular or triangular shapes. It is implemented by 
combination of two movable square apertures. This has long been used for mask 
fabrication. These techniques do not satisfy for sub-20nm line width resolution and 
the direct write lithographic system is developed. The direct write technique is to 
focus the electrons into a fine spot, and then direct write the pattern like drawing 
pictures. Fig. 1 shows the whole schematic of EBDW system, including source tip 
and focus lens etc. The low-energy electron beam lithography (LEEBL) is a 
promising patterning solution for the 22-nm half-pitch node and beyond due to its 
high resolution, low substrate damage, and increased resist sensitivities. In this 
technique, the fine spot size can be decrease the resolution to sub-10 nm scale but 
the throughput is extremely low as a trade-off. 
2. Monte-Carlo simulation of EBDW 
Monte Carlo method is a general numerical technique based on pseudo-random 
numbers and repeated computation. It is often used for simulating physics 
phenomena. 
- 1 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
2.2. Point spread function comparison with CASINO 
For realization of successful application of EBL, a through understanding of 
electron scattering in solids as well as precise data for spatial distribution of the 
absorbed electron energy density in the resist are needed. In general case, an 
analytical function such as a double Gaussian is used to describe the scattering effect 
which also can be called proximity effect. 
100 101
0
5
10
15x 10
-3
r (nm)
no
rm
al
iz
ed
 e
ne
rg
y
Comparison of normalized energy distribution
 
 
CASINO
NTUEE
 
Fig. 2 Comparison of NTUEE simulator and CASINO in 1 keV 
  f(r) = k[exp(-r2/α2)/α2+ηexp(-r2/β2)/β2]/[π(1+η)]         (1) 
where the first term with the range α describes the energy intensity distribution 
due to the forward-scattering electrons in the resist, the second term β with the range 
describes that due to the backscattering electrons, and r is the distance from the 
center of the incident beam. The parameter η is the ratio of the backscattering to the 
forward-scattering component. Fig. 2 shows the fitting result of CASINO and 
in-house simulator with normalized energy in 1 keV. 
In this work, an in-house Monte-Carlo electron-scattering simulator is 
developed under MATLAB environment. By comparing the point spread function 
with the in-house Monte Carlo tool and a publicly available Monte Carlo program 
CASINO; the accurate of tool can be quantified. The reference data is generated 
from CASINO by simulating 50000 electron trajectories. The selected incident 
energy for comparison is 1 keV because LEEBL is proposed. 
3. Manufacturability Analysis of MEMS-Based EOS 
In the MEMS-based electron optics system design, ease of fabrication and 
feasibility of the system are taken into consideration. For realization of electron 
beam direct write lithography with high resolution, three basic components are 
essential: electron sources, beam limiting apertures and focusing lenses. 
- 3 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
The optimization process includes initial parameter select, choose source type, 
initial condition setup, and cost function. First, find the boundaries of the parameters 
and select a point in the feasible region such as (spot size, pixel pitch, dosage) = (5, 
2, 245). Second, define the simulation type of the electron source as real source but 
not the virtual source. Third, choose the initial condition as follows. 
Xlens = [2000 μm 152.382 μm 378.7 μm 2213.8 V]         (2) 
  Xpattern = [5 nm 2nm 245 μC/cm2]                             (3) 
Finally, a suitable cost function will be selected. 
However, the performance of writing in some pitch such 45 nm half pitch may 
not fit in this cost function because the aberration may have some benefits for some 
pattern. In our case, the pattern is select as line that’s line-width is 15 nm and the 
cost function and constraints are selected as below: 
  Min NMSE(Resist_image, Drawn_layout)                      (4) 
Subject to 
LER ≤ ITRS_value, 2 mm ≤ Lw ≤ 4 mm, and 
1000 μm ≤ S2 ≤ 2000 μm 
10 μm ≤ T2 ≤ 250 μm 
200 μm ≤ Dlens ≤ 500 μm 
V2 ≤ 4000 V 
- 5 - 
Final Report of NSC Project for Junior Researcher 
- 7 - 
6. Acknowledgments 
The authors thank Hsin-Hung Pan, and Uni-Via technology Inc., Taiwan for 
their technical discussion and suggestions. This research was partially sponsored by 
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited. 
7. Reference 
[1] T. H. P. Chang, D. P. Kern, and L. P. Muray, "Miniature 
Electron-Optical Columns", IEEE Trans. On Electron Devices, Vol. 38, 
No. 10, pp. 2284-2288, Oct. 1991 
[2] E. Kratschmer, H. S. Kim, M. G. R. Thomson, K. Y. Lee, S. A. Rishton, 
M. L. Yu, and T. H. P. Chang, “Sub-40 nm Resolution 1 keV Scanning 
Tunneling Microscope Field-Emission Microcolumn”, J. Vac. Sci. 
Technol. B, Vol. 12, No. 6, pp. 3503-3507, Nov./Dec. 1994 
[3] E. Kratschmer, H. S. Kim, M. G. R. Thomson, K. Y. Lee, S. A. Rishton, 
M. L. Yu, S. Zolgharnain, B. W. Hussey, and T. H. P. Chang, 
“Experimental evaluation of a 20x20 mm footprint microcoumn”, J. Vac. 
Sci. Technol. B, Vol. 14, No.6, pp. 3792-3796, Nov./Dec. 1996 
[4] K. Y. Lee, S. A. Rishton, and T. H. P. Chang, “High aspect ratio aligned 
multilayer microstructure fabrication”, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B, Vol. 12, 
No.6, pp. 3425-3430, Nov./Dec. 1994 
[5] J. Y. Park, J. D. Lera, M. A. Yakshin, S. S. Choi, Y. Lee, K. J. Chun, J. D. 
Lee, D. Jeon, and Young Kuk, "Fabrication of multiple microcolumn 
array combined with field emission array", J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B, Vol. 
15(6), pp. 2749-2753, Nov/Dec 1997 
 A New Parametric Point Spread Function 
Calibration Method for Improving Accuracy of 
Post-lithography Patterning Prediction in 23-nm 
Half-Pitch Low-Voltage Electron Beam Direct-
Write Lithography 
Running title: New Parametric Point Spread Function Calibration Method 
Running Authors: Liu, Ng, and Tsai 
Chun-Hung Liu, Hoi-Tou Ng, and Kuen-Yu Tsai 
Electronic mail: d94921003@ntu.edu.tw 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 10617 Taiwan 
(R.O.C) 
Electron accelerating voltage as low as 5 keV is being considered for high-throughput 
electron-beam–direct-write (EBDW) lithography for the 23-nm half-pitch node and 
beyond. Accurate point spread function (PSF) is essential to pattering prediction and 
proximity effect correction, and it requires an effective data fitting method to generate 
parametric PSF. Although electron scattering is intensively studied, it is found that 
 semiconductor devices. A lower electron accelerating voltage has been considered in 
high-throughput EBDW for the 23-nm half-pitch (H.P.) node and beyond because of 
increased resists sensitivities, reduced substrate damage, and heating effect. 1 
In this way, the proximity effect correction (PEC) becomes the most critical issue 
for obtaining high critical dimension (CD) accuracy at this low voltage. The electron 
beam proximity effects are commonly corrected by dose and shape modulation, as it is 
done today by many methods.
For model form of a point spread function (PSF) describing the radially absorbed 
energy distribution in a resist layer, generally a double Gaussian form of PSF is used.
2-4 
 7 
Recently, various forms of improvement are suggested to properly fit the absorbed 
energy distribution either generated from Monte Carlo (MC) simulation or experiment in 
resist when double Gaussian form is insufficient, such as, replacing the backscattered 
term with an exponential function9,11,12 and adding one9-11 or more Gaussian terms.8,10,13,14 
These improve the mathematical fitting to the absorbed energy distribution in the 
transition region between the forward and the backward scattering in various situations. 
Aya et al.15 propose an improved PSF to express the absorbed energy distribution for fine 
patterns or that for heavy metals such as X-ray absorbers. All in all, these various forms 
 Therefore in conventional PSF calibration method, the PEC is insufficient when 
continue reducing feature sizes and beam size. The first of these situations is the case 
where 45-nm node and below are used. Using more accurate PSF provides better results 
in terms of CD linearity, isolated-dense bias, and line end shortening (LES).4 
In this paper, the fitting limitations of conventional PSF calibration method are 
investigated first and then a new PSF calibration method, which consists of a new PSF 
and a new MF, is proposed to solve the fitting limitations and accurately describe the 
absorbed energy distribution. The number of terms in the new PSF is only three, thus the 
extraction of parameters by exposure experiment could avoid the difficulty for further 
verification to come. In addition to that, the new MF is better than the conventional MFs 
for obtaining a fit whether in the transition region between the forward and the backward 
scattering or in the near-origin region. The strategy of the new method is: (1) Observing 
the trend of absorbed energy distribution and describing it by a suitable parametric PSF 
form. (2) Selecting a suitable MF to determine parameters of PSF. This new method 
shows more precise fitting results as compared with conventional methods which use 
established PSF and MF improperly to describe the absorbed energy distribution. To 
express the significance of the new method, Fig. 1. illustrates the absorbed energy 
distributions in different kinds of accelerating voltages where the same conditions such as 
 For the objects of increasing the throughput, reducing substrate damage, and 
heating effect, in this paper the new method is applied at a lower electron accelerating 
voltage, 5 keV.  
In the first section, we describe the principle of conventional and new PSF 
calibration methods. Then, in the second section, we investigate the fitting limitations of 
the conventional methods, especially in both transition-region between the forward and 
the backward scattering (15-70 nm) and near-origin region (less than 15 nm). To solve 
the fitting limitations, the new PSF calibration method which consists of a new PSF and a 
new merit function (MF) is proposed and it provides a more appropriate goodness of fit. 
Finally, in the third section, we demonstrate what effects the use of new method will have 
on patterning prediction which includes accuracy and sensitivity parts. The effects are 
characterized by simulating one-dimensional grating layouts with various pitches, a 
representative two-dimensional six-transistor-SRAM layout. A dense-line case is used to 
analyze the effect on patterning sensitivity in the 23-nm H.P. node. 
II. PRINCIPLE OF CONVENTIONAL AND NEW PSF 
CALIBRATION METHODS  
A. Simulation conditions of PSF calibration methods 
 A proximity effect correction algorithm requires an accurate knowledge of the 
absorbed energy distribution deposited in the electron resist layer due to a point or pixel 
exposure. The resulting electron distribution as a function is called the PSF or proximity 
effect function. The PSF is commonly modeled by several Gaussian forms. Most popular 
is to write this expression as Eq.(1)
( ) ( )
2 2
2 2 2 2
1 1 exp exp
1
r rf r η
π η α α β β
     = − + −    +      
 7 
 (1)  
The first term is represented using the α parameter to define the forward scattering 
region, while the backward scattering region is represented by the β  parameter. The η  
parameter of Eq. (1) is the ratio representing the relative intensities of the forward and 
backward scattering electrons.  
Several researchers have indicated that the two-Gaussian form often is insufficient 
for expressing the absorbed energy distribution.10 More complex PSF are needed for 
certain types of substrate, multi-layer substrates and for very small feature sizes. 
Improved functions have been proposed as Eq. (2), three-Gaussian form  
( ) ( )
2 2 2
2 2 2 2 2 2
1 1 exp exp exp
1
r r rf r η η
π η η α α β β γ γ
 ′      = − + − + −      ′+ +        
 (2)  
 All these parameters of PSFs are generally determined by using curve fitting via 
MF to the Monte Carlo absorbed energy distribution. 
C. Merit functions for determining the parameters of PSFs  
An appropriate MF is chosen to determine the agreement between the MC data 
and the PSF. The parameters of the PSF are adjusted to achieve a minimum in the MF, 
giving the best fit parameters for that MF. Two conventional and one proposed MFs are 
used to determine the parameters of PSFs. They would be minimized by using the 
MATLAB routine and its executed functions: fminsearch or lsqnonlin. The first 
conventional MF, which be called ENERGY MF,10 minimizes the following Eq. (5) to 
determine the PSF parameters: 
( )
1
ENERGY MF -
N
i i
i
E F r r
=
= ∆∑  (5)  
iE is the Monte Carlo absorbed energy distribution at point i  , iF  is the adopted PSF at 
point i . The ENERGY MF is an attempt to give a better fit to the data at high energy 
values and larger r  values. It may indicate a better goodness of fit near to forward 
scattering region. The second conventional merit function is called LOG MF,10  
minimizes the following Eq. (6) to determine the PSF parameters: 
 III. PSF FITTING RESULTS 
A. Fitting limitations of conventional PSF calibration methods  
The goal of PSF calibration methods, which consists of a PSF and a MF, is to fit 
MC absorbed energy distribution as accurate as possible, especially in the transition-
region between the forward and the backward scattering (between 15~70 nm) and in 
near-origin region (less than 15 nm). It is shown that the fitting accuracy, examined via 
visual goodness of fit and the performance index (PI), 16 is insufficient when using the 
conventional PSFs with ENERGY MF in the transition-region.  Fig. 2(a) (an overall look) 
and (b) (a more detailed look for the transition-region) show a comparison of fitting 
results between the MC absorbed energy distribution (denoted by “Target PSF”) and 
conventional PSFs using ENERGY MF. Those conventional PSFs are three-Gaussian 
(denoted by “3G PSF”), two-Gaussian plus an exponential (denoted by “2G+1E PSF”), 
and the most popular two-Gaussian (denoted by “2G PSF”) forms. From the observation 
in  Fig. 2 (a), these three PSFs all fit well in the radius-region over than 70 nm. However 
in  Fig. 2 (b), a notable discrepancy is seen between MC absorbed energy distribution and 
the fitting results by using conventional methods, where the radius of transition-region is 
between 15 nm and 70 nm. An obvious lower curve to MC simulation in the region is 
 To improve the fitting limitations where conventional PSF calibration methods 
are faced, the new PSF calibration method is proposed which is consisted of a PSF and a 
MF. First we use the new proposed PSF, one-Gaussian plus two exponential functions, to 
describe the trend of MC absorbed energy distribution more precise in this case. Second 
is adopting the new MF, LOGNSSE MF, to determine the parameters of PSF more exact. 
In this section, we can see the improvement obtained with the new method as compared 
with the previous results determined from conventional methods.  
Fig. 4 (a) and (b) show the evolution of fitting results in transition-region between 
the forward and the backward scattering (between 15~70 nm) obtained from the new PSF 
calibration method. As described previously, conventional PSFs using conventional 
ENERGY MF, there is a loss of goodness of fit in transition-region. Using new PSF with 
new MF allow a better fitting accuracy tended to the transition-region. This leads to an 
improvement of fitting accuracy to MC absorbed energy distribution in the transition-
region and this may result mainly in a better e-beam direct write proximity effects 
correction. Fig. 5 (a) and (b) show the evolution of goodness of fit in near-origin region 
(less than 15 nm) by using the new PSF calibration method. With the new method, the 
fitting bias (or error) is around 5 times instead of about 10 times of the best result of 
  The new PSF calibration method produces improvements in the fitness of both 
transition-region and near-origin region to MC absorbed energy distribution. However, it 
has not yet been demonstrated what effects the use of the new method will have on 
patterning prediction. In the next section, we give two kinds of examinations including 
patterning accuracy and patterning sensitivity to observe the effects of the new method on 
patterning prediction.  
IV. EFFECT OF NEW PSF CALIBRATION METHOD ON 
PATTERNING PREDICTION  
A. Simulation process and conditions on patterning prediction 
As will be seen in previous section, the fitting result by using new PSF calibration 
method provides a more accurate description for the MC absorbed energy distribution. 
This may also results in a more accurate patterning prediction, which means the predicted 
pattern using the new method will more closely match the target pattern calculating from 
MC distribution. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of using the new method under a 
given set of exposure conditions, two parts of investigations are discussed and illustrated 
as Fig. 6. In the first part - “accuracy examination”, test patterns are created to examine 
the accuracy of patterning prediction when using the new method. Four patterns here are 
 shot pitch, the distance between shots when filling the shapes) is fixed at 2 nm. The 
reason these raster scan parameters determined as above is used to satisfy ITRS-
acceptable level for 23-nm H.P. node in CD control with line edge roughness (LER) and 
line width roughness (LWR).18 From ITRS 2008 Update, 21 the gate CD control (3 sigma) 
in 23-nm H.P. node is 1.5 nm. This means that in order to satisfy ITRS roadmap in 23-nm 
H.P. node, CD variations should be limited within  ± 8.33% (1.5 nm over 18 nm). The 
PMMA resist sensitivity at 5keV is determined at 27.6 μC/cm2.19 Calculating operations 
are performed with MATLAB software (R2009a version) from MathWorks supply the 1-
nm resolution in our simulation.  
In general e-beam simulation on development program, a threshold level, at 
which resist CD is defined, is set at about the half maximum of exposure intensity.20 
However, the threshold level defined in this way is not a realistic assumption. It should 
be defined as a fixed number and includes the meaning of units (e.g. μC/cm2
Fig. 6
) to represent 
the real resist sensitivity in practical e-beam exposure process as the part of development 
program in . The target CD is obtained by measuring the distance between two 
points which cross the exposure intensity and the threshold Ith Fig. 7 as illustrated in . For 
the CD selection in the whole line length of the following examinations, it is determined 
from the average CD values of line length within the 90% upper line end and 10% lower 
 the new method that can be seen is the shift toward the MC simulation in respect to the 
conventional method. It means the new method performs a more accurate result of 
patterning prediction on CD linearity, and new method improves about 1.9 times overall 
compares with the best result of conventional methods which is 2G+1E PSF with 
ENERGY MF. The smallest design CD 18 nm for 23-nm H.P. node, the improvement is 
about 1.4 times when using the new method. 
2. Isolated line with various lengths improvements  
The effect of new PSF calibration method on patterning prediction can also be 
provided from using various lengths of single-line patterns as Fig. 9. Therefore, various 
line lengths which are selected based on an arithmetic progression of target CD from 72 
to 2304 nm are designed, and the effect of the measured CD in respect of the line length 
changing will be checked. The graph of Fig. 9 illustrates the variation of the measured 
CD as a function of various lengths for an 18-nm isolated line when different PSFs are 
used. From ITRS 2008 Update,21 the CD variations should be limited within  ± 8.33%  as 
the boundary region of two black-dotted lines in Fig. 9. The red-color curve and blue-
color curve are the result of adopting the new method and the best result of the 
conventional methods respectively in the range of measured CDs. The new method gives 
 new method and the conventional method are about 3.89 % and 9.15 % respectively. The 
improvement of using new method is about 2.4 times on 28-nm spacing, but for the 
overall spacing, new method gives 2.8 times improvement. The new method can be 
applied to the whole range of line spacing and pitched from dense to isolated line, which 
satisfies the request of ITRS in gate CD control.  
4. Application to real circuits  
The new PSF calibration method is now used for a real circuits drawn layout on 
patterning prediction in 23-nm H.P. node. We refer and shrink down the top-down SEM 
image (as Fig. 11) of the 0.1 μm  6T-SRAM cell after STI fill and gate-first metal gate 
patterning22 ,and the CD of the drawn layout is fixed at 18 nm. Fig. 12 illustrates a 
simulation result of applying MC simulation, new method, and conventional method for 
the 6T-SRAM patterning prediction. To compare the performance between MC 
simulation and those two methods, a normalized mean square error (NMSE) is used on 
two-dimensional 6T-SRAM layout. The NMSE is calculated based on normalizing the 
error between the ideal and the printed images. 23 From the calculated results, the NMSE 
by using new method and conventional method are 6.89 % and 8.10 % respectively, and 
the improvement by using new method is about 1.2 times as compared with conventional 
 direction, electron charging effect, stage vibration, and etc. To investigate this section, 
three kinds of raster scan parameters, dosage, beam size, and beam step size, are varied 
respectively in order to discuss the performance of using new method on CD deviations. 
The graphs of Fig. 14 to Fig. 16 show the results of analyses of patterning 
sensitivity in an 18 nm CD of quintuple-line patterns as the same as Fig. 10. Fig. 14 
illustrates a comparison of using the MC simulation, new method, and conventional 
method in CD deviations when dosages are varied.  The deviations are caused by the 
varying dosages from 36 μC/cm2 to 50 μC/cm2, and the optimal dosage of MC simulation 
for 18 nm CD is 42.5 μC/cm2 
Fig. 15
which provides a zero CD deviation. Compared with the 
best result of conventional methods, overall the new method demonstrates a closer curve 
to the MC simulation and provides about 1.31 times improvement of CD deviations in 
this varying dosage case. Similarly the varying beam size and beam step size are showed 
in  and Fig. 16 respectively. The zero CD deviations are also determined form MC 
simulation where beam size is 10 nm and beam step size is 2 nm. The improvements of 
using new method are about 1.36 times and 1.35 times in CD deviations for varying beam 
size and beam step size. Nevertheless, according to the results of Fig. 14 to Fig. 16, it 
must be highlighted that the case of varying beam step size has the most significant 
influence on the CD deviation than varying dosage and beam size. It can be observed that 
 new method is proposed which describes MC absorbed energy distribution more 
appropriate. The results show that this new method provides an improvement of fitting 
accuracy in both of the region, and it provides approximately 2.7 times and 3.8 times 
fitting improvements in the transition-region and the near-origin region respectively.  
To examine the effects of using new method on patterning prediction, two kinds 
of examinations including patterning accuracy and patterning sensitivity are analyzed. In 
patterning accuracy, the new method provides about 1.9 times, 2.0 times, 2.8 times, and 
2.0 times improvements overall in isolated line with various line widths, isolated line 
with various lengths, dense line with various spacing and pitch, and application to 6T-
SRAM respectively. In patterning sensitivity, the new method provides about 1.31 times, 
1.36 times, and 1.35 times improvements in varying dosage, beam size, and beam step 
size respectively.  We also find the case of varying beam step size has the most 
significant influence on the CD deviation than the others. It means that controlling of 
beam step size must be considered for a top priority to avoid unnecessary CD deviation. 
The new method provides not only precise fitting results but accurate results on 
patterning prediction and patterning sensitivity in various cases as well. However, an 
issue, what effects of the new method will have in proximity effect correction with a 
shape or dose modulation, still remains to be addressed.  
 product manufacturing,” J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS MOEMS. 6(3), 033001-1-
033001-7 (2007). 
5 D. Dominique, A. R. Couture, D. Joly, X. Tastet, V. Aimez and R. Gauvin,” 
CASINO V2.42—A Fast and Easy-to-use Modeling Tool for Scanning Electron 
Microscopy and Microanalysis Users,” J. Scanning 29, 92-101 (2007). 
6 MATLAB software (R2009a version) of the MathWorks Inc., see 
http://www.mathworks.com/.  
7 T. H. P. Chang, “Proximity effect in electron-beam lithography,” J. Vac. Sci. 
Technol. 12, 1271-1275 (1975). 
8 J. M. Pavkovich, "Proximity Effect Correction Calculations by the Integral Equation 
Approximate Solution Method", J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 4 (1), 159-163 (1986) 
9 S. J. Wind, M. G. Rosenfield, G. Pepper, W. W. Molzen, and P. D. Gerber, 
“Proximity correction for electron beam lithography using a three-Gaussian model 
of the electron energy distribution,” J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B. 7(6), 1507-1512 (1989) 
10 M. G. Rosenfield, S. J. Wind, W. W. Molzen, and P. D. Gerber, “Determination of 
proximity effect correction parameters for 0.1μm electron-beam lithography,” J. 
Microelectronic Engineering. 11, 617-623 (1990). 
 16 C. H. Liu, H. T. Ng, C. W. Ng, K. Y. Tsai, S. J. Lin, and J. H. Chen,  “A novel 
curve-fitting procedure for determining proximity effect parameters in electron 
beam lithography,” Lithography Asia -- Proc. SPIE. 7140, 71401I-1-71401I-10 
(2008). 
17 S. C. Chapra, and R. Canale, Numerical Methods for Engineers: With Software and 
Programming Applications, McGraw-Hill Science, (2002) 
18 H. T. Ng, C. H, Liu, and K. Y. Tsai, “Determination of Gaussian-beam and raster 
scan parameters in electron-beam–direct-write lithography considering device 
patterning and performance variability,” J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS MOEMS., tbd 
(2009).  
19 M. A. McCord, T. H. Newman, “Low voltage, high resolution studies of electron 
beam resist exposure and proximity effect,” J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B. 10 (6), 3083-
3087 (1992). 
20 F. Koba, H. Yamashita, and H. Arimoto, “Highly Accurate Proximity Effect 
Correction for 100 kV Electron Projection Lithography,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 44(7B), 
5590–5594 (2005). 
 Figure caption list 
Fig. 1. The absorbed energy distributions in different kinds of accelerating voltages 
Fig. 2. Limitation of conventional PSF calibration methods in transition-region (between 
15~70 nm) in a 40-nm-thick PMMA resist layer on a silicon wafer at 5keV . 
(a) An overall fitting results of the MC absorbed energy distribution (denoted by “Target 
PSF”) and conventional PSFs with ENERGY MF (denoted by “3G”, “2G+1E”, and 
“2G”) . 
(b) A more detailed look for the transition-region.  
Fig. 3. Limitation of conventional PSF calibration methods in near-origin region (less 
than 15 nm) in a 40-nm-thick PMMA resist layer on a silicon wafer at 5keV . 
(a) An overall fitting results of the MC absorbed energy distribution (denoted by “Target 
PSF”) and conventional PSFs with LOG MF (denoted by “3G”, “2G+1E”, and “2G”) . 
(b) A more detailed look for the near-origin region. 
Fig. 4. Solutions to improve limitations of conventional methods in transition-region 
(between 15~70 nm) in a 40-nm-thick PMMA resist layer on a silicon wafer at 5keV. 
 Fig. 11. Top-down SEM image of the 0.1 μm  6T-SRAM cell after STI fill and gate-first 
metal gate patterning to 23-nm H.P. node, using e-beam direct write lithography 22
Fig. 12
. 
. Simulation result for the 6T-SRAM patterning prediction. 
Fig. 13. CDs prediction results on the three different transistor types of 6T-SRAM 
(including Drive, Access, and Load) 
Fig. 14. A comparison of using the MC simulation, new method, and conventional 
method in CD deviations when dosages are varied. 
Fig. 15. A comparison of using the MC simulation, new method, and conventional 
method in CD deviations when beam sizes are varied. 
Fig. 16. A comparison of using the MC simulation, new method, and conventional 
method in CD deviations when beam step sizes are varied. 
  
Fig. 1. 
  
Fig. 3. 
Fitting limitations of 
conventional PSF calibration 
methods (using LOG MF) 
  
Fig. 5. 
 
Fitting accuracy  
improvements 
 Target CD (MC Simulation)
Measured CD (Conventional method)
Measured CD (New method)
Target PSF (MC Simulation)
PSF (New method)
PSF (Conventional method)
Ith
Exposure 
Intensity
Resist Sensitivity
 
Fig. 7. 
 
 CD = 18 18 18 18 (nm)
Single line L = 72 ~ 2304 (nm)LL L
 
 
Fig. 9. 
Overall improvement: 2.0 times  
  
Fig. 11. 22 
  
Fig. 13. 
Overall improvement: 2.0 times  
 Beam size = 2 ~ 18 (nm)
CD1 CD2 CD3 CDn 
Resist 
sensitivity
CD dev. = CD1~n – 18 (nm)
 
Fig. 15. 
Overall improvement: 1.8 times  
