 2
中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
針對產品短小輕薄的趨勢、網路及可攜式電子通訊產品的無線化，以及面對植入人體之生醫產
品微型化等之需求，如何延長上述產品之電源壽命已是現今科技產業面臨的一大課題。解決此類問
題之方法主要有兩類：第一類是從開發新電池產品使得電池本身之壽命延長著手。雖然人類繼續研
發更高能量密度的電池，但終究而言，電池的可用能量畢竟是有限的，這必將影響到產品系統的使
用壽命及效益。另一類解決之道是不斷對電池補充電力以延長其壽命，也就是朝向更具挑戰性的完
全自我供電元件挺進，而本計畫則是從此類方式著手。對於電池充電的能量來源有許多種，目前最
熱門的是太陽能發電，然而太陽能發電侷限在有適當光線之環境下，且效能及經濟效益有待評估，
因此本計畫從環境中其他能源著手，例如環境當中常存在之振動能。振動能可從人體、機器、運輸
工具及建築體等的震動或聲波中獲得，因此它是一種廣泛隨處可得的能源，而且常是被視為浪費的
能源，然而藉由本計劃的技術可以將這些取之不盡且廢物利用之能源，轉換成電池充電之最佳能
源。若能妥善地利用這些隨處可見的能源，對於提高我國在綠色能源開發領域之國際競爭力。以振
動能作為發電之能量來源，其能量擷取的原理主要分為三大類：第一類為電容原理，第二類為壓電
原理，第三類為電磁原理。由於電容原理在尺度微型化下有較佳之效益趨勢，而且其結構製造簡易，
製程及材料與目前半導體技術最相容，以和電子產品系統整合的角度來看，電容原理將是最佳的選
擇。此外，針對目前各樣產品之短小輕薄化，發電機之研發勢必也要朝微型化發展，以能與產品做
最適之整合，因此本計畫將藉由微機電技術開發出以振動能作為發電之電容式微型發電機。 
本計劃開發之能量擷取結構(Energy harvester)之可變電容器(variable capacitor)分成兩種：一種為
共平面式(in-plane)梳狀電容結構(comb-like capacitor)；另一種為共平面式平板狀電容結構(plate-like 
capacitor)。在懸吊結構的設計上，本計畫特別以雙穩定(bi-stable)結構為懸吊結構，除了能增加電
容結構間距位移(gap displacement)或面積重疊(area overlap)之變化量，以致提高電容值之變化，更
可提高微型發電機在非共振(non-resonant)操作下之可行性。雙穩定懸吊結構之設計又分成平行樑型
(centrally-clamped parallel beam type)及撓性機構型(compliant-mechanism type)。本計畫首要針對此
微型發電機之雙穩定(bi-stable)懸吊結構設計及機-電耦合(electro-mechanical couple)效應，作理論的
解析及使用ANSYS有限元素方法進行模擬分析。在製程上，利用簡單的面型加工技術完成結構的
製作，另外也嘗試使用SOI晶片深蝕刻加工製造，以增加高深寬比的結構。經由實驗量測，初步證
實本計畫所設計製作之結構做為非共振能量截取的可行性。由於以往截取振動能的結構若非在共振
下，電容結構間距位移或面積重疊)之變化量非常小(亦即電容變化量極小)，導致電能轉換量也小，
故利用雙穏定結構之大變形位移可改善此現象，更何況要透過外界振動源導引能量擷取結構產生共
振狀態較不易。此外，若將本計畫所設計的能量擷取結構做成陣列(array)，設計可移動電極板
(moving electrode)不同的質量(proof mass)，則可收集在不同振動(或加速度)範圍作用下之能量，如
此也可讓發電晶片每次在較均勻大小範圍的振動能下產生電能。設計可行的能量擷取電路，將微發
電機所輸出的微小能源轉換成實際可用電源是未來的工作。 
 
關鍵字：微發電晶片，振動能，能量擷取，可變電容，雙穩定結構，矽微加工 
 
 4
報告內容 
前言及文獻探討 
In the recent years there has been a growing and strong interest in the field of power generation 
systems(alternative power sources), which can provide power for sensing, computing, communication 
and locomotion of a wide range of scientific and commercial platforms including medical implants, 
embedded sensors inside the human body or buildings with no physical connection to the outside world, 
autonomous sensor networks for sensor readout and wireless data transmission, sensors and actuators in 
a micro system used in inaccessible areas, mobile robotic systems, and so on. Furthermore, rapid 
advances in integrated circuit(IC) technology and microelectromechanical systems(MEMS) in the past 
years, both make the systems continue to  shrink, but less energy is available on-board, so  
miniaturized  and higher energy-density power sources are highly recognized for extending the 
operational lifetime of the systems. Traditionally, batteries are used to supply such devices energy, 
especially in portable and  wireless devices(e.g., notebooks, personal digital assistants, mobile phones, 
portable digital music  players, etc.), but batteries offer only a finite amount of energy and the 
chemicals contained in the batteries may be toxic. An alternative to battery is to make use of ambient 
energy that is available surrounding a system. That is to develop autonomous self-powered generator is 
extremely important to enable battery-powered devices to live longer. 
The main aspects of the power generator system include energy harvesting, energy extraction and 
transmission, and energy storage. Energy harvesting is defined as the conversion of ambient energy into 
usable electrical energy. Possible sources of ambient energy include mechanical vibration energy, light  
energy, fluidic energy, and thermal energy. Other sources of energy rather than naturally occurring 
from ambient energy fields may include RF powered tags, inductively powered smart cards and 
non-invasive pacemaker battery recharging. For light energy harvesting, photovoltaic cells, as example, 
convert incident light into electrical energy, which is a mature IC-compatible technology that offers 
higher power output levels, when compared with the other energy-harvesting mechanisms. 
Nevertheless, its power output is strongly dependent on environmental conditions, in other words, 
varying light intensity and highly dependant on the application and the exposure to which the device is 
subjected. Besides, photovoltaic cells are at lower power efficiencies in micro-scale than their 
macro-scale counterparts, since the exposed internal surface area of the device for the energy required 
to harvest is reduced. Concerning thermal energy harvesting, thermopiles, as example, convert thermal 
gradients into electrical energy through the Seebeck (thermoelectric) effect. The generated power is 
proportional to the temperature differential and the Seebeck coefficient of the thermoelectric materials. 
Large thermal gradients are essential to produce practical power levels. Nevertheless, temperature 
differences are low in a micro-system, consequently producing low voltage and power levels. Power 
generators scavenging ambient energy based on mechanical vibration is another common method of 
energy harvesting and has been reported abundantly [8-20]. Energy harvesting from vibrations is based 
on the movement and oscillation of a "spring-mounted" proof mass relative to its support frame. 
 6
composed of variable capacitors, a proof mass and suspended structures. In such devices inertial forces 
produced by the proof mass are used to do work against the electric field of the variable capacitors, 
thereby mechanical energy can be converted to electrical potential energy by a suitable charging circuit 
and energy storage. The variable capacitor of the energy harvester is divided into two kinds of 
architectures: one is comb-like capacitor, and the other is face to face plate-like capacitor. Both are moving 
in plane. In this project the special design is suspended structures made of bi-stable structures. Using 
bi-stable structure is to amplify the capacitance of the variable capacitors and to enhance the 
implementation of the energy harvesting in non-resonant condition. Commonly when subjected to 
acceleration, the gap variation of the capacitors is small in non-resonant state, thus the amount of 
harvesting energy is very low. However, large amplitude motion of the bi-stable structures can improve the 
phenomenon. Two architectures of the bi-stable structure are proposed, one is centrally-clamped parallel 
beam type, and the other is compliant-mechanism type. Design, analysis, and fabrication of the harvesters 
are described in this project. Analytical approach and finite element method (ANSYS) for the 
electro-mechanical analysis are employed. The devices are fabricated by silicon-based micromachining 
technique that is compatible with IC processes. SOI wafer with DRIE processes is included to increase 
the aspect ratio of the structures. Furthermore, other issues including optimization of the mechanical 
microstructures will be investigated. 
 
研究方法 
The construction of the power generator system include harvester for vibration energy harvesting, 
power extraction and transmission (electric charging), and energy storage. The project is focused on 
proposing the concept structure for the vibration energy harvester and simple harvester circuit is 
discussed. 
 
1. Structure Design of the Energy Harvester 
Because of the energy harvesting strongly depends on the value of the variable capacitance. For 
large capacitance change and system stability, bi-stable suspended structures are chosen.  Bi-stable 
structures are mechanisms that are stable in two positions. These structures gain their bi-stable behavior 
from the energy stored in the flexible segments which deflect to allow mechanism motion. This means 
that when they are actuated, they "snap" from one equilibrium position to another. Such bi-stable 
mechanisms, are particularly well-suited for two-position actuation applications with provide a 
pre-specified amount of large force and/or displacement. 
Three different types of energy harvesters are designed. Figure 1-1 shows the construction of the 
first type harvester based on the standard in-plane motion comb-like capacitors with proof 
mass(moving electrode) and a compliant-mechanism type bi-stable structure. When the proof mass 
moves in the acceleration direction, there will be a net change in the capacitance by comb fingers with 
changing overlap area. The bi-stable structure is designed for the functions of suspending the proof 
masses (moving electrodes) and amplifying the displacement of the moving electrodes with specified 
two stable positions in a non-resonant mode, or acting as vibration spring in a resonant mode. The 
bi-stable structure can prevent the structure from low stability when over displacement, which can 
cause the moving structure to twist and its electrodes to contact with the fixed electrodes. Furthermore, 
 8
 
Fig. 1-3 A harvester with centrally-clamped parallel beam type bi-stable structure and comb-like 
electrodes 
 
1.1 Modeling and analysis of the bi-stable structures 
1.1.1 Compliant-mechanism type bi-stable structures 
Figure 1.4 shows the design parameters of a compliant-mechanism type bi-stable structure. 
Parameters include rigid arm length (RAL), arm width (AW ), rigid arm width (RAW ), compliant 
arm length 1 (AL1), compliant arm length 2 (AL2), the angle of arm length 1 (T H E T A), the angle 
of the rigid arm length (PH I), the angle of arm length 2 (ALPH A), the out-of-plane thickness (T ), 
the shuttle width (SW ), and the shuttle length (SL).  The bi-stable relies on the deflection of the 
compliant arms to move to its alternate stable position.  Y DISP is the actuated shuttle displacement.  
The Young’s Modulus (E X ), Poisson’s ratio (PR), and the thickness (T) is considered constant for 
entire structure.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1-4 Parameter definitions of the compliant-mechanism type bi-stable structure 
 
The compliant-mechanism type bi-stable structure Finite Element model was constructed by ANSYS 
(Fig. 1.5), and meshed with plane82 elements. The elements can tolerate large deflection, large strain, 
and stress stiffening. Displacement was applied to each node on the face of the proof mass, and the 
reaction force was retrieved as a sum of the nodes on that face. Figure 1.6 shows the two stable positions 
of the bi-stable structure by ANSYS analysis. 
 10
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
0.1
0.2
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
Displacement (um)
Re
ac
tio
n F
ro
ce
 (m
N)
 
Fig. 1-7 the force-displacement relationship 
 
According to the Fig. 1-8, when deflection of the bi-stable structure is over the 2nd stable position, the 
reaction force is increasing, thus the structure will return to 2nd stable position. From Fig. 1-9 to Fig. 1-11, 
it is found that the reaction forces and the 2nd stable positions can be changed by adjusting the design 
parameters, such as the angle of T H E T A, PH I and ALPH A. Therefore, the optimized structure can be 
obtained by proper parameter design. Figure 1-12 shows the first mode shape of the vibration of the 
compliant-mechanism type bi-stable structure. It is just like the snap mode of the bi-stable. In this way the 
bi-stable behavior of the snap-deflection mode can be preserved. 
 
-4.5
-4
-3.5
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65
Displacement (um)
Re
ac
tio
n F
ro
ce
 (m
N)
 
Fig. 1.8 deflection over the 2nd stable position of the bi-stable structure 
 
2.453333 -0.37593 
35.72667 0.124465 
Stable position 1 
Stable position 2 Unstable 
equilibrium
Fmax 1-2 
Fmin2-1 
 12
 
Fig. 1-12 the first mode shape of the vibration of the compliant-mechanism type bi-stable structure 
 
1.1.2 Centrally-clamped parallel beams type bi-stable structures  
Jin Qiu [51] presented a monolithic mechanically-bistable structure that does not rely on residual 
stress for its bi-stability. The bi-stable structure comprises two centrally-clamped parallel beams that have 
a curved shape but no residual stress. The schematic diagram of centrally-clamped parallel-beam 
mechanism is shown in Fig. 1-13. It comprises two initially-cosine-shaped beams clamped together at the 
center. At the initial position, there is no stress anywhere inside the parallel beams. When the structure is 
pushed down at the center, it will first deflect and then snap to the second stable position as shown in Fig. 
1-14[51]. The central clamp prevents rotation of the center of the beams], and thus avoids the occurrence 
of the second mode. Still, the third mode will develop during the deflection, but it will not lower the 
energy barrier as much. In this way the bi-stable behavior of the first deflection mode can be preserved. 
Nonlinear finite element analysis (FEA) by ANSYS of the beams is used to predict and design the 
bi-stable behavior. To analyze the bistable mechanism, It has thickness t, width w, span L , Young’s 
modulus E and moment of inertial I = wt3/12. Let w(x) denotes the distance of the beam from the straight 
line connecting its two boundaries. Assume that the as-fabricated shape of the beam is 
S(x) = d[l - cos(2πx/L)]/2        (1.1-1) 
As the lateral force f is applied to the center of the beam at x = 1/2, the center of the beam deflects byδ. 
The total length of the beam S changes too, giving rise to the axial force p. During this deflection, the 
beam maintains the clamped-clamped boundary conditions 
w(0) = w(1) = 0 ; w’(0) = W(1) = 0      (1.1-2) 
 
 
Fig. 1-13 Schematic diagram of the centrally-clamped parallel-beam bistable structure and its symbols 
 
 14
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
Displacement (um)
Re
ac
tio
n F
ro
ce
 (m
N)
 
Fig. 1-17 the force-displacement relationship of centrally-clamped parallel beams type bi-structure 
 
1.2. Static analysis of the capacitors 
There are two possible extremes of operation for converting kinetic energy into electrical energy 
through the use of electrostatic forces. The first is referred to as constant charge operation and the other 
extreme of operation is constant voltage operation. Both electrostatic converters need an initial amount of 
electrical potential energy in order to provide an electric field which can be used to generate additional 
electric energy. Thus, the capacitor must be pre-charged at its maximum capacitance point (i.e., minimum 
plate separation) before energy can be harvested. For a given initial charge on a capacitor, a change in its 
capacitance causes a variation in the voltage across it through the relation “Q= CV”, where Q is the initial 
charge, C is the capacitance and V the voltage across the capacitor. The equation for the energy stored in 
the capacitor is 
E=1/2QV=1/2CV2                (2-1) 
With the charge fixed Q, the energy output per vibration cycle is expressed by eq. (2-2) : 
E=1/2Q(V2-V1) =1/2Q2(1/C2-1/C1) =1/2(C2 –C22 /C1)V22    (2-2) 
The main drawback to this operation, however, is that the magnitude of the increasing voltage surpasses 
the breakdown limits of most modern CMOS technologies. 
An alternative to fixing the charge of the capacitor is to fix the voltage and allow the charge to flow 
in and out of it, but this would require two voltage sources. The variable capacitor behaves like a current 
source because the change in capacitance causes variations in charge, in spite of no changes in voltage. 
With the Voltage fixed V, the energy output per vibration cycle is expressed by eq. (2-3) 
        E=1/2 (Qmax-Qmin)V=1/2V2(Cmax-Cmin)    (2-3) 
where Cmax is the maximum capacitance of the capacitor, Cmin its minimum capacitance. If we compare 
equation 2.2 to equation 2.3 we see that the energy available from the charge constrained case is less than 
that available from the voltage constrained case by a factor V2/V. 
For a parallel plate capacitor, its capacitance (C) can be expressed as a function of overlapping plate 
area (A), plate separation (d) and permittivity of plate separation, as shown in eq. (2-4).  
          (2-4)  
where ε 0 is the permittivity of free space and is a constant equal to 8.85 x 10-12 F/m,, ε r is dielectric 
constant. It is found that to increase the overlapping plate area or to decrease plate separation would 
increase the capacitance. However, changing the plate separation or overlapping area to obtain maximum 
 16
1.3. Dynamic model of the vibration harvester 
Schematic models of power generators are shown in Fig. 1-21(a) and (b), where (a) is for lateral 
motion (with a variable overlap and constant separation) of the variable capacitor, and (b) is for 
face-to-face motion (with a variable separation and constant overlap). Each model is composed of a 
mass-spring-damper system with a variable capacitor for electrostatic conversion of the mechanical 
energy into electrical power. The vibration of the external case causes a displacement of the internal mass 
and a capacitance change of the variable capacitor; thus current flow in the external circuit and generates 
power in the load. y(t) is the displacement of the inertial frame (the substrate in this case) and z(t) is the 
displacement of the proof mass with respect to the inertial frame (or the deflection of the spring).  bm is 
mechanical damping terms that represent Couette flow damping or squeeze film damping depending on 
the design. In all the generator architectures, acceleration of the case by the external system creates a 
inertial force f on the proof mass. The product of this force and the relative displacement (f·z) represents 
work done on the damper and suspension, and the integral of f ·dz over a complete cycle represents the 
converted energy per cycle. In the resonant cases, the work can be absorbed by the damping mechanism 
or stored in the spring, from where it can be released to the damper at different part of the motion cycle. 
In a non-resonant device, however, work is only done on the damper, so to maximize the output power 
this damper force should be maximized through the whole of the relative motion. In addition, the 
damping force must be less than m¨y in order for the mass to break away from the case. Therefore, the 
maximum energy can be obtained if the mass moves during the peak of acceleration of the source motion. 
If this is done, the optimal damping force will be approximately constant at just below m¨ymax. 
The power generator is an electromechanical system, including a purely electrical part, a purely 
mechanical part, and a coupling mechanism linking the two parts. An electrostatic coupling field   
between the electrodes of the device facilitates energy exchange between the two parts of the power 
generator. Supposing there is no loss in the coupling field, the energy put into the field by the electrical 
and mechanical source is stored and can be recovered completely due to its conservation. The dynamic 
behavior of the electrostatic power generator in its general form can be described by a set of differential 
state equations [44]. Such a description can be used or the simulation of both linear and nonlinear 
behavior of the system. State equations can be solved either numerically or using a system diagram   
that represents by blocks each part of a mathematical description. 
The differential equation for the motion of the mass, m, relative to the frame is given by Eq. 
(1.3-1), expressed as 
      (1.3-1) 
For most of the designs, both the electrical (be) and mechanical (bm) damping term is non-linear. The 
mechanical damping for the first type of harvester (standard comb-like capacitor) is modeled by 
Couette flow which results in a linear viscous damping term given by Eq. (1.232).  
        (1.3-2)  
The mechanical damping for the other type of harvester (face to face plate like capacitor) is modeled by 
squeeze film damping which results in a nonlinear damping term given by Eq. (1.3-3).  
        (1.3-3) 
The exact expressions for the electrical damping terms are given in [43] in details. 
 18
drop. Diode D1 turns on and D2 is off. Charge flows from the source to Cv at constant voltage.  
 
Fig. 2-2 Harvesting Circuit model for the generators  
 
Both power converter circuit considered here should not significantly leak current during the vibration 
of the moving plate or present a large parasitic capacitance that absorbs charge from the generator during 
the vibration. 
 
3. Structure Fabrication 
In this project, conventional sacrificial-layer surface micromachining techniques are used to the 
structures, as shown in Fig.3-1. Deep Reactive Ion Etch (DRIE) processes with SOI wafer, as shown in 
Fig.3-2, can build high aspect ratio structures with relatively high stiffness in vertical direction but very 
flexible in lateral direction. This will be another approach to fabricate the structure further. 
For conventional sacrificial-layer surface micromachining, the device is fabricated on a 500 μm 
thick, 4-inch p-type wafer. First off, the wafer is deposited with about 2um of dioxide as a sacrificial layer 
(Fig. 3-3(a)). Next, an approximate 2um undoped-polysilicon layer is deposited by LPCVD. In 
lithography process, a positive resist is spin-coated onto the dioxide layer. After spin-coating, the fresh 
resist is soft baked in a 90 °C convection oven for 30 minutes to remove the bulk of its solvent. After 
mask aligning and exposure the wafer is then developed, thus defining the resist pattern. A post-exposure 
hard bake at 110 °C makes the resist mould resistant to attack by the following etching. With the resist 
mould acting as a mask, the polysilicon layer is selectively etched away by dry etching with O2 plasma 
RIE. The resist mould is then stripped away. Therefore, the polysilicon structure is defined. To release 
part of the polysilicon structure for suspension, the sacrificial dioxide is removed by wet etching with 
BOE, but left some oxide as anchors for the fixed structures (Fig. 3-3(d). Finally, an aluminum layer is 
coated with thermal evaporation on the structure for conducting in the electrodes (Fig. 3-3(e)).  
SOI wafers and deep reactive ion etching (DRIE) processes are used to fabricate devices with high 
aspect ratio and therefore large capacitance can be obtained. The basic processing steps are illustrated in 
Fig. 3-4. A P-type <100> SOI wafer with a Si layer of 20.μm, oxide layer of 4.μm, and substrate of 
400.µm is presented (Fig. 3-4 (a)). Spin coating a thick photoresist on the wafer and pattern via 
photolithography (Fig. 3-4 (b)). By using DRIE to anisotropically etch the Si layer by SF6 to the oxide 
layer to have the structure patterns (Fig. 3-4 (c)).  To strip photoresist by oxygen plasma in the RIE 
chamber,r and then to etch the 4μm-thick sacrificial oxide by RIE with CHF3 and SF6 to release the 
movable parts (Fig. 3-4 (d)). Finally, By coating aluminum with thermal evaporation on the structures to 
form the pad contact and electrodes (Fig. 3-4 (e)). 
 20
 
(e) 
Fig. 3-4 Deep Reactive Ion Etch (DRIE) processes with SOI wafer 
 
The overall layout and each structure pattern in mask are shown in Fig. 3-5~3-6. Figure 3-7 shows the 
comb structures fabricated by surface micromachining. Figure 3-8 shows the SEM photographs of the 
compliant mechanism-type bi-stable structure with comb like electrodes on 2nd stable position. 
 
Fig. 3-5 Masks for the lithography processes 
  
Fig. 3-6 Patterns of the bi-stable structures in the mask 
 
    
Fig. 3-7 Photographs of the comb structures 
 
metallisation 
 22
  
Fig. 4-2 Precision LCR Tester 
 
 
Fig. 4-3 MEMS Motion Analyzer 
 
REFERENCES 
1. T. Starner and J.A. Paradiso, “Human Generated Power for Mobile Electronics,” Low-Power 
Electronics Design, C.  Piguet, ed., CRC Press,  2004, chapter 45, pp.1–35. 
2. E. M. Yeatman, “Advances in Power Sources for Wireless Sensor Nodes,” Proc. Int’l Workshop 
Wearable and Implantable Body Sensor Networks, Imperial College, 2004, pp. 20–21; 
www.doc.ic.ac.uk/vip/ bsn_2004/program/index.html. 
3. H. Schmidhuber and C. Hebling, “First paper 1999-01-2564; www2.msstate.du/~stevens/iecec.pdf 
4. S. R. Vetorino et al., Renewable Energy Flashlight, US patent 6,220,719, to Applied Innovative 
Technologies, Inc., Patent and Trademark Office, 2001. 
5. D.  L. Churchill et al., “Strain Energy Harvesting for Wireless Sensor Networks,” Smart Structures 
and Materials 2003: Modeling, Signal Processing, and Control, Proc. SPIE, vol.5005, Int’l Soc.
 Optical Eng.,2003, pp.319–327; www.microstrain.com/white/pdf/strainenergyharvesting.pdf. 
6. P. Glynne-Jones, N.M. White, Self-powered systems, a review of energy sources, Sens. Rev. 21 (2) 
(2000) 91–97. 
7. F.  Discenzo, Parasitically Powered Sensing Device, US Pattent6,304,176 (Oct. 16, 2001). 
8. C. B. Williams, R.B. Yates, Analysis of a micro-electric generator for microsystems, in:  
Proceedings  of  the  8th  International  Conference  on  Solid-State  Sensors  and 
Actuators, Transducers ’95 and Eurosensors IX, vol. 1, 1995, pp. 369–372. 
9. R. Amirtharajah, A.P. Chandrakasan, Self-powered signal processing using vibration-based power 
generation, IEEE J. Solid State Circuits 33 (1998) 687–695. 
10.  W. J. Li, T.C.H. Ho, G.M.H. Chan, P.H.W. Leong, H.Y. Wong, Infrared signal transmission by a 
laser-micromachined vibration-induced power generator, in: Proceedings of the 43rd IEEE Midwest 
Symposium on Circuits and Systems, vol. 1, 2000, pp. 236–239. 
11.  H. Kulahand K. Najafi, “An electromagnetic micro power generator for 
low-frequency environmental vibrations”, MEMS 2004, pp. 237-240, 2004. 
12.  Shearwood C and Yates R B 1997 Electronics Letters 33 1883-1884 
13.  H. Kulah and K. Najafi, "An electromagnetic micro power generator for low-frequency  
environmental vibrations," 17th IEEE International Conference on Micro Eletro Mechanical Systems 
(MEMS), pp. 237-240, 2004. 
14. S. Meninger, J.O. Mur-Miranda, R. Amirtharajah, A.P. Chandrakasan, J.H. Lang, 
 24
40. Jasmina Casals-Terre and Andrei Shkel, Dynamic Analysis Of A Snap-Action Micromechanism  
41. Howell L.L. Compliant mechanisms. Willey, 2001. 
42. Parkinson, M.B., Jensen, B.D., and Roach, G.M.  Optimization-Based Design of a Fully-compliant 
Bistable Micromechanism. Proceedings of the 2000 ASME Design Engineering Technical 
Conferences, 2000. 
43.Shad Roundy, Roshan D’Souza, “Capacitance Based Micro Structures for Converting Vibrational 
Energy to Electric Energy” 
44. S. D. Senturia, “Microsystem design”, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston, 2001. 
45. G. Despesse et al., “High Damping Electrostatic System For Vibration Energy Scavenging,” in Joint 
sOc-EUSAI conference, 2005, pp. 283-286. 
46. Shad Roundy, Paul K. Wright, Jan Rabaey, “A Study of Low Level Vibration as a Power Source for 
Wireless Sensor Nodes,” Computer Communications, vol. 26, pp. 1131-1144, 2003. 
47. Yasser Ammar et al., “Wireless Sensor Network Node with Asynchronous Architecture and Vibration 
Harvesting Micro Power Generator,” in Joing sOc-EUSAI conference, 2005, pp.1-6. 
48.P. D. Mitcheson, T. C. Green, E. M. Yeatman and A. S. Holmes, “Architectures for Vibration-Driven 
Micro-Power Generators”, IEEE/ASME J. MEMS, in press. 
49.C. B. Williams, and R. B. Yates, “Analysis of a Micro-Electric Generator for Microsystems”, 
Transducers ‘95/Eurosensors IX, 1995. pp. 369 – 372. 
50. P.D. Mitcheson., P. Miao, B.H. Stark, E.M. Yeatman, A.S. Holmes, T.C. Green, “MEMS electrostatic 
micro power generator for low frequency operation”, Sensors and Actuators A 115 (2004) 523–529 
51. Jin Qiu, Jeffrey H. Lang, Alexander H. Slocum,  “A Centrally-Clamped Parallel-Beam Bistable 
MEMS Mechanism”, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
52 S. Roundy, P. Wright, and J. Rabaey, Energy Scavenging for Wireless Sensor Networks with Special 
Focus on Vibrations, Kliwer Academic Press, 2003. 
53. S. Meninger, J. O. Mur-Miranda, R. Amirtharajah, A. Chandrakasan, and J. 
Lang, .Vibration-to-Electric Energy Conversion,. in Low Power Electronics and Design, 1999, 
International Symposium on, August 1999, pp. 48.53. 
54. S. Meninger, J. O. Mur-Miranda, R. Amirtharajah, A. P. Chandrakasan, and J. H. 
Lang, .Vibration-to-Electric Energy Conversion,. Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems, IEEE 
Transactions on, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 64.76, February 2001. 
55. R. Amirtharajah, S. Meninger, J. O. Mur-Miranda, A. P. Chandrakasan, and J. H. Lang, .A 
Micropower Programmable DSP Powered using a MEMS-based Vibration-to-Electric Energy 
Converter,. in Solid State Circuits, IEEE International Conference, 2000, pp. 362. 363. 
56.  S. Meninger, .A Low Power Controller for a MEMS Based Energy Converter,. Master's thesis, 
Massachussets Institute of Technology, June 1999. 
57.  J. O. Mur-Miranda, .Electrostatic Vibration-to-Electric Energy Conversion,. Ph.D. dissertation, 
Massachussets Institute of Technology, February 2004. 
58.  J. O. Mur-Miranda, J. H. Lang, A. P. Chandrakasan, A. H. Slocum, M. A. Schmidt, R. Amirtharajah, 
and S. E. Meninger, .Vibration-to-Electric Energy Conversion,. Slides available from 
http://www-mtl.mit.edu/.jomur/MEMSLunchPresentationOct2000.pdf, 9th July 2002. 
59. S. Roundy, P. K. Wright, and K. S. Pister, .Micro-Electrostatic Vibration-to-Electricity Converters,. in 
2002 ASME International Mechanical Engineering Congress and Exposition, New Orleans, Louisiana, 
USA, November 2002. 
60. A. Nounou and H. F. Ragaie, .A Lateral Comb-Drive Structure for Energy Scavenging,. In 
International Conference on Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering, September 2004, pp. 
553.556. 
61. R. Tashiro, N. Kabei, K. Katayama, Y. Ishizuka, F. Tsuboi, and K. Tsuchiya, .Development of an 
Electrostatic Generator that Harnesses the Motion of a Living Body,. JSME International Journal, vol. 
43, no. 4, pp. 916.922, 2000, series C. 
62. P. J. Harrop, Dielectrics. 88 Kingsway, London: Buttorworth and Co. Publishers Ltd., 1972. 
63. T. Sterken, K. Baert, R. Puers, and S. Borghs, .Power Extraction from Ambient Vibration,. in 
Proceedings of SeSens (Workshop on Semiconductor Sensors), Veldhoven, the Netherlands, 
November 2002. 
64. T. Sterken, P. Fiorini, K. Baert, K. Puers, and G. Borghs, .An Electret-Based Electrostatic 
表 Y04 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
98 年 11 月 12 日
報告人姓名 潘吉祥 服務機構
及職稱
國立勤益科技大學機械工程系
教授兼學務長
時間
會議
地點
98 年 10 月 22 日 至 25 日
立陶宛 Vilinus
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 98-2221-E-167-007
會議
名稱
(中文) 2009 第五屆機電系統及材料國際研討會議
(英文) The 5th International Conference Mechatronic Systems and Materials
(MSM 2009)
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 利用形狀記憶合金開發一嶄新的微型夾子
(英文) Development of a Novel Micro-gripper Using Shape Memory Alloy
報告內容應包括下列各項：
一、 參加會議經過
2009 第五屆機電系統及材料國際研討會議主要是由 Mechanical Faculty of Vilnius
Gediminas Technical University, Kaunas University of Technology, Lithuanian Academy of
Sciences, Opole University of Technology, Bialystok Technical University, IFToMM National
Committee of Lithuania, UNESCO International Centre for Engineering Education, Lithuanian
Technology platform "Future Manufacturing"所組成，目的是提供一個互相交流機電系統及材料
資訊、研究及合作機制的平台。舉辦時間為 98 年 10 月 22 日 至 25 日，地點在立陶宛首
都 Vilinus 之 Mechanical Faculty of Vilnius Gediminas Technical University(如照片一所示)。
此次會議的主題如下：
Mechatronic Systems:
Robotics: Industrial, Microrobotics, Mobile Robots
Applications of Artificial Intelligence
Sensors and Actuators in Mechatronics
Control of Mechatronics Systems
Analysis of Vibration
Optimization, Optimal Design
Integrated Diagnostics
Failure Analysis
Tribology in Mechatronics Systems
Analysis of Signals
Materials (properties, modelling, manufacturing and processing):
Multifunctional and Smart Materials
Metallic Alloys
Functional Composites
Adaptive Materials
Piezoelectric Materials
Nanomaterials
Ceramics and Glasses
Materials weldability and welding metallurgy
附
件
三
表 Y04 3
照片(一) Mechanical Faculty of Vilnius Gediminas Technical University
照片(二)會議的開幕及歡迎始業式 照片(三) 本人在註冊處的留影
照片(四)Keynote speaker 照片(五)口頭(Oral)報告
表 Y04 5
2. 此次參加會議利用用餐時段與與會之人員有所交談認識、意見交流及互換名片，特別是
在歡迎晚宴上更是隆重熱情，把東歐及立陶宛的風情搬上檯面，讓與會者除了在學術上
有所交流，在情誼上也有所交流，對於後續合作交流有所幫助。
3. 本會議主要是由 Mechanical Faculty of Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, Kaunas
University of Technology, Lithuanian Academy of Sciences, Opole University of Technology,
Bialystok Technical University, IFToMM National Committee of Lithuania, UNESCO
International Centre for Engineering Education, Lithuanian Technology platform "Future
Manufacturing"聯合承辦，參加者多為東歐國家及立陶宛，而本人是亞洲唯一參加者，因
此特別引起注意，也安排擔任 session chairman，使本人可更多與參加者有所聯誼，對於
陌生的東歐學術環境有更進一步的了解與認識。
4. 此次會議最大的收穫之ㄧ是與其中一位重要的負責人 Prof. Dr Habil. Eng. Ewald
MACHA(Opole University of Technology))可單獨共進早餐，因此可以充分交通，並且本
人當場邀請當事人可將此會議移至台灣辦理相關國際研討會，讓台灣一些技職學校可與
本會議聯盟的學校交流。此外本人也邀請當事人可前來本校作短期的學術課程授課。
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
四、 建議
無
五、 其他
Ful papers wil be printed in the journal “Solid State Phenomena” (covered by Conference
Proceedings Citation Index - Science (CPCI-S)) after Conference and sent to authors by post.
六、 攜回資料名稱及內容
1. 議程手冊及其摘要論文集冊(附件一)
2. 交換之名片(附件二)
表 Y04 7
附件(二)交換之名片
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：潘吉祥 計畫編號：98-2221-E-167-007- 
計畫名稱：微機電發電晶片之設計與製造 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 80%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
