 2
Introduction 
As a charged surface is brought in contact with an electrolyte solution, a thin electric double layer (DL) 
of thickness λ = 10−100nm is created adjacent to the surface. Due to persistent Poisson-Boltzmann 
equilibrium of the DL charges, the surface charge will be screened by the DL, leading to a precipitous drop 
of the electric potential from the surface toward the bulk, called zeta potential, ζ .  Since ζ ≈ λσes/ε 
depends on the constituents of the surface and the ionic strength of the electrolyte, where σes is the surface 
charge density and ε is the permittivity of the electrolyte, it can reflect part of the characteristics of the 
surface, providing a unique fingerprint for a given surface-fluid system.   
          It is therefore essential to characterize surface properties through measuring zeta potentials. The 
common strategy to measure the zeta potential for a charged surface is to invoke electro-osmosis (EO) by 
utilizing its plug flow character with the Smoluchowski slip velocity: U = −εζ E/η, where E is the applied 
electric field and η is the viscosity of the fluid. Since U is proportional to ζ  but independent of 
macroscopic length scales, this character offers a convenient way to determine the surface zeta potentials 
macroscopically by simply measuring the mobility µ = εζ /η of the flow. While a number of techniques 
have been developed toward this end, we in particular emphasize the transient current method1 because it is 
easily implemented and capable of obtaining surface zeta potentials accurately. In this method, under the 
actions of EO, one electrolyte solution is displaced in a capillary by the second but with different 
concentration. Since this EO-driven solution displacement renders a progressive change in the Ohmic 
resistance across the capillary and a transient current must respond to that change, surface zeta potentials 
can then be determined from the temporal behavior of the current during the displacement.  
 
Motivation 
         Compared to other methods,2,3 monitoring transient currents appears more advantageous to determine 
zeta potentials in micro systems, since it invokes neither hydrodynamic forces nor flow visualization. 
Moreover, given that practical microdevices are often composed of different surfaces, the current 
monitoring method is more appealing to measure the zeta potentials simultaneously in such systems. It 
might also offer an alternative for characterization of surfaces or assessment of interfacial kinetics. 
 4
and R2 are connected with the hybrid one Rmix in between, yielding the total resistance R = R1+ Rmix + R2. 
By the definition of Ohmic resistor, R1 = (L−U2t)/(σ1A) and R2= U1t/(σ2A) with time t and the cross 
sectional area, A, of the channel. Similarly, Rmix can be written in terms of the apparent conductivity σmix of 
the slant zone: Rmix = (U2−U1)t/(σmixA). Here we approximate σmix as the mixing-cup average of the two 
conductivities: σmix = rσ1 +(1− r) σ2, where r = (U2 − Uave)/(U2−U1) is the volume ratio of solution 1 
occupied in the zone moving with the average velocity Uave. It can also be shown analytically, by solving 
an EO in a three-dimensional channel, that Uave = (U1+U2)/2+(U1−U2) f where f is a geometric factor and is 
a function of the depth-to-width ratio. Lumping all the above into R and applying the Ohm’s law, we arrive 
at the following equation describing the behavior of the transient current I during t ≤ τ (the displacement 
time):   
                            ( )( ) ( )( ) 


Λ++−
−++Λ=−
−≡ −−
−−
L
tU
ff
fUUf
II
IIY 2211
1
1
2
1
1
1
 
)21(21
 21/21                                                                 (1) 
Here, Ik = ∆V/Rk  is the current under voltage ∆V across the channel when the channel is completely filled 
by solution k (k=1,2), and Λ = σ1/σ2 is the conductivity ratio. Also, instead of using current as in the usual 
methodology, we take inverse current as our primary variable to reflect the linear change in the resistance 
with time.  In the special case with U1 =U2≡U, Eq. (1) reduces to (I −1 −I1−1)/(I2−1 −I1−1) = U t /L,                                   
in accordance with the usual recipe using uniformly charged channels.1 
             For unlike-charge case in which the two surface velocities are in the opposite directions, however, 
the displacement process, as depicted in Figure 1b, differs from that in like-charge case. Suppose that the 
displacing phase (solution 2) starts from the left and flows toward the right. Because of the opposition 
between the two surface velocities, the displaced phase (solution 1) near the upper left portion of the 
channel will be entrained by the top surface velocity and flow back to the left reservoir. On the other hand, 
the nearby displacing phase is discharged from the same reservoir due to the bottom surface velocity.  Such 
counteraction between local fluid entrainment and discharge makes the fluid near the left corner virtually 
stationary. Thereby, one end of the concentration front can be thought of being pinned at the left corner 
while the other is pulled by the bottom surface and advances toward the right.  As a result, the slant zone is 
stretched mostly by the bottom velocity U2 and hence the equivalent circuit is constituted merely by Rmix 
and R1 in series. The mixing-up conductivity of the slant zone now becomes σmix = (1− Uave/U2) σ1+ 
 6
=1.75:1. The measured conductivities of the 15mM and 20mM solutions are 990 and 1242µS/cm, 
respectively. Before experiment, two platinum electrodes were placed separately in the reservoirs at both 
ends of the cell and connected to a DC power. To measure the current across the cell, an auxiliary resistor 
is placed between the power generator and the cell.1 The flow system was set up by first filling one solution 
from one end of the cell. After emptying one reservoir, the other solution was then loaded into the cell until 
the two reservoirs reached the same liquid level. After applying voltage of 500V, an EO was immediately 
set off to displace the solutions. The responded current passage was recorded via a computer by monitoring 
the potential change across the auxiliary resistor.   
 
Results and Discussion    
         We examine electrolyte displacement in PDMS channels, which carry negative charge, on the 
following substrates: (i) PDMS, (ii) bare glass with negative charge, and (iii) amino-coated glass with 
positive charge5, representing uniformly charged, like-charge, and unlike-charge systems, respectively. 
Representative transient currents are plotted in terms of normalized inverse current Y and shown in Figure 2. 
The zeta potentials can be readily obtained from the slopes of these curves.  For Figure 2a, the lower 
conductivity solution displaces the higher one, giving rise to an increase in the resistance with time. The 
results reveal that it takes shorter time to complete displacement in PDMS-glass composite channels 
compared to that in a uniform PDMS channel, suggesting that the magnitudes of the zeta potentials of the 
glasses must be larger than that of PDMS. Indeed, the measured zeta potentials for PDMS, bare glass, and 
amino-coated glass are –19.4±4.7, –27.1±15.2 and 133.7±20.5 mV, respectively. Figure 2b shows similar 
results obtained by displacing the lower conductivity solution, as evidenced by a decrease in the resistance 
with time. The corresponding zeta potentials for PDMS, bare glass, and amino-coated glass are –
17.2±5.0, –47.5±18.6 and 90.6±13.1 mV.  Comparing these two sets of the data, first of all, we find that for 
a PDMS channel the measured zeta potentials do not exhibit an apparent disparity as reversing the flow, as 
a uniform EO does not cause any hydrodynamic dispersion.5 These data also agree well with the reported 
value −19.1mV obtained by different techniques,7 verifying the reliability of our approach. The variations 
of the data could arise from additional dispersion induced by the pre-existing conductivity difference.8  
 8
than in the axial direction.9 Such transverse dispersion is the strongest near the pinned end where the flow 
is the slowest, but diminishes away from it because of the gradual increase in axial convection. As a result, 
the dispersed region will be enriched by the higher conductivity phase. This enrichment in turn increases 
(decreases) the apparent conductivity when displacing higher (lower) conductivity solution and hence the 
displacement speed, resulting in the larger (smaller) magnitude of the measured zeta potential. 
 
Concluding Remarks 
    To our best knowledge, the present work is the first demonstration of measuring surface zeta 
potentials of composite channels using the current monitoring method. We show that the behavior of the 
transient currents in composite microchannels differs from that in uniformly charged channels due to 
asymmetric displacement arising from non-uniform EO. Also because of hydrodynamic dispersion and its 
interplays with the EO, transient currents can show different responses when reversing the displacement 
direction and hence affect the zeta potential measurement. While surface zeta potentials can be measured 
with satisfactory accuracy using our simple dispersion-free circuit models, more reliable measurement 
requires a more rigorous approach to account for hydrodynamic dispersion. One can, in principle, obtain 
the conductivity distribution by solving a cross-sectional averaged convective-diffusion equation whose 
effective dispersion coefficient is a function of the unknown zeta potentials. The responded transient 
current can then be derived in terms of the averaged resistance across the channel length for finding the 
zeta potentials. Prior to such a detailed analysis (which is beyond the scope of this work), the present work 
is nevertheless an ab initio attempt that provides some insights into the phenomenon. Hence, it can serve as 
a useful guidance for conducting more accurate measurement of surface zeta potentials of practical 
microdevices.  
 
References 
1 X. Huang, M.J. Gordon, and R.N. Zare, Anal. Chem. 60, 1837 (1988); L. Ren, J. Masliyah, and D. Li, J.Colloid 
Interface Sci. 257, 85 (2003). 
2 S.L. Walker, S. Bhattacharjee, E.M.V. Hoek, and M. Elimelech, Langmuir 18, 2193 (2002). 
3 S. Devasenathipathy and J.G. Santiago, Anal. Chem. 74, 3704 (2002); M.H. Oddy and J.G. Santiago, J. Colloid 
Interface Sci. 269, 192 (2003); D. Yan, C. Yang, N.-T. Nguyen, and X. Huang, Electrophoresis, 27, 620 (2006). 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
