 I
英文摘要(Abstract) 
 
Marine propeller tip vortices are usually strong enough to induce cavitation in the vortex cores. 
Tube-shaped vapor cavity extending along the vortex trajectory becomes a way of visualizing the 
host tip vortex. Previously, we observed for some propeller (P6003) that the tip vortex cavity seems 
to burst into a fog-like micro-bubble cluster (FMBC) when the advance coefficient (J) drops below 
some value, along with a broad-band noise generation. This striking phenomenon and its 
application motivate us to study its origin and the associated multi-phase flow interactions. 
Experiments were conducted with the MCT (Median Cavitation Tunnel) at NTOU with the PIV 
(Particle Image Velocimetry) imaging system. We started by performing detailed visualizations of 
the patterns of cavitation associated with three different propellers, the designs of which are of 
distinct purposes: P6003 is a six-blade, NACA-profile propeller; P4017 is featured with the 
new-section profile designed to reduce the sheet cavitation over the blade; CLT501 has endplates on 
its five blade tips that the tip vortices can be significantly suppressed. The FMBC formation 
associated with P6003 was the phenomenon repeated as previously observed that the tip vortex 
cavitation disappeared as if it had burst into the FMBC. The experiment associated with P4017, 
however, showed that the FMBC obviously came out of the sheet cavitation and coexisted with a 
stable and strong tip vortex cavitation. This cavitation pattern seems to suggest that what exactly 
bursts into the FMBC is not tip vortex cavitation but sheet cavitation. The stronger evidence 
favoring this conjecture came from the experiment associated with CLT501, showing clearly that 
the FMBC could be formed from the sheet cavitation, even without the tip vortex and then the tip 
vortex cavitation which were actually suppressed by the endplate of CLT501. Therefore, we reach a 
conclusion that the FMBC formation, once thought to be originated from the “tip vortex cavitation 
bursting”, should be caused by the “sheet cavitation bursting”. 
We propose according to these observations that what actually happened with P6003 was that 
the sheet cavitation changed the blade geometry (e.g., thickness and camber), leading to the tip 
unloading that caused the disappearance of the tip vortex cavitation by reducing the strength of the 
tip vortex. The FMBC shed from the sheet cavitation eventually got drawn into the tip vortex and 
sustained for a long distance downstream. The future work to prove this theory includes CFD 
simulations and PIV measurements of this multi-phase flow.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
前言及研究目的(Introduction) 
 
Cavitation has been a long-term subject pursued by many science researchers, marine 
technologists, naval architects, propeller designers, and so on. It is a complicated, multi-phase 
phenomenon, requiring inter-disciplinary studies including fluid mechanics, bubble dynamics, fluid 
physics and thermodynamics, and acoustics. To the concerns of naval architecture industry, 
cavitation induced by propeller is detrimental due to its strong effects in three major categories: 
erosion, noise, and vibration ([1] Kuiper 1998). For example, the rapid fluctuation (or distortion) of 
the cavity volume that causes significant pressure fluctuation plays an important role in noise 
generation and ship hull vibration ([1] Kuiper 1998). 
The increasing demand on the speed and capacity of modern merchant ships requires 
tremendous thrust delivered by highly-loaded propellers, resulting in very strong vortices shed from 
the propeller tips. These vortices are easy to cavitate due to the significantly low pressure in the 
vortex core ([2] Brennen 1995). This co-called “tip vortex cavitation” (denoted as TVC hereafter) is 
usually the first-appearing type of cavitation when ships speed up. Furthermore, TVC causes severe 
noise problems at ship stern, e.g., [3] Raestad 1996 and [4] Shyu et al. 1998, and therefore becomes 
an important issue that propeller designers need to resolve. Consequently, substantial research 
efforts have been invested in the TVC phenomenon as reviewed by [5] Kuiper 2001 and [6] Arndt 
2002. In the naval architecture community of Taiwan, TVC as a subject has also drawn attention 
and has been studied numerically and experimentally (e.g., [7] Yang 1993 and [8] Chiuo 1999). 
The structure of TVC is quite stable in general ([2] Brennen 1995 and [6] Arndt 2002). Under 
certain conditions, however, TVC seems to burst, i.e., cavitation vapor pack implodes or breaks up 
into a fog-like micro-bubble cluster (denoted as FMBC hereafter). This phenomenon was clearly 
observed both in the medium and large cavitation tunnels located at NTOU by [9] Kehr 2003. In 
this study of a six-blade NACA-profile propeller (P6003), the advance coefficient (J) was reduced 
from 0.84 to 0.82 while keeping the cavitation number (σ) constant, and then it was found that the 
diameter of TVC was increasing as the usual trend with increasing propeller thrust (Fig. 1a). It was 
not until J was lowered down below 0.78 that the TVC disappeared and the FMBC formed (Fig. 1b). 
At the first glance this phenomenon seemed to strongly suggest that the TVC had burst into the 
formation of FMBC, and we have followed this “TVC bursting” notion for some time and planned 
to study the microscopic breakup process of the TVC bubble as our original proposal. [9] Kehr 
2003 and some of our preliminary studies, however, observed a strong correlation between the 
occurrences of FMBC and sheet cavitation on the propeller surface. This result pointed out another 
possibility that the FMBC could be originated from the sheet cavitation, not the TVC. Therefore, we 
concentrated our research focus to detailed visualizations of the (macroscopic) patterns of 
cavitation associated with three propellers that have different designs as to yielding different 
suppression effects on either TVC or sheet cavitation. We hoped by doing so that the origin of 
FMBC formation can be clarified.  
 3
This argument serves as one of the motivations for our next step to implement PIV (particle image 
velocimetry) system (Ref. [13]-[16]) to our cavitation tunnel facilities after the present research is 
done. We plan to perform 2-D PIV measurements in the second year and proceed to 3-D 
(stereoscopic) PIV in the third year. It is our belief that a much clearer picture of the multi-phase 
flow associated with the FMBC formation will emerge after we complete these steps.      .               
 
研究方法(Methodology) 
  
Experimental Setup 
We will perform experiments in the medium cavitation tunnel (MCT) facility at NTOU with a 
flow visualization system including a stroboscope, a PIV cross-correlation CCD camera, and a data 
acquisition system which also synchronizes all the devices with the encoder signal of the motor that 
drives carefully chosen propeller models. We briefly describe these major experimental elements as 
follows: 
1. Cavitation tunnel: 
The MCT facility (Fig. 2a) at NTOU is a close-loop, circulation type of water tunnel. The 
cross-sectional area is 0.5 m × 0.5 m. The flow speed in the facility can be as high as 11.68 m/s, and 
the inflow uniformity can be maintained quite well as long as 0.4σ ≥ . An adjustable inclined-shaft 
dynamometer was integrated with the tunnel facility for measurements of propeller’s torque (Q), 
thrust (T), vertical force, and horizontal force. The signal port for the signal from the motor encoder 
is available.  
        
                 (a)                                          (b) 
Fig. 2 (a) MCT at NTOU, and (b) the schematic of the experimental setup for imaging. 
 
2. Flow visualization system: 
We plan to use a “cross-correlation” CCD camera specifically designed for PIV measurements 
because of its ability to acquire two images with a very short time separation, i.e., Δt can be as short  
as 0.1 μs. Based on the typical rotational speed of the propeller (around 25 rps), the size of the field 
of view, and the maximum flashing frequency of our presently available lighting source 
 5
  
                 (a)                                          (b) 
Fig. 3 Cavitation patterns associated with P6003 at (a) J = 0.82, and (b) J = 0.76. 
 
  
                 (a)                                          (b) 
Fig. 4 Cavitation patterns associated with P4017 at (a) J = 1.20, and (b) J = 1.10. 
 
  
                 (a)                                          (b) 
Fig. 5 Cavitation patterns associated with CLT501 at (a) J = 0.80, and (b) J = 0.65. 
 
Figure 4 shows the cavitation pattern associated with P4017. Since P4017 is designed with the 
new-section profile which theoretically should reduce the sheet cavitation over the blade, the 
 7
計畫成果自評(Self-Evaluation)  
 
This research project actually deals with two distinct phenomena, the TVC bursting and the 
FMBC formation. They have both academic and industrial importance, for example, the related 
applications of noise, vibration, and erosion in the field of naval architecture. The complex nature of 
this multi-phase, multi-dynamics problem makes it hard to elucidate the actual cause and 
mechanism behind the interesting phenomena. This may explain why there are so few literatures on 
this subject in the open domain. Therefore, the results of this project appear unique and valued in 
both academic and industrial orientations, especially the achievement on clarifying the origin of the 
FMBC formation. These findings are definitely worth publishing in academic journals, and the 
writing is underway. However, the research effort on this subject can not stop now because what we 
have achieved unveils only the first layer of the problem. We can only say that we are now on the 
right track, dealing with the right subject, i.e., the “sheet cavitation bursting” instead of the TVC 
bursting. We need to move on to our original plan in studying the detailed dynamics of cavitation 
and flow. Using novel experimental techniques as described in our proposals, much more profound 
understanding about this subject can be achieved.                          
 
參考文獻(References)  
 
[1] Kuiper, G., 1998, “Cavitation Research and Ship Propeller Design,” Applied Scientific 
Research, Vol. 58, pp. 33-50. 
[2] Brennen, C. E., 1995, “Cavitation and Bubble Dynamics,” Oxford University Press. 
[3] Raestad, A. E., 1996, “Tip Vortex Index – An Engineering Approach to Propeller Noise 
Prediction,” The Naval Architect, July/August 1996. 
[4] Shyu, R. J., Wang, W. H., and Chang, J. R., 1998, “A Full Scale Measurement and Analysis of 
Propeller Generated Underwater Sound Pressure,” 第十一屆中國造船暨輪機工程研討會, 
1998. 
[5] Kuiper, G., 2001, “New Developments around Sheet and Tip Vortex Cavitation on Ships’ 
Propellers,” CAV 2001, Lecture 007. 
[6] Arndt, R. E. A., 2002, “Cavitation in Vortical Flows,” Annual Review of Fluid Mechanics, Vol. 
34, pp. 143-175. 
[7] Yang, C.-T. (楊正財), 1993, “翼端渦漩流場及其空蝕之研究,” 博士論文, 國立台灣大學造
船工程學研究所.   
[8] Chiuo, C.-H. (邱棋鴻), 2000, “螺槳葉端渦漩流場量測與解析,” 博士論文, 國立台灣大學
造船暨海洋工程學研究所.   
[9] Kehr, Y. Z., 2003, unpublished results. 
[10] English, J. W., 1979 “Cavitation Induced Hull Surface Pressures – Measurements in a Water 
Tunnel,” Proceedings, RINA Symposium on Propeller Induced Ship Vibration, Dec. 1979. 
[11] Hadler, J. B., English, J. W., and Gupta S. K., 1984, “Program to Minimize Propeller-Induced 
