應用於奈米電子元件之矽化鎳閘極及接面製程開發(I) 
“Nickel Silicide Gates and Junctions for Nano Devices” 
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-492-013 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：吳文發   國家奈米元件實驗室 研究員 
 
一、 中文摘要 
隨著 CMOS 製程技術的提昇，元件尺寸
及閘極氧化層厚度日益縮小，使得複晶矽閘極
摻雜技術所導致的硼穿透、閘極空乏等問題日
趨嚴重，造成電晶體臨界電壓飄移與驅動電流
縮限的情形更加明顯。而為了微縮金氧半電晶
體元件及抑制短通道效應，源、汲極的接面深
度不斷地減少，然而隨著超淺源、汲極接面的
應用，源、汲極本身的串聯電阻不斷上升，卻
進一步的限制了元件驅動電流的大小。 
目前，最有效的解決之道便是運用金屬作
為閘極及源、汲極的材料。因金屬閘極不需要
複晶矽摻雜，可以徹底的解決硼穿透與閘極空
乏的問題，且運用金屬閘極更可降低傳導電
阻，減少電路操作時的電阻電容延遲。另一方
面，以金屬材料來取代傳統的摻雜接面作為
源、汲極結構，也有效解決了超淺接面對元件
驅動電流的限制。因此採用金屬作為閘極及
源、汲的金氧半電晶體將成為未來 CMOS 元
件技術的主流。本計劃的主要目的即在發展全
金屬閘極及金屬源、汲極所需的製程技術，並
探討採用金屬電極後對金氧半電晶體特性的
影響。希望能經由金屬矽化物的技術開發，應
用至金屬閘極與金屬汲、源極的製備，再整合
成自我對準金屬矽化物技術，以製作出高性能
與新穎的金氧半電晶體元件結構來解決目前
奈米金氧半電晶體元件技術的困境。 
本計劃著重在以金屬矽化鎳技術製作閘
極電極與源、汲極接面的開發，利用基礎的接
面結構來探討金屬矽化物對源、汲極接面行為
的影響，並導入全金屬矽化鎳閘極技術，以應
用於金氧半電晶體元件的製作，深入探討矽化
鎳金屬閘極與源、汲極技術對金氧半電晶體特
性的影響。 
英文摘要 
For the past thirty years, the scaling of 
MOSFET devices had followed the path of the 
so-called Moore’s Law to achieve the better 
circuit performance and the higher packing 
density. However, as the MOSFETs scale down 
into nanoscale regime, it is a great challenge to 
further improve drain current due to the 
degradations coming from the enhanced 
polysilicon gate depletion and the increased 
source/drain series resistance. Solutions that 
reduce the current degradation are innovated 
through the introduction of new materials on 
device structures: the metal gate electrodes and 
the metal source/drain.  
The objectives of this program are to 
develop, fabricate and analyze the innovated 
MOSFETs with fully silicide (FUSI) gate and 
metal source/drain. The metal source and drain 
are fabricated by using nickel silicide process. 
The key techniques of silicide technology are 
developed and the effects of Schottky 
metal-semiconductor contact are investigated. 
We are also focused on the development of the 
fully silicided gate. The nanoscale MOSFETs 
are fabricated by using the integrated nickel 
極的影響，透過縮減源、汲極的深度大小，抑
制來自橫向的穿透電場以提昇閘極對通道的
控制力 [9,10]。但是應用超淺的源、汲極接面
雖然控制了短通道效應的惡化，但因為源、汲
極接面深度的過小，而使得源、汲極之串聯寄
生電阻不斷上升。而隨著通道長度陸續的縮
小，此部分的影響比例將會不斷惡化，進而使
元件的驅動電流下降。因此如何能繼續的微縮
金氧半電晶體元件，並保持 CMOS 元件原有
之特性，是半導體業者與學術界亟待努力的目
標和研究的課題。而本計劃的目的，便是希望
藉由金屬矽化物來製作閘極與源/汲極，以提
昇對金氧半電晶體元件的特性，解決元件不斷
縮小所遭遇到的困境。 
三、 研究方法及成果 
本計劃以(100)平面阻值介於15~25 Ω-cm 
之矽晶圓為基礎，先將矽晶圓經過標準RCA清
洗後，以常壓高溫爐管進行氧化層的成長，其
厚度為5奈米，此氧化層的目的是用來反應出
FUSI閘極層與其下的閘極氧化層表面之間的
相互影響；而在矽基材上形成閘極氧化層後，
接著在沉積一層100奈米的多晶矽層，在本實
驗中我們固定多晶矽層之厚度，藉此估算欲形
成不同相位之金屬矽化鎳時所須的鎳金屬的
厚度與鎳金屬相對於多晶矽層之比例；本實驗
中我們以物理沉積方式將鎳金屬沉積於多晶
矽層上，此時便形成鎳/多晶矽/二氧化矽之閘
極堆疊式結構(如圖一所示)；特別的是，在本
實驗是以沉積鎳之厚度變化來研究矽化鎳相
位的變化。 
接著我們將上述的結構以快速熱製程
（RTP）的方式來形成鎳金屬矽化物，製程條
件為溫度由 500 度至 650 度，每 50 度為一間
隔，其回火時間則為 30 秒，接著利用硫酸與
過氧化氫以 3 比 1 之比例配製之溶液做溼蝕
刻，以此溶液去除未反應與多餘之鎳金屬，圖
二為此實驗之主要製作流程圖。 
 
圖一：全金屬矽化物閘極結構示意圖。 
 
圖二：全金屬矽化鎳閘極製程流程圖。 
    經由實驗結果我們發現不同相位之鎳金
屬矽化物可以利用不同的鎳金屬與多晶矽層
之比例來作精確的控制，圖三說明了三種不同
的厚度比例所形成不同相位之鎳金屬矽化
物，當鎳沉積之厚度愈厚，便會形成以鎳金屬
為主要相位之鎳金屬矽化物。 
 
 
 
圖三：不同的厚度比例所形成不同相位之鎳金
屬矽化物。 
 
    我們可以藉由X光繞射（XRD）方式來分
析鎳金屬矽化物之相位，本實驗中三種不同比
例之結構分別經過不同的回火溫度所分別形
成不同相位的鎳金屬矽化物可以由圖四至圖
圖八為全金屬矽化物 (FUSI)閘極結構
TEM 圖，我們透過高解析度穿透式電子顯微
鏡（TEM）檢視三種利用不同結構所形成全金
屬矽化物閘極，觀察其是否會對閘極氧化層與
矽基材之接面造成缺陷，其微結構是否有所改
變，圖八(a)與圖八(b) 為兩種不同放大尺度的
TEM 照片，由圖中我們發現 FUSI 閘極可均勻
的形成，且無穿透或是結塊之情況發生，此外
FUSI 閘極與氧化層與矽基材之間皆很平坦，
而且也沒有發現缺陷形成於接面之處。 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
圖八：全金屬矽化物閘極結構 TEM 微觀圖。 
四、 結論與討論 
本研究計畫藉由不同的金屬矽化鎳相位
來完成調變金屬功函數，以便使金屬矽化物閘
極之金屬功函數能藉由此方式調變至所需的
位置，也藉此證明金屬矽化物閘極可以適用於
下一世代的金氧半電晶體元件中。 
五、參考文獻 
1. ITRS, “International Technology Roadmap for 
Semiconductors”, 2005 edition. 
2. Y. Taur, C. H. Wann, and D. J. Frank, “25 nm CMOS 
design considerations”, in IEDM Tech. Dig., pp. 
789-792, 1998. 
3. Y. Taur, “CMOS design near the limit of scaling”, 
IBM J. Res. & Dev., Vol. 46, pp. 213-222, 2002. 
4. B. Yu, H. Wang, O. Milic, Q. Xiang, W. Wang, J. X. 
An, and M.-R. Lin, “50nm gate-length CMOS 
transistor with super-halo: design, process, and 
reliability”, in IEDM Tech. Dig., pp. 653-656, 1999. 
5. H. Wakabayashi, M. Ueki, M. Narihiro, T. Fukai, N. 
Ikezawa, T. Matsuda, K. Yoshida, K. Takeuchi, Y. 
Ochiai, T. Mogami, and T. Kunio, “45-nm gate-length 
CMOS technology and beyond using steep halo”, in 
IEDM Tech. Dig., pp. 49-53, 2000. 
6. C. C. Chen, C. Y. Chang, C. H. Chien, T. Y. Huang, 
H. C. Lin, and M. S. Liang, “Temperature-accelerated 
dielectric breakdown in ultrathin gate oxides,” Appl. 
Phys. Lett., Vol. 74, pp. 3708-3710, 1999. 
7. Wen-Jie Qi, Renee Nieh, Byoung Hun Lee, Laegu 
Kang, Yongjoo Jeon, Katsunori Onishi, Tat Ngai, 
Sanjay Banerjee, and Jack C. Lee, “MOSCAP and 
MOSFET characteristics using ZrO2 gate dielectric 
deposition directly on Si”, in IEDM Tech. Dig., p.145, 
1999. 
8. I. Polishchuk, P. Ranade, T.-J. King, and C. Hu, 
“Dual work function metal gate CMOS transistors by 
Ni-Ti interdiffusion”, IEEE Electron Device Lett., Vol. 
23, pp. 200–202, Apr. 2002. 
9. A. Hokazono, K. Ohuchi, K. Miyano, I. Mizushima, 
Y. Tsunashima, and Y. Toyoshima, “Source/drain 
engineering for sub-100 nm CMOS using selective 
epitaxial growth technique,” in IEDM Tech. Dig., pp. 
243-246, 2000. 
10. T. Ito, K. Suguro, T. Itani, K. Nishinohara, K. Matsuo, 
and T. Saito, “Improvement of threshold voltage 
roll-off by ultra-shallow junction formed by flash 
lamp annealing”, in VLSI Tech. Dig., pp. 53-54, 
2003. 
gests that the insertion of the buffer film, i.e., poly-Si, be-
tween the Ni and poly-SiGe films was beneficial to the elec-
trical and thermal properties.
Figure 1b displays the sheet resistances of various nar-
row lines of samples i–iii annealed at 600 °C. The sheet
resistance of lines of sample i remained nearly constant for
linewidths ranging from 200 to 100 nm, which is consistent
with previous findings.7 The slight decrease in resistance that
occurred after shrinking the linewidth from 100 to 60 nm
was caused by edge effects of the recessed spacer forming a
thicker silicide at the line’s edge.8 In contrast, the sheet re-
sistance for sample ii increased upon reducing the line-
width. This phenomenon, the well-known fine-line effect,
had been reported from a study of Ti silicide,9 but has never
been reported for NiSi, Ge lines formed on poly-SiGe. The
fine-line effect vanished after insertion of poly-Si, i.e., for
sample iii. This behavior should improve the process sta-
bility of such systems, especially for sub-100 nm devices.
We infer that the larger NiSi, Ge grains resulting from the
ready grain growth of poly-SiGe after annealing was the
main cause of the increased sheet resistance in sample ii.
Similar behavior resulting from grain size effects has been
previously described.10
Figure 2 displays cross-sectional TEM micrographs of
the silicide films obtained after annealing at 850 °C.
Samples i and ii Figs. 2a and 2b, respectively pos-
sessed completely agglomerated silicide structures that were
responsible for the poor electrical properties observed in
Fig. 1. These images also reveal the occurrence of layer in-
version, i.e., the reversal of the positions of the silicide and
poly-SiGe layers, which is consistent with previous
findings.11 These agglomerated silicide islands resulted from
poly-SiGe grain growth and a recrystallization effect dur-
ing treatment at high temperatures. Moreover, Chen et al.
have reported that the Ge segregation effect of NiSi, Ge
would result in a more severe thermal stability problem for
NiSi, Ge formed on poly-SiGe.12 The segregation of Ge
from NiSi, Ge grains is driven by the heat of formation for
NiSi being more favorable than that of NiGe. In contrast, the
grains in sample iii retained their columnar structure and a
uniform interface existed between the silicide and poly-SiGe
see Fig. 2c and its inset. The uniform interface is likely
caused by the Ge, which is expelled from the Ni–Si–Ge com-
pound, blocked the Ni diffusion paths, and resulted in the
delay in the formation of NiSi2.13,14 Similar results were also
reported for CoSi2 formed on a SiGe layer.15 This observa-
tion implies that the insertion of the poly-Si film in sample
iii maintained the film’s continuance and curtailed agglom-
eration in the silicide film.
In Fig. 3, we propose a model to explain the stress-
induced grain growth suppression of the silicide film. In
FIG. 1. a Sheet resistances of the nickel germanosilicide films formed on
poly-Si sample i, poly-SiGe sample ii, and poly-Si/poly-SiGe stack
layers sample iii as a function of the annealing temperature. b Sheet
resistances of the nickel germanosilicide lines annealed at 600 °C as a
function of the linewidth.
FIG. 2. Cross-sectional TEM micrographs of the nickel germanosilicide
films formed on a poly-Si sample i, b poly-SiGe sample ii, and c
poly-Si/poly-SiGe stack layers sample iii after annealing at 850 °C.
182106-2 Wu et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 182106 2008
Author complimentary copy. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://apl.aip.org/apl/copyright.jsp
