 ii
計畫中文摘要 
近年來，由於蛋白質資料庫爆炸性且持續性的成長，與蛋白質相關的資訊不斷地被解析出
來，其中包含了大量未知功能的蛋白質序列，帶來了生物資訊領域於蛋白質序列分析的研
究需求。多年來，針對未知功能的蛋白質序列進行功能預測一直為生物學家與資訊學家共
同努力的方向。然而，蛋白質序列的功能性註解工作隨著近年來有越來越多的蛋白質被證
實擁有兩個以上的功能而變得相對複雜。「兼職蛋白質」一詞也就是指同一蛋白質，也就是
完全相同的蛋白質序列，卻與兩個以上的生物功能相關。兼職蛋白質(moonlighting proteins)
－或稱為多功能蛋白質(multifunctional proteins)－的存在使得蛋白質的功能性預測變為更
為棘手。從序列比對的角度出發，經常只會發現第一功能，而第二功能可能隱藏在大量相
似度比較不顯著的序列比對結果中。也因為兩個蛋白質不需要有太高的序列相似度，即可
能折疊出近似的 3D 結構，進而有相同的功能；甚至兩個蛋白質的 3D 結構也不需要有類似
的折疊方式，而只需要有相似的功能區，即可能有相同的功能，蛋白質功能的預測也因此
被導向應該重視一些局部的保留性胺基酸序列。也就是說，蛋白質序列中可能僅有非常少
數的胺基酸，對此蛋白質的功能是有關鍵影響力的，而這些保留性胺基酸區塊可能會散布
在序列的很多地方。這些局部的序列或結構特徵，於進行蛋白質功能預測時，比起整段序
列或完整的結構資訊來得更為有用，因此很多研究也試圖從蛋白質的序列特徵分析其與功
能或結構的關聯性。在此我們提出利用蛋白質的局部序列特徵來判斷或預測一個蛋白質是
否為多功能性，或是用其來尋找一個蛋白質的第二功能；我們將搭配本實驗室近年來專研
於蛋白質序列分群的研究成果，進一步提昇多功能性蛋白質預測的準確度。此計畫期待能
解決或進一步探討下面三個問題：一、如何改善現有的序列探勘演算法應用於兼職蛋白質
之預測；二、如何針對兼職蛋白質預測之結果進行評估同時賦予保留性胺基酸區塊生物意
義；三、無序結構(protein disorder)與蛋白質的多功能性兩者之間是否有關聯性。 
 
 1
一、前言 
The goal of this project aims at providing a reliable method for protein functional prediction. We 
plan to tackle it by sequential pattern mining. In this regard, it is desirable to investigate how the 
proposed pattern mining methodology performs when identifying the functional signatures of 
proteins directly from the primary structures, the amino acid sequences. In this report, we first 
provide a comprehensive study on automatic discovery of hot regions in protein-protein 
interactions by sequential pattern mining. Second, we demonstrate that the proposed idea is 
working well in predicting catalytic residues of enzymes. After that, the task of predicting 
multi-functional proteins is then realized on enzyme families by pattern matching to the 
pre-calculated signatures of each Enzyme Commission number (EC number), a numerical 
classification scheme for enzymes. 
二、研究目的 
Identification of functionally important regions directly from a protein sequence is a challenging 
problem in molecular biology [ 1- 7]. Investigation of possible protein-protein interactions and 
prediction of the associated physical binding areas facilitate the study of all aspects of cellular 
function [ 8,  9]. The principles that govern the interaction of two proteins and the general 
properties of their interacting interfaces remain uncovered [ 10- 12], resulting in the difficulties of 
predicting interface regions directly from protein sequences. Even when the structure of a protein 
is available, it is still not a trivial task to localize the functional interfaces and to clarify the 
contribution of each involved residue [ 7,  13,  14]. 
Previous studies observed that not all the interface residues contribute the same level of free 
energy in a complex [ 15,  16,  17]. Using the alanine scanning mutagenesis [ 18], which estimates 
the energetic contribution of individual side-chains, it suggests that a small set of interface 
residues can contribute the most to the binding free energy [ 15,  16,  19]. These critical residues 
are called hot spots; they give rise to a significant increase in the absolute binding energy when 
mutated to alanine [ 15,  16,  20]. It is interestingly observed that hot spots are not uniformly spread 
along the interfaces. Instead, they are clustered as densely packed regions and are surrounded by 
energetically less important residues which might serve to occlude bulk solvent from the hot 
spots [ 15]. The assemblies of the hot spots and its neighboring moderately conserved residues are 
called hot regions [ 17]. A single or a few hot regions can be found in the interacting interface of 
two proteins [ 17,  21]. Within the dense clusters, the hot spots and some moderately conserved 
residues both contribute to the stability of the complex [ 17]. 
For catalytic site prediction, same situation is observed. Catalytic residues are even more 
scattered in sequences. When structure information is not available, it is of interest to investigate 
how pattern mining approaches help. Previous motif discovery methods usually find short amino 
acid stretches represented as consecutive regular expressions or profiles. However, short patterns 
are considered less complete and not specific enough in characterizing the protein function and 
tend to result in false positives when they are used to detect important residues on sequences. 
 3
technique has been widely used to identify protein motifs in many previous studies [ 48- 50], 
where the term motif refers to such a subsequence that captures the characteristic regarding a 
specific biochemical function [ 51]. Finding functional motifs directly from protein sequences is 
challenging, because many sequence motifs are discontinuous and the spacing between motif 
elements is usually large and irregular [ 51]. By considering large flexible gaps in sequential 
pattern mining, the developed method can deliver long patterns spanning large wildcard regions 
efficiently [ 1,  47]. Though the conserved blocks in our patterns are largely separated in sequences, 
they are often close to each other in 3D structures and play critical roles to protein functions [ 1]. 
The proposed methodology performs well even when the similarity identities between input 
sequences are low or the functional sites are only conserved in a few members of the input 
sequences [ 47,  1]. This feature is important since it has been observed that residues that are 
conserved only in a specific subfamily may play more family-specific functional roles and are 
usually found at functional patches [ 5,  6,  14,  52]. We expect that a highly supported pattern may 
highlight the residues that were conserved together during evolution for a particular purpose, for 
example, interacting with other proteins. The experimental results conducted in this work reveal 
that the conservation information provided by sequential pattern mining is helpful to this problem 
before any existing structures are included to facilitate the learning task. 
This report investigates the effectiveness of the approach by answering the following two 
questions: (1) are the locations of the sequential blocks near the interfaces of protein-protein 
interactions? and (2) do the derived sequential blocks tend to cluster together in space?  Of 
course the first question is more related to the objective of this study. But by answering the 
second question, we expect to make it clearer why the proposed methodology works. We do not 
address the recall issue in this paper because we are aware of that it might not be possible to 
identify the complete set of interacting residues by a single pattern or in a single run of mining 
process. In fact, identifying important residues associated with hot regions is not identical to the 
problem of predicting interacting residues. As mentioned in the previous paragraphs, not all the 
interface residues are hot spots and expected to be conserved. On the other hand, some interior 
residues might also contribute to the stability of the complexes and are thus conserved. This work 
aims to show that the information provided by sequential pattern mining is useful to discovering 
hot regions of protein-protein interactions. This information can be refined and incorporated in 
other approaches to enhance the predicting power of the state of the art predictors. 
 
四、研究方法 
In this section, we provide the details about the procedures of discovering and selecting patterns 
for predicting hot regions. 
The residues associated with an interface are not necessarily found in one region of the 
sequence. Instead, it is usually observed that several remote segments of a protein sequence 
constitute a binding site [ 53- 55]. Since it is time consuming to find long patterns with large 
irregular gaps, we recently presented a novel algorithm named MAGIIC to tackle this problem by 
 5
1. The maximum length of an intra-block gap: the length of intra-gap is rigid and cannot 
exceed the specified value. 
2. The minimum number of residues in a block: a sequential block must contain at least a 
certain number of residues to eliminate noises. 
3. The flexibility of an inter-block gap: a sequence can match a pattern as long as the 
inter-block gap does not violate the flexibility with respect to the query protein. 
4. The minimum number of blocks in a pattern: a binding site is usually consisted of more than 
one protein segment. This constraint is set as 2 by default. 
5. The minimum support of a pattern: the minimum percentage of sequences in the training 
data that match the derived pattern. 
Setting minimum support is not an easy task. A loose bound may lead to explosion of patterns 
and cost a huge amount of computation, while a tight bound might result in no patterns. In 
MAGIIC-PRO, this issue is handled automatically by relaxing the minimum support constraint 
step by step until an expected number of desired patterns are discovered. In this regard, the 
patterns match the most input sequences will always be reported first. 
Mining procedures 
The complete procedures for identifying interacting interfaces for a query protein are as follows: 
1. Obtaining homologues of a query protein (150 at most): This is achieved by running 
PSI-BLAST [ 57] against Swiss-Prot database [ 58] posted on Aug 4, 2005 with 
BLOSUM62 [ 60] substitution matrix and an E-value cut-off of 0.01. If the 
homologues of query protein are not sufficient in Swiss-Prot database (< 5 
homologues), the searching is executed one more time against the non-redundant (NR) 
database [ 61] posted on Aug 4, 2005. The sequences nearly identical to the query 
protein (sequence identity from BLAST > 90%) or with a low identity (sequence 
identity from BLAST < 30%) against the query protein are further excluded from the 
training data.  
2. Executing pattern mining: The minimum support is initially set as 100% and 
decreased repeatedly until at least one pattern with five blocks is discovered. A 
sequential block must contain as least three conserved residues, and the maximum 
length of an intra-block gap is 3. The mining process is terminated once the mining 
period exceeds four minutes in a single run, which often happens when the setting of 
minimum support constraint is too low such that the number of patterns explodes. If 
no patterns with five blocks can be reported with the previous settings, MAGIIC-PRO 
is invoked iteratively with the constraint on minimum number of blocks relaxed by 
one at a time. 
3. Emerging information from all the patterns with two or more blocks into one 
conservation plot: The derived patterns are collected together to create a conservation 
plot. The conservation plot provides a whole picture about the conserved residues of a 
query protein. In this plot, the conservation scores are represented in different colors. 
 7
The summary of the experimental results on the second dataset is provided in Table 2. 
Among the 220 protein chains in the second dataset, two protein chains are excluded from the test 
set because the protein sequence of the protein chain [PDB:1ml0, chain B] is not available in the 
PDB file and the protein chain [PDB:1m10, chain A] does not have enough homologues for 
pattern mining (< 5 homologues). As listed in Table 2, MAGIIC-PRO successfully generated 
patterns for 212 protein chains. For each chain, we selected the pattern with the most components 
(called the maximum-size pattern) as the prediction of hot regions. Since only patterns with at 
least two blocks are reported, a maximum-size pattern always has two or more blocks to examine. 
Here we define two indices to evaluate the quality of a pattern: 
1. Clustering propensity: the percentage of sequential blocks in a pattern P that interacts 
with at least one of the other blocks in P. The interaction between a pair of blocks is 
defined by the following criterion: there exists an atom from one block that is within 
5Å to an atom of the other block. 
2. Interface propensity: the percentage of sequential blocks in a pattern P that contacts 
another protein chain in the complex. The definition of contact is that any of the atoms 
from the block is within 7Å to any atom of another protein chain in the complex. 
The clustering propensity of a pattern reflects its reliability. We consider that a higher value of 
this index indicates that the pattern is more biologically meaningful, either from function or 
structure point of view. For each query protein, the clustering and interface propensities are 
calculated for its maximum-size pattern. The average values for different categories of protein 
complexes are provided in Table 3. The group of enzyme-inhibitor complexes slightly 
outperforms the other categories. It can be seen in Table 3 that the results on the non-redundant 
set are similar. When creating the non-redundant set, the program CD-HIT was applied directly to 
the 212 protein chains to avoid selecting the protein chains that failed to deliver patterns as the 
representatives. 
Table 1: Summary of the second dataset, the protein-protein docking benchmark 2.0 
Complex category Number of complexes Number of chains 
Enzyme-Inhibitor/Substrate 23 51 
Antigen-bound Antibody 12 35 
Antibody-Antigen 10 30 
Others 39 104 
Total in the dataset 72 220 
Table 2  - Summary of the experimental results for the second dataset 
Number of tested protein chains 218 
Number of patterns examined 212 
Number of discovered blocks 900 
Average number of blocks per protein chain 4.25 
Average time used for each protein chain 11.76 seconds 
Number of blocks that is near interface 592 (~66%) 
Number of blocks that form clusters 832 (~92%) 
The maximum support of the patterns 100% 
The minimum support of the patterns 13% 
Average support of the patterns 66% 
 9
one 4-digital EC number as have described, one and only one EC number, called the target EC, 
can be chosen without ambiguity for further signature matching and prediction process. 
For each signature in the target EC, sequence alignment is employed to align the query 
sequence with the reference sequence of the signature. In case the suggested EC number does not 
fit the expectation of the users, they can manually select other EC numbers through a candidate 
list collected from the other homologues found by PSI-BLAST. When a different EC number is 
specified, E1DS will re-perform the prediction process described to adapt the prediction results. 
This option is in particular useful when multiple functions are investigated. 
We evaluate the performance of E1DS using a collection of known catalytic sites. The 
performance of E1DS is reported in terms of the number of catalytic sites and the number of 
catalytic residues that can be predicted. The E1DS signatures are compared with existing 
PROSITE patterns [ 67] which are designed for characterizing protein functions. Furthermore, we 
compare the performance of E1DS with a structure-based approach, THEMATICS [ 68]. Details 
about the two datasets used in the following discussions can be found in our recent publication 
[ 69]. 
As shown in Table 4, E1DS delivers the total success rate of 49.6%, about 16% higher than 
PROSITE on the CSA831 dataset. Moreover, more than 70% (35.5% divided by 49.6%) of 
successful predictions of E1DS are correct. This ratio is much higher than the predictions of 
PROSITE in which correct predictions account for about 56%. It suggests that E1DS signatures 
are capable of not only identifying more catalytic sites but also providing more comprehensive 
information of predicted catalytic sites. Similarly for all 2573 catalytic residues in the CSA831 
dataset, E1DS successfully captures 30.0% while PROSITE only captures 16.3% catalytic 
residues. However, PROSITE has slight advantage over E1DS (98.6% verse 96.7%) in terms of 
specificity. This result is reasonable since E1DS signatures are constructed to characterize the 
functional regions as complete as possible while PROSITE patterns are designed for function 
inference to achieve both high sensitivity and specificity when performing functional prediction. 
For a single chain, E1DS reports 12.7 putative catalytic residues while PROSITE reports 5.6 
putative catalytic residues in average. 
As described in the previous section, the CSA831 dataset contains sites that have no E1DS 
signatures associated with the same 4-digital EC number. The CSA346 column in Table 4 focuses 
on those catalytic sites that have both E1DS signatures and PROSITE patterns. In this subset, 
both E1DS and PROSITE improve the performance in a significant degree. The comparison 
indicates that the better performance of E1DS in total success rate on the CSA831 dataset might 
be due to its higher signature coverage of ECs. 
Table 5 shows the performance of E1DS on CatRes177. E1DS delivers 41.8% correct and 
15.2% partially correct predictions at the site level and 32.9% sensitivity and 96.9% specificity at 
the residue level. These statistics are similar to the performance on the CSA831 dataset. 
THEMATICS was evaluated using the same 178 proteins from CatRes database [ 68]. However, 
nine sites were excluded because of poor structure quality and/or other structural issues. 
According to records reported in the paper of THEMATICS, it achieves 48.5% correct and 29.0% 
partially correct predictions at the site level and 41.1% sensitivity at the residue level, when the Z 
 11
 
 
Fig. 1. Multiple function prediction implemented in E1DS. 
References: 
1. Hsu CM, Chen CY, Liu BJ: MAGIIC-PRO: Detecting functional signatures by efficient discovery 
of long patterns in protein sequences. Nucleic Acids Res 2006, 34:W356-W361. 
2. Zvelvbil MJ, Barton GJ, Taylor WR, Sternberg MJ: Prediction of protein secondary structure and 
active sites using the alignment of homologous sequences. J Mol Biol 1987, 195: 957-961. 
3. Godzik A, Sander C: Conservation of residue interactions in a family of Ca-binding proteins. 
Protein Eng 1989, 2:589-596. 
4. Valdar WS: Scoring residue conservation. Proteins 2002, 48:227-241. 
5. Livingstone CD, Barton GJ: Protein sequence alignments: A strategy for the hierarchical analysis 
of residue conservation. Comput Appl Biosci 1993, 9:745-756. 
6. Casari G, Sander C, Valencia A: A method to predict functional residues in proteins. Nat Struct Biol 
1995, 2:171-178. 
7. Armon A, Graur D, Ben-Tal N: ConSurf: An algorithmic tool for the Identification of functional 
regions in proteins by surface mapping of phylogenetic information. J Mol Biol 2001, 
307:447–463. 
8. Sali A et al: From words to literature in structural proteomics. Nature 2003, 422:216–225.  
9. Rhodes DR et al: Probabilistic model of the human protein–protein interaction network. Nat 
Biotechnol 2005, 23:951–959. 
10. Janin J: Elusive Affinities. Proteins: Struct Funct Genet 1995, 21:30–39. 
11. Xu D et al: Hydrogen bonds and salt bridges across protein–protein interfaces. Protein Eng 1997, 
10: 999–1012. 
12. Lo Conte L, Chothia C, Janin J: The atomic structure of protein–protein recognition sites. J Mol 
Biol 1999, 285: 2177–2198. 
13. Lichtarge O, Sowa ME: Evolutionary predictions of binding surfaces and interactions. Curr Opin 
Struct Biol 2002, 12:21-27. 
14. Lichtarge O, Bourne HR and Cohen FE: An evolutionary trace method defines binding surfaces 
common to protein families. J Mol Biol 1996, 257:342–358. 
 13
36. Panchenko AR, Kondrashov F, Bryant S: Prediction of functional sites by analysis of sequence and 
structure conservation. Protein Science 2004, 13:884-892. 
37. Caffrey DR et al: Are protein–protein interfaces more conserved in sequence than the rest of the 
protein surface. Protein Science 2004, 13:190–202. 
38. Hu Z, Ma B, Wolfson H, Nussinov R: Conservation of polar residues as hot spots at protein 
interfaces. Proteins: Structure, Function, and Genetics 2000, 39:331–342. 
39. Ouzounis C, Perez-Irratxeta C, Sander C, Valencia A: Are binding residues conserved?. Pac Symp 
Biocomput 1998, 401-412. 
40. Aloy P, Querol E, Aviles FX, Sternberg MJ: Automated structure-based prediction of functional 
sites in proteins: Applications to assessing the validity of inheriting protein function from 
homology in genome annotation and to protein docking. J Mol Biol 2001, 311:395-408. 
41. Res I, Mihalek I, Lichtarge O: An evolution based classifier for prediction of protein interfaces 
without using protein structures. Bioinformatics 2005, 21:2496-2501. 
42. Ofran Y, Rost B: Predicted protein-protein interaction sites from local sequence information. 
FEBS Lett 2003b, 544, 236-239. 
43. Yan C et al: A two-stage classifier for identification of protein-protein interface residues. 
Bioinformatics 2004b, 20:i371-i378. 
44. Madabushi S, Yao H, Marsh M, Kristensen DM, Philippi A, Sowa ME, Lichtarge O: Structural 
clusters of evolutionary trace residues are statistically significant and common in proteins. J Mol 
Biol 2002, 316:139-154. 
45. Gallet X, Charloteaux B, Thomas A, Brasseur R: A fast method to predict protein interaction sites 
from sequences. J Mol Biol 2000, 302(4):917-926. 
46. Pei J, Han J, Mortazavi-Asl B, Wang J, Pinto H, Chen Q, Dayal U, Hsu MC: Mining Sequential 
Patterns by Pattern-Growth: The PrefixSpan Approach. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and 
Data Engineering 2004, 16:1424-1440. 
47. Hsu CM, Chen  CY, Hsu CC, Liu BJ: Efficient discovery of structural motifs from protein 
sequences with combination of flexible intra- and inter-block gap constraints. In Proceedings of 
the 10th Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining: 9-12 April 2006; 
Sigapore. Edited by J. G. Carbonell and J. Siekmann: Springer Berlin/Heidelberg 2006; LNCS 
3918:530-539. 
48. Rigoutsos I, Floratos A: Combinatorial pattern discovery in biological sequences: the teiresias 
algorithm. Bioinformatics 1998, 14:55-67. 
49. Jonassen I: Efficient discovery of conserved patterns using a pattern graph. Comput. Appl. Biosci 
1997, 13:509-522. 
50. Califano A: SPLASH: Structural pattern localization analysis by sequential histograms. 
Bioinformatics 2000, 16(4):341-347. 
51. Gregory AP, Dagmar R: Protein motifs. In Protein structure and function. 4th edition. Edited by 
Gregory AP and Dagmar R. Waltham, MA: New Science Press; 2003. 
52. Landgraf R, Xenarios I, Eisenberg D: Three-dimensional cluster analysis identifies interfaces and 
functional residue clusters in protein. J Mol Biol 2001, 307:1487-1502. 
53. Schueler-Furman O, Baker D: Conserved residue clustering and protein structure prediction. 
Proteins: Structure, Function, and Genetics 2003, 52:225-235. 
 15
計畫成果自評 
本計畫原預定於第一年應用序列探勘於有相同功能之蛋白質群，尋找蛋白質中具有功能之
序列特徵，並達到蛋白質功能預測之目的。此目的已順利於第一年內完成，所完成的成果
如下： 
 
1. 本所述之成果“利用本實驗室之前所開發之序列探勘演算法尋找蛋白質-蛋白質互動之
介面序列特徵”，此部份結果已彙整成一期刊論文，發表於國際期刊 BMC Bioinformatics, 
8(Suppl. 5):S8, 2007； 
2. 本計畫將相同的方法應用於尋找蛋白質酵素之催化區域序列特徵，初步實驗結果顯示
所提出之方法可順利達到預期目的，此部分結果已彙整成短篇論文，發表於國際會議
RECOMB-2007； 
3. 此外，我們亦用相同的方法應用於尋找蛋白質與 DNA 鍵結區域之序列特徵，初步成果
亦彙整成短篇論文，發表於國際會議 RECOMB-2007。 
 
本計畫原預定於第二年整理兼職蛋白質相關資料並應用序列探勘於兼職蛋白質之預測，同
時實作成網頁服務。此目的之後兩者已完成，唯第一項中關於兼職蛋白質之資料整理，因
目前文獻資料不夠充分，未來仍需進一步擴充才能使其適用於機器學習演算法，更進一步
提升兼職蛋白質之預測。本計畫於第二年所完成的成果如下： 
1. 本計畫將相同的方法應用於尋找蛋白質酵素之催化區域序列特徵，實驗結果顯示所提
出之方法可順利達到預期目的，此部分結果已彙整成期刊論文，發表於國際期刊
Nucleic Acids Research, Vol. 36, web server issue, W291-W296, 2008； 
2. E1DS 可針對酵素蛋白質進行功能預測，其結果顯示，確實有許多蛋白質都擁有兩種以
上催化功能，我們所預測的催化區域能進一步說明為何此蛋白質可能具有多功性。 
3. 此外，我們亦用相同的方法應用於尋找蛋白質與 DNA 鍵結區域之序列特徵，亦得到很
好的效果，此成果剛彙整成短篇論文，發表於國際會議 ECCB-2008。 
 
 
? Y04 
 
?????? 
???? ISMB ?????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
??????????????? poster ????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
??? poster ????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????? 
 
 
???? 
????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????? 
 
?????? 
1. ??????(? CD)??????? 
 
 
E1DS: catalytic site prediction based on 1-dimensional signatures of concurrent conservation 
Ting-Ying Chien1, Darby Tien-Hao Chang2, Chien-Yu Chen3, Yi-Zhong Weng1, and Chen-Ming Hsu4 
1 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
2 Department of Electrical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
3 Department of Bio-Industrial Mechatronics Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 106, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
4 Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Chung-Li, 320, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
r95108@csie.ntu.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
Large-scale automatic annotation of protein sequences remains challenging in post-genomics era. E1DS is 
designed for annotating enzyme sequences based on a repository of 1D signatures. The employed sequence 
signatures are derived using a novel pattern mining approach that discovers long motifs consisted of several 
sequential blocks (conserved segments). Each of the sequential blocks is considerably conserved among the 
protein members of an EC group. Moreover, a signature includes at least three sequential blocks that are 
concurrently conserved, i.e. frequently observed together in sequences. In other words, a sequence 
signature is consisted of residues from multiple regions of the protein sequence, which echoes the 
observation that an enzyme catalytic site is usually constituted of residues that are largely separated in the 
sequence. E1DS currently contains 5421 sequence signatures that in total cover 932 4-digital EC numbers. 
E1DS is evaluated based on a collection of enzymes with catalytic sites annotated in Catalytic Site Atlas 
(CSA). When compared to the famous pattern database PROSITE, predictions based on E1DS signatures 
are considered more sensitive in identifying catalytic sites and the involved residues. E1DS is available at 
http://e1ds.ee.ncku.edu.tw/ and a mirror site can be found at http://e1ds.csbb.ntu.edu.tw/. 
 
