2011國科會研究計畫結案報告
Final Report of NSC Research Program, 2011 October 2011
1
Diagnostics and Flight Safety Study of Structural Integrity for
Aging Transport Aircraft
超齡民航飛機結構完整性診斷與飛航安全探討
Ray C. Chang (臧瑞傳) 1 and Szuying Tan (譚嗣瀛) 2
Associate Professor1 andAssistant Professor2
Yu Jen Yang (楊育仁) 3, Hua Wei Lin (林華偉) 3, and Ming Hao Li (李明豪) 3
Reserch Assistant3
Department of Aviation Mechanical Engineering (航空機械系)
China University of Science and Technology (中華科技大學)
Project No: NSC 99-2221-E-157 -002-
ABSTRACT
In the present report, a methodology based on static aeroelasticity theory to indirectly determine the
structural integrity of aircraft will be presented. Aerodynamic models are established through fuzzy-logic
modeling of the flight data extracted from Flight Data Recorder (FDR). The aeroelastic effects in terms of
stability and control derivatives are then calculated by using these aerodynamic models to predict the
possible problems in structure and flight safety. The comparative analysis of aeroelastic effects for new
and aging passenger jet transports will be illustrated to examine the structural integrity of an aging one.
The relatively new jet transport is used to demonstrate the order of magnitude of the aeroelastic effects in
this report. The aging passenger jet transport under study has encountered severe atmospheric turbulence
with a sudden plunging motion in revenue flight. The comparison of static aeroelastic effects on
longitudinal aerodynamics for this aging transport before and during severe atmospheric turbulence will
also be presented in this report. Intrusive structural inspections can be avoided in cases with negligible
aeroelastic effects. The present method can be used to assist airlines to monitor the structural integrity as a
complementary tool to improve aviation safety, and operational efficiency.
Keywords：aging transport, static aeroelasticity theory; fuzzy-logic modeling; Flight Data Recorder (FDR);
dynamic pressure
摘 要
在本報告中，一個以靜氣彈力理論為基礎的方法，間接預測出飛機結構完整性將在本報告中呈
現，經由飛行數據紀錄器(FDR)所擷取的飛航數據以模糊邏輯模型化法來建立氣動力模型，使用此
氣動力模型可計算出就安定性與控制導數而論的氣彈力效應，從而預測出可能的結構及飛安問題。
比較分析新的及超齡的噴射客機氣彈力效應為研究案例，以此來檢視該超齡民航機結構的完整性。
在本報告中，相對較新的噴射客機被使用，來展示氣彈力效應的大小等級。在本研究中的超齡噴射
客機於航班飛行時遭遇到嚴重的大氣亂流，並造成劇烈的起伏運動。超齡噴射客機在遭遇到嚴重的
大氣亂流之前與期間，由縱向氣動力而產生的靜氣彈力效應之比較亦同時呈現於本報告。使用本方
法評估後若彈力效應可忽略，則對飛機侵入性之結構檢查可避免執行。此方法如同一個補助工具，
可以協助航空公司來監測結構的完整性，以增進飛航安全及營運效益。
關鍵字：超齡民航機、靜氣彈力理論、模糊邏輯模型化、飛行數據紀錄器、動壓
2011國科會研究計畫結案報告
Final Report of NSC Research Program, 2011 October 2011
3
})({
})ˆ({
1
2
1
2
12
j
m
j
j
m
j
j
yy
yy
R






 (2)
On the other hand, the coefficients of the
internal functions in Eq. (1) are calculated with the
Newton gradient-descent method by minimizing the
sum of squared errors (SSE):
2
1
)ˆ( j
m
j
j yySSE 

(3)
where jyˆ is the output of the fuzzy-logic model,
yj is the measured data, and y is the average value
of all data. Minimization is achieved by the Newton
gradient-descent method with iterative formulas
defined by: for r = 0,





n
s
jk
s
kj
s
jk
i
kj
i
jj
i
t
i
t
xAxAop
xAxAop
yyp
p
1
,,11
,,11
0,0
1,0
)](),...,([
)](),...,([
)(2
 (4)
and for r= 1, …, k,





n
s
jk
s
kj
s
jrjk
i
kj
i
jjr
i
tr
i
tr
xAxAop
xxAxAop
yyp
p
1
,,11
,,,11
,
1,
)](),...,([
)](),...,([
)(2
 (5)
Once the aerodynamic models are set up, one
can input to the models the influencing variables to
describe the flight conditions under analysis. In the
present paper, the static aeroelastic effects on
stability and control derivatives are all computed
with central differences through the aerodynamics
models.
3.2 Static Aeroelasticity Theory
Aircraft structures are not completely rigid,
and aeroelastic phenomena arise when structural
deformations induce changes on aerodynamic
forces. Aeroelasticity involves not only the external
aerodynamic loads and the way they change but
also the structural, damping and mass
characteristics of the aircraft in dynamic
aeroelasticity. Static aeroelasticity studies the
interaction between aerodynamic and elastic forces
on an elastic structure. Mass properties are not
involved in the calculations of this type of
phenomena. When the aircraft sustains a sudden
high load, this high load causes an increase in the
structural deformation, which leads to changes of
aerodynamic forces in a feedback process. These
interactions may become smaller until a condition
of equilibrium is reached, or may diverge
catastrophically if divergence occurs.
A method based on the concept of aeroelastic
effects on flight dynamic stability characteristics is
described in [9]. The idea is that any structural
deformation in flight due to flight loads will change
some aerodynamic parameters with a certain trend
under normal conditions [10]. The concept is
summarized as follows. Note that although the
following discussion is based on a panel or
finite-element method, the results to be presented
are obtained by modeling the FDR data, not the
theoretical method.
If an aircraft surface is divided into N panels,
then the panel forces would be:
}{ AF = }]{[ dwAq   (6)
where q is dynamic pressure; A is the
aerodynamic influence coefficient matrix defined as
the aerodynamic load per unit dynamic pressure per
unit area at one panel due to a unit angle of attack at
some other panel; d is angle of attack change
due to structural deformation; w is wing angle of
attack .
The aerodynamic forces acting on the structure
will cause the structural deformation:
}{ d = }]{[ AFC (7)
where Cis the so-called structural flexibility
matrix, being defined as the local angle of attack
change at one panel due to a unit load at some panel.
Combination of these two equations gives:
}{ AF =  wAqCAq  }1]{[]][[1 1 (8)
Summing over all panels, the total force
coefficient can be obtained:
e
zC  =
ref
T
A
Sq
SF }}{{ =  wzCCAq  1]][[1  (9)
where zC = ref
T SSA /}}{1]{[ and S is a vector
consisting of panel areas.
Therefore, the elastic derivative:
q
C
w
e
z



2
can be used to demonstrate the magnitude of
aeroelastic effects, mainly of the wing.
Similarly, the derivative:
q
C
w
e
m



2
indicates the relative magnitude of empennage
aeroelastic effects. The reason for using the second
derivatives is that the first derivatives with the
dynamic pressure is not sensitive enough to exhibit
the changes and tends to be too small. These
derivatives are all calculated with a central
2011國科會研究計畫結案報告
Final Report of NSC Research Program, 2011 October 2011
5
spline to the same sampling rate.
4.2 Aerodynamic Environment
To examine the aeroelastic effects on
longitudinal aerodynamics for Aircraft B2 during
severe atmospheric turbulence, it is imperative to
understand the flight environment first. The
corresponding flight data are presented in Fig. 4.
The variation of normal acceleration (az) is
presented in Fig. 4(a), showing the highest az being
1.75 g around t = 3930 sec and the lowest being
0.02 g around t = 3932 sec. Fig. 4(b) shows that 
is approximately in phase with az and reaches
about 7 deg, which is well above the cruise value in
transonic flight. Therefore, compressibility effect is
important. It should be noted that the turbulent
vertical wind field was not measured or estimated
in the FDR; but is included in the total. When the
aircraft is rapidly plunging downward with the
altitude (h) reaching the lowest as shown in Fig.
4(c), az becomes the highest (around t = 3930 sec).
The Mach number (M) drops from 0.81 to 0.72 in
Fig. 4(d). The aeroelastic effects can be expected to
be very significant under the circumstances of high
g loads and rapidly changing az in transonic flight.
Note: the magnitude of az is changed rapidly due to
the sudden plunging motion, not the other way
around.
4.3 Analysis of Model Predictions
The elastic derivatives in the study of
structural integrity are calculated with these
aerodynamic models of aerodynamic coefficients.
For Aircraft A, initial modeling shows that the
squared correlation coefficient (R2) of the normal
force Cz and pitching moment Cm models can only
reach of 0.9888 and 0.8583, respectively. This may
imply uncertainties due to structural vibration, the
estimated thrust, or some other unknown factors.
Since eventually derivatives of Cz and Cm will be
taken, and scattered Cz and Cm data will result in
scattered derivatives. At the same time, the
computing time can be minimized after the number
of data points being reduced. For this purpose, the
data reduction by model-based filtering [12] is
applied. Firstly, the model structure is determined
with all data included. After R2 remaining
unchanged, all data points that deviate from the
model-predicted values by more than a fixed
percentage, such as 10% for the present Cz and Cm
data, will be deleted.
In order to avoid the accuracy of the model
prediction is not enough, the number of points they
are removed each time not more than 10% of the
previous points. In the next run, the fixed
percentage is reduced, and so on, until R2 reaches a
value greater than the required value. Since the
present modeling is based on the least-square
method, the final estimated model will not be
affected by this type of filtering. For Aircraft A, the
R2 of Cz and Cm models reach of 0.9946 and 0.9902,
respectively. The number of data points for Cz and
Cm models is reduced from an original number of
911 and 820 to 911 to 826 and 678, respectively.
For Aircraft B1, the R2 of Cz and Cm models reach
from 0.9882 to 0.9948 and from 0.7862 to 0.9606,
respectively, after 10% deviated data being
removed, with the number of data points reduced
from an original number of 940 and 940 to 854 and
624, respectively.
The predicted normal force Cz and pitching
moment Cm coefficients for climbong phase of
Aircraft A and B1, and cruising phase for Aircraft
B2 are presented in Fig. 5, Fig. 6, and Fig. 7,
respectively. The squared correlation coefficients
(R2) of Cz and Cm for these two phases are shown in
Table 1. Note that R2 = 0.9948 implies that 99.48%
of the data can be explained and represented by the
established numerical model [13]. These high
correlation coefficients are reflected in the good
agreement of the model-predicted results with the
data.
4.4 Analysis of Aeroelastic Effects
The static aeroelastic effects on longitudinal
aerodynamics associated with dynamic pressure for
Aircraft A and B1 in climbing phase are shown in
Figs. 8 and 9, respectively. The aeroelastic effects
on longitudinal aerodynamics for Aircraft B2 in
cruising phase within the time span of 92 sec are
presented in Fig. 10. Based on static aeroelastic
effects, deformation under aerodynamic loads for a
conventional aircraft structure would
decrease
qz
C  and make qmC  more negative, in
such a way that the aerodynamic center would shift
back [2]. This is also related to aeroelastic stability.
For example, if
qz
C  is positive, it means the wing
would twist up under load, and the load would
further increase. In Fig. 9(b) for Aircraft B1, the
magnitude of
qz
C  is increased from a nominal
negative value at t= 60 sec to a nominal positive
one; and then is decreased as the dynamic pressure
reaches the peak values and angle of attack (Fig.
12a) decreases. For Aircraft A in Fig. 8(b), the
magnitude of
qz
C  is in a nominal positive value at
t= 790 sec and decreased as the dynamic pressure
reaches the peak values, and then is increased
further somewhat when dynamic pressure decreases.
This latter trend might be related to possible
2011國科會研究計畫結案報告
Final Report of NSC Research Program, 2011 October 2011
7
present an evaluating method of structural integrity
for two similar type passenger jet transports. The
method can be based on the flight data extracted
from FDR to predict the aeroelastic effects. Similar
data in the Quick Access Recorder (QAR) could
also be utilized. Qualitative evaluation of the
aeroelastic effects on the wing and tail was based
on the second derivatives of normal force and
pitching moment coefficients with the angle of
attack and dynamic pressure, respectively. A
relative new passenger jet transport was shown to
have negligible, but unusual, aeroelastic effects.
The aeroelastic issue of both aircraft in climbing
phase was traced to possible problems in the
stabilizer. The structural deformation, fatigue, or
vibration under higher aeroelastic effects is the
major problem for the aging transports. A tentative
conclusion was that the stabilizer should be checked,
not only in the readings of deflection angle, but also
the deflection mechanism. The aeroelasitc effects in
cruise with atmospheric turbulence were significant
in twist-down deformation. Because this method
employs the flight data stored in the FDR or QAR,
intrusive structural testing could be avoided. This
method could be used to assist airlines to monitor
the structural integrity as a complementary tool for
management of aging transport aircraft to improve
aviation safety, operation and operational efficiency.
Acknowledgments
This research project is sponsored by a grant,
NSC 99-2221-E-157 -002-, from National Science
Council (NSC). The accomplishment in this project
is part of the requirements set by the Aviation
Safety Council (ASC), Taiwan (R.O.C.).
References
[1] Cunningham, A., “The Role of Non-Linear
Aerodynamics in Fluid-Structure Interaction,” 
AIAA Paper 98-2423, 1998.
[2] Lan, C. E., Chang, R. C., and Guan, W. L.,
"Evaluation of Structural Integrity of Transport
Aircraft Based on Flight Data," Journal of
Aeronautics, Astronautics and Aviation, Series
A, Vol. 38, No. 3, Sept. 2006, pp. 159-166.
[3] Aircraft Accident Investigation Commission,
Ministry of Transport, Aircraft Accident
Investigation Report on Air Lines JA8119,
Boeing 747 SR-100, June 19, 1987.
[4] Aviation Safety Council, China Airlines, Flight
CI611, Boeing 747-200, B-18255, May 25,
2002, Aviation Occurrence Report Volume I,
ASC-AOR-05-02-001, June 2005.
[5] Aviation Safety Council, Far Eastern Air
Transport Flight EF 306, Boeing 757-200/Thai
Airways Flight TG659, Boeing 777-300, Nov
16, 2006, Aviation Final Report, August 2008.
[6] Federal Aviation Administration, Aging Airplane
Inspections and Records Reviews, Advisory
Circulars (AC) 120-84, U.S. Department of
Transportation, Oct. 22, 2004.
[7] Zadeh, L. A., "Outline of a New Approach to the
Analysis of Complex Systems and Decision
Processes," IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man,
and Cybernetics, Vol. SMC-3, No. 1, 1973, pp.
28-44.
[8] Chang, R. C., Ye, C. E., Lan, C. E., and Lee, Y.
L., “Nonlinear and Dynamic Aerodynamic
Models for Commercial Transport Aircraft with
Adverse Weather Efects,” Mathematical
Problems in Engineering, Volume 2010, Article
ID 924275, doi:10.1155/2010/924275.
[9] Roskam, J. and Lan, C. E., “A Parametric Study 
of Planform and Aeroelastic Effects on
Aerodynamic Center, - and q-Stability
Derivatives,” NASA CR-2117, Apr. 1973.
[10] Roskam, J., Airplane Flight Dynamics and
Automatic Flight Controls, Part I and Part II,
DAR Corporation, Lawrence, Kansas, 2003.
[11] Chang, R. C., Ye, C. E., Lan, C. E., and Guan,
W. L., "Stability Characteristics for Transport
Aircraft Response to Clear-Air Turbulence,"
Journal of Aerospace Engineering, Vol. 23, No.
3, July 2010, pp.197~204.
[12] Lan, C. E., Bianchi, Silvia, and Brandon, Jay
M., “Estimation of Nonlinear Aerodynamic 
Roll Models for Identification of
Uncommanded RolingMotions,” Journal of
Aircraft, Vol. 45, No. 3, May–June 2008, pp.
916-922.
[13] Barnes, J. W., Statistical Analysis for
Engineers and Scientists, McGraw-Hill, Inc.
1994, p.218.
Table 1 Squared Correlation Coefficients
of Numerical Models
R2 for model AircraftA
Aircraft
B1
Aircraft
B2
R2 for Cz (%) 99.46 99.48 97.89
R2 for Cm (%) 99.02 96.06 95.79
2011國科會研究計畫結案報告
Final Report of NSC Research Program, 2011 October 2011
9
Fig. 4 The time history of flight variables for
Aircraft B2 in severe atmospheric turbulence at the
altitude around 10,050 m in transonic flight
Fig. 5 Predicted longitudinal aerodynamic
coefficients for Aircraft A in climbing phase
Fig. 6 Predicted longitudinal aerodynamic
coefficients for Aircraft B1 in climbing phase
Fig. 7 Predicted longitudinal aerodynamic
coefficients in cruising phase
Fig. 8Aeroelastic effects on longitudinal
aerodynamics for Aircraft A
Fig. 9 Aeroelastic effects on longitudinal
aerodynamics for Aircraft B1
- 1 -
出國報告(出國類別：論文發表)
第 42屆國際飛安調查員協會
(ISASI)年會暨學術研討會
出國報告
(計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-157 -002-)
執行單位：中華科技大學航空機械系
姓名職務：臧瑞傳 副教授
派赴國家：美國猶他州之鹽湖城
出國期間：民國100年9月9日至9月19日
報告日期：民國 100年 10月 13日
- 3 -
壹、出國目的
第 42屆國際飛安調查員協會年會暨研討會(42nd Annual Seminar,
International Society of Air Safety Investigators)於 2011年 9月 12日~15日，
在美國猶他州之鹽湖城舉行。本計畫主持人臧瑞傳(Ray C. Chang)受邀前往
發表論文，同時利用此難得機會參與下列
貳、研討會過程
本次會議由美國運輸安全院（TSI）主辦參與人數約 300餘人，研討會
主題為『Investigation- A Shared Process”(調查－是一個分享過程)』。包括有 7
個場次 25篇論文及 3篇專題演講，大會年會暨研討會之議程如附件一，出
席研討會情況如相片一參與研討會出席情況。
相片一、出席研討會情況
本計畫主持人臧瑞傳論文發表被安排於 9月 14日(週三)13:30 pm~14:0
0 pm，發表時間 30分鐘。要等到下午四場論文發表後約 17:00 pm時才是
提問與回答時間，相片二為下午場次論文發表者，坐在講台上回答提問者問
題之相片，相片中左二為本計畫主持人 臧瑞傳。本計畫主持人所發表的論
文題目為「民航機遭遇大氣亂流結構完整性之評估(Evaluation of Structural
Integrity for Transport Aircraft Encountering Severe Atmospheric Turbulenc
- 5 -
本次行程圓滿且收穫豐富，藉由這次會議深入了解「事故調查過程效益
評估」的方法，針對重大空難之調查議題在本研討會有廣泛的討論，亦為未
來研究建立良好的溝通管道，參與大會年會暨研討會之我國代表合影如相片
三，相片中中間者為本計畫主持人，右為行政院飛航安全委員會王興中執行
長。本次研討會心得綜合整理如下：
一、由各主講人提及之調查案例，深感飛航相關人員訓練之深入紮實、經驗
累積及分享，實為增進飛航安全重要之關鍵。
二、有關飛機駕駛艙之設計，牽涉人機介面之適當性及人體工學，與人員之
身高、身材及人員背景相關，頇於設計前廣泛蒐集相關資料，應以有效、
明確、易於操作及辨識為主，避免混淆及過於複雜。
三、Airbus之飛機座艙設計多以電腦輔助方式提供飛航操作之相關資訊及警
訊，波音之設計則著重在整合不同使用者之經驗、建議及看法，以設計
出一對人較友善之操作環境，三菱之座艙則使用先進之科技，整合及集
中座艙相關顯示，企圖使飛航操作及座艙檢查簡單有效，但對將所有座
艙資訊集中顯示，可能產生混淆及忽略之情況。總之，經人為評估，既
使再不良之設計應均能透過訓練達到有效操作之目的，但如何能確實有
效、如期如質地達成訓練之目標及成效，與實際訓練之效能及效率息息
相關，此則為另一飛機設計之重要話題。
相片三、參與大會年會暨研討會之我國代表合影
- 7 -
附件一、大會議程
An International Accident Investigation and Prevention
Training Seminar
The International Society of Air Safety Investigators
Presents
"ISASI 2011"
Salt Lake City, Utah
September 12-15 2011
“Investigation-A Shared Process”
- 9 -
Monday: 7:30 am–9:00 am (Tutorial participants only)
Tuesday/Wednesday/Thursday 7:00 am–8:30 am (All)
Seminar Registration - (Room)
Social Program for all
Monday September 12th
Welcome Reception–(Meeting Room)
7:00 pm - 9:00 pm
Tuesday September 13th
Dinner–La Caille
5:30 pmMeet in Lobby
5:45 pmBuses depart hotel
9:15 pmFirst bus back to hotel
Thursday September 15th
Presidents Reception–(Room)
Time
Awards Banquet–(Room)
Time
Expected Dress
Technical Program–Business casual (No jeans, please)
Welcome Reception - Jacket & Tie/Cocktail Attire
La Caille–Casual (No jeans, please)
Reception/Banquet–Jacket & Tie/Cocktail Attire
Companion’s Program –Casual Day Attire (No jeans, please)
Break-out Meetings–4:30
Technical Program
- 11 -
11:30 Questions/Discussion from the floor
Noon Lunch–(Room)
1:30 Using “ASTERIX” in Accident Investigation
Michiel Schuurman–The Netherlands
Senior Investigator Aviation - Dutch Safety Board
Paul Farrell–Ireland
Inspector of Accidents - AAIU
2:00 Who Is Onboard in GA and Air Taxi Accidents?
Bob Matthews - USA
Office of Accident Investigation - FAA
2:30 Preventing the Loss of Control Accident
Patrick Veillette–USA
3:00 Afternoon Break
3:30 Analysis of Fuel Tank Fire and Explosion
N. Albert Moussa - USA
BlazeTech Corp.
4:00 Questions/Discussion from the floor
4:30 National Society Meetings
Wednesday Sept. 14–(Meeting Room)
8:30 Teamwork in the Cause of Aviation Safety
Sébastien David - Léopold Sartorius - France
Safety Investigators–BEA
9:00 Long Distance Investigations
Thorkell Agustsson–Iceland
Chief Inspector, Air Accidents–AAIB
9:30 Smaller Nations & Annex 13
- 13 -
4:30 ISASI Working Group Meetings
Thursday Sept. 15–(meeting Room)
8:30 B-787 Safety Presentation
Thomas Dodt - USA
Chief Engineer - Air Safety Investigation
Boeing Commercial Airplanes
9:00 Human Errors & Criminal Guilt
Yukiko Kakimoto - Japan
Institute of Human Factors
9:30 Pilots’ Cognitive Processes for Making In-flight Decisions under
Stress
Wen-Chin Li PhD–Republic of China
National Defence University Will
10:00 Morning Break
10:30 Human Factors Standardized Procedures
Helena Reidmar–USA
First Officer–Delta Airlines
11:00 “Back to Basics” Stil Work?
Mont Smith - USA
Director Safety - ATA
11:30 Questions/Discussion from the floor
Noon Lunch–(Room)
1:00 ISASI Business Meeting (ISASI Members)
1:30 Update on the AF 447 Investigation
BEA - France
2:30 Afternoon Break
- 15 -
附件二、大會發表之論文
Evaluation of Structural Integrity for Transport Aircraft
Encountering Severe Atmospheric Turbulence
Ray C. Chang
Associate Professor
Department of Aviation Mechanical Engineering
China University of Science and Technology
Email: raychang@cc.hc.cust.edu.tw
C. Edward Lan
J. L. Constant Distinguished Professor, Emeritus
Department of Aerospace Engineering
The University of Kansas
Lawrence, Kansas, 66045
Email: vortex@ku.edu
and
Wen-Lin Guan
Director
Investigation Laboratory
Aviation Safety Council, ISASI CP0174
Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Email: michael@asc.gov.tw
Dr. Ray C. Chang received a Ph.D. degree in aerospace engineering from University
of Kansas in 1985. He was a wind-tunnel test engineer, fighter aircraft designer,
Deputy Director, and Director of Aerodynamics Department in Aeronautical
Research Laboratory, Aero Industrial Development Center (AIDC), Taiwan in the
years of 1985~1996. He has been teaching at the Department of Aviation Mechanical
Engineering, China University of Science and Technology, Taiwan since 2003. He
has had extensive experiences in working on aircraft configuration design,
wind-tunnel test and flight test data analyses. Currently, his research focus is on
aircraft flight safety issues related to aerodynamics, flight dynamics, and engine
operations. He has managed a large number of National Science Council-sponsored
research projects since 2004, mostly in aircraft flight safety.
- 17 -
Proceedings of the International Society of Air Safety Investigators (ISASI) Seminar, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 12–15, 2011
q dynamic pressure, kpa
S wing reference area, m2
Tx thrust term along the x-body axes of aircraft, N
Tm thrust term in the pitching equation of motion, N
t time, sec
W aircraft weight in flight, N
,  angle of attack, deg and time rate of angle of attack, deg/sec., respectively
, sideslip angle, deg and time rate of sideslip angle, deg/sec., respectively
a,e,r control deflection angles of aileron, elevator, and rudder, respectively, deg
s stabilizer angle, deg
,, Euler angles in roll, pitch, and yaw, respectively, deg
 climbing angle, deg
1. Introduction
In the island environment, such as in Hawaii and Taiwan, structures are corroded in a faster
rate. As a result, structural material degradation often happens, especially when the aircraft is
loaded beyond its designed capabilities [1]. The number of takeoff and landing cycles should
also be factored in. Especially the empennage structure requires close monitor to ensure flight
safety. Any empennage with deformation under fatigue may change the effective setting of
pitching controls [2]. In other words, if the empennage suffers fatigue and deformation effects,
it will cause the stabilizer or elevator to have abnormal offset and flight control power to have
unusual changes.
Aircraft structures are not completely rigid, and aeroelastic phenomena arise when structural
deformations induce changes on aerodynamic forces. Aeroelasticity involves not only the
external aerodynamic loads and the way they change but also the structural, damping and
mass characteristics of the aircraft. Static aeroelasticity studies the interaction between
aerodynamic and elastic forces on an elastic structure. Mass properties are not significant in
the calculations of this type of phenomena. When the aircraft sustains a sudden high load, this
high load causes an increase in the structural deformations, which leads to changes of
aerodynamic forces in a feedback process. These interactions may become smaller until a
condition of equilibrium is reached, or may diverge catastrophically if resonance occurs.
A hard landing occurs when the aircraft impacts the ground with a greater vertical speed and
force than in a normal landing. The average vertical speed in a landing is around 120 m per
minute (around 400 ft per minute). Anything above is classed as 'hard'. When an aircraft has
- 19 -
where ilp are the coefficients of internal functions and l is number of input variables (x).
The values of each fuzzy variable, such as the angle of attack, are divided into several ranges,
each of which represents a membership function. The membership functions allow the
membership grades of the internal functions for a given set of input variables to be calculated.
The ranges of the input variables are all transformed into the domain of [0, 1]. Generally,
overlapped triangles are the shapes used to represent the grades in the present paper. A fuzzy
cell is formed by taking one membership function from each variable. The output of the
fuzzy-logic model is the weighted average of all cell outputs.
To identify the best structure of fuzzy cells of the model, i.e. to determine the best number of
membership functions for each fuzzy variable [7], the multiple correlation coefficient (R2) is
maximized:
})({
})ˆ({
1
2
1
2
12
j
m
j
j
m
j
j
yy
yy
R






 (2)
On the other hand, the coefficients of the internal functions in Eq. (1) are calculated with the
Newton gradient-descent method by minimizing the sum of squared errors (SSE):
2
1
)ˆ( j
m
j
j yySSE 

(3)
where jyˆ is the output of the fuzzy-logic model, yj is the measured data, and y is the
average value of all data. Minimization is achieved by the Newton gradient-descent method
with iterative formulas defined by:
for r = 0,


  n
s
jk
s
kj
s
jk
i
kj
i
jj
i
t
i
t
xAxAop
xAxAop
yypp
1
,,11
,,11
0,01,0
)](),...,([
)](),...,([
)(2  (4)
and for r= 1, …, k,


  n
s
jk
s
kj
s
jrjk
i
kj
i
jjr
i
tr
i
tr
xAxAop
xxAxAop
yypp
1
,,11
,,,11
,1,
)](),...,([
)](),...,([
)(2  (5)
Once the aerodynamic models are set up, one can input to the models the influencing
variables to describe the flight conditions under analysis. In the present paper, all static and
dynamic derivatives are all computed with central differences through the aerodynamics
models.
- 21 -
Similarly, the derivative:
q
C
w
e
m



2
indicates the relative magnitude of empennage aeroelastic effects. The reason for using the
second derivatives is that the first derivatives with the dynamic pressure is not sensitive
enough to exhibit the changes and tends to be too small. These derivatives are all calculated
with a central difference formula by using the numerical models.
3. Fuzzy-Logic Modeling
3.1 Compatibility Analysis
Typically, the longitudinal, lateral, and vertical accelerations (ax, ay, az) along the (x, y,
z)-body axes of aircraft, angle of attack, and the Euler angles (, , and ), as well as all
control deflections are available and recorded in the FDR of all transport aircraft. Since the
recorded flight data may contain errors (or called biases), compatibility analysis is performed
to remove them by satisfying the following kinematic equations:
 tancostansin rqp  (10)
 sincos rq  (11)
 sec)cossin( rq  (12)


cossin)coscos(
sin)cossin(coscos)sin(
ga
gagaV
z
yx


(13)
)sincos(tan
)cos/(]sin)sin(cos)coscos[(


rpq
Vgaga xz


(14)
Vgaga
rpVga
xz
y
/]cos)sin(sin)coscos[(sin
cossin/)sincos(cos




(15)
where g is the gravitational acceleration and V is the flight speed. Let the errors be denoted
by  bbbbbbbbbbbb Vrqpaaa zyx ,,,,,,,,,,, , respectively for ax, ay, az, etc. These errors are
estimated by minimizing the squared sum of the differences between the two sides of the
above equations (Eqs. 10~15). These equations in vector form can be written as:
)()( xxfxfz m
  (16)
where
TVz ),,,,,(  (17)
- 23 -
to capture all possible effects on aircraft response to structure deformations. The longitudinal
main aerodynamics is assumed to depend on the following ten flight variables, the models are
assumed to be of the form [10]:
Cz, Cm = f (,, q, k1,,e, M, p,s, q ) (27)
where the left hand side represents the coefficients of normal force (Cz), and pitching moment
(Cm), respectively. The variables on the right hand side of Eq. (27), where q is the pitch rate, k
the reduced frequency, e the elevator angle, M the Mach number, p the roll rate, s the
stabilizer angle, and q the dynamic pressure.
Note that all derivatives are calculated with the established aerodynamic models at the
instantaneous conditions of nonzero flight variables as the local slopes, not around the trim
conditions as usually done in the conventional method. It should be noted that the stabilizer
angle (s) is included here, because it varies, though slowly, in flight to provide pitch trim (i.e.
reducing the total static pitching moment to 0.0). The roll rate is included here because it is
known that an aircraft under high aerodynamic loads at transonic speeds may have its
longitudinal stability derivatives affected when additional disturbance due to roll rate is
imposed.
4. Numerical Results and Discussions
4.1 Aerodynamic Environment
To examine the aeroelastic effects on longitudinal aerodynamics for the twin-jet transport
during severe atmospheric turbulence, it is imperative to understand the flight environment
first. The corresponding flight data are presented in Fig. 1. The variation of normal
acceleration (az) is presented in Fig. 1(a), showing the highest az being 1.75 g around t = 3930
sec and the lowest being 0.02 g around t = 3932 sec. Fig. 1(b) shows thatis approximately
in phase with az andreaches about 7 deg, which is well above the cruise value in transonic
flight. Therefore, compressibility effect is important. It should be noted that the turbulent
vertical wind field was not measured or estimated in the FDR; but is included in the total.
When the aircraft is rapidly plunging downward with the altitude (h) reaching the lowest as
shown in Fig. 1(c), az becomes the highest (around t = 3930 sec). The Mach number (M)
drops from 0.81 to 0.72 in Fig. 1(d). The aeroelastic effects can be expected to be very
significant under the circumstances of high g loads and rapidly changing az in transonic flight.
Note: the magnitude of az is changed rapidly due to the sudden plunging motion, not the other
way around.
- 25 -
pressure is 11,972 N/m2 (250 lb/ft2) before encountering turbulence and the magnitudes are
decreased during the period of encountering turbulence in the period time of t= 3927~3940
sec, as indicated in Fig. 2(c).
Usually, the datasets in climb phase are more suitable for the study of static aeroelastic effects,
because the aircraft passes through the high dynamic pressure region before reaching the
cruise altitude. Fig. 3 presents the time history of main flight variables for the transport
aircraft in climb phase. The dynamic pressure is above 14,367N/m2 (300 lb/ft2) in time
segment at t = 280~860 sec; while the range of flight altitudes is 4,572m~8,534m.
Fig. 2 The time history of main flight variables for the twin-jet transport in
severe atmospheric turbulence at the altitude around 10,050 m in
cruse phase
- 27 -
4.3 Analysis of Model Predictions
In the present study, the accuracy of the established unsteady aerodynamic models with six
aerodynamic coefficients through FLM algorithm is estimated by the sum of squared errors
(SSE) and the square of multiple correlation coefficients (R2). The elastic derivatives in the
study of structural integrity are calculated with these aerodynamic models of aerodynamic
coefficients.
In climb phase, initial modeling shows that the squared correlation coefficient (R2) of the
normal force Cz and pitching moment Cm models can only reach 0.9882 and 0.7862,
respectively. This may imply that uncertainties due to structural vibration, the estimated
thrust, or some other unknown factors exist. Since eventually derivatives of Cz and Cm will be
taken, scattered Cz and Cm data will result in scattered derivatives. At the same time, the
computing time can be minimized after the number of data points being reduced. For this
purpose, the data reduction by model-based filtering [11] is applied. Firstly, the model
structure is determined with all data included. After R2 remaining unchanged, all data points
that deviate from the model-predicted values by more than a fixed percentage, such as 10%
for the present Cz and Cm data, will be deleted.
In order to avoid the accuracy of the model prediction being degraded, the number of points
to be removed each time should not exceed more than 10% of the previous points. In the next
run, the fixed percentage is reduced, and so on, until R2 reaches a value greater than a preset
value. According to the experience in aerodynamic modeling, the value of R2 for Cz is usually
higher. The value in the climb phase reaches 0.99. The value of R2 for Cm is lower than that
of Cz. To avoid too many points being removed, the preset value is 0.95. Since the present
modeling is based on the least-square method, the final estimated model will not be affected
by this type of filtering. Reducing the number of data points by keeping one record for every
two points proves to be ineffective in increasing R2. In climb phase, the R2 of Cz and Cm
models reach from 0.9882 to 0.9948 and from 0.7862 to 0.9606, respectively, after 10%
deviated data being removed, with the number of data points reduced from an original
number of 940 and 940 to 854 and 624, respectively.
The predicted normal force Cz and pitching moment Cm coefficients for climb and cruise
phases are presented in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5, respectively. The squared correlation coefficients
(R2) of Cz and Cm for these two phases are shown in Table 1.
Table 1 Squared Correlation Coefficients of Numerical Models
R2 for model Climb Cruise
R2 for Cz (%) 99.48 97.89
- 29 -
Fig. 6 presents the time history of aeroelastic effects on longitudinal aerodynamics in climb
phase within the time span of 900 sec. The aeroelastic effects on longitudinal aerodynamics
in cruise phase within the time span of 92 sec are presented in Fig. 7.
Based on static aeroelastic effects, deformation under aerodynamic loads for a conventional
normal aircraft structure would decrease
qz
C  and make qmC  more negative, in such a way
that the aerodynamic center would shift back [3]. This is also related to aeroelastic stability.
For example, if
qz
C  is positive, it means the wing would twist up under load, and the load
would further increase.
In Figs.7(b) and 7(c), it is seen that there is a large variation for both magnitudes of
qz
C  and qmC  in the severe turbulence encountered in the period time of t= 3927~3940 sec.
The magnitude of
qz
C  in cruise phase (Fig. 7b) is decreased in comparison with that of climb
phase (Fig. 6b), except the portion in turbulence encounter. The magnitude of
qz
C  after the
plunging motion becomes less negative, implying the wing structure having less twist-down
or more twist-up. Twist-down under high loadings is normal for a typical sweptback wing.
The magnitude of
qm
C  is in a nominal positive value in climb phase, as indicated in Fig. 6(c),
probably due to the strong wing wake effect on the horizontal tail. The magnitude of
qm
C  in
cruise phase is in more negative value in comparison with that of climb phase, as shown in
Fig. 7(c), except the portion in turbulence encounter. This implies that the static aeroelastic
response of the empennage of aircraft in cruise phase is larger than that of climb phase. Note
that for a new wing these two derivatives are nearly zero. If the magnitude is too large, no
matter whether the sign is positive or negative, the aeroelastic effect should be judged to be
undesirable. If the derivatives are positive, then there may be aeroelastic instability.
- 31 -
Fig. 7 Aeroelastic effects on longitudinal aerodynamics in cruise phase
within the time span of 92 sec
5. Concluding Remarks
The main objective of this paper is to present an evaluating method of structural integrity for
a twin-jet transport in severe atmospheric turbulence. The method was based on the flight
data extracted from the FDR to predict the aeroelastic effects. The aeroelastic effects of the
wing and empennage in severe atmospheric turbulence were significant due to the structural
deformation under high g loads in transonic flight, and were found to be larger than that in
climb phase without turbulence effects. Because this method employed the flight data stored
in the FDR, intrusive structural testing could be avoided. In essence, the normal force and
pitching moment derivatives were used to estimate qualitatively the aeroelastic effects on the
wing and the tail, respectively. This method could be used to assist airlines to monitor the
structural integrity as a complementary tool to improve aviation safety, and operational
efficiency.
Acknowledgments
This research project is sponsored by a grant, NSC 99-2221-E-157 -002-, from National
Science Council (NSC). The accomplishment in this project is part of the requirements set by
the Aviation Safety Council (ASC), Taiwan (R.O.C.).
References
[1]Cunningham, A., “The Role of Non-Linear Aerodynamics in Fluid-Structure Interaction,” 
AIAA Paper 98-2423, 1998.
[2] Lan, C. E., Chang, R. C., and Guan, W. L., "Evaluation of Structural Integrity of Transport
Aircraft Based on Flight Data," Journal of Aeronautics, Astronautics and Aviation, Series
A, Vol. 38, No. 3, Sept. 2006, pp. 159-166.
[3] Aviation Safety Council, Far Eastern Air Transport Flight EF 306, Boeing 757-200/Thai
Airways Flight TG659, Boeing 777-300, Nov 16, 2006, Aviation Final Report, August
2008.
[4] Chang, R. C., Ye, C. E., Lan, C. E., and Guan, W. L., "Flying Qualities for a Twin-Jet
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 超齡民航飛機結構完整性診斷與飛航安全探討
計畫主持人: 臧瑞傳
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-157-002- 學門領域: 航太科技
無研發成果推廣資料
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1. 兼任研究助林華偉參加『2010 航太學會學術研討會學生論文競賽』，榮獲全
國學生論文競賽佳作獎(第四名)。 
2. 獲國際航空安全調查委員會(ISASI)2011 年會邀請研究成果發表 
3. 兼任研究助李明豪及簡重文參加空中巴士舉辦 FYI (Fly Your Ideas)全球
競賽，榮獲晉級第二輪，國內媒體有大篇幅報導本團隊爭取進入法國航空展決
賽之新聞。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
