行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
計畫名稱：異質無線網路之視訊傳輸技術與應用--子計畫一：異質無線網路之群
播換手技術及其擬似環境之開發
計畫編號：NSC NSC 98-2221-E-008-063-
計畫主持人：國立中央大學 通訊工程學系 陳彥文
計畫自評
本子計畫配合其他子計畫之執行，針對 SVC 視訊進行群播時，如何透過群組及服務品質之 Trade off
對無線電資源做最有效之分配應用。除深入分析不同配置方式對頻寬資源之影響外，除提出服務群播
與傳送群播之關係及軟性群組(Soft group)觀念外，也利用 Willingness to pay 的啟發式觀念，決定頻道
分配之優先順序。所提方法透過模擬方式進一步瞭解其在資源耗損及疏通量之效能表現。據本人瞭
解，國際上應該尚未有利用此觀念進行 SVC 訊務群播之研究，本論文也已被 IEEE TENCON 2010 國
際研討會所接受，因此個人認為本研究成果具指標性之意義。
Study of SVC Traffic Multicast over WiMAX Network
(accepted by IEEE TENCON 2010)
ABSTRACT
This research studies the resource allocation algorithm for multicasting scalable video coding (SVC) source in
WiMax network. In order to effectively utilize the radio resources, the proposed scheme considers the channel
condition of each mobile station for the establishment of multicast groups. We considers that a service
multicast group, which receive the same service traffic simultaneously, can be divided into several delivery
multicast groups in WiMAX network for better radio resource utilization. And the delivery multicast group is
designed as a “soft-group”that can be flexibly arranged. The proposed algorithm divides the allocation
procedure into two parts in a heuristic way to reduce the computing complexity. The delivery multicast group
allocation part applies the willingness to pay and throughput comparison concepts to arrange the subchannel
for users. The SVC resource allocation part utilizes the divide and conquer approach to reduce the radio
resource consumption. The simulation results show that the proposed scheme can minimize the resource usage
according to each receiver's channel condition for better transmission efficiency and can provide fair video
quality as well.
摘要
本研究針對WiMax網路上提供 SVC群播時之無線電資源有效分配方法。為了提升資源使用效率，也將
行動節點之通道品質列入考慮，而一個同時接收相同資料的服務群播群組也可因通道狀況的不同而分成
多個傳送群播群組。除此之外，我們也提出軟性群組的概念應用於傳送群播群組中，讓無線電資源之分
配更具效率。傳送群播群組的通道選擇方式是採”競標”概念，而系統疏通量則是用切割並逐一克服方式
以降低運算複雜度。模擬結果顯示，所提方式能參照使用者之通道狀況，對無線電資源做有效的分配，
並同時提供不錯的視訊群播品質。
Keywords: WiMax, Scalable Video Coding, Multicast
1. Introduction
The internet has created new ways for people to
communicate with each other, share information and it
is even a significant source for entertainment. We have
observed a rapid growth of internet in the number of
users and also in the internet bandwidth since its birth.
Internet traffic is about doubling each year, thus it has
become “ubiquitous”, more and more devices are 
connected to the World Wide Web. Consequently, this
leads to the research and development of different mass
user’s channel condition of each subchannel into
account to achieve two-dimensional resource allocation,
first on frequency domain then on time domain. In
addition to the channel condition, the layer dependence
property of SVC traffic shall be considered for
effective resource utilization.
3. The Proposed Algorithm
As mentioned above, mobile stations may receive
different channel condition, mobile stations of the same
service multicast group may consider to be categorized
into several delivery multicast groups for the effective
radio resource allocation. For example, in Table I, it
specifies the number of bits can be carried per time slot
in the OFDMA frame for different modulations and
coding rates. If we want to multicast an IPTV program
to 4 mobile stations and two of them receive a very
good channel quality, which can use 64 QAM 3/4 for
modulation, in subchannel 1 and receive a very poor
channel quality, which can only use QPSK 3/4 for
modulation, in subchannel 5. On the contrary, the other
two mobile stations receive a very good channel
quality in in subchannel 5 and receive a very poor
channel condition in subchannel 1. Then we may need
6 slots to multicast 432 bits (432/72=6) to these four
mobile stations by using either subchannel 1 or 5. And
if we divide them into two delivery multicast groups in
separated subchannels, subchannel 1 and 5,
respectively, then it will only need four slots, two for
each delivery multicast group (432/216-2), by using 64
QAM 3/4.
Table I Spectrum Efficiency v.s. Modulation Coding
Schemes
Index Modulation Coding
rate
Bit/
slot
SNR
(db)
1
QPSK
1/2 48 5
2 3/4 72 8
3
16-QAM
1/2 96 10.5
4 3/4 144 14
5
64-QAM
2/3 196 18
6 3/4 216 20
The proposed method separates the problem into
two parts to reduce the computing complexity. First we
adopt the delivery multicast group allocation scheme to
allocate every user to its appropriate delivery group
according to individual channel condition. Second, the
SVC radio resource allocation scheme allocates which
layer should be transmitted at the appropriate
modulation-coding level for each delivery group. For
the convenience of the explanation, in addition to Table
I, we tabulate the notations used in the rest of the paper
in TableⅡ.
TableⅡ Notations of the Parameters Adopted
M Set of MCS threshold{5, 3, 1}
U
Maximum set of marked users in one
subchannel
G Set of U or A
A Set of users above specific MCS level
( , )T U R Maximum data can be carried in the
subchannel
U User set
R Available resource
i Applicable MCS level
iC Slots consumed by group i
iB Bits carried per slot by i
iN User subset by minimum group i
D Maximum data in a frame
(A) Delivery multicast group allocation scheme
The main concept in subchannel allocation scheme is
to gather users, who have similar channel condition,
into a delivery multicast group to enhance resource
utilization. Users with the similar channel condition at
some specific subchannels can fit the same modulation
coding scheme (MCS) without sacrificing spectrum
efficiency. In other words, each user may have his
better channel quality on some subchannels and the
proposed subchannel allocation scheme is to choose
the appropriate subchannel and to gather users into a
delivery multicast group so as to share the same radio
resource and to adopt as higher MCS level as possible.
The proposed subchannel allocation scheme starts
with the marking of the subchannel(s), which above a
certain MCS level, of each user. Users associated with
the same subchannel(s) are regarded as a delivery
multicast group. And it is noted that, due to the channel
condition changes from time to time, the delivery
multicast group is not a fixed multicast connection that
has a multicast connection identification (CID). The
delivery multicast group designed in our scheme is a
kind of soft group, i.e., each user has its own CID and
they are assigned to receive the same traffic burst
specified in the DL-MAP. Therefore, the delivery
multicast group may be rearranged depending on the
change of their channel condition. This approach
makes more flexible in users grouping and more
effective in resource utilization. In order to get higher
statistical gain, the subchannel with the most users has
the highest priority to use this subchannel. However,
there may be two or more than two subchannels have
the same number of marked users. The scheme
proposes the willingness to pay and throughput
comparison approaches for the two and more than two
equivalent number of marked users cases, respectively,
to decide the first priority subchannel(s) (delivery
multicast group) for allocation.
The willingness to pay concept is adopted to
determine how much valuable of a subchannel being
allocating to a delivery multicast group. The
willingness to pay is defined as the degree of penalty
(B) Radio resource allocation scheme for SVC
traffic
The proposed scheme arranges the delivery of
layered video traffic for a delivery multicast group in
its associated subchannel(s). The purpose of the
proposed scheme is to maximize the transmission
efficiency of SVC video under the constraint that each
user receives the base layer video traffic. Therefore we
first allocate radio resource to base layer traffic by
using the lowest MCS level of the users being applied
in that delivery group. And the remaining resource is
assigned to transmit the enhancement layers. As the
layered video has the layer dependency property, which
means higher layer is applicable only when lower layer
is received, the resource allocation of enhancement
layer shall consider how many enhancement layers
should be transmit and which modulation should be
adopt on each enhancement layer. For the remaining
radio resource, we first calculate the maximum
remaining bandwidth by considering the maximum
MCS level X of the users in the subchannel. It is noted
that only the users, who have received the lower layer,
are considered. The calculation of the maximum
remaining bandwidth is given in equation (1).
 
 
 
 
min
min min min
min
| |* * * ,when | | 1
| |* * *
, , * ,if *
0 5 | |
, ,else
,when | | >1
i i
i
i i
i i i
i
R
U C B U
C
U j C B
T U R T U N R j C R j C
j i
T U N R
U
Max
           
             


 (1)
The selection of appropriate MCS level to transmit
the each enhancement layer shall be constrained by the
above maximum remaining bandwidth and layer
dependency. The objective of our approach is to
arrange as much bandwidth in each subchannel as
possible under the constraints. Hence if there is no
adequate radio resource, the proposed scheme will
abort the users owned the lowest MCS level and try to
apply other users with higher MCS level to examine
whether higher system throughput can be achieved or
not. In this case some users, with the lowest MCS level,
are sacrificed. The procedure of the proposed radio
resource allocation scheme for SVC traffic is provided
in Figure 5. Steps 2 and 3 allocate radio resource to
transmit base layer to all users by using the lowest
MCS level to guarantee basic video quality. The divide
and conquer algorithm is adopted from step 4 to 6 to
obtain the maximum data volume of enhanced layers
can be allocated in the subchannel constrained by the
remaining radio resource. The proposed scheme
obtains the sub optimal solution under the computing
complexity constraint.
Figure 5 Procedure of radio resource allocation scheme
for SVC traffic
4. Experimental Simulations
In order to illustrate the performance of the proposed
algorithm, exhaustive simulations were carried out to
examine the throughput and the consumed radio
resource. The parameters used in simulations are listed
in Table III. The BS is assumed to be located at the
center of the cell and 50 MSs are uniformly
distribution in the cell. The channel condition of each
MS will change from frame to frame.
Table III Simulation Parameters
Carrier frequency 2.5 GHz
Cell radius 1.4 km
Permutation type PUSC
Channel bandwidth 10 MHz
FFT size 1024
BS power/subchannel 28 dbm
Frame duration 5 ms
Symbol duration 100.8 μs
BS height 32 m
MS height 1.5 m
Channel model ITU Veh-A
Path loss model COST231
Video layers
4 (1 base layer
3 enhancement
layers)
Data volume of each
video layer
230.4Kbps
The performance of the proposed algorithm are
compared with the best user first (BUF) [8]. The BUF
scheme adopts the hybrid and cross layer approach to
schedule the QoS traffic in WiMAX network. It
considers not only the efficient radio resource
and metropolitan area networks Part 16: Air
Interface for Broadband Wireless Access
Systems” Dec. 2008.
[3] J. She, F. Hou, P. H. Ho, and L. L. Xie, “IPTV 
over WiMAX: Key Success Factors, Challenges,
and Solutions”, IEEE Communication Magazine, 
Vol. 45, No. 8, pp. 87-93, Aug. 2007.
[4] Y. Xiao, X. Du, J. Zhang, F. Hu and S. Guizani,
“Internet Protocol Television (IPTV):The Kiler 
Application for the Next-Generation Internet”, 
IEEE Communication Magazine, Vol. 45, No. 11,
pp. 126-134, Nov. 2007.
[5] W. H. Kuo, T. Liu and W. Laio, “Utility-Based
Resource Allocation for Layer-Encoded IPTV
Multicast in IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX) Wireless
Networks”, Communications  IEEE  
International Conference on, pp. 1754-1759,
June 2007.
[6] R. G. Cheng, W. J. Wang and C. L. Chu,
“Dynamic Rate Adjustment (DRA) Algorithm for
WiMAX Systems Supporting Multicast Video
Services”, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pp.
379-388, 2007.
[7] H. Y. Chi, C. W. Lin, Y. C. Chen and C. M.
Chen, “Optimal Rate Alocation for Scalable 
Video Multicast over WiMAX”, Circuits and
Systems, ISCAS IEEE International Symposium
on, pp. 1838-1841, May 2008.
[8] Y. W. Chen, Y. Y. Chu, and Y. B. Yu, “A Hybrid 
Uplink Traffic Scheduling in IEEE 802.16
Network”, accepted and to be published in IEEE
VTS APWCS 2010, May, 2010.
筆者依大會規定，準備約 30 張 Power Point，進行約 20 分鐘之論文發表。
(因相片檔過大，筆者在大會 present 之相片刪除)
這是筆者第一次參加在這區域所舉辦的國際研討會，會議地點在加德滿都的 Hyatt
Regency Kathmandu Nepal 飯店，離加德滿都市中心約 30 分鐘的車程，這應該是
加德滿都最好的飯店之一，從旅館的房間就可以看見遠處覆蓋著白雪的喜馬拉雅
群峰，景色不錯，但其上網費用也相當昂貴，24 小時的上網費大約合新台幣 500
元左右。
二、 與會心得
此次非常感謝在國科會之經費補助能參與此次 AHICI 2009 國際學術研討會，本會
議主題非常廣泛，與會者所發表之論文具一定之水準，研究成果上也強調實務的
重要性，這對從事學術研究的筆者而言，可經由聆聽與討論的過程中得以瞭解相
關領域的研究發展情形，獲益匪淺。筆者除參加整個研討會及主辦單位的一些活
動外，也有到其市中心瞭解此古都之特色。會議結束後，也接受主辦單位 NCIT
之邀請到該校
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
筆者在會議結束後，也接受主辦單位 NCIT 之邀請到該校進行參訪，除拜訪該校
校長 Prof. Rajendra P. Adhikari 外，還參觀他們的一些實驗室及與學生座談。覺得
比較特別的是，該校實驗室都有相當多的蓄電池，而且引以為傲，因為當地的電
力系統非常不穩，常停電，市區商店自備蓄電池也是一種常態。這對目前全球正
大談節能減碳，好像有點奇特。
四、 建議
一般而言，中小型學術研討會比較能對特定主題有較深入的討論，也有較多時間
和與會學者互動。因此，與參加大型研討會相比，在參加此中小型研討會，心態
上應做不同的調適，多主動與他國學者互動，方能從與會過程中有較具體的收穫。
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容
- 本次大會會議論文集光碟
- 近期論文徵稿傳單
六、 其他
本人發表之論文附錄如後 (因大會論文集 PDF File Size 太大，故採用原文)
Anchored mobility is overviewed in Section 2.
Section 3 details the proposed scheme. IP header
overhead induced by the proposed scheme is
analyzed and presented in Section 4. In section 5,
we conclude this paper and mention the future
work.
REVIEW of ASN Anchored Mobility
In this section, the procedure of ASN anchored
mobility is briefly described. The HO procedures,
provided in the WiMAX specification [3, 4], consist
of two phases, HO preparation phase and HO action
phase. The HO preparation phase is depicted in
Figure 1. It shows that a mobile station (MS) sends
a MOB-MSHO_REQ message to the serving ASN
to initiate handover. And the serving ASN sends the
R4 HO_Req message to one or more target ASNs
for response. Here we take the scenario of AK
context retrieval and path pre-registration initiated
by target ASN. So the following step is context
retrieval procedure between target ASN and
authenticator ASN. Then the data path
pre-registration between target ASN and anchor
ASN is performed so that the MS can immediately
receive data forwarded by the anchor ASN when it
attaches to the serving ASN. Both of these
procedures are represented by wider arrows in
Figure 1. However, they are all with three-way
handshaking flows. Then HO_Rsp and HO_Ack are
followed to confirm the process. It is noted that data
path pre-registration and AK context retrieval
during this phase are optional. However, if they are
not completed here, they shall be performed at the
following action phase and longer handover delay
will be introduced.
Figure 1. Handover preparation phase procedures [4]
Figure 2. Handover action phase procedures [4]
The HO action phase is depicted in Figure 2. The
MS sends a MOB_HO-IND to the serving ASN to
inform which candidate BS has been chosen as the
target BS. Upon receiving MOB_HO-IND, the
serving ASN sends an R4 HO_Cnf message to the
target ASN and the target ASN sends back an R4
HO_Ack message to the serving ASN. If the context
retrieval procedure was not done during the
preparation phase, the target ASN initiates a context
request procedure with the authenticator ASN.
Meanwhile, if data path pre-registration procedure
was not performed during preparation phase, it shall
be completed at this moment. After completing the
above procedures, the MS initiates network re-entry
with the target ASN. Then the target ASN begins
data path registration procedure with the anchor
ASN. Upon network re-entry completion, the target
ASN initiates CMAC key count update procedure
and sends an R4 HO_Complete message to the
serving ASN. Until this moment the handover is
successfully finished. Finally the release procedures
with the old and unselected ASNs are followed.
The Proposed Scheme
From the handover procedures described in the
previous section, the packets to the MS will arrive
at the anchor ASN first, and the anchor ASN will
address and transport the packets correctly to the
correspondent node.
Figure 4. Packets flow sent from MS
Next, when looking at the packet flow transmitting
from CSN network to the MS, shown in Figure 5,
the anchor ASN will encrypt the data and transmit
them by tunneling to the serving ASN. However,
the serving ASN of the proposed scenario is not
provided with the decryption capability, so it can
not decrypt the encrypted IP payload and, therefore,
can not extract the destination IP address of MS. As
a result, the classifier of serving ASN could not
know which CID shall be applied. In order to deal
with this issue, we proposed a method to convey
MS IP information within the IP header, and the
serving ASN can use this information to find the
right destination. We detail the method for IPv4 and
IPv6 respectively as follows.
Figure 5. Packets flow received to MS
IPv4 [5]
According to IPv4 header format, the option field of
the IP header is defined to convey the required MS
information to the serving ASN. The option field
consists of three subfields, option type (8 bits),
option length (8 bits), and option data (variable
length). In order to deliver MS ID, the format of
option field is defined as follows.
 Copied (1 bit): 1–option data used
 Option Class (2 bits): 1–management
 Option Number (5 bits): 0–the proposed scheme
 Option Length (8 bits): 0x08–8bytes
 Option Data (48 bits): MS ID
IPv6 [6]
IPv6 header format allows to having extension
header. Therefore, the specific extension header for
the proposed ASN anchored mobility is applied as
shown in Figure 6.
 Next Header (8 bits): 138–the proposed scheme
 Header Extension Length (8 bits): 0x08–8bytes
 Options (48 bits): MS ID
Figure 6. Modified IPv6 header format for the proposed scheme
To sum up, for either IPv4 or IPv6 we can bring MS
ID in their IP header by re-defining some field.
Hence the serving ASN can use the MS ID to
identify the destination MS which the packet is
going to deliver to.
Analysis
It is obvious that the proposed scheme can simplify
the context retrieval and CMAC key count update
procedures and, therefore, the handover latency can
be improved. In addition, only the anchor ASN
holds the key information, and the security threat
can be minimized.
Although extra overhead is necessary for the
encapsulation of packets from anchor ASN to the
serving ASN, the establishment of security
association during handover can be reduced. From
connection control point of view, it is worthy to be
implemented. For probing into the effect of the
overhead, we do some calculation for IPv4 and IPv6
in terms of different payload length. The results for
表 Y04
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳彥文 計畫編號：98-2221-E-008-063- 
計畫名稱：異質無線網路之視訊傳輸技術與應用--子計畫一：異質無線網路之群播換手技術及其擬似
環境之開發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 50% 
人次 
配合就業方案，原
聘碩士級專任助
理在就職期間已
找到適合之工作
而離職，後雖努力
徵才，但未能找到
適合之專任技術
助理。(表格無法
填0.5, 核定11人
月, 實際 6人月)
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
