 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期末報告 
生物拍撲飛行之流體動力研究 
Fluid Dynamics Study of Bio-Flapping Flight 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-035-087-MY3 
全期執行期限：97年 8月 01日至 100年 07月 31日 
第三期執行期間：99年 8月 01日至 100年 7月 31日 
計畫主持人 ：宋齊有 (逢甲大學航太與系統工程學系教授) 
協同研究人員：楊鏡堂 (台灣大學機械工程學系教授) 
研究助理：蘇建元、徐瑜韓、吳修豪、楊孟翰 
合作計畫之研究人員(無支本計畫津貼)：章聿珩、丁上杰、劉玠成 
 
一、中文摘要 
本研究之目的是從流體力學的觀點切入，探討生物之高效率飛行模式。第三年期進行之
工作包括生物自由飛行流場之 PIV量測、空氣動力估算，以及升力產生之機制。懸停飛行雀
類 (Passerines) 開展了一種非慣見的腹前翼拍擊以產生升力。研究中藉尾流的量化觀測、運
動分析以及暫態升力的估算以剖析翼之腹前拍擊在雀鳥非對稱懸停飛行中之生物力學角色。
在翼下拍 (Downstroke) 時，腹前翼拍擊先減緩後強化升力產生，但因強化高於減緩，其對升
力產生之淨效應為正。再則，由下拍階段末所產生紥實之升力增強，可推論此腹前拍擊補償
了一上拍(Upstroke)階段之零升力。總體而言，本研究之發現與觀察解釋了腹前翼拍擊的氣動
力功能，並對這類非仿效蜂鳥懸停的鳥類運動模式提供了生物力學之洞察力。 
 
關鍵詞：生物飛行、拍撲機制、渦流理論、空氣動力學、PIV 量測 
 
ABSTRACT 
The objective of this study is to explore high efficient bioflight in the fluid dynamics viewpoint. The 
tasks in this third year include PIV measurements of flow field around a free-flight bird, evaluation 
of aerodynamic force, and the mechanism of lift production. An unconventional mechanism of 
ventral clap is exploited by hovering passerines to produce lift. Quantitative visualization of the 
wake flow, analysis of kinematics, and evaluation of the transient lift force were conducted to 
dissect the biomechanical role of the ventral clap in the asymmetrical hovering flight of passerines. 
The ventral clap can first abate and then augment lift production during the downstroke; the net 
effect of the ventral clap on lift production is, however, positive because the extent of lift 
augmentation is greater than the extent of lift abatement. Moreover, the ventral clap is inferred to 
compensate for the zero lift production of the upstroke because the clapping wings induce a 
substantial elevation of the lift force at the end of the downstroke. Overall, our findings and 
observations shed light on the aerodynamic function of the ventral clap, and offer biomechanical 
insight into how a bird hovers without kinematically mimicking hovering hummingbirds. 
Keywords: Bioflight, Flapping mechanisms, Vortex theory, Aerodynamics, PIV measurement  
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The sophisticated flight abilities of birds, bats and insects, in particular their maneuvering agility, 
have long intrigued observers. Much research has been undertaken to dissect the associated 
 3
flying process that can generate lift in asymmetrical hovering. We demonstrate that the ventral clap 
is an unconventional, biomechanical mechanism of lift production that functionally accounts for the 
hovering capability of a White-eye. Our observations and findings provide useful insight into how a 
bird can hover without kinematically mimicking a hummingbird. 
 
Fig1. a Consecutive images of downstroke motions of a hovering White-eye. The blue arrows 
denote the chronological order of these images. b Schematic sketches illustrating three kinematic 
phases characteristic of the ventral-clap stage of a downstroke. The red lines represent the chord 
lines of clapping wings, with triangles denoting the leading edge of the dorsal wing surface. The 
dashed vertical lines indicate the midline of the bird’s body. The dashed arrows signify the 
directions of motion of each wing.  
 
2. MATERIAL AND METHODS 
2.1 Measurement and analysis of kinematics and wake dynamics 
In this work, we chose passerines (Japanese White-eye, Zosterops japonicus) as experimental 
subjects. The morphological parameters (including body mass and wing length) for the passerines in 
our experiments are presented in Table 1. We experimentally quantified and analyzed both the 
kinematics of the wing motion and the wake flow fields of hovering White-eyes. Two synchronized 
high-speed video cameras (X-Stream TM Vision 5, IDT Inc.) from orthogonal viewing directions 
served to acquire images (frame rate = 1000 Hz) necessary for analysis of the 3D kinematics (the 
mean wingbeat frequency of the birds was 24.37 Hz). The reconstruction of three-dimensional 
trajectories and associated kinematic analysis of the flapping wings were implemented with 
commercial software (MotionPro X Studio, IDT, together with programs written in Matlab, version 
7.0, Matworks). 
 5
estimated to be less than 4 % of the true values. The DPIV flow-field snapshots presented below are 
for a single wing stroke rather than averages over multiple strokes.  
In addition to the DPIV camera (frame rate = 1000 Hz), a synchronized motion camera 
simultaneously monitored and recorded the motion of a hovering White-eye. Before the DPIV 
measurements, each individual bird was placed in the experimental chamber for about one hour to 
become accustomed to the environment. During the experiment, a White-eye was allowed to fly 
spontaneously in the experimental chamber. A White-eye was regarded as hovering if the 
displacement of its eye (evaluated from the acquired images) was less than 0.2 cm for four 
consecutive wingbeat cycles.  
The White-eyes flew spontaneously in the experimental chamber, but the laser light sheet was 
spatially fixed. For an evaluation of the lift force based on physical quantities of the vortices 
generated around the leading edge and wing tip of the bird wings, the experimental White-eyes 
were trained to perch initially on a slender rod situated near the laser light sheet (thickness = 0.3 
cm). In this way, when a White-eye flew and hovered, the laser light sheet (as a frontal plane) was 
typically approximately parallel to, and coincident with, a plane intersecting both left and right 
shoulders of the hovering White-eye, with a spatial deviation about 0.5 cm (Fig. 3).  
In this work, the wall effect associated with the experimental chamber was small and negligible. 
The bird size was comparatively smaller than the dimension of the experimental chamber. There 
was no outflow of air at the bottom of the experimental chamber; nevertheless, the pressure and 
recirculation of air near the bottom of the experimental chamber did not affect the bird's flight 
behavior. The reason lies in that the bird size was small and that during the experiments the bird 
was typically hovering at a height at least 50 cm above the bottom of the experimental chamber. 
Accordingly the aerodynamic phenomena revealed from our experiments for a hovering White-eye 
are valid and subjected to negligible impact of the wall effect. 
 
Fig. 3 Schematic illustrations of the relative position of the laser light sheet with respect to the 
hovering bird for the frontal-plane measurement. The left and right panels are respectively for the 
view of the motion camera (x-y plane) and DPIV camera (y-z plane).   
2.2 Evaluation of transient lift force 
In research on the biomechanics and fluid dynamics of animal locomotion in fluids, two methods 
based on wake topology have been commonly applied to evaluate the locomotive forces. The first is 
primarily associated with the Kutta-Joukowski lift theorem (Hedenström et al. 2006; Rosén et al. 
2007; Spedding & Hedenström 2009):  
              UL bΓ=  * ρ ,                                    (2.1) 
in which L* is the lift per unit span of a wing moving at a constant speed U, ρ the fluid density, and 
　b the circulation bound to the wing. Circulation represents a direct measure of the rotational 
strength of a vortex (Saffman 1992), and is defined as the line integral of the velocity tangent to a 
closed path encompassing a vortex. According to Kelvin’s circulation theorem (Saffman 1992), the 
 7
As is explained later, for a hovering White-eye, the vortex-loop circulation (ΓL) is deemed 
equivalent to the circulation of the vortex shed from the trailing edge of the wings executing the 
ventral clap. Moreover, the vortex loop generated by the White-eye was assumed to be circular and 
symmetric with respect to the bird body. For the frontal-plane measurement, the laser light sheet 
was regarded as the vertical symmetric plane of the vortex ring produced by the bird.  
To determine accurately the location of the centers of vortices (on the frontal plane) constituting a 
vortex loop, we employed a λ2-method that is in practice suitable and convenient for the precise 
detection of vortex cores distributed in animal wake flow fields (Ting & Yang 2008; Ting & Yang 
2009). The distance from the identified vortex center on the frontal plane to the vertical mid-plane 
of the bird body was treated as the radius of the vortex loop according to which vortex-loop area, A, 
was computed.  
 
Fig. 5 Flow fields measured on the frontal plane (a) and parasagittal plane (b) for a hovering 
White-eye, manifesting the formation of a vortex-ring wake through downstroke. The thick red 
arrows signify the rotational direction of the vortices constituting the vortex ring. The thick black 
arrows denote the strong downward jet produced by the downstroke.  
 
3. RESULTS 
3.1. Wing kinematics and morphology parameters 
A hovering White-eye is commonly observed to execute a ventral clap at the latter stage of a 
downstroke (Fig. 1a). This ventral-clap motion comprises primarily three kinematic phases (Fig. 1b). 
In phase 1, the two wings approach each other, while the wing’s trailing edge concurrently rotates 
slightly with respect to the wing’s leading edge. Proceeding into phase 2, the two wings are drawn 
closer to each other in preparation for the final clap. In phase 3, the two wings clap and the trailing 
edges of the wings are in contact with each other. The three kinematic phases were readily 
recognizable and specifically defined as the instants at which peak values of the transient lift force 
occur (see section 3.3 for detailed explanation). 
Fig. 6a-e shows a representative sample of the wing-tip traces of both wings (relative to a bird 
frame of reference fixed to the beak) throughout a wing-beat cycle. During the downstroke both 
wings clearly sweep anteroventrally (i.e. forward and downward) and execute a ventral clap at the 
latter stage of the downstroke. This ventral clap is readily recognizable from the coincidence of the 
wing-tip traces of both wings in phase 3 (Fig. 6d).  
The ventral clap of wings during a downstroke is unique to the asymmetrical hovering flight of a 
White-eye. Fig. 6f exhibits the variation of the wing-tip velocity during a downstroke; the wing-tip 
velocity attains its maximum about phase 1 and then decreases nearly monotonically until phase 3. 
The kinematic parameters (including the wingbeat frequency and the downstroke fraction) of the 
hovering White-eyes are presented in Table 1. The mean wingbeat frequency was 24.1 Hz; the mean 
downstroke fraction (defined as the temporal fraction of the downstroke within a wingbeat cycle) 
 9
 
Fig. 7 Definition of angular parameters for the wing-beat motions. a-d All above angles begin to 
verify when the wing initiates a downstroke. a 　1 is the angle of wing flapping up and down. The 
flapping angle refers to the angle swept by a flapping wing for a frontal view. b 　2 is the angle of 
wing twist. The twisting angle shows the variation during wing twist along the leading edge of the 
wing from the shoulder joint. c 　3 is the angle of wing fold. This folding angle refers to the angle 
formed between the front arm and hand wing. d 　4 and 　5 are both angles of wing sweep. 　4 
represents the angle of wing sweep for the front arm. 　5 represents the angle of wing sweep for the 
wing tip. These sweeping angles of two kinds show how the wing moves front and back.  
 
Fig. 8 Variation of flapping angle, folding angle, twisting angle and sweeping angle within a 
wing-beat cycle. (a) and (b) are respectively for the right and left wings. Error bars represent the 
S.E.M. (N=35).  
 11
(Fig. 9b,e); this upward jet was essentially constituted by the air mass that was upwardly squeezed 
from the diminishing gap between the clapping wings. The LEV remained attached to the leading 
edge of both wings; the fluid jets between the counter-rotating LEV and TEV strengthened and 
became more downwardly oriented. Moreover, during phase 2 the clapping wings also initiated the 
formation of an additional downward jet situated in the region between and beneath the wings.In 
phase 3, the additional fluid jet with a downward orientation was completely formed underneath the 
already clapped wings (Fig. 9c,e). This additional downward jet was constituted by the air mass that 
was squeezed and ejected downwardly from the gap nearby the trailing edges of the clapping wings. 
The LEV on both wings concurrently dissipated gradually and ultimately vanished. The additional 
downward jet and the two fluid jets between counter-rotating LEV and TEV continuously 
convected downstream and eventually merged into a single strong downward jet of a much 
increased dimension (Fig. 9d). In Fig. 10, we show flow fields acquired on the parasagittal plane for 
a hovering White-eye. These flow fields also manifest the LEV, TEV and downward jet formed and 
shed by the downstroking wings executing ventral clap.   
After phase 3, only the strong downward jet and the TEV shed from the wings were left in the far 
wake beneath the bird. Through inspection of wake flow fields on both the frontal and parasagittal 
planes, all TEV were found to form a vortex loop (see inset of Fig. 11a), which is theoretically 
expected in terms of Helmholtz’s second theorem dictating that a vortex filament cannot terminate 
in a fluid, but must extend to the boundaries of the fluid or form a closed contour (Saffman 1992). 
From a three-dimensional perspective, the strong downward jet and the vortex loop jointly 
constituted a vortex ring. The formation of this vortex ring with a strong downward jet indicates 
directly that the bird imparted downward momentum to the air and consequently obtained an 
upward reaction force, in terms of Newton’s first law of motion.  
 
 
Fig.10 Hovering Japanese White-eye wake flow fields on a parasagittal plane. Color contours 
represent the vorticity distribution of the flow fields. a-c Near-wake flow fields pertaining to 
kinematic phases of the ventral clap; the dotted and dashed curves mark the outline of the bird. d 
The far-wake flow field beneath a hovering Japanese White-eye after phase 3. a-d Thick red arrows 
depict the trends of the flow motion. In a-d, velocity vectors were not acquired in some regions 
because of overexposure of the DPIV images or momentary obstruction of the DPIV light sheet by 
the bird.   
 13
 
Fig. 12 Variation of the ratio of lift force to bird weight versus normalized time of wingbeat cycles 
consisting of the downstroke and upstroke, with the three kinematic phases being respectively 
indicated. The solid line represents the polynomial regression of the empirical data points. The 
dotted line connecting the data pints serves as visual guidance for the trend of variation. The red 
line denotes the cycle-averaged mean lift force (= 85.88% of the bird weight). Error bars represent 
the S.E.M. (N=35). 
 
essentially acquired from flow measurements made on two-dimensional planes asymmetrically 
intersecting the vortex ring. The structure of the bird wake flow fields is three-dimensional, and the 
vortex-ring model for transient lift-force evaluation is derived essentially based on a perfectly 
symmetrical 3D vortex-ring. With flow measurements on merely two-dimensional laser light-sheet 
planes, some quantitative information of the 3D wake flow fields is doubtless lost; this condition 
would inevitably cause inaccuracies of the evaluated lift forces. Although there are inevitable 
inaccuracies, the evaluated transient lift forces still render useful information for understanding the 
aerodynamic characteristics of wings executing ventral clap.  
After the ventral clap, the generated vortex loop dissipated gradually and remained observable 
during the upstroke. We tried to evaluate the lift force according to the remaining vortex loop for 
the upstroke interval. The temporal variations of the ratio of lift force to bird weight for the upstroke 
interval are shown in Fig. 12; the empirical data for the upstroke interval oscillate greatly, with a 
mean value -3.44% ± 0.02% (mean ± s.e.m, N=35). It is difficult to identify the trend of variation of 
the lift force during the upstroke. If the mean lift forces evaluated during the downstroke and 
upstroke are summed, a cycle-averaged mean lift force amounting to 85.88 % of the bird weight is 
derived.  
 
 
 15
here has been reported for flying insects (Ellington 1984; Norberg 2002). It is at present unclear 
why a hovering White-eye occasionally chooses to execute a near ventral clap. We speculate that 
the execution of a near ventral clap might be related to a dynamic manipulation of the body posture.  
4.2. Transient vortex-ring model 
In this work, we have employed a transient vortex-ring model to evaluate transient values of the 
lift force throughout the downstroke period. The temporal variation of the ratio of lift force to bird 
weight was accordingly obtained. The downstroke-averaged lift force computed on averaging the 
transient values over the downstroke period is 89.32 % ± 0.25 % (mean ± S.E.M., N=35) of the bird 
weight. The computed upstroke-averaged lift force is -3.44 % ± 0.02 % (mean ± S.E.M., N=35) of 
the bird weight.  
Although a mean lift force amounting to -3.44% of the bird weight was evaluated for the 
upstroke interval, the upstroke essentially generates no vortex or positive lift force for weight 
support. The lift force that we evaluated for the upstroke interval is according to the remaining 
vortex loop that is essentially created by the downstroke. In the present work, the downstroke is 
considered to be the only source of lift production. 
The downstroke-averaged lift force is expected just to counteract the bird weight, satisfying the 
zero net force condition for a hovering bird during the downstroke. Given the mean value (89.32 % 
of the bird weight) of this downstroke-averaged lift force, the transient vortex-ring model appears to 
have rendered a roughly reasonable and acceptable result. The 11 % deficit of the mean lift force for 
weight support might arise in several ways. First, the measurement errors of fluid velocity inherent 
to DPIV (Raffel et al. 2007) can result in a flawed computation of spatial derivatives (e.g. vorticity) 
and integral quantities such as the circulation that is involved in the formula for lift force evaluation 
(see equation 2.4). Additionally, the instability and laminar-to-turbulence transition of a vortex ring 
can result in an underestimated circulation (Tytell & Ellington 2003). Second, in this work we have 
assumed that the vortex loop generated by the White-eye is circular and symmetric with respect to 
the bird body. A vortex loop, is however, unlikely to be perfectly circular; instead, a vortex loop 
might sometimes be elliptical. Third, the laser light sheet (as a frontal plane) was situated at slightly 
distinct locations with respect to the hovering bird for each round of DPIV-measurements in our 
experiments. This positional inconsistency of the light sheet is unavoidable because the White-eyes 
were allowed to hover spontaneously during the experiments. Moreover, the laser light sheet also 
intersected the clapping wings at varying spanwise positions during the downstroke. There are, 
however, intrinsic spanwise differences in the circulation of vortices shed by a moving wing. 
According to the lifting-line theory for finite-span wings (Guermond 1990), the circulation of a 
chordwise wing section clearly decreases as its distance to the wing tip decreases. The 
downstroke-averaged lift force can thus be considered as also a spanwise-averaged result. To 
conclude, these sources are largely responsible for the 11 % deficit of the mean lift force evaluated 
in our experiments.  
There seems to be no bird-flight literature that presents transient lift forces evaluated from wake 
measurements. Instead, it is common in the literature to show time-averaged (for one or several 
wingbeat cycles) lift forces evaluated from downstream far-wake measurements (Hedenström et al. 
2006; Rosén et al. 2007; Spedding & Hedenström 2009). In the literature addressing the propulsion 
of aquatic animals (Dabiri 2005; Dabiri et al. 2006; Peng et al. 2007; Peng & Dabiri 2008), the 
investigators have demonstrated the feasibility and efficacy of a Lagrangian method to deduce 
transient locomotive forces by computing temporal differentiation of the momentum of the vortices 
and the vortex added-mass in the wake. The transient vortex-ring model proposed in this work is 
conceptually analogous to the Lagrangian method, but without considering the possible contribution 
of the vortex added mass to the lift force. The added-mass effect accounts for the resistance forces 
exerted by the surrounding fluid medium on an accelerating or decelerating object. During the 
downstroke, the wings of a hovering White-eye undergo an initial acceleration followed by a 
 17
REFERENCES 
Alexander D E (2002) Nature’s flyers. Baltimore USA and London UK: The Johns Hopkins University 
Press.  
Cooter J, Baker PS (1977) Weis-Fogh clap and fling mechanism in Locusta. Nature 269:53–54. 
Dabiri JO (2005) On the estimation of swimming and flying forces from wake measurements. J Exp Biol 
208:3519–3532. 
Dabiri J O, Colin SP, Costello JH (2006) Fast-swimming hydromedusae exploit velar kinematics to form an 
optimal vortex wake. J Exp Biol 209: 2025–2033. 
Dickinson M H, Lehmann FO, Sane SP (1999) Wing rotation and the aerodynamic basis of insect flight. 
Science 284:1954–1960. 
Ellington CP (1984) The aerodynamics of hovering insect flight. IV. Aerodynamic mechanisms. Philos Trans 
R Soc Lond B 305: 79–113. 
Guermond JL (1990) A generalized lifting-line theory for curved and swept wings. J Fluid Mech 211: 
497–513. 
Hedenström A, Rosén M, Spedding GR (2006) Vortex wakes generated by robins Erithacus rubecula during 
free flight in a wind tunnel. J R Soc Interface 3:263–276. 
Hedenström A, Spedding GR (2008) Beyond robins: aerodynamic analysis of animal flight. J R Soc Interface 
5:595–601. 
Hedrick TL, Cheng B, Deng X (2009) Wingbeat time and the scaling of passive rotational damping in 
flapping flight. Science 324:252–255. 
Johansson LC, Wolf M, Hedenström A (2010) A quantitative comparison of bird and bat wakes. J R Soc 
Interface 7:61–66. 
Lehmann LO (2004) The mechanism of lift enhancement in insect flight. Naturwissenschaften 91: 101–122. 
Muijres FT, Johansson LC, Barfield R, Wolf M, Spedding GR, Hedenström A (2008) Leading-edge vortex 
improves lift in slow-flying bats. Science 319:1250–1253. 
Norberg UML (1990) Vertebrate Flight. Springer-Verlag, Berlin. 
Norberg UML (2002) Structure, form, and function of flight in engineering and the living world. J Morph 
252:52–81.  
Peng J, Dabiri JO (2008) An overview of a Lagrangian method for analysis of animal wake dynamics. J Exp 
Biol 211:280–287 
Peng J, Dabiri JO, Madden PG, Lauder GV (2007) Non-invasive measurement of instantaneous forces during 
aquatic locomotion: a case study of the bluegill sunfish pectoral fin. J Exp Biol 210:685–698. 
Pesavento U, Wang ZJ (2009) Flapping wing flight can save aerodynamic power compared to steady flight. 
Phys Rev Lett 103:118102. doi: 10.1103 
Raffel M, Willert CE, Wereley ST, Kompenhans J (2007) Particle Image Velocimetry: A Practical Guide. 
2nd ed. Springer, New York. 
Rosén M, Spedding GR, Hedenström A (2007) Wake structure and wingbeat kinematics of a house-martin 
Delichon urbica. J R Soc Interface 4:659–668. 
Saffman PG (1992) Vortex Dynamics. Cambridge University Press, New York USA. 
Spedding GR, Hedenström A (2009) PIV-based investigations of animal flight. Exp Fluids 46: 749–763. 
Spedding GR, Rayner JMV, Pennycuick CJ (1984) Momentum and energy in the wake of a pigeon 
(Columba livia) in slow flight. J Exp Biol 111:81–102. 
Srygley RB,Thomas ALR (2002) Unconventional lift-generating mechanisms in free-flying butterflies. 
Nature 420:660–664. 
Stamhuis EJ, Nauwelaerts S (2005) Propulsive force calculations in swimming frogs. II. Application of a 
vortex ring model to DPIV data. J Exp Biol 208:1445–1451. 
Taylor PM (1972) Hovering behavior by house finches. The Condor 74:219–221. 
  
 1
2011.05.08-11, Amesterdam, Netherland 
出席「2011國際膠體與材料會議」會後報告 
(2011年5月8-11日，荷蘭阿姆斯特丹) 
宋齊有 
逢甲大學航太與系統工程系教授 
 
一、 前言 
2011國際膠體與材料會議 (2011 Colloids and Materials) 為一提供來自全世界的研究
者、科學家與實務工作者一個交換經驗與討論未來研究方向之多領域論壇。今(2011)年係此
一會議之首屆，由知名國際學術出版公司Elsevier主辦。此一國際會議時間為2011年5月8日
至2011年5月11日；會議地點設於荷蘭阿姆斯特丹市區內水壩廣場 (Dam Square) 附近，極
富盛名之五星級大旅館 NH Grand Hotel Krasnapolsky。此次會議主題涵蓋材料、化工、傳
輸現象、奈微米、生醫等各個領域之科技發展與應用。許多與新興科技相關之項目是很吸
引人的，此一會議將各相關領域之學者專家齊聚一堂交換研究經驗與心得，顯得很有時代
意義。 
此會議技術內容涵蓋各領域之細目臚列如下： 
• Green nano and colloid chemistry 
• Biomaterials, biocolloids and biomimetics 
• Nanomedicines, diagnostics and nanotoxicology 
• Responsive colloids and materials – photo, electro, pH- and magneto-responsive fluids 
• Nanomaterials and colloidal materials 
• Novel solvents for colloids – ionic liquids, supercritical fluids 
• Microfluidics with colloidal systems 
• Soft matter, surfactants, polymers and dendrimers 
• Nanocatalysis and reaction control 
• Pharma- and agrochemical colloids and materials 
• Atmospheric aerosols 
• Interfacial electrochemistry and sensing 
• Wetting, supersolvophobic surfaces and capillarity 
• Interfacial processes, transport and adsorption 
• Novel phenomena and techniques 
大會對來稿接受與否有一定的標準，其投稿須知中明文規定無原創性就拒絕(All 
abstracts will be refereed and a criterion of rejection will be lack of originality.)。我近年研究有
Microfluidics, interfacial and transport processes, aerosols, wetting and hydrophobicity，因此與
  
 3
2011.05.08-11, Amesterdam, Netherland 
6. Steve Granick, University of Illinois, Urbana, USA，講題為：Janus Colloids 
7. Masatake Haruta, Tokyo Metropolitan University, Japan，講題為：Preparation of Supported 
Gold Clusters for Green Chemistry 
8. Eric Kaler, Stony Brook University, NY, USA，講題為：Structure, rheology, and network 
formation in wormlike micelle-nanoparticle mixtures 
9. Luis Liz-Marzán, University of Vigo, Spain，講題為：Growth and Directional Assembly of 
Anisotropic Gold Nanoparticles 
10. Matt Lynch, Procter & Gamble, Ross, OH, USA，講題為：Delayed Failure of Polymer Gels 
11. Gabor Somorjai, University of California, Berkeley, USA，講題為：Colloid Chemistry 
Foundation of Nanocatalysis. The Molecular View 
12. Matt Trau, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia，講題為：Biomarkers & 
Nanotechnology: New Approaches to Preventative, Personalised and “At Home” Medicine 
13. Theo van de Ven, McGill University, Montreal, Canada，講題為：Multilayer polymer 
nanotubes 
14. Xi Zhang, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China，講題為：Superamphiphiles for Controlled 
Self-assembly and Disassembly 
以上各場邀請之專題演講均為膠體與材料相關領域中重要或目前極具意義之議題。聆
聽專題演講(如：Prof. Chmelka講Order and Disorder in Nanoscale Materials)，對於了解目前
奈米材料研究方向與進程，以及觸發新研究之靈感極有助益。 
我的海報論文被安排於5月9日傍晚18:30-20:00那ㄧ梯次展示並當場回答詢問。此一研
究「Analysis of Electrokinetic Energy Conversion in Hydrophobic Microchannels with 
Slip-Dependent Zeta Potential (具滑移相關zeta電位之疏水性微通道中電動力能量轉換分析)」
為目前研究頗受矚目之項目。本研究探討微奈米通道流動受壁面性質與介面現象對微奈通
道型電動力電池內傳輸與能量轉換之影響，可作為電動力電池微奈通道材料設計之參考。
我的論文張貼展示的90分鐘時間內共有國內三位、國外(美、加、法、印)四位與會者來到海
報前詢問與討論，算是頗覺欣慰。Journal of Colloid and Interfacial Science (JCIS) 的Editor
還邀請我將此文投稿JCIS。 
 
 
  
 5
2011.05.08-11, Amesterdam, Netherland 
Analysis of Electrokinetic Energy Conversion in Hydrophobic Microchannels with 
Slip-Dependent Zeta Potential 
 
P.W. Hwang, J.C. Wang, and C.Y. Soong 
Department of Aerospace and Systems Engineering, Feng Chia University 
Seatwen, Taichung, Taiwan 40724, ROC 
 
The objective of the present study is to investigate fluid transport and electrokinetic energy 
conversion efficiency in microchannels of wall hydrophobicity with special emphasis on effects 
of boundary slip and zeta potential. Wall-liquid interface properties may have noticeable 
influences on the hydrodynamic characteristics of microscale flow systems. Currently, we can use 
a certain physical or chemical means to modify surface hydrophobicity, which can be 
characterized with slip length as an index. Some previous works with considering a small slip 
length revealed enhancement of fluid transport and electrokinetic energy conversion in 
microchannels. However, is wall hydrophobicity always beneficial to the electrokinetic energy 
conversion? To answer this question, we need further investigation. Here we use a 
pressure-driven electrokinetic flow in a hydrophobic circular microchannel as the flow 
configuration. The flow is assumed steady, constant-property and fully-developed. Solutions to 
this simplified flow model are developed. To account for the influence of boundary slip on the 
zeta potential, a slip-dependent zeta potential is invoked as boundary condition in solving the 
Poisson-Boltzmann equation. Solutions of fluid velocity, flowrate, electrostatic potential, stream 
current and potential are obtained. Coupled effects of variable properties, electrokinetics and 
fluid slip, on the fluid transport and electrokinetic energy conversion efficiency are explored and 
the underlying physical mechanisms are addressed. Most importantly, the present results disclose 
that the streaming potential/current, the flowrate, and thus the electrokinetic energy conversion 
are all varies non-monotonically with slip length. As shown in figure below, the enhancement in 
fluid transport and energy conversion efficiency caused by the wall hydrophobicity occurs over a 
range of slip length. The results are useful to the design of electrokinetic battery as well as the 
microfluidic applications with the interfacial phenomena dominated. 
 
Fig.1 Effects of slip length and zeta potential on (a) flowrate; (b) electrokinetic energy conversion 
efficiency. 
Acknowledgement – Authors appreciate the financial support from National Science Council, the 
Republic of China via grants NSC 97-2221-E-035-087-MY3 and NSC 98-2221-E-035-068-MY3. 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：宋齊有 計畫編號：97-2221-E-035-087-MY3 
計畫名稱：生物拍撲飛行之流體動力研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 3 100% 
本研究係與本案
協同研究員-臺大
楊鏡堂教授仿生
研究團隊合作研
究。部份參與之研
究助理非支本案
之津貼，故實際參
與人力多於表列
支薪者。 
博士生 2 4 100% 
本研究係與本案
協同研究員-臺大
楊鏡堂教授仿生
研究團隊合作研
究。部份參與之研
究助理非支本案
之津貼，故實際參
與人力多於表列
支薪者。 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國外 論文著作 期刊論文 1 4 100% 篇 
目前已有一篇期
刊論文發表，亦有
一篇已完稿，準備
投稿；另有兩篇撰
寫中。本研究係與
本案協同研究員-
臺大楊鏡堂教授
仿生研究計畫共
同成果。 
