 2
starting to set, CPC tends to disintegrate upon 
early contact with blood or other fluids [5,6]. 
Takechi et al. suggested that an anti-washout 
property was not a sufficient, but a necessary 
condition for an excellent tissue response to 
CPC [6]. Efforts have been made in recent years 
to overcome this drawback. Polymeric materials 
such as chitosan [5−7], alginate [4,5], and 
gelatin [2,3,8] have been used to improve the 
anti-washout properties of CPC.  
Naturally polymeric gelatin is obtained 
from bovine bone via thermal denaturation or 
physical and chemical degradation of collagen, 
and it has been widely employed as a scaffold 
material in tissue engineering. Chitosan and its 
derivatives are also natural biomaterials that 
appear to be good candidates for use as an 
elastomeric additive to overcome the inherently 
brittle ceramic-matrix cement [6,9−12]. 
Chitosan oligosaccharide is a non-toxic, 
functional, low molecular weight amino sugar. It 
is a mixture of D-glucosamine oligomers, which 
has perfect water-solubility, anticancer and 
antibacterial bioactivity [13]. Incorporation of 
chitosan oligosaccharide may be very useful in 
enhancing the biological properties of CPC. 
Bone and teeth are composite materials 
consisting mainly of an organic matrix (collagen) 
and a mineral phase (hydroxyapatite) [14]. 
Successful design of bone substitute materials 
requires an appreciation for the structure of bone. 
Thus, the use of a hybrid composite composed 
of a biopolymer and calcium phosphate, 
resembling the morphology and properties of 
natural bone, may be one way to solve the 
problem of ceramics’ brittleness without 
reducing its mechanical properties, all while 
maintaining biocompatibility, high bioactivity, 
and bonding properties. Few studies have 
attempted to achieve anti-washout bone cement 
with high osteogenicity through combining 
natural gelatin and chitosan oligosaccharide 
with bioactive CPC. In the present study, gelatin 
and chitosan oligosaccharide were chosen as the 
solid phase and liquid phase additives, 
respectively. The objectives of this study were 
to optimize the properties of a 
CPC−chitosan−gelatin hybrid composite by 
tailoring the amounts of chitosan 
oligosaccharide and gelatin and to evaluate the 
physicochemical properties and 
biocompatibility of the hybrid cement.  
 
2. Experimental 
2.1. Preparation of the hybrid cement 
To create apatite (Ca/P = 1.67), the solid 
phase of the cement, calcium carbonate 
(CaCO3, Showa, Tokyo, Japan) and 
monocalcium phosphate monohydrate 
(Ca(H2PO4)2·H2O, Showa, Tokyo, Japan) were 
combined in a 7:3 molar ratio. Type B gelatin 
(isoelectric point at pH = 4.7−5.2) (GLT) from 
bovine skin (Sigma, St. Louis, MO) was added 
to the mixture at either 5% or 10%, by weight, 
using a conditioning mixer (ARE-250, Thinky, 
Tokyo, Japan). The hybrid mixture was then 
ball-milled for 6 h.  
To prepare the cement, a chitosan 
oligosaccharide (COS) solution  was mixed by 
dissolving chitosan oligosaccharide lactate 
(Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO) powder in 
distilled water at a mass fraction 
(chitosan/(chitosan + water)) of 5% or 10%. 
Chitosan oligosaccharide lactate has a 90% 
degree of deacetylation and a molecular weight 
of less than 5000. Liquid and solid phase 
components were mixed at a ratio of 0.55 mL/g 
to create the cement specimens. Cement 
without added GLT and COS was used as the 
control. After mixing, the specimens were 
placed in cylindrical stainless steel moulds to 
form the specimen dimension of 6 mm 
(diameter) × 3 mm (height) and stored in an 
incubator at 100% relative humidity and 37oC 
for hydration.  
 
2.2. Phase composition and morphology  
The surface of cement specimens was coated 
with gold and examined under a scanning 
electron microscope (SEM, Jeol JSM-6700F, 
Tokyo, Japan). Phase analysis of the cement 
specimens was performed using X-ray 
diffractometry (XRD, Shimadzu XD-D1, 
Kyoto, Japan) operated at 30 kV and 30 mA at 
a scanning speed of 1o/min. 
 
 4
96-well tissue-culture plate. Plates were read 
using a Σ960 ELISA microplate reader 
(Metertech Inc, Taipei, Taiwan) at 570 nm. 
Specimen analysis results were obtained in 
triplicate from four separate experiments. The 
results were reported in terms of optical density 
(OD).  
 
2.5.2. Alkaline phosphatase assay 
The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity of 
differentiated osteoblasts on the various cement 
specimens was measured after 7 days of 
incubation. ALP catalyzes the hydrolysis of the 
colorless organic phosphate ester substrate, p-
nitrophenylphosphate (pNPP), to p-nitrophenol, 
a yellow product, and phosphate. ALP activity 
was measured using the TRACP & ALP assay 
kit (Takara, Shiga, Japan) according to the 
manufacturer’s instructions. To perform the 
assay, cells were washed with physiological 
saline (150 mM NaCl) and lysed in 50 μL of 
lysis buffer (1% NP40 in 150 mM NaCl). For 
measurement purposes, 50 μL of substrate 
solution (20 mM Tris-HCl, 1 mM MgCl2, 12.5 
mM p-nitrophenyl phosphate, pH 9.5) was 
added to each well and allowed to react at 37ºC 
for 30 min. The reaction was stopped with the 
addition of 50 μL of 0.9 N NaOH solution and 
read at 405 nm using the Sunrise Microplate 
Reader (Tecan Austria Gesellschaft, Salzburg, 
Austria).  
 
2.5.3. Calcium staining by Alizarin Red S 
Mineralized matrix synthesis was analyzed 
using the Alizarin Red S staining method, which 
identified calcium deposition. After culturing for 
7 days, cells were washed with PBS and fixed 
with a 10% formalin neutral buffer solution 
(Wako) for 10 min at 4oC,  followed by staining 
for 10 min in 0.5% Alizarin Red S (Acros 
Organics, Geel, Belgium) in PBS at room 
temperature. Cells were completely washed with 
PBS and examined using a digital camera 
(PowerShot S30, Canon, Tokyo, Japan).  
 
2.6. Statistical analysis 
One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was 
used to evaluate significant differences between 
means in the measured data. Scheffe’s multiple 
comparison testing was used to determine the 
significance of standard deviations in the 
measured data from each specimen under 
different experimental conditions. In all cases, 
results were considered statistically significant 
with a p-value of less than 0.05. 
 
3. Results and discussion 
3.1. Phase composition and morphology 
The additives GLT and COS, which were 
examined in this study, may play a crucial role 
in the properties of cement. The rationale for 
selecting these two components was that COS 
is an analogue of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) 
and that GLT is directly derived from collagen. 
They thus share characteristics with GAGs and 
collagen, which are present in extracellular 
matrix. After mixing with liquid, XRD patterns 
of all cements revealed a broad and obvious 
diffraction peak around 2θ = 32o, 
corresponding to the amorphous apatite phase, 
and incompletely reacted inorganic component 
phases of CaCO3 and Ca(H2PO4)2·H2O (Fig. 1). 
It is clear that the apatite formed in the CPC-
GLT specimen was less crystalline (Fig. 1a). 
GLT, when it touched water, absorbed the 
water and formed a gel that partially 
encapsulated the particles and impeded the 
hydration reaction of CPC. However, COS did 
not markedly reduce the peak intensities of the 
apatite phase (Fig. 1b).  
The SEM micrographs of the cements, with 
and without GLT and COS, are shown in Fig. 2. 
The as-set CPC control had a smooth 
appearance with entangled particles and 
exhibited several pores (Fig. 2a). When 10% 
GLT was added, the composite cements 
became more compact (Fig. 2b). This may be 
due to a reaction between calcium ions in the 
particles of calcium phosphates and carboxyl 
groups within gelatin polypeptide chains. In 
addition, negative charges in the type B gelatin 
may have contributed to the bond [9]. COS-
containing cement had a structure similar to the 
CPC control (Fig. 2c). Similarly, the surface 
morphology of the COS/GLT-containing 
hybrid cement looked similar to the GLT-
 6
containing cements were significantly higher (p 
< 0.05) than those obtained from the control and 
GLT-containing groups at 3 and 7 days. This 
demonstrated that during the culture periods, the 
number of viable cells on COS-containing 
cement surfaces was significantly higher than on 
CPC with and without GLT. Cell viability 
increased 44% in the presence of 5% COS and 
82% in the presence of 10% COS when 
compared with the control on day 3. The 
increased proliferation of MG63 cells showed 
that COS could provide an optimal environment 
for osteoblasts to function normally, promoting 
the biological activity of CPC. Biomolecules 
with OH, COOH, and NH2 functional groups, 
such as COS, alter the functional presentation of 
the major integrin binding domain of adsorbed 
fibronectin and modulate integrin binding, 
localization, and specificity [20,21]. The SEM 
images revealed cells that appeared flat and 
exhibited intact, well-defined morphology (Fig. 
5). 
 
3.5. ALP and calcium staining 
ALP levels are used as a marker of 
osteoblastic differentiation [22]. An increase in 
the specific activity of ALP in a population of 
bone cells reflects a shift to a more 
differentiated state. Moreover, ALP appears to 
play a crucial role in the initiation of matrix 
mineralization, while the expression of the 
enzyme is down-regulated after the initiation of 
the mineralization stage [23,24]. ALP activity 
was monitored for up to 7 days to investigate the 
impact of various cements on cell differentiation. 
ALP activity from MG63 cells was enhanced by 
the 10% COS hybrid cement as compared to the 
control and 10% GLT cement on day 7, as 
illustrated in Fig 6, although differences there 
not significant (p > 0.05).  
The ability of cells to produce mineralized 
matrix and nodules is important for the 
development of materials suitable for bone 
regeneration [25]. Alizarin Red S staining is a 
common histochemical technique used to detect 
calcium deposits in mineralized tissues and 
cultures. Low-magnification views of MG63 
cells stained with Alizarin Red-S are shown in 
Fig. 7. Clear calcified tissue formation was 
seen in the cultures grown in the presence of 
the CPC control at 7 days (Fig. 7b), while the 
cells without any test materials stained very 
lightly (Fig. 7a). Similar results were seen in 
the cultures in which COS or GLT alone was 
added (Fig. 7c,d), but the promotive effect of 
the two additives on mineralization was only 
slightly higher than the control cement. 
Mineralized matrix synthesis was most evident 
in the COS/GLT-containing hybrid cements 
(Fig. 7e,f), which stained much more intensely 
than the others, in particular, for 10% 
additives-containing specimen. These results 
demonstrated that hybrid cements provided a 
favorable environment for MG63 cells, 
resulting in a large amount of mineralized 
tissue formation.  
As mentioned previously, disadvantages 
such as poor anti-washout properties have 
provoked development of a cohesive CPC. The 
synergistic combination of COS, GTL and CPC 
structures in hybrid cements not only results in 
unique properties compared with those of the 
individual components but also resembles the 
morphology and properties of natural bone, 
making them very useful in hard tissue repair 
and replacements [8,14,26]. In this study, it is 
clearly seen that the presence of GLT may 
improve anti-washout properties of CPCs and 
COS may promote biological activity. Cement 
with 5% GLT and 10% COS may be a better 
choice among cements, in terms of anti-
washout properties and biological activity, 
although it had a longer setting time (48 min) 
than the CPC control (23 min). 
 
4. Conclusion 
This study sought to investigate the 
synergistic effects of COS and GLT on 
properties of CPC. The GLT selected in the 
present study may improve the anti-washout 
properties of CPC, although it significantly 
prolonged the setting time and slightly reduced 
the strength. COS did not influence the phase 
evolution and microstructure of the cement, 
and, as a result, it had a setting time and DTS 
comparable to the control. COS did, however, 
 8
(a (b
(c (d
(c (d
(b(a
A E D C B 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. XRD patterns of the solid phase 
specimens with and without different amounts of 
GLT mixed with (a) water and (b) COS. The 
COS/(COS + water) of 5 and 10% by mass were 
used. (■: CaCO3; ▼: Ca(H2PO4)2·H2O; □: 
apatite) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. SEM micrographs of as-set cement 
specimens of (a) the control and the hybrid 
cements containing (b) 10% GLT, (c) 10% COS, 
and (d) 10% COS/10% GLT. Water (a, b) and 
10% chitosan solution (c, d) were used as the 
liquid phase to prepare the cement specimens. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. Anti-washout properties of (A) the CPC 
control, (B) CPC-5% GLT, (C) CPC-10% GLT, 
(D) CPC-10% COS, and (E) CPC-10% 
COS/10% GLT cements. Immediately after 
mixing, the cement bulk was immersed in SBF. 
The picture was taken 60 min later.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. MTT assay for proliferation of MG63 
cell cultured on the various cement surfaces 
with and without GLT and COS at 1, 3, and 7 
days incubation. Water and chitosan solution 
(5% and 10%) were used as the liquid phase to 
prepare the cement specimens.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Cell morphology of MG63 cell cultured 
on (a) the control cement surface and the 
hybrid cement surfaces containing (b) 10% 
GLT, (c) 10% COS, and (d) 10% COS/10% 
GLT after 3 days incubation. Water (a, b) and 
10% chitosan solution (c, d) were used as the 
liquid phase to prepare the cement specimens. 
