aspects of such technologies. 
 
In this project, a strategic technology development platform for 
hydrogen related technologies will be developed. The platform 
introduces life cycle perspectives on hydrogen and relevant goods 
(ex. fuel cell) and services (ex. transportation), and considers 
interaction among the hydrogen production and utilization 
technologies. Using the developed platform, possible hydrogen 
society in Taiwan will be illustrated. The example of questions 
addressed would be: 
 6； To what amount should we introduce hydrogen? 
 6； For which applications should hydrogen be used? 
 6； How does a technology breakthrough affect environmental 
impacts? 
 6； How does such breakthrough affect the size of the future 
hydrogen society? 
By making it possible to answer those questions, the platform will 
provide technology researchers with a clear understanding of roles 
of their technology in the entire hydrogen society as well as the 
relationships with the competing technologies, bottom-line and 
favorable target efficiencies, etc. By doing so, some critical 
breakthroughs will be emphasized among others, which could 
catalyze the technology development and shorten the ’time-to-
market’ of the new technologies. Economic aspects will be 
considered using eco-efficiency concept and internalized 
environmental cost. By designing hydrogen society with different 
objectives such as minimum impact, minimum cost, and highest 
eco-efficiency, this study could facilitate policy discussions 
incorporating details of cutting edge knowledge on technologies. 
 
 II 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
 
Abstract 1 
1. Part 1: METHODOLOGICAL FRAMEWORK 
    1-1 Introduction 
    1-2. Methodology 
      1-2.1 Method of developing graphical c-LCA 
        1- 2.1.1 Step 1: Define a technology domain 
        1- 2.1.2 Step 2: Calculate associated impact of selected domain technology 
        1- 2.1.3 Step 3: Generate a graphical representation 
        1-2.1.4 Step 4: Interpret the results and provide feedback information 
      1-2.2 Indicators 
      1-2.3 Contribution of technology innovation/breakthrough 
    1-3. Results  
    1-4. Discussion 
    1-5. Conclusions and recommendations 
    1-6 Reference for Part 1 
1 
1 
3 
3 
3 
4 
4 
5 
5 
5 
6 
6 
7 
7 
2. Part 2: CASE STUDY 
    2-1 Introduction 
    2-2 Case studies applied to graphical representation for c-LCA 
      2-2.1 Step 1: Define a technology domain 
11 
11 
12 
12 
 1 
Abstract  
Purpose To construct future visions of how innovative technologies should be used in the envisioned 
sustainable society while being aware of system-wide environmental impacts, consequential life cycle 
assessment (c-LCA) is useful. To systematically evaluate the technologies being aware of uncertainties in 
choice of technologies made in the future, in this article we propose a novel graphical representation for 
theoretical range of impacts that contain results from c-LCA studies. This approach allows analyses of the 
consequences of the technology introduction without conducting detailed modeling of consequences. 
Methods We stand on an assumption that the future environmental impacts reduced by a new technology 
depends on 1) how much the efficiency of the technology is improved, 2) how much of less-efficient 
technology is directly and indirectly replaced by the new technology, and 3) how much product is needed in 
the envisioned future. The difficulty in c-LCA is that 2) and 3) are uncertain from various socioeconomic 
reasons that are often difficult to predict. By organizing the results from product LCAs in a systematic way, 
the proposed methodology allows exhibiting the range of consequential changes in environmental impact 
associated with a technology innovation, taking into account of those uncertainties on a plain coordinated by 
the amount of product needed in the future and environmental impact on horizontal and vertical axes, 
respectively. 
Results Part 1 describes the methodological framework in detail, whereas part 2 elaborates on the applications 
of the methodology. By taking transportation technologies assuming various energy sources in Taiwan, 
choices of technologies and evaluation of technology improvements serve as the case studies to demonstrate 
the application of the methodological framework.  
Conclusions By using the proposed method to organize the assumptions in c-LCA, discussions on different 
choices of technologies are made more systematic. In this way, stakeholders can focus on visions of the future 
society, which lead to different choices of technologies. 
 
1. Part 1: METHODOLOGICAL FRAMEWORK 
1-1 Introduction 
There is a growing concern toward achieving sustainable development in modern society, leading to 
innovation of a myriad of technologies. For effective policy making on emerging technologies, expected 
reductions in induced environmental interventions should be assessed from system-wide perspectives. To 
assist sustainable technology implementation planning, comprehensive tools and approaches that play an 
essential role in strategic policy decision have been presented (Robe`rt, 2000; Robe`rt et al., 2002; 
MacDonald, 2005). By carrying out environmental assessment already at the research and development stages 
higher degrees of freedom with regarding to changes in in design of technology can be achieved. This has 
been highlighted in a previous paper and also a stochastic methodology to deal with associated uncertainties 
has been provided (Hoffmann, 2001). Moreover, the perception that engineers have a responsibility not just to 
 3 
domain. This visualization enables to identify the range of potential environmental consequence of a 
technology replacement within the defined technology domain. It effectively displays marginal changes in 
environmental impacts induced by the domain technologies. This method streamlines the c-LCA, avoiding 
detailed modeling of consequences while delivering useful information on how effectively technology 
implementation can reduce environmental impacts by indicating the changes in theoretical maximum and 
minimum environmental impact obtained by exhaustive combination of technologies that satisfy a certain 
demand, rather than making an precise prediction of consequences. The article has been divided into two parts. 
Part 1 describes the methodological framework in detail, whereas part 2 elaborates focuses more on the 
applications of the methodology. 
1-2. Methodology 
LCA is used to analyze the environmental impacts associated with a product. To complete an analysis, the 
product and every stage of its life cycle are explicitly described. When more than one (a) product that could 
deliver the same function or (b) life cycle pathways are in the scope of the study, the results from 
combinations of choices (often defined as scenarios) are presented. Figure 1 depicts a situation where N 
production scenarios and M use and disposal scenarios exist for a single product. That is, there are N routes of 
processes to produce a product and M ways to utilize it.  
Always, uncertainty is inherent to c-LCA because it relies on models to predict the consequences, which have 
varied types and levels of uncertainty. As c-LCA method is helping to form strategic decision, the uncertainty 
should be communicated to the decision-makers. The novel graphical representation for c-LCA proposed in 
this study visualizes the theoretical range of environmental consequences without modeling the detailed 
consequences in the technology introduction into society. A detailed procedure of the methodology developed 
is described in this section. 
1-2.1 Method of developing graphical c-LCA 
This graphical c-LCA method designed for assessing technology is summarized in Figure 2. It presents the 
major building blocks of the methodology, which are in accordance with the life cycle assessment framework. 
Four steps are included: (1) define a technology domain, (2) calculate associated impacts of selected domain 
technology, (3) generate a graphical representation, and (4) interpret the results and provide feedback 
information. 
1- 2.1.1 Step 1: Define a technology domain 
First, the evaluated technology domain should be defined. A process of production or utilization associated 
with the evaluated product is defined as a technology. Each technology is classified into either production or 
utilization technology. An initial collection of production and utilization technologies is set based on specific 
criteria and constraints. For example, “renewable hydrogen technologies” is assumed as the technology 
domain that produces and utilizes hydrogen via renewable energy sources. When a technology conforms to 
criteria and constraints set, that is, produce hydrogen using renewables, it can be chosen in the domain.  This 
corresponds with the stage of “goal and scope definition” in the LCA framework.  
 5 
which intersect at the origin and at another end of the curves. 
By combining the P and U curves, the impact curve (I curve) can be synthesized to show the net changes in 
environmental impact over the extent of a collection of technologies. Note that only the impacts that are 
directly associated with the individual technologies in the evaluated domain is evaluated here. For example, 
the Imax and Imin curves show the maximum and minimum environmental impacts induced by introducing 
those set of technologies. That is, for a certain amount (xh) of feedstock utilized, the environmental impact 
induced from society is within the vertical range between the Imax and Imin curves at xh on the horizontal axis. 
How much the xh would be depends on various socioeconomic factors of market penetration, such as cost, 
incentives introduced by the government, and oil price. Marginal additional impact (and impact reduction) 
varies over the demand of production and utilization. In this graphical representation, this is considered and 
expressed as the shape of the range in between the Imax and Imin curve. 
1-2.1.4 Step 4: Interpret the results and provide feedback information 
The environmental effects among corresponding technologies are visualized and can provide information for 
strategic decision making. For example, different scenarios of technology introduction under various 
economical and social circumstances can be accessed via the graphical representation. Feedback such as 
technology reconsideration is obtained when the results need to be reexamined.  
1-2.2 Indicators 
To characterize the results from this methodology, the indicators are proposed, as shown in Figure 4. The 
feedstock Point A (xA, yA) indicates the maximum environmental impact (i.e., yA) induced by those chosen 
technologies among all possible technology implementations. As a convex upward curve, point A on the Imax 
curve indicates the highest point and implies the possible maximum environmental impact value. 
Then point B (xB , 0) can give an index of emission neutralization. As shown in Figure 4, the y value (i.e., 
environmental impact) of the Imax curve will be maintained as negative when the hydrogen amount is over 
point B (i.e. xB). In other words, when the feedstock amount exceeds xB, the environmental impact reduction 
can always be achieved. 
Finally, at point C, the maximum emission reduction can be expressed. On account of point C (xC , yC) being 
on Imin curve and showing the lowest point, point C can indicate the maximum emission reduction amount (yC) 
and the most appropriate amount (xC) for society attributable to the highest reduction potential. Even if the 
feedstock utilization exceeds xc, the environmental impact remains negative compared to the benchmark 
situation at the origin of the figure.  
1-2.3 Contribution of technology innovation/breakthrough 
This proposed methodology can also be used to evaluate a technology breakthrough/improvement. The 
composite of technologies including the evaluated innovation can be constructed by changing or adding the 
segments in the P and U curves. Examples of modification of Pmin and Umax curves owing to various types of 
 7 
feedback on target efficiencies and consequential environmental benefits to the researchers developing the 
technologies being assessed. Three indicators are defined in the use of this proposed methodology: maximum 
environmental impact, emission neutralization and maximum emission reduction. These provide information 
on the relationship between feedstock utilization and the associated environmental impact. 
However, the methodology suffers from a number of limitations at present. This methodology might have a 
limitation on when to consider several environmental, economic, and social indexes at the same time for the 
visual aspect. For example, it can be extended into three dimensions to compare two different indexes, yet it is 
not easy to understand if it is extended into more than three dimensions. In this case, the aggregation method 
might be applied, although some information on the characteristics of the index may be lost by the 
aggregation. That is, if the selected impact categories are integrated into a single index, the differences of 
impacts among various processes cannot be identified. For instance, a process that emits lower GHG emission 
may have a higher acidification potential. If several indexes are integrated, the information on the trade-off 
between them might be lost. In this paper we showed that this methodology is useful when the net utilization 
impacts are negative, while as the production impacts are positive. In other cases, it seems that the usefulness 
of this methodology is limited. 
1-5. Conclusions and recommendations 
By collecting more data on a wider variety of corresponding technologies in the selected domains, a 
technology assessment platform can be constructed. It is recommended that such a platform be constructed to 
make the most of the technological assets generated as a result of research activities. As a result, the platform 
enables the optimization of the possible future society reflecting various criteria and constraints.  
The proposed methodology distinguishes the uncertainty regarding the choice of technologies that arise as a 
consequence of various considerations from other types of uncertainties, and visualize the prior. This 
approach is particularly useful for assessing different scenarios of the technology implementation. In this way, 
stakeholders (ex. technology developers and policy makers) can focus on of visions of the future society, 
which include different choices of set of technologies.  
Both existing and new technologies can be assessed in the proposed framework. Varied levels of uncertainty 
in the existing and new technologies should be noted, but currently not assessed in the proposed methodology. 
1-6 Reference for Part 1 
Clift R (2006) Sustainable development and its implications for chemical engineering. Chemical Engineering 
Science 61: 4179–4187. doi:10.1016/j.ces.2005.10.017 
Earles JM, Halog A (2011) Consequential life cycle assessment: a review. Int J Life Cycle Assess 16: 445-453. 
doi:10.1007/s11367-011-0275-9  
Ekvall T, Andrae ASG (2006) Attributional and consequential environmental assessment of the shift to 
lead-free solders. Int J Life Cycle Assess 5(11):344–353. doi:10.1065/lca2005.05.208 
Ekvall T, Weidema BP (2004) System boundaries and input data in consequential life cycle inventory 
 9 
Resources	  &	  
Utilities
Production
P1
・・・
Product
Resources	  &	  
Utilities
Production
P2
Resources	  &	  
Utilities
Production
Pｎ
Use	  &	  Disposal
U1
・・・
Use	  &	  Disposal
U2
Use	  &	  Disposal
Um
Function
 
Figure 1-1 Scope of a study when multiple production and use & disposal scenarios are evaluated with c-LCA. In addition to the 
interactions among the technologies in the defined domain, influences on replaced technologies by the use of the evaluated 
technologies are considered.  
 
 
 
2.1.1 Define a “technology domain”
-Select domain technologies
2.1.3 Generate 
graphical 
representation
- P, U & I curves
2.1.4 Interpret results
- Innovative indicators
Goal and Scope Definition
Life Cycle Inventory 
Analysis (LCI)
Life Cycle Impact 
Assessment (LCIA)
InterpretationL
ife
 C
yc
le
 A
ss
es
sm
en
t F
ra
m
ew
or
k
2.1.2 Calculate 
life cycle stages 
of domain 
technologies
Technology	  
improvement/	  
reconsideration
 
 
Figure 1-2 Method of developing graphical c-LCA methodology according to LCA framework 
 
 
 
Environmental	  Impact
Feedstock	  (ex.	  H2)
P1
P2
P3
P4
Pmin
Imin
Umax
U1
U2
U3 U4
Environmental	  Impact
Feedstock	  (ex.	  H2)
P1
P2
P3
P4
PMax
Imax
Umin
U1
U2
U3
U4
 
 
 
Figure 1-3 Graphical representation of c-LCA explained in the context of evaluated technologies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3(a) Synthesis of maximum environmental impact curve 3(b) Synthesis of minimum environmental impact curve 
 11 
2. Part 2: CASE STUDY 
2-1 Introduction  
The graphical representation for consequential life cycle assessment is proposed in part 1 of this paper, which 
described the methodological framework. In part 2, two case studies on the choice of technologies and 
evaluation of technology improvement are presented and discussed, which demonstrate the graphical method 
according to the methodology described in the following sections. Both of the two case studies discuss the 
innovation of hydrogen technology in a “hydrogen society” in Taiwan.  
Energy security has always been a concern because of its high dependence on imported source of energy, e.g., 
99.37% imported in 2009, among which 13.16% for used in the transportation sector (Bureau of Energy 2009). 
Moreover, pollutants from the transportation sector are causing serious environmental problems owing to the 
high population density, e.g., 639 people/km2 in 2009 (Department of Household Registration 2010), and the 
high utilization rate of motor vehicles when people commute. 
The use of hydrogen as an alternative energy carrier has been receiving attention for a number of reasons. 
Hydrogen is cleaner than fossil fuels because almost zero pollutants are emitted during the energy conversion. 
This characteristic can improve environmental quality because the sources of pollutants can be centralized 
during the production of hydrogen rather than be distributed to locations where people visit or pass by with 
their vehicles. Moreover, hydrogen can facilitate the active use of unused and renewable energy sources 
because pathways to generate those into hydrogen are developed actively. Researches show the potential of 
hydrogen derived from biomass (e.g. agriculture and forest waste, kitchen waste, etc.), wind and solar energy 
via thermal chemical, photochemical or biological processes (John Turner et al. 2008). In this way, the 
hydrogen society could promote independence from fossil fuels. This benefit is critical in many countries 
including Taiwan, which relies heavily on imported fossil fuels. An important characteristic of renewable 
energy is its versatility, i.e., it is found everywhere in various forms, such as wind, solar irradiation, and 
biomass. Therefore, an energy system that is more geographically distributed can be designed, which has the 
advantages of disaster-tolerant energy supply and reduction of loss in energy transportation. To bring all those 
benefits into reality, research efforts have been invested into hydrogen related technologies.  
For Taiwan, hydrogen-based transportation systems based on renewable energy can be a particularly attractive 
solution to the above-mentioned challenges. At the same time, Taiwan, as an island, realizes the importance of 
mitigating global warming and striving to reduce GHG emission although it is not a member party of United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). 
There is a wide and growing literature exploring different possible pathways to a hydrogen-based future. Life 
cycle assessments (LCAs) of individual hydrogen technologies are found: several studies focus on hydrogen 
fuel production processes (Tugnoli et al. 2008; Koroneos et al. 2004) and hydrogen-utilizing applications 
(Granovskii et al. 2006), but none of them address the entire composite of technologies that should exist in an 
envisioned hydrogen society. However, a “hydrogen society” comprises multiple hydrogen technologies that 
interact with each other. Hydrogen production technologies compete over the limited demand for hydrogen 
and over limited resources for hydrogen production, while utilization technologies compete over a limited 
 13 
on the fundamental wind atlases and development potential map of wind energy in Taiwan (ITRI and NCU 
2002) is applied in this study, which concludes that the potential installed capacity is ca. 28,GW in total. To 
obtain the capacity factors of the wind turbines, first, the wind speed simulations were performed by applying 
the 5-year actual wind speed data acquired from the Central Weather Bureau of Taiwan. Among large number 
of studies, Weibull probability density function (PDF) is widely adopted to model the wind speed frequency 
curve (Patel 2006). By fitting time-series data obtained from measurement, parameters in Weibull PDF can be 
derived. In this study, Weibull PDF shown below is applied to simulate wind speed the respective locations.  
f (V ) = kc (
V
c )
k−1e−(V c )
k
 
, where k is the shape parameter, c is the scale parameter and v is wind speed. The parameter k determines the 
shape of the distribution curve, and with k=2 is a typical pattern found at most site. And the parameter c 
represents the wind speed range. For the greater value of c, the distribution curve shift right to higher wind 
speed, that is, higher c represents the greater number of days that have high winds. One of the simulated 
results is shown in Figure 1. 
Once the time course of the wind speed is simulated, power generation is calculated by applying a wind 
turbine characteristic curve (Chang et al. 2003), which describes the power output for various wind speeds. A 
turbine is operated between cut-in speed VI and VO. P(V) is actual power output, PR is the constant output at a 
range of rated speed VR and cut-off speed VO, 
P(V) =
0                                                    ,V < VI = 3(m / s)
(a1V 3 + a2V 2 + a3V + a4 ) ⋅PR        , VI ≤  V < VR =15(m / s)  
PR                                                   ,VR ≤  V < VO = 25(m / s)
0                                                    ,V ≥ VO
$
%
&
&
'
&
&
 
Using regression analysis, values for all the parameters were obtained as follows: a1=-0.001, a2=0.030, 
a3=-0.176, a4=0.292, PR=1026(kW). Then by applying simulated hourly wind speed at respective wind turbine 
sites throughout a year into the function obtained, namely, P(V) =0 when V≦(3m/s) and V≧25(M/s), P(V)= 
1026×(-0.001V3+0.030V2-0.176V+0.292) when 3≦V<15(m/s), and P(V)=1026 when 15≦V<25(m/s),  
respective power generation were obtained. Then, by applying a simulated hourly wind speed at respective 
wind turbine sites throughout a given year, respective power generations are obtained. 
A commercialized process data (53.4 kWh/kg-H2) (Ivy 2004) is applied to the obtained power production 
from wind power generators, to calculate the annual electrolytic hydrogen production. 
The environmental impact induced by wind-power-derived hydrogen is calculated by life cycle assessment 
considering cradle-to-gate of the produced hydrogen. Manufacturing, foundation construction, operation and 
disposal of wind turbine, as well as the energy consumption in the hydrogen production phase, were 
considered (Spath and Mann 2004, Lee and Tzeng 2008). 
 15 
)( 2,22 CO
i i i
ii
iCOCO EFM
DNEE ××==∑ ∑
 
Therefore, if the transportation sector powered by fossil fuel can be replaced by hydrogen- powered vehicles, 
the environmental impact of fuel usage, which includes fuel extraction and combustion, can be reduced. The 
calculation stands on assuming trucks are fueled by diesel, while passenger cars and motorcycles are by 
gasoline. The environmental impact reduction potential with the replacement of fossil fuels was obtained 
using the equation above. In this case study, the displacement in hydrogen utilization technology is limited to 
negative environmental impact, because only fuel replacement is considered.  
Each LCA and LCI results of the selected technologies are calculated and summarized in Table 2. In 
production technologies, the highest environmental impact induced by the production process is by dark 
fermentation, whereas the lowest environmental impact is by two-stage process. In utilization technologies, 
diesel-fueled vehicles have lower fossil fuel combustions considering the unit traveling distance. 
2-2.3 Step 3: Generate graphical representation 
The results from step 2 summarized in Table 2 are used to generate graphical representation. Data presented 
in production and utilization subdomains are used to construct P and U curves, respectively. Then, the two 
curves are combined to synthesize I curve, which shows the net environmental impacts over the extent of the 
technology domain. Figure 2 shows the minimum and maximum environmental impact patterns of S1. The 
introduction orders of minimum environmental impact pattern (Imin) are wind, solar and dark fermentation in 
production technologies (Pmin), and gasoline-fueled and diesel-fueled vehicles in utilization technologies 
(Umax). The maximum pattern (Imax, Pmax, Umin) is that all the technologies are introduced in opposite orders.  
The three indicators for S1 are shown in Figure 2 as well. Point 1 represents “Maximum emission reduction”, 
which has a potential of 8.31Mton-CO2e when 0.42 Mton-H2 is utilized. “Maximum environmental impact” 
shown as point 2 is 4.81 Mton-CO2e, indicating that the largest emission might be generated by utilizing the 
domain technologies, and “Emission neutralization” is achieved when 0.36 Mton-H2 is utilized, shown as 
point 3. A similar procedure can be applied to S2. 
2-2.4 Step 4: Interpret results 
Figure 3 summarizes the technologies included in the assessment. Figure 4 shows the comparison between S1 
and S2 based on the minimum environmental impact pattern. The results of S1 are presented as solid lines, 
and the dotted lines are for S2. As stated in Table 2, two-stage process has the lowest environmental impacts 
among all hydrogen production subdomain technologies. Therefore, the orders of introducing production 
subdomain technologies in S2 are changed from that of S1. Figure 4 also demonstrates the interactions among 
hydrogen production subdomain technologies. In the case of S2, biohydrogen production process becomes the 
most preferential technology which makes sugarcane biomass earlier utilized than wind and solar resources. 
The yield of hydrogen production is enhanced, and the impact curves are changed (Imin_S1àImin_S2).  
Figure 5 shows the comparison result of indicators between S1 and S2. As three indicators, maximum 
 17 
technologies, potential of hydrogen production and demand, and the resulting possible environmental 
consequences of deployment of the given technologies. These provide information on the relationship 
between feedstock utilization and associated environmental impact, and it can be helpful for allocating 
resource effectively. 
2-5 References 
Alsema1 EA, Mariska JWS (2006) Environmental impacts of crystalline silicon photovoltaic module production. 13th CIRP 
International Conference on Life Cycle Engineering, Leuven  
Bureau of Energy, Ministry of Economic Affairs, Taiwan (2010) Available from: < http://www.moeaboe.gov.tw/, in Chinese, 
accessed in 2010> 
Chang CH (2008) Design platform for stationary PV systems in Taiwanese residential area. Bachelor Thesis, National Cheng Kung 
University  
Chang TJ, Wu YT, Hsu HY, Chu CR and Liao CM (2003) Assessment of wind characteristics and wind turbine characteristics in 
Taiwan. Renewable Energy 28: 851-871. doi:10.1016/S0960-1481(02)00184-2 
Department of Household Registration, M.O.I, Taiwan (2010) Available from: <http://www.ris.gov.tw/, in Chinese, assessed in 
2010> 
Fukushima Y and Kuo YM (2008) Evaluation of GHG emission reduction potentials of PV system considering power mix shifts. 
Journal of Energy Engineering ASCE 134 （2）: 58-62.doi:10.1061/(ASCE)0733-9402(2008)134:2(58) 
Fukushima Y and Chen SP (2009) A decision support tool for modifications in crop cultivation method based on life cycle 
assessment: a case study on greenhouse gas emission reduction in Taiwanese sugarcane cultivation. International Journal of 
life Cycle Assess 14: 639-655. doi:10.1007/s11367-009-0100-x 
Granovskii M, Dincer I, Marc AR (2006) Life cycle assessment of hydrogen fuel cell and gasoline vehicles. International Journal of 
Hydrogen Energy 31: 337-352. doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2005.10.004 
Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) mechanical engineering industry report (2005) The average annual traveling 
mileage analysis in Taiwan, in Chinese 
Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) and National Central University (NCU) (2002) Assessment of wind power 
development potential in Taiwan, in Chinese 
Ivy J (2004), Summary of Electrolytic Hydrogen Production. Milestone Completion Report of National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory 
Koroneos C, Dompros A, Roumbas G, Moussiopoulos N (2004) Life cycle assessment of hydrogen fuel production processes. 
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 29:1443-1450. doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2004.01.016 
Lee YM and Tzeng YE (2008) Development and Life-Cycle Inventory Analysis of Wind Energy in Taiwan. Journal of Energy 
Engineering 37: 53-97. doi:10.1061/(ASCE)0733-9402(2008)134:2(53)  
Manish S, Banerjee R (2008) Comparison of biohydrogen production process. International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 33: 
279-286. doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2007.07.026 
Ministry of Transportation and Communications, R.O.C.; Available from: http://www.motc.gov.tw/, in Chinese, accessed in 2009 
Patel MR (2006) Wind and solar power system: design, analysis, and operation. taylor & francis, UK 
Spath PL, Mann MK (2004); Life cycle assessment of renewable hydrogen production via wind/electrolysis. Milestone Completion 
Report of National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
Taipower; Available from: <http://www.taipower.com.tw/, in Chinese, assessed year: 2008> 
Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), 2009. Sustainability Report 2008. pp. 38, 
http://www.tepco.co.jp/en/challenge/environ/report-e.html, <accessed on December 1, 2009> 
Tugnoli A, Landucci G, Cozzania V, and Cozzani V (2008) Sustainability assessment of hydrogen production by steam reforming. 
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 33: 4345-4357. doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2008.06.011 
Turner J, Sverdrup G, Mann MK, Maness P-C, Kroposki B, Ghirardi M, Evans RJ, Blake D (2007), Renewable hydrogen 
production. International Journal of Energy Research 32: 379-407. doi: 10.1002/er.1372 
 
Wang Q and Deluchi MA (1991) Impacts of electric vehicles on primary energy consumption and petroleum displacement. Energy 
17: 351-366. doi:10.1016/0360-5442(92)90110-L 
Working Group I, IPCC (2007) The physical science basis, IPCC fourth assessment report: climate change 2007. Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). <accessed on December 1, 2009> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
  
 
 
Figure 1 The simulation of wind speed distribution over one year  
 
 
GHG	  emission	   (Mton-­‐CO2e)	  
Wind
Imin
Dark-­‐fer.Solar
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
H2 amount	   (Mton-­‐H2)
1
Wind
Imax
Dark-­‐fer.
Solar
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
GHG	  emission	   (Mton-­‐CO2e)	  
3
2
H2 amount	   (Mton-­‐H2)  
Figure 2  Minimum (left) and maximum (right) environmental impact patterns of S1 
 
 
Solar Water	  Electrolysis Hydrogen	  
Biomass Dark-­‐fermentation
Fuel	  replacement	   	  
(motorcycles)
Fuel	  replacement	  
(cars)	  
Fuel	  replacement
(trucks)
Water	  
ElectrolysisWind
Hydrogen	  production
(cradle-­‐to-­‐gate)
Hydrogen	  utilization
(gate-­‐to-­‐grave)
Biomass Two-­‐stage	  process
Technology	  replacement
Wind turbine
Photovoltaic
Panel
 
 
Figure 3 Scope of assessed hydrogen technologies in the case studies. Here, the cradle-to-gate of hydrogen production technologies 
(ex. wind turbine manufacturing and installation) are considered, while in utilization domain, only fuel replacement are considered. 
 21 
AP1 First document to read - Read Me.txt 
 
-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐	  
	  
	  	  This	  file	  contains	  the	  following	  files:	  
	  	  -­‐appserv-­‐win32-­‐2.5.9.exe	  :	  a	  executed	  file	  to	  install	  AppServ	  
	  	  -­‐userlist	  :	  a	  database	  for	  recording	  users'	  information	  
	  	  -­‐form	  :	  a	  database	  for	  recording	  the	  data	  
	  	  -­‐esel	  :	  the	  codes	  	  
	  	  -­‐jpgraph	  :	  for	  drawing	  graph	  
	  	  -­‐Installation	  &	  Setting	  Instructions	  :	  a	  document	  for	  instructing	  how	  to	  install	  and	  AppServ	  
	  	  -­‐Operation	  Instructions	  :	  a	  document	  for	  instructing	  how	  to	  operate	  the	  web	  page	  
	  	  Please	  read	  the	  "Installation	  &	  Setting	  Instructions"	  first.	  	  
-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐	  
	  
End	  of	  document	  
 
 23 
3. Setting privileges on “form” database 
(1) In the “Database-specific privileges(指定資料庫權限)” part, please select the “form” database 
(Figure 3). 
(2) In the “Table-specific privileges(指定資料表權限)” part, please select the “production” table 
(Figure 4). 
(3) Choose all items of “SELECT”, “INSERT” and “UPDATE”; select the checkbox of “DELETE” 
and click the go button (Figure 5). 
(4) Repeat the procedure 2 and 3 to set privileges on other tables of “form” database (Figure 6). 
 
    
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 set privileges on “ESEL” 
Figure 5 set privileges on “production” table 
Figure 4 select table of “form” 
 25 
 
 
AP3 Operation Guide 
 
1. Login & Register 
(5) Access to http://localhost/esel/login.php . 
(6) Enter the ID and password to Login. 
(7) If you have no ID, please click the register button to register a new ID. 
(There is a 4-20 character limit on ID field. That is English and number only.) 
(There is a 6-12 character limit on Password field. That is English and number only.) 
You will access the index when you login successfully. 
 
2. Index Introduction 
You will see your ID shown on the upper right side. 
(1) There are three tabbed panels in the part 1 of figure 1. 
(Reference and Evaluated panels can select data and show the graph.) 
(Result panel shows the comparison between graphs of reference panel and evaluated panel.) 
(2) In the part 2 of figure 1, you can click the select button to select data from database. The 
left side is production and the right side is utilization. 
(3) The part 3 of figure 1 is a saved list. It saves the data others chosen. 
(4) It will show the graph in the part 4 of figure 1. 
You can click the logout button on the upper right side if you want to leave. 
 
Figure 1 user interface of index 
 27 
4. Add new data 
If you want to add new data into database, please click the “add new data” button in the select window 
(Figure 2), it will pop up a window like figure 4. 
 
Figure 4 Add new data into database 
 
(1) Please notice the tips in the part 1 of figure 4 before you entering data. 
(2) Enter your information of new data in the part 2 of figure 4. 
(3) There are three buttons in the part 3 of figure 4. 
-add - add new data into database 
-clear- clear the entering data in part 2 of figure 4 
-return- return to the select window 
It will show the message about adding data successfully. Please click return button to go back to select 
window and then you will see the data you added. (Figure 5) 
 
Figure 5 the new data you added  
 29 
6. Graph Generation 
(1) Click the select button to select the data of “Production” in the part 1 of figure 7. 
(2) Click the select button to select the data of “Utilization” in the part 2 of figure 7. 
(3) Click submit button in the part 3 of figure 7 to generate the graph. 
(4) The graph will be shown in the part 4 of figure 7. 
 
Figure 7 generate graph 
 
You can also click the fields in the part 1 or part2 of figure 7 to modify the numbers and then click the 
submit button, the graph will be changed.  
 31 
8. Save list 
In the save list, you can find the filename you or other people saved. If the file is not you saved, you can 
click “show” only. Or you can click “show” and “delete”, like figure 11. 
 
Figure 11 save list 
 
When you click the “show”, the data will be shown in the “Production” and “Utilization” parts (like part 1 
and 2 of figure 8). Click the submit button and then the graph will be shown in the graph parts (like part 4 
of figure 7). 
 
You can click the “delete” to delete the saved file you saved from database. It will pop up a check window 
like figure 12. If you click the “yes”, the file will be deleted from database. 
 
 
Figure 12 delete check window 
 33 
10. Graph 
There are six lines in the graph, two for “Production”, two for “Utilization”, and two for “Impact”. The 
two lines of each type can be separated into minimum line and maximum line. The minimum line sorted 
the impact fields in ascendant order and the maximum line sorted the impact fields in descendant order. 
There are three points shown in the bottom of graph, point A, point B, and point C (Figure 14). The point 
A denotes the node with the biggest value in y-axis in Impact-maximum line. The point B denotes the 
node with the smallest value in y-axis in Impact-minimum line. If there is an intersected node that the 
Impact-minimum line or Impact-maximum line intersected with x-axis, then the intersected node is point 
C, origin except. There may be no point C in the graph, like the left graph of figure 13. 
 
Figure 14 Graph 
 
 2 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
11/7 (Sun)  Arrived at Tokyo 
11/8 (Mon)  Executive committee meeting for preparation 
I was appointed as an executive committee member of the conference. 
Therefore, I have participated in the preparation meetings at the venue 
on this day. 
11/9 (Tue)  Conference registration, Welcome Party 
The conference officially started. In the night, welcome party was 
held at a room with very nice view in the conference venue, having 
international guests from around the world. 
11/10 (Wed) Conference Day 2, Session chair (14:30-) 
Keynote speeches were delivered by 1) Mr. Tarutoko, a house of 
計畫編號 NSC 97－2221－E－006－044－MY3 
計畫名稱 應用生命週期觀點於技術評估平台之開發-以臺灣氫能源技術為例 
（第 3 年） 
出國人員
姓名 
福島康裕 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立成功大學 
環境工程學系副教授 
會議時間 
2010 年 11 月 9
日至 2010 年 11
月 12 日 
會議地點 
National Museum of Emerging Science 
and Innovation (Miraikan) in Tokyo, 
Japan 
會議名稱 
(中文) 無 
(英文)  International Conference on EcoBalance 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 無 
(英文)  Contribution of a Technology Improvement in Greenhouse Gas 
Emission Reduction Considering Interactions among Corresponding 
Technologies under Future Circumstances 
附件四 
 4 
Finkbeiner’s group. Her presentation was entitled “Consequential Material Flow 
Analysis (MFA)”. In life cycle assessment, there are varied approaches, one of which is 
called consequential LCA. This presentation claims, that for sustainability assessment of 
technology and policy, consequential approach has to be introduced in MFA, and showed 
her preliminary review and attempts to construct this methodology. Although it was not 
exactly a presentation of complete research outcome, it was of high importance because it 
was one of the very few which discussed progress of development of new methodology. In 
Asia, research group that has ever work out a new analytical methodology is very limited 
in this field. For example in Taiwan, so far as I am aware, only Prof. Ma’s group and my 
group has published papers from International Journal of Life Cycle Assessment. I think, 
it is important that the two groups try to work more in (weak) collaboration and to 
promote research capabilities of Taiwan Universities in this research field. 
 
    For our presentation, questions raised in this conference was of very high importance, 
and actually has influenced the way we have prepared the manuscript of this work, that 
was submitted later (currently under review). I have realized again, to publish a paper of 
higher quality, discussions in conferences is very useful. 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無	 
四、建議 
	 	 	 	 I	 was	 inquired	 if	 Taiwan	 can	 host	 this	 prestigious	 conference	 in	 the	 near	 future.	 In	 my	 
opinion,	 Taiwan	 has	 to	 form	 a	 closer	 interaction	 among	 the	 researchers	 and	 practitioners	 in	 
order	 to	 respond	 to	 this	 inquiry	 with	 a	 positive	 direction	 with	 full	 confidence.	 Since	 then,	 I	 
have	 started	 to	 consider	 enhancing	 the	 interactions	 through	 multiple	 efforts.	 First,	 I	 have	 
invited	 Prof.	 Atsushi	 Inaba	 at	 Kogakuin	 University,	 who	 has	 been	 taking	 leadership	 in	 
LCA	 activities	 in	 Japan	 for	 a	 lecture,	 inviting	 key	 researchers	 in	 Taiwan	 in	 March,	 2011.	 
Through	 various	 academic	 associations	 including	 Chinese	 Institute	 of	 Environmental	 
Engineers,	 I	 will	 try	 to	 organize	 the	 currently	 scattered	 research	 and	 practical	 studies.	 
	  
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1.	 Conference	 paper	 CD. 
六、其他 
無	 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：福島康裕 計畫編號：97-2221-E-006-044-MY3 
計畫名稱：應用生命週期觀點於技術評估平台之開發-以臺灣氫能源技術為例 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 3 0% 
Three papers 
under review (2 
in Int.J.LCA, 1 
in J. Hydrogen 
Energy). 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 0 100% 
篇 
1) International 
Conference on 
Ecobalance 
(Tokyo, Japan), 
2) International 
Society of 
Industrial 
Ecology (Berlin, 
Germany), 3) 
Annual Meeting 
of Institute of 
LCA Japan 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
國外 
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
