1278 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 54, NO. 3, MARCH 2006
Fig. 3. Simulated input reflection coefficients and noise temperatures of the
transistor and its wide-band circuit. (a) Curve 1 corresponds to S of the
single transistor with 50-
 output loading impedance; curve 2 is the S of
the intended wide-band transistor circuit with external R ;C ; and L .
(b) T of the single transistor and its wide-band counterpart, both with 50-

generator impedance.
this circuit’s input admittance can be calculated
as
(1)
which is a capacitor in parallel with a resistor. An external
source inductor can then be added to remove the imaginary part
of , thus rendering a frequency-independent matched input
impedance [20].
However, the above reasoning cannot reflect the real LNA
design work since it neglects the role played by the intrinsic
drain resistor , which has a finite value in the case of high
electron-mobility transistor (HEMT) [21]–[23]. In fact, the tran-
sistor used in designing this paper’s 10–20-GHz LNA has 68-
drain resistance. With finite-value , simulation reveals that
it is not simply a pure output capacitor, but an output
loading circuit plus a source inductor , like that in Fig. 2(b),
that brings in a matched input impedance for the transistor cir-
cuit over wide bandwidth. Here, subscript denotes feedback
to stress these three components’ respective impact on the input
reflection coefficient.
In Fig. 3, the simulated and matched of both the tran-
sistor and its corresponding wide-band circuit are displayed.
Curve 1 is from the transistor itself that has fF,
fF, mS, and , and the drain
temperature is set to 2300 K. Curve 2 is for the wide-band
circuit that has an external source inductor pH con-
nected to the transistor, and the transistor now has an output
loading circuit with and fF. Simulation also
reveals that , once added, suppresses the combined effect of
and , and thus results in an almost constant noise tem-
perature over wide bandwidth. Also, it is mainly and
that bring upon the intended small input reflection coefficient at
low frequency; as frequency increases, it is predominantly
and that help in the lowering of . Since no external re-
sistor appears at its input, this matched wide-band circuit tends
to be low noise. Useful though the simulation is, no insight as
to why it works that way can be extracted from this empirical
approach.
Fig. 4. Proposed wide-band circuit can be decomposed into a resistive-loading
circuit at high frequency and a capacitive-loading circuit at low frequency.
(a) The resistive-loading circuit with R as its output loading. (b) The
capacitive-loading circuit with C as its output loading. The external source
inductor L is retained in both circuits.
Relevant equations will be developed below to explain the
simulated results and how the wide-band mechanism works,
followed by the implementation of a wide-band LNA. A band-
width broadening mechanism suitable for ultra-wide-band LNA
design is then proposed. Since any gain variation of the input
transistor can always be compensated in the following stages
of the LNA, and the impact of the transistor’s gain degradation
on the overall noise temperature is only secondary when com-
pared with the transistor’s directly contributed noise, gain per-
formance will not be addressed in this paper.
II. INPUT MATCHING ANALYSIS
To facilitate the input-matching analysis, the wide-band cir-
cuit configuration needs to be decomposed into two sub-circuits
like that of Fig. 4: one is with resistive output loading ,
which accounts for the high-frequency response of the original
circuit; the other one is with capacitive output loading ,
which is used to explain the original circuit’s low-frequency be-
havior. The external source inductor exists in both cases.
If both and can be neglected, input impedance of the
resistive-loading circuit will be
(2)
where it is assumed that the impedance of is much larger
than that of , which is usually the case in designing an am-
plifier circuit. This expression can be best understood as
that: the induced current flowing through inductor
will generate a voltage that is in phase with the input current
and, therefore, contributes a value of to the input
resistance. Conceptually this interpretation is correct, but nu-
merically it is inaccurate because of the omission of and
. The impact of is that it will increase the effective input
capacitance and, thus, reduces the amount of generated
by ; while the finite-value will degrade the transcon-
ductance and, hence, lowers the induced current flowing
through . A better approximation for the input impedance
is
(3)
1280 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 54, NO. 3, MARCH 2006
Fig. 7. Calculated and simulated input reflection coefficient for the
capacitive-loading circuit. (a) On the Smith chart, dashed curve 1 is the
calculated result using (11), solid curve 1 is its simulated counterpart, and
dashed curve 2 is the calculated one using R ;L ;C of (8) only. (b) The
same results expressed in decibels versus gigahertz.
Fig. 8. Simulated input reflection coefficient of the transistor circuit with
different values of R . (a) On the Smith chart, curves 1–5 correspond to
R = 0; 20;40;60, and 80 
, respectively, while C and L are held
constant at 475 fF and 200 pH. (b) The same simulated results in decibels
versus gigahertz.
fF and pH, dashed curve 1 is the cal-
culated counterpart using (11), dashed curve 2 is the calculated
result using only , and while all the other circuit com-
ponents are neglected. The matching frequency can thus be ap-
proximated as [24]
(12)
With the discussed component values, the calculated frequency
using (12) is 4.79 GHz and is very close to the simulated one.
The 3-dB bandwidth can also be calculated accordingly.
Since the resistive-loading circuit is matched at high fre-
quency while the capacitive-loading circuit is matched at
comparatively low frequency, the composite -loaded
circuit is deemed to be matched over a wide bandwidth: it
degenerates into the -loaded circuit at low frequency, thus
matched, and becomes the -loaded circuit at high fre-
quency and matched again. Now the wide-band input matching
mechanism can be soundly explained. With a series
used as the transistor’s output loading circuit while an inductor
is connecting its source to ground, Fig. 8 shows the simu-
lated input reflection coefficient of this transistor circuit. Here,
curves 1–5 have and , respectively,
Fig. 9. Simulated input reflection coefficient of the wide-band transistor circuit
with different values of L . (a) On the Smith chart, curves 1–5 correspond to
L = 0; 100;200;300, and 400 fF, respectively, while C and R are
held constant at 475 fF and 40 
. (b) The same simulated results in decibels
versus gigahertz.
and all five curves are with fF and pH.
Clearly, curve 3 presents the most desired wide-band charac-
teristic. As for curve 2, its hook-shaped on the Smith chart
resembles the circled input reflection coefficient contour of a
typical wide-band LNA.
Fig. 9 concerns the impact on of the source inductor :
curves 1–5 are with pH, respec-
tively, and all have fF and . Though it
is curve 3 that is most coveted, other values of retain, to a
certain degree, the wide-band characteristic, as tends to be
running flat at high frequency. This suggests that what is most
critical to a wide-band transistor circuit is the value of its output
loading impedance.
III. NOISE TEMPERATURE ANALYSIS
For a transistor with and at temperature
, its noise temperature can be expressed in terms of the
generator impedance or the generator admit-
tance as
(13)
Thus, the increase with frequency of the noise temperature
comes mainly from and, to a lesser extent, from . By
using an input inductor to mitigate the capacitive effect, noise
temperature of a narrow-band transistor circuit can be greatly
reduced at one frequency point.
To derive the noise-temperature expression for the wide-band
circuit, its output loading needs to be replaced by a
short circuit. Since the input noise temperature of a two-port cir-
cuit is a function of its generator impedance, but not its output
loading impedance, this short-circuit arrangement is legitimate
with the additional advantage of simplifying the derivation pro-
cedure. To avoid the mathematical entanglement while retain
the underlying physics, capacitor will be omitted here.
First, the relationship between the output current and
noise current , which is generated by at temperature
, has to be constructed, as indicated in Fig. 10(a). Since
1282 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 54, NO. 3, MARCH 2006
Fig. 12. Raytheon transistor and its S-parameters measured on-wafer. (a) In
this photograph, the wide air-bridges are connecting the source to the ground on
top and bottom. (b) In the measured S-parameters, the solid curves correspond
to V = 1:0 V and I = 12 mA; the dashed curves are with V = 0:6 V and
I = 12 mA.
Fig. 13. Impact of the gate bias resistor on the circuit’s noise temperature.
(a) A thin-film resistor (TFR) can be used for the transistor’s gate bias. (b) Noise
temperature of the transistor circuit with different gate bias schemes employed.
are less than 1 A. Once extracted [26], parameters corre-
sponding to the solid curves are used in this paper’s discussion
of wide-band input matching.
One concern in designing the wide-band LNA is about the
implementation of the gate bias circuit, especially that of the
first-stage transistor since it will directly affect the circuit’s
noise performance. For a narrow-band LNA operating at the
millimeter-wave frequency range, a grounded quarter-wave
transmission line can be used since it behaves like an open
circuit for the incoming signal [27]. However, the required
quarter-wave line is too large to be implemented into the
intended 10–20-GHz circuit chip; one viable option is using a
large resistor, which is intrinsically wide-band and can be low
loss. For a gate bias resistor , the increased noise tem-
perature due to its thermal noise is ,
where is the ambient temperature. With 50- generator
impedance, a 600- gate bias resistor contributes at least 24 K,
to say nothing of the incoming signal loss.
Since in the real circuit a lumped resistor has to be realized
as a thin-film resistor, as in Fig. 13(a), its parasitic shunt capac-
itance will inevitably deteriorate the LNA’s noise performance.
Fig. 13(b) compares the noise impact of different gate bias
schemes: curve 1 is without any gate bias and is omitted;
curve 2 now has included, but still has no gate bias circuit;
curve 3 has , and an ideal lumped 600- resistor is used for
gate bias; curve 4 adds an additional 40-fF parasitic capacitor
in parallel with this 600- lumped resistor; curve 5 replaces
Fig. 14. Layout of the 10–20-GHz matched LNA. This three-stage circuit,
with transistors numbered 1–3, has dimension of 2000 750 100 m and
is fabricated by Raytheon.
Fig. 15. Schematic of the 10–20-GHz matched LNA. The resistance is in
ohms and the capacitance is in femtofarads. Here, S and S are the input
reflection coefficients into circuits indicated by their respective arrows. The air
bridge indicated can be removed using a needle probe, thus allows the gate of
the first-stage transistor to be separately biased.
the lumped resistor and its parasitic capacitor with a 600-
thin-film resistor that is 5- m wide and 500- m long with
6- /square sheet resistivity; curve 6 takes a different approach
by using an ideal 2000- m bond wire for gate bias. With the
goal of minimizing the bias circuit’s noise impact, the off-chip
scheme offers the best result. If out-of-band low-frequency
is also desired to be small, this long bond wire’s other end
can be connected to a 50- resistor without increasing much
in-band noise.
The 10–20-GHz LNA is a three-stage amplifier with common
drain and gate biases, and is fabricated by Raytheon. It has di-
mensions of 2000 750 100 m , as in Fig. 14, where color
shading have been inverted to highlight the constituting com-
ponents. Fig. 15 shows the schematic of this LNA where the
capacitance is in femtofarads and the resistance is in ohms. The
indicated air bridge on the gate of the first stage can be removed
using a needle probe, thus allows the first-stage transistor to
be biased off-chip. and are the input reflection co-
efficients looking into the indicated direction. Compared with
the 100- /square thin-film resistivity provided by TRW (now
NGST), the 6- /square resistivity in this Raytheon fabrication
process, though suitable for applications preferring a small tem-
perature coefficient, tends to arouse more noise.
The drain bias circuit of the first-stage transistor is composed
of a rectangular spiral inductor and a 30- resistor; drain bias cir-
cuits of the second and third stages have their respective induc-
tors realized using narrow transmission lines. This approach not
1284 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 54, NO. 3, MARCH 2006
Fig. 19. Schematic of the transistor circuit and its simulated noise temperature
with 50-
 generator impedance. (a) In the schematic, R is assumed to be at
ambient temperature, while R is at temperature T . (b) In the simulated
T , solid curves 1–6 correspond to the transistor circuit with no L and the
correlation coefficient between R -induced noise voltage and R -induced
noise current is 0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0, respectively. The six dashed
curves are for the transistor circuit with 200-pH L and the noise correlation
coefficient is changing from 0 to 1 again.
Fig. 20. Measured and simulated noise characteristics of the LNA on-wafer at
room temperature. (a) The solid curves are the measured 4T N; T and T ;
the accompanying dashed curves are their simulated counterparts with noise
correlation coefficient changing from 0 to 1. (b) The measured and simulated
  .
When a small gate resistor is included for better transistor
modeling [31], [32], noise temperature of the transistor circuit,
like that of Fig. 19(a), will now be a function of the correla-
tion coefficient between the noise voltage from at tempera-
ture and the noise current from at temperature .
The simulated results are presented in Fig. 19(b) where the solid
curves are without any , while dashed curves have a 200-pH
source inductor added to the transistor. Curves 1–6 corre-
spond to correlation value of 0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0, re-
spectively. Here, is set to 1 and is assumed to be
2300 K. Due to the difficulty in carrying out noise-parameter
measurement accurately down to the transistor level [33], dif-
ferent (rather than one specific) values of the correlation coeffi-
cient are used in the LNA’s noise simulation.
Fig. 20 shows both the measured and simulated noise charac-
teristics of the LNA on-wafer at room temperature with
set to 2300 K. The solid curves are the measured results with
LNA biased at 36 mA and 1.1 V, and the dashed curves are
the simulated counterparts with the noise correlation coefficient
changing from 0 to 1, with step size equal to 0.2. It is the LNA’s
small and large at 3 GHz that set the low-frequency limit
in the noise measurement; the 18-GHz high-frequency measure-
ment limit is imposed by the available frequency range of the
Fig. 21. Packaged LNA with the integrated circuit inside. The input and output
50-
 transmission lines are on the Duroid 3010 substrate. In addition to the two
capacitors for drain and gate biases, a third capacitor is added at the input of the
circuit for dc-blocking purpose.
Fig. 22. S-parameters and noise temperature of the packaged LNA at room
temperature. (a) Measured S-parameters of this packaged LNA. S is below
 20 dB and not displayed here. (b) Measured noise temperature with 50-

generator impedance.
noise source itself. The LNA’s noise parameters, as measured
on-wafer using a wide-band frequency-variation method [34],
has its in-band ratio equal to 1.7, which is a rea-
sonable number. The high-frequency discrepancy between the
simulated and measured curves can be accounted for in terms
of the slightly smaller in the simulation at high frequency.
Revised modeling of the constituting components should result
in more agreeing curves, thus minimizes the noise temper-
ature difference. Simulated , nevertheless, shows little de-
pendency on the noise correlation coefficient and is close to the
measured one.
The packaged LNA is shown in Fig. 21. Both the input and
output 50- microstrip lines are on a 10-mil Duroid 3010 sub-
strate, which has a large dielectric constant and is easy to handle,
but tends to be lossy at high frequency. The circuit is attached
using silver epoxy to the gold-plated copper chassis, which is
designed to have isolation better than 40 dB at 20 GHz when the
amplifier circuit is not biased. Since the on-chip input capacitor
has been short circuited accidentally, an external chip capacitor
for dc blocking has to be added. Due to the unleveled top sur-
faces of this chip capacitor and the amplifier circuit, a longer
1-mil input bond wire has to be used, and that causes the LNA’s
to be matched at the slightly lower 10 and 15 GHz. A more
agreeable should be obtained by using a connector-type
dc-blocking capacitor at the input. Fig. 22 shows the measured
-parameters and noise temperature of this packaged LNA. The
