In this report, we demonstrate the numerical results of IQE and EQE enhancements of a 
radiation dipole when it is coupled with SP modes generated on a grating interface between a 
half-space of Ag and a half-space of GaN. Because this research means to reveal the 
fundamental characteristics of SP coupling, the detailed device structure is not considered 
such that the device EQE cannot be evaluated. Instead, a quasi-EQE (QEQE) is defined to 
represent the emission efficiency after the factors of SP loss and SP grazing-angle radiation 
are taken into account. The dependencies of IQE and QEQE on the dipole position relative to 
the grating phase are illustrated. Based on the assumption of incoherent superposition, the 
average IQE and QEQE, including the contributions of multiple dipoles at different positions, 
are evaluated. The numerical calculations are performed using the plane-wave-assisted 
boundary integral-equation method [8]. For computation, we discretize the unknown 
equivalent surface currents on all boundaries and interfaces by expanding them with the local 
linear bases. Then the Galerkin testing procedure is used to transfer the whole integral 
equation into a matrix equation. 
Figure 1 shows the enhancement factors of the dipole radiation rate and the 
downward-propagating emission [7] in a problem geometry shown in the insert. Here, a 
one-dimensional grating interface of 80 nm in period (denoted by a80) divides the space into 
a half-space of Ag and a half-space of GaN (with a fixed refractive index at 2.5). The shape of 
grooves is described by a super-Gaussian function. The permittivity of Ag is assumed to 
follow the Drude model [9] with the angular plasma frequency set at ωp = 1.19×1016 (rad·s-1) 
and damping constant set at γ = 1.33×1014 (rad·s-1), leading to the surface plasmon polariton 
(SPP) resonance energy of 2.92 eV (425 nm in wavelength) at the plane Ag/GaN interface. 
Two dipoles denoted by p1 and p2 are located at 10 nm right below a grating valley, with the 
coordinate at (0, -20nm), and at 20 nm right below a crest of the grating, with the coordinate 
at (40nm, -20nm), respectively. The dipoles are extended infinitely in the +z and –z directions 
to form a two-dimensional problem. Because Ag is infinitely thick, only the 
downward-propagating emission (denoted by DE in Fig. 1) is detectable. The definitions of 
IQE and QEQE are given by ηint = Prad/(Prad+Pnon) and ηqext = Pdown/(Prad+Pnon), respectively. 
Here Prad denotes the total radiated power by the dipole source, Pdown is the 
downward-propagating emission power, and Pnon is the power corresponding to the 
non-radiative recombination, which can be calculated for a given intrinsic IQE value. 
In Fig. 1, the curves of RR-p1 and DE-p1 (RR-p2 and DE-p2) represent the enhancement 
factors of the dipole radiation rate and the downward-propagating emission, respectively, 
when dipole p1 (p2) is coupled with the generated SP modes on the grating. The differences 
between the RR and DE curves are attributed to the SP dissipation loss and the SP 
grazing-angle radiation. The three peaks in the case of p1 originate from the SPP on the plane 
Ag/GaN interface (around 430 nm), the localized surface plasmon (LSP) corresponding to the 
groove shape (around 470 nm), and the SPP corresponding to the grating of 80 nm in period 
(around 510 nm). In the case of p2, the aforementioned three peaks can still be seen even 
though their peak positions are slightly shifted and the relative intensities are changed. The 
lower LSP feature around 480 nm in the p2 case is due to the longer distance of p2 from the 
semiconductor groove of either side. The spectral shifts of the peaks show that the excited SP 
mode energy is dependent on the dipole position. In the p2 case, both radiation and emission 
enhancements show long tails on the long-wavelength side. There is a strong peak of radiation 
enhancement around 680 nm. This feature of insignificant downward-propagating emission is 
related to a mixture of SPP and LSP modes and will be elucidated elsewhere. 
 
IQE up to 35 % (up to 3.5 times) in the green range (around 520 nm). However, when the 
intrinsic IQE is increased to 50 %, only up to 1.5 times enhancement in QEQE can be 
achieved through the SP coupling. In other words, the SP-coupling induced QEQE 
enhancement becomes less significant as the intrinsic IQE increases. This result is reasonable 
because a high intrinsic IQE or low non-radiative recombination rate implies that the photon 
emission channel through SP coupling does not necessarily help in emission because of the 
extra loss channels of SP dissipation and grazing-angle radiation. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 QEQEs as functions of wavelength for the cases shown in Fig. 2. 
 
From Figs. 2 and 3, one can see the different contributions of dipoles p1 and p2 to IQE 
and QEQE. Dipoles at different lateral positions are supposed to result in different levels of 
IQE and QEQE. Figure 4 shows the IQE and QEQE at 460 nm with the intrinsic IQE at 50 % 
when the dipole is located at different x coordinates. Two grating periods of 80 (a80) and 108 
(a108) nm are considered. Here, one can see that although the IQEs can always be enhanced 
up to >70 %, only those dipoles located around the grating valleys can make the QEQE 
slightly higher than the intrinsic IQE. Figure 5 shows the IQE and QEQE at 520 nm with the 
intrinsic IQE at 10 % when the dipole is located at different x coordinates. In this situation, 
except those dipoles located around the grating valleys, QEQEs can always higher than the 
intrinsic IQE in either case of grating period. 
 
 
Fig. 4 IQEs and QEQEs at 460 nm as functions of dipole position x when the intrinsic IQE is 50 % 
(the horizontal dotted line) for the two cases of different grating periods at 80 (a80) and 108 (a108) 
nm. 
 
a108-IQE a80-IQE 
a108-QEQE a80-QEQE 
p2-b 
p2-a 
I-b 
p1-b 
p1-a 
I-a 
