2of EEG signals to communicate between
humans and computers.
Several researches suggest that μ and/or
βrhythms could be good signal features for
EEG-based communication [3]-[7]. These
rhythms are associated with those cortical
areas most directly connected to the brain’s 
normal motor output channels. This study
aims to develop and evaluate statistical
pattern recognition techniques as means of
utilizing the EEG to noninvasively identify
target locations in a cursor movement control
experiment. In the cursor control task, a
number of normal subjects are trained to
modify their μ waves (and/orβwaves) in
order to learn to move the cursor towards the
designated target position on a computer
screen. Such a control is one-dimensional
and continuous, that is, the cursor is moved
horizontally at a fixed velocity and vertically
under user control, since the amplitude of μ 
wave may be altered in a continuous manner
during a single trial. A retrospective signal
analysis procedure consisting of feature
extraction, pattern classification, and
performance evaluation is investigated in this
study.
The pattern recognition analysis is
performed on an existing database of
self-controlled brain waves obtained during a
cursor movement control trial. First, the
objective in feature extraction is to compute a
smal set of “indicators” (or features, to be 
exactly) summarizing the EEG information
relevant to classifying a single cursor
movement trial with respect to the target
location designated in that trial. In this aspect,
we hypothesize that a total least squares (TLS)
based Prony modeling analysis provides a
quantitative marker of brain states when a
subject intends to move a cursor. Secondly,
the classification step is the design of a
decision rule that optimally utilizes the
information summarized by the extracted
features. The design problem here is
choosing the best set of features to measure
and then determining the most suitable
classification procedures to optimally classify
the feature set. Moreover, for practical
applications of a BCI into on-line control the
paper also discusses the issues involving the
implementation of the feature extraction and
classification schemes in realistic real-time
situations.
In addition, our study has also used a
documented general-purpose BCI research
and development platform called BCI2000.
In general, BCI2000 can incorporate alone or
in combination any brain signals, signal
processing methods, output devices, and
operating protocols. To date, many
researchers have used BCI2000 to create BCI
systems for a variety of brain signals,
processing methods, and applications. It is
available with full documentation and free of
charge for research or educational purposes
and is currently being used in a variety of
studies by many research groups. Therefore,
we also implemented and integrated the
proposed algorithm into the BCI 2000 system
and evaluated its performance on a more
practical occasion.
三、研究方法
In this study, a design of BCI that aims
at controlling the cursor movement through
the use of μ and/orβwaves via a computer is
investigated. A number of subjects were
trained first and then learned to modify their
μ andβwaves [3], [8]. Each subject sat in
front of a computer screen during the entire
control process, and used his/her continuous
scalp EEG signals recorded from a number of
chosen electrodes to perform the cursor
control. Note that here 64 channels of
ear-referenced scalp EEG were
synchronously measured during a trial [3],
[8], [10]. In fact, only a subset of the
electrodes over sensorimotor cortex were
chosen to perform the online cursor
movement control. Each time as a new trial
started a target bar would show up on the
right edge of the screen at one of the four
possible positions. The subjects used μ 
and/or β rhythm amplitudes to control
vertical cursor movement towards the
vertical position of a target located at the
right edge of the computer screen while the
cursor moved horizontally at a fixed velocity.
A schematic diagram of the control
process within a trial is provided by Fig. 1.
We may see from Fig. 1 that each trial started
43.1 Algorithm Training Process
In the training phase, the multi-snapshot
Prony modeling parameters in (1) are first
estimated by a TLS technique. For each
subject a number of common poles
corresponding to the μ wave (10-15 Hz [2])
and/or βwave (23-28 Hz [2]) bands should
be found at this phase. The analysis will be
performed on the EEG signals recorded since
the beginning of stage 3 (i.e., the cursor
appears on the left side of the screen) till the
end of stage 4 (i.e., the cursor arrives at the
right side of the screen) for about two
seconds. In addition, in our study the
common poles are estimated only using the
training classes top (target 1) and up (target 2)
because we expect that for these two classes
the subjects would try to make the cursor
move upwards so that the μ and/or βwaves
might be significant. After training over a
number of sessions, a set of the common
poles will be obtained. We then select those
coresponding to the μ and β bands and kept 
the most significant two in each frequency
band for each subject. Fig. 2 summarizes the
flow of finding the common poles.
Table 1 gives an example of common
poles found for a subject. The four
predominant CE poles as shown in Table 1
are to form a set of the common spectral
patterns used for representing the brain state
regarding the cursor control task for the
subject. We then project all the EEG signals
onto the common spectral patterns to obtain
their amplitude estimates (or the projections)
using the standard least squares algorithm,
i.e., each EEG signal is fitted by a four-pole
model. Fig. 3 gives the high-resolution power
spectral densities of the modeling signals
averaged over all training trials in a session
for the four target classes, respectively. The
figure shows that the control of cursor
movement is clearly focused on the
predominant frequencies of μ/β rhythms.
Also, we may see from the figure that the
user tended to increase the magnitudes of μ 
and βwaves to move a cursor towards the
target positions at the upper side of the screen,
while to decrease them to move towards the
targets at the lower side.
3.2 Feature Extraction
We calculate the cumulative μ andβ
energy sequences in as described in the above
for all the 2-s EEG data recordings
corresponding to the rest four designated
channels: CP1, CP3, CP5, and P3. As a result,
for each trial in a session we obtain a set of
five cumulative μ energy sequences:
and also a set of five cumulative β energy 
sequences:
Then, the features can be chosen from these
energy sequences or their combinations to
provide clustering among individual samples
of a class and the best possible separation
between classes so that the classifier can
unambiguously assign a given incoming
signal to the correct class. According to the
numerical results, for this subject the
cumulative μ/βenergies extracted from the
input EEG signals measured from channels
C3 and CP3 appeared to have more
significant magnitudes during the control
process, and also permitted more clear
separations among the four target classes.
Therefore, we finally defined two feature
signals, Eμ(m) and Eβ(m), respectively due to
the μ and β components for vertical cursor 
movement control by linearly combining the
cumulative energies from both channels, that
is,
(2)
(3)
In some sense, both Eμ(m) and Eβ(m) can be
also viewed as cumulative energy functions.
Fig. 4 shows the plots composed of mean
curves of Eμ(m) and Eβ(m) respectively
resulting from averaging over all the trials in
a session for the four target classes,
respectively. The subsequent pattern
classification task is thus to determine the
classifier value to optimally classify the
feature set defined by (2) and (3), and details
and steps regarding this application will be
discussed in the next Section.
3.3 Pattern Classification
In general, the classification is based on
a set of selected features that are measured
6(denoted as c34) can be determined as well. A
decision rule for target position classification
is thus formulated as
(5)
In order to evaluate the actual
performance of the classifier algorithm, it is
certainly necessary to test the algorithm
“blinded.” That is, set the thresholds on 
known classes and then take an unknown
recording and see how well it performs with
preset cut values. The scatter plot in Fig. 6(a)
illustrates how the linear classifier performs.
We may see that the two-dimensional feature
space plot in Fig. 6(a) is the same as that
shown in Fig. 5. In fact, in this plot both
features were extracted from the EEG
recordings of a test data set (i.e., a set that is
different from the training set). As mentioned
early in this section, the linear mapping
vector l and all the cut lines as indicated in
the plot were all obtained after training over
the full set of EEG data with known targets.
As a result, the classifier produced about
76% of correctness (155 out of 204 trials) for
the task of target position prediction for this
test data set. In fact, the linear one feature y
can be viewed as an alternative indicator
used for predicting the target location, as
illustrated in Fig. 6(b). Moreover, it should
be noted that although here we only present
how to use the feature signals to perform a
“trial-wise” classification, the proposed 
pattern recognition method can be easily
implemented in realistic on-line situations,
thus allowing practical applications of a BCI
into real-time control.
四、結果與討論
The EEG data used for performance
evaluation in this study are provided by the
BCI Competition 2003 [3], [8]. Each session
contained six runs and there were 32
individual trials in a run, which gave 192
trials in total for each session.
The task of feature extraction was
performed by a short-time Prony modeling
analysis on the digitized EEG from five
channels over the sensorimotor cortex: C3,
CP1, CP3, CP5, and P3. Each channel of EEG
was re-referenced to a common average
reference before being submitted to the
analysis [10]. In fact, the choice of such a
electrode combination was subject-specific
and can be determined at the training phase.
In this study, Eμ(m) and Eβ(m) were
determined by CP3 and P3 for subject A,
while by C3 and CP3 for subjects B and C.
Finally, for pattern classification the last
values of the cumulative μ and βenergy
sequences were selected as a
two-dimensional feature vector [Eμ(K) Eβ
(K)]t (K = 21 for subjects A and B, while K =
17 for subject C) for each trial. The classifier
based on an LDF with a set of cut values
obtained by training over the full set of the
database with known classes was then used
for predicting the target location. The
procedures of our feature extraction and
pattern classification are summarized in Fig.
7.
Further, it should be noted that the
practice of using the same datasets both to
design and test a classifier may produce
misleading results. In this study we evaluated
the classifier algorithm based on the
leave-one-out testing. In fact, the
leave-one-out is attractive especially when
the number of data sets is small since it
actually employs all the data sets in the
design each time, and meanwhile, all of the
data sets are also used in the tests [11].
As a result, the classification results of
the labeled sessions obtained after applying
the leave-one-out approach for subjects A, B
and C are listed in Tables 2–4, respectively.
Also, numerical results of the overall
prediction accuracy averaged over all three
subjects are as shown in Table 5. It is
revealed from Table 5 that the proposed
method achieved over 61% of overall
accuracy in performance. Note that according
to the probabilistic law if the classification is
made just by chance, the expected accuracy
should be 25% (one out of four targets).
Obviously, the classification results
presented here are certainly far better than the
expected accuracy.
8event-related desynchronization mapping, J.
Clin. Neurophysiol. (1989) 75-84.
[6] G. Pfurscheller and C. Neuper, Motor
imagery and direct brain computer
communication, Proceedings of the IEEE
(2001) 1123-1134.
[7] G. Pfurscheller, EEG event-related
desynchronization (ERD) and event-related
synchronization (ERS),
Electroencephalography: basic principles,
clinical applications and related field, eds. E.
Niedermeyer and FH Lopes da Silva, pp.
958-967 (4th ed., Williams & Wilkins,
Baltimore MD, 1999).
[8] BCI competition 2003 (web page), B.
Blankertz. [Online]. Available:
http://ida.first.fraunhofer.de/projects/bci/com
petition ii/
[9] S.-W. Chen, A two stage discrimination
of cardiac arrhythmias using a total least
squares-based Prony modeling algorithm,
IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng. (2000)
1317-1327.
[10] D. J. McFarland, L. M. McCane, S. V.
David and J. R. Wolpaw, Spatial filter
selection for EEG-based communication,
Electroencephalogr. Clin. Neurophysiol.
(1997) 386-394.
[11] R. O. Duda and P. E. Hart, Pattern
Classification and Scene Analysis, John
Wiley & Sons, New York, NY, 1973.
Table 1: The predominant CE poles
coresponding to the μ and βbands obtained
after training. Note that here (p, q) = (168,
168).
Table 2: Classification results on the labeled
datasets (six sessions) obtained after applying
the leave-one-out approach for subject A.
Table 3: Classification results on the labeled
datasets (six sessions) obtained after applying
the leave-one-out approach for subject B.
Table 4: Classification results on the labeled
datasets (five sessions) obtained after
applying the leave-one-out approach for
subject C.
Table 5: Overall prediction accuracies
averaged over all subjects for the proposed
method.
Figure 1: The process for a trial (4-target
task). (1) a new trial started with a blank
computer screen, (2) one of the targets was
presented on the screen, (3) the cursor
showed up on the left side of the screen and
began to move across the screen, (4) in a
two-second period, the cursor moved with its
vertical movement controled by the user’s 
brain wave, (5) the target flashed when it is
hit by the cursor or the cursor flashed when it
is missed.
10
Figure 7: Procedure of the proposed BCI
algorithm.
Figure 8: Output screens for implementation
of the cursor movement trial on BCI2000
platform. Note that here sensorimotor rhythm
control is adopted for the task of cursor
movement.
六、計畫成果自評
本研究所開發出的一個新式多通道腦
波特徵擷取演算法經系統模擬與驗證後，
已可供實際的腦機介面系統之相關應用，
除與原計畫設定研究內容大致相符外，且
亦已達成預期目標。此外，對於學術研究
而言，本計畫完成後預計可以發表1-2 篇
SCI 期刊論文，將有助於提升本國在腦機
介面相關方面的學術研究。另一方面，參
與本計畫之研究生亦可獲得軟體設計、訊
號處理及嵌入式系統設計的訓練，同時配
合本系所開設之相關課程，如生醫電子
學、數位訊號處理、類神經網路、醫學訊
號處理等，獲得應有的理論基礎，對於其
將來投身電子電機、醫療科技產業，或是
進一步從事學術研究，將有極大的助益。
