11 前言
半導體產業的製造加工流程，往往需要數百個步驟，耗時數個月，才能加工完畢，倘若加
工過程中因為機台出了問題而導致加工停滯不前，那麼勢必導致一些產品出貨的時程延誤，引
起產能的降低，造成業者莫大的損失。
目前半導體產業所設計的堆貨成因分析系統，都是由單一人員進行整體架構的規劃，並且
使用固定程式判斷邏輯進行堆貨原因的分析，如此，將會造成以下的問題：
 當機台發生堆貨時，固定邏輯的程式通常只能分析關聯性較單純的堆貨成因。然而生
產線上發生堆貨時，通常堆貨成因有許多關聯性，也因此，使得判斷堆貨因素的規則千變萬化。
這樣的問題，我們可以利用知識擷取方法去導引專家將判斷堆貨原因的規則擷取出來，便能夠
了解各個堆貨原因之間的關聯性。
 堆貨成因分析系統的判斷邏輯若僅靠資訊人員一個人決定，便無法觀察到廠房裡機台
整體的製造過程，所分析的結果導致過於主觀，在邏輯的判斷上就可能會造成疏忽，分析結果
自然也就無法達到真正的成效。我們可以利用多專家系統將多位專家的知識擷取出來並加以整
合，以產生客觀的分析規則，而不再有單一專家判斷邏輯過於主觀的問題。
 傳統以固定邏輯所開發出的分析程式缺乏調整判斷規則的彈性，因此無法讓決策人員
得到適當的協助。我們可以靠專家系統將知識及規則存入知識庫及規則庫中，如此可以方便於
參數的新增、修改、刪除、查詢，以解決了每修改參數就必需連同程式一同修改的問題。
從以上所歸納的三點，可以清楚的瞭解必須靠多位專家分析機台堆貨成因的知識納入系
統，才能避免系統過於主觀的缺陷。因此，本計劃開發出一套機台堆貨成因分析系統(Pileup Cause
Analysis System，PICAS)。此套系統可以擷取出多位專家的知識並加以整合，而不再有單一專
家判斷邏輯過於主觀的問題，PICAS 並將整合後的知識儲存至知識庫以便於新增、修改、刪除、
查詢，亦解決了每修改參數就必需連同程式一同修改的問題。
2 研究目的
本計劃運用知識工程的技術，針對多位專家對於生產線上所有可能面臨的問題及解決方案
的經驗法則，進行萃取以及整合以設計一套機台堆貨成因分析系統(Pileup Cause Analysis
System，PICAS)，利用整合多專家知識之後所得到的規則，對於機台堆貨的成因進行分析，以
提供給半導體製造廠的決策人員使用。由於 PICAS 之決策知識乃萃取自多位機台管理專家，可
避免單一專家知識過於主觀的缺點；同時 PICAS 是以專家系統為設計基礎，其模糊規則可隨時
根據機台實際運作情況的改變而調整，因此 PICAS 可提供廠務對於機台上的管理較彈性且客觀
的分析結果。
3 文獻探討
本節將介紹相關研究與本論文應用製作系統時所使用的相關技術。本節將分為三節：3.1節
經由半導體晶圓生產製造流程的介紹可瞭解在如此錯綜複雜的製程中，各種影響機台加工的潛
在因素也隨之複雜。3.2節探討如何將探討目前現階段較好的知識擷取方法，並利用此方法擷取
機台的潛在因子。3.3節將探討如何將多位專家的知識擷取出來並加以整合。
33.2.3 模糊知識的擷取技術
傳統的知識表格無法將專家的語意表達出來，所以模糊知識表格（Fuzzy table）[18]被提出，
建構模糊表格的程序和知識表格法相類似，它的特點是可以將專家的語意強度轉化為模糊值，
成為知識產生的重要參數，不過此方法只能應用在單一專家上，本論文的旨意在於以多專家的
知識為基礎去分析機台堆貨成因，既然是多位專家的知識就必須將知識做整合，故我們在2.3節
中探討知識整合的技術。
3.3 知識整合的技術
在建置專家系統時，為了取得較為客觀的推論規則，往往需要將多位專家的知識加以整合。
例如：多專家知識表格擷取（Multiple-Expert Repertory Grid Elicitation，MERGE）[9]、多專家
知識整合法（Fuzzy Integration for Numerous Experts，FINE） [12]，以下就介紹這兩種多專家的
知識整合方法。
3.3.1 多專家知識表格擷取
多專家知識表格擷取（MERGE）是一種以知識表格（Repertory Grid）為基礎的方法[9]，
用以擷取並整合多專家的知識，如此一來可以有系統的自多專家環境下擷取並整合知識，但是
如果要加入專家的語意強度，那麼多專家知識表格擷取（MERGE）就無法進行知識的整合工作，
為了解決這種問題，另一種方法本論文將會在下一節中解釋這種演進後的方法。
3.3.2多專家知識整合法
多專家知識整合法（FINE）是一種以知識表格（Repertory Grid）為基礎 [9]，評等的方法
則是改良自傳統的成對比較矩陣的模糊變量成對比較矩陣，除了原來的評定值之外，它還加上
了模糊值，可以處理語意強度方面的問題，以做為更精確計算的參數,流程如下圖所示。
多專家知識擷取法（FINE）不但可以從多專家環境下擷取並整合知識，亦可依照不同的專
家因擅長不同的領域而對專家有不同的評等，並增加了利用模糊變量用以清楚地表達專家內心
對概念的評等，藉此能夠了解各概念之間的相對重要性，另外它也可以處理專家對談中語意強
度的問題，將語意強度轉換成確定值。既然多專家知識擷取法（FINE）有如此多優點，本論文
將利用它來擷取並整合機台堆貨原因的知識。
概念表格一 概念表格二 概念表格n
概念協調 概念
資料庫
共同概念表格
共通目標/概念表格
模糊規則 知識庫
專家一 專家二 專家n
…
…
5依此系統架構，專家們可以透過多專家知識擷取與整合系統來產生模糊規則；工廠資料庫經
過資料轉換後利用機台堆貨成因分析系統產生媒合資料，模糊規則與媒合資料比對後，機台堆
貨成因分析系統將結果回饋給使用者，同時也將結果儲存起來，以便使用者可以查詢機台堆貨
成因。
4.2.1多專家知識擷取與整合子系統
多專家知識擷取與整合子系統之架構如下圖所示。
資料分
析轉換
多專家知識
擷取與整合系統
知識
模糊規則
產生
機台堆貨
成因分析與預警系統
工廠
資料庫 媒合資料
產生
媒合
比對
儲存媒合比對之結果
使用者
查詢機台堆貨成因
專家
機台堆貨預警
知識擷取模組
知識整合模組
規則產生模組
規則庫
知識庫
專家知識擷取暨整合系統
7機台堆貨成因分析系統負責的工作是當工廠機台發生堆貨的現象時，分析問題的來源為
何，並提供使用者查詢機台堆貨的成因。這個系統包括了：工廠資料庫、媒合資料庫、分析及
轉換資料模組、規則媒合模組及歷史紀錄資料庫等，藉由專家知識擷取整合子系統產生的模糊
規則與機台堆貨成因分析系統的媒合資料庫媒合，比對完成之後將所發生的事件儲存於歷史紀
錄資料庫中。實作完成之系統介面如下圖所示：
5 結果與討論
為驗證本計劃成果之可行性，本計劃獲得國內某知名半導體廠之首肯，實際上線測試一段
時間後，給予決策人員一份問卷填寫既有的系統與 PICAS 之滿意程度，問卷調查的內容包括分
析結果滿意度、整體效能滿意度、操作滿意度、回應速度滿意度、查詢功能滿意度，如下圖所
示，
9Hwang (2004)， “Development of an Inteligent Management System for Monitoring Educational 
Web Servers”， The Eighth Pacific-Asia Confer- ence on Information Systems， Shanghai，
China， July 8-11， 2004.
[13] B.R.Gaines and M.L.G. Shaw，” New direc -tion in the analysis and interactive elicitation of
personal construct system，” International Journal of Man Machine Studies， Vol.13， 1980.
[14] B.R.Gaines and M.L.G. Shaw，” Induction of inference rules for expert system，” Fuzzy Sets and
Systems， No.18， 1986.
[15] B.R.Gaines， “An overview of knowledge- acquisition method which captures and transfer，” 
International Journal of Man Machine Studies， Vol.26， 1987.
[16] Y.D. Kimt， “A new branch and bound algorithm for minimizing mean tardiness in two-machine
flow shop，” Computers and Operations Research， 20， 1993.
[17]Gwo-Jen Hwang and S.S. Tseng， “Eliciting embedded meanings in building expert systems under 
uncertainty，” Ninth Annual International Phoenix Conference on Computers and
Communications， Phoenix， U.S.A，1990.
[18] G.A. Kelly， “The Psychology of Personal Constructs”， New York： Norton， 1955.
[19] P.J.M. Laarhoven and W. Pedrycz， “A fuzzy extension of saty’s priority theory”， Fuzzy Sets
and Systems， Vol. 11， 1983.
[20] M.L.G. Shaw and B.R.Gaines，“KITTEN： Knowledge initiation and transfer tools for experts
and novices，” International Journal of Man Machine Studies， Vol.27， 1987.
[21] M.L.G. Shaw & B.R.Gaines，“Modeling the social practices of users in Internet communities”，
Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference， New York： Springer， 1999.
[22] J. W. Wein，，“Scheduling Semiconductor Wafer Fabrication”， IEEE Transactions on
Semiconductor Manufacturing， Vol.1， No. 3， pp.115-130， Aug. 1988.
7 計畫成果自評
本計劃的研究內容與原計畫完全相符，並且 100%達成預期目標。同時本計劃之研究成果已
發表一篇 SCI 期刊論文：
[1] Judy C.R. Tseng, Chih-Hsiang Wu (2007/10), “An Expert System Approach to Improving
Stability and Reliability of Web Service”, toappear in Expert Systems With Applications, Vol. 33,
No. 2. (SCI, Impact Factor 1.247)
由於半導體產業為我國競爭力的主要來源之一，本研究計畫之成果深具實際應用之價值，
後續可進一步尋求合作企業進行技術轉移，以落實本計劃研究成果之推廣。
表 Y04
Christina Keing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Judy Lo, The Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Paul Lam, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong; Carmel
McNaught, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
10:00 AM
An Exploratory Study Of The Open Source Software Environment In A Software Engineering Graduate
Course
Xun Ge, University of Oklahoma, USA; Yifei Dong, University of Oklahoma, USA; Kun Huang,
University of Oklahoma, USA
10:30 AM
Developing EFL Students' Hypertext Reading Strategy Awareness
Mohamed Badawi, English Language Department, Tabouk University, Teachers' College, Saudi
Arabia; Wafi Albalawi, Computer Science Department, Tabouk University,Teachers' College, Saudi
Arabia
10:00 AM
Design-based research and doctoral students: Guidelines for preparing a dissertation proposal
Jan Herrington, University of Wollongong, Australia; Susan McKenney, University of Twente,
Netherlands; Thomas Reeves, University of Georgia, USA; Ron Oliver, Edith Cowan University,
Australia
10:30 AM
Lifecycle Information Management and Utilization in an Authoring by Aggregation Environment
Lasse Lehmann, KOM - TU-Darmstadt, Germany; Christoph Rensing, KOM - TU-Darmstadt,
Germany; Ralf Steinmetz, KOM - TU-Darmstadt, Germany
10:00 AM
A Self-Assessment Tool to Help Learners Develop Teamwork Skills
Mark McMahon, Edith Cowan University, Australia; Joe Luca, Edith Cowan University, Australia;
Christina John, University of Applied Sciences, Kiel, Germany
10:30 AM
Explorations in measuring metacognition: the design of an open source assessment instrument for an
online setting
Barnard Clarkson, ECU, Australia; Mark McMahon, ECU, Australia
10:00 AM
Development of a Ubiquitous Virtual Tutoring Assistant System
Ji-Wei Wu, Yea-Han Tsou, Chuang-Kai Chiou, Judy C.R. Tseng, Department of Computer Science
and Information Engineering, Chung Hua University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan, ROC, Taiwan
10:30 AM E-Language Laboratory; Large Scale e-Learning Environment for Japanese Language EducationKohji Shibano, Tokyo University of Foreign Studies, Japan
10:00 AM
Getting Ahead at University: Using Reusable Learning Objects to Enhance Study Skills
Debbie Holley, London Metropolitan University, UK; John Cook, Carl Smith, Claire Bradley, Richard
Haynes, Centre of Excellence in Teaching and Learning in Reusable Learning Objects, UK
10:30 AM Developing Language Competence in a Bilingual Story Sharing ForumNicolas Hine, University of Dundee, UK
10:00 AM SketchUML: The Design of a Sketch-based Tool for UML Class DiagramsLin Qiu, State University of New York at Oswego, USA
10:30 AM
Heuristic Evaluations of Computer Assisted Assessment Environments
Gavin Sim, University of Central Lancashire, UK; Janet C Read, University of Central Lancashire, UK;
Phil Holifield, University of Central Lancashire, UK; Martin Brown, University of Central Lancashire,
UK
10:00 AM
From the Dead Sea Scrolls to Social Sports, passing through European History: an Effective
Pedagogical Format Based on 3D Worlds
Caterina Poggi, Politecnico di Milano, Italy; Aldo Torrebruno, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
10:30 AM
Developing and Validating the Intentional Internet Search Behavior scale
Chun-Ping Wu, Syracuse University, USA; Tiffany A Koszalka, Syracuse University, USA; Shu-Ling
Wu, National Penghu University, Taiwan
10:00 AM Cláir Bhána Idirghníomhacha’ ( Interactive Whiteboards)–Early findings from an Irish ProjectMiriam Judge, Dublin City University, Ireland
10:30 AM Assessing Professional ePortfolios of Second Language LearnersElaine Martyn, University of Hong Kong, China
10:00 AM An adoption model for IT in secondary schools: The teacher perspectiveGabriel López-Morteo, Universidad Autonoma de Baja California, Mexico; Marcos Galaviz-Férman,
表 Y04
Development of a Ubiquitous Virtual Tutoring Assistant System
Ji-Wei Wu
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering
Chung Hua University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan, ROC
M09502050@ cc.chu.edu.tw
Yea-Han Tsou
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering
Chung Hua University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan, ROC
M09502059@cc.chu.edu.tw
Chuang-Kai Chiou
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering
Chung Hua University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan, ROC
m9002013@chu.edu.tw
Judy C.R. Tseng1
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering
Chung Hua University, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan, ROC
judycrt@chu.edu.tw
Abstract: Pedagogic scholars think that when a student is stuck on a certain problem while learning,
an instant tutoring assistant is very helpful to promote his/her study. Nevertheless, the teacher is not
always available to answer students’ question immediately. Moreover, it would be too 
time-consuming for a teacher to answer students’ questions one by one, especialy for a popular
e-course where there are thousands of students and most of the students’ questions are same-alike. In
this paper, a Ubiquitous Virtual Tutoring Assistant System (UVTAS) is developed to provide instant
assistants for students’learning problems. No matter where a student is, while he/she encounters or
thinks about a learning problem, he/she can obtain immediate solutions via his/her mobile device,
such as a cell-phone or a PDA. UVTAS not only provides a web-interface for mobile learners, it also
incorporates a SMS-interface of question-answering to support mobile learners while Internet access
is not available.
Keywords: e-Learning, Ubiquitous Computing, Tutoring Assistant
1. Introduction
The development of network not only facilitates the acquirement of information, but also highlights the value and
feasibility of e-learning. Most of the existing e-learning platforms focus on providing contents and performing
assessments, however, tutoring assistance is less to be considered.
Pedagogic scholars think that when a student is stuck on a certain problem while learning, an instant tutoring
assistant is very helpful to promote his/her study. Nevertheless, the teacher is not always available to answer students’ 
question immediately. Moreover, it would be too time-consuming for a teacher to answer students’ questions one by one, 
especially for a popular e-course where there are thousands of students and most of the students’ questions are 
same-alike.
In this paper, a Ubiquitous Virtual Tutoring Assistant System (UVTAS) is developed to provide instant assistants for
students’ learning problems. No mater where a student is, while he/she encounters or thinks about a learning problem, 
he/she can obtain immediate solutions via his/her mobile device, such as a cell-phone or a PDA. UVTAS records the
problems students ever asked, along with the solutions teachers provided, in its problem-solving base. When a new
problem is issued, UVTAS will search the problem-solving base to find the most-similar problem and provide the
associated solution to the student. If there is no similar problem found, UVTAS will automatically search through the
supplement-material base to find a suitable fragment of supplement material which might solve the student’s problem.
If the student is satisfied with the solution provided, UVTAS will add the new problem and the associated solution to
the problem-solving base for future problem solving. If unfortunately no suitable fragment of supplement material is
1
To whom all correspondence should be sent.
表 Y04
Problem
Problem
Matching
Module
Solution
Extraction
Module
Problem-
Solving
Base
Client Server
Solution
Learners
Teachers
Manual
Solution
Module
M
obile
U
serInterface
Supplement
Material
Base
Message
Solution
Material
maintenance
Module
M
obile
U
serInterface
Figure 1: The structure of the Ubiquitous Virtual Tutoring Assistant System
3.1 The Solution Extraction Module
The design of the solution extraction module, which is the most distinguishable feature of UVTAS, is shown in
Figure 2. The workflow is given as follows:
(1) Once a problem is passed onto, the solution extraction module will segment the words contained in the
problem.
(2) The stop words contained in the problem are identified and removed, and then a Characteristic Vector (CV) is
composed to represent the problem.
(3) The Google desktop search tool is invoked to select at most twenty related supplement materials for further
analysis.
(4) The semantic fragments contained in the candidate materials are then extracted.
(5) According to the titles, the page ranks, the abstracts of the candidate materials, semantic fragments the system
extracted are ranked.
(6) The solution of the problem is them selected according to the ranking result.
Word
Segmentation
Non-stop
Words
Extraction
Candidate
Material
Selection
Semantic
Fragment
Extraction
Fragment
Ranking
Solution
Selection
Stop
Words
Database
Supplement
Material
Base
Problem
Solution
Figure 2: The Solution Extraction Module
For selecting suitable fragments as solutions, the page ranks (R), the titles (T), the
abstracts (A) of the selected candidate supplement materials, as well as the semantic fragments
extracted from the candidate materials, are used in our ranking algorithm. The formula for
computing the similarity of the problem to a fragment of text is followed:
表 Y04
Figure 4: The SMS-interface for mobile learner
4. Experiments and Results Analysis
In order to evaluate the performance of problem-solving of the proposed system, three test banks are conducted in
the experiment as shown in Table 1. The test bank 1 includes the same problems exist in the problem-solving base. The
test bank 2 includes similar (but not the same) problems as those in the problem-solving base. The test bank 3 includes
general problems where no similar (or the same) problem exists in the problem-solving base.
Type of sample
Test bank 1 Existing problems
Test bank 2 Similar problems
Test bank 3 General problems
Table 1: Test banks used in the experiment
For each of the three test banks, two experiments are performed: (1) search solutions in the problem-solving base
(PSB) only; (2) search solutions both in the problem-solving base and the supplement material base (PSB+SMB). The
experiment results are shown in Figure 5 to Figure 7.
72%
84%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
PSB PSB+SMB
Figure 5: Comparison of the percentages of solved problems for test bank 1 (existing problems)
表 Y04
improvement on the percentage of solved problems for problems exist in the problem-solving base; 29% of
improvement for problems similar to the problem-solving base; 68% of improvement for problems that exist no similar
(or the same) problem in the problem-solving base. That proofs the superiority of UVTAS over previous virtual tutoring
systems which only search in the problem-solving base.
UVTAS is a self-growing ubiquitous problem solving system. The more problems the learners issued,
the more solutions records in the problem-solving base. As most of the problems students encountered
are similar, after being used for a certain period of time, UVTAS will be able to solve most of the
students’ problems without interference with the teachers. Moreover, teachers may add as many
supplement materials as they like to the supplement-material base of UVATS at their free time. The
more supplement materials add, the more possibility that UVTAS finds suitable fragments for solving
the problems, and thus more time is saved for the teachers to provide manual solutions.
The main innovative ideas of UVTAS based on two parts: first, the ubiquitous problem-solving
interfaces provided not only through web browsers but also through SMS, which make the ubiquitous
problem solving services possible for low-end cell-phones where no browser is built inside, as well
as for saving telecommunication cost of Internet connection; second, the design of supplement-material
base as well as the capability of automatically searching, analyzing, and extracting solutions from
the supplement-material base, which further relief the burden of solving problems manually by the
teachers.
In our experiments, we found that although some problems do not match any existing problem or
any fragment recorded in the system, they do contain some clues for finding solutions. For example,
there might be no solution for the problem “What is the architecture of a CPU?”, however, it is
possible that there is a solution for the problem “What is the von-Neuman machine?”. As we know
that nowadays the architecture of a CPU is actually a von-Neuman machine, if we can find out the strong
connection between the phrases “architecture of a CPU“ and “von-Neuman machine”, it is possible
to solve the problem “What is the architecture of a CPU?” by providing the solution of the problem
“What is the von-Neuman machine?”. In the future, a query expansion module (He et al. 2005; Lin
et al. 2006; Jones et al. 2006) will be added to UVTAS to deal with such kind of problems by considering
related phrases in the automatic problem-solving process.
Reference
He, T., Tu, X., Qu G. and Ji, D. (2005), Chinese Query Expansion Based on Related Term Group, Proceedings of 2005
IEEE International Conference on Natural Language Processing and Knowledge Engineering (NLP-KE’05)
Hwang, G.J. (2003), A Concept Map Model for Developing Intelligent Tutoring Systems, Computers & Education, 40
(3), 217-235.
Hwang, G.J., Hsiao, J.L., and Tseng, J.C.R. (2003), A Computer-Assisted Approach for Diagnosing Student Learning
Problems in Science Courses, Journal of Information Science and Engineering, 19 (2), 229-248.
Hwang, G.J., Lin, B.M.T. and Lin, T.L. (2006), An Effective Approach for Test-Sheet Composition from Large-Scale
Item Banks, Computers & Education, 46 (2), 122-139.
Jonassen, D.H. (2000), Computers as mind tools for schools, Merrill, Upper Saddle River: NJ.
Jones, R., Rey, B., Madani O. and Greiner, W. (2006), Generating Query Substitutions, Proceedings of the 15th
international conference on Word Wide Web, 387-396.
Lin, H.C., Wang, L.H. and Chen S.M. (2006), Query expansion for document retrieval based on fuzzy rules and user
relevance feedback techniques, Expert Systems with Applications 31, 397-405.
Rau, P.L. Patrick, Chen, S.H. and Chin, Y.T. (2004), Developing web annotation tools for learners and instructors,
Interacting with Computers, 16, 163-181.
Tseng, J.C.R. and Hwang G.J. (2004), A Novel Approach to Diagnosing Student Learning Problems in E-Learning
