I、Abstract： 
(一)中文摘要 
關鍵詞：週期結構，光子晶體，時域有限差分法，快速多偶極演算法，週期矩量法 
 
本國際合作計畫(國立中央大學與美國德州大學阿靈頓分校)主要目的為開發可分析以光子
晶體結構為基礎而設計之光學元件的電腦輔助工具(computer aided tool) ，為一規畫三年之
計畫，第一年計畫正執行中。計畫由中央大學陳念偉博士與美國德州大學阿靈頓分校陸明
宇(Mingyu Lu)博士與周緯東(Weidong Zhou)博士共同執行。中央大學主要負責電腦輔助設
計工具之開發，德州大學主要負責光學元件之設計與製作及電腦輔助設計工具之驗證。在
電腦輔助設計工具開發方面，中央大學將建立有效率及準確之時域(time-domain)與頻域
(frequency-domain)電磁全波解答器(electromagnetic full-wave solver)。時域解答器建立上
採用時域有限差分法(finite-difference time-domain)，並透過平行化(parallelization)方式提
昇效率; 而頻域解答器將採用週期矩量法(periodic method of moments) ，透過快速多偶極
演算法(fast multipole method)及週期格忍函數(periodic Green’s function)計算平行化提昇
效率。目前已完成頻域解答器與時域有限差分法之建立與元件量測驗證，正進行演算法之
平行化。所開發之電腦輔助工具將用於研製與改良光學元件，光學元件之設計與製作將於
德州大學波散射研究中心(Wave Scattering Research Center)及奈米科技研究與教學中心
(Nanotechnology Research and Teaching Facilities, NanoFAB)完成。 
 
(二)英文摘要 
Keywords: periodic structure, photonic crystal, finite-difference time-domain (FDTD), fast 
multipole method, periodic method of moments 
 
The proposed international collaborative multi-year research aims at developing novel 
computer aided design (CAD) tools for photonic crystal-based optical devices. The first-year 
research is currently conducted by Dr. Nan-Wei Chen with the National Central University 
(NCU), Taiwan and Dr. Mingyu Lu and Dr. Weidong Zhou with the University of Texas at 
Arlington (UTA), USA. The major part of the proposed research, including the development of 
the design tools, was carried out in NCU, Taiwan. The developed CAD tools is being verified 
and tested in UTA. Specifically, the accurate time-domain (TD) as well as frequency-domain 
(FD) -CAD tools based on electromagnetic full-wave solvers and pertinent to the analysis of 
the photonic crystal structures have been developed and verified in the first quarter of the 
first-year research. Currently, the parallel acceleration for both FD and TD solvers proposed 
predominately for efficiency improvement on the classical FDTD are under development. 
Experimental study of photonic crystal devices are currently conducted at the Wave Scattering 
Research Center (WSRC) and the Nanotechnology Research and Teaching Facility (NanoFAB) 
in UTA, and the experimental data will be used to verify the design tools. The developed CAD 
tools are expected to be successful aids for the design of photonic crystal devices. 
II、Content 
 
Research project’s background and goals: 
Photonic crystals (PCs), semiconductors for light, are engineered material structures with 
periodic modulation in refractive index (one kind of photonic metamaterials). It holds great 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this project, integral equation (IE) method is proposed to develop novel simulation tools for 
PCs. IE method is also termed the method of moments. It has no restrictions for the problem 
geometry, hence is a general-purpose method. Indeed, IE is more advantageous when the PCs are 
truly periodic in that the periodic Green’s function can be applied [2]. Compared with FDTD, IE 
method is more accurate, especially for large-scale problems. Nevertheless, up to date, quite 
limited research effort has been reported on applying IE methods to PCs [3, 4], largely because of 
the high computational complexity associated with IE methods. Fortunately, the high complexity 
issue has been successfully tackled due to the recent advances in fast algorithms acceleration 
[5-7]. In this research, two approaches are proposed to relieve the computational burden of IE 
method: (i) fast algorithms; and (ii) parallelization. Specifically, Fast Multipole Method (FMM) 
[8] and Ewald method [9] were used to accelerate the IE solver for non-periodic and periodic PCs, 
respectively; and the fast algorithm enhanced IE solvers will be implemented on parallel 
platforms so that the computational tasks are partitioned into multiple processors with distributed 
memory. The novel IE-based, efficient, and parallel solvers for PCs developed in this project is 
being verified by three means. 
(1) By parallel FDTD code. The novel IE solvers is verified numerically first, by comparing 
their results with the numerical results obtained through FDTD. 
(2) By experiments at the microwave and millimeter wave bands. PCs was fabricated at the 
centimeter and millimeter wave bands and measured at Wave Scattering Research Center 
(WSRC) in UTA. This stage provides a simple and fast confirmation of the simulation 
data, before going to the micro/nano scale, in that the cycle and cost for fabrication and 
measurement at cm and mm bands are much lower. 
(3) By experiments at micro and nano scales. Realistic optical PC devices designed by the 
novel IE solver will be fabricated and tested at the NanoFAB in UTA. The devices include 
infrared spectrometer and surface-emitting laser. 
Peak Wavelength (µm)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0 5 10 15 20
0.28
0.42
0.66
r =1.00 µm
1.50
2.25
MWIR
LWIR
FIR
La
tti
ce
 C
on
st
an
t a
 (µ
m
) r
a
QD                                     n
GaAs                                          n
AlGaAs                                barrier i
GaAs                                    n
QD                                         x9 n   
GaAs spacer i
GaAs                                    x9 i
0.5 µm GaAs n=2x1018cm-3
S.I. GaAs Substrate
VM
Figure 1(a) Schematic of the photonic crystal infrared photodetectors (PCIPs); (b) A 
scanning electron micrograph of a fabricated photonic crystals on GaAs (top); Illustration 
of multi-spectral detector arrays (bottom); (c) Photonic crystal design for 
multi-wavelength arrays, along with the photonic crystal hexagonal lattice (inset).The 
required lattice constants a for various sets of air hole radius r are shown for different 
peak wavelengths. Note the complete coverage of infared spectrum regime is feasible for 
Mid-wave, long-wave and far infrared (MWIR, LWIR, FIR) bands 
(a) (c) (b)
and (c), respectively.  In Figure 2, r, a, t and λ  are the PC air hole radius, PC lattice constant, 
slab thickness, and wavelength, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References: 
 
[1] W. Zhou, "Characteristics of a photonic bandgap single defect microcavity 
electroluminescent device," IEEE Journal of Quantum Electronics, vol. 37, pp. 1153-1160, 
2001.[ 
[2] A. W. Mathis and A. F. Peterson, "Efficient electromagnetic analysis of a doubly infinite 
array of rectangular apertures," IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, 
vol. 46, pp. 46-54, 1998. 
[3] L. F. Shen, S. L. He, and L. Wu, "The application of effective-medium theory in the 
plane-wave expansion method for analyzing photonic crystals," Acta Physica Sinica, vol. 
51, pp. 1133-1138, 2002. 
[4] S. S. Xiao, L. F. Shen, and S. L. He, "A plane-wave expansion method based on the 
effective medium theory for calculating the band structure of a two-dimensional photonic 
crystal," Physics Letters A, vol. 313, pp. 132-138, 2003. 
[5] B. Shanker, M. Lu, A. A. Ergin, and E. Michielssen, "Plane-wave time-domain 
accelerated radiation boundary kernels for FDTD analysis of 3-D electromagnetic 
phenomena," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 53, pp. 3704-3716, 
2005. 
[6] J. M. Song and W. C. Chew, "Large Scale Computing with the Fast Illinois Solver 
Code-Requirements Scaling Properties," IEEE Computational Science and Engineering, 
vol. 5, pp. 19-23, 1998. 
[7] J. S. Zhao and W. C. Chew, "Integral equation solution of Maxwell's equations from zero 
frequency to microwave frequencies," IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, 
vol. 48, pp. 1635-1645, 2000. 
[8] K. Donepudi, J. M. Jin, S. Velamparambil, J. M. Song, and W. C. Chew, "A higher-order 
parallelized multilevel fast multipole algorithm for 3-D scattering," IEEE Transactions on 
Antennas and Propagation, vol. 49, pp. 1069-1078, 2001. 
 
[9]     P. P. Ewald, “Die berechnung optischer und elektrostatischen gitterpotentiale,” Ann. Phys., 
(Germany), vol. 64, pp. 253–268, 1921. 
 
Self-evaluation 
1. All tasks in the Gant chart were done as scheduled, except the FDTD parallelization. The 
delay is owing to the lack of work force at UTA. This condition was significantly improved 
Figure 3: Results at infrared band 
