行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－006－207－MY3 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林仁輝   執行機構及單位名稱：成大機械系 
共同主持人：     執行機構及單位名稱 
計畫參與人員：   執行機構及單位名稱 
 
 
Abstract 
The fatigue exhibited in indentation 
tests caused by using a sharp indenter to 
apply the cyclic oscillating load to the 
specimens of metal alloys was studied. By 
the specific load condition arranged before 
performing the cyclic oscillating, the creep 
effect can be avoided from the fatigue 
behavior. The steady depth propagation rates 
of sub-nanometers per cycle were thus 
measured. The Paris law was used to 
describe depth propagation rate affected by 
the stress ratio, the stress intensity variance, 
and the oscillating frequency during the 
cyclic oscillating processes. For 6061 Al and 
304 stainless steel materials, the depth 
propagation rates reveal the close values of 
sensitivity to the oscillating frequency. The 
observation of the time lags between the 
oscillating results of load and depth could 
give the relation to the frequency sensitivity 
in the view of mechanism of fatigue. 
Keywords: Indentation, Fatigue, Paris law 
 
1. Introduction 
Nanoindentation has become a powerful 
tool for local mechanical properties in the 
nanometer scale. The high resolution and in 
situ characteristics of load and depth data in 
nanoindentation systems provided lots of in- 
formation for observation. Several techniques 
have been reported in order to evaluate the 
mechanical properties of bulk and composite 
materials from nanoindentation tests under 
static and dynamic loading conditions [1-7]. 
An indenter will continue penetrating into the 
specimen of viscoplastic/viscoelastic material 
under a constant load held in the dwelling 
process between loading and unloading, 
which is the indentation creep [8-10]. The 
cyclic loading conditions have been reported 
[11-15] to allow the indenter to penetrate 
continuously into the specimens. The effect 
of oscillation frequency used for the cyclic 
loading process was reported to be an 
important factor to the depth penetration 
behavior [13-14]. The retardation caused by 
the over/under loading segments between the 
cyclic loading processes was also studied 
[11-12]. 
In this study, the cyclic loading 
conditions were applied to the specimens of 
metal alloys during indentation tests. The 
creep effect was avoided by the special 
arrangement of loading condition before the 
cyclic loading processes. The effects of the 
cyclic loading condition were taken into 
account for the evaluation of the depth 
penetration under cyclic load. The effect of 
the oscillation frequency was emphasized 
and it was found related to the time lag 
between oscillation load and depth. The 
retardation of depth penetration due to the 
segment holding load with the holding time 
between the cyclic loading processes was 
also studied. 
 
2. Experiments of Cyclic Indentation Test 
2.1 The effect of creep 
The indentation tests including the 
sinusoidal load as the cyclic oscillation were 
carried out by a TriboScope (Hysitron, US) 
system and a Berkovich indenter made of 
diamond was used in this study. In the 
beginning, the load applied to the specimen 
is arranged to reach the mean load of 20 mN 
with dwell and then go to the cyclic 
oscillation segment as the right-bottom 
corner of Fig.1 shows. In the C segment, 
which is the cyclic oscillating segment, the 
results of indentation depth revealed to 
include the transition and the steady-state 
 2
reloading/unloading processes result in both 
the variations of deformation zone and the 
opening angle. These processes create the 
mechanism quite similar to that a variant 
stress is applied to the crack in the opening 
mode, so a small depth will propagate after 
undergoing one reloading/unloading process. 
In the next cycle, the process is repeated and 
the depth propagates again; hence a depth 
propagation rate dh/dN is created for every 
cycle. 
3.2 The Paris law 
For the fatigue tests under the plane- 
stress condition, the crack propagation rate 
can be given by a power-law formula of the 
stress ratio R  and the stress intensity 
variance K∆  [16]. The power-law, which is 
known as Paris law, has some different forms. 
In this study, the formula is used to describe 
the influent factors for the indentation depth 
propagation rate as: 
nm KRC
dN
dh )()1( ∆⋅−⋅= , (1)
where , , and  are the constants 
determined experimentally. For the depth- 
sensing indentation tests in the use of a 
geometrically similar indenter, the stress 
C m n
σ  
applied to the specimen is related to load P  
and depth square , i.e. [2], so 
the stress intensity has the relation of 
2h 2/~ hPσ
2/3/~ hhK ⋅σ
m
P=
C
 by definition. So, the 
values of , , and n  constants are 
related to not only the material properties, 
but also the oscillating frequency  and the 
geometry of the indenter. 
f
For 6061 Al and 304 stainless steel 
specimens, the experimental results of the 
depth propagation rate related to the stress 
ratio and the stress intensity variance are 
shown as Fig.5(a) and Fig.5(b), respectively. 
After properly choosing the m and n values, 
the depth propagation rate shows the linear 
behavior in all cases of the two materials; 
that is, the value of dh/dN increases linearly 
with the value of . Therefore, 
the slope shown in Fig.5(a) and Fig.5(b), 
which is equal to the  parameter in Eq.(1), 
can be determined by linear fit. For these two 
alloys, a higher oscillating frequency leads a 
smaller depth propagation rate. As Fig.5(a) 
and Fig.5(b) show, the experimental results 
of depth propagation rate at the frequency of 
50 Hz are smaller than those at the small 
frequencies under the same value of 
. This implies that it is easier 
for the indenter to “drill” into the specimen 
with the lower frequency. Compared with the 
other two factors of stress ratio and stress 
intensity variance, the depth propagation rate 
is more sensitive to the oscillation frequency. 
nm KR )()1( ∆⋅−
C
nm KR )()1( ∆⋅−
3.3 The effect of oscillation frequency 
In order to investigate the influence of 
oscillation frequency, the value of parameter 
C is evaluated at different frequencies. The 
results of parameter C varying with the 
oscillation frequency are shown in Fig.7 and 
the tendency of C vs. f can be fitted well by 
the exponential functions given in this figure 
for the two chosen materials. That is, the 
influence of frequency on C decreases as the 
frequency increases. As Fig.7 shows, in the 
cases of f > 10 Hz, the C values are 
asymptotic to a constant for these two 
materials. A similar experimental behavior 
has been reported in the study of Xu and Yue 
[15] even though different material and 
indenter were used in their indentation tests. 
It was found that a lower oscillation 
frequency leads a higher plastic deformation 
and gives more time to allow the dislocation 
to retract into the source in the unloading 
segment. In the next loading segment, there 
are more dislocations to propagate the plastic 
zone, which result in a bigger plastic 
displacement. When the frequency reaches a 
certain value, the propagation of the plastic 
zone is nearly the same, thus resulting in 
almost the same value of depth propagation 
rate. According to the investigation of the 
normalized results of load and depth in the 
oscillating segment, as Fig.8 shows, the time 
lag between the oscillation load and depth is 
about 1.5 ms for both 6061 Al and 304 
stainless steel materials. This value of time 
lag is observed as independent of oscillation 
frequency. It implies that the variation of 
depth is slower than the variation of the 
applied load in the oscillation segment. In the 
other words, the deformation needs the time 
to respond the applied load, and the values of 
time for the two chosen materials are quite 
close. This provides an indirect explanation 
for the frequency coefficients related to 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The mechanism of the depth penetration due to
cyclic loading/unloading condition applied to the
specimen. 
 
 
 
 
 
The experimental results of depth propagating rate
of (a) 6061 Al and (b) 304 steel specimens under
different oscillating frequencies. 
 Fig.7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The experimental depth propagating with the rate
of 0.6 nm/cycle during the oscillating process.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The normalized results of load and depth of (a)
6061 Al and (b) 304 steel specimens under the
oscillating frequency of 50 Hz show the time lags
between the applied load and responded depth are
both about 1.5 ms. 
 
Fig.8
 
 
 
 
Self-evaluation 
The project provides a positive feature of 
the detailed experiments undertaken using an 
instrumented nanoindentation tester. The 
present results show applying a fluctuating 
load to a sharp indenter produces a small 
additional increment in penetration with each 
load cycle. The results should be of general 
interest for the application of nanoindentation 
technique. The particular emphasis on the 
present paper is the effect of loading history 
on the retardation of cyclic creep. The quality 
of the project is good. 
 The experimental results of depth propagating rate
of (a) 6061 Al and (b) 304 steel specimens under
different oscillating frequencies show good
agreement with the linear behavior predicted by
Paris law.  
 6
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/03/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 動態奈米壓痕試驗下材料的變形遲滯、微組織變化與疲勞破壞之研究
計畫主持人: 林仁輝
計畫編號: 96-2221-E-006-207-MY3 學門領域: 疲勞與損壞
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
