2 
 
instants, and (2) determining the natural frequencies and damping ratios of the structure 
before and after damage. HHT application to the phase I IASC–ASCE benchmark building 
for the complete identification of stiffness and damping coefficients is quite plausible and it 
represents a possible damage detection technique for linear structures (Silian et al., 2005). 
The time-series data from a variety of 1-D structures with and without structural damage are 
used to obtain the magnitude, phase, and damping information through the HHT method 
(Darryll et al., 2006). The location and extent of damage by tracking phase properties between 
successive degrees of freedom is then determined. Because the HHT method often suffers 
from the mode mixing problem when intermittency is involved in data, the new Ensemble 
Empirical Mode Decomposition (EEMD) method (Wu et al., 2004) is proposed to overcome 
the intermittence phenomenon. The latest new HHT method ensemble skills method is used to 
analyze Taipower Building Strong-motion station records from 1994~2006 (Su et al., 2008). 
The results show that the acceleration relationships between the basement and highest story 
are not proportional when the building maintains elasticity.  
As is well known, half-power bandwidth (Chopra et al., 2001) is related to the damping 
ratio of a structure in the frequency domain, and the bandwidth increases with an increasing 
the damping ratio in the structure. Additionally, both natural frequency and damping ratio are 
important indices for detecting structural damage. This study proposes three structural 
damage detection indices, i.e. the ratio of rotation (RR), the shifting value of the predominant 
frequency (SV) and the ratio of bandwidth (RB), by using the HHT method. The bilinear 
SDOF and MDOF with various predominant frequency models are constructed. The nonlinear 
acceleration responses of the top floor of structures subjected to the adjusted PGA El Centro 
and Chi-Chi (TCU068) earthquakes are then evaluated. Next, the sensitivity of RR, SV and 
RB in detecting structural damage is discussed based on use of the HHT method. In the above 
cases, results of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) (Cooley et al., 1965) method demonstrate 
the performance of the HHT method. 
II. Hilbert Huang Transform (HHT) 
The HHT, developed by Huang et al. (1998, 1999), consists of a two step-empirical 
mode decomposition (EMD) and the Hilbert spectral analysis (HSA). This section briefly 
summarizes the HHT principles and procedures. The detailed information can be found in the 
quoted references.  
(1) Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD):  
The EMD method involves the extraction of the IMFs from a given time series. An IMF 
is a function that satisfies two conditions as follows: 
(a) In a whole data set, the number of the extrema and the number of zero crossings must 
either be equal or differ at most by one.  
(b) At any point, the mean value of the envelope defined by the local maxima and the 
envelope defined by the local minima is zero. 
4 
 
indices ratio of rotation (RR), ratio of shifting value (SV) and ratio of bandwidth (RB) are 
defined here to indicate the sensitivity in detecting structural damage from nonlinear 
acceleration responses of structures by using HHT and FFT. Besides, the change of the 
equivalent damping ratio of the structure before and after damage by earthquakes is the most 
obvious one among these indexes. Therefore, this study derives the ratio of equivalent 
damping ratio RED, which refers to the occurrence and the extent of structural damaged 
caused by earthquakes. 
Initially, the indices are defined as follows: 
Ratio of Rotation: max
y
RR


                                       (7) 
Where y  and max  denote the yielding and the maximum rotation of column of the 1
st
 
floor, respectively. Additionally, max  denotes the maximum deformation of the member 
subjected to strong ground motions. Moreover, RR denotes the function of the earthquake 
intensity, as shown in Fig. 1(a). Restated, RR increases when increasing the PGA values. 
Hence, if RR <1, the structure remains in the elastic region. However, if RR>1, the nonlinear 
behavior of the structure exists and is revealed in the acceleration responses. 
Ratio of Shifting Value: 
      ( )
(%) 100
      ( )
shifting value of the predominant frequency Hz
SV
based position of the predominant frequency Hz
＝
        
(8) 
Where the predominant frequency,
0f , denotes the peak value of the spectrum, as shown 
in Fig. 1(b). Notably, the shifting value of the predominant frequency refers to the difference 
between the based position of the predominant frequency,
0f , and the position of the 
predominant frequency, eqf , from another spectrum, as shown in Fig. 1(d). Moreover, the 
shifting value of the predominant frequency represents the change of the structural behavior. 
Thus, SV is an important index to observe the degree of structural damage. 
Ratio of Bandwidth: 
    ( 2 1)
     ( 2 1)
bandwidth of the predominant frequency f f
RB
based bandwidth of the predominant frequency f f
 

＝
           (9) 
where the bandwidth ( 2 1)f f or ( 2 1)f f  denotes the half-power bandwidth (Chopra 
et al., 2001), as estimated from the acceleration frequency response curve Ra, as shown in Fig. 
1(c). According to Fig. 1(c), although the peak value of the acceleration response factor (Ra) 
decreases with an increasing damping ratio of the structure, the bandwidth increases with that 
of the structure. Restated, a larger damping ratio implies a flatter Ra curve. As is well known, 
the bandwidth estimated from a displacement frequency response curve Rd (Chopra et al., 
2001) is related to the equivalent damping ratio of a SDOF structure. Restated, the bandwidth 
increases with an increasing equivalent damping ratio, implying structural damage. Therefore, 
the expansion of the half-power bandwidth represents, to some extent, an increase in 
structural damage. A similar finding can be obtained if the bandwidth is estimated from the 
6 
 
used to smooth the spectrum. Index RB is then evaluated from the smoothed curves. 
2. Sensitive analysis 
An attempt is made to understand the variation of RR, SV and RB of the structural 
responses subjected to strong ground motions of various intensities.  The adjusted PGA El 
Centro and Chi-Chi (TCU068) earthquakes of different characteristics are chosen as the 
excitations, as shown in Fig. 2(a). The single degree of freedom (SDOF) and the multiple 
degrees of freedom (MDOF) models with three predominant frequency types are then 
constructed, respectively, by using SAP2000 program. Whereas the MDOF systems are three, 
ten and twenty story buildings, as shown in Fig. 2(b). Table 1 lists the modal frequencies of 
all cases. The rotational stiffness of the beams and the columns of these structures are then 
simulated using Wen's model. Next, the acceleration responses of the roof for each case are 
evaluated by inputting the adjusted El Centro and Chi-Chi (TCU068) earthquakes 
( PGA=0.1g, 0.3g, 0.5g and 0.7g). Finally, the sensitivity indices RR, RB and SV are 
computed from the acceleration responses data by using the HHT and FFT methods. Given 
the difficulty in estimating the bandwidth based on the original structural response spectrum, 
the moving average method with span 3 (Chou et al., 1975) is used to smooth the spectra to 
evaluate the indices. 
Figures 3 to 5 summarize a portion of the above results. Figure 3 displays the 
moment-rotation curve of the first yield member which is also at the bottom of the 1
st
 floor 
column for the MDOF model with a predominant frequency of 2.78 sec subjected to the 
adjusted PGA El Centro earthquake. These curves reveal the values of max , which are used 
to evaluate the ratio of rotation (RR). Notably, y  can be evaluated based on the 
stress-strain curve of the material, and has been used in Wen's model. For instance, 
y =0.0047 for the 1
st
 floor column and max  is 0.0058 (0.008) in the PGA=0.5g (0.7g) El 
Centro cases, respectively. Thus, RR is 1.23 (1.70) for this case. Figure 4 presents the spectra 
of the El Centro and TCU068 cases analyzed using the FFT method. Notably, no shifting 
value of the predominant frequency is found in the El Centro cases as shown in Fig. 4(a) and 
4(b). Furthermore, the half-power bandwidth maintains almost the same value in the El 
Centro cases. Additionally, SV is found only when the PGA value is greater than 0.5g in the 
TCU068 cases as shown in Fig. 4(c) and 4(d). Similarly, the change in bandwidth is 
observed in the PGA=0.5g TCU068 cases. However, the bandwidth narrows down to the 
based bandwidth in the case of the PGA=0.7g (RB=1). Therefore, no steady trend of changes 
is found for the RB versus the PGA values when analyzed with the FFT method. However, 
according to the Hilbert spectra shown in Fig.5, SV begins to change in the PGA=0.3g 
TCU068 case as shown in Fig. 5(c) and 5(d), but not in the El Centro case as shown in Fig. 
5(a) and 5(b). This difference is because RR>1 (inelastic responses) in the PGA=0.3g 
TCU068 case, but RR<1 (elastic responses) in the El Centro case (Fig.6). Restated, the HHT 
spectra reveal that the predominant frequency shifts after the nonlinear response of a 
8 
 
RR>1. Restated, RB also increases with increasing PGA values of the earthquakes. 
Additionally, SV also increases when increasing RR when RR>1. Comparing the sensitivity 
indices obtained from the FFT spectra with that of the HHT spectra reveals that SV changes 
only when the RR is sufficiently large. Moreover, the spectra do not reveal a steady 
relationship between RB and RR.  
In conclusion, the ratio of bandwidth (RB) from the HHT spectra displays the trend of 
incremental change with an increasing ratio of rotation (RR), making it an effective and 
sensitive index for detecting structural damage. Given the insufficient structural response data 
of actual structures containing damage progression phenomena, future research should verify 
the testing data from the experimental benchmark models to demonstrate the efficiency of 
sensitivity indices in the HHT spectra in detecting structural damage 
Acknowledgements: 
The authors would like to thank the Dr. Norden E. Huang who is the director of Adaptive 
Data Analysis Research Center of National Central University for the invaluable introduction 
of the HHT method, encouragement, and advice for this study.  
References 
Anil K. Chopra. (2001). Earthquake Dynamics of Structures: Theory and Applications to Earthquake 
Engineering. Second Edition, P.83. 
Black, C. J., & Ventura, C. E. (1998). Blind test on damage detection of a steel frame structure, Proc., 16th Int. 
Modal Analysis Conf., Santa Barbara, Calif., Society for Experimental Mechanics (SEM), Bethel, Conn., 
623–629. 
Chou Ya-lun. (1975). Statistical Analysis, 2d ed. New York: Holt Rinehart and Winston, pp. 562–565. 
Cooley, James W., & John, W. Tukey. (1965). An algorithm for the machine calculation of complex Fourier 
series. Math. Comput. 19, 297–301. 
Darryll Pines, & Liming Salvino.(2006). Structural health monitoring using empirical mode decomposition and 
the Hilbert phase. Journal of Sound and Vibration 294, 97-124. 
Doebling, SW., Farrar, CR., Prime, MB., & Shevitz, DW. (1996). Damage identification and health monitoring 
of structural and mechanical system from changes in their characteristics: A literature review. Los Alamos 
National Laboratory Report LA-13070-MS. 
Doebling, SW., Farrar, CR., & Prime, MB. (1998). A summary review of vibration based damage identification 
method. Shock Vib Dig, 30(2), 91–105. 
F. Lanata, & A Del Grosso. (2006). Damage detection and localization for continuous static monitoring of 
structures using a proper orthogonal decomposition of signals. Institute of Physics Publishing Smart Mater. 
Struct. 15, 1811-1829. 
Hou, Z., & Noori, M. (1999). Application of wavelet analysis For structural health monitoring. Proc., 2nd Int. 
Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring, Stanford Univ., Stanford, Calif., 946–955. 
Hou, Z., Noori, M., & Amand, R. St. (2000). Wavelet-based approach for structural damage detection. J. Eng. 
Mech., 126(7), 677–683. 
Huang, N E., Z. Shen, S. R. Long, M. C. Wu, H. H. Shih, Q. Zheng, N. C. Yen, C. C. Tung, & H. H. Liu. (1998). 
The Empirical Mode Decomposition and the Hilbert Spectrum for Nonlinear and Non-stationary Time Series 
Analysis. Proc. R. Sec.115London A, The Royal Society, 903-995. 
Huang, N. E., Shen, Z., & Long, S. R. (1999). A new view of nonlinear water waves: The Hilbert spectrum. 
Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech., 31, 417–457. 
Kim, H., & Melhem, H. (2004). Damage detection of structures by wavelet analysis.  Eng Struct, 26(3), 
347–62. 
Ray Ruichong Zhang, M.ASCE, Shuo Ma, Erdal Safak, M.ASCE, & Stephen Hartzell. (2003). Hilbert-Huang 
Transform Analysis of Dynamic and Earthquake Motion Recordings. J Eng Mech- ASCE / AUGUST / 861. 
Salawu, OS. (1997). Detection of structural damage through changes in frequency: A review, Eng Struct, 19(9), 
718–723. 
10 
 
of the ratio of bandwidth (RR) and the ratio of shifting value (SV). 
  
Fig.2 (a)El Centro and TCU068 time history records 
(b)three types of the MDOF 
Fig.3 Moment-rotation curve of MDOF, f =2.78Hz in 
the El Centro cases 
  
  
 
 
Fig.4 Response spectra by using FFT: (a) El Centro spectra (b) smoothed El Centro spectra (c) TCU068 spectra (d) 
smoothed TCU068 spectra (MDOF, f =2.78Hz) 
  
(a) (b) 
(b) 
(d) 
(c) (d) 
(a) (b) 
無研發成果推廣資料 
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
