 
中 文 摘 要 ： 本計畫針對多段式無線網路(multi-hop wireless network)
與異質網路之傳輸進行研究。因應無線網路技術的進步，各
種多段式無線網路之應用，諸如 ad-hoc network，backhaul 
network，及 mesh network 等無線網路架構，已逐漸發展起
來。在多段式無線網路上之傳輸服務品質控制也日益重要。
在傳統的單一基礎架構式(infrastructure)無線網路環境
下，只會有一個單一傳輸配對在一個無線區域網路中進行資
料傳輸；但是在多段式無線網路的環境，每段的無線傳輸都
有可能互相影響，進而使的在多段式無線網路的 end-to-end
傳輸品質控制十分困難。此外，考量在階層式的多段式無線
網路中，可能會有大批使用者同時在不同的基地台或 Access 
Points 之間做換手(handover)，此現象稱群體移動(Network 
Mobility)，故在此架構下提供一個具服務品質的換手機制也
是十分重要。而在群體移動的主題下，高速列車系統因秏用
能源較飛機少、更安全、更舒適等理由，漸成為橫越陸地的
選擇。而當列車的速度提高，更頻繁的換手、更短的允許換
手執行時間，都成為維持列車與地面間，無線通訊品質的致
命傷。進一步考慮應用層面時，由於手持裝置漸為廣用，行
動影音(mobile video)佔去相當大比例的頻寬，如何節省與
善用珍貴無線頻寬亦是需多加考慮的議題。 
本計畫分以下幾個題目對多段式無線網路傳輸進行深入研
究：(A) end-to-end 的服務品質控制，(B)針對列車所設計
之無縫換手(seamless handover)機制，以及(C)適用於群體
移動之行動影音支援。期能在多段式無線網路架構下提供一
個完整且有效率的傳輸服務品質控制方案。本計畫研究成果
不僅能在學術上有良好的論文發表，也能對業界將來的無線
網路建置有所貢獻。 
 
中文關鍵詞： 多段式無線網路、網路容量效能、end-to-end 服務品質控
制、高速列車、無縫換手、行動影音 
英 文 摘 要 ： In this project, we study the transmission 
characteristics over multi-hop wireless and 
heterogeneous network and propose methods to 
facilitate efficient and effective transmissions. 
With the advance of wireless technology, many types 
of multi-hop wireless work, such as ad-hoc, backhaul 
and mesh networks, are emerging. The quality of 
service (QoS) control over the multi-hop wireless 
network becomes important. In the traditional 
infrastructure wireless network environment, only one 
1 
 
II 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫針對多段式無線網路(multi-hop wireless network)與異質網路之傳輸
進行研究。因應無線網路技術的進步，各種多段式無線網路之應用，諸如 ad-hoc 
network，backhaul network，及 mesh network 等無線網路架構，已逐漸發展起來。
在多段式無線網路上之傳輸服務品質控制也日益重要。在傳統的單一基礎架構式
(infrastructure)無線網路環境下，只會有一個單一傳輸配對在一個無線區域網路中
進行資料傳輸；但是在多段式無線網路的環境，每段的無線傳輸都有可能互相影
響，進而使的在多段式無線網路的 end-to-end 傳輸品質控制十分困難。此外，考
量在階層式的多段式無線網路中，可能會有大批使用者同時在不同的基地台或
Access Points 之間做換手(handover)，此現象稱群體移動(Network Mobility)，故
在此架構下提供一個具服務品質的換手機制也是十分重要。而在群體移動的主題
下，高速列車系統因秏用能源較飛機少、更安全、更舒適等理由，漸成為橫越陸
地的選擇。而當列車的速度提高，更頻繁的換手、更短的允許換手執行時間，都
成為維持列車與地面間，無線通訊品質的致命傷。進一步考慮應用層面時，由於
手持裝置漸為廣用，行動影音(mobile video)佔去相當大比例的頻寬，如何節省與
善用珍貴無線頻寬亦是需多加考慮的議題。 
本計畫分以下幾個題目對多段式無線網路傳輸進行深入研究：(A) end-to-end
的服務品質控制，(B)針對列車所設計之無縫換手(seamless handover)機制，以及
(C)適用於群體移動之行動影音支援。期能在多段式無線網路架構下提供一個完
整且有效率的傳輸服務品質控制方案。本計畫研究成果不僅能在學術上有良好的
論文發表，也能對業界將來的無線網路建置有所貢獻。 
 
關鍵詞：多段式無線網路、網路容量效能、end-to-end 服務品質控制、高速列車、
無縫換手、行動影音 
  
1 
 
I. INTRODUCTION‧前言 
無線網狀網路的快速發展，也讓各種的網路
應用轉移到無線網路當中，而 multihop 無線網
路之傳輸服務品質(QoS)的控制將是當務之急。但
是在無線網路當中，因著無線資源是一種共享式
的傳輸媒介，使得傳輸配對之間可能會有頻道的
干擾問題，這使得使用者的 end-to-end QoS 十分
難以掌握。本計畫最終的目的是在針對無線網路
使用者，在無線網狀網路中提供 mutlihop 
end-to-end 的 QoS 品質保證，並在日益廣用的高
速列車上設。為了達成此目標，如前所述，我們
分三部份來研究無線網路上 multihop 傳輸的問
題。而其目的如下。 
1. 提供 end-to-end 的無線傳輸品質保證：我
們針對不同的使用者的 QoS 需求，以及其在整個
無線網路的傳輸路徑上做頻寬分配，所提供的
QoS 保證不再單單只是固定頻寬的保證，也保證
其 end-to-end 的傳輸延遲。由於現今網路上的資
料量常常是 dynamic bit rate，且無線網路使用者
在移動時，也可能會因為傳輸路徑的改變，而導
致頻寬分配需重新調整。因此我們的目的是設計
一個可以隨時根據使用者的狀態、以及網路狀況，
動態調整網路頻寬分配的機制。由於這個機制須
有即時性，因此我們著重於分散式的頻寬分配機
制。這個頻寬分配機制考量整個無線網路通道干
擾模式(channel interference model)，評估可用的
通道容量(channel capacity)，在考量每個 flow 的
需求及各個傳輸節點之間相互的干擾下，估算每
個 flow 在每個節點的頻寬分配量。藉由這個機制
能在不影響網路整體效能下，提供給每個無線網
路使用者良好的傳輸品質。 
2. 列車用無縫換手機制：我們利用群體移動
概念介接車廂內外多段無線與有線網路，在提供
較高品質的無線通訊上，對車內設備或是對提供
連線服務的電信業者來說，整體成本皆可降低；
我們並引入使用多個外連(egress)網路介面，巧妙
利用列車本身長度優勢，支援在高速列車的速度
提高，換手更頻繁、允許換手執行時間更短的情
況下的無縫式換手。而現今 Long Term Evolution 
(LTE)技術漸廣為接受使用在廣域無線接取網路，
因此我們進一步以 Long Term Evolution (LTE)微
型基地台設計實作此方法的架構，在業界推廣價
值高。 
3. 適用於群體移動之行動影音支援：我們提
出在 IP-based 網路中支援行動影音服務之群體移
動架構。其中採用了 Internet Engineering Task 
Force (IETF)的 network mobility basic support 
protocol []進行高速列車上的群體移動管理，並設
計 a pool of home agents (HAs)，提供可靠且有效
率的影音繞送。面對常發生傳輸錯誤的車對地無
線環境，我們整合兩項技術來應對：一是 network 
coding，用以支援快速封包重製(recovery)；二是
使用通透影音代理伺服器(transparent video proxy 
server)以減少頻寬使用。我們更為該代理伺服器
設計管理暫存空間機制，以更有效率的方式，使
用代理伺服器上的暫存空間(cache)。 
II. RELATED WORK‧文獻探討 
A. Multi-hop End-to-end QoS Control  
For high affordability and easy deployment, 
wireless relay networks have been developed as 
cost-efficient networking platforms to support 
ubiquitous broadband Internet access in several 
cities [A-1][A-2][A-3]. Due to the available 
bandwidth for each link is time-varied depending on 
the current load and interference among wireless 
links, supporting end-to-end quality of service (QoS) 
guarantees for communication flows in wireless 
relay networks is a challenging task. In this project, 
we focus on QoS provisioning of real-time 
applications, such as VoIP, video conferencing and 
multimedia streaming, on a wireless relay network. 
Real-time applications usually generate 
variable-bit-rate (VBR) traffic and require 
end-to-end QoS guarantees. 
It is known that contention-based protocols, 
like CSMA/CA used in IEEE 802.11 [A-4], cannot 
provide satisfactory QoS guarantees because  the 
contention results in service unfairness and 
3 
 
with the serious Doppler shifting and fast landform 
change, the MR is equipped with advanced 
hardware and software, such as MIMO, advanced 
signaling processing techniques and without the 
concern of electric power usage. As a result, 
network mobility reduces the complexity of the 
hardware and software and power consumption of 
the MNNs. It also benefits network operators as the 
overhead of processing and signaling for 
authentication, authorization and accounting as well 
as network resource management are reduced. 
There are solutions proposed for network 
mobility on different protocol layers. In general, 
higher level mobility management requires less 
infrastructural support, but entails end-system 
support, additional signaling and encapsulation 
overhead. On the other hand, lower level mobility 
management provides more efficient signaling and 
handover operations, and requires less involvement 
from end-systems by introducing heavy 
infrastructure dependency [B-5]. 
SIP-NEMO [B-6] and SIP-NMG [B-7] are 
designed for Session Initial Protocol (SIP)-based 
applications, and the MR on the vehicle translate 
SIP signaling for the MNN. HarMoNy [B-5] 
integrates Host Identity Protocol (HIP) with Mobile 
IPv6 by using HIP-enabled MNNs. They are 
designed for specific application or require new 
functionality on the MNNs which is a disadvantage 
for widely deployment. Network mobility basic 
support protocol [B-8] establishes a bi-directional 
tunnel between the MR and its home agent, 
providing mobility transparency for the MNNs and 
allowing the MNNs to use native applications 
without modification. However, in the context of 
high-speed rail system, more advanced wireless 
access technology should be adopted for higher 
signal quality, and more efficient handover 
mechanisms are required for non-interrupted 
communication experiences. 
Choosing a wireless access technology for the 
train-to-ground link is the first issue when 
implementing network mobility on high-speed rail 
systems. Cellular-based solutions are gaining more 
attentions than satellite Internet services because of 
supporting non-line-of-sight, higher data rate and 
lower latency communication with less expensive 
price. Advanced standards, such as 3GPP LTE and 
WiMAX, require latency about 5~20 ms and data 
rate up to 300Mbps to 1Gps for downlink, and 
demand the physical layer to support robust 
wireless link adaptation at the speed up to 250 to 
350 km/h. However, small coverage radius of the 
base stations leads to more frequent handover. For 
instance, given a cell size of 5 km, then a 
high-speed train that moves at 360 km/h 
experiences handover every 45 seconds. Moreover, 
large movement area of a high-speed train implies 
that the change of IP domain is more likely to 
happen, causing extra handover delay and packet 
loss.  
Simultaneous handover problem means that 
when all the MNNs perform handover from one BS 
to another together simultaneously. Signaling 
message storm and large number of processing 
demands are generated on the wireless link and the 
network components of the infrastructure. This 
problem can be alleviated by aggregating the MNN 
signaling messages on the MR that completes the 
handovers on behalves of MNNs, adaptive to the 
MNN communication status. With carefully design 
and configuration, the signaling overhead could 
further be reduced. 
A major disadvantage of using single egress 
network interface is that when performing handover, 
there is still a period that the transmission is 
disrupted; and it becomes more serious if handover 
is more frequent. Instead, multiple interfaces 
(including multiple MRs) were initially used to 
fully utilize wireless link diversity (a.k.a., antenna 
diversity) for improving link quality.  
5 
 
result, the usage of wireless bandwidth is reduced, 
as well as the startup latency and response time. 
Traditional proxy cache management schemes 
focusing on web traffic are not appropriate for 
video access on a high-speed train due to the unique 
characteristics of mobile video access, e.g., large 
data size, sequential playing on a high speed train 
and unreliable transmission. 
III. RESEARCH RESULTS‧研究結
果 
A. Multi-hop End-to-end QoS Control  
We propose the two-stage slot allocation 
(2SA) scheme for TDMA-based wireless relay 
networks that each link dynamically adjusts its 
transmission schedule without coordination.  In 
the proposed scheme, the first stage provides 
minimum end-to-end bandwidth to all real-time 
application flows on the link; and the second stage 
allows each link to adjust its schedule dynamically 
to try the best to satisfy the QoS requirements of all 
flows on the link and avoid transmission collisions 
with other links. In contrast to traditional slot 
allocation schemes, we allocate two types of time 
slots: conflict-free slots and multi-access slots to 
each link. The transmissions in the conflict-free 
slots of each link will not be interfered by other 
links. For the multi-access slots, we can control the 
number of interference links and maximize network 
utilization by scheduling appropriate transmission 
time slots for each link. In the second stage, an 
adaptive on-the-go scheduling scheme schedules its 
transmission schedule to avoid collisions without 
coordinating with other links. The results of 
simulations demonstrate that our mechanism 
performs more flexibly and efficiently on real-time 
application flows than traditional one-stage slot 
allocation schemes.  
1. Network and System Model 
We model a wireless relay network by a 
directed network graph NG=(N,V), where 
N={n1,n2,n3,…} is the set of wireless nodes and 
V={v1,v2,v3,…} is the set of directed links. A node 
na can transmit data to another node nb if nb is in the 
transmission range DTR of na. The link from node na 
to node nb, denoted by (na, nb), means the node na 
has the ability to transmit data to node nb, i.e., 
vk=(na,nb)V, if |na,nb|DTR, where |na,nb| is the 
distance between na and nb. A successful 
transmission consists of a data sending from the 
sender to the receiver and a acknowledge replying 
from receiver to the sender. Two links can 
successfully transmit data in the same time slot only 
if their transmissions will not interfere with each 
other. In this project, we adopt the K-hop 
interference in [A-17] as our interference model as 
it has been used by most MAC protocols such as 
IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.16. Under the model, no 
two links within K-hops can successfully transmit 
at the same time. Let ,k lv v denote the shortest 
hop length between the two links vk and vl. We can 
construct a undirected contention graph CG=(V,E), 
where V is the same as in NG and an edge (vk,vl) is 
in E if links vk and vl cannot transmit data 
simultaneously, i.e.,  ,k lv v E , if ,k lv v K . 
The edges in E are undirected and we say vl and vk 
are neighbors in CG if  ,k lv v E . Then, we 
define the interference set of link vk as 
         
  ( )    ,k l k lI F v v v v E            (1)
 
Note that other interference models, such as the 
physical model and the protocol model [A-18], can 
also be applied to calculate interference set for each 
link.  
Fig. A-1(a) shows an example of a wireless 
relay network with 2-hop interference model that 
contains twelve wireless nodes and four flows. In 
this figure, the arrows and dashed lines represent, 
respectively, the links and the interference between 
the nodes. The corresponding contention graph is as 
Fig. A-1(b). A real-time application flow fi in a 
wireless relay network consists of a routing path, 
7 
 
QoS requirement of the flow. Any bandwidth 
estimation algorithm that supports end-to-end QoS 
control, such as the per-node delay assignment 
scheme [A-19] and the bulk scheduling scheme 
[A-20], can be used to estimate ri,k(t). As bandwidth 
estimation is not the focus of this study, the issue 
will not be discussed further is this project. 2SA 
pre-allocation reserves slots to each flow in 
coordination with other wireless nodes only when it 
joins and leaves this link and 2SA on-the-go 
scheduler assigns transmission slots for each frame 
to the link to meet the dynamic VBR demands of all 
flows. The apparent advantage of 2SA is it only 
needs to reserve slots once for each flow, regardless 
of its fluctuating VBR demand. 
2.1 Conflict-free and multi-access slots 
The objective of the 2SA scheme is to allocate 
slots for each link vk such that the minimum slot 
requirement Tk
min
 can be guaranteed and the 
maximum slot requirement Tk
max
 can be satisfied as 
much as possible with a controlled collision rate. 
2SA pre-allocation scheme assigns two types of 
slots: conflict-free slots and multi-access slots for 
each link vk. The conflict-free slot is only assigned 
to one link and not allocated to any neighbor (either 
as conflict-free or multi-access slot) of vk in CG 
while the multi-access slot may be allocated to 
some of its neighbors. Let mk and m'k be, 
respectively, the number of conflict-free slots and 
pre-allocated slots (i.e., the summation of 
conflict-free and multi-access slots). 2SA 
guarantees that the link vk can successfully transmit 
data in at least mk slots and at most m'k slots. Hence, 
the mk is equal to Tk
min
 and m'k is between Tk
min
 and 
Tk
max
.  
Our slot pre-allocation scheme assumes the 
constraint that a link’s pre-allocated slots are 
continuous, same as in [A-15], in order to reduce 
the overhead of coordination among links and data 
transmissions. Within the pre-allocated slots, we 
define three periods of vk, namely, the head period 
Z
k
head, the body period Z
k
body and the tail body Z
k
tail, 
shown in Fig. A-3, as follows: 
    | , ,headk k k kZ i s i s s                   (4) 
      | , , ,bodyk k k k k k kZ i s s s i s s m          (5) 
    | , ,tailk k k k k kZ i s s m s i m         (6) 
where  ,i j   represents the distance from 
slot i to slot j in recurrent frames, s'k and sk are 
starting positions of pre-allocated slots and 
conflict-free slots of link vk in the frame table 
respectively. The body period from slot sk to sk+mk 
contains all the conflict-free slots of link vk; the 
multi-access slots are divided into the head period 
and the tail period Note that the actual available 
slots of a link vk in each frame, which is determined 
by the factors, such as interference by the neighbors, 
is between mk and m’k. In order to prevent link 
starvation, the number of conflict-free slots mk must 
be equal to or more than one. With this constraint, 
the Theorem 1 shows that the pre-allocated 
conflict-free slots must also be continuous. This 
theorem further implies the layouts of pre-allocated 
slots can only be surrounding layout (i.e., the 
conflict-free slots are surrounded by multi-access 
slots), as depicted in Fig. A-3. Therefore, we only 
need four parameters, s'k, sk, mk, and m'k, to 
represent the pre-allocated slots of each link, which 
reduces the coordination overhead between links in 
the slot pre-allocation scheme. 
 
Figure A-3. The head, body and tail periods of pre-allocated slots of a link. 
9 
 
the links that can compete for transmission 
opportunities with vk form an independent set in 
CG(vk). Then, Theorem 2 is proved because the 
maximum independent set is the one that contains 
the most independent links in CG(vk).  Q.E.D. 
With the Theorem 2, we can calculate the 
upper bound of the contention degree of any link in 
a wireless relay network. Consider a wireless grid 
network with 2-hop interference model, a link may 
have eighty interference links, but in the 2SA, the 
contention degree is at most 4. 
2.2 The slot pre-allocation scheme 
The 2SA slot pre-allocation scheme determines 
the pre-allocated slots into head, body and tail 
periods, represented by (s'k, sk, mk, m'k), for each 
link vk with the objective to satisfy the slot 
requirements of all links as much as possible. In 
order to obtain globally optimal pre-allocation, it 
requires all the network information and user 
requirements which incur tremendous overhead of 
communication and computation, and thus, long 
latency.  Moreover, the pre-allocation result needs 
to be re-computed once there is a link requirement 
change that complicates the pre-allocation process. 
Therefore, 2SA proposes a distributed 
pre-allocation scheme, as in Fig. A-4, to obtain 
local optimal. 
The local optimization problem of link vk 
involves finding a pre-allocation (s'k, sk, mk, m'k) in 
which the number of pre-allocated slots m'k is 
maximized without changing the pre-allocation of 
other links. To solve this problem 2SA needs to 
gather the information of the head, body and tail 
periods in the form of (s', s, m, m'), from all 
neighbors. 2SA employs the message exchanging 
mechanism in IEEE 802.11s, where each link will 
periodically broadcast it pre-allocation to its all 
neighbors. With the k-hop interference model, each 
node broadcasts the pre-allocation message to the 
nodes in k-hop distance.  For example, in Figure 
A-5, the link vk has 6 neighbors, va to vf. The 
overall pre-allocation of all its neighbors can be 
obtained by the following two rules, where Nk
CF
 
and Nk
MA
 are the set of slots that are allocated by 
vk’s neighbors as conflict-free slots and 
multi-access slots, respectively. 
 k
CF body
k l
l IF v
N Z

       (8) 
     k k k
MA head tail body
k l l l
l IF v l IF v l IF v
N Z Z Z
  
    (9) 
The unused periods (as depicted in Fig A-5) can be 
considered as the conflict-free period of node vk. 
2SA pre-allocation scheme selects the unused 
period, which is at least larger than Tk
min
, with 
largest surrounding multi-access periods as its 
conflict-free period, and the surrounding 
multi-access period as its multi-access period.  
This distributed algorithm can be performed by 
using a linear search. If there is no block with 
unused slots more than or equal to Tk
min
, the flow is 
rejected to enter the network. 
 
 
   
 
min max
min max
:  ,  ,  ,  ( ),   
             and , , ,  of all ( )
:  , , ,  
:   
0
0 ,
, , , ( )
,
k k k
l l l l l k
k k k k
k
k k k k
k k k k
k k l l k l k
k k k k k
M T T IF v
s s m m v IF v
s s m m
m
m T m T
s s m m
s s s m s v IF v
s m s m s
  
 

   
    
     
     
Given
Find
Maximize
s.t.
 , , ( )k l l km s v IF v  
 
Figure A-4. The problem definition of the 2SA pre-allocation. 
11 
 
the second stage, the on-the-go scheduling scheme 
is individually performed by each link to 
dynamically schedule the transmission time 
according to the immediate slot requirement and 
channel condition. 
2.3.1 Channel available probability estimation 
In order to avoid transmission collisions with 
neighbors, 2SA uses the exponential moving 
average to estimate of channel available probability 
of link vk in the i-th slot of frame t as follows: 
1 1( ) ( ) (1 ) ( )t t tk k kP i I i P i 
      ,   (11) 
where α is parameter between 0 and 1, and Ik
t
(i) 
is an indicator function whose value is 1 if for the 
link vk the channel is idle or the transmission is 
successful in the slot i of frame t, otherwise it is 0. 
Initially, the 0 ( )kP i is set to 1 for all pre-allocated 
slots of vk and 0 for Zk
idle
 . It is easy to see that 
( )tkP i  is always 1 if iZk
body
 and 0 if iZk
idle
. For 
each link, once a slot is not used by any neighbor 
links, the ( )tkP i  is increased and then the slot will 
have higher probability to be scheduled for the link 
to transmit data. In contrast, if a link selects a slot 
for transmissions, the ( )tkP i  of its neighbors are 
decreased and they is less likely to select the slot for 
transmissions. 
2.3.2 On-The-Go transmission time scheduling 
As mentioned before, the slot requirement of 
vk in the frame t is Tk(t). Therefore, the on-the-go 
scheduling is to select Tk(t) continuous slots with 
the highest channel available probability for 
transmissions, which is called transmission region. 
With the assumption of the allocated slots must be 
continues and the ( )tkP i  is equal to 1 if iZk
body
, 
the transmission region must contain the body 
period Zk
body
. Note that when traffic load is heavy, 
every link k transmits the number of slots Tk(t) (i.e., 
its slot requirements) may cause high collision 
probability and low network utilization. A 
parameter β is introduced as congestion control 
threshold that the slots with ( )tkP i  
lower than β 
will not be selected for transmission.  The goal of 
the on-the-go scheduling as shown in Fig. A-7 is to 
find the sk
*
 and mk
*
 such that the summation of the 
( )tkP i  
from sk
*
 to sk
*
+ mk
*
 is maximal. Since the 
selected slots must be contiguous, this problem can 
be easily solved by a linear search. There are two 
reasons that we choose a contiguous block for a link 
to transmit data in the proposed on-the-go 
scheduling. One is the contiguous transmission can 
have higher channel utilization which has been 
shown in [A-15]. The other reason is this approach 
has lower collision probability, such as shown in 
Fig. A- 8. 
2.3.3 Early start and early terminate policy 
With the slot pre-allocation and on-the-go 
scheduling, each link vk has determine its 
transmission region, i.e., from slot sk
*
 to slot (sk
*
+ 
mk
*
). However, it may occur that some slots are not 
scheduled by a link even there is no neighbor use 
the slot or the slots are allocated by a link even they 
has been selected by some neighbors for 
transmissions. Therefore, we propose two 
enhancements for the on-the-go scheduling, which 
called early start and early terminate policies, to 
further improve the channel utilization and prevent 
* * *
* *
 to  
* * *
*
:  (t),  and ( ) for each slot i
:  ,   
:  ( ) 
( ) , for all i between  and   
( )
k k k
t
k k
k k
t
k
i s s m
t
k k k k
k k
T P i
s m
P i
P i s s m
m T t

 
 


Given
Find
Maximize
s.t.
 
Figure A-7. The problem definition of the 2SA on-the-go scheduling. 
13 
 
 
Figure B-1. The proposed system architectue. 
 
Target
eNB
Serving
eNB
MMEf
S-GWf1
MMEU/S-GWU
Enhanced HeNB
UE (MNN)
S-GWf2
eNB
control interface
data interface
control/data interface 
over data interface
cannot transmit data in this state. Each link can 
transmit data only in its transmission state. A link 
will enter waiting state if its head period starts. In 
the waiting state, the link will listen on the channel 
condition and go to transmission state once the 
channel is idle during a head period slot or the 
scheduled transmission time region has started. And 
then return to idle state if the transmission time 
region has terminated or a collision has occurred.  
With this mechanism, we can see that each link vk 
can get slots more than or equal to mk
*
 if there is no 
collision. And for each link, at most two collisions 
will occur in each frame, one may be at the slot sk
*
 
and the other may be the last transmission in tail 
period, because of the early terminate policy. 
B. Seamless Handover for High-speed 
Train  
In this section, we present the system 
architecture of network mobility on high-speed 
trains based on LTE femtocell technology. 
1. The Infrastructure 
In Fig. B-1, an enhanced femtocell base station 
(here and after, the enhanced HeNB) is deployed on 
a train and serves the user equipment (UE) on the 
train (i.e., the MNNs) as an eNB. The MMEU and 
the S-GWU are the Mobility Management Entity 
(MME) and the Serving Gateway (S-GW) handles 
the UE. In LTE standard, an HeNB connects to the 
core network of the operator through public 
network over secured IP-based connection (e.g., 
IPsec). We propose to configure the egress 
interface(s) of the enhanced HeNB to communicate 
to the MMEU and S-GWU through IP connection 
over LTE wireless access network. In other words, 
the enhanced HeNB’s egress interface acts as an UE 
that connects to the serving eNB on the ground and 
is served by the MMEf and the S-GWf1. As a result, 
when a request (e.g., a call) is destined for the UE, 
it is forwarded from the MMEU/S-GWU to the 
enhanced HeNB via the S-GWf1 and the serving 
eNB. Note that some interfaces (e.g., between 
MMEf to the eNB under S-GWf2) are not shown in 
Fig. B-1 for clarity. 
The detailed protocol stacks of the S1-MME 
control plane and S1-U user plane between the 
enhanced HeNB and the MMEU and S-GWU [B-11] 
are illustrated in Fig. B-2 and Fig. B-3, respectively, 
including the underlying S1-U user plane. The 
control signaling and data packets for the UE are 
IP-encapsulated (and decapsulated) by the enhanced 
HeNB. Consequently, the MMEf and the S-GWf1 
only have to exchange and process the context of 
the enhanced HeNB, including network resource 
reservation and admission control. In addition, 
when the enhanced HeNB performs handover from 
the serving eNB to the target eNB [B-11], or when 
the changing the anchor S-GW of the enhanced 
HeNB from the S-GWf1 to the S-GWf2 (i.e., 
Tracking Area Update) [B-12], the signaling also 
involves only the information of the enhanced 
HeNB. Note that if the IP address of the enhanced 
HeNB’s egress network interface is changed after 
handover, the enhanced HeNB should re-register to 
the MMEU and the S-GWU according to [B-13]. 
In this project, we present a network 
configuration without modifying the standard. 
Under some circumstances, the performance can be 
further improved. For example, if the enhanced 
HeNB is operated by the same operator as the eNBs, 
15 
 
 
Figure B-5. The proposed handover procedure.    
UL packet data
(from head antenna)
Source eNB Target eNB MMEf S-GWf
Enhanced
HeNB
packet datapacket data
1. Measurement 
Reports
(the head antenna)
2. HO decision
3. HO Request and Ack4. RRC Connection 
Reconfigure
5. The head antenna attach to the target eNB
DL packet data
(to tail antenna)
6. Path Switch Request
7. Modify Bearer 
Request
8. Switch DL path
packet data
packet data
10. Path Switch 
Request Ack
9. Modify Bearer 
Response
packet data
11. UE Context 
Release
12. Release Resources
Legend
L3 Signaling
Signaling Process
User data
3. Seamless Handover Procedure 
The seamless intra-MME/S-GW handover 
procedure are designed based on [B-11]. The 
detailed handover signaling diagram is illustrated in 
Fig. B-5.  
1) The enhanced HeNB sends a Measurement 
Report to the serving eNB periodically, which 
contains information such as received signal 
strength (RSS) of the head antenna for handover 
decision. 
2) The serving eNB makes decision based on 
the Measurment Report and Radio Resource 
Management (RRM) information to hand off the 
enhanced HeNB. 
3) The serving eNB issues a Handover Request 
with necessary information to prepare the handover 
to the target eNB where Admission Control is 
performed to increase the likelihood of a successful 
handover. A Handover Request Acknowledgement 
is then received to inform the confirmation of the 
handover. 
4) The serving eNB sends a RRC Connection 
Reconfiguration to the enhanced HeNB, which 
includes channel access parameters that can be used 
to attach to the target eNB. 
5) When the enhanced HeNB receives the 
RRC Connection Reconfiguration, it performs 
synchronisation to target eNB and accesses the 
target cell using the head antenna. After the head 
antenna is attached to the targer eNB, the enhanced 
HeNB starts to forward uplink traffic to the target 
eNB via the head antenna. In the meantime, the 
serving eNB continues sending packets to the 
enhanced HeNB via the tail antenna, and the SN 
Status Transfer is cancelled. 
6) The target eNB sends a Path Switch Request 
to the MMEf to inform that the enhanced HeNB has 
changed cell. 
7) The MMEf sends a Modify Bearer Request 
to the S-GWf, which includes the target eNB ID. 
8) The S-GWf switches the downlink data path 
to the target side. As a result, the downlink packets 
are now forwarded to the enhanced HeNB via the 
target eNB and the head antenna. 
From step 9) to 11), the Modify Bearer 
Response, Path Switch Request Acknowledgement 
and UE Context Release messages are identical to 
the standard, as well as step 12) that releasing the 
resource used by the enhanced HeNB on the serving 
eNB. 
One of the differences between the proposed 
handover protocol and TRS [B-4] is that the latter 
adopts bi-casting, requiring additional network 
resource for the redundant traffic which may be 
large in total for all of the UEs on the train. In the 
proposed scheme, the S-GWf switches forwarding 
tunnel end-point for downlink traffic from the 
serving eNB to the target eNB once the head 
antenna attaches to the target eNB without causing 
extra bandwidth usage. The signaling delay from 
the target eNB to the S-GWf and the one-way delay 
of reverse direction are negligible that do not 
decrease the handover performance.  
 
17 
 
the tail carriage, denoted as MRh and MRt, 
respectively. Hereafter in this project we will 
discuss the scenario with two MRs, while the 
proposed method can be applied to the scenario 
with more than two MRs. When the MRh and the 
MRt enter a domain, they send registration 
messages to the network components (including the 
HA) containing their identities, indicating their 
roles in the mobile network. The QoS router is the 
default gateway of the MNN in the mobile network, 
and cooperates with the MRh and MRt for various 
operations. For a high-speed train with 300 meters 
long and at 300 km/h, the time difference is only 
3.6 seconds between the MRh and the MRt passing 
through the same location. We take advantage of the 
length of train for supporting seamless handover, 
which is elaborated in the next section. Under this 
architecture, the MNN configures a globally unique 
public IP address to facilitate the use of native 
applications without putting extra load for IP 
address translations on the MRs and/or other 
network components. In addition, even when the 
mobile network moves across different domains, 
this IP address of MNN remains the same for the 
communication with its corresponding nodes (e.g., 
downloading a video object from a remote video 
server) as long as it stays within the mobile 
network. 
To overcome the triangular routing and single 
node failure problem, a pool of HAs are deployed in 
the home link that share the same network prefix 
(e.g., A:A:4::/48 in Fig. C-1) and constantly check 
the aliveness of each other. Although one mobile 
network is served by one HA at a time, the HAs in 
the pool keep updating each other about the 
information of its serving mobile network, such as 
the assigned address prefix, the care-of addresses 
and the authentication keys for the address binding. 
The performance metrics like round trip time of the 
routing path to the mobile network are also 
monitored and updated. When the serving HA fails, 
a designate HA will take over immediately, 
resolving the single node failure problem. 
Furthermore, when an HA is determined to be 
noticeably "closer" to the mobile network than the 
serving one, (e.g., after a handover of mobile 
network,) the HA may take over and serve the 
mobile network to reduce the routing length. The 
process of HA migration is to assign the 
responsibility of a serving HA to other available HA 
in order to achieve load balance among HAs and to 
provide better service to the mobile networks. 
In order to increase the effective utilization of 
the wireless link, a transparent video proxy server 
(hereafter, called "proxy" for short) is deployed on 
the train, which is transparent to the MNNs. The 
video object requests from the MNN are resolved 
and, if already cached, replied by the proxy server 
directly; otherwise, the request is forwarded to the 
original video object server. Considering the 
characteristics of video, a cache management 
scheme is designed for the proxy server to provide a 
high hit rate under the limited cache size. In 
addition, to improve the robustness and reliability 
of the packet transmission, we integrate network 
coding techniques into our system. The details of 
these techniques are presented in the following 
sections. 
2. Video Transmission 
In this section, we present the techniques 
developed to support seamless handover and a fast 
packet recovery mechanism. 
2.1 Seamless Handover Using Multiple MRs 
The design of seamless handover using 
multiple egress network interface/antennas are 
presented in Section B 3. 
2.2 Fast Packet Recovery Mechanism 
Network coding technique is adopted to 
support fast packet recovery. As the gateway to the 
mobile network, HA is a perfect place to host the 
network coding function, which encodes every N 
19 
 
2 Terabyte storage can keep about 1,100 one-hour 
long 4 Mb/s video objects) to keep the downloaded 
popular video clips such as primetime news and 
sport event broadcasts of the day, the proposed 
secondary storage management is simple but 
effective that it keeps all the downloaded video 
objects and uses Least Recent Used (LRU) policy 
for replacement.  
In order to save bandwidth and reduce service 
latency, the proxy needs efficient pre-fetching and 
replacement algorithms to maintain high byte hit 
rate. Here we describe two important observations 
of the access patterns of video objects and propose 
a cache management scheme to take advantage 
from the observations.  
Observation 1: As generally a video object is too 
large to be completely loaded in the memory, we 
partition a video object into blocks, and consider 
block as the basic loading unit. 
Observation 2: As generally user views a video 
object continuously, if a block is playbacked, then 
all other following blocks are likely to be 
playbacked, and the closer blocks are, the more 
probable they are to be playbacked. 
3.1 Call Admission Control 
The call admission control procedure (i.e., 
Step 0-1 to 0-3 in Fig. C-3) is performed after the 
request resolution procedure. If the resources are 
not sufficient, the proxy denies the request. 
Generally, the call admission control function has 
two considerations: the remainder wireless 
bandwidth and the quality of service (QoS) 
provided to the user. For interactive video (e.g., 
video conferencing), the proxy rejects the request if 
the video transmission bit rate form the CN to the 
proxy (note the bottleneck link is generally the 
wireless link from ground to train) is lower than the 
playbacking bit rate. For non-interactive video (e.g., 
video on-demand), the proxy rejects the request if it 
cannot meet the pre-defined QoS requirement 
[C-10].  
3.2 Cache Operations 
When the proxy admits a request, it allocates 
at least two blocks of memory for the request. One 
block is for storing the current playbacking video 
object, and the other blocks buffer the video for 
later playback (i.e., for pre-fetch).For a video object 
access request, the system assigns a certain number 
of blocks with different block size according to the 
user service classes and video characteristics 
[C-7][C-8][C-10]. A high-level class service 
receives high quality video service, which generally 
means having more memory blocks of large block 
size. For example, in Youtube, for a video with 
MPEG-4 coding, a low quality (i.e., 640×360 pixels 
per frame) video needs a rate of 1 Mb/s and a high 
quality (i.e., 1920×1080 pixels per frame) video 
needs a rate of 6 Mb/s. If a low-level class request 
is viewing a low quality Youtube video, it is 
assigned 1 Mb/s with two 1.25 MB memory blocks 
that each is for 10 seconds playback; in contrast, if a 
high-level class request is viewing a high quality 
Youtube video, it is assigned 6 Mb/s with three 7.5 
MB memory blocks that can endure up to further 
packet delay of 10 seconds. 
3.2.1 Memory Replacement policy 
When the free space in cache memory is 
insufficient to accommodate a new non-video 
conferencing request, a replacement policy 
determines which blocks should be replaced. The 
traditional cache replacement mechanisms are not 
suitable for the video proxy server because they do 
not take the properties of the video caching into 
account. In this project, we propose a score-based 
replacement mechanism, called SBR, to improve 
the performance of the proxy. Our replacement 
scheme not only considers the frequency and 
recency but also takes the popularity trend of the 
video into account. In SBR, the replacement 
procedure comprises three phases: priority setting, 
score computation, and block replacement phases. 
1) Priority setting phase. The video is 
21 
 
peak rate of the flow, denoted as TDMA-peak.  
We adapt the slot allocation algorithm in [A-15] 
to the TDMA-avg and TDMA-peak schemes 
because the algorithm in [A-15] is the one approach 
designed for contiguous slot allocation and 
minimizing the end-to-end transmission delay for 
each flow. We also compared other TDMA-based 
slot allocation algorithms, such as first-fit and 
best-fit, that their major difference is the positions 
of the allocated slots. Their simulation results are 
close to the results of [A-15] (thus their simulation 
results are not shown in the figures) because the 
major end-to-end delay is contributed by the 
queuing delay, but not the positions of allocated 
slots. The system configuration of the simulations is 
listed in Table A-1. All flows use the UDP as their 
transport protocol. In the simulations, the peak rate 
of each flow is set as double of its mean rate. The 
period of each simulation is 3000 seconds. The 
length of each link is 200 meters in all scenarios. 
The two control parameters,  and , in the 2SA 
on-the-go scheduling are 0.5 and 0.3, respectively. 
1. Chain topology 
In the first scenario, we examine the cases of 
one flow and multi-flows on a 6-hop chain topology 
as shown in Fig. A-10. First we consider the 
wireless network with a single flow, i.e., the flow 1 
in Fig. A-10. We evaluate the performance of 2SA 
by increasing the mean rate of the flow and Fig. 
A-11, A-12 and A-13 show the simulation results. 
Table A-1. The system configuration of 
simulations. 
Parameter Value 
Channel Bandwidth  11 Mbps 
Interface Queue Size 100 packets 
Packet Size 1500 bytes 
Flow type Exponentially distributed 
ON/OFF model 
Average ON/OFF period : 
1000/1000 ms. 
Transmission Range 250m 
Interference Range 420m 
TDMA slot duration 1.2 ms  
TDMA frame size 50 slots (60ms) 
 
 
Figure A-10. The network topology of the simulation in section IV.A.1. 
 
Figure A-11. The average end-to-end throughputs 
with different schemes in the simulation of single 
flow under the chain topology. 
 
Figure A-12. The average end-to-end delays with 
different schemes in the simulation of single flow 
under the chain topology. 
23 
 
TDMA-based schemes have higher utilization than 
IEEE 802.11. However, the TDMA-avg scheme can 
only admit the 6-hop flow with mean rates equal to 
or less than 600 Kbps, but 2SA can allow up to 900 
Kbps. Note that although TDMA-peak admits the 
6-hop flow with 1000Kbps mean rates, but there are 
about 10% packets are dropped because buffer 
overflow that the maximum achieved throughput 
(914Kbps) is slightly less than 2SA (918Kbps). Fig. 
A-15 shows the average end-to-end delay of flows 
with different hops. We can see that 2SA provides 
constant end-to-end delay for each flow. The 
average scheduling delay [A-15] of each hop is 
about 30ms in our simulation, which can be 
confirmed by the 60ms and 150ms end-to-end 
scheduling delays for 3-hop and 6-hop flows, that it 
 
 
Figure A-17. The throughputs with different schemes in the simulation of 4 flows under the grid topology. 
 
 
Figure A-18. The average end-to-end delay with different schemes in the simulation of 4 flows under the 
grid topology. 
25 
 
TABLE B-B-I. The Sizes of Handover Signaling Messages 
Handover Messages 
Signaling Size (Bytes) 
LTE-indivi
dual 
TRS 
The proposed 
scheme 
Measurement Report 4400 44 44 
Handover Request 24100 15982 241 
Handover Request Ack 7000 2713 70 
RRC Connection  
Reconfiguration 
3600 36 36 
RRC Connection 
Reconfiguration Complete 
900 9 9 
SN Status Transfer 7300 - - 
Path Switch Request 13600 5977 136 
Path Switch Request Ack 11700 8730 117 
Modify Bearer Request 16500 4521 165 
Modify Bearer Response 8000 4337 80 
UE Context Release 3000 30 30 
Bi-casting Request - 2977 - 
Bi-casting Request Ack - 3000 - 
Total 75600 39498 683 
 
 
Figure B-7. Total message sizes of different schemes.   
0
50
100
150
200
250
50 100 150 200
To
ta
l s
iz
e 
of
 m
es
sa
ge
s 
(K
B
)
# of active user
LTE-individual
TRS
the porosed scheme
users are more satisfied in the proposed scheme. 
When p increases, which mean the users are 
unhappier when the handover fails, the proposed 
scheme maintains high satisfaction score, while the 
score in LTE-individual scheme decreases fast in 
the same condition. 
2. The Size of Handover Signaling Messages 
Table B-I shows the message sizes of a 
handover event, assuming that there are 100 active 
UEs on the train. The message sizes are calculated 
from [B-4] and [B-14][B-15][B-15]. In 
LTE-individual, the 100 active UEs directly connect 
to the eNB on the ground, and thus have to perform 
handover all by themselves. In TRS, it requires 
some messages with only the TRS’s information, 
such as the Measurement Report; and some 
messages (e.g., the Handover Request) with all the 
active UEs information to, for example, perform 
admission control on the target eNB. In the 
proposed scheme, because the enhanced HeNB 
encapsulate all the UEs’ traffic, all messages only 
need to include the information of the enhanced 
HeNB; therefore, the total message size is further 
reduced. Figure B-7 illustrates the advantage of 
using femtocell-based configuration. The total 
message size remains low when the number of 
active user increases.  
C. Mobile Video Support for Network 
Mobility  
In this section, we present evaluations of the 
multiple-MR handover scheme, the network coding 
scheme and the cache management scheme of the 
proxy that together demonstrate the improved 
performance of the proposed framework. 
1. Seamless Handover Using two MRs 
We implemented the proposed mobility 
management scheme and several comparison 
schemes on the ns2 simulator with IEEE 802.16e 
and Proxy Mobile IPv6 modules to show the 
end-to-end transmission delays. The performance of 
the proposed multiple-MR handover scheme (called 
2MR) was compared with two other schemes, 1MR 
and 1MR-f, where 1MR is the base case that 
deploys a single MR in the last carriage, and 1MR-f 
has one MR with a forwarding tunnel established 
between the serving BS and target BS. We used a 
64-kbps constant bit rate (CBR) flow over UDP 
with a 10-ms packet interval sent from a 
corresponding node. The train length was set to 300 
27 
 
 
(a)  
 
(b)  
 
 
 
Figure C-6. The performance of different replacement schemes. (a) All videos 
are low quality. (b) 50% high quality videos and 50% low quality videos. (c) All 
videos are high quality. 
small N (2 to 6) can also increase the successful 
transmission probability significantly. The system 
can adjust N according to the wireless link error rate 
using the result of this analysis. 
3. Performance of Transparent Video Proxy 
We implemented popular replacement 
algorithms that are First In First Out (FIFO), Least 
Frequently Used (LFU) and LRU for the 
performance comparison with the proposed SBR 
scheme. There were 100 video objects in the 
simulated environment, which includes high quality 
videos (about the size of 2GB) and low quality 
videos (about the size of 400MB), each video 
segmented into 100 blocks, and the size of block is 
from 4 to 20MB. The total number of requests is 
500 with arrival rate 1 request per second. The 
metric is the byte hit rate defined as the number of 
bytes found in the memory divided by the total 
number of bytes requested within the observation 
period. Figure C-6 shows the performance of the 
byte hit rate with different mixed quality videos. We 
can see that SBR has the highest byte hit rate in all 
cases. This is because our scheme not only 
considers the replacement procedure, which 
simultaneously considers the frequency, recency, 
and popularity trend of the video, but also takes the 
pre-fetching procedure based on the EDF algorithm 
into account. On the other hand, LRU does not 
consider the frequency and viewing sequence 
properties of blocks, and LFU does not consider the 
popularity trend of the video resulting in a cache 
pollution problem.  
V. CONCLUSION‧結論 
A. Multi-hop End-to-end QoS Control  
In this project, we have proposed a two-stage 
slot allocation mechanism, 2SA, for TDMA-based 
wireless relay networks. The mechanism allocates 
elastic slots, besides dedicated slots, for each link to 
better utilize the wireless spectrum while still meets 
real-time application bandwidth needs. The 2SA 
pre-allocation allocates a continuous region, divided 
into conflict-free and multi-access slots, that their 
properties, such as the continuity and contention 
degree, are studied and proved in this study.  The 
on-the-go scheduling scheme selects least likely 
29 
 
參考文獻 
[A-1] Seattle wireless, 
(http://www.seattlewireless.net) 
[A-2] Southampton Open Wireless Network 
(http://www.sown.org.uk) 
[A-3] Rice TFA Network (http://tfa.rice.edu) 
[A-4] "IEEE Standard for Information 
Technology-Telecommunications and 
Information Exchange Between Systems-Local 
and Metropolitan Area Networks-Specific 
Requirements - Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium 
Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer 
(PHY) Specifications," IEEE Std 802.11-2007 
(Revision of IEEE Std 802.11-1999), 
pp.C1-1184.  
[A-5] M. Garetto, T. Salonidis, and E. Knightly, 
"Modeling Per-flow Throughput And Capturing 
Starvation in CSMA Multi-hop Wireless 
Networks," in Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM 
2006, Barcelona, Spain, April 2006. 
[A-6] J.-F. Lee, W. Liao, and M. C. Chen, "An 
Incentive-based Fairness Mechanism for 
Multi-hop Wireless Backhaul Networks with 
Selfish Nodes," in IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, Vol. 7, No. 2, Feb. 
2008 
[A-7] "IEEE Standard for Local and 
metropolitan area networks Part 16: Air 
Interface for Broadband Wireless Access 
Systems Amendment 1: Multiple Relay 
Specification," IEEE Std 802.16j-2009 
(Amendment to IEEE Std 802.16-2009) , vol., 
no., pp.c1-290, June 12 2009  
[A-8] "IEEE Draft STANDARD for 
Information Technology--Telecommunications 
and information exchange between 
systems--Local and metropolitan area 
networks--Specific requirements Part 11: 
Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) 
and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications 
Amendment 10: Mesh Networking," IEEE 
Unapproved Draft Std P802.11s/D6.0, June 
2010. 
[A-9] A. Kabbani, T. Salonidis, and E. W. 
Knightly, “Distributed Low-Complexity 
Maximum-Throughput Scheduling for Wireless 
Backhaul Networks,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
INFOCOM 2007, , Anchorage, AK, May 2007. 
[A-10] H. T. Cheng and W. Zhuang, “Pareto 
Optimal Resource Management for Wireless 
Mesh Networks with QoS Assurance: Joint 
Node Clustering and Subcarrier Allocation,” in 
IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, vol. 8, no. 3, March 2009. 
[A-11] X.-Y. Li, A. Nusairat, Y. Wu, Y. Qi, J. 
Zhao, X. Chu, and Y. Liu, "Joint Throughput 
Optimization for Wireless Mesh Networks," in 
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 8, 
no. 7, pp. 895-909, July 2009. 
[A-12] C. Cicconetti, I. F. Akyildiz, and L. 
Lenzini, "FEBA: A Bandwidth Allocation 
Algorithm for Service Differentiation in IEEE 
802.16 Mesh Networks," in IEEE Transactions 
on Networking, vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 884-897, 
June 2009. 
[A-13] B. Wang, and M. Mutka, “Qos-Aware 
Fair Rate Allocation in Wireless Mesh 
Networks,” in Elsevier Computer 
Communications, vol. 31, issue 7, pp. 
1276-1289, May 2008. 
[A-14] Y. Hou, and K. K. Leung, “A Distributed 
Scheduling Framework for Multi-User Diversity 
Gain and Quality of Service in Wireless Mesh 
Networks,” in IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, vol. 8, no. 12, Dec.2009. 
[A-15] P. Djukic, and S. Valaee, “Delay Aware 
Link Scheduling for Multi-Hop TDMA Wireless 
Networks,” in IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Networking, vol. 17, no. 3, June 2009. 
[A-16] I. Rhee, A. Warrier, J. Min, and L. Xu, 
“DRAND: Distributed Randomized TDMA 
Scheduling for Wireless Ad Hoc Networks,” in 
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 8, 
no. 10, Oct. 2009. 
[A-17] G. Sharma, R.R. Mazumdar and N.B. 
Shroff; “On The Complexity of Scheduling in 
Wireless Networks;” in Proceedings of ACM 
Mobicom 2006, pp. 227-238, 2006. 
[A-18] P. Gupta and P. R. Kumar, “The Capacity 
of Wireless Networks,” in IEEE Transactions on 
Information Theory, vol. 46, no. 2, pp. 388-404, 
Mar. 2000. 
[A-19] A. Vagish, T. Znati and R. Melhem, 
“Per-Node Delay Assignment Strategies for 
Real-Time High Speed Network,” in 
Proceedings of IEEE Globecom 1999, pp. 
1323-1327, Dec. 1999. 
[A-20] Y.-C. Tu, M. C. Chen, Y. S. Sun and W.-K. 
Shih, "Enhanced Bulk Scheduling for 
Supporting Delay Sensitive Streaming 
Applications," in Elseviser Computer Networks, 
Vol. 52, Issue 5, pp. 971-987, April 2008. 
[A-21] “Network Simulator ns-2,” 
http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns/. 
 
31 
 
1999, pp.447-454. 
[C-8]. J. D. Salehi, Z.-L. Zhang, J. Kurose, and 
D. Towsley, “Supporting Stored Video: 
Reducing Rate Variability and End-to-End 
Resource Requirements Through Optimal 
Smoothing,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Networking, vol. 6, no. 4, Aug. 1998, pp. 
397-410. 
[C-9]. B. Rong, Y. Qian, K. Lu, H.-H. Chen and 
M. Guizani, “Call Admission Control 
Optimization in WiMAX Networks,” IEEE 
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, Vol. 57, 
issue: 4, July 2008, pp. 2509-2522. 
[C-10]. S.-H. Lee, K.-Y. Whang, Y.-S. Moon, 
W.-S. Han, and I.-Y. Song, “Dynamic Buffer 
Allocation in Video-on-Demand Systems,” 
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data 
Engineering, vol. 15, issue: 6, Nov.-Dec. 2003, 
pp. 1535-1551. 
[C-11]. C. L. Liu and J. W. Layland, “Scheduling 
Algorithms for Multiprogramming in a Hard 
Real-Time Environment,” Journal of the ACM, 
vol. 20, no. 1, 1973, pp. 46-61. 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101 年 10 月 12 日 
1.參加動機 
對使用者來說，無線網路環境的使用經驗，最直接的品質感受來自於使用應用程
式時所得到回饋。為了突顯在無線網路中，群體移動以及快速移動的特性對傳輸品
質的影響，我們開發在手持終端裝置上的應用程式平台以評估本計畫之設計效能。
以此適地性服務平台為基礎，將可在不同移動車輛上，如國道客運、台鐵和高鐵，
使用手持裝置不斷感測地理位置、標記時間戳記，並即時回傳到 Internet 上的伺服
器，藉以分析無線傳輸的品質。 
計畫編號 NSC98-2221-E-001-005-MY3 
計畫名稱 在多段式/異質無線網路傳輸上之服務品質控制與移動管理 
出國人員
姓名 鄧宜峻 
服務機構
及職稱 
中央研究院資訊科學研究所 
研究助理 
會議時間 101年 9月 9日至 101 年 9 月 11 日 會議地點 大陸地區浙江省杭州市 
會議名稱 
(中文) IEEE 電子商務工程國際研討會 
(英文) IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)  PLASH: 一個以企業匯流排和服務導向元件為基礎之平台用
以開發與部署適地性服務 
(英文)  PLASH: An ESB-based platform for developing and deploying 
location aware services with SOC concepts 
 3
 
2.參加會議經過 
 本次會議在大陸地區杭州市進行，如同多數其他的 IEEE 研討會，本會議也是由當
地ㄧ學校承辦，此次會議由浙江大學承辦，杭州師範大學及阿里巴巴集團等單位協
辦。會議第一天在浙江省的省議會開會中心舉辦，內容有： 
A. 三場 Key note 演講： 
第一場由阿里巴巴參謀長曾鳴（也是他們公司附設研究院的首席領導）發表電子
商務未來在中國的展望，其引用了他們研究院近年研究發表的” 沙集模型”配合
一些數據來推估未來數年電子商務市場成長力道將持續維持。 
第二場由英國考文垂大學(Coventry University)教授 Anne James 介紹軟體工程
及電子商務於 2012 倫敦奧運之運用，順便也推廣了英國的人文風情，並鼓勵與
會人士前往參觀旅遊。 
第三場由維也納大學教授 Christian Huemer 介紹他們大學在軟體工程的教育學
程，以及近年來他們學校在商業資訊學的未來研究展望。另外，Huemer 教授也介
紹了商業資訊學在學術及產業上的新賣點。映像較深刻的內容是他們訂定研究議
題一定是把最新現實世界的商業環境納入考量。 
B. 浙江大學副校長介紹他們學校在電子商務發展的願景以及如何配合貫徹大陸地
區政府政策的目標。從他的報告可以看出來，電子商務發展被納入國家的計畫經
濟培養項目之一，這是好是壞，對台灣電子商務產業有什麼影響，是一個值得重
視的問題。 
C. 上述為上午早上的議程，下午行程為阿里巴巴集團所招開的網商（網路商店）電
 5
探討議題包含（但不限於）下列： 
a. 服務導向架構的網路服務設計方法學及分析 
b. 雲端服務架構及應用 
c. 情境感之服務及地理位置服務 
d. 語意服務的探勘及發現  
e. 服務與服務的合作及其方法學 
f. 服務的營運，監測及管理 
g. 手持裝置上的服務及應用程式的流程改進 
h. 服務導向架構的軌跡探勘及行為識別 
 
本次發表論文符合第 c 及 e項，並且，第 b,g 及 h 項皆為未來研究方向所涉及的領
域。本次論文報告時間為 20 分鐘，報告結束後共有下列三項問題： 
問題１:此系統是否以上線？ 
答：是的，而且由這系統所開發的安卓應用軟體也已在谷歌市場上上架
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=tw.plash.antrip。然後這是我們系統的入口點： 
www.plash.tw 
問題２:此系統是否開放原始碼？ 
答：此計畫為我國國科會所屬之計畫，原始碼開放與否需由計畫主持人在該單位規
範內做決定，目前原始碼沒有開放，但是我們有開放在 PLASH 上開發的程式語言介
面(API)，同時也提供範例，歡迎有興趣的人可以開發於 PLASH 上的服務。 
問題 3:目前在 PLASH 系統上開發的應用有哪些？ 
 7
c. S/T/A: Meta-Modeling Run-Time Adaptation in Component-Based System 
Architectures 
此篇論文是在 CEC 發表，此篇論文為提出他們創新的”Meta-Model Language”來描
述及設計一動態服務調整(Run-Time service adaptation)流程的架構，然後驗證
期效能。 
最後，觀察各報告者的行為模式與跟會議主持人互動的模式也讓我在學術服務上的
經驗更為精進。 
4.建議 
 此會議既有學術上的創新也有業界技術上的發展分享。會場裡有學界的教授跟研
究生、有業界的領導者與研究人員，產學雙方可以透過這個平台作意見交流與腦力
激盪。 因此，對於電子商務領域的研究人員，這是一個能夠了解該領域最新發展的
場所。 
5.攜回資料名稱及內容 
 會議議程書(含 CD) – 2012 ICEBE Conference Guide 
 白皮書：加速信息社會過程 – 電子商務和阿里巴巴商業生態的社會經濟影響 
 中國及阿里巴巴電子商務實踐、學界合作介紹 
 2011 ISPI 網路零售價格指數(iSPI)報告 
 “沙集模式＂調研報告 
 Shaji Model Research Report 
 Call for Papers: The 6th International Conference on Service Sciences 
and Innovation (ICSSI) 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/12/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 在多段式/異質無線網路傳輸上之服務品質控制與移動管理
計畫主持人: 陳孟彰
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-001-005-MY3 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
Network. 
 
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 100% 
Cheng-Wei Lee1, Meng 
Chang Chen and Yeali S. 
Sun, ＇＇＇＇Seamless 
Handover for 
High-speed Trains with 
Femtocell-based 
Multiple Network 
Interfaces,＇＇＇＇ 
submitted to IEEE ICC.
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他
協助產業技術發展
之 具 體 效 益 事 項
等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
