  2
中文摘要 
近年來，各種產業對於微小元件的需求
日益增加，而精密模具乃是量產各式元件之
重要載具，因此製造精密模具，藉以生產大
量奈米結構元件將是未來之發展趨勢。本研
究以陽極氧化鋁膜(AAO)之背阻障層結構做
為模仁的 3D 奈米結構圖形，於 AAO 阻障層
結構上濺鍍一層金薄膜做為電極，接著利用
電鑄技術於此電極上鍍上一層金屬，金屬之
厚度可由電鑄時間控制，最後將 AAO 蝕刻
掉，即得到具有 3D 奈米結構之金屬模仁。以
本研究之 3D 奈米結構金屬模仁技術結合合
作廠商之微熱壓成型技術壓印塑膠材料，僅
需數分鐘便可壓印出相同結構之奈米元件。
壓印之材料可為 PC、PVC 等塑膠材料，亦可
僅用3D奈米結構金屬模仁翻印如PLGA之生
物可降解生醫材料，大量製作奈米結構組織
工程支架。本研究之結果對許多研究或產業
之發展具有相當大的應用面。 
關鍵詞：奈米模具、奈米半球陣列、陽極氧
化鋁膜、奈米電鑄 
 
Abstract 
In replica molding or imprinting, 
robustness and durability of the replica mold are 
the main requirements for industrial 
applications. In this study, we demonstrate a 
replica mold fabrication method for 
nano-hemisphere arrays nanomolding by nickel 
electroforming using the highly ordered 
nano-hemisphere array of the barrier-layer 
surface of an anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) 
membrane as the master mold. The diameter 
and height of the hemispheric nanostructure are 
80 nm and 47 nm, respectively. The feature size 
of the nano-hemispheres can be further reduced 
by the use of a sulfuric acid etched AAO master 
mold. Using the Ni replica mold, 
nano-hemisphere arrays of polycarbonate (PC) 
were obtained by hot embossing, and 
nano-patterned poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) 
(PLGA) tissue engineering scaffolds were 
fabricated by casting. Those results indicate that 
the proposed nanomolding method is suitable 
for further industrial applications. 
Keywords: Nanomolding, nano-hemisphere 
array, anodic aluminum oxide, nickel 
electroforming 
 
Recent progress in nanofabrication 
enables wide applications of one-dimensional 
nano materials such as the nanoparticles, 
nanowires, and nanorod arrays [1, 2] in optical, 
electronic, photovoltaic and biomedical devices 
[3, 4]. The one-dimensional nano material can 
provide a substantially larger surface area than 
that of bulk material or thin films. An orderly 
and uniformly sized nanostructure array is 
extraordinarily useful [5-7].  
Fabrication of nanomaterials can be 
categorized into top-down approaches and 
bottom-up ones [8, 9]. For top-down fabrication, 
techniques such as lithography, writing or 
stamping are implemented to engrave or add 
aggregates of molecules to a surface. The 
bottom-up methods use self-processes to 
assemble atoms or molecules into more 
complex assemblies. Soft lithography and 
dip-pen lithography are two of the promising 
top-down approaches. Bottom-up methods are 
being used to produce atomic and molecular 
nanostructures at surface [10]. However, both 
the top-down and bottom-up approaches usually 
produce single nanodevice in one operation. For 
low cost mass production, the replica molding 
or imprinting [11, 12] methods which transfer 
patterns from a hard mold onto thermoplastic 
substances having low glass transition 
temperature are desired. In replica molding or 
imprinting, robustness and durability of the 
replica mold are the main requirements for 
industrial applications. Several materials have 
been used for the mold material. Silicon was 
employed due to its compatibility with 
semiconductor manufacturing process [13]. 
However, brittleness and less durability limit its 
applications. Poly vinyl chloride (PVC) based 
molds, which were duplicated from original 
high ordered silica ball array, were used for UV 
nanoimprinting of nano-sphere array on silicon 
and PET substrate [14]. Anodic aluminum oxide 
(AAO) membranes, having nano-size porous 
arrays of regular hexagonal-shaped cells with 
straight columnar channels, were utilized as 
templates for the fabrications of nanoring and 
nanocone arrays [15], hard PDMS 
(polydimethylsiloxane) nanopillar modes for 
UV nanoimprinting photonic crystal structure 
on GaN substrate [16], and orderly 
nanostructured poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) 
(PLGA) scaffolds for tissue engineering [17]. 
Bulk metallic glasses (BMGs) based molds, 
which were directly hot-embossed using master 
molds of Si, Ni, and AAO, were used to 
nanomold samples of the same alloy [18]. The 
feature size of the BMG molds was determined 
by the pattern size of the master molds. 
  4
area of the electrode could not be directly 
estimateded by geometric analysis. The cyclic 
voltammetric (CV) method [19] was used to 
examine the real area of the Au thin film 
deposited AAO barrier layer surface which is 
effective for the deposition of nickel thin film. 
The effective area of electrode was estimated 
according to the Randles-Sevcik equation as 
shown in Eq. (1).  
5 3/ 2 1/ 2 1/ 2(2.6 10 )pa oxI n AD v C  , (1) 
where Ipa is the peak height of voltammogram 
(A), n is the number of electrons appearing in 
half-reaction for the redox couple, A is the 
electrode area (cm2), D is the diffusion 
coefficient of the analyte (cm2/sec), v is the rate 
at which the potential is swept (V/sec), and Cox 
is the analyte concentration (mol/cm3).  Under 
the same conditions, the peak height is directly 
proportional to the area of the electrode.  
In this study, the device was dipped into a 
0.5 M H2SO4 solution for cyclic voltammetry 
scanning at a scanning rate of 100 mV/sec from 
0.0 V to 1.6 V. An electrochemical impedance 
spectroscopy (EIS) machine (Sversa Stat II, 
Princeton Applied Research, USA) was used for 
the CV test. 
 
(iii) Electroforming: 
    Electroforming was carried out using a 
micro-electro forming system (EGG 
Instruments corporation/Model 263A) with a 
bulk nickel anode and the chromium and gold 
coated AAO barrier layer surface as the cathode, 
under a constant current at temperature of 55C. 
The duration of electroforming depends on the 
desired thickness of the nickel replica mold. 
After deposition, the AAO template was etched 
by NaCl solution to obtain a replica mold of 
nano-hemisphere array. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
3.1 AAO template fabrication results 
Figure 2 shows SEM images of the 
modified barrier-layer surface after being 
etched in a 30 wt% phosphoric acid for 15 
minutes. Because of the internal stress during 
anodization, the etchant etched out more 
alumina at the borders between cells than at the 
cell surfaces, accordingly an array of orderly 
hemispheric nanostructure was obtained. The 
diameter and height of the hemispheric 
nanostructure as shown in Figure 2(b) are 80 
nm and 47 nm, respectively. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3. SEM images of the modified 
barrier-layer surfaces: (a) top view; (b) cross 
sectional view 
 
3.2 CV test results 
The cyclic voltammogram for the CV test is 
shown in Figure 4. Electric charges of 1.35 mC 
can be accumulated by integrating the area of 
the reducing peak in Figure 4. Since a charge of 
386 μC was required to form AuO per 1 cm2 of 
Au electrode, the effective area of the device 
was estimated to be 3.5 cm2 (1.35 mC/386 μC). 
In general, a 10 mA/cm2 current density is 
implemented for nickel deposition. Hence a 
current of 35 mA was used for the deposition of 
nickel thin film. 
 
 
Figure 4. Cyclic voltammogram for the CV test 
 
3.3 Nano nickel mold fabrication results 
 Figure 5 shows the SEM images of a nano 
nickel mold by electroforming. A concave nano 
structure array which is the complementary part 
of the nano-hemisphere array on an AAO 
barrier-layer side was obtained. The border to 
  6
in Figure 8. It consists of a PC substrate with a 
nano-hemisphere array, a gold thin film 
sputtered on the PC substrate to form the 
electrode, gold nanoparticles uniformly 
deposited on the film, and smaller silver 
nanoparticles deposited on the GNPs. 
 
Figure 8. Nano-structured PC-based biosensor 
 
(2) Nanomolding of tissue engineering scaffold 
 Biodegradability and biocompatibility are 
the main considerations for a tissue engineering 
scaffold. Among those commercially available 
biomaterials, poly PLGAhas been widely used 
in tissue engineering scaffold. Nano-patterned 
PLGA has even potential usefulness in tissue 
engineering. Many promising nano-patterned 
PLGA scaffolds have been reported [18, 24, 
25]. 
In this study, the nano nickel mold of 
concave nano structure array shown in Figure 5 
was used as a replica mold for the fabrication of 
nano- patterned PLGA scaffolds.  The PLGA 
solution was prepared by dissolving 85/15 
POLY, IV：1.6-1.99 (dl/g), Mw:350000-500000 
(Da) (Bio Invigor Corp., Taiwan) in acetone at a 
w/w ratio of 1:4. The mixture was then stirred 
with a magneto agitator for 60 min at 60C. The 
PLGA solution was then shaken in an ultrasonic 
shaker for 15 min to remove bubbles created 
during mixing. Following, the PLGA solution 
was then casted on a nano-structure Ni mold. 
The mold and the casted PLGA film were left at 
room temperature for 24 h to allow the acetone 
to gradually evaporate and the polymer to 
solidify. A nano-patterned PLGA scaffold was 
obtained after demolding. 
Figure 9 shows an AFM image of the 
casted nano-patterned PLGA scaffold. It can be 
observed that the hemispheric nano-structures 
of PLGA are uniformly distributed. The 
proposed nano-structure mold can be a feasible 
tool for the fast and mass production of 
nano-patterned PLGA scaffolds for tissue 
engineering. SEM images were also taken. 
However, the nano-pattern of the PLGA 
scaffold was damaged when a high 
magnification image was taken. 
 
Figure 9. AFM image of an nano-patterned 
PLGA scaffold by replica casting 
 
5. Conclusion 
In this study, replica mold fabrication for 
nano-hemisphere arrays by nickel 
electroforming using the highly ordered 
nano-hemisphere array of the barrier-layer 
surface of an AAO membrane as the master 
mold is presented. The sequential fabrication 
processes of the proposed replica mold of 
nano-hemisphere array are AAO film 
preparation, barrier-layer surface modification, 
Au thin film deposition, electrode annealing, 
device packaging, and Ni electroforming. The 
diameter and height of the hemispheric 
nanostructure were found to be 80 nm and 47 
nm, respectively. The feature size of the 
nano-hemispheres can be further reduced by the 
use of a sulfuric acid etched AAO master mold. 
The Ni replica molds were employed to 
duplicate nano-hemisphere arrays of 
polycarbonate (PC) by hot embossing and to 
fabricate nano-patterned poly(lactic-co-glycolic 
acid) (PLGA) scaffolds by casting. Those 
results reveal that the proposed nanomolding 
scheme is suitable for further industrial 
applications. 
 
References 
1. Martin CR. Nanomaterials: a 
membrane-based systhetic approach. 
Science 1994; 266, 1961-1966. 
2. Yamauchi Y, Suzuki N, Radhakrishnan L, 
Wang L. Breakthrough and future: 
nanoscale controls of compositions, 
morphologies, and mesochannel 
orientations toward advanced mesoporous 
materials. Chem Rec. 2009; 9(6), 321-39. 
3. Kim BY, Rutka JT, Chan WC. 
Nanomedicine. N Engl J Med. 2010; 
363(25), 2434-43. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/24
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 微奈米生醫晶片前端製程量產技術研發
計畫主持人: 王國禎
計畫編號: 99-2622-E-005-007-CC3 學門領域: 生醫技術及自動化
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究以陽極氧化鋁膜(AAO)之背阻障層結構做為模仁的 3D 奈米結構圖形，於
AAO 阻障層結構上濺鍍一層金薄膜做為電極，接著利用電鑄技術於此電極上鍍
上一層金屬，金屬之厚度可由電鑄時間控制，最後將 AAO 蝕刻掉，即得到具有
3D 奈米結構之金屬模仁。以本研究之 3D 奈米結構金屬模仁技術結合合作廠商
之微熱壓成型技術壓印塑膠材料，僅需數分鐘便可壓印出相同結構之奈米元
件。壓印之材料可為 PC、PVC 等塑膠材料。未來預期結合台灣優勢產業：台中
榮總(醫學中心)、群燿電子(IC 設計)、立成精密(精密射出成型、印刷電路板、
封裝)，合作開發量產晶片技術，再配合可攜式阻抗檢測儀器，達到低成本、高
靈敏度、低檢體使用量、省時之檢測技術。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
