different spindle tool unit. 
 
2behavior because the bearing stiffness may vary with changes in the preload under different operating conditions.
At high speed operation conditions, the gyroscopic and centrifugal effect on spindle dynamic stability is profound
[12-14]. Using a spindle-bearing assembly model, Jiang and Zheng [14] found that the bearing stiffness decreased
with the increasing rotational speed and hence lowered the dynamic stiffness of the spindle nose.
The common approach to chatter prediction is based on calculating only the frequency transfer functions of
the spindle and tooling system [15, 16]. However, structural stiffness of the main modularized parts and the
stiffness of the interfaces between combined components are predominant factors influencing the overall stiffness
of a machine-tool structure. In addition, as mentioned above, the behavior of a spindle tool unit may be in some
cases influenced by its interaction with the machine tool frame. Under such conditions, relevant predictions of the
spindle dynamic properties can be made using a model of the whole spindle-machine frame system [9]. The
coupling of the spindle and machine frame models, possibly complemented with a tool model, also represents an
important contribution to the tasks of advanced tool tip movement and workpiece surface quality.
Consequently, it is expected that the effects of bearing preloading on the spindle dynamics and on the dynamic
response at the tool tip that is associated with the machine machining performance will be very apparent. However,
to the author’s knowledge, this effect has not been realized, and hence, it is worthwhile to evaluate the influence of
spindle bearing on the dynamic characteristics of a milling machine. The aim of this study was to investigate the
machining stability of vertical milling under the influence of a spindle bearing. A frequency-characteristic analysis is of
great importance for gaining an understanding of the dynamic performance of the milling system. Therefore, a finite
element model of the spindle and vertical column spindle system were constructed respectively to examine the
bearing effect. And finally, with the integration of the modeling of spindle unit and machine tool structure, the
dynamic harmonic analysis under simulated cutting force conditions was performed in order to assess the dynamic
behavior. The simulation results were validated by performing vibration tests on a spindle and machine prototype.
2. Modeling of the rolling interface
The key point for accurate modeling of dynamic characteristics of a high speed spindle unit and machine tool
structure is the simulation of the rolling elements within the ball grooves of the linear components. The rolling
interface primarily determines whether the simulation results approach the real characteristics of the system
[17,18]. Therefore, these linear components should be appropriately introduced into analysis model of milling
machine.
Fig. 1 shows the angular contact ball bearing and linear guide, which are all designed with contact profile of a
circular arc so as to provide the capabilities to withstand external loads from both different directions when they
are properly preloaded. In these components, the contact status between ball groove and rolling ball is a two-point
or four-point contact mode, depending on the contact geometry of these linear components. Such contact status
actually can be regarded as at Hertzian contact mode and hence the contact force between a rolling ball and the
raceway can be related to the local deformation at the contact point by the Hertzian expression [19]. The contact
stiffness at the contact point can further be determined using the Harris model in [20Harris 1991]. This model
describes the dependence of the bearing internal condition (contact angles, contact forces, contact deformation) on
its external condition (external load, external deformation). A brief description as follows:
Fig. 1 Configuration spindle bearings and rolling ball
groove within linear guide.
Fig. 2 Schematic of contact status between ball groove
and rolling ball, and the modeling of the rolling interface.
40
2
4
6
8
10
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
Frequency, (Hz)
V
ib
ra
ti
o
n
le
ve
l,(
g
/N
)
×100
2200 Hz
3360 Hz
Fig. 5 Vibration testing rig and the measured vibration
spectrum of spindle, showing the modal frequencies at 2220
Hz and 3360HZ.
To enhance spindle dynamic stiffness, bearings can be preloaded. The use of preloading bearings is standard
practice in machine tool applications. In this study, in order to examine the effect of the bearing preload on its
dynamic characteristics, the preload was set at slight (12N), light (25N), medium (59N) and high (120N) for front
bearing, and slight (15N), light (34N), medium (69N) and high (150N) for rear bearing following the bearing
technical manual. Bearing stiffness values were then determined using the above presented Harris’s model. The
value of the bearing total stiffness is distributed among the spring elements created in the FE model along the
spindle shaft. The bearing model can also able to take account of changes in the bearing stiffness due to the shaft
rotation. Catalogue data on bearing dimensions, the Hertz contact theory and the bearing inner geometry changes
due to the ring curvature centre movement can also be considered in the calculation. The dynamic characteristics
of the spindle under different bearing preload were evaluated by modal and harmonic analysis.
2.2 Dynamic characteristics of the spindle unit
2.2.1 Vibration mode and frequency
According to the modal analysis, the fundamental vibration modes for spindle shaft with bearing preload of
12 and 14N in front and rear bearings were depicted in Fig.4, which show that the dominant modes are associated
with the bending vibrations of the spindle shaft. For each mode, the maximum displacement is found to occur at
the spindle tip. The vibration frequencies corresponding to the 1st, 2nd and 3rd mode are 2080, 2119 and 3474 Hz
respectively.
The finite element predicted modal frequency was validated by vibration test on spindles. Fig. 5 shows the
testing configuration of the spindle with light preloaded bearings, in which an accelerometer was mounted on the
spindle collet to measure the vibration signal excited by the impact hammer at the tool tip. It is found that the
spindle shaft vibration at modal frequencies at 2220 Hz and 3360HZ, which agree well with the results of finite
Fig. 3 High speed engraving spindle unit and finite
element model, including the housing, shaft and bearings.
Fig. 4 Fundamental vibration modes for spindle shaft with
bearing preload of 12 and 14N in front and rear bearings.
636000 rpm, was installed on the feeding stage. Fig.8 shows the global coordinate system used in the machine
model, where the X and Y axes are defined as the two horizontal axes, and the Z axis is the vertical axis in the
column direction. A local coordinate system was defined at the spindle head to describe the vibration mode.
3.2 Finite element model of machine frame
Fig.9 presents the finite element model of a vertical column spindle structure including a motorized spindle
tool. After a convergence test, each structural component of the system was meshed with eight-node brick
elements with a total of 38121 elements and 46597 nodes. The components of the feeding mechanism, including
the ball bearing, ball screw, and ball nut, and the linear guides were included in the model. To make the model
realistic, the main bodies of the linear components were modeled as solid elements and connected to spring
elements at the rolling interfaces. A rolling guide has four ball grooves with circular profiles, forming a two-point
contact state between the rolling ball and the groove. Following the modeling method for bearing, the four rolling
grooves in linear guide were simplified as two grooves, as shown in Fig. 2. The sliding block and guide rail were
directly connected using a series of spring elements by ignoring the effect of the rolling balls. The spring elements
at each ball groove had an overall contact stiffness equivalent to that of the original guide model. Given the
specifications of the rolling guides (ball diameter d=3.175 mm, diameter of circular groove D=3.297 mm, dynamic
loading capacity C=11380 N), the contact stiffness Kn was calculated as 9.76N/μm for low preloading, 18.7N/μm 
for medium preloading, and 21.7N/μm for high preloading.
In a similar manner, the ball screw was modeled as a
cylindrical shaft and meshed with 3D solid elements rather
than flexible beam elements. The overall stiffness in the radial
and axial directions could be directly determined based on the
dimensions of the screw spindle and ball nut. In addition, to
reduce the complexity and inconvenience of meshing the
helical groove around the screw shaft, the contact between the
screw and the nut was simplified to a circular contact mode,
as shown in Fig.9. With this simplified mode, the rolling
interface at the ball groove was simulated with elastic spring
elements connecting the ball nut and the screw shaft. Given
the specifications of the ball screw, the associated contact
stiffness at the screw groove was estimated as 152 N/μm, 
which is slightly less than that obtained from technical
information [26] for the bal nut (approximately 168 N/μm). 
Fig. 9 Finite element mode of the machine frame of milling
machine, including the ball screw, linear guide and
supported bearings.
Fig. 8 Structure the vertical milling machine, including column
frame, feeding mechanism and spindle head associated with the
spindle unit.
Fig. 10 Finite element mode of the machine frame of
milling machine integrated with the spindle-bearing
model.
8The modal-analysis result was verified via a vibration test conducted on the vertical column spindle structure,
as shown in Fig. 12, in which accelerometers were mounted on the spindle head to measure the vibration signal
induced by an instrumented hammer. In this manner, the yawing mode of the spindle head about the X-axis in the
local coordinate system was measured. Fig.13 depicts the frequency spectra corresponding to the yawing and
pitching vibrations of the spindle head and spindle tool tail. The natural frequencies corresponding to the first and
second pitching motions and the yawing vibration were measured as 310, 350, 408 and 480 Hz, respectively, and
the vibration frequency associated with the bending of spindle shaft is about 2200 Hz, which is also close to the
measured natural mode of spindle unit. Comparisons with the data in Table 1 show that the finite element
predictions agree well with the experimental result. This further confirms the accuracy of the modeling of the
vertical spindle column structure, which consists of the rolling interfaces in the various linear components.
The frequency response functions of the machine structure play important roles in the prediction of the system
dynamic behavior and the machining stabilities with or without regenerative chatter. In general, the dynamic
response of the machining system can be obtained through harmonic analysis. The structural damping parameter
required for the harmonic analysis was calculated from the experimentally measured vibration signal using the
Half-power method. In finite element governing equation for harmonic analysis, the damping matrix was assumed
to be proportional to the structural stiffness matrix, [K] according to the relationship [C] = [K]. The value βmr,
representing the structural damping factor, is calculated from 2mr/wr , wheremr is the modal damping ratio for
spindle dominant vibration mode, about 2.5%.
Fig. 12 Vibration test conducted on the vertical column spindle structure, showing the location of accelerometer and
impact hammer.
Accelerometer, A
Accelerometer, B
For yawing mode for spindle head
Accelerometer, B
For bending mode of spindle tool
Fig. 11 Fundamental vibration modes of vertical milling system with modeling of spindle-bearing system in spindle unit.
10
From these figures, we also find that the resonance frequency vertical milling machine will increase with
increase of the preload amount of the spindle-bearings; at the same time, the minimum dynamic stiffness of the
vertical column -spindle tool system will increase with the preload amount of spindle bearing preload. According
to the predicted FRF, the lowest dynamic stiffness in the X direction was calculated as 0.46, 0.48, and 0.52N/m
respectively for spindle tool unit with slight, light and medium preloaded bearings. On other respect, despite of the
preload amount of spindle bearing, the dynamic stiffness induced at the yawing mode for different FE model of
milling system are almost identical, about 2.43N/m, which is higher than these induced at the bending mode of
spindle. This means that when the spindle operates at lower frequency, the linear guide preload will have more
influence on the milling system stiffness, to the contrary, when the spindle operates at higher frequency about
2000Hz, the preload of spindle bearing will affect the stiffness.
Besides, it is worth to notice that the vertical milling with spindle tool unit show a higher stiffness than the
only the spindle tool unit. This clearly indicates that the machine frame structure and head stock will affect the
stiffness of spindle tool unit when it was mounted on the headstock; while appropriate design of machine frame
structure with enough structural stiffness can help to increase the overall stiffness of the spindle tool unit. The
results of the harmonic analysis indicate that compared with the yawing and pitching modes of spindle head, the
bending mode of the spindle tool unit dominates the dynamic characteristics of the vertical milling machine. It can
be expected that the spindle tool unit will behave more compliantly when the high frequency bending vibration is
induced during machining. This consequently causes the spindle tool to deform greatly or to vibrate unstably and
is likely to degrade the machining performance. Based on these results, we can verify that the preload of the
spindle bearings is an important component that affects the dynamic characteristics of the entire vertical column
structure of the milling machine.
5. Conclusions
The purpose of this paper is to develop a dynamic modeling and analysis model of spindle unit integrated with
machine frame. With the model, the dynamic characteristics of a spindle tool unit with different bearing preload
were analyzed. Current results indicate the bending vibration of the spindle shaft is the main mode affecting the
dynamic compliance of the spindle tool unit. The bearing preload was found have a certain influence on the
dynamic characteristics of the spindle tool unit. For the investigation of the dynamic characteristics of a vertical
milling machine, the spindle-bearing model was incorporated with the machine frame model. This full finite
element of a milling machine was successfully verified by the vibration test performed on the prototype machine.
-0.800
-0.300
0.200
0.700
200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
Frequency, (Hz)
D
ya
m
ic
co
m
p
lia
n
ce
,
R
ea
lp
ar
t
(u
m
/N
)
with light bearing preload
with medium bearing preload
Without spindle bearing model
-2.000
-1.500
-1.000
-0.500
0.000
0.500
1.000
1.500
2.000
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500
Frequency, (Hz)
D
ya
m
ic
co
m
p
lia
n
ce
,
R
ea
lp
ar
t
(u
m
/N
)
with slight bearing preload
with light bearing preload
with medium bearing preload
Without spindle bearing model
Fig. 14 Frequency responses of the spindle tip in terms of the amplitude and dynamic compliance of real part, respectively. The
preload of spindle bearings are set at different amount in the finite element model of milling machine.
12
12. M.R. Movahhedy, P Mosaddegh, Prediction of chatter in high speed milling including gyroscopic effects.
International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture, 46(9) (2006) 996-1001.
13. C. W Lin, J. F. Tu, J. Kamman, An integrated thermo-mechanical-dynamic model to characterize
motorized machine tool spindles during very high speed rotation, International Journal of Machine Tools
and Manufacture, 43(2003)1035-1050.
14. S. Y. Jiang, S. F. Zheng, A modeling approach for analysis and improvement of spindle-drawbar-bearing
assembly dynamics. International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture, 50( 2010)131-142.
15. Y. Altintas and S. Park, Dynamic compensation of spindle-integrated force sensors. CIRP Annals –
Manufacturing Technology 53(1 (2004)305-308.
16. Y. Altintas and Y. Cao, Virtual design and optimization of machine tool spindles. CIRP Annals
Manufacturing Technology, 54(1)(2005) 379-382.
17. J. P. Hung, Load effect on the vibration characteristics of a stage with rolling guides, Journal of Mechanical
Science and Technology 23(1) (2009) 92-102.
18. C. Y. Lin, J. P. Hung, T. L. Lo, Effect of preload of linear guides on dynamic characteristics of a vertical
column–spindle system, International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture 5(8) (2010) 741-746.
19. K. J. Johnson, Contact mechanics, Cambridge University Press (1985).
20. T.A. Harris, in: Rolling Bearing Analysis, third ed., John Wiley and Sons, New York, 1991.
21. D. E. Brewe, B. J. Hamrock, Simplified solution for elliptical-contact deformation between two elastic
solid, Trans. ASME, Journal of Lubrication Technology 99 (1997) 485-487.
22. J. A. Greenwood, Analysis of elliptical Herztian contacts, Tribology International 30 (1997) 235-237.
23. J. P. Hung, Y.L. Lai, C. Y. Lin, T. L. Luo, Modeling the machining stability of vertical milling machine
under the influence of the preloaded linear guide, International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture.
51(9)(2011)731-739.
24. Hiwin Technologies Company. Hiwin linear guideway technical information. Taiwan: Hiwin Company;
2000. http://www.hiwin.com/online_cat
25. Hiwin Technologies Company. Hiwin ballscrews technical information. Taiwan: Hiwin Company; 2000.
http://www.hiwin.com/online_cat
26. THK Technologies Company. THK Ball screw technical information: ball screw peripheral.
http://www.thk.com/online_cat.
27. THK CO., LTD., Features of the LM Guide, http://www.thk.com/online_cat.
At high speed operation conditions, the gyroscopic and centrifu-
gal effect on spindle dynamic stability is profound [16–18]. Using
a spindle-drawbar-bearing assembly model, Jiang and Zheng [18]
found that the bearing stiffness decreased with the increasing
rotational speed and hence lowered the dynamic stiffness of the
spindle nose. Jiang and Mao [19] further developed a variable
preload control system to suppress the gyroscopic and centrifugal
effect and to stabilize the dynamic characteristics of spindle at
wider speed ranges.
A linear rolling guide is commonly used in high-precision
positioning systems. In the case of this component, the preload
effect caused by the use of oversized rolling balls inside the ball
groove affects not only the structural rigidity but also the
vibration characteristics of the positioning stage [20–22]. The
results of our previous study [23] indicate that feeding stages
equipped with rolling guides at different preloads exhibited
different vibration behavior, and this affected the dynamic stiff-
ness of the vertical column spindle system. Jiang and Zhu [24]
indicated that the joint interfacial characteristics could be
affected by cutting load, which further affect the higher frequency
vibration behavior of a vertical milling machine.
As revealed by the abovementioned studies, in addition to the
structural stiffness of the main modularized parts, the stiffness of
the interfaces between combined components is a predominant
factor that inﬂuences the overall stiffness of a machine tool
structure. Consequently, it is expected that the effects of preload-
ing on the machining performance will vary as the speciﬁcations
of the linear guide vary. However, to the author’s knowledge, this
effect has not been realized, and hence, it is worthwhile to
evaluate the inﬂuence of the rolling interfaces on the machining
stability of a milling machine.
The aim of this study was to investigate the machining stability
of vertical milling under the inﬂuence of a linear guide modulus.
A frequency–characteristic analysis is of great importance for gain-
ing an understanding of the dynamic performance of the milling
system. Therefore, a ﬁnite element model of the vertical column
spindle system was ﬁrst constructed with the integration of the
modeling of linear rolling components. By using this model, a
harmonic analysis under simulated cutting force conditions was
performed in order to assess the dynamic behavior and subsequent
cutting stability of the milling machine. Finally, the simulation
results were validated by performing vibration tests and machining
experiments on a prototype machine.
2. Construction of vertical milling machine
To examine the inﬂuence of the linear guide preload on the
machining characteristics, a small-scale vertical milling machine
was designed and fabricated, as shown in Fig. 1. The vertical
column and the feeding stage of the spindle head were con-
structed using carbon steel plates. Two linear rolling guides were
secured on the front plate of the column at a span of 160 mm. The
feeding stage of the spindle head was mounted on the column
using pairs of linear guides and was driven with a high-precision
ball screw. The commercial linear guides (HG series) have four
ball grooves with a circular arc proﬁle, forming a point contact at
an angle of 451 [25]. To enhance their rigidity, the sliding blocks of
the linear guide can be preloaded to different levels by setting
oversized steel balls within the ball grooves. The levels are low
preloading (Z0, 0.01C), medium preloading (ZA, 0.07C), and heavy
preloading (ZB, 0.11C), where C denotes the dynamic load rating
(11.38 kN). The ball screw has a diameter of 14 mm, a lead pitch
of 4 mm, and a basic dynamic load rating C of 4.07 kN and it is
slightly preloaded to a level of 0.06C so as to decrease the axial
backlash [26]. Further, to ensure rigidity balance with the ball
screw, standardized ball-screw support units coded EK12 and
EF10 were used at both ends of the screw shaft [27]. The
speciﬁcations of the linear components are listed in Table 1. In
addition, a high-frequency spindle unit, with a weight of 4.1 kg
and a maximum speed of 36,000 rpm, was installed on the
feeding stage. Fig. 1 shows the global coordinate system used in
the machine model, where the X and Y axes are deﬁned as the two
horizontal axes, and the Z-axis is the vertical axis in the column
direction. A local coordinate system was deﬁned at the spindle
head to describe the vibration mode.
3. Finite element modeling
The key point for accurate modeling of a machine tool
structure is the simulation of the rolling elements within the ball
Y
X
Machine coordinate 
High speed spindle
Sliding carriage
Spindle head
z
y
x
Z
z
Coupling
Linear guides
  Ball screw /nut
Ball bearing
Vertical column
Fig. 1. Schematic construction of a vertical column milling structure with motorized spindle.
J.-P. Hung et al. / International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture 51 (2011) 731–739732
3.2. Creation of ﬁnite element model
Fig. 2 presents the ﬁnite element model of a vertical column
spindle structure including a motorized spindle tool. After a
convergence test, each structural component of the system was
meshed with eight-node brick elements with a total of 38,121
elements and 46,597 nodes. The components of the feeding
mechanism, including the ball bearing, ball screw, and ball nut,
and the linear guides were included in the model. To make the
model realistic, the main bodies of the linear components were
modeled as solid elements and connected to spring elements at
the rolling interfaces. A rolling guide has four ball grooves with
circular proﬁles, forming a two-point contact state between the
rolling ball and the groove. To reduce the complexity of the mesh
generation of the rolling grooves in the model, the four rolling
grooves were represented as two grooves, as shown in Fig. 2(b).
The sliding block and guide rail were directly connected using a
series of spring elements by ignoring the effect of the rolling balls.
The spring elements at each ball groove had an overall contact
stiffness equivalent to that of the original guide model. This
two-point contact mode greatly increased the efﬁciency of the
analysis model without affecting the accuracy of the results.
Given the speciﬁcations of the rolling guides (ball diameter
d¼3.175 mm, diameter of circular groove D¼3.297 mm, dynamic
loading capacity C¼11,380 N), the contact stiffness Kn was calcu-
lated as 9.76 N/mm for low preloading, 18.7 N/mm for medium
preloading, and 21.7 N/mm for high preloading.
In a similar manner, the ball screw was modeled as a cylindrical
shaft and meshed with 3D solid elements rather than ﬂexible beam
elements [32]. The overall stiffness in the radial and axial directions
could be directly determined based on the dimensions of the screw
spindle and ball nut. In addition, to reduce the complexity and
Table 2
Experimentally measured vibration frequencies and damping ratios of the vertical column spindle systems.
Vibration mode Low preload (Z0) High preload (ZB)
Natural frequency (Hz) Damping ratio, x Natural frequency (Hz) Damping ratio, x
Pitching vibration of spindle head,
accompanied with bending vibration of vertical column
255 0.009 310 0.006
Pitching vibration of spindle head 335 0.013 390 0.008
Yawing vibration of spindle head 355 0.008 465 0.005
Frequency response of spindle head in X-direction
1.0E-01
1.0E+00
1.0E+01
1.0E+02
1.0E+03
1.0E+04
1.0E+05
200
Frequency, (Hz)
D
yn
am
ic
 s
tif
fn
es
s,
 (N
/u
m
)
Low preload
High preload (ZB)
Medium preload
300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
Frequency response of spindle head in Y-direction
1.0E-01
1.0E+00
1.0E+01
1.0E+02
1.0E+03
1.0E+04
200
Frequency, (Hz)
D
yn
am
ic
 s
tif
fn
es
s,
 (N
/u
m
) Low preload (Z0)
High preload (ZB)
Medium preload  (ZA)
300 400 500 600 700 800
Fig. 4. The frequency responses of the spindle tip in the X and Y directions, respectively, comparing the difference in dynamic stiffness between the head equipped with
low and high preloaded guides, respectively.
J.-P. Hung et al. / International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture 51 (2011) 731–739734
3.3. Model identiﬁcation with vibration test
To validate the ﬁnite element model, we ﬁrst performed modal
analysis to obtain the natural vibration characteristics of the
vertical column spindle head. We compared the results with
experimental measurements. According to the ﬁnite element
simulation [19], the vibration motions associated with the ver-
tical column spindle head are critical modes that lead to a lower
dynamic stiffness in the spindle. They are illustrated in Fig. 3(a) as
the pitching and yawing vibration modes, respectively, of the
spindle head.
The natural frequencies of the spindle head predicted by modal
analysis are listed in Table 1. When the feeding stage of the spindle
head is equipped with linear guides with a small preload (Z0), the
frequencies associated with the ﬁrst and second pitching motions and
the yawing motion of the spindle head are 262, 332, and 325 Hz,
respectively. For a feeding stage with linear guides with a high
preload (ZB), the corresponding natural frequencies of the spindle
head are 310, 407, and 483 Hz. Comparisons of the results in Table 1
indicate that the linear guide preload has a large inﬂuence on the
vibration frequency of the spindle head. The frequency increases by
18–37% when the preload of the linear guide at the feeding stage is
adjusted from Z0 to ZB.
The modal-analysis result was veriﬁed via a vibration test
conducted on the vertical column spindle structure. Fig. 3(a)
presents a schematic for the vibration testing, in which acceler-
ometers were mounted on the spindle head to measure the
vibration signal induced by an instrumented hammer. In this
manner, the yawing mode of the spindle head about the X-axis
in the local coordinate system was measured. Fig. 3(b) depicts the
frequency spectra corresponding to the yawing and pitching
vibrations of the spindle head that was mounted on the feeding
stage with low preload linear guides. The natural frequencies
corresponding to the ﬁrst and second pitching motions and the
yawing vibration were measured as 255, 335, and 355 Hz, respec-
tively. Comparisons with the data in Tables 1 and 2 show that the
ﬁnite element predictions agree well with the experimental result.
This further conﬁrms the accuracy of the modeling of the vertical
spindle column structure, which consists of the rolling interfaces in
the various linear components.
The frequency response functions of the machine structure
play important roles in the prediction of the system dynamic
behavior and the machining stabilities with or without regenera-
tive chatter. In general, the dynamic response of the machining
system can be obtained through harmonic analysis. The structural
damping parameter required for the harmonic analysis was
calculated from the experimentally measured vibration signal
using the Half-power method. Table 2 presents the damping
ratios of the vertical column spindle structure in the X and Y
directions. We found that the damping characteristics are affected
by the preload of the linear guides. A vertical spindle head system
installed with a high preloaded guide modulus has a lower
damping characteristic than that with a low preloaded linear
guide. In addition, the vertical column spindle system has
different structural damping characteristics in different vibration
directions. This is caused in part by the inherent damping
capability of the linear guides that was also shown to vary with
the preload of the rolling ball [33].
In ﬁnite element governing equation for harmonic analysis, the
damping matrix was assumed to be proportional to the structural
stiffness matrix, [K] according to the relationship [C]¼b[K]. The
value bmr, representing the structural damping factor, is calcu-
lated from 2xmr/wr , where xmr is the modal damping ratio for a
particular vibration mode. This assumption indicates that the
damping characteristics is frequency-dependent, governed by the
dominant vibration mode of the machine tool system.
3.4. Prediction of tool-point frequency response
To predict the frequency response function of the vertical
column spindle structure, a harmonic analysis was performed on
the validated ﬁnite element model by applying a unit force at the
spindle tip. Fig. 4 illustrates the frequency response of the spindle
tip in the X and Y directions, respectively, and also demonstrates
the inﬂuence of the preload of the linear guide modulus. The
lowest dynamic stiffness in the X direction was calculated as
0.352, 0.81, and 0.903 N/mm, respectively, for spindle heads with
low-, medium-, and high-preloaded guides. In addition, the low-
est dynamic stiffness occurs at the frequency of the yawing
vibration of the spindle head. For the dynamic response in the Y
direction, the spindle head has a minimum stiffness ranging from
1.17 to 2.41 N/mm depending on the preload of the linear guides.
Comparing with the results in Fig. 4, we see that the stiffness in
the X direction is weaker than that in the Y direction since the
linear guide is more rigid in the normal direction of the sliding
blocks than in the lateral directions.
The frequency-induced minimum stiffness in the Y direction
was found to approach the pitching vibration of the spindle head.
The results of the harmonic analysis indicate that the yawing
and pitching modes of the spindle head dominate the dynamic
characteristics of the vertical milling machine. It can be expected
that the spindle head will behave more compliantly when
the yawing or pitching vibration is induced during machining.
This consequently causes the spindle tool to deform greatly
or to vibrate unstably and is likely to degrade the machining
performance.
Based on these results, we can verify that the linear guide
supporting the feeding stage of the spindle head is an important
component that affects the dynamic characteristics of the entire
vertical column structure of the milling machine
4. Prediction of machining stability and experimental
veriﬁcation
4.1. Stability model and stability lobe diagram
The machining stability of the vertical milling machine can be
predicted based on the analytical model developed by Alintas and
Budak [7,8]. In their approach, the time-varying force coefﬁcient of
the dynamic milling process model was approximated by Fourier-
series components. Following this, the stability relationship between
Fig. 6. Conﬁguration of machining tests on the vertical milling machine.
J.-P. Hung et al. / International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture 51 (2011) 731–739736
structure; as a result, the structure exhibits the lowest dynamic
stiffness. Therefore, the tool-point frequency response functions
at the central point of the spindle tool were predicted to obtain
the stability lobes. The stability lobe diagram was obtained
by integrating the ﬁnite-element-predicted tool-tip frequency
response in the X direction into the chatter stability approaches.
Fig. 5 illustrates the stability diagrams of the vertical milling
machine, showing the differences in the stability boundary
resulting from linear guides with different preloads. As seen in
Fig. 5, when high preloaded guides were installed on the spindle
feeding stage, the limiting axial depth with free chatter is about
2.9 mm for spindle speeds ranging from 4000 to 8000 rpm. For
the spindle feeding stage equipped with guides with medium or
low preloads the minimum axial depth with free chatter is
reduced to approximately 2.3 and 1.6 mm, respectively, for the
same spindle-speed range. The results of the stability analysis
verify that the linear guide preload signiﬁcantly affects the
vertical milling machine behavior.
4.2. Experimental veriﬁcation: machining test
The cutting stability boundaries predicted in the above sec-
tions were experimentally veriﬁed by a machining test. As shown
in Fig. 6, the machining tests were conducted using a prototype of
the vertical milling machine in which a linear guide modulus with
low preload was installed in the feeding stage of the spindle head.
A Tungsten carbide cutter (two teeth with a diameter of 5 mm
and length of 50 mm) was used to machine the stock material of
Al7075. Full-immersion slots were milled at varying axial depths
and spindle speeds in the X direction at a constant feeding rate of
75 mm/min. The evaluation of the machining stability was based
on the vibration signal measured at the spindle head during the
machining and a visual examination of the machined surface.
Moreover, for a reliable reference without chatter, an initial
chatter-free cutting depth was chosen for a speciﬁed spindle
speed according to the predicted stability lobe diagram.
The experimental results are compared with the predicted
stability lobes in Fig. 5(a). Each cutting with chatter is indicated
by a solid circle and each cutting without chatter by an open
circle. For example, for a cutting with an axial depth of 2 mm,
chatter was detected at spindle speeds of 4000, 5400, and
7376 rpm, but no chatter occurred when the spindle speed was
8000 rpm. At a spindle speed of 4000 rpm, unstable cutting was
observed when the cutting depth was set to 2 mm, but no chatter
occurred when the depth was adjusted to 1 mm. The chatter was
observed and veriﬁed from the vibration spectrum presented in
Fig. 7. It is obvious that at the same cutting depth (2.0 mm), the
vibration amplitudes induced at spindle speeds of 4000 and
5400 rpm are greater than those induced at speeds of 6000 and
8000 rpm. A series of tests for a cutting depth of 2.5 mmwere also
performed. As shown in Fig. 5(a), the cutting states for spindle
speeds of 4000, 6000, and 8000 rpm were located at the margin of
the stability lobe diagram. However, signiﬁcant chattering vibra-
tions were measured in machining tests when the spindle was
operated at 4000, 6000, and 7376 rpm and no chatter was
observed for a spindle speed of 8000 rpm. A visual examination
of the machined surface also helps to identify the results of stable
and unstable machining, as shown in Fig. 8. In this ﬁgure, a series
of slot cuttings with an axial depth of 2.5 mm were machined into
different surface ﬁnishes at different spindle speeds. Poor surfaces
were produced at spindle speeds of 6000 and 7376 rpm because
of chatter, but when the spindle was operated at 8000 rpm,
chatter-free cutting resulted in a better surface. The results of
the machining tests conﬁrm the inﬂuence of the cutting para-
meters such as the spindle speed and the cutting axial depth on
the surface quality, and this is also demonstrated by the stability
lobe diagram. This result also shows that the stability regimes for
machining operations performed on certain workpieces with a
speciﬁc milling cutter can be predicted based on a ﬁnite element
simulation of the dynamic behavior of the machine tool.
5. Conclusions
In this paper, a ﬁnite element modeling technique involving
simulation of linear components with rolling interfaces was
presented. This technique can be applied to predict the machining
stability of a vertical milling machine, and the effectiveness of this
technique was successfully veriﬁed by conducting machining
tests on a prototype. According to the ﬁnite element analysis,
the yawing vibration mode associated with the spindle head was
the dominant factor inﬂuencing the dynamic stiffness and
machining stability of the milling machine, which were governed
by linear guides installed on the feeding stage. The results of the
stability analysis clearly demonstrate the dependence of the
machining stability of the vertical milling machine on the preload
of the linear guide. The guides with a high preload that were
installed in the spindle feeding mechanism are more effective
than the linear guides with low preloads in enhancing the
dynamic stiffness of the system. This further improves the
machining performance of the milling machine for a wider range
of spindle speeds and cutting depths. The experimental results
obtained in this study demonstrate the accuracy of the ﬁnite
element simulation model. The model can be used to optimize the
limit on the machining stability of a milling system by adopting
various design conﬁgurations that determine the geometrical
structure of the linear components.
Acknowledgment
The work was supported by National Science Council in
Taiwan through Project number NSC99-2221-E-167-003, which
is gratefully acknowledged.
References
[1] J. Tlusty, M. Polacek, The stability of machine tools against self-excited
vibrations in machining, Proceedings of the ASME International (1963).
[2] J. Tlusty, Dynamics of high-speed milling, Transactions of the ASME, Journal
of Engineering for Industry 108 (2) (1986) 59–67.
[3] F. Koenisberger, J. Tlusty, Machine Tool Structures—vol. I: Stability Against
Chatter, Pergamon Press, Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1967.
[4] S.A. Tobias, W. Fishwick, The chatter of lathe tools under orthogonal cutting
conditions, Transactions of the ASME, Journal of Engineering for Industry 80
(1958) 1079–1088.
Fig. 8. Machined surface ﬁnish under different spindle speeds (slot cutting
depth¼2.5 mm).
J.-P. Hung et al. / International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture 51 (2011) 731–739738
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議
心得報告
日期： 99 年 12 月 30 日
一、參加會議經過
本研討會『 2010 International Conference on Industrial and mechanical
Engineering』係由 WASET，World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology
所屬之 International scientific community 所主辦。該學會為世界級學術委員會，
出版各領域重要學術期刊，並經常性、定期的在世界各地辦理各項專業領域之
國際性學術活動。本次會議為綜合性議題研討會，學術領域包括：工業資訊系
統、電腦與控制系統、電力能源系統、機器人與微機電系統。
本次會議於新加坡舉行，地點為『River View Hotel Singapore』，議程由 12/18
～12/20。總計三天時間內進行 10 場次、102 篇口頭論文宣讀。第一天於 12/18
日早上 9～10 點進行報到領取會議資料，隨後由大會主席 Ardilc 博士開場之致
計畫編
號
NSC99-2221-E-167-003
計畫名
稱
高速主軸系統之振動特性與聲紋特徵之相關性研究
出國人
員姓名
洪瑞斌
服務機
構及職
稱
國立勤益科技大學
機械系教授
會議
時間
2010 年 12 月 18
日至
2010 年 12 月 20
日
會議地
點
新加坡
會議
名稱
(中文) International Conference on Industrial and Mechanical
Engineering
(英文)工業與機械工程國際研討會
發表論
文題目
(中文)銑床切削穩定性之有限元素分析與實驗驗證
(英文) Finite Element Prediction on the Machining Stability
of Milling Machine with Experimental Verification
二、與會心得
本研討會議題為綜合性工程科學領域，各學者發表研究成果面向甚為廣泛，
因此相關於個人研究領域（電腦輔助設計分析）之部份深度略嫌不足，但亦可
利用此機會瞭解各學者現階段研究重點、研究方法等，而不同領域學者就未來
可能進行之研究或發展趨勢進行心得交換，往往可激盪腦力產生新的思維，對
未來研究之啟發雖不可預知，但應該是有相當助益的。另外，個人感覺較特別
的是，在餐會或休息時間與會人員面對面之交流，除了可以廣泛談論非屬於研
討會議題之事物，包括各地區大學教育、研究之特色外，亦觸及中東地區區域
性文化風俗民情等話題，甚是有趣。而在瞭解不同國家地區在有關學術教育之
差異性後，也可讓我們思索自己未來可能的變化，此種感覺是國內研討會場合
中所無法觸動的。個人深覺此行收穫豐碩，定期性參與國際性學術研討會是有
其必要的。
三、攜回資料名稱及內容
1. 研討會會議論文集彙整出版品（紙本與論文光碟）
Proceedings of World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology,
Volume 72, Dec 2010 ISSN 1307-6892
2. 討會論文發表參加證明。
3. 本篇論文通過審查後亦獲選刊登於國際 EI 等級期刊
J. P. Hung,* Y.L. Lai, H. T. You, 2010 “Finite element prediction on the 
machining stability of miling machine with experimental verification”, World 
Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology. Vol. 72, pp.207-213. (EI)
WASET
Conference Secretariat
www.waset.org
Singapore December 2010 WASET CONFERENCE PAPER
Date : 01/09/2010 03:13:13 IP Adress :140.128.93.159
Name Surname Assoc. Prof. Dr. Jui-Pin Hung
Institution Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chin-Yi University of Technology
Country Taiwan, R.O.C.
Alternative
Email
hungjp@ncut.edu.tw
Paper Title
Finite Element Prediction on the Machining Stability of Milling Machine with
Experimental Verification
Abstract Chatter vibration has been a troublesome problem for a machine tool toward the high
precision and high speed machining. Essentially, the machining performance is
determined by the dynamic characteristics of the machine tool structure and dynamics
of cutting process, which can further be identified in terms of the stability lobe diagram.
Therefore, realization on the machine tool dynamic behavior can help to enhance the
cutting stability. To assess the dynamic characteristics and machining stability of a
vertical milling system under the influence of a linear guide, this study developed a
finite element model integrated the modeling of linear components with the
implementation of contact stiffness at the rolling interface. Both the finite element
simulations and experimental measurements reveal that the linear guide with different
preload greatly affects the vibration behavior and milling stability of the vertical column
spindle head system, which also clearly indicate that the predictions of the machining
stability agree well with the cutting tests. It is believed that the proposed model can be
successfully applied to evaluate the dynamics performance of machine tool systems of
various configurations.
Keywords Machining stability, Vertical milling machine, Linear guide, Contact stiffness
  
This study was aimed at investigating the machining stability 
of a vertical milling machine under the influence of linear guide 
with different preload. For this purpose, a finite element model of 
the column spindle system was constructed with the integration 
of the modeling of linear rolling components. The dynamic 
behavior and cutting stability of the milling machine were 
predicted. Furthermore, the simulation results were validated 
with the experimental measurements performed on a prototype 
machine.  
II. CONSTRUCTION OF VERTICAL MILLING MACHINE 
In order to examine the machining characteristics, a 
simplified vertical milling machine with small-scaled 
dimensions was designed and fabricated, as shown in Fig. 1. 
The vertical column was constructed using carbon steel plates. 
Two guide rails were secured on the front plate of the column at 
a span of 160 mm. The sliding carriage of the spindle head was 
mounted on the column with pairs of linear guides and driven 
with a ball screw. The commercial linear guides (HG series) 
have four ball grooves with a circular arc profile, forming a 
point contact at an angle of 45° [13]. In addition, for enhancing 
their rigidity, the linear guides can be preloaded to different 
levels by setting oversized steel balls within the ball groove, 
and they are generally quantified as light preload (Z0, 0.01C) 
and heavy preload (ZB, 0.11C), where C denotes the dynamic 
load rating (11.38kN). The driven ball screw has a diameter of 
14 mm, a lead pitch of 4 mm, and a basic dynamic load rating C 
of 4.07 kN and is slightly preloaded to a level of 0.06C so as to 
lessen the axial backlash [14]. Further, in order to ensure 
rigidity balance with the ball screw, the standardized ball screw 
support units coded EK12 and EF10 were used at both ends of 
the screw shaft [15]. In addition, a high-frequency spindle unit, 
having a weight of 4.1 kg and a maximum speed of 36000 rpm, 
was installed on the sliding carriage. Fig.1 also shows the 
global coordinate system used in the machine model, where the 
X and Y axes are defined as the two horizontal axes pointing 
toward right and, respectively, and the Z axis is the vertical one 
along the column direction. In addition, a local coordinate 
system was defined at the spindle head for describing the 
vibration mode. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1  Construction of vertical milling machine. 
III. FINITE ELEMENT MODELING 
The key point for accurate modeling a machine tool structure 
is the simulation of the rolling elements within ball grooves of 
the linear components. The rolling interface greatly determines 
whether the simulation results can approach the real 
characteristics of the system in an effective way [12]. Therefore, 
it was adequately simplified and introduced into the finite 
element model of the vertical milling machine. 
A.  Modeling of the rolling interface  
As shown in Fig. 2(a), the linear guide was designed with 
two or four rows of rolling balls, where the ball groove had the 
contact profile of a circular arc, forming a two-point contact 
mode [16]. The ball screw was designed with a Gothic groove, 
forming a four-point contact mode. In general, the contact force 
between a rolling ball and the raceway can be related to the 
local deformation at the contact point by the Hertzian 
expression [17] 
                  23 /
hKQ α= ,                                       (1) 
where Q denotes the contact force and α is the elastic 
deformation at the contact point. Kh represents the Hertz 
constant, which is determined by the contact geometry and 
material properties of the linear components. Details can be 
available in literatures [18, 19]. The normal stiffness at a 
specific preload can then be obtained as 
3/13/22/1
2
3
2
3 QKK
d
dQK hhn === αα
.                         (2) 
As revealed in Eq. (2), the contact stiffness in the normal 
direction depends nonlinearly on the contact force, which is 
essentially determined by the initial preload set on the rolling 
balls.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Finite element modeling of vertical column spindle system. 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 72 2010
208
  
linear guide modulus are 262, 332, and 352Hz respectively. For  
spindle head with high preloaded (ZB) linear guides, the 
corresponding natural frequencies are 310, 407 and 483 Hz, 
respectively. It is noted that linear guide preload has a great 
influence on the vibration frequency of spindle head, with 
differences approximately of 18~37%, when the preloaded was 
adjusted from Z0 to ZB. The result of modal analysis was also 
verified by means of vibration test conducted on the milling 
machine prototype. The vibration testing configuration was 
presented in Fig. 3(a), in which the accelerometer was mounted 
on the spindle tail to measure the vibration signal responding to 
the impact by hammer that was applied on the other side. With 
this manner, the yawing mode of the spindle head about the 
X-axis in the local coordinate system can be measured. Fig. 3(b)  
depict the frequency spectrums corresponding to the yawing 
and pitching vibrations of the spindle head that was mounted on 
the sliding head with low preloaded linear guides. The natural 
frequencies corresponding to the first, second pitching motions 
and yawing vibrations were measured as 255, 335 and 355Hz, 
respectively, which agree well with the finite element modal 
analysis, as listed in Table 1 and 2. Comparisons of the 
vibration measurements and finite element predictions clear 
identified the accuracy of the modeling of the vertical spindle 
column structure, in which the modeling of the rolling 
interfaces exiting within the various linear components played 
an important role.  
The damping ratio required for harmonic analysis was 
further calculated according to the Half-power method. Table 2 
presents the damping ratios of the vertical column spindle 
structure in X and Y directions. It is found that the damping 
characteristics are also affected by the preload of the linear 
guides. A vertical spindle head system installed with high 
preloaded guide modulus behaves a lower damping 
characteristic as compared to that with low preloaded guides.  
The harmonic analysis was then performed with the validated 
finite element model, so as to examine the dynamic response of 
the spindle head when it was subjected to a simulated cutting at 
the spindle tail in frequency ranges of 200~1200Hz. 
D. Prediction of tool point frequency response 
Fig.4 illustrates the frequency response of the spindle tip in 
the X and Y directions, respectively, which also demonstrate 
the influence of the preload amount of linear guide modulus. 
From Fig.4, the lowest dynamic stiffness in X direction was 
calculated as 0.352 and 0.903 N/μm for low and high preloaded 
spindle head, respectively. In addition, the minimum dynamic 
stiffness is found to occur at frequency of the yawing vibration 
of spindle head. A similar frequency response also is found in 
the Y direction (Fig. 4). It can be seen that the adjustment of the 
linear guide preload from low to high leads to an increase in the 
minimum dynamic stiffness from 1.17 to 2.41 N/μm. As 
noticed in the figure, the frequency inducing the minimum 
stiffness is equivalent to the pitching frequency, which is 
associated with the vibration of the spindle head. The results 
obtained from the harmonic analysis again verify that the 
yawing and pitching modes indeed dominate the vibration of 
 
FREQUENCIES OF SPINDLE HEAD 
Finite element predicted natural 
frequency (Hz)     
Vibration mode Low preload  
(Z0) 
High preload 
(ZB) 
Pitching vibration of spindle head, 
accompanied with bending vibration of 
vertical column 
262 310 
Pitching vibration of spindle head 332 407 
Yawing vibration of spindle head 352 483 
 
  
FREQUENCIES AND  DAMPING RATIO OF FUNDAMENTAL 
MODES OF SPINDLE HEAD 
Low preload (Z0) High preload (ZB)  
 
 
Vibration mode 
 
Natural 
frequency,  
(Hz） 
Damping  
ratio,ξ 
Natural 
frequency,  
(Hz） 
Damping
 ratio,ξ
Pitching vibration of 
spindle head, 
accompanied with 
bending vibration of 
vertical column 
255 0.009 310 0.006  
Pitching vibration of 
spindle head 335 0.013 390 0.008  
Yawing vibration of 
spindle head 355 0.008 465 0.005  
 
Fig. 4 The frequency response of the spindle tip in the X and Y 
directions, respectively. 
TABLE II  EXPERIMENTAL MEASURED VIBRATION 
TABLE I FINITE ELEMENT PREDICTED NATURAL 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 72 2010
210
  
recorded using a unidirectional microphone and accelerometer 
during the machining process.  
Beside, for a reliable reference without chatter, an initial free 
chattering cutting depth was chosen for every specified spindle 
speed according to the predicted stability lobe diagram.  
The experimental results are compared with the predicted 
stability lobes, as shown in Fig. 7.  In the figure, each cutting 
with chatter or no chatter is located on the diagram with solid 
circle or open circle, respectively.  For example, for a cutting of 
axial depth of 2mm, chattering was detected under respectively 
spindle speeds of 4000 or 5400 or 7376 rpm, but no chatter 
occurred when the spindle speed was raised to 8000rpm. At 
spindle speed of 4000rpm, unstable cutting was observed when 
cutting depth was set at 2mm, but no chatter occurred when the 
cutting depth was adjusted to 1 mm. The identification of the 
chatter was observed and verified from the vibration spectrum 
presented in Fig. 8. It is obvious that under the same cutting 
depth, the vibration amplitude induced at spindle speed of 4000 
rpm appeared to be greater than that induced at speed of 
8000rpm. These phenomena again address fact that the 
influence of the spindle speed on the surface quality can be 
expected from the stability lobe diagram. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Vibration spectrums measured in machining tests. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
This study was aimed to investigate the machining stability 
of a vertical milling machine through finite element prediction 
and machining tests. The influence of the preload of a linear 
rolling guide on the machining performance was also analyzed. 
As was expected, current results demonstrate that the linear 
guide preload dominates the vibration behavior associated with 
a spindle head, and hence greatly affect the cutting parameters 
to be at chatter or free chatter machining stability. A high 
preloaded guide modulus installed in the spindle feeding 
mechanism can effectively enhance the machining performance. 
As a conclusion, this study has verified that the proposed finite 
element model can be used to quantify the dynamics 
characteristics and machining stability of machine tool systems 
of various configurations. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The work was supported by National Science Council in 
Taiwan through project number NSC99-2221-E-167-003, 
which is gratefully acknowledged. 
REFERENCES   
[1] Yoshimi Ito, Modular design for machine tool, McGraw Hill Company,  
2008. 
[2] Y. Seo, D. P. Hong, I. Kim, T. Kim, D. Sheen, G. B. Lee, Structure   
modeling of machine tools and internet-based implementation, 
Proceedings of the 2005 Winter Simulation Conference, December 2005, 
Orlando, Florida, USA.  
[3] C. F. Beards, Damping in structural joints, The Shock and Vibration 
Digest, 24(7) (1992) 3- 7. 
[4] M. Yoshihara, Computer-aided design improvement of machine tool 
states Incorporating joint dynamics data, Annals of the CIRP. 28(1) (1979) 
241–246. 
[5] Y.M. Huang, W.P. Fu, L.X. Dong, Research on the normal dynamic 
characteristic parameters of joint surface, Journal of Mechanical 
Engineering 29 (3) (1993) 74–77. 
[6] Y. Lin, W. Chen, A method of identifying interface characteristic for 
machine tools design, Journal of Sound and Vibration 255(3) (2002) 481- 
487. 
[7] G. P. Zhang , Y. M. Huang, W. H. Shi, W.P. Fu, Predicting dynamic 
behaviors of a whole machine tool structure based on computer-aided 
Chatter 
Spindle 
speed 4000rpm cutting depth 2mm 
 
No chatter 
Spindle 
speed 8000rpm cutting depth 2mm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability lobes diagram for linear guide (Z0)
0
2
4
6
8
2000 4000 6000 8000 10000
Spindle speed, (rpm)
A
xi
al
 c
ut
tin
g 
de
pt
h,
 (m
m
) No chatter
Chatter
 
 
 
Fig. 7  Predicted stability lobe compared with experimental cutting 
tests. 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 72 2010
212
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高速主軸系統之振動特性與聲紋特徵之相關性研究
計畫主持人: 洪瑞斌
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-167-003- 學門領域: 結構與振動
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫衍生成果已申請並獲得中華民國新型專利一件，其他相關作品參與國外
國際發明展 2011 年日內瓦獲得銀牌獎，2011 年美國匹茲堡獲得金牌獎。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
