 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 █ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
光熱液珠致動器 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC97-2221-E-002-052 
執行期間： 97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 10 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人： 陳建彰 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 碩士生 謝豪懷、李至弘 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位： 國立台灣大學應用力學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  98   年  11   月   12   日 
附件一 
 4
the droplet, h(x) is the droplet profile, and b is the slip length. The first term on the 
right-hand side of Eq. (1) is the driving force for droplet migration while the second term 
is the retarding force which drags the droplets.  
 
Based upon this model, we can further expand this model to the case of droplet 
motion on confined microstripes. Figure 2 illustrates the symbol definition for this 
derivation. A droplet is sitting on a less hydrophobic surface. Assumed that droplet height 
profile is fixed in region II and long droplet (length of region II >> length of region I and 
region III), a approximate analytic equation can be derived with only contact angle 
hysteretic retarded force considered in region I and II [4], 
 
    c
c
ara
r hL
U 

  
coscos6cos612
35
1
          (2) 
 
where  is the shear stress on the top of liquid stream due to thermal gradient, and hc is 
the maximum height. This equation resembles the droplet motion equation on 
homogeneous surface. The first term on the right hand side is the driving force generated 
by thermal gradient, and second term is the contact angle hysteretic force. When driving 
force overcomes the contact angle hysteretic force, droplet migrates. 
 
In order to use Eq. (2) to fit the experimental data, we require unreasonable large 
contact angle hysteresis. This indicates this approximate equation is over-simplified for 
the droplet size tested; nevertheless, it successfully and clearly presents the physical 
meanings of thermocapillary droplet motion and some counterintuitive observed 
phenomena [4]. Elongated droplet size and application of average temperature for the 
droplet could be the problematic assumptions. 
 
Figure 3 is the experimental image for droplet migration over a designed 
hydrophobic patch. The droplet was driven in microstripe with width of 5 mm and patch 
is 40m2. The upper photo was taken right before and after the droplet overcomes the 
hydrophobic defect. The interval between these two photos were taken is 0.2 sec. For the 
same condition, droplet will be completely stopped if the microstripe width reduces to 3 
mm. 
 
Figure 4 shows the droplet motion in a confined channel under the thermal gradient 
of 5.75 K/cm. The thermal gradient is high enough to overcome the defect pinning force. 
The channel width is about 2mm. Droplet moves from the hot region to the cold region. 
 
 
 
 6
 
 
Figure 3 Droplet pinning by a designed hydrophobic defect. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 Droplet motion in a confined channel under the thermal gradient of 
5.75 K/cm. The channel width is about 2mm. Droplet moves from the hot region to 
the cold region. 
 
Droplet motion direction 
Droplet pinned
Droplet overcomes defect 
Hydrophobic defect 
te
st
7 
d
T/
d
x=
5.
75
 8
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                    2009   年  4  月  20  日 
報告人姓名  
陳建彰 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
台大應用力學研究所 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
April 12-19, 2009 
 
美國舊金山  
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 97-2221-E-002-052 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2009 材料研究學會 – 春季會議 
 (英文) 2009 Material Research Society – Spring Meeting 
發表 
論文 
題目 
1. Characterization of room-temperature deposited p-type 
transparent conducting Ca-doped CuAlO thin films, paper PP5.1,
與台大光電所陳奕君教授及其光電所學生、大同大學材料系楊木榮教
授、紡織所蔡曉寬先生共同發表、 
2. Characterization of low-temperature laser annealed sol-gel ITO 
thin films, paper PP5.3,與台大光電所陳奕君教授及其光電所學
生、台大機械系楊燿洲教授、工研院顯示中心李裕正經理及林國棟先
生 共同發表。 
3. Transient dielectric breakdown stage of on-plastic a-Si:H thin 
film transistors by electromechanical stresses, paper A.20.2,
與台大光電所陳奕君教授及其光電所學生、工研院顯示中心黃俊傑博
士及陳永培先生 共同發表 
附件三 
附件三
 
 10
  
發表之期刊及會議論文 
期刊論文： 
1. “Electromechanical Stability of Flexible Nanocrystalline Silicon Thin Film Transistors,” 
I-Chung Chiu, Jung-Jie, Huang, Yung-Pei Chen, I-Chun Cheng, Jian Z. Chen, Min-Hung Lee, 
submitted to IEEE Electron Device Letters. 
2. “The electromechanical characteristics of ZnO grown on polyethylene terephthalate 
substrates,” Hao-Huai Shieh, I-Chun Cheng, Jian Z. Chen, Chun-Ching Hsiao, Pei-Chun Lin, 
Yong-Hui Yeh, submitted to Journal of the Electrochemical Society. 
 
研討會論文： 
1. Characterization of room-temperature deposited p-type transparent conducting Ca-doped 
CuAlO thin films, paper PP5.1,2009 MRS spring meeting,與台大光電所陳奕君教授及其光
電所學生、大同大學材料系楊木榮教授、紡織所蔡曉寬先生共同發表。 
2. Characterization of low-temperature laser annealed sol-gel ITO thin films, paper PP5.3, 2009 
MRS spring meeting,與台大光電所陳奕君教授及其光電所學生、台大機械系楊燿洲教
授、工研院顯示中心李裕正經理及林國棟先生 共同發表。 
3. Transient dielectric breakdown stage of on-plastic a-Si:H thin film transistors by 
electromechanical stresses, paper A.20.2, 2009 MRS spring meeting, 與台大光電所陳奕君
教授及其光電所學生、工研院顯示中心黃俊傑博士及陳永培先生 共同發表。 
附件四 
分以LiquoVISTA的發展最為成熟。 
 
顯示器、半導體及光電展 
至於展覽方面，有許多很有趣的展出。下面是幾個大型液晶電視的照片。圖二為大面積多點
觸控式螢幕；圖三為一個軟硬體配合下的多功能觸控式螢幕。可以做為白板、地圖、討論板、
同時具有電腦的功能。圖四為超薄型的液晶電視，包括全世界最薄(7.9mm厚)的40吋液晶電視。 
 
 
圖一：Korea International Exhibition (Korea International Exhibition Center) 
 
圖二、大面積多點觸控式螢幕。 
 
   
圖三：多功能大面積觸控式螢幕。左圖：白板功能。右圖：展示面板。 
 
