the product flow.   Unfortunately, the solution may 
not be feasible or optimal for many facility design 
problems.  The Functional, Cellular and Flowline 
layouts are other traditional facility layouts that 
have been discussed in the literature and implemented 
in industry. The majority of facility layout projects 
focus on optimizing one of these traditional layouts 
for a multi-product facility.  Further, the analysis 
is usually based only on the material handling costs 
and volumes that are captured in a travel chart.  Our 
goal is to eliminate the crossing of product flows by 
using duplicate machines.  To achieve this, we must 
specify the number of duplications of each machine 
and the product flow routings in the hybrid layout. 
 
In our project, we successfully develop a detailed 
cost model that includes the important trade-offs 
between the costs that influence the design of a 
facility layout.  These costs include WIP, material 
handling, machine setup, and processing.  By using 
the actual product routings instead of the travel 
chart for a facility, we are developing methods to 
construct the facility layout as a network of 
layout ’modules’.  Each module has the material 
flow pattern of one of the three traditional layouts.  
Based on the conception of module selection, a new 
set of procedures are proposed to approximate the 
optimal layout design.  Deviations from the original 
objectives, we conclude the conception of selection 
on traditional modules and realize this conception is 
also interesting in different fields.   Therefore, we 
study the research to actual industrial settings and 
integrate the research into course work in our 
courses at National Chiao Tung University. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Planar layout, Planar Graph, Multi-graph, Block 
Facility Planning, Flow Network, Production Flows 
 
2 
Wainwright \etal (1993).  Depending on the particular layout configuration, the costs of equipment, 
machine setup, material handling, WIP, and space vary.  Table 1 shows the impact of the choice of 
layout configuration on some of the costs of operating a facility.  
 
Table 1. Costs for Layout Evaluation 
 
Due to their complex nature, it may be necessary to find surrogates for some of these costs.  
For example, the actual machine utilization depends on the particular set of processed jobs and the 
job schedule.  Since the layout processes different job sets during different production periods, we 
need to consider types of average utilization measures.  The elements of costs for the performance 
evaluation of facility layouts and some surrogate measures are listed in Table 2. 
4 
 
Step 2. By analyzing the jobs strings, find the largest flow between machine types of the 
functional modules.  Temporally add one machine of each type to some cellular 
module.  In a greedy way, move the job strings with low variance to balance the 
proportion of flow between these two identified machine types of the new cellular 
module.  If the cost decreases, make the change permanent. Increase the number of 
machines until no further cost reductions are possible.  
 
Step 3. By analyzing the jobs strings, find the largest flow between machine types of the 
functional and cellular modules.  Temporally add one machine of each type to some 
flowline module.  In a greedy way, move the job strings with low variance to balance 
the proportion of flow between these two identified machine types of the new flowline 
module.  If the cost decreases, make the change permanent. Increase the number of 
machines until no further cost reductions are possible. 
 
Step 4. Repeat for every other pair of machines.  Note that procedures starting with lowest 
traveling cost are similar.  We identify some machines of same type with highest WIP 
cost and build cellular or functional modules for them to greedily reduce the WIP cost 
and total cost 
 
 
5. Significant Results  
A comprehensive integer linear programming model has been developed.  In this model, the 
characteristics of three traditional layouts are formulated as a part of constraints.  This model has 
elements of several NP-Complete problems such as Node Clustering, Graph Partitioning, Maximum 
Clique, Graph Isomorphism, and Multiple Sequence Alignment.  The following are the main 
contributions of the integer programming model. 
 
• The model has 12 types of parameters and 15 types of constraints. 
• The model has been simplified to have only two sets of main variable types, x (facility 
allocation) and y (job-module assignment). 
• The conditions of bypass and backflow are successfully described in the model. 
• The service rates for the queuing systems associated with machine groups are approximated 
by phase-type distributions (Hyper-Exponential distribution). 
• Different types of jobs are approximated by a new type of job.  Then, the evaluation of 
WIP costs, are calculated by using a M/PH/s queuing system. 
• Material handling costs, machine setup costs and job processing costs are also included. 
 
In order to solve this integer programming model, we decomposed the problem into two main 
parts: the machine allocation problem and job assignment problem.  We have the following main 
contributions for solving the integer programming model: 
6 
This hybrid module layout is a more integrated and suitable method for facility design with the 
following values: 
• A new technique is developed that can be used in other problems as a way to approximate 
flows. 
• The proof of NP-Completeness shows that finding the optimal solution in polynomial time 
is most unlikely.  This justifies the use of heuristic approaches and establishes the 
importance of finding tight bounds for the heuristic procedures.   
• Our methodology provides the ability to more accurately evaluate the costs in a production 
facility and to design more robust and cost effective layouts. 
• Reductions in part traveling cost are 14%, 33% and 67% for three pilot dies. Reductions in 
time to complete manufacturing the pilot dies are 33 % , 35%, and 40%. 
 
7. Self-evaluation  
In this project, we tried to develop new layout design models with facility setup costs embedded. 
Issues of flow route duplication/elimination rise.  The restructuring problems of layouts are highly 
related to the advanced integer modeling problems and the network problems in graph theory.  We 
figured out that local graduate students had less background and necessary knowledge in the fields 
of integer programming and graph theory to implement the project.  
 
Due to the Insufficient time on project variation and the late recruiting of research fellow, we are 
not able to explore our problem in the field of graph theory any deeper.  However, a good 
conception of module selection is captured from the detailed integer cost model. 
 
We are looking for the chance to improve the effectiveness of our current solution methods. 
Also, the theoretical bound on queueing approximation is not tight.  We may look for different 
ways to reconstruct and improve the bound.  Finally, we are studying the interpretation of our 
heuristic in the field of graph theory.  This may be able to provide us a different view on the 
module selection and the effective layout design.  
二、參考文獻 
Apple, J. M. 1963. Plant Layout and Material Handling. 2nd ed., Ronal Press, New York.  
Balakrishnan, J., and C. H. Cheng. 1998. Dynamic Layout Algorithms: A State of the Art Survey. 
OMEGA 26, 507−521. 
Boswell, S. G. 1992. TESSA—A New Greedy Heuristic for Facilities Layout Planning. 
International Journal of Production Research 30, 1957−1968. 
Buffa, E. S., G. C. Armour, and T. E. Vollmann. 1964. Allocating Facilities with CRAFT. Harvard 
Business Review 42, 136−158.  
Foulds, L. R. 1983. Techniques for facilities layout: Deciding which pair of activities should be 
adjacent. Management Science 29, 1414−1426.  
Foulds, L. R., and D. F. Robinson. 1978. Graph theoretic Heuristics for that Plant Layout Problem. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 設施佈置中的模組化設計與高效率流動問題(I)
計畫主持人: 洪暉智
計畫編號: 100-2218-E-009-020- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 0 50% 
複雜度分析與整
數 規 劃 完 整 訓
練，並協助其他論
文模型建構。 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
We have imbedded the required knowledge and trainings in our graduate 
courses and successively attracted attentions and interests in National 
Chiao Tung University.  These courses are: 
‧ Course #5235:  Queueing Theory with Applications. 
‧ Course #5504:  Theory and Application of Scheduling. 
‧ Course #DOM1046: Operations Research (Integer Programming) 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
