infrastructure: auto-calculating of bio marker in 
fluorescence microscope images and auto contouring for 
radio therapy target volume and dos distribution. 
Finally, the image processing results and clinical 
findings would be encoded as standard DICOM Structured 
Report(SR). Basing on the standard DICOM SR findings, 
Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) would be 
constructed in the personal atlas platform. The 
personal clinical atlas would be integrated with 
standard clinical document sharing and management 
infrastructure would be constructed in our other sub-
projects. Basing the integration, a personal 
healthcare platform with rich full clinical 
information and functionalities would be generated for 
treatment evaluation and for healthcare management. 
 
    
Figure 1.  Evidence Document (ED) integration profile defined in IHE radiology 
technical framework. 
 
In figure 1, image post processing system play the role as Evidence Creator in the IHE 
integration profile.  Following the integration profile, Evidence Creator will generate 
image post processing results as Evidence Documents the may be stored to Image 
Manager/Archive (PACS server). And Image Display(Viewer) may query and retrieve 
the Evidence Documents for presenting the result on image viewing systems. 
However, the integration profile is not well accepted by PACS and image post 
processing developers. And users (radiologists) usually do not want the standard 
integration solution. The major reasons of the integration solution is not accepted by 
venders and users are: 
 Following the profile, image post reocessing results (Evidence Documents) sould 
be DICOM formatted. However, DICOM standard have sophisicate 
specifications to define the processing results. In real cases, the DICOM 
formatted results generated in one systems may not be properly handled by 
another systems. Consequently, the Evidence Documents by Evidence Creator 
may not be presented in Image Display! 
 Second,  following the profile, we might have many different purpose image 
post processing systems in PACS. This would be a great overhead for users 
(rediologists) to handle a bounce of systems to accomplish their daily image 
examization tasks.  
  
Figure 2. Both Photo and CT images acquired from the project of Homo sapiens 
dissecatus.  
 
As presented in figure 2, the anatomic descriptions and reference points have been 
marked in the project of Homo sapiens dissecatus. Consequently, all the detail 
anatomic descriptions from head to feet can be presented on the Human atlas. In this 
study, we have developed feature extraction and optical character recognition 
processes. Consequently, all the reference points and anatomic descriptions can be 
extracted from the Human atlas. With the realignment of marked photo images with 
CT and MR images, the reference points can also be identified on the CT and MR 
images. Using the RIA program developed in the study, the realignment images and 
marked resulted can been shown on browser, figure 3.  
 
separate bones from the set of image, the results can be good reference point for 
finding other tissues in medical images. In this study, we developed a 3D based 
segmentation method that was able to isolate bone regions in a whole body bone CT 
images. In this method, we designed a new data structure called bone graph for 
helping characterize the human bone anatomy and extract useful morphological 
information. Finally, the 3D model of each bone region was rendered to evaluate the 
segmentation result.  
 
 
Figure 4. 3D whole body bone reconstruction from a set CT images.  
 
In figure 4, the image was converted into binary image according to a threshold value 
T. And some additional methods (continue area, the coordinates of its gravity center, 
and the smallest rectangle containing this region) were applied for separate noise and 
bone region. No matter how hard we adjust our parameters in the processes. Some 
soft tissue organs, such as kidney and bladder, are still in the result. For further 
separate different parts of bone and the high radiation absorption soft tissues, four 
reference points , neck,  pelvis upper, hip joint, pelvis lower were defined according 
the parameters calculated above. And a set of bone graphics were construct for further 
defining sub-components of bone. Using the morphological bone graphic model, the 
bone in different body parts can be further discriminated.    
would be the proper means for recognizing different organs and tumor in separate 
potion of body. Basing our framework, we can set a region on a series of medical 
images, figure 7. And the medical images can be registried with the atlas in our 
framework. Consequently, anatomic reference points can be set as initial condition for 
finding organs in the region.     
 
 
Figure 6. A cube region, blue rectangles, were set in a series of CT image for further 
image processing.  
 
   
References 
1. IHE radiology technical framework evidence document profile. Available at: 
http://www.ihe.net/Technical_Framework/index.cfm#radiology 
2. A Web-based Solution for Viewing Large Size Microscopic Images. Chung-Yueh 
Lien, Hsu-Chih Teng, Deng-Ji Chen, Woei-Chyn Chu, Chia-Hung Hsiao* Journal 
of Digital Imaging. Journal of Digital Imaging. 2008.6 V22.3.  
3. Use of a Rich Internet Application Solution to Present Medical Images. 
Chia-Hung Hsiao, Cheng-Ying Shiau, Yu-Ming Liu,Max Min Chao, Chung-Yueh 
Lien, Chi-Hsien Chen, Sang-Hue Yen,  Shih-Tsang Tang,  Journal of Digital 
Imaging. Journal of Digital Imaging. 2010/12 
4. Homo sapiens dissecatus.  Available at http://www.drjastrow.de/HSDprofE.html 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳祺賢 計畫編號：99-2221-E-371-001- 
計畫名稱：建構以病人為中心之癌症健康照護資訊架構--子計畫二:結合 RIA 與影像處理技術建構從
巨觀到微觀之臨床影像圖譜 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 35% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
