  1
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
台灣營建業專案先期規劃現況分析 
Study of Preproject Planning Practice 
for the Construction Industry in Taiwan 
 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-151-041- 
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人： 王裕仁 高雄應用科技大學土木工程與防災研究所 助理教授 
計畫參與人員：岳東穎 高雄應用科技大學土木工程與防災研究所 研究生 
              詹勳錫 高雄應用科技大學土木工程與防災研究所 研究生 
 
一、中文摘要 
    在台灣，營建工程的相關研究主要都注
重在專案執行階段上，較少有相關研究專門
討論專案生命週期先期階段的規劃。然而，
根據國內文獻及實務界專家意見，皆認為專
案先期規劃階段有相當程度的重要性。目前
國內業界對於專案先期計畫階段並未發展
出一套評估指標，因此本研究藉由導入美國
營建工業研究院發展之建築專案定義評析
指標(Project Definition Rating Index)來協助
台灣建築專案先期計畫階段之評估，進而提
升專案績效。 
    爲瞭解台灣營建業對建築專案先期計
畫階段之發展現況，本研究引用國外已實行
多年的研究方法，擬定適用於專案先期計畫
階段之定義評析指標，於台灣地區總計訪談
50 組專案資料，針對營建業規劃設計階段
主管人員進行專家訪談，蒐集校舍、科技廠
房、郵局、寺廟、警察局、透天及集合住宅
等專案類型。研究結果顯示，PDRI 權重分
數大於 200 分(範圍定義較差)之專案，相較
小於 200 分(範圍定義較佳)專案之成本有明
顯增加，而時程也有延遲的情形，且結果達
顯著。根據本研究所蒐集資料，擬定出營建
業規劃設計人員使用 PDRI 指標執行專案先
期計畫階段管控評估，找出影響專案績效之
關鍵指標，可作為規劃設計人員於專案先期
計畫階段，評估專案範圍定義之參考。 
 
關鍵詞：專案定義評析指標、先期計畫、工
程範圍定義、專案績效 
 
Abstract 
In Taiwan, most of the construction 
related researches focus on the project 
execution stage while very few discuss about 
the planning at the early stage of the project 
life cycle. Nevertheless, literature and industry 
practitioners have indicated the importance of 
early planning to project success. Until now, 
the construction industry in Taiwan still lacks 
a standard approach to help with the early 
  3
三、與本研究計畫相關之研究文獻 
 
3.1 先期計畫 
    Gibson and Hamilton(1994)指出專案範
圍定義的發展是先期計畫階段中的一個重
要程序，專案範圍定義的主要工作是定義專
案將要執行的內容、決定執行專案的方法與
分析執行專案的風險。而專案細部設計、營
建施工與專案起始(start-up)階段之成功高度
仰賴範圍定義階段的努力。Gibson and 
Hamilton(1996)評估專案先期計畫階段的重
要性以及其對於專案成功的影響，此研究調
查 53 個營建專案，將其投入先期規劃的程
度分為三級，並且比較其成本與進度績效，
研究結果顯示專案執行前的先期計畫是專
案成功的關鍵，透過良好專案先期計畫可降
低專案的風險，並可大幅縮減執行專案所需
成本與工期。CII(1995)指出業界人士認為相
較於專案生命週期後續的施工階段，在早期
階段所付出的努力對計畫的執行績效成果
有較大的影響力；相反的，在專案生命週期
後期(施工與營運時期)所做的決定，對專案
成果的影響力較小，而需付出的成本代價卻
相對比較高。 
    美國營建工業研究院(1989)的研究小組
將專案先期計畫定義為「發展足夠的策略以
期能使業主發現潛在風險，並決定投入的資
源，以將專案成功機會最大化的過程」。專
案先期計畫(preproject planning)其他別名如
前期規劃(front-end planning)、可行性分析
(feasibility analysis) 、 規 劃 / 計 畫 設 計
(programming/schematic design)和概念性規
劃(conceptual planning)。 
 
 
3.2 工程範圍定義 
依專案管理研究院(PMI)定義，專案範
圍定義是在專案生命週期早期階段，將專案
主要完成工作切割分解成更易於管理的部
份，以提高更好的專案管理(PMI, 2000)。
Gibson et al.(1993)專案範圍定義指標目的
是將專案定義及施工前準備的過程，這是專
案先期計畫中的關鍵部分。此過程中，將確
認專案相關資訊，如專案工程需求、必要設
備和材料、環保議題以及施工方法或程序
等，並將這些資訊彙整成一份專案定義文
件。此文件包括為達成專案目與專案執行階
段所需連續且系統化的策略。 
Smith and Tucker (1983)工程範圍定義
考量欠佳或不完整將對工程執行成效有負
面影響，且被認為是專案計畫中相當嚴重的
問 題 。 美 國 商 業 圓 桌 會 議 (Business 
Roundtable)在 1982 年的營建業成本績效專
案報告(A-6)中指出，工程專案成本超支的
兩個主要原因為：估價階段工程範圍定義欠
佳及專案工程範圍失控。O’Connor and 
Vikroy(1986)工程範圍定義不佳可能造成合
約變更，將影響施工節奏、需要重新施工、
增加工期、降低生產力並降低工作情緒，最
後導致工程的費用超支。Gibson and Dumont 
(1996)專案先期計畫階段所花費的心力與專
案工程定義文件的品質，將對專案生命週期
後續的細部設計、施工以及營運使用之成功
有很大影響。 
Pena et al.(1987)認為一般建築專案執
行過程包含：規劃、概念設計、設計發展、
施工文件製作、投標及施工等過程。
Cherry(1999)指出建築專案規劃過程會提供
  5
 
圖 1：建築專案定義評析指標項目大綱 
資料來源:王裕仁(2008) 
對於 PDRI 指標權重之定義，並不是每
個定義項目對專案績效成果的潛在影響力
都相同，因此各項目必須被指定相對的權
重。其中較大權重分配給對專案績效有較大
影響的項目，也就是這項指標定義不完整對
專案績效有較大的負面影響。專案小組總共
招開七次工作會議來決定這些項目權重，共
有 69 位專業人士參與專案計畫會議，其中
包括 30 位工程師、31 位建築師和 8 位專業
人 士 。 建 築 專 案 定 義 評 析 指 標
(PDRI–Buildings)的工程定義項目權重是
根據 35 位業主和承包商所提供資料分析而
得(CII, 1999)。 
為 驗 證 建 築 專 案 定 義 評 析 指 標
(PDRI–Buildings)的可行性，研究人員選取
30 個建築專案(總造價金額約為 9 億美元)
來做分析研究。藉由評估專案範圍定義的評
分，並與專案執行成果(成本與時程績效)作
比較分析，結果顯示專案定義評析指標
(PDRI)權重分數低於 200 分(定義較完整)的
專案，執行成果不管是成本績效、時程績效
以及合約變更金額比例都比專案定義評分
高於 200 分(定義較不完整)的專案優良許
多。總體而言，建築專案定義評析指標
(PDRI–Buildings)工具能幫助專案團隊評
估工作範圍定義，並列出工程定義文件中的
重要項目。專案定義評析指標(PDRI)可以幫
助專案的參與人員很快地分析評估工程定
義文件，並找出可能影響專案成果的風險因
子(CII, 1999; Cho, 2000)。 
 
四、研究方法 
 
4.1 調查內容 
    本研究主要採用的調查工具為專家訪
談，並輔以問卷調查及電話訪談說明，以問
卷來蒐集專案先期工程定義程度及工程績
效之相關資料。問卷囊括受訪者個人基本資
料、公司基本資料、專案基本資料(專案地
點、專案類型、專案工程預算和計畫時程)
及利用無權重專案定義評析指標(PDRI)對
於先期計畫階段專案定義評估等的相關資
料。利用專家訪談方法，協助受訪者填寫問
卷，若有資料蒐集不足情況，將輔以電話訪
談說明以利資料完整蒐集。問卷訪談過程
中，受訪者必需針對特定專案，分析其在細
部設計開始前的工程考量範圍，據此來填寫
專案範圍定義評估表。針對 PDRI 指標衡量
  7
4.5 專案績效指標 
本研究根據 Gibson(2002)研究計劃
「 Scope Definition and Project Risk 
Analysis」中建議之專案成本與時程績效公
式，以作為量測本研究專案成本及時程績
效，其公式如下： 
%100*
預期專案金額
預期專案金額 實際專案金額成本績效 −=
            ……(1) 
 
%100*
預期專案工期
預期專案工期 實際專案工期時程績效 −=
            ……(2) 
    本研究訪談過程中，要求受訪者提供專
案預計成本及工期以與完工後實際成本費
用及工期。將調查之專案資料轉換為專案完
工後成本和時程績效，以作為後續專案績效
指標之分析探討。 
4.6 獨立樣本 t 檢定 
t 檢定目的是評估兩組樣本平均數的相
異性。本研究以獨立樣本 t 檢定探討建築專
案 PDRI 權重分數(以 200 分為分界)與專案
變更設計對成本及時程績效是否存在顯著
差異，如表 4 所示。 
表4. PDRI權重分數與變更設計之成本及時
程績效差異性分析表 
構面 
PDRI 分數 
(樣本數) 
平均數 差距 t 值 
 > 200(27) 5.08% 
成本績效 
≦200(23) -3.08% 
8.16% -4.264**
> 200(27) 8.47% 
時程績效 
≦200(23) -1.89% 
10.36% -3.539**
構面 
變更設計 
(樣本數) 
平均數 差距 t 值 
無變更(9) -5.72% 
成本績效 
有變更(41) 2.88% 
8.60% -3.813**
無變更(9) -5.31% 
時程績效 
有變更(41) 5.68% 
10.99% -4.300**
 
(1)PDRI 分數與專案績效之差異性分析 
由表 4 比較結果發現，PDRI 權重分數
在 成 本 績 效 結 果 中 ， 「 成 本 績 效 」
(t=-4.264** ， p<0.01) 、 「 時 程 績 效 」
(-3.539**，p<0.01)皆達顯著差異，根據本研
究分析結果，PDRI 權重分數>200 分之專
案，專案完工之成本金額較預計金額平均增
加 5.08％、工期進度平均增加 8.47％；而
PDRI 權重分數≦200 分之專案，專案完工
之金額較預計金額平均減少 3.08％、工期較
預計進度平均縮短 1.89％。另外，比較 PDRI
權重分數>200 分與≦200 分之專案績效之
平均數，其專案成本績效高達 8.16％差距；
時程績效高達 10.36％差距，結果皆達顯著
差異。 
 
(2)變更設計與專案績效之差異性分析 
由表 4 比較結果發現，變更設計在成本
績效結果中，「成本績效」 (t=-3.813**，
p<0.01)、「時程績效」(t=-4.300**，p<0.01)
皆達顯著差異，根據本研究分析結果，無變
更設計之專案，專案完工之金額較預計金額
平均減少 5.72％、工期較預計進度平均縮短
5.31％；有變更設計之專案，專案完工之成
本金額較預計金額平均增加 2.88％、工期較
預計進度平均增加 5.68％。另外，比較有變
更設計與無變更設計之專案，其專案成本績
效高達 8.60％差距，時程績效高達 10.99％
差距，結果皆達顯著差異。 
 9 
 
 
參考文獻 
1. 王裕仁(2008)，建築及工業專案之先期計
畫。高雄工程實務技術研習會，A-4。 
2. 邱皓政(2005)，量化研究法-研究設計與
資料處理(SPSS中文視窗版操作實務詳
析)。台北：雙葉書廊有限公司。 
3. 許家豪(2004)，營建專案執行階段之績效
評估研究-驗證PDRI模式之可行性。國立
雲林科技大學營建工程系碩士班，碩士
論文。 
4. 岳東穎(2009)，台灣建築專案之執行現況
與分析，國立高雄應用科技大學土木工
程與防災科技研究所碩士班，碩士論文。 
5. Broaddus, J. A. (1995). “Managing Inputs 
to Design for Project Success: Participant 
Handbook – CII Education Module 
EM-9. ”Austin, Texas: Construction 
Industry Institute, The University of Texas 
at Austin. 
6. Cherry, E. (1999). “Programming for 
Design: From Theory to Practice.” New 
York, New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc 
7. Cho, C. S., Furman, J. C., and Gibson, G. 
E. (1999). Development of the Project 
Definition Rating Index (PDRI) for 
Building Projects, A report to the 
Construction Industry Institute, The 
University of Texas at Austin, Research 
Report 11-155. 
8. Cho, C. S. (2000). Development of the 
Project Definition Rating Index (PDRI) for 
Building Projects, University of Texas at 
Austin, Austin, Ph.D. Thesis. 
9. Dumont, P., Gibson, G. E. and Fish, J. 
(1997). “Scope Management Using the 
Project Definition Rating Index (PDRI).” 
ASCE Journal of Management in 
Engineering, 13(5), 54-60. 
10. Hamilton, M. R. (1994). The Relationship 
between Pre-Project Planning Effort and 
Success for Capital Construction Projects, 
University of Texas at Austin, Austin, 
TX ,Ph. D. Thesis. 
11. Gibson, G. E. and Hamilton, M. R. (1994). 
Analysis of Pre-Project Planning Effort 
and Success Variables for Capital Facility 
Projects, A report to the Construction 
Industry Institute, Source Document 105, 
Austin, TX. 
12. Gibson, G. E., Kaczmarowski, J. and Lore, 
H. (1995). Pre-Project Planning Process for 
Capital Facilities, ASCE J. Construction 
Engineering and Management, 121(3), 
312-318. 
13. Gibson, G. E. and Dumont, P.R. (1996). 
Project Definition Rating Index (PDRI), A 
report to the Construction Industry 
Institute, Research Report 113(11), Austin, 
TX. 
14. Gibson, G. E., Liao, S., Broaddus, J., and 
Bruns, T., (1997). The university of texas 
system capital project performance, 1990 – 
1995. OFPC Paper 97(1). Office of 
Facilities Planning and Construction, The 
University of Texas System, Austin, TX 
15. Merrow, E. W., Philips, K. E. and Myers, 
C. W. (1981). “Understanding Cost 
Growth and Performance Shortfalls in 
Pioneer Process Plants.” R-2569-DOE, 
Santa Monica, California: RAND 
Corporation. 
16. O’Connor, J. T. and Vickroy, C. G. (1986). 
“Control of Construction Project Scope – 
Source Document 6.” Austin, Texas: 
Construction Industry Institute, The 
University of Texas at Austin. 
17. Pena, W., Parshall, S. and Kelly, K. 
(1987). “Problem Seeking – An 
Architectural Programming Primer.” 
Washington, D.C. AIA Press. 
18. Smith, M. A. and Tucker, R. L. (1983). 
“An Assessment of the Potential Problems 
Occurring in the Engineering Phase of an 
Industrial Projec.” A Report to Texaco, 
Inc., The University of Texas at Austin. 
19. The Business Roundtable (1982). “Modern 
Management Systems.” Report A-6 
20. Wang, Y.R. (2002). “Applying the PDRI in 
Project Risk Management. ” University of 
Texas at Austin, Austin, TX , Ph.D. thesis. 
 
二、參加研討會經過 
2009/6/19 搭乘聯合航空班機前往美國，並寄宿於奧斯汀有人家中。 
2009/6/24 下午參加接待茶會，會中與多位外籍學者交換名片與研究心得。 
2009/6/25 參加第一天的研討會議，選擇聽取多位學者的簡報。 
2009/6/26 參加第二天的研討會議，除參加其他的學者簡報外，並負責擔任下午
的一個session (ISARC Session FRI 4B: Management and Social Issues)之主持人，
並口頭發表此次的論文(Applying Neural Network Ensemble Concepts for Modeling 
Project Success)。 
2009/6/27 參加最後一天的會議。 
 
三、攜回資料 
研討會論文摘要集兩本。 
 
四、附件照片(兩張) 
 
 
           相片一 研討會場 
 
      相片二 筆者發表論文之情形 
五、附件(會議行程表) 
3:00 PM To 
5:00 PM
5:00 PM To 
7:00 PM
7:00 AM  To  
8:00 AM
8:00 AM  To  
9:15 AM
9:15 AM  To  
9:30 AM
ISARC Session TH 1A ISARC Session TH 1B ASCE Session TH 1D
Automated Data Acquisition and Monitoring      Robot Technology Design
ROOM 101 ROOM 202 ROOM 203
Osama Moselhi Yong Cho Raymond R. Issa
Concordia University University of Nebraska-Lincoln University of Florida
Managing Data from Instrumentation in Accelerated 
Pavement Testing (Cadavid, Ayuso, and Mateos)
Light-weight 3D LADAR System for Construction 
Robotic Operations (Cho and Martinez)
BIM's Impact on the Success Measures of Construction 
Projects (Zuppa, Issa and Suermann)
Development of a Warning System for Preventing 
Collision Accident on Construction Site (Chae)
Experimental evaluation of a robotic bolting device in 
steel beam assembly (Jung, Chu, Chu, Hong, and Lee)
Using Product Data Management Systems for Civil 
Engineering Projects - Potentials and Obstacles 
(Borrmann, Schorr, Obergriesser, Ji, Wu, Günthner, 
Euringer and Rank)
Detecting and Locating Leaks in Underground Water 
Mains Using Thermography (Fahmy and Moselhi)
FPGA-Based Real-Time Color Tracking for Robotic 
Formation Control (Yu, Ha, and Kwok)
Predicting Owner's Contingency for Transportation 
Construction Projects Using Intelligent Computing 
Techniques (Lhee, Issa and Flood)
10:30 AM  To  
10:45 AM
ISARC Session TH 2A ISARC Session TH 2B ISARC Session TH 2C ASCE Session TH 2D
Automated Data Acquisition and Monitoring  Information and Computational Technology  Robot Technology                                           Design
ROOM 101 ROOM 202 ROOM 102 ROOM 203
Hyoungkwan Kim Shang-Hsien Hsieh     Soon-Wook Kwon John A. Kuprenas
Yonsei University National Taiwan University Sungkyunkwan University University of Southern California
Development of an automated safety assessment 
framework for construction activities (Chi and Caldas)
A Component-based Approach for Generation of 3 
Dimensional CAD Models Using A Construction 
Component Model Database (Chen and Chu)
Basic Study on Smart Robotic Construction Lift for High-
Rise Building Construction. (Cho, Kwon, Lee, You, and 
Chin)
Collaborative BIM Modeling Case Study - Process and 
Results (Kuprenas and Mock)
Digital Image Processing for Monitoring of Cable Stayed 
Bridge Construction (Kim, Ju and Kim)
A 3-Dimensional Visualized Approach for Maintenance 
and Management of Facilities (Chen and Wang)
Work State Identification using Primitive Static States -
Implementation to Demolition Work in Double-front 
Work Machine (Kamezaki, Iwata, and Sugano)
Dynamic Prototyping: The United States Air Force BIM 
Initiative  (Suermann and Issa)
Web-based GHG Emissions Monitoring System for 
Construction Equipment Working on Project Sites Using 
Wireless Sensors (Lee, Skibniewski, and Jang)
Experiences on Implementing a 4D Construction 
Management Tool in a Design-Build Project (Tsai, Md, 
Kang, and Hsieh)
A Hybrid Learning Strategy for the Control of Window 
Blinds (Raphael)
11:45 AM  To  
1:00 PM
ISARC Session TH 3A ISARC Session TH 3B                              ASCE Session TH 3C                                    ASCE Session TH 3D
Automated Data Acquisition and Monitoring      Management and Social Issues Cutting Edge Development Design
ROOM 101 ROOM 202 ROOM 102 ROOM 203
David Grau                                 Chien-Cheng Chou Timo Hartmann               Renate Fruchter
University of Alabama National Central University University of Twente Stanford University
Development of Plant Construction Management System 
Using RFID Technology (Hatori, Ebata, and Yoshimura)
Managing Utility Installation/Maintenance Schedules to 
Protect Pavement Integrity Using Spatiotemporal Objects 
Database (Chou, Chen, and Chiu)
A Pragmatic Approach to Develop Financial IT Systems 
for Small Construction Companies (Hartmann and 
Johnson)
From Building Information Model to Building 
Knowledge Model (Fruchter, Schrotenboer and Luth)
Impact of Rapid Automated Tracking of Construction 
Components on Labor Productivity (Grau, Caldas, Haas, 
Caldas, and Gong)
Social Network Analysis of Collaborative Entries in 
International Construction Projects (Park, Jeong, and 
Han)
A Decision Support Tool for Rapid Assessment and 
Selection of Engineered Equipment Suppliers (Azambuja, 
O'Brien and Rangarajan)
Design Coordination in BIM Using Ontological 
Consistency Checking (Kim and Grobler)
Measurement of the International Roughness Index (IRI) 
using an Autonomous Robot (P3-AT) (Chang, Su, Huang, 
Kang, and Hsieh)
Prediction of Diaphragm Wall Deflection in Deep 
Excavations Using ESIM (Cheng and Wu)
Developing a Bidding Game Using High Level 
Architecture (AbouRizk, Hague and Moghani)
Interactive Visualization - a Support for Model Updating 
(Rafiq and Sui)
2:00 PM  To  
2:15 PM
ISARC Session TH 4A ISARC Session TH 4B                           ASCE Session TH 4C ASCE Session TH 4D
Automated Data Acquisition and Monitoring      Information and Computational Technology Cutting Edge Development Design
ROOM 101 ROOM 202 ROOM 102 ROOM 203
Osama Moselhi Carl Haas Ken-Yu Lin       Chih-Yuan Chu                  
Concordia University University of Waterloo University of Washington National Central University
Development of Object Detection Technology Using 
Laser Sensor for Intelligent Excavation Work (Soh, Lee, 
and Han)
A Data Fusion Model for Location Estimation in 
Construction (Razavi and Haas)
The Development of a Sustainable e-Learning Model - 
Using Construction Safety and Health Education as an 
Example (Lin)
An Analysis of Usability Tests on Contractors' Data 
Interaction Patterns with Project Histories (Kiziltas and 
Akinci)
Integrating automated data acquisition technologies for 
progress reporting of construction projects (El-Omari and 
Moselhi)
K-means clustering and Chaos Genetic Algorithm for 
nonlinear optimization (Cheng and Huang)
The Potential Use of Insurance as a Risk Management 
Tool for ADR Implementation in Construction Disputes 
(Song, Peña-Mora, Arboleda, Conger and Menassa)
A Development Methodology of Virtual Reality Models 
for Urban Light Rail Transit Projects (Yabuki, 
Kawaguchi and Fukuda)
Mining Knowledge Management Strategies from the 
Performance Data of COPS (Yu, Lin, Liu, and Chang)
Predictive Simulation as a Decision Support System to 
Manage A/E/C Global Teamwork (Ioannidou and 
Fruchter)
Facility Design for Pedestrian Evacuation Using Cellular 
Automation  (Chu)
3:30 PM  To  
5:30 PM IAARC Board of Director Meeting (ROOM 101) ASCE Global Center (3:30-5:00PM, ROOM 202) ASCE JCCE Editor Meeting (ROOM 214)
6:00 PM  To  
8:00 PM
Taste of Texas Mixer (Tejas Dining/Courtyard)
10:45 AM To 
11:45 AM
Lunch (Tejas Dining, Second Floor)
Wednesday, June 24, 2009                                                                                                                                  
IAARC Board of Director Meeting (Room 101)
WELCOME RECEPTION (Room 301)
Thursday, June 25, 2009                                                                                                                                    
Continental Breakfast and Registration (Second Floor Lobby)
Plenary Session (204)                                                                                                                                                                            
Thursday, June 25, 2009                                                                                                                                    
1:00 PM To 
2:00 PM
Break
2:15 PM To 
3:15 PM
Break
9:30 AM To 
10:30 AM
Break
7:00 AM  To  
8:00 AM
8:00 AM  To  
9:00 AM
9:00 AM  To  
9:15 AM
ISARC Session SAT 1A ASCE Session SAT 1B ASCE Session SAT 1C ASCE Session SAT 1D
Automation and Robot Applications              Design Sensing Mobile/Wearable Computing
ROOM 101 ROOM 202 ROOM 102 ROOM 203
David Grau                                 Yo-Ming Hsieh John I. Messner Eddy M. Rojas             
University of Alabama National Taiwan University Pennsylvania State University University of Washington
Development of A Control System for Multi-
Purpose Road Pavement Repairing Machine 
(Kilpelaninen and Jaakkola)
An Efficient Scheme for Parallel Parametric - Study in 
Finite Element Analyses (Hsieh)
An Intelligent Video Computing Method for 
Automated Productivity Analysis of Cyclic 
Construction Operations (Gong and Caldas)
Collaborative GIS for Request of Construction 
Equipment in Disaster Response (Chen and Peña-
Mora)
Assessment of Performance Metrics for Use of 
WSNs in Buildings (Jang and Healy)
GIS-Based Road Maintenance Management (Shrestha and 
Pradhananga)
Project Monitoring Methods Exploratory Case 
Analysis: Industry Responses (Peterson and Fischer)
Evaluating Alternative Methods for Capturing As-Built 
Data for Existing Facilities (Rojas, Dossick, 
Schaufelberger, Brucker, Juan and Rutz)
Motion Control Of Excavator With Tele-
Operated System (Kim, Oh, Hong, Kim, and 
Hong)
Data Driven Methods to Analyze Wave Buoy 
Observations (Kambekar, Deo, Daga and Sakhare)
A System of Systems Approach to Intelligent 
Construction Systems (Bulbul, Anumba and Messner)
Expediting Assessment of Damaged Buildings during 
Disaster Response using Mobile Adhoc Networks 
(Mehta and Peña-Mora)
Optimal Manipulation Trajectory and Laying 
Pattern Generation Algorithm for Brick Handling 
Robot (Lee, Yu, Lim, Ryu, and Han)
Development of an Automated Split Control System for 
Blinds (Olbina and Issa)
Considering Sensor Characteristics during 
Measurement - System Design for Structural System 
Identification (Goulet, Kripakaran and Smith)
Construction of Engineering Domain Ontology through 
Extraction of Knowledge from Domain Handbooks 
(Lin, Hsieh, Chou and Lin)
10:35 AM  To  
10:50 AM
ISARC Session SAT 2A ASCE Session SAT 2B ASCE Session SAT 2C ASCE Session SAT 2D 
Automation and Robot Applications              Life-cycle Assessment and Sustainable Infrastructure Sensing Cutting Edge Development
ROOM 101 ROOM 202 ROOM 102 ROOM 203
Amr Kandil James T. O'Connor William Rasdorf                          Ian F.C. Smith   
Iowa State University University of Texas at Austin North Carolina State University École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne
On-Line Process Management of Pavement 
Laying Using Wireless Communication 
Technologies (Viljamaa, Kilpelainen, and 
Pentikainen)
AsphalOpen - An Intelligent Visualization Tool for 
Asphalt Concrete Paving Operations (Miller, Hartmann 
and Dorée)
Development and Testing of Inertial Measurement 
System for Indoor Localization (Pradhan, Akinci and 
Garrett)
Automated Generation of Construction Schedules 
Based on the IFC Object Model (Tauscher, 
Mikulakova, Beucke and König)
Application of Appropriate Technologies to 3D 
Local Terrain Modeling in real-time for 
Intelligent  Excavating System (IES) (Yu, Yoo, 
Kim, Han, and Seo)
An Implementation Study of the Right-Of-Way 
Acquisition and Utility Adjustment Process Duration 
Information (RUDI) Tool (Sohn, O'Connor, O'Brien and 
Azambuja)
Modeling Buildings for Mobile Robots (Borkowski, 
Grabska and Palacz)
Estimation of Greenhouse Gas Emission Using 
Microsimulation Models: The Case of Austin, Texas 
(Tirumalachetty, Kockelman and Kumar)
Rapid 3D Object Modeling Using 3D Data from 
Flash LADAR for Automated Construction 
Equipment Operations (Son, Kim, and Park)
Providing Local Information for Search and Rescue 
Using Sensor-Based Local Databases (Ergen, Sariel-
Talay and Guven)
Representation of Facility Contents and Threats for 
Supporting Identification of Vulnerabilities in Building 
Emergencies (Leite, Akinci, Garrett and Akin)
GIS and LiDAR Use for Identification of Potential 
Road Hazard Locations (Pradhan and Rasdorf)
Ontology-based Job Hazard Analysis Supports (Wang 
and Boukamp)
Saturday, June 27, 2009                                                                                                                             
Continental Breakfast and Registration (Second Floor Lobby)
Break
9:15 AM To 
10:35 AM
10:50 AM To 
12:10 PM
Break
Plenary Panel (204)                                                                                                                                                                  
- 2 - 
Nevertheless, the early planning process varies significantly throughout industry 
from one organization to another. In light of this, researchers at the Construction 
Industry Institute (CII) and University of Texas at Austin have set up several 
research projects focusing on the early planning process since the 1900’s. In the 
early planning stage of the project life cycle, the process of developing sufficient 
strategic information with which owners can address risk and decide to commit 
resources to maximize the chance for a successful project is defined as the 
pre-project planning process (CII 1995). Preproject planning is a major phase of 
the project life cycle and it begins after a decision is made by the business unit to 
proceed with a project concept and continues until the detailed design is 
developed. 
 
Preproject planning process constitutes a comprehensive framework for detailed 
project planning and includes scope definition.  Project scope definition is the 
process by which projects are selected defined and prepared for definition.  It is a 
key practice necessary for achieving excellent project performance (Merrow and 
Yarossi 1994) and is a key element in the preproject planning process.  How well 
preproject planning is performed will affect cost and schedule performance, 
operating characteristics of the facility, as well as the overall financial success of 
the project (Gibson and Hamilton 1994). Success during the detailed design, 
construction, and start-up phases of a project highly depends on the level of effort 
expended during the scope definition phase as well as the integrity of project 
definition package (Gibson and Dumont 1996). Therefore, it is important to 
investigate the relationship between preproject planning and project success with 
real data from the industry. 
 
In order to measure the preproject planning efforts for each construction project, a 
scope definition tool, Project Definition Rating Index (PDRI) is incorporated in 
this research to evaluate the completeness of project scope definition. The Project 
Definition Rating Index, developed by CII, is a comprehensive, weighted 
checklist of crucial scope definition elements that have to be addressed in 
pre-project planning process. It provides the project team a simple and easy-to-use 
tool to objectively evaluate the current status of a project during preproject 
planning phase.  Since its development, researchers at the University of Texas at 
Austin and Construction Industry Institute (CII) have been collecting preproject 
planning information using the PDRI.  For the uniqueness of the different sectors 
in the construction industry, two versions of the PDRI have been developed 
specifically for the Industrial and Building sectors. 
 
- 4 - 
 
The data collection was accomplished through a series of retrospective case 
studies. The sample projects used in this study were obtained from three different 
sources: previous PDRI research, CII Benchmarking and Metrics research, and 
institutional organizational (which prefers remaining anonymous) PDRI 
benchmarking research. Data from 62 industrial projects and 78 building projects, 
representing approximately $5 billion in total construction cost, were collected 
and used to conduct an investigation of the early planning practices in the 
industrial and building industry. Nevertheless, it is important to note that the 
collected sample from these three sources is based on organization’s volunteering 
projects and not on a random sample of a known population. 
 
3. Data Analysis and Modeling 
Information related to preproject planning practice and project performance is 
collected through the sample project survey. A database is set up for this research 
project and is used for data storage and further analysis. The preproject planning 
status for each surveyed project is measured using the PDRI evaluation. Two 
project performance aspects are of particular concern for this research: cost and 
schedule performance. Cost performance and schedule performance are measured 
by cost and schedule growth. In the survey, respondents were asked to provide 
estimated costs at the start of construction document development as well as the 
actual costs after construction completion. Total cost growth measures total 
project cost growth as a percentage of the initial estimated project cost. Cost 
performance was measured by project Cost Growth metric obtained as follow: 
      
CostEstimatedInitial
CostEstimatedInitialCostFinal −     (1) 
The total project duration used to calculate project schedule growth was measured 
from the start date of construction documents development to the date of 
substantial completion in months. The following equation was used for computing 
project schedule performance, Schedule Growth: 
ScheduleEstimatedInitial
ScheduleEstimatedInitialScheduleFinal −
  (2) 
When considering cost performance, it is defined in this research that if the 
project has a cost growth equal to or less than 0, the project is classified as a 
successful project. In the mean time, when considering schedule performance, a 
project is defined as a successful project if the schedule growth is equal to or less 
than 0. It should be noted that schedule and cost performances are investigated 
separately throughout this research. 
- 6 - 
∑=
i
ijij WIx        (3) 
jxjj e
xfh −+== 1
1)(      (4) 
∑=
j
jkjk Why       (5) 
As presented by Eq. (5), the neurons in the output layer receive activation signals 
(weighted sum of inputs to neuron k) from the neurons in the hidden layer. In Eq 
(5), yk is the input of the neuron k in the output layer and Wjk is the weight of the 
connection between the neurons j and k in the hidden and output layers, 
respectively.  In the output layer, these activation signals are transformed 
(through activation function) again to generate the outputs of the neural network.  
This process is shown in Eq. (6), where ok is the predicted value of the outputs.  
Then the outputs are compared with desired or actual values, dk..  The error 
(difference between predicted value and desired/actual value) at the output 
neurons is defined by Eq. (7).  The best performance of the neural network is 
achieved when the error is minimized. 
kykk e
yfo −+== 1
1)(      (6) 
∑ −=
k
kk odWE
2)(
2
1)(      (7) 
For supervised neural networks (models with specific actual/desired outputs), one 
of the most effective and popular technique to minimize the error function E(W) is 
the back-propagation (BP) algorithm. For back-propagation neural networks, the 
error at the output layer propagates backward to the hidden layer and then to the 
input layer to update the weights for each of the connections in the neural 
networks.  These forward process (input layer to hidden layer to output layer) 
and backward process (output layer to hidden layer to input layer) are repeated to 
minimize the error. 
 
These repeated processes are viewed as learning (training) process.  The 
relationships between inputs and outputs of the system are memorized through the 
connection weights.  It should be noted that before the learning process starts, 
small random numbers (e.g., between −0.1 and 0.1) are assigned as the initial 
weights to the connections between the neurons.  This ensures that the network is 
not saturated by large values of the weight, and prevents some training 
pathologies. Sometimes, the data will be normalized before to obtain convergence 
within a reasonable number of cycles. 
 
- 8 - 
 
Fig. 3. Bootstrap Aggregation Neural Network Ensemble 
 
Freud and Schpire (1996) applied boosting algorithms obtained a better result 
when comparing with bootstrap aggregation method. Similar to bootstrap 
aggregation method, boosting method also creates a group of classifiers through a 
series of training process. However, the selection of training data is different. For 
bootstrap aggregation method, the training dataset, also known as bootstrap 
sample, is chosen at random with replacement from the original training set. 
Boosting maintains a weight for each instance and the higher the weight, the more 
likely the instance will be selected for classifier training. At each training process, 
the weight of misclassified instance is increased and thus makes it more likely to 
be chosen for the next round. After a series of classifier training under boosting 
approach, the final classifier aggregates the learned classifiers and the results are 
better than bootstrap aggregation method. Using neural networks as classifiers, the 
boosting approach is shown in Figure 4. 
 
Fig. 4. Boosting Neural Network Ensemble 
Integration
Problem
Sub-Dataset 1 
Original Training Dataset
Sub-Dataset 2 Sub-Dataset n
Integration
Problem
Training Dataset 1 
Training Dataset 2
Training Dataset n
