3報告內容：
前言、
Stream ciphers is used for applications where encryptions are done in resource constrained
environment such as in RFID or smart cards or where real-time applications are crucial such as in
mobile telephony, pay-TV, or Internet applications. In other words, stream ciphers with their low
cost for hardware implementation are most suitable for in embedded systems.
On the other hand, there have been quite many theoretical researches about stream ciphers and
correlation attacks [1-12], little analysis has been reported about the implementation of stream
ciphers in the embedded system [13]. Our result will be valuable for stream cipher designers,
with a faster and more observable microprocessor-based embedded environment.
Also the implementation of cryptography in hardware and embedded systems is a goal of industry
vendor, e.g. Intel, TI, Gemplus. The CHES (Cryptographic Hardware and Embedded Systems)
workshop has been held annually since 1999, with the focus to promote the security related
implementations in embedded systems.
Therefore, we believe that the implementation of stream ciphers and its cryptanalysis in
hardware/embedded systems should be a research area that needs immediate attention.
研究目的、
Extending the research “93-2213-E-233-007”from the previous year, our goal is to implement
stream ciphers and its attacks in embedded systems. More precisely, we aim to build the
integrated testing environment in an ARM-based embedded system, which provides stream cipher
designers a performance evaluation environment to test the strength of their stream ciphers and
the effectiveness of various attacks.
文獻探討、
This section describes the current design considerations of streams ciphers and the attacks. We
also discuss the two approaches of embedded system implementations.
The design considerations of streams ciphers include to provide a design which (1) fulfills the
required degree of security, (2) can operate at high speed and (3) is small and simple to
implement in hardware or software. The security consideration of stream cipher is to produce
long keystreams with pseudorandom properties.
The pseudorandom property is a goal for both theoretical proofs and experimental supports.
Stream cipher designers use components that produce sequences with known properties, and then
combine those components, with the goal to achieve desirable properties and also to remove the
5研究方法、
In this project, we aim to perform cryptanalysis based on the practical implementations. As
mentioned earlier, we will try the two approaches of embedded system design and compared their
results.
Specifically, we choose an ARM 9-based platform and get familiar with its working environment.
The design process includes 1) we gather system requirements and specifications, 2) we do an
architecture design, 3) we design hardware and software components and 4) we perform system
integration and testing.
結果與討論（含結論與建議）、
結論與建議之一:
For VLSI stream cipher implementation, the three design core design parameters include its
chip area, power comsumption, security related to implementation attacks. For security
implemenations, the attacks including side-channel attacks and fault-injection attacks should
be considered.
結論與建議之二:
Wireless communication is an important application area for embedded systems. The stream
cipher standards e.g. A5 in GSM , RC4 in Wireless LAN, E0 in Bluetooth deserve more
cryptanalysis attention as well as implementations.
結論與建議之三:
As discussed earlier, one of the design considerations of embedded system is its flexibity vs.
efficiency. At different stages of design, software or hardware implementation might play roles of
different importances.
References:
[1] T. Siegenthaler, “Decrypting a class of stream ciphers using ciphertext only,” IEEE 
Transactions on Computers, 1985, Page(s): 81-85.
[2] T. Johansson, F. Jönsson, ``Improved fast correlation attacks on stream ciphers via
convolutional codes,'' LNCS, (EUROCRYPT'99).
[3] T. Johansson, F. Jönsson, ``Fast correlation attacks based on Turbo code techniques,'' LNCS,
(CRYPTO'99).
[4] A. Canteaut and M. Trabbia, “Compared performance of fast correlation atacks an stream 
ciphers,” in Proceedings. IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory 2000 , Page(s): 
213.
[5] M.J. Mihaljevic, M.P.C. Fossorier and H. Imai, "An improved fast correlation attack based on
list decoding," in Proceedings. IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory, 2003,
Page(s): 165 .
[6]T. Siegenthaler, “Correlation Immunity of Nonlinear Combining Functions for Cryptographic 
Applications”, IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. IT 35, pp 776-780, 1984.
[7] G. Xiao, J.L. Massey, “A Spectral Characterization of Corelation Immune Functions”, IEEE 
Transactions on Information Theory, Vol. IT-34, pp 569-571, 1988.
