Abstract 
The present study shows experimental 
results of the transmission of the overdriven 
detonation across a mixture in the tube of 
diameter near the detonability limits. the 
strength of the incident overdriven detonation 
play an important role in the wave 
transmission process. A transmitted 
overdriven detonation wave takes place 
instantaneously when a strong incident 
overdriven detonation wave is used. The near 
CJ state of the incident wave leads to a 
transmitted shock wave, and then the 
transition to the overdriven detonation occurs 
downstream. Whatever the transmitted 
overdriven detonation wave is attained 
instantaneously or by transition, the process 
of the transmitted overdriven detonation 
wave attenuating to near CJ detonation state 
occurs in all tests. In most tests, there is an 
unstable detonation wave observed after the 
attenuation process approaching to near CJ. 
This may be attributed to that the increase of 
the cell width in the attenuation process lies 
outside the detonability limits. 
 
Keywords: deflagration-to-detonation, tube 
diameter, overdriven detonation wave 
 
Introduction  
The phenomenon of the transmission of 
detonation from one mixture to another of 
different sensitivity is of interest for the 
development of pulse detonation engines 
(PDE). To ensure the success of a PDE, a 
predetonator concept is adopted. A detonation 
wave can then be generated in the 
predetonator and transmitted into the larger 
diameter, main combustor filled with a 
hydrocarbon-air mixture to produce the 
required engine thrust. Critical parameters for 
the predetonator were investigated in various 
mixture compositions recently [1-3]. From a 
practical perspective, the use of liquid fuel 
that has been approved by the aviation 
industry such as JP-10 or Jet-A is considered 
for the main combustor. Because the cell size 
of JP-10/air and Jet-A/air is close to that of 
propane/air, propane is a suitable gaseous 
surrogate for JP-10 and Jet-A [4]. However, a 
previous study on detonation diffraction 
through different mixture compositions [3] 
indicated that the detonation wave in a tube of 
=d 33 mm with a C3H8 + 5O2 mixture failed 
to transmit into the main combustor with =d  
165 mm, filled with a C3H8 + 5(O2 + βN2) 
mixture (β ≥ 0.76). The studies of Desbordes 
and Lannoy [5] showed that a CJ detonation 
wave propagating into a less sensitive mixture 
can result in an overdriven detonation 
condition, in which the cell size decreases 
with a higher degree of overdrive 
 and in turn a decrease in the 
diffraction critical diameter. Here the 
overdriven detonation wave (or called strong 
detonation wave) is defined as the detonation 
wave velocity  higher than theoretical CJ 
detonation velocity . They suggested a 
method to enhance a successful transmission 
of detonation waves into a larger tube, which 
is to move the interface between different 
mixture compositions prior to the location of 
area change. This method can be applied to 
carry out the predetonator concept. 
Furthermore, an overdriven detonation wave 
was observed in the Deflagration- 
Detonation-Transition DDT process [6]. It was 
expected that the overdriven detonation wave 
propagating into a mixture change will result 
in a higher degree of overdrive than that of the 
CJ detonation wave. 
CJUUD /
* =
U
CJU
Transmission of detonation waves across 
lie on the range from 1~1.1. This phenomenon 
is probably attributed to the inherent 
non-universal way for DDT to occur [6] and 
the existence of the diaphragm across a 
mixture change. In the DDT process, a 
number of compression waves accompanying 
the flame acceleration run ahead of the flame 
and reflect from the diaphragm. Not far away 
enough of the transition location from the 
diaphragm, the reflected compression waves 
will further precompress non-reacted mixture 
and cause higher  than that without 
precompressing in the preliminary test. With 
different strength of the reflected compression 
wave due to that flame acceleration process 
differs in various ways for DDT, the variation 
in  naturally occur. Whereas increasing 
 decreases the strength of the reflected 
compression wave from the diaphragm 
because more compression waves will be 
caught up by the established detonation wave 
in DDT process. Fig. 3 shows the measured 
 of the transmitted wave behind and next 
to the diaphragm. With different mixture 
compositions 
*
iD
*
iD
DL
*
tD
tφ ,  for  = 254 is 
closely comparable and near to CJ detonation 
state. But  for  = 152.4, 203.2 
represents a wide variation. It is consistent 
with the distribution of  shown in Fig. 2. 
These results show that  mainly depends 
on  rather than 
*
tD DL
*
tD DL
*
iD
*
tD
*
iD tφ . It indicates that the 
observation of the transmitted wave behind 
the diaphragm for each test must concern its 
specific degree of overdrive of the incident 
overdriven detonation wave even the 
diaphragm location is the same. Moreover, the 
results shows that  = 0.95 as  = 1.07 
with 
*
tD
*
iD
tφ  = 1 and tφ  = 1. This sub-CJ state of 
the transmitted wave is more close to , 
which is the degree of overdrive of the 
transmitted shock wave. It shows that a 
transmitted shock wave is obtained as a slight 
degree of overdrive of detonation wave 
impacts the mixture change interface. 
)( 3
* IDt
After the overdriven detonation wave 
impacting the diaphragm, the velocity of the 
transmitted wave falls abruptly shown in all 
tests. It is due to the presence of the 
concentration discontinuity and the diaphragm 
[10]. This study showed that the transmission 
of detonation wave to a weaker mixture was 
as effective with the diaphragm as without. In 
addition, Berets et al. [7] indicated that the 
diaphragm can cause the time delays in the 
transmission of the waves. In the present study, 
no attempt to measure this time delay since it 
is difficult to estimate the time delay with an 
unstable incident overdriven detonation wave. 
Consequently, the mean speed across the 
diaphragm is not included in our analysis and 
discussion below.  
According to all experimental results, the 
wave transmission can be classified into three 
types behind the diaphragm: 
A. Decay to overdriven state and no transition. 
B. Decay to overdriven state and transition.  
C. Decay to sub-CJ state and transition. 
Typical diagram of the degree of 
overdrive varying with the distance from the 
closed is shown in Fig. 4. For the type A, there 
are two distinct modes observed. The 
displacement-time diagram for mode (A1) is 
shown in Fig. 5. The high overdriven 
detonation wave decays abruptly at the 
diaphragm and then maintains an overdriven 
addition, mode (A2) also frequently happens 
at  = 203.2 mm with intermediate 
strength of the incident overdriven detonation 
wave (  = 1.06 – 2.12).  
DL
*
iD
In Mode (B), the overdriven state (  = 
1.07) is obtained after diaphragm ruptures 
between  and . However, a gradually 
acceleration process takes place and develop a 
higher degree of overdrive (  = 1.25) 
between  and . Then the overdriven 
detonation wave decay to near CJ state (  = 
0.93) between  and  as modes (A1) 
and (A2). The propagation speed measured at 
the rear of the test tube is 0.81 . And not a 
detonation wave is found near to the open end. 
For the acceleration process rather than 
attenuation process after diaphragm ruptures, 
it is considered that a transmitted shock wave 
is formed. Because of less reactivate mixtures 
in this case (
*
tD
5A 6A
*
tD
7A 8A
*
tD
8A 9A
CJD
tφ  = 0.76), the induction time to 
react is too long to result in no detonation 
wave initiated instantaneously. In this case, 
the overdriven state after the diaphragm 
corresponds to a high strength of shock wave. 
The transmitted shock wave preheats the 
mixture and results in reaction. Small pressure 
disturbance from the reaction accelerates the 
transmitted shock wave and transition to 
overdriven detonation wave. The detailed 
transition mechanism has been observed by 
Edwards et al. [8, 9]. The unstable detonation 
wave is also not found in this mode. This 
mode is a special case in all tests. We found it 
at  = 203.2 mm for DL iφ  = 1.0 with  = 
4.04. This mode may occur when a drastic 
incident overdriven detonation wave and low 
reactivate mixtures is used. 
*
iD
In mode (C), a sub-CJ state (  = 0.77) 
is observed after diaphragm ruptures between 
 and . The strength of the incident 
overdriven detonation wave of this mode 
( ) is apparently lower than the other 
modes. It leads to form a transmitted shock 
wave as shown in section 3.2. Fig. 8 shows the 
displacement-time diagram for this mode. The 
transition to an overdriven detonation wave 
takes place between  and . From Fig. 4, 
the attenuate of new overdriven detonation 
wave to near CJ state without transition 
downstream is found. However, based on Fig. 
8, there is another transition to overdriven 
detonation wave between  and . Then 
it decays again downstream. This reveals the 
occurrence of the unstable detonation wave. 
The propagation speed measured at the rear of 
the test tube is 0.92 . Near to the near open 
end, a detonation wave is still observed. This 
mode is found at  = 152.4 mm for 
*
tD
3A 4A
08.1* =iD
4A 5A
7A 8A
CJD
DL iφ  = 
0.9. It is due to the DDT run-up distance for 
this mixture is longer than 152.4 mm [13]. A 
high speed turbulent flame is used to impact 
the mixture change interface and results in the 
formation of the transmitted shock wave. In 
addition, this mode also frequently appears at 
 = 254 mm for DL iφ  = 0.9, 1.0, 1.1. In these 
tests,  = 0.9 – 1.07, they are reasonably 
regarded as using an incident CJ detonation 
wave in the wave transmission.  
*
iD
Among these modes, an unstable 
detonation wave appears in mode (A2) and 
(C), which is mostly found in all tests. The 
experiments by Mooradian and Gordon [10, 
22] have shown similar results. They noted the 
weaken the transmitted overdriven 
detonation wave in the wave transmission 
process. 
2.The detonation wave is observed near the 
open end if 87.0≥tφ  and , 
which is independent of what kind of the 
wave transmission is. The propagation of the 
detonation wave after the wave transmission 
process of wave directly connects with 
detonability limits. 
82.0* ≥tD
3.For application in the predetonator, it is 
suggested that the mixture change interface 
should be placed between slight behind 
DDT location and one diameter from DDT 
location.  
References. 
[1] Sinibaldi, J.O., Brophy, C.M., Li, C., 
Kailasanath, K., “Initiator Detonation 
Diffraction Studies in Pulsed Detonation 
Engines,” AIAA paper 2001-3466, 2001. 
[2] Murray, S.B., Zhang, F., Gerrard, K.B., 
“Critical parameters for Pulse Detonation 
Engine Pre-detonator Tubes,” 19th 
ICDERS, 2003. 
[3] Schultz, E. and Shepherd, J.E., 
“Detonation Diffraction through a Mixture 
Gradient,” Technical Report FM00-1, 
GALCIT, 2000. 
[4] Akbar, R., Thibault, P.A., Harris, P.G., 
Lussier, L.-S., Zhang, F., Murray, S.B., 
Gerrard, K., “Detonation Properties of 
Unsensitized and Sensitized JP-10 and 
Jet-A Fuels in Air for Pulse Detonation 
Engines,” AIAA-2000-3592, 2000. 
[5] Desbordes, D., Lannoy, A., “Effects of a 
Negative Step of Fuel Concentration on 
Critical Diameter of Diffraction of a 
Detonation,” Progress in Astronautics and 
Aeronautics, Vol. 133, 1991, pp. 170-186.  
[6] Urtiew, P.A., Oppenheim, A.K., 
“Experimental Observation of the 
Transition to Detonation in an Explosion 
Gas,” Proceedings of the Royal Society of 
London, Series A, Vol. 295, 1966, 
pp.13-28. 
[7] Berets, D.J., Greene, E.F., Kistiakowsky, 
G.B., “Gaseous Detonation. II. Initiation 
by Shock Waves,” Journal of American 
chemistry Society, Vol. 72, 1950, pp. 
1086-1091. 
[8] Edwards, D.H., Thomas, G.O., Williams, 
T.L., “Initiation of Detonation by Steady 
Planar Incident Shock Waves,” 
Combustion and Flame, Vol. 43, 1981, pp. 
187-198. 
[9] Thomas, G.O., Sutton, P., Edwards, D.H., 
“The Behavior of Detonation Waves at 
Concentration Gradients,” Combustion 
and Flame, Vol. 84, 1991, pp. 312-322. 
[10] Mooradian, A.J., Gordon, W.E., 
“Gaseous Detonation. I. Initiation of 
Detonation,” The Journal of Chemical 
Physics, Vol. 19, Number 9, 1951, pp. 
1166-1172. 
[11] Paterson, S., “Contact Transmission of 
Detonation,” Fourth Symposium 
(International) on Combustion, 1953, 
pp.468-471. 
[12] Kuznetsov, M.S., Dorofeev, S.B., 
Efimenko, A.A., Alekseev, V.I., Breitung, 
W., “Experimental and Numerical Studies 
on Transmission of Gaseous Detonation to 
a Less Sensitive Mixture,” Shock Waves, 
Vol. 7, 1997, pp. 297-304. 
[13] Li, J., Lai, W.H., Chung, K., “Tube 
Diameter Effect on 
Deflagration-to-Detonation Transition of 
Propane-Oxygen Mixtures,” Shock Waves, 
has been accepted to publish, 2006. 
[14] Li, J., Lai, W.H., Chung, K., Lu, F.K., 
“Uncertainty Analysis of deflagration-to- 
detonation Run-up Distance,” Shock 
Waves, Vol. 14, Nos. 5-6, 2005, pp. 
413-420. 
[15] Knystautas, R., Lee, J.H., Peraldi, O., 
Chan, C.K., “Transmission of a Flame 
from a Rough to a Smooth-Walled Tube,” 
Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, 
Vol. 106, pp.37-52, 1986. 
[16] Austin, J.M., Shepherd, J.E., 
“Detonations in Hydrocarbon Fuel 
Blends," Explosion Dynamics Laboratory 
Report FM99-6, 2000. 
[17] Fickett, W., Davis, W.C., Detonation 
Theory and Experiment, Dover 
Publications, New York, 1979. 
[18] Taylor, G.I., “The Dynamics of the 
Combustion Products behind Plane and 
Spherical Detonation Fronts in 
Explosives,” Proceedings of the Royal 
Society of London, Series A, Vol. A200, 
1950, pp. 235-247. 
[19] Dremin, A.N., Toward Detonation 
Theory, Springer, New York, 1999. 
[20] Mitchell, R.E., Kee, R.J., SHOCK: A 
General Purpose Computer Code for 
