2The overall mechanical behavior of
engineering structures can be substantially
affected by irreversible evolution of multiple
distributed cracks. An important concern
for such multi-cracked problems is on
prediction of the associated effective stiffness
in the cracked solids. Studies related to this
issue have been extensively reported in the
past decades. Most of them are concerned
with degradation of material integrity (i.e.
material characteristic), especially in the field
of micromechanics (as reviewed by, e.g.
Kachanov (1992)).
In order to effectively characterize the
actual mechanical behavior of the
multi-cracked media, mutual interaction of
the cracks needs to be explicitly and
accurately accounted. To this end, a variety
of approaches in the context of material
characteristic have been introduced. On one
hand, for 'regular' distribution of cracks, the
mechanical properties of the cracked solids
can be modeled by a periodic medium which
consists of a collection of unit cells. Based
on this periodic feature, the material moduli
of the overall cracked medium are then
represented by those of the unit cell. With
this concept, the fracture behavior due to
interaction of the cracks contained in a unit
cell and, subsequently, in the periodic
medium can thus be properly simulated
either analytically or numerically (e.g.
Nemat-Nasser (1993), Huang et al. (1996),
Kushch and Sangani (2000), etc.). On the
other hand, for problems containing
irregularly or randomly distributed cracks,
the mutual interaction of the crack system
becomes too complicated to be simulated
analytically. Owing to this difficulty, a
number of approximate numerical schemes
have therefore been proposed (as reviewed
by, e.g., Chen (1995), and Petrova et al.
(2000)). In most of these schemes, solution
to the problem associated with interaction of
cracks was formulated in terms of a set of
integral equations. Such formulation leads
to a system of linear algebraic equations,
which may cost significant computational
effort when the number of cracks becomes
relatively large. Therefore, development of
alternative and efficient methods for
characterizing the interaction of multiple
cracks, especially in the case of high
concentration of cracks, is of considerable
importance.
The concept by using energy parameters
in fracture analysis is of practical interest,
especially in the condition when the stress
state in the near-tip region becomes too
complicated to be described. A well-known
parameter, the J-integral (Budiansky and
Rice (1973)), has been widely used for
evaluation of the energy release rate
corresponding to extending a single crack tip
in quasi-brittle materials. Nevertheless, it
was not until very recently has the M-integral,
another energy conservation contour integral
derived from Noether's theorem, been
applied in problems containing multiple
cracks. A series of studies were presented
by using the M-integral to characterize the
material damage level due to microcracking
in uniformly-loaded elastic infinite media
(Wang and Chen (2002), Tian (2004), etc.).
Also, a fracture parameter Mc is proposed by
the authors (Chang and Chien (2002), Chang
and Peng (2004)) to describe the degradation
of material and structural integrity caused by
irreversible evolution of multiple cracks.
An important feature addressed in these
works is on illustration of the physical
meaning of Mc, which evaluates twice the
surface energy associated with creation of all
cracks in the media. With such a feature, it
was thus suggested that the Mc-integral be
used as an energy parameter that measures
the damage level associated with stiffness
loss in both the multi-cracked materials and
structures.
This research is aimed to present a
simple and efficient method to determine the
effective elastic stiffness of multi-cracked
solids. Since the crack interaction is
characterized in terms of a scalar energy
parameter rather than the
conventionally-used algebraic matrix system,
implementation of the presented method
appears to be straightforward in practice.
Thiss research is to be conducted in three
years. We are presently carrying out the
research work for the second year, in which
the conditions associated with the presence
of multiple kinked cracks are considered
through definition of the corresponding
4multi-cracked system in a specific local
region) is commonly used in micromechanics
for prediction of the effective fields.
Although no specific requirements have been
established for definition of RAE, it is
generally required that the size of  be
chosen large enough to enclose the whole set
of cracks. Also, the shape of  can be
specified either according to the statistical
distribution of crack orientations or by using
any other convenient selections. In the
present study, the subregion is schematized
as a rectangle, which is similar to those used
by some researchers. Other shapes, e.g.,
elliptical and circular unit, have also been
adopted in related research works.
In order to yield an estimation of the
effective elastic moduli by using the results
of the surface energy (i.e., the M-integral), an
appropriate expression for the effective
compliance tensor of the RAE is to be
determined. With this, constitutive relation
for the effective stiffness with the result of
the M-integral can then be constructed as
: [(H–Ho)–1:Ho+S]–1:Ho–1:=
Mc /A
where H is the effective elastic stiffness
tensor of the RAE (i.e., the inclusion), Ho is
the elastic stiffness tensor of the matrix
material, S is the Eshelby's tensor, and AW is
the area of the RAE. Expressions for S
associated with various shapes of inclusion
can be found in, e.g., Walpole (1969).
七、NUMERICAL EXAMPLE
Problem 1
We consider a plane strain isotropic
specimen containing a number of densely
(and, arbitrarily) distributed kinked cracks,
each with different length and orientation, as
shown in Figure 4. The crack length is
relatively small compared with the width w
and length B so that the finite width effect of
the specimen can be neglected. The
specimen is subjected to a uniaxial tensile
stress along the boundaries.
To illustrate the physical meaning of the
M-integral, we have the FE results of M/2
versus the number of cracks N depicted in
Figure 5. Also shown in the figure are the
values of the difference of potential energy
(i.e. the coresponding surface energy).  
The two curves match so well that they are
almost distinguishable with each other. The
physical meaning of M as twice the surface
energy is thus well demonstrated.
The validity of the correspondence
between the origin-independent M-integral
and the surface energy for multiple kinked
cracks in a homogeneously-stressed elastic
field is numerically supported by the results
from above. The results in Figure 9 reveal
that M is a monotonically increasing function
of the crack density (i.e. the number of
cracks in the specimen). Furthermore, it is
observed that the contribution from each
crack is quite different since the
corresponding surface energy depends upon
the crack size, the crack orientation, and the
stressed condition. Also, the effect due to
interactions of the densely distributed cracks
is effectively characterized by M. These
observed features indicate that application of
M would facilitate understanding of the
degradation of material stiffness induced by
the above geometric and loading factors.
This appears as a material characteristic and
a possible measure of fracture parameter
corresponding to irreversible evolution of
kinked cracks can thus be developed by the
concept of M.
Problem 2
The effective material moduli for a
homogeneously-stressed specimen (material
characteristic) is calculated in the example.
We consider a plane stress isotropic
specimen containing a family of parallel
one-sized cracks. These cracks, each of
length l, are located in a regular and doubly
periodic manner, where s and d denote the
spacings of neighboring cracks in the parallel
(x1-) and perpendicular (x2-) directions.
The crack distribution results in orthotropic
mechanical behavior in the loading plane.
The crack length l is relatively small
compared with the width w and length B.
In the following study, two special
loading angles are taken, which correspond
to the loading conditions of uniaxial tension
and pure shear respectively. Also, two
crack systems are considered, where the
patterns of crack distribution are different.
The first system consists of 11x36 cracks and
6equations in plane elasticity crack problems.
Engineering Fracture Mechanics 51 (1), 97-134.
Eshelby, J.D. (1957). The determination of the
elastic field of an ellipsoidal inclusion and related
problems. Proceeding of Royal Society London
Serial A 241, 376-396.
Huang, Y., Chandra, A., Jiang, Z.Q., Wei, X.,
and Hu, K.X. (1996). The numerical calculation of
two-dimensional effective moduli for
microcracked solids. International Journal of
Solids and Structures 33, 1575-1586.
Ju, J.W. and Chen, T.M. (1994). Micromechanics
and effective moduli of elastic composites
containing randomly dispersed ellipsoidal
inhomogeneities. Acta Mechanics 103, 103-121
Kachanov, M. (1992). Effective elastic
properties of cracked solids: critical review of
some basic concepts. Applied Mechanics Review
45, 304-335.
Kushch, V.I. and Sangani, A.S. (2000). Stress
intensity factor and effective stiffness of a solid
containing aligned penny-shaped cracks.
International Journal of Solids and Structures 37,
6555-6570.
Nemat-Nasser, S., Yu, S., and Hori, M. (1993).
Solids with periodically distributed cracks,
International Journal of Solids and Structures 30,
2071-2095.
Petrova, V., Tamuzs, V., and Romalis, N. (2000).
A survey of macro-microcrack interaction
problems, Applied Mechanics Review 53 (5),
1459-1472.
Sevostianov, I. and Kachanov, M. (2002). On
elastic compliances of irregularly shaped cracks.
International Journal of Fracture 114 (3),
245-257.
Shen, L. and Li, J. (2004). A numerical
simulation for effective elastic moduli of plates
with various distributions and sizes of cracks.
International Journal of Solids and Structures 41,
7471-7492.
Tian, W.Y. (2004). Microcracking damage
analysis in piezoelectric bimaterial solids.
International Journal of Fatigue 26 (8), 873-888.
Tsudrov, I. and Novak, J. (2004). Effective
elastic properties of solids with two-dimensional
inclusions of irregular shapes. International
Journal of Solids and Structures 41 6905-6924.
Walpole, L.J. (1969). On the overall elastic
moduli of composite materials, Journal of
Mechanics in Physics and Solids 17, 235-251.
Wang, D.F. and Chen, Y.H. (2002). M-integral
analysis for a two-dimensional metal/ceramic
bimaterial solid with extending subinterface
microcracks. Archives of Applied Mechanics 72,
588-598.
Figure 1
Figure 2
Figure 3
