 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
 
無音頻共振汽車用HID燈電子安定器之研製 
(NSC 99-2628-E-214-002) 
計畫主持人：  鄭竣安  博士 
共同主持人：  鄭宏良  博士 
計畫參與人員：古宸維 楊馥澧 嚴俊顯 
執行單位：義守大學電機工程學系 
 
摘要 
   汽車用HID燈（Automotive HID Lamps）與傳統的鹵素燈
（Halogen Lamps）相較之下具有較高的發光效率(>5倍)、較高
的輸出流明(>3倍) 、較長之燈管壽命(>3倍)等特點。因此，近
年來在高級的進口車種，甚至一般的國產車種中，均已開始使
用HID燈作為汽車頭燈之標準配備，以提供一個高亮度與高品
質之照明用光源。 
    有鑑於此，本計畫研製新型無音頻共振且具有限定輸出功
率控制功能之兩級式汽車用 HID 燈電子安定器，目的是精簡
功率開關的數目。電子安定器的前級架構採用具有雙輸出繞組
及串接倍壓功能的返馳式轉換器作為直流-直流轉換級；後級
架構採用高頻結合低頻方波驅動之半橋換流器作為直流-交流
轉換級，且包含點燈電路。除此以外，並研製限定輸出功率控
制電路，以偵測輸出電壓與流經功率開關的電流回授訊號來改
變前級直流-直流轉換器的功率開關驅動訊號中的高頻方波的
責任週期，進而可調節且控制燈管的穩態功率，達到汽車用
HID 燈管能限制在±3%額定燈管功率值的目標。本計畫提出的
汽車用 HID 燈電子安定器具有無音頻共振、限制輸出功率控
制、精簡功率開關數目，以及節省電路成本等特點，且符合未
來汽車照明工業之發展趨勢。 
 
關鍵詞：音頻共振，汽車用HID燈，轉換器，電子安定器，換
流器 
 
Abstract 
The automotive High-Intensity-Discharging (HID) lamps 
provide higher luminous efficiency (>500%), higher luminous 
intensity (>300%), and longer lamp-life (>300%) compared with 
traditional halogen lamps.  In order to supply high intensity and 
high quality headlights, automotive HID lamps recently have 
begun to be used as headlamps in high-class import and domestic 
automobiles.   
Therefore, this proposal designs and implements a novel 
two-stage electronic ballast for automotive HID lamps with 
acoustic-resonance-free and limited output lamp power control.  
The main goal of the proposal is to reduce the numbers of power 
switches.  The proposed automotive HID lamp ballast is 
composed of a flyback converter with two output windings and a 
cascaded voltage doubler as 1st-stage for DC-DC conversions and 
a high-frequency combining with low-frequency square-wave 
driven half-bridge inverter as 2nd-stage for DC-AC conversions 
along with an igniter.  In addition, a limited output lamp power 
control scheme is developed and utilized the feedback signals of 
the sensed voltage and the sensed switch current to alter the duty 
cycle of high-frequency square-waveforms inside gate-driving 
signals of the power switch in the 1st-stage converter for 
regulating lamp power under ±3% rated power at steady-state 
condition.  The proposed ballast is suitable for future 
applications of headlamp lighting for automobiles, and it has 
features of acoustic-resonance-free, limited output lamp power 
control and cost-effectiveness. 
 
Keywords: Acoustic Resonance, Automotive HID Lamps, 
Converters, Electronic Ballast, Inverters 
 
I. 研究背景 
由於汽車在台灣為相當普遍的交通工具，良好的照
明設備對汽車駕駛人極為重要，根據統計駕車發生的事
故當中，有百分之六十以上是在夜間或是天候不佳的情
況下發生。為了保障駕駛人及路人的人身安全，良好的
照明設備已變成汽車頭燈製造廠商的重點研發標的。  
 
II. 汽車用 HID 燈的介紹 
(A) 汽車用 HID 燈與傳統燈管之比較 
高 強 度 氣 體 放 電 燈 (High-Intensity-Discharging 
lamps; HID lamps)具有高的光輸出效率、燈管壽命長、
演色性佳、聚光能力強等優點，在許多照明應用場合逐
漸取代傳統的光源。在 HID 燈管中，汽車用 HID 燈的
光譜是所有人造光源中最像太陽光，且在點亮瞬間就可
達到 80％ 的額定光輸出[1], [2]。市面上一般的汽車，
目前大部份都還是使用鹵素燈泡做為頭燈照明光源，其
發光原理則是藉由鹵素燈管中的鎢絲產生光與熱，燈絲
在長久的高熱溫度操作下，難保不會燒斷及損毀。然
而，填充氙氣的汽車用 HID 燈則是利用電流刺激氣體發
光，不會產生過高的溫度，只要燈管內的氙氣還沒有用
完，它便可一直正常發光，不容易損壞。一般高品質的
鹵素燈，最多也只能連續使用約 400 小時；而利用氣體
發光的汽車用 HID 燈管，最少都有 2500 小時的壽命，
足足高出五倍的產品壽命，且比傳統的鹵素燈穩定許多
[3], [4]。 
    目前車用的鹵素燈的功率約為 55W，而汽車用 HID
燈搭配電子安定器的穩定運作下，平均只需要供應 35W
的電力，可以節省了近一半的電力消耗[5]-[7]。鹵素燈
受限於鎢絲本身的材料熔點，一般 55W 的鹵素燈頂多產
生 3000~3200K 的色溫；若是改裝燈泡，藉由提高鎢絲
的電阻及功率，100W 的鹵素燈泡最多只能提升到
3400~3800K 的色溫。至於汽車用 HID 燈，發光原理是
  
 ILAMP (mA)
450
400
350
300
10 100 1000
kHz
14 16
22
25
32
36
40
44
48
54
64
70
94
125
130
150
290
 
圖3  汽車用HID燈音頻共振頻率分佈圖[13] 
 
為了避開音頻共振的現象，目前國內外的學者已提
出許多因應及抑制的方法，如下所示： 
(1) 超高頻弦波之驅動方式 
超高頻弦波驅動方式的切換頻率(大於 1 MHz)遠超
過燈管音頻共振發生的特徵頻率，因此，可避開音頻共
振現象 [14]。然而，此種驅動方式需特別考量電磁雜訊
干擾及切換損失過大造成低效率的問題。 
(2) 定頻控制之高頻弦波驅動方式 
若安定器的切換頻率設定在無音頻共振的頻帶時
(約為數 k 至數百 kHz 的頻率)，燈管的輸出弧光穩定，
無音頻共振現象的產生 [15]。然而，每支燈管或不同廠
牌相同瓦數的燈管無音頻共振的頻帶並不相同，定頻弦
波驅動方式的切換頻率需慎選，因而限制了此種方式的
應用範圍。 
(3) 頻率調變控制之高頻弦波驅動方式 
利用低頻調變波調變安定器中換流器的高頻切換
頻率，使得燈管電壓(電流)的振幅(功率)頻譜展開，在中
心切換頻率上的能量得以降低及分散，進而消除音頻共
振的現象[16], [17]。另外，藉由頻率調變控制方式的另
一項效益是能夠降低電磁干擾雜訊[18], [19]。 
(4) 高頻方波之驅動方式 
高頻方波驅動的電子安定器理想上同樣具有不隨
時間變化的固定的瞬時功率，因此，不會有音頻共振的
問題。然而，實際上完美的高頻方波型式的燈管電壓與
燈管電流不易在實務電路中產生，使得燈管的瞬時功率
並非固定值，造成音頻共振現象的發生。另外，此種驅
動方式的電路效率低[20]。 
(5) 低頻方波之驅動方式 
由於音頻共振現象發生在超過 1kHz 的切換頻率
中，採用低頻方波(切換頻率約為 100~500Hz)驅動方
式，其切換頻率遠低於燈管發生音頻共振的特徵頻率，
且方波型式的燈管電壓波形與方波型式的燈管電流波
形相乘得到的功率波形是不隨時間變化的固定瞬時功
率值，此種控制方式能有效避開音頻共振的現象[21]，
[22]。且目前市售的汽車用 HID 燈電子安定器大都採用
此種驅動方式。 
    音頻共振的頻率取決於幾何及物理特性上，所以不
容易找出不會發生音頻共振的頻率。因此本計畫擬採用
低頻方波之驅動方式，提供低頻方波電壓/電流至汽車用
HID 燈，因此，燈管不分廠牌都可適用此驅動方式，藉
以避開音頻共振的現象。 
 
III. 汽車用 HID 燈之現今技術及作法 
   目前國內外有關汽車用HID燈的文獻中，大多琢磨在
點燈電路架構、燈管特性、燈管控制方面做深入研究及
探討[23]-[29]。關於汽車用HID燈之電子安定器現今的技
術中，第一種電路架構為返馳-全橋型電路，如圖4所示，
其前級為返馳式轉換器（Flyback Converter）做為直流/
直流升壓轉換器，而後級為全橋式換流器(Full-Bridge 
Inverter)提供低頻方波電壓及電流給燈管[11]。此種架構
的優點為電路架構簡單且成本低，但需要較多的開關元
件。 
 
 
圖4  返馳-全橋型汽車用HID電子安定器 
 
由於車用電池電壓 VI一般為 12 伏特，汽車用 HID
燈點亮時為了使效率提高，因此衍生出第二種電路架構
為 BIFRED（Boost Integrated with Flyback Rectifier 
DC-DC Converter）-全橋型安定器，如圖 5 所示，其前
級為 BIFRED 轉換器，做為直流/直流轉換器；後級為全
橋式換流器提供低頻方波電壓及電流給燈管[29]。由於
汽車用 HID 燈點亮瞬間時，需較高電壓且需提供一個較
大的電流給燈管，使其可以穩定操作，如果使用 BIFRED 
做為直流/直流升壓轉換器，必須加大變壓器的匝數比，
雖然會使得電壓上升，但卻也使得電流下降，而容易發
生無法順利點亮燈管的情形，且此種架構需要較多的功
率開關。 
 
 
圖 5  BIFRED-全橋型汽車用 HID 燈電子安定器 
 
國外有位學者提出之第三種電路架構為昇壓共振
(Boost Resonant)-全橋型安定器，如圖 6 所示，其前級為
昇壓共振式電路做為直流/直流轉換器，而後級為全橋式
換流器提供低頻方波電壓及電流給燈管[13]。此種架構
雖然功率開關可以達到零電壓切換的優點，而使得整體
電路效率提高，但共振槽路設計方式繁雜，且共振電容
與共振電感容易受到燈管特性影響而造成設計與選用
困難。 
 
圖 6  昇壓共振-全橋型汽車用 HID 燈電子安定器 
  
 
(a) 工作模式一(t0 ~ t1) 
 
 
(b) 工作模式二(t1 ~ t2) 
 
 
(c) 工作模式三(t2 ~ t3) 
 
圖10  前級雙輸出返馳式轉換器工作模式分析圖 
 
 
圖 11  前級雙輸出返馳式轉換器各點重要波形 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
+
-
S1
S2
Lbuck
CCo1
V
Co2
DS1
DS2
+
-
-
+
DC
RLamp
 
圖 16  後級半橋式換流器工作模式三 
 
(4) 工作模式四(t4~t5)： 
此階段中功率開關S1截止，S2導通，電路狀態如圖
17所示。由於電路特性，可將其視為兩個降壓型轉換器
的結合，輸入電壓VDC對電感Lbuck作儲能的動作，而跨於
電容Co1及Co2的電壓為直流輸入電源VDC的一半，藍色路
徑為電流的流過路徑。 
 
 
圖 17  後級半橋式換流器工作模式四 
 
電感Lbuck電壓方程式為： 
/ 2
buckL DC C
v V V                              (10) 
電感Lbuck電流方程式為： 
2
2buck
DC C
L
buck
V V
i
L
                              (11)                                       
(5) 工作模式五(t5~t6)： 
   此階段中功率開關S2截止，而功率開關的本質二極體
DS1導通，形成一個迴路，電感上的能量經由二極體DS1
提供給負載RLamp，電路狀態如圖18所示，藍色路徑為電
流的流過路徑，此模式等同於模式二。 
 
 
 
圖 18  後級半橋式換流器工作模式五 
 
 
 
 
電感Lbuck電壓方程式為： 
 / 2
buckL DC C
v V V                             (12) 
電感Lbuck電流方程式為： 
2
2buck
DC C
L
buck
V V
i
L
                                 (13) 
 (6) 工作模式六(t6~t7)： 
此階段中功率開關S1與S2持續截止，電感Lbuck上沒有
任何電流通過，iLbuck=0，此時電容C提供燈管RLamp能量，
VRlamp=-VC，電路狀態如圖19所示，藍色路徑為電流的流
過路徑。 
 
 
圖 19  後級半橋式換流器工作模式六 
 
V. 實測結果與討論 
    本計畫完成低頻方波驅動之汽車用 35 W HID 燈電
子安定器的雛型電路的製作與測試，以及波形的量測。
表 2為本計畫製作之汽車用HID燈電子安定器的電路參
數與元件值。圖 21 為前級具雙輸出繞組與串接倍壓電
路之返馳式轉換器的輸出電壓 VDC，由波形可得知，前
級轉換器電路可將 12V 的汽車電池升到直流高電壓
400V。圖 22 為電感電流 iLbuck 實測波形與其展開的波
形，由展開圖形中得知磁化電感 Lm操作在不連續導通模
式。圖 23 為汽車用 HID 燈管電壓 vlamp與電流 ilamp的實
測波形，且燈管電壓與電流的有效值分別為 90 V 與 0.38 
A。圖 24 與圖 25 分別為不同輸入電壓下所量測的燈管
輸出功率曲線圖以及整體電路效率曲線圖，由圖中得
知，當輸入電壓的變動範圍從 10.5 V 至 16.5 V，燈管功
率的變化值維持在額定功率 35W±3%的範圍內，且整體
電路效率約在 70%~80%。圖 26 與圖 27 分別為汽車用
HID 燈的點亮與弧光放電的照片。 
 
VI. 結論 
本計畫提出的兩級式汽車用 HID 燈電子安定器由
前級具雙輸出繞組與串接倍壓功能的返馳式直流-直流
轉換器與後級高頻結合低頻方波切換之半橋式直流-交
流換流器所組成，其中前級的直流-直流轉換器可將 12 V
車用電池升高至直流高電壓 400 V 以提供後級電路使
用，且具有限定輸出功率的控制功能。後級的直流-交流
換流器，可提供低頻方波電源給汽車用 HID 燈，以避開
音頻共振的問題。本計畫已完成 35W 車用 HID 燈電子
安定器的雛型電路，且經實測結果可驗證本計畫提出之
電路的可行性。 
 
  
 
圖 26  汽車用 HID 燈點亮照片 
 
 
 
 
圖 27  汽車用 HID 燈放電弧光的照片 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
參考文獻 
 
[1] 莫清賢、林再福、林憲男，“最像日光的燈：氙燈”，電力電子
技術雙月刊，1999 年四月，pp.19-25。 
[2] 謝冠群，林長華，于本中，“電光源與安定器之發展演進”，能
源節約技術報導，1997 年 12 月，pp.4-19 。 
[3] PHILIPS, “Product Catalog”, 2000. 
[4] OSRAM, “Product Catalog”, 2000. 
[5] 吳財福，劉原全，“實現綠色照明之高性能安定器介紹”，能源
節約技術報導，1998 年 9 月，pp.25-34 。 
[6] 徐文彬、鄭竣安、梁從主，“HID 燈之應用技術”，電機月刊，
第十二卷 2002 年五月，pp.136-146。 
[7] S. Ben-Yaakov, M. Gulko, and A. Giter, “The simple electronic 
ballast for HID lamps,” in Proc. IEEE APEC’96, pp. 634-640 
[8] 張書銘，“車用氙燈驅動器研製”，國立中正大學碩士論文，2004
年。 
[9] 賴文上，“汽車氙燈電子式安定器研製”，國立成功大學碩士論
文，2004 年。 
[10] 林再福、林憲男、莫清賢、李清然，“氙燈電子安定器設計”，
第十九屆電力工程研討會，1998 年，pp.131-136。 
[11] Y. X. Hu, “Analysis and design of high-intensity-discharge lamp 
ballast for automotive headlamp,” Master thesis, Virginia 
Polytechnic Institute and State University, 2001. 
[12] 梁從主，“經濟部工業局九十年度工業技術人才培訓計畫講
義，” 專案計畫名稱：電機工業人才培訓計畫，課程名稱：HID
電子式安定器設計與研製，2001 年八月。 
[13] A. Reatti, “Low-cost high power-density electronic ballast or 
automotive HID lamp,” IEEE Trans. Power Electron., vol.15, no.2, 
pp. 361-368, March 2000. 
[14] M. Gulko and S. Ben-Yaakov, “A MHz electronic ballast for 
automotive-type HID lamps,” in Proc. IEEE PESC’97, pp. 39-45. 
[15] C. A. Cheng, T. J. Liang, C. M. Chuang, and J. F. Chen, “A high 
power factor electronic ballast of projector lamps with variable 
frequency control,” in Proc. IEEE PESC’02, pp. 213-217. 
[16] L. Laskai, P. Enjeti, and I. J Pitel, “White noise modulation of 
high frequency high-intensity discharge lamps ballast,” IEEE 
Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 34, pp. 597-604, May/June 1998. 
[17] H. J. Faehnrich and E. Rasch, “Electronic ballast for metal halide 
lamps,” J. Illum. Eng. Soc., pp. 131-140, Summer 1988. 
[18] S. Johnson and R. Zane, “Custom spectral shaping for EMI 
reduction in high-frequency inverters and ballasts,” IEEE Trans. 
Power Electron., vol. 20, no. 6, pp. 1499-1505, Nov. 2005. 
[19] K. K. Tse, H. S-H. Chung, S.Y. Ron Hui and H. C. So,”A 
comparative study of carrier-frequency modulation techniques for 
conducted EMI suppression in PWM converters,” IEEE Trans. Ind. 
Electron., vol. 49, no. 3, pp. 618-627, Jun. 2002. 
[20] M. Ponce, A. Lopez, J. Correa, J. Arau and J. M. Alonso, 
“Electronic ballast for HID lamps with high frequency square 
waveform to avoid acoustic resonances,” in Proc. IEEE APEC’01, 
pp. 658–663, 2001. 
[21] M. Shen, Z. Qian, and F. Z. Peng, “A novel two-stage acoustic 
resonance free electronic ballast for HID lamps,” in Proc. IEEE 
IAS’02, pp. 1869-1874, 2002. 
[22] J. Melis and O. Vila-Masot, “Low frequency square wave 
electronic ballast for gas discharge lamps,” U. S. Patent 5,428,268, 
27 June, 1995. 
[23] S. B.-Yaakov, M. Gulko and A. Giter, “The simplest electronic 
ballast for HID lamps,” in Proc. IEEE APEC’96, pp.634-640, 
1996. 
[24] 林卓賢，“汽車氙燈之電子安定器設計”，交通大學電機與控制
工程學系碩士論文，2003。 
[25] F. Lin, C. S. Moo and Y. C. Hsieh, “An electronic gear for 
short-arc xenon lamps,” in Proc. IEEE PCC’02, pp.1468 -1472, 
2002. 
[26] C. S. Moo, T. F. Lin, and Y. C. Chuang, “Designing an ignitor for 
short-arc xenon lamp,” in Proc. IEEE IAS’99, pp.612-617, 1999. 
[27] 陳竹師，“HID 光源在汽車頭燈上之應用”，電力電子技術雙月
刊，1999 年四月，pp.38-48。 
[28] M. A. Johnston and R. W. Erickson, “Reduction of voltage stress 
in the full bridge BIBRED by duty ratio and phase shift control,” 
in Proc. IEEE APEC’94, pp. 849-855, 1994. 
[29] M. J. Willers, M. G. Egan, S. Daly, and J. M. D. Murphy, 
“Analysis and design of a practical 
discontinuous-conduction-mode BIFRED converter,” IEEE Trans. 
Ind. Eng., vol. 46, no. 4, pp. 724-733, 1999. 
  
A Digitally Wireless Dimmable Lighting System 
for Two-Area Fluorescent Lamps 
 
Chun-An Cheng  Hung-Liang Cheng  Kun-Jheng Lin  Kuan-Lin Chu  Chun-Hsien Yen 
 
Department of Electrical Engineering, I-Shou University 
Kaohsiung County, Taiwan, R. O. C. 
E-mail: cacheng@isu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract-- The digitally dimming control method is suitable for 
lighting application in buildings, offices, conference rooms and 
classrooms, and it features remote control capability.  The 
conventional RS-232-based digitally dimmable lighting system 
for two-area fluorescent lamps consists of two power factor 
correctors and two half-bridge resonant inverters as the main 
circuit, and a microcontroller-based driver and two 
drivers/dimmers for two inverters.  The drawbacks of the 
conventional lighting system are limited transmission length 
and transmission speed, and each lighting area needs its own 
driver and dimmer, which results in a large number of circuit 
components and low cost-effectiveness for application of 
multi-area lighting control for fluorescent lamps. 
Therefore, this paper presents a digitally wireless dimmable 
lighting system for fluorescent lamps.  The main purpose of 
this paper is to utilize USB-based protocol instead of the 
RS-232-based one and increase dimming controlled nodes 
(devices) with the use of ZigBee transmission interface, which is 
a new wireless communication technology.  In addition, a 
micro-controller is adopted to fulfill remote wireless dimming 
controlled electronic lighting system for two area fluorescent 
lamps.  A prototypical electronic lighting system has been 
developed to drive a 32W-rated (T8-type) fluorescent lamp for 
each area with the use of a LabVIEW man-machine interface 
software to carry out the remote dimming control.  The 
experimental results demonstrate the functionality of the 
presented electronic lighting system. 
Keywords-digitally dimming control, fluorescent lamps, lighting 
systems, power factor 
I. INTRODUCTION 
With the advancement of civilization and technology, 
human life has changed dramatically and the demand of 
indoor and outdoor lighting at night has increased.  The 
increase of requirements for lighting also means an increase 
in demand for energy resources.  However, a chronic 
shortage of energy worldwide is occurring.  Generally 
speaking, in terms of power distribution, the energy 
consumed annually for lighting is about 20% of the total 
required energy [1]-[3].  A cost-effective high-efficiency 
lighting system is thus required to benefit the human life in 
terms of environmental protection, energy saving and carbon 
reduction. 
As regards the energy used for lighting, most of the energy 
wastes are produced by human negligence or by providing 
excessive illumination.  For this reason, the purpose of this 
paper is to develop and implement a digitally wireless 
dimming controlled lighting system for fluorescent lamps 
used in multi-area lighting applications.  The features of the 
proposed digitally wireless dimmable lighting system for 
fluorescent lamps are energy-saving, convenience and 
cost-effectiveness compared with the conventional one. 
II. TRADITIONAL ANALOG AND DIGITAL DIMMABLE 
LIGHTING SYSTEM 
A.  Traditional analog dimmable lighting system for 
fluorescent lamps 
The traditional analog dimmable lighting system for 
two-area fluorescent lamps is shown in Fig. 1, which is 
composed of two EMI filters, two full-wave rectifiers, two 
power factor correction circuits, two half-bridge resonant 
inverters, and two analog dimming controllers as well as two 
lamps [4].  
In Fig. 1, a 15-volt DC voltage is supplied to a resistor 
series connected with the variable resistor in order to obtain a 
dimmable voltage of 1 to 10 volt that feeds the half-bridge 
resonant inverter driver and dimming circuits in the 
traditional analog dimming control.  The dimming voltage 
needed to carry out the dimming control of the lighting 
system depends on different occasions.  However, the 
operation interface of the analog dimming control is easy but 
not human-intuitive, and a separate analog dimming 
controller is required for each fluorescent lamp in the 
traditional analog lighting system in order to dim the output 
illumination.  In addition, the traditional analog dimming 
controlled lighting system is not able to join the parts of the 
group with a flexible design of lighting or for the planning of 
situational lighting. 
In general, the traditional lighting system with dimming 
capabilities mostly utilizes analog dimmer in a controlled 
manner; such a dimming controlled lighting system requires 
a large number of components.  In addition, the mode of 
operation is restricted and is unable to meet the demand in 
different lighting situations.  Therefore, a digitally 
dimmable lighting system has been developed and 
established to replace the conventional analog one. 
B.  Introduction of digital dimming control of a lighting 
system 
Basically, the use of dimming control circuit is to regulate 
the lamp power by means of controlling the lamp voltage or 
current in order to vary the lamp output power/illumination.  
Generally dimming control method can be divided into four 
kinds of manner: (a) amplitude variation of DC-linked bus 
voltage; (b) variable frequency of lamp voltage/current; (c) 
variable phase angle of input voltage and current in the 
resonant tank; (d) pulse-width modulation of lamp 
voltage/current.  
The commonly used dimming control in the commercial 
electronic ballast for fluorescent lamps is variable frequency 
of lamp voltage and current. 
   
Referring to Fig. 4, when the proposed lighting system 
obtains “lamp OK” signal and gets ready for dimming 
process feedback from the two-area fluorescent lamps 
through ZigBee wireless communication, the user sends a 
digitally dimming controlled command via a personal 
computer (PC) through the USB bridge converter and optical 
coupler to the micro-controller.  The micro-controller 
decodes the dimming command sent by the user and outputs 
the “driving signal” to the two half-bridge resonant inverters, 
and then preheats the two-area fluorescent lamps and obtains 
“preheating feedback signal” and gets ready for igniting 
process. 
After igniting two-area fluorescent lamps, the 
micro-controller outputs “dimming controlled signal” to two 
half-bridge resonant inverter via ZigBee interface and 
receives “dimming feedback signal” for achieving the 
required dimming levels from the two-area fluorescent 
lamps. 
If the lamp is open or faulty, the lamp fault signal will be 
sent to the user through ZigBee wireless communication and 
via a PC, and the system will temporarily cease the digital 
dimming and operation of the lighting system until the lamp 
is functional. 
B.  Descriptions of the utilized dimming control method 
In Fig. 4, users enter lamp control commands by using the 
PC keyboard through the USB communication interface.  
Therefore, the frequency of the output pulse width 
modulation (PWM) signal from the micro-controller is 
varied and can be transferred via ZigBee wireless 
communication to the appropriate half-bridge inverter driver 
best suited to that particular switching frequency, thus 
allowing the respective half-bridge resonant inverter to 
preheat, light up, and provide rated power to the correct 
fluorescent lamp. 
Fig. 5 depicts the relations between the voltage gain and 
switching frequency in the half-bridge resonant inverter.  
There are two curves in Fig. 5. One is with high quality 
factor in the resonant inverter under the light-up transient 
period, for which the natural resonant frequency is fo,start; the 
other is with low-quality factor in the resonant inverter under 
steady-state operation of the lamps, for which the natural 
resonant frequency is fo,steady-state. 
Universal
Input
AC Voltage
85~265V
EMI
Filter
Full-Bridge
Rectifier
Half-Bridge
Resonant
 Inverter I
PC
Keyboard
Optic
Coupler
Micro-
controller
ZigBee
Wireless
Coordinator
3
4
5
6
Digitally  
Dimming 
Control Signal
1
2
Fluorescent Lamp of 
Area  II
32W
32W
1
2
3
4
5
6
Dimming Controlled 
Signal
Lamp OK Signal
Driving Signal
Preheating Feedback 
Signal
Dimming Feedback 
Signal
Lamp Fault Signal
USB
Communication
3
4
5
6
Power
Factor
Corrector
ZigBee
Wireless
Node #1
CDC
VDC
USB 
Bridge 
Converter
Fluorescent Lamp of 
Area  I
Half-Bridge
Resonant
 Inverter II
ZigBee
Wireless
Node #2
Half-Bridge
Inverter 
Driver II
Half-Bridge
Inverter 
Driver I
Fig. 4.  The proposed digitally wireless dimmable lighting system for 
fluorescent lamps. 
Th
e 
vo
lta
ge
 g
ai
n 
of
 re
so
na
nc
e 
in
ve
rte
r 
 
Fig. 5.  The relations between the voltage gain and switching frequency in 
the half-bridge resonant inverter. 
Firstly, during the preheating period, the frequency of 
output PWM signal from the micro-controller is tuned to be 
the preheat frequency fs,ph (75 kHz).  Then, during the 
igniting transient, the frequency of output PWM signal is 
tuned to be start-up frequency fs,start (70 kHz).  After 
ignition, in steady-state situation, the frequency of output 
PWM signal is tuned to be rated lamp power frequency fs, 
100% (50 kHz). 
In addition, dimming level of 5%~100% rated lamp power 
in the proposed digitally wireless dimming controlled 
lighting system is implemented in this paper. 
IV. SYSTEM VERIFICATIONS AND MEASURED RESULTS 
This paper used the T8-type 32W fluorescent lamps as the 
test lamps for the two regions (one lamp for each area).  
The prototype of the USB-based digitally wireless dimmable 
lighting system for two-area fluorescent lamps has been built 
and tested.  Fig. 6 presents the main circuit of the proposed 
lighting system, which consists of a boost-type power factor 
corrector with universal AC input voltage (85~265V) as 
1st-stage AC-DC converter and a half-bridge series-resonant 
parallel-loaded inverter as 2nd-stage DC-AC converter.  
Table I shows the key components used in the boost PFC 
converter and the half-bridge series-resonant parallel-loaded 
inverter.  In addition, the user-friendly interface by the use 
of the LabVIEW software (from National Instruments) is 
established in order to indicate/monitor the dimming level 
and lamp output power for each lighting area.  Fig. 7 
presents the measured respective lamp voltage and current 
waveforms for area I (Channel 1 and 2) and area II (Channel 
3 and 4) fluorescent lamps during light-up transient.  The 
measured preheating times for area I and area II fluorescent 
lamps are about 1.4 seconds and 1.2 seconds, respectively. 
Fig. 8 shows that fluorescent lamps of area I and area II 
are both operated at rated lamp power.  Fig. 8(a) displays 
the measured user-friendly interface, and the digital dimming 
levels for both lamps are 255; Fig. 8(b) is the measured lamp 
voltages of two areas; Fig. 8(c) shows the measured diagram 
of lighting in the two area lamps; Fig. 8(d) shows the photo 
of lighting in the two areas by a digital camera. 
Fig. 9 shows that fluorescent lamp of area I is operated at 
80% rated power and lamp of area II is operated at 20% rated  
   
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
Fig. 8  Lamps of area I and area II are both operated at rated power: (a) 
diagram of man-machine-interface display: (b) measured duty ratio of PWM 
control signal (top: area I; bottom: area II); (c) measured lamp voltage (top: 
area I, bottom: area II; (d) photo of lighting in the two area lamps (left: area 
I, right: area II). 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
Fig. 9  Lamp of area I is operated at 80% rated power and lamp of area II is 
operated at 20% rated power: (a) diagram of man-machine-interface display; 
(b) measured duty ratio of PWM control signal (top: area I; bottom: area II); 
(c) measured lamp voltage (top: area I, bottom: area II); (d) photo of lighting 
in the two area lamps (left: area I, right: area II). 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
 
 一、 參加 IEEE TENCON 2010 國際研討會心得報告 
IEEE TENCON 2010 為電力電子領域的年度盛會，今年主辦地點在日本福岡的國際會議
中心(Fukuoka International Congress Center)舉行，會議中收錄許多相關的技術論文，內容涵蓋
層面廣泛，包含有：(1)電力電子轉換器技術 (2)電力系統技術 (3)能源與轉換技術 (4)電機機
械，致動器以及感測器技術 (5)控制系統相關技術 (6)電力電子與驅動應用在家庭技術 (7)通
訊系統相關技術 等研究領域，由各領域學有專長的科技產業的專家及學術界的學者發表論文
以及和與會的來賓做技術研討與交流。大會在四天的研討會當中的議程安排相當好，有口頭
報告及海報報告兩種場次，能夠讓與會的專家學者們互相交流。 
在議程第二天早上十點的第一梯次海報報告中，結識了一位九州大學的教授 Professor 
Kunihiro KAMATAKI，他之前來過台灣參加國際研討會，對台灣的印象挺好的，因此除了和
他交流他發表的有關通訊元件相關技術外，也力邀 KAMATAKI 教授下回有機會來義守大學
參訪及進行專題演講，還有帶家人們順道至義大世界購物中心及遊樂園旅遊。在另一邊的海
報報告中，結識了同樣來自台灣的教授，包含有國立台灣師範大學應用電子科技學系的黃政
吉教授，國立中興大學電機系的范志鵬教授，國立中央大學通訊系的陳彥文教授，以及建國
科技大學電子系的陳源彬教授等人，除了與各位教授發表的有關通訊及光電與電力電子領域
的技術進行交流討論外，並於會後一同結伴參加大會在 Hakata Riverain “Eeny Meeny Miny 
Mo＂五樓的餐廳精心安排的 Banquet。 
在議程第三天早上十點的第二梯次海報報告中，圖 1 為筆者於會場與發表的論文海報留
影。在筆者講述發表的論文時，來自澳洲的 Dr. Horace L. King 是第一位來審視筆者製作的海
報的學者，並和筆者進行很愉快的討論，且讚賞論文的內容很有實用性。另一位來自日本
Tsukuba 大學的學者 Shinichi Tsujimura 接著和筆者討論無線調光控制電路如何實現，如何控
制多區域的螢光燈管，以及和筆者討論實測的波形。此外，筆者利用空檔時間，到隔壁去觀
摩其他學者發表的海報論文，並和國立中山大學電機系的莫清賢教授請教有關 HID 燈及 LED
燈電子照明驅動電路的研發技術與設計考量，並且獲益良多。圖 2 為在研討會舉辦的會場-
福岡國際會議場前面與中山大學的莫教授及其電機所碩士班二年級研究生楊雯晴一同合影。
此外，結識一位來自日本九州電力公司的研究員 Dr. Hidemi Hayashi，且和他請教有關九州地
區太陽能發電的設置情形，以及獲得最新的利用網路遠端監控各太陽能板的發電量的技術資
訊。 
Paper No.: D_12_1012 
Paper Title: A Novel Single‐Stage Cost‐Effective Electronic Ballast for HID Lamps with High 
Power Factor 
Presentation Category: Oral 
 
Dear Dr. Chun‐An Cheng, 
 
On behalf of the Technical Program Committee, we are pleased to inform you that your 
paper has been accepted for oral presentation at ICPE2011‐ECCE Asia which will be held in 
Jeju, Korea from May 30 to June 3, 2011. 
 
Based on the reviewers’ comments and your preference, your paper may be assigned to an 
oral session. Please refer to the following reviewer’s comments when you write a final 
manuscript. 
 
* Reviewer 1’s comment This  paper  proposes  the  single‐stage  circuit  integrating  a 
bridgeless  PFC  circuit  with  a  half‐bridge  inverter.  but,  more 
detailed  explaination  on  circuit  operation  is  required.  The 
reviewer would  like  to ask  the  followings. 1)What  is  the  control 
target  of  this  HID  balast?  2)How  is  the  duty  cycle  controlled? 
3)What  is  the  input  voltage  range?  Is  there  any  link  voltage 
problem?  4)  I  wonder  that  around  zero‐crossing  region  the 
inverter action would not operate properly  if  the boost  inductor 
current  is not  larger than the  inverter curret since only one gate 
signal is applied as shown in Fig.6. 
* Reviewer 2’s comment The digest presents useful simulation and experimental results of 
a proposed electronic ballast for HID lamps with high pf. 
* Reviewer 3’s comment Good! I wish you success!Oral 
* Reviewer 4’s comment 0 
* Reviewer 5’s comment 0 
(*Presentation Category can be changed due to unexpected circumstances by the Technical 
Program Committee.) 
 
Please find the details including final manuscript submission, registration and hotel 
reservation.   
 
1. The deadline of final manuscript submission is April 8th, 2011. 
2. The template for final manuscript as well as advanced program and presentation 
A Novel Single-Stage High Power LEDs Driver 
Chun-An Cheng, Member, IEEE, Fu-Li Yang, Chen-Wei Ku and Chun-Hsien Yen 
Power Electronics Lab, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, 
 I-Shou University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-mail: cacheng@isu.edu.tw 
  
Abstract --The conventional two-stage driver for high-power 
light-emitting-diodes (LEDs) is composed of a 
power-factor-correction (PFC) converter with a buck 
converter or a flyback converter for adjusting the 
voltage/current for supplying LEDs.  However, large numbers 
of circuit components are required and the total efficiency is 
limited due to two-stage power conversion.  This paper 
proposes a single-stage dimmable driver for high-power-rated 
LEDs.  The presented circuit combines a buck-boost PFC 
converter with a flyback converter into a single-stage 
power-conversion circuit.  The proposed driver offers high 
power factor, high efficiency, cost-effectiveness and a 
constant-output-voltage control scheme.  Finally, a prototype 
driver is developed and tested in order to supply 100W LEDs 
with universal utility-line input voltages.  Operational 
analysis, design equations, a design example, and experimental 
results demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed circuit. 
 
Index Terms-- Converter, Driver, LEDs, Power Factor 
Correction 
 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Light-emitting-diodes (LEDs) are attractive solid-state 
lighting sources nowadays.  LEDs are different from 
traditional incandescent lighting sources, which used 
filaments to make heat radiation, and fluorescent lamps, 
which used gaseous discharging.  The favorable features of 
LED lighting sources are their compact size, long lifetime, 
energy savings, improved lighting efficiency, good color 
rendering, lack of mercury, non-polluting quality, and 
harmlessness to our environment [1]-[3].  Moreover, they 
include almost all visible light and various color 
temperatures.  Because of the many superior characteristics 
of LEDs, they are suitable for commercial lighting, 
background lighting, displays and decorative lighting 
applications [4], [5].  An LED has a long lifetime 
(typically more than 20,000 hours) and low maintenance 
costs.  The lighting applications of LEDs in our daily lives 
are closely related and they have been the main trends of 
modern lighting [6]-[12]. 
The conventional two-stage non-isolated power driver for 
high-power LEDs drawing from input utility-line voltage is 
shown in Fig. 1; it is composed of a commonly used boost 
converter as the first stage (including filter inductor Lf and 
capacitor Cf, full-bridge rectified diodes D1~D4, a boost 
inductor Lb, a power switch S1, a power diode Db, a 
DC-linked capacitor Cdc) for power factor correction (PFC), 
and a buck converter as the second stage (including a input 
capacitor Cdc, a power switch S2, a power diode Dbuck, an 
inductor Lbuck, an output capacitor Co along with LEDs) for 
adjusting output voltage and current.   
Fig. 2 depicts a conventional two-stage isolated power 
driver for high-power LEDs drawing from input utility-line 
voltage; this one consists of a boost PFC converter as the 
first stage and a flyback converter as the second stage 
(including input capacitor Cdc, power switch S2,  
transformer T, power diode Df,  output capacitor Co, and 
the LEDs) for adjusting output voltage/current with isolation.  
The advantages of the boost converter utilized in the 
conventional non-isolated and isolated power driver are its 
simple topology, non-floating power switch, and 
easy-to-design driver circuit.  In addition, the inductor 
current is equal to the output current.  However, the output 
voltage of the capacitor Cdc is high (typically 380V~400V), 
and the voltage stresses of power diode Db and main power 
switch S1 are relatively high.   
Fig. 3 shows another two-stage isolated power driver for 
high-power LEDs drawing from input utility-line voltage; 
this version consists of a buck-boost converter as the first 
stage for PFC and a flyback converter as the second stage 
for adjusting output voltage/current with isolation.  In 
addition, large numbers of circuit components are required 
and the total efficiency is limited due to the 
above-mentioned two-stage power conversion, as shown in 
Fig. 1 through Fig. 3. 
In response to these challenges, this paper develops a 
single-stage power driver for high-power LEDs with high 
power factor, high efficiency, reduced voltage stress on the 
power switch, cost-effectiveness, ability to be dimmed, and 
constant voltage control scheme.  Design guidelines, a 
design example, and experimental results for a prototype 
power driver for 100W LEDs drawing from universal 
utility-line voltages are demonstrated. 
 
Fig. 1.  The conventional two-stage non-isolated power driver for LEDs. 
Thus, the sinusoidal input voltage can be considered to be 
constant for each switching period. 
The operation modes and principal switching waveforms 
for the proposed single-stage LED driver are shown in Fig. 
5 and Fig. 6, respectively. 
Mode 1 (t0~t1) - [Fig. 5(a)]: When the switch Sb is turned on 
at t0, the absolute value of the average rectified voltage |Vrec| 
is applied to the magnetic inductance Lm, and the 
magnetizing current ILm linearly increases.  Since the 
buck-boost-flyback converter is designed to operate in 
boundary-conduction mode (BCM) for achieving high 
power factor (HPF), the magnetizing current linearly 
increases from zero, and can be expressed as 
   1 0recLm
m
V
i t t t
L
  ,                         (2) 
where Vrec=√2Vin-rms is the input rectified voltage. 
The diodes Db and Df are off due to being reverse-biased; 
therefore, no current flows through the windings Nb and Nf.  
The current ILm increases linearly to its peak value according 
to the following equation: 
,
rec
Lm pk s
m
V
I DT
L
 ,                            (3) 
where D is duty cycle of the switch Sb, and  Ts is the 
switching period 
In addition, capacitors Cf and Cb provide energy to the 
LEDs.  This mode finishes when switch Sb turns off. 
Mode 2 (t1~t2) - [Fig. 5(b)]: When Sb is turned off at t1, Db 
and Df turn on due to being forward-biased.  Capacitors Cb 
and Cf equally share the DC output voltage; that means 
VCb=VCf=VDC/2.  Thus, the drain-to-source voltage VDS is 
given by  
2
DC
DS rec
Vv V  .                             (4) 
The magnetizing current iLm linearly decreases with a 
down-slope of VDC/2Lm, and can be expressed as  
   2 12DCLm m
Vi t t t
L
  .                         (5) 
The diode currents iDb and iDf deliver energy to the 
capacitors Cb and Cf as well as LEDs during the off-time 
interval. This mode finishes when power switch Sb turns on 
again at time interval t2. 
 
 
IV. DESIGN GUIDELINES OF KEY COMPONENTS 
A.  Design Equation of Magnetic Inductor Lm 
Fig. 8 shows the illustrated waveform for the magnetic 
inductor current iLm under the control scheme that has 
constant Ton and variable TS.  The peak value of input 
current is given by 
,min ,min
2 2in out
AC pk
AC rms AC rms
P PI  
V V    ,             (6) 
  where VAC-rms,min is the minimum value of the input 
utility-line rms voltage; η is the estimated circuit efficiency, 
and the relationship between input power Pin and output 
power Pout is Pout=ηPin. 
 
LEDs
-
-
Sb
T1
Db
Cb
Cf
Df
Nb
Nf
Lm
+
+
VCb
VCf
|Vrec|
iLm
iDf
iDb
-
+
vLm
iDS-+
+
-
vDS
vGS
 
(a) Mode 1 
 
(b) Mode 2 
Fig. 6.  Operation modes of the proposed LEDs driver. 
 
Fig. 8. Illustrated waveform of magnetic inductor current iLm under constant 
Ton and variable TS control scheme.  
 
 
V. DESIGN EXAMPLE 
A prototype driver for supplying high-power-rated LEDs 
has been built and tested to meet the following 
specifications. 
A. Input Specifications 
1)  input utility-line voltage: vAC-rms = 85~265V 
2)  input utility-line frequency: fAC= 60Hz 
3)  minimum input voltage: vAC-rms,min = 85V 
4)  output power: Pout = 100W 
5)  output voltage: VDC = 200V 
output current: IDC = 0.5A  
7)  minimum switching frequency fsw-min: 10 kHz 
8)  maximum duty cycle Dmax: 0.5 
9)  estimated efficiency η:  90% 
B. Determining Peak Value of Input Current and 
Inductor Current 
According to (6) and (7), the peak value of input current 
Iin-pk and magnetic inductor current ILm-pk are respectively 
given by  
,min
2 2 100 1.85A
0.9 85
out
AC pk
AC rms
PI
V 
   , and         
AII pkACpkLm 7.385.122    .  
C. Determining the Magnetic Inductor Lm 
From (27), the magnetic inductor Lm can be determined 
by 
  
 
 
 
2
,min ,min
min ,min
2
2 2 sin 2
2 4 2
85 2 2 85 200
4681002 10 ( ) 4 2 85 200
0.9
in rms in rms AC DC
m
sw in in rms DC
V V f t V
L
f P V V
H
k


 
 
 
  
   
 
D. Determining the Turns-Ratio n 
Referring to (15), the turns-ratio n is given by 
 
 
 
max
,min max
1
1
2
1 0.5 200
1 0.66
2 85 0.5
f DC
b AC rms
N D V
n
N V D
  
    
. 
In addition, the turns-ratio n is selected as 1. 
 
VI.   EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
A prototype driver for supplying 100W LEDs (eight 
high-power-rated LEDs in series connection and rated 
power of 12.5 W for each LED) has been built and tested in 
this paper, and Table I displays the specifications of the 
utilized high-power-rated LEDs.  The key parameters in 
the proposed driver for high-power LEDs are presented in 
Table II.  The measured gate-driving signal vgs of power 
switch Sb, magnetic inductor current iLm and their zoomed-in 
waveforms are shown in Fig. 9.   
Fig. 10 depicts the measured output voltage VDC 
(approximately 200 V) and current IDC (about 0.5 A).  The 
measured input utility-line voltage (from 110 V-rms) and 
current are shown in Fig. 11.  Table III lists the measured 
input utility-line current harmonics, and compares them 
with the IEC 61000-3-2 Class C standards.  The measured 
power factor and total harmonic distortion (THD) are 0.98 
and 15%, respectively, as determined by utilizing a power 
analyzer.   
The measured output voltage, current waveforms and 
PWM control signals while dimming the LEDs under 10%, 
50%, 70%, and 100% rated output power are shown in Fig. 
12(a), Fig. 12(b), Fig. 12(c) and Fig. 12(d), respectively.   
Fig. 13 shows measured power factor and efficiency 
under universal input utility-line voltage (85 V~265 V).  
The measured efficiency of the presented ballast is 
approximately 90.5% at a utility-line rms voltage of 110 V.  
Moreover, the measured highest efficiency of 91.7% along 
with lowest power factor of 0.91 occurred at maximum 
utility-line rms voltage of 265 V; the measured lowest 
 
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
 
(d)  
Fig. 12.  Measured output voltage VDC, current IDC and PWM control 
signal Vdim while dimming the LEDs: (a) duty=10% (b) duty=30% (c) 
duty=60% (d) duty=100%; voltage (100V/div; 10V/div) and current 
(2A/div); Time: 5ms/div. 
PF
Efficiency
vac
(V)
Efficiency 
(%)PF
Fig. 13.  Measured power factor and efficiency of the present driver under 
universal input utility-line voltage. 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 14.  Photos of the prototype LED driver along with 8 
high-power-rated LEDs, taken with a digital camera (a) before lighting 8 
LEDs, and (b) after lighting 8 LEDs. 
 
 
 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of Taiwan (R. O. C.) under Grant 
NSC99-2628-E-214-002.  In addition, the authors would 
like to thank Bestec Power Electronics Co., Ltd., for their 
financial support in this project and Anteya Technology 
Corporation for providing the authors with high-power-rated 
LEDs and their heat dissipation modules made of aluminum. 
A Novel Single-Stage Cost-Effective Electronic 
Ballast for HID Lamps with High Power Factor 
 
Chun-An Cheng, Member, IEEE, Chen-Wei Ku 
Power Electronics Lab, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, I-Shou University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-mail: cacheng@isu.edu.tw  
 
Abstract-- High-intensity-discharge (HID) lamps are widely 
utilized in a variety of lighting circumstances that need high 
luminance.  This paper proposes a single-stage electronic 
ballast for HID lamps; the ballast offers power factor 
correction and is acoustic-resonance-free.  The presented HID 
lamp ballast integrates a discontinuous-conduction-mode 
(DCM) operated bridgeless power factor correction (PFC) 
converter for shaping the input utility-line current with a 
high/low-frequency square-wave-driven half-bridge inverter 
for supplying low-frequency square-wave sources to the HID 
lamp.  The features of the proposed ballast are high power 
factor, low total harmonic distortion (THD) of the input 
current, cost-effectiveness, and that it is free of acoustic 
resonance. This paper analyzes the operational modes, key 
design guidelines and experimental results of the proposed 
ballast for a 70W HID lamp operating with 110V-rms input 
utility-line voltage. 
Index Terms-- Electronic Ballast, High-Intensity-Discharge 
(HID) Lamps, Power Factor Correction 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Because of high lighting efficiency, good color 
rendering and long lamp life-time, high-intensity-discharge 
(HID) lamps have become an attractive lighting source for 
outdoor and indoor lighting circumstances, such as 
streetlights, stadiums, parks, buildings, shopping malls, 
supermarkets, projectors, and so on [1], [2].  Due to the 
negatively increased impedance characteristics that occur 
in the HID lamp, a ballast is required to generate 
sufficiently high voltage for igniting the HID lamp in the 
start-up transition and to supply rated lamp power during 
steady-state operation.  The electronic ballast for HID 
lamps is superior to the electromagnetic (EM) ballast in 
that it saves energy, and has smaller volume and lighter 
weight. 
In most lighting applications for HID lamps, the size of 
the lamp ballast circuit is an important factor and should be 
as small as possible.  The high-frequency-driven electronic 
ballast is widely adopted in gaseous discharging lamps, as 
it offers a compact and light-weight lamp-ballast system.  
However, HID lamps operated at high frequencies may 
cause acoustic resonance, which may result in an unstable 
discharging arc, flickers, extinguishing, or even worse, 
lamp damage and sometimes lamp explosion.  The 
common explanation for generating acoustic resonance is 
that the periodic power input from the discharging arc 
current causes gas-pressure fluctuations in the arc tube of 
the lamp.  If the power frequency has a certain relationship 
with the eigen frequency of the lamp, and the energy of 
that frequency exceeds a certain threshold value, a standing 
wave will occur in the tube, which causes this so-called 
acoustic resonance [3], [4].   Avoiding acoustic resonance 
has become one of the key issues for researchers working 
on electronic HID lamps ballasts.  In order to 
eliminate/avoid the acoustic-resonance problems in HID 
lamps, several kinds of ballast have been presented in the 
literature; these are introduced as follows. 
1) HID lamp ballast driven by low-frequency sine-wave 
sources [5]:  Providing low-frequency sine-wave 
sources (usually the same as the utility-line 
frequency) for HID lamps prevents acoustic 
resonance, this is the method commonly used in the 
electromagnetic ballast.  The drawbacks of this 
method are the large volume of the ballast, low 
circuit efficiency and poor PFC capability.   
2) HID lamp ballast driven by extra-high-frequency 
sine-wave sources [6]:  In this circuit, the ballast 
provides HID lamps with a very high-frequency 
(usually greater than 1 MHz) source, which is above 
the acoustic-resonance frequency range of HID 
lamps. The electromagnetic-interference (EMI) and 
switching loss problems caused by extra high-
frequency operations must be seriously considered, 
and the circuit topology must be carefully chosen to 
obtain high efficiency. 
3) HID lamp ballast driven by constant-frequency sine-
wave sources [7]:  The switching frequency of this 
kind of sine-wave source driven HID lamp ballast is 
determined at a specified frequency window that is 
free of acoustic resonance. Since the acoustic-
resonance frequency of HID lamps has a close 
relationship with both the geometric and the internal 
gaseous parameters as well as internal materials, the 
distribution of the acoustic-resonance frequency 
varies.  Therefore, it is difficult to find a frequency 
window that is consistently free of acoustic 
resonance for every lamp all the time. 
4) HID lamp ballast driven by variable-frequency sine-
wave sources [8]-[10]: This kind of HID lamp ballast 
is operated in a frequency-modulation (FM) manner 
and is acoustic-resonance-free.  This approach will 
expand the power spectrum of the lamp and lower 
the energy of the eigen frequency that supplies the 
lamp. Moreover, a valuable benefit of FM is that it 
reduces EMI noise in high-frequency-powered 
ballasts. 
                                 
 
synchronous square-wave one.  Thus, two low-frequency 
square-wave signals are generated through the 
complementary square-wave signal generator.  Then, high-
frequency square-wave signals that come from a PWM 
controller are combined with these low-frequency square-
wave signals through two AND logical gates for generating 
gate-driving signals Vgs1 and Vgs2. 
 
Fig. 4.  The proposed single-stage electronic HID lamp ballast. 
 
 
Fig. 5.  The proposed control circuit for the single-stage electronic ballast. 
  
In order to analyze the presented single-stage electronic 
HID lamp ballast, some assumptions are made, listed as 
follows. 
(a) All components utilized in the circuit are ideal. 
(b) The HID lamp resembles a resistive load in steady-
state operation. 
(c) The frequency of the power switches is much higher 
than that of the utility-line voltage, so during analysis 
the utility-line voltage can be treated as a constant 
value in each switching period. 
The input utility-line voltage vac is defined as: 
( ) sin 2AC m ACv t V f t ,                                               (1) 
where Vm is the input peak voltage, and fAC is the utility-
line frequency. 
The operational modes and principal waveforms are 
described as follows and as shown in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7, 
respectively. 
Mode 1 (t0≤t<t1):  The equivalent circuit of Mode 1 is 
shown in Fig. 6(a).  Power switch S1 turns on at t0.  The 
inductor LPFC is charged by the utility-line voltage through 
diode D1 and switch S1, and inductor current iLPFC is 
linearly increased. 
During this mode, iLPFC flows through LPFC, D1, S1 and 
the utility-line voltage.  The inductor Lbuck is charged by the 
DC-bus voltage, and the inductor current iLbuck is linearly 
increased.  The iLbuck flows through S1, Lbuck, and Cbuck 
along with lamp equivalent resistor RLAMP and Cdc1.  The 
voltage and current across inductor LPFC are given by: 
ACLPFC vtv )(  , and                                                         (2) 
PFC
AC
LPFC L
vti )(  .                                                             (3) 
The inductor voltage and current across Lbuck can be 
expressed as: 
lamp
DC
Lbuck v
Vtv 
2
)( , and                                            (4) 
t
L
vV
ti
buck
lampDC
Lbuck 2
2
)(
  ,                                              (5) 
  where VDC is the DC-bus voltage, and vlamp is the lamp 
voltage. 
In addition, capacitors Cdc1 and Cdc2 equally share the 
DC-bus voltage; that means VCdc1=VCdc2=VDC/2.  At t=t1, 
power switch S1 is off and Mode 1 ends.  Currents iLPFC 
and iLbuck reach their maximum values iLPFC-pk and iLbuck-pk, 
respectively, and can be respectively expressed as 
S
PFC
AC
LPFC DTL
Vi pk-
, and
                                                (6) 
S
buck
lampDC
pkLbuck DTL
vV
i
2
2  ,                                       (7) 
where Ts is the switching period of the power switch, and 
D is duty cycle. 
Mode 2 (t1≤t<t2):  This mode begins when S1 turns off at 
t1; its equivalent circuit is shown in Fig. 6(b).  The utility-
line voltage and inductor LPFC start discharging energy to 
capacitors Cdc1 and Cdc2 through diode D1 and body diode of 
S2, and iLPFC linearly decreases with a down slope of (vAC-
VDC)/LPFC.  The voltage and current of inductor LPFC are 
respectively given by 
DCACLPFC Vvtv )( , and                                              (8) 
t
L
Vvti
PFC
DCAC
LPFC
)(
 .                                                  (9) 
On the other hand, inductor Lbuck begins to provide 
energy to Cbuck, RLAMP and Cdc2 through the body diode of S2, 
and iLbuck linearly decreases with a down slope of 
(VDC/2+vlamp)/Lbuck.  The voltage and current of inductor 
Lbuck are respectively expressed as  
                                 
 
 
(h) Mode 8 
Fig. 6. (a - h). Operation modes of single-stage HID lamps ballast. 
vgs1
vgs2
iLPFC
iLbuck
vLbuck
ilamp
t0 t1 t2 t3 t4
vlamp
vLPFC
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
t
Mode 1 2 3 4
t5 t6 t7 t8
5 6 7 8
t9  
Fig. 7.  Principal waveforms for the proposed electronic HID lamp ballast. 
 
 
Fig. 8.  Illustrated waveforms for inductor current iLbuck and iLPFC both 
operating in discontinuous-conduction mode. 
III. DESIGN GUIDELINES 
A. Design Consideration of  Duty Cycle and DC-Bus 
Voltage  
Referring to Fig. 8, the relationship between toff1, toff2, 
and the switching period Ts are shown in the following 
inequalities: 
(a) 21 offoff tt   .                                                                (15) 
Substituting (15) with (12) and (13) yields 
lampDC
lampDC
ACDC
AC
vV
vV
vV
v
2
2

 .                                          (16) 
Rearranging (16), the first unequal equation is given by 
)(2 lampACDC vvV   , and                                            (17) 
(b) Soff TDt )1(1   .                                                      (18) 
Substituting (12) into (18) yields 
DD
vV
v
ACDC
AC  1 .                                                   (19) 
Rearranging (19), the second unequal equation is given by 
DC
AC
V
vD 1  .                                                                 (20)
                     
Moreover, the relationship between DC-bus voltage VDC 
and maximum input utility-line voltage Vm under different 
duty cycles D can be expressed by 
D
VV mDC  1  , and                                                          (21) 
(c)
 
Soff TDt )1(2 
.
                                                      (22) 
Substituting (13) into (22) yields 
2
1
2
DC lamp
DC lamp
V v
D D
V v
   .                                              (23) 
Rearranging (23), the third inequality is given by 
2
)12(  DVv DClamp
.
                                                   (24) 
By using the three inequalities shown in (17), (20), (24), 
Fig. 9 shows the design concept and relationships between 
duty cycle and DC-bus voltage at a Vm of 110√2 V. 
)(2 lampACDC vvV 
2
)12(  DVv DClamp
DC
AC
V
vD 1
 
Fig. 9.  Design concept and relationships between duty cycle and DC-bus 
voltage (Vm=110√2 V). 
                                 
 
D. Determining the Inductor LPFC 
From (27), inductor LPFC can be determined as 
 
2
2
2 ( )
500 0.5 110 2 515
2 36 0.8(110 2 500)
DC AC
PFC
S AC AC DC
V D vL
f i v V
H
k

 
  
.
 
E. Determining the Inductor Lbuck 
Using (29), the inductor Lbuck operating at BCM can be 
obtained by 
2
2
( 2 )
2 (2 )
(500 2 88) 500 0.5 1.04
2 0.8(2 88 500) 36
DC lamp DC
buck
lamp lamp DC S
V v V D
L
i v V f
mH
k
 
       
. 
Lbuck is selected as 900 μH in order to operate at DCM 
and meet the design requirements. 
F. Determining the Capacitor Cbuck 
According to (32), inductor Cbuck can be determined as 
F
k
fiL
iD
C
slampbuck
lamp
buck
07.1
)36(04.0109008
8.0)5.01(
8
)1(
26
2





. 
In addition, Cbuck is selected as 1μF. 
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
A prototype ballast for a 70W HID lamp has been built 
and tested.  The key components of the proposed ballast are 
listed in Table I.  The parameters used in the simulated 
ballast circuit, by utilizing IsSpice circuit simulated 
software, are the same as the experimental ones.  
The measured gate-driving signals of the two power 
switches are shown in Fig. 11.  The measured inductor 
current waveforms iLPFC and iLbuck as well as their zoomed-
in waveforms are shown in Fig. 12.  In addition, both iLPFC 
and iLbuck are designed to operate at DCM, and the down 
slope of iLPFC is larger than that of iLbuck in the discharging 
energy period.  Fig. 13 displays the measured lamp voltage 
and current waveforms in steady-state periods.  The 
measured root-mean-square (rms) values of lamp voltage 
and current are 88.2 V and 0.8 A, respectively. Measured 
input utility-line voltage and current waveforms are 
displayed by Fig. 14. 
Fig. 15 presents the measured input utility-line current 
harmonics at different harmonic orders, and compares them 
with IEC 61000-3-2 Class C standards.  The measured 
power factor and THD are 0.99 and 12%, respectively.  
Moreover, the efficiency of the presented single-stage HID 
lamp ballast is 90.2%. 
TABLE I. 
KEY COMPONENTS OF THE PRESENTED SINGLE-STAGE BALLAST. 
Components Values 
Filter Inductor Lf 2mH 
Filter Capacitor Cf 1μF 
Power MOSFET S1,S2 20N60S5 
Capacitors Cdc1 ; Cdc2 ; Cbuck 220μF; 220μF; 1.5μF 
Diodes D1, D2 MUR460  
Inductors  LPFC; Lbuck 0.515mH; 0.65mH 
 
Fig. 11.  Measured gate-driving signals vGS1 (20V/div), vGS2 (20V/div);  
Time: 5ms/div. 
 
Fig. 12.  Measured iPFC (1A/div) and ibuck (1A/div) and their zoomed-in 
waveforms; Time: 5ms/div. 
 
vlamp
ilamp
Fig. 13.  Measured vlamp (200V/div) and ilamp (2A/div); Time: 5ms/div. 
二、 參加 IPEC 2011-ECCE Asia 國際研討會心得報告 
ICPE (International Conference on Power Electronics) 2011-ECCE Asia為電力電子領域的年
度盛會，今年第八屆年會的主辦地點在南韓濟州的 The Shilla Jeju Hotel 舉行，會議中收錄許
多相關的技術論文，內容涵蓋層面廣泛，包含有：(1)直流-直流轉換器技術 (2)再生能源轉換
技術(包含風力,太陽能,潮汐能發電等) (3)馬達控制及驅動技術 (4)交流-直流轉換器及交流-交
流轉換器技術 (5)微電網系統相關技術 (6)電池模型與電能管理技術 (7)智能功率 IC (8)電子
照明及 LED 驅動控制技術 等研究領域，由各領域學有專長的科技產業的專家及學術界的學
者發表論文以及和與會的來賓做技術研討與交流。大會在五天的研討會當中的議程安排相當
豐富，有口頭報告及海報報告兩種場次，以及多場的專題演講，能夠讓與會的專家學者們充
分地進行相互的交流。 
    圖 3 為筆者於第一天抵達研討會舉辦的會場前留影。在議程第一天傍晚的歡迎會上，結
識了來自丹麥的 Josep M. Guerrero 教授，他的專長在於微電網(Microgrids)控制技術，以及同
樣來自丹麥的 Frede Blaabjerg 教授，他的專長則在於電力電子領域。在議程第二天則與來自
成大電機系梁從主教授與帶領敝校電機所碩士班楊馥澧一同參加早上來自美國的 Prasad 
Enjeti 教授與來自韓國的 Doo Yearn Jo 博士的專題演講(Plenary Speaking)；下午則連續聽了一
場直流-直流轉換器技術以及一場電力電子應用於顯示科技及 LED 驅動電路的口頭報告場
次，瞭解到最新的直流-直流的轉換架構以及 LED 新型驅動電路和定電流與定功率控制技術。 
 
圖 3 筆者於第一天抵達研討會舉辦的會場前留影 
學副校長吳財福教授，以及清華大學電機系的鄭博泰教授。圖 6 為筆者在大會安排的綠能減
碳的主題-電動汽車展覽前留影。下午的會議場次結束後，接著參加大會精心在飯店一樓宴會
廳安排的晚宴。晚宴中，除了表揚此次研討會優秀論文的得奬者外，在晚宴尾聲，大會更安
排在韓國濟州島極富盛名的亂打秀表演，透過四位表演者精湛的手藝，精彩的內容，將整場
宴會注入最歡樂的氣氛。隔天早上，參加完早上第一場口頭報告的場次後，便搭巴士離開大
會舉辦的飯店前往機場。 
 
 
 
圖 5 筆者於海報前的留影 
 
 
 
 
     
 
Acceptance Letter
 
 
31 January 2011
 
 
 
 
Asst. Prof. Chun-An CHENG
I-Shou University
Taiwan
 
 
Dear Asst. Prof. Chun-An CHENG
  Paper ID: P0807
  Paper Title: An Electronic HID Lamp Ballast Based on Single-Stage Power Conversion
The ICIEA 2011 Technical Program Committee has completed the review process and we are pleased to inform
you that your paper listed below have been accepted for presentation at the conference. Congratulations!
This letter serves to confirm the acceptance of your paper and is a formal invitation to you to come to Beijing, China
to present your work at the conference from June 21 – 23, 2011.
The acceptance of your paper is made with the understanding that the camera-ready paper will be uploaded to the
ICIEA 2011 website by 15 March 2011 and at least one author must register and attend the conference to present
the paper.
This invitation is not an offer of any financial supports whatsoever for conference registration OR travel expenses
to/from the conference OR any other forms of subsistence allowances while in China. This letter is issued on the
expectation that you will register for the conference and pay by the stipulated due date the required registration
fees as notified on the web site.
More information is available on the conference website at http://www.ieeeiciea.org/.
We look forward to welcome you at ICIEA 2011 in Beijing.
Yours truly,
 
Zhengguo LI  
General Chair for ICIEA 2011  
                                      
 
The input utility-line voltage vac is defined as: 
sin 2AC m linev V f tπ= ,                                                         (1) 
where Vm is the input peak voltage, and fline is the utility-line 
frequency.   
In order to analyze the presented single-stage HID lamp 
ballast, some assumptions are made, listed as follows. 
(a) All components utilized in the circuit are ideal. 
(b) The HID lamp resembles a resistive load in steady-state 
operation. 
(c) The frequency of the power switches’ is much higher than 
that of the utility-line voltage, so during analysis the 
utility-line voltage can be treated as a constant value in 
each switch period. 
Fig. 5 shows the flow chat of operation for the presented 
single-stage electronic HID lamp ballast.  The operational 
modes and principal waveforms are described as followings 
and shown in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7, respectively. 
 
Fig. 5.  The flow chat of the operation for the single-stage HID lamp ballast. 
 
Mode 1 (t0~t1):  Power switches S1 and S3 turn on at t0 
simultaneously.  The equivalent circuit of Mode 1 is shown in 
Fig. 6(a).  When S1 turns on, inductor LPFC is charged by the 
utility-line voltage, and inductor current iLPFC is linearly 
increased. 
During this mode, iLPFC1 flows through LPFC1, D1 and S1.  
The inductor Lbuck is charged by DC-bus voltage and the 
inductor current iLbuck is linearly increased.  iLbuck flows through 
S1, Lbuck, Cbuck and S3.  The voltage and current across inductor 
LPFC1 and Lbuck are respectively given by: 
1LPFC ACv v=                                                                            (2) 
1
1
( ) ACLPFC S S
PFC
vi DT DT
L
=                                                     (3) 
Lbuck DC lampv V v= −                                                                 (4) 
( ) DC lampLbuck S S
buck
V v
i DT DT
L
−
=                                            (5) 
  where VDC is the DC-bus voltage; vlamp is the lamp voltage; Ts 
is the switching period of the power switch; D is duty cycle. 
Mode 2a (t1~t2):  S1 turns off at t1 and S3 remains on.  The 
equivalent circuit is shown in Fig. 6(b).  When S1 turns off, 
iLPFC and iLbuck start decreasing to zero through the body diode 
of S4.   iLPFC1 flows through LPFC1, D1, CDC and the body diode 
of S4.  iLbuck flows through Lbuck, Cbuck and the body diode of S4.  
The voltage across LPFC1 and Lbuck are respectively expressed as: 
1 1( )LPFC off AC DCv t v V= −                                                       (6) 
1
AC
off S
DC AC
vt DT
V v
=
−
                                                           (7) 
2( )Lbuck off lampv t v= −                                                               (8) 
2
DC lamp
off S
lamp
V v
t DT
v
−
=
                                                         (9) 
  Where toff1 is the time during which iLPFC1 continues 
decreasing to zero and toff2 is the time during which iLbuck 
continues decreasing to zero.  When iLPFC1 decreases to be zero, 
Mode 2a ends. 
Mode 2b (t1~t2):  When S1 turns off suddenly during Mode 1 
or S3 turns off suddenly during Mode 2a, Mode 2b begins.  The 
equivalent circuit is shown in Fig. 6(c).  All power switches 
turn off.  The current loop of iLPFC1 is the same as during Mode 
2a.  iLbuck flows through Lbuck, Cbuck, CDC, the body diode of S4 
and the body diode of S2.  When iLPFC1 decreases to zero, Mode 
2b ends.  The voltage across inductor Lbuck is given by: 
2( )Lbuck off lamp DCv t v V= − −                                                 (10) 
Mode 3a (t2~t3):  Power switch S3 remains on.  The 
equivalent circuit is shown in Fig. 6(d).  iLbuck continues 
decreasing to zero through the body diode of S4.  When iLbuck 
decreases to be zero, Mode 3a ends. 
Mode 3b (t2~t3):  This mode either follows Mode 2b or 
begins when S3 turns off suddenly in Mode 3a.  The equivalent 
circuit is shown in Fig. 6(e).  iLbuck continues decreasing to zero 
through the body diode of S4.  When iLbuck decreases to be zero, 
Mode 3b ends. 
Mode 4 (t4~t5):  The equivalent circuit is shown in Fig. 6(f).  
All power switches (S1, S2, S3 and S4) are off.  In this time 
interval (dead time), capacitor Cbuck provides energy to the HID 
lamp.  The voltage across the lamp is given by: 
                                      
 
 
(j) Mode 7a 
 
(k) Mode 7b 
 
(l) Mode 8 
Fig. 6.  Operation modes of single-stage HID lamps ballast. 
III. DESIGN GUIDELINES 
A. Design equation of inductor LPFC:  
The design equation of the inductors LPFC1 and LPFC2 is 
given by 
2 2
1 2 4 ( )
m DC
PFC PFC
s lamp DC m
V D VL L
f P V V
η
= =
−
                         
(12) 
where D and fs respectively, are the duty cycle and 
switching frequency of the high-frequency square-wave signal 
from the PWM controller; Plamp is the HID lamp power; and η 
is the estimated efficiency of the ballast.  With a Vm of 155V, a 
Plamp of 70W, a η of 0.9, Fig. 8 depicts the relationships 
between the inductor LPFC1 (LPFC2) and duty cycle D under 
different switching frequencies.  As seen in Fig. 8, with a D of 
0.3 and switching frequency fs of 36 kHz, the inductor LPFC1 
(LPFC2) is chosen to be 450 μH. 
 
 
 
 
 
B. Design equation of inductor Lbuck:  
For designing within DCM, the inductor Lbuck can be expressed 
as 
slamp
DCcDC
buck fP
DVvVL
2
)( 2−
=                                               (13) 
C. Design equation of capacitor Cbuck: 
The equation of capacitor Cbuck is shown as follows: 
(1 )
8
lamp
buck
buck lamp s
D I
C
L I f
−
=
Δ
                                                       (14) 
where Ilamp is the lamp rated current, and ΔIlamp 
is the 
allowed maximum level of current ripple for avoiding acoustic 
resonance. 
With a VDC of 280V and a Vlamp of 88V, Fig. 9 depicts the 
relationships between magnetic inductor Lbuck and duty cycle 
D under different switching frequencies.  As seen in Fig. 9, 
with a D of 0.3 and switching frequency fs of 36 kHz, the 
inductor Lbuck is chosen to be 900 μH.  By using Equation (13), 
along with a D of 0.3, an Ilamp of 0.8A and ΔIlamp of 0.05, the 
capacitor Cbuck is selected to be 1μF. 
 
 
 
 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
A prototype ballast for a 70W HID lamp has been built and 
tested.  The key components of the proposed ballast and 
specifications for the experimental HID lamp are listed in 
Table I and Table II, respectively.   
The measured gate-driving signals of the four power 
switches and inductor current iLPFC1 and iLbuck, as well as their 
zoomed-in waveforms, are shown in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11, 
respectively.  Fig. 12 depicts the measured lamp voltage and 
current in steady-state periods.   
The measured input utility-line voltage and current are 
shown in Fig. 13; Table III is the measured input utility-line 
current harmonics, and compares them with IEC 61000-3-2 
Class C standards.  The measured power factor and total 
harmonic distortion (THD) are 0.99 and 14%, respectively.  
Moreover, the efficiency of the presented single-stage HID 
lamp ballast is approximately 90%. 
 
 
                                      
 
 
Fig. 11  Measured iLPFC1 (5A/div) and ibuck (5A/div) and their zoomed-in 
waveforms; Time: 5ms/div. 
 
 
Fig. 12  Measured vlamp (200V/div) and ilamp (2A/div); Time: 5ms/div. 
 
Fig. 13  Measured vAC (100V/div) and iAC (2A/div); Time: 5ms/div. 
TABLE III 
MEASURED INPUT UTILITY-LINE CURRENT HARMONICS COMPARED WITH 
IEC 61000-3-2 CLASS C STANDARDS 
Order(n) IEC 61000-3-2 Class C Standards (%) Measured (%) 
2 2 2.3 
3 30×power factor 14.15 
5 10 4.4 
7 7 2.3 
9 5 2.2 
11≤n≤39 3 1.4 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
This paper has developed a single-stage electronic HID 
lamp ballast based on a combination of a bridgeless boost 
converter and a high/low-frequency square-wave driven full-
bridge inverter.  Inductors LPFC1 and LPFC2 are designed to 
work at DCM so that the presented ballast possesses power-
factor-correction functions.  Inductor Lbuck is designed to work 
in discontinuing-conduction-mode and under stable operation 
the ballast circuit supplies high-frequency (36 kHz) combining 
with low-frequency (60 Hz) square-wave sources to the HID 
lamp. 
A prototype ballast circuit has been built in order to provide 
a 70W HID lamp with 110V-rms utility-line input voltage.  
The experimental results have demonstrates high power factor 
(>0.99), low current THD (<14%), and acoustic-resonance-
free operation of the HID lamp, verifying the functionality of 
the proposed ballast. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part by the National Science 
Council of Taiwan (R. O. C.) under Grant NSC99-2628-E-
214-002.   
REFERENCES 
[1] T. J.  Liang, C. M.  Huang and J. F. Chen, “Two-stage High-Power-
Factor Electronic Ballast for Metal-Halide Lamps,”  IEEE Trans. 
Power Electron., vol. 24, no. 12, Dec. 2009, pp. 2959-2966. 
[2] C. S. Moo, S. Y. Tang, W. T. Tsai and H. L. Cheng, “Acceleration 
scenarios of metal halide lamps,” IEEE Trans. Plasma Science, vol. 
36, no. 4, Aug. 2008, pp. 1907-1912. 
[3] J. M. Davenport and R. J. Petti, “Acoustic resonance phenomena in 
low wattage metal halide lamps,” Journal of the Illuminating 
Engineering Society, vol. 12, no. 4, Apr. 1985, pp. 633-642. 
[4] H. J. Faehnrich and E. Rasch, “Electronic Ballasts for Metal Halide 
Lamps,” Journal of the Illuminating Engineering Society, Summer 
1988, pp.148-153. 
[5] J. Melis and O. Vila-Masot, “Low frequency square wave electronic 
ballast for gas discharge lamps,” U. S. Patent 5,428,268, Jun. 27, 1995. 
[6] C. R. Lee, K. H. Chen and C. S. Moo, “Operating characteristics of 
small-wattage metal halide lamp with square wave current from 50 Hz 
to 50 kHz,” in Proceedings of IEEE-IAS’03 Annual Meeting, 2003, pp. 
1030-1035.  
[7] M. A. Co, C. Z. Rezende, D. S. L. Simonetti and J. L. F. Vieira,   
“Microcontrolled electronic gear for HID lamps comparisons with 
electromagnetic ballast,” in Proceedings of IEEE IECON’02, 2002, pp. 
468-472. 
[8] Miaosen Shen, Zhaoming Qian, F ang Zheng Peng, “Design of a two-
stage low-frequency square-wave electronic ballast for HID lamps,” 
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 39, Mar.–Apr.  2003, pp. 424-430. 
 
A Single-Stage Driver for High Power LEDs 
Chun-An Cheng, Member, IEEE , and Chun-Hsien Yen 
Power Electronics Lab, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, 
 I-Shou University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-mail: cacheng@isu.edu.tw 
  
Abstract -- This paper proposes a single-stage driver for high-
power light-emitting diodes (LEDs).  The presented circuit 
combines an active power-factor-correction (PFC) converter 
with a half-bridge-type LLC resonant converter.  The active 
PFC converter consists of two boost-converted cells to achieve 
input current shaping with interleaving methods.  The half-
bridge-type LLC resonant converter is designed for obtaining 
soft-switching on two power switches to reduce their switching 
losses.  The proposed driver features cost-effectiveness, low 
levels of input current ripple, low switching losses, high power 
factor, fewer components and reduced leakage current.  Finally, 
a prototype driver with current-equalizing function is developed 
to supply 140W high-power LEDs with a 110V utility-line input 
voltage.  Simulation and experimental results demonstrate the 
feasibility of the proposed circuit. 
 
Index Terms—Converter, LEDs, LLC resonant inverter, power-
factor-correction  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Recently, light-emitting diodes (LEDs) have become 
increasingly popular as solid-state lighting sources.  They 
differ from traditional incandescent lamps, which use 
filaments to make heat radiation, and fluorescent lamps, 
which use gaseous discharging.  LEDs, which encompass 
almost all visible light and color, have features of compact 
size, fast response and long lamp life.  LEDs have many 
superior characteristics and effective applications in 
background lighting, displays, street lighting, automotive 
lighting, decorative lighting, and so on.  Because of their long 
life and low maintenance costs, and they have been the main 
trend in modern lighting.  The lighting applications of LEDs 
in our daily lives are closely related [1]. 
The conventional LED driver is a two-stage topology, as 
shown in Fig. 1.  The commonly used first stage is the boost 
converter, and the second stage is the half-bridge-type series 
resonant converter (SRC).  The advantages of the first stage 
in the traditional driver are:  (a) simple structure; (b) the input 
inductor can suppress the surging input current; (c) the power 
switch is non-floating, so it’s easy to design the driver circuit.  
In addition, the inductor current equals the output current.  
Thus, it’s easy to realize current-mode control.  However, the 
output voltage is high, and the voltage stresses of the diode 
and the power switches are relatively high. 
For the second stage in the conventional driver, two 
symmetrically operated power switches, S2 and S3, are series-
connected to form a half-bridge-type network.  Their duty 
cycles are 50% and do not overlap while the two switches 
turn on or turn off.  The resonant tank is composed of an 
inductor Lr, a capacitor Cr and a center-tapped transformer T1.  
The center-tapped transformer is connected with two diodes 
for full-wave rectifications, and the transformer is capable of 
providing low voltage and high current sources from the half-
bridge resonant tank.  The resonant inductor Lr and capacitor 
Cr dominate the resonant frequency of the SRC for achieving 
zero-voltage switching (ZVS) or not.  A load that is too light 
causes low resonant current.  Thus, the intrinsic capacitor of 
the power switch can not fully discharge energy; ZVS is 
unable to be achieved [2]. 
Fig. 1  The conventional two-stage driver for LEDs. 
II. THE PROPOSED SINGLE-STAGE LED DRIVER 
Fig. 2 presents the proposed driver, which combines an 
interleaved boost converter with a half-bridge-type LLC 
resonant converter into a single-stage power conversion, for 
supplying high-power LEDs.  The driver consists of a full-
bridge rectifier, two capacitors (Cin1 and Cin2), two diodes (D1 
and D2),  two inductors (L1 and L2), two power switches (S1 
and S2),  a DC-linked capacitor CB, a resonant capacitor Cr and 
an inductor Lr, a center-tapped transformer T1 with two output 
windings, two diodes (D3 and D4), and a capacitor Co along 
with the LEDs. 
Fig. 3 shows the voltage gain versus frequency ratio fs/fo for 
the half-bridge-type LLC resonant converter under different 
loads.  The half-bridge-type LLC resonant converter has two 
frequencies (fr1 and fr2) and three operation regions.  When the 
switching frequency of the power switches is greater than fr1, 
the circuit works in region one.  In this condition, the magnetic 
inductor doesn’t participate in resonance.  When the switching 
frequency equals fr1, the voltage gain is unity. The voltage 
gain is smaller than unity when the switching frequency is 
lower than fr1.  
 
Fig. 2  The proposed single-stage LEDs driver. 
 
(a) Mode 1 (t0~t1) 
 
(b) Mode 2 (t1~t2) 
 
(c) Mode 3 (t2~t3) 
 
(d) Mode 4 (t3~t4) 
 
 (e) Mode 5 (t4~t5) 
 
 (f) Mode 6 (t5~t6) 
 
(g) Mode 7 (t6~t7) 
 
S2
Cs1
Cs2
iL1
D1 L1
L2D2
Vrec1
Vrec2
CB
Cr Lr
Lm np
D3
D4
CO
ns
iLr
S1
ns
iL2
id4
LEDs
(h) Mode 8 (t7~t8) 
 
(i) Mode 9 (t8~t9) 
 
(j) Mode 10 (t9~t10) 
 
(k) Mode 11 (t10~t11) 
(l) Mode 12 (t11~t12) 
Fig. 4  Operational modes of the presented single-stage driver for LEDs. 
TABLE  I    
PARAMETERS OF THE PROPOSED LEDS DRIVER 
 
Parameters Values 
Input Voltage, Vin 110V AC 
Output Voltage, Vout 23.1V DC 
Output Current, Iout 6.1A 
Switching Frequency, fs 45kHz 
Turns Ratio, n 7 
Duty Ratio 0.45 
Quality Factor, Q 0.3 
TABLE  II    
KEY COMPONENTS OF THE PROPOSED DRIVER 
 
Components Values 
L1 & L2 160μH 
Lr 380μH 
Lm 820μH 
CB 270μF 
Cr 27nF 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 6  (a) Simulated and (b) measured voltage vds1 & vds2 (100V/div) and 
current ids1 & ids2 (1A/div); time scale: 10μs/div. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 7  (a) Simulated and (b) measured inductor current iL1 & iL2 (2A/div); 
time scale: 5μs/div. 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 8  (a) Simulated and (b) measured resonant inductor current iLr (2A/div); 
time scale: 10μs/div. 
iLr 
iLr 
三、 參加 IEEE ICIEA 2011 國際研討會心得報告 
IEEE ICIEA (IEEE Conference on Industrial Electronics and Applications) 2011 為電力電子
與工業電子領域的年度盛會，今年第六屆年會的主辦地點在中國北京的 Friendship Hotel (友誼
賓館)舉行，會議中收錄許多相關的技術論文，內容涵蓋層面廣泛，包含有：(1)切換式電路與
直流-直流轉換器技術 (2)再生能源轉換技術(包含風力,太陽能,潮汐能發電等) (3)馬達控制及
驅動技術 (4)交流-直流轉換器及交流-交流轉換器技術 (5)微電網系統相關技術 (6)電池模型
與電能管理技術 (7)智能功率 IC (8)電子照明及 LED 驅動控制技術 (9)功率元件與量測 (10)
無線偵測網路 等研究領域，由各領域學有專長的科技產業的專家及學術界的學者發表論文
以及和與會的來賓做技術研討與交流。大會在三天的研討會當中的議程安排相當豐富，有口
頭報告及海報報告兩種場次，以及多場的專題演講，能夠讓與會的專家學者們充分地進行相
互的交流。 
在議程第一天，聆聽了由 Patrick Hu 教授主持的能源管理與控制系統的場次以及由 Fang 
Lin Luo 教授主持的切換式電路與功率轉換器 I 的場次，兩場次合計共有十一篇論文發表，並
瞭解到最新的能源管理系統實現方式以及新型切換式電源轉換器的電路架構與控制方式。 
在議程第二天中，到逹會場聆聽由 Weihai Chen 教授主持的切換式電路與功率轉換器 II 的場
次，瞭解到最新的直流-直流的轉換架構以及 LED 新型驅動電路和小瓦數的複金屬燈電子安
定器的新型架構以及燈管定功率控制技術。接著參加下午的海報報告場次，結識了同樣來自
台灣雲林科技大學電機系的林伯仁教授與虎尾科技大學電機系的張永農教授，並分別向林教
授和張教授請益及對他們發表的論文中有關的交錯式升壓-返馳型功因修正電路以及 T8 型
CCFL 螢光燈管的驅動技術進行交流與討論。會後並和來自台灣的教授們(除了上述的教授
外，還有中山大學電機系莫清賢教授，東華大學電機系謝耀慶教授，宜蘭大學電機系的江茂
欽教授與王建銘教授，大同大學電機系的林長華教授，遠東科技大學的顏豪呈教授，以及筆
者的同事鄭宏良老師與張健軒老師)一同至宴會廳參加大會精心安排的晚宴，圖 7 為筆者與張
永農教授於大會舉辦的晚宴中合影，並欣賞大會安排的北京具有地方特色的表演及演奏，所
有與會的來賓度過了一個美好的夜晚。 
 
圖 8 筆者於海報報告場次的留影 
 
圖 9 筆者與鄭宏良教授於大會會場前合影 
    參加完此次的國際會議後，在學術研討交流以及產業界最新的發展趨勢等方面皆獲益良
多，不但能夠與國內外的學者進行學術交流，並增進專業科技英文的聽說能力，還能將研討
主題與產業界的需求相互結合，是一場相當值得參與的國際盛會。 
  除此之外，此行另一個重要的任務是在本次國際研討會結束後第二天，在中山大學電機
系莫清賢教授與雲林科技大學電機系華志強教授帶領下，與虎科大張教授，東華大學謝教授，
遠東科大顏教授，敝系的鄭老師與張老師一同拜會了中國科學院電工研究所，並進行技術交
流與參訪。圖 10 筆者與鄭宏良教授、張健軒教授於中國科學院電工研究所前合影；圖 11 筆
者與張健軒教授於電工研究所參訪簡報會場中合影；圖 12 筆者與此次共同參訪的教授們以
及電工研究所負責接待的教授與研究人員們的合影藉由此次難得的機會，能夠瞭解到電工研
 圖 12 筆者與此次共同參訪的教授們以及電工研究所負責接待的教授與研究人員們的合影 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭竣安 計畫編號：99-2628-E-214-002- 
計畫名稱：無音頻共振汽車用 HID 燈電子安定器之研製 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
