一、摘要： 
中文摘要 
本計劃第一年已完成一個利用 QUAD-EMC 結構達成雙層、單一饋入之雙頻雙圓形極化的
天線。該雙頻雙圓形極化的設計是由在下層基板的單一微帶天線耦合至排列在上層基板的四
個相同的微帶天線(以下簡稱為四單元),藉由適當的調整上下層微帶天線的大小尺寸以及若
干單元的截角尺寸,該天線能使用單一饋入而達成雙頻雙圓形極化的效果。  
本計劃第二年四單元是藉由偏移饋入(offset-fed)非閉合的矩形環來達到激發，此方法
可以使返回損失(10dB return loss)及圓極化軸比頻寬(3dB axial ratio)皆達到 11%以上，
較第一年頻寬較寬, 而利用較大的環 (ring)激發則可以使最大增益在正前方方向上, 但是
若四單元是藉由較小之環做偏移饋入, 則最大增益並非在正前方。 
 
Abstract 
In the first year of this two-year project, a novel technique for obtaining a two-layer 
single-feed dual-band circularly polarized antenna with QUAD-EMC structure had been 
successfully implemented. The dual-band CP design is achieved by four identical patches (or a 
QUAD-EMC unit) uniformly displayed with a rectangular aperture and fed electromagnetically by 
a driven patch etched on a lower substrate. In the second year, techniques to generate circularly 
polarized waves for the quad-unit are investigated. The quad-unit is offset-fed by an open 
rectangular ring. It has been shown that both 3-dB axial ratio and 10-dB return loss bandwidths 
can be achieved up to 11%. With a large ring, we have a stable maximum beam at the bore-sight 
direction. With a small ring, however, the main beam is not in the boresight direction.  
 
二、緣由與目的： 
    由於第一年之成果, 去年已詳述, 以下僅針對第二年提出說明。 
四單元或 2x2 陣列可視為一個群體，此群體是四個分離的貼片(patch)天線組成。通常
陣列天線可以藉由一置放於大型陣列基底的饋入網路來激發[1]。至於四單元的陣列中，如
文獻 2的圖 6，曾用來接收在 S 頻帶的直接廣播衛星系統(DBSR)的信號 。在[3]中呈現了一
個工作在 L 頻帶的低成本行動衛星天線，適合裝備置在手提終端裝置(portable briefcase 
terminal)上。此外連續旋轉(sequential rotation)技術[4]被應用在[2]和[3]可增強陣列
的圓形極化頻寬。 
對於線性極化波，四單元可以用許多不同的方法激發，文獻 5裡介紹了一種不使用共同
饋入，而是藉由單一驅動貼片(patch)四周頂角來耦合的方式，此方法在文獻 6 裡也使用並
完成一個線性極化反射陣列。 
本研究主要是採用簡單的環形(ring)來激發圓形極化波的方法，當靠著環形(ring)結構
激發時，環的周長是為 2或 4倍波長，研究中發現藉由偏移饋入在大環或小環激發四單元可
以得到 11%的圓極化軸比(axial ratio)頻寬，此頻寬可和文獻[2,3,7]相比較。當此設計只
使用一個環形(ring)結構去激發四個貼片(patch)時，可以看做是一個串聯饋入的方式，在
[8]中也利用串聯饋入的方法來形成一個 8x8 的陣列，而本篇文章所呈現的是串聯饋入法首
次被用來運用在一個四單元的小陣列上。而這種設計的優點就在於它的簡單性。 
的頻寬，利用雙層 FR4 板來做說明，每一層的厚度為 1.6mm，貼片(patch)及環形(ring)的
尺寸如圖 2所示，環形(ring)的寬度將從 1.5mm 到 2mm 做細微的調整，其模擬結果中，可以
得到在 3dB 以下的圓極化軸比頻寬從 5.15~5.825GHz，當偏移距離選擇 2.95mm 時可以得到
更低的圓極化軸比。此結構理論上的輻射效率約略在 60%左右，在 5.8GHz 時的最大增益值
為 6.8dBic。  
量測的返回損失如圖 6 所示，可在 5.0~6.3GHz 時皆在-10dB 以下，而量測的圓極化軸
比頻寬如圖 7所示，在 5.35~6GHz 時皆在 3dB 以下有 11%的頻寬表現其中心頻率為 5.65GHz，
從 5.15~5.35GHz 這部份亦小於 6dB 圓極化軸比頻寬，其量測結果顯示往高頻的頻段偏移，
然而整體的趨勢是可以證實的，由返回損失圖中可以說明兩個主要共振的頻率，量測的增益
如圖 8 所示，在接地面尺寸為 5.0*5.0cm 時，量測最大增益值可以在 5.5GHz 時達到 7.2 
dBic，圖 9所示為量測的 H-plane 場形。   
 
五、結論： 
本研究中提出新的方法來在四單元中激發出圓形極化，亦在本研究利用大或小的環形
(ring)並調整偏移饋入激發來達到頻寬可增加到 11%，當使用大的環形(ring)時可以在穩定
的同極化場形中達到最大的波束於θ=0。此提出的方法無需使用功率分歧器就可以提供 11%
的圓極化軸比(axial ratio)頻寬，此頻寬在一些的應用上已經足夠, 例如文獻中[2],[3]
及 UNII 頻帶。 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 1  4 個正方形的單元由一個較小的開路環形(ring)激發 
 
圖 3   
(a)圓極化軸比(Axial ratio)與頻率的關係圖 (以不同的 d為參數 ,使用較大的環的情況) 
(b)返回損失(Return loss) 與頻率的關係圖(以不同的 d為參數 ,使用較大的環的情況) 
 
圖 5  大的環形(ring)激發 4單元的同極化及異極化(頻率標示於箭頭指示方向)場型 
 
圖 6 量測環形驅動 4單元之返回損失 
 
圖 7 量測環形驅動 4單元之圓極化軸比 
REFERENCES 
1. E. Levine, G. Malamud, S. Shtrikman, and D. Treves, “A study of microstrip array 
antennas with the feed network＂, IEEE Trans Antennas Propag. VoL. 37, 1989, PP.426–
434. 
2. T.K. Wu and J. Huang, “Low cost antennas for direct broadcast satellite radio＂, IEEE 
AP-S Int Symp Dig 2 ,Seattle, WA (1994), PP.1008–1011. 
3. N. Karmakar and M.E. Bialkowski, “A 2X2 element sequentially rotated patch antenna 
array for mobile  briefcase antenna system＂, Microwave Opt Tech. nol Lett 
Vol.13 ,1996. 
4. T. Teshirogi, M. Tanaka, and W. Chujo, “Wideband circularly polarized array antenna 
with sequential rotations and phase shifts of elements＂. Proceedings of International 
Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, Japan, Tokyo, 1985, pp. 117–120. 
5. H. Legay and L. Shafai, “New stacked microstrip antenna with large bandwidth and 
high gain＂,  IEE Proc Microwave Antennas Propag. Vol. 141 , 1994, pp.199–204. 
6. T.N. Chang and H. Suchen,  “Microstrip reflectarray with QUAD-EMC element＂, 
IEEE Trans Antennas Propag.  Vol.53, 2005. 
7. N.C. Karmakar and M.E. Bialkowski, “Circularly polarized aperture coupled circular 
microstrip patch antennas for L-band applications＂, IEEE Trans Antennas Propag. Vol.47 
1999, pp. 933–940. 
8. K.H. Lu and T.N. Chang, “Circularly polarized array antenna with corporate feed 
network and series feed elements＂, IEEE Trans Antennas Propag. Vol. 53 , 2005,pp. 
3288–3292. 
9. T.N. Chang and G.Y. Ni, “Dual-band circularly polarized antennas with a 
Quad-EMC structure＂, Micowave Opt Technol. Lett. , Vol. 49 , 2007, pp. 645–647. 
 
六、自評:  
 本計劃案發表學術文章及專利如下: 
1.The Nan Chang, "Methods to excite circularly polarized waves for a quad-unit," 
Microwave and optical letter, Microwave and optical letter, Vol.49, 
No.10,pp.2372-2375,2007 
2.T.N.Chang and G.Y. Ni, “Dual-band circularly polarized antenna with a quad-emc 
structure”, Microwave and optical technology letters”, Vol. 49, No.3, March, 2007 
    The Nan Chang, “ring fed four-patch antenna”, U.S. 7362272, 
   The Nan Chang, “Dual band circularly polarized antenna”, , U.S. Patent 7315283, 
T.N. Chang, and S.W. Lin,”Method to excite QUAD-unit”, Taiwan Patent TW 
I269487 
T.N. Chang, “Dual band dual circularly polarized antenna”, Taiwan Patent TW 
288500 
 1
configuration can lead to a phase change greater than 360°. Therefore, thick substrate with low dielectric 
constant can be used in order to optimize both sensitivity and bandwidth. To further extend application of 
the stacked variable patch size method to a relatively thin substrate with high dielectric constant, we 
propose a VPS structure. It is obtained by etching rectangular slot on bottom-layer patch of the original 
array. The slot introduces additional phase delay to modify the high slope region which is commonly seen 
on a reflectarray built on a high dielectric constant material. Therefore, more design flexibilities can be 
obtained.  However, we should know that as dielectric constant gets higher, the equivalent wavelength 
gets shorter. Therefore, the change of phase per mini-meter (not in terms of wavelength) is faster. This 
should be a general restriction for any phase-changing scheme in design of a reflectarray.  What we 
present is to show that we may possibly lower down the changing rate at least to some degrees. Our 
method is demonstrated using FR4 as a substrate. 
         Antenna design is a big issue in wireless communication. However, through years’ 
effort, there are not too many new developments. This is not surprise to us as you know that E.M. 
theory has already developed close to 160 years. Big challenges now are facing to is more and 
more antennas are needed in an already crowed commercial device. Antenna designer also needs 
more background in system requirement. For example, the technique to combat the multi-path 
environments as we mentioned before, etc. 
        Prague is definitely a good place to hold a meeting. Aside from a technical symposium, 
you find that this city is full of cultural contents. Wondering in castle area of this city makes us 
feel time goes back to ancient. Of course, time cannot be reversed in a real word. As usual, we 
bring a CD of this meeting and back to Taiwan and definitely will go ahead. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3
 Besides the technique session, there is very sad news. It is of a great grief to report that Prof. Jin Au 
Kong passed away on March 12 at age 65 from complications due to pneumonia. Prof. Kong was the 
primary organizer of the Progress In Electromagnetics Symposium (PIERS). Most importance is that he 
was born in China, but educated in Taiwan. He received a BS degree in 1962 from the National Taiwan 
University in Taipei, Taiwan, and an MS in 1965 from the National Chiao Tung University in Hsinchu, 
Taiwan. I still remembered that I walked with him and chattered a lot last year. I knew his main research 
was on meta-material when he was in Zhejiang University, China and in MIT, USA for over 5 years before 
his death. 
       This year, there are still a lot of papers related to meta-material. In this meeting, I met 
Prof. Tzong-Jer Yang coming from Chiao Tung University, Taiwan. His talks are on “The effect 
of cooling systems on HTS microstrip antennas” and on “ Frequency-dependent negative 
refraction of photonic crystals “. The second talk is related to use of meta-material to yield a 
negative refraction index device so that the beam can be focused. His research is in the optical 
range. In microwave range, we also adopt the concept of meta-material to boost gain of an 
antenna. The question is that many other ways can be used to boost gain of the antenna and I do 
not find out any special reason why the meta-concept is superior to others. My viewpoint is that 
the use of meta-concept is just a different explanation toward the already-known phenomenon. 
However, my experience is mainly in microwave range. I need to have more communication to 
people working in optical field to understand the superiority of using meta-concept. Prof. Yang’s 
second paper is also of interest to me. I have designed many antennas using printed copper 
technology. However, he designed microstip antenna on high temperature supper conductor. 
Being using different material, it deserves to have a comparison on performance. I will try to 
contact his group.                 
        Hangzhou is definitely a good place to hold a meeting. Aside from a technical 
symposium, you find that this city is full of cultural contents back to Song Dynasty in the history 
of China. As usual, we bring a CD of this meeting and back to Taiwan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5
報告內容：(應包括參加會議心得、建議、攜回資料名稱及內容、其他) 
         On Nov.1,2008, I took China Airline from Taipei to HongKong, then switch to HongKong 
Airline to continue the flight to Kumming, China. Kumming is the capital city of Yunan province. 
It is also a beautiful city full of many historic sites and scenic spots. 
         The symposium covers three main topics- Antenna propagations, EM theory, and 
Electromagnetic Compatibility. It is reported that 520 papers were accepted out of the 630 
submitted. My presentation is on an asymmetrical monopole printed on a T-shaped ground plane. 
In the literature, the technique of using T-shaped ground to increase bandwidth of a symmetrical
monopole had been discussed. It is seen that VSWR can only be made less than 3 within 870-2450 
MHz. In this presentation, we improve the input match so that VSWR is less than 2 within the 
same bandwidth. The achievement is made by introducing an asymmetrical monopole. 
         In our presentation, the T-stub is extended from the ground plane. So, it is actually 
a part of the ground plane. This T-stub mainly contributes radiation of lower bands, say around 
870-1000MHz.  
         In our new research, not presented in this symposium, we found that we can also use 
the T-stub as a monopole. We make the T-stub monopole etched on a rectangular ground plane. 
By introducing asymmetrical concept as was presented in this symposium, we can also make wider 
bandwidth than a symmetrical one. A typical application is to achieve tri-band of 2.45/5.2/5.8GHz 
operation. It also yields a very compact design. The antenna size is only 15mm by 20mm with a 
ground plane size of 23mm by 20mm. 
        Preparation of the symposium seems not well done. For example, we cannot get a receipt 
of the register fee when we arrive at the front desk of the symposium even we have already 
transferred the money a month ago. We get the receipt on the second day of the meeting. Another 
unpleasant thing is that we found that our nationality has been changed to “Taiwan, China”, 
instead of just “Taiwan” as we submitted. This change does through our consent and it is made 
automatically by committee.  
        Many other topics also cause my interest. For example, how to design muti-antenna to 
meet difficult wireless environments. In this area, key physical characteristics of mutipath 
propagation based on experimental measurements and suitable mathematical propagation model are 
required. Perhaps, many knowledge of communication system is also required.  
        
p.s.: A Thumb Driver containing information and all papers of this symposium is brought back.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7
報告內容：(應包括參加會議心得、建議、攜回資料名稱及內容、其他) 
      KJMW 2009 was held on Seogwipo, Jeju Island, Korea from 4/2 to 4/3. Although it is called by 
Korea-Japan microwave conference, there are papers submitted and accepted from four countries. 
Taiwan has 7 papers presented. 
      Professor Kuo from National Chiao University presented a new stub-tapped resonator bandpass 
filter. In this conference, there are many papers dealing with bandpass filter with a common aim to 
suppressing spurious response in undesired band. For example, another technique using muti-metal 
structured lines was presented by professor Tack-Gyu Kim from Kyunghee Univerity, Korea (see page 9 
on the proceeding). I did some filter designs about 10 years ago. Usually the trick used to suppress the 
spurious response relies on how to equalize the even and odd node propagation constants. Usually, it 
can be done simply by top loaded a dielectric layer on the original circuit. Theoretically, a 
quarter-wavelength parallel coupled line filter can only generate spurious mode due to the third 
harmonics. However, it has been discussed that the second harmonic mode also exists due to the 
unequal even and odd mode phase constants. Since the second harmonic is closer to the pass band than 
the third harmonic does, it is better to be eliminated. 
      As my interests are now on antenna design, my presented paper is on a retrodirective array. A 
simple passive microstrip array comprising four ring antenna elements is presented. Each element is 
excited via stripline-coupled feeding from two orthogonal ports. It is arranged to form a Van-Atta 
retrodirective array which has two-dimensional self-tracking ability. We validate that this structure is 
catered for both linear and circular polarizations by simulation with IE3D and by experiment. Pair of 
elements is arranged so that each vertical port is connected to the horizontal port and vice versa. By this 
way, reflection field from the ground plane and the re-radiated field by way of inter-connection can 
easily be distinguished not only for the linear polarized array but also for the circular polarized array. 
Simulations and experiments were conducted at 5GHz and 10GHz for 2D linear and circularly polarized 
array. The measured 10 dB responding beam width at 5GHz for linear polarization is 140°, and the 
measured 10dB responding beam width at 10GHz for circular polarization is 130°, both of them are 
much wider than the beam width of reflection from metal sheet with the same size. Through 
discussions, I explained operation mechanism of our design to many attendees.  
       I brought back one volume of proceeding containing all published papers in this conference.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9
reflectarray with a high dielectric constant or a thin substrate is very sensitive to manufacture tolerances. Our 
motivation is to present a method to modify the phase curve of “VP” structure when it is applied to the FR4 material 
with a relative thinner substrate.  
 
Variable-patch-and-slot size reflectarray 
      In this section, we propose a new structure by etching a slot on the bottom-layer patch of the previous “VP” 
configuration. The new construction unit cell is called by “VPS”. VPS is different from VP by adding a slot of length 
L as shown in Fig.4. The width of the slot is W. We keep W=0.2 a1 and a2= 0.65a1 as we tune the slot length L. Four 
different slot lengths to patch size ratios for each material were studied. In Figures 5 to 8, the curves marked by s1, s2, 
s3, and s4 refer to L=0.2 a1, L=0.4a1, L=0.6a1, and L=0.8a1 respectively. These curves are all analyzed at 11GHz.The 
roles played by the slot depend on the employed material. In [4], thick substrate (thickness is 6mm) with low 
dielectric constant ( )05.1=rε was used. In this case, we found from Fig.5 that it is not necessary to introduce the 
slot. In fact, the slot makes a steeper slope than the original design for a low dielectric constant material. However, it 
is clear that the slot introduces additional phase delay. For an original less smooth VP-based phase diagram, we may 
use the slot to modify the high-slope region. For example, we may use the s4 curve in Fig.8 or use the s3 or s4 curve 
in Fig.7 to replace the conventional design. As for Fig.6, no apparent advantage can be obtained from VPS design. In 
experiment, we use the “layout curve” which is a straight line in Fig.9 to approximate the s3 curve in Fig.7 to design 
a reflectarray on an FR4 substrate. 
 
Experiments 
 
 The reflectarray is composed of 320 elements with an area of 19.5cm×25cm. It is a center-fed array with a feed 
horn at a distance of 20cm away from the reflecting board. In [4], the substrate thickness is 6mm. In this design, only 
3.2mm thickness is needed. Low efficiency of the present array is due to the losses of the FR4 substrate. It has been 
checked in [6] that the FR4 material may cause 2.5dB loss in this frequency range. Besides this unavoidable loss, 
other performances such as bandwidth and cross polarization level are all comparable to each other. A measured 
H-plane pattern at 11GHz is shown in Fig.11.  
 
Conclusion 
 
 In this paper, we first investigate a conventional stacked variable patch size reflectarray. The phase diagram 
shows that the configuration can lead to a phase change greater than 360°. Therefore, thick substrate with low 
dielectric constant can be used in order to optimize both sensitivity and bandwidth. To further extend application of 
the stacked variable patch size method to a relatively thin substrate with high dielectric constant, we propose a VPS 
structure. It is obtained by etching rectangular slot on bottom-layer patch of the original array. The slot introduces 
additional phase delay to modify the high slope region which is commonly seen on a reflectarray built on a high 
dielectric constant material. Therefore, more design flexibilities can be obtained.  However, we should know that as 
dielectric constant gets higher, the equivalent wavelength gets shorter. Therefore, the change of phase per mini-meter 
(not in terms of wavelength) is faster. This should be a general restriction for any phase-changing scheme in design 
of a reflectary.  What we present here is to show that we may possibly lower down the changing rate at least to 
some degrees. The method is demonstrated using FR4 as the substrate. Experiments show that we can account on the 
 11
 
4.6ε =
4.6ε =
 
 
Fig.1 The unit cell of a reflectarray with variable patch size (a) top view (b) side view (h1=h2=1.6mm) 
 
 
      Fig. 2 Phase versus patch size for a reflectarray with different materials 
 
 
 13
 
Fig.6 Phase diagram of VP (with no slot) and VPS in Duroid material (ε=2.2) 
 
 
Fig.7 Phase diagram of VP (with no slot) and VPS in FR4 material (ε=4.4) 
 
 
Fig.8 Phase diagram of VP (with no slot) and VPS in Arlon material(ε=6) 
 
 
 
 
 
 15
            2008 三月出國發表之論文(共兩篇) 
Printed Digital Audio Broadcast Antennas 
The Nan Chang and Cheng-Min Jen 
Graduate Institute of Communication, Tatung University 
Abstract: 
 In this paper, printed antennas were studied for digital broadcast reception. The first one is a 
meandered loop antenna. Being in a meandered form, it can be made very compact. However, the 
gain and efficiency are quite low. In our study, the measured gain is only -30dBi. Aside from low 
gain, the bandwidth is also narrow. Therefore, this configuration may not be practical in use.  
 We then studied a bow-tie antenna. Bow-tie antenna is typically considered to have more 
bandwidth than the meandered configuration. Its gain increases up to 1.85dBi. Measured 
bandwidth is around 8%. For DAB reception in upper half of Band III, a required bandwidth of 
13% is needed. We found that the bandwidth can be increased by half-sizing the bow-tie antenna 
without reducing too much of its gain. This half sized bow-tie antenna (HBTA) takes an area of 
475mm by 110mm. Measured 10db return loss bandwidth ranges from 192 to 236 MHz, or 21% 
bandwidth centered at 214MHz. The gain is 1.78dBi within the whole band.  
Keywords: DAB, meandered loop antenna, bow-tie antenna, patch dipole antenna. 
Introduction: 
 DAB uses a wide-bandwidth broadcast technology . Its spectrum have been allocated in 
Band III (174–240 MHz) and L band (1452–1492 MHz). Not every country takes full sectrum of 
Band III. For example, in Taiwan, we onlt use uppeer-half band (210-240MHz, or 13% centered 
at 225MHz). The free space wavelength for center frequency of 215MHz in Band III is 133cm. In 
order to have a compact size and take advantage of using printed circuit technique, one may 
design an antenna with a meandered line configuration. To our best knowledge, the achieved gain 
is quite low using such a configuration at this low frequency band. In order to increase gain, we 
try a traditional bow-tie antenna. As is expected, the gain is increased at the cost of a large space. 
However, we found that the gain is only slightly reduced by half-sizing the previous antenna. The 
bandwidth, however, can be made broader. 
Meandered antenna 
 The geometry of the top metal surface of a meandered double-sided loop antenna is shown 
in Fig.1. The same metal pattern is also etched on the bottom side of an FR4 substrate, which has 
a thickness of 1.6mm. If the thickness goes to zero, the top and bottom surface are overlapped. 
The path starts at the right feeding point to point B, then goes down to a corresponding opposite 
point (not shown) at the bottom side via a connecting metal post, en-routing the path on bottom 
surface to a point opposite to point A and goes up to point A via another connecting post. The 
dimensions of the antenna are 102x87mm. There are 8 turns. Each turn has a width of 1mm. 
Length of each turn varies from 208 mm to 320mm. Total length of the loop is 2112mm(single 
side). The loop antenna is fed by a coaxial cable. No balun was used in our study. 
 Return losses in Fig.2 were measured and compared with simulation results by IE3D. 
Simulation shows that there are three separate frequency bands. In [1], we have studied that 
 17
present configuration. However, the HBTA is superior to the traditional bow-tie antenna in terms 
of occupied space if we limit our bandwidth within half upper Band III. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] The-Nan Chang and Chao-Chiang Kuo, “Meander Antenna With Backside Tuning Stubs”, 
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ANTENNAS AND PROPAGATION, VOL. 53, NO. 4, APRIL 
2005 
 
Fig .1 Configuration of a meandered loop antenna 
 
Fig.2 Return loss of a meandered antenna  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                 (a)                                    (b) 
Fig.3 Geometry of (a) a bow-tie antenna (b) a half sized bow-tie antenna 
 19
Two-Layer variable slot length reflectarray 
The Nan Chang and Chia-Hsin Chung 
Graduate Institute of Communication, Tatung University 
 
Abstract 
In this paper, a microstrip patch loaded with a co-plane slot and an atop-patch is used to 
realize a 12GHz reflectarray on a two-layer substrate. Phase of reflection is adjusted by tuning the 
length of each slot. Two different lengths of the atop-patch are selected so that we can have a full 
360o phase shift range.  
Introduction 
To design a reflectarray, we usually need to devise a technique to control reflection phase 
shifts among adjacent elements. Different methods have been proposed. We can use identical 
patches with different length phase-delay lines or we can use patches with various sizes [1]-[3]. 
In [4], an array of patches loaded with slots was proposed. One interesting feature is that phases 
are controlled by both the length of the patch and the length of the slot aperture. Two kinds of 
patches with different lengths were etched on top surface of a single layer grounded substrate. 
In this paper, we generate the idea of [4] and applied it to a two-layer substrate. On top 
surface of the first substrate layer, there is a square patch. On bottom surface of it, there is 
another square patch loaded with a slot. With such a structure, we find that the length of the top 
patch can also be used as a controlling factor. As the length of the patch is longer than the 
maximum variable length of the slot, there is very little phase shift tunable by the slot. The reason 
is that the effect of change in slot length is blocked by the top patch. The shorter the length of the 
top patch compared with the maximum variable slot length, the more the phase shift can be tuned 
by the slot. Therefore, we can employ patches with different lengths to control the required phase 
curve section by section so that a full 360 degrees phase shifts can be achieved. 
Basic cell of a two-layer variable slot-length reflectarray 
 Fig.1 shows the unit cell of the proposed structure. We keep values of s, d and s’ fixed. S’ 
determines spacing between adjacent elements and s and d are dimensions of the bottom patch. In 
[4], two different lengths of s were chosen while varying b to cover a 360o phase shift range in a 
single-layer substrate. Optionally, we can add one top patch. It is studied that two different 
lengths of patch are required while varying b for a full 360o phase shift control. 
We etch rectangular slot on the bottom patch. The FR4 substrate is 3.2mm thick (h=h1+ 
h2=3.2mm, h1= h2), and the unit cell is 10x10mm2 (s’=10mm). The phase diagram shown in Fig.2 
depends not only on slot length, but also on length b’ (or ratio=b’/s’) of the top patch. It is shown 
that a 237o (201o~-36o) phase range can be obtained for 0.5<b<5.5mm and r =b’/s’=0.4; and an 
113o (-49o~-172o) phase range is reached for 5.5<b<7mm and r =0.6.  By combining these two 
reflection phase sections, a full 360o phase range can be achieved. 
 21
 
Fig.3 Reflection phase diagrams at different frequencies 
Experiment results 
A reflectarray composed of 504 elements covering an area of 20cm×30cm is constructed. 
An on-axis feed horn is located 24cm ahead of the reflect array. Figure 4 shows the measured 
gain from 11.6GHz to 13.2GHz, where a 1.5-dB bandwidth is 5.93%, from 11.6 to 12.3GHz. 
At 11.8GHz the maximum gain is 24.39dBi, the cross-polarization level is bellow -25 dB 
and the aperture efficiency is 31.4%. Fig. 5 shows the relative gain pattern at 12GHz. 
  
Fig. 4 measured gain versus frequency 
 
Fig.5 Co and Cross polarization measurement at 12GHz 
 
Conclusion 
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
-180 -90 0 90 180
theta (degree)
dB
i
co-polarization
cross-polarization
-350
-250
-150
-50
50
150
250
2 3 4 5 6 7
slot length (mm)r
efl
ec
tio
n p
ha
se 
(de
gre
e) Freq=11.8GHz
Freq=12GHz
Freq=12.2GHz
Freq=12.4GHz
45∘
-45∘
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
11.6 12 12.4 12.8 13.2
frequency (GHz)
ga
in 
(dB
)
 23
2008 十一月出國發表之論文 
Unsymmetrical Monopole Antenna on a T-shaped Ground Plane  
The Nan Chang and Chang-Yung Chu 
E.E. Department, Tatung University  
No.40, Sec.3, Chung Shan north road, Taipei, Taiwan  
Abstract—A compact planar monopole antenna is investigated to cover 870-2450 MHz band. This antenna is 
an inverted E- shaped monopole with a T-stub ground plane.  Influence of asymmetry on bandwidth is 
discussed. We found that asymmetry can further help improve impedance match with VSWR less than two 
within the whole desired band. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
With the development of wireless communications, there are growing demands for integrated multi-function 
mobile terminals workable at frequencies from 870 MHz to 2450MHz. In [1], a printed monopole with a T-bar 
ground on FR4 substrate was proposed. It can operate within the above band with a voltage standing wave ratio 
(VSWR) less than 3. The monopole is composed of one rectangular patch, one triangular patch and two trapezoidal 
patches.  
Though variable parameters had been investigated to demonstrate wideband operation of such an antenna, we find 
that one parameter may be added to further improve the match. This new parameter is introduced via considering 
asymmetry property of a structure. We first modify the original antenna to one which is more easily analyzed. The 
modified antenna is an unsymmetrical E-shaped monopole. Meanwhile, the T-bar ground is maintained.  
II. GEOMETRY OF THE PROPOSED ANTENNA  
Based on the original monopole structure of [1], an asymmetric inverted “E-like” monopole with a protruding 
T-stub grounding plane is shown in Fig.1. The antenna is etched on a 1.6mm thickness FR4 substrate with Lt= 
110mm and Wt=50mm. Width of the microstrip line is fixed at 3mm. To highlight effect of four parameters, a, b, c, 
and d, on return loss bandwidth of this antenna, we fix the following parameters: c1=d1=5mm, w=11, m1=1mm, 
l=29mm, m=4mm, n=26mm and w1=0.6mm. 
 With a=b, c=d=0, simulated return loss is shown in Fig.2. We find that 10dB return loss cannot be fulfilled within 
the desired band. Next, the antenna is made asymmetrical. For example, we fix a=8mm, b=3mm and d=2mm while c 
is varied. In Fig.3, we find that 10dB return loss can be achieved with c=1mm.  
Through studies, we know that most current density congregates around the “T-stub” region at frequencies between 
870MHz and 900MHz. In Fig.1 and 2, the T-stub is placed at the top edge of the printed circuit board. The location 
of the T-stub can be changed by varying the parameter of n. Fig.4 shows the tuning effect. To have good impedance 
match over 900-2450 Mhz band, the T-stub needs to be paced at the top edge of the PCB.  
 
 25
 
 
Figure 2: Return Loss with a=b=0, 2, or 4 mm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Return loss of an asymmetrical structure 
 
 
Fig.5: Top side of the tested antenna 
 
 27
2009 年四月出國發表之論文 
Linearly and Circularly Polarized Retrodirective Arrays 
Abstract—A simple passive microstrip array comprising four ring antenna elements is introduced. Each element was excited 
via stripline-coupled feeding from two orthogonal ports. It is arranged to form a Van-Atta retrodirective array which has 
two-dimensional self-tracking ability. We validate that this structure is catered for both linear and circular polarizations by 
simulation with IE3D and by experiment. Pair of elements is arranged so that each vertical port is connected to the horizontal port 
and vice versa. By this way, reflection field from the ground plane and the re-radiated field by way of inter-connection can easily 
be distinguished not only for the linear polarized array but also for the circular polarized array. Simulations and experiments were 
conducted at 5GHz and 10GHz for 2D linear and circularly polarized array. The measured 10 dB responding beam width at 5GHz 
for linear polarization is 140°, and the measured 10dB responding beam width at 10GHz for circular polarization is 130°, both of 
them are much wider than the beam width of reflection from metal sheet with the same size. 
 
Index Terms—Retrodirective array, Circular polarization, dual-orthogonal feed, interference  
 
INTRODUCTION 
 In a retrodirective array, two major types of fields are unavoidably coupled together to yield a ripple-like total 
field if no special strategy is taken. The first one is scattered directly from antenna elements and their supporting 
structure (such as grounded substrate); the second one is retransmitted from antennas that were re-fed through 
connecting transmission lines. 
        To implement a retrodirective array, dipole or horn antennas were used as antenna 
elements and coaxial cables were chosen to connect them [1-2]. Recently, planar antennas and 
printed transmission lines have been proposed [3-6]. Most of the work is on linear polarized array.  
2-D circular polarized retrodirective arrays, however, were seldom discussed.  
         In this paper, linear and circular polarized Van Atta arrays composed of two-port 
dual-polarized elements are reviewed. Between antenna elements, there are inter-connection 
transmission lines. Two inter-connection schemes, H-V and H-H, are discussed. We found that 
reflection field from ground plane and the re-radiated field by way of the H-V type of 
inter-connection scheme can easily be distinguished not only for the linear polarized array but 
also for the circular polarized array.  
When the H-V type connection is used to retro-direct a circular polarized wave, signal 
coming to the receiving end due to ground reflection can automatically be distinguished from 
scattered field due to re-transmission. More important is that both transmitting and receiving 
antenna can be of the same polarization state (either both of RHCP or both of LHCP). 
  In [4], the H-V scheme was demonstrated to retro-direct a linearly polarized wave. 
Though the H-V scheme still can tell apart signal coming to the receiving end due to ground 
The Nan Chang, senior Member IEEE, and Jui-Shuan Wu,  
 29
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
-100 -80 -60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 80 100
Angle (Degree)
RC
S (
dB
sm
)
Finite Ground Plane
Ring Antennas (With Connecting Transmission Lines)
Ring Antennas (Without Connecting Transmission Lines)
 
Fig.2 RCS of three different cases 
  
Experiments were done in an anechoic chamber. To obtain a reference level for the monostatic radar cross section 
comparison, a metal sheet with the same dimensions (80mm ×80mm) as the retrodirective array structure was used. 
A high level of isolation is required to allow the receiver to distinguish retransmitted signal levels which are smaller 
than direct leakage picked up from the transmitted signal. Two linear polarization high gain double ridge horns were 
chosen to be the transmitting and receiving antennas and they were placed closely. Because the polarization of 
reradiated field is orthogonal to the polarization of incident wave, the polarization of receiving antenna is also need 
to be orthogonal to the polarization of transmitting antenna. By this arrangement a high level isolation better than 
60dB could be conducted easily. The measurement result is shown in Fig 3. In Fig 3, there are two curves, reradiated 
fields from ring antennas and scattered fields from the ground plane. It should be noticed that the reradiated field is 
quite smooth, the -3dB beamwidth and the -10dB beamwidth are 60° and 140° respectively. The scatter field from 
ground plane is at lest 10dB lower than the reradiated field form ground plane at normal direction. The result is quite 
reasonable because most of the scatter field is separated by different polarization, and it won’t interference with the 
reradiated field. 
 
-20
-18
-16
-14
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
-100 -80 -60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 80 100
Angle (Degree)
No
rm
ali
ze
d P
ow
er 
(dB
)
Metal Sheet Reradiated Field  
Fig.3 Measured pattern from the investigated array and from a reference ground plate 
 
 31
array.   Referred to Fig.1, we design such an array at 10 GHz using Duroid substrate (εr1=εr2=2.33). Thickness of 
both layer are chosen to be 0.65mm. The inner diameter Di= 1.9mm and the outer diameter Do=10mm.The inter 
element distances in both dimensions are both chosen as 0.75λ0 (λ0 = 22.5 mm) to reduce the coupling effect between 
the antennas. The ring elements are feeding by coupled strip line, and the stripline are designed to be 50Ω (W=1.8 
mm). In a Van Atta array the length of the striplines connecting the antennas are equal or their differences are 
multiples of wavelength. ( λg= 20.64 mm ). The striplines connecting the upper left 1 and lower right 1’ ringes are 
28.32 mm long while the upper right 2 and lower left 2’ are connected with 80.16mm length striplines. 
Fig.7 shows measured and simulated scattered patterns of the array. The measured results are quite agreeable 
with simulated predictions. The measured relative 10-dB beam width is about 130° which is a little wider than 
simulated beam width. 
 
 
-5
0
5
10
-80 -60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 80
Angle (Degree)
Di
rec
tiv
ity
 (d
Bi
)
Incident From 0 Degree Incident From 10 Degree
Incident From 20 Degree Incident From 30 Degree
Incident From 40 Degree  
                                         (a)  
 
-5
0
5
10
-80 -60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 80
Angle (Degree)
Di
rec
tiv
ity
 (d
Bi
)
Incident From 0 Degree Incident From 10 Degree
Incident From 20 Degree Incident From 30 Degree
Incident From 40 Degree  
                                           (b)  
Fig.5 Scattered fields for the H-H connecting scheme (a) E-left component (b) E-right component 
 
 33
using strip line-coupled dual polarized two-port ring antennas. We validate that the H-V connection scheme is 
superior to H-H scheme.  The H-V connection scheme is catered for both linear and circular polarizations. The 
circular polarization retro-directivity of this structure is convenient as both transmitting and receiving antenna can be 
of the same polarization state (either both of RHCP or both of LHCP). The ground reflection can automatically be 
rejected from reception as its polarization state is orthogonal to that of the transmitting antenna. Experiments were 
done by setup of a monostatic pattern measurement. For a linearly polarized retro-directive reflector, we have a 
smooth pattern with a 10db beamwidth of 140°, and for a circularly polarized one, we have a 130° beamwidth.  
REFERENCES 
[1] L. C. Van Atta, “Electromagnetic reflector”, U.S. Patent 2 908 002, Serial no. 514040, Oct. 1959. 
[2] J. Appel-Hansen, "A Van Atta reflector consisting of half-wave dipoles,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 14, pp. 694-700, Nov. 1966. 
[3] W.-J. Tseng, C.-S. Hu and S.-J. Chung, "Planar retrodirective array reflector using dual-slot antennas," Electron. Lett., vol. 34, pp. 1374-1376, 
July 1998. 
[4] M. G. Christodoulou and D. P. Chrissoulidis, "2D Van Atta Retrodirective Array Using Dual Polarized Two-Port Square Microstrip Patches”, 
International Conference on Antennas and propagation, 17-20 April 2001, Conference Publication No. 480, IEE 2001. 
[5] W.-J. Tseng and S.-J. Chung, “A Planar Van Atta Array Reflector with Retrodirectivity in Both E-Plane and H-Plane”, IEEE Trans. Antennas 
and Propagation, Vol. 48, No. 2, February 2000. 
[6]  M. Fujita and C. Murakami, “ Experimental Study of a Polarization-Rotating Van Atta Array with Reduced Co-Polarized Radar 
Cross-Section”, Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, 2003 IGARSS’03. Proceeding. 2003 IEEE International. 
 
         Another unpleasant thing is that we found that our nationality has been changed 
to “Taiwan, China”, instead of just “Taiwan” as we submitted. This change does through our 
consent and it is made automatically by the committee.  
        Many other topics also cause my interest. For example, how to design muti-antenna 
to meet difficult wireless environments is a big issue in the symposium. In this area, key 
physical characteristics of mutipath propagation based on experimental measurements and 
suitable mathematical propagation model are required. Perhaps, many knowledge of 
communication system is also required. 
p.s.: A Thumb Driver containing information and all papers of this symposium is brought back 
三、發表之論文: 
    Unsymmetrical Monopole Antenna on a T-shaped Ground 
Plane  
The Nan Chang and Chang-Yung Chu 
E.E. Department, Tatung University  
No.40, Sec.3, Chung Shan north road, Taipei, Taiwan 
tnchang@ttu.edu.tw  
  
 
Figure 1:  Geometry of an E-shaped monopole antenna with a T-bar ground 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Return Loss with a=b=0, 2, or 4 mm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
