 2
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究
計畫、列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公
開查詢 
          
執行單位：生醫材料暨工程研究所/臺北醫學大學 
 
 
中   華   民   國 九十七 年 十一 月  十四  日 
 4
Abstract  
 
We present a bio-electrospinning technique for preparing a cell-containing, 
oriented, continuous tubular scaffold, made of biodegradable polymer, designed for 
use as a nerve guide conduit (NGC) in nerve regeneration. With a coaxial spinneret, 
the PC-12 cell medium solution was co-electrospun into a core of tubular fibers, with 
PLA on the outer shell. The resulted fibers’ morphology was characterized via SEM 
and optical microscopy, and following structural characteristics were found: 1. the 
larger, hollow fibers had diameters in tenth of microns and wall thicknesses around 
few microns, 2. an orientation in a preferred direction with the aid of a high-rotating 
collection device. The fluorescent PC12 cells embedded within the scaffold were 
cultured and nerve growth factor was added. We observed cells could not only survive 
the process, but also sustain their viability by undergoing differentiation process, 
extending neurite along the micro tubular scaffold in the desired direction. All these 
results demonstrate its potential application for advanced NGC. 
 
 
 
 
Keywords: bio-electrospinning; nerve guide conduit; scaffold; PC12; neurite;  
 6
emphasized the essential functions of the advanced nerve guide. Based on these 
models, recent advanced NGC studies have focused on several distinctions, namely (1) 
providing more guiding structure, (2) adding chemical cues (such as, NGF, ECM), 
and (3) integrating all the above factors. Several studies have examined the 
multi-lumen structure via several processing techniques. Parallel agarose tubes were 
prepared by freezing the agarose aqueous solution from one side and forcing the 
alignment of the continuous tubes upward. [8, 9]  Without using any toxic chemicals 
as solvent, the in vitro test demonstrated the fast growth of the neurite in the guiding 
direction. However, the majority of such approaches called for traditional processes, 
such as injection molding or simple molding as presented by Moore et al. [10] On the 
other hand, Hodlock et al injected PLGA/glacial acetic acid into a mold with several 
arranged stainless steel wires. After removing the acid solvent by freeze dry and then 
the stainless steel wires, a multi-lumen conduit was obtained. [11] Bender et al [12] 
prepared PCL nerve guide by coating PCL on PVA core fibers, and then washing out 
the PVA to make several lumen channels. Huang et al fabricate coaxial stacked nerve 
conduits through soft lithography and molding processes. [13] 
With these efforts, the dimensions of these tube units were in the range of several 
hundred microns to a few millimeters. There has been little research demonstrating 
structural units down to a few microns or even in the nanometer range. Li et al 
 8
2. Materials and methods 
2. 1. Solution preparation and fabrication of hollow fibers scaffold by Electrospinning 
Solutions for electrospinning were (1) 10 wt% Poly-L-lactic acid (PLLA, 
medical grade, Mw=140kDa, kindly supplied by BioTechOne Inc. Taiwan) in mixed 
N,N-Dimethyl formamide /Dichloromethane solution (DMF, HCON(CH3)2, 99.8%, 
Tedia, USA / DCM, CH2Cl2, reagent grade, 99.9%, Mallinckrodt, USA ) and (2) 
Poly-ethylene glycol/ Poly-ethylene oxide (PEG, Mw= 35kD, PEO, Mw = 900kD, 
both from Sigma-Aldrich, USA) 10 wt% aqueous solution. The electrospinning setup 
consisted of a static charger (SIMCO, CD50-P, Chargermaster, USA), two syringe 
pumps (KDS-100, USA) and collecting unit, either a metal flat plate, as shown in 
Figure 1, or a rotating drum with a diameter of 7cm. The electrospinning processes 
were carried out in conjunction with a core/shell spinneret to produce core/shell fibers 
with the following parameters: up to 20kV of applied voltage and 10 to 20 centimeter 
of collecting distance. After removing the extra solvent in the inner tube by drying, 
hollow fibers were obtained.   
 
2. 2. Cell Culture  
PC12 cells were obtained from ATCC (CRL-1721, HisnChu Food Industrial Research 
Center, Taiwan). Prior to the electrospinning process, PC12 cells were maintained in a 
 10
 
2. 4. Bio-Electrospinning 
In a clean room, bio-electrospinning was conducted in a similar set-up and 
fashion to the normal electrospinning process mentioned above. After proper 
sterilization steps were taken, the cells in the medium, 106 x/ml, were added to 
PEO/PEG 10 wt% aqueous solution and mixed well before being transferred to the 
syringe pump. The electrospinning processes were carried out with parameters similar 
to previous one. The obtained cell-containing fibers were placed in a cell culture 
medium after removal from the collecting unit for further observation.   
 
3. Results 
3.1. Electrospun hollow fibers  
By adjusting processing parameters, such as, voltage and relative flow rates of 
the outer PLA solution, and inner PEO-PEG aqueous solution, the electrospinning 
processes were conducted and core/shell fibers were collected either by a rotating 
device or a flat plate. Micron scale hollow fibers were obtained after drying the 
core/shell fibers prepared by following parameters: 20kV, 15 cm, and 1.5 and 1.2ml/hr 
for outer and inner flow rates, respectively. It was found that the relative flow rate 
played an important role regarding the successful formation of the core/shell fibers. 
 12
the intensity was then integrated from the center to the edge for 360o and normalized 
for comparison, as shown in Figure 5. For improved visual purposes, only half of the 
data was displayed, i.e. from 0 to 180 o. It was also observed that fiber diameters 
decreased with the rotating speed, as shown in Figure 6. 
 
3. 3. Bio-electrospinning, cells inside the hollow fiber:  
The hollow fibers collected via the bio-electrospinning process were cultured in 
the medium. As shown in Figure 7, with aid of the optical microscope, cells were 
found floating and moving inside of the hollow fiber right after the formation of these 
fibers. In Figure 8, the finding was confirmed with the fluorescent microscopy with 
DNA transfected PC12 cells. A few days after the addition of the NGF, either right 
before the spinning process or in the culture solution of cell-containing hollow fiber, 
PC-12 cell attached and transformed from a round shape to a more elongated one, 
indicating the attachment of the cell, as shown in Figure 9. In the Day 5 to 6 period, 
neurite extension of up to 3-5 times the original body size was also observed, some as 
long as 100 microns, as shown in Figure 10. In some cases, the growth cone at the end 
of neurite was clearly seen. The growth direction of the neurite was the same as that 
of the fiber. These observations were confirmed with the DNA modified PC-12 cell 
under a fluorescent microscope, as shown in Figure 11.  
 14
reported in other research and believed to have formed by a smaller jet that randomly 
side-swung from the main jet, hence collected without preferred direction, during the 
electrospinning process. [18, 19] We also proved that all these smaller fibers were 
PLA, by comparing the dimensions of them before and after washing with water. No 
noticeable diameter changes were observed, which would indicate the above 
mentioned situation of smaller PLA fiber formation. Structure-wise, in our case, these 
smaller, random fibers may have severed as connection strings for holding together 
the larger, oriented fibers. The wide angle X-ray diffraction pattern showed that the 
fibers consisted of mainly PLA with a trace of PEG. The DSC data also echoed this 
finding.   
 
4.2. Fibers orientation   
The orientation of the electrospun fibers could be achieved by several collecting 
mechanisms. In our study, the rotating unit was used to collect and align these fibers. 
It is probably the easiest way to create a sizeable film with minimum hardware and 
setup. Orientation of fibers was quantified by an analysis of the corresponding SEM 
photograph via an image process software package, ImageJ. We observed a linear 
increase in the fiber orientation as the rotating speed was increased up to 150 m/min. 
This high degree of orientation was highly desired for guiding neurite growth. 
 16
solvent, such as dichloromethane; however, should the cell be affected by this process, 
it may cause the low viability measurements. As for other important components 
needed in the regenerative process, such as growth factors and the extracellular matrix 
or substratum proteins with which cells interact, there were reports discussed the 
effect of electrospinning on their functions.[22] Koh et al demonstrated that the 
Laminin still had the capability to aid cell attachment and differentiation even after it 
was electrospun.[23] Chew reported similar results on the protein bioactivity upon 
electrospinning process and the bioactivity of the NGF was sustained, if not 
completely, after electrospinning process.[24]  As shown in our results, the observed 
neurite outgrowth toward the direction of the fiber clearly demonstrates the guiding 
function of the hollow fiber. With the above results, i.e. larger surface area, higher 
degree of orientation, porous walls, and biocompatible guiding structures, we 
demonstrate a novel bio-electrospinning process for creating a multi-functional 
scaffold for nerve guide conduits via selected materials.   
 
5. Conclusions 
Aligned, micro-scale tubular, cell-containing scaffolds were prepared via a novel 
bio-electrospinning process with the biodegradable polymer. An advanced nerve guide 
conduit was then easily prepared with the combination of the all three major elements 
 18
5. Bellamkonda, R.V., Peripheral nerve regeneration: An opinion on channels, 
scaffolds and anisotropy. Biomaterials, 2006. 27: p. 3515-3518. 
6. Lietz, M., et al., Neuro tissue engineering of glial nerve guides and the 
impact of different cell types Biomaterials, 2006. 27(8): p. 1425-1436. 
7. Hudson, T.W.E., G.R. , Engineering strategies for peripheral nerve repair 
 Clin in Plast Surg, 1999. 26: p. 617-628. 
8. Stokols, S. and M.H. Tuszynski, The fabrication and characterization of 
linearly oriented nerve guidance scaffolds for spinal cord injury. 
Biomaterials, 2004. 25 (27): p. 5839-5846. 
9. Stokols, S., et al., Templated Agarose Scaffolds Support Linear Axonal 
Regeneration. Tissue Engineering, 2006. 12(10): p. 2777-2787. 
10. Moore, M.J., et al., Multiple-channel scaffolds to promote spinal cord axon 
regeneration. Biomaterials, 2006. 27(3): p. 419-29. 
11. Hadlock, T., et al., A polymer foam conduit seeded with Schwann cells 
promotes guided peripheral nerve regeneration. Tissue Eng, 2000. 6(2): p. 
119-27. 
12. Bender, M.D., et al., Multi-channeled biodegradable polymer/CultiSpher 
composite nerve guides. Biomaterials, 2004. 25(7-8): p. 1269-78. 
13. Wang, D.-Y., Huang, Yi-You Fabricate coaxial stacked nerve conduits 
through soft lithography and molding processes. Journal of Biomedical 
Materials Research Part A, 2007. 85A(Published online 13 August 2007 in 
Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com). DOI: 
10.1002/jbm.a.31568): p. 434-438. 
14. Li, J., Shi, R., Fabrication of patterned multi-walled poly-L-lactic acid 
conduits for nerve regeneration. J.  Neuroscience Methods, 2007. 165: p. 
257-264. 
15. Papenburg, B.J., Laura Vogelaar, Lydia A.M. Bolhuis-Versteeg, Rob G.H. 
Lammertink, Dimitrios Stamatialis, Wessling, Matthias One-step 
fabrication of porous micropatterned scaffolds to control cell behavior. 
Biomaterials 2007. 28: p. 1998-2009. 
16. Ayresa, C.B., G. L. Henderson, S. C. Taylor, L. Shultz, J. Alexander, J. 
Telemeco, T. A. Simpson, D. G. , Modulation of anisotropy in electrospun 
tissue-engineering scaffolds: Analysis of fiber alignment by the fast Fourier 
transform. Biomaterials, 2006. 27(5524-5534). 
17. Vleggeert-Lankamp, C.L.A.M., de Ruiter, G. C. W., Wolfs, J. F. C., Peˆgo, 
A. P. , van den Berg, R. J.  Feirabend, H. K. P. , Malessy, M. J. A. , Lakke 
E. A. J. F., Pores in synthetic nerve conduits are beneficial to regeneration. J 
Biomed Mater Res 2007. 80A: p. 965-982. 
 20
 
Figure 1. Representative scheme for bio-electrospinning setup 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Scanning Electron Microscopy photograph of the electrospun hollow 
PLLA fibers collected on a flat surface, showing the co-existence of larger and 
smaller fibers. 
 
 22
 
Figure 4. Scanning Electron Microscopy photograph of the electrospun 
hollow PLLA fibers collected at different rotating speeds (a) 0, (b) 100, (c) 200 
and (d) 300 rpm.  
 
Degrees
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
 In
te
ns
ity
    0 RPM 
100 RPM 
200 RPM
300 RPM
 
Figure 5. Orientation of the electrospun hollow PLLA fibers collected at 
different rotating speeds 
 
(c) (d) 
 24
 
Figure 8. Optical and corrsponding flurecent micrograph of the as spun 
bio-electrospun PLLA hollow fibers with cell. (a), (c) optical micrograph and 
(b), (d) corresponding flurecent microscope  
 
   
Figure 9. Optical micrograph of the bio-electrospun PLLA hollow fibers with 
PC12 cells at Day 3, note the beginning of the deformation of some of the cells.  
50µm 
