1當初申請計畫題目為『製備智慧型介孔氧化鋯的抗癌藥物載體及其動力學之研究』為規劃三
年期的計畫，因國科會只核准第 1年計畫部分，因此本計畫以綠色環保二氧化碳超臨界流體
為溶劑，進行介孔二氧化鋯材料製備，已經合成出的介孔材料具有高表面積。
如能將第一年所製備出具有介孔孔隙之二氧化鋯材料加以修飾其表面，使之與抗癌藥物具有
相容性，另二氧化鋯為生醫陶瓷，將有機會裝載抗癌藥物當作藥物載體。
摘要
以[Zr4+]水溶液/超臨界二氧化碳微乳液系統，加入聯胺溶液為沉澱劑可合成介孔群的氧化鋯
（氧化鋯），由此在不同反應溫度和壓力所製備的奈米結構（如表面積與形態），分別以比
表面積測定儀和電子顯微鏡(TEM)檢測。在固定反應溫度下，微乳液液滴間距離隨反應壓力
增加而增加。在 17.3 MPa 和 80℃下，可得到具有封閉孔直徑範圍在 5～150 奈米介孔和大孔
的網路結構化奈米結構。在 15.3 MPa 及 17.3 MPa 下，其無晶形氧化鋯前驅體具有極大的表
面積，其值分別為 86m2/g/ 及 178 m2/g。
關鍵字：反相微乳液，介孔，網路奈米結構，氧化鋯，超臨界二氧化碳流體
Abstract
Mesoporous clusters of zirconia (ZrO2) were synthesized in a [Zr4+](aq) /supercritical carbon
dioxide microemulsion by hydrazine solution as the precipitating agent, and the resulting
nanostructures (surface area, morphology) under different reaction temperatures and pressures were
determined by BET and TEM. The longer inter-droplet distance of microemulsion as the increased
reaction pressure at fixed temprature, the networked nanostructure with closed pores diameters was
in the range of 5~150 nm, mecropores and macropores, at 17.3 MPa and 80 oC. The specific surface
areas of the amorphous zirconia precursor were 86 m2/g at 15.3 MPa and 178 m2/g at 17.3 MPa.
Keywords: reverse microemulsions; mesoporous; network nanostructures; zirconia; supercritical
fluid carbon dioxide
3The inter-droplet distance can be varied to affect the degree of primary particle agglomeration and
the consequent formation of structures with controlled porosity after the addition of the
precipitating agent by varying the temperature and pressure. Appropriate amounts of aqueous
zirconyl nitrate hydrate (1 mol/L) and perfluoropolyether (PFPE, Aldrich) surfactant were mixed in
a 285 mL stainless steel high pressure reaction vessel. The continuous addition of liquid CO2
increased the pressure, and this stable reverse microemulsion was prepared at 80± 2 °C. An excess
of the precipitating agent—hydrazine solution—was used to neutralize the acidity of the
water-scCO2 mixture. (Ammonia can also be used as a precipitating agent, but can in principle react
with CO2 to form urea, and so was avoided in this study.) The nanoparticles aggregated and/or
settled at the bottom of the reaction tank, and the vessel was vented. The powder that comprised
amorphous hydrous zirconia18 was collected from the bottom of the vessel.
2. Experimental Procedure
Three mL of 1 mol/L aqueous zirconyl nitrate hydrate (Sigma) and 4 grams (6.7 mmoles)
perfluoropolyether (PFPE, Aldrich) surfactant were added into a 285 mL stainless steel
high-pressure reaction vessel. The vessel was sealed, and liquid CO2 was pumped into the vessel to
a pressure of 0.6 MPa, while stirring the reaction mixture with a magnetic stir bar. The temperature
of the vessel was then heated to 67 °C using a thermostatted water bath, further increasing the
pressure to about 1.1 MPa. During the heating, the CO2 can be observed through sapphire windows
in the vessel, and a phase change from liquid to supercritical fluid is seen at a pressure of about 0.76
MPa. To form a uniform, transparent microemulsion, additional CO2 was added to a final
temperature and pressure of 70 °C and 13.9 MPa. The aqueous/scCO2 microemulsion was stable for
>2 hr at pressures above 13.9 MPa at 70 °C. For safety reasons, the highest pressure used in the
reaction vessel was 17.3 MPa.
The precipitating agent, 0.04 moles of hydrazine solution in a 14 mol/L solution, was then injected
into the vessel via a 3-port injection. The pressure dropped quickly by about 0.3 MPa after the
addition, and the reaction mixture became turbid. After about 10 minutes, the reaction mixture
reclarified. After one hour of continuous stirring, the vessel was vented. Venting must be done
slowly in order to prevent the entrainment of the synthesized powder in the expelled gas. The
powder, consisting of zirconia precursor (zirconium hydroxide) [23], was collected from the bottom
of the vessel. The powder was repeatedly (>3X) washed with 50 mL ethanol and filtered, until the
color changed from a dark-yellow into a pale yellow. Finally, the powder was dried overnight at
room temperature (25 °C).
The zirconium oxide nanoparticles were then synthesized from the precursor hydroxide particles by
calcining the dried powder at 450 °C, then at 550 °C and finally at 650 °C, for 2 hr at each
temperature. Thermal analysis of zirconium oxide precursor calcination was performed at a heating
rate of 10 °C per minute in air (the same rate and conditions as the synthesis calcinations above),
using thermal gravimetric (TGA) and differential thermal analyses (DTA). The particle sizes of the
zirconia nanoparticles were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis, and
X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD) was employed to determine the crystal structure of ZrO2
5higher than isolate nanoparticles.
Figure 5 presents the TEM photograph of amorphous hydrous zirconia precursor at a
reaction pressure of 15.3 MPa. The specific surface area of the amorphous zirconia precursor was 86 m2/g. The
degree of agglomeration and the pore size of the agglomerates of amorphous hydrous zirconia
precursor differed between 15.3 MPa and 17.3 MPa. The irregular agglomerates that comprised
nanoparticles were found at 15.3 MPa; a three-dimensional network of interconnected nanoparticles
was observed at a reaction pressure of 17.3 MPa. Figures 4 and Figures 3(a) display the
agglomerates and the porous network nanostructure of amorphous hydrous zirconia precursor. Peck
et al. observed that the strength of droplet interactions in a water-in-scCO2 microemulsion was
observed to decline as the pressure increased at a fixed temperature.17, 24 The distances between the
CO2-philic tails (fluorinated side, -CF2-(OCF(CF3)CF2)n(OCF2)m-OCF3) of the droplets in a
water-in-scCO2 microemulsion drop as the strength of the droplet interactions increases. However,
the distance between the CO2-philic tails of the droplets increases as the attractive droplet
interactions become weaker.
Figure 6 schematically depicts the formation of porous materials from the amorphous
hydrous zirconia precursor. The droplets of aqueous solutions of zirconium ions are suspended in
the scCO2 to form a microemulsion via a self-assembly process. The strength of the CO2-philic tails
that are produced by droplet interactions is strong, reducing the inter-droplet distance (as shown in
route 1 in Figure 5). However, the strength of inter-droplet attraction is weak, and therefore cannot
increase the distance between the CO2-philic tails of the droplets, such as in route 2 in a stable
[Zr4+](aq)-in-CO2 microemulsion environment. When a precipitating agent is added to a stable
[Zr4+](aq)-in-CO2 microemulsion, the molecules of the precipitating agent run through the surfactant
layer to the droplets, where a reaction of the metal-containing compound occurs; subsequently,
nucleation and crystal growth of the precursor particles occur inside the droplets as the PFPE
molecule surfactants act as a template. These precursor particles tend to agglomerate and gradually
settle at the bottom of the reaction tank because the attractive forces (H-F hydrogen bonding and
van der Waals force) increase slowly during the release of pressure. Particles may cluster to form
agglomerates with low porosity, as in route 1, and they may form a large number of porous
agglomerates that comprise networked structures of particles, as in route 2, depending on the
strength of the inter-droplet interactions.
The strength of the droplet interactions fell at a constant temperature of 80 2 °C, causing
the range of the distances between the CO2-philic tails of the microemulsion droplets at 15.3 MPa to
be smaller than that at 17.3 MPa. Figure 5 (presents the formation of precursor agglomerates with
mesopores at 15.3 MPa, as in route 1. Agglomerates of inter-particle networked structures with pore
sizes from 5 nm to 150 nm (both were observed at 17.3 MPa, as in route 2 in Fig. 5. Consequently,
the size of the closed pores in the agglomerates can be controlled because the strength of the droplet
interactions in the CO2-philic tail interaction varies with pressure and temperature.
712. Arora, K. A.; Lesser, A. J.; McCarthy, T. J., Compressive behavior of microcellular polystyrene
foams processed in supercritical carbon dioxide. Polymer Engineering & Science 1998, 38,
(12), 2055-2062.
13. Howdle, S. M.; Watson, M. S.; Whitaker, M. J.; Popov, V. K.; Davies, M. C.; Mandel, F. S.;
Wang, J. D.; Shakesheff, K. M., Supercritical fluid mixing: preparation of thermally sensitive
polymer composites containing bioactive materials. Chemical Communications 2001, 109-110.
14. Cooper, A. I.; Holmes, A. B., Synthesis of Molded Monolithic Porous Polymers Using
Supercritical Carbon Dioxide as the Porogenic Solvent. Advanced Materials 1999, 11, (15),
1270-1274.
15. Shi, C.; Huang, Z.; Kilic, S.; Xu, J.; Enick, R. M.; Beckman, E. J.; Carr, A. J.; Melendez, R. E.;
Hamilton, A. D., The Gelation of CO2: A Sustainable Route to the Creation of Microcellular
Materials. Science 1999, 286, (5444), 1540-1543.
16. Butler, R.; Davies, C. M.; Cooper, A. I., Emulsion Templating Using High Internal Phase
Supercritical Fluid Emulsions. Advanced Materials 2001, 13, (19), 1459-1463.
17. Peck, D. G.; Johnston, K. P., Prediction of interfacial properties in microemulsions : the lattice
fluid self-consistent field theory. The Journal of Physical Chemistry 1993, 97, (21), 5661-5667
18. Stefanic, G.; Popovic, S.; Music, S., Influence of pH on the Hydrothermal Crystallization
Kinetics and Crystal Structure of ZrO2. Thermochim Acta 1997, 303, 31-39.
19. Sing, K. S. W.; Everett, D. H.; Haul, R. A. W.; Moscou, L.; Pierotti, R. A.; Rouquerol, J.;
Siemieniewska, T., Reporting physisorption data for gas/solid systems with special reference to
the determination of surface area and porosity Pure and Applied Chemistry 1985, 57, (4),
603-619.
20. Everett, D. H., Manual of Symbols and Terminology for Physicochemical Quantities and Units,
Appendix II: Definitions, Terminology and Symbols in Colloid and Surface Chemistry. Pure
and Applied Chemistry 1972, 31, (4), 578-638.
21. Brunauer, S.; Deming, L. S.; Deming, W. S.; E., T., On a Theory of the van der Waals
Adsorption of Gases. Journaal of Americam Chemical Soceity 1940, 62, 1723-1732.
22. Gregg, S. J.; Sing, K. S. W., Adsorption, Surface Area andPorosity. Second Edition ed.;
Academic Press: London, 1982.
23. Allen, T., in Particle size measurement. 4th ed.; Chapman and Hall: London, 1992.
24. Peck, D. G.; Johnston, K. P., Unified Classical and Molecular Thermodynamic Theory of
Spherical Water-in-Oil Mlcroemulsions. The Journal of Physical Chemistry 1991, 95, (21),
9549-9556
9(a) (b)
Fig. 3: TEM micrographs of nanoporous network structure of (a) amorphous hydrous zirconia
precursor and (b) zirconia nanoparticles synthesized in scCO2 microemulsion at a reaction
pressure of 17.3 MPa.
Fig. 4: Nitrogen adsorption/desorption isotherms of the Nitrogen for zirocina precursor and zirconia
at 17.3 MPa. Relative pressure P/P0, where P0 is the saturation pressure of bulk nitrogen.
ZrO2(circle), ZrO2 precursor (square) (open symbols desorption; closed ones adsorption).
赴國外出席國際會議返國會議報告
單 位 材 料 系 職 稱
助 理
教 授 姓 名 李 玫 樺
國 別 日 本
城 市
名 稱
神 戶 出席會議
起迄時間
民國 97 年 9 月 7 日起
至 97 9 月 11 日止
出席會議
名 稱
Fifth International Workshop on Molecularly Imprinted Polymers (MIP)
發表論文
名 稱
(會 議 心得請 依格式 繕寫於下 頁 )
Instant Formation of Molecularly Surface Imprinting Poly(ethylene -co-vinyl
alcohol)/Quantum Dots Shell -Core Nanopaticles and Their One-pot
Recognition for Urinalysis
會議心得報告：
一、研習心得
2008年9月7日至11日﹐第五屆分子拓印高分子國際研討會（Fifth International Workshop
on Molecularly Imprinted Polymers (MIP2008)）在日本神戶大學國際會議中心成功召開（圖一
所示），本次會議的會期為五天。MIP workshop每兩年舉辦一次，內容為分子拓印高分子的
應用與未來的研究方向趨勢。本屆大會共收到來自20多國家的二百多篇摘要論文，經過委會
嚴格評選選出10%（二十八篇）為口頭報告、90%為海報展出。
（神戶大學國際會議中心外面可以鳥瞰整個神戶市區與港口）
圖一 研討會地點—神戶大學國際會議中心
本次 MIP 2008 國際研討會議提供了一個相當好的知識交流平台，提供與會的研究者交換
最新的研究。此會議安排的議程非常緊湊，在這五天會期內總共有六個 Plenary lecture 及二十
六個 Invited lectures 大師演講，再加上二十八篇論文的口頭報告，其內容根據 MIP 的應用分
為五個大主題分為：New concepts、Sensors 、Nano、Separation 及 Bio，大家齊聚一堂共同討
論拓印高分子在各種不同領域的最新研究成果與應用。許多資深學者都參與此會議，聆聽了
很多精闢演講其頭影片內容如圖二所示：
本屆大會來自台灣總共約十篇的論文在此會議中發表，我們總共發表3篇論文，其中一
篇 題 目 為 『 Instant formation of molecularly surface imprinting poly(ethylene-co-vinyl
alcohol)/quantum dots shell-core nanopartilces and their one-pot recognition for urinalysis』被選
為口頭報告，共同指導的學生何旻賢同學進行口頭報告，其報告情形如圖三所示，何同學雖
然是碩二同學，他知道論文被選為口頭報告後，就專心準備報告，非常認真，雖然是他第一
次在國際會議上台報告，其表現相當出色！
圖三 學生上台口頭報告情形
另外，有兩篇題目分別『 Molecularly imprinting of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine on
poly(ethylene-co-vinyl alcohol thin film for the detection of oxidative and damage from the
urinary excretion』及『Microcontact imprinting of rhodopseudomonas sphaeroides for the
immobilization production of hydrogen in biofuel cells』，為海報方式發表。海報張貼方面，在
觀賞別人的海報時，也聽取作者本身的敘述，發現有很多新穎的實驗方式，。從中觀察到世
界各國在研究上創新與用心，實驗的動機及應用，更能體會學術專業領域上的激烈競爭。另
外，在海報展示過程中，有不少人在我們的海報前仔細觀賞及拍照，並交流其研究結果，可
見我國現今的方向也符合世界潮流。我們的海報如圖四所示，能與世界多個國家的頂尖實驗
室一起進行學術性的交流，有機會做更多的呈現收穫豐富。
