Abstract: - This study presents a novel, rapid, and effective point simplification 
algorithm based on a point cloud without any normal and connectivity information. 
This study is initiated with a scattered sampled point set in three dimensions, and the 
final output is a triangular mesh model, which is simplified according to a restrictive 
criteria. The proposed method reduces the number of calculations required to establish 
the relation between triangulation and the connectivity. Due to the continuous 
development of computer graphics technology, diversified virtual reality applications 
are being increasingly adopted. Recently, the efficient and vivid portrayal of 3D 
objects in the real world in virtual scenes has become a crucial issue in computer 
graphics. A triangular mesh is one of the most popular data structures for representing 
3D models in applications. Numerous methods currently exist for constructing objects 
using surface reconstruction. The data required for the sampled points are generally 
obtained from a laser scanner. However, the extracted sampled points are frequently 
affected by shape variation. The number of triangles created increases with the 
number of points sampled from the surface of a 3D object, which helps in the 
reconstruction of the correct model. Nevertheless, subsequent graphics applications, 
such as morphing or rendering, increase the computation costs. Appropriate relevant 
points should be chosen so as to retain the object features and reduce the storage 
space and calculation costs. 
 
Key-Words: - point simplification, discrete shape operator, feature extraction, 
curvature, torsion. 
 
1 Introduction 
[1] Due to recent advances in computer graphics field, the efficient and realistic 
representation of 3D models has become an important topic. However, displaying 
realistic scenes and models in a virtual environment typically depends on triangular 
mesh models. In general, the creation of a triangular mesh model includes the steps of 
acquisition, processing, and rendering. The first step is the acquisition of the 3D point 
information of a physical object. By using a 3D laser scanner, the 3D digital contents 
can be obtained. In the processing step, 3D models are processed further, which 
includes spectral processing, Boolean operation, free-form deformation, morphing, 
interactive painting, brush painting, and so on. Finally, some rendering techniques are 
adopted to display the processed models. 
Although point-based rendering techniques have been developed, mesh-based 
rendering techniques continue to have wider applications. To obtain a good rendering 
result, a point cloud model must be reconstructed as a triangular mesh model. 
However, the number of triangles in the model increases with the quality of the model. 
 
2.2 Point Cloud Simplification 
Although reconstruction of a 3D mesh model from the sampled point cloud and 
performing simplification is the normal process, this sequence requires the 
establishment of a triangular mesh and connectivity prior to simplification. Therefore, 
point cloud simplification is an attractive approach. Point-based simplification is 
performed before reconstruction. If suitable relevant points can be extracted from a 
point cloud that represents the surface variation, then the number of calculations 
needed for reconstruction can be significantly reduced. Dey et al. [9] presented the 
first point cloud simplification approach, and adopted local feature sizes to detect the 
redundancy in the input point cloud and to ensure relevant point densities; this was 
accomplished by exploiting a 3D Voronoi diagram. Boissonnat and Cazals et al. [3] 
presented a coarse-to-fine point simplification algorithm that randomly calculates a 
point subset and constructs a 3D Delaunay triangulation. These algorithms must adopt 
pre-processing to retain the original surface data before simplifying the point set, and 
therefore require many computations. 
Pauly et al. [7] applied four mesh-based simplification techniques to point cloud 
simplification. Alexa et al. [4] proposed the uniform simplification of the point set by 
estimating the distance from a point to the moving least square (MLS) surface. 
Moenning and Dodgson et al. [2] presented an intrinsic coarse-to-fine point 
simplification algorithm that guarantees uniform or feature-sensitive distribution. 
However, their method requires many computations and a large memory. 
This study presents a rapid and effective point cloud simplification algorithm 
before discussing surface reconstruction and surface simplification. This study adopts 
the DSO to find the weight of the features of the 3D model, and it presents a novel 
method for extracting the relevant points for a dense input point set; it finally adopts 
the reconstruction algorithm proposed by Dey et al. [10] to generate the simplified 
model. 
 
3. Discrete Shape Operator 
If p is a point on a surface M, then for each tangent vector v to M at p, let Sp(v) = −∇v 
N. Here, N denotes a unit normal vector field in the neighborhood of p on M, and Sp is 
called the shape operator of M at p and is derived from N, as shown in Fig. 1. 
 
 
Figure 2. Diagram of curvature calculation, 
( ) ( )   n  nP11P d/TT.........d/TT   k −++−= . 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Diagram of torsion calculation, ( ) ( )  d/BB.........d/BB nnP11P −++−=τ . 
 
A point cloud model consists of only point information. Therefore, to estimate 
the shape operator of the local surface in a point cloud model, the local sampling 
approach and the concept of discretization must be adopted. In this study, we adopted 
the local sampling approach proposed by Gopi et al. [6]. This approach can adaptively 
estimate the sampling region according to the point distribution, and it can also 
decrease the occurrence of oversampling. Figure 4 shows the feature extraction results 
of point cloud models. Greener vertices indicate that the features are flatter. On the 
contrary, redder vertices show that they have a high variation. 
 
Figure 5. Taking ms adjacent points of p. 
 
4.2. To find the normal of each point 
To find the normal of each point p, the best-fit plane for pN  is calculated. In this 
study, it is calculated as the least-square fitting plane with perpendicular offsets. Let 
d(q) denote the perpendicular distance from a neighboring point q to the unknown 
plane that we are attempting to find. The least-square fitting plane with perpendicular 
offsets is the plane that minimizes ∑
=
k
1i
2)q(d , i.e., it is the plane in which the sum of 
squares of the perpendicular distance from the neighboring points is a minimum (as 
illustrated in 2D in Fig. 6). The normal is then set to be the normal of the best-fit 
plane of pN . 
 
(a) (b) 
Figure 6. Least-square fitting plane: (a) Points in pN  and (b) a least-square fitting 
plane with perpendicular offsets corresponding to these neighboring points.  
 
4.3. To determine the DSO of each point 
After estimating the unit normal vector, this study employs the unit normal vector and 
Np to estimate the discrete shape operator (DSO(p) ) at each sampled point p. 
 
4.4. To determine the sequence of decimation 
The vertex pair contraction [5] includes decimation operations that are generally 
arranged in a priority queue according to an error matrix that quantifies the errors 
caused by the decimation. However, this simplification algorithm requires a triangular 
mesh and connectivity in advance. In order to apply the strategy of Garland et al. [5], 
this study assumes the vertices qi in the region Np as the virtual edge ipq . We sort the 
vertices qi of Np and obtain the virtual triangles △pqiqj. The proposed algorithm refers 
to Garland’s study, and includes six major steps that can be described as follows: 
 
1. Calculate the quadric error metric and DSO(p) of each vertex p. 
The quadric error metric is Q(p) = DSO(p)．ΣKm, where m denotes the plane 
that contains the point p and Km represents the 4 × 4 metric of the plane m. 
vertex-pair contraction [5], which simplifies to the required simplified percentage. 
The average execution time of reconstruction first method is 124.62 seconds. The 
average execution time of simplification first method is 43.23 seconds. The average 
improve time ratio is approximately 65.3%. The improve time ratio = (TimeR –TimeS) / 
TimeR. 
 
  
Figure7. Reconstruction results for models at different simplification percentage. 
 
     
     
2500 points 5000 points original 5000 points 2500 points 
Figure 8. Point distribution in simplified Venus models. The results of using the 
proposed method obtained using DSO (left half) and without DSO (right half) are 
shown. The DSO for the point cloud model is shown in the middle. The result of the 
proposed method using DSO can be used to obtain the feature-sensitive point 
distribution. 
 
[7] M. Pauly, M. Gross, and L. P. Kobbelt, “Efficient Simplification of Point-Sampled 
Surfaces”, In Proc. 13th IEEE Visualization Conf., 2002, pp. 163 - 170. 
[8] P. Cignoni, C. Rocchini, and R. Scopigno, “Metro: measuring error on simplified 
surfaces”, Computer Graphics Forum, Vol.17, No.2, 1998, pp.167 – 174 
[9] T. K. Dey, J. Giesen, and J. Hudson, “Decimating Samples for Mesh Simplification”, 
In Proc. 13th Canadian Conference on Computational Geometry, 2001, pp. 85 - 88. 
[10] T. K. Dey and S. Goswami, “Tight Cocone: A water tight surface reconstructor”, Proc. 
8th ACM Sympos. Solid Modeling Appl., 2003,pp. 127 – 134 
 
An Efficient Meshless Model Simplification Method 
Pai-Feng Lee 
Department of Information Management, Hsing Wu College 
093094@mail.hwc.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
This study proposes an effective meshless model 
simplification to retain the physical features of models. 
The meshless model only contains the point 
coordinates without normal and connectivity 
information. A discrete shape operator (DSO) is 
adopted to extract the feature vertices of meshless 
model, and the feature vertices are postponed to 
simplify. The proposed method improves the vertex 
pair contraction [9]; this study not only effectively 
simplifies the model while retaining the features but 
also decreases the time cost. This study also proposes 
a method to obtain unique simplified model. The 
unique simplified model obtained by this study can 
significantly reduce the computation cost about 72.8% 
than mesh simplification which reconstruct original 
points first. 
1. Introduction 
To obtain a good rendering result, a 
meshless model must be reconstructed as a 
triangular mesh model. Surface reconstruction 
method provides an effective approach to 
create triangular mesh models, but the costs 
of model storage or computation increase. 
Accordingly, how to achieve triangle 
reduction under the condition of maintaining 
the contour of the objects has been a major 
issue in this field recently. The mesh 
simplification techniques were proposed to 
reduce the number of triangles in the models 
and maintain precise object features. The 
steps for 3D digital content creation are 
shown in Fig. 1. 
Obviously, meshless simplification is an 
attractive approach. Meshless simplification 
is applied before surface reconstruction. If 
suitable relevant points can be extracted from 
a meshless model, then the number of 
calculations needed for reconstruction can be 
significantly reduced. 
 
Figure 1. The diagram of 3D digital content creation. 
2. Related Work 
2.1. Mesh simplification 
The mesh simplification methods can be 
divided into several types, including vertex 
decimation [15], vertex clustering [7], edge 
contraction [1], triangle contraction [5], and 
vertex pair contraction [9]. All of the above 
mesh simplification methods share a single 
objective: to reduce the number of triangles 
under the condition that the models can be 
maintained as well as possible. However, the 
difficulty of preserving the model outline 
increases with decreasing number of 
triangles. 
Taking the vertex pair contraction proposed 
by Garland [9] for example, which identified 
as one of the best simplification methods in 
recent years. This method has decimation 
operations that are generally arranged in a 
priority queue according to an error matrix 
that quantifies errors caused by decimation. 
Simplification is performed iteratively to 
distance ∑
=
−
n
1i
ii P ) d TT  ( , where n denotes 
the number of adjacent points around 
sampling point p; T is the tangent vector of 
sampling point p and its adjacent points, and 
d denotes the distance between sampling 
point p and adjacent point. 
3.2. Torsion calculation 
The torsion measures the curve deviation 
from the plane formed by tangent line and 
normal line. The torsion of point p can be 
estimated from the relationship between the 
binormal vectors of point p and its adjacent 
points by summing the differences of 
binormal vectors of point p and each of its 
neighboring points divided by the individual 
distance )  ||  || ( i
1
dBB ip
n
i
−∑
=
, where B denotes 
the binormal vector of each point. 
3.3. The estimation of DSO 
A meshless model only has point 
information. Therefore, in order to estimate 
the shape operator on a meshless model, the 
sampling approach must be adopted. 
According to the definition of shape operator 
( 22k τ+ ), we can use the point p and its 
neighbor points Np to estimate the DSO(p) at 
p.  
Figure 2 shows the extraction results of 
meshless models. Bluer vertices indicate they 
are flatter. On the contrary, redder vertices 
show that they have high variation surfaces. 
Experimental results show that the DSO can 
find the high variation vertices. 
 
     
 
Figure 2. The feature vertices detection. 
 
4. Meshless Simplification Algorithm 
In this study, the proposed algorithm 
only takes the meshless model as inputs. 
No addition information such as normals 
of points or user defined parameters is 
obtained. The steps of the proposed 
meshless simplification method are as 
follow. 
4.1. To determines the localized neighbor 
For efficiency, the meshless models are 
analyzed locally. The set of neighbor points of 
p is denoted as region Np. In this study, the 
selection of Np is according to the density 
distribution. The density evaluation of model 
is to find the closest point to each sampling 
point and average the shortest distance (SAvg). 
Assume the average distance (SAvg) as the 
density of model and then use the value adds 
two standard deviation to subdivide the 
meshless model. The uniform subdivision 
( )
( ) ( )
pKppMMp
pplanesM
M
T
pplanesM
TT ⋅⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛⋅=⋅⋅⋅= ∑∑
∈∈
 
pQpT ⋅⋅=      (2) 
 
where KM, called the fundamental error 
quadric, can be represented as the 
following equation. 
 
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
=⋅=
2
2
2
2
T
M
dcdbdad
cdcbcac
bdbcbab
adacaba
MMK  
 
The Quadric Error Metric is Q(p) = DSO(p) 
×Σ KM. In the equation, M denotes the 
plane that contains the point p and KM 
represents 4×4 metric of the plane M. 
 
2. Choose each virtual edge (pi, pj) pair to 
calculate the minimum error produced 
due to simplification, where pj is the 
neighbor of pi. 
3. Choose the lowest error vertex pair (pi, pj) 
as an object of simplification. 
4. Contract the vertex pair (pi, pj) into p’ 
and calculate its Q, where 
)Q(QQ
ji' pp)(p += . 
For a given contraction ( ) ', ppp ji → , p’ is 
chosen either pi or pj to obtain the minimal 
error. 
5. Update all the information of the 
vertices adjacent to pi and pj. 
6. Repeat the previous steps until the 
assigned conditions are reached. 
 
Through previous calculation, the 
requested DSO is obtained and taken as a 
weight to modify the Quadric Error Metric of 
vertex pair contraction. The DSO helps to 
postpone the simplification ranking of feature 
vertices and maintain the object feature. 
4.3. To determine the meshless simplification 
algorithm 
Considering the surface reconstruction, the 
meshless model cannot simplify unrestricted. 
We define the k percentage of virtual feature 
edge to be retained. If the guarantee is fail, 
then raise ε percentage to maintain the degree 
of feature dynamically. Unique simplified 
results can be obtained for each meshless 
model and guarantee the simplified model can 
be reconstructed successfully. Table 1 lists the 
unique simplified results. The simplified rate 
is about 12.4%. 
 
Table 1 The unique simplified results. 
Model 
original
points 
Simplified 
points 
Simplified 
rate (%) 
ErrorR
Venus 134345 22466 16.72 0.0022
Armadillo 172974 25730 14.88 0.0058
Lion 183008 19948 10.9 0.024 
Isis 187644 23181 12.35 0.0084
Planck 199169 14379 7.22 0.009 
 
4.4. To reconstruct the unique simplified 
model 
The unique simplified model adopts the 
reconstruction algorithm improved by Gopi 
[10]. The simplified model mentioned in this 
study contains not only point ordinate 
information but also the normal and DSO 
values, and the localized neighbor required 
during surface reconstruction are obtained 
from the remaining virtual edges using the 
meshless simplification process. Therefore, 
the pre-calculation for surface reconstruction 
algorithm is unnecessary and only 
triangulation is necessary. 
The proposed triangulation method 
comprises seven steps, which are listed below, 
where p denotes the seed point. 
1. Project Np onto the tangent plane of p. 
2. Eliminate the occluding part from the 
sampling region Np. 
3. Sort the projected Np. 
