 2
1. Introduction 
Characteristic of pentacene film for OTFT application is closely related to the deposition 
parameters and the gate dielectric properties. It is well known that the gate dielectric properties 
strongly affect the morphology and the structural properties of pentacene films. This includes 
not only the roughness but also the surface wetting properties of the gate dielectric. Therefore, 
the gate dielectric always plays an important role in determining the characteristic of pentacene 
film. The lower surface energy and smoother surface of gate dielectric can affect significantly 
the crystalline, microstructure of pentacene and the electrical properties of an OTFT.  
Effect of the roughness and the surface energy of organic or inorganic gate dielectrics on 
the crystalline, microstructure and mobility of pentacene OTFT have been reported 
respectively.[1,2]. For the inorganic gate dielectric, high roughness and high surface energy of 
gate dielectric are both contributed to small grain size of pentacene, resulting in low mobility. 
On the other hand, for the organic gate dielectric, the grain size of pentacene decreases with 
increasing the roughness or surface energy of the gate dielectric, however, the opposite trend of 
the mobility increased with a decrease in grain size or no significant change in mobility with a 
decrease in grain size since the more efficient charge transfer through better connected and 
lower angle grain boundaries, were observed. The conflicting results have been explored by 
correlation between the film morphology, growth mode of the pentacene and charge mobility 
of OTFT.[3]      
In general, polymer gate dielectrics exhibit a relatively low dielectric constant, however, 
the use of a high dielectric constant gate dielectric lowering the operation voltage of TFT is 
one of main technical trends. Therefore, some high-k nanoparticle inorganic powders such as 
TiO2 or BaTiO3 were added into a polymer such as PI, PVP and PVA to form a nanocomposite 
that has a higher dielectric constant. A common problem associated with the inorganic-organic 
composites is the incompatibility. When two different materials were mixed, the TiO2 
 4
min−1. After curing, the substrates were allowed to cool naturally to room temperature. For the 
double-layer gate dielectrics, the bottom layer of a 3000-4000-Å-thick nanocomposite gate 
dielectric layer was deposited by spin coating on the glass substrate. After being soft baked at 
80˚C for 5 min, the top layer ∼1000 Å -thick neat polyimide gate dielectric layer was deposited 
by spin coating on the nanocomposite gate dielectric. The films were then soft baked in an 
oven at 80˚C for 5 min; followed by curing at 180˚C for 30 min.    
 To evaluate the dielectric properties, such as dielectric constant and leakage current, a 
1000-Å Au electrode was thermally evaporated through the shadow mask on the 
nanocomposite insulator for the source and drain contacts to form a metal-insulator-metal 
(MIM) structure. The current-voltage (I-V) characteristics were measured with an HP 4156B 
semiconductor parameter analyzer and the capacitance-voltage characteristics were determined 
using an HP 4284 impedance analyzer. All the measurements were performed under dark and 
shielded conditions.  
For the bottom-contact TFT structure, pentacene film was deposited as an organic 
semiconductor layer at a rate of 1 Å /s on three types of gate dielectric film under a base 
pressure of about 1.6 x10-6 torr. Its thickness was about 1000 Å. For the source and drain 
contacts, Au was thermally evaporated through another shadow mask with a channel. All the 
OTFTs had a bottom-contact geometry with a channel length (L) and width (W) of 240 µm and 
480 µm, respectively. The film thickness and roughness were measured by a DI 3100 series 
atomic force microscope (AFM). The electrical characterization of the devices was done in the 
dark. I-V characteristics of OTFTs were measured with an HP 4156B semiconductor parameter 
analyzer. .  
3. Results and discussion 
3-1. Morphology and dielectric properties of gate dielectrics 
Figure 1 –a,-b and –c respectively show the AFM images of the surface of the neat polyimide, 
 6
saturation current that significantly reduces the threshold voltage. The threshold voltages for 
pentacene deposited on the neat polyimide and double-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric are 
-16 V and -10V, respectively. By the way, very promising performance of current on/off ratio 
(> 105) can be observed for the pentacene deposited on the neat polyimide and the double-layer 
nanocomposie gate dielectrics. However, the current on/off ratio decreased strongly when 
pentacene was deposited on the single-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric. The drain current at 
the positive gate voltage might come from leakage through the gate dielectric when a positive 
voltage was applied from +20 to -10 V. Therefore, the difference in current on/off ratio of 
OTFT devices in our study can be mainly attributed to the leakage current density of the gate 
dielectrics. This indicates that a strong correlation between morphology and leakage current 
density of the gate dielectric film is reflected in OTFT device performance. In previous studies 
on the nanocomposite gate dielectrics[6], the performance of the current on-off ratio of the 
pentacene OTFT device deposited on the nanocomposite gate dielectric was always much 
worse than that deposited on the neat polymer gate dielectric. However, in our work, because a 
homogeneous film of the double-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric was obtained, the level of 
leakage current density of the double-layer nanocomposite is comparable to that of neat 
polyimide. Thus, the current on-off ratio of the OTFT device deposited on the double-layer 
nanocomposite gate dielectric exhibiting a higher saturation current is even higher than that 
deposited on the neat polyimide gate dielectric. The saturation mobility of the pentacene 
deposited on the neat polyimide and the double-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric are 0.16 
and 0.15, respectively.  
3.3 Analysis on phase and microstructure of pentacene 
The crystalline of pentacene deposited on different gate dielectric were examined by XRD. 
Fig. 5-(a), (b) and (c) shows, respectively, the diffraction pattern of pentacene deposited on the 
neat polyimide, single-layer nanocomposite and double-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric, 
which consists mainly of one phase with the first-order diffraction peak at 5.73°, corresponding 
 8
grains.[10] Interestingly, the mean grain size of the pentacene deposited on the double-layer 
nanocomposite gate dielectric are approximately 0.25μm, which are smaller than of that 
deposited on the single-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric (0.6μm). This result indicates that 
a strong correlation between roughness of gate dielectric and the mean grain size of the 
pentacene film. In general, the small grain size of pentacene with high grain boundary density 
can cause significantly decrease of mobility because grain boundaries can act as trap sites in 
charge transport and limit the carrier mobility in OTFT which is contradictory to our 
results[11]. As the roughness of the nanocomposite was increased, the grain size observed by 
AFM increased, as seen elsewhere. In the early stage of pentacene growth on the 
nanocomposite, an increased nucleation density of pentacene islands on the double-layer 
nanocomposite gate dielectric was observed in comparison to that on the single-layer 
nanocomposite gate dielectric. Therefore, although the surface energy of the single-layer 
nanocomposite gate dielectric and double-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric are comparable, 
the difference in the nucleation density and the grain size of pentacene growth between two 
nanocomposite gates dielectrics is associated with the roughness-valley effect on film 
morphology.[12]  
Based on the discussion given above, the growth model of pentacene on three type of gate 
dielectric was proposed, as shown in Fig. 8. The high surface energy of the neat polyimide gate 
dielectric increase the wetting of pentacene and enhance the interaction between the pentacene 
and the surface of the nanocomposite gate dielectric, so the first molecules condensed form a 
monolayer with some voids on the surface and the growth of incomplete subsequent layers 
limit the transport of charge carriers, resulting in low mobility, in spite of the formation of 
larger grain in thick ( 50nm) pentacene film on the neat polyimide gate dielectric.  
In contrast, the low surface energy of the nanocomposite gate dielectrics lower the wetting 
of pentacene and minimizes the interaction between the pentacene and the surface of the 
nanocomposite gate dielectric, therefore, three-dimensional island were formed in the initial 
 10
dielectric. A pentacene deposited on the double-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric 
exhibits very dense microstructure and fine grain size, reflecting to very promising 
performance of OTFT device, including high current on-to-off ratio of about 6x105, 
threshold voltage of –10 V and moderately high field mobility of 0.16 cm2V-1s-1.  
Acknowledgement 
The authors would like to acknowledge the financial support under contract No. 
NSC97-2221-E-006-008 
References 
[1]. Z. Bao, Y. Feng, A. Dosabalapur, V. R. Raju, A. Lovinger, Chem. Mater., 9, 1299, (1997) 
[2]. S. Y. Park, M. Park, and H.H. Lee, Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 2283 (2004) 
[3]. J. H. Schon, Z. Bao, J. Appl. Phys. 89, 3526 (2001) 
[4]. Fang-Chung Chen, Chih-Wei Chu, Jun He, and Yang Yang, Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 3295 
(2004). 
[5]. C. Jung, A. Maliakai, A. Sidorenko, and T. Siegrist, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 62111 (2007) 
[6]. J. Park, S. I.Kang, S. P. Jang and J. S. Choi , SID 05 Digest, 237, (2005). 
[7]. Kwonwoo Shin, Chanwoo Yang, Sang Yoon Yang, Hayoung Jeon, and Chan Eon Park, 
Appl. Phys. Lett., 88, 072109, (2006) 
[8]. Soeren Steudel, Stijn De Vusser, Stijn De Jonge, Dimitri Janssen, Stijn Verlaak, Jan Genoe, 
and Paul Heremans,  Appl. Phys. Lett., 85, 19, (2004) 
[9]. S.Y. Yang, K. Shin, and C.E. Park, Adv. Funct. Mater. 15, 1806 ( 2005) 
[10].D. Knipp, R.A. Street, A. Volkel, and J. Ho, J. Appl. Phys. 93, 347 (2003) 
[11]. R. A. Street, D. Knipp, and A. R. Völkel, Appl. Phys. Lett., 80, 1658, (2002) 
 12
Table caption  
1. Table (I) Electrical properties of MIM and OTFT device based on three types of gate 
dielectrics 
2. Table (II) Roughness and surface energies of three types of gate dielectric. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14
 
 
 
 
Table II 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 16
8. Fig.8 -(a),-(b) and-(c)  Proposed growth models of pentacene deposited respectively on the 
neat polyimide, the single-layer nanocomposite and the double-layer nanocomposite gate 
dielectric.  
9. Fig.9-(a) and -(b) SEM photographs of the cross section of the pentacene OTFTs deposited 
respectively on the single-layer and double-layer nanocomposite gate dielectric  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: W. H. Lee et al. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4: W. H. Lee et al. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6(a): W. H. Lee et Fig. 6(b): W. H. Lee et Fig. 6(c): W. H. Lee et 
 24
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8(a): W. H. Lee et        Fig. 8(b): W. H. Lee et      Fig. 8(c): W. H. Lee et 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
附件六 
國立成功大學補助博士班研究生出席國際會議報告 
 
       2009   年 5   月  26  日 
報告人姓名 王俊傑 系所及年級 電機所材料組博士班三
年級 
會議期間及地點 5.24-5.29 美國舊金山 各院核定補助
日期 
 2009 年 5 月 16  日 
 
會議名稱 (中文) 第 215 屆電化學研討會 
(英文) 215th ECS—The Electrochemical Society Meeting 
發表論文題目 (中文) 採用化學機械研磨平坦化之高介電值 PI 複合絕緣層應
用於有機薄膜電晶體 
(英文) Application of Chemical-mechanical Polishing for 
Planarizing a High-K Nano-composite Polyimide Insulator 
used in Organic Thin Film Transistors 
報告內容包括下列各項：（上傳至本校研發處 apple@cc.ncu.edu.tw，俾利上網刊
載） 
一、參加會議經過 
由於本次會議時間長達六天,因此我們無法完全參與,於是我們 26 號抵
達舊金山後,便直接前往會議現場,在 26 號的那天會議已經展開,26 號開始已
經是會議的重頭戲了,本次會議分為十個主題討論區,其中包含了介電&半導
體材料元件和一些先進的製程技術。而本次我們所投稿的論文是安排在 27
上午的時間進行 20 分鐘的口頭報告和討論。而在報告的過程中與會的學者
也都很積極且熱烈的討論。下午時間則是 poster 的海報展示及相關 JES 的書
籍展覽,同時這一次會議中。而我們也參與到會議的第三天主要還是個別主
題的與會討論。 
二、與會心得 
這一次 JES 的會議中可分為十個部分,一是概論與教學,二是電池材料
與能量轉換技術,三是生化與有機電化學,四是腐蝕、保護層和陽極薄膜,
五是介電&半導體材料元件和先進的製程技術,六是電化學、化學方式
的沉積和蝕刻製程,七是電化學之合成,八是磷光與奈米碳管等奈米結
構,九是物理分析電化學探討,十是感測器與面板。其中由於領域的相關
性,第五部分是我這次參加會議中花最多時間去參與的。綜觀現在學術
