 correlation and Spearman rank coefficients of 
microRNA and its target expression level for three 
Affymetrix chips.  
Table 1. General information provided by the databases 
used in the current study. 
Database General information provided 
TarBase experimentally tested miRNA target genes 
miRBase 
information for precursor microRNAs, 
mature microRNAs, FASTA sequences, and 
their target genes. 
NCI-60 human cancer cell lines mRNA and miRNA expression data 
OMIM human diseases genetic data 
TAG OCG, TCG and cancer related genes 
GO 
Three types of gene annotations; i.e. 
molecular function, biological process and 
subcellular localization 
KEGG Metabolic pathways, disease pathways 
2 MATERIALS AND METHODS 
It is known that microRNA binds with mRNA and 
can induce mRNA cleavage or inhibit translation. In 
order to investigate the regulatory role of microRNA 
in cancer diseases, we study the expression profiles 
correlation between microRNA and its target genes, 
in particular the OCG and TSG targets.  
Figure 1 depicted the process flowchart for 
identifying potential cancer related microRNAs. The 
microRNA-target pairs information is obtained from 
TarBase, whereas the expression profiles for 
microRNAs and mRNAs are retrieved from the 
NCI-60 dataset. Then, the expression profiles 
correlation between microRNA and its target genes 
are quantified by computing the correlation 
coefficients. If the microRNA and its target gene are 
direct interact, the correlation coefficient results 
should reveal significant negative values.  
MicroRNA target pairs with the correlation 
coefficients below a given threshold are filtered for 
further investigation. These pairs suggest a 
regulatory relationship between the microRNAs and 
their targets. The TAG dataset is used in order to sort 
out the microRNA-OCG and microRNA-TSG pairs. 
These pairs are further annotated by using the 
OMIM, GO and KEGG biomedical terms. With 
multiple biological annotations, i.e. disease type, 
relevant biological function and pathway, for the 
negative correlated pairs, this platform should 
provide helpful guidance for investigating the role of 
micorRNAs in tumor formation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Process flowchart to identify potential cancer 
related microRNAs based on quantifying the expression 
profile correlation between microRNA and its target genes. 
2.1 TarBase and miRBase datasets 
TarBase is a manually curated collection of 
experimentally tested microRNA target genes. Each 
experimentally validated target site is extracted from 
the literatures. TarBase includes several species, 
such as human, mouse, fruit fly, and worm, 
microRNA target gene records.  
There are many tools available for microRNA 
target genes prediction, such as miRanda (Enright et 
al., 2003), RNAhybrid (Kruger and Rehmsmeier, 
2006), and TargetScans 
(http://genes.mit.edu/tscan/targetscanS2005.html). A 
major problem of microRNA target genes prediction 
is that the prediction accuracy remains rather high, 
there were reports indicated that the false positive 
rate could be as high as 50% for human (John et al., 
2004), 24-39% and 22-31%  when using miRanda 
(Bentwich, 2005), and TargetScan (Bentwich, 2005) 
respectively. 
The primary goal of this work is to develop a 
bioinformatics tool to investigate the possibility that 
microRNA can act as an OCG or TSG. The main 
advantage of using TarBase in constructing the 
microRNA targeting information is that all the target 
genes recorded by TarBase are experiment verified, 
and TarBase provides their PubMed ID. From a 
biologist point of view, experimental verified targets 
imply higher confidence. If the miRNA:mRNA 
targeting part is uncertain, then any further results 
derived are doubtful. The TarBase version 5 dataset 
TarBase NCI-60 
Expression profile PCC, SRC calculation 
PCC or SRC less 
than -0.5 Integration of 
OMIM, TAG, 
KEGG, GO 
Inferring potential cancer-related microRNAs
 3. Methods 
3.1. Expression profiles correlation 
For a given cancer tissue type, we calculated both 
the Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) and 
Spearman rank coefficient (SRC), ρ, between the 
expression level of a microRNA and it's target genes. 
PCC or SRC is given by 
∑ ∑
∑
= =
=
−−
−−=
n
i
n
i ii
n
i ii
yyxx
yyxx
1 1
22
1
)()(
))((ρ               (1)  
 
where xi and yi denote the expression intensity of 
microRNA and the microRNA's target gene 
respectively; x  and y  denote the mean expression 
intensity of microRNA and the target gene 
respectively; and n is the total number of the 
expression data entries. In case of SRC, the 
expression intensity values of xi, yi, x  and y are 
replaced by their ranks. 
The PCC for each microRNA and Affymetrix 
RNA expression profile are computed for nine tissue 
types. PCC takes a value between -1 and +1. One of 
the troubles with quantifying the strength of 
correlation by PCC is that it is susceptible to being 
skewed by outliers. Outliers that is a single data 
point can result in two genes appearing to be 
correlated, even when all the other data points not. 
SRC is a non-parametric statistical method that is 
robust to outliers. It can ignore the magnitude of the 
changes. The idea of SRC is to transform the 
original values into ranks, and then to compute the 
correlation between the series of ranks. 
Gene expression values of microRNA and 
mRNA in the same tissue type are ordered in 
ascending order, the lowest value is assigned to rank 
one. In case of ties mid-rank is assigned, as for 
example, when both values are ranked five, a rank of 
5.5 is assigned. After ranking the expression profiles 
of microRNA and mRNA for a particular tissue, 
SRC can be calculated by Eq. (1), with the ranks and 
the average value of ranks of microRNA and mRNA 
are used instead of the expression intensity and 
average expression intensity. The SRC also takes a 
value between -1 and +1. 
4. Result 
Both the PCC and SRC of microRNA expression 
levels and their targeting mRNA expression levels 
for nine types of cancer tissues are computed.  
For example, microRNA hsa-miR-16 targets the 
breast cancer gene, BCL2, have PCC less than -0.7 
for the three Affymetrix datasets with three different 
normalization methods for each chip. The results are 
reported in Table 3. We can understand negative 
PCC (SRC) based on the following reasoning. It is 
known that microRNA is able to repress and/or 
cleavage mRNA by incomplete or complete 
complementary binding with the mRNA. If a 
microRNA and its target gene is directly interacting, 
the result of PCC (SRC) of their expression profiles 
should reveal negative correlation. Table 3 list the 
U95 results which suggested that microRNA, hsa-
miR-16, can possibly play a role in regulating the 
cancer gene BCL2. 
Table 3. PCC of the expression profile for hsa-miR-16 and 
BCL2 in the breast tissue. 
  Dataset Normalization PCC 
U95(A-E) GCRMA -0.918 
MAS5 -0.949 
RMA -0.718 
 
Downstream cancer targets are easily obtained by 
cross-referencing the target gene results with the 
TAG dataset. The results of cancerous genes found 
in both TarBase and TAG are listed in Table 4. 
 
Table 4. MicroRNA target genes which are corresponded 
with TAG entries. 
Cancer Gene Gene Symbols 
OCG 
AXL, BCL2, CCND1, CDK4, CTGF, 
ESR1, FGF20, KIT, MAP3K8, MYB, 
MYBL1, MYCN, RYK, TEAD1 
TSG 
CAV1, CDKN1A, CDKN1C, CDKN2A, 
HTATIP2, MXI1, NF2, PTEN, PTPN12, 
RB1, SERPINB5, TGFBR2 
4.1 Evaluation of results by OMIM 
Disease disorder keywords provided by the OMIM, 
is compared with the negative (under or equal to -0.5) 
PCC results. It is found that 82 entries involved in 
disease disorder. Among these 82 entries, 19 are 
cancer genes. In these cancer genes, only 17 entries 
belong to the nine cancer types. Table 5 presents 
five of the 17 OMIM entries. 
Table 5. The 17 OMIM entries with negative PCC (≦ -0.5) 
and their corresponding cancerous types. 
OMIM ID Gene Symbol Cancerous Types 
605882 BACH1 Breast 
151430 BCL21 Leukemia 
168461 CCND1 Colon 
123829 CDK41 Melanoma 
 Final, we set up a web based service to provide 
the computed results. The web site is availabled at 
http://ppi.bioinfo.asia.edu.tw/mirna_target/index.html. 
5. CONCLUSION 
Recent studies indicate that microRNA could 
possibly play an important role in human cancer, 
where microRNA targets TSG or doesn’t target 
OCG. Experimentally verified microRNA targeted 
genes information (TarBase) are integrated with 
microRNA and mRNA expression data (NCI-60) to 
study this hypothesis, in which two correlation 
coefficients, PCC and SRC, are used to quantify the 
correlation between microRNA and its targets 
expression profiles. The predicted results are 
evaluated with reference to the OMIM and KEGG 
data. It is found that the obtained results are rather 
independent of the chip types and the normalization 
methods too.  
In the OMIM evaluation with both PCC and SRC 
less than or equals to -0.5, five pairs of negative 
correlated microRNA and its target genes matched 
with OMIM records, in which four of them belong 
to leukemia and the rest one is lung cancer. In these 
five pairs, only one of them is an OCG, i.e. 
MAP3K8. Besides, we also got five pairs of 
significantly negative correlated microRNA and its 
target in prostate cancer in which both of PCC and 
SRC are under or equals to -0.5. Among these five 
pairs, only one gene is a TSG, i.e. CDKN2A, and 
only two genes are OCGs, i.e. CCND1 and 
MAP3K8. These five pairs can be browsed in Table 
5 in which they are denoted with italic and bold font. 
Similar conclusions are obtained for the KEGG 
evaluation. 
Given that more than half of the probes’ 
correlation coefficients are negative correlated, we 
identified certain putative pairs of microRNA and its 
cancer related targets in different cancer types, such 
as, hsa-mir-24-1:CDKN2A and hsa-mir-24-
2:CDKN2A in prostate cancer and hsa-mir-
19a:PTEN in both leukemia and prostate cancer. 
It is suggested that those negative correlated pairs of 
microRNA and target can be subjected to further 
investigation, such as performing in vivo 
experiments to valid the hypothesis that microRNA 
could possibly play an important role in human 
cancer. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
K-L Ng work is supported by the National Science 
Council of R.O.C. under the grant of NSC 98-2221-
E-468-013 
REFERENCES 
Bentwich I. 2005. Prediction and validation of 
microRNAs and their targets. FEBS Lett., 579, 5904. 
Blower P.E., Verducci JS, Lin S, Zhou J, Chung JH, Dai Z, 
Liu CG, Reinhold W, Lorenzi PL, Kaldjian EP, Croce 
CM, Weinstein JN, Sadee W., 2007. MicroRNA 
expression profiles for the NCI-60 cancer cell panel, 
Mol. Cancer Ther., 6, 1483-1491. 
Chan Hsiang-Han 2006. Identification of novel tumor-
associated gene (TAG) by bioinformatics analysis. 
MSc. Thesis, Institute of Molecular Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan. 
Enright, A.J., John, B., Gaul, U., Tuschl, T., Sander, C., 
Marks, D.S., 2003. MicroRNA targets in Drosophila. 
Genome Biology, 5(1):R1. 
Garzon Ramiro, Fabbri Muller, Cimmino Amelia, Calin 
George A. and Croce Carlo M., 2006. MicroRNA 
expression and function in cancer. Trends in 
Molecular Medicine, 12, 580-588. 
Gene Ontology Consortium 2006. The Gene Ontology 
(GO) project in 2006. Nucl. Acids Res, 34, D322–326. 
Griffiths-Jones S., Grocock Russell J., van Dongen Stijn, 
Bateman Alex, Enright Anton J., 2006. miRBase: 
microRNA sequences, targets and gene nomenclature. 
Nucl. Acids Research, 34, 140-144. 
He Xiaoting, Cao Xiufeng 2007. MicroRNA and 
esophageal carcinoma. J.N.M.U., 21, 201-206. 
John B., Enright A.J., Aravin A., Tuschl T., Sander C., 
Marks D.S., 2004. Human MicroRNA targets. PLoS 
Biol. 2(11), e363. 
Kanehisa M., Araki M., Goto S., Hattori M., Hirakawa M., 
Itoh M., Katayama T., Kawashima S., Okuda S., 
Tokimatsu T., and Yamanishi Y., 2008. KEGG for 
linking genomes to life and the environment. Nucl. 
Acids Res., 36, 480-484 
Kruger Jan and Rehmsmeier Marc 2006. RNAhybrid: 
miRNA target prediction easy, fast and flexible, 
Nucleic Acids Research, 34, 451-454. 
Lin Kuan-Ting, Liu Chia-Hung, Chiou Jen-Jie, Tseng 
Wen-Hsien, Lin Kuang-Lung, Hsu Chun-Nan 2007. 
Gene Name Service: No-Nonsense Alias Resolution 
Service for Homo Sapiens Genes. Proceedings of the 
2007 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conferences on 
Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology-
Workshops, 185-188. 
Sethupathy P., Corda B., Hatzigeorgiou A. 2005 TarBase: 
A comprehensive database of experimentally 
supported animal microRNA targets. RNA, 12, 192-
197. 
Shankavaram U.T., Uma T., Reinhold William C., 
Nishizuka Satoshi, Major Sylvia, Morita Daisaku, 
Chary Krishna K., Reimers Mark A., Scherf Uwe, 
Kahn Ari, Dolginow Douglas, Cossman Jeffrey, 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           99 年 1 月 27  日 
報告人姓名  
吳家樂 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
亞洲大學 
生物資訊系 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
20-23 Jan. 2010 
Valencia, Spain 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
NSC 98-2221-E-468-013 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2010 年 第一屆生物資訊國際研討會 
 (英文) First International Conference on Bioinformatics 2010 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 微型核糖核酸與癌症基因表達量之相關性分析 
 ( 英文 ) In silico study of expression profiles correlation between 
microRNAs and cancerous genes 
附件三
 
 表 Y04 
3
Jan. 20, 2010 
Interdisciplinary Synergies in Biomedical Engineering  
This session had all of the four invited speakers to give 10 minutes briefly summary of 
the keynote. After the presentation is a one hour opening discussion.  
z Interoperate, support paradigm shift, privacy 
z Too many parameters, how to interpret the results and make decision is difficult  
 
Keynote Speech 
HEALTH AND MEDICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS - A Demanding Perspective 
Prof. Rui M.C. Ferreira 
z Medical informatics is complicate; it involved different environments, and different 
staffs; such as physicians, nurses, patients, technicians, and administrators. 
z Hospital department organization – from local department to central system 
z Medical practice: a process of making decisions 
z The usage of IT systems has not been installed as a routine in hospital to make 
decision, so it implies a need for a deeper changes in the personnel health system (PHS)
z Concept: (1) data collection, data integration, knowledge acquisition, (2) health/medical 
information system (HIS/MIS) 
z Data from individual data Æ population-cohot level data Æ regional/national data 
z Avoid “text free” problem by standardizing the options (list of choices) 
z Similar user interface 
z HIS availability – everywhere, bed side, emergence room, operation room, iphone, NB 
 
Session 1 
SEGMENTATION OF SES FOR PROTEIN STRUCTURE ANALYSIS 
Virginio Cantoni, Riccardo Gatti and Luca Lombardi  
z Concepts of Van de Waal surface, solvent excluded surface (SES, a concavity volume), 
solvent accessible surface (SAS), convex Hall (CH) 
z SAS - Dilation operation from the mathematics morphology 
z SES - Erosion operation from the mathematics morphology of SAS 
z A propagation algorithm – joint connected areas 
z To find regions of interests : tunnels and pockets by back propagation 
z Practical case: first pocket is the deepest pocket 
 
PROTEIN DOMAIN PHYLOGENIES - Information Theory and Evolutionary Dynamics 
K. Hamacher 
z Study protein domain superfamily (SF) 
z Define information based distance 
z Signal to noise is better for domain than rRNA, PNAS (2005), 102, 373 
z Study selection on domain not DNA seq. 
z Start from genome data Æ HMM domains Æ feature vectors 
z House keeping genes evolve slower 
z KL distance for two domain which is a new measure of the evolution distance 
z Compute the distance of SF folds 
z Compute the Jansen-Shannon distance 
z Construct the NJ tree, then do a bootstrapping step 
z One is able to study the evolution dynamics of every domain, somewhat similar to the 
Poisson process 
 
 
 
 
 
 表 Y04 
5
BUILDING VERY LARGE NEIGHBOUR-JOINING TREES 
Martin Simonsen, Thomas Mailund and Christian N. S. Pedersen 
z developed a simple branch and bound heuristic, RapidNJ, which significantly reduces 
the average running time 
z The author presented two extensions of RapidNJ which reduce memory requirements 
and enable RapidNJ to infer very large phylogenetic trees efficiently.  
z also present an improved search heuristic for RapidNJ which improves RapidNJ’s 
performance on many data sets of all sizes 
 
Jan. 21, 2010 
 
Session 4 
STRUCTURE PREDICTION OF SIMPLE NON-STANDARD PSEUDOKNOT 
Thomas K. F. Wong and S. M. Yiu 
z Finding pseudoknot is an NP hard problem 
z Simple standard pseudoknot join in adjacent regions 
z Many classes of pseudoknot – consider a new class of pseudoknot structures, the simple 
non-standard pseudoknots (NSPK), cover more complicated secondary structures 
z No three bps cross each other 
z None of the previous algorithms can handle this class of pseudoknots. Only two of 
them, which run in O(m6) and O(m5) 
z Perform dynamics programming, provide a prediction algorithm that runs in O(m4) 
time for simple non-standard pseudoknots of degree 4 which already covers all known 
secondary structures of RNAs in this class 
z Need an energy model 
z In Rfam only 7 families out of ~ 1000 families have such NSPK 
 
REACTION KERNELS - Structured Output Prediction Approaches for Novel Enzyme 
Function 
Katja Astikainen, Esa Pitkänen, Juho Rousu, Liisa Holm and Sándor Szedmák 
z explore a structured output learning approach, where enzyme function—an enzymatic 
reaction—is described in fine-grained fashion with so called reaction kernels which 
allow interpolation and extrapolation in the output (reaction) space.  
z Two structured output models are learned via Kernel Density Estimation and Maximum 
Margin Regression to predict enzymatic reactions from sequence motifs 
 
PARALLEL CALCULATION OF SUBGRAPH CENSUS IN BIOLOGICAL NETWORKS
Pedro Ribeiro, Fernando Silva and Luís Lopes 
z calculating the frequency of all subgraphs of a certain size, also known as the subgraph 
census problem. 
z The subgraph census problem is computationally hard and the author present several 
parallel strategies to solve this problem. 
z The initial strategies were refined towards achieving an efficient and scalable adaptive 
parallel algorithm. This algorithm achieves almost linear speedups up to 128 cores 
z MAVISTO, FANMOD, MFINDERS 
 
Keynote Speech 
MOLECULES TO DEVICES - The Role of Engineering in Next Generation Point of Care 
Tests 
Tony Cass 
z Point of Care Tests (PoCT) offer many advantages in the management of disease 
z They require the discovery of new prognostic biomarkers, the engineering of molecular 
 表 Y04 
7
principle of HOLY, but improves HOLY by introducing a new algorithm for joining 
layouts 
z gives better visualization for many examples from MetaCyc, CADLIVE and HOLY. 
 
Session 7 
CONCEPTUAL MODELING OF HUMAN GENOME MUTATIONS - A Dichotomy 
Between what we Have and What we Should Have 
M. Ángeles Pastor, Verónica Burriel Coll and Óscar Pastor 
z the millions of mutations and polymorphisms that occur in human populations are 
potential predictors of disease 
z Finding sound strategies for going from the Genotype to the Phenotype 
z A systematic approach to large-scale analysis of Genotype-Phenotype correlations can 
be developed 
z stores the current information about genome mutations, Human Gene Mutation 
Database 
 
Jan. 22, 2010 
Session 8 
ON THE GRADIENT-BASED ALGORITHM FOR MATRIX FACTORIZATION 
APPLIED TO DIMENSIONALITY REDUCTION 
Vladimir Nikulin and Geoffrey J. McLachlan  
z better to describe the data in terms of a small number of metagenes, derived as a result 
of matrix factorization 
z based on decomposition by parts that can reduce the dimension of expression data from 
thousands of genes to several factors.  
z Unlike classification and regression, matrix decomposition requires no response 
variable and thus falls into category of unsupervised learning methods 
z demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach to the supervised classification of gene 
expression data, i.e. the colon cancer, leukemia, lymphoma 
 
Keynote Speech 
DATABASES AND ALGORITHMS FOR PATHWAY BIOINFORMATICS 
Peter D. Karp  
z A family of hundreds of Pathway/Genome Databases (PGDBs) now exists for 
organisms with sequenced genomes 
z The BioCyc PGDB collection developed by SRI contains PGDBs for more than 500 
organisms 
z the Pathway Tools software, which contains a large suite of algorithms for 
manipulating biological networks and genome data.  
z Pathway Tools includes inference modules for inferring the metabolic pathways of an 
organism, and for predicting which genes fill missing reactions in the predicted 
pathways 
z extensive visualization tools for individual metabolic pathways, for complete metabolic 
networks, and for complete regulatory networks.  
z These visualization tools can also be used for analysis of omics datasets.  
z Pathway Tools also contains algorithms for systems biology analyses of metabolic 
networks, including detection of dead-end metabolites and reachability analysis 
 
Poster session 
RECURSIVE BAYESIAN NETS FOR PREDICTION, EXPLANATION AND CONTROL 
IN CANCER SCIENCE - A Position Paper 
Lorenzo Casini, Phyllis McKay Illari, Federica Russo and Jon Williamson 
z Recursive Bayesian Net (RBN) formalism was originally developed for modelling 
 表 Y04 
9
四、建議 
I had discussions with the following speakers during the ICB 2010 conference. 
z K. Hamacher, Bioinformatics & Theoretical Biology Group, Technische Universit¨at 
Darmstadt, Germany. hamacher@bio.tu-darmstadt.de 
z Phyllis McKay Illari, Philosophy, University of Kent, Canterbury, U.K. 
p.mckay@kent.ac.uk, 
z Erola Pairo, Institut de Bioenginyeria de Catalunya, Baldiri i Reixac 13, 08028, 
Barcelona, Spain. Departament d’electronica, Universitat de Barcelona, Mart´ı i 
Franqu`es 1, 08028, Barcelona, Spain. epeiro@ibec.pcb.ub.es, erola.pairo@gmail.com
z Pedro Ribeiro, CRACS & INESC-Porto LA, Faculdade de Ciˆencias, Universidade do 
Porto Rua do Campo Alegre 1021, 4169-007 Porto, Portugal. pribeiro@dcc.fc.up.pt  
 
In summary, I had several nice discussions with some of the speakers in the 
conference.  The level and quality of the talks are in general good.  
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
資料名稱:  
(1) CD for ICB 2010 
(2) BIOSTEC Final Program and Book of Abstracts. 
 
六、其他 
    無 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳家
樂 計畫編號：98-2221-E-468-013- 
計畫名稱：利用生物資訊方法預測癌症相關之 microRNA 並建立生物實驗平台 
量化 
成果項目 
實際
已達
成數
（被
接受
或已
發
表） 
預期
總達
成數
(含
實際
已達
成
數)
本
計
畫
實
際
貢
獻
百
分
比 
單
位 
備註（質化說明：如數個計畫共同成果、成果列為該期刊
之封面故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /
技術報告 0 0 
10
0%  
研討會論
文 3 3 
10
0% 
篇 
1.江文欽，＇利用蛋白質交互作用探討癌症相關蛋白之交互作用研
究＇，第十八屆細胞及分子生物新知研討會。墾丁，2010/1/20~22
2.王傑瑋，＇題目:探討由選擇性剪接造成蛋白質域的變化與肝癌
之關係＇ ，第十八屆細胞及分子生物新知研討會。墾丁，
2010/1/20~22 
3. 薛一勤，＇辨識人類、黑猩猩、老鼠及大鼠的 MicroRNA 核心
啟動子＇，ITIA 2010 資訊技術與產業應用研討會。北台灣科學技
術學院資訊管理系，2010/6/4 
論文
著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件
數 0 0 
10
0%  專利 已獲得件
數 0 0 
10
0% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  技術
移轉 權利金 0 0 100% 
千
元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研
究員 0 0 
10
0%  
國
內 
參與
計畫
人力 
（本
國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人
次 
 
其他成
果 
(無法以
量 化 表
達 之 成
果 如 辦
理 學 術
活動、獲
得 獎
項、重要
國 際 合
作、研究
成 果 國
際 影 響
力 及 其
他 協 助
產 業 技
術 發 展
之 具 體
效 益 事
項等，請
以 文 字
敘 述 填
列。) 
本計畫共發表三篇論文，其中兩篇為 SCI 論文，另一篇為具有審查機制之國外期刊。 
參予本計畫之學生共五位，均在國內外之研討會發表論文。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與
量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或
工具 0 
 
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 
計畫成果推廣之參
與（閱聽）人數 0 
 
