1 
 
中文摘要 
 在本計畫中我們基於波恩近似法推導出角度多工全像儲存中的一般化噪訊比方程式。
在九十度架構下，我們評估了傳統的最小角度容忍度下的噪訊比，並發現不同的全像在不
同的像素位置都會有不同的訊噪比，且僅在全像中心以及多工角度中心有著最佳的噪訊比。
我們提出了另外一套演算法以找出一組(非單一個)多工角度。這組多工角度可以對全像的任
意位置進行最佳化。因此，這個技術在某些非對稱式的全像系統中將有著比傳統方式更佳
的多工效率與訊噪比。另一方面，我們也探討在穿透式架構下傳統最小角度容忍度下的噪
訊比。我們發現在較小角度的多工區域會有極大的噪訊比。這也意味著只有一半的儲存容
量可以被正常使用。因此在穿透架構下我們需要有別的方法去找出更適當的多工角度。最
後，由於液晶空間光調制器是全像多工儲存中的重要元件，因此在本計畫中我們也針對液
晶空間光調制器的振幅調制特性進行探討。我們提出了一個簡易的方式去量測並找出任意
液晶空間光調制器的調制參數，並以實驗驗證之。 
 
關鍵詞：全像儲存，波恩近似，訊噪比，液晶空間光調製器 
 
Abstract 
In the project we studied the diffraction properties of a holographic multiplexing system. Our 
theoretical model is based on Born approximation, and we derived a generalized formula of 
noise-signal-ratio (NSR) for an angular multiplexing system. We studied the NSR for 90-degree 
multiplexing scheme and for transmission multiplexing scheme. In the former case, we proposed 
a new method to optimize the angular separation for any location of the data page. In the latter 
case, we found that the typical optimized angular separation will result in very high NSR in the 
small angle region. Thus the typical transmission scheme is not an efficiency method for 
multiplexing. Finally, we studied the amplitude modulation of a liquid-crystal spatial light 
modulator (LC-SLM). We proposed a new and easy method to measure the optical properties so 
that a good linear amplitude modulation can be realized in LC-SLM.  
 
Keywords: Holographic Multiplexing; Born Approximation; signal-to-noise ratio; liquid-crystal 
spatial light modulator 
 
 
3 
 
(e) The focal lengths of all the lenses in the model are the same. Since this assumption cannot 
help to simplify the calculation, we do not involve this assumption in our deviation. 
 
Figure 1 is the scheme of a angular multiplexing holographic storage system. The input 
pattern m 0 0f (x ,y ) displayed in a spatial light modulator (SLM) at the object plane is optically 
Fourier transformed to the holographic medium. The object light is recorded via the interference 
with the reference light, which is a plane wave with variable incident angle. The reference plane 
wave is produced from the Fourier transform of an ideal point source located at the reference 
plane. Thus the orientation of the reference light can be controlled by shifting the point source. 
This process can be done by a precise motorized stage, or alternatively done by another SLM. In 
the reading/retrieving process, a specific reference light in association with the hologram to be 
retrieved is used, and the retrieved object light is optically Fourier transformed again. Finally, a 
CCD is used to read/capture the retrieved image at the output plane. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Schematic of an angle-multiplexing holographic data storage system. L’s: lens; 
0 0(x ,y ) is the coordinate of the object plane, 2 2(x ,y ) is the coordinate of the output plane, 
and i i(x ,y )  is the coordinate of the plane of the reference light point. 
 
We assume that 2M+1 holograms, which are labeled as m = -M, -M+1,…,0,…M-1, M, are 
recorded inside the holographic medium. The reference light point associated with the m-th 
hologram is a point source located at (0, ym). If we use the i-th reference light point as the reading 
light, at the output plane the generalized diffracted light amplitude i 2 2g (x ,y ) can be expressed as 
 
( )
M
1 1 1 1
i 2 2 m 2 mix 2 miy
m=-M 2 2
2 mix 2 miy 2 2
miz mix miy
2
f λf f λfg (x ,y )= f x ΔK , y ΔK t
f 2π f 2π
x ΔK +y ΔKt λsinc ΔK + + ΔK +ΔK ,
2π f 4π
⎛ ⎞− − − − ×⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤⎪ ⎪× ⎨ ⎬⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭
∑
 (1) 
where f’s denotes the focal length (see Fig.1), t denotes the thickness of the holographic 
medium, λ denotes the wavelength, and 
5 
 
along 2y 0=  and along i 0= . The NSR becomes larger at the location of larger 2y and i. If 
m i≠  and 2y 0≠ , the sinc function in Eq. (4) will deviate from zero and arrives its maximum 
when both 2y  and i are near the maximum. This is because the reference point location is only 
optimized for 2y 0= , which results in a non-uniform NSR distribution. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Relative noise-to-signal ratio as a function of the location of the output plane 
2 2y / f  and the location of the reading light point. The locations of the reference light 
points are calculated according to the typical solution Eq. (5). 
 
To let the NSR distribution be more uniform, we rewrite the part of sinc function of Eq. (4) again: 
 m i 2 m i m i2
r 2 r
y y y (y +y )(y y )t tsinc .
λ f λ f 2f
⎧ ⎫− −−⎨ ⎬⎩ ⎭
 (6) 
We noticed that under the consideration of Eq. (5), the first term of Eq. (6) is an integer while the 
second term is proportional to both 2y  and iy ym + . Thus if we let the separation between 
adjacent reference points is a little larger than that described by Eq. (5), the NSR along 2y 0=  
and along i 0=  will increase, but the NSR in the region of larger 2y  and i will decrease 
because the first term and the second term of Eq. (6) can cancel each other. We think this method 
can more or less let the distribution of NSR more uniform. Figure 3 shows the complete field of 
NSR distribution ( i 1000 ~ 1000= − ) in different separations of reference light points. From Fig. 
3(a) to Fig. 3(c), we find that NSR increases as the separation is far from rnλf / t . However, the 
distribution becomes more uniform in spite of the boundary drop. This effect is interesting and 
may be useful in some applications, in which uniformity is more important than low NSR.  
 It is also believed that the crosstalk noise can be reduced if we double the angular separation 
of adjacent reference lights. That is using n = 2 instead of n =1 in Eq. (5). However, Fig. 3(d) 
indicates that the NSR property is virtually unchanged compared with Fig. 2 (Note: Fig. 2 shows 
the right half region of Fig. 3). Since only half of the original capacity is used, doubling the 
angular separation of adjacent reference lights is useless throughout. 
 
7 
 
 
2 2
2 r 2 r 2 r
m-1 m
2 2 2
f f f f 2λf fy y
y y y t
⎛ ⎞= ± − +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
 for m 0≤  (12) 
Therefore from m 0= , we can sequentially find the location of each reference light point using 
Eqs. (11) and (12). Note that the minus sign of Eqs. (12) and (13) should be chosen if 2y 0> . If
2y 0< , the plus sign should be chosen. To verify Eqs. (11) and (12), we also calculated the NSR 
optimized for 2 2y 0.1f= − . The result is shown in Fig. 4. The NSR along 2 2y 0.1f= −  is exactly 
zero, as what we wish. Nevertheless, the noise lever gradually increases from 2 2y 0.1f= −  to
2 2y 0.1f= . 
 In conclusion, in this section our main findings are (1) In the angular multiplexing using 
equal separation, rλf / t  is one and the only one solution to minimize the crosstalk noise level. 
The separation of r2λf / t  or higher will not give any help to reduce the noise and will reduce 
the capacity. This result has never been proposed before. (2) We can let the NSR distribution 
more uniform by let the separation a little bit larger than rλf / t . (3) We proposed a method to 
optimize the multiplexing to any 2y  value, which may be useful for applications whose 
geometries are not symmetry. 
 
 
Fig. 4 Relative noise-to-signal ratio as a function of the location of the output plane 
2 2y / f  and the location of the reading light point. The locations of the reference light 
points are calculated according to Eqs.(11) and (12). 
 
4. NSR analysis of transmission-type geometry 
In this section we will use Eq.(3) to analyze the NSR of transmission-type geometry, i.e.θ 90< D . 
Now we need use Eq. (3) instead Eq. (5) to calculate system NSR. Similar to the 90-degree case, 
the angular separation can be determined as 
 rm
λfy n
t sinθ
= ⋅ ⋅ . (13) 
  Assume that 2M+1 holograms, which are labeled as m = -M, -M+1,…,0,…M-1, M, are stored 
inside the holographic medium. The reference light point associated with the m-th hologram is a 
point source located at (0, ym). Setting that θ 30= D , n=1 and M=1000, the NSR distribution is 
calculated and shown in Fig. 5. In the region of plus m, the maximum NSR is about 0.1, which is 
not good but acceptable. However, in the region of minus m there are locations in which the NSR 
is larger than 100. The error in the high NSR locations may be from that the actual angle is 
9 
 
 The setup to measure the operation parameters are shown schematically in Fig. 6. A 
diode-pumped solid state (DPSS) laser operating in 532 nm is used as the light source. The laser 
beam was spatially filtered, collimated, and then illuminated to the SLM. The SLM is made by 
Holoeye (type: LC-2002), and its panel dimension is 800x600 pixels with pixel pitch 32 μm. 
The pattern to be displayed can be inputted via a standard D-sub cable. Thus the voltage on the 
SLM can be modified by sending images with 8-bit encoding gray level (level 0~255) from a 
computer. A photo-detector with an iris behind the SLM is set to measure the transmitted light 
power. To accomplish AM, a polarizer as well as an analyzer was set. The angles of the 
transmission axis of polarizer, polyemids direction of SLM, transmission axis of analyzer are 
respectively 49.64°, 49.64°, and 139.159° related to y-axis as shown in Fig. 6. In this operation 
condition, the transmitted light from the LC panel will pass the analyzer on zero applied voltage, 
and be completely blocked by the analyzer on a maximum applied voltage. Thus a best system 
contrast can be achieved.  
 
 
Fig. 6 Schematic of experimental setup. HWP: Half Wave Plate; SPF: Spatial Filter; L: 
Lens; P: Polarizer; A: Analyzer; I: Iris; PD: Photodetector.  
 
 The setup values of the SLM LC-2002 can be controlled via a RS232 cable by software. In 
the software, the setup values for brightness and for contrast are both from 0 to 255 with integral 
interval. For convenience, the setup value for brightness is denoted as “Cb” henceforth, and the 
setup value for contrast is denoted as “Cc” henceforth. It is postulated that Cb is to control the 
bias voltage on the SLM. The larger the value of Cb, the less the bias voltage because the SLM is 
operated in normally white mode (i.e. the light will not be blocked by the analyzer when no 
voltage is applied). On the other hand, Cc is to control the voltage difference (VD) of adjacent 
encoding gray levels.  
 To see the transmission response of the SLM in AM mode, the relationship between 
encoding gray level and transmittance (T) in various Cc values were measured, and plotted in Fig. 
7. It is observed that larger Cc values result in steeper slop of transmittance curves, which agrees 
with our postulation for setup of Cc. Note that although the transmittance curve varies in different 
setups, the same value of transmittance in different curves will always related to the same 
operation voltage except for the upper and lower limit regions. Based on this concept, we can 
measure the ratio of VD on different Cc values. First, we chose a transmittance range, 
T=0.016~0.033, and then find corresponding range of gray level in different Cc values. Take 
Cc=255 for example, the encoding gray levels 135 and 154 are respectively corresponding to 
T=0.016 and T=0.033. Therefore, the range of gray level in Cc=255 is 19. By the same way, we 
also measured the ranges of gray level in other Cc values. We can then calculate a relative VD 
between various Cc values since these ranges of gray level are corresponding to the same voltage 
range as well as the same transmittance range. For example, we find that the range of gray level 
11 
 
setup value of Cb is 100, then the transmittance on the intersection point will fit the target 
transmittance. Since the total range has been correct by setting Cc value, and the transmittance 
value on a single gray level is correct, we can ensure that the whole transmittance curve locates in 
where we expect to be. By this way, the resultant transmittance curve for optimized amplitude 
modulation in λ=532 nm is obtained as shown in Fig. 9.   
Fig. 8 Relationship between encoding gray level and transmittance. (Cb=110,Cc=255) 
The points A and B denote gray level 45 and 215, respectively. 
 
Fig. 9 Relationship between encoding gray level and transmittance for optimized 
amplitude modulation in λ=532 nm . (Cb=101, Cc=166) 
 
 In conclusion, in this section we proposed a methodology for finding the operation 
parameters (the setup values for brightness and contrast) to modulate a liquid-crystal spatial light 
modulator in amplitude modulation mode. We first measured the relative voltage difference on 
different setup values of brightness. Then we can enlarge or shorten the range of modulation of 
transmittance as will. The transmittance curve can also be shifted any target location by 
determining the intersection point. As a result, the operation parameters for any specific 
modulation state can be determined precisely. This work is very important for our experimental 
demonstration for holographic multiplexing because SLM is the key component in a holographic 
storage system. In the future, we will extend the proposed methodology for finding the operation 
parameters of a LC SLM for phase modulation.   
 
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
報告人姓名  
    劉 榮 平 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
逢甲大學光電學系 
助理教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009 年四月二十六日至四月三
十日 
 
本會核定
補助文號
 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 數位全像與三維顯像 
 (英文) Digital Holography and Three-Dimensional Imaging 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)九十度相位差移相全像術之研究 
 (英文) Advances in Quadrature-Phase Shifting Digital Holography 
一、前言  
Digital Holography and Three-Dimensional Imaging (DH)是由美國光學學會 (Optical 
Society of America; OSA)所舉辦的國際研討會，其議題包括了數位全像理論與系統、繞射與
全像光學元件、光學儲存、電腦產生全像(CGH)、影像識別、三維影像顯影，處理與顯示、
物貌量測、全像顯影與顯微、全像微製成技術。在 2007 年時第一屆 DH 研討會即在溫哥華
舉行。今年除了回到溫哥華舉行外，亦和另外四個子會議（傅氏轉換光譜、複合光譜顯影與
感測、新穎顯微技術，與光鑷夾技術）合成單一的大型先進顯影關連研討會(joint conference)。
雖然有部分論文是和其他子會議共同發表的，但今年的 DH 文章篇數已經是兩年前第一屆
DH 會議的兩倍。這似乎也反映了數位全像與三維顯影相關技術與研究的熱度在這兩年當中
已增加了不少。 
 
二、會議過程  
由於筆者的主要研究興趣在於數位全像技術，因此雖然有五個子會議，但筆者主要參
與、聆聽的會議仍然是 DH。在今年發表的論文中，有許多論文都十分的精彩，以下將就這
些論文做一簡短之介紹與說明。 
第一天（4/27）的會議中，一開始就安排了日本 Ichirou Yamaguchi博士的大會演講(Plenary 
talk)。Yamaguchi博士是以 CCD拍攝移相全像技術的先驅，因此他的講題即為『移相式全像
的原理與應用』。Yamaguchi博士在演說中除了說明了移相式全像的原理以及優點（可以在在
軸全像的架構下消除雙像雜訊與零階光）外，亦介紹了他們利用移相式全像所做的應用，包
括了物體形貌的量測與重建、細胞的相位凸顯顯影、影像壓縮以及震動物體的全像拍攝技術。
加拿大 溫哥華  
NSC 97-2221-E-035–015 
 3
數位全像重建影像的解析度。該研究團隊已成功的完成了影像經過三層相位片後以此演算法
修正。然而其中有數個參數需以嘗試錯誤的方式找出，且是否能擴展至連續分佈的混濁介質
(turbid medium)取像仍為未知。即使如此，本技術仍然十分具有持續發展的潛力。除了上述
兩篇邀請演講外，日本 Hyogo大學的 Osamu Murata教授發表了利用轉動反射鏡改變照射物
體光束之角度以提升單一 CCD 所擷取的物光空間頻率，進而提升重建影像之解析度；MIT
的 Barbastathis 教授與其研究團隊提出在 PQ-PMMA 體積全像材料中摻雜奈米二氧化矽以提
升體積全像繞射效率的文章，都是方法不難，但可以有效提升系統/材料特性的技術，頗為
實用。筆者的論文『九十度相位差移相全像術之研究』亦是在今日下午的壁報論文時間發表。
本研究之重點是拍攝兩張九十度相位差的全像片，並利用一演算法計算出複數全像來。此技
術較傳統移相技術可減少兩次的拍攝，乃一大突破。對本論文有十餘人向筆者提出問題或提
供建議。他們大都肯定我們研究的價值，並認為進一步的實驗驗證是有必要的，這也是我們
後續將繼續努力的目標。 
    在第三天（4/29）的會議中，主要的論文議題為電腦產生全像片(CGH)。空間光調製器
（SLM）常被用來顯示電腦產生全像。然而 SLM在切換不同 CGH時，常會有光強的不穩定。
瑞典的 Gothenburg 大學發表了一篇文章以解決這個問題。他們的方法為利用一特殊的演算
法（Gerchberg-Saxton algorithm）計算出數張『中間態』的 CGH，而切換 SLM 狀態時並非
直接從起始態 CGH直接切換到末狀態 CGH，而是依序切換到數張『中間態』的 CGH後，
才顯示末狀態的 CGH。利用這個技術，當以 SLM 顯示 CGH 以進行動態的多粒子捕獲
(trapping)時，他們可以穩定的單獨控制被捕獲的多個微小粒子中的一個，而不會影響到其他
粒子，因此在生醫光鉗技術方面有非常重要的應用價值。另外，日本大學的 Niroshi Yoshikawa
教授和其團隊也展示了利用預先計算參考光函數並以查表的方式(look-up table)快速計算電
腦產生全像的技術。目前他們已經可以在投影機上即時顯示彩色的動態影像全像(image 
hologram)！除了查表法，當天還有幾篇討論以 GPU（繪圖處理單元）或 FPGA（元件可編程
邏輯門陣列）加速 CGH運算的技術。筆者與香港城市大學在今天也有發表一篇以 FPGA加
速電腦產生全像計算的文章。利用 FPGA，我們可以每秒計算上百萬的全像點，這比目前其
他團隊所發表的 CGH運算速度都要快非常多。 
    最後，除了大會演講，邀請演講與一般論文發表外，本次大會還安排了三場的講習
(tutorial)。這三場分別為德國 Stuttgart 大學的 Osten 教授介紹以數位全像進行光學量測的各
種技術與應用；維吉尼亞理工的潘定中教授介紹光學掃瞄全像術之基本原理與應用；以及日
本 Utsunomiya大學的 Yatagai教授介紹電腦產生全像術的原理，發展與應用。這三場講習十
分適合不熟悉該領域的聽眾，因為可以從最基礎的概念到最新的應用一口氣聽完。類似的安
