行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告
水下網路之合作式繞徑與行動繞徑協定研究
計劃編號：NSC－98－2221－E－305－003
執行期限：98年8月1日至99年7月31日
主持人： 莊東穎 教授 共同主持人：陳裕賢 教授
執行單位：國立台北大學資訊工程系
計畫參與人員：林勻蔚、魏兆言
Abstract—In this paper, we investigate a mobicast, or called
as mobile geocast, problem in 3-dimensional underwater
sensor networks (USNs). In this work, all underwater
sensor nodes are randomly distributed in a 3-dimensional
underwater environment in the sea to form a 3-dimensional
underwater sensor network. Considered a mobile sink or an
AUV (autonomous underwater vehicle) of an AUV navigation
system, all possible sensor nodes near to the AUV at time t
form a 3-dimensional geographic zone (called as 3-D zone of
reference or 3-D ZOR). To save power, only sensor nodes in a
3-D ZOR are notified to enter the active mode (i.e., to wake
up) before time t in order to collect all sensed results from all
sensor nodes of the 3-D ZOR and report to the AUV at time
t. In addition, when AUV moves to new location at time t+1,
all sensor nodes in 3-D ZOR at time t enter to power-saving
mode. The specific characteristics of USNs, such as low
communication bandwidth, large propagation delay, and
ocean current are significantly different from wireless sensor
networks (WSNs). To consider the characteristics of USNs, a
new mobicast routing protocol is developed in 3-dimensional
underwater sensor network (USNs). This is the first result
to develop a mobile geocast rotuing protocol in USNs. The
key design challenge is to develop a power-saving mobicast
protocol in 3-dimensional USNs to overcome the unpredictable
3-dimensional hole problem. A leaf shape-based scheme of
the mobicast protocol is proposed to solve the unpredictable
3-dimensional hole problem. Finally, performance analysis
is derived and simulation results illustrate the performance
improvement in successful delivery rate, power consumption,
and message overhead.
Keywords: underwater sensor network, mobicast, geocast,
multicast, routing.
I. INTRODUCTION
Underwater sensor networks (USNs) consist of number
of underwater sensor or just called sensor nodes which
are equipped with acoustic transceivers that enable them
to communicate with each other to perform collaborative
sensing tasks over a given area [1] from shallow water
and seabed. Underwater sensor networks (USNs) have many
potential applications in ocean moinitoring, such as current
flow, oil pollution, seismic and tsunamis monitoring, to
supply high spatio-temporal resolution capability. Sensor
nodes report the sensed data to a control station on the ocean
surface for investigation.
The power consumption issue of USNs are mainly focused
[2], because that the battery power of a sensor node is a
valuable resource and it is very difficult to recharge in the
sea. Acoustic communications in the ocean is feasible for
the data transmission; unfortunately, the propagation delay
is comparatively large, compared to the low propagation
delay of radio wave used in the air. An ocean current is
a continuous, directed movement of ocean water generated
by the forces acting upon the mean flow. Underwater sensor
nodes always be drifted caused by the ocean current, the
location of sensor nodes in the ocean is usually changed
caused by the ocean current. The USN is thus with the
changeable topology over time. In addition, the network
fragmentation or hole problem is occurred becuase that there
is no uniform distriubtion of underwater sensor nodes and
the ocean current.
In USNs, one way to collect the sensed data from all
underwater sensor nodes is directly transmitted the sensed
data to the control station on the ocean surface. It takes
a long route path [3][4] between sensor nodes with the
control station on the ocean surface. It is observed that the
control station always collects the inaccurate sensed data
since the the long route path has the higher probability of
encountering the hole problem. One easy way to reduce the
probability of encountering the hole problem and improve
the accurate sensed data is to use the AUV (autonomous
underwater vehicle) [5]. The AUV is a mobile sink and
is designed to nearly collect the sensed data from sensor
nodes and indirectly report to the control station with the
short route path. The AUV usually travels a circle path
around a given observed area. The AUV collects the sensed
To achieve the purpose of the reliable data collection, an
AUV is usually used to effectively collect the sensed data
from sensor nodes [15][16][17]. Walker [15] proposed an ex-
ploring solution in the underwater environment. A traveling
AUV roams around in a USN and collects sensed data from
those sensor nodes, and then the AUV uploads collected
data to a base station. Walker shows the AUV is feasible
and useful to distributed collect data in the underwater
environment. Wang et al. [16] proposed a solution to collect
data with multiple AUVs. Wang et al. well divide a large
USN into several sub-regions and assign an AUV in each
sub-region to collect data. Multiple AUVs simultaneously
collect data in different sub-regions and upload collected
data to a base station. The end-to-end delay and energy
cost can be reduced because the data is parallel collecting
and the routing path in each sub-region is short. Seah et al.
[17] proposed a multiple AUVs approach to overcome the
network fragmentation problem for improving the network
connectivity. The network fragmentation could be happened
since sensor nodes are non-uniform distribution and can be
drifted away by ocean currents. Multiple AUVs search for
and identify critical communication gaps between network
fragmentations among a USN, and if a AUV finds a critical
communication gap, the AUV acts as a bridge between two
network fragmentations and enhances the connectivity of
the network. Therefore, AUVs can be useful and reliable
to collect sensed data from sensor nodes.
Three-dimensional unicast routing has discussed in
[18][19][20][21]. Flury et al. [18] proposed a randomized
3-D geographic routing protocol with the consideration of
hole problem in wireless ad hoc networks. Since Durocher
et al. [19] have proven that there is no deterministic local
routing algorithm for 3-D networks that guarantees the
delivery of messages, Flury et al. use a random walk scheme
to deliver a message to a destination node. The random
walk scheme let a message move around randomly in a
3-d network and capture the surface of holes to overcome
the hole problem if the message encounters holes. Pompili
et al. [20] proposed routing algorithms in 3-D underwater
sensor networks to allow each node to select its next hop
with the highest successful delivery rate under the minimum
energy consumption, while a packet train scheme is used to
deliver packets back-to-back without releasing the channel to
improve the channel utilization efficiency. Pompili et al. also
proposed a distributed algorithm to determine the optimal
packet size used in the packet train scheme to achieve
the maximum channel utilization efficiency in [21]. The
above-mentioned routing protocols in 3-D networks have
remarkable achievement, however, those protocols focus on
providing unicast routing in 3-D networks. The routing
requirement which considers the temporal and spatial issues
at the same time to provide spatiotemporal multicast routing
in 3-D networks still needs to be further investigated.
Existing protocols [15][16][17] focus on how to improve
AUVs’ data collection efficiency. However, those protocols
do not consider collect data from sensor nodes which may
stay at sleep mode. Sensor nodes usually stay at sleep mode
to save power. A sensor node cannot be immediately waked
up by a waking up message sent from an AUV when the
AUV is closing to the sensor node because the waking up
message should propagate with a long delay in the sea.
Besides, the waking up message may fail to deliver and does
not wake up sensor nodes because the link connectivity is
lost due to the hole problem and the ocean current effect.
The AUV fails to collect sensed data from a sensor node if
the sensor node stays at sleep mode. This is, to achieve a
successful data collection, an AUV should wake up sensor
nodes in advance to prepare for data transmission while an
AUV is approaching. In this paper, a 3-D prescribed region
which the AUV is going to collect data denotes as a 3-D
ZOR. To assist an AUV in successfully collecting sensed
data from sensor nodes, this paper proposes a distributed
mobicast routing protocol to deliver mobicast messages for
waking up all sensor nodes in a 3-D ZOR at time t. To
our knowledge, this work is the first study to develop the
mobicast routing protocol in USNs.
III. PRELIMINARIES
This section presents the system model and basic idea.
The contribution and the application examples are also
introduced.
A. System Model
In this work, sensor nodes are randomly deployed in
the ocean. Sensor nodes may be drifted by ocean currents.
We assume each sensor node can know its location by
range-based or range-free localization techniques [22]. Fig.
1 shows the architecture in this work. Users firstly design an
AUV’s route. The AUV travels along the route and collects
sensed data from sensor nodes in a 3-D ZOR. Afterward,
the AUV returns and reports the collected data to a control
station. Sensor nodes usually stay at sleep mode to save
power. If the AUV wants to successfully collect sensed data,
sensor nodes should stay at active mode . Hence, sensor
nodes should be waked up while the AUV is approaching.
This is, sensor nodes located at right ”place” and at right
”time” should be waked up to send sensed data. The right
”place” means the ZOR which the AUV arrives. The right
”time” means the time while the AUV is approaching.
This wake up procedure can be controlled by the mobicast
protocol.
A special case of a ”spatiotemporal multicast”, called a
”mobicast”, protocol is introduced for supporting applica-
tions which require spatiotemporal coordination in USNs.
The spatiotemporal character of a mobicast is to forward a
mobicast message to all sensor nodes that will be present
at time t in a ZOR, where both the location and shape
of the zone of reference are a function of time over some
Figure 3. The hole problem is occurred due to (a) nonuniform distribution
and (b) ocean current.
Figure 4. ZOF3
t+1
is oblate spheroidal region and covers ZOR3
t+1
.
at sleep mode to save power. To wake up sensor nodes in
ZORt+1 in advance, a ”hold and forward” zone is used.
The hold and forward zone is a overlap between ZORt and
ZORt+1 as shown in Fig. 1(a). Sensor nodes located in the
hold and forward zone should wake up all sensor nodes
in ZORt+1 by delivering the mobicast message. Then the
AUV can collect sensed data from sensor nodes in ZORt+1
at time t + 1 as shown in Fig. 1(b). However, a feasible
routing path may not exist to deliver the mobicast message
due to the ocean current movement. Sensor nodes may be
drifted away and that causes the hole problem. Some sensor
nodes can not be waked up to prepare for sending data. Fig.
1(b) shows a partial sensor nodes in ZORt+2 are failed to
wake up at time t+1 due to the hole problem. To overcome
the hole problem, a zone of forwarding ZOFt+1 is created
by the AUV at time t.
ZOFt+1 is a geographic zone created by the AUV at time
t to indicate which sensor node should deliver the mobicast
message for waking up sensor nodes located in ZORt+1. A
formal definition of ZOFt+1 is given.
Definition 3-D ZOFt+1 or ZOF3t+1 (3-dimensional zone
of forwarding): Given an AUV VA, 3-D ZOFt+1 is a 3-
D oblate spheroidal region determined by VA at time t,
(a) (b)
(c)
Figure 5. ZOF3
t+1 can expand to cover the hole.
such that each sensor node Ni in the 3-D ZOFt+1 has the
responsibility of forwarding the mobicast message to sensor
nodes located in 3-D ZORt+1.
Fig. 4 (a) shows an example of ZOFt+1. ZOFt+1 is always
larger than ZORt+1 and covers ZORt+1 as shown in Fig.
4 (b). Sensor nodes located in ZOFt+1 should deliver the
mobicast message to sensor nodes in ZORt+1. Although a
feasible routing path does not exist in ZORt+1 due to the
hole problem, an alternative routing path can be discovered
in ZOFt+1 to deliver the the mobicast message. The hole
problem is solved. However, since the power in USNs is a
valuable resource, it is not efficient to use all sensor nodes in
ZOFt+1 to deliver the mobicast message. Multiple routing
paths in ZOFt+1 can be discovered to deliver the mobicast
message to sensor nodes in ZORt+1. With the consideration
of the direction of current flow, some routing paths have
higher delivery rate. Only a few routing paths with higher
delivery rate are necessary to deliver the mobicast message.
That can achieve both power saving and high delivery rate.
We discuss how to select routing paths with high delivery
rate and save power as follows.
(a)
(b)
Figure 7. Messages delivery using (a) all leaves (b) only leaves L1, L2,
and L6.
to deliver the mobicast message for achieving both high
successful delivery rate and power saving. Therefore, sensor
nodes in a leaf with the highest priority will firstly start to
delivery the mobicast message. Then, when a sensor node
in the leaf Li receives the mobicast message sent from a
neighboring leaf, Li+1 or Li−1, the sensor node immediately
start to deliver the mobicast message if the required leaf
quantity is still not satisfied. Otherwise, the sensor node does
not deliver the mobicast message and switches to sleep mode
for power saving if the required leaf quantity is satisfied.
Lemma 2: Given an oblate spheroidal ZOFt+1 and a
vector of current flow
−→
C ; then we know the optimum leaf
quantity m =
⌈
2pia−→
soi ·
−→
C
⌉
, where −→soi is an orthogonal vector of
−→si .
Proof: A leaf with a suitable size can achieve both high
delivery rate and power saving. A leaf with a larger size can
tolerate a stronger current flow. This is because sensor nodes
may not easily drift out of a large leaf. A routing path could
be easier to establish; therefore, the delivery rate is usually
high in a leaf with a large size. On the other hand, a leaf
with a large size involves more nodes to deliver messages
and consumes much power. Hence, to find a suitable size of
a leaf is an important issue. A leaf can tolerate a stronger
current flow means that a sensor node does not drift out of
the leaf during the time interval (t, t+1). Since the delivery
direction is −→si , −→soi is the direction which a node drifts out of
Figure 8. The error rate vs. the quantity of sensor nodes.
the leaf. The distance which a node drifts during the time (t,
t+1) is −→soi ·
−→
C ×(t− t+1). −→soi ·
−→
C is the maximum velocity
which a node drifts out of the leaf. This is, if the width of a
leaf larger than −→soi ·
−→
C ×(t−t+1), then this leaf can tolerate
the current flow. Fig. 12 shows that a leaf Li has a arc length
with −→soi ·
−→
C × (t− t+ 1), and the total the arc length of a
ZOFt+1 is 2pia. This is, the surface of ZOFt+1 is divided
into m =
⌈
2pia−→
soi ·
−→
C
⌉
identical leaves; hence,the optimum leaf
quantity m is
⌈
2pia−→
soi ·
−→
C
⌉
.
Lemma 3: Assume that the successful communication
rate of each sensor node is p. Given a successful predic-
tion probability (1 − α); then the minimum node quan-
tity for getting the largest node efficiency is nm =
(50Zα
2
√
p(1− p)) 23 .
Proof: To find the minimum node quantity for getting
the largest node efficiency, we should firstly find the node
efficiency with different node quantity. From the observation
of error rate function E(n) as shown in Fig. 8, we can know
that the higher node quantity is, the lower error rate will be.
Since the error rate drops as the node quantity increases,
we can use the slope to describe the node efficiency ne.
The slope means how much error rate can be reduced when
one node is added. Hence, the node efficiency ne is high
when the slope is large. The first order differential of E(n),
E′(n), describes the slope with different node quantity,
where E′(n) = −Zα2
√
p(1−p)
2 n
− 32
. Therefore, E′(n) can
describe the node efficiency ne. The largest node efficiency
with the minimum node quantity appears as n = nm when
the slope is -0.01. That means each node can reduce 1%
error rate when the node quantity is nm. If we increase
the node quantity over nm, each node can only reduce the
error rate lower than 1%. That means the node efficiency
ne < 1. To find nm, we let E′(n) = −0.01. Then we
know nm = (50Zα
2
√
p(1− p)) 23 which is the minimum
node quantity for getting the largest node efficiency.
Figure 10. Thre creation function of 3-D ZORt and 3-D ZOFt+1.
S2. To collect sensed data from sensor node, AUV VA
creates the ZORt by the equation Zt(Ni) = (xi −
xA)
2+(yi−yA)2+(zi−zA)2−R2 = 0, where R is the
radius of ZORt, (xi, yi, zi) is the location of a sensor
node Ni and (xA, yA, zA) is the center of ZORt. R is
defined by a user to indicate a expected range for data
collection.
S3. AUV VA broadcasts the mobicast control packet
Pm(Ni, Zt(Ni), m, r,
−→vA), where Pm is the control
packet to control the delivery of mobicast message, Ni
is the ID of current sensor node, Zt(Ni) describes the
region of ZORt, m is the mobicast message, r is the
radius of hold and forward zone, and −→vA is velocity
vector of VA. After VA broadcasting the Pm, ZOFt+1
creation phase is executed.
S4. A sensor node Ni should send the sensed data to the
AUV if Zt(Ni) ≤ 0 when a sensor Ni receives a Pm.
Zt(Ni) ≤ 0 implies sensor node Ni is located within
ZORt.
Fig. 10 (a) shows that a ZORt with a R radius is created
by Zt(Ni). Sensor nodes located within ZORt should send
sensed data to AUV VA at time t.
B. 3-D ZOFt+1 creation phase
To wake up sensor nodes located in the 3-D ZORt+1,
ZOFt+1 is necessary to create at time t. Sensor nodes located
within 3-D ZOFt+1 should deliver the mobicast message to
wake up sensor nodes in ZORt+1. In this phase, 3-D ZOFt+1
is divided into m identical leaves; then part of the leaves
are chosen to deliver the mobicast message. Two algorithms
are proposed to deliver the mobicast message. Algorithm
A uses all leaves to deliver and algorithm B uses the only
leaves with higher successful delivery rate to deliver. We
first present algorithm A as follows.
S1. To deliver the mobicast message for waking up sen-
sor nodes in ZORt+1, 3-D ZOFt+1 is created by
Figure 11. Various size of 3-D ZOFt+1 based on diffetent network density
and current flows: (a) the high density and the slow current (b) the high
density and the fast current (c) the low density and the slow current (d) the
high density and the fast current.
Ft+1(Ni) =
(xi−xF )2+(yi−yF )2
a2
+ (zi−zF )
c2
− 1 = 0,
where (xF , yF , zF ) is the center of ZOFt+1, a is the
equatorial radius of ZOFt+1, and c is the polar radius
of ZOFt+1. We predict the size of 3-D ZOFt+1 based
on the network density and current flows in 3-D ZORt.
3-D ZOFt+1 should be able to tolerate the current flow
and cover the hole; therefore, the size of 3-D ZOFt+1
should be expanded with the speed of the current flow.
Let ndt denote as the network density of 3-D ZORt,
ndavg denote as the average network density, and
−→
C
denote as the speed of current flow. The value of
a = 1×R× (1+ −→a ·
−→
C
|−→C | ) and c = 1×R× (1+
−→c ·−→C
|−→C | ) if
ndt ≥ ndavg . Otherwise, a = ndavgndt ×R× (1 +
−→a ·−→C
|−→C | )
and c = ndavg
ndt
× R × (1 + −→c ·
−→
C
|−→C | ) if ndt < ndavg .
Observed that the network density ndt+1 and the speed
of current flows
−→
C in 3-D ZOFt+1 may be not the same
as in 3-D ZORt, however, the network density and the
speed of current flows are regional property which is
not rapid changed. Althouth the prediction of the size
of 3-D ZOFt+1 may be incorrect at the boundary of
current flows, the prediction can be correct at time t+2.
S2. To wake up sensor nodes in ZORt+1, sensor nodes
located in a ”hold and forward zone” should deliver
the mobicast message through sensor nodes in ZOFt+1.
The hold and forward zone is a overlap between ZORt
and ZORt+1. The radius of the hold and forward zone
required leaf quantity which means a total of LR leaves
are required to deliver. The required leaf quantity LR
can be derived from the required node quantity. Let
n denote as node quantity which means there are n
sensor nodes to be involved to deliver messages. To
find the required node quantity n, an error rate function
E(n) =
Zα
2
√
p(1−p)
√
n
derived from Z-distribution [23]
can be used to predict the failed delivery rate when
there are n sensor nodes to be involved to deliver, where
p is the successful communication probability when a
node communicates with a neighboring node, Zα
2
is a
z-value, and α is a probability which we fail to predict
how many nodes are required. Zα
2
is a constant under
the parameter α, which can get from a Z-distribution
table. The error rate function E(n) can help us to find
the minimum required node quantity. Let nm denote
the minimum node quantity for getting the largest node
efficiency. Let ne denote as the node efficiency which
expresses how much error rate is reduced when one
node is added. The node efficiency ne = 1 implies each
node can reduce 1% error rate. To efficiently deliver
the mobicast message, the node efficiency ne should
be large than or equal to 1. To achieve node efficiency
ne ≥ 1, the minimum nm sensor nodes are required.
nm can be found according to Lemma 3. After we
found the minimum required node quantity nm, we can
know the the required leaf quantity LR according to
Lemma 4.
S5’. Sensor node Ni should assist in delivering the mobicast
message if Ft+1(Ni) ≤ 0. Ft+1(Ni) ≤ 0 implies Ni is
located within ZOFt+1. If sensor node Ni is located in
a leaf Li with the highest priority, Ni waits the shortest
defer time. Sensor node Ni firstly broadcast Pm when
the defer time is zero. Ni is located in a leaf Li if
the included angle is θi, where θi is the angle range
of leaf Li. Draw a vertical line from Ni to polar axis.
The vertical line is perpendicular to polar axis. θi is the
angle between the vertical line and horizontal lines.
S6’. When sensor node Ni in the leaf Li receives Pm sent
from a neighboring leaf, Li+1 or Li−1, the sensor node
immediately start to broadcast Pm if the required leaf
quantity LR is still not satisfied. Otherwise, sensor node
Ni does not broadcast and switches to sleep mode
for power saving if the required leaf quantity LR is
satisfied.
Fig. 10 (b) shows that a ZOFt+1 is created by Ft+1(Ni).
Therefore, the surface layer of ZOFt+1 is divided in a total
of m leaves, taking LR of them to deliver the mobicast
message. Observe that, step S4’ determines the required leaf
quantity LR based on network density. Fig. 15 shows that
the fewer leaves are required when the network density is
higher. Fig. 13 shows the delivery direction of leaf L2 is
the most similar to the direction of current flow; hence,
Figure 16. An example of mobicast protocol.
sensor nodes in leaf L2 have the highest priority to deliver
Pm. Compared to deliver messages with all sensor nodes in
ZOFt+1, our mobicast protocol can reduce about m−LRm %
power consumption. Fig. 16 shows that the mobicast mes-
sage is delivered to all sensor nodes in ZORt+1 through
sensor nodes in leaf L1, L2, and L3.
V. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
We provide theoretically proven bounds for the optimum
leaf quantity, the minimum node quantity, and the required
leaf quantity. The simulation results are then analyzed.
A. Performance Analysis
All sensor nodes are assumed in the analysis to be
randomly and uniformly deployed in the network. We have
the following results.
Theorem 5: Given the successful communication proba-
bility p; then we know the low bound of successful deliv-
ery rate for delivering with LR leaves and all leaves are
p
LL
r ×
−→
soi ·
−→
C
r
× LR and p
LL
r × 2pia
r
respectively, where LL
is the length of a leaf and LL =
c∫
−c
√
1 + (a−c)(a+c)z
2
c4
dz.
Proof: The mobicast message should deliver via sensor
nodes in 3-D ZOFt+1 when the delivery in 3-D ZORt+1
encounters a hole problem. We assume a worse case which
sensor nodes only exist on the surface of 3-D ZOFt+1.
Since the 3-D ZOFt+1 is split into m = 2pia−→
soi ·
−→
C
leaves, we
should compute the successful delivery rate in a leaf. A
leaf can exist
−→
soi ·
−→
C
r
routing paths to deliver the mobicast
message because the width of a leaf is −→soi ·
−→
C . Each routing
path has LL
r
hops to deliver since the length of a leaf
LL =
c∫
−c
√
1 + (a−c)(a+c)z
2
c4
dz. So we can use p
LL
r ×
−→
soi ·
−→
C
r
to describe the successful delivery rate in a leaf. Therefore,
the successful delivery rate is p
LL
r ×
−→
soi ·
−→
C
r
× LR when LR
leaves are used to deliver the mobicast message. When all
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
S
u
c
c
e
s
s
f
u
l
 
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
 
r
a
t
e
Network density 
(velocity of current flow=1 m/s)
 100% leaves
 L
R
 / m % leaves
 30% leaves
 100% leaves-A
 L
R
 / m % leaves-A
 30% leaves-A
 
 
(a)
0.00 0.25 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50 1.75 2.00 2.25
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
S
u
c
c
e
s
s
f
u
l
 
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
 
r
a
t
e
Velocity of current flow (m/s)
(network density=0.5)
 100% leaves
 L
R
 / m % leaves
 30% leaves
 
 
(b)
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
S
u
c
c
e
s
s
f
u
l
 
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
 
r
a
t
e
The percentage of utilized leaves (%)
(network density=0.5, total leaves=20)
 v = 0.1 m/s
 v = 1.25 m/s
 v = 2 m/s
 
 
(c)
2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
S
u
c
c
e
s
s
f
u
l
 
d
e
l
i
v
e
r
y
 
r
a
t
e
The total number of leaves
(network density=0.5, delivery with L
R
 leaves)
 v = 0.1 m/s
 v = 1.25  m/s
 v = 2  m/s
 
 
(d)
Figure 18. Performance of successful delivery rate vs. (a) network density
(b)current’s velocity (c) the percentage of utilized leaves (d) the total
number of leaves.
C. Successful delivery rate (SDR)
The simulation results of the SDR under various network
density (ND), velocity of current flow (v), the percentage of
utilized leaves, and the total number of leaves are shown in
Fig. 18. We observed that the SDR of 100% leaves, LR/m%
leaves leaves, and 30% leaves were high as the network
density was high, which were nearly equal to 100% leaves-
A, LR/m% leaves leaves, and 30% leaves-A respectively,
as illustrated in Fig. 18 (a). Fig. 18 (a) shows the observed
SDR under various NDs. A mobicast protocol with the high
successful delivery rate implies that the value of its SDR
was high. The higher the ND is, the higher the SDR will
be. It was observed that SDR was very low when ND< 0.2
because several sensor nodes were totally isolated under very
low density. The delivery using 100% leaves can achieve
maximum successful delivery rate. The SDR of LR/m%
leaves is closed to 100% leaves when ND> 0.6. This is
because the delivery using LR/m% leaves chooses those
leaves with high successful delivery rate. The SDR of 30%
leaves is lower because sensor nodes in 30% leaves are not
enough to deliver messages under the low network density.
Fig. 18 (b) shows the observed SDR under various v.
The higher the v is, the lower the SDR will be. This is
because sensor nodes are drifted by the current flow. Lots
of sensor nodes are drifted out of the 3-D ZOFt+1 when
the velocity of current flow is high; therefore, the mobicast
message is difficult to successfully deliver when the velocity
of current flow is high and then the SDR drops. The delivery
using 100% leaves can achieve maximum SDR since all
sensor nodes in 3-D ZOFt+1 are involved to deliver the
mobicast message. The SDR of LR/m% leaves is closed
to 100% leaves under various v because the delivery using
LR/m% leaves has considered the effect of current flow and
only leaves with high successful delivery rate are chosen to
deliver the mobicast message. The SDR of 30% leaves drops
quickly when the v is higher because only 30% leaves are
not sufficient to deliver the mobicast message under higher
v.
Fig. 18 (c) illustrates the SDR under various percentages
of utilized leaves. We observed the results under ND=0.5
with a total 20 leaves when the velocity of current flow
v is 0.1, 1.25, and 2 m/s. In general, the SDR increases as
the percentage of utilized leaves increase. It can be observed
that the curve of SDR with v=0.1 m/s and 1.25 m/s increases
slowly when the percentage of utilized leaves is large then
40% and 60%, respectively. This is because the largest node
efficiency is reached. The curve of SDR with v=2 m/s still
increases because the largest node efficiency is not reached
under high velocity of current flow.
Fig. 18 (d) illustrates the SDR under various total num-
bers of leaves. We observed the results under ND=0.5 and
delivery with LR leaves when the velocity of current flow
v is 0.1, 1.25, and 2 m/s. Each leaf has large size when
the total number of leaves is small. A leaf with larger size
can tolerate a current flow with higher velocity. However,
leaves with small size can easily to precisely assign the node
quantity to reach the largest node efficiency. The curve of
SDR with v=0.1 m/s does not drop until the total number
of leaves is 14. The curve of SDR with v=1.25 m/s dose
not drop until the total number of leaves is 8. The curve of
SDR with v=2 m/s dose not drop until the total number of
leaves is 2. The curve of SDR drops because the size of a
leaf cannot tolerate the current flow.
D. Power consumption (PC)
The simulation results of the PC under various network
density (ND), velocity of current flow (v), the percentage of
utilized leaves, and the total number of leaves are shown in
Fig. 19. We observed that the PC of 100% leaves, LR/m%
leaves, and 30% leaves were high as the network density was
high, which were nearly equal to 100% leaves-A, LR/m%
leaves-A, and 30% leaves-A respectively, as illustrated in
Fig. 19 (a). Fig. 19 (a) shows the observed PC under various
NDs. A mobicast protocol with the low power consumption
implies that the value of its PC was low. The higher the
ND is, the higher the PC will be. This is because more and
more nodes are involved to deliver messages. The delivery
using 100% leaves always consumes maximum power to
deliver messages. Compared to the delivery using 100%
leaves, the delivery using 30% leaves reduces about 70%
power consumption. Observe that, the PC of LR/m% leaves
under high density is lower than the PC of 30% leaves.
This is because the required leaf quantity LR is lower than
30% leaves when the ND is higher than 0.8. Therefore, the
leaf quantity LR can dynamically change to reduce message
overhead.
Fig. 20 (b) shows the observed MO under various v. The
higher the v is, the higher the MO will be. This is because
that the size of 3-D ZOFt+1 is larger when the velocity of
current flow v is higher. The MO of 100% leaves always
has the maximum message overhead because sensor nodes
in all leaves are involved to deliver messages. The MO of
30% leaves reduces about 70% message overhead because
sensor nodes in only 30% leaves are involved to deliver
messages. The curve of the MO of LR/m% leaves is lower
than that of 100% leaves under various velocity of current
flow v. The MO of LR/m% leaves increases quickly when
the velocity of current flow v is higher. This is because the
size of each leaf is large when v is high; therefore, more
sensor nodes are involved to deliver messages and produce
more messages.
Fig. 20 (c) illustrates the MO under various percentages
of utilized leaves. We observed the results under ND=0.5
with a total 20 leaves when the velocity of current flow v
is 0.1, 1.25, and 2 m/s. In general, the MO increases as the
percentage of utilized leaves increase. This is because more
and more sensor nodes are involved to deliver the mobicast
message. It is observed that the MO with v = 0.1 m/s < that
with v = 1.25 m/s < that with v = 2 m/s. This is because
that the size of 3-D ZOFt+1 is larger when the velocity of
current flow v is higher.
Fig. 20 (d) illustrates the MO under various total numbers
of leaves. We observed the results under ND=0.5 and the
message delivery using LR leaves when the velocity of
current flow v is 0.1, 1.25, and 2 m/s. Leaves with small
size can easier to precisely assign the node quantity to reach
the largest node efficiency. The curve of MO with v=0.1 m/s
is convergent when the total number of leaves is large than
2. The curve of MO with v=1.25 m/s is convergent when
the total number of leaves is large than 6. The curve of MO
with v=2 m/s is convergent when the total number of leaves
is large than 12. The curve of PC is convergent because the
size of each leaf is small enough to precisely assign the node
quantity to reach the largest node efficiency.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we present a mobicast routing protocol to
dynamically estimate the accurate 3-D ZOFt+1 to success-
fully deliver mobicast messages to wake up all sensor nodes
in 3-D ZORt+1 and overcome the hole problem and the
effect of ocean current by expanding the adaptive leaves.
Finally, the simulation results illustrated our performance
achievements in terms of successful delivery rate, power
consumption, and message overhead.
REFERENCES
[1] J. Heidemann, Y. Li, A. Syed, J. Wills, and W. Ye, “Under-
water sensor networkingGResearch Challenges and potential
Applications,” USC/ISI Tech. Rep., no. ISI-TR-2005-603,
2005.
[2] I. F. Akyildiz, D. Pompili, and T. Melodia, “The State of
Art in Protocol Research for Underwater Acoustic Sensor
Networks,” ACM International Workshop on Underwater Net-
works (WUWNet), vol. 11, pp. 11–22, 2006.
[3] N. C. Nicolaou, A. G. See, P. Xie, J. H. Cui, and D. Maggior-
ini, “Improving the Robustness of Location-Based Routing
for Underwater Sensor Networks,” IEEE Oceans07, pp. 1–6,
2007.
[4] P. Xie, J. H. Cui, and L. Lao, “VBF: Vector-Based Forward-
ing Protocol for Underwater Sensor Networks,” IEEE IFIP
Networking, vol. 4, pp. 228–235, May 2006.
[5] J. Wang, D. Li, M. Zhou, and D. Ghosal, “Data Collection
with Multiple Mobile Actors in Underwater Sensor Net-
works,” International Conference on Distributed Computing
Systems Workshops, pp. 216–221, June 2008.
[6] Y. S. Chen, Y.-W. Lin, Y. J. Liao, and G. M. Chiu, “HVE-
Mobicast: A Hierarchical-Variant-Egg-Based Mobicast Rout-
ing Protocol for Sensornets,” Telecommunication Systems,
vol. 41, no. 2, 2009.
[7] Y. S. Chen, S. Y. Ann, and Y. W. Lin, “VE-Mobicast: A
Variant-Egg-Based Mobicast Routing Protocol for Sensornet,”
ACM Wireless Networks, vol. 14, pp. 199–218, Apr. 2008.
[8] Y. S. Chen, S. Y. Ann, and Y. W. Lin, “”VE-Mobicast: A
Variant-Egg-Based Mobicast Routing Protocol for Sensor-
net”,” ACM Wireless Networks, vol. 14, pp. 199–218, Apr.
2008.
[9] Y. S. Chen, Y.-W. Lin, Y. J. Liao, and G. M. Chiu, “”HVE-
Mobicast: A Hierarchical-Variant-Egg-Based Mobicast Rout-
ing Protocol for Sensornets”,” Telecommunication Systems,
vol. 41, no. 2, 2009.
[10] Q. Huang, C. Lu, and G. C. Roman, “”Spatiotemporal Mul-
ticast in Sensor Networks”,” ACM Conference on Embedded
Networked Sensor Systems, pp. 205–217, Nov. 2003.
[11] Q. Huang, C. Lu, and G. C. Roman, “”Design and Analysis
of Spatiotemporal Multicast Protocols for Wireless Sensor
Networks”,” Telecommunication Systems on Wireless Sensor
Networks, vol. 26, pp. 129–160, Aug. 2004.
[12] Q. Huang, C. Lu, and G. C. Roman, “”Reliable Mobicast via
Face-Aware Routing”,” in IEEE International Conference on
Computer Communications, pp. 205–217, Mar. 2004.
[13] C. Chen, J. Ma, and K. Yu, “”Designing Energy Efficient
Wireless Sensor Networks with Mobile Sinks”,” ACM Sen-
sys’06 Workshop WSW, Oct. 2006.
[14] S. Park, B. Jo, and D. S. Han, “”An Efficient Mac Protocol for
Data Collection in Underwater Wireless Sensor Networks”,”
IEEE Military Communications Conference, pp. 1–5, Jan.
2009.
[15] D. Walker, “”Micro Autonomous Underwater Vehicle Con-
cept for Distributed Data Collection”,” IEEE OCEANS’06,
pp. 1–4, Sept. 2006.
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC-98-2221-E-305-003 
計畫名稱 水下網路之合作式繞徑與行動繞徑協定研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱
林勻蔚  
國立中正大學資訊工程系 博士班研究生 
會議時間地點 11/30/2009~12/4/2009 夏威夷 HONOLULU 
會議名稱 2009 IEEE GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS CONFERENCE 
發表論文題目 A Mobicast Routing Protocol in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 
 
 
一. 參加會議經過: 
2009 IEEE GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS CONFERENCE (GLOBECOM 
2009)是IEEE COMSOC MAJOR conference，11月30日在夏威夷的HONOLULU
召開，該會議由IEEE Communications Society舉辦，是關於無線通訊技術方面相
當重要的國際會議。由於此次會議包含四大主題，範圍涵蓋電腦、網路與通訊
等相關研究領域，探討工業與學術上的前瞻技術，眾多國際知名學者與通訊業
者均參與此會議。開會第一天一大早急急前往註冊，見識到大會的氣派與嚴肅
的氣氛，緊張油然而生，不敢鬆懈。前往聆聽專業講座見識到大師風範，對於
電腦通訊網路的技術研發與未來發展趨勢，深入淺出，引導式的說明，也釐清
之前個人對些許問題的疑惑。在會議休息時間時，與其他研究人員以生疏的英
文對話，令人印象深刻。本次報告的論文「A Mobicast Routing Protocol in 
Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks」，在這篇論文中我們提出了一個非常有效率的行動
傳繞徑播演算法，針對車載網路快速移動時的特性，傳播媒體檔案到特定範圍
內的移動區域，並同時確保移動區域內的車輛均可成功接收媒體檔案。論文發
表時間安排於第四天的上午時段，會議報告的房間內席位上坐滿了各國的學術
與科技人士，最後Q&A時，提問相當踴躍，以生澀的英文戰戰兢兢的回答，相
當有意思。或許，正是需要這樣的挑戰與經驗，可以更加的肯定自己的研究成
果的價值。在發表之後的隔天，獨自徒步在夏威夷的海灘、腳底踩著美麗的白
沙，感受身處在世界渡假聖地的悠閒氣息，在這裡，充滿許多的新奇與驚喜。
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
