 
 To unravel the information stored 
within gene sequences is a magnificent work 
in bioinformatics and a novel area in modern 
biology.  Since gene sequences are now 
recognised as an invaluable document of the 
history of life on earth, it is the crucial in the 
science of molecular evolution to reveal the 
evolutionary information written in the gene 
sequence and how this information may be 
recovered.  Phylogenetic inference analysis 
is one of the most important tools in bioin-
formatics for finding the evolutionary his-
tory. 
In the context of DNA sequence, phy-
logenetic inference analysis is usually done 
by constructing an evolutionary tree to re-
discover the evolutionary relationships 
among organisms.  The nodes and edges in 
such a tree represent sequences and muta-
tions, respectively.  The main task for phy-
logeny reconstruction is to construct a true 
phylogentic tree from molecular data. 
  Owing to the unusual tree topology 
and computational complexity of phylogeny 
reconstruction problem, in practice heuristics 
are used to reconstruct trees from data sets of 
more than 20 taxa.  In order to design and 
develop meta-heuristics, it is necessary to 
tailor a unique solution representation and 
neighborhood structure for the phylogeny 
reconstruction problem.  As a consequence, 
theoretical analysis for neighborhood struc-
ture can be provided and meta-heuristic or 
local search algorithmic approach to phy-
logeny reconstruction can be proposed.  
The objective in tree reconstruction is to 
obtain an accurate recovery of the topology 
of the phylogentic tree, and this is in general 
accomplished through the use of related op-
timization criteria.  Consequently, phylog-
eny reconstruction problem can be cast to 
different optimization models with specified 
optimality criteria [4].  
In general, the phylogenetic trees con-
sidered in this study should have the follow-
ing properties: 
1. The tree has n terminal nodes (leaves), 
one for each taxon’s DNA sequence. 
2. The tree is a rooted tree. 
3. The tree is a binary tree (bifurcation). 
  Notice that a rooted bifurcation phy-
logenetic tree topology can be seen as a 
spanning tree with n leafs (taxa) and n −1 
internal nodes. As a result, the number of 
possible phylogentic trees for a data set of n 
taxa is given by [1] 
22)!2(
)!32(
−−
−
nn
n .            (1) 
In graph theory, constructing an evolu-
tionary tree can be treated as a special mini-
mum spanning tree problem (MST).  In this 
case, phylogeny reconstruction can be 
viewed as a combinatorial optimization 
problem.  It should be noticed that phylog-
eny reconstruction is a NP-Complete prob-
lem, i.e., a large phylogeny reconstruction 
problem is computationally intractable.   
However, some algorithms for MST 
should be adopted to identify MSTs.  The 
cost of a spanning tree’s is the sum of the 
(fixed) costs of its edges, and there is no re-
striction on tree’s topology.  In this case, 
some well-know algorithms [13], such as 
Kruskal, Prim and etc., can be used to solve 
this problem.  However, in phylogenetic 
tree construction, the costs (parsimony scores 
or likelihoods) of edges are depending upon 
the evolutionary sequencing.  Consequently, 
any arc’s cost is undetermined unless the 
whole evolutionary sequencing is known. 
Furthermore, due to the special topology of 
phylogenetic tree, some existing approaches, 
exact or heuristics, for minimum spanning 
tree problems are not appropriate for phy-
logeny reconstruction. 
Even though debate continues on how 
and why meta-heuristics work, but most re-
searchers agree on the solution representation 
and neighborhood structure should have the 
following features [11]:  
1. The solution representation should not 
require a large amount of memory. 
 2
netic tree is a rooted complete binary tree 
with labeled leaf only, i.e., there is no label 
for the internal nodes.  As a result, there are 
 rooted complete binary trees corre-
sponding to one rooted bifurcation phyloge-
netic tree with the same n labeled leaf.  
)!2( −n
In order to make a rooted bifurcation 
phylogenetic tree corresponds to a unique 
Prüfer number, the procedure for assigned 
labels of internal nodes have to be designed 
as the follows:  
1. The label of the root is assigned to be 
2n-1  
2. The labels of internal nodes (except the 
root) are assigned according to the se-
quence of the leaf with the least label. 
Define  and  as the first and 
second positions of the labeled internal 
node  in the Prüfer number 
of a given rooted bifurcation phylogenetic 
tree with n leaves, respectively.  It must sat-
isfy the following conditions.  
)(1 kP )(2 kP
thk
)22,...,1( −+= nnk
Condition II:  
1.  { }32 , 2, ,1)12( −∈− nnP L
2.  { } kinkPi   ,  32 , 2, ,1)( ∀∀−∈ L
3.  22,,1  ),()( 21 −+=< nnkkPkP L
4.  32,,1  ),1()( 11 −+=+< nnkkPkP L
Theorem:  For any given phylogenetic tree 
with n leafs, there exists a unique Prüfer 
number of this tree satisfying Condition II.  
For any given Prüfer number under Condi-
tion II, there is only one phylogenetic tree 
with n leafs corresponding to this Prüfer 
number. 
Consequently, we can generate any fea-
sible solution representation from the entire 
feasible solution space.  
 Since the complicated structure of the 
proposed solution representation of phy-
logenetic trees, it is not suitable to apply 
meta-heuristics with population-bases search 
techniques, such as Genetic Algorithms (Gas) 
and Ant Colony Optimization (ACO). As a 
result, local search and simulated annealing 
are used to demonstrate the proposed solu-
tion representation of phylogenetic trees. For 
any given feasible Prüfer number, under 
Condition II, two neighborhood mechanisms, 
swap and insertion, are used to create its fea-
sible neighbor solutions.  And For any 
given feasible Prüfer number, under Condi-
tion I, only swap neighborhood mechanisms 
is used to create its feasible neighbor solu-
tions. 3 real DNA sequence data set [8] were 
used to test the proposed approach (5 runs of 
SA) and the computational results of were 
shown in Table 1 and 2, respectively. The 
results are benchmarked with common used 
phylogeny inference software, dnapenny 
(Table 3).  
四、成果自評 
In this work we consider two solution 
representations for constructing phyloge-
netic trees. A meta-heuristic, simulated an-
nealing, was developed to solve the combi-
natorial optimization in phylogeny infer-
ence from DNA sequence data.   
The Prüfer number under Condition II 
is a bijection between it and a given rooted 
bifurcation phylogenetic tree with n leaves.   
This modified Prüfer number could be used 
in any search techniques for phylogeny in-
ference.  However, the computational re-
sults demonstrate that the one-  (so-
lution representation under Condition I) is 
better than the bijection under the Condi-
tion II. We suspect it is due to the restric-
tions of Condition II.  
)!2( −n
To the author’s knowledge in working 
the solution representation and its corre-
sponding neighborhood structure, a bijection 
should be superior to one- mapping.  
As a result, a more sophisticated neighbor-
hood structure corresponding the bijection 
between Prüfer number and phylogenetic is 
necessary to be developed and remains for 
future research. 
)!2( −n
Table 1. Results of solution representation under   
Condition I 
 1 2 3 4  5 
 4
