          1
新穎變焦微透鏡元件之研製與量測 
Fabrication and Measurement of the Novel Tunable Microlens Devices 
 
黃素真、謝一鳴、黃政智 
國立聯合大學光電工程學系 
36003 苗栗市恭敬里聯大一號 
TEL：037-381359,    E-mail：june@nuu.edu.tw  
 
摘要 
本研究主要目的在於利用奈米粒子-多面體矽氧烷寡聚合物 (Polyhedral Oligomeric 
Silsequioxanes；POSS)所產生的垂直配向行為與特性，將其運用在液晶微透鏡元件的研
製與開發。我們嘗試將 POSS 奈米材料引致垂直配向技術與微滴法應用在平面微透鏡元
件的開發中，藉由相關實驗製作得到焦距可隨電壓改變的液晶微透鏡，並量測相關透鏡
之特性與焦距對電壓相依性的關係。 
關鍵字：多面體矽氧烷寡聚合物、液晶、配向、微透鏡 
          3
Fabrication and Measurement of the Novel Tunable Microlens Devices 
 
Shug-June Hwang Yi Ming Shieh, and Chen-Chih Huang  
 Department of Electro-Optical Engineering & Optoelectronics Research Center, National United University, 
Miaoli 360, Taiwan 
E-mail:june@nuu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
The project discloses and develops a novel while simple technique to make adaptive 
microlens devices. Nanoparticles-induced vertical alignment (NIVA) of the nematic liquid 
crystals (LC) was proposed to make a tunable liquid-crystal flat microlens with 
hybrid-aligned nematic (HAN) mode, which was fabricated using micro-dropping technique. 
The hybrid alignment was generated by dropping a minute amount of nanoparticles solution 
on the selective areas, which are surrounded by homogeneous alignment layer. Due to 
vertical alignment induced by the nanoparticles, the tunable microlens with concentric 
non-uniform distribution of the refractive index was then formed in the planar LC cell, even 
in the absence of any applied voltages. The focus effect of this flat lens was observed and its 
focal length can be electrically controlled at applied voltages of less than 4 V. 
Keywords: Liquid crystals, Liquid-crystal devices, Nanomaterials, Microlens 
 
1. Introduction  
Over the years, adaptive liquid crystal (LC) lenses are significantly attractive for a variety of 
applications in optic communication, machine vision, photonics, and eye glasses. Now 
various approaches have been developed to achieve tunable LC lenses, for example, 
surface-relief profile [1], shaped electrode [2-5], Fresnel zone type [6-7], elastomeric molds [8] 
and polymer network LC technique [7, 9]. The tunable focal length of LC lens is principally 
generated by the electric-field- induced director reorientations. It is well known that as an 
applied voltage exceeds the Fréedericksz transition threshold, the LC molecules are reoriented 
along the electric field direction. Such a molecular reorientation causes the LC refractive 
index to change, and alters the phase retardation of the input light. As a result, the focal length 
of the LC lens device is then modulated by the operating voltage. 
Due to nanoparticles of polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxanes (POSS) were observed to 
spontaneously make vertical alignment of LC molecules in our prior studies [10-11], the 
current study proposed a simple and low cost technique to construct a tunable nematic liquid 
crystal (LC) microlens by micro-dropping a tiny amount of the polyimide (PI) solution mixed 
with POSS nanoparticles on the certain area of the ITO substrate coated with homogeneous 
alignment layer. The proposed LC microlens, which is principally realized by the 
nanoparticles-induced vertical alignment, causes LC molecular reorientation of the 
parallel-aligned cell spatially changes from planar to hybrid-aligned distribution, in turn, 
makes an inhomogeneous refractive index distribution across the device. Consequently, the 
gradient refractive index in this lens device is formed. The inhomogeneous refractive index 
          5
As a result, nearly axially symmetrical for an incident extraordinary light wave is 
consequently formed and the lens property is expected.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig 1 (a) The fabrication procedure for a liquid-crystal microlens by micro-dropping 
PI/POSS solution on the homogeneous alignment layer, (b) the hybrid aligned LC 
concave microlens configuration. 
 
To characterize the lens effect of a LC microlens under the different applied voltage, an 
interferometer measurement based on phase retardation of the interference patterns was also 
done. The LC microlens was placed between the two crossed polarizers, namely polarizer and 
analyzer. The transmission axes of the two polarizers were set to be 45◦ from the rubbing 
direction. He–Ne laser beam of wavelength 0.633 μm, which is divided by the first polarizer 
into ordinary and extraordinary waves, is incident on the LC cell. The ordinary wave 
experiences a spatially uniform phase shift, while the extraordinary one a phase shift of nearly 
spherical profile. The second polarizer recombines the two waves and the interference 
between them takes place. The interference fringe patterns captured by a CCD can give the 
information of the phase shift experienced by the extraordinary wave. In this work, an ac 
voltage of 1 kHz frequency is applied on the ITO electrodes. In addition, the scheme of the 
measurement system was setup to further probe the voltage dependence of the focal length of 
a LC lens as shown in Fig. 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                     
 
Fig. 2 Experimental setup for measuring the voltage-dependent focal length of a LC 
microlens. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
To evaluate the lens performance, the imaging properties of the LC microlens on a 
microscopic scale were first evaluated by cross-polarized optical microscope (POM), the 
transmission axis of the polarizer was set to be parallel to the rubbing direction of the LC cell. 
As the LC microlens was placed on a card, which includes some digits and acts as an object, 
the image was found to be deformed as shown in Fig. 3. Five different images were observed 
Horizontal 
alignment 
layer
Rubbing direction
Rubbing direction
d
ITO
ITO
Vertical alignment layer
Homogenous alignment 
coating
Drop PI+Poss 0.2% for the 
alignment
ITO substrates
Sealing and liquid crystal injection
Pin hole 
   
  
polarizer LC microlens
Spatial 
filter 
sta   
Detector 
   
Power meter 
He-Ne Laser 
stage
Convex 
lens
          7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.4 Field induced transformation in the Interference fringes of a 0.68 mm diameter 
and 60μm thick hybrid-aligned LC microlens. The voltage is increased from 0V to 6V. 
The initial optical axis of the cell is oriented at 45° with respect to the crossed 
polarizers.  
 
the centre towards the edge at increasing voltages. Based on the observed interference fringes 
indicating the distribution of the effective birefringence Δneff, the phase shift of the liquid 
crystal film can be achieved as shown in Fig.5. In this work, we found the phase shift curve at 
V=5 Vrms is almost flat near the center because the LC molecules near the lens center tend 
approximately to homeotropic alignment. Under such a condition, the focal length is very 
large and approaches infinity as the applied voltage above 5 Vrms.  The focal length of the 
lens cell can be also calculated based on the measured interference fringes at different 
voltages, as  f = R 2 / 2ΔneffdLC, where R is the radius of the lens aperture and dLC  is the LC 
layer thickness. According to the measured ring counting, we found the inherent focal length 
of the LC is ~ 48 mm at the null voltage, as well as the focal length almost increases with 
increasing the voltages. At V~4 Vrms, the focal length reaches ~80 cm. Further increasing the 
voltage would cause the focal length to diverge.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Spatial distribution of retardation of a liquid-crystal microlens at various 
applied voltages 
 
The voltage-dependent focal length of the microlens arrays was measured directly by the 
experimental setup shown in Fig.2 and the results are obtained as shown in Fig. 6. As the 
voltage increases, the focal length decreases first, reaches a minimum at ~1 Vrms and then 
increases again. As the small voltage is applied on the LC lens, the focus effect is dominantly 
Ph
as
e 
sh
ift
 (Δ
n e
ffd
LC
/λ
) 
position (μm) 
0V 0.5V 2.0V 1.0V
2.5V 3.0V
4.0V 6.0V 
          9
arrays of very small size from several to several tens of micrometers with planar LC layers. It 
is worth to note that the microlens can be made by ink-jet printer to micro-drop the POSS 
solution on horizontal alignment layer, thus the presented method will be an extremely simple 
and low cost technology for making the tunable LC microlens devices. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. Cross-sections of a simulated director profile along the x and z directions at  
(a) 0 V;    (b) 1V, (c)2V .  
 
 
Acknowledgement 
We would like to acknowledge the funding of the research by the National Science Council of 
Taiwan (NSC 97-2622-E-239-003-CC3) and Suyin Optronics Corp., Taiwan. In addition, I am 
sincerely appreciated to Professor Jing-Shyang Horng of the National United University for 
their technical assistances. 
 
References and links  
1. H.-S. Ji, J.-H. Kim, and S. Kumar, “Electrically controllable microlens array fabricated by 
anisotropic phase separation from liquid-crystal and polymer composite materials,” Opt. 
Lett. 28, 1147–1149 (2003). 
2. T. Scharf, Joel Fontannaz, M. Bouvier, and J. Grupp, “An Adaptive Microlens Formed by 
Homeotropic Aligned Liquid Crystal with Positive Dielectric Anisotropy,” Mol. Cryst. 
Liq. Cryst. 331, 235-243 (1999). 
3. M. Ye,Y. Yokoyama, and S. Sato, “ Liquid crystal lens prepared utilizing patterned 
molecular orientations on cell walls,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 141112 (2006). 
4. H. Ren and S. T. Wu, ”Adaptive liquid crystal lens with large focal length tenability,” Opt. 
Express. 14, 11292- 11298 (2006). 
5. M. Ye, B. Wang, and S. Sato, “Realization of liquid crystal lens of large aperture and low 
driving voltages using thin layer of weakly conductive material,” Opt. Express. 16, 
4302-4308 (2008). 
6. Y.-H. Fan, H. Ren, and S.-T. Wu, “Electrically switchable Fresnel lens using a 
polymer-separated composite film,” Opt. Express. 13, 4141-4147 (2005). 
7. Y. H. Fan, H. Ren and S. T. Wu, “Switchable Fresnel lens using polymer-stabilized liquid 
crystals,” Opt. Express. 11, 3080-3086 (2003), http://www.opticsexpress.org 
/abstract.cfm?URI=OPEX-11-23-3080. 
8. T. K. Shin, J. R. Ho, and J. W. John Cheng, “A New Approach to Polymeric Microlens 
Array Fabrication Using Soft Replica Molding,” IEEE Photon.Technol. Lett. 16, 
2078-2080 (2004) 
9. H. Ren and S. T. Wu, “Tunable electronic lens using a gradient polymer network liquid 
crystal, “Appl. Phys. Lett. 82, 22-25 (2003).  
