 中文摘要 
本二年期計畫的目的在於發展一種具有更佳影像品質與切面數的磁振灌流影像
方法。首先，我們提出將螺旋槳式造影技術與動脈質子標記的技術相結合的方法。
在第一年度中我們實現了以螺旋槳式面回訊造影的方法達成腦血流圖，並且以電
腦模擬的方式尋找最佳化的影像重建參數以減輕影像的模糊效應。除此之外，一
種可以增進影像點分散函數的新式非對稱葉片方法也在此發展出來並予以討論。
在第二年度中，我們以灌流影像的實際應用為發展目標，我們應用並改進了一種
新的灌流影像方法”血管空間佔據”，並實際運用於小動物灌流影像的掃描。除
此之外，我們也對傳統的動態磁化率對比灌流影像方法予以改進，達到更高的準
確度。 
關鍵字:  灌流, 腦血流, 腦血量, 螺旋槳式面回訊影像, 動脈質子標記, 血管
空間佔據 
Abstract 
The purpose of this two-year project is to develop a magnetic resonance perfusion 
imaging method with improved image quality and more slices coverage.  The 
method proposed in this project is to combine the PROPELLER technique with 
arterial spin labeling.  In the first fiscal year we have implemented PROPELLER 
EPI for acquiring cerebral blood flow map and optimized the image reconstruction 
procedure by computer simulations to alleviate the image blur.  Furthermore, a novel 
asymmetric blade acquiring scheme was also invented with improved point spread 
function.  In the second year, we implemented and modified a novel technique 
“Vascular Space Occupancy” for assessing perfusion parameters on small animals.  
Furthermore, we also modified the conventional dynamic susceptibility contrast 
method to achieve higher accuracy. 
 
Keywords:  perfusion, cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), 
PROPELLER EPI, arterial spin labeling, vascular space occupancy 
 
 
 
  
PROPELLER data, which were reconstructed using different schemes to cover the k 
space.  Different weighting constant (k=0, 0.01, 0.1, 0.5) were utilized in 
reconstructing blades using the weighting function: s = exp(-ky), where the s denotes 
the weighted data, and y represented the distance from the central line of the blade 
along the phase encoding direction.  A circular phantom with radius of 24 pixels was 
also simulated with contaminating random noise described above.  After distorted 
the image using synthetic rotated field maps with monotonic decreasing field along 
the phase encoding direction of each blade to generate a 3-pixel displacement at the 
boundary of the phantom in the phase encoding direction, the k-space data were 
re-sampled to simulate the acquisition of PROPELLER blades.  The width from the 
edge to the half maximum intensity was measured to quantify the blurring effect on 
the air-tissue interface.  Figure 1 shows the SNR as a function of number of phase 
encoding lines in each blade.  It is noted that the SNR increased with less phase 
encoding lines in each blade, due to a shorter TE and more signal averages around the 
k space center. Compared to non-weighting (k=0), the SNR decreased to 0.5%, 3.8%, 
and 16.9% using an exponential window with k = 0.01, 0.1, and 0.5, respectively 
(blade size 128 frequency encoding x32 phase encoding).  Figure 2 shows the 
profiles at the simulated tissue-air interface from the reconstructed PROPELLER EPI 
images.  While combining blades without off-resonance induced geometrical 
distortion, the simulated edge profile (red dash line) is close to the ideal phantom edge 
(solid black lines).  The width at half maximum at edge became as large as 1.91 
pixels when we distorted the blade image, but substantially reduced to 0.86 pixel 
when k = 0.5, which indicates a de-blurred result. 
 
Fig.1  SNR as a function of number of phase encoding lines in one blade.  More 
blades are acquired to cover whole k space with small blade size. The SNR increases 
when the center of k space was highly averaged.  Note that the SNR was reduced 
when using a higher k value and a larger blade. 
0.7
0.9
1.1
1.3
1.5
1.7
1.9
2.1
0 20 40 60# of lines
S
N
R
k=0 k=0.01 k=0.1 k=0.5
 Fig.3 Density maps of original PROPELLER with symmetric blades (1a) and 
asymmetric blades (1b). The intensity denotes the number of overlapped blades on 
each point of k space. 
 
Fig.4 Point Spread Functions of LAP EPI under off-resonance frequency is showed. 
Note that the PSF of asymmetric blades combined image has much lower side peaks. 
 
 Fig 6a blade images of FAIR. 
 
Fig 6b selective IR spin-echo EPI (left) and 6c non-selective IR spin-echo EPI (right). 
Fig 7 subtracted perfusion image of PROPELLER EPI 
 
plot of the first pass CBV and recirculation CBV of one slice of our experiments.  
The results display considerably positive correlation between the first pass and 
recirculation CBV map.  R squares were found to be 0.8958 0.0448, which are 
consistent with our hypothesis.  However, an intercept of regression line was also 
showed in Fig. 8, which implies the deviation from proportionality within at least one 
of the methods.  Therefore, we applied MION CBV map as a reference to compare 
with first pass and recirculation CBV maps, and r squares were found to be 0.62193 
0.15744, 0.69407 0.1515, respectively (Table 1).  For intercept per slope values 
were found to be 0.0720.044 and 0.0330.042, respectively as well, which represent 
the normalize offset of the first pass and recirculation CBV maps.  The higher r 
square and lower normalized offset between recirculation CBV and MION CBV once 
more support the feasibility of recirculation CBV map, since MION CBV map is 
taken to be as an ideal CBV. The recirculation CBV map is highly relative to first pass 
CBV map.  Besides, the superior regression curves with MION CBV map guarantee 
the advantage of using the recirculation CBV for small animal imaging.  The errors 
of first pass CBV may come from the fast changing peak value, relative low scanning 
speed of MRI, and even the nonlinearity between ΔR2* and contrast agent 
concentration around peak value.  On the contrary, the recirculation CBV seems 
more reliable by recruiting more data points for calculation, since the extravasation 
supposed to be minor in the short duration of DSC imaging.  In conclusion, we 
confirmed the feasibility of using the recirculation part of CT for relative CBV 
measurement.  One may also consider integrating the total area under the CT curve 
including both the first pass and recirculation parts, to further enrich the data points 
and to enhance the reliability. 
 
Fig 8. The scatter distribution between first pass and recirculation in rat brain. Note 
the high correlation between first pass CBV (x axis) and recirculation CBV (y axis) 
 
 
 
 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
090502-22
first pass
re
c
ir
c
u
la
it
o
n
 
y = 140*x + 14.73
data 1
   linear
without partial volume in rat brain images when using the method mentioned in 
previous report.  The A·Cb is also measured by another phantom experiment by 
drawing rat blood from tail artery.  An aCBV map on the axial slice at anterior 
commissure was shown in figure 8.  The R
2
 value of two-fold down-sampled VASO 
aCBV map and DSC rCBV map were calculated as a function of TI and shown in Fig 
9a, in which the optimized TI is shown at 1118 ms with a highest R2 0.67.  It can be 
noted that the R
2
 decreased significantly when the TI deviated from the optimized 
value.  The scatter plot of VASO aCBV and DSC rCBV at the optimized TI is also 
shown in Fig 9b with highly correlation.  The optimized TIs of four experiments are 
1111.8±101.2 ms with R2 as 0.71±0.037, and the mean aCBV is 5.51±1.30 ml/100ml 
tissue, which is close to previous report of aCBV value at 4.77 ml/100ml tissue.  In 
this study, we successfully show the feasibility of generating aCBV maps using VASO 
techniques with correlation to the DSC measured relative values on a rat model.  We 
use the DSC rCBV map as an optimization reference because it’s a robust method 
with high contrast to noise ratio.  Although the absolute quantification can also be 
accomplished by the DSC method itself, the VASO method has the advantage of 
practicability without the complicated procedures such as finding and deconvolving 
an arterial input function, which is required for the absolute quantification of DSC 
method and possibly introduce systematic errors.  The optimized TIs are not a fixed 
value for different experiments.  Therefore, it is also shown here that the R
2
 of CBV 
value could be decreased significantly when using fixed TI depart from the optimized 
one.  Therefore, our proposed modified VASO method has the potential to increase 
the accuracy of aCBV quantification, which should be beneficial for longitudinal 
monitoring of brain perfusion level. 
 
Fig 8 absolute CBV map of a rat axial slice 
can be accomplished by T2 weighted sequences.  Therefore, our strategy of 
multi-slices absolute CBV is to find the high-correlated regression line between the 
VASO absolute CBV and the overlapped ΔR2 relative CBV map, and then covert the 
multi-slices ΔR2 map to absolute CBV values.  The timing diagram of VASO, 
dynamic susceptibility contrast imaging, and T2 weighted multi-slices images are 
shown as in Fig 10.  The imaging parameters are as follows: 14 TIs with equal 
interval from 50~2650, TE/TR=48.79/6000ms, FOV 32mm, matrix 64x64, single 
slice spin echo EPI for VASO sequence; TE/TR=25/500 ms single slice gradient echo 
EPI with other identical parameters for DSC imaging while injection of Gd-DTPA; 
TE/TR=16.2/2500 8 slices gradient echo EPI for ΔR2 mapping by injection of MION 
with the 2nd slice is at the same position as other single slice images.  3 male 
Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized using isoflurane or alpha-chloralose.  0.3 ml 
of Gd-DTPA (Magnevist, Bayer Schering) and 20 mg/kg of MION were injected by 
tail vein.  The R square values of the correlation of 3 methods are calculated.  
Besides, we also measured absolute CBV map two times by using VASO at two 
distinct slices and different time on one rat to validate the robustness of this hybrid 
multi-slice method. 
 
 
 
Fig 10 Timing Diagram 
 
One CBV map calculated by this method is shown in Fig 11.  The scatter plot of the 
ΔR2 relative CBV map verses VASO absolute CBV is shown in Fig12a, and the 
scatter plot of the ΔR2 and DSC CBV are shown in 12b.  The mean R square 
between absolute CBV of VASO and ΔR2 in three experiments is 0.65±0.09, and the 
R square between ΔR2 and DSC relative CBV is 0.87±0.01.  The absolute CBV map 
shown in Fig 11 was measured again by VASO at a distinct slice and a new regression 
line was calculated to generate a new CBV map at the identical slice.  The difference 
of absolute CBV map is shown in Fig 13.  Note that the small differences shown in 
this figure, and it means that the proposed hybrid method can calculate robust and 
consistent absolute value for multiple slices at different time with only 1.3±1.03%. 
In the last study, Absolute cerebral blood volume (aCBV) can be assessed by utilizing 
the signal difference of vascular space occupancy (VASO) sequence before and after 
injection of T1 shortening contrast agent.  We propose an alternative method to 
reduce the T2 effect when using relative long TE.  Pre and post T1 fitting were used 
to reconstruct IR images without the post contrast T2 shortening effect.  Experiments 
on rat model were conducted to investigate the feasibilities. sing the VASO technique, 
the aCBV could be calculated as:  aCBV= (Spre-Spost)/(A·Cb) , where Spre and Spost are 
the intensities of VASO images before and after injection of T1 shortening contrast 
agent, respectively.  A·Cb is a scaling constant which equals the intensity when the 
pixel is full of blood.  In this study, non-selective inversion recovery (IR) spin-echo 
EPI sequence was implemented with 14 TIs from 50 to 2650 ms to calculate pre and 
post contrast T1 and the M0exp(-TE/T2), which is the initial height of IR at TI=0.  
The T2 effect of contrast agent was corrected by reconstruct the IR images with the 
pre contrast initial height M0exp(-TE/T2pre) and post contrast T1post as the following 
equations: 
 
In this study, five normal male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with 
1.5% Isoflurane and scanned in a 4.7T animal MRI scanner (Bruker Biospec 47/40).  
Non-selective inversion recovery spin-echo EPI sequence was implemented with 14 
TIs from 50 to 2650 ms to calculate T1 map on a 4.7T animal MRI system (Bruker 
Biospec 47/30, Germany).  Imaging parameters are as follows: TE/TR= 48.79/6000 
ms, FOV: 32 mm, matrix: 64x64, single slice, slice thickness 1.5 mm.  0.3 ml of 
Gd-DTPA (Magnevist) was injected manually from tail vein.  A tube containing 
saline was fixed on the surface coil for the reference of scaling constant A·Cb.(shown 
in Fig. 14)  One ml of arterial blood was drawn from three rats for additional 
phantom experiments with the same sequence and parameters, and deriving T1 of rat 
blood and a modified scaling constant Cb exp[-TE(R2blood-R2water)] at TE 48.79 ms.  
Then, pre and post contrast IR images at the nulling time of rat blood were subtracted.  
The aCBV map was calculated by (Spre-Spost, modified)/{A·Cb exp[-TE(R2blood-R2water)]}. 
 
generating the Spre and Spost, modified with the TR as infinite long and the Nulling TI as 
1130 ms, which was calculated from the measured T1 of blood as 1630 ms.  
Modified scaling constant Cb exp[-TE(R2blood-R2water)] was also measured in our 
phantom experiment as 0.43±0.04.  After obtaining the A value from the mean 
intensity in water tube, the aCBV map was generated as shown in Fig. 16.  In 
conclusion, we successfully implemented our proposed method for absolute 
quantification of CBV value on rat model.  The systematic error of T2 effect could 
be reduced by an alternative method.  This method could be practical on small 
animal scanner while TE of spin echo EPI cannot be reduced to insignificant values.  
In addition, when using longer TE, the intensities ratio between water and blood will 
not be equal to Cb and modification was applied since the T2 of water and blood are 
different. 
 
 
三、計畫成果自評 
Our efforts spent in this two years project have created a massive amount of results.  
Six topics including computer simulations of SNR and weighting schemes of 
PROPELLER EPI were explored.  The original idea of combing ASL and 
PROPELLER EPI was implemented.  First, by simulations, we demonstrate that an 
exponential weighting can successfully decrease the image blurring caused by 
combining distorted EPI blades in PROPELLER.  However, using a large 
exponential weighting constant can reduce the SNR.  We show that a windowing 
parameter k=0.1 can de-blur the reconstruction considerably without substantial SNR 
degradation.  Although the real field map in actual PROPELLER acquisitions can be 
more complicated than our simulated monotonic decreasing fields, the exponential 
weighting scheme is a potential method to alleviate the image blurring effect.  
Furthermore, a new PROPELLER readout scheme using asymmetric blades was also 
investigated.  By shifting phase encoding lines to another side, the TE of EPI can be 
shortened.  This technique could possibly be advantageous for implementing long 
axis PROPELLER on large matrix size or imaging short T2* tissues using gradient 
echo EPI blades with very short TE.  In the ASL study, our results showed the ability 
of PROPELLER EPI to acquire ASL images with high SNR, image contrast, and a 
reduced distortion.  We expect that the PROPELLER EPI can be combined with 
other advanced ASL techniques.  On the other hand, we modified the DSC perfusion 
method and VASO techniques.  The DSC method is a popular conventional method 
for brain perfusion assessment.  However, it is not widely used on small animal 
models.  We proposed to use the recirculation phase for measuring relative CBV, and 
better correlation with another CBV assessing method is achieved.  Recently, a new 
perfusion measurement method called vascular space occupancy (VASO) raised 
attentions of perfusion researchers for its abilities of blood volume quantification.  
This new absolute CBV quantification method VASO is also implemented in this 
出差人 王福年
單位
系所
清華大學生醫工程
與環境科學系
職稱 助理教授
起迄日期 2010.04.29~2010.05.8
出國
地點
瑞典斯德哥爾摩市
出國目的 參加國際醫用磁共振年會
參加會議名
稱
(中文) 國際醫用磁共振年會
(英文) International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine
發表論文題
目
(中文)
1. 修正 CBV絕對定量時對比劑的 T2效應。
2. 由動態磁化率對比影像的再循環部分量測大鼠模型的腦血量。
3. 以動態對比顯影磁振造影評估頭頸部 Neoplasm 在放射治療後的反應。
4. 以現代 GPGPU平行運算方法加速 EPI 幾何扭曲的相位調變技術。
5. 減低螺旋槳式 QBI 影像的模糊效應。
(英文)
1. Correction for the T2 Effect of Contrast Agent on Absolute CBV
Quantification Using VASO
2. Measuring CBV by the Recirculation Part of Dynamic Susceptibility
Contrast MRI on Rat Model
3. Evaluating the Response to the Radiation Therapy of the Head and
Neck Neoplasms by Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI
4. Accelerating Phase Modulation for Correcting EPI Geometry
Distortion by Modern GPGPU Parallel Computation
5. Reduce Blurring Effects in PROPELLER QBI
一、 經過
第 18 屆的國際醫用磁共振年會於瑞典斯德哥爾摩市的 Convention
Center 舉行，議程於 5月 1日至 7日共分五天進行，之前再外加兩天
的 educational courses。五天的 Scientific Meetings 總共有七百八十三
場的 oral presentations，參加人數將近約五千人。本人於四月二十九
日晚間搭乘班機由桃園國際機場出發，四月三十日抵達斯德哥爾摩市
機型中加入最多八組激發線圈，可以減低不均勻的 B1 造成的影像假
影。
今年的 Young investigator award 在技術發展方面由提出”B1
mapping by Bloch-Siegert shift”方法的 Dr. Sacolick 獲得，Block-Siegert
shift 是在 NMR的研究上已提出數十年的技術，但是首次藉由MRI 實
現。藉由連續的 B1 field 共振，可量測 off-resonance B1 所產生的相位
差，進而計算出 B1 場的分佈，可說是相當創新的研究。B1 mapping
在近年持續受到討論，也有多種方法嘗試量測與修正不均勻的 B1
場，可能與近年來的multiple transmission 硬體發展相關，預計仍會是
將來幾年的重要議題。
本實驗室延續去年發表的新式灌流絕對定量技術，於本次會議發
表修正 T2 效應的新方法，本實驗室也藉此機會與國際間專家交流心
得，成果也將修改後投稿至國際期刊。另外，本實驗室的博一學生彭
馨蕾發表了一篇以 DCE 討論放射治療反應的論文，以新式的數學分
析方法探討組織的灌流反應。清大醫環系大四學生吳倚伶，也在本人
的指導下進行灌流影像的專題研究，此次會議也有發表一篇以再循環
方式估計腦血量的論文，研究中證實在大鼠模型上具有較為 robust 的
量測結果。除此之外，本實驗室也與台科大電機系黃騰毅教授合作，
發表關於 EPI 影像修正的方法，以及與高醫周銘鐘教授合作發表解決



97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王福年 計畫編號：97-2221-E-007-001-MY2 
計畫名稱：超快速磁振造影脈衝程序設計: 應用於非侵入性的多截面灌流量測 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 5 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
