2中文摘要
藉由實驗觀察，本文探討以摩擦攪拌點焊的鋁合金6061-T6 膝式剪力試片的微結構
及破壞機制。不同的製程參數被使用於焊接鋁薄板。藉由檢視以摩擦攪拌點焊的膝
式剪力試片在破壞前及破壞後的斷面的光學顯微鏡照片，在剪力負載的情況下，這
些摩擦攪拌點焊的破壞機制是焊珠拉出(nugget pullout)的模式。實驗結果顯示，
在剪力負載的情況下， 破壞是從接近焊珠中心的攪拌區開始，並且沿著焊珠的周界
進行。根據剪力試片在不同微結構區的微硬度數據，在試片的熱影響區及熱機影響
區的介面是試片硬度最低的區域，此區是導致試片破壞的裂痕的起始區。計畫期間
已發表國際會議論文一篇，並已投稿國際期刊論文一篇 (Journal of Materials
Processing Technology)。
關鍵詞：摩擦攪拌點焊、微結構、破壞機制。
英文摘要
Microstructures and failure mechanisms of spot friction welds in aluminum 6061-T6 lap-
shear specimens are investigated based on experimental observations. Optical micrographs
of the cross sections of spot friction welds in lap-shear specimens before and after failure
are examined. These spot friction welds show the failure mode of nugget pullout under
lap-shear loading conditions. The experimental observations suggest that under lap-shear
loading conditions, the failure is initiated near the possible original notch tip in the stir zone
and the failure propagates along the circumference of the nugget to final fracture.
Microhardness data of base metal, heat affected zone, thermal-mechanical affected zone
and stir zone are obtained. The interface between the heat affected zone and the thermal-
mechanical affected zone should be the softest region, where the cracks of spot friction
welds in the lap-shear specimens under the loadings initiate and lead to fracture of the
specimens. One international conference paper is published. One journal paper is
submitted to Journal of Materials Processing Technology.
Keywords: Spot friction weld; microstructure, failure mechanism.
4____________
* Corresponding author: Tel.:+886-4-22857207; fax:+886-4-22858362
E-mail address: daw@nchu.edu.tw (D.-A. Wang).
1. Introduction
A rapid development of applications of lightweight materials in the automotive
industry is reflected in the increasing use of aluminum and magnesium alloys. Many
components produced from these alloys, by stamping, casting, extrusion and forging, have
to be joined as a part of manufacturing processes. Resistance spot welding (RSW) is the
most commonly used joining technique for parts made of steel sheets. The main
advantages of the resistance spot welding process are its relatively low capital cost, ease of
maintenance, and high tolerance to poor part fit up compared with other fusion welding
technologies [1]. However, resistance spot welding of aluminum sheets by contrast has
several technological challenges. First, the electrode tip life is shorter compared with that
of welding steel sheets. Resistance spot welding of aluminum sheets is also likely to
produce poor welds such as porosity and cracks, as reported in Thornton et al. [2] and Gean
et al. [3]. Recently, a new spot friction welding (SFW) technology has been developed by
Mazda Motor Corporation and Kawasaki Heavy Industry [4,5] with much lower operating
and investment cost.
A schematic illustration of the spot friction welding process is shown in Fig. 1 [4].
The process is applied to join two metal sheets. As shown in Fig. 1, a rotating tool with a
probe pin plunges into the upper sheet and a backing tool beneath the lower sheet supports
the tool downward force. The tool downward force and the tool rotational speed are
maintained for an appropriate time to generate frictional heat. Then, heated and softened
6mm, the indentation diameter of approximately 12 mm, the overlap length of the upper and
lower sheets being 50 mm, and the length of 100 mm as shown in Fig. 2. Note that two
spacers with a length of 30 mm are attached to the both ends of the lap-shear specimen to
induce a pure shear to the interfacial plane of the nugget for the two sheets and to avoid the
initial realignment during testing. The indentation on the surface of the upper sheet of the
specimen is caused by the tool plunging into the upper sheet of the specimen.
The welds were made by using a hydraulic riveting machine (LF-168, Chang Lian
Fa Machinery Co., Ltd.) as shown in Fig. 3(a). A fixture was designed for spot friction
welding of specimens. The fixture with a specimen is shown in Fig. 3(b). The specimen is
mounted on a backing tool by four bolts. Granite was selected as the material for the
backing tool to achieve low heat conductance through the backing tool. A load cell (CLP-
5B, Tokyo Sokki Kenkyujo Co., Ltd.) was placed under the backing tool to measure the
tool downward force during spot friction welding. We used a NI SCXI-1121 isolated input
module with a sampling rate up to 333 kS/s to acquire signals from the load cell and a NI
SCXI-1600 module with a sampling rate of 200 kS/s and 16-bit resolution to provide data
acquisition and control capabilities.
For the conventional spot friction welding process, the important processing
parameters are the tool geometry, the tool rotational speed, the tool holding time and the
tool downward force. As schematically shown in Fig. 4, during the spot friction welding
process in this investigation, the tool rotational speed is kept constant and the tool
downward force is controlled by the riveting machine control unit. Initially, the tool
downward force increases almost linearly for a period of time. Then the downward force is
kept nearly constant for a period of time and finally decreases almost linearly to zero. As
shown in the figure, it represents the time that the tool contacts to the top surface of the
upper sheet and ft represents the time that tool extracts from the top surface of the upper
8close-up bottom view of the spot friction weld on the lower sheet. In the bottom view, the
contact mark due to the backing tool can be seen.
In order to understand the failure mechanisms of spot friction welds under lap-shear
loading conditions, optical micrographs of the cross sections of spot friction welds before
and after failure were obtained. A systematic investigation of the processing parameters of
tool holding time and constant tool downward force was carried out in order to obtain the
spot friction welds of the lap-shear specimens failed in the circumferential failure mode
under tensile tests. Note that the circumferential failure mode may be preferred over the
interfacial failure mode. It can be explained by the higher failure loads of the friction stir
spot welds in aluminum 6061-T6 lap-shear specimens failed in the circumferential mode
than those failed in the interfacial mode [10]. Sawhill and Furr [11] reported similar results
for the resistance spot welds of some carbon steels.
Fig. 7(a) shows a micrograph of the cross section of a spot friction weld before
testing. Fig. 7(b) shows close-up views of regions I, II, III and IV as marked in Fig. 7(a)
and a micrograph of the base metal (BM) not shown in Fig. 7(a). In Fig. 7(a), there is an
indentation with a profile that reflects the shape of the probe pin and the flat tool shoulder
of the tool. As shown in the figure, the bottom surface is kept almost flat except near the
central hole. Near the outer area of the central hole, there is a gray area which represents
the stir zone (SZ) where the upper and lower sheets are bonded. The diameter of the nugget
is nearly 6.5 mm, which is the diameter of the nearly circular gray area of the micrograph
shown in Fig. 7(a). Note that for common low carbon steel, the standard nugget diameter
for resistance spot welds is 5.5 mm with a 5.5 mm sheet thickness [12]. Two notch tips can
be seen near points A and B. The notch tips extended into the weld appear to be formed
from the unwelded interfaces between the two sheets. Note that the weld joint has no
10
the nugget pullout failure mode can be seen on the lower sheet of the failed specimen in Fig.
8(a). Fig. 8(b) shows a top view of the failed spot friction weld. As shown in this figure,
the hole diameter is almost the same as the indentation diameter iD or the tool shoulder
diameter tD . Fig. 8(c) shows a top view of a spot friction weld on the lower sheet of the
failed specimen. As shown in Fig.s 8(a) and 8(c), a small portion near the left hand side of
the remaining weld nugget is removed possibly due to tearing and rubbing of the upper
sheet. Fig.s 8(a) and 8(c) show clearly the failure occurs very close to the outer
circumference of the shoulder indentation.
Fig. 9 shows a cross sectional view and close-up views of a spot friction weld in a
partially failed lap-shear specimen. The arrows in Fig. 9(a) schematically show the loading
direction. Note that the HAZ, the TMAZ, and the SZ are also indicated in Fig. 9(a). As
shown in Fig. 9(a), near the upper right portion of the spot friction weld, marked as Leg 2, a
crack (marked as point A) appears to emanate from the tip of a curved notch that terminates
near the boundary of the SZ. However, no failure or damage can be seen in the lower left
leg, marked as Leg 1, due to the different geometries of the nugget in the upper and the
lower sheets, in contrast to the failure process of the resistance spot weld as shown in Lin et
al. [14]. The failure of the spot friction weld in the lap-shear specimen may be initiated in
the upper sheet near the middle part of the nugget, marked as point A and then propagates
along the nugget circumference, marked as point B. Finally, the upper sheet is torn off with
some part of the nugget, marked as point C. A similar failure mechanism was also
observed in HSLA steel lap-shear specimens [15] and in mild steel square-cup specimens
under combined opening and shear loading conditions [16].
Fig. 9(b) is a close-up view of region II shown in Fig. 9(a). In Fig. 9(c), a curved
notch is shown near the right hand side of the weld nugget. Note that the zigzag curved
interface of the upper and lower sheet is shown in the square marked as D. As shown in
12
the SZ. The hardness initially decreases upon approaching the boundary between the BM
and the HAZ, then drops sharply to a minimum in the TMAZ. After passing the TMAZ,
the hardness gradually increases up to the SZ hardness of about 90 Hv. The interface
between the HAZ and TMAZ should be the softest region according to Fig 10, where the
cracks of spot friction welds in the lap-shear specimens under the loadings initiate and lead
to fracture of the specimens. Note that Liu et al. [13] reported that some of their friction-
stir-welded joints of 2017-T351 aluminum alloy fractured in the softened regions near the
interface between weld nuggets and TMAZs.
As also shown in Fig. 10(b), the BM is the hardest regions (approximately 120 Hv)
of the specimen. This is contrary to predictions based on grain size arguments alone, which
suggest the hardness maximum should occur in the SZ. The considerable softening of the
material in the SZ in contrast to that in the BM can be explained by a significant reduction
of dislocation density and precipitate distributions [18-21].
4. Conclusions
Microstructures and failure mechanisms of spot friction welds in aluminum 6061-
T6 lap-shear specimens were investigated based on experimental observations. For spot
friction welds made in this investigation, the circumferential failure mode or the nugget
pullout failure mode was observed. The experimental results suggest that under lap-shear
loading conditions, the failure is initiated near the stir zone in the middle part of the nugget
and the failure propagates along the circumference of the nugget to final fracture. The
location of the initial necking/shear failure is near the possible original notch tip and the
failures of the spot friction welds were fractured through the thermal-mechanical affected
zone near the weld nuggets. Based on the microhardness measurements, the hardness
14
[4] R. Sakano, K. Murakami, K. Yamashita, T. Hyoe, M. Fujimoto, M. Inuzuka, U. Nagao,
H. Kashiki, Development of spot FSW robot system for automobile body members, in:
Proceedings of the 3rd International Symposium of Friction Stir Welding, Kobe, Japan,
2001.
[5] T. Iwashita, Method and apparatus for joining, US Patent 6601751 B2, August, 5,
2003.
[6] C.J. Dawes, W.M. Thomas, Friction stir process welds aluminum alloys, Welding
Journal 75 (1996) 41-45.
[7] D. Wang, S. Liu, Study of friction stir welding of aluminum, Journal of Materials
Science 39 (2004) 1689-1693.
[8] D.J. Waldron, R.G. Pettit, US Patent 6168067 (2001).
[9] W.M. Thomas, E.D. Nicholas, J.C. Needham, M.G. Murch, P. Temple-smith, C.J.
Dawes, US Patent 5460317 (1995).
[10] D.-A. Wang, S.-C. Lee, Effect of welding force on failure loads of friction stir spot
welds in aluminum 6061-T6 lap-shear specimens, to be submitted for publication,
2006.
[11] J.M. Sawhill, S.T. Furr, Spot weldibility tests for high-strength steels, SAE Technical
Paper no. 810352, Society of Automotive Engineering, Warrendale, PA., 1981.
[12] Z. Lin, Y. Zhang, G. Chen, Y. Li, Study on real-time measurement of nugget diameter
for resistance spot welding using a neuro-fuzzy algorithm, in Instrumentation and
Measurement Technology Conference, Como, Italy, 18-20 May 2004, 2230-2233.
[13] H.J. Liu, H. Fujii, M. Maeda, K. Nogi, Tensile properties and fracture locations of
friction-stir-welded joints of 2017-T351 aluminum alloy, Journal of Materials
Processing Technology 142 (2003) 692-696.
16
Table 1
Chemical compositions (wt.%) of 6061-T6 aluminum sheets
Mg 1.00
Si 0.59
Fe 0.51
Cu 0.30
Cr 0.22
Mn 0.05
Ti 0.02
Zn <0.01
Al Rem.
18
Fig. 2. A schematic plot of a lap-shear specimen and the applied force P shown as the bold
arrows.
20
Fig. 4. A schematic plot of the processing parameters as a function of time.
22
Fig. 6. (a) A lap-shear spot friction weld specimen of aluminum 6061-T6, (b) a close-up
view of the spot friction weld on the upper sheet, (c) a close-up view of the spot friction
weld on the lower sheet.
24
Fig. 8. (a) A failed spot friction weld lap-shear specimen, (b) a top view of a spot friction
weld on the upper sheet of the failed specimen, (c) a top view of a spot friction weld on the
lower sheet of the failed specimen.
