 A Remote Microprocessor-Based Monitoring 
and Control System via Internet in Case Study of 
Pet Care 
 
H. C. Lin1, K. H. Pai1, C. H. Chen2, S. Y. Lai1, Y. C. Lai1 
1Department of Electronic Engineering, National Chin-Yi University of Technology, Taiwan 
2Department of Electrical Engineering, Chienkuo Technology University, Taiwan 
Corresponding email: hclin@ncut.edu.tw 
 
Abstract: Since the past years, the microprocessor (8051) has 
been still playing an indispensable role as a controller in industry 
applications because of fast executing process, low-cost, small size 
and low power consumption, etc. It, however, usually lacks of 
long distance transmission, graphical interface and vision. On the 
other hand, VB is now a very popular software package for 
graphical interface design due to easy exploring and low price. 
Combining both superiorities as above, this paper develops a 
remote visional microprocessor-based monitoring and control 
platform using VB graphical interface. The nearby PC (server) 
can collect real-time sensing signals from the 8051 through RS232 
and transmit it to remote PCs (client) for on line monitoring 
mechanism via Internet. Also, the client can send the control 
signals to the server and thus control the 8051. The real-time case 
study for feeding care in the Pet House is provided to verify its 
well performance and remote Web-based capability in term of 
fast, simple and robust performance. 
 
Keywords: GUI, wireless, VB, 8051, monitoring and control 
 
1. Introduction 
    The microprocessor 8051 has been still widely applied in 
industry since its announcement in 1980 [1-13]. That is why 
many microprocessor-related courses still open in electrical 
fields in Universities around the world. With increasing 
demand of industrial e-platform facilities and friendly 
operation, it should be considered to be upgraded to a graphical 
interface and remote communication capability. In view of 
graphical programming, VB has been one of the most popular 
software packages in graphic user interface (GUI) design under 
Windows environment. That is why there are a large number 
VB applications can be found in a variety of areas [14-22].  
    This study describes how to set up a visional 
microprocessor-based platform using graphical interface with a 
camera via Internet. The proposed system can perform on line 
real-time monitoring and control function. The PC and 8051 
can communicate with each other via RS232 radio modems up 
to more than 150M distance wirelessly. In the case study for 
pet feeding care, the graphical interface is designed to provide 
commands to control the Pet House and also to display 
real-time information from the Pet House on line. Accordingly, 
the microprocessor can not only carry on its own task but also 
allow remote PC to monitor or control its programming process. 
The conventional microprocessor can be thus delivered into 
many e-platform applications by the supplementary functions. 
    This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 gives a profile 
of the proposed system hardware structure. Section 3 describes 
the system software, including GUI, server and client 
programming, and 8051 programming. Particularly, the 
communication among the server, client and 8051 is 
demonstrated and discussed for details. In Section 4, the 
experimental results are presented to confirm that the proposed 
scheme is capable of remote on-line monitoring and control 
performance. Conclusions and recommendations are given in 
Section 5.  
 
2. Profile of the system structure  
    The structure of the proposed on-line monitoring and control 
system is shown in Fig. 1, and the monitored and controlled 
object, i.e., Pet House, is shown in Fig. 2. The A/D converter 
and 8255 (programmable Peripheral Interface) is to convert 
analog signal (amount of feed and drinking water) into an 8-bit 
digital signal that is input to the microprocessor (8051). Based 
on the RS232 radio modem, the communication distance 
between the nearby PC (server) and Pet House can be up to 150 
M using 1Mbps transmission rate, and the distance can be 
further extended to 280M using 250Kbps. The remote PC 
(client) can connect with the nearby PC (server) via Internet 
using TCP/IP. Therefore, the remaining amount of feed and 
water in the Pet House can be transmitted to the nearby PC 
(server) and remote PC (client) for instant display. 
Additionally, the control signals such as the feeding amount or 
light control from the server or client can be sent to the 
microprocessor (8051).  
 
 
Fig. 1 Structure of the proposed system hardware 
 
 
Fig. 2 Sketch of Pet House 
 
    Fig. 3 depicts the profile of I/O communication interface for 
details among the client, server, 8051, 8255 and Pet House. 
The control signals including connection request, manual 
feeding, automation control, feeding amount, and light control 
from the client or server can be received by 8051 to operate the 
Pet House. Moreover, the monitoring signals from 8051 like 
drinking water level, feed level, and feed status in the bowl can 
be transmitted to the server and client for real-time display. Fig. 
  
Fig. 7 Flowchart of server programming 
 
(a) Check if there is a connection request with 8051. If yes, go 
to next step. Otherwise, repeat the same procedure.  
(b) Check if last setting exists in Monitoring and Control 
Panel. If yes, go to Step (c). Otherwise, load previous 
setting file.   
(c) Set COM1 as the serial communication via RS232, and 
determine the transmission rate, i.e., Baud rate per second 
(Bps), as 9600 that can match the 8051 receiving rate. 
(d) In this step, three operation branches are working 
independently as follows. 
Branch 1: Manual mode 
i. Check if there is a manual request from the client. If yes, 
go to Step (iii). Otherwise, go to next step. 
ii. Check if the manual mode is operated. If yes, go to next 
step. Otherwise, go back to Step (i) 
iii. Send the manual command to 8051. 
iv. Check if the feedback is received from 8051. If yes, go to 
next step. Otherwise, go back to Step (iii).  
v. Check if the client is connected. If yes, the feedback from 
8051 will be transmitted to the client. Otherwise, go back 
to Step (i). 
Branch 2: Automation mode 
i. Check if Automation mode is selected. If yes, go to next 
step. Otherwise, repeat the same procedure.  
ii. Run the automation operation that is to send the control 
signals to 8051 once the feeding time schedule is up.  
iii. The automation operation is carried on until it is shut down. 
 
3.2.2 Client programming 
    The main procedure in the client programming is briefly 
described as follows, and its flowchart is shown in Fig. 8. 
 
 
Fig. 8 Flowchart of client programming 
 
(a) Set IP address of the server for Internet connection, 
including the channel port.  
(b) Check if the connection with the server is requested. If yes, 
go to next step. Otherwise, continue the same procedure.   
(c) Check if the connection is successful. If yes, go to next 
step. Otherwise, go back to Step (b). 
(d) Receive data from the server via Winsocks.  
(e) In this step, three operation branches are working 
independently as follows. 
 
Branch 1: Manual mode 
i. Check if there is a manual request. If yes, go to next step. 
Otherwise, repeat the same procedure. 
ii. Send the manual command to the server. 
iii. Go back to Step (i). 
Branch 2: Automation mode 
  
Fig. 10 Communication method between the server and client 
 
4. Experimental results 
In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed 
approach, a variety of real-time monitoring and control 
operations have been fully illustrated, including system 
connection, setting of automatic control, display of real-time 
operation, etc.  
(a) Connect sever with 8051 
The first step to implement the proposed system is to 
connect server with 8051 via RS232. Once the “Start 
Listening” button, shown in Fig. 6, is pressed, the connection 
will be operated immediately whenever the 8051 is standby. 
Fig. 11 indicates that the system is now working under 
automatic mode after connection, and every indicator status 
receiving from 8051 is displayed on line. Note that “Sign up” 
can set the account and password for the user from the client. 
On the other hand, “Login” allows the user to access both 
server and client, including the password change. 
 
 
Fig. 11 Startup of system connection 
 
(b) Set automatic control panel 
The Automatic Control Panel, shown in Fig. 12, is to present 
more flexible and friendly human-operation interface. 
Therefore, the feeding time schedule and amount can be 
modified, providing functions such as Add, Delete, Clear All 
and Exit. When the modification is done, the setting will be 
saved in the pre-defined route automatically. 
 
 
Fig. 12 Setting of Automatic Control Panel 
 
(c) Save and load setting  
In Fig. 13, “Save” button pressed for new setting reveals that 
the setting for new feeding time schedule and amount can be 
saved in the preferred route in order to satisfy different feeding 
requirements. The previous setting file can be also re-loaded by 
pressing “Load” setting.  
 
 
Fig. 13 Save new setting 
 
(d) Connect client with server 
The real-time operation of the proposed system in the client 
after connection is shown in Fig. 14, similar to the server panel 
in Fig. 11. As can be seen, the monitoring and control panel has 
provided current status of Pet House, giving information about 
feeding amount and time schedule, remaining drinking water 
and feed amount. Moreover, the light in the Pet House can be 
controlled by the panel. The system can also check if there is 
still some feed available in the feed bowl. 
 
 【附件】 
可供推廣之研發成果資料 
作品名稱 寵物餵食監控系統 
技術/創作名稱 寵物餵食監控系統 
技術人/創作人 林熊徵  
 技術特點 
1. 本技術可以偵測與顯示實際的剩餘量，讓飼主更容易掌握食物
與飲水的實際狀態。 
2. 本技術之即時影像整合網路監控畫面之中，可直接進行開啟與
關閉的動作，而達到即時寵物動態影像監視的功能。 
3. 本技術係使用無線RS232模組與單晶片控制器可達到遠距離無
線通訊的能力。 
4. 本技術可由飼主根據寵物狀態自行設定或調整多次餵食時間
與餵食量的多寡，系統重新啟動後，前一個使用的設定將會自
動重新載入，同時亦可載入另外的設定值，以適合家中不同寵
物或不同時期的需求。 
5. 寵物餵食時程與進食量可透過遠端或近端電腦隨時設定，具有
讀取、修改、刪除與儲存的功能。 
6. 遠端電腦與近端電腦設定同步更新，無論遠端電腦或是近端電
腦所設定或儲存的資料均直接存於近端電腦硬碟中，因此，與
利用哪一部遠端電腦操作無關。 
7. 遠端(客戶端)與近端(伺服端)電腦通訊不預期中斷時，具有自動
連線的功能，目前之技術並無此功能。 
8. 遠端電腦可進行影像監視器方位的即時調整。 
9. 具有防火牆的設計，僅允許授權的 IP 進入本系統操作。 
10. 本技術是一個整合型之監控畫面，所有監視與控制(含即時影
像)的功能已融入於同一個畫面當中。 
 
推廣及運用的價值 
     寵物餵食監控系統研發之目的，乃是因為飼養寵物之族群常
是小家庭或單身者，因為日常工作繁忙或因故外出，寵物在
家中常無人照料，導致飲食、飲水時間及份量不正常，甚至
影響寵物健康，飼主更可能因寵物在家之狀況無從得知而感
到不安。有鑑於此，進而研發出一套新穎且功能齊全之互動
系統，此系統可透過遠端連線操控，隨時且確實地掌握寵物
食物、飲水供給及照明等各項情況，並透過系統介面直接設
定或隨時調整進食時程、食量、光線等，同時透過可調式監
視畫面隨時了解寵物動態，讓寵物在飼主不在時同樣能受到
妥善的照料。 
    此系統可以讓寵物即使於飼主不在的情況下，也能隨時獲
得妥善照料，不但對寵物健康及身體狀況有益，對飼主而言
也透過監控互動系統了解寵物的狀況，不需因無暇或無法親
自餵食照顧而擔心家中寵物。  
本技術之「寵物餵食監控系統」經查目前國內外雖有類似產品，但
功能仍有許多改進之空間，基於寵物市場快速發展的需求，發展此
一系統的商業價值是相當樂觀的，預期可以創造出可觀的產值。 
 
 
99年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林熊徵 計畫編號：99-2622-E-167-017-CC3 
計畫名稱：遠端監控自動化寵物餵食與清理系統 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被
接受或已
發表）
預期總達
成數(含實
際已達成
數) 
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位
備註（質化說明：如數個計
畫共同成果、成果列為該期
刊之封面故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報
告 1 1 100% 
遠端監控自動化寵物餵食與清
理系統 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇
 
國
內 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
件數 1 1 100% 件
寵物餵食監控系統研發之目
的，乃是因為飼養寵物之族群常
是小家庭或單身者，因為日常工
作繁忙或因故外出，寵物在家中
常無人照料，導致飲食、飲水時
間及份量不正常，甚至影響寵物
健康，飼主更可能因寵物在家之
狀況無從得知而感到不安。有鑑
於此，進而研發出一套新穎且功
能齊全之互動系統，此系統可透
過遠端連線操控，隨時且確實地
掌握寵物食物、飲水供給及照明
等各項情況，並透過系統介面直
接設定或隨時調整進食時程、食
量、光線等，同時透過可調式監
視畫面隨時了解寵物動態，讓寵
物在飼主不在時同樣能受到妥
善的照料。 
 
此系統可以讓寵物即使於飼主
不在的情況下，也能隨時獲得妥
善照料，不但對寵物健康及身體
狀況有益，對飼主而言也透過監
控互動系統了解寵物的狀況，不
需因無暇或無法親自餵食照顧
而擔心家中寵物。 
 
技術移轉 
權利金 50 50 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100% 賴信有、白國轟、賴昱辰 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  國
外 
論文著作 
研究報告/技術報
告 0 0 100% 
篇
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達
之成果如辦理學術
活動、獲得獎項、
重要國際合作、研
究成果國際影響力
及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益
事項等，請以文字
敘述填列。) 
寵物餵食監控系統研發之目的，乃是因為飼養寵物之族群常是小家庭或單身者，因
為日常工作繁忙或因故外出，寵物在家中常無人照料，導致飲食、飲水時間及份量
不正常，甚至影響寵物健康，飼主更可能因寵物在家之狀況無從得知而感到不安。
有鑑於此，進而研發出一套新穎且功能齊全之互動系統，此系統可透過遠端連線操
控，隨時且確實地掌握寵物食物、飲水供給及照明等各項情況，並透過系統介面直
接設定或隨時調整進食時程、食量、光線等，同時透過可調式監視畫面隨時了解寵
物動態，讓寵物在飼主不在時同樣能受到妥善的照料。 
 
此系統可以讓寵物即使於飼主不在的情況下，也能隨時獲得妥善照料，不但對寵物
健康及身體狀況有益，對飼主而言也透過監控互動系統了解寵物的狀況，不需因無
暇或無法親自餵食照顧而擔心家中寵物。 
 
本技術之「寵物餵食監控系統」經查目前國內外雖有類似產品，但功能仍有許多改
進之空間，基於寵物市場快速發展的需求，發展此一系統的商業價值是相當樂觀
的，因此，預期可以創造出可觀的產值。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
                                                                
本產學合作計畫研發成果及績效達成情形自評表  
成果項目 本產學合作計畫預估研究成果及績效指標（作為本計畫後續管考之參據） 計畫達成情形 
技術移轉 預計技轉授權 1 項 完成技轉授權 1 項 
國內 預估 1 件 提出申請 2 件，獲得 0 件 
專利 
國外 預估 0 件 提出申請 0 件，獲得 0 件 
博士 0人，畢業任職於業界0人 博士 0人，畢業任職於業界0人 
碩士 3人，畢業任職於業界3人 碩士 3人，畢業任職於業界3人 人才培育 
其他 4人，畢業任職於業界4人 其他 4人，畢業任職於業界4人 
期刊論文 0 件 發表期刊論文 0 件 
研討會論文 0 件 發表研討會論文 0 件 
SCI論文 0 件 發表SCI論文 0 件 
專書 0 件 完成專書 0 件 
國內 
技術報告 1 件 完成技術報告 1 件 
期刊論文 0 件 發表期刊論文 0 件 
學術論文 0 件 發表學術論文 0 件 
研討會論文 2 件 發表研討會論文 2 件 
SCI/SSCI論文 0 件 發表SCI/SSCI論文 0 件 
專書 0 件 完成專書 0 件 
論文著作 
國外 
技術報告 0 件 完成技術報告 0 件 
其他協助產業發展
之具體績效 新公司或衍生公司 0 家 設立新公司或衍生公司(名稱)： 
計畫產出成果簡
述：請以文字敘述
計畫非量化產出之
技術應用具體效
益。（限 600字以
內） 
遠端監控自動化寵物餵食清理系統研發之目的，在於設計ㄧ套新穎的寵物餵食及清理
自動化裝置，此系統不但可以有效減輕飼主的工作負荷，也能讓寵物籠子隨時保持整
潔乾淨的狀態，以符合現代居家生活的品質要求。本系統整合一餵食裝置及一清理裝
置而達成自動化的操作目標，其中清理裝置係利用馬達帶動螺桿並俾可達到方便清理
寵物之排泄物，並集中於一收集桶與寵物隔離進而兼具衛生之效果 
系統主架構為遠端電腦、近端電腦與電路控制系統之連線，透過 TPC/IP通訊協定，
遠端電腦可與近端電腦進行網路連線，而電路控制系統主要之控制核心將以單晶片
8051為主軸，因此，利用 RS232串列埠近端電腦可與電路控制系統之單晶片 8051進
行通訊功能，以達成遠端監控的目的。硬體架構則由電路控制系統連結餵食系統、清
理系統、偵測系統以及警示系統。 
