中文摘要  
孤立波通過尾端具坡度潛沒鈍形體時，由於接近固體邊界的速度梯度產生急遽的
變化，流場中產生流體分離的現象並產生渦流脫離(vortex shedding)效應。本文針對尾
端具三種不同坡度之潛堤，以顆粒軌跡可視化法與 PIV 量測系統對於此渦流脫離運動
過程，進行並進行渦流流場之定性觀察與定量分析。定性分析方面，有極小的渦流結
構產生於斜坡的頂端，與矩形潛堤尾端為垂直壁之情形相當不同。主渦渦 Av的大小隨
著斜坡坡度的減小而縮小。在定量分析方面，主渦環流量強度隨著坡度減小而減小。
另外，主渦所造成之向上射流(vertical jet)在坡度為 70度與 80度時皆相當明顯，但於坡
度 63度時之射流速度則有傾斜的現象。 
 
ABSTRACT 
The generation and evolution of shedding vortices induced by a solitary wave 
propagating over a submerged obstacle with sloping end was investigated experimentally. 
The angles of the end slope are 63, 70 and 80 degree. The vortex shedding process was 
observed qualitatively using particle tracking photography. The velocity fields were 
measured quantitatively using particle image velocimetry (PIV). Base on the results of the 
flow visualization, the tiny vortex structure is found near the top of the slope. This is not 
found in the case of rectangular dike under the same wave condition. On the other hand, the 
size of primary vortex (defined as vortex Av) reduces with the decrease of the angle of the 
slope. Based on the result of circulation strength of vortex Av, the strength also decrease with 
the decrease of the angle of the slope. Finally, the jet like profile can be found in the cases of 
angles equal 70 and 80 degree, but the velocity profiles deform in the case of angle equal 63 
degree.    
 
1.Introduction 
The propagation of water waves over a submerged structure is closely related to coastal 
engineering and environmental problems such as the construction of submerged dike for 
preventing coastal erosion, artificial reef for fishery farming, and natural continental shelf 
near coast line. As waves propagates over the submerged structure, vortices generate in the 
vicinity of the submerged structure due to flow separation. The shedding vortices may cause 
scour hole near the foundation of submerged structure (Zhuang and Lee 1996). However, the 
generation and evolution of vorttex structure have not been understood clearly. 
A submerged rectangular dike is frequently considered as one of the simplified model 
(Mei and Black 1969; Ting and Kim 1994; Tang and Chang 1998; Huang and Dong 1999, 
2001). In the past, the main purpose of most investigations focused on the prediction of wave 
energy transmission and reflection, and the spatial variation of wave surface profile. 
In previous studies, the potential flow assumption was widely adopted, therefore, the 
flow field around the obstacle was considered as irrotational (e.g., Mei and Black 1969). 
However, it is clearly evident that vortex sheds out in the vicinity of the submerged obstacle 
as pointed out by Lin et al. (2005 and 2006). 
Due to the complex phenomena during the wave-structure interaction, it is necessary to 
simplify the geometry of submerged structures. The submerged dike with slope end was used 
in this study. Three different angles of end slope including 63, 70 and 80 degree were choosed. 
The frontal edge of submerged dike is vertical wall. The reason of the setting is to keep the 
same condition for frontal geometry of the model and the wave condition, and to investigate 
the influence of the angle of sloping end. 
 when the wave crest of solitary wave is at x = 0. 
Particle trajectory photography was used for flow visualization techniques to observe the 
vortex structure in the vicinity of the dike. In the flow visualization, power of TiO2 were 
choosed as tracer. The average diameter of the tracer is 1 µm. The refractive rate of it is 2.32 
µm/s. 
For flow visualization technique, a laser beam emitted from a 7 W continuous argon-ion 
laser (Coherent 90 series) was diverges to form a thin light sheet of about 1.5 mm in thickness 
after passing a cylindrical lens. The light sheet entered the wave tank vertically through the 
bottom along the center line of the tank to illuminate fluorescent dyes or the tracing particles. 
The high speed Phantom camera was employed to take images containing and pathlines. 
A PIV system was used to measure the two-dimensional velocity field. The 10 W 
argon-ion laser was also used as the light source for PIV system.  The laser beam was 
diverged by a cylindrical lens to create a light sheet of approximately 1.0 mm in thickness in 
the vertical plane directing upward from the bottom of the flume. Figure 3(a) also shows the 
same setup of the light source for PIV system. Aluminum particles with a mean diameter of 
10 µm and a specific gravity of 2.7 were used as the seeding for PIV system. A high speed 
camera (Phantom V5.1) with a 1024 × 1024 pixel resolution, 10-bit dynamic range, and 1200 
Hz maximum frame rate at full resolution was used to capture the particle-laden images. A 
105-mm focal lens was mounted on the camera.  The camera was operated at 600 frames per 
second throughout the experiments. Clear particle images in the non-aerated region were 
processed to obtain the velocity fields using the commercial software from TSI Inc. 
Interrogation windows of 32×32 pixels with a 50% overlap were used in the processing. 
Simultaneous measurements of surface wave profiles and internal velocity fields were 
carried out using two wave gauges and PIV system. The experiments for each case were 
repeated up to 15 times. The phase average method was used to analysis mean flow for the 
unsteady velocity field. Then the flow pattern can be compared accurately in the same phase 
for different cases. 
3.Result and Discussion 
3.1 Validation of solitary wave 
The target solitary wave selected for this paper has a wave height of H = 1.2 cm in a 
water depth of h = 7.0 cm, which gives H/h = 0.17. Before installing the submerged dike in 
the wave tank, a set of repeatability tests on solitary wave profile using a wave gauge was 
tested. It is found that the generated waves are highly repeatable. The profiles are in good 
agreement with the theory of solitary wave as shown in eq. (1): 
⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡ −= )(
4
3sec),( 3
2 ctx
h
HhHtxη                (1) 
in which η denotes the free surface elevation above the still water level, x and t the 
streamwise direction and time, and c the wave celerity that can be calculated theoretically as 
= +c g( h H ) . 
 
Figure 2.  The comparison of the wave surface profile measured using a wave gauge located 
 (a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
(e)  
(f)  
(g)  
(h)  
 
Figure 3  Images taken using the flow visualization technique (θ = 63。) at 
=hgt  (a) -2, (b) 2, (c) 6, (d) 10, (e) 14, (f) 18, (g) 20, (h) 24. 
  
 
 
Figure 5. Variation of vortex core for vortex Av at different non-dimensional time. ( : angle = 
63, : angle = 70, : angle = 80) 
 
 
t g / h
Γ
 
Figure 6. Variation of circulation strength for vortex Av at different non-dimensional time. ( : 
angle = 63。, : angle = 70。, : angle = 80。) 
 
3.4 Characteristics of jet like flow 
Figs. 7 ~ 9 show the velocity distribution obtained by PIV for case of different 
angles. The velocity profile shows characteristics like a jet in the case of angles 
equal 70 and 80. This result is the same as that for the case of rectangular dike. 
While angle of the slope equals 63, this jet-like flow deformes to an irregular shape. 
It seems to be effected by the solid boubdary of inclined slope. In flow 
visualization, the other flow moving along the slope was found. The flow direction 
of this floe is different from the direction of vertical jet.   
  
Figure 9.  Vertical velocity profile at the lee-side of the submerged dike for different y/h. 
(θ = 80。, =t g h 14) 
strength in the case of angle equals 80 degree is the largest. It decreases with the decrease of 
angle of the slope. 
 
4.Conclusion 
The flow pattern was investigated while a solitary wave propagating over a bottom 
mounted submerged dike using particle image velocimetry (PIV) and particle trajectory 
photography. The results demonstrate the differences of vortex shedding processes between 
different angles of slope. From quantitative results, vortex Av moves farest from the original 
point in the case for angle equals 80 degree at t g / h  = 28, and the horizontal position of 
vortex Av is smallest for the case for angle equals 63 degree. The circulation strength in the 
case of angle equals 80 degree is the largest. It decreases with the decrease of angle of the 
slope. 
 
5.Self evaluation 
The vrtex shedding process induced by a solitary wave propagating over a 
submerged dike with sloping end was investigted. The content of this study matches 
the purpose of the project submitted to National Science Council. This paper is 
worth submitting to the acdamic journal after the revise. 
 
 
References 
1. Madsen, O. S. and Mei C. C. (1969) “The transformation of solitary wave over an uneven 
bottom,” J. Fluid Mech., Vol. 39, pp. 781-791. 
2. Chang, K.A., Hsu, T.J., Liu, P.L.F. (2001) “Vortex generation and evolution in water 
參加「第 17屆海域力學與極地工程國際研討會」報告書 
林  呈 
國立中興大學土木工程學系教授 
一、 參加會議經過 
筆者承蒙國科會之經費補助，於民國九十六年六月二十七日晚上九時二十
分搭乘長榮航空公司班機，經英國倫敦轉機、赴葡萄牙的里斯本出席「第 17屆
海域力學與極地工程國際研討會（The 17th  International Conference on Offshore 
(Ocean） and Polar Engineering，簡稱ISOPE-2007）」。班機抵英國倫敦希斯洛國
際機場時為當地六月二十七日晚上七時二十分。其後，96.06.29再搭乘葡萄牙航
空公司之倫敦→里斯本的國際線班機飛抵葡萄牙機場，再搭乘計程車至下榻的
Florida Lisboa Hotel時，約當日晚上十一時十分。趁此次與會之機緣，筆者於開
會前於 96.06.30首先至位於葡萄牙北部所在之波多(Proto)考察河岸保護工程與
親水性設施、並至葡萄牙最具盛名之Coimbra大學參訪。 
此次會議會期是由七月一日下午六時起至七月六日下午，參與此會議之人
員分別來自我國、日本、韓國、中國大陸、香港、泰國、新加坡、美國、加拿
大、英國、法國、德國、荷蘭、挪威、葡萄牙、丹麥、瑞典、澳洲、義大利、
俄羅斯、北利時、伊朗、…等數十餘國，共計約伍佰人，因此就與會國數及人
數，已然為一型之國際會議。國內參與此次盛會的單位，包括本校（中興大學）、
海洋大學、成功大學，共計二十餘位具海工、大地專長之學者與會。 
此次大會係選擇在里斯本的 Corinthia Lisboa Hotel舉行，主辦單位並儘量安
排與會者住宿於該旅館內或步行距離會場僅數分鐘之遙的臨近旅館內，除可省
去交通車時間掌握不易的問題外，亦可就近搭車欣賞里斯本之古典城區、港區
風光及迦太河道港灣設施。在市區，無論就各種土木工程設施及道路景觀之規
劃、建築物之配置、…，許多大事情至小事物的仔細觀察，均可發現在高度人
 1
致時間略有拉長，惟也達到學術成果的展現與經驗的交流。 
由於大會安排每位論文發表人儘量參加當日之早餐會，並由該會程之主席
負責將其他發表人介紹予人認識，然後在共進精緻早餐的時程中，讓每位發表
人提供意見或彼此協調，進而期盼在會議進行中能有彼此前後呼應、營造較為
整體感的發表環境。經由大會這樣的安排，筆者認為在發表論文的心理壓力已
消解泰半。此外，主席在議程時間上的安排可達到較佳的境界（例如，每一議
場中原排定五位演講人，而實到四位時，則可先安排將缺席者的報告時間均勻
分配至其他報告人上，可讓發表人有更充裕的時間來報告內容）。 
筆者對於大會主題之海洋工程與水動力學學議程較有興趣，因此在會議中
儘量參與與此有關的論文聽講，以吸收新知並期能觸發研究靈感，其中對於新
技術的研發與利用新理論分析流場特性等主題尤感興趣，相信此行所見所聞對
於個人未來的研究視野相當有助益的。 
大會後，筆者搭機回國前，再返抵英國轉機，利用暑期順道參訪英國愛丁
堡大學、牛津大學與劍橋大學、泰晤士河沿岸之親水設施（如緩坡堤、步道式
河堤），此次之所見所聞，除了對於專業學術上有實質幫助外，對於個人視野之
開展也啟了很大的作用，所拍攝攜回的錄影帶作為教材，也是有益於學生之學
習廣度及見聞。最後感謝國科會的經費補助，使得筆者得以參與此次盛會，謝
謝！ 
二、 建議事項 
1. 大會要求每場之發表人與會場主席人出席早餐會，利用會中來溝通協
調、認識、確實可營造會程的整體氣氛，值得推介。 
2. 謹請寬列預算鼓勵研究人員積極參與國際會議，對於我國在外交上處處
受中共之牽制干擾，利用學術會議來推行國民外交應是易行之路。 
 
 3
