 2
前言 
The term “dendrimer” was originally named by Tomalia et al. [Tomalia et al, 1985] to 
describe the branched polyamidoamines (PAMAM) in which all bonds converge to a single point, 
each repeated unit contains a branch junction, and a large number of functional groups are present 
at the chain ends. Dendrimers are synthesized through a stepwise repetitive polymerization 
sequence. The size, molecule weight and generation of the macromolecules are determined by the 
times of reactions. The cytotoxicity of dendrimers is dose and generation dependent [Roberts et 
al, 1996]. Higher dose or more generation will be more toxic to cells, and below G = 5 PAMAM 
dendrimers will cause, if any, little deleterious effects to cells.  
Starburst PAMAM dendrimers have a unique surface of primary amino groups and could be 
used to modify or conjugate some special ligands for other purposes or applications. Therefore, 
PAMAM dendrimers have been applied in the fields of drug delivery, gene therapy, tumor 
targeting and imaging study in recent years. For example, by conjugating with ligands such as 
epidermal growth factor or folic acid, dendrimers have been used as specific-targeting drug 
delivery carriers [Yang et al, 2002 and Quintana et al, 2002]. The dendrimer/DNA complex will 
form on the basis of electrostatic interactions between the protonated amino groups of the 
PAMAM dendrimer (positively charged) and negatively charged phosphate groups of the nucleic 
acids. Previous studies have shown the potential for efficient transfection of a broad range of 
eukaryotic cells by using dendrimers as a gene-carrying vector [Wu et al, 1994, 
Kukowska-Latallo et al, 1996 and Bielinska et al, 1999]. 
研究目的 
The aim of this study is to unravel the possible role of PAMAM dendrimers on the endocytotic 
pathway, elucidating the regulatory mechanisms such as modulation of pH, and as a consequence, 
leading to better strategies for efficient intracellular delivery or organelle-targeting. 
文獻探討 
The uptake of materials by cells is through a mechanism called endocytosis, which could be 
roughly divided into two major categories: 1.) receptor-mediated endocytosis and 2.) fluid-phase 
endocytosis. In general, substrates that enter the cells by endocytosis are constitutively directed to 
further stages along the endolysosomal pathway. Figure 1 is a schematic model that delineates the 
passage of endocytosed materials in the endo-lysosomal pathway [Luzio et al, 2000]. In this 
model, materials are first transferred to the early endosome, which is the major sorting station 
where many ligands dissociate from their cognate receptors in the acid luminal pH and many 
receptors recycle to the plasma membrane. An intermediate compartment, the endosome carrier 
vesicle (ECV) or multivesicular bodies (MVBs), are responsible for transferring materials from 
early to late endosomes [Gruenberg et al, 1989]. Late endosomes and lysosomes are the major 
compartments of material degradation and are apparently in dynamic equilibrium because of their 
approximately equal lysosome-associated membrane proteins (LAMPs) concentrations.  
Although PAMAM dendrimers have been implemented in various biological applications, 
the precise “fate” of these dendrimers inside the cells has not been well studied. In our previous 
studies, we used fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) – conjugated G = 4 PAMAM dendrimers 
(G4-FITC) to elucidate its intracellular trafficking and subcellular distribution. Using 
 4
trypsinized, and transferred to centrifuge tubes. The cells were fixed in 10 % formalin for 15 min 
on ice, washed and resuspended with FACSFlowTM PBS (Becton-Dickinson, USA), and then 
analyzed by using the FacsCalibur (Becton-Dickinson, USA). 
Investigating the effects of pH-change on the fluorescence intensity of FITC, G4-FITC, and 
Dextran-FITC in the cell-free system 
 FITC, G4-FITC, and Dextran-FITC were respectively dissolved in PBS solution with 
different pH value (2-8). The fluorescence emission spectra was subsequently recorded by a 
fluorescence spectrometer (Luminescence Spectrometer, Perkin Elmer , UK) with excitation at 
488 nm. 
Establishing the pH standard curve of Dextran-FITC and G4-FITC 
 Cells were pulsed-labeled with G4-FITC for 1 hr or Dextran-FITC for 30 min, and then 
chased for 12 hr or 15 min, respectively. The cells were pelleted, divided into eight aliquots, and 
then resuspended in standard pH buffers. Standard pH buffers were prepared by mixing 50 mM 
HEPES with 50 mM morpholineethanesulfonic acid MES (both containing 50 mM NaCl, 30 mM 
ammonium acetate, and 40 mM sodium azide) and then titrated to the desired pH value ((7.63, 
7.07, 6.47, 6.01, 5.42, 4.85, 4.28, and 3.69, respectively) [Bayer et al, 1998]. The samples were 
kept on ice for 5 min for ATP depletion and for equilibration of intravesicular pH. Subsequently, 
the proposed lysosomal pH was indirectly calculated using FacsCalibur (Becton-Dickinson, USA) 
with excitation at 488 nm and emission at FL1 (530±15nm) and FL2 (585±21).  
Immunofluorescence Microscopy 
 Cells plated on glass coverslips in 35 mm dishes were pulsed-labeled with 13.5 ug/ml 
G4-FITC for 1 hr and then chased in individual time periods of 0, 1, 3, and 6 hr. Subsequently, 
cells were washed and then fixed with 10% formalin for 10 min at room temperature. After 
several washes, the cells were permeabilized with 0.2% triton TX-100 PBS for 10 min, washed 
three times with PBS, and then blocked with blocking solution (5% skimmed milk and 0.1 % 
triton TX-100 in PBS) for 30 min at room temperature. The cells were then incubated with 
monoclonal anti-LAMP-1 antibody (1:10) (Developmental Study Hybridoma Bank, Iowa 
University) for 2 hr at 37℃ in the moisture chamber. After the incubation, the cells were washed 
extensively with PBS and then incubated for 1hr with Texas-Red-conjugated goat anti-mouse sera 
(1:50) (Vector Laboratories, USA). After PBS washing, cells were mounted and observed under a 
fluorescence confocal microscope (Leica TCS SP2 Spectral Confocal System, Germany). 
結果與討論（含結論與建議） 
The fluorescence intensity of G4-FITC increased after accumulation in the lysosomes 
 Fig. 1 shows the trafficking of endocytosed G4-FITC and Dextran-FITC in Ca9-22 cells. The 
fluorescence intensity of G4-FITC gradually increased with time and could be clearly observed 
even at 12 hrs after pulse-labeling. At this time point, the endocytosed G4-FITC has accumulated 
in the lysosomes (Fig. 1A). In contrast, the endocytosed Dextran-FITC, even the concentration 
was considerably higher than that of G4-FITC, could not be found after chasing for 30 min (Fig. 
1B and C). 
 To quantify the uptake of G4-FITC by Ca9-22 cells, the fluorescence intensity of cellular 
G4-FITC was analyzed by flow cytometry. As shown in fig. 2, the fluorescence intensities 
 6
Red DND-99 may also be perturbed by the dendrimers. Thus we used immunofluorescence 
staining for LAMP-1 to investigate the trafficking of G4-FITC after uptake by the cells. 
Surprisingly, co-localization (yellow spots) of G4-FITC and LAMP-1 could be observed after 
pulsed 1hr (Fig. 6). This result clearly indicated that G4-FITC had already entered the late 
endosome/lysosome at that time. Thus our previous observation that the entry of G4-FITC into 
the lysosomes was delayed needed to be revamped. We showed, in this study, that the 
endo-lysosomal pH was buffered by the PAMAM dendrimers, which may account for the 
perturbed staining of the lysosomes by the LysoTracker® Red DND-99. 
A  G4-FITC -- confocal microscopy 
   
chase  0h      3h      6h 
  
9h      12h 
B  Dextran-FITC -- confocal microscopy 
   
chase  0min      15min      30min 
C  Dextran-FITC -- fluorescence microscopy 
   
chase  0min      15min      30min 
 
Fig. 1. The Uptake of G4-FITC and Dextran-FITC by Ca9-22 cells. 
 8
 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
chased-time (min.)
ly
so
so
m
al
 p
H
 v
al
ue
 
Fig. 4. Measuring the endo-lysosomal pH value by using Dextran-FITC. 
Ca9-22 lysosomal pH value in time
sequence
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
chased-time (hr.)
ly
so
so
m
al
 p
H 
va
lu
e
 
Fig. 5. Measuring the endo-lysosomal pH by using G4-FITC.  
   
chase     0h 1h 
   
chase     3h 6h 
Fig. 6. Reiterating the entry of G4-FITC into late endosomes/lysosomes by using LAMP-1 
immunofluorescence staining.  
 
 
