2Table of content of the report:
Final report…………………………………………………………........... ……..pages 3-17
Appendix 1: Statistics………………………………………………….…. …….pages 18-20
Appendix 2. Joint paper on segmental alignment in the aggregate domains
of PFO in Macromolecules 2007…………………………….. ………….7 pages
Appendix 3. Joint Extended Abstracts for the Taiwan-Russia Symposium
Hsinchu-2007…………………………………………………. ………….5 pages
Appendix 4. Joint Abstract of the World Polymer Congress “Macro 2008” ………….2 pages
Appendix 5. Joint manuscript on “Conformational Structure and 
Aggregation Behavior of Conjugated Polymer Solutions”,
submitted to Macromolecules………………………………… ………..49 pages
Appendix 6. Joint manuscript on “Computer Simulations of Hairy Rod 
Conjugated Polymer in Solution State”………………………. ………..39 pages
Appendix 7. Joint manuscript on the atomistic force field development
and molecular dynamics simulations of poly-(phenylene
vinylene) derivatives…………………………………………. ………..10 pages
Appendix 8. Joint Manuscript on computer simulations of comb-coil
copolymers……………………………………………………. ………9 pages
Appendix 9. Short report on experimental results obtained during the visit
of two PhD students from NTHU to MSU in July 2007……… ………..8 pages
4Preface
Comb-like polymers with a high density of side chains, the "molecular bottle-brushes" or
"cylindrical comb copolymer brushes", display many specific properties such as formation of
highly ordered supercrystal microstructures both in solution and in bulk, liquid-crystalline
ordering, specific ordering on substrates (e.g., spiralling [1]), etc. There is a possibility to tailor the
behaviour of these systems in various ways: e.g., flexible side chains vs. rigid side chains, flexible
backbone vs. rigid backbone ("hairy rods"), covalently bonded side chains vs. physically bonded
(hydrogen bonding, ionic bonding) side chains, side chains with strongly polar end groups, etc.
These materials could find various applications not only in traditional fields but in particular in
more modern applications such as drug delivery systems, artificial muscles, molecular
microelectronics, etc. For instance, a class of semiflexible comb-like polymer called “hairy-rod
conjugated polymer”, which consists of conjugated backbone attached with short flexible side
chains, have been used as the active materials for the fabrication of polymer light emitting diodes
[2].
The goal of this project is to provide a comprehensive study, combining experimental works
and theoretical and computer simulation studies, on the self-organization behavior at various
length scales of comb-like polymer systems. The systems of particular interest are (1) the
supramolecular comb-coil block copolymers formed by physically associating amphiphilic
surfactant with the one block in the linear block copolymer and (2) the semiflexible hairy-rod
conjugated polymers used for polymer light emitting diodes. For the first system we center on the
study of hierarchical structure formation in the bulk. In contrast to the previous studies which
focused predominantly on the stoichiometric binding between the surfactant and the block chain,
the systems in which the comb-like blocks have a wide range of surfactant binding fraction are
being studied here. For the second system effort is being dedicated to resolving the mechanism
and driving force of the anomalous aggregation behaviour of the polymer in the solution state.
Abundant spectroscopic studies have pointed out that hairy-rod conjugated polymers exhibit
inter-chain aggregation in the solution state even at large dilution [3]; however, the origin of this
event and the structure of the resultant aggregates remain largely unresolved. It should be stressed
that unveiling the aggregate structure and the mechanism of aggregation is of paramount
importance not only for understanding the supramolecular assembly behavior of hairy rod
polymers but also for the fine tuning of their photophysical properties for electro-optical
applications since the presence of aggregates even in trace amount can have profound impact on
the photophysics of these materials [4].
The studies undertaken in this project include experimental efforts of Prof. Hsin-Lung
Chen’s group at the National Tsing Hua University and the development of new theoretical
methods and the massive multiscale computer simulations of Prof. Viktor A. Ivanov’s group at
Moscow State University. The hierarchical structures of systems under study have been revealed
experimentally by SAXS and TEM. The theoretical and computer simulation works (quantum
chemical calculations, atomistic molecular dynamics simulations, coarse-grained Monte Carlo and
molecular dynamics simulations, self-consistent field theory) have greatly facilitated our
understanding on these systems and helped to explain experimental data and solve some crucial
problems. The experience of Taiwan (experiment) and Russian (theory and computer simulation)
groups is completely complementary, and therefore such a collaboration is really necessary. Such
an interdisciplinary approach has enabled us so far to shed light on the mechanisms of
self-organisation in existing systems. We believe that these mechanisms can be understood in
detail in the nearest future, and this will allow to suggest new ways to produce modern materials
with nanoscale heterogeneity, partial controllable structural order, and efficient functional
properties for nanotechnological applications. The young scientists involved in this project are
the graduate students from the two groups. The students in Prof. Chen’s group have carried out all
the experimental works, while those in Prof. Ivanov’s group have conducted the computer
simulation works. Most of the students participating in this project have already visited the
60.01 0.1
10-4
10-3
10-2
10-1
I(
q
)/

2
(c
m
3 )
x
10
20
q (Å-1)
0.1 wt%
0.5 wt%
1.0 wt%
(hollow) CHCl
3
(solid) toluene
consistently exhibit a stronger intensity in the low-q region at a given concentration, which signals
that DP10-PPV chains in toluene do undergo inter-chain aggregation to a significant extent;
further asserting that the observed SANS profiles are overwhelmed by form factor of the
aggregates. Thus the SANS profiles are dominated by the internal structure of the μm sized
aggregates. In the case of the 0.1 wt% solution, the observed power law of I(q) ~ q-1.3 indicates
that over the length scale covered by the q region, the internal structure of the aggregates is
characterized by a mass fractal dimension of 1.3, which may correspond to a highly defective
network generated by the segmental association of the polymer chains. The sites of the segmental
association act as the junction points for the conjugated chains.
When the concentration is increased to 0.5 wt% and 1.0 wt%, the scattering intensities
display q-2 power law. This suggests that the aggregates of DP10-PPV become more compact (due
to prevalent segmental association) at higher polymer concentrations and may contain disk-like
domains which give rise to the q-2 power-law dependence of the scattering intensities. For a thin
plate the scattering intensity in the asymptotic region is given by:
where T is the thickness of the plate [21]. This equation prescribes that the thickness of the plate
can be determined from the slope of ln[I(q)q2] vs q2 plot, as shown in Figure 2. The thickness of
the disk-like domain thus determined using the intensities of 0.5 and 1.0 wt% solutions is 20 Å.
The diameter of a single DP10-PPV chain obtained from the SANS profiles in chloroform
solutions is 10 Å; therefore, the disk-like domains in the aggregates may be composed of two
layers of DP10-PPV chains flatly lying on the disk surface, as schematically shown in the inset of
Figure 2. It should be noted that similar disk-like domains formed by the segmental aggregation
have also been observed for other conjugated polymers dissolved in relatively poor solvents. In
the case of DP6-PPV, the smaller fractal dimensions (~2.2) coupled with highly compact internal
structure revealed by SANS indicates that the aggregates in toluene tends to collapse into disk-like
objects due to severe segmental association. These results may imply a tendency of the hairy-rod
polymers to aggregate to form disk-like domains in relatively poor solvents due to the general
tendency of the polymers to self-organize into a lamellar structure consisting of alternating
backbone and side chain layers in the bulk state. Formation of the lamellar structure in the bulk
state is driven by the repulsion between the conjugated backbone and the side chains. The
Figure 1. Contrast-normalized SANS
profiles of DP10-PPV dissolved in
different solvents. The scattering
intensities of the toluene solutions are
much higher than the corresponding
chloroform solutions, especially at
higher concentrations, asserting that
aggregation is prevalent in toluene and
that the latter is relatively a poor
solvent for DP10-PPV molecules.
)
12
exp()(
2
)( 2
2
22
2 q
T
T
q
AqI  
8nearly match with that of the 1.0 wt% chloroform solution at room temperature (inset of Figure 3),
where the scattering profile is dominated by the form factor of DP10-PPV chains. After the data
acquisition at 85oC the toluene solution was cooled right back to 25oC to examine the
re-aggregation behavior of DP10-PPV.
The computer simulation results for both DP6-PPV and DP10-PPV systems and comparison
with experimental data can be found in subsections I.5 and I.6 below and in Appendix 6.
I.3. Nanostructure hairy-rod conjugated polymer gels
Conjugated polymers may form physical gels at relatively low concentration through π-π
interactions. Gel is a coherent system exhibiting mechanical properties characteristic of a solid,
and in which both the dispersed component and the medium extend throughout the whole system.
Long-chain polymers maybe chemically crosslinked through covalent bonds in the solvent
medium to produce chemical gels. Physical gels are formed and stabilized in the solvent mostly
through the secondary forces such as hydrogen bonding, van der Waal’s force, hydrophobic
interactions, orπ-πinteractions.
Nanoscale structure of polymer gels can be characterized by SAXS experiments. The
scattering intensities of uncrosslinked systems could be described by a Lorentz function which
gave rise to the asymptotic q-2 power-law of the scattering intensities. The scattering intensities
from the samples of different crosslinking densities could be modeled by a sum of the scattering
intensity from a corresponding polymer solution and that of the excess scattering from gel
structure. Several functional forms of the excess scattering have been proposed, such as another
Lorentz function and a Debye-Bueche function [13].
This type of conjugated polymeric gels is a novel materials for performing highly
photoluminescent inorganic/polymer fibers by the combination of the sol-gel transition and
electrospinning methods. Poly(9,9-dioctylfluorene-2,7-diyl) (PF8), as one of the extensively
studied system of electroluminescent conjugated polymers, is known to display a mesomorphic β
phase or a crystalline αphase in the bulk state [14]. The mesoporphic βphase can be easily
promoted through thermal annealing or solvent vapor treatment [15]. βphase of PF8 was also
found in the solution state through segmental aggregation [16,17]. The convenient way of
revealing the presence ofβphase is through the photophysical studies [18,19]. The UV absorption
peak associated with the βphase is located at 437 nm (2.84 eV) with its vibronic structure
resolvable at very low temperature [18,19]. We have found that PF8/toluene solution forms gel
easily at relatively low PF8 concentration. The nanostructure of the gel and gel-to-sol transition
has been revealed by a combination of SAXS, DSC, POM, and UV-Vis spectroscopy. It has been
shown that the gelation behavior is closely connected to the formation of βphase. The driving
force of the formation ofβphase isπ-πinteraction.
Figure 4 shows the SAXS profiles of 1% and 3% PF8/toluene gels collected at 21oC along
with their model fittings. The scattering intensities of both samples display q-2 power-law followed
by a steeper drop at q > 0.24 Å-1. The asymptotic scattering behavior suggests the presence of disk
domains formed by the aggregation of PF8 segments in the solution. The disk domain structure
was also found in the PF8/MCH solution [16]; however, the thickness of the disk domains found
here appears to be much larger as the intensities experience drops from q-2 power law due to the
contribution from disk thickness at relatively low q (~ 0.04 Å-1). The model fittings using form
factor of randomly oriented disk [20] for the 1% gel yields the thickness of the disk domains of
37.2 Å.
The intensity of 3% gels shows a slight upturn (q < 0.007 Å-1) caused by the attractive
interaction between the disk domains. In this case, we use the combination of Debye-Bueche
equation and disk form factor to model the SAXS profile:
whereD is the correlation length. The fitting using this equation yields the thickness of the disk of
2 2 2
(0)
( ) ( )
(1 )
s
cyl
D
I
I q P q
q
 

10
I.5. Coarse-Grained Simulation of Hairy Rod Polymer Solutions
In a coarse-grained model of DP6-PPV molecule the polymer chain consists of the spherical
beads, each bead representing a group of about 10 atoms of the real molecule. It consists of
semirigid backbone and flexible side chains (cf. Fig. 6). The stiffness of a backbone was
controlled by harmonic angle potential, while the non-bonded excluded volume was described by
Lennard-Jones potential. To model the aggregation behavior of DP6-PPV the so-called pi-atoms
were introduced. Pi-atoms are the backbone atoms which strongly attract each other. Their
attraction is described by Yukawa potential where the energetic parameter is larger than
characteristic thermal energy TkB by a factor of .3020 To model the influence of poor
solvent (toluene) the model of hydrophobic interaction which minimizes accessible surface area
was used. This potential was applied only to side chain units, since toluene is poor for the side
chains and good for the backbone.
Fig. 6. Model of DP6-PPV
To reveal the aggregate structure and its dependence on solvent quality we used stochastic
dynamics simulation. First we have simulated small aggregates, which consist of about 50 chains
in a box which size is larger than characteristic aggregate size; in that case we can neglect the
effect of periodic boundaries and consider that we deal with a single aggregate (Model 1). In
Model 1 backbone consists of 29 beads, including 3 pi-atoms which are uniformly distributed
along the backbone. The number of grafting points equals 15 and the spacer length between two
successive grafting points equals 2. Each side chain consists of 3 beads. Spacer length between
successive pi-atoms is 7.
In our simulations we calculated radial distribution functions and scattering static structure
factors which are important structural characteristics of the solutions. Simulated aggregates are
shown in Fig. 7. It is clearly seen that aggregates of DP6-PPV are more compact in poor toluene
solvent due to severe association of the side chains.
Fig. 7. Simulation snapshot: DP6-PPV aggregate in chloroform (left) and toluene (right)
To determine the aggregate fractal dimension we calculated static structure factors. Results
are shown in Fig. 8 (chloroform) and 9 (toluene). On Fig. 8 structure factor follows S(q) ~ q-0.9
dependence in the high-q region indicating the presence of rod entity under large spatial resolution.
In the low-q region S(q) dependence transforms to S(q) ~ q-2.7 providing information about the
aggregate fractal dimension. The power law of S(q) ~q-2.7 signals that over the length scale
covered by the low-q region the structure of the aggregates is characterized by a mass fractal
dimension of 2.7. On Fig. 9 (toluene) high-q region with -1 (or -0.9) slope vanishes, indicating
that the aggregates become highly compact and the rod-like structure of the chains cannot be
observed under accessible spatial resolution. Low-q region slope again provide information about
12
diagram of the solution can then be determined by locating the critical point, the coexisting curve
(binodal), and the stability curve (spinodal) in the two-phase diagram.
Employing the standard NVT molecular dynamics and PCFF forcefield, we simulated the
solutions of DP6 chains with N = 8 monomeric units. We have found that the chain tends to form a
helix-like conformation.
Next, using the conformations generated in the MD simulations, we analyze the runs to predict
via a MC sampling the solution properties such as the temperature dependence of the Flory-Huggins
parameter and the phase diagrams for the two solutions. We sample the energy of configurations
composed of pairs of the specified molecules and also sample the coordination number by building
different clusters of these molecules. All these calculations are based on MS algorithm mentioned
above (see also [12]).
We found the Flory-Hugginsparameters at 298 K to be equal to 3.73 (for DP6-PPV in
chloroform) and 4.41 (for DP6-PPV in toluene). Therefore, one can say that toluene is poorer
solvent as compared to chloroform, although both solvents are not very good for DP6 polymer. By
substituting the temperature-dependent interaction parameterin the Flory-Huggins expression,
the free energy can be found for all compositions and temperatures. From this, the phase diagram of
the solution can then be determined by locating the critical point, the coexisting curve (binodal), and
the stability curve (spinodal). The shape and form of the free energy isotherms versus composition
determine the critical point, binodal, and spinodal. These results are shown in Fig. 11 for the
solutions of oligomeric chains of DP6-PPV with the length N = 8 in chloroform.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
250
300
350
400
450
500
spinodal
binodalT
em
pe
ra
tu
re
(K
)
Mole fraction (DP6, N=8)
Chloroform
Figure 11. Phase diagram for solutions of DP6-PPV in chloroform (N=8).
More details on the results described in subsections I.5 and I.6 can be found in Appendix 6.
I.7. Conclusions
In the present work we have performed the comparison of experimental results for SANS
scattering in solutions of conjugated polymers of DP6-PPV in chloroform and toluene at different
concentrations and different temperature with computer simulation studies of both atomistic and
coarse-grained models. The following main experimental findings have been confirmed by
computer simulation results:
1) two types of aggregation appear in the system–one is due to the presence of strongly attracting
groups in the backbone, while another is due to aggregation of side chains in bad solvent
(toluene);
2) the scattering increases with increasing concentration of DP6-PPV both in good and bad
solvent;
3) the fractal dimensions of aggregates calculated from the slope of the structure factor agree very
well with experimentally found values.
14
Figure 14 displays the 2-D SAXS patterns of the complex with x = 0.5 after subjected to a
large-scale structure alignment using large amplitude oscillating shear. In the end view [Figure
14(a)] the first-order scattering shows four spots in the four quadrants (rather than six spots as
seen for hexagonal lattice), while the corresponding scattering pattern in the edge view (Figure
14(b)) is characterized by two spots in the meridian associated with the nearest-neighbor
correlation of the cylinders perpendicular to the long axis. The 2-D SAXS pattern hence
provides unambiguous evidence for the formation of tetragonally packed cylinders in the system.
Fig. 14. The 2-D SAXS patterns of the complex with x = 0.5 with large-scale structure alignment ;
(a): end-view pattern; (b): edge-view pattern.
The orientation of smaller-scale lamellae with respect to the PS cylinder axis can also be
deduced from the 2-D SAXS patterns. It can be seen from Figure 14(b) that the 2-D pattern of
the P4VP(DBSA) lamellar structure also exhibits two spots in the meridian. This means that the
lamellar interfaces tend to align parallel to the long axis of the tetragonally packed cylinder (or the
lamellar normal aligns perpendicular to the cylinder axis). This orientation is completely
different from that found in the complexes containing hexagonally packed cylinders, where the
lamellar normal tends to orient parallel to the cylinder axis. Therefore, the unusual tetragonal
packing of PS cylinders might be related to the peculiar orientation of the smaller-scale lamellae.
II.3 Simulations of the Hierarchical Assemblies of Supramolecular Comb-Coil Block
Copolymers by DPD
We used dissipative particle dynamics (DPD) to investigate equilibrium morphologies of
comb-coil copolymers. DPD is a mesoscale simulation technique, which neglects all the chemical
structure of the chain. Polymer chain is presented as a set of beads, connected by springs. Each bead
corresponds to the Kuhn segment of a real chain. Volume interactions are presented by conservative,
dissipative and random forces. Interactions included in DPD are “soft”, that’s why we can simulate 
the large-time behavior of the system. More information about dissipative particle dynamics one can
find in ref. [9,10]. In our model comb-coil copolymer was presented by ten beads of three types: A,
B, and C (Fig.15). A - coil block (red), B - backbone of comb block (green), C - side chains in
comb block (blue).
We explored the equilibrium morphology of such molecules within a wide range of parameters,
which define the interaction between different kinds of beads. In our simulations large-scale
morphology is the same in all cases –hexagonally packed cylinders, formed by A beads. These
cylinders are embedded in a matrix consists of B and C beads. Matrix has heterogeneity on a small
length scale. We observed two different types of small-scale morphology, (Fig. 16 and 17). The first
one occurs, when repulsion between B and C is smaller than between A and B. The second occurs
otherwise.
Fig. 15. Comb-coil copolymer in our model
16
References
1. P.G.Khalatur, D.Shirvanyanz, N.Starovoitova, A.R.Khokhlov. Macromol. Theory Simul. 2000,
9, 141.
2. a) Burroughes, J. H.; Bradly, D. D. C.; Brown, A. R.; Marks, R. N.; Mackay, K. Friend, R. H.;
Burns, P. L.; Holmes, A. B. Nature 1990, 347, 539. (b) Friend, R. H.; Gymer, R. W.; Holmes,
A. B.; Burroughes, J. H.; Marks, R. N.; Taliani, C.; Bradley, D. D. C.; dos Santos, D. A.;
Brédas, J. L.; Löglund, M.; Salaneck, W. R. Nature 1999, 397, 121. (c) Spreitzer, H.; Becker,
H.; Kluge, E.; Kreuder, W.; Schenk, H.; Demandt, R. and Schoo, H. Adv. Mater. 1998, 10,
1340.
3. (a) Nguyen, T. Q.; Doan, V.; Schwartz, B. L. J. Chem. Phys. 1999, 110, 4068. (b) Grell, M;
Bradley, D. D. C.; Ungar, G..; Hill, J.; Whitehead, K. S. Macromolecules 1999, 32, 5810.
(c)Collison, C. J.; Rotherberg, L. J.; Treemaneekarn, V.; Li, Y. Macromolecules 2001, 34,
2346.(d) Hsu, J. H.; Fann, W. S.; Tsao, P. H.; Chuang, K. R.; Chen, S. A. J. Phys. Chem. A
1999, 103, 2375.
4. Blatchford, J. W.; Jessen, S. W.; Lin, L. B.; Gustafson, T. L.; Fu, D. K.; Wang, H. L.; Swager, T.
M.; MacDiarmid, A. G.; Epstein, A. J. Phys. Rev. B 1996, 54, 9180.
5. Li, Y.-C.; Chen, K.-B.; Chen, H.-L.; Hsu, C.-S.; Tsao, C.-S.; Chen, J.-H.; Chen, S.-A.
Langmuir, 2006, 22,11009.
6. Hashimoto, T.; Shibayama, M.; Fujimura, M.; Kawai, H. In Block Copolymer-Science and
Technology, Meier, D. J. Ed.; Harward Academic Publishers: London, 1983.
7. Ruokolainen, J.; Mäkinen, R.; Torkkeli, M.; Mäkelä, T.; Serimaa, R.; ten Brinke, G.; Ikkala, O.
Science 1998, 280, 557.
8. Forster, S.; Timmann, A.; Konrad, M.; Schellbach, C.; Meyer, A.; Funari, S. S.; Mulvaney, P.;
Knott, R. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 1347.
9. P. Espanol and P. B. Waren, “Statistical mechanics of Dissipative Particle Dynamics”, 
Europhys. Lett. 30, 191, (1995)
10.R. D. Groot and P. B. Waren, ”Dissipative particle dynamics: Bridging the gap between
atomistic and mesoscopic simulation”, J. Chem. Phys. 107, 4423, (1997).
11. M. Blanco, J. Comput. Chem. 1991, 12, 237-247.
12. Fan, C. F.; Olafson, B. D.; Blanco, M.; Hsu, S. L. Macromolecules, 1992, 25, 3667.
13. Shibayama, M. Macromol. Chem. Phys. 1998, 199, 1.
14. Chen, S. H.; Su, A. C.; Chen, S. A. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 10067.
15. Grell, M.; Bradley, D. D. C.; Ungar, G.; Hill, J.; Whitehead, K. S. Macromolecules 1999, 32,
5810.
16. Knaapila, M.; Garamus, V. M.; Dias, F. B.; Almásy, L.; Galbrecht, F.; Charas, A.; Morgado, J.;
Burrows, H. D.; Scherf, U.; Monkman, A. P. Macromolecules 2006, 39, 6505.
17. Knaapila, M.; Dias, F. B.; Garamus, V. M.; Almásy, L.; Torkkeli, M.; Leppänen, K.; Galbrecht,
F.; Preis, E.; Burrows, H. D.; Scherf, U.; Monkman, A. P. Macromolecules 2007, 40, 9398.
18. Khan, A. L. T.; Banach, M. J.; Köhler, A. Synthetic Metals 2003, 139, 905.
19. Cadby, A. J.; Lane, P. A.; Mellor, H.; Martin, S. J.; Grell, M.; Giebeler, C.; Badley, D. D. C.
Phys. Rev. B 2000, 62, 15604.
20. Guinier, A; Fournet, G. Small-Angle Scattering of X-Rays, John Wiley and Sons; New York,
1955.
21. Glatter, O.; Kratky O. Small Angle X-ray Scattering. Academic press inc: London, 1982.
18
合作研發成果統計表
Statistic Data of the Joint Research Cooperation
【此部份僅作國科會內部參考，不對外公告】
(This section will only be used for NSC reference and will not be publicly disclosed)
I. Number of staff working on this joint project.
“Staf type”includes principal investigators (PI), collaborating principal investigators (co-PI),
assistant investigators, and postdoctoral research fellows.
Staff Type Taiwan Side Russian Side
PI and co-PI Hsin-Lung Chen Viktor A. Ivanov (PI)
Pavel Khalatur (Co-PI)
Full-time research assistant
Part-time research assistant Chun-Yu Chen
Shao-Ching Liao
Guan-Yi Chen
Chun-Jen Su
Alexander Lukyanov
Leonid Spirin
Vladimir Rudyak
Julia Martemyanova
Ekaterina Obrastzova
Georgij Meshkov
Postdoctoral research fellow
II. Joint publications (by the date of this report submission)
1. Scientific Journals in which Papers have been Published or Accepted for Publication
Title of Paper Name of Journal SCI/EI/SSCI
Impact
Factor
Volume
No. Date
Segmental Alignment in the Aggregate
Domains of Poly(9,9-dioctylfluorene) in
the Semidilute Solution
Macromolecules SCI 4.277 40 08/11/07
2. International or Domestic Conferences or Symposia where Papers were Presented
Title of Paper Name of Event Organizer of theEvent Date
Computer Simulation of Hairy-Rod
Conjugated Polymers
Taiwan-Russia Joint Symposium “Soft 
Materials: Physics, Chemistry and
Applications”, November 12-14,
2007, Hsinchu
NSC, RFBR, ITRI,
MSU, NTHU
12/11/07
Computer Simulation of Solutions
of Hairy-Rod Conjugated Polymers
42nd World Polymer Congress “Macro
2008”, June 29–July 4, 2008, Taipei
IUPAC 01/07/08
Appendix 1: Statistics
20
2. Russian Research Team Visiting Taiwan
Date of Visit Main Tasks and Results Total Members onVisiting Team
No. of Young
Researchers
Involved (aged 40
or lower)
April 30 - May 10,
2006
(10 days)
Intensive discussions on the
experimental and simulation results
obtained for the aggregation of hairy rod
polymers and the hierarchical assembly
of comb-coil block copolymers;
identification of the directions of further
studies
3 2
May 23 - 30, 2007
(7 days)
Discussions of the experimental and
simulation results obtained for the
aggregation of hairy rod polymers and
the hierarchical assembly of comb-coil
block copolymers; identification of the
directions of further studies
3 2
June 25–July 5,
2008
(10 days)
Discussions of the experimental and
simulation results obtained for the
aggregation of hairy rod polymers and
the hierarchical assembly of comb-coil
block copolymers; preparation of joint
publications; participation in World
Polymer Congress Macro 2008
1 0
V. Pattern of Cooperative Research
■ Data collection sharing
■ Research information exchange
■ Establishment and inspection of theoretical model
□ Data induction or deduction
□ Device or product design
□ Others (please specify) ________
A. Direct-image of Conjugated Polymer Chains and Aggregates Revealed by AFM
The chain conformation and aggregated structure of conjugated polymers in solution are
revealed by small-angle neutron and X-ray scattering (SANS/SAXS) [1-3]. However, the scattering
profiles which are in Fourier space do not directly show the information of polymer conformation
and aggregated structure, and the model fittings are hence required to obtain reasonable structure. In
order to obtain direct-image of conjugated polymer chains and aggregates, atomic force microscopy
(AFM) is used to visualize the surface morphologies through contact-mode and tapping-mode.
It is well known that the photophysical properties of conjugated polymers are strongly
dependent on their chain conformation and supramolecular structure besides the chemical
composition. Therefore, resolving these two structural features is an important fundamental
research for conjugated polymers in thin film state. In recent years conjugated polymers with
well-defined nanostructure in thin film have been prepared using various techniques. Swager et al.
have shown that the Langmuir-Blodgett (LB) deposition technique can be very useful for
organization of rod-like polymers [4]. The surfactant-like poly(phenylene ethynylene)s (PPE), using
tapping-mode atomic force microscopy, was shown to form aligned network structure. Further, Cho
et al. have reported the formation of solvent-induced nanowires in poly(3-hexyl thiophene) (P3HT)
thin films [5]. The morphology of P3HT thin films can be controlled by varying the solvent vapor
pressure. Grazing-incident XRD (GI-XRD) profile shows that the nanowires consist of P3HT
bilayer structure normal to the plane. McCullough et al. have used block copolymer having
conjugated polymer as one of the component for preparing well-defined semiconductive
nanostructure [6]. The morphology can be easily constructed in these materials by changing volume
fraction and segregation strength between the blocks. Nanowires have been shown to form in
P3HT-b-PS diblock and PS-b-PHT-b-PS and PMA-b-PHT-b-PMA triblock copolymer using this
concept. The final products of these nanowires formed by using conjugated polymer are molecular
field transistor, curved circuit board, and curved displayer with combining its electroluminescent
properties.
different state, concentration, and molecular weight. The pair correlation function g(r) and the
radius of gyration Rg can be calculated from the coordination of molecular beads.
Experimental section
A. Materials and preparation
The synthetic route of poly(2-phenyl-3-phenyl-4-(3’,7’-dimethyl octyloxy)-1,4 -phenylene
vinylene) (DPO-PPV) has been described elsewhere [10]. The number average molecular weight
(Mn) and polydispersity index of the polymer were 415,196 g/mol and 1.107, as measured using gel
permeation chromatography (GPC) with polystyrene standards. The fresh solution of DPO-PPV
was prepared by dissolving polymer powder in chloroform at 70oC.
Dimethyl phthalate-end capped poly(9,9-dioctylfluorene-2,7-diyl) (PF8) was obtained from
American Dye Source Inc. The number-average molecular weight (Mn) and the polydispersity index
are 49,000 g/mole and 2.01, respectively, as measured by gel permeation chromatography calibrated
by polystyrene standards.. The fresh solution of PF8 was prepared by dissolving polymer powder in
THF and chloroform at 70oC. The concentration of polymer solution was denoted by the weight
percent.
The AFM samples were prepared by drop-casting polymer solution on highly ordered pyrolytic
graphite (HOPG) / 3-aminopropylstyrol (APS) -modified mica / Crystal Violet (CV) -modified
mica.
Figure 1. The chemical structure of a) DPO-PPV and b) PF8.
B. Instruments
Atomic Force Microscopy. The AFM we used in Moscow State University is FemtoScan which is
a) b)
on APS-modified mica drop-casted from the dilute polymer solution. Some segments of molecules
were lying on the surface. The height profile gives the height of 1.3 nm of segments, and the total
length of segments can be more than 1.5 um, and the width of a segment can vary from 80 to 100
nm. Usually AFM shows lateral dimensions of the objects bigger than they actually are. It happens
because of two main reasons: 1) the tip has a non-zero radius and the piezoscanner that moves the
sample is not ideal. According to the height of segments, it suggests that the single chain
conformation on APS-modified mica [11].
Another modified-mica surface was prepared for investigating the conformation of PF8 single
chains. Figure 6 is AFM images of PF8 on CV-modified mica drop-casted from the dilute polymer
solution. The surface of CV-modified mica shows many crystal domains of crystal violet. The
polymer clusters (marked) which exhibit significant frictional difference could still distinguish from
the crystal domains,. The averaged height of polymer clusters is 1.6 nm.
Figure 2. AFM topological images of DPO-PPV on HOPG drop-casted from the dilute polymer
solution.
a) b)
a) b)
Figure 6. AFM a) topological and b) frictional image of PF8 on CV-modified mica drop-casted from
the dilute polymer solution.
B. Hydrodynamic Radius Distribution of Conjugated Polymer in Solution
Figure 7 is the hydrodynamic radius distribution of PF8/THF solution. There are three
relaxation modes observed in the figure. The fast mode was attributed to the backbone segments of
PF8 chains, the middle mode was due to the cluster aggregates of PF8, and the slow mode was
attributed to the larger clusters or air bubbles. However, all profiles exhibits the aggregate cluster
varying the concentration from 0.6 mg/ml to 5 mg/ml, and this implies that the concentration is
higher the critical concentration of PF8 in THF. Figure 8 is the hydrodynamic radius distribution of
PF8/chloroform solution. The hydrodynamic radius distribution of PF8/chloroform solution is
slightly larger than that of PF8/THF solution, due to the better solvent quality.
100 101 102 103 104
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0 PF8 in THF
0.6 mg/ml
1 mg/ml
1.4 mg/ml
2.5 mg/ml
5 mg/ml
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
D
ec
ay
T
im
e
D
is
tr
ib
ut
io
n
F
un
ct
io
n,
A
(t
)
R
H
(nm)
Figure 7. Hydrodynamic radius distribution of PF8/THF solution with varying concentration.
0 1 2 3 4 5
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
g(
r)
r
64-1-5
64-4-5
64-8-5
Figure 9. The pair correlation function of polymer chains with different chain length. (Volume
fraction, and total energy are the same)
Figure 10 presents the pair correlation function of polymer chains with different total energy.
The first peaks of all profiles are located at r = 1.1, but the peak of the higher total energy shows
broader peak width. The broader peak width is due to the penetration or overlapping of beads
associated with high total energy. Furthermore, the density of the first molecular shell also
decreases with increasing total energy of beads. In this case, the radius of gyration square does not
show significant changes. This implies that the total energy of beads only influences the amplitude
of the Brownian motion of beads.
0 1 2 3 4 5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
g(
r)
r
16-1-5
32-1-5
64-1-5
Figure 11. The pair correlation function of a polymer chain with volume fraction.
Conclusions
The series AFM studies showed APS-modified mica is a good substrate for investigating single
chain conformation.
From the DLS results, the polymer concentration of our experiments was higher than the
critical concentration. The three relaxation modes were attributed to the backbone segment,
aggregated clusters, and further larger clusters or air bubbles, respectively. The hydrodynamic
radius size of PF8 chains in chloroform is slightly larger than that in THF due to better solvent
quality.
From the simulation results, polymer chains were strongly influenced by intrachain motion due
to connectivity between beads and the interchain motion. The beads on polymer chains overlapped
and penetrated together under high total energy of beads. It showed higher efficiency of space using
under low volume fraction of polymer chains in simulation box.
References
1. Ou-Yang, W. C.; Chen, H. L.; Ho, D. L.; Tsao, C. S.; Yang, G.; Peng, K. Y.; Chen, S. A.; Han,
行政院國家科學委員會
台俄雙邊國際合作計畫出國報告
計畫名稱： 梳狀高分子系統之奈米結構形成研究(3/3)
Hierarchical Nanostructure Formation in Comb-Like Polymer System
計畫編號：NSC 96-2218-E-007-001
主持人：陳信龍 國立清華大學化學工程系
出國人：陳軍佑 國立清華大學化學工程系
出國日期：2008/06/18–2008/06/27
訪問地點：莫斯科大學(Moscow State University)物理系
have shown that the Langmuir-Blodgett (LB) deposition technique can be very useful for
organization of rod-like polymers [4]. The surfactant-like poly(phenylene ethynylene)s (PPE), using
tapping-mode atomic force microscopy, was shown to form aligned network structure. Furthermore,
Cho et al. have reported the formation of solvent-induced nanowires in poly(3-hexyl thiophene)
(P3HT) thin films [5]. The morphology of P3HT thin films can be controlled by varying the solvent
vapor pressure. Grazing-incident XRD (GI-XRD) profile shows that the nanowires consist of P3HT
bilayer structure normal to the plane. McCullough et al. have used block copolymer having
conjugated polymer as one of the component for preparing well-defined semiconductive
nanostructure [6]. The morphology can be easily constructed in these materials by changing volume
fraction and segregation strength between the blocks. Nanowires have been shown to form in
P3HT-b-PS diblock and PS-b-PHT-b-PS and PMA-b-PHT-b-PMA triblock copolymer using this
concept. The final products of these nanowires formed by using conjugated polymer are molecular
field transistor, curved circuit board, and curved displayer with combining its electroluminescent
properties.
B. Hydrodynamic Radius Distribution of Conjugated Polymer in Solution Studied by
Dynamic Light Scattering
SANS or SAXS techniques are not suitable for resolving large-scale structure of several
hundred nanometer. Dynamic light scattering (DLS) is a complementary tool to reveal the
correlation functions and corresponding hydrodynamic radius distribution of polymer solutions. The
confident size of measurement is from 100 nm to 105 nm which is dependent on instruments. The
measured normalized intensity correlation function, g2(t), is related to the normalized electric
correlation function, g1(t), through the Siegert relation [7-8]. The hydrodynamic radius distribution,
Rh, was obtained through the Stokes-Einstein equation, Rh=kBT/(6D), where kB is the Boltzmann
constant, T is absolute temperature, D is the diffusion coefficient, andis solvent viscosity.
C. Molecular Dynamics Study of Coarse-Grained Polymer Chains in Vacuum
American Dye Source Inc. The number-average molecular weight (Mn) and the polydispersity index
are 49,000 g/mole and 2.01, respectively, as measured by gel permeation chromatography calibrated
by polystyrene standards.. The fresh solution of PF8 was prepared by dissolving polymer powder in
THF and chloroform at 70oC. The concentration of polymer solution was denoted by the weight
percent.
The AFM samples were prepared by drop-casting polymer solution on highly ordered pyrolytic
graphite (HOPG) / 3-aminopropylstyrol (APS) -modified mica / Crystal Violet (CV) -modified
mica.
Figure 1. The chemical structure of a) DPO-PPV and b) PF8.
B. Instruments
Atomic Force Microscopy. The AFM we used in Moscow State University is FemtoScan which is
made by Prof. Igor V. Yaminsky’s Lab at the Faculty of Chemistry. The software which is used to
control the AFM and analysis experimental results called FemtoScan Online. We use both
contact-mode and tapping-mode to scan surface of samples to obtain the height images, friction
images and phase images. The cantilevers of contact-mode scanning are fpC01S, and the length of
cantilever is 350 um, and the resonate frequency of cantilever is 10 kHz, and the force constant of
cantilever is 0.03 N/m. Cantilevers used in tapping-mode scanning are fpN11S, and the length of
cantilever is 100 um, and the resonate frequency of cantilever is 190-325 kHz, and the force
constant of cantilever is 5.5-22.5 N/m.
Dynamic Light Scattering. The DLS measurements were carried out in sealed cylindrical glass
tubes at scattering angles 90 with the use of an ALV DLS/SLS-SP 5022F equipment consisting of
a) b)
the crystal domains,. The averaged height of polymer clusters is 1.6 nm.
Figure 2. AFM topological images of DPO-PPV on HOPG drop-casted from the dilute polymer
solution.
Figure 3. a) AFM topological image of DPO-PPV on HOPG drop-casted from the concentrated
polymer solution. b) The line profile of the red dot line in 3a.
Figure 4. AFM topological images of DPO-PPV on HOPG drop-casted from the concentrated
polymer solution.
a) b)
a) b)
a) b)
slightly larger than that of PF8/THF solution, due to the better solvent quality.
100 101 102 103 104
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0 PF8 in THF
0.6 mg/ml
1 mg/ml
1.4 mg/ml
2.5 mg/ml
5 mg/ml
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
D
ec
ay
T
im
e
D
is
tr
ib
ut
io
n
F
un
ct
io
n,
A
(t
)
R
H
(nm)
Figure 7. Hydrodynamic radius distribution of PF8/THF solution with varying concentration.
100 101 102 103 104
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
D
ec
ay
T
im
e
D
is
tr
ib
ut
io
n
F
un
ct
io
n,
A
(t
)
R
H
(nm)
PF8 in Chloroform
0.5 mg/ml
1 mg/ml
2.5 mg/ml
5 mg/ml
Figure 8. Hydrodynamic radius distribution of PF8/chloroform solution with varying concentration.
C. Molecular Dynamics Study of Coarse-Grained Polymer Chains in Vacuum
Figure 9 is the pair correlation function of polymer chains with different chain length. The
volume fraction of polymer chains is 0.267. Three profiles show sharp peak at r = 1.1 which
of the Brownian motion of beads.
0 1 2 3 4 5
0
5
10
15
20
g(
r)
r
64-4-1
64-4-5
64-4-10
Figure 10. The pair correlation function of polymer chains with different total energy. (Volume
fraction, and chain length are the same)
Figure 11 is the pair correlation function of a polymer chain with volume fraction. The volume
fraction of a polymer chain with 16, 32, and 64 beads in simulation box are 0.067, 0.133, and 0.267,
respectively. The intensity of the first peak decreases with increasing volume fraction. The
efficiency of space using is lower for the case of higher volume fraction. The polymer chain of
simulation does not rearrange to specific packing of lattice under higher volume fraction. The
randomly packing of the first molecular shell causes the decrease of the first peak of pair correlation
function.
