1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
背光板光源之微加工燈具設計與製作 
(英文計畫名稱) 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 96-2221-E-036-027 
執 行 期 限：97年 08月 01日至 98年 07月 31日 
主 持 人：簡昭珩   大同大學機械系 
計畫參與人員：陳志朋   大同大學機械系 
Abstract 
In order to make the liquid crystal display (LCD) 
panel thinner, brighter and no-Hg containing, 
the light emitting diodes (LEDs) are generally 
beginning to replace conventional cold cathode 
florescent lamp (CCFL) as light sources for 
LCD backlight unit (BLU). The thermal 
management and cost are consideration caused 
by more LEDs used for larger size BLU. For 
saving the fabrication cost and considering the 
luminous uniformity of most commercial BLU, 
a novel C-like linear tube is fabricated by 
precision and micromachining technique. The 
LED C-like linear tube is not only decreasing 
LEDs for BLU but also increasing the optical 
efficiency for emitting the light into the BLU. 
The C-like linear tube is proposed to replace 
CCFL tube for thin film transistor (TFT) LCD 
applications. 
Keywords: Backlight unit, LED, linear tube 
 
Introduction 
The backlight unit (BLU) is gradually 
comprised of light sources, a light guide plate 
(LGP), two diffusive sheets, two prism sheets 
and a reflective sheet. The BLU converts a 
linear light source (such as a cold cathode 
fluorescent lamp, CCFL) or some point-like 
sources (such as light emitting diodes, LEDs) 
into a surface source to emit the LCD panel. 
Generally, CCFL was mostly utilized as the 
light source which is placed beside the panel, 
but CCFL was considered as not a green 
products, and required high operation voltages. 
Additionally, the LED is utilized to replace 
conventional CCFL as light sources for BLU 
due to their desirable characteristics, such as a 
large color gamut, color temperature 
adjustability, long lifetime, and environmental 
safety (i.e. mercury free). The LED BLU 
has been utilized in large size display (such as 
notebook) and small size display (such as 
mobile phone). Notebook panels with white 
LED backlight has been widely used because 
it’s thinner, lighter and more energy-saving and 
more portable [1]. The hot spot, the over heat 
and the cost problem will be caused by utilizing 
more LEDs numbers for medium size and large 
size BLU. In recent years, to be achieved the 
market requirements for the panels of mobile 
phone and notebook, the light source is desirable 
with a thinner size, lighter weight, longer batter 
life, low energy consumption and high luminous 
uniformity. For realizing the efficiency and the 
luminous uniformity of the BLU, design of such 
an output light-fitting will be very important. 
Yourii et al [2] recommended an optical system 
3 
 
 
Fig. 2. The simulation results of luminance for 7” C-like 
tube by (a) sheet metal fabricated process, (b) wire-cut 
fabricated process 
 
Experiment 
Two kinds of experimental methods for the LED 
C-like linear tubes are used in this study. A 
thinner C-like tube structure of aluminum with 
reflectivity of 85% is made by sheet metal 
process. First, the C-like mold is fabricated by 
precision micromachining process. After that, 
the aluminum (T6061) plate is placed inside the 
mold to form as the ladder reflector in C-like 
tube shown in Fig. 3(a). The other way being 
used to fabricate the C-like tube structure is 
wire-cut technology. The material removal from 
the workpiece occurs by a series of rapidly 
recurring current discharges between two 
electrodes, separated by a dielectric liquid and 
subject to an electric voltage. Fig. 3(b) shows 
the fabrication process for wire-cut C-like tube. 
To establish a reflective film into the C-like tube 
structure, the flexible high reflectivity film 
material, such us the Ag (96%) film or the Au 
(85%) film is deposited. 
 
Fig. 3. The C-like tube structure is made by, (a) sheet 
metal process, (b) wire-cut technology 
 
Results and Discussions 
To reduce LEDs and enhance the brightness of 
BLU, the LED C-like linear tube is constructed 
to approve it. To measure the linearity of the 
LED C-like linear tube, the BM-7 is to set up to 
measure the luminance and shown in Fig. 4. The 
distance between the BM-7 and C-like linear 
tube is 350mm, and the measuring diameter is 
5mm. The high power LED (the spec: 85lm/W, 
θ 1/2: 85 degrees is measured by BM-7) is 
utilized as the light sources and placed on the 
end of two side of the tube. Fig .5 shows the 
light distributed relation of between the 
luminance and the view angle for the high 
power LED. The 7 locations of 2” LED C-like 
linear tube with only one LED located on one 
side of tube are measured the luminance of tube 
by BM-7. Fig. 6 shows the luminous distribution 
for the 2” linear tube (the wire-cut tube is 
chosen to present in this study). The uniformity 
of 53% can be achieved. To measure the 7” 
LED C-like linear tube, two LEDs are placed on 
