 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
可調多波長光纖雷射在光快速跳頻分碼多工系統之應用(II) 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2215-E-155-003 
執行期間： 94 年 08 月 01 日至 95 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：祁甡 
計畫參與人員： 彭煒仁、彭朋群 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：(FD10C037G) 元智大學光電工程研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 95 年 10  月 2 日 
 
 
 
附件一 
 
Keywords：全光高速跳頻分碼多工系統，區域接取網路，飛比布洛
雷射。 
 
二、 Abstract 
 
The authors propose a novel frequency-overlapping multigroup scheme for a 
passive all-optical fast-frequency hopped ode-division multiple-access 
(OFFH-CDMA) system based on fiber Bragg grating array (FBGA). In the 
conventional scheme, the users are assigned those codes constructed on the 
nonoverlapping frequency slots, and therefore the bandgaps between the adjacent 
gratings are wasted. To make a more efficient use of the optical spectrum, the 
proposed scheme divided the users into several groups, and assigned the codes, 
which interleaved to each other to the different groups. In addition to the higher 
utilization of the spectrum, the interleaved nature of the frequency allocations of 
different groups will make the groups less correlated and, hence, lower the 
multiple-access interference (MAI). The corresponding codeset and its constraints 
for this new scheme are also developed and analyzed. The performance of the 
system in terms of the correlation functions and bit error rate (BER) are given in 
both the conventional and the proposed schemes. The numerical results show that, 
with the multigroup scheme, performance is much improved compared to the 
conventional scheme. 
 
三、 Method 
 
Figure 1 shows the architecture of an OFFH-CDMA transmitter and receiver pair. A 
broadband light source is firstly data modulated using the amplitude shift keying 
(ASK) format and then encoded by the FBGA, where Gi is the frequency passband 
of each grating. The matched receiver recovers the transmitted data with a 
reciprocal FBGA. Optical power received from other transmitters will be 
up-shift of the frequency allocation of the first group, we can obtain the allocation 
of the second group. The allocation of the third group can be obtained further by 
up-shifting the allocation of the second group, and so on. The frequency allocation 
is shown in Fig. 2(d). The first frequency slots of different groups are assigned as:           
1, 1 0 1j g
g
Bf f j j N
N q
= + ≤ ≤ −                         (3) 
where 1, jf is the first frequency slot of the j -th group, and gN  is the total group 
number. The corresponding hopping frequency in the j -th group can be written as: 
     ( ) ( ) ( )( ), 1 1h j j g j
g g
B j Bf l f C l f N C l j
q N N q
 = + + = + +   
                   (4) 
This formula can be explained as that all users use the same first slot 1f  with the 
modified code pattern of ( )g jN C l j+  multiplier the slot width ( )gB N q . However, 
an additional slot with a width of ( ) ( )gB j N q×  is required in this new scheme. 
Since the distribution of the frequency slots is more uniform than the conventional 
scheme, better spectra-efficiency is expected. In addition, the reduced overlapping 
area of the frequency slots between any two different groups implies less 
correlation, thus lessening the MAI. To promise all the users can communicate with 
all the other users, each transceiver should equip with a tunable en/decoder.  
 
OFFH-CDMA Transmitter OFFH-CDMA Receiver
FBGA
Broadband pulse 
generator
D
at
a 
En
co
di
ng
11
01
… G1
G2
G3
GN
Star 
Network
GN
GN-1
GN-2
G1
FBGA
Threshold 
Detection
 
Fig. 1 A OFFH-CDMA transmitter and receiver pair with the FBGA as an en/decoder. 
 
successive gratings to overlap for higher slot density, as shown in Fig 6.  
To evaluate the interference of different group number, one-bit of all the 24 users 
are synchronously sent to the decoder of the first user, as shown in Fig. 7(a). The 
decoded outputs are shown in Fig. (b)- (d), where the interference are normalized to 
the power of the desired signal, which is located at the central peak. The input pulse 
is of Gaussian shape and with a 3-dB width of 0.2 chip duration.    
In Fig. 7 (b), it is found that the cross-correlation is almost as high as the 
auto-correlation when all users are active. The system suffers serious interference, 
which will lose the correct detection window for the receiver and degrade the 
system performance. Figure 7(c) shows the proposed system with the 2-group 
method. It is found that the cross-correlation function is reduced to only 2/3 of that 
in the conventional case. The auto-correlation can be easily distinguishable and the 
performance also improved. Increasing the number of groups, as shown in Fig. 7(d) 
and (e) where 6=gN  and 24, the cross-correlation decreases to a level even lower 
than half of that in the conventional scheme. There is no apparent difference 
between the group number of 6 and 24. Since increasing the number of group 
requires stringent tenability and temperature controllability on the grating, the 
better group number that trade off between signal performance and system 
complexity might be 6 in this case.  
the required tuning and temperature control for group number of 24 is much 
stringent since the smallest spacing of two frequency slots is only 0.012 nm and it 
is expected that slight variation of environmental parameters such as temperature, 
humidity or stress will degrade the system seriously. It is very costly to maintain 
the performance of such a system. Thus, a trade off between the group number and 
the system reliability must be made, which will depend on the stability of the 
FBGA. In this simulation results, it seems that when the group number exceeds 6, 
the improvement of the BER is not so significant. Therefore, a group number with 
6 rather than 24 would be a better choice in this example.  
As described in section II, since one additional frequency slot is required in our 
new scheme, we also simulate the case of the conventional scheme with one more 
slot in Fig. 8 (a). However, it is not as that in our multi-group scheme, the 
improvement is very limited even with the one additional frequency slot.   
Figure 8(b) is the case with a frequency interval of 0.4 nm. Although the greater 
spacing of the frequency slots will decrease the slot number over the available 
bandwidth, the normalized interference, iA , among different groups becomes  
smaller. The frequency slots are now reduced to 17=q and the code weight N  is 
left unchanged. The group number of 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 are shown in this figure, which 
indicates that the performance are getting better with the increasing number of 
groups. The saturation of the BER improvement is also observed. 
Figure 9 compares the performance of the two systems with different slot densities. 
With a smaller group number, the interference mainly results from the users of the 
same group. This makes the system with lower slot density, 17=q , to have higher 
probability to hit, and exhibits worse performance. When the group number 
increases, the dominant interference mainly comes from users of different groups. 
That pushes the system with lower slot density, 17=q , to perform better since the 
smaller overlapping areas between the groups. It can be found that in the case of the 
for larger area, the higher one could be a better choice. Therefore, the slot density 
and the group number should be carefully selected depending on the size of the 
network.  
(a)
6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30
10-14
10-12
10-10
10-8
10-6
10-4
10-2
 
 
B
ER
Simultaneous Users
 Ng=1
 Ng=2
 Ng=3
 Ng=4
 Ng=6
 Ng=24
 Ng=1, q=26
4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
10-18
10-16
10-14
10-12
10-10
10-8
10-6
10-4
10-2
 
 
B
ER
Simultaneous Users
 Ng=1
 Ng=2
 Ng=4
 Ng=8
 Ng=16
(b)  
Fig. 8 Bit error rate versus simultaneous users with different group number. (a) The number of 
frequency slots q  and the code weight N  are equal to 25 and 12, respectively. (b) The number 
of frequency slots q  and the code weight N  are equal to 17 and 12, respectively. 
