 1 
 
I. Introduction 
Optical code-division multiple-access (OCDMA) is an attractive technology due to its robust 
performance, asynchronous network access capability, flexibility. However, as pointed out by Shake [1], 
OCDMA techniques suffer from inherent security disadvantages. In order to overcome the security problem 
we propose a code reconfiguration scheme.  
On enhancing OCDMA network confidentiality, previous studies suggest that frequently code changing 
can make the intruder’s task more difficult. In this paper, we propose a dynamic code reconfiguration 
mechanism governed by changing user’s signature codes in a random way. By exclusively assigning to each 
network user a set of pseudo-orthogonal maximal- length sequence (M-sequence) codes and randomly 
selecting one among them to represent each user’s signature. A central node station is assumed to monitor 
network traffic condition and to signal transceiver coder-decoder pair to perform signature codes changing.  
The periodic length of binary M-sequence codes is basically of odd or prime number. The codes 
possess well-known two-level correlation magnitudes and can be processed with correlation subtraction to 
attain codes orthogonality. The cyclic and periodic characteristics of M-sequence codes are compatible with 
the free-spectral range (FSR) of the same dimension of arrayed-waveguide gratings (AWGs).  
The novel prime-dimensional AWGs are full-connect optical devices with every input port connected 
to every output port, or every output port has an optical connection from every input port. Upon central 
node’s reconfiguration command, reconfiguration switches in front of transceiver codecs will direct 
incoming optical signals to the random-select input of AWGs for cyclic reconfiguration coding/decoding. 
Reflective mirrors are placed at the AWG output in accordance with signatures code pattern. Optical 
circulators and optical isolators are also placed to direct reflected output signal chips and to prevent coded 
signal chips be reflected back into the incoming channel. A balanced photo-detector (BPD) is placed at 
AWGs output for correlation subtraction between the two complementary signature decoders.  
II. Waveguide-Grating-Based OCDMA Signatures  
The proposed random signature reconfiguration scheme appears to be a promising coding type for 
generating OCDMA code spaces that are large enough to prevent successful brute force code search attacks. 
Therefore, intelligent eavesdroppers will seek other forms of attack such as detecting the coded 
transmissions of a particular user and derive the code from this information. If an eavesdropper can detect 
the transmitted signals accurately enough, he can solve for the code and then use to detect subsequently 
 3 
 
 
Figure 2. M-signature codes reconfiguration over AWGs’ periodic routing and FSR characteristics. 
III. Structuring Signature En/decoders.  
Figure 3 shows the proposed AWG-based transmit-en/de coders. In each transmitter, the spectrum of 
broadband sources are filtered within one free spectral range (FSR) of the AWG router and the output ports 
of AWG routers are placed mirrors (e.g., output port #i is placed reflective mirror when signature chip xi in 
code vector X is “1”).  
For signature encoder of red frame, an illustration is drawn in the upper part of Fig. 3 with signature 
code pattern Xu = (1, 1, 0). The corresponding reflective mirrors are placed at output ports #1 and #2 of the 
3x3 AWG, but leaves open at output port #3. If information bit to be transmitted is “one”, the 
reconfiguration switch will direct the ‘light signal’ to the first input port of the AWG coder. The wavelength 
signature chips (Xu1)n = (λ1λ20, λ4λ50, λ7λ80, λ10λ110, λ13λ140, λ16λ170, λ19λ200) will be transmitted.  
An illustration is drawn in the lower part of red frame of Fig. 3 with signature Xd = (1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0). 
Reflective mirrors are placed at the output ports #1, #2, #3, #6 of the 7x7 AWG, while leaves open the 
output ports #4, #5, and #7. If signal light to be transmitted is bit “one”, the reconfiguration switch will 
direct the ‘light signal’ to the first input port of the AWG coder. The wavelength signature chips (Xd1)n = 
(λ1λ2λ300λ60, λ8λ9λ1000λ130, λ15λ16λ1700λ200) will be transmitted. So the user#1 sequence S(1,1) = (Xu1)n +  
(Xd1)n which is user#1 signature codes.  
For example the Fig. 3, the upper 3x3 AWG the switch been turned to the first input the sequence 
(Xu2)n = (λ10λ3, λ40λ6, λ70λ9, λ100λ12, λ130λ15, λ160λ18, λ190λ21) being transmitted. The lower 7x7 AWG of 
Fig 3 the sequence is (T2Xd)n = (Xd3)n = (λ10λ3λ4λ500, λ80λ10λ11λ1200, λ150λ17λ18 λ1900). The user#2 
 5 
 
2. Make a hard data decision on other users data bit. 
3. Regenerate an estimate of the received signal for other users interfered signals.  
4. Subtract the estimated interference from original Y. 
After the above process, the received Y(1) (after one stage)  have no MAI term, so the performance 
will be enhanced.   
IV. Reconfigurable OCDMA Signature Coders  
When the central controller detect the security threats, and it will send a code-reconfiguring signal to 
change each user’s signature codes.  
Here we define the symbol S(x,y) property, the suffix of x which represent the light turn to specific input 
port of the upper 3x3 AWG, and the suffix of y which represent the light turn to specific input port of the 
lower 7x7 AWG. In the red frame of Fig. 4, S(2,4) represents the switch turn to the second input port at the 
3x3 AWG and the fourth input port at the 7x7 AWG. Similarly, as illustrated in the blue frame of Fig. 4, 
S(3,6) represents the switch turn to the third input port at the upper 3x3 AWG and the sixth input port at the 
lower 7x7 AWG.  
Based on the above processes, user 1 signature code can be decode to S(2,4), and user 2 signature code  
also can be decode to S(3,6).   
 
Figure 4. Reconfigurable signature coders. 
VI. Concluding Remarks  
We have devised a network codec to combat eavesdropping based on signatures reconfiguration and 
bipolar coding of OCDMA networks.  
摘要 
  此次 ChinaCom 2011 國際會議，是 IEEE主辦的重要會議之一，-
有機會去參加此次會議相當開心。這份出國報告中，會清楚解釋此趟
行程的出發動機跟目的，詳細描述成果發表時的過程，與各國學者切
磋砥礪的互動情景。甚且，學術研究上的收穫，暨參加國際研討會的
所見所聞與感動的地方，也將一一詳述。作者更欣喜在參與會議的期
間，把握住非常難能可貴的機會，與各國相同領域的研究學者互動，
以提昇作者的研究視野與品質，暨提昇本校在「光電與通訊領域」 成
果。最後附上此行的建議供下次參加國際會議的參考。 
III 
 
目次 
1.目的......................................4 
2.過程......................................6 
3.心得......................................7 
4.建議事項..................................8 
5.發表論文之摘要............................8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
參加本會議對尖端光電中心的助益，生醫光電目前是相當重要的
領域，由於量測的物體通常是生物組織所以誤差必須非常小，傳統量
測的儀器通常是改善儀器的製程或者更換整套設備去降低量測的誤
差，但如果結合通訊中的適應性信號處理的方法，就不一定要更換全
部設備去降低誤差，只需在後端作一些處理就可以有效降低誤差並使
得量測出來的圖像誤差最低。如此一來既省時又不用更換整套設備相
信對偏遠地區的醫療會有相當的助益。 
  本校正努力營造一個優質的研究型大學，更期許能步入國際頂尖
學府的行列中。因此，作者非常感謝校方能適時提供補助，使作者最
新的研究成果能在大會發表。並可更早感受「光電領域」全球最新發
展的趨勢。由於學術上的交流與互動是必然的趨勢，因此更凸顯作者
出席此次 ChinaCom 2011 國際研討會的重要性。此次投稿至
ChinaCom 2011 的論文被大會接受，並獲邀於現場作口頭報告(oral 
presentation)。此行發表的論文能得到產、官、學、業界與會人員的
認同與肯定。作者更欣喜在參與會議的期間，把握住非常難能可貴的
機會，與各國相同領域的研究學者互動，以提昇作者的研究視野與品
質，暨提昇本校在「光電與通訊結合領域」的研究成果。 
7 
 
3. 心得 
  本次所參加的 ChinaCom 2011國際會議。，屬於通訊領域重要的
國際會議之一。我滿懷熱情地與來自世界各國學、官、業、研各界人
士作技術交流，暨在光電通訊的議題上分享彼此的研究成果與先進技
術。本次會議具有為數眾多的 invited paper 在現場發表，暨各國著
名企業研發單位的論文發表等重要的特色。此次議題對於學生相關
「光分碼多工系統」的理論與實際運用的整合具有莫大的幫助。因此
使本人充滿興奮暨圓滿地完成 ChinaCom 2011的論文發表，同時也擴
展了專業新知、技術發展、及新研究方法之瞭解。 
  發表論文的過程中，與會人士針對發表內容的相關主題也給予諸
多的肯定與整正。對於更進一步的細節，我們也在較為輕鬆的茶敘場
合裡交換與分享彼此的研究成果。藉由此次國際會議，除了感受到與
會人士的熱情與真誠外，更加覺得學術上與「世界接軌、國際互動」
的重要性。同時也勉勵自己，本著負責踏實、專業創新的態度。在學
術研究上展現最大的努力，期能提昇自己的研究成果。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 基於折疊式光正交碼之多重速率光分碼多重擷取系統中逐級干擾消除與動態
指配碼更換之探討
計畫主持人: 黃振發
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-006-096- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
