In order to reduce the single-path retardation 
change in the R region, we propose a new design such 
that it can switch the VA LC molecules in the R region 
“partially” (e.g. by ~ 45o) as shown in figure 1. The 
major modification required in this new design is that 
the pixel electrode in the R region now consists of nar-
row striped electrode which can generate mainly fring-
ing fields instead of vertical fields. (Note: though not 
shown in figure 1, polarizers and quarter-wave films are 
required above and below the two substrates as usual 
for the VA-type TR-LCDs.) 
 
Generation of fringing fields: 
 
As mentioned above, the partial switching in R 
region is achieved through fringing fields which are 
generated using narrow striped electrode. This is shown 
in more detail in figure 2. As shown in figure 2, the 
striped electrode is characterized by i) the electrode 
width (L) and ii) the electrode gap (G) between two 
adjacent striped electrodes. In general, larger the value 
of L is, larger the value of G would be required in order 
to maintain a relatively large proportion of fringing 
fields in the R region. This is because, as shown in fig.2, 
the electric fields generated just “above” the striped 
electrodes tend to be stronger and more like vertical 
fields. The fringing fields that we desire (which tend to 
be oblique in direction and also weaker in strength com-
pared to vertical electric fields) are generated mainly in 
the gap region G “between” two adjacent striped 
electrodes as shown in figure 2.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
 
In this section, we demonstrate some of the opti-
mized simulation results obtained through the 
commercially available 2D LCD simulation software 
“2DimMos” provided by autronic-Melchers, Germany. 
The LC parameters used are based on the Merck liquid 
crystal MLC 6608 with ∆n = 0.077 and ∆ε = -3.7. The 
cell gap d was chosen to be 6µm in these examples and 
the VA pretilt angle was set to be 85o. A lower VA 
pretilt angle (e.g. 85o) has been found to achieve better 
matching of the R-V and T-V curves compared to 
those with higher VA pretilt angle (e.g. 88o-89o). A 
reference for obtaining lower VA pretilt angle can be 
found in [7].   
 
With the above initial conditions, figures 3 & 4 
show the matched R-V and T-V curves for cases of 
L=1µm and L=3µm respectively. The required gap 
values G for matching the T-V curves in these two 
cases are 6µm and 8µm respectively. As shown in both 
figures, the R-V and T-V curves have become much 
better matched and with similar slopes (gamma curves) 
and high optical efficiency of ≥ 90% for both R and T 
at the same applied voltage of 3V. Figures 5 and 6 
show the effects of the gap value G on the R-V curves 
with L=1µm and L=3µm respectively. As shown in 
figures 5 & 6, the R-V curves shift to the right (i.e. 
with a lower slope) as G value increases. At the same 
time, and is particularly obvious in case of L=3µm, the 
maximum value of R also decreases gradually as the G 
value increases. Moreover, as we compare the results 
obtained for L=1µm and L=3µm, we note that the po-
tential maximum value of R at the optimized condition 
also becomes lower as L increases since higher and 
higher proportion of vertical fields are generated in the 
R region.  
 
Figure 7 shows the 2D reflectance profile across 
the R region for the case with striped electrode design 
L=1µm and G=6µm. (Note: the striped electrode and 
the reflector are both located on the upper substrate in 
the simulation model since the ambient light is incident 
from the bottom in the 2DimMos simulation software) 
As shown in fig. 7, the reflectance increases as the ap-
plied V increases and reaches its maximum at 3V. The 
reflectance also shows peaks and valleys across the cell 
at the intermediate voltage levels. Referring to figure 2, 
the peaks correspond to the regions above the centre of 
each striped electrode segment where vertical electric 
field is dominated and valleys correspond to the regions 
between striped electrode segments where fringing field 
is dominated. Moreover, as shown in fig.7, the LC 
molecules in the bulk are indeed switched partially by ~ 
45o to achieve the maximum reflectance R at 3V. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Generation of fringing fields in the R region 
using narrow striped pixel electrode. The striped 
electrode is characterized by its width L and gap G. 
G L 
Insulating layer 
Striped pixel electrode 
reflector 
Common electrode 
170       IDW ’06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alternative design:  
An alternative design for this Partial Switching 
scheme is to place the striped electrode on the upper 
substrate instead of on the lower substrate (i.e. the 
common electrode in R region now becomes the striped 
electrode) as shown in figure 8. The advantage of this 
alternative design is that the insulating layer on the re-
flector as shown in figure 2 may not then be necessary. 
Our preliminary simulation results indicate that this 
alternative design is also feasible and slightly different 
matching values of L and G may be required. 
 
SUMMARY 
 
In summary, we have demonstrated the principle 
of a new design for single-cell-gap Transflective 
TFT-LCD using Partial Switching. The design is based 
on the use of narrow striped electrode in the reflective 
region such that a strong proportion of fringing field is 
generated there. This results in the reduction of LC 
switching angle in the R region and leads to much better 
matched T-V and R-V curves. Our simulation results 
show that both high T & R optical efficiency of ≥ 90% 
can be obtained simultaneously at the same applied 
voltage. Our examples shown in this paper are based on 
VA LC mode with a pretilt angle of ~85o. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
The authors would like to acknowledge Toppoly 
Optoelectronics (now TPO), Taiwan for their generous 
support on this research project when WK Choi was 
with CREOL, University of Central Florida (UCF), 
USA. The authors would also like to gratefully ac-
knowledge the National Science Council (NSC), Tai-
wan for providing the current research support at NTU. 
Many kind and helpful supports received from the 
autonic-Melchers in Germany and Taiwan on the LCD 
simulation software 2DimMos are deeply appreciated. 
WK Choi would also like to express his thanks to all his 
former colleagues and co-workers at UCF for their 
supports on this and various other projects.   
 
References:  
1. H. W. Do et al, “VA Transflective Liquid Crystal Display 
with Patterned electrode”, IDW”03, p.153 (2003) 
2. S.J. Roosendaal et al, “Novel high performance Transflec-
tive LCD with a Patterned Retarder”, SID’03, p.78 (2003) 
3. C.J. Yu et al, “A Transflective liquid crystal display in a 
multimode configuration’, SID’04, p.642 (2004) 
4. K.H. Park et al, “IPS liquid crystal cell with zigzag elec-
trodes for Transflective Displays”, JJAP, Vol 43, No. 11A, 
p.7536 (2004) 
5. Y.C. Yang et al, “Single Cell gap Transflective Mode for 
Vertically Aligned Nematic Liquid Crystals”, SID”06, 
p829 (2006)     
6. W.K. Choi & S.T. Wu, “Transflective liquid crystal dis-
play with Partial Switching,” US Patent US7,015,997,B2, 
Mar. (2006) 
7. K. Maruyama et al, “Application of Polymer-Stabilized 
Technique for VA STN-LCDs”, SID’06, p.765 (2006)   
   2.25V  2.5V    2.75V   3V 
Common electrode 
layer (0V) 
Striped pixel electrode   
(>0V) layer with L and G
Peak  Valley 
Fig. 7: A 2D reflectance profile across the R region with 
L=1µm and G=6µm. The reflectance increases as ap-
plied voltage increases. The Peaks and Valleys corre-
spond to the regions which are dominated by vertical
and fringing fields respectively. The LC molecules in 
the bulk are indeed rotated “partially” to ~ 45o direc-
tion by the fringing fields to achieve the maximum 
reflectance R =~100% at 3V.   
Fig.8: Alternative design with striped electrode on the 
upper substrate (i.e. striped electrode is now the 
common electrode instead of the pixel electrode)
Striped common electrode
Reflector (& pixel electrode)  
172       IDW ’06
