摘要 
半導體為我國重要產業，而半導體設備昂貴設備直接相關成本往往佔了總製造成本很
高，八吋晶圓廠設備機台成本佔 2/3 以上，十二吋晶圓廠設備機台成本約佔 3/4，因此機台
的充份利用為晶圓製造業的重要課題，當維護保養或當機事件發生時，往往會造成機台閒
置而利用率降低，因而對於生產的影響很大。故如何提供半導體晶圓廠，建立設備機台維
護管理之決策系統，來做好設備機台維護管理，達到產能極大化及成本最小化之決策能力
顯得格外的重要。 
本研究從半導體設備機台維護的角度來考量維護策略之優化，建立一個整合型設備機
台維護管理之決策系統整體架構。本研究分三年三階段完成。 
 
第一年分為兩部分，第一部份是針對維護管理績效指標系統及量測機制，建立設備管
理指標系統及量測機制。第二部份將該系統電子化建立Excell-based軟體以利業界自動計算
績效並以灰關聯模型協助多目標績效排序，以Excell-based法建構評選準則架構及權重，再
利用灰關聯分析法對半導體設備機台維護管理的部門進行計算及排序，找出晶圓廠設備部
門之績效優劣，提供決策者來評估。 
由此計畫完成期刊及國際研討會論文如下: (國內研討會論文略去) 
1. D. Daniel Sheu and Jack Hsueh, “Analysis of operator-machine configuration for 
single and multi-processor machines”, Accepted by the International Journal on 
Production Research, 2008. (SCI) 
2. D. Daniel Sheu, “Overall Input Efficiency and Total Equipment Efficiency”, IEEE 
Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, Vol. 19, No. 4, Nov. 2006. pp. 1-6. 
(SCI) 
3. D. Daniel Sheu, “Overall Input Efficiency and Total Equipment Efficiency”, IEEE 
Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, Vol. 19, No. 4, Nov. 2006. pp. 1-6. 
(SCI) 
4. D. Daniel Sheu and Jeff Lin, “Equipment Management Strategy Under Machine Capacity Loss”, 
International Journal of Production Economics, Volume 103, Issue 1, September 2006, pp. 
308-315 (SCI) 
5. 許棟樑、黃嘉若, “半導體製造廠黃光區機台規劃的模擬研究”, 中華國際計量管理期刊, 
第三卷第一期, 2006. 
6. D. Daniel Sheu and Xavier Hong, “Intelligent Repair Analysis for Backward Design: 
Using Cellular Phones as Examples”, accepted by The 9th Asia Pacific Industrial 
Engineering and Management Systems Conference, Nusa Dua, Bali, Indonesia, 
December 3-5, 2008.  
7. D. Daniel Sheu and Xavier Hong, “Intelligent Repair Analysis for Backward Design: 
Using Cellular Phones as Examples”, accepted by The 9th Asia Pacific Industrial 
Engineering and Management Systems Conference, Nusa Dua, Bali, Indonesia, 
December 3-5, 2008.  
8. D. Daniel Sheu and Frank Hsu, “Manpower Standard and Optimization for Equipment 
Preventive Maintenance”, pp 1133-1142, Proceedings of the 7th Asia Pacific Industrial 
2. 提供管理者一套較好之衡量生產線平衡之指標，該指標與生產線之生產績效指標具
有高度相關。 
   三、呂哲儀-多產品迴流製程的設備產能損失管理系統(附錄:4) 
成果: 
1. 提供在多產品迴流製程加工生產之條件下，個別機台之預期維護保養及不預期當機
對產能損失影響之計算。 
2. 提供在多產品迴流製程加工生產之條件下，機台預期維護保養及不預期當機之修復
優先順序之決策模式，以最小化總體產能損失。 
   三、張少華-使用灰色理論於設備維護保養時間點預測(附錄:6) 
1. 建構設備機台 PM 之灰色預測系統架構，未來可針對晶圓廠來開發成網路平台化及 
  自動化軟體系統能提供設備人員，製程人員及製造相關人員查詢設備機台 PM 之預 
  測結果做最佳化安排，減少彼此之衝突及損失。 
 
第三年第一階段中，以預防保養為研究標的建立多機台下維護時機組合模式，將維護
排程與生產排程結合並考量多項生產績效指標，以模擬工具來模擬，找出多機台時間點
（PM）下維護時機組合對生產能力及維護成本之影響，運用 GA(Genetic Algorithm)找出多
機台時間點（PM）下維護時機之最佳評估方案。第二階段中，除了 PM 外加入矯正維護現
象，建立多機台時間點（PM&CM）下維護時機組合模式，運用模擬工具來模擬，運用
GA(Genetic Algorithm)找出多機台下時間點(PM&CM)維護時機之最佳評估方案。 
完成論文: 
一、洪柏璿-干擾性插單之成本模型與決策系統建立－以半導體廠為例(附錄:9) 
成果： 
1.建立一新型之半導體干擾性插單狀況之決策管理系統，且適用於代工廠與 DRAM 廠，
並且將手法運用到所有具有拉貨情況的產業。 
2.首度以生產面的角度分析本，提出一創新模式結合決策生產中 Cost 面與 Benefit
面，並詳細的定義出影響管理決策的會計因子。 
二、戴子傑-機台產能損失之財務分析模式(附錄:8) 
    成果: 
    1. 提供一套以 Excel 為基礎之迴流製程中機台當機的階層式分析決策模式，以利管理    
       與決策，在最低成本花費之下進行機台當機維護與干擾性插單機台轉換，避免不必   
       要的 產能損失與成本浪費，提升公司之競爭力。 
  2. 詳細定義出工廠與機台投入與輸出面成本分析的項目，並列出各成本項目的說明。 
   
附錄 
附錄 1 
設備總和效率模式及試算表之建立---以步進機
為例 
中文摘要 
設備在半導體產業中佔製造成本的大部分，故準確地衡量設備效率是很重要的，本研
究以步進機為例，建立一個計算設備整體效率的模式。業界大多只著重在設備綜合效率之
divided into components such as: operator efficiency, material usage efficiency, facility efficiency, 
etc.The research addresses the issue of determining optimal operator-machine configuration so 
that the ideal operator-machine assignment can be found thus the operator efficiency can be 
calculated as a part of overall input efficiency.Formula for optimal operator-machine 
configuration for single and multiple process machines are derived. Simulation models were used 
to verify the formula with matching product releasing times and machine utilization rate. The 
formula allows us to determine the best operator-machine ratio and calculate the operator usage 
efficiency. Data from a wafer reclaim factory were used to illustrate the calculation of equipment 
usage efficiency, opportunity for doubling operator usage efficiency was identified using the 
derived formula.Contributions of this work include: 
1) Deriving a set of formula to calculate optimal operator-machine configuration and calculating 
the operator usage efficiency. 
2) Providing an Excel-based software for easy calculation of the ideal operator-machine 
configuration & usage efficiency. 
 
Keywords: Overall Input Efficiency, Operator Usage Efficiency, Operator-Machine 
Configuration, Gantt Chart. 
 
 
 附錄 3 
設備預防維護人力標準模型之建立 
摘要 
    在半導體系統中，各生產設備必須經常性地進行機台維護保養之工作，且設備成本往
往佔製造成本極大的比例。本研究建立一套以設備預防維護人力需求為考量的人力標準模
型，提出一以最小化人力僱用以及最小化人力資源使用量為目標的最佳化混合整數規劃模
式，並以遺傳演算法求算最佳的維護資源人數與維護作業起始時間點，並以田口實驗設計
方法（Taguchi Method）決定最佳的因子水準組合。將其結果與一般傳統以裕度為基礎的資
源撫平法相比較，結果顯示本研究所建立的預防維護人力標準不但可以提供最佳化人力僱
用水準亦能改善各個產能損失指標，包括平均在製品數量、平均週期時間、總產量以及人
力資源利用率等指標。 
    本研究的貢獻包括： 
1. 提供一建立預防維護人力標準的方法論來求算最適的人力僱用水準與人力使用
效率。 
2. 提供最佳化的預防維護人力排程。 
關鍵字：半導體設備維護管理、預防維護、資源撫平、遺傳演算法 
 
ABSTRACT 
     The study established an approach to determine the manpower standard for equipment 
preventive maintenance（PM） while optimizing the scheduling of PM based on manpower 
requirement. A mixed integer programming（MIP） model was proposed to optimize the 
manpower usage based on either minimum manpower employment or  leveling of the 
manpower usage. Genetic algorithm（GA） was used to solve the MIP model. The results were 
compared with a slack-based traditional resource leveling approach. the result shows that the 
established PM manpower standard not only provided the optimal manpower usage level but also 
improve the production performance in cycle time, stage move, and WIP level. 
    Contributions of this research include: 
toward minimum machine capacity loss. 
Key words: Multi-product, Re-entrant Processes, Capacity Loss Management, Preventive 
Maintenance, Equipment Management. 
 
 附錄 5 
迴流工廠生產線平衡分析與設計 
摘要 
  本研究建立了一可分析及衡量複雜迴流工廠流程平衡之新指標。同時亦提出一標準化
流程可用來設計迴流工廠之機台數組合。不若以往傳統生產線平衡效率指標未考慮搬運時
間之影響，本研究所提之生產線平衡率指標將流程間較大之搬運時間納入考量。該指標同
時運用幾何平均數之觀念來衡量生產線平衡的程度。透過模擬真實之迴流工廠，考慮 30 種
不同的生產線機台數組合後，所得結果顯示本研究所提之生產線平衡率指標相較於傳統之
生產線平衡效率對於生產績效指標如生產週期時間，在製品存貨，產出率等，具有較好之
解釋能力。值得一提的是，本研究所提之公式亦可簡化以運用在直線式生產線上。 
本研究之貢獻如下： 
1. 提供管理者在需求已知的情況下，規劃機台數量之決策依據。 
2. 提供管理者一套較好之衡量生產線平衡之指標，該指標與生產線之生產績效指標具
有高度相關。 
關鍵字：迴流製程、生產線平衡率、生產線平衡效率、產能規劃、流程平衡設計、生產線
機台數組合 
Abstract 
The research established a new index to analyze and measure the process balance for complex 
re-entrant factories. A formalized process for designing equipment configuration of re-entrant 
factories was also proposed. 
Unlike traditional line balance efficiency which failed to consider the impact of transport times 
between processes, the proposed line balance rate takes into consideration of possible long 
transport time between processes. It also used the geometric mean to measure the goodness of the 
line balance. Simulation of some 30 line configurations using true factory data showed that the 
proposed line balance efficiency has better capability to explain the production performance such 
as cycle time, work-in-process level, and production rate compared to the traditional line balance 
efficiency. It is also noted that the same formula for line balance rate can also be reduced to 
measure the goodness of line balance for straight-through production lines.  
 
Contributions of the research include: 
1. Providing a decision-making process for managers to machine configurations with given 
production demands. 
2. Providing a better index to measure the goodness of balance rate which closely related to the 
performance of the production lines.  
 
藉著規劃者過去的經驗以及定性的邏輯推論與分析，所規劃出的結果時常過於主觀且缺乏
明確的依據，然而，由於製程整備所造成的損失，機台/製程的群組時常對於整體完工時間
與系統產出有嚴重的影響。本研究提出了一個建構於相似係數概念與換線整備次數並以時
間為基礎的機台/製程群組方法，並利用分類枝狀圖(Dendrogram)進行製程與機台的分群，
此外，本研究建立了一個以 Excel 為基礎的群組程式，提供工程師一個客觀量化的自動化
分群流程。 
    本研究進而使用實際晶圓廠的生產資料以及運用模擬模式測試本研究所提出之群組技
術的生產績效。並且考量先進先出法(FIFO)與關鍵比率法(CR)，此兩派工法則，研究結果
顯示將本研究所提出之群組技術與現有工廠分群以及兩個比較的方法進行比較，於系統產
出(throughput)、平均完工時間(average cycle time)、平均在製品數(Work In Process)、達交率
(delivery rate)與移動量(move)，此五樣績效指標上皆顯著的優於其它三者。 
 
關鍵字：製造單元設計、群組技術、分類枝狀圖 
 
ABSTRACT 
 The quality of manufacturing design has foundamental impacts on the production 
performance. In designing manufacturing cells, people often apply Group Technology to group 
the parts into the different machine families and/or parts families based on product or process 
features. This often relies on individual’s experience and qualitative logical analysis. The results 
can be subjective and arbitrary. However, major impacts by machine/process grouping are often 
on the overall cycle time and throughput due to set-up/change-over losses. This research 
proposed a time-based machine/process grouping method based on similarity concept and 
set-up/change-over times. A Dendrogram is used to group the processes and machines. An 
Excel-based grouping program is established to automate the objective quantitative process ready 
for engineers to use. Using data from a real semiconductor fabrication plant, simulation models 
were used to test the performance of the proposed grouping technique. First-in-First-out and 
Critical Ratio dispatching rules were experimented. The results show that the proposed grouping 
technique has far better performance than the existing grouping and two other comparative 
methods in throughput, average cycle time, average WIP (Work In Process), delivery rate and 
move.  
 
Key words: Manufacturing Cell Design, Group Technology, Dendrogram  
 
 
 附錄 8 
機台產能損失之財務分析模式 
摘要 
沒有充分利用機台會造成機台產能損失，是很多人忽略的議題，機台當機與干擾性插
單都會造成機台閒置並且利用率降低卻是無法避免的情況，如何在這些情況下使得公司的
損失成本降到最低，是業界急需迫切解決的問題，因此本研究深入探討機台產能損失的成
以及其存在的需求性與負面影響程度。 
關鍵字：干擾性插單、成本模型、成本分析 
 
Abstract 
Interruptive production refers to abrupt change of production items or sequence in otherwise 
planned or optimized production schedule. Factories usually operate based on a planned schedule 
or set order releasing and dispatching rules which presumably enable efficient operations. 
However, in order to make the monthly production figures look better, it is often in industries that 
factories pull up the production priorities of products that can be finished by the end of each 
month thus disregarding the normal plan or dispatching rules. This phenomenon and the 
“super-hot-run” situations are interruptive productions which disrupt the optimal schedule and 
dispatching scheme. The negative impacts of disruptive productions may be quite significant – 
especially in semiconductor fabs when interruptive production changes often cause huge financial 
and operational impacts. Many people realize the negative impact of disruptive production, yet, 
there has been little known literature providing in-depth cost/benefit model for such phenomena 
not to mention a spread-sheet based decision support system for usage. This research analyzed in 
great depth the disruptive production phenomena in thin film and etching areas of a DRAM fab 
and established a cost model for such practice using I.C. fabrication industry as the application 
platform. 
Key Words：Interruptive Production, Cost Model, Cost Analysis, Disruptive Production, Super Hot 
Run 
 
 
Session MA3b: Artificial Intelligent 2 
  
Session MA3c Car Navigation Systems 
  
Session MP1: Information Technology and Management 1 
  
Session MP2a: Reverse Logistics  
  
Session MP2b: Artificial Intelligence 3 
  
GS Session MP2c: Transportation and Logistics 1 
  
Session MP3a: Artificial Intelligence 4 
  
Session MP3b: Manufacturing System 2  
  
Session MP3c: Artificial Intelligence 5 
  
Session TA1a: Transportation and Logistics 2 
  
Session TA1b: Supply Chain Management 2 
  
Session TA1c: Inventory Management 
 
Session TA2: Artificial Intelligence 6 
  
Session TA3a: Container Terminal 3 
  
Session TA3b: Supply Chain Management 3 
  
Session TA3c: Information Technology and Management 2 
  
Session TP1: Applications in Industry 1l 
 
Session TP2a: Applications in Industry 2 
Session TP2b: Vehicle Routing 
Session TP2c: Advance Planning and Scheduling 
本人發表之論文頗受參與者肯定與回響.其題目與摘要如下: 
Analysis of operator-machine configuration for 
single and multi-processor machines  
Abstract  
The research addresses the issue of determining optimal machine-operator 
configuration so that the ideal machine-operator ratio can be found and the operator 
efficiency can be calculated as a part of overall input efficiency. Formula for optimal 
machine-operator ratio for single and multiple processor machines are derived. The 
formula allows us to determine the best machine-operator ratio and calculate the 
