 2 
一、前言 
 
電動車輛的發展主要分為電動汽車、電動機車、電動自行車、電動代步車以及電
動輪椅車，前三種電動車主要提供一般民眾使用，而後兩種則歸屬為醫療器材[2]。我
國電動車輛的研發主要都集中在電動代步車及電動自行車上[3]，目前在全球市場的
佔有率為65% 。電動代步車因歸屬於醫療器材，使用者多數為年老或是身體有所殘
疾者，為增加使用者的使用舒適度，可於使用者介面上加以改良。 
目前商用的車型其市區的行駛里程約35～60km[4,5]，符合一般機車使用者平均
每日行駛里程的需求，但跟燃油車輛相比相距甚遠，且多數充電時間長達6～8小時；
目前雖已有研究出改良式充電方法[7]，但是充電時間還是很長且充電站不如加油站
方便、普及。長效力電池技術短時間內難以有突破性的發展，故如何做好有效的電源
管理，以及殘電器精準度的提升，是目前電池管理技術的研發重點[11]。 
目前檢測鉛酸電池殘電量( State of Charge, SOC )的方法主要有( 1 )內阻測定法
( Internal Resistance )[13,14]，( 2 )開路電壓法( Open Circuit Voltage )[15]，( 3 )庫倫量
測法( 安培小時積分法 )[10,15]，( 4 ) 負載電壓法[4]，( 5 ) 類神經網路量測法
( Artificial Neural Network, ANN )[18,19]。而電動車輛的殘電器多採用開路電壓法或
是改良式庫倫法[11]，前者有成本優勢，後者的精準度較高；目前國內電動車輛的電
量指示精度約為 75～80％[4]。改良式庫倫法需要大量的計算，難以以微控制器進行
設計，故無法應用於低單價的電動代步車。既有的殘電估測僅預估開路電壓；然而對
代步車使用者而言，剩餘的可行駛哩程是消費者所需要的。可行駛哩程受駕駛習慣、
路況、電池特性影響，並非單存的電池端電壓可以預測出。電池的深度放電及老化，
使得常用的端電壓方式無法有效估測電池剩餘能量，造成電動代步車之使用者無法有
效的得知是否還可繼續騎乘，且還能騎乘多久。因此，預測電動代步車的剩餘里程是
有其必要性的。 
考量成本以及實用性，本研究試圖建構適合微控制器或系統晶片的演算法。選用
模糊理論做為估測模型，透過電腦系統將電池做各階段的充放電，將電池端電壓、電
池充放電電流、電池內阻、電池溫度與環境溫度的參數數據加以記錄，其參數以ANFIS
來建立，將殘電量換算為剩餘哩程數。 
 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
 4 
表 1. 各電池模型比較表 
項次 模型名稱 優點 缺點 
1 理想電池模型 最簡單 誤差率高 
2 電池內電阻電路模型 較簡單 精準度欠佳 
3 戴維寧等效電路模型 能呈現過充放電等特性 無自放電特性的參數 
4 電池等效電容模型 能呈現自放電等特性 無充放電能量轉換耗損參數 
5 四階動態電池模型 準確度高 建立模型手續複雜 
 
三、可續航里程的 Fuzzy模型 
 
本研究利用『微型嵌入式資料收集器』及 ANFIS 兩大軟硬體核心建構出預測電
動代步車剩餘哩程之架構 (圖 2)。 
 
圖 2 預測剩餘哩程架構圖。 
 
根據上節電池模型，影響可續航里程參數有電池放電電流、放電形式、電池老化、
自放電率、環境溫度。因此本研究自製微型嵌入式資料收集器，將上述影響可續航里
程參數做資料的收集。電動代步車的電源供應系統主要由兩個電池串聯供電，故而必
須要同時能夠監控兩顆電池的各項參數，才能精確的推斷出電動代步車的殘電量及剩
餘哩程數，所需監控的參數包含了兩顆電池的( 1 )端電壓、( 2 )溫度、( 3 )電流、( 4 )
車輛的轉速、及( 5 )車輛的哩程，故『微型嵌入式資料收集器』必須能同時擷取 5個
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
 6 
4.2微型嵌入式資料登錄器 
 
『微型嵌入式資料收集器』實體如圖 4，架構如圖 5.所示，以Microchip 18F8722 
MCU ( Microchip, USA )為資料收集器的主要核心。使用 5個解析度 8位元的 ADC通
道，分別用來接收兩顆電池的端電壓值、電池溫度值、及兩顆電池串聯之電流值，以
及一個 16 位元的記數器用來估算車速、及哩程。擷取完的資料經由 SPI ( Serial 
Peripheral Interface )介面，將資料傳輸入 EEPROM( ATW25X80, Atmel, CA, USA )內
部存放，全部資料擷取儲存完畢後，將資料經由 RS-232傳輸至電腦，來進行後段的
紀錄、處理、分析。 
 
 
圖 4. 微型嵌入式資料收集器 
 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
 8 
 
圖 6. 推論系統建構流程圖  
 
本研究在資料收集器所收集的資料分別為 A電池溫度、B電池溫度、電池電流、
A電池電壓、B電池電壓、行車車速、及行車旅程。因此將設計三組參數來進行比較，
如表 2.所示。 
表 2. 測試參數組別表 
å=F i
å=F i ò=
t
dtdvttav
0
)( q電流累積 、電池平均壓 、行車車速第三組
電流累積 、電池電壓、行車車速第二組
電池溫度、電池電流、電池電壓、行車車速第一組
測試參數
組別
 
 
由此三組參數進行測試，來選定較佳的參數。將選定之參數進行訓練，建立模糊
規則庫，來預測電動代步車之剩餘旅程、及殘電量。 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
 10 
的長；第二、三組所採用的電流參數，既電流累積值，是具有規律性的資料。第一、
二組所使用的電壓參數為未平均電壓值，第三組所使用的電壓參數為平均電壓值。 
 
 
表 4. 輸入參數測試結果 
組別  減少之誤差值 
第1次訓練誤差值 11090.7      第一組 
第30次訓練誤差值 11066.7 
 
24 
第1次訓練誤差值 11090.7      第二組 
第30次訓練誤差值 10061.4 
 
1029.3 
第1訓練次誤差值 11090.7      第三組 
第30訓練次誤差值 10081 
 
1009.7 
 
    在車速參數部分圖 7分別為定速 2km/hr、定速 4km/hr、定速 6km/hr之圖形，而
在圖形最後面部份，車速有跳動的行為乃是由於電池深度放電所導致的。車速參數是
很重要的一項參數。車速與電流的使用量成正比，進而影響電流參數即電流累積值，
而電流累積值與哩程值成正比，因此車速是影響電流值、電流累積值、哩程值之重要
因素，且車速參數它具有明顯的可區別性( 2km/hr、4km/hr、6km/hr ) 有利於 ANFIS
在資料的歸納與計算。車速圖中 2km/hr處，車速有不穩的現象，其原因為操控車速
之開關老化所導致。 
  
 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
 12 
較佳之訓練參數，因此本研究採用此組參數進行模糊規則庫之建立。 
 
 
 
圖 8. 預測剩餘哩程數測試結果: “ +” 為實際值，” *” 為推論值 
 
 由圖 8.可以知道 2km/hr之推論質與實際值平均誤差為-0.5km、4km/hr之推論
質與實際值平均誤差為+0.45km、6km/hr 之推論質與實際值平均誤差為+0.48km、
最後 4km/hr 之推論質與實際值平均誤差為+0.23km，總體推論值與實際值平均誤
差均小於 0.5km。由此實驗全程 5.7km，假設各時速推論值平均誤差均為 0.5km，
因此推論準確率達到 91％。 
 
五、結論 
 
    由於電池有深度放電及電池老化的問題，造成電動代步車在行駛時無法得知
真正的電池剩餘能量，讓消費者無法判斷電動代步車是否可繼續行駛，因此本研
究希望以剩餘哩程數來替代電池電壓值作為是否可繼續行駛的重要依據。本研究
使用 ANFIS來進行剩餘哩程的推估，利用自製的資料收集器收集電動代步車電池
電壓、電流、溫度、車速及哩程參數，且各項被收集參數都包含( 1 )電池老化( 2 )
電池殘電量的因子。並且進行模糊規則庫的建立，進而達到預測剩餘哩程的目的，
其準確度達 91％。因此本研究結果，可提高消費者判斷電動代步車是否可繼續行
駛之便利性，以及有助於電池的管理。 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
 14 
[7] 國科會電動機車學習網。
http://www.nsc.gov.tw/dept/acro/version01/battery/electric/index.html 。 
[8] Hua C.C. and Lin M.Y. 2000. “A study of charging control of lead-acid battery for 
electric vehicles.” IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics. 
Volume 1,  Page(s):135 – 140. 
[9] Cai, C.H., Du, D. and Liu, Z.Y. 2003. “Battery state-of-charge (SOC) estimation 
using adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS).” IEEE International 
Conference on Fuzzy Systems. Volume 2, 25-28 Page(s):1068 – 1073. 
[10] Kiessling, R. 1994. “A battery model for monitoring of and corrective action on 
lead-acid EV batteries.” Proceedings of the Ninth Annual. Battery Conference on 
Applications and Advances Page(s):191 – 193. 
[11] Sato, S. and Kawamura, A. 2002. “A new estimation method of state of charge 
using terminal voltage and internal resistance for lead acid battery.” Proceedings 
of the Power Conversion Conference. Volume 2, Page(s):565 – 570. 
[12] Casacca, M.A. and Salameh, Z.M. 1992. “Determination of lead-acid battery 
capacity via mathematical modeling techniques.” IEEE Transactions on Energy 
Conversion, Volume 7, Issue 3, Page(s):442 – 446. 
[13] Giglioli R., Cerolo P., 1990, "Charge and Discharge Fourth Order Dynamic Model 
of the Lead Battery", 10Ih Int'l Electric Vehicle Symposium, Hong Kong, p. 1-9. 
[14] Alber, G. and Migliaro, M.W. 1994. “Impedance testing-is it a substitute for 
capacity tests?” INTELEC International Telecommunications Energy Conference 
Page(s):245 – 249. 
[15] Tenno, A., Tenno, R. and Suntio, T. 2002. “Battery impedance and its relationship 
to battery characteristics.” INTELEC Annual International Telecommunications 
Energy Conference Page(s):176 – 183. 
[16] Chiasson, J. and Vairamohan, B. 2005. “Estimating the state of charge of a 
battery.” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, Volume 13, Issue 
3, Page(s):465 – 470. 
[17] Caumont, O., Le Moigne, P., Rombaut, C., Muneret, X. and Lenain, P. 2000. 
“Energy gauge for lead-acid batteries in electric vehicles.” IEEE Transactions on 
PDF created with pdfFactory trial version www.pdffactory.com
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 95-2221-E-415-022- 
計畫名稱 電動代步車殘留電力可行駛里程估測技術開發 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
丁慶華 
國立嘉義大學 
會議時間地點 自 95 年 11 月 23 日至 95 年 11 月 25 日  韓國首爾 
會議名稱 The 3
rd International Symposium on Machinery and Mechatronics for Agricultural and 
Biosystems Engineering (ISMAB 2006) 
發表論文題目 
1. The Use of Microwave Irradiation for Pest Egg Eradication in Rice – A Simulation Study
2. Development of an Automatic Ultrasonic Monitoring System for the Life History of 
Callosobruchus Maculatus 
 
一、參加會議經過 
ISMAB 研討會由中華民國(2002 年)、日本國(2004 年) 與 大韓民國(2006 年) 三國相關
產學界輪流舉辦。 
生物技術為重點發展科技，世界各國紛投入此領域的基礎研究與技術開發，因其屬較新
的科技且尚未定型化，又因其為低耗能產業，因此列為我國的重的科技。生物技術的發展對
產業與國家經濟的效益，在於如何將之工程化，此領域與傳統工程系統最大不同乃是生物系
統本身具有生命，因而必需導入機電系統整技術，進行系統化的處理。 
此次農業與生物生產系統機電整合國際研討會，提供農業與生物生產系統機電整合學術
界交流及合作，進而強化國內相關學術研究領域應用視野，對與會國內學者有顯著助益 
ISMAB 2006 於韓國首爾舉行，本人口頭發表國科會的研究成果「以微波進行米粒蟲卵撲
滅的模擬研究」，以及「豆象生活史的自動超音波監測系統開發」。 
「以微波進行米粒蟲卵撲滅的模擬研究」使用已乾燥過的穀物為實驗材料，討論電磁波
感應加熱既微波對穀物的影響，並應用電磁波感應加熱技術去除穀物內部所寄生的微生物。
利用 Femlab 這套軟體，來作微波能量轉換為熱能、穀物吸收熱能之熱分佈、及熱能可能對穀
物造成變形之模擬。利用熱顯像儀取得實際穀物熱分佈結果，並與 Femlab 模擬穀物熱分佈結
果作比對。將 Femlab 模擬結果與實際穀物熱分佈結果一致。利用 Femlab 模擬軟體，模擬出
各種微波功率對穀物的熱分佈、及水分散失的結果，並找出適合的功率範圍，使得穀物結構
在不被破壞的情況下除去穀物內部的微生物。 
「豆象生活史的自動超音波監測系統開發」，則是藉由觀測豆象在紅豆宿主中咬食時的微
弱超音波響應，來探討其各齡層的生長狀況。此研究整合信號處理，類比電路設計，以及生
物觀察，進而開發出一套上述功能的監測系統。豆象在不同齡層時會有不同進食頻率，藉由
本系統可以判斷出豆象的成長狀況，進而採取如微波的撲殺方式，將成蟲或卵撲滅。 
 
 
 
Proceedings of the 3rd International Symposium on Machinery and Mechatronics 
for Agriculture and Biosystems Engineering (ISMAB) 
23-25 November 2006, Seoul, Korea 
 
 
 
THE USE OF MICROWAVE IRRADIATION FOR PEST EGG 
ERADICATION IN RICE – A SIMULATION STUDY 
 
 
 
Ching-Hua Ting 1*, Yang-Lin Feng 1 
 
1Department of Biomechatronic Engineering, National Chiayi University, 300 
University Road, Chiayi 60004, Taiwan 
*Corresponding Author-- Voice: +886-5-271-7642, Email: cting@mail.ncyu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract: A major problem in the production, storage, and marketing of rice 
is the infestation of insect pests. Present quarantine treatments for rice 
include controlled atmosphere, cold treatment, high-pressure nitride 
depressing, and irradiation with electromagnetism. Neither method except 
electromagnetism provides possibly safe and total eradication. The 
possibility of using microwave irradiation for pest egg disinfestation for rice 
is proposed and investigated with computer simulation. Simulation results 
reveal that microwave irradiation is a possible, potential solution in pest 
egg infestation control for rice production.  
 
Key Words: Microwave, Rice disinfestation, Pest, Finite element simulation 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Rice is an important source for protein and energy in the Asian communities. A major problem 
in the production, storage, and marketing of rice is the infestation of insect pests. Pest 
infestation leads to 10% of packed rice being rejected in summer and 5% on annual average 
(Yao and Lo, 2001). This does not only incur economic loss but also a big discrepancy to 
supplier’s reputation. Methods currently employed for pest control for rice include chemical 
fumigation, ionizing radiation, controlled atmosphere, cold treatment, conventional hot air or 
water heating, dielectric heating using radio frequency and microwave energy (Nelson, 1996, 
Wang et al., 2003). Though the research is quit spurring, the problem of pest infestation for 
rice remains. Adult pests such as rice weevils appear few weeks after a rice pack is open. 
Hence it is necessary to conduct pest control before supplying rice to the customers. 
 
The use of electromagnetic radiation as a pest killer can be traced back to World War I, an 
early attempt using X-rays to kill beetles in packaged cigarettes (Fleming, 2003). Since then 
the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of gamma, microwave, and radio frequencies have been 
investigated and used in the agricultural and food processing industries to control insect 
growth in wheat, flour, stored grain, and cereal products and to eradicate wood-boring insects 
in timber (Reagan, 1982; Warchalewski et al., 2000; Wang and Tang, 2001). Electromagnetic 
radiation is a non-chemical method and hence nowadays, it has been used as an alternative 
to chemical insecticides to control pests inhabiting in a variety of commodities to reduce 
insect damage during storage and transportation (Miura et al., 2004). Advantages of 
microwave pest eradication include speed, efficiency, and the absence of toxic, hazardous or 
polluting residues. Also, insects are unlikely to develop a resistance to microwave radiation 
as they often do to chemical insecticides (Nelson, 1996).  
 
ρ PC 1210*63.55 −=∆
∆
t
T f ε ′′2E   (1) 
with ρ  material density, PC  specific heat, T∆ change of temperature, t∆ processed 
duration, f  frequency, E  intensity of electric field, and ε ′′  the loss of dielectricity. 
Equation (1) gives us information on how strong ( E ) the microwave irradiation and how long 
( t∆ ) the exposing are required to provoke a temperature rising on the subject. 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Dielectric loss factor of rice and water as a function of frequency.  
 
Computer Simulation 
Simulation Model 
 
The energy absorbed by the pest and the rice as shown in Figure 1 is described with a 
magnetism-thermal conversion model of Eq (1). The pest accumulates more heat and hence 
a higher temperature than the surrounding can be expected. The electromagnetism-
thermodynamics connection between a weevil egg and the host rice was simulated with a 
finite-element model using the COMSOL Multi-physics software (COMSOL Multi-physics 3.2, 
COMSOL, Sweden) based on Eq (1) and thermodynamics. The rice was assumed to contain 
abundant starch of characteristics ρ =1300 kg‧m-3, PC = 5657.659 J‧kg-1‧K and ε ′′ = 
1.37 and is exposed to microwave irradiation with a frequency of 2450MHz and electric field 
of 243 V‧m-1. Rice is likely to be infested with weevil eggs on the surface and the adult 
worms dig into the kernel before the larvae stage (Christensen, 1974).  
 
Simulation Results 
 
Figure 3 shows the simulation result of temperature distribution on infested rice exposed to 
microwave irradiation. The rice was exposed to microwave irradiation for 272seconds. The 
weevil egg has a temperature rising to around 65 OC while the host rice remains at 25 OC the 
ambient temperature. Pest eggs at such a high temperature is likely to be eradicated and the 
characteristics of the host material are unlikely to be influenced thermally.  
 
REFERENCES 
 
Christensen, C. M. 1974. Storage of cereal grains and their products. The American 
Association of Cereal Chemists, Minnesota. p. 549. 
De Pomerai, D. I., B. Smith, A. Dawe, K. North, T. Smith, D. B. Archer, I. R. Duce, D. Jones, 
E. P. M. Candido. 2003. Microwave radiation can alter protein conformation without bulk 
heating. FEBS Letters. 543: 93-97. 
Fleming, M. R. 2003. Worldwide Asian longhorned beetle eradication: An example of 
biological applications of noncontact microwave and ultrasound radiation. PhD Thesis. 
The University of Utah. 
George, R, M. and S. A. Burnett. 1991. General guidelines for microwaveable products. Food 
Control. 2(1):35-43. 
Juliano, B. and O. D. Bechtel. 1985. The rice grain and its gross composition. In Rice: 
Chemistry and Technology. B. O. Juliano (ed). The American Association of Cereal 
Chemists, Minnesota. pp. 17~57. 
Miura, M., H. Kaga, A. Sakurai, T. Kakuchi, and K. Takahashi. 2004. Rapid pyrolysis of wood 
block by microwave heating. Journal of Analytical and Applied Pyrolysis 71(1):187-199. 
Nelson, S. O. 1991. Dielectric properties of agricultural products --measurements and 
applications. IEEE Transactions on Electrical Insulation 26(5):845-869. 
Nelson, S. O. 1996. Review and assessment of radio-frequency and microwave energy for 
stored-grain insect control. Transactions of the ASAE 39(4):1475-1484. 
Reagan BM. 1982. Eradication of insects from wool textiles. Journal of the American Institute 
for Conservation. 21(2):1-34. 
Seki, T., M. Wakabayashi, T. Nakagawa, M. Imamura, T. Tamai, A. Nishimura, N. Yamashiki, 
A. Okamura, K. Inoue. 1999. Percutaneous Microwave Coagulation Therapy for Patients 
with Small Hepatocellular Carcinoma: Comparison with Percutaneous Ethanol Injection 
Therapy. Cancer. 85(8): 1694-702. 
Stanford, M.A. 1990.Microwave oven characterization and implications for food safely in 
product development. Microwave World. 11(3):7-9 
Wang, S. and J. Tang. 2001. Radio frequency and microwave alternative treatments for 
insect control in nuts: a review. Agri. Eng. J. 10(3&4): 105-120. 
Warchalewski, J. R., A. Pra, J. Gralik, and J. Nawrot. 2000. The effect of gamma and 
microwave irradiation of wheat grain on development parameters of some stored grain 
pests. Molecular Nutrition and Food Research 44(6):411-414. 
Yao, M. C., and K. C. Lo. 2001. Evaluation of control methods for insect pests of rice in small 
packages. Plant Protection Bulletin 43:173-187. 
 2/10
and reducing its extent of hazard. However, in order to know the status of Callosobruchus 
maculatus in host beans, the traditional way is to dissect each host bean to inspect its 
development situation, then its life history and cycle can be understood (Gatehouse et al., 
1979). It is time consuming with high cost. The long-term intact life history of single parasitic 
Callosobruchus maculatus also can not be observed continuously. Though the ecology of 
Callosobruchus maculatus can be observed by the X-ray technology (Osuji1, 1982), but only 
the post activity and behavior of Callosobruchus maculatus can be observed, and the earlier 
larva can not be found. Besides, the X-ray is harmful to life entity, and the vitality of exposed 
Callosobruchus maculatus may be reduced or even dead. So, a non-invading type and 
long-term continuous detecting system is much beneficial for observing the life entities such 
as Callosobruchus maculatus. 
The Callosobruchus maculatus parasitized in the bean will bite the fiber organization 
during its eating activity, the ultrasonic wave above 20kHz will be generated upon the rupture 
of very fine fiber (Shade et al., 1990). And the eating cycle will be changed along the age of 
worm. So, the living behavior and growth situation of Callosobruchus maculatus can be 
known by measuring the ultrasonic wave generated by the rupture of fiber. The audio noise of 
natural environment is less likely to have the frequency range of ultrasonic wave. So, as the 
ultrasonic wave penetration technology is used to study the ecology and behavior of 
Callosobruchus maculatus, it has the advantage without destroying the host beans and 
bothering the insets. Devereau et al. (2003) utilizes the above-mentioned concept to carry on 
the study on insect resistance of red bean (Vigna unguiculata). The automatic ultrasonic 
detection system monitors 8 groups of samples in 5 minutes interval alternatively. As for 
single sample, it is considered five-minute sampling is conducted per 35 minutes. And the 
biting behavior of Callosobruchus maculatus can not be known in the disconnected 30 
minutes completely. 
The purpose of this study is to research and develop a set of ultrasonic detection system, 
which can continuously and automatically detect the faint ultrasonic signal generated by the 
insect biting and eating fiber. The system consists of ultrasonic signal amplifying, filtering and 
transferring circuit.     After the transferred signal is input to the computer by the signal 
retrieving card, the biting and eating times can be counted and the data can be stored. After 
the data are analyzed suitably, the activity feature of Callosobruchus maculatus in host bean 
can be observed, the life history can be estimated or the insect resistance of host bean can be 
screened. 
THE FAINT ULTRASONIC SIGNAL DETECTION SYSTEM 
Callosobruchus maculatus belongs to coleoptera family, and its life cycle can be divided 
into four periods (ovum phase, larva phase, pupa phase and adult phase). Each phase is 
about 3-7 days, and the pupa phase is about 7-10 days. The development time is about 29-33 
days from the ovum phase to emergence phase. It stops to eat during the pupa phase, so the 
 4/10
treated by the Schmitt Trigger to become negative square wave. Finally, the inverter transfers 
the biting signal into convenient, simple and countable square wave, which will be received by 
the Counter/Timer card. 
Graphic Control Interface and Database 
The Windows personal computer is used as the main computer of the system. The 
Visual Basic is used to develop the graphic control interface. While the function of [data 
change] key is to accumulate total biting times in 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour or 
24 hours automatically based on the time period requirement of the researcher. Because this 
experiment need long-term automatic detection and record, and 6 sets of ultrasonic 
penetration sensors are used for the detection at the same time, so the data in database is 
very huge, and it is very inconvenient for the data analysis. Thus the function of [data change] 
key will not be limited in 1 minutes as counting and storing unit, it is beneficial for the 
adjustment and control operation of related key experiment. 
VERIFICATION OF SYSTEMATIC EXPERIMENT 
Material 
After the hardware circuit of detection system is set and the software is written, the 
experiment is designed for the systematic evaluation. The experiment and contrast analysis 
are conducted according to the physiological cycles of Callosobruchus maculatus. The seed 
of dry red bean (Vigna angularis) and mung bean (Vigna radiata) is used as the host bean. 
After worm ovum host bean, ultrasonic sensor, detection system and uninterrupted power 
supply are connected and installed, it is placed in the constant temperature environment for 
the experiment. The average temperature is maintained at 30℃, and the humidity is 
controlled at about 38%RH. 
Callosobruchus maculatus is 4c6-4 family, which is fed by red bean in the laboratory. For 
the preparation of host bean with worm ovum, 5 female worms and 30 beans are placed in the 
cultivation dish. Because the habit of Callosobruchus maculatus is to lay an egg on a bean, so 
after Callosobruchus maculatus lays the egg, the bean sample will only have an egg on it. 
A bean with an egg is used, and larva with the same age is used. The arrangement of 
experiment is as follows: 
Group A-- After hatching, it is put in the detection system 4 days after the experiment. 
Group B-- After hatching, it is put in the detection system 4 days after the experiment. 
Group C-- After hatching, it is put in the detection system 4 days after the experiment. 
Group D-- 7 days after hatching, it is put in the detection system at the first day of experiment. 
Group E-- 7 days after hatching, it is put in the detection system at the first day of experiment. 
Group F-- No host bean is put (control group). 
 6/10
Group A and Group B is about 200 times per 5 minutes at the second phase, which is 
significantly lower than that of Devereau et al. But the biting frequency of Group C is about 
500 times per 5 minutes at the second phase. When the biting frequency is observed at the 
third phase, the biting frequency of Group C is much higher than that of Group A and Group B, 
which has the same trend. It is evaluated that the result has close relationship to the sex of 
adult insect. After the experiment is finished, the sex of adult Callosobruchus maculatus is 
analyzed. The result shows that the male insect is in Group A and Group B, and the female 
insect is in Group C. It shows the biting frequency of female is higher than that of male insect 
at each phase before the emergence phase, and it can be determined by the detection 
system of this study. 
The Experiment Result for the Stability of Detection System 
The feasibility evaluation of detection system shows the biting signal of Callosobruchus 
maculatus can be detected correctly. For the result of stability experiment, Figure 5 shows the 
biting frequency of each Group detected by the system. The result of Group A, Group B and 
Group C shows the system can detect the biting signal of Callosobruchus maculatus at each 
phase stably, and the biting signal of each phase can be distinguished clearly. The biting 
frequency of each Group depends on the physiology and sex of Callosobruchus maculatus. 
The result of Group D and Group E also shows the biting signal of Callosobruchus maculatus 
can be detected and stored normally and stably. The peak wrong trigger signal of control 
group (Group F) is 41 times per 5 minutes (Figure 5-F), which depends on the noise of 
experimental environment. These noises include the disturbance of 60Hz AC power, the 
magnetic disturbance of appliances in the laboratory, and the magnetic disturbance of cell 
phone. Figures 7A-E show that the wrong trigger signal of Figure 5-F will not affect the 
determination of biting times at each phase. In order to remove the disturbance of noise 
completely, the signal modulation system proposed in this study can be used to increase the 
disturbance resistant circuit. 
Though the designed system can not remove the noise completely, it can control 
PCI-1780 Counter/Timer card to store and retrieve data correctly, and 6 sets of sensors can 
be detected continuously in 24 hours. The feasibility and stability of system can reach correct 
detection. 
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
The ultrasonic detection system designed in this study can automatically distinguish the 
start point and end point for the first phase, second phase, third phase, fourth phase and adult 
emergence phase of Callosobruchus maculatus through the number of biting signal. The 
finished system can detect 6 sets of sensors in continuous 33 days at the same time. Besides, 
the biting times of Callosobruchus maculatus at each phase has close relationship to the sex 
 8/10
立式個人電腦
Visual Basic 6.0
Microsoft Access 2002資料庫 Counter/Timer卡(PCI-1780) ADAM-3968連接板
A 組
聲射感測器電子電路
B 組
聲射感測器電子電路
C 組
聲射感測器電子電路
D 組
聲射感測器電子電路
E 組
聲射感測器電子電路
F 組
聲射感測器
A E 
Preamplifier
A E 
Preamplifier
A E 
Preamplifier
A E 
Preamplifier
A E 
Preamplifier
A E 
Preamplifier
塑膠盒
塑膠盒
塑膠盒
塑膠盒
塑膠盒
塑膠盒
 
Fig.1 System overview of the ultrasonic monitoring system.  
 
Fig.2 Electronic circuit of the signal conditioning module. 
 
Fig.3 An infested bean is attached onto the ultrasonic sensor with assistance of adherent
