 2
performance even in severe channel 
environments. 
 
III. 文獻探討 
The optimum STE is known to be a 
maximum likelihood sequence estimator 
(MLSE) operated in space-time domain [7]. 
However, the MLSE is notorious for high 
computational complexity and it limits the 
MLSE-like structure in real-world applications. 
The STE performing both beamforming and 
equalization as mentioned previously is what 
researchers consider most. The general structure 
of the STE consists of an antenna array and a 
temporal filter bank [8], [9]. Either a linear 
equalizer or a decision feedback equalizer (DFE) 
can be applied to the structure. Although the 
performance of this structure is satisfactory, its 
computational complexity is quite high. The 
other problem is that when an adaptive 
algorithm is applied, the convergence is slow 
especially operating under a large number of 
antenna elements and a severe fading channel. 
To ease these problems, another structure being 
a hybrid (or cascade) of a spatial filter and a 
temporal filter was proposed for the STE [10], 
[11]. It requires lower computational 
complexity and the convergence is faster, 
without much degradation in performance. 
 
IV. 研究目的 
All STEs mentioned above are 
training-based. In other words, we have to 
transmit training sequences before actually 
using them. It is well-known that transmission 
of training sequences will reduce the bandwidth 
utilization efficiency and may not be always 
possible. In some applications, however, spatial 
information corresponding to a desired user is 
available. For example, a receiver may perform 
direction of arrival (DOA) estimation before 
signal detection. A space division multiple 
access (SDMA) system employed to increase 
system capacity [12]-[15] transmits or receives 
signal from a certain direction only. In these 
cases, it is possible to utilize the a priori spatial 
information and avoid the requirement of 
training sequences. A straightforward idea is to 
use a generalized sidelobe canceller (GSC) [16] 
for CCI suppression and a blind equalizer for 
ISI compensation. Unfortunately, the result of 
this direct cascade is often far from satisfactory.  
For computational complexity 
consideration, the GSC is often implemented 
with an adaptive structure. The 
least-mean-square (LMS) is a well-known and 
widely used adaptive algorithm [17]. For its 
inherent structure, the adaptive GSC with the 
LMS algorithm usually converges slowly. It is 
because of the error signal, which is used in the 
LMS adaptation, consists of the desired signal 
and residual noise components. The 
steady-state error signal is large even in the 
noiseless environment. This large signal 
magnifies the mean-squared error (MSE) 
significantly. To reduce the MSE, the step size, 
a parameter controlling the LMS convergence, 
must be small and it essentially makes the LMS 
converge slowly. In addition to this, the 
adaptive GSC is sensitive to constraint 
mismatch, which is caused by incorrect spatial 
information. In this case, signal cancellation 
phenomenon will occur and the performance of 
the adaptive GSC can be seriously degraded. In 
typical applications, constraint mismatch can 
easily arise due to multipath channels and 
spatial signature errors. 
It is well-known that the DFE can have 
much better performance than the linear 
equalizer in severe fading channels. This 
statement is also true for blind equalization. 
However, the blind DFE is difficult to derive 
and it is rarely reported in the literature. The 
major contribution in this field is from Labat et 
al., who proposed an interesting blind DFE in 
[18]. They used an infinite impulse response 
(IIR) whitening filter cascaded with a blind 
finite impulse response (FIR) linear equalizer in 
the start-up period. After convergence, it 
switches the cascading order of the IIR and FIR 
filters yielding a decision feedback structure. At 
the same time, a decision-directed minimum 
MSE (MMSE) training is initiated. For easy 
reference, we call this blind DFE as the LBDFE 
hereafter. One inherent problem associated with 
the DFE is its error propagation effect and this 
will have even more impact in its adaptive 
implementation. Since the LBDFE uses the 
decision-directed training, it is sensitive to error 
propagation. 
The ultimate goal of this project is to design and 
implement efficient STE schemes dealing with 
 4
help of the channel estimator, we can formulate 
the adaptive DFGSC achieving better CCI 
suppression performance. Also, due to the 
decision feedback operation, the DFGSC can 
have extra robustness against constraint 
mismatch. For temporal processing, with the 
help of the channel estimator, we can formulate 
the channel-aided blind DFE (CBDFE) such 
that it is more stable in ISI compensation. No 
extra training sequence is required for both 
processing. The operation of the DFGSC and 
the CBDFE is presented separately as follows. 
 As shown in the left part of Fig. 1, the 
formation of the DFGSC is similar to the 
conventional GSC except the inclusion of the 
channel estimator and the feedback operation. 
Let the channel estimator hw  have a 
dimension of 1×γ . We first define )(ˆ kb  as 
the input vector of hw , i.e., 
Tkbkbkbk )]1(ˆ)1(ˆ)(ˆ[)(ˆ +−−= γLb . To 
optimize aw  and hw , we propose a new cost 
function as 
}
)(ˆ
)(
][)({E
2
haq ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡−=
k
k
kJ
H
HHH
b
xB
wwxw . (10) 
To understand the operation principles, we first 
consider a simplified scenario that only 
temporal ISI is present. In other words, the 
desired signal and ISI only come from the main 
DOA, i.e., 10 =M . Here, the DFGSC is set to 
have a distortionless constraint. Assuming that 
the decision is correct, i.e., )()(ˆ kbkb = , we 
can solve this problem and obtain the optimum 
aw  and hw  as 
q
1
opta, )( wRBBRBw xx
HH −=        (11) 
q000opth, )]1()1()0([ whhhw
H−= γL . 
              (12) 
The LMS update equations for these weights 
can be written as 
)()()()1( *saaa kekkk vww µ+=+      (13) 
)()(ˆ)()1( *shhh kekkk bww µ+=+     (14) 
where hµ  is the step size for hw , and 
)(ˆ)()()( hss kkkyke
H bw−= . Therefore, the 
DFGSC subtracts the desired signal from the 
error signal and the steady-state )(s ke  consists 
of residual errors only, which can be much 
smaller than the desired signal. As a result, the 
DFGSC can improve the beamforming 
performance, both convergence rate and 
robustness. 
 The output of the DFGSC is fed into the 
CBDFE for equalization. Here, we make use of 
the channel estimator hw  and propose a new 
structure, i.e., the CBDFE, to improve the blind 
DFE performance. We assume that the weights 
solved by the MMA is close to those solved by 
the MMSE criterion. Our approach uses a basic 
principle of the DFE, i.e., the postcursor 
response of the channel convolved with the 
feedforward filter is cancelled by the feedback 
filter. Let fw  and bw  be the feedforward 
and feedback filter weight vectors of a 
conventional DFE. The calculation of optb,w  
can be readily shown to be 
 }{post optf,opth,optb, www ⊗=      (15) 
where ⊗  denotes the convolution operation 
and }{post •  denotes the postcursor-taking 
operation. With reference to (15), we can let 
 )}()({post)( fhb kkk www ⊗= .    (16) 
The difference between this approach and the 
conventional method lies in that only fw  is 
adapted (not both fw  and bw ). From 
simulations, we will see that the feedback filter 
calculated this way is more stable and the 
resultant CBDFE is less sensitive to decision 
errors. 
 
(C) Performance Analysis 
We have shown that the proposed STE is 
robust to two unfavorable phenomena, namely, 
spatial mulitpath propagation and spatial 
signature mismatch, which are frequently 
encountered in array signal processing. Due to 
space limitations, the derivation details and 
analytical results are omitted here, but can be 
found in [19], [20]. 
 
(D) Simulations 
Computer simulations are conducted to 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed 
STE (called DFGSC-CBDFE in this section for 
clarity) and verify our analytic results. For 
comparison, we also consider the hybrid of the 
conventional GSC and the LBDFE (called 
GSC-LBDFE hereafter), and the hybrid of the 
