可供推廣之研發成果資料表
■ 可申請專利 ■ 可技術移轉 日期：96 年 5月 31 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：無電子傳遞媒生物燃料電池應用於厭氧發酵液能源再生
之研究
計畫主持人： 鄭幸雄
計畫編號：NSC95－2221－E－006－176－MY3 學門領域：環境工程
技術/創作名稱 微生物電化學地下水整治牆
發明人/創作人 鄭幸雄
中文：
苯(benzene)、甲苯(toluene)、乙苯(ethylbenzene)、對二甲
苯(xylene) (簡稱 BTEX)與甲基第三丁基醚(methyl tert-butyl
ether, 簡稱 MTBE)普遍存在汽油污染的地下水中。利用微生物電
化學原理以電極為最後電子接受者，可以有效降解上述污染物質且
達到 99%以上去除率。
技術說明
英文：
Some chemical, like bezene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene, and
methyl tert-butyl ether, were the major pollutants which contaminates
the ground water seriously. According to the theory of microbial
electrochemistry, a electrode was employed as the final electron
acceptor for the forementioned compounds bio-degradation, and the
removal efficiency could achieve to over 99%.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
1. 可利用之產業：煉油/貯油產業、環境工程顧問公司
2. 可開發之產品：微生物電化學地下水整治牆(模組化)
技術特點
1. 低操作成本，不需再額外擠注空氣。
2. 高密度污染物降解菌群優質化技術，可快速降解有機碳。
推廣及運用的價值
1. 模組化設備可推廣至各地下水污染場址，進行快速降解，達到
地下水快速復育再利用的目的。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
附件二
anode then generated current. Some studies even reported that the current could be generated
from waste water (Min et al., 2005). The principle of microbial fuel cell is similar to the
conventional hydrogen-oxygen fuel cell. In the operation of microbial fuel cell, the organic
matter is oxidized through the bacterial degradation of organic matter, and the proton and electron
are produced after the anodic oxidation. After the electron and the proton transfer by the external
wire and proton exchange membrane, respectively, the oxygen reducing reaction occurred on the
surface of cathode. The completed electrochemical reaction is constructed by combining these
two half reactions in the fuel cell device. The bacteria would live in the anode and convert an
organic substrate into CO2, protons and electrons. Under aerobic conditions, bacteria use oxygen
as a final electron acceptor to produce water. However, in the anode of a microbial fuel cell, no
oxygen is present and bacteria need to switch from their natural electron acceptor to an insoluble
acceptor, such as the anode. Due to the ability of electrons transfer of bacteria, we can use a
microbial fuel cell to collect the electrons originating from the microbial metabolism. The
electron transfer can occur either via membrane-associated components, soluble electron shuttles
or nano-wires.
To make the electron transport smoothly, one of the concept is to removal the terminal electron
acceptor and enforce the microorganism donate electron to electrode directly. When a
microorganism respiration occurred, the dioxygen would be consumed as the terminal electron
acceptor. However, many other electron acceptors such as nitrate, sulfate, and carbon dioxide,
could be used instead of dioxygen. Among these possible candidates, ferric iron is an electron
acceptor in certain chemoorganotrophic and chemolithotrophic prokayotes. Fe3+ reduction can
be coupled to the oxidation of several organic and inorganic electron donors. Many researches on
the energetics of ferric iron reduction has been done with the gram-negative bacterium
Shewanella putrefaciens, in which Fe3+-dependent anaerobic growth occurs with various organic
electron donors. Other important Fe3+ reducers include Geobacter, Geosprillum, Geovibrio, and
several hyperthermophilic Archaea. (Madigan et al., 2008). Groby et al. (2006) employed some
microscope techniques like scanning tunneling microscope, scanning electron microscope, and
transmission electron microscope to prove that the nanowire-like flagellum of Shewanella
onedensis MR-1 really functions as a conductor between bacterial cell and the electrode. The
same phenomena were found in cyanobacteria (Synechocystis sp.) and hyperthermophilic
anaerobic bacteria (Pelotomaculum sp. and Methanothermobacter sp.). Oppositely, Marsili et al.
(2008) applied eletro-analytical methods and liquid-chromatography to prove the strain
Shewanella sp. MR-4 could secrete some flavin-like mediator to enhance the electron transport
from bacterial cell to electrode.
All the parts of the reactor were autoclaved at 121 oC for 20 min prior to fabricating it. The
whole cell device was connected with a potentiostat (HA-151A, Hokuto Denko, Tokyo, Japan)
and controlled at 0.4 V (versus Ag|AgCl). The response current was recorded using a data
acquisition system (GL800, Graphtec, Yokohama, Japan).
To each reactor, 35 mM of lactate was added as a substrate, and 28 mM of NH4Cl was selectively
added (decided by the experimental conditions) as a nitrogen source. In addition, each
working-electrode chamber in the reactors contained the following chemicals as growth nutrients:
KCl, 80 mM; MgSO4, 1 mM; FeCl3, 0.56 μM;  H3BO3,  0.24 μM; CuSO4, 12 nM; KI, 0.11 μM; 
MnCl2, 61 nM; Na2MoO4, 24.7 nM; ZnSO4, 41.7 nM; CoCl2, 63.1 nM; NiCl2, 8.4 nM. The
medium pH was adjusted to 7.0 using a 1 M KOH solution. The amount of initial inoculated
biomass was about 60 mg-cell L-1 in each electrochemical bioreactor. The headspace of the
working-electrode chamber flushed sterilized-humid ambient air continuously was defined as an
aerobic condition, whereas with sterilized-humid argon defined as an anaerobic condition. All the
batch tests were conducted in a thermostat incubator maintained at 37 oC and neutral pH.
m
e - e-
3.27
Potentiostat
r
w
c
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of an electrochemical bioreactor. w, carbon felt working electrode; c,
Pt wire counter electrode; r, Ag|AgCl|KCl (saturated) reference electrode; m, Nafion N115
membrane.
結果與討論
lactate degradation, the highest removal rate of 96% was also found in AwN. In AnwN and
AnwoN, the lactate removal rates were found to be lower (20.3% and 10%, respectively) than
those in two aerobic conditions. Although the removal rate of 67% in AwoN was relatively high,
the lactate degradation seemed to be ceased after 100 hrs. In all the reliable metabolites, acetate
occupied the largest amounts of electron fraction (about 40%~60% of electron balance) in AwN,
AnwN, and AnowN conditions. However, large amount of pyruvate was only accumulated in
AwoN.
In AnwoN, due to the absence of oxygen reduction and cell growth, there should not be any
unpredictable carbon or electron left. However, there were still 30% of unknown carbon and
electron left, and the molar ratio of unknown e- to unknown C was close to 4:1. That indicates
that the unknown part might be contributed by the experimental error or some unknown
compounds production. In AwoN, the values of unknown carbon were negative, and that indicates
some cell lysis occurring or all the carbons well balanced (less than 5% error left). Due to no cell
growth suggested in AwoN, the 14% of unknown electron was inferred to be lost only by oxygen
reduction. If the CO2 La was considered to be available in AnwN, then following Eqs (7)-(10), the
CO2 La was calculated as a negative value and became unreasonable. Thus, the part of unknown C
in AnwN was totally assumed for biomass synthesis, and the amount was calculated to be 23
mg-cell L-1. The most complicated status was induced in AwN due to oxygen and ammonia both
participated. We supposed that the H2O e- in AwN was the same in AwoN (42 mM), and then after
the calculation, the biomass production was estimated to be 207 mg-cell L-1. In addition, 1.7 mM
of lactate was estimated to be fully oxidized into CO2. However, after these calculations, there are
still 10% fractions of electron left to be unreliable in AnwN and AwN (about 8 mM and 42 mM,
respectively). Meshulam-Simon et al. (2007) reported the hydrogen production capability of
Shewanella sp., and the Shewnaella sp. might also use some oxidized metal ion like Fe(III) or
Mn(IV) as electron acceptors (Nealson and Scott, 2006). Those might provide some possible
reasons of electron loss during the process.
Effects of oxygen and ammonia additions on the change of metabolic pathway in
electrochemical bioreactors
Many factors will affect the current generation. For example, the lactate-degradation rate
will affect the electron uptake/transporting rate of the bacteria, and some electron would be
consumed by the oxygen reduction instead of captured by the electrode in aerobic conditions. To
clarify those effects, all the data including the calculated lactate degradation rates were
summarized in Fig. 4 for an explicit expression.
Some studies found the acetate or the pyruvate would be an early product in the exponential
phases of Shewanella sp. growing (Tang et al., 2007; Tang et al., 2008). Although the acetate
could be utilized as a carbon source and reversibly converted back into acetyl-coA (Tang et al.,
2007), the produced acetate seemed not to be reutilized in all the conditions in this study (Fig.3).
Compared with the metabolites production listed in Table 1, the coulomb efficiency was found to
be decreased when the concentration of pyruvate was increased. Especially in AowN condition,
the concentration of pyruvate was even accumulated to 17.5 mM. On the viewpoint of metabolic
pathway, the pyruvate itself needs the pyruvate dehydrogenase for a further degradation and then
passes into the citric acid cycle. The pyruvate accumulation found in AwoN might be due to the
deactivation of pyruvate dehydrogenase under a nitrogen-source-insufficient condition.
Consequently, the excesses pyruvate would also deactivate the lactate dehydrogenase and then
cease the lactate degradation (Cocaign-Bousquet and Lindley, 1995).
The citric acid cycle activity was only found in AwN according to the number of CO2 La as a
full-oxidizing indicator. A special issue is that the enzyme of citric acid cycle in Shewanella sp.
could be expressed in aerobic or anaerobic condition (Scott and Nealson, 1994), and, undoubtedly,
the citric acid cycle is the most favorable pathway for biochemical energy generation. Even if the
citric acid cycle activity was found, it would also be declined or truncated by the glyoxylate cycle
in anaerobic conditions (Scott and Nealson, 1994; Tang et al., 2007; Tang et al., 2009). That is, if
the citric acid cycle is regulated in a favorable way, it might render a better performance for
electric energy production. In this study, the better citric acid cycle activities and higher charge
production were regulated under sufficient oxygen and nitrogen source condition, but the
electron-competition-effect of oxygen and then lowering the Coulomb efficiency should also be
considered.
Summary
Self-excreted mediator has been found during the culturing of Shewanella sp. NTOU1. According
to the data, the mediator activated as diffusive-type. However, the electrochemical active
compound cannot be detected in the suspended solution. The detail mechanism should be studied
further. The coulomb efficiency in this study is achieved to 0.45%. It is extreme poor than other
studies. The electron flow must be investigated to develop better performance. The self-excreted
mediator will also be investigated by instrument analysis in the future.
von Castein H, Ogawa J, Shimizu S, Lloyd JR. Secretion of flavins by Shewanella species and
their role in extracellular electron transfer. Appl Environ Microbiol 2008;74(3):615-23.
Tang YJ, Meadows AL, Keasling JD. A kinetic model describing Shewanella oneidensis MR-1
growth, substrate consumption, and product secretion. Biotechnol Bioeng 2007;96(1)125-33.
Wang YF, Cheng SS, Tsujimura S, Ikeda T, Kano K. Escherichia coli-catalyzed
bioelectrochemical oxidation of acetate in the presence of mediators. Bioelectrochemistry
2006;69(1):74–81.
Biffinger JC, Byrd JN, Dudley BL, Ringeisen BR. Oxygen exposure promotes fuel diversity for
Shewanella oneidensis microbial fuel cells. Biosens Bioelectron 2008;23(6):820–6.
Chen CH, Chang CF, Ho CH, Tsai TL, Liu SM. Biodegradation of crystal violet by a Shewanella
sp. NTOU1. Chemosphere 2008;72(11):1712–20.
Scott JH, Nealson KH. A biochemical study of the intermediary carbon metabolism of
Shewanella putrefaciens. J Bacteriol 1994;176(11):3408-11.
Tang YJ, Hwang JS, Wemmer DE, Keasling JD. Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 fluxome under
various oxygen conditions. Appl Environ Microbiol 2007;73(3):718–29.
Tang YJ, Martin HG, Dehal PS, Deutschbauer A, Llora X, Meadows A, Arkin A, Keasling JD.
Metabolic flux analysis of Shewanella spp. reveals evolutionary robustness in central carbon
metabolism. Biotechnol Bioeng 2009;102(4):1161-9.
Tang YJ, Meadows AL, Keasling JD. A kinetic model describing Shewanella oneidensis MR-1
growth, substrate consumption, and product secretion. Biotechnol Bioeng 2007;96(1):125-33.
Cocaign-Bousquet M, Lindley ND. Pyruvate overflow and carbon flux within the central
metabolic pathways of Corynebacterium glutamicim during growth on lactate. Enzyme Microb
Technol 1995;17(3):260-7.
本計畫發表之相關期刊、國際/國內研討會論文及學位論文
1. Li SL, Wang YF, Cheng SS, Chang HC, Tsujimura S, Kano K (2008) Bilirubin Oxidase


