 2
MPEG 7 視訊影像系統之軟硬體共同設計 (II) 
“Software/Hardware Codesign for MPEG 7 Video and Image System (II)” 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-024-008 
執行期間：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：高啟洲國立台南大學資訊工程系副教授 
一、 中文摘要 
純以軟體構成的 MPEG-7 視訊或影像
處理架構，無法滿足快速或即時處理的要
求，但硬體實現的系統卻無法在硬體資源使
用上提供彈性。所以軟硬體共同設計是
MPEG 7 視訊影像系統最佳的選擇。 
本計畫為 98 年度計畫之延續。本研究
是針對 MPEG-7 視訊影像系統提供一個可
規劃的硬體架構及高效能的軟體設計之軟
硬體共同設計系統。本年度我們將研發
MPEG-7 3D 視訊影像的演算法，並且整合
實現所發展的軟硬體平台，以驗證是否符合
系統規格與測試系統的效能。 
英文摘要 
A MPEG-7 software implementation 
does not perform fast enough processing. But, 
the MPEG-7 hardware system can not offer 
the flexibility. It is seen that the 
software/hardware co-design platform is the 
most appropriate choice.  
The plan is the extension of the 98 year 
plan. Our research will provide a 
hardware/software co-design in which has 
reconfigurable hardware architecture and a 
high performance software design for MPEG 
7 video system. In this year, a 3D algorithm 
for MPEG 7 video and image system will be 
presented. Moreover, we will integrate and 
develop the software and hardware platform to 
verify and test the system performance in the 
proposed MPEG 7 video and image system. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
MPEG 系列的標準已訂出 MPEG-1 及
MPEG-2 或 MPEG-4 的影音資料格式 [1]。
這些標準主要著重在影音資料的壓縮上，重
點是如何達到高壓縮率，並同時兼顧一定的
畫質和音質。在現在科技發達的世界中，越
來越多的圖片、3D 圖形、聲音或視訊的影
音訊息存在於我們的生活中，對於眾多的影
音訊息，管理並非是容易的事，若是要從中
找尋自己想要或喜歡的訊息，那就更加的困
難了。目前網路搜尋的引擎都是利用文字來
進行搜尋，如果詢問者只知物件的外型或顏
色，便無法進行搜尋。為了克服上述的困
難，MPEG-7 因而發展出一個自動化、以內
容為主的多媒體標記及檢索資料庫系統 
[2-8]，其目的為定義一套多媒體的描述格
式。其應用的範圍並無特定限制，原則上只
要是與影音資訊搜尋比對相關的應用皆可
使用。 
MPEG-7 [9-11]的全名是「多媒體視訊
內 容 描 述 介 面 」 (Multimedia Content 
Description Interface)，它提供了一連串標準
化工具描述多媒體視訊的內容，利用
MPEG-7 定義的格式，使用者可以有效率地
搜尋、過濾和定義想要的影音資料。MPEG-7
所定義的格式包含：靜止影像、圖形、音樂、
動態影像和有關這些元素組成的多媒體，如
臉部描述，個人特徵等，其基本想法是希望
使用很少特徵就可以對多媒體進行檢索。針
 4
文的向量是由一形狀上下文及其旋轉的形
狀上下文相應點得來時。 
最後，我們提出模型比對演算法，以匹
配兩個 3D 的搜索模型。在此步驟中，首先
選擇由先前使用旋轉不變性演算法產生查
詢和檢索的二維圖像。接著，我們順時針由
0 至 360 度每 30 度計算不同角度觀點的距
離，以由資料庫中找出最小可視距離的候選
模型。最後，再計算距離產生-90 到 90 度每
30 度之間計算不同角度觀點的距離，以由
資料庫中找出正確的 3D 模型。 
驗證是否符合系統規格與測試系統的
效能的軟硬體平台則規劃如下。我們利用
CPU 執行高階程式碼及 . 協同處理器
(coprocessors) 或 可 重 複 規 劃 邏 輯
(reconfigurable logic)做低階的計算。我們利
用高階的程式語言(C，C++)和標準軟體開發
工具開發演算法，檢索應用程式的開發可以
完全獨立於協同處理器的設計。圖 2 表示我
們的平臺概觀，低階的硬體運算會以軟體函
式庫(software function libries)的方式提供高
階程式使用。當軟體開發者設計演算法時，
我們的平臺提供函式庫(function libries)來
做低階的運算。設計完成的程式時可以在標
準的處理器上使用標準的編譯工具完成編
譯工作。低階的描述子計算可以使用協同處
理器來加速，方法是將每個函式庫呼叫以協
同處理器的呼叫來替代。 
圖 2. MPEG-7 影像視訊檢索系統平臺概觀 
圖 3 為我們所提出的 MPEG-7 影像視訊
檢索系統的軟硬體介面。高階檢索程式碼在
CPU 上實現， 低階描述子層級的計算也可
以在 CPU 上實現，但若考慮即時系統的應
用上，可以用協同處理器(或運算引擎)來加
速。應用程式介面(Application Programming 
Interface, API)定義了可以被運算引擎加速
的函數，處理器可以透過 API 來呼叫低階描
述子層級計算的硬體加速器。 
圖 3. MPEG-7影像視訊檢索系統平臺的軟
硬體介面 
一般來說，針對不同的低階描述子需要
許多不同的協同處理器，所有的協同處理器
也 可 以 同 時 被 實 現 在 一 個 系 統 晶 片
(System-on-Chip, SoC)上。我們的系統平臺
可以利用平行可規劃計算機硬體使得硬體
資源可以被使用的更有效率。圖 4 顯示我們
的硬體架構將使用平行可規劃計算機 
(parallel reconfigurable computing, PRC) ，包
含一個嵌入的 PowerPC 處理器核心，其中
一個處理器將用於高階的應用程式碼，另外
一個處理器則用於控制和管理函式庫。 
PRC 的可規劃邏輯部分將用於協同處理
器、匯流排，資料輸出入及記憶體介面。在
晶片上的區塊記憶體(On-chip Block RAM)
會配置給協同處理器使用，而運算引擎的載
入或者是替換由配置管理員(configuration 
manager)來控制。 
 
圖 4. MPEG-7 影像視訊檢索系統平臺架構 
移動
 
色彩
 
形狀
 
引擎
 
X
X
X
 
形狀引擎
 
色彩引擎
 
移動引擎
 
處理器
 
處理器
 
協同處理器 設定 
配置管理員
PRC 
程式碼 
編譯器 
記憶體 處理器 運算引
低階計算的軟體函式庫 
協同處理器(coprocessor)
設定 
高階的應用程式碼 (high level 
低階描述子的計算 (operation 
應用程式介面 
處理器 運算引擎
軟體 
硬體 
 6
影像視訊檢索系統。本研究的研究結果，已
發表於重要的研討論文[19]中，並更進一步
將其成果投稿到 SCI 期刊論文中[20-21]，
產生影響深遠的學術成果。 
 
五、參考文獻 
1. International Telecommunication Union, 
http://www.itu.int 
2. International Standarization Organization, 
http://www.iso.ch 
3. G. Aggarwal et al., “An Image Retrieval 
System with Automatic Query 
Modification,” IEEE Trans. on Multimedia, 
vol.4, no.2, pp.201-214, Jun. 2002 
4. J. J. chen and C. Y. Liu, “A Universal 
Query Mechanism for Similarity Retrieval 
Based on Shape Information in Image 
Database,” Proc. IEEE ICASSP 2002, vol. 
3, pp. 3676-3679, May 2002 
5. J. J. Chen et al., “Morphological Shape 
Description and Boosting Similarity 
Retrieval in Image Databases,” CVGIP 
2001, Aug. 2001 
6. Y. Freund et al., “A Decision-theoretic 
Generalization of Online Learning and An 
Application to Boosting,” J. Comp.&Sys. 
Sci., vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 119-139, 1997 
7. V. K. Vutukuru et al., “A Rough Set 
Framework for Eontent Based Image 
Classification and Retrieval,” in Proc. Int 
Conf. Multimedia Process. and Syst., Aug. 
2000 
8. J. Smith and S. Chang, “VisualSEEK: A 
Fully Automated Content-based Image 
Query System,” Proc. ACM MM, MA, 
June 1996 
9. “MPEG, MPEG-7 Overview (version 9),” 
ISO/IECJTC1/SC29/WG11N5525 
10. “MPEG-7: The Generic Multimedia 
Content Description Standard,” IEEE 
Multimedia, pp. 78-87, Apr. 2002 
11. B. S. Manjunath, P. Salembier and T. 
Sikora, “Introduction to MPEG-7,” Wiley, 
2002 
12. D. N. Rakhmatov and S. B. K. Vrudhula, 
“Hardware-software Bipartitioning for 
Dynamically Reconfigurable System,” 
ACM Proc. of the 10th International 
Workshop on Hardware-Software 
Codesign(CODES) pp. 145-150, 2002 
13. K. S. Chatha and R. Vemuri, “An 
Interative Algorithm for 
Hardware-Software Partitioning, Hardware 
Design Space Exploration and 
Scheduling,” Design Automation for 
Embedded System, pp. 281-293, 2000 
14. C. Bobda, “CoreMap: A Rapid Prototyping 
Environment for Distributed 
Reconfigurable Systems,” Proc. of the 13th 
IEEE International Workshop on Rapid 
System Prototyping, 2002 
15. S. M. Loo and B. E. Wells, “Task 
Scheduling in a Finite Resource 
Reconfigurable Hardware/Software 
Codesign Environment,” INFORMS J. of 
Computing, 2003 
16. B. Mei, P. Schaumont, and S. Vernalde, 
“A Hardware-Software Partitioning and 
Scheduling Algorithm for Dynamically 
Reconfigurable Embedded Systems,” Proc. 
of the 11th ProRISC Workshop on Circuits, 
Systems, and Signal Processing, 2000 
17. H. Walder and M. Platzner, “Online 
Scheduling for Block-Partitioned 
Reconfigurable Devices,” ACM Proc. of 
the Design Automation and Test, 
Europ(DATE), pp. 290-295, 2003 
18. Ou, J., Choi, S., and Prasanna, V . K. 
(2004). Energy Efficient 
Hardware/Software Co-Synthesis for a 
Class of Applications on Reconfigurable 
SoCs, International Journal of Embedded 
Systems. Inderscience Publisher, USA. 
Vol. 1, No. 1. 
19. Chi-Chou Kao*, “View Based Rotation 
Invariant 3D Shape Retrieval,” 
International Conference on Remote 
Sensing and Data (ICRSD), pp. 150–155 
(2011 July 2~3, Tsin Shui Wai, New 
Territories, Hong Kong, China). (NSC 
99-2221-E-024-008) 
20. Chi-Chou Kao* and Chao-Feng Tzeng, 
“Fast Intra Prediction Mode Decision for 
H.264/AVC Video Coding,” major revised 
by Imaging Science Journal (IMS), June 
23, 2011. (SCI) 
21. Chi-Chou Kao*, “Shape-Based 3D Model 
Retrieval System,” major revised by 
Computer Animation and Virtual Worlds 
(CAVW), June 3, 2011. (SCI, NSC 
99-2221-E-024-008) 
 8
附錄一 
02-Jun-2011 
Dear Prof. Kao, 
 
Manuscript ID CAVW-11-0009 entitled "Shape-Based 3D Model Retrieval System" which 
you submitted to Computer Animation and Virtual Worlds  has been reviewed.  The 
comments of the referee(s) are included at the bottom of this letter. 
 
A revised version of your manuscript that takes into account the comments of the referee(s) 
will be reconsidered for publication. 
 
You can upload your revised manuscript and submit it through your Author Center. Log 
into http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/cavw   and enter your Author Center, where you will 
find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions". 
 
When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments 
made by the referee(s) in the space provided.  You can use this space to document any 
changes you make to the original manuscript. 
 
IMPORTANT:  Please make sure you closely follow the instructions for acceptable files. 
When submitting (uploading) your revised manuscript, please delete the file(s) that you 
wish to replace and then upload the revised file(s). 
 
Please remember that the publishers will not accept a manuscript unless accompanied by 
the Copyright Transfer Agreement. Please go to: http://www.wiley.com/go/ctapsglobal 
 
The Copyright Transfer Form and the Permissions Form should be scanned and uploaded 
with your submission to Manuscript Central, designated as "Supplementary material not 
for review". If you do not have access to a scanner, further instructions will be provided 
upon the acceptance of your paper. Forms should not be sent to the editorial office. 
 
Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to Computer Animation and Virtual 
Worlds and I look forward to receiving your revision. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Nadia Magnenat-Thalmann 
Daniel Thalmann 
Editors-in-Chief 
CAVW Journal 
 1 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-024-008 
計畫名稱 MPEG 7視訊影像系統之軟硬體共同設計(II)  
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
國立台南大學資訊工程系高啟洲副教授 
會議時間地點 中國香港 天水圍海逸酒店 2011/07/01~04 
會議名稱 2011 International Conference on Remote Sensing and Data (ICRSD 2011) 
發表論文題目 Chi-Chou Kao*, “View Based Rotation Invariant 3D Shape Retrieval” 
 
(一) 出席目的 
目前遙感探測技術日新月異，利用衛星遙測影像、飛機空載航照影像製作
三維飛行模擬實景展示應用技術迅速普及。但在遙測（Remote Sensing）的領域
中，遙測影像具有高成本、高價值、高靈活性及不受時空限制等特性，因此唯
有效利用散落在各地的地理空間資料庫中的遙測影像，才能降低成本、節省資
源及重複利用資源，避免不必要的浪費。本會議主要在探討應用格網的技術整
合來自不同衛星公司的遙測影像資料，進而達到對地表即時監測。 
2011遙感和數據國際會議於 2011年 7月 1-4日在中國香港天水圍海逸酒店
舉行，此會議是遠端感測領域的年度國際會議，所有的專家來自國內外，在會
議中分享在未來遠端感測將實現的新想法和遠見。2天的會議中共包含 3個口報
議程與 3 個專題討論議程。在口報議程中每位學者均有 15 分鐘的口頭發表時
間，包括 12分鐘的學術論文報告和 3分鐘的問題與討論。為了能瞭解並掌握遠
端感測技術及未來研發方向重點，本人特至中國香港參加此會議，除發表相關
 3 
Sensor pose determination (including auxiliary information); 
Projective and multi-view geometry; 
Image sequence analysis; 
Algorithms for including features in the orientation processes; 
Spatial, spectral and temporal properties of natural and human-formed objects.  
Image classification and analysis methodologies  
Analysis of characteristics of multi-spectral, hyperspectral, multi-sensor, Microwave 
and multi-temporal image data for extraction of attribute information  
Methodologies of computer-assisted interpretation and analysis of remotely sensed 
data  
Validation of data and information using laboratory and in-situ methodologies  
Improving atmospheric modeling for radiometric correction  
Multi-source data fusion and integration techniques  
Modeling of satellite data derived parameters  
Global databases and determination of indicators of change for global modeling, 
monitoring and sustainable development  
Integration of remote sensing and GIS techniques  
Aerosol and particulate detection and identification  
 
Image processing, Pattern recognition, Photogrammetry, GIS 
Spectroscopy and forward models 
Retrieval algorithms and inverse problems 
Remote sensing of the atmosphere, oceans, land, and space 
Photogrammetric techniques in industrial design, production and quality control 
processes  
CAD/CAM-based techniques, image engineering  
Fundamentals of spatial database design, spatial data structures, spatial analysis and 
geostatistics, spatial querying, spatial reasoning, spatial and temporal modeling  
Aggregation, generalization, abstraction and rendering of image and vector data  
Spatial decision support systems  
Processing, analysis and modeling of multi-dimensional geospatial data  
System integration and modeling aspects for data and geoinformation processing  
Interoperability of heterogeneous spatial information systems  
Semantic and geometric integration of heterogeneous spatial information  
Communication and visualization of spatial data  
Data mining, filtering, retrieval and dissemination  
Spatial data quality and spatial model quality  
Systems, techniques and applications in cultural heritage recording and 
documentation  
3D object tracking, motion analysis and deformation measurement techniques  
 5 
Land degradation studies  
Process studies  
Natural hazards (floods, landslides)  
Landscape modeling  
Urban Modeling 
Sustainability and planning  
Coastal zone management  
Interaction sea-land  
Resource management.  
 
Geological Applications and Climate 
Lithological and mineral mapping  
Mineral and petroleum exploration  
Structural geology, tectonics  
Geological hazards, mine waste  
Earthquakes and volcanoes  
Hydrology Hydrogeology.  
Quality of water 
Global change, climate and biodiversity 
Sustainable marine ecosystems 
Climate and global change 
Advanced Marine research 
Research on Natural hazards 
Cleaner energy systems 
Renewable energy Systems 
Combined Heat and Power Systems 
Indoor Air Quality in Offices and Houses 
Air pollution and its effects on ecosystems 
Cost reduction and less emission 
 
Urban Planning and Development 
Infrastructures and Urban Areas 
Ecosystems 
3D urban modeling  
Change detection  
Remote sensing for urban information systems  
Microclimate studies  
Virtual city models.  
Environment and sustainable development 
Sustainable management 
 7 
suburbanization in Cenrtal-East Europe on example of Hungary的議題進行專題演
講。在演講中他說明東歐匈牙利現今的遙感探測基礎設施。他也提出許多切實
可行的建議與軟硬體解決方案。第二個是邀請來自 National University, Jinju, 
Korea 的 Prof. Byoung Ryong Jeong 針對 Micropropagation of ornamental and 
medicinal plants的議題進行專題演講。在演講中他對藥用植物生態的遠端觀查作
了簡要介紹，此設計可應用到人類的生活中，特別是飛機空載航照影像製作和
網路車輛等技術問題進行討論。第三個是邀請來自大會的主席 Prof. Saji Baby 針
對 Remotely Sensed Data and Interpretation for Environmental Assessment的議題進
行專題演講。在演講中介紹在無人載具、衛星影像、影像即時監控系統及航空
測量等遙測技術的最新進展及技術。 
本人於 7月 3日上午在會議中發表 “View Based Rotation Invariant 3D Shape 
Retrieval”論文。這一個 section 都是遙測影像技術相關領域的文章，從這一個
section 可以了解現在發展遙測影像技術現況，本人進一步和與會的各位嘉賓互
相切磋討論，希望可將相關技術用於設計MPEG7的軟硬體設計上，以對於本年
度所執行的計畫有所助益，。 
 
攜回資料： 
  2011 International Conference on Remote Sensing and Data會議手冊與論文光
碟。 
retrieval performance than the existing systems. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In 
section II, we outline the proposed 3D model retrieval system. We describe how to represent 3D model by 
2D shapes of various different angles and an efficient rotation invariance algorithm in section III. The 
experimental results are summarized in section IV. Finally, we conclude in section V. 
2. View Based 3D Shape Retrieval 
The proposed 3D shape retrieval framework is shown in Figure 1. To retrieve efficiently 3D models, we 
present a view based method to transform 3D model into 2D shapes of various different angles. To quickly 
and efficiently search for 3D models, an efficient rotation invariance algorithm, which will be described in 
detail in the next section, is proposed before the feature matching step. 
 
 
Fig. 1: 3D shape retrieval framework. 
3D models look different when viewed from different viewpoints. Based on this idea, the space of views 
can be partitioned into view classes. Within each class, the views share a certain property. If two models are 
similar, they should look similar from all viewing angles. Our 3D model retrieval system is based on the 
view based representations that similar 3D models look similar from the same viewpoints. Therefore, a 
number of views (2D projections) of objects could be used to represent the models. The remainder of this 
section will describe the methods in which a number of views of the 3D models are generated for the 
purposes of similarity matching. Let azimuth be a polar angle in the x-y plane with positive angles indicating 
counterclockwise rotation of the viewpoint and elevation be the positive angle or negative angle of the x-z 
plane. According to the definitions, the azimuth ranges between 0° and 360° and the elevation ranges 
between -90° and 90°. Given a 3D model, we take out the 2D shapes from azimuth and elevation per 30°. 
Hence, we will generate 12×6=72 2D shapes from the 3D model. 
To retrieve similar models, we should compute the similarity between models. The similarity is 
evaluated by 72 2D shapes. Let a, b be two 3D models to be compared. The similarity measure is defined as 
follows: 
∑∑
= =
=
6
1
12
1
),(min),(
i k
bikaik IIdbaS  
where Iaik, Ibik are the 2D shapes generated from the view based representation and the distance d is a 
Euclidean distance function that represents the shortest distance along each axis between two points. 
The shape rotation has significant influence on the similarity measure and retrieval performance for 2D 
shape retrieval from 3D models. In the next section, we will present an efficient algorithm for rotation 
invariance. In the algorithm, the rotated shape contexts together are first clustered and then label each cluster 
so that the shape contexts in each cluster have the same label. Using the histogram of label frequencies can 
quickly and efficiently search for similar or rotational shapes. 
3. Rotation-Invariant Algorithm  
In this section, we first describe retrieval by shape contexts to formulate the rotated object matching 
problem. Next, the rotation invariance algorithm based on the k-means clustering method [13] is proposed. 
database 
images 
query 
image  feature 
matching
image 
segmentation 
feature 
extraction 
results 
rotation invariance 
algorithm
view based 
representations
151
vectors should be clustered together and replaced with the same shape label. For this purpose, we propose the 
rotation invariance algorithm as follows. 
First, the absolute distance and representative shape context vector for 2 shape context vector in our log-
polar space: 
For two shape context vectors ( )1 2 60, , ,X x x x= K and ( )1 2 60, , ,Y y y y= K , the absolute distance of X 
and Y is denoted as XYD  and its computation is 
min , 1 12XY iiD X R i= − ≤ ≤ , where 
( )
( )
( )
( )
1 1 2 3 4 5 6 60
2 6 7 8 60 1 2 3 4 5
3 11 12 13 5 6 7 8 9 10
12 56 57 58 59 60 53 54 55
, , , , , , ,
, , , , , , , , ,
, , , , , , , , ,
, , , , , , , ,
R Y y y y y y y y
R y y y y y y y y y
R y y y y y y y y y
R y y y y y y y y
= =
=
=
=
K
K
K
M
K
 
The representative shape context vector is denoted as Y′ and defined as 
arg min , 1 12
i
iR
Y X R i′ = − ≤ ≤  
We use the absolute distance of two shape context vectors to measure the similarity of their shape 
context. The smaller the absolute distance, the more similar the two shape contexts are. We can see the 
absolute distance will be zero for two shape context vectors when their shape contexts are derived from 
corresponding points of a shape and its rotation. The steps for the rotation invariance algorithm are further 
described as follows. 
Step 1: When there are N shape contexts in the database, the user decide the number of clusters, k. 
Step 2: Select k shape contexts arbitrarily, and consider them as the centroid of each cluster. 
Step 3: Use our proposed method to calculate the distance between each shape context and the centroid. 
That is, fixing the vector of centroid and rotating the vector of shape context by a multiple of a constant. 
Compute the minimum distance between rotated vectors and centroid, and record the rotated vector which is 
minimal. 
Step 4: Group shape contexts according to the minimal distance. Compute the shape context which is 
closest to the centroid and include it into the group. 
Step 5: If a shape context switches its cluster in step 4, update the centroid of the cluster: 
group
, 1i
Y i
C Y i k
′∈
′= ≤ ≤∑  
Step 6: Repeat step 3, step 4 and step 5 until all of them are optimally clustered. 
4. Experimental Results 
Up to now, we are incapable of proving theoretically that there is a shape 3D model retrieval system is 
optimal. The most comprehensive comparative study of retrieval algorithms for 3D models is based on the 
now well-known Princeton Shape Benchmark [14]. The test set of the Princeton Shape Benchmark database 
contains 907 3D models in 92 categories. We retrieve the most similar 3D models for each query 3D model 
from the set by using the proposed 3D retrieval framework. 
The average precision versus recall [15] is used to measure the retrieval performance in this experiment. 
We have compared the existing visual similarity system [16] with rotation invariance and without rotation 
3D models in the proposed system as shown in Figure 2. The experimental results have shown that our 
system is effective and has better retrieval results than the existing systems.  
5. Conclusions 
In this paper, a 3D model retrieval system based on viewpoint representation is proposed. In this system, 
the view based approach is robust against rotation. The proposed rotational-invariant algorithm is adopted in 
the vector quantization process of shape contexts for the image database and groups similar shape contexts of 
images in the same cluster whether images are rotated or not. Therefore, the similar shapes will have some 
153
[15] R. Baeza-Yates and B. Ribeiro-Neto, Modern Information Retrieval. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, 1999. 
[16] Ding-Yun Chen, Xiao-Pei Tian, Yu-Te Shen, and Ming Ouhyoung, “On Visual Similarity Based 3D Model 
Retrieval,” Computer Graphics Forum, vol. 22, Issue 3, pp. 223–232, 2003.  
155
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：高啟洲 計畫編號：99-2221-E-024-008- 
計畫名稱：MPEG 7 視訊影像系統之軟硬體共同設計(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
