year has been aimed at (i) the effects of s-CSR, which 
has been synthesized by RAFT living free-radical 
emulsion polymerizations, on the curing behavior and 
properties of VER and epoxy resins, and (ii) the 
controlled synthesis of inorganic/organic core-shell 
particles (s-CSP) by RAFT living free-radical solution 
polymerizations using silica nano-particles，which 
were synthesized by hydrolysis of elemental silicon, 
as the core.  Our effort for the third year research 
has been focused on the effects of s-CSP on the curing 
behavior and properties of VER and epoxy resins. 
 
 
 2 
Table of Contents 
                     Page 
Chinese Abstract                5 
English Abstract                5 
1.   Introduction                6 
2.   Experimental                7 
2.1   First Year                7 
2.1.1 Synthesis of general-purpose core-shell rubber additives by conventional emulsion 
polymerizations               7 
2.1.2 UP, vinyl ester, and epoxy resins            7 
2.1.3 Preparations of sample solutions and cure conditions        7 
2.1.4 Characterization and property measurements         8 
2.1.5 Synthesis of core-shell rubber (CSR) additives by reversible addition-fragmentation 
chain transfer (RAFT) emulsion polymerizations        8 
2.2   Second Year                8 
2.2.1 Synthesis of specialized nano-scale core-shell rubber (s-CSR) additives by reversible 
addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) emulsion polymerizations    8 
2.2.2 UP, vinyl ester, and epoxy resins            9 
2.2.3 Preparations of sample solutions and cure conditions        9 
2.2.4 Characterization and property measurements         9 
2.2.5 Synthesis of colloidal silica nanoparticles via hydrolysis of elemental silicon   9 
2.2.6 Synthesis of polymer-grafted silica nanoparticles by reversible addition-fragmentation 
 chain transfer (RAFT) solution polymerizations        10 
2.3   Third Year                10 
2.3.1 Synthesis of colloidal silica nanoparticles via hydrolysis of elemental silicon   10 
2.3.2 Synthesis of polymer-grafted silica nanoparticles by reversible addition-fragmentation 
 chain transfer (RAFT) solution polymerizations        10 
2.3.3 Chain extension polymerization to synthesize diblock copolymer-silica hybrids   10 
2.3.4 Synthesis of core-shell rubber additives of MA-Gx type by conventional emulsion 
polymerizations               11 
2.3.5 UP, vinyl ester, and epoxy resins            11 
2.3.6 Preparations of sample solutions and cure conditions        11 
2.3.7 Characterization and property measurements         11 
3.   Results and Discussion              11 
3.1   First Year                11 
3.1.1 Compatibility of styrene/VER/CSR systems         11 
3.1.2 Relationship between morphologies and mechanical properties – the Takayanagi models 12 
3.1.3 Volume shrinkage for St/VER/gp-CSR systems         13 
3.1.4 Volume shrinkage for Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR systems        13 
3.1.5 Glass transition temperatures for Epoxy/DDM/CSR and Epoxy/DDS/CSR systems by 
DMA                 14 
3.1.6 Mechanical properties for St/VER/gp-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR systems   14 
3.2   Second Year                14 
3.2.1 Compatibility of styrene/VER/s-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/s-CSR systems    14 
3.2.2 Volume shrinkage for St/VER/s-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/s-CSR systems    15 
3.3   Third Year                16 
3.3.1 Synthesis of Si-PMA from commercial silica particles and their effects on properties of 
 UP and VER resins              16 
3.3.1.1 Si-PMA synthesis and properties of Si-PMA         16 
3.3.1.2 Compatibility of St/UP/Si-PMA and St/VER/Si-PMA systems      17 
 4 
Page 
4.3.7.1 Cured sample morphology for neat St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems by SEM  33 
4.3.7.2 DSC cure kinetics for neat St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems      33 
4.3.7.3 Glass transition temperature for neat St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems as measured 
 by DMA                  34 
4.3.7.4 Mechanical properties for neat St/VER and Epoxy/DDM cured systems    34 
5.    Self Evaluation of the Project            34 
6.    References                35 
7.    Tables and Figures              36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
controlled architectures. 
The research for the first year has been aimed at (i) the synthesis of general-purpose 
nano-scale core-shell rubbers (gp-CSR) by conventional emulsion polymerizations and their effects 
on the curing behavior and properties of VER and epoxy resins, and (ii) the controlled synthesis of 
specialized nano-scale core-shell rubbers (s-CSR) by RAFT living free-radical polymerizations. The 
research for the second year has been aimed at (i) the effects of s-CSR, which has been synthesized 
by RAFT living free-radical emulsion polymerizations, on the curing behavior and properties of 
VER and epoxy resins, and (ii) the controlled synthesis of inorganic/organic core-shell particles 
(s-CSP) by RAFT living free-radical solution polymerizations using silica nano-particles，which 
were synthesized by hydrolysis of elemental silicon, as the core.  Our effort for the third year 
research has been focused on the effects of s-CSP on the curing behavior and properties of VER 
and epoxy resins. 
 
Key words: vinyl ester resin (VER); epoxy resin; living free-radical polymerization by reversible 
addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT); emulsion polymerization; nano-scale core-shell 
rubbers (CSR); inorganic/organic core-shell particles (CSP); silica nanoparticles (SNP); volume 
shrinkage control; toughening; curing 
 
1. Introduction 
The large volume shrinkage of unsaturated polyester resins (UP) during the cure, typically 
ranging from 7-10%
1
, is due to the extensive intramolecular or cyclization reactions of UP 
molecules and the formation of compact microgel structures
2
 during the cure.  Adding specific 
thermoplastic polymers as low profile additives (LPA) in the UP can lead to a reduction or even 
elimination of the polymerization shrinkage during the cure
3
.  However, low-profile polyester 
molding compounds when formulated with pigments may usually exhibit an unacceptable hazing of 
the pigment's color.  For the past 15 years, unique non-reactive
4
 and reactive
5
 LPAs for high 
temperature applications have been developed that give significantly improved deep color 
pigmentation while maintaining a smooth surface and zero shrinkage, yet the fundamental principle 
has not been treated until lately
6-7
.  By employing non-reactive LPA
6
, microvoids
8
 can be 
generated during the cure, which can then compensate for the volume shrinkage.  In contrast, by 
employing reactive LPA
7
, the intrinsic polymerization shrinkage may be reduced, which is due to 
the reduction in cyclization reaction of UP resin during the cure caused by the favorable 
intermolecular crosslinking reaction between UP and reactive LPA. 
For special additives of unsaturated polyester resins (UP), such as core-shell rubbers (CSR)
9
, 
their outer polymer shells are usually synthesized by conventional polymerization methods, where 
well-defined polymer chains would not be easily prepared to better control the physical and 
mechanical properties of the cured resins.  In recent years, controlled radical polymerization
10
, 
such as reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization
11-12
, have been 
widely applied to synthesize well-defined polymers with controlled molecular weight, low 
polydispersity, and controlled chain-end functionality  due to its tolerance to a wide range of 
reaction conditions, the straightforward setup to result in a block copolymer, and its versatility 
toward the range of monomers with variable functionality
13-14
. 
The objective of the first-year project is to investigate the effects of general-purpose 
nano-scale core-shell rubber (gp-CSR) as an LPA, which was synthesized by conventional emulsion 
polymerizations, on the volume shrinkage characteristics and internal pigmentability for styrene 
 8 
2.1.4 Characterization and property measurements 
The compatibility of St/UP/CSR, St/VER/CSR, EP/DDM/CSR, EP/DDS/CSR systems at 
25
o
C (for UP and VER systems), 80
o
C (for EP/DDM systems), and  95
o
C (for EP/DDS systems) 
prior to reaction
21
, cure kinetics of the ternary systems by DSC
22
, cured sample morphology for the 
fractured surface by SEM
23
, cured sample morphology by TEM
9
, and glass transition temperatures 
by DMA have been investigated.  Volume shrinkage and color depth
4
 of the cured sample were 
measured by density methods
23
 and by using a chromameter (Minolta, CR-300) respectively. 
2.1.5 Synthesis of core-shell rubber (CSR) additives by reversible addition-fragmentation chain 
transfer (RAFT) emulsion polymerizations 
The CSR, with poly(butyl acrylate) (PBA) as the core and poly(styrene-co-acrylic acid) (SAA) 
as the shell, was synthesized by emulsifier-free controlled free-radical emulsion polymerization of 
styrene via RAFT using dibenzyltrithiocarbonate (DBTTC) as a chain transfer agent and acrylic 
acid as an ionogenic comonomer and involving both batch and spontaneous phase inversion 
processs.
 24
 
First, DBTTC was synthesized according to literature
24
.  In the spontaneous phase inversion 
process, the polymerizations took place in two different steps.  The first step was a bulk 
copolymerization at 60
o
C of styrene and acrylic acid with DBTTC as a RAFT agent and AIBN 
(2,2‟-azobisisobutyronitrile) as an initiator, where 75.0 g of styrene (0.721 mol) and 25.0 g of 
acrylic acid (0.347 mol; 0.325 molar fraction in the comonomer feed) with 0.16 g (9.8 x 10
-4
 mol) 
of AIBN initiator were placed in the five-neck glass vessel reactor with 2.9 g of the 
dibenzyltrithiocarbonate RAFT agent (0.010 mol; target Mn = 10300 g mol
-1
).  The whole system 
was heated to 60
o
C for 6h, to reach 54% conversion. 
In the second step, the polymerization medium was cooled to room temperature and a 
concentrated aqueous solution containing the sodium hydroxide in equimolar amount with respect 
to the acid groups was slowly introduced.  The system was left under stirring for a while to ensure 
its homogenization.  Then, the remaining part of water was added progressively (755 g, i.e. 12.8 
wt% targeted solids content).  Initially the viscosity of the system built up and a gel was obtained.  
The rate of water addition was reduced to dilute the gel without too much heterogeneity in the flow, 
at a stirring speed of 30 rpm.  In the end a transparent, yellow colored liquid was obtained.  The 
system was heated again for 12h at 60
o
C until complete conversion (94%).  Such final dispersion 
can be used as a seed for further chain extension by n-butyl acrylate leading to 100% conversion 
within 1 h, where the size of the final product would be 180 nm according to the literature
24
. 
As of July 31, 2009, the synthesis of final dispersion of the submicron-scale and nano-scale 
SAA latex had been completed.  The further chain extension by styrene and n-butyl acrylate to 
obtain the SAA and PBA-SAA type of CSR, respectively, had also been performed,  the size of 
which, however, ranged from 175-210 nm with a submicron size in diameter, which is the same as 
that reported in the literature
24
.  Table 3 summarizes the experimental conditions for the 
surfactant-free, batch emulsion polymerizations of styrene in the presence of acrylic acid at 60
o
C.  
Table 4 shows the experimental conditions for the synthesis of poly(styrene-co-acrylic acid) 
dispersion as the seed for subsequent preparation of the SAA and PBA-SAA type of CSR.  Table 5 
displays emulsifier-free seeded emulsion polymerizations using a spontaneous phase inversion 
process: chain extension with styrene and n-butyl acrylate of the poly(styrene-co-acrylic acid) 
dispersion E5 at 60
o
C and alkaline pH.  Table 6 shows characteristics of the copolymers and 
latexes.  The results in Table 3 to 6 had been obtained as planned in the first-year project
25
. 
 
2.2 Second Year 
2.2.1 Synthesis of specialized nano-scale core-shell rubber (s-CSR) additives by reversible 
addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) emulsion polymerizations 
 10 
2.2.6 Synthesis of polymer-grafted silica nanoparticles by reversible addition-fragmentation chain 
transfer (RAFT) solution polymerizations
13-14
 
Self-synthesized silica nanoparticles were boiled in 6M HCl at 90
o
C for 24hr, washed with 
distilled water and acetone, and dried under vacuum at 60
o
C overnight
13
.  
3-(benzylsulfanylthiocarbonylsulfanyl) propionic acid (BSPA)
28
 were synthesized and purified 
according to literature methods. 
The synthesis of polymer-grafted silica particles, namely, inorganic/organic core-shell 
particle (CSP) employed as low-profile additives (LPA) for low-shrink unsaturated polyester (UP), 
vinyl ester resins (VER), and epoxy (EP), were synthesized by Z-supported RAFT 
polymerizations
13-14 
.  In this work, the following key steps
13-14,29-30
 were involved: (i) synthesis of 
BSPA-grafted silica particles (Si-BSPA), where silica was reacted with 
4-(chloromethyl)phenyltrimethoxysilane to produce benzyl chloride functionalized silica (Si-Cl) 
first, followed by reacting with BSPA to make the Si-BSPA , (ii) RFAT solution polymerization of 
methyl acrylate mediated by Si-BSPA at 60
o
C for 18-21 hr, with or without adding free BSPA in the 
reacting mixtures, and (iii) aminolysis to cleave the grafted polymer chains on the silica gel for the 
characterization of molecular weight and molecular weight distribution by GPC, and (iv) structure 
characterization of BSPA, Si-Cl, Si-BSPA, Si-poly(methyl acrylate) (i.e. Si-PMA) by FTIR, H
1
 
NMR, C
13
 NMR, GPC, TGA, EA, and DSC. 
The synthesis conditions and properties of Si-PMA, employed as CSP additive for UP, VE, 
and EP resins for a similar work
29-30
 , where commercial fumed silica particle with a size of 5-15 
nm was employed, to this study, are summarized in Table 11.  The loading and grafting properties 
of Si-Cl, Si-BSPA, and Si-PMA on solid surface of silica gel particles are listed in Table 12, 
revealing a loading in active sites of 0.40 mmole of CTA/g of solid (GSi-BSPA), corresponding to a 
grafting density of 0.38 molecule of CTA/nm
2
 (Gd).  The weight grafting ratio of PMA grafted 
silica particles, Gr(%), determined by TGA was 7.82 g PMA/100 g of silica. 
As of July 31, 2010, the synthesis of 15 nm Si-PMA (i.e. Si-PMA15nm) and 30 nm Si-PMA 
(i.e. Si-PMA30nm) using the self-synthesized of silica nanoparticle in our laboratory had been 
completed
31
.  Table 13 shows TGA results for the 15 nm and 30 nm size of silica particles grafted 
with benzyl chloride, BSPA, and poly(methyl acrylate) (PMA).  Table 14 displays the loading and 
grafting efficiency of Si-Cl and Si-BSPA for the 15 nm and 30 nm size of silica particles.  Table 
15 shows polymerization results for RAFT graft polymerization mediated by Si-BSPA in the 
presence of free CTA (BSPA).  
 
2.3 Third Year 
2.3.1 Synthesis of colloidal silica nanoparticles via hydrolysis of elemental silicon 
The synthesis procedures have been described in section 2.2.5.  For the third-year research 
project, the size and size distribution of colloidal silica synthesized after the nucleation and the 
subsequent five growths are displayed in Table 16
32
. 
2.3.2 Synthesis of polymer-grafted silica nanoparticles by reversible addition-fragmentation chain 
transfer (RAFT) solution polymerizations 
The synthesis procedures for polymer-grafted silica particles, Si-PMA, have been described 
in section 2.2.6.  For the third-year research project, the synthesis of 15 nm Si-PMA (i.e. 
Si-PMA15nm) and 30 nm Si-PMA (i.e. Si-PMA30nm) using the self-synthesized of silica 
nanoparticle in our laboratory has also been completed
32
.  Table 17 shows TGA results for the 15 
nm and 30 nm size of silica particles grafted with benzyl chloride, BSPA, and poly(methyl acrylate) 
(PMA).  Table 18 displays the loading and grafting efficiency of Si-Cl and Si-BSPA for the 15 nm 
and 30 nm size of silica particles.  Table 19 shows polymerization results for RAFT graft 
polymerization mediated by Si-BSPA in the presence of free CTA (BSPA).  
2.3.3 Chain extension polymerization to synthesize diblock copolymer-silica hybrids
13,29,32
 
 12 
Data in Table 22 reveal that the St/VER/CSR system containing G2 type of CSR would 
theoretically be the least compatible (|‟VER - ‟Shell of CSR| = 0.0119), followed by the G1-CSR 
system (|‟VER - ‟Shell of CSR| = 0.0112),  and the G0-CSR system would be the most compatible 
(|‟VER - ‟Shell of CSR| = 0.0105).  This is generally in agreement with the static phase characteristics 
data for the uncured St/VER/gp-CSR systems at 110
o
C (Table 23), where the phase separation time 
for G2-30 CSR system was the shortest, followed by the G1-30 CSR and G0-30 CSR systems. 
During the cure at 110
o
C for the eighteen St/VER/CSR systems, SEM micrographs (Figures 
1-3) show that a two phase microstructure, consisting of a major continuous phase of 
styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester and a CSR-rich dispersed phase, would result. 
For the St/VER/G0-CSR ternary systems (Fig. 1),  at a fixed particle size of G0-CSR at 
either 30 nm (i.e. G0-30, Fig. 1(a)-(b)) or 240 nm (i.e. G0-240, Fig. 1(e)-(f)), the system containing 
10 wt% CSR would be more incompatible than that of  5 wt% CSR, whereas the trend was 
reversed for the G0-60 system (Fig. 1(c)-(d)).  At a fixed CSR content at either 5 wt% or 10 wt%, 
the compatibility of the St/VER/G0-CSR system was decreased as the CSR size added was 
increased from 30nm, to 60 nm, and to 240 nm. (cf. Fig. 1(a), (c), and (e); cf. Fig. 1(b), (d), and (f)) 
For the St/VER/G1-CSR ternary systems (Fig. 2), irrespective of the CSR size, the system 
containing 10 wt% CSR would be more incompatible than that of  5 wt% CSR.  At a fixed CSR 
content at either 5 wt% or 10 wt%, the compatibility of the St/VER/G1-CSR system was decreased 
as the CSR size added was increased from 30nm to 60 nm.  Further increasing the CSR size to 240 
nm would lead to an increase in the compatibility of the ternary system during the cure, which is 
due to the increase of viscosity of the ternary system and the concomitant slower rate of phase 
separation during the cure. (cf. Fig. 2(a), (c), and (e); cf. Fig. 2(b), (d), and (f)) 
For the St/VER/G2-CSR ternary systems (Fig. 3), irrespective of the CSR size, the system 
containing 10 wt% CSR would be more compatible than that of  5 wt% CSR, which is in contrast 
to the G1-CSR systems in Fig. 2.  At a fixed CSR content at either 5 wt% or 10 wt%, the 
compatibility of the St/VER/G2-CSR system was increased as the CSR size added was increased 
from 30nm to 60 nm, which is due to the increase of viscosity of the ternary system and the 
concomitant slower rate of phase separation during the cure.  Further increasing the CSR size to 
240 nm would lead to a decrease in the compatibility of the ternary system during the cure. (cf. Fig. 
3(a), (c), and (e); cf. Fig. 3(b), (d), and (f)) 
For the three 5% G-60 CSR systems (Figs. 1(c), 2(c), and 3(c)) the compatibility showed an 
increase and then a decrease as the CSR-containing ternary system was changed from G0-CSR, 
G1-CSR, and G2-CSR.  For all the other fifteen systems, at fixed concentration and size of CSR 
added, the higher concentration of GMA introduced in the shell of CSR would lead to the less 
compatibility of St/VER/CSR system during the cure.  (i.e. the G2-CSR system < the G1-CSR 
system < the G0-CSR system with an increasing order of compatibility) 
 
3.1.2 Relationship between morphologies and mechanical properties – the Takayanagi models 
For the cured CSR-containing VER systems with their characteristic morphologies as shown 
in Figs. 1-3, their mechanical behavior can be approximately represented by the Takayanagi 
models
36-38
, where arrays of weak LPA (R) and stiff styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester (P) phases are 
indicated (see Figure 4).  The subscripts 1, 2, and 3 for P phases are employed due to the 
distinction of styrene and VER compositions as a result of phase separation during cure, and the 
quantities λ, φ, ξ, and  or their indicated multiplications indicate volume fractions of each phase.   
For all of the eighteen St/VER/CSR systems, the two-phase microstructure (Figs. 1-3) 
consisted of a flake-like continuous phase of styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester (phase P1) and a 
globule CSR-dispersed phase (i.e., the hole left behind due to the solvent extraction, the globule 
morphology of which prior to the solvent extraction can be represented by a P-P-S model).  For the 
CSR-dispersed phase, the microgel particles (phase P2) would be segregated by CSR (Phase R).  
Between the CSR-segregated microgel particles, there would be some other microgel particles 
 14 
microgel structures, and even an expansion in volume change after the cure could be observed for 
10 wt% G2-240 system. 
 
3.1.4 Volume shrinkage for Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR systems 
The volume shrinkage of the neat Epoxy/DDM was about 2.4%, while adding 5 or 10 wt % 
different CSRs, such as  G-30, G-60, and G-240, can reduce the volume shrinkage to the range of 
-3.8% (volume expansion) to 0.85%  (Table 25).  Data in Table 25 show that a higher 
concentration of CSR would lead to a lower volume shrinkage.  Also, adding 10wt% of G0-30 or 
10 wt% of G0-60 could result in a volume expansion as high as 3.8%.  SEM (Figures 6-7) and 
TEM (Figure 8-9) micrographs for the 10 wt% G0-30 and the 10 wt% G0-60 systems revealed good 
segregrating effects of CSR on microgel structures, as depicted in Fig. 5, which would be favorable 
in the reduction of polymerization volume shrinkage during the cure and could even lead to a 
volume expension.  The white spots in the TEM micrographs (Figs. 8-9) were due to the 
microvoids generated during the cure, which could verify the relief of the polymerization shrinkage 
force caused by the rubbery core of the CSR as mentioned earlier.   
 
3.1.5 Glass transition temperatures for Epoxy/DDM/CSR and Epoxy/DDS/CSR systems by DMA 
The glass transition temperature (Tg) for the cured epoxy systems would reach the maximum 
as the equivalent ratio of epoxy and curing agent (DDM or DDS in this work) was equal to 1.  
Either positive or negative deviation of the equivalent ratio from 1 could result in a decrease of Tg. 
(Tables 26 and 29)  For Epoxy/DDM/CSR ternary systems, adding CSR would generally decrease 
the Tg of the cured matrix. (Tables 27 and 28) 
 
3.1.6 Mechanical properties for St/VER/gp-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR systems 
The mechanical properties
40
 for St/VER/gp-CSR systems are shown in Figures 10-12, and 
those for Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR systems are displayed in Figures 13-15.  In general, the addition of 
nano-scale gp-CSR (30 nm and 60 nm) and the submicron (240 nm) gp-CSR in this work would not 
be able to enhance the impact strength, Young‟s modulus, and tensile strength for the St/VER and 
Epoxy/DDM systems although most of the gp-CSR used in this work may effectively reduce the 
volume shrinkage during the cure.  Further research in this aspect has been devoted to in the 
second-year and third-year of the research project. 
 
3.2 Second Year 
3.2.1 Compatibility of styrene/VER/s-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/s-CSR systems 
The nano-scale living CSR (i.e. s-CSR) used in this work is displayed in Table 30.  The 
molecular polarity of vinyl ester (VE), epoxy/DDM resin (at ER = 1/1) and the shell of s-CSR was 
evaluated in terms of the calculated dipole moment per unit volume
18,26
, /V1/2 (Table 31).  It was 
the highest for the epoxy/DDM resin, followed by VE, and the shell polymer of the CSR (i.e. 
poly(styrene-co-acrylic acid)) (0.0663 vs. 0.0618 vs. 0.0432). 
In general, the higher the polarity difference per unit volume between the resin matrix and the 
shell of CSR, the less compatibility for the St/VER/CSR and the Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems prior to 
reaction.  Data in Table 31 reveal that the Epoxy/DDM/CSR system containing E7-15nm type of 
CSR would theoretically be less compatible (|‟EPR/DDM - ‟Shell of CSR| = 0.0231) than the 
St/VER/CSR system containing E7-15nm (|‟VER - ‟Shell of CSR| = 0.0186).  This, however, cannot 
be verified by the static phase characteristics data for the uncured St/VER/CSR system at 25
o
C and 
 16 
compatible and the 10% CSR system too incompatible during the cure.  In general, some phase 
separation during the cure would be indispensable in order to have a good volume shrinkage 
control. 
In contrast, the volume shrinkage of the neat Epoxy/DDM was about 2.8%.  Adding 5 wt % 
E7-15nm type of CSR could not lead to an appreciable reduction in the volume shrinkage (Table 
33), which is due to too much phase separation during the cure of Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems as 
revealed by the SEM and TEM micrographs. (cf Fig. 17(b) , Fig. 19(b) and Table 33)  However, 
adding 10 wt % E7-15nm type of CSR could result in a much better volume shrinkage control 
(-ΔV/V0 = 0.7 %). 
Our experimental results (Table 33) also showed that for the Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems, 
adding 5 or 10 % of E7-60nm or E7-100nm type of CSR with 60 nm or 100 nm in size could not 
reduce the volume shrinkage.  For the 10% E7-60 and the 5% E7-100 systems, the fractional 
volume shrinkage was about two times as large as that for the neat epoxy system (i.e. 4.7-4.9% vs. 
2.8%).  It would be due to the severe phase separation during the cure, leading to a higher ER 
value at the major continuous phase (i.e. P1 phase in Fig. 4(b)), and , in turn, a greater volume 
shrinkage.  Indeed, Figure 21 shows that as the equivalent ratio (ER) of epoxy to DDM is 1.75, the 
fractional volume shrinkage may reach 4.8% for the neat epoxy/DDM system after the cure.     
For the Epoxy/DDM/10% E7-15nm system, the CSR could be uniformly dispersed among the 
resin matrix during the cure, as shown by TEM micrograph (Fig. 19(d)).  This would be favorable 
for the reduction of cyclization reaction for Epoxy/DDM during the cure, and the microgel structure 
(Figure 20) during the cure would be less compact due to the more segregating effects of CSR on 
microgel structures, and, in turn, be favorable for the decrease of intrinsic polymerization shrinkage 
after the cure. (also see Fig. 5)  In addition, the relief of the polymerization shrinkage force caused 
by the rubbery core of the CSR may lead to the much less compact microgel structures, and can 
result in a good volume shrinkage control. 
 
3.3 Third Year 
3.3.1 Synthesis of Si-PMA from commercial silica particles and their effects on properties of UP 
and VER resins 
 
3.3.1.1 Si-PMA synthesis and properties of Si-PMA 
Two different commercial silica gel particles (Acros), one with particle size of 35-70 m and 
a specific surface area of 500 m
2
/g and the other with particle size of 5-15 nm and a specific surface 
area of 640 m
2
/g, have been employed in this study.  These two silicas were boiled in 6M HCl at 
90
o
C for 24hr, washed with distilled water and acetone, and dried under vacuum at 60
o
C 
overnight
13
.  3-(benzylsulfanylthiocarbonylsulfanyl) propionic acid (BSPA)
28
 were synthesized and 
purified according to literature methods. 
As mentioned earlier, the synthesis of polymer-grafted silica particles, namely, 
inorganic/organic core-shell particle (CSP) employed as low-profile additives (LPA) for low-shrink 
unsaturated polyester (UP) and vinyl ester resins (VER), were synthesized by Z-supported RAFT 
polymerizations
13-14 
.  In this work, the following key steps
13-14,29-32
 were involved: (i) synthesis of 
BSPA-grafted silica particles (Si-BSPA), where silica was reacted with 
4-(chloromethyl)phenyltrimethoxysilane to produce benzyl chloride functionalized silica (Si-Cl) 
first, followed by reacting with BSPA to make the Si-BSPA , (ii) RFAT solution polymerization of 
methyl  acrylate mediated by Si-BSPA at 60
o
C for 18-21 hr, with or without adding free BSPA in 
the reacting mixtures, and (iii) aminolysis to cleave the grafted polymer chains on the silica gel for 
the characterization of molecular weight and molecular weight distribution by GPC, and (iv) 
 18 
either increase or reduce the volume shrinkage depending on the difference of molecular polarity 
between the resin matrix and the shell polymer of the CSP (Table 36).  At 1 wt% of  the 
nano-CSP (i.e. 5-15 nm size of Si-poly(methyl acrylate), namely, Si-PMA1-15nm), as the molecular 
polarity difference between the resin matrix and the shell polymer of CSP increased, the fractional 
volume shrinkage was generally decreased, followed by an increase, and reached a minimum of 
5.9% at a polarity difference of 0.0067 debye/cm
3/2 
for the MA-PG type of UP, system (Table 36).  
It should be noted that for St/UP(MA-PG)/nano-CSP ternary systems, adding 1 wt% of nano-CSP 
(i.e. Si-PMA1-15nm ) may reduce the volume shrinkage by about 50% of its original level to 5.9%.  
Further increasing the nano-CSP concentration up to 2.5 wt% would lead to a marginal decrease of 
the volume shrinkage to 4.8%. 
In contrast, for St/UP(MA-PG)/micro-CSP ternary systems, adding micro-CSP at 1 wt% may 
reduce the volume shrinkage by about 20% of its original level to 8.4 % (Table 36), where the SEM 
micrograph (Fig. 22(a)) did not clearly indicate the global phase separation during the cure.  
However, further increasing the micro-CSP concentration all the way up to 10 wt% would keep 
increasing the volume shrinkage (Table 36), where the SEM micrographs (Figs. 22(b) to 22(d)) 
exhibited an ever enhancing global phase separation during the cure. 
The nano-CSP, with rubbery poly(methyl acrylate) (PMA) chains in the outer polymer shell 
(Tg of PMA  10
o
C) and a rigid inorganic silica core, when added in the MA-PG type of UP resin, 
could lead to expansion effects on the styrene-crosslinked polyester microgel structure (see SEM 
micrographs in Fig. 23).  It would be caused by the reduction in cyclization reaction of UP resin 
and the enhancement of interaction between UP and CSP during the cure within the microgel 
structures, and a lower intrinsic polymerization shrinkage could result. (see Figure 24)  In this 
work, this expansion effect hence depends on two factors, namely, the compatibility between UP 
matrix and nano-CSP, and phase separation rate during the cure (“Some” incompatibility for the 
St/UP/nano-CSP ternary system would be needed.  Not enough or too much phase separation 
would be unfavorable for the interaction between UP and CSP, reducing the segregation effect of 
microgel particles by CSP, and, in turn, the intrinsic polymerization shrinkage.). 
 
3.3.2 Synthesis of Si-PMA and Si-PBA-b-PMA from self-synthesized colloidal silica using 
elemental silicon by hydrolysis and their effects on properties of VER resins 
 
3.3.2.1 Si-PMA and Si-PBA-b-PMA synthesis and their properties 
The synthesis procedures have been described in section 2.3.1, 2.3.2, and 2.3.3..  The 
molecular characteristics of the Si-PMA and Si-PBA-b-PMA used for the third-year research 
project are listed in Table 37.
32
 
 
3.3.2.2 Compatibility of uncured St/VER/Si-PMA and Epoxy/DDM/Si-PMA systems 
The molecular polarity of VE and Epoxy/DDM resins, and the shell polymer of the CSP (i.e. 
Si-PMA) was evaluated in terms of the calculated dipole moment per unit volume
18
, /V1/2.  It was 
the highest for the shell polymer of the CSP (i.e. poly(methyl acrylate), PMA), followed by the 
Epoxy/DDM resin, and VER (0.0800 vs. 0.0663 vs. 0.0618). 
In general, the higher the polarity difference per unit volume between the resin matrix and the 
shell of CSP, the less compatibility for the St/VER/CSP and the Epoxy/DDM/CSP systems prior to 
reaction.  The molecular polarity data mentioned above reveal that the Epoxy/DDM/CSP system 
containing Si-PMA15 or Si-PMA30 type of CSP would theoretically be less incompatible 
(|‟EPR/DDM - ‟Shell of CSP| = 0.0137) than the St/VER/CSP system containing the same CSP (|‟VER - 
‟Shell of CSP| = 0.0182).  This is generally in agreement with the static phase characteristics data for 
the uncured St/VER/CSP system at 25
o
C and the Epoxy/DDM/CSP system at 80
o
C (Table 38), 
 20 
higher the Tg for the styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester network for the neat St/VER systems.)  It 
should be noted that the Tg of the polymer shell (i.e. PMA) for the Si-PMA15 is about 10
o
C, which 
would exert a platicization effect on the styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester network and cause a 
reduction in Tg of the P1 phase.  However, the crosslinking effect due to the composition drift as a 
result of phase separation during the cure as mentioned above would cause an increase in Tg of P1 
phase, which would be more significant than the plasticization effect, leading to a slight increase of 
Tg in P1 phase. 
 
3.3.2.5 Mechanical properties for St/VER/Si-PMA cured systems 
For the St/VER/Si-PMA-15nm cured systems, adding Si-PMA15 would decrease the impact 
strength (Figure 38) and tensile strength (Figure 40).  Also, the higher the concentration of 
Si-PMA15, the lower the impact strength and the tensile strength would be.  In contrast, as the 
concentration of Si-PMA15 was increased from 0 to 5 wt%, the Young „s modulus would increase, 
followed by a decrease, and reach a maximum value at a concentration of 2.5% (Figure 39). 
Based on the iso-strain model in Figure 4b, if the additive (phase R) is a relatively soft 
material (with a lower ER value), such as thermoplastic low profile additive (LPA) and core-shell 
rubber (CSR), in reference to the cured resin matrix (phase P), Young‟s modulus of the sample 
would be dominated by (1-λ)EP1, since he moduli of phases R, P2, and P3 multiplied by their 
corresponding volume fractions would generally be much smaller than that of phase P1 multiplied 
by its volume fraction (i.e. (1-λ)EP1), where EP1 is Young‟s modulus of the major continuous phase.  
Also, since Young‟s modulus represents the extent of resistance to deformation for a sample in the 
initial stage of tensile testing, during which the sample would be unbroken, it would be connected 
with the degree of tightness of the network rather than the degree of crosslinking of the sample. 
For St/VER/Si-PMA systems, where the Si-PMA additive (phase R) is a relatively hard 
material (with a higher ER value) in reference to the cured resin matrix (phase P), the higher 
Young‟s modulus for the whole sample at a higher concentration of Si-PMA15 additive (Figure 39) 
would be mainly due to the contribution of ξER.     Furthermore, a higher degree of phase 
separation during the cure, which is caused by the higher concentration of Si-PMA15, would lead to 
a lower styrene content in the continuous phase of crosslinked vinyl ester (phase P1 in Figure 4b).  
A lower average cross-link length of styrene and a more compact network in that phase would 
result after curing, which, in turn, could lead to a higher Young‟s modulus for the whole sample as 
well.  On the other hand, in addition to (1-λ)EP1 and ξER, the Young‟s modulus would also be 
affected by the contribution of EP2,φ (λ--ξ)ER, and (1-φ )(λ--ξ)EP3, where EP2 is the 
dominating term among them. (Figure 4b)  A higher degree of phase separation during the cure 
would inevitably cause a concomitant higher styrene content in the continuous phase of crosslinked 
vinyl ester (phase P2 in Figure 4b) in the dispersed phase, which could lead to a lower Young‟s 
modulus for the whole sample due to the ever increasing contribution of EP2 with a lower EP2 
value.  Hence, the Young „s modulus would increase, followed by a decrease, and reach a 
maximum value at a concentration of 2.5% (Figure 39). 
 
3.3.2.6 Factors to improve toughening properties for nano-scale CSR or CSP toughened St/VER 
and Epoxy/DDM cured systems 
The inferior impact strength and tensile strength for the St/VER/Si-PMA-15nm cured systems 
(Figs. 38 and 40) would be due to the poor interfacial adhesion, as revealed by the two-phase 
microstructures in SEM (Fig. 25) and TEM (Figs. 28-30) micrographs.  Introduction a reactive 
functional group in the shell of Si-PMA, such as C=C bonds, or at the surface of nano-scale silica 
particle (NSP) would be needed in order to improve the interfacial adhesion between the resin 
matrix and the Si-PMA (or SNP) in our future work.  Moreover, for the Si-polymer type of 
additive, the introduction of a rubbery polymeric segment, such as poly(butyl acrylate) (PBA), 
 22 
In 3.1.6 section, it has been demonstrated that the addition of nano-scale gp-CSR (30 nm and 
60 nm) and the submicron (240 nm) gp-CSR, with poly(butyl acrylate) (PBA) as the core and 
mainly poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) as the shell, would not be able to enhance the impact 
strength, Young‟s modulus, and tensile strength for the St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems.  In 
3.3.2.6 section, it has been mentioned that the nano-scale CSR would need to modified in such a 
way that the shell material of the CSR exhibits a rubbery state to be an effective toughener for 
St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems. 
As mentioned earlier, the nano-scale core-shell rubbers (CSR), with poly(butyl acrylate) 
(PBA) as the core and poly(methyl acrylate) (PMA) as the shell, were synthesized by two-stage 
emulsion polymerizations
15-17,33
.  The shells of the CSR were also modified by introducing 
ethylene glycol dimethacrylate (EGDMA) as a crosslinking agent with or without glycidyl 
methacrylate (GMA) as a comonomer. The properties of the six CSRs synthesized in this study, 
including BA/MA-EGDMA (i.e. G0 type), BA/MA-EGDMA-GMA(5) (i.e. G1 type), and 
BA/MA-EGDMA-GMA(10) (i.e. G2 type) with two different diameter levels of 30 nm and 60 nm,  
are summarized in Table 21. 
 
3.3.3.1 Compatibility of Epoxy/DDM/CSR and St/VER/CSR systems 
The molecular polarity of Epoxy/DDM, vinyl ester (VE) and the shell of gp-CSR (MA-Gx 
type) was evaluated in terms of the calculated dipole moment per unit volume
18,33
, /V1/2 (Table 39).  
It was the lowest for VE, followed by Epoxy/DDM resin and the shell of CSR (0.0618 vs. 0.0681 vs.  
0.0921-0.0936). 
In general, the higher the polarity difference per unit volume between the resin matrix and the 
shell of CSR, the less compatibility for the St/VER/CSR and the Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems prior to 
reaction.  Data in Table 39 reveal that the Epoxy/DDM/CSR system containing MA-Gx type of 
CSR would theoretically be more compatible (|‟EPR/DDM - ‟Shell of CSR| = 0.0240-0.0255) than the 
St/VER/CSR system containing MA-Gx type of CSR (|‟VER - ‟Shell of CSR| = 0.0303-0.0318).  This 
is in agreement with the static phase characteristics data for the uncured Epoxy/DDM/CSR system 
at 80
o
C and St/VER/CSR system at 110
o
C (Tables 40-41), where the former system remained a 
single phase at 80
o
C within 24h (Table 40), whereas the latter system resulted in a phase separation 
after the phase equilibrium at 110
o
C (Table 41).  Also, for the uncured St/VER/CSR system at 
110
o
C, the MA-G0 system would be theoretically the most incompatible system, followed by the 
MA-G1 system and the MA-G2 systems, as inferred from the polarity difference data of the resin 
matrix and the shell of CSR (Table 39).  This again is in agreement with he static phase 
characteristics data for the uncured St/VER/CSR system at 110
o
C (Table 41), where the MA-G0 
system exhibited the shortest phase separation time and the highest degree of phase separation, as 
judged from the weight ratio of lower layer and the upper layer being closest to 1.  
 
3.3.3.2 Cured sample morphology for Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR(MA-Gx-30) systems by SEM and TEM 
For the Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30 cured systems, where x = 0, 1, or 2, the SEM micrographs 
for the fractured surface of the sample showed a two-phase microstructure, consisting of a 
continuous phase of DDM-crosslinked epoxy and a CSR-rich dispersed phase (Figures 45-47).  
Figs. 45 and 46 also reveal that adding a higher concentration of CSR would lead to a more 
compatible Epoy/DDM/MA-Gx-30 system during the cure, which is somewhat unexpected.  It is 
attributed to the fact that the higher viscosity of the ternary system associated with the higher 
concentration of CSR added could slow down the phase separation rate prior to gelation during the 
cure, leading to the more compatibility for the 10% MA-Gx-30 system than the 5% MA-Gx-30 
system.  At a fixed concentration of CSR, the introduction of more GMA in the shell of CSR could 
result in a more compatibility of the Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30 system during the cure. (The 
increasing order of compatibility is MA-G0-30 < MA-G1-30 < MA-G2-30).  This is due to either 
 24 
Figures 54-58 shows the DMA curves of storage modulus E‟, loss modulus E‟‟, and tan vs. 
temperature for Epoxy/DDM cured systems containing 5% MA-G0-30, 10% MA-G0-30, 5% 
MA-G1-30, 10% MA-G1-30, and 5% MA-G2-30 type of CSR, respectively.  For the 
CSR-containing epoxy/DDM systems, the glass transition temperature in the major continuous 
phase of DDM-crosslinked epoxy (Tg in the P1 phase in Fig. 4(b)), as identified by the maximum 
point of the tan curve, ranged from 165oC to 187oC.  The small peak in the tan curve at 205oC to 
229
o
C, which is higher than the post cure temperature of 180
o
C during the sample preparation for 
the DMA test, would be due to the glass transition temperature of the local DDM-crosslinked epoxy 
phase as a result of post curing during the DMA test at a heating rate of 5
o
C/min from room -100
o
C 
to 250
o
C.  Based on the peak of tan curve at lower temperatures (Figs. 54-58), the Tg for the core 
of CSR ranged from -43
o
C to -34
o
C, whereas the Tg for the shell of the CSR ranged from 34
o
C to 
41
o
C.  The Tg designated in the tan curve ranging from 79
o
C to 108
o
C (Figs. 54-58) would be the 
glass transition temperature of the major continuous phase (i.e. P2 phase in Fig. 4(b)) in the 
CSR-rich dispersed phase.  As for the Tg for P3 phase (Fig. 4(b)),  it would not be easily 
identified by DMA. 
The effects of CSR concentration on tan vs. temperature curves for the 
Epoxy/DDM/MA-G0-30 are shown in Figure 59.  It indicates that adding either 5% or 10% 
MA-G0-30 type of CSR may increase the Tg in P1 phase (i.e. major continuous phase of 
DDM-crosslinked epoxy).  Also, the Tg in P1 phase is higher for the 5% MA-G0-30 system than 
for the 10% MA-G0-30 system, where the latter system is more compatible during the cure and the 
more plasiticization effect of CSR on the resin matrix can then result in a lowering in Tg for the P1 
phase.  For the Epoxy/DDM/MA-G1-30 system, the effects of CSR concentration on Tg of P1 
phase show the same trend as that for the MA-G0-30 system. (cf. Fig. 60 and Fig. 59)  Since the 
10% MA-G1-30 system was more compatible than 10% MA-G1-30 system during the cure, as 
mentioned earlier from SEM and TEM micrographs, the Tg of P1 phase was found to be lower than 
that of neat Epoxy/DDM system (Fig. 60).  Figure 61 shows the tan vs. temperature curves for the 
neat Epoxy/DDM and Epoxy/DDM/5%MA-G2-30 systems, where the Tg of P1 phase is seen to be 
higher than that of neat Epoxy/DDM system.  Apparently, the addition of CSR on the resin matrix 
may lead to a less compact microgel structure during the cure, and the crosslinking density in the P1 
phase can then be increased after the cure.  Hence, the Tg of P1 phase for the CSR-containing 
Epxoy/DDM system may be higher than that of the neat Epoxy/DDM system. 
Figure 62 shows the effect of GMA modification of the CSR shell on the Tg of P1 phase for 
the Epoxy/DDM/5% MA-Gx-30 systems.  The Tg of P1 phase for three of the 5% CSR-containing 
systems is higher than that of the neat Epoxy/DDM system.  Also, the higher concentration of 
GMA in the CSR shell, the lower the Tg of P1 phase would generally result.  As for the 
Epoxy/DDM/10% MA-Gx-30 systems, the effect of GMA modification of the CSR shell on the Tg 
of P1 phase (Fig. 63) essentially follows the same trend as that for the 5% MA-Gx-30 systems. 
 
3.3.3.5 Mechanical properties for Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR(MA-Gx-30) cured systems 
For the Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30 cured systems, adding MA-Gx-30 type of CSR could 
increase the impact strength by 5-25% (Figure 64).  Also, the higher the concentration of CSR, the 
higher the impact strength would be (i.e. 10% MA-Gx-30 > 5% MA-Gx-30).  At a fixed CSR 
concentration, as the GMA concentration in the CSR shell increases, the impact strength would 
generally decrease (i.e. MA-G0-30 > MA-G1-30 > MA-G2-30). 
Figure 65 shows the effects of CSR concentration and the GMA concentration introduced in 
the CSR shell on fracture toughness, KIC, of Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30 cured systems.  Adding 5 or 
10% of MA-G0-30 type of CSR can increase the fracture toughness by about 10-20%, whereas 
adding either 10% MA-G1-30 or 5% MA-G2-30 type of CSR would keep the fracture toughness 
essentially unaltered.  On the other hand, adding 5% MA-G1-30 type of CSR would reduce the 
 26 
Increasing the MR to 2/1 would lead to a flake-like microstructure, and the microgel structure 
cannot be clearly identified.  Further increasing the MR to 2.5/1 could result in a swollen microgel 
structure.  Apparently, the change of cured sample morphogy is a result of the change in the 
concentration of styrene monomer which may exert a swelling effect on the microgel structure.  
When the swelling effect is inadequate, such as the case of MR = 1/1 and MR = 1.5/1, individual 
compact microgel structure can then be identified.  At MR = 2/1, the swelling effect on the 
microstructure would be pertinent so that a flake-like microstructure was observed.  When the 
swelling effect on the microgel structure is more than enough, such as the case of MR = 2.5/1, 
swollen microgel structure can be observed. 
Figure 71 shows the fractured surface of SEM micrographs for neat Epoxy/DDM cured 
systems at varied equivalent ratio (ER) of epoxy group to active hydrogen in DDM, with ER = 0.5/1, 
0.75/1, 1/1, 1.25/1, and 1.5/1.  At ER = 0.5/1, a compact microgel structure was observed.  As the 
ER was increased to 0.75/1, a flake-like microsture was seen along with some microgel structure 
scattered around.  Increasing the ER to 1.25/1 would lead to a swollen microstructure, and the 
local microgel structure cannot be connected together to span the whole sample space.  Further 
increasing the ER to 1.5/1 could result in a swollen microgel structure somewhat resembling that of 
ER at 1.25/1, but with a much lower crosslinking density for the interwoven three-dimensional 
network.   Apparently, the change of cured sample morphogy is a result of the change in the 
concentration of epoxy resin (with a functionality of 2) which may exert a swelling effect on the 
microgel structure.  When the swelling effect is inadequate, such as the case of ER = 0.5/1, 
individual compact microgel structure can then be identified.  At ER = 0.75/1 and 1/1, the 
swelling effect on the microstructure would be pertinent so that a flake-like microstructure was 
observed.  When the swelling effect on the microgel structure is more than enough, such as the 
case of ER = 1.25/1 and 1.5/1, swollen microgel structure or even swollen interwoven microgel 
structure can be observed. 
      
3.3.4.2 DSC cure kinetics for neat St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems 
Figure 72 shows the isothermal DSC reaction profiles at 110
o
C for neat St/VER binary 
systems at varied molar ratio (MR) of styrene to vinyl ester C=C bonds, with MR = 1/1, 1.5/1, 2/1, 
and 2.5/1.  The induction time (or the onset time of reaction), tz, and the time to maximum 
reaction rate, tm, decreased with increasing MR.  As the MR was increased from MR = 1/1 to 2.5/1, 
the maximum DSC reaction rate was increased, followed by a decrease, and reached a maximum at 
MR = 2/1. 
Figure 73 shows the corresponding DSC conversion profiles of total C=C bonds to Fig. 72.  
In the calculation of DSC conversion of total C=C bonds, it has been assumed that
34
 the heat of free 
radical polymerization for styrene C=C bonds and that for vinyl ester C=C bonds are equal to each 
other.  Actually, based on the DSC kinetics data
45
, the heat of polymerization for styrene C=C 
bonds is 16.13 kcal/mol, whereas that for the vinyl ester C=C bonds is 24.65 kcal/mol.  
Nevertheless, for the St/VER system with MR = 2/1 cured at 110
o
C, the difference between the 
uncorrected DSC conversion of C=C bonds and the corrected DSC conversion of C=C bonds, 
where the conversion of vinyl ester C=C bonds, E, by FTIR would be needed in the calculation, 
has been reported to be within 3%
45
.  Hence, in this work, no correction has been made in the 
calculation of DSC final conversion of total C=C bonds.  Fig. 73 reveals that as the MR was 
increased from MR = 1/1 to 2.5/1, the DSC final conversion of total C=C bonds was increased, 
followed by a decrease, and reached a maximum at MR = 2/1, which exhibits the same trend as    
that for the DSC reaction rate in Fig. 72. 
Figure 74 shows the isothermal DSC reaction profiles at 100
o
C for neat Epoxy/DDM binary 
systems at varied equivalent ratio (ER) of epoxy group to active hydrogen in DDM, with ER = 0.5/1, 
0.75/1, 1/1, 1.25/1, and 1.5/1.  The time to maximum reaction rate, tm, decreased with increasing 
ER.  As the ER was increased from ER = 0.5/1 to 1.5/1, the maximum DSC reaction rate was 
 28 
maximum at ER = 0.75/1.  Again, at an ER range of 1/1 to 1.5/1, as ER was increased, the impact 
strength was increased, followed by a decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 1.25/1.    
Among the five ER‟s studied, the maximum impact strength occurred at ER = 0.75/1. 
Figure 85 shows the effects of ER on fracture toughness for neat Epoxy/DDM cured systems.  
At an ER range of 0.5/1 to 1/1, as ER was increased, the impact strength was decreased.  At an ER 
range of 1/1 to 1.5/1, as ER was increased, the fracture energy was increased, followed by a 
decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 1.25/1, which revealed the same tendency as that of 
impact strength in Fig. 84.  Among the five ER‟s studied, the maximum fracture toughness 
occurred at ER = 0.5/1 for the Epoxy/DDM cured systems, which is in contrast to the maximum 
impact strength at ER = 0.75/1. 
Figure 86 shows the effects of ER on Poisson ratio for neat Epoxy/DDM cured systems.  At 
an ER range of 0.5/1 to 1/1, as ER was increased, the Poisson ratio was increased, followed by a 
decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 0.75/1.  At an ER range of 1/1 to 1.5/1, as ER was 
increased, the Poisson ratio was decreased, followed by an increase, and reached a minimum at ER 
= 1.25/1.  Among the five ER‟s studied, the Poisson ratio ranged from 0.38 to 0.40 for the 
Epoxy/DDM cured systems, and the maximum Poisson ratio occurred at ER = 0.75/1. 
Figure 87 shows the effects of ER on fracture energy for neat Epoxy/DDM cured systems.  
The trend of fracture energy change as a function of ER remained the same as that of fracture 
toughness in Fig. 85.  At an ER range of 0.5/1 to 1/1, as ER was increased, the fracture energy was 
decreased.  At an ER range of 1/1 to 1.5/1, as ER was increased, the fracture energy was increased, 
followed by a decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 1.25/1.  Among the five ER‟s studied, 
the maximum fracture energy occurred at ER = 0.5/1 for the Epoxy/DDM cured systems. 
The Young‟s modulus, and tensile strength for the neat Epoxy/DDM cured systems at varied 
ER are shown in Figure 88 and 89, respectively.  In general, as the ER was increased from ER = 
0.5/1 to 1.5/1, both properties were decreased, followed by an increase, and reached a minimum at 
ER = 1/1.  Among the five ER‟s studied, both the maximum Young‟s modulus and the maximum 
tensile strength occurred at ER = 0.5/1.  
 
3.3.5 Effects of particle size of nano-scale Si-PMA on the volume shrinkage in the cure of vinyl 
ester resins
26,31,40
 
Two nano-scale Si-PMA including 15 nm size of Si-PMA and 30 nm size of Si-PMA were 
employed (Table 15)
31
 to investigation the effects of particle size of Si-PMA on the volume 
shrinkage in the cure of vinyl ester resins at 110
o
C. 
 
3.3.5.1 Cured sample morphology for St/VER/Si-PMA systems by SEM 
 
Figure 90 shows the effects of particle size of CSP and CSP content on the fractured surface of 
SEM micrographs for St/VER/Si-PMA cured systems. For all of the four Si-PMA systems, the 
microstructures are characterized by a two-phase morphology consisting of a continuous 
styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester phase and an Si-PMA-rich dispersed phase.  At a fixed CSP size, 
adding higher content of CSP would lead to a less incompatible cured sample morphology (cf. Fig. 
90 (a) and (b); Fig. 90 (c) and (d)), which would be due to the viscosity effect and a concomitant 
slower phase separation rate for the 10% Si-PMA system prior to gelation during the cure.  On the 
other hand, at a fixed CSP concentration, adding larger particle size of CSP would lead to a less 
incompatible cured sample morphology for the 5% Si-PMA systems (cf. Fig. 90 (a) and (c)), which 
would be due to the viscosity effect as mentioned above, whereas the trend was reversed for the 
10% Si-PMA systems.  In other word, the 10% Si-PMA15 system became less incompatible than 
the 10% Si-PMA30 system during the cure, as expected (cf. Fig. 90 (b) and (d)). 
 
3.3.5.2 Volume shrinkage 
Table 42 shows the effects of particle size of CSP and CSP content on the fractional volume 
 30 
gp-CSR in this work would not be able to enhance the impact strength, Young‟s modulus, and 
tensile strength for the St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems although most of the gp-CSR used in this 
work may effectively reduce the volume shrinkage during the cure. 
The nano-scale CSR would need to modified in such a way that the shell material of the CSR 
exhibits a rubbery state to be an effective toughener for St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems. 
 
4.2 Second Year 
4.2.1 Synthesis of nano-scale living core-shell rubber 
The effects of nano-scale living core-shell rubber (CSR) ranging from 15 nm to 100 nm in 
size as low-profile additives (LPA) on the volume shrinkage characteristics for low-shrink vinyl 
ester resins (VER) and epoxy/DDM (4,4‟-diaminodiphenylmethane) resins were investigated.  
These CSRs designated as BA/St-SA, with poly(butyl acrylate) as the core and 
poly(styrene-co-sodium acrylate) as the shell, were synthesized by emulsifier-free reversible 
addition-fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) seeded emulsion polymerizations of butyl acrylate 
from poly(styrene-co-sodium acrylate) dispersions, which were made by a first bulk 
copolymerization of styrene (St) and acrylic acid (AA), with dibenzyltrithiocarbonate (DBTTC) as a 
RAFT agent, followed by the addition of a sodium hydroxide solution inducing a spontaneous phase 
inversion. 
In the synthesis of final dispersion of the nano-scale SAA latex, the size of the SAA latex can 
be controlled by adjusting the pH value (ca. 12) prior to the reaction, while that of the BA-SAA 
latex, which is made by the further chain extension by n-butyl acrylate (BA) to obtain the BA-SAA 
type of CSR, can also be controlled by pH (ca. 8-13) prior to the synthesis of BA-SAA latex.  15 
nm, 60 nm and 100 nm of nano-scale s-CSR (i.e BA-SAA latex) have been synthesized by RAFT 
emulsion polymerizations in this work. 
 
4.2.2. Volume shrinkage for St/VER/s-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/s-CSR systems 
For the St/VER/s-CSR systems, adding 5% or 10% of BA/St-SA type of living CSR with 15 
nm in size (i.e. E7-15nm) is unfavorable for the volume shrinkage control since not enough or too 
much phase separation during the cure would result.  This is also true for the Epoxy/DDM/5% 
E7-15nm system, which exhibited a noticeable phase separation during the cure.  Some phase 
separation during the cure would be indispensable to have a good volume shrinkage control. 
For the Epoxy/DDM/s-CSR system, by employing 10 wt% E7-15nm, a pertinent 
compatibility during the cure would result, and a reduction of cyclization reaction for Epoxy/DDM 
during the cure could be greatly facilitated.  The microgel structure during the cure would thus be 
less compact due to the segregating effects of CSR on microgel structures, and, in turn, be favorable 
for the decrease of intrinsic polymerization shrinkage after the cure.  Moreover, the relief of the 
polymerization shrinkage force caused by the rubbery core of the CSR may lead to the much less 
compact microgel structures, and can result in a good volume shrinkage control (-ΔV/V0 = 0.38 %). 
 
4.3 Third Year 
4.3.1 Effects of micron and nano-scale inorganic/organic core-shell particle on the volume 
shrinkage in the cure of unsaturated polyester and vinyl ester resins 
The effects of micron and nano-scale inorganic/organic core-shell particle (CSP) as 
low-profile additives (LPA) on the volume shrinkage characteristics for low-shrink unsaturated 
polyester (UP) and vinyl ester resins (VER) during the cure at 110
o
C were investigated.  These 
CSP designated as Si-polymer, which contained silica particle as the core and  organic polymer as 
the shell, were synthesized by the Z supported reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer 
(RAFT) graft polymerization using silica-supported 3-(benzylsulfanylthiocarbonylsulfanyl) 
propionic acid (Si-BSPA) as the chain transfer agent (CTA). 
By employing nano-CSP types of LPA (i.e. 5-15 nm size of Si-poly(methyl acrylate)), as can be 
synthesized by Z-supported RAFT polymerizations, the interaction between UP and nano-CSP 
 32 
acrylate) (PBA) as the interlayer of the CSP and improving the toughening properties of the 
St/VER/Si-PBA-b-PMA systems. Indeed, the impact strength for 1% Si-PBA-b-PMA15 system was 
higher than that of 1% Si-PMA15 system by about 30%, but at the expense of Young‟s modulus and 
tensile strength by about 10% when compared with that of 1% Si-PMA15 system. 
     Apparently, the Si-PBA-b-PMA15 type of nano-scale CSP shows promising in the toughening 
of St/VER resin system.  More effort should be devoted in the future to the synthesis of 
polymer-grafted nano-scale silica particle by RAFT polymerizations in the improvement of 
toughening properties for both St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems. 
The design parameters include the choice of polymer segments in the CSP shell and 
interlayer with different molecular weights, and the introduction of reactive functional groups in the 
polymer shell to enhance the interfacial adhesion between the resin matrix and the CSP, and so on.  
Since the density of the CSP, which is a polymer-grafted silica particle in our case, is usually much 
larger than that of the resin matrix, the design of the resin, such as VER and Epoxy, with a higher 
viscosity would be indispensable to reduce the sedimentation rate of the CSP during the preparation 
of the St/VER/CSP or Epoxy/DDM/CSP systems.  Thickening process for unsaturated polyester 
resin (UP) may even need to be adopted for the St/VER/CSP and Epoxy/DDM/CSP systems in the 
sample preparation in order to prevent a too fast phase separation for the CSP prior to gelation 
during the cure. 
 
4.3.4 Volume shrinkage for St/VER/Si-PMA cured systems  
The effects of particle size of CSP (i.e. Si-PMA) and CSP content on the fractional volume 
shrinkage for St/VER/Si-PMA systems cured at 110
o
C have been investigated.  Adding either 5% 
or 10% of Si-PMA with varied particle size (15 nm or 30 nm) could not reduce the volume 
shrinkage appreciably.  Hence, more effort will need to be devoted in the future in the study of 
effects of nano-scale Si-polymer, such as Si-PMA, on the volume shrinkage of vinyl ester resins. 
How to prevent or slow down the phase separation of Si-PMA from the original 
St/VER/Si-polymer system prior to gelation during the cure and how to effectively segregate the 
microgel particles by the Si-PMA during the cure of the St/VER/Si-polymer systems would be the 
key factors in the development of the Si-polymer as an effective low profile additive (LPA) in the 
cure of vinyl ester resins.  
 
4.3.5 Synthesis of core-shell rubber additives of MA-Gx type by conventional emulsion 
polymerizations 
The nano-scale core-shell rubbers (CSR), with poly(butyl acrylate) (PBA) as the core and 
poly(methyl acrylate) (PMA) as the shell, were synthesized by two-stage emulsion polymerizations.  
The shells of the CSR were also modified by introducing ethylene glycol dimethacrylate (EGDMA) 
as a crosslinking agent with or without glycidyl methacrylate (GMA) as a comonomer.  Six 
general-purpose CSRs, including two different size of CSR (30 nm and 60 nm in diameter) and 
three levels of GMA content introduced in the polymer shell (0%, 5%, and 10% by mole), have 
been synthesized, namely, BA/MA-EGDMA (i.e. MA-G0 type), BA/MA-EGDMA-GMA(5) (i.e. 
MA-G1 type), and BA/MA-EGDMA-GMA(10) (i.e. MA-G2 type).  These CSRs can be employed 
as toughener for thermoset resins, such as epoxy/DDM and styrene/VER resins. 
 
4.3.6 Mechanical properties for Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR(MA-Gx-30) cured systems 
The 10% MA-G0-30 system can lead to an increase of impact strength by 25% and an 
increase of fracture energy by 80%, only at the expense of a decrease in Young‟s modulus and 
tensile strength by 15-20%.  For the nano-scale core-shell rubber with diameter ranging from 30 
nm to 100 nm, adjusting the Tg for the shell of CSR in such a way that the polymer shell is in the 
rubbery state at the use temperature would be favorable for in the enhancement of impact strength 
 34 
from 0.5/1 to 1/1, the relative percentage of active hydrogens from the secondary amine 
participating the cure reaction with epoxy groups was increased.  Since the reaction rate of 
primary amine is greater than that of secondary amine during the cure reaction between epoxy and 
DDM, the DSC maximum reaction rate would be reduced with increasing ER.  As ER was larger 
than the stoichiometric ratio of 1/1, the DSC maximum reaction rate would decrease with 
increasing ER due to the dilution effect of epoxy as a solvent as mentioned earlier. 
At ER = 1/1, the DSC final conversion of limiting functional group can reach about 85%.   
 
4.3.7.3 Glass transition temperature for neat St/VER and Epoxy/DDM systems as measured by 
DMA 
For St/VER systems, the glass transition temperature for the overall styrene-crosslinked vinyl 
ester three-dimensional network, as identified by the maximum point of the tan curve and ranging 
from 144
o
C to 172
o
C, was decreased as MR was increased form MR = 1/1 to 2.5/1  At MR = 2/1, 
the Tg for the styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester network in this work was found to be 151.2
o
C. 
For Epoxy/DDM systems, as the ER was increased from 0.5/1 to 2.5/1, the glass transition 
temperature for the overall DDM-crosslinked epoxy three-dimensional network, as identified by the 
maximum point of the tan curve and ranging from 94oC to 169oC, was increased, followed by a 
decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 1/1.  At ER = 1/1, the Tg for the DDM-crosslinked 
epoxy network in this work was found to be 168.8
o
C. 
 
4.3.7.4 Mechanical properties for neat St/VER and Epoxy/DDM cured systems 
For St/VER systems, as the MR was increased from MR = 1/1 to 2.5/1, the impact strength 
was increased, whereas the Young‟s modulus and tensile strength was generally decreased.   
For Epoxy/DDM systems, at an ER range of 0.5/1 to 1/1, as ER was increased, the impact 
strength was increased, followed by a decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 0.75/1.  Again, at 
an ER range of 1/1 to 1.5/1, as ER was increased, the impact strength was increased, followed by a 
decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 1.25/1.  Among the five ER‟s studied, the maximum 
impact strength occurred at ER = 0.75/1. 
For Epoxy/DDM systems, at an ER range of 1/1 to 1.5/1, as ER was increased, the fracture 
energy was increased, followed by a decrease, and reached a maximum at ER = 1.25/1, which 
revealed the same tendency as that of impact strength.  Among the five ER‟s studied, the 
maximum fracture toughness occurred at ER = 0.5/1 for the Epoxy/DDM cured systems, which is in 
contrast to the maximum impact strength at ER = 0.75/1. 
For neat Epoxy/DDM cured systems, the trend of fracture energy change as a function of ER 
remained the same as that of fracture toughness 
For neat Epoxy/DDM systems, in general, as the ER was increased from ER = 0.5/1 to 1.5/1, 
both Young‟s modulus and tensile strength were decreased, followed by an increase, and reached a 
minimum at ER = 1/1.  Among the five ER‟s studied, both the maximum Young‟s modulus and 
the maximum tensile strength occurred at ER = 0.5/1. 
 
5. Self Evaluation of the Project 
1. The content of this research has been at least 70% in agreement with that of the original 
proposal. 
2. The findings resulting from this research pertain to the application-oriented fundamental 
research, which will be suitable to be published in the foreign academic research journals, such 
as, . Polymer, J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem., J. Appl. Polym. Sci., and Polym. Eng. Sci. 
3. In the future, more effort will be devoted to the following research content:  (i) toughening of 
epoxy and vinyl ester resin systems by nano-scale living core-shell rubber to be synthesized by 
RAFT emulsion polymerizations; (ii) volume shrinkage and toughing of epoxy and vinyl ester 
resin systems by nano-scale polymer-grafted silica to be synthesized by RAFT solution 
polymerizations, such as Si-PMA, Si-PBA-b-PMA, Si-polymer, and Si-copolymer; (iii) volume 
 36 
40. Chen, S.L. MS Thesis, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 2010. 
41. Huang, Y.J.; Su, C.C. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 1995, 55, 323. 
42. Liu, D.; Sue, H.J.; Thompson, Z.J.; Bates, F.S.; Hillmyer, M.A.; Dettloff, M.; Jacob, G.; 
Verghese, N.; Pham, H. Polym. Mater. Sci. Eng., 2010, 103, 543. 
43. Lazzeri, A.; Bucknall, C.B. J. Mater. Sci., 1993, 28, 6799. 
44. Rosen, S.L. Fundamental Principles of Polymeric Materials, 2
nd
 ed.; Wiley: New York, 1993, p. 
386. 
45. Jiang, Q.D. MS Thesis, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 2008. 
 
8. Tables and Figures 
 
Table 1.  gp-CSR used in this study 
CSR codes  Simple 
codes 
Monomer
s 
Molar comp. of 
monomers 
Tg(C)
a
 Dn(nm)
b
 
BA/MMA- 
EGDMA 
G0-30 Core: BA 
Shell:MM
A 
,EGDMA 
Core:0.767 
Shell:0.990:0.010 
-41.4, 
62.1, 
126.0 
34.9 
 G0-60   -48.2, 
57.3, 
119.4 
59.0 
 G0-240   -44.8, 
65.2, 
126.4 
239.5 
BA/MMA- 
EGDMA-GMA(5) 
G1-30 Core: BA 
Shell:MM
A 
,EGDMA, 
GMA 
Core:0.787 
Shell:0.939:0.010: 
0.050 
-54.7, 
59.5, 
112.4 
35.1 
 G1-60   -47.2, 
61.2, 
110.8 
62.4 
 G1- 240         -46.3, 
65.5, 
114.7 
243.8 
BA/MMA- 
EGDMA-GMA(10) 
G2-30 Core: BA 
Shell:MM
A 
,EGDMA, 
GMA 
Core:0.799 
Shell:0.889:0.010: 
0.100 
-50.6, 
67.1, 
114.9 
34.9 
 G2-60   -45.2, 64.3 
 38 
 
Table 4.  Summary of the experimental conditions for the synthesis of poly(styrene-co-acrylic 
acid) dispersion as the seed for subsequent preparation of the SAA and PBA-SAA type of CSR 
for the first-year research project 
expt  process RAFT agent overall solids 
content, wt% 
fAA,0 
a
 AIBN, mol target Mn 
at 100% 
convn, g 
mol
-1
 
E4 bulk poly‟n, 
followed by a 
spontaneous 
phase 
inversion and 
an emulsion 
poly‟n 
DBTTC 11.2 0.179 1.7 x 10
-3
 10700 
E5 same as above 
(s.a.b.) 
DBTTC 12.8 0.325 9.8 x 10
-4
 10300 
a: molar fraction of AA in the monomer mixture 
 
Table 5.  Emulsifier-free, seeded emulsion polymerizations using a spontaneous phase 
inversion process: chain extension with styrene and n-butyl acrylate of the 
poly(styrene-co-acrylic acid) dispersion E5 at 60
o
C and alkaline pH for the first-year research 
project 
 
expt  amt of 
dispersion E5 
(12 wt% 
solids), g 
added 
monomer 
amt of added 
monomer, g 
[ACPA]0 
mol Laq
-1
 
target Mn 
at 100% 
convn, g 
mol
-1
 
target 
solids 
content, 
wt% 
E6 200 St 40 8.4 x 10
-3
 28000 25.8 
E7 100 BA 30 1.36 x 10
-2
 36700 30.4 
 
Table 6.  Characteristics of the copolymers and latexes for the first-year research project 
 
expt  time, h final convn, % Dz from TEM 
(nm) 
target Mn 
at 100% 
convn, g 
mol
-1
 
exp Mn, g 
mol
-1
 
PDI 
E1 21 93 650  188100 1.36 
E2 23 92 310 18800 19400 1.44 
E3 7 38
a
 325 36400 23200 1.28 
 40 
E7-60 200 g of E6-28 BA 10.19 1.36 x 10
-2
 41200 6.7 
 
Table 9.  Characteristics of the copolymers and latexes for the second-year research project 
  
expt  time, h final 
convn, % 
Dz by DLS , 
nm ()c 
Dz by 
TEM , nm 
Final pH target Mn 
at 100% 
convn, g 
mol
-1
 
exp Mn, g 
mol
-1
 
PDI 
E1 21 93 656.1(0.1) 667 5.72 - 116980 1.46 
E2 23 92 291.6(0.1) 275 8.32 20400 17250 1.42 
E3 7 38
a
 191.2(0.3) 310 7.38 62700 35600 1.42 
E4 3.5 55 7.9(0.4) -
d
 11.21 10700 5490 1.32 
E5-5 6+12
b
 94 4.7(0.4) -
d
 11.88 10300 7580 1.24 
E6-100 7 100 94.9(0.2) 100 10.23 28000 23820 1.30 
E7-100 1 100 102.8(0.2) 175 7.90 36700 27270 1.08 
E5-13 6+12
b
 94 12.8(0.7) -
d
 8.59 10300 7950 1.20 
E6-28 7 100 28.2(0.3) 35 12.93 20600 22820 1.29 
E7-15 2 100 15.1(0.7) -
d
 12.60 21700 15430 1.26 
E7-60 1 100 59.7(0.2) 55 12.79 41300 34120 1.19 
a: For the second step only; b: see the experimental part; c: polydispersity of particle diameter  () 
= S.D. (standard deviation)/Dn(number-average diameter); d: cannot be measured by using 
TEM (75 kV). 
 
Table 10. Size and size distribution of colloidal silica by DLS 
 
n The z-average diameter Dz 
(nm) of the particle after the 
n-th growth 
Polydispersity index of the 
particle (σ)a 
0 13.6 0.41 
1 22.0 0.16 
2 30.4 0.06 
3 42.0 0.09 
4 55.0 0.12 
a: The polydispersity index of the particle (σ) is defined as the ratio of standard deviation of the 
particle and the average particle diameter. 
 
Table 11.  Reaction Conditions and Properties of PMA-grafted Silica Particles (Si-PMA) as 
CSP Additives for UP, VE, and EP Resins  
CSP code  Monomers in 
the shell 
 
[M]0 :[Si-BSPA]0 :[
BSPA]0 :[AIBN]0
a
 
Mn(g)
b
 Mw/Mn(g) 
b
 
Si-PMA1-15nm
c
 Methyl acrylate  300 :3.1 :1 :0.2 27,100 1.86 
 42 
 
 Mn,GPC(g)
a
 Mw/Mn(g)
a
 Mn,GPC(f)
b
 Mw/Mn(f)
b
 Gr(%)
c
 Gp(mol/g)
c
 Ge(%)
d
 
15nm-silica 1350 1.31 8740 1.45 5.86 43.4 42.5 
30nm-silica 1400 1.05 17100 1.36 5.2 36.6 >99 
A: molecular weight and polydispersity of grafted polymers determined by GPC., b: molecular 
weight and polydispersity of free polymers produced in solution; c: weight (Gr) and molar (Gp) 
grafting ratio of polymer grafted onto silica determined by TGA; d: apparent grafted CTA 
efficiency, Ge = Gp/GSi-BSPA 
 
Table 16. Size and size distribution of colloidal silica by DLS for the third-year research 
project 
 
n The z-average diameter Dz 
(nm) of the particle after the 
n-th growth 
Polydispersity index of the 
particle (σ)a 
0 14.6 0.236 
1 21.5 0.097 
2 32.0 0.063 
3 42.3 0.081 
4 54.5 0.177 
 64.6 0.182 
a: The polydispersity index of the particle (σ) is defined as the ratio of standard deviation of the 
particle and the average particle diameter. 
 
Table 17. Residual weight percentages of activated silica, Si-Cl, Si-BSPA, and Si-PMA as a 
result of heating from room temperature to 950
o
C as measured by TGA for two 
self-synthesized nano-scale silica particles of 15 nm and 30 nm in diameter in the third-year 
research project 
 
 15 nm-silica 30 nm-silica 
Activated silica 92.47% 93.49% 
Si-Cl 90.14% 91.17% 
Si-BSPA 85.880% 87.40% 
Si-PMA 80.10% 80.59% 
 
 
Table 18.  Loading and grating properties of Si-Cl and Si-BSPA on solid surface of the 
self-synthesized nano-scale silica particles in the third-year research project 
Type of 
silica 
Si-Cl 
(mol/g)a 
Molecule 
of 
Si-Cl/nm
2
 
Degree of 
substitution 
from Si-Cl to 
Si-BSPA (%) 
Si-BSPA(
mol/g) 
Molecule 
of 
Si-BSPA/
nm
2
 
15 
nm-silica 
871.6 2.89 15.5 135.1 0.447 
30nm-silica 771.7 5.11 16.04 123.8 0.820 
 
 44 
Table 22. Calculated dipole moments for UP, VER, Epoxy/DDM, Epoxy/DDS, and the 
shell of gp-CSR (MMA-Gx type) 
 
 
UP or Shell of CSR  
 
Molar volume 
(cm
3
/mol) 
 
dipole moment per unit 
volume ’ ( =(2/V)1/2 ) 
(debye/ cm
3/2
) 
 
|’VER - ’shell of CSR| 
 
(a)UP, VER, and EP 
   
 
UP (MA-PG ) 
 
1347.5 
 
0.0867 
 
 
UP (MA-PA-PG) 
 
1318.6 
 
0.0835 
 
    
 
VER  
 
421.8 
 
0.0618 
- 
    
 
EPR 
 
272.4 
 
0.0546 
 
 
DDM 
 
159.3 
 
0.1000 
 
 
DDS 
 
215.2 
 
0.0915 
 
    
 
EPR/DDM (equiv.ratio 
= 1/1)_ 
 
234.7 
 
0.0663 
 
 
EPR/DDS (equiv.ratio 
= 1/1)_ 
 
253.3 
 
0.0659 
 
    
 
(b) Shell of CSR 
   
 
MMA-EGDMA (i.e. 
G0) 
 
82.37 
 
0.0723 
 
0.0105 
 
MMA-EGDMA-GMA(
5) (i.e. G1) 
 
82.45 
 
0.0730 
 
0.0112 
 
MMA-EGDMA-GMA(
10) (i.e. G2) 
 
82.52 
 
0.0737 
 
0.0119 
 
Table 23. Phase separation characteristics for St/VER/10%G-30 uncured systems at 25 and 
110
o
C, and final conversions of total C=C bonds by DSC for St/VER/10%G-30 systems cured 
at 110
o
C 
CSR added Simple 
codes 
tp(25)
a
 
(min) 
wu(25)
b
 (%) tp(110)
a
 (min) wu(110)
b
 (%) (%)
c
 
Neat VER      82.1 
BA/MMA-EGDMA G0-30 d - 540 62.9 78.8 
BA/MMA-EGDMA
-GMA(5) 
G1-30 d - 250 65.2 81.1 
BA/MMA-EGDMA
-GMA(10) 
G2-30 d - 140 67.6 84.0 
 46 
, vm |’matrix - ’shell of CSR |  
(debye/cm
3/2
) 
Neat VER 0 0 2.38 (0.05)
 
a
 
- 
G0-30 5  0.12 -0.37 (0.04) 0.0060 
 10  0.09 -3.75 (0.14) 0.0060 
G0-60 5  0 -2.07 (0.04) 0.0060 
 10  0 -3.76 (0.12) 0.0060 
G0-240 5  0 2.92 (0.05) 0.0060 
 10  0 0.53 (0.10) 0.0060 
G1-30 5  0 2.51 (0.14) 0.0067 
 10  0.09 -1.98 (0.07) 0.0067 
G1-60 5  0 -0.16 (0.04) 0.0067 
 10  0.09 -2.31 (0.06) 0.0067 
G1-240 5  0.30 0.85(0.03) 0.0067 
 10  0.15 0.79 (0.04) 0.0067 
a: The values in parentheses represent the estimated standard errors. 
 
Table 26. Effects of equivalent ratio of epoxy and DDM on the Tg of the epoxy/DDM binary 
systems cured at 100
o
C for 2hr and a postcure at 180
o
C for another 2hr. 
EPOXY/DDM Tg (℃) 
0.5/1 122.2 
0.75/1 169.8 
1/1 192.6 
1.25/1 137.5 
1.5/1 108.5 
 
Table 27. Effects of CSR content and size on the Tg of the Epoxy/DDM/CSR ternary systems 
(equiv. ratio of Epoxy/DDM = 1/1) cured at 100
o
C for 2hr and a postcure at 180
o
C for another 
2hr. 
 
Sample 
T
g1,α
(oC) 
T
g1,β
(oC) 
T
g2
(oC
) 
Neat Epoxy/DDM (equiv. ratio = 
1/1) 
192.6 -- -- 
5%CSR(G0-30) 192.3 -- -- 
10%CSR(G0-30) 187.7 -- -- 
 48 
(83-17)-60nm Shell:St 
,Sodium 
Acrylate 
Shell:0.831:
0.169 
(0.2) 
BA(66)/St-SA 
(67-33)-100nm  
E7-100nm Core: BA 
Shell:St 
,Sodium 
Acrylate 
Core:0.656 
Shell:0.675:
0.325 
27,300 1.08 102.8 
(0.2) 
a: by GPC; b: by DLS (Dynamic Light Scattering); polydispersity of particle size   = standard 
deviation of particle size/Dn. 
 
Table 31. Calculated molar volumes and dipole moments for VER, Epoxy Resin (EPR), and 
the shell of s-CSR 
UP or Shell 
of s-CSR  
Molar volume 
(cm
3
/mol) 
Dipole moment per unit 
volume ’ ( =(2/V)1/2 ) 
(debye/ cm
3/2
) 
’VER  - ’ 
shell of CSR 
’EPR/DDM  - ’ shell 
of s-CSR 
(a) resin     
VER  421.75 0.0618   
EPR(2/3mol
e)/DDM(1/3
mole) 
234.67 0.0663   
(b) Shell of 
s-CSR 
    
E7-15nm 73.48 0.0432 0.0186 0.0231 
E7-60nm 79.74 0.0303 0.0315 0.0360 
E7-100nm 73.48 0.0432 0.0186 0.0231 
 
Table 32. Phase separation characteristics for St/VER/10% s-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/10% 
s-CSR uncured systems at 25
o
C and 80
o
C, respectively,  and final cure conversions by DSC 
for St/VER/10% s-CSR and Epoxy/DDM/10% s-CSR systems cured at 110
o
C and 100
o
C, 
respectively 
CSR added Simple codes tp(25)
a
(min) wu(25)
b
 (%) tp(80)
a
(min) wu(80)
b
 (%) (%) 
Neat VER      78.0
c
 
BA(45)/St-SA
(67-33)-15nm 
E7-15nm d -   78.9c 
       
Neat 
Epoxy/DDM 
     76.2
e
 
BA(45)/St-SA
(67-33)-15nm 
E7-15nm   d  - 
BA(16)/St-SA E7-60nm   16 92.1 - 
 50 
c : solution poly‟n in toluene at 60oC for 18 hr, where [M]0 = 3M. 
d : solution poly‟n in toluene at 60oC for 21 hr, [M]0 = 5.6M. 
e : The glass transition temperature (Tg) for PMA is about 10
o
C. 
 
Table 35.  Loading and grafting properties of Si-Cl, Si-BSPA, and Si-PMA on solid surface of 
silica gel particles  
Size of 
Silica gel  
GSi-Cl(mmol/g)
a
 GSi-BSPA(mmol/
g)
b
 
Gd(mol. of 
CTA/nm
2
)
c
 
Gr(
%)
d
 
GP(mol/g)
e
 Ge(%)
f
 
5-15nm 1.806 0.399 0.375 7.82 2.89 0.72 
35-70m 0.527 0.313 0.377 26.9 9.93 3.17 
a: loading of Si-Cl (mmol benzyl chloride/g silica), based on TGA results  
b : loading of Si-BSPA (mmol BSPA/g silica), based on TGA results  
c : grafting density : molecules of CTA per nm
2
 on silica gel surface. 
d : weight grafting ratio of homoplymer grafted silica particles determined by TGA.
13-14
  
e : molar grafting ratio of homoplymer grafted silica particles determined by TGA.
13-14
  
f : Apparent grafted CTA (chain transfer agent) efficiency
13-14 
 
Table 36.  Volume shrinkage, V/V0, and difference in molecular polarity between resin 
matrix and the polymer shell of CSP for molded parts for St/UP/CSP cured systems 
UP type CSP added -V/V0 (%) |’matrix - ’CSP |  
(debye/cm
3/2
)
b
 
 (1)Micro- CSP   
MA- PG Neat UP 10.31 (0.35)
 a
 - 
 1 wt% Si-PMA2-70m 8.41 (0.30) 0.0067 
 2.5 wt% Si-PMA2-70m 9.85 (0.27) 0.0067 
 5 wt% Si-PMA2-70m 9.97 (0.45) 0.0067 
 10 wt% Si-PMA2-70m 10.94 (0.20) 0.0067 
    
 (2)Nano-CSP   
MA-PA-PG Neat UP 8.43 (0.13) - 
 1 wt% Si-PMA1-15nm 7.28(0.10) 0.0035 
MA-PG Neat UP 10.31 (0.35) - 
 1 wt% Si-PMA1-15nm 5.93(0.13) 0.0067 
 2.5 wt% Si-PMA1-15nm 4.84 (0.04) 0.0067 
VER Neat UP 7.89 (0.17) - 
 1 wt% Si-PMA1-15nm 8.07(0.04) 0.0196 
a: The values in parentheses represent the estimated standard errors. 
b: polarity difference between resin matrix and polymer shell of CSP, as calculated by the group 
contribution methods. 
              
Table 37.  Inorganic-organic core shell particle (CSP), Si-PMA and Si-PBA-b-PMA, used in 
the third-year of this study as excerpted from Tables 19-20 
 52 
     
 
VER  
 
421.8 
 
0.0618 
-  
     
 
EPR 
 
254.4 
 
0.0545 
  
 
DDM 
 
159.3 
 
0.1000 
  
 
DDS 
 
215.2 
 
0.0915 
  
     
 
EPR/DDM (equiv.ratio 
= 1/1)_ 
 
222.7 
 
0.0681 
  
 
EPR/DDS (equiv.ratio 
= 1/1)_ 
 
241.3 
 
0.0676 
  
     
 
(b) Shell of CSR 
    
 
MA-EGDMA (i.e. 
MA-G0) 
 
49.21 
 
0.0936 
 
0.0318 
 
0.0255 
 
MA-EGDMA-GMA(5) 
(i.e. MA-G1) 
 
50.96 
 
0.0928 
 
0.0310 
 
0.0247 
 
MA-EGDMA-GMA(10
) (i.e. MA-G2) 
 
52.71 
 
0.0921 
 
0.0303 
 
0.0240 
 
Table 40. Phase separation characteristics for Epoxy/DDM/5%MA-Gx-30 and 
Epoxy/DDM/5%MA-Gx-30 uncured systems at 80
o
C 
CSR added Simple codes 5 wt% MA-Gx-30 10 wt% MA-Gx-30 
  tp(80)
a
 (min) wu(80)
b
 (%) tp(80)
a
 (min) wu(80)
b
 (%) 
Neat Epoxy/DDM      
BA/MA-EGDMA MA-G0-30 c - c  
BA/MA-EGDMA-G
MA(5) 
MA-G1-30 c - c  
BA/MA-EGDMA-G
MA(10) 
MA-G2-30 c - c  
a: phase separation time (min) at 80
o
C (i.e. tp(80)); b: relative wt. of upper layer (%) at 80
o
C (i.e. 
wu(80)); c: one phase (after 1440 min). 
 
Table 41. Phase separation characteristics for St/VER/5%MA-Gx-30 uncured systems at 25 
and 110
o
C 
CSR added Simple codes tp(25)
a
 (min) wu(25)
b
 (%) tp(110)
a
 (min) wu(110)
b
 (%) 
Neat VER      
BA/MA-EGDMA MA-G0-30 c - 90 85.1 
BA/MA-EGDMA-G
MA(5) 
MA-G1-30 c - 110 87.9 
 54 
                                
            (e)                 (f) 
Figure 2. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale and submicron G1-CSR on cured sample 
morphologies for St/VER/G1-CSR systems as observed by SEM at 1000X.  (a) 5 wt% G1-30, (b) 
10 wt% G1-30, (c)5 wt% G1-60, (d) 10 wt% G1-60, (e) 5wt% G1-240, and (f) 10wt% G1-240. 
 
         
            (a)                (b)                (c)                 (d)                               
                       
             (e)                (f) 
Figure 3. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale and submicron G2-CSR on cured sample 
morphologies for St/VER/G2-CSR systems as observed by SEM at 1000X.  (a) 5 wt% G2-30, (b) 
10 wt% G2-30, (c)5 wt% G2-60, (d) 10 wt% G2-60, (e) 5wt% G2-240, and (f) 10wt% G2-240. 
 
 
(a)                                    (b) 
 
Figure 4. The Takayanagi models for mechanical behavior of cured CSR-containing VER resin 
systems.  (a) parallel-parallel-series (P-P-S) model, and (b) parallel-parallel-parallel-series 
(P-(P-P-S)) model.  The area of each diagram is proportional to a volume fraction of the phase. 
 
 56 
    
(a)                                      (b) 
Figure 7. SEM micrographs for the fractured surface of Epoxy/DDM/10%G0-60 sample cured at 
100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 1000 X and 
(b) 5000 X. 
 
       
(a)                        (b)                         (c) 
Figure 8. TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of Epoxy/DDM/10%G0-30 sample cured 
at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 2000 X,  
(b) 10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
        
(a)                        (b)                        (c) 
Figure 9. TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of Epoxy/DDM/10%G0-60 sample cured 
at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 2000 X,  
(b) 10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 58 
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
240
 
 
60
G2-30
24060
G1-30
24060
G0-30
Neat 
Ver
Te
ns
ile
 S
tre
ng
th
 (M
Pa
)
 Neat VER
 5wt%
 10wt%
Figure 12. Effects of CSR type and concentration on tensile strength for St/VER/gp-CSR systems 
after isothermal cure at 110
o
C for 1 hour and post-cure at 150
o
C for another hour 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
24060
G2-30
24060
G1-30
24060
G0-30
Neat 
Epoxy
 Neat Epoxy
 5wt%
 10wt%
 
 
Im
pa
ct
 S
tre
ng
th
 (J
/m
)
Figure 13. Effects of CSR type and concentration on impact strength for Epoxy/DDM/gp-CSR 
systems after isothermal cure at 100
o
C for 2 hours and post-cure at 180
o
C for another two hours 
 
 60 
systems after isothermal cure at 100
o
C for 2 hours and post-cure at 180
o
C for another two hours 
 
    
(a)                  (b)                 (c)                  (d) 
Figure 16. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale E7-15nm type of CSR on cured sample 
morphologies for St/VER/CSR systems as observed by SEM at 1000X and 5000 X.  (a) 5 wt% 
E7-15nm (1000X), (b) 5 wt% E7-15nm (5000X), (c)10 wt% E7-15nm (1000X), and (d) 10 wt% 
E7-15nm (5000X). 
 
    
(a)                  (b)                 (c)                 (d) 
Figure 17. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale E7-15nm type of CSR on cured sample 
morphologies for Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems as observed by SEM at 1000X and 5000 X.  (a) 5 
wt% E7-15nm (1000X), (b) 5 wt% E7-15nm (5000X), (c)10 wt% E7-15nm (1000X), and (d) 10 
wt% E7-15nm (5000X). 
 
    
(a)                 (b)                  (c)                  (d) 
Figure 18. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale E7-15nm type of CSR on cured sample 
morphologies for St/VER/CSR systems as observed by TEM at 2000X and 10000 X.  (a) 5 wt% 
E7-15nm (2000X), (b) 5 wt% E7-15nm (10000X), (c)10 wt% E7-15nm (2000X), and (d) 10 wt% 
E7-15nm (10000X). 
 
 62 
 
Figure 21. Effects of equivalent ratio (ER) of epoxy to DDM on the fractional volume shrinkage of 
neat epoxy/DDM systems during the cure. Symbols are experimental data , which were fitted by 
least-squares to get a fitting line. 
 
contribution methods. 
                
      (a)                  (b)                 (c)                 (d) 
Figure 22. Effects of micro-size CSP on cured sample morphologies for St/UP(MA-PG)/ 
Si-PMA2-70m systems as observed by SEM at 1000X.  (a) 1 wt% Si-PMA2-70m, (b) 2.5 wt% 
Si-PMA2-70m, (c)5 wt% Si-PMA2-70m, and (d) 10 wt% Si-PMA2-70m. 
 
                
 (a)                   (a‟)                 (b)                 (b‟) 
Figure 23. Effects of nano-size CSP on cured sample morphologies for St/UP(MA-PG)/ 
Si-PMA1-15nm systems as observed by SEM at 1000X (Figs. (a) and (b)) and 5000X (Figs. (a‟) and 
(b‟)).  (a) 1 wt% Si-PMA1-15nm, and (b) 2.5 wt% Si-PMA1-15nm. 
 64 
    
        (a)                 (b)                  (c)                 (d) 
    
        (a‟)                 (b‟)                  (c‟)                (d‟) 
Figure 26. SEM micrographs for the fractured surface of Epoxy/DDM/Si-PMA15 sample cured at 
100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  (a) neat Epoxy/DDM resin (ER = 1/1), (b) 
1wt% Si-PMA15, (c) 2.5wt% Si-PMA15, and (d) 5wt% Si-PMA15.  Micrographs obtained at 1000 
X (top row; Fig. (a), (b), (c), (d)) and 5000 X (bottom row; Fig. (a‟), (b‟), (c‟), (d‟)). 
 
       
          (a)                      (b)                        (c) 
Figure 27. TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of neat St/VER sample (MR = 2/1) cured 
at 110
o
C for 1 hr and post cured at 150
o
C for another hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 2000 X, (b) 
10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
       
          (a)                      (b)                        (c) 
Figure 28. TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of St/VER/1% Si-PMA15 sample  cured 
at 110
o
C for 1 hr and post cured at 150
o
C for another hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 2000 X, (b) 
10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
 
 
 
 66 
 
       
          (a)                      (b)                        (c) 
Figure 32 TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of Epoxy/DDM/1% Si-PMA15 sample 
cured at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 
2000 X, (b) 10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
       
          (a)                      (b)                        (c) 
Figure 33 TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of Epoxy/DDM/2.5% Si-PMA15 sample 
cured at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 
2000 X, (b) 10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
       
          (a)                      (b)                        (c) 
Figure 34 TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of Epoxy/DDM/5% Si-PMA15 sample 
cured at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at (a) 
2000 X, (b) 10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
 
 
 
 
 68 
120
140
160
180
154.89
o
C
152.79
o
C151.26
o
C
5%1% 2.5%Neat
 
 
G
la
ss
 T
ra
n
sl
a
ti
o
n
 T
em
p
er
a
tu
re
 (
o
C
)
Si-PMA-15nm Concentration
St/VER/Si-PMA-15nm Ternary Systems
151.17
o
C
Figure 37 Glass transition temperature of the styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester network vs. 
concentration of Si-PMA15 added for St/VER/Si-PMA15 systems as identified by the maximum 
point of tan curve of DMA in Fig. 46. 
 
 
1
0
3
6
9
12
15
Im
pa
ct
 st
re
ng
th
 (J
/m
)
 
 Impact strength of of St/VER/Si-PMA-15 System
5% 2.5% 1% Neat
Si-PMA concentration (wt %)
 
Figure 38. Effects of Si-PMA15 concentration on impact strength for St/VER/Si-PMA15 systems 
after isothermal cure at 110
o
C for 1 hour and post-cure at 150
o
C for another hour 
 
 70 
    
(a)                                       (b) 
Figure 41. Cured sample morphologies for St/VER/1% Si-PBA-b-PMA15 system as observed by 
SEM at 1000X and 5000 X.  (a) 1000X, and (b) 15000X. 
 
1
0
3
6
9
12
15
Im
p
a
ct
 s
tr
en
g
th
 (
J
/m
)
 
 
Impact strength of of St/VER/CSP-15 System
        1% 
Si-PBA-b-PMA 
    1% 
Si-PMA 
Neat
Additive concentration (wt %)  
Figure 42. Effects of Polymer Shell of CSP15 on impact strength for St/VER/1% CSP15 systems 
after isothermal cure at 110
o
C for 1 hour and post-cure at 150
o
C for another hour. 
 
 72 
    
(a)                 (b)                  (c)                 (d) 
Figure 45. Effects of CSR concentration of MA-G0-30 type on SEM cured sample morphology of 
the fractured surface for Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems at 1000X and 5000 X.  (a) 5 wt% MA-G0-30 
(1000X), (b) 5 wt% MA-G0-30 (5000X), (c)10 wt% MA-G0-30 (1000X), (d) 10 wt% MA-G0-30 
(5000X). 
 
    
(a)                 (b)                  (c)                 (d) 
Figure 46. Effects of CSR concentration of MA-G1-30 type on SEM cured sample morphology of 
the fractured surface for Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems at 1000X and 5000 X.  (a) 5 wt% MA-G1-30 
(1000X), (b) 5 wt% MA-G1-30 (5000X), (c)10 wt% MA-G1-30 (1000X), (d) 10 wt% MA-G1-30 
(5000X). 
 
  
(a)                 (b)                   
Figure 47. Effects of MA-G2-30 type of CSR on SEM cured sample morphology of the fractured 
surface for Epoxy/DDM/CSR systems at 1000X and 5000 X.  (a) 5 wt% MA-G2-30 (1000X), and 
(b) 5 wt% MA-G2-30 (5000X). 
 
        
           (a)                      (b)                        (c) 
Figure 48 TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of Epoxy/DDM/5% gp-CSR(MA-G0-30) 
sample cured at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at 
(a) 2000 X, (b) 10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
 74 
       
(a)                      (b)                        (c) 
Figure 52 TEM micrographs for ultramicrotomed section of Epoxy/DDM/5% gp-CSR(MA-G2-30) 
sample cured at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  Micrographs obtained at 
(a) 2000 X, (b) 10000 X, and (c) 50000 X. 
 
 
0 20 40 60 80 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
4
3
C
o
n
v
ersio
n
 o
f lim
itin
g
 fu
n
tio
n
a
l g
ro
u
p
1.  Epoxy
2.  5% MA-G0-30
3.  5% MA-G1-30
4.  5% MA-G2-30
 
Time (min)R
a
te
 (
J
/m
o
le
 l
im
it
in
g
 f
u
n
ti
o
n
a
l 
g
ro
u
p
/s
ec
)
1
2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
 
 
Figure 53 Effects of GMA concentration in the shell of nano-scale CSR on isothermal DSC reaction 
rate and conversion profiles at 100
o
C for Epoxy/DDM/5% MA-Gx-30 systems 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 76 
-100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 250
0.01
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
 
 
2
1
3
1.  Storage Modulus E
'
2.  Loss Modulus E
''
3.  tan
lo
g 
E
',l
og
 E
" 
(P
a)
Epoxy/DDM/5% MA-G1-30 , ER=1/1
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
40.34
O
C 97.81
O
C
220.05
O
C
Temperature (
o
C)
-39.12
O
C
T
an 181.27
O
C
Figure 56 Storage modulus, loss modulus, and tan vs. temperature for Epoxy/DDM/5% 
gp-CSR(MA-G1-30 type ) cured systems as measured by DMA 
 
-100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 250
0.01
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
 
 
2
1
3
1.  Storage Modulus E
'
2.  Loss Modulus E
''
3.  tan
lo
g 
E
',l
og
 E
" 
(P
a)
Epoxy/DDM/10% MA-G1-30 , ER=1/1
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
40.00
O
C 95.82
O
C
205.06
O
C
Temperature (
o
C)
-42.45
O
C
T
an 
165.24
O
C
Figure 57 Storage modulus, loss modulus, and tan vs. temperature for Epoxy/DDM/10% 
gp-CSR(MA-G1-30 type ) cured systems as measured by DMA 
 
 78 
-100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 250
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Epoxy/DDM/MA-G1-30 Ternary System
 
 
 
T
an
 
 
Temperature (oC)
1.  Neat Epoxy
2.    5% MA-G1
3.  10% MA-G1 1
2
3
Figure 60 Effects of the concentration of MA-G1-30 type of CSR on tan vs. temperature profiles 
for Epoxy/DDM/MA-G1-30 cured systems as measured by DMA 
 
-100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 250
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
224.41
O
C
Epoxy/DDM/MA-G2-30 Ternary System
 
T
an
 
 
Temperature ( oC )
1.  Neat Epoxy
2.  5% MA-G2-30
107.22
O
C
-34.60
O
C
1
2
 
Figure 61 Effect of MA-G2-30 type of CSR on tan vs. temperature profiles for Epoxy/DDM/5% 
MA-G2-30 cured systems as measured by DMA 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 80 
1 2
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
    10% 
MA-G2
20.06
18.11
20.0619.13
22.92
Im
p
a
ct
 s
tr
en
g
th
 (
J
/m
)
 
 Impact strength of Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30
20.86 19.68
     5% 
MA-G2
    10% 
MA-G1
     5% 
MA-G1
    10% 
MA-G0
     5% 
MA-G0
 Neat
Figure 64. Effects of CSR concentration and GMA concentration in the shell of CSR on impact 
strength for Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30 systems after isothermal cure at 100
o
C for2 hour and post-cure 
at 180
o
C for another 2 hour 
 
1 2
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
Fr
ac
tu
re
 to
ug
hn
es
s (
M
Pa
 m
1/
2 )
 
 Fracture Toughness of Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30
     5% 
MA-G2
    10% 
MA-G1
     5% 
MA-G1
    10% 
MA-G0
     5% 
MA-G0
 Neat
 
Figure 65. Effects of CSR concentration and GMA concentration in the shell of CSR on fracture 
 82 
1 2
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Young's modulus of Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30
Y
o
u
n
g
's
  
M
o
d
u
lu
s 
(M
P
a
)
 
 
    10% 
MA-G2
     5% 
MA-G2
    10% 
MA-G1
     5% 
MA-G1
    10% 
MA-G0
     5% 
MA-G0
 Neat
Figure 68. Effects of CSR concentration and GMA concentration in the shell of CSR on Young‟s 
modulus for Epoxy/DDM/MA-Gx-30 systems after isothermal cure at 100
o
C for2 hour and 
post-cure at 180
o
C for another 2 hour 
 
 84 
 
    
        (a)                 (b)                 (c)                  (d) 
    
        (a‟)                 (b‟)                 (c‟)                 (d‟) 
 
 
 
 
 
        (e) 
 
        (e‟) 
 
Figure 71 SEM micrographs for the fractured surface of neat Epoxy/DDM sample with varied 
equivalent ratio (ER) of epoxy groups to active hydrogen in DDM cured at 100
o
C for 2 hr and post 
cured at 180
o
C for another 2 hr.  (a) ER = 0.5/1, (b) ER = 0.75/1, (c) ER = 1/1, (d) ER = 1.25/1, 
and (e) MR = 1.5/1.  Micrographs obtained at 1000 X (top row; Fig. (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)) and 5000 
X (bottom row; Fig. (a‟), (b‟), (c‟), (d‟), (e‟)). 
 
 86 
0 20 40 60 80 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
1.  0.5/1
2.  0.75/1
3.  1/1
4.  1.25/1
5.  1.5/1
 
DSC Rate of profile for Neat Epoxy/DDM System at 100
o
C
Time (min)
R
at
e 
(J
/m
ol
e 
lim
it
in
g 
fu
nt
io
na
l g
ro
up
/s
ec
)
1
2
3
4
5
Figure 74 DSC reaction rate profiles for neat Epoxy/DDM systems of varied equivalent ratio (ER) 
of epoxy groups to active hydrogen in DDM cured at 100
o
C 
 
0 20 40 60 80 100
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
DSC Conversion for Neat Epoxy/DDM System at 100
o
C
1.  0.5/1
2.  0.75/1
3.  1/1
4.  1.25/1
5.  1.5/1
 
C
on
ve
rs
io
n 
of
 li
m
it
in
g 
fu
nt
io
na
l g
ro
up
Time (min)
 
 
1
2
3
4 5
 
Figure 75 DSC conversion profiles of limiting functional group for neat Epoxy/DDM systems of 
varied equivalent ratio (ER) of epoxy groups to active hydrogen in DDM cured at 100
o
C 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 88 
100
120
140
160
180
200
2.5/11.5/1 2/11/1
 
 
G
la
ss
 T
ra
n
sl
a
ti
o
n
 T
em
p
er
a
tu
re
 (
o
C
)
Molar Ratio of Styrene to VER C=C Bonds (MR)
0
Neat St/VER Binary Systems
Figure 78 Glass transition temperature of the styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester network vs. molar ratio 
of styrene to vinyl ester C=C bonds (MR) for neat St/VER systems as identified by the maximum 
point of tan curve of DMA in Fig. 42. 
 
0 50 100 150 200 250
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
1.5
 
 
T
an
 
 
Temperature ( 
o
C )
1.  ER=0.5
2.  ER=0.75
3.  ER=1
4.  ER=1.25
5.  ER=1.5
Neat Epoxy/DDM Binary System
1
2
3
4
5
 
Figure 79 Tan vs. temperature profiles for neat Epoxy/DDM cured systems of varied equivalent 
ratio (ER) of epoxy group to active hydrogen in DDM as measured by DMA. 
 
 90 
hour 
 
1
400
450
500
550
Young's modulus of Neat ST/VER
Y
ou
ng
's
  M
od
ul
us
 (M
Pa
)
 
 
2.5/12/11.5/11/1
Molar Ratio
 
Figure 82. Effects of molar ratio of styrene to vinyl ester C=C bonds (MR) on Young‟s modulus for 
neat St/VER systems after isothermal cure at 110
o
C for 1 hour and post-cure at 150
o
C for another 
hour 
 
1
0
20
40
60
80
100
Tensile strength of Neat ST/VER
T
en
si
le
 S
tr
en
gt
h 
(M
Pa
)
 
 
2.5/12/11.5/11/1
Molar Ratio
 
Figure 83. Effects of molar ratio of styrene to vinyl ester C=C bonds (MR) on tensile strength for 
neat St/VER systems after isothermal cure at 110
o
C for 1 hour and post-cure at 150
o
C for another 
hour 
 
 
 
 
 92 
1
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
 
 Poisson ratio of Neat Epoxy/DDM
1.5/11.25/11/10.75/10.5/1
ER
 
Figure 86. Effects of equivalent ratio of epoxy group to active hydrogen in DDM on Poisson ratio  
for neat Epoxy/DDM systems after isothermal cure at 100
o
C for 2 hour and post-cure at 180
o
C for 
another 2 hour 
 
1
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Fr
ac
tu
re
 e
ne
rg
y 
(J
/m
2 )
 
 Fracture Eenergy of Neat Epoxy/DDM
1.5/11.25/11/10.75/10.5/1
ER
 
Figure 87 Effects of equivalent ratio of epoxy group to active hydrogen in DDM on fracture energy 
for neat Epoxy/DDM systems after isothermal cure at 100
o
C for 2 hour and post-cure at 180
o
C for 
another 2 hour 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 94 
 
            
        (a)                  (b)                 (c)                  (d) 
             
        (a‟)                  (b‟)                (c‟)                  (d‟) 
Figure 90 SEM micrographs for the fractured surface of St/VER/Si-PMA sample cured at 110
o
C for 
1 hr.  (a) 5% Si-PMA15, (b) 10% Si-PMA15, (c) 5% Si-PMA30, and (d) 10% Si-PMA30.  
Micrographs obtained at 1000 X (top row; Fig. (a), (b), (c), (d)) and 5000 X (bottom row; Fig. (a‟), 
(b‟), (c‟), (d‟)). 
 
 2
二○一○年美國化學會秋季年會 
黃延吉 
台灣科技大學化工系 
一、參加會議經過 
二○一○年美國化學會秋季年會(ACS Fall Annual Meeting)已於 8 月 22 日(週日)至 8
月 26 日(週四)在美國麻州波士頓之 Boston Convention and Exhibition Center (BCEC)及周
邊旅館舉行。除了口頭報告分組及壁報分組之學術、專業技術論文發表外，8 月 23 日至
25 日亦舉行為期 3 天之展覽會，共有超過 3050 家公司參展，內容包羅萬象，如儀器、
書籍、電腦硬体及科學軟体等。 
筆者係於 8/22(週六)由台北飛往紐澤西的紐華克國際機場(靠近紐約市)，於美國東部
時間同日(週六)晚上十時許抵達。8/23 週日早上，再由紐華克出發，開車前往美國麻州
波士頓(車程約五小時)。 
與筆者之高分子研究領域較密切相關之分組主要為： (1) From Molecules to 
Macromolecules: Towards Self-Assembling Materials (POLY Division, 8/23 週一上午), (2) 
Nanoscience in Polymer Chemistry: Synthesis Development  (POLY Division, 8/23 週一下
午) ，(3) Nano-Scaled Phenomena in Polymeric Systems: Nano-Mechanical Behavior and 
Nanocomposites (PMSE Division, 8/25 週三上午)，及(4) General Papers/New Concepts in 
Polymeric Materials: Thermoset/Polymer Mechanics (PMSE Division, 8/26 週四上午)。我個
人所口頭發表之論文 “Effects of submicron and nanoscale core-shell rubber on the volume 
shrinkage in the cure of vinyl ester resins ”,則是安排在 8/26(週四)上午" General Papers/New 
Concepts in Polymeric Materials: Thermoset/Polymer Mechanics "場次 9:00-9:20。 
二、與會心得 
(一)    8/23( 週 一 ) 上 午 之 ” From Molecules to Macromolecules: Towards 
Self-Assembling Materials”分組研討會(POLY Division)，共有 7 篇論文發表，題目分別為：
(1) Self-assembling bioactive materials, (2) TEThER: A flexible mix and match system for 
protein-based biotemplating, (3) Hierarchically ordered structures enabled by evaporative 
self-assembly: From conjugated polymers, polymer lends to diblock copolymers, 
(4)Self-assembly with organboron polymers, (5) Block moledular brushes in solution-state 
self-assembly: Nanoscopic precursors with increasing complexity, (6) Programming and 
regulating self-assembly processes of block copolymers towards the formation of anisotropic 
nanostructures, and (7) From molecules to materials。筆者藉由聽講不同之演講內容，不但
能增廣見聞，對未來在 self-assembling materials 之研究，亦有不少助益及啟發。 
(二)    8/23( 週一 ) 下午之 ” Nanoscience in Polymer Chemistry: Synthesis 
Development”分組研討會(POLY Division)，共有九篇論文發表，題目分別為：(1) Synthesis 
of metal-coordination polymer nanoshells with variable size and shape, (2) 
Asymmetrically-functionalized nanoparticles with orthogonal clickable functionalities, (3) 
Synthesis of CaCO3 and BaCO3 hollow nanospheres templated by polymeric micelles with 
 4
三、建議 
大學教授除了平日在專業期刊發表論文之外，亦應適時地在國際學術研討會上口頭
發表重要之論文。口頭論文發表時，亦應充分準備內容，注重簡報技巧及流暢之外語表
達能力，方能在國際場合上實質提昇我國之學術聲譽。 
高分子研究領域除了美國化學會年會(ACS)外，AIChE 年會、美國塑膠工程師學會
年會(SPE)等亦為口頭論文發表及與國際學術及工業界人士交換研究心得之理想場合。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
此次會議未攜回任何資料，但 ACS 的 PMSE 部門則在會前寄來了此次年會的論文
集(preprint)光碟片。 
 
五、其他 (論文摘要及全文) 
 Effects of Submicron and Nano-scale Core-
Shell Rubber on the Volume Shrinkage in 
the Cure of Vinyl Ester Resins 
 
Yan-Jyi Huang*, Hann-Wen Chang, Jiunn-Hann Huang,  
Tyng-Yeu Hsu, and Yeu-Shiuan Hsieh 
 
Department of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University of 
Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 106, Republic of China 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The fractional volume shrinkages for unsaturated polyester resins 
(UP)1 and  vinyl ester resins (VER)2 during the cure have been 
reported to be 7-10% and  5-9%, respectively.  Adding specific 
thermoplastic polymers as low profile additives (LPA) in UP resins can 
lead to a reduction or even elimination of the polymerization shrinkage 
during the cure3.  By employing non-reactive LPA4, microvoids5 can be 
generated during the cure, which can then compensate for the volume 
shrinkage.  In contrast, by employing reactive LPA6-7, the intrinsic 
polymerization shrinkage may be reduced, which is due to the 
reduction in cyclization reaction of UP resin during the cure caused by 
the favorable intermolecular crosslinking reaction between UP and 
reactive LPA. 
The objective of this work is to investigate the effects of 
submicron and nano-scale core-shell rubber (CSR) as an LPA on the 
volume shrinkage characteristics in the cure of vinyl ester resins (VER) 
at 110oC. 
EXPERIMENTAL 
Materials. One epoxy resin (EPR) and one vinyl ester resin (VER) 
and were synthesized8-9, where bisphenol-A (BPA) epoxy was made 
from BPA and epichlorohydrin at a molar ratio of 1:10 by solution 
polymerization at 70oC first.  The obtained BPA epoxy then reacted 
with methacrylic acid (MAA) at a molar ratio of 1:2.14 by bulk 
polymerization at 80oC (1hr), 100oC (2hr), 115oC (1hr), and 120oC (2hr) 
in a stage-wise manner to obtain VER.  The molecular characteristics 
of the EPR and VER resins are summarized in Table I.  
The submicron and nano-scale core-shell rubbers (CSR), with 
poly(butyl acrylate) (PBA) as the core and poly(methyl methacrylate) 
(PMMA) as the shell, were synthesized by two-stage soapless 
emulsion10-11  and mini-emulsion12-14 polymerizations, respectively. 
The shells of the CSR were also modified by introducing ethylene 
glycol dimethacrylate (EGDMA) as a crosslinking agent and varied 
amounts of glycidyl methacrylate (GMA) as a comonomer. The 
properties of the three types of CSRs with three different size of 30 nm, 
60nm, and 240nm synthesized in this study, including BA/MMA-
EGDMA (i.e. G0 type), BA/MMA-EGDMA-GMA(5) (i.e. G1 type), and 
BA/MMA-EGDMA-GMA(10) (i.e. G2 type), are summarized in Table 2. 
For the sample solution of St/VER/CSR, 0%, 5% or 10% by wt. of 
CSR was added, while  the molar ratio of styrene to vinyl ester C=C 
bonds was fixed at MR = 2/1.  The sample solutions were mixed at 
60oC for one hour with a stirring speed of 1200 rpm. The reaction was 
initiated by 1% by weight of tert- butyl perbenzoate (TBPB).  All the 
cure reactions were carried out at 110oC isothermally for one hour. 
For the sample solution with pigments, 10% by weight of 
Bordeaux Red was added as pigments. 
Instrumentation and Procedure.  The compatibility of 
St/VER/CSR systems at 25oC and at 110oC prior to reaction9,11,15, 
cure kinetics of the ternary systems by DSC16-18, cured sample 
morphology for the fractured surface by SEM19-20, and cured sample 
morphology by TEM11,20 and OM20 have been investigated.  The 
relative quantity of microcracking in the morphology sample under OM 
was also measured by means of an image analyzer19-20.  Volume 
shrinkage and color depth21 of the cured sample were measured by 
density methods19-20 and by using a chromameter (Minolta, CR-300) 
respectively.  The glass transition temperature (Tg) in the major 
continuous phase of styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester for St/VER/CSR 
ternary systems was measured by the methods of dynamic 
mechanical analysis18,22. 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The molecular polarity of vinyl ester (VE) and the shell of CSR was 
evaluated in terms of the calculated dipole moment per unit 
volume9,15, µ/V1/2 (Table 3).  It was lower for VE than that for the shell 
of CSR (0.0618 vs. 0.0723-0.0737).  
In general, the higher the polarity difference per unit volume 
between VER and the shell of CSR, the less compatibility for the 
St/VER/CSR system at 25oC and at 110oC prior to reaction.  Data in 
Table 3 reveal that the St/VER/CSR system containing G2 type of 
CSR would theoretically be the least compatible (|µ’VER - µ’Shell of CSR| = 
0.0119), followed by the G1-CSR system (|µ’VER - µ’Shell of CSR| = 
0.0112),  and the G0-CSR system would be the most compatible 
(|µ’VER - µ’Shell of CSR| = 0.0105).  This is generally in agreement with the 
static phase characteristics data for the uncured St/VER/CSR systems 
at 110oC (Table 4), where the phase separation time for G2-30 CSR 
system was the shortest, followed by the G1-30 CSR and G0-30 CSR 
systems.  
During the cure at 110oC for the eighteen St/VER/CSR systems, 
SEM micrographs (Figures 1-3) show that a two phase microstructure, 
consisting of a major continuous phase of styrene-crosslinked vinyl 
ester and a CSR-rich dispersed phase, would result. 
For the St/VER/G0-CSR ternary systems (Fig. 1),  at a fixed 
particle size of G0-CSR at either 30 nm (i.e. G0-30, Fig. 1(a)-(b)) or 
240 nm (i.e. G0-240, Fig. 1(e)-(f)), the system containing 10 wt% CSR 
would be more incompatible than that of  5 wt% CSR, whereas the 
trend was reversed for the G0-60 system (Fig. 1(c)-(d)).  At a fixed 
CSR content at either 5 wt% or 10 wt%, the compatibility of the 
St/VER/G0-CSR system was decreased as the CSR size added was 
increased from 30nm, to 60 nm, and to 240 nm. (cf. Fig. 1(a), (c), and 
(e); cf. Fig. 1(b), (d), and (f)) 
For the St/VER/G1-CSR ternary systems (Fig. 2), irrespective of 
the CSR size, the system containing 10 wt% CSR would be more 
incompatible than that of  5 wt% CSR.  At a fixed CSR content at 
either 5 wt% or 10 wt%, the compatibility of the St/VER/G1-CSR 
system was decreased as the CSR size added was increased from 
30nm to 60 nm.  Further increasing the CSR size to 240 nm would 
lead to an increase in the compatibility of the ternary system during the 
cure, which is due to the increase of viscosity of the ternary system 
and the concomitant slower rate of phase separation during the cure. 
(cf. Fig. 2(a), (c), and (e); cf. Fig. 2(b), (d), and (f)) 
For the St/VER/G2-CSR ternary systems (Fig. 3), irrespective of 
the CSR size, the system containing 10 wt% CSR would be more 
compatible than that of  5 wt% CSR, which is in contrast to the G1-
CSR systems in Fig. 2.  At a fixed CSR content at either 5 wt% or 10 
wt%, the compatibility of the St/VER/G1-CSR system was increased 
as the CSR size added was increased from 30nm to 60 nm, which is 
due to the increase of viscosity of the ternary system and the 
concomitant slower rate of phase separation during the cure.  Further 
increasing the CSR size to 240 nm would lead to a decrease in the 
compatibility of the ternary system during the cure. (cf. Fig. 3(a), (c), 
and (e); cf. Fig. 3(b), (d), and (f)) 
For the three 5% G-60 CSR systems (Figs. 1(c), 2(c), and 3(c)) 
the compatibility showed an increase and then a decrease as the 
CSR-containing ternary system was changed from G0-CSR, G1-CSR, 
and G2-CSR.  For all the other fifteen systems, at fixed concentration 
and size of CSR added, the higher concentration of GMA introduced in 
the shell of CSR would lead to the less compatibility of St/VER/CSR 
system during the cure.  (i.e. the G2-CSR system < the G1-CSR 
system < the G0-CSR system with an increasing order of compatibility) 
For the cured CSR-containing VER systems with their 
characteristic morphologies, their mechanical behavior can be 
approximately represented by the Takayanagi models22, where arrays 
of weak LPA (R) and stiff styrene-crosslinked vinyl ester (P) phases 
are employed (not shown).  For all of the eighteen St/VER/CSR 
systems,  the two-phase microstructure can be represented by a P-(P-
P-S) model (not shown). 
The volume shrinkage of the neat VER was about 6.8%, while 
adding 5 or 10 wt % different CSRs, such as  G-30, G-60, and G-240, 
can reduce the volume shrinkage to the range of -0.9% (volume 
expansion) to 5.8%  (Table 5).  Not enough or too much phase 
separation during the cure of St/VER/CSR systems would be 
unfavorable for the volume shrinkage control. (cf Figs. 1-3 and Table 5) 
With 5 or 10 wt% of nano-scale CSR (30 nm or 60 nm) added in 
the St/VER/CSR systems, 10 wt% CSR system would generally result 
Polymeric Materials: Science & Engineering 2010, 103, 517
  
Table 3. Calculated Molar Volumes and Dipole Moments for VER 
and the Shell of CSR 
UP or Shell of 
CSR 
Molar 
Volume 
(cm3/mol) 
Dipole Moment per 
Unit Volume µ’  
( =(µ2/V)1/2 ) (debye/ 
cm3/2) 
µ’ Shell o f 
CSR  -µ’ 
VER 
(a) resin    
VER 421.75 0.0618  
    
(b) Shell of CSR    
G0 82.37 0.0723 0.0105 
G1 82.45 0.0730 0.0112 
G2 82.52 0.0737 0.0119 
 
 
Table 4. Phase Separation Characteristics for St/VER/10%G-30 
Uncured Systems at 25 and 110oC, and Final Conversions of Total 
C=C Bonds by DSC for St/VER/10%G-30 Systems Cured at 110oC 
CSR 
Added 
Simple 
Codes 
tp(25)a 
(min) 
wu(25)b 
(%) 
tp(110)a 
(min) 
wu(110)b 
(%) α(%)
c 
Neat VER      82.1 
BA/MMA-
EGDMA G0-30 ∞
d - 540 62.9 78.8 
BA/MMA-
EGDMA-
GMA(5) 
G1-30 ∞d - 250 65.2 81.1 
BA/MMA-
EGDMA-
GMA(10) 
G2-30 ∞d - 140 67.6 84.0 
a: phase separation time (min) at 25 (i.e. tp(25)) and 110oC (i.e. 
tp(110)); b: relative wt. of upper layer (%) at 25 (i.e. wu(25)) and 110oC 
(i.e. wu(110)); c: final cure conv. of total C=C bonds at 110oC by DSC; 
d: one phase (after 1440 min). 
 
Table 5.  Volume Shrinkage, ∆V/V0, and Difference in Molecular 
Polarity Between Resin Matrix and the Shell of CSR for Molded 
Parts for St/VER/G-CSR Systems Cured at 110oC for 1 Hr. 
CSR 
Added 
Wt % of 
CSR 
Added 
Relative 
fraction of 
microvoids, 
vm 
-∆V/V0 (%) 
Polarity difference 
Between Resin 
Matrix and the 
Shell of CSR, 
|µ’matrix - µ’shell of CSR |  
(debye/cm3/2) 
Neat VER 0 0 6.76 (0.16) a - 
G0-30 5  0 5.80 (0.11) 0.0105 10  0 3.40 (0.08) 0.0105 
G0-60 5  0 2.88 (0.05) 0.0105 10  0 3.17 (0.08) 0.0105 
G0-240 5  0.002 4.40 (0.13) 0.0105 10  0 4.83(0.14) 0.0105 
G1-30 5  0 2.82 (0.09) 0.0112 10  0 1.78 (0.03) 0.0112 
G1-60 5  0 5.71 (0.11) 0.0112 10  0 1.27 (0.06) 0.0112 
G1-240 5  0 0.94(0.04) 0.0112 10  0 3.86 (0.03) 0.0112 
G2-30 5  0 2.40 (0.06) 0.0119 10  0.002 3.30 (0.05) 0.0119 
G2-60 5  0 2.88(0.08) 0.0119 10  0.008 0.21(0.06) 0.0119 
G2-240 5  0 3.09(0.03) 0.0119 10  0.004 -0.87(0.06) 0.0119 
a: The values in parentheses represent the estimated standard errors. 
 
                                                 
            (a)                         (b)                            (c)                         (d)                                        
           
            (e)                              (f) 
 
Figure 1. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale and submicron G0-
CSR on cured sample morphologies for St/VER/G0-CSR systems as 
observed by SEM at 1000X.  (a) 5 wt% G0-30, (b) 10 wt% G0-30, (c)5 
wt% G0-60, (d) 10 wt% G0-60, (e) 5wt% G0-240, and (f) 10wt% G0-
240. 
 
                                                      
             (a)                           (b)                            (c)                            
(d) 
                                
            (e)                            (f) 
 
Figure 2. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale and submicron G1-
CSR on cured sample morphologies for St/VER/G1-CSR systems as 
observed by SEM at 1000X.  (a) 5 wt% G1-30, (b) 10 wt% G1-30, (c)5 
wt% G1-60, (d) 10 wt% G1-60, (e) 5wt% G1-240, and (f) 10wt% G1-
240. 
 
         
             (a)                          (b)                          (c)                           (d)                               
                       
             (e)                           (f) 
 
Figure 3. Effects of 5 and 10 wt% of nano-scale and submicron G2-
CSR on cured sample morphologies for St/VER/G2-CSR systems as 
observed by SEM at 1000X.  (a) 5 wt% G2-30, (b) 10 wt% G2-30, (c)5 
wt% G2-60, (d) 10 wt% G2-60, (e) 5wt% G2-240, and (f) 10wt% G2-
240. 
Polymeric Materials: Science & Engineering 2010, 103, 519
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃延吉 計畫編號：97-2221-E-011-014-MY3 
計畫名稱：以 RAFT 活自由基聚合法合成奈米級核殼型橡膠及無機/有機核殼型顆粒添加劑及探討其對
乙烯基酯樹脂及環氧樹脂之聚合固化行為及性質之影響 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 4 100%  
博士生 0 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□達成目標 
■未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
■其他原因 
說明： 
本計畫之達成目標至少為 70%。Living core-shell rubber 之增韌研究(部份第二年計畫)
及 Nano-scale polymer-grafted silica 之增韌及体積收縮研究(部份第三年計畫)，因難度
較高，未能達成預期目標。(未來如何突破，請參閌後續之說明 3及完整之結案報告。) 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
研究成果已於美國化學會年會中發表三篇會議論文 (2009, 2010, and 2011 American 
Chemical Society (ACS ) Annual Meeting)。目錄如下。研究成果正準備投稿中。 
 
(1)Yan-Jyi Huang et al., 2009, Polymeric Materials: Science &amp； Engineering, 
101, 891-893. 
(2)Yan-Jyi Huang et al., 2010, Polymeric Materials: Science &amp； Engineering, 
103, 517-519.  
(3)Yan-Jyi Huang et al., 2011. Polymeric Materials: Science &amp； Engineering, 
105, 850-853. 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
(1) The content of this research has been at least 70% in agreement with that of 
the original proposal. 
(2) The findings resulting from this research pertain to the application-oriented 
fundamental research, which will be suitable to be published in the foreign 
academic research journals, such as, Polymer, J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem., 
J. Appl. Polym. Sci., and Polym. Eng. Sci. 
(3) In the future, more effort will be devoted to the following research content: 
(i) toughening of epoxy and vinyl ester resin systems by nano-scale living 
