This article appeared in a journal published by Elsevier. The attached
copy is furnished to the author for internal non-commercial research
and education use, including for instruction at the authors institution
and sharing with colleagues.
Other uses, including reproduction and distribution, or selling or
licensing copies, or posting to personal, institutional or third party
websites are prohibited.
In most cases authors are permitted to post their version of the
article (e.g. in Word or Tex form) to their personal website or
institutional repository. Authors requiring further information
regarding Elsevier’s archiving and manuscript policies are
encouraged to visit:
http://www.elsevier.com/copyright
Author's personal copy
Various ROI processing and feature extraction methods for image
analysis are employed to reﬂect the development stage due to the
large difference of epiphyses shapes in each stage. For the early stage
of development, regions of interest are subjected to an image
segmentation procedure, which separates the epiphysis from the
metaphysis. A wavelet analysis is used when the epiphyseal fusion
starts [10]. As the development of epiphysis and metaphysis is not
considered sufﬁciently under a priori age range constraint, the above-
mentioned papers cannot do well for this issue.
Giordano et al.’s [11] method used three shape factors to
compute the development stage of each bone for child between
1 and 12 years old. Pietka et al. [12–14] proposed a more reﬁned
approach to perform skeletal age assessment. In their approach,
two classiﬁers are introduced for each EMROI: one, for younger
children, uses the distance, shape and size features and another
one, for older children, applies the wavelet features. When both
stages of development interfere and all features are available, the
outputs of both subsystems are averaged. No matter which kind
of these two methods, the stage determination (either early or
later stage) of each EMROI image must be taken as a priori
knowledge for the classiﬁer. So, the implementation of these
classiﬁers is constrained by the selected features obtained from
ROI processing. Moreover, only two bone age stages used are too
cursory for the related selected features according to the analysis
of actual development of epiphysis and metaphysis.
From the above observation it is suggested that the stage must
be re-deﬁned and a bone age cluster or stage for a hand radiograph
must be automatically assigned before applying image processing
procedure. Then the corresponding ROI processing and feature
extraction methods employed for classiﬁer could be identiﬁed to
avoid taking a priori knowledge about the stage of each ROI
development [11–14]. Therefore, a ﬂexible and reliable classiﬁca-
tion can be provided to manage these ROI images from ambiguity.
The presented improved CABAA system is shown in Fig. 3.
In what follows, a detailed description of the presented bone
age cluster assessment scheme based on phalangeal image rough
segmentation using fuzzy neural network (FNN) is given. This
system includes two parts. The ﬁrst part adjusts the feature
weights to stable according to four deﬁned bone age clusters,
which satisfy feature development of epiphysis and metaphysis.
A bone age cluster assessment on hand radiography is processed
in the second part using the ﬁnal feature weights obtained in the
ﬁrst part. Furthermore, a feature clustering analysis is presented
to provide the identiﬁed image analysis method and the quanti-
tative evaluation of speciﬁc features for ﬁnal BAA.
Experimental results show that the presented FNN system
provides a very good ability to assign a hand radiograph to a
suitable bone age cluster or stage and demonstrates the rationality
of our new deﬁned stages. Our dataset contains a total number of
600 normal child left-hand-wrist radiographs (0–14 years old)
provided by Taichung Veterans General Hospital, where 40 radio-
graphs per age group have been collected and nine EMROIs of the II,
III, and IV phalanges are extracted from each radiograph.
2. Stage and feature analysis
Based on the Tanner and Whitehouse (TW2, TW3) [3,4]
methods, the feature development of epiphysis and metaphysis
could be applied to feature analysis for BAA. According to most
previously proposed schemes [7–14], the related EMROI proces-
sing techniques are various depending on the characteristics of
different stages of bone maturity, which usually are taken as a
priori knowledge. These ROI processing methods such as segmen-
tation and wavelet decomposition are applied to early and later
stages, respectively. The results (as marked in Fig. 4) served as a
basis for further feature extraction. All features are grouped into
four sets according to the suggestion of Giordano et al. [11] and
Pietka et al. [12–14] and illustrated in Table 1.
Image Processing
Segmentation/ 
Wavelet Decomposition
Hand
Radiograph ROI Extraction
Image 
Preprocessing 
Feature Extraction and 
Feature SelectionClassifierBone Age
a priori knowledge about bone age stage for classifier selection
Fig. 1. Computer-assisted BAA (CABAA) system.
Fig. 2. (a–d) Epiphyseal/metaphyseal ROI at various stages of skeletal development.
Fig. 3. The improved computer-assisted BAA (CABAA) system.
dis_m_l
d_meta
dh_epi
(dnv1 … dnv5)
dis_m_e
epi_area,
area1 … area6
Original 
subregion
Level 1
Diagonal
Level 1
horizontal
Level 1
vertical
Approximation
Fig. 4. The results of ROI processing using segmentation and wavelet decomposi-
tion: epiphyseal and metaphyseal diameters (dh_epi, d_meta), vertical diameters
(dnv1ydnv5), distance between a metaphysis and diaphysis (dist_m_l), distance
between a metaphysis and epiphysis (dist_m_e), epiphyseal area (epi_area), area
of epiphyseal sectors (area1yarea6). (a) The segmented EMROI. (b) Wavelet
decomposition.
H.-H. Lin et al. / Pattern Recognition 45 (2012) 322–332 323
Author's personal copy
Distal of
phalange 
Middle of
phalange 
Proximal of
phalange 
Distal of
phalange 
Middle of
phalange 
Proximal of
phalange 
Fig. 5. Segmented results for various bone ages (0–14 years old). (a) Bone age: 0–1. (b) Bone age: 2–3. (c) Bone age: 3–4. (d) Bone age: 4–5. (e) Bone age: 5–8. (f) Bone age:
7–10. (g) Bone age: 9–11. (h) Bone age: 11–14.
Table 2
The range of RD values for all proximal of II phalanges and corresponding bone age.
Bone age 0 1 2 3 4
RD 0–0.343 0–0.547 0–0.602 0.335–0.906 0.434–0.860
Bone age 5 6 7 8 9
RD 0.660–1.039 0.659–1.125 0.689–1.178 0.877–1.241 0.909–1.321
Bone age 10 11 12 13 14
RD 0.985–1.343 1.041–1.259 1.029–1.399 1.201–N/A 1.242–N/A
H.-H. Lin et al. / Pattern Recognition 45 (2012) 322–332 325
Author's personal copy
feature clustering system is the key point now. To deal with the
ambiguity and merge fuzzy values, fuzzy neural networks (FNN)
are suitable candidates to reach this requirement.
Nine feature weights must be decided and must satisfy the
feature development of epiphysis and metaphysis in training part
for further using in application part to get a bone age cluster
assessment. Usually, the neural network is trained using one of
supervised learning algorithms. The best known example is
backpropagation, which uses the output data to adjust the net-
work’s weights and threshold so as to minimize the error in its
prediction on the training set. Thus a backpropagation FNN is
employed in the training part.
3. The bone age cluster assessment using the fuzzy neural
network
The presented bone age cluster assessment system includes
two parts. The ﬁrst part is the training part, which adjusts the
feature weights extracted from nine EMROIs to stable. The second
part is an application part, which performs the bone age cluster
assessment on hand radiography according to the ﬁnal feature
weights obtained from the training part. A well known FNN
[18–20] is applied to the system, which comprises the following
fundamental elements: (1) a mechanism of fuzzy reasoning to
handle uncertain information, (2) an artiﬁcial neural network to
form a learning system, and (3) the supervised learning algorithm
allowing the proposed FNN to own the capability of self-adapta-
tion of selected feature weight adjustment.
3.1. The training part of FNN
The net algorithm of this FNN designed in this part is
initialized by ten features, which includes nine RD values derived
from extracted features of epiphysis and metaphysis and a clinical
BA (CBA) of the hand radiography as the input. Then these crisp
RD values are fuzziﬁed to nine fuzzy patterns based on the
corresponding group of membership functions given in Fig. 7.
The CBA is also fuzziﬁed to nine fuzzy patterns according to the
corresponding group of membership functions given in Fig. 8. The
output is inferred from fuzzy rules, which are established by
the similarity of RD fuzzy patterns and CBA fuzzy patterns. The
feature weights are adjusted using supervised learning algorithm
to get the maximal similarity. Fig. 9 shows the structure of
training part of fuzzy neural network system.
The proposed FNN structure is a general four-layer structure
consisting of the input layer, membership layer, rule layer, and
output layer. The nodes in the input layer represent the input
variables (features). Those nodes in the membership layer act as
the membership functions. Moreover, all the nodes in the rule
layer represent a fuzzy rule base. Finally, a degree of similarity is
derived as the output. The signal propagation and the basic
function of each layer are elaborated in the following:
Layer 1: Input layer
For each node i in this layer, the net input node neti
(1) and
output yi
(1) are deﬁned by
netð1Þi ¼ x
ð1Þ
i , y
ð1Þ
i ¼ f ð1Þðnet
ð1Þ
i Þ ¼ net
ð1Þ
i , i¼ 1, 2, . . ., 10: ð2Þ
xð1Þi is the ith input to the ith node of layer 1. The input includes
ten features; they are nine RD values derived from extracted
features of epiphysis and metaphysis and a CBA value. f ð1Þðnetð1Þi Þ
the transfer function for the ith input neti
(1) of layer 1.
Layer 2: Membership layer
Each node of the ﬁrst nine nodes presents a RD fuzzy pattern
(RDFP) obtained by employing the corresponding group of RD
membership functions (RDMF) shown in Fig. 7. Each node of the
last nine nodes presents a bone age fuzzy pattern (BAFP) obtained
by employing the corresponding group of bone age membership
functions (BAMF) shown in Fig. 8. The net input node neti
(2) and
output yi
(2) for the ﬁrst nine nodes in membership layer are
deﬁned by
netð2Þi ¼ yið1Þ, y
ð2Þ
i ¼ f ð2Þðnet
ð2Þ
i Þ ¼ RDMFiðy
ð1Þ
i Þ ¼ RDFPi, i¼ 1, 2, . . ., 9:
ð3Þ
The net input node neti0
(2) and output yi0
(2) for the last nine nodes
in this layer are deﬁned by
netð2Þi0 ¼ y10ð1Þ, y
ð2Þ
i0 ¼ f ð2Þðnet
ð2Þ
i0 Þ ¼ BAMF
ð2Þ
i0 ðy
ð1Þ
10 Þ ¼ BAFPi0 ,i0 ¼ 1, 2, . . ., 9:
ð4Þ
RDMFi is the ith RD group of membership functions for absent,
small, large, and fusion (see Fig. 7). BAMFi0, the ith BA group of
membership functions for stage I, stage II, stage III, and stage IV
(see Fig. 8). RDFPi, the fuzzy pattern according to the ith input
feature yi
(1) and RDMFi, which consists of the degrees of four
feature clusters for each RDMFi. Each pattern is represented as
Input layer
Membership 
layer
Rule layer
Output layer
x1 x10
s1
w1
Σ
x2 x9
s2 s3 s4 s5 s6 s7 s8 s9
w2 w3 w4 w5 w6 w7 w8 w9
x3 x4 x5 x6 x7 x8
y
Fig. 9. The structure of training part of fuzzy neural network system.
H.-H. Lin et al. / Pattern Recognition 45 (2012) 322–332 327
Author's personal copy
maximum activation function is applied to get the output. Fig. 10
shows the entire structure of this fuzzy neural network system.
The proposed FNN structure is also a general four-layer
structure consists of the input layer, membership layer, rule layer,
and output layer. The nodes in the input layer represent the input
variables (features). Those nodes in the membership layer act as
the membership functions. Moreover, all the nodes in the rule
layer represent a fuzzy rule base. Finally, a bone age cluster with
the maximal output degree is derived as the output. The signal
propagation and the basic function of each layer are elaborated in
the following:
Layer 1: Input layer
For each node i in this layer, the net input node neti
(1) and
output yi
(1) are deﬁned by
netð1Þi ¼ x
ð1Þ
i ,
yð1Þi ¼ f ð1Þðnet
ð1Þ
i Þ ¼ net
ð1Þ
i , i¼ 1, 2, . . ., 9: ð10Þ
xi
(1) is the ith input to the ith node of layer 1. The input includes
nine RD values derived from extracted features of epiphysis and
metaphysis. f (1)(neti
(1)), the transfer function for the ith input
neti
(1) of layer 1.
Layer 2: Membership layer
Each node presents a RD fuzzy pattern (RDFP) obtained by
employing the corresponding group of RD membership functions
(RDMF) shown in Fig. 7. The net input node neti
(2) and output yi
(2)
for the nodes in membership layer are deﬁned by
netð2Þi ¼ y
ð1Þ
i , y
ð2Þ
i ¼ f ð2Þðnet
ð2Þ
i Þ ¼ RDMFiðy
ð1Þ
i Þ ¼ RDFPi, i¼ 1, 2, . . ., 9:
ð11Þ
RDMFi is the ith RD group of membership functions for absent,
small, large, and fusion (see Fig. 7). RDFPi, the fuzzy pattern
according to the ith input feature yi
(1) and RDMFi, which consists
of the degrees of four feature clusters for each RDMFi. Each
pattern is represented as
ðwabsent, iðyð1Þi Þ, wsmall, iðy
ð1Þ
i Þ, wlarge, iðy
ð1Þ
i Þ, wfusion,iðy
ð1Þ
i ÞÞ,
where wC(x) represents the membership value of x for fuzzy set C.
Layer 3: Rule layer
The node in this layer is obtained from fuzzy rule, which is
established by the sum of multiplying the incoming signal with
weight (feature weight) and the output also forms a fuzzy pattern.
The net input node net(3) and output y(3) are deﬁned by
netð3Þ ¼ ðyð2Þ1 , yð2Þ2 , . . ., yð2Þ9 Þ, yð3Þ ¼ f ð3Þðnetð3ÞÞ ¼
X9
i ¼ 1
wiy
ð2Þ
i : ð12Þ
wi is the ith ﬁnal feature weight derive from the ﬁrst part.
y(3) a fuzzy pattern represented as ðwstage I, ið
P
wiy
ð1Þ
i Þ, wstage II,
iðPwiyð1Þi Þ, wstage III, iðPwiyð1Þi Þ,wstage VI, iðPwiyð1Þi ÞÞ.
Layer 4: Output layer
The only one node in this layer transfers the input singal into a
bone age cluster by extracting the cluster, which has the maximal
degree for the input fuzzy pattern. That is, the transfer function of
the node is the maximum activation function and can be treated
as a defuzziﬁcation operation.
The input node net(4) and output y(4) are deﬁned by
netð4Þ ¼ yð3Þ yð4Þ ¼ f ð4Þðnetð4ÞÞ ¼ BAC ð13Þ
BAC is the bone age cluster which has the maximal degree in the
input fuzzy pattern.
According to the rule of output layer in application part of
presented FNN system, the ﬁnial bone age cluster (BAC) should be
assigned to the cluster which has the maximal output degree of
the input fuzzy pattern. The reason is illustrated as follows:
1. The feature development degree of epiphysis and metaphysis
must be similar and consistent for all EMROIs on the same
hand radiograph [3,4]. That is, nine RD values (the ratio
between diameters of metaphysis and epiphysis) extracted
from the same hand radiograph are close to each other.
2. As a matter fact, each RD value could be included in at most
two adjacent stages for any sample. The group with the
maximal output degree means that this feature group can
detect the maximal similarity of these nine EMROIs taken from
the same radiograph.
3. Bone age clustering in this step is developed to classify an
input image into a most suitable feature cluster (see Table 6),
which provides enough characters for further and more pre-
cise bone age assessment on the covered range. The range
overlapping does not affect the best feature cluster selection
and system’s ﬁnal bone age assessment.
4. Performance analysis
A total of 600 left-hand-wrist radiographs (0–14 years old) are
collected for evaluations, which are provided by the Taichung
Veterans General Hospital. These samples are divided into two sets,
the ﬁrst set of 400 images is used for training, and the remaining 200
images are used for testing in the presented FNN with a maximum
epoch value, 500. Here, the training samples are chosen from a
Input layer
Membership 
layer
Rule layer
Output layer
x1
w1
y
x2 x9
w2 w3 w4 w5 w6 w7 w8 w9
x3 x4 x5 x6 x7 x8
Fig. 10. The structure of the application part of fuzzy neural network system.
Table 3
Parameters for training phase.
Parameter Value
Number of layer 4
Number of neurons in the input layer 10
Number of neurons in the membership layers 18
Number of neurons in the rule layers 9
Number of neurons in the input layer 1
Learning rate 0.2
MSE 0.001
Number of maximum iteration 500
H.-H. Lin et al. / Pattern Recognition 45 (2012) 322–332 329
Author's personal copy
the MSE for each time and average.
MSE¼ ðNumber of error bone cluster assessmentÞ=N, ð14Þ
where N is the number of features. The running results of MSE in
training phase are shown in Table 5 and Fig. 12. The MSE for
training samples gradually converges. The non-overtraining can
be demonstrated from Fig. 12 that the cross validation error is
virtually always higher than the training error. That is, the
training phase does not have overtraining.
4.4. Feature clustering analysis
Experimental results show that the presented bon age cluster
assessment system provides a very good ability to assign a hand
radiograph to an appropriate bone age cluster and demonstrate
the rationality of those new deﬁned stages.
These features of previously proposed schemes (as shown in
Table 1) should be simultaneously re-assigned into four clusters
to avoid inappropriate and unmeaning feature selection at early
stage or later stage. Table 6 depicts the feature clusters according
to the feature development of epiphysis and metaphysis of each
stage. The related image analysis methods corresponding to
features clusters are simultaneously identiﬁed. Methods proposed
in [15–17] for segmentation of epiphyseal/metaphyseal region
can be used for stage I–III and wavelet decomposition can be
applied for stage IV to extract the related features.
By these new deﬁned stages and corresponding features,
signiﬁcant, and appropriate characteristics can be identiﬁed for
suitable EMROI processing techniques.
5. Conclusions
In a CABAA system, a stable and reliable feature extraction is a
most important key point for deciding an applicable classiﬁer.
Thus how to conﬁrm the methods used for feature extraction
before the classiﬁcation procedure is an essential issue. However,
in the implementation of image processing for feature extraction,
an inspected EMROI image belonging to which stage often is a
priori knowledge in most previously proposed schemes [11–14].
If a coarse bone age cluster for a hand radiograph could be
assigned, these corresponding image analysis methods employed
for feature analysis can be identiﬁed at each stage. For the above
purpose it is suggested that the stage must be re-deﬁned and a
bone age cluster or stage for a hand radiograph must be
automatically assigned before applying image processing proce-
dure. Then the corresponding ROI processing and feature extrac-
tion methods employed for classiﬁer could be identiﬁed to avoid
taking a priori knowledge about the stage of each ROI develop-
ment. It overcomes the essentiality of the a priori knowledge
about feature characteristics. In this paper, a bone age cluster
assessment system using the intelligent fuzzy neural network
based on phalangeal image rough segmentation is presented.
We have demonstrated that this bone age cluster assessment
approach can provide a ﬂexible and stable classiﬁcation method
to avoid the unsuitable feature selection of the original two-stage
clustering. This stability improvement, however, depends on the
good prediction ability in the presented FNN system. TheMSE and
the computation error between desired output and actual net-
work output are used to evaluate the performance of stability and
prediction in this paper, respectively.
Furthermore, a feature clustering analysis for the method of
the corresponding ROI processing and feature extraction is dis-
cussed based on the prediction results of FNN system. A new
deﬁned stage separation for skeletal development is presented to
provide a more ﬂexible and reliable BAA system.
There are still some topics not fully investigated for an
integrated CABAA system. Some future works will be carried out
and illustrated as follows.
First, a fully automatic CABAA system for hand radiograph at
each age is not done yet. Although medical studies [15] point out
that, the analysis in carpal bones does not provide accurate and
signiﬁcant information after 9–12 years of age, it still can be
considered for bone age assessment. Then, a friendly graphic user
interface system should be further developed to integrate the
proposed CABAA system and PACS system for clinical use. Finally,
the fundamental medical supports of further researches could
exactly provide children with early diagnosis and effective mon-
itoring of therapies in clinical practice.
Acknowledgment
This research was supported by the National Science Council
R.O.C. under Grant NSC 99-2221-E-005-098.
References
[1] D.B. Darling, Radiography of Infants and Children, 1st ed., Charles C Thomas,
Springﬁeld, IL, 1979.
[2] D.R. Kirks, Practical Pediatric Imaging. Diagnostic Radiology of Infants and
Children, 1st ed., Little, Brown & Co, Boston, MA, 1984.
[3] J.M. Tanner, M.J.R. Healy, H. Goldstein, N. Cameron, Assessment of Skeletal
Maturity and Prediction of Adult Height (TW3 method), WB Saunders,
London, 2001.
[4] J.M. Tanner, R.H. Whitehouse, Assessment of Skeletal Maturity and Prediction
of Adult Height (TW2 Method), Academic Press, London, 1975.
[5] D.G. King, D.M. Steventon, M.P. O’Sullivan, A.M. Cook, V.P. Hornsby,
I.G. Jefferson, Reproducibility of bone ages when performed by radiology
registrars: an audit of Tanner and Whitehouse II versus Greulich and Pyle
methods, Br. J. Radiol. 67 (1994) 848–851.
[6] W.W. Greulich, S.I. Pyl, Radiographic Atlas of Skeletal Development of Hand
Wrist, 2 nd ed., Standford University Press, Stanford, CA, 1971.
[7] C.W. Hsieh, T.L. Jong, C.M. Tiu, The phalangeal morphological characteristics
for bone age recognition, in: Proceedings of the 13th IEEE-NPSS Real Time
Conference, Montreal, Canada, 2003.
Table 6
Suitable features for the proposed stages of skeletal development.
Stage I Stage II Stage III Stage IV
Selected features F1¼ dh_epid_meta F1, F2¼ dist_m_edist_m_l , F3 F1–F6, F7, F10 F12¼ mbonymsoftmbony þmsoft mbcg
F3¼ d_metadist_m_l F4¼ dist_m_edh_epi F8¼ area1þarea6dnv3nd_meta F13¼ ¼ mbonymsoftmbony þmsoft mbcg
F5¼ dh_epindist_m_edist_m_lnd_meta F9¼
area3þarea4
dnv3nd_meta
F14¼E(H)/E(ROI)
F6¼ dh_epindist_m_edist_m_lnd_meta F11¼
area1þarea6
ðdnv_dnv5Þnd_meta F15¼E(Y)/E(ROI)
F7¼ epi_areaepi_hull_area
F10¼ epi_areadh_epind_meta
Image analysis method Image segmentation Wavelet decomposition
H.-H. Lin et al. / Pattern Recognition 45 (2012) 322–332 331
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/06
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 手掌X光影像之骨齡分群系統之研究
計畫主持人: 喻石生
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-005-098- 學門領域: 圖形辨識
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
Pattern Recognition 2010 年 IF=2.682, Ranking:18/247 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
