行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
適用於偏態分配之非對稱管制界限－比較、估計與新方法(I) 
The Asymmetric Control Limits for Skewed Distributions--- 
Comparisons, Estimation, and New Methods (I) 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-033-035 
計畫主持人：陳慧芬教授  中原大學工業與系統工程系 
Email: huifen@cycu.edu.tw 
計畫參與人員：黃彥登、陳余、吳克原、吳智倫、黃超顯、廖家葦  中原大學
工業與系統工程系 
 
 
 中文摘要 
 第一年研究計畫主題是比較 X 與R管制圖的對
稱與非對稱管制界限，假設品質特性值的邊際方配
已知。為了進行公平比較，在相同的管制內平均連
串長度下，比較對稱與非對稱管制界限的管制外平
均連串長度。利用兩個測試例子，實驗結果顯示，
不管 X 或R管制圖，對稱與非對稱管制界限的績效取
決於監控統計量（ X 管制圖是樣本平均數 X 而R管
制圖是全距R）的偏度與製程偏移的方向。即使品質
特性值的分配是非對稱的，非對稱管制界限未必比
對稱管制界限佳。 
1. Introduction 
 
For the first-year research project, we consider the 
setting of control limits for the Shewhart X  and R 
charts. The X  and R charts are commonly used 
powerful tools in statistical process control to monitor 
the process mean and variation.  The conventional 
way of using X  and R charts is to choose a set of 
symmetric control limits, e.g., the 3-sigma control 
limits.  Methods of computing asymmetric control 
limits have been proposed for skewed distributions.  
In this work, we raise the question: Are the asymmetric 
control limits really better than the symmetric limits for 
skewed distributions?  
關鍵詞：非對稱管制界限、自相關資料、平均串連
長度、R管制圖、 X 管制圖、偏態分配  
 
Abstract Methods of constructing asymmetric control limits 
for skewed distributions have been proposed. Cowden 
[1] proposes a split distribution method for skewed 
distributions.  Ferrell [2] proposes geometric 
midrange and range charts for a lognormal distribution 
as a replacement of the Shewhart X  and R charts.  
Nelson [3] provides control limits for the median, 
range, scale, and location charts for the Weibull 
distribution. 
This first-year research problem is to compare the 
symmetric and asymmetric control limits for the X  
and R charts, under the assumption that the marginal 
distribution of the quality measurement is known.  To 
make a fair comparison, we compare the out-of-control 
ARLs (average run lengths) of the symmetric and 
asymmetric limits, while keeping the corresponding 
in-control ARL at a fixed value.  Two testing 
examples are used.    Our results show that for both 
X  and R charts, the performance of the symmetric 
and asymmetric limits depend on the skewness of the 
charting statistic (sample mean X  for the X  chart 
and sample range R for the R chart) and the shift 
direction.  Neither type of the control limits dominates 
even when the quality characteristic has a skewed 
distribution.   
Besides these methods, another approach of 
setting asymmetric control limits is to adjust the 
symmetric limits to asymmetric limits.  For example, 
the Shewhart X  chart asymmetric limits has the form 
( nk /1  , nk /2  ).  Let   denote the 
desired level of the Type I risk for the X  chart, i.e., 
the probability that X  falls outside the control limits 
when the process is actually in control.  (When the 
quality characteristic measurements are independent, 
ARL0 equals 1 /  .)  The values of k1 and k2 are 
determined so that when the process is in control, 
Keywords: asymmetric control limits, autocorrelated 
data, ARL, R chart, X chart, skewed distributions  
  
The associated Type I risk is therefore L/1 .  We 
describe the computation of these two testing examples 
as follows.  
 
(a) Gamma distribution 
Suppose that when the process is in control, the 
quality characteristic X has a gamma distribution with 
lower bound 0, shape parameter 0  and scale 
parameter 0 , denoted as gamma(  ,  ). The 
in-control mean is  =   and variance is = .  
When the process goes out of control, X has a gamma 
distribution with lower bound 
2 2
 , mean   ; 
other higher moments do not change.  If {X1,..., Xn} is 
an independent sample from the gamma(  ,  ) 
population,  has a gamma(n) distribution.  
For a set of control limits (L, U), the probability that 
 ni 1 iX
X  falls outside the control limits is 
, which can be computed 
numerically using the cdf of gamma(n).   
 ni iX1{P  nL,( nU )}
First consider the symmetric control limits 
nk /  .  The value of k must satisfy 
 
 



 

)(E/P
1
XnnknX
n
i
i , 
 
i.e., solving the equation 
     n/  nknGnnknG /1 ,  (4) 
 
 
for k using numerical root-finding methods, where 
 is the cdf of gamma(n).   )(G
Similarly, the asymmetric control limits in 
Equation (2) can be computed numerically for the 
gamma distribution.  The upper and lower control 
limits are 
 
).2/(LCL
),2/1(UCL
11
11






Gn
Gn
        (5) 
               
Both the symmetric and asymmetric limits have 
the same Type I risk L/1  and ARL0 = L.  We 
compare their associated   values.  Notice 
that = , where the Type II risk 
ARL
1ARL )1(     can 
be computed analogously as the Type I risk.   
 
(b) Johnson unbounded distribution 
 
The Johnson distribution family, proposed by 
Johnson [8], includes four types: normal, lognormal, 
unbound, and bounded distributions.  Each type is a 
transformation of the standard normal distribution.   
Suppose that the quality characteristic follows a 
Johnson unbounded distribution.  The sample mean 
X , however, does not have a Johnson distribution and 
its cdf has no closed form.  For a set of control limits, 
ARL0 and  can not be computed analytically or 
numerically but can be estimated via simulation 
experiments.   
ARL
Computation of the symmetric and asymmetric 
limits that result in a specified ARL0 value is a 
stochastic root finding problem.  We implement the 
retrospective approximation algorithm by Chen and 
Schmeiser [9].   
We run the experiments to compare the 
performance of the symmetric and asymmetric control 
limits for X  charts.  The performance measure is 
 while keeping ARL0 at a specified value.  
Two testing examples are used for comparisons: the 
gamma and Johnson unbounded distributions.  The 
gamma distribution is right skewed; the family of 
Johnson unbounded distributions contains left skewed 
and right skewed distributions.  To make comparisons, 
the symmetric and asymmetric control limits, 
corresponding to a specified ARL0 value are computed.  
The corresponding  values for symmetric and 
asymmetric limits are then compared for given 
ARL
ARL
  
values.  The empirical results show that the 
performance of symmetric and asymmetric limits 
depends on the directions of the skewness and shift  . 
Neither one (symmetric or asymmetric) dominates the 
other. 
We consider the first testing example, where the 
quality characteristic follows a gamma distribution.              
As mentioned earlier, the ARL value for the gamma 
distribution can be computed numerically. Both 
symmetric and asymmetric control limits for 
comparisons have ARL0 = 370, i.e.,  = 1 / ARL0 = 
0.0027.  The parameter values are set as follows: the 
sample size n {2, 5}, shift  {0, .5,   1,  2}, 
and gamma shape parameter  {0.1, 0.5, 1, 2}.  It 
yields 56 experimental points.  Note that the values of 
ARL0 and  are functionally independent of ARL  .   
The  values for the symmetric and 
asymmetric control limits are shown in Table 1.  In 
Table 1, column 1 lists the gamma shape parameter 
ARL
 ; 
column 2 the shift  , columns 3 and 4 the  
value for the symmetric (denoted as sym.) and 
asymmetric (denoted as asym.) limits for n = 2; 
columns 5 and 6 the  value for the symmetric 
and asymmetric limits for n = 5.  For the right skewed 
ARL
ARL
  
the standard deviation has shifted from   to  , 
i.e.,  
   2)Var( ,)E(|)UCL,LCL(P   XXR ()  .     
 
Lower values of   are preferred. ARL
 
(b) Johnson unbounded distribution   
Suppose that the quality characteristic follows a 
Johnson unbounded distribution. The range R, however, 
does not have a Johnson distribution and its cdf has no 
closed form.  For a set of control limits, the Type I 
risk   and Type II risk   (or equivalently ARL0 
and ) can not be computed analytically or 
numerically but can be estimated via simulation 
experiments.   
ARL
Since the distribution function of the range R is 
hard to derive, the mean R  and variance  must 
be estimated via simulation experiments.      
2
R
We use three Johnson unbounded distributions, 
with ( 3 , 4 ) = (2, 11), (2, 70), (5, 70), to compare the 
symmetric and asymmetric control limits.  Two 
sample sizes n = 2 and 5 are used.  The values of Rˆ  
and Rˆ  and their standard error estimates are 
computed with 30,000 micro replications and 100 
macro replications.  These values of Rˆ  and Rˆ  
are used in Table 3 for computing the symmetric 
control limits.   
Computing the values of symmetric and 
asymmetric control limits that result in a specified Type 
I risk   is a stochastic root finding problem.  We 
implement the retrospective approximation algorithm 
by Chen and Schmeiser [9].   
Here we empirically compare the performance of 
the symmetric and asymmetric control limits for R 
charts.  The performance measure is  (the 
out-of-control ARL) while keeping ARL0 (the 
in-control ARL) at a fixed value.  Two testing 
examples (exponential and Johnson unbounded 
distributions) are used for comparisons. To make 
comparisons, the symmetric and asymmetric control 
limits, corresponding to a specified ARL0 value are 
computed. The corresponding  values for 
symmetric and asymmetric limits are then compared 
for several 
ARL
ARL
  values.  Lower values of ARL  is 
preferred.  The empirical results show that the 
performance of symmetric and asymmetric limits 
depends on the directions of the shift 

  and the 
skewness of the range.  Neither one (symmetric or 
asymmetric) dominates the other. 
We consider the first testing example, where the 
quality characteristic follows an exponential 
distribution with mean 1 and standard deviation 1 when 
the process is in control.  As mentioned earlier, the 
cdf of the range R has a closed form and hence, the 
Type I risk and the ARL value can be evaluated 
analytically for the exponential distribution.  (Notice 
that ARL0 = 1/ .)  To make comparisons, both the 
symmetric and asymmetric control limits are computed 
so that their ARL0 = 370.4, i.e.,  = 1 / ARL0 = 0.0027.  
The parameter values are set as follows: the sample 
size n {2, 5}, the shift  {0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3} and 
the exponential parameter  =1.  (Notice that the 
value of  does not depend on ARL  .)  It yields 
10 experimental points.  Furthermore, we assume that 
when the process goes out of control, the standard 
deviation shifts from   to  .  Let X1 and X2 
denote the quality characteristic measurements for the 
in-control and out-of-control processes.  The relation 
between  X1 and X2 is X2 =  )1( 1 X .  We use 
this relation to compute . ARL
The  values for the symmetric and 
asymmetric control limits are shown in Table 2.  In 
Table 2, column 1 lists the shift 
ARL
 , columns 2 and 3 
the  for the symmetric (denoted as Sym.) and 
asymmetric (denoted as Asym.) limits for n = 2; 
columns 4 and 5  the  for the symmetric and 
asymmetric limits for n = 5.  Table 2 shows that the 
symmetric control limits perform better (with lower 
) than the asymmetric limits when 
ARL

ARL
ARL 1  and 
worse when 1 .  Notice that for the exponential 
population distribution, the range R has a positive 
skewness.   
 
Table 2 
The  values of the symmetric and asymmetric control limits for the 
exponential population with the in-control standard deviation 
ARL
 =1, ARL0 = 
370.4, sample size n = 2, 5, and shift   =0.5, 1, 1.5, 2 ,3  
 
 n = 2 n = 5 
  Sym. ARL  
Asym. 
ARL  
Sym. 
ARL  
Asym. 
ARL  
0.5 
1 
1.5 
2 
3 
137205 
370.4 
51.6 
19.3 
7.2 
370.4 
370.4 
76.3 
26.7 
9.0 
547586 
370.4 
32.8 
10.0 
3.3 
69.3 
370.4 
51.1 
14.0 
4.0 
 
Finally we compare the symmetric and 
asymmetric control limits for the Johnson unbounded 
distribution.  Suppose that the quality characteristic 
follows a Johnson unbounded distribution with the 
in-control mean   = 0, standard deviation   = 1, 
  
