應用於數位電視之低功率基頻接收器(2/3) 
“The study of low power baseband receiver for DTV applications” 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-009-291 
執行期間：95年 8月 1日 至 96年 7月 31日 
計畫主持人：李鎮宜 交通大學電子工程系教授 
 
中文摘要 
在行動視訊應用逐漸受到重視的時代，實現一個有
效率的行動視訊接收系統不單單要考量視訊接收能
力、系統複雜度的取捨，同時還要顧慮到功率消耗的問
題。而這些問題與考量必須在早期的系統設計階段就列
入評估重點，如此一來整個系統才會顯得更有效率。在
這次報告中，針對 DVB-T/H 基頻接收系統，我們會說
明整個系統概觀，並提出一個專屬的模擬平台以及硬體
設計的經驗。在設計模擬平台階段，考量到各種通道效
應與非理想環境，對於解調變與錯誤更正兩個字系統，
我們提出演算法設計與最佳化，以達到系統接收效能要
求。在硬體架構設計階段，我們考量晶片面積與功率消
耗問題，提出一些低功率、低複雜度的架構設計。而最
後整合階段，我們以系統層面來考量解調變、錯誤更正
這兩個子系統之間的整合，同時提出電源管理機制，以
有效節省電源消耗。 
關鍵字：行動視訊、基頻接收系統。 
Abstract 
Mobile video services have recently gained a lot of 
interests. To reach a cost-effective solution, design 
trade-offs among system performance, hardware 
complexity, and power consumption need to be considered 
in the early design phase of such applications. In this report, 
we present a system overview, simulation platform, and 
hardware design of a DVB-T/H baseband receiver. Starting 
with a design platform, several algorithms on both inner 
and outer receivers are developed to meet target system 
performances under different channels. Then system 
architecture and related key modules are explored by 
taking into account of both silicon area and power 
consumption. Finally several design issues about the 
integration of the proposed DVB-T/H inner and outer 
receivers are addressed. 
Keyword: mobile video, DVB-T, DVB-H, baseband 
receiver 
1. Introduction 
To provide digital video services on handheld 
terminals over mobile environment, the terminal devices 
have to be customized for better mobility and battery life 
usage. Nowadays, several OFDM based standards are 
designed for such application and going to share this 
marketing. These standards are T-DMB, ISDB-T, DVB-H 
and mediaFLO. The T-DMB is based on Digital Audio 
Broadcasting (DAB) system and improves the error 
correction part of DAB system. The ISDB-T is a Band 
Segmented Transmission (BST) OFDM-based system 
which consists of a set of common basic frequency blocks. 
The mediaFLO and DVB-H are using Coded Orthogonal 
Frequency Division Multiplexing (COFDM) modulation 
method. Some comparisons and surveying work have 
recently reported in [1]. The Digital Video Broadcasting for 
Handheld (DVB-H) [2] system, enhanced from DVB-T [3] 
broadcasting system, is proposed for such environments. 
Besides, because of provided data rates in DVB-H services 
and the small-size displays of typical handheld devices, 
video coding method such as H.264/AVC and other high 
efficiency video coding standards are proposed [4]. 
In this report, we present a design case of DVB-T/H 
baseband receiver design. We focus on algorithm 
development, architecture design, and system-level 
integration for the receiver. In addition to meeting system 
performance requirements, we also consider reducing 
power consumption at different design phases. In the initial 
phase, we construct a MATLAB [8] simulation-based 
platform that we can concentrate on algorithm 
developments to meet performance requirements under 
different specified channel environments. Each 
algorithm/functional module is verified by the proposed 
platform via performance evaluation. In the architecture 
design phase, we check both data flow and computational 
loads among all functional modules to achieve a 
cost-effective solution. For system-level integration, 
several silicon IP’s for both inner and outer receiver parts 
are developed and integrated in 0.18 m CMOS p　 rocess. 
This test chip occupies 6.9 x 5.8 mm2 and consumes 
250mW at highest data rate specified in DVB-T/H system. 
The rest of this report is organized as follows. First, an 
overview of the DVB-T/H baseband processing is given, 
where the major differences between DVB-T and DVB-H 
are highlighted. Then, we introduce our design flow 
including algorithm development, architecture design and 
system-level integration. Several memory-efficient 
methods and low-power techniques are described and 
discussed. Then a test chip with some measurement results 
is presented.  
2. Overview of DVB-T/H Baseband System 
Block diagram of the DVB-T transmitter is shown in 
Figure 1[3]. The input transport stream is mainly from 
MPEG-2 artworks. There are two steps in the channel 
coding, one is outer coder, RS (204,188) coder, the other is 
punctured convolutional coder. Moreover, the 
corresponding interleaving methods (i.e. outer and inner 
interleaver) are adopted. If necessary, the inner interleaver 
can integrate two channel-coded streams into single slot 
when the transmitter is working in hierarchical mode. The 
mapper module is using three constellation schemes 
(QPSK, 16QAM, and 64QAM) to transform bit 
information into complex data. Before the follow-up 
OFDM modulation, Transmission Parameter Signal (TPS) 
is inserted into DVB frequency-domain frame structure. 
Meanwhile, both scattered and continual pilots are included 
for synchronization and channel estimation in the receiver 
side. The OFDM module conducts Inverse Fast Fourier 
Transform (IFFT) operation to convert 8K or 2K mode 
symbols into time-domain symbols. In the last step, cyclic 
prefix of the time-domain symbols are inserted to prevent 
multipath interference before passing to RF front-end 
synchronization scheme to identify symbol location to 
avoid ISI and reduce timing offset of received signals as 
well. In the first stage, the timing synchronizer will use 
normalized maximum correlation method to detect the 
operation mode (2K, 4K or 8K) and guard interval ratio 
(1/32, 1/16, 1/8 or 1/4) of the received signal. Meanwhile, 
the synchronizer will locate the coarse symbol boundary. 
The second stage (fine symbol synchronization) and the 
third stage (timing tracking) are operated in frequency 
domain separately. The fine symbol synchronization 
exploits the linear phase rotation of scattered pilots in each 
OFDM symbol to estimate symbol timing offset. Then the 
symbol boundary is updated. In the third stage, we 
calculate the phase drift of continual pilots in the same 
sub-carrier location between continuous OFDM symbols 
since this phase drift is caused by sampling clock offset. To 
reduce sampling clock offset, the phase drift information is 
passed to the interpolator at the input of baseband receiver 
to resample receiving signal. 
Pre-FFT
AFC
Post-FFT AFC
Sampling Frequency
Tracking
Carrier Frequency
Tracking
Fine Symbol
Synchronization
ADC GI/Modedecision
Coarse Symbol
Synchronization
Interpolator/
Decimation
FFT SP ModeDetection
QAM
Demodulation
TPS decode &
Pilot Remove
GI
Insertion
Clock
Offset CFOAWGN
Ricean/Rayleight
Multi-path
Doppler
Effect
Channel
Estimation
FFT
Window
Carrier Frequency
Compensator
Inner
Interleaver
Outer
Interleaver
Outer
Coder
Inner
Coder
QAM
Modulation
TPS & Pilot
Insertion
OFDM
(IFFT)Scrambler
Equalizer
Transport 
Stream
Transport
Stream
De-Inner
Interleaver
De-Outer
Interleaver
De-Outer
Coder
De-Inner
CoderDe-scrambler
 
Figure 3: The proposed DVB-T/H data flow 
In OFDM systems, CFO effect will contaminate the 
signal in each sub-carrier and cause inter-carrier 
interference (ICI). To reduce ICI and overcome Doppler 
frequency drift, a 3-stage frequency synchronization 
scheme is developed to estimate fractional part of CFO in 
time-domain and integer part of CFO in frequency-domain. 
Then a CFO tracking scheme is used to reduce residual 
CFO. The first stage is to estimate the phase rotation 
between guard interval and the copied data in OFDM 
symbol for fractional part of CFO. The integer part of CFO 
is estimated in frequency-domain by guard band detection 
method in the second stage. In the third stage, we apply 
joint SCO/CFO tracking scheme to estimate residual CFO 
and Doppler frequency drift. Outputs from these 3-stage 
estimation/tracking schemes are then exploited to 
compensate CFO effects. 
To support variant-length FFT operation, a radix-8 
hierarchical memory based FFT processor [9] is exploited 
to realize 2K/4K/8K FFT operations. In channel equalizer 
design, we apply two 1D linear interpolators for channel 
estimation and zero-forcing method for channel 
equalization. Note the TPS code contains the necessary 
information for demodulation and channel decoding, such 
as Guard Interval ratio, transmission mode, QAM method, 
hierarchical information, and code rate of punctured 
convolutional code. This TPS decoder uses voting scheme 
to decide the final answer from a set of TPS information in 
TPS carriers. A 64-level soft-decision QAM demodulation 
is used to improve system performance gain. 
A path-merging and path prediction Viterbi decoder 
[10] is adopted in the outer receiver. It can adjust the 
traceback length and memory accessing times based on the 
results from inner receiver. For outer De-interleaver, we 
design a 2D address generator unit which can perform 
de-interleaving operation in a single one-port memory. The 
RS decoder applies the decomposed key equation solver to 
achieve better area efficiency [11]. 
To overcome Doppler Effect in mobile environment, a 
robust channel equalizer with CFO tracking is necessary. 
From mathematical analysis, Doppler Effect can be 
modeled as dynamic CFO drift in each sub-carrier of 
OFDM symbol. The Doppler tolerant range of the 
proposed design is limited by channel equalization and 
CFO tracking schemes. Here we adopt two 1-D linear 
interpolators for channel estimation and a joint SCO/CFO 
tracking scheme for frequency synchronization to 
overcome this frequency drift issue. Our proposed system 
can tolerate Doppler Effect of 70Hz in 2K mode and 20Hz 
in 8K mode under the following conditions: Rayleigh 
multipath with SNR loss less than 2dB. 
The left part of Figure 4 shows an example of 
floating-point performance results under the following 
conditions: 2K mode, GI=1/8, Coding Rate=2/3, 
SCO=20ppm, CFO=20ppm, Rayleigh multipath channel 
with Doppler Effect of 70Hz. Also, a brief comparison of 
our proposal with other solutions in terms of Doppler 
tolerance range is shown in right hand side of Figure 4. 
Note that different channel conditions and transmission 
parameters may result in different Doppler performance 
results. 
 
Figure 4: performance results and short comparison. 
3.2 Architecture Design 
Block diagram of the proposed DVB-T/H baseband 
receiver is shown in Figure 5. The proposed design is 
composed of synchronization units, an 8K/4K/2K FFT 
processor, a 2-D channel equalizer, a TPS decoder, an inner 
de-interleaver, a Viterbi decoder, an outer interleaver and a 
RS(204, 188) decoder. 
Inner
Deinterleaver
Inner
einterleaver
Outer
Deinterleaver
uter
einterleaver
Outer
Decoder
uter
ecoder
Inner
Decoder
Inner
ecoderDe-scramblere-scra bler
FFT
Window
FFT
indo
Pre-FFT
AFC
Pre-FFT
AF
Carrier Frequency
Compensator
arrier Frequency
o pensator
Post-FFT AFCPost-FFT AF
Sampling Frequency
Tracking
Sa pling Frequency
Tracking
Carrier Frequency
Tracking
arrier Frequency
Tracking
Fine Symbol
Synchronization
Fine Sy bol
Synchronization
EqualizerEqualizer
GI/Mode
decision
I/ ode
decision
Coarse Symbol
Synchronization
oarse Sy bol
Synchronization
Interpolator/
Decimation
FFT CoreFFT ore SP ModeDetection
SP ode
etection
QAM
Demodulation
A
e odulation
TPS decode &
Pilot Remove
TPS decode &
Pilot e ove
Rx RF ADC
DVB-T/H baseband receiver  
Figure 5: The proposed DVB-T/H baseband receiver. 
Inner Receiver Design 
Structure of the inner receiver is shown as blue region 
in Figure 6. When data arrives, timing synchronization 
system will detect key parameters for the OFDM frame 
structure, including Operation Mode (8K/4K/2K) and 
Guard Interval Ratio (1/4, 1/8, 1/16, 1/32). After detecting 
operation mode and guard interval ratio, the coarse symbol 
Table 1: power saving schemes in the test chip 
 Used schemes effects 
Hierarchical memory 
structure Lower memory access power FFT operation 
Dynamic scaling Wordlength reduction 
Reordered De-QAM  Reordering operations Storage space reduction 
Viterbi decoder Path merging, Path prediction Less memory access power 
Outer de-interleaver Single memory structure with specified address generator Less memory access power 
Power Management Multiple oepration phases Redundant power elimination 
4. Implementation Results 
A DVB-T/H COFDM baseband test chip [12] using 
aforementioned techniques has been designed and 
fabricated in 0.18μm single-poly six-metal CMOS process 
with an area of 6.9x5.8 mm2. The logic gate count is about 
371K and the overall embedded memory size is about 
158K bytes. Figure 8 shows the microphoto of this test 
chip containing both inner and outer receivers. The largest 
module, and main power consumption of the test chip is 
the FFT processor with dual-bank embedded memory 
occupies about 40% of total area and consume 44% of total 
power consumption. The overall power consumption is 
about 250 mW at the highest data rate (31.67Mb/s) of 
DVB-T/H system specifications. 
 
Figure 5: Test chip microphoto 
5. Conclusion 
In this report, we present a single chip COFDM 
baseband receiver based on DVB-T/H specifications. 
Several techniques covering algorithm design and 
architecture exploration to reach a cost-effective solution 
have been reported. Specifically reducing storage space 
and minimizing switching activities are explored to reach a 
better power consumption index. A test chip demonstrates 
that a low-power and highly integrated DVB-T/H baseband 
receiver can be effectively realized in 0.18um CMOS 
process for portable video applications. 
Reference 
[1] Y. Wu, E. Pliszka, B. Caron, P. Bouchard, and G. 
Chouinard “Comparison of Terrestrial DTV 
Transmission Systems: ATSC, DVB-T and ISDB-T” 
IEEE Transactions on Broadcasting, June 2000. 
[2] ETSI EN 302 304 V1.1.1, “Digital Video 
Broadcasting (DVB): Transmission System for 
Handheld Terminals (DVB-H)”, European 
Telecommunication Standard, Nov. 2004. 
[3] ETSI EN 300 744 V1.5.1, “Digital Video 
Broadcasting (DVB): Framing structure, channel 
coding and modulation for digital terrestrial 
television”, European Telecommunication Standard, 
Nov. 2004. 
[4] Draft ITU-T Recommendation and Final Draft 
International Standard of Joint Video Specification 
(ITU-T Rec. H.264 | ISO/IEC 14496-10 AVC), May 
2003. 
[5] ETSI EN 301 192 V1.4.1, “Digital Video 
Broadcasting (DVB): DVB specification for data 
broadcasting”, European Telecommunication Standard, 
Nov. 2004. 
[6] H. Joki, J. Paavola and V. Ipatov, “Analysis of 
Reed-Solomon Coding Combined with Cyclic 
Redundancy Check in DVB-H Link Layer”, 2nd 
International Symposium on Wireless Communication 
Systems 2005, Siena, Italy, Sep. 2005. 
[7] H. Joki, J. Paavola, “A Novel Algorithm for 
Decapsulation and Decoding of DVB-H Link Layer 
Forward Error Correction”, IEEE ICC, Istanbul, 
Turkey, 11-15 June 2006. 
[8] Matlab: The Language of Technical Computing, The 
MathWorks, http://www.mathworks.com/ 
[9] Y.W. Lin, H.Y. Liu, and C.Y. Lee, “A dynamic scaling 
FFT processor for DVB-T applications”, IEEE JSSC, 
vol. 39, No. 11, pp.2005-2013, Nov. 2004. 
[10] C. C. Lin, Y. H. Shih, H. C. Chang, and C. Y. 
Lee, ”Design of a Power-Reduction Viterbi Decoder 
for WLAN Applications”, IEEE Trans. Circuits and 
Systems, vol. 52, No. 6, pp.1148-1156, Jun. 2005. 
[11] H.C. Chang, C.B. Shung, and C.Y. Lee, “A 
Reed–Solomon Product-Code (RS-PC) Decoder Chip 
for DVD Applications”, IEEE JSSC, vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 
229-236, Feb. 2001. 
[12] L.F. Chen, et al., "A 1.8V 250mW COFDM Baseband 
Receiver for DVB-T/H Applications," ISSCC Digest 
of Technical Papers, pp. 262-263, Feb. 2006. 
[13] G. Faria, J.A. Henriksson, E. Stare, and P. Talmola, 
“DVB-H: Digital Broadcast Services to Handheld 
Devices”, Proceedings of IEEE, VOL. 94, No. 1, Jan. 
2006. 
[14] DiBcom, DIB7700-P, DIB7000-H DVB-H/T receiver 
chip, data sheet, 2005. 
一些新的想法並且交換了彼此的經驗。 
 
二、 與會心得 
    在這次的會議過程當中，我也認識了幾位與我做的題目相關的
朋友，感覺格外的聊得開。我們也交換了彼此的名片。感覺起來，
能夠和許多的老師與朋友互相認識，這種機會是平常在學校很難遇
到的。另外還能夠了解其他領域的東西，並且分享彼此的研究經驗，
感覺讓我成長了許多呢! 
 
三、 建議 
  由於本會議龐大，因此有很多相關領域的 session 都在同ㄧ時
間進行，也使得我對於想要聽的演講部份，有些可能因此漏失掉(因
為可能在同ㄧ時間但是不同地點舉行)，這是我覺得此行的一個缺
憾。另外，在第一天 Opening 的晚宴上，雖然是十個人圍一桌，可
是他們居然是預訂了 34 道菜，真的是讓人吃到撐死，到現在還是很
納悶，哪有人上這麼多道菜哩。 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱與內容 
