 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
設備/技術投資與資源分派之最適化決策以提昇 TFT-LCD 產業資源
配置效益之前瞻研究(3/3) 
A PILOT STUDY ON INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND RESOURCE 
ALLOCATION PLANNING FOR IMPROVING CAPITAL AND 
CAPACITY EFFICIENCY OF TFT-LCD INDUSTRY 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-011-028 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：王孔政    國立台灣科技大學工業管理系 
 
中文摘要 
本研究以三年為期，探討並發展設備/技術投資與資源分派之最適化決策，以期提昇
TFT-LCD 產業之資源配置效益。本研究為申請人受 貴會資助探討以智慧型代理人技術發
展之生產系統的延續性研究，研究主軸已持續八年。本研究針對 TFT-LCD 產業之特定研究
議題分別採用確定性最佳化與隨機最佳化投資決策模型、模糊類神經模型與系統動態模
擬，應用於 TFT-LCD 產業生產系統之投資策略與資源規劃。本研究探討三項延續性主題：
一、如何於風險性、有限性與併行性環境下進行設備/技術之投資決策。包括 TFT-LCD 廠
商設備與技術種類之取得/處分最適方案，設備之最適採購數量，以期在投資活動中做出最
好的資金配置，並在風險環境下配置適當之產能水準，有效控制成本支出。二、如何進行
TFT-LCD 多重資源配置與組構。包括最具效益之訂單組合決策，最適資源與工作指派決
策，最適多重資源組合決策，以及最適關鍵性物料的採購與存貨計畫，以期提高資源利用
率與達交率。三、探討 TFT-LCD 廠商之設備/技術投資績效評估。包括設備/技術之最適資
金投入組合績效，設備/技術投入與營業績效之企業智慧研究，設備/技術投入與營業績效之
 4
Abstract 
This project focuses on the optimization for investment portfolio and resource planning of 
TFT-LCD industry. Three related topics is investigated and resolved using stochastic optimization, 
deterministic optimization, fuzzy-neural network, and system simulation, respectively. First, this 
study explores the investment portfolio decision-making under a risky, constrained, and 
concurrent environment, using a stochastic optimization model. We examine how the alternatives 
regarding resources and technology investment be formed and how the best one should be 
determined accordingly. Besides, the most appropriate quantity of resources, from the perspective 
of profitability, is computed. Second, an efficient order selection and simultaneous resource 
allocation model under a distributed production system is developed using a deterministic 
optimization model and solved by a genetic algorithm. The model aims at minimizing total cost 
with a consideration of inventory and procurement plans. Finally, the performance of investment 
portfolio and resource planning is evaluated from a practical view. Industry field study is 
conducted for verification. Besides, a business simulation model is established to investigate the 
impact of capital/capacity investment on its revenue/profit. A fuzzy-neural network will be used 
to induce business knowledge in capital and capacity investment decisions as well. The proposed 
research last for three years and is expected to contribute substantially to the TFT-LCD related 
industries for their productivity.  
We have completed four tasks related to resource allocation decision models and their 
corresponding solution methods according to our project schedule. 
1. A detailed research framework and development guidelines of the project 
2. A deterministic model for resource portfolio model for multiple resources 
3. A stochastic optimization decision model for tool procurement under demand risk 
4. Complexity analysis of the addressed problem and solution method developed 
5. A negotiation-based resource portfolio model 
Keywords: resource planning, intelligent agent, investment portfolio  
 6
的投資比例? 
---探討 TFT-LCD 廠商運用有限資金投資各種設備投資與材料、製程、產品技術之
研發活動的最適資金投入組合 
3. 如何善用投入與績效關係以協助未來設備投資決策? 
---設備/技術投入與營業績效之關係(企業智慧)研究 
二、研究架構與方法 
本研究已發展 TFT-LCD 產業之設備/技術投資與資源分派之最適化決策，並評估此投
資與資源分派之最適化決策模型之效能。針對每一研究議題，分別建立其設備/技術投資決
策之確定性與隨機最佳化數學模型，並設計對應之求解演算方法；所建立之模型以實務個
案修正並佐證之。本研究之內容如圖 1。 
本研究採用隨機最佳化數學模型發展設備/技術投資之決策模型，隨機最佳化模型可充
分反應出避險環境與風險性、有限性與併行性三項問題特性要求下之投資決策需要，問題
亦可清楚以數學結構定義出來。此外，本案採用確定性最佳化數學模型發展多重資源配置
與組構之決策模型，充分反應出有限性與併行性問題特性要求下之多重資源配置決策需要。 
鑑於問題的高複雜度，本研究發展柔性求解之近似方法，就延伸申請人歷年之國科會
研究成果言，其中以發展基因演算法求解最具時效性與可行性。 
智慧型代理人協商模型將用於發展多廠區與多資源配置。本研究開發一協商式多廠區
設備資源配置模型，不使用傳統集中式決策，而是讓各廠在考量多資源限制產能下，主動
選擇訂單以爭取績效最佳化與彼此互補，預期資源配置的結果將不僅具有可行性，並具主
動式的管理，各廠不再被動承接訂單配額，以創造企業整體績效的提升。 
為研究瞭解與分析 TFT-LCD 廠商特性與其進行重大投資所進行的評估流程，並建立
評估投資模型，本研究以系統動態模擬模型，從設備/技術投資績效的角度，運用模擬方法
進行敏感度分析，評估哪些參數較為敏感。模擬方法在考量風險變異情況下，提供一個良
 8
三、結果與討論 
本研究已分別發展出一個風險性環境下設備/技術投資之決策模型，以及一個協商式資
源配置模型。 
3.1 風險性環境下設備/技術投資之決策模型 
本研究針對 TFT-LCD 產業探討設備及技術投資之決策，期於市場需求、技術變革與
有限資金之風險性環境下(如圖 2)，擬定長期設備/技術投資最佳規劃。具體言之，本研究
考慮有限之資源產能(各型設備、人力、研發投入資金等) 、多樣製程技術、不同製程之技
術層級差異、有限投資資金限制、產品生命週期短、資金之時間價值(需考慮利率、匯率、
稅率、通貨等機率因素)、設備與技術之時間價值(需考慮設備折舊、技術革新)、生產線技
術更替速度快、存貨風險大、需求變異大等因素，求取多種之設備取得與處分方案(自製、
策略聯盟、合資興建、租用、共享產能、撤出產能等方案與比例)與多種之技術研發方案(自
行研發、策略聯盟、合資研發、購買、撤出等方案與比例)之最適決策。 
本研究根據以下特性，已建構企業設備/技術決策隨機性最佳化模型。並考慮以下因素： 
1. 預測之長期產能規劃期間，製程技術能力可造成之邊際利益。 
2. 預測之市場對於 TFT-LCD 產業之不同技術能力需求。 
3. 有限資金下，TFT-LCD 產業技術取得營運策略。 
4. 評估製程中各類設備之理論利用率與輸出率。 
5. TFT-LCD 產業於投資技術/設備可能造成之風險。 
6. TFT-LCD 產業製程建置與撤出成本。 
7. TFT-LCD 製程中現有製程技術與市場技術需求關係。 
 
 10
3.2 協商式資源配置模型 
TFT-LCD 最適資源配置之多重資源組構決策智慧型代理人在訂單資訊、可用資源限制
與有限資金分配下，進行資源配置與多重資源組構決策，並下達可接受之訂單組合、以週
為單位做切割，明述批量與交期時間，俾未來下層生產排程作業使用。 
本研究建構一個多資源限制環境下之協商模型，透過自主性協商決定資源配置。代理
人之間（多廠、各型資源、工作批之間），以集團對集團的方式進行協商，過程中互相不須
知道對方的所擁有的籌碼及協商底線，雙方分別透過代理人針對議題進行協商。對另一方
提出提議值（Offer），並接收對方的反提議值（Counter offer）。 
本研究已設計「協商決策函式」(Negotiation decision functions, NDF) 之協商機制與折
衝（Negotiation Trade-offs）機制，使代理人可依據 TFT-LCD 長期投資策略結果，遂行中期
之多資源衝突下之資源配置。本研究並比較在不同系統參數（議題權重、協商戰術）下之
反應。為評估協商之績效表現，以柏拉圖最佳化曲線（Pareto-optimal line）做為衡量標準
(Benchmarking)。探討在資訊分散情況下，代理人透過協商機制所獲得之協議與最佳解之差
距。議價與折衝協商包含了協商戰略(Negotiation strategies)、協商戰術(Negotiation tactics)
及多方協商函式(Multilateral negotiation functions)等三個層次，而戰術層次包含了時間相依
(Time dependent tactics)、資源相依 (Resource dependent tactics)及行為相依 (Behavior 
dependent)等三類戰術，而所有戰術皆是以多方協商函式為礎進行協商。 
四、計畫成果自評 
本案研究成果已獲國際期刊所接受論文計 9 篇、申請(中)專利 3 件、接受本案資助所完
成之碩士生論文計 5 篇、博士生論文計 2 篇，詳如參考文獻。本案承蒙國科會經費補助，
謹此致謝。 
在此研究中，所有參與計劃人員已獲得之訓練包括:  
1. 強化參與本案研究生之 TFT-LCD 產業專業性，未來可容易為該業界所運用。 
2. 自 TFT-LCD 產業之研究，得到其投資決策、資源規劃與產能分派之實際証明機
會與應用，可充分銜接理論模型與實務經驗。 
 12
Operational Research, 184(1), 327–340. (SCI) 
5. Wang K.-J.♣ (2008) Design of an agent-based distant and distributed manufacturing control 
system, International Journal of Manufacturing Technology and Management, Special 
Issue on Digital Manufacturing, 14(1/2), 66-83. 
6. Hou T. C., Gong D. C., Wang K.-J.♣, and Shekhar Jha, V. (2008) Knowledge management 
centric intelligent manufacturing systems for semiconductor manufacturing services industry, 
Journal of the Chinese Institute of Industrial Engineers, in press, 25(6). (TSSCI) 
7. Wang K.-J.♣, Wang S. M. and Yang S.-J. (2007) A resource portfolio model for equipment 
investment and allocation of semiconductor testing industry, European Journal of 
Operational Research, 179 (2), 390-403. June 2007 (SCI) 
8. Wang S.-M., Chen J., and Wang K.-J.♣ (2007) Resource portfolio planning of make-to-stock 
products using a constraint programming based genetic algorithm, Omega-International 
Journal of Management Science, 35(2), 237-246. (SSCI) (SCI). 
9. Wang S.-M., Chen, J.-C., Wee H.-M., and Wang K.-J. (2006) Non-linear stochastic 
optimization using genetic algorithm for portfolio selection, International Journal of 
Operations Research, 3(1), 1-8.  
專利 
1. 王孔政、王識閔、林靜敏 (2008) TFT-LCD 面板製造產業之多目標產能規劃決策系統，
專利申請中 (中華民國、美國)，2008/9/15 提出。 
2. 王孔政、王識閔 (2008) 半導體測試產業之同步資源規劃與產能配置系統，專利申請中 
(中華民國、美國)，2008/8/11 提出。 
3. 游兆鵬、王孔政、黃惠民、林鈺祥 (2008) 一種應用於損耗性商品之雙倉庫補貨系統，
專利申請中 (中華民國、美國)，2008/7/30 提出。 
博士論文 
1. 李芸慧，民國九十七年，博士論文：從靜態與動態觀點探討新產品開發流程，Criteria 
deployment at evaluation gates under different new product development strategies，國
立東華大學企業管理研究所。 
2. 王識閔，民國九十六年，博士論文：高科技產業資源規劃與產能分派最佳化之研
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          97 年 10 月 24 日 
報告人姓名  王孔政 服務機構及職稱 
 
台灣科技大學工管系教授 
 
 會議 時間 地點 自 96 年 8 月 26 日至 96 年
8 月 29 日止  
地 點 馬來西亞(吉隆坡)
核定 
補助 
補助編號: NSC 96-2221-E-011-028 
會議名稱 中文:  2007 國際資訊科學與應用會議 
英文: The 2007 International Conference on Computational Science and Its 
Applications 
發表論文題目 An Agent-Based Prototype of Asynchronous Distance e-Learning System for Facilities 
Planning Courses 
一、參加會議經過及其學術地位、重要性： 
2007 ICCSIA 會議係國際資訊科學與應用領域十分重要的國際會議。本研討會對我國資訊科學
與應用的研究發展助益良多。研討會議程共 4 天，發表 100 多篇論文，每篇均經過多位專家審查推
薦才被接受，論文接受率一般低於 1/3，均收錄於 LNCS。參與論文發表的國家約 10 多國; 包括 USA, 
Netherlands, Australia, Vietnam, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, China, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, 
Mainland China 等 
二、與會心得 
此次大會的內容非常豐富並邀請多位資深學術界代表對科學與應用領域做專題演講。本會議的特
色之一是場次安排細緻。除了論文發表之外，大會並安排了多場主題資深學者專題演講。各領域
的與會學者們將研究所得發表並和與會者熱烈討論。筆者與他國教授建立溝通管道、論文合作及
心得交換。此外也從他人發表的論文中，激發新的研究構想。從不同國家的研究成果中了解資訊
科學與應用發展的現狀與未來趨勢。 
三、建議 
本項會議為 LNCS 收錄，建議國內學者多參與。與會各國人員幾乎全是博士身份，特別是韓國各
大學教師參與人數最多，可見他們對學術研討會的重視；盼往後有更多機會參與相同的國際性研
討會以增廣見聞，增進國際觀。 
四、 攜回資料名稱與內容 
會議論文摘要集及會議 Programs and Information。 
Furthermore, distance learning is able to 
supplement conventional education such that 
students can develop their flexible, 
life-continuing learning programs off-campus 
[3]. Asynchronous distance learning through 
Internet is one of the most promising 
solutions to meet the contemporary education 
requirement. Internet assisted systems for 
education initially focused on asynchronous 
interaction using electronic mail and 
conferencing systems. However, even today’s 
computerized distance learning systems still 
apply simplistic models in which students are 
passively tutored by a course provider. In the 
extension work on asynchronous distance 
learning, which is proposed by Watabe et al. 
[4], they describe a conceptual model and 
architecture of a collaborative-based 
educational system both from the learner’s 
and course provider’s viewpoint. Besides, the 
evolution from conventional asynchronous 
learning systems to intelligent ones, 
particularly from a viewpoint of agent-based 
systems, emerges from which educational and 
artificial intelligence communities began to 
investigate each other’s work [5,6]. 
Student Clients
Security Checking
Learning Space and Bidding  Project Modules
Data Base
BBS
FTP
E-mail
Teaching 
Material
Evaluation
Homework
Announ-
cement
Student 
profile
Learning 
status
Internet
Server
 
Fig. 1. The proposed e-learning system 
framework 
 
Agent-based systems have been advocated 
since recent years as one of the most 
promising new software development 
paradigm. An agent is defined to require 
percepts to realize changes in environment, 
and adapts itself to achieve predefined goals. 
An agent-based system is consisted of a set of 
agents in which each agent negotiates with 
the others to resolve conflicts by a 
cooperative, compromised, or competitive 
manner [7]. Agent-based systems are 
applicable to a system in which resources 
spread geographically or command authority 
is possessed by distinct people/units. Such an 
inherent characteristic is coherent to the 
requirement of asynchronous distance 
learning systems. In an agent-based system, 
an abstract agent possesses a set of  
promising characteristics [8]. From the 
viewpoint of next generation distance 
learning systems, it is desirable for a system 
to be flexible and active in terms of system 
design and learning process. By integrating 
intelligent agents into the next generation of 
distance learning systems, the intelligent 
tutoring and monitoring agents in the system 
will be able to conduct course progress 
monitoring, help students to achieve their 
individual learning goals, develop a 
personalized course structure, and construct 
better classroom management [9]. 
3. Course design and system architecture 
The course in this study is designed to enable 
students developing their capability in 
facilities planning for industry. The 
fundamental course structure consists of 
facilities location selection and facilities 
design. Facilities design is accordingly 
composed by facilities layout, structure 
design, and material handling systems. The 
functional specification of the proposed 
distance e-learning system is described as 
follows. The course consists of a 3-credit 
lecture, a two-hour practice, homework, a 
related, system related, and bidding game 
related issues. The majority  (83%) is related 
to bidding game, which requires massive 
information exchange among teams and 
members within a team as well. The bidding 
game assumes that the teams in the virtual 
class organize virtual companies and requires 
the students of all the teams to employ the 
skills pertaining to production control, 
inventory control, and cost accounting to 
conduct a facility plan for bidding. The whole 
process needs intensive discussion and 
knowledge sharing among the students 
participated in the virtual class. The discuss 
platform provides a natural channel to 
conduct the learning activities. 
 
ipdl lab
Learning Space center
Learning Space course management center
bidding holarchy
students
virtual company
agents
other links
 
Fig. 2.  . Agent relationship in the 
virtual class environment 
The learning curve of using the new teaching 
system is interested to us. In terms of failure 
rate of file transmission depicted in figure 5, 
the tendency dramatically declines as the 
course progresses.  
The advantages of employing distant learning 
in the course are explored via a questionnaire 
analysis provided by Learning Space. As 
listed in figure 6, it concludes that (i) ease of 
browse teaching material on line, (ii) ease of 
file upload and download, (iii) ease of 
discussion between instructor and students, 
and (iv) learning flexibility regarding time 
and space are the most influenced factors 
among the ten indices which have been 
randomized before conducting the 
questionnaire investigation. 
The habit of Internet use is postulated to 
dominate the behavior of employing the 
distant learning system. Such a habit is 
investigated. Our data show that the majority 
of students devote nearly one hour per day 
upon Internet. A proceeding question is then 
asked how frequent they have spent in using 
the distant learning system through Internet. 
The statistics is displayed in figure 7. Most of 
students traverse the distant learning system 
at least once per week. 
 
Bidding holarchy
bidding web
entrance
agent
bid matching
agent
bid management
agent
as the market mediator
as competitors
virtual
company
agent
virtual
company
agent
virtual
company
agent
instructor
agent
Fig. 3.  Agent relationship in the 
bidding game environment 
 
Fig. 4. A sample of resultant facility 
layout 
 
 9
61
46
5 4 2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
a b c d e f
 
Fig. 8. Usage count for functions of 
distant e-learning system (Note. a. use 
all four functions. b. use all functions 
except media center. c. use virtual 
classroom and course material. d. use 
virtual classroom only. e. seldom use. f. 
never use.) 
5. Concluding remarks 
This study has addressed distance e-learning 
of facilities planning course for industrial 
engineering undergraduates. A prototype of 
asynchronous distance learning system for 
facilities planning has been proposed by using 
agent-based concept, and the empirical 
experience is provided accordingly. The 
Learning space system is employed as a 
platform to develop the context of the course. 
The system has been successfully practiced in 
a sophomore level course with three classes 
for more than 190 undergraduates. Our 
investigation revealed that Internet-based 
distance learning is capable of conducting 
lessons of advanced engineering education, 
and the majority of students under the 
investigation accepted such a new learning 
channel. The outcome from a questionnaire 
survey concludes that course material can be 
highly accessible by the participators than 
conventional face-to-face classroom, and 
discussions can be triggered easily between 
the instructor and students, among the 
students, particularly suitable for the 
characteristics of Asia students. Via the use of 
the proposed system the students participated 
in this course have exhibited their enthusiasm 
in learning process. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
a b c d e f
A
B
C
Fig. 9. Correlation between academic 
ranking and usage of distant e-learning 
functions of the involved students 
Acknowledgement 
The author would like to thank the Ministry 
of Education of the Republic of China, 
Chung-Yuan Christian University, and 
National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technology for partially financial support on 
this research. 
References 
 
[1] Ministry of education of Taiwan (2007) 
http://www.edu.tw/ 
[2] IBM (2007) Learning Space,  
http://www-306.ibm.com/software/lotus/ 
[3] Stratton, T. P,  Bartels, C. L,  Miller, S. 
J,  Carter, J. T. (1999) Distance learning via 
Lotus notes learning space in a nontraditional 
pharmD program: A preliminary report, 
American Journal of Pharmaceutical 
Education,  Fall Issue.  
[4] Watabe, K. Hamalainen, M., and 
Whinston, A. B. (1995) An internet based 
collaborative distance learning  system: 
codiless, Computers Educ. 24(3), 141-155. 
[5] Frasson, C. and Gauthier, G.  (1990) 
Intelligent tutoring systems, New York: 
Ablex. 
