 1
計畫摘要 
本計畫以食品供應鏈為研究範圍，建立一套 RFID 與無線感測器整合應用的架構，確保產
品從產地到消費者的過程中，品質及流向均能完全受到廠商的監控。無線感測器可偵測食
品是否發生腐敗或品質問題，並透過 RFID 設備將訊息傳至廠商的資訊系統，一旦產品或
儲存環境發生品質問題，廠商便可即時採取因應措施，以減少損失及不必要的物流活動。
下游廠商也可即時獲知產品到貨狀況以便及早做好配送及車輛排程等規劃，以確保商品均
保持在最佳的品質狀況。另一方面，RFID 與無線感測器整合應用而產生的動態定價策略
對消費者選購行為可能產生的影響，亦透過市場調查的方式進行探討。 
 
關鍵詞：無線射頻、無線感測器、食品供應鏈、動態定價 
 
Abstract 
In this project, we propose a framework for the application of radio frequency identification 
(RFID) technology and wireless sensors in food logistics to ensure the products’ quality and the 
traceability along the supply chain, from farms to consumers. The wireless sensors can detect the 
conditions of the food quality and transmit the information to the RFID tags. The RFID tags can 
also record other information such as the expired date and communicate with the computer 
system through the tag reader. Once the low qualities of products or bad conditions of storage 
environment are detected, some reactions such as enhancing the package or removing the bad 
products can be taken immediately in the distribution centers. According to the information on 
the smart tags, the distribution and the vehicle routing plans are determined to maintain better 
qualities of the food products when they arrive at the retailers. The consumer’s behavior under 
dynamic pricing is also studied through market research. 
 
Keywords: radio frequency identification, wireless sensor, food logistics, dynamic pricing 
 3
collection to augment enterprise resource planning or ERP system activities (Gupta, 2000). The 
RFID is considered a significant improvement over the conventional barcode, which needs to be 
read by scanners in “line-of-sight” fashion and can be stripped away if the paper product labels 
get ripped or damaged. RFID can also facilitate inter-organizational Ecommerce initiatives such 
as continuous replenishment or vendor-managed inventories (Smaros and Holmstrom, 2000). 
 
On the other hand, wireless sensor technology is still at its early development stage. Applications 
of wireless sensors in the preservation of food products are still rare. Some of them discuss the 
intelligent packaging or smart packaging, in which a wireless sensor is placed inside the package 
to monitor the condition of packaged foods and give information about the quality of the 
packaged food during transport and storage (Kerry et al. 2006, Jedermann et al. 2006). Wang et al. 
2006 present an overview on recent development and future perspective of wireless sensor 
technologies in agriculture and food industry. 
 
A wireless sensor network is a system comprised of radio frequency (RF) transceivers, sensors, 
microcontrollers and power sources. There are several kinds of sensors that can be used for food 
products, such as electrical, optical, thermal or chemical sensors. In recent years, chemical sensor 
and biosensor technology has developed rapidly, although practical uses of these sensors in the 
food industry remain limited. These sensors make it easier to monitor and control the quality of 
food products. The food quality such as freshness, microbial spoilage, oxidative rancidity or 
oxygen and/or heat induced deterioration is extremely important to food manufacturers. 
 
RFID tags and wireless sensors have some features in common, such as wireless transmission and 
microchips. Therefore, a special designed RFID tag with an embedded sensor unit is suggested in 
intelligent transportation of food products. The information about the quality of products 
collected by sensor unit can be stored in RFID microchip and transmit to the RFID readers.  
 
FRAMEWORK OF DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM 
 
The distribution system, depicted in Figure 2, is supposed to include several farms, distribution 
centers (DCs), and retailers. The transportation between DCs (i.e., fromDC  and toDC ) is usually 
by line-haul trucks, vessels or airplanes. The distribution operations are segmented into three 
stages: before leaving fromDC , between DCs, and after arriving at toDC . 
 
fromDC
toDCFarm 1
Farm 2
Retailer 1
Retailer 2
Distribution Center :
Distribution Center :
 
Figure 2.    Framework of the distribution system 
 
 5
Operations between fromDC  and toDC  
 
In this stage, the vehicle must be equipped with RFID readers, warning system and wireless 
communication. Sometimes an environment sensor is required. Once the low quality of products 
or bad condition of storage environment is detected, the driver will be noticed first by warning 
system and check the status of the cargoes. If the problem can not be solved, the information will 
be sent to consignors and consignees through wireless communication. It’s important to 
monitoring the variation of quality status of the cargoes especially in a long-distance 
transportation that takes several days. In addition, if the scheduled arrival time is predicted to be 
late due to whether or traffic problems, the information can also transmit to the toDC and 
consignees through wireless communication. 
 
Operations after arriving toDC  
 
Once the low quality of products is detected, the bad products will be removed. According to the 
quality information on the smart tags, the distribution and the vehicle routing plans are 
determined to maintain better quality of the food products when they arrive at the retailers or 
consumers. Figure 4 illustrates the flowchart of the operations after arriving toDC . In Figure 4, 
the shadowed blocks require data transmission between tags and RFID readers as well as 
updating the database. 
 
 
Unload  products on 
receiving docks of DCto
Quality alarm
from sensors ?
1. Move to recycle area
2. Notify the consigneeY
1. Perform vehicle routing 
plan
2. Move to shipping docks
N
Notify the consignor to 
arrange supplementLoad onto vehicles
Reception confirmed by 
the consignee
Is supplement 
needed?
Y
 
 
Figure 4.    The flowchart of the operations after arriving toDC  
 7
CONCLUSIONS 
 
In this paper we propose a framework for the application of RFID technology and wireless 
sensors in food logistics to ensure the products’ quality and the traceability. Through continuous 
monitoring and tracing of food products, many costs can be saved. We list some benefits of the 
proposed distribution system in the following: 
1. The bad products are detected and removed in the distribution centers before further 
transportation. The unnecessary transportation cost of bad products can be saved and the 
capacity of the vehicle can be used more efficiently. Moreover, the goodwill loss can be 
decreased because the retailers will be informed in real time and will not receive the bad 
products. 
2. When the problem of package or environment such as temperature control is detected, some 
redeeming actions can be taken immediately to prevent further deterioration. 
3. The retailers are notified of late arrival or shortage of the products in advance so that they can 
make proper reactions or adjustment to decrease the impact. 
4. Many existing applications of RFID in distribution centers can be used to accelerate the speed 
of logistics and save a lot of manpower. 
5. When scheduling the vehicle routing plan, not only the travel time but also the information of 
the products’ quality and its decay rate can be used so as to ensure that all retailers can receive 
its products with acceptable quality. 
 
參考文獻 
1. 王里仁(2005)，「應用 RFID 於物流中心即時系統之研究－以 EPC 規範為基礎」，中原
大學資訊管理學系碩士論文 
2. 王靜詩(2006)，「採用 RFID 的 CPFR 商業流程模式之探討－以液晶電視產品為例」，大
同大學資訊經營學系碩士論文 
3. 宋清貴(2005)，「RFID 應用於物流中心之研究」，國立交通大學運輸科技與管理學系碩
士論文 
4. 李文祥(2005)，「以無線射頻識別技術導入物流中心作業流程之研究」，輔仁大學資訊管
理學系碩士論文 
5. 柯才媛(2005)，「運用 RFID 提升供應鏈管理之研究」，國防管理學院國防資訊研究所碩
士論文 
6. 柯珮崎(2006)，「以近似法求解季節性商品之最佳定價」，國立中央大學工業管理研究所
碩士論文 
7. 吳明宗(2005)，「零售業導入 RFID 存貨作業模式之研究」，國立高雄第一科技大學行銷
與流通管理所碩士論文 
8. 黃柏凱(2005)，「運用無線射頻辨識技術建置倉儲補貨系統」，臺中健康暨管理學院資訊
工程學系碩士論文 
9. 郭乃文、林雅卿 (2006)，「RFID 在供應鏈管理之應用」，第三屆台灣作業研究學會年會
暨 2006 年作業研究理論與實務學術研討會，中壢。 
10. 許文源(2006)，「無線射頻(RFID)於倉儲管理之研究」，大葉大學資訊管理學系碩士論文 
11. 許金全(2006)，「射頻識別系統應用於倉儲管理之流程分析與改善」，立德管理學院科技
管理研究所碩士論文 
12. 許常仁(2005)，「RFID 應用於供應鏈管理之探討--以 S 公司為例」，國立交通大學管理
學院碩士在職專班工業工程與管理組碩士論文 
13. 許珮嘉(2005)，「運用 SCOR 建構低溫物流產業應用無線射頻技術之企業流程模型」，
國立清華大學工業工程與工程管理學系碩士論文 
14. 楊坤福(2000)，「考慮存貨下零售商對季節性商品的最佳清倉價格」，國立中央大學工業
管理研究所碩士論文 
 9
37. Sacharow, S., 2006, Inks keep getting smarter, Paper, Film and Foil Converter, vol. 80, n 7, 
p 12. 
38. Smaros, J. and Holmstrom, J. (2000). “Viewpoint: reaching the consumer through grocery 
VMI,” International Journal of Retail & Distribution Management, 28(2), 55–61. 
39. Wang, N., Zhang, N., and Wang, M., 2006, Wireless sensors in agriculture and food 
industry—Recent development and future perspective, Computers and Electronics in 
Agriculture, vol.50, 1-14. 
40. Wu, N.C., 2006, Challenges to global RFID adoption, Technovation, vol. 26, 1317-1323. 
41. Zhao, W., Zheng, Y.-S., 2000, Optimal dynamic pricing for perishable assets with 
nonhomogeneous demand, Management Science 46 (3), pp. 375-388. 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
本計畫已完成之研究成果如下： 
1. 搜集RFID 及無線感測器技術的最新發展與應用的資訊。 
2. 建立了食品供應鏈在採用RFID 及無線感測器整合技術的應用架構及改善方案 
3. 應用ARENA模擬軟體完成食品供應鏈在採用RFID 及無線感測器整合技術前後的績效
比較 
4. 進行市場調查探討動態定價對消費者選購行為之影響 
上述研究成果經整理後已完成二篇國際研討會文章及一個專題研究報告如下： 
1. Che-Fu Hsueh and Mei-Shiang Chang, 2008/7, “The Intelligent Transportation of Food 
Products: Using RFID and Wireless Sensors,” Proceedings of the 9th Intelligent Transport 
Systems Asia-Pacific Forum & Exhibition, Singapore. 
2. Mei-Shiang Chang and Che-Fu Hsueh, 2008/7, “A Real-Time Emergency Rehabilitation 
Scheduling Problem with Stochastic Duration Time,” Proceedings of the 9th Intelligent 
Transport Systems Asia-Pacific Forum & Exhibition, Singapore. 
3. 「以 RFID 為基礎之動態定價對消費者選購行為之影響」，清雲科技大學行銷與流通系
九十六學年度學生專題研究報告 
 
綜合上述研究成果可知本計畫已達成原計畫書中預定的目標，並可提供食品產業相關廠商
在採用相關技術及改善其供應鏈物流程序的重要參考。 
