2 
Methods 
Synthetic type Ib diamond powders with a 
mean size of 140 nm (Micron+ MDA, 
Element Six, USA) were purified in 
concentrated H2SO4-HNO3 solution (3:1, v/v) 
at 90 °C for 30 min.  After washing 
extensively in deionized water, about 5 mg 
of the diamond powders were deposited on a 
silicon wafer and allowed to dry in air to 
form a thin film (area ~ 0.5 cm2 and 
thickness ~ 50 μm).  The dried diamond 
film was exposed to a 3-MeV proton beam 
from a NEC tandem accelerator (9SDH-2, 
National Electrostatics Corporation) at a 
dose of ~1 × 1016 ions/cm2.  Formation of 
(N-V)– defect centers was facilitated by 
annealing the proton-beam-treated nano- 
diamonds in vacuum at 800 °C for 2 h.  
The freshly prepared FNDs were finally 
treated in concentrated H2SO4-HNO3 
mixtures to remove graphitic surface 
structures and simultaneously functionalize 
the diamond surfaces with carboxyl and 
other oxygen-containing groups.3 
Poly-L-lysines (PLs) with a molecular 
weight of ~30,000 were used to decorate 
FND surfaces with amino groups.  This 
was done by mixing 8 mg of 
N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N-ethyl-carbo- 
diimide hydrochloride (EDC; Sigma) with 6 
mg of N-hydroxysuccinimide (Sigma) in a 5 
mL solution containing 6 mg of acid-washed 
FNDs, followed by adding 3 mg of PLs into 
the suspension.  After incubation of the 
mixture at room temperature for 24 h, the 
PL-coated FNDs were thoroughly washed in 
deionized water.  Approximately 1 μg of 
the amine-terminated FND particles 
suspended in 100 μL of deionized water 
were drop-cast on a glass plate with or 
without SIF coating for fluorescence 
microscopy measurements.   
Noncovalent conjugation of DNA to FND 
was made by mixing 3 μg of the PL-coated 
FND particles suspended in 200 μL of 0.5× 
TBE buffer (Invitrogen) with a solution 
containing 165.6-kb T4 phage DNA (Wako) 
at a molar ratio of FND:DNA = 1:8.  The 
conjugation was established by pure 
electrostatic attraction.  The mixture, after 
incubation at room temperature for 10 min, 
was diluted with 0.5× TBE buffer to a 
concentration suitable for single particle 
detection, followed by drop-cast of the 
particles on SIFs for fluorescence 
measurements.   
SIFs were prepared by using the Tollens 
“mirror” reaction, following the procedures 
described in ref [10].  In brief, glass plates 
(25 mm × 25 mm × 1 mm) were first cleaned 
in H2SO4-H2O2 solution (3:1, v/v) and rinsed 
extensively in deionized water.  About 2 – 
3 mL of concentrated NH4OH was added to 
150 mL of 0.1 M AgNO3 and after thorough 
stirring to dissolve any precipitate that might 
have formed, 75 mL of 0.8 M KOH was 
added to the mixed solution.  To form SIFs, 
an equal amount of this solution and 0.5 M 
dextrose were mixed together for 10 s at 
room temperature.  Droplets of the mixed 
solution were deposited on the acid-cleaned 
glass plate positioned on a hot plate for 1 
min at 35 °C prior to removal of excess 
reagents.   
Fluorescence images of FND particles and 
SIFs were acquired using a wide-field 
fluorescence microscope (IX70, Olympus) 
equipped with a frequency-doubled 
Nd:YAG laser (DPSS 532, Coherent) 
operating at 532 nm and an electron 
multiplying charge-coupled device (CCD, 
DV887DCS-BV, Andor) set at an exposure 
4 
The result is in accord with the findings of 
Dickson and coworkers,21 who reported 
picosecond fluorescence lifetimes for Ag 
nanoclusters.   
We started the MEF measurement with 
140-nm FNDs surface-coated with PLs.  
Figure 3a shows a fluorescence image along 
with its intensity histogram for single 
140-nm FNDs dispersed on a bare glass 
plate.  The fluorescence intensity 
distribution centers at the count number of 
~8000 with a distribution width of 3900.  A 
2-fold increase in both mean value and 
width of the distribution was observed when 
the same particles were deposited on a SIF 
and excited under the same conditions (Fig. 
3b).  Such an increased distribution width 
is attributed to the increase in heterogeneity 
of the MEF effect as well as the size 
distribution of the Ag nanoclusters in the 
island film.   
To further illustrate this MEF 
phenomenon, we increased the FND-SIF 
distance by overcoating the PL-conjugated 
FNDs with T4 DNA.  As have been 
demonstrated elsewhere for single 
FND/DNA detection,2 the DNA coating 
does not result in any significant changes in 
the photoluminescence property of the 
material, since the red emission of FND 
originates from the (N-V)– centers 
embedded in the diamond lattice and their 
photophysical characteristics are insensitive 
to surface functionalization.  Furthermore, 
the individual 140-nm FND particle is 
wrapped around by the T4 DNA molecule, 
which has an extended length of ~60 μm and 
a radius of gyration of ~2 μm.  Figure 3c 
shows a fluorescence intensity histogram of 
the FND/DNA complex.  Indeed, the 
average fluorescence intensity dropped to its 
original value, accompanied with a narrower 
distribution width.  Assuming that only one 
half of each DNA molecule is involved in 
the particle wrapping process and the other 
half is extended freely into solution, we 
estimate that the FND-SIF distance is 
increased by ~1 μm, which essentially 
eliminates all the MEF effect.  This 
distance-dependent measurement result 
supports our suggestion that the observed 
fluorescence enhancement is caused by SPR. 
The origin of the MEF effect can further 
be elucidated by fluorescence lifetime 
measurements.  We compare in Fig. 4a the 
fluorescence lifetime histograms of 140-nm 
FNDs on a bare glass plate and on a SIF 
surface.  Each fluorescence lifetime was 
obtained by analyzing the fluorescence 
decay curve in terms of a multi-exponential 
model after proper deconvolution of the 
instrument response function as,22 
∑=
i
ii tI )/exp(- τα ,                  (1) 
where τi is the lifetime of each component 
and αi is the corresponding amplitude with 
Σαi = 1.  The amplitude-weighted lifetime 
is finally determined as  
∑>=<
i
iiτατ                      (2) 
By summing the results over 30 single 
particles (Fig. 4b), we found a shortening of 
the average fluorescence lifetime of FNDs 
on the SIF to <τ> = 14.1 ns, compared with 
<τ> = 23.7 ns of the same FNDs deposited 
on the glass plate.  The near two-fold 
reduction in lifetime, together with the 
two-fold increase in fluorescence intensity, 
again suggests that the observed 
fluorescence enhancement derives from 
6 
photostability and the long fluorescence 
lifetime of the material.  Further improve- 
ment of the detection sensitivity is possible 
if FNDs containing a higher concentration of 
(N-V)– centers are available.  Such a MEF 
effect, in combination with the easiness of 
surface modification, renders FND a 
potentially useful tool for long-term 
observation of DNA-protein and 
protein-protein interaction on surface at the 
single particle level.   
  
  
Figures 
 
 
Figure 1. (a) Typical atomic force microscopy 
image of SIF.  (b) Comparison of the 
absorption spectrum of SIF (green) and the 
emission spectrum of 140-nm FNDs (red).  
(c) Wide-field epifluorescence image of SIF, 
obtained by laser excitation at 532 nm and 
emission collection at 680 – 730 nm.  (d) 
Typical fluorescence decay curve of an Ag 
nanocluster.   
 
 
Figure 2. Emission spectra of three single Ag 
nanoclusters in SIF.   
 
 
 
Figure 3. Wide-field epifluorescence images 
(left) and corresponding intensity histograms 
(right) of (a) PL-coated FNDs on a glass plate, 
(b) PL-coated FNDs on SIF, and (c) 
PL-coated FNDs wrapped around by T4 DNA 
on SIF.  Note the change of the contrast scale 
in (b). 
 
