 2
目錄 
 
1. 中英文摘要及關鍵詞 
2. 報告內容 
3. 參考文獻 
4. 計畫成果自評 
5. 可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 
 4
英文摘要 
1) A 10-Bit LCD Column Driver with Piecewise Linear Digital to Analog Converters (IEEE JSSC 2008) 
A 10-bit LCD column driver, consisting of piecewise linear digital to analog converters (DACs), is 
proposed. Piecewise linear compensation is utilized to reduce the die area and to increase the effective color 
depth. The data conversion is carried out by a resistor string type DAC (R-DAC) and a charge sharing DAC, 
which are used for the Most Significant Bit (MSB) and Least Significant Bit (LSB) data conversions, 
respectively. Gamma correction voltages are applied to the R-DAC to fit the inverse of the liquid crystal 
transmittance-voltage characteristic. The gamma correction can also be digitally fine-tuned in the timing 
controller or column drivers. A prototype 10-bit LCD column driver implemented in a 0.35-μm CMOS 
technology demonstrates that the settling time is within 3 μs and the average die size per channel is 0.063 
mm2, smaller than those of column drivers based exclusively on R-DACs. 
 
2) A Rail-to-Rail Class-AB Amplifier with an Offset Cancellation for LCD Drivers (IEEE JSSC 2009) 
A rail-to-rail amplifier with an offset cancellation, which is suitable for high color depth and 
high-resolution liquid crystal display (LCD) drivers, is proposed. The amplifier incorporates dual 
complementary differential pairs, which are classified as main and auxiliary transconductance amplifiers, to 
obtain a full input voltage swing and an offset canceling capability. Both offset voltage and injection-induced 
error, due to the device mismatch and charge injection, respectively, are greatly reduced. The offset 
cancellation and charge conservation, which is used to reduce the dynamic power consumption, are operated 
during the same time slot so that the driving period does not need to increase. An experimental prototype 
amplifier is implemented with 0.35-μm CMOS technology. The circuit draws 7.5 μA static current and 
exhibits the settling time of 3 μs, for a voltage swing of 5 V under a 3.4 kΩ resistance, and a 140 pF 
capacitance load with a power supply of 5 V. The offset voltage of the amplifier with offset cancellation is 
0.48 mV. 
 
3) An Area-Efficient Fully R-DAC Based TFT-LCD Column Driver (IEEE TCAS-I) 
This study proposes an area-efficient fully R-DAC based thin-film transistor liquid crystal display 
(TFT-LCD) column driver in which the digital to analog converters (DACs) supply only negative polarity 
voltages, while polarity inverters generate the positive polarity voltages from the negative polarity voltages. 
An offset cancellation technique is employed in the negative polarity buffers and polarity inverters. An 
experimental prototype 8-bit column driver was implemented using 0.35-μm CMOS technology to verify the 
proposed driving scheme. The settling time is within 5 μs and the maximum deviation is 0.68 LSB. The 
average area per channel is 0.04 mm2. Compared with a conventional fully R-DAC based TFT-LCD column 
driver, the proposed driving scheme has a DAC area saving of 41%. 
 
372 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 43, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2008
Fig. 2. (a) Characteristic of the liquid crystal. (b) Response of DAC.
are proposed to reduce the die area. The gamma voltages are ap-
plied to the R-DAC to fit the inverse of the liquid crystal charac-
teristic. The gamma correction can also be digitally fine-tuned
in the timing controller or column drivers.
II. CONVENTIONAL COLUMN DRIVER
The conventional column driver architecture is shown in
Fig. 3 [1], [8]. The column driver should supply high analog
voltages to the LCD panel. To reduce the power consumption,
the power supply of the digital circuit is a low voltage. Digital
display data are applied to the RGB inputs and sampled into
the input registers. A wide data latch presents one row of serial
input pixel data to the inputs of the level shifters. The level
shifters then boost the digital signals to higher levels. In the
DAC of each channel, a voltage level corresponding to a digital
sub-pixel code appears at its output. The output buffers are
used to drive the highly capacitive data lines of the LCD panel
[11], [12]. For a dot inversion operation, the DACs should
offer voltages with positive and negative polarities for the same
digital input code. Hence, 11-bit DACs are needed for a 10-bit
column driver.
Since the transmittance response of the liquid crystal to the
applied voltage is nonlinear, a nonlinear DAC is needed to ob-
tain a linear transmittance with the digital code. In order to im-
plement the nonlinear DAC, certain gamma voltages are applied
to the resistor string and the resistor string is made up of unequal
resistors to fit the nonlinear curve.
The layout of a conventional column driver is depicted in
Fig. 4. One resistor string, is put in the middle of the chip,
to supply the reference voltages to all channels. Each channel
needs a decoder to route the reference voltage, corresponding to
the digital input code, to the corresponding output buffer. Since
Fig. 3. Conventional column driver architecture.
Fig. 4. Layout of the conventional column driver.
several hundreds of channels are built into a single chip, the die
area of the routing lines, used to connect the resistor string and
the decoders, is very large. For example, 2048 metal lines are
needed in a 10-bit column driver IC. Hence, the metal lines and
the decoders will occupy a very large percentage of the column
driver IC’s area, especially for high color depth displays.
In order to reduce the die area of the column driver for a
higher color depth display, Bell employed a linear switched ca-
pacitor DAC in his column driver [2], [3]. In this arrangement,
compensating for the nonlinear LC characteristic is done digi-
tally in the timing controller. Since the DAC is linear, additional
bits are needed to compensate for the nonlinear LC character-
istic. As a result, the effective resolution is reduced.
III. PROPOSED COLUMN DRIVER
A 10-bit LCD column driver, which consists of piecewise
linear DACs, is proposed in this section.
A. Data Conversion Scheme
In this work, a piecewise linear compensation is utilized in
the proposed column driver to reduce the die area and increase
the resolution for a higher color depth display. The gamma volt-
ages are applied to the resistor string of the R-DAC and the
resistor values are also made unequal to compensate for the
nonlinear LC characteristic. The characteristic of the piecewise
linear DAC and the reverse response of the LC are shown in
Fig. 5, where are the external gamma ref-
erence voltages. The voltage curve of the piecewise linear DAC
is very close to that of the reverse LC response, so these two
curves look like identical. Since the characteristic curve of the
374 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 43, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2008
Fig. 7. Schematic of the R-DAC for the proposed column driver.
finally the reconstructed analog value appears at the output. The
output voltage can be expressed as
(1)
which shows that the C-DAC can divide the voltage for each seg-
ment voltage of the R-string and exhibits a 3-bit DAC behavior.
C. Output Buffers
In order to drive the data lines of the LCD panel, an output
buffer is needed in each channel. The output buffers, which are
usually made of operational amplifiers, are used to drive highly
376 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 43, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2008
Fig. 11. Simulated maximum settling time of the DAC for different numbers
of connected DACs.
TABLE I
DEVICE SIZES USED IN THE PROPOSED COLUMN DRIVER
DACs connected to a single reference voltage, the larger the re-
quired settling time of the C-DAC. The settling time for different
numbers of connected DACs was simulated using a 0.35- m
5-V CMOS model. Fig. 11 shows the simulated results where
the settling time is measured at 99.9% of its final voltage for
a full swing (0.266 V 4.75 V). The settling time is 5.2 s
when 200 DACs are connected to a single reference voltage.
Although a column driver IC contains several hundreds or even
up to one thousand DACs, these DACs are distributed to 256
reference voltages. This means that not all the DACs will
be connected to a single reference voltage. For a UXGA (1600
1200) display, the pixel clock frequency is 162 MHz and its
horizontal scanning time is 9.877 s [4]. Hence, the proposed
column driver is suitable for UXGA displays.
Due to the limited silicon area, only four channels are built
into the proposed LCD column driver. The 10-bit LCD column
driver with R-DAC and C-DAC was fabricated using a 0.35- m
5-V CMOS technology. The device sizes used in the proposed
column driver are shown in Table I, where , , ,
Fig. 12. Photograph of the proposed column driver.
Fig. 13. Measured output responses of column drivers for 8 chips.
and are designated in Fig. 7. Fig. 12 is a photograph of the
die. Except for the resistor string of the R-DAC, the die area is
mm for four channels. Each RGB digital input code
is 10-bit wide.
The differential nonlinearity (DNL) and integral nonlinearity
(INL) are typically measured for a DAC. However, it is difficult
to determine these two specifications for a nonlinear DAC. In
order to demonstrate the performance of the proposed circuit,
the nonlinear gamma voltages are not applied to the R-string
and the resistor values of the resistor string are made equal.
Since an LCD panel needs several column drivers, the unifor-
mity of different drivers is very important. Fig. 13 shows the
measured transfer curves of a DAC for eight off-chip column
drivers. To show the deviation between different chips, an en-
larged view of the transfer curves is shown in Fig. 14, where
the maximum deviation is 3.5 mV from the mean. This devia-
tion is mainly due to process variations. In this work, no error
correction has been used. Hence, the deviation can be reduced
by applying an offset canceling technique to the buffer ampli-
fier. Fig. 15(a) and (b) shows the values of DNL for positive
and negative polarities, respectively, while the values of INL are
shown in Fig. 16(a) and (b) for positive and negative polarities,
respectively. Due to the combination of R-DACs and C-DACs,
there are two groups of DNL values. The maximum DNL and
INL are 3.83 and 3.84 LSB, respectively. A 1-LSB voltage of
2.44 mV has been used to calculate INL and DNL. The linearity,
however, is less important than the deviations between off-chip
drivers for LCD drivers [2].
Fig. 17 shows the measured output waveform of two neigh-
boring channels under dot inversion for the RGB digital inputs
of “1111111111,” in which the voltage levels for negative and
positive polarities are 0.266 and 4.75 V, respectively. A load re-
sistor of 5 k and a capacitor of 90 pF were used. A similar
378 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 43, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2008
TABLE II
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED COLUMN DRIVER
except for resistor string
V. CONCLUSION
A 10-bit LCD column driver, consisting of piecewise linear
DACs, has been presented. The coarse gamma correction is
made by external reference voltages and unequal resistor values
in the resistor string. The fine compensation can be digitally
adjusted by a simple digital circuit, which can be built in the
timing controller or the column driver. These features result
in reduced die area and increased effective resolution. The
experimental results show that the settling time is within 3 s.
The average die area per channel is 0.063 mm , smaller than
those of full R-DAC based column drivers. The maximum
deviation is 3.5 mV from the channel mean for 8 off-chip
drivers. This deviation can be reduced if an offset canceling
technique is employed in the buffer amplifier. The measured
maximum DNL and INL are 3.83 and 3.84 LSB, respectively.
We have shown that the proposed column driver is suitable for
a UXGA LCD-TV application.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the Chip Implementation
Center of the National Science Council for their support in chip
fabrication.
REFERENCES
[1] C.-W. Lu and K. J. Hsu, “A high-speed low-power rail-to-rail column
driver for AMLCD application,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39,
no. 8, pp. 1313–1320, Aug. 2004.
[2] M. J. Bell, “An LCD column driver using a switch capacitor DAC,”
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 2756–2765, Dec. 2005.
[3] M. J. Bell, “An LCD column driver using a switch capacitor DAC,”
in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. Dig. Tech. Papers, 2005, pp.
556–557.
[4] C.-W. Lu, “High-speed driving scheme and compact high-speed low-
power rail-to-rail class-B buffer amplifier for LCD applications,” IEEE
J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39, no. 11, pp. 1938–1947, Nov. 2004.
[5] T. Itaku, H. Minamizaki, T. Satio, and T. Kuroda, “A 402-output
TFT-LCD driver IC with power control based on the number of colors
selected,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 503–510,
Mar. 2003.
[6] A. Gordon and F. Dingwall, “Matrix addressed LCD display having
LCD age indication, and autocalibrated amplification driver, and a cas-
caded column driver with capacitor-DAC operating on split groups of
data bits,” U.S. Patent 5,739,805, Apr. 14, 1998.
[7] J.-S. Kang, J.-H. Kim, S.-Y. Kim, J.-Y. Song, O.-K. Kwon, Y.-J. Lee,
B.-H. Kim, C.-W. Park, K.-S. Kwon, W.-T. Choi, S.-K. Yun, I.-J. Yeo,
K.-B. Han, T.-S. Kim, and S.-I. Park, “A 10b driver IC for a spatial
optical modulator for full HDTV applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. Dig. Tech. Papers, 2007, pp. 138–592.
[8] J.-S. Kim, D.-K. Jeong, and G. Kim, “A multi-level multi-phase charge-
recycling method for low-power AMLCD column drivers,” IEEE J.
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 74–84, Jan. 2000.
[9] Z. Wei, “Simplified multi-output digital to analog converter (DAC) for
a flat panel display,” U.S. 6,781,532 B2, Aug. 24, 2004.
[10] D. McCartney, “Designing with TFT LCD column drivers,”
2007 [Online]. Available: http://www.national.com/AU/design/
0,4706,11_0_,00.html
[11] P.-C. Yu and J.-C. Wu, “A class-B output buffer for flat-panel-dis-
play column driver,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 34, no. 1, pp.
116–119, Jan. 1999.
[12] T. Itakura and H. Minamizaki, “A two-gain-stage amplifier without an
on-chip Miller capacitor in an LCD driver IC,” IEICE Trans. Funda-
mentals, vol. E85-A, no. 8, pp. 1913–1920, Aug. 2002.
[13] TFT-LCD source drivers NT39360, NT3982, and NT3994, Novatek
[Online]. Available: http://www.novatek.com.tw/
Chih-Wen Lu (M’01) was born in Tainan, Taiwan,
R.O.C., on October 11, 1965. He received the B.S.
degree in electronic engineering from National
Taiwan Institute of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, in
1991, the M.S. degree in electrooptics from National
Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, in 1994,
and the Ph.D. degree in electronic engineering from
National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan.
During 1999–2001, he was an Assistant Professor
of the Department of Electrical Engineering, Da-yeh
University. He joined the National Chi Nan Univer-
sity, Taiwan, in 2001 and is currently an Associate Professor in the Department
of Electrical Engineering. His research interests include LCD driver design and
analog/mixed-mode IC design.
Lung-Chien Huang was born in Pingtung, Taiwan,
R.O.C., on July 30, 1980. He received the B.S.
degree in computer and communication engineering
from National Kaohsiung First University of Science
and Technology, Kaohsiung, in 2003 and the M.S.
degree in electronic engineering from National Chi
Nan University, Taiwan, in 2005.
He joined SQ Service and Quality Company,
Taipei, Taiwan, in 2005 and is currently an Engineer.
His work includes digital-to-analog converters and
analog-to-digital converters.
526 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 44, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2009
Fig. 1. Architecture of the proposed two-stage buffer amplifier.
II. PROPOSED AMPLIFIER
To reduce costs, some low-resolution driver ICs do not em-
ploy the offset cancellation technique. However, this technique
is recommended in high-quality driver ICs. Amplifiers without
and with offset cancellation are described in this section, in sub-
section A and B, respectively.
A. Proposed Amplifier Without Offset Cancellation
The architecture of the proposed two-stage buffer amplifier,
shown in Fig. 1, consists of 1) four transconductance ampli-
fiers, Gmap, Gmn, Gmp, and Gman; 2) two transimpedance
amplifiers, R1 and R2; and 3) a pair of complementary
common-source amplifiers, M25 and M26. The four transcon-
ductance amplifiers are dual complementary differential pairs,
which, along with the two transimpedance amplifiers, compose
the first stage. Gmn and Gmp are main transconductance am-
plifiers, and Gmap and Gman are auxiliary transconductance
amplifiers. Gmn and Gmap, which are NMOS input and PMOS
input differential pairs, are actively loaded by R1, while Gmp
and Gman are actively loaded by R2. The complementary
common-source amplifiers, M25 and M26, are used to drive the
data line of the LCD panel as the second stage. To achieve the
push-pull driving, dual single-ended amplifiers are used to drive
the output devices. The single-ended amplifier incorporates a
complementary differential pair as the input stage, to obtain
a full input voltage swing. The main and auxiliary transcon-
ductance amplifiers are dual complementary differential pairs;
thus, when the input voltage is near to rail voltages, one of
the main transconductance amplifiers is cut off although its
counterpart auxiliary transconductance amplifier still operates.
For example, as the input voltage is near to the value of VDD,
Gmp and Gmap are cut off, but Gmn and Gman can amplify the
input signal to the output stage through R1 and R2, respectively.
Hence, the architecture is a rail-to-rail amplifier.
The equivalent circuit of the proposed two-stage amplifier is
shown in Fig. 2, where and and , and and
are the transconductances, output resistances, and output
parasitic capacitances of the first-stage and second-stage ampli-
fiers, respectively. and are used for the stability. The
data line of the LCD panel is an distribution. To sim-
plify the small-signal analysis, the data line is modeled as a
first-order circuit. Since the first stage amplifier con-
tains dual complementary differential pairs, the value of
depends on the input common-mode voltage. To evaluate this
value of , the input voltage is divided into low, middle, and
high levels. When the input voltage is at the low level, the PMOS
input transconductance amplifiers are operating and the NMOS
input transconductance amplifiers are cut off, and vice versa for
the high-level inputs. All transconductance amplifiers can am-
plify the input signal when the input voltage is at the middle
level. Hence, the value of can be expressed as
(1)
where are the transconductances of
the transconductance amplifiers, ,
respectively. Since the transconductance of the first stage am-
plifier varies with the input common-mode voltage, the dc gain
of the amplifier varies over the signal swing for large signals.
The distortion will then be generated in a continuously large
signal. To reduce the distortion encountered due to this varia-
tion, the input stage should be modified to a rail-to-rail constant
gm differential amplifier. For an LCD driver application, the
amplifier is used to buffer the step-wise signals. Hence, the
constant gm design is not required.
The open-loop transfer function, , can be obtained from
Fig. 2 and the assumptions:
; and . That is:
(2)
where
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chi-Nan University Library. Downloaded on February 6, 2009 at 22:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
528 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 44, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2009
Fig. 3. Open-loop frequency characteristic of the amplifier with (a) a large load
and (b) a small load, respectively.
transfer the differential signals of M2 and M3 to M13 and M14.
A symmetric schematic is designed in the resistance amplifier,
R2.
To avoid the transistors, M17–M20, entering into the triode
region, the gate voltages of M15, M16, M21, and M22 should be
carefully designed. In this work, the gates of M15 and M16 are
biased at the voltage of . Similarly, a voltage of
is applied to the gates of M21 and M22.
These bias voltages can be easily implemented. Mb1–Mb8 and
constitutes the bias circuit [19], which provides the bias cur-
rents independent of both the supply voltage and the MOSFET
threshold voltage. The sizes of Mb7 and Mb8 are deliberately
designed to be mismatched, with Mb8 usually about four times
wider than Mb7. A resistor Rb is connected in series with the
source of Mb8. The value of Rb determines the bias current,
. To bias the gates of M15 and M16, a cascode transistor Mb6
and a matched diode-connected transistor Mb5 are included. Fi-
nally, a p-channel cascode current mirror formed by two pairs
of matched devices, Mb1–Mb4, replicates the current back
to Mb5 and Mb7, as well as providing the bias voltages for M1,
M7 and M19–M22.
In the stable state, the dc current of the output stage is bi-
ased by the two resistance amplifiers, R1 and R2. The currents
flowing in M14 and M24 can be expressed as
(11)
(12)
where and indicate the dc current and the aspect
ratio of the device , respectively. If the input stage is perfectly
balanced, the voltage appearing at the drain of M14 equals to
that at its gate. Thus the dc current of M25, , is related to the
current of M14 by the relationship
(13)
Similarly, the dc current of M26, , is related to M24 by
(14)
In order for no systematic offset voltage to appear at the output,
this sink current, , must be equal to the current supplied by
M25.
As a buffer, the output is connected to the inverting input ter-
minal (in ), and the input signal is applied to the non-inverting
input terminal (in ). The data line of the LCD panel is con-
nected to the output labeled “out”. When the non-inverting input
voltage, in , is reduced, the gate voltages of M25 and M26 are
increased. As a result, M26 starts to discharge the output node.
When the output voltage reaches the level that the voltage dif-
ference between the input and output is almost zero, M26 stops
discharging the output node. Similarly, when the input voltage,
in , is increased, M25 charges the output load until the output
voltage almost equals to the input voltage.
The class-AB behavior, which is simulated in a 0.35 m
CMOS technology with the device parameters shown in Table I
by the circuit simulator Hspice, is shown in Fig. 5 where the
maximum signal current of M25 that can be delivered to the
load is 1.2 mA but the quiescent current is only 1.8 A. The
ratio between the maximum signal current and the quiescent
current is 666.
The device mismatch may introduce the offset voltage and
dissipate more output current. The proposed offset cancellation
scheme, which will be described in the sub-section B, is used
to reduce the offset voltage. The output transistors will dissi-
pate more static current at the cross corner of fast-PMOS and
fast-NMOS. Also, the quiescent current of the output transis-
tors may have a large variation due to the random input-re-
ferred offset voltage of the first stage. That is, an opposite bias
level shift at the gate-to-source voltages of the output transis-
tors will induce more quiescent current. This problem can be
solved by intentionally introducing an offset voltage into the two
single-ended amplifiers in such a way that the output transistors
are not carrying any current in the quiescent state. The proposed
circuit then becomes a class-B amplifier. The class-B amplifier
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chi-Nan University Library. Downloaded on February 6, 2009 at 22:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
530 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 44, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2009
Fig. 6. Simulated phase margins of the proposed amplifier with compensation
resistors for (a) low (0 V), (b) high (5 V) and (c) middle (2.5 V) input levels,
respectively.
for a sub-pixel are 2.406 and 113.35 fF, respectively [15].
For a Quarter VGA (RGB 320 240), the total values of
the resistance and capacitance of the data line are 577 and
27.2 pF, respectively. From Fig. 6(c), it can be seen that the
Fig. 7. Simulated phase margins of the amplifier without compensation re-
sistors for (a) low (0 V), (b) high (5 V) and (c) middle (2.5 V) input levels,
respectively.
phase margin increases from 31 to 47 for a middle input
level when the compensation resistors are inserted between the
two stages of the amplifier. The phase margin can be further
increased by increasing the bias current of the amplifier or by
inserting a resistor between the output of the amplifier and
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chi-Nan University Library. Downloaded on February 6, 2009 at 22:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
532 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 44, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2009
Fig. 10. Schematic of the proposed buffer amplifier with offset cancellation.
Thus (see (16) at the bottom of the page). Assuming that
and , the output voltage can be expressed as
(17)
The output voltage is stored on the storage capacitor after
the switches SW2 and SW3 are turned off and the switch SW1
is turned on. Then, the output offset voltage is
(18)
The offset voltage referred to the input is therefore given by
(19)
where is the DC gain of the amplifier. Its value is usually on
the order of 80 dB. Hence, the offset voltage due to the device
mismatch is greatly reduced to a very small value.
As the conventional offset cancellation, the switch SW2 will
introduce an injection-induced error. The resulting input-re-
ferred offset voltage can be expressed as
(20)
where is the injection-induced error voltage on the storage
capacitor. To reduce this error, the transconductances of the
main transconductance amplifiers can be designed to be larger
than those of the auxiliary amplifiers. The schematic of the pro-
posed amplifier with offset cancellation is shown in Fig. 10,
where the switches are implemented by the transmission gates.
Charge conservation technology, which is shown in Fig. 11,
is usually used to reduce the power consumption by reducing
the average voltage swing. The voltage level refresh of the data
lines is divided to three phases. In the first phase, all data lines
are isolated from the outputs of the buffers. In the second phase,
they are shorted to an external capacitor, . These first two
phases are used for the charge conservation of the data lines. In
the last phase, all data lines are connected to their corresponding
buffer amplifiers, and the buffer amplifiers continue to drive the
data lines to their final values. The charge conservation phase
(16)
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chi-Nan University Library. Downloaded on February 6, 2009 at 22:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
534 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 44, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2009
Fig. 14. Step response of the proposed buffer amplifier loaded with the parasitic
capacitances of the pad, die package and measurement equipment with voltage
swing of 20 mV.
Fig. 15. Step response of the proposed buffer amplifier loaded with the parasitic
capacitances of the pad, die package and measurement equipment with voltage
swing of 5 V.
Fig. 16. Step response of the proposed buffer amplifier loaded with a load ca-
pacitance of 470 pF.
are and , respectively, i.e., and . The
larger the panel size, the larger the values of and . The
5-V step response of the buffer amplifier, loaded with
Fig. 17. Measured slew rates for different load capacitances.
Fig. 18. A 5th-order      configuration used for the measurement.
Fig. 19. 5-V step response of the buffer amplifier loaded with      k
and     pF.
k and pF, is shown in Fig. 19, where the settling
time to settle within 0.2% of the final voltage is 3 s. For a
UXGA (RGB 1600 1200) display, the values of the total
resistance and capacitance of the data line are 2.89 k and 136
pF [15], respectively, and its horizontal scanning time is 9.877
s. Hence, this circuit can be used for a UXGA LCD.
The buffer amplifier with offset cancellation is now demon-
strated. To quickly sense the offset voltage, the data line should
be disconnected from the buffer. Fig. 20 shows the 5-V step re-
sponse of the buffer without resistance and capacitance loads.
The upper curve is the input signal, the middle signal is the
output response, and the bottom signal is the clock. The fre-
quency of the clock signal is 100 KHz and the duty cycle is
20%, i.e., the offset cancellation and driving periods are 2 s
and 8 s, respectively. The period of the offset cancellation can
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chi-Nan University Library. Downloaded on February 6, 2009 at 22:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
536 IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 44, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2009
TABLE II
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
voltage can be further reduced by increasing the device ratio be-
tween the main and auxiliary transconductance amplifiers. The
active area of this amplifier is 103 40 m . The measured data
show that the proposed amplifier is very suitable for high color
depth and high-resolution LCD drivers.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The author would like to thank the Chip Implementation
Center of the National Science Council for their support in chip
fabrication.
REFERENCES
[1] T. Itaku, H. Minamizaki, T. Satio, and T. Kuroda, “A 402-output
TFT-LCD driver IC with power control based on the number of colors
selected,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 503–510,
Mar. 2003.
[2] J.-S. Kim, D.-K. Jeong, and G. Kim, “A multi-level multi-phase charge-
recycling method for low-power AMLCD column drivers,” IEEE J.
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 74–84, Jan. 2000.
[3] Y.-S. Son, J.-H. Kim, H.-H. Cho, J.-P. Hong, J.-H. Na, D.-S. Kim,
D.-K. Han, J.-C. Hong, Y.-J. Jeon, and G.-H. Cho, “A column driver
with low-power area-efficient push-pull buffer amplifiers for active-
matrix LCDs,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. Dig. Tech. Pa-
pers, 2007, pp. 142–143.
[4] P.-C. Yu and J.-C. Wu, “A class-b output buffer for flat-panel-display
column driver,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 34, no. 1, pp.
116–119, Jan. 1999.
[5] T. Itakura and H. Minamizaki, “A two-gain-stage amplifier without an
on-chip miller capacitor in an LCD driver IC,” IEICE Trans. Funda-
mentals, vol. E85-A, no. 8, pp. 1913–1920, Aug. 2002.
[6] C.-W. Lu and K. J. Hsu, “A high-speed low-power rail-to-rail column
driver for AMLCD application,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39,
no. 8, pp. 1313–1320, Aug. 2004.
[7] C.-W. Lu and C. L. Lee, “A low power high speed class-AB buffer
amplifier for flat panel display application,” IEEE Trans. VLSI Syst.,
vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 163–168, Apr. 2002.
[8] A. Gordon and F. Dingwall, “Matrix addressed LCD display having
LCD age indication, and autocalibrated amplification driver, and a cas-
caded column driver with capacitor-DAC operating on split groups of
data bits,” U.S. Patent 5,739,805, Apr. 14, 1998.
[9] M. J. Bell, “An LCD column driver using a switch capacitor DAC,”
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 2756–2765, Dec.
2005.
[10] M. J. Bell, “An LCD column driver using a switch capacitor DAC,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. Dig. Tech. Papers., Feb. 2005, pp.
556–557.
[11] J.-S. Kang, J.-H. Kim, S.-Y. Kim, J.-Y. Song, O.-K. Kwon, Y.-J. Lee,
B.-H. Kim, C.-W. Park, K.-S. Kwon, W.-T. Choi, S.-K. Yun, I.-J. Yeo,
K.-B. Han, T.-S. Kim, and S.-I. Park, “A 10b driver IC for a spatial
optical modulator for full HDTV applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. Dig. Tech. Papers., Feb. 2007, pp. 138–592.
[12] R. Ito, T. Itakura, and H. Minamizaki, “A class AB amplifier for LCD
driver,” in 2007 Symp. VLSI Circuits Dig. Tech. Papers, Jun. 2007, pp.
148–149.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chi-Nan University Library. Downloaded on February 6, 2009 at 22:59 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
2588 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 57, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2010
An Area-Efficient Fully R-DAC-Based
TFT-LCD Column Driver
Chih-Wen Lu, Member, IEEE, Chien-Chih Shen, and Wei-Chih Chen
Abstract—This paper proposes an area-efficient fully re-
sistor-string digital-to-analog-converter (R-DAC)-based thin-film
transistor liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD) column driver in
which DACs supply only negative-polarity voltages, while polarity
inverters generate positive-polarity voltages from negative-po-
larity voltages. An offset cancellation technique is employed in
negative-polarity buffers and polarity inverters. An experimental
prototype 8-bit column driver was implemented using 0.35- m
CMOS technology to verify the proposed driving scheme. The
settling time is within 5 s, and the maximum deviation is 0.68
LSB. The average area per channel is 0.04 mm . Compared with
a conventional fully R-DAC-based TFT-LCD column driver, the
proposed driving scheme has a DAC area saving of 41%.
Index Terms—Digital–analog conversion, driver circuits, liquid
crystal display (LCD), LCD driver, offset cancellation
.
I. INTRODUCTION
R ECENT IMPROVEMENTS in liquid crystal display(LCD) panels for multimedia and medical products allow
higher definition and greater color depth [1], [2]. Achieving
the higher color depths that LCD drivers can produce requires
a higher resolution in digital-to-analog converters (DACs) and
a larger die area of the circuit [3]–[5]. In today’s mature LCD
market, there is a high demand for low-cost high-performance
driver integrated circuits (ICs) [6], [7]. An LCD driving system
typically comprises a timing controller, column drivers, gate
drivers, and a reference source. An LCD module often includes
several column- and gate-driver ICs. The die area of a column
driver is much larger than that of a gate driver, as a column
driver generally includes shift registers, input registers, data
latches, level shifters, DACs, and output buffers. Among these
components, DACs occupy the largest die area. Thus, to reduce
the cost of column-driver ICs, the die area of DACs should be
reduced [8]–[13].
Fig. 1 shows the characteristic transmittance–voltage curve
of a normally white twisted nematic (TN) liquid crystal (LC),
which exhibits a nonlinear response to the applied voltage and
is symmetrical with the common backside voltage . The
range of the applied voltage can be divided into negative- and
Manuscript received January 29, 2009; revised July 22, 2009, November 01,
2009, and January 15, 2010; accepted February 17, 2010. Date of publication
April 29, 2010; date of current version published October 08, 2010. This work
was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan under Contract NSC
96-2221-E-260-025-MY3. This paper was recommended by Associate Editor
A. J. Lopez Martin.
The authors are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National Chi
Nan University, Puli 545, Taiwan (e-mail: cwlu@ncnu.edu.tw).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCSI.2010.2046252
Fig. 1. Characteristic transmittance–voltage curve of a normally white twisted
nematic LC.
positive-polarity voltages. The LCD brightness is dependent on
the root-mean-square value of the applied voltage regardless
of the polarity of the voltage across the LC [14]. If the nega-
tive-polarity voltage is , the positive-polarity voltage
is then , where is the difference between the ap-
plied voltage and . The average voltage applied to the LC
must always be zero to avoid damaging the LC material. To
meet this requirement, the LCs of active matrix LCDs should
be driven by the so-called inversion method. In this method,
both positive and negative polarities between LC cells alter-
nate with respect to [14]–[16]. Hence, the LCD driver
IC should supply both positive and negative polarity voltages
for a digital subpixel code. This increases the resolution of the
DAC by 1 bit, thus increasing the die area. Gate-cell cross-cou-
pling produces a gray-level dependence offset voltage in the
cell. Hence, industries use a skewed common voltage
and an asymmetric inverse gamma curve to correct the offset
voltages. Resistor-string DACs (R-DACs) are usually used in
LCD driver ICs. To compensate for the nonlinear LC character-
istics, a few reference voltages are applied to the resistor string
of the R-DACs, and the resistor values are made unequal [3],
[4].
Researchers have recently proposed different column-driver
designs to reduce the silicon die area. For example, Bell pro-
posed an LCD column driver that uses a linear switched-capac-
itor DAC [4]. That driving scheme greatly reduces the die area
by using a timing controller to compensate for the nonlinear LC
characteristic. Yoo et al. proposed an LCD driver with a 12-bit
segmented R-C DAC [17]. The proposed DAC consists of a con-
ventional resistor string and a sample-and-hold (S/H) buffer.
This S/H buffer needs four steps to complete the quarter-di-
vider operation. This increases the driving period. Umeda et
al. proposed a novel linear DAC converter using a capacitor-
1549-8328/$26.00 © 2010 IEEE
2590 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 57, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2010
Fig. 4. Proposed architecture of the -bit fully R-DAC-based column driver and its control signal.
demonstrating the proposed driving scheme, where the curves
and represent the positive- and negative-polarity voltages,
respectively. The curve can be inverted from its image curve
, which is located in the negative-polarity region. Many in-
verse gamma curves of LCD drivers are asymmetric. Hence, the
curves and do not overlap. Since the inverse gamma curve
can be inverted from its image curve, it is possible to eliminate
PPDACs by generating positive-polarity voltages from nega-
tive-polarity voltages.
A. Column-Driver Architecture
Fig. 4 shows the proposed architecture of the -bit fully
R-DAC-based column driver, which consists of shift registers,
input registers, latches, level shifters, NPDACs, negative-po-
larity buffers, and polarity inverters. The polarity inverters
generate the positive-polarity voltages, drive the column lines,
and replace the PPDACs and positive-polarity buffers. This
approach groups two driving circuit channels to drive a pair of
adjacent column lines. One channel drives negative polarity,
while the other drives positive polarity. Each pair of adjacent
channels shares only one level shifter and one -bit NPDAC.
Since the proposed driving scheme does not use PPDACs,
rail-to-rail input amplifiers are not essential in the negative-po-
larity buffers and polarity inverters. A few reference voltages,
namely, , and , which are
generated from a reference IC and transmitted to the resistor
string of DACs through SW2, are used to tune the tap voltages
so that the DAC output curve can fit the LCD panel nonlinear
characteristic. The voltages are negative ref-
erence voltages, which fit the negative inverse gamma curves.
The voltages fit the image of the positive
inverse gamma curve. If the values of and are
equal, the DAC characteristic is symmetrical to the skewed
common voltage. To generate an asymmetrical characteristic
curve, the values of and are set to be unequal. In
this case, as Fig. 3 shows, the voltage applied to the
NPDACs should be , where is the skewed
common voltage and is the reference voltage used to fit
the positive inverse gamma curve for conventional drivers.
Digital display data are applied to the RGB inputs and sam-
pled into the input registers. The latches output one row of se-
rial input pixel data to the inputs of level shifters. When the odd
column lines are driven by negative polarity and the adjacent
even column lines are under positive polarity, the signal, i.e.,
pol, is low. The odd and even column lines are switched to the
2592 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 57, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2010
Fig. 6. Negative-polarity buffer and its control signals.
forms a unity-gain buffer. Since the storage capacitor loads the
op-amp, the compensation resistor is inserted between the
storage capacitor and the output of the op-amp for stability.
Section II-D explains in greater detail. The term rep-
resents the input voltage, and is the input-referred offset
voltage of the op-amp. For a high-gain op-amp, the voltage at
the inverting input terminal becomes
(1)
The storage capacitor stores the voltage.
In the hold/driving phase, the inverting and noninverting input
terminals of the op-amp are exchanged. SW2 is switched to po-
sition “0,” SW4 is turned off, and SW and SW5 are turned on.
Fig. 7(b) shows that this results in another negative feedback
loop. The op-amp is isolated from the DAC, and its output is
connected to the column line. The stored voltage
on the storage capacitor becomes the input to the buffer. The
output voltage of the buffer becomes
(2)
which demonstrates that the offset voltage is canceled.
D. Polarity Inverter
Fig. 8 shows the polarity inverter and its control signals. The
inverter is a switched-capacitor circuit, and the two capacitors
and have the same value. The capacitors and are
also used for the offset cancellation. No additional capacitor is
required for the offset cancellation. The op-amp is identical to
the one used in the negative-polarity buffer, and its inverting and
noninverting input terminals are also exchangeable. The opera-
tion of the polarity inverter is divided into reset and inversion/
driving phases, which have the same periods as the sampling and
hold/driving phases of the negative-polarity buffer, respectively.
Fig. 7. Operation of the negative-polarity buffer for the (a) sample and (b) hold/
driving phases.
Fig. 8. Polarity inverter and its control signals.
Fig. 9(a) shows the noninverting and inverting input termi-
nals for the reset phase. SW2 is switched to the “1” position.
The switches of SW6–SW9 are turned on, and SW and
SW10–SW12 are turned off. This creates a negative feedback
loop and disconnects the output of the DAC and the column
line. The voltage is applied to the noninverting input
terminal. Due to the negative feedback loop, the voltage at
the inverting input terminal is . The input-referred
offset voltage of the op-amp is then stored in the two
capacitors and . The stored charge is
(3)
where is the capacitance value of and .
In the inversion/driving phase, the inverting and noninverting
input terminals of the op-amp are exchanged, as Fig. 9(b) shows.
SW2 is switched to the “0” position. The switches SW and
2594 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 57, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2010
Fig. 11. Equivalent circuit for the op-amp with a load corresponding to a negative-polarity buffer application.
in2 are noninverting and inverting, respectively. The signal
is low when the connections between the first-stage amplifier
outputs and the second-stage amplifier inputs are swapped.
This reverses the input polarity. However, the input-referred
offset voltage maintains the same polarity, as Figs. 7 and 9
show.
Both the negative-polarity buffer and the polarity inverter use
the op-amp; thus, it has different loads for these two applica-
tions. Fig. 11 shows the equivalent circuit for the op-amp with a
load corresponding to a negative-polarity buffer application. In
this figure, , , , and represent the transconduc-
tances of the first-, second-, and third-stage (M11 and M12) am-
plifiers, respectively. Similarly, , , and , and , ,
and represent the output conductances and the output par-
asitic capacitances of the first-, second-, and third-stage ampli-
fiers, respectively. Since the operation of the negative-polarity
buffer can be divided into two phases, the op-amp uses different
loads in each phase. In the sampling phase, the compensation
resistor and the storage capacitor become the load of
the op-amp. Hence, the load conductance represents the con-
ductance of , and the capacitance represents the storage
capacitor . In the hold/driving phase, the op-amp drives the
data line of the LCD panel. This data line has an distri-
bution, and to simplify the small-signal analysis, it is modeled
as a first-order circuit with and . The open-loop
transfer function of the op-amp that is used in the negative-po-
larity buffer can be obtained from Fig. 11. Thus
(9)
where
(10)
(11)
(12)
Fig. 12. Simulated phase margins of the negative-polarity buffer during the
sampling phase.
Fig. 13. Simulated phase margins of the negative-polarity buffer during the
hold/driving phase.
(13)
(14)
2596 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 57, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2010
Fig. 16. Equivalent circuit for the op-amp used in the polarity inverter during the inversion/driving phase.
The fourth pole is far away from and therefore has
little effect on the phase margin. During the reset phase, the
open-loop frequency characteristic of the op-amp used in the
polarity inverter is similar to that of the negative-polarity buffer.
Fig. 15 shows the simulated phase margin of the positive inverter
during the reset phase. The larger the value of the compensation
capacitor , the larger the value of the phase margin. As
increases, increases and departs from , thus incrementally
changing the phase margin.
Fig. 16 shows the equivalent circuit for the op-amp used in
the polarity inverter during the inversion/driving phase. The ca-
pacitors and have the same capacitance value . The
voltage at the top plate of feeds back to the inverting input of
the op-amp. The open-loop transfer function is expressed
as
(26)
where
(27)
(28)
(29)
(30)
(31)
(32)
(33)
The second pole , which is located at the output node
of the positive inverter, is compensated by . The values of
and are smaller than the unity-gain frequency. As the
load capacitance varies, both and move toward the
same direction at the Bode diagram, thus almost not changing
the phase margin. However, as reduces, increases and
becomes close to , thus decreasing the phase margin. The
third pole is larger than the unity-gain frequency. As
Fig. 17. Simulated phase margins of the positive inverter during the inversion/
driving phase.
Fig. 18. Die photograph.
increases, decreases and moves toward , thus decreasing
the phase margin. To reduce the influence of the negative zero
on the phase margin, is designed to be far away from .
That is, the value of is designed to be at least two times of
the value of . Fig. 17 shows the simulated phase margin of
the positive inverter during the inversion/driving phase, which
verifies these results.
Although this prototype column driver uses three-stage
op-amps, the three-stage op-amps are not essential for the
negative-polarity buffer and polarity inverter. A gain of 100
dB is sufficient for LCD driver ICs, and a two-stage op-amp
can yield the value. This design can use two-stage op-amps to
2598 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 57, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2010
TABLE I
REFERENCE VOLTAGES USED IN THE DACS
Fig. 21. Measured transfer curves of the DAC for linear and nonlinear
characteristics.
The maximum driving current of the op-amp is 755 A. In-
creasing the device sizes of the output stage can increase the
driving capability. However, it also gives rise to the static cur-
rent.
Differential nonlinearity (DNL) and integral nonlinearity
(INL) are typically measured for a DAC; however, they are
difficult to determine for a nonlinear DAC. To demonstrate the
performance of the proposed circuit, equal resistor values are
set for the resistor string of DACs, but both linear and nonlinear
reference voltages are applied to the R-string, respectively, for
measurements. Fig. 19(a) and (b) shows the DNL values for
the positive and negative polarities for linear measurements,
respectively, while Fig. 20(a) and (b) shows the corresponding
INL values. The maximum positive-polarity DNL and INL
values are 0.145 and 0.126 LSB, while the maximum nega-
tive-polarity DNL and INL values are 0.345 and 0.337 LSB,
respectively. A 1-LSB voltage of 7.9 mV was used to calculate
DNL and INL. The DNL and INL values of negative polarity
are larger than those of positive polarity. This is due to a layout
connection error in the negative-polarity buffer. Instead of
connecting the node between and SW4, the top plate of
was connected to the input of the negative-polarity buffer. This
makes the reduction on the phase margin of the negative-po-
larity buffer due to the vanishment of . Hence, better DNL
and INL values of negative polarity can be achieved with a
proper layout. The DAC should generate an asymmetric inverse
gamma curve to compensate for the nonlinear LC characteristic
and the gray-level-dependent offset voltage. Therefore, a set of
11 nonlinear reference voltages, which are shown in Table I,
are applied to the R-string of DACs. This set of reference
voltages is asymmetric. Fig. 21 shows the measured transfer
curves of the DAC for linear and nonlinear characteristics.
Fig. 22. Deviations between the measured output voltages and their average
values for (a) positive and (b) negative polarities, respectively.
The common-mode voltages are 2.5 and 2.3 V for linear and
nonlinear characteristics, respectively. The more references
there are connected to the R-string of DACs, the smoother the
transfer curve becomes.
Since an LCD driver contains many channels, it is important
that these different channels must be uniform. Fig. 22(a) and (b)
shows the deviations between the measured output voltages and
their average values for positive and negative polarities, respec-
tively. The maximum deviation for positive polarity is 0.44, and
that for negative polarity is 0.68 LSB.
Figs. 23–25 show the measured output waveforms of two
neighboring channels under a load resistance of 20 k and a
capacitance of 220 pF for the gray, horizontal-line, and dot
patterns, respectively. The maximum settling time for the
output to settle to within 0.2% of the final voltage is 2.8 s.
The gray pattern is used to evaluate the uniformity of the
image at fixed gray levels. The horizontal-line patterns are
the repetitive black-and-white line images in the horizontal
direction. The gray and horizontal-line patterns have a sym-
metrical positive/negative voltage swing in driving waveforms.
2600 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 57, NO. 10, OCTOBER 2010
TABLE II
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
TFT-LCD column driver, the proposed driving scheme has a
DAC area saving of 41%.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the Chip Implementation
Center of the National Science Council for its support in chip
fabrication.
REFERENCES
[1] I. Pappas, S. Siskos, and C. A. Dimitriadis, “A fast and compact analog
buffer design for active matrix liquid crystal displays using polysilicon
thin-film transistors,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, Exp. Briefs, vol. 55,
no. 6, pp. 537–540, Jun. 2008.
[2] F. Su and W.-H. Ki, “Component-efficient multiphase switched-capac-
itor dc–dc converter with configurable conversion ratios for LCD driver
applications,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, Exp. Briefs, vol. 55, no. 8,
pp. 753–757, Aug. 2008.
[3] C.-W. Lu and L.-C. Huang, “A 10-bit LCD column driver with piece-
wise linear digital-to-analog converters,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits,
vol. 43, no. 2, pp. 371–378, Feb. 2008.
[4] M. J. Bell, “An LCD column driver using a switch capacitor DAC,”
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 2756–2765, Dec. 2005.
[5] A. Monté, J. Doutreloigne, and A. Van Calster, “Driving-scheme al-
gorithms for intelligent energy-efficient high-voltage display drivers,”
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers, vol. 56, no. 2, pp. 497–507,
Feb. 2009.
[6] J.-S. Kang, J.-H. Kim, S.-Y. Kim, J.-Y. Song, O.-K. Kwon, Y.-J. Lee,
B.-H. Kim, C.-W. Park, K.-S. Kwon, W.-T. Choi, S.-K. Yun, I.-J. Yeo,
K.-B. Han, T.-S. Kim, and S.-I. Park, “A 10 b driver IC for a spatial
optical modulator for full HDTV applications,” in Proc. IEEE ISSCC,
Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 11–15, 2007, pp. 138–139, 592.
[7] B.-D. Choi and O.-K. Kwon, “Pixel circuits and driving methods for
low-cost LCD TV,” IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 50, no. 4, pp.
1169–1173, Nov. 2004.
[8] H.-M. Lee, Y.-S. Son, Y.-J. Jeon, J.-Y. Jeon, G.-H. Lee, S.-C. Jung,
and G.-H. Cho, “A 10 bit gray scale digital-to-analog converter with
an interpolating buffer amplifier for AMLCD column drivers,” in Proc.
SID Symp. Dig., 2007, vol. 38, pp. 346–349.
[9] Y.-C. Sung, O.-K. Kwon, and J.-K. Kim, “10-bit source driver with re-
sistor-resistor-string digital-to-analog converter,” SID J. Soc. Inf. Dis-
play, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 371–377, Apr. 2006.
[10] T. Uno, S. Horino, Y. Hirayama, and Y. Mizumoto, “Liquid crystal dis-
play system using a digital-to-analog converter,” U.S. Patent 6 025 817,
Feb. 15, 2000.
[11] Y.-S. Son and G.-H. Cho, “Design considerations of channel buffer
amplifiers for low-power area-efficient column drivers in active-matrix
LCDs,” IEEE Trans. Consum. Electron., vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 648–655,
May 2008.
[12] T. Itakura, H. Minamizaki, T. Saito, and T. Kuroda, “A 402-output
TFT-LCD driver IC with power control based on the number of colors
selected,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 503–510,
Mar. 2003.
[13] Y.-S. Son, J.-H. Kim, H.-H. Cho, J.-P. Hong, J.-H. Na, D.-S. Kim,
D.-K. Han, J.-C. Hong, Y.-J. Jeon, and G.-H. Cho, “A column driver
with low-power area-efficient push-pull buffer amplifiers for active-
matrix LCDs,” in Proc. IEEE ISSCC, Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 11–15,
2007, pp. 142–143.
[14] D. McCartney, Designing With TFT LCD Column Drivers [Online].
Available: http://www.national.com/AU/design/0,4706,11_0_,00.html
Jul. 2002
[15] C.-W. Lu and K. J. Hsu, “A high-speed low-power rail-to-rail column
driver for AMLCD application,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39,
no. 8, pp. 1313–1320, Aug. 2004.
[16] J.-S. Kim, D.-K. Jeong, and G. Kim, “A multi-level multi-phase charge-
recycling method for low-power AMLCD column drivers,” IEEE J.
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 74–84, Jan. 2000.
[17] S. Yoo, J. Jung, J.-J. Nam, H. Seo, K. Lee, Y. Song, J. Ko, J.-P. Lim, J.
Kim, B.-H. Kim, Y. Cho, J.-S. Kim, and M. Lee, “A 720-channel LCD
source driver with a 12-bit segmented R-C DAC,” in Proc. SID Symp.
Dig., 2008, vol. 39, pp. 882–884.
[18] K. Umeda, Y. Hori, and K. Nakajima, “A novel linear digital-to-analog
converter using capacitor coupled adder for LCD driver ICs,” in Proc.
SID Symp. Dig., 2008, vol. 39, pp. 885–888.
[19] H.-M. Lee, Y.-S. Son, Y.-J. Jeon, J.-Y. Jeon, S.-C. Jung, and G.-H.
Cho, “Area and power efficient 10-bit column driver with interpolating
DAC and push–pull amplifier for AMLCDs,” in Proc. SID Symp. Dig.,
2008, vol. 39, pp. 889–891.
[20] J.-K. Woo, D.-Y. Shin, W.-J. Choe, D.-K. Jeong, and S. Kim, “10-bit
column driver with split-DAC architecture,” in Proc. SID Symp. Dig.,
2008, vol. 39, pp. 892–895.
[21] B. Razavi, Design of Analog CMOS Integrated Circuits. New York:
McGraw-Hill, 2001, pp. 418–426
.
Chih-Wen Lu (M’01) was born in Taiwan. He
received the B.S. degree in electronic engineering
from National Taiwan Institute of Technology,
Taipei, Taiwan, in 1991 and the M.S. degree in
electro-optics and the Ph.D. degree in electronic
engineering from National Chiao Tung University,
Hsinchu, Taiwan, in 1999.
During 1999–2001, he was an Assistant Professor
with the Department of Electrical Engineering,
Da-Yeh University, Changhua, Taiwan. He joined
National Chi Nan University, Puli, Taiwan, in 2001,
where he is currently a Professor with the Department of Electrical Engi-
neering. His research interests include liquid crystal display driver design and
analog/mixed-mode IC design.
 1
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
由本專題計劃的補助，這三年吾人發表了 8 篇期刊論文及 4 篇會議論文，其中有
兩篇發表在最頂尖的 IEEE JSSC，有一篇發表在 IEEE TCAS-I 上，以三年時間及
沒有很多資源的暨南大學來說，這樣的成果已算不錯了。 
 
附件二 
 3
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價值（簡要敘述
成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以 500 字為限） 
1) A 10-Bit LCD Column Driver with Piecewise Linear Digital to Analog Converters (IEEE 
JSSC 2008) 
吾人提出一個包含片片段線性數位至類比的十位元液晶顯示器行驅動器，使用片片段線性
補償以減少晶片面積及增加有效的顏色深度，資料轉換使用電阻串及電荷分享形式的數位
至類比轉換器，它們分別做高及低位元的轉換，為了適用液晶穿透電壓特性曲線，迦碼校
正電壓接到電阻串形式的數位至類比轉換器上，迦碼校正電壓也可以在時序控制器或行驅
動器，用數位的方式做校正，一個製作在 0.35-μm CMOS 製程的十位元液晶顯示器雛型驅
動器顯示：穩定時間在 3μs 之內，一個通道的平均面積為 0.063 mm2，此面積比其他用電
阻串形式數位至類比轉換器的行驅動器的面積小。 
2) A Rail-to-Rail Class-AB Amplifier with an Offset Cancellation for LCD Drivers (IEEE 
JSSC 2009) 
本專題提出一個適合用在高解析度高畫質液晶顯示器應用之具有偏差電壓消除作用的軌
對軌放大器，此放大器使用一組互補式差動放大對，為了得到全幅輸入電壓及偏差電壓消
除的能力，這一組差動放大對分成主要差動放大對和輔助差動放大對。由於元件的不協調
及電荷注入問題所造成的偏差電壓及注入錯誤可被大幅減少。此偏差電壓的消除時間和用
來減少動態功率消耗的電荷守衡時間是同時的，如此驅動時間不需延長。本專題使用
0.35-μm CMOS 製程製作一個雛形放大器，此放大器的負載為一個 3.4 kΩ 電阻及一個 140 
pF 電容，供應電壓為 5V，實驗結果顯示此電路消耗 7.5 μA 的靜態電流，穩定時間為 3 μs，
電壓偏差為 0.48 mV。 
3) An Area-Efficient Fully R-DAC Based TFT-LCD Column Driver (IEEE TCAS-I) 
這個研究我們提出一個使用電阻串形式的數位類比轉換器的液晶顯示器行驅動電路，數位
類比轉換器只提供負極性電壓，正極性電壓是由極性反轉器把負極性電壓反轉到正極性電
壓，偏差消除技術應用在負極性緩衝器及極性反轉器上，本專題使用 0.35-μm CMOS 製程
製作一個雛形行驅動電路以驗證提出來的驅動方法，實驗結果顯示穩定時間在 5μs 之內，
最大的電壓偏差為 0.68 LSB，每一通道的平均面積為 0.04 mm2，與傳統的全電阻串形式的
數位類比轉換器的液晶顯示器行驅動電路比較，吾人提出的電路晶片面積可以節省 41%。
 
 2
技術說明 
1) A 10-Bit LCD Column Driver with Piecewise Linear Digital to 
Analog Converters (IEEE JSSC 2008) 
吾人提出一個包含片片段線性數位至類比的十位元液晶顯示
器行驅動器，使用片片段線性補償以減少晶片面積及增加有效
的顏色深度，資料轉換使用電阻串及電荷分享形式的數位至類
比轉換器，它們分別做高及低位元的轉換，為了適用液晶穿透
電壓特性曲線，迦碼校正電壓接到電阻串形式的數位至類比轉
換器上，迦碼校正電壓也可以在時序控制器或行驅動器，用數
位的方式做校正，一個製作在 0.35-μm CMOS 製程的十位元液
晶顯示器雛型驅動器顯示：穩定時間在 3μs 之內，一個通道的
平均面積為 0.063 mm2，此面積比其他用電阻串形式數位至類
比轉換器的行驅動器的面積小。 
2) A Rail-to-Rail Class-AB Amplifier with an Offset Cancellation for 
LCD Drivers (IEEE JSSC 2009) 
本專題提出一個適合用在高解析度高畫質液晶顯示器應用之
具有偏差電壓消除作用的軌對軌放大器，此放大器使用一組互
補式差動放大對，為了得到全幅輸入電壓及偏差電壓消除的能
力，這一組差動放大對分成主要差動放大對和輔助差動放大
對。由於元件的不協調及電荷注入問題所造成的偏差電壓及注
入錯誤可被大幅減少。此偏差電壓的消除時間和用來減少動態
功率消耗的電荷守衡時間是同時的，如此驅動時間不需延長。
本專題使用 0.35-μm CMOS 製程製作一個雛形放大器，此放大
器的負載為一個 3.4 kΩ 電阻及一個 140 pF 電容，供應電壓為
5V，實驗結果顯示此電路消耗 7.5 μA 的靜態電流，穩定時間
為 3 μs，電壓偏差為 0.48 mV。 
3) An Area-Efficient Fully R-DAC Based TFT-LCD Column Driver 
(IEEE TCAS-I) 
這個研究我們提出一個使用電阻串形式的數位類比轉換器的
液晶顯示器行驅動電路，數位類比轉換器只提供負極性電壓，
正極性電壓是由極性反轉器把負極性電壓反轉到正極性電
壓，偏差消除技術應用在負極性緩衝器及極性反轉器上，本專
題使用 0.35-μm CMOS 製程製作一個雛形行驅動電路以驗證提
出來的驅動方法，實驗結果顯示穩定時間在 5μs 之內，最大的
電壓偏差為 0.68 LSB，每一通道的平均面積為 0.04 mm2，與傳
統的全電阻串形式的數位類比轉換器的液晶顯示器行驅動電
路比較，吾人提出的電路晶片面積可以節省 41%。 
 
 4
產業別 
顯示器產業 
技術/產品應用範圍 
LCD Driver IC 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
適合用在高解析度高畫質液晶顯示器應用之具有偏差電壓消除作
用的軌對軌放大器 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
國際合作計畫赴國外研究心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-260-025 MY3 
計畫名稱 低功率低成本液晶顯示器驅動 IC及高速介面電路之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
盧志文 國立暨南大學電機系 副教授 
出國時間及地點 97年 5月 24日至 97年 5月 30日 
合作研究機構 美國加州大學洛杉磯分校 
合作計畫名稱 60 GHz CMOS頻率合成器 
合作計畫主持人 張懋中 
出國事由 與張懋中教授之研究團隊進行資料轉換電路之研討。 
 
一、內容及成果： 
這次到美國洛杉磯參加 SID的會議順便至美國UCLA和張懋中教授之研究團隊進行國際
合作計畫的討論，在他們的 group meeting中除了了解他們的研發成果外，此行的重點是報告
吾人在台灣所研究的成果並和張懋中教授之研究團隊討論應用在液晶顯示器驅動器之資料轉
換電路的設計，會中確認要做 10-bit DAC，此 10-bit DAC要比 8-bit R-DAC的面積小，所以
要設計一個 two-stage DAC，由於 two-stage DAC要加入兩個 buffers，此兩個 buffers會增加不
少的功率消耗及晶片面積，所以須另想方法解決這個問題。 
 
 
二、建議事項 
和大師討論有很多收獲，自己一個人很容易變成井底之蛙，大學教授出點代價出去走走
總有收獲。 
 
 
三、攜回資料 
由於保密協定的關係，對方的資料是不能帶回台灣。 
 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：盧志文 計畫編號：96-2221-E-260-025-MY3 
計畫名稱：低功率低成本液晶顯示器驅動 IC 及高速介面電路之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 8 4 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 4 4 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
