 1
I. Introduction and Motivation 
Multiple input multiple output (MIMO) is a model for a range of communication problems 
including multiple transmit and receive antenna systems [1], code-division multiple-access 
systems [2], inter-symbol interference channel [3], etc. The canonical form of the model is given 
by1 
 y = Hx + w , (1) 
where [ ]1 T nny y C= ⋅⋅⋅ ∈y , [ ]1 T mmx x C= ⋅⋅⋅ ∈x , [ ]1 T nnw w C= ⋅⋅⋅ ∈w  are the received signal 
vector, transmitted signal vector, and the noise vector, respectively, H  is the channel matrix, 
and C is the set of complex numbers.  For the QAM constellation, after proper scaling and 
shifting, [ ]1 T mmx x= ⋅⋅⋅ ∈Ωx , where ZΩ⊂ , and Z  is the set of complex integers.  
The problem of detecting the MIMO signal in (1) is to find an estimate ˆ m∈Ωx  to 
minimize the error probability { }ˆrP ≠x x , given the received signal vector y and the channel 
matrix H . Maximum likelihood (ML) detector is the optimum detector that minimizes the error 
probability. With no special structure on mΩ , the complexity of the ML detector grows 
exponentially with m  and/or Ω , the cardinality ofΩ , because all the signal vectors need to be 
searched exhaustively for the detection. For the case that ZΩ⊂ , on the other hand, the 
complexity of the ML detector can be reduced by using sphere decoding [4,5], where the 
searching is limited to within a sphere around y , although its complexity may still be too 
demanding for some applications. Different reduced-complexity sub-optimal detectors have 
been proposed in practical systems, including linear and nonlinear detectors [6-11]. For an 
ill-conditioned channel, however, the performance of these detectors is clearly inferior to the 
ML detector. 
Recently, lattice-reduction aided detectors (LRADs) have been proposed to narrow the 
performance gap between the ML and the traditional reduced-complexity detectors [12-21]. 
Basically, this scheme transforms (through lattice reduction) the MIMO system into an 
equivalent one with a better-conditioned channel, where an initial detection is made with a 
reduced-complexity detector. The estimate is then transformed back to the original system to 
obtain the final decision.  It has been shown that LRAD can significantly outperform the 
traditional reduced-complexity detectors [12-21]. LRAD is particularly attractive in a 
quasi-static channel, where the lattice reduction is needed to be done once at the beginning of 
each frame. 
The Lenstra–Lenstra–Lovász (LLL) [22] and the Seysen’s algorithms [23,16] are two most 
 3
transmission frames and available bandwidth, transmission buffer and decoder buffer are 
required to smooth the transmission quality and proper MAC control are critical to decide the 
transmission priority [33, 34]. 
As for the AAS technology and its corresponding scheduling method, the authors of [35] 
have provided an algorithm which both takes the benefit of spatial channel variant and meets the 
QoS requirement. On the other hand, since providing multiple beams simultaneously can be 
treated as a kind of multi-channel transmission, [36] provided an exhausted way, which 
incorporates multiple schedulers to schedule the packets in parallel, to make sure all the 
channels can be fully utilized under QoS requirement. 
Due to asymmetric traffic and the interdependence of traffic capacity and coverage, this 
problem could be exacerbated in next-generation CDMA cellular networks, especially over the 
capacity-limited downlink [37]-[40]. Several schemes for dynamic cell configuration (DCC) 
have recently been proposed [41]-[46]. In [41], the competitive characteristics of network 
coverage and capacity were analyzed for a simple network. Only one class-of-service was 
considered in [41], and it may be difficult to extend these schemes to multiple classes of service. 
Some techniques based on heuristics have also been proposed for dynamic pilot power 
allocation (DPPA) to balance downlink traffic load, while assuring service coverage [42], [43]. 
However, these schemes may cause “coverage failure regions” between cells where pilot signals 
are too weak to serve a MS [44], [45]. Moreover, a common shortcoming of the previous work 
[41]-[45] is that only pilot power is adjusted dynamically in the time-varying environment, 
without adjusting other parameters critical to radio resource management (RRM). In fact, pilot 
power allocation and other RRM parameters are tightly coupled. In our previous work [46], we 
have shown that system performance can be improved significantly by a self-organized DCC 
scheme with coordinated call admission control (CAC), compared with fixed pilot power 
allocation (FPPA) and DPPA without taking CAC into account. Other work has shown that 
signal quality degradation can be prevented by configuring cell areas adaptively and setting 
power levels appropriately [40], [47], and soft handoff has significant impacts on the system 
capacity and cell coverage [48], [49]. Therefore, an effective mechanism, link proportional 
power allocation (LPPA), was proposed for downlink soft handoff in [50] and [51]. It was 
shown that LPPA can enhance system capacity in CDMA cellular systems with mixed-size cells, 
compared with conventional site-selection diversity transmissions (SSDT) scheme [52]. 
In future wireless networks, heterogeneous and customized services with diverse traffic 
characteristics and QoS requirements are expected to be provided via a number of air interfaces. 
Many scheduling algorithms have been widely studied for wireline networks [53]-[54]. The 
utility-based scheduling algorithm over radio channels, is usually formulated as a complicated 
constrained optimization problem with real time requirement. To solve this optimization 
problem, the class of generalized HNN has been adopted for real-time tasks with several 
inherent defficiencies. A special type of Hopfield neural networks (HNN), named cellular 
 5
problem formulations is ignored. We propose an adaptive radio resource allocation (ARRA) 
algorithm for downlink OFDMA/ SDMA systems with multimedia traffic. This radio resource 
allocation work is mathematically formulated into an optimization problem with an objective to 
maximize the system throughput under four designed constraints 
For spectrum handoff in cognitive radio networks with reactive sensing, the concept of 
spectrum handoff in CR networks is different from the traditional handoff mechanisms in 
wireless networks. In spectrum handoff, two types of users with different priorities are 
considered. The high-priority users have the right to interrupt the transmission of the 
low-priority users and ask them to change the channel even though the signal strength of the 
low-priority user is still acceptable. In the traditional handoff, all users have the same priorities 
and the decision of changing channels is made mainly due to the deterioration of the current 
channel signal quality. 
The spectrum usages with reactive sensing-based spectrum handoff were investigated in 
[63-66]. However, the interaction of spectrum usage of primary users and secondary users were 
usually modeled by a multi-dimension Markov chain, which is usually quite difficult to analyze 
the delay performance with multiple candidate channels and multiple spectrum handoffs during 
each frame transmission. Further, the overhead of the spectrum sensing was not considered.  
Latency Analysis for Dynamic Spectrum Access in Cognitive Radio: Dedicated or 
Embedded Control Channel? When secondary users borrow licensed spectrum, access delay for 
the secondary CR users should be minimized since the primary user may appear to take back its 
spectrum any time. Basically, the design principles of control channel allocations in 
multi-channel-based networks can be categorized into four approaches: 1) simultaneously 
dedicated the specific spectrum and timeslot [67-69], where the control frames are exchanged by 
a specific hopping sequence; 2) dedicated the specific timeslot for each spectrum [70-74], where 
the control frames can only be exchanged during a specific period ; 3) dedicated a specific 
spectrum for each timeslot [75-80], where the control frames are exchanged at the dedicated 
control channels; and 4) embedded spectrum scheme. Note that the first two approaches are not 
suitable for CR networks because the secondary CR users can only borrow the primary users' 
licensed spectrum for a short period of time, it may be difficult in a CR network to find a 
predefined periods and reserve them for the secondary CR users.  
Concurrent Transmission MAC Protocol for Enhancing Throughput and Avoiding 
Spectrum Sensing in Cognitive Radio: Medium Access via Collision Avoidance with Enhanced 
Parallelism (MACA-P) [81]. The key idea of this protocol is to introduce an extra gap between 
the RTS/CTS frames and the subsequent DATA frames in addition to the short inter-frame space 
(SIFS) of the IEEE 802.11 MAC protocol. This extra gap allows all the neighboring nodes to 
exchange the RTS/CTS frames for the purpose of concurrent transmission. After successfully 
exchanging the RTS/CTS frames by the end of this extra gap, the links with concurrent 
transmission opportunity can start transmitting their DATA frames. For concurrent transmissions, 
 7
II. Approach 
II.i. Reduced-complexity MIMO detection for a near maximum-likelihood performance 
Traditionally, LLL and Seysen’s algorithm are used in CFAD for the channel 
factorization =H HD . In this section, a new channel factorization is proposed to minimize the 
sum MSE in the z -domain to improve the performance of the initial detection. That along with 
EWCL can approach to within a fractional dB of the ML performance. 
• MMSE Criterion 
Let H=G B  be the MMSE filter for the initial detection in the z -domain, given the 
factorization =H HD . It can be shown that  
 
12
2
2arg min
H Hw
MMSE m
x
E σσ
−⎛ ⎞⎡ ⎤= − = +⎜ ⎟⎣ ⎦ ⎝ ⎠G
G Gy z D H H I H  (2) 
It can be shown that the covariance matrix of the error vector MMSE −G y z  is  
 
( )( )
12
2
2 
 
H
MMSE MMSE MMSE
H Hw
w m
x
H
E
σσ σ
−
⎡ ⎤= − −⎣ ⎦
⎛ ⎞= +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
=
Φ G y z G y z
D H H I D
DAD
, (3) 
where
12
2
2
H w
w m
x
σσ σ
−⎛ ⎞= +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
A H H I  is a positive definite matrix, and the sum MSE is 
 ( ) ( )HMMSEtr tr=Φ DAD . (4) 
Using (7) and (8), our goal is to find the factorization opt=H HD by solving the following 
optimization problem 
 ( )opt arg min ,   s.t.  is a unimodular matixHtr⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦DD DAD D . (5) 
The exhaustive search of the exact solution in (9) demands an exponential complexity. Here, 
two algorithms are proposed to obtain approximate solutions efficiently: one is LLL-based, and 
the other is a greedy algorithm with row-wise optimization.  
• Algorithm-I (LLL-based) 
By applying singular-value-decomposition (SVD), the channel matrix H can be expressed 
as 
 9
opt opt,1 opt,, , m⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦C c cL .  Since optC  and C  generate the same lattice, opt opt=C C T  for a 
unimodular matrix optT . In addition, opt opt
H=C CD , thus ( )1opt opt H−=D T . Given optD , the desirable 
factorization is 1opt opt
−=H HD . 
The LLL lattice-reduction algorithm will be adopted here as a practical way to search 
for optD .  In this case, if C  denotes the reduced basis by the LLL algorithm, that is  
LLL=C CT , 
where T is a unimodular matrix, then the approximate solution is obtained as ( )1 H−=D T and 
=H HD . It can be shown that it is shown that D  is same for any decomposition H=A C C , and 
thus the detection performance the channel factorization is independent of what particular 
decomposition is used. The complete algorithm is summarized in Table 1.  
• Algorithm-II 
A greedy algorithm is proposed here as an alternative to Algorithm-I to obtain an 
approximate solution of (7). As to be shown in Section V, this algorithm performs slightly better 
than Algorithm-I and has a fixed complexity which is considered to be advantageous in 
hardware implementation. 
Using 1 2
H H H H
m⎡ ⎤= ⋅⋅⋅⎣ ⎦D d d d , the sum MSE can be rewritten as 
 ( )
1 1
m m
H
MMSE k k k
k k
tr mse
= =
= =∑ ∑Φ d Ad , (10) 
where Hk k kmse = d Ad . In this algorithm, firstly we observe that Hk k kmse = d Ad  depending 
only on kd , 1,...,k m= . Therefore, the updating of the matrix D  can be done one row at a time 
to minimize kmse , from the first to the last row. This iteration can be repeated again and again 
until no improvement is possible, starting from mD = I . 
Without loss of generality, consider that the kth-row of D is to be updated. A new row 
vector newkd  is proposed as 
 new * * * *1 1 1 1 1 1k k k k k k m mα α α α− − + += + + + + + +d d d d d dL L , (11) 
where { }m m kα ≠  are parameters to be optimized to lower kmse .  It can be shown that 
( )new new1 1 1,..., , , ,..., HHH H H Hk k k m− +⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦D d d d d d is unimodular provided that D is unimodular, 
 11
 1,1 1,32,2
3,1 3,3
H
k k
⎡ ⎤= =⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
R R
S D AD
R R
.  (16) 
Since kD  has full row-rank (because D  has full row-rank), 2,2S  is positive definite. Thus,   
 1,opt 1,opt 2,2 2,1
2,opt
k
−⎡ ⎤= = −⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
α
α S S
α
,  (17) 
and  
 new 1,opt 2,opt 1 
H H
k ⎡ ⎤= ⎣ ⎦d α α D .  (18) 
Generally, the elements of , optkα  are not complex integers and thus need to be rounded to ones 
in order to keep newD a unimodular matrix . Furthermore, more than one complex integer can be 
retained in the rounding [ ]opt,k jα  so as to improve performance. Denote ψ k j⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦α  be the set of 
retained complex integers in the rounding [ ],optk jα , and 
[ ]{ }1 1 1 ,  k k jTk k k m jα α α α α− + ⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦Ψ = ⋅⋅⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ∈Ψ=α αα . Then, the final α  to be used in updating can 
be obtained by 
 
1
upd
1 2Ψ
2
arg min  1   1
k k
H H
∈
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
αα
α
α α α R
α
 (19) 
In our experience with extensive simulations, ψ 2
k j
⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦
>
α
 provides very little 
improvement. Therefore, ψ 2,   
k j
j⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦ = ∀α will be used in the following. Finally, the new update 
of kd is given by ( ) ( )Hupd upd upd1 2 1 Hk ⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦d α α D , and ( )upd upd upd Hk k kmse = d A d , if 
upd
k kmse mse< . Otherwise, no update is performed and kd  remains no change. The complete 
algorithm is terminated if the maximum number of iteration IN  is reached. It is worthy to note 
that since at each step of updating updk kmse mse≤  and the minimal kmse  is bounded below, the 
algorithm converges, although it may not converge to the minimal kmse . 
 13
transmitting FN packets, the error rate of the video frame is the probability that there is less 
than 1FN − packets transmitting correctly. From Eq.(1), the probability of error is: 
 
( )1
0
1
F
R
N
N ii
F
i
P P P
− −
=
= −∑
 (21) 
where P is the packet success rate. 
To find the minimal reservation time under the fixed packet error rate, we could calculate 
the smallest RN  based on FN , target frame error rate, and current packet error rate. We 
suppose that there are MBN video frames in the MAC buffer, and they are fragmented into FN  
packets in fixed payload length L. The minimal required reservation packet number minN  for 
transmitting FN  packets to reach error constraint eP  could be solved by: 
 
( ) ( )1
1
 min   
subject to  1 1 1
F
R MB
R
N
N i Ni
e
i
N
P P P
− −
=
− ≤ − −∑
  (22) 
This optimization problem is an integer programming problem. We must solve it and 
create a table to look up ahead of implementation. When FN  is large enough, the ratio of 
min / FN N  converges to the reciprocal of packet success rate. This means that each packet needs 
to retransmit average 1/P  times and is shown as follow: 
 If FN →∞ , then minN →∞  
 By central limit theorem, ( )
min
min
~ (0,1)
1
X N P N
N P P
−
−  
 where X is the number of packets received correctly. 
 
min
min
( )
(1 )
X N PP t t
N P P
⎛ ⎞− ≤ = Φ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟−⎝ ⎠
 
where ( )tΦ  is cdf of standard normal distribution. The constraint of problem (22) can be 
rewritten: 
 15
fragmented packets of each video frame and packet success rate using payload length L. 
The optimization problem (23) is equivalent to: 
 
min 2
2
1 max
( ) ( )
1max
( ) ( )F
N L T L
LN L T L
⇒
 
Because the video frame size in the MAC buffer is known before the transmission, 
( )FLN L  is fixed at that transmission. The optimization problem becomes: 
 2
( )max
( )
P L L
T L  
This problem has been solved also in [34] WLAN systems.  For HD H.264 video 
transmission, the condition is always satisfied. In AWGN channel, the PSR can be defined as 
[34] 
 ( )8( ) 1 LbP L p≈ −  (24) 
where bp  is bit error rate. From [32], opL  in AWGN channel is 
 
2 4
2op
b b acL
a
− − −=
 (25) 
In WiMedia system, we have 
 
Pr
Pr
64 log(1 )
8log(1 ) 38 2 2
38 2 2
b
PLCP
b PSDU e
PLCP
PLCP
PSDU e
PLCP
a p
Lb p R pSIFS T
R
Lc R pSIFS T
R
= −
⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞= − + × + +⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞= + × + +⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠  
where PLCPL : length of PLCP header in bytes, Pr eT : the time of preamble, PSDUR : data rate 
corresponding to PHY mode, PLCPR : data rate (39.6Mbs) to transmit PLCP header. 
The two-stage scheduling algorithm is described by prioritizing users to be served and 
intra-beam interference avoidance. In the first stage, the prioritization is based on user’s channel 
condition and packet’s deadline. All AAS users are categorized into groups according to their 
channel condition. Higher priority is given to groups who need narrow beams in order to 
maintain connection quality. Users in the same group are further prioritized by their packet 
deadlines. The deadline for real-time services is defined as  
 17
Vω  can be obtained from the sample mean and variance, respectively, as follows. 
 
1
1 ( ),
N
T
M b
n
P n
N
ω
=
= ∑   (28) 
 ( )2
1
1 .( )
1
N
T
V b M
n
P n
N
ω ω
=
= −− ∑   (29) 
The decision process can be implemented in each BS in a distributed manner because the 
variation of the BS’s power load can implicitly reveal the load information about all cells. 
• [Actions]: At each decision epoch, the BS makes a decision to choose a suitable fraction of 
the pilot power based on state s. The action ( )a s A∈  of BS b is defined as the fraction 
min max[ , ]bf f f∈  of the pilot power relative to the maximum transmit power. 
• [Rewards function]: Based on the action ( )a s  in a state s , the system earns a reward 
( , ( ))s a sϕ . We choose the total throughput as the reward  
 ( , ( )) ,m
m
s a s rϕ =∑   (30) 
where min max[ , ]mr r r∈  is the transmission rate of MS m. 
B. MDP Solution by Reinforcement-Learning 
The objective of the decision process is to find an optimal policy *π  for each state s , 
which minimizes the cumulative measure of the reward ( , ( ))t t ts a sϕ ϕ=  that is received over 
time, where the subscript represents the time instant t. The total expected discounted reward 
over an infinite time horizon can be represented by the value function with policy π , 
00
( ) { ( , ( )) | }t t ttV s E s s s s
π λ ϕ π∞== ⋅ =∑ , with discount factor 0 1λ≤ < . Let Pr( | , ( ))s s a s′  be 
the transition probability from state s  to s′ . The value function can be rewritten as 
 ( ) ( , ( )) Pr( | , ( )) ( ),
s S
V s U s s s s s V sπ ππ λ π
′∈
′ ′= + ∑   (31) 
where ( , ( )) { ( , ( ))}U s s E s sπ ϕ π= . Define a Q-function of state-action pair with policy π  as 
( , ( )) ( , ( )) Pr( | , ( )) ( )
s S
Q s a s U s a s s s s V sπ πλ π′∈ ′ ′= + ∑ . The optimal value function *V π  with the 
optimal policy *π  satisfies Bellman’s optimality criterion 
 
* **( , ( )) max ( , ( )).
b A
Q s a s V Q s b sπ π
∈
= =   (32) 
Thus, the optimal Q-function can be obtained from *( , ( ))Q s a s  finding an optimal policy 
of Q-function 
*
( , ( ))Q s a sπ . Without knowing ( , ( ))U s a s  and Pr( | , ( ))s s a s′ , the Q-learning 
process can still find an optimal policy *π  through updating ( , ( ))Q s a s  to find *( , ( ))Q s a s  in 
a recursive manner using the information of current state ts , action ta , reward tϕ , and next 
state ts ′ . Watkins has shown that if the Q-value of each feasible state-action pair ( , ( ))s a s  is 
 19
 *( )[dBm] ( )[dB] [dB] [dB],I IT R LE r PL r H= − +Ω   (34) 
where IRH  is the receiver sensitivity of the pilot signal such that 
[dB] [dB] [dB] [dBm]I IR S I oH H η= +Ω − , where ISH  is the required SINR value of the pilot 
signal, which is equal to the required Eb/No of the pilot signal *[dB]Iγ , minus the processing 
gain of the pilot signal [dB]IPG . Then, substituting (34), we obtain 
*[dBm] [dBm] ( )[dB] [dB]I IT T R RE E H r H= − + . Hence, as soon as the pilot power of BS b, IbP , 
has been adjusted dynamically, the maximum link power of cell should be 
 *[dBm] [dBm] ( )[dB] [dB].I Ib b R Rp P H r H≤ − +%   (35) 
The maximum link power constraint is, thus, coupled with pilot power accordingly. Note 
that the same constraint of the maximum link power for different service rates is adopted in this 
paper because the processing gain can be regarded as a priority index for different service rates. 
D. Dynamic CAC Criterion Design 
In DCC-RL, as soon as the optimal pilot power IbP  has been determined by the dynamic 
pilot power controller, as shown in Fig. 3, the corresponding maximum link power bp%  can be 
updated by (10). The SINR threshold bΛ  for call admission in cell b becomes 
 *[dB] [dBm] ( )[dB] [dB] [dBm].b b I op PL r ηΛ = − −Ω −%   (36) 
For CAC of new calls, MS m originating a new call measures and reports its received SINR ˆ SH . 
The BS accepts the newcall if ˆ [dB] [dB]S bH > Λ , otherwise, the new call is blocked. For CAC 
of handoff calls, the soft handoff algorithm is implemented, in which maximal ratio combining 
is used to obtain the overall SINR of MS h ˆ SH , from all serving BSs in the active set hD . A 
handoff request is issued to BS b whenever an add event occurs. The BS accepts the handoff 
request if ˆ [dB] [dB]S bH > Λ , and the admitted handoff MS adds BS b into its active set hD . 
Otherwise, the handoff call request is blocked. On the other hand, if the blocked handoff call has 
not yet exceeded the handoff delay time, the MS can make a handoff request again as long as the 
 21
for connection i at time t. The constraint 2ψ  indicates no further utility can be gained if ( )ir t  
exceeds the supported rate which is the rate when the power ratio ( )ic t  equals ( )2log ( ) ii iW MSF t κ⋅ ⋅R , or 
the necessary rate to transmit all remaining packets in ( )iQ t , where the necessary rate is the rate 
when ( )ic t  equals ( )( ) /( )i fiQ t TtR . Then the RR decision maker constructs the second input matrix 
(2)
,[ ],i kY  1 i N≤ ≤ , 1 k K≤ ≤ , where (2), 2, 2 ki k iY ψ −= ⋅ , according to the second constraint for each 
connection. 
 
Fig. 1.  The two-layer structure CNN processor. 
The CNN processor receives input matrices, (1),[ ]i kY  and 
(2)
,[ ]i kY , and determines the 
optimal radio resource assignment vector *( )c tv  to maximize the overall utility function within 
the system constraints 1ψ  and 2ψ . During the computation process, denote by τ , the 
instantaneous time index of the CNN and by ( , )c t τv  the instantaneous radio resource 
assignment vector at time τ  during the frame t. For each ( , )ic t τ , 1 i N≤ ≤ , it is represented 
by K bits, , ( )i kX τ , 1 k K≤ ≤ , and ( , )ic t τ  can be expressed by 
 ,
1
( , ) ( ) 2 .
K
k
i i k
k
c t Xτ τ −
=
≅ ⋅∑   (37) 
When the CNN processor arrives at an equilibrium, the output will converge to the optimal radio 
resource assignment vector, ie., *lim ( , ) ( )c t c tτ τ→∞ =v v . 
 23
is based on the greedy algorithm. The greedy approach has been shown that it can achieve a 
near-optimal solution with lower computational complexity. Therefore, the proposed ARRA 
algorithm contains two parts for solving the optimization problem is given. The first part is a 
dynamic priority adjustment (DPA) scheme and the second part is a priority-based greedy (PBG) 
scheme. The details are described in the following. 
A. DPA Scheme 
 Here we introduce a time-to-expiration (TTE) parameter to indicate the urgency degree of 
a user at the current frame for the DPA scheme. For user k, we denote the TTE parameter and the 
number of residual bits of the head-of-line (HOL) packet by kV  and kB , respectively. The 
smaller kV , the more the degree of urgency is of user k. For users with RT service class, the kV  
is intuitively given by, 
 *k k kV D D= − , (39) 
where kD  is the delay time from the arrival of the HOL packet of user k to the current frame, 
and the unit of both kD  and 
*
kD  is in frames. For users with NRT service class, the kV  is 
given by, 
 *
k k
k k
k
B BV D
R
⎢ ⎥′ + ′= −⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
, (40) 
where x⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦  is the largest integer smaller than x, D′  is the time duration while there is data 
buffered in the queue of user k before the current frame, kB′  is the total number of transmission 
bits of user k in kD′ , and *kR  is the minimum required transmission rate in a unit of bits per 
frame. The derivation of kV  in (40) of NRT user k comes from the inequality 
( ) ( ) *k k k k kB B V D R′ ′+ + ≥ , which means that the average rate should be greater than the 
minimum required transmission rate. An NRT user’s HOL packet should complete its 
transmission within its TTE value, otherwise the rate requirement of the user is not satisfied. 
Finally, for users with BE service class, the kV = ∞  since there is no delay or rate requirement 
for BE users. 
 Given kV  and kB  of user k, its priority value at the beginning of a frame, kR , is 
defined as, 
 25
 
( ) ( )( )
( )
( ) ( )
( ) * ( ) ( ) * ( )
, ,
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
, ,
, , ,
if 0 2 and ,
, otherwise,
n
k n k k n kk K
k n k n n
p BER p BER
C x K Q
+
+
∈
+
⎧ ⎡ ⎤−⎣ ⎦⎪⎪⎪= ≤ ≤ ≤⎨⎪⎪∞⎪⎩
∑ x x x
x
l l
l l l l
l l l l  (42) 
where the term in the square bracket is the immediate cost , and ( )+x l  is the assignment vector 
after the modulation of user k on subchannel n is increased by one, given the current ( )x l . The 
( )+x l  will be the same as ( )x l  except ( ) ( ), , 1k n k nx x
+ = +l l . Note that the increase of the modulation 
order from zero to one means adding a new user to a subchannel. Since adding a new user to a 
subchannel requires recalculation of beamforming vectors, the required transmission power for 
maintaining the same modulation order for the users that are already in the subchannel is 
increased. The cost function, defined in (42), also includes the above increasing power. Hence 
the spatial correlation between the new user and the users that are already in the subchannel is 
also measured by the cost function. 
At the beginning of a frame, the PBG scheme receives the information { },1kR k K≤ ≤  
from the result of the DPA scheme and initially sets the assignment variables, ( ),k nx
l , ,k n∀ , the 
current used power, denoted by ( )P l , to be zero, and the set of free subchannels available for 
the l th OFDMA symbol, denoted by ( )freeN l , to be { }( ) 1freeN n n N= ≤ ≤l , for all l . The PBG 
scheme then finds the optimal assignment vectors, ( )(1) ( )Lx xL , which is the solution of the 
resource allocation in a frame. 
 For detailed description, a pseudocode of the PBG scheme is given in Appendix I. The 
PBG scheme runs in an iterative process for symbol l  to find ( )x l , 1 L≤ ≤l . It constructs a 
candidate user set, denoted by Ω , and selects the optimal pair of user and subchannel, denoted 
by ( )* *,k n , which is defined as the highest priority user on the subchannel such that its cost 
value is the smallest. The Ω  contains the backlogged users with the highest priority, and the 
( )* *,k n  is obtained by choosing the user in Ω  and the subchannel in ( )freeN l  such that the cost 
value, ( )* *,k nC
l , is minimal. If the power budget in the l th OFDMA symbol is still sufficient for 
increasing the modulation order for user *k  on subchannel *n , then the modulation order of 
the pair ( )* *,k n  is increased by one, i.e. * * * *( ) ( ), , 1k n k nx x= +l l . In each iteration, if q bits are 
 27
the primary users for a short period of time. Hence, unlike many available multi-channel MAC 
protocols for ad hoc networks where throughput is the main performance issue, the DSA 
protocols in CR networks shall place more emphases on the access latency. Hence, one 
fundamental issue arises: how can the spectrum be dimensioned for control channels in order to 
minimize the access delay of DSA protocol in CR networks? 
 In this topic, we provide a comparative study in an analytical manner on the latency 
performance of two DSA protocols: 1) dedicated control channel, and 2) embedded dedicated 
control channel approaches. Our results show that an optimal ratio of the control channel 
bandwidth over the total channel bandwidth can be found to minimize the latency of DSA with 
dedicated control channels. However, the delay performance of DSA with dedicated control 
channels is more sensitive to the variations of the data lengths than that of DSA with embedded 
control channels. Hence, we conclude that the way of dimensioning the spectrum for control 
frames for DSA in CR networks should be adaptive to the variations of the traffic characteristics 
and the number of users. 
II.viii. Concurrent Transmission MAC Protocol for Enhancing Throughput and Avoiding 
Spectrum Sensing in Cognitive Radio 
 For the cognitive radio (CR) network, a fundamental issue is how to identify the spectrum 
opportunities. First, each CR node determines whether there exists transmission opportunities on 
unlicensed bands. If not, this node will find other opportunity on licensed bands. Thus, 
increasing the opportunities of concurrent transmissions in unlicensed bands can reduce the 
overhead of wide-band sensing. 
 Based on the carrier sensing multiple access protocol, we propose a novel concurrent 
transmissions MAC (CT-MAC) protocol to identify the possibility of establishing the second 
link in the presence of the first link in the unlicensed band. In addition to reducing the overhead 
of wide-band sensing, the proposed CT-MAC scheme can enhance overall throughput and is 
backward compatible with the IEEE 802.11 standard. 
II.ix. Spatial Coexistence of Infrastructure-Based and Ad Hoc Connections for Cognitive 
Radio Systems 
 Through wide-band spectrum sensing, cognitive radio (CR) can identify the opportunity 
of reusing the frequency spectrum of other wireless systems. To save time and energy of 
wide-band spectrum, we investigate to what extent a CR system incorporating the location 
awareness capability can establish a scanning-free region where a peer-to-peer ad hoc network 
can overlay on an infrastructure-based network. Based on the carrier sense multiple access with 
collision avoidance (CSMA/CA) medium access control (MAC) protocol, the concurrent 
transmission probability of a peer-to-peer connection and an infrastructure-based connection is 
 29
III. Conclusion and Discussion 
Figure 2 is a comparison of bit-error-rate (BER) of different channel factorizations with 
MMSE-LD as the reduced-complexity detector. As can be seen, the proposed algorithms 
significantly outperform other lattice-reduction algorithms: around 4 dB gain over LLL-primal 
and 2 dB over LLL-dual, SA and LLL-extended at 3BER 10−≤ . Algorithm-II performs slightly 
better than Algorithm-I, and LLL-dual, LLL-extended and SA perform similarly at 
3BER 10−≤ while LLL-extended is clearly superior to LLL-dual and SA at low BER ranges, 
say 2BER 10−≤ . Figure 3 also compares the BER performance of different factorization 
algorithms but with the sorted SIC as the reduced-complexity detector. In this case, all 
algorithms perform similarly; this may be attributed to the fact that in the sorted SIC detector, 
the noise enhancement is not as significant as in MMSE-LD, and therefore the performance 
improvement provided by the proposed algorithms is less prominent. In Figures 2 and 3, it is 
observed that a large performance gap exists between the ML and the reduced-complexity 
detectors: more than 4dB for MMSE-LD and 2 dB for the sorted SIC at 3BER 10−≤ . 
 
Figure 2 BER comparisons of different channel factorizations with MMSE-LD as the 
reduced-complexity detector. 
In Figure 4, we show the performance improvement provided by EWCL for Algorithm-II 
with 8, 8m n= = .  EWCL outperforms the sorted SIC and MMSE-LD by 1.5 dB and 3.5 dB 
at 3BER 10−≤ , respectively. Figure 5 compares different factorization algorithms with EWCL as 
the reduced-complexity detector. Again, the proposed methods offers around 2 dB gain over 
LLL-dual, LLL-extended and SA and 4dB over LLL-primal at 3BER 10−≤ . Furthermore, as can 
 31
Algorithm-I, LLL-extended, LLL-dual and SA. The same order of complexity is observed for 
other cases not shown here. Algorithm-I is slightly more complex than LLL-primal because of 
 
Figure 5 Comparison different channel factorizations with EWCL as the reduced-complexity 
detector. 
the extra complexity for the factorization of A . In addition, in this specific example, 
Algorithm-II is more complex than the LLL-based algorithm for most of the channel realizations 
(over 95%) and than SA for about 50% of the channel realizations. Nevertheless, Algorithm–II 
has a fixed complexity which is considered to be advantageous in hardware implementation. 
Finally, it is noted that the channel factorization is needed to be performed once at the beginning 
of a frame for a block-faded channel; the complexity of channel factorization is not a dominant 
factor in determining the overall complexity of detection. 
 
Figure 6 Complexity comparison of different channel factorizations. 
 33
minor additional MAS slots are needed. In other words, the extra slots allocated for 
retransmission can significantly improve the error performance. If the payload length is chosen 
simply to reach the target error rate, the chosen payload length needs to be small, but the 
proportion of overhead in the packet will be increased. Besides, the required reservation time 
(reserved MAS slots) are much more than the reservation time as compared to the payload 
length based on the optimal payload length Lop calculated for achieving the error rate criterion of 
the HD video. For example, the target packet error rate is set to be 0.05, and we can find the 
reservation MAS number is much more than the reservation MAS number by using the optimal 
payload length Lop calculated from high packet error rates (> 0.2) for achieving the strict HD 
video error rate of 10-7. 
Second, the performance of AAS-enabled SDMA over WiMAX system, in terms of MAC 
throughput, outage probability, unsatisfied rate and packet loss rate is evaluated. In “with 
SDMA” case, it exists AAS duration in the DL subframe, while it does not in “without SDMA”. 
From Fig. 9, the MAC throughput for FTP service scenario has been improved significantly in 
both reuse-factor 1 and 3. This is because more resource units are available. The cross point, 
especially in reuse-factor 1, appears due to the lack of multiuser diversity when cell loading is 
low and the extra overhead required by implementing AAS. 
 
Fig. 9 MAC throughput for FTP service with/without SDMA 
As for the outage probability, the percentage of users fail to achieve QPSK is shown in 
fig.10 Due to long delay margin of non-real-time services, the outage probability of FTP service 
is quite low (less than 0.4%) in both reuse factor 1 and 3 cases. For the unsatisfied rate, which 
grows as higher interference level, shown in fig.11, the percentage of packets exceed the soft 
delay bound is improved by more than 40% due to the AAS-enabled SDMA can create more 
available resource units. 
For VoIP services, without SDMA, the outage probability grows significantly in reuse 
factor 1 case, as shown in fig.12. The same observation also applied to the packet loss rate, 
shown in fig.13. In the reuse factor 1, the employment of SDMA is necessary because of the 
suppression of the excessive interferenece. On the other hand, for the reuse factor 3, even 
without SDMA, the performance for voice is still acceptable. There is only a minor 
 35
 
Figure 13 Packet loss rate for VoIP service with/without SDMA 
Fig. 14(a) and (b) shows the average pilot power distribution of the hotspot, first-tier, and 
second-tier cells using DCC-LPPA and DCC-SSDT schemes, respectively. We can see that the 
DCC-RL schemes adjust the pilot power in each cell according to various system situations. 
When the traffic load ratio is increased, the pilot power of the hot spot cell is reduced 
aggressively so as to balance traffic load with adjacent cells, but the coverage is shrunk 
accordingly. In this way, the BS of the hotspot cell can save its transmit power to serve new call 
arrivals. Besides, adjustments of the pilot power can make the existing MSs near the cell 
boundary enter soft handoff mode so as to balance traffic load. Furthermore, for the hotspot cell, 
the slope of the pilot power level versus traffic load ratio for DCC-SSDT is sharper than that for 
DCC-LPPA. This is because both DCC and LPPA strategies are helpful for power balancing, so 
that the pilot power of the DCC-LPPA scheme does not have to be adjusted aggressively. 
 
Figure 14. Average pilot power of hotspot, first-tier, and second-tier cells for (a) LPPA scheme 
and (b) SSDT scheme under FIX and DCC-RL. 
 37
transmission rate, * , ,m iR  {NRT}i∈ , at the point of 135 connections as shown in fig.17. 
Therefore, CNNU can always has higher capacity and enlarge the QoS guaranteed region. This 
 
Figure 16.  The average system throughput. 
 
Figure 17.  QoS performance measures 
is because that the CNN processor can quickly determine the optimal radio resource vector, and 
the CNNU-based scheduler is able to more efficiently adapt to the link variation and keep the 
QoS requirements guaranteed for different traffic classes as effective as possible. The priority 
bias makes the RT connections share the radio resource with relatively higher priority over NRT 
connections and, at the same time, ensures the average packet dropping ratio requirement of 
each connection according to its location dependent information. Beyond the point of 180 
connections, the throughput of exponential rule algorithm is almost saturated and the throughput 
 39
maximum capacity is small, thus the packet dropping ratio becomes large at a high traffic load 
even though it gives high weights on RT users. On the other hand, the ARRA algorithm 
promotes the RT users with the larger packet delay as more urgent users and gives them higher 
priority. Therefore, the packet dropping ratio can be small and the delay requirement of RT users 
can be satisfied. 
 
Figure 19. (a) Packet Dropping Ratio of Voice Users (b) Packet Dropping Ratio of Video Users 
 Figure 20 shows the preemption probability over different values of μ2. It can be expected 
that p decreases as μ2 increases or λ1 decreases. Note that the simulation results are shown to 
match the proposed analytical results quite well. 
 
Figure 20. The preemption probability p over different values of μ2. 
Figure21 shows the effect of control channel bandwidth ratio on the access delay of the 
CR MAC with dedicated and embedded control channels. In the figure, one can see the 
existence of an optimal control channel bandwidth ratio with the minimum access delay. In the 
cases with 15 and 20 users, the access delay is minimal when the ratio of the control channel 
 41
protocols. As shown in the figure, the legacy IEEE 802.11 MAC does not allow more than two 
transmissions simultaneously. Thus, the maximal throughput is constant for various numbers of 
nodes. By contrast, the proposed CT-MAC protocol allows multiple concurrent transmissions. 
As shown in the figure, the maximal throughput increases as the total number of nodes increases. 
For example, when both the numbers of inner and outer nodes are equal to four, the maximum 
throughput of the proposed CT-MAC protocol is 370\% higher than that of the IEEE 802.11 
MAC protocol. 
 
Figure 23. Comparison of the maximal network throughput between the propose CT-MAC 
protocol and the legacy IEEE 802.11 MAC protocol for various numbers of nodes, where (k,k) 
means the both numbers of inner and outer nodes are k. 
Figure 24 shows the impact of the primary user's location on the uplink concurrent 
transmission probability PCT(u) where the required link SIR threshold is 0 dB or 3 dB. First, one  
 
Figure 24. The concurrent transmission probability PCT(u) versus the infrastructure uplink user's 
locations as the ad hoc receiver MS2 is located at (50, -π/2), where r3 is the distance between the 
base station and the primary user MS3 
can see that the analytical results match the simulation results well. Second and more 
importantly, there exists an optimal concurrent transmission probability against the distance r3 
 43
IV. Reference 
[1] G.J. Foschini and M.J. Gans, “On Limits of Wireless Communications in a Fading 
Environment When Using Multiple Antennas,” Wireless Personal Commun., vol. 6, pp. 
311-335, March 1998. 
[2] S. Verdu, Multiuser Detection, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1998. 
[3] W.H. Mow, “Maximum Likelihood Sequence Estimation from the Lattice Viewpoint,” IEEE 
Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 40, pp.1591-1600, September 1994. 
[4] U. Fincke and M. Pohst, “Improved Methods for Calculating Vectors of Short Length in a 
Lattice, Including a Complexity Analysis,” Math. of Comput., vol. 44, pp. 463-471, April 
1985. 
[5] E. Agrell, T. Eriksson, A. Vardy and K Zeger, “Closest Point Search in Lattices,” IEEE Trans. 
Inform. Theory, vol. 48, pp. 2201-2214, August 2002. 
[6] G..D. Golden, G. J. Foschini, R. A. Valenzuela and P.W. Wolniansky, “Detection Algorithm 
and Initial Laboratory Results Using V-BLAST Space-time Communication Architecture,” 
IEE Elect. Lett., vol. 35, pp. 14-16, January 1999. 
[7] G.J. Foschini, G. D. Golden, R. A. Valenzuela and P.W. Wolniansky, “Simplified Processing 
for High Spectral Efficiency Wireless Communication Employing Multi-element Arrays,” 
IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 17, pp. 1841-1852, November 1999.  
[8] D. Wübben, R. Böhnke, J. Rinas, V. Kühn and K.D. Kammeyer, “Efficient Algorithm for 
Decoding Layered Space-time Codes,” IEE Elec. Lett., vol. 37, pp. 1348-1350, October 
2001. 
[9] R. Böhnke , D. Wübben, V. Kühn, and K.D. Kammeyer, “ Reduced Complexity MMSE 
Detection for BLAST Architecture,” in Proc. IEEE Globecom, pp. 2258-2262, December 
2003.  
[10] D.W. Waters and J.R. Barry, “The Chase Family of Detection Algorithms for Multiple-Input 
Multiple Output Channels,” IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, vol. 56, pp.739-747, February 
2008. 
[11] X. Wang, Z. He, K. Niu, W. Wu and X. Zhang, “An Improved Detection Based on Lattice 
Reduction in MIMO Systems,” in Proc. IEEE PIMRC, pp. 1-5, September 2006. 
[12] H. Yao and G. Wornell, “Lattice-Reduction-Aided Detectors for MIMO Communication 
Systems,” in Proc. IEEE Globecom, pp. 424-428, November 2002. 
[13] W. H. Mow, “Universal Lattice Decoding: Principle and Recent Advances,” Wireless 
Commun. Mobile Comput., vol. 3, pp. 553-569, August 2003. 
[14] I. Berengure and X. Wang, “MIMO Antenna Selection with Lattice-Reduction-Aided Linear 
Receivers,” IEEE Trans. Vehicular Technology, vol. 53, pp. 1289-1302, September 2004. 
[15] D. Wübben, R. Böhnke, V. Kühn and K. D. Kammeyer, “Near-Maximum-Likelihood 
Detection of MIMO Systems Using MMSE-based Lattice Reduction,” in Proc. IEEE ICC, 
 45
[32] Chun-Ting Chou, J. del Prado Pavon and N. Sai Shankar, "Mobility support enhancements 
for the WiMedia UWB MAC protocol," Broadband Networks, 2005 2nd International 
Conference on, pp. 136-142 Vol. 2, 2005. 
[33] H.C. Chuang, C.Y. Huang, and Tihao Chiang, “Content-Aware Adaptive Media Playout 
Controls for Wireless Video Streaming,” IEEE Transaction on Multimedia, vol. 9, no. 6, 
October 2007 
[34] Haitao Wu, Yuan Xia and Qian Zhang, "Delay analysis of DRP in MBOA UWB MAC," 
Communications, 2006. ICC '06. IEEE International Conference on, vol. 1, pp. 229-233, 
2006. 
[35] H. Yin, H. Liu, "Performance of space-division multiple-access (SDMA) with scheduling," 
IEEE Trans. on Wireless Com., Vol. 1, pp.611-618, Oct. 2002. 
[36] Dongkun Kim, Seonwoo Lee, Jinwoo Choe, Daehyoung Hong, Inseok Hwang,” Resource 
Management Scheme Reflecting Relative Utilities in Multi-channel Wireless Systems”, 
Communications, 2006 IEEE International Conference on Volume 10, June 2006 
Page(s):4434 - 4439 
[37] S. Sharma, A. R. Nix, and S. Olafsson, “Situation-aware wireless networks,” IEEE Commun. 
Mag., vol. 41, no. 7, pp. 44–50, Jul. 2003. 
[38] J. S. Lee and L. E. Miller, CDMA Systems Engineering Handbook. Norwood, MA: Artech 
House, 1998, pp. 1111–1186. 
[39] J. Laiho, A.Wacker, and T. Novosad, Eds., Radio Network Planning and Optimization for 
UMTS. New York: Wiley, 2002, pp. 280–290. 
[40] W. W. Lu, Broadband Wireless Mobile: 3G and Beyond. New York: Wiley, 2002, pp. 
307–315. 
[41] G. Hampel, K. L. Clarkson, J. D. Hobby, and P. A. Polakos, “The tradeoff between coverage 
and capacity in dynamic optimization of 3G cellular networks,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. 
Conf., Fall, Orlando, FL, Sep. 2003, pp. 927–932. 
[42] R. T. Love, K. A. Beshir, D. Schaeffer, and R. S. Nikides, “A pilot optimization technique 
for CDMA cellular systems,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., Fall, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands, Sep. 1999, pp. 2238–2242. 
[43] K. Valkealahti, A. Hoglund, J. Parkkinen, and A. Flanagan, “CDMA common pilot power 
control with cost function minimization,” in Proc.IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., Fall, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada, Sep. 2002, pp.2244–2247. 
[44] D. Kim, Y. Chang, and J. W. Lee, “Pilot power control and service coverage support in 
CDMA mobile systems,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., Spring, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands, May 1999, pp. 1464–1468. 
[45] A. D. Smith, “Designing for coverage availability with different data rates—An improved 
methodology,” in Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., Fall, Vancouver, BC, Canada, Sep. 2002, 
pp. 1821–1824. 
 47
scheduling,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 1, pp. 611–618, Oct. 2002. 
[61] C. Y. Wong, R. S. Cheng, K. B. Letaief, and R. D. Murch, “Multiuser OFDM with adaptive 
subcarrier, bit, and power allocation,” IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun., vol. 17, pp. 
1747–1758, Oct. 1999. 
[62] Y. M. Tsang and R. S. Cheng, “Optimal resource allocation in SDMA / 
muilti-input-single-output / OFDM systems under QoS and power constraints,” in Proc. 
IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC-2004), vol. 3, Mar. 
2004, pp. 1595 – 1600. 
[63] F. Caper, I. Martoyo, T. Weiss, and F. Jondral, “Comparison of Bandwidth Utilization for 
Controlled and Uncontrolled Channel Assignment in a Spectrum Pooling System," IEEE 
VTC, 2002. 
[64] X. Zhu, L. Shen, and T.-S. P. Yum, “Analysis of Cognitive Radio Spectrum Access with 
Optimal Channel Reservation," IEEE Communications Letter, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 304-306, 
April 2007. 
[65] M. M. Rashid, M. J. Hossain, E. Hossain, and V. K. Bhargava, “Opportunistic Spectrum 
Access in Cognitive Radio Networks: A Queueing Analytic Model and Admission Controller 
Design," Proceedings of IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference, November 2007. 
[66] S. Tang and B. L. Mark, “An Analytical Performance Model of Opportunistic Spectrum 
Access in a Military Environment," IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking 
Conference, April 2008. 
[67] P. Bahl, R. Chandra, and J. Dunagan, “SSCH: Slotted Seeded Channel Hopping for Capacity 
Improvement in IEEE 802.11 Ad Hoc Wireless Networks," The ACM Annual International 
Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, pp. 216-230, Sept 2004. 
[68] J. N. M and I. T. L., “Spread Spectrum Medium Access Control with Collision Avoidance 
Protocol for Multichannel Network," Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM , pp. 776-783, 
1999. 
[69] Z. Tang and J. J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves, “Hop-Reservation Multiple Access (HRMA) for Ad 
Hoc Networks," Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM , pp. 194-201, Mar 1999. 
[70] J. So and N. Vaidya, “Multi-Channel MAC for Ad Hoc Networks: Handling Multi-Channel 
Hidden Terminals Using A Single Transceiver," In Proceedings of MobiHoc '04, pp. 222-233, 
May 2004. 
[71] P. Tan and M. C. Chan, “AMCM: Adaptive Multi-Channel MAC Protocol for IEEE 802.11 
Wireless Networks," Third International Conference on Broadband Communications, 
Networks, and Systems, Oct 2006. 
[72] J. H. Chen and Y. D. Chen, “AMNP: Ad Hoc Multichannel Negotiation Protocol for 
Multihop Mobile Wireless Networks," IEEE International Conference on Communications, 
pp. 3607-3612, Jun 2004. 
[73] J. Chen, S. T. Sheu, and C. A. Yang, “A New Multi-Channel Access Protocol for IEEE 
 49
[87] Y. D. Lin and Y. C. Hsu, “Multihop cellular: a new architecture for wireless 
communications,” INFOCOM, IEEE International Conference on Computer 
Communications, vol. 3, pp. 26–30, Mar. 2000. 
[88] J. Chen, S.-H. G. Chan, J. He, and S. C. Liew, “Mixed-mode WLAN: the integration of 
ad-hoc mode with wireless LAN infrastructure,” IEEE Global Telecommunications 
Conference, vol. 1, pp. 231–235, Dec. 2003. 
 51
power allocation, and beamforming. The ARRA algorithm takes throughput maximization as its 
objective when there are no urgent users. As a result, the ARRA algorithm can achieve a higher 
system throughput under the fulfillment of users’ QoS requirements. 
 53
Electrical Engineering, February 2007, pp. 1-10. 
[J10] C. Y. Huang, H. H. Yuan, M. S. Lin and C. J. Chang, “Radio Resource Management of 
Heterogeneous Services in Mobile WiMAX Systems,” IEEE Wireless Communications, 
Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 20-26, February 2007. 
[J11] Y. H. Chen and C. J. Chang, “A Fast Handoff Protocol for Cellular IEEE 802.11e WLAN 
Systems,” IEEE Communications Letters, Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 140-142, Feb. 2007. 
[J12] C. Y. Liao, F. Yu, V. Leung, and C. J. Chang, “A Novel Dynamic Cell Configuration 
Scheme in Next-Generation Situation-Aware CDMA Networks,” IEEE J. Selected Areas in 
Communications, Vol.24, No. 1, pp. 16-25, Jan. 2006 
[J13] Chih-Cheng Kuo, Wern-Ho Sheen, Chung-Ju Chang, and Chang Lung Hsiao, “MMSE 
Channel Factorization for Near Maximum-Likelihood Detection of MIMO Signals,” IEEE 
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, submitted, August 2008. 
[J14] Li-Chun Wang and Anderson Chen, “Effects of Location Awareness on Concurrent 
Transmissions for Cognitive Ad Hoc Networks Overlaying Infrastructure-Based Systems,” 
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, to appear. 
[J15] Li-Chun Wang, Chung-Wei Wang, and Chuan-Ming Liu, “Optimal Number of Clusters in 
Dense Wireless Sensor Networks: A Cross-layer Approach,” IEEE Transactions on 
Vehicular Technology, to appear. 
[J16] Yung-Han Chen, Chung-Ju Chang, and Ching Yao Huang, “Fuzzy Q-learning admission 
control for WCDMA/WLAN heterogeneous networks” IEEE Transactions on Mobile 
Computing, submitted, February 2008. 
[J17] Scott Shen, Chung-Ju Chang, and Li-Chun Wang, “A Cellular Neural Network and 
Utility-based Scheduler for Multimedia CDMA Cellular Networks” IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, submitted, Nov. 2007. 
Patents (all have been adopted in the IEEE 802.16j specification) 
[P1] Shiang-Jiun Lin, I-Kang Fu, Cheng-Kang Pai, and Wern-Ho Sheen, Scheduling Method for 
Wireless Multihop Relay Communication System Thereof, US patent, pending, 2008. 
[P2] I-Kang Fu and Wern Ho Sheen, Methods for Interference Measurement and Prediction, US 
patent, pending, 2007. 
