 2
目  錄 
 
(一).目錄                2 
(二).報告內容              3 
(三).參考文獻              9 
(四).計畫成果自評             10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
enable chip placement over the embedded capacitors is recommended. 
In multi-layer substrates, the structure of the embedded capacitor is not fixed, so various 
form factors could be designed.  Due to the electromagnetic interactions that lead to non-ideal 
high-frequency behavior, accurate models of embedded capacitors are desired in designing RF 
circuit [6].  To improve the frequency response of embedded capacitor, a structured approach 
using FDTD method [7] isutilizeded 
 
II. DESIGN AND MODELING 
Parasitics associated with the component and interconnection, which affect the frequency 
behavior of the embedded element, is a fundamental problem in designing embedded passive 
component.  To illustrate the effects of varying form factor on the performance of capacitor, 
1-port MIM (metal-insulator-metal) capacitors on a single layer ceramic substrate, having 
dielectric constant 9.8 and thickness 15 mils, with different form factors were investigated.  The 
capacitors are designed with different W/L ratio on one side of the substrate, using standard thick 
film alumina process, and the other side is fully metalized to form the ground plane as shown in 
Fig. 1. 
A 50-ohm impedance line is used, in general, to connect the components in a RF/Microwave 
circuit.  Referring to the schematics shown in Fig. 1, a 50-ohm input line with width W0 used to 
connect the capacitor causes a change in width between the input line and the capacitor.  Such 
connection introduces an electromagnetic discontinuity and, thus, the discontinuity results from 
the 50-ohm input line needs to be identified in the capacitor characterization.  The symmetrical 
type of step discontinuity has been treated in [8] and the equivalent circuit is given in the 
condition with W/W0 ≤ 10.  For capacitor with larger width, W/W0 > 10, T-junction discontinuity 
may need be considered.  Thus, equivalent circuit models of step and T-junction discontinuities 
developed in [8] were both utilized.  
The equivalent circuit approach developed by [9], [10] is then employed to compute: (1) the 
per-unit-length inductance and capacitance, the characteristic impedance and the propagation 
constant of the two lines forming the step discontinuity, and (2) the frequency-dependent S11 and 
S21 (with line with width W0 serving as the input line).  Multiplying the per-unit-length 
inductance and capacitance of the line with width W by capacitor’s length L, the values of the 
lumped inductor and capacitor (L// and C//) that represent the behavior of the capacitor body alone 
are obtained.   
 
A. Modeling of Capacitor Body 
The structure of an MIM capacitor is constructed from a section of low impedance 
microstrip transmission line of width W and length L.  This transmission line model [11], 
consists of distributed parameters, can be used to derive the equivalent lumped circuit model of 
capacitor alone.  From the ideal parallel-plate approximation of MIM capacitor, we know that 
the per-unit-length capacitance of the capacitor is directly proportional to its width while the 
per-unit-length inductance is inversely proportional to the width.  For a given substrate material, 
changing the capacitor’s width W and length L, while keeping capacitor’s surface area W×L fixed, 
 6
List of Figures 
 
Fig. 1. Structure of MIM capacitor. 
Fig. 2. Current density distribution on the upper capacitor plate.  (a) W=80 mil.  (b)  W=160 
mil. 
Fig. 3. Photograph of the fabricated samples. 
Fig. 4. Comparison of simulated SRF. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 
 
 
 
 
 
W
L
input line ground substrate 
W0 
h
 8
 
Fig. 3 
 
 
Fig. 4 
 
 
0 1 2 3 4
W/L ratio
4
8
12
16
20
24
S
R
F 
(G
H
z)
without discontinuity effects
with discontinuity effects
 10
[17] J. Dougherty et al., “The NEMI roadmap: Integrated passives technology and economics,” 
in Proc. 2003 CARTS Conference, Scottsdale, AZ, Mar. 31, 2003. 
[18] R. Ulrich, “Embedded Resistors and Capacitors for Organic-Based SOP,” IEEE Trans. 
Advanced Packaging, vol. 27, no. 2, May 2004. 
 
(四).計畫成果自評 
本研究計畫依原計畫所提出之應用電磁模擬分析之方法，在三維電路中進行多層式內
埋電容之電磁分析設計，應用不同電極片之長寬比(Form factor) 設計出一具有低寄生電感
效應及高自振頻率之內藏式電容，此一結果整理完成後將投稿至期刊發表。另外應用單層
介質上多個半圈的電感結構，將原本的半圈或四分之三圈的繞線增加至一圈以上以縮小電
感體積及提高電感值，此一新型電路架構正進行專利申請，並洽談廠商進行技術移轉中。  
 
  
 
