routing protocols can be significantly improved through appropriate extension of its protocol 
operation to handle vehicular context information. 
To proceed, we consider a Manhattan grid topology and setup the simulation environment 
using a microscopic traffic simulator [7] and a packet-level network simulator [8]. The grid 
topology covers an area of 2km x 2km as shown in Figure 1. One building located at (800, 
1000) of the topology acts as the gateway node, and individual vehicles generate requests to 
download (or upload) data (e.g. multimedia clips) from the gateway node. The ad hoc 
on-demand distance vector (AODV) routing protocol [9] is used as the routing protocol for 
data delivery between the source and destination nodes. 
 
Figure 1: Manhattan Grid Topology 
We conduct simulations for a network of 300 vehicles with random driving plans. We vary 
the number of lanes and the number of concurrent data flows for different simulation runs. 
Simulation results show that AODV does not perform well in the target environment with low 
packet delivery ratio. To understand the reasons that cause packet drops, we classify dropped 
packets into 4 types as shown in Figure 2. It can be observed from the figure that while node 
mobility accounts for about 60% of packet drops due to poor route selection, a substantial 
portion of packet drops is due to congestion of the wireless channel. In particular, about 20% 
of packets are dropped at the source before their initial routes are constructed due to repeated 
collisions of the route request packets with periodic HELLO packets. 
The routing process of AODV thus can be augmented with the lifetime prediction model in 
the following three phases: 
1. Route Discovery Phase—Prioritized RREQ Forwarding: When a node receives the route 
request (RREQ) packet, it uses the information contained in the packet to calculate the 
expected lifetime of the concerned link. The node then defers rebroadcasting of the 
RREQ packet for an amount of time inversely proportional to the link lifetime. This 
mechanism prioritizes link with longer lifetime and avoids repeated collisions during 
RREQ rebroadcasting. (As nodes turn or slow down, the expected link lifetime is 
recalculated as mentioned later.) 
2. Route Maintenance Phase—Opportunistic Broadcast of HELLO Packets: Unlike in 
AODV where the HELLO packet is broadcast periodically, in the proposed mechanism 
the HELLO packet is transmitted adaptively depending on the degree of change in vehicle 
direction and speed. A change in the direction after crossing an intersection thus can be 
captured by the HELLO packet. This mechanism reduces the control overheads for 
sending HELLO packets. 
3. Route Recovery Phase—Proactive Route Probing: Whenever a node receives the HELLO 
packet from its neighbors, it recalculates the expected link lifetime using the updated 
location, speed, and direction of movement. If it is found that the link is to fail within a 
threshold amount of time, the node proactively issues a route error (RERR) packet to 
initiate a new route. This mechanism minimizes the number of packet drops due to route 
failures. 
We implement the proposed mechanisms in AODV and compare its performance against 
vanilla AODV. Figure 4 shows the performance improvement of the proposed routing 
protocol in the grid topology. 
  
Figure 4: Performance of the Proposed Routing Protocol (AODV with Lifetime Mechanism) 
desired density of vehicles is then used as the input to the traffic simulator to generate vehicle 
traffic flows. The gateway node where each node communicates with for Internet access is 
located at (1680, 920) as shown in the figure.  
 
Figure 6: City Topology 
Figure 7 compares the performance of the proposed routing protocol with vanilla AODV in 
terms of packet delivery ratio and end-to-end latency when the transmission range of 
individual nodes is varied from 200m to 700m. It can be observed from Figure 7 that for all 
transmission ranges, the proposed routing protocol performs much better than vanilla AODV 
owing to the link lifetime prediction model and the three mechanisms that we introduce for 
optimizing the routing protocol to vehicular ad hoc networks: prioritized RREQ forwarding 
in consideration of the link lifetime, opportunistic broadcast of HELLO packets in 
consideration of the node mobility, and proactive route probing in consideration of the 
dynamic topology changes in the vehicular ad hoc network environment. 
 
Figure 7: Performance in the City Topology 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-002-090- 
計畫名稱 結合感測網路及無線接取網路之車用行動隨意網路技術與系統研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
國立台灣大學電信所 謝宏昀助理教授 
會議時間地點 September 26, 2006 – September 28, 2006 in Los Angeles, CA, USA 
會議名稱 ACM International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking(MobiCom) 
發表論文題目 N/A 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The ACM International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking (MobiCom) is one 
of the most prestigious conferences in the mobile computing and wireless networking research 
community. Many significant research breakthroughs in wireless networking have been 
published in this conference. This year, MobiCom accepts 35 papers with an acceptance rate of 
11.7%, but as usual it still attracts a lot of attendees from academia and industry all over the 
world to Marina del Rey in California, USA. 
The MobiCom main conference (excluding tutorials and workshops) is single track that 
schedules the technical program in three days. The first day includes a keynote speech from Dr. 
Andrew Viterbi on “Mobile Broadband Evolution: From Controversy to Convergence,” an 
Athena Award lecture from Prof. Deborah Estrin on “Wireless Sensing Systems: From 
Ecosystems to Human Systems,” two technical paper sessions on “Mesh Networks” and 
“Measurements” respectively, and the student poster and demo session. The second day 
includes four technical paper sessions on “Sensor Networks I,” “Wireless LANs,” “Cellular 
Networks,” and “Wireless Fundamentals” respectively, and one student poster competition 
session. The last day of the conference includes three technical paper sessions on “Sensor 
Networks II,” “New Topics,” and “Ad Hoc Networks” respectively, and one panel on “Wired 
vs. Wireless Access: The Race to Higher Speeds” organized by M. Sentinelli from Telecom 
Italia and several panelists from Ericsson, Cisco, Verizon, Qualcomm, Cingular, and Sprint.  
While the schedule is quite tight to pack 35 papers in 9 technical sessions, the audience 
participated actively in the conference throughout the entire three days. Many presentations 
have elicited very enthusiastic discussions during and after the talk. The poster/demo session 
and panel in particular have attracted the attention of many participants. I have also acquainted 
myself with several distinguished fellow researchers during the breaks and the conference 
banquet, and discussed the possibility of research collaboration in the future. 
