 I 
 
摘要 
中文摘要 
本研究使用分子動力學方法模擬於超薄銅基板上進行奈米壓印及奈米刮痕，奈米碳管及奈
米碳錐在壓印的影響上具有高深寬比，在奈米尺度下的壓印，熱傳過程以及伴隨的應力是需要
被高度重視和詳細的研究，並可知奈米碳錐比起奈米碳管可能造成更好的深寬比。研究中選擇
(110)的銅基板，使用的是雙層奈米碳錐來進行刮痕，可發現雙層奈米碳錐的加工能力比單層
奈米碳錐及奈米碳管都還要好，此外在製造技術上，重複性的刮痕可獲得高深寬比之溝槽。 
 
關鍵字：奈米壓印、奈米刮痕、分子動力學模擬、奈米碳管、奈米碳錐 
 
 
 
Abstract 
In this study, the indention and scratch behavior on a copper ultra thin film is investigated using 
the molecular dynamics(MD) simulation method. It has been shown that nanotubes and nanocones 
are most effective to make indents with large aspect ratios. Detailed studies in the heat transfer 
processes under the nano-scale indentation, and the accompanying stress distributions are required 
much attention. It is found that nano-cones may make indents with larger aspect ratios than the 
nanotubes due to the local shell buckling. The copper (110) substrate was chosen, and the scratching 
tip was a double-walled nano-cone. It is found that the double-walled nano-cones are more workable 
than single-walled nano-cones and carbon nanotubes. Moreover, repeated scratches show high 
aspect-ratio trenches could be obtained by the manufacturing technique. 
 
Keywords: Nanoidentation、Nanoscratch、molecular dynamics simulation、nanotube、nanocone 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
二、報告內容 
2-1、前言 
Nano-scale indentation of solid surface has received an increasing attention due to its 
investigation can provide the knowledge of surface contact nanomechanics required in the 
advancement and application of nanotechnologies such as nanoimprint lithography [1,2] and 
high-density data storage technology [3-7]. In particular, since Smalley and co-workers[8] proposed 
the utilization of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) as proximal probe tips in the scanning probe microscopy 
(SPM), using CNTs as the indenters to improve the spatial resolution in nanoindentation experiments 
has become popular due to their high aspect ratios, small tip radii of curvature and high stiffness 
[9-14]. In this study, the copper (110) substrate was chosen, and the scratching tip was a 
double-walled nano-cone. It is found that the double-walled nano-cones are more workable than 
single-walled nano-cones and carbon nanotubes. Time-domain heat transfer and stress analysis was 
carried out by using a control-volume technique with an atomic spatial resolution, except near the 
boundaries. It is found the temperature rises locally near the scratch tip, and trailing thermal waves 
were more prominent than the leading thermal waves. For the case of the scratching temperature at 
700 K, the highest temperature during the scratch was found to be about 850 K. 
 
2-2、研究目的  
 Molecular dynamics (MD) simulation has become one of the most important and efficient 
methods in modeling physical processes at the nano-scales. To study the thermal and mechanical 
properties of solid in small volume, the choice of statistical ensembles is essential for a correct 
analysis . An example of previous studies in stress-strain analysis via MD simulation in thin film can 
be found in[15]. Indentation with atomic simulation can be found in[16]. Molecular dynamics (MD) 
simulation was adopted to analyze the system of this sort with the constant number of atoms, volume 
and temperature (NVT) ensemble[17]. Nanoscratching is a practical engineering problem in 
nanotechnological developments[18]. Continuum and atomic approaches in heat transfer analysis are 
summarized in[19]. Stress analysis in MD studies has long been performed, an example can be found 
in[20]. A study on strong impulse laser induced thermoelastic waves has been reported in[21]. 
Time-domain heat transfer and stress analysis was carried out by using a control-volume technique 
with an atomic spatial resolution, except near the boundaries. The effect of temperatures and stresses 
on the changes of the microstructures of the substrate will be discussed.  
 
2-3、文獻探討 
Harrison et al [22] is the first one investated the behavior of capped carbon nanotube as an 
 3 
 
 
   (2) 
 
Where  and  are binding and repulsive pair potential respectively. The carbon-copper 
bonding occurring between the nanocone and the substrate was simulated by Morse type pair 
potential [29], given as 
 
   (3) 
 
Φ(rij) is a pair potential energy function, D, α and r0 correspond to the cohesion energy, the 
elastic modulus and the atomistic distance at equilibrium, respectively. 
 
 
2-5、結果與討論 
 Figure 1 shows the MD model of Cu (110) single crystal being indented with a carbon nanocone. 
The size of the Cu is 12 x 12 x 12 nm
3
. Two simulation temperatures were used: 300 and 400 K. The 
MD model for the case of a carbon nanotube indenter tip is similar to Figure 1, and hence not shown. 
Figure 3 and Figure 4 show the von-Mises stress distribution under the nanocone and nanotube tip, 
respectively. For nanocones, Figure 3 (a) and (b) depict the stress distribution under and after indent, 
respectively, at 300 K. Figure 3 (c) and (d) are the stress distribution under and after indent, 
respectively, for the 400 K case. For nanotubes, Figure4 (a) and (b) show stress distribution under 
and after indent at 300 K, respectively. Figure4 (c) and (d) represent the stress distribution under and 
after indent at 400 K. From these stress distributions, it can be seen that some residual stresses are 
present after the indentation. Residual stresses are self equilibrated. Higher temperature causes 
change in stress magnitude and distributions. Although the MD models are initial perfect crystals, At 
different temperatures, defects may form differently by indentation, causing change of stress 
distribution. Figure 5 shows the temperature variation with respect to time at different locations 
under indent with the carbon nanotube tip. The temperatures were calculated by averaging the 
thermal motion among atoms in the locations. The nanotube atoms are not considered in temperature 
calculations. As can be seen, the atoms away from the indenter, the temperatures are slightly affected, 
as at locations P4 and P5. At other locations, the two temperature peaks are observed due to the 
nanotube moving into and out of the substrate. The atoms near the top surface of the substrate show 
greatest temperature variations, in consistent with physical rationale that the atoms at location P1 are 
being disturbed most in the indentation process. The highest temperature was about 380 K. Figures 6 
and 7 show the temperature and von-Mises stress as functions of time at 600 K. It can be seen that 
the maximum machining temperature rises to about 700 K. The maximum von-Mises stresses may 
reach 6 GPa during the processes. Although the yield stresses in bulk copper are much less than the 
 5 
 
[21] J. R. Ho, C. J. Twu, C. C. Hwang, 2001, Physical Review B. 64,1-10 
[22] J. A. Harrison, S. J. Stuart, D. H. Robertson, and C. T.White 1997 J. Phys. Chem. B 101 9682. 
[23] J. Y. Hsieh, J. M. Lu, M. Y. Huang, and C.C. Hwang 2006 Nanotechnology 17 3920. 
[24] A. Garg, J. Han, and S. B. Sinnott 1998 Phys. Rev. Lett. 81 2260. 
[25] A. Garg and S. B. Sinnott 1999 Phys. Rev. B 60 13786. 
[26] F. N. Dzegilenko, D. Srivastava, and S. Saini 1999 Nanotechnology 10 253. 
[27] Brenner D.W. 1990 ,Physical Review B 42 9458. 
[28] Cleri F. and Rosato V.1993, Review B 48 1. 
[29] Maekawa K. and Itoh A.1995,Wear 188 115. 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
Nanocone and nanotube are potential candidates for nanoscale machining. It is found that 
temperature increases are not significant during the indentation process. However, due to large stress 
being generated from indentation, the microstructures of the substrate may change significantly. 
Defects, such as dislocations and stacking faults, may redistribute the stress. Correlations between 
atomic temperature and stress may lead to the determination of nano-scale thermoelastic properties 
of the system. Through the nano-scratch MD simulations, the maximum temperature and effective 
stresses are calculated. For the studied cases, 600 K and 700K, the temperature and stress are roughly 
the same. Defects in the two systems may form due to stress and temperature effects. 
 
五、附圖 
 
Figure 1.  MD model of the Cu (110) single crystal, size of 12 x 12 x 12 nm
3
. Indentation depth is 4 
nm. The label, free layer, indicates the layers of atoms are no subject any constraints. “Thermal 
layer” indicates the thermal control layer to maintain the system temperature, and “Fixed layer” the 
 7 
 
(c) (d) 
Figure 3. Indented with a carbon nanotube, the von-Mises effective stresses at 300 K are shown in (a) 
and (b) for the 55  and 160 ps, respectively. (c) and (d) are for the 400 K case at the same time snap 
shot. 
 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
Figure 4.  Indented with a carbon nanotube, the von-Mises effective stresses at 300 K are shown in 
(a) and (b) for the 55  and 160 ps, respectively. (c) and (d) are for the 400 K case at the same time 
 9 
 
 
Figure 7. von-Mises stress at selected locations vs. time at 600 K. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Temperature variations at selected locations vs. time at 700 K. 
