 1
中文摘要 
此兩年期之研究計畫乃針對散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝熱控作一系列之散熱性能
實驗探討與相關多媒體電腦輔助最佳化設計研發。此計畫研究有下列三大主題；(1)散熱
座與熱電致冷器組合構裝強制對流研究，(2)散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝散熱最佳化設
計，及(3)散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝之電腦輔助最佳化設計系統開發。在實驗方面，
建立風洞渠道強制對流實驗裝置及提出有效之實驗量測方法，來探討散熱座與熱電致冷
器組合構裝之散熱特性；在多媒體電腦輔助設計系統研發方面，開發完成相關之前置處
理器、使用者介面、熱分析器、最佳化分析器、後置處理器、散熱座、熱擴散介質材質
及熱電致冷器資料庫。在此兩年期研究計畫完成後可獲得下列之成果：(一)、完成散熱座
與熱電致冷器組合構裝之整合；建立電子構裝熱控實驗系統與量測技術，具備從事各種
冷卻技術之研發能力。(二)、發展完成一套相當友善之多媒體電腦輔助設計軟體(包括前
置處理器、使用者介面、熱分析器、最佳化分析器、後置處理器、實驗設計、電子構裝
材質、散熱座、熱擴散介質材質及熱電致冷器資料庫)，具備從事各種電子構裝熱控裝置
最佳化之設計能力。 
 
關鍵字：散熱座，熱擴散介質，熱電致冷器，電腦輔助設計，前置處理器，使用者介面，
熱分析器，最佳化分析器，後置處理器，實驗設計。 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
A two-stage (two years) research project on the cooling performance investigation for 
thermal control of electronic packages on heat sink/spreader integrated with thermoelectric 
cooler (TEC) and the development of multi-media optimal thermal computer-aided design 
(CAD) has been performed.  The research content includes the following essential topics: (1) 
Forced convective heat transfer for heat sink/spreader integrated without or with 
thermoelectric coolers; (2) Thermal optimal design for heat sink/spreader integrated without 
or with thermoelectric coolers; and (3) Development of multimedia thermal optimal CAD 
System for heat sink/spreader integrated with thermoelectric coolers.  In the experimental 
aspect, a wind-tunnel thermal testing method for measuring temperature rises and thermal 
performance for electronic packages on a heat sink/spreader integrated without or with 
thermoelectric cooler has been successfully established.  Thermal and fluid flow behaviors 
for macro/micro heat sink/TEC assembly have also been investigated.  In the aspect of CAD 
system development, the developed multimedia optimal thermal CAD system is composed of 
the pre-processor, user interface, thermal analyzer, optimizer, post-processor, and data bases 
for the material properties of heat sinks/TECs.  The following technical capabilities through 
this projects have been established: (A) A multi-media optimal thermal CAD software system 
(including the pre-processor, analyzer, optimizer, post-processor, and databases) for electronic 
packages on heat sink/spreader integrated with TECs. (B) Laboratory of multimedia optimal 
thermal CAD and performance testing for heat sink/spreader/TEC assembly mounted on 
electronic packages. 
 
Keywords：Heat Sink, Heat Spreader, Thermoelectric Cooler, Computer-Aided Design, 
Pre-Processor, User-Interface Software, Thermal Analyzer, Optimizer, Post-Processor, Design 
of Experiments. 
 
 
 3
1.  RESEARCH TASKS PROPOSED TO BE FULFILLED IN THE 
SECOND-YEAR STUDY 
 
Second Year (08/01/2006-07/31/2007) 
(A) Forced Convective Heat Transfer for Heat Sink Integrated without or with Thermoelectric 
Coolers: 
(a) To design and manufacture different types of heat sinks and TECs for the study of heat 
transfer characteristics without or with thermoelectric coolers; 
(b) To establish the experimental system to perform the studies related to the heat transfer 
characteristics for heat sink without or with TECs; 
(c) To postulate a stringent experimental procedure for performing the experiments of 
fluid flow and heat transfer for chips on heat sink integrated with TECs; 
(d) To Design and Manufacture the simulated chips on heat sink integrated with TECs; 
(e) To Calibrate All Relevant Instruments; 
(f) To explore heat transfer characteristics of heat sink without or with TECs; 
(g) To compare the results between heat sinks without or with TECs; 
(h) To perform the sensitivity analysis of relevant parameters for heat sink without or with 
TECs; and 
(i) To propose new correlations of local and average heat transfer characteristics for heat 
sink without or with TECs. 
 
(B) Thermal Optimal Design for Heat Sink Integrated without or with Thermoelectric Coolers: 
(a) To establish the DOE for heat sink integrated with TECs.  
(b) To explore the thermal performance analysis of thermoelectric cooler.  The cooling 
capacity, Qm, is determined by chip temperature and other parameter of thermoelectric 
cooler.. 
(c) To perform the response surface methodology for micro heat sink integrated with 
TECs and to determine the response surface for Qm and COP;  
(d) To explore the parameters of thermoelectric cooler and relevant experimental 
parameters, and to apply SQP method to display the optimal design of the heat sink 
integrated with or without TECs . 
 
(C) Development of Multimedia Thermal Optimal CAD System for Heat Sink Integrated with 
Thermoelectric Coolers: 
(a) To compare the theoretical results calculated by the developed thermal analyzer with 
the experimental data for the thermal performance analysis of heat sink integrated 
with TECs; 
(b) To develop an interactive pre-processing interface with user-friendly multimedia tools 
to generate the required data for thermal analyzer; 
(c) To display the predicted results from thermal analyzer with a 3-D image; 
(d) To develop an interactive interface for providing a direct communication between the 
user and the computer;  
(e) To develop an optimizer for performing the optimal design; 
(f) To establish the Pre-/post-processor subsystems for the thermal performance analysis 
of heat sink integrated with TECs; 
(g) To Integrate Pre-Processor, Thermal Analyzer, Optimizer and Post-Processor into a 
Multi-Functional CAD System for chips on heat sink integrated with TECs; 
 5
transient-/steady-state local and average Nusselt numbers and external thermal resistances will 
then be discussed.  By the statistical sensitivity analysis of ANOVA F-test, the insignificant 
parameters will be screened out and a series of RSM models for evaluating heat transfer 
characteristics could be established.  A Sequential Quadratic Programming is employed to 
efficiently seek a globally optimal thermal performance under some constraints. 
 
3. THE EXPERIMENTS 
 
Experimental Facilities 
The present experimental facilities, shown in Fig. 1, are composed of four major parts, i.e., 
(1) air supply facilities, (2) pressure load unit, (3) test section and types of test assembly, (4) 
apparatus and instrumentation. The test section which is composed of an adjustable channel 
height and the test block is designed to investigate the effects of flow bypass.  The test 
assembly shown in Fig. 2 has two types: heat sinks and the HS/TES assembly.  The heat sinks 
are made of aluminum alloy 6063 material.  The HS/TEC assembly is composed of heat sink 
and TEC.  The apparatus and instrumentation include T-type thermocouple, precisely digital 
multi-meter, a set of precise heat flux meter, and a real-time infrared (IR) thermometer to 
measure temperature, power input, heat flux, and emissivity. 
 
Data Reduction 
For exploring heat transfer characteristics, i.e. local and average heat transfer coefficients 
and thermal resistances, on a heat sink and HS/TEC assembly, a further data reduction is 
needed to transfer temperatures to heat transfer information. 
(I) Heat sinks: The total heat flux into heat sink base, qt, which is measured by heat flux 
meter, is converted into the following three heat transfer modes at any specific transient time: 
(1) radiactive heat loss, qr, which is evaluated with thermal diffuse gray-body networks for 
U-channel heat sinks proposed by Ellison [14]; (2) internal energy change in the control 
volume of test assembly, qi; and (3) convective heat dissipated from the test surface, qcv.  The 
transient average Nusselt numbers is similar to transient local Nusselt number, but with 
difference that all parameters are based on the base surface of heat sink.  They can be 
expressed as: 
 
i-q-qqq rtcv =            (1) 
 
iq-q-qq rtcv =                              (2) 
 
bbb
cv A
-
AA
q i
b
rtcv Q
A
Q-QQ ==                      (3) 
 
where Ab is the area on the basis of the whole heat sink base area, Qr is the radiative heat loss 
from the heat sink surface to its surroundings, Qi is the internal-energy change of the test 
assembly, Qt is the total heat flow into heat sink base, which equals qtAb.  Usually, the 
steady-state condition is considered to be achieved when qi approaches zero; the qr reaches its 
steady-state values; and the qcv variation with time is less than 1 %.  In general, the 
steady-state conditions can be achieved about 10 minutes after the power is turned on.  The 
transient local and average heat transfer coefficient and Nusselt numbers and steady-state local 
and average external thermal resistance on the test surface can be respectively defined as 
 7
 
 
 
70Unit : mm
Bakelite
Heat Flux Meter
Stainless Steel 
Sheet
70
0.3
0.8
Heater
Heat Sink
TEC 4
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Test Assemblies of HS/TEC 
 
 
(II) HS/TEC assemblies: The steady-state local and average overall thermal resistances of 
HS/TEC assemblies are evaluated by step similar to that of heat sinks, with difference that the 
heat flux meter is inserting between TEC and heat sink base for directly measuring the heat 
dissipation from heat sink, and can be defined as follows: 
 
c
ac
th Q
TTR -=                                (9) 
c
ac
th
Q
TTR -=                                  (10) 
where Qc is the heat pumping capacity at cold side, which equals total heat flow into test 
assembly in steady-state.  Tc denotes the cold side temperature of TEC. 
 
Test Matrix 
An effective method so-called “design of experiments (DOE)” is employed to perform 
experimental investigations in the present study.  DOE is a systematic statistical approach to 
explore the relationships between design variables and thermal performance accomplished with 
the minimal number of experimental runs.  The parameters of these two cases are listed in 
Table 1.  By employing the method of design of experiments (DOE), the total experiments 
were effectively reducing to 17 cases and 27 cases, respectively. 
 9
Table 1 Range of Experimental Parameters 
 
(a) Heat Sinks 
 
Parameter Parametric Ranges
Wc(mm) 82
Qt,s (W) 10, 20, 30, 40, 50
         (W/m2) 2069, 4144, 5989, 7965, 9946
Hs/Hc 0.43, 0.5, 0.62, 0.76, 1
ReD 6600, 11000, 16000, 19000, 27000
Ui (m/s) 2, 3.5, 5, 6.5, 8
scv,q
 
  
(b) HS/TEC Assemblies 
  
Parameter Parametric Ranges
Wc(mm) 82
Qc,s (W) 10, 20, 30, 40, 50
I (A) 2, 4, 6, 8, 10
Hs/Hc 0.43, 0.5, 0.62, 0.76, 1
ReD 7300, 12000, 18000, 21000, 30000
Ui (m/s) 2, 3.5, 5, 6.5, 8  
 
 
4. PERFORMANCE TESTING OF THERMOELECTRIC COOLERS 
 
(A) Determination of Performance Parameters  
The basic operational characteristics of a TEC module include the temperature difference 
between hot side and cold side (ΔT), heat pumping capacity at the cold side (Qc), input current 
(I), and terminal voltage of TEC (V).  The equation defines the net heat pumping capacity is 
 
TKRIITαQ cc Δ-2/-=
2                      (13) 
 
The terminal voltage which equals to sum of the Seebeck voltages and resistive voltage 
drop is given by IRTαV +Δ= .  To get the maximum heat pumping capacity, the current which 
satisfies the condition dQc/dI=0 is I=Imax=αTc/R, and Qc becomes 
 
TK
R
Tα
Q Cc Δ-2
=
22
                          (14) 
 11
893.1+0367.0
-26.0-0367.0
=Δ
2
I
QITI
T ch
                 
(20)
 
 
The similar procedure is applied to the TEC module voltage: 
 
ITV 52.0+Δ0367.0=                        (21) 
   
The average deviations of these two correlations compared with the experimental data of 
are 6.6% and 3.9%, and the maximum deviations are 16.9% and 9.9%, respectively.  The 
maximum TEC current could be defined at two different operating conditions: ΔT=0 or Qc=0.  
In the former condition, Imax is 
 
hTI 0706.0=max                               (22) 
 
(B) Determination of Physical Properties 
The data on the physical properties α, R, K of TEC module are presented in a lot of 
literature [17,18].  The manufacturer of thermoelectric module usually does not provide this 
kind of data for their customers.  An alternative way to estimate these properties is employing 
the maximum performance parameters [19].  Using the value of reference hot side temperature 
(Th=27 oC provided by manufacturers), the Seebeck coefficient, electrical resistance and thermal 
conductance can be expressed as follows: 
 
hT
V
α max=                                    (23) 
 
)
Δ
-1(= max
max
max
hT
T
I
V
R                           (24) 
 
max
maxmaxmax
Δ2
)Δ-(
=
TT
TTIV
K
h
h
                      (25) 
 
The results are listed in Table 2 and categorized as vendor’s data and experimental data.  
 
Table 2 Summary of Physical Properties for TEC 
 
 Manufacturer 
Data 
Experimental 
Data 
Type Case 1 Case 2 
Imax (A) 30 18.1 
Qc,max (W) 266.7 114.3 
ΔTmax (oC) 68 44.7 
Vmax (V) 15.4 11 
α (V/K) 0.0513 0.0363 
R (Ω) 0.397 0.5 
K (W/K) 2.627 1.875 
 13
A and Hs/Hc=0.62 at x/Ws=0.5, y/Ls=0.5 with various Reynolds numbers.  The results reveal 
that the transient local Nusselt number increases with increasing Reynolds number.  The 
similar trend is also found for transient average Nusselt number. 
(IV) Effecst of input TEC current: The experimental results manifest that the input current 
of TEC has insignificant effect on the transient Nusselt number. 
 
Steady-state Heat Transfer Characteristics 
(I) Effects of steady-state heat load or pumping heat capacity: The experimental results 
reveal that the steady state local and average Nusselt numbers are almost independent of the 
steady-state average convective heat flux or pumping heat capacity.  In addition, the local and 
average external thermal resistances have the similar trend. 
(II) Effects of Hs/Hc ratio: Figure 5 shows the streamwise steady state distribution of local 
Nusselt numbers for heat sinks and HS/TEC assemblies on the heat sink with various Hs/Hc 
ratios.  The local Nusselt number is higher in upstream, and the results indicate that the steady 
state Nusselt numbers increase with increasing Hs/Hc ratio, because more air flow mass through 
the heat sink at the same inlet flow velocity.  Besides, according to the experimental data, the 
distribution of Nusselt number in the spanwise is symmetric.  The similar trend is also found 
for steady-state average Nusselt number.  Figure 6 exhibits the local and average external 
thermal resistance on the HS/TEC assembly with various Hs/Hc ratios, which shows the highest 
thermal performance also occurs at fully confined case. 
 (III) Effects of Reynolds number: Figure 7 reveals the streamwise steady-state 
distribution of local Nusselt numbers on the heat sink and HS/TEC assemblies with various 
Reynolds numbers, respectively.  The results reveal that the steady state Nusselt numbers 
increase with increasing Reynolds number.  The similar trend is also found for steady-state 
average Nusselt number, and the local and average external thermal resistances on the HS/TEC 
assembly which show in Fig. 8. 
(IV) Effects of input TEC current: The experimental results manifest that the input current 
of TEC has insignificant effect on steady-state Nusselt number.  The similar effect also 
exhibits on the local and average external thermal resistance of HS/TEC assemblies. 
To explore the relationship among steady state average Nusselt number, Hs/Hc and 
channel Reynolds number for heat sinks, a generalized correlation is proposed by using a least 
standard deviation method [9]: 
 
550
D
0.77
s Re)/(4710=Nu .cs HH.                    (28) 
 
The maximum deviation and average deviations from the experimental data are 7.0% and 
4.3%, respectively.  The relationship among xtR e , Hs/Hc ratio and Reynolds number are also 
explored, and a proposed correlation is: 
 
550-
D
0.77- Re)/)((0920=
/
.
cs
c
H
bac
ext HH
H
L
.
AkH
R
      
     (29)
 
 
The maximum deviation and average deviations from the experimental data are 7.6% and 
4.4%, respectively.  The comparisons between correlations and experimental data are shown 
in Figs. 9 and 10.  Two empirical correlations to predicted Nusselt number and xtR e , which are 
resulted from response surface method model and will be discussed in next section, have a 
satisfactory agreement.  They are also plotted in the Figs. 9 and 10. 
 
 15
To explore the relationship among steady state average Nusselt number, Hs/Hc and 
channel Reynolds number for heat sinks, a generalized correlation is proposed by using a least 
standard deviation method [9]: 
 
550
D
0.77
s Re)/(4710=Nu .cs HH.                    (28) 
 
The maximum deviation and average deviations from the experimental data are 7.0% and 
4.3%, respectively.  The relationship among xtR e , Hs/Hc ratio and Reynolds number are also 
explored, and a proposed correlation is: 
 
550-
D
0.77- Re)/)((0920=
/
.
cs
c
H
bac
ext HH
H
L
.
AkH
R
      
     (29)
 
 
The maximum deviation and average deviations from the experimental data are 7.6% and 
4.4%, respectively.  The comparisons between correlations and experimental data are shown 
in Figs. 9 and 10.  Two empirical correlations to predicted Nusselt number and xtR e , which are 
resulted from response surface method model and will be discussed in next section, have a 
satisfactory agreement.  They are also plotted in the Figs. 9 and 10. 
 
 
Fig. 5 Streamwise Distribution of Steady-state Nusselt Number with Various Hs/Hc Ratios 
 17
 
Fig. 8 Effects of Reynolds Number on Steady-state Local and Average External Thermal 
Resistance 
 
 
Fig.9 Correlations of Steady-state Average Nusselt Number 
 19
number (or inlet flow velocity) in the present parametric studies.  Among them, the channel 
Reynolds number (or inlet flow velocity) has the most significant effect.  For HS/TEC 
assemblies, the sNu  and extR  are more significantly affected by either one of Hs/Hc ratio and 
channel Reynolds number;  the Tca and COP are more significantly affected by either one of 
TEC current and pumping heat capacity.   
 (IV) Quadratic RSM model: To improve the accuracy and efficiency of the real design 
optimum, the less importance design factors are screened out in the RSM model.  Then the 
regression coefficients of the reduced model can be estimated with the observed data from the 
CCD experiments by the method of least-squares.  The resulting response surface quadratic 
model equations for the steady-state average Nusselt number, average external thermal 
resistance and  T-T ac can be finally obtained: 
 
85337+Re0240+)/(37186+
)Re/(0620+Re10×294-)/(91237=Nu
D
D
2
D
7-2
s
..HH.
HH..HH.
cs
cscs
        (30) 
 
]10×141+Re10×269+
)/(10×091+)Re/(10×142+
Re10×61+)/(10×[5.66=
3-
D
8-
3-
D
7-
2
D
1224-
..
HH.HH.
.HH
H
L
Ak/H
R
cscs
cs
c
H
bac
ext
           (31) 
 
ccextextc
extcextac
IQQRIRQI
RQIRTT
2-
25-22
10×12.1-89.0+31.7+.500+.787-
14.20- 10×36.7+33.0+88.11-92.6=-
     (32) 
 
(V) Model validation: The accuracies of the quadratic RSM models have been evaluated 
by comparing the predicted response values to the experimental data.  For sNu , the maximum 
and average deviations are 12.6% and 3.9%, respectively;  for extR , the maximum and average 
deviations are 11.1% and 3.6%, respectively;  the maximum deviations for COP are 17.0% 
and the maximum deviation for　Tca is less than 1 oC.  The comparisons between 
experimental data and predicted values by quadratic RSM model or empirical correlation show 
a satisfactory agreement.  Since the explicitly expressed quadratic model is close enough to 
the actual system, the optimal design can be found by applying the numerical optimization 
algorithms. 
 
(C) Numerical Optimization 
 
Case: Minimize 　Tca (X)       X = {A, B, C, D } 
Subject to  A ≥ 30 W, COP (X) ≥ 2, XL ≤ X ≤ XU 
 
A Sequential Quadratic Programming (SQP) with multi-starting-point method is 
successfully employed to efficiently seek a globally optimal thermal performance.  When 
both COP and pumping power limitation are taken into considerations, an optimal design can 
be obtained without the laborious trial-and-error procedure.  Thus, the optimal Tca (2.2 oC) or 
thermal performance improvement (75%) under both COP constraint (COP ≥ 2) and of 
pumping power limitation (Qc ≥ 30 W) with boundary limits of other design variables was 
 21
 
 
Parameter Qc,s I Hs/Hc ReD ΔTca COP
Case (IV)
Optimal Design 30 5.29 0.76 19000 0.29 2.16 2
Minimum ΔTca at Qc≥30 W with Boundary Limits and COP Constrain
extR
 
 
Fig. 12 Optimal Design at Qc ≥ 30 W with Boundary Limits and COP ≥ 2 Constraints 
 
 
7. DEVELOPMENT OF MULTIMEDIA THERMAL OPTIMAL  
CAD SYSTEM 
 
With the purpose of realizing the optimal design of heat sink/TEC assemblies, an 
interactive CAD package has been developed in the study.  The computer package includes an 
interactive graphical user interface for user/designer to communicate with the developed 
pre/post processor, the analyzer for thermal and hydrodynamic performance analysis, the 
optimizer for numerical optimization with a statistical approach, and the database for data 
storage and management.  All the programs developed for the developed CAD system are 
standardized on Microsoft© operating system by using Microsoft Visual Basic©.  Microsoft 
 23
Pre-Processor 
To analyze a thermal problem, a properly defined thermal model must be established for 
the calculation.  It is very helpful to develop an interactive pre-processing interface to generate 
the required data for thermal analyzer.  In addition, the thermal engineer would typically like 
to optimize some design variables while others are known values.  In the formulation of such 
an optimization problem, where more than one design criterion is important, the engineer has to 
assign the relative design objectives and constraints in this pre-processor subsystem.  
Afterward, all the input data will be preliminarily processed and stored into the developed 
database.   
With user-friendly multimedia tools, such as helpful auxiliary texts and graphics, the 
thermal design engineer can easily use this CAD system even without a fundamental training.  
The model construction and data pre-processing for thermal analyzer are introduced briefly in 
the following subsections. 
 
Problem Definition and Model Generating.  The pre-processor includes three parts: (1) 
problem setup, (2) core structure selection, and (3) design parameters setup.  Thermal designer 
can input the information about the model in this user-friendly pre-processor, and the realtime 
3-D visualization of the model will then be automatically generated.  In the 3-D space 
manipulation part, user can do realtime interactions with the virtual scene through simple 
mouse operations.  In addition, with applying the effects of lighting, shading, and perspective, 
users can easily see if the correct information was input or not.  This will be very helpful and 
timesaving to properly define the model.  All relevant details about the pre-processor are 
summarized as follows: 
 
(A) Problem Setup 
The overall problem setup can be defined in this section.  As shown in Fig. 14, the 
overall problem setup can be defined in this section.  For the design objectives, two options 
can be choose if an optimal thermal design under multiple constraints with a minimum thermal 
resistance and a minimum pressure drop or mass for the design task.  In addition, for the heat 
sink/TEC assembly, configuration, heating condition, and constraints of space, mass and 
pressure drop can be claimed.  The basic setup for the model is constructed by four parts: (1) 
Heating Load Conditions, (2) Multi-layer Structure, (3) Heat Source, and (4) Ambient Air 
Conditions.  For the heating load conditions part, the sides of heating load, and 2-D/3-D heat 
source can be selected; for the multi-layer structure part, the number of multi-layer structure, 
thickness, material, contact pressure, and roughness for each layer can be defined; for the heat 
source part, the type, number, size, location, power dissipation and detail configuration of each 
2-D heat source/3-D package can be defined; and for the ambient conditions part, the type of 
convection outside heat sink and ambient temperature can be defined. 
 
(B) Design Parameters Setup 
As shown in Fig. 15, this part can be divided into two parts: (1) Inlet Coolant, and (2) 
Heat Sink Configuration.  For the inlet coolant part, the type of coolant, the mass flowrate, 
and inlet temperature can be defined; and for the configuration of heat sink, which include the 
fin gap, fin thickness, fin conductivity, plate thickness, and plate conductivity for ppf  heat 
sinks, and additional options of pin diameter, streamwise gap and fin length for pfa or sfa heat 
sinks.  Before defining design parameters, the type selection of fin structure page can help 
users to select the type of fin structures which may be interested for the design; there are four 
types of fin structures can be chosen (1) PPF, (2) Pin-Fin, (3) Strip-Fin, and (4) Staggered 
Strip-Fin.  Further, multiple types can be selected simultaneously for the design optimization 
problem.  Therefore, all the design parameters can be determined to be optimized or assigned 
 25
 
 
 
 
Fig.15 Design Parameter Setup 
 
 
OPTIMIZER 
 
According to the design concepts and theories for design optimization of heat sink/TEC 
assemblies introduced in Section 6, relative contents of the design optimization procedure are 
described in the following subsections. 
 
 27
results for each heat sink structure.  With the optimal results of each heat sink structure, the 
generalized heat sinks can be determined by comparing the optimal thermal resistance, pressure 
drop or mass of each heat sink structure.   
 
POST-PROCESSOR 
  
The post-processor can generate the realtime 3-D interactive model of the optimal design, 
color isotherms of temperature distribution, and the report of all the predicted performance data; 
in addition, an interactive function has been developed for providing a direct and easy 
communication between users and the computer. 
 
Optimal Design Solutions.  According to the design criteria defined in the 
pre-processor, the regressed response surface quadratic model from the analyzer and optimizer, 
and the developed numerical programming method, the optimal design solutions can be finally 
obtained.  If only one type of fin structure of heat sink is selected for design optimization, then 
the optimal design for this fin structure of heat sink will be directly displayed in the 
post-processor.  If more then one type of fin structure of heat sink are selected for 
competitions, the overall optimal design among these types will be displayed as the default 
result, and the optimal design for each specific type will also be listed as the candidate designs. 
 
Realtime 3-D Modeling and Graphical Visualization.  The present developed 
post-processor subsystem can plot the color isotherms of temperature distributions by using the 
temperature-to-color mapping technique.  Hence, users can feel the overall temperature 
distribution by this visualization technique.  Furthermore, with applying the OpenGL library, 
the optimal structure of cold plate can be virtually realized as a 3-D model which can be 
interactively rotating and scaling.  And the realtime 3-D model, color isotherms on the 
outermost surface of heat sink and on the chip surface of each package can be also obtained. 
 
Data Post-processing and Report.  In addition to the temperature data, the analyzed 
response surfaces for thermal resistance and pressure drop can also be displayed in the 
post-processor to provide an overall exploration of design space.  Finally, the overall pressure 
drop, heat transfer coefficient, and the overall thermal resistance will be reported as a picture or 
table for user to preview and save. 
 
INTEGRATION OF OPTIMAL CAD SYSTEM 
  
The configuration of the present thermal CAD system for heat sink/TEC assemblies is 
composed of several elements such as the pre-processor, thermal analyzer, optimizer, 
post-processor and relevant data bases.  After integrating these subsystems, a complete 
optimal thermal CAD system for design of heat sink/TEC assemblies can be established. 
The following will briefly describe the procedure of performing the optimal CAD system: 
(1) Interactively input all relevant general information, claims, and design objectives needed 
for performing optimal design with the developed pre-processor.  The following three 
parts of problem setup can be interactively inputted in the pre-processor: (A) Heating Load 
Conditions, (B) Multi-layer Structure, (C) Heat Source, and (D) Ambient Air Conditions. 
(2) Define inlet coolant and assign this parameter to be known value or design variable to be 
optimized. 
(3) Select one or multiple types of heat sink to be optimized.  Four fin types can be choosing 
in this CAD system, they are: (A) PPF, (B) Pin-Fin, (C) Strip-Fin, and (D) Staggered 
Strip-Fin. 
 29
mounted on a multi-layer structure by using an effective thermal network method has been 
developed. 
(10) A design optimizer in the present thermal optimal CAD system has been established; the 
functions of the developed optimizer include to conduct experimental designs, to 
automatically construct response surface quadratic models, and then to perform numerical 
optimization. 
(11) A realtime visualization system with interactive manipulation (which includes translation, 
scaling, and rotations) techniques has been successfully developed by using OpenGL, 
accordingly, a user-friendly pre-processing interface has been developed to collect the 
required data for thermal analyzer and optimizer; and an interactive post-processor interface 
has been developed for providing a direct communication between user and computer for 
detailed information about the optimal design.  The realtime 3-D model and predicted 
color isotherms of the optimal design have been displayed with the developed 
post-processor. 
(12) A novel interactive and user-friendliness thermal optimal CAD system for automatically 
predicting the optimal thermal performance of generalized heat sinks have been 
successfully developed.  With the present developed thermal optimal CAD systems, the 
optimal thermal design applied to generalized heat sinks under multiple constraints with 
either a minimum thermal resistance or a minimum pressure drop/mass have been 
effectively performed.  The superiority of the developed thermal optimal CAD systems 
has been demonstrated. 
 
 
 31
2005, “Thermal Performance and Key Challenges for Future CPU Cooling Technologies,” 
IPACK2005-73242, in Proceedings of IPACK 2005, ASME InterPACK’05, San Francisco, CA, 
USA, July 17-22. 
[8] Vanderplaats, G. N., 1993, Numerical Optimization Techniques for Engineering Design, 
McGraw-Hill, Singapore. 
[9] Box, G. E. P., and Wilson, K. B., 1951, “On the Experimental Attainment of Optimum 
Conditions,” J. Royal Statistics Society, Series B, No. 13, pp. 1-45. 
[10] Myers, G. N., and Montgomery, D. C., 2002, Response Surface Methodology, 2nd Ed., 
John Wiley & Sons, New York. 
[11] Taylor, R. A., and Solbrekken, G. L., 2005, “An Improved Optimization Approach for 
Thermoelectric Refrigeration Applied to Portable Electronic Equipment,” IPACK2005-73190, 
in Proceedings of IPACK2005, ASME InterPACK’05, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
[12] Chen H. T., Horng, J. T., Chen, P. L., and Hung, Y. H., 2004, “Optimal Design for PPF 
Heat Sinks in Electronics Cooling Applications,” ASME Journal of Electronic Packaging, 126, 
pp. 410-422. 
[13] Chen, H. T., Chen, P. L., Horng, J. T., and Hung, Y. H., 2005, “Design Optimization for 
Pin-Fin Heat Sinks,” ASME Journal of Electronic Packaging, 127, pp. 397-406. 
[14] Ellison, G. N., 1984, Thermal Computations for Electronic Equipment, Van Nostrand 
Reinhold Co., New York. 
[15] Kline, S. J., and McClintock, F. A., 1953, “Describing Uncertainties in Single-Sample 
Experiments,” Mechanical Engineering, 75, pp. 3-8. 
[16] Moffat, R. J., 1988, “Describing the Uncertainties in Experimental Results,” Expl. 
Thermal Fluid Sci., 1, pp. 3-17. 
[17] Rowe, D. M., 1995, CRC Handbook of Thermoelectrics, CRC Press LLC, Boca Raton, 
FL. 
[18] Kraus, A. D., and Bar-Coen, A., 1983, Thermal Analysis and Control of Electronic 
Equipment, Hemisphere Publishing Corporation,Washington. 
[19] Abramzon, B., 2005, “Numerical Optimization of the Thermoelectric Cooling Devices,” 
HT2005-72686, in Proceedings of HT2005, 2005 ASME Summer Heat Transfer Conference, 
San Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
 
10. SELF-EVALUATION 
 
Three subtopics proposed to be explored in the first-year study include: (A) Forced 
Convective Heat Transfer for Heat Sink Integrated without or with Thermoelectric Coolers, (B) 
Thermal Optimal Design for Heat Sink Integrated without or with Thermoelectric Coolers, and 
(C) Development of Multimedia Thermal Optimal CAD System for Heat Sink Integrated with 
Thermoelectric Coolers.  All the proposed research tasks for the above-mentioned three 
subtopics have been completely achieved. 
 
11. PAPER PUBLICATIONS RELATED TO THIS TWO-YEAR PROJECT 
 
1. Liu, L. K., Wu, M. C., Lin, T. W., Peng, C. H., and Hung, Y. H.*, 2005, ”Natural 
Convective Heat Transfer from an Unconfined or a Confined Heated Surface,” 
HT2005-72157, Proceedings of HT2005, 2005 ASME Summer Heat Transfer Conference, 
San Francisco, USA, July 17-22. (EI) 
2. Wu, M. C., Peng, C. H., Lee, C. Y., Fang, C. J., and Hung, Y. H.*, 2005, ”Optimal Design 
for Thermal Performance of a Heat Sink Integrated with Thermoelectric Cooler,” 
HT2005-72234, Proceedings of HT2005, 2005 ASME Summer Heat Transfer Conference, 
San Francisco, USA, July 17-22. (EI) 
 33
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                      日期：96 年 09 月 01 日 
國科會補助計畫 計畫名稱：散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝熱流實驗研究 
及電腦輔助散熱最佳化設計(2/2) 
計畫主持人：洪英輝 
計畫編號：NSC 95 – 2221 – E – 007 - 140 學門領域：機械熱流 
技術/創作名稱 散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝散熱最佳化設計技術 
發明人/創作人 洪英輝、彭振賢、張世豐、吳明璋、李嘉炎、劉立崗、方俊仁、
吳調原、陳柏荔 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
技術說明 
中文：    
此技術包含下列三大內容；(1)散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝
強制對流研究，(2)散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝散熱最佳化設
計，及(3)散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝之電腦輔助最佳化設計系
統開發。在實驗方面，建立風洞渠道強制對流實驗裝置及提出有
效之實驗量測方法，來探討散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝之散熱
特性；在多媒體電腦輔助設計系統研發方面，開發相關之前置處
理器、使用者介面、熱分析器、最佳化分析器、後置處理器、散
熱座、熱擴散介質材質及熱電致冷器資料庫。此研發技術可獲得
下列之成果：(一)、完成散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝之整合；建
立電子構裝熱控實驗系統與量測技術，具備從事各種冷卻技術之
研發能力。(二)、發展完成一套相當友善之多媒體電腦輔助設計軟
體(包括前置處理器、使用者介面、熱分析器、最佳化分析器、後
置處理器、實驗設計、電子構裝材質、散熱座、熱擴散介質材質
及熱電致冷器資料庫)，具備從事各種電子構裝熱控裝置最佳化之
設計能力。 
 
 英文： 
Both the cooling performance investigation for thermal control 
of electronic packages on heat sink/spreader integrated with 
thermoelectric cooler (TEC) and the development of multi-media 
optimal thermal computer-aided design (CAD) have been performed.  
The contents include the following essential topics: (1) Forced 
convective heat transfer for heat sink/spreader integrated without or 
with thermoelectric coolers; (2) Thermal optimal design for heat 
sink/spreader integrated without or with thermoelectric coolers; and 
(3) Development of multimedia thermal optimal CAD System for 
heat sink/spreader integrated with thermoelectric coolers.  In the 
experimental aspect, a wind-tunnel thermal testing method for 
measuring temperature rises and thermal performance for electronic 
packages on a heat sink/spreader integrated without or with 
thermoelectric cooler has been successfully established.  Thermal 
 35
國科會補助專家學者出席國際會議報告 
96 年 07 月 15 日 
報 告 人 
姓    名 
洪 英 輝 服務機構 
及職稱 
國立清華大學動力機械學系
教授 
時 間 
會 議 
地 點 
96 年 07 月 08 日－07 月 12
日 
加拿大溫哥華 
國科會計畫
補助編號 
NSC95-2221-E-007-140 
會議名稱  (中文) 2007 年國際電子構裝會議 
(英文) InterPACK 2007 
 
 
 
 
發表論文 
與在會議中 
擔任之職務 
 
 
  ※發表四篇論文(前兩篇與此計畫相關)： 
 (中文) 散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝散熱最佳化設計(NSC95- 
 2221-E-007-140) 
(英文)  Thermal Optimal Design for Heat Sinks or Heat 
Sink/TEC Assemblies in a Ducted Flow (IPACK2007-33285) 
(中文) 散熱座與熱電致冷器組合構裝在各種不同外部熱阻下之半經
驗散熱最佳化研究(NSC95-2221-E-007-140) 
(英文)  A Semi-Empirically Thermal Optimization for Heat Sink/ 
TEC Assemblies with Various External Thermal Resistances 
(IPACK2007-33281) 
 
(中文) 應用圓狀噴流組衝擊旋轉多晶片模組圓碟之熱傳特性研究
(NSC95-2221-E-007-139) 
(英文)  Heat Transfer Characteristics for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk 
with Round Jet Array Impingement (IPACK2007-33277) 
 
(中文) 應用圓狀噴流組衝擊旋轉多晶片模組圓碟之流場特性研究
(NSC95-2221-E-007-139) 
(英文)  Fluid Flow Behavior for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk with 
Round Jet Array Impingement (IPACK2007-33278) 
 
※ 會議國際聯絡委員(International Liaison) 
※ 短期課程講員(Instructor, Tutorial Course) 
課程主題：Thermal Optimal Computer-Aided Design for Heat 
Sinks (時間：2:00 – 4:00pm, July 08) 
 報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 一、參加會議經過 
 二、與會心得 
 三、建議 
 四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
  
 
 
 37
and Systems II, Two-Phase Heat Transfer in Electronics Cooling II, Solid State Power 
Generation and Cooling for Electronic Packaging and Systems III, Two-Phase Heat Transfer in 
Electronics Cooling III, Thermal Analysis of Electronic Packages and Substrates I, Convection 
Cooling in Electronic Equipment, Thermal Analysis of Electronic Packages and Substrates II, 
Thermal Challenges for the Next Generation of PC Equipment, Thermal Analysis of Electronic 
Packages and Substrates III, Inspection and Testing, Assembly and Process I, Assembly and 
Process II, Lead Free Reliability I, Lead Free Reliability II, Underfill and Encapsulant Effects 
on Package Reliability, Drop Testing of Electronic Devices,  Packaging Stress Test Methods, 
Assessments of Interconnect Reliability, Package Reliability I, Package Reliability II, Solder 
Materials and Reliability, Solder Material Processing, Packaging Material Processing, Nano 
and Bio Materials and Sensors, Nano and Micro Flow, Evaluation of Nano and Micro 
Structures, and Nanoscale Heat Transfer)(64 Technical Sessions and 3 Panel Sessions)，超過
275 篇論文發表。 
另外，此會議又安排了九場非常精彩的專題演講，講員及題目分別為：(1) 講員：Arun 
Majumdar (Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Department of Materials 
Science & Engineering, University of California, Berkeley) / 題 目 ： GLOBAL 
ENERGY:  Demand, Supply, Consequences, Opportunities, (2) 講員：Douglas F. Busch (Vice 
President & Chief Technology Officer, Digital Health Group Intel Corporation) /題目：
Changing the Total Cost of Healthcare through Use of Technology, (3) 講員：Rao Tummala 
(Director, Packaging Research Center, Georgia Tech) / 題目：Leveraging Packaging for 
Performance, (4) 講員：Victor Peng (VP of Silicon Engineering, AMD) / 題目：Futuristic 
View of the Next Generation Processors, (5) 講員：Kanji Otsuka (Professor, Meisei University, 
Japan and President of Japan Institute of Electronics Packaging) /題目：History and Perspective 
of System in Package, (6) 講員：E. H. Yang (Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
Stevens Institute of Technology) /題目：Microfabricated Actuators for Space Applications, (7) 
講員：Suresh V. Garimella (R. Eugene and Susie E. Goodson Professor, and Director Purdue 
University) /題目：  Thermal Microsystems for Electronics Thermal Management Across 
Multiple Scales, (8) 講員：Krishnaswami Srihari (Distinguished Professor and Director, 
Electronic Manufacturing Research and Services, SUNY-Binghamton) /題目：Lean Principles 
and Electronics Manufacturing, (9) 講員：Anthony Primavera (Research and Development 
Fellow, Boston Scientific Corporation) /題目：Manufacturing of Implantable Electronics。 
敝人在此次會議中擔任之工作職務即參與之活動列之如下：(A)國際連絡委員
(International Liaison)；(B) 短期課程講員(Instructor, Tutorial Course) 課程主題：
Thermal Optimal Computer-Aided Design for Heat Sinks (時間：2:00 – 4:00pm, July 08); 
(C) 論 文 發 表 人 ： 敝 人 與 兩 位 博 士 班 研 究 生 共 發 表 論 文 四 篇  − (1) 
IPACK2007-33285 Thermal Optimal Design for Heat Sinks or Heat Sink/TEC Assemblies in a 
Ducted Flow (WEDNESDAY 07/11 9:00 - 10:30am; TM17 Solid State Power Generation and 
 39
有機會參加下次 2009 年 InterPACK’09 會議。如此一來，不但可提高國內參加者個人的研
發品質；同時亦能促進國際電子構裝學術技術交流合作之關係。此對我國二十一世紀電
子工業尖端研究發展是相當重要；而且是有絕對的助益。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
merit, ZT.  Recently, Bierschenk and Johnson [5] suggested that 
a proper design thermoelectric cooler could provide a effectively 
“negative thermal resistance” and enhance the COP of TEC 
using present materials.  Intel [6, 7] presented the thermal and 
reliability capability of TEC based cooling devices with 
application to CPU.   
Optimization is the process of maximizing or minimizing 
a desired objective function while satisfying the prevailing 
constraints.  Modern optimization methods were pioneered by 
Courant’s paper on penalty functions.  Later, a powerful 
gradient-based nonlinear optimization method, sequential 
quadratic programming (SQP) method for constrained 
minimization was developed.  All the above-mentioned 
theories and methods are well-discussed by Vanderplaats [8].  
Recently, response surface methodology (RSM) is applied to 
many optimizing processes and well adapted to make analytical 
models.  The origin of RSM is the seminal paper presented by 
Box and Wilson [9].  In addition, Myers and Montgomery [10] 
studied deeply the response surface methodology and provided 
a detailed analysis and discussion with the choice of an 
experimental design and the use of response transformations.  
In Ref.[11], optimal designs of a heat sink integrated with a 
TEC were discussed analytically or experimentally.  Among 
these studies, most attention was focused on 
one-factor-at-a-time optimization, however, without the 
systematical consideration.  More recently, Chen et al. [12, 13] 
presented an effective method for predicting and optimizing the 
thermal performance of heat sinks under a given design 
constraint of pressure drop. 
 In this study, the experiments of heat sinks and HS/TEC 
in a ducted flow will be performed to investigate the heat 
transfer characteristics; the effects of parameters on the 
transient-/steady-state local and average Nusselt numbers and 
external thermal resistances will then be discussed.  By the 
statistical sensitivity analysis of ANOVA F-test, the 
insignificant parameters will be screened out and a series of 
RSM models for evaluating heat transfer characteristics could 
be established.  A Sequential Quadratic Programming is 
employed to efficiently seek a globally optimal thermal 
performance under some constraints. 
 
THE EXPERIMENTS 
Experimental Facilities 
The present experimental facilities, shown in Fig. 1, are 
composed of four major parts, i.e., (1) air supply facilities, (2) 
pressure load unit, (3) test section and types of test assembly, (4) 
apparatus and instrumentation. The test section which is 
composed of an adjustable channel height and the test block is 
designed to investigate the effects of flow bypass.  The test 
assembly shown in Fig. 2 has two types: heat sinks and the 
HS/TES assembly.  The heat sinks are made of aluminum 
alloy 6063 material.  The HS/TEC assembly is composed of 
heat sink and TEC.  The apparatus and instrumentation 
include T-type thermocouple, precisely digital multi-meter, a 
set of precise heat flux meter, and a real-time infrared (IR) 
thermometer to measure temperature, power input, heat flux, 
and emissivity. 
 
Data Reduction 
For exploring heat transfer characteristics, i.e. local and 
average heat transfer coefficients and thermal resistances, on a 
heat sink and HS/TEC assembly, a further data reduction is 
needed to transfer temperatures to heat transfer information. 
(I) Heat sinks: The total heat flux into heat sink base, qt, 
which is measured by heat flux meter, is converted into the 
following three heat transfer modes at any specific transient 
time: (1) radiactive heat loss, qr, which is evaluated with 
thermal diffuse gray-body networks for U-channel heat sinks 
proposed by Ellison [14]; (2) internal energy change in the 
control volume of test assembly, qi; and (3) convective heat 
dissipated from the test surface, qcv.  The transient average 
Nusselt numbers is similar to transient local Nusselt number, 
but with difference that all parameters are based on the base 
surface of heat sink.  They can be expressed as: 
 
Fig. 1 Overall Experimental Setup 
 
 
 
70Unit : mm
Bakelite
Heat Flux Meter
Stainless Steel 
Sheet
70
0.3
0.8
Heater
Heat Sink
TEC 4
 
Fig. 2 Test Assemblies of HS/TEC 
 
i-q-qqq rtcv =                            (1) 
 
iq-q-qq rtcv =                            (2) 
 
bbb
cv A
-
AA
q i
b
rtcv Q
A
Q-
QQ ==                    (3) 
 
where Ab is the area on the basis of the whole heat sink base 
area, Qr is the radiative heat loss from the heat sink surface to 
its surroundings, Qi is the internal-energy change of the test 
assembly, Qt is the total heat flow into heat sink base, which 
equals qtAb.  Usually, the steady-state condition is considered 
to be achieved when qi approaches zero; the qr reaches its 
steady-state values; and the qcv variation with time is less than 1 
%.  In general, the steady-state conditions can be achieved 
about 10 minutes after the power is turned on.  The transient 
local and average heat transfer coefficient and Nusselt numbers 
and steady-state local and average external thermal resistance 
on the test surface can be respectively defined as 
 2
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
becomes 
TK
R
Tα
Q Cc ∆-2
=
22
                        (14) 
 
When the temperature difference across the TEC of 
∆T=0, the maximum heat pumping capacity is achieved: 
R
T
Q cc 2
α
=
22
max,
                           (15) 
  
When Imax is used in the module with cold junction 
thermally insulated, one has the case where the Peltier effect 
balances the Joule loss and heat leakage.  This yields the 
maximum temperature differential: 
KR
Tα
T c
2
=∆
22
max
                           (16) 
  
From above equations, the normalized universal 
performance equation of TEC can be obtained: 
 
max,
2
maxmaxmax
-)(-)(2=
∆
∆
c
c
Q
Q
I
I
I
I
T
T
           
( 1 7 )
 
1+)1-(=
maxmax h
c
T
T
I
I
V
V
                     
 (18)
 
 
The four performance parameters with a specific hot 
side temperature are summarized as follows: 
Imax (A): DC current that yields the ∆Tmax at no heat load or 
maximum heat pumping capacity, Qc,max, at ∆T=0; 
∆Tmax (oC): the maximum achievable temperature difference at 
specific hot side temperature and Imax with no heat 
load; 
Qc,max (W): maximum achievable cooling power at ∆T=0 with 
current Imax; 
Vmax (V): the terminal voltage for Imax and ∆Tmax. 
 
It is worth to note that TEC operating with maximum 
heat pumping current is different from that operating with 
maximum temperature difference current. 
To determine the maximum performance parameters, the 
measured results can be used to derive an empirical correlation.  
The temperature difference between hot side and cold side can 
be expressed as follows: 
KI
QRIIT
T ch
+α
-/2-α
=∆
2
                    
(19)
 
 
From above equation, the temperature difference 
between hot side and cold side would be the function of input 
current, pumping capacity, and the temperature of hot side.  
Based on all the experimental data, a correlation by using a least 
standard deviation method (Box et al., 1978) is proposed.  This 
proposed correlation can be expressed as 
 
893.1+0367.0
-26.0-0367.0
=∆
2
I
QITI
T ch
               
(20)
 
 
The similar procedure is applied to the TEC module voltage: 
 
ITV 52.0+∆0367.0=                      (21) 
   
The average deviations of these two correlations 
compared with the experimental data of are 6.6% and 3.9%, and 
the maximum deviations are 16.9% and 9.9%, respectively.  
The maximum TEC current could be defined at two different 
operating conditions: ∆T=0 or Qc=0.  In the former condition, 
Imax is 
hTI 0706.0=max                           (22) 
 
(B) Determination of Physical Properties 
The data on the physical properties α, R, K of TEC 
module are presented in a lot of literature [17,18].  The 
manufacturer of thermoelectric module usually does not provide 
this kind of data for their customers.  An alternative way to 
estimate these properties is employing the maximum 
performance parameters [19].  Using the value of reference hot 
side temperature (Th=27 oC provided by manufacturers), the 
Seebeck coefficient, electrical resistance and thermal 
conductance can be expressed as follows: 
hT
V
α max=                           ( 2 3 ) 
 
)
∆
-1(= max
max
max
hT
T
I
V
R                    ( 2 4 ) 
 
max
maxmaxmax
∆2
)∆-(
=
TT
TTIV
K
h
h              ( 2 5 ) 
 
The results are listed in Table 2 and categorized as vendor’s 
data and experimental data.  
 
Table 2 Summary of Physical Properties for TEC 
 
 Manufacturer Data Experimental Data 
Type Case 1 Case 2 
Imax (A) 30 18.1 
Qc,max (W) 266.7 114.3 
∆Tmax (oC) 68 44.7 
Vmax (V) 15.4 11 
α (V/K) 0.0513 0.0363 
R (Ω) 0.397 0.5 
K (W/K) 2.627 1.875 
 
(C) Measurement of New Performance Correlations 
In the present study, the ranges of relevant parameters 
studied at steady state are I=2~10 A, Qc=8~50 W, and 
extR =0.25~1.80 oC/W.  Based on the present experimental 
data, new performance correlations for ∆T (the temperature 
difference between hT  and cT ) and V (terminal voltage in 
the thermoelectric module) can be obtained by using the least 
square method and expressed in the following forms, 
respectively. 
CCextext
CextCext
IQAQRAIRA
QAIARAQAIARAT
987
654
2
3
2
2
2
1
+++
+++++=∆
  
( 2 6 )
 
 
CCextext
CextCext
IQBQRBIRB
QBIBRBQBIBRBV
987
654
2
3
2
2
2
1
+++
+++++=
   
( 2 7 )
 
 
where A1= 1.64; A2= -7.47╳10-2; A3= -2.27╳10-4; A4= 1.48;  
A5= 6.55; A6= -0.52; A7= 0.78; A8= 0.12; A9= 1.22╳10-2.   
B1= -8.39╳10-2; B2= -8.10╳10-3; B3= -1.15╳10-4; B4= -0.11; 
 B5= 0.50; B6= -5.86╳10-3; B7= 0.16; B8= 6.25╳10-3; 
 B9=-1.01╳10-3. 
The average and maximum deviations of the results 
predicted by Eq. (26) from experimental data are 3.6% and 
18.7%, respectively.  The average and maximum deviations of 
the results predicted by Eq. (27) from experimental data are 
1.5% and 11.6%, respectively. 
 
 4
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
comparisons between correlations and experimental data are 
shown in Figs. 9 and 10.  Two empirical correlations to 
predicted Nusselt number and xtR e , which are resulted from 
response surface method model and will be discussed in next 
section, have a satisfactory agreement.  They are also plotted 
in the Figs. 9 and 10. 
 
Fig. 5 Streamwise Distribution of Steady-state Nusselt 
Number with Various Hs/Hc Ratios 
 
Fig. 6 Effects of Hs/Hc Ratio on Steady-state Local and 
Average External Thermal Resistance  
 
Fig. 7 Streamwise Distribution of Steady-state Nusselt 
Number with Various Reynolds Number 
  
Fig. 8 Effects of Reynolds Number on Steady-state Local and 
Average External Thermal Resistance 
 
Fig.9 Correlations of Steady-state Average Nusselt Number 
 
Fig. 10 Correlations of Steady-state Average External Thermal 
Resistance 
 
DESIGN OPTIMIZATION FOR HEAT SINKS AND HEAT 
SINK/TEC ASSEMBLIES 
(A) Design Variables for Heat Sinks 
The design variables of heat sink and HS/TEC 
 6
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
(3) The effects of extR , Qc,s  and I on local and average 
 o
(4) ensitivity analysis of ANOVA F-test, 
thermal resistance f HS/TEC assemblies are significant. 
As compared with thermal performance of heat sinks, the 
reduction of thermal resistance for HS/TEC assemblies 
can be achieved between 15% and 580% in the present 
parametric ranges. 
By the statistical s
the steady-state average Nusselt number and average 
external thermal resistance for heat sinks and HS/TEC 
assemblies are significantly affected by either one of ReD 
and Hs/Hc, and  T-T ac  is significantly affected by any 
one of extR , I and  the present parametric studies; 
A serie f RSM models for evaluating heat transfer 
 Qc,s in
(5) s o
characteristics of heat sinks and HS/TEC assemblies 
(including average Nusselt number, average external 
thermal resistance and  T-T ac ) are established.  The 
maximum deviations of sults predicted by these 
models from the experimental data are 12.6%, 11.1% and 
1 
the re
(6) ulti-start-point method is employed to 
 
oC, respectively.  Satisfactory agreements are achieved 
for all the cases. 
The SQP with m
automatically and efficiently seek a globally optimal 
design for thermal performance of heat sinks and HS/TEC 
assemblies in a ducted flow.  When both the COP 
constraint and pumping power limitation are 
simultaneously taken into considerations, an optimal 
design of HS/TEC assemblies for reduction of thermal 
resistance (75%) under both COP constraint (COP ≥ 2) 
and pumping power limitation (Qc≥ 30 W) was found. 
 
Parameter Qc,s I Hs/Hc ReD ∆Tca COP
Case (IV)
Optimal Design 30 5.29 0.76 19000 0.29 2.16 2
Minimum ∆Tca at Qc≥30 W with Boundary Limits and COP Constrain
extR
 
 
ig. 12 Optimal Design at Qc ≥ 30 W with Boundary Limits 
 
CKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
k the National Science Council, 
Taiw
FERENCES 
1957, Semiconductor Thermoelements and 
onic Equipment, 
iversal Thermoelectric Design 
pplication of 
n, D. 2004, “Extending the Limits of 
, I., Erturk, H., Chrysler, G., Bala, V., and Mahajan, 
rysler, G., 
imization 
 
, 2002, Response 
hen, P. L., and Hung, Y. H., 
Chen, P. L., Horng, J. T., and Hung, Y. H., 
r Electronic 
Describing 
, “Describing the Uncertainties in 
s, 
A., 1983, Thermal Analysis 
5, “Numerical Optimization of the 
F
and COP ≥ 2 Constraints 
A
The authors wish to than
an for the support under the grant numbers 
NSC94-2212-E-007-055 and 95-2221-E-007-140. 
  
RE
[1] Ioffe, A. F., 
Thermoelectric Cooling, Infosearch, London. 
[2] Kraus, A. D., 1965, Cooling Electr
Prentice-Hall, New York, NY. 
[3] Buist, R. J., 1980, “Un
Curves,” 15th Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering 
Conference, Seattle, Washington, August 18-22. 
[4] Simons, R. E., and Chu, R. C., 2000, “A
Thermoelectric Cooling to Electronic Equipment: A Review 
and Analysis,” 16th IEEE SEMI-THERM Symposium, San Jose, 
CA, USA, March 21-23. 
[5]Bierschenk, J., Johnso
Air Cooling with Thermoelectrically Enhanced Heat Sink,” in 
Proceedings of ITHERM 2004, pp.679-684, Las Vegas, USA, 
June 1-4. 
[6]Sauciuc
R., 2005, “Thermal Devices ntegrated with Thermoelectric 
Modules with Applications to CPU Cooling,” 
IPACK2005-73243, in Proceedings of IPACK 2005, ASME 
InterPACK’05, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
[7] Sauciuc, I., Prasher, R., Chang, J. Y., Erturk, H., Ch
Chiu, C. P., and Mahajan, R., 2005, “Thermal Performance and 
Key Challenges for Future CPU Cooling Technologies,” 
IPACK2005-73242, in Proceedings of IPACK 2005, ASME 
InterPACK’05, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
[8] Vanderplaats, G. N., 1993, Numerical Opt
Techniques for Engineering Design, McGraw-Hill, Singapore. 
[9] Box, G. E. P., and Wilson, K. B., 1951, “On the
Experimental Attainment of Optimum Conditions,” J. Royal 
Statistics Society, Series B, No. 13, pp. 1-45. 
[10] Myers, G. N., and Montgomery, D. C.
Surface Methodology, 2nd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New York. 
[11] Taylor, R. A., and Solbrekken, G. L., 2005, “An Improved 
Optimization Approach for Thermoelectric Refrigeration 
Applied to Portable Electronic Equipment,” IPACK2005-73190, 
in Proceedings of IPACK2005, ASME InterPACK’05, San 
Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
[12] Chen H. T., Horng, J. T., C
2004, “Optimal Design for PPF Heat Sinks in Electronics 
Cooling Applications,” ASME Journal of Electronic Packaging, 
126, pp. 410-422. 
[13] Chen, H. T., 
2005, “Design Optimization for Pin-Fin Heat Sinks,” ASME 
Journal of Electronic Packaging, 127, pp. 397-406. 
[14] Ellison, G. N., 1984, Thermal Computations fo
Equipment, Van Nostrand Reinhold Co., New York. 
[15] Kline, S. J., and McClintock, F. A., 1953, “
Uncertainties in Single-Sample Experiments,” Mechanical 
Engineering, 75, pp. 3-8. 
[16] Moffat, R. J., 1988
Experimental Results,” Expl. Thermal Fluid Sci., 1, pp. 3-17. 
[17] Rowe, D. M., 1995, CRC Handbook of Thermoelectric
CRC Press LLC, Boca Raton, FL. 
[18] Kraus, A. D., and Bar-Coen, 
and Control of Electronic Equipment, Hemisphere Publishing 
Corporation,Washington. 
[19] Abramzon, B., 200
Thermoelectric Cooling Devices,” HT2005-72686, in 
Proceedings of HT2005, 2005 ASME Summer Heat Transfer 
Conference, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
 8
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
multi-chip module integrated with or without thermoelectric 
coolers. They demonstrated the limitations of allowable 
power consumption because of the poor COP and the lower 
figure of merit, ZT.  Recently, Bierschenk and Johnson [5] 
suggested that a proper design thermoelectric cooler could 
provide an effectively “negative thermal resistance” and 
enhance the COP of TEC using present materials.  Intel [6, 7] 
presented the thermal and reliability capability of TEC based 
cooling devices with application to CPU. 
Optimization is the process of maximizing or 
minimizing a desired objective function while satisfying the 
prevailing constraints.  Modern optimization methods were 
well-discussed by Vanderplaats [8].  Recently, response 
surface methodology (RSM) is applied to many optimizing 
processes and well adapted to make analytical models.  The 
origin of RSM is the seminal paper presented by Box and 
Wilson [9].  In addition, Myers and Montgomery [10] 
studied deeply the response surface methodology and 
provided a detailed analysis and discussion with the choice 
of an experimental design and the use of response 
transformations.  In Refs.[11], optimal designs of a heat 
sink integrated with a TEC were discussed analytically or 
experimentally.  Among these studies, most attention was 
focused on one-factor-at-a-time optimization, however, 
without the systematical consideration.  More recently, 
Chen et al. [12, 13] presented an effective method for 
predicting and optimizing the thermal performance of heat 
sinks under a given design constraint of pressure drop.  In 
their study, response surface methodology was employed to 
establish explicitly models for the thermal resistance and 
pressure drop in terms of the key design factors with a 
central composite design (CCD).  By employing the SQP 
technique, a series of constrained optimal designs can be 
efficiently performed.  Moreover, the discussion for optimal 
design cases with multiple constraints such as pressure drop, 
mass and space limitations were presented.  From the 
foregoing literature survey, the constrained optimal thermal 
designs for HS/TEC assemblies with design optimization 
techniques have not been systematically investigated.    
Therefore, the research objectives in the present study 
are described as follows: (1) to propose a new semi-empirical 
method that combines theoretical thermal network model and 
empirical performance correlations for evaluating thermal 
performance of HS/TEC assemblies under different external 
thermal resistances; (2) to exhibit a series of parametric 
studies on thermal performance improvements of HS/TEC 
assemblies with various external thermal resistances; and (3) 
To conduct a series of constrained optimal designs for heat 
sinks and HS/TEC assemblies under various external thermal 
resistances by employing design optimization procedures. 
 
THE EXPERIMENTS 
Experimental Facilities 
The present experimental facilities, shown in Fig. 1, are 
composed of four major parts, i.e., (1) air supply facilities, (2) 
pressure load unit, (3) test section and types of test assembly, 
(4) apparatus and instrumentation. The test section which is 
composed of an adjustable channel height and the test block 
is designed to investigate the effects of flow bypass.  The 
test assembly, HS/TES assembly, is shown in Fig. 2. The 
HS/TEC assembly is composed of heat sink and TEC, and 
the specifications are listed in Table 1.  The apparatus and 
instrumentation include T-type thermocouple, precise multi- 
meter, a set of precise heat flux meter, and a real-time 
infrared (IR) thermometer to measure temperature, power 
input, heat flux, and emissivity. 
 
Fig. 1 Overall Experimental Setup with Relevant Measuring 
System for Ducted Flow 
 
 
70Unit : mm
Bakelite
Heat Flux Meter
Stainless Steel 
Sheet
70
0.3
0.8
Heater
Heat Sink
TEC 4
 
Fig. 2 Test Assemblies of HS/TEC 
 
Data Reduction 
The external and overall thermal resistances are 
expressed as: 
 
t
ab
ext
Q
-TT=R                                (1) 
 
c
ac
th
Q
TTR -=                              (2) 
 
where Qt is the total heat flow into heat sink base; Qc is the 
heat pumping capacity at cold side, which equals total heat 
flow into test assembly in steady-state; Tc denotes the cold 
side temperature of TEC; Ta represents air temperature at 
channel inlet; Tb is the average heat sink base temperature. 
 
Test Matrix 
An effective method so-called “design of experiments” 
(DOE) is employed to perform experimental investigations in 
the present study.  DOE is a systematic statistical approach 
to explore the relationships between design variables and 
thermal performance accomplished with the minimal number 
of experimental runs.  The parameters are listed in Table 2.  
By employing the method of design of experiments (DOE), 
the total experiments were reduced to 27 cases. 
 
Sensitivity Analysis 
The analysis of variance (ANOVA) is an appropriate 
procedure for testing the sensitivity analysis.  The purpose 
of ANOVA is to test differences for significant differences 
between means.  This is accomplished by analyzing the 
variance by partitioning the total variance into the 
 2
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
 
extLab RQTT ×+=                      (8) 
where Tb is the temperature of heat sink base and QL is the 
given heat load.  The model is used for the evaluation 
whether the use of the thermoelectric cooler will be 
beneficial. 
 
Table 3 Summary of Analysis Methods under Various 
External Thermal Resistances 
 
Method Performance Equations 
Total Required 
Equations 
Given 
Parameters 
Unknown 
Parameters
I Eqs. (9) and (10) 
Eqs. (6), (7), 
(9) and (10) 
Imax, Qc,max, 
∆Tmax, Vmax, 
Rext, I, Qc, Ta 
∆T, Th, Tc, 
V, Pte, COP
II Eqs. (14) and (15) 
Eqs. (6), (7), 
(14) and (15) 
α, R, K,  Rext, 
I, Qc, Ta 
∆T, Th, Tc, 
V, Pte, COP
III Eqs. (19) and (20) 
Eqs. (6), (7), 
(22) and (23)  Rext, I, Qc, Ta 
∆T, Th, Tc, 
V, Pte, COP
 
Table 4 Summary of Physical Properties for TEC 
 
Manufacturer Data
Type Case 1
Imax (A) 30
Qc,max (W) 266.7
∆Tmax (
oC) 68
Vmax (V) 15.4
α (V/K) 0.0513
R (Ω) 0.397
K (W/K) 2.627
44.7
1.875
11
0.0363
0.5
Experimental Data
Case 2
18.1
114.3
 
 
Semi-Empirical Methods 
In order to investigate thermal performance of a 
HS/TEC assembly, the thermal network analysis is employed.  
However, there are some unknown parameters needed to be 
determined by adding performance equations of ∆T and V 
and input parameters.  According to the performance 
equations, three analysis methods have been proposed and 
listed in Table 3, and the physical properties have been listed 
in Table 4. 
(A) Method I 
In the method I, the performance equations of ∆T and V 
are determined by normalized universal performance 
equations: 
 
max,
2
maxmaxmax
-)(-)(2=
∆
∆
c
c
Q
Q
I
I
I
I
T
T
            (9) 
 
1+)1-(=
maxmax h
c
T
T
I
I
V
V
                     (10) 
 
By substituting Eqs. (9) and (10) into Eq. (6), Tc can be 
solved and Pte and COP can be expressed as: 
 
2
4-+-
=
2 cbb
Tc                        (11) 
 
]+
+∆
)1-([= max
max
max VTT
T
I
I
VIP
c
c
te           (12) 
 
1-
max
max
max ]++∆
)1-([= V
TT
T
I
I
V
I
Q
COP
c
cc      ( 13 ) 
For the given I, Qc, Rext, Ta and the performance 
parameters, the unknown parameters such as Tc, Th, Pte and 
COP of the HS/TEC assembly could be calculated from Eqs. 
(11), (6), (11) and (12), respectively.  The comparisons of 
the predicated results such as ∆T, Tc, Th and COP with the 
present experimental data are conducted.  The average 
deviations of ∆T and COP in present study are larger than 
15.7% and 5.7%, respectively. It manifests that the thermal 
performance of the HS/TEC assembly evaluated by universal 
performance equation and performance parameters may 
induce inaccurate results.  
 
(B) Method II 
For the present thermal network model with the TEC 
module, the performance equations of ∆T and V can be not 
only determined by the normalized performance parameters 
but also material properties.  The performance equations of 
∆T and V are 
 
TKRIITαQ cc ∆-2/-=
2                   (14) 
 
IRTαV +∆=                            (15) 
 
By substituting Eqs. (14) and (15) into Eq. (6), the cold 
side temperature, Tc can be obtained: 
 
 
]
))-(-1(2
+
)-(-1
+
2
+
2
[×
)-(-1
-
+
1
=
2
2
KIαR
RIR
KIαR
T
K
Q
K
RI
KIαR
KR
K
KIαT
ext
ext
ext
ac
ext
ext
c
 ( 1 6 ) 
 
Similarly, the Pte and COP can be evaluated by 
following expressions, that is, 
 
RIQIITαKIαP ccte
22 +)-R5.0-)(/(=         (17) 
 
1-22 ]+)-5.0-)(/[(= RIQIITαKIαQCOP ccc     (18) 
 
For the given I, Qc, Rext, Ta and the physical properties, 
the unknown parameters such as Tc, Th, Pte and COP of the 
HS/TEC assembly could be calculated from Eqs. (16), (6), 
(17) and (18), respectively.  The physical properties such as 
α, R, K are evaluated by 
 
hT
V
α max=                                (19) 
)
∆
-1(= max
max
max
hT
T
I
V
R                       (20) 
max
maxmaxmax
∆2
)∆-(
=
TT
TTIV
K
h
h                   (21) 
 
The comparisons of the predicated results such as ∆T, Tc, 
Th and COP with the present experimental data are also 
conducted.  The average deviations of ∆T and COP in 
present study are 5.2% and 6.1%, respectively, as well as the 
maximum deviations of ∆T and COP in present study are 
36.5% and 11.5%, respectively.  The results manifest that 
the thermal performance of the HS/TEC assembly evaluated 
by physical properties may be appropriate for prototype 
design of the HS/TEC assembly in earlier stage.  However, 
the manufacturers of TEC are likely to provide inaccurate 
data due to the variation of manufacturing process.  The 
testing of the physical properties in the TEC is necessary.  
Furthermore, a more accurate predicted method should be 
developed because of the inaccuracy in lower temperature 
 4
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
heat capacity for reduction of thermal resistances.  The 
results exhibit that γ decreases with increasing Qc, but COP 
increases with increasing Qc.  Furthermore, the maximum 
γ exceeds 450% at lower pumping heat capacity.  The 
results also indicate the region where HS/TEC assembly 
offers an advantage over the heat sink.  The HS/TEC 
assembly only provides an advantage for powers less than 
47.8 W.  For the improvement of external thermal 
resistances, the γ has the maximum value (109%) while 
power is about 24 W.  However, the thermal performance 
improvements rapidly decrease with increasing Qc. 
 
Fig. 5 Effect of TEC Current on Reduction of Thermal 
Resistance and COP 
 
 
Fig. 6 Effect of Pumping Heat Capacity on Reduction of 
Thermal Resistance and COP  
 
Effect of ∆Tca.   Figure 7 exhibits the γ and COP on 
the HS/TEC assembly with various ∆Tca for enhancement of 
module heat loads.  The results exhibit that γ decreases 
with increasing ∆Tca, but COP slightly increases with 
increasing ∆Tca. Furthermore, the allowable module heat 
loads increases more than 380% at ∆Tca=2 oC.     
For the purpose of reduction of thermal resistance, it 
can exceed more than 450%, but the penalty is that COP is 
less than 1 and the pumping heat capacity must be in lower 
level.  The results reveal that γ increases with increasing 
TEC current and pumping heat capacity, but COP decreases 
with increasing TEC current and pumping heat capacity.  
The tradeoffs between γ and COP are the major design 
problem.  Therefore, the COP constraint and power 
limitation should be considered simultaneously in the 
optimal design. 
The enhancement of module heat loads can exceed 
more than 380%, however, it rapidly decreases with 
increasing ∆Tca.  The results also reveal thatγincreases 
with increasing TEC current, but COP decreases with 
increasing TEC current.  The tradeoffs betweenγand COP 
are the major design problem.  Therefore, the COP 
constraint should be considered in the optimal design. 
The improvement of external thermal resistance can 
exceed more than 370%, however, it rapidly decreases with 
increasing ∆Tca and Qc.  The results also reveal that 　 
increases with increasing TEC current, but COP decreases 
with increasing TEC current.  The tradeoffs between 　 and 
COP are the major design problem.  Therefore, the COP 
constraint should be considered in the optimal design.  
 
Fig. 7 Effect of ∆Tca on Enhancement of Module Heat 
Loads and COP 
 
DESIGN OPTIMIZATION FOR THERMAL 
PERFORMANCE UNDER DIFFERENT EXTERNAL 
THERMAL RESISTANCES 
 
To investigate the benefits of HS/TEC assemblies, a 
series of optimal designs based on thermal analysis method 
for HS/TEC assemblies are performed. 
 
Design Variables for HS/TEC Assemblies 
After analyzing the thermal problem and defining the 
design objectives, the design variables of a HS/TEC assembly 
are listed in Table 5 for three thermal performance 
improvements. 
 
Model Establishment 
To explore the relationships between design variables 
and responses such as thermal performance improvement (γ) 
and COP, the 3-factor CCD was chosen.  According to results 
in ANOVA of the γ and COP, a sensitivity analysis for design 
factors was performed and shown in Fig. 8.  For γ, the factor 
contribution of A (Rext), B (I), and C (Qc) are 9.7%, 20.4% and 
69.8%, respectively, as well as, for COP, the factor 
contribution of A (Rext), B (I), and C (Qc) are 0.1%, 81.5% and 
18.4%, respectively.  From the results, for the reduction of 
thermal resistances, the γ and COP are more significantly 
affected by either one of TEC current and pumping heat 
capacity in the present parametric studies; for enhancement of 
module heat loads, the γ is significantly affected by TEC 
current and temperature difference between cold sides and 
ambient, but COP is more significantly affected by external 
thermal resistance and TEC current; for the improvement of 
external thermal resistance, the γ is also significantly affected 
by TEC current and temperature difference between cold sides 
and ambient, but COP is more significantly affected by TEC 
current and pumping heat capacity. 
The regression coefficients of the RSM model can be 
estimated with the observed data from the CCD experiments 
by the method of least-squares.  The accuracy of the 
quadratic RSM models has been evaluated by comparing the 
 6
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
can effectively extend the cooling limits for traditional 
air-cooled heat sinks. 
 
Parameter Rext I ∆Tca γ COP
Case (III) Maximum γ with Boundary Limits and COP Constraints
Optimal Design 0.33 5.16 4 146% 2  
 
Fig.10 Optimal Design for Heat Loads Enhancement 
 
Parameter Rext I ∆Tca γ COP
Case (III) Maximum γ with Boundary Limits and COP Constraints
Optimal Design 0.33 5.16 4 146% 2  
 
Fig. 11 Optimal Design for Heat Loads Enhancement 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
Based on the results and discussion, the main 
conclusions emerged from this study are listed below: 
(1) An effective semi-empirical method combines thermal 
network models and empirical correlations for exploring the 
thermal performance of HS/TEC assemblies under different 
external thermal resistances are successfully established.  
Comparisons of the predicted parameters such as ∆T, Tc, Th 
and COP evaluated by this method with the experimental 
data are made with the average deviations of 3.6%, 1.3%, 
0.3% and 1.5%, respectively; as well as with the maximum 
deviations of 18.7%, 5.8%, 2.2% and 13.1%, respectively. 
(2) From view of reduction of thermal resistance, the using 
of TEC can provide more than 57% improvements over 
air-cooled heat sink under both COP constraint (COP ≥ 2) 
and pumping power limitation (Qc ≥ 30 W).  The present 
results show that HS/TEC assemblies can provide a negative 
thermal resistance and extend the upper limits of air-cooled 
heat sinks. 
(3) From view of enhancement of module heat loads, the 
allowable module heat loads can increase more than 146% 
under a maximum acceptable COP of 2.  The present results 
show that HS/TEC assemblies can provide an extra pumping 
heat capacity over air-cooled heat sinks. 
(4) From view of improvement of external thermal 
resistance, the using of TEC can provide more than 141% 
improvements under COP constraint (COP ≥ 2) and pumping 
power limitation (Qc ≥ 30 W).  The present optimal design 
shows that the using of HS/TEC assemblies can effectively 
reduce the heat exchanger requirement as compared with 
traditional air-cooled heat sinks. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The authors wish to thank the National Science Council, 
Taiwan for the support under the grant numbers 
NSC94-2212-E-007-055 and NSC95-2221-E-007-140. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Ioffe, A. F., 1957, Semiconductor Thermoelements and 
Thermoelectric Cooling, Infosearch, London. 
[2] Kraus, A. D., 1965, Cooling Electronic Equipment, 
Prentice-Hall, New York, NY. 
[3] Buist, R. J., 1980, “Universal Thermoelectric Design 
Curves,” 15th Intersociety Energy Conversion Engineering 
Conference, Seattle, Washington, August 18-22. 
[4] Simons, R. E., and Chu, R. C., 2000, “Application of 
Thermoelectric Cooling to Electronic Equipment: A Review 
and Analysis,” 16th IEEE SEMI-THERM Symposium, San 
Jose, CA, USA, March 21-23. 
[5] Bierschenk, J., Johnson, D. 2004, “Extending the Limits 
of Air Cooling with Thermoelectrically Enhanced Heat 
Sink,” in Proceedings of ITHERM 2004, pp.679-684, Las 
Vegas, USA, June 1-4. 
[6] Sauciuc, I., Erturk, H., Chrysler, G., Bala, V., and 
Mahajan, R., 2005, “Thermal Devices ntegrated with 
Thermoelectric Modules with Applications to CPU Cooling,” 
IPACK2005-73243, in Proceedings of IPACK 2005, ASME 
InterPACK’05, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
[7] Sauciuc, I., Prasher, R., Chang, J. Y., Erturk, H., Chrysler, 
G., Chiu, C. P., and Mahajan, R., 2005, “Thermal 
Performance and Key Challenges for Future CPU Cooling 
Technologies,” IPACK2005-73242, in Proceedings of IPACK 
2005, ASME InterPACK’05, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 
17-22. 
[8] Vanderplaats, G. N., 1993, Numerical Optimization 
Techniques for Engineering Design, McGraw-Hill, 
Singapore. 
[9] Box, G. E. P., and Wilson, K. B., 1951, “On the 
Experimental Attainment of Optimum Conditions,” J. Royal 
Statistics Society, Series B, No. 13, pp. 1-45. 
[10] Myers, G. N., and Montgomery, D. C., 2002, Response 
Surface Methodology, 2nd Ed., John Wiley & Sons, New 
York. 
[11] Taylor, R. A., and Solbrekken, G. L., 2005, “An 
Improved Optimization Approach for Thermoelectric 
Refrigeration Applied to Portable Electronic Equipment,” 
IPACK2005-73190, in Proceedings of IPACK2005, ASME 
InterPACK’05, San Francisco, CA, USA, July 17-22. 
[12] Chen H. T., Horng, J. T., Chen, P. L., and Hung, Y. H., 
2004, “Optimal Design for PPF Heat Sinks in Electronics 
Cooling Applications,” ASME Journal of Electronic 
Packaging, 126, pp. 410-422. 
[13] Chen, H. T., Chen, P. L., Horng, J. T., and Hung, Y. H., 
2005, “Design Optimization for Pin-Fin Heat Sinks,” ASME 
Journal of Electronic Packaging, 127, pp. 397-406. 
[14] Kline, S. J., and McClintock, F. A., 1953, “Describing 
Uncertainties in Single-Sample Experiments,” Mechanical 
Engineering, 75, pp. 3-8. 
[15] Moffat, R. J., 1988, “Describing the Uncertainties in 
Experimental Results,” Expl. Thermal Fluid Sci., 1, pp. 3-17. 
 8
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
清華大學洪英輝 1
出國參加 2007 年國際電子構裝會議 
(InterPACK 2007)報告 
洪英輝 
國立清華大學動力機械工程學系 
電話: (03) 5742915 
傳真: (03) 5722840 
 
敝人很榮幸地經由國科會補助赴加拿大溫哥華參加 2007 年國際電子構裝會議
(InterPACK 2007)。此次開會地點在加拿大溫哥華 Westin Bayshore Resort and Marina，而
會期為 7 月 08 日至 7 月 12 日，此次會議是由美國機械工程師學會(ASME)與日本機械工
程師學會(JSME)合辦。此會議之主要目標乃在促進國際上有關微電子、光電、微奈米機
電(MEMS/NEMS)構裝科技發展製程與應用之研究與工程實務知識與經驗交流。在此次會
議中總共有 12 個技術群(Technical Tracks: Advanced Packaging, Manufacturing Test, 
Materials and Processes, MEMS and MEMS Packaging, Modeling and Simulation, 
Nanotechnology and NEMS, Reliability, Thermal Management, Education, Electrical Issues in 
Packaging, Photonics and Electro-Optics, and Technology Sectors)，總共 67 個技術研討分組
(Advanced Wafer Level Packing, Advanced Characterization Methodologies, Thermal 
Management for Advanced Packaging, Polymers for Advanced Packaging, Modeling and 
Analysis for Advanced Packaging, Bio/Organic Devices and Packaging, Characterization and 
Reliability, MEMS Packaging, Thermal Phenomena in MEMS, Mechanical Effects in MEMS, 
MEMS Processing and Fabrication, Models for Thermomechanical Reliability, Interconnect 
Reliability Models, Device Level Thermal Models, Package Level Thermal Models, Heat Sinks, 
Fans, Plates and Fins, Investigation of Heat Transfer Mechanisms I, Investigation of Heat 
Transfer Mechanisms II, Novel/Alternative Electronics Cooling Concepts and Technologies, 
Micro/Nano-scale Heat Transfer in Electronics Equipment I, Thermal 
Modeling/Characterization of Electronic Systems I, Micro/Nano-Scale Heat Transfer in 
Electronic Equipment II, Thermal Modeling/Characterization of Electronic Systems II, Thermal 
Interface Materials and Spreaders, Heat Sink Modeling and Characterization I, Heat 
Pipe/Thermosyphons for Electronics Cooling I, Data Center Thermal Management I, Heat Sink 
Modeling and Characterization II, Heat Pipe/Thermosyphons for Electronic Cooling II, Data 
Center Thermal Management II, Data Center Thermal Management III, Liquid Cooling of 
Electronic Systems, Low Temperature Refrigeration Cooling Technologies, Solid State Power 
Generation and Cooling for Electronic Packaging and Systems I, Two-Phase Heat Transfer in 
Electronics Cooling I, Data Center Thermal Management IV, Cooling Technologies for High 
Heat Flux Applications, Solid State Power Generation and Cooling for Electronic Packaging 
清華大學洪英輝 3
Cooling for Electronic Packaging and Systems I) (2) IPACK2007-33281 A Semi-Empirically 
Thermal Optimization for Heat Sink/TEC Assemblies with Various External Thermal 
Resistances (WEDNESDAY 07/11 2:00 – 3:30am; TM19 Solid State Power Generation and 
Cooling for Electronic Packaging and Systems III) (3) IPACK2007-33277 Heat Transfer 
Characteristics for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk with Round Jet Array Impingement 
(THURSDAY 07/12 9:00 - 10:30am; TM20 Convection Cooling in Electronic Equipment) 及 
(4) IPACK2007-33278 Fluid Flow Behavior for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk with Round 
Jet Array Impingement (THURSDAY 07/12 9:00 - 10:30am; TM20 Convection Cooling in 
Electronic Equipment)。此次兩位博士班學生上台用英文發表論文的表現皆可圈可點，是
值得讚賞的。另外，在發表論文與參與會議期間，多次與許多位國際著名的學者專家(如
日本的 Professors W. Nakayama and M. Ishizuka，美國的 Professors A. Bar-Cohen，C. 
Amon，S. C. Yao，新加坡的 A. O. Tay 及 IBM 的 Dr. Roger Schmidt 等人)交換各國在電子
構裝技術之研究心得，收穫非常多。 
敝人是此次會議籌備十五位國際連絡委員會委員之一，此委員會成員如下：Prof. 
Carlos Altemani (Brazil), Prof. Adam Skorek (Canada), Prof. Yuqin Gu (China), Prof. Ricky S. 
W. Lee (China), Dr. Bernard Courtois (France), Dr. Rolf Aschenbrenner (Germany), Prof. 
Soon-Bok Lee (Korea), Prof. Kyung W. Paik (Korea), Prof. Andrew A. O. Tay (Singapore), 
Prof. John Pang (Singapore), Prof. Andrew Y. H. Hung (Taiwan), Dr. David Whalley (United 
Kingdom), Dr. Johan Liu (Sweden), Dr. Gordana Popovic (Austria), and Dr. Josef Brossner 
(Austria) 。在會議中，敝人亦獲下次 InterPACK’09 大會主席邀請擔任 InterPACK’2009 
Conference 的國際籌備與連絡委員；而且將負責數個論文發表 Sessions 的規劃、邀稿、審
稿、與發表事宜。上述總總皆是對敝人在過去二十多年來在『電子構裝技術』研究上之
肯定，敝人深感無上之光榮，必當會積極且全力以赴地參與此相當重要的國際會議與委
員會；同時，在下次 InterPACK’09 會議時儘可能地邀請國內從事電子構裝技術研發的學
者專家參加，以提昇國內在此方面研發水準與國際上之聲望。 
此次整整五天的會議中，敝人除了全程參加許多場相關論文研討專題討論與專題演
講外, 還與許多中外的學者碰面且交換研究資料。有關研究資料的收集，敝人帶回了包括
此次會議所有論文及短期課程之光碟各壹片，將可供作國內相關同好研究及教學上之寶
貴參考。 
總之，敝人能夠參加此次國際電子構裝會議之最大收穫，乃是能與來自世界各地的
學者專家相聚在一起彼此交換研究心得；同時也瞭解了目前電子構裝技術各相關領域的
發展，進而擴展出自己的研究新視野及新觀念了。另外值得一提的，乃是在這次的會議
裡，國內學術界與產業界研發人員、學者及研究生參加人數十多人，較上次 InterPACK’05
參與人數多些。近年來喜見國內研究生參加人數踴躍 (清華大學動機系即有三位研究生參
加發表論文)，此現象反應出：學界年輕學子參加國際研討會慾望增加，希望能吸收難得
的國際研討會經驗。當然，敝人還是再次呼籲國內主要補助單位如國科會能再多增加支
持補助國內擬與會的學者專家(尤其是研究生)，讓更多國內產官學界優秀的研發專家學者
Proceedings of InterPACK’07
         International Electronic Packaging Technical Conference and Exhibition 
July 8-12, 2007, Vancouver, B.C, CANADA 
 
  IPACK2007-33285
 
 
Thermal Optimal Design for Heat Sinks or Heat Sink/TEC Assemblies 
in a Ducted Flow 
 
T. Y. Wu, M. C. Wu, J. T. Horng, S. F. Chang, P. L. Chen and Y. H.Hung  
Department of Power Mechanical Engineering 
National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan 
Email: yhhung@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
A series of experimental studies on the heat transfer 
characteristics from heat sinks or Heat Sink/TEC assemblies in 
a ducted flow have been performed.    Their effects on heat 
transfer characteristics in ducted flow have been systematically 
explored.  From the results, new performance correlations of 
the temperature difference (∆T) and terminal voltage (V) of the 
TEC modules are proposed.    Besides, two new correlations 
of steady-state average Nusselt number and external thermal 
resistance in terms of relevant influencing parameters for 
confined ppf heat sinks in a ducted flow are also proposed, 
respectively.  The statistical sensitivity analysis of ANOVA 
F-test is employed to estimate the contributions of relevant 
parameters.  Furthermore, a series of RSM models for 
evaluating heat transfer characteristics including average 
Nusselt number, average external thermal resistance and 
 T-T ac  are established.  A Sequential Quadratic 
Programming with multi-starting-point method is successfully 
employed to automatically and efficiently seek a globally 
optimal thermal performance.  An optimal design of HS/TEC 
assemblies under both COP ≥ 2 and pumping power limitation 
larger than 30 W can be achieved with a reduction of 75% on 
thermal resistance. 
 
Keywords: HS/TEC Assembly, Ducted Flow, Thermal 
Resistance, COP, Pumping Power, Sensitivity Analysis, 
Response Surface Methodology, Sequential Quadratic 
Programming, Thermal Optimal Design. 
 
NOMENCLATURE 
A Area (m2) 
DF Degree of Freedom 
h Heat Transfer Coefficient,  )/( 2 CmW °⋅
I TEC Current (A) 
k Thermal Conductivity,  )/( 2 CmW °⋅
Lc   Characteristic Length of Heat Sink Base 
Nu Local Nusselt Number 
MS Mean Square 
P Input Power (W) 
Q Pumping Power (W) 
q Heat Flux (W/m2) 
R Resistance (Ω) 
SS Sum of Square 
t Thickness of Fin (m), Time (min) 
T Temperature (oC) 
TEC Thermoelectric Cooler 
V Terminal Voltage (V) 
 
Greek Symbol 
△ Difference  
α Seebeck Coefficient (V/K) 
ε Emissivity 
ρ Contribution  
 
Subscript 
－ Average 
 
Subscripts 
a Air 
b Base 
c Cold Side of a TEC 
ext External 
h Hot Side of a TEC 
r Radiation 
S Steady State 
t total 
te TEC 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The trend of smaller active portion of the die and higher 
heat dissipation leads higher power densities.  This forces the 
thermal designer to utilize more efficient air-cooled heat sinks 
and lead the limitation of air-cooled heat sink to be reaching.  
Recently, thermoelectric coolers (TEC) are regarded as 
potential solutions for extending the cooling limits of air-cooled 
heat sinks.  To improve the thermal performance of air-cooled 
heat sinks on the package, a heat sink integrated with TEC 
(HS/TEC assembly) gives an effective negative thermal 
resistance in the thermal path of compact packages. 
Although the principle of thermoelectricity dates back to 
the discovery of the Seebeck effect in 1821, there was little 
practical application until the middle 1950s.  With the 
introduction of semiconductor thermoelements by Ioffe and 
co-workers [1], the improvements of thermoelectric material 
made possible the development of practical thermoelectric 
refrigeration devices.  The application of thermoelectric module 
to cool electronics was discussed by Kraus [2].  Buist [3] 
proposed a universal thermoelectric design curves.  In 2000, 
Chu R. C. et al. [4] investigated the thermal performance of 
multi-chip module integrated with or without thermoelectric 
coolers. They demonstrated the limitations of allowable power 
consumption because of the poor COP and the lower figure of 
 
 1
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
( ) ( )ab
cv
bab
cv
TT
q
ATT
Qh −=−=                    (4) 
 
aab
ccv
kTT
Lq
)-(
 = 
k
hL =Nu
a
c                      (5) 
 
 
k
Lh
 = Nu
a
c                                (6) 
 
t
ab
ext Q
T-T=R                              (7) 
 
t
ab
ext
Q
T-T=R                             (8) 
 
where Lc is the characteristic length of heat sink base.  Tb and 
Ta represent the local temperature at heat sink base and air 
temperature at channel inlet, respectively. 
(II) HS/TEC assemblies: The steady-state local and 
average overall thermal resistances of HS/TEC assemblies are 
evaluated by step similar to that of heat sinks, with difference 
that the heat flux meter is inserting between TEC and heat sink 
base for directly measuring the heat dissipation from heat sink, 
and can be defined as follows: 
 
c
ac
th Q
TTR -=                              (9) 
c
ac
th
Q
TTR -=                             (10) 
where Qc is the heat pumping capacity at cold side, which 
equals total heat flow into test assembly in steady-state.  Tc 
denotes the cold side temperature of TEC. 
 
Test Matrix 
An effective method so-called “design of experiments 
(DOE)” is employed to perform experimental investigations in 
the present study.  DOE is a systematic statistical approach to 
explore the relationships between design variables and thermal 
performance accomplished with the minimal number of 
experimental runs.  The parameters of these two cases are 
listed in Table 1.  By employing the method of design of 
experiments (DOE), the total experiments were effectively 
reducing to 17 cases and 27 cases, respectively. 
 
Sensitivity Analysis 
The analysis of variance (ANOVA) is an appropriate 
procedure for testing the sensitivity analysis.  The purpose of 
ANOVA is to test differences for significant differences 
between means.  This is accomplished by analyzing the 
variance by partitioning the total variance into the component 
that is due to true random error and the components that are due 
to differences between means.  The following equation is the 
F-test statistic for the hypothesis of no differences in treatment 
means, 
 
E
treatments
E
treatments
treatments MS
MS
/SS
/SSF ==
E
treatment
DF
DF
    ( 1 1 ) 
 
where SStreatments represents the sum of squares due to 
treatments, SSE is called the sum of squares due to error, DF 
represents the degrees of freedom.  If the F-test value Ftreatment 
> Fα (Fα means the appropriate upper-tail percentage point of 
Fα distribution, generally α=0.05), it could concluded that there 
are differences in the treatment means and the hypothesis of no 
differences should be rejected.  That is the treatment means 
have significant effects.  It could also obtain a probability 
P-value for the F-test value.  If the probability P-value < 
0.0001, that means there is only a 0.01% chance that a "Model 
F-Value" this large could occur due to noise.  Values of "Prob 
> F" less than 0.05 indicate model factors are significant.  
Furthermore, the sensitivity of model factor could 
quantitatively determine by factor contribution.  The 
evaluation of factor contribution (ρ) is expressed in the 
following. 
%100×=
T
Etreatment
treatment SS
MS-SS
ρ              (12) 
where SST represents the total sum of squares, i.e, SST 
=SStreatment + SSE. 
 
Uncertainty Analysis 
Uncertainty analysis is extensively used in the 
experimental planning stage to help design the apparatus and 
data reduction procedures.  The method is using the standard 
single-sample uncertainty analysis recommended by Kline and 
McClintock [15] and Moffat [16].  According to the 
uncertainty analysis, for the ducted flow, the uncertainties of 
steady-state average convective heat flux, steady-state average 
heat transfer coefficient, steady-state channel Reynolds number, 
steady-state average Nusselt number, steady-state average 
external thermal resistance and steady-state average overall 
thermal resistance are 1.2%, 2.8%, 1.1%, 2.8%, 3.0% and 6.4%, 
respectively. 
 
Table 1 Range of Experimental Parameters 
(a) Heat Sinks 
 
Parameter Parametric Ranges
Wc(mm) 82
Qt,s (W) 10, 20, 30, 40, 50
         (W/m2) 2069, 4144, 5989, 7965, 9946
Hs/Hc 0.43, 0.5, 0.62, 0.76, 1
ReD 6600, 11000, 16000, 19000, 27000
Ui (m/s) 2, 3.5, 5, 6.5, 8
scv,q
 
 (b) HS/TEC Assemblies 
  
Parameter Parametric Ranges
Wc(mm) 82
Qc,s (W) 10, 20, 30, 40, 50
I (A) 2, 4, 6, 8, 10
Hs/Hc 0.43, 0.5, 0.62, 0.76, 1
ReD 7300, 12000, 18000, 21000, 30000
Ui (m/s) 2, 3.5, 5, 6.5, 8  
 
PERFORMANCE TESTING OF THERMOELECTRIC 
COOLERS 
(A) Determination of Performance Parameters  
The basic operational characteristics of a TEC module 
include the temperature difference between hot side and cold 
side (∆T), heat pumping capacity at the cold side (Qc), input 
current (I), and terminal voltage of TEC (V).  The equation 
defines the net heat pumping capacity is 
 
TKRIITαQ cc ∆-2/-=
2                    (13) 
 
The terminal voltage which equals to sum of the Seebeck 
voltages and resistive voltage drop is given by .  
To get the maximum heat pumping capacity, the current which 
satisfies the condition dQ
IRTαV +∆=
c/dI=0 is I=Imax=αTc/R, and Qc 
 3
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
HEAT TRANSFER CHARACTERISTICS OF HEAT 
SINKS AND HEAT SINK/TEC ASSEMBLIES 
The heat transfer characteristics include transient-/ 
steady-state local and average Nusselt numbers and external 
thermal resistance for heat sinks and heat sink/TEC assemblies.  
The parameters controlled for heat sinks in a ducted flow are 
the steady-state heat load (Qt,s), the ratio of heat sink height to 
channel height (Hs/Hc) and channel Reynolds number (ReD), 
and these for for the HS/TEC assemblies are the steady-state 
pumping heat capacity (Qc,s), the input current of TEC (I), the 
ratio of HS/TEC assembly height to channel height (Hs/Hc) and 
channel Reynolds number (ReD). 
 
Transient Heat Transfer Characteristics 
 (I) Effects of steady-state heat load or pumping heat 
capacity: The experimental results reveal that the transient local 
and average Nusselt number are almost independent of the 
steady-state heat load or pumping heat capacity. 
(II) Effects of Hs/Hc ratio: Figure 3 exhibits transient 
distribution of local Nusselt numbers on the heat sink for the 
cases of Ui =5 m/s and HS/TEC assemblies for I= 6 A and Ui 
=4.93 m/s at x/Ws=0.5, y/Ls=0.5 with various Hs/Hc ratios.  
The results exhibit that the transient local Nusselt number 
increases with increasing Hs/Hc ratio. The highest thermal 
performance occurs at fully confined case, because more air 
flow mass through the heat sink at the same inlet flow velocity.  
The similar trend is also found for transient average Nusselt 
number. 
(III) Effects of Reynolds number: Figure 4 displays the 
transient distribution of local Nusselt numbers on the heat sink 
for the cases of Hs/Hc=0.62 and HS/TEC assemblies for I= 6 A 
and Hs/Hc=0.62 at x/Ws=0.5, y/Ls=0.5 with various Reynolds 
numbers.  The results reveal that the transient local Nusselt 
number increases with increasing Reynolds number.  The 
similar trend is also found for transient average Nusselt 
number. 
(IV) Effecst of input TEC current: The experimental 
results manifest that the input current of TEC has insignificant 
effect on the transient Nusselt number. 
 
Steady-state Heat Transfer Characteristics 
(I) Effects of steady-state heat load or pumping heat 
capacity: The experimental results reveal that the steady state 
local and average Nusselt numbers are almost independent of 
the steady-state average convective heat flux or pumping heat 
capacity.  In addition, the local and average external thermal 
resistances have the similar trend. 
(II) Effects of Hs/Hc ratio: Figure 5 shows the streamwise 
steady state distribution of local Nusselt numbers for heat sinks 
and HS/TEC assemblies on the heat sink with various Hs/Hc 
ratios.  The local Nusselt number is higher in upstream, and 
the results indicate that the steady state Nusselt numbers 
increase with increasing Hs/Hc ratio, because more air flow 
mass through the heat sink at the same inlet flow velocity.  
Besides, according to the experimental data, the distribution of 
Nusselt number in the spanwise is symmetric.  The similar 
trend is also found for steady-state average Nusselt number.  
Figure 6 exhibits the local and average external thermal 
resistance on the HS/TEC assembly with various Hs/Hc ratios, 
which shows the highest thermal performance also occurs at 
fully confined case. 
 (III) Effects of Reynolds number: Figure 7 reveals the 
streamwise steady-state distribution of local Nusselt numbers 
on the heat sink and HS/TEC assemblies with various Reynolds 
numbers, respectively.  The results reveal that the steady state 
Nusselt numbers increase with increasing Reynolds number.  
The similar trend is also found for steady-state average Nusselt 
number, and the local and average external thermal resistances 
on the HS/TEC assembly which show in Fig. 8. 
(IV) Effects of input TEC current: The experimental 
results manifest that the input current of TEC has insignificant 
effect on steady-state Nusselt number.  The similar effect also 
exhibits on the local and average external thermal resistance of 
HS/TEC assemblies. 
 
Fig. 3 Effects of Hs/Hc Ratio on Transient Nusselt Number for 
heat sink and HS/TEC Assembly 
 
Fig. 4 Effects of Reynolds Number on Transient Nusselt 
Number 
 
To explore the relationship among steady state average 
Nusselt number, Hs/Hc and channel Reynolds number for heat 
sinks, a generalized correlation is proposed by using a least 
standard deviation method [9]: 
 
550
D
0.77
s Re)/(4710=Nu .cs HH.                
(28)
 
 
The maximum deviation and average deviations from the 
experimental data are 7.0% and 4.3%, respectively.  The 
relationship among xtR e , Hs/Hc ratio and Reynolds number are 
also explored, and a proposed correlation is: 
 
550-
D
0.77- Re)/)((0920=
/
.
cs
c
H
bac
ext HH
H
L
.
AkH
R
      
( 2 9 )
 
 
The maximum deviation and average deviations from the 
experimental data are 7.6% and 4.4%, respectively.  The 
 5
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
assemblies include pumping heat capacity, the input current of 
TEC, the ratio of HS/TEC assembly height to channel height 
(Hs/Hc) and channel Reynolds number (ReD), and the symbols 
for them are A, B, C, and D, respectively. 
 
(B) Model Establishment by Response Surface Methodology 
(I) Central composite design: To explore the 
relationships between design variables and responses, the 
3-factor and 4-factor CCD experiments were conducted for heat 
sinks and HS/TEC assemblies, respectively.     
(II) ANOVA F-test: The ANOVA for the steady state 
average Nusselt number and average external thermal 
resistance are conducted.  To screen out the insignificant 
factor, F-test, is applied on the analysis of experiment.  For 
heat sinks, it indicates that significant factors for average 
Nusselt number are B (Hs/Hc) and C (ReD), while those for 
average external thermal resistance are B (Hs/Hc) and C (Ui); 
for HS/TEC assemblies, significant factors for average Nusselt 
number as well as average external thermal resistance are C 
(Hs/Hc) and D (ReD), and for COP are A (Qc,s) and B (I).  The 
conclusion is consistent with the steady-state data reported in 
the above section. 
(III) Sensitivity analysis: According to the results in 
ANOVA, a sensitivity analysis for design factors was 
performed and shown in Fig. 11.  For heat sinks, the results 
manifest that sNu  and extR  are more significantly affected by 
either one of Hs/Hc ratio and channel Reynolds number (or inlet 
flow velocity) in the present parametric studies.  Among them, 
the channel Reynolds number (or inlet flow velocity) has the 
most significant effect.  For HS/TEC assemblies, the sNu  
and extR  are more significantly affected by either one of Hs/Hc 
ratio and channel Reynolds number;  the Tca and COP are 
more significantly affected by either one of TEC current and 
pumping heat capacity.   
 (IV) Quadratic RSM model: To improve the accuracy 
and efficiency of the real design optimum, the less importance 
design factors are screened out in the RSM model.  Then the 
regression coefficients of the reduced model can be estimated 
with the observed data from the CCD experiments by the 
method of least-squares.  The resulting response surface 
quadratic model equations for the steady-state average Nusselt 
number, average external thermal resistance and  T-T ac can be 
finally obtained: 
 
85337+Re0240+)/(37186+
)Re/(0620+Re10×294-)/(91237=Nu
D
D
2
D
7-2
s
..HH.
HH..HH.
cs
cscs
      (30) 
 
]10×141+Re10×269+
)/(10×091+)Re/(10×142+
Re10×61+)/(10×[5.66=
3-
D
8-
3-
D
7-
2
D
1224-
..
HH.HH.
.HH
H
L
Ak/H
R
cscs
cs
c
H
bac
ext
        (31) 
 
ccextextc
extcextac
IQQRIRQI
RQIRTT
2-
25-22
10×12.1-89.0+31.7+.500+.787-
14.20- 10×36.7+33.0+88.11-92.6=-
    (32) 
 
(V) Model validation: The accuracies of the quadratic 
RSM models have been evaluated by comparing the predicted 
response values to the experimental data.  For sNu , the 
maximum and average deviations are 12.6% and 3.9%, 
respectively;  for extR , the maximum and average deviations 
are 11.1% and 3.6%, respectively;  the maximum deviations 
for COP are 17.0% and the maximum deviation for　Tca is less 
than 1 oC.  The comparisons between experimental data and 
correlation show a satisfactory agreement.  Since the explicitly 
expressed quadratic model is close enough to the actual system, 
the optimal design can be found by applying the numerical 
optimization algorithms. 
 
(C) Numerical Optimiz
predicted values by quadratic RSM model or empirical 
ation 
  X = {A, B, C, D } 
XU
 
A Sequential Quadratic Programming (SQP) with 
multi
 
Case: Minimize 　Tca (X)     
Subject to  A ≥ 30 W, COP (X) ≥ 2, XL ≤ X ≤ 
-starting-point method is successfully employed to 
efficiently seek a globally optimal thermal performance.  
When both COP and pumping power limitation are taken into 
considerations, an optimal design can be obtained without the 
laborious trial-and-error procedure.  Thus, the optimal Tca 
(2.2 oC) or thermal performance improvement (75%) under 
both COP constraint (COP ≥ 2) and of pumping power 
limitation (Qc ≥ 30 W) with boundary limits of other design 
variables was found, as shown in Fig. 12.  With this design 
optimization method, optimal designs for heat sinks and 
HS/TEC assemblies in a ducted flow are successfully explored 
with design constraints.  The present optimal design shows 
that a heat sink integrated with TEC can improve thermal 
performance for traditional air-cooled heat sinks. 
 
% Contribution
0 20 40 60 80 100
Fa
ct
or
s
A
B
C
Nu
Rext
  
(a) Heat Sinks 
 
16%
82.7%
% Contribution
0 20 40 60 80 100
Fa
ct
or
s
A
B
C
D
Rext
Tc-Ta
COP
  
(b) HS/TEC Assemblies 
Fig. 11 Sensitivity Ana sis of Design Variables 
 
ONCLUSIONS 
/steady-state local and average Nusselt 
(2) orrelations of steady-state average Nusselt 
 
ly
 
C
(1) The transient-
numbers for heat sinks and HS/TEC assemblies are more 
significantly affected by ReD and Hs/Hc as compared with 
Qt,s (or Qc,s) and I.  Similar trend can be found for 
external thermal resistance of heat sinks and HS/TEC 
assemblies. 
Two new c
number and external thermal resistance for confined ppf 
heat sinks in a ducted flow are proposed. The maximum 
and average deviations of the results predicted by these 
correlations from the experimental data are 10.6% and 
5.5%, respectively.   
 7
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
Proceedings of InterPACK’07
         International Electronic Packaging Technical Conference and Exhibition 
July 8-12, 2007, Vancouver, B.C, CANADA 
 
IPACK2007-33281 
  
 
A Semi-Empirically Thermal Optimization for Heat Sink/TEC Assemblies 
with Various External Thermal Resistances 
 
M. C. Wu, T. Y. Wu, J. T. Horng, S. F. Chang, P. L. Chen and Y. H.Hung 
Department of Power Mechanical Engineering 
National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan 
Email: yhhung@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
An effective semi-empirical method that combines 
thermal network models and empirical correlations for 
exploring the thermal performance of heat sinks and HS/TEC 
assemblies under different external thermal resistances is 
successfully established.  A series of parametric studies, 
including the effects of external thermal resistance, input 
current of TEC and pumping heat capacity, on thermal 
performance improvements of HS/TEC assemblies have 
been performed. The Response Surface Methodology (RSM) 
is applied to establish explicit models of the thermal 
performance of HS/TEC assemblies under various external 
thermal resistances in terms of the design variables through 
statistical fitting method.  Furthermore, the numerical 
optimization results for HS/TEC assemblies under different 
constraints are obtained.  With constrained optimal designs 
of HS/TEC assemblies, the HS/TEC assemblies can provide 
excellent thermal performance improvements on (1) the 
reduction of thermal resistance, (2) the enhancement of 
module heat loads and (3) the improvement of external 
thermal resistance.   
Keywords: HS/TEC Assembly, Thermal Resistance, COP, 
pumping heat capacity, Response Surface Methodology, 
Central Composite Design. 
 
NOMENCLATURE 
A Area (m2) 
DF Degree of Freedom 
H Height (m) 
I TEC Current (A) 
k Thermal Conductivity (W/m oC) 
Lc   Characteristic Length of Heat Sink Base 
Nu Local Nusselt Number 
MS Mean Square 
P Input Power (W) 
Q Pumping Power (W) 
q Heat Flux (W/m2) 
R Resistance (Ω) 
SS Sum of Squares 
t Thickness of Fin (m); Time (min) 
T Temperature (oC) 
V Terminal Voltage (V) 
W Width (m) 
 
Greek Symbol 
△ Difference  
α Seebeck Coefficient (V/K) 
γ  Thermal Performance Improvement, defined by 
Eqs.(24) through (26) 
ρ Contribution 
 
Superscript 
－ Average 
 
Subscripts 
a Air 
b Base 
c Cold Side of TEC; Channel 
ext External 
h Hot Side of TEC 
s Heat Sink 
t Total 
te TEC 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The demand for high execution speed and memory 
capacity for modern computers results in an increasing 
circuit density per unit chip and high power dissipation per 
unit volume.  Consequently, thermal management becomes 
an increasingly important element of electronic product 
design.  To improve the thermal performance of air-cooled 
heat sinks on the package, a heat sink integrated with TEC 
(HS/TEC assembly) gives an effective negative thermal 
resistance in the thermal path of compact packages.  
Therefore, a HS/TEC assembly can provide three purposes 
for the improvement of air-cooled heat sinks, that is, to: (1) 
reduce thermal resistance at a given module heat load and 
external heat exchanger, (2) increase module heat loads at a 
given chip temperature level and external heat exchange and 
(3) decrease external heat exchanger requirements (small 
heat sink, less airflow, etc). 
Although the principle of thermoelectricity dates back to 
the discovery of the Peltier effect in 1834, there was little 
practical application until the middle 1950s.  With the 
introduction of semiconductor thermoelements by Ioffe and 
co-workers [1], the improvements of thermoelectric material 
made possible the development of practical thermoelectric 
refrigeration devices.  The application of thermoelectric 
module to cool electronics was discussed by Kraus [2].  Buist 
[3] proposed a universal thermoelectric design curves.  In 
2000, Chu et al. [4] investigated the thermal performance of 
 
 1
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
component that is due to true random error and the 
components that are due to differences between means.  
The following equation is the F-test statistic for the 
hypothesis of no differences in treatment means, 
 
E
treatments
E
treatments
treatments MS
MS
/SS
/SSF ==
E
treatment
DF
DF
      (3) 
 
where SStreatments represents the sum of squares due to 
treatments, SSE is called the sum of squares due to error, DF 
represents the degrees of freedom.  If the F-test value 
Ftreatment > Fα (Fα means the appropriate upper-tail percentage 
point of Fα distribution, generally α=0.05), it could be 
concluded that there are differences in the treatment means 
and the hypothesis of no differences should be rejected.  
That is the treatment means have significant effects.  It 
could also obtain a probability P-value for the F-test value.  
If the probability P-value < 0.0001, that means there is only a 
0.01% chance that a "Model F-Value" this large could occur 
due to noise.  Values of "Prob > F" less than 0.05 indicate 
model factors are significant.  Furthermore, the sensitivity 
of model factor could quantitatively determine by factor 
contribution.  The evaluation of factor contribution (ρ) is 
expressed as follows: 
%100×=
T
Etreatment
treatment SS
MS-SS
ρ              (4) 
where SST represents the total sum of squares, i.e, SST 
=SStreatment + SSE. 
 
Table 1 Specifications of Heat Sink and TEC 
 
Heat Sink 
 
TEC 
Material AL6063 Couple Material Bi2Te3 
Ls (mm) 65.2 
Plate 
Material Ceramic 
Ws (mm) 75.5 Stage 1 
Hs (mm) 25 LT (mm) 62 
Hf (mm) 18 WT (mm) 62 
Lf (mm) 65.2 HT (mm) 4 
Sf (mm) 2.6 NT 127 
tf(mm) 0.37 Imax (A) 30 
Nf 36 Vmax (V) 15.4 
At(mm2) 93510 ∆Tmax (oC) 68 
At/Ab 19 Qmax (W) 266.7 
 
Table 2 Range of Experimental Parameters 
 
 
Uncertainty Analysis 
Uncertainty analysis is extensively used in the 
experimental planning stage to help design the apparatus and 
data reduction procedures.  The method is using the 
standard single-sample uncertainty analysis recommended by 
Kline and McClintock [14] and Moffat [15].  According to 
the uncertainty analysis, for the ducted flow, the 
uncertainties of external thermal resistance and overall 
thermal resistance are 3.0% and 6.4%, respectively. 
 
Heat Sink
TEC
Ta
Heater
Tc
Th
Rext
Ta
Th
Tc
Qc
PteTEC
(a) 
 
Ta
Tb
Heat Sink
Heater
Tb
QL
Ta
Rext
  (b) 
Fig. 3 Thermal Network Model for (a) HS/TEC Assembly (b) 
Heat Sink Only 
 
SEMI-EMPIRICALLY THERMAL ANALYSIS UNDER 
DIFFERENT EXTERNAL THERMAL RESISTANCES 
 
Theoretical Thermal Network Model 
A sketch of a thermal network model for a heat sink 
integrated with TEC is shown in Fig. 3.  The heat released 
from a heat element is absorbed by the cold side of a TEC 
and pumped to the hot side.  The pumped heat and the input 
power of the TEC are then dissipated to the ambient through 
a heat sink.  Note that the contact resistances between the 
interface of heat sink-TEC and the interface of TEC-stainless 
sheet are neglected.  The relevant parameters influencing 
thermal performance include the input current of TEC (I), the 
heat pumping capacity (Qc), and the external resistance of 
heat sinks (Rext). 
Parameter Parametric Range 
Wc (mm) 82 
Qc (W) 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 
I (A) 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 
Hs/Hc 0.43, 0.5, 0.62, 0.76, 1 
ReD 7300, 12000, 18000, 21000, 30000
Ui (m/s) 2, 3.5, 5, 6.5, 8 
The TEC hot side temperature is related to the cooling 
fluid temperature, Ta, by 
 
exttecah RPQTT ×)+(+=                    (5) 
 
where Ta represents the ambient temperature. The cold side 
temperature (Tc) can be calculated by 
 ( ) extcahc RIVQTTTTT ×++∆−=∆−=        ( 6 ) 
  
where ∆T is the temperature difference between Th and Tc.  
The coefficient of performance, COP, which is the ratio of 
the useful heat pumped to the input power of thermoelectric 
module (Pte, Pte =IV, where V is the terminal voltage in the 
thermoelectric module.), is given by: 
 
IVQPQCOP ctec // ==                     (7) 
 
For the present thermal network model with the TEC 
module, the given parameters are I, Qc, Rext and Ta.  There 
are still two unknowns, i.e., ∆T and V, needed for 
determining Tc and COP with given parameters such as I, Qc, 
Rext and Ta.  The performance equations of ∆T and V can be 
determined by the theoretical models or experimental 
measurement.  Then, Tc, Th, Pte and COP of the HS/TEC 
assembly can be obtained. 
Additionally, the comparable model for the heat sink 
without thermoelectric module is also plotted in Fig. 3, the 
equation governing the temperature of heat sink base for a 
specified heat load is 
 3
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
difference.  
(C) Method III 
Based on the present experimental data, new empirical 
correlations for ∆T and V can be obtained by using the least 
square method and expressed as 
 
CCextext
CextCext
IQAQRAIRA
QAIARAQAIARAT
987
654
2
3
2
2
2
1
+++
+++++=∆
   (22) 
 
CCextext
CextCext
IQBQRBIRB
QBIBRBQBIBRBV
987
654
2
3
2
2
2
1
+++
+++++=
   ( 2 3 ) 
 
where 
 
A1= 1.64; A2= -7.47╳10-2; A3= -2.27╳10-4; A4= 1.48;  
A5= 6.55; A6= -0.52; A7= 0.78; A8= 0.12; A9= 1.22╳10-2.   
B1= -8.39╳10-2; B2= -8.10╳10-3; B3= -1.15╳10-4;  
B4= -0.11; B5= 0.50; B6= -5.86╳10-3; B7= 0.16;  
B8= 6.25╳10-3; B9=-1.01╳10-3. 
 
For given parameters such as I, Qc, Rext and Ta, the 
unknown parameters of the TEC may be determined by using 
the empirical correlations of ∆T and V.  Comparisons of the 
predicted parameters such as ∆T, Tc, Th and COP evaluated 
by method III with the experimental data are made with the 
average deviations of 3.6%, 1.3%, 0.3% and 1.5%, 
respectively, and with the maximum deviations of 18.7%, 
5.8%, 2.2% and 13.1%, respectively.  Since the present 
method is good enough to predict the experimental data, the 
thermal network model combined with the empirical 
correlations, i.e., Eqs. (22) and (23), can be applied to the 
thermal design problem for the evaluation the benefit of the 
HS/TEC assembly, which will be introduced in the 
following. 
 
THERMAL PERFORMANCE EVALUATION UNDER 
DIFFERENT EXTERNAL THERMAL RESISTANCES 
 
A HS/TEC assembly has three purposes for the 
improvement of air-cooled heat sinks, that is, to: (1) reduce 
thermal resistance at a given module heat load and external 
heat exchanger, (2) increase module heat loads at a given 
chip temperature level and external heat exchanger, and (3) 
decrease external heat exchanger requirements (small heat 
sink, less airflow, etc).  To evaluate the benefit of the 
HS/TEC assembly, the thermal performance improvements, 
γ, compared against conventional air-cooled heat sinks are 
proposed.  That is,  
 
HS)(ePerformanc
HS)(ePerformanc-HS/TEC)(ePerformanc
=γ  (24) 
 
For the three purposes mentioned above, three different γ 
values are defined as follows: 
(1) For the reduction of thermal resistances: 
 
ab
cb
HSth
TECHSthHSth
TT
TT
R
RR
γ
-
-
=
-
=
,
/,,               (25) 
 
where Tc and Tb are estimated with operating at identical heat 
load (Qc=QL) and external thermal resistance. 
(2) For the enhancement of module heat loads: 
 
L
Lc
HS
HSTECHS
Q
QQ
Q
QQ
γ
-
=
-
= /                  (26) 
 
where Qc and QL are estimated with operating at the same 
chip side temperature level (Tc=Tb) and external thermal 
resistance. 
(3) For the improvement of external thermal resistances: 
 
HSext
HSextTECHSext
R
RR
γ
,
,/, -=                      (27) 
 
where Rext of heat sinks and HS/TEC assemblies are 
estimated with operating at the same chip side temperature 
level (Tc=Tb) and module heat loads (Qc=QL). 
 
Effects of Influencing Parameters 
The effects of influencing parameters, i.e. external 
thermal resistance, input current of TEC and pumping heat 
capacity, on thermal performance for HS/TEC assemblies are 
investigated and discussed.  The ranges of relevant 
parameters studied are Rext=0.25~0.55 oC/W, I=2~10 A and 
Qc=10~50 W.  In the present study, the case of Rext =0.33 
oC/W, I=6 A and Qc=30 W is chosen as the typical case. 
Effect of external thermal resistance.  Figure 4 shows 
the effect of Rext on γand COP of the HS/TEC assembly for 
the reduction of thermal resistance.  As can been seen, the 
γ decreases with increasing Rext; however, COP is almost 
independent of Rext.  The results reveal that the heat sink 
design is one of the key factors affecting the performance of 
HS/TEC assemblies.  To increase thermal performance 
improvements, it is desirable to design HS/TEC assemblies 
with external thermal resistance as small as possible.  The 
trend on the improvement of external thermal resistances is 
similar, but on the enhancement of module heat loads, γ 
increases with increasing Rext, and COP decreases with 
increasing Rext. 
 
Fig. 4 Effect of External Thermal Resistance on Reduction 
of Thermal Resistance and COP  
 
Effect of input TEC current.  The effects of TEC 
current on γ and COP for the reduction of thermal 
resistances are displayed in Fig. 5.  The γ firstly increases 
with increasing TEC current, reaches a maximum value, and 
then decreases with increasing TEC current.  The current 
that gives the maximum thermal performance improvement 
(98%) is about 8.7 A.  Moreover, COP decreases with 
increasing TEC current.  The tradeoffs between γ and COP 
are the major design problem.  The results imply that it has 
an optimal value if the COP is specified.  It has the similar 
trend for other two purposes,; the maximum γ (98%) is 
about 8.7 A for enhancement of module heat loads, and the 
maximum γ (111%) about 7.4 for improvement of external 
thermal resistances. 
Effect of pumping heat capacity.  Figure 6 exhibits the 
γ and COP on the HS/TEC assembly with various pumping 
 5
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
predicted response values to the experimental data. For the 
reduction of thermal resistance, the maximum deviation of γ 
and COP are 13.5% and 6.1%, respectively; for the 
enhancement of module heat loads, the maximum deviation 
of γ and COP are 15.8% and 10.8%, respectively; for the 
improvement of external thermal resistance, the maximum 
deviation of γ and COP are 9.7% and 2.1%, respectively.  
Since the explicitly expressed quadratic model is close 
enough to the actual system, the optimal design can be found 
by applying the numerical optimization algorithms. 
 
Table 5 Practical Ranges of Design Variables 
 
(a) Thermal Resistance Reduction 
Lowest Low Center High Highest
0.25 0.33 0.4 0.48 0.55
2 4 6 8 10
10 20 30 40 50C: Qc (W)
Coded Value of the Design Variables
Design Variables
A: Rext (
oC/W)
B: I  (A)
 
 
(b) Enhancement of Module Heat Loads 
Lowest Low Center High Highest
1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8
2 3 4 5 6
5 10 15 20 25C: ∆Tca (oC)
Coded Value of the Design Variables
Design Variables
A: Rext (
oC/W)
B: I  (A)
 
 
(c) Improvement of External Thermal Resistance 
Lowest Low Center High Highest
2 4 6 8 10
2 4 6 8 10
10 20 30 40 50C: Qc (W)
Coded Value of the Design Variables
Design Variables
A: ∆Tca (
oC)
B: I  (A)
 
 
  
(a) Thermal Resistance Reduction 
 
(b) Enhancement of Module Heat Loads 
 
(c) Improvement of External Thermal Resistance 
Fig.8 Sensitivity Analysis 
 
Numerical Optimization 
The constrained optimization problem is solved by the 
SQP method in this study.  Three optimal cases with 
different constraints are performed for the reduction of 
thermal resistance, the enhancement of module heat loads, 
and the improvement of external thermal resistances, 
respective. 
 
Case (I) Maximize γ at Qc ≥ 30 W with Boundary Limits of 
other Design Variables and COP Constraint 
Maximize: γ (X),  X = {A, B }            
Subject to:  C ≥ 30 W 
COP (X) ≥ 2 
         XL ≤ X ≤ XU 
 
When both the COP constraint and pumping power 
limitation are simultaneously taken into considerations, an 
optimal design can be automatically obtained without the 
laborious trial-and-error procedure (displayed in Fig. 9).  
Thus, the optimal thermal performance improvement (57%) 
under both COP constraint (COP ≥ 2) and of pumping power 
limitation (Qc=30 W) was found. 
 
 
Parameter Rext I Qc γ COP
Case (IV) Maximum 
γ at Qc ≥ 30 W
with Boundary Limits and COP ≥ 2 Constraints
Optimal Design 0.33 5.15 30 57% 2  
 
Fig. 9 Optimal Design for Thermal Resistance Reduction 
 
Case (II) Maximize γ with Boundary Limits of Design 
Variables and COP Constraint 
Maximize: γ (X) ,  X = { B, C }            
Subject to:  COP (X) ≥ 2 
         XL ≤ X ≤ XU 
 
As shown in Fig. 10, the design finds the maximum 
thermal performance improvement (146%) under a 
maximum acceptable COP of 2.  The COP constraint is 
satisfied with the design goals and the thermal performance 
improvements over the traditional air-cooled heat sinks are 
achieved at the same time. 
 
Case (III) Maximize γ with Boundary Limits of Design 
Variables and COP Constraint 
Maximize: 　 (X)       X = {A, B, }            
Subject to:  COP (X) ≥ 2 
         XL ≤ X ≤ XU 
 
The optimal thermal performance improvement (141%) 
under COP constraint (COP ≥ 2) was found and shown in Fig. 
11.  The results manifest that the values for design 
parameters are not only acceptable but also optimal for all the 
design objectives with compromises under multi-constraints.  
The present optimal design shows that HS/TEC assemblies 
 7
Copyright © 2007 by ASME
 1
ABSTRACT 
A series of experimental investigations on the studies 
related to fluid flow characteristics of a confined rotating 
Multi-Chip Module (MCM) disk with round air jet array 
impingement have been performed.  The relevant parameters 
influencing fluid flow characteristics include the ratio of jet 
separation distance to nozzle diameter (H/d), jet Reynolds 
number (Rej) and rotational Reynolds number (Rer).  The 
parametric ranges are Rej = 712 - 4087, Rer = 0 - 2906, H/d = 
0.83-14.4 and Z/d = 1-7.  The potential core lengths of all the 
nozzle jets increases with increasing jet Reynolds number or 
H/d ratio and decreases with increasing rotational Reynolds 
number.  New correlations of the ratio of potential core 
length to nozzle diameter at various nozzle jets in terms of 
relevant influencing parameters are proposed.   Furthermore, 
the strengths on both streamwise velocity and turbulence 
intensity increase with increasing Z/d ratio.  The turbulence 
intensity for the cases of jet array impingement growing up 
along the axial directions are significantly faster than the cases 
of single round jet impingement.  The jet array impingement 
has a higher momentum flux in the flow interaction region 
between two adjacent nozzles; accordingly, it can achieve a 
more uniform thermal performance as compared with the 
cases of single round jet impingement.  Near-surface fluid 
flow behavior including the streamwise velocity and 
turbulence intensity distributions can be employed to interpret 
the heat transfer characteristics for jet array impingement. 
 
Keywords: Round Jet Array Impingement, MCM Disk, Ratio 
of Jet Separation Distane to Nozzle Diameter, Jet Reynolds 
Number, Rotational Reynolds Number, Turbulence Intensity, 
Streamwise Velocity, Potential Core Length. 
ensity, Streamwise Velocity, Potential Core Length. 
 
NOMENCLATURE 
 
A Area of Disk (m2) 
D Diameter of the Disk (m) 
DH Hydraulic Diameter of Simulated Chips (m),2lw/(l+W) 
d Inside Diameter of Nozzle (m) 
H Separation Distance Between Nozzle and Disk (m) 
Lpc  Potential Core Length 
N Rotational Speed of the Disk (rpm), Nozzle Number 
Rej Jet Reynolds Number 
Rer Rotational Reynolds Number,(πND2/120υ)  
r  Radial Direction Length (m) 
Tu Turbulence Intensity 
jV  Mean Streamwise Velocity at Nozzle Exit (m/s) 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Impinging fluid jets are frequently used for intensive 
heating or cooling in various technological applications.  
However, achieving optimum heat transfer for a specific 
purpose is still a challenge because of a large number of 
parameters involved: nozzle shapes, mutual positions and 
configuration, their distance from the impingement wall, jet 
spacing, inclination and configuration of the impingement 
wall, the initial flow field and turbulence intensity in the jet, 
the surrounding near field boundary conditions, and so on.  
In general, multiple impinging jets are used to obtain an 
enhanced heat and mass transfer on a target surface.  It is 
because of this reason impinging jets have been widely used in 
many industrial applications such as cooling of hot steel plates, 
tempering of glass plate, annealing of metal sheets, drying of 
papers and films, deicing of aircraft systems, gas turbine blade 
cooling.  Recently, jet impingement cooling has been applied 
to electronic devices in order to meet the demand of 
compactness and high power consumption. 
With advances in very large scale integration, circuit 
heat dissipation has become an increasingly important 
consideration in the design and packaging of both single chip 
and multi-chip module (MCM).  One option for dissipating 
large chip heat fluxes involves the uses of jet impingement.  
As to the use of impinging jet for component cooling in 
modern engineering devices is well-established practice.  The 
principal virtues of this method of cooling are the high heat 
transfer rates attainable relative to non-impinging flows.  In 
recent years, most of the leading manufacturers of computers 
and microelectronics have begun to develop the technology 
and packaging strategies needed to insert multichip modules 
Proceedings of InterPACK’07
         International Electronic Packaging Technical Conference and Exhibition 
July 8-12, 2007, Vancouver, B.C, CANADA
 
 
           IPACK2007-33278 
 
Fluid Flow Behavior for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk 
with Round Jet Array Impingement 
 
C.J. Fang, C. Y. Lee, C. H. Peng, T. W. Lin and Y. H. Hung 
Department of Power Mechanical Engineering 
National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan 
Email: yhhung@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
 3
(B) MCM Target Block.  The air jet generated from the 
air jet chamber impinges normally onto the center of a heated 
MCM target block.  A cylindrical heated target block of 80 
mm diameter is positioned under the bottom surface of the air 
chamber.  The schematic of the components of this heated 
MCM target block is shown in Fig.3.  The MCM test block 
has a diameter of 80 mm and 85 mm thick.  The block is 
composed of three layers.  The top layer is the simulated 
MCM, which is made by a 0.76 mm thick alumina plate 
(Al2O3) with a diameter of 78 mm.  A 3×5 array of simulated 
heating chips were flush printed on the alumina surface, and 
the chip size is 6 mm×5 mm.  The range of voltages, which 
can be applied to each simulated chip having a 299-301Ω 
resistance, is 0-140V.  The chip heat flux can be controlled 
with changing the voltage applied on the simulated chip.  For 
the test plate, there are 17 calibrated T-type thermocouples, 
which have the diameter of 0.08 mm, on the MCM surface 
installed for measuring the local chip temperatures of the 
MCM disk surface.   
Besides, the middle layer is a 2 cm thick balsa slab, 
which is epoxied on the backside of the alumina plate to 
inhibit conductive heat losses from the chips.  At the 
backside of the balsa slab, there has one thermocouple 
installed to evaluate the lateral conductive heat losses.  In the 
lateral bakelite, there is also a thermocouple installed to 
evaluated the conductive heat loss.  The bottom layer (i.e. the 
third layer), epoxied on the backside of balsa slab, is a 2 cm 
thick balsa slab.  Fine holes are drilled through the balsa 
wood and the bakelite to allow the passage of chip leads and 
thermocouples.  There are a total of 19 calibrated 
thermocouples installed for local chip temperature 
measurements of the test block in the present experiments. 
In addition, the MCM test target block is placed on a 
programmable motor-driven three-dimensional (3-D) 
precision stage controller.  The 3-D stage controller is used 
to precisely adjust the position of the test target surface and 
the jet separation distance between nozzle exit (or 
confinement plate) and test target surface.  The minimum 
movement for position control of the test target surface with 
this system is estimated to be 10 µm.  Moreover, the 
horizontal of the test target surface is measured with a four-
point alignment level (Model: CIC-39381, accuracy ±0.2°) 
and adjusted by four screw-driven legs of a flat table, which 
supports the 3-D stage controller. 
 
Fig.2  Schematic of Confined Round Jet Array Chamber and 
Nozzle 
Rotating Facility.  The heated MCM disk assembly can 
be directly mounted on the spindle of the platform to rotate 
freely.  The spindle is driven by an 0.5 HP d.c. motor.   
Furthermore, the heated disk assembly is able to move in 
vertical direction to control the separation distance driven by a 
step motor.  The body of platform is a 3-level structure 
supported by four posts standing at its four corners.  The 
upper and lower levels are end plates to hold the four posts in 
position.  The altitude of the center level where a rotational 
mandrel is attached to is controllable to give the desired 
position of the rotational disk.   Limiting switches are 
equipped to protect the movement of the center level from 
collision with other components.   
There is a 20-channel slip ring located at the lower end of 
the rotational mandrel to transfer the signal from 
thermocouples to the data logger.  All the thermocouples 
from the test block through the rotational mandrel are 
connected to the rotational side of slip ring, which is rotating 
with the rotational mandrel.  The respective 20 channels on 
the other end, the stationary side of slip ring, is fixed to the 
center level of the platform and connected to the Fluke 
NetDAQ 2640A data logger.  The rotation velocity can be 
controlled by the rotation controller by the signal feed back of 
a tachometer.  In order to reduce the interference of signals, 
the power lines for heating chips, designed to be separated 
from the thermocouples, are connected to two copper rings, 
which are electrically isolated each other, on the rotating 
mandrel.  The power lines from power supply are connected 
to two metallic pins, which are located on the center level of 
rotating platform.  Springs are used to give a constant 
pressure to those pings such that a firm contact to two copper 
rings can be obtained in rotation.  Its contact resistance is 
measured to be less than 0.1Ω during rotation. 
 
 
  Fig.3 Schematic of Test Block and Its Components 
 
Data Reduction 
The jet Reynolds number is determined by the air flow 
rate which is controlled and measured by two Hasting mass 
flow controllers.  To obtain an accurate flow rate, the 
measured flow rate should be compensated due to the 
temperature effect with a factor of 0.2%/ ° C, and was 
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
 5
can be classified into two regimes such as “initially 
transitional flow regime” and “initially turbulent flow 
regime.”  It is different from that for single round jet 
impingement cases, which has three flow regimes.  No 
“initially laminar flow regime” is found in the range of 712 ≤ 
Rej ≤ 4087 studied for jet array impingement cases. 
The mutual effect of rotational Reynolds number and 
H/d ratio on jet array streamwise velocity distribution are 
more significant for a low jet Reynolds numbers and 
insignificant at high Reynolds numbers; all the distributions 
are close to the turbulent 1/7 power-law profile, it is in an 
initially turbulent flow regime. 
The present experimental data for a confined rotating 
MCM disk with single round jet impingement is also plotted 
in the figure for comparisons.  As compared with the 
streamwise velocity distribution of a confined rotating MCM 
disk with single round jet impingement, the results show that 
there is a higher streamwise velocity distribution will occur at 
two adjacent jets for jet array impingement cases.  This is 
because for jet array impingement has a higher momentum 
flux at nozzle exits in the region near the nozzle center due to 
the flow interaction between two adjacent jets to make a 
concentrated effect on the streamwise velocity distribution.  
Besides, the H/d ratio effect on the streamwise velocity 
distribution at various nozzle exits for jet array impingement 
is more significant than the single round jet impingement at 
the center location of the interaction region between two 
adjacent nozzles. 
Turbulence Intensity Distribution.  From Fig.5, the 
turbulence intensities of the jets are between 5%-15% in the 
jets region at nozzle exits when Rej = 712.  This manifests 
that the interaction of jet themselves and surrounding ambient 
air is significant at a low jet Reynolds number in the jet region 
at nozzle exits.  Accordingly, the jet at this low jet Reynolds 
number is not in an initially laminar flow regime, it can be 
regarded as in an initially transitional flow regime.   
Therefore, the inference of an initially transitional flow 
regime at this small jet Reynolds number can be ensured again 
from the turbulence intensity aspect.  However, the jet array 
turbulence intensities are sharply increased between two ad-
jacent jet nozzle regions in the present study.  The result 
manifests that there is a larger interaction between two ad-
jacent jets in the mixing layer at different jet Reynolds 
numbers and the jet turbulence intensities will increase with 
increasing jet Reynolds number.  This high interaction is due 
to the shear generated by the velocity gradients of the jet, and 
this shear can then cause the jet to spread more broadly. 
Furthermore, the turbulence intensity increases with 
increasing rotational Reynolds number because the higher 
velocity gradient occurred at nozzle exits enhances the shear 
force in the mixing layer.  As compared with the turbulence 
intensity distribution of a confined rotating MCM disk with 
single round jet impingement, there is a maximum turbulence 
intensity occurs at nozzle exits in the region nearby the center 
location of the interaction region between two adjacent 
nozzles for jet array impingement, but for single round jet 
impingement cases the maximum turbulence intensity occurs 
near the location of r/d =1.  Besides, as the H/d ratio 
increases, the turbulence intensity for both single round jet and 
jet array impingement onto a rotating MCM disk cases will 
increase because the interaction between the jet and the 
ambient air in the mixing layer becomes stronger. 
Flow Characteristics along Jet Centerlines 
 Streamwise Velocity Decay along Jet Centerline.  
The dimensionless centerline velocity decay along jet 
centerline for the cases of Rer =1582 under different jet 
Reynolds numbers at Z/d = 1 to 7 for confined round jet array 
impingement at the central nozzle, i.e., N0, is shown in Fig.6.  
The results manifest that the jet centerline velocities for jet 
array impinging onto a rotating MCM disk under various jet 
Reynolds numbers are kept constant and persisted to the 
distance near four times of nozzle diameter measured from 
nozzle exit, and then decay sharply before Z/d=4.  Generally, 
the distance measured from nozzle exit to a location where a 
sharp decay of centerline velocity exists can be regarded as the 
potential core length.  To make a quantitative description of 
the potential core length, the definition of potential core length 
proposed by Chou and Hung [10] is used in the present study.  
The region of nozzle exit to a location where the kinetic 
energy of jet flow deviates by 5% from that at nozzle exit is 
defined as the potential core length.  However, the potential 
core lengths for the cases of a confined rotating MCM disk 
with round jet array impingement at various nozzle locations 
(i.e., N0, N1, N2, N3) are between 3.42 – 4.83 times the nozzle 
diameter, but for single round jet impingement is between 
3.74 – 4.53 times the nozzle diameter in the ranges of 4.5 ≤ 
H/d ≤ 14.4, 712 ≤ Rej ≤ 4087 and 0 ≤ Rer ≤ 2906.
 
 
Fig.5 Turbulence Intensity Distribution at Z/d =1 for Cases of 
H/d = 7.62, Rer = 1582 under Different Jet Reynolds 
Numbers Along the Radial Direction at θ=90o 
 
As shown in Fig.7, the potential core lengths of all the 
nozzle jets for a confined rotating MCM disk with round jet 
array impingement increase with increasing jet Reynolds 
number. Besides the potential core lengths increase with 
increasing H/d ratio and decrease with increasing rotational 
Reynolds number; and the effect of jet Reynolds number is 
more significant than that of rotational Reynolds number or 
H/d ratio.  The disk rotation effect on the potential core 
length at nozzle N0 (i.e., r/d=0) for confined round jet array 
impingement cases and confined single round jet impingement 
cases is not significant.  The potential core length of the 
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
 7
As compared with the streamwise velocity distribution 
along radial directions of θ = 0o and 90o, the results reveal that 
the strength of the flow interaction between two adjacent jets 
increases with decreasing nozzle pitch or increasing jet 
Reynolds number.  Additionally, it is worth pointing out that 
the streamwise velocity distribution for jet array impingement 
decays more quickly at the outmost nozzle exit region i.e., N2 
and N3, along radial direction of θ = 0o and 90o when after the 
location of r/d = 3.5 and r/d= 4.5, respectively.  Since a very 
high velocity gradient occurred at this outmost nozzle region 
enhances the shear force in the mixing layer; and then this 
high shear force may entrain more ambient air to jet flow.  
The higher shear force penetrate into jet center will cause the 
jet to decay more quickly. 
 
Fig.8 Turbulence Intensity Evolution Along Jet Centerline for 
Cases of H/d = 7.62, Rej = 4087 under Different 
Rotational Reynolds Numbers 
 
 
Fig.9 Dimensionless Velocity Distribution at Z/d =1-7 for 
Cases of H/d = 7.62, Rej = 4087 and Rer = 1582 Along 
the Radial Direction at θ = 90o 
 
Turbulence Intensity Distribution.  As shown in 
Fig.10, the effect of jet Reynolds number on turbulence 
intensity distributions at Z/d = 1 to 7 along radial directions of 
θ = 90o for confined round jet array impingement at various 
nozzle exits is explored.  The turbulence intensity 
distributions at various nozzle exits (i.e., N0, N1, N2, N3) along 
radial directions of θ = 0o and 90o have similar turbulence 
intensity distribution profile when under the same jet 
Reynolds number.  As compared with the turbulence 
intensity distribution along radial directions of θ = 0o and 90o, 
the strength of the turbulence intensity between two adjacent 
jets decreases with decreasing nozzle pitch or jet Reynolds 
number.  This flow interaction between two adjacent jets 
would weaken the jet strength. 
 Furthermore, the strengths on both streamwise velocity 
and turbulence intensity for the cases of a confined rotating 
MCM disk with round jet array impingement increase with 
increasing Z/d ratio.  The flow interaction on both 
streamwise velocity and turbulence intensity distributions 
along the axial direction for adjacent jets becomes more 
significant when the jet flow is more close to the MCM disk 
surface, but no such an interaction effect existed for the cases 
of single round jet impingement.   The streamwise velocity 
for the cases of single round jet impingement decreases with 
increasing Z/d ratio.  The turbulence intensity for the cases of 
jet array impingement growing up along the axial directions 
are significantly faster than the cases of single round jet 
impingement.  Finally, the higher streamwise velocity and 
turbulence intensity distributions occur at the center location 
between two adjacent jets in the near-surface region of the 
MCM disk.  The jet array impingement has a higher 
momentum flux in the flow interaction region between two 
adjacent nozzles; and it can achieve a more uniform thermal 
performance as compared with the cases of single round jet 
impingement.  Near-surface fluid flow behavior including the 
streamwise velocity and turbulence intensity distributions can 
be employed to interpret the heat transfer characteristics for jet 
array impingement. 
 
Fig.10 Turbulence Intensity Distribution at Z/d =1-7 for Cases 
of H/d = 7.62, Rej =712, 4087, Rer = 1582 Along the 
Radial Direction at θ = 90o  
Copyright ©2007 by ASME
Proceedings of InterPACK’07
         International Electronic Packaging Technical Conference and Exhibition 
July 8-12, 2007, Vancouver, B.C, CANADA
 
IPACK2007-33277 
 
 
Heat Transfer Characteristics for a Confined Rotating MCM Disk 
with Round Jet Array Impingement 
 
C. Y. Lee, C.J. Fang, C. H. Peng, T. W. Lin and Y. H.Hung  
Department of Power Mechanical Engineering 
National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan 
Email: yhhung@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT 
 
An effective method of design of experiments combined 
with Central Composite Design for exploring the heat transfer 
characteristics for a confined rotating Multi-Chip Module 
(MCM) disk with round jet array impingement has been 
successfully developed.  The relevant parameters influencing 
heat transfer performance include the steady-state Grashof 
number (Grs), ratio of jet separation distance to nozzle 
diameter (H/d), jet Reynolds number (Rej) and rotational 
Reynolds number (Rer).  Their effects on heat transfer 
characteristics have been systematically explored. An 
axisymmetrical temperature distribution is ensured for various 
Grs, Rej, Rer and H/d ratios.  As compared with the mutual 
effects of jet array impingement and disk rotation cause a 
more non-uniform distribution of chip temperatures.  For 
heat transfer behavior, a new correlation of stagnation Nusselt 
number for jet array impingement at r/R=0 in terms of Rej and 
H/d is presented.  As compared with the experimental steady-
state data of single round jet impingement, the average heat 
transfer enhancement at stagnation point r/R = 0 of jet array 
impingement is 607%.  For the rotating MCM disk cases, the 
highest chip heat transfer occurs at the MCM disk rim, and 
decreases sharply along the distance from the surface edge 
toward the surface center. 
 
Keywords: Round Jet Array Impingement, MCM Disk, 
Grashof Number, Ratio of Jet Separation Distane to Nozzle 
Diameter, Jet Reynolds Number, Rotational Reynolds Number, 
Nusselt Number. 
 
NOMENCLATURE 
 
A Area of MCM Disk (m2) 
D Diameter of MCM Disk (m) 
DH Hydraulic Diameter of Simulated Chips (m),2lw/(l+W) 
d Nozzle Diameter (m) 
H Separation Distance Between Nozzle and Disk (m) 
h Heat Transfer Coefficient, W/m2 oC 
Nu Nusselt Number 
N Rotational Speed of the Disk (rpm), Nozzle Number 
n Number of nozzles 
Qm Mass Flow Rare 
q Heat Flux 
Rej Jet Reynolds Number 
Rer Rotational Reynolds Number,(πND2/120υ)  
r  Distance in Radial Direction (m) 
jV  Mean Streamwise Velocity at Nozzle Exit (m/s) 
 
Subscripts 
i Internal Energy Change 
j Index of Nozzle Number 
m Mixed Convection 
r Radiative 
s Steady state 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Cooling, heating and drying processes involving 
impinging jets have been extensively studied.  The well 
known technique of impinging jets has been used in many 
applications such as electronics cooling, turbine cooling, 
cooling of Computer-Aided Tomography (CAT) scanners, 
drying of textile, annealing of metal and plastics, and 
tempering of glass.  Recently, the demand for compactness 
and higher operational speeds leads to high power density in 
electronic packages.  The thermal management of compact 
electronics packages, a formidable task, is essential for 
reliability and efficiency of operation. Improvement in cooling 
methods is required to avoid unacceptable temperature rise.  
A heat transfer enhancement technique of jet impingement 
with low air velocity, to meet the limitation of the resulting 
force of air jet exerted on the packages, is a promising way to 
achieve higher thermal performance for compact electronics 
packages.  Furthermore, in order to enhance the cooling 
capability of jet impingement with minimal consumption of 
fluid, the rotating target may be introduced. 
A detailed study of heat transfer characteristics of a 
round jet impingement were document by Gardon and 
Conbonpue [1].  In 1977, Martin [2] presented several 
empirical correlations for evaluating heat transfer in jet 
 1 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
plenum is made of 5 cm-thick acrylic-plastic material that is 
36cm long and has a chamber diameter of 80 mm.  It is 
designed to provide a controllable and stable air jet array 
impinging the heated target surface.  There is a 4 cm 
diameter momentum dissipation plate to dissipate the 
momentum of the air flow from the air supply system.  A 5 
cm-thick honeycomb is designed to create a uniform air flow 
with low turbulence.  The second part of the air plenum is 
interchangeable for setting various jet configurations.  As 
shown in Fig.2, a confined plate of air jet with 80mm in 
diameter is installed at the bottom of the chamber.  In the 
present study, the jet array impingement has fifteen nozzle jets 
and installed on the confined plate surface.  The diameter of 
the confined round jet array nozzle is all fixed at 6.15 mm, and 
the ratio of nozzle length to diameter (L/d) is designed to be 2 
in the present experiments.  The contact surface between 
these two parts is sealed with O-ring for preventing the 
leakage of the pressurized air in the chamber.  Besides, the 
schematic of all the nozzle locations for the jet array with their 
definitions are shown in Fig. 3.  As displayed in Fig. 3, the 
ratios of nozzle pitch to nozzle diameter along θ = 0o and 90o 
are set as 3 and 2, respectively. 
 
Fig.2  Schematic of Confined Round Jet Array Chamber and 
Nozzle 
 
 
Fig.3  Schematic of Nozzle Location Number with Its 
Definition 
 
MCM Test Block.  The air jet generated from the air 
jet chamber impinges normally onto the center of a heated 
MCM target block.  As shown in Fig.4, the MCM test block 
has a diameter of 80 mm and 85 mm thick.  The block, which 
is confined with a bakelite cylinder, is composed of three 
layers.  The top layer is the simulated MCM, which is made 
by a 0.76 mm thick alumina plate (Al2O3) with a diameter of 
78 mm. A 3×5 array of simulated heating chips were flush 
printed on the alumina surface, and the chip size is 6 mm×5 
mm.  To ensure a uniform heat flux from the chips and disk 
surfaces, the electrical resistances of 15 chips in the present 
study are precisely kept at 300±1Ω by a laser trimmer during 
the manufacturing process of the MCM disk; then, the 
resistances for these 15 chips are connected in parallel and 
inputted with a specified constant voltage by a d.c. power 
supply.  The range of voltages, which can be applied to each 
simulated chip, is 0-140V.  Furthermore, the heat spreading 
effect in the radial direction is reasonable to be neglected 
because of the heated MCM disk with a very small thickness 
of 0.76 mm, so a uniform heat flux from chips can be 
employed in the present study.  For the test plate, there are 17 
calibrated T-type thermocouples, which have the diameter of 
0.08 mm, on the MCM surface installed for measuring the 
local chip temperatures of the MCM disk surface.  Besides, 
the middle layer is a 2 cm thick balsa slab, which is epoxied 
on the backside of the alumina plate to inhibit conductive heat 
losses from the chips.  The bottom layer (i.e. the third layer), 
epoxied on the backside of balsa slab, is a 2 cm thick balsa 
slab.  Fine holes are drilled through the balsa wood and the 
bakelite to allow the passage of chip leads and thermocouples.  
There are a total of 19 calibrated thermocouples installed for 
local chip temperature measurements of the test block in the 
present experiments.  In addition, the MCM test target block 
is placed on a programmable motor-driven three-dimensional 
(3-D) precision stage controller.  The 3-D stage controller is 
used to precisely adjust the position of the test target surface 
and the jet separation distance between nozzle exit and test 
target surface.  The minimum movement for position control 
of the test target surface with this system is estimated to be 10 
µm. 
 
 
Fig.4 Schematic of Test Block and Its Components 
 
Rotating Facility.  The heated MCM disk assembly can 
be directly mounted on the spindle of the platform to rotate 
freely.  Furthermore, the heated disk assembly is able to 
move in vertical direction to control the separation distance 
 3 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
exit, respectively.  qc,j is the transient convective heat flux of 
discrete chip j. 
The transient average Nusselt number is evaluated by the 
step similar to transient chip Nusselt number, but with the 
difference that all the parameters are based on the whole 
surface, not on the heated chips.  Therefore, the transient heat 
flux of the MCM test surface is 
 
 
 ikrtc qqqqq −−−=                       (7) 
 
 
where the tq , rq , kq and iq  are the transient total input 
heat, radiative heat loss, conductive heat loss and internal-
energy change per unit area on the basis of the whole surface 
area of the heated MCM disk, A t.  
Thus, the transient average heat transfer coefficient of the 
heated disk can be evaluated as 
 
aw
c
TT
q
  h −=
                                 (8) (8) 
 
and the transient average Nusselt number can be obtained by 
the following formula: 
 
ak
D hNu =                                    (9) (9) 
  
where D is the diameter of the heated MCM disk. 
 
Uncertainty Analysis 
According to the uncertainty analysis recommended by 
Kline and McClintock [22] and Moffat [23], The results of 
uncertainty analysis reveal that the average uncertainties of 
heat flux based on disk surface, Grashof Number, rotational 
Reynolds number, and average Nusselt number are 2.36%, 
5.49%, 5.37%, 5.31%, and 6.12%, respectively, for the cases 
of a confined rotating MCM disk with round jet array 
impingement. 
 
Sensitivity Analysis 
Sensitivity analysis is extensively used in the 
experimental planning stage to help design the apparatus and 
data reduction procedures.  The method is using the 
statistical skill, ANOVA F-test.  According to the results in 
ANOVA F-test, a sensitivity analysis for the design factors is 
performed.  As shown in Fig. 5, the one-factor variation plot 
can also be examined from the established response surface 
model.  With this systematic statistical method, instead of 
one-factor-at-a-time experimentations, a quicker and better 
overall system understanding can be obtained.  For the 
steady-state average Nusselt number, the factor contribution of 
A (Grs), B (H/d), C (Rej) and D (Rer) are 0.46%, 23.33%, 
68.62% and 7.59%, respectively.  The results manifest that 
the steady-state average Nusselt number is more significantly 
affected by Rej than Grs, H/d and Rer in the present parametric 
studies.  From the sensitive analysis, the contributions of the 
present parametric studies are consistent with the present 
experimental results.  For the confined rotating MCM disk 
with round jet array impingement the influential parameters 
are: ratio of jet separation distance to nozzle diameter (H/d), 
jet Reynolds number (Rej) and rotational Reynolds number 
(Rer). 
Besides, it is worth pointing out that as compared with 
the sensitive analysis results of the present jet array 
impingement with single round jet impingement onto a 
rotating MCM disk, the parameter contributions are decreased 
from 86.12% to 68.62% for Rej, but increased from 11.45% to 
23.33% and 2.24% to 7.59% for H/d ratio and Rer, 
respectively. 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
 
The main emphasis of the present experimental results 
is on the transient heat transfer characteristics of a stationary 
or rotating MCM disk surface with confined jet array 
impingement.  The schematic of the test section for an 
confined round jet array impinging onto a heated rotating 
MCM disk in the experiments with relevant definitions is 
shown in Fig. 6.  The nozzle diameter is 6.15 mm with a ratio 
of nozzle length to diameter (L/d) being set as 2.  The 
diameter of the heated surface is designed as 78 mm and the 
chip size is 5× 6 mm2.  The control parameters explored in 
the study are the jet Reynolds number (Rej), ratio of jet 
separation distance to nozzle diameter (H/d), the steady-state 
Grashof number (Grs) or chip heat flux (qcs), and the rotational 
Reynolds number (Rer).  The rotational Reynolds number is 
defined as Rer = πND2/120ν, where N and D represent the 
rotational speed (rpm) and diameter of the MCM disk, 
respectively; and ν is the kinematic viscosity of air.  The 
ranges of above-mentioned parameters studied at steady state 
are Grs = 2.32 ×105 - 2.57×106, H/d = 0.83 - 14.4, Rej = 89
 – 
4087 and Rer = 0
 - 2903.  In addition, the jet exit temperature 
Tj is usually chosen as a reference to correct the mean velocity 
and turbulence intensity in the study.  The jet exit 
temperature (Tj) in the experiments is varied between 27
o
C 
and 29
 o
C.  Since the difference of jet exit with jet inlet 
temperatures is measured to be less than 0.3
 o
C, the heated 
effect of jet is insignificant and can be neglected. 
 
 
 
Fig.5  Sensitivity Analysis of Design Variables for a Rotating 
MCM Disk with Confined Round Jet Array 
Impingement 
 5 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
0.412H3.005( )0.4 Dr s rNu  = (1.855 Re ) [1  0.675 ]e
−−     (15)                         
 
Figures 9 through 12 illustrate the results of the present 
experimental data and Eq.(13) for various steady-state Grashof 
numbers, jet Reynolds numbers, rotational Reynolds numbers 
and ratios of jet separation distance to nozzle diameter for 
comparisons.  Comparisons between the predicted steady-
state average Nusselt numbers and the present jet array 
experimental data are made with a satisfactory agreement.  
The maximum and average deviations of the predictions by 
Eq.(13) from the present steady-state jet array experimental 
data are 9.36% and 2.47%, respectively.  Finally, as 
compared with the present steady-state experimental data of 
jet array and single round jet impingement, we can find that 
the average heat transfer enhancement for average Nusselt 
number of jet array impingement is 495 % when under the 
same design variables. 
In the present experimental ranges for the confined 
rotating MCM disk with round jet array impingement, the heat 
transfer enhancement ratio
jaR  are increases with increasing 
H/d ratio and the heat transfer enhancement ratio between 4.75 
- 6.16 in the present experimental ranges. The proposed heat 
transfer enhancement correlation can be expressed as follows: 
 
, 2
,
5.025+0.0352(H/d)+0.0016(H/d)ms a ja
ms s
Nu R
Nu
= =   (16) 
 
Fig.9  Effect of Steady-State Grashof Number on Transient 
Average Nusselt Number. 
 
Fig.10  Effect of H/d on Transient Average Nusselt Number. 
 
Fig.11  Effect of Jet Reynolds Number on Transient Average 
Nusselt Number. 
 
Fig.12  Effect of Rotational Reynolds Number on Transient 
Average Nusselt Number. 
 
CONCLUDING REMARKS 
 
The conclusions drawn from the results and discussion 
are presented below: 
(1) For a confined rotating MCM disk with round jet array 
impingement, the contributions of Grs, H/d, Rej and Rer 
on the steady-state average Nusselt number are 0.46%, 
23.33%, 68.62% and 7.59%, respectively. 
(2) A new generalized correlation is proposed to represent 
transient convective heat fluxes for confined rotating 
MCM disks with round jet array impingement. 
(3) An empirical correlation of stagnation Nusselt number 
for jet array impingement at r/R=0 in terms of Rej and 
H/d are presented. Comparisons between the 
predictions and the present experimental jet array data 
are made with a satisfactory agreement.  The 
maximum and average deviations are 8.34% and 3.25%, 
respectively. 
(4) An empirical correlation for the steady-state 
o
 distributions is proposed for a confined 
rotating MCM disk with jet array impingement. The 
maximum and average deviations of the predictions by 
ms,jms, NuNu /
 7 
 Copyright ©2007 by ASME
