 國科會年度提昇私立大學校院研發能量專案計畫 
船艦水屏防禦之研究（1/3） 
計畫編號：NSC  94-2611-E-212-001- 
主持人：大葉大學 機械與自動化工程學系 梁卓中 教授 
研究人員：研究生 曾韋銘 
 
摘要 
本論文乃是以線串炸藥（line charge）於
水下爆炸形成水屏防禦（Barrier defense）之
分析為研究對象。在1995年7月間，美國海軍
水面戰鬥中心（Naval Surface Warfare Center 
Dahlgren Division, NSWCDD）發展出一種新
的技術概念，此概念即認為應用水下爆炸產
生之水屏形成之防禦系統可有絕對之效益，
尤其應用在海軍防禦對抗高速反艦飛彈
（ASCMs）(Fig.1) [1]之攻擊。水屏技術乃運
用較低經費之水下爆炸產生之水屏來提供海
軍最低限度之防禦系統。此類水屏或水障壁
（Barrier）的產生來自於多顆水下炸藥在淺
水下爆炸而成。為了持續發展以及水障壁概
念的評估， NSWCDD進行了線串炸藥之水
下爆炸測試，探討離散型（Discrete）及連續
型（Continuous）線串炸藥爆炸後噴入空氣中
的水量所產生之水屏的防禦能力。 
本論文以美國NSWCCD之水屏試驗場
景及量測結果為研究與驗證對象，利用
MSC.Dytran軟體進行自由液面水柱之模擬探
討，分析離散型線串炸藥與連續型線串炸藥
二種型態之線串炸藥於水面下引爆後，探討
厚度、高度及密度對產生水屏之影響，由二
維之連續型與離散型線串炸藥模型以及三維
之離散型線串炸藥模型所計算出之結果，比
較水屏高度、密度及剖面圖之輪廓。最後，
由二維及三維線串炸藥爆炸研究探討優質水
屏之理想爆炸深度及其產生之水柱輪廓。 
 
 2
關鍵字：反艦飛彈、水障壁、水屏、 
Abstract111111111111111111111111 
The U.S. Naval Surface Warfare Center 
Dahlgren Division (NSWCDD) is developing 
technology for a concept that has the potential 
to be very effective in defending Navy 
platforms against high speed, sea-skimming, 
anti-ship cruise missiles (ASCMs) (Fig.1) [1].  
This concept uses a new kill mechanism, a wall 
of water, to provide a low cost, universal 
terminal defense system for Navy ships.  This 
wall of water or water barrier is formed from 
the shallow detonation of multiple underwater 
explosive charges .To support the development 
and evaluation of the Water Barrier Concept, 
underwater detonation tests of scaled line 
charges were conducted by NSWCDD in July 
1995 to determine the amount of water ejected 
into the air by subsurface detonation of 
continuous and discrete line charges.  The 
above-surface plumes were generated by the 
underwater detonation of composition C-4 
demolition blocks that were configured into 
continuous line charges that were 30 to 56 feet 
in length.  Plumes also were produced from 
the sequential underwater detonation of discrete 
line changes that consisted of five to eight 
10-pounds charges separated by 8 feet and 
fabricated from C-4 demolition blocks.  Line 
charge depths and horizontal separation of 
discrete charges were chosen to maximize the 
amount of water ejected into the air. This 
線串炸藥。 
works about underwater explosion by using 
numerical simulation. Moreover, the 
computation by using empirical formula is not 
absolutely correct. Therefore, it is very 
important to use a high reliable software to do 
this study. Hence, finite element analysis 
software would be used in this study to simulate 
the water barrier of underwater explosion. 
This thesis is a study of the water barrier of 
underwater explosion. In this study, the high 
non-linear finite element software MSC.Dytran 
was used to simulate the water barrier of 
underwater explosion. In this study, the best 
conditions for a water barrier and how to obtain 
the best protection were investigated. Due to 
the protection ability would be influenced by 
the shape, width and height of water barrier.  
Therefore, it is expected to obtain reliable data 
by using two dimensional and three 
dimensional models for underwater explosion 
to build the simulative scene.  With finite 
element analysis software, low-cost numerical 
analysis with high reliability can be 
implemented to analyze plume height and 
density in underwater line charges explosion.  
The data obtained from the simulation are 
similar to actual situation by computer and the 
disadvantage of spending too much money on 
real tests can be avoided. 
 In order to validate and estimate the study of 
the effect of explosion, the semi-empirical 
method presented by Cole [2] and Michael [3] 
is used to study the estimation of underwater 
and surface effect of underwater explosion by 
single charge.  Afterwards, the result was 
compared to the test report of the underwater 
explosion by thirteen line charges done by the 
Naval Surface Warfare Center, Dahlgren 
Division (NSWCDD). The data retrieved from 
camera recording was compared to the data 
obtained from the numerical simulation. The 
best charge depth of line charges and horizontal 
distance of charge was investigated to find the 
maximum water splashed into air to resist the 
attack of anti-ship missile. 
2. THEORETICAL  
In this paper, finite element program 
MSC.Dytran [4] was used for the prediction 
of water plume behavior of underwater 
explosion near air-water surface. MSC.Dytran 
is a three-dimensional analysis code for 
analyzing the dynamic, nonlinear behavior of 
fluid, solid components, and structures.  It 
uses explicit time integration and incorporates 
features that simulate a wide range of material 
and geometric nonlinearity.  It is particularly 
suitable for analyzing short, transient dynamic 
events that involve large deformations, a high 
degree of nonlinearity, and interactions 
between fluid and structures.  Typical 
applications include: explosives, blasting 
loading, and underwatershock analysis.  
Three-dimensional Eulerian elements can be 
used to create Eulerian meshes and Eulerian 
solvers can handle hydrodynamic materials.  
A general material facility can be used to 
define a wide range of material models 
including explosive burn models.  Loads can 
be applied to material in the Eulerian mesh by 
pressure or flow boundaries, and initial 
conditions of element variables can be 
prescribed.  Rigid walls can be created that 
act as barriers to prevent the flow of Eulerian 
material. 
The theoretical background and numerical 
approach that govern the evolution of the flow, 
with the primary aim being a concise 
description of the basis of the procedure used 
to obtain the numerical results of water 
plumes, shall be summarized as follow. 
BACKGROUND 
 4
 6
distance between charges is relatively small 
when compared with the maximum diameter of 
the spherical bubble from an individual charge. 
Pressure at the outer boundaries is set to the 
hydrostatic pressure. The Euler mesh contains 
the water, the air-water surface and the air.  
Fig. 7 shows the 2-D finite element model used 
for this problem and consists of 250000 (50m×
50m) Eulerian elements and 502002 nodes 
which contain explosive, water and air. The 
element size for this domain is the same as 0.1 
m in this simulation. 
A spherical detonation wave front traveling 
outward from the initiation point at the center 
of the charge at a velocity of 8193 m/s was used. 
The explosive C4 is created in this Euler mesh, 
too. The density of the explosive is 1601 kg/m3 
and the mass of every charge is (1.25 lb) 0.567 
kg. The specific internal energy is 6.657E6 
kg-m2/s2. The explosive be modeled by a JWL 
equation of state in MSC.Dytran. We assumed 
the explosive is a ball, the radius of the ball is 
0.044 m. 
The seawater was modeled using a 
polynomial equation of state. This state 
equation accounts for changes in the pressure of 
the seawater due to density change and specific 
internal changes. The density of water is 1025 
kg/m3. The density of air is 1.0 kg/m3. The ratio 
of heat capacities of the gas is constant as 1.4. 
Specific internal energy is taken as 2.5E5 
kg-m2/s2. Initial air pressure is set to 1.0E5 Pa. 
Gravity load is applied to the whole model. 
 
4.3 Result and Discussion 
 
Density contour of the plume at t = 0.2, 0.5, 
1.0, and 3.0 for the computation is displayed 
in Table 2 and Table 3. Densities less than 
0.1% of the water density are present as a 
“white” region, and “red” corresponds to the 
water density. 
At time t = 0.2, the “egg-shaped” bubble has 
nearly attained its maximum radius. A small 
region of “numerical spray” has begun to form 
above the water on top of the bubble. The 
water has an upward velocity but is being 
accelerated downward due to the below 
ambient pressure inside the bubble. A small 
thin upward moving water jet has formed in 
the cases when the initial surface was 
indented. 
 At time = 0.5, the bubble has begun to 
collapse. During this collapse a high-pressure 
stagnation point forms in the water above the 
bubble. This in turn  
causes the formation of a “double jet”, a 
small one moving downward through the 
bubble, and a large one forming the central 
water column of the plume. In the 
computations, this central column is 
surrounded by the numerical spray region, 
which is moving upward but is being 
accelerated downward by gravity. As shown in 
Fig.8 , the error between the experimental 
value presented by Joseph and the calculated 
value by MSC.Dytran was about 20%.  The 
error may be resulted from the spray 
generated from the water surface at the 
beginning of explosion.  The error was 
caused due to the calculated result of the 
model could not completely present the whole 
contour of the spray. 
5.  CONCLUSIONS 
The comparison between computational and 
experimental measurements of height, length, 
diameter, and thickness of plume produced by 
underwater explosion was presented in this 
study.                                     
  
  
  
 8
  
  
  
  
  
Fig.5 Continuous line charge arrangement 
at constant depth 
Fig.3 Plume dimension 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 2-D geometrical model of     
continuous line charge 
 
    Fig.4 Maximum high and radius of plume from  
  an underwater TNT explosion  [3] 
 10
 
大葉大學出席國際學術會議報告 
報告人姓名 梁卓中 系所 
機械與自動化 
工程學系 
職稱 教授 
兼院長
中文：第九屆爆震與撞擊下之結構研討會 
會議正式名稱 英文：SUSI 2006-Ninth International Conference on Structures Under Shock And Impact
會 議 時 間 自 2006 年 7 月 3 日至 2006 年 7 月 5 日 
地點(國、州、市) 英國倫敦 (New Forest) 
主辦機構名稱 1. Wessex institute of Technology,UK 
2. University of Livepool,UK 
發表之論文題目 
中文：淺水爆炸水柱之數值模擬 
英文：Numerical study of water plume behavior under shallow depth explosion 
報告內容包括下列各項：（請另備 A4 大小紙張書寫） 
 參加會議經過 
 與會心得 
 考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
 建議 
 攜回資料名稱及內容 
其他 
 
系 簽 
所 註 
主 意 
管 見 
 
院 簽 
   註 
   意 
長 見 
 
 
 
 1
SUSI 2006 
Ninth International Conference on Structures Under Shock And Impact 
3 - 5 July 2006 New Forest, UK 
 
 
 
Numerical study of water plume behavior under 
shallow depth explosion  
Cho-Chung Liang, Tzu-Hao Liu, Wei-Ming Tseng  
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering, Da-Yeh 
University, Taiwan, ROC  
Abstract  
The most obvious and spectacular features of underwater explosions are the disturbances of the 
water surface above the charge. And the overall hydrodynamic phenomena involved in this process 
are extremely complicated. Much of the present knowledge and understanding of this field was 
acquired because of the demands and the few available discussions of the subject have become 
inadequate or obsolete. This paper evaluates and proceeds on simulation ability of shallow depth 
explosion plume by MSC.Dytran finite element software. Also in this paper, numerical studies of 
explosion plume which includes contours of the plume (plume height, plume width and plume 
thickness) are investigated in details and compared with relative literature’s empirical 
methodology. The studies presented in this paper attempt to supply a reasonable comprehensive 
account, which will be used for workers in the field of underwater explosion and others who are 
interested in the water Barrier Defense. 
Keywords: Underwater Explosion, Shock. Bubble, Water Plume, Water Barrier. 
 
 3
A more thorough study should include consideration of dome formation, the 
internal structure of the dome, and the effect of charge depth. The phenomenon 
in its entirety is a fairly elaborate one, as yet imperfectly understood. Although 
some sources of the qualitative introductory discussion based largely on 
photographic records obtained at Woods Hole, especially the results reported by 
Slichter, Schenider, and Cole [1], have been identified in the past.  For example, 
initial formulation of the spray dome, development of the dome, plume 
formulation, shock wave spread, sound ranging and bubble period measurement 
etc., the water plume process cannot be fully explained by these mechanisms. 
In this paper, the formulation of water plume of underwater explosion near air–
water surface is quantitatively examined using the finite element method.  An 
Eulerian finite element mesh in which the finite element mesh is stationary and 
material flows through the mesh was utilized.  The finite element program 
MSC/Dytran(Mac Neal–Schwendler Corporation, 2002) was used in this 
paper[4].  Also in this paper, numerical studies of explosion plume which 
includes contours of the plume (plume height, plume width and plume thickness) 
and duration decreasing for charges fired at different depth are investigated in 
details and compared with Michael’s empirical methodology. The studies 
presented in this paper attempt to supply a reasonable comprehensive account, 
which will be used for workers in the field of underwater explosion. 
 
2. Theoretical background 
 
The finite element program MSC.Dytran[4] was used for the prediction of water 
plume behavior of underwater explosion near air-water surface. MSC.Dytran is a 
three-dimensional analysis code for analyzing the dynamic, nonlinear behavior 
of fluid, solid components, and structures.  It uses explicit time integration and 
incorporates features that simulate a wide range of material and geometric 
nonlinearity.  It is particularly suitable for analyzing short, transient dynamic 
events that involve large deformations, a high degree of nonlinearity, and 
interactions between fluid and structures.  Typical applications include: 
explosives, blasting loading, and underwater shock analysis.  Three-dimensional 
Eulerian elements can be used to create Eulerian meshes and Eulerian solvers 
can handle hydrodynamic materials.  A general material facility can be used to 
define a wide range of material models including explosive burn models.  Loads 
can be applied to material in the Eulerian mesh by pressure or flow boundaries, 
and initial conditions of element variables can be prescribed.  Rigid walls can be 
created that act as barriers to prevent the flow of Eulerian material. The 
theoretical background and numerical approach that govern the evolution of the 
flow, with the primary aim being a concise description of the basis of the 
procedure used were to obtain the numerical results of water plumes, shall be 
summarized in [4]. 
 
 
 5
 
Figure 2: Configuration of 9.1kg TNT charge fires at 10 meter below sea surface 
(D=10 m) 
 
 
This example studied the water plume formulation by 9.1Kg TNT changed fired 
at 10 meter below surface water. In this example, validations of the 2-D 
computational model are presented. Comparisons of the computations to 
empirical data include plume height and plume radius are calculated form 
Michael’s and Swisdak’s formulations. 
2. Model description 
In this simulation, the relative positions of the explosives, water, air and water-
air surface are shown in Figure 3.   
 
 
Figure 3: One half of the initial geometry of water problem 
 7
0 
Sec 
2.6 
Sec
 
0.2 
Sec 
3.0 
Sec
 
0.6 
Sec 
3.4 
Sec
 
1.0 
Sec 
3.8 
Sec
 
1.4 
Sec 
4.0 
Sec
 
1.8 
Sec 
4.8 
Sec
 
2.2 
Sec 
5.0 
Sec
 
Figure 5: Surface effect of underwater explosion 
(TNT charge weight in 9.1kg, explosion depth in 10m) 
 
 
 9
Therefore, in the results computed by MSC.Dytran, we could not find the 
relative locations to do measurement according to the height and thickness of the 
plume defined by Michael.  Thus, the results of the computation had some 
difference. There was some difference between the results of different depth of 
explosion computed by MSC.Dytran and the result computed by Michael’s semi-
empirical method, and the possible reason was that there is no clear definition of 
the location of the biggest height and thickness of the plume in the reference 
presented by Michael.  Therefore, we could not find the relative locations to do 
measurement according to the height and thickness of the plume defined by 
Michael.  Thus, the results of the computation had some difference.  Although 
the results computed by MSC.Dytran could not correspond to the results 
computed by Michael’s semi-empirical method, we still could do quite realistic 
simulation of the phenomenon of the effect of water surface (shape of the plume 
after explosion) resulted from explosion and starting time of the effective plume. 
In the discussion of the last paragraph, the precision of MSC.Dytran should be 
used to be the numerical simulation analysis tool to analyze the effect of water 
surface in underwater explosion. 
 
5. Conclusion and Future Works 
 
In this paper, we used FEM software MSC.Dytran to do the numerical 
simulation of the effect of water surface after underwater explosion, and we 
compared the results to the calculation by Michael’s semi-empirical method.  
The important conclusions obtained in this paper were in the following: 
(1) FEM software MSC.Dytran could adequately simulate the historical process 
of the contour of the effective plume, and it could compute the biggest 
height and thickness of the plume of explosion, and the starting time of the 
dense plume; although the numerical results done by MSC.Dytran was close 
to the computational results done by Michael’s semi-empirical method, there 
was still some difference.  The possible reason to the difference was that 
there is no clear definition of the biggest height and width of the plume in 
the reference presented by Michael. Therefore, we could not find the relative 
location to do measurement according to the definition of the height and 
width of the plume defined by Michael.  Thus, there was difference between 
the two results, but MSC.Dytran still could simulate the phenomenon of the 
effect of water surface resulted from explosion. 
(2) While we are using FEM software MSC.Dytran to simulate the effect of 
water surface, the present personal computer still needed much time to 
compute to obtain effective data in order to observe the effect of different 
depth and the weight of explosive to the effect of water surface (starting 
time, height and thickness of the plume of explosion.) 
(3) Besides, there are still some problems which can be discussed in the future: 
a. Direction of the shock wave: Second pressure wave, refraction and 
reflection of the shock wave, cavitation resulted from the cut off at 
water surface… and the like. 
