 
 
 
摘要 
 
 
本計畫將以四頭肌力不足之中風病患深入探討使用具備伸張輔助裝置之新式矯具膝關節
所造成之生物力學上之影響與臨床步態之改善。研究之假說如下: 
1. 具備伸張輔助裝置之矯具膝關節設計應用於四頭肌力不足之中風病患應可承襲義肢四
連桿膝關節之優點， 
2. 伸張輔助裝置可 a. 提供更平順之步態表現、b. 增加步距與步行速度，c. 提供較多之
舒適性與安全性， 
3. 伸張輔助裝置所提供之力量應根據病患其不足之肌力定量化推算而得，方可達到矯具
最大之果效。 
 
本研究完成依個案研討，根據中風病患膝伸張/屈曲之臨床測試結果，其能量消耗與步態表現
擬定矯具處方建議。 
 
 
關鍵詞：G-knee;伸張輔助裝置;四頭肌力不足;中風;步態 
 
Introduction 
 
Quadriceps muscle strength is essential to human normal walking in providing a knee extension 
moment.  The drop-lock orthotic knee achieves the maximum stability and is indicated for stroke 
patients with quadriceps weakness.  However, it does not allow any swing-phase knee motion and 
therefore the wearer presents with a longer leg.  In order to clear the foot during the swing phase, 
compensatory movements at other joints are adopted.  The compensations for a stiff knee gait 
include ipslateral circumduction, hip hiking or contralateral vaulting.  The energy consumption is 
increased due to these compensations because they result in increased muscular effort and increased 
vertical excursion of the center of body mass.  An improved orthotic knee should provide sufficient 
stability in the stance phase and appropriate knee movements in the swing phase (Kaufman et al 
1996).  A simple four-bar orthotic knee will be a good candidate to fulfill the aforementioned 
requirement.  
A four-bar prosthetic knee was structurally originated from the anatomical knee (Smith et al 
2003) and has been applied to transfemoral amputee prostheses since early 1960. The four-bar knee 
design provides the following benefits over the single-axis knee unit designs (Radcliffe 1994; Gard 
et al 1996; Breakey et al 1998):  
(1) To increase stability at heel strike and through early stance phase, 
(2) To reduce energy dissipation by decreasing the magnitude of muscle activity,  
(3) To shorten the overall prosthesis length during swing phase,   
(4) To enhance voluntary control of knee flexion in terminal stance, and   
(5) To improve sitting cosmesis, provided by a more anatomical flexion pattern.   
For a four-bar knee, the knee center unlike the single-axis knee’s is changing with respect to knee 
flexion, which is also called the instantaneous center.  The center is always located at the 
intersection of the center lines of the anterior and posterior links which connect the thigh section to 
the shank section (Radcliffe 1994).  As the knee flexes, the instantaneous center takes a series of 
positions.  An elevated and posterior location of the instantaneous center will increase knee 
stability.   
 Four-bar orthotic knees has not drawn much attention till mid 1990’s.  The design of an 
orthotic knee has made biomedical engineers face much greater challenges than that of a prosthetic 
knee because of the limitation of the weight and the physical space that are available for the design.  
The compatibility of the mechanical knee motion and the anatomical knee movements that were 
generated by a four-bar orthotic knee was investigated (Chang et al 1996).   
An orthotic knee with extension assist is also indicated when a stroke patient has quadriceps 
weakness.  The orthotic goal has two folds: (1) to stabilize the knee during the stance phase such 
that the patient will not fall due to knee extensor weakness that causes the knee to buckle and (2) to 
facilitate the knee flexion such that the floor clearance is provided during the swing phase.  An 
orthotic knee with extension assist has recently been commercially available made by Becker 
Orthopedic (Model 9003 G-Knee, Figure 1).  It was claimed that the knee allows passive knee 
flexion during the swing phase.   In addition, a gas spring is to maintain the knee stability at heel 
strike providing extension assist in 50N, 75N (standard), 100N or 150N.  There has never been any 
documentation available as to the clinical effectiveness of the device on the gait of patients with 
quadriceps weakness nor prescription guidelines in choosing suitable extension assists whether 50N, 
75N, 100N or 150N. 
 
Research objective and hypotheses 
The objective of this research was to take G-Knee as an example to look into the biomechanical 
performance and clinical effectiveness of an orthotic knee with extension assist for stroke patients 
with quadriceps weakness.  In this study, orthotic prescription guidelines in choosing extension 
assists were also developed.  We believe that a knee plus gas spring can be used for stroke patients 
presented such that the extension moment of the knee with extension assist can be computed. 
Subjects   
      There were three subjects participating in this experiment.  Subject characteristics 
information are listed in table 1.  This research has been approved by IRB at National Taiwan 
University Hospital.  Subjects were informed of experimental protocol and signed an informed 
consent.  Each subject completed a Functional Indepenence Measure (FIM) score to describe his or 
her level of independence.  
Post-stroke patients with impaired knee extension were recruited.  Subjects were left 
hemiplegics and able to follow experiment instructions.  Their affected sides exhibited weakness of 
knee extensors (  grade 3), and they ≦ were not able to walk without cane or other ambulatory 
devices.  They also presented with at least fair hip flexors and hip extensors (  grade 3).  Pati≧ ents 
with spasticity, contractures, and orthopedic problems that cause limitation of joint movement of 
lower limbs were excluded.  
 
Table 1 Subject Characteristics                                                         
 
  Gender  Age  Height  Weight  Onset Time     Brunnstrom 
          (yr)   (cm)     (kg)     (month)        stage        
   F      45    150     52         9            5         
 
Patient and Orthotic Management with KAFO  
 The patient evaluation, KAFO design and fabrication, and fitting were done under supervision 
of qualified orthotists in the Rehabilitation Engineering Research Center at National Taiwan 
University (NTURERC).  G-Knees were incorporated into the KAFO designs (Figure 2). 
 
 
Figure 3 A Cybex dynamometer and the portable data-acquisition system. 
 
 
Figure 4 A portable data-acquisition system of the K4b2 and the mask. 
 
 
Part three: Gait and energy cost measurements 
(1) The gait pattern analysis was carried out in the Motion Analysis Laboratory by the force plates 
and motion analysis system to assess the walking performance of each subject and the 
effectiveness of the G-knee to validate our orthotic recommendation made in Part two-item 3.  
Gait temporal-distance measurements and kinematic together with kinetic data were acquired in 
this experiment.  Each subject wore a KAFO with the recommended grade of knee extension 
assist and if needed may walk with assistive devices such as canes or walkers.  There were 
additional experiments if there are stronger knee extension assists available.  Subjects were 
instructed to walk at their self selected speeds for 6 meters in each trial (Figure 5 (b)).  There 
must be at least three valid trials for each device experiment.  Subjects took a break of 5 
minutes between every two trials.  
(2) Physiological measures for energy cost, such as: heart rates and oxygen consumption, were 
collected after motion analysis experiment.  Thirty meters of walking test was  required for 
each trial while the subject wore a KAFO with the recommended grade and stronger grades of 
knee extension assists (Figure 6).  Each grade of extension assist was assessed as one trial.  
Subjects took a rest for 10 minutes between every two trials when the grade of extension assist 
was changed.  
  
(a)                              (b) 
Figure 6 (a) The subject wore the energy expenditure system before testing. (b) Energy expenditure 
testing was conducted in a corridor on a course 30 m long and a person took care of the subject in the 
experiment. 
 
Modeling of an orthotic knee with extension assist 
Figure 7 depicts a G-knee and its geometric parameters.  The role of additional gas spring is to 
provide additional extension moment to the knee and maintain the knee stability in the sagittal plane.  
The knee extension moment M
v
 can be readily calculated by 
M r F= ×uuv vv                                              
Energy Consumption Test 
 
The parameters of the energy expenditure during walking were normalized by 
dividing the subject’s weights (Table 2).  The rate of VO2/min (ml/min/kg) indicates the 
power requirement.  The O2 cost per meter (ml/m/kg) is the amount of oxygen needed 
to walk a unit distance and indicates physiology work.  When 75N gas spring was used, 
there were the smallest rate of VO2/min 8.8791(.3306) (ml/min/kg) and O2 cost per 
meter 0.7461(.0278) (ml/m/kg).  However, the subject’s fastest cadence and walking 
speed appeared in the condition of no gas spring. There were 66.2 (step/min) and 12.3 
(m/min) respectively. 
 
Table 2 Energy consumption and temporal parameters  
 
Gas 
Spring 
VO2 
(ml/min/kg) 
Mean(SD) 
VO2 
(ml/m/kg) 
Mean(SD) 
Cadence 
(step/min) 
Walking 
speed 
(m/min) 
None 10.9297(.3146) 0.8886(.0256) 66.2 12.3 
50N 11.0259(.7431) 0.9344(.0630) 64.5 11.8 
75N 8.8791(.3306) 0.7461(.0278) 61.7 11.9 
100N 9.0279(.6193) 0.7850(.0538) 57.7 11.5 
150N 9.2976(.4769) 0.7748(.0397) 62.8 12.0 
 
                                                         
Gait Analysis 
 
 The stance and swing phases were measured and their percentages in the gait cycle 
for paretic and non-paretic sides with various grades of extension assists are shown in 
Figure 8.  The stance phase of the paretic side was divided into three sub-phases, i.e., 
first double support (DS1), second double support (DS2) and single support (SS), and 
was further analyzed.  Figure 9 shows the durations of these sub-phases for various 
grades of extension assists. 
 The patient had pronounced extended knee in stance on either sides, affected or 
sound.  The affected knee presented gait compensation where a great portion of 
extension moments was observed from the ground reaction force throughout the stance.   
 The gait symmetry was analyzed by applying the aforementioned Symmetry Index.  
The results are shown in Figure 10.  With 75N extension assist, the gait appeared the 
most symmetric. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 The symmetry index between the paretic and non-paretic sides during (a) 
stance phase (b) swing phase. 
 
 
Conclusion 
Results showed that the condition of the 75N gas spring exhibited least energy cost and 
energy rate for the subject.  The assisted 75N gas spring has equipped the subject to 
present with the most symmetrical gait during stance and swing phase.  More subjects 
will be recruited and the kinetic analysis of the gait will be analyzed. 
 
 
 
2007 ISPO Vancouver 心得 
報告撰寫：章良渭 
 
 
7/28 Saturday 
由橙縣機場轉洛杉磯機場，到達溫哥華已 1010，到國內航站轉搭公車 242 再轉 98B 到 Granville/Nelson 
Hostelling International 旅館，已是快午夜了。鴻彬在旅館 Lobby 已等了一陣。登記並先結一天的帳，
打理之後就上床了。 
7/29 Sunday 
做完禮拜，下午參加中風病患Optimal Rehabilitation 一節的研討。Dr. Bower 的 AFO研究已開始延至
Hip 的影響。開幕式中介紹本次 ISPO2007 的主題為Moving Beyond Disability。ISPO 2007 Knuke Janson 
Award 得獎人 David Condie 就他參與Orthotics 的一生經驗發表演講，由端正名詞、處方、評估到生
物力學貢獻可稱卓著。 
Dr. Weir 來信接受來台講演的邀請，求主繼續祝福這次台大醫院醫療機器人輔具研討會。 
7/30 Monday 
糖尿病患之矯正鞋涉及足底組織特性因其組織特性隨不同區域變化，壓力加剪力的力學分析及矯具
結構與材料。 
Miami 骨科 Bowker 醫師提到壓瘡的療法，挷石膏法因不能拆卸有助治療，其療效高達 80%以上。 
Plenary keynote speaker 為Dr. Jen Geertzen其主題為ICF(International Classification of Functionality)為功能
性下註解。 
下午三時鴻彬簡報，提問時得很好的回應，肯定身體質心的運動會是脊柱側彎功能評估的新方向。 
晚間大會招待會員水族舘之旅，使會員輕鬆自在彼此交通。 
Dr. Henry Yeh 來信邀請 8/23 在 Cal State Long Beach EE Department 給演講，主題為義肢矯具簡介。 
7/31 Tuesday 
第一節聽講腦性痲痺下肢矯具的課程，從基本的評估與力學探討腦性痳痺患者的矯具需求是本節主
要議題。Plenary session 則請 Dr. Kuiken 為講員談 Neural Engineering，神經移植到殘餘肌肉以致恢復 
運動與感覺功能。此技術和 Osseointegration 結合當會是這世紀的義肢發展方向。 
參觀Renew Materials 的攤位，Wayne說明自製之矽膠襯筒的製作，可以對我們許多義肢矯具之自製
有幫助。 
Stance Control Orthosis 是最近三年來的熱門課題，除了不少的已問市產品外，不斷仍有新的研究雛
型，對我們發展MR Knee 的研究將有參考價值。 
鮑老闆、小楊相約邀晚餐，剛巧陳正明自西雅圖來訪，吃飯之外，也談 P&O的圈內事。廠商們感歎
多年的努力仍然非常辛苦，盼望找到答案改善。我的建議是合作，各就各位，繼續努力，合理的定
位自己，看自己合乎中道是很重要的，是合乎上帝心意的。求主祝福他們能認識耶穌，人生才有意
義。 
 
8/01 Wednesday 
有兩節談AFO 的議題，如何穿 AFO改善步態和 Spasticity。許多臨床的實證，未來若依科學方法整
理得有條理，有理論根據，能造福更多患者。 
晚上，信建宏弟兄招待鴻彬、Janet、佳芸和我觀光Vancouver，之後共進晚餐。 
國科會下肢矯具計畫獲通過，只是國合部分沒有任何補助。 
8/02 Thursday 
通常認為使用矯具使患者之肌肉骨骼機能減退。今早有一研究報告說矯具之使用相反會提高肌肉骨
骼機能，可能因為增加其活動能力之故。 
午餐時，我們談到鴻彬之義肢訓練，意識到住院訓練的困難度，以致不易拿到 ABC 證照。突然想到
輔研中心到美國經營 PO服務，提供自己畢業生住院訓練機會，幫助拿ABC 證照。求主啟示，引導
我。 
