I 
Abstract 
The research funded under National Science Council Project # 98-2218-E-002-025 
has been substantially completed. We have developed computer programs to model the 
operation of batch crystallizers. Using the models, we have explored the effect of changing 
the exponent on the crystal mass in the nucleation expression on the optimal supersaturation 
trajectory. The results indicate that when the exponent is small, the optimal growth rate 
trajectory is strictly increasing, whereas when it is large, the optimal growth rate is higher at 
the beginning and passes through a minimum. 
 We have also investigated the effect of seed loading on the performance of batch 
crystallization operations. Our results indicate that a previously published correlation for the 
critical seed loading is supported by numerical simulations of real case study systems. We 
anticipate that the concept of critical seed loading and a correlation relating critical seed 
loading to average seed size can also be applied to a dimensionless process model developed 
earlier. Finally, results suggest that when a suitably large seed mass is employed, the effect of 
the supersaturation trajectory on batch performance is not very significant. 
Keywords: crystallization, optimization 
 
摘要 
經由國科會贊助的研究計畫#98-2218-E-002-025 大體上已經完成。我們已經發展出電
腦程式去模擬批次結晶槽的操作。藉由這些模擬，我們已經找出改變在表示結晶成核
方程式中結晶重量的指數在最適化過飽和度曲線的影響。結果顯示，當此指數較小時，
最適化的成長速率曲線只會保持增加，而當指數較大時，最適化的成長速率曲線在初
期會較高，然後經過一個最小值。 
我們也研究了晶種載入的重量對批次結晶系統操作表現的影響。我們利用真實系統做
的數值模擬的結果和之前發表過的關於最佳晶種載入重量關係的結果相符。我們預期
這個晶種載入重量的概念和關於平均晶種大小的關係可以應用在我們之前研發的無因
次程序模型。最後，結果建議當適當且足夠多的晶種被置入時，過飽和度曲線對於批
次系統的表現的影響就不是很重要了。 
關鍵詞: 結晶，最適化 
2 
agitation rate or mechanism, etc. An alternative is to assume that it is nearly optimal to 
operate with a constant supersaturation. In 1971, Mullin and Nývlt [11] showed that it is 
possible to develop to develop a temperature trajectory that will achieve nearly constant 
crystallizer supersaturation without a model for crystal nucleation and growth if one neglects 
the nucleus-grown crystals in the solute material balance. This is reasonable because if the 
crystallizer is operated correctly, the mass of nucleus grown crystals should be small 
compared to the mass of seed-grown crystals. 
 In spite of its advantages, the Mullin-Nyvlt trajectory is seldom discussed in the 
literature. Almost all authors that develop optimized temperature trajectories use a linear 
temperature-time trajectory for comparison. The linear trajectory is substantially inferior to 
the Mullin-Nyvlt trajectory and generally causes excessive supersaturation near the beginning 
of the batch. A further drawback of existing literature reports is that they are all based on 
individual case study systems and it is not clear whether the results obtained are valid in 
general. 
 To address these shortcomings, Ward et al. [13] proposed a generic dimensionless 
model of a batch crystallization process. Using the model, they were able to show that the 
Mullin-Nyvlt trajectory performs nearly as well as the optimal trajectory in most cases, while 
the linter trajectory is inferior. 
Another critical consideration in the operation of batch crystallization processes is 
seed properties. Previous researchers have reported that seed properties have a great effect on 
the batch outcome, and are possibly more important than the supersaturation trajectory. 
Kubota et al. [12] published an empirical correlation for the relationship between the average 
seed size and critical seed loading: 
* 6 22.17 10s sC L
  , where *sC  is the critical seed loading 
ratio and sL  is the seed crystal size. The seed loading ratio sC  is the ratio of the initial seed 
mass to the theoretical crystal yield, and the critical seed loading ratio is the seed loading 
ratio that effectively suppresses nucleation. The basic idea is that the larger the seeds, the 
greater seed mass that is required since the surface area to volume ratio decreases as the seed 
size increases. 
However, this empirical correlation was developed using experimental results from a 
case particular case study system (and later found to match results from a second case study 
system).  It would be interesting to see whether a similar result applies to results from 
numerical simulations of crystallization processes, and whether a similar correlation could be 
developed for the generic dimensionless model of Ward et al. 
4 
exponent j. It is clear that the trajectories are significantly different. In particular, as the 
exponent j increases, there is a pronounced increase in the optimal growth rate at the 
beginning of the batch. For j=0, the optimal growth rate trajectory is strictly increasing, 
whereas for j=2 and j=3, the optimal trajectory passes through a minimum. 
 These results can be interpreted as follows: If j=0, then the nucleation rate does not 
depend on the third moment of the crystal size distribution. There is no incentive to have a 
higher crystal growth rate at the beginning of the batch, because nuclei formed at the 
beginning of the batch will have a greater opportunity to grow to a larger size. Conversely, if 
j=3, then there is a very strong dependence of the nucleation rate on the third moment of the 
crystal size distribution.  
Figure 2 shows a seed chart generated based on the mathematical model of the 
crystallization of potassium nitrate presented by Chung et al. [8]. The solid blue line, called 
the ideal growth line, represents the case where nucleation is negligible and the dominant 
phenomena is the growth of the seeds. (This will yield a unimodal product crystal size 
distribution if the seed distribution is unimodal).  
Figure 3 shows a plot of the critical seed loading versus seed volume mean size. The 
critical seed loading is defined as the seed loading that results in 99% of the solute that is 
consumed contributing to seed growth (only one percent of the solute is present in nucleated 
crystals).  
The data are reasonably close to the results predicted by the empirical relationship, 
but the results suggest that a range of values may be more appropriate than a single numerical 
value in the correlation. In the near future, we expect that we can apply this method to our 
generalized, dimensionless crystallization model and use published data on a number of 
crystallization systems to develop a range of values for parameters in the expression for the 
critical seed loading ratio. 
Preliminary results (not shown) also indicate that when the actual seed loading is near 
to the critical seed loading, the effect of the saturation concentration trajectory on the product 
crystal size distribution is small. This suggests that if a suitable amount of seeds is used, then 
it may not be worthwhile to determine the optimal saturation concentration trajectory or 
attempt to measure supersaturation online during the batch. 
Conclusions and Future Work 
We have made important progress in developing shortcut methods for the operation of batch 
crystallization processes. We have demonstrated the effect that the form of the nucleation 
6 
12. N. Kubota and M. Onosawa, Seeded batch crystallization of ammonium aluminum 
sulfate from aqueous solution. Journal of Cryst Growth. 2009, 311 (20), 4525-4529. 
13. J. D. Ward, C. C. Yu and M. F. Doherty, A new framework and a simpler method for the 
development of batch crystallization recipes, AIChE Journal . Published online April 21, 
2010. 
14. D. Sarkar, S. Rohani and A. Jutan, Multi-objective optimization of seeded batch 
crystallization processes. Chemical Engineering Science. 2006, 61 (16), 5282-5295. 
Figures 
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
t'
G
'
 
Figure 1: Dimensionless growth rate versus dimensionless time for different values of j: 
j=0, j=1, j=2, j=3. 
8 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術
或應用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之
可能性）、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關
價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一
綜合評估 
    ☑     達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ☑ 撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ☑ 無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中  ☑ 無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成
果之學術或應用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價
值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以 500 字為限） 
 
I feel that the project was completed successfully. The students that were 
funded under this research project are making good progress on their 
degrees. They have made important discoveries that will be of interest to 
both industrial practitioners and academic researchers in the area of 
crystallization. I expect that we will be able to prepare two or three 
manuscripts based on this research that will be accepted for publication in 
major international research journals. We may also present the results of 
this research at one or more academic conferences. 
 
 2 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
No. 
四、建議 
The conference was very big. There were a lot of sessions and so much programming that there were only 
a few people in most of the sessions. It might be better to have fewer sessions. 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
No. 
六、其他 
None. 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳哲夫 計畫編號：98-2218-E-002-025- 
計畫名稱：批次結晶最適化之簡捷方法 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100% 
We will prepare 
journal articles 
for publication 
related to this 
research later.
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
We may prepare 
conference 
papers about 
this research 
later. 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
