High-Luminance Inorganic Electroluminescent Devices with an Amorphous 
Diamond Film as Cathode Material 
 
Sea-Fue Wang,1* Jui-Chen Pu,1 Tzu-Piao Tang1 and James C. Sung1, 2 
1 Department of Materials and Mineral Resources Engineering, 
National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan; 
2 KINIK Company, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Abstract Diamond like carbon (DLC) thin film was first time used as the cathode layers of the 
inorganic electroluminescent (EL) devices. The results indicated that EL with DLC cathode has 
superior brightness over the ELs with Al or Cr-doped DLC cathodes. This is due to the energy 
barrier for electrons to emit from the electrode can be greatly decreased when uses the DLC film as 
electrode, which possesses a negative electron affinity. The EL device with DLC cathode possesses 
the lowest decay rate among various cathodes, because of the high thermal conductivity and the 
inert nature of DLC film. 
Keywords: Diamond like carbon, electroluminescent, luminosity, phosphor. 
 
 
1. Introduction 
Among the mature display technologies, 
the rise of electroluminescent display (ELD) is 
justified by the advantages including wide 
viewing angle, wide operation temperature 
ranges and inherent ruggedness. 
Electroluminescent (EL) device has a long 
history that traces back to 1936 when Destriau 
discovered that the ZnS powder dispersed in 
castor oil could be illuminated by applying an 
AC electrical field. According to the nature of 
phosphor materials, inorganic and organic ELs 
can be categorized.  Inorganic EL technology 
is a dark horse in the display race because of its 
increasingly rapid progress and undeniable 
advantages in image quality and manufacturing 
simplicity [1].  
There are two major obstacles that EL has 
not overcome, viz., the high voltage required to 
trigger the illumination, and the rapid decay of 
the luminosity with time. Though, diamond-like 
carbon (DLC) has been used as an electron 
injection layer in organic light emitting diodes 
(OLED) [2-4], a cathode material in field 
emission display [5], a buffer layer in polymeric 
electroluminescent device (PLED) [6], and a 
nano-electrode in electrochemistry [7], up to 
now, it has not been employed in inorganic ELs 
yet. In this letter, diamond like carbon (DLC) 
and Cr doped-DLC thin film were used as 
cathode electrode for the inorganic ELDs. For 
comparison, a conventional EL device with Al 
electrode, which is a low work-function metal 
and commonly used for EL’s cathode, was 
fabricated. PL spectra measurement, 
electroluminescent brightness, intensity, and 
aging characteristics of the EL devices were 
characterized. The effects of cathode materials 
on the performance of EL devices were 
discussed. 
 
2. Experimental Procedure 
 EL devices with the cross-sectional 
structure shown in Figure 1 were used in this 
study.  Amorphous diamond films were 
deposited on Si substrate by a cathodic arc PVD. 
Si wafers was firstly etched by Ar ions for 20 
min. Subsequently, it was implanted with C 
ions under a high bias for 1 min. The wafer was 
then bombarded by C ions at a lower energy to 
deposit amorphous diamond. Cr doped-DLC 
thin film was prepared in such way that Cr 
interlayer was deposited first, then Cr 
doped-DLC was coated on the top of the Cr 
interlayer. Cr doped-DLC film and the Cr 
interlayer were deposited in the same chamber 
with a Cr target and a graphite target in Ar 
discharge under the same negative bias of 20 V. 
The arc current was 40 A for Cr and 80 A for 
graphite. Qualitative chemical analysis on the 
Cr-doped film was performed by an Auger 
Electron Spectroscopy (AES), to determine the  
0 400 800 1200 1600 2000
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
. u
.)
Raman Shift (cm-1)
 
 
(b) Cr doped-DLC film (10x)
(a) DLC film
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 3.  Raman spectra for (a) DLC film and (b) 
Cr doped-DLC film. 
 
Figure 3 shows the Raman spectra 
examined for DLC film and Cr doped-DLC 
film, which were used to identify the sp3 and 
sp2 bond conversion. The distinct two broad 
peaks located at about 1350 cm-1 and 1550 cm-1 
agree well with those in the literature for the 
characteristic Raman D band, associated with 
disordered of graphite, and G band, associated 
with crystalline graphite, of DLC film [9]. 
Raman spectrum of the DLC shown in Figure 
3(a) indicates a strong peak intensity of DLC 
film, that manifests the existence of sp2 and sp3 
bond. Whereas, Figure 3(b) shows that the 
intensity of Raman spectra for Cr doped-DLC 
film is quite weak relative to the DLC film, 
which represents a faint bonding of graphitic 
phase.  This is consistent with that reported in 
the literature, that the C gradually loose its sp3 
type bonding and the DLC network steadily 
break down as the Cr content in the film 
increases [10-12]. 
 
Table 1 shows the resistivities and the sheet 
resistances of Al, DLC and Cr-DLC films. As 
expected, the Al film possesses the lowest 
resistivity and sheet resistance, followed by the 
Cr-doped in DLC film and then DLC film. 
Doping with low level of chromium was 
reported to create a two-dimensional array of 
metal clusters within the DLC matrix and 
maintain a metallic bonding, which is of interest 
for used as nano-electrodes in electrochemistry 
[11]. The DLC film possesses the highest 
resistivity, because the higher the sp3 structure 
exists in DLC film, generally, the more the 
insulating property is obtained [13].  
Figure 4 shows the comparison of 
electroluminescent brightness against applied 
voltage for the EL devices with various cathode 
films. Among the three cathode materials, the 
EL device with DLC cathode yields the highest 
brightness intensity. EL Luminance for device 
with Al cathode is similar to that with Cr doped 
DLC cathode. They, though possess lower 
resistivities, have much lower luminance than 
that with DLC cathode. The high luminance of 
EL with DLC cathode could be explained by 
the negative electron affinity of DLC film, 
which brought the electron injection 
enhancement. Also, amorphous diamond 
(tetrahedral amorphous carbon) contains carbon 
atoms with mostly in distorted diamond 
bonding (sp3). It has the highest atomic density 
[>176 (nm)3 among all materials (e.g. four 
times higher than most closest packed metals). 
Because each atom is unique in the distortion of 
tetrahedral bonds, there are numerous discrete 
energy levels for electrons to perch on.  The 
work function of the DLC is clearly lower than 
those of Al and Cr-doped DLC. 
Figure 5 shows the electroluminescent 
spectra of the EL with DLC film as cathode 
electrode at various applied voltage. The EL 
spectra shows the emission band at around 460 
~ 500 nm, which corroborates the presence of 
the ZnS:Cu phosphor. The emission intensity of 
the EL devices increases with the applied 
voltage, whereas the increase in voltage does 
not affect the emission color. This suggests that 
the voltage has no influence on the spectral 
distribution of the emission. The ZnS:Cu EL is 
having hetero-junction that is comprised of 
n-type semiconductor ZnS and p-type CuxS 
[14]. The EL mechanism is dominated by the 
 
Table 1.  Resistivity and sheet resistance for 
cathodes including Al film, DLC film and Cr 
doped-DLC film. 
 
Cathode 
materials 
Resistivity  
(Ω-cm) 
Sheet resistance 
 (Ω/□) 
Al film 1.212×10-4  2.021×100  
DLC film 2.258×10-2 1.129×103 
Cr-DLC 
film 8.066×10
-4 1.220×101 
Devices with an Aluminum Cathode,＂
Appl. Phys. Lett., 71, 1762–1764 (1997). 
[3] K. Lmimouni, C. Legrand, C. Dufour, A. 
Chapoton, and C. Belouet, “Diamond-Like 
Carbon Films as Electron-Injection Layer 
in Organic Light Emitting Diodes,” Appl. 
Phys. Lett., 78, 2437-2439 (2001). 
[4] D.W. Han, S.M. Jeong, H.K. Baik, S.J. 
Lee, N.C. Yang, D.H. Suh, “Electron 
Injection Enhancement by Diamond-Like 
Carbon Film in Organic 
Electroluminescence Devices,” Thin Solid 
Films, 420-421, 190-194 (2004). 
[5] H. Ma, L. Zhang, N. Yao, B. Zhang, H. Hu, 
and G. Wen, „The Effect of Nitrogen 
Addition on Field Emission of 
Diamond-like Carbon Film,“ Diamond and 
Related Materials, 9, 1608-1611 (2000). 
[6] S.H. Choi, S.M. Jeong, W.H. Koo, S.J. Jo, 
H.K. Baik, S.J. Lee, K.M. Sung, D.W. Han, 
“Diamond-Like Carbon as a Buffer layer 
in Polymeric Electroluminescent Device,” 
Thin Solid Films, 483, 351-357, (2005). 
[7] T.N. Rao, B.H. Loo, B.V. Sarada, C. 
Terashima, and A. Fujishima, 
“Electrochemical Detection of Carbamate 
Pesticides at Conductive Diamond 
Electrodes,” Anal. Chem., 74, 1578-1583 
(2002). 
[8] G. Sharma, S.D. Han, J.D. Kim, S.P. 
Khatkar and Y.W. Rhee, 
“Electroluminescent Efficiency of 
Alternating Current Thick Film Devices 
Using ZnS: Cu, Cl Phosphor,” Materials 
Science and Engineering B, 131, 271–276 
(2006). 
[9] C.L. Chang, J.Y. Jao, T.C. Chang, W.Y. 
Ho and D.Y. Wang, “Influences of Bias 
Voltage on Properties of TiAl-doped DLC 
Coatings Synthesized by Cathodic Arc 
Evaporation,” Diamond & Related 
Materials, 14, 2127 – 2132 (2005).  
[10] X. Fan, E.C. Dickey, S.J. Pennycook, M.K. 
Sunkara, “Z-contrast Imaging and Electron 
Energy-Loss Spectroscopy Analysis of 
Chromium-doped Diamond Like Carbon 
Film,” Appl. Phy. Lett., 75 [18], 2740-42 
(1999). 
[11] V. Singh, V. Palshin, and R.C. Tittsworth, 
“Local Structure of Composite 
Cr-containing Diamond-Like Carbon Thin 
Films,” Carbon, 44, 1280-1286 (2006). 
[12] T.V. Murzina, R.V. Kapra, O.A. 
Aktsipetrov, V.F. Dorfman,  
“Atomic-to-Mesoscopic Scale Structural 
Transition in Metal–Carbon Diamond Like 
Composites Probed by Second-Harmonic 
Generation,” Appl Phys Lett, 83 [23], 
4749-51 (2003). 
[13] M.C. Kan, J.L. Huang, J.C. Sung, K.H. 
Chen and D.F. Li, “Nano-tip Emission of 
Tetrahedral Amorphous Carbon,” 
Diamond and Related Materials, 12, 
1691–1697 (2003). 
[14] T. Kryshtab, V.S. Khomchenko, J.A. 
Andraca-Adame, L.V. Zavyalova, N.N. 
Roshchina, V.E. Rodionov, V.B. 
Khachatryan, “Preparation and Properties 
of Thin ZnS: Cu Films Phosphors,” Thin 
Solid Films, Available online 7 February 
2006.  
