1 
 
目錄: 
 
封面 
目錄   ……………………………………………………………………  1 
中英文摘要及關鍵詞    ………………………………………………   2 
報告內容 
前言  ………………………………………………………………  3 
文獻探討   ………………………………………………………… 3 
研究方法 …………………………………………………………   4 
結果與討論   ……………………………………………………   12 
參考文獻 ………………………………………………………………    13 
計畫成果自評  …………………………………………………………   14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
3 
 
前言 
In this report, we present a technique to improve microlens arrays (MLAs) uniformity after the thermal 
reflow process. It achieved high uniformity and high-NA (numerical aperture) simultaneously without 
sacrificing fill-factor. In order to improve fill-factor, residual PR (photoresist) between the photoresist 
cylinders are used to make photoresist flow outward in standard thermal reflow processes. PR cylinders, 
however, merge together easily due to an inexact reflow time and temperature distribution. This results in low 
uniformity and small lens height or low-NA. We propose a boundary-confined method to pattern thin PR 
holes to prevent PR microlenses from merging together even after a long reflow time. Thick PR cylinders are 
patterned inside thin PR holes served as boundaries. PR microlenses are formed after reflowing the thick 
photoresist cylinders. Both the uniformity and the height of microlens can be well controlled. Besides, the 
fill-factor is high due to the high resolution at thin photoresist layer in photolithography. Our results show that 
the microlens is approximately a hemispherical profile. The gap between microlenses with 48 m diameter in 
hexagonal arrangement is 2 m and the height of microlens is 22 m.  
 
 
 
 
 
文獻探討 
Microlens arrays (MLAs) usually form a layered structure in application-specific optical systems, such 
as backlight modules for liquid crystal displays (LCD) [1], extraction improvement film for layered light 
emitting devices [2], wavefront sensors [3], image recorders [4], and a focusing component in the optical 
communication devices [5]. It is hard to make small lenses and large arrays by traditional machining. 
Although several methods are proposed to replace the traditional machining, thermal reflow process is widely 
used to fabricate MLAs [6, 7]. The thermal reflow process consists of two parts. One is fabrication of the 
photoresist cylinders with specified diameter and height by photolithography. The other is heating the 
cylinders to reflow and form MLAs with spherical profile.  
 
The lens profile achieved by thermal reflow process, however, has some constrains. A negative tone 
PR is not suitable for reflow because of cross-linked molecular structure. A positive tone PR is more 
appropriate, but the fill-factor is usually low because the UV light distribution becomes wider as PR thickness 
increases. The PR cylinders become smaller than the circular patterns defined on the photo mask, which 
results in a low fill-factor. Incomplete development methods have been proposed for high fill-factor MLAs [8]. 
It makes residual PR between cylinder gaps by reducing developer time to 90 % of complete development. 
Then, cylinders extend across those seeds by thermal reflow and improve the fill-factor of MLAs. 
Unfortunately, process parameters must be controlled precisely in the incomplete development method to 
prevent an over or under thermal dose. Otherwise, two adjacent PR cylinders may merge together, which is 
called cling phenomenon [9]. Because cling phenomenon reduces the sag height of microlens, it increases the 
5 
 
Because the light was expanded by the diffraction due to the gaps of mask pattern, the intensity or exposure 
dose per unit volume was decreased. This causes some issues due to different exposure dose at gap and 
non-gap area especially for making microlenses with large height and thick PR layer which the light 
propagates a long distance. The PR pattern at a gap area may not be fully developed with insufficient dose. 
Some residual PR makes the cylinders link together and form a sea star shape instead of separate cylinders. 
Increasing the exposure dose does compensate for the insufficient dose in the gap area and can remove the 
residual PR, but the width of the gap may become larger due to the diffracted light being broader.  
 
 
Figure 1. Schematic drawing of PR reflow by boundary-confined method. 
Although incomplete development method does increase the fill-factor by residual PR around 
cylinders, the precise heating control is difficult in the process. Gradually cooling the MLAs results in shape 
distortion. Therefore, we redesign the fabrication process, called the boundary-confined method. Additional 
micro-holes structures are added before the cylinders are patterned as shown in Fig. 1(b). They become the 
boundary wall between PR cylinders which made by the second positive-tone PR layer aligned above 
micro-holes structure. Because the second PR is thick, the cylinders after UV exposure and developer will 
become a little smaller than the holes, which provide tolerance on alignment. The developer dissolves the 
exposed PR from the top. Residual PR is left only in the bottom between micro-holes PR cylinders and not on 
the wall top by 90% developing time. Reflowing PR expends along the residual PR to the bottom of wall. 
Then, they start to climb up the wall due to the surface tension between vertical wall and the reflowing PR. 
PR stops climbing when reaching the top of the wall. The bullet shape is fixed because there is no more 
flowing even in more thermal heating without considering the vaporization of residual solvent. Every PR 
cylinder forms microlens at each micro hole without merging together or cling phenomenon. This method has 
advantages on increasing fill-factor and eliminating the cling phenomenon. It provides high uniformity over 
large area MLAs fabrication. This process is also tolerant to cool down gradually without changing lens 
profile and increasing stress. 
7 
 
The fabrication steps are shown in Fig. 3. First, a silicon wafer was cleaned by Piranha (H2SO4 + 
H2O2), deionized water and placed into a 120 oC oven for 10 minutes (dehydration bake). 1st thin negative 
photoresist layer (SU-8) was then spun by a spin coater at 4000 rpms for 60 seconds resulting in 4 m 
thickness as Fig. 3(a). The pattern on photo mask is a dark circle array. The pitch of circles is 50 m and the 
gap is 2 um. The pattern on the photo mask was transfer to a SU-8 layer by a mask aligner (Karl Suss MA6) 
and post exposure baked for 120 seconds at 95 oC. Then, we dipped the wafer into SU-8 developer (from 
MicroChem Corp.) for 70 seconds and immersed it in Isopropyl Alcohol (IPA) for 10 seconds. Micro holes 
arrays were formed, as shown in Fig. 3(b). Then, it was hard baked for 10 minutes at 200 oC on a hot plate. 
This further made crosslink inside material and the SU-8 became more stable in the following process steps. 
Because 1st PR layer served as a wall to stop 2nd PR layer from flowing, 4 um thickness or wall height is 
enough. This thickness is available using SU-8 3005 (from MicroChem Corp.) without diluted solution (SU8 
Thinner). Increasing the height of 1st PR increases the radius of curvature of microlens or costs additional 
thickness in 2nd PR to keep the same sag height. Currently, we chose 25 m thick of 2nd PR layer, different 
radius of curvatures are available by adjusting the thickness of positive-tone PR. After that, a second thick 
photoresist layer (AZ-P4620) was spun on at 800 rpms for 30 seconds resulting in 25 m thickness. To 
prevent non-uniform thickness of 2nd PR at spin coating, the dispensed 2nd PR rotates at 300 rpm for 5 seconds 
and covers the entire micro holes area. After 165 seconds of soft bake at 100 oC, PR cylinders were formed by 
UV exposure with the same photo mask in previous step. Because UV light passes the clear region of mask 
that forms wall structure made of negative PR (SU-8) as Fig 3(b). This clear region is exactly the exposed 
area of positive PR (AZ-P4620) which forms cylinder array as Fig 3(c). UV lighting removes positive PR and 
does not affect negative PR. There is a little circular gap between cylinders of AZ-P4620 and boundary wall 
of SU-8 due to the different characteristic of positive and negative PR after exposure. Notice that in Fig. 3(c), 
we used 90% developing time to make some residual PR on the bottom of gaps. The full developing time is 
240 seconds based on a dummy test wafer and the wafer is dipped in developer for 210 seconds. We stirred 
the developer to ensure uniform developing over the entire area. Finally, the wafer was placed on a hot plate 
and heated at 150 oC. Melting PR cylinder with 50 m pitch and hexagonal arrangement formed MLAs as 
shown in Fig. 3(d). The relationship between theoretical and experimental data is summarized in table 1. 
 
Figure 3. The fabrication steps of Boundary- confined method. (a) SU-8 spins on a wafer. (b) Micro holes 
formed after UV exposure and development. (c) AZ-P4620 cylinder patterned in the holes. (d) Reflow. 
 
 
9 
 
Gap Ratio B Square (0.785*B) Hexagonal (0.907*B)
Zero 1 78.5 % 90.7 %
2 um 0.92 72.3 % 83.7 %
4 um 0.85 66.4 % 76.8 %
6 um 0.77 60.8 % 70.2 %
Table 2. Gap width vs. fill-factor for 50 um pitch MLAs. 
The pictures of MLAs with and without boundary-confined method after thermal reflow process are 
shown in Fig. 4. Because of boundary-confined method, each microlens is confined without overlapping as 
Fig 4(a). In contrast, there is no significant boundary between each microlens at the case without the 
boundary-confined method as Fig 4(b). If we kept heating, the dark spot or non-PR-covered-region will fill, 
and the cylinder continues to flow out. It will become a plane PR. For comparison, we covered part of a mask 
at exposure to make some region without a boundary wall. In the case without boundary, melting PR started 
to cling together because of residual PR and overheating. In contrast, the melting PR in boundary-confined 
case is confined by SU-8 wall, no microlens merge together. This is because the PR at the top of the boundary 
wall is fully removed at 90% developing time. The residual PR only exists on the bottom of the region 
between wall and cylinder. At the reflow process, the melting PR cylinders attracted by the residual PR and 
flow outward by surface tension. When they touch the wall, no more residual PR exists and no more flowing 
continues. Fig. 6 shows the comparison of lens profile. If the wall is removed, two cylinders merge together as 
a dash line. The fill-factor of MLA is relative to the arrangement and gap of each lens as shown in table 2. 
One hundred percent fill-factor is expected only at square lens. But gaps are necessary to separate individual 
cylinder or rectangular block to form microlens. As gap g increases, 
TotalArea
LensAreafactorFill 
 
2




 gD
DB
 
B
gD
DHexagonalfactorFill
B
gD
DSquarefactorFill
*907.0~
32
)(
*785.0~
4
)(
2
2












 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3) 
11 
 
 
Figure 7. The fabrication process sequence, and (a) PR microlens and SU-8 boundary, (b) PDMS mold 
captured by a microscope, (c) UV gel MLAs after releasing from PDMS mold. 
 
 
 
Figure 8. The lens profile scanned by a surface profiler. Only upper parts of microlenses are scanned due to 
the tip size of surface profiler.  
 
To compare the thermal stability, we heated the diced MLA chips at different time as Table 3. The 
results show that 30 seconds of heating time at 150 oC is enough for thermal reflow. However, more heating 
time or thermal dose is tolerable in the proposed boundary-confined method. We only need to care that the air 
bubbles, which seldom forms below 1 minutes heating time. This effect is significant at large area MLAs. It is 
critical for large area application such as LCD backlighting. The thermal ramp and distribution is a critical 
issue. Hemispherical microlenses merge into non-hemispherical ones because of over thermal dose at some 
points. Thus, uniformity is degraded. Once the PR MLA is fabricated, we can transfer it to optical polymer 
film by some replicate techniques like hot embossing, PDMS molding, UV gel molding and so on. Fig. 7(b) is 
a picture of PDMS mold, which is made by releasing thermal cured PDMS liquid spun on the PR MLA. It is 
clear that each cavity is separated by a narrow boundary around 2 m. Fig. 7(c) is the SEM image of UV gel 
MLA, which is made of NOA 71 (from Norland, refractive index, n = 1.56) dispensed on PDMS mold then 
13 
 
photolithography steps are needed in the process. After lithography processes, the positive PR is a slightly 
little smaller than the circular pattern on a photomask and negative PR is slightly larger than it. Two tones of 
PR increase tolerance to mask alignment. Fill-factor is high because of high resolution on a thin boundary. All 
of flowing PR is stopped by the boundary; uniformity is improved without tight thermal dose constrains. 
Meanwhile, microlenses with a large height or high-NA are achievable due to “no cling” effect. The method 
has advantages, not only for large area MLAs but also for a microlens that require precision diameter or 
positioning. Besides, we replicate MLAs with the optical polymer to verify some optical specifications. Both 
the fabrication and replication are straightforward and reliable. 
 
參考文獻 
1.  Shieh H-P D, Huang Y-P and Chien K-W 2005 Micro-optics for liquid crystal displays applications 
IEEE/OSA Journal of Display Technology 1 62-76 
2.  Peng H, Ho Y L, Yu X-J, Wong M and Kwok H-S 2005 Coupling efficiency enhancement in organic 
light-emitting devices using microlens array - Theory and experiment IEEE/OSA Journal of Display 
Technology 1 278-82 
3.  Yoon G Y, Jitsuno T, Nakatsuka M and Nakai S 1996 Shack Hartmann wave-front measurement with a 
large F-number plastic microlens array Applied Optics 35 188-92 
4.  Baillie D A and Gendler J E 2004 Zero-space microlenses for CMOS image sensors: Optical modeling 
and lithographic process development.  (Santa Clara, CA, United States: The International Society 
for Optical Engineering, Bellingham, United States) pp 953-9 
5.  Toshiyoshi H, Su G-D J, LaCosse J and Wu M C 2003 A surface micromachined optical scanner array 
using photoresist lenses fabricated by a thermal reflow process Journal of Lightwave Technology 21 
1700-8 
6.  Ottevaere H, Cox R, Herzig H P, Miyashita T, Naessens K, Taghizadeh M, Volkel R, Woo H J and 
Thienpont H 2006 Comparing glass and plastic refractive microlenses fabricated with different 
technologies Journal of Optics A: Pure and Applied Optics 8 407-29 
7.  Daly D, Stevens R F, Hutley M C and Davies N 1990 Manufacture of microlenses by melting photoresist 
Measurement Science & Technology 1 759-66 
8.  Yang H, Chao C-K, Wei M-K and Lin C-P 2004 High fill-factor microlens array mold insert fabrication 
using a thermal reflow process Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering 14 1197-204 
9.  Hyun H N, Jeong L P, Jae S C and Jeong G L 2007 The optimization of zero-spaced microlenses for 
2.2um pixel CMOS image sensor.  (San Jose, CA, United states: SPIE) p SPIE 
10. Wei M-K, Su I L, Chen Y-J, Chang M, Lin H-Y and Wu T-C 2006 The influence of a microlens array on 
planar organic light-emitting devices Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering 16 368-74 
11. Kwon H, Yee Y, Jeong C-H, Nam H-J and Bu J-U 2008 A high-sag microlens array film with a full fill 
factor and its application to organic light emitting diodes Journal of Micromechanics and 
Microengineering 18 
12. Stefan Sinzinger and Jürgen Jahns 2003 "Refractive Microoptics," Chap. 5 in Microoptics 2e, Wiley-VCH, 
pp. 94-95 
15 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
Deformable mirrors can be applied  not only to adaptive optics, but also to microscope. For 
example, a research scientist at the Center for Automation Technologies and Systems at Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., wants to view small objects over long distances. Others at the 
center who are working on robotic micromanipulation and assembly would like to magnify small 
objects over large areas. The problem is that physics and real-life optics get in the way. “As the 
resolution of the microscope increases to observe smaller features, the field of view — the region of 
the object that can be observed — decreases.”  
To get around this, we can turn to deformable mirror technology. One could construct an 
adaptive scanning optical microscope that employs the deformable mirror to correct for off-axis 
aberrations in a custom scanner lens. This new approach enables a field of view that is two orders of 
magnitude larger at the same resolution than a conventional microscope’s, citing a design with a 
40-mm-diameter field of view at a resolution of 1.5 µm by theoretical calculations.  
We do expect that the researchers in this project can learn both device integration and software 
control. Again, I would like to address the three important hardware/software developed in the 
project 
 Wavefront sensors 
 Deformable mirrors 
 Control systems 
All participants can learn from cleanroom process, image sensors, optical system design, control 
circuits, software integration, and the most important TEAM WORK. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
新研究，可以聽到一些教授他們目前所正在研究的方向與目標。 
每天的傍晚時刻，便是海報的時間，這時候在會場裡面會張貼著某幾個領域的
海報(Poster papers)，同時供小點心方便大家討論時可以順便吃點小東西。在展示海
報的地方同時也有廠商代表，提供他們最新的資訊給會議的參加者。最後一天的下
午，還有幾個小型的演講，是邀請大學的教授還有外面公司的人前來和大家分享新
的研究和議題。 
本次會議辦得很成功，唯一可惜的地方就是無法參與到全部的演講，因為為了
節省時間必須要分成四個演講廳同時進行。這是我第一次參加國際會議，不僅對我
來說很新鮮也得到很寶貴的經驗。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次學生陳凱鑫發表之論文題目是「MEMS Double-Decoupled Gyroscope with an 
Enhanced Operation Bandwidth」，此篇文章被會議委員選為口頭報告論文。在口頭報
告完畢後，有幾位學者提出數個問題進行討論，這些問題不僅提供良好的建議並讓
我了解本論文的實驗哪裡尚有不足，必須進行更深入的研究；所有種種都使我受益
良多。 
在這次的會議遇到了許多來自亞太地區的研究生，包括日本、韓國、中國大陸、
臺灣、與澳洲本地的學生，大家互相分享作研究以及實驗的過程，並互相學習對方
的長處以及請教別人自己不足的地方，這種機會真的是難得可貴。同時藉由參加國
際會議的這個機會，認識了許多同領域的學生以及研究人員，對於在未來的研究與
工作皆有莫大幫助。 
 4
 
本人於開幕酒會時與會場入口海報合影 
 
 
 
本人口頭報告照片 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
