 2
 
本產學合作計畫研發成果及績效達成情形自評表  
成果項目 本產學合作計畫預估研究成果及績效指標 （作為本計畫後續管考之參據） 計畫達成情形 
技術移轉 預計技轉授權 1 項  完成技轉授權  1  項 
國內 預估  1  件 提出申請  1  件，獲得 1 件
專利 
國外 預估  1  件 提出申請  1  件，獲得 1 件
博士  1 人，畢業任職於業界 1  人 
博士 0  人，畢業任職於業
界  0  人 
碩士  3 人，畢業任職於業界 3  人 
碩士 1  人，畢業任職於業
界  1  人 人才培育 
其他  0 人，畢業任職於業界  0 人 
其他  0 人，畢業任職於業
界  0  人 
期刊論文  1  件 發表期刊論文  0  件 
研討會論文  2   件 發表研討會論文  0  件 
SCI論文  0  件 發表SCI論文  0  件 
專書  0  件 完成專書  0  件 
國內 
技術報告  1  件 完成技術報告  1  件 
期刊論文  0  件 發表期刊論文  0  件 
學術論文  0  件 發表學術論文  0  件 
研討會論文  2  件 發表研討會論文  1  件 
SCI/ SSCI論文  1  件 發表SCI/ SSCI論文  0  件 
專書  0  件 完成專書  0  件 
論文著作 
國外 
技術報告  0  件 完成技術報告  0  件 
其他協助產業發
展之具體績效 新公司或衍生公司   1   家 
設立新公司或衍生公司 (名
稱)： 全粒科技股份有限公司
其他 
藉由本計畫的實施，除可生產一新型可量產之燒結滾珠熱沉之外，更可衍生出
數項新技術與新製程，包含雙轉子風扇技術、金屬擴散成型技術、異種金屬接
合技術，滾珠燒結製程，滾珠成型製程與滾珠振動整平製程等。 
註：其他實際完成之研究成果及績效請於「其他」欄內補充填寫。 
 
 
 4
Computer chip always accompanied by the increase of heat dissipation and miniaturization. 
Increased miniaturization, higher power densities, and demands on system performance and 
reliability in electronic systems have necessitated more aggressive heat removal techniques in the 
thermal management of electronic components. 
In recent years, the data processing units (CPUs) in personal computers or workstation, has 
progressed dramatically, resulting in a significant increase in the heat fluxes generated in these 
microchips, which have reached 100 W/cm2 in the late 2000s [1]. For this reason, various types 
of cooling systems have been developed as thermal solutions. The fan-integrated heat sink is the 
most widely used type of the cooling device due to its high price-performance ratio. 
Raj Bahadur and Avram Bar-Cohen try to design and optimization methodology of a 
thermally conductive polyphenylene sulphide (PPS) polymer staggered pin fin heat sink, for an 
advanced natural convection cooled microprocessor application, are described using existing 
analytical equations.[2] Emre Ozturk and Ilker Tari studied Three different commercial heat sink 
designs are analyzed by using commercial computational fluid dynamics software packages 
Icepak and Fluent [3].  
Pin-fins, cross-cut fins, and augmented fins are studied and used of the approaches taken by 
different manufacturers to implementing fin segmentation.   
Seo Young Kim and Ralph L. Webb do an analysis of convective thermal resistance in ducted 
fan-heat sinks. Analysis of convective thermal resistance for plate-fin, inline round pin-fin, 
staggered round pin-fin, and offset strip-fin heat sink has been performed in the present study [4]. 
Hun Sik Han et al. shows the heat sink design method for a thermoelectric cooling system. And 
the optimized louver fin heat sink has a lowest outlet air temperature with a reduced air flow rate 
due to a higher pressure drop [5]. Tae Young Kim et al. presents a special novel heat sink with 
moving fins inserted between cooling fins is suggested for electronics cooling applications. In the 
novel heat sink, instead of the fan module, moving fins are inserted in the intervals of fixed fins 
(cooling fins) for generating fluid flow [6]. In recent year, many paper to design the heat sink, 
whatever optimization, design and management, and new type of heat sink.  
In this paper, we try to improve the overall surface area to enhanced the heat transfer translates 
directly into improved thermal performance. The paper used the bead to build a heat sink which 
can easy to increase the surface area directly. 
 
 
 
2. The copper bead heat sink (CBHS) 
From the idea the CBHS is different to traditional plan fin heat sink. The fin of CBHS is made 
by many hollow copper spheres to build a heat sink. A CBHS configured shown in Figure 1. The 
fabrication processes include copper bead made, sintering bead fin and the coaxial rotor on a fan. 
This design is in order to increase the heat transfer area. Hollow structure not only cost down the 
price, but increase the effect of the heat reduction. Figure 2 shows the CBHS combine without 
and with a coaxial rotor on the center of the fan. The airflow made by fan will build a no wind 
area on the center of CBHS, which just like a typhoon eye. We hope the fan combine a coaxial 
rotor can agitated the air to improve the heat convection effect on the center of CBHS.  
 
 6
 
 
Figure 2. CBHS combine without and with a coaxial rotor on the center of the fan. 
 
3. Experimental Setup 
The CPU cooling test apparatus are shown in figure 3 and figure 4. Figure 3 shows a CPU 
cooler device includes a heat input device, pressure gauge, temperature monitor and computer 
catch device. Figure 4 shows the heating system used a bar material thermal conduction test 
system. The cartridge heater is embedded in a square aluminum rod of 31 mm × 31 mm 
cross-section. There are three thermocouples (PT-100) installed in the top, middle and bottom of 
aluminum rod. The two thermocouples are used to calculate the heat flux and the surface 
temperature of aluminum rod. The third thermocouple used to check the calculation results. By 
the conception of Fourier Law and ASTM-5470 D Thermal Guard to calculate the heating surface 
temperature, thermal resistance and the heat flux. 
 
 
Figure 3. CPU cooler test device 
 8
5. Conclusions 
Preliminary result showed that the minimum value for the total thermal resistance is 0.48 
°C/W under 65W input power. The heater surface temperature is around 51 °C. The results of the 
bead fan are almost the same by clockwise and counterclockwise. The holes on the bottom cannot 
bring better performance. The wind can’t go through those holes into the sink center. Research 
work is continuing for the heat transfer enhance of CBHS. 
The overall surface area compare with the same size stamping form heat sink will increase more 
than 4 times. By the other way, we also make a bowl type vapor chamber inside CBHS. Primary 
result show that the total thermal resistance will decrease to 0.24 °C/W. In the future study will 
use a special design to arrangement the bead which can decrease the pressure drop of air flow and 
increase the performance again. 
 
References 
1. Koito Y., Imura H., Mochizuki M., Saito Y.,Toric S., “Numerical analysis and experimental 
verificatin on thermal fluid phenomena in a vapor chamber.” Apply Thermal Engineering, 
2006, vol.26, pp. 1669-1676. 
2. Raj Bahadur and Avram Bar-Cohen., “Thermal Design and Optimization of Natural 
Convection Polymer Pin Fin Heat Sinks,” Trans. Comp. Packag. Technol., Vol. 28, No. 2, 
JUNE 2005, pp.238-246. 
3. Emre Ozturk and Ilker Tari, “Forced Air Cooling of CPUs with Heat Sinks：A Numerical 
Study,” IEEE Trans. Comp. Packag. Technol., Vol.131, September 2008, pp. 650-660.  
4. Seo Young Kim and Ralph L. Webb, “Analysis of Convective Thermal Resistance in Ducted 
Fan-Heat Sinks,” IEEE Transactions on components and packaging technologies, Vol. 29, No. 
3, September 2006. pp. 439-448. 
5. Hun Sik Han et al., ” Heat Sink Design for a Thermoelectric Cooling System,” ITherm 2008, 
pp. 1222-1230. 
6. Tae Young Kim et al., “Scroll Heat Sink: a Heat Sink With The Moving Fins Inserted 
Between The Cooling Fins, “International Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer,  2008, Vol. 51, 
pp. 3267-3274 
 
技術特點說明： 
本計畫提出一種新的散熱器製造方法，利用顆粒堆疊結合成型之技術，可使該散熱器
表面具有更多的表面積，藉以提昇極佳的熱轉換效率，以相同體積的散熱器，即能創造更
優質的散熱效能，或以更小體積之散熱器，即能創造出相同的散熱效能，並能利用較為簡
易的製造流程，即可完成成品，藉以提高產能，降低成本。 
本技術特點就功效性而言，利用簡易的特徵改變，在變更散熱器外觀尺寸的條件下，
使散熱片形成最大的表面積，使得散熱器的散熱效率發揮極致的表現，藉此一特性，可令
散熱片的外觀尺寸縮小還能夠達到預期的散熱效果。另就成本而言，本計畫之製程僅須開
設一組多孔穴的模具，將導熱部與顆粒體倒入模具中加壓加溫後，即可成型，經由本計畫
所製成之散熱器成品並不需要作裁切、去毛邊等製程，同時原料使用亦可較為精簡，更不
會有廢料的產生，整體重量更低，使得成本能夠大幅的降低，且若遇到成本與散熱功效需
求相衝突時，可將導熱部採用成本較高，且導熱係數高材質，如銀或銅等，而鰭片部得採
用成本較低，但導熱係數中上等級的材質，如鋁等。 
