    2 
 複雜的製造雙鑲嵌結構方法，不管是哪一種方法都必須使用兩道光罩微影步驟分別定義中介窗(via)
與溝槽(trcnch)，也需要至少兩次蝕刻、兩次灰化(ash)、兩次洗淨步驟。在一道先進光罩約二百萬台幣
的情況下，一金屬層需要兩道光罩，而且在內連線層數不斷增加的趨勢下，積體電路光罩的成本將是一
個龐大的負擔。另外，在兩道光罩之瞄準(alignment)上一定會有瞄準誤差(mis-alignment)，在 IC 線寬
不斷縮小的情況下，最小線寬與可以容忍的瞄準誤差(misalignment tolerance)已相差不遠，微影步驟
重做(rework)以得到更好的瞄準將會更頻繁，而微影步驟又是昂貴的製程，因此增加了龐大的製造成本。
瞄準誤差大，更是導致良率低與可靠度不良的主要因素，在線寬急劇縮小、金屬層越來越多的情況下，
瞄準誤差(或微影步驟重做)將只會更嚴重，也是一個不容忽視的極重要問題。 
 本計畫研發一特殊相位移光罩及此特殊光罩相關的微影、蝕刻技術，利用此單一特殊相位移光罩即
可製作出雙鑲嵌(dual damascene)結構，不需要使用傳統的二道光罩，以節省一半昂貴的銅製程光罩製
作費用、並簡化雙鑲嵌製程的複雜性。只有一次的蝕刻、灰化、洗淨步驟，節省一半製程成本，並徹底
解決傳統雙鑲嵌製程二道光罩間瞄準誤差的問題，因為我們只需一道特殊相位移光罩即可製作出雙鑲嵌
結構；不僅如此，更重要的是製程與產品良率及可靠度得以大幅提高。 
 本計畫投了兩篇 SCI 論文，一篇論文投至 Microelectronic Engineering (in revision)報導模擬雙
鑲嵌相位移光罩及此光罩的雙鑲嵌微影，另一篇論文以做出特殊光罩及此特殊光罩的雙鑲嵌微影、蝕刻
技術投至 SCI 期刊 (Journal of Micro/Nanolithography, MEMS, and MOEMS). 此計畫報告就以此兩篇
SCI 論文做結果報告。 
 
Abstract 
 Dual damascene process has been used for copper interconnect. There are many schemes to 
fabricate dual damascene structure. For example: via first scheme starts with via mask and via etch 
followed by trench mask and trench etch; trench first scheme starts with trench mask and trench etch 
followed by via mask and via etch. Self aligned scheme use middle etch stop to obtain uniform trench 
depth. It uses one dielectric etch to complete pre-aligned dual damascene etch. Adding one or two hard 
masks on top of dielectric layer helps etch margin and selectivity. Which mask first, using etch stop and 
hard masks or not and the use of ultra low k materials in advanced interconnect make dual damascene 
process very complicated.  
 No matter which dual damascene scheme used all of them need two masks, two etches, two ashes 
and two wet clean. One advanced mask cost about 2 million NT$ and one metal layer needs two masks. 
With the increasing trend of metal layers of modern IC, the mask cost will add additional burden on 
already high manufacture cost. With rapidly decreasing chip feature size, the misalignment tolerance is 
not that far from critical dimension (CD). The existence of misalignment between via and trench mask 
will cause more rework on lithography steps. The increases of metal layers and higher rework rate on 
high cost lithography steps can only make things worse. Misalignment will also degrade the process and 
product yield. It is also a reliability killer. 
 This project is to develop a special phase shift mask and related etch, lithography processes. By 
 4
Misalignment also degrades process robustness [5] and product yield [6]. It is also a reliability killer. Reducing the 
manufacturing cost, improving yield and process robustness are the top priorities for IC manufacturers. 
 In this paper we present two methods to fabricate DD structures using just one mask. The unique mask merges 
via and modified trench patterns. We design the trench area of the combined mask having partial transmission using 
thin chromium or add phase shifted gratings on trench area to achieve destructive interference for lowering the 
intensity. Optical proximity correction (OPC) technique is used to obtain desired lithography process window. Upon 
exposure, trench is partially exposed while the via is fully exposed, and a dual damascene photoresist profile is 
created. With the aid of integrated etching, we can transfer DD resist image to dielectric and successfully fabricate DD 
structures with one mask. We also need only one lithographic loop, one integrated etching, one ash and one post clean 
instead of two each processes. The single mask DD process will cut the metal mask cost and process cost in half and 
simplify the DD fabrication process. It eliminates misalignment between via and trench. It will also boost yield and 
improve product reliability. 
2. Integration  
 Cu interconnect lithography has always used two (via and trench) masks to fabricate DD structures. Via’s role is 
to connect top and bottom metal lines and via always lies entirely within metal (trench) layout. We can simply 
combine via into metal layout and design the combined mask capable of printing DD structures on photoresist. 
Transfer of the DD photoresist pattern to underlying dielectric can be achieved by the integrated etching process [7]. 
Other processes like Cu barrier, Cu seed, copper plating and Cu CMP are exactly same as traditional processes. 
 Perfect overlay of via to trench is inherent in the combined mask and is controlled by the mask fabrication 
process. One mask DD process eliminates the need of alignment between via and trench. Freedom from misalignment 
allows borderless via and denser circuit design in all layers. Leakage and reliability of the integrated circuit will be 
significantly improved. Figure 1 shows typical single mask DD structure fabrication steps. A bi-layer or tri-layer 
lithography technique and hard mask process can also be integrated into this single mask process to improve the 
robustness of resist DD image transfer.  
3. Mask design 
 To achieve one exposure having DD shape on photoresist, we need differential exposure energy settings or 
conditions between via and trench areas. Via needs higher or full exposure energy while trench area must use lower or 
partial exposure. Via area can be simply clear to obtain full exposure. To create partial exposure at trench area, we 
used two approaches: (1) partial transmission (Ex: thin Cr) [8] (2) adding zebra pattern phase shifted gratings in the 
trench area to achieve destructive interference [9] for lowering intensity. Examples of the combined mask design are 
shown in Figure 2.  
 For the partial transmission approach, trench area chromium thickness is determined by the desired contrast 
between via and trench as well as the mask transmission coefficient of the DUV used in the lithography tool. For the 
phase shifted grating approach, the phase on the gratings can be created by etching certain thickness d of the mask 
substrate or deposit certain thickness of the phase shift material [10] on designated area. The thickness d is 
determined by the following equation: 
 
 d = (phase/2π) • λ/(n-1) 
 
where phase is the specific phase required on the gratings for destructive interference, n is the reflective index of the 
mask substrate or phase shifting material, and λ is the wavelength used for the exposure. We used Prolith v.9.2 to 
simulate the combined mask structures to study the aerial and resist images using 248 nm wavelength and JSR M91Y 
B KrF resist. Both via and trench target CD were 160 nm. Different phases on gratings, grating width, and optical 
proximity correction (OPC) [11, 12] were used to design and optimize the mask to obtain desired process window. 
4. Simulation results and discussion 
 We simulate the relative intensity of the two approaches taken along the y–axis on the combined mask illustrated 
in Figure 2. For grating approach, grating width affects the exposure light on trench area’s relative intensity. If the 
 6
[10] N. Yoshioka, J. Miyazaki, H. Kusunose, K. Hosono, M. Nakajima, H. Morimoto, Y. Watakabe, and K. Tsukamoto, IEDM 27.2,
 1993, p.653. 
[11] L. S. Melvin III,  Q. Yan and W. F. Kielhorn, Microelectronic Eng. vol. 83, 2006, p.1003. 
[12] H. J. Lee and J. H. Lee, Microelectronic Eng. vol. 77, 2005, p.217.  
[13] S. Miyoshi, T. Furukawa, H. Watanabe, S. Trie, and T. Itani, Proc. SPIE vol. 4690, 2002, p.221. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Typical single mask DD structure fabrication steps (a) resist spin on dielectric stack (b) DD shape 
resist exposure using the combined mask (c) partial via etch (d) continue integrated trench/via etch to complete 
DD image transfer. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Combined mask designs for partial transmission and phase shifted grating approach. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Combined mask 
Phase  
shifted 
OR 
Trench mask 
Chromium 
Thin Cr 
Phase shifted grating 
Via mask 
+ = 
Partial transmission 
dielectric 
bottom metal 
(a) 
dielectric 
bottom metal 
(b) 
resist 
(c) (d) 
resist dielectric etch stop bottom metal 
resist resist 
resist 
 8
-1000 -800 -600 -400 -200 0 200 400 600 800
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Aerial image
 
 
R
el
at
iv
e 
in
te
ns
ity
Position (nm)
Grating phase
        0
       30
       60
       90
     120
     150
     180
 
Figure 5: Grating phase effect of the relative intensity for the phase shifted grating mask with 60 nm grating 
width. 
 
 
 
       
    
Figure 6: Dual damascene photoresist image of the grating mask using 90O grating phase, 60 nm grating width 
and optimized via OPC. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
via 
Trench 
 10
Subject terms: one mask dual damascene process, lithography, partial exposure, dual damascene,  
 mask, copper interconnect. 
 
Introduction 
Dual damascene (DD) process has been widely implemented for advanced integrated 
circuit (IC) wiring [1-4]. Traditional DD process creates wiring metal (trench) and via structure 
using two masks. There are many integration schemes to fabricate DD structure. The most 
common integration approaches to fabricate this architecture are via first, trench first and 
self-align approaches [5-8]. Some schemes used hard mask(s) for etch/ash/CMP process 
margin considerations [9, 10] and trench etch stop layer to gain control of the metal height [11]. 
These combination approaches complicate the DD process and also add extra cost. In addition, 
no matter which dual damascene scheme was used all of them need two masks. Lithography, 
etch, ash, and wet clean processes are also used twice for DD structure fabrication. With the 
increasing trend of metal layers of modern IC, the mask cost is a huge burden on 
manufacturing cost. With rapidly decreasing chip feature size, the overlay control is a difficult 
challenge [12]. The unavoidable misalignment between via and trench mask will cause more 
rework on lithography steps. The increment of the metal layers and the higher rework rate on 
high cost lithography steps significantly diminish the profit margin. Misalignment will also 
degrade the process and product yield [13]. It is also a reliability killer. 
 Previously, we reported the simulation results of one mask DD process with two different 
approaches using KLA-Tencor’s Prolith v.9.2 software [14]. In this paper, we demonstrate the 
process technique to fabricate DD structure on oxide layer using one mask.  
 Since via is used to connect two levels of metals so via always lies on metal layout. Our mask 
combines via and metal layout. The metal (trench) portion of the mask is semi-transparent for 
partial exposure while via portion is clear for fully exposure. This mask creates DD structure in 
photoresist layer in one exposure. We then transfer the photoresist DD structure to underlying 
 12
using this exposure condition is shown in Figure 5. The photoresist remaining on trench and 
opaque region are 250 nm and 550 nm respectively. An optimized optical proximity correction 
(OPC) can improves DD photoresist profile.  
Mask Fabrication and Transmission Measurements  
To demonstrate the feasibility of one mask dual damascene structure process, we used 
OAI 3HR/IR aligner and mercury lamp as light source to fabricate “quasi” dual damascene 
structure due to lack of 248nm lithography tools in our lab. This technique can be easily 
implemented to other lithography. 
This experiment’s corresponding light intensity and trench Cr thickness need to be 
designed and measured to fabricate the mask. UV-meter, OAI-306, was used to measure the 
mercury lamp light intensity that passed through the quartz mask. Figure 6 shows the relation 
of the mask aligner’s exposure energy as function of the Cr thickness. Light pass through Cr 
film with thicknesses of 17 nm, 22 nm, 34 nm, 39 nm, 46 nm, 58 nm, 66 nm, 70 nm, and 85 
nm was measured. Full UV energy ~7mJ/cm2 was measured at clear area (no Cr). However, 
when Cr film is thicker than 58nm all UV energy was adsorbed by the material. From this data, 
22 nm Cr was picked for trench area to fabricate the combined mask. The corresponding 
exposure energy is about 2.7 mJ/cm2.    
   The UV-3010 spectrometer was also used to measure the transmittances of the light source 
from 190 nm to 1100 nm using Hitachi W and D2 lamp as is shown in Figure 7. Light with 
wavelength below ~300 nm are absorbed by the quartz. The exposure energy mainly comes 
from long wavelength.  
   Figure 8 is the process steps to fabricate the mask. First, a 22nm Cr film was 
deposited on quartz by sputtering. We coated 800 nm photoresist on the Cr film and perform 
opaque region patterning on photoresist (fig. 8a). The 60 nm Cr film was then deposed on the 
 14
underneath oxide layer using one simple etch. In all, we demonstrated one mask dual 
damascene structure fabrication technique. It can be implemented to all other lithography 
processes and all levels of metal layers. This technique only use lithography, etching, ash, 
cleaning process once instead of twice in traditional DD processes. It also totally eliminates 
misalignment problems between via and trench. Design communities can use borderless via 
design in all metal levels for denser circuit design. This technique can also save up to 50% of 
the mask and interconnect manufacturing cost.  
Acknowledgements 
    The authors would like to thank Climbing Huang at United Microelectronics Corp. for 
supplying TEOS wafer and KLA-Tencor’s sponsor for Prolith v.9.2 software. We thank south 
Taiwan Center for Micro/Nano Science and Technology for supporting dry etching. We also 
gratefully acknowledge Taiwan National Science Council for the financial support under 
contract NSC 95-2221-E-006-427. 
References 
[1] K. Kudo et al., “Copper dual damascene interconnects with very low k dielectrics 
 targeting for 130 nm node,” Proc. of IEEE IITC, 270-272 (2000). 
[2] C. H. Jan, et al., “90nm generation, 300mm wafer low k ILD/Cu interconnect technology,” 
 Proc. of IEEE IITC, 15-17 (2003). 
[3] Y. Kagawa et al., “Robust 45 nm node Cu/ULK interconnects using effective porogen 
 control,” Proc. of IEEE IITC, 207-209 (2006). 
[4] M. Aimadeddine et al., “Robust integration of an ULK SiOCH dielectric (k=2.3) for high 
 performance 32 nm node BEOL,” Proc. of IEEE IITC, 175-177 (2007). 
[5] C. Verove et al., “Dual damascene architectures evaluation for the 0.18 μm technology and 
 below” Proc. of IEEE IITC, 267-269 (2000). 
[6] T. Kropewnicki, K. Doan, B. Tang, and Claes Bjorkman, ”Understanding the evolution of 
 16
 exposure. 
Figure 2: The desired photoresist DD structure and its transfer to underneath oxide layer. (a)  
 the desired photoresist DD structure after one exposure (b) partial etch of the via (c)  
 in-situ etch to complete via and trench etch. (Antireflection coating is not shown) 
Figure 3: The trench aerial image intensities as function of Cr thickness. 
Figure 4: The relative intensity of the combined mask taken along y-axis of Figure 1. 
Figure 5: Simulation result of the photoresist profile using the designed mask with exposure  
 conditions of NA 0.62 and sigma 0.78. The Cr thickness is 5 nm at trench area. 
Figure 6: The relation of the mask aligner exposure energy as function of the Cr thickness. 
Figure 7: The percentage of the mask transmittance with different Cr thickness for wavelength 
 from 200 to 600nm. 
Figure 8: The dual damascene mask fabrication steps (a) 22 nm Cr film deposition and  
 patterning mask opaque area (b) deposit additional 60 nm Cr film (c) photoresist lift off (d) 
 spin coating of a resist layer (e) exposure and develop mask via area resist (f) etch Cr  
 film and clear the remaining resist.  
Figure 9: Optical microscope’s bright field view of the fabricated DD mask. 
Figure 10: Nano focus 3D view of the DD photoresist structure after one exposure using the  
 fabricated mask. The resist thickness on via, trench and opaque area are 0, 270 and  
 440nm respectively.  
Figure 11: Nano focus 3D view of the TEOS DD structure after dry etching and resist removal.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18
Figure 3 
 
 
 
Figure 4 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20
Figure 9 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11 
 
 
 
 
 1
國科會專題研究計畫  出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
專題研究計畫: 單一光罩雙鑲嵌(Dual Damascene)製程的研發 
Development of Single Mask Dual Damascene Process 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－006－427 
執行期間： 95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
報告者：彭 洞 清(計畫主持人) 
單位：成功大學微電子研究所 
 
 
Conference attended: Advanced Metallization Conference (AMC) 2007 
Conference location: Albany, New York, USA 
Conference date: October 9-11, 2007 
 
 Advanced Metallization Conference (AMC) conference is focus on state of art technologies 
on IC interconnect to discuss challenges of the metallization developments, processing issues, 
reliability, new idea and approaches. The AMC 2007 conference is specified in the following 
areas:  
 
z Process Integration: Multilevel Cu/low k/airgap BEOL technology, 193 nm immersion 
lithography for 50 nm half pitch single damascene, Challenges of metals integration for 45 
and 32 nm etc.  
z Copper deposition: all wet Cu interconnect approaches, Ru based copper metallization for 
32 and 22nm node, CVD amorphous Ru-P for Cu interconnect etc. 
z Barriers: self forming barrier, self restored barrier, hybrid CoWP/SiCN barrier etc. 
z Low K materials: air gap approaches, Impact of pore density on conduction mechanisms, 
novel porous materials, effect of e-beam and UV curing low k materials on mechanical 
properties, damage studies of direct CMP low k etc. 
z 3D integration and packaging: Chip package integration results for 65 nm C4 
interconnections, roadmap 3D integration etc. 
z CMP and cleaning: damage-less Cu CMP for porous low k film, direct CMP for C45 
technology node, via corrosion and Cu/Co galvanic coupling etc. 
z Reliability and yield: effect of grain structure on EM of Cu interconnect, Observation of 
stress induced voiding in porous low k/Cu interconnect, beyond 65 nm interconnect 
 3
microstructure by incorporating P. The amorphous Ru-P films were grown by chemical 
vapor deposition (CVD) either using a single source precursor, 
cis-dihydridotetrakis(trimethylphosphine)Ru (cis-RuH2(P(CH3)3)4), or dual sources, 
trirutheniumdodecarbonyl (Ru3(CO)12) and trimethylphosphine (P(CH3)3) at 300 °C 
with a cold wall CVD system. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis reveals that the 
amorphous films formed when more than ~ 15 at% P was incorporated. 
   This paper is similar to one of my published conference paper. We studied grain 
boundary stuffed Ru film as potential Cu barrier. Author used highly P doped Ru to 
change Ru microstructure to amorphous.  
 
Low k materials 
 
- Taek-Soo Kim, et al. “Depth Dependence of UV Curing of Organosilicate Low-k Thin  
  Films” 
  The depth dependent UV cure intensity simulated analytically using a modified 
Mack standing wave model that includes both film absorption and shrinkage effects. It 
agrees with the measured modulus variation which suggests that the depth dependence 
of UV curing is associated with UV light interference coupled with film absorption and 
shrinkage. This phenomenon may help to rationalize the insensitivity of the cohesive 
fracture properties and bottom interface fracture energy to UV curing that is generally 
reported compared to significant increase in top interface fracture energy and Young’s 
modulus. The elastic modulus variation and UV model provides a method to 
systematically study UV absorption and the role of the reflectivity of the underlying 
interface on the UV cure profile. Specifically, by varying the reflectivity of the 
underlying interface the magnitude of the reflected wave may be varied offering the 
possibility of increasing the extent of curing close to the interface and through the film 
thickness. 
  I suspected depth depend e-beam or UV curing for many years although most of 
the material suppliers deny this possibility. This paper show what I expected. The 
underlayers will have significant impact on longer time of e-beam or UV exposure. 
There are still some effects need to be studies. Author only studied the effect of the 
standing wave on top layer. How about multi-layers ? There are many underneath layers 
may have impact by top layer’s UV or e-beam curing. 
 
My thought is very similar to last year’s report. The AMC conference revealed many 
new concepts and novel processes for copper interconnect. Thanks to all researchers’ 
efforts. The IC industry spend lots time and money in this area and hope that some day 
we can find solutions to have great reliable low k (k<2.2) chip. It’s been 6 years that 
k=2.2 materials can not be implemented to production due to reliability and chip 
package issues etc. Fundamental issues like mechanical weakness and low breakdown 
field is very hard to overcome. It is the natural characteristics of porous material. We 
