 2
ABSTRACT 
In this study, detailed morphology and X-ray diffraction analysis of the Al2O3 / TiO2 
nanoparticles formed during combustion from a metallized pyrotechnical mixture was examined. 
The Al2O3 / TiO2 aerosol was formed as aggregates composed by small primary particles and the 
aggregate morphology was elaborated in terms of the fractal-like dimension Df which cam be 
evaluated from the power relationship between the aggregate mass M and radius R. Df is high for 
small TiO2 aggregate due to the high temperature restructuring and small for the large aggregates. 
The X-ray diffraction analysis has shown the nanoparticle phase composition 70% anataze + 30% 
rutile. The TEM data showed that nucleation of the oxide vapor starts at the distance of 15 µm 
from the burning surface (in the case of maternal particle with the diameter of 150 µm). The 
element analysis of the maternal particle with the SEM/EDX-Integrated Analysis System showed 
that both oxygen and nitrogen dissolve in the burning liquid particle. The average composition 
before the primary particle burst was 60 at. % of oxygen and a few percent on nitrogen. In order 
to better understand the nanoparticle formation process and its chemical composition, the 
temperature profiles and Al and O2 concentrations were derived analytically and compared with 
the numerical solution. Good agreement was obtained. A numerical model for liquid titanium 
particle combustion in air stream was further developed. The time evolution of oxygen 
concentration in droplet and products (Ti, TiO and TiO2 vapor) in the air was calculated and the 
temperature distribution in both gas and liquid phases were predicted. The size distribution of 
titanium dioxide nanoparticles from the combustion of a metallized pyrotechnical mixture will be 
simulated soon based on the validated models. 
 
Keywords: nanoparticle, combustion, pyrotechnical mixture, agglomerate, titanium dioxide 
 
1. (A) Background and goals 
The investigations of single metal droplets combustion are inspired by both fundamental 
interest and possible applications. In particular the combustion of metal powder can be an 
effective way of synthesis of semiconductor and ceramic oxide nanoparticles. Metal powders are 
of interest as ingredients for high energetic formulations. Aluminum powders are added to 
propellants and explosives to boost their combustion enthalpy. TiO2 nanoparticles based 
photocatalytic nanomaterials are perspective for fog proof, and self cleaning glass production, 
anti-bacterial, anti-viral, fungicidal application, air purification and water treatment. A 
perspective way of synthesis of TiO2 nanoparticles is combustion of Ti powder. In respect to 
these applications a single metal particle burning in air at 1 atm was selected by many researches 
as a simple model for theoretical and experimental study. Metal oxide nanoparticles are a product 
of maternal metal particle combustion. However the mechanism of nanoparticles formation is not 
understood completely yet, partially, due to the lack of experimental data 
The objective of this study is to investigate the mechanism Al2O3 / TiO2 nanoparticle 
formation during combustion of metal liquid droplets in air at atmospheric pressure. The main 
questions under consideration were metal oxide nanoparticle size, morphology, mobility as well 
as stages of combustion of maternal droplets. The Titanium dioxide particle is three crystal 
 4
were generated in the experiments of two kinds: single particle ignition and combustion of a 
metallized pyrotechnical mixture. The single particle ignition experiment is shown in Fig. 1. In 
this case single particles of diameter 100 - 350 μm were charged into a quartz capillary together 
with an igniting composition. The capillary inner diameter was 0.2 cm. The igniting composition 
consisted of oxidizer and binder and served to ignite the particles and eject them one after another 
to the ambient air with the velocity of 100 - 300 cm/s. The moving burning droplet was recorded 
by a high speed video camera. The droplet collided at a small angle with a special glass support 
covered by a formval film (trade mark - "Formvar") so that the metal oxide nanoparticles were 
freezed at the early stage of growth. As a result the nanoparticle deposit was formed at the surface. 
The deposit distribution was analyzed by an optical microscope. Finally the Formvar film with 
deposit was detached from the surface, put to a copper electron microscopy grid, and analyzed 
using a Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM). The main advantage of this technique was that 
the quenched deposited nanoparticles gave an insight to the earliest stages (10-4 s) of particle 
growth. The time of droplet flight was varied by the change of distance between the capillary and 
the surface and was in the range between 50 - 100 ms. 
 
Fig. 1 The single particle combustion experiment scheme 
 The second type of combustion experiments was as follows. A small sample of 
pyrotechnic specimen composed by oxidizer, binder and metal powder was burned in a 20 
litres reaction vessel. The size of metal powder was in the range 4 - 350 μm. The 
combustion time was about a few seconds. During the combustion the burning original metal 
liquid particles (or "agglomerates" which were formed by merging of the original metal 
particles) were ejected to the gas phase. The burning droplets moved in the ambient air and 
generated Al2O3 / TiO2 aerosol. From the video records we determined the droplet 
combustion time as 0.05 - 0.3 s and the droplet velocity about 10 - 50 cm/s. Thus, the 
pyrotechnical composition was used only to ignite metal particles and the main droplet 
 6
 
Fig. 2 Computational domain and boundary conditions in the layer model 
 
A 3-D numerical simulation was conducted in the present study. The governing equations 
are the Navier-Stokes and the continuity equations assuming steady-state, incompressible and 
laminar flow conditions. The Navier-Stokes and continuity equations were solved by using the 
STAR-CD 3.22 package (CD-adapco Japan Co., LTD) based on the finite volume discretization 
method. The pressure-velocity linkage was solved by the SIMPLE algorithm. The QUICK 
scheme was used for the space discretization methods of the flow velocity and density, 
respectively. 
The theoretical drag coefficient is: 
0.687
24 ,Re 0.1
Re
24 (1 0.15Re ),0.1 Re 500
Re
p
p
P p
p
Cd
⎧ ≤⎪⎪= ⎨⎪ + < ≤⎪⎩
 (1) 
where Cd is the drag coefficient, and Rep is defined as 
( )
Re g pp
V U dρ
μ
−=  (2) 
where ρg is the density of air, V is the terminal velocity of the droplet, U is the velocity of air , dp 
is the diameter of the droplet, and μ is the dynamic viscosity of the air.  
For validation purpose, constant temperature was assumed on the surface of the Ti droplet. 
Theoretically, the Nusselt number and the average Nusselt number are 
1
0.5 31.32Re PrNu =  (3) 
2
0.5 0.432 (0.4 Re +0.06Re ) PrNu = +  (4) 
 8
 
2.2.2 Al droplet combustion simulations 
 The Al droplet burning process results to the formation of the reaction zone (where the flux 
of Al reacts with oxygen) detached from the surface of Al maternal particle by a distance of 1 to 7 
radius. The reaction zone temperature TR depends on the counter flow velocity and the sort of 
environmental gas being in the range from 3200 to 4000 K. To evaluate the temperature and 
concentration profiles one should solve the heat and mass transfer equations. The Al flux (I) 
equation is: 
( ) ρπρρπρ d
dx
xkT
DPUC
d
dP
kT
DI AlAl ⎟⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎜⎝
⎛
−−=⎟⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−=
1
144 022
 (13) 
where ρ is radial co-ordinate, D is diffusion coefficient for Al, k is Boltzmann constant, T is 
temperature, U is Stefan flow velocity, CAl is Al vapor concentration, P0 and PAl are total pressure 
and partial pressure of Al, respectively, x is molar fraction of Al. 
 The heat transfer equation is: 
UTc
d
dTTq Pγπρρλπρ
22 4)(4 +−=  (14) 
where q is heat flow, λ(T) is heat conductivity coefficient, cp is gas heat capacity, γ is density of 
the gas. The Eqs. (13, 14) were solved numerically using a finite difference scheme. At the same 
time these equations were solved analytically. The analytical solution for Eq. (14) is as follows. 
T
P
kIc
d
dTTq OP
0
02
0 1
4 γ
ρ
πλ +
⎟⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎜⎝
⎛=  (15) 
The heat conductivity and gas density were approximated as λ≈λ0T and γ≈γ0/T. Then we have 
from (15): 
∫∫ +=⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ T
TR R B
T
A
dTd
ρ
ρ
1   (16) 
Where 
04πλ
qA =  (17) 
00
02
4 P
kIcB OP πλ
γ−=  (18) 
The solution of (16) is: 
)(
)(ln11 22
00 R
R
BrTA
BrTA
rB
A
rB
TT
R −
−−−−=ρ  (19) 
The diffusion equations were solved analytically under the same approximations as in the case of 
Eq. (14). 
 As the next step, the reaction zone width was evaluated more exactly using a literature value 
for the rate constant kr of the reaction between Al and O2: 
)80exp(1062.1 10
T
kr −×= −   см3/с 
 10
 
Fig. 5 Temperature evolution of maternal burning Ti particle (with diameter of 500 µm) 
 
Fig. 6 SEM image of the quenched Ti maternal droplet. Numbers show the locations for element 
analysis (see next figure). 
 
Fig. 7 Oxygen profile in the quenched maternal titanium droplet. 
A video frame of an Al burning droplet is shown in Fig. 8 as an example. The reaction zone 
can be clear seen. The droplet diameter is 225 microns, it moves horizontally in the air with the 
velocity of 14.5 m/s. The reaction zone radius to that of the drop ratio is 1.5. 
 12
flow, temperature, and vapor concentrations of TixOy vapor. Finally, particle dynamic equations 
will be incorporated in the numerical model to predict the number distribution of the generated 
nano TiO2 particles. . 
0 2000 4000 6000
Temperature, K
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
M
ol
e 
fra
ct
io
n
xTi
xTiO
xTiO2
xO
xO2
 
Fig. 11 Atom fraction of all species in TixOy vapor on the droplet surface. 
3.3.2 Al droplet combustion simulations 
The analytically determined profiles of temperature and Al and O2 concentrations are 
compared with the numerical solution in Figs. 12, 13 in the assumption of very narrow reaction 
zone. The resulted temperature profile is shown in Fig. 14. 
 
Fig. 12 Temperature profiles for burning Al droplet: dash line - numerical calculation, dotted line 
- analytical solution 
 
 14
Appendix: Statistics on Research Cooperation 
 (This section will only be used for NSC reference and will not be publicly disclosed) 
I. Number of staff working on this joint project   
Staff Type Taiwan Side Russian Side 
PI and co-PI Chuen-Jinn Tsai Onischuk Andrei 
Alexandrovich 
Full-time research assistant none Karashev Vladimir 
Vasilievitch 
Part-time research assistant Chu-Chun Lo 
Sheng-Chieh Chen 
Ivanova Natalia 
Alexandrovna 
Postdoctoral research fellow none none 
 
II. Joint publications (as of the date of this report submission) 
1. Scientific journals in which papers have been published or accepted for publication 
Title of Paper Name of Journal SCI/EI /SSCI 
Impact 
Factor 
Volume
No. Date
Size and Morphology of the 
Nanooxide Aerosol Generated 
by Combustion of an Aluminum 
Droplet 
O. G. Glotov, A. A. Onischuk, V. V. 
Karasev, V. E. Zarko, and A. M. 
Baklanov 
Doklady Physical Chemistry, 2007, 
Vol. 413, Part 1, pp. 59–62. 
(in English) 
SCI 
 
0.159 
 
 
Vol. 
413 
2007 
Formation of Metal Oxide 
Nanoparticles in 
Combustion of Titanium and 
Aluminum Droplets 
V. V. Karasev, A. A. Onishchuk, S. A. 
Khromova, O. G. Glotov, V. E. Zarko, 
E. A. Pilyugina, and C. J. Tsai 
Combustion, Explosion, and Shock 
Waves, Vol. 42, No. 6, pp. 649–662, 
2006 
 
SCI 0.274 
 
Vol.42,
No 6 
2006 
Evaluation of surface tension and 
Tolman length as a function of 
droplet radius from experimental 
nucleation rate and supersaturation 
ratio: Metal vapor homogeneous 
nucleation A. A. Onischuk,a_ P. A. 
Purtov, A. M. Baklanov, and V. V. 
Karasev, S. V. Vosel 
THE JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL 
PHYSICS 123, 1 _2005_ 
SCI    
Study of morphology of aerosol 
aggregates formed during 
co-pyrolysis of C3H8 + Fe(CO)5 N A 
Ivanova, A A Onischuk, S di Stasio, A 
M Baklanov and G A Makhov 2007  
 
J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 40 
2071-2082   doi:10.1088/0022-372
7/40/7/032 
SCI    
 
2. International or domestic conferences or symposia where papers were presented 
