中文摘要 
  本計畫是利用鐵薄膜的初始應力(σi)來研究鐵鉑薄膜的序化-非序化相轉變。我們發現 σi
由–1.01 GPa(壓縮應力)增加到 0.18 GPa(拉伸應力)時，其相變化活化能會由 0.387 eV/cm3 降
低至 0.230 eV/cm3。序化溫度亦可降低約 100 °C。此外、我們也發現到薄膜序化前的緻密
化(densification)可導致約 1 GPa 左右的拉伸應力。在具有較小壓縮的 σi的鐵鉑薄膜中，強
拉伸應力可誘導 L10 鐵鉑序化相的成核；然而，在高度壓縮的 σi的鐵鉑薄膜中，其應力將
抵銷緻密化所產生的拉伸應力，使序化延遲進而導致序化溫度的提高。 
 
英文摘要 
Initial stress (σi) of a room-temperature deposited FePt films was manipulated to study the 
order-disorder transformation. We observed that while σi was increased from –1.01 (compressive) 
to 0.18 GPa (tensile), the phase transformation activation energy decreased from 0.387 to 0.23 
eV/atom. This causes a reduction in ordering temperature of about 100˚C. We also found that 
densification induces an increase in tensile stress of about 1 GPa before ordering. In the films 
with small σi, strong tension facilitates the nucleation of Ll0 FePt; however, if highly compressive 
σi cancels the densification tension, ordering is retarded causing higher ordering temperature. 
 
關鍵字(keywords)：initial stress/strain state, FePt thin films, ordering phase transformation, 
densification, 
Radiation Research Center (NSRRC) beamline 17B1 with a (6 + 2) Huber goinometer. 
Pseudo-Voigt function fitting was used to extract information from diffraction peaks. 
Crystallographic structure was examined by conventional XRD with Cu Kα (λ = 1.541 Å). 
Ordering parameter was obtained from the integrated intensities of fundamental and superlattice 
peaks by the method proposed by Warren.7 In-plane magnetic properties of the samples were 
measured by vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) with maximum applied field of 1.2 tesla at 
RT. Microstructure and selected area electron diffraction (SAD) were investigated with a 
field-emitted transmission electron microscope (FETEM). 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The relation between d111 and Sin2ψ for the RT-deposited thin films with different working 
pressures is shown in Fig. 1(a). The error bar is given by pseudo-Voigt fitting. The variation of 
d111 was fitted linearly to extract the slope and d0, the planar spacing of (111) at ψ = 0˚.6 Passion’s 
ratio and Young’s modulus of the disordered FePt are given as 0.33 and 180 GPa, respectively.8 
They were used to obtain the initial stress (σi) of the films. Good linearity was obtained in all 
samples as probed by high R2 factor (goodness-of-fit), ranging from 0.91 to 0.99. This indicates 
good uniformity of the biaxial stress in the normal direction of the films. σi for the disordered 
FePt films with different working pressure are summarized in Fig. 1(b). It indicates that the σi 
increases drastically from –1.01 GPa (compressive) to 0.18 GPa (tensile) with the increasing of 
the working pressure from 5 to 25 mtorr. 
Fig. 2 shows XRD patterns of the films with different σi annealed at 350˚C for 10 minutes. 
The film with σi = –1.01 GPa remains disordered as revealed by the absence of superlattice peaks, 
while other samples (σi = 0.18 ~ 0.50 GPa) are ordered. The intensity of superlattice peaks 
increases with the increasing σi from –0.50 to 0.18 GPa, indicating that the reduction of 
compressive σi facilitates the ordering of FePt. 
Dependences of order parameter, S, and Hc on σi for FePt thin films annealed at 275 to 
400˚C for 10 minutes are shown in Fig. 3(a) and 3(b). The error bar of S stands for the variation 
of thin film texture. As indicated by Fig. 3(a), σi shows no visible effect on ordering for the films 
with Ta = 275˚C. In the films with Ta = 300˚C, Ll0 ordering occurs in the samples whose σi are 
higher than –0.39 GPa. With the increasing of Ta to 350˚C, the onset point of ordering shifted to 
σi = –0.5 GPa. The film with the largest compressive σi of –1.01 GPa finally orders at Ta = 400˚C, 
the S of which is about 0.4, close to those of the films with σi = –0.18 and 0.18 GPa annealed at 
300˚C. A difference of 100˚C in Tord is clearly indicated. Dependence of Hc shows a perfect 
consistence to S as indicated in Fig. 3(b). With the rise of S, Hc is drastically enhanced from 
below 0.5 kOe to about 8 kOe. Interestingly, in some samples with initial compressive stress, still 
have enhanced ordering after annealing, revealing that only when the magnitude of compressive 
σi exceeds a critical value, the hindrance in ordering becomes manifest. We note the following 
facts: (1) While annealed at the same Ta, the S value of the sample increases with σi and saturates 
as σi ≥ –0.39 GPa; (2) Ta plays an important role in extensive ordering. The results suggest that 
the variation of σi may mainly influence the nucleation of Ll0 phase rather than the growth of it. 
To further investigate the role that σi plays during ordering, we study the dependence of Ta 
on residual strain (εr). The reason for taking εr instead of σi is that σi is not available for the 
samples involving ordering. This is due to the lack of published data of the Passion’s ratio and 
dependence of f0 on t (t from 2 to 960 minutes) with JMA equation, the k and n can be extracted. 
Ea is then obtained from the slope of linear-fitted dependence of lnk on reciprocal temperature, 
1/T (from 548 to 773K). Ea as a function of σi is shown in Fig. 5. A decrease in Ea from 0.387 ± 
0.014 to 0.23 ± 0.039 is indicated, resulting from the release of compressive σi from -1.01 GPa to 
0.17 GPa. The reduction of activation energy indicates that the ordering enhancement may exist 
in various forms of FePt such as bulk, particles, continuous and discontinuous films, etc. as long 
as sufficient inner stress is contained. It can be predicted that for the samples with Ea = 0.387 
eV/atom, the f0 results from an annealing at 400˚C for 10 minutes is 0.622; same f0 can be 
achieved in sample with Ea = 0.23 eV/atom at only 282 ± 2˚C for 10 minutes. This prediction is 
consistent with the experimental f0 of 0.64 for the film with σi = 0.17 GPa annealed at 300˚C for 
10 minutes. The effect of activation energy on ordering is more obvious in time scale. It needs 27 
hours to reach f0 = 0.95 at 300˚C for sample with Ea = 0.23 eV/atom; for film with Ea = 0.387 
eV/atom, however, it takes about 15 years. 
CONCLUSION 
In summary, in this paper we demonstrate that the control of initial stress from -1.01 to 
0.18 GPa results in a decrease in activation energy of phase transformation from 0.387 to 0.23 
eV/atom, leading to reduction of about 100˚C in ordering temperature of FePt films. Obvious 
enhancement in ordering was obtained as σi is controlled less than 0.39 GPa compressive. We 
also found that densification induces a strong tensile strain of about 1 GPa before ordering. This 
strain provides extra driving force for the nucleation of order phase because the volume 
expansion caused by ordering and atomic rearrangement can effectively neutralize the tensile 
strain. If σi of the as-deposited film is strained highly compressive, the densification tension will 
be mostly canceled, which retards ordering. The reduction of activation energy suggests that the 
enhancement in ordering can be independent of form of FePt as long as the sufficient internal 
stress is produced. In nano-scale materials, however, to introduce considerable inner stress is a 
real challenge since the surface of which is free. To mount nanoparticles with a hard matrix as a 
film or bulk and than apply pressure or control the internal stress/strain state of the whole 
composite could be a feasible way. The role that initial stress plays claims its significance in 
order-disorder transformation and the results of this study may provide important knowledge for 
engineering FePt films for future applications. 
Reference 
1 D. Weller, A. Moser, L. Folks, M. E. Best, W. Lee, M. F. Toney, M. Schwickert, J. -U. Thiele, and M. F. Doerner, 
IEEE Trans. Magn. 36, 10 (2000). 
2 M. F. Toney, W. –Y. Lee, J. A. Hedstrom, and A. Kellock, J. Appl. Phys. 93 9902 (2003). 
3 R. M. Hazen, and A. Navrotsky, AM Mineral. 81, 1021 (1996). 
4 D. A. Porter and K. E. Easterling, Phase Transformations in Metals and Alloys, 2nd edition CRC Taylor & Francis, 
1992, pp. 287-314. 
5 L. B. Freund and S. Suresh, Thin film Materials: Stress, Defect Formation and Surface Evolution, Cambridge 
university press, 2003, Ch. 1. 
6 M. E. Fitzpatrick (Editor), Analysis of Residual Stress by Diffraction Using Neutron and Synchrotron Radiation, 
London: Taylor & Francis, Ch. 1. 
 Fig. 3 Dependence of (a) order parameter and (b) coercivity on initial stress for the FePt films 
annealed at different temperatures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Dependence of residual strain on annealing temperature for the FePt films with various 
initial stress. The inset shows the SAD patterns of the sample with initial stress of –0.5 GPa 
annealed at 275˚C as marked by the arrow. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Dependence of activation energy of ordering on initial stress for the FePt films. 
 
 
 
 1 
The 5th International Conference on Advanced Materials and 
Processing 
 
ICAMP-5 
 
日期: 2008年 9 月2-5 日 
會議出席報告者: 陳士  
職稱: 逢甲大學材料系教授 
一、前言  
本屆(第五屆)國際尖端材料暨製程研討會是中國哈爾濱工業大學(Harbin 
Institute of Technology)主辦，特別是該大學的兩個重點實驗室對此次會議的投入
最多 包括金屬精密熱壓成型國家重點實驗室 (National Key Laboratory of 
Precision Hot Pressing of Metals)、及尖端焊接製造技術省級重點實驗室(State Key 
Laboratory of Advanced Welding Production Technology)。此次大會的部份經費則
由中國家自然科學基金會(National Nature Science Foundation of China)及礦物-金
屬-材料協會(The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society)共同支助，以舉辦國際大型
研討會而言，哈爾濱工業大學此次堪稱辦得順利成功，其中的關鍵之一在於其會
務工作的分工細膩，經費來源多元而充足，故應有一些執行面的部份可供借鏡及
學習。本次會議是凱榮飯店進行註冊及接待，此處亦為大會安排與會人員投宿的
特約旅 ，位處在松花江畔，風景秀麗，江畔為公園綠地，在緊 的議程之暇，
可提供與會人士舒展身心之需。 
 
二、議程及內容  
註冊後翌日進行第一天議程，在哈爾濱工業大學國際會議中心舉行，上午均
為專題邀請演講，為不分議程的大會演講(plenary session)，主要內容是特殊之金
屬合金設計、製程及性質研究，例如 日本東北大學Inoue教授研究群的「塊材
玻璃合金(Bulk Glassy Alloys)之探討」、美國Johns Hopkins大學馬教授之研究群之
「奈米晶及非晶金屬之延展性改善」、美國加州大學Lavernia大學的「奈米結構材
料之變型與 度」、及北京清華大學劉教授研究團隊的「形成二元玻璃態金屬之
原子數學模擬及其原子結構」，這些Invited Talks場場精彩，對從事此一研究領域
者必有很大助益，而對一般材料研究人員亦可從奈米尺寸的觀點嘗試去瞭解奈米
晶或非晶的相圖、結構、製程和特性。 
下午開始則為口頭報告議程(oral session)與海報議程(poster session)同時進
行，而本次大會將所有的海報論文均安排在本日下午發表，其他各個時程均只舉
行口頭報告。而口頭報告則分六個議程同時進行，包括  
議程A: 輕金屬(Light metals) 
議程B: 尖端鋼鐵、耐高溫金屬及陶瓷材料(Advanced steels, high temperature 
 3 
等，這些論文內容兼具實用性能與學術價值，值得仔細聆聽研討。 
在第二天晚間，大會安排晚宴，總計有來自二十餘國家將近兩百位學者專家
參加宴會，除了主辦單位的主席、委員、及來賓致詞，大會並宣布下次會議的地
點和主協辦機構，晚宴氣氛熱絡，賓主盡歡，在會中結識不少相關研究領域的國
外科研人員，談得十分投機，並與其中幾位相邀一起合作若干共同興趣的主題，
自覺收獲良多。 
第三天的會期，我主要參與議程C(非晶材料議程)，對塊材金屬玻璃(bulk 
metallic glass; 簡稱BMG)的相關論文尤其關注，例如 結晶分率對BMG複材機
械性質的影響(北京清華大學)、具有超高 度和良好可塑性之鐵基BMG合金設計
(中國金屬研究所)、BMG在室 下的變型與破裂行為(中國遼寧大學)、BMG的製
備與應用(中國燕山大學)、高熵合金的相律(中國北京科技大學)、Ti-Cu基BMG
合金之生成與性質(中國科學院長春應用化學研究所)、及BMG內部原子位置與排
列方式的探討(國立澳州大學Stachurski教授)。這些研究提供我若干想法，未來可
用來研究開發新型的磁性合金、工程合金、防蝕合金、或電子產業相關的特殊合
金，可望開啟另一兼具工業應用與學術探討的新領域。 
 
三、心得  
綜合此次參訪及會議及參訪所得，除了在開會過程中聽取許多寶貴的論文資
訊，在海報議程亦與多位學者專家做更進一步的討論與交流，在多瞭解不同領域
的研究內容之餘 更結識多位相關領域的研究者，未來對研究範圍的拓展，跨領
域主題的開發(不侷限於磁學及磁性材料暨製程領域)將有很大助益。 
此外，由於此會是在哈爾濱工業大學舉行，故對哈工大與材料相關的科研單
位都有間接的瞭解，自覺得有助對整體科研環境的更加深體認，同時也有「他山
之石可做借鏡」效用。在哈工大，與「材料」、「製程技術」密切相關的科研單位
除材料科學與工程學院的各系所(如 材料科學系、材料工程系)之外，還包括中
國機械工程學會粉末冶金分會、中國金屬學會粉末冶金分會、及數個國家重點級
實驗室(與熱處理、冷加工、熱加工等)，綜合而言，哈工大堪稱中國在金屬材料
合金設計、製程技術、重工業應用方面的研發重鎮，而我們國內似乎沒有大學或
學術研究機構扮演這種兼顧技術開發及國家級任務導向的科研工作，自覺得兩地
的大學及學術機構在此方面似有相當差異。 
 
四、攜回資料  
最後，由衷十分感謝國科會的補助，才有機會參加這次國際會議，以增廣
見聞，會後並攜回下列兩份最新資料  
(i) The 5th International Conference on Advanced Materials and Processing 
(ICAMP-5): Abstract 
(ii) The 5th International Conference on Advanced Materials and Processing 
(ICAMP-5): Program 
