complexity of both network entities and clients, 
regardless the coexisting MIPv6/PMIPv6 environment in 
which the MNs reside. The performance of our proposed 
scheme is evaluated through simulations. 
英文關鍵詞： Route Optimization, Mobile IPv6 (MIPv6), Proxy Mobile 
IPv6 (PMIPv6) 
 
 1 
 
異質無線網路中跨層以網路為基礎快速行動技術與品質服務之研究發展 
Study and Development of Cross-Layering Network-Based Fast Mobility 
Techniques and QoS Provisioning in Heterogeneous Wireless Networks 
 
 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-009-066-MY3  
執行期限：98年 8月 1日至 101年 7月 31日 
主持人：陳耀宗教授 (國立交通大學資訊工程學系) 
計畫參與人員：施振華、郭俊利、賈文康、黃譽維、李書賢 
 
I. 中文摘要 
本子計畫在研究發展一個可在異質無線網路下，利
用 網 路 導 向 (Network-based) 並 運 用 跨 層
(Cross-layering)方式以減少換手(Handover)過程延遲
與確保服務品質(Quality of Service, QoS)的行動技術，
更進一步達到無接縫(Seamless)的換手。在本年度的研
究中，我們著重於路由最佳化(route optimization)的問
題。目前客戶導向(Client-based)的行動 IP(Mobile IPv6, 
MIPv6) 與 網 路 導 向 (Network-based) 的 代 理 行 動
IP(Proxy MIPv6)各有其不同的路由最佳化的機制。然
而這些機制仍然有其缺陷，造成高換手延遲時間
(Handover delay)與點對點延遲時間(end-to-end delay)，
進而使得無接縫換手無法達成。尤其在行動 IP 與代理
行動 IP 共存的網路之下，這種無效率的路由最佳化機
制更是造成無接縫換手無法達成的主要問題。因此我
們針對兩者共存之網路中，路由最佳化的問題提出一
有效的解法，此機制能(1)改善行動管理機制的整體效
能；(2)減少訊息成本(Signal overhead)及佈建成本；(3)
縮短換手與點對點延遲時間；(4)簡化網路元件的軟體
複雜度。 
 
關鍵詞：路由最佳化，行動 IP，代理行動 IP。 
II. 英文摘要 
Nowadays more and more wireless users are on mov-
ing while accessing the Internet, hence provisioning of 
efficient mobility management in the current Internet 
becomes increasingly important. Client-based Mobile 
IPv6 (MIPv6) is the most widely known mobility man-
agement scheme, and fast emerging Proxy-based Mobile 
IPv6 (PMIPv6) scheme offers an alternative. However, 
some inherent problems such as route optimization in 
these schemes have not been totally solved. Although 
various proposals tried to tackle the route optimization 
problem, none of them has achieved a satisfactory suc-
cess. Furthermore, most of them are not a comprehen-
sive solution for coexisting MIPv6/PMIPv6 mobile en-
vironment. In this paper, we proposed a novel unified 
route optimization scheme based on a simplified MIPv6, 
called Traffic Driven Pseudo Binding Update (TDPBU), 
which can significantly improve the overall performance 
of mobility management schemes. Our proposed scheme 
can ensure immediate route optimization, achieve lower 
end-to-end latency, minimize signaling overhead, reduce 
deployment cost, and lessen software complexity of both 
network entities and clients, regardless the coexisting 
MIPv6/PMIPv6 environment in which the MNs reside. 
The performance of our proposed scheme is evaluated 
through simulations. 
 
Keywords: Route Optimization, Mobile IPv6 (MIPv6), 
Proxy Mobile IPv6 (PMIPv6). 
III. 計畫緣由與目的 
With quick advance in wireless technologies, more 
and more IP-based wireless user terminals are becoming 
mobile, and providing mobility support in the IP net-
works has been a long-standing challenge. Mobility on 
Internet is an important functionality for future Internet 
services, hence the most widely known protocol, Mobile 
IP (MIP), enables a Mobile Node (MN) to arbitrarily 
change its point of attachment to the Internet. Since MIP 
must be implemented in MNs to serve mobility man-
agement by themselves, it is also called Client based 
MIP (CMIP) [1, 5]. On the other hand, the fast emerging 
Proxy based Mobile IP (PMIP) [2-4] protocol provides 
an alternative for mobility management based on the 
assistance of local network.  
However, some inherent problems of these protocols 
have not been totally solved. For example, both of them 
incur large handoff latency during the period of network 
attachment, it results in difficulty to support real-time 
multimedia applications [14]; moreover, the most com-
mon problem is the Route Optimization (RO) [33] be-
tween a MN and its Correspondent Nodes (CNs). RO 
regards how to route those packets between a MN and a 
 3 
 
Route optimization between MN and MCN 
In addition to bi-directional tunneling operation [5], 
MIPv6 can operate using route optimization mode, with 
which the MN and CN bypass the Home Agent (HA) and 
communicate directly with each other. Without loss of 
generality, most of direct paths between CNs and MNs 
would be shorter than routing through the HAs. Thus, 
route optimization improves data transport rates in mo-
bility environment and especially beneficial when the 
MNs and CNs are in the near or even same mobility 
management domain. 
In MIPv6, MN owns two valid addresses －
Home-Address (HoA) and Care-of-Address (CoA) to 
represent its current location. For sending packets to the 
CN effectively, a MN can directly send packets using 
CoA instead of HoA as the source address, thus data 
traffic don’t have to traverse HA. On the other hand, to 
send packets to the MN effectively, the CN should be 
aware of the current location (CoA) of MN. If correct 
MN’s location information can be updated to the CN’s 
binding cache, the CN can also directly send packets to 
the MN’s CoA via the optimal route path [1, 5-6]. 
When the MN and CN belong to different mobility 
management domains (e.g. MIPv6 and PMIPv6) and 
both moved beyond their home networks, it will result in 
the most complicated scenario as depicted in Fig. 1. As-
sume there are four alternative data paths: Path1: 
MNHoA↔CNHoA is a non-optimized route path under dou-
ble bidirectional tunneling; Path2: MNCoA↔CNHoA and 
Path3: MNHoA↔CNCoA are partial route optimization 
paths with a bidirectional tunneling; Path4: 
MNCoA↔CNCoA is a full route optimization path without 
bidirectional tunneling. Obviously, Path4 is the best 
choice based on the shortest hop-counts, and the goal of 
route optimization is achieved so that the traffic between 
MN and CN can be shifted from Path1 to Path4 through 
a series of control messages. 
Route optimization operations for MIPv6 
When a MN changed its point of attachment and ob-
tained a new CoA, it sends a Binding Update (BU) to its 
associated HA, then all the CNs communicate with it 
using route optimization approach. The mechanism is 
simple: let the HA and all CNs know the MN's current 
point of attachment (CoA), and data packets sent from 
CNs can first arrive at the HA via MN’s HoA, then be 
tunneled to the MN, or be forwarded to the MN’s CoA 
directly. When the communication end point switched 
from MN’s HoA to CoA as noted previously, Return 
Routability (RR) [6] test is used to verify both the right 
of the MN to use a specific HoA and the validity of the 
claimed CoA. The secure return routability mechanism 
of current MIPv6 has been carefully designed to prevent 
or mitigate a number of known threats. It requires no 
configuration and no trusted entities beyond the MN’s 
HA, and is based on pervasive distrust of the future mo-
bile Internet [8]. 
The basic return routability mechanism is triggered by 
the MN. An intelligent MN can judge the session dura-
tion or QoS need to decide whether the route optimiza-
tion (return routability) is initiated. Once initiated, it 
consists of two test pairs and four messages: The Home 
Test Init (HoTI) and Care-of Test Init (CoTI) trigger both 
tests by MNs, the Home Test (HoT) and Care-of Test 
(CoT) reply the test by CNs; the binding update accom-
panied with both tests are accomplished. If a MN cur-
rently communicates with N  CNs using route optimi-
zation approach, the aforementioned procedure will be 
performed N  times. The procedures will probably be 
executed twice if N  CNs were also mobile. 
The return routability procedure is very costly for both 
MN and CN, especially when both of them are mobile. 
Regardless the latency of network attachment procedure, 
the return routability procedure initiated by MN requires 
at least 6 messages, including RTTPath1 and twice 
RTTPath2 to achieve the partial route optimization. Also 
CN requires 6 messages, including RTTPath2, and twice 
RTTPath4 to initiate the return routability procedure from 
another direction. If MN initiates the return routability 
mechanism earlier than CN, the Path2 should be select-
ed first; otherwise Path3 should be first traversed. Fi-
nally, twice return routability procedures (total 12 mes-
sages) have been accomplished by both sides, and the 
full route optimization will be selected. The whole pro-
cedure is depicted in Fig. 2. 
Consider that each MN may be moving fast, it causes 
both MN/CN experiencing a long non-optimized route 
and/or partial route optimization duration. However, this 
efficiency of route optimization comes with high cost 
(e.g., binding update storm and high-latency route opti-
mization) in terms of security needs and excessive mo-
bility signaling messages.  
C
M
IP
v6
 D
om
ai
n
Path4: Fully Optimized Path
MNCoA↔CNCoA
Path1: Non-Optimized Path
MNHoA↔CNHoA
HAMN LMACN
MN CN
AR MAG
PM
IPv6 D
om
ain
Fig. 1 Hexagonal network reference model in which MN and 
CN are both mobile and coexist on MIPv6/PMIPv6 mobility 
management domain. 
 5 
 
vided the problem statement for route optimization in 
PMIPv6. It also investigated design goals and require-
ments for route optimization with consideration of the 
characteristics of PMIPv6. Firstly, since a MN is una-
ware of its topological location, even its proxy 
Care-of-Address (pCoA), it is not possible for the MN to 
perform correspondent binding update. Secondly, unlike 
Mobile IPv6, a MN does not participate in binding 
management procedures, and signaling is contained 
within the network entities in Proxy Mobile IPv6. Hence 
the MN cannot perform optimization procedures and 
binding update procedures for CNs. Since MAG is an 
intermediate node of MN-CN communication, it seems 
not easy to initiate Mobile IPv6 route optimization on 
behalf of the MN. Finally, In Mobile IPv6, a CN vali-
dates whether a MN is reachable through the MN's HoA 
and CoA and sets up trust relationship between the two 
nodes. However, the CN cannot establish trust relation-
ship with a MN in Proxy Mobile IPv6 domain. 
In the proposed RO protocol in PMIPv6 [18], only 
network entities exchange the messages for RO config-
uration, thus it is different from previous RO protocol 
used in the MIPv6. When MAG initiates Client 
MIPv6-based [5] return routability test between MN and 
CN, MAGMN sends Proxy home test (pHoTI) and Proxy 
care-of test (pCoTI) messages to MAGCN as defined in 
MIPv6. Since MN does not have CoA in PMIPv6, 
MAGMN sets the source addresses of Proxy CoTI as its 
pCoA. Other parameters for authenticating the MN will 
be set the same as that in MIPv6. In order to acquire in-
formation about which MAGMN serves the CN, MAGMN 
queries LMAMN before initiating return routability pro-
cedures, and so does between MAGCN and LMACN. 
The interactions scenarios between PMIPv6 and 
MIPv6 protocols are first addressed in [19, 20], which 
analyze several scenarios when route optimization is 
used. The analysis could be used to identify possible 
issues that should be considered in designing extensions 
for route optimization in PMIPv6. 
Since the RO path is established and updated through 
exchanging extra messages between the LMA and the 
MAG, several researches [21-23] proposed novel proto-
col that focuses on efficient set up and maintenance of 
an optimized route path between two MNs for complex 
mobility scenarios as well as networks with multiple 
mobility anchors. To establish the optimal RO path, the 
LMA is endowed with the function of Route Optimiza-
tion control (ROC) [22] and they are established under 
two modes, the “Direct Mode” and the “Proxy Mode”. A 
series of new control messages are introduced for the 
novel scheme such as RO Init, RO Report, RO Setup. 
As a result, the optimized path provides an efficient mo-
bility service to mobile user in the PMIPv6.  
In [24], a LMA initiated route optimization protocol 
based on Correspondent Binding Update (CBU) message 
is proposed, it features a smooth transition from the 
serving MAG to the neighboring MAG without sending 
the CBU message to LMA in PMIPv6. The proposed 
protocol simplifies the return routability procedures, and 
it can reduce the handover latency and achieve fast re-
covery of the optimized path after handover.  
In summary, the development of RO in PMIPv6 still 
lacks the performance concern because new messages 
are always introduced in all proposed schemes, and the 
complexity of interoperation between coexisting mobili-
ty management domains will increase. It is similar to 
MIPv6 that many RO setup messages experience same 
amount of RO latency. 
IV. 研究方法 
The Proposed Scheme 
In this section, the proposed schemes are discussed. 
We briefly address the network attachment procedure 
and handoff procedure. Also we devise a new type of 
message-less binding update scheme－Traffic Driven 
Pseudo Binding Update (TDPBU) scheme which is au-
tomatically triggered by first upstream datagram packet 
from MN to CN, and propose a related Optional Post 
Authentication (OPA) scheme that assists CN to create 
trust relationship with HAMN on demand. 
Design Concept 
The design concept of TDPBU is threefold: Firstly, 
the TDPBU is inherent route optimized mobility man-
agement scheme cooperating in both PMIPv6 and 
MIPv6 domains. With this scheme, less network entities 
of MNs with MIPv6 are supported, and MAGs on 
PMIPv6 domain are provided with TDPBU function. 
Security consideration becomes optional rather than 
compulsory. Oppositely, the RO is always launched be-
tween MN and CN, and no longer an option like that in 
MIPv6. 
Secondly, TDPBU eliminates the explicit BU mes-
sages, which are substituted by inherent extension head-
er. For example, Home Address Destination Options 
Header (HADOH) and Type-2 Routing Header (T2RH) 
in MIPv6 definition are carried by the datagram packet. 
Thus, the signaling cost can be reduced and the time 
spent for massive binding update can be ignored. 
Finally, in OPA part, the basic idea is to reverse both 
binding update and the security procedures, thus the 
handoff latency can be reduced. Once system is com-
promised, the average time to implement OPA is esti-
mated from several minutes to hours [29]. The enhanced 
technique and increased bandwidth will reduce the spent 
 7 
 
they are only interpreted by the destination in IPv6. 
When a MN sends an IPv6 datagram to a CN using route 
optimization with the care-of-address as the source ad-
dress, the HADOH is used to carry a MNHoA. In other 
words, a HADOH must be contained in the packets un-
less the home address appears as the source address in 
MIPv6.  
When a CN sends an IPv6 datagram to a MN using 
route optimization, the destination address field in the 
IPv6 header contains the MNCoA, while the T2RH in-
serted contains the MNHoA. IPv6 nodes that process these 
routing headers must verify whether the IPv6 address 
contained corresponds to the home address of the MN. 
The detailed process is illustrated in Algorithm 1. As a 
result, once a CN is also mobile, the forwarded packets 
MNCoA→CNCoA should carry both two extension headers, 
the HADOH that contains MNHoA and T2RH that con-
tains CNHoA. The backward packets CNCoA →MNCoA 
should carry both extension headers too, where the 
HADOH contains the CNHoA and T2RH contains the 
MNHoA. 
OPA Procedure 
For more strict reason such as security issue, the OPA 
procedure (9) and (m) can be redeemed after TDPBU. 
That optional procedure may be triggered by TDPBU, a 
binding request will then be actively sent from CN to 
HAHoA to inform the MN performing a real return 
routability test procedure. This is to confirm that the ear-
lier pseudo binding update was legal. 
MN Handoff 
If the MN is moving, it may lead to binding update 
cached in CN being stale (8), and the datagram will be 
sent to previous location at the moment (9). The previ-
ous AR will detect this phenomenon and respond with 
an ICMP destination unreachable [25] or binding error 
message [5] to the CN (a), which then is informed to 
clear the MNCoA from binding cache entry (b), and orig-
inates a retransmission task toward the MNCoA (HAMN) 
(c). After MN finishes the network attachment procedure 
in the new point of attachment (d)~(f), those retransmit-
ted packets will be delivered to MNHoA (g), and RO pro-
cedure will be restarted by datagram forwarding (h)~(j). 
Note that the backward packet (g) won’t trigger the for-
ward packet (h) immediately, it all occurs according to 
the behavior of upper layer applications. 
To solve the inefficient retransmission problem, as-
suming that the previous AR (PAR) knows the current 
location of the MN, the PAR will relay the received 
datagram to the current AR. Otherwise, the datagram 
will be sent to the HA and forwarded to the current loca-
tion of MN later. Here the concepts of Fast Mobile IP 
(FMIP) [26] can be applied. 
With specific condition, the retransmission procedures 
(9)~(c) and (g) may not occur, note that TDPBU relies 
on normal traffic. Prior to the retransmission procedure 
triggered by the first downstream datagram packet CN→
old_MNCoA, the MN may originate an upstream data-
gram packet new_MNCoA→CN before the downstream 
packet arrives. Thus, a TDPBU will be triggered by the 
first upstream datagram packet (h)~(j) received by CN. 
Binding Cache Maintenance 
In the MIPv6 specification, every MN maintains at 
least two data structures－  Binding Cache(BC) and 
Binding Update List(BUL). The original route optimiza-
tion mechanism in MIPv6 relies on these data structures 
for binding to the current location, and maintaining cor-
rect BUL in the cache. Such binding cache entries are 
used by a CN to store mapping between HoA and CoA 
of the MN, and still kept a certain period even after the 
disconnection or loss of state in MNs. Therefore a bind-
ing update list will be kept by MNs, which maintains 
current binding state on CNs or HAs.   
TDPBU always originates a connection via 
care-of-address and HADOH instead of sending the 
binding update message. Thus the binding update list 
can be simplified for solely dealing with the HA. 
The binding cache in a TDPBU node contains one en-
try for every CN with which communication is taking 
place. The binding cache contains four major fields of 
information, which are central to the operation of MIPv6, 
for each binding. Other non-essential fields are omitted 
for clarity. Algorithm 1 illustrates the detailed process: 
when a MN wants to transmit a packet to a remote host, 
the home address field in the binding cache entry is 
searched to find the IPv6 address of that host. If no 
match was found, the packet is transmitted according to 
the routing tables. Otherwise, if there is a match then the 
destination address in the packet header will be altered to 
the care-of-address specified in the binding cache. This 
ensures optimal routing to the MN’s current location. 
The form this encapsulation takes is depending on the 
state of binding flag stored in the binding cache entry. 
The binding state with TDPBU is illustrated in Fig. 4, 
in which a simple Finite State Machine (FSM) is driven 
by incoming packets: once a host receives a packet 
without attached HADOH from a remote node, it means 
that node is either stationary or stays in home network, 
and the binding cache does not record related infor-
mation of the communication session. Such initial state 
is called “No Binding”. Once a packet carried a HADOH, 
it means that the remote node has been moving to a for-
eign network, so the binding information is added to the 
Binding Cache Entry (BCE) and the FSM transits to the 
 9 
 
The top half of Fig. 5 (step (1)~(6)) shows a RO con-
nection established between two generic MIPv6 domains 
with all the MIPv6 components. Unless the first packet 
from MN traverses CN’s tunnel path via HACN, the re-
turn packets from CN are already on RO path. Route 
optimization technique offers the biggest advantage 
when the HAMN and HACN are far away from the MN 
and CN respectively, and both of them are based on 
MIPv6. The bottom half of Fig. 5 (step (a)~(i)) shows a 
RO connection established between MIPv6 and PMIPv6 
domains, which contain MIPv6 components and 
PMIPv6 components, respectively. In this case the MAG 
assists the MCN to perform the RO procedure. Here 
route optimization technique will offer the biggest ad-
vantage when the HAMN and LMA are far away from the 
MIPv6-based MN and PMIPv6-based CN, respectively. 
A CN on PMIPv6 domain may not have mobility 
support, it means both the HADOH and T2RH cannot be 
recognized by the CN. Thus MAG should perform 
TDPBU MNHoA→MNCoA address mapping for CN in 
step (c) when it recognizes the HADOH attached in the 
incoming packet in step (b). Then MAG should translate 
the source address from MNCoA to MNHoA in step (d), 
also re-translate the source address from CNHoA to 
CNpCoA, and the destination address from MNHoA to 
MNCoA for step (e), and obtains the packet of step (f). 
Finally, from step (h) to step (i), the above procedure is 
reversed. 
If the MN was in PMIPv6 domain and the CN was in 
MIPv6 domains, route optimization should take place 
between caller-side’s MAGs and MIPv6 enabled MN. 
The sequence of interactions among different entities is 
shown in the bottom half of Fig. 6 and the steps are giv-
en as (1)~(9) in the figure. 
 
LMA
AR
3
HA
CN
CN upon CMIP Domain as a callee
HACNÆCNCoA 
[MNpCoAÆCNHoA<doh:MNHoA> ]
CN
CN upon PMIP Domain as a callee
MNpCoAÆCNHoA 
CNHoAÆMNpCoA
LMA MAG
e
f
l
LMACNÆMAG(CNpCoA)
[MNpCoAÆCNHoA <doh:MNHoA>]
c
MN
1
MNHoAÆCNHoA
CN(p)CoAÆMNHoA
MNHoAÆCN(p)CoA8
MAG
i
j
PMIP Domain
CN
7
MNpCoAÆCNCoA 
<doh:MNHoA><t2rh:CNHoA>
9
TDPBU: 
MNHoAÆMNCoA
4
a
TD
PB
U
: 
C
N
H
oA
Æ
C
N
(p
)C
oA
h
6
TD
PB
U
: 
M
N
H
oA
Æ
M
N
pC
oA
d
 
Fig. 6. Proposed scheme operation in InterPMIP domain and 
cross PMIP→MIP domains. 
 
The bottom half of Fig. 6 (step (a)~(l)) shows a sce-
nario in which the MN and CN are in different PMIPv6 
domains. MAG1 and MAG2 are under LMA1 and 
LMA2 respectively. In this case, route optimization 
takes place between two MAGs. Since with TDPBU, 
basically no explicit messages are exchanged among 
mobile network entities, this fulfills the requirement of 
unified route optimization solution for coexisting mobil-
ity management domains.  
V. 研究成果 
Performance Evaluation 
In this section, we evaluated the performance of 
TDPBU whose benefits could be illustrated by 1) 
end-to-end latency during route optimization; 2) signal-
ing costs; 3) throughput; and 4) route optimization la-
tency and blocking rate in an error-prone link. Fig. 7 
presents the block diagram of the simulation experiment, 
note that CN is also mobile (a.k.a. MCN). Without loss 
of generality, we make the following assumptions and 
notations: 
z The one way delay for average-length datagram of 
TMN→AR_MN, TCN→AR_CN, TAR_MN→HA_MN, TAR_CN→HA_CN, 
THA_MN → HA_CN, THA_MN → AR_CN, THA_CN → AR_MN and 
TAR_MN→AR_CN are 2, 2, 15, 15, 30, 15, 15 and 20, 
respectively; It means that Path1: MNHoA↔CNHoA, 
Path2: MNCoA↔CNHoA, Path3: MNHoA↔CNCoA 
and Path4: MNCoA↔CNCoA have one way delay 
with 64ms, 34ms, 34ms and 24ms, respectively. 
The network topology under consideration is de-
picted in Fig. 7, in which tunneling overhead is in-
cluded. 
z The average packet length of signaling is 68 bytes 
(including CoT, CoTI, HoT, HoTI, BU, and BAck). 
z The average packet length of datagram is 100 bytes. 
z The wireless bandwidth is 128kbps.  
z The L2 handoff latency is 500ms. 
z The signaling process time is omitted. 
 
HAMN
new
ARCN
HACN
MN CN
2ms
30ms
15ms 15ms
20ms
old
ARMN
2ms
new
ARMN
MN
500ms
2ms
old
ARCN
2ms
CN
500ms
Fig. 7. Network topology for simulation. 
 
 11 
 
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Th
ro
ug
hp
ut
 (%
)
MIPv6 w/RRP
TDPBU 
4
6
20
60
6
20
60
4
(128bps)
  
Fig. 10. Comparison of throughput vs. handoff frequencies 
between MIPv6/RRP and TDPBU. 
 
Route Optimization Latency and Blocking Rate 
in an Error-prone Link 
In reliable networks and protocols, error control 
schemes must be embedded. We assume that error de-
tection schemes such as Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) 
are performed in each mobile component. Once an erro-
neous signaling message was detected by receivers, or 
timeout was detected by senders, the automatic retrans-
mission mechanism is originated immediately. However, 
it will cause longer delay to combat the channel errors. 
Generally, reducing either quantity of messages or 
length of the message could reduce the error probability 
in an error-prone wireless link. 
Before evaluating the performance of the proposed 
scheme, some background conditions must be set. First, 
the bit error occurs randomly with normal distribution. If 
a bit error in a control message is detected, the message 
must be retransmitted. Once retransmission reaches 3 
times for a message, we assume that route optimization 
procedure is blocked. We define the RO latency as the 
duration from initiating the RO procedure between a MN 
and the CN to the successful arrival of the first datagram. 
Fig. 11 displays the RO latency of TDPBU and 
MIPv6/RRP vs. varying Bit Error Rate (BER) in differ-
ent RO schemes and retransmission times. Obviously, in 
high BER environment, the TDPBU can efficiently re-
duce the RO latency.  
Fig. 12 shows the relationship between RO blocking 
rate and BER in different RO schemes and retransmis-
sion times. TDPBU can significantly reduce the blocking 
rate in a high BER radio environment. According to the 
discussion above, our proposed scheme is more suitable 
for poor wireless environment than the original MIPv6. 
RO
 La
te
nc
y 
(m
s)
1E‐4 5E‐4 1E‐3 1.5E‐3 2E‐3
Bit Error Rate(%)
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
2000
2200
2400
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=2)
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=3)
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=4)
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=5)
TDPBU (RT=2)
TDPBU (RT=3)
TDPBU (RT=4)
TDPBU (RT=5)
  
Fig. 11. Comparison of route optimization latency vs. BER 
between MIPv6/RRP and TDPBU. 
 
RO
 B
lo
ck
in
g 
Ra
te
 (%
)
Bit Error Rate(%)
1E‐4 5E‐4 1E‐3 1.5E‐3 2E‐3
‐0.05
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
0.55
0.6
0.65
0.7
0.75
0.8
0.85
0.9
0.95
1
1.05
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=2)
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=3)
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=4)
MIPv6 w/RRP (RT=5)
TDPBU (RT=2)
TDPBU (RT=3)
TDPBU (RT=4)
TDPBU (RT=5)
 
Fig. 12. Comparison of route optimization blocking rate vs. 
BER between MIPv6/RRP and TDPBU. 
 
VI. 結論與討論 
The next generation IP network has already integrated 
route optimization as a fundamental part of the mobility 
support [27]. Both MIPv6 and PMIPv6 mobility man-
agement techniques have provided various route optimi-
zation mechanisms. However, some inherent problems 
of those mechanisms have not been totally solved. These 
include the ineffective route optimization procedures 
which usually are not comprehensive solutions for coex-
isting MIPv6/PMIPv6 mobility management environ-
ment. In this paper, a novel route optimization scheme is 
proposed with different view point of security concern. 
Our proposed scheme features advantages in feasible 
 13 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
J  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
本子計畫在研究發展一個可在異質無線網路下，利用網路導向(Network-based)並運
用跨層(Cross-layering)方式以減少換手(Handover)過程延遲與確保服務品質(Quality of 
Service, QoS)的行動技術，更進一步達到無接縫(Seamless)的換手。 
在本年度的研究中，我們著重於路由最佳化(route optimization)的問題。目前客戶導
向(Client-based)的行動 IP(Mobile IPv6, MIPv6)與網路導向(Network-based)的代理行動
IP(Proxy MIPv6)各有其不同的路由最佳化的機制。然而這些機制仍然有其缺陷，造成高
換手延遲時間(Handover delay)與點對點延遲時間(end-to-end delay)，進而使得無接縫換
手無法達成。尤其在行動 IP 與代理行動 IP 共存的網路之下，這種無效率的路由最佳化
機制更是造成無接縫換手無法達成的主要問題。因此我們針對兩者共存之網路中，路由
最佳化的問題提出一有效的解法，此機制能(1)改善行動管理機制的整體效能；(2)減少
訊息成本(Signal overhead)及佈建成本；(3)縮短換手與點對點延遲時間；(4)簡化網路元
件的軟體複雜度。故這套機制顯著地改善換手過程的中斷時間，有效的改善即時應用
(Real-time Application)像是 VoIP 的服務品質，並達到無接縫的換手。 
 
 
 
2011‐2012 出席國際會議報告 
 
1. FTDCS 2011大會接受函. 因本人為大會議程主席, 因此接受函收件者為學生 
 
 
 
 
3. FTDCS 2011心得報告 
 
The 13th IEEE International Workshop on Future Trends of Distributed Computing 
Systems (FTDCS 2011) 於 9月 2‐4日在加拿大的 Banff 舉行. 雖然當地偏遠, 單是
機票, 從台灣經溫哥華就要 5,6萬元. 但因為是風景勝地, 所以仍然吸引了不少
專家學者與會. 該研討會定期舉辦於世界各地, 主題為討論分散式計算之未來驅
勢與技術. 雖然不是大型的研討會, 但因為有不少熟識的專家學者, 因此反而覺
得討論熱鬧而融洽. 本人今年這屆被推薦為議程主席, 因此從年初就忙著聯絡, 
邀稿. 大會接近時又得請委員審稿, 的確忙了一大陣子. 好不容易將所有要發表
的論文整理好, 大會時間已接近了. 
本次研討會與另一 IEEE 會議  – HPCC合併舉行, 這樣子人多, 相對地可省一些辦
會議的開銷. 本人除了發表論文外, 為了選大會最佳論文, 還得每場 session 都
去聽. 後來選上了來次台灣的一篇. 也不是偏心, 只是就事論事. Banff 是加拿大
最著名的國家公園所在地, 本人雖舊地重遊, 依然覺得這兒壯闊秀麗, 四季白雪
靄靄的山水, 令人百看不厭. 三天的會議很快的就過去, 大夥兒依依賦別. Banff 
雖然是小鎮, 但因是避暑旅遊勝地, 物價高, 旅館貴, 但在國科會的出國生活費
補助上, 卻相對的低, 盼望國科會能在這方面做些調整. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳耀宗 計畫編號：98-2221-E-009-066-MY3 
計畫名稱：全光都會環狀骨幹及其光纖/無線擷取網路整合技術--子計畫二：異質無線網路中跨層網路
導向快速行動技術與品質服務之研究發展 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 3 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 1 1 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 6 100%  
博士生 4 4 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 10 6 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 15 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
