circuits, critical current density, back stress, 
voids in Al line 
 
Abstract 
 In this study, electromigration-induced failure on Sn2.5Ag lead-free micro bumps with Cu/Ni under 
bump metallization (UBM) and chip-on-chip (COC) configuration in three-dimensional integrated circuit 
samples was studied.  Compared to flip chip solder joints, micro bumps in 3D IC samples exhibit better 
electromigration resistance and are capable to withstand a higher current density.  This is attributed to the 
presence of thicker UBM and shorter bump height.  No exhibited electromigration-induced failure was 
observed when current density was below 2x104A/cm2.  After considering the effect of back stress, 
threshold current density to trigger electromigration in chip-on-chip samples was estimated to be 
7.5x104A/cm2.  When current density was higher than 7.5x104A/cm2 at an ambient temperature of 150˚C, 
no void propagation through the whole bump opening was found; instead, electromigration-induced voids 
were observed at the cathode side of Al trace.  The time-to-failure (TTF) of Al trace on three-dimensional 
integrated circuits was also studied, and the current density exponent (n) and the activation energy (Ea) were 
calculated as 1.78 and 1.22 eV, respectively. 
 
中文摘要 
 此研究中將探討三維立體封裝中之電遷移破壞機制。試片中使用的是 Sn2.5Ag微型焊錫，凸塊底
層金屬為 Cu/Ni。研究發現相較於傳統覆晶封裝技術中之焊錫球，三維立體封裝技術中之微型焊錫球
有更高的電遷移抗性並可以承受更高的電流密度，這是歸功於相對來說更厚的凸塊底層金屬以及較小
之焊錫球高度。當電流密度低於 2x104A/cm2 時，試片中看不出有電遷移所導致的破壞。考慮背向應
力所帶來的影響，我們計算出於三維立體封裝中微型焊錫臨界電流密度為 7.5x104A/cm2。不過，當
施加之電流密度超過此值時，於 150度烤箱內的試片並沒有發現焊錫內部有空孔產生；反之，空孔出
現在陰極端的鋁導線內。進一步研究鋁導線產生電遷移的破壞時間，我們可以算出其電流密度次方係
數為 1.78，而其活化能為 1.22 電子伏特。 
 
成果發表 
依據本計畫的經費的支持，部分研究成果已發表在 Journal of applied physics, 110, 123525 (2012) 
及 Materials Chemistry and physics, 136, 210 (2012). 
  
Figure 1 The thickness and compositions of the UBM on both the top chip and the bottom chip were 5 µm 
of Cu and 3 µm of Ni.   
  
 
Figure 2 The cross-sectional SEM image of the micro bumps 
 
  Figure 3 demonstrates the setup of the experiments.  Electromigration tests were performed by 
placing the samples in a furnace at the testing temperature for different periods of time. Constant direct 
current (DC) was applied by the current source, and the resistance changeover time was recorded using a 
multimeter connected to a computer for data acquisition.  By dividing the constant current into the recorded 
voltage, the resistance was obtained.  To minimize the noise of resistance variation from connecting wires, 
four point probe measurement was employed on the Kelvin structure of tested samples. The average current 
density was calculated based on the applied DC current divided by the area of the contact opening of the 
bump. Figure 4 shows the schematic representation of test structures during electromigration tests.  The 
arrows depict the electron flow direction.  Electrons entered the left micro bump from the Al pad on the 
lower chip and exited the bump from its upper right corner, and they entered the Al line on the top of the 
bump.  The electrons then flowed along the Al line and entered another stressed micro bump from its upper 
left corner.  Two ambient temperatures (110 oC and 150 oC) were chosen and only one pair of micro bumps 
changes and the different phases were identified by energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX). 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
The experimental results are summarized in Table 1. The resistance-verse-time (RVT) curves for all the 
powered samples are shown in Figure 5.  It is worth mentioning that none of the powered micro bumps 
exhibited open failure, even though some of them had underwent current stressing over thousands of hours. 
Table 1 Results of the current powered micro bumps. 
 
 
Figure 5 The overall RVT curves of the micro bumps under electromigration tests. 
 
 
 
be attributed to the presence of thicker UBM and shorter bump height.  Because the unique bump-to-line 
(Al) configuration of flip chips joints, current crowding occurred in the transition from the bump to the line 
[9,10].  The maximum current density of the bump in the current crowding region can be ten to twenty 
times higher than the average current density of the bumps [11], indicating that the current density will be at 
least 105A/cm2 in the current crowding region when the average current density of flip chip joints is 
104A/cm2.  Thus, it is widely observed that the pancake-type of voids are easier to form in the current 
crowing region, where the electrons enter the bump from the Al interconnect [1–3]. As electromigration 
drive mainly Sn atoms down, vacancies move up and the voids initiated in the current crowding region, start 
to grow.  After the void formation, electrons must pass over the front edge of the voids in order to enter the 
solder bump so the flux of vacancies would feed the void growth.  Finally, voids propogate through the 
whole cathode contact of a flip chip solder, resulting in open failure.   
However, when the thicker Cu and Ni UBM are introduced in the 3D IC samples, the occurrence of 
current crowding is shifted to the transition region from the Cu UBM to the line.  According to the 
simulated results on the distribution of current density in the 3D IC samples [12], the current density 
(104A/cm2) is found to be uniformly distributed through the whole micro bump; whereas the maximum 
current density, which is nearly ten times higher than the average current density of micro bump, occurs in 
the corner of Cu UBM connected to Al line.  Due to this transition of current crowding region in 3D IC 
samples, voids formation is observed in the Cu UBM instead of bumps, leading to improved 
electromigration performance of micro bumps.  Similar results were also reported when thicker copper 
UBM was introduced into the flip chip solder joints [13]. 
 
   
 
3.2 Effect of critical current density 
On the other hand, when the package technology is transitioning from flip-chip to 3D IC, the height of 
a solder joints is shrunk by a factor of 10. In electromigration of the shorter bump, the effect of back stress is 
worth noting. In principle, when electromigration drove the Sn atoms from the cathode to the anode, the 
latter will be in compression and the former in tension. Based on the Nabarro-Herring model of equilibrium 
vacancy concentration in a stressed solid, the tensile and compressive regions possess more and fewer 
vacancies, respectively, than the un-stressed solid. Hence, a build-up vacancy flux from cathode to anode 
occurs. The vacancy flux is strongly dependent on the bump height, and the shorter bump would exhibit a 
larger vacancy flux. Since this vacancy gradient is in the opposite direction of electromigration-induced flux, 
the driving force of electromigration is hindered by that of back stress, resulting in significant improvement 
of electromigration-resistant performance.  
To analyze the back stress effect, the atomic flux due to the presence of electromigration and back 
stress could be expressed as, 
eEZ
kT
DC
dx
d
kT
DCJ em
*+
Ω
−=
σ
 
, where Jem is atomic flux (atoms/cm2-sec), C is the concentration of atoms per unit volume, D/kT is atomic 
mobility, σ is stress (dyn/cm2), Ω is atomic volume, Z* is the effective charge number of electromigration, 
and E is the electric field (E=ρj where ρ is resistivity and j is current density).  If no electromigration 
induced damage occurs (Jem=0), the expression for the “critical current density” can be obtained as, 
xeZ
jc ∆
Ω∆
=
ρ
σ
*
 
At elastic limit, the strain is 0.2%.  For Young’s modulus of SnAg solder, we take Y = 30 GPa [14], ∆σ = 
6x107 Pa, and Ω = 16.3cm3/mole.  If we take ρ = 13.25 µΩ-cm, Z* = 17 [15], and ∆x =90 µm for flip chip 
solder joint height, the threshold current density to trigger electromigration would be 5x103A/cm2. For 3D 
IC samples in this study, the micro bump height is shrunk to 6 µm. Accordingly, we obtained a value of 
threshold current density of 7.5x104 A/cm2. 
 
 
 
 When current density was further increased to 1x105A/cm2, similar microstructure evolution was 
observed.  Figures 8(c) and (d) display the cross-sectional SEM images of the micro bump after current 
stressing of 2850 hours at 150 oC.  The whole micro bump also experienced phase transformation into 
Ni3Sn4 IMC and small voids appeared inside the IMC due to the volume shrinkage of IMC formation during 
electromigration tests.  The corresponding curve of resistance changeover time of both samples upon 
stressing at the ambient temperature of 150 oC was shown in Figure 3.  Both samples exhibited similar 
trend of resistance change, showing that resistance was quite flat after long hours stressing and abruptly 
increased.  For the sample stressing of 1x105A/cm2, the resistance increased by 11.8 % of its original value 
after 2850 hours.  If the effect of phase transformation as well as small voids inside the IMC on the 
resistance change are solely considered, it seems fail to explain the corresponding abrupt resistance increase.  
This is because that in the initial stage of voids formation, the bump resistance just increases approximate 
0.02 mΩ [16], being only 1.13x10-5 times of its original value.  On the other hand, the voids seemed not to 
be the reason of the abrupt resistance increase because the micro bumps were still well connected.  
Additionally, when the whole micro bump transformed into Ni3Sn4 IMC, the corresponding resistance only 
increased by 0.02% of its original value, suggesting that IMC formation also appeared not to be responsible 
for the abrupt resistance increase.  However, there was no electromigration-induced failure observed in the 
micro bumps in the cross-sectional SEM images as well. 
 To our surprise, void formation at the Al trace was observed for both samples, as highlighted in the 
dashed line in Figures 8(b) and 8(c). To provide a clearer view of the microstructure after electromigration, 
Figures 9(a) and 9(b) present an enlarged image of the Al line upon stressing, showing voids were clearly 
observed in the Al line. If we replace the solder bumps by a pair of W vias in Figure 1, the structure is 
similar to a two level Al/W/Al interconnect structure, which has been widely used to test electromigration in 
the Al interconnect technology.  The failure mode is the wear-out mechanism where void formation occurs 
at the cathode of Al interconnect above W via due to flux divergence [17–19], but no voids formation occurs 
at the anode of Al interconnect. Similarly, in the 3D IC micro bump structure as shown in Figure 8, the 
resultant voids in the Al region were at the cathode, since electrons traveled from left to right in the Al 
interconnect. In fact, when the current density in the micro bump is 8x104 A/cm2, the current density in the 
interconnect is about 1.1x106 A/cm2 due to a smaller cross-section of Al interconnect. Additionally, the 
bumps endured an average current density of 1.41 x106 A/cm2, which was more than ten times of that in the 
micro bumps.  The maximum current density of 1.74x106 A/cm2 was generated in the corner of the 
entrance between Al trace and Cu UBM. 
 
Table 2 Parameters of each material in the simulation. 
  
Fig.10. Simulated results of micro bumps undergoing 1x105 A/cm2 at 150oC. 
 
3.5 The calculations of Ea for void formation on the Al lines  
 Since the failure mode of the micro bumps is mainly attributed to the electromigration-induced failure 
in the Al trace, the time-to-failure may be obtained from sample G and sample H, in which the resistance 
increased about 10% of its original value at 4950 and 2903 hours, respectively.  The equation of 
mean-time-to-failure 






=
kT
E
jAMTTF
a
n
exp1
 
If we take the current density/stressing time to be 8x104A/cm2/4950 hours and 1x105A/cm2/2903 hours 
into the equation, where A = 0.8 and k is Boltzmann’s constant, the current density exponent, n can be 
acquired to be 1.78, which is quite similar as the value 1.8 reported in the electromigration in Al 
Besides electromigration, the effect of thermomigration should be considered in the micro bump of 3D 
IC samples since some literatures [20,21] have reported that thermomigration may accompany with 
electromigration to induce failure in the flip chip technology.  In electromigration of flip chip solder joints, 
the joule heating from the Cu bond-pads on the substrate side was much less than that from the Al 
interconnects on the chip side due to bigger dimension of Cu pad on the substrate side.  Thus this joule 
heating difference between substrate and chip would establish a temperature gradient across the solder joints, 
probably causing thermomigration to occur.  However, due to symmetrical chip-to-chip configuration of 
the samples, the joule heating generated by Al interconnect on the top and bottom chips should be equal, 
indicating that the effect of temperature gradient is insignificant in the present study.  Therefore, the 
microstructure evolution as shown in Figure 7 and Figure 8 is mainly due to electromigration. 
 
4. Conclusions 
 (1) The electromigration-induced failure mechanism on the lead-free Sn2.5Ag micro bumps in 3D IC 
package samples was successfully studied.  Comparing with solder bumps in flip chip packaging, micro 
bumps possess a pronouncedly improved resistance against electromigration effect, and are capable to 
withstand a higher current density.  A threshold current density to trigger electromigration in 3D IC has 
been found to be 7.5x104A/cm2.  
 (2) When the current density was further increased to 8x104A/cm2 at an ambient temperature of 150oC, 
no void propagation through the solder joints was observed; instead, electromigration-induced voids were 
observed at the cathode side of Al trace, suggesting that the failure mode of voids in the Al line cannot be 
ignored in the 3D IC technology.  
 (3) According to the stressing data of 8x104A/cm2 and 1x105A/cm2 samples, the current density 
exponent, n, and the activation energy, Ea, could be calculated respectively to be 1.78 and 1.22eV by using 
Black MTTF equation.  These calculated values are in reasonable agreement with the literature values.   
The TTF prediction based on the calculated values also consists with the experimental results of the sample 
under stressing of 6x104A/cm2 at 150oC.  
 
 
參加美國佛州奧蘭多2012年國際材料年會會議報告 
 
國立清華大學工程與系統科學系 歐陽汎怡教授 
 
美國冶金及材料國際材料年會會議(The Mineral, Metals & Materials 
Society, 140th Annual meeting and Exhibition )於美國佛州奧蘭多(Orlando, 
FL)的 Swan and Dolphin Resort, Walt Disney World 三月十一日開幕，全程共
計五日，主辦者為美國礦物，金屬和材料學會（TMS）的專業組織，會議內容非
常多元化，總共有七十三大類，包括輕金屬，電子，磁性和光子材料，能源材料
與技術(包含核能應用)，結構材料的製程，表面工程，結構與分析等的基礎研究
與應用。參與的人員來自世界各地，有學術界學校教授，業界研發人員與工程師
冶金，材料工程師，科學家，研究人員及學生等，與會人員來自 70 多個國家，
分布在六大洲，如美、德、法、日、加、英、瑞士、芬蘭、丹麥、荷蘭等國，其
中以美國最多，歐洲其次，亞洲第三。亞洲參加國以日本、韓國及中華民國為主，
我國參與人數至少有 40 人以上，分布在北中南大學，在 Pb-free solder and 
other materials for emerging interconnect and package technologies 及
phase stability, phase transformations, and reactive phase formation in 
electronic materials 這領域，除筆者外尚有台灣大學教授高振宏教授，清華
大學陳信文教授與杜正恭教授，成功大學林光榮教授與林士剛教授，中央大學劉
正毓與吳子嘉教授，中興大學陳志銘教授，元智大學何政恩教授等，我國學生參
來豐富消費者的使用經驗。Cisco 的 TK Lee 博士講授了等溫時效對可靠度的影
響，他指出 surface finish 對銲錫及內導線的可靠度扮演了一個重要的地位，
且須把不同尺寸的 package size 及晶片尺寸的影響考慮進去，他並探討了在
WLCSP 和 PBGA 技術中的破壞模式。Osaka University 的 Katsuaki Suganuma 教
授提出了兩個 ultra-heat-resistant 的 die attach materials-具有 micro and 
submicron sizes 的 Ag particle 的 Ag paste 及純 Zn 銲錫。下午時段 LSI 
corporation的 John Osenbach博士則分享在2.5及3維立體封裝技術中，材料、
製成以及可靠度分析上的挑戰與機會。馬里蘭大學的 Abhijit Dasgupta 教授 w
談論無鉛銲錫在不同環境 stressing 下的可靠度研究，如 mechanical cycling, 
isothermal aging and thermo-mechanical cycling。 
追求輕、薄、短、小，省電與高效能，是 3C 消費產品之趨勢。原有的二維
平面堆疊(2D IC)技術已臻成熟，然而電子產品尺寸愈趨短小及線路設計越趨複
雜，在效能與尺寸的快速演進下，已漸漸地不敷使用，各家大廠以及研究單位紛
紛尋求解決辦法，勢必得開發更先進且高效能的晶片製程及封裝技術。以此前提
下，三維立體堆疊晶片封裝技術 (3D IC)似乎居要角之位，可以想見的，未來能
掌握 3D IC 製程技術及檢測方法，或能否搶先推出實際產品，勢必成為重要的
決勝關鍵。因此這次會議中有很多的 talks 是主要討論 3 維立體封裝技術中超微
小的銲錫球的尺寸影響。3D IC 即是將多顆晶片，進行三維空間垂直整合。透過
晶片堆疊，能將多種不同功能之晶片整合於一身。3D IC 與傳統二維平面的整合
將是最大需要克服的技術瓶頸且急需深入了解其破壞機制。筆者也在此
symposium 中分享了在電流及溫度梯度影響下，三維立體封裝中超微小銲錫球的
破壞模式，並將結果與覆晶封裝技術相比。三維立體封裝中不均勻的熱漲冷縮也
會對晶片群本身以及之間的鍵結產生很大的熱應力累積，對產品之長期可靠性有
不良的影響，因此有眾多的 talks 皆 present 了超微小銲錫球在 aging 狀態下的
機械性質行為。 
隨著歐洲環保法規RoHS(歐盟電子電機設備中危害物質禁用指令)於2006年
七月立法要求電子產品全面禁用包括鉛、鎘、汞、六價鉻、溴化耐燃劑等六種物
質，micro-bumps 材料將會使用無鉛銲錫如錫銅(SnCu)及錫銀銅 SnAgCu 等。當
無鉛銲錫廣泛使用後，錫鬚成長(Sn whisker growth)即將會是一個嚴重的可靠
度問題。會議中也有多位專家分享錫鬚成長的機制及發生的必要條件，如 Carol 
Handwerker from Purdue University 就分享晶粒的方位和應變分布如何影響錫
鬚的成長。John Koppes from Purdue University 也談論了在 temperature cycle
的環境下發現錫鬚的成長。目前詳細錫鬚成長的機制仍眾說紛紜，且隨著三維立
體封裝中 pitch 的縮小，錫鬚導致地破壞模式將會更獲得重視，此領域值得深入
研究。 
儘管 3D IC 技術開發充滿許多困難與不確定因素，在消費性電子產品高
效能、高整合度、低功耗等元件規格趨勢之下， 3 維立體封裝(3D IC)，已成未
來封裝必走之路，和傳統的封裝技術相比，3D 整合技術可以縮短晶片
長不少見聞。會後攜回會議手冊及光碟一份，以及未來研發工作的題材，此次會
議收穫良多。 
 
會議中與成大林士剛教授及學生們合影。 
 
會議中與清大陳柏宇教授合影。 
 
  
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：歐陽汎怡 計畫編號：100-2221-E-007-072- 
計畫名稱：在三維立體封裝可攜式電子產品中電遷移及熱遷移對超微小銲錫球之可靠度影響研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
依據本計畫的經費的支持，部分研究成果已發表在 Journal of applied physics, 110, 
123525 (2012) 及 Materials Chemistry and physics, 136, 210 (2012). 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫成功的探討在當今最熱門的三維立體封裝技術中的電遷移破壞機制。試片中使用的
是 Sn2.5Ag 微型焊錫，凸塊底層金屬為 Cu/Ni。研究發現相較於傳統覆晶封裝技術中之焊
錫球，三維立體封裝技術中之微型焊錫球有更高的電遷移抗性並可以承受更高的電流密
度，這是歸功於相對來說更厚的凸塊底層金屬以及較小之焊錫球高度。當銲錫球高度越來
越小，背向應力所帶來的影響應該被考慮，因此藉由理論的計算，我們發現當電流密度低
於 2x10^4A/cm^2 時，試片中看不出有電遷移所導致的破壞，反而在三維立體封裝中微型
焊錫引起電遷移破壞的臨界電流密度為 7.5x10^4A/cm^2。然而，當施加之電流密度超過
此臨界電流密度值時，於 150 度烤箱內的試片並沒有發現焊錫內部有貫穿開口的空孔產
生；反之，空孔出現在陰極端的鋁導線內。進一步研究鋁導線由於電遷移產生孔洞的破壞
時間，我們可以算出其鋁導線破壞時間對於電流密度次方係數為 1.78，而其活化能為
1.22 電子伏特。此外，我們也藉由 COMSL 的模擬軟體，成功的模擬出微小銲錫球與鋁導
線在電流作用下的電流分布，發現鋁導線所承受的電流密度高達 10^6 A/cm2，更在進一步
證實鋁導線產生孔洞的原因。在本研究中，也分別探討了在高溫等溫熱處理與熱遷移對此
試片的影響。 
   根據本計畫的結果，可提供現今半導體產業對於三維立體封裝技術電遷移破壞機制的
方向，可知要提高微小銲錫球的電遷移抗性，可從採取較厚的 UBM 介層與較短的銲錫高度
來達成。當採用較厚的 UBM 介層時，可有效地降低電流擁擠的效用。當採用較短的銲錫高
