 2
中文摘要 
 
 小波轉換具有許多優點，例如：多解析度處理模式、子頻道分解技術、小波轉換係
數在相同方向的子頻道間存有高相關性、以及係數間存有能量聚集性等，這些特性都是
對多媒體訊號處理有實質上的幫助，因此，小波影像處理技術相當受到國內外學術界的
重視，其應用價值深具發展潛力；JPEG2000 國際標準就是採用小波轉換為核心技術。目
前較具代表性的技術是 SPIHT 和 EBCOT；前者屬樹狀編碼法，而後者為區塊編碼法。樹
狀編碼是先把係數組成樹狀結構後，利用小波係數在相同方向的子頻道間存有高相關性
的特性，達到壓縮效果；區塊編碼則是利用相鄰小波係數間存有能量聚集的特性，但若
影像中含有高頻紋路(textures)成份時，樹狀結構之零樹(zero-tree)小波係數群組的
機率會大幅降低，影響SPIHT的壓縮效果。利用小波封包轉換(wavelet packet transform)
能提供更多的基底函數之優勢，我們發展出一套以四分樹結構(quad-tree structure)
為基礎的可適性小波封包轉換，結合新的小波封包係數排列技術，可獲得同時具有金字
塔階層架構(pyramid architecture)以及多變化子頻道分解等優點的可適性小波封包樹
(adaptive wavelet packet trees)，實驗結果顯示可以大幅改善影像壓縮品質。 
 
 
 
 
 
關鍵字： 可適性小波封包轉換，零樹編碼技術，SPIHT 編碼技術 
 4
I. Introduction 
 
Wavelet transform provides many desirable properties such as efficient multiresolution 
representations, scalability, and progressive transmissions that are beneficial to the image 
compression applications [1]. It is well noted that if a wavelet coefficient is not significant, 
then all the spatially related wavelet coefficients (in the successively higher frequency 
subbands of the same orientation) are likely to be insignificant. Shapiro first introduced the 
above-mentioned self similarity of wavelet coefficients and proposed the embedded zero-tree 
wavelet (EZW) algorithm [2]. The improved version known as set partitioning in hierarchical 
trees (SPIHT) has been considered a benchmark [3]. Mukherjee and Mitra proposed a vector 
extension called VSPIHT, in which wavelet coefficients are first grouped into small vectors 
and then coded by SPIHT [4]. Besides the famous EZW and SPIHT algorithms based on the 
self-similarity of wavelet coefficients, there are alternative algorithms based on the energy 
clustering of wavelet coefficients [5]-[7]. Taubman proposed the EBCOT algorithm [8], 
which has been adopted by JPEG2000 [9]. In general, JPEG2000 outperforms JPEG; however, 
the computational complexity of EBCOT is highly intense [10]. 
For images with textures, many high frequency wavelet coefficients are likely to become 
significant after few code passes of SPIHT, which leads to a dramatic deterioration in coding 
performances. As discussed in [11], a great diversity of basis functions obtained by wavelet 
packet transform is desirable for decomposing the significant wavelet subbands of an image. 
Ramchandran and Vetterli [12], and Xiong et al. [13] proposed rate-distortion based wavelet 
packet selection that will be adaptively suited to the various space-frequency properties of 
images. However, this approach is computationally intensive. A generalized tree structure 
proposed by Rajpoot et al. [14] and its extended version proposed by Sprljan et al. [15] aim at 
constructing adaptive wavelet packet trees for zero-tree image coding. In which, a set of rules 
is required to solve the so-called parental conflict problem: the spatial resolution of a parent 
node in SPIHT is finer than that of the children mpdes. In [16], we avoid parental conflict by 
reorganizing the wavelet packet coefficients of an image. 
As suggested in [14] and [15], a coefficient that has more parents than one on the next 
higher tree level could be reassigned a new single parent located at the same relative position 
on a much higher tree level in order to solve parental conflict. The idea behind this approach 
is to generalize parent-child relationships for wavelet packets. The resulting tree structures are 
variable and may not be of quad-tree structure. Thus, the widely used quad-tree based SPIHT 
algorithm would have to be modified to code trees with arbitrary structures. In contrast to [14] 
and [15], we develop a simple scheme to rearrange wavelet packet coefficients such that the 
 3LL 3HL
3LH 3HH 2HL
2LH 2HH 1HL
1LH 1HH
),(12 nmD
),(11 nmD
),(32 nmD
),(21 nmD ),(
3
1 nmD
),(22 nmD
 
(a)                           (b) 
 
3LL 3HL
3LH 3HH 2HL
2LH 2HH 1HL
1LH
),(12 nmD
),(11 nmD
),(21 nmD
),(22 nmD
 
(c)                           (d) 
Fig. 1 Example of WT and WPT, (a) 3-level WT, (b) a hierarchical wavelet tree in the 
diagonal orientation, (c) a 3-level WPT with subbands delimited by thick lines, (d) a 
hierarchical wavelet packet tree in the diagonal orientation. 
 
II.2 Review of the SPIHT algorithm 
After WT, the spatially related wavelet coefficients can be organized to form hierarchical 
trees based on the resolution level, in which the leaf nodes are at the finest resolution. Each 
non-leaf node can be a parent node with four children nodes at the next finer resolution. Figure 
1(b) shows a wavelet tree in the diagonal orientation. If a parent node is insignificant with 
respect to a given threshold, all the descendant nodes are likely to be insignificant with respect to 
the same threshold; thus, these nodes may form a zero-tree and can be efficiently coded by 
SPIHT. The following is the SPIHT algorithm presented in steps [3]. 
 
 6
and then coded in a group manner. Thus, the desirable quad-trees with adaptive wavelet 
packets should be the one with as many insignificant non-offspring nodes as possible. 
Specifically, after L-level WT, an image is decomposed into multiresolution wavelet 
subbands (from the coarsest resolution L to the finest resolution 1). For each wavelet subband 
at resolution  (l 2−≤ L ), the wavelet packet coefficients generated by p-level WPT are 
rearranged; notice that wavelet packet coefficients are actually wavelet coefficients and 
therefore no rearrangement takes place while 0=p . Together with the subbands at coarser 
resolutions: +1 and +2, a collection of 3-level quad-trees can be obtained, in which the 
rearranged wavelet packet coefficients (obtained from the wavelet subband at resolution l ) 
are the leaf nodes. If any descendant nodes of a tree become significant, it is called a broken 
tree. For computational simplicity, the following measure indicating the weighted number of 
broken (3-level) quad-trees due to the (non-offspring) leaf nodes is proposed. 
l l
∑
∈
⋅=
pBt
p tSigtNS )()(                            (1) 
where  denotes the set of the constructed wavelet packet trees with leaf nodes obtained 
from a wavelet subband by using p-level WPT, 
pB
1)( =tSig  if t is a broken tree; otherwise 
, and denotes the number of significant groups of 4 neighboring leaf nodes in a 
broken tree: t. 
0=)(tSig )(tN
In view of zero-tree coding, it is desirable that the sum of the proposed measures over 
the individual wavelet subbands of an image is minimized. For the sake of simplicity, an 
efficient algorithm is proposed to construct hierarchical quad-trees with adaptive wavelet 
packets. The pseudo-code is as follows: 
 
1) Decompose the input image using L-level WT. Set =l L-2. 
2) For each wavelet subband at resolution l , set 1=p . 
Loop: 
Compute the wavelet packet coefficients using p-level WPT. 
Rearrange these wavelet packet coefficients. 
Together with the subbands (of the same orientation) at resolutions: +1 and 
+2, construct 3-level quad-trees, and compute  (defined in equation (1)) 
l
l pS
If r
p
pp T
S
SS <×−
−
− %100
1
1 , exit the loop; otherwise increase p by 1. 
Continue the loop until l−= Lp . 
 8
frequency wavelet coefficients become significant in the early passes of SPIHT. As shown in 
Figure 3, the proposed SPIAWPT outperforms SPIHT at the low bit rates. For aerial images 
with textures such as San Francisco, SPIAWPT is preferable to SPIHT as shown in Figure 
4.Compression of fingerprints images is one of the most important issues, which demands the 
best solution. As one can expect, further decompositions of wavelet subbands would be 
desirable. It is noted that a significant improvement can be obtained by using SPIAWPT in 
terms of the rate distortion curves shown in Figure 5. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Test images (left column) with the subband decompositions by SPIAWPT (right 
column), from top to bottom: Barbara, San Francisco, and Fingerprint resized. 
 10
 12
V. 計畫成果與結論 
In the widely used SPIHT algorithm, the constructed wavelet trees of an image can be 
efficiently encoded by exploiting the self similarity property of wavelet coefficients across 
subbands of the same orientation. However, for texture-rich images, many middle-high 
frequency wavelet coefficients are likely to become significant after a few coding passes of 
SPIHT. It is thus desirable if wavelet subbands are represented by using adaptive wavelet 
packet basis functions. To incorporate with the framework of SPIHT, a quad-tree based 
adaptive wavelet packet transform has been developed to construct the adaptive wavelet 
packet trees, which can be efficiently encoded by SPIHT at no extra cost of coding 
complexity. Experimental results show that the proposed set partitioning in adaptive wavelet 
packet trees (SPIAWPT) is superior to set partitioning in wavelet trees, especially for coding 
fingerprints images, which is one of the most demanding tasks. 
 
 
重要參考文獻 
[1] M. Antonini, M. Barlaud, P. Mathieu, and I. Daubechies, “Image Coding Using 
Wavelet Transform,” IEEE Trans. On Image Processing, vol. 1, pp. 205-220, 1992. 
[2] J. M. Shapiro, “Embedded Image Coding Using Zero-Trees of Wavelet Coefficients,” 
IEEE Trans. On Signal Processing, vol. 40, pp. 3445-3462, 1993. 
[3] A. Said and W. A. Pearlman, “A New, Fast, and Efficient Image Codec Based on Set 
Partitioning in Hierarchical Trees,” IEEE Trans. On Circuits Syst. Video Tech. vol. 6, 
pp. 243-250, 1996. 
[4] D. Mukherjee and S. K. Mitra, “Vector SPIHT for Embedded Wavelet Video and 
Image Coding,” IEEE Trans. On Circuits Syst. Video Tech. vol. 13, pp. 231-246, 
March, 2003. 
[5] A. Said and W. A. Pearlman, “Low Complexity Waveform Coding via Alphabet and 
Sample-Set Partitioning,” Proc. SPIE Visual Communications and Image Processing, 
vol. 3024, pp. 25-37, Feb., 1997. 
[6] J. Andrew, “A Simple and Efficient Hierarchical Image Coder,” Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. 
Image Processing (ICIP), vol. 3, pp. 658-661, Oct., 1997. 
[7] W. A. Pearlman, A. Islam, N. Nagaraj, and A. Said, “Efficient, Low Complexity Image 
Coding With a Set-Partitioning Embedded Block Coder,” IEEE Trans. On Circuits 
Syst. Video Tech. vol. 14, pp. 1219-1235, Nov., 2004. 
[8] D. Taubman, “High Performance Scalable Image Compression with EBCOT,” IEEE 
Trans. On Image Processing, vol. 9, pp. 1158-1170, July, 2000. 
  14
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97－2221－E－239－031－MY2 
計畫名稱 可適性小波(封包)影像編碼研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
辛錫進 
國立聯合大學資訊工程學系 
會議時間地點 October 4-7 2009, Sapporo, Japan 
會議名稱 Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association (APSIPA) 
發表論文題目 JPEG2000-Based Image Features with Its Application to Texture Segmentation
 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
Asia-Pacific Signal and Information Processing Association (APSIPA) 是一個探討訊號處理
以及資訊相關領域的國際研討會，該會議每年舉辦一次，提供學術界、產業界、研發機構等
學者、專家一個共同討論最新科技發展的平台，透過論文發表最新研究成果、想法與技術開
發應用等。此次會議的舉辦時間是 2009年 10月 4日至 7日，主要的研究課題如下： 
1. Signal Processing: Speech, language, audio, image, video, multimedia, information forensics 
and security, signal processing for communications, signal processing theory and methods, 
biomedical / biological signal processing 
2. Communication Systems: Communication and information theory, information and network 
security, wireless communications and networking, standards and emerging technology, RF 
and antennas 
3. Information Processing: Database and data mining, ubiquitous and mobile computing, 
computer vision and pattern recognition, computer science fundamentals 
4. Multimedia and Computer Graphics: Media processing, interaction and interface, virtual 
reality and augmented virtuality, computer graphics and visualization fundamentals 
5. Circuits and Systems/VLSI: Biomedical circuits and systems, nanoelectronics and gigascale 
systems, neural systems and applications, VLSI systems and applications, and embedded 
systems 
 
參加會議的學者、專家來自世界各地，不僅吸引學術界的菁英參與且有不少業界的研發
人才共襄盛舉，個人聆聽演講並隨即和與會之各國學者交換研究心得。我的論文報告被安排
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
IMECS 2008, Hong Kong, 優秀論文獎 (The Certificate of Merit) 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3篇 SCI 與 1 篇 SCIE 期刊論文已刊登 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
小波影像分析與編碼技術相當受到國內外學術界的重視，小波的應用價值深具發展潛力，
本研究計畫對小波研究及應用發展絕對有相當程度的學術價值，實際參與研究計畫的學生
可從中獲得寶貴的經驗，瞭解小波理論基礎與多解析度分析及處理技術，加強學生對發展
工具與模擬軟體的使用技巧，提高學生學習熱誠及信心，增加競爭力與就業力。本校資工
系也會因計畫的完成而提升學生的專業素養，更有機會配合國家高科技多媒體系統發展的
需求，培育我國數位訊號處理與前瞻影像處理技術之高科技人才。本計畫之共同主持人宋
志雲教授是中華大學微電子工程學系教授，近年來我們共同研究小波影像處理技術和
CORDIC-Based FFT/IFFT processors 及 DCT/IDCT processors 相關技術，部份研究成果
已刊登於 SCI/EI 期刊及國內外知名研討會論文集，我們的研究將有助於提升國內有關前
瞻影像處理技術之研發與實現。 
