 
中文摘要 
 
本計畫研究如何以簡潔的方式呈現一張圖形，獲得目前四連通平面圖的
可視性呈現中，高度最佳的表示法。 
 
中文關鍵字 
演算法，平面圖，簡潔呈現，可視性呈現 
 
 
英文摘要 
We investigate how to draw a four-connected planar graph using visibility 
representation. We obtain a drawing algorithm whose height is currently the 
best and achives the optimum. 
 
 
英文關鍵字 
algorithms, planar graphs, compact drawing, visibility representation. 
 
 
研究成果自評 
感謝國科會的經費支持，讓本計畫可以順利的進行，目前所獲得的研究
成果，與當初當初計畫書當中所規劃的略有差異，原本希望利用
separator-based 的方法，在簡潔呈現上面獲得最佳的成果，不過後來發
現可以使用新的工具，獲得本報告當中的結果，算是意外的驚喜。從報
告的正文中，可以看到這個問題已經經過非常長時間的競爭，我們很幸
運地能夠在激烈的競爭中得到最好的結果，覺得非常榮幸！ 
An ordered list O consisting of elements a1, a2, . . . , ak is written as O = 〈a1, a2, . . . , ak〉. The
reverse of an ordered list O is 〈ak, . . . , a2, a1〉, which is denoted by Or.
G is a 4-connected plane triangulation with three exterior vertices VN , VW , VE in ccw order. We
delete the edge (VW , VE), and G has a new exterior vertex VS . This graph is called G′. Let G′ be a
plane graph with four vertices on its exterior face. A graph satisfying the following two conditions
is a proper triangulated plane (PTP for short)[5]. Every interior face of G′ is a triangle and the
exterior face of G′ is a quadrangle [6]; G’ has no separating triangles.
Fact 1 (see [5, 6]) Let G be a 2-connected plane graph with an st-orientation O. VR of G can be
obtained from O and the height of the VR equals the length of the longest directed path in O, which
can be obtainable in linear time.
Fact 2 (Theorem 3 of Zhang and He [11]) Let G = (V,E) be a plane triangulation with n
vertices. Let v1, v2, vn be three external vertices in counterclockwise order. Let R = {T1, T2, Tn} be
a realizer of G. If there is a path in any of Ti, i = 1, 2, n with length at least k, then G has an st
orientation O, constructible in linear time with length(O)≤ n− k +O(1).
Zhang and He [11] did not write ub this form. They proved that if there is a path in any of
Ti, i = 1, 2, n with length at least n3 , then G has an st-orientation O with length(O) ≤ 2n3 + O(1).
By the proof Zhang and He [11], we can rewrite their theorem in this form.
G’ is a PTP. A regular edge labeling (REL for short), Zhang and He defined in [9], of G’ is a
partition of the interior edges into two subsets S1, S2 of directed edges and the follows hold:
1. For each interior vertex v, the edges incident to v in ccw order around v as follows: a set of
edges in S1 leaving v; a set of edges in S2 entering v; a set of edges in S1 entering v; a set of
edges in S2 leaving v. All sets must be nonempty.
2. All interior edges incident to VN are in S1 and the direction of edges is entering VN . All interior
edges incident to VW are in S2 and the direction of edges is leaving VW . All interior edges
incident to VS are in S1 and the direction of edges is leaving VS . All interior edges incident
to VE are in S2 and the direction of edges is entering VE . All blocks must be nonempty.
G1 is the directed subgraph of G’ induced by S1 and four exterior edges directed as VS −→
VW , VW −→ VN , VS −→ VE , VE −→ VN . Then G1 is an st-plane graph with source VS and
sink VN . G2 is the directed subgraph of G’ induced by S2 and four exterior edges directed as
VW −→ VS , VS −→ VE , VW −→ VN , VN −→ V E. Then G2 is an st-plane graph with source VW and
sink VE . Then we call G1 the S-N net and G2 the W-E net of G’ derived from the REL (S1, S2).G′
has a REL if and the only if G′ is a PTP. [9]
Property 1 G′ is a PTP. G′ has an REL separating G′ into two subgraphs G1 and G2. We need
a property of an st-numbering Op for G′ in our algorithm. For all directed path p in G′ with an
st-orientation Op, p do not pass all paths in G1 twice.
3 our algorithm
With fact 1, we konw that we can find the height of VR of G by the way to find the longest path
of an st-orientation of G. Our algorithm is as follows. G′ is a PTP. First, we find an st-numbering
2
And u succeeds v in O, too. On the other hand, if u is not in TNA , then u is either in area B or
area C. Whether u is in area B or area C, u succeeds v in O. For any vertex v in B, the parent
of v is uN in Tn at area A. And uN precedes v in O. The parent is uS in Ts at area C. And uS
succeeds v in O. For any vertex v 6= VE and VS in C, the parent of v in TSC succeeds v in O. The
parent u in Te precedes v in the ccw postordering in Ts. If u in TSC , u precedes v in Oc. Thus, u
precedes v in Oc, and hence in O. On the other hand, if u is not in TSC , u is in area A or area B.
Whether u is in area B or area C, u precedes v in O. VW precedes VN , and VE succeeds VN . VW
precedes VS , and VE succeeds VS . O is an st-orientation for G′. In O, the increasing path can only
pass area B at most two nodes. There are k − 2 nodes in area B. Thus, the length of the longest
path in G′ with O is at most n− k + 4.
Lemma 2 The time complexity of our algorithm is O(n).
proof.
We construct the numbering Op of the nodes in G′ with property 1. First, we number the
nodes in WEd k2+1
2
e path, we number from VW to the node before VE by 1, 2, . . . , j − 1, if there
are j nodes in WEd k2+1
2
e path. We number the paths on the area at left of WEd k2+1
2
e path
and separate by WEd k2+1
2
e path, first. We number the unnumbered nodes by path in the order
SN2, SN3, . . . , SNk1−1 and with increasing order from the node near WEd k2+1
2
e path to the node
near VN in G1. Then we number the other unnumbered nodes in the order SN2, SN3, . . . , SNk1−1
and with increasing order from the node near WEd k2+1
2
e path to the node near VS in G1. At last,
we number VS to be (n− 2), VN to be (n− 1), and VE to be n. We prove Op is an st-orientation
as follow.
For all nodes v in WEd k2+1
2
e path , the nodes at the right or left of WEd k2+1
2
e path succeed v
in Op. For all nodes v 6= VW in WEd k2+1
2
e path, the node directing to v precedes v in Op. For all
other nodes v 6= VN , VW , VS , and VE , the node connecting v near WEd k2+1
2
e path in G1 precedes v.
If v connects WEd k2+1
2
e path, the node in WEd k2+1
2
e path precedes v. For the other nodes v at the
area at left of WEd k2+1
2
e path and v 6= VN , the node which v directing to in G1 succeeds v in Op.
For the other nodes v 6= VS , and at the area at right of WEd k2+1
2
e path, the node directing to v in
G1 succeeds v in Op. And VW precedes VN and VS . VE succeeds VN and VS . VW is 1, and VE is
n. Thus, Op is an st-orientation.
This numbering Op can be finished in linear time. The orientation derived from Op of G′ is a
directed acyclic graph. Finding the longest path in directed acyclic graph takes linear time. If the
length of he longest path is more thann2 , we create a new st-numbering O. And we take linear time
to create a new st-numbering. We can find the height of VR ≤ n2 in linear time by our algorithm.
Theorem 1 Let G = (V,E) be a 4-connected plane triangulation with n vertices. There exists a
VR of G with height no more than n2 + 4, which is obtainable in O(n) time.
proof.
In algorithm 1, if the length of PL is more than n2 , we create a new st-numbering O to pass the
vertices in PL by only two vertices. Thus, the length of the longest path with st-orientation O in G′
is no more than n2 +4 by Lemma 1. If the length of PL is no more than
n
2 , Op is the st-orientation
4
