 I 
 
Measurements and modeling of two-dimensional underwater geomorphic flows 
Final report, October 2009 
 
Summary 
The two-year research project investigates two-dimensional geomorphic flows induced by gravity 
and jetting action along lake bottoms and sea beds. Processes of particular interest include 
gravity-driven avalanching as well as sediment transport due to turbidity underflows along the 
foresets of alluvial deltas. They also include sand erosion, transport, and deposition inside and 
outside of trenches incised by jets moving along the sea bed. The first year of the project focused 
on laboratory-scale jetting and breaching flows. In the second year, we focused on field 
measurements of deltaic sedimentation in the Wushe Reservoir, Central Taiwan, complemented 
by laboratory and mathematical modeling. Key results from the first and second year are 
presented below in two main sections of this final report.  
 
Keywords: DELTA; TUBIDITY CURRENTS; ALLUVIAL CHANNELS; JETS; SEDIMENT 
TRANSPORT 
 
摘要 
本兩年計畫在探索二維地形流對於地貌之影響，主要針對異重流對於湖泊底床，以及射流
對海床所造成的地形、地貌變化。有興趣的變化過程包括由重力驅動的崩塌，與沿著沖積
扇前緣處混濁之暗流所造成的輸砂行為；同樣也包含射流於海床挖掘蝕溝時所產生的砂粒
侵蝕、傳輸、沉積的過程。在本計畫第二年，我們將著眼於位在中台灣之霧社水庫庫區中
呈三角洲形態淤積的現象，以現地測量得到地形資料，並佐以實驗以及數值模式進行分析。
第一年與第二年關鍵的研究成果將於本成果報告中，分成兩個部份的內容呈現。 
 
關鍵字：三角洲；混濁流；沖積扇渠道；射流；輸砂 
 2 
preliminary model of the resulting sidewall shape evolution. Our relation for the rate of widening 
due to breaching is (see also Figure 2) 
 ÷
ø
ö
ç
è
æ
-==
¶
¶ 0,
tan
tan
1max 00 q
q
ll
x
yU ,  
where 0l  is the speed of retreat of a vertical trench wall, dependent on the properties of the 
sediment material (void ratio and permeability), and 0q  is the angle of repose. The dependence 
ql( ) of the breaching speed with the trench angle is such that the breaching speed does not 
reach a maximum for vertical walls, but instead continues to increase for adverse angles 
(overhanging walls). This is important because it allows the breaching process to diffuse small 
local departures of the trench wall profile )(zy  away from vertical, thus exerting a smoothing 
effect on the wall shape. A second feature of interest is the non-linear dependence whereby the 
breaching speed vanishes for angles below or equal to the angle of repose. Breaching may thus 
proceed until the sidewall has stabilized to the angle of repose.  
 
Figure 2. Evolution of a trench cross-section due to sedimentation (left) and breaching (right). 
 
1.2. Trench erosion by moving point jets 
The second issue examined in depth concerns the erosion of underwater trenches by moving 
point jets, studied using a combination of theory (left) and experiment (right). For these flows, 
we have developed a successful model based on a series of ordinary differential equations 
describing the coupled flow and trench shape evolution as a function of the distance behind the 
moving point jet.  
 
 4 
1.3. Trench erosion by multiple jets mounted on a moving sword 
The third and most difficult advance that we have achieved concerns the modeling of trenching 
flows induced by multiple jets mounted on realistic moving swords. For such configurations, we 
have developed, tested and calibrated a novel model based on an idealized view of concurrent 
parallel jets interacting with an eroding sediment bed. Trench shapes calculated with the model 
are found to be in good agreement with experimental observations. The model and some sample 
results are illustrated in the figures below 
 
 
Figure 5. Laboratory experiments (top) and computational modeling (bottom)  
of submarine jet trenching in sands. 
 
Figure 6. Jet coalescence model used to describe the eroding action of multiple jets. 
 
2. DELTAIC RESERVOIR SEDIMENTATION 
In the second year, we focused on deltaic sedimentation processes in mountain reservoirs, with 
 6 
 
 
Figure 8. March 2009 survey of the subaerial (top) and subaqueous (bottom) parts of the Wushe 
Reservoir delta, performed by our team of graduate students. 
 8 
 
 
Figure 11. Survey lines acquired during our March 2009 measurement campaign. Top: 3D view; 
bottom: distorted side view highlighting the stacked terrace lines (brown) left by incision of the 
subaerial delta upon decrease of the water level, as well as the cuspate profiles of the water line 
and subaqueous foreset (blue).  
2.2. Laboratory experiments 
To model deltaic sedimentation of the type observed in Wushe Reservoir, we conducted new 
 10 
 
Figure 13. Successive deltaic profiles for the small scale experiments shown in the previous 
figure, spanning the full duration of the infill process until the reservoir is completely filled with 
sediment. 
 
2.3. Mathematical modeling 
To model the effect of turbidity currents and the finite reservoir size on the pattern and rate of 
reservoir infill by the deltaic deposits, we developed an extension of our diffusion-based theory 
of deltaic progradation (Lai and Capart, 2007, 2009). Our earlier theory assumed a reservoir of 
infinite extent, leading to a deltaic profile characterized by unchecked self-similar growth. When 
the reservoir is finite, we found that self-similar growth continues to occur in the early stages of 
the sedimentation process, but rapidly gives way to another pattern in which the remaining 
reservoir accommodation space gradually shrinks to a point at the crest of the dam. This pattern 
is illustrated in the figures below.  The findings of the laboratory and theoretical study are 
currently being prepared for submission to a scientific journal. 
 12 
References 
Our recent publications related to the efforts described above include the following: 
Lai, S.Y.J., and H. Capart (2009) Reservoir infill by hyperpycnal deltas over bedrock. 
Geophysical Research Letters 36, art. L08402, 1-6. (SCI) 
Lai, S.Y.J., and H. Capart (2007) Two-diffusion description of hyperpycnal deltas. Journal of 
Geophysical Research 112, art. F03005, 1-20. 
Perng, A.T.H., and H. Capart (2008) Underwater sand bed erosion and internal jump formation 
by travelling plane jets. Journal of Fluid Mechanics 595, 1-43. 
Su, J.C.C., A.T.H. Perng, and H. Capart (2007) Underwater trench incision and turbid overspill 
due to moving point jets. Proceedings of XXXII Congress IAHR, Venice, Italy, July 2007. 
Lai, S.Y.J., and H. Capart (2007) Response of hyperpycnal deltas to a steady rise in base level. 
Proceedings, RCEM2007, Twente, The Netherlands,September 2007. 
 
sediment transport, and it is implied that S > Smin.
Alternatively, this relation can be interpreted as a two-term
approximation to a more complicated empirical or predictive
sediment transport law [Hsu and Capart, 2008]. We found in
earlier work [Lai and Capart, 2007] that equation (3) can be
applied to both the topset and foreset of hyperpycnal deltas
provided that different values D1, D2, for the diffusivity, and
Smin,1, Smin,2 for the minimum inclination are considered for
fluvial and hyperpycnal transport.
[5] For deltas over bedrock (Figure 1c), let s(1)(t), s(2)(t)
denote the positions of the bedrock-alluvial and river-lake
(or topset-foreset) transitions. Upon substituting equation (3)
in equation (1), we obtain the two diffusion equations
@z1
@t
 D1 @
2z1
@x2
¼ 0; sð1ÞðtÞ < x < sð2ÞðtÞ; ð4Þ
@z2
@t
 D2 @
2z2
@x2
¼ 0; sð2ÞðtÞ < x; ð5Þ
where D1 and D2 are the subaerial and subaqueous
diffusivities (D1 > D2), and z1(x, t) and z2(x, t) are the
topset and foreset profiles (Figure 1c). Like the single
moving boundaries treated by Voller et al. [2004] and
Capart et al. [2007], the two moving boundaries s(1)(t),
s(2)(t) migrate according to
sðbÞðtÞ ¼ lðbÞ ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃD1tp ; b ¼ 1; 2; ð6Þ
where l(1) and l(2) are dimensionless constants governing
the time-evolving positions of the delta boundaries.
Analytical solutions for the bed profiles za(x, t), a = 1, 2,
then take the self-similar form [for a derivation, see Capart
et al., 2007]
zaﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Dat
p ¼ Aa xﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Dat
p þ Baierfc x
2
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
Dat
p
 
ð7Þ
where the special function ierfc is the first integral of the
complementary error function. The coefficients A1, B1, for
the topset, A2,B2, for the foreset, and l
(1), l(2), for the moving
boundaries, are obtained from the internal and external
boundary conditions. These include, at the bedrock-alluvial
and river-lake transitions, the prescribed elevations
z1ðsð1ÞðtÞ; tÞ ¼ S0sð1ÞðtÞ;
z1ðsð2ÞðtÞ; tÞ ¼ z2ðsð2ÞðtÞ; tÞ ¼ 0; ð8Þ
as well as continuity of the sediment fluxes
j1ðsð1ÞðtÞ; tÞ ¼ I ;
j1ðsð2ÞðtÞ; tÞ ¼ j2ðsð2ÞðtÞ; tÞ: ð9Þ
where ja = Da(@za/@x  Smin,a), a = 1, 2. Two boundary
conditions must be applied at each transition because their
migration histories are part of the problem to be solved.
Figure 1. Deltas prograding over bedrock into narrow reservoirs. Wanda Reservoir, central Taiwan, upstream of Wushe
Dam (a) on October 21, 2006, and (b) on October 5, 2008 (photos by H. Capart). (c) Schematic long profile of a
hyperpycnal delta in a generic mountain reservoir [adapted from Morris and Fan, 1997; Lai and Capart, 2007].
L08402 LAI AND CAPART: HYPERPYCNAL DELTAS OVER BEDROCK L08402
2 of 6
(length = 1 m; width = 1 cm), constructed with transparent
parallel walls and a rough, rigid floor. Downstream, the
flume is fitted with weirs to control the lake waterline and
subaqueous density interface. Upstream, the river discharge
is supplied by a constant head tank, and the sediment influx
by a conveyor belt. For the river discharge, either freshwater
(r = 1.0 g ml1) or brine (r = 1.2 g ml1) are used to obtain
homopycnal or hyperpycnal inflows into the freshwater
lake. For the sediment, fine sand of median diameter d50 =
0.17 mm, coefficient of uniformity d60/d10 = 2.3, and angle
of repose 8 = 36 is chosen. Green fluorescent dye is added
to the brine to visualize underflows, and black ash is
sprinkled at repeated intervals to visualize the stratigraphy
of the deposits. Time-lapse photography is used to monitor
the evolution of the river and lake beds, with photos
acquired at intervals of 5 sec. Bed elevation measurements
are obtained by digitizing profiles from the timelapse
photographs and translating them to metric coordinates
using a calibrated transform.
[8] We present on Figure 2 four experiments designed to
document the effects of inflow density (homopycnal versus
hyperpycnal), inclination (moderate to steep), and sediment
supply (high to low) on the morphology of deltas over
bedrock. To gauge the influence of inflow density, experi-
ments A and B (Figures 2a and 2b) show deltaic morphol-
ogies resulting from homopycnal and hyperpycnal river
inflows, respectively, over bedrock floors of moderate
inclination (q = 10). Microscale experiments with homo-
pycnal deltas over bedrock were reported earlier [Muto,
2001], hence experiment A serves as a baseline case. To
examine the effect of inclination, experiment C is conducted
under the same hyperpycnal conditions as experiment B,
with the steepness of the bedrock floor increased twofold to
q = 20. Experiment D shows what happens under the same
conditions when the sediment supply is decreased by a
factor of 5, and the hyperpycnal current ponds into a
subaqueous pool at the downstream end of the flume. To
facilitate comparison, all tests are performed under the same
river discharge, held steady at volumetric flow rate per unit
width Q = 80.6 mm2 s1. For small scale experiments,
transport relations are expected to take the following power
law form [see, e.g., Swenson and Muto, 2007; Hsu and
Capart, 2008]
jðx; tÞ ¼ aQSb; ð11Þ
instead of the simpler equation (3), where a and b are
dimensionless empirical coefficients. To translate from
equation (11) to equation (3), we use a two term Taylor
expansion around a reference slope Sref. We set Sref = Seq for
fluvial transport and Sref =
1
2
(S0 + Seq) for hyperpycnal
transport, where Seq = (I/(aQ))
1/b is the slope that
equilibrates the sediment influx I. Different values of
coefficient a apply to fluvial and hyperpycnal transport, but
a common exponent b is used.
4. Experimental Results
[9] Depicted by the photographs of Figure 2 (left column)
are the mature deltaic deposits formed at late stages of the
four experiments, when the shallow fluvial and hyperpycnal
flows (from left to right) are still active. Experiment A
(Figure 2a), performed under homopycnal conditions, leads
to a classical Gilbert delta, with a topset of mild inclination, a
steep foreset inclined at the angle of repose (8 = 36), and
sharp slope breaks at the shoreline and foreset toe. Experi-
ment B (Figure 2b), by contrast, shows the influence of hyper-
pycnal conditions (ratio of river density to lake density =
1.2). Under the influence of the gravity underflow (thin green
layer), the foreset becomes more elongated, reduces its
maximum inclination (to well below the angle of repose),
and adopts a concave upwards curvature allowing the foreset
toe to connect smoothly with the lake bottom. Unlike the
subaqueous foresets, the subaerial topsets of experiments A
and B are similar to each other in shape and inclination. In
both cases, the topset terminates upstream at a well-defined
transition between exposed bedrock and alluvial cover,
which migrates headward as the delta grows.
[10] Experiment C (Figure 2c) provides further informa-
tion about the response of the bedrock-alluvial transition.
For this steeper inclination (q = 20), the hyperpycnal flow
drives a greater proportion of the river sediment load into
the lake. The delta foreset becomes highly elongated,
leaving only a short topset between the bedrock-alluvial
transition and the shoreline. Experiment D (Figure 2d),
finally, confirms that it is possible for hyperpycnal flows
over bedrock to drive the entire river sediment load into the
lake, provided that the sediment supply is sufficiently low.
Upon reducing the sediment supply by a factor of 5 (com-
pared to experiment C), the hyperpycnal underflow is able to
drive the entire river sediment flux through the shoreline,
making the subaerial delta disappear. A subaqueous delta
forms instead, prograding into the turbid pool. Despite their
different environments, the subaqueous delta of experiment
D is quite similar in morphology to the subaerial delta of
experiment A. Both feature short, straight foresets inclined at
the angle of repose, and long topsets of mild concave
upwards curvature. Where they differ is in their topset
inclination, much steeper in the subaqueous case D than in
the subaerial case A, and in their speed of accumulation,
much slower in case D due to the reduced influx. Cases C and
D underscore that, over the same bedrock inclination, it is
possible for lake deposits to exhibit very different deposi-
tional patterns. Dependent on the sediment influx (strong
versus weak), downstream (case C) or upstream tapering
(case D) of the underwater deposits is observed, flipping the
direction in which deposits become gradually thinner.
5. Comparison and Discussion
[11] Measured river and lake bed profiles are plotted in
Figure 2 (right column). A consequence of the theory is
that, for each experiment, delta profiles acquired at different
times should collapse together when plotted in normalized
coordinates x/
ﬃﬃﬃ
It
p
, z/
ﬃﬃﬃ
It
p
. This geometrical self-similarity is
verified to a very good approximation by the experimental
data (dots obtained at four different times t1 to t4 collapse
together). The delta morphology is thus independent of the
time of observation, and delta growth produces an internal
stratigraphy composed of nested profiles representing
homothetic replicas of each other. This explains, on
Figures 2a–2d, the self-similar stacking of trapped ash
layers in the experimental deposits. Because of self-
similarity, moreover, the sediment flux j at any location
L08402 LAI AND CAPART: HYPERPYCNAL DELTAS OVER BEDROCK L08402
4 of 6
Morris, G., and J. Fan (1997), Reservoir Sedimentation Handbook,
McGraw-Hill, New York.
Muto, T. (2001), Shoreline autoretreat substantiated in flume experiments,
J. Sediment. Res., 71, 246–254.
Swenson, J. B., and T. Muto (2007), Response of coastal plain rivers to
falling relative sea-level: Allogenic controls on the aggradational phase,
Sedimentology, 54, 207–221.
Toniolo, H., G. Parker, and V. Voller (2007), Role of ponded turbidity
currents in reservoir trap efficiency, J. Hydraul. Eng., 133, 579–595.
Voller, V. R., J. B. Swenson, and C. Paola (2004), An analytical solution for
a Stefan problem with variable latent heat, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, 47,
5387–5390.
Yu, W.-S., H.-Y. Lee, and S. M. Hsu (2000), Experimental study on delta
formation in a reservoir (in Chinese), J. Chin. Inst. Civ. Hydraul. Eng.,
12, 171–177.

H. Capart and S. Y. J. Lai, Department of Civil Engineering and
Hydrotech Research Institute, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617,
Taiwan. (hcapart@yahoo.com)
L08402 LAI AND CAPART: HYPERPYCNAL DELTAS OVER BEDROCK L08402
6 of 6
small (cosq  1), but does not need to be mild (Froude
number of the normal flow < 1), hence the flow can be
subcritical or supercritical. We approximate the sediment
transport rate j(x, t) in the river by the modified diffusive
flux
j x; tð Þ ¼ Dmax  @zw
@x
 Smin; 0
 
; ð3Þ
where D is the alluvial diffusivity (dependent on the water
discharge q), and Smin is a minimum inclination required for
sediment transport [Mitchell, 2006; Lai and Capart, 2007].
With S = @zw/@x, the equation is analogous to the
transport law j / qS proposed by Lane [1955], relating the
sediment transport rate to a product of the water discharge
and surface gradient. It differs from the classical laws of
Fourier and Fick for heat and species diffusion in that the
transport is one way only (in the direction of water flow),
suppressed in reaches of standing water (@zw/@x = 0)
regardless of the sediment bed inclination @zs/@x, and
subject to the threshold condition @zw/@x > Smin. A more
refined theory would need to allow excessively steep slopes
to relax to the angle of repose of the sediment material. In
the present work, we assume like Voller et al. [2006] that the
Figure 1. Tributary-dammed Lake Pepin, formed across the Mississippi River because of sediment
influx from the Chippewa River: (a) map showing local relief (digital elevation data from the Upper
Mississippi Basin Stakeholder Network, St. Mary’s University of Minnesota) and watercourse
(bathymetry from the USGS Upper Midwest Environmental Sciences Center) and (b) elevation plot
showing the influence of the Chippewa and Wisconsin rivers on the long profile of the Upper Mississippi
(source of the data, USGS). The marker at river mile 765 has latitude 442404900N and longitude
920605400W.
Figure 2. Self-similar alluvial responses to sediment
supply from a tributary: (a) tributary-induced cuspate
aggradation and (b) tributary-dammed lake, forming when
the tributary supply exceeds twice the original sediment
transport rate in the river (I > 2J0).
2 of 6
W11201 HSU AND CAPART: RAPID COMMUNICATION W11201
dependence of the deposit thickness on the tributary influx I
is nonlinear. A break of trend occurs at the onset of lake
formation (I = 2J0), beyond which aggradation is enhanced
at the tributary junction. When the influx exceeds this
threshold, a lake of rising level and increasing length
develops (Figure 2b). As in the case of cuspate aggradation,
the bed profile responds in geometrically self-similar fash-
ion to the steady tributary sediment influx, hence the lake
maintains a constant length-to-depth ratio during its growth.
Water continues to flow past the dam, and only sediment
transit is interrupted across the lake. The up-valley trans-
gression of the lake leaves a characteristic bathymetric
signature, with a lake bed that acquires a downstream-facing
slope of constant inclination. Unlike avalanching delta
foresets for which the slope is determined by the angle of
stability, here the lake bed inclination is set by the rate of
aggradation of the tributary dam. A faster aggradation yields
a more rapid lake transgression, hence a lake bed of milder
downstream-facing slope, possibly dropping well below the
angle of stability. Analogous shoreline transgressions were
earlier described for deltas responding to rising sea levels
[Muto and Steel, 1992; Parker and Muto, 2003].
3. Experiments
[9] To test the above predictions, we conducted small-
scale laboratory experiments in conditions approximating
the simplified assumptions of the theory. A long, narrow
channel (length 250 cm, width 1 cm) of adjustable slope is
provided with steady water inflow q from a constant head
tank. Dry sand (median diameter d50 = 0.32 mm, coefficient
of uniformity d60/d10 = 1.84) is pluviated into the channel
using upstream and midstream feeders representing respec-
tively the background river sediment flux J0 and the
tributary sediment influx I. The submerged angle of repose
of the sand is 8 = 36. Calibration runs with the tributary
influx I turned off and the bed brought to equilibrium grade
under steady upstream inflows of water and sand were first
performed to characterize the relation j(q, S) between water
discharge q, inclination S = @zs/@x = @zw/@x, and
sediment flux j. The resulting data (Figure 3a) are well
approximated by the power law
j ¼ kqaSb; ð11Þ
where k = 1.03 (mm2 s1)1a, a = 1.39, and b = 2.28 (root-
mean-square residual = 4 mm2 s1 for sediment fluxes in
the range 0 < j < 130 mm2 s1). Tributary experiments were
conducted for different values of water discharge and
tributary sediment influx. All experiments were started from
the same initial grade S0 = 0.11 obtained by adjusting the
upstream sand supply J0 to the corresponding water
discharge. At time t = 0, the tributary sand supply is turned
on at prescribed rate of influx I. The ensuing response of the
sand bed is observed through the transparent sidewall using
time-lapse photography. The digital images are transformed
to metric profiles zs(x, t) on the basis of a calibrated scale
factor, reference horizon z = 0, and lens distortion
correction, yielding an accuracy of 0.2 mm. A total of 27
runs were conducted at the three different water discharges
q1 = 280 mm
2 s1, q2 = 470 mm
2 s1, and q3 = 730 mm
2
s1 subject to various ratios of tributary sediment influx I to
background sediment flux J0, in the range 1 < I/J0 < 5. For
comparison with the theory, the power law of equation (11)
must be converted to the simplified form of equation (3).
This is done by cross calibrating coefficients D and Smin
against k, a and b (using least squares over range 0  S/S0
 2), yielding D/J0 = 30 and Smin/S0 = 0.7 and the piecewise
linear relation represented by a bold line in Figure 3a. For
field application, coefficients D and Smin could likewise be
cross calibrated against an available sediment transport
relation, either empirical (based on in situ measurements),
or predictive (based on the hydraulic and sedimentological
characteristics of the river). Once the two coefficients have
been determined, all other results can be calculated from the
theory, hence represent testable predictions.
4. Results and Discussion
[10] Figures 3b, 3c, and 4 compare the theoretical pre-
dictions with the experimental measurements. Normalized
Figure 3. Comparison of theory and experiment: (a) calibrated sediment transport relationship (thin
curve, power law; thick curve, approximate diffusive flux); (b) normalized lake length versus ratio of
tributary sediment supply I to undisturbed sediment transport rate J0, with lake formation predicted to
occur when I > 2J0; and (c) dependence of the normalized sediment deposit thickness at the tributary on
ratio I/J0. The thick curves in Figures 3b and 3c are the theoretical predictions, and symbols represent
experimental data for water discharges q1 = 283 mm
2 s1 (squares), q2 = 467 mm
2 s1 (diamonds), and
q3 = 733 mm
2 s1 (circles).
4 of 6
W11201 HSU AND CAPART: RAPID COMMUNICATION W11201
etry deepest immediately upstream of the Chippewa tribu-
tary dam.
5. Conclusions
[12] In this paper, we proposed a theory for the onset and
growth of tributary-dammed lakes. Using a diffusion de-
scription constrained by backwater effects, we were able to
identify the threshold beyond which tributary sediment
influx leads to the formation of a lake, and to obtain exact
solutions for the alluvial profiles below and above this
threshold. Predictions of the theory are in quantitative
agreement with the results of laboratory experiments, and
qualitatively match documented field profiles from tribu-
tary-dammed valleys. The proposed theory may help inter-
pret past and present lake formation episodes, and
demonstrates how even the simplest external perturbations
can elicit rich responses from alluvial rivers. In many ways,
however, the proposed theory represents a minimal model,
and extensions would be needed to account for grain size
effects [see, e.g., Rice and Church, 2001], tributary water
supply, angle-of-repose constraints, sediment accommoda-
tion space in the tributary valley, and possible bedrock
controls. These avenues are suggested for further work.
[13] Acknowledgments. This work was supported by the National
Science Council, Taiwan. It benefited from reviews and advice by Greg
Brooks, Su-Chin Chen, Edoardo Daly, Meng-Long Hsieh, Douglas
Jerolmack, Steven Y.-J. Lai, Tetsuji Muto, Fu-Chun Wu, and Der-Liang
Young.
References
Begin, Z. B., D. F. Meyer, and S. A. Schumm (1981), Development of
longitudinal profiles of alluvial channels in response to base level low-
ering, Earth Surf. Processes Landforms, 6, 49 – 68, doi:10.1002/
esp.3290060106.
Capart, H., M. Bellal, and D. L. Young (2007), Self-similar evolution of
semi-infinite alluvial channels with moving boundaries, J. Sediment.
Res., 77, 13–22, doi:10.2110/jsr.2007.009.
Carslaw, H. S., and J. C. Jaeger (1959), Conduction of Heat in Solids,
Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford, U. K.
Chen, S. C. (1999), Failure mechanism and disaster mitigation on landslide-
dammed lakes (in Chinese), J. Chin. Soil Water Conserv., 30, 299–311.
Costa, J. E., and R. L. Schuster (1988), The formation and failure of natural
dams, Geol. Soc. Am. Bull., 100, 1054 – 1068, doi:10.1130/0016-
7606(1988)100<1054:TFAFON>2.3.CO;2.
Daly, E., and A. Porporato (2005), Some self-similar solutions in river
morphodynamics, Water Resour. Res., 41, W12503, doi:10.1029/
2005WR004488.
Davis, W. M. (1933), The lakes of California, Calif. J. Mines, 29, 175–236.
Galay, V. J., D. B. Tutt, and R. Kellerhals (1983), The meandering distri-
butary channels of the upper Columbia River, in River Meandering,
edited by C. M. Elliott, pp. 113–125, Am. Soc. Civ. Eng., New York.
Humphrey, N. F., and S. K. Konrad (2000), River incision or diversion in
response to bedrock uplift, Geology, 28, 43–46, doi:10.1130/0091-
7613(2000)28<43:RIODIR>2.0.CO;2.
Hutchinson, G. E. (1957), A Treatise on Limnology, vol. 1, John Wiley,
New York.
Jain, S. C. (1981), River bed aggradation due to overloading, J. Hydraul.
Div. Am. Soc. Civ. Eng., 107, 120–124.
Lai, S. Y. J., and H. Capart (2007), Two-diffusion description of hyperpyc-
nal deltas, J. Geophys. Res., 112, F03005, doi:10.1029/2006JF000617.
Lane, E. W. (1955), The importance of fluvial morphology in hydraulic
engineering, Proc. Am. Soc. Civ. Eng., 81, 745-1–745-17.
Mitchell, N. C. (2006), Morphologies of knickpoints in submarine canyons,
Geol. Soc. Am. Bull., 118, 589–605, doi:10.1130/B25772.1.
Muto, T. (2001), Shoreline autoretreat substantiated in flume experiments,
J. Sediment. Res., 71, 246–254, doi:10.1306/091400710246.
Muto, T., and R. J. Steel (1992), Retreat of the front in a prograding
delta, Geology, 20, 967–970, doi:10.1130/0091-7613(1992)020<0967:
ROTFIA>2.3.CO;2.
Paola, C., and V. R. Voller (2005), A generalized Exner equation for sedi-
ment mass balance, J. Geophys. Res., 110, F04014, doi:10.1029/
2004JF000274.
Paola, C., P. L. Heller, and C. L. Angevine (1992), The large-scale dy-
namics of grain-size variation in alluvial basins: I. Theory, Basin Res., 4,
73–90.
Parker, G., and T. Muto (2003), 1D numerical model of delta response to
rising sea-level, in Proceedings of the Third IAHR Symposium on River,
Coastal and Estuarine Morphodynamics, edited by A. Sa´nchez-Arcilla
and A. Bateman, pp. 558–570, Int. Assoc. for Hydraul. Res., Madrid.
Rice, S. P., and M. Church (2001), Longitudinal profiles in simple alluvial
systems, Water Resour. Res. , 37(2), 417 – 426, doi:10.1029/
2000WR900266.
Schumm, S. A. (2005), River Variability and Complexity, Cambridge Univ.
Press, Cambridge, U. K.
Soni, J. P., R. J. Garde, and K. G. Ranga Raju (1980), Aggradation in
streams due to overloading, J. Hydraul. Div. Am. Soc. Civ. Eng., 106,
117–132.
Voller, V. R., J. B. Swenson, and C. Paola (2004), An analytical solution for
a Stefan problem with variable latent heat, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer, 47,
5387–5390, doi:10.1016/j.ijheatmasstransfer.2004.07.007.
Voller, V. R., J. B. Swenson, W. Kim, and C. Paola (2006), An enthalpy
method for moving boundary problems on the Earth’s surface, Int. J.
Numer. Methods Heat Fluid Flow, 16, 641 – 654, doi:10.1108/
09615530610669157.
Wright, H. E., Jr., K. Lease, and S. Johnson (1998), Glacial River Warren,
Lake Pepin, and the environmental history of southeastern Minnesota, in
Contributions to Quaternary Studies in Minnesota, Minn. Geol. Surv.
Rep. Invest., vol. 49, edited by C. J. Patterson and H. E. Wright Jr.,
pp. 131-140, Univ. of Minn., Saint Paul, Minn.
Zumberge, J. H. (1952), The Lakes of Minnesota, Their Origin and Classi-
fication, Univ. of Minn. Press, Minneapolis, Minn.

H. Capart and J. P. C. Hsu, Department of Civil Engineering, National
Taiwan University, Number 1, Section 4, Roosevelt Road, Taipei 10617,
Taiwan. (hcapart@yahoo.com)
6 of 6
W11201 HSU AND CAPART: RAPID COMMUNICATION W11201
2 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
U
U
U
(a)
(b)
(c)
Figure 1. Erosion of underwater sand beds by steadily advancing tools, moved along the sea
bottom using ships or remotely operated vehicles (ROVs): (a) suction dredging, in which sand
is mined from the bed; (b) water injection dredging (after Knox et al. 1994), in which jetting
is used to induce a turbid plume; (c) cable burial by jet trenching (based on information from
Fugro Engineers), allowing the sand bed to be scoured and backﬁlled in a single pass.
ROVs (remotely operated vehicles). The ‘product’, cable or pipeline, is ﬁrst simply laid
onto the sea bottom. The vehicle then uses two upright or oblique swords lowered on
both sides of the product to inject high-speed water into the sand bed. The jets scour
a temporary trench, travelling with the vehicle, which allows the cable or pipeline to
descend into the sea bed before being buried under the re-depositing sand further
downstream of the trencher. Similar tasks have also been carried out using the suction
hoppers of dredging ships (ﬁgure 1a), with the pumps operated in reverse to produce
jets instead of suction (van Melkebeek 2002).
Although extensive testing and operational experience has been accumulated for
jet trenching vehicles (see for instance Machin 2001), the ﬂow processes involved are
not yet well understood. Practical diﬃculties hindering such understanding include
operation in diﬃcult and turbid environments, as well as complicated patterns of
water and sand motions.
4 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
sublayered description in which the turbulent bottom current is assumed stratiﬁed into
sediment-laden and sediment-free sublayers. A generalization of the sharp interface
view adopted by Fraccarollo & Capart (2002) will then be used to treat erosion
and entrainment across the interfaces bounding these sublayers. Secondly, the steep
trenching fronts obtained near the point of impingement will motivate the adoption
of curvilinear coordinates. In similar contexts, such curvilinear coordinates have been
used in two recent works to describe turbulent entrainment by curved jets (Jirka 2006)
and basal erosion by shallow subaerial landslides (Chen, Crosta & Lee 2006). Finally,
we will transform the governing equations to moving coordinates in order to describe
the steady ﬂows observed after long travel times in a frame of reference attached to
the moving jets.
The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 describes the laboratory experiments
performed to characterize jet trenching ﬂows. In § 3, we derive our proposed sublayered
shallow-ﬂow equations. Section 4 is devoted to the construction of special travelling-
wave solutions to these equations. The ﬂow and solution details that must be addressed
in order to compute long proﬁles of the bed and current are treated in § 5. Comparisons
between computations and measurements are presented in § 6. Finally, conclusions
are proposed in § 7.
2. Laboratory experiments
2.1. Experimental apparatus
To characterize the sand-bed response to the action of moving jets, small-scale
experiments were performed at the Hydrotech Research Institute of National
Taiwan University. The laboratory apparatus and procedure are shown in ﬁgure 2.
Experiments take place in a rectangular tank having the following dimensions:
length=180 cm; height= 50 cm; inner width B =12.6 cm. To obtain an unobstructed
view, each sidewall is formed of a single glass panel of area 180 cm× 50 cm, with
a thickness of 12mm chosen to minimize deformation. The bottom of the tank is
composed of an 18 cm thick layer of sand, submerged under a 29 cm deep clear-water
ambient. Before each experiment, a scraping plate is used to give the sand surface a
ﬂat horizontal proﬁle (dashed line in ﬁgure 2a). The level of the free surface of the
water is kept constant during jetting by way of a siphon overﬂow. Photographs of
the set-up are provided in Perng (2006).
The jetting device used to produce a plane jet is formed of three cylindrical jetting
heads of width=4.1 cm, placed side by side. Made of machined and welded copper,
each head is supplied with high-pressure water (through a ﬂexible polyurethane tube),
and discharges the water at high speeds into the tank through a row of 19 nozzles
of internal radius R=0.25 mm. The resulting individual round turbulent jets can be
expected to merge into a single uniform plane jet within distances of around 5 to
10 times the nozzle separation distance of 2mm (Jirka 2006). The speciﬁc momentum
ﬂux per unit width of the corresponding equivalent plane jet is given by
Σ =hv2 =
Q2
BNπR2
, (1)
where N =3× 19=57 is the number of nozzles, R their radius, B the channel width,
and Q the total discharge fed to the jetting heads. The choice of three aligned but
separate jetting heads is made to attain a more uniform spanwise distribution of
jetting strength. In earlier tests, we found that we could not achieve the desired degree
of uniformity with a single head spanning the entire tank width. The high-pressure
6 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
7
(a) (b)
6
5
S
et
tl
in
g 
ra
te
 w
 (
cm
 s
–1
)
4
3
2
1
0
0 0.1
Sediment concentration n [–]
0.2 0.3
z(1)
z(0)
w
Figure 3. Sedimentation column tests: (a) measured settling rates w(n) (ﬁlled circles) for
various sediment concentrations n, compared with the fall speed W =w(0) of individual sand
grains (open symbol, mean of 20 measurements); (b) deﬁnition sketch. Tests performed in
water near 30 ◦C.
standoﬀ distance of the nozzles above the undisturbed bed was set to Z=5mm.
Three jetting discharges Q=90, 107 and 122ml s−1 were examined. This corresponds
to water velocities at the nozzles of 8.0, 9.6 and 10.9m s−1, respectively, and to
jetting strengths Σ1 = 5.8 l s
−2, Σ2 = 8.1 l s−2, and Σ3 = 10.6 l s−2. For each discharge,
tests were performed at various speeds of advance U . Further tests conducted with
another standoﬀ distance Z=10mm are described in Perng (2006).
2.2. Sand properties
The sand material used for the tests is a medium quartz sand of density
ρS =2670 kgm
−3, median diameter d50 = 0.33mm, and coeﬃcient of uniformity
d60/d10 = 2.0. The volumetric sand concentration in the static sedimented bed is
estimated to be in the range 0.58<n0 < 0.62. The settling of sand grains is known
to depend on the concentration of the suspension (Richardson & Zaki 1954; van
Rijn 1984). Measurements of fall speed and settling rates were therefore conducted
at various concentrations (ﬁgure 3). Fall speeds are measured by timing the fall
of individual sand grains between two horizontal lines, whereas settling rates are
measured using sedimentation column experiments (ﬁgure 3b). For each concentration
n, a known volume of sand is thoroughly mixed with water in a closed column, then
left to settle under the action of gravity. Assuming that both the bed surface and
turbid interface behave like kinematic shocks (see Ungarish 1993), their elevations z(0)
and z(1) will change at rates governed by
dz(0)
dt
=
nw
n0 − n, (2)
dz(1)
dt
=−w, (3)
where w=w(n) is the settling rate at the given concentration. The settling process
leaves both the suspended sediment concentration n and the total sediment volume
n0z
(0) + nh1 unchanged. In the actual sedimentation column tests, only the bed
interface z(0) is suﬃciently sharp to be identiﬁed precisely. We therefore estimate
the settling rate w(n) from the formula
w(n)=
n0 − n
n
dz(0)
dt
, (4)
8 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
(a)
(c)
(b)
(d )
Figure 5. Qualitatively diﬀerent ﬂow patterns observed when varying the speed of advance
of the plane jet relative to the sediment bed: (a) ﬁxed jet; (b) very slowly moving jet; (c) slowly
moving jet; (d) rapidly moving jet. The direction of the jet-induced current is from left to right
in all cases, and the jetting tool translates from right to left in (b)–(d).
of sediment mass (neglecting variations in sedimented sand concentration before and
after trenching), the scour hole travelling to the left leaves behind a sand heap in
the start-up region, with equivalent positive and negative volumes on either side of
the initial horizontal bed proﬁle. The experiment ends as the jetting tool reaches the
opposite end of the tank, when both the carriage and pump are stopped.
The diﬀerent ﬂow patterns produced when varying the speed of advance of the
jetting tool relative to the sand bed are shown in ﬁgure 5. Our discussion here is
qualitative, but a phase diagram will be presented in § 6.3 to delineate these various
regimes in a more quantitative manner. To provide a point of reference, the ﬂow
observed when the jetting tool is held stationary is ﬁrst presented in ﬁgure 5(a). In
that case, sand eroded from the bed forms two triangular heaps on both sides of a
stationary scour hole, attaining a steady shape in less than 1min. Within this leveed
scour hole, a mixture of sand and water circulates counterclockwise around a spanwise
vortical axis. Clear water injected at high speed by the jetting head churns around then
discharges to the ambient by detraining at low speed across a boiling turbid interface
separating the turbulent suspension below from the clear water above. The observed
pattern is similar to that documented by Rajaratnam (1981) in his early stationary
plane-jet experiments. Unlike the threshold-of-motion conditions considered by Hogg
et al. (1997) and Gioia & Bombardelli (2005), here the bottom of the scour hole
attains a dynamic equilibrium in which turbulent entrainment of sand from the bed
is balanced by gravitational settling of sand grains out of suspension.
10 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
(2005), probably the best that could be expected from a simpliﬁed theory would be to
obtain basic scaling relations between the jetting strength and the dimensions of the
scour hole, to be compared with empirical scaling relations such as those obtained
by Rajaratnam (1981). Likewise, the complicated ﬂow pattern of ﬁgure 5(b), where
both breaching and ﬂow separation are observed, appears to lie beyond the reach
of a simple theory. The situation is more favourable, however, for the conditions
of ﬁgures 5(c) and 5(d), where the ﬂow appears suﬃciently well-behaved to permit
a hydraulic theory of the interaction between jet, ambient and sediment. In what
follows, we restrict our attention to these two regimes, which also correspond to the
conditions of practical interest in jet trenching applications.
2.4. Proﬁle measurements
As shown in ﬁgure 6(a), time-lapse photographs like those shown in ﬁgure 4 are used
to extract longitudinal ﬂow proﬁles. The photographs are taken using a low-distortion
wide-angle lens, capturing the entire tank length, and oriented with the image plane
parallel to the tank walls. Image acquisition is performed at the rate of one image
per second. To obtain quantitative measurements, proﬁles are extracted from these
images using manual mouse clicks, then converted to physical coordinates using a
calibrated scale factor and rotation adjustment. Coordinates in the travelling frame
of reference are obtained by measuring distances with respect to a moving origin
chosen as the position of the nozzle closest to the sidewall, projected vertically down
onto the initial sediment bed proﬁle.
As illustrated in ﬁgure 6(a), two proﬁles are extracted from each image. The ﬁrst is
the bed proﬁle (ﬁlled circles), separating the motionless sand deposit below from the
ﬂowing current above. As for the settling column tests, this boundary is rather sharp
and its visual identiﬁcation does not suﬀer from much ambiguity. The second proﬁle
extracted (open circles) is an upper boundary of the zone occupied by suspended
sediment. As seen in ﬁgures 4 and 6(a), this transition between sediment-laden and
sediment-free regions is reasonably sharp in some places, but rather diﬀuse in others,
leaving ample room for the subjectivity of the analyst. This second proﬁle should
therefore be taken as indicative only.
To gauge the rate of convergence of the trench proﬁle towards a steady shape in
the travelling frame of reference, the bed proﬁles corresponding to the time-lapse
images of ﬁgure 4 are plotted together in ﬁgure 6(b). For clarity, the proﬁles are
distorted vertically by a factor of 2, and plotted in the moving coordinates. They
are observed to converge rather rapidly towards a steady-state limit, the more so for
positions located closer to the jetting tool. Convergence is slowest for the far end of
the trench, where bed levels exceed the initial bed elevation as a result of the start-up
heap, which requires a signiﬁcant travel distance to be left behind. With the exception
of the distal tail, where proﬁles may not be fully converged, proﬁles captured near
the end of a run are thus checked to approximate an asymptotic steady shape, and
will be used in § 6 for quantitative comparisons with steady calculations.
2.5. Simple model and characteristic parameters
Before developing a more complete theory, it is useful to sketch a simple model
which explains how moving jets lead to the formation of a steady scour proﬁle in a
travelling frame of reference. Let z(0), h and u denote, respectively, the bed height,
current thickness and longitudinal current speed along the curved proﬁle of a shallow
12 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
speed of advance U from right to left), the proﬁle z(0)(x, t) reduces to z(0)(xˆ) where
xˆ = x + Ut. (6)
It follows that
∂z(0)
∂t
=
dz(0)
dxˆ
∂xˆ
∂t
=U
dz(0)
dxˆ
=−Eu + DW, (7)
which equates the ﬂux of sand across the sloping bed surface to the rate of erosion
and deposition by the jet-induced current. In ﬁgure 6(a), the thickness of the current
is observed to vary roughly linearly with distance from the jetting head, i.e. h≈C xˆ
where C ≈ 1/10. If we assume that the momentum ﬂux of the current Σ =hu2 is
approximately conserved as the current entrains bed material and ambient water,
then u(xˆ)≈√Σ/h(xˆ), and therefore
U
dz(0)
dxˆ
=−E
√
Σ
C xˆ
+ DW, (8)
which constitutes an idealized model of the trench response. The erosion rate is
strongest near the jetting head and decays with distance, whereas the settling rate
does not vary as long as suspended sand is available for deposition. The trench
consequently deepens as long as erosion exceeds deposition, but rises back towards
the undisturbed seabed level when settling starts to predominate. Neglecting the
standoﬀ distance between the jetting device and the sediment bed, this simple ODE
can be solved immediately over the interval 0  xˆ  L to yield
z(0)
H
=−4
√
xˆ
L
(
1 −
√
xˆ
L
)
, (9)
where
H =
E2
CD
Σ
UW
, L=
4E2
CD2
Σ
W 2
(10)
are, respectively, the maximum depth and the length of the trench. The dimensionless
proﬁle obtained in this way is plotted in ﬁgure 6(c). The trench shape is asymmetric,
with the point of maximum scour located at xˆ/L=1/4, in qualitative agreement with
the observed proﬁle of ﬁgure 6(a). Approximate quantitative agreement for the trench
depth and length for this and similar runs can be obtained by setting D=0.6 and
E=0.035.
The above simple model and approximate coeﬃcient values can be used to provide
rough estimates of various characteristic parameters. The aspect ratio of the trench
is for instance
H
L
=
D
4
W
U
≈ 0.15W
U
, (11)
suggesting that trenches become reasonably shallow once the speed of advance U
exceeds the fall velocity W . At the location of deepest scour, furthermore, the current
velocity u and friction velocity u∗ are given by
u
(
1
4
L
)
=
D
E
W, u∗
(
1
4
L
)
=
√
f u
(
1
4
L
)
, (12)
where f ≈ 0.05 is a bed friction factor (discussed further below). The corresponding
ratio of friction velocity to fall velocity is then
u∗
W
=
D
√
f
E
≈ 4. (13)
14 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
z
x
s
h 1
h 2
z(1)
e (0)
z(2)
z(0)
ρ0
τ
0
(0)
τ
1
(0)
τ
2
(2)
ι1
(1)
ι1
(0)
β
ρ2
ρ1
ρ
∞
ν
ω
ν
–e (2)
–e (1)
p
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Figure 7. Flow idealization: (a) jet-induced turbulent current, assumed attached to the curved
bed proﬁle; (b) suspended sand sublayer embedded within the turbulent current; (c) control
volume with longitudinal ﬂuxes and interfacial transfers; (d) mass drift and shear stress
functions.
as suspended load, with eroded sand grains eventually falling back to the bed by
gravitational settling.
To model the above processes, a sublayered shallow-ﬂow description is adopted.
Because the bed proﬁle may adopt a steep slope near the jet impingement, boundary-
ﬁtted coordinates are used. The curvilinear coordinate s denotes arclength along the
bed. The bed proﬁle (x(0), z(0)) can then be integrated from
∂x(0)
∂s
= cosβ,
∂z(0)
∂s
=−sinβ, (14)
where β is the local bed inclination below the horizontal. It is assumed that β is
a slowly varying function of time and space, which can be considered constant on
the scale of the adaptation time and length of the shallow current. Measured normal
to the bed, the depth h of the ﬂowing layer is considered small compared to the
radius of curvature  of the bed proﬁle, i.e. h . The turbulent layer is further
assumed to be sharply stratiﬁed into two distinct sublayers having depths h1 and
h2, where h1 + h2 =h. The lower sublayer of depth h1 is composed of a turbid
mixture of turbulent water and suspended sand. The upper sublayer, on the other
hand, features turbulent water taken to be entirely sediment-free. These two sublayers
are distinguished in order to let turbulent water detrain from the turbid layer. As
suggested by the experimental photographs of ﬁgures 4 and 5, the overall jet-induced
turbulent layer of depth h can be expected to expand monotonously owing to mixing
with the ambient, yet the thickness of its internal turbid layer h1 will eventually
decrease owing to the settling of sand grains. In addition to the bed proﬁle (x(0), z(0)),
two other interfaces are therefore of interest: turbid interface (x(1), z(1)) marks the limit
between the sediment-laden and clear-water sublayers, and outer interface (x(2), z(2))
16 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
respectively. Transfers are deﬁned positive when volume is transferred from a lower
layer to an upper layer. Conversely, transfers take negative values when volume
goes from an upper layer to a lower layer, as expected for instance for turbulent
entrainment from the outer ambient into the ﬂowing current across interface z(2).
Because their mass densities remain constant, equations for the mass balance of the
bed and sediment-free sublayers can be obtained simply by multiplying (21) and (23)
by the corresponding densities ρ0 and ρ2. In the turbid layer, however, the sediment
concentration and associated sublayer density can evolve. An additional equation for
mass balance is thus required and can be written
∂
∂t
(ρ1h1) +
∂
∂s
(ρ1h1v)= i
(0) − i(1), (24)
where the terms i(a), a=0, 1, denote mass transfers across the corresponding interfaces.
Again, mass transfers are deﬁned positive when going up from a lower to an upper
layer or sublayer. Two other useful equations can be obtained by linear combination of
equations (21)–(24). The ﬁrst is a balance equation for the overall mass m= ρ1h1+ρ2h2
of the ﬂowing layer (per unit bed surface):
∂m
∂t
+
∂
∂s
(mv)= i(0) − i(2), (25)
where the mass ﬂux i(2) across the outer interface is given by i(2) = ρ2e
(2). The second
is a conservation equation for the total sediment mass
∂
∂t
{(ρ0 − ρ∞)z(0) cosβ + (ρ1 − ρ∞)h1} + ∂
∂s
{(ρ1 − ρ∞)h1v} = 0, (26)
where the ﬁrst term denotes the local rate of change of the sediment mass contained
in both the bed and turbid sublayer, and the second term is the divergence of the
turbid ﬂux. In this equation, there are no non-conservative products on the left-hand
side, and no source or sink terms on the right-hand side. It is the only one of the
governing equations that can be cast in such a pure conservation form.
Because the two turbulent sublayers are assumed to share the same velocity v, a
single momentum equation is needed, with only along-bed momentum considered.
The corresponding balance equation is obtained for a control volume enclosing both
sublayers jointly (ﬁgure 7c). Neglecting non-hydrostatic eﬀects, momentum balance
in the normal-to-bed direction reduces to an expression for excess pressure (relative
to a sediment-free hydrostatic water column)
p(y)=
{
(ρ1 − ρ∞)g cosβ(h1 − y), 0  y  h1,
0, h1 <y,
(27)
where y is a local normal-to-bed coordinate, p(y) is the local excess pressure, and g
is the acceleration due to gravity. Including the thrust from these excess pressures,
momentum balance in the along-bed direction s can be written
∂
∂t
(mv) +
∂
∂s
{
mv2 + 1
2
(ρ1 − ρ∞)g cosβ h21
}− (ρ1 − ρ∞)h1g sinβ = j (0) − j (2). (28)
The terms on the left-hand side of this equation represent momentum change and
ﬂux, pressure thrust, and the along-bed component of the submerged weight. On the
right-hand side, terms j (0) and j (2) represent momentum transfers across the lower and
upper boundaries separating the turbulent current from its underlying sediment bed
and outer ambient. Upwards transfers are again deﬁned positive. Equations (21)–(28)
18 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
For interface (x(1), z(1)) separating the turbid and clear-water sublayers, we have
i(1) = ρ1e
(1) + ι(1)1 = ρ2e
(1), (33)
where mass drift is absent on the right-hand side because of the assumption that the
top sublayer is entirely sediment-free. Because the two sublayers are assumed to share
the same velocity v, no relation for the momentum ﬂux j (1) is required. Finally, for
interface (x(2), z(2)) separating the turbulent layer and outer ambient, compatibility of
the momentum ﬂux requires
j (2) = vi(2) − τ (2)2 = 0, (34)
where i(2) = ρ2e
(2) = ρ∞e(2) and where τ (2)2 is the turbulent shear stress applied below
the interface. There is no mass drift on either side because both the upper sublayer
and outer ambient are composed of water alone. Furthermore, the right-hand side of
(34) is zero because the outer ambient is assumed to be devoid of both current and
turbulence. The mass drift and shear-stress functions discussed above are illustrated
in ﬁgure 7(d).
The balance equations and interface relations can be combined to obtain two
additional equations that will be useful for the calculations below. The ﬁrst is an
evolution equation for the mass density of the turbid sublayer
∂ρ1
∂t
+ v
∂ρ1
∂s
=
ι
(0)
1 − ι(1)1
h1
, (35)
which takes the form of an advection-source equation, where the source function
is associated with mass drifts at the top and bottom of the sublayer. The second
equation is an equation of motion for the turbulent layer:
∂v
∂t
+ v
∂v
∂s
+
(ρ1 − ρ∞)gh1
m
∂z(1)
∂s
+
1
2
g cosβ h21
m
∂ρ1
∂s
=
−τ (0)1 + τ (2)2
m
, (36)
where the right-hand-side sink term involves two shear stresses: the free-shear
turbulent shear stress τ (2)2 acting along the inner side of the upper boundary of
the turbulent current, and the wall shear stress applied along the upper side of the
erodible bottom τ (0)1 (see ﬁgure 7d).
3.4. Mass drift and shear stress functions
Up to this point, the balance equations (21)–(28) and compatibility relations (31)–
(34) are direct consequences of our basic assumptions, combined with conservation
principles. To complete the description, however, it is necessary to provide semi-
empirical laws for the turbulent mass drift and shear stress functions. For the mass
drift functions, we adapt the classical sediment suspension theory of Rouse (1937)
and write
ι
(0)
1 = ξ
√
k(ρ0 − ρ1) − (ρ1 − ρ∞)ω cosβ, (37)
ι
(1)
1 = ξ
√
k(ρ1 − ρ2) − (ρ1 − ρ∞)ω cosβ, (38)
where each drift function is expressed as the sum of an upwards turbulent diﬀusive
ﬂux and a downwards gravitational settling ﬂux. The turbulent diﬀusive ﬂuxes are
assumed proportional to the square root of the speciﬁc turbulent kinetic energy k (per
unit mass), multiplied by the density diﬀerence experienced across the corresponding
interface. The non-dimensional proportionality constant ξ represents a ratio of eddy
length l to shear-layer thickness δy, both assumed to scale with the depth h of the
20 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
of an additional balance law for the evolution of the speciﬁc kinetic energy k of the tur-
bulent velocity ﬂuctuations, which intervenes in the three functions (37), (38) and (40).
3.5. Balance of mechanical energy
To close the description, energy balance must be invoked. The total mechanical energy
of the system is composed of three diﬀerent contributions: (i) the potential energy
of the bed, current, and ambient system; (ii) the kinetic energy of the mean ﬂow;
(iii) the kinetic energy of the turbulent velocity ﬂuctuations. For the latter, we do not
distinguish between the solid and ﬂuid phase, and consider the joint kinetic energy
of the mixture. Approaches resolving the two phases separately have been proposed
by Hsu, Jenkins & Liu (2003) and Ten Cate et al. (2004), but exceed the level of
detail sought in the present work. Accordingly, the total energy ﬂux across a vertical
transect is due to advection of the diﬀerent energy components complemented by the
work of the excess pressure forces. The resulting balance equation is
∂
∂t
{
1
2
(ρ0 − ρ∞)gz(0)2 cosβ + (ρ1 − ρ∞)gh1(z(0) + 12h1 cosβ)+ 12mv2 + mk}
+
∂
∂s
{[
(ρ1 − ρ∞)gh1(z(0) + 12h1 cosβ)+ 12mv2 +mk+ 12(ρ1 − ρ∞)g cosβ h21]v}=−γ,
(42)
where the ﬁrst term on the left-hand side is the time rate of change of the total
mechanical energy (sum of potential energy, mean ﬂow kinetic energy, and kinetic
energy of the turbulent ﬂuctuations, per unit bed surface), and the second term on the
left-hand side is the divergence of the energy ﬂux. Note that the potential energy is
measured with respect to a ground state in which the settled sea bed rises to elevation
z(0) = 0 below a sediment-free water ambient. The symbol γ on the right-hand side
of (42) is the energy dissipation function. Assuming an isothermal system, the second
law of thermodynamics requires that this dissipation function be everywhere positive,
i.e. γ  0 (see e.g. Abbott 1979).
In order to obtain a balance equation for the kinetic energy of the ﬂuctuations
alone, we can form the quasi-linear combination
(equation (42))− 1
2
v2 × (25)−mv × (36)−{(ρ0 − ρ∞)gz(0) + (ρ1 − ρ∞)gh1/ cosβ}× (21)
−{ 1
2
(ρ1 − ρ∞)g cosβ h1 − ρ∞g(z(0) + 12 cosβ h1)}× (22)− g(z(0) + 12h1 cosβ)× (24).
(43)
After repeated application of the chain rule, a considerable amount of algebra,
and right-hand-side substitutions based on the compatibility relations (31)–(34), the
resulting equation simpliﬁes to
∂
∂t
(mk) +
∂
∂s
(mkv)= 1
2
(
τ
(0)
0 + τ
(0)
1
)
v + 1
2
τ
(2)
2 (−v) − 12g cosβ h1
(
ι
(0)
1 + ι
(1)
1
)− γ, (44)
which is one of the key results of the overall derivation. This equation is a balance law
for the turbulence intensity k, where we recognize on the right-hand side the following
source and sink terms. The ﬁrst two terms are production terms associated with the
work of the mean ﬂow against the interfacial shear stresses τ (a)b , and correspond to
a loss of kinetic energy by the mean ﬂow. The third term is a sink term associated
with the work of the turbulent ﬂuctuations against gravity, and corresponds to a gain
of potential energy induced by the upwards mass drifts ι(a)b . Finally, the last term
is the energy dissipation function, inherited from the overall balance of mechanical
22 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
U
Z
xˆI xˆ xˆJ xˆ xˆC xˆE xˆ0
sˆ
2δ
α + δ
ν
ν′
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 8. Flow details: (a) jet expansion before and after bed impingement; (b) internal
hydraulic jump; (c) detrainment and settling pool.
4. Travelling-wave solutions
4.1. Equations in moving coordinates
We now consider the case of a plane jet travelling along an initially horizontal
sea bed. Approximating a steadily advancing injection dredge or jet trencher (see
ﬁgure 1b, c), the jetting device is assumed to move at constant speed U to the left.
To describe the resulting water ﬂow and sand bed response, it is then convenient to
postulate an observer moving with the jetting device at the same leftward speed U .
The corresponding change of independent variables (x, t) ↔ (xˆ, tˆ) is given by
xˆ = x + Ut, tˆ = t, (50)
where xˆ denotes horizontal distance from the origin of the travelling jet (ﬁgure 8a).
The associated curvilinear coordinate sˆ is such that
dxˆ
dsˆ
=
dx
ds
= cosβ. (51)
Using the chain rule, it follows that the time and spatial derivatives in balance
equations (21)–(28) transform to
∂·
∂t
=
∂·
∂tˆ
+
U
cosβ
∂·
∂sˆ
,
∂·
∂s
=
∂·
∂sˆ
. (52)
In the moving frame of reference, furthermore, the bed and ambient acquire apparent
velocities uˆ0 = uˆ∞ =U , and the apparent velocity of the turbulent current becomes
vˆ= v + U/ cosβ. (53)
In terms of moving coordinates (sˆ, tˆ), transformed governing equations can be written
∂z(0)
∂tˆ
+
U
cosβ
∂z(0)
∂sˆ
= σ0, (54)
∂h1
∂tˆ
+ vˆ
∂h1
∂sˆ
+ h1
∂v
∂sˆ
= σ1, (55)
∂h2
∂tˆ
+ vˆ
∂h2
∂sˆ
+ h2
∂v
∂sˆ
= σ2, (56)
∂ρ1
∂tˆ
+ vˆ
∂ρ1
∂sˆ
= σρ, (57)
∂k
∂tˆ
+ vˆ
∂k
∂sˆ
= σk, (58)
24 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
The ﬁrst three eigenvalues λ0, λρ and λk are associated with (54), (57) and (58), which
are already in characteristic form and are decoupled from the others. Eigenvalue λ∗
is associated with advection of the depth ratio h1/(h1 + h2) at the shared apparent
velocity vˆ of the two sublayers. Finally, λ− and λ+ are the speeds of the left and right
internal gravity waves. Although there are at least three repeated eigenvalues, the
system is endowed with a complete basis of six independent eigenvectors provided
that (ρ1 −ρ∞)h1 is non-zero (i.e. provided that suspended sand is present). The system
is then hyperbolic. If the bottom current is entirely free of suspended sediment, on
the other hand, eigenvalues λ− and λ+ and their eigenvectors collapse together, and
the eigenvector basis becomes deﬁcient.
As illustrated in ﬁgure 8, the jet-induced current will be assumed to ﬂow from left
to right, hence in what follows we restrict our attention to cases in which both U > 0
and vˆ > 0. Under these restrictions, the Jacobian matrix J will be regular everywhere
except at locations where
λ− = vˆ − c=0, (68)
causing the determinant to be equal to zero and the matrix to become singular. This
will occur for the following critical value of the local Froude number
Fˆ r =
vˆ
c
=
v + U/ cosβ√{(ρ1 − ρ∞) cosβ gh21}/m =1. (69)
The above is a generalized deﬁnition of the internal Froude number, modiﬁed
to account for the moving frame of reference, the sublayered structure, and the
ﬂow inclination. Using this revised deﬁnition, however, the Froude number can be
interpreted as in standard hydraulics to precisely identify distinct regimes of ﬂow.
Where Fˆ r > 1, the ﬂow is supercritical, and all wave speeds of the system are oriented
to the right, i.e. λa > 0 for a=0, ρ, k, ∗,−,+. Where Fˆ r =1, the ﬂow is critical, with a
stationary wave speed λ− =0, and a singular Jacobian matrix. Where Fˆ r < 1, ﬁnally,
the ﬂow is subcritical, with ﬁve wave speeds oriented to the right, i.e. λa > 0 for
a=0, ρ, k, ∗,+ and one wave speed oriented to the left, λ− < 0.
4.3. Longitudinal ﬂow structure
We now further restrict our attention to ﬂows which have attained steady state in
the moving frame of reference. The resulting solutions are known as travelling-wave
solutions (see e.g. Hydon 2000). As discussed in § 1, such solutions are of great
practical interest because dredging and jet trenching tools often operate continuously
over great distances, allowing the ﬂow pattern that they induce to converge to steady
state in a frame of reference attached to the jetting device. Such solutions are obtained
by setting the time derivatives ∂/∂tˆ to zero in (54)–(59). In matrix form, the reduced
system of equation can be written
J
dV
dsˆ
= S, (70)
which represents a coupled system of 6 ordinary diﬀerential equations. Before
integrating (70), we must ﬁrst clarify the appropriate boundary conditions and
consider the possible occurrence of critical sections where the matrix J will be
singular.
For a horizontal sea bed, we anticipate that the jet-induced sediment motion will
only take place over a ﬁnite distance behind the jetting device. Flowing to the right,
the jet-induced current will dissipate energy until it is no longer able to sustain a
sediment suspension. Consider the consequences of conservation equation (61), which
26 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
5. Flow and solution details
5.1. Jet expansion before impingement
We examine ﬁrst the development of the pure-water plane jet, before impingement
onto the sand bed. A highly concentrated point-like source of momentum is
considered, located at horizontal position xˆ =0 and elevation Z above the unperturbed
sea bed (ﬁgure 8a). This standoﬀ elevation is taken to remain constant as the jetting
device translates to the left. The jet is oriented at an angle α below the horizontal,
where 0<α< 90◦. The jet-induced water speed is assumed to be much larger than
the travelling speed, v U , and the inﬂuence of the latter is neglected at this stage
(i.e. we approximate vˆ ≈ v). Before impingement, the problem considered is thus the
expansion of a neutrally buoyant turbulent jet in a quiescent ambient. This is a
classical problem of turbulence research, which need not be solved anew, but it is
useful to treat it using the equations derived above in order to clarify their meaning
and consequences. Measuring distance using curvilinear coordinate sˆ, deﬁned again
along the lower interface of the expanding jet, we can write equations
d
dsˆ
(hv)= e(0) − e(2), (73)
d
dsˆ
(ρ2hv
2)= 0, (74)
d
dsˆ
(ρ2hkv)=
1
2
τ
(0)
2 v +
1
2
τ
(2)
2 (−v) − ρ2hε. (75)
These three equations describe balance of volume, momentum and turbulence
intensity, specialized to the case of a pure water jet in contact with a quiescent
water ambient along both its upper and lower boundaries. They constitute reduced
versions of (23), (28) and (44), with h1 = 0 and h=h2. The interface relations and
semi-empirical functions described above can also be adapted to express
e(0) =−e(2) = ξ√k, τ (0)2 =−τ (2)2 = ρ∞ξ
√
kv, ε=χk3/2/h. (76)
Since ρ2 = ρ∞ = ρW stays constant during the jet expansion, the equations reduce to
d
dsˆ
(hv) = 2ξ
√
k, (77)
d
dsˆ
(hv2) = 0, (78)
d
dsˆ
(hkv) = ξ
√
kv2 − χk3/2. (79)
Using (78), we can express h=Σ/v2 where Σ =hv2 denotes the constant speciﬁc
momentum ﬂux of the jet. We now seek a similarity solution to (77)–(79) using the
ansatz
√
k=Av, where A is a dimensionless constant to be determined. It can then
be checked that the explicit solutions
h(sˆ)= 4ξ A sˆ, v(sˆ)=
√
Σ/h(sˆ),
√
k(sˆ)=Av(sˆ), (80)
satisfy (77)–(79) provided that constant A take the value A=
√
ξ/(χ − 2ξ ). In
accordance with a wealth of experimental data for plane turbulent jets, the result is
a jet of linearly increasing thickness h(sˆ)= 2 tan δ sˆ, where the wedge semi-angle δ is
28 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
and the volume and mass ﬂuxes q =hvˆ and m˙=mvˆ are also shock invariants. The
current thickness h′ downstream of the jump is then given by the following relation
h′ = 1
2
h{
√
1 + 8Fˆ r2 − 1}. (86)
This turns out to be identical to the classical jump relation of open-channel hydraulics
(Bakhmeteﬀ 1932), save for the non-standard deﬁnition (69) of the Froude number
Fˆ r .
An equation for the balance of mechanical energy can also be written
[{ 1
2
mv2 + 1
2
(ρ1 − ρ∞)g cosβ h21 + mk}vˆ + 12(ρ1 − ρ∞)g cosβ h21v]=−Γ, (87)
where Γ is the rate of energy dissipation associated with the jump. Note in (87) that
the convective ﬂux component features apparent velocity vˆ, but the term associated
with work of the pressure forces involves the original velocity v. Using relations
(84)–(87), lengthy but straightforward algebra leads to the following relation
[mkvˆ]= m˙ [k]= m˙c2
(h′ − h)3
4h2h′
− Γ, (88)
governing the change in turbulence intensity [k]= k′ − k across the jump. The ﬁrst term
on the right-hand side of (88) is a production term associated with the mechanical
energy lost by the mean ﬂow, and constitutes a generalization of the dissipation
formula for classical hydraulic jumps and bores (Stoker 1957). The second term on
the right-hand side, Γ , denotes the rate of dissipation of the total mechanical energy
(mean ﬂow+ turbulent ﬂuctuations), by processes acting locally within the jump. We
will neglect this term and simply set Γ =0.
Whereas the ﬂow thickness h on the upstream side of the jump is much smaller
than both the trench depth H and its local radius of curvature , this is not true
on the downstream side of the jump, where h ∼ H ∼ . As a result, the curvilinear
description no longer applies, and we revert to a Cartesian view for the region
xˆ > xˆJ downstream of the jump. In this region, we further apply the small-slope
approximation
sinβ ≈ tanβ, cosβ ≈ 1. (89)
To ensure compatibility of the pressure thrust terms, which dominate on the
downstream side of the jump, assumption (89) will be adopted for the shock relations
as well. With this precision, (85), (86) and (88) provide a complete set of relations
allowing us to compute the conjugate state downstream of the jump based on the
known upstream state. The matter of determining the jump position xˆJ , however, is
left unresolved, and will be addressed in the next subsection together with the critical
section.
5.3. Passage through the critical section
If the sediment-laden bottom current undergoes an internal hydraulic jump, then of
necessity it must pass through a critical section before reaching the end of the trench.
Let xˆC be the location of this critical section, where the local Froude number takes
the precise value Fˆ r =1 on the way back from sub- to supercritical ﬂow. Where
Fˆ r =1, however, the Jacobian matrix J is singular, and cannot be simply inverted
to determine the primitive variable gradients dV/dsˆ at that location. In fact, the
governing equations have no admissible solution at the critical section, unless the
source vector S of system (70) satisﬁes there the solvability condition
ST W (−) = 0, (90)
30 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
impingement point. For this purpose, an explicit second-order Runge-Kutta scheme
is used, advancing from curvilinear position sˆ to position sˆ+sˆ in the two successive
sub-steps
V (sˆ + 1
2
sˆ)= V (sˆ) + 1
2
sˆ J−1(V (sˆ)) S(V (sˆ)), (97)
V (sˆ + sˆ)= V (sˆ) + sˆ J−1(V (sˆ + 1
2
sˆ)) S(V (sˆ + 1
2
sˆ)). (98)
In order to preserve exactly the invariant (72), however, the turbid sublayer density
ρ1 is adjusted after each sub-step using
ρ1 = ρ∞ + (ρ0 − ρ∞)(−z(0)U )/(h1vˆ). (99)
Integration halts when either one of the following conditions are met. If the depth
h1 of the turbid sublayer drops to zero, then the end of the trench has been reached,
and the solution is complete. If, on the other hand, the Froude number decreases
below critical value Fˆ r =1 at some point along the way, then the assumption of a
fully supercritical ﬂow fails, and a solution featuring an internal hydraulic jump must
be sought instead. Let us deﬁne function F (xˆ) as the value of the Froude number
obtained at position xˆ using supercritical integration. An admissible supercritical
trench proﬁle will then be such that Fmin = minF (xˆ)> 1.
To construct a solution with a jump, a supercritical integration is ﬁrst performed
as described above, starting from the point of impingement. Each point along the
way is then a possible candidate for the location xˆJ of the internal hydraulic jump.
We associate with each candidate jump position xˆJ a value of the solvability function
G(xˆJ ), constructed as follows. The jump relations (85)–(88) are used to determine the
conjugate state V ′(xˆJ ) immediately downstream of the assumed jump, based on the
state V (xˆJ ) before the jump known from the supercritical integration. Integration
of the subcritical proﬁle is then continued, again from left to right, using the same
Runge–Kutta scheme, until a section xˆC is reached where the Froude number rises
back to the critical value Fˆ r =1. Having calculated the ﬂow state V (xˆC) at that critical
section, the local source terms S(xˆC) can be obtained from (60), hence the solvability
product (92) can be evaluated at the critical section, i.e. G(xˆJ )= ST (xˆC)W (−)(xˆC). This
is interpreted as a function of the jump position xˆJ since the proﬁle downstream of
the jump depends on where the jump is assumed to occur.
The equilibrated jump position sought is therefore such that G(xˆJ )= 0, and the
problem becomes one of ﬁnding, if it exists, the root xˆJ of the solvability function
G. This function takes negative values near impingement, rises in the downstream
direction, then decreases again, taking a maximum Gmax = maxG(xˆJ ) at a certain
candidate jump location xˆJ,max =argmaxG(xˆJ ). If Gmax > 0, then a jump is possible
in the interval xˆI < xˆJ < xˆJ,max . The function G(xˆJ ) is found to be monotonous in this
interval, hence it is straightforward to ﬁnd the simple root xˆJ using bisection. Once
this root has been found, we can continue the left-to-right integration past the critical
section until the end of the trench is reached.
The conditions under which admissible solutions with and without jumps can be
constructed can thus be summarized as follows. A fully supercritical proﬁle (without
jump) is such that Fmin > 1. An admissible transcritical proﬁle (with an internal jump
along the way), on the other hand, is such that Gmax > 0. Depending on the jet and
sand properties, it turns out that three cases are possible. For certain values of the
governing parameters, Fmin > 1 and Gmax < 0, implying that only the fully supercritical
proﬁle is admissible. For other values, Fmin < 1 and Gmax > 0, which means that only
the solution with a jump is admissible. Finally, there is a domain of overlap where
32 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
0.1(a)
(b)
(c)
0
–0.1
3
2
1
0
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
z 
(m
)
v,
 √k
 (
m
 s
–1
)
n 1
 (
m
3  
m
–3
)
xˆ  (m)
Figure 10. Computed travelling-wave solution for a slow speed of advance U =3 cm s−1:
(a) bed interface z(0) (thick solid line), turbid interface z(1) (dashed line), and outer interface
z(2) (thin solid line), with approximate solutions for the constrained trenching front and turbid
pool re-sedimentation proﬁle shown as a dash-dotted lines; (b) proﬁles of the current velocity
v (thick solid line) and square root of the turbulence intensity
√
k (thin solid line); (c) proﬁle
of the sand concentration n1 in the turbid sublayer (thick solid line), with maximum value
shown as dash-dotted line.
5.5. Interpreted proﬁles
Figure 9 shows computed steady proﬁles obtained for a relatively fast speed of advance
U =8 cm s−1. For this speed, the only admissible solution features a supercritical
proﬁle throughout the trench. Figure 9(a) shows the computed proﬁles for interfaces
z(0) (thick solid line), z(1) (dashed line), and z(2) (thin solid line). Bed interface z(0)
exhibits a curved proﬁle which transitions smoothly from a steep trenching front
upstream to a backﬁll tail of milder adverse slope. In the upstream part of the
trenching front, close to the point of impingement, the bed proﬁle features a steep
inclination that approaches, but does not attain, the maximum allowed inclination
α+ δ=67◦. Comprised between the bed interface z(0) and the turbid interface z(1), the
suspended sand layer thickens along the upstream portion, as a result of erosion and
entrainment, before gradually thinning along the backﬁll tail where deposition and
detrainment occur. The trench ends where the turbid layer reaches zero thickness,
34 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
which takes the form of a non-equilibrium relation and implies that, asymptotically,
the density of the turbid layer will tend towards a density ρ1 = (ρ0+ρ∞)/2 intermediate
between the densities of the underlying sediment bed and outer ambient. For the
suspended sediment concentration n1, the asymptotic result is n1 → n0/2. Because of
the upstream boundary conditions, constraints (49) and (83), and the lag distance
required for equilibration, however, the concentration will start from below and never
quite reach this value. Value n1,max = n0/2 thus constitutes an upper bound for the
suspended sediment concentration that can be attained in the turbid sublayer.
Figure 10 shows corresponding plots for a slower speed of advance, set to value
U =3 cm s−1, with all other parameters kept the same as before. For this case, the only
admissible solution features an internal hydraulic jump. As illustrated in ﬁgure 10(a),
the eroding jet ﬁrst plunges down a steep trenching front, limited by constraint (83)
shown as a dash-dotted line. This intense erosion is cut short when the thin shooting
current undergoes an internal hydraulic jump, beyond which the turbid interface
slightly overshoots the original sea-bed level. Shown in ﬁgure 10(b), the current
velocity v undergoes a sudden drop at the jump transition. The modelled turbulence
intensity k, on the other hand, rises across the jump owing to the assumed energy
transfer from the mean ﬂow. This enhanced turbulence intensity allows the slower
ﬂow to erode the sea-bed gently beyond the jump, delaying re-deposition until further
downstream.
Eventually, turbulence dissipates, at which point the backﬁll limb of the trench
approaches the turbid pool approximation of (93)–(96), with a linear rise of the bed
proﬁle (dash-dotted line), back to the undisturbed sea-bed level where the trench
terminates. For this case, the jump is located at position xˆJ = 0.034 m, such that
the steady ﬂow passes smoothly through a critical section at position xˆC = 0.221m,
before the trench ends at position xˆE =0.244m. Figure 10(c) shows how the sand
concentration in the turbid sublayer rises along the supercritical upstream stretch
of the proﬁle, then drops slightly immediately after the jump, where entrainment of
ambient water exceeds erosion of bed material. The suspended sand concentration
then rises again to approach a constant value in the downstream turbid-pool region,
but this value lies below the limiting concentration n1,max = n0/2 (dash-dotted line).
Figure 11 shows the case of intermediate speed of advance, set here to value
U =5 cm s−1, with all the other parameters again left unchanged. For this speed, the
admissibility conditions overlap, and solutions with and without a jump can both
be constructed. Figure 11(a) shows the ﬂow pattern computed under the assumption
that no jump forms, while ﬁgure 11(b) shows the resulting proﬁles when a jump is
introduced. Both ﬂows represent admissible steady-state solutions for the exact same
model and operating parameters. The resulting proﬁles are therefore strictly identical
in their upstream portion, where the ﬂow is supercritical. Figure 11(a) shows how the
supercritical proﬁles can be continued to the end of the trench without any regime
transition. The current gradually expands, but remains thin throughout the erosion
and deposition process. Figure 11(b), on the other hand, shows the alternative steady
proﬁles obtained when an internal jump is allowed to form. The ﬂow then undergoes
a sudden expansion at the jump, with the turbid sublayer invading the whole depth
of the trench. Eventually, however, the suspended sand settles back to the bed which
rises back to its original level. Owing to the local turbulence enhancement associated
with the jump, scour in ﬁgure 11(b) reaches slightly deeper than in ﬁgure 11(a), but
the resulting trench length is shorter.
In the literature, the possible coexistence of two possible steady states, with and
without jump, is known to occur for other types of shallow ﬂow. This includes the
36 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
0.1(a)
0
–0.1
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
z (m)
z (m)
z (m)
z (m)
0.1(b)
0
–0.1
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
0.1(c)
0
–0.1
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
0.1(d)
0
–0.1
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
xˆ  (m)
Figure 12. Comparison of observed and computed proﬁles for low jetting strength
Σ =5.8 l s−2 at various speeds of advance: (a) U =4.0 cm s−1; (b) U =3.5 cm s−1;
(c) U =2.9 cm s−1; (d) U =2.4 cm s−1. Filled circles = measured bed proﬁle; open circles =
measured outer limit of suspended sediment; curves = computed proﬁles for the bed interface
z(0) (thick solid line), turbid interface z(1) (dashed line), and outer interface z(2) (thin solid line).
signiﬁcant because all computations are performed under the same values of the model
parameters.
Among these parameters, tuning was required only for the friction factor f (set
to value f =0.05), and for the eﬀective settling speed (set to value ω=3 cm s−1), all
other constitutive constants being obtained from either generic experiments (e.g. plane
38 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.4 1.6 1.8
12
10
8
6
4
2
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
U/W
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
gH
—–
W2
H (cm)
U (cm s–1)
Σ3
Σ2
Σ1
Σ1
Σ2
Σ3
Figure 14. Relation between trench depth H and speed of advance U : symbols = experimental
observations for diﬀerent jetting strengths Σ1 = 5.8 l s
−2 (∗, ), Σ2 = 8.1 l s−2 (+, ) and
Σ3 = 10.6 l s
−2 (×, ); curves = computed relations H (U ) parameterized by the jetting strength
Σ for values Σ1,Σ2,Σ3; circled symbols = stationary jets; algebraic symbols = separated
ﬂows; ﬁlled symbols and solid lines = ﬂows with internal jump; open symbols and dashed
lines = shooting ﬂows.
(for the friction factor) and from our settling column tests (for the settling speed).
Without forcing or case-by-case tuning, the proposed model is thus able to predict
the main features of the system response over a range of jetting conditions.
6.2. Trench depth
Figure 14 further documents the dependence of the trench depth H on the speed of
advance U and jetting strength Σ , using data from a larger set of 38 experimental runs.
The trench depth is deﬁned as the maximum drop of the bed proﬁle below its initial
level, i.e. H = max(−z(0)(xˆ)). As noted previously, this depth tends to increase for
higher jetting strengths and slower speeds of advance. In ﬁgure 14, data points from
runs with and without a hydraulic jump are plotted using ﬁlled and open symbols,
respectively, with diﬀerent symbol shapes associated with the three jetting strengths
tested Σ1 = 5.8 l s
−2, Σ2 = 8.1 l s−2, and Σ3 = 10.6 l s−2. For comparison, calculated
curves for the internal jump case and purely shooting-ﬂow case are plotted as solid
and dashed lines, respectively. For intermediate speeds of advance, both types of
solution are admissible and the two sets of curves overlap.
For jetting strengths Σ1 and Σ3, the obtained relationship between trench depth
and speed of advance features a break of trend at the transition between regimes
with and without jumps. In the absence of internal jump, the trench depth varies
roughly with the inverse of the speed of advance (dashed lines and open symbols).
A deeper trench results when the sand bed is exposed longer to the erosive action
of the jet. Although the trench depth continues to increase for the slower speeds of
advance at which an internal hydraulic jump forms (solid lines and ﬁlled symbols),
40 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
(circled algebraic symbols), obtained when the jetting head is held ﬁxed; separated
ﬂows (algebraic symbols), observed at very slow speeds of advance; ﬂows with an
internal hydraulic jump (ﬁlled symbols) observed at slow speeds; and shooting ﬂows
(open symbols) observed at high speeds of advance. These correspond, respectively,
to ﬁgures 5(a) to 5(d), reproduced in cartoon form on the phase diagram of ﬁgure 15.
To facilitate comparison with results from other tests, we have provided in ﬁgures 14
and 15 alternative abscissae and ordinates expressed in dimensionless form, taking
the fall speed W and acceleration due to gravity g as normalizing variables.
On the same diagram, lines are used to delineate the domains of admissibility
of solutions with and without jump, as computed on the basis of our shallow-ﬂow
theory. The solid line denotes condition Gmax =0 which, for a given jetting strength,
represents the fastest speed of advance at which a jump may form. The dashed line
denotes condition Fmin =1, which likewise represents the slowest speed of advance at
which the ﬂow can remain supercritical throughout the trench. The sector comprised
between these two curves represents the domain of overlap in which both types of
solution are admissible.
Agreement between theory and experiments requires that only open symbols
(shooting ﬂows) be observed to the right of the solid line, and that only solid
symbols (ﬂows with internal jumps) be found to the left of the dashed line, with both
types of symbol allowed inside the sector of overlap (where both ﬂow patterns can
theoretically occur). The observations are found to be consistent with these domain
predictions. Nevertheless, we emphasize again that the experiments conducted at zero
and very slow speeds of advance (circled and uncircled algebraic symbols) lie outside
the scope of the theory. For these conditions, the jet-induced ﬂow either rolls up into
a spanwise vortex or separates from the bed, and the theory breaks down.
7. Conclusions
In the present work, theory and experiments were used to examine underwater
sand beds exposed to the geomorphic action of travelling plane jets. This jetting
action leads to the formation of a translating scour hole of permanent shape, in
which the turbulent current negotiates a dynamic equilibrium with the curved bed
proﬁle. The turbulent underﬂow erodes and deposits sediment from the static bed,
while simultaneously entraining quiescent water from the outer ambient. Because of
sediment suspension, the bottom current acquires a higher density than the ambient,
allowing gravity to aﬀect both the turbulence generation and the longitudinal balance
of the ﬂow. In particular, gravitational inﬂuence on the sediment-laden current can be
strong enough to force a transition between supercritical and subcritical ﬂow, leading
to the formation of an internal hydraulic jump.
As a result, the jet-induced bottom currents can equilibrate into two types of steady
proﬁles inside the travelling trench: shooting ﬂows, which remain thin throughout,
or ﬂows featuring a sudden expansion at the internal hydraulic jump. For constant
jetting strength, the transition from shooting-ﬂow to internal-jump regimes takes place
when the speed of advance of the travelling jet goes from fast to slow. Slower speeds
of advance lead to longer exposure of the bed to the erosional action of the plane jet,
leading to a deeper scour hole. Eventually, the sediment-laden current cannot ﬂow
out of the deep hole it has dug itself into without ﬁrst undergoing an internal jump.
By slowing down the current, the jump curtails its erosive action and acts as a limiter
on the trench depth. Internal-jump formation also leads to trenches of shorter length.
On the downstream side of the jump, the sediment-laden current ponds into a turbid
pool where sand grains settle back to the bed.
42 A. T. H. Perng and H. Capart
Bagnold, R. A. 1966 An approach to the sediment transport problem from general physics. US
Geol. Surv. Prof. Paper 422-I.
Baines, P. G. 1995 Topographic Eﬀects in Stratiﬁed Flows. Cambridge University Press.
Bakhmeteff, B. A. 1932 Hydraulics of Open Channels. McGraw-Hill.
Bombardelli, F. A. & Gioia, G. 2006 Scouring of granular beds by jet-driven axisymmetric
turbulent cauldrons. Phys. Fluids 18, art. 088101, 1–4.
Chen, C. J. & Rodi, W. 1980 Vertical Buoyant Jets: A Review of Experimental Data. Pergamon.
Chen, H., Crosta, G. B. & Lee, C. F. 2006 Erosional eﬀects on runout of fast landslides, debris
ﬂows and avalanches: a numerical investigation. Ge´otechnique 56(5), 305–322.
Crowe, C. T. 2000 On models for turbulence modulation in ﬂuid–particle ﬂows. Intl J. Multiphase
Flow 26, 719–727.
Dronkers, J. 2005 Dynamics of Coastal Systems. World Scientiﬁc.
Durbin, P. A. & Pettersson Reif, B. A. 2001 Statistical Theory and Modeling for Turbulent Flows.
Wiley.
Ellison, T. H. & Turner, J. S. 1959 Turbulent entrainment in stratiﬁed ﬂows. J. Fluid Mech. 6,
423–448.
Fraccarollo, L. & Capart, H. 2002 Riemann wave description of erosional dam-break ﬂows.
J. Fluid Mech. 461, 183–228.
Fredsøe, J. & Deigaard, R. 1992 Mechanics of Coastal Sediment Transport. World Scientiﬁc.
Gioia, G. & Bombardelli, F. A. 2005 Localized turbulent ﬂows on scouring granular beds. Phys.
Rev. Lett. 95, art. 014501, 1–4.
Guy, H. P., Simons, D. B., & Richardson, E. V. 1966 Summary of alluvial channel data from ﬂume
experiments, 1956–1961, Geol. Surv. Prof. Paper 462-I.
Hoffman, A. L. 1967 A single ﬂuid model for shock formation in MHD shock tubes. J. Plasma
Phys. 1, 193–207.
Hogg A. J., Huppert, H. E. & Dade, W. B. 1997 Erosion by planar turbulent wall jets. J. Fluid
Mech. 338, 317–340.
Hopfinger, E. J., Kurniawan, A., Graf, W. H. & Lemmin, U. 2004 Sediment erosion by Go¨rtler
vortices: the scour-hole problem. J. Fluid Mech. 520, 327–342.
Hsu, T.-J., Jenkins, J. T. & Liu, P. L.-F. 2003 On two-phase sediment transport: dilute ﬂow.
J. Geophys. Res. 108(C3), art. 3057, 1–14.
Hydon, P. E. 2000 Symmetry Methods for Diﬀerential Equations. Cambridge University Press.
Jirka, G. H. 2006 Integral model for turbulent buoyant jets in unbounded stratiﬁed ﬂows. Part 2:
Plane jet dynamics resulting from multiport diﬀuser jets. Environ. Fluid Mech. 6(1), 43–100.
Knox, D., Krumholz, D. J. & Clausner, J. E. 1994 Water injection dredging in the United States.
In Proc. Second Intl Conf. on Dredging and Dredged Material Placement (ed. E. Clark McNair,
Jr), pp. 847–856, ASCE.
Kobayashi, N. & Johnson, B. D. 2001 Sand suspension, storage, advection, and settling in surf and
swash zones. J. Geophys. Res. 106(C5), 9363–9376.
Kobayashi, N. & Tega, Y. 2002 Sand suspension and transport on equilibrium beach. ASCE J.
Waterways, Port, Coastal, Ocean Engng 128(6), 239–248.
Kolmogorov, A. N. 1941 The local structure of turbulence in incompressible viscous ﬂuid for very
large Reynolds number. Dokl. Akad. Nauk SSSR 30, 301–305. [English translation Proc. R.
Soc. Lond. A (1991) 434, 9–13.]
Kostic, S. & Parker, G. 2007 Conditions under which a supercritical turbidity current traverses
an abrupt transition to vanishing bed slope without a hydraulic jump. J. Fluid Mech. 586,
119–145.
Machin, J. 2001 Recent Research on Cable Jet Burial. Perry Slingsby Systems, Jupiter, Florida.
Mastbergen, D. R. & Van den Berg, J. H. 2003 Breaching in ﬁne sands and the generation of
sustained turbidity currents in submarine canyons. Sedimentology 50, 625–637.
Mathieu, J. & Scott, J. 2000 An Introduction to Turbulent Flow. Cambridge University Press.
Mazurek, K. A., Rajaratnam, N. & Sego, D. C. 2003 Scour of a cohesive soil by submerged plane
turbulent wall jets. J. Hydraul. Res. 41(2), 195–206.
van Melkebeek, E. 2002 Pre-trenching, pre-sweeping and backﬁlling for the 36” oﬀshore pipeline
project in Taiwan. Terra Aqua 87(3), 19–25.
