2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
在圓環中超圖形之嵌入與著色 
Hypergraph Embedding and Coloring in a Cycle 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-274-011- 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：何漢彰  吳鳳技術學院 資訊工程系 
 
中文摘要 
我們考慮在圓環中超圖形的嵌入與著
色問題，將超圖邊當作路徑嵌入到圓環中，
使得在圓環中沒有兩個超圖邊使用相同的
顏色通過相同的連線，我們的目標是讓超圖
邊使用的顏色數量最小化。此問題甚至在超
圖 邊 只 有 兩 個 節 點 都 是 完 全 艱 難
(NP-Compete)。在此計畫中，我們已經把這
個問題規劃成整數線性程式(ILP)，並使用
LP 放鬆及經驗法則，來求得有效的近似
解。此研究在許多領域都有實際運用，包括
電子設計自動化(EDA) 、光學網路、分散
計算(distributed Computing)等。本研究的相
關成果已經投稿國際期刊。 
關鍵詞：超圖形的嵌入與著色、完全艱難、
整數線性程式、LP 放鬆、電子設計自動化、
分散計算。 
Abstract 
We consider the problem of embedding 
and coloring hyperedges of a hypergraph as 
paths in a cycle, such that no two hyperedges 
using the same color pass through the same 
link in the cycle. Our objective is to minimize 
the chromatic number of hyperedges. The 
problem is NP-complete even when each 
hyperedge contains exactly two vertices. In 
this project, we have formulated this problem 
as an Integer Linear Program (ILP) and solved 
the approximation solution by using 
LP-relaxation and heuristic approaches. This 
study has practical applications in several 
areas, including electronic design automation 
(EDA), optical networking and distributed 
computing. Related paper on this project has 
been submitted for publication on 
international journal. 
Keywords: Hypergraph Embedding and 
Coloring, NP-complete, Integer Linear 
Program, LP-Relaxation, Electronic Design 
Automation, Distributed Computing. 
一、前言 
Given a hypergraph and a cycle, the 
problem of hypergraph embedding and 
coloring in a cycle (HECC) is to embed m 
hyperedges of a hypergraph as paths in an 
n-vertex cycle, such that no two hyperedges 
using the same color pass through the same 
link in the cycle. The HECC problem is 
practically applicable in several areas, 
including Electronic Design Automation 
(EDA), optical networking and distributed 
computing, etc.  
In EDA moat routing, several 
applications model the process of connecting a 
concentric rectangle to a surrounding cycle of 
pads [GL88, GC96]. Since there is a number 
of nets whose pins must be connected to the 
padframe by wires, we would like to route the 
nets to consume the layer space between the 
4 
(ILP) and solve it by using LP-relaxation and 
rounding heuristics.  
三、文獻探討 
The HECC problem has several 
sub-problems. In a special case when we 
consider only the hypergraph embedding 
problem and each hyperedge has a uniform 
cost, the sub-problem is equivalent to the 
hypergraph congestion problem. Several 
studies related to the hypergraph congestion 
problem have been performed. Frank et al. 
[FNSST92] and Gonzalez et al. [GL88] 
proposed linear time algorithms to solve the 
problem when all hyperedges contain exactly 
only two vertices. Canley and Cohoon [GC97] 
showed that the problem is NP-complete in 
general, but solvable in polynomial time if the 
maximum congestion is bounded by a 
constant. Gonzalez [G98] proposed two 
improved approximation algorithms that both 
generate solutions with maximum congestion 
at most two times the optimum. Carpenter et 
al. [CCGS98] provided a linear time 
approximation algorithm which routes the 
hyperedges in the clockwise direction starting 
from the lowest numbered vertex to the 
highest numbered vertex. This algorithm is 
also guaranteed to find a solution whose value 
is at most twice the optimal value. Recently, 
Gu and Wang presented an algorithm to solve 
the unweighted WHEC problem with the 
performance ratio 1.8 by a re-embedding 
technique [Gu03]. Lee and Ho presented an 
LP-based algorithm to solve the problem with 
the performance ratio 1.5 [LH03B, LH05]. 
Deng and Li proposed a polynomial time 
approximation scheme (PTAS) for the 
unweighted WHEC problem by a randomized 
rounding approach [DL04]. 
When we consider only the graph 
embedding problem and each edge has a 
weighted cost, the sub-problem is equivalent 
to the ring loading problem without demand 
splitting. Since each demand must be entirely 
routed in either of the two directions, the ring 
loading problem is NP-complete [SS92]. 
Cosares and Saniee presented a polynomial 
time algorithm that approximates the optimal 
solution value to within a multiplicative factor 
of two [SS92]. Schrijver, Seymour and 
Winkler developed an efficient algorithm to 
generate a solution that exceeds the optimum 
by at most an additive term of 1.5 times the 
maximum weight [SSW98]. Khanna proposed 
a polynomial time approximation scheme that 
computes a solution with at most 1+e times 
the optimum for any fixed constant e> 0 
[K97]. 
If we consider only the hypergraph 
coloring problem and each hypergraph is 
already embedded in the cycle, the 
sub-problem is equivalent to the circular path 
coloring problem. Consider a set of paths 
around a circle. Garey et al. [GJMP80] 
showed that the minimum coloring problem 
on circular paths is NP-complete. A 
2-approximation algorithm can be obtained by 
cutting the cycle at an arbitrary link and 
solving the coloring problem optimally on the 
resulting interval graph. This approach has 
been proposed fro undirected path coloring 
[RU94] and for directed path coloring 
[MKR95]. Tucker [T75] proposed a 1.5- 
approximation algorithm for a special set of 
paths, in which the set of paths contains no 
singular triples. Recently, Kumar [K01] 
proposed a randomized approximation 
algorithm that achieves asymptotic 
6 
approximation is the time required to solve the 
linear program. To improve the efficiency, we 
also present an efficient LP-free heuristic 
algorithm to provide an approximated solution. 
When two hyperedges are uncrossing in the 
cycle, we apply the merge procedure to reduce 
the required chromatic number. Otherwise, we     
modify the Tucker’s algorithm [T75] to 
generate a feasible solution whose value is at 
most 2(L+1)/L, where L represents the lower 
bound of the HECC problem. The algorithm is 
efficient since its time complexity O(nm) is 
linear on the number of nodes and hyperedges.  
五、結果與討論 
In this project, we are concerned with 
the problem of hypergraph embedding and 
coloring in a cycle (HECC). The objective is 
to minimize the chromatic number of 
hyperedges. This study is important since it is 
practically applicable in several areas, 
including Electronic Design Automation 
(EDA), optical networking and distributed 
computing, etc. The HECC problem has been 
formulated as an Integer Linear Program (ILP).  
The total number of binary variables in the 
ILP grow as O(nmw), where n is the number 
of nodes, m is the number of hyperedges and 
w is the number of sufficient colors. We solve 
the ILP by using LP-relaxation and rounding 
heuristic. Applying LP-relaxation, the ILP can 
be converted into an equivalent MILP 
(mixed-ILP) problem. We can solve the MILP 
efficiently because the number of integer 
constraints and the number of binary decision 
variables in the original ILP can be reduced 
significantly. In this project, we also show that 
the problem can be solved optimally when the 
total number of integer variables is reduced to 
O(m). However, the main problem with the 
LP-based approximation is the time required 
to solve the linear program. To improve the 
efficiency, we also present an efficient LP-free 
heuristic algorithm to provide an 
approximated solution. 
六、計畫成果自評 
(1) 研究內容與原計畫相符，並已達成預期
目標。 
(2)部分研究內容已投稿國際期刊： 
"Approximation Algorithms for Hypergraph 
Embedding and Coloring in a Cycle," submit 
to SIAM Journal on Optimization. 
 
參考文獻 
[CCGS98] T. Carpenter, S. Cosares, J. L. Ganley and I. 
Saniee, ''A simple approximation algorithm for two 
problems in circuit design,'' IEEE Trans. on Computer, 
vol. 47, no. 11, pp. 1310-1312, 1998. 
[CV00] R. Carr and S. Vempala, ''Randomized 
metarounding,'' Proc. 32th ACM Symp. Theory of 
Computing, pp. 58-62, 2000. 
[DRM05] R.V. Dorneles, R.L. Rizzi, A.L. Martinotto, 
''Parallel computational model with dynamic load 
balancing in PC clusters'', High Performance 
Computing For Computational Science, pp.468-479 
2005 
[FNST92] A. Frank, T. Nishizeki, H. Suzuki and E. 
Tardos, ''Algorithms for routing around a rectangle,'' 
Discrete Appl. Math., vol. 40, no. 3, pp. 363-378, 1992. 
[G98]T. Gonzalez, ''Improved approximation algorithms 
for embedding hyperedges in a ring,'' Information 
Processing Letters, vol. 67, no. 5, pp. 267-271, 1998. 
[GC96] J. L. Ganley and J. P. Cohoon, ''A provably 
good moat routing algorithm,'' Proc. Sixth Great Lakes 
Symp. VLSI, pp.  86-91, 1996. 
[GC97] J. L. Ganley and J. P. Cohoon, 
''Minimum-congestion hypergraph embedding in a 
ring,'' IEEE Trans. on Computer, vol. 46, no. 5, pp. 
600-602, 1997. 
[GJMP80] M.R. Garey, D.S. Johnson, G.L. Miller, CH 
Papadimitriou, ''The complexity of coloring circular 
arcs and chords,'' SIAM J. Algebraic Discrete Methods, 
