 I
摘要 
不銹鋼與銅金屬細線已廣泛應用於各種工業領域，而金屬細線電阻銲接技術亦已受到
相當廣泛之重視，然目前之相關文獻仍甚缺乏，因此本研究針對 AISI 316 不銹鋼以及 JIS 
C2700W H3260 黃銅金屬細線進行微電阻銲搭接銲接參數之研究，首先利用電-熱-結構耦
合之有限元素方法，探討其銲接參數範圍，並分別針對其銲接接頭探討相關之機械性質與
顯微組織，結果發現銲接母材性質對銲接參數需求具有極大之影響，並且雙銲核為細線搭
接銲核形成之主要機制，同時電流變化對銲核成長之影響亦遠高於大型或小型電阻銲接。 
 
關鍵字：不銹鋼、黃銅、微電阻銲、搭接、顯微組織 
 
Abstract  
Stainless steel and copper alloy has been extensively used in many industries, and the 
micro-scale resistance welding technique is also placed an importance on fine wire welding. 
However, there are still lacks of corresponding research in this field. This study aims to 
investigate the micro-scale resistance lap-joint welding for AISI 316 stainless steel and JIS 
C2700W H3260 brass. First, a three-dimensional coupled thermal -electrical-mechanical FEM 
analysis is employed to obtain the reasonable welding parameters. Then, the mechanical 
properties and microstructure of the welding joint are investigated. The results show that the 
being welded metal properties have very important influences on the required welding parameters. 
In addition, dual-nugget is the main mechanism for the fine wire lap-joint resistance welding. At 
the same time, the welding current is more sensitive to the nugget growth than that of large-scale 
and small-scale resistance welding. 
 
Keywords: Stainless Steel Ultra-fine Wire, Brass, Micro-scale Resistance Welding, Lap-joint, 
Welding Parameter, Microstructure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
區之設定有著深厚之學問，且由於許多理論
公式的發展以及模擬軟體的進步新增了許
多可供應用的元素形式，因此在精確度上更
是向上提升。 
不銹鋼意指在鋼材中加入大量的鉻與
鎳，以加強鋼材之耐蝕性，使其不易生銹，
由於不銹鋼除了耐蝕性之外也具有良好的
耐銹性、耐氧化性以及良好的加工性以及機
械性質，因此受到廣泛使用，在銲接上不銹
鋼適用於一般常用的銲接法，但是銲接品質
以及銲接部位的難易度會因為銲接方式而
有所差異，最常使用的電弧銲法，在品質上
相當優異且變形也不明顯。 
銅具有優良的導電性、導熱性、耐腐蝕
性、延展性及一定的強度等特性，在工業中
得到廣泛應用。影響銅及銅合金銲接性的難
點主要有三項元素︰一是高導熱率的影
響。銅的熱導熱率比碳鋼大 7 到 11 倍，當
實驗所採用之參數與銲接之不銹鋼相同時
時，則銅材將難以熔化，且應用在填充金屬
和母材熔合方面效果相當差。二為銲接的熱
裂傾向大。銲接時，熔池內銅與其中的雜質
形成低熔點共晶物，使銅及銅合金具有明顯
的熱脆性，會產生熱裂紋。三是產生氣孔的
缺陷比碳鋼嚴重得多，主要是氫氣孔[8]。在
銅線之銲接過程中，銅之高導熱性是一相當
嚴重之銲接影響因素，本研究採用直流電流
電阻銲機進行不銹鋼細線以及黃銅線之銲
接研究，藉由以上之不銹鋼以及銅之性質分
析，並瞭解其銲接之過程現象，並且考量文
獻中細線之銲接特性，進而獲得不同參數之
下模擬以及實驗結果，並對銲核以及母材之
情形加以探討；由於細線電阻銲接相關之參
考文獻數量甚少，因此期望藉此研究以獲得
更進一步之成果。 
 
4.研究方法 
本研究是以 ANSYS 做有限元素的模擬
軟體由美國賓州的 ANSYS 公司所開發，在
市面上是一套受到廣泛使用的軟體，而電阻
銲接在分析上，包含了結構、熱、電、接觸、
塑性變形的問題，在分析之過程必須以耦合
[9][10]之形式，本研究將針對 AISI 316 不銹鋼
與 JIS C2700W H3260 黃銅執行有限元素模
擬分析，流程如圖 4-1 所示，且將針對 AISI 
316 不銹鋼與 JIS C2700W H3260 黃銅進行
細線搭接之電阻銲相關實驗，其說明包括母
材之性質、試片前處理、金屬細線搭接夾制
具設計、微電阻銲接試驗設備、顯微組織觀
察、機械性質試驗、拉伸試驗。 
電-熱分析
● 熱產生過程
● 銲核大小與形狀
● 電流分布
● 電場
熱-機械分析
● 應力
● 變形
● 電極位移
● 接觸壓力
電-熱分析後處理
● 熱產生過程
● 銲核尺寸、形狀與穿
透深度
● 熱影響區
熱-機械分析後處理
● 應力
● 變形
● 電極位移
擠壓時期
機械分析
● 應力/變形
● 接觸面積變化
銲接開始
銲接保持時間結束
 
圖 4-1 模擬分析流程圖 
 
5.結果與討論 
5.1 微電阻銲搭接之有限元素模擬分析 
不銹鋼細線在電流 30A 時產生雙銲核
之情形，而電流 40A 以上時其銲核成長之
趨勢呈現扁長形之單銲核，其銲核溫度分佈
及電流密度分佈如圖 5-1~5-4 所示，其不銹
鋼不同電流界面溫度分佈如圖 5-5 所示。較
大之電極壓力將使電流密度較大處趨向於
工件中間，但在通以電流之後由於界面熔融
之因素，造成接觸壓力降低且在界面處差異
甚小，因此可知在足夠之電流下，電流對銲
核成形部位之影響會遠大於電極壓力之影
響。雙銲核之產生其原因為尺寸過小之工
件，受電極壓力之作用產生彎曲之現象，而
使接觸壓力最小之部位並非發生於工件中
心部位，而是發生於接近電極邊緣之部位，
因此造成此區電流密度集中，在左右兩側產
生熔融，而在電流強度不足之情況下，工件
中心無法累積足夠之熱量產生熔融，因此產
生雙銲核之情形。 
 
圖 5-1 不銹鋼細線銲接接頭溫度分佈圖
(P=0.3 MPa, I=30A, T=0.2s) 
 4
 
圖 5-7 AISI 316 不銹鋼細線銲核區 顯
微組織 
 
圖5-8為黃銅細線搭接之銲核，其銲核
部位之柱狀晶結構相較於不銹鋼較為細
長，由於黃銅熱傳導性比不銹鋼大，造成銲
核部位冷卻速度加快，因此在銲核中心部位
並未見到大量等軸晶的形成，而是產生大量
之柱狀晶結構，如圖5-8A所示，且其柱狀晶
結構相較於不銹鋼銲核內部之柱狀晶，在尺
寸上較為大，且在銲核中由於過冷度之影
響，在許多部位形成樹狀晶，其原因為此部
位之溫度已經低於黃銅之熔點，因此柱狀晶
為了釋放晶粒所涵之潛熱，因此增大自身表
面積所以開始由柱狀晶之結構產生分枝其
形狀婉如樹枝一般，黃銅產生樹狀晶情形遠
較不銹鋼明顯，黃銅在銲核與母材界面並未
見到粗大之柱狀晶，原因是在銲核邊界部位
有較大之過冷度，使該部位之溫度低於熔
點，因此邊緣之柱狀晶大量發展成樹狀晶結
構，且此區由於冷卻快速也形成許多細小之
等軸晶，因此在銲核邊緣與母材間形成一道
很明顯之界面，如圖5-8B所示。 
 
圖 5-8 JIS C2700W H3260 黃銅細線銲
核顯微組織 
 
圖5-9為不銹鋼搭接銲接實驗中發生之
雙銲核之情形，在電阻銲細線搭接模擬過程
中提到不足的電流會產生雙銲核之情形，以
此圖是以電流30A為執行參數，由圖可見
A、B兩處分別都有熔融之情形，且A點銲核
明顯較B點銲核大且明顯，且A點銲核使細
線產生嚴重變形而發生翹曲之情形，由此可
見兩銲核溫度分部差距甚大，由於細線搭接
本身並非是對稱之情形因此左右銲核之電
流密度也不相同，所以造成雙銲核形成時其
銲核尺寸大小並不相同。 
 
 
圖 5-9 雙銲核形成照片圖 
 
5.3 奈米壓痕試驗 
由奈米壓痕測試，比較其不銹鋼以及黃
銅銲接接頭部位顯微組織與微硬度之關
係，如圖5-10~5-13所示，其結果顯示，銲核
中心部位會有較大之微硬度值，且細晶區之
部位因為結構密實差排不易發生因此有較
高之微硬度值，不銹鋼銲核結晶為等軸晶以
A 
B 
A B
A 
B
A B 
 6
 
圖 5-15 黃銅細線接頭拉伸強度                           
(P=0.1 MPa, I=45~55 A) 
 
 
 
圖 5-16 黃銅細線接頭拉伸強度                    
(P=0.05 MPa, I=45~55 A) 
 
 
圖 5-17 黃銅細線接頭拉伸強度                           
(P=0.1 MPa, I=45~55 A) 
 
6.結論 
本文主要探討AISI 316不銹鋼以及JIS 
C2700W H3260黃銅細線搭接之微電阻銲，
藉由熱-電-結構耦合分析進行模擬研究以獲
得合理之參數，然後執行細線搭接銲接實
驗，並進行機械性質測試與顯微組織觀察，
所獲得之結論如下所述： 
1.雙銲核之發生為金屬細線微電阻銲
搭接銲接之基本形成機制，由於接觸壓力之
最小值並非發生於工件中心部位，且微電阻
銲所使用之電流值較小型電阻銲為低，因此
在銲接模擬過程中可發現不足之電流將造
成雙銲核形成現象。 
2.在微電阻銲細線搭接之模擬分析
中，當電流增高時工件界面電流分佈會呈現
均勻化，因此電極壓力之變化對於銲核成長
之影響將大幅降低。 
3.不銹鋼以及黃銅細線因電阻率以及
導熱性顯著差異，將導致需求之銲接參數明
顯不同。銲接過程中電流值之改變對於不銹
鋼細線有較顯著之影響，而對於黃銅細線銲
接則影響甚小，其原因為黃銅細線導電性佳
且散熱快速，加大電流亦無法使銲核溫度有
效提升，且過大之電流將會造成細線之斷
裂，因此黃銅細線必須在通以適當之電流
下，延長銲接時間，使其界面部位有足夠之
時間累積熱量使搭接部位界面熔融形成銲
核。  
4.在奈米壓痕試驗中，由於不銹鋼以及
黃銅細線材料性質上之差異，造成搭接部位
銲核之顯微組織不同，結果顯示不銹鋼細線
由於銲核冷卻速率較慢，因此在銲核內部形
成較細小之等軸晶粒，至於黃銅細線之銲核
由於冷卻速率較快，因此造成銲核內部形成
細長之柱狀晶粒。細小之晶粒由於具有較大
之晶界面積因此可以阻礙差排之移動，因此
具有較大之強度與微硬度值。 
  
7.計畫結果自評 
    本研究計畫已成功執行銲接模擬以及
實驗，並發展出一套完整之微電阻銲接搭接
實驗系統，且以有限元素模擬取得銲接參數
範圍，並執行實驗結果分析最後達成細線搭
接之成果，且在強度上也能藉由參數之控制
進而獲得近乎母材之強度，本研究之研究流
程、參數範圍以及顯微結構與強度之分析，
將成為日後相關研究之重要參考基礎。本研
究發表之相關論文如下： 
 
1. Characteristics of Small-Scale Resistance 
Spot Welding of Kovar Alloy. 
 
2.Nugget Analysis of Micro-Scale Resistance 
 
1
□ 赴國外出差或研習 
□ 赴大陸地區出差或研習 
X 出席國際學術會議 
□ 國際合作研究計畫出國 
心得報告 
計 畫 名 稱 金屬細線搭接精密電阻點銲
最佳銲接參數分析 
計 畫 編 號 NSC95－2221－E－020－
007－ 
報 告 人 
姓 名 陳永昌 
服 務 機 構
及 職 稱
國立屏東科技大學車輛工程
學系副教授 
會議/訪問時間 
 地點 
11/21/2006 to 11/22/2006 
Bangkok, Thailand 
會 議 名 稱 The First South-East Asia International Institute of Welding Congress 
發表論文題目 CHARACTERISTICS OF SMALL-SCALE RESISTANCE SPOT WELDING OF KOVAR ALLOY 
一、經過 
本次進行論文發表所前往的國際學術會議為The First South-East Asia International 
Institute of Welding Congress，此研討會為東南亞機械銲接相關之重要會議，目的為交
流世界上最新相關之銲接研究成果。此會議之舉辦地點在泰國曼谷  (Bangkok,
Thailand)，會議時間從十一月二十一日起至二十二日止，共計二天。  
此次論文發表時間為十一月二十二日 11:30至 12:00，發表之研究論文為
“CHARACTERISTICS OF SMALL-SCALE RESISTANCE SPOT WELDING OF KOVAR 
ALLOY”。本論文主要研究目的為，針對KOVAR合金電阻點銲搭接銲接之研究，並探
討其相關銲接參數對其銲核大小以及銲接強度之影響。由於KOVER合金試片之厚度僅
為0.15mm，屬於小型電阻銲(SSRW)之範圍，因此銲接特性與大型電阻銲(LSRW)有顯
著之不同。本文所執行之銲接參數分析，針對不同之電流以及電極壓力參數加以探討
其對於銲核尺寸以及銲接強度之影響，並據此得知較佳之參數範圍，以獲得較佳之銲
接強度。 
此研究所使用之微電阻銲機，其電源形式為直流電源，其中定電流輸出機之電源
必須經過穩壓器將電壓加大，使其電流可以增加到需求範圍，且研究過程中規劃出一
套可供小型電阻銲銲接研究之銲接系統。 
 
二、心得 
此次赴曼谷參加第一屆東南亞國際銲接研討會之目的除發表論文並參與國際學術
交流外，並瞭解世界上相關銲接學術與技術研發之現況，此外也尋找與小型物件銲接
研究領域之相關資訊，以利未來相關研究之進行。 
電阻銲銲接過程中之銲接電流、接觸電阻與銲接時間等參數，皆會對電極、母材
與母材接觸面、銲接熱效應、銲核形成與銲點強度造成影響。然而，對於小型電阻銲
其相關文獻仍甚少，因此藉由以此研究之過程踏入微小物品電阻銲接之領域，藉此研
究之規劃以及資料之收集達到執行小型電阻銲之目的，並探討其銲接品質與銲接參數
  1
 
CHARACTERISTICS OF SMALL-SCALE RESISTANCE SPOT WELDING OF KOVAR ALLOY 
 
Chen Y.C.1, Chen T.P.2, Hsieh C.C.3, Hung D.J.4 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Small-scale resistance spot welding (SSRSW) process is increasingly used in many industries, 
such as medical, electrical and optoelectronic devices manufacturing. There are extensively studies 
have been focused on large-scale resistance spot welding process for a great deal of common 
metals, however, many features for thin or extra-thin workpieces bring difficulties in the reliable 
quality control of the process. In this study, the weldablity of SSRSW of an optoelectronic packaging 
material, 0.16-mm-thick Kovar alloy sheet, has been investigated. Since it involves a complicated 
interaction of mechanical, electrical, thermal, metallurgical, and contact surface phenomena within 
the process, a fully coupled FEM simulation model of SSRSW process is developed to provide 
deeper insight into the process. Additionally, a small DC type welder with monitoring system 
constructed in previous work is employed for parametric study. The numerical results are 
successfully in good agreement with corresponding experiments. It is found that the nugget 
formation strongly depends on the associated dynamic interactions between welding and process 
parameters. Furthermore, the relationships of the nugget size to the process variables of the 
maximum electrode displacement and minimum dynamic resistance are also discussed. 
 
KEYWORDS  
 
SSRSW; Kovar alloy; FEM; Process variable; Nugget formation. 
 
AUTHOR DETAILS 
 
1 Associate Professor, Department of Vehicle Engineering, National Pingtung University of Science  
 and Technology, Taiwan 
2 Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, Fortune Institute of Technology, Taiwan 
3 Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yung-Ta Institute of Technology & 
Commerce, Taiwan 
4 Graduate student, Department of Vehicle Engineering, National Pingtung University of Science  
 and Technology, Taiwan 
 
1 INTRODUCTION 
 
Resistance spot welding (RSW) produces coalescence at the pressured faying surfaces in one spot 
due to the resistance heating caused by the passage of an electric current. It offers a number of 
advantages over other welding techniques, including high speed, ease of automation and energy 
efficiency. One of the micro-joining processes, small-scale resistance spot welding (SSRSW), has 
been employed increasingly in the fabrication of electronic components and devices to join thin 
sheet metals. In general, it is ranging in thickness of workpieces from 0.125 mm to 0.40 mm.  
Compared to the traditional large-scale resistance spot welding (LSRSW), there are no detailed 
published guides for SSRSW because lack of commonality in varied applications. On the other 
hand, the influence of the monitoring parameters such as the dynamic resistance and electrode 
  3
In resistance spot welding, the electrical current density distribution is used for calculating the heat 
generation due to the electrical contact resistance. Thus, the governing equation for electrical 
analysis can be described by the Laplace equation of electrical current:  
 
     01 =⎟⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎜⎝
⎛ ∇⋅∇=⋅∇ φρJ  (1)
 
where J is the electrical current density, ρ is the electrical resistivity and Φ is the electrical potential. 
Then, the generation of Joule heat per unit volume q can be expressed as 
 
      )(q φ∇⋅φ∇ρ=
1
 (2)
 
Thermal field analysis 
 
Transient conduction heat transfer of materials during the welding process can be expressed by the 
following equation; 
 
      
t
TCSq
X
TK p2
ii
2
∂
∂⋅=+∂
∂  (3)
 
where T is the temperature field, t is the time, K is the thermal conductivity, S is the density of 
materials, Cp is the specific heat, and Xii is the direction. 
 
Structural field analysis 
 
According to the elastic mechanics analysis, it can be assumed the materials to be homogeneous 
and isotropic. Since the deformation is very small, the displacement equation can be shown as 
below; 
 
     2 di i
ii ii
Te E( G ) G u (f - ) 0
 X 1-2 X
αλ ν
∂∂+ + ∇ + =∂ ∂  
     
)2-)(1(1
E
νν
νλ +=  
(4)
 
(5)
 
where G is the shear modulus, e is the total strain, ui is the amount of deformation, fi is the body 
force, E is the Young’s modulus, α is the coefficient of thermal expansion, Td is the amount of 
temperature changed, and Xii is the direction. 
 
3 FINITE ELEMENT ANALYSIS 
 
Using the numerical analysis software, ANSYS, a two- dimensional fully coupled thermal-electrical- 
mechanical model has been developed to investigate the formation of nugget. The schematic 
diagram of the computational procedure is shown in Figure 1. 
  5
     )TT(Tq cc 21 −⋅=  (7)
 
where q is the heat flux per area, Tcc is the thermal contact conductance coefficient, and T1 and T2 
are the temperatures of contact surfaces.  
In the fully coupled fields’ analysis, a nonlinear model including transient computational approach 
was considered. The mechanical, electrical and thermal properties of the electrodes and sheets are 
a function of temperature. Meanwhile, the magnitude of electrical contact resistance at the 
interfaces during the welding operation is based on the experimental work. Some of the 
corresponding properties at the room temperature are shown in Table 2. 
 
Table 2 － Thermal and electrical properties of Kovar alloy 
 
Thermal 
conductivity 
(W/m-℃) 
Specific 
heat 
(J/ Kg-℃) 
CTE 
x10-6 
(1/℃) 
TCC 
x 108 
(W/m2-℃) 
Melting 
point 
(℃) 
Resistivity 
x10-6 
(Ohm-m) 
ECC 
x107 
(1/Ohm-m2)
17.3 439 5.68 1.4 1450 0.49   5.83 
 
The boundary conditions, as shown in Figure 2, a direct current was applied at the top surface of the 
upper electrode, and a zero potential was set at the bottom surface of the lower electrode. In 
addition, the electrode force was applied at the top surface of the upper electrode as an uniform 
distributed pressure. The welding current and the electrode pressure used for this simulation are 
presented in Table 3. Because the geometry was created according to axis-symmetry, the axial 
displacements at the bottom surface of lower electrode, together with the radical displacements of 
the symmetry axis, were all constrained. The initial temperature of the specimen was assumed to 
be the room temperature 20℃, and the coefficient of heat convection, 21 W/m2-℃, was assumed on 
the surface of specimen exposed to the atmosphere.  
 
Table 3 － Welding parameters 
 
Electrode pressure 
(MPa) 
Welding current 
(A) 
Welding time 
(ms) 
1, 3.3, 4, 5, 6 250, 270, 300, 320, 350 100 
 
  7
 
 
Figure 3 － Dimensions of the specimen 
 
The welder was also equipped with a monitoring system; two process variables of dynamic 
resistance and electrode displacement were extracted to correlate the final nugget size. This 
system can automatically retrieve the current, voltage, dynamic resistance and electrode 
displacement at every time step during the welding process. Its maximum available welding current 
was 400 amperes. The electrode force was controlled using an electromagnetic motor, and the 
upper electrode displacement was measured using an optical sensor. For accuracy, a PC with 
MATLAB program was employed to manage all of the welding and process parameters. The 
diagram of the welder assembly is shown in Figure 4. 
 
 
 
Figure 4 － Resistance spot welding machine 
 
The welding parameters used for this experiment were identical to those for simulation. In each 
welding condition, three samples were used for reliable analysis. Finally, the cross-sections of 
samples were characterized with an optical microscope, and nugget measurements were made 
from the resulting micrographs. Moreover, nugget sizes obtained from experiment were compared 
systematically with the predicted results. Figure 5 shows the designation of nugget size.  
  9
5.2 Influence of welding parameters on electrode displacement 
 
The effect of welding current and electrode force on the maximum electrode displacement is shown 
in Figure 7. The electrode displacement increases with the increases of current and electrode 
pressure. Results generated from numerical analysis are consistent with the monitored readings. 
 
240 260 280 300 320 340 360
Welding current (A)
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
M
ax
im
um
 e
le
ct
ro
de
 d
is
pl
ac
em
en
t (
m
m
)
P=1 (MPa)
P=3.3 (MPa)
P=5 (MPa)
Simulation Experiment
 
  
Figure 7 － Variation of electrode displacement with welding current and electrode pressure 
 
In resistance spot welding, it is well known that the higher the welding current and welding time, the 
higher the heat energy will be produced. The diameter of the electrode, which makes contact with 
the workpiece will determine the density of electric current. On the other hand, the amount of 
applied electrode load also affects the contact resistance and thus the heat generation at the 
interface, and the displacement of upper electrode.  
The electrode displacement due to the interaction between expansion of materials and the clamping 
of machine load is related directly with nugget formation, a too high expansion rate could result in a 
splashing while a low rate in an undersize weld [12]. While the electric current is applied, the 
electrode displacement continues to increase as the result of thermal expansion of workpieces. 
Then, it reduces gradually during the cooling stage when the welding current is switched off. The 
shape of electrode displacement curve, consequently, depends on the material properties such as 
thermal conductivity and hot strength. A typical electrode displacement curve extracted from this 
study is shown in Figure 8. Since the Kovar alloy is a low expansion metal, the maximum electrode 
displacement is much lower than that of other metals. Additionally, it is noted that the curve has a 
nearly constant stage due to the combined effects of the low thermal conductivity of Kovar alloy, 
and the decrease of electrode force resulting from a reduction in overall stiffness of the workpieces. 
 
P=3.3 MPa 
  11
0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12
Smax / Wt
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
N
t /
 E
d
P=1 (MPa)
P=3.3 (MPa)
P=5 (MPa)
Simulation Experiment
 
 
Figure 10 － Variation of nugget thickness with the maximum electrode displacement 
 
 
 
Figure 11 － Typical microstructure photograph of the nugget ( P = 3.3 MPa, I =200 A) 
 
5.4 Relationship of dynamic resistance and nugget size  
 
The factors influencing dynamic resistance are the applied electrode force, surface condition at the 
interface of the sheets, welding time, thickness of sheets, and material being welded. Among these 
factors, the applied electrode force and materials with its surface conditions play the key roles for 
the dynamic resistance [13,14].  
An approximate contact resistivity ρc (T) at the faying surface is calculated by [15, 16] 
 
     
C)(20
)(
L
A
C)(20R)(
y
y
c
c
cc °⋅⋅°= σ
ΤσΤρ  (8)
where AC is the contact area, Lc is the length of contact resistance, σy is the yield strength of 
material. Furthermore, the electrical contact conductivity, Ecc(T), is defined as  
 
  13
25 30 35 40 45
Ecc x 10   (1/ohm-m  )
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
N
d 
/ E
d 
, N
t /
 E
d
6 2
I=250 (A)
I=300 (A)
I=350 (A)
Nd/Ed Nt/Ed
 
 
Figure 13 － Variation of nugget size with Ecc and welding current 
 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Rmin x 10   (ohm)
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
N
d 
/ E
d 
, N
t /
 E
d
-3
Nd / Ed
Nt / Et
 
 
Figure 14 － Variation of nugget size with minimum dynamic resistance  
 
 
6 CONCLUSIONS 
 
Small-scale resistance spot welding is not easy to consistently produce quality welds, and the 
quality of a weld is generally characterized by its nugget diameter. In this study, the SSRSW of 
Kovar alloy has been investigated to characterize the influences of the maximum electrode 
displacement and minimum dynamic resistance on the nugget sizes. The numerical analysis and 
experimental results are compared and some conclusions are obtained as below: 
1) Nugget formation in SSRSW is within a very short period, and the growth rate of nugget 
diameter is much faster than that of nugget thickness. 
2) The nugget formation is strongly correlates to the maximum electrode displacement. Moreover, 
  15
    Society Mechanical Engineers, 1994, First edition, pp. 5. 
[16] Tsai C.L. et al.: Analysis and Development of a Real-Time Control Methodology in Resistance  
    Spot Welding, Transactions Journal of Materials & Manufacturing, 1991, vol. 100 pp. 158-176. 
 
     
  
2
化，其微電阻銲接之特性與中大型微電阻銲有明顯相異之處，且微電阻銲之銲接相關
文獻甚少，因此在微小物件之銲接上，銲接品質之控制產生較大的困難。為了適應新
的材料、技術、產品在工業上開發應用的需要，以使電阻銲及設備能滿足現代化生產
的要求，因此投身於微小銲接之領域以求微電阻銲之應用更趨廣泛以及精密。 
在銲接過程中，銲接電流為銲核尺寸之重要影響因素，在微電阻銲之領域，其電
極壓力之影響遠不如銲接電流。在過程中發現銲接時間以及銲接電流之參數組合為重
要之研究因素，過大之電流以及過長之銲接時間都將造成銲接部位之毀損以及噴濺，
因此透過此研究獲得較佳之銲接參數，不僅希望能獲得較佳之銲接強度，更期望日後
相關微電阻銲之研究能以此論文做為參考基準。 
 
三、建議與結語 
精密微電阻銲相關領域的研究，目前在文獻上仍較缺乏，其國內之應用更為稀少，
因此如何使微電阻銲這類型經濟且快速之銲接方式，在微小物件銲接上佔有一席之地
為一重要發展重點，期望政府能多予以協助與鼓勵。 
 
四、攜回資料 
研討會論文集一本 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
4
 
 
1 INTRODUCTION  
 
Resistance welding is a welding technology widely used in manufacturing industry for joining metal 
sheets and components. The weld is made by conducting a current through the metal combination 
to heat up and finally melt the metals at localized points predetermined by the design of the 
electrodes and/or the workpieces to be welded. MSRSW refers to the resistance welding processes 
for joining micro or miniaturized components; it begins at a part thickness of 125 microns and goes 
down to about 12 microns [1]. Since there are no consumable materials, such as solder or flux, 
MSRSW is easy to use and more cost effective than soldering or brazing.  
Extensive research and development work has been carried out in the area of LSRSW of sheet 
metals for applications in the automotive industry, mainly on relatively thick sheet steels and, to a 
smaller extent, on sheet aluminum-based alloys [2-4]. The most common materials found in 
MSRSW are stainless steel, copper wire, nickel, platinum, and titanium. However, there are no 
welding tables to help welding engineer select the appropriate welding technology and starting 
process parameters because lack of commonality in a variety of applications. Moreover, some 
distinct features for thin or extra-thin workpieces also bring difficulties in the reliable quality control.  
There are many parameters such as welding current, welding time and electrode force affect the 
mechanism of nugget growth directly. Many work on the research of nugget formation for LSRSW 
has been carried out in past years [5, 6]. It was found that a shorter threshold welding time or lower 
threshold welding current is needed for nugget initiation when the electrode force is decreased. In 
addition, the distribution of welding current and contact resistance at the faying surface strongly 
relates to the change of the contact area during the welding process. Several studies also showed 
that the strength of resistance spot welded joints can be correlated to the diameter of the weld 
nuggets. When the welding current is increased, the nugget diameter increases and thus the weld 
strength increases. However, after exceeding a critical current value, the nugget diameter 
decreases because of the excessive metal melting and expulsing in the interlayer [7,8]. 
Nugget formation and development depend on the energy generation, and can be characterized by 
the trends in the electrode displacement and dynamic resistance signals [9,10]. Practically, the 
measurement of these process parameters has proven to be the effective methods for quality 
control in LSRSW. However, MSRSW has received less attention, the major reason being the 
process parameters that are used in monitoring and control are very small in magnitude. 
Since the RSW process is very fast, moreover, it involves a complicated interaction of mechanical, 
electrical, thermal and metallurgical phenomena, the characteristics of nugget growth is difficult to 
obtain from the experimental methods. Numerical modeling has been considered as an effective 
tool in understanding the RSW process in quantitative details [11-13]. The purpose of present study 
aims to investigate the characteristics of MSRSW of the AISI301 stainless steel foil. A DC type 
resistance spot welding machine, equipped with the PC-based monitoring system, was employed to 
perform the welding process. In order to offer deeper insight into the MSRSW process, a fully 
  
6
force, E is the Young’s modulus, α is the coefficient of thermal expansion and Td is the amount of 
temperature changed. 
Since the resistance spot welding set-up can be assumed as an axisymmetric problem, only one 
half of the model is considered. Using the commercialized software, ANSYS, a two-dimensional 
fully coupled thermal-electrical-mechanical model was developed to investigate the formation of 
nugget. The schematic diagram of the computational procedure is shown in Figure 1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  Schematic diagram of the computational procedure. 
 
The material used in this study was AISI301 stainless steel with the thickness of 0.1 mm, and the 
diameter of electrode tip was 1.2 mm. Table 1 shows parts of the material properties at the room 
temperature. A typical finite element mesh of the electrode-sheet assembly with boundary 
conditions is shown in Figure 2. There were 920 elements in this case, surface-to-surface contact 
elements were specially treated in each interface area and isoparametric solid elements used 
elsewhere in the model. In addition, the welding current and the electrode pressure used for this 
simulation are presented in Table 2. 
 
Table 1 
Mechanical Properties of AISI301 Stainless Steel 
Young’s modulus 
(GPa) 
Density 
(Kg/m3) Poisson’s ratio 
193 7860 0.25 
                             
Table 2 
 Welding 
Parameters 
Electrode pressure 
(MPa) 
Welding current 
(A) 
Welding time 
(ms) 
1, 3.3, 4, 5, 6 250, 270, 300, 320, 350 50,100,150 
Electrical Field 
Thermal History 
Deformation 
Size & Form of Nugget 
Electrode Displacement 
2-D Fully Coupled FE Model
Mechanical Analysis
Electrical-Thermal Analysis Thermal-Mechanical Analysis 
  
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3  Dimensions of the specimen. 
 
The spot welding machine was equipped with a monitoring system; two process parameters of 
dynamic resistance and electrode displacement were extracted to correlate the final nugget size. 
This system can automatically retrieve the current, voltage, dynamic resistance and electrode 
displacement at every time step during the welding process. Its maximum available welding current 
was 400 amperes. The electrode force was controlled using an electromagnetic motor, and the 
upper electrode displacement was measured using an optical sensor. For accuracy, a PC with 
MATLAB program was employed to manage all of the welding and process parameters. The 
welding machine assembly is shown in Figure 4. 
 
 
Figure 4  Resistance spot welding machine. 
 
The welding parameters used for this experiment were identical to those for simulation. In each 
welding condition, three samples were used for reliable analysis. Finally, the cross-sections of 
samples were characterized with an optical microscope, and nugget measurements were made 
from the resulting micrographs. Moreover, nugget sizes obtained from experiment were compared 
systematically with the predicted results.  
 
4 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
4.1 Contact Pressure Distribution 
0.1mm 
  
10
4.3 Effect of Welding Parameters on Electrode Displacement 
 
The electrode displacement due to the interaction between expansion of materials and the clamping 
of machine load is related directly with nugget formation, a too high expansion rate could result in a 
splashing while a low rate in an undersize weld. While the electric current is applied, the electrode 
displacement continues to increase as the result of thermal expansion of workpieces. Then, it 
reduces gradually during the cooling stage when the welding current is switched off. The shape of 
electrode displacement curve, consequently, depends on the material properties such as thermal 
conductivity and hot strength. Figure 7 shows the typical electrode displacement curves extracted 
from this study. 
Effects of welding current and electrode force on the maximum electrode displacement are shown 
in Figure 8. The electrode displacement increases with the increases of current and electrode 
pressure. Results obtained from numerical analysis are consistent with the monitored readings. In 
resistance spot welding, it is well known that the higher the welding current and welding time, the 
higher the heat energy will be produced. The diameter of the electrode, which makes contact with 
the workpiece will determine the density of electric current. On the other hand, the amount of 
applied electrode load also affects the contact resistance and thus the heat generation at the 
interface, and the displacement of upper electrode. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Figure 7  Typical electrode displacement curves.   Figure 8  Variation of electrode displacement 
with welding current and electrode pressure. 
 
4.4 Relationship of Electrode Displacement and Nugget Size 
 
Maximum electrode displacement (Smax) is one of the important process variables since it has been 
commonly monitored in RSW process. In the previous work, two process parameters of the 
maximum electrodes displacement and minimum dynamic resistance have been proved to correlate 
well with the weld shear strength.  
240 260 280 300 320 340 360
Welding current (A)
0.010
0.015
0.020
0.025
M
ax
im
um
 e
le
ct
ro
de
 d
is
pl
ac
em
en
t (
m
m
) Simulation         Experimemt
    P=1    (MPa)      P=1    (MPa)
    P=3.3 (MPa)      P=3.3 (MPa)
    P=5    (MPa)      P=5    (MPa)
0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12
Welding time (s)
0.000
0.004
0.008
0.012
0.016
0.020
El
ec
tro
de
 d
is
pl
ac
em
en
t (
m
m
)
P=3.3 MPa
     I=250 A
     I=300 A
     I=350 A
  
12
    
Figure 11  Typical microstructure photograph of the nugget ( P = 3.3 MPa, I =250 A). 
 
4.5 Relationship of Dynamic Resistance and Nugget Size  
 
The factors influencing dynamic resistance are the applied electrode force, surface condition at the 
interface of the sheets, welding time, thickness of sheets, and material being welded. Among these 
factors, the applied electrode force and materials with its surface conditions play the key roles for 
the dynamic resistance. In the numerical analysis, electrical conductivities used at the 
electrode/sheet and faying interfaces are extracted from the monitored dynamic resistance, and 
given as a function of electrode pressure and temperature.  
A typical dynamic resistance curve is shown in Figure 12. It represents the total electrical resistance 
in the secondary circuit. The dynamic resistance starts to decrease rapidly due to the collapse of 
faying surface asperities. Then, an opposite effect of rising temperature results in increasing the 
bulk resistance and thus dynamic resistance. While it reaches a peak value, the competing effects 
of increasing softened material and an increase in contact area cause the resistance to decrease 
continuously. After the formation of the nugget at the faying surface, the dynamic resistance 
increases again. 
 
Figure 12  Typical dynamic resistance curve. 
