以分解狀態空間的方式研究生產庫存系統中需求回應時間的機率分佈
The study of the probability distribution of the response time in the
production-inventory system via decomposing the state space
摘要
在本計劃中，我們考慮一個典型生產庫存系統之等候線系統的分析。該系統
必須生產滿足一般需求之標準規格產品以及特殊規格之客製化產品。我們考慮客
製化產品可由庫存區之標準產品稍作加工而成。例如筆記型電腦，某些客製化筆
記型電腦可由庫存之標準規格之筆記型電腦再經由增加記憶體、加入藍芽通訊設
備或更改作業系統等而成。該生產庫存系統包含生產標準規格產品之生產線、存
放標準規格產品之庫存區以及生產特殊規格產品之後續生產線。 對於標準規格
產品之生產我們採取庫存生產的方式(Make to Stock, MTS)生產但保持庫存量在
一定的水平(Base-stock Policy)。 對於特殊規格產品之生產我們則採取接單生產
的方式(Make to Order, MTO)。 生產標準規格產品之生產系統為一多站流線生產
線。該產線除了最後一站外，其他各站亦皆為以零庫存生產的工作站。
在此系統，一般需求到達時庫存區有貨可供給之機率(Fill rate)與特殊需求在
一定時間內可滿足之機率(On-Time-Delivery-Rate, OTDR)為重要的指標。 我們稱
特殊需求到達至取到貨的等候時間為回應時間(response time)。 本計劃之主要目
的是估計回應時間的機率分佈。 由於分析等候時間的複雜性，我們以 PASTA 的
性質估計分佈: 我們先以研究兩站的系統為出發點。我們發現重要的定理，定理
一。定理一主要是描寫出多個重要等候線之間之關係，使我們可利用觀察兩個量
即可監控整個系統。 我們以分解狀態空間的方式在分解的各個子空間上歸納出
估計的等候時間隨機變數。 這些結果對我們更進一步研究多站(Multi-stage)生產
庫存系統很有幫助。我們將相關的結果推展至我們的目標生產庫存系統，其中生
產標準規格產品之生產線為一多站流線生產線。 我們的估計有不錯的成效且與
以往研究的結果更為實際與更具可行性。
關鍵字: 等候線系統, 生產系統, 庫存系統, 等候時間機率分佈
Abstract
In this project, we consider a production-inventory system consisting of the
production of the standard products, the warehouse to accommodate the inventory of
the standard products and the production for the custom product. We assume custom
products can be made by applying some addition works on the standard ones to fulfill
the corresponding special demands. Standard products are made for the ordinary
demands which should be satisfied immediately. Make-to-stock production is applied
to produce the standard products and inventory is controlled by the base-stock policy.
Standard products also serve as semi-finished products to the custom products, which
should be satisfied within a lead time. When a special demand arrives, it will take
one standard product from the warehouse if there is an one, otherwise, it will wait for
the next available standard product on the first-come first-served basis. In this project,
the base-stock policy. Therefore, every satisfied ordinary order will send a production
order to trigger the production of a new standard product. Standard products also
serve as semi-finished products to the custom product, which should be satisfied
within a lead time. When a special demand arrives, it will take one standard product
from the warehouse if there is an one, otherwise, it will wait for the next available
standard product on the first-come first-served basis. Since base-stock policy is used,
every arriving special demand will also trigger the production of a new standard
product. In summary, the production for the new standard product triggered by
satisfied ordinary or arriving special demands follows the first-come first-serve basis.
in this project, we will look at the joint steady-state distribution of the corresponding
queues and use the PASTA property. Our system is similar to the typical system
studied by Aghezza and Landeghem[1]. However, for the two single station case, the
underlying model is the same as the system studied Chang and Lu[4].Starting from
the two-station system, we decompose the state space into subspaces to summarize
the response time random variables in each subspace as done in Chang, Lu and Ku[3].
Since in practical case such as computer assembly, the production for the standard
products has comparatively more stages then the follow-up production for the custom
product, In this project, we also extend the system studied in Chang and Lu[4] to a
multi-stage MTS production for the standard products.
2. Two-station system
There are two stations, station 1 and station 2. We denote the workstation for the
production of the standard product station 1 and the workstation for the production of
additional work for custom product station 2. There are five queues in our inventory
system: outstanding special demands waiting for the custom products, the backorder
from special demands for the standard products, production orders for the new
standard product, the standard products in inventory and orders waiting for the
additional works at station 2. However, the sum of the number backorder from special
demands for the standard products and orders waiting for the additional works is
equal to the number of outstanding special demands waiting for the custom products.
Let 1B be the number of production orders for the new standard product; 2B be the
number of the backorder from special demands for the standard products; 1N be the
number of the standard products in inventory and 2N be the number of orders
waiting for the additional works or under processing. Note that only one of 1N and
2B can be positive. Without any confusion, we also use the above notations to denote
the corresponding queues. The corresponding queueing system is depicted in Fig. 1.
The system can also be described by a two-dimensional Markov process with
states ).( nm , where m is the number of total standard products in system which
consisting of the standard products in inventory and the standard products waiting for
are those made for the mn special demands right ahead of D . Therefore the
response time of D will be the total processing time of 1n station 2 processes.
We can further relax the comparison on the processing time of 1mn station 1
processes with the processing time of m station 2 processes. We compare the
processing time of 1mn station 1 processes with the processing time of n station
2 processes. If the 1mn station 1 processes are completed before the n station 2
processes, it means that the finished standard products can arrive at station 2 in time
so that station 2 can process 1n custom products consecutively before D being
satisfied, then the response time of D will also be the total processing time of 1n
station 2 processes. Let kX be the sum of k station 1 processing times and kY be the
sum of k station 2 processing times. Let R represent the response time of a special
demand. In summary, if nmn YX  1 , then 1 nYR . Note that the case nmn YX  1 may
occur when n and m are close.
If nmn YX  1 , we can assume all the n station 2 processes are completed before
the standard product made for D being already made, which is the last one of the
newly finished 1mn standard products. Therefore, R is equal to 11 YX mn  .
Note that this may happen when n is sufficiently larger than m .
We summarize of our approximation as follows: when D arrives and sees
 nm, , where mn , then 1YYR n  if n and m are close; 11 YXR mn   if n
is larger enough than m .( See Table 1)
To this end, we should distinguish the corresponding states of the above two
cases in more details. We consider to distinguish these two cases by comparing the
mean values of 1mnX and nY as follows. When n and m satisfy
 
12
1
1
1

 mnn , then we approximate 1YYR n  , otherwise, we
approximate 11 YXR mn   . Since in our system, we assume that station 2
processing is shorter than the station 1 processing, we assume that 22 11  k
for some 1k . When  
12
1
1
1

 mnn , it is equivalent to saying that
11 



k
k
m
k
k
n
which is that
11 



k
k
m
k
k
n
In summary, for state  nm, seen by D that   11  kkmkkn ,
1YYR n  ; for state  nm, that   11  kkmkkn , 11 YXR mn   .
We can have a approximated distribution of R as follow.
             



 




 
1
1
1
0
1
0
1111 ,,,
S
m
m
n
M
Sm
m
Smn n
nnn noPuYXPnmPuYPnmPuYPuRP
demands and we may assume the arrival rate is 1K . If mn is significantly greater
than 0, since there are many outstanding orders in 2B , this means the production
orders in production system are most triggered by special demands and we may
assume the arrival rate of those orders/jobs in production system is 1K . From [2],
the sojourn time for a tandem queue can be approximated by the phase type
distribution  QCPH , where ijqQ is a KK matrix with  iiiq 1, and
  iiiq . Denote the random variable 1X be the random variable of
distribution  QCPH , with 1 KK  ; Denote the random variable 2X be
the random variable of distribution  QCPH , with K . The corresponding
steady state probability are also denote by  KK nnnP ,...,, 211 and  KK nnnP ,...,, 212 ,
respectively. Let ilX be the sum of l iid random variables with distribution iX . By
the similar analysis, the response time when n and m are close can be
approximated by 11 YYn  and when mn is large can be approximated
by 12 1 YX mn  . In summary, suppose a special demand D arrives and it sees
state nm, . We have the following decomposition of the states, the corresponding
response and the corresponding arrival rate to the production system described in
Table 2.
Note that if SnmS  , then nN 2 ; if SnmS  , then mN 2 . Also
Note that KnnnnmS  21 . In this study, we assume that the steady state
probability of the production system and the steady state probability of the
station 1K , which can be regarded as an M/M/1 system, are independent. Define
 1KK nP be the steady state probability of the station for the additional work.
Then the distribution of the response time, R , can be approximated as follows.
)(),...,,()()( 121
1
1
21
nPnnnPtYYPtRP K
Snnn
KKn
nK


  
)(),...,,()( 1
,
21
1
1
0,21
mPnnnPtYYP K
Snnn
KKn
mnmK

 
  
)(),...,,()( 1
,
21
1
1
0,21
mPnnnPtYYP K
Snnn
KKn
mnmK

 
  
)(),...,,()( 1
,
21
2
1
2
1
21
mPnnnPtYXP K
Snnn
KKn
mnK




   (2)
We further decompose the state space in more details. To classify (b) and (c) in
Table 2, we determine them whether if Sm . Note that m is the number of orders
waiting in 2N . Therefore, if Sm , it means that the number of orders is less than or
equal to the base stock level S and, hence, before D arrives, both ordinary and
special demands can enter the system. On the other hand, if the number of orders is
greater than the base stock level S , it means that the production system has been filled
by the special demands for a while. To classify (a) and (d) in Table 2, following the
similar analysis for the two-station system: for state ),( nm , we use whether
  )111(11
211 KK
mnn



. (3)
And ),( nm is in case (a) if and only if it satisfies (4) , which is equivalent to
)
111
)(1()
1111
(
21121 KKK
mn



.
We summarized the decomposition of states space in Table 3. Based on the
F
F
Fig. 1 Two-station production-inventory system
Fig.2. Multi-stage standard product production
Fig. 3. )1( K -station system
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報
告  
 
99年10月24日 
報告人姓名 張國華 服務機構 
及職稱 
中原大學工業與系
統工程系教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
 
99年7月24日至99年7月
26日 
中國大陸  北京市 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
計畫編號           
NSC 98-2221-E-033-037 
	 
會議 
名稱 
(英文) The 5th International Conference on Queueing Theory and Network 
Applications(QTNA2010)  
(中文) 第五屆等候線理論與網路應用國際研討會 
 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 
(英文) Analysis of tandem queues with end buffer: a phase-type 
      distribution approach 
(中文) 擁有庫存區串聯等候線系統之分析:使用階段型分佈之方法 
 
	 
	 
一、 參加會議經過	 
本人於 7月23日自台灣直飛往北京，於當日晚間到達。於次日隨即參加會議。本人論
文發表安排在7月26日下午，於7月27日中午搭機返台。 
二、 與會心得	 
此次會議是在北京交通大學舉行並由該校數學系主辦，燕山大學、數學科學研究院與
國家自然科學基金會協辦。 
QTNA已舉行第五屆， 前三次分別於日本神戶、台灣中研院與新加坡Institute for Infocom 
Research舉辦， 筆者皆有參加。 該會議原屬於中小型之國際會議。 但此次以成為中大
型之國際會議。 與會者由台灣、 韓國、 日本的學者，另有大陸、 美國、歐洲 與中亞
學者參加本屆之會議。此次會議也邀請多位知名國際學者給予Plenary 專題演講	 計有
“Performance Optimization of Queueing Systems” 
Analysis of tandem queues with end buffer: a phase-type
distribution approach
Kuo-Hwa Chang
∗
Chung Yuan Christian University
200 Chung-Pei Rd.
Chung-Li 320 Taiwan
kuohwa@cycu.edu.tw
Yang-Shu Lu
Chung Yuan Christian University
200 Chung-Pei Rd.
Chung-Li 320 Taiwan
g9402404@cycu.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
We consider a tandem queues with buffer after the end node
with no-wait customers. Taking the production system as
an example, we consider a production line in which no-wait
demands placed by the contracted customers that have to
be satisfied immediately. In order to satisfy the no-wait
demands, we need prepare some finished goods at the end
buffer for them and we may also adopt the pull production
policy, i.e., we start to produce a new product only when a
customer arrives.
The exact analysis for the tandem queues is restricted to
some simple tandem queues. The alternative attempts for
analyzing a tandem queueing system include the simulation
and approximation methods. One of the approximations is
to use phases to describe the stations of the system and use
phase-type distribution to approximate the waiting time in
system. Based on the relation between continuous phase-
type distribution and discrete phase-type distribution, the
number of Poisson arrivals arrive during this time can also
be obtained. In this study, we present the exact analysis
for such system and also use the phase-type distribution
to approximate the steady-state probabilities. Results of
our phase-type distribution approximation are close to those
from exactly analysis. Our phase-type distribution approx-
imations will be the ground-stone for the future study for
the system with multiple classes of no-wait customers and
general customers of which exact analysis is impossible.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
G.3 [Mathematics of Computing]: Probability And Statis-
tics—Markov processes, queueing theory, stochastic processes
General Terms
Performance
1. INTRODUCTION
In a tandem queues, an arrival has go through all the sta-
tion from the first to the last to have his service done. In
such queueing system the departure process from one sta-
tion forms the arrival process to the next station. We use
tandem queues to model flow-line production system, clin-
ical physical exam, computer communication for packages
or loan approval process in a bank and et al. There also
come with different variants of classical tandem queue seen
∗Corresponding author.
in the real-world. For example, in the loan approval process
or similar approval process such as credit card application
approval process, batch processing are considered; For the
physical exam, patients may be lead to next available check-
out station; in communication system, some packages may
be lost during the communications due to the lack of band-
width; in the flow-line production system, there may have
some safety stock initially put at the end of the line.
The exact analysis are restricted to some simplest tandem
queues system. Taking a two-station tandem queues as an
example, till now, we still cannot derive the exact probability
distribution function (p.d.f.) of waiting time in system at
the second queue unless the arrival and service process at
the first queue are exponential. The difficulty for analyzing
the classical tandem queues lies mainly on the fact that the
departure process from the first station is a Poisson process
only if the first queue is an M/M/1 system.
Numerous approximation methods have been proposed for
analyzing tandem queues. Jun and Perros [7] classified the
approximation procedures that have been developed for tan-
dem queueing systems into two categories: decomposition of
individual queues and analysis of successive pairs of adjacent
queues. For the decomposition, the tandem queueing sys-
tem is decomposed into individual queues with modified ser-
vice time and with Poisson arrival process. Each station is
then analyzed individually by using approximate solutions.
Hillier and Boling[5] developed an approximation method
for analyzing a tandem queue with multiple servers. Altiok
and Perros[1] developed an approximation algorithm which
assumes a finite or infinite first station and blocking-after-
service station. The approximation revised arrival and ser-
vice rates and buffer capacities. Takahashi, Miyahara and
Hasegawa [11] considered an open restricted tandem queue
with exponential inter-arrival and service times, in which
service rates are modified. Kerbache and Smith[6] consid-
ered a general decomposition technique to analyze a tandem
queue with general service times. Brandwajn and Jow[2]
developed an approximation algorithm assuming blocking-
before-service or blocking-after-service implementation.
One important variant from the classical tandem queues is
that there is an end buffer(called inventory) located after
the end station. In such system, an arriving customer will
obtain/take her service/product from inventory and, at the
same time, a request for the production of a new finished
good will be sent to all the stations. As we can see, this sys-
Let p(t) = (p1(t), p2(t), · · · , pn(t)) and
p′(t) = (p′1(t), p
′
2(t), · · · , p′n(t)), then
p
′
(t) = p(t)Q.
Furthermore,
p(t) = p(0) · eQt.
Consider state space S = {1, 2, · · · , n, n + 1}, where state
n + 1 is an absorbing state. Let Q be the matrix defined
above containing the transition rates of states 1, 2, ..., n, then
the corresponding
∑n
i=1 pi(t) becomes the probability that
the time to absorbing, denoted by L, is greater than or equal
to time t given some initial condition p(0). Therefore,
P (L < t) = 1− p(0)eQt · e,
where e is a column of 1’s. In this case, we say that L
has continuous phase type distribution CPH(α,Q), where
α = p(0). During time L, the number of Poisson arrivals
with rate λ arrive to the system, denoted by K, is then has a
discrete phase type distribution(see Neuts[9] ), DPH(pi,P),
where pi = αP and P = λ(λI − Q)−1 and I is an identity
matrix. Note that
P (L > t) = αeQt · e
P (K > k) = piPk · e.
Considering general customers who can wait for the finished
goods, Lee and Zipkin[8] assumed each queueing system at
each stations are independent M/M/1 queues with arrival
rate λ and service rate µj , respectively. They approximated
the waiting time in system as the sum of the waiting time in
system at every station. Note that at station j, the waiting
time in system is exponentially distributed with rate µj−λ.
Let RJ be the waiting time in system of a customer arriving
at station J . It can be shown that KJ can be regarded as
the number of the customers arrive in RJ . Define
Cj =

−v1 v1
−v2 v2
. . .
−vj−1 vj−1
−vj

j×j
, j = 1, ..., J,
where vj = (µj −λ). RJ has the continuous phase-type dis-
tribution CPH(γJ(PJ)
SJ ,CJ) and KJ has a discrete phase-
type distribution with parameters (piJ ,PJ), which means
that
P (KJ > k) = piJP
k
Je, k ≥ 0,
where PJ = λ(λI−CJ)−1; γJ = [1, 0, ...0] and piJ = γJPJ .
Let q0 be the probability that there are no finished goods
in IJ . That is, the fill rate 1 − q0 = P (KJ < SJ). For our
system with only no-wait customers, let λe be the effective
arrival rates and, by PASTA property, λe = λ(1−q′0), where
q′0 is the probability that there are no finished goods in IJ in
a no-wait system. To approximate λe, we recursively obtain
λe under the updated q0 as follows.
1. Initial step. Let λ0 = λ. We obtain q00 = P (KJ ≥ SJ−1)
under λ0. Let λ1e = λ(1− q00).
2. Recursive step n. Let λne = λ(1−qn−10 ). We obtain qn0 =
P (KJ ≥ SJ − 1) under λne . Let λ(n+1)e = λ(1− qn0 ).
We stop if λne converges.
We can further solve λe by solving a fixed-point problem:
λe = λ(1− q0), (2)
where q0 = P (KJ ≥ SJ − 1) under λe. Note that P (K >
k) = piJP
k · e and PJ = λ(λI − CJ)−1. It can be shown
that
(λI−CJ)−1 =

1
µ1
∏1
j=1(µj−λ)∏2
j=1 µj
· · ·
∏J−1
j=1 (µj−λ)∏J
j=1 µj
1
µ2
· · ·
∏J−1
j=2 (µj−λ)∏J
j=2 µj
. . .
∏J−1
j=J−1(µj−λ)∏J
j=J−1 µj
1
µJ

J×J
and
q0 = λ
SJ 1
µSJ1
+ λSJ
J−1∑
j=1
j∏
k=1
(µk − λn)
×
 ∑∑j+1
l=1
ωl=SJ+j,1≤ωl≤SJ ,l=0,1,...,J−1
1∏j+1
l=1 µ
ωl
l
(3)
3. NUMERICAL RESULTS
We compare our approximation of effective arrival rates with
those obtained from exact analysis. We first compare them
for the systems with the same service rates on various num-
ber of stations(up to four stations) in Table 1. The data
in column ”Exact” represent the exact effective arrival rates
and those in column ”App.” represent the approximation re-
sults. The relative errors are listed in column ”%Err.” in
which the numbers in brackets indicate negative errors. We
further compare them with the systems of different service
rates in Table 2. Our approximations underestimate the ex-
act results and there is one outlier with error 11% in Table
1, however, most of the relative errors are small and in the
reasonable range(within around 6%). As we can see that the
errors have no apparent trends on the number of stations or
the value of SJ , however, the errors may become larger when
the numbers of stations and SJ are large.
4. CONCLUSIONS
We consider a tandem queue with end buffer at the end
station and with no-wait customers. We propose a phase-
type distribution approximation to obtain the effective ar-
rival rate and the fill rate. Numerical results show that
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
