recorded using a pectrophotometer at 570 nm using 
gelatin at various known concentrations as standard. 
The amount of free amino groups in the residual 
gelatin, after heating with ninhydrin, is proportional 
to the optical absorbance of the solution. The 
cross-linking degree of GGCs was then determined . 
Biocompatibility of GGCs 
Six adult Sprague-Dawley rats, weighing 
approximately 280-350 g were used to evaluate the 
biocompatibility of GGCs. For the insertion of the 
implants, incisions (0.5 cm in length) were made and 
GGCs with different cross-linking degrees were 
implanted subcutaneously on both sides of the rats. 
Each rat received 6 implants, which were removed 
upon sacrifice at various time points: 1 week, 4 
weeks, and 8 weeks. The implants were then 
removed for histological evaluation. For 
histomorphometric evaluation, sections were stained 
with hematoxylin and eosin. The tissue reactions to 
the implants in the subcutaneous tissue were 
evaluated for uniformity and thickness of the foreign 
body capsule as well as the inflammation responses 
under optical microscopy 
GGCs implantation 
Thirty adult Sprague-Dawley rats underwent 
placement of GGCs with the three different 
cross-linking degrees were divided into 3 groups, 
which were removed upon sacrifice at 8 weeks. For 
each group, 10 rats were operated on. The animals 
were anesthetized with an inhalational anesthetic 
technique. Following the skin incision, fascia and 
muscle groups were separated using blunt dissection, 
and the right sciatic nerve was severed into proximal 
and distal segments. The proximal stump was then 
secured with a single 9-0 nylon suture through the 
epineurium and the outer wall of the GGCs (1.96 
mm ID). The distal stump was secured similarly into 
the other end of the chamber. Both the proximal and 
distal stumps were secured to a depth of 2.5 mm into 
the chamber, leaving a 10-mm gap between the 
stumps. The muscle layer was re-approximated with 
4-0 chromic gut sutures, and the skin was closed 
with 2-0 silk sutures.  
 
Results 
Physical characteristics of GGCs 
The cross-linking index of GGCs, expressed as 
a percentage of free amino groups lost during 
cross-linking, was 24±7%, 36±3%, and 51±7% for 
groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively.  
Biocompatibility of GGCs 
At 1 week post-implantation, GGCs in all the 
three groups persisted maintaining their lumens and 
wall integrity. A delicate and thin fibrous tissue 
capsule was present surrounding the whole implant. 
However, the nerve guide group 1 became soft and 
had a more reactive inflammation cell infiltration as 
compared to those in groups 2 and 3. Specifically, 
abundant small round-shaped cells, i.e. monocytes 
and neutrophils aggregated at the interfaces between 
the materials and their surrounding tissues 
(Fig.1(A)). At the time point of 4 weeks, fibrous 
tissue capsules became thicker with a compact 
structure along with active neovascularization. Up to 
this time, the inflammatory reaction decreased 
remarkably (Fig. 1(B)). At 8 weeks, a chronic 
inflammation reaction was noted with macrophages 
and giant cells phagocytizing degraded parts at the 
edges of GGCs (Fig. 1(C)). 
 
Fig.1(A) 
