2retrieval method based on RS-string. It can solve the
problem that two similar pictures may be misjudged as
dissimilar or two dissimilar pictures may be misjudged
as similar. And it can find the ignore pictures which
are similar with query picture in previous similarity
retrieval method. By this new method can provide
more precise and efficient to query.
Keywords ： RS-string, similarity retrieval, spatial
knowledge representation
二、緣由與目的
Spatial knowledge representations abstract a
picture’s characteristics and store them in the database.
The system retrieves the corresponding database
pictures using this information. Hence, spatial
similarity retrieval methods are important for image
information systems. A spatial similarity retrieval
method must efficiently search for database pictures
which look similar to a user's specified query picture.
Many iconic indexing approaches, such as 2D string
(Chang et al.) [1], 2D G-string (Jungert and Chang et
al.) [2], and 2D C-string (Lee and Hsu) [3], have been
proposed to represent symbolic pictures and capture
pictures from an image database.
The content of a string in previous 2D string
representations depends mainly on the orientation of
its input picture. Hence, the strings and binary spatial
relationships among objects in a picture are
significantly different from the rotated picture. If two
pictures are the same except for their orientations, they
are still judged to be dissimilar. This similarity
retrieval deficiency occurs in those string
representations based on the Cartesian coordinate
system.
To solve this problem, Petraglia proposed a 2D
R-string representation based on polar coordinates
[4,5,6]. A 2D R-string of an image is rotation-invariant
with its rotation center. In other words, if an image is
rotated with its rotation center, that 2D R-string
representation for the rotated image remains the same.
Unfortunately, the rotation center object is always
missing from a picture's 2D R-string. Thus, the 2D
R-string loses information about the spatial
relationships between the rotation center object and
other objects.
Later, Hung and Jean proposed the RS-string
approach [7] to overcome the disadvantages of 2D
R-string representation. An RS-string is ordered pair
of R-string and S-string. An R-string (or an S-string) is
a representation in ring- direction (sector- direction).
The RS-string retains the desired rotation-invariant
property since it is based on the polar coordinate
system. Additionally, the RS-string has the same
representation structure as 2D C-string. Their
RS-string-based similarity retrieval method called
“SRRS” herein, is introduced in section 2. 
SRRS has two significant flaws. First, SRRS does
not consider likely cases when a query picture does
not contain the center object of a database picture. The
center object in the query picture depends on the
center object in the database picture. Hence, a query
picture has no center object, and therefore the
corresponding RS-string can not be created.
Additionally, SRRS disregards the decision problem
of the begin object which is the first object the
half–line meets with rotation-invariant property. The
begin object is not flexible since the half-line initial
position is fixed in a query picture. If a query picture
and a database picture have different begin objects,
then their similarity reasoning is not identical, and
miss many similar database pictures while searching.
We want to propose a new RS-string-based similarity
retrieval method to enhance SRRS. The method is
expected more completely than SRRS after adding a
pseudo center object and a flexible begin object.
Moreover, retrieving pictures from an image database
are more flexible using the proposed method than
under SRRS.
4Algorithm: Similarity Retrieval
Input: A query picture fq and sequence of RS-strings
representing the database pictures.
Output: A Category_Similar_List and Spatial
_Similar_List
Step 1 . For each RS-string representing a database
picture fd
If Ofq Ofd
(a) Derive all binary spatial relations Rfd
rc in the
ring-direction and Rfd
sc in the sector-direction
using the Ring- and Sector-Direction Spatial
Reasoning algorithms. Derive spatial relation
category Cfd from Rfd
rc and Rfd
sc.
(b) Obtain Ofd
c and Ofd
b from the first and second
objects of fd’s s-string, respectively. Using the
above the information to find the Ofq
c and Ofq
b in
fq by following case-statement:
Case：
1: Ofd
cOfq and OfdbOfq :
Let Ofq
c = Ofd
c and Ofq
b = Ofd
b .
2: Ofd
cOfq and OfdbOfq :
Let Ofq
c = Ofd
c and scan the fd’s s-string
from the left to right to find the first
object symbol exactly in fq. That object
is regarded as the Ofq
b
3: Ofd
cOfq and OfdbOfq :
Set a pseudo object in the center of the fq.
This pseudo object is the same as Ofd
c in
fd, and is labeled Ofq
c . Additionally, Ofq
b
= Ofd
b .
4: Ofd
cOfq and OfdbOfq :
Set a pseudo object in the center of the
fq . This pseudo object is the same as the
Ofd
c in fd and is labeled Ofq
c . Scan the
fd’s s-string from the left to right to find
the first object symbol precisely in fq.
That object is Ofq
b.
Endcase
For the Ofq
c and Ofq
b in the query picture fq, form the
corresponding RS-string.
(c) (i) If fq contains no pseudo object, then derive
all binary spatial relations Rfq
rc and Rfq
sc by
applying Spatial Reasoning algorithm to
the above selected string.
else derive all binary spatial relations R’fqrc
and R’fqsc by the Spatial Reasoning
algorithm and derive the binary spatial
relations Rfq
rc and Rfq
sc without the
pseudo objects fromR’fqrc andR’fqsc.
(ii) Derive category spatial relations Cfq
from Rfq
rc and Rfq
sc.
(d) If fd is category-similar to fq then
(i) add fd to Category_Similar_List.
(ii) if fd is spatial-similar to fq then add fd to
Spatial_Similar_List.
Step 2. Return Spatial_Similar_List and
Category_Simi-lar_List.
RS-string is one way of achieving
rotation-invariance. The SRRS does not address
situations when the query picture does not include the
center object in the database picture, and also ignores
the decision problem of the begin object in achieving
rotation-invariance. Hence, this work proposed a novel
similarity retrieval algorithm to solve the drawbacks of
SRRS. A pseudo center object is added to the query
picture on demand, and makes the begin object is
flexible. Therefore, a user can query many suitable
pictures in the database, and the rotation-invariant
similarity retrieval based on the RS-string is enhanced.
四、參考文獻
[ 1 ] S.K. Chang, Q.Y. Shi and C.W. Yan, Iconic
Indexing by 2D-strings, IEEE Transactions on
Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 9(3),
1987, 413-428.
[ 2 ] S.K. Chang, E. Jungert and Y.Li, Representation
and Retrieval of Symbolic Pictures using
Generalized 2D String, Technical Report,
University of Pittsburgh, 1998.
[ 3 ] S.Y. Lee and F.J. Hsu, 2D C-string: A New
Spatial Knowledge Representation for Image
Datebase Systems, Pattern Recognition, 23(10),
1990, 1077-1088.
[ 4 ] G. Petraglia, M. Sebillo, M. Tucci, and G.
Tortora, Towards Normalized Iconic Indexing,
Proc. 1993 IEEE Symp. Visual Language, 1993,
392-394.
[ 5 ] G. Petraglia, M. Sebillo, M. Tucci, and G.
Tortora, Rotation Invariant Iconic Indexing for
Image Database Retrieval, Progress in Image
Analysis and Processing, S. Impedovo, ed.,
271-278, World Scientific, (1994).
[ 6 ] G. Petraglia, M. Sebillo, M. Tucci, and G.
Tortora, Senior Member, Virtual Images for
Similarity Retrieval in Image Databases, IEEE
