 2
Overview  
 
 In our NSC-funded research program we focus on the investigation of ultrafast 
structural dynamics of nanostructured materials induced by femtosecond laser pulses.  
More specifically, we applied pump-probe techniques to detect transient changes in 
optical absorption or reflectivity of nanoparticles due to laser heating pulses. As these 
nanoparticles absorb photon energies from the laser pulses, fast heating of conduction 
electrons and subsequent heat transfer from hot electrons to lattice induce thermal 
stresses as impulsive forces acting upon the atoms inside the nanoparticles.  These two 
kinds of impulsive forces from heated electrons and phonons cause the whole 
nanoparticle to expand and to contract.  Such dynamic expansion and contraction result in 
small changes of the particle sizes and the dielectric constant which could be detected 
optically.  One major focus of our research is to investigate size and shape effects on the 
photoinduced coherent photon modes of metallic nanoparticles.  In our laboratory, we 
have synthesized gold and silver nanoparticles of various shapes and sizes, including 
nanospheres, nanoprisms, nanorods, nanocubes and nanodisks, etc. During the past year, 
thanks for the funding from NSC, we have carried out many studies of photoinduced 
thermo-mechanics of thin films, and in particular, multi-mode excitation of nanoprisms.  
These studies lead to five publications (one under review) during the last year. In addition 
to nanoparticles fabrication, pump-probe experimental measurements, we have also 
performed computer simulations of the acoustic vibrations of photoexcited nanoparticles.  
More recently, we have also started to work on the development of saturable absorbers 
which are recusing carbon nanotubes which allow wide excitation bandwidth and are less 
expensive than the conventional semiconductors.  The accomplishments of this research 
program on these subjects will be described in the following sections.   
 
List of related publications funded by this NSC grant:  
 
1. P. T. Tai, P. Yu and J. Tang, J. Phys. Chem. C 113, 15014 (2009), 
"Determination of the electronic Gruneisen parameter from the photo-excited 
coherent acoustic vibrational phonon modes and their laser fluence dependence".  
 
 4
been a subject to many researchers in basic and applied sciences with wide industrial 
applications.  Using a very short laser pulse, the impulsive thermal stresses caused by 
heated electrons and phonons in nanoparticles could induce periodical expansion and 
compression of the whole particle, known as photoacoustic effects or coherent phonon 
excitation.  In the transient absorption experiments, coherent acoustic phonon of metallic 
nanoparticles can be detected due to changes in volume through SPR effects which 
depend on particle sizes.  During the past year, using par of the NSC funding we had 
successfully built a single-color pump-probe setup to carry out transient 
absorption/reflectivity experiments  (Fig. 1) to investigate thermo-mechanics of metallic 
nanoparticles and their ultrafast structural changes.  Since the SPR depends on the shape 
and the size of a nanoparticle, the particle size that we can study is limited by our single-
color experimental setup.  Nevertheless, we have installed a regenerative amplifier in the 
laser system to provide 100 fs pulse with 1 mJ/pulse at 1 KHz.  Such a powerful laser 
output, through nonlinear optics effects, allows us to change optical wavelength for 
various experimental conditions. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Femtoscond pump-probe experiment setup to detict transient absorption of laser-
heated nanoparticles.  
 
According to our proposal, in the first phase we will utilize the supercontinuum 
technique [7] for the transient absorption experiments.  We allow the photon energy of 
pump pulse to be sufficiently higher for the inter-band transition of the materials to be 
investigated.  The spectrum of probing pulse can cover the visible light through the 
supercontinuum techniques.  Because the probing beam has a wide-ranged spectrum, we 
 6
Experimental data of nano-sized thin films, prisms, spheres, rods, disks and pyramids 
from transient optical absorption/reflectance measurements were analyzed based on a 
combined FPU-TTM model of Fermi-Pasta-Ulam model and two-temperature model.  
This work elucidates the structural dynamics induced by femtosecond laser heating, its 
size and shape effects on the period and phase of the excited acoustic phonon modes.  In 
our work we have systematically examined photoinduced acoustic waves by transient 
optical absorption studies of metal nanomaterials.  Experimental data of our own and 
those from others for six different shapes and various sizes of gold or silver composition 
were analyzed here.  From this Table one can draw a conclusion about the phase for the 
acoustic wave excitation. If the direction of expansion and contraction is along the 
direction of light propagation, the changes of transition absorption is best described by 
)()( 1 tztzN − . On the other hand, if the mode of acoustic wave is along the major 
dimension of nanoparticles with a large aspect ratio, such as rod, prism, pyramid and disk, 
the changes of transition absorption is best described by )(
.
)(
.
1 tztz N − .  We have also 
performed 2-D simulations for a prism and have found out that the phase for the acoustic 
phonon mode along the direction of an impulse and the phase for the other mode with 
sound wave propagating perpendicular to the impulse indeed have a 90-degree phase shift.  
The FPU-TTM model provides a better physical picture than the usual phenomenological 
model assuming a simple damped oscillator for the whole film or nanoparticle.  We have 
uncovered interesting phase shift for the photoinduced acoustic excitation for some 
shapes and modes. Such a distinctive phase shift might be related to how these modes 
coupled to SPR mode. Our model simulations offer reasonably good agreement to the 
observed nanoscale heat transfer and structural dynamics induced by femtosecond laser 
heating of nanosize thin films and prisms. The study of laser heating of metallic 
nanomaterials and the photoinduced coherent acoustic waves allows us to understand 
better laser heating of nanosize particles, the subsequent heat transfer from conduction 
electrons to lattice, electron-photon interactions, size-dependent optical absorption and 
photoacoustic excitation. The pump-probe experiments with transient optical absorption 
detection elucidate the geometric effects (sizes and shapes) on coherent phonons.  
 8
An impulsive hot-electron blast force could excite coherent acoustic modes in 
nanostructured metals.  Combining two-temperature model and Fermi-Pasta-Ulam lattice 
model, we treat coherent acoustic phonon excitation quantitatively.  Using the experiment 
data for gold and copper, we extract the electronic Grüneisen parameter from the initial 
phase shift of the oscillatory curves.  
 
 
Fig. 3. (a) Pump-probe data of a 50-nm gold film at different laser fluence and the fitted 
solid-line curves by the TTM-FPU model.  The simulation parameters are shown in Table 
1.  (b) The dependence of the initial phase on pump fluence.  The initial phase data 
represented by open circles with an error bar were determined by fitting the experimental 
curves to a damping sinusoid.  The dependence of the phase on pump fluence allows us to 
determine the electronic Grüneisen parameter.  
 
Here we use Guo’s experimental data [11] to study the acoustic phonon oscillations 
and the phase dependence on laser fluence.  The optical pump-probe data of a 50-nm Au 
film at different pump fluence is shown in the dot line of Fig. 3(a).  The data of initial 
peaks before 15 ps is not shown, because the very short time peak is related to the hot-
electron dynamics which is not considered in our model.  In addition, we reset the 
temporal zero point at the giant peak of the lowest pumping fluence.  Since the electrons 
are heated up to a maximum temperature within one hundred femtoseconds [12], the 
influence on initial phase resulting from accuracy of zero point is about one degree.  It is 
hard to distinguish the influence on the initial phase on such a signal to the noise ratio of 
experiment data.  The following damping sinusoidal patterns represent coherent acoustic 
vibrations.  It is obvious that the oscillations have a phase shift with several ps delay time 
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
 
 
ΔR
/R
 (a
.u
.)
Delay Time (ps)
 2.3 mJ/cm2
 3.2 mJ/cm2
 4.1 mJ/cm2
 5.0 mJ/cm2
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
240
260
280
 
 
In
iti
al
 P
ha
se
 (d
eg
re
e)
Pump fluence (mJ/cm2)
 γe=1.0
 γe=1.6
 γe=2.2
 Exp data
 10
agreement with their experiment observation.  These results validate our model analysis 
for coherent acoustic oscillations observed in two different metal films at several pump 
fluence settings. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Pump-probe data of a 40-nm 
copper thin film at different pump 
fluence and the fitted curves using 
the TTM-FPU model. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In summary, we have discussed several advantages of the full-scale FPU-TTM 
model over the phenomenological SHO model.  Although the commonly used SHO 
model is simpler in expression, how laser fluence, laser pulse duration and electron 
thermal conductivity affect σe(t) and σl(t) cannot be obtained automatically from the 
model itself.  The TTM-FPU model, however, provides a better quantitative description 
of metal laser-heating and a deeper physical insight into coherent acoustic wave 
excitation in metallic thin films.  The competing roles of the electron blast force and 
thermal stress of lattice depend on the pumping laser power, and the initial phase of 
coherent acoustic vibrations thus depends on the pump fluence.  We demonstrated in Fig. 
4(b) how the initial phase depends on γe, and such dependence allows us to extract such a 
value from the experiments.  In this work we illustrated a nonthermal equilibrium 
approach to measure γe unambiguously using optical pump-probe experiments. This 
approach should be also applicable to other metals or nano-size materials of different 
shapes. 
 
 
III. Multi-mode coherent phonon excitation of silver nanoprisms 
 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
 
 
ΔT
/T
 (a
.u
.)
Delay Time (ps)
 2.3 mJ/cm2
 1.84 mJ/cm2
 1.38 mJ/cm2
 0.92 mJ/cm2
 12
Z
1
32
4 5 6
7 8 9 10
1514131211
1
32
4 5 6
7 8 9 10
1514131211
(a) (b)
 
Fig. 5.  A schematic diagram showing a triangular plate on (1,1,1) plane of an fcc 
structure.  Each atom is connected to the nearest neighbors by springs.  The arrows 
indicate the direction of impulsive thermal stress.   
 
The effective direct and indirect forces are induced by changes in the electron and 
phonon temperatures, respectively.  Since the optical field directly heats up the electrons 
at the beginning, the initial hot electron distribution, which is the cause for the direct 
force, is controlled by the local optical field.  From the previously study [24-25], the 
sharp tip could enhance the localized field in the range of several tens of nanometer.  
Therefore, we expect the order of the magnitude for λ1 to be around the several tens of 
nanometer.  Afterward, the hot electrons rely on the ballistic motion and fast thermal 
diffusion to redistribute their energy to colder electrons elsewhere, and then these hot 
electrons transfer the heat to phonons.  Since the phonons are heated up indirectly by a 
laser heating pulse, the phonon temperature gradient, which induces the indirect force, is 
more uniform than the initial electron temperature distribution.  For a comparison with 
experiment results [4], we used λ1 = 40 nm for the direct force and λ2 =1 μm for the 
indirect force, and the electron-phonon energy transfer time constant of 2.79 ps.  
Considering a triangle with a bisector of 49.8 nm, the excitation acoustic oscillations 
shown in Fig. 6(a) correspond to a breathing-mode vibration involving the bisector.  The 
dot curve represents our simulation results, and the red line represents the fitted data 
using  
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ +×××+⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ +××× 2
2
1
1 T
t2 cosB
T
t2 cosA φπφπ                       (1) 
where A and B are the amplitude for different modes, T1 and T2 are the corresponding 
oscillation periods, and φ1 and φ2 are the corresponding initial phases.  To reduce the 
number of fitting parameters, we consider no damping in Eq. (2).  From the fits, we found 
 14
of impulsive forces, namely, FD and FI, representing the thermal stress from laser-heated 
electrons and lattice.  Using a specific example, we identified two planar phonon modes 
with a π/2 phase difference, representing a breathing mode and a totally symmetric mode.  
They correspond to standing waves related to the bisector height and half of the side 
length, respectively.  The simulation results agree well with the experimental observation 
[26], and this study allows us to elucidate the roles of FD and FI in the coherent phonon 
excitation, and to explain the origin of the observed π/2 phase difference between these 
two modes.  FD is found to play the major role for excitation of the second mode.  In 
contrast, both FD and FI contribute to the excitation of the first mode with nearly the same 
amplitude but opposite phase.  As illustrated in Fig. 6(a), the destructive interference 
cancels each other’s contribution to make the second mode appear more prominent.  We 
have found that the amplitude of the acoustic oscillations depends on the non-uniform 
distribution of the impulsive force FD.  If the force is more spatially uniform, the 
amplitude of the first mode decreases, and the amplitude for the second mode decreases 
even more rapidly.  Therefore, for a smaller triangular nanoplate or for a deeper force 
penetration, the excitation and detection of the second mode would become much 
difficult.   
 We do not believe that the temperature distribution within the laser-heated 
nanoprisms is uniform and isotropic.  Otherwise, the stresses caused by the sudden 
temperature changes will be uniform across the whole nanoparticle, implying that each 
atom would move in the same way and same speed [5, 6].  If there is no relative speed 
difference between atoms, how would periodic expansion and contraction occur? We 
believe that although the temperature distribution in a nanoprism caused by laser heating 
is very close to uniformity, there exist small temperature variations within the nanoplate 
to result in multi-mode excitations. The simplified approach used here, using 2-D FPU 
model with two kinds of impulsive forces to represent the electronic and lattice stresses, 
allows us to capture the most relevant behavior observed in laser-heated nanoprisms. In 
the future we plan to conduct a full treatment with a combined 3-D TTM and 3-D FPU 
model, which is certainly much more CPU demanding by several orders of magnitude.  
 
 
IV. Saturable absorbers using cabon nanotubes 
 16
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
0.00000
0.00005
0.00010
0.00015
0.00020
0.00025
0.00030
0.00035
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800
0.60
0.61
0.62
0.63
0.64
0.65
0.66
0.67
0.68
0.69
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
0.74
0.75
0.76
Modulation depth=5%
Modulation depth=10%
Tr
an
sm
is
si
on
 ra
te
Pump power (uW)
 Pump polarization perpendicular to the smple
 Pump polarization parallel to the sampleSWCNT, 1060nm
τ=350fs
Lo
ck
in
g 
ph
as
e 
am
pl
ifi
er
 s
ig
na
l(V
)
Delay time(femtosecond)
nonsaturable losses due to scattering from SWCNT bundles can be minimized by making 
the bundles smaller than the device operation wavelength. The latter can be achieved 
when SWCNTs are dispersed in a solvent. The presence of bundles is, however, useful to 
minimize the recovery time. The use of a polymer matrix offers the best compromise in 
terms of bundle-size control and ease of device integration. This can be optimized at the 
SWCNT dispersion stage, and probed by photoluminescence spectroscopy, which allows 
for the detection of isolated SWCNTs as well as small bundles. 
In our group, we start the fabrication and measurement of SWCNT absorbers for 
half year. However, we have already made two kinds of novel SWCNT absorbers. One is 
gradual modulation depth absorber. The modulation depth can be gradually changed in 
one sample. The other is polarization absorber. The details are as Figures 7 and 8. The 
further work is still on. 
 
 
 
Fig.7. Bleaching signal (Locking 
phase amplifier signal) 
corresponds with the angle (θ ) 
between pump laser (1060nm) and 
the alignment direction of SWCNT 
absorber. The measurement 
condition is: pump power (about 
100µW) is about 100 times of the 
probe power. Probe polarization 
parallels to the alignment direction 
of SWCNT absorber.  
 
Fig.8. The diagram is the recovery time curve 
of SWCNT solution at 1060nm. The inlet is the 
saturable curve of the SWCNT absorber at 
1060nm. The modulation depth is about 5% 
(Pump polarization is perpendicular to the 
sample) and 10%(Pump polarization is 
parallel to the sample). The area of laser on 
the absorber is about 50 µm.  
-20 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200
160
170
180
190
200
210
220
230
Lo
ck
in
g 
ph
as
e 
am
pl
ifi
er
 s
ig
na
l(m
V)
The angle between Pump and SWCNT alignment(degree)
