總計劃:智慧型視訊訊號處理-子計畫一: (3/3)
移動物體的視訊訊號分析，偵測及動作辨識
MOVING OBJECT VIDEO SIGNAL ANALYSIS,
DETECTION AND ACTION RECOGNITION(III)
計畫編號: NSC 97-2221-E-002-115-MY3
執行期限：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：貝蘇章 台灣大學電機系教授
摘要
本文提出一三度空間數學模擬來設計色彩碼度 (Color
Codebook)，利用此影像的色彩特徵來應用影像資料庫的
搜尋，近而電腦模擬。此方法可以改進及提高搜尋的速
度及精確度。
I. INTRODUCTION
With the development of network technologies, people
need to rely on the network to search the information of daily
life more and more. Because the storage capacity of the
computer increases rapidly, the amount of digital information
follows to grow up. In the recent 20 years, queries and browse
in large image databases is an important topic in the image
processing. Therefore, there has been an increased research
activity in developing an effective and efficient image
retrieval system.
Early research in the image retrieval is based on keyword
searching for the text-annotated image database. Since the
1990’s, people began to be interested in the study on the 
content-based image retrieval (CBIR). It is a technique that
uses visual features to search images from a large image
database. There are three fundamental parts for CBIR, i.e.
visual feature extraction, multi-dimensional indexing, and
retrieval procedure [1]. IBM’s QBIC [2] was the first 
commercial CBIR system.
Recently, many researches of CBIR exploit the visual
features such as color, shape, and texture to recognize the
images. Shape and texture based approaches have a difficulty
that the image needs to be correctly segmented into individual
objects [3]. Therefore, color feature that considers the color
distribution of pixels is widely used in CBIR system. Color
histogram is the most popular approach to characterize the
color feature, which is robust to rotation and scaling. However,
there exist two major problems [3]: first, operating in high-
dimensionality leads to more computational time. Second, it
ignores the spatial relation among pixels and fails to capture
meaningful contents of the image.
In this paper, we propose a new image indexing for the
content-based image retrieval, which is based on the color
feature. To reduce the computational time, we develop a 3D
mathematical model to design a color codebook, which uses
only one index to represent each color pixel. The similarity
between the query and database image can be accordingly
measured by Euclidean distance between histograms in 1D
index domain instead of 3D color domain. To match the
human perception, the spatial relationship should be integrated
into the color feature. We exploit the centroid of color image
to adapt the color codebook. The quantized indexed image can
therefore captures meaningful contents of the image.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section II introduces some pre-processes before carrying out
the image indexing. Section III defines a 3D mathematical
model to create a color codebook. The main procedure of
image retrieval: image indexing and similarity comparison are
described in section IV. Because the proposed system is
affected by three parameters, the performances of image
retrieval are evaluated in different conditions and presented in
section V. Finally, section VI gives some concluding remarks.
II. PRE-PROCESSING
A. Image cropping
In practical image retrieval application, the database for
queries and browse should provide a large amount of target
images to satisfy the user's interest. When the size of database
becomes greater, the searching for queries takes longer time.
On the contrary, if the computational complexity of each
image on the database is reduced, the search time becomes
naturally less.
Image cropping that selects a desired rectangular region
creates a new image and discards the unwanted part of the
image. If the rectangular region is smaller, the area percentage
of the subject on the image being cropped is larger. However,
the cropping does not reduce the resolution. When the original
image has a high resolution, best results are obtained. Hence,
the cropping can improve the image composition in the new
image. For the same algorithm, the computational complexity
of the cropped image will be lowered for its smaller size.
Therefore, before carrying out the image indexing, we first
distributions of query images. To fit any given query image
properly, we let the codebook be adaptively translated
according to the given query image. The centroid of color
distribution of the query image is found firstly, and then the
codebook is accordingly translated to form a new codebook.
In this method, the indexed images of the database should be
recalculated for each query. However, a codebook with
smaller size (e.g. 512, 256) can thus perform well because its
distribution changes with the given query image. In addition,
the translation of the color codebook shows that the spatial
relationship is considered into the image indexing. Therefore,
the proposed image retrieval system can satisfy the property of
human perception.
B. Similarity comparison
Usually in CBIR, similarity measurement is conducted by
calculating the Euclidean distance between color histograms
of images. In the previous section, the centroid of color image
is used to modulate the distribution of color codebook.
Therefore, the indexed image produced from the codebook
includes the information about the spatial relation. Because it
captures the meaningful contents of the image, it can be
regarded as a grayscale image. When we measure the
similarity between the query and database images, the color
histograms in which the Euclidean distance is calculated can
be simplified to the histogram of the grayscale image. The
process of realizing the similarity measure is described as
follows:
Step1: Calculate the histogram of these indexed images to
obtain the counts for each entry of the colormap.
Step2: Use the Euclidean distance to compare the similarity
between the query and database images according to the
histogram.
Step3: In the database, the image with the minimum Euclidean
distance is the best match for the query image.
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
A. Retrieval time and retrieval accuracy
Some parameters proposed in this work can be adjusted to
improve the performance. These parameters are cropping rate,
codebook size and the center of the color codebook. In the
following experiments, we change one parameter and fix the
others to discuss the impact of them. We use a database with
1000 images which include twenty different categories. To
make the results more reliable, ten query images are randomly
chosen from the database in each experiment. The
performance is measured by two quantities: retrieval time and
retrieval accuracy [9]. The retrieval time is the total time of
finding out the relevant target images for a query one, which
can reflect the computational complexity. The retrieval
accuracy is defined as (2), where N is the default number of
returned images for each query and rN is the number of
relevant images. In this work, N is set to 20.

N
N
R r(%)  
Experiment 1- Directly using of the 3D color codebook:
Because the center of the 3D color codebook is fixed to
the origin (0,0,0), we set the codebook size Nq=1024. Under
different cropping rates, we compare the retrieval time and
retrieval accuracy. Because the retrieval time is affected by the
experiment environment and the database, we regard original
query image as base and calculate the proportion of the
retrieval time for different cropping rates. The experimental
result shows the retrieval time can be reduced greatly as the
cropping rate decreases. This is because the size of the image
to be indexed is one factor of the computational complexity in
the image indexing. When the cropping rate is less than 1/4,
the value of the retrieval accuracy cannot reach 60%.
Therefore, we should choose the proper cropping rate greater
than 1/4.
Experiment 2- Adaption of the 3D color codebook:
Because the center of the 3D color codebook is adaptive
with the query image, we set the codebook size Nq=512.
Under different cropping rates, we compare the retrieval time
and retrieval accuracy. Here, original query image is still
regarded as the base. The experimental result shows that the
image cropping can improve the retrieval time greatly. The
value of the retrieval accuracy by the adaptive color codebook
is higher than that by the original color codebook. This is
because the adaptive color codebook can cover the distribution
of different query images. When the cropping rate is 1/9, the
value of the retrieval accuracy can still approach 61.8%. Thus,
we can conclude that the proper cropping rate lies between 1/9
and 1/4.
Experiment 3- Selection of codebook size:
We first set the cropping rate =1/4 and use the adaptive
color codebook. With different codebook sizes, we compare
the retrieval time and retrieval accuracy. Here, we regard the
codebook size 512 as the base and calculate the proportion of
the retrieval time for different codebook sizes. From the
experimental results, we first found that the retrieval time is
indeed reduced as the codebook size decreases. This is
because the computational complexity is proportional to the
codebook size. When the codebook size is less than 256, the
value of the retrieval accuracy can still approach 63%. Thus,
the proper codebook size lies between 256 and 512. We can
conclude that the codebook size, the cropping rate and the
center of the 3D color codebook indeed determine the
performance of the propose scheme. If the three parameters
can be properly chosen, the retrieval speed and the retrieval
accuracy will be raised greatly.
B. Robustness
Because the proposed system is operating in the Lab space,
the color components are uncorrelated and not influenced by
the image distortion. In addition, the translation of the 3D
codebook is to match the distribution of query images, so the
spatial relationship is considered into the image indexing. In
this section, we prove the use of the Lab color space and the
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/14
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一:移動物體的視訊訊號分析，偵測及動作辨識
計畫主持人: 貝蘇章
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-002-115-MY3 學門領域: 訊號處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
