adapting to the heterogeneity of the service demands 
and collaboration mechanisms in the service network.  
Through in-depth model-based analysis and synthesis 
of the emerging digital service activities, this 
research develops an ontology-based platform for 
knowledge creation and network management to capture 
the extensive opportunities for value creation in 
synergy with participative webs of services realizing 
experience economics.   
 
 
 
英文關鍵詞： Network Ontology, Digital Services, Collaborative 
Innovation 
 
1 
 
 
建構與治理數位服務創新知識網路 
中文摘要 
在數位技術及參與式網際網路服務大幅進展時，知識密集之數位服務正與
平台為基礎之網路經濟交互推動而快速成長。在此發展趨勢下，有關創新知
識網絡上如何運用及推動企業網路之分析與演化，促成有效的協同發展開創
性數位服務之研究，格外有其重要性。 
本計畫之目的在於發展與結合網路知識本體論及社會網路動態演化分析
以促成數位服務之協同創新。本研究之核心是發展能提供數位服務知識及價值
創造解析之動態本體論(dynamic ontology) ，包含如何辨識、結合與動員服務
網絡之參與者及其資源之法則與機制。過去對於服務創新的相關研究，普遍著
重於產業導向，對知識服務創新網絡之相關性研究較少著墨。因此，本研究從
社會與企業之參與式服務網絡活動的個案中，比較與探討如何在市場與組織高
度不確定性中，運用網絡組織演化之架構與機制，探討數位服務之營運模式創
新。本研究藉由對數位服務網絡個案與系統作縱深分析，可以檢驗新創組織網
絡間呈現多元之知識實體運作，以動態組合檢視知識聚合效應為其帶來運用網
絡組織作開創性之服務，實現參與式體驗經濟與價值創造。 
關鍵詞：網絡知識本體論、數位服務、協同創新 
  
 
3 
 
 
Introduction 
 
With the advances of digital technologies and participative webs of services, 
knowledge-intensive digital services have thrived on a rapidly expanding 
platform-based network economy. There is a great need for a comprehensive research 
on the use of knowledge base on organization network evolution to facilitate 
collaborative development of digital services.  
Innovation in service sector is the process by which the opportunities for the creation 
of markets for new services are identified, pursued and exploited (Howells, 2006; 
OECD, 2006, 2007.) Service sector entrepreneurship is recognized as important for 
value creation (e.g., Amit and Zott, 2001; Hitt et al., 2002; Kodithuwakku and Rosa, 
2002). Our previous studies of innovation on knowledge intensive digital service in 
Taiwan (Hung, Liu and Chu, 2003, Liu, et al, 2004, Liu, et al 2005, Chu and Wu, 
2005; Hung and Chu, 2005, Chu and Hsu, 2006) indicated that value creation arises 
from the synthesis of collaborative actions via reorganization of partnerships, network 
of resources and intellectual capital. Many start-ups and established firms in digital 
services encounter the problems in restructuring organization relationship 
(Childerhouse, et al, 2002; Heikkila, 2002; Meridith, 2006.) As such, we propose that 
the embedded organization knowledge provides the essence for the new ideas and aids 
in the proper recognition, recombination and mobilization of resources and 
exploitation of market opportunities.  
 
This research focuses on the collaborative integration of service and organizing 
relationships of the emerging network of the intellectual capital and competence for 
entrepreneurial opportunity creation (Mckelvery, 2003; Jones and Dimitratos, 2004; 
Chu and Hsu, 2006; Chu and Cheng, 2007).  The core problem facing the innovator 
in the knowledge intensive service industries is the intermediation of the market 
demand and value (Sidhatha & Maheshkumar, 2007; Howells, 2006; OECD, 2006 & 
2007.). The study extend the existing literature by highlighting the importance of the 
mutual understanding of digital service knowledge creation and transfer among the 
partners in the network in providing value-added services (e.g., Agrawala, et al 2005; 
Mckelvey, 2005.) In addition, the findings in the emerging business practices with the 
use of the prototype platform in this research can contribute to service firms engaging 
in the value creation through collaborative creating and delivery of the content, 
services and experience.. 
 
Theoretical Background 
5 
 
to adopt the experimental concepts and approaches which have been explored for the 
collaborative integration of dynamic scalable ontologies (Chu and Chien, 2005; 
Rezende, et al 2005; Aziz, et al 2005.)    
 
Organized business network for digital services 
Organizational network has increasingly been used to study interactions among 
individual or groups. What needs to be considered is the social capital reside in the 
networks which are valuable intangible asset for service innovation It provides human 
intellect, structural routines and network of relationships that can lead to competitive 
advantage. In the dynamic market and technology environment the content design 
industries facing the types of human team, venture operation routines, and the 
network relationships which would greatly affect the creation of new market 
opportunities. Intellectual capital is considered to include (1) human capital – the 
knowledge embedded in the mind of the human worker, (2) structural capital – the 
organization routines of the business, and (3) relational capital – the knowledge 
embedded in the relationships with the outside environment (Edvinson and Sullivan, 
1996; Bontis, et al, 2001.) It is evident in our case study that social capital is 
influential in developing new intellectual capital needed in exploring the 
entrepreneurial opportunities (Nahapiet and Ghoshal, 2002). Many of the mechanisms 
that advance the entrepreneurial process reside in the continuously evolving cycles of 
developing intellectual capital, organizational knowledge, and opportunities (Nahapiet, 
1996; Hitt, 2001). Furthermore, the institutional settings of the high-tech environment 
in Taiwan nurturing the industry are conducive to the building up of the social capital 
important to recognizing and exploiting the opportunities.  
 
Research Objective 
 
This research aims to develop an ontology-guided organization network analysis to 
facilitate the formation of the innovation network to create new digital services. 
Central to the research is a dynamic ontology construct that could articulate the 
evolution of the social and business networks driven by the prospects of value 
creation. Guiding organization structure and routines are derived to contribute to 
recognizing, engaging, mobilizing, and governing key actors collaborating on the 
digital service activities. Based on building a model prototype and a series of 
cross-disciplinary case studies of the digital service industries, we explore the 
potential and problem solving mechanism of an ontology-based platform in the 
collaboration network of service generation and delivery process in a coordinated 
fashion.  
7 
 
support of ontology development and use throughout its life cycle – design evaluation, 
deployment, mapping, sharing and reuse (Gruninger and Lee, 2002). The ontology in 
the context of the mediated service cases refers to the relations, combinations, and 
exchanges of the elements pertaining to the resources and mechanisms in the network. 
For example, the ontology for exercising the network ties in the on-line game design 
and service firms influences the access to the parties and the anticipation of value for 
a particular initiative.  The ontology directed to fostering the trust and identification 
factors in anticipating the value and motivating the action of an initiative would 
enhance the opportunities and value created.  The knowledge for the levels of trust 
needed in the intention, capability, reliability, and openness in the other parties plays a 
key role in the new venture initiatives.  
 
The objective for developing the model is twofold: 1) to expand the concept of 
organizational resource recombination by including intellectual/social capital creation 
processes, and 2) to gather empirical evidences on the important role of ontological 
integration of organizational knowledge to guide the collaborative innovation and 
entrepreneurial opportunities. Specifically, central to the model is its intermediary 
mechanism to identify service demand drivers that impact the value creation process. 
A plethora of organization and management theories appear to contribute to highlight 
the engagement of key actors in the digital service activities, including the social 
network theory, social capital theory, resource-based theory, institution theory, and 
transaction cost theory. 
 
Research Method 
 
This research explore the relationship among networks, intellectual capital, 
resource-based, and institution view of organization for service innovation and value 
creation. The data collection, data analysis, and conceptualization are conducted 
iteratively in the process of investigation.  We adopt the principle of iterative of 
Glaser and Strauss (1967) in the process of data collection. We use multiple sources of 
evidence suggested by Yin (1994) for data source. First, we collect the secondary data 
through trade study reports, webs and current press information to preliminarily 
gather the historical events in the industry. Second, we use focused interviews and 
other means of correspondence to fill the gaps of the key process and events in the 
selected knowledge service firms to collect the first set of data on the representative 
firms in a variety of knowledge intensive service activities – design and logistics, 
information and software services, encompassing the design, production and delivery 
activities.   
9 
 
place and different organization, that is, geographically distributed electronically 
mediated services across organization network and boundary. Based on this 
framework, this framework explores the drivers, mechanisms, the potential 
opportunities, and impacts for the ontology in the platform.  
 
The sponsor and provider roles are established business models, presenting a rich and 
“thick” demand creation and mediation, including the responsiveness to the 
heterogeneity and evolving nature of the involved network communities as a whole. 
For effective guidance on the basis of a diversity of perspectives with organization 
frame, top-level ontology could include the service domain knowledge taxonomy as 
well as relationships taxonomy.  
The domain taxonomy accounts for demand drivers such as market environmental 
determinants, and temporal parameters.  The relationships taxonomy supports 
interaction protocol to facilitate the ontology-based solution integration to deal with 
the network dynamics and operational uncertainty which are typical in the emerging 
industries of knowledge intensive digital services. A sample framework of the 
ontology conceptualization process implemented in the prototype system is developed. 
The framework provides a systematic presentation to refine, classify, and analyze the 
collaboration information management requirements in the transformation and 
identification processes.   
 
Central to the development is a dynamic ontology construct that articulates the 
evolution of the organization networks driven by the prospects of value creation with 
networking structure and routines contributing to recognizing, engaging, and 
mobilizing key actors and resources. Based on a prototype model and a series of case 
studies of the emerging knowledge-intensive service industries, this research explores 
the potential of the model in adapting to the heterogeneity of the service demands and 
collaboration mechanisms in the service network.  Through in-depth model-based 
analysis and synthesis of the emerging digital service activities, this research 
establishes an ontology-based platform for knowledge creation and network 
management system to capture the extensive opportunities for value creation in 
participative webs of services on experience economics.   
 
Reference 
 
Agrawala, M., Hariharanb, G., Kishorec, R., and Rao, H.R. 2005 ‘Matching 
Intermediaries for Information Goods in the Presence of Direct Search: An 
Examination of Switching Costs and Obsolescence of Information,’ Decision Support 
11 
 
Fernandez-Breiz, J. T. and Martinez-Bejar, R. 2002 ‘A cooperative framework for 
integrating ontology.’ International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Vol. 56, 
pp. 665-720. 
Fox, M. S., Barbuceanu, M. and Gruninger, M. 1996. An organisation ontology for 
enterprise modeling: preliminary concepts for linking structure and behaviour, 
Computers in Industry, Vol. 29, pp.123-134. 
Gruninger, M. and Lee, J. 2002, ‘Ontology applications and design,’ Communications 
of the ACM, Vol. 45(2) Feb. 
Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, D.L., 2001. Guest editors; 
introduction to the special issue strategic entrepreneurship: entrepreneurial strategies 
for wealth creation. Strategic Management Journal, 22: 479-491.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Hitt, M.A., R.D., Ireland, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2002, ‘Strategic 
Entrepreneurship: Integrating Entrepreneurial and Strategic Management 
Perspectives’, pp.1-16. in Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, D.L. 
(ed.), Strategic Entrepreneurship: Creating a New Mindset, Oxford, MA: Blackwell 
Publishers. 
Howells, J. 2006. ‘Intermediation and the Role of Intermediaries in Innovation,’ 
Research Policy 35, pp. 715–728 
Hung, S. and Chu, Y., 2005 Stimulating New Industries from Emerging Technologies: 
Challenges for the Public Sector, Technovation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Ireland, R.D., M.A., Hitt, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2001, Integrating 
Entrepreneurship Actions and Strategic Management Actions to Create Firm Wealth, 
Academy of Management Executive, Vol.15, No.1, pp.49-63. 
Jones, J., Bowonder B. and Wood, D. (2003) Critical Competencies in Virtual Service 
Webs, European Management Journal, Vol. 21-1, pp.48-61.  
Jiang, G., Hu, B., and Wang, Y. 2010. Agent-based Simulation of Competitive and 
Collaborative Mechanisms for Mobile Service Chains, Information Sciences, 180, pp. 
225-240. 
Kodithuwakku, S.S. and P. Rosa, 2002, ‘The Entrepreneurial Process and Economic 
Success in a Constrained Environment’, Journal of Business Venturing,.17, 
pp.431-465. 
Liu, M.C. and Chen, S.H. 2003. International R&D Deployment and Locational 
Advantage: A Case Study of Taiwan, NBER Working Paper Series, 10169. 
Liu, T., Chu, Y., Hung, S. and Wu, S. 2005. Technology Entrepreneurial Styles: a 
Comparison of UMC and TSMC, International Journal of Technology Management, 
29(1/2) pp. 92-115. 
13 
 
for System-on-chip, Proceedings of International Conference on Information and 
Knowledge Engineering, July. 
Yin, R. K. 1994. Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 2nd Ed. London, CA: 
Sage. 
 
表 Y04 
議題第三場次之論文發表。該場次除提出研究小組所發展之網絡知識論與動
態分析促進數位服務之協同創新之發展與利用，並在會場與與會學者專家交
流其他各篇論文提出之重點議題，探討之領域涵蓋知識之創新與分享、知識
表達方式、運作與規則之建立等。在會中並與研討會之主席暨創辦人 Dr. 
Kacaoglu及會議主持人 Dr. Anderson等探討新興研究領域之發展。在討論當
中均認為全球化之研究創新與跨組織合作是一個以跨領域間作快速整合與發
展的學術研究領域。目前此一領域正結合三方面的研究動力：一方面由知識、
科技與智慧資產之創造探討產業之發展及應用；另一方面是跨邊界之互補
性、雙贏之創意與創業活動之新興研究領域加上公私領域之協同夥伴發展。
此一結合趨勢將能提升此學術領域對未來的科技、產業及社會的進展上的貢
獻及影響力。 
 
與會心於創新與創業管理本體論議題之研究上，筆者參加之場次分別探討創新
管理新知識之發掘過程之知識創新、知識組織與擴散機制與作法。與會學者對於發
展體系之系統特徵及有效的參與過程所提出的論點與實證研究結果作整體性之探
討。筆者研究團隊提出知識服務業知識產出、利用動態模式運用網絡組織作開創性
之服務之研究結果亦在會場獲得進一步之討論與交流。會中除了歐、亞洲的學者
外，有北美與會者表達有興趣探索作進一步分析討論及研究之可能性。 
由此觀點來看這次大會主題的一再提到整個領域的跨組織邊界之知識
技術與組織管理體制整合的性質。再由這次與會論文安排的架構觀之，傳統
上技術知識與創新組織體制之結合運用似已愈來愈成熟，或許將來可能演進
為一個整體的領域，得以結合學術資源與成果以發揮其影響力。 
 
二、 考察參觀活動 
無 
三、 建議 
在研討會與期刊之發表中，關於我國在協同科技創新與創業管理知識創
造之知識本質方面研究表現仍可加強。由於我國之高科技產業創新上的發展
在新興的經濟體中表現甚為耀眼，使得在這個領域中的少數論文受到與會者
1 
 
Network ontology and dynamics analysis for collaborative innovation in digital 
services 
Yee-Yeen Chu and Shih-Wei Lin 
National Tsing-Hua University  
Department of Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management 
101 Kuang-Fu Road, Section 2, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan 300 
 
Abstract 
 
With the advances of digital technologies and participative webs of services, knowledge-intensive digital 
services have thrived on a rapidly expanding platform-based network economy. There is a great need for a 
comprehensive research on knowledge based analysis on social network and business network evolution to 
facilitate collaborative development of digital services.  
 
This research aims to develop an ontology-guided analysis of networking to facilitate the formation of the 
innovation network to create new digital services. Central to the research is a dynamic ontology construct that 
could articulate the evolution of the social and business networks driven by the prospects of value creation 
with networking structure and routines contributing to recognizing, engaging, and mobilizing key actors and 
resources. Based on a prototype model and a series of case studies of the emerging knowledge-intensive 
service industries, this research explores the potential of the model in adapting to the heterogeneity of the 
service demands and collaboration mechanisms in the service network.  Through in-depth model-based 
analysis and synthesis of the emerging digital service activities, this research expects to develop an 
ontology-based platform for knowledge creation and network management system to capture the extensive 
opportunities for value creation in participative webs of services on experience economics.   
 
Keywords: Network Ontology, Digital Services, Social Network, Collaborative Innovation 
3 
 
interaction of organizational knowledge, intellectual capital, and the multi-stream value creation 
opportunities.  We also base our investigation of the effects of intellectual capital on entrepreneurial 
opportunity identification upon the cross-organization social network on value creation arising from the 
synthesis of organization knowledge and actions upon the market opportunities. The constituents of this 
model involve organizing intellectual and relationship capital integrated under a demand ontology, which is 
described below. 
This study explored the firms’ service innovation value creating processes based on a knowledge network 
view of firms. The ability of the firms to acquire, integrate, share in knowledge network is the most 
important capability to build and sustain competitive advantages. It was observed in network-based 
research in entrepreneurship that dense networks can reinforce trust building, strong ties are predictive of 
early entrepreneurial activity and early linkages and legitimating activities affect persistence of 
entrepreneurial activity [3]. The demand creation and management functions in the firms link and 
coordinate an organization with key elements in the external networking environment.  The diversity of 
social network and experience is conducive to the demand management activities which straddling the 
organization boundary.  
This research uses the organization ontology-based mediation mechanism to address the complex problems 
of service creation and governance. Organization ontology is a formal explicit specification of the shared 
conceptualization or organization model [4][5][6]. Indeed, from enterprise modeling views, organizational 
ontology is often considered to include a set of actors, institutions, activities, rules and procedures.  As 
such, an organizational ontology will need to model organizations as being made of networks of social 
actors, processes, and institutions. The action perspective of the organizational ontology emphasizes the 
social activities by which the actors/agents generate the space of coordinated actions in which they work 
[4][5]. We adopted the experimental concepts and approaches which have been explored for the 
collaborative integration of dynamic scalable ontologies [6][7][8]. 
Social capital has increasingly been considered a valuable intangible asset for service innovation, since it 
provides human intellect, structural routines and network of relationships that can lead to competitive 
advantage. For example, in the dynamic market and technology environment the content design industries 
facing the types of human team, venture operation routines, and the network relationships which would 
greatly affect the creation of new market opportunities. Intellectual capital is considered to include (1) 
5 
 
Through the comparative case studies of the above service activities, this research expects to clarify the 
transformation process of organization mediation and service knowledge creation, supported by the 
richness of the organizational ontological elements of the collaborative innovation activities. Based on the 
premise of the organizational knowledge as socially embedded, this research hence explores how the 
entrepreneurial firms coordinate and reorganize the resource to effectively capture the opportunity in the 
highly uncertain environment to create value. The implications will then be drawn out for strategic 
management of industrial knowledge and for assessing business policy and practices. 
We propose a staged model for the ontological engineering of intellectual capital for opportunity and value 
creation. In order to achieve value creation, several necessary conditions for the realizing transformation to 
take place: 1) access to the parties holding the resources, 2) anticipation of the values, 3) motivation to act, 
and 4) sufficient capability to perform the transformation.  The primary mediation and transformation 
processes are recognized as the combination and exchange processes.  Our view of opportunity creation is 
fundamentally rooted in the dynamics of intellectual/social capital creation process guided by an 
ontological engineering process. Typically, mediation agent has as its goal effective support of ontology 
development and use throughout its life cycle – design evaluation, deployment, mapping, sharing and reuse. 
The ontology in the context of the mediated service cases refers to the relations, combinations, and 
exchanges of the elements pertaining to the resources and mechanisms in the network. For example, the 
ontology for exercising the network ties in the on-line game design and service firms influences the access 
to the parties and the anticipation of value for a particular initiative.  The ontology directed to fostering 
the trust and identification factors in anticipating the value and motivating the action of an initiative would 
enhance the opportunities and value created.  The knowledge for the levels of trust needed in the intention, 
capability, reliability, and openness in the other parties plays a key role in the new venture initiatives.  
The objective for developing the model is twofold: 1) to expand the concept of organizational resource 
recombination by including intellectual/social capital creation process and 2) to gather empirical evidences 
on the important role of ontological integration of organizational knowledge to guide the collaborative 
innovation and entrepreneurial opportunities. Specifically, central to the model is its intermediary 
mechanism to identify service demand drivers that impact the value creation process. A plethora of 
organization and management theories appear to contribute to highlight the engagement of key actors in the 
knowledge-intensive service activities, including the network theory, social capital theory, resource-based 
7 
 
knowledge intensive service activities – IC design, manufacture and logistics services, on-line 
entertainment services including music and game service providers, encompassing the learning objects, 
media and delivery activities. 
For data analysis, this research used the analytical techniques of chronology analysis that allocates events 
in a chronology which can help clarify the causal relationship of events. Accordingly, we established and 
illustrated the collaborative development process of the firms to show the relationship and protocols among 
intellectual capital, organizational knowledge, and service creation opportunities. This stage of research 
explored the mediation factors of service opportunity recognition and exploitation. In this study, we adopt 
the appreciative theorizing approach to establish the process for successful opportunity 
recognition/exploitation in an iterative fashion using a handful of digital service firms.  
 
In the second stage in-depth longitudinal case studies of the intermediary service activities, we rely on our 
theoretical sensitivities to engage in the iterative process of data collection, data analysis, and 
conceptualization. Given the incomplete information in the first stage, we used focused interviews and 
personal correspondence to fill the gap in the historical events. A number of the firms’ business partners are 
also interviewed to fill in the missing pieces of the supporting elements on organizational ontology. We 
then draw on the analytical technique of clustering for data analysis. We thereby inductively identified the 
theoretical and practical contributions underlying the constructing and governing the network by the 
leading knowledge service providers. 
The case study and analysis of various digital service firms pointed to a staged model for the ontological 
engineering of intellectual capital. Typically, ontological engineering has as its goal effective support of 
ontology development and use throughout the design evaluation, deployment, mapping, sharing and reuse. 
The ontology in the context of the digital service cases refers to the relations, combinations, and exchanges 
of the elements pertaining to the service resources and mechanisms. For example, the ontology for 
exercising the network ties in the service network influences the access to the parties and the anticipation of 
value for a particular initiative (e.g., links are prevalent in the leading digital and analog circuit design 
firms in the new design-production-test collaboration arrangements.) The ontology directed to fostering the 
trust and identification factors in anticipating the value and motivating the action of an initiative would 
9 
 
associated ontological transformations of selected IC firms, specialized in IC technology development 
involving design, productions, and system integration. The main outcome of this research is an ontological 
engineering model to illustrate the particular capabilities of identifying innovation opportunity and 
enhancing knowledge exchange and creation. The model implies that a new service expansion needs 
combination capabilities for knowledge and opportunity. Therefore, new knowledge capital can be 
generated and regenerated to strengthen the experience, convenience and quality benefits to customer. We 
also base our investigation of the effects of intellectual capital on opportunity identification upon the 
cross-organization social network.  
Reference 
 
[1] Chu, Y. and Hsu, W. 2006 Organization Ontology for Innovation and Entrepreneurship for Cross-border 
Knowledge Services in the Globalizing IC Design Industries, PICMET (Portland International Conference on 
Management of Engineering and Technology.)  
[2] Chu, Y. and Cheng, Y., 2007 Demand Chain Management Ontology for Innovation in Integrated Circuit 
Design and Manufacture Services, World Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics 
(WMSCI) 2007. 
[3] Carayannis, E.G. and von Zedtwitz, M, 2005. Architecting Global-Local Real-Virtual Incubator Networks 
as Catalysts and Accelerators of Entrepreneurship in Transitioning and Developing Economies, Technovation. 
25(2005) pp. 95-110. 
[4] Fox, M. S., Barbuceanu, M. and Gruninger, M. 1996. An organisation ontology for enterprise modeling: 
preliminary concepts for linking structure and behaviour, Computers in Industry, Vol. 29, pp.123-134. 
[5] Gruninger, M. and Lee, J. 2002, Ontology applications and design, Communications of the ACM, Vol. 
45(2) Feb. 
[6] Corcho, O., Fernandez-Lopez, M., and Gomez-Perez, A. 2003. Methodologies, tools and languages for 
building ontologies: where is their meeting point? Data and Knowledge Engineering, Vol. 46, pp.41-64. 
[7] Rezende, J.L. et al 2005. Peer-to-Peer Collaborative Integration of Dynamic Ontologies, 9th international 
Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, ACM. 
[8] Aziz, H., Gao, J., Maropoulos, P. and Cheung, W.M. 2005. Open Standard, Open Source and Peer-to-Peer 
Tools and Methods for Collaborative Product Development, Computers in Industry, 56 (2005), pp. 260-271.  
[9] Nahapiet, J.E. and Ghoshal S. 2002. Social capital, intellectual capital, and the organizational advantage in 
Choo, C.W. and Bontis, N. The Strategic Management of Intellectual Capital and Organizational 
knowledge, Oxford. 
[10] Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, D.L., 2001. Guest editors; introduction to the special 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以網絡知識論與動態分析促進數位服務之協同創新
計畫主持人: 朱詣尹
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-007-060- 學門領域: 服務系統與科技管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
