2Abstract
In this study, we proposed utilizing evaporation of protein solution to perform large-area
micro/nanopatterning. The PDMS stamp with microwells, micropillars or microchannels
array were fabricated, which was used either to cover the protein solution or such that the
protein solution fills the interstitial space through loading. It is found that different
structures can be formed with ease. The processing conditions were discussed and
hypothetical mechanism was proposed.
Introduction
Generating repetitive patterns of micro/nanofeatures on a relatively large area has been
one of the focal points in research and development in micro/nanotechnology. Although the
conventional photolithographic process and electron beam lithography (EBL) can be used to
generate patterns on a large area, either the minimum line width is still large or the cost is too
high. Some alternatives have been developed to address these issues such as nanoimprint
lithography (NIL)1,2, soft lithography3, patterned molecular combing4,5, capillary force
lithography (CFL)6 and other techniques related to capillary flows7,8. In this study, we have
investigated fast and large-area micro/nanopatterning via capillarity using biomolecules,
which provides an useful alternative for micro/nanofabrication.
Experimental
The surface tension for the BSA solutions with different concentrations was measured
using the surface tensiometer. The polydimethyl siloxane (PDMS) stamp with microwells,
micropillars or microchannels were fabricated via photolithographic process. When using
the PDMS stamp with microwells, a droplet of bovine serum albumin (BSA) with different
concentrations was dispensed on a glass substrate, followed by covering with the PDMS
stamp. When using the PDMS stamp with micropillars or microchannels, it was placed on a
substrate, followed by loading the BSA solution with different concentrations. Fluorescein
was added in the solution for visualization. After the solvent evaporated, the stamp was
removed and the glass slide with patterns was examined using optical microscope, scanning
electron microscope (SEM) and atomic force microscope (AFM).
Results and Discussion
The surface tension for the BSA solutions with 0.1, 1, 3, and 10 wt% are 55.7, 54.6, 53.0,
50.6 dyne/cm, respectively. It can be seen that the higher the BSA concentration, the lower
the surface tension. The contact angle was obtained by dispensing a droplet of BSA solution
with different concentrations on different substrates and was listed in Table 1. Except for
the glass slide, the contact angle for a droplet of BSA solution on three different substrates is
similar to the contact angle when a droplet of DI water is dispensed.
4Figure 3: Formation of patterns using 3 wt% BSA solution (a) optical image and (b) AFM.
Figure 4: Formation of patterns using 10 wt% BSA solution (a) optical image and (b) AFM.
It is found that, when the ring structures generated from evaporation of 1 and 3 wt%
BSA solutions were rinsed with DI water, the concentric circles were obtained as shown in
Figures 5(a) and (b). It is hypothesized that formation of the concentric circles could be
similar to the coffee ring phenomenon9. As the BSA solution evaporates, the liquid level
drops. Because of the drag force from the PDMS wall, the liquid level is not flat as shown
Figure 5: AFM images of BSA pattern after rinsing. (a) 1 and (b) 3wt%.
(a) (b)
(a) (b)
(a) (b)
6Figure 8: Formation of ring structures on PDMS using (a) 1 and (b) 3 wt% BSA solution.
could be the reason why the ring structures formed on PDMS are smaller.
2. PDMS stamp with micropillars
It is found that, when using the PDMS stamp having 5.5-micron in diameter and
11-micron center-to-center distance micropillars array with the height less than 2 micron, the
3 wt% BSA solution can wick through the micropillars array spontaneously after loading the
solution at the edge. However, the BSA solution stopped flowing into the interstitial space
as the height increases to 4.5 micron. To facilitate the flow, the PDMS stamps were treated
with O2 plasma. All the BSA solutions with concentration ranging from 0.1 to 10 wt%
wicked through the micropillars array spontaneously and rapidly. Figure 9 shows drying
after filling the micropillars array with 1 and 10 wt% BSA solutions. For the concentration
less than 1 wt%, it is found that, after drying, the segmented lines were formed between
micropillars and most of them are in the direction of solution receding as shown in Figure 9(a).
Note that the height and/or width of the lines are not uniform since the fluorescent intensity
varies. For the concentration larger than 10 wt%, the area between micropillars was
completely covered with BSA as shown in Figure 9(b).
Figure 9: Drying after filling the micropillars array with (a) 1 and (b) 10 wt% BSA solution.
(a) (b)
(a) (b)
1REPORT
American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) Annual Meeting
Philadelphia, PA, USA
November 16-21, 2008
by
Yi-Je Juang, Assistant Professor
Department of Chemical Engineering
National Cheng Kung University
The presentations regarding micro/nanofabrication, micro/nanofluidics and its
applications in biomedical area were selected. In the session of MEMS and
Biosensors, one talk is about carrying out electroporation via microfluidic device with
convergent-divergent channels. The similar idea has been proposed by other
research groups in which the electric field at the convergent end is so high that the
cells are electroporated when passing through. The advantage of using microfluidc
device for electroporation is that the cells can be electroporated one by one, leading to
better control of transfection for all the electroporated cells. In addition, the device
is low cost and a continuous fashion of cell analysis through cytometry can be
achieved. In the session of Nanofabrication and Nanoscale Processing, different
strategies were applied to construct nanoscale features or structures such as using the
phospholipids monolayers as soft resist layers or meniscus receding to assemble
carbon nanotubes. DNA combing and imprinting was utilized to fabricate polymeric
nanochannels and microwells array and large-scale fabrication of nanostructures can
be achieved by spin-coating. Among them, using the phospholipids monolayers as
soft resist layers is an interesting technique which was demonstrated to be able to
pattern for a relatively large area through lift-off process via PDMS stamp
(schematically shown in Figure 1) and the feature size can be down to around 2
micron. Moreover, the resist layer can be removed by rinsing the substrate with
water. However, the resolution (i.e. the boundary between the area being
“developed”and“undeveloped”) was not clearly shown in the result since the images
were taken at a relatively low magnification. In the session of Nanoscale
Electrokinetics, the effect of overlap of electrical double layer inside the nanochannels
and concentration polarization were examined and utilized for applications such as
sample concentration or separation. The smallest dimension of the nanochannel
used is larger than 20 nm and fabrication of the channel size less than 10 nm still
needs to be developed in order to explore the fluidic phenomena in this regime.
