針對低延遲視訊傳輸之兼具快速與效能的 FEC 增強機制 
A Fast and Efficient FEC Enhancement Scheme for 
Delay-sensitive Video Transmissions 
 
施啟煌 Chi-Huang Shih 
 
弘光科技大學 資訊工程系 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Hung Kuang University, Taiwan 
 
E-mail: chshih@sunrise.hk.edu.tw 
 
 
 
摘要 
本研究計畫主旨在探討即時影像傳輸在連續性資料遺失狀態下使用向前糾錯碼(forward error 
correction; FEC)的效能增強機制。由於結合網路擁塞與無線錯誤的連續性資料遺失容易造成 FEC
的效能低落，許多的研究工作分別都提出了方法可以增加 FEC 在處理連續性資料遺失的錯誤恢復能
力，但是這些方式往往增加了所需的時間延遲而不適用於具有低延遲需求的視訊傳輸應用。因此，
本研究提出了一個可兼顧快速與效能的 FEC增強機制;此機制可執行動態的 FEC區塊大小控制以便獲
得較低的延遲並經由小區塊的資料交錯(interleaving)傳輸來改善 FEC 的錯誤控制能力。實驗結果
顯示本機制可以針對低延遲需求的視訊傳輸提供有效的錯誤恢復能力而大幅改善其在連續性資料遺
失狀況下的影像品質。 
 
關鍵字: 向前糾錯碼、資料交錯、品質服務、視訊串流 
 
 
 
the buffer space since the receiver must wait for a 
certain number of interleaved blocks to arrive before 
it can commence the FEC decoding process. For 
applications with stringent delay constraints such as 
real-time video streaming, the FEC interleaving 
technique may be prohibited since the application 
typically regards late packets as lost packets, and 
therefore the video will not be played in time due to 
longer delay [5]. On the other hand, alternative 
approaches under consideration are to increase the 
level of FEC redundancy in each block, and to use 
longer block size. Blindly increasing the 
redundancies is liable to produce a self-induced 
congestion effect, which results in further packet 
losses and a longer queueing delay and therefore 
impedes the timely recovery of the missing 
information [4]. Using longer block size can provide 
higher error correction capacity, but causes the 
additional packet buffering latency and FEC 
processing delay, both of whom contribute to the 
end-to-end delay.  Since the video transmission is 
sensitive to both delay and losses, it is necessary to 
design an appropriate enhancement scheme, which 
is based on the aforementioned FEC control 
approaches, to provide the transmission reliability 
for video streams with the low-delay requirement. 
Accordingly, this paper presents a fast and 
efficient FEC enhancement scheme to combat with 
packet losses in burst-loss channels whilst 
simultaneously maintaining the low end-to-end 
delay. The proposed scheme combines an adaptive 
block size control mechanism and the FEC 
interleaving technique. In the proposed scheme, 
referred to hereafter as the sub-block FEC 
interleaving scheme, each original fixed-length FEC 
block is partitioned into several small sub-blocks. 
The FEC coding process is then applied to each 
sub-block subject to the constraint that the total 
number of redundant packets assigned to the 
sub-blocks must not exceed the total number of 
redundant packets assigned to the original 
fixed-length block. Having added the redundant 
packets to each sub-block, the blocks are interleaved 
for network transmission. For contemporary video 
applications with error resilience and concealment 
properties, the video quality can be significantly 
enhanced by maximizing the amount of source 
packets received at the receiving end. Accordingly, 
in implementing the proposed sub-block FEC 
interleaving scheme, the optimal number of 
sub-blocks is determined in such a way as to 
maximize the video good-put. The experimental 
results show that the sub-block FEC interleaving 
scheme not only enhances the error recovery 
performance over burst-loss channels, but also 
reduces the end-to-end delay compared to that 
induced by a traditional FEC control method. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as 
follows. In Section 2 introduces the proposed 
sub-block FEC interleaving scheme. Section 3 
formulates the packet loss model used in the 
interleaving scheme to calculate the optimal 
sub-block size. Section 4 presents and discusses the 
 According to (1), the sub-block scheme can achieve 
the error correction capacity of (n-k) packet losses, 
which is the same as the traditional FEC scheme. 
For the example of RS(3, 2) with D=2 in Figure 1 
(b), the maximum tolerance of packet losses is also 
2. 
In additional to error correction capacity, it is 
necessary to observe the processing delay 
introduced by the FEC scheme. Let the packet 
buffering time and FEC encoding time at the 
sending send be Tbuf and Tenc, and let the block 
waiting time and FEC decoding time at the receiving 
end be Twait and Tdec, the end-to-end packet delay 
induced by FEC processing within a block is given 
by 
 
Tfec = Tbuf + Tenc + Twait + Tdec.  (2) 
 
Since the sub-block FEC scheme is based on the 
original (n, k) block, both sub-block and traditional 
FEC scheme have the same value of Tbuf. It is noted 
that the sub-block scheme uses smaller blocks than 
the traditional FEC scheme, and therefore the 
packets within the sub-block have smaller value of 
Twait. In Figure 1 (a), the traditional FEC scheme 
needs to wait for 5-packet arrival to decode one of 
FEC blocks, and as shown in Figure 1 (b), the 
sub-block FEC scheme waits for just 4-packet 
arrival for FEC decoding process. Moreover, to 
observe if processing total D sub-blocks would cost 
more FEC coding time than processing the original 
block, the corresponding experiments are made in 
this study. In the experiment, the machine is fitted 
with Pentium M 1.8 GHz and 512 MB of memory. 
Figure 2 shows the FEC coding time as a RS(48,32) 
code is applied and the value of D is set to 2i where i 
varies from 0 to 4. In Figure 2, it can be seen that (1) 
the encoding time is larger than the decoding time in 
general and (2) both the encoding time Tenc and the 
decoding time Tdec decrease as the amount of 
sub-blocks increases due to the lower coding 
complexity of small block in the FEC process.  
 
III. SUB-BLOCK SIZE CONTROL 
A. Packet loss model for interleaved blocks 
In this study, the burst packet loss pattern is 
characterized as a Gilbert (or two-state Markov) 
model with two sates [6], i.e. a Good-state and a 
Bad-state. In the Good-state, a packet is dropped 
with a probability of 0, while in the Bad-state, a 
packet is dropped with a probability of 1. The 
transition probability from the Bad state to the Good 
state is denoted as p, while the transition probability 
from the Good state to the Bad state is denoted as q. 
Accordingly, the one-step transition matrix is 
defined as: 
 
.
1              
           1






−
−
=Ψ
qq
pp
                (3) 
 
If q and 1-p are equal, the two-state Markov model 
is the same with the Bernoulli model. According to 
Figure 4. Average end-to-end delaycomparison 
with varied burst loss length; Figure 5. PSNR comparison with varied burst 
loss length: playout buffering time = 250ms 
expected number of source packets after decoding a 
RS(n,k) block is given by 
 
[ ].)(),(),(
part  sec
1
part  
0),(
44444 344444 2144 344 21
ond
n
knm
first
kn
mknFEC
mnnmP
n
k
nmPkE ∑∑ +−=
−
=
−×+×=
 (10) 
In the proposed sub-block FEC interleaving scheme, 
the original RS(n,k) block is divided into D 
sub-blocks. Therefore, without loss of generality, D 
belongs to a set of common factors of n and k. The 
effective packet loss rate (PLR) is given by 
 
( ) .1,, ),(
k
ED
DknPLR D
k
D
nFEC
eff
×
−=
          (11) 
 
Based on (11), it is possible to search for the 
optimal value of D which minimizes the effective 
PLR and therefore maximizes the video good-put. In 
other words, given constant values of n and k, the 
optimal interleaving depth, Dopt, can be obtained by 
solving the following problem: 
 
.1 subject to  ),,( Minimize ≥≥ DkDknPLReff    (12) 
Using (12), the proposed sub-block scheme can 
adaptively choose an appropriate Dopt under the 
current network condition, and the FEC sub-block is 
RS(n/Dopt, k/Dopt) accordingly. 
 
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
A series of NS-2 simulations were performed to 
compare the error recovery performance of the three 
FEC schemes namely traditional FEC without 
interleaving, traditional FEC interleaving, and 
sub-block FEC interleaving. In performing the 
simulations, the link between the sender and the 
receiver was assumed to have a length of 10 meters 
and the transmission was performed in accordance 
with the IEEE 802.11b 11 Mbps protocol. The test 
video clip (“Foreman”) was encoded in an MPEG-4 
CIF format and was transmitted at a rate of 30 
frames per second. The coding parameters n, k for 
RS erasure code were specified as 24 and 16, 
respectively. The interleaving depth of the 
traditional FEC interleaving scheme was fixed to 2. 
coding in combating network packet losses,” 
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 16, 
pp. 628-641, June 2008. 
[3] Seong-Ryong Kang and Loguinov D., 
“Modeling Best-Effort and FEC Streaming of 
Scalable Video in Lossy Network Channels,” 
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 15, 
pp. 187-200, Feb 2007. 
[4] Park K. and Wang W., “QoS-sensitive transport 
of real-time MPEG video using adaptive 
redundancy control,” Computer 
Communications, vol. 24, pp. 78-92, Jan. 2001. 
[5] K. Stuhlmuller, N. Farber, M. Link, and 
B.Girod,“Analysis of video transmission over 
lossy channel,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas 
in Communications, vol. 18, no. 6, June 2000. 
[6] Ebert J., and Willig A., “A Gilbert-Elliot Bit 
Error Model and the Efficient Use in Packet 
Level Simulation,” Technical Report, 
TKN-99-002, Technical University of Berlin, 
1999. 
 
一、與會過程： 
GLOBECOM 2011 今年在美國主辦，會議地點在 Houston, Texa的希爾頓飯
店（Hilton American-Houston），會議期間是十二月五日到十二月九日，我事先搭
十一月二十八號的飛機由桃園機場起飛經過兩個轉機點（日本東京，美國芝加哥）；
抵達休士頓機場的時候已經是凌晨，休士頓的墨西哥人口居多，為了先適應環境
所以提早了一些日子抵達美國，希望能藉此增加一些生活上的經驗，以及語言能
力，德州的大眾運輸沒有很發達，光在等待交通車的時間就浪費的一大半，而且
城市間距離非常的遙遠，就算搭交通運輸工具也得花上不少時間． 
 
報告當天（五日），本次發表的文章是屬於 M9. 2nd IEEE Workshop on 
Multimedia Communications & Services，報告的時間是安排在下午五點半，在這
之前有不少文章輪流報告，可能因為是Workshop的原因，其實報告的質量並沒
有很好，有些連實驗數據都沒有也都在台上報告，每個人報告的時間約十五分鐘，
Chair是個中國教授． 
 
第二天（六日），早上去聽了 Keynote，主講人是美國最大電信業者 AT&T
的 CTO，John Donovan，不過滿無趣的，感覺都在幫它們公司打廣告，沒有聽到
什麼技術或是新穎性的部分，接下來旁聽了一些報告會議，不過也發生了不少插
曲，像是投影機壞掉，或是報告的撥放筆電沒電，都是在考驗報告者的臨場反應！
其中一場，有聽到一個超強的報告者，在報告的時候超有自信，一副傲視全場的
感覺，而且不管對方怎麼問問題也都應達如流，這真是台灣環境沒辦法學習到的
地方，後來這篇報告的文章也得到了 Best Paper，真的是實至名歸． 
 
本次會議有兩天的 Tutorials，分別都在 Workshop 的當天，因為第一天要準
備報告所以就沒去參加，Tutorials主題分別如下： 
12/5 
Towards Distributed Autonomous Underwater Sensor Networks: Principles, 
Development, and Future on Acoustic Communications and Networking 
       Mario Gerla (University of California, Los Angeles, USA) 
         Jun-Hong Cui (University of Connecticut, USA)  
         Shengli Zhou (University of Connecticut, USA) 
 
Coherent versus Non-Coherent Coded Cooperative Wireless Systems     
       Lajos Hanzo (University of Southampton, United Kingdom) 
 
Cross-Layer Optimization for Spectral and Energy Efficiency         
         Ye (Geoffrey) Li (Georgia Institute of Technology, USA) 
         Guowang Miao (Samsung, USA) 
 主題：現行的無線網路架構 
 
在第二天的晚上有一個討論會：IEEE Graduates of the Last Decade (GOLD) 
Presents Life with IEEE after graduation and …這個討論會主要由三個
Editor-in-Chief來主講： 
 
Sarah Kate Wilson, Editor-in-Chief, IEEE Communications Letters 
Chengshan Xiao, Editor-in-Chief, IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications 
Michele Zorzi, Editor-in-Chief, IEEE Transactions on Communications 
 
主要是講解投稿的時候的注意事項，一些投稿者該注意的事情，以及權利，真是
受惠良多，不過感覺還是得有好的質量． 
 
二、心得與建議： 
 此次的地點在美國的休士頓，與會會議有將近 60%都是中國人，到處都可以
聽到講中文的，感覺中國的研究勢力真是越來越龐大． 
此次會議真是盛大，雖然有一連串的活動與教學，但是報到的時候要檢查證
件異常的嚴格，轉讓或代表註冊人都需要有個轉讓說明書才行，這此形成光處理
轉讓註冊就多跑了很多路．最後，本次參加會議的滿盛大的，學習到其他不同的
學者的報告與風範，真是獲益良多． 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：施啟煌 計畫編號：99-2221-E-241-009- 
計畫名稱：具錯誤控制功能的 P2PTV 服務之高時間效率傳輸機制 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 2 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
