 1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究
計畫  
□期中進度報
告  
□期末報告  
 
（再生能源微電網之強健最佳化） 
 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100 - 2221 - E - 009 - 136 － 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立交通大學，經營管理研究所 
 
計畫主持人：姜真秀 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共 _1__ 份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101 年  10 月  30 日
附件一 
 ii 
Abstract 
This project proposed the robust optimization model for renewable microgrid applied to Taichung Industrial 
Park in Taiwan which has more than 800 companies, depending on the main grid exclusively. The current 
study has developed a sound and reasonable decision support tool for microgrid planning which provides 
robust solutions and decision-making procedure for a best solution. The model enables to consider various 
uncertainties such as energy price, regulation change, estimates of demand, emergencies, etc. with 
representing diverse stakeholders’ interests. Thus this project includes a broad range of studies including 
energy policy, modeling, optimization, and scenario planning. While pursuing the project, fruitful outcomes 
have obtained including a SSCI paper, a conference paper, master thesis, and a paper in preparation. The 
results of the proposed model found out that wind power is very sensitive to wind speed while irradiation does 
not make any change upto +/- 20 %. 
 
Keywords: Renewable Microgrid, Economic Robustness, Technical Robustness, Robust Optimization 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 iv 
Symbols 
A : a large number 
Allotims : allocation of capacity of source i to the operation in month m in scenario s, 
kW 
APVims : area of solar panels from source i in month m in scenario s, m2 
B : the number of other sources that must be operating when a source is in use 
C : assumed multiplied factor of peak electricity demand over average demand 
Capi : capacity of adopted DER source i, kW 
CCTaxs : cost of carbon tax in scenario s, $ 
CEbuyNs : cost of purchasing national grid electricity in scenario s, $ 
CFuels : cost of fuel consumption in scenario s, $ 
CInvs : cost of capital investments in scenario s, $ 
CLoadmus : average customer load in month m for end use u in scenario s, kW 
COMs : cost of operation and maintenance in scenario s, $ 
Costs : total cost of scenario s, $ 
CSals : revenue from sales of electricity in scenario s, $ 
CSSs : cost of start and stop in scenario s, $ 
CTaxs : carbon tax per kg of carbon credit in scenario s, $/kg C 
Cw : worst case in terms of cost, $ 
D : conversion factor of area of PV panels vs. 1kW electricity capacity 
EbuyNmus : amount of electricity bought from the national grid in month m for end use u 
in scenario s, kWh 
ECInt : carbon intensity of electricity, kg C/kWh 
EDchars : regulated demand charge rate of electricity in scenario s, $/kW 
eff : efficiency of DER technology, % 
Efromimus : amount of electricity produced from source i for end use u in month m in 
scenario s, kWh 
Efromstoretmus : amount of energy output from storage type t in month m for end use u in 
scenario s, kWh 
Epricems : unit rate for electricity purchase from the national grid in month m in 
scenario s, $/kWh 
ESalims : amount of electricity sold to the national grid from source i in month m in 
scenario s, $/kWh 
ESInlts : initial energy storage level in storage type t in scenario s, kWh 
ESMaxts : maximum energy storage level in storage type t in scenario s, kWh 
 vi 
s, kWh 
s : index of scenario, 1~N 
Spriceis : selling price of electricity from source i to the national grid in scenario s, 
$/kWh 
t : index of storage type including electricity and heat 
u : index of end uses of energy including electricity, heating, and cooling 
Vcis : cut in wind speed of wind turbine i in scenario s, m/s 
Vfis : cut off wind speed of wind turbine i in scenario s, m/s 
Vnis : nominal wind speed of wind turbine i in scenario s, m/s 
Vwms : on-site wind speed in month m in scenario s, m/s 
wi : index of wind source within i 
xims : binary variable, equal to 1 when source i is operating in month m in scenario 
s, otherwise 0 
 
Greek Symbols 
αi : heat recovery efficiency of source i, % 
βfu : heat efficiency of fuel f for end use u from direct fuel consumption, % 
γiu : utilization efficiency of recovered heat from source i for end use u, % 
δtu : utilization efficiency of stored energy from storage type t for end use u, % 
εt : storage coefficient of storage type t, % 
θ : minimum percentage of electricity purchase from the national grid, % 
ωi : unit start and stop cost of source i, $/time 
 2 
uninterruptible power supply functions [14]-[15]. The conventional planning methods are designed based on 
electricity production in centralized power generation stations and delivery through passive distribution 
networks to end-users. In this structure, all customers, which are supplied from a distribution substation, 
principally allows small-scale integration of DER at distribution levels, the overall penetration level is kept 
low to prevent adverse impact on system operation coordination and traditional control equipment actions. 
Hence, DER cannot provide any type of grid support including voltage regulation, reactive power control, and 
power frequency stabilization.  
A better way to realize the emerging potential of distributed generation and associated loads is a 
subsystem called microgrid. The microgrid concept assumes a cluster of loads and microsources operating as 
a single controllable system that provides both power and heat to its local area [14]. It includes a variety of 
DER units and different types of end users of electricity, heating, cooling, and/or water load. DER includes 
both distributed generation (DG) and distributed storage (DS) units with different capacities and 
characteristics. The microgrid point of common coupling (PCC) consists of the electrical connection point of 
microgrid to the utility system, at the low-voltage bus of the substation transformer. In addition to DG, DS, 
and PCC, microgrid components are loads and controllers. 
The microgrid approach promotes 1) a highly efficient energy delivery and supply system based on 
co-locating DER and loads, 2) a secure and reliable power supply configuration with service differentiations 
based on customer technology preference and power quality desires, and 3) an energy delivery structure that 
has sufficient power generation and balancing sources to operate independent from the main grid in an 
autonomous manner during power outages or an energy crisis.  
 
3.2 Robust optimization for process design under uncertainties 
As any other design of engineering and industrial processes, microgrid planning often suffers from 
uncertainties concerning main grid failure, power quality issues, estimates of demand, energy price, regulation 
change, etc. It is therefore of importance to study and develop robust optimization strategies that take the 
uncertainty into account already at the design level.  
Robustness can be inferred as the risk aversion from the economic and technical points of view. It is 
important to distinguish between different robustness concepts to be applied depending on the nature of the 
variables. It is convenient to classify the control and design variables in three groups: (i) scenario-independent 
variables, (ii) scenario-dependent technical variables (e.g., temperature, pressure, flow rate, liquid holdup, 
etc.), and (iii) scenario-dependent monetary or economic variables (e.g., cost, profit, production yield, etc.). In 
the case of scenario-dependent economic variables, the robustness concept should focus on the scenarios with 
relatively higher costs (e.g. higher costs than a target cost), in order to reduce them while keeping overall 
average cost as low as possible. On the other hand, the robustness measures for the scenario-dependent 
technical variables should be based on the requirement that the operating conditions must be insensitive to 
variations within certain ranges defined by the scenarios. The robustness measures for the scenario-dependent 
economic variables can be referred as the economic robustness measures and the robustness measures for the 
scenario-dependent technical variables, as the technical robustness measures.  
The development of economic and technical robustness measures is a vigorous field of research. It was 
proven that economic robust measures should be monotonic [16]-[23]. For instance, using symmetric measure 
as an economic robustness measure like variance [24]-[25] yields suboptimal solutions as it is directly related 
to reducing the variability from the mean, which itself cannot be an objective of robust optimization. Since no 
 4 
  
 
Then, a technical robustness measure, T2, is calculated. 
The larger of the values, T1 and T2, is taken as the nadir objective value of the technical robustness 
measure because, in most cases, the value of technical robustness increases or decreases monotonically 
between T1 and T2. The nadir (i.e. largest) objective value of the economic robustness measure is decided 
from solving Case I, while the one for expected cost is obtained from solving Case II. In this way, one needs 
four single-objective optimizations to find the proposed approximate nadir vector, while the determination of 
the exact nadir vector requires six single-objective optimizations. If there are n technical robustness measures, 
then, the exact nadir vector will be achievable after 2n + 4 consecutive solutions of single objective 
sub-problems given in Figure 3. In contrast to it, the proposed nadir vector is obtained only after four 
solutions of single objective sub-problems given in Case I and Case II regardless of n. Furthermore, 
calculating the exact nadir vector requires of deciding the priority among several technical robustness 
measures, which is often tricky. This can be also avoided by using the proposed nadir vector. 
 
4.3 Mathematical formulation of the model 
Due to the increasing complexity of the microgrid composition and the interaction among various inner-grid 
and inter-grid components, a good mathematical model is critical to the optimization of microgrid planning 
and operation, in order to achieve certain set goals. In this study, a discrete time, mixed integer linear 
programming (MILP) model is proposed for a time horizon of one year with the scale in months. 
 
Objective function 
 6 
invested capital, which is derived from the summation of the unit fixed capital cost multiplied by the planned 
capacity for each DER technology selected. The amortization of the fixed cost of each kind of DER 
equipment is considered over the estimated life time of each kind with respect to a given interest rate.  
 
CInvs = Capi ×FCostis ×
Inst
(1− 1(1+ Inst)LTimeis )
i
∑  (7) 
 
The cost of buying electricity from the national grid is represented by (8). The cost structure consists of two 
parts, demand charge and mobile electricity charge. Demand charge is determined by the regulated demand 
charge rate of electricity multiplied by the peak electricity demand in one certain month, where the peak 
electricity demand is estimated as the average electric power provided by the national grid and for all kinds of 
usage (i.e. power, heating, and cooling) in one month multiplied by an assumed factor C, as shown in (9). On 
the other hand, mobile electricity charge is calculated as the actual amount of electricity consumed in one 
month multiplied by the utility electricity tariff rate. 
 
∑ ∑∑ ×+×=
m m u
msmusmsss EpriceEbuyNMaxEbuyNEDcharCEbuyN
 (8) 
C
EbuyN
MaxEbuyN u
mus
ms ×
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
⎞
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
⎛
=
∑
720
 (9) 
 
The cost of fuel consumption can be broken down into two parts as shown in (10). The first part accounts for 
the direct fuel consumption other than DER usage for heating and cooling purposes, and the second part 
accounts for the fuel consumed by different DER technologies for power generation. They are all determined 
by the cumulative amount of fuel usage multiplied by unit fuel charge, with respect to each kind of fuel. It 
should be noted that the relationship between the electricity produced (for all kinds of ultilization including 
meeting demands, sales to the national grid, and storage) and the fueled consumed is governed by the distinct 
efficiency of each kind of DER technology with respect to its corresponding fuel type. 
 
CFuels = Fuel fmus +
( Efromimus )+ ESalims + Etostoreitms
u
∑
effifm
∑
"
#
$
$
$
%
&
'
'
'i
∑
u
∑
m
∑
(
)
*
*
*
+
,
-
-
-f
∑ × Fprice fs  (10) 
 
The cost of system operation and maintenance is constituted by the fixed cost and the variable cost of the 
DER equipment, as described in (11). The fixed cost of the equipment can be calculated by the summation of 
the unit fixed operation and maintenance cost of all DER technologies multiplied by their respective planned 
 8 
d. Heating and cooling output transferred from recovered waste heat during power generation by 
certain CCHP DER technologies 
e. Electricity, heating, and cooling output supported by energy outflow from electricity batteries 
and thermal storage.  
It should be noted that the demand-supply relationships are presented with the amount of energy flow in kWh. 
The average customer load in each month, CLoadmus in kW, should be multiplied by the coefficient 720, 
which stands for the cumulative amount of electricity in kWh of one kW per month (24 hr/day x 30 
day/month), in order to be converted to the amount of electricity in kWh. 
∑ ∑ ⋅++≤×
i f
fmusfumusimusmus FuelEbuyNEfromCLoad β720   
∑ ∑ ⋅+⋅+
i t
tmustuimusiu EfromstoreRHeat δγ   sum ,,∀      (14) 
 
Indicators of equipment operation status 
By introducing the binary variables, the operation status of different microgrid components can be monitored 
or even controlled. The logical expression in (15) makes the binary variable x equal to 1 if electricity is 
produced from source i. 
Efromimus
u
∑ +ESalims +Etostoreitms − A ⋅ xims ≤ 0 ∀i, t ∈ elec{ },m, s  (15) 
The status of the power generation from different DER components for immediate customer use is further 
specified by the logical expression in (16), which makes the binary variable x equal to 1 if electricity is 
produced from power source i for end customer use u. 
∑ ⋅≤
u
imsimus xAEfrom    smi ,,∀  (16) 
 
Furthermore, the logical expression in (17) addresses the relationship between the allocation of capacity of 
power source i to the operation mode in each month and the binary variable x. Affected by this relationship, 
the status of each variable x becomes dependent on the capacity allocation mode of its corresponding power 
source. 
imsims xAllot ≥    smi ,,∀  (17) 
 
Electricity balance and contracted agreement on electricity buy-in 
For the purpose of simplifying the problem, an equation of electricity balance is specified in (18). The total 
sum of customer demand for electricity plus sales of electricity to the utility grid plus electricity sent to 
batteries should be equal to the total sum of electricity produced from all power sources plus electricity 
bought from the national grid plus electricity outflow from batteries. This equation exempts the possibilities 
that electricity can be generated by direct fuel consumption and that the heat recovered by CCHP technologies 
or outflowed from heat storage can be reused for electricity generation, which means that the electricity 
 10 
7200 ×≤++≤ ∑ imsitmsims
u
imus AllotEtostoreSalEEfrom     (22) 
{ } smielect ,,,∈∀  
 
When any power source is operating in any period of time, the allocation of capacity of that source to the 
operation must be greater or to the least equal to the minimum power capacity of that DER technology. This 
requirement holds true only when the power source is in operation, and is controlled by the binary variable 
xims, as shown in (23). 
 
1=≥ imsisims xifMinEqmAllot    smi ,,∀  (23) 
 
For a conditional constraint like (23), it is usually difficult to be coded in linear programming (LP). Therefore, 
the logical expression in (23) is reformulated as in (24) & (25) by applying the big M method. 
 
imsisisims xMaxEqmMinEqmAllot ⋅+≤    smi ,,∀  (24) 
 
)1( imsisisims xMaxEqmMinEqmAllot −⋅−≥    smi ,,∀  (25) 
 
Meanwhile, the possible range of the capacity allocation for each kind of DER power source can be expressed 
as shown in (26). The allocation of capacity of one certain power source should be no less than zero and less 
than or equal to the total capacity of that power source. 
 
0 ,   , ,ims iAllot Cap i m s≤ ≤ ∀   (26) 
 
Solar energy equipment 
The relation stated in (27) indicates that the electricity produced from photovoltaic (PV), for the purpose of 
meeting customer load, selling to the main grid, and being sent to the battery storage, cannot exceed the 
possible total power generation of PV technology. 
 
{ } { }       , , ,imus ims itms ims
u
Efrom ESal Etostore prodSolar i pv t elec m s+ + ≤ ∀ ∈ ∈∑  (27) 
 
The possible power output from solar sources is related to the amount of local solar irradiation, as well as the 
the area of solar panels installed with regard to their corresponding operating efficiencies. 
 
{ } { }720      , , ,ims ims ms ifprodSolar APV R eff f solar i pv m s= × × × ∀ ∈ ∈  (28) 
 
 12 
customers’ immediate usage or sent to storage. 
 
{ }      , , ,imus itms i imus
u u
RHeat Etostore Efrom i t heat m sα+ ≤ ⋅ ∀ ∈∑ ∑  (34) 
 
Energy storage constraints 
The initial volume of energy stored, in the form of electricity or heat, must be input as a parameter in 
accordance with the ending volume of energy storage in the previous time period before running the model. 
Equation (35) serves as a typical example (i.e. in months and starting from January). In other words, the data 
in the starting point of any time period should conform to that in the ending point of perious period. This rule 
of continuity ensures the possibility of analyzing a long time span that can be longer than one year or even as 
long as several years. 
 
{ }       , ,tms tsEStore ESInl t m Jan s= ∀ ∈   (35) 
 
The main constraint of energy balance for electricity and heat storage is stated in (36) with time consideration. 
It is assured that the total amount of energy in storage at the beginning of any time period be equal to the 
residual amount of energy at the beginning of the previous time period after considering the natural loss by 
time, plus the net energy flow during that time interval (i.e. energy inflow for storage minus energy outflow to 
meet customer demand). 
 
, 1,       , ,t m s t tms itms tmus
i u
EStore EStore Etostore Efromstore t m sε+ = ⋅ + − ∀∑ ∑  (36) 
 
In addition, the constraint in (37) states that the amount of energy stored in the battery or heat storage must 
always be greater the minimum amount reserved for emergency and less than the maximum energy storage 
capacity in any period of time. 
 
       , ,ts tms tsESMin EStore ESMax t m s≤ ≤ ∀  (37) 
 
Diversity constraints for DER generation 
Diversity constraints plan an important role in ensuring a microgrid scheduling with diverse DER power 
generation. The objective of enabling diverse DER operation normally conflicts with the objective of 
economic optimization, as the function of cost minimization in most cases would prefer a power generation 
scheme with running only one or a few highly centralized power sources, through the realization of economy 
of scale. However, this kind of economic concern simply highlights the differences between microgrids and 
 14 
According to the list of hypothesized demand schemes in Table 1, the load-time curve of each scenario 
can be drawn as illustrated in Figure 4. It is expected that the diversity and variation among scenarios and 
within scenarios should be able to account for the possible uncertainties facing the microgrid model. 
 
V. Results, Discussion, and Outcomes 
5.1 Results & Discussion 
The resulting model has 540 of binary variables and 7,375 of continuous variables. Figure 5 shows the set of 
robust alternatives with applying the microgrid model to Taichung Industrial Park in Taiwan attained from the 
robust optimization model proposed. Pareto curves show trade-off relationship between expected cost and 
worst scenario cost (economic robustness) and expected cost and environmental regulation (technical 
robustness). 
Figure 6 shows the capacity of DER equipment when the expected cost has minimized and the 
worst-case cost has minimized, respectively. When the worst case cost is minimized, the electricity generation 
tends to concentrate on DER equipment where the amount of carbon generation is relatively less than others. 
The following figure (Figure 7) shows the power generation of each scenario. In addition, Figure 8 and 9 
describe the power generation when wind speed has reduced by 10% or increase by 10%, respectively. In 
contrast, the optimization is insensitive to changes in irradiation. 
This project, in general, has been a challenging but also fruitful task. The biggest challenge was to work 
with an MBA student who did not have any background on operations management. Thus, the project leader 
had to teach him from optimization to mathematical modeling. Also, obtaining data has been a 
time-consuming work. It required layers of administrative process. In this process, it was surprising to find 
that Taichung industrial complex exclusively depends on main grid and there is no policy for renewable 
energies. While renewable energies are often inefficient and expensive, these definitely affect on the quality 
of our environment. As this environmental policy affects on the competitiveness of the complex significantly, 
more field-based studies are required to prepare for the future when the complex is ready to change to cleaner 
sources of electricity. 
 
5.2 Outcomes  
1. John Edward Burns and Jin-Su Kang* (2012), Comparative economic analysis of supporting policies for 
residential solar PV in the United States: Solar Renewable Energy Credit (SREC) potential, Energy Policy, 
44:217–225 
 
2. Jin-Su Kang*, Chung-Chuan Chang, Dong-Yup Lee, Tai-yong Lee (2012) Robust Optimization of 
Microgrids – An Application to Taichung Industrial Park, Proceedings of the 11th International 
Symposium on Process Systems Engineering, 15-19 July 2012, Singapore. Oral Presentation 
 
3. Chung-Chuan Chang (with Advisor: Jin-Su Kang) (2012) A Decision Support Model for Microgrids – 
An Application to Taichung Industrial Park, A Thesis Submitted to Global MBA Program, College of 
Management, National Chiao Tung University  
 
4. Robust Economic Optimization of Microgrid in preparation with Chung-Chuan Chang 
 16 
Design and Planning. Industrial & Engineering Chemical Research, 40, 5950-5959. 
[20] Kang, J., Suh, M. and Lee, T., 2004. Robust Economic Optimization of Process Design under 
Uncertainty. Engineering Optimization, 36, 51-75. 
[21] Takriti, S. and Ahmed, S., 2004. On Robust Optimization of Two-Stage Systems. Mathematical 
Programming, 99, 109-126.  
[22] Li, Z. and Ierapetritou, M. G., 2008. Robust Optimization for Process Scheduling Under Uncertainty. 
Industrial & Engineering Chemical Research, 47, 4148-4156. 
[23] Malcolm, S.A. and Zenios, S. A., 1994. Robust Optimization for Power Systems Capacity Expansion 
under Uncertainty. Journal of Operations Research Society, 45, 1040-1049. 
[24] Rao, S.S., 2009. Engineering Optimization:Theory and Practice, 4th, Wiley.. 
[25] Wellons, H. S. and Reklaitis, G. V., 1989. The Design of Multiproduct Batch Plants under Uncertainty 
with Staged Expansion. Computers and Chemical Engineering, 13, 115-126.  
[26] Straub, D. A. and Grossmann, I. E., 1990. Integrated Stochastic Metric of Flexibility for Systems with 
Discrete State and Continuous Parameters Uncertainties. Computers & Chemical Engineering, 14, 967-985. 
[27] Shah, N.and Pantelides, C. C., 1992. Design of Multipurpose Batch Plants with Uncertain Production 
Requirements. Industrial & Engineering Chemical Research, 31, 1325-1337. 
[28] Georgiadis, M.C. and Pistikopoulos, E.N., 1999. An Integrated Framework for Robust and Flexible 
Process Systems. Industrial & Engineering Chemical Research, 38, 133-143. 
[29] Miettinen, K., 1999. Nonlinear Multiobjective Optimization. Kluwer Academic Publisher. 
[30] Kang, J.-S., Chang, C.-C., Lee, D.-Y., Lee, T.-y, 2012. Robust Optimization of Microgrids – An 
Application to Taichung Industrial Park, Proceedings of the 11th International Symposium on Process 
Systems Engineering, 15-19 July 2012, Singapore. Oral Presentation 
[31] Chang, C.-C (with Advisor: Jin-Su Kang), 2012. A Decision Support Model for Microgrids – 
An Application to Taichung Industrial Park, A Thesis Submitted to Global MBA Program, College of 
Management, National Chiao Tung University  
 
  
 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Schematic Diagram of the Microgrid (Source: Kang, et al.[30]) 
 
 
  
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
                          
Figure 3. Feasible regions of robust solutions using robustness measures. 
 
  
 22 
 
 
Figure 4(continued). Monthly customer demand curves of Taichung Industrial Park for five scenarios 
 
 
  
0	  	  
20,000	  	  
40,000	  	  
60,000	  	  
80,000	  	  
100,000	  	  
120,000	  	  
140,000	  	  
160,000	  	  
0	   2	   4	   6	   8	   10	   12	   14	  
Av
g	  
Cu
st
om
er
	  L
oa
d	  
(k
W
)
Month
Monthly	  Customer	  Demand	  -­‐	  Scenario	  4
Elec	  
Heat	  
Cool	  
0	  	  
50,000	  	  
100,000	  	  
150,000	  	  
200,000	  	  
0	   2	   4	   6	   8	   10	   12	   14	  A
vg
	  C
us
to
m
er
	  L
oa
d	  
(k
W
)
Month
Monthly	  Customer	  Demand	  -­‐	  Scenario	  5
Elec	  
Heat	  
Cool	  
 24 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Capacity of DER  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Increase of Wind Speed by 10% 
  
 28 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表  
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
  □達成目標 
□	 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□	 實驗失敗 
□	 因故實驗中斷 
□	 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□ 已發表 □ 未發表之文稿 □ 撰寫中 □ 無 
專利：□ 已獲得 □ 申請中 □ 無 
技轉：□ 已技轉 □ 洽談中 □ 無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
Outcome of the projects 
1. John Edward Burns and Jin-Su Kang* (2012), Comparative economic analysis of 
supporting policies for residential solar PV in the United States: Solar Renewable Energy 
Credit (SREC) potential, Energy Policy, 44:217–225 
2. Jin-Su Kang*, Chung-Chuan Chang, Dong-Yup Lee, Tai-yong Lee (2012) Robust 
Optimization of Microgrids – An Application to Taichung Industrial Park, Proceedings of 
the 11th International Symposium on Process Systems Engineering, 15-19 July 2012, 
Singapore. Oral Presentation 
3. Chung-Chuan Chang (with Advisor: Jin-Su Kang) (2012) A Decision Support Model for 
Microgrids –An Application to Taichung Industrial Park, A Thesis Submitted to Global 
MBA Program, College of Management, National Chiao Tung University  
4. 4. Robust Economic Optimization of Microgrid in preparation with Chung-Chuan Chang 
附件二 
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101年 7 月 24日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
The International Symposia on Process Systems Engineering (PSE) have been a triennial tradition since 
1982 organized by several disciplines of world class universities. It has proved to be an attractive global 
platform for the PSE academics, researchers, and practitioners from all corners of the world for sharing 
advances in PSE education, research, and application. 
This time, there were about 350 participants in this conference across various fields including 
modeling and optimization, product and process design, operations and control, biological and biomedical 
systems, business decision support, information processing & cyber infrastructure, energy and 
sustainability, and PSE education. There were 7 plenary speeches, 7 keynote speeches, 176 oral 
presentations, and 145 poster presentation.       
I arrived there in the evening of July, 14
th
. After the registration on July, 15
th
, the schedule was very 
tight starting at 8:30am and finishing at 6pm. Everyday, I was busy with attending the presentation or 
discussing with other scholars about state-of-art research topics in the fields. For instance, Dr. Brenda L. 
Dietrich from IBM research gave an excellent presentation regarding how PSE research can be applied to 
real practices under the title “Optimizing the End-to-End Value Chain through Demand Shaping and 
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－009－136－ 
計畫名稱 再生能源微電網之強建化 
出國人員
姓名 
姜真秀 
服務機構
及職稱 
助理教授及傳案教學人員,  
經營管理研究所, 國立交通大學. 
會議時間 
101年 7月 15至 
101年 7月 19日 
會議地點 
Singapore 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文)11th International Symposium on Process Systems Engineering 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Robust optimization of microgrids – An application to Taichung 
Industrial Park 
附件四 
 3 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
Technical tour to PUB NEWater run by Singaporean government to treat used water, which is explained 
as a part of the itinerary above. The link is as follows. 
http://www.pub.gov.sg/about/historyfuture/Pages/NEWater.aspx 
 
 
四、建議 
It was impressive how Singapore attracts international conference and organizes every activity. Despite 
expensive prices, participants really enjoyed this conference with pleasure. Specifically, they utilized this 
opportunity to advertise their advanced technologies including water treatment and research institute as 
well as enjoy tourists’ purse. A lot of Europeans enjoyed every detail of Singapore. This is one thing that 
we can learn from Singapore. 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
E-copy of 11
th
 International Symposium on Process Systems Engineering – PSE2012 
(978-0-444-59505-8). Since this proceeding has more than 1,000 pages, this is not included in this 
document.  
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：姜真秀 計畫編號：100-2221-E-009-136- 
計畫名稱：再生能源微電網之強健最佳化 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 3 33% 
One SSCI paper 
published 
(another SSCI 
paper in 
preparation) 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
Oral 
presentation 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 2 200%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
