I關鍵詞：積體電路, 藕合, 串音效應
藉由電路之降階模型 RLC 樹狀電路之串音分析
摘要
近幾年來積體電路技術快速的發展，在進入深次微米製程之後，電路的體積隨著
技術不斷的進步越做越小，工作速度也越來越快。更多數位和類比電路被整合進入
單一晶片中。當電路工作於低電壓系統，晶片對於雜訊非常靈感。
串音效應(Crosstalk)是兩條平行線間的耦合(coupled)電容所產生的，在進入深次微
米製程後已成為連接訊號線延遲的主要來源。Crosstalk 在導線與導線間的所形成效
應在超大型積體電路的設計便成為一個很重要的議題。耦合效應會影響訊號轉移的
速度，進而造成晶片功能錯誤。
在個別晶片上的 RLC tree 會有耦合電容，對其信號的延遲和串音會有一定的影響，
當有耦合電容時可視為一耦合 RLC 樹。對於一個電路設計者能有簡單、有效的公式
去計算出串音是很重要的。對於耦合 RLC 樹狀電路我們提出一個有效和正確的模型
去做串音計算.利用靈敏度之極點與零點分布的分析，可以決定電路最佳的操作頻率
區間。
1I. Introduction
An unwanted coupling from a neighboring signal wire to a network node introduces an
interference that is generally called crosstalk. The resulting disturbance acts as a noise
source and can lead to hard-to-trace intermit error, since the injected noise depends on the
transient value of the other signals routed in the neighborhood. In integrated circuits, this
intersignal coupling can be both capacitive and inductive[1]. Capacitive crosstalk is
dominant effect at current switching speeds. Inductive coupling is already a major
concern in the design of the input-output circuitry of mixed-signal circuits, but has not
been an issue in digital design.
Rapid advances in VLSI technology have enabled us to reduce the minimum feature
sizes of VLSI circuits to sub-quarter microns. Due to the fact that on-chip interconnects
act like transmission lines where the neighboring wires exert electric and magnetic
couplings on each other, the external noise significantly degrade the performance and
reliability of digital integrated circuits. Among the various external noise sources,
problems related to the on-chip capacitive crosstalk are particularly important, because
the wires are packed increasingly closer together, the interwire coupling capacitance
become larger. The coupled RC circuit is shown in Fig.1.
Fig. 1 The RC coupled circuit
In the past two decades, Asymptotic Waveform Evaluation (AWE) and
moment-matching approximation [5], [7] have been applied to RLC interconnect
evaluation, transmission line simulation, pole/zero analysis [2] and RC extraction. But, in
general, it is difficult to select the required order approximation a priori since it is not
always know how many poles are dominant. Even though it is possible to extract a
detailed coupled RC network for interconnect lines, but the simulation of the RC network
analysis is very complex and time-consuming.
In this paper, we propose an approach to estimate crosstalk for coupled RC
interconnects by using sensitivity computation [2],[3],[6] with respect to the coupling
capacity based on pole-zero analysis [4]. The optimum operation frequency region can be
obtained and the complexity involved and computation time required can be reduced.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In section II, the transfer function, pole-zero
analysis and sensitivity computation is described. The sensitivity analysis method for
coupled RC interconnects is developed in section III. Simulation examples to illustrate
the performance of the proposed method are given in section IV. Section V gives the
conclusions of the advocated methodology.
II. Transfer Function , Pole-Zero and Sensitivity Computation
II.1 The State-Variable Equations and Transfer Function:
A linear invariant-time system can be described in the Laplace domain using the
30
dB
10 0
0
0dB <<
( )
20log >>
H j
 
   




(6)
where  is for simple pole and  is for simple zero. Frequency 0 is called break
frequency, corner frequency or the 3 dB frequency. The magnitude curves of the
functions gain K, poles and zeros at the origin are shown in Fig. 2 and simple pole
and simple zero are shown in Fig. 3.
Fig. 2 Bode plot of constant gain K Fig. 3 Bode plot of simple pole of
and poles and zeros at the origin 1
0
( ) 1H j j
 
   
 
and zero of
0
( ) (1 )H j j


 
II.3 Sensitivity Computation:
Since all physical elements have properties that change with environment and age,
sensitivity considerations often are important in design of control systems [2],[3],[6]. We
cannot always consider the parameters of a control system to be completely stationary
over the entire operating life of the system. Therefore, it is important to predict the
circuit’s performance deviation due to changes in the values of some circuit elements.
Sensitivity gives a measure of the circuit’s performance change for a deviation in the
circuit’s element values. Owing to the deviation from nominal element values, the system
response can be distorted and result in an undesirable or unstable circuit. It is important to
distinguish between differential sensitivity, due to small variations in elements, and
incremental sensitivity, due to a large deviation in elements. Differential sensitivity of the
circuit output parameter jT with respect to element ix can be expressed as
0
/
/
j
i
i
T j j ji
x
j i i i x
T T Tx
S
T x x x  
 
 
 
(7)
On the other hand, the resulting change in output parameter jT is analyzed by the
incremental sensitivity [6], when the element ix is submitted to a large deviation. The
incremental sensitivity is defined as
j
i
T ji
x
j i
Tx
T x
 

(8)
In this paper, small variations in the coupling capacity will be considered and the
differential sensitivity with respect to the coupling capacitor will be analyzed.
5Step 8: If k N go to Step 9 otherwise 1k k  , go to Step 7
Step 9: 1 ~ N  can be obtained and the total variation is defined as
1
N
i
i
T 

 (16)
From the above result, three cases of crosstalk will be discussed as follows according
to the total variation T.
Case 1 : Total variation is positive, i.e., 0T :
It means that if the circuit operation frequency higher than the frequency of the
first group frequency, the transmission will be affected by coupling capacitor as
shown in Fig. 3.
Case 2 : Total variation is negative, i.e., 0T :
It implies that if the operation frequency between the first group frequency
and the last group frequency, the transmission will be affected by coupling
capacitor as shown in Fig.4.
In order to demonstrate the versatility of the proposed methodology, the following
example will be considered.
IV. Simulation Examples
Let consider the two layers RC tree circuit as shown in Fig. 6. There are three coupling
capacitors C4, C9 and C10 and node1 ~ node6 are the selected output nodes to be
analyzed.
Example 1: Let selected output at node 1, we will consider the crosstalk effect with
respect to capacitor C9 as shown in Fig. 5.
Fig. 3 The sensitivity curve of the case 1 Fig. 4 The sensitivity curve of the case 2
Fig. 5 Two layers RC-tree circuit
7frequency 1f and the largest frequency Nf .
By using Matlab software simulation, the sensitivity diagram of H(s) with respect to
the coupling capacitor C9,
9
H
CS is shown in Fig. 6 and the performance of the advocated
methodology can be demonstrated.
Fig. 6. Sensitivity curve of
9
H
CS Fig. 7 Distribution of the Increments
from 1 to 23
Moreover, the distribution of the increments from 1 to 23 are shown in Fig. 7.
Example 2: Let selected output at node 4, we will consider the crosstalk effect with
respect to consider C4 as shown in Fig. 6. The increments
1 27~  can be obtained by
using (14) and (15) as shown in table IV.
Repeat the algorithm described in example1, the total variation
1
0.446
N
i
i
T 

  . It
belongs to case 2, since the total variation 0.446T is positive. By using Matlab
software simulation, the sensitivity diagram of H(s) with respect to the coupling capacitor
C4,
4
H
CS is shown in Fig. 8 and the performance of the advocated methodology can be
demonstrated. Moreover, the distribution of the increments from 1 to 27 are shown in
Fig. 9. It means that the crosstalk (coupling noise) is existed when the frequency larger
than the smallest frequency.
Remark: From the sensitivity curve of
4
H
CS in example 2, the total variation 0T and
approaches zero. The maximum sensitivity value is not occurred in the last group
frequency as shown in the example 1, but the effect from the coupling capacitor C4 is still
existed.
V. Conclusion
The sensitivity analysis is useful to analyze the circuit’s behavior or interconnect
transmission …etc., but it is very complicated. Hence, we have presented a new result
for coupled noise estimation. Our methodology is significantly easier better previous
results and it is effectively speed up analysis without tedious computation.
