Epidemic Dynamics and Thresholds in Agent-Based Simulations under 
Realistic Resources and Cost Conditions 
 
 
Yu-Shiuan Tsai1, Chuen-Tsai Sun1, Chung-Yuan Huang2 
1 Department of Computer Science 
National Chiao Tung University 
mathoowind@gmail.com, ctsun@cis.nctu.edu.tw 
2 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Chang Gung University 
gscott@mail.cgu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Critical threshold is one of the most important 
epidemiological indicators of whether or not an 
epidemic outbreak has occurred. Recent studies have 
been overly focused on ways that the power-law 
connectivity distribution features of social networks 
affect epidemic dynamics and spreading situations. 
Two important factors have been overlooked as a 
result: resource limitations and transmission costs 
associated with face-to-face interactions and daily 
contact. Our two main findings are: (a) a significant 
critical threshold does exist when resources and costs 
are taken into consideration, and that threshold has a 
lower bound whenever contagion events occur in scale-
free social networks; and (b) the spread of epidemics in 
scale-free social networks remains controllable as long 
as resources are properly restricted and consumed 
costs in the form of public health strategies are 
significantly increased.  
 
1. Introduction 
 
Interest in epidemiological issues associated with 
social networks has grown considerably ever since 
Watts and Strogatz [19] first described their idea of 
small-world networks characterized by highly clustered 
connections and short paths between node pairs. Their 
work was followed by Barabási and Albert’s [1] 
description of scale-free networks that follow power-
law connectivity distribution laws. Researchers are now 
regularly applying agent-based simulation approaches 
to analyze contagious disease diffusion processes. They 
note that the topological features of social networks 
exert considerable influence on transmission dynamics 
and spreading situations associated with epidemics [2-
18, 21-22], which allows for analyses of the subtle 
details of epidemic dynamics that non-agent-based 
simulation approaches [20] are incapable of producing. 
Whether or not critical thresholds exist when 
epidemics are spread through social networks is a 
major epidemiological issue currently being addressed 
by researchers from a range of disciplines [2, 7-9, 12-
18]. Pastor-Satorras and Vespignani [12-16] report that 
epidemics that spread in scale-free social networks do 
not have positive critical thresholds. Other researchers 
studying epidemic dynamics and critical thresholds in 
various types of scale-free social networks have 
consistently concluded that regardless of transmission 
capability, all contagious diseases have high 
probabilities of stable spreading and survival in scale-
free social networks [2-3, 7, 9, 17]. For example, scale-
free social networks such as those associated with 
human sexual contact are currently being studied as 
capable yet vulnerable platforms for spreading diseases 
such as HIV/AIDS. However, we know that new 
contagious diseases are constantly emerging in 
different parts of the world, but very few reach 
epidemic proportions or even survive in social 
networks; the majority dies almost immediately 
following their appearance. 
In addition to contradicting previous conclusions [2-
3, 7, 9, 12-16, 17], this observation serves as 
motivation to take a more detailed look at limitations in 
transmission and interaction processes among 
individuals rather than the topological features of social 
networks—the focus of many epidemiological studies 
published in the past decade [21, 22]. Two important 
factors associated with face-to-face interactions and 
daily contacts have been understudied: resource 
limitations and transmission costs. We acknowledge 
the importance of Pastor-Satorras and Vespignani’s 
work on the topological power-law features of scale-
2008 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology
978-0-7695-3496-1/08 $25.00 © 2008 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/WIIAT.2008.11
3265
networks under realistic resource limitation and 
transmission cost assumptions. The Susceptible-
Infected-Susceptible (SIS) state transfer concept was 
applied as the model’s core architecture to simulate 
behavioral and transformative results emerging from 
individual interactions. 
For simulation runs we constructed a complex 
network G(N, E) with |N| nodes (representing 
individuals in social networks) and |E| links (indicating 
face-to-face interactions and daily contacts between 
two individuals, with those having direct connections 
labeled neighbors). Only 10% of existing nodes were 
given an infected status at the beginning of each run; all 
others were designated as susceptible. All epidemic 
dynamics and critical thresholds discussed in this paper 
represent average values for 30 simulation runs. A list 
of experimental parameters is presented in Table 1. 
Also at the beginning of each time step, the usable 
resources of each node vi were reset to R(vi), meaning 
that all individuals renewed and/or received 
supplemental resources (e.g., most individuals’ energy 
levels were revived after a night of sleep). In our later 
experiments, the statistical distribution of individual 
resources could be delta (fixed value rConstant), uniform, 
normal, or power-law, as long as the average value <r> 
of individual resources satisfied Eq. 2: 
 
1
( )
N
i Constant
i
r R v N r
=
= =∑               (2) 
 
Nodes randomly interacted with several neighbors 
during each time step, with node resources and costs 
being consumed during each interaction. From all of its 
Neighbors(vi), each node vi randomly selected and 
interacted with one neighboring node vj. Following 
each interaction—and regardless of the result—nodes vi 
and vj had transmission costs c(vi); c(vj) 0 ≤ c(vi) ≤ R(vi); 
and 0 ≤ c(vj) ≤ R(vj) deducted from their resources. If 
R(vi) < c(vi) after an interaction, node vi could not 
interact with other neighbors because all of its 
resources were used up. Otherwise, the interaction 
process was repeated, with nodes randomly selecting 
other neighboring nodes until their resources were 
exhausted. 
At each time step, the epidemiological state of each 
node was determined by a combination of behavioral 
rules, original epidemiological status, neighbors’ 
epidemiological status, contagion rate ν, and recovery 
rate δ. Assume that infected and contagious node va is 
adjacent to susceptible and contagion-prone node vb. 
When the two nodes come into contact, a contagion 
rate ν determines whether or not vb is infected by va. At 
the same time, infected nodes can recover at a recovery 
rate δ and become susceptible again. Effective 
spreading rate λ is defined as ν δ  . Generally, 
recovery rate δ can be assigned as 1 and effective 
spreading rate λ ν= . We define ρ(t) as the density of 
infected nodes present at time step t. When time step t 
becomes infinitely large, ρ can be presented as a steady 
density of infected nodes. 
As indicated by the blue curve in Figure 1, the 
density of the SIS epidemiological model based on a 
scale-free social network structure approached 0 in a 
continuous and smooth manner as the effective 
spreading rate was decreased, indicating the lack of a 
critical threshold in scale-free social networks in the 
absence of transmission costs. The red curve in the 
same figure shows that epidemics do have critical 
thresholds in small-world networks. In addition to 
being similar to the red curve for small-world networks, 
the green curve shows that a nonzero, positive, and 
significant critical threshold exists when epidemics are 
spread throughout a scale-free social network if 
individual resources and transmission costs are taken 
into consideration. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Relationship between effective 
spreading rate and steady density in the SIS 
epidemiological simulation model for three 
types of complex network platforms. 
 
A significant increase in the critical threshold was 
observed as the overall amount of an individual’s 
usable resources decreased (Fig. 2)—for example, the 
critical threshold increased to 0.22 when the usable 
resources value was set at 8 units at the beginning of 
each time step (green curve). Furthermore, when the 
usable resources value was set at 40 units at the 
beginning of each time step, the shape of the density 
(yellow) curve was very close to that of the scale-free 
social network without transmission costs (blue), and 
the critical threshold was reduced to 0.09. As shown in 
Figure 3, a linear correlation exists between the critical 
threshold and the ratio of the cost of a single contagion 
event to total amount of an individual’s resources 
(hereafter referred to as “the ratio”). As shown in 
Figure 2, the density curve grew at a slower rate as the 
3467
 Fig. 5. Uniform (n = 5, r = 2) and normal 
(standard deviation = 2) distributions of 
individual resources with an average <r> value 
of 16. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Individual resources in a power-law 
distribution. 
 
 
Fig. 7. Effects of four statistical distribution 
types of usable resources on density curves 
and critical thresholds of epidemics spread in 
scale-free social networks characterized by 
limited individual resources and transmission 
costs. 
 
 
Fig. 8. Uniform (n = 5, r = 3) and normal 
(standard deviation = 3) distributions of 
individual resources with an average <r> value 
of 16. 
 
 
Fig. 9. Individual resources in a power-law 
distribution. 
 
Attribute Description 
ν Contagion rate. 
δ Recovery rate. 
λ Effective spreading rate = contagion rate ν / recovery rate δ. 
Network 
Type 
According to Network Type, a complex network for 
the SIS epidemiological model can be built in the 
same manner as Watts and Strogatz’s [19] small-
world homogeneous network and Barabási and 
Albert’s [1] scale-free network. If Network Type = 
SWN, a Watts and Strogatz’s [19] small-world 
network is built; if Network Type = SFN, a Barabási 
and Albert’s [1] scale-free network is built. 
N Total number of nodes in a complex network. 
E Total number of edges in a complex network. 
<k> Average vertex degree. 
Rewiring 
Rate 
Specific parameter for Watts and Strogatz’s [19] 
small-world network. Network generation begins with 
a one-dimensional regular network with periodic 
boundary conditions. Each edge is randomly rewired 
to a new node with a Rewiring Rate probability. 
Range: 0.01 to 1.0 in 0.01 increments. 
Time Step 
Limit Total number of time steps during each simulation. 
c Transmission costs per interaction process. 
R Daily individual usable resources.  
 
3669
