哮喘肺音辨識晶片之設計與實作 (II)
Design and Implementation of a Wheeze Recognition Chip (II)
計畫類別：個別型計畫計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－214－064
執行期間： 97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日
計畫主持人：張國清
共同主持人：
計畫參與人員：廖富民、吳嘉峻
摘 要
本計畫提出一個基於四級多貝西 4
(Daubechies 4)正交小波濾波器的哮喘肺音
辨識晶片，此正交小波濾波器被用於把肺聲
音分解成不同的頻率帶。第四級高通頻率帶
訊號的相對小波能量被用於作為確定哮喘
是否發作的一個指標。雙感測器頻譜相減演
算法被用於補償雜訊的干擾。實驗結果顯示
利用相對小波能量能有效地識別哮喘是否
發作。
關鍵字: 哮喘偵測; 小波濾波器
Abstract
This study presents the design, simulation
and implementation of a portable wheeze
detector based on a four-level Daubechies
4-tap orthogonal wavelet filter bank. The
proposed wavelet filter bank is applied to
decompose the lung sounds into different
frequency bands. The relative wavelet energy
of the fourth high-pass level wavelet
decomposition is used as an indicator to
identify wheezing episodes. A dual sensor
spectral subtraction algorithm is applied to
compensate the degrading effect of noise on
the wheezing lung sound detection. The
experimental results indicate that the relative
wavelet energy is capable of providing
feasible performance in recognizing wheeze
sounds. Afterward the wavelet filter bank is
realized using the lattice filter architecture.
Keywords - wheeze detection; wavelet filter
bank;
I. Introduction
Infants and young children are more
susceptible to suffer from asthma or
obstructive pulmonary disease, due to their
smaller airway caliber. Developing an
automatic portable instrument to continuously
scratches and artifacts produced on CD or
DVD recordings. This technique operates in
the frequency domain and is based on the
direct estimation of the short time duration of
a clean signal. The research in [9] showed that
a dual sensor spectral subtraction technique
could perform better than a single sensor
method due to the ability to recognize not only
the spectral energy distribution of noise but
also its time varying property. For this reason,
the former is applied to reduce the
deteriorating effect of the noise added to the
lung sound signals.
A block diagram of the dual sensor
spectral subtraction method is shown in Fig. 1.
The primary sensor is responsible for
detecting the corrupted lung sound signal and
the reference sensor is responsible for
recording the environmental noise. Let )(kx
and )(kn be samples of a clean lung sound
signal and environmental noise, respectively,
and let )()()( knkxky  be the samples of
noisy lung sounds. The time domain signals
were segmented and windowed with
half-overlapping Hamming windows, and the
resultant data were subjected to short time fast
Fourier transform (STFFT), as shown in Fig. 1.
The magnitude and phase of the signals were
computed from the latter and the phase of the
environmental noise was discarded from them.
The reconstruction of the clean lung sound
signal was performed by using only the
corrupted lung sound phase. In order to
enhance the lung sound, an estimate of the
environmental noise magnitude was obtained;
this value was then subtracted from the
corrupted lung sound magnitude:
)())(ˆ)(()(ˆ
jw
x ejjwjwjw eeNeYeX  (1)
where )(ˆ jweX , )( jweY , )(ˆ jweN , and
)( jwx e are the estimated clean lung sound
spectrum, corrupted lung sound magnitude,
estimated noise magnitude, and the corrupted
lung sound phase respectively. After spectral
subtraction, the inverse short time fast Fourier
transform (ISTFFT) was performed for each
window to obtain the enhanced lung sound
signal.
B. The Discrete Wavelet Transform
The discrete wavelet transform (DWT) is a
special version of the wavelet transform that
provides a compact representation of a signal
in time and frequency that can be calculated
efficiently. The basic operation of the DWT is
signal is demonstrated in order to graphically
display the duration of wheezing shown in Fig.
4(b). The horizontal dark line indicates the
time of wheezing episode. The RWE of the
fourth high-pass level wavelet decomposition
is shown in Fig. 4(c). From this figure, we can
observe that the values of RWE become larger
during the period of wheezing. The use of
RWE can effectively identify the wheezing
episodes.
Hardware design is coded using Verilog
HDL language. Implementation is realized in
a Cyclone II 2C35F672C6 FPGA. The timing
waveform of Daubechies 4 lattice filter bank
is shown in Fig. 5..
IV. CONCLUSIONS
In this study, a wheeze detector based on
wavelet filter bank has been realized using
FPGA device. The developed wheeze detector
is able to recognize wheezing episodes with
satisfactory performance. However, more
experimental trials should be included to
evaluate the identification performance of the
system in real noisy environments for the
wheeze detection system to be used as a
reliable monitoring instrument.
References
[1] A. R. A. Sovijarvi, L. P. Malmberg, G.
Charbonneau, J. Vanderschoot,
“Characteristics of breath sounds and
adventitious respiratory sounds,” Eur.
Respir. Rev. vol. 77, pp. 591-596, 2000.
[2] S. A. Taplidou, L. J. Hadjileontiadis, T.
Penzel, V. Gross, and S. M. Panas,“WED:
An efficient wheezing-episode detector
based on breath sounds spectrogram
analysis,” Proceeding of the 25th
International Conference of the IEEE
EMBS, Cancun, Mexico, pp. 2531-2534,
2003.
[3] A. Homs-Corbera, J. A. Fiz, J. Morera, R.
Jane, “Time-frequency detection and
analysis of wheezes during forced
exhalation,” IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng.
Vol. 51, pp. 182-186, 2004.
[4] A. Marshal and S. Boussakta, “Signal 
analysis of medical acoustic sounds with
applications to chest medicine”, Journal of 
the Franklin Institute, vol. 344, pp.
230-242, 2006.
[5] A. Kandaswamy, C.S. Kumar, R.P.
Ramanathan, S. Jayaraman, and N.
Malmurugan, “Neural classification of
lung sounds using wavelet coefficients,”
Comput. Biol. Med., vol. 34, pp. 523-537,
2004.
[6] S. Alsmadi and Y. P. Kahya, “Design of a 
DSP-based instrument real-time
classification of pulmonary sounds,” 
Comput. Biol. Med., vol. 38, pp. 53-61,
2008.
[7] E. Güler, B. Sankur, Y. Kahya, and S.
Raudys, “Two-stage classification of
respiratory sound paterns,” Comput. Biol.
Med., vol. 35, pp. 67-83, 2005.
Fig. 3 Lattice structure of an orthogonal wavelet filter bank
Fig. 4 Respiratory sound of an asthma patient present in (a) wheezing signal, (b) spectrogram of
the wheezing signal and (c) relative wavelet energy of the fourth high-pass level wavelet
decomposition.
附件一
國際學術會議報告
義守大學 資工系 張國清
一、前言
此次出國出差為參加於七月十二日至七月十五日期間在中國昆明舉行之「2008
機器學習與控制國際研討會(2008 International Conference of Machine Learning and
Cybernetics)」。會議內容包含有來自世界各國的研究者分成不同議題進行研討， 其
中一篇為國科會計畫之執行成果所撰寫的一篇論文 “Investigation of Noise Effect on
Lung Sound Recognition”，其他相關議題如下：
1. Application of intelligent systems
2. Machine learning applications
3. Intelligent techniques and its applications
4. Intelligent systems for robotics, control and image processing
5. Search engines and web analysis
6. Soft computing methods
7. Visual and audio information processing
8. Data fusion and ensemble method
9. Data mining and knowledge discovery
10. Systems and controls
11. System modeling and analysis
12. Logistics and inventory supply chain management
13. Computational intelligence for image processing and pattern recognition
14. Text and multimedia information retrieval
15. Fuzzy methods and procedural learning methods
16. Science, engineering and business intelligence
二、主要內容
在此次會議有兩個相當精采的演講，分別由義大利Fabio Roli教授所演講之
“Alan Turing, spam e-mail, patern recognition: an intriguing triangle”，及美國C. L.
Philip Chen 教授所演講之 “Multimedia Information Security: An Overview of
第三篇論文由 Shi Zhao 等人所發表之“Biometric identification based on 
low-quality hand vein patern images”，提出一個低成本 NIR影像擷取系統辨識手靜
脈紋(如下圖)，利用 wavelets thresholding based on Besov norm regularization改善影
像品質，辨識結果與專業 NIR影像擷取系統接近，但成本卻是專業影像擷取系統的
20%。
第四篇研究論文由Wen-Chao Yang等人發表 “A novel steganography method via 
various animation efects in PowerPoint files” ，主要針對簡報軟體PowerPoint 各種動
畫效應，在不改變原始PowerPoint檔案內容的條件下，藏密所要傳遞的訊息，達到
訊息傳遞及保密的效能。
