2mode camera is not capable of performing
such measurements, unless special setup is
arranged (Adrian et al. 2000).
Of course, the double-exposure mode
PIV camera is not the only device to record
sequential images with micro-second time
interval between exposures. A color 3-CCD
camera has three independent, red(R),
green(G), and blue(B) CCD chips. Every
CCD chip has the same resolution.
Recording a triple-exposure particle image
on the same image frame, the time interval
between exposures can be specified as short
as required. If the flow field is illuminated
sequentially by R, G, B color light, three
sequential particle images are recorded onto
the R, G, B CCD chips respectively although
they appear as a single frame, triple-exposure
particle image (Jaw and Wu 2000). The
color PIV method has the advantages that by
recording triple-exposure particle images on
the same image frame, the dynamic range of
velocity measurement is not limited by the
time interval between sequential images.
Two instantaneous velocity fields can be
obtained. The system setup is simple and
operation is straightforward.
In this study, the color PIV system is
setup to do a series of experiments in the
horizontal flowing soap film channel. The
thickness of the soap film is typically
between 2 to 6 m , depending on the
surfactant concentration. Higher
concentrations produce thinner films. The
width of the soap film channel, in the range
of 10cm, is 410 to 510 times larger than
the film thickness. Any fluid motion
perpendicular to the film will be greatly
damped. The flow is therefore expected to
be two-dimensional for all practical purposes.
Soap film channel is perhaps the closest
physical approximation to a true
two-dimensional channel flow (Rutgers et al.
2001, Gharib and Beizaie 1999). They offer
the possibility of performing real
two-dimensional experiments that are
otherwise confined to the realm of theory or
simulation.
Once a flowing film has been
established, objects may be inserted into the
film and two-dimensional flow around the
objects can be studied. LED is adopted as
the light source in the experiments since it is
cheap, convenient and safe for operation, has
R, G, B color available, and has high strobe
frequency. Hollow glass sphere particles of
12 m seeded in the soap film are
illuminated sequentially by red, green, and
blue LED. The color PIV method
incorporated with the LED has been proven
to be a cheap, safe, and powerful tool for the
PIV experiments. Results of flow past
circular cylinder in the confined soap film
channel are presented.
三、Horizontal soap film tunnel
A continuously flowing horizontal soap
film channel, as shown in figure 1 (Gharib
and Beizaie 1999), is used to study a variety
of two-dimensional flows. The film is
formed between two parallel thin elastic
bands, fed from the upstream reservoir and
pulled by the downstream two-dimensional
water jet. The water jet is supplied from a
constant head water tank. By rotating the
pipe, the shearing angle can be changed and
the pulling force can be adjusted by varying
the height of the constant head tank. The
downstream leg has fork like structure to
stabilize the film/water jet interface. In
addition, when water jet strikes the elastic
band and the fork legs, similar boundary
layer flows are generated. More fork legs
will make the soap film flow more uniform.
Fig. 1 A horizontal soap film channel.
The soap solution is made out of 98.5%
water and 1.5% Ivory liquid detergent. The
kinematic viscosity of the soap solution is
estimated to be s
m251045.3  . The
flowing film is several m thick in average.
Reservoir
Horizontal frame
Constant head
water supply
Water jet
Leg with
fork-like structure
4Our experience is that particles leave the
center of vortices occurred in all vortex flows,
due to the centrifugal acceleration in the
normal direction. Since the film moves as a
composite slab, with both the soap molecules
on the surface and the interstitial fluid,
particles larger than the film thickness are
clipped and flow with the film. Particle
motion in the normal to flow direction is
reduced but not magnified. Besides, the
particle image of small particles, such as the
0.2 m titanium dioxide, will occupy only a
single pixel for a 1K by 1K CCD camera.
Sub-pixel resolution is not possible because
of the very small size of the particles,
resulting in particle image sizes on the order
of 1 pixel. No detail discussion about the
particle size and the measurement accuracy
of the soap film flow is available at the
present time. For low Reynolds number
flow, the centrifugal acceleration is not large
and the relative motion may not be so
significant. We keep such measurement
error in mind and will discuss their influence
in detail in the future.
Fig. 3 Triple-exposure particle image.
Velocity profiles measured from
separated R, G, B images are shown in figure
4. The red and blue profiles are obtained
from the R-B and B-G images of the same
location respectively. The green velocity
profile is the downstream, exit velocity
profile. It is found that the velocity profiles
measured at different locations from different
color images are consistent with one another.
The velocity measured is 29 cm/s and the
corresponding Reynolds number is 252.
A wider channel is then used to perform
the measurements of flow past circular
cylinder in a confined channel. Circular
cylinder with diameter 1 cm is inserted into
the 4 cm wide soap film channel to generate
the flow field. Figure 5 is the color image
of such flow. The Reynolds number of the
flow, based on the diameter of the cylinder, is
626.
Fig. 4 Velocity profiles at different
locations
Fig. 5 Flow past circular cylinder in a
confined soap film channel.
The colors produced on the soap film by
the interference of light are due to the small
thickness variation generated by the
disturbing of the cylinder. Visualization of
these thickness variation render graphic
information about the flow patterns thus
produced. The full-velocity vectors and
streamlines distribution calculated from
particle image is shown in figure 6.
It is interesting to point out that the
color pattern shown in figure 7 looks similar
to the streamline pattern, although they do
not correspond to each other. The vortex
shedding in the confined channel is
suppressed in the vertical direction and
elongated in the flow direction. Both
qualitative and quantitative characteristics of
the vortex shedding in a confined channel are
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
