Large Scale Protein 2D Gel Electrophoresis
Images Fractional Matching Using Maximum
Relation Spanning Tree Algorithm ?
Daw-Tung Lin ∗
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering
National Taipei University, Taipei, Taiwan
and
Juin-Lin Kuo
Biomedical Engineering Center, ITRI
Hsinchu, Taiwan
Abstract
While matching of 2D electropherograms normally poses a bottleneck in the au-
tomation of protein analysis, image distortion and experimental variation lower the
accuracy of matching. However, conventional matching methods only compare two
complete images, whereas landmarks selection and registration procedure are rather
time consuming. Therefore, this work presents a novel and robust fuzzy similarity
measure algorithm in which an autonomous matching method requires neither man-
ual selection of landmarks a priori or manual registration. 2D gel images are rep-
resented graphically. The features of an image are then quantitatively determined
despite image size, distortion, rotation and variation in brightness. Next, the similar-
ity between a fractional image and a large scale image is determined, thus increasing
accuracy in fractional matching. The proposed fuzzy similarity measure algorithm
can achieve an accuracy of up to 95% in matching for 225 2D gel test images. While
extending 2D gel matching to fractional query images of a large scale and a database
containing large sets of images, the proposed approach can be adopted not only in
mapping and location, but also in comparing small gel images with large format gel
image. In addition to handling image rotation, shifting and reversals, the proposed
algorithm can effectively address the fractional mapping problem.
Key words: Two-dimensional protein gel electrophoresis, Large scale image
automatic matching, Features extraction, Gabriel graph, Relative neighborhood
graph, Maximum relation spanning tree, fuzzy measurements aggregation
Preprint submitted to Elsevier Science
Spot matching is a challenging problem in 2D gel comparison. We must find
the different spots between standard gel and relative gel. Comparison by obser-
vation is a very labor intensive task as illustration in Fig. 1. A few algorithms
have been proposed to solve this problem, for example Restriction Landmark
Genomic Scanning (RLGS) [3,8,9] and Fuzzy Cluster [10]. RLGS compares
the protein using construction of computer graphs and landmark. It has the
drawback that users need to allocate the landmark manually. The Fuzzy Clus-
ter algorithm uses the relation between two protein spots and calculates the
similarity. The Fuzzy Cluster method can also calculate the similarity fast,
but if there are hundreds or thousands of protein spots in two gel images, this
method will fail without using a large amount of features.
We have also investigated and implemented several methods to construct a
framework of 2DGE image analysis system [11]. For spot detection, we choose
the Watershed Algorithm to segment the protein spots for the sake of low
intensity and process speed, and to adapt to local area intensity. We provide
a novel Maximum Relation Spanning Tree (MRST) to overcome the problems
of RLGS and Fuzzy Cluster method. The algorithm not only can handle the
rotation, shift and reverse condition, but can also handle fractional mapping
problem. In the matching process, we apply fuzzy inference to correct the
variation, which is generated from rotation, shift and reverse condition. In
addition, this method does not need landmark allocated in a priori by users.
2 Features Extraction with Gabriel Graph and Relative Neighbor-
hood Graph
In the early stages of the biological experiment with long range pH gradi-
ent, the protein spots were found usually too close or overlapping with each
other. This is a major problem for protein purging. Therefore, the biologists
would prefer processing with narrow range of pH gradient in the same gel
areas separately and then compose several gel sub-images to analyze protein
as a whole. We can use the combined gel image to identify more useful protein
spots instead of using the overlapped and blurred protein spot in a wide range
of Immobilized pH Gradient (IPG) gel images. Therefore, it is necessary to
provide a robust solution to the problem of querying and matching large scale
and large sets of two dimensional protein gel electrophoresis (2DGE) chro-
matography images. In this paper, we proposed a novel method, Maximum
Relative Spanning Tree (MRST), for matching the fractional query image with
gel images in the database. Thus, we can use this method to find the gel image
which contains or is similar to the small and fractional query image, and to
locate the area residing in the large scale images.
Generally speaking, there is neither a fixed model nor a fixed size of protein
3
Fig. 2. Example of Gabriel graph.
D2(u, v) < D2(u,w) +D2(v, w)
, for all w ∈ V, w 6= u, v. (1)
where D(u, v) denotes the distance of uv. Thus, GG connects two points u
and v when there are no other points lying within the circle containing uv as
its diameter [19].
Given a set P of points in R2 , the relative neighborhood graph of P , denoted
by RNG(P ), has a segment between points u and v in P if the intersection
of the open disks of radius D(u, v) centered at u and v is empty. This region
of influence is referred to as the lune of u and v. Equivalently, u, v ∈ V are
adjacent if and only if
D(u, v) ≤ max[D(u,w), D(v, w)]
, for all w ∈ V,w 6= u, v. (2)
In an RNG points, u and v are connected if no other point lies in the inter-
section of two circles with radii uw and vw. Thus, RNG is a subgraph of a
GG. The RNG graph relatively invariant under isometric transformations [3].
Examples of the Gabriel graph and relative neighborhood graph constructed
from one gel image are shown in Fig 2 and Fig 3, respectively.
2.1 Feature Extraction
Geometrical spot matching relies on the similarity of the features extracted
from the structured graphs. After we have constructed the proximity graphs,
we continue to extract the features of the spots on protein gel images. For each
node and edge of both Gabriel Graph and Relative Neighborhood Graph, three
5
Fig. 5. Illustration of MRST matching pairs.
3 The Fractional Spot Matching with Maximum Relation Span-
ning Tree
The fractional spot matching problem is defined as follows. Given a set of
points S chosen from a fractional area (small window) of the sample gel image,
we want to search for all occurrences of points sets T which are the best match
with S in the reference images using appropriate similarity measure. In order to
compare the similarity between two gel images, we have developed a maximum
relation spanning tree (MRST) algorithm as a comparative framework for
this task, in which the minimum distance derived from the Minimum-Cost
Spanning Tree [23] is replaced by the proposed maximum fuzzy relation. We
calculate the relationship between protein points using the features of the
structured graphs and find the maximum relationship of fuzzy inference for
protein spots pair for further image matching. The algorithm terminates if
there is no referable pair in the spot pair sets. The illustration of the MRST
algorithm is shown in Fig 4 and Fig. 5 and is discussed as follows.
In MRST algorithm, we utilize the connectivity of Gabriel graph to define
whether a spot can join and to be compared as shown in Fig. 4. Figure 4(a)
and (b) denote two sets of protein spots, (c) and (d) denote the initial cor-
responding anchor points pair (plotted in red dots) determined automatically
by the proposed global matching processing, (e) and (f) illustrate the satellite
spots connected to the corresponding anchor points (plotted in blue dots) us-
ing the Gabriel graph connection conditions. We call the red spot and the blue
spots as anchor spot and satellite spots, respectively. Starting from any anchor
spot in the sample gel image and reference gel image, we travel through all
the satellite spots in the sample gel image and compute the fuzzy relationship
of the satellite spots in the reference gel image. As illustrated in Fig. 5 plot-
ted in dotted connected edges, we will find the maximum relation for every
7
angle of each point in these graphs. Several algorithms have been developed
to solve the gel matching problem by preassigning one or a few corresponding
landmarks, it is also called global matching step. Instead of assigning the land-
marks manually, in this step we find the initial anchor point pair automatically
by comparing all possible corresponding anchor pairs between the sample gel
image and reference gel image and compute the fuzzy relation between them.
Substituting the feature of degree from the profiles of Gabriel Graph and Rel-
ative Neighborhood Graph into the similarity measure of fuzzy membership
function (Equation 3), we can obtain two fuzzy relationship values RGG and
RRNG, respectively. If the product RGG × RRNG is greater or equal to 0.7,
then we treat it as a candidate anchor point pairs with larger fuzzy similarity
relationship, sort them by values, and then record into the temporary stack.
The candidate pair with the maximum fuzzy relation will be selected with
higher priority in the local matching process.
3.2 Local matching
Once the anchor point is located, we start to apply the maximum relation
spanning tree algorithm on the Gabriel graph. The fuzzy inference rule (Equa-
tion 3) of three features (degree, distance, and angle) of the Gabriel graph is
computed. If the fuzzy membership is greater than 0.6, the graph is extended.
The algorithm is elucidated as follows.
MRST() {
If node tree T = ∅
Insert a new anchor point pair with the maximum relation;
MRST();
else if anchor point pairs are not empty
Find next anchor point pair in the satellite spots;
MRST();
else if temporary stack is empty
terminate;
}
Compare the area of the sample image and matched area in the reference image;
If the difference is less than 10%
then it is matched
else match fail
3.3 Fuzzy Similarity Measure
The conventional direct superimpose matching is not appropriate in this prob-
lem due to imperfect 2D electrophoresis technique. The geometric distortions
9
Fig. 8. Relation of pattern mapping between two similar fractional gel images.
spot pairs produced by Gabriel matching is completed. Through this process,
we will find all similar spot pairs between two gel images. We will also label the
matched spots corresponding to their relative spots and their matching area.
As shown in Fig. 7, the left window displays the source image to be matched,
the square on the right-hand side indicates the matched area in a large scale
gel image. If no complete fractional match was available, this algorithm could
present the possible match point pairs with corresponding matching labels as
shown in Fig. 8. As we can observe in Fig 8, each spot in the rectangular area
has two labels indicating the mapping relation between the standard (target)
pattern and the corresponding spot label of the test pattern. The left label
indicates the spot number in the target gel image. The right label followed by
arrow sign denotes the matched spot label in the source (test) image.
4 Simulation Results
We have implemented the proposed 2D gel images analysis system, and demon-
strated the results of gel matching (global matching and fractional matching)
in this section. We have obtained 15 2D protein gel profiles (image size: 1498
x 1544) of porcine testis from the Bioinformatics Center for Swine Research
in Tropical Area at the Animal Technology Institute Taiwan (ATIT). The
experiment data set is constructed from these 15 gel images. The data set
contains totally 225 gel images as follows: 15 original gel images (1498×1544),
135 fractional gel images composed of nine different sizes of fractional im-
ages (1000×1000, 900×900, 800×800,700×700, 600×600, 500×500, 400×400,
300×300 and 200×200) chopped randomly from each of 15 original gel images,
and 75 rotated images: 45 gel images obtained from the original gel images
by rotating in 90◦, 180◦, and 270◦ degrees, respectively, and 30 gel images
obtained from the original gel images by flipping horizontally and vertically,
11
Table 2
The result of registration for different rotation situations.
Amount of Correct/False Image Correct/False Ratio(%)
Gel Image Correct Number False Number Correct Ratio False Ratio
Rotated 90◦ 15 0 100 0
Rotated 180◦ 15 0 100 0
Rotated 270◦ 15 0 100 0
Horizontal Reversal 15 0 100 0
Vertical Reversal 15 0 100 0
Total 75 0 100 0
Fig. 9. Result of fractional matching and allocation processing.
the rotated fractional gel images and to perform searching in the original
large-scale gel images (15 images) and see if the proposed method can find the
correct match. One of the results is demonstrated in Fig. 9 where one fractional
sample gel image of size of 200×200 is rotated or flipped into five images
with different conditions (rotated in 90◦, 180◦, 270◦, flipped horizontally ,and
vertically) and these fractional images are shown on the left hand side in Fig. 9.
With these six small images, we tried to search in the original large 2D gel
image database and see if the proposed system can find the exact match. The
location of correct matching is identified in the rectangle on the right-hand
side in Fig. 9.
5 Conclusion
In this paper, we focused on the issues of fractional matching and relocation
for the small fraction pattern in the large-scale 2D gel images. We have devel-
oped a fast, accurate and content-based image matching method Maximum
Relation Spanning Tree (MRST). By using this algorithm, we can easily al-
13
