 2 
有線及無線網路架構不明時之最佳化嚴謹式合議問題之研究 
 
計畫主持人：嚴國慶 
共同主持人：王淑卿 
計畫參與人員：黃學馴、王秋雲、鄒慶城、陳聖中 
 
 
Abstract 
The Byzantine Agreement problem is one of the most fundamental problems in the field of 
distributed environment. It requires a set of the processors to agree on a common value even if 
some processors are corrupted. There are many significant studies about these problems in a 
well-defined network environment. These network like the FCN (Fully Connected Network), GCN 
(Generalized Connected Network), and SGCN (Super Generalized Connected Network) discussed 
about vary faults of processors and transmission media. Thus, we can understand the faulty tolerant 
capability of these network environments. But it is computationally infeasible for ignoring the 
network structure in a real environment. In general, the processors will turnover the network 
arbitrary in any time. Thus, the network will become an instable state that influences the system to 
reach a common value. Subsequently, the fault tolerant capability will unable to be computed due 
to each processor doesn’t know any connectivity of other processors. Thus, this paper will discuss 
about this serious problem that vary network environment. This kind of the network, we call it as 
an Unknown Network (UNet) structure. And this paper proposes the solution for Byzantine 
Agreement in a UNet environment. These assumptions will generate some different results with 
prior literatures. Similarly, our proposed protocol can solve the Byzantine Agreement using 
minimum rounds of message exchange, and tolerates the maximum number of transmission media 
failure.  
Keywords: Byzantine Agreement, Consensus, Unknown Network, Fault Tolerant, and Distributed 
Network.  
1. Introduction 
 
The Byzantine Agreement (BA) problem is one of fundamental problems in a distributed 
fault tolerant environment. This problem first studied by Lamport in 1982 [7] was solved to make 
system run and agree on a common value even if certain processors in the distributed system were 
 4 
2. Previous Results 
According to the prior literatures, the allowable faulty transmission media (TMs) are (n/2-1) 
in a (n-1)-connected environment [5,6,12,13]. These protocols need two rounds of message 
exchange and make the healthy processors to reach a common value in the last round [11,12]. 
Similarly, the influence of a faulty TM produced in the (k-1)th round can be removed by k-th round 
of message exchange [9,10,11]. Based on the results of Wang [9], we can know that only two 
rounds required in the message exchange phase for each healthy processor to reach an agreement if 
the number of faulty TMs are less than (n/2-1). The messages were influenced by a faulty TM in 
the first round, but this fault would be cleared in the next round (second round), so we can clearly 
know the exactly messages and agree on a common value. In this assumption, prior literatures 
mention c-connectivity protocol [3,4], it allows c-connectivity network can tolerant (c+1)/2-1 
[3,4] fault TMs in general case. But this assumption will decrease the fault tolerant capability. 
Only the faulty numbers spread equally. Subsequently, next section we will discuss uses our 
proposed protocol can improve the tolerant numbers from (c+1)/2-1 to   



−∑ +
=
2)12/)1((
1
n
i
ic . 
 
3. The UNet Protocol (UNP) 
Meanwhile, prior protocols do not consider about the fault results from the vary processors or 
TMs [9,10,11,12]. These problems will decrease accuracy of messages and fault tolerant capability. 
Thus, this paper will confer on each processor step by step to fit the real network environment and 
find the fault tolerant capability. 
Due to prior literatures [3,4], we can gain the protocol which can tolerate any transmission 
media faults in a system provided n > 3m + d and c > 2m + d [3,4], where n is the total number of 
processors in the network, c is the system connectivity, m is the number of malicious faults, and d 
is the number of dormant faults. However, we find the protocol we proposed that it is more flexible 
to fit an unknown network (UNet) environment. The network will extend or reduce continuously if 
any processor gets in or out offline in any time. Thus, each processor maybe understands the 
connection state of the neighbor only via the message exchange. Unfortunately, the network 
changes soon again and each processor doesn’t distinguish from all of the network structures 
basically. On other hand, each processor only knows itself connection condition at most. Thus, we 
will take this point to generate our protocol that each processor can know itself connectivity only in 
 6 
m: the total number of malicious faults 
d : the total number of dormant faults 
m = ∑
=
n
i 1
i
 2
m
 … (for 1≦ i ≦ n)  ……………………(1) 
d =  ∑
=
n
i
id
1
2  … (for 1≦ i ≦ n)  ………….……….…(2) 
According to above equations, the protocol ci > 2mi + di will be acquired and analyzed of the 
fault transmission media. The relationships between malicious and dormant faults are analyzed in 
Table 1. 
 
Protocol UNP (For each processor i with initial value vi) 
 
Definition: n   : the number of processors 
TMij: the transmission media is connecting with the processor i and processor j. 
v   : the initial message 
Vi   : vector 
ci    : the connectivity of processor i 
Message Exchange Phase: 
Round 1:     Multicast the initial value through (ci) TMs. Receive other processors’ (v) values via (ci) 
TMs. Then, construct vector Vi. 
Round 2:     Multicast the vector (Vi). 
Receive the vectors sent by other processors. Then, construct MATi. 
Decision Making Phase: 
Step 1: Taking the majority value of each row k of MATi to be MAJk. 
Step 2: If (∃MAJi = ¬ vi), then DEC i = φ; 
Step 3: Else if (∃MAJk = ?) AND (vki = vi), then DECi = φ, else DECi = vi and halt. 
 
Figure 1. The proposed protocol UNP to solve consensus problem 
 8 
Giving an example for executing our protocol and show the structure as Figure 2. Firstly, we 
don’t know any other connectivity state except itself neighbor, like processor 1, it just knows the 
processor 2, 4, and 5 due to connect each other. Meanwhile, we have ∑
=
5
1
2
i
ic =8 TMs in this case. 
In general, each processor just knows his connection of neighbors. Thus, each processor uses 
the (ci+1)/2-1 to compute his connection fault tolerant capability. Subsequently, we will explain 
the worst case and best as follow. 
 
Worst Case: 
If the faulty numbers are focus on the particular processor that has minimum connectivity, 
likes processor 1 and 3. The computing as follow: 
ft : the total numbers of allowable faulty TMs in a UNet 
The number of allowable faulty TMs in processor 1: 
(c1+1)/2-1 = (1+1)/2-1 = 1 , ci > 2mi + di 
or 
The number of allowable faulty TMs in processor 2: 
(c2+1)/2-1 = (1+1)/2-1 = 1 , ci > 2mi + di 
Thus, the worst case is ft = (cδ +1)/2-1 = 1, where cδ is the smallest connectivity of the 
system. 
Best Case: 
According to worst case, we can understand the connectivity is a most important factor in 
faulty tolerant capability. Thus, the faulty numbers of best case will disperse to each processor. Our 
example is showing in Figure 3(a), the faulty numbers appear in processor 4. The computing as 
follow: 
  



−∑ +
=
2)12/)1((
1
n
i
ic  = (1+1+1+1+1)/2 = 2  
The result shows the fault tolerant capability is 2 more than the prior worst case. It is distinct 
from worst case and best case. Thus, we can gain the conclusion that all of the case in a UNet 
environment will be bounded in equation 3. 
 10 
 
 
 
 
4.Correctness and Complexity 
The following lemmas and theorems are used to prove the correctness and complexity of 
protocol UNP. 
Lemma 1: If there is a MATj = ¬vi in MATi, then at least there is one processor with an initial 
value which disagrees with vi in the environment.  
Proof: The majority value in the k-th row =¬vi means that there are at least (n+1)/2 vi’s in 
the k-th row (n is the number of processors). Since the number of faulty TMs is at most 
(n/2)-1, there exists at least one value ¬vi received from a healthy transmission 
medium. In other words, there is a processor that has a disagreeable initial value.  
1 2 3 4 5
0
0
0
?
1
1 2 3 4 5
0
0
0
1
?
1 3 4
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
   0           0           0         0      λ           
   1         1          λ       0       λ           
2 5
  λ         1          λ       0       0           
  λ         0           0         0      λ           
  λ         1            1         1      0           
  λ        λ          λ       0       1           
  λ         0           0         0       0           
   0          0         λ      0       0           
  λ          1         λ        0       0           
   1         λ          λ       0      λ           
   1          0         λ       1      0           
   0         0           0      0      λ           
  λ         0           0       0       λ           
   0         1          1       1       λ           
   0        λ          λ       0       λ           
 Messages received by Processor 1
 Messages received by Processor  2
 Messages received by Processor  3
 
1 2 3 4 5
?
0
0
1
0
1 3 4
0
0
0
1
?
0
0
   1          0          0       0       λ           
   0        λ        λ       1       0           
2 5
   0          1         λ      0       1           
  λ         0         0        0       1           
   1         λ          λ       0       0           
   1         1           1       1       1           
   1         λ           0        0      λ           
  λ        λ           0       1       0           
   1         λ         1       0       0           
   1        λ          λ       1        1           
 Messages received by Processor  4
 Messages received by Processor  5
 
Figure 3 (c). 
Construct the matrix MATi 
Figure 3 (d) 
Take the majority value 
Figure 3(c). 
Construct the matrix MATi 
Figure 3(d) 
Take the majority value 
Figure 3. An example of reaching a common agreement in a 
 12 
The initial value of processor k should disagree with the initial value of processor i; 
hence it is healthy to choose DECi = φ 
If vki = ¬vi, we claim that ¬vi ought to be passed by a faulty TM from processor k, and 
the initial value of processor be ¬vki = vi. 
To prove, if TMki is healthy, then the initial value of processor k should be ¬ vi. By 
Lemma 2, the majority value of the k-th row in MATi is ¬vi. This is contradiction with 
the condition of (¬∃MAJk = ¬ vi). 
If the initial value of processor k was ¬vi, then, by Lemma 3, MAJk should be either ¬vi 
or cannot be determined for vki = vi. It is a contradiction.   
Theorem 1: UNP is valid. 
Proof:  According to Lemma 1, 2, 3,and 4, the validity of UNP is confirmed.  
Theorem 2: Protocol UNP can reach a consensus. 
Proof: 
(1) Agreement: 
Part 1: If a healthy processor agrees on φ, then all healthy processors should agree on φ. 
If the healthy processor p with initial value vi agrees on φ, by Theorem 1, at least there is 
a healthy processor k with initial value ¬ vi in the environment. By Lemma 4, the 
majority value in the k-th row of MATj, 1≤j≤n, should be either ¬ vi or ? (can not be 
determined) for vkj = vi. All healthy processors with initial value vi agree on. Similarly, 
for the healthy processor p with initial value ¬ vi, the majority value of the p-th row in 
MATj, 1≤j≤n, should be either vi or cannot be determined with ¬vij = vi. All healthy 
processors with initial value ¬vi agree on φ, too. 
Part 2: If a healthy processor agrees on vi, then all healthy processors should agree on vi. 
If the healthy processor i with initial value vi and DECi = vi, but there exists some healthy 
processor j, j ≠ i, which has DECj ≠ vi. Therefore, such a situation is impossible. To 
demonstrate this impossibility, if DECj =φ, by Part 1, then DECi = φ. This contradicts the 
above assumption. 
If DECj = ¬vi, unless the initial value of processor j is ¬vi; otherwise, it is impossible 
according to the definition of a consensus problem. However, if the initial value of 
 14 
Finally, the protocol UNP we proposed will redefine the distributed network environment in 
an unknowable model and achieve the common value if the condition ci > 2mi + di are satisfied. 
Similarly, we prove the equation   



−∑ +
=
2)12/)1((
1
n
i
ic  to increase faulty tolerant capability. Thus, 
according to our computing, the faulty tolerant capability will be improved. This method is better 
than prior literatures. 
 
Reference: 
[1] A. Bar-Noy, and D.Dolev, “Consensus Algorithms with One-bit Messages,” Distributed 
Computing, pp. 205-233. 
[2] M. Barborak, M. Malek, and A. Dahbura, “The Consensus Problem in Fault Tolerant 
Computing,” ACM Computing Surveys, vol. 25, no. 2, pp.171-220, June 1993. 
[3] F.J. Meyer and D.K. Pradhan, “Consensus with Dual Failure Modes,”” IEEE Trans. Parallel 
and Distributed Systems, vol 2, no. 2, pp. 214-222, Apr. 1991. 
[4] Hin Sing Siu, Yeh Hao Chin, and Wei Pang Yang “A Note on Consensus on Dual Failure 
Modes,” IEEE Trans. on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 7, NO. 3, March 1996. 
[5] P. Dasgupta, “Agreement under faulty interfaces,” Information Processing Letters, vol. 65, 
1998, pp. 125-129. 
[6] D. Dolev, and R. Reischuk, “Bounds on Information Exchange for Byzantine Agreement, 
“ Journal of ACM, vol. 32, no. 1, 1985, pp. 191-204. 
[7] L. Lamport, R. Shostak, and M. Pease, “The Byzantine Generals Problem,” ACM 
Transactions on Programming Languages and System, vol. 4, no. 3, 1982, pp.384-401. 
[8] K. Shima, H. Higaki, and M. Takizawa, “Fault-Tolerant Causal Delivery In Group 
Communication,” in the Proceedings of International Conference of Parallel and Distributed 
Systems, 1996, pp. 302 –309. 
[9] S. C. Wang, Y. H. Chin, and K. Q. Yan, “Byzantine Agreement in a Generalized Connected 
Environment Model,” in IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed System, 6(4), 1995, 
pp. 420-427. 
[10] S.C. Wang, K. Q. Yan., S.H. Kao and L. Y. Tseng, “Consensus with Dual Link Failure 
Modes on Generalized Network,” in CY journal, ISSN 1026-244X, Aug. 2000, pp. 35-52. 
[11] K. Q. Yan, Y.H. Chin and S. C. Wang, “Optimal Agreement Algorithm in Malicious Faulty 
Processors and Faulty Links,” IEEE Trans. on Data and Knowledge Engineering, pp.266-280, 
1992. 
1 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC99-2221-E-324-022 
計畫名稱 有線及無線網路架構不明時之最佳化嚴謹式合議問題之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
朝陽科技大學企業管理系教授 嚴國慶 
會議時間地點 100年 4月 18日~4月 20日，大陸青島 
會議名稱 2011 3rd International Conference on Communications and Mobile Computing (CMC 2011) 
發表論文題目 Application of Data Mining for Enterprise Digital Marketing Strategy Making 
 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次研討會的會期共計三天，在大陸青島山東科技大學舉行。CMC2011為一個國際性的
研討會，提供從事通訊及行動計算的研究人員和工程師，討論與分享通訊及行動計算新技術
的最新進展。CMC2011年會議論文集由 Conference Publishing Services (CPS)負責整理，並收
錄於 IEEE Xplore，且提供 EI和 ISTP檢索到的索引。 
而為了促進學術界與產業界在資訊相關領域的研究與發展能力，並培養在本領域之研發人
才，此次研討會的主題共包括 5個主題，分列如下： 
1. Wireless Communications Symposium 
1)  Antennas, Channel Measurement/Modeling/Simulation, and RF Sub-systems  
2)  Cognitive Radio and Software Defined Radio  
3)  Cooperative Communications  
4)  Green Communications 
5)  Interference modeling and coordination (IMC)  
6)  Cross-Layer Design and Optimization  
7)  Vehicular communications 
8)  Modulation, Coding and Information Theory  
9)  Multiple Access Techniques (CDMA, TDMA, FDMA, OFDMA, …) 
10)  Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) Systems  
11)  OFDM and Multi-Carrier Systems 
12)  Satellite Communications  
13)  Ultra-Wideband Communications 
3 
2)  Grid, cloud and P2P computing  
3)  IP advances, applications and services  
4)  Multicast and anycast  
5)  Multimedia protocols  
6)  Performance Modeling and Analysis 
7)  Pervasive/ubiquitous computing and intelligence  
8)  Protocols (Routing, Transport layer, …)  
9)  Quality of Service (QoS) 
10)  Scheduling and Switching 
11)  Traffic Engineering 
12)  Web services and Internet computing  
13)  Other topics 
  
5. Computer and Network Security Symposium 
1)  Biometric security: technologies, risks, vulnerabilities, bio-cryptography, mobile 
template protection  
2)  Cryptography: Conventional public-key crypto, symmetric-key crypto, advanced 
crypto, and quantum crypto  
3)  Information systems security  
4)  Intrusion detection, localization, and countermeasures  
5)  Mobile and Wireless networks security 
6)  Operating systems security and log analysis tools  
7)  Optical network security  
8)  Security modeling and protocol design  
9)  Vulnerability, exploitation tools and virus analysis  
10)  Web, eBusiness, eCommerce, eGovernment security  
11)  Other topics 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次出席會議的專家學者來自多個國家，包括：美國、香港、中國大陸、日本、韓國、
法國、英國、澳洲及台灣。台灣地區則包括清華大學、東華大學及本校朝陽科技大學、…
5 
 
會場照片
 
 
 
 
7 
9 
 
會議論文集：
 
 
 
 
 
11 
發表之論文：
 
Application of Data Mining for Enterprise Digital Marketing Strategy Making 
 
Kuo-Qin, Yan Shu-Ching, Wang* Shun-Sheng, Wang*  Yi-Ping, Lin 
kqyan@cyut.edu.tw scwang@cyut.edu.tw sswang@cyut.edu.tw s9814612@cyut.edu.tw 
Chaoyang University of Technology 
Taiwan, R.O.C. 
*Corresponding author 
 
Abstract—With the popularity of broadband Internet and the booming development of network 
technology in recent years, the traditional marketing is also gradually moving to digital marketing. The 
dissemination of information through the internet is different from traditional marketing. In today’s 
competitive market, there are various products made by enterprises, how to stand out in a highly 
competitive environment, and how to go with marketing tactics and product through the product 
advertising to cause high degree of customer purchase intentions and interests effectively, is one of the 
important keys. Furthermore, due to the international business environment and intense competition, it is 
necessary to response and satisfies market and customer demand immediately, and use information 
technology to assist enterprises in doing business marketing. Therefore, in order to grasp market 
characteristics and consumer preferences to select the appropriate products marketing strategies. In this 
study, the structure of digital marketing is proposed aims to provide the enterprise relevant marketing 
information, to identify appropriate marketing practices of market segment, and thus to achieve the 
majority of the responses or purchase intention in marketing effectiveness. 
Keywords-Digital marketing; Internet marketing; Data mining 
1. Introduction 
As technology advances with time and the information constantly being discovered, update the digital 
marketing become more and more popular. There are many marketing strategies can be selected that 
including public praise marketing, database marketing, placement marketing, and other diverse 
marketing [10]. 
Marketing is not just sales and advertising, but to provide the necessary direction of business 
operators and determine the goods and services are correct. At the same time, it needs to find the 
distribution channels access to consumers. Therefore, from the enterprise’ point of view how to meet the 
market demand has been an important issue in marketing research. In order to meet market demand and 
to develop the industry different from other marketing strategies, the “market segmentation” can be 
started to explore the opportunity of target market. The method of market segmentation generally start 
from the “consumer preference”, “distribution channel”, “geographical analysis”, and so on. However, 
the research of marketing only focused on some fixed point in the past and those were lack a set of 
process analysis [1]. In addition, the corporate decision-making analyses are mostly collected from the 
past data. Using information system to get the factors and do the market research by those factors. 
Common methods are (1) to identify the problem, (2) to analyze the scenario, (3) to obtain information 
about the problem, (4) to explain the data, and (5) to solve the problem. 
However, the dynamic needs of the market will obstruct this research, or affect the appropriateness of 
the research results. Therefore, our study attempts to connect information technology with enterprise 
management integration, and looking for the key factors of digital marketing mix for enterprise. 
Consequently, a complete framework of the digital marketing is proposed and the data mining 
techniques are used to do market segmentation. Then, enterprises can identify the suitable marketing 
strategies by the characteristics of each group, and draw consumers’ attention and purchase intention. 
13 
3. Research Methods 
Three major components in the structure of the digital marketing are proposed in this study. There are 
analysis, selection mix and present, as shown in Figure 1. 
At first, during the selection process of the marketing, the products information and previous 
marketing experience or data are used to analysis and then to find the useful, unobvious or ineffective 
methods of marketing. Moreover, the results will be selected, mixed and saved into the marketing 
database. 
 
Figure 1.  Digital marketing framework. 
Secondly, due to the analyzed results, the marketing platform is selected, and then the suitable 
marketing practices can be chosen. The progression procedure is called “two-stage digital marketing 
method” that can enhance the business advantage. The first stage is “the selection of marketing 
platform” and the second stage is “the selection of marketing tactics”. In the process of “the selection 
marketing platform”, the customer's age, the usage of the group, the education level, family income, etc., 
are used to select a suitable marketing platform. Based on the selected marketing platform, the different 
digital marketing practices for the actual marketing propaganda are used. Through two-stage digital 
marketing method that can make the company significantly to reduce the cost of marketing, and make 
the marketing goals and objectives more clearly to enhance the advantages of business, shown as Figure 
2. 
Finally, the information of marketing activities is presented. In addition, base on the market response, 
consumer behavior, click-through rate and other feedback mechanisms, the related information of 
marketing activities is transferred to the required information that need to store in the marketing 
database. 
4. Example of Discussion 
In recent years, there are many researches about personal services. The ultimate goal is try to achieve 
marketing and services one by one. However, with a large of customers if they can be clustered, i.e. 
market segmentation not only can reduce the business costs of personal services, but also enhance the 
quality of personalized services and customer satisfaction. Relatively, customer loyalty will be straight 
up. 
With the ever changing of customer psychology, how to understand consumer preference factors is an 
urgent task. After understanding the needs of customers, base on customers’ needs, the enterprise can 
adjust demand strategy. Then, the enterprise can increase customers’ satisfaction and obtain win-win 
situation. 
As a result of diversity, the current marketing practices, the face of low loyalty consumers, and under 
of industry rapidly changing factors, in order to immediate response and to satisfy market and customer 
needs; hence, a structure of digital marketing is proposed in this study. The proposed architecture can 
help enterprise to obtain the relevant marketing information and to find the suitable marketing practices 
then enterprise can achieve widespread appeal. Furthermore, the understanding of the association 
15 
In addition, this study suggests that marketing practices in the presentation based on our proposed 
framework through the loop approaches to marketing, as shown in Figure 3. In the first choice, if the 
marketing tactics of A company selected is “word of mouth marketing”, then the marketing tactics will 
be presented. Through the presented stages of “word of mouth marketing”, the effective of marketing 
can be evaluated. 
TABLE II.  CREDIT CARD SALES DATA CLUSTERING 
 
 
Results as expected or the marketing are not interested in this market, i.e. fails, then the analysis 
phase of the adjustment is executed. On the contrary, the basis of enterprise resources, choose whether to 
continue marketing the product. Therefore, this marketing process can increase the accuracy of 
marketing. 
5. Conclusion 
In today’s digital environment, marketing tactics became variety besides, under the factor of facing 
low consumer loyalty and industry rapid change. In order to response and satisfy market and customer 
demand immediately, and master market characteristics and consumers’ preferences, a architecture of 
digital marketing is proposed to analyze product information and attempt to combine information 
technology with enterprise management. To find the key factor of digital marketing mix for enterprises, 
so as to promote marketing information can provide more customized marketing interaction by using the 
interactive media. 
At first, according to the products information, previous marketing experience or data, the study 
analyzes the marketing strategy during the selection process of the marketing; then finds the useful, 
unobvious or ineffective methods of marketing. Moreover, the results will be selected, mixed and saved 
into the marketing database then the information of marketing activities are presented. Finally, the 
research bases on market response, consumer behavior, click-through rate and other feedback 
mechanisms to transform that information into required information then send to the database for storage 
thought data pre-processing. The study provides not only an advantageous way to find marketing 
strategies but also an effective way to transform the feedback mechanisms. It makes marketing more 
instantaneous and effective. In the future, the proposed framework of the digital marketing to do more 
depth study and do the related research from a variety of digital marketing point of view will be 
attention. 
 
17 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part by the Taiwan National Science Council under Grants 
NSC99-2221-E324-022. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] P. Andrew, Z. Michael, and W. Robert (1998), “Organizing today for the digital marketing of 
tomorrow,” Journal of Interactive Marketing, Vol. 12, No 1, pp. 31-46, 1998. 
[2] M.J.A. Berry and G.S. Linoff, Data mining techniques for marketing, sales and customer support, 
2nd Ed., New York: John Wiley, 2004. 
[3] D. Cansell, G. Gopalakrishnan, M. Jones, D. Méry and A.Weinzoepflen, “Incremental proof of the 
producer/consumer property for the PCI protocol,” Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 
2272/2002, pp. 22-41, 2002. 
[4] Y.M. Chae, S.H. Ho, K.W. Cho, D.H. Lee and S.H. Ji, “Data mining approach to policy analysis in a 
health insurance domain,” International Journal of Medical Informatics, Vol. 62, No.2-3, 
pp.103-111,July 2001. 
[5] U.M. Fayyad, P.S. Gregory, S. Padhraic and U. Ramasamy, Advances in knowledge discovery and 
data mining, AAAI Press/The MIT Press, Menlo Park, CA, 1996. 
[6] U. Fayyad and P. Stolorz, “Data mining and KDD: promise and challenges,” Future Generation 
Computer Systems, Vol. 13, pp. 99-115, 1997. 
[7] R. Mohammed, R.J. Fishe, B.J.J. Jaworski, and G. Paddison, Internet marketing: building advantage 
in a networked economy, The ACM Digital Library, 2003. 
[8] H. Jiawei and M. Kaufmann, Data mining : concepts and technique, Elsevier/Morgan Kaufmann 
Publishers, c2006. 
[9] C. Wei and I., Chiu, “Turning telecommunications call details to churn prediction: a data mining 
approach,” Expert Systems with Applications, Vol. 23, No. 2, pp. 103-112, 2002. J. Wind, Y. Wind, 
and V. Mahajan, Digital marketing: global strategies from the world's leading expert, , New York: 
John Wiley, 2001. 
[10] J. Wind, Y. Wind, and V. Mahajan, Digital marketing: global strategies from the world's leading 
expert, , New York: John Wiley, 2001. 
19 
 Management Information System 
 Managerial Consultation 
 Marketing 
 Operations Management 
 Organizational Development and Change 
 Non-Profit Sector Management 
 Research Methods 
 Social Issues in Management 
 Technology and Innovation 
 Web Technology and Management 
 Other Relevant Topics 
 
二、 與會心得 
此次出席會議的專家學者來自多個國家，包括：美國、香港、中國大陸、日本、韓國、
法國、英國、澳洲及台灣。台灣地區則包括清華大學、台北大學及本校朝陽科技大學、…等。
本校能以私立學校的研究成果，與這麼多國立優秀的學者在國外共同分享研究成果，真是倍
感榮幸。會議中，除了學術界的先進前輩之外，亦有許多的參與者是來自工業界及其所屬研
究機構，對於實務方面的見解與經驗，頗值得學術界做教學與研究時的參考。
 
筆 者 所 提 論 文 ， 題 目 為 『 SECURITY ENHANCEMENT BY CIPHER-BASED 
AUTHENTICATION AND KEY AGREEMENT IN A CLOUD COMPUTING 
ENVIRONMENT』，安排在第三天上午第二場的議程中發表，此篇文章在進行論文匿名審查
時，獲得 Reviewers極高的肯定，並榮獲最佳論文的殊榮，足見國內學者的研究已有國際性的
水準。
 
在現今資訊快速發展的時代裡，雲端運算(Cloud Computing)以分散式系統的概念改變了
傳統網際網路的應用模式。而由於進入雲端運算環境的門檻極低，提供雲端服務的成本也低
廉，使得許多企業紛紛投入雲端運算的環境，迅速提升在雲端環境中的服務種類，也使得大
量的使用者透過網際網路使用各種雲端服務。然而，由於雲端運算環境上存在大量的應用服
務以及資料中心，所以在應用服務與資料中心的資訊通訊以及認證是一個必須考慮的安全議
題。因此，本研究提出基於加密的認證與金鑰協議(Cipher-based Authentication and Key 
21 
在目前常用於網際網路資訊通訊安全的認證流程以及加解密系統，雖然安全性很高，但
是所需要的運算資源之要求相對的也較高。雖然使用較為成熟的認證流程與加解密系統可以
提升使用者在使用雲端運算相關服務的安全性，但卻因為大量的計算而造成使用者在等待伺
服端回應的時間，以致降低雲端服務的服務品質。所以，本研究提出了一個符合雲端運算特
性的輕量計算之資料交換與認證協議，將可以加強應用服務與資料中心的通訊安全。 
由於在一般常見的雲端服務應用中，在應用服務與資料中心的需求並未進行安全的防護
，因此若是為了要提升應用服務與資料中心的安全，而利用了網際網路中較為成熟的安全機
制，將會提升系統的運算負擔並降低雲端服務的服務品質。為此，本研究依據雲端運算的特
性，提出基於加密的認證與金鑰協議(Cipher-based Authentication and Key Agreement；CAKA)
，以提供雲端運算環境中服務與資料中心的資訊通訊以及認證的安全。除此之外，更因利用
混合式動態凱薩加密系統(Hybrid Dynamic Caesar Cipher：HDCC)，來對資料交換時進行輕量
的加解密，利用較少步驟的認證流程與輕便的加解密系統，在不浪費運算資源的前提下，提
升雲端運算環境的安全性。 
因為雲端運算是一個較新的分散式系統之概念，因此若在雲端運算環境中使用傳統網際
網路的安全機制，除了運算成本不能不加以探討外，雲端運算環境所需的彈性安全機制也是
傳統網際網路的安全機制無法解決的議題。所以在未來的研究裡，將針對在雲端運算環境中
彈性的安全機制來進行探討，藉此可以提供使用者或服務供應商在雲端運算環境上使用服務
與資源時可彈性的調整所需的安全等級與安全機制。因此，除了可以保留雲端運算的特性外，
更可提供友善與彈性的安全需求。 
 
 
23 
 
會議論文集：
 
 
 
 
 
 
25 
最佳論文
 
 
27 
with this level of activity. 
Cloud computing use virtualization technology fully utilize idle resources (Luo, 2010; Tzeng, 2010; 
Wang and Ng, 2010), to increase the operation speed and lower energy consumption. Because, there are 
a large number of services and users in the cloud-computing environment, so how to clear and effective 
virtual space separates in the virtual environment, is a major issue of cloud computing. However, when 
users access the Internet environment in the cloud computing service, there will be a large amount of 
data stored in the cloud-computing environment. To provide users with a high reliability, high stability, 
and high security of a trusted environment, hence, the security of any service in the cloud computing 
environment must to be considered (Gruschka and Jensen, 2010; Jensen et al., 2009; Kaufman, 2009). 
Therefore, must take into account the security of information exchange in the cloud-computing 
environment. As cloud computing environments are in exchange of information within the distributed 
system transparently characteristics, although do not know how the information is sent in the exchange, 
but the data may still be intercepted. In addition, it must ensure that the same physical machine in the 
cloud on the application and the user will not interfere with each other. Therefore, users can securely use 
cloud services, when a comprehensive security mechanism is provided by cloud computing environment 
(Wang et al., 2010). 
There are a huge of storage resources and processing resources in the cloud computing, it is easy to 
become targets for malicious attacks. Moreover, the point-to-point topology is adapted by cloud 
computing environment, but the way making the cloud-computing environment has more security 
threats. As more and more diverse cloud services by cloud service provider, thus attracting many users 
use the Internet cloud services, so the security requirements of information and communication is 
increasing (Amazon Web Services, 2010). Therefore, the enhancement of the information and 
communication security in cloud computing environment will be explored in this study. 
To ensure the cloud computing is safety, a mechanism to ensure the security of information and 
communication is thus necessary. Therefore, a Cipher-based Authentication and Key Agreement (CAKA) 
is proposed to provide the security authentication of service to enhance the security of cloud computing 
environment. Overall, our proposed CAKA can provide the security of information and communication 
and authentication, without wasting computing resources to enhance the security of cloud computing 
environment. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The literature review is discussed in Section 2. The 
proposed CAKA is presented in Section 3. An example to illustrate the proposed method is shown in 
Section 4. Finally, Section 5 concludes this paper. 
 
2. LITERATURE REVIEW 
The security requirements of cloud computing, and the existing security data exchange will be discussed 
in this section. 
2.1 The Security Requirements of Cloud Computing 
Cloud computing environment can be divided into three levels, namely the network layer, the host layer, 
and the application layer, the information security requirements in each layer is different, as follows 
(Almulla and Chan, 2010): 
(1) Privacy: To ensure that stored in the cloud-computing environment, the information of users will not 
be a party to the unauthorized access. However, encryption technology can be used to achieve the 
appropriate purpose. 
(2) Integrity: To ensure data integrity, mainly in two ways, one is the use of Message Authentication 
Code (MAC) and other is Digital Signature (DS) (Oppliger, et al., 2008). MAC is the data symmetric 
29 
 
Figure 1. The Security Protocol of Chien and Chen 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. The 
group-based 
authentication and key 
agreement 
The steps of group-based authentication and key agreement are shown in follows: 
(1)  ID Request: The SN attempts to identify MSM1−1. 
(2)  ID Response (AUTHG1): Upon receiving the ID Request message, MSM1−1 generates AUTHG1 = 
(IDG1||IDM1−1||RNM1−1||MACM1−1), where IDG1 denotes the group identity, IDM1−1 is the mobile 
user’s identity, RNM1−1 represents a random number, and MACM1−1 = f 0(KM1−1, RNM1−1) for the HN 
to authenticate MSM1−1. Here KM1−1 is the pre-shared secret key with the HN. 
(3)  Authentication Data Request (AUTHG1): SinceMSM1−1 is new; the SN without knowledge of the MS 
relays the foregoing message from MSM1−1 to the HN. The HN shall authenticate the roaming group 
(G1) which MSM1−1 belongs to. 
(4)  Authentication Data Response (AUTHH): The HN verifies the received MACM1−1 in AUTHG1 using 
KM1−1 (the pre-shared key with MSM1−1). If MSM1−1 is found authentic, the HN retrieves the 
corresponding group authentication key GAKG1 to generate a Group Transient Key GTKG1 = f 
3(RNM1−1||RNH||AMF||GAKG1). 
(5)  Authentication Request (AUTHSM1−1): After acquiring AUTHH for group G1, the SN conducts 
31 
Where,  
n: the number of the set of words. 
o: the length of the string. 
m: the movement direction and the number of position. 
E(x) = (x + k) mod n: Dynamic Caesar encryption algorithm. 
F(z) = (z + k) mod o: Transposition encryption algorithm. 
P(x) = (x - k) mod n: Dynamic Caesar cipher algorithm. 
Q(z) = (z - k) mod o: Transposition cipher algorithm. 
Where, 
x: the serial number of character (the first word is 0, the second character is 1, ..., and the 
last word is n -1).  
z: the serial number of string (the first word is 0, the second character is 1, ..., and the last 
word is n -1). 
The steps of HDCC encryption are shown in following: 
(1) Collection of computing the number of packet character string length n, and o. 
(2) To generate the movement direction and the number of position (m) by the random number 
generator. 
(3) To compute the total number of moving position by using k = (n + m) mod n. 
(4) To replace the encrypted plaintext by using E(x) = (x + k) mod n. 
(5) For the transposition cipher encryption by using F(z) = (z + k) mod o. 
The steps of HDCC decryption are shown in following: 
(1) To perform the transposition of the decryption by using Q(z) = (z - k) mod o. 
(2) To perform the decryption of cipher text by using P(x) = (x - k) mod n. 
3.2 Cipher-based Authentication and Key Agreement (CAKA) 
CAKA particular emphasis on applications and data centers demand for services between the 
certification and exchange of information security. CAKA use HDCC as encryption system, and the 
packet should be added to the front of the original encryption key to replace K, to encrypt the data once 
again, in addition to improve data security, but also will not waste too much Computing resources. The 
CAKA is shown in Figure 3. 
The symbols of CAKA used are defined as follows: 
SCold: The old application service code stored in the application server. 
SCnew: The new application service code stored in the application server. 
Kold:  Old keys stored in the application server and data center. 
Knew: New keys stored in the application server and data center. 
X: To identify the new or old key code. 
A B:⊕  A and B to do the operation XOR. 
A→B: A sends data to B. 
Pseudo Random Number Generator(PRNG): A random number generator. 
The progression steps of CAKA are shown in follows: 
(1)  Service server using PRNG and the key K to encrypt the application of the SC, and encrypted using 
HDCC on demand, and then identification code ID and the encrypted R is sent to data center needs 
in order to obtain the required services. 
(2)  When the data center receives the message ID and R after the check K value and the SC is new or 
old, and then confirm the SC value is a legitimate application service code. If the application 
services for the legal code, it will send data to the application server; if not certified to be illegal or 
application server, it will return the failure message. 
33 
Only services, data center, and transmission of information, do the security authentication mechanisms 
by CAKA, not too difficult and complicated by the certification procedure and the encryption. There are 
many cloud services in the cloud-computing environment, and the service demands of user are very 
large. Safety certification and information exchange process in CAKA are not require many computing 
resources, so it will not affect the quality of cloud services. 
In other words, our proposed CAKA, the relatively simple HDCC encryption is used to encrypt the data 
once again, in addition to improve data security, but also will not waste a lot of computing resources. In 
other words, our proposed CAKA, in addition to data center had to send out the information must be 
encrypted, this study also used a simpler HDCC encryption, encrypt the data once again, can enhance 
data security, and will not waste too much computing resources. 
(3) Attack methods: 
The proposed CAKA retained the original application of the new service code and the old and the new 
encryption key with the old model. Using the security mode of CAKA, even if the data being stolen or 
people who are interested in eavesdropping, and then use the way of replay attacks cannot succeed 
certification and information. The security mode of CAKA will not make the original stored data center 
applications is the code to replace the key is repeated, resulting in application server authentication 
cannot be successful. However, the security mode of CAKA can prevent re-sent by people who are 
interested the Denial of Service (DoS) attacks, hence, the application server can be certified and the 
normal application server and data center security can be enhanced.
 
 
5. CONCLUSION 
Cloud computing is a new concept in distributed systems. It is currently used mainly in business 
applications in which computers cooperate to perform a specific service together. In addition, the 
Internet applications are continuously enhanced with multimedia, and vigorous development of the 
device quickly occurs in the network system. As network bandwidth and quality outstrip computer 
performance, various communication and computing technologies previously regarded as being of 
different domains can now be integrated, such as telecommunication, multimedia, information 
technology, and construction simulation. Therefore, cloud computing is currently used many commodity 
computers that can cooperate to perform a specific service together. Thus, applications associated with 
network integration have gradually attracted considerable attention. 
In a cloud-computing environment, users can access the operational capability faster with Internet 
application, and the computer systems have the high stability to handle the service requests from many 
users in the environment. Today, a new application service of operation system is emerged and it 
changes the user’s usage in the past. Originally, the Internet infrastructure is continuous grow that many 
application services can be provided in the Internet. The reliability is improved in a cloud computing by 
using the low-power hosts. In addition, cloud computing has greatly encouraged distributed system 
design and application to support user-oriented service applications. Furthermore, there are a large 
number of cloud applications and data centers provided in the cloud computing environment, so the 
information and communications, and authentication is one of the important security issue that must be 
considered. In other words, the security is one of the most important aspects of cloud computing as it 
ensures overall reliability and fluency. To ensure the cloud computing is safety, a mechanism to ensure 
the security of information and communication is thus necessary. 
Therefore, a Cipher-based Authentication and Key Agreement (CAKA) is proposed to provide the 
security authentication of service to enhance the security of cloud computing environment. In addition, 
for the protection of information security in the cloud environment, Hybrid Dynamic Caesar Cipher 
(HDCC) is proposed to increase the difficulty of the password is cracked, but also to enhance the 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/15
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 有線及無線網路架構不明時之最佳化嚴謹式合議問題之研究
計畫主持人: 嚴國慶
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-324-022- 學門領域: 平行與分散處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究計畫原規劃以三年的時間來解決這個問題，包括如何設計實用可行的不
明網路架構模式，在此模式之下，分別針對僅處理單元損毀、僅網路連線損毀、
以及處理單元與網路連線均可能損毀等三種情形下嚴謹式合議問題的解決辦
法；此外，我們也將進一步考慮如果各損毀元件的傷害性未達惡質性損毀
(Malicious)模式時，達成嚴謹式合議的方法該如何改進使其成本可降低至合理
範圍內。但限於計畫的執行期間縮減為一年，因此僅完成不明網路架構網路拓
樸模式的重新建立。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
