中文摘要 此計畫提出一種針對正交頻率切割多工-分碼多重存取 (OFDM-CDMA) 下
傳系統通道參數估測與非同調資料偵測結合演算法。為減低運算複雜度，我們首先
發展一種樹狀演算法，其利用數階低複雜度參數估測演算法去估測多路徑通道之高
階參數。配合多重存取干擾消除技術，所提之樹狀演算法能同時估測 MIMO 
OFDM-CDMA下傳通道之路徑方位角、延遲時間，載波頻率偏移量與衰變振幅。利用此
數狀演算法之輸出信號，我們將可自然地以路徑式最大比例結合機制偵測出目標使
用者之信號。 
關鍵詞:參數式通道估測，訊號偵測，正交頻率切割多工-分碼多重存取 
 
Abstract A blind joint parametric channel estimation and non-coherent data detection 
algorithm is proposed for the downlink of an orthogonal-frequency-division-multiplexing 
code-division-multiple-access (OFDM-CDMA) system. To reduce the computational 
complexity, we first develop a tree-structured algorithm to estimate high dimensional 
parameters of the multipath channels by employing several stages of low dimensional 
parameter estimation algorithms. In conjunction with the multiple access interference 
(MAI) suppression techniques, the proposed tree architecture algorithm jointly estimates 
the direction of arrivals, propagation delays, carrier frequency offsets and fading 
amplitudes of the downlink wireless channels in a MIMO OFDM-CDMA system. With the 
outputs of the tree architecture, the signals of interest can then be naturally detected with 
a path-wise maximum ratio combining scheme. 
Keywords: Parametric Channel Estimation, Data Detection, OFDM-CDMA. 
 
 1
  
Fig. 1: The OFDM-CDMA system. 
 
2. System Model 
Shown in Fig. 1 illustrates the schematic of a downlink MIMO OFDM-CDMA 
system. The base station employs TM  transmit antennas each transmitting U data 
streams respectively for U  users. Each data symbol is modulated by a spreading 
sequence of length N  over the frequency domain. Hence, the nth  tone of the i th   
OFDM symbol of the uth  user sent by the mth  transmit antenna can be expressed as 
bm,ui n  dm,ui  s̄m,un; n  0,… , N − 1,  (1) 
where dm,ui  denotes the ith  data symbol of the uth  user transmitted from the mth   
transmit antenna, and s̄m,unn0N−1  is the spreading sequence of that user. An N -point 
inverse fast Fourier transformation (IFFT) is then applied to the OFDM symbol. The  
kth  temporal chip of the transformation is 
( ) [ ] ( ) [ ] ( ) [ ]1 , ,
1 0 1
,
U N U
i i nk
m m u N m u m u
u n u
c k b n W d i s k
−
= = =
= ⋅ = ⋅∑∑ ∑ ,  (2) 
where WN  ej2 /N , and [ ] [ ]1, ,0N nkm u m u Nns k s n W−== ⋅∑  denotes the IFFT of s̄m,un.   
In order to cope with the inter-symbol-interference (ISI) caused by multipath propagation 
in the wireless channel, a cyclic prefix is added at the beginning of each OFDM symbol. 
Assuming that the overall channel delay spread, including the maximum delay spread of 
multipaths plus the delay spread of the transceiving filters is less than  -temporal-chip 
long, we set the length of the prefix at   chips. The temporal chips of a resultant OFDM 
symbol are thus given as 
zmik   cmiN  k; k  −1,,−
cmik; k  0,, N − 1
.
 
(3) 
Modulated with the pulse-shaping waveform  gt,   the baseband signal 
transmitted by the  mth   antenna can then be expressed as 
 3
where  AR  aRR,1,1,,aRR,W,rW    denotes the receive spatial signature 
matrix of size  MR  P  ;  Bmi  diag mi  diag 1,1,mi ,,W,rW,mi   is the 
composite fading matrix of size P  P ; G  g1,1,,gW,rW NP is the 
pulse-shaping waveform matrix with ( ) ( ) ( ), , ,[ , , ,w p w p w pg g Tτ τ τ= − −g "  
( ) ( )(, ,1  Tw p w p Ng N Tτ ) 1]τ ×= − −g  being the N -point samples of  gt − w,p  ; 
operator ⊙ denotes the element-wise matrix product operation;  
Mf  mf,,mf   of size  N  P   denotes the carrier frequency offset 
matrix constructed by  mf  1,e−j2f,,e−j2fN−1 N1T   with  f  1N    and  
  N  T  f ′   being the frequency offset normalized to the spacing of the spectral 
elements; and  Ni   is the AWGN. Due to the effect of the cyclic prefix,  Sm,u   is a 
circulant matrix with  sm,u0, sm,u1,, sm,uN − 1   as its first row. If we define a 
row vector g̃m,u
T w,p,f  gTw,p   Sm,u  ⊙ mTf, and define  
( ) ( )( ) ( ) ( ) ( ), , , 1, 1 , ,, , , TT T Tm u m u m u m u W r W( ) ,f f fτ τ f⎡ ⎤Δ ⋅ Δ = Δ Δ⎣ ⎦G G S M g g   : "τ τ  as 
the temporal signature matrix of the  uth  user transmitted from the  mth   transmit 
antenna, then (7) can be simplified into 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )T , ,
1 1
,
M U
l i T
m m u m u
m u
i f
= =
= ⋅ ⋅ Δ ⋅ +∑∑X A B G NRθ τ d i i  
 
(8)
It is shown from (8) that the DOA and the delay-plus-frequency-offset 
information are respectively in the column and the row spaces of ( ) ( )l iX  .  
In the rest of this paper, without loss of generality, we only consider the receiver 
of the first user; therefore, the superscript l is dropped for notation simplicity. That is, 
we assume that the data symbolsdm,1i, spreaded by the spreading sequences of the 
first user, are the signals of interest. In addition, we neglect the noise term Ni  to 
further simplify the notation. 
3. The Proposed Algorithms 
The main idea behind the proposed algorithm is the grouping and isolation of the 
clustered multipaths in the wireless channel by distinguishing their respective spatial and 
temporal signatures. The S-MUSIC and the TF-MUSIC algorithms, respectively, defined 
as the MUSIC algorithm applied in the space and the time-frequency domains, hence 
perform the functions of DOA estimation and delay-plus-frequency-offset joint 
estimation. In the following subsections, we first review these two algorithms and then 
introduce the STSF algorithm. 
3.1 The S-MUSIC and the TF-MUSIC algorithms 
To exploit the signals inside the column space and the row space of Xi  in (8), 
we define the spatial and the time-frequency covariance matrices, respectively, as  
 5
delay-plus-frequency-offset joint estimation, frequency offset compensation, MAI 
suppression and path isolation, 3) the second S-stage for DOA fine estimation in the 
space domain and pairing of the delay estimates and the DOA estimates, and 4) the 
F-stage for fading amplitude estimation and data detection in the frequency domain. 
3.2.1 Spatial Group Separation 
In the first S-stage of the STSF algorithm, we intend to estimate the spatial 
signatures of each group, and then to separate each group from the receive signal. To 
achieve this, we first apply the S-MUSIC to Xi  and obtain the average DOA estimates 
of all the groups, denoted as 1ˆθ ˆ, ,  Wθ…   with  R, ,ˆ ;w w p p  1,2,, rw.θ θ≈   Based 
on these DOA estimates, the spatial group separation can be carried out through W   
spatial beamformers, each projecting the receive signals to the complementary orthogonal 
subspace of the space spanned by the group steering vectors except for that of the group 
of interest. For example, to construct the spatial beamformer for the wth  group, we 
define the spatial self-exclusive matrix as ( ){ }R ˆw k
k w
θ
≠
⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦A a  . As an illustration, for 
the first group, the corresponding spatial self-exclusive matrix is given as  ( )1 R 2ˆ[ , , ( )R ˆ ].Wθaθ=A a "   Accordingly, the spatial beamformer for the  wth   group 
can be expressed as  
s
w w
⊥=U A † ,w w= − ⋅I A A  (15)
where   denotes the Moore-Penrose pseudo inverse operation, and w⊥A  denotes the 
complementary orthogonal projection (COP) matrix of wA . Applying the spatial 
beamformer with respect to each group to ( )iX , the output of the wth  spatial 
beamformer is 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )TR R, , , , , , ,
1 1 1
, ,
r w M U
i T
w w w p w p m m u m u w p
p m u
i i d iθ β τ
= = =
= ⋅ = ⋅ ⋅ ⋅ Δ∑ ∑∑X U X a g s f
)θ
 (16)
where  denotes the projected steering vector within the  ( ) (sR R, , R R, ,w p w w pθ = ⋅a U a
wth  group with ({ )}R R, ,w pθa  of different p  values being close to one another. Note 
that, in addition to the signals of the user of interest,  Xwi   also contains signals 
intended for other unknown co-channel users which are referred to as the MAIs. The 
co-channel users are unknown in the sense that the spreading sequences of the MAIs are 
unknown to the user of interest. Therefore, MAI suppression is crucially important in the 
STSF algorithm. Since all the co-channel users possess the same spatial signatures, the 
MAIs can not possibly be eliminated in the space domain. However, the spreading 
sequences dedicated to the user of interest make the MAI suppression feasible in the time 
domain. In the T-stage of the STSF algorithm, the proposed approach suppresses the 
MAIs by using a spectral filter, as will be shown next. 
 
3.2.2 Delay-plus-Frequency-Offset Joint Estimation, MAI Suppression 
and Path Isolation 
 7
a single path. The S-MUSIC can be used again in the second S-stage to estimate the DOA 
of each path precisely. In the second S-stage of the STSF algorithm, by applying the 
S-MUSIC to (20), the DOA estimates { }R, ,ˆ w pθ  can be obtained. Further, the DOA 
estimate  will be automatically paired with the delay estimate R, ,ˆ w pθ ,ˆw pτ  estimated 
earlier in the T-stage. We refer to the STSF algorithm with the COP spectral filters as the 
STSF-COP algorithm, and the STSF algorithm with the MVDR spectral filters as the 
STSF-MVDR algorithm. 
3.2.4 The Path-wise Maximum Ratio Combining 
By observing the output of the STSF algorithm, we notice that the signals from 
different transmit antennas for different users are all well separated in a blind approach. 
The STSF algorithm only expects to know the spreading sequences of the user of interest, 
assumed to be the first user in the algorithm described above. By exploiting the path 
structure inherent in the STSF algorithm, we next introduce a path-wise maximum ratio 
combiner (PMRC). 
Before the PMRC, the composite path fading amplitudes must be determined 
first. To do so, for the STSF-COP algorithm, the COP filter output signal Xw,p,mi  in  
(21) is spatially matched and temporally despreaded to produce a scalar quantity, which 
can be expressed as  
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ), , R R, , , , , , , , , 1ˆ .Hw p m w p w p m m u w p w p m mu i i d iθ τ β∗= ⋅ ⋅ ≈ ⋅a X v  (22)
where ( ) ( )( )
R, ,
R R, ,
R, ,
ˆ
ˆ
ˆ
w pH
w p
w p
θθ θ=
a
a
a


R
R
 and ( ) ( )( )
, ,
, ,
, ,
m u w p
m u w p
m u w p
ττ τ
∗
∗=
v
v
v

  where •  means the 
vector 2-norm. By stacking all the scalar quantities obtained from (22) for different 
multipaths, we have 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )1, 1, , 11, 1 , , , 1, , , , ,
T
m m mr m W r W m P
i u i u i u i d i
×
⎡ ⎤ ≈ ⋅⎣ ⎦u  " " β  (23)
where ( ) ( )1, 1 1, 1 , 1, , , ,
T
r W r W P
β β β
×
⎡⎣ " "β = ⎤⎦ . With the ambiguity of a complex scaling 
factor α , the estimate of the fading vector  is obviously given as the largest 
eigenvector of the covariance matrix  
βˆ
( ) ( )( ){ } .H Hm mE i i= ⋅ =uR u u β ⋅β  (24)
Finally, let us identify the transmit signal for the user of interest. This is carried 
out through the PMRC by multiplying  back to (23) as  βˆ
( ) ( ) 2, 1ˆ .H m mi d i α⋅ ≈ ⋅ ⋅β u β  (25)
Assume  is ( ), 1md i M -PSK differentially modulated, the detection of the 
signal from the  transmit antenna is then performed by thm
( )( )ˆ 1H m i ∗⋅ − ⋅β u ( )( ) ( )( ) ( ), 1 , 1ˆ 1H m m mi d i d i∗⋅ = ⋅ −β u 4 2ˆ .α⋅ ⋅β  (26)
which produces a result consistent in phase with the ideal differential decoder output,  
dm,1i − 1∗  dm,1i  . 
 9
matrix, the proposed STSF-based algorithms significantly reduce the order down to max 
( ) ( ){ }3R ,O M O N 3 ,   due to its tree structure in conjunction with several low 
dimensional parameter estimation algorithms. 
 
5. Conclusions 
In this paper, several blind algorithms are proposed for joint channel parameter 
estimation and data detection for wireless down-link MIMO OFDM-CDMA systems. 
Signals received at the antenna array are pathwisely separated and isolated according to 
their DOA-delay values, and then a proposed PMRC is applied to extract the data. In the 
estimation of path DOAs, path delays, and frequency offset, as compared to the 3-D 
MUSIC algorithm, the STSF-based algorithms maintain similar and sometimes even 
lower RMSE of the estimates while enjoying substantially less computational complexity. 
In the data detection part, with excellent capability in MAI suppression, the 
STSF-MVDR algorithm generally performs better than the STSF-COP algorithm and the 
conventional ST-RAKE algorithm in terms of BER. 
 
References 
[1] IEEE Std. 802.g-2003, Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical 
Layer (PHY) Specifications: Further higher data rate extension in the 2.4 GHz band. 
[2] A. Doufexi, S. Armour, M. Butler, A. Nix, D. Bull, J. McGeehan, and P. Karlsson, " 
A comparison of the HIPERLAN/2 and IEEE 802.11a wireless LAN standards," 
IEEE Commun. Mag., Vol. 40, pp. 172-180, May 2002. 
[3] Thomas Ostman, Stefan Parkvall, and Bjorn E. Ottersten, An improved MUSIC 
algorithm for estimation of time delays in asynchronous DS-CDMA systems, IEEE 
trans. on communs., pp. 1628-1631, Nov. 1999. 
[4] R. O. Schmidt, Multiple emitter location and signal parameter estimation, Ph. D. 
dissertation, Stanford Univ., Stanford, CA, 1981. 
[5] C.-M. Chang, K.-C. Chen, Joint Linear Timing and Carrier Phase Estimation of 
DS-CDMA multiuser communications, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Comm., 
pp. 8798, Jan. 2000. 
[6] M. C. Vanderveen, A. J. van der Veen, and A. Paulraj, Estimation of Multipath 
Parameters in Wireless Communications, IEEE Trans. Signal Processing , pp. 682 
-690, Mar. 1998. 
 11
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                日期：96年9月15日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：多輸入多輸出正交頻率切割多工分碼多重存取下傳系統
接收器設計及其效能分析 
計畫主持人：王永宜        
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E －129 －005 學門領域：電信 
技術/創作名稱 多輸入多輸出正交頻率切割多工分碼多重存取下傳系統接收器設計及其效能分析 
發明人/創作人 王永宜 
中文： 
此計畫提出一種針對正交頻率切割多工-分碼多重存取
(OFDM-CDMA) 下傳系統通道參數估測與非同調資料偵測結合演算
法。為減低運算複雜度，我們首先發展一種樹狀演算法，其利用數
階低複雜度參數估測演算法去估測多路徑通道之高階參數。配合多
重存取干擾消除技術，所提之樹狀演算法能同時估測 MIMO 
OFDM-CDMA 下傳通道之路徑方位角、延遲時間，載波頻率偏移量與
衰變振幅。利用此數狀演算法之輸出信號，我們將可自然地以路徑
式最大比例結合機制偵測出目標使用者之信號。 
技術說明 
英文： 
A blind joint parametric channel estimation and non-coherent data 
detection algorithm is proposed for the downlink of an 
orthogonal-frequency-division-multiplexing-code-division-multiple-  
access (OFDM-CDMA) system. To reduce the computational 
complexity, we first develop a tree-structured algorithm to estimate 
high dimensional parameters of the multipath channels by employing 
several stages of low dimensional parameter estimation algorithms. In 
conjunction with the multiple access interference (MAI) suppression 
techniques, the proposed tree architecture algorithm jointly estimates 
the direction of arrivals, propagation delays, carrier frequency offsets 
and fading amplitudes of the downlink wireless channels in a MIMO 
OFDM-CDMA system. With the outputs of the tree architecture, the 
signals of interest can then be naturally detected with a path-wise 
maximum ratio combining scheme. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
通訊 
附件二 
 13
