積體電路雜訊偵測關鍵技術研究 
The research of key circuit design techniques  
for noise detection in integrated circuits 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-182-072 
執行期間：95年 8月 1日 至 96年 7月 31日 
主持人：周煌程 長庚大學 電子工程系 副教授 
一、 中文摘要 
本研究計畫的目的在於開發一雜訊偵測與量
測電路，用以偵測雜訊並找出雜訊大小(power 
supply noise, PSN)，藉以判斷雜訊嚴重程
度。本研究提出的雜訊偵測電路預期具有無 DC
功率、高速、小面積、高解析度及方便使用等
創新特性。此外，此電路可直接用於晶片內，
可做為 cell以 built-in形式或者形成陣列排
放在 core四周，透過 wire來連接測試電路中
各點的訊號情形，可代替傳統以探針測點的不
便，並獲取雜訊的分佈情形。透過雜訊偵測電
路回饋的雜訊大小分佈資訊，對於晶片測試中
的除錯及可靠度分析幫助很大。另外，對於改
版設計時電源線及訊號線的佈局規劃與電路
擺置亦有所助益。 
英文摘要 
It is important to research and design 
noise detection circuits for disclosing 
the values of the real noise that an IC 
encounters in its operations. Therefore, 
the main research topic of this project is 
devoted to innovative noise detectors with 
no DC power, high speed (GHz operation), 
small area, high resolution and easy to use. 
The proposed noise detector will be built 
as a standard cell that is easy to place 
at any position in the chip to obtain the 
noise distribution information. Both the 
peak values and levelizations of noises 
will be investigated. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
隨著積體電路(integrated circuit，IC)的製
程技術日益精進，目前使用 0.18μm或以下的
製程的 IC產品已經廣泛被運用﹕ 
(1)工作電壓由已往的 3.3 伏特降至 1.8 伏
特，甚至使用 1 伏特以下的低電壓。工作
電壓的降低，相當有利於減少 IC的功率消
耗。 
(2)通道變短，讓電晶體更快速的開關。電流
更快的通過，讓電路可以更快速的工作。 
(3)電晶體縮小，使得單位面積內電晶體密度
變高。高複雜度 IC 設計的發展，結合了
RF、類比及數位電路共同所組成系統整合
晶片(system-on-a-chip，SOC)，成功的減
少面積、功率消耗和成本，並提供更多的
功能。 
在上述的優點外，積體電路製程技術進步，也
產生了一些複雜的交互作用，伴隨而產生一些
問題，其中最大的問題在於訊號完整性
(signal integrity)。訊號完整性問題主要來
自雜訊的影響。尤其當製程技術進入深次微米
低功率以後，工作電壓下降，雜訊對訊號相對
影響力變大，雜訊免疫能力大幅降低。存在電
路中的雜訊卻會使得訊號完整性降低，進而造
成積體電路效能變差、功能發生錯誤或可靠度
大幅降低。 
積體電路中產生雜訊的原因可歸為三大
類，分別是電感、電容及電阻所造成的雜訊。
VCQ D´=D ，影響電壓相對的變小)，但相對
SF 電流就必須變大(約為 1.6mA  ~ 2.5mA﹕
VCIt D´=´D ， 假 設 充 電 電 流 不 變 、
C=0.25pF、 VD =0.9V，欲使 pst 100<D ， I 需
要 2.25mA以上)。 
Reset
重置
信號
 
圖 2 (a)偵測工作電壓凸波雜訊電路模擬結果 
 
圖 2 (b) 工作電壓上產生隨機雜訊偵測結果 
圖 2(b)為工作電壓上產生隨機雜訊偵測
結果，其中包含重置訊號、雜訊、偵測值。由
圖可知此電路能在重置週期內偵測其雜訊最
大值並將其電壓值儲存於電容。 
本計畫完成四種不同雜訊偵測電路，統稱
為電壓源雜訊偵測器(Power Supply Noise 
Detector, PSND)，如下表。 
 PSND電路架構一覽表 
工作電壓凸波雜訊量測電路 SF- 接 OP-N 
工作電壓壓降雜訊量測電路 SF- 接 OP-P 
接地點凸波雜訊量測電路 SF+ 接 OP-N 
接地點壓降雜訊量測電路 SF+ 接 OP-P 
其中 SF+代表電壓上移電路，為 PMOS所組成；SF-代表
電壓下移電路，為 NMOS 組成。OP-P 代表 PMOS 差動對
放大器，後面接 NMOS；OP-N代表 NMOS差動對放大器，
後面接 PMOS。 
 
圖 3為偵測結果誤差比較圖，X軸為輸入雜訊
振幅大小，由 7.5%VDD ~ 55%VDD 。Y 軸為偵
測值與理想曲線值之誤差大小。總體來看，在
輸入雜訊範圍為 10% ~ 45% VDD時，其誤差約
為正負百分之五。 
誤差(%)
(%VDD)
<<<  VDD 凸波
>>>   VSS 凸波
+++  VDD 壓降
***    VSS 壓降
 
圖 3電壓值誤差比較圖 
 
 
測試晶片製作 
實測結果: 
 
圖 4 
如圖 4所示，黃色部分為 VDD上的雜訊源，綠
色為 VDD_DROP所偵測到的結果，紅色為數位
ND所偵測到的結果；紫色部分為 CLOCK。如圖
5所示，黃色部分為 VSS上的雜訊源，綠色為
VSS_OVERSHOOT所偵測到的結果，紅色為數位
ND所偵測到的結果；紫色部分為 CLOCK。 
國際學術會議報告 
 95 年 12 月 7 日 
報告人姓名 周煌程 
服務機構 
及職稱 
長庚大學電子工程學系 
副教授 
會議期間 
會議地點 
2006/11/20~2006/11/22 
美國 舊金山 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC95-2221-E-182-072 
會議名稱 (中文) 第四屆 IASTED國際電路訊號與系統會議 
(英文) The 4th IASTED International Conference on Circuits, 
Signals and Systems 
發表論文題目 
 
(中文)具有低功耗與低擾動的高精準全數位鎖相迴路 
(英文)A high precision all-digital phase-locked loop with low 
power and low jitter 
 
一、參加會議經過 
個人自 11月 20日至 22日赴美國 舊金山市參加「第四屆 IASTED國際電路訊號
與系統會議」(International Conference on Circuits, Signals and Systems)，
並親自發表論文一篇。該項會議是由國際科學與技術發展協會(International 
Association of Science and Technology for Development, IASTED)所主辦，
今年選擇在舊金山 Nob Hill 的 InterContinental Mark Hopkins Hotel舉行。主辦單
位 IASTED是為非營利組織，成立至今已有 30年的歴史，負責過 500多個國際會
議。 
 
會議的第一天首先安排主席 Jose Silva-Martinez教授(Texas A&M University, 
USA)發表歡迎詞，接著國際知名學者 UCLA Behzad Razavi 教授進行專題演講，
主講的題目為 “60 GHz Transceivers in CMOS: Why and How ?”。接下來的
三天議程便同時分兩個場地，全部進行口頭論文的宣讀與討論。而參與本會的學
者專家來自全球各地二十多個國家，值得一提的，臺灣今年參與此會議的學者亦
有數位。另外，本會議特別在第二天下午安排一個半天的專題課程(Tutorial)，
介紹 RF Wireless Integrated Systems。今年大會議程總共安排了 12 個
sessions，內容涵蓋了電路與系統的重要主題，筆者選擇較感興趣的場次聆聽，
包括第一天的 Circuits and PLLs、Analog Circuits and Systems、第二天的
Digital Circuits and Systems、Mixed Mode Circuits and Data Converters、
第三天的 Digital Signal Processing及 Digital VLSI等。 
 
二、與會心得 
本屆國際電路訊號與系統會議是為電路與系統領域研究學者及業界專家的年度
技術交流盛會，由於強調參與者的互動討論，因此收錄論文全部都是口頭報告進
 
 
 
A HIGH PRECISION ALL-DIGITAL PHASE-LOCKED LOOP  
WITH LOW POWER AND LOW JITTER 
 
 
Hwang-Cherng Chow and Chung-Hsin Su 
Department and Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, Chang Gung University 
259 Wen-Hwa 1st Road, Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yuan 333 
TAIWAN, ROC 
Email: hcchow@mail.cgu.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
A new method is proposed in the paper, to accomplish the 
fine tune unit of the digital controlled oscillator of an all-
digital phase-locked loop (ADPLL). Instead of using 
adjustable currents, we utilize the difference of the 
equivalent capacitance obtained from the drain of MOS 
transistors between on and off conditions as the fine tune 
delay parameter. Based on post-layout simulation results, 
the time resolution of the fine tune delay element 
including parasitic capacitances, can achieve 1.7126 ps. 
The operating frequency range of this presented ADPLL 
is between 308 MHz and 587 MHz. As compared to prior 
arts, the power consumption per MHz is improved by 
15% and the jitter is less than 5 ps, which has a significant 
improvement. 
 
KEY WORDS 
All-digital phase-locked loop, low power, low jitter, and 
digitally-controlled oscillator 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
 
Phase-locked loops have been applied to high frequency 
clock signal processing of microprocessors [1-6]. It can 
fix both the internal and external clock delays that would 
affect the setup time and hold time of the input and output 
signals of sequential circuits. 
 
Phase-locked loops can be classified into four groups 
including linear phase-locked loop, digital phase-locked 
loop, all digital phase-locked loop (ADPLL), and 
software phase-locked loop. Since an ADPLL is of digital 
circuitry, it is easier to implement and therefore it is 
usually used in digital integrated circuits. So, the key 
point of this paper is to present an ADPLL design with a 
new fine-tune delay element. 
 
An ADPLL is composed of several circuit units 
which include a frequency coarse tune detector, a 
frequency fine tune detector, a phase detector, a control 
unit, a decoder, a divider and a digitally-controlled 
oscillator (DCO). The phase-locked procedures for this 
ADPLL are consecutively frequency coarse tune search 
first, then frequency fine tune search and finally phase 
search, respectively. 
 
 
2.  Proposed Architecture 
 
The proposed ADPLL block diagram is depicted in Fig. 1. 
The frequency coarse tune detector uses the binary search 
algorithm, from the MSB to LSB, in sequence. The 
frequency fine tune detector uses the method of error 
correction to obtain the frequency fine tune. Each time, 
the control word CW[9:0] is increased or decreased only 
by one. The phase detector determines the phase 
difference between the signals REFCLK and DIVCLK. If 
the signal REFCLK is ahead of the signal DIVCLK, the 
output frequency of DCO is too low. The signal CU sends 
the UP register data to CW[9:0]. As a consequence, the 
output frequency of the DCO will increase.  
 
Otherwise, if the signal DIVCLK is ahead of the 
signal REFCLK, the output frequency of the DCO is too 
high. The signal CU sends the DOWN register data to 
CW[9:0]. As a consequence, the output frequency of the 
DCO will decrease.  
 
The decoder converts the binary code to the controlled 
signal of the DCO. The DCO generates the frequency in 
accordance with the controlled signal. The divider divides 
the output signal of the DCO by MDATA and sends an 
output as DIVCLK. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 The proposed ADPLL block diagram 
531-064 47
Fig. 5 shows the FDC cell circuit, which consists of 
one inverter and 16 NMOS transistors. The NMOS drain 
is connected to the output side of the inverter. While the 
NMOS source is especially left floating. When the NMOS 
device turns on and off the difference of the equivalent 
capacitances obtained from the drain terminal is denoted 
as C. Therefore, when all NMOS transistors are off the 
total capacitance of the output of the inverter is C0out, 
where C0out=CdNMA+CdPMA+16×Cnoff. 
 
When k NMOS transistors are on the total capacitance 
of the output of the inverter is Ckout,  where 
 
Ckout=CdNMA+CdPMA+16×Cnoff + k ×C. 
 
  
 
Fig. 5 FDC cell circuit 
 
 
When the charging or discharging current does not 
change but if the total capacitance increases the delay 
time will also proportionally increase. Therefore, the 
more the number of NMOS turns on the longer the delay 
time is. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 MOS capacitance model 
Fig. 6 shows all NMOS capacitances associated with 
four terminals. When the control gate is logic 0, the 
NMOS is off. The equivalent capacitance obtained from 
the drain is CDB+CGD0. This is shown in Fig. 7.  
 
As the control gate is logic 1, the NMOS is on. This 
leads to the total equivalent capacitance obtained from the 
drain against VDD has CGS, and CGD, and against ground 
has CDB and CSB. This is shown in Fig. 8. When the 
NMOS turns on and off, the difference of the equivalent 
capacitance obtained from the drain is C, as follows 
 
C =CDon-CDoff 
  =CGS+CGD+CDB+CSB-CDB-CGD0 
  = CSB +CGS+CGD- CGD0 
 
The capacitance value of C is mainly determined 
from the layout area of the gate, therefore it could be 
obtained as a stable capacitor. Furthermore, its value is 
only of several fento Farad per micron device width. Note 
that this equivalent capacitance is of very high precision.  
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Drain capacitances when NMOS off 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Drain capacitances when NMOS on 
 
49
