 1
摘要 
 
本計劃探討團鍊共聚高分子與導電高分子聚苯胺的混成物的特性。混成物的製備是由
不同組成的共聚高分子與聚苯胺以不同比例溶解於共同的溶劑再經由溶劑揮發而得。團鍊
共聚高分子是經由陰離子聚合及相關的化學反應而得，因此具備了精確的分子量控制。此
高分子其中一鍊段為一具有磺酸根的高分子電解質且與聚苯胺之間有強烈的作用力，因此
混成物可能形成奈米微相分離結而使其兼具有聚苯胺的導電性與共聚高分子可製備性及機
械強度。此研究也探討混成物的巨觀特性、如導電度，與微結構的之間的關連性並學習影
響微結構的因素，如共聚高分子的化學組成及混成物的組成等。 
 
關鍵詞：聚苯胺、導電高分子、高分子混成物、高分子電解質、團鍊共聚高分子、奈米微
相分離結構、自組裝、陰離子聚合 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
In this study, polymer blends consisting of polyaniline(PANi) and sulfonated block 
copolymer (BCP) were prepared by solvent casting from the mixtures of PANi solution and 
sulfonated BCP solution with various compositions. The sulfonated BCPs with accurate control 
of molecular weight were synthesized through anionic polymerization and sequential analogous 
chemistry. The sulfonated segment of the BCP showed strong interaction with PANi so that PANi 
could homogeneously disperse in the blends leading to microphase separated nanostructures. 
Therefore, the blends were expected to combine the good electrical conductivity of PANi and the 
mechanical flexibility of the block copolymer. The interplay between the compositions of the 
blends, the self-assembled nanostructures and the bulk properties of the blends were also 
investigated. 
 
Key words: PANi, conducting polymer, polyelectrolyte, polymer blend, block copolymer, 
self-assembly, microphase separation, anionic polymerization. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Polyaniline is one of the most extensively investigated conducting polymer because of its 
promising electronic conductivity and environmental stability for various applications (in what 
area?). However, the major drawbacks of polyaniline are the brittleness, poor solubility in 
common solvents, and the difficulty in processing. To solve the above issues of PANi, one of the 
popular approaches is the incorporation of PANi into an electrical insulating conventional 
polymer matrix for the possibility to combine the good processability and mechanical 
performance of the conventional polymers with the electrical and optical properties of PANi. 
These blends are usually obtained by in situ polymerization of aniline in the presence of the 
insulating polymer or by blending PANi with polymers in solution or in melts.1 The use of PVC2, 
 3
methanol. The product in reactor was greenish emeraldine salt and 4wt% NH4OH(aq) was then 
added to de-dope the polyaniline to obtain the blue emeraldine base.  
THF
-78℃
O
O
HCl
Dioxane
Sec-BuLi  +
p-1 THF  ,   -78℃
MeOH
p q
s-Bu
OH
p q
tBu
KH
THF
O
S
O O
O
p q
HCl
O
p q
PS-b-PtBS
PS-b-PHS PS-b-sPHSK PS-b-sPHS
(CH2)3 SO3K (CH2)3 SO3H
Scheme.1 Synthesis route for sulfonated block copolymer, PS-b-sPHS 
 
Preparation of blends consisting of PS-b-sPHS and PANi. Desired amount of PANi 
(emeraldine base) was dissolved in NMP. PS-b-sPHS was also dissolved in another bottle of 
NMP at 80℃. The two solutions were then mixed at 80℃. The blends can be obtained by solvent 
casting through slowly removal of NMP at 80℃. 
Conductivity measurement. The electric conductivity of PANi and the blends were measured by 
four-probe conductivity measurement. Powder PANi was pressed to became ingot and the blends 
was in the form of thin film for the resistance measurement 
. 
RESULT and DISCUSSION 
 
Synthesis of PS-b-sPHS block copolymer. Three PS-b-PtBS block copolymers with different 
molecular weights and molecular weight ratios between the two blocks were synthesized. The 
three different compositions were designed to study the molecular weight effect on the 
morphology and the conductivity of the corresponding blends. The Mn of each block and the 
polydispersity, determined from GPC, are listed in Table.1. Figure.1(a) shows the GPC traces of 
the PS-b-PtBS-1 copolymer having a Mn of 27,900 g/mole for PS block and a total Mn of 40,140 
g/mole with a narrow molecular weight distribution around 1.11. The accurate MW of the PtBS 
block was obtained from the molar ratio of PtBS/PS calculated from the NMR spectrum as shown 
in Figure.1(b) The conversion of PtBS to PHS was successfully carried out indicated by the 
disappearance of the peak at δ = 1.25ppm in the NMR spectrum shown in Figure.2(a). After the 
attachment of sulfonic acids to PHS, the block copolymer became insoluble in any d-solvent. In 
order to identify the attachment ratio of the sulfonic acid groups, the –SO3H groups were 
 5
in GPC. 
Table.2 PANi prepared from different feed ratios and their conductivities. 
Sample Aniline/DBSA 
molar ratio 
R (resistence) 
(Ω) 
Conductivity 
(S/cm) 
PANi-1 1:1 1 0.637 
PANi-2 2:1 2 0.445 
PANi-3 3:1 4.3 0.177 
 
Blends of PANi and PS-b-sPHS. Since PS is hydrophobic while sPHS is hydrophilic, the block 
copolymer could form micelles in most of common solvents at room temperature. High 
temperature therefore is preferred to dissolve the sulfonated BCP. NMP is the only solvent we 
found which could dissolve both PANi and PS-b-sPHS. The mixtures of the sulfonated BCP 
solution and the PANi solution were greenish which suggested that the sulfonic acid groups of the 
block copolymer could interact with PANi strongly to dope PANi. The thin film, for example, 
obtained from the mixture of 4wt% PS-b-sPHS1 in NMP and 4wt% PANi-3 in NMP with 1: 1 
volume ratio, exhibited a rough surface and cracked easily. The poor mechanical properties of the 
thin film might be attributed to the high Tg of PS as well as the macroscopic phase separation 
between PANi and PS-b-sPHS. As the solvent evaporated, the block copolymer chains which 
didn’t interact with the PANi and the undoped PANi might precipitate first. In addition, the high 
MW fractions of PANi might not entangle completely with sPHS segments, leading to 
heterogeneous dispersion of PANi. Therefore, the optimization of the parameters of the blends, 
including the composition of PS-b-sPHS, the MW of PANi, the ratio between BCP and PANi and 
the concentration of the solution, is needed for further study to obtain homogeneous blends with 
ordered microphase separated nanostructures. Unfortunately, conductivity and mechanical 
properties are not available so far due to the brittleness of the samples. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
Sulfonated block copolymers, PS-b-sPHS, with various molecular weights and compositions 
were synthesized successfully. All the polymers possess narrow molecular weight distribution. 
PANi were also prepared with different conditions for the variation of conductivity and molecular 
weight. It has been shown that these BCPs can interact strongly with PANi. Thin films of the 
blends of the BCPs and PANi were obtained from solvent casting and which exhibited certain 
degree of macrophase separation. Further research is needed to optimize the blends to achieve 
homogeneous distribution of PANi in the polymer matrix for good conductivity and mechanical 
property. 
 
 
 
 
