Development of Brain Computer Interface System (1/3) 
Yu-Te Wu1,2,3  Chih-I Hung1  Yen-Chun Chou1  Chi-Hsun Wu4 
 
1Institute of Radiological Sciences, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan;  
2Laboratory of Integrated Brain Research, Department of Medical Research and Education, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan 
3Institute of Health Informatics and Decision Making, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan 
4Department of Electrical Engineering National Central University Chung-Li 320, Taiwan 
Project Number: NSC 93-2218-E-010-001 
Execution Period: 2004/10/01-2007/09/30 
 
 
中文摘要 
    隨著人口逐漸老化，爲節省老年人照護上的
成本，並達到即時給予協助的目的，智慧型居家看
護系統的需求與發展勢必是未來的趨勢，本計畫致
力於整合現有科技，以期發展最完善的看護系統。
本子計劃著重於腦波辨識人機介面系統之基礎研
究與即時系統之建立，所謂腦波辨識人機介面是經
由要求受測者執行特定的作業(task)，使大腦產生
特定的誘發腦波，經由辨識這些被誘發的腦波，達
到傳達使用者意念、腦波控制的目的。讓使用者直
接利用腦部訊號與外界溝通的系統，可以透過腦波
訊號監測臥床病人的生理需求，也可利用腦波辨識
輸出訊號調整病床，或啟動按摩功能以減輕長期臥
床之不適及降低褥瘡產生的機會。 
 
本子計畫已完成之進度 
1. 建立想像手指運動實驗模式，評估獨立成份分
析法對腦波辨識率提升的效果，比較不同分類
器對此腦波之辨識能力。 
2. 以閃爍視覺誘發電位 (Flash Visual Evoked 
Potential; FVEP)為基礎，利用隨機閃爍時序建
立多重選項之腦波人機介面。 
3. 建立腦波辨識人機介面即時系統與多功能智
慧型病床系統整合。 
關鍵詞: 智慧型居家看護系統、腦波辨識人機介面
系統、腦波辨識人機介面即時系統 
 
 
Abstract 
Brain-computer interface (BCI) is a technique 
that employs the classified brain signal as a triggering 
signal to control device or communicate with external 
environment. This technique is particular useful for the 
handicapped patients such as paralyzed or stroked ones 
who cannot control their own body motion. BCI input 
consists of distinguishable features of brain activity 
induced by a particular task and the methodology used 
to measure that feature. The aim of this component 
project is to develop a real-time BCI system consists of 
online signal acquisition, feature extraction and 
translation into device control command. 
 
This subproject performed:  
(1) Establishment of the experimental paradigm for 
left and right hand imagery movement and 
demonstration of the advantages of ICA in artifacts 
removal and the superiority of ICA-based rebound 
maps in classification. 
(2) A flash visual evoked potential (VEP)-based brain 
computer interface was presented. The flickering 
items were temporally encoded by random 
sequences in order to increase the orthogonality 
between peripheral channels. 
(3) Real-time Implementation of flash VEP-based BCI 
and integration into surveillance system. 
Keywords: intelligent home-care system, 
brain-computer interface 
 
Background 
In recent years, great progress in neuroscience 
has inspired studies in developing brain computer 
interface (BCI)[1-4], a novel technique in assisting 
people to communicate with external environments or 
trigger surrounding devices by means of their brain 
signals. These systems are particularly useful for ones 
who suffer from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or 
locked-in syndrome and are unable to produce any 
motor activity. Their cognition or sensor functions, 
however, may be intact so that they can be trained to 
perform mental tasks, for example, in simulating 
right or left hand or foot movements without any 
overt motor output. The success of BCI systems 
relies on two integral parts: distinguishable neural 
patterns and effective translation algorithm. In this 
subproject, two kinds of BCI were presented, 
including (i) motor imagery system, (ii) flash 
VEP-based BCI system. 
 
I. Motor imagery system 
Experimental Paradigm for Motor Imagery 
Four right-handed healthy subjects (two males 
and two females), aged between 20 and 28, 
with 12 IC spatial maps of single trial and the bets two 
matches were selected.  For example, the spatial maps 
IC3, IC5, IC7 and IC9 in Figure 3 were selected 
automatically due to their high similarity. The 
task-related IC spatial maps as well as the 
corresponding temporal components were used to 
reconstruct the signal X by means of equation (1).   
Step 3: Computing the envelopes of beta reactivity 
from reconstructed signals using the Amplitude 
Modulation method. The optimal beta frequency band 
encompassing the prominent and relevant brain 
activities may vary across subjects and subjects. To 
tackle this problem, we divided the beta band, into five 
sub-frequency bands, 8~12, 12~16, 16~20, 20~24, and 
24~ 28 Hz, and used them with additional beta band 
8~30 Hz to band-pass filter the reconstructed signals. 
The Amplitude Modulation (AM) method based on the 
Hilbert transform was applied to detect the envelope of 
the filtered EEG signals and quantify the event-related 
oscillatory activities[1]. Each envelope, referred to as 
AM waveform, was computed by (see Figure 5 (a)) 
  
22 ))(()()( tMHtMtm BPBP +=        (2) 
Step 4: Extracting the beta rebound maps. The 
imagery finger lifting task, similar to real finger 
movement, induced larger beta rebound in the 
contralateral sensorimotor area than that in the 
ipsilateral one. In addition, the contralateral beta 
rebound appeared earlier than the ipsilateral one. The 
co-existence of prominent beta rebounds at C3 and 
C4 and the constrained time lag between them 
suggested that the topographical maps with 
maximum rebounds at C3 and C4 were reliable 
features. Specifically, we looked for two time points 
at which both the AM waveforms of C3 and C4 have 
maximum peaks but with time lag ( TΔ  in Figure 
5(a)) less than 0.5 second. The topographical maps at 
these two time points, referred to as beta rebound 
maps (Figure 5. (c)), were concatenated into a 
1124×  column vector and used as a feature vector.  
Using the same time points of the peaked beta 
rebound resulted from steps1 ~ 4, we processed the 
data using step 3 only, i.e. without using ICA. Figure 
6 depicts the extracted beta rebound maps and 
appears to be contaminated due to noise compared 
with those in Fig. 5.  
 
 
Two-Class Supervised Classification 
 
    In this section, four two-category classifiers 
used in our study are briefly reviewed. They were 
linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and support 
vector machine (SVM). The beta rebound maps, 
denoted by i
xv
, of imagery right and left hand 
movement, each of them is a 1124× column vector 
and, were divided into two data sets, one for training 
and the other for testing the classifiers. The numbers 
of beta rebound maps used in the training and testing 
phases for each subject at each session were 60 and 
30. These beta rebound maps were randomized 
before being used. For the sake of simplicity, we use 
the notation R and L to denote the category of 
imagery right and left hand movement, respectively, 
in the following discussion.  
 
 
LDA 
    The idea of LDA is to seek a vector w
r
 so that 
Figure 3. The normalized IC spatial maps of a single-trial 
imagery right hand movement. 
Figure 4. Spatial templates used to select task-related IC 
spatial maps. 
Figure 5. Computation of the beta rebound maps. (a) The AM 
waveform of C3 and C4. TΔ was the time lag between 
prominent beta rebounds at C3 and C4. (b) Reconstructed 
signals of 62 channels (excluded HEOG and VEOG) which were 
used to calculate the AM waveforms in (a). (c) The beta rebound 
maps created from reconstructed signals on 62 channels indexed 
to the time points of peaked beta rebounds at C3 and C4. 
each classifier has superior performance regardless of 
subjects and the overall averaged recognition score 
improved significantly from 55% to 73.9 %. 
  We have presented a novel method using ICA in 
extracting a reliable feature, the beta rebound map, 
from the peaked ERS of motor imagery EEG. With a 
minimum training for each subject (20 minutes only), 
satisfactory classification rates from four classifiers 
have been achieved. This demonstrated the suitability 
of beta rebound map as neural input signals in the 
application of BCI systems. 
 
 
II. Flash Visual Evoked Potential-based 
BCI 
 
In this Letter we propose a BCI system for 
cursor-movement control and button clicks on a screen 
menu based on FVEPs induced by flash onsets of light 
emitting diodes (LEDs) located at six different 
positions (see Fig. 6). Visual evoked potential (VEP) 
has been used as a clinical index to monitor anaesthesia 
level during surgical operations, to diagnose 
retrochiasmal lesions, to indicate intracranial pressure 
induced by head injury, and to warn of brain death [6]. 
Based on the neural connections and interactions of the 
route from the retina to the primary visual cortex, visual 
stimuli in the central visual field can generate a 
‘cortical magnification’ which makes the central VEPs 
more prominent than VEPs stimulated in peripheral 
visual fields[8]. The proposed system detects central 
FVEPs for identifying gazed LEDs and in turn activates 
corresponding cursor commands. However, with this 
setup, the central FVEPs are inevitably contaminated 
by peripheral FVEPs induced from non-target LEDs, 
degrading detection performance. To tackle this 
problem, we designed the ON–OFF flickering patterns 
of LEDs such that ON and OFF durations were random 
and six flickering pattern sequences were mutually 
independent. Flash onsets in each sequence were used 
to segment EEG recordings into VEP epochs. Since 
VEPs were time-locked and phase-locked to visual 
stimuli[8], central VEP epochs were synchronised to 
the flash onsets of gazed LEDs and could be enhanced 
by simple averaging. In contrast, peripheral VEP 
epochs were not synchronised to the flash onsets of 
gazed LEDs and so were suppressed after averaging. 
By comparing the peak-to-valley amplitudes of 
averaged FVEP epochs induced by six LEDs, the gazed 
LED was identified as the one inducing the largest 
peak-to-valley amplitude. 
 
 
Subjects and EEG recording 
Four inexperienced normal subjects were 
recruited to participate in this study. An EEG channel 
placed at Oz based on an EEG 10–20 system [9] and 
one reference electrode at the right mastoid were 
recorded (MacLab, BioAmp, ADInstruments, Castle 
Hill, Australia). An additional bipolar electroculargraph 
(EOG) channel was placed on the upper site of the right 
eye and the lower site of the left eye to monitor eye 
movement, and threshold level was set at 100 mv to 
reject artifact contaminated epochs. All signals were 
recorded online with 1–50 Hz bandpass filtering to 
remove 60 Hz electricity noise and DC drifts, and then 
digitised (NI-PCI 6071E, National Instrument) and 
subjected to real-time processing using the LabView 
program (see Fig. 6). Subjects sat on comfortable 
armchairs in a dimly illuminated room and were 
instructed to complete a designed command sequence 
by gazing at target LEDs one by one. When a single 
input command was recognised by the system three 
consecutive times, the subject was prompted by voice 
feedback to proceed with the next command. 
 
Stimulus 
Six white LED devices, covered with thin white 
paper diffusers, were used to produce unpatterned light 
stimuli. The luminance of each diffused light source 
was calibrated using a luminance meter (LS-110; 
Konica Minolta Photo Imaging Inc., USA) and set at 
150 candelas (cd)=m2. The flickering sequences of the 
six LEDs were created by six mutually independent and 
random TTL sequences. Each sequence consisted of 
alternate ON–OFF states with duration in each state 
divided into two segments. The first segment was set at 
120 ms to prevent the overlap of one induced VEP with 
the subsequent one, while the second segment was 
uniformly distributed over the interval 0~400ms 
(mean=200 ms), i.e. each duration was random with a 
length between 120 and 520 ms (mean=320 ms) (see 
Fig. 7). 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Schematic diagram of proposed FVEP-actuated cursor 
system 
Fig. 7 Random ON or OFF duration of each TTL sequence 
for LED flickering control 
Fig. 8 Extraction of central FVEPs while subject gazed at 
‘right button’ LED 
segmented based on each flickering sequence are then 
stored in its own epoch register in physical memory. 
Figure 10 shows the procedure for detecting the 
gazed-channel. First, every N epochs (N=5 in our 
current setting) in each ith epoch register, i=1, …, 12, 
are averaged. The baseline (mean value from -100ms to 
0ms) is subtracted from the averaged epoch and 
lowpass filtering (<30 Hz) performed to yield a 
noise-suppressed FVEPi. Third, tweleve Ampp-v are 
computed and the channel inducing the largest Ampp-v 
is recognized as the gazed-channel. Finally, the 
virtual-key command defined by the identified channel 
is outputted via RS-232 and sent to the surveillance 
system. 
 
 
IV. Conclusion 
Brain-computer interface (BCI) is a technique 
that employs the classified brain signal as a triggering 
signal to control device or communicate with external 
environment. The present study reports two kinds of 
non-invasive BCI system, (1) Motor imagery 
electroencephalography (EEG), which embodies 
cortical potentials during mental simulation of left or 
right finger lifting tasks, can be used as neural input 
signals to activate brain computer interface (BCI). This 
work performs the extraction of two reliable neural 
features, termed contralateral and ipsilateral rebound 
maps, by removing artifacts from motor imagery EEG 
based on independent component analysis (ICA), and to 
employ four classifiers to investigate the efficacy of 
rebound maps. (2) An FVEP-actuated system for 
controlling cursor movements and button clicks on a 
screen menu. Various flickering items independently 
droved by random sequence were placed on the screen 
menu to help patients express their needs in daily life.  
FVEP-based system was easy to implement by 
using simple averaging technique, which requires less 
memory space and less computation load and permits 
simple processing architecture and wide 
communication bandwidth using temporal encoding 
techniques. In this integrated surveillance system, eight 
channels flickering items with functional icon were 
utilized as virtual buttons to control the actions of 
patient couch. 
 
 
 
 
References  
 
1. Clochon, P., J.M. Fontbonne, and P. 
Etevenon, A new method for quantifying 
EEG event-related desynchronization: 
amplitude envelope analysis. 
Electroencephalography & Clinical Neuro- 
physiology, 1996. 98: p. 126-129. 
2. Pfurtscheller, G., et al., Separability of EEG 
Signals Recorded During Right and Left 
Motor Imagery Using Adaptive 
Autoregressive Parameters. IEEE 
transactions on Rehabilitation Engineering, 
1998. 6(3): p. 316-325. 
3. Muller-Gerking, J., G. Pfurtscheller, and H. 
Fig. 9 Integration of FVEP-based BCI to surveillance system
Fig. 10 Signal processing flowchart of FVEP-based BCI
Fig. 11 Integrated FVEP-based BCI in surveillance system 
IEEE EMBC 2007 國際研討會心得報告 
生醫影像暨放射科學系 
吳育德 
 
在這次四天(八月二十三到二十六)的研討會當中，大會安排了六十八個
sessions。以下是這些 sessions 當中部分演講的心得報告: 
 
ICA for Ovary Tissue Classification of Perfusion Magnetic 
Resonance Images 
José J. Rieta*, Member, IEEE, David Moratal, Luis Martí-Bonmatí, 
Raquel Molina-Mínguez, Ana Vallés-Lluch and Roberto Sanz 
 
In this study, the authors described a method to segment ovary Magnetic Resonance 
(MR) images and distinguish healthy tissue from cysts. Through the application of 
independent component analysis (ICA) to a set of perfusion MR images it was 
possible to extract the output independent components and their corresponding 
signal-time curves. After examining and analyzing this result, a polynomial approach 
was computed to represent the main features of each curve, and automated particular 
selection of independent components was obtained by applying a Bayesian 
information criterion able to show the most relevant components. The results shown 
in this work permit to conclude that the independent components with a step-like 
signal-time curve allow to distinguish healthy tissue from cysts, thus, giving very 
promising results for the application of ICA to ovary tissue segmentation of perfusion 
MR images. 
 
Infrared Imager Requirements for Breast Cancer Detection 
Francisco Javier González, Member, IEEE 
 
Infrared imaging was introduced into medicine in the late 1950s, early studies 
suggested there were applications of the technology in areas as diverse as detection of 
breast cancer and malfunctions of the nervous system, however the early 
instrumentation was not sensitive enough to detect the subtle changes in temperature 
needed to accurately detect and monitor disease. In recent years the sensitivity of 
infrared instruments has greatly improved. In this paper, the authors solved the 
bioheat transfer equation for a simplified model of a female breast and a cancerous 
preliminary experimental setup included a simulated BCI control in which all parts 
reflected the computational and actuation process of an actual BCI, except the source, 
which was simulated using a “noisy” PC mouse. Results indicated that the vibrotactile 
channel can function as a valuable feedback modality with reliability comparable to 
the classical visual feedback. Advantages of using a vibrotactile feedback emerged 
when the visual channel was highly loaded by a complex task. 
 
Non-Invasive Brain-Computer Interface Systemto Operate Assistive 
Devices 
Febo Cincotti, Fabio Aloise, Simona Bufalari, Gerwin Schalk, Giuseppe Oriolo, Andrea Cherubini, 
Fabrizio Davide, Fabio Babiloni, Maria Grazia Marciani and Donatella Mattia 
 
In this pilot study, a system that allows disabled persons to improve or recover their 
mobility and communication within the surrounding environment was implemented 
and validated. The system is based on a software controller that offers to the user a 
communication interface that is matched with the individual’s residual motor abilities. 
Fourteen patients with severe motor disabilities due to progressive neurodegenerative 
disorders were trained to use the system prototype under a rehabilitation program. All 
users utilized regular assistive control options (e.g., microswitches or head trackers) 
while four patients learned to operate the system by means of a non-invasive 
EEG-based Brain-Computer Interface, based on the subjects’ voluntary modulations 
of EEG sensorimotor rhythms recorded on the scalp. 
 
A 3-class Asynchronous BCI Controlling A Simulated Mobile Robot 
Tao Geng, Matthew Dyson, Chun SL Tsui, and John Q. Gan, Senior Member, IEEE 
 
The authors design and present their online experiments of a 3-class asynchronous 
BCI controlling a simulated robot in an indoor environment. Two characteristics of 
their design have efficiently decreased the false positive rate during the NC (No 
Control) mode. First, three one-vs-rest LDA classifiers are combined to control the 
switching between NC and IC (In Control) mode. Second, the hierarchical structure of 
the controller allows the most reliable class (mental task) in a specific subject to play 
a dominant role in the robot control. A group of simple rules triggered by local sensor 
signals are designed for safety and obstacle avoidance in the NC mode. In online 
experiments, subjects successfully controlled the robot to circumnavigate obstacles 
and reach small targets in separate rooms. 
 
 
Francisco Sepulveda (Member), Matthew Dyson, John Q. Gan (Sen. Member), C.S.L. Tsui 
BCI Group, Dept. of Computer Science, University of Essex, United Kingdom 
 
Aiming at developing asynchronous BCIs, the authors tested 21 2-class combinations 
of 7 mental tasks to determine whether any pair of tasks may be more suitable. The 
tasks under consideration were: auditory recall, mental navigation, sensorimotor 
attention (left hand), sensorimotor attention (right hand), mental calculation, 
imaginary movement (left hand), imaginary movement (right hand). Sensorimotor 
attention is novel in this application domain. All possible pairs were tried in 5 subjects 
using data from 10s periods in which subjects were free to execute the required 
mental task at their own pace. Recordings were done whilst the subject controlled a 
robot navigation simulator on a computer monitor, with the robot direction being 
related to the mental task. Classification of the data was done using LDA. 
Class-separation was estimated using the Davies-Bouldin index. Best classification 
results were obtained when auditory recall was followed or preceded by mental 
calculation. Of the possible 21 task combinations, this task pair was in the top 5 
(performance-wise) for 4 of the 5 subjects. This was also the case when 
class-separation was used as a criterion. 
 
 
Application to robot control using brain function measurement by 
near-infrared spectroscopy 
Tadashi Tsubone, Takeo Muroga and Yasuhiro Wada 
 
In recent years, study of brain computer interface (BCI) is conducted actively and 
many researches of implementation using electro encephalic gram (EEG) are reported. 
On the other hand, some realization of BCI based on nearinfrared spectroscopy (NIRS) 
also had been reported. Since a measurement instrument for NIRS is comparatively 
small scale and it can perform noninvasive measurements, NIRS is expected as one of 
useful tool in order to realize versatile BCIs. In this paper, the estimation method is 
shown the possibility of applications to the ON/OFF control of BCI by NIRS. The 
authors measured regional cerebral blood flow during tapping movement of the right 
hand by NIRS and we propose a method to quantitatively estimate start and end 
timing of movement by using a neural network. 
 
A Study on the Frontal Cortex in Cognitive Tasks using 
Near-Infrared Spectroscopy 
Hajime Ogata, Toshiharu Mukai, Tohru Yagi, Member, IEEE 
is built from correlations between cortical areas at specific frequencies and is 
analyzed using graph theory. This allows us to describe the topological organization 
of the networks using quantitative measures. This method is applied to an auditive 
steady-state evoked potentials experiment (dichotic binaural listening) and compared 
to a more classical method based on spectral filtering. 
 
Time-Variant Spatial Filtering for Motor Imagery Classification 
Haihong Zhang, Chuanchu Wang, Cuntai Guan 
Institute for Infocomm Research, 21 Heng Mui Keng Terrace, Singapore 119613 
Email: {hhzhang, ccwang, ctguan}@i2r.a-star.edu.sg 
 
Effective spatial filtering plays a key role in motor imagery classification. This paper 
presents a novel approach to spatial filtering of EEG signal by modelling time-variant 
spatial patterns. This is in contrast to conventional Common Spatial Pattern which 
assumes static spatial patterns in a motor imagery trial. The authors define the model 
such that it accounts for relatively higher order dynamics in EEG. Furthermore, they 
formulate the training of the model as a dual optimization problem, and they derive an 
iterative optimization algorithm using quadratically constrained quadratic 
programming. Their experimental results on healthy subjects indicate that the 
proposed method is able to produce higher classification accuracy. 
 
A Tree-Structure Mutual Information-Based Feature Extraction and 
Its Application to EEG-Based Brain-Computer Interfacing 
Farid Oveisi and Abbas Erfanian 
 
This paper presents a novel algorithm for efficient feature extraction using mutual 
information (MI). In terms of mutual information, the optimal feature extraction is 
creating a new feature set from the data which jointly have largest dependency on the 
target class. However, it is not always easy to get an accurate estimation for 
high-dimensional MI. In this paper, the authors propose an efficient method for 
feature extraction using two-dimensional MI estimates. A new feature is created such 
that the MI between the new feature and the target class is maximized and the 
redundancy is minimized. The effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is evaluated by 
using the classification of EEG signals. The tasks to be discriminated are the 
imaginative hand movement and the resting state. The results demonstrate that the 
proposed mutual information based feature extraction (MIFX) algorithm performed 
well in several experiments on different subjects and can improve the classification 
accuracy of the EEG patterns. The results show that the classification accuracy 
 This paper introduces an electroencephalography (EEG)-based, real-time, cortical 
rhythmic activity monitoring system which can monitor spatiotemporal changes of 
cortical rhythmic activity on a subject’s cortical surface, with a high temporal 
resolution. In the monitoring system, a frequency domain inverse operator is 
preliminarily constructed, based on the subject’s anatomical information and sensor 
arrangement, and then spectral current power at each cortical vertex is calculated for 
the Fourier transforms of successive sections of continuous data, when a particular 
frequency band is given. The first pilot system was applied to two human experiments: 
(1)cortical alpha rhythm changes induced by opening and closing eyes and (2) cortical 
mu rhythm changes originated from arm movements, demonstrating the feasibility of 
the system. 
 
 
Estimation of force motor command for NIRS-based BMI 
Tadashi Tsubone, Kiyoka Tsutsui, and Yasuhiro Wada 
 
The authors consider a possibility for estimating EMG and force amplitude based on 
hemoglobin density. In experiments, subjects carried out isometric movements of 
three levels of force amplitude in order to measure EMG, force amplitude and 
hemoglobin density, and these relationships were investigated. They confirmed strong 
correlations between these measurements. From these relationships they propose two 
estimation models; one is to estimate the EMG from hemoglobin density and the other 
is to estimate the force amplitude from the estimated EMG. They can construct 
estimation models with high performance by minimizing AIC. Finally, they show an 
example of a BMI system applying estimation models to control an arm robot. 
 
 
Development of an Optical Brain-machine Interface 
Kei Utsugi, Akiko Obata, Hiroki Sato, Takusige Katsura, Kazuhiko Sagara, Atsushi Maki, 
Hideaki Koizumi 
 
The authors have developed a brain-machine interface (BMI) by using a method 
based on near-infrared spectroscopy. It functions as a practical, unrestrictive, 
non-invasive brain-switch without the need for large equipment. During an 
experiment with the prototype system, an operator manipulated external electrically 
controlled equipment while they measured the corresponding spatiotemporal changes 
in the hemoglobin concentration in the blood flowing through his or her pre-frontal 
