 2
中文摘要 
  在使用線切割矽晶圓的製程中，切割液通常使用高濃度的碳化矽粒子懸浮液，如何使
其穩定懸浮遂變成一重要的課題。此懸浮液由微米級的碳化矽粒子以及乙二醇所構成，其
中，碳化矽粒子受重力影響而易於沉降，但藉由添加界面活性劑正十二胺後，我們可以觀
察到粒子型的凝膠生成。根據流變性質的量測，我們發現儲存模數約為損失模數的三倍，
說明其擁有弱凝膠的特性，此外，屈服應力的量測更可以指出此結構乃是由粒子間的作用
力所形成。粒子型凝膠的強度深受界劑濃度的影響而可被分為兩個區域，在低濃度時，屈
服應力及凝膠高度都會隨著界劑濃度增加而上升，然而在界劑濃度超越某一特定值後，屈
服應力及凝膠高度則會開始下降。我們也嘗試提出形成凝膠的機制：因界劑尾鏈並不喜歡
存在極性的溶劑中，因此，界劑尾鏈傾向吸附於粒子表面而形成一類似單分子層，兩界劑
頭基間透過胺根形成氫鍵，使粒子間有作用力造成粒子型凝膠的生成，然而，添加其他界
劑因無法形成分子間氫鍵，所以無法觀察到凝膠的狀態，此外胺根間的作用經由添加酸類
也會破壞氫鍵生成，更證實我們的模型與理論。 
英文摘要 
  The concentrated suspension of silicon carbide (SiC) particles is often used as cutting fluids for 
Si-wafer wire-sawing. How to maintain suspended states is thus essential. The suspension of micron-sized 
SiC particles in ethylene glycol (EG) is liable to sedimentation although the particles do not aggregate. By 
addition of surfactant dodecylamine, however, we show that the suspension can form particle gel. 
According to rheological measurements, the ratio of storage to loss modulus is about 3, indicating a weak 
gel. Moreover, the observation of dynamic yield stress reveals the existence of the structure caused by the 
particle-particle attraction. The influence of surfactant concentration on the gel properties can be classified 
into two regimes. At low concentration, both gel height and yield stress grow with increasing surfactant 
concentration. However, as the concentration exceeds a certain value, they decline with increasing 
surfactant concentration. A gelling mechanism has been proposed and examined. Since the tails of alkyl 
amines are solvophobic, the surfactant molecules in EG prefer to stay on the particle with the tail orients 
toward the surface. The attraction between particles originates from hydrogen bonds formed between 
surfactant molecules adsorbed on different particles. Thus gelation fails when typical surfactants such as 
sodium dodecyl sulfate are employed. Acidification by HCl also hinder the gel formation by alkyl amine. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
mechanism. 
II. MATERIALS AND METHODS 
Materials 
  Micron-sized SiC particles with the mesh size 2, 4, 10, 20, 40, 100 μm were purchased from 
Hale Chain company in Taiwan. As shown in Fig. 1 for the SEM image of particles with mesh 
size 2 μm, the particle shape is very irregular. The nano-sized SiC particles with the size less than 
50 nm were bought from NaBond Technologies Co. (China). The polar solvent ethylene glycol 
(EG) was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. The surfactant used in experiments for particle gel 
formation is dodecylamine (C12NH2, DDA) (Acros). Since the dodecylamine molecule 
possesses a solvophobic tail and a solvophilic head, one can regard it as surfactant. Copper(II) 
chloride and hydrochloric acid were obtained from Merck and Showa, respectively. All materials 
were not further purified. 
Batch settling velocity measurement  
  The settling velocity of the suspension was determined by the downward-moving shock 
(discontinuity in density) in the graduated cylinder with the cross section area 0.98 cm2. For a 50 
wt% suspension, we mixed 5 g solvent EG and 5 g SiC particles uniformly by placing the sealed 
graduated cylinder on vortex mixer (TS-IT, Shin Kwang, Taiwan), which were oscillating at 3000 
RPM, for at least 10 minutes at room temperature. A clear initial interface located at about 6 cm 
heigh can be achieved by tilting the graduated cylinder on vortex mixer over 30◦ at about 1000 
RPM for 2 minutes. In batch sedimentation the interface positions were recorded as a function of 
time and then the settling velocity is decided by the slope. 
Particle gel preparation 
  Particle gels can only form as alkyl amine is added. First, we mixed the solvent ethylene glycol 
and the surfactant alkyl amine completely by ultrasonics (LC130H, Elma, Germany) for 30 
minutes. The surfactant concentration is below its solubility in EG and therefore phase separation 
was not observed. After mixing completely, SiC particles were added into the solution and the 
test tube was sealed. The vortex mixer was then used to ensure the suspension well mixed. The 
height of the sample was recorded after 12 hours and it exceeded the height associated with the 
sediment layer in the absence of alkyl amine. For all particle gels, the height is maintained the 
same after 72 hours. 
Rheological measurement 
  Dynamic viscoelastic properties (storage and loss moduli), shear viscosity, and yield stress of 
gel-like suspensions were measured by rheometer ( Physica MCR-501, Anton-Paar, Austria). 
Prallel-plate test fixture with 25mm diameter (PP-25) was used and the gap between parallel 
plates is 0.5mm. Before measurement of rheological properties, the sample is always pre-sheared 
1 min at shear rate (0.1 1/s). In order to measure shear-rate dependent viscosity and yield stress, 
one needs to scan shear stress at all shear rate region and the extrapolated zero-shear stress 
corresponds to the yield point, which is often used to give the information about the structural 
strength of a sample. 
UV-VIS spectroscopy 
  To determine the absorbance of copper ions and its complex with alkyl amine, a 
 6
terminal velocity associated with a single particleU0 = 6.38 μm/s, which is close to the estimation 
based on the Stokes’s law for an isolated sphere. Note that the shape of the SiC particle is 
irregular. Since a large aggregate would settle with a higher velocity, this consequence reveals 
that the SiC particles do not flocculate significantly in the absence of surfactant. Although the 
suspension is kinetically stable against aggregation, Brownian motion fails to sustain 
sedimentation of the concentrated dispersion with mesh size 10 μm. 
  What is the concentration profile of the dispersion of large, heavy particles even when the 
aggregates are absent? Assume that sedimentation equilibrium is reached for a dilute dispersion. 
The concentration distribution follows the barometric law, 
( ) ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛−=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ Δ−=
gB L
zc
Tk
mgzczc expexp 00                       (1)           
where c0 is the particle concentration at z = 0, Δm = π (ρs − ρf ) d3/6 the effective mass of the 
particle, and kBT the thermal motion. Evidently, the gravitational length Lg = kBT /Δmg 
decreases with increasing the particle mass. For typical suspensions of SiC with d = 10 μm, one 
has Lg ~0.4 nm at 25◦C. This small value reveals that it is impossible to obtain a dilute, 
homogenous dispersion simply by Brownian motion for micron-sized SiC particles. What is the 
characteristic height associated with concentrated dispersions sustained by thermal motions? At 
sedimentation equilibrium, the conservation for a one dimensional settling process takes the form 
( ) ( ) ( )[ ] ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
∂
∂
∂
∂=∂
∂−
z
Z
d
dK
z
DK
z
U φφφφφφφ 00                      (2) 
where K (φ) = U/U0, the sedimentation coefficient, D0 = kBT /6πηa, the Stokes-Einstein diffusion 
coefficient, and Z (φ), the compressibility factor. Note that η denotes the solvent viscosity and eq 
2 yields the barometric law as φ → 0. Integration of eq 2 gives the concentration profile, 
( )[ ] φφφφφ
φ
φ dZd
d
L
z L
Vg
∫−= 1                             (3) 
where φ(z = 0) = φ0 at the bottom of the container and φ(z = L) = φL. Adopting the Carnahan 
and Starling expression for the compressibility factor, Z (φ) = (1+φ + φ2 − φ3) /(1− φ)3, the 
characteristic height can be estimated, L ≈ 15Lg, if one chooses φ0 = 0.24 and φL = 10−4. Our 
analysis clearly indicates that even though the suspension is kinetically stable (no aggregate 
formation), the homogeneous dispersed phase of SiC with d = 10 μm in a solvent cannot exist 
since the gravitational force is strong compared to the thermal motion. 
  The absence of aggregation for segmenting particles indicates that the attraction between SiC 
particles is very weak and the particle gel cannot be formed. As a consequence, the homogeneous 
dispersion can only be achieved for nano-sized SiC particles since the Brownian movement is 
more rapid for smaller particles and the thermal motion is able to overcome gravity. On the basis 
of sedimentation equilibrium, the characteristic height can be estimated as L ≈ 20 cm for 20 wt% 
suspensions with d = 25 nm. A uniform dispersion of 20 wt% SiC particles with the size less than 
50 nm has been observed. After subject to the acceleration of 50 g for 30 minutes by 
ultracentrifugation, the SiC particles are still suspended without the presence of clarified 
supernatant. However, such a dispersion does not display particle gel characteristics according to 
 8
Figure 5(b) depicts the variation of the dynamic moduli with the oscillation frequency at γ = 
0.01% for surfactant C12NH2 at cs = 0.5 wt% under different particle concentrations. For 
concentrations from 16.7 to 61.5 wt%, the dynamic moduli are weakly dependent on frequency 
and 'G  (ω) > "G  (ω) in the entire range of ω examined. Since the moduli of typical gels are 
almost frequency independent, the weak ω-dependence in comparison with semidilute polymer 
solutions reflects the gel-like behavior of SiC suspensions. Under oscillatory strain, the phase 
angle of the response, tan δ = "G / 'G , represents a measure of the relative contribution of viscous 
components to the elastic properties of the materials. For typical strong gels, the materials are 
primarily elastic and thus tan δ < 0.1. The particle gel formed by SiC with mesh size 10 μm has 
tan δ≅ 0.39 at particle concentration 50 wt%, indicating that it is a weak gel. 
The rheological properties of the SiC particle gel are also investigated by steady and dynamic 
measurements, as demonstrated in Fig. 6 for C12NH2. Under steady shear flow, a strong shear 
thinning behavior is displayed for low·γand the steady shear viscosity η may be depicted by the 
power-law fluid, η ∼ ·γn with n ≅ −1.003 by the regression analysis. After passing a shear 
thickening regime, another shear thinning regime can be described by n≅ −0.536 for high·γ. In 
the low shear rate regime, the shear stress, τ = η·γ≅ ·γ−0.003, seems to be independent of ·γ. This 
consequence reveals the existence of the yield stress. As a result, the steady-state rheological 
behavior of the particle gel is somewhat similar to the Bingham plastic but flows like a 
power-law fluid, instead of a Newtonian fluid. Under oscillatory tests, the complex viscosity, 
defined as η∗ = ω/"' 22 GG + , can be obtained. Evidently, the complex viscosity is greater than 
that of the steady shear viscosity at the same value of angular frequency ω and shear rate ·γ. This 
result does not agree with the empirical Cox-Merz rule,18,19 which states that correspondence 
occurred between η plotted against ·γ and η∗ plotted against ω, i.e., η(·γ) = η∗(ω = ·γ). This 
correlation is hold for almost all polymer melts, and concentrated and semi-dilute solutions and 
implies that the structure that determines the mechanical properties of the material remains intact 
under steady flow. It is thus used to distinguish polymer melt and gel. Note that even as the flow 
curve is shifted along the shear rate axis by an empirical factor, the complex viscosity (η∗ ∼ ωn 
with n≅ −1.652 at low ω and n≅ −0.935 at high ω) in dynamic tests is still evidently different 
from the steady-state shear viscosity, particularly the yield stress behavior at low ·γ . The failure 
of the rule as illustrated in Fig. 6 reveals that the rheological behavior of our gel-like system 
originates from a deformation-susceptible structure. 
C. Effects of particle concentration and size 
The addition of DDA surfactant leads to the formation of SiC particle gel. The gel 
characteristics can be expressed through the swelling ratio of the sediment layer (α), the dynamic 
moduli ( 'G , "G ), and the phase angle of the response (tan δ). At a given surfactant concentration, 
e.g., 0.5 wt%, the properties of particle gels may vary with particle concentration and particle size. 
For particles with mesh size 10 μm, the swelling ratios are 1.93, 1.55, 1.40, and 1.30 for particle 
concentrations 16.7%, 37.5%, 50.0%, 61.5%, respectively. That is, as the particle concentration is 
increased, the gravity effect becomes more important and thus α declines. For the same particle 
concentrations, the phase angles are given by 0.14, 0.27, 0.39, and 0.49, as shown in Fig. 5(b). 
 10
size 10 μm is shown in the inset of Fig. 9 for surfactant C12NH2. After reaching the maximum 
value of hg, however, the gel height declines with increasing surfactant concentration. Therefore, 
based on the critical surfactant concentration cs∗ corresponding to the maximum gel height at a 
given particle concentration, the influence of surfactant concentration can be classified into two 
regimes. 
  Note that the surfactant-free suspension has an overall particle volume fraction of 0.237 for 
particle concentration 50 wt%. After sedimentation, the particle volume fraction of the sediment 
layer is about 0.52. When surfactant DDA is added, the gel height as well as the yield stress of 
the system increases for cs ≤ cs∗ (Fig. 9). According to the above experimental results, one can 
infer the following scenario associated with surfactant addition. The increment of surfactant 
concentration corresponds to the growth of the amount of surfactant adsorbed onto the SiC 
particle. This consequence strengthens the particle-particle attraction and thus friction between 
particles, which resists the rearrangement of particle structuredue to gravity, i.e., gravitational 
collapse, and shows the dynamic yield stress. Owing to the stronger attraction, a lower particle 
volume fraction is enough to support the particle weight and the gel height is increased. Figure 9 
also shows that the dynamic yield stress grows with increasing the surfactant concentration for cs 
≤ cs∗ . Note that in the absence of surfactant the yield stress exists but is very small, τY ∼ 0.02 Pa. 
This result reveals that more surfactant molecules in the vicinity of the particle can enhance the 
attraction between particles. In summary, both the gel height and dynamic yield stress are 
increased due to the surfactant-induced attraction in the regime of low surfactant concentration. 
  On the other hand, as the surfactant concentration exceeds the critical value (cs > cs∗), the 
interparticle attraction is actually weaken due to the existence of excess surfactant molecules. A 
possible explanation is as follow. At cs ≈ cs∗ for a given particle concentration, the adsorption of 
surfactant molecules onto the particle surface becomes saturated. The excess, added surfactant 
molecules are unable to adsorb onto the particle surface but tend to form micelles, which may 
interact with the adsorbed surfactant molecules via the formation of hydrogen bonds, as will be 
discussed later. Consequently, the attractive bonds between surfactant molecules adsorbed on 
different particle surfaces are reduced and the interparticle attraction is thus lessened. In this 
regime, as the surfactant concentration is increased, the particle-particle attraction is gradually 
weaken due to increasing adsorbed surfactant-micelle interactions and both hg and τY decline 
accordingly. 
E. Gelling mechanism 
  Networks can be formed by the aggregation of colloidal particles, which occurs when an 
attractive interaction is induced between them. Since SiC particle gels form only when alkyl 
amine is added, the attraction between SiC particles must originate from surfactant-particle and 
surfactant-surfactant interactions. The alkyl chain is not favored in the polar solvent ethylene 
glycol. Note that phase separation is observed for 0.5 wt% decane in EG. It can also be 
manifested by the solubility of CH3(CH2)nNH2 with different alkyl lengths in EG. While the 
solubility of the relatively short tail (n = 11) in EG is about 2 wt%, the solubility of the long tail 
surfactant (n = 13) is only 0.6 wt%. This fact indicates that the alkyl tail prefers to stay on the 
surface of SiC particles rather than dissolve in the polar solvent because SiC particles are 
 12
interparticle hydrogen bonds. On the other hand, further addition of copper ions lowers the 
viscosity, which is still greater than that without DDA at low shear rate. This result confirms that 
Cu2+ can be regarded as a weak linking agent between particles. 
IV. CONCLUSIONS 
  Owing to Earth gravity, it is difficult to form a particle gel by micron-sized particles. In general, 
near buoyancy-matched conditions or nano-sized particles are employed to help gelation. In this 
paper, we demonstrate that particle gels can be formed by concentrated suspensions of 
micron-sized SiC particles in ethylene glycol with the addition of dodecylamine C12NH2. Our 
analyses based on the settling velocities associated with batch sedimentation show that without 
alkyl amine the aggregation between SiC particles does not occur and Brownian motion is unable 
to disperse the suspension of micron-sized particles. As a result, micron-sized SiC particles in 
polar solvent EG always settle to the bottom of the container and the volume fraction of the 
sediment layer is about 0.52 for 50 wt%. 
  In the presence of alkyl amine, the height of the sediment layer associated with the 50 wt% SiC 
suspension swells significantly. In accordance with the rheological measurements, the suspension 
of micron-sized particles in the presence of surfactant can be identified as a weak gel, referred to 
as non-Brownian particle gel,21 because the storage modulus exceeds the loss modulus, i.e., 'G  
> "G . Moreover, the dynamic yield stress, which reveals the existence of the solid structure, is 
observed. The influence of surfactant concentration on the gel properties can be classified into 
two regimes. At low surfactant concentration, both the gel height and the dynamic yield stress 
grow with increasing concentration. This consequence indicates that the particle-particle 
attraction is enhanced by more surfactant adsorption onto the particle surface and it provides the 
friction against the downward gravitational force. However, as the concentration exceeds a 
certain value, the gel height and yield stress decline with increasing surfactant concentration. A 
possible explanation is the formation of micelles, which interact with adsorbed surfactant 
molecules and thus weaken the interparticle attraction. 
  A microscopic model for gelling mechanism of the weak gel has been proposed. Owing to 
limited solubility in polar solvent, the alkyl amine molecules prefer to adsorb on the SiC particle 
with the alkyl tail toward the surface. The hydrogen bonds then occur between primary amine of 
surfactant molecules located at different particles. As a result, strong attractions between SiC 
particles are formed. This model has been examined. SiC particle gel cannot be formed by the 
addition of surfactant with the same tail length but different head groups. Moreover, even in the 
presence of alkyl amine, acidification by HCl leads to the formation of primary ammonium cation 
instead of primary amine with a lone pair. Since hydrogen bonds are destroyed, micron-sized 
particle gels cannot be formed. Finally, the addition of copper ions results in the complexation, 
which hinders hydrogen formation and weakens the attractions between particles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 14
 
Figure 1. SEM image of SiC particles with mesh size 2 μm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 16
 
Figure 3. The settling velocity of the suspenion with mesh size 10 μm is plotted against the 
volume fraction. It can be well depicted by Richardson-Zaki correlation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18
 
Figure 5 (a). The dynamic moduli are plotted against the strain at frequency ω = 1 rad/sec for the 
addition of 0.5 wt% C12NH2 surfactant. The linear viscoelasticity strain region is observed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20
 
Figure 6. The comparison between shear-state shear viscosity and complex viscosity indicates the 
failure of the Cox-Merz rule. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22
 
Figure 8(a). The variation of the yield stress with the particle concentration for the micron-sized 
suspension with mesh size 10 μm and the nano-sized suspension with the size less than 50 nm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 24
 
DDA conc. (%)
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5
yi
el
d 
st
re
ss
 (P
a)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
DDA conc. (%)
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0
he
ig
ht
 (c
m
)
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
 
Figure 9. The influence of surfactant concentration associated with C12NH2 on the yield stress 
and the gel height (in the inset). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26
 
 
Figure 11. The effect of tuning interparticle hydrogen bonds by the addition of HCl or CuCl2 on 
the flow curves. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 28
 
本產學合作計畫研發成果及績效達成情形自評表  
成果項目 本產學合作計畫預估研究成果及績效指標 （作為本計畫後續管考之參據） 計畫達成情形 
技術移轉 預計技轉授權  1  項  完成技轉授權  0  項 
國內 預估  1  件 提出申請 1 件，獲得 0 件
專利 
國外 預估  1  件 提出申請 1 件，獲得 0 件
博士  2 人，畢業任職於業界  0 人 
博士  0 人，畢業任職於業
界  0  人 
碩士  2 人，畢業任職於業界  1 人 
碩士  2 人，畢業任職於業
界  1  人 人才培育 
其他  0 人，畢業任職於業界  0 人 
其他  0 人，畢業任職於業
界   0 人 
期刊論文  0  件 發表期刊論文  0  件 
研討會論文  0   件 發表研討會論文 0  件 
SCI論文  0  件 發表SCI論文  0  件 
專書  0  件 完成專書  0  件 
國內 
技術報告  0  件 完成技術報告  0  件 
期刊論文  0  件 發表期刊論文  0  件 
學術論文  0  件 發表學術論文  0  件 
研討會論文  2  件 發表研討會論文 2  件 
SCI/ SSCI論文  1  件 發表SCI/ SSCI論文  1  件 
專書  0  件 完成專書  0  件 
論文著作 
國外 
技術報告  0  件 完成技術報告  0  件 
其他協助產業發
展之具體績效 新公司或衍生公司   0   家 
設立新公司或衍生公司 (名
稱)：           
其他  
註：其他實際完成之研究成果及績效請於「其他」欄內補充填寫。 
 
表C012A-4                                     
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：曹恒光 計畫編號：98-2622-E-008-019-CC3 
計畫名稱：鋼線切割矽晶圓的切削液(膠體穩定性) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
