奈米粒子在氣/液界面單分子膜行為及其 LB 膜組裝的研究(2/3) 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-006 -324  
執行期間：95 年8 月1 日至96 年7 月31 日 
計畫主持人：李玉郎教授 成功大學化工系 
 
中文摘要 
本專題第二年的工作是利用化學與物理改質法對硫化鎘(CdS)量子點粒子
表面作疏水化的處理，並探討不同的表面改質法對 CdS 粒子膜在氣/液界面的影
響。本專題實驗分別以十二碳硫醇(dodecanthiol)與二羧酸硫醇(mercaptosuccinic 
acid，MSA)對 CdS 量子點進行表面改質，使其表面分別帶有疏水性碳鏈(C12-CdS)
及羧酸官能基(MSA-CdS)。實驗結果顯示，由於 C12-CdS 疏水特性，CdS 量子點
可分散於氯仿且可穩定存在於氣/液界面上，然而卻因為量子點與水分子間的作
用力較低而導致量子點單層膜易聚集形成 3D 結構及部分空缺產生。而對於
MSA-CdS 量子點而言，其表面則藉由羧酸官能基與陽離子性界面活性劑
(cetyltrimethylammonium bromide，CTAB) 分子產生物理性吸附來形成疏水特
性。除此之外，CdS 表面的 MSA 扮演提昇 CTAB 吸附量與改善量子點在氣/液界
面上穩定性的重要角色，主要是因為 CTAB 在 MSA-CdS 是可逆吸附，因此量子
點在氣/液界面上時，其接觸到水的 CTAB 會產生解離而形成親水區域，而使 CdS
能穩定存在於氣/液界面。所以 CTAB-MSA-CdS 量子點在氣/液界面上呈現兩性
(amphiphilic)分子特性。且相對於 C12-CdS，CTAB-MSA-CdS 能進行逐層組裝形
成 2D 多層粒子膜的結構。本研究亦利用表面壓對分子佔據面積(π-A)等溫線、鬆
弛、遲滯曲線、即時性(in-situ)布魯斯特角顯微鏡 (Brewster angle microscopy，
BAM)及原子力顯微鏡(AFM)影像觀測與 UV 吸收光譜來探討兩種不同改質的量
子點在氣液界面上的行為差異與其對 LB 膜特性的影響。 
在第二年的工作中已成功利用結合物理與化學改質來製備量子點薄膜。在
第三年的工作中預計將此技術應用在奈米碳管改質，並製作具高方向性的二維組
裝，並應用於超疏水面或光電元件上。 
 
關鍵詞：Langmuir 單分子層，粒子膜，表面改質，布魯斯特角顯微鏡，原子力
顯微鏡 
regarding the particulate monolayer of semiconductor QDs have
been done.24,25,27-29
For particles chemically modified by alkyl chains, the
modifiers distribute uniformly on the particles’ surface. There-
fore, the particles do not develop the amphiphilic characteristics
of surfactant molecules. When such particles are spread at the
air/water interface, the weak particle-water interaction results
in the formation of void defects or 3D aggregates in the
monoalyer.42-44 Various approaches have been adopted to
enhance the spreading of particles at the air/water interface, of
which the physical modification of particle surface may be the
most efficient method.43-46 The effects of chemical and physical
modifications of the particle surface on the monolayer behavior
of silica particles and the related structure of the particulate films
were studied in our previous research.43 In this work, this
strategy is utilized to the organization of CdS QDs. Mercapto-
succinic acid (MSA) is first capped on the CdS surface to render
a surface with carboxylic acid groups. Such modification was
found to enhance the adsorption of cationic surfactant on the
CdS surface, improving the stability and film quality of the CdS
monolayer. This strategy is schematically illustrated in Figure
1. The results of this approach are also compared with those
obtained from dodecanethiol-capped CdS.
Experimental Section
Materials. Cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB, >96%,
Fluka), cadmium nitrate (Cd(NO3)2, >99%, Fluka), sodium
sulfide (Na2S, >98%, Aldrich), mercaptosuccinic acid
(HOOCCH2CH(SH)COOH, MSA, >97%, Aldrich), n-hexane
(>99%, Riedel-deHaen), ethanol (>99%, Merck), butanol
(>98%, Riedel-deHaen), dodecanethiol (>98%, Acros), and
chloroform (>99.8%, Mallinckrodt chemicals) were used as
received. Doubly distilled water (resistivity g18.2 M¿ cm)
purified with Milli-Q apparatus supplied by Millipore was used
in all the experiments of this study.
Synthesis of CdS Particles. CdS QDs were prepared using
the water-in-oil reverse micelle process similar to that reported
by Agostiano et al.47 A quaternary water-in-oil microemulsion,
CTAB/n-butanol/n-hexane/water, containing cadmium or sulfide
was prepared first by controlling the molar ratio of water to
CTAB (W0), butanol to CTAB (P0), and the surfactant concen-
tration of CTAB. The values of W0 and P0 were both controlled
at 15, and a CTAB concentration of 0.1 M was used in this
work. Colloidal CdS QDs were prepared by rapidly mixing equal
volumes of two micellar solutions containing respectively 0.5
M Cd(NO3)2 and 0.5 M Na2S, introduced in the microemulsions
as aqueous solutions. CdS QDs formed immediately after mixing
the micellar solutions, and the following surface modification
procedure was carried out by adding dedecanethiol or MSA
directly into the micellar solution. The surface reaction occurred
during 24 h of continuous stirring. After the synthesis and
modification steps, the microemulsion was evaporated at 50 °C
under vacuum to remove hexane. The residue (containing CdS,
butanol, water, surfactants) was then dissolved in ethanol. This
ethanol solution was turbid, and its centrifugation allowed
separation of a pale yellow powder as a pellet. The collected
crystallites were washed five times with an ethanol/water
mixture (8/2 by volume) to remove, as completely as possible,
the dissolve salts and water-soluble compounds. The powder
was then dried under an N2 stream and stored in the dark. The
dodecanethiol-capped CdS was redispersed in chloroform, and
the MSA-capped CdS was redispersed in chloroform containing
2000 ppm of CTAB.
Monolayer Preparation. The modified CdS QDs were
redispersed in chloroform to prepare a stock solution with a
concentration of ca. 2-4 mg/mL. The exact content of CdS
QDs in the solution was determined by TGA (Thermo Gravi-
metric Analyzer).
The monolayer experiments were performed in a computer-
controlled film-balance apparatus (KSV minitrough) constructed
by KSV Instruments Ltd., Finland. The Teflon trough has a
working area of 32  7.5cm2 and was placed on a vibration
isolation table and enclosed in an environmental chamber. The
temperature of the subphase was controlled at 25 °C by an
external circulator, and the film pressure was measured by using
the Wilhelmy plate arrangement attached to a microbalance. A
stock solution of CdS QDs (ca. 100 íL) was spread on the
subphase using a microsyringe. After allowance of 20 min for
solvent evaporation, the monolayer at the air/water interface
was compressed at a rate of 5 mm/min. A surface pressure-
area (ð-A) isotherm was obtained by continuous compression
of the monolayer by two moving barriers.
Optical glasses were used as the substrates for deposition of
the particulate monolayer. The glass plate was carefully cleaned
and had a measured contact angle of 0° with water. A
hydrophobic glass slide was prepared by dipping the cleaned
glass plates in chloroform solution containing 1 wt % dedecyl-
trichlorosilane. The advancing contact angle of water on the
hydrophobic glass plate was about 108°. In this work, LB
deposition (vertical deposition method) cannot be satisfactorily
used to transfer the C12-CdS monolayer. Therefore, to examine
the morphology of a single layer of particulate film, all the
monolayers were transferred by reducing the liquid level of the
subphase as described in a previous work.43 Using this
technique, the arrangement of QDs at the air/water interface
appears to be better preserved on the solid substrate. A glass
plate was first positioned beneath the monolayer with an incline
angle of 10° to the horizontal plane. After compression of the
monolayer to a selected surface pressure (15 mN/m), the
subphase liquid was withdrawn smoothly. The level of the
monolayer surface decreases gradually, and thus the monolayer
touches the substrate and deposits on it gradually. To prepare
multilayer particulate film, the LB deposition was employed at
a transfer rate of 3 mm/min.
Instrumentation and Characterization. The particulate
monolayer at the air/water interface was observed in-situ using
a Brewster angle microscope (BAM) designed by Nanofilm
Figure 1. Schematic illustration showing the adsorption of CTAB on
a MSA-capped CdS QD and its behavior when the QD was positioned
at the air/water interface.
CdS Quantum Dots J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 110, No. 19, 2006 9557
In addition, the disappearance of the peak at 2548 cm-1 (S-H
stretching) in the spectrum of MSA-CdS gives strong evidence
that MSA is anchored on the CdS QDs.
Isotherm Characteristics of CdS Particulate Monolayers.
Figure 5 shows the pressure-area (ð-A) isotherms of the CdS
QDs at the air/water interface. For the C12-CdS QDs, the
isotherm has a lift-off area of ca. 990 cm2/mg and exhibits a
high compressible characteristic as verified by the slow increase
of surface pressure as the area is decreased. No apparent phase
transition or collapse point was observed in the isotherm. For
the QDs modified by physical adsorption of CTAB (CTAB-
MSA-CdS), the isotherm has a smaller lift-off area (ca. 630
cm2/mg) and exhibits a less compressible property when
compared with that of the C12-CdS. It should be noted that no
significant elevation of surface pressure can be detected under
compression when only CTAB or MSA-CdS was spread on the
subphase. Therefore, the elevation of surface pressure can be
attributed to the interaction of CTAB and MSA-CdS. The
collapse point of the monolayer occurs at a surface pressure of
ca. 45 mN/m. The limiting areas estimated by extrapolating the
constant-slope region of the isotherms to zero surface pressure
are about 722 cm2/mg (39.2 nm2/particle) for C12-CdS and 537
cm2/mg (29.2 nm2/particle) for CTAB-MSA-CdS. The theoreti-
cal area calculated for nanoparticles of 6 nm in diameter
configured in a hexagonal closely packed arrangement is 31.2
nm2/particle. According to the AFM results that will be shown
later, the higher value of C12-CdS is caused by the formation
of particle-free pores due to the poor spreading of C12-CdS on
the subphase. But for the CTAB-MSA-CdS, the smaller area
compared to the theoretical value is attributable to the loss of
nanoparticles into subphase due to the poor stability of this
monolayer, a situation which will be discussed later. Further-
more, the size distribution of the QDs may also cause deviation
between the estimated and theoretical areas.
The isotherms obtained here are consistent with a previous
result which was performed with silica particles of 500 nm in
diameter.43 The compressible characteristic of chemically modi-
fied particles has been ascribed to the lack of lateral mobility
of particles due to poor a particle-water interaction. However,
the reversible adsorption of CTAB on MSA-CdS can yield a
hydrophilic region on the QDs when they are positioned on the
aqueous phases (as shown in Figure 1). The higher particle-
water interaction results in a higher spreading ability of the
particles, which also causes the isotherm to be less compressible.
The surface morphology of single layer particulate films
transferred at ð ) 15 mN/m onto mica was analyzed by AFM
and is shown in Figure 6. For the chemically modified CdS
(C12-CdS) shown in Figure 6a, the QDs are presented as
separated domains of several hundreds nanometers scale.
Apparently, the cohesive interaction between QDs is higher than
the spreading force exerted by the subphase; thus, the QDs tend
to aggregate rather than spread homogeneously. The aggregative
domains were found to form in the spreading stage as confirmed
by BAM, and the compression causes a shrinkage of the distance
between domains but increases their coverage ratio. However,
the QD free regions cannot be eliminated completely by
decreasing the surface area, and voids can still be observed on
films transferred at pressures exceeding 30 mN/m. From a finer
scan of the AFM image (Figure 6b), the particulate domains
are found to be organizing by irregular packing of CdS QDs.
The depth profile analysis shown below Figure 6b indicates that
the heights of the domains are not uniform (ranging from 5 to
15 nm) and go far beyond the value of the QD size (ca. 5-6
nm). This result implies that the C12-CdS QDs are organized as
three-dimensional (3D) aggregates rather than as 2D domains.
The morphological characteristic of the particulate film
prepared with CTAB-MSA-CdS QDs has results (shown in
Figure 6c,d) different from those of the films prepared with C12-
CdS. The QDs distribute homogeneously without the formation
of aggregative domains and pores. Although few aggregations
have been observed, they are believed to be the defects caused
from the nonperfect dispersion of the QDs in the spreading
solvent. The high-resolution scan and related depth profile
(Figure 6d) indicate that the film has a thickness approximately
equal to the diameter of QDs, which also implies that CdS QDs
are organized as a 2D monolayer. The improvement in the 2D
assembly of the QDs was mainly ascribed to the amphiphilic
property of the QDs resulting from the physical modification
of the particle surface.
According to the morphological characteristics and the ð-A
isotherms of CdS QDs presented here, as well as the results of
SiO2 particles reported in a previous study,43 a large lift-off area
and highly compressible isotherm are supposed to be a result
of poor lateral mobility of particles, a condition which yields a
network structure of particulate film. Therefore, the compressible
isotherm of a particulate monolayer may not have properties
similar to the monolayer of amphiphilic molecules. In the present
case, the appearance of a highly compressible isotherm of a
particulate monolayer may suggest the formation of a hetero-
geneous structure containing particle free pores, with the
“compressibility” coming from the shrinkable pores between
particulate domains.
Figure 4. FT-IR spectra of bare CdS (a), C12-CdS (b), MSA-CdS (c),
and pure MSA (d).
Figure 5. Pressure-area (ð-A) isotherms of C12-CdS and CTAB-
MSA-CdS QDs monolayers.
CdS Quantum Dots J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 110, No. 19, 2006 9559
CdS QDs. However, it is unusual to find that the hysteresis
loop shifts to the right cycle by cycle because it implies a gain
of pressure (i.e. the gain of free particles) after each compres-
sion-expansion cycle. This phenomenon was studied using an
AFM image of particulate film transferred after 3 hysteresis
cycles. The results shown in Figure 9 demonstrate that the film
morphologies are essentially similar before and after the
hysteresis process, but the domain height decreases after the
hysteresis experiment. The root-mean-square (rms) roughness
measured from Figures 6a and 9a are 4.7 and 2.6 nm,
respectively, indicating that the film was flattened due to the
push and pull effects of the hysteresis process. This result is
consistent with the right shift of the hysteresis loops shown in
Figure 8a and is probably a result of the poor spreading of CdS
QDs in the initial spreading period.
The monolayer of CTAB-MSA-CdS exhibits a hysteresis
behavior similar to that of the C12-CdS monolayer in each
compression-expansion cycle (Figure 8b). A slight hysteresis
behavior is also observed in the left shift of the expansion curve.
However, the nearly identical loops for the three hysteresis
cycles imply that the QDs are able to respread to the initial
state in the beginning of the succeeding compression. Therefore,
this slight hysteresis can be attributed to a slow expansion rate
of the QDs.
BAM Images of CdS Particulate Monolayers. The behav-
iors of the two CdS QDs on the water surface were also studied
using BAM phase images. For the C12-CdS monolayer (Figure
10), two distinct phases were observed in the initial compression
stage. They are considered to be part of the coexistence state
of liquid and gas phases, similar to that of molecular compounds.
The liquid phase exhibits a cloudy morphology consisting of
voids distributed among a denser phase. Such phase seems to
have a network structure organized by the contact of the
particulate domains. However, due to the poor lateral mobility
of C12-CdS QDs, the domains are rigid and resist deformation.
Figure 7. Area relaxation of C12-CdS and CTAB-MSA-CdS particulate
monolayers performed at surface pressure of 20 mN/m.
Figure 8. Hysteresis curves show the compression/reexpansion
behavior of particulate monolayers of C12-CdS (a) and CTAB-MSA-
CdS (b).
Figure 9. AFM images of one layer C12-CdS transferred after
experience three hysteresis cycles at the air/water interface.
CdS Quantum Dots J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 110, No. 19, 2006 9561
between particles is not sufficient to pull the particles into the
aqueous subphase. Actually, it is quite possible that the adsorbed
CTAB will desorb once the QDs are pulled down into the
subphase. That is why a poor transfer ratio was obtained in the
downward stroke. Additionally, the desorption effect also gives
a hydrophilic surface to the particle, allowing the succeeding
upward stroke to be performed successfully.
The CTAB-MSA-CdS particulate films were then analyzed
via a UV-vis spectrometer. The absorption spectra taken on
films of various deposition layers are shown in Figure 12. The
absorption edge of these spectra is ca. 489 nm, corresponding
to an average diameter of 5.2 nm, according to Henglein’s
empirical formula.48 The peak at 420 nm is associated with the
first excitonic transition of CdS QDs, and its appearance also
implies a narrow particle size distribution of the particulate
system. The absorption intensity at 420 nm was found to
increase linearly with number of CdS layers (insert of Figure
12), demonstrating a linear increase of CdS amount with
succeeding deposition strokes. This result also implies the high
performance of the LB technique in the layer-by-layer control
of the particulate deposition through the employment of the
present method.
In the literature, trioctylphosphine oxide (TOPO) and al-
kanelthiols are commonly used as capping agents to manipulate
the LB films of semiconductor QDs.29,50-52 The TOPO-capped
CdSe nanoparticles were reported to be able to organize as a
hexagonal packed structure due to the higher particle-particle
interaction of the chemically modified particles.50,51 However,
morphological heterogeneity or multilayer aggregation is also
reported for TOPO-capped CdS29 and CdSe monolayers,51 a fact
partially ascribed to the lack of amphiphilic property of the QDs.
In this work, the 3D aggregates of C12-CdS QDs are more
significant than the TOPO-capped CdSe and CdS reported in
the literature.29,51 This phenomenon can be attributed to the
interdigitation of dodecyl chains between the surfaces of C12-
CdS QDs because 3D aggregates of C18-CdSe were reported to
be facilitated through interdigitation of long alkyl chains.51
Compared to the results of LB manipulation performed through
the chemical modification of QDs, the strategy of physical
modification presented here offers a more efficient method to
assemble nanoparticulate film with characteristics of homogene-
ity, 2D arrangement, and layer-by-layer control.
Conclusion
CdS QDs were modified either by chemical capping of
dodecanethiol (C12-CdS) or by the physical adsorption of CTAB
Figure 11. BAM images of CTAB-MSA-CdS particulate monolayer at the air/water interface acquired along the compression isotherm. The
images correspond to the states of (a) ð ) 0.3 mN/m, (b) ð ) 12.5 mN/m, (c) ð ) 21 mN/m, and (d) ð ) 32 mN/m. The length bar corresponds
to 50 ím in length.
Figure 12. UV-vis spectra of CTAB-MSA-CdS LB films with various
deposition layers. The insert plots the absorption intensity at 420 nm
vs number of deposition layer.
CdS Quantum Dots J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 110, No. 19, 2006 9563
出席國際會議心得報告 
會議名稱 : 第一屆歐洲化學會議(1st Eruopean Chemistry Congress) 
會議地點 : 布達佩斯．匈牙利 
時間 : 95 年 8 月 27 日至 8 月 31 日 
出席人 : 李玉郎 成功大學化工系 
     
在本次的”第一屆歐洲化學會議”中，本人投稿二篇論文，第一篇題目
為”Adsorption Behavior of Glucose Oxidase onto DPPA Monolayer and the Relevant 
characteristics of Mixed Monolayer at Air-Liquid Interface＂。第二篇是與聯合大學
化材系徐文平教授合作的成果，題目為”Surface Characteristics and Relaxation 
Phenomena of Stereoregular PMMA and its Blends at the Air/Water Interface” 
    本次行程於 8 月 26 日由台南出發，於高雄小港機場搭乘華航班機至香港，
再轉搭德航班機，經慕尼黑轉機至布達佩斯。抵達時間約是當地時間 8 月 27 日
中午。隨後即參加此次會議的開幕式 (27 日下午 18:00)及歡迎酒會。 
    此會議是個相當大型的會議，參加的人數約有 3000 多人，共分為 18 個主題
在四天內進行。其中五個 Plenary Lecture 是邀請諾貝爾獎得主來講授，此外，更
有數十個 Invited Lecture 是邀請不同領域的大師來講授。因此，此會議可謂是歐
洲化學會的盛會。主辦單位為因應眾多的與會人士，特別搭建一個可以容納上千
人的講堂，作為 Plenary Lecture 的場地。本人亦參加與本人研究領域較為接近的
二場 Plenary Lecture，分別是法國的 Jean-Marie Lehn 及瑞士的 Kurt Wuthrich 二
位諾貝爾獎得主所講授。 
    本人的論文被安排在 8 月 29 日 Am9:00 ~ Pm5:00 以海報方式發表。由於投
稿的論文眾多，本人參加的 Section (Structure and Function of Biomolecules)只選
擇十篇論文作為口頭發表。雖然如此，在 Poster 發表中，亦能與不少外國學者及
參與人士交流，這是此行的最大收穫。 
    會議在 8 月 31 日結束，本人於 9 月 1 日離開布達佩斯，順道至附近的維也
納及布拉格做私人的旅遊，於 9 月 4 日啟程返國，9 月 5 日返回台灣。 
