2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
旋轉多層空心圓柱之熱彈力瞬間反應問題
計畫編號：NSC 94-2212-E-005-005
主持人：簡國璋 國立中興大學應用數學系
一、中文摘要
本文主要探討多層旋轉空心圓柱受到內壓力以
及外冷卻效應的熱彈性問題，其二維軸對稱虛
靜偶合的熱彈性暫態反應。利用混合拉式轉換
以及有限差分法來處理此類問題。首先，將利
用有限差分法來處理推導完成的控制微分方程
式以及邊界條件；然後，經過離散化之後的方
程式，使用拉式轉換來解決時間項的問題。再
利用矩陣相似轉換以及逆拉式轉換來獲得暫態
以及穩態下的數值解
關鍵詞：旋轉空心圓柱。有限差分法。拉式轉
換。數值解
Abstract
The problem of the two-dimensional axi-
symmetric coupled thermoelastic transient
response for a rotating annular multilayered
cylinder subjected to internal pressure in the inner
surface and external cooling process in the outer
surface is presented. The analysis is using a hybrid
Laplace transformation and finite difference
method. The present method divides the governing
differential equations and boundary conditions
into the finite difference method and then removes
the time dependences from the discretized
equations with the Laplace transform. The
solutions were obtained by using the matrix
similarity transformation and inverse Laplace
transform. Solutions for the temperature,
displacement and thermal stress distributions in
both transient and steady state are obtained.
Keywords: rotating annular cylinder, finite
difference method, Laplace transformation,
numerical sulotion.
二、緣由與目的
The analysis of the thermal response of
circular cylindrical structures has been the subject
of significant research interest in recent years.
Kardomateas (1989) considered an orthotropic,
hollow circular cylinder subjected to an imposed
constant temperature on the one surface and heat
convection into a medium of a different constant
temperature at the other surface. The transient
thermal stresses of a non-homogenous infinite
circular cylinder subjected to certain boundary
conditions were considered by Ahmed and Zeiden
(2002). The system of fundamental equations is
solved by a finite difference method and the
numerical solutions are carried out for the
temperature, displacements and stresses. In this
paper, the two-dimensional quasi-static coupled
thermoelastic problems of a finitely long annular
multilayered cylinder composed of different
multilayered materials is studies. The medium is
characterized by pressure at the inner layer,
decreasing temperature in the outer layer, rotation
about the normal direction at constant angular
velocity, an absence of body forces and internal
heat generation. Derivatives are approximated by
central differences resulting in an algebraic
representation of the partial differential equation.
By taking the Laplace transform with respect to
time, the general solutions in the transform
domain are first obtained. The final solutions in
the real domain can be obtained by inverting the
Laplace transform.
Formulation
If the body forces are absent, the equation of
equilibrium for a rotating composite cylinder
along the radial and *z direction, respectively,
can be written as
