新式整合 NDR 元件與 RITD 元件之新型 SRAM 單元之製程與設計探討(I) 
“The research on New Integration of NDR and RITD for New Structure SRAM” 
計畫編號： NSC96－2221－E－110－096－ 
執行期間：96年 8月 1日 至 97年 7月 31日 
主持人：林吉聰  國立中山大學電機系 電機系 副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
我 們 引 NDR (negative differential 
resistance ， 負微分電阻特性) 所衍生出的 
RITD(resonant inter-band tunneling 
diode，共振帶間穿邃二極體)具有許多優良的
電氣特性，例如經由共振穿隧結構之理論可證
實於 77K 溫度下，一個共振穿隧二極體，其峰
值電流和谷底電流之比值可達 51:1，而其震盪
頻率更可超過 700GHz，若將此操作特性應用於
高速元件及高頻震盪器上，則可具有： 
(1)減少元件數目，僅數個元件就能達到
數百個傳統元件之功能。 
(2)使用於高通元件中，減少一般 RC 元件
之時間延遲。 
(3)具多值輸出，而非一般之二極體只有 0 
或 1 之輸出。 
本計畫即為利用此一特性，並將 RITD 的
元件設計引入標準的 CMOS 製程，以期達到高
度的製程整合特性，此一新型 SRAM 的晶胞設
計，電路設計的整合型計畫於學術研究上，能
使以 NDR 為基礎發展的 RITD 現象得到良好研
究，並且在實際製作及理論基礎上得到相互驗
證，使國內在 NDR 的研究上能有重大進展。 
本計畫為一新式整合 NDR 與 RITD 製程之
新型 SRAM 的晶胞設計，及電路設計的計畫，
預期完成之工作項目可分為三階段以三年逐
年完成： 
a.新式 SRAM 記憶單胞的製作，將新式核
心記憶單胞於先進半導體製程環境中完成，並
驗證其製程的同步性及整合性，及物理造型及
特徵，是否應對模擬結果。 
b.新式 SRAM 記憶單胞的量測，包含一核
心記憶單胞及其周遭由三個 NMOS 電晶體所構
成的切換及驅動電路，藉單一 SRAM 記憶單胞
的量測，瞭解此一新式設計的電性特性，包含
功率消牦，切換速度，雜散電容電感電阻效應
及驗證電路原理是否正確。 
c.若於 a 及 b 步驟完成並認為可以符合
期待時，則進行記憶陣列的設計，包涵周邊電
路元件（行列解碼器，感測電路，及管線設
計），並將其完成（tape out）並實際封測以
獲得在實際記憶體陣列下的特性，包括晶胞間
干擾及效能評估。 
英文摘要 
The conventional SRAM is generously used 
in high speed application continuously. Such 
SRAM would require six transistors to complete 
a pair of inverters or latch function to hold a 
couple of bits, one is zero, and the other would 
be one in respect to the voltage level. A device 
comprised of six transistors will occupy more 
space, and cost boosts. Still, it will consume a 
large mount of power. For the high speed 
ambition, this architecture is necessary, but for 
the some said issues above, hence many 
researchers spare no effort to create a new circuit 
to replace it. Many new models for 
accomplishing the SRAM function are thrown 
but no feasible way being found so far. Decades, 
some profound discoveries about RITD collects 
many persons’ attention, the extraordinary V 
versus I relationship noted by NDR phenomenon 
  
三、 研究方法及成果 
Multi-bits memory cell and circuit 
architecture 
 
 
 
  
     Fig. 1 shows the SPICE code of MOSs 
simulated RITD circuit and its I-V characteristic. 
We will apply this model to verify the following 
design. Fig. 2 gives different characteristic about 
simple RITD multi-layers in our real work. Here 
its geometric parameters are modified in order to 
find the best PCD (peak current density) and 
PVCR (peak valley current ratio). Fig. 3 
illustrates a serial connected RITD device and 
MOS. When MOS is treated as a load, an ideal 
MOS can be regarded as an infinite resistor in 
the saturated region. When a stimulant current 
source is added to the connected node and 
setting the source as polarized square waveform, 
we can observe a working point response as a 
function of the additional stimulant source due to 
the working point shift. Fig. 4 is a serial 
connected RITD pairs in which the two RITDs 
are identical. It can produce an equal working 
point pair (indicated to current value).   Fig. 5 
shows the cross-section view of one bit MOS 
integrated RITD as memory device and its 
equivalent electric model. Its matched peripheral 
circuit and working function/theory is also 
described in Fig. 6. The layout layer and 
schematic illustration of it is also included. In 
addition, Table. 1 gives the operation procedure.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. When adjusting diameter of RITD layer 
area, the response will change. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)               (b) 
Fig. 3. (a) is the schematic diagram, inside the 
diode symbol represents a sub-circuit as shown 
in Fig. 1 and (b) is superimposed characteristic 
to locate the working point. 
 
 
 
      
      
  
  
  
  
                          
(a)                    (b)  
Fig. 4. (a) is the schematic diagram, and its used 
MOSs are not totally identical and (b) is 
superimposed characteristic to locate the 
working point. 
 
 
(a)                       (b) 
Fig. 1. (a) The SPICE code of MOSs simulated 
RITD circuit and (b) its I-V characteristic. 
 
no tedious manufacture will be added and the 
multi-RITDs serially connected (here is 6 in total) 
will generate four stable levels as Fig. 8 shown.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
Fig. 7 (a) is the serially connected RITDs 
characteristic. When four identical RITDS are 
serially connected, the middle point can be held 
in three stable levels as (b) shown. The 
superimposed characteristic is used to locate the 
working point. 
 
Multi-level current regulator and source 
 
The ISE TCAD simulation is carried out for 
evaluating different electric characteristics of 
NMOS (see Fig. 9), by the mean of MOS which 
integrated NDR phenomenon. Fig. 3(a), shows 
the output ID-VDS characteristics of an NMOS 
which fabricated on SOI wafer and it can 
generate two stable working points. From prior 
study [8], [9] it can be estimated that the 
10x10μm2 patterned growth RITD has the I-V 
characteristics as shown in Fig. 2. In Fig. 2, it 
gets oscillating between 0.25v to 0.35v causing 
the probe like an inductor. We can also get two 
points through the output of the top NMOS as a 
loader and the RITD as a driver. These two 
points contain a high level and a low level state, 
and then by using that we can control the other 
NMOS’s switch. The previous documents have 
illustrated RITD’s operation theorem of the 
latching phenomenon as shown in Fig. 3(a). The 
operation process of this proposed device can be 
described as follows: Pulse a current into the 
contact of “INPUT” (see Fig. 10) to make a shift 
of RITD voltage state from the low level to the 
high level as shown in Fig. 7 so that the high 
voltage can induct the other NMOS’s on. 
Through previous studied we know that a RITD 
provides high density current, high speed switch 
and low power consumption. Consequently, this 
proposed device could eliminate the noise 
shooting when even the gate length is scaling 
down and it can be applied to be use for the high 
density integrated circuit, high speed mix logic 
circuit and memory application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 8. (a) is the cross-section view of multi-levels 
Memory cell, and (b) is its schematic diagram. 
 1. L. Esaki, ‘New phenomenon in narrow 
Germanium p-n junctions’, Phys. Rev., vol. 
109, p. 603, 1958. 
2. L. L. Chang, L. Esaki, and R. Tsu, 
‘ Resonant tunneling in semiconductor 
double barriers’, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 24, 
pp. 593–595, 1974. 
[3]  X. Zhu, X. Zheng, M. Pak, M. O. Tanner, 
and K. L.Wang, “A Si bistable diode 
utilizing interband tunneling junctions,” 
Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 71, pp. 2190–2192, 
1997 
[4]  S. Sudirgo a,*, R.P. Nandgaonkar a, B. 
Curanovic a, J.L. Hebding a, R.L. Saxer 
a,S.S. Islam a, K.D. Hirschman a, S.L. 
Rommel a, S.K. Kurinec a,P.E. Thompson b, 
N. Jin c, P.R. Berger c,’Monolithically 
integrated Si/SiGe resonant interband tunnel 
diode/CMOS demonstrating low voltage 
MOBILE operation’(2004). 
[5] Niu Jin, Sung-Yong Chung, Anthony T. Rice, 
and Paul R. Berger, Ronghua Yu, Phillip E. 
Thompson, Roger Lake,‘151 kA\cm2 peak 
current densities in Si\SiGe resonant 
interband tunneling diodes for high-power 
mixed-signal applications’, APPLIED 
PHYSICS LETTERS (2003). 
[6] X. N.J. , S.Y.C., R.M.H. , P.R.B. , R.Y. , 
P.E. , S.L.R. , ‘Tri-State Logic Using 
Vertically IntegratedSi–SiGe Resonant 
Interband Tunneling Diodes With Double 
NDR’, IEEE ELECTRON DEVICE 
LETTERS(2004) 
[7] S.Y.C. , N.J. , P.R.B. , R.Y. , P.E.T. , R.L. , 
S.L.R. , S.K.K. , ‘Three-terminal Si-based 
negative differential resistance circuit 
element with adjustable peak-to-valley 
current ratios using a monolithic vertical 
integration’, APPLIED PHYSICS 
LETTERS(2004). 
[8] Niu Jin, Dongmin Liu, Sung-Yong Chung, 
Ronghua Yu, Wu Lu, Paul R. Berger, and 
Phillip E. Thompson,‘A Combined Model 
for Si-based Resonant Interband Tunneling 
Diodes Grown on SOI’. 
[9] N. Jin, S.Y. Chung, R. Yu, P.R. Berger and 
P.E. Stephen Sudirgo, Reinaldo Vega, Rohit 
P. Nandgaonkar, Karl D. Hirschman, Sean L. 
Rommel, Santosh K. Kurinec, Phillip E. 
Thompsonb, Niu Jin , and Paul R. Berger,
‘Overgrown Si/SiGe Resonant Interband 
Tunnel Diodes for Integration with 
CMOS’. 
 
