the bipedal robot are listed.  Its direct kinematics is then 
derived. 
The biped robot is designed for reliable walking and 
easy controlling.  These ideas become the center targets of 
realizing the structure and mechanism of the biped robot.  
Biped robots are machines, which imitate human behaviors 
such as walking, standing, running, and so on.  In intuition, 
its structure design thus observes human mechanism how 
to finish walking, and to control body stably very well. 
Fig. 1 shows the mechanism of the biped robot designed 
with twelve DOFs.  As shown in Fig. 1, the biped robot 
owns fifteen links and twelve joints consisting of hip, thigh, 
knee, and ankle.  One foot has six DOFs, three DOFs in 
hip, one DOF in knee, and two DOFs in ankle, respectively.  
The biped robot thus needs twelve motors for motion.  In 
addition, there is a virtual upper body, trunk, defined for 
studying the biped robot motion influenced by up limb. 
Note that θi(z) is the rotation to z axis with θi, αi(x or 
y) is the rotation to x or y axes with αi, ai(x) is the 
translation to x axis with ai, and the bi(y or z) is the 
translation to y or z axes. 
 
Fig. 1. The mechanism and coordinate systems of the 
design biped robot. 
3.  Planning of Walking Patterns 
In this section, two 4-3-4 polynomials connected to 
compose the trajectories of biped robot waist and swing 
limb heel are described.  Both trajectories consist of 
walking patterns of the biped robot.  The parameters of 
walking patterns represented by the trajectory based on 4-
3-4 polynomials are figured out by four definitions.  These 
definitions try to show up how to design the walking 
patterns based on the trajectory of 4-3-4 polynomials. 
 
Fig. 2. The trajectories of the biped robot waist and the 
swing leg heel. 
The notion of walking planning considers not only the 
location of swing limb heel but also that of the biped robot 
waist.  This notion is based on human walking that swing 
limb heel moves for striding a step, but waist moves to 
control the center of gravity for walking stability.  In the 
planning of walking patterns, there are thus two 
trajectories: the biped robot waist and the swing limb heel 
as shown in Fig. 2.  According to the two trajectories, all 
joint angle trajectories of the biped robot can be solved by 
its inverse kinematics, which will be derived in next 
section.  Assigning the locations of robot waist and swing 
limb heel during walking is more practical than only 
assigning that of swing limb heel in general walking 
pattern planning.  If all joint angles are solved according to 
only assigning the heel location, the waist and trunk of the 
biped robot solved by uncertain posture are an unpractical 
solution.  Assigning the locations of not only heel but also 
waist lets the biped walking in stable posture be possible. 
There are two design issues about planning of both 
trajectories.  The first is how to design the whole 
trajectories.  The trajectories considered in the planning are 
continuity.  The continuous trajectories of the swing limb 
heel and the biped robot waist make continuous joint angle 
trajectories possible.  There are many kinds of continuous 
polynomials such as three-cubic, five-cubic, 4-3-4, and so 
on.  The 4-3-4 polynomial is famous for designing 
continuous function [15].  It can be used to design velocity 
and acceleration as well.  The 4-3-4 polynomial is thus 
used to design the trajectories of waist and heel for the 
walking planning.  The second is how to choose the better 
trajectory.  The choice of the better trajectory is based on 
wasting motion energy of the biped robot.  In section 5, 
motion energy are defined for comparing the biped robot 
in distinct trajectories. 
In a 4-3-4 polynomial, there are four points, initial, lift-
off, set-down and final, that designer can designate.  Let 
the times of the four points be t0, t1, t2, and tf.  The 4-3-4 
polynomial needs three functions to connect the four points 
as follows ( ) 10112123134141 atatatatath ++++=  (3) 
( ) 20212223232 atatatath +++=  (4) 
ωs = 4af4t3 + 3af3t2 + 2af2t + af1, and (9) 
αs = 12af4t2 + 6af3t + 2af2, respectively. (10) 
The set-down velocity can be also approached as 
ωs,0 ≡ (zf-z5)/(tf-t5). (11) 
Besides, the interesting deceleration is 
αs,0 = αs(t5) = 12af4 25t  + 6af3t5 + 2af2. (12) 
Notice that the heel and waist trajectories of biped 
robots defined by Zh(x) and Zw(x), respectively, are 
functions of x(t), but the variable x(t) can be transferred 
into time scale for Zh(x) and Zw(x) related to time t.  It is 
then easy to solve the velocity and acceleration of heel and 
waist trajectories based on two 4-3-4 polynomials.  For 
example, the trajectory shown in Fig. 3 plans to perform a 
stride SH = 80 mm and SL = 60 mm.  If the time scale of 
the trajectory is designed by 6 ms, then (z1-zi)/(x1-xi) = 
20/10 = 3.  Thus, ωl,0 is 30 mm/sec. 
 
Fig. 4. The tall 1.2 m robot. 
 
The velocity and acceleration of biped robot limbs is 
vital during walking.  Conventional researches only take 
care of velocity and acceleration for optimal energy 
consumption.  However, the force relied on the velocity 
and acceleration of biped robot limbs is not just energy 
consumption, but is very useful for a biped robot in special 
ground condition such as slip plane or in special walking 
styles [14].  The walking pattern based on 4-3-4 
polynomials provides the parameters such as ωl, αl, ωs and 
αs to design desired force for biped robot walking.  Hence, 
the optimal energy consumption studied in this paper is the 
walking patterns designed for a desired velocity and 
acceleration.  The desired velocity and acceleration include 
lift-off velocity and acceleration, and set-down velocity 
and acceleration as definitions 3 and 4. 
In addition to the theoretical study, a tall 1.2 m robot is 
implemented as shown in Fig. 4. 
4.  Conclusions and Further Development 
In this paper, the walking patterns based on two 4-3-
4 polynomials composed for both heel and waist 
trajectories are proposed.  The 4-3-4 polynomial allows the 
walking pattern trajectories to design not only position but 
also velocity and acceleration.  This feature makes 
appropriate torque designed for lift-off and set-down limb 
possible. 
5.  REFERENCES 
[1] P. Sardain and G. Bessonnet, “Forces Acting on a 
Biped Robot. Center of Pressure-Zero Moment 
Point,” IEEE Trans. On System, Man, and 
Cybernetics - Part A: Systems and Human, Vol. 34, 
No. 5, pp. 630-637, 2004. 
[2] Song S.M and Waldron K.J., “Machines That Walks: 
The Adaptive Suspension Vehicle”. Cambridge, MA: 
MIT Press, 1998. 
[3] http://asimo.honda.com 
[4] http://products.sony.co.uk/sony_qrio.asp  
[5] M. Vukobratović, B. Borovac and V. Potkonjak, 
“Towards a Unified Understanding of Basic Notions 
and terms in Humanoid Robotics,” Robotica, Vol. 25, 
pp. 87-101, 2006. 
[6] H. Lim, A. Ishii and A. Takanishi, “Emotion-based 
Biped Walking,” Robotica, Vol. 22, pp. 577-586, 
2004. 
 
