I 
 
CONTENTS 
CONTENTS ……………………………………….…………………………………..I 
NOMENCLATURE …………………………………………………………………..II 
TABLE CAPTION …………………………………………………………………..IV 
FIGURE CAPTION ………………………………………………………………....IV 
ABSTRACT ………………………………………………………………………….X 
中文摘要 ……………….………………………………………………………….XII 
CHAPTER 1 Introduction ………………………………………………………….....1 
    1.1 Motivation …………………………………………………………………...1 
    1.2 Literature survey ……………………………………………………………..2 
    1.3 Scope of present work ……………………………………………………….3 
CHAPTER 2 Experimental Methods ………………………………………………....4 
    2.1 Experimental apparatus ……………………………………………………...4 
      2.1.1 Wind tunnel ……………………………………………………………..4 
      2.1.2 Jet flow supply system ………………………………………………….4 
      2.1.3 Smoke flow generator …………………………………………………..5 
      2.1.4 Acoustic excitation generator …………………………………………...7 
    2.2 Experimental instruments and methods ……………………………………..8 
      2.2.1 Flow visualization ………………………………………………………8 
      2.2.2 Jet boundaries detection…………………………………………………9 
2.2.3 Instability frequency detection ……………………………………….....9 
      2.2.4 Tracer-gas concentration detection …………………………………….10 
      2.2.5 PIV measurement ……………………………………………………...10 
CHAPTER 3 Transverse Jet Excited at off-resonance Strouhal Numbers ……..……12 
    3.1 Jet pulsations at tube exit under zero-crossflow condition …………………12 
    3.2 Characteristic flow patterns ………………………………………………...13 
    3.3 Instability frequency and characteristic flow regime ………………………15 
    3.4 Visual jet-penetration height and spread width …………………………….17 
    3.5 Dispersion …………………………………………………………….…….18 
    3.6 Jet boundary and trajectory ………………………………………………...19 
CHAPTER 4 Transverse Jet Excited at Resonance Strouhal Numbers ……………..21 
    4.1 Jet pulsations at tube exit under zero-crossflow condition …………………21 
    4.2 Characteristic flow patterns ………………………………………………...21 
    4.3 Jet penetration and spread ………………………………………………….23 
    4.4 Dispersion …………………………………………………………………..24 
CHAPTER 5 Comparison between Stack-issued and Wall-issued Transverse jets …26 
    5.1 Jet pulsations at tube exit under zero-crossflow condition ………..….…….26 
III 
 
Lw maximum axial length of the first wave in a swinging period 
lu Lagrangian integral turbulence length scale in axial direction 
lw Lagrangian integral turbulence length scale in transverse direction 
R jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio (=ρj uj
2
 /ρw uw
2
) 
Rej exit Reynolds number of jet (= ujd/νj) 
Rv jet-to-crossflow velocity ratio 
Rew free-stream Reynolds number of crossflow (=uwD/νw) 
Rτ, u autocorrelation coefficient of axial velocity fluctuation 
Rτ, w autocorrelation coefficient of transverse velocity fluctuation 
Sc central streamline 
Sl lee side streamline 
Su upwind side streamline 
SPL sound-pressure-level 
Stres resonance Strouhal number (= fres d/uj0' ) 
Stexc excitation Strouhal number (= fexc d/uj ) 
t evolving time starting from the beginning of an excitation cycle 
T period of acoustic excitation cycle 
t* dimensionless time, = t/T 
u instantaneous axial velocity component 
u′ axial velocity fluctuation 
u  time-averaged axial velocity 
uj average exit velocity of jet 
uw free-stream velocity of crossflow 
uj0 exit-flow velocity under zero-crossflow condition 
uj0' 
RMS value of the velocity pulsation at the jet exit under zero-crossflow 
condition 
W visual spread width of jet in z direction  
w′ transverse velocity fluctuation 
w  time-averaged transverse velocity 
x, y, z Cartesian coordinates with origin at center of jet exit plane 
V 
 
Fig. 3.4 Instantaneous flow pattern evolution in median plane of excited elevated 
transverse jet. Synchronized flapping jet: R = 1.2, Rej = 1000, Stexc = 0.1. Exposure 
time: 1/10000 s. …………………………………………….………………………..62 
Fig. 3.5 Variation of axial length of first oscillation wave of synchronized flapping jet 
with excitation Strouhal number. Rej = 1000. ……………………………………….63 
Fig. 3.6 Instantaneous flow pattern evolution in median plane of excited elevated 
transverse jet. Synchronized flapping jet: R = 1.2, Rej = 1000, Stexc = 0.45. Exposure 
time: 1/10000 s. ……………………………………………………………………...64 
Fig. 3.7 Instantaneous flow pattern evolution in median plane of excited elevated 
transverse jet. Transition mode: R = 1.2, Rej = 1000, Stexc = 0.67. Exposure time: 
1/10000 s. ……………………………………………………………………………65 
Fig. 3.8 Instantaneous flow pattern evolution in median plane of excited elevated 
transverse jet. Synchronized shear-layer vortices: R = 1.2, Rej = 1000, Stexc = 1.01. 
Exposure time: 1/10000 s. …………………………………………………………...66 
Fig. 3.9 Velocity histories of jet instabilities in near field as acoustic excitation 
applied. (a) synchronized flapping jet excited at off-resonance frequency, (b) 
synchronized swinging jet excited at resonance frequency, (c) transition, (d) 
synchronized shear-layer vortices. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000. …………………………….67 
Fig. 3.10 Power spectrum density functions of the jet instabilities in the near field as 
acoustic excitation applied. (a) synchronized flapping jet excited at off-resonance 
frequency, (b) synchronized swinging jet excited at resonance frequency, (c) transition, 
(d) synchronized shear-layer vortices. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000. ………………………...68 
Fig. 3.11 Instability frequencies (a) and turbulence intensities (b) in different 
characteristic flow modes. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000. ……………………………………..69 
Fig. 3.12 Regimes for characteristic flow modes of elevated transverse jet under 
acoustic excitation. Rej = 1000. ……………………………………………………...70 
Fig. 3.13 Long-exposure pictures of elevated transverse jet. Rej = 1000. Exposure 
time: 2 s. ……………………………………………………………………………..71 
Fig. 3.14 Penetration height (a) and spread width (b) of elevated transverse jet at x/d = 
20. Rej = 1000. ………………………………………………………………………72 
Fig. 3.15 Carbon-monoxide concentration distributions at various axial stages. Upper 
row: no excitation; middle row: synchronized flapping jet excited at resonance 
frequency; lower row: synchronized shear-layer vortices. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000. ….....73 
VII 
 
Fig. 5.2 Jet pulsation characteristics at zero-crossflow condition. Rej = 2000. (a) 
pulsation amplitudes, (b) pulsation intensities at resonance conditions. …..………...88 
Fig. 5.3 Variations of excitation voltage and pulsation jet velocity at zero-crossflow 
condition. Rej = 2000. (a) acoustical excitation signal, (b) jet velocity oscillation at 
tube exit. ……………………………………………………………………………..89 
Fig. 5.4 Instantaneous flow patterns in median plane of the non-excited stake-issued 
and wall-issued transverse jets. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. Exposure time: 1/10000 s. (a) and 
(c) shear layer vortices travelling in upwind shear layer, (b) and (d) shear layer 
vortices vanished. …………………………………………………………….……...90 
Fig. 5.5 Instantaneous flow patterns evolution of excited transverse jets in median 
plane. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000, Stres = 0.28. Exposure time: 1/10000 s. (a)-(d) excited 
stack-issued transverse jet, (e)-(h) excited wall-issued transverse jet. ………………91 
Fig. 5.6 Height of leading vortex ring. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. ………………………...92 
Fig. 5.7 Long-exposure flow patterns of the transverse jets. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. 
Exposure time:  2 s. ………………………………………………………………...93 
Fig. 5.8 Normalized penetration height. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. ……….……………...94 
Fig. 5.9 Normalized spread width. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. …………….………………95 
Fig. 5.10 Variations of the normalized penetration height and spread width at various 
jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratios. Stres = 0.28, Rej = 2000. …………………...96 
Fig. 5.11 Carbon monoxide concentration distributions at various axial stages. ……97 
Fig. 5.12 Comparison of jet trajectories. ………………………………………….....98 
Fig. 5.13 Variation of maximum carbon monoxide concentration with streamwise 
distance. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. ………………………………………………………..99 
Fig. 5.14 Carbon monoxide concentration distributions of elevated transverse jet 
under acoustic excitation at resonance frequency. x/d = 20, R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. …100 
Fig. 5.15 Variation of maximum carbon monoxide concentration with Stres at x/d = 20. 
R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. ………………………………………………………………...101 
Fig. 6.1 Instantaneous images of the non-excited and excited transverse jets captured 
by PIV system at various characteristic flow modes. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000. ………...102 
Fig. 6.2 Instantaneous velocity vectors and streamlines of the non-excited and excited 
transverse jets at R = 1.2 and Rej = 1000. ………………………………………….103 
IX 
 
fluctuations of non-excited and excited transverse jets along streamline evolved from 
center point of jet exit. Rej = 1000 and R = 1.2. ……………………………………116 
Fig. 6.16 Lagrangian integral length scale distributions of axial and transverse 
velocity fluctuations of non-excited and excited transverse jets along streamline 
evolved from center point of jet exit. Rej = 1000 and R = 1.2. …………………….117 
Fig. 6.17 Comparison between the centerline trajectories and velocity trajectories. 118 
Fig. 6.18 Centerline and velocity trajectories. ……...……………….……………..119 
 
XI 
 
transverse jet was excited in the synchronized flapping jet mode, particularly at the 
resonance frequency, the jet shot to high altitude and was drastically less deflected 
than the non-excited transverse jet. Therefore, the excited transverse jet at resonance 
condition produced the highest jet trajectory and largest jet penetration and spread. 
The turbulence intensities, vorticities, and turbulent shear stress of the excited 
transverse jet exhibited dramatically higher values than those of the non-excited 
transverse jet. Lagrangian integral time and length scales of the transverse jet excited 
at the resonance condition were drastically smaller than those of the non-excited one.  
 
Keywords: jet in crossflow, acoustic excitation, mixing characteristics, PIV measurement 
1 
 
CHAPTER 1  
Introduction 
 
1.1 Motivation 
The subject of the jet in crossflow, which is usually called the transverse jet, has been 
studied extensively because of its widespread applications, particularly in combustion, 
mixing, cooling, stack flare, and propulsion devices. The subject is commonly identified in 
two categories according to the jet’s source—the jet may eject from an orifice on a wall 
[1-7] or from an elevated stack (or tube) [8-13]. The former is often encountered in the film 
cooling of jet engines, power-plant combustors, V/STOL airplanes, turbine-blade cooling, 
and so on. The presence of elevated stacks or tubes characterizes many situations of 
technological importance in the environmental field, e.g., the stack flares and plume 
dispersion. The wall-issued transverse jet is characterized by three-dimensional flows, 
which are subject to interactions among the jet, jet-wake, and wall–boundary layer whereas 
the flow structures in the stack-issued transverse jet are subject to the interactions among 
the jet, jet-wake, and stack-wake. The common feature of the time-averaged flow structure 
of the wall-issued and stack-issued transverse jets is the counter-rotating vortex pair 
associated with the jet cross-section appearing in the far field. However, the characteristics 
of the flowfield, the coherent structures along the upwind shear layer of the deflected jet, 
the trajectory of the deflected jet, and the wake properties in the leeside of these two cases 
present prominent differences. The dispersion and mixing behaviors as well as the 
mechanisms of the transverse jets issued from a wall orifice and from an elevated stack 
therefore do not follow the same patterns of dominance.  
The formation of coherent structures in the shear layer of the transverse jets leads to 
the mixing of jet and crossflow. The efficient mixing of jet and crossflow plays a major 
role in the applications of fluid engineering. In most of the jet-in-crossflow studies, the 
analysis and discussion concern the jet trajectory, the vortex structures, and the mixing in 
crossflow. Currently, one technique, forcing jet with periodic disturbances, has been 
studied to observe the characteristic flow behaviors and to enhance penetration and mixing 
of the transverse jets. The appearance of the characteristic vortical structure changes 
significantly when the jet is excited at some specific excitation conditions. The present 
work studies the flow and mixing characteristics of an acoustically excited stack-issued 
transverse Jet.   
 
1.2 Literature survey 
To enhance the mixing process of the transverse jet ejected from a wall orifice, 
researchers have studied the active control of jet-based vorticity generation during the past 
two decades. Several methods, for example, acoustic excitation, piston motion, grating, 
piezoelectric actuators, and solenoid valves were means frequently employed to pulse the 
jet. Recent investigations [14-23] discussing pulsed transverse jets from a wall orifice have 
suggested that temporally varying the jet velocity allows jet penetration and spread to be 
3 
 
weakening effect on the shear-layer instabilities at lower jet-to-crossflow velocity ratios 
(4.1 > Rv > 1.15). Davitian et al., investigated the stability characteristics of the shear layer 
for the transverse jet and jet penetration and spread. They found that acoustic excitation 
produced considerable increase in jet spread and slight improvements in penetration for 
jet-to-crossflow velocity ratios Rv between 1.2 and 10, while acoustic excitation had little 
effect on the jet structure, penetration, and spread, as the jet-to-crossflow velocity ratios 
were smaller than 1.2. 
 
1.3 Scope of present work 
As discussed in the above paragraphs, researchers have been studying the properties 
of a pulsed jet issued from a wall orifice into a crossflow at various pulsating frequencies 
and duty cycles. Fully modulating the wall-issued transverse jet can drastically modify the 
flowfield and significantly increase the jet penetration in comparison with a steady case. 
For the stack-issued transverse jet, however, the literature rarely discusses either the 
characteristics of jet penetration or the effects of jet pulsations on flow behavior, spread, 
and mixing characteristics. Because the stack-issued transverse jet presents features (in 
both the time-averaged flow structures and the unsteady flow structures) that are 
prominently different from those of the wall-issued transverse jet, as discussed earlier, it is 
expected that pulsations of the excited stack-issued transverse jet may exhibit the 
characteristics different from those of the excited wall-issued transverse jet.  
To better understand these flows, the objective of the current study was characterized 
by the spatial/temporal flow behaviors, velocity profile of the shear layer of the transverse 
jet, penetration, spread, concentration measurement, and PIV (Particle image velocimeter) 
measurement in the median plane of the acoustically excited elevated jet in crossflow. The 
flow behaviors were studied by using the laser-light sheet-assisted smoke-flow 
visualization technique. The responses of the velocity pulsation near jet exit and the 
frequency characteristics of the shear layer of the transverse jet were detected by 
employing a hot-wire anemometer. The visual jet boundaries of the transverse jets were 
identified by the image processing method. To measure the pulsating transverse jet’s 
dispersion and jet-trajectory characteristics, this study measured carbon monoxide 
concentrations by releasing a mixture of 10% carbon monoxide in nitrogen as the tracer 
gas. The visual penetration height, spread width, and dispersion of the excited transverse 
jet were measured to delineate the effect of the acoustic excitation on the mixing capability. 
A high-speed PIV was employed to study the velocity field of the excited transverse jet and 
the differences from the non-excited ones. The topological flow patterns, velocity 
distributions, turbulence intensity distributions, vorticity contours, turbulent shear stress, 
Lagrangian integral time and length scales, and trajectories of the non-excited and excited 
jets were presented and compared. The results helped to better understand the velocity field 
of the excited transverse jet and the differences in the flow fields of the excited and 
non-excited transverse jets. 
  
5 
 
into the aluminum floor plate of the wind-tunnel test section. The stack tube was adapted to 
a tip of a nozzle assembly. The 300 mm-length nozzle was profiled into a fifth-order 
polynomial, where the concentration ratio was 900. Upstream of the nozzle was a plenum 
on which was mounted a loudspeaker used for acoustical excitation of the jet. This 
arrangement, which was termed ―downstream longitudinal irradiation‖ by Ginevsky et al., 
[26] has facilitated many research’s efforts to pulse a jet in quiescent air or in crossflow. 
The air passed through the regulator, rotameter, nozzle, and tube and consequently emitted 
to the test section. The function of the regulator was to stabilize the pressure and remove 
the moisture from the air. A calibrated rotameter was used to measure the jet flow velocity 
(uj). The jet Reynolds number was defined by Rej = ujd/νj, where d is the inner diameter of 
the elevated tube and νj is the kinematic viscosity of the crossflow. The jet Reynolds 
number was ranged from 800 to 2000 in the current experiment. The jet-to-crossflow 
momentum-flux ratio R is defined as R  juj
2
/wuw
2
, where j and w denote the densities 
of jet and crossflow, respectively, and uj and uc represent the velocities of jet and crossflow, 
respectively. Because air is used in this study for both the jet flow and the crossflow, so 
that j = w, the jet-to-crossflow momentum-flux ratio R is the square of the 
jet-to-crossflow velocity ratio Rv. The jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio was ranged 
from 0.1 to 10 in the current experiment. The study has described positions in terms of a 
rectangular coordinate system (x, y, z), as shown in the subset of Fig. 2.1. The origin of the 
coordinate system was centered at the exit plane of the tube. 
    Figure 2.2 shows the experimental setup of the wall-issued transverse jet. The tube 
exit was mounted flush with the top surface of a flat plate. This plate was 300 mm in width, 
300 mm in length, and 5 mm in thickness. The plate with sharp leading and trailing edges 
was placed 160 mm over the floor of the test section to control boundary layer thickness. 
The jet exit was located 30 mm downstream from the leading edge of the plate. The 
boundary layer thickness at this location was about 1.5 mm [27]. 
 
2.1.3 Smoke flow generator 
    The kerosene oil-mist particle used for flow visualization and PIV technique was 
generated by smoke flow generator. The construction of the smoke flow generator is shown 
in Fig. 2.3. The kerosene was evaporated by heating an electric heater inside the smoke 
flow generator. As the cool air flow passed through the smoke generator, the air flow 
entrained with the evaporated kerosene, in which the evaporated kerosene condensed and 
become oil mist. The kerosene oil-mist particles were consequently formed at the outlet of 
the smoke flow generator. Because the smoke flow was suitably cooled before injecting 
into the cavity upstream of the nozzle, the measured temperature of the jet flow at the tube 
exit was close to the ambient temperature of the crossflow. The temperature difference 
between the smoke jet and crossflow was lower than 1
o
C. The smoked air stream then 
issued through the tube exit into the transverse air stream, as shown in Fig. 2.1. The 
diameter of the kerosene oil-mist particles, measured by a Malvern 2600C particle analyzer, 
was 4.7±0.2 μm. The density of the kerosene oil-mist was 5.31 kg/m3, as shown in Fig. 2.4.  
7 
 
gravity acceleration velocity is 3.732×10
-7
 μm/s. Therefore, the gravity force of the 
kerosene oil-mist particle can be neglected. A stopping distance (xs) shown below is used to 
consider the situation that the airflow suddenly bends with 90
o
.  
xs = τ×u0                                      (2-6) 
In this study, the flow velocities (u0) are ranged from 0.5 to 13 m/s, the stop distance are 
therefore determined within the range of 1.90×10
-7－4.95×10-6 m. The Stokes number (Stk) 
which is calculated by the ratio of the stop distance to a characteristic length scale of the 
flow is defined by the following equation.  
                              
d
u
Stk
0


                         (2-7) 
The characteristic length used in the calculation of the Stokes number is the inner diameter 
of the elevated tube d. For the kerosene oil-mist particle used in this study, the Stokes 
numbers are determined in the range of 3.8×10
-5－9.9×10-4. A small Stokes number implies 
that a particle adopts the fluid velocity very quickly. The ratio of the relaxation time 
constant of kerosene oil-mist particle to the minimum period of acoustic excitation (T = 1 
ms, as the maximum excitation fexc = 1000 Hz) is 3.808×10
-4 
s. It is the order of 10
-4
 for 
forcing jet at 1000 Hz.  
    The above parameters which represent the characteristic for the kerosene oil-mist 
particle moving in the airflow are listed in Table 2-1. The slip correction factor is close to 
unity, so that the slip effect between kerosene oil-mist particle and airflow is very small. 
Furthermore, the values of relaxation time constant, terminal settling velocity, stopping 
distance, and Stokes number are much smaller than unity. These results suggest that the 
kerosene oil-mist particles can follow the fluid motion in the transverse jet with high 
fidelity. This kerosene oil-mist particle can be reliably used in the flow visualization and 
PIV technique.  
 
2.1.4 Acoustic excitation generator 
    The periodic disturbance applied to force the jet flow was conditioned by the acoustic 
excitation generator. The acoustic excitation generator consisted of function generator, 
power amplifier, and loudspeaker. The periodic signal such as triangular, sinusoidal, or 
square waveforms was generated by a function generator, and the output signal was 
verified by an oscilloscope. The excitation frequency (fexc) at the function generator varied 
from 60 to 1000 Hz, with a minimum resolution of 1 Hz. The output voltage from the 
function generator was amplified by a power amplifier. This type of amplified signal 
oscillated the voice coil of the loudspeaker. The maximum attainable excitation voltage 
was 15 volts. The loudspeaker had a face diameter of 15 cm. The electrical resistance of 
the voice coil was 6.6 ohms, measured at the loudspeaker terminals. The moving mass of 
the loudspeaker, which included the voice coil, dust cap, surround, spider, and diaphragm, 
was 22.07 grams. Triangular, sinusoidal, and square waveforms were first tested to observe 
the effect of waveform shape on the flow behaviors. The flows presented similar behavior 
using different excitation waveforms. However, the jet penetration and dispersion of the 
9 
 
 
2.2.2 Jet boundaries detection 
To define the visual boundaries of the transverse jet, an image processing technique , 
edge-detection, proposed by Shapiro et al. [30] was used in this study. The data of the 
long-exposure image of the transverse jet stored in the memories were in gray levels. 
Around the jet boundaries, the gray levels increased from low values (for areas out of the 
jet) to high values (for areas in the jet) and did not show a clear cut-off. It is therefore 
difficult to determine the jet boundaries by considering the values of the gray levels. A 
criterion was thus required to determine the jet boundaries. Shapiro et al. [30] proposed 
calculating the gray level gradients around the visual jet boundaries and using the peak 
values of the local gray level gradients within those areas to denote the jet boundaries. In 
this study, the absolute values of the gray level gradients within the visual upper and lower 
jet boundaries were found to exhibit local maximum values. The z coordinates 
corresponding to the local maximum gray level gradients were subsequently used to denote 
the jet boundaries at the target stage of x/d. The penetration height and spread width were 
hence calculated according to the determined z coordinates of the jet boundaries. The data 
taken from 20 long-exposure images were averaged to obtain the final results because the 
average values converged to a nearly constant value when the image number used for the 
averaging was more than 15. The uncertainty of the visual penetration and spread value 
was estimated to be about 4%
 
[31] by considering the uncertainties of the image grabbing 
device and image processing algorithms. 
 
2.2.3 Instability frequency detection 
    A home-made, constant-temperature, one-component hot-wire anemometer detected 
the traveling vortical instabilities in the upwind shear layer or in the oscillating motions of 
the deflected jet. In order to detect properly the frequency of the instability motions, the 
probe position underwent careful adjustment and, thereby, captured the oscillation signals 
caused by the swept-over character of the vortices or of the oscillation waves. To analyze 
the dynamic behaviors and to calculate the flow statistics, the current study fed the output 
signals of the hot-wire anemometer simultaneously into an FFT analyzer and a high-speed 
PC-based data-acquisition system. During the experiment, the FFT analyzer served to 
monitor the output signals of the hot-wire anemometer relative to the time and frequency 
domains, thereby ensuring the appropriateness of the probe position at all times. The 
hot-wire probe used was TSI 1210-T1.5, which could be applied in either end flow or the 
cross flow. The original tungsten wire was replaced by platinum wire. The wire diameter 
and length were 5 m and 1.5 mm, respectively. The dynamic response corresponding to 
the electronic square-wave test was adjusted to 20 kHz. The sampling rate and the elapse 
time of the data-acquisition system were set to 23,000 samples/second and 7 seconds. The 
accuracy for the hot-wire probe positioning was 10 m. The accuracy of the instability 
frequencies depended not only on the response of the hot-wire anemometer but also on the 
record length and the sampling rate of the FFT analyzer. The uncertainty of the frequency 
11 
 
0.001 within the experimental range, the slip between the flow and particle could be 
ignored. Therefore, the kerosene oil-mist particles can sufficiently follow the flow. For the 
PIV measurement, the frame rate (rate of the double-pulsing image pairs per second) were 
adjusted with various excitation frequencies, as shown in Table 2-4, and the laser was 
externally triggered at double-pulsing mode. The time interval between two consecutive 
laser pulses was 50 μs. 
The consecutive double-exposed image pairs were analyzed by means of a 
cross-correlation technique [32] imbedded in the PIV analysis software. In general, the 
software calculated the average displacement of local groups of particles in consecutive 
double exposed image pairs. The interrogation window was set to 3232 pixels. The 
displacement of the consecutive double-exposed image pairs relative to the length of the 
interrogation area was held to be smaller than 1/4 as suggested by Keane and Adrian [33] 
to reduce velocity bias in the regions of large velocity gradients. The seeding density was 
adjusted to keep the number of particle-image pairs per interrogation spot no less than four 
so that the measurement reliability would not become significantly poor. The number of 
vectors (the grids) predetermined for the PIV analysis results was set to 2601 for the 
median plane of the transverse jets. Error check and interpolation are used to identify 
outliers and then regenerate interpolated values to replace the identified outliers. As 
observed during the time series data processing, there are at most 20 interpolated or 
spurious vectors out of 2601. The instantaneous velocity fields were then used to calculate 
other unsteady and time-average flow characteristics. 
    Error check and interpolation routines served to identify outliers. Regenerated 
interpolated values served to replace the identified outliers. The percentage of outliers in a 
vector map usually depends on factors such as seeding density, seeding homogeneity, 
out-of-plane motion, pulse separation, and analysis parameters such as the size of an 
interrogation area. Even for well-optimized PIV images that were analyzed with 
appropriate parameters, there was still a finite probability of getting some outliers. In 
general, spurious vectors were less than 0.6%. The general-purpose interpolation kernel, 
which used the nearest four or six neighbor values for processing, was optimized for vector 
maps with a 50% overlap of the interrogation and the interpolation algorithm. The method 
of interpolation was based on a weighted mean technique that replaced the values at 
filtered sites in an iterative manner by replacing those with the most surrounding valid 
values first, and then working toward those that were less favorably positioned for accurate 
and reliable interpolation.  
 
13 
 
velocity, u′j0/uj, varied with the excitation Strouhal number, as shown in Fig. 3.2(b). 
Different jet Reynolds numbers presented different resonance Strouhal numbers—a smaller 
Rej has a larger resonance Strouhal number because jet exit velocity uj changes its value 
while the resonance frequency stays unchanged. For instance, at Rej = 800, 1000, and 1500 
the resonance Strouhal numbers present different values of 0.57, 0.45, and 0.30, 
respectively. 
 
3.2 Characteristic flow patterns 
Figure 3.3 shows typical instantaneous flow patterns in the median plane of the 
non-excited elevated transverse jet at the jet-to-crossflow momentum-flux ratio R = 1.2 
obtained by the laser-assisted smoke-flow visualization technique. The hand sketches were 
imitated (by hand) from Figs. 3.3(a) and 3.3(b) to depict the characteristic flow structures 
and evolution process. As shown in Fig. 3.3(a), a clear counterclockwise-rotating vortex 
train appeared on the upwind side of the deflected jet after the jet left the tube-tip a 
distance of about 1.5d. This vortex train did not appear to be stable. It would appear 
intermittently and would disappear sometimes without periodicity. Figure 3.3(b) shows the 
state in which the vortex train would disappear. The hand sketches shown on the right-hand 
side of Figs. 3.3(a) and 3.3(b) depict this phenomenon. In general, this type of flow 
structure occurs at R > 1 and has been termed the ―jet-dominated mode‖ [11-13]. The 
deflected jet column near the tube exit was coherent. The jet fluids started to disperse and 
expand appreciably at x/d ≈ 2 - 3 as the jet column was bent over. 
Figure 3.4 shows the flow-pattern evolution in the median plane of the transverse jet 
excited by the sound waves at the frequency fexc = 60 Hz (Stexc = 0.1) within an excitation 
period. The dimensionless time t* marked on the pictures is defined as t* = t/T, where t is 
the evolving time starting from the beginning of an excitation cycle and T is the period of 
the acoustic excitation cycle. At t* = 0 (Fig. 3.4(a)), the crossflow impingement severely 
deflected the jet column near the tube exit. The jet fluids in the downstream area presented 
large up-down oscillating motions (two waves denoted by #1 and #2 are shown in the hand 
sketch). At t* = 0.24 (Fig. 3.4(b)), the jet column near the tube exit tilted up a little and 
induced a small wavy structure immediately downstream of the deflected jet, as denoted by 
wave #3 in the hand sketch. At t* = 0.64 (Fig. 3.4(c)), the jet column near the tube exit 
tilted up to an almost up-right position. Wave #3 grew larger, and waves #1 and #2 moved 
a little downstream. At t* = 0.82 ms (Fig. 3.4(d)), the jet column near the tube exit tilted 
down and wave #3 kept enlarging. Wave #1 almost moved out of the frame of the picture. 
The scenario subsequently returned to that depicted in Fig. 3.4(a) (i.e., the beginning of the 
excitation period). The jet oscillation frequency of Fig. 3.4, estimated by means of 
observing the video images and of counting the number of jet oscillations within the time 
period 8.3 s, was about 60 Hz, which is equal to the ―forcing‖ frequency of the applied 
acoustic excitation. The frequency of the jet oscillation was synchronized with the forcing 
frequency of the acoustic excitation. Under the present conditions, the pulsation intensity 
u′j0/uj was about 50%, as shown in Fig. 3.2(b). Such large pulsation intensity caused the jet 
15 
 
show the evolution process of the shear-layer vortices in one excitation period, two 
vortices (which are somewhat close to each other) are created, denoted as #9 and #10 
vortices in the hand sketches corresponding to Figs. 3.7(b), 3.7(c), and 3.7(d). These two 
vortices emerged in one period of acoustic excitation travel downstream and merged 
together after a short distance traveling downstream. The frequency of the traveling 
vortices of Fig. 3.7, which this study estimated by observing the video images and 
counting the shear-layer vortices created near the tube tip within a time period of 2.5 s, was 
800 Hz, which is equal to twice the excitation frequency fexc = 400 Hz. For Stexc less than 
about 0.55 and greater than about 0.80, the flow evolutions appear to be similar to the type 
shown in Fig. 3.7. An elevated transverse jet presenting such features is denoted as the 
transition mode. 
Figure 3.8 shows the flow-pattern evolution in the median plane of the transverse jet 
excited by the sound waves at a frequency fexc = 600 Hz (Stexc = 1.01). Streak pictures in 
one period of acoustic excitation are presented. Under this situation, the pulsation intensity 
u′j0/uj is very low—about 1%, as shown in Fig. 3.2(b). The jet column near the tube exit 
thus does not flap back-and-forth, as illustrated in Figs. 3.8(a)-3.8(d). A vortex train with 
backward-rolling vortices appears along the upwind shear layer of the deflected jet. The 
scenarios of the streak pictures look somewhat similar to those of Fig. 3.7. However, only 
one vortex (i.e. vortex #5 shown in the hand sketches corresponding to Figs. 3.8(c) and 
3.8(d)) was created in one period of acoustic excitation, and therefore the frequency of Fig. 
3.8’s traveling vortices, which this study estimated by observing the video images and 
counting the shear-layer vortices traveling across a fixed position near the tube tip within a 
time period of 3.3 s, was about 600 Hz, which equals the forcing frequency fexc = 600 Hz. 
The frequency of the traveling shear-layer vortices was synchronized with the forcing 
frequency of the acoustic excitation. For Stexc larger than about 0.80, the flow patterns 
appear to be similar to the type shown in Fig. 3.8. An elevated transverse jet presenting 
such behaviors is termed synchronized shear-layer vortices, according to the jet’s physical 
features. 
 
3.3 Instability frequency and characteristic flow regime 
A miniature hot-wire anemometer probe placed at a position near the tube exit and 
fine tuned to the probe location, was used to detect the velocity histories u of the 
jet-instability waves. Figure 3.9 shows typical time histories of the pulsating velocities u at 
various Stexc. Figures 3.9(a) and 3.9(b) show the condition of the synchronized flapping jet. 
The signals were periodic with asymmetric wave forms. The peak-to-peak values were 
anomalously large (about 6 m/s) since the excitation pulsation intensities u′j0/uj were 
relatively large, as is shown in Fig. 3.2(b). In the transition mode, as shown in Fig. 3.9(c), 
the wave forms changed drastically when compared with Figs. 3.9(a) and 3.9(b)—the 
magnitude of the pulsating waves decreased drastically and each periodic peak comprised 
dual sub-peaks (as indicated by the arrow heads). Because two vortices (which were 
somewhat close to each other) emerged in one period of acoustic excitation in the 
17 
 
synchronized shear-layer vortices regimes varied with R—the lower the R, the larger the 
critical Stexc. It is worth noting that the velocity signals detected by the hot-wire 
anemometer at R < 0.4 for the transition regime present very obvious ―double sub-peak‖ 
features when compared with Fig. 3.10(c). In the synchronized flapping jet regime (Stexc < 
0.55), the jet column near the tube exit swung back-and-forth and induced large up-down 
oscillating motions in the deflected jet (similar to Figs. 3.4 and 3.6). The oscillating-jet 
frequency coincides with the frequency of acoustic excitation. In the synchronized 
shear-layer vortices regime (Stexc > 0.80), a vortex train appeared on the upwind shear 
layer of the deflected jet (similar to Fig. 3.8). The frequency of the upwind shear-layer 
instability was synchronized with the acoustic excitation frequency. In the transition 
regime (excitation Strouhal number between about 0.55 and 0.80), a vortex train appeared 
on the upwind shear-layer of the deflected jet (similar to Fig. 3.7), but the frequency of the 
shear-layer instability was twice as great as the excitation frequency. 
 
3.4 Visual jet-penetration height and spread width 
Figure 3.13 shows the long-exposure pictures of the elevated transverse jet at no 
excitation (Fig. 3.13(a)) and at various excitation frequencies (Figs. 3.13(b-d)). The centers 
of the images are bright, while the upper and lower boundaries of the deflected jets are not 
sharp enough and therefore are ambiguous for the purposes of identification. One can 
qualitatively compare the features of the jet-penetration heights and spread widths, but it is 
difficult to describe quantitatively these properties because the upper and lower boundaries 
of the deflected jet are visually unclear. The upper and lower boundaries of the deflected 
jet can be identified by reference to a digital-image processing method called the 
―edge-detection technique.‖  
Figures 3.14(a) and 3.14(b) show the normalized penetration height (H/d) and spread 
width (W/d) at x/d = 20, respectively, of the elevated transverse jet excited at various 
frequencies. The data were obtained on the basis of the binary edge-detection technique 
[30]. The jet-penetration height H was measured from the level z = 0 up to the upper 
boundary of the identified deflected jet. The spread width W was defined as the vertical 
distance between the identified upper and lower boundaries of the deflected jet. For the 
non-excited transverse jet, the normalized penetration height H/d increased with the 
increase of the jet-to-crossflow momentum-flux ratio R, but the normalized spread width 
W/d increased alongside increases in R until R ≈ 0.6 and successively decreased as R grew 
greater than about 0.6. For the excited cases, both the penetration height H and the spread 
width W increased alongside increases in the jet-to-crossflow momentum-flux ratio R. The 
increase rate was high at R < 0.6 and was low at R > 0.6. As the excitations were applied at 
mid-frequencies and high frequencies (i.e., in the transition and synchronized shear-layer 
vortices regimes), the penetration height and the spread width obviously did not deviate 
appreciably from those of the non-excited case. However, both the penetration height and 
the spread width of the transverse jet present drastically larger values than those of the 
non-excited jet, when excited at low frequencies (i.e. in the synchronized flapping jet 
19 
 
transition and synchronized shear-layer vortices regimes did not cause Cmax/Co to be lower 
than was the case in the non-excited jet at x/d larger than 15. 
The penetration, spread, and dispersion of the elevated transverse jet were dominated 
by the characteristics of the flow modes. The dramatically enhanced spread and dispersion 
of the jet fluids in the synchronized flapping jet regime were critically subject to the 
influence of the flow characteristics. This finding can be attributed to the flapping jet’s 
inducement of the deflected jet’s large up-down oscillating motions. Huang and Chang [34] 
reported that when a fluidic oscillator transforms a jet’s momentum in the jet-transport 
direction into lateral self-sustained oscillations, the axial momentum of the jet quickly 
dissipates within a short distance and both the turbulence intensity and the entrainment of 
the jet significantly increase. The up-down oscillations induced by the back-and-forth 
flapping motions of the jet column near the tube exit transform the axial momentum of the 
jet into oscillating lateral momentum and therefore cause drastic increases in the lateral 
dispersion and spread. In the transition and synchronized shear-layer vortices regimes, the 
entrainment effects induced by the shear-layer vortices do not present evidence of 
overwhelming influences, in contrast to the effects induced by the up-down oscillations of 
the deflected jet in the synchronized flapping jet regime. 
 
3.6 Jet boundary and trajectory  
Figure 3.17 shows the contours of the upper and lower boundaries of the elevated 
transverse jet under non-excited and excited conditions. The solid lines were obtained from 
the ―edge-detection technique‖ based on the long-exposure smoke-flow visualization 
pictures. The dashed-lines delineate the locations where the CO concentrations attained the 
null value. In all cases of the non-excited and excited elevated transverse jets, the contours 
of the deflected jets (obtained from processing the images of the smoke-flow visualization 
pictures) were enclosed inside the contours (themselves obtained from the measurements 
of tracer-gas concentrations); the differences, despite being insignificant, were 
distinguishable. These differences were possibly induced by two factors: (1) the diffusivity 
of the smoke of the condensed oil mists was not as large as that of the CO gas, and (2) the 
sensitivity of the smoke gray-level identification was not sufficiently high.  
The jet trajectories shown in Fig. 3.18 were obtained from the locus of the positions 
of the maximum CO concentrations. All trajectories were located far above the bisection 
lines between the upper and lower boundaries, and this finding implies that the diffusion 
and the dispersion on the jet’s leeside were stronger than those on the upwind side. The 
complex wake structures [12, 13] on the leeside of the deflected jet and the tube should 
contribute to our understanding of this phenomenon’s nature. The trajectory of the 
non-excited jet (Fig. 3.17(a)) was smoothly bent by the crossflow impingement within an 
axial distance of about three tube diameters. After being bent over, the trajectory of the 
non-excited jet remained almost horizontal after about six tube diameters in the 
downstream area. In the cases of acoustic excitation in the synchronized flapping jet 
regime (Figs. 3.17(b, c)), the jet trajectories were not as smooth as in the non-excited jet in 
21 
 
CHAPTER 4 
Transverse Jet Excited at Resonance Strouhal Numbers 
 
4.1 Jet pulsations at tube exit under zero-crossflow condition 
A one-component hotwire anemometer placed near the tube exit at (x/d, y/d, z/d) = (0, 
0, 0.6) measured the temporal variation of the pulsating jet velocity under the 
zero-crossflow condition. Measurements were made over a range of 800–2000 of jet 
Reynolds numbers. Resonance frequency of the tube/nozzle/loudspeaker assembly, which 
produced the highest jet velocity pulsation amplitude, was observed at 270 Hz. Forcing the 
jet in the frequency range 265 - 285 Hz around the resonance frequency fres = 270 Hz, the 
jet pulsating velocities near the tube exit present drastically large values. A specific 
acoustic excitation frequency, fexe = 275 Hz, was used in this study. Figure 4.1 shows 
velocity histories of the pulsed jet induced by acoustic excitation at fexc = 275 Hz. The 
acoustic excitation produces periodic oscillation of jet velocity uj0 at the tube exit. The 
maximum and time-averaged jet pulsating velocities increased as the jet Reynolds number 
Rej increased. For instance, the maximal jet pulsating velocities increase from 10.6 m/s to 
13 m/s and time-averaged jet velocities increase from 4.81 m/s to 5.94 m/s and the 
root-mean-square values of jet pulsation velocities u′j0 increases from 3.93 m/s to 4.81 m/s 
when Rej increases from 820 to 1200. The frequencies of the jet pulsation remained the 
same as the acoustic excitation frequency. The Strouhal number of acoustic excitation Stexc 
are 0.54 and 0.37 for Rej = 820 and 1200, respectively. 
 
4.2 Characteristic flow patterns 
Figure 4.2 shows the typical instantaneous flow pattern in the median plane of the 
non-excited transverse jet at R = 0.25, Rew = 2100, Rej = 820. The jet issued from the tube 
tip is deflected by the crossflow. A vortex ring evolved from the tube tip rotates clockwise. 
As the vortex traveled to downstream area, the head of the vortex turns up-right and the 
outline of the coherent structure looks like an asymmetric ―mushroom‖. The right side of 
the mushroom vortex rotates clockwise, while the left side of it rotates counterclockwise. 
When the mushroom structure is turned over toward the right, only the vortices rotating 
counterclockwise appear in the shear layer in the downstream area. Additionally, some 
smoke particles emitted from the tube tip are entrained into the tube wake because of the 
downwash effect. The flow behavior of shear-layer vortices is consistent with observations 
obtained by Huang and Lan [13]. They termed this type of shear-layer vortices as the 
backward-rolling vortices. The backward-rolling vortices appear in shear layer as the 
jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio R is 0.15–0.34.  
Figure 4.3 shows the typical instantaneous flow patterns in the median plane of the 
transverse jet in the crossflow at R = 0.25, Rew = 2100, Rej = 820, and fexc = 275 Hz. The 
dimensionless time in the evolution is defined as t* = t/T, where t is the evolving time 
23 
 
Figure 4.5 shows the effect of the crossflow Reynolds number Rew on jet 
characteristic flow modes. The symbols, empty and filled circles, in the domain of the 
jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio R vs. the crossflow Reynolds number Rew denote the 
conditions for experimental observations (assisted by video recordings). All flows with 
conditions located in the regime to the left of the narrow band marked by the short slashed 
lines present the puff flow pattern, which is similar to those shown in Fig. 4.3. While all 
flows with conditions located in the regime to the right of the narrow band marked by short 
slashed lines present the oscillation flow pattern, which was similar to those shown in Fig. 
4.4. The width of the band indicates the uncertainty in flow mode identification. The 
critical crossflow Reynolds number Rew,cri is about 2300. As the crossflow Reynolds 
number is lower than 2300, the flow structure of the elevated pulsating transverse jet 
presents puff mode. As the crossflow Reynolds number is higher than 2300, the flow 
structure of the elevated pulsating transverse jet presents up-down oscillation mode. 
According to the results of wide-range search conducted in this study, the mode-bifurcation 
phenomenon occurs only within the range of excitation frequency fexe = 265－285 Hz 
which is around the resonance frequency of 270 Hz.  
As discussed in above paragraphs, when the jet is excited around resonance frequency 
at crossflow Reynolds numbers lower than about 2300, the velocity pulsation significantly 
produces a series of puff flow structures evolving in the upwind shear layer of the deflected 
jet. As the crossflow Reynolds number is increased to exceed the critical crossflow 
Reynolds number, the flow behavior changes from puff flow structures to up-down 
oscillation in the downstream of the deflected jet. The above discussed phenomenon of 
puff flow mode appears as two conditions coexist: (1) the excitation frequency must be 
around the resonance frequency so that the jet pulsation velocity is large and (2) the 
crossflow Reynolds number must be low enough (Rew < 2300 in this study). Under these 
two conditions, the pulsating jet can shoot up periodically to high latitude before it is 
deflected by the crossflow. If the crossflow Reynolds number is larger than 2300, the 
pulsating jet can not attain high latitude periodically because it is deflected earlier by large 
crossflow momentum. However, the up-shooting pulsating jet near the jet exit flaps back 
and forth (because the jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio varies periodically) and 
induces up-down oscillation of the bent jet. The oscillation mode therefore appears. 
Davitian et al. [25] found that forcing a transverse jet at an acoustic excitation frequency 
fexc = 88 Hz and low jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio (R = 1.44) would induce little 
effect on the jet structure, penetration, and spread. The excitation frequency fexc = 88 Hz 
used in their study was not near the resonance frequency to induce large enough jet 
pulsation velocity and the crossflow Reynolds number (Rew = 2780 based on the outer 
diameter of tube) was not low enough to allow the jet to shoot up periodically to high 
latitude, the puff flow mode therefore was not observed. 
 
4.3 Jet penetration and spread 
Figure 4.6 shows long-exposure images of the acoustically excited elevated transverse 
25 
 
monoxide concentration (CCO) measured in the median planes of the non-excited and 
excited transverse jets at the streamwise stage of x/d = 2. The non-excited transverse jet has 
a much steeper CO concentration distribution profile than the excited transverse jet. By 
forcing the jet at fexc = 275 Hz, the maximum CO concentration (Cmax) marked by the 
arrow decreases from 2.82% to 1.06%, and the latitude of Cmax rises from z/d = 0.66 to z/d 
= 2.0. Thus, acoustic excitation enhances the jet spread and penetration. Carbon monoxide 
in the non-excited transverse jet was detected behind the elevated tube, because the jet 
ejected from tube tip was entrained into the wake near the tube tip by the downwash effect, 
as previously mentioned for the discussion of Fig. 4.2. However, the carbon monoxide 
concentration measured in the wake near the tube tip of the acoustically excited case in Fig. 
4.8 is rare. This is because acoustic excitation increases the jet momentum, and therefore 
the puff flow structure evolved from the elevated tube is strong enough to sustain the shear 
effect of the transverse stream. This phenomenon can also be observed in the flow 
visualization pictures of Figs. 4.3 and 4.6. 
Figure 4.9 shows the variations of carbon monoxide concentration distribution 
profiles with different flow modes at the streamwise stage of x/d = 15. The oscillation flow 
mode has much higher gradient of CO concentration distribution profiles when compared 
with the puff flow mode. As the crossflow Reynolds number Rew increases from 1800 to 
3500, the normalized latitude (z/d), where Cmax appears, reduces from 4.0 to 0.66. Typically, 
the location of Cmax depicts the locus of the jet trajectory. The measurement results 
demonstrate that the jet trajectory in puff flow mode penetrates more deeply into the 
crossflow than that in the oscillation flow mode, and the spread width of the CO 
concentration in the puff flow mode is wider than that in oscillation mode. 
Figure 4.10 shows the normalized maximum carbon monoxide concentration Cmax/Co, 
where Co is the CO concentration at tube exit. The normalized maximum CO concentration 
increases slowly with increasing the crossflow Reynolds number Rew in the puff flow 
mode. As the flow mode becomes oscillation, Cmax/Co increases abruptly with increasing 
the crossflow Reynolds number Rew. The puff flow mode has significantly lower 
normalized maximum CO concentration than that in oscillation flow mode, because 
penetration and spread of puff flow mode are much larger than those of oscillation flow 
mode.  
 
 
 
27 
 
After being coupled with the loudspeaker, the cyclic waveforms become distorted. Figure 
5.3(a) shows the distorted waveforms, measured at the input terminals of the loudspeaker, 
as a time series velocity pulsation at various resonance Strouhal numbers Stres. The 
oscillation amplitudes of the excitation signals decrease with increasing Stres. The 
responses of the jet velocities to the cyclic excitation signals are shown in Fig. 5.3(b). The 
jet velocity oscillations look like distorted sinusoidal waves, and have a phase lag of about 
0.463 ms behind the electronic excitation signals. Excitation signals of sinusoidal and 
triangular waves were ever tested by the authors. As the sinusoidal or triangular wave was 
applied, the jet velocity waveforms behaved similarly to Fig. 5.3(b). However, the 
amplitude of the jet velocity pulsations became smaller than the amplitude of those excited 
by the square wave excitation signal. In order to demonstrate a more prominent case, the 
square wave excitation signal was employed in this study. , 
 
5.2 Characteristic flow patterns 
Figure 5.4 shows the typical instantaneous flow patterns in the median plane of the 
stack-issued and wall-issued transverse jets without acoustic excitation. The jet issued from 
the tube tip is bent by the crossflow. In Fig. 5.4(a), the jet-type vortices travel on the 
upwind side shear-layer of the deflected jet. The jet-type vortices shown in Fig. 5.4(a) are 
not stable—they appear occasionally and disappear at other times, as shown in Fig. 5.4(b). 
This behavior is consistent with the observations of Huang and Lan [13] for the range of 
jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio R > 1. Figures 5.4(c) and 5.4(d) show the flow 
visualization pictures of the wall-issued transverse jet. The experimental conditions are the 
same as those of the elevated transverse jet shown in Figs. 5.4(a) and 5.4(b). The up-wind 
side shear-layer of the wall-issued transverse jet exhibits intermittent appearance of 
coherent structures which are similar to those observed in the stack-issued transverse jet. 
However, the shear-layer vortices evolving in the upwind side shear-layer of the deflected 
wall-issued transverse jet shown in Fig. 5.4(c) are not as coherent as those observed in the 
stack-issued transverse jet shown in Fig. 5.4(a). Besides, when the shear-layer coherent 
structure appears the frequency of the travelling vortices of the stack-issued transverse jet 
presents much larger value than that of the wall-issued transverse jet. The above 
characteristic flow behavior for the wall-issued transverse jet has been observed by Fric 
and Roshko [4] as well.  
Figure 5.5 shows the typical instantaneous flow patterns in the median plane of the 
excited transverse jets as the acoustic excitation is applied at the resonance Strouhal 
number Stres = 0.28. The evolution process of the excited stack-issued transverse jet within 
an excitation period is shown in Figs 5.5(a)-5.5(d). The dimensionless time t* marked on 
the pictures is defined as t* = t/T, where t is the evolving time starting from the beginning 
of an excitation cycle and T is the period of the acoustic excitation cycle. At the beginning 
of the excitation cycle (t* = 0), as shown in Fig. 5.5(a), the jet velocity at the exit of the 
elevated tube starts to increase from the lowest velocity level (as has been shown in Fig. 
5.3(b)). The exit jet column, therefore, starts to tilt upstream because of the increase in the 
29 
 
of the excited wall-issued transverse jet.  
 
5.3 Jet penetration and spread 
The long-exposure images for the stack-issued and wall-issued transverse jets at no 
excitation and at resonance Strouhal number Stres = 0.28 are shown in Fig. 5.7. The white 
area in the image indicates the mixture of smoke jet flow and crossflow. For the 
stack-issued transverse jet, the smoke spreads to the area below the horizontal level across 
the tube tip, as shown in Figs. 5.7(a) and 5.7(c). While in the case of the wall-issued 
transverse jet, as shown in Figs. 5.7(b) and 5.7(d), the smoke dispersion can’t attain the 
levels lower than the jet exit plane due to the blockage of the wall. The penetration height 
and spread width of the excited stack-issued transverse jet (Fig. 5.7(c)) are significantly 
larger than those of the non-excited case (Fig. 5.7(a)). The penetration height and spread 
width of the excited stack-issued transverse jet shown in Fig. 5.7(c) are apparently larger 
than those of the excited wall-issued transverse jets shown in Fig. 5.7(d).   
To quantify the penetration and spread characteristics of the transverse jet, the 
edge-detection technique [30] was utilized to identify the upper and lower boundaries of 
the deflected jet from long-exposure images. With the digitized locations of jet boundaries, 
the penetration height and spread width of the elevated transverse jet were determined. 
Figure 5.8(a) shows the normalized penetration height H/d of the stack-issued transverse 
jet; this normalized penetration height varies with the normalized streamwise distance x/d. 
The jet penetration height H was measured from the level z = 0 up to the identified upper 
boundary of the deflected jet. At no excitation condition, as well as Stres = 0.37 and 0.56, 
the normalized penetration height increases slightly with increasing x/d. At Stres = 0.22, 
0.25, and 0.28, H/d increases faster with the increase of x/d. Stres ≈ 0.3 seems to be a 
critical value below which the penetration height could be increased significantly. 
Reducing the resonance Strouhal number would enhance the jet penetration height; for 
instance, the penetration height at x/d = 20 increases from 6 to 10.7 as Stres decreases from 
0.56 to 0.22. In order to make a comparison between the non-excited and excited 
transverse jets, the penetration height H of the excited stack-issued transverse jet was 
normalized by the penetration height Hn of the non-excited stack-issued transverse jet. The 
results are shown in Fig. 5.8(b). The penetration heights of the stack-issued transverse jet 
excited at resonance frequency are drastically greater than the penetration heights of the 
non-excited stack-issued transverse jet. For instance, the stack-issued transverse jet excited 
at Stres = 0.22 presents a penetration height of about 230% of penetration height of the 
non-excited stack-issued transverse jet at x/d = 20. The normalized penetration height H/d 
of the wall-issued transverse jet is shown in Fig. 5.8(c). Obviously forcing the wall-issued 
jet at resonance condition increases the jet penetration height. The normalized penetration 
height increases with decreasing resonance Strouhal number. Figure 5.8(d) shows the 
penetration height H of the excited wall-issued transverse jet normalized by the penetration 
height Hn of the non-excited transverse jet. The penetration heights of the excited 
wall-issued transverse jet are larger than those of the non-excited wall-issued transverse jet. 
31 
 
3.75d (equivalent to 1.5 cm), while the present study employed a stack tube extruded out of 
the lower wall by 32d (equivalent to 16 cm). A small extrusion of stack tube may be 
subject to the restriction of the lower wall and therefore induces smaller penetration and 
spread.  
In order to study the effect of the jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio on the 
characteristics of the jet penetration and spread, the normalized penetration height H/d and 
spread width W/d for the excited stack-issued and wall-issued transverse jets at various 
jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratios are shown in Fig. 5.10. Figure 5.10 (a) shows that 
the penetration height increases with increasing jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio. At 
low R region, the normalized penetration height of the excited stack-issued transverse jet is 
larger than that of the excited wall-issued transverse jet. As the jet-to-crossflow momentum 
flux ratio is increased to about 10, the penetration height of the excited stack-issued 
transverse is close to that of the excited wall-issued transverse jet. The restriction of the 
wall seems not to significantly influence the penetration of the transverse jet at large 
jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratios. Figure 5.10 (b) shows that the spread width 
increases with increasing jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ratio. The spread width of the 
excited stack-issued transverse jet is close to that of the excited wall-issued transverse jet 
in the near field (x/d = 4). At x/d greater than 4, the spread width of the excited stack-issued 
transverse jet becomes apparently larger than that of the excited wall-issued transverse jet. 
The smaller the jet-to-crossflow momentum flux ration is, the larger the differences 
presents. The difference between the penetration height of stack-issued transverse jet and 
that of the wall-issued one is small at large R because the restriction effect of the wall 
surface on the jet’s penetration is small.  
 
5.4 Dispersion 
Figure 5.11 shows the typical distributions of the measured carbon-monoxide 
concentration (CCO) in the median planes of the non-excited and excited stack-issued 
transverse jets. The tracer gas containing 10% CO in Nitrogen gas was ejected out of the 
tube tip. Therefore the carbon monoxide concentration at the tube exit should be 10%. All 
the carbon-monoxide concentration profiles shown in Fig. 5.11 show that the maximum 
concentration values are located at the latitudes above the jet-exit plane. The maximum 
concentration values gradually decrease to nulls at the altitude higher or lower than the 
levels with the maximum values. The maximum concentration values of the non-excited 
transverse jet at all streamwise stages are apparently higher than those of the excited 
transverse jet, particularly within the distance of x/d < 10. As the jet flow goes downstream, 
the maximum values of the concentration distribution profiles become smaller, and the 
spread width of CO concentration turns wider. It is evident that the CO concentrations of 
the excited transverse jet present much wider distributions in z direction than the CO 
concentrations of the non-excited transverse jet. The increase in the dispersion effect 
induced by the excitation is dramatically significant. 
The jet trajectory was obtained from the locus of maximum CO concentrations. In 
33 
 
CHAPTER 6 
Time-averaged Flow Field Characteristics 
 
6.1 Time-averaged velocity field 
  
6.1.1 Instantaneous particle images and velocity vectors 
Figure 6-1 shows the instantaneous images of the elevated transverse jet at various 
excitation frequencies (excitation Strouhal numbers). The kerosene oil-mist particles were 
seeded in the jet and crossflow. The images were recorded by triggering the CCD camera 
with double-pulsing mode. Figure 6.1 shows the typical instantaneous images in the 
median plane of the elevated transverse jets at various characteristic flow modes. The 
typical instantaneous velocity fields corresponding to the instantaneous images are shown 
in Fig. 6.2. The instantaneous velocity fields were used to calculate the unsteady and 
time-average flow characteristics. For the time-average velocity field measurement, a 
convergence was preliminarily made and showed that over 2000 pairs of double-pulsing 
images provide good agreement. The time-averaged quantities presented in this work are 
averaged taken over 4000 image pairs.  
 
6.1.2 Time-averaged velocity vectors and streamlines 
    Figure 6.3 shows the time-averaged velocity vectors and streamline patterns in the 
near wakes in the median planes of the non-excited and excited transverse jets. The 
measurement points are dense, but in the figures superfluous velocity vectors are removed 
for the clarity of presentation. The streamlines are obtained by using the shooting method. 
In Fig. 6.3(a) for the non-excited transverse jet, reverse flows with very small 
velocities exist in the jet and tube wakes. The streamlines evolved from the leading and 
trailing edges of the jet exit deflected by the crossflow continue to bend from the 
transverse direction to the axial direction and become almost horizontal as x/d > 3. The 
width between the leading-edge and trailing-edge streamlines reduces by increasing the 
axial distance at x/d < 3 and enlarges at x/d > 3. At x/d = 3 the leading-edge and 
trailing-edge streamlines attain attitudes of about z/d ≈ 3.1 and 2.7, respectively. The 
transverse width between these two streamlines at x/d = 3 is therefore approximately 0.4 d, 
which is smaller than the tube diameter. In the wake region beneath the trailing-edge jet 
streamlines, a jet-wake bifurcation line and a tube-wake bifurcation line separated by a 
source point located at (x/d, z/d) = (3.2, -0.6) partitions the wake flow into two parts. The 
jet-wake bifurcation line directs upward, while the tube-wake bifurcation line goes 
downward. From the source point, the streamlines go radially outward. Left of the 
bifurcation lines the flows reverse toward the upstream direction. The magnitudes of 
velocity vectors within the reverse flow region are significantly smaller than those in the 
jet and crossflow. In the region right of the bifurcation lines, the flows go to the 
downstream area. The streamlines in the region near the lee side of the exiting jet turn up 
because of the up-shear effect of the up-shooting jet, go rightward by the shear of the bent 
35 
 
rightward velocity vectors induced by up-shear effect of the jet are observed. Therefore the 
jet-bifurcation line disappears and the source point appears at the location very near the lee 
side of the tube tip. When subject to the influence of the acoustic excitation, the transverse 
vortex ring existing in the non-excited transverse jet is ―stretched off‖ by the pulsating 
motion of the exiting jet and the oscillation motion of the bent jet. The larger the pulsation 
velocity is, the stronger the stretching effect. This can be observed particularly by 
comparing the magnitudes of the velocity vectors in Figs. 6.3(a) and (c). In the near wake 
region, the magnitudes of the velocity vectors in the excited transverse jet shown in Fig. 
6.3(c) are significantly larger than those of the non-excited transverse jet shown in Fig. 
6.3(a). The tube-wake bifurcation lines of the excited transverse jets shown in Figs. 6.3(b) 
and (c) are located at x/d ≈ 2.7, while that of the non-excited transverse jet shown in Fig. 
6.3(a) is located at x/d ≈ 3.7. The recirculation zone in the tube wake of the excited 
transverse jet is smaller than that of the non-excited one. These results coincide with the 
argument of Gogineni et al. [18], which states that when the jet is excited, the low-velocity 
domain in the wake of the jet is substantially reduced through vigorous mixing. 
Figure 6.3(d) shows the time-averaged velocity vectors and streamlines in the median 
plane of the excited transverse jet in the synchronized shear-layer vortices mode. Since the 
exited jet does not flap and the deflected jet does not oscillate appreciably under this 
situation, as illustrated in Fig. 3.9 (a), the stretching effect of the jet pulsating motion does 
not apply significantly. Therefore, the features of flow pattern (transverse vortex ring, 
source point, jet-wake bifurcation line, and tube-wake bifurcation line) shown Fig. 6.3(d) 
look quite similar to those of the natural transverse jet shown in Fig. 6.3(a). However, since 
the jet pulsations may still exist, although it is relatively small when compared with that of 
the synchronized flapping jet mode, several differences in the streamline patterns appear 
between Figs. 6.3(a) and (d). The vortex ring in the excited transverse jet (Fig. 6.3(d)) 
rotates clockwise and is located in the tube wake, while in the non-excited transverse jet 
(Fig. 6.3(a)) the vortex ring rotates in the counterclockwise sense and is located in the jet 
wake. In the non-excited transverse jet the saddle point is located near the tube tip and left 
of the jet-wake vortex ring, while in the excited transverse jet the saddle point is located 
above the tube-wake vortex ring. Besides this, the jet and wake bifurcation lines in the 
excited transverse jet in the synchronized shear-layer vortices mode are located at x/d ≈ 3, 
which make the jet and tube wakes smaller than those of the non-excited transverse jet, but 
larger than those of the excited transverse jet in the synchronized flapping jet mode. That is 
to say, pulsations of the transverse jet reduce the sizes of the jet wake and tube wake, no 
matter whether it is in the synchronized flapping jet mode or the synchronized shear-layer 
vortices mode. The larger the jet pulsation is, the more apparent the effect in reducing the 
bubble size of the wake. 
 
6.1.3 Velocity distributions 
    The time-averaged normalized axial velocity distributions wuu /  in the median plane 
37 
 
in Fig. 6.4(d), the peak axial velocity disappears. The magnitudes of the axial velocities in 
the jet wake and tube wake all increase. 
Figure 6.5 shows the time-averaged normalized transverse velocity distributions 
juw /  in the median plane at various axial stages of the non-excited transverse jet. At x/d 
= 1.4, a peak velocity appears at z/d = 2.4, which is located in the bent jet enclosed 
between the streamlines evolved from the leading and trailing edges of the jet exit, as 
shown in Fig. 6.3(a). The peak value of juw /  is about 0.95, which is smaller than unity 
because the jet is deflected by the impingement of the crossflow. At the stage x/d = 3.2, the 
jet almost turns over and the peak transverse velocity juw /  decreases to a smaller value 
about 0.45. In other words, at the stages x/d = 1.4 and 3.2, part of the jet momentum in z 
direction emerged from the jet exit is transferred to the axial direction and exhibits as the 
peaks shown in Figs. 6.4(b) and (c). At the stage x/d =3.2 (Fig. 6.5(b)), the transverse 
velocity juw /  at the source point (denoted by the symbol S) becomes zero. The 
transverse velocities in the region above the source point are positive, while those in the 
region below the source point exhibit negative values. This phenomenon can be observed 
in Fig. 6.3(a) because at the stage x/d = 3.2 the velocity vectors above the source point go 
upward and vice verse in the region below the source point. After the jet is bent over at x/d 
> 3, the peak transverse velocity juw /  almost disappears, as shown at the axial stages x/d 
= 5 and 8 in Figs. 6.5(c) and (d), respectively. The transverse velocities in the jet wake 
(denoted by the symbol JW) are positive and those in the tube wake (denoted by TW) are 
negative.  
Figure 6.6 shows the normalized time-averaged axial velocity distributions wuu /  of 
the excited elevated transverse jet at various axial stages. At x/d = 1, as shown in Fig. 
6.6(a), wuu /  presents values of unity at z/d > 5.6 since the jet does not affect the far 
upper region of the crossflow. The value of wuu /  subsequently increases with decreasing 
z/d as z/d < 4.6 and attains a maximum of 1.1 at z/d = 3.6. Below z/d = 3.6, wuu /  
decreases. A large axial velocity region with a hump in the wuu /  profile exits between z/d 
= 2 and 4.6. Since the time-averaged leading-edge streamline is severely deflected by the 
crossflow in the near jet-exit region (Fig. 6.3(c)), the flow in the region right above the 
leading-edge streamline may fetch energy from the jet pulsations and therefore accelerates 
around the jet-bending area. In the jet wake above the source point (denoted by the symbol 
39 
 
bifurcation lines go upstream, and the flows in the region right of the bifurcation lines go 
downstream, the bifurcation lines exhibit the loci of the stagnation points of the 
recirculation zones. These are formed as the crossflow goes across the up-shooting jet 
column and the tube. Both the axial and transverse turbulence intensities around the area 
across the bifurcation lines therefore exhibit relatively large values. 
The axial turbulence intensity contours of the excited transverse jet in the 
synchronized flapping jet mode shown in Fig. 6.8(c) present high values in a large area. 
The values of juu /'
2
 may attain up to about 80% within the area 1 < x/d < 3 and 1 < z/d 
< 2.5, which is located just beneath the bent streamline evolved from the trailing edge of 
the tube exit. The area crossing the tube-wake bifurcation line (Fig. 6.3(b)) has large axial 
turbulence intensity of up to about 35%. The transverse turbulence intensity contours 
juw /'
2  shown in Fig. 6.8(d) present values larger than 90% in an area near the jet exit. 
Both the axial and transverse turbulence intensities present large values within large areas 
covering the jet, jet wake, and tube wake when compared with those in the non-excited 
transverse jet shown in Figs. 6.8(a) and (b). As the transverse jet is excited at the resonance 
Strouhal number, as shown in Figs. 6.8(e) and (f), the enhancement of both the axial and 
transverse turbulence intensities is more significant. Large jet pulsations induce very large 
axial turbulence intensities of up to about 85% within the area covering the lee side of the 
exiting jet and the near-jet wake. The large jet pulsations also induce very large transverse 
turbulence intensities higher than 90% within the area covering the upwind side of the 
exiting jet column and the impingement region of crossflow on the exiting jet column. 
Both the axial and transverse turbulence intensities of the transverse jet excited at the 
resonance Strouhal number (shown in Figs. 6.8(e) and (f)) present large values within the 
areas covering the jet, jet wake, and tube wake. Both the magnitudes and areas of large 
turbulence intensities at the resonance condition shown in Figs. 6.8(e) and (f) are larger 
than those at off-resonance condition shown in Figs. 6.8(c) and (d), and are drastically 
larger than those of the non-excited transverse jet shown in Figs. 6.8(a) and (b). 
The axial and transverse turbulence intensity contours of the excited transverse jet in 
the synchronized shear-layer vortices mode shown in Figs. 6.8(g) and (h) exhibit similar 
patterns to those of the non-excited transverse jet shown in Figs. 6.8(a) and (b). In these 
two cases, the areas exhibiting large values of turbulence intensities and the values 
themselves do not present significant differences. 
Figure 6.9(a) shows the vorticity contours in the median planes of the non-excited 
transverse jet. Three distinct regions present large concentrations of vorticity—upwind part 
of exiting jet, lee-side part of exiting jet, and jet wake. Positive large vorticity values of up 
to about 1200 s-1 appear on the upwind part of the exiting jet, while negative large 
vorticity values of up to -1600 s-1 exhibit on the lee-side part of the exiting jet. In the jet 
wake, positive median-large vorticity values of around 300 s-1 occupy a large area 
covering the reverse flow region. In the near-tube wake, the vorticities are relatively small. 
41 
 
streamlines evolved from the jet exit. The symbols Su, Sc, and Sl marked in the horizontal 
axis respectively, denote the distances measured from the leading edge, center point, and 
trailing edge of the jet exit along the streamlines. Along the streamlines evolved from the 
leading edge (Fig. 6.11(a)) and the center point (Fig. 6.11(b)) of the jet exit, juu /'
2
 of 
the non-excited transverse jet increases from low values gradually with the increase of the 
streamline distance Su and Sc, attains maximum values of about 20 - 30%, then decreases 
slowly. The axial turbulence intensities of the excited transverse jets in the transition and 
synchronized shear-layer vortices modes present larger values (up to about 30% to 40%) in 
the near field. Exciting the transverse jet in the transition and synchronized shear-layer 
vortices modes, although it does not apparently alter the time-averaged jet trajectories as 
seen in Fig. 6.10, can increase the velocity fluctuations in the near field due to the jet 
pulsations. Along the streamlines evolved from the leading edge and center point of the jet 
exit, the axial turbulence intensity of the excited transverse jet in the synchronized flapping 
jet mode presents relatively high values of up to about 60% in the near field. The axial 
turbulence intensities of the transverse jet excited at the resonance Strouhal number attains 
notably high values and decreases slowly with the increase of the streamline distance Su 
and Sc. Large normal turbulence fluctuations generated by the jet pulsations at the 
resonance Strouhal number can persist far downstream before being dissipated by the 
viscous effect. Along the streamlines evolved from the trailing edge of the jet exit, as 
shown in Fig. 6.11(c), the axial turbulence intensities present similar behavior to those 
along the streamlines evolved from the leading edge and center point of the jet exit. 
However, juu /'
2
 along the streamline evolved from the trailing edge of the jet exit 
shown in Fig. 6.11(c) presents values larger by about 10% than those evolved from the 
leading edge and center point of the jet exit, as shown in Figs. 6.11(a) and (b). 
Figure 6.12 shows the transverse turbulence intensity juw /'
2
 along the streamlines 
evolved from the jet exit. The general behavior of juw /'
2
 is similar to that of juu /'
2
. 
However, juw /'
2
 of the excited jets in the synchronized flapping jet mode along the 
streamlines evolved from the leading edge and center point of the jet exit can attain 
maximum values of about 80% in the near field, which is about 15% higher than juu /'
2
 
of the same cases. The jet pulsations in the transverse direction induce a flapping motion of 
the jet near the tube exit and therefore cause the drastically large values of the turbulence 
intensities. Along the streamlines evolved from the trailing edge of the jet exit, as seen in 
Fig. 6.12(c), the magnitudes of juw /'
2
 present values smaller by about 10% than their 
counterparts of juu /'
2
 shown in Fig. 6.11(c). 
43 
 
zero-crossing of the autocorrelation coefficient denotes the statistical time scale of the 
turbulence fluctuations. The period (16.7 ms) of the periodic wave forms corresponds to 
the period of the instantaneous velocity signals similar to that shown in Fig. 3.9(a) i.e. the 
period of the excitation signals.  
The Lagrangian integral time scale [40-42] of the turbulent fluctuation velocity can be 
calculated by equating a rectangular area to the area under the autocorrelation curve from τ 
= 0 to the first zero-crossing, as indicated by the arrows shown in Fig. 6.14. It is roughly an 
artificial measure of the statistical time interval that the large-scale turbulent eddies may 
have [39]. Although the Lagrangian integral time scale is an artificial definition instead of 
a physical quantity, this time scale provides an estimate for the comparative basis of time 
scales of turbulence-fluctuating eddies. The Lagrangian integral time scales τu of the axial 
turbulent fluctuation velocities along the streamline evolved from the center point of the jet 
exit are shown in Fig. 6.15(a). All axial integral time scales increase as the flows go 
downstream. In the range Sc/d smaller than about 2.4, the integral time scales of the axial 
turbulent fluctuation velocities of the non-excited transverse jet coincide with those of the 
transverse jets excited in the transition and synchronized shear-layer vortices modes. At 
Sc/d greater than about 2.4, τu of the transverse jets excited in the transition and 
synchronized shear-layer vortices modes keep increasing quickly along the increasing Sc/d 
until Sc/d ≈ 6.6, then decrease slowly as Sc/d keeps increasing. The increase rate of the τu of 
the non-excited transverse jet apparently reduces at Sc/d > 2.4. Examining Fig. 6.3(a) 
reveals that the jet is almost bent over at Sc/d ≈ 2.4. After bending over, the axial integral 
time scales of the non-excited transverse jet enlarge slowly by increasing the axial distance. 
The axial integral time scales of the transverse jet excited in the synchronized flapping 
mode at the off-resonance condition present larges values. The up-down motions of the 
bent jet induce low frequency oscillation and may therefore cause larger time scales. The 
axial integral time scales of the transverse jet excited at the resonance Strouhal number 
exhibit very small values. At Sc/d ≈ 2.4, it is only about 0.1 ms. Large pulsations cause 
strong effects of vortex stretching and eddy break-up, leading to such small integral time 
scales. For the integral time scales w of transverse turbulent fluctuating velocities shown 
in Fig. 6.15(b), w of the transverse jet excited in the synchronized flapping jet mode at the 
off-resonance condition presents the largest values of all. The up-down oscillating motions 
of the bent jet induce large transverse turbulent time scales. In the near field, w of the 
transverse jet excited at the resonance Strouhal number still exhibits the smallest values.  
Taylor’s frozen flow field hypothesis [43] can be applied to the Lagrangian integral 
time scales to estimate the integral length scales of the turbulent eddies in the turbulent 
flow. Taylor’s hypothesis assumes that the time derivatives of flow properties can be 
obtained approximately from 
i
i x
u
t ∂
∂
=
∂
∂
, in which t denotes the time, xi represents the 
spatial coordinate in the i direction, and iu  is the time-averaged local velocity component 
45 
 
path similar to that of the non-excited stack-issued jet and to that of the wall-issued 
transverse jet, except for the case in which forcing was applied at the resonance frequency. 
This characteristic is consistent with the jet concentration trajectories, which is mentioned 
in Fig. 3.18. Figure 6.18(b) shows that the velocity trajectory of the excited transverse jet 
has deeper penetration than that of the non-excited transverse jet. In the excited cases, the 
trajectory of the transverse jet excited at synchronized flapping jet mode appears higher 
than that at synchronized shear-layer vortices mode. In the synchronized flapping jet mode, 
the excited transverse jet under resonance condition locates at the highest altitude. 
 
47 
 
oscillation and puff appearances. Lagrangian integral time and length scales of the 
transverse jet excited at the resonance Strouhal number were drastically smaller than those 
of the non-excited one and the transverse jets excited at the off-resonance condition. 
 
7.2 Recommendations 
The present work demonstrates that the characteristic flow behaviors of the transverse 
jet are modulated by the acoustic excitation. As the transverse jet is excited at synchronized 
flapping jet mode, the mixing characteristic of the transverse jet are significantly increased. 
Fully modulating a combusting jet in the crossflow by acoustic excitation method can 
drastically modify the flame behavior, time-averaged flow field, temperature field, and the 
concentration characteristic. It is therefore recommended to investigate the combustion 
aerodynamic of a combusting jet in crossflow can be investigated in the future work.  
 
 
49 
 
[17] Shapiro, S. R., King, J., M’Closkey, R. T., and Karagozian, A. R., ―Optimization 
of Controlled Jets in Crossflow,‖ AIAA Journal, Vol. 44, No. 6, 2006, pp. 
1292-1298. 
[18] Gogineni, S., Goss, L., and Roquemore, M., ―Manipulation of a Jet in a Cross 
Flow,‖ Experimental Thermal and Fluid Science, Vol. 16, 1998, pp. 209-219. 
[19] Chang, Y. K. and Vakili, A. D., ―Dynamics of Vortex Rings in Crossflow,‖ Physics 
of Fluids, Vol. 7, No. 7, 1995, pp. 1583-1597. 
[20] Hermanson, J. C., Wahba, A., and Johari, H., ―Duty-Cycle Effects on Penetration 
of Fully Modulated, Turbulent Jet in Crossflow,‖ AIAA Journal, Vol. 36, No. 10, 
1998, pp. 1935-1937. 
[21] Johari, H., Pacheco-Tougas, M., and Hermanson, J. C., ―Penetration and Mixing 
of Fully Modulated Turbulent Jets in Crossflow,‖ AIAA Journal, Vol. 37, Vo. 7, 
1999, pp. 842-850. 
[22] Eroglu, A. and Breidenthal R. E., ―Structure, Penetration, and Mixing of Pulsed 
Jet in Crossflow,‖ AIAA Journal, Vol. 39, No. 3, 2001, pp. 417-423. 
[23] Johari, H., ―Scaling of Fully Pulsed Jets in Crossflow,‖ AIAA Journal, Vol. 44, No. 
11, 2006, pp. 2719-2725. 
[24] Megerian, S., Davitian, J., Alves, L. S. de B., and Karagozian, A. R., 
―Transverse-Jet Shear-Layer Instabilities. Part 1. Experimental Studies,‖ Journal 
of Fluid Mechanics, Vol. 593, 2007, pp. 93-129.  
[25] Davitian, J., Hendrickson, C., Getsinger, D., M’Closkey, R. T., and Karagozian, A. 
R., ―Strategic Control of Transverse Jet Shear Layer Instabilities,‖ AIAA Journal, 
Vol. 48, No. 9, 2010, pp. 2145-2156. 
[26] Ginversky, A. S., Valsov, Y. V., and Karavosov, R. K., Acoustic Control of 
Turbulent Jet, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 2004. 
[27] Shames, I. H., Mechanics of Fluid, Third ed., McGraw-Hill, Singapore, 1992. 
[28] Flagan, R. C. and Seinfield, J. H., Fundamentals of Air Pollution Engineering, 
Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1988, pp. 290-357. 
[29] Mie, R., ―Velocity Fidelity of Flow Tracer Particles,‖ Experiments in Fluids, Vol. 
22, 1996, pp. 1-13. 
[30] Shapiro, L. G. and Stockman, G. C., Computer Vision, Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle 
River, New Jersey, 2001.  
[31] Anchini, R., Liguori, C., and Paolillo, A., ―Evaluation of Uncertainty of 
Edge-Detector Algorithms,‖ IEEE Transaction on Instrumentation and 
Measurement, Vol. 56, No. 3, 2007, pp. 681-688. 
[32] Keane, R. D. and Adrian, R. J., ―Theory of Cross-correlation Analysis of PIV 
Images,‖ Applied Scientific Research, Vol. 49, No. 3, 1992, pp. 191-215. 
[33] Keane, R. D. and Adrian, R. J., ―Optimization of Particle Image Velocimeters Part 
I: Double Pulsed Systems,‖ Measurement Science and Technology, Vol. 1, No. 11, 
1990, pp. 1202-1215. 
[34] Huang, R. F. and Chang, K. T., ―Evolution and Turbulence Properties of 
51 
 
 
Physic properties of kerosene oil-mist particle  
Particle diameter (Dp) 4.7±0.2 μm 
Particle density (ρp) 5.31 kg/m
3
 
Physic properties of air (Patm = 1 atm, Tamb = 298 K,) 
Density (ρ) 1.18 kg/m3 
Dynamic viscosity (ν) 1.83810-5 N-s/m2 
Mean free path (λ) 0.065 μm 
Calculated aerosol properties (Velocity range : 0.5－12 m/s) 
Knudsen number (Kn) 0.027 
Slip correction factor (Cc) 1.034 
Relaxation time (τ) 3.80810-7 sec. 
Terminal settling velocity (vt) 3.732×10
-6
 m/s 
Stopping distance (xs) 3.808×10
-7－4.570×10-6 m 
Stokes number (Stk) 
(at characteristic length of 5mm) 
9.139×10
-4－7.616×10-5 
Table 2.1 Characteristics of kerosene oil-mist particles 
 
53 
 
 
 
 
IDT X-stream XS-4 
high-speed digital imaging system specifications 
Pixel depth 10 bits (8 bits output) 
Pixel size 1616 micron 
Resolution 512H×512V pixels 
Center to center spacing 16 micron 
Dynamic range 59 dB 
Trigger modes 
Internal (continuous);        
External (edge-low, edge-high, pulse 
low and pulse high);  
Pulse train and single pulse burst 
Memory configuration 2 GB 
Minimum inter-frame rate 100 ns 
Digital interface 
Plug-and-play with real time preview, 
USB-2.0 (480 Mbps) 
Trigger and synchronization 
CMOSE level (3.3V) via BNC 
connector 
Optical interface 
Standard: C-mount 
C to F and cannon converters available 
Image resolution 
512H×512V 
512H×256V 
512H×128V 
512H×64V 
512H×32V 
512H×16V 
512H×8V 
512H×4V 
Max frame rate [Hz] 
5,145 
10,241 
20,288 
39,822 
76,790 
143,307 
252,794 
409,053 
 
Table 2.3 Specifications of high-speed CCD camera 
 
55 
 
 
F
ig
. 
2
.1
 A
rr
an
g
em
en
t 
o
f 
ex
p
er
im
en
ta
l 
se
tu
p
 f
o
r 
st
ac
k
-i
ss
u
ed
 t
ra
n
sv
er
se
 j
et
. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
     Fig. 2.3 Smoke flow generator. 
 
59 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.1 Wave forms of flow velocity at jet exit responding to acoustic excitation 
signals. Rej = 1000.
61 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.3 Pictures in median plane of non-excited elevated transverse jet. R = 1.2, Rej = 
1000. Exposure time: 1/10000 s. (a) upwind shear-layer vortices appear, (b) upwind 
shear-layer vortices disappear.
63 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.5 Variation of axial length of first oscillation wave of synchronized flapping jet 
with excitation Strouhal number. Rej = 1000.
65 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.7 Instantaneous flow pattern evolution in median plane of excited elevated 
transverse jet. Transition mode: R = 1.2, Rej = 1000, Stexc = 0.67. Exposure time: 
1/10000 s.
67 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.9 Velocity histories of jet instabilities in near field as acoustic excitation 
applied. (a) synchronized flapping jet excited at off-resonance frequency, (b) 
synchronized swinging jet excited at resonance frequency, (c) transition, (d) 
synchronized shear-layer vortices. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000.
69 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.11 Instability frequencies (a) and turbulence intensities (b) in different 
characteristic flow modes. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000.
71 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.13 Long-exposure pictures of elevated transverse jet. Rej = 1000. Exposure 
time: 2 s.
73 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.15 Carbon-monoxide concentration distributions at various axial stages. Upper 
row: no excitation; middle row: synchronized flapping jet excited at resonance 
frequency; lower row: synchronized shear-layer vortices. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000.
75 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.17 Upper and lower boundaries as well as jet trajectories of elevated transverse 
jet. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000. (a) no excitation, (b) synchronized flapping jet excited at 
off-resonance frequency, (c) synchronized swinging jet excited at resonance frequency, 
(d) transition. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000.
77 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4.1 Velocity histories of jet at tube exit. fexc = 275 Hz, Rew = 0.
79 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4.3 Instantaneous flow pattern of evolution (puff mode) in median plane of 
pulsed elevated transverse jet. fexc = 275 Hz, R = 0.25, Rew = 2100. Exposure time: 
1/10000 s.
81 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4.5 Characteristic flow modes of pulsed elevated transverse jet at fexc = 275 Hz. 
Symbols (empty and filled circles) denote conditions of experimental observations 
were performed.
83 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4.7 Normalized penetration height (a) and spread width (b) of pulsed elevated 
transverse jet at x/d = 15. fexc = 275 Hz.
85 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4.9 Carbon monoxide concentration distributions of pulsed transverse jet 
measured at x/d = 15. R = 0.25, fexc = 275 Hz.
87 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.1 Response characteristics of pulsed jet at zero-crossflow condition. Rej = 2000. 
(a) sound-pressure-level, (b) amplitude of jet velocity pulsation.
89 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.3 Variations of excitation voltage and pulsation jet velocity at zero-crossflow 
condition. Rej = 2000. (a) acoustical excitation signal, (b) jet velocity oscillation at 
tube exit.
91 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.5 Instantaneous flow patterns evolution of excited transverse jets in median 
plane. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000, Stres = 0.28. Exposure time: 1/10000 s. (a)-(d) excited 
stack-issued transverse jet, (e)-(h) excited wall-issued transverse jet.
93 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.7 Long-exposure flow patterns of the transverse jets. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000. 
Exposure time:  2 s.
95 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.9 Normalized spread width. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000.
97 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.11 Carbon monoxide concentration distributions at various axial stages.
99 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.13 Variation of maximum carbon monoxide concentration with streamwise 
distance. R = 1.4, Rej = 2000.
101 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.15 Variation of maximum carbon monoxide concentration with Stres at x/d = 20. 
R = 1.4, Rej = 2000.
103 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.2 Instantaneous velocity vectors and streamlines of the non-excited and excited 
transverse jets at R = 1.2 and Rej = 1000.
105 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.4 Transverse distributions of normalized time-averaged axial velocity wuu /  
of non-excited elevated transverse jet. R = 1.2, Rej = 1000.
107 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.6 Transverse distributions of normalized time-averaged axial velocity wuu /  
of excited elevated transverse jet. Stexc = 0.45, R = 1.2, Rej = 1000.
109 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.8 Turbulence intensity contours in symmetry plane. (a,c,e,g) axial turbulence 
intensities, (b,d,f,h) transverse turbulence intensities.
111 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.10 Streamlines of non-excited and excited transverse jets. Rej = 1000 and R = 
1.2. (a) streamlines evolved from leading-edge of jet exit, (b) streamlines evolved 
from center point of jet exit, (c) streamlines evolved from trailing-edge of jet exit.
113 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.12 Transverse turbulence intensity distributions of non-excited and excited 
transverse jets along streamlines evolved from jet exit. Rej = 1000 and R = 1.2.
115 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.14 Correlation coefficients of axial and transverse velocity fluctuations of 
non-excited (a,b) and excited (c,d) transverse jets. Rej = 1000 and R = 1.2. (a,b) 
measured at (x/d, z/d) = (2.0, 2.9); (c,d) measured at (x/d, z/d) = (2.0, 2.5). 
 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.16 Lagrangian integral length scale distributions of axial and transverse 
velocity fluctuations of non-excited and excited transverse jets along streamline 
evolved from center point of jet exit. Rej = 1000 and R = 1.2.
119 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.18 Centerline and velocity trajectories. 
 
參加國際研討會報告 
Mechanical Engineering International Conference (MEIC-4) 
USC Talamban, Cebu City, Philippines 
January 12-14, 2011 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-011-133-MY3 
執行期限：99年 8月 1日至 100年 7月 31日 
主持人：黃榮芳   國立台灣科技大學機械工程系 
 
I attended the “Mechanical Engineering International Confernce” (MEIC-4), 
which was held in USC Talamban, Cebu City, Philippines. The MEIC-4 is an 
international conference held for researchers on Thermal Science and Fluid Mechanics, 
Energy Technology, and Laboratory Ventilation. It is a conference which posses 
tradition. It was organized by the Mechanical Engineering Association of Philippines 
and University of San Carlos. There were 83 technical papers presented in the 
conference this year. Totally about 200 people from more than 25 countries attended 
this event. I was a keynot speaker and presented two papers: “Manipulating tumble 
and swirl flows in cylinder of a four-vale engine by inlet deflection valve” and “Fume 
hood—traditional and future.” Except for the presentation, I also attended several 
sessions of the conference to get ideas for the future research. For example, in the 
session of Renewable Energy, I received more information regarding recent progress of 
method for energy composition. I met several scholars from Australia, Japan, Korea, 
Switzerland, England, and Philippines and exchanged opinions with them. The 
dialogues between me and the scholars from the other countries inspired me several new 
ideas for the future studies. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 受聲波激擾之燃燒噴流在側風衝擊下的動態特性與控制
計畫主持人: 黃榮芳
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-011-133-MY3 學門領域: 航太科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
以此技術幫助發展出推挽式氣簾及氣櫃產品. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
