device)，來掌握即時、多維度與大量資訊背後所代表的意
涵，並能更有效率地從眾多的蛛絲馬跡中拼湊出隱藏其中的
真實。 
 
雛形平台與系統影音簡介請參考: 
http://eln.iis.sinica.edu.tw 
 
中文關鍵詞： 實驗室電子記錄本、web 2.0、開放源碼、雲端分享 
英 文 摘 要 ： With more and more outputs generated with digital 
deluge from high throughput biology, a platform for 
knowledge repository with the functions like search, 
backup, reconstruction will be an important issue in 
current laboratories for daily records.  
 
The essentials inside ELN will be included simple 
installation with few clicks, note creating with 
attached experimental digital outputs, full text 
search with image gallery, succinct user management 
with digital signature, automatic system backup, 
calendar with coming event notification, personalized 
interface with privacy, data sharing and exchange via 
web, duplication and backup of whole ELN, high 
availability on function extension, and all the 
features existed in web 2.0. Here, under the support 
of NSC since Aug, 2009, we have implemented a draft 
of ELN, which can satisfy the needs above and be 
installed on windows platform for personal and small 
group use. This prototype enables scientists without 
profound computer skills to build the electronic 
laboratory records quickly, sort notes and compare 
results and share information to others without the 
physical limitation. Based on drupal and well-chosen 
modules, an open source content management system, we 
exploited apache, mySQL, php, Java and Ajax to 
construct web-based ELN for various operation systems 
like Linux, Windows, Mac.  
 
A further ambitious goal of this ELN project is to 
help bench scientists managing and sharing wisdom 
generated from their hard works without driving their 
mind in dealing with computer. Our team starts to 
 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
建構以開放源碼為基礎的實驗室電子紀錄本 
Electronic Laboratory Notebook (openELN) in openSource 
 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2628-E-001-016 
執行期間： 2010/08/01 ~ 2011/10/31 
 
執行機構及系所：中央研究院資訊科學研究所 
 
計畫主持人：林仲彥 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：林宜靜 黃智偉 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 101   年  1  月  20  日 
附件一 
 4
（二）計畫英文摘要。（五百字以內） 
 
For a long time, scientists used pens and glues to record their findings, musing, ideas and inference 
in paper-bound laboratory notebook. This old fashion is lasted even in the 21st centuries. However, the 
hand-writing, paper-based recording way is not competent to keep data in increasing volumes and 
complexity, and is hard to make data sharing in a cooperating project among various disciplines and 
research communities. With more and more outputs generated with digital deluge from high throughput 
biology, a platform for knowledge repository with the functions like search, backup, reconstruction will be 
an important issue in current laboratories for daily records.  
In our conception, electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) should not only help scientists to put 
everything as records, but also raise the possibility for new discoveries and problem solving, which may 
have significantly increased the competitiveness of whole research team. Although there are some ELNs 
available on market and public domain, the interfaces and prices of these ELNs are not so friendly with 
shape learning curve. The essentials inside ELN will be included simple installation with few clicks, note 
creating with attached experimental digital outputs, full text search with image gallery, succinct user 
management with digital signature, automatic system backup, calendar with coming event notification, 
personalized interface with privacy, data sharing and exchange via web, duplication and backup of whole 
ELN, high availability on function extension, and all the features existed in web 2.0. Here, under the 
support of NSC since Aug, 2009, we have implemented a draft of ELN, which can satisfy the needs 
above and be installed on windows platform for personal and small group use. This prototype enables 
scientists without profound computer skills to build the electronic laboratory records quickly, sort 
notes and compare results and share information to others without the physical limitation. Based on 
drupal and well-chosen modules, an open source content management system, we exploited apache, 
mySQL, php, Java and Ajax to construct web-based ELN for various operation systems like Linux, 
Windows, Mac.  
Currently we have developed our first version of web-based ELN which can be installed in 
Linux-based and windows-based environment. The present window version ELN is optimized and can be 
easily deployed on most available PCs without high hardware and IT-support requirement. Thus, it can be 
 6
 (三)報告內容：包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含結論與建議）…等。 
Brief of our research 
For a long time, scientists used pens and glues to record their findings, musing, ideas and inference in 
paper-bound laboratory notebook. This old fashion is lasted even in the 21st centuries. However, the 
hand-writing, paper-based recording way is not competent to keep data in increasing volumes and 
complexity, and is hard to coordinate data sharing in a cooperating project among various disciplines and 
research communities. With more and more outputs generated with digital deluge, a platform for knowledge 
repository with the functions like search, backup, reconstruction will be an important issue in current 
laboratories for daily records.  
In our conception, electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) should not only help scientists to put everything as 
records, but also raise the possibility for new discoveries and problem solving, which may have significantly 
increased the competitiveness of whole research team. The mediation issue becomes more urgent, because 
new ways to construct the objects of research out of the combination of new and old data are key motifs in 
the frontier. Data sharing also promises to enable the tackling of old questions in new ways in fields as 
diverse as epidemiology, systems biology, world history, archeology, cognitive sciences, and language 
evolution. (Wouters et. al, 2008)  Although there are some ELNs available on market and public domain, 
the interfaces and prices of these ELNs are not so friendly with shape learning curve. The essential functions 
inside ELN will be included simple installation with few clicks, note creating with attached experimental 
digital outputs, full text search with image gallery, succinct user management with digital signature, 
automatic system backup, calendar with coming event notification, personalized interface with privacy, data 
sharing and exchange via web, duplication and backup of whole ELN, high availability on function 
extension, and all the features existed in web 2.0 (Figure 1). 
 
Figure 1. Digitize our research outputs for mining without the spatiotemporal limitation. 
 
 
 8
friendlier and fit the need of researchers from worldwide. The flash demonstrations for installation, 
user management, backup and migration can be accessed in our website, 
http://eln.iis.sinica.edu.tw. And the new version for cloud is under development (Figure 3) for 
research community under the support by Microsoft global cloud research project from Oct. 2011- 
Oct. 2013.  
 
Figure 2. The infrastructure of ELN with essential functions. 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Migrate accumulated wisdom in lab to Cloud for research community 
 
2. Select	and	develop	modules	for	test	and	refinement	 	 	
We have started to construct ELN with essential functions like friendly interface, full text search, 
backup, user management, security and digital signature, etc. Some basic modules can be found in 
drupal community with minor modifications to fit the need of ELN. All the modules modified and 
created by our group will be followed the rules of drupal module protocol (Figure 2, essential 
 10
 
 
In brief, we believe the ELN developed by our team will really help research community on supporting 
interventions, sharing information, re-organizing knowledge, and manifesting actual laboratory works. On 
the contrary, the feedbacks from users will evoke new developments on IT issues requested by emerging 
massive experimental results.  
 
 
Reference 
 
1. Blaschke, C., Yeh, A., Camon, E., Colosimo, M., Apweiler, R., Hirschman, L. and Valencia, A. (2005) 
Do you do text? Bioinformatics, 21, 4199-4200. 
2. Butler, D. (2005) Electronic notebooks: A new leaf. Nature, 436, 20-21. 
3. Hunter, P. (2005) Laptop biology. As mathematics and computation increasingly invade laboratories, 
biologists need to master new skills. EMBO Rep, 6, 208-210. 
4. Kihlen, M. (2005) Electronic lab notebooks - do they work in reality? Drug Discov Today, 10, 
1205-1207. 
5. Myers, J.D., Arp, C.E., Talbott, T. and Peterson, M. (2005) From collaboration tool to semantic 
e-record: The evolving role of the Electronic Laboratory Notebook (ELN). Abstracts of Papers of the 
American Chemical Society, 230, U1029-U1030. 
6. Prilusky, J., Oueillet, E., Ulryck, N., Pajon, A., Bernauer, J., Krimm, I., Quevillon-Cheruel, S., Leulliot, 
N., Graille, M., Liger, D. et al. (2005) HalX: an open-source LIMS (Laboratory Information 
Management System) for small- to large-scale laboratories. Acta Crystallographica Section 
D-Biological Crystallography, 61, 671-678. 
7. Rabin, R. and Pastorius, E. (2005) Electronic laboratory notebook systems. Genetic Engineering News, 
25, 30-30. 
8. Rousay, E.R., Fu, H.C., Robinson, J.M., Essex, J.W. and Frey, J.G. (2005) Grid-based dynamic 
electronic publication: a case study using combined experiment and simulation studies of crown ethers 
at the air/water interface. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society a-Mathematical Physical 
and Engineering Sciences, 363, 2075-2095. 
9. Scoffin, R. (2006) The new wave in Electronic Laboratory Notebook systems. Chemical Biology & 
Drug Design, 67, 184-185. 
10. Taylor, K.T. (2006) The status of electronic laboratory notebooks for chemistry and biology. Current 
Opinion in Drug Discovery & Development, 9, 348-353. 
11. van Eikeren, P. (2004) Intelligent electronic laboratory notebooks for accelerated organic process R&D. 
Organic Process Research & Development, 8, 1015-1023. 
 
 12
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：   年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱： 
計畫主持人：         
計畫編號：             領域： 
研發成果名稱 
（中文） 
（英文） 
成果歸屬機構  發明人 (創作人) 
 
技術說明 
（中文） 
 
 
 
（200-500 字） 
（英文） 
產業別 
 
技術/產品應用範圍 
 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 
 
 附件四 
 14
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、國外(大陸)研究過程 
二、研究成果 
三、建議 
四、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名  
服務機構
及職稱  
出國時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 出國地點  
附件六 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/03/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 建構以開放源碼為基礎的實驗室電子紀錄本
計畫主持人: 林仲彥
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-001-016- 學門領域: 生物資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究已完成初期目標，亦協助多個國內外實驗室建立系統，進行測試。雛形
系 統 已 提 供 國 內 外 研 究 社 群 下 載 使 用 ， 參 考 網 址 為
http://eln.iis.sinica.edu.tw。目前，我們獲得微軟公司全球雲端合作研究
計畫兩年期的支援，將把此一系統與 MS-Azure 雲端平台連結，並將持續開發以
open source 為基礎移動手持平台介面，希望能以更友善的親和介面，提供生
物醫學及相關研究社群使用，將研究的歷程以數位化的方式加以紀錄與查詢，
跨越時空的限制，焠煉出實驗室的智慧結晶。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
