Abstract 
Branched polyethylenimine (PEI) is a cationic polymer capable of forming self-assembly 
complexes with DNA to become a highly efficient agent used in gene delivery. Conjugation 
through the primary amines of PEI is a most commonly used approach further to enable the 
targeting delivery or to improve the stability of the DNA-polymer complexes. An 
understanding of how the conjugation affects the transfection mechanisms can help design 
efficient polycationic vectors. In order to investigate the effects of conjugation, folate and the 
dextrans of molecular weight 1500 (dex-1500) and 10000 (dex-10000) were used to prepare 
three different types of PEI conjugates: dextran-PEI, folate-PEI, and folate-dextran-PEI, 
which were subsequently employed to form complexes with DNA. These conjugates were 
found to cause less cytotoxicity than the unmodified PEI as revealed by the MTT method, 
and to be able to deliver an approximate amount of ethidium monoazide labeled plasmid into 
the cells. The efficiencies of green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression mediated by these 
conjugates, however, were less efficient than those mediated by the unmodified PEI. A 
titration experiment suggested that conjugation through the primary amines of PEI resulted in 
the loss of buffering capacity, a major factor aiding the release of plasmid from the 
endosomes. When a quantitative relationship between the buffering capacity and transfection 
efficiency was examined, the minimal detection of GFP positive cells was noted to require a 
threshold of buffering capacity, around 50% of the unmodified PEI. In addition, the 
cytotoxicity could be also related to the buffering capacity in an approximately linear trend. It 
is thus concluded that the severe loss of buffering capacity by conjugation might be attributed 
to the inefficiency transgene expression mediated by the dextran-PEI conjugates. 
 4
List of Figures and Tables 
TABLE 1 THE ESTIMATED DEGREES OF CONJUGATION ON EACH PEI CONJUGATE 16 
 
FIGURE 1 TRANSFECTION EFFICIENCIES OF THE PEI CONJUGATES AT DIFFERENT N/P RATIOS.
 17 
FIGURE 2 SIZES AND ZETA POTENTIALS OF THE DNA-POLYMER COMPLEXES IN THE DMEM 
AND SALT-FREE BUFFERS. 17 
FIGURE 3 MEAN FLUORESCENCE INTENSITIES OF THE CELLS AFTER INCUBATION WITH THE 
DNA-POLYMER COMPLEXES CONTAINING EMA-LABELED PLASMID 20 
FIGURE 4 BUFFERING CAPACITIES OF THE PEI CONJUGATES 21 
FIGURE 5 CELLULAR CYTOTOXICITIES OF THE DNA-POLYMER COMPLEXES 22 
FIGURE 6 DEPENDENCE OF CYTOTOXICITY AND THE BUFFERING CAPACITY 23 
FIGURE 7 DEPENDENCE OF TRANSFECTION EFFICIENCY AND BUFFERING CAPACITY 24 
 
 
 6
expression. The physicochemical properties were indicated by the sizes and the zeta 
potentials of the complexes. The buffering capacity was determined by titration, and the 
cellular cytotoxicity was examined using the MTT method. The efficiency of transgene 
expression and the amount of intracellular plasmid were monitored using green fluorescent 
protein (GFP) and ethidium monoazide (EMA) labeled plasmid, respectively. Flow cytometry 
was used to measure the number of cells expressing GFP and the fluorescence intensity of 
EMA-labeled plasmid.  
Experimental Section 
Materials.  
Polyethylenimine (PEI, MW 25000), sodium cyanoborohydride, 2-chloroethyl amine, 
dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), sodium periodate were obtained from Aldrich (Milwaukee, WI). 
Dextran of molecular weight 10000, denoted by dex-10000 and dextran of molecular weight 
1500, denoted by dex-1500 were from Fluka Chemie (Buchs, Switzerland). Folate, thiazolyl 
blue tetrazolium bromide (MTT), Dubecco’s modified Eagle medium (DMEM), and 
folate-deficient Dubecco’s modified Eagle medium were purchased from Sigma (St. Louis, 
MO). Dicyclohexyl carbodiimide (DDC), 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS), and 
1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropy) carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC) were from Pierce 
(Rockford, IL). Ethidium monoazide (EMA) was purchased from Molecular Probes (Eugen, 
OR). All chemicals were used as received. Water was deionized by a Milli-Q water 
purification system (Bedford, MA). The pEGFP-C1 vector containing a mutated green 
fluorescent protein gene driven by a Cytomegalovirus promoter was from Clontech (Palo 
Alto, CA). Dialysis membranes with different molecular weight cutoffs were from Spectrum 
(Los Angels, CA). Fetal bovine serum and antibiotics of 
penicillin-streptomycin-amphotericin were from Hyclone (Logan, Utah). 
Plasmid amplification and labeling.  
The pEGFP-C1 vector was amplified in E. coli and purified as previously described. The 
purified plasmid was covalently labeled with EMA, which could provide a stable fluorescent 
reporter of the bound DNA. The labeling of plasmid with EMA by photoactivation was 
carried out as previously described30. Briefly, the mixture of EMA and plasmid was exposed 
to white light for 30 min. The unreacted EMA was removed by extraction with saturated 
n-butanol and dialysis against 2-l of distilled water six times using Spectra/Por membrane 
(MWCO = 15000) in the dark. 
Preparation of folate-dextran-PEI conjugate.  
Amination of dextran. Dextran (1.0 g) was dissolved in a solution of 2.2 g NaOH in 10 ml 
water. The mixture was incubated at 30 oC for 30 min. A weight of 2.6 g 2-chloroethylamine 
was added to the above mixture. The reaction was performed at 30 oC with constant shaking. 
The extent of reaction was controlled by different reaction times: 12 and 18 h for dex-1500, 
and 12 and 24 h for dex-10000. After reaction, the reacted dextran was purified by repeated 
precipitation with 2-fold volume of methanol till the color became whitish before 
lyophilization. 
Oxidization of amino-dextran. The vicinal hydroxyl groups of the above amino-dextran (0.6 g 
dex-1500 or 2.0 g dex-10000 in 20 ml water) were oxidized to a aldehyde group in the 
presence of sodium periodate (0.4 g)31. The reaction was carried out at 25 oC with constant 
shaking for 8 h in the dark. The oxidized amino-dextran was lyophilized after repeated 
 8
Measurements of the size and zeta potential of the DNA-polymer complexes.  
A Zetamaster system (Malvern, Malvern, UK) was used to measure the sizes and zeta 
potentials of the DNA-polymer complexes prepared with either unmodified PEI or each 
conjugate as previously described. Briefly, the desired amount of each cationic polymer was 
mixed with 40 µg of DNA at an N/P ratio of nine, where the N/P ratio was used to indicate 
the charge ratio of the cationic polymer to DNA with N representing the number of amine in 
the polymer and P representing the number of phosphate in the DNA. The sizes and 
zeta-potentials of the DNA-polymer complexes were examined using a salt-free buffer (20 
mM Hepes, 5.2% glucose, pH 7.0) and DMEM without phenol red. 
Cell culture.  
KB cells, a human epidermal carcinoma cell line, were maintained at 37 oC, 5% CO2, and 
100% humidity in folate-deficient Dulbecco’s modified Eagle medium supplemented with 
1% antibiotics of penicillin-streptomycin-amphotericin and 10% fetal bovine serum. Cells 
were seeded onto 35 mm petri dishes at 20,000 cells/cm2 16 h before transfection. 
Transfection. The transfection reagent was prepared by mixing 2 µg plasmid with the 
desired conjugate at various N/P ratios (4, 6, 9, 12) in 0.2 ml of folate-deficient DMEM. The 
mixture was allowed to stand at room temperature for 15 to 30 min, and then 0.8 ml of 
folate-deficient DMEM was added to make the transfection reagents. For transgene 
expression, cells were cultured with the transfection reagents for 6 h and then replaced with 
culture medium for additional 18 h. For the measurement of plasmid delivery, EMA-labeled 
plasmid instead of unlabeled plasmid was used in the preparation of transfection reagent at 
the N/P ratio of 9. The cells were incubated with the EMA-labeled plasmid for 6 h at 37 oC 
and 4 oC to determine the amount of plasmid associated with the cells and that adhered onto 
the cell surfaces, respectively. 
Cytotoxicity assay by MTT.  
The transfected cells at the N/P ratio of 9 were washed twice with one ml of phosphate 
buffered saline (PBS; pH 7.2). Then, an aliquot of 1 ml PBS solution containing MTT (0.5 
mg/ml) was added to the cultured cells. After 4 h incubation, DMSO was used to solubilize 
the colored formazan product, and the absorbance at 540 nm was measured. 
Flow cytometric analysis.  
The transfected cells were harvested with PBS containing 0.15% trypsin/1 mM EDTA. After 
the cells were detached, an equal volume of medium was added, and the cells were fixed in 
the presence of 1% paraformaldehyde for 10 min at room temperature. The fixed cells were 
then washed with 3 ml of PBS containing 1% paraformaldehyde three times. The final pellet 
was resuspended in PBS containing 1% paraformaldehyde and stored at 4 oC for flow 
cytometric analysis. For each sample, 20,000 events were collected by a flow cytometer 
(FACS Calibur; BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) equipped with an argon-ion laser and a red 
diode laser. The analysis of the transfected cells was performed by the CellQuest software 
(BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) as previously reported30. 
 10
P-7LD-7FA and P-25FA were the highest ones among the group: P-8LD, P-7LD-7FA, and 
P-8LD-31FA and another group: P-10FA, P-25FA, and P-35FA, respectively. The conjugates 
with dex-10000, however, failed to produce any detectable level of GFP positive cells at all 
of the N/P ratios except for the PEI conjugated with a very minimal level of dex-10000 and 
folate (P-1HD and P-1HD-1FA). Unmodified PEI was the most effective transfection agent at 
all the N/P ratios tested in this study, suggesting that the conjugation diminished the 
transfection effectiveness of PEI. In an effort to understand what factors altered the 
transfection effectiveness of PEI after conjugation, we investigated the physicochemical 
properties of the DNA-polymer complexes, the level of intracellular plasmid, and the 
buffering capacity of the PEI conjugates.  
Physicochemical properties of the DNA-polymer complexes in the salt free 
and DMEM buffers 
For the measurements of the physiochemical properties of the complexes, the 
DNA-polymer complexes were prepared at the N/P ratio of 9 in the salt-free and DMEM 
buffers, respectively. The sizes of the complexes were found to be below 200 nm in the 
salt-free buffer when PEI was conjugated with either dex-1500 or folate (Fig. 2A). But when 
the above complexes were prepared in the DMEM buffer, the sizes became larger than 1500 
nm. On the other hand, the sizes of the complexes prepared with PEI conjugated with 
dex-10000 exhibited slightly larger sizes (200 – 400 nm) in the salt-free buffer (Fig. 2A). The 
sizes of these complexes, however, remained at the approximate magnitude (< 400 nm) when 
the DMEM buffer was used, indicating that the conjugation of dex-10000 could retard the 
salt-induced aggregation of complexes and thereby stabilized the complexes. These 
observations were consistent with a previous report22, which demonstrated that the 
conjugation of large dextran could better stabilize the DNA-polymer complexes than the 
conjugation of small dextran. 
The conjugation of folate seemed to affect the zeta potentials of the complexes prepared 
in the DMEM buffer. For the approximate degrees of dextran conjugation, the polymers 
containing folate showed larger negative values of zeta potential in comparisons with those 
containing dextran alone; for example P-8LD-31FA vs. P-8LD, P-20LD-21FA vs. P-17LD, 
P-9HD-21FA vs. P-11HD, and P-16HD-38FA vs. P-19HD (Fig. 2B). These observations 
might reflect the nature of folate conjugation, which were on the exterior dextran of the 
complexes. The surface charges of the complexes were also more negative when dex-10000 
was used than dex-1500, suggesting that dex-10000 provided a better charge shield.  
Entry of plasmid delivered by the DNA-polymer complexes 
The cellular entry of DNA-polymer complexes was via endocytosis, which did not occur 
at the reduced temperature of 4 oC. At 4 oC the plasmid remained only bound on the cell 
membranes. The amounts of membrane-bound complexes were at the same level for all the 
polymers (p < 0.1) (Fig. 3A). The intracellular amounts of the delivered plasmid could be 
estimated by the differences in the mean fluorescence intensities of the cells incubated with 
EMA-labeled plasmid at 4 oC and those at 37 oC (Fig. 3B). In this study, flow cytometry was 
used to measure the changes in the cellular fluorescence intensity of each individual cell after 
the cells were incubated with the EMA labeled plasmid. Although the conjugation of folate 
was attempted to enable the targeted delivery of plasmid into the cells, the intracellular 
amounts of plasmid delivered by various polymers were of the same level (p < 0.1) 
irrespective of the grafting degrees and of the types of conjugation.  
 12
Effects of intracellular buffering capacity on cytotoxicity and transfection 
efficiency 
Several recent studies have demonstrated that buffering capacity is an important 
characteristic of PEI for its high efficiency of transgene expression10, 11, 13, 36. Conjugation 
onto the amines of PEI diminished the buffering capacity as revealed by other reports30, 37 as 
well as shown in this study, indicating that using the fluorophore-labeled PEI to monitor the 
intracellular amount of polymer might be unable to reflect the actual sponge effect of either 
unmodified PEI or the PEI conjugates. Therefore, we employed the intensity of EMA 
fluorescence to represent the intracellular amount of polymer delivered into each cell by 
assuming that the polymer was proportionally associated with the EMA-plasmid to enter 
across the cell membrane. Thus, the intracellular buffering capacity was defined as the 
multiplication of the EMA intensity (Fig. 3, panel B) and the buffering capacity of the 
corresponding polymer (Fig. 4, panel B), and was further expressed in terms of percentages 
by setting the intracellular buffering capacity of unmodified PEI as 100%. Fig. 6 revealed an 
approximately linear dependence between the loss in cellular viability and the relative 
intracellular buffering capacity when the relationship of these two parameters was examined. 
The high buffering capacity constituted the sponge effect of PEI to disrupt the endosomes, 
and also induced high cellular cytotoxicity presumably due to the unbalances of intracellular 
protons and the disruption of intracellular organelles. On the other hand, the decreased 
buffering capacity might be unable to induce a sufficient influx of chloride ion into the 
endosomes, and therefore maintained high cell viability.  
When the intracellular buffering capacity was used as a parameter to examine its 
relationship with the transfection efficiency, a threshold of intracellular buffering capacity, 
about 50% of the unmodified PEI capacity, was found for the minimal detection of GFP 
positive cells by flow cytometry (Fig. 7). Beyond the threshold, the percentage of GFP 
positive cells followed a trend increasing with the intracellular buffering capacity roughly in 
a linear way. It could be realized that the low intracellular buffering capacity was insufficient 
to disrupt the endosomes for the release of plasmid. Therefore, dextran-PEI and 
folate-dextran-PEI conjugates produced very minimal levels of transgene expression mainly 
due to the severely abolished buffering capacity whereas the folate-PEI conjugates still 
maintained the moderate percentages of GFP expressing cells due to the less decreases in 
buffering capacity.  
Conclusions 
In this study, the cellular cytotoxicity and the efficiency of transgene expression were 
found to quantitatively depend upon the buffering capacity of the PEI conjugates. The 
conjugation onto PEI through primary amine resulted in decreases in buffering capacity that 
might be attributed to the accompanying decreases in transfection efficiency and cell 
cytotoxicity. A high-degree conjugation of a large-size molecule, such as dex-10000, could 
stabilize the DNA-polymer complexes, and improve cell viability. Nevertheless such 
conjugation failed to produce detectable transgene expression presumably because of the 
significant decreases in buffering capacity. The quantitative descriptions of the dependence 
between buffering capacity and transfection efficiency as well as cellular cytotoxicity could 
be expected to provide a basis for the design of efficient polycationic vectors. 
 14
(14) Thomas, M.; Klibanov, A. M. Enhancing polyethylenimine's delivery of plasmid DNA 
into mammalian cells. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2002, 99, 14640-14645. 
(15) Kichler, A. Gene transfer with modified polyethylenimines. J. Gene Med. 2004, 6 
Suppl 1, S3-10. 
(16) Fajac, I.; Allo, J. C.; Souil, E.; Merten, M.; Pichon, C.; Figarella, C.; Monsigny, M.; 
Briand, P.; Midoux, P. Histidylated polylysine as a synthetic vector for gene transfer 
into immortalized cystic fibrosis airway surface and airway gland serous cells. J. 
Gene Med. 2000, 2, 368-378. 
(17) Putnam, D.; Gentry, C. A.; Pack, D. W.; Langer, R. Polymer-based gene delivery with 
low cytotoxicity by a unique balance of side-chain termini. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 
2001, 98, 1200-1205. 
(18) Benns, J. M.; Mahato, R. I.; Kim, S. W. Optimization of factors influencing the 
transfection efficiency of folate-PEG-folate-graft-polyethylenimine. J. Control. 
Release 2002, 79, 255-269. 
(19) Blessing, T.; Kursa, M.; Holzhauser, R.; Kircheis, R.; Wagner, E. Different strategies 
for formation of pegylated EGF-conjugated PEI/DNA complexes for targeted gene 
delivery. Bioconjug. Chem. 2001, 12, 529-537. 
(20) Ogris, M.; Brunner, S.; Schuller, S.; Kircheis, R.; Wagner, E. PEGylated 
DNA/transferrin-PEI complexes: reduced interaction with blood components, 
extended circulation in blood and potential for systemic gene delivery. Gene Ther. 
1999, 6, 595-605. 
(21) Choi, Y. H.; Liu, F.; Park, J. S.; Kim, S. W. Lactose-poly(ethylene glycol)-grafted 
poly-L-lysine as hepatoma cell-tapgeted gene carrier. Bioconjug. Chem. 1998, 9, 
708-718. 
(22) Tseng, W. C.; Jong, C. M. Improved stability of polycationic vector by 
dextran-grafted branched polyethylenimine. Biomacromolecules 2003, 4, 1277-1284. 
(23) Kircheis, R.; Kichler, A.; Wallner, G.; Kursa, M.; Ogris, M.; Felzmann, T.; Buchberger, 
M.; Wagner, E. Coupling of cell-binding ligands to polyethylenimine for targeted 
gene delivery. Gene Ther. 1997, 4, 409-418. 
(24) Li, S.; Tan, Y.; Viroonchatapan, E.; Pitt, B. R.; Huang, L. Targeted gene delivery to 
pulmonary endothelium by anti-PECAM antibody. Am. J. Physiol. 2000, 278, 
L504-511. 
(25) O'Neill, M. M.; Kennedy, C. A.; Barton, R. W.; Tatake, R. J. Receptor-mediated gene 
delivery to human peripheral blood mononuclear cells using anti-CD3 antibody 
coupled to polyethylenimine. Gene Ther. 2001, 8, 362-368. 
(26) Harbottle, R. P.; Cooper, R. G.; Hart, S. L.; Ladhoff, A.; McKay, T.; Knight, A. M.; 
Wagner, E.; Miller, A. D.; Coutelle, C. An RGD-oligolysine peptide: a prototype 
construct for integrin-mediated gene delivery. Hum. Gene Ther. 1998, 9, 1037-1047. 
 16
Table 1 The estimated degrees of conjugation on each PEI conjugate 
Degree of conjugation 
Dextran MW molecules of 
dextran 
molecules of 
folate 
denotation symbol 
8.0 0 P-8LD A 
17.4 0 P-17LD B 
7.2 6.7 P-7LD-7FA C 
8.4 30.5 P-8LD-31FA D 
1500 
19.8 20.6 P-20LD-21FA E 
0.7 0 P-1HD F 
10.6 0 P-11HD G 
18.9 0 P-19HD H 
0.7 1.3 P-1HD-1FA I 
8.7 20.9 P-9HD-21FA J 
8.9 34.8 P-9HD-35FA K 
10000 
15.9 38.1 P-16HD-38FA L 
0 10.3 P-10FA M 
0 25.3 P-25FA N none 
0 34.8 P-35FA O 
unmodified 0 0 PEI P 
 
 18
Figure 6 Dependence of cytotoxicity and the buffering capacity 
Loss in cellular viability was used to indicate the cytotoxicity by setting the untransfected 
cells as 0%. The relative buffering capacity was defined as the multiplication of the mean 
fluorescence intensity of intracellular EMA-plasmid (Fig. 3, panel B) and the buffering 
capacity of the corresponding conjugate (Fig. 4, panel B) by setting the unmodified PEI as 
100%. The solid line showed a linear regression between the loss in cellular viability and the 
relative buffering capacity, and the dash line showed the linear regression with 99% of 
confidence. The alphabets indicated each conjugate as listed in Table 1. 
 
Figure 7 Dependence of transfection efficiency and buffering capacity  
The relative buffering capacity was defined as the multiplication of the mean fluorescence 
intensity of intracellular EMA-plasmid (Fig. 3, panel B) and the buffering capacity of the 
corresponding conjugate (Fig. 4, panel B) by setting the unmodified PEI as 100%. The 
relationship showed that a minimal value of the relative buffering capacity was required for a 
detectable level of GFP positive cells. 
Figure 2 Sizes and zeta potentials of the DNA-polymer complexes in the 
DMEM and salt-free buffers. 
 20
Figure 4 Buffering capacities of the PEI conjugates 
 22
Figure 6 Dependence of cytotoxicity and the buffering capacity 
 24
 
 
 
  26
計畫成果自評 
本研究內容與原計畫相符並達成預期目標，研究成果已於學術期刊發表。 
