friction coefficient, while the other one has a rough 
tool surface described as roughness geometry with 
zero friction. In addition to elucidating the effect 
of roughness geometry of a tool surface on friction 
in microforming, this work provides fundamental 
information about the interfacial conditions of the 
contact surface, as well as enables more accurate and 
more flexible modeling of friction. Importantly, our 
results provide an opportunity to model friction for 
microforming applications. 
英文關鍵詞： Friction； roughness； interference； micro V-die 
bending. 
 
1中文摘要
本計劃之目的在於探討尺寸微細化下，金屬成形製程的一些基本特性與變化，金屬
微成形技術目前已是重要的精密加工技術之一，尺寸微細化所產生的尺寸效應(size
effect)會使(1)材料變形特性及(2)接觸摩擦特性等與巨觀下的反應不盡相同。由於微成形
製程相關之特徵與規範尚未建立，因此提出此一年期個別型計劃，希望能對微成形製程
的一些共通性基本特性作一些學理性的基礎分析，作為將來微成形製程之施行準則與先
期評估方法，同時可用於微成形數值模擬、模具設計及缺陷評估分析的參考。其中，
(1)首先採用 NSC-95-2221-E-149-004 計劃所提出之具”尺寸效應”之塑流應力關係
式，可描述單晶至多晶之塑流應力變化，同時包含一可分辨微觀(有尺寸效應)至巨觀(無
尺寸效應)尺度之 T/D 臨界值(T/D)c，用以作為微成形製程有限元素模擬分析之微成形變
形行為之輸入資料。
(2)本年度計畫：金屬表面摩擦與粗糙度具有影響鈑金成形製程之特性，而傳統接觸
介面模式並不適合應用於微成形製程，本文係以分布於模具表面層之小圓弧幾何線段作
為模具表面層粗糙度，用以替代傳統界面接觸之摩擦係數，並據以建立微成形V型模彎
曲製程有限元素模式，嘗試以粗糙與細緻兩種工具表面，來了解幾何”尺寸效應”對乾
摩擦之關係，作為摩擦效應之影響驗證。本文可提供有關介面摩擦效應之基本幾何影響
特性，並建立一基礎分析模式，可提供更恰當與合適之摩擦模式，而應用於微成形之解
析。
計畫成果在生產前之評估階段，可提供正確之參考資料，以期達到精密加工之目的。
關鍵詞：摩擦；粗糙度；干涉；V 形微彎曲成形。
31. INTRODUCTION
Contact friction refers to resistance as the most significant effect on surface contact. Despite
the importance of contact friction in manufacturing, especially in metal cutting and metal
forming. However, the friction of metal cutting is atypical to the usual sliding case, which value
is exceptionally high and varies with tool geometry, thermal effect and other cutting conditions.
This work elucidates the effect of surface roughness on dry contact friction in metal forming via
a friction model using roughness geometry as a replacement for friction coefficient. Contact
friction arises from the interactions of asperities in sliding contact. In the contact layer,
interactions among asperities always occur and are often the main cause of friction. However,
the extent to which interference of asperities contributes to friction may or may not be significant.
Its effect depends on the surface roughness and the relative hardness of contact surfaces. Since
all surfaces of mechanical parts are rough once manufactured to some extent, the modeling of
contact between these rough surfaces becomes extremely important, leading to an enhanced
understanding of the contact friction between surfaces. When two rough surfaces come into
contact with each other under a load, only the asperities on the surface contact with each other.
The asperities of surfaces thus often have extremely high loads, frequently causing surface
yielding. Therefore, purely elastic contact models of rough surfaces are occasionally inadequate
under severe loading.
Notably, contacting asperities are normally analyzed using two models: indentation
loading, in which a rigid sphere penetrates a deformed plane such as that described in Leu [1],
and the reverse case model, in which a deformed sphere is loaded against a rigid flat such as
that described in Leu [2]. Based on these models, the characteristics of contact between two
rough surfaces are investigated from a macro view. However, conventional methods of
modeling the interface are unrealistic in microforming. Therefore, this work develops a finite
element analysis to measure the equivalence between flat interfaces. Their geometric
properties are also described when evaluating contact friction via a friction model that
assumes the roughness geometry of a tool surface to replace the friction coefficient of the
conventional friction law in contact between tool and workpiece.
Greenwood and Williamson [3] pioneered the study of frictionless contact between a
hemisphere and a rigid flat (i.e. the GW model) that applied the Hertz contact solution to
model an entire contact surface of elastic asperities. Many elastic-plastic asperity models have
been designed to supplement the GW model. Although based on the Abbott and Firestone
model [4], many plastic contact models neglect volume conservation of plastic deformation.
Plastic contact of surfaces is a fundamental problem in the contact mechanics of severe
5asperities is the primary cause of friction. Solid-state adhesion is the secondary cause,
producing extremely high friction. Viscous drag, as attributed to hydrodynamic lubrication, is
the third leading cause, producing low frictional resistance. Lanzon et al. [26] experimentally
studied the effects of lubricants, surface finish, contact pressure, sheet metal coating and draw
speed on friction. Weidel and Enget [27] elucidated the effect of surface topography of a tool
and workpiece on friction by using new functional 3D parameters of surface based on their
developed software, WinSAM, during metal forming. Based on an experiment using an
inclined pin-on-plate sliding apparatus, Menezes et al. [28] investigated the effect of grinding
mark directionality, i.e. surface texture, on the friction coefficient and transfer layer formation
during sliding contact. Menezes et al. [29] theoretically investigated the effect of friction
coefficient on metal forming by the FE method, by simulating three compression tests on
cylindrical Al-Mg alloy in which the friction coefficient is assumed to remain constant in the
upper die-workpiece interface, but varies in the lower die-workpiece interface. Menezes et al.
[30] experimentally investigated the effect of surface texture on the friction coefficient by
using an inclined pin-on-plate sliding tester under dry and lubricated conditions. According to
their results, friction coefficient and transfer layer formation depend mainly on the surface
texture of a hard surface. By using characterization methods from a materials aspect, Rigney
[31] found a wide variety of near-surface features on ductile materials subjected to sliding.
These features depend on a few basic processes: plastic deformation, transfer, interactions
with the environment and mechanical mixing. Bonny et al. [32] found that the microstructure
of secondary WC-phase significantly affects the wire EDM behavior and frictional
characteristics, by performing a dry reciprocating sliding experiment using a pin-on-plate
testing rig. Diaz de Cerio et al. [33] described the tribological properties of
magnetron-sputtered WC-C and chemical vapor-deposited diamond-like carbon films coated
onto hard metal surfaces when sliding on aluminium foil under different temperatures. This
work addresses the evolution of friction coefficient in the interface of coated hard metal and
aluminium foil under dry lubrication condition using a ball-on-disc test.
Strong industrial demand for increased integration and packaging densities of electronic
devices has led to the miniaturization of manufacturing process. Metal forming is a highly
feasible manufacturing technology for micro-scale products owing to its high production rates,
minimized material loss and excellent mechanical properties of manufactured parts. Notably,
the so-called size effect must be considered when reducing a conventional forming process to
micro scale. Microstructural features such as grain size and boundary and interfacial
conditions such as friction and roughness can significantly affect process characteristics.
7fundamental information about the interfacial conditions of the contact surface.
Simulation of deformation process of sheet metal forming is a non-linear problem of
plasticity. Numerically simulating the entire forming process in large deformation is a rather
complex task. Complexities related to the high non-linearity of large deformation include the
following: complicated geometric changes due to large displacements, rotations and strains;
the non-linear constitutive behavior of material due to the inelastic characteristic of large
deformation; and the non-linear characteristic of deformation dependent boundary conditions
varying throughout the loading process. These complexities make it difficult to simulate the
entire deformation process. As is widely recognized, the finite element method accompanied
by rapid advances in digital computers is essential and indispensable owing to its flexibility
and accuracy. In addition to overcoming the non-linear symptoms of geometries and materials,
this method can treat the highly non-linear contact boundary conditions well. For the present
finite-element analysis, non-linear boundary conditions such as the contact-separation
conditions of nodes and the friction states are formulated in an incremental manner. To avoid
the divergence problem in a solution, this work adopts the static explicit approach, which
most accurately predicts the final shape of products after unloading. To ensure the accuracy of
this explicit integration scheme, a weighting factor minr proposed by Yamada et al. [44] is
adopted to select the size of the loading increment. Therefore, the state of elements and
boundary conditions is assumed to remain unchanged during each incremental step.
This work performs rate independent elasto-plastic finite-element analysis based on an
updated Lagrangian formulation to simulate the entire processes of micro V-die bending
formation, including a rough tool surface described by a series of continuous geometric
function with zero friction, under the plane strain condition. For the application of the present
finite-element based friction model, some aspects of the roughness geometry of tool surface
on friction are described as well. This work describes further developments of the geometric
approach of Becker et al. [39], in which both forming loads and metal flow predictions are
validated for an interface modeled geometrically. The geometric approach is characterized by
conventional bending forming, in which the flat profile of a tool surface with the friction
coefficient can be modeled as a bending forming with a roughness tool surface described by a
series of geometric functions, as like a knob (Fig. 1). The knobs distributed on a rough surface
are used to replace friction effect or sliding resistance in contact between tool and workpiece.
The knob geometry produces an obstacle to sliding during bending forming, which exhibits
friction behavior. This behavior allows for surface profile measurements in the analysis of a
particular forming operation, which is especially useful at the microforming scale. The present
92. ANALYSIS
Contact analysis must be realistic to form a feasible forming model. Therefore, tools are
modeled as rigid bodies and the workpiece material is modeled as a deformable body in this
work. Based on the physical contact behavior of surfaces with roughness (asperities) between
tools and workpiece, the proposed model depicts the interference friction effect associated
with tool roughness geometry (Fig. 1). The model assumes that the real tool surface with
asperities is equivalent to a rough tool surface with knobs modeled with a circular arc shape
and zero friction, and the workpiece surface assumes smooth.
2.1 Variational principle
The updated Lagrangian formulation (ULF) pioneered by McMeeking and Rice [45] is
widely considered the best formulation for describing the incremental characteristics of plastic
flow under deformation. At each time instant, the reference state is updated to coincide with
the current deformation state, explaining why the first order theory is consistent with accuracy
requirements. By using the Jaumann rate of Cauchy stress, the rate equation for virtual work
can be expressed in updated Lagrangian form as
    
fS
iiV V ijikjkijkjik
J
ij SvfdVLLdV2   (1)
where )( kjikkjikij
J
ij ww   denotes the Jaumann rate of Cauchy stress ij ; ij
represents the strain rate; )( jiij XvL  refers to the velocity gradient; jX is the spatial
fixed Cartesian coordinate; iv denotes the velocity; if represents the rate of the nominal
traction; V refers to the material volume and fS denotes the surface on which the traction is
prescribed.
2.2 Constitutive model
FE simulation considers elastic effects caused by elastic loading or plastic unloading. This
work assumes the following elasto-plastic constitutive relations:
(i) Elastic behavior: isotropic and linear elasticity with a small strain;
(ii) Plastic behavior: rate independent, isotropic strain hardening, von Mises yield function
and associative flow rule.
The constitutive relation, which incorporates small elastic-finite plastic deformation
behavior, is expressed as
11
from a simple tensile test.
For micro sheet metal forming, the flow stress model with parameters Dto / (= sheet
thickness / grain size) and p describing the complete distribution of flow stress from the
micro scale to the macro scale in simple tension is adopted as
 
n
p
n
pca
cap
DtoC
CCDtoDtoCC
DtoDtoCDto



)/(
)]()//()/(tanh[
)]()//()/(tanh[]),/[(
00
00





(5)
)]()//()/(tanh[)/( 00 CCDtoDtoCCDtoC ca   (6)
derived by Leu [47] in which npp C 

00),0(  at D )0/( Dto is well known
to be applicable to a single crystal case, and nppc CDto  ],)/[( at
cDtoDto )/(/  is known to be applicable to a polycrystalline case under the macro scale
condition when 3aC . Notably, 0C and C are material constants, and 0 and 
represent the true stresses of the single crystal and the polycrystal, respectively. According to
the dislocation theory and Hall-Petch relation, the ratio cDto )/( distinguishes the micro sale
from the macro scale, which can be defined as
1
2
ln
)/ˆ(2
ln2)/( 









 


Dk
Dto
i
i
c (7)
where  denotes the orientation-dependent factor and 3.19.0  ; i represents the
friction stress of a single crystal (the limiting stress); and kˆ refers to the unpinning constant
of Hall-Petch relation.
Consequently, the flow stress model with parameters Dto / and p to describe the
complete distribution of flow stress from the micro scale to the macro scale can rewritten as
13

 














yyxxxyxy
xyyy
xyxx
Q



2
1
20
02
and 















xxxy
yyxy
xyyy
xyxx
Z




00
00
00
00
(11)
When plastic media is considered, the deformed volume is constant, i.e. incompressible or
nearly incompressible. Thus, implementing a full integration approach for finite element leads
to an excessive constraint in the case of thin plate. This work adopts the selective reduced
integration (SRI) procedure, which has been proven effective in treating such volumetrically
stiff contribution problems.
2.4 Formulation of friction via a conventional friction law
The friction condition in the contact zone between workpiece and tools is a key factor in
the deformation process. A modification of the Coulomb friction law proposed by Oden and
Pries [48] is used to describe the conventional friction state. Two contact friction states e.g.,
sticking and sliding, can be satisfactorily modeled by incremental application of this analytical
friction law.
The nodal force F

acting on a contact node can be resolved into tangential and normal
components lf and nf ,
nflfF nl
  (12)
where n

denotes the outward vector normal to tool surface and l

is perpendicular to n

.
The tangential force lf , which is in the same direction as the sliding direction, is obtained by
the adopted friction law
 relsrellnl uuff  /3tanh (13)
where  denotes the friction coefficient; nf represents the normal force;
 relsrell uu 3tanh refers to an analytical hyperbolic function used to substitute for a
discontinuity in sliding or sticking when applying a friction law such as the Coulomb friction
law; relsu denotes the limit displacement increment for quasi-sticking; rellu represents the
incremental displacement caused by sliding relative to the tool movement;
15
 relsrellnl uuff  /3tanh (17)
and the incremental change in nodal force F

acting on the contact node is simplified as
nflfF nl
  (18)
The global stiffness matrix with respect to the contact node is simply constructed by

































i
n
i
l
i
n
i
l
f
f
u
u
kk
kk
k
1
2221
1211 (19)
In the solution scheme, the incremental change in friction force on the contact node is
calculated iteratively.
2.5 Weighting factor minr for the increment of each loading step
During each increment, the material is referred to its configuration at the beginning of the
increment (updated Lagrangian scheme). The contact and separation conditions of nodes as
well as the state of elements must remain constant during the increment. To satisfy this
requirement and ensure the accuracy of this explicit integration scheme (static explicit
formulation), the weighting factor minr proposed by Yamada et al. [44] is used in the
elasto-plastic and contact-separation problems to calculate the size of the increment needed to
maintain the linear relation. The size of each loading step is determined by the smallest of the
following five r-values:
minr = MIN{ 1r , 2r , 3r , 4r , 5r } (20)
1r : to ascertain the equivalent stress of elastic elements that have just reached the current yield
surface;
2r : to limit the largest equivalent strain increment to linear relation;
3r : to limit the rotation increment to linear relation;
4r : to enable a free node that only contacts the tools and
17
experimental results of punch force. The predicted results (dashed line) agree well with the
experimental results (solid line).
Figure 3 shows the simulated shapes of a bent sheet for micro V-die bending processes.
The black area denotes the plastic deformation. The area of plastic deformation (black area in
Fig.3) is symmetrically distributed over the region under the punch during bending. As
bending progress towards the bottom of the die, a V shape bent sheet is formed. Finally, a
springback phenomenon occurs during unloading.
In conclusion, FE simulation is a highly effective means of accurately depicting processes
and variations in deformation during micro V-die bending.
Table 1 Material properties of pure iron for
experiment [50] and FE simulation
Material E GPa ν C MPa N
Pure iron 190.0 0.3 679.0 0.338
(a)
W/2
Rp Rd
0Wo
Lo/2to
I
Lo/2 = 7.5 mm
Rd = 0.5 mm
Rp = 0.5 mm
to = 0.5 mm
Wo = 5 mm
I0= 45 degree
W/2 = 15 mm
19
2.9. Establishment of a geometric equivalence of surface roughness
The importance of modeling friction from the interface geometry between workpiece and
tool has been extensively studied. Osakada and Matsumoto [37] examined the effect of tool
roughness on dry friction; a case study was also performed to describe the effect of tool
roughness on friction coefficient through a serrated tool surface and similarity law in ring
compression. However, that work failed to establish the empirical relationship or consider the
roughness of the workpiece and material properties in a theoretical manner. Lee et al. [38]
developed a friction model that considers lubricant viscosity and surface roughness for use in
metal forming simulation. Based on experimental results, that work also quantified the
relationship between friction coefficient and surface roughness of a specimen,
252.0346.024.0 2   (21)
where  denotes the surface roughness of a specimen. However, that work also did not
consider tool roughness. Becker et al. [39] as well as Jeon and Bramley [41] described an
alternative approach for describing friction in terms of geometric surface roughness of tools in
ring compression. That work also established a relationship between tool surface geometry
and friction factor m by performing a ring test,
 8086.0)ln(07.0)ln(0977.0ln19.2  atm (22)
shown in reference [39] in which t denotes the period and a represents the amplitude for a
sinusoidal tool surface profile. That work also examined the effect of tool roughness on dry
friction, excluding the effect of roughness of workpiece. Above works appear to focus on the
experimental observation.
This work develops a model, which accounts for dry friction effect caused by surface
roughness, to model sliding friction, as measured by the conventional friction law. In the
proposed model, dry friction originates from surface roughness by contact interaction of
roughness, which is applied to physical properties of the surface. A unique feature of the
present modeling is the establishment of a geometric equivalence between flat interface with a
conventional friction law and a geometric description of the interface with zero friction. The
proposed finite-element based model, based on a micro V-die bending shown in Fig. 4,
assumes a rough tool surface with small knobs and zero friction to replace the flat tool surface
21
tool
0I
nominal R
rou
gh
su
rfa
ce
AA
AA
tool
rough
surfac
e
as a w
ave cu
rve
ro
ri
90
o
a
b
Aa
Ra = Aaab
90
o
Fig.4 (b) Shape of knob on the rough surface of the tool as a wave curve, which represents a
continuous function that consists of two circular arcs (ro and ri), for the micro V-die bending
model.
W/2
Rp
Rd
to Lo/2
0I
W/2 = 2.26 mm
Rd = 1.6 mm
Rp = 1.6 mm
to = 0.2 mm
Lo/2 = 3.6 mm
I0 = 45 degree
Fig.5 Scheme of the conventional micro V-die bending processes, which has a flat tool
surface with friction coefficient, and boundary conditions during bending.
23
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
3.1. Simulation of roughness effect on friction
Based on the model of the conventional bending process shown in Fig.5, a micro V-die
bending model (Fig.4(a)) is developed to simulate the roughness effect on friction, in which a
series of knobs are uniformly embedded on the tools surface. Table 2 lists the simulation
conditions for FEA, while Table 3 displays the material properties.
Table 2 Geometries of the tool and sheet, as well as roughness
conditions of the tool surface
Lo/2 mm to mm Rp mm Rd mm W/2 mm
3.6 0.2 1.6 1.6 2.26
Surface ro mm ri mm Nc θ degree
coarse surface
(large knob)
0.084 0.035~
0.041
7.5 45
fine surface
(small knob)
0.05 0.021~
0.023
12.5 45
Nc : number of knob on arc surface of tool.
Table 3 Material properties of FE simulation with a rough
surface
Material E GPa ν y MPa C MPa n
Steel sheet 207 0.3 240.67 550.01 0.18
25
final bending stage of the fine surface of tools shown in Fig.8. Figures 9 and 10 detailed show
the shaping processes of knob in large scale to compare the coarse and fine surfaces of tools,
in which a coarse surface is easier to induce a geometric obstacle (i.e. the knob effect) to sheet
sliding than a fine surface. This obstacle on a surface prevents the bent sheet from sliding that
is inward to the die cavity; in addition, its degree is increased as the bending proceeds or the
knob increases. We conclude that the friction effect of the coarse surface is greater than that of
the fine surface. Clearly, the bend force of the coarse surface is obviously larger than that of
the fine surface. Closely examining the last line drawings of Figs. 8-10 reveals that the present
phenomenon, in which the nodal displacement increments (velocity) move outwards towards
the opposite direction of that in bending, is generallycaled “springback”.
As for the bending force, Section 3.2 compares bending force between conventional
bending (flat tool surface with a friction coefficient) and roughness tool surface with knobs.
27
U=0.00mm
U=0.10mm
U=0.30mm
U=0.50mm
U=0.70mm
U=0.90mm
U=1.10mm
U=1.30mm
U=1.50mm
U=1.70mm
U=1.90mm
U=1.96mm
U=1.96 spr
deformed shape
velocity distribution (displacement increment)
U : punch stroke
(a) (b) (a) (b)
(a)
(b)
Fig.7 Micro V-die bending process for rough tools with coarse surfaces (a large knob), part (a)
shows the deformed shape and (b) shows the displacement increment distribution from U =
0.1 to 1.96 mm in progress, which includes the springback of elastic recovery in the bottom
stage.
29
U=1.80mm
U=1.85mm
U=1.90mm
U=1.96mm
U=1.96 spr
U=1.80mm
U=1.85mm
U=1.90mm
U=1.96mm
U=1.96 spr
(a) coarse surface (b) fine surface
deformed shape velocity distribution
(a) coarse surface (b) fine surface
U : punch stroke
Fig.9 Comparison of (a) coarse and (b) fine surfaces of tools for micro V-die bending process
in final stage; left side shows the deformed shape and right side shows the displacement
increment distribution, in which springback occurs in the last line drawing resulting from the
elastic recovery of unloading.
31
3.2. Effects of surface roughness on bending force
The second case of simulation was performed to determine how roughness geometry (i.e.
surface texture) affects bending force. Figure 11 shows the variations of punch force with
punch stroke for two rough tool surfaces (i.e. small and large knobs) and a flat tool surface
with a friction coefficient. The fitting lines (i.e. the solid lines) are quantified by an orthogonal
polynomial function on the basis of predicted results (the dashed lines). This figure examines
the effect of roughness geometry on friction under certain bending conditions, as shown in
Tables 2, 3 and Figs. 4-5(a). Clearly, a limited effect is found in early stage (i). For small and
large knobs, the bending forces have no difference before a punch stroke of 9.0 mm. The
bending force of large knob is thus larger than that of a small knob as punch stroke exceeding
9.0 mm. During this stage, the knob increases its degree of resistance in the obstacle of
bending when sliding along with the tool surface. At this time, the force of a flat surface with
friction coefficient is always smaller than that of the rough surface (i.e. large and small knobs)
during second stage (ii). As the bending proceeds to the final stage (iii), the force of a large
knob is obviously larger than the small knob yet identical to the conventional bending with
friction coefficient = 0.2. First, we can infer that a large knob shows a large friction effect,
resulting in a large force. Second, the predicted bending force of = 0.2 correlates well with
the case of a large knob, which obtains the best fit. This finding suggests that this large knob
case of rough tool surface seems to be equivalent to the case of a flat tool surface with friction
coefficient = 0.2. Clearly, the case of a large knob profile is more sensible than a small
knob. In the final stage (iii), the roughness geometry appears to obviously affect the bending
force. Therefore, the obstacle of the knob on a rough tool surface increases its degree as
bending proceeds. The comparison of the results is very encouraging in the effect of
roughness geometry on dry friction during sheet metal forming.
33
4. CONCLUSIONS
This work presents a novel simulation method to develop the modeling friction in forming
processes by introducing a description of roughness geometry in place of the rough surface of
tools with zero friction. This roughness geometry of tools describes an equivalent friction.
This work allows for the incorporation of a new model into simulation software of FEM in
order to give a more realistic interpretation of the friction effect. The proposed model, which
is combined with FEM and a geometry description of the tool rough surface to account for the
friction effect resulting from surface contact, was verified by the correlation with the
conventional V-die bending process. In this work, the sizes of knob of coarse surface are
estimated to have a radius of 0.05 ~ 0.08 mm. This finding suggests that the friction
coefficient in the real polished surface is equivalent to a value of 0.2, which appears to be a
reasonable value. Clearly, the governing factor of friction is the size of knob or asperity. The
friction coefficient is sensitively affected by the roughness geometry of tool surface during
forming without a lubricant. The friction coefficient can obviously be equivalent to a rough
surface described as a series of fourth circle in FE simulation of bending forming, which can
then be used to evaluate the interface effect. This work focuses on this goal.
The proposed model has been determined only for dry condition but can be used to
incorporate the presence of a lubricant in a future work. The proposed approach will allow for
a more realistic modeling of the dominating influence of friction in microforming. This
project has been submitted to a SCI journal for publication.
Acknowledgements:
The author would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of China for
financially supporting this research under Contract No. NSC100-2221-E-149-003. S. L. Hsu is
appreciated for his valuable discussions. Ted Knoy is appreciated for his editorial assistance.
35
18. Sutcliffe MFP (1988) Surface asperity deformation in metal forming processes. Int. J. Mech.
Sci. 30(11):847-868.
19. Azushima A (1995) Direct observation of contact behaviour to interpret the pressure
dependence of the coefficient of friction in sheet metal forming. Annals of the ClRP
44(1):209-212.
20. Gong H, Lou Z and Zhang Z (2004) Studies on the friction and lubrication characteristics in
the sheet steel drawing process. Journal of Materials Processing Technology 151:328–333.
21. Xie Y and Wilfams JA (1996) The prediction of friction and wear when a soft surface slides
against a harder rough surface. Wear 196:21-34.
22. Lovell MR and Deng Z (1999) Experimental investigation of sliding friction between hard
and deformable surfaces with application to manufacturing processes. Wear 236:117–127.
23. Cho H and Ngaile G (2003) Simultaneous determination of flow stress and interface friction
by finite element based inverse analysis technique. Annals of the CIRP, 52(1):221-224.
24. Carpinteri A and Paggi M (2005) Size-scale effects on the friction coefficient. International
Journal of Solids and Structures 42:2901–2910.
25. Stachowiak GW and Batchelor AW (2005) Engineering Tribology, 3rd Ed.,
Elservier-Butterworth-Heineman.
26. Lanzon JM, Cardew-Hall MJ and Hodgson PD (1998) Characterising frictional behaviour in
sheet metal forming. Journal of Materials Processing Technology 80–81:251–256.
27. Weidel S and Enget U (2007) Surface characterization in forming processes by functional
3D parameters. Int J Adv Manuf Technol 33(1-2):130-136.
28. Menezes PL, Kishore, Kailas SV and Lovell MR (2010) Response of materials as a function
of grinding angle on friction and transfer layer formation, Int J Adv Manuf Technol
49(5-8):485-495.
29. Menezes PL, Kumar K, Kishore and Kailas SV (2009) Influence of friction during forming
processes-a study using a numerical simulation technique, Int J Adv Manuf Technol
40(11-12):1067-1076.
30. Menezes PL, Kishore and Kailas SV (2009) Influence of roughness parameters and surface
texture on friction during sliding of pure lead over 080 M40 steel, Int J Adv Manuf Technol
43(7-8):731-743.
31. Rigney DA (2000) Transfer, mixing and associated chemical and mechanical processes
during sliding of ductile materials. Wear 245:1–9.
32. Bonny K, De Baets P, Vleugels J, Salehi A, Van der Biest O, Lauwers B and Liu W (2008)
EDM machinability and frictional behavior of ZrO2-WC composites, Int J Adv Manuf
Technol 41(11-12):1085-1093.
33. Diaz de Cerio MJ, Fuentes GG, Martinez R, Rodriguez RJ, Spain E, Housden J, Qin Y and
Hörnig W (2010) Temperature-dependent contact phenomena of PVD- and CVD-deposited
DLC films sliding on the thin aluminium foil, Int J Adv Manuf Technol 47(9-12):931-936.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/07
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 表面粗糙度幾何型式對V形微彎曲成形之摩擦效應影響研究
計畫主持人: 呂道揆
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-149-003- 學門領域: 應力應變與成型
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
