 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
行動隨意網路上以叢集為基礎的半非同步省電協定 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 94－2213－E－253－002 
執行期間： 94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：許智舜 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 賴勇良、簡琨晃 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：南亞技術學院 
 
中   華   民   國  95 年 7  月  31  日 
 II
 
（二） 結案報告英文摘要 
Existing power saving (PS) protocols for MANET can be categorized into synchronous and 
asynchronous ones. The synchronous PS protocol can not be applied to a multi-hop MANET, 
because it will cause three problems, namely clock synchronization, neighbor discovery, and 
network partitioning. Although asynchronous solutions are attractive, yet, the cost is high as 
opposed to synchronous protocols. Hosts in asynchronous protocols need to keep awake for 
longer time, so as to discover asynchronous PS neighbors. Besides, a broadcast message has to be 
sent multiple times if a sending host's neighbors wake up asynchronously.  
To conquer the deficiency of asynchronous PS protocols, we have proposed several 
cluster-based semi-asynchronous PS protocols for multi-hop MANETs. The basic idea is to 
cluster neighboring hosts such that synchronous PS protocols can be adopted within individual 
clusters, and conserving a lot of energy. Several asynchronous schemes have been provided in the 
inter-cluster level, including probability-based, SNR-probability-based, round-robin-based, 
neighbor–coverage-based and location-based schemes. Simulation results have shown that the 
proposed schemes outperform the asynchronous schemes in terms of survival ratio, lifetime 
throughput, and scalability. Overall, the SNR-probability-based scheme adopting the cyclic 
quorum protocol performs the best in terms of lifetime throughput and the location-based scheme 
adopting the cyclic quorum protocol outperforms the others in terms of survival ratio. 
 
Keywords: clock synchronization, IEEE 802.11, mobile ad hoc network (MANET), power 
management, wireless network. 
energy-saving routing protocols are proposed in [11, 12], but a location-aware device (e.g. GPS) is
needed. Besides, the above protocols are not power efficient in a sparse network, because almost
all the hosts are coordinators and thus need to keep active all the time.
IEEE 802.11’s PS protocol is synchronous in the sense that all hosts must remain time-synchronized.
Clock synchronization in a large scale MANET is difficult. To solve the synchronization problem,
asynchronous power-saving (PS) protocols have been proposed. It is first pointed out in [13]
that without harmonization there could exist neighbor discovery and network partitioning [13]
problems. Three asynchronous PS protocols, namely dominating-awake-interval, periodically-
fully-awake-interval, and quorum-based protocols, are proposed in [13] for multi-hop MANETs .
Another asynchronous PS protocol for multi-hop MANETs is proposed in [14], which formulates
the problem of generating wakeup schedules as a block design problem in combinatorics. To im-
prove the works in [13], several quorum-based PS protocols, namely grid quorum, torus quorum,
cyclic quorum, and finite projective plane quorum protocols, are proposed in [15]. It also identi-
fies a rotation closure property and shows that any quorum system satisfying this property can be
translated to an asynchronous PS protocol for MANETs.
In this research, we observe that although asynchronous PS protocols can conquer the clock
synchronization problem, they may have some performance concerns. In order to discover asyn-
chronous neighbors, hosts need to keep awake for some extra time. Besides, the broadcasting cost
is high, because it takes several transmissions for a host to wake up all its asynchronous neigh-
bors. To conquer these deficiencies, we propose a cluster-based semi-asynchronous PS protocol
for multi-hop MANETs. Although, a cluster-based semi-asynchronous PS protocol for wireless
sensor network (S-MAC) has been proposed in [16], yet, S-MAC is designed for a static network.
When applied to multi-hop MANETs, neighbor discovery and network partitioning problems may
occur.
The proposed protocol works as follows. First, hosts are clustered. Inside each cluster, hosts
adopt a synchronous PS protocol so as to save more energy. Then each cluster is regarded as a
supernode and among supernodes we will run an asynchronous PS protocol. To realize this idea,
2
switch between synchronous and asynchronous PS protocols according to the arrangement of the
cluster head or probability.
3 Reviews of Related Works
In this section, we start with a review on the PS protocols of IEEE 802.11, followed by the reviews
of asynchronous PS protocols.
3.1 Power-Saving Protocols of IEEE 802.11
IEEE 802.11 [17] supports two power modes: active and power-saving (PS). Under an ad hoc
network, PS hosts wake up periodically. The short interval that PS hosts wake up is called the ATIM
window. It is assumed that hosts are fully connected and all synchronized, so the ATIM windows
of all PS hosts will start at about the same time. In the beginning of each ATIM window, each
mobile host will contend to send a beacon frame. Any successful beacon serves as the purpose
of synchronizing mobile hosts’ clocks. This beacon also inhibits other hosts from sending their
beacons. To avoid collisions among beacons, a host should wait a random number of slots between
0 and 2× CWmin − 1 before sending out its beacon.
After the beacon, a host with buffered unicast packets can send a directed ATIM to each of
its intended receivers in PS mode during the ATIM window to inform the receivers that there
are buffered packets for them. A directed ATIM should be acknowledged immediately. If no
acknowledgement is received, the ATIM shall be retransmitted using the DCF access procedure.
A station transmitting an ATIM shall remain awake for the entire current beacon interval. If a
station has buffered mutlicast frames, it shall transmit an appropriate addressed multicast ATIM.
Multicast ATIM frames shall not be acknowledged. Immediately following the ATIM window, a
station shall begin transmitting buffered multicast frames. Following the transmission of multicast
frames, unicast packets can then be sent based on the DCF access procedure.
4
Based on the above guidelines, three power-saving protocols, namely dominating-awake-interval,
periodically-fully-awake-interval, and quorum-based protocols, each with a different wake-up pat-
tern for PS hosts, are proposed in [13]. These protocols need not to synchronize any host and are
shown to be energy efficient with reasonable route establishment probability. With a similar idea,
an asynchronous PS protocol for multi-hop ad hoc networks is proposed in [14]. It formulates
the problem of generating wakeup schedules as a block design problem in combinatorics, so that
it can derive the theoretical bound for wakeup schedule problem. To improve the work in [13],
several efficient asynchronous quorum-based PS protocols are proposed in [15]. This paper cor-
relates the asynchronous PS problem to the concept of quorum systems and identifies a rotation
closure property for quorum systems. It is shown that any quorum system satisfying this property
can be translated to an asynchronous PS protocol for MANETs. This paper identifies a group of
quorum systems that are optimal or near optimal in terms of quorum sizes (the grid quorum sys-
tem, the torus quorum system, the cyclic quorum system, and the finite projective plane quorum
system), which can be translated to efficient asynchronous PS protocols. A new e-torus quorum
system, which can be translated to an adaptive protocol, allows designers to trade hosts’ neighbor
sensibility for power efficiency. A host can dynamically adjust its beacon rate according to its
mobility.
4 Research Methodologies
The goal of our PS protocol is to achieve the power efficiency of the synchronous PS protocol,
while still being able to be applied to a multi-hop MANET. In our protocol, each PS host will
switch between synchronous and asynchronous PS protocols according to the arrangement of the
cluster head or probability. If the PS host is in the detecting mode, it will adopt the asynchronous
PS protocol; otherwise, it will adopt the synchronous PS protocol.
The key ideas of the proposed cluster-based semi-asynchronous power-saving protocols are
partitioning the network into several clusters and synchronizing all the hosts in the same cluster.
The host with the fastest clock among all its neighbors will be chosen as the cluster head and each
6
may vary for different protocols (to be elaborated later). The active window is the extra active
period that the PS host should turn on its receiver to listen to any packet and take proper actions.
The synchronous window is for the cluster head to send its beacon, while the beacon window is
for the other PS hosts to send their beacons. The MTIM window is for other hosts to send their
MTIM frames to the PS host. MTIM frames serve the similar purpose as ATIM frames in IEEE
802.11. To avoid collisions among beacons/MTIMs, a host should wait for a random number of
slots before sending out its beacon/MTIMs. During the synchronous window, the random number
is between 0 and CWmin − 1; while in the beacon and MTIM windows, the random number is
between 0 and 2× CWmin − 1.
When staying in normal mode, the host adopts the synchronous PS protocol. The structure of
the synchronous interval is similar to that of IEEE 802.11, each interval starts with a synchronous
window followed by an MTIM window. When switching to detecting mode, the host may adopt the
periodically-fully-awake-interval or quorum-based protocols [13]. When the periodically-fully-
awake-interval protocol is adopted, the beacon intervals are classified as low-power and fully-
awake intervals. The fully-awake intervals arrive periodically every p intervals, and the rest of the
intervals are low-power intervals. The structures of these beacon intervals are defined as follows.
• Each low-power interval starts with a synchronous window followed by a beacon window
and an MTIM window. In the rest of the time, the host can go to the sleep mode.
• Each fully-awake interval also starts with a synchronous window followed by a beacon win-
dow and an MTIM window. However, the host must remain awake in the rest of the time.
When the quorum-based protocol is adopted, the beacon intervals are classified as fully-awake
(quorum) and synchronous (non-quorum) intervals.
Figures 1(a), (b), and (c) show the structures of the fully-awake, low-power, and synchronous
intervals, respectively.
8
it can forward messages to its neighboring cluster in the wakeup period of its neighboring
cluster.
• normal host: the cluster member, which is not a gateway, will become the normal host.
The clustering and synchronization algorithm of the proposed protocol are shown as follows:
If the PS host A does not belong to any cluster then
Host A switches to detecting mode and adopts the asynchronous PS protocol to collect the
information about its neighbors until it has been clustered.
If host A realizes that other neighboring hosts’ clocks are faster than its own clock then host
A adjusts its own clock as the fastest clock of the neighboring host and records the id of the
host with the fastest clock as its own cluster head.
Else host A regards itself as the cluster head.
Endif
If host A has detected at least a neighboring host belonging to other cluster then host A
records the id and clock of the neighboring cluster and regards itself as the gateway.
Endif
Else
Host A switches between normal and detecting modes according the schemes proposed in
section 4.3.
If host A has detected any change of its neighbors then host A attaches the information to
its beacon frame and follows the schemes proposed in section 4.4 to maintain the cluster.
Endif
10
Intra-cluster
Synchronous
Offduty
Constructing new cluster
Serving as a sentry
Inter-cluster
Asynchronous
Figure 2: Switching between two PS modes.
• sensitive to neighbor change: each cluster should be able to detect the change of neighboring
clusters. For any two asynchronous sentries, if their duty time are overlapping, they would
have chance to detect each other.
• energy efficient: the proposed protocol should be more efficient than the asynchronous PS
protocol in terms of energy.
• fair: each PS host should have the chance to serve as a sentry.
According to the above features, we propose several schemes for our power mode scheduling
protocol. In the beginning of each round, the PS host decides its power mode according to the
proposed scheduling schemes. There are p beacon intervals in each round, where p is a multiple of
the quorum size or period length of the adopted asynchronous PS protocol. If the PS host switches
to detecting mode and serves as a sentry, it will adopt the asynchronous PS protocol in this round,
otherwise, it will adopt the synchronous PS protocol in this round.
In Figure 3(a) and (b), assuming the PS host decides (or is dispatched) to serve as a sentry
in the first round and become normal host in the second round. The round length is set as 10
beacon intervals. In Figure 3(a), the periodically-fully-awake-interval protocol is adopted as the
asynchronous PS protocol. The fully-awake interval arrives at the first interval and the low-power
interval arrives at the second, third, . . ., and tenth intervals of the first round. In Figure 3(b), the
cyclic quorum scheme [15] is adopted as the asynchronous PS protocol. The quorum interval
arrives at the first, second, third, and sixth intervals of the first round. The synchronous interval
arrives at the other intervals.
To detect the change of neighboring clusters, each cluster should have at least one host to
12
range is r, the probability that the host will switch to detecting mode is (d+ r/2)k/nr. This
scheme is adaptive to host density, mobility and distance, but it is unfair to the host closing
to the border of the cluster. Since the host, which is closer to the border of the cluster, has
higher probability to switch to detecting mode, it consumes more power than the host closer
to the cluster head. However, this scheme is more sensitive to the change of neighboring
clusters.
In a tightly coupled cluster structure, since the cluster head has the knowledge of all its cluster
members, it can use these information to dispatch proper hosts to serve as sentries. The following
are the proposed schemes:
• round-robin-based: each round, the cluster head dispatches k hosts to serve as sentries, where
k is a factor set according to the moving speed of the cluster head. The sentries is dispatched
in a round robin manner. This scheme is simple, fair and can adapt to host density and
mobility.
• neighbor-coverage-based: in this scheme the cluster head needs to maintain the neighbor lists
of all its cluster members. The cluster head dispatches k sentries in each round according
to a greedy algorithm, where k is a factor set according to the moving speed of the cluster
head. Assuming the sets of cluster head’s one-hop and two-hop neighbors are denoted as N1
and N2, respectively. The cluster head first dispatches a host a, which can cover maximum
number of hosts in N2, from N1. And then host a and host a’s neighbors are removed from
N1 and N2, respectively. The rest k − 1 sentries are dispatched with a similar procedure. In
the following rounds, the sets N1 and N2 would be updated, but the removed hosts will not
be added back to sets N1 and N2 until N2 = ∅. When N2 = ∅, the sets N1 and N2 are reset
according to cluster head’s current information. This scheme is adaptive to mobility and
neighboring information, but it can not balance power consumption. Since the cluster head
dispatches sentries according neighbor lists, this scheme is more sensitive to the change of
neighboring clusters.
14
chronous host in other cluster, it will become a gateway. If a gateway is the neighbor of two
different cluster heads and it does not receive the beacon frame sent by its cluster head or
it has received the give-up notification from its cluster head, it can follow its neighboring
cluster’s clock and join that cluster.
• normal host: if the normal host can not receive the beacon frame sent by its cluster head or it
has received the give-up notification from its cluster head, it will switch to detecting mode,
so that it can form a new cluster or join other clusters.
• if the host has no enough remaining power and it does not receive any synchronous beacon
for a round, it indicates that all its neighbors do not have enough remaining power. Hence, it
will contend to be the cluster head again.
• In a tightly coupled cluster structure, any change should be notified to the cluster head and
the cluster head should maintain the information (such as id, location, role and neighbor list)
of all its cluster members.
4.5 Routing Protocols for the Proposed Power-Saving Protocol
When transmitting packets to the PS host in the same cluster, we can adopt the unicast protocol of
IEEE 802.11’s PS protocol. For inter-cluster communication, the anycast protocol can be adopted.
It is similar to the unicast protocol in IEEE 802.11’s PS protocol, except that the destination host’s
id is replaced by the destination cluster’s id. During the destination cluster’s MTIM window, the
sender contends to send its MTIM packet to the destination cluster. Any of the host belonging
to the destination cluster received the MTIM packet would reply an ACK after an SIFS and stay
awake in the remaining of the beacon interval. If the sender hears a busy tone after the MTIM
packet has been sent, it will adopt the DCF procedure to send the buffered packet to the receiver
after the MTIM window. With the antcast protocol, each host needs not to be very sensitive to
the change of neighbors. As for the broadcast protocol, since all the hosts in the same cluster are
synchronized, we can adopt the broadcast protocol of IEEE 802.11’s PS protocol.
16
5 Research Results
To evaluate the performance of the proposed PS protocol, we have developed a simulator using C.
In the simulations, we assume that the area size is 1000m × 1000m, and the transmission radius
is 250 meters. Hosts’ transmission rate is 2M bits/sec, and the battery power of each mobile
host is 100 J . The MAC part basically follows the IEEE 802.11 standard [17], except the power
management part. For the proposed PS protocols, the routing protocol proposed in section 4.5 is
adopted; for asynchronous PS protocols, the AODV routing protocol is adopted. When the route is
detected to be broken, the data packets would be dropped. The periodically-fully-awake-interval
and cyclic quorum protocols are adopted as the asynchronous PS protocols. The source and the
destination of each route are randomly selected. Four parameters are tunable in our simulations:
• Traffic load: Routes are generated by a Poisson distribution with rate between 1∼ 5 routs/sec.
For each route, 40 packets, each of size 256 bytes, will be sent.
• Mobility: Host mobility follows the random way-point model. The pause time is set to 30
seconds. When moving, a host will move at a speed between 0 ∼ 20 m/sec.
• Beacon interval: The length of one beacon interval is 100 ∼ 500 ms.
• Number of hosts: The total number of mobile hosts in the MANET is 50 ∼ 250 hosts.
Basically, each simulation lasts until all the hosts have run out of energies. Each result is
obtained from the average of 100 simulation runs. For simplicity, we assume that all hosts are in
the PS mode.
Three performance metrics are used in the simulations:
• survival ratio: the number of surviving hosts over the total number of hosts. (A host is said
to be surviving if its power is not exhausted yet.)
• Throughput: the average number of MAC-layer data packets successfully received in the
network per second. The throughput is evaluated up to the time when any of the host run out
of energy.
18
Table 3: Average neighboring cluster discovery time. (beacon interval = 100 ms, 100 hosts, traffic
load = 1 route/sec, moving speed = 0 m/sec, period length = 5, quorum size = 35)
Protocol PROB SNR RRB NCB LCB
Periodically-Fully-Awake 1268 ms 1043 ms 1751 ms 1298 ms 1093 ms
Cyclic Quorum Scheme 6102 ms 5012 ms 8426 ms 6246 ms 5345 ms
Figure 5: Throughput vs. mobility. (beacon interval = 100 ms, 100 hosts, traffic load = 1 route/sec)
of neighboring cluster. Therefore, we only compare the SNR-probability-based and location-based
schemes. To make comparison, we also simulate the two asynchronous PS protocols: periodically-
fully-awake interval and cyclic quorum scheme. Since the active ratios of the periodically-fully-
awake interval with period length 5 and cyclic quorum scheme with quorum size 35 are almost
the same (1
5
), the round lengths are set as 5 and 35 beacon intervals when periodically-fully-awake
interval and cyclic quorum scheme are adopted, respectively.
For simplicity, the asynchronous PS protocols, periodically-fully-awake-interval protocol with
parameter p and the cyclic quorum scheme with parameter n, are denoted as P (p) and C(n),
respectively. The SNR-probability-based scheme adopting P (p) and C(n) as the asynchronous
PS protocols are denoted as PSNR(p) and CSNR(n), respectively. The location-based scheme
adopting P (p) andC(n) as the asynchronous PS protocols are denoted as PLCB(p) andCLCB(n),
respectively.
20
Figure 7: Survival ratio vs. mobility. (a)moving speed = 0 m/sec, and (b)moving speed = 20 m/sec.
(beacon interval = 100 ms, 100 hosts, traffic load = 1 route/sec)
hosts to act as sentries and thus consume more power. However, the route is more likely to be
broken in high mobility environment and thus less data packets are transmitted and less power is
consumed. The hosts adopting the proposed schemes survive much longer than the hosts adopt-
ing the asynchronous schemes, because the broadcasting cost is much lower and only a few PS
hosts need to serve as sentries by adopting asynchronous PS protocol. In the proposed schemes,
since most of the PS hosts adopt the synchronous PS protocol for most of the lifetime and lots
of redundant transmissions are reduced, lots of power can be conserved. The hosts adopting the
location-based scheme survive a little longer than the hosts adopting the SNR-probability-based
scheme. When the location-based scheme is adopted, the cluster head will assign proper gateways
to transmit packets to neighboring clusters and thus reduce more redundant transmissions than the
SNR-probability-based scheme.
22
Figure 9: Throughput vs. traffic load. (beacon interval = 100 ms, 100 hosts, mobility = 10 me-
ters/sec)
Figure 10: Lifetime throughput vs. traffic load. (beacon interval = 100 ms, 100 hosts, mobility =
10 meters/sec)
of throughput.
5.3 Impact of Beacon Interval Length
Figure 11 shows that longer beacon intervals may lengthen the lifetime of the network, because the
ratio of awake time for each host becomes smaller. However, longer beacon intervals may increase
the broadcasting (and thus route discovery) cost of asynchronous schemes, and thus decrease the
lifetime of the network. Overall, the proposed schemes outperform the asynchronous schemes in
terms of network lifetime.
Figure 8 shows how the length of beacon interval affects the throughput of hosts. As the
24
Figure 13: Lifetime throughput vs. beacon interval length. (100 hosts, traffic load = 1 route/sec,
moving speed = 10 m/sec)
length of beacon interval increases, the route establishment time becomes longer and the route
establishment probability drops, and thus lowers the throughput of hosts. When considering the
lifetime throughput, the length of the beacon interval can be set as 200 ms, because it can bal-
ance the throughput and lifetime of the network as shown in Figure 13. Overall, the proposed
schemes outperform the asynchronous schemes in terms of lifetime throughput significantly. The
proposed schemes adopting the cyclic quorum protocol perform better than the schemes adopting
the periodically-fully-awake protocol in terms of throughput and lifetime throughput.
5.4 Impact of Host Density
In this experiment, we fix the network size and vary the total number of hosts between 50 ∼ 250.
Figure 8 shows how the host density affects the survival ratio of hosts. For the asynchronous
scheme, higher density may bring down the network lifetime. When the node density becomes
higher, the broadcast cost to discover routes will become higher, because more hosts will help
searching for routes and thus each host will be waken up more times. As for the proposed schemes,
higher density may lengthen the network lifetime, because more hosts have more aggregate power.
Besides, redundant transmissions are reduced, such that the route establishment cost will not be-
come higher even the host density becomes higher.
The effect of host density on throughput is shown in Figure 15. For the asynchronous scheme,
26
Figure 16: Lifetime throughput vs. node density. (beacon interval = 100 ms, traffic load 1
route/sec, mobility = 10 meters/sec)
the host density has negative effects on throughput. In a denser network, collision and congestion
may become reasons that cause route establishment failure and thus lower down the throughput. As
for the proposed scheme, the network with proper host density gains the best throughput, because
higher density will cause more collisions and lower density will bring some articulation points to
hinder the success of route establishment. The proposed schemes still outperform the asynchronous
schemes in terms of lifetime throughput as shown in Figure 16, because the proposed schemes
possess a longer network lifetime and a better throughput than the asynchronous schemes. Overall,
the proposed schemes have a better scalability than the asynchronous schemes. The location-based
scheme performs slightly better than the SNR-probability-based scheme in terms of survival ratio,
and the SNR-probability-based scheme performs better than the location-based scheme in terms of
throughput and lifetime throughput.
6 Conclusions and Discussions
In this research, we have addressed the problems of asynchronous PS protocols in a multi-hop
MANET. We have pointed out two major drawbacks. First, the host needs to keep awake for
longer time, so as to discover asynchronous PS neighbors. Besides, a broadcasting message has
to be sent multiple times if a sending host’s neighbors wake up asynchronously. To conquer the
deficiency of asynchronous PS protocols, we propose several cluster-based semi-asynchronous
28
[5] C. F. Huang, Y. C. Tseng, S. L. Wu, and J. P. Sheu, “Increasing the Throughput of Multihop
Packet Radio Networks with Power Adjustment,” International Conference on Computer,
Cummunication, and Networks, 2001.
[6] J. H. Ryu and D. H. Cho, “A New Routing Scheme Concerning Power-Saving in Mobile
Ad-Hoc Networks,” Proc. of IEEE International Conference on Communications, vol. 3, pp.
1719–1722, 2000.
[7] J. H. Ryu, S. Song, and D. H. Cho, “A Power-Saving Multicast Routing Scheme in 2-tir
Hierarchical Mobile Ad-Hoc Networks,” Proc. of IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference,
vol. 4, pp. 1974–1978, 2000.
[8] S. Singh, M. Woo, and C. S. Raghavendra, “Power-Aware Routing in Mobile Ad Hoc Net-
works,” Proc. of the International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, pp.
181–190, 1998.
[9] S. Singh and C. S. Raghavendra, “Power Efficient MAC Protocol for Multihop Radio Net-
works,” Proc. of IEEE International Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications
Conference, pp. 153–157, 1998.
[10] B. Chen, K. Jamieson, H. Balakrishnan, and R. Morris, “Span: An Energy-Efficient Coor-
dination Algorithm for Topology Maintenance in Ad Hoc Wireless Networks,” Proc. of the
International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, pp. 85–96, 2001.
[11] Y. Xu, J. Heidemann, and D. Estrin, “Geography-informed Energy Conservation for Ad Hoc
Routing,” Proc. of the International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking, pp.
70–84, 2001.
[12] Y.-C. Tseng and T.-Y. Hsieh, “Fully Power-Aware and Loccation-Aware Protocols for Wire-
less Multi-hop Ad Hoc Networks,” I EEE ICCCN, 2002.
30
 32
計畫成果自評： 
本研究計畫之內容與原計畫完全相符，並大致上達成預期之目標，已達成之目標分述如下： 
1.已完成之工作項目： 
z 叢集架構建立與維護之演算法設計。 
z 半非同步省電協定之設計。 
z 派遣尖兵之策略設計。 
z 省電無線網路遶徑協定之設計。 
z 模擬程式之撰寫與結果分析。 
2.對於學術研究方面之貢獻： 
z 學術研究：本研究案部分成果已發表於 IEEE International Conference on Communications, 
pp. 3166-3170, 2005 (論文請參閱附錄)，完整之研究成果則已投稿至Journal of Computer 
Communications, Elseiver (EI, SCIE)。 
z 其他應用：模擬結果顯示本省電協定確可延長行動通訊裝置的運作時間並節省電源。 
3.參與之工作人員所獲得之訓練。 
z 瞭解無線區域網路IEEE 802.11 標準的運作方式。 
z 瞭解無線區域網路的各種省電策略。 
z 增加無線區域網路省電協定之設計與分析能力。 
z 撰寫模擬程式與分析省電協定之效能。 
clock among all its neighbors will be chosen as the cluster head
and each host will follow the clock of its cluster head. Since
the distance between the cluster head and cluster member is
only single hop, it would be much easier for the cluster head to
synchronize all the hosts in the same cluster. When all hosts in
the same cluster are synchronized, each PS host can adopt the
synchronous PS protocol (eg. IEEE 802.11’s PS protocol) as
its intra-cluster protocol, so that it can conserve more power.
If we regard each cluster as a super node, the clustering
MANET can be regarded as a network consists of several
asynchronous super nodes. Therefore, how to design the inter-
cluster strategy, so that the asynchronous super nodes (clusters)
can detect each other, is an important issue. Each of the super
node (cluster) may adopt the asynchronous PS protocol to
detect its asynchronous neighbors. Since each cluster may
consist of several PS hosts, it is not necessary for every cluster
member to adopt the asynchronous PS protocol simultane-
ously. The members of each cluster may serve as watchers
by adopting the asynchronous PS protocol in turn. The PS
host not serving as watchers may adopt the synchronous
PS protocol. Each PS host can adopt either synchronous or
asynchronous PS protocols according to the schemes proposed
in section II-B.
Because the paper length is limited and the clustering
problem of MANET has been studied extensively [8], we will
not discuss how to cluster the MANET in this paper. In the
following subsections, we will first show the channel model
of our protocol. Then two schemes are proposed to guide the
scheduling of PS modes.
A. Channel Model
Since the proposed PS protocol is cluster-based and semi-
asynchronous, its channel model is different from that of IEEE
802.11 and asynchronous protocols. To maintain the cluster
structure and synchronize the hosts in each individual cluster,
the structure of beacon interval needs to be redesigned.
Each beacon interval may contain four different windows,
namely active window, synchronous window, beacon window,
and MTIM (Multi-hop TIM) window. The structure of a beacon
interval may vary for different protocols (to be elaborated
later). The active window is the extra active period that the
PS host should turn on its receiver to listen to any packet and
take proper actions. The synchronous window is for the cluster
head to send its beacon, while the beacon window is for the
other PS hosts to send their beacons. The MTIM window is
for other hosts to send their MTIM frames to the PS host.
MTIM frames serve the similar purpose as ATIM frames in
IEEE 802.11. To avoid collisions among beacons/MTIMs, a
host should wait for a random number of slots before sending
out its beacon/MTIMs.
Normally, the host adopts the synchronous PS protocol.
The structure of the synchronous interval is similar to that
of IEEE 802.11, each interval starts with a synchronous
window followed by an MTIM window. When serving as
a watcher, the host may adopt the periodically-fully-awake-
interval or quorum-based protocols [4]. When the periodically-
Beacon Interval
Fully-Awake Interval
(a) (b)
Beacon Interval
Low-Power Interval
(c)
Beacon Interval
Synchronous Interval
MTIM Window ActiveWindowSynchronous Window Beacon Window
Fig. 1. (a).Fully-awake interval, (b).Low-power interval (c).Synchronous
interval
fully-awake-interval protocol is adopted, the beacon intervals
are classified as low-power and fully-awake intervals. The
fully-awake intervals arrive periodically every p intervals, and
the rest of the intervals are low-power intervals. The structures
of these beacon intervals are defined as follows.
• Each low-power interval starts with a synchronous win-
dow followed by a beacon window and an MTIM win-
dow. In the rest of the time, the host can go to the sleep
mode.
• Each fully-awake interval also starts with a synchronous
window followed by a beacon window and an MTIM
window. However, the host must remain awake in the
rest of the time.
When the quorum-based protocol is adopted, the beacon in-
tervals are classified as fully-awake (quorum) and synchronous
(non-quorum) intervals.
Fig. 1(a), (b), and (c) show the structures of the fully-awake,
low-power, and synchronous intervals, respectively.
B. Power Mode Scheduling
When a host has idled for a certain period of time, it may
switch to PS mode. The synchronous PS protocol is adopted as
the intra-cluster PS protocol and the asynchronous PS protocol
is adopted as the inter-cluster PS protocol. The PS host follows
the clock of the cluster head to turn on and turn off its
radio periodically. To detect the approaching asynchronous
cluster, some hosts need to serve as watchers by adopting the
asynchronous PS protocol. To conserve energy, the other PS
hosts would adopt the synchronous PS protocol.
The designing features of our protocols are shown as
follows:
• adaptive: the protocol should be adaptive to host density,
mobility, and location.
• sensitive to neighbor change: each cluster should be able
to detect the change of neighboring clusters. For any two
asynchronous watchers, if their duty time are overlapping,
they would have chance to detect each other.
• energy efficient: the proposed protocol should be more
efficient than the asynchronous PS protocol in terms of
power consumption.
According to the above features, we propose two schemes
for our power mode scheduling protocol. In the beginning of
each round, the PS host decides its power mode according to
the proposed scheduling schemes. There are p beacon intervals
in each round, where p is a multiple of the quorum size or
period length of the adopted asynchronous PS protocol. If the
PS host serves as a watcher, it will adopt the asynchronous PS
protocol in this round, otherwise, it will adopt the synchronous
PS protocol in this round.
3167
chosen route receive the route reply packet, it can go to the
active mode.
In a cluster-based network, except the host close to the
border of the network, most of the hosts would become cluster
heads or gateways. To reduce redundant transmissions, two
strategies can be adopted while scattering the route request
packet. In a loosely coupled cluster, each gateway may give up
to send its anycast packet, if it has overheard the same packet,
as its own anycast packet, being sent to the same destination.
In a tightly coupled cluster, the cluster head will assign proper
gateways to transmit packets to neighboring clusters and thus
reduce redundant transmissions.
IV. SIMULATION EXPERIMENTS
To evaluate the performance of the proposed PS protocol,
we have developed a simulator using C. In the simulations,
we assume that there are 100 hosts in the network, the area
size is 1000m × 1000m, and the transmission radius is 250
meters. Hosts’ transmission rate is 2M bits/sec, the length of
the beacon interval is 100 ms, and the battery power of each
mobile host is 100 J . The MAC part basically follows the
IEEE 802.11 standard [9], except the power management part.
For the proposed PS protocols, the routing protocol proposed
in section III is adopted; for asynchronous PS protocols,
the AODV routing protocol is adopted. When the route is
detected to be broken, the data packets would be dropped. The
periodically-fully-awake-interval and cyclic quorum protocols
are adopted as the asynchronous PS protocols. The source
and the destination of each route are randomly selected. Two
parameters are tunable in our simulations:
• Traffic load: Routes are generated by a Poisson distribu-
tion with rate between 1 ∼ 5 routs/sec. For each route,
40 packets, each of size 256 bytes, will be sent.
• Mobility: Host mobility follows the random way-point
model. The pause time is set to 30 seconds. When
moving, a host will move at a speed between 0 ∼ 20
m/sec.
Basically, each simulation lasts until all the hosts have run
out of energies. Each result is obtained from the average of
100 simulation runs. For simplicity, we assume that all hosts
are in the PS mode.
Three performance metrics are used in the simulations:
• survival ratio: the number of surviving hosts over the total
number of hosts. (A host is said to be surviving if its
power is not exhausted yet.)
• Throughput: the average number of MAC-layer data
packets successfully received in the network per second.
The throughput is evaluated up to the time when any of
the host run out of energy.
• Lifetime throughput: the total number of MAC-layer data
packets successfully received during the lifetime of the
network.
The power model in [10] is adopted, which is obtained
by real experiments on Lucent WaveLAN cards. To make
comparison, we also simulate the two asynchronous PS proto-
cols: periodically-fully-awake interval [4] and cyclic quorum
(a ) (b)
Fig. 4. (a).Throughput vs. mobility. (b).Lifetime throughput vs. mobility.
scheme [6]. Since the active ratios of the periodically-fully-
awake interval with period length 5 and cyclic quorum scheme
with quorum size 35 are almost the same ( 15 ), the round
lengths are set as 5 and 35 beacon intervals when periodically-
fully-awake interval and cyclic quorum scheme are adopted,
respectively.
For simplicity, the asynchronous PS protocols, periodically-
fully-awake-interval protocol with parameter p and the cyclic
quorum scheme with parameter n, are denoted as P (p)
and C(n), respectively. The SNR-probability-based scheme
adopting P (p) and C(n) as the asynchronous PS proto-
cols are denoted as PSNR(p) and CSNR(n), respectively.
The location-based scheme adopting P (p) and C(n) as the
asynchronous PS protocols are denoted as PLCB(p) and
CLCB(n), respectively.
A. Impact of Mobility
To observe the effect of mobility, we fix the traffic load as
1 route/sec and vary hosts’ moving speed between 0 ∼ 20
m/sec. Fig. 4(a) shows the impact of mobility on throughput.
Mobility has a negative impact on throughput for all schemes
because the routes are more likely to be broken as the moving
speed increases, and thus the data packets are more likely
to be dropped. The throughput of the proposed schemes
(e.g. PSNR(5), CSNR(35), PLCB(5), and CLCB(35))
is slightly lower than that of the asynchronous schemes (e.g.
P (5) and C(35)), because the asynchronous schemes adopt
AODV as their routing protocol, which uses flooding to
discover route, and thus are less sensitive to mobility. However,
as Fig. 5 shows, the hosts adopting the proposed schemes
survive much longer than the hosts adopting the asynchronous
schemes. Hence, the lifetime throughput of the proposed
schemes is much better than that of the asynchronous schemes
as shown in Fig. 4(b). Overall, the scheme adopting the cyclic
quorum protocol performs better than the one adopting the
periodically-fully-awake protocol, because the cyclic quorum
scheme transmits less beacons than the periodically-fully-
awake scheme and thus causes lees interferences and has
a better throughput. The SNR-probability-based scheme per-
forms slightly better than the location-based scheme in terms
of throughput, because the SNR-probability-based scheme is
based on a loosely coupled cluster structure, which is less
sensitive to mobility.
Fig. 5 shows the impact of mobility on survival ratio. Higher
mobility may bring more hosts to act as watchers and thus
consume more power. However, the route is more likely to
3169
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
本次計畫執行期間共參加了 IEEE International Workshop on Multimedia Technology and 
Ubiquitous Computing(SUTC 2006)與 ACM International Wireless Communications & Mobile 
Computing Conference(IWCMC 2006)兩場國際研討會。發表了“A Distributed Location 
Estimating Algorithm for Wireless Sensor Networks”與”An On-Demand Bandwidth Reservation 
QoS Routing Protocol for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks” 兩篇論文(論文內容請參閱附件)。 
SUTC 2006與 IWCMC 2006都可算是無線通訊與行動計算領域的知名研討會，SUTC 
是由 IEEE Computer Society贊助舉辦之研討會，今年剛好由位於台中的亞洲大學爭取到主
辦權，從六月五日至七日於台中金典酒店舉行。除了主研討會之外，另外也附帶舉辦了
Context Aware Ubiquitous Learning (CAUL2006)、Ad Hoc and Ubiquitous Computing 
(AHUC2006)與 Multimedia Technology and Ubiquitous Computing (MTUC 2006)等三場
workshop。國際研討會能在國內舉辦，算是蠻難得的，可節省與會國內學者許多的時間與
金錢，因此，個人蠻希望國內學術單位能多爭取一些國際知名的研討會在國內舉辦。 
參加 SUTC 2006，個人覺得印象最深的是於六月六日下午兩點至三點由台灣大學電機
系的黃寶儀(Polly Huang)教授所主持的 Panel，討論的題目是 Sensor Networks, Is it for real or 
just for research? 參與討論的包括了清華大學的金仲達教授、交通大學的曾煜棋教授與資策
會的張先生等學者與業界代表。他們除了展示自己帶領的團隊以無線感應器製作的系統
外，也針對討論題目發表了自己的意見。展示的作品令我印象較為深刻的包括了台灣大學
的智慧型電梯控制系統、資策會的科博館無線導覽系統。台灣大學的智慧型電梯控制系統
是以無線感應器來感應台大電機系館內電梯的位置與狀況，依據偵測到的狀況來控制電梯
以減少等待電梯的時間並避免無謂的移動電梯。此套系統雖能達到預期效果，然而更換無
線感應器的電池卻是件煩人的差事，由於系統安裝在室內，因此考慮更換為有線的方式來
供電。資策會的科博館無線導覽系統則是靠安裝在室內的感應器網路與使用者手持的 PDA
來偵測出使用者在博物館內的位置，進而從資料庫中顯示(或播放)出該位置展示品的相關資
訊，此外，即時資訊亦可透過簡訊傳至 PDA的方式告知使用者，如需緊急避難時，可依據
使用者所在位置告知使用者最近的逃生路線。針對討論的題目”Sensor Networks, Is it for real 
or just for research?”，與會專家學者都認為目前感應器已大量的使用在工業界，然而在室內
是否需要使用無線感應器則仍有爭議，無線感應器固然較容易佈署，然而有限的通訊能力
A Distributed Location Estimating Algorithm for Wireless Sensor Networks
Jang-Ping Sheu, Jian-Ming Li
National Central University
Department of CSIE
Chung-Li, 320 Taiwan
sheujp@csie.ncu.edu.tw
Chih-Shun Hsu
Nanya Institute of Technology
Department of CSIE
Chung-Li, 320 Taiwan
chison.hsu@msa.hinet.net
Abstract
The location estimation is a fundamental and essential
issue for wireless sensor networks(WSNs). In this paper,
we assume that only a few sensor nodes (named as bea-
con nodes) get their locations by Global Positioning Sys-
tem (GPS) and the remaining nodes without GPS (named as
normal nodes) need to estimate their own locations by gath-
ering the nearby neighboring information. Existing works
are either too costly or not accurate enough. To improve
previous works, we propose a distributed location estima-
tion algorithm for WSNs. In our algorithm, each node with-
out location information only needs to collect the location
information of neighboring nodes and use simple computa-
tion to estimate its location. Besides, we improve the accu-
racy of the normal node’s estimative region by discarding
the communication area of the beacon node (named as the
farther neighboring beacon node), which does not cover the
normal node, from the original estimative region. We de-
rive some rules to adjust the estimative region according
to the relative location of the normal node and the farther
neighboring beacon node. Simulation results show that the
proposed algorithm achieves better accuracy of estimative
locations.
1 Introduction
Many applications and communication protocols [12],
[11], [14] of the wireless sensor networks(WSNs) are based
on the location information of sensor nodes. Therefore, how
to get the location knowledge of sensor nodes based on lim-
ited resources is an important issue for WSNs [7].
Many location estimation algorithms for WSNs have
been proposed recently. The location estimation algorithms
for WSNs can be categorized as range-based and range-free
schemes. The range-based scheme determines the distance
between two different sensor nodes based on a variety of in-
formation, such as Time of Arrival (TOA) [2], Time Differ-
ence of Arrival (TDOA) [11], Angle of Arrival (AOA) [10],
or Received Signal Strength Indicator(RSSI) [6], [1]. Af-
ter the distance has been determined, the location can be
estimated according to the distance information. The esti-
mation of the above time-of-flight technologies can be af-
fected by multi-path and noise. Moreover, these schemes
often need to equip with additional hardware. Conse-
quently, range-based schemes are impractical solutions for
a resource limited wireless sensor networks.
Because of the drawbacks of ranged-based schemes,
many range-free solutions of the positioning system are
presented [9], [10], [3], [5], [13], [8], [4]. Based on the
concept of distance vector routing (DV-routing), the DV
Based Positioning System is proposed in [9], [10]. The
known-location nodes, called anchors, broadcast their posi-
tion packets throughout the network. Like DV-routing, each
other nodes after receiving the location packet will maintain
a shortest hop count table. Based on this method, each an-
chor can convert the distance, in hops, to physical distance
and broadcasts the calculating result to neighboring nodes.
However, the DV-based scheme requires lots of communi-
cations. Additionally, it must work in a network which is
dense enough.
Another range-free location estimation scheme proposed
in [3], named as the Convex Position Estimation algo-
rithm, uses the approximate location information. When an
unknown-position node hears some anchors nearby, it in-
dicates that the unknown-location node must be deployed
within the overlapping area of these anchors’ communica-
tion region. According to these anchors locations and com-
munication ranges, the possible location of the unknown-
location node can be estimated. The Convex Position Esti-
mation algorithm needs a central controller to estimate the
location of every unknown-location node and flood the lo-
cation information to every sensor node. Although the algo-
rithm can compute a global solution, it has a poor scalability
due to the heavy communication cost.
A range-free localization algorithm named as APIT is
proposed in [5]. The APIT scheme repeats the PIT (Point-
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Sensor Networks, Ubiquitous, and Trustworthy Computing (SUTC’06) 
0-7695-2553-9/06 $20.00 © 2006 IEEE 
(1 + 2)
Figure 1. Extend communication range
(1 + 2)
(1+ 2)
2.3 Estimative Rectangle (ER)
1( 1 1 2( 2 2)
( )2 + (
)2 = 2 ( )
( )
( 1)2 + ( 1)2 = 2
( 2)2 + ( 2)2 = 2
1 2
1 2
1 2
1 2
( 1 2)
( )
( )
( ) 1 2
( ( ) ) =
( 1 2) + = ( )
( ( ) ) =
( 1 2) = ( )
( ( ) ) =
( 1 2) + = ( )
( ( ) ) =
( 1 2) = ( )
( 2) = ( 1) 2
( ) ( )
( ) ( )
= max( ) = min( ) = min( )
= max( ) = 1 ( 1) 2
(3 2) = 3
Figure 4. An example of deriving an ER from
three overlapping ERs
Figure 5. An example of a farther neighboring
beacon node covers the ER of a normal node
( ) ( )
= max( 1 2 3) = 3 =
min( 1 2 3) = 3 = min( 1 2 3) =
2 = max( 1 2 3) = 1
2.4 Farther Improve the Accuracy of the
ER
3
3
IEEE 
10
= 1 = +1 ( )2 + ( )2
( )
( )
3.1 Impact of the Ratio of Beacon Nodes
10 10
Figure 8. Ratio of beacon nodes vs. mean er-
ror
Figure 9. The experiment result of mean error
range
3.2 Impact of the Density of Sensor Nodes
10 10
IEEE 
An On-Demand Bandwidth Reservation QoS Routing Protocol for Mobile Ad
Hoc Networks
Chih-Shun Hsu
Nanya Institute of Technology
Department of CSIE
Chung-Li, 320 Taiwan
johnson@nanya.edu.tw
Jang-Ping Sheu, Shen-Chien Tung
National Central University
Department of CSIE
Chung-Li, 320 Taiwan
sheujp@csie.ncu.edu.tw
Abstract
QoS routing is the key to support multimedia services in
mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs). It is known that re-
source reservation is one of the best technique to guarantee
QoS in MANETs. Lots of the reservation-based QoS routing
protocols have been proposed before. However, the effective
bandwidth calculation problem and the bandwidth reserva-
tion problem have not been addressed seriously. Here, we
proposed an on-demand bandwidth reservation QoS rout-
ing protocol for TDMA-based multihop MANETs. We pro-
pose an algorithm to guide the destination to choose the
route that is most likely to satisfy the QoS requirement and
an algorithm to reserve the proper time slot and thus keeps
more free time slots for other requests. Simulation results
show that our protocol can achieve high route establishment
probability and low packet loss rate.
1 Introduction
The design of efficient routing protocols is a critical is-
sue for all types of networks. Compared with the tradi-
tional wired network, the mobile ad hoc network (MANET)
has no fixed topology. Therefore, the source-initiated on-
demand routing protocol [10], which establishes the route
between the source and destination only when the source
demands that, becomes the most popular routing protocol
in the MANET. However, these on-demand routing proto-
cols use the best-effort approach to transmit message and
can not guarantee the quality of the transmission.
As the bandwidth of the wireless channel increased, mul-
timedia services can be provided in the wireless network.
These services require the guarantee of a certain bandwidth
or a bounded delay, otherwise, the quality of these services
will be unacceptable. Therefore, quality of service (QoS)
becomes an important issue in the MANET and the QoS
routing is the most important issue.
In the MANET, since the radio signals within two hops
may interfere with each other, channel reservation is one of
the best approach to avoid interference. It is shown in [1]
that the best technique to guarantee QoS is attained only
with appropriate resource reservation. Therefore, several
works provide QoS guaranteed transmissions by reserving
resources for the Time Division Multiple Access(TDMA)
based MANETs [4], [9], [8], [7], [5], [2], [11], [12]. These
protocols can avoid contentions and collisions and thus are
more efficient than the other QoS protocols, but they require
the MANET to be synchronized. The major drawback of
these protocols is that they do not provide a clear guide to
reserve proper time slot and thus lower down the route es-
tablishment probability.
To improve previous work, we propose a novel on-
demand bandwidth reservation QoS routing protocol for
TDMA-based MANETs. Our goal is to discover a stable
route, which satisfies the bandwidth requirement. The ma-
jor contributions of this paper are: first, we propose an al-
gorithm to reserve the proper time slot and thus raises the
route establishment probability. Second, we propose an al-
gorithm to guide the destination host to choose the route
that is most likely to satisfy the QoS requirement.
Our QoS routing protocol consists of two phases: The
route discovery and bandwidth reservation phases. In the
route discovery phase, we propose a novel algorithm to cal-
culate the available bandwidth of the possible QoS routes,
so that the destination host can choose the route that is most
likely to satisfy the QoS requirement. After the QoS route
has been chosen, the bandwidth reservation phase follows.
In the bandwidth reservation phase, we propose a novel al-
gorithm to calculate the weight of each available time slot.
The hosts in the QoS route will reserve the time slot with the
lowest weight, which will block the fewest number of free
time slots of neighboring hosts, and thus raises the route
establishment probability. Simulation results show that our
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Sensor Networks, Ubiquitous, and Trustworthy Computing (SUTC’06) 
0-7695-2553-9/06 $20.00 © 2006 IEEE 
•
x x
5
3.2 Fundamental Rules
x x
x[ ] x
x x[ ]
x[ ] x[ ]
x[ ]
x[ ] x[ ]
x[ ]
1
2
1
1
1
1
1
3.3 Route Discovery Phase
x
x( )
x x( )
y x
y x = x( )∩ x( )
y x
( ) = 0
( )
f ( )
y x y x =
x( ) ∩ x( )
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Sensor Networks, Ubiquitous, and Trustworthy Computing (SUTC’06) 
0-7695-2553-9/06 $20.00 © 2006 IEEE 
1 2 1
2
( )
( )
4 4
( ) = 0 5 ( ) =
( ( ) ( )) = (1 5 0 5) = 0 5
( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( )
3.4 Bandwidth Reservation Phase
y y z
z
y z y y
Figure 2. An example of calculating the bot-
tleneck of a path
f ( )
( f ( ) )
yz = y∪ z yz = y∪ z
( )
y y
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Sensor Networks, Ubiquitous, and Trustworthy Computing (SUTC’06) 
0-7695-2553-9/06 $20.00 © 2006
•
∼
•
• ( − )
1 2
4
1 2
4
4.1 Impact of Bandwidth Requirement
∼
Figure 5. Packet loss rate vs. bandwidth re-
quirement (50 hosts, 15 sessions, speed = 5
m/sec)
Figure 6. Route establishment probability vs.
mobility (50 hosts, 15 sessions, 5000 pack-
ets/session, speed = 10 m/sec)
4.2 Impact of Mobility
Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Sensor Networks, Ubiquitous, and Trustworthy Computing (SUTC’06) 
0-7695-2553-9/06 $20.00 © 2006
