 行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告撰寫格式說明 
Preparation of NSC Project Reports 
計畫編號：NSC  95-2221-E-366 -012 
執行期限：95 年 8月 1 日至 96 年 7月 31 日 
主持人：洪盟峰   樹德科技大學資訊工程系 
共同主持人：郭耀煌   國立成功大學資訊工程系 
吳鴻志   樹德科技大學資訊工程系 
計畫參與人員：林承佑、洪義翔、李明航 
 
 
中文摘要 
在原先所提三年計畫中，將針對數位家庭
的網路、設備與服務三個層次的技術課題加
以研究，以便能夠發展一個可靠且便利的智
慧型家庭網路，植基於上開發多網路與家電
控制服務應用。在今年計畫中，我們首先對
於網路層與設備層來探討如何在家庭環境
開發具有自動配置的管理能力的智慧型多
媒體終端設備。我們利用 IETF 所提出的零
設定協定，開發出一套自動化家用多媒體服
務系統。透過零設定協定，可以達到設備置
動尋找、配置、服務自動組態與啟動。在此
一計畫中，我們利用 mDNS 的技術提供服
務內容的索引服務，也大幅改善，過去，同
類型方法所常使用的廣播方式，有效降低網
路的流量負荷，為未來的數位家庭技術，提
供另一種更有效率的方法 
Abstract 
In this report, a zero-conf networking 
approach with open source code to 
multimedia service is developed and a 
self-managed multimedia service system is 
presented. The goal of zero-conf networking 
technique is to enable the automatic 
configuration of network devices, automatic 
service recovery, and automatic service 
conduct without professional operators 
involved. Zero-conf networks greatly reduce 
the inconvenience caused by the 
deployments of networks and services, ease 
the service access of users and improve the 
efficiency of multimedia service networks. 
Zero-conf networking technique not only 
benefits the promising digital home 
applications but also the applications on Ad 
hoc networks. In the implemented 
multimedia service system, users enjoy the 
simple and effective operational interface to 
retrieve the multimedia content from 
network without professional configuration. 
Experimental results demonstrate that the 
implemented system has the advantages of 
(1) easy user interface (2) low system 
resource requirement (3) high throughout of 
multimedia services (4) automatic service 
discovery. Besides, the performance of the 
Bonjour is also evaluated in various 
dimensions of server resource and network 
bandwidth to explore the critical factors of 
designing a multimedia service on 
zero-configuration networks. 
 
Keywords: Computer network, 
Zero-configuration network, Multicast DNS, 
Multimedia service, Self-management. 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Recently, the exponential-growth of 
Internet population and the continuous 
updating of Internet services drive the 
operations of networks and computers from 
professionals to public. In current Internet, 
TCP/IP protocol is the base of Internet, 
however the IP configuration of hosts 
traditionally either is manipulated by a 
detect and retrieve available device/service 
information. Thus, the reliability of UPnP is 
better than SLP but more network 
bandwidth is consumed than SLP did.  
 
Bonjour [5] is architected by Apple Inc, 
in another name of Zero configuration 
networking, (ZeroConf). ZeroConf working 
group was organized in 2004 by IETF. 
According to ZeroConf definitions, there are 
three steps to achieve zero configuration on 
IP networks; (1) addressing (2) name 
mapping and (3) service discovery. 
Addressing is to determine the unique 
address of new-attaching network. Name 
mapping is the mechanism offering a 
name-to-address mapping service. Through 
name-mapping, users may access 
service/content on networks in host name, 
instead of host address. mDNS [7] is the key 
component to offer name-mapping service 
for users in a network. mDNS is the 
extension of legacy DNS with additional 
service records. Service records will not 
only maintain address information but also 
service information, including service 
attributes, usage and available operations. 
Due to the compatibility with legacy DNS, 
mDNS will be established either in a 
stand-alone host or in a legacy DNS. 
Through mDNS service, users may send 
service queries to mDNS to find the address 
of content server. Even when mDNS server 
is not present, the name-mapping service is 
still done by a series of multicast messages. 
In this report, a mDNS-based Home 
Multimedia Streaming Services is developed 
and analyzed 
 
3. mDNS-based Self-Configuration of 
Multimedia Streaming Services  
(mSMSS) 
 
In this section, an mDNS-based 
Self-managed multimedia streaming 
services (mSMSS) developed by using 
open-source software components is 
presented. The presented system 
demonstrates the valuable features of (1) 
automatic addressing of new-attached 
network devices, (2) automatic service 
discovery and (3) automatic service access. 
The system architectures of content server 
and client are depicted in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, 
respectively. To demonstrate the low 
computation cost of the proposed system, 
both server and client are developed on 
low-end personal computers with 533MHz 
clock. There are three software components 
developed in the server site; Darwin 
streaming server, Darwin admin web 
interface and mDNS modules. Streaming 
server is responsible for the offering of 
streaming service. Admin web interface is a 
web-based management interface for system 
managers. In the client, mDNS client 
module and GTK-based graphic user 
interface are developed for the automation 
management. The detail operations of server 
and client are illustrated in the order of 
addressing, service discovery and service 
access, as follows. 
So far, there are two popular methods of 
addressing; DHCP and BOOTP, most hosts 
in a local IP network with either DHCP or 
BOOTP service will obtain a unique and 
workable IP address. However, in a network 
without DHCP and BOOTP services, how to 
obtain a unique IP address is a challenge. In 
this presented system, the IP address of a 
new-attached host is determined by the 
following three steps as shown in Fig. 3. 
 
a. The host issues a DHCP service request. 
If the issue is timeout, a link-local 
addressing will be done as the next step 
b. The host will randomly select an IP 
address of 169.254.0.0/16 and broadcast 
an ARP request message in the name of 
this address.  
c. If the ARP request is not response, the 
uniqueness of this address is verified, 
otherwise repeat the step (b). 
 
After the above three steps, any 
new-attached host can determine its unique 
address by its own if the network is not full 
of hosts. Although the addressing of new 
hosts is solved, host in a local network does 
not know which host owns service content, 
bit rate will be varying with the complexity 
of the encoded data. In this experiment, 
identical streams are transported to various 
clients. As the outbound media streams have 
an increase of one stream at one time, the 
average increases are between 300Kbps and 
400Kbps. Thus, there will be a bandwidth 
demand of 2400Kbps in maximum to 
support 6 MPEG-4 streams in a home 
network. Certainly, the transported media 
quality will affect the bandwidth request. 
When the media format is asked for a 
resolution of 1280x720 and a frame rate of 
30fps, the required bandwidth will be 18 
Mbps.  
 
5. Conclusions 
 
In this report, a self-configuration home 
multimedia service system is presented to 
demonstrate the conceptual operations of 
automated digital homes. First, an auto-IP 
mechanism is used to identify the 
uniqueness of various hosts on a local 
network of home. Second, the 
implementation employees a mDNS 
approach to offer the services of naming, 
service registration, service discovery and 
service access. An alternative with 
distributed mDNS design is also illustrated. 
The realized service system has the 
following features; (1) friendly user 
interface, (2) automatic device/network 
configuration (3) scalable system 
implementation and (4) low requirement of 
computation resource. In future, addition to 
multimedia streaming service, more possible 
home applications, such as appliance control, 
and intelligent information services will be 
the target to be developed on this platform.  
 
6. References 
 
[1] Y. H. Kuo and M. F. Horng, “S new era 
of digital living,” Chinese Institute of 
Electrical Engineering Magazine,” pp. 
16-21, 2004 
[2] C. Perkins and E. Guttman, “DHCP 
Options for Service Location Protocol,” 
IETF, RFC 2610, June 1999. 
[3] E. Guttman, “Service location protocol: 
automatic discovery of IP network 
services,” IEEE Internet Computing, Vol. 
3, No. 4, pp. 71-80, 1999. 
[4] The UPnP™ Forum “UPnP Device 
Architecture 1.0” Version1.0.1, May 2003 
[5] Apple Darwin kernel, http://developer. 
apple.com/ 
[6] IETF Zero Configuration Networking 
Working Group, http://www.zeroconf.org 
[7] Multicast DNS, http://files.multicastdns 
/.org 
[8] Maurizio Giordano, “DNS-Based 
Discovery system in Service Oriented 
Programming,” Advances in Grid 
Computing, Lecture Notes in Computer 
Science, Vol. 3470, Springer Berlin 
/Heidelberg, 2005.  
[9] P. C. Huang, K. R. Lee, W. T. Su, Y. H. 
Kuo, M. F. Horng, C. C. Lin and Y. C. 
Chen, “Control Component Development 
of Information Appliances on Networks,” 
Journal of Information Science and 
Engineering, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 771-784, 
2006. 
 
 
 
      Table 1 System performance 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 System architecture of content server. 
 
Number of concurrent Flows Index 
1 2 3 4  5  6 
CPU Util. 
% 
20 22 24 27 29 32 
Throughput 
(KBps) 
400 700 1050 1350 1700 2100
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ■可技術移轉                                日期：96 年 8 月 1 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：具有自有管理能力之數位家庭多媒體網路服務系統  
計畫主持人: 洪盟峰        
計畫編號：NSC  95-2221-E-366 -012            
學門領域：資訊學門 
技術/創作名稱 具有自有管理能力之數位家庭多媒體網路服務系統 
發明人/創作人 洪盟峰、郭耀煌、吳鴻志、洪義翔、林承祐、李明航 
中文： 
我們利用 IETF 所提出的零設定協定，開發出一套自動化家用多媒
體服務系統。透過零設定協定，可以達到設備置動尋找、配置、服
務自動組態與啟動。在此一計畫中，我們利用 mDNS 的技術提供
服務內容的索引服務，也大幅改善，過去，同類型方法所常使用的
廣播方式，有效降低網路的流量負荷，為未來的數位家庭技術，提
供另一種更有效率的方法 
 
 技術說明 
英文： 
In the presented self-managed multimedia service system, users enjoy 
the simple and effective operational interface to retrieve the multimedia 
content from network without professional configuration. Experimental
results demonstrate that the implemented system has the advantages of 
(1) easy user interface (2) low system resource requirement (3) high 
throughout of multimedia services (4) automatic service discovery. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
數位家庭多媒體設備 
資訊家電 
技術特點 
零設定 
設備組態自動化 
服務搜尋自動化 
推廣及運用的價值
大量使用開放源碼，有效降低產品開發時間。其功能易能符合未來
數位生活的娛樂需要 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
附件二 
