行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
生醫感測網路上身晶片系統--子計畫一： 
近身生醫感測收發單晶電路 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫  ■整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-153-MY3 
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日 至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：呂學士 
共同主持人：邱弘緯 
   計畫參與人員：黃毓傑、郭柏宏、吳旻信、許升睿、張碩文、 
              謝丞俊、蘇裕棋 等台灣大學電子所研究生 
 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
 
 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
執行單位：國立臺灣大學電子工程學研究所 
 
中 華 民 國 100 年 10 月 6 日
2 
半波長或四分之一波長。因此若載波頻率很
低，則天線尺寸會很大；而載波頻率若很高，
則功率消耗很大，需要較多的電量。反觀近身
通訊，通訊的效率是和電極表面積大小成正
比，且不需要天線，尺寸大為減小。無線通訊
協定和法規在不同國家是不同的，因此必須符
合其規範，而近身通訊則並無此困擾。此外，
以皮膚作為傳輸介質的損耗比空氣小很多
[2]，較為省電，十分適合可攜式電子產品。
且因近身通訊是以有線方式傳遞，彼此間有較
小的干擾，亦有很好的保密能力。 
隨著日新月異的半導體製造技術發展，使
得系統單晶（System on a Chip, SoC）化的概
念得以實現。另外無線通訊技術與網際網路的
發展亦開啟了許多新的應用範疇，使無線聯網
的概念延伸至傳統電腦應用之外，並擴展至消
費性使用及個人健康照護。而本計畫的目的，
即開發一近身生醫感測晶片系統，以人體皮膚
作為資訊傳輸媒介，發展一具有省電特性、可
整合生物感測器（Biosensor）與嵌入式系統
（Embedded System），進而提供生醫參數監控
功能之系統晶片。此系統晶片可進一步連接行
動裝置（如手機）而實現將生醫資訊經由皮膚
傳輸的方式，整合至網際網路平台。 
三、研究內容 
I. 近身生醫通訊系統單晶片 
我們以台積電0.35 um製程實現一近身生
醫感測單晶電路系統，以人體皮膚作為資訊傳
輸媒介，達成低功率、低成本、小體積並提高
其可適用性及可移植性，可以滿足多種不同應
用所需。其系統架構圖如圖 1 所示，包含 OOK
接收機、OOK 發射機、線性低壓降穩壓器、
類比數位轉換器 (SAR ADC) 及微控制器
(MCU)。由外部 RF 開關切換發射或接收功
能。圖 2 為其晶片照，面積為 2.54 mm x 3.16 
mm。 
 
圖 1. 近身生醫感測系統單晶片架構圖 
 
圖 2. 近身生醫通訊系統單晶片照 
 
以下說明各功能區塊的電路設計: 
接收機 ( OOK Receiver ) 
人體是一個非常複雜、多變而且可能是非
線性的通訊媒介，然而 OOK 調變接收電路只
需判斷訊號功率的有無，且文獻顯示在高頻時
經過人體衰減後的訊號仍在接收機可接收的
靈敏度範圍中，所以適合用於人體傳輸。為了
實現超小的晶片面積和低功率消耗，提出一種
簡單的 OOK 接收電路架構，如圖 3 所示，第
一級為前置放大器(preamplifier)，將所接收的
微小電壓訊號放大；增益級(cascade amplifiers) 
則進一步放大射頻訊號以利下一級電路處
理；經封包檢測電路(envelope detector)整流成
直流訊號後送到比較器(comparator)轉換為數
位訊號，最後經由緩衝器(buffer)輸出。因人
體為高阻抗，故此放大器輸入端須為高阻抗匹
配，從而不需使用晶片內部電感或 bond 線產
生 50 歐姆輸入阻抗匹配，省下大量晶片面
積。 
4 
Features Performance 
Supply Voltage 3V 
Carrier Frequency 403MHz 
Output Power -12 dBm  
Power Consumption 11.9mW  
線性低壓降穩壓器(Low Dropout Regulator) 
為了讓系統應用中的類比電路有一個比
較乾淨的電源，設計了一個 LDO。且對於無
線接收電路及前端放大器，由於其輸入端的訊
號都很微弱，需要一個非常穩定的電壓源以減
輕來自電源的干擾。而為了能對抗温度變異，
在穩壓器也會置入一個能隙參考電壓電路。 
    穩壓器電路如圖 8 所示，其電流主要由一
個大尺寸的 PMOS 電晶體所提供。而為了提
供一個穩定的電壓源 Vout，在 Power PMOS
的閘極上受誤差放大器所調控，此誤差放大器
的一端接來自於 Bandgap 所提供的穩定電壓
源 Vref，而另一端正則接到 Vout 在 R2 與 R1
的分壓點 VFB 上。PMOS 透過 R1、R2 形成
一負迴授路徑，因此 VFB 會被誤差放大器強
迫拉至與 VREF等電位。最後使得
)
1
21(
R
RVVout REF +⋅= 。 
圖 8. 線性低壓降穩壓器電路架構 
10-bit 類比數位轉換器 ( 10-bit SAR ADC ) 
類比數位轉換器所採用的架構是二進位
搜尋式逐步趨近 (Successive Approximation 
Register, SAR)的架構，這個架構的好處是除了
消耗的功率很小，所佔用的晶片面積也小。圖
9 為此 10bit SAR ADC 的電路架構圖，主要包
含有一個比較器，一個邏輯控制器，一個暫存
器，和一組電容陣列。邏輯控制和暫存器合 
 
圖 9.  10bit SAR ADC 電路架構圖 
起來便是圖 9 中的 SAR 邏輯控制單元，而電
容陣列則是當作一個數位類比轉換器(DAC)
使用，將控制單元的數位信號轉成類比電壓信
號，再送到比較器做比較。使用電容橋結構可
以有效節省電容陣列的面積。 
比較器是SAR-ADC中的核心方塊，其正
確性決定整個系統的特性。如圖10 所示，此
比較器由兩個低增益的前端放大器及正回授
的動態閂鎖器（Dynamic latch）所組成。前端
放大器用來放大輸入訊號，然後經動態閂鎖器
分別拉開至VDD和GND以驅動下級的數位電
路。同時前級放大器也具有擋住動態閂鎖器動
作時所產生kickback noise的效果。SR latch用
來儲存比較器輸出結果以減少meta-stability及
與數位電路取值間的race現象。 
 
圖 10. 比較器架構圖 
  比較器佔整個系統中功率消耗比例相當
高，故於比較器中前端放大器皆使用power 
switch的技巧，當比較完成時則power off 前級
放大器。動態閂鎖器則由於其先天的架構使
6 
制。而其總特性規格表如表 4 所列。 
 
圖11. 微處理器架構圖 
表4. MCU特性規格表 
Features Performance 
Type Programmable 
# of instructions 35 
Clock Rate 
Maximum： 40  MHz 
Applied：  4  MHz 
Power Consumption 
Active Mode：1.563 mA 
Idle Mode： 0.042 mA 
(at 4 MHz) 
Design for Test 
Fault Coverage：93.81 % 
A BIST for 2 SRAMs 
(MARCH C-) 
Supply Voltage 2.5 V 
 
II. 近身生醫通訊協定: 
為了完成一個完整之近身生醫感測網
路，除了 RF, Analog 和 Digital 電路外，仍需
制定一個系統觀點的「近身生醫通訊協定」，
整合各個電路的功能，實現一個完備且有效率
節省功率消耗的系統，應用於近端控制中心
(Local Control Center, LCC)及感測子(Sensor 
Node)之間溝通；而且市面上或發展中的生醫
感測網路並沒有一個統一的通訊協定，因此希
望以本團隊對於無線單晶片(RF SoC)及感測
網路(Sensor Network)的經驗，制定一個實
用，且符合生醫訊號網路需求的通訊協定，避
免因缺乏統一標準對於應用上的障礙。以下詳
細介紹所開發之通訊協定: 
通訊規格 
此協定因為應用於生醫領域，所需傳輸之
資料量相對較低，因此為節省晶片之功率消
耗，且為了節省頻率頻道之使用，因此選用固
定之頻率，再利用『時間切割』及『使用 ID』
的方式，控制許多 Sensor Node 之動作及資料
之回傳，不同於頻率之切割方式。 
整體架構說明 
此 一 網 路 結 構 採 基 礎 架 構 網 路
(Infrastructure Mode)，或稱星狀網路 (Star 
Mode)，如圖 12 所示。由一個近端控制中心
(LCC) 直接的來控制所有感測點 (Sensor 
Node)，而 Sensor Node 的動作，及其所感測
到的資訊皆直接傳回 LCC 再傳至後端的資料
庫 Database，因為動作皆由 LCC 控制(LCC 內
可使用軟體控制或微控制器)，因此在 Sensor 
Node 內之控制電路能做到最簡單，消耗最少
的功率；且因為是一對一的資料傳輸，因此感
測的通訊品質更容易掌握，且較不會有資料延
遲的問題，對如心電圖(ECG)這類即時的生醫
訊號，能有較佳的立即準確度；另外因為每個
Sensor Node 皆為獨立控制，因此在功率消耗
的控制上，能達到最佳化的狀態，可避免所有
不必要之浪費。 
 
圖 12. 基礎架構網路(Infrastructure Mode) 
以下將使用幾個不同情境的模式來簡述此一
通訊協定： 
y 情境一 (網路初始成功)： 
當無線生醫網路安裝完成或重新配置，首先，
要先進行註冊(register)的動作，網路 LCC 內
之控制軟體開始使用亂數的方式產生不同的
8 
y 情境五 (要求所有 Sensor Node 動作)： 
由於各種生醫訊號因為醫療的需要，如：需差
動的訊號、需同時間相互配合判斷的生醫訊
號……，因此不同 Node 有需同一時間感測的
必要，因此設計 Broadcast ID 的功能，所有收
到信號的 Sensor Node 皆可接受此一命令，且
執行動作，例如：需同時量測心跳、排汗量來
判別血糖是否過低，即需同時間感測溼度和心
跳數，由 LCC 送出帶有 Broadcast ID 的感測
命令(Detect)，二種 Sensor 同時感測，將資料
儲存於記憶體中，LCC 再分別送出回傳資料
的命令(Report)，各別取回資料，完成整個動
作。 
訊號格式定義(Signal Definition) 
為了使無線訊號和電腦的通訊阜可以直
接連結，因此選用 RS232 的訊號格式，大部
分的電腦、PDA，或其它裝置都可以支援，可
直接進行資料的傳輸，且能使用 USB 
Controller 之 IC 將 RS232 轉換成 USB 的界
面，如圖 17(a)，每個訊號可包含 8 bits 資料，
開頭由一個 Low 訊號(Start Bit)開始，告知將
要開始傳送訊號，最後由一個 High 訊號(Stop 
Bit)告知訊號結束，可得知訊號是否完整。而
因為使用 RS232 之格式，因此所使用之
Receiver 在沒收到訊號時，輸出需為 High。
一個封包即為一組 RS232 的資料，包含 8 bits 
的資料，而整個 signal 可以由許多封包所組
成，如圖 17(b)。Preamble 給予一個 10101010 
的 0、1 切換的訊息，利用切換的過程，讓
UART 能做時脈同步化 (Synchronize)的動
作，更能準取的抓取輸入的訊息，提高傳輸的
效率；Sensor ID 是能讓一個 LCC 能夠在一
個系統裡控制許多 Sensor，做 Sensor Network 
的設計；Gateway ID 是為了 Sensor 避免意外
受到其它 Gateway 所送出的訊息影響，採取的
認證方式，也確保命令或者資料在傳送時的正
確性；Data 為 Sensor 所回傳的資料，包含
Sensor 所感測到的資訊、目前 Sensor 的狀
態、或者是回報 Sensor 的要求；而 CRC-16 是
為了檢查資料正確性。 
 
圖 17. (a)RS232 format (b)封包格式-由 node to 
local control center(LCC) 
III.近身生醫通訊應用模組 
在一個近身生醫通訊的模組中，以前述系
統單晶片為核心，其 IO 格式為通用非同步收
發 傳 輸 器 (Universal Asynchronous 
Receiver/Transmitter, UART)，經由 Prolific 公
司之 PL2303 晶片轉為萬用序列埠(USB)訊號
接入個人數位助理(PDA)。實際製作完成之模
組如圖 18，其上還包含系統所需之時脈電
路，供電電路、開關、LED、外接電阻電容、
小型充電電池、Ag/AgCl 貼片電極以及
EEPROM 等等。其中 EEPROM 是用來儲存
CPU 之韌體以供各種應用所需，模組大小約
為 3cm x 3cm。 
 
圖 18. 製作完成之近身通訊模組 
IV. 系統測試情境-近身心電監測 
由於許多先進國家皆邁入老年化社會，隨
身健康監測越益流行，而健康資訊感測節點通
常位於身體上。利用近身通訊技術，在身體各
處的感測節點即可方便地透過身體傳送感測
生理資訊至智慧型隨身裝置如手機、PDA 進
行資料統整分析與適時提醒；甚者，可以透過
智慧型隨身裝置之遠距無線功能與醫院線，進
行遠距離健康監測。 
(a) 
(b) 
10 
[4] S. J. Song, N. Cho, and H. J. Yoo,, "A 
0.2-mW 2-Mb/s Digital Transceiver Based 
on Wideband Signaling for Human Body 
Communications," IEEE J. Solid-State 
Circuits, vol.42, no.9, pp.2021-2033, Sept. 
2007. 
[5] Y.-T. Lin, Y.-S. Lin, C.-H. Chen, H.-C. 
Chen,Y.-C. Yang, and S.-S. Lu, “A 0.5 V 
Biomedical System-on-a-Chip for 
Intra-body Communication System,” IEEE 
Transactions on Industrial Electronics, 
VOL. 58, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2011. 
LIN et al.: 0.5-V BIOMEDICAL SYSTEM-ON-A-CHIP FOR INTRABODY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM 691
Fig. 1. Conceptual diagram of the proposed human-body communication
network.
[16], an MCU, and an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) [17]–
[20], is demonstrated with a standard 0.18-µm CMOS process
provided by a commercial foundry. Since the provided low-
threshold-voltage MOS transistors exhibit a threshold voltage
(VTH) lower than 0.2 V, the receiver and transmitter in this
paper are designed to be driven at an ultralow voltage of 0.5 V,
i.e., it can be powered by a solar cell. The whole chip size is
only 1.5 mm2, and the power consumption is only 4.535 mW.
Fig. 1 shows the conceptual diagram of the proposed human-
body communication network. The RF gateway is for receiving
commands and transmitting data to a remote personal computer
or cellular phone. The biomedical SOC can take commands
from the RF gateway through human body and activate (or
turn on) the ADC and the transmitter inside the SOC. Then,
the biomedical signal is converted to digital format and trans-
mitted to the RF gateway through human body. With this
transmission approach and the proposed SOC circuit, it is much
more power-efficient than wireless communication using the
air as the transmission medium. Moreover, in comparison with
an equivalent wired system, our system does not need long
copper wires, which makes it more convenient for human-
body applications. This paper is arranged as follows. Section II
Fig. 2. Measured frequency-response characteristics of the human-body
channel.
describes the proposed IBC network and the biomedical SOC
for IBC. Section III introduces the circuit design of the IBC
SOC, which includes a self-mixing receiver, a transmitter, and
the MCU with Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter
(UART). Finally, the experimental results of the self-mixing
receiver and the IBC SOC are discussed in Section IV, followed
by the conclusions in Section V.
II. PROPOSED IBC NETWORK AND THE
IBC BIOMEDICAL SOC
For the optimization of the proposed biomedical SOC for
IBC, the frequency response characteristics of the human-body
channel are investigated as follows. The output of a signal
generator is connected to the forearm by using a Ag/AgCl
electrode. Another electrode, which is attached to the wrist
as a receiver, is connected to a spectrum analyzer. The two
ground electrodes of them are attached to the body as reference
voltage. According to the measurement results in Fig. 2, the
proper frequency band for IBC ranges from 50 to 300 MHz.
The human body behaves as a low-pass filter with a band-
width of about 300 MHz and approximately 7-dB transmission
losses. Moreover, for direct digital data transmission without
modulation, large transmitted voltage is necessary. Therefore,
large voltage or power is required. However, this would be
more harmful to human body. Furthermore, according to the
measurement results in [5], the suitable frequency range for
IBC, i.e., the frequency range corresponding to the lowest
path loss, is from 200 to 600 MHz. Hence, in this paper, the
frequency 200 MHz (i.e., the lowest frequency suitable for IBC
based on this work and [5]) is adopted for low-voltage and low-
power transmission in the human body.
Fig. 3 shows the block diagram of the proposed IBC network,
in which the IBC biomedical SOC is included. The SOC can
be decomposed into two main building blocks, i.e., communi-
cation unit and system control unit. The communication unit
is composed of the novel receiver, low-power transmitter, and
ADC. The system control unit is an MCU with UART. The
MCU can turn on the transmitter and ADC after receiving the
commands. Moreover, identifying different SOC nodes or bio-
medical data is necessary. When the transmitter is turned on, the
LIN et al.: 0.5-V BIOMEDICAL SYSTEM-ON-A-CHIP FOR INTRABODY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM 693
Fig. 6. Circuit diagram of the voltage conversion circuit.
Fig. 7. Circuit diagram of the transmitter.
amplifiers following the LVA provide additional 45-dB voltage
gain. The multiplier proposed in [23] is adopted in this paper
for higher dynamic range and low-voltage operation because of
its parallel connection structure instead of the traditional stack
structure. Voltage swing range of the low-voltage multiplier in-
puts can be up to the supply voltage, while that of the traditional
stack topology is much smaller than the supply voltage. The
simple R4 − C4 low-pass filter retains the dc component signal
while attenuating the 2 · FC term. The differential pair with a
reference voltage functions as a comparator for logic decision,
whereas the two inverters recover original digital information.
Note that, since the MCU is still operated at 1.8 V, voltage
conversion circuit for converting 0.5 to 1.8 V is required. The
proposed voltage conversion circuit is shown in Fig. 6. The
low-threshold-voltage transistors (M1 and M2) are used to be
the differential pair, and the two diode-connected transistors act
as loading components of M1 and M2. Low-threshold-voltage
transistors are very sensitive to voltage difference but breaks
down easily due to high supply voltage (1.8 V). Therefore,
normal threshold voltage transistors are adopted except for M1
and M2. If the input is logic one (0.5 V), the voltage at node
X is low, and the voltage at node Y is high. Meanwhile, the
current (I1) is large, and the voltage at node Z is lowered. Then,
the output node is logic one (1.8 V). On the other hand, if the
input voltage is logic zero, the logic at output node is zero.
B. Transmitter Design
The circuit diagram of the on–off-keying transmitter is
shown in Fig. 7. The on–off-keying transmitter comprises a
ring oscillator, a buffer (source follower), and a class-C power
amplifier (PA). A 200-MHz carrier signal is generated by the
Fig. 8. Block diagram of the MCU. RX and TX represent the receiver and
transmitter, respectively.
ring oscillator, and the on–off-keying modulation is achieved
by turning the ring oscillator on and off. The class-C PA,
consisting of an off-chip surface-mounted-device inductor, a
large n-MOSFET, and a p-MOSFET switch, drives a sinusoidal
current through the surface-mounted-device inductor, which, in
conjunction with the parasitic capacitance of the transistors/die
pads, achieves a narrow bandpass frequency response in PA.
To prevent the data-rate degradation, a p-MOSFET switch is
parallel connected with the inductor, which accelerates the
voltage decline at the output when the input signal changes
from logic one to logic zero [24].
C. MCU With UART
An MCU is designed to control the proper operation of
command receiving and data transmission. The RS-232 com-
munication data format is used to communicate with portable
devices conveniently. There are four proprietary commands to
operate the MCU in four system states: Idle, Convert, Transmit,
and Continue. The Idle command asks the MCU to stay idle.
In the Convert state, the MCU sends an active signal to start
the operation of ADC. The ADC will sample the analog signal
only once and convert the sampled analog signal into 8-b digital
data, which are then stored in the data register inside a Universal
Asynchronous Transmitter. The Transmit command requests
the MCU to transmit the data in data register only once by
the on–off-keying transmitter. The Continue command asks the
MCU to measure and transmit the converted data to the portable
device at the wrist end continuously.
Fig. 8 shows the block diagram of the MCU. The Univer-
sal Asynchronous Receiver receives the command from the
portable device on the wrist end and compares the ID in the
ID Register with what is in the command format. The core
command is stored in the Command Register after its ID
is verified. The Instruction Decoder decodes the instructions
from the Command Register and sends the start signal to the
Data Converter Control and/or the Universal Asynchronous
Transmitter, depending on the contents of the command. The
Data Converter Control controls the successive approximation
ADC through the ADC active pin. After receiving the parallel
8-bit data from ADC, the Universal Asynchronous Transmitter
generates the serial out data in RS-232 format for the on–off-
keying transmitter to transmit.
LIN et al.: 0.5-V BIOMEDICAL SYSTEM-ON-A-CHIP FOR INTRABODY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM 695
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF THE MEASUREMENT AND SIMULATION RESULTS OF THE SELF-MIXING RECEIVER, TRANSMITTER, AND ADC
IV. MEASUREMENT RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
This fully monolithic IBC SOC is implemented in a standard
0.18-µm CMOS process provided by United Microelectronics
Corporation. Fig. 10 shows the die photo of the SOC. The chip
area is only 1.5 mm2, excluding the test pads. Since the ADC in
the system is operated at 1.8 V, the system cannot be powered
solely by a solar cell. Instead, the ADC of the system is powered
by a molecular battery at 1.8 V, while the other parts of the
system are powered by a power supply at 0.5 V. The receiver
consumes 2.9 mW, i.e., its dc bias current is 5.8 mA. To verify
the feasibility of solar cell powering, the receiver has been
tested with a solar cell under a lamp. The power consumption
of the MCU, ADC, and transmitter is 1, 0.135, and 0.5 mW,
respectively. That is, the power consumption of the IBC SOC is
only 4.535 mW.
A. Receiver
The receiver circuit was wire bonded on a printed circuit
board (PCB) for measurement. The test-patterned data are
216 − 1 pseudorandom binary sequence at 5 kb/s to test the sen-
sitivity of the data receiver. The measured bit error rate (BER)
versus input power characteristic of the receiver is shown in
Fig. 11. For a BER of 10−3, the minimum input carrier powers
of −68 and −48 dBm are required for operation at 145 and
433 MHz, respectively. The maximum input power can be up
to −5 (at 145 MHz) and −3 dBm (at 433 MHz), corresponding
to 63 and 45 dB of dynamic range, without any gain control
circuits. This is because the low-voltage multiplier can handle a
wide range of amplified carrier power. The maximum data rate
can be up to 2 Mb/s. Furthermore, the receiver powered by the
solar cell under a lamp has been tested to verify its low-voltage
operation. The successful experimental results shown in Fig. 12
reveal that the receiver architecture is more suitable for portable
or wearable applications compared with the previous works in
[6]–[11]. We believe that, in the near future, the entire system
can be powered by a solar cell when a 0.5-V ADC is available.
The measured results of the receiver, transmitter, and ADC are
summarized in Table I. As can be seen, except the receiver, the
measured results are close to the simulated results. The reason
why the simulation results of the receiver block are so different
from the measurements, i.e., there is large degradation, may
be attributed to the parasitic effects of the wire bonding, the
PCB loss, and neglected process variation in the simulation.
Moreover, it is interesting to analyze which parts of the receiver
block are suitable for operation at low voltages (e.g., 1.2 V)
even if no low-VT devices are used. As can be seen from
Fig. 5, except that the comparator requires supply voltage of
3× VDS, the required supply voltage of all the other parts of
the receiver block is equal or lower than 2× VDS. Since the
LIN et al.: 0.5-V BIOMEDICAL SYSTEM-ON-A-CHIP FOR INTRABODY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM 697
TABLE II
SUMMARY OF THE IMPLEMENTED IBC SYSTEM-ON-A-CHIP AND THE RECENTLY REPORTED IBC TRANSCEIVERS
Fig. 16 shows the biomedical data obtained by the data receiver.
The measured output waveform of recovered biomedical data
can be seen clearly on the screen of the oscilloscope, indicating
that the data receiver recovers the modulated signal very well.
Moreover, to demonstrate the human-body communication
network proposed in Fig. 1, an experiment was designed to
transmit the biomedical signals of electrocardiography (ECG)
by the implemented IBC SOC to a cellular phone through skin.
Note that the electrode of the RF gateway was attached to the
skin of the subject, as shown in Fig. 1. The data receiver in the
RF gateway received ECG signals via the electrode and then
transmitted the signals to the cellular phone. Fig. 17 shows the
experimental results that the ECG signals had been transmitted
successfully by the IBC SOC and finally displayed on the
cellular phone screen. The P , Q, R, S, and T waveforms can
be recognized well due to good transmission quality of this
work. Table II summarizes the performance of the fabricated
SOC transceiver and the comparisons with the performances
in previous publications. Note that VTn + VTp in this work
(∼0.33 V) is lower than the supply voltage of 0.5 V, while
VTn + VTp in [10] and [11] is higher than the supply voltage of
1 V. However, this does not mean that [10] and [11] have more
design challenges and difficulties than this work at RX–TX
level. This is because the transceiver in [10] and [11] comprises
a nonreturn-to-zero data transmitter and a clock and data re-
covery (CDR)-based WBS receiver, in which the CDR is all-
digital sampling and is based on a digitally controlled oscillator
to avoid the performance degradation issue that an analog CDR
should face (due to VTn + VTp that is higher than the supply
voltage). Since no modulation and demodulation are needed for
the transceiver in [10] and [11], it is reasonable that it exhibits
better BER than this work. The reason why OOK transceiver is
adopted in this work is because it has the potential to achieve
a higher date rate if needed. Since the power consumption of
the analog front-end (AFE) of the receiver in [10] and [11] is
not included in the reported power consumption of 0.2 mW, the
total power consumption of the transceiver in [10] and [11] is
not available. However, since it is digital based, after the power
consumption of the AFE is taken into account, it is reasonable
if it is more power efficient than this work.
Furthermore, compared with the corresponding standard de-
vices, low-VT devices suffer from excess of leakage at the same
bias. For example, at a supply voltage of 1.2 V, the simulation
results show that the power dissipation in power-down mode of
the receiver with low-VT devices is 27 µW, which is larger than
that (4 µW) of the receiver with standard devices. However, this
is not necessarily true in the case where a lower bias is adopted
for the low-VT devices. For example, at a supply voltage of
0.5 V, the simulation results show that the power dissipation
in power-down mode of the receiver with low-VT devices is
1.65 µW, which is lower than that (4 µW) of the receiver
with standard devices (at a supply voltage of 1.2 V). That is,
the power dissipation of the SOC in the power-down mode
(∼1.65 µW since the receiver is the main leakage source) is
improved due to its low-voltage operation.
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, for the first time, a small-size (1.5 mm2) and
low-power-consumption (4.535 mW) IBC biomedical SOC,
which includes a receiver, a transmitter, an MCU, and an ADC,
has been demonstrated. Compared with the traditional battery-
powered receiver which needs more than 1-V supply voltage,
the proposed receiver architecture is more suitable for portable
LIN et al.: 0.5-V BIOMEDICAL SYSTEM-ON-A-CHIP FOR INTRABODY COMMUNICATION SYSTEM 699
Hsiao-Chin Chen was born in Taipei, Taiwan, on
October 6, 1976. She received the B.S. and M.S.
degrees in electrical engineering and the Ph.D.
degree in electronics engineering from National
Taiwan University, Taipei, in 1998, 2000, and 2007,
respectively.
From 2000 to 2003, she was with Airoha Tech-
nology Corporation as a Circuit-Design Engineer. In
August 2007, she joined the Department of Electrical
Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science
and Technology, Taipei, where she is currently an
Assistant Professor. Her major research interests are CMOS RF ICs and low-
power transmitter design for RFID.
Yu-Che Yang was born in Taipei, Taiwan, in 1980.
He received the B.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electri-
cal engineering from National Taiwan University,
Taipei, in 2002 and 2007, respectively.
In February 2009, he joined the Department of
Electronic Engineering, National Taiwan University
of Science and Technology, Taipei, where he is cur-
rently an Assistant Professor. His research interests
include phase-locked loops, mixed-signal ICs, and
RF front-end ICs for wireless communications.
Shey-Shi Lu (S’89–M’91–SM’99) was born in
Taipei, Taiwan, on October 12, 1962. He received the
B.S. degree in electrical engineering from National
Taiwan University, Taipei, in 1985, the M.S. degree
in electrical engineering from Cornell University,
Ithaca, NY, in 1988, and the Ph.D. degree in elec-
trical engineering from the University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, in 1991. His M.S. thesis was related
to the planar doped-barrier hot-electron transistor,
while his doctoral dissertation concerned the uni-
axial stress effect on the AlGaAs/GaAs quantum
well/barrier structures.
In August 1991, he joined the Department of Electrical Engineering, Na-
tional Taiwan University, where he is currently a Professor. Since August
2007, he has also been the Director of the Graduate Institute of Electronics
Engineering, National Taiwan University. His current research interests are
in the areas of radio-frequency (RF) integrated circuit/monolithic microwave
integrated circuits, and micromachined RF components.
6. 參加會議經過： 
    國際電路與系統會議(International Symposium on Circuits and 
Systems)是從事電路設計相關研究領域的研究學者與學生之年度盛會。
從1968年起在世界各地舉辦研討會，且每年舉行一次，繼上一屆法國巴
黎舉辦後，今年在巴西里約熱內盧也是盛大舉辦。下一屆也將訂於韓國
的首爾舉行。 
    此次行程由本人自行前往，由於路途遙遠，必須轉機兩次方可到達
目的地，首先搭乘飛往日本東京的成田機場的飛機，再轉搭由東京飛往
美國達拉斯的班機，最後從達拉斯轉機到巴西的里約熱內盧。到巴西後
當地的交通頗為便利，直接搭乘巴士前往下榻的飯店，便可在從所在的
飯店坐當地公車前往會議舉辦的會議場地，地點是在里約Windsor Barra 
Hotel的會議中心舉辦，會期是從5/15~5/18共四天，為提前熟悉當地的環
境，因此提早了一天出發前往。其中參加三天的會議，並在5/17當天發
表目前所做的研究A 2-6GHz Broadband CMOS Low-Noise Amplifier 
with Current Reuse Topology Utilizing a Noise-Shaping Technique。 
    飛機在5/15早上抵達巴西里約的國際機場，下午就先至主辦會議的
中心辦理報到相關程序。會議是從5/15的上午開始，第一天主要是一些
tutorial的內容，由於這些項目都必須要繳交額外的費用，因此這部分便
7. 會議心得： 
    很高興有機會可以參加這次的會議，因為會議的內容包羅萬象，從
基本的電路方塊到系統整合的架構都能在此會議中得到靈感遇觸發。也
藉由這次的會議，能與各國各領域的專家交流意見後，瞭解其他國家的
研究學者在做些什麼樣的研究，和我們目前所做的是否有相關性，以利
未來可發展更新的研究方向。此外也更加充實在電路及系統上相關研究
領域的知識，並帶回會議發送的論文集以及相關資料供實驗室的同學及
老師參考。最後將這次參與會議的經驗與心得跟大家分享，希望對大家
未來的研究之路能有所助益。 
由於出國參與會議所需的經費不是個小數目，在此非常感謝國家有
如此的經費可以補助類似的國際交流活動，造福許許多多的在學學生，
讓大家有機會能夠到外面的世界增廣見聞，充實自己的所學，也使得此
次的會議能圓滿的成行。  
 
8. 建議： 
由於此會議的規模十分的龐大，對於電路與系統領域的學者與學生都
非常的有幫助，因此希望從事該領域相關研究的同學與老師均能踴躍參
與，讓大家都能多互相分享彼此的研究成果。此外除了會議的東西需要
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一：近身生醫感測收發單晶電路
計畫主持人: 呂學士
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-002-153-MY3 學門領域: 微機電系統技術 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 植入式電刺激器
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
國立臺灣大學
發明人
(創作人)
呂學士,邱弘緯,林啟萬,溫永銳,
楊燿州,施文彬,林木鍊,林威佐,
蔡燿全,張季衡,方柏翔,王常倫,
李義欽,何儀修
技術說明
(中文) 神經功能失調是一大類神經系統疾病，高發病率而且重症的帕金森病等運動障礙
疾病、癲癇、頑固性疼痛等，導致病人明顯殘障，造成巨大的經濟和社會負擔。 
隨著社會的發展和人們生活水平的提高，對此類神經功能失調疾病的治療需求越
來越迫切。傳統上，神經功能失調疾病的治療有藥物方法和外科手術毀損方法。
但是長期服用藥物副作用多且難以避免，而由於腦和神經的複雜性和人類認識的
局限性，不可逆的手術毀損具有不可預知的惡性後果。 
在現在的神經醫療領域，往往透過大型醫療儀器，外接針灸電極插入體內，增加
病人每次醫療的痛苦，增加感染機率，無法自行簡單醫療。 
由此可見，上述現有的神經醫療方式，顯然仍存在不便與缺陷，而有待加以進一
步改進。為了解決上述問題，相關領域莫不費盡心思來謀求解決之道，但長久以
來一直未見適用的方式被發展完成。因此，如何能讓病人不必在每次刺激時都遭
電極穿刺入體內，實屬當前重要研發課題之一，亦成爲當前相關領域亟需改進的
目標。 
 
植入式電刺激器，其包括兩刺激電極、一系統單晶片與一感應線圈。系統單晶片
可經由刺激電極來對一背根神經節施予電刺激，一外部電源可透過感應線圈對系
統單晶片作無線充電。於使用時，一外部電源可透過感應線圈對系統單晶片作無
線充電，而系統單晶片可經由刺激電極來對一背根神經節施予電刺激。藉此，在
背根神經節受到電刺激時，可為人體達到止痛的效果。 
 
(英文) An implantable electrical stimulator is disclosed, which includes two stimulating 
electrode, a SoC and an inducing coil. The SoC can apply electric stimulation to the 
dorsal root ganglion via the stimulating electrodes. An external power source can 
wirelessly charge the SoC through the inducing coil.
產業別 電機及電子機械器材業；醫療器材製造業
技術/產品應用範圍
植入式電刺激器可以使用在身體內所有的神經訊號調變上, 具體的臨床功效為減輕下背 
神經痛. 
中電刺激療法的基本理論是依門閾理論(Gate theory)以非破壞性的脊髓神經刺激達到 
疼痛訊號之阻斷控制。臨床上早在1980 年即開始以無線電波高頻刺激(RF, 
RadioFrequency, 50KHz)來治療脊髓背根神經節 (DRG, Dorsal Root Gang.)所引起的 
下背痛，可是真正機轉至今尚未完全明白，最新的疼痛理論更進一步與user dependent 
經驗有關，個體化的差異更是臨床上治療時一個頭痛的問題，直到最近Dr.Sluijter 發 
現電場的作用(Electric Field)是DRG-RF 的關鍵；也因此他改良設計為 
DRG-PRF(Pulsed Radio Frequency)來治療下背痛。Dr. Rajesh Munglani曾報告過， 
DRG-RF 止痛效果達90%。 
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
據臺灣於93年發布的統計資料顯示，椎間盤突出或慢性下背痛門診住院醫療申報點 
數排序為第六，92年至93成長率高達11%以上，由此可見慢性下背痛所需要花費的醫療 
成本正逐年增加。再進一步地比較93與94年的資料，椎間突出或下背痛更是躍升至全國 
第四名，這證明了下背疼痛疾病在台灣已漸漸造成醫療負擔，進而讓我們關心這方面醫 
療技術的進展。 
 
臨床上，如果無法客觀地評估下背痛患者的疼痛程度而建立可靠的治療指標，擬定完整 
且適切的疼痛復健計畫，則導致下背痛患者可能需要更多的疼痛控制藥物及更長期的復 
健治療，慢性下背痛已經造成世界各國經濟上與社會上很大的負擔。為了有效面對此一 
問題，目前國內大部份的教學醫院皆設置有疼痛科，其中慢性下背痛患者的治療更為臨 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：呂學士 計畫編號：97-2221-E-002-153-MY3 
計畫名稱：生醫感測網路上身晶片系統--子計畫一：近身生醫感測收發單晶電路 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100% 
黃毓傑 ； 廖信
宏 ； 黃本立 ；
楊燿州 ； 林啟
萬 ； 呂學士,「植
入式 CMOS 即 
時釋藥系統單晶
片」零組件雜誌
214 2009.08, 頁
36-39. 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100% 
中 華 民 國 專
利 ’’近身通訊
生醫晶片系統及
其使用方法’’
申請中 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 1 60%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 50% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100% 
Intra-Body 
Communication 
(IBC) Device And 
A Method Of 
Implementing The 
IBC Device 
國外 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
