that occur in the assembly process. In order to have 
a ’Design for Manufacturing’ optical system, the 
mechanical engineer has to provide the system 
assembly variation as an input to the optical design 
and analysis in order to anticipate the performance 
of the optical system. The purpose of this study was 
to develop an opto-mechanical tolerance model to 
calculate the element tilt, decenter and despace 
stack-up within a cell. A surface-based opto-
mechanical tolerance model of a spherical lens, an 
aspherical lens, and an assembly algorithm were 
developed in this study. The simulation results were 
conducted by descriptive statistics. Two ’drop-in’ 
assembly design lens groups were studied to calculate 
the stack-up element tilt and decenter within a cell 
and the resultant deviations of the optical axes away 
from the mechanical datum axis. The results of this 
project will indicate that the opto-mechanical 
tolerance model can analyze the quality parameters 
critical for a lens system. As a result, the 
performance of the lens system can be predicted by 
the opto-mechanical tolerance model before mass 
production. 
英文關鍵詞： tolerance analysis, aspherical lens, spherical lens, 
descriptive statistics. 
 
2 
components in a mounting cell. Work by Thompson[8] resulted in a theory to represent 
fabricated optical components by a set of simple local coordinate systems linked by 
physically relevant stationary pivot points. The properties of optical elements, mechanical 
spacers, and the techniques for their characterization were thus developed. De Witt IV
9
 
presented a means of characterizing the rigid body motions of optical elements from their 
nominal positions as caused by manufacturing tolerances and thermal effects. Several cases 
of element tilt or decenter caused by mechanical mounting of components were discussed. 
However, the model considered the worst case only, and is complicated if it is applied to the 
stack-up situation. 
Currently, the tolerance requirements of a lens system are determined by the optical 
designer. The real manufacturing process capability and the variations that occur in the 
assembly process are not considered in many companies. As a result, some the lens 
development projects have found it difficult to improve the yield rate before or during mass 
production. In the real world, the position variation of the optical component is determined by 
the tolerance stack-up of the optical and mechanical components used to mount the optical 
elements. The dimensional and geometric variations of the optical and mechanical 
components are determined by the capability of the manufacturing processes. If the optical 
performance is analyzed by the resultant tolerances that are derived from the actual 
opto-mechanical stack-up, it is reasonable for engineers to predict the mass production yield 
rate of a lens system. Then, the design can be modified or improved to meet the requirements 
for mass production. The cost and delivery of a development project can be minimized, and 
the quality will be fit for use. This is the “Design for Manufacturing” (DFM) concept. 
The objective of this projrct was to develop an opto-mechanical tolerance model that 
calculates the variation of the quality parameters critical for a lens system, such as the lens 
element tilt, decenter and despace within a cell. The distribution of these parameters can be 
an input to the optical design. Therefore, the optical performance will be more predictable 
than that of the top-down approach, and the manufacturability of the optical system will be 
improved. First, all the optical and mechanical components are represented as point geometry 
that is derived from the engineering specifications of the components, and from some 
geometric calculations and vector operations. Second, tolerances are assigned to the 
corresponding location points of each component. Third, the system is assembled by defining 
the stationary points and the rolling limit conditions. Fourth, parameters which are critical to 
the quality, such as the stack-up element tilt, decenter and despace within a cell, are defined 
as the output. Finally, a Monte Carlo simulation is carried out to calculate the output 
measurements of the opto-mechanical parameters in a statistical description. 
 
2 Preliminary Details 
The ideal case of a typical lens mounting assembly is illustrated in Figure 1. The lens 
4 
zone CTZ_S2 is created at point N (0, 0, T) on a plane parallel to x-y plane. The diameter 
of the circular tolerance zone CTZ_S1 and CTZ_S2 is determined by the following 
equation: 
  CTZtilt = T × tanτ s                                                   (1) 
where 
  CTZtilt is the diameter of the circular tolerance zone, 
  T is the nominal central thickness of the lens, 
  s is the surface tilt tolerance specification of the lens determined by designers. 
3. Determine the optical axis randomly. In Figure 3(d), a point P is selected randomly within 
CTZ_S1 and another point Q is chosen randomly within CTZ_S2. Point P and point Q 
can be expressed by the vector notation below: 
  kzjyixr PPPP

                                                 (2) 
  kzjyixr QQQQ

                                                 (3) 
The normalized vector along the optical axis of the lens is 
  
PQ
PQ
rr
rr
o 




                                                          (4) 
4. Determine the centers of curvature of surface 1 and surface 2. In Figure 3(e), the vertex 
point V1 of surface 1 is the same as point P. The vertex V2 of surface 2 can be determined 
by the following equation: 
  ot)(Trr PV

2                                                     (5) 
The center of curvature of surface 1 will be determined by: 
  
o)(rr P

r1R1C1                                                    (6) 
The center of curvature of surface 2 will be determined by: 
  o)(rr

r2R2-V2C2                                                    (7) 
5. Determine the two surfaces of the lens. In Figure 3(f), let r

 be an arbitrary point on 
surface 1. Then, surface 1 can be expressed as: 
  111 rRrr C 

                                                     (8) 
Similarly, surface 2 can be expressed as: 
  222 rRrr C 

                                                    (9) 
6. Determine the other points which are necessary for the ensuing tolerance analysis on the 
lens. For instance, the edge of the lens can be determined by solving the equations of the 
surface and the straight line which represents the rim of the lens. 
 
6 
The optical axis of an aspherical element is formed by joining all the centers of curvature 
together. The center of curvature at a certain radial distance is necessary for the following 
assembly simulation. The radial distance is usually the supporting diameter of the mounting 
shoulder or the contacting circular diameter of the spacer. As the surface is rotationally 
symmetrical about the optical axis, the center of curvature at an arbitrary s value can be 
determined by selecting a cross-section, for example x = 0, as illustrated in Figure 4. The 
radial distance from the z-axis is 22 ys  . Therefore, the slope of the curve at (y1, z1) is: 
  tanθ  = 
2
( 1 )  ( 1 )
y
f y Dy f y Dy

  
 (11) 
where y is an infinitesimal increment of y1. As a result, the coordinates of the center of 
curvature are (0, 0, θyz tan11  ).  
 
Figure 4. Center of curvature of an aspherical surface at radial distance y1 
 
As each aspherical surface has its own optical axis, the surface tilt and decenter are defined 
separately in the specification list. The detailed descriptions can be found in the following 
example on Section 4. A biconvex aspherical lens is shown in Figure 5(a), and the 
opto-mechanical tolerance model is described below: 
1. Set up a local Cartesian coordinate system for the opto-mechanical system as shown in 
Figure 5(b). The coordinate system is set up the same way as the coordinate system for the 
spherical lens described above. 
2. Define the surface decenter tolerance. In Figure 5(c), the first circular tolerance zone 
CTZ_S1 with diameter s is created on the x-y plane at the origin, and the second circular 
tolerance zone CTZ_S2 with diameter s is created at point (0, 0, Tt) on a plane parallel 
to the x-y plane. The diameter of the circular tolerance zone CTZ_S1 and CTZ_S2 is equal 
to the surface decenter specification of the lens because the lens is assumed to make fully 
circular contact with the seat. 
3. Define the surface tilt tolerance. In Figure 5(d), a point P is chosen randomly within 
CTZ_S1 as the vertex of surface 1, and another point Q is chosen randomly within 
CTZ_S2 as the vertex of surface 2. Create an optical axis vector o

 with the surface tilt 
tolerance for surface 2 by similar techniques discussed above. 
8 
may roll against the shoulder until its rim makes contact with the cell. The rolling center C1 
may or may not locate on the center axis of the cell. The element tilt m which is equal to the 
mechanical axis tilt of the lens is the angle between the mechanical axis of the lens and the 
mechanical datum axis of the lens system. The resultant optical axis tilt o of the lens is the 
angle between the optical axis of the lens and the mechanical datum axis of the lens system. 
The surface decentration m is the normal distance from the mechanical center of surface 2 to 
the mechanical datum axis of the lens system. The resultant decenter o is the normal distance 
from the optical vertex of surface 2 to the mechanical datum axis of the lens system.  
 
Figure 6. Manufacturing variation           Figure 7. Rolling center  
In a “drop-in” assembly design, the spacer is usually loaded between two lenses so as to 
create the designed air space. The determination of the position of the spacer in a lens 
assembly system is straightforward. In Figure 7, a typical spacer is attached to a biconvex 
lens within a cell. The dotted line depicts the spacer in the maximum element tilted situation 
owing to the assembly variation. The motion of the spacer caused by assembly variation is 
such that the spacer rolls on the surface to which it attaches. The center of curvature of 
surface 2 of the lens is the rolling center of the spacer. Again, this is the only point belonging 
to the coordinate system of the spacer that remains stationary in the coordinate system of the 
lens or cell irrespective of how much element tilt the spacer experiences. Similarly, the 
assembly variation of a spacer which is attached to a concave surface of a lens in a cell is 
shown in Figure 8. 
         
Figure 8. Rolling center of a space           Figure 9. Tolerance model of a cell 
10 
      
Figure 10. Tolerance model of spacers      Figure 11. Frame transformation 
Vector p is expressed in the coordinates of frame 1. Matrix R rotates frame 1 into frame 2. 
The mathematical form of the transform is: 
  pRq
qpR
q
T













110
'               (12) 
An assembly is a chain of coordinate frames on parts designed to achieve certain dimensional 
relationships between some of the components or between features on these parts. This 
connective model is valid only under statically determinate conditions. It is assumed that all 
components are rigid.  
After all of the components have been assembled, the point geometry belongs to the 
coordinate frame of each component that has been transformed to the datum coordinate frame 
which is usually set on the first component in the assembly. The assembly can be calculated 
directly by referring to the points of each component. The element tilt m, decenter m, optical 
axis tilt o, and decenter o can be calculated with the previously mentioned equations. 
4 Simulation Results and Discussion 
In this project, a design for a 10X zoom lens for a digital video camera is chosen for the 
case study. Most of the optical constructions of high-ratio zoom lenses consist of four or five 
lens groups. Some groups are fixed while others are movable independently of one another 
during zooming. Figure 12 shows the optical and opto-mechanical design of the second and 
third group of a 10X zoom lens. There are three lenses in Group II. Lens L5 contacts with 
lens L6 directly; lens L6 and lens L7 are separated by a spacer S2. All components are 
assembled from the left side of cell C2. There are four lenses in Group III. Lens L8 is a lateral 
compensating lens and must be attached from the left side of the cell C3. Lens L9, lens L10, 
12 
Table 2. The assembly tolerance requirements 
Element tilt  4 min. 
Element decenter  0.025mm 
Element despace  0.03mm 
4.1 Simulation Results 
The opto-mechanical tolerance model developed in this study was implemented in Matlab 
software which performs variation analysis by Monte Carlo simulation. Users have to define 
the mathematical relationships between input variations and output measurements. The input 
variations are the component geometry, tolerances and assembly variations. The output 
measurements in this study are the element tilt, decenter and position of a lens in an assembly. 
The program shows an actual range based on Monte Carlo simulated observations, a 
statistical range, statistical descriptions of the process, and contributors to the variation. The 
validation of the tolerance model can be checked in the following ways. First, check the 
nominal dimensions of the output measurements, because the nominal dimension is usually 
the design target. For instance, the element tilt or decenter of any lens should be zero whether 
the lens is assembled or not. Second, check the position of various points on a component 
before and after assembly. Engineers should know the exact coordinates of these points 
before and after assembly. Finally, check the statistical range and distribution of the output 
measurements. According to the input variations, engineers can roughly estimate the 
statistical range of the output measurements and evaluate the rationality of the results. 
Furthermore, the user’s experience is important in reading the data of the output 
measurements. The results are summarized in Table 3. 
 
Table 3. Simulation results 
Group Group II Group III 
Element name L5 L6 L7 L8 L9 L10 L11 
Assembly order 3 2 1 Independent 1 2 3 
Element tilt (min.) 7.848 7.776 4.464 2.736 2.826 7.398 10.116 
Optical axis tilt(min.) 8.010 7.182 4.176 2.196 4.068 7.218 9.972 
Element decenter(mm) 0.020 0.018 0.018 Unimportant 0.018 0.019 0.026 
Optical axis decenter(mm) 0.020 0.019 0.018 Unimportant 0.019 0.019 0.026 
Element despace(mm) x 0.021 0.020 x 0.021 0.020 Doublet 
14 
5 Conclusions 
At the opto-mechanical interface, manufacturing tolerances affect the shape and position 
of the surfaces in a lens system. Even very small variations will cause additional aberrations 
which degrade the optical quality of a lens system. The traditional approach to the 
opto-mechanical tolerance design is a top-down process. A significant drawback of this 
top-down process is that the tolerances determined by optical designers do not take the real 
manufacturing and assembly processes into consideration. As a result, some tolerances are 
too tight for the manufacturing process, and the yield rate of the production is difficult to 
improve.  
This study proposes an opto-mechanical tolerance model that calculates the variation of 
the parameters for a lens system. The element tilt, decenter and despace of a lens within a cell 
are opto-mechanical parameters the critical to the quality of a lens system. In this study, the 
opto-mechanical tolerance model for a lens assembly was implemented in Matlab software to 
simulate the distribution of these parameters by Monte Carol simulation. The model 
integrates the tolerances of optical elements, the tolerances of mechanical component, and the 
variations in the assembly process. The model is represented as point geometry. Because the 
point geometry of the optical surfaces is derived by the mathematical equations of the 
surfaces and the dimensions of mechanical components that are attached to it, a surface-based 
opto-mechanical tolerance model was built. The outputs of the model are the statistical 
information about the element tilt, decenter and despace of a lens or the resultant error of the 
optical axis of a lens within a cell. With this tolerance model the performance of an 
opto-mechanical system can be predicted. The analysis results can also be an input to optical 
design software. As a result, a “Design for Manufacturing” optical system can be achieved. 
 
References 
1 R. R. Willy and P. E. Parks, Optical Fundamentals, Optomechanical Engineering 
Handbook, Ed. Ahmad, A., Boca Raton: CRC Press LLC (1999). 
2 D. Vukobratovich, Optomechanical Design Principles, Optomechanical Engineering 
Handbook, Ed. Ahmad, A., Boca Raton: CRC Press LLC (1999). 
3 R.S. Hilbert, “Semi-automatic modulation transfer function (MTF) tolerancing”, Optical 
System Engineering, SPIE Vol. 193, pp. 34-43, San Diego, CA, USA, August (1979). 
4 P. Drake, “Auto-tolerancing on optical system”, Lens Design, Illumination, and 
Optomechanical Modeling, SPIE Vol. 3130, pp. 136-147, San Diego, CA, USA,                 
July (1997). 
5 T. Sasak, M. Shinkai, K. Higashiyama, F. Tanaka, and T. Kishinami, “Development of 
Statistical Tolerancing System for Optical Product. – Virtual PT System and Mass 
Product Simulation”, International Optical Design Conference, SPIE Vol. 3482, pp. 
528-537, Kona, HI, USA, June (1998). 
出國報告（出國類別：參加研討會） 
 
 
 
 
 
參加新加坡 ICIII 2012 學術研討會 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                      
服務機關：國防大學理工學院 
姓名職稱：林聰穎 副教授 
派赴國家：新加坡 
出國期間：2012/03/16 - 19 
報告日期：2012/04/09 
2 
 
目次 
一、目的                3 
二、過程                5 
三、心得及建議事項             8 
4 
 
13. IT policy and business management 
14. Industry Application 
在國際工程及科學的計算及實驗的領域上，各專家學者常利用不同方法來解決各領
域的問題，為了解現今學術界發展之現況，並與來自世界各國學者進行交流，故參加此
研 討 會 。 再 加 上 此 次 研 討 會 邀 請 在 此 領 域 有 傑 出 研 究 成 果 的 新 加 坡 Nanyang 
Technological University 的 Prof. Ma Maode 發表專題演講，更增加參與研討會的意義。 
6 
 
府、工業、國防等大約 20 項研究計畫，學術論文發表超過 200 篇(包括超過 70 份期刊
論文，超過 140 篇會議論文集、和 3 本學術專書)，他現在是” International journal of 
Electronic Transport”及” Journal of the Advancements in Computing Technology”的總編
輯，及 IEEE 技術委員會的成員。 
開幕儀式後隨即依主題展開研討，個人參與多場與人工智慧領域有關之論文發表，
包含 Neural Networks、Fuzzy Logic、Artificial Intelligent 等等，當日午宴並與來自國內
外多位學者交流。 
個人發表場次於第二天下午，為應用人工智慧運算於複雜系統之應用，此場次的論
文共有十餘篇，主持人為 Dr. Junchul Chun，為韓國 Kyonggi University 教授。個人發表
的題目為”A Novel Gear-shifting Strategy Used on Smart Bicycles”「自行車自動變速策略之
研究」，因為自行車騎乘者各種因素的考量，有時需要高效率，但有時需要較低的踩踏
力以避免受傷，因此騎乘者可依據各種需要而調整變速撥桿，選擇不同檔位以獲得符合
需求的最佳踏速，而現今的研究文獻也分別指出符合不同單一需求下，如較低的肌肉應
力或較低的關節扭矩考量下的最佳踏速範圍，但是如此一來便會忽略了其他因素；另外
由於大多數騎乘者的經驗不足，不能充分的發揮變速系統的效用，或是會選擇不適當的
檔位，除了浪費力氣以外，更可能在不自覺中受傷。本論文使用模糊理論整合自行車踩
踏時的各種因素，依據不同的需求和騎乘環境決定出上下檔位的時機，如此便可提供一
完整的變速策略，為了能使該變速策略和變速系統能有效被充分的利用，故配合文獻中
的換檔路徑方式完成一自動變速系統策略之設定，最後利用 Browning SmartShift 之系統
8 
 
三、心得及建議事項 
此會議主要目的是提供一公開場合，以便對於人工智慧領域之最新觀念及研究成果
進行討論及心得交換。由於此會議應用與理論性質並重，故專家學者除來各學術單位
外，工業界相關專家亦十分踴躍參與，對於一些簡單理論於實際產業的應用可以得到很
好的認識。觀察會議中發表的論文，百分之八十以上為亞洲學者提出，一方面是與會議
地點有關，也與近年來工程計算理論的蓬勃發展有關。由於此次研討會合併有業界研發
人員參與論文發表，提供與會學者與業界交流之機會，為產學合作最好之模式。 
在言談過程中，與會學者對於國內官方機構，整合學術界與產業界進行雛型品研發
已致量產之過程深感興趣，紛紛詢問相關情形，尤其是國內產業從最初技轉代工，短短
幾年內已具備研發雛型品並量產的能力，產官學三方的努力實值得鼓勵。此機會可使學
校研究之理論在產品上穫得實際之應用，產業界可藉助學校之設備及人員，培養研發能
力，最重要的是政府之參與可真正了解實際經濟發展之需求，訂定適當之方案與政策。 
在參加研討會的過程中，對於會議流程、論文之撰寫與發表得到了許多寶貴經驗。特別
感謝國科會提供此項經費補助，使個人能實際參與。 
國內尤應多舉辦此領域之學術會議，使國內從事相關研究之專學者能充分交換意見
並加以整合。且研討會期間若合併展覽會之舉行，對於學術界可了解最新產業發展趨勢
及需求，使研究工作不偏離產業需求，對於業界亦可充分了解學術界之研發能量，是促
進產學合作之良好機會。 
 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林聰穎 計畫編號：100-2221-E-606-010- 
計畫名稱：於設計階段鏡頭模組可製造性與公差之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
