 2
 
一、摘要 
(一) 計畫中文摘要。（五百字以內） 
過去幾年來政府大力推動 eTaiwan 計畫，希望透過資訊通訊技術的應用，將台灣的產
業提升為知識經濟型產業。營建工程為一以經驗為基礎之專業，從過去執行專案中累積與
發掘之營建工程知識為各營建業者(包括業主、設計者、施工單位及營建管理顧問)確保未來
專案成功之基石，因此營建業也屬於一種特殊的「知識經濟」產業。營建業為一知識密集
產業，其知識之獲取、創新、貯存、分享與再利用等知識管理活動與公司之產業競爭力息
息相關，因此如何有效地衡量知識管理系統(KMS)之效益，並具以研擬改善策略，為公司
主管階層的重要課題。經過文獻調查發現目前知識管理系統績效評估之研究甚為缺乏，更
未見任何有關知識管理效益之量化分析報告。究其原因，主要在於知識產品(Artifact)之價
值甚難評估，而知識活動之效益更難以定義。本研究旨在提出一套 KMS 效益之量化評估方
法，並以台灣地區大型營建業(含工程顧問業及營造業)為個案對象，以實證研究之方式，針
對案例公司 KMS 中之實際案例，分別就知識管理效益、知識管理活動及知識創新模式等課
題進行個案分析，以量測 KMS 系統及相關知識活動之實質效益。本研究計畫預定以三年為
期：本年度之研究在建立「知識管理效益評估模式」，並選擇國內較具代表性之工程顧問業
做為個案研究對象，進行「知識管理效益評估模式」之驗證，完成工程顧問業 KMS 系統量
化效益分析。 
 
 
關鍵字：知識管理、知識社群、績效衡量、顧問公司 
 
 
 
 
 4
二、動機與目的 
Construction has been conceived as an experience-based industry [1]. Knowledge and 
experiences accumulated from previous works play a very important role in successful 
performance of new projects. There are more and more construction organizations (including 
owners, developers, A/E firms, contractors, and construction management firms) implement the 
knowledge management (KM) initiatives in their organizations to create, capture, record, retain, 
retrieve, reuse and revise the knowledge generated from the staffs, internal processes, and 
external customers. However, the assessment of the returns of KM initiatives is lagging behind. 
In other words, organizations spent a lot of efforts and resources in establishing their knowledge 
management infrastructure, both for hardware and software, while fewer efforts were invested to 
measure the results of their KM endeavours [1]. Very little literature is found on measuring the 
performance of a knowledge management system (KMS) due to a key problem: lack of effective 
and quantitative methods for measuring values resulted from the KMS [2]. Without such methods, 
KM managers could not determine the values generated from a KMS, nor can he/she plan 
effective strategies to improve the performance of KMS [3].  
 
This paper presents the development of a quantitative performance measurement model for the 
generic Communities of Practice (CoPs) in a KMS. Such a model aims at tackling general types 
of KM activities that generate values to the organization’s intellectual assets. To achieve this goal, 
the value-adding activities/processes of knowledge management initiatives are identified and 
modelled first. Then, the quantitative methods are developed to calculate the values generated 
from the identified processes. A Knowledge Value-Adding Model (KVAM) is proposed to meet 
these two ends. An internet-based web service system, namely Knowledge Value-Adding System 
(KVAS) is developed to implement the proposed KVAM. A case study is conducted on a leading 
local A/E firm to demonstrate the proposed KVAM and test the applicability of KVAS. Finally, 
discussions on the applicability and system limitations of the proposed method are addressed. The 
proposed method aims to offer the KM managers of the firm and the CoPs a useful tool to 
measure the values of their KM initiatives, so that management efforts can be planned and tested 
by monitoring the increased/decreased values resulted from those efforts. Thus, effective 
strategies for performance improvement of the KMS can be identified and implemented. 
 
三、文獻探討 
Previous Works on Quantitative Performance Measurement of KM 
 
Although there was little on performance measurement of KMS in the literature, some relevant 
works were found including the quantification of intellectual assets (IA), performance 
measurement of KMS, and quantification of benefits resulted from KMS. This section revisits 
some of the important works. 
 
 6
 
Performance measurement of KMS 
 
Swaak et al. [5] conducted as survey and concluded that there are two major measurement 
approaches related to knowledge management results: (1) questionnaire approach; (2) multiple 
indicators approach. Within the ‘questionnaire approach’, a questionnaire with closed and open 
questions, completed by participants of a KMS reveals the profile of an organization. Usually, the 
profile is used in subsequent interviews and workshops. Within this approach, major concepts are 
‘extent of knowledge sharing’ and ‘learning potential’ of an organization. The ‘multiple indicator 
approach’ roughly makes a distinction between ‘customer capital’, ‘innovation capital’, ‘financial 
capital’, ‘internal business processes’, and ‘human capital’. For each category, a large number of 
indicators—mostly objective and quantitative—are collected. 
 
An eight-step framework to create performance indicators for knowledge management solutions 
was proposed by del-Rey-Chamorro et al. at Cambridge University [6]. The framework consists 
of three stages: (1) strategic level—comprising of measures that evaluate the organization’s goals; 
(2) intermediate level—comprising indicators that link the process performance indices at the 
operational level to the business performance indicators in the strategic level; and (3) operational 
level—comprising indicators that represent the measurable process performance of a KMS. 
del-Rey-Chamorro et al.’s work was similar to the BSC approach [8] reviewed previously for 
quantification of IA, which is also limited to the organizational measurement. 
 
Bassion et al. addressed that in developing a conceptual framework for measuring business 
performance in construction should take into account the organization’s business objectives [7]. 
They also conducted empirical experiments on two case construction firms in UK. A systematic 
analysis model based on IDEF0 was also developed for the proposed framework. 
 
Bassion et al.’s work was theoretically based on some existing performance measurement 
systems such as Balanced Scorecard (BSC) [8], European Foundation for Quality Management 
(EFQM) excellence model [9], and Key Performance Indicators (KPI) [10]. The above systems 
provide useful indicators that can be adopted for performance evaluation in the present research. 
 
Benefit quantification of KMS 
 
Yu et al. proposed a set of quantitative models to quantify the benefits resulted from a KMS of an 
A/E consulting firm [2]; those benefits include cost, time, and man-hour savings. Their 
quantitative models were formulated based on the comparison of problem-solving processes 
 Figure 1 Spiral of organizational knowledge creation [12]. 
Combination Externalization
Socialization
Ontology Dimension
Ep
is
te
mo
lo
gy
 D
im
en
si
o n
I n ternalization
Ex p l i c i
k n o w l e d g e t
I n d i v i d u a l G r o u p O r g a n i z a t i o n I n t e r o r g a n i z a t i o n
T a c i t
k n o w l e d g e t
 
 
Nonaka addressed that the generation of new knowledge happens in the four modes of 
knowledge conversion, which constitutes the essential value of an organization. Nonaka’s theory 
was supported by Johansson in his theory of “Medici Effect” [11], where the knowledge creation 
activities are more productive as individuals of different contexts intersect each other. It is 
believed that the modern design of CoPs was a realization of the “intersection field” in the Medici 
Effect. 
 
Knowledge chain model 
 
A further step of Nonaka’s Knowledge Creation Theory is the Knowledge Chain Model 
proposed by Holsapple and Singh [13]. The Knowledge Chain Model identifies five major 
knowledge manipulation activities (primary activities) that occur in various patterns within KM 
episodes: acquisition, selection, generation, internalization, and externalization. In addition, there 
are secondary activities that support and guide the performance of primary knowledge 
manipulation activities: measurement, control, coordination, and leadership. An organization may 
possess the best knowledge resources and the best knowledge manipulation skills, but they are of 
no use until they are effectively applied during the conduct of KM [14]. The Knowledge Chain 
Model thus links the competitiveness of the organization with the value generation through the 
knowledge processing chain: acquisition → selection → generation → internalization → 
externalization. The proposed KVAM adopts the value generation concept similar to the 
Knowledge Chain Model. 
 
Knowledge value added theory 
 
The Knowledge Value Added theory was proposed by Housel and Bell [15] and depicted in 
 8
adding processes are different. 
 
The model 
 
Basic model 
 
Based on the theoretical backgrounds addressed above, a basic model of KVAM is proposed as 
shown in Figure 3. 
 
 
Figure 3 Basic model of KVAM 
 
In Figure 3, the basic model consists of two stages of human involvement (related to the “P” in 
Knowledge Value Added theory): (1) Raw knowledge creating process (RKCP)—performed by 
the initiator of a KM activity; (2) Knowledge value adding process (KVAP)—performed by the 
participants/respondents of a topic in the CoP. As mentioned in Nonaka’s Knowledge Creation 
Theory, the first stage may involve four modes of knowledge conversion including socialization, 
externalization, combination and internalization. The second stage is related to the Knowledge 
Chain Model, in which the knowledge generates values only when it is applied or utilized by the 
other individuals. The value of the “Knowledge Value Added (KVA)” is then measured by 
subtracting the amount of knowledge of the input from that of the output. This is performed by 
multiplying the fuzzy terms of the two separate stages. 
 
As the basic model of KVAM is established, two types of KM activities should be handled 
separately according to the characteristics of raw knowledge and value adding processes. This 
will be described in the following sub sections. 
 
Measuring KVA of knowledge sharing activities 
 
For the knowledge sharing activities, the raw knowledge creation are classified into five 
categories (RKC terms, RKCTs) according to the level of value adding: (1) non-relevant—the 
knowledge shared is not relevant to the theme of the CoP, and thus the KVA is very low; (2) 
 10
small amount of value is generated through the obtaining or retaining (socialization) of 
knowledge; (3) medium contribution—a medium amount of value is generated through the 
application (or combination) of the obtained knowledge; (4) high contribution—a large amount of 
value is generated through internalization of the used knowledge; (5) highest contribution—the 
highest amount of knowledge generated by contributing new entity of knowledge to the raw 
knowledge. The complete KVA model for problem-solving activities is depicted in Figure 5. 
 
 
Figure 5 KVAM for problem-solving activities 
 
Assessment of fuzzy membership functions  
 
In order to quantify KM performance, it is required to assess the membership functions of the 
fuzzy linguistic terms associated with the RKCTs and KVATs described previously. In this 
research, the questionnaire survey is adopted first to assess the subjective preferences on the 
terms with memberships; then the Kohonen Feature Map [16] is employed to automatically 
construct the membership functions. In assessing the subjective preferences of the KM manager 
of each CoPs toward the RKCTs and KVATs. KM descriptions were presented to the managers of 
CoP, and then they were asked to determine appropriate terms and the associated scores (0~100) 
that best reflect the RKCTs and KVATs. The data sets (term, score) are used for self-organization 
of Kohonen Feature Map as shown in the following: 
 
  The Kohonen learning rule consists of two stages: 
 
  Similarity matching stage:    
 
{ }kjnjki wxMinwx ˆˆ 1 −=− ≤≤ ,             (1) 
 
where the most similar cluster for input data x is found to be the ith cluster by minimizing 
the difference between x and the center of the cluster ( ), where superscript k represents kiwˆ
 12
calculated by the following equation: 
 
  ,              (4) 
 
 where KVAi is the estimated knowledge value added (crisp) of the ith KM activity 
through the KVA process; and iA   and iB  describes the knowledge changes in the RKCP 
and KVAP. 
 
To aggregate the KVAs resulted from multiple KM activities, the Fuzzy Addition operation can 
employed as shown below: 
 
  ,            (5) 
 
 where KVAtotal is the aggregated knowledge value added of the n KM activities; and 
KVAi represents the KVA of the ith KM activity. 
 
With the KVA models and the computational algorithms described above, the proposed KVAM is 
ready to quantify the performance of CoPs in a KMS. In the following section, a case study is 
conducted to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed KVAM. 
 
五、結果與討論 
Case Study 
 
The proposed KVAM is applied to the 5 selected CoPs of a leading local A/E consulting firm, 
CECI, Taiwan [18].  
 
Background of the case A/E firm 
 
The CECI is one of leading A/E firms in Taiwan. It was established in 1969 primarily for the 
purpose of promoting Taiwan's technology and assisting in the economic development of Taiwan 
and other developing countries. The number of full-time staffs of the firm is about 1,700. Among 
those around 800 are in-house staffs in headquarters located in Taipei, the other 900 are allocated 
in branches and site offices around the island. Headquarters, braches, and site offices are 
connected by Intranet.  
 
 14
 16
In order to construct the fuzzy membership functions of the RKCTs and KVATs in the RKCP and 
KVAP, questionnaires were provided with the managers of the five selected CoPs. Total number 
of KM cases selected for questionnaire survey is 497, of which 492 responses are valid with 
almost 99% of valid samples (see Table 1). The data sets collected from questionnaire are then 
used for Kohonen learning to obtain the means of fuzzy membership functions associated with 
the associated RKCTs and KVATs. The results of Kohonen learning for the RKCTs and KVATs 
are shown in Table 2 and Table 3, respectively. 
 
Table 1 No. of KM cases selected for questionnaire survey 
Sample statistics 
CoP 
2005 2006 Total 
Sampled Valid Sampled Valid Sampled Valid 
Steel Community 0 0 117 116 117 116 
Rail-Highway-Airport 0 0 160 159 160 159 
Supervision Art 0 0 76 74 76 74 
Digital Globe 37 37 22 21 59 58 
Geotech 0 0 85 85 85 85 
Total 37 37 460 455 497 492 
 
Table 2 Means of fuzzy membership functions for RKCTs 
CoP 
RKCTs 
Non-relevant Data Information Knowledge Wisdom 
Steel Community 5.0  23.1  46.7  65.1  95.0  
Rail-Highway-Airport 5.0  30.5  49.3  73.5  95.0  
Supervision Art 5.0  30.5  60.2  81.8  95.0  
Digital Globe 5.0  26.7  47.9  69.2  95.0  
Geotech 5.0  31.6  50.0  68.2  95.0  
 
Table 3 Means of fuzzy membership functions  for KVATs 
CoP 
KVATs 
Non-relevant Data Information Knowledge Wisdom 
Steel Community 5.0  31.8  43.3  60.5  95.0  
Rail-Highway-Airport 5.0  25.3  49.5  76.5  95.0  
Supervision Art 5.0  34.8  61.8  83.6  95.0  
Digital Globe 5.0  35.7  56.3  73.8  95.0  
Geotech 5.0  20.4  43.2  68.7  95.0  
 
It is noted that the upper- and lower bounds of fuzzy means for both the RKCTs and KVATs are 
normalized to be 5.0 and 95.0, respectively, to avoid the affects of biased assessment. Moreover, 
the average KVA values for all CoPs are set to “50” to avoid favoring specific CoP. 
 Chronic KM 
performance 
i i
KM 
performance 
Attribute 
input 
Figure 6 Chronic monitoring of KVA in KVAS (individual vs. firm’s average) 
 
 
Attribute 
input 
KVA 
profile 
Figure 7 Profile of KVA terms in KVAS 
 
System testing 
 
Traditionally, the KM performance of the case firm was evaluated manually by the managers of 
departments of the case firm. The evaluation was based on some objective information of the 
individual in a period of time, such as the number of participations in KM activities (both for 
knowledge sharing and problem-solving activities) by the individual. In order to verify the 
proposed system, the KVA values calculated by KVAS are tested with the traditional manual 
 18
Application scenarios 
 
Use case I—performance evaluation of a specific CoP/individual  
 
Based on the performance information provided by KVAS, the firm’s KM manager is able to 
determine high and low performance CoPs or departments. Causes can be investigated to remove 
the obstacles of high performance. Similarly, the CoP’s KM manager can monitor the high and 
low performance individuals chronically. An interesting fact was identified that individuals tend 
to participate KM activities enthusiastically before the annual performance evaluation season in 
order to “make up” the required credits; however, the average KVA of those make-up 
participations tend to be low. Moreover, the KVA profile provides information on high 
value-adding patterns that are related to the firm’s incentive program. A sample system interface 
for Indivudal KM performance monitoring is shown in Figure 9. 
 
Staff 
ID Staff 24097 KM 
performance 
Average KM 
performance of 
 
Figure 9 Indivudal KM performance monitoring  
 
Use case II—quality analysis of KM activities   
 
A second application of the proposed KVAS is to evaluate the quality of KM activities based on 
KVA. Traditional manual evaluation approach could not evaluate the quality of individual KM 
activity. The proposed KVAS provides analysis functions for CoP or department managers to 
visualize the quality of KM activities participated by a specific staff in a period of time. Figure 10 
shows an example of the KM activity quality of a specific staff, in which the majority for both 
RKCP activities and the KVAP activities associated with the staff were categorized as 
“information” and “get” respectively. It means that the quality of the raw knowledge created by 
the staff was fair, but the values generated by the others to the raw knowledge were relatively low. 
As a result, the staff needs to improve the quality of KM activities he/she contributes. 
 20
 22
 
One major limitation of the proposed KVAS is that it only provides relative measures of KM 
performance rather than absolute values generated by a KMS. The absolute value-based 
measurement system is always related to the financial metrics as discussed in the literature review 
of this paper. However, the financial performance is usually influenced by some other factors 
beyond KM issues. It is impossible to single out the contribution of KM endeavour to financial 
revenue. A quantitative model proposed by Yu et al. [2] for measuring the time, man-hour, and 
cost saving resulted by a KMS may provide a solution. However, the abovementioned model is 
suitable only for emergent problem-solving activities. The KM activities of a generic CoP may 
not result in significant time and man-hour saving (and thus cost saving), but will trigger a 
knowledge creation process that may contribute to solving problems in the future. The essential 
solution to this problem is establishment of a relationship between KVA value and its monetary 
value. This can be future direction after this research. 
 
Conclusion and Future Work 
 
Conclusion 
 
The paper presents a methodology to measure the KM performance of a generic CoP. A 
Knowledge Value Adding Model (KVAM) is proposed and developed to quantify the value 
generated by two types, knowledge sharing and problem solving, KM activities in a CoP. The 
proposed KVAM consists of two value adding stages: raw knowledge creation process and 
knowledge value adding process. Theoretical model of KVAM are developed and described. The 
fuzzy arithmetic approach is adopted to assist the quantification of KVA values in CoP. A case 
study of KVAM application is conducted. A web service system (called KVAS) is developed to 
implement KVAM. The KM performance measured by the proposed KVAS is then verified with 
the performance data obtained from traditional approach. The testing results indicate that the 
proposed KVAS is in conformance with the traditional KM performance evaluation method, but it 
provides more information to the firm’s and CoP’s KM managers so that the overall performance 
of the KMS is improved. Assumptions and limitations of the proposed method are also addressed 
to validate the applicability of the proposed system. It is concluded that the proposed KVAM is 
useful to quantify the performance of KM activities by calculating values generated in the KVA 
process. With the quantitative performance information, better KM performance improvement 
strategies can be developed.  
 
Future work 
 
The research has developed a method for quantitative evaluation of KM performance of a generic 
 24
[9] British Quality Foundation (2002). The Model in Practice–Using the EFQM Excellence 
Model to Deliver Continuous Improvement, The British Quality Foundation, London, UK. 
[10] Beatham, S., Anumba, C.J., Thorpe, T., and Hedges, I. (2004). “KPIs – a critical appraisal 
of their use in construction,” Benchmarking: An International Journal, 11(1), 93–117. 
[11] Johansson, F. (2002). The Medici Effect: Breakthrough Insights at the Intersection of Ideas, 
Concepts, and Cultures, Harvard Business School Press, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
[12] Nonaka, I. (1994). “A dynamic theory of organizational knowledge creation.” 
Organization Science, 5(1), pp. 14-37. 
[13] Holsapple C. W. and Singh, M. (2001). “The Knowledge Chain Model: Activities for 
Competitiveness,” Expert Systems with Applications, 20(1), pp. 77-98. 
[14] Joshi, K.  (1998). “An investigation of knowledge management characteristics: synthesis, 
Delphi study, analysis.” Dissertation, Carol M. Gatton College of Business and Economics, 
University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA. 
[15] Housel T. J. and Bell, A. (2001). Measuring and Managing Knowledge, McGraw Hill, 
Boston, USA. 
[16] Kohonen, T. (1988). Self-organization and Associative Memory, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 
German. 
[17] Lin, C. T. and Lee, C. S. G. (1991). “Neural-network-based fuzzy logic control and decision 
system.” IEEE Transactions on Computers, 40(12), pp. 1320-1336. 
[18] CECI Engineering Consultants, Inc. (2008). Web site: http://www.ceci.com.tw/, visited 
2008/3. 
[19] Chou, W. S. (2002). Multiple Variables Analysis Using SAS/STAT, Best-Wise Publisher, 
Taipei, Taiwan, pp. 87-89. (in Chinese) 
[20] Yu, W. D., Lin, C. T., Yu, C. T., Liu, S. J., Luo, H. C., and Chang, P. L. “Mining Knowledge 
in KMS Performance Data—a Case Study of an A/E Consulting Firm,” Proceedings of the 
Fourth International Conference on Construction in the 21st Century (CITC-IV), Session of 
Knowledge Management in Construction, July 11~13, 2007, Gold Coast, Australia, 
574-582, 2007. 
 
八、附錄—本研究已發表之著作表列 
1. Yu, W. D., Chang, P.L. and Liu, S.J., “Quantifying Benefits of Knowledge Management 
System: A Case Study of an Engineering Consulting Firm,” Proceedings of International 
Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction 2006 (ISARC 2006), Session 
A4—Planning and Management (1), Oct. 3~5, 2006, Tokyo, Japan, pp. 124~129, 2006. 
2. Yu, W. D., Lin, C. T., Yu, C. T., Liu, S. J., Luo, H. C., and Chang, P. L. “Integrating 
emergent problem-solving with construction knowledge management system,” 
Proceedings of the CME 25 Conference, July 16~18, 2007, University of Reading, 
Reading, UK, 10 pp., 2007. 
3. Yu, W. D., Lin, C. T., Yu, C. T., Liu, S. J., Luo, H. C., and Chang, P. L. “Mining 
Knowledge in KMS Performance Data—a Case Study of an A/E Consulting Firm,” 
Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on Construction in the 21st Century 
行政院國家科學委員會補助團隊赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
                                             97 年 9 月 10 日 
 
報告人姓名 
 
余文德 
 
服務機構
中華大學  
建設系 
 
職稱 
 
教授 
 
研習活動名稱 
中文：第六屆國際工程計算科技研討會研習活動 
英文：The Sixth International Conference on Engineering 
Computational Technology (ECT 2008) 
研習時間 2008/9/2~2008/9/5 地點（國、州、城市） 
 
歐洲/希臘/雅典 
二、 研習心得 
本人此次原本負責主持之場次是在9/3上午11:00~12:30的 “Decision making in engineering 
management”，然而由於該場次前一時段(9:00~10:30)之主持人無法主持，故本人臨時增加前
一時段之場次主持工作。而本人所發表的論文則在第二時段，共發表兩篇論文：(ECT-31) 
“Construction Technological Strategy Planning Based on Patent Analysis”及(ECT-34) 
“Knowledge Value Adding Model for Quantitative Performance Evaluation of the Community 
of Practice in a Consulting Firm”。前者是本人與前指導博士班學生羅紹松所共同研究之
結果，主要在運用專利資料庫之知識來作為營建工發創新規劃之基礎。此一方法與傳統以專家
之勢為基礎之營建技術策略規劃方法不同，改以客觀且龐大的專利資料庫作為知識來源，且以
技術領域為範圍，針對某特定工法技術之專利資訊進行分析。這可改進過去不分技術領域的技
術策略規劃可能無法反應最新技術發展現況，且可能 induce 專家主觀之偏見的缺點，因此是
一個創新的作法。後者則是本人所領導之研究團隊長期結合國科會研究計畫並與國內第一大工
程顧問業(中華顧問工程司)之合作研究成果，主要在針對顧問業知識管理系統之知識社群的績
效進行量化評估。知識管理績效量化評估是產業界長期所面臨的難題，因為知識是無形的其效
益也常常是無形的，如何將組織的知識管理績效作有效評估是知識型產業(例如工程顧問業)所
當務之急。於本研究中本人提出一種新的分析模式(稱為 KVAM)來分析知識社群中之知識加值活
動，並結合模糊理論，發展出一套量化分析方法，以有效地評估組織中成員所進行的知識管理
活動價值，解決了產業界長久以來的困境。完成兩篇論文發表後，分別接受幾個與會者的提問，
不過提問者最有興趣的部分是「知識來源」，亦即模糊法則如何訂定，以及模糊運算如何進行。
很顯然大家對於知識管理以及專利分析都不熟悉，更遑論將其應用於營建產業之問題解決上。
本研討會仍有多場論文發表場次進行，大多在 CST 2008 部分之計算流體與計算結構方面。有
關工程管理相關部分有 “Computational Modelling, Analysis & Simulation”、 “GAs and NNs
in Engineering”及 “Soft Computing”等領域。由於趕搭 9/4 當天班機回國，因此我們並未參
加最後一天(9/5)的研討會。但在參加研討會期間，本也利用 Coffee break 及 lunch 時間與來
參加研討會的各國學者交流，建立不少友誼。 
三、 其他考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
此次趁參與研討會之便順便參訪了希臘附近離島觀光地區，發現希臘雖位於地中海，然其幾個
著名的觀光離島卻是不折不扣的不毛之地，可以想見在古代這些離島應是像馬祖、東引等難以
耕種生產的荒島。然而希臘政府在於廿世紀初開始投入心力，善用其位於歐洲南方及每年四到
九月陽光普照的優勢，將其發展成為世界聞名的觀光勝地。看看別人，想想自己，深深覺得台
灣要發展觀光的資源與本錢並不希臘差。希臘有歐洲，台灣有中國大陸；希臘有歷史古蹟(但
並不多)，台灣有美食與因戰爭而融合的中國文化。所不同的是希臘國民的文化素養、語文能
力及生活素質似乎高於國人。因此，台灣要發展成為世界及的觀光勝地，首要工作在於提升國
民的文化與生活素養。 
 
四、 建議事項 
ECT 為「國際土木計算營(Civil Camp)」所 organize 的一個研討會，而 Civil Camp 之發起人
Prof. Topping 則是英國 Heriot-Watt University 教授。該組織長期透過舉辦國際性大型學術
研討會而享有聲譽，期中最重要的有 CST 及 ECT 兩大系列，皆是以計算機於工程應用為主要領
域，但也接受其他工程相關領域(如營建管理等)之投稿。本次營管相關論文主要集中在
“Decision making in engineering management”及 “Computational Modelling, Analysis &
Simulation”等兩個場次，研究主題仍在計算理論及資訊技術之應用等，有關模式建構與創新
則較少。由此次參與之經驗發現，工程問題解決之創新模式可以是未來發展的研究領域，特別
是傳統困難管理問題的創新解決方法是國外學者較少碰觸的課題，也將是吾人可以突出的領
域。 
 
 
 
