be obtained. The results obtained are useful in 
designing fast and efficient interrogators. 
英文關鍵詞： RFID, anti-collision, EPCglobal, supply chain 
management 
 
 2
 
中文摘要 
 
在供應鏈管理應用中，經常需要讀取眾多物件的資料。射頻辨識技術已被廣泛應用在此類應用
中。因為大多數貼於物件上之標籤都是被動元件，它沒有主動傳送資訊及感測週邊環境的能力。因此
需要一個演算法來處理多個標如何同時傳送其資訊給讀取器的需求。此類演算法也可稱為防碰撞方
法。在此類方法中DFSA (Dynamic frame slotted Aloha) 是最常用的一種，在應用此演算法時，讀取器
需要持續不斷的估計尚未被讀取的標籤數量，並在適當的時機決定下一個訊框長度。一般而言，防碰
撞方法的效能，主要和標籤數量估計準確度和訊框長度之適合度有關。為了提高標籤估計的準確度，
大部份的研究採用複雜度高的模式或方法，這將造成實作的困難。本計畫首先分析標籤估計的準確度
對防碰撞演算法效能真正的影響程度，再根據結果提出一個可行的方法。經由程式模擬分析，證明我
們的方法非常容易實作於能力有限的單晶片系統，且只需付出1%的效能。本計畫也將防碰撞演算法實
作於一個實際的RFID平台，並進行相關的量測。 
關鍵詞: 射頻辨識系統、防碰撞、供應鏈管理 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Dynamic frame slotted Aloha (DFSA) has been widely adopted to solve the anticollision problem in a 
radio frequency identification (RFID) system. In a DFSA procedure, the interrogator needs to continuously 
estimate tag backlog and select a new frame length for identifying the backlog. Intuitively, the accuracy of the 
tag estimator will affect the read performance. Hence, a considerable amount of research effort has been 
invested to improve the accuracy of backlog estimation. The improvement in general comes at the expense of 
large computation load and may lead to a serious challenge if one needs to implement such a kind of 
estimators in a real RFID system. This project analyzes the influence of estimation error on read performance. 
Based on the analysis, we propose a feasible and easy-to-implement anticollision algorithm. Our proposed 
algorithm can achieve a normalized throughput of 35% that is very close to the theoretical maximum 36.1% 
for an EPCglobal UHF Class-1 Generation-2 system. The easy-to-implement advantage of our algorithm 
comes at the expense of only 1% reduction in normalized throughput as compared with the case where 
maximum throughput can be obtained. The results obtained are useful in designing fast and efficient 
interrogators. 
Keywords—RFID, anti-collision, EPCglobal, supply chain management 
 4
is detected, the Qfp value increases by w. If empty is detected, the Qfp value decreases by w. As the round 
value of Qfp is different from the current Q value, the interrogator will immediately adjust the current Q value. 
However, the standard does not specify how to determine the values of w. It only recommends the range of 
0.1- 0.5 for w and using small values if the current Q value is large and vice versa. The lack of clear rules for 
the in-frame adjustment has led to a large amount of studies. 
 
 
Fig. 1 Q-algorithm in EPCglobal UHF Class-1 Generation-2. 
 
Lee et al. proposed an improved Q-algorithm where the w variable was replaced by two weights w1 and w2 
[12]. The former is used as a decrement for the Qfp value when an empty slot is observed. The latter is used as 
an increment when a collision slot is detected. The two weights are obtained based on a mathematical model 
for various observations on slots under the assumption that the interrogator knows the exact number of tags. 
The frame length is adjusted only at the end of each read round. The method can obtain 33.3% normalized 
throughput. 
In [13], Knerr et al. developed a complex formula for the probability distribution of any observed event 
defined by the number of empty, single, and collision slots. Based on the probability distribution, they 
proposed a slot-wise maximum likelihood method for tag estimation. This method has superior estimation 
performance as compared with other known estimators. The superior performance, however, comes at the 
expense of large computational load. 
To increase the accuracy of tag estimation, most of the previous methods require large computational load 
or large amount of memory. Although a more accurate estimation of tag quantity can improve anticollision 
performance, the required costs may be extremely high. From the implementation point of view, a 
compromise between performance and complexity should be considered especially when the anticollision 
algorithm will be implemented in a real RFID interrogator using single-chip microprocessor.  
In this paper, we propose a feasible anticollision algorithm which can be easily implemented in a 
computation-limited reader and can achieve throughput very close to the theoretical maximum. To develop 
such a feasible anticollision algorithm, we begin with the analysis of the impact of tag estimation error on the 
throughput performance of DFSA anticollision algorithm. From the analysis, we find that the tag estimation 
 6
 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 2  (a) single tag reply, (b) collided reply and no reply 
 
III. THE PROPOSED METHOD  
Although the EPCglobal Class-1 Generation-2 standard adopts DFSA for anticollision problem, it does not 
specify how to dynamically adjust frame length. In this section, we derive a comprehensive and 
easy-to-implement approach for adjusting frame length in DFSA. 
First, consider n tags that need to be read using frame length L. Assume the number of tags allocated in a 
given time slot is a binomial distribution. With a total of L slots, the channel usage efficiency (also called 
normalized throughput) is given by [9] 
 
1)11(  n
LL
nU .        (1) 
 
Fig. 3 presents the channel efficiency as a function of the number of tags for different frame lengths. Each 
curve has a maximum value equal to approximately 0.368 (e-1) when the number of tags equals the frame 
length. In fact, the value e-1 is the theoretical maximum throughput of DFSA. However, if there is a constraint 
 8
Table I  Relation between frame length and suitable tag quantity 
Q Frame length 2Q Tag quantity 
2 4 1-5 
3 8 6-11 
4 16 12-22 
5 32 23-44 
6 64 45-89 
7 128 90-177 
8 256 178-355 
9 512 356-710 
10 1024 711-1420 
 
 
Also, the frame length limitation can be viewed as a type of tag estimate error. Assume the actual number of 
tags equals 2Q and it can be estimated as one of the possible values listed in Table I.  In this case, the average 
estimate error can be calculated as 
  


 Q
n
nn
Q
Q
QQ
Q
Q
n
nn
error
2
1
2
|2|
)1(
1
12
.       (3) 
Using the data in Table I, we can calculate the average error and its value is about 18%. Putting the result 
from (2) together, we can conclude that a tag estimate error of 18% can cause only 0.7% reductions in channel 
efficiency. 
Therefore, it seems that using complex model to improve the accuracy of backlog estimation is not a good 
strategy to improve the read efficiency of DFSA anticollision algorithm. This kind of strategy may gain little 
improvement in throughput but cost too much computation load. Therefore, we focus on how an interrogator 
adjusts frame length during a read process and on what an interrogator can do if inappropriate frame length is 
detected before the end of a read round. The latter situation can be treated as early adjustment for frame length. 
A simple but efficient method is required to reduce the computation complexity for estimating the number of 
collision tags. Based on Schoute’s method, we propose a feasible estimation method in which the tag backlog 
is estimated according to the number of collision slots. 
The proposed anticollision algorithm is shown in Fig. 4. The reader initiates a read round by broadcasting a 
query command to all tags under its coverage. This query command carries a parameter Q, which corresponds 
to frame length 2Q. This also means there are 2Q time slots in the current read round. At the ith time slot, the 
reader counts the number of empty slots Ei, the number of singly occupied slots Si, and the number of 
collision slots Ci. Then, the estimated tag quantity to be read at the begin of the current read round is given by 
iLCkSn ii /)(ˆ         (4) 
 10
IV. RESULTS 
The performance of the proposed algorithm and the reference methods was examined by carrying out 
extensive simulations based on the Monte Carlo technique. To ensure the convergence of results, we 
simulated each algorithm with 5000 experiments.   
We first compare the performance of various anticollision algorithms.  Fig. 5 shows the simulation results 
for normalized throughput according to (6). The initial frame length is set to 64. The results show that the 
proposed algorithm can achieve higher throughput when the number of tags is greater than 100. To reduce the 
complexity of implementation, our method uses less accurate method for backlog estimate. In addition, we 
focus on the in-frame adjustment to fast and efficiently adjust frame length.  The results show that the early 
adjustment can obtain better improvement of throughput than using much more accurate tag estimator. 
 
Fig. 5 Comparison of normalized throughput for anticollision algorithms. 
 
It can also be found that as the number of tags is greater than 100, the throughput of the proposed algorithm 
converges to 35%, which is a little less than the optimal throughput 36.1%. As mentioned before, the 
easy-to-implement advantage of our algorithm comes from its simple heuristic tag estimate method. But in 
fact, this simplification pays the cost of only 1% reduction in throughput. 
Moreover, the tag estimate method we adopt makes it easy to implement in a computation-limited 
interrogator, such as an RFID module embedded with an 8051 single-chip microprocessor. The main 
computations for our algorithm include multiplying the number of collision slots by a coefficient and 
maintaining the relation between frame length and related range of tag quantity. 
In most applications, the number of objects is usually not known before the read process is started. Also, 
each interrogator has a default initial frame length, which is unlikely to be the same as the number of the 
objects. Hence, the initial frame length will affect the performance of anticollision algorithms. For instance, if 
 12
 
 
(a) 
 
(b)  
 
(c) 
Fig. 6  Effect of initial frame length on the normalized throughput, (a) proposed method, (b) Vogt’s method, (c) 
method used by Lee, et al. 
 14
 
 
Fig. 9 Experimental results for total time slots. 
 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
In this project, a feasible and easy-to-implement anticollision algorithm has been proposed for EPCglobal 
UHF Class-1 Generation-2 systems. Our algorithm is based on the mechanism of early adjustment of frame 
length and a simple but sufficiently accurate estimator for tag population size. We believe that the proposed 
algorithm provides a good compromise between complexity and performance for most RFID interrogators 
whose computation ability or memory is limited. Moreover, taking into account the constraint on available 
frame length as specified by the EPCglobal UHF Class-1 Generation-2 standard, the relation between a given 
frame length and suitable range of tag quantity has been derived for improving throughput performance. 
Based on the relation, the interrogator can decide when to quit the current read round and how to adjust the 
frame length. 
The results reveal that since the frame length is subject to a power of 2, the maximum throughput of 
DFSA anticollision is 36.1% that can be treated as the theoretical maximum for EPCglobal Class-1 
Generation-2 systems. It is observed from the performance analysis that our proposed algorithm can achieve a 
normalized throughput of 35% that is in fact very close to the theoretical maximum. The easy-to-implement 
advantage of our algorithm comes at the expense of only 1% reduction in throughput as compared with the 
case where maximum throughput can be obtained. Besides, it is worth noting that the performance of our 
algorithm is almost independent on the initial frame length.    
 
 
 
 16
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿□撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本研究計畫所提出之防碰撞演算法，是一個可行、並很容易就可以實作於計
算能力有限之單晶系統，這對於大多數之 RFID 讀取器而言是相當實用的。本
研究計畫的成果已投稿至 IEEE Transactions on Automatic Science and 
Engineer，同時本人也將進一步評估是否向有關單位申請專利。目前，國內業
界尚無能力提出可以改善讀取效率之演算法，只能依賴國外原廠公司所提供
之方法，並且要付高額之授權費，我們的研究成果對提昇業界自主研發能力
也會有所幫助。 
 
 
 
ii 
中文摘要 
本次出國之目的在參加由日本九州產業大學，於日本福岡舉行的 2012 IEEE 
UIC,IEEE ATC,ICA3PP 聯合國際學術研討會，並且親自發表論文，論文題目為: A 
new RFID Anti-collision algorithms for the EPCglobal UHF Class-1 Generation-2 
standard. 會議期間為 2012 年 9 月 4日至 7日。 
本次研討會除了發表論文外，也和國外學者進行交流，並且掌握國外學者所
做的研究題目和方向，比較引起本人注意的文章，包括由荷蘭學者 Aravind Kota 
Gopalakrishna, Tanir Ozelebi, Antonio Liotta, Johan J. Lukkien 所發表的文章: 
Treatment of Missing Data in Intelligent Lighting Applications. 第二篇文章，探討的
是導航的路徑選擇，題目為 Development of a route finding system for manual 
wheelchair users based on actual measurement data, 作者是來自日本的 Yasuaki 
Sumida, Masaki Hayashi, Kazuaki Goshi, and Katsuya Matsunaga。另外一篇文章探討
如何應用第四代行動通訊網路之基礎建設及智慧型手機於智慧型運輸系統中，題
目為 Performance Analysis of LTE Smartphones-based Vehicle-to-Infrastructure 
Communication. 作者是 Hassan Abid, Tae Choong Chung, Sungyoung Lee, and Saad 
Qaisar. 
參加此次研討會發現，台灣的研究實力在東南亞地區具有相當大的份量，國
內幾位學者也積極參與研討會相關工作，這對提昇我國學術地位及影響力有很大
的幫助。此外，來自中國的學者也佔有相當的比率，雖然人數不如台灣學者多，
但可以看出他們相當積極的態度，這是值得我們關注的狀況。 
 
1 
1. 參加會議經過 
本次出國之目的在參加由日本九州產業大學，於日本福岡舉行的
2012 IEEE UIC,IEEE ATC,ICA3PP 聯合國際學術研討會，並且親自發表論
文，論文題目為: A new RFID Anti-collision algorithms for the EPCglobal 
UHF Class-1 Generation-2 standard. 會議期間為 2012 年 9 月 4日至 7日。 
本次出國行程主要如下所述：本人於 8 月 31 日搭乘華航班機，由桃
園國際機場起飛，於當日抵達日本福岡國際機場，再轉搭市區地鐵抵達
福岡。於 9月 3日入住九州博多車站附近之 HAKATA MIYAKO HOTEL。
於 9 月 4 日搭乘日本國鐵之火車到達位於郊區之九州產業大學校區，並
且向研討會大會辦理報到手續。當場攜回大會手冊、論文集及 CD 光碟乙
片及註冊費收據。參加為期 4 天的研討會後，於 9 月 8 日，由福岡國際
機場搭乘華航班機返抵機桃園國際機場。 
此次研討會共 4 天，大會選在距福岡市區約 20 公里之郊區舉行，當
地遠離市區繁忙的交通，且校園景觀相當美麗，十分適合學者及研究人
員進行研究心得之分享與交換。也因為地處郊區，交通上對外國訪客而
言，是有些不便之處，因為本人住於市區中心，必須每日往返旅館和校
園。本人之論文被安排於 7 日上午場次發表，本人發表論文之投影片資
料如附錄，會中本人把在射頻辨識系統之多重接取技術所得之研究結
果，和與會的人分享，並進行交流。研討會於 7 日結束所有議程。 
2. 與會心得 
在此次研討會中發表的論文相當多，領域也相當廣泛，包括電腦、
通訊、資訊工程、影像處理等領域。演講者來自世界各國。但這次研討
會除了歐美日等國家之學者及研究人員外，有不小比例的文章來自於中
國及台灣。尤其來自台灣的學者，有多人擔任會議重要工作，如會議主
持人等，例如國立成功大學的陳敬教授就擔任其中一場會議的主持人，
這是此次研討會之一大特色。會中也遇到一些台灣的學者，包括成功大
學陳敬教授、虎尾科大林易泉教授、高苑科大張耀堂教授、王春清教授
等學者。 
3 
 
另外一篇來自韓國的文章，探討以智慧型手機為基礎的車輛通訊之
效能分析，題目為 Performance Analysis of LTE Smartphones-based 
Vehicle-to-Infrastructure Communication. 作者是 Hassan Abid, Tae 
Choong Chung, Sungyoung Lee, and Saad Qaisar. 
這篇文章主要在討論，如何應用第四代行動通訊網路之基礎建設及
智慧型手機於智慧型運輸系統中(Intelligent transportation system)。用此架
構，可利用行動通訊業者無所不在的基地台當做路邊裝置(road side 
unit)，並將智慧型手機當為車上機，用此方法讓車輛可以進行通訊。同時
可以省去建置路邊裝置的龐大費用，這是此方法的最大優點。作者採用
4G 寬頻網路平台及 LTE 之技術，其架構如下圖所示： 
 
5 
附 錄 
與會照片(圖右為本人) 
 
 
 
1. Introduction
Brief of RFID Systems
Radio frequency identification is an advanced technology
for identifying objects, as compared with bar code
technique.
1. Introduction
Motivation
A large amount of objects/tags need to be read in many
applications such as logistics management.
The read efficiency is critical for reading all the tags when
il bl ti i li it dava a e me s m e .
1. Introduction
The three possible outcomes in each slot
1. Introduction
EPCglobal Gen2 protocol provides a Q-
algorithm for tag multiple access    .
2. Proposed method
The key value for increasing Q-value
upup nn
upM LnLEMK )
11()11(2 1  
Th k l f d i Q l
LL
e ey va ue or ecreas ng -va ue
L
L
L
L
nMEK lowlow nnlowE   )11()11(2 1
2. Proposed method
Frame
The values of nlow and nup for each frame length
length 8 16 32 64 128 256
nlow & nup 6-11 12-22 23-44 45-89 90-177 178-355
3. Results
A test platform for a real RFID system
AS3992 UHF Gen2 Reader chip
 It is produced by Austriamicrosystem
 A solution for UHF RFID reader system
 EPCglobal Gen2 full protocol support
8051 MCU module
 Running anti-collision program coded in C
 Monitoring experimental data via RS232 communication
interface
3. Results
Experimental Environment 
4. Conclusions 
The proposed method can provide a feasible solution for
updating the Q value for EPCglobal Gen2 anti-collision
algorithm.
Our method has better read performance than the
original Q-algorithm especially when the number of tags
is large (>500).
W h b ilt i t l l tf i hi he ave u an exper men a p a orm n w c we can
perform any anti-collision algorithm coded in C.
In the future, we will put the proposed method into the
experimental platform and take the experimental results
t th d fo compare e rea per ormance.
Th k  f   li t i !     an s or your s en ng
Q&A
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳文字 計畫編號：100-2221-E-006-216- 
計畫名稱：應用於物流管理之射頻辨識系統防碰撞演算之開發與實作 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
計畫成果已發表 1
篇國際研討會論
文，目前也已投稿
到 IEEE 
Transcations on 
Automatic 
Science and 
Engineer 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
