1. Introduction 
This study is to observe the flame structure transitions and measure temperature 
distributions along the vertical centerline of a single Tsuji burner at a fixed cylinder 
surface fuel-ejection velocity, Vw = 5 cm/s, ejected from the forward half part of the 
burner. The varying parameters are the incoming airflow velocity, Uin, and the 
methane to nitrogen ratio, α, in the ejection mixture. The purpose is to understand 
the physical mechanism for the flame transition over a Tsuji burner and dilution 
effects of nitrogen Basically, the present study is an extension and modification of 
Chang’s experiment [1], which used 99.99% methane (CH4) as the fuel from the Tsuji 
burner. In this work, the major improvement is to employ a gas mixer to generate the 
assigned mixture of nitrogen and methane and the instrumentation in test section to 
measure the flame temperature. Those will be described later. 
 
2. Literature Review 
Chang [1] built a wind tunnel to observe the flame lift-off phenomena over a 
porous burner and further to explain the flame configurations and transition processes 
by using a series of photographs.  The primary parameters in the experiment were 
the incoming airflow velocity and fuel ejection velocity, respectively.  There were 
two ejection areas, the half fuel ejection area and the full ejection one, under 
consideration.  For the case of the half fuel ejection area, he found that the stand–off 
distance decreases and flame length increases with an increase of inflow velocity due 
to the greater flame stretch effect when fuel ejection rate is fixed.  As the increase of 
inflow velocity, the envelope, wake, side, lift-off and late wake flames appeared in 
order.  However, with a higher fixing fuel ejection rate, the envelope flame directly 
is transformed into lift-off flame without the appearance of wake flame as inflow 
velocity increases.   
Chen [2] further discussed the relationship between the resultant flames and the 
corresponding cold flow field without combustion. The smoke-generation technique 
by using oil spread over a heated wire and the laser-sheet lighting system were used to 
visualize the cold flow field around porous cylindrical burner in a wind tunnel.  She 
found that in a critical incoming flow velocity, the wake is getting more and more 
closer to the rear surface of cylinder under a fixed fuel ejection velocity when Re is 
increased.  It might be attributed to the pressure distribution of the flow field.  
When the static pressure of the downstream wake is greater than the one caused by 
the blowing over the cylinder surface, the wake is pressed back to the rear of cylinder 
surface. 
Tsuji and Yamaoka [3] studied the laminar counterflow diffusion flame 
 2
oxygen concentration in the oxidizer stream was decreased, the flame luminosity 
became weak, and finally the flame blew off. 
Dirk et al. [8] utilized Tsuji burner to study the effects of air preheating and 
simultaneous dilutions of fuel and air stream with nitrogen, argon, and carbon dioxide 
on the critical strain rate. The air temperature was varied in the wide range from 
ambient temperature (285 K) to as high as 1500 K. The critical strain rate, 
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ +
∞
−∞
∞
−∞
,
,
,
,12
air
F
air
Fair
V
V
R
V
ρ
ρ
, for extinction of methane-air diffusion flame in preheated 
air was measured. When air is diluted to various degrees with argon, carbon dioxide, 
or nitrogen, the critical strain rates increase exponentially with air temperatures. The 
obtained critical strain rates from experiments for methane-air diffusion flames in 
preheated air were reported for air temperature up to 1500 K.  Because it was 
significantly higher than the auto-ignition temperature of stoichiometry methane-air 
mixture, the extinction occurred for all temperatures. 
 
3. Experimental Apparatus and Operation Procedure 
3.1 Experimental Apparatus 
Basically, the present experimental apparatus is same as that in Chang. [1], 
except a gas mixer is added to generate desired methane-nitrogen mixture. The 
experimental setup consists of three major elements, which are the wind tunnel, gas 
mixer and Tsuji burner. Its schematic configuration is shown in Fig. 1. 
 
Termocouple 
RS-232 Computer 
M.F.C
Digital camera 
Gas Mixture
AMCA210-85 Blower 
CH4 N2 
Figure 1. Schematic drawing of overall experimental system 
 4
the forward half surface of burner is fixed at ejection 0.05 m/s.  However, the actual 
experimental process is that it fixes the assigned composition of fuel firstly, then, 
changes the incoming velocity, from 0.41 to 2.63 m/sec, to observe the corresponding 
flame configuration. The same procedure is carried out again when another fuel 
composition is taken into consideration.  
 
4.1 Flame Structure Analyses 
Fig.2 is used to illustrate the structures of envelop, lift-off and wake flames 
under 100% methane in fuel (no nitrogen). The flames surrounding the porous 
cylinder and spreading to downstream in the low-speed flow regime, from 0.41 to 
1.24 m/sec, are shown in Figs. 4.2(a) and 4.2(b). such the flame is defined as envelope 
flame. When the inflow velocity increases up to 1.26 m/sec, the flame front is broken 
suddenly and is retreated to far downstream of the rear surface of the cylindrical 
burner.  It is defined as flame transition region (see Fig. 3), whose flame 
configurations are shown in Figs. 2(c) and 2(d). In this region, the lift-off flame front 
in the range of Uin between 1.24 to 1.53 m/ sec oscillates back-and-forth without a 
specified frequency because the balance position changes all the time and it can only 
survive for 5 to 8 seconds. When the inflow velocity exceeds 1.56 m/sec, the flame 
front retreats along the cylinder surface, then the flame front can stabilize on the rear 
part of the cylinder as shown in Figs. 2(e) and2(f). Its existing range is from Uin = 
1.56 to 2.63 m/s. The ejecting fuel from the forward burner surface is mixed with the 
incoming oxidizer to make up a flammable mixture, which is carried to downstream 
and subsequently ignited by the recirculated hot gas behind the cylinder to initiate the 
reaction to form the wake flame.  
 
 6
4.2 Flame Transition Trend 
 
The ordinate is the incoming velocity, whereas the abscissa is the mass fraction 
of methane in the methane/nitrogen fuel mixture (α ), which is defined as follows. 
2244
44
4
NNCHCH
CHCH
CH MXMX
MX
Y ×+×
×= ( )
2444
44
1 NCHCHCH
CHCH
MXMX
MX
×−+×
×=  
4
4
976.11016.28
04.16
CH
CH
X
X
−
×= =α  
Note that it reassigns  as 
4CH
Y α  here. 
Fig. 3 depicts the resultant flame structures as functions of Uin, and α . 
 
Fig. 3 the flame transition limit velocity under different α  and Uin 
 
It can be seen that in the higher methane mass fraction regime, ( %60>α ), the 
envelop, transition and wake flames appear in order as the incoming flow velocity 
 8
4.4 Further Work Suggest  
Several modifications are suggested for further modification of the present 
experiment. The particle image velocimetry (PIV) incorporates with a LASER system 
to generate a picture for the moving magnesium oxide particles ejected into the 
uniform air stream to analyze the flow pattern and flow velocity in various flame 
structures. The flame temperature distribution is measured by Schlieren system that 
can further explain the flame structure. Furthermore, to investigate the duality and 
hysteresis phenomena by varying the incoming airflow velocity from a higher one to 
lower one under different methane to nitrogen mass is also proposed. 
 
Reference 
1. C. C. Chang, Experimental Visualization of Counterflow Diffusion Flame over a 
Porous Cylinder, M. S. thesis, National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan, 2002. 
2. C. H. Chen and S. S. Tsa, Flame stabilization over a Tsuji burner by four-step 
chemical reaction, Combustion Science and Technology, vol.  175, pp.2061-2093 
3. C. H. Chen and F. B. Weng, Flame Stabilization and Blowoff Over a Porous 
Cylinder, Combustion Science and Technology, vol. 73, pp. 427-446, 1990. 
4. H. Z. Chen, Experimental Visualization for Flows over the Porous Spheres and 
Cylinder with/without Blowing, M. S. thesis, National Chiao Tung University, 
Taiwan, 2004. 
5. H. Tsuji and I. Yamaoka, The Counterflow Diffusion Flame in the Forward 
Stagnation Region of a Porous Cylinder, Eleventh Symposium (International) on 
Combustion, pp. 979-984, 1967.  
6. H. Tsuji, and I. Yamaoka, The Structure of Counterflow Diffusion Flame in the 
Stagnation Region of a Porous Cylinder, Twelfth Symposium (International) on 
Combustion, pp. 997-1005, 1969.  
7. H. Tsuji and I. Yamaoka, Structure Analysis of Counterflow Diffusion Flames in 
the Forward Region of a Porous Cylinder, Thirteenth Symposium (International) 
on Combustion, pp. 723-731, 1971.   
8. H. Tsuji and I. Yamaoka, Structure Analysis of Anomalous behavior of 
methane-air and methane-hydrogen-air flames diluted with nitrogen in a 
stagnation flow, Thirteenth Symposium (International) on Combustion, pp. 
145-152, 1992.   
9. H. Tsuji and S. Ishizuka, An Experimental Study of Effect of Inert Gas on 
Extinction of Lamina Diffusion Flames, Eighteenth Symposium (International) on 
Combustion, pp. 695-703, 1981
 10
報告內容包括下列各項： 
 
一、參加會議經過： 
第十六屆傳輸現象國際會議於8月29日~9月1日在捷克的捷克技
術大學舉辦，來自各國的學生、教授以及公司的研究人員踴躍參與此
次的研討會，會議人數將近200人，會議總共四天，第一天早上八點
到會場辦理報到手續並且領取會議相關資料，會議開始依據不同的燃
燒研究領域安排大型會議廳發表研究成果，由各論文作者依表列次序
上台發表，晚上舉行接待茶會，讓與會者彼此認識與交換研究心得。
學生論文發表被安排在第三天下午三點半發表，經過會議主持人簡短
的介紹，學生上台開始十五分鐘的口頭報告，報告完畢後有五分鐘的
討論，會後討論熱烈，學生也盡力回答在座先進的問題。 
  
二、與會心得： 
在個人發表研究成果之餘，亦參加了會議中數個與個人研究領
域相關的議程，並聽取各地學者專家所發表的研究成果及看法。此次
參與國際學術會議令學生獲益良多，也認識了一些國外學者與博士班
學生，在會議中交換了不同的看法與意見，學習到許多不同的觀點與
學習精神，讓自己在本研究領域中有更進一步的了解，相信對未來的
研究會有相當大的幫助。 
 2
ISTP-16, 2005, PRAGUE 16TH INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON TRANSPORT PHENOMENA 
  
1 
EXPERIMENTAL AND NUMERICAL STUDIES FOR 
FLAME SPREAD OVER A FINITE-LENGTH PMMA WITH 
RADIATION EFFECT 
 
Wen-Kuei Chang and Chiun-Hsun Chen*, Ton-Min Liou** 
*Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chiao Tung University 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 30050, R.O.C. 
**Department of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 30050, R.O.C. 
 
Keywords: Ignition delay; Downward flame spread; PMMA; radiation effect 
 PAPER TITLE
wind tunnel. The variable parameters were the 
velocity and the temperature of flows and the 
thickness of fuel. They found that flame spread 
rate increases with an increase of the temperature 
of flow, a decrease of the flow velocity or the 
thickness of fuel. Their image results further 
demonstrated that the thermal boundary layer 
becomes thicker when the temperature of 
incoming flow is higher under a fixed flow 
velocity or the incoming flow velocity is slower 
at the same flow temperature. Wu et al. [1] 
developed an unsteady combustion model with 
mixed convection to investigate the flame spread 
behaviors of a thick PMMA slab with an infinite 
length in an opposed flow environment. 
Simulation results of flame spread rate were 
compared with the measurements obtained by 
Pan [7]. The agreements were well in general 
except at the low-speed flow regime.  In 
addition, this numerical study indicated that the 
ignition delay time increases with an increase of 
the opposed flow velocity or a decrease of the 
opposed flow temperature. The ignition delay 
time is almost constant at a low opposed flow 
velocity. Nakamura [9] numerically studied the 
enclosure effect on flame spread over solid fuel 
in microgravity. Because the confinement of the 
flow field and the thermal expansion initiated by 
heat and mass addition in the chamber, the flame 
spread rate for the case with enclosure is faster 
than the one without any enclosure. The 
predictions also showed that the enclosure effect 
is more significant at the low flow velocity 
condition and becomes less important with 
increasing imposed flow velocity. Fujita et al. 
[10] experimentally studied the radiative ignition 
on paper sheet in microgravity. The results 
showed that the gas phase temperature becomes 
higher than that of the solid surface before 
ignition, and the main mechanism of radiative 
solid ignition here is due to the gas phase 
reaction. Furthermore, the ignition delay time 
strongly depends on the oxygen concentration 
and ambient pressure. It decreases with a higher 
oxygen concentration or ambient pressure. 
Kumar et al. [11] used a two dimensional 
flame spread model with flame radiation to 
compare the extinction limits and spreading rates 
in opposed and concurrent spreading flames over 
thin solids.  The varying parameters were 
oxygen percentage, free stream velocity, and 
flow entrance length. Numerical results showed 
that at low free stream velocities with shorter 
entrance length, the flame spread rates are higher 
and have a lower oxygen extinction limit, 
whereas in high free stream velocities, the flame 
spread rates are lower and have a higher oxygen 
extinction limit. The flame spread rate in 
opposed flow varies with free stream velocity in 
a non-monotonic manner, with a peak rate at an 
intermediate free stream velocity.  The flame 
spread rate in concurrent flow increases linearly 
with free stream velocity. Kumar et al. [12] also 
presented a numerical study on flame-surface 
radiation interaction in flame spread over thin 
solid fuels in quiescent microgravity and in 
normal gravity environments. It was observed 
that the flame in microgravity is very sensitive to 
the surface radiation properties. The fuel with 
high solid absorptivity can absorb substantial 
flame radiation and flame spreads faster than the 
corresponding adiabatic case irrespective of 
value of solid emissivity. 
As mentioned previously, the modifications 
of present work from the original combustion 
model of Wu et al. includes the several effects, 
such as the enclosure, the finite-length fuel plate 
and the radiation. The entire process from 
ignition to subsequent flame spread will be 
examined and depicted in detail, and the 
simulated results will compare with the 
predictions of Wu et al. [1] and the 
measurements of Pan’s experiment [7]. 
 
2 Mathematical Model 
Figure 1 illustrates the physical configuration of 
two-dimensional ignition over a vertically 
oriented thick solid fuel in a mixed convective 
environment. The test section of wind tunnel is 
70 cm long with 10 cm height. The solid fuel 
plate used in present simulation is 30 cm long 
and the thicknesses are 0.82 cm and 1.74 cm, 
respectively, which are exactly the same as those 
used in Pan’s experiments [7]. For 0<t , a 
steady flow in wind tunnel is built up in advance 
over entire test section. As , an external 
heat flux in Gaussian distribution, in which the 
width is 0.5 cm with a peak value of 5 W/cm
0≥t
2, is 
3  
 PAPER TITLE
82.0=τ cm under the fixed flow velocity and 
310 320 330 340 350 360
Opposed flow temperature (K)
12.00
14.00
16.00
18.00
20.00
Ig
ni
tio
n 
de
la
y 
tim
e 
(s
)
40 cm/s
70 cm/s
100 cm/s
40 cm/s
70 cm/s
100 cm/s
 
Figure 2. Ignition delay time versus the opposed flow 
temperature under different opposed flow velocity for 
cm82.0=τ (by solid lines) and cm74.1=τ (by dashed 
lines),respectively. 
temperature. Comparing with the thinner solid 
fuel, the thicker one has greater thermal inertial 
that requires more energy to reach the ignition 
temperature, increasing the ignition delay time. 
The above trends have been confirmed by the 
predictions of Wu et al. [1] and Wu [15] and the 
experimental observations of Pan [7], Chen [8]. 
Figure 3 presents the ignition delay time as 
a function of the opposed flow temperature 
under a fixed flow velocity ( 40=∞u cm/s) with 
and without radiation effects. In general, the 
ignition delay time decreases with an increase of 
the opposed flow temperature no matter what the 
effect of radiation is considered or not. However, 
the ignition delay time without radiation effect is 
shorter than the one with radiation effect. It can 
be explained as follow. Figure 4 displays the 
distributions of heat fluxes along the solid fuel 
surface at the instant just before ignition 
( st 72.13= ).  and  are the external input 
radiant heat flux in Gaussian distribution and the 
conduction heat flux from the gas, and the gas 
phase radiation feedback and radiation heat loss 
from the solid fuel surface are represented by 
 and . The sum of total heat fluxes is the 
net heat flux on the solid fuel surface, . The 
pos i t i ve  va lue  i nd i ca t e s  t h e  so l i d  fue l  ga i n s  
energy from the gas phase and the negative one 
exq cq
grq srq
netq
310 320 330 340 350 360
Opposed flow temperature (K)
8
10
12
14
16
Ig
ni
tio
n 
de
la
y 
tim
e 
(s
)
finite length PMMA with radiation effect
infinite length PMMA with radiation effect
finite length PMMA without radiation effect
infinite length PMMA without radiation effect
 
Fig. 3. Ignition delay time versus the opposed flow 
temperature under a fixed opposed flow velocity 
scmu /40=∞  with and without radiation effect, 
respectively. 
 
Fig. 4. The distribution of heat fluxes along the solid fuel 
surface at st 72.13= , KTi 313= , scmu /40=∞  with and 
without radiation effects, respectively. 
 
represents the heat loss from the solid fuel 
surface. From this figure, it can be found that the 
net heat flux ( ) near the origin is higher in the 
case without radiation effect. The solid fuel can 
receive more energy for pyrolysis and produces 
the fuel vapor more effective, shorting the 
formation time of flammable mixture. Therefore, 
the ignition becomes faster without the radiation 
effect. The inset of Figure 5 shows the 
netq
5  
 PAPER TITLE
Fig. 5a. The flame spread rate versus the opposed flow 
temperature under different opposed flow velocity for 
82.0=τ cm. 
 
310 320 330 340 350 360
Opposed flow temperature (K)
0.002
0.003
0.004
0.005
0.006
0.007
Fl
am
e 
sp
re
ad
 ra
te
 (c
m
/s
)
pre. results of present model
pre. results of Wu (2003)
exp. results of Pan (1999)
40 cm/s
70 cm/s
100 cm/s
 
Fig. 5b. The flame spread rate versus the opposed flow 
temperature under different opposed flow velocity for 
74.1=τ cm. 
temperature is fixed at 313K.  
For the effect of solid fuel thickness, it is 
found that the flame spread rate decreases with 
an increase of solid fuel thickness at the same 
incoming flow velocity and temperature. This is 
because the thicker solid fuel has greater thermal 
inertial that needs more energy to rise its own 
temperature to pyrolyze that needs more time to 
form the flammable mixture and results in a 
lower flame spread rate. Figures 6a(a)-6e(a) and 
6a(c)-6e(c) are for solid fuel thickness 0.82cm 
and 1.74cm under different opposed flow 
velocities and temperatures. They also show that 
the flame spread is faster for the thinner solid 
fuel. The flame size and upstream preheated area 
are all greater in the thinner ones. The above 
trend has been confirmed by the predictions of 
Wu et al. [1] and West [3] and the experiments 
of Pan [7], Chen [8]. 
 Comparing with the simulated results of 
Wu et al. [1] in the Figures 5a and 5b, the 
predictions of present model are closer to the 
Pan’s experimental measurements [7]. It can be 
explained as follow. Figures 6a(b)-6e(b) present 
the temperature contours of gas and solid phases 
and  vector distribution under different opposed 
flow velocities and temperatures for solid fuel 
thickness is 0.82cm. Remind that the radiation 
effect is not under consideration in these cases. 
Comparing the gas phase temperature contours 
in Fig. 6a(a) and 6a(b), the non-dimensional 
maximum flame temperatures are 5.3624 and 
5.8236, respectively. The upstream preheated 
area of solid fuel is longer in the case without 
radiation effect.  It indicates that the heat loss  
from solid fuel is reduced and it gains more 
energy from the stronger flame and enhances the 
pyrolysis intensity. The downstream size of 
flame still grows in Wu’s simulation, whereas 
the present one contracts slightly over the fuel 
surface and the downstream flame temperature 
decreases. The formation time of flammable 
mixture becomes longer, resulting in a lower 
downward flame spread. However, this 
phenomenon becomes insignificantly when the 
flow temperature increases. 
 
 
(a) with radiation, t=0.82cm 
(b) no radiation, t=0.82cm 
7  
 PAPER TITLE
 
Fig. 6c. The temperature contours of gas and solid phases 
and vector distribution at st 25= , KTi 353=  and 
scmu /40=∞ . 
 
fuel thickness and a decrease of flow 
temperature. The ignition delay time with 
radiation effect takes longer than the one without 
radiation effect. Furthermore, the differences of 
the ignition delay time between with and without 
radiation effects increase when the flow 
temperature becomes higher under a fixed 
incoming flow velocity. The flame spread rate 
 
 
(c) with radiation, t=1.74cm (c) with radiation, t=1.74cm 
Fig. 6d. The temperature contours of gas and solid phases 
and vector distribution at st 25= , KTi 313=  and 
scmu /70=∞ . 
 
increases with a decrease of the incoming flow 
velocity and solid fuel thickness, and an increase 
of the flow temperature. The radiation effect in 
the lower flow velocity regime is found more 
effective. The downstream flame size still grows 
over an infinite length fuel plate, whereas the 
present one contracts over a finite length fuel 
plate. The effects of gas phase radiation and 
 
(a) with radiation, t=0.82cm (a) with radiation, t=0.82cm 
 
(b) no radiation, t=0.82cm (b) no radiation, t=0.82cm 
9  
