 1
 
 
MC3T3-E1 細胞株在 1.8GHz 微波影響下模糊近場生物響應圖譜的量測與分析 
正修科技大學資訊工程系教授 程 深 
 
中文摘要:利用模糊近場圖譜(FNP)分析檢測細胞暴露在微波 1.8GHz 下的生物效應。利用特殊設
計之天線系統，培養鼠骨母細胞並同時暴露在 1.8 GHz 的微波影響下，細胞響應則觀察細胞間隙
通訊(GJIC)，其機轉是將螢光染料轉移擴散到細胞內，其擴散速度以及擴散量受到微波干擾而造
成改變，同時，通過高斯計量測 1mm 處近磁場變化，1.8 GHz 微波能導致生物效應並表現不同的
模糊近場圖譜，證實了細胞暴露於 1.8 GHz 下會產生生物效應。 
 
Fuzzy Near Field Patterns of the Response of MC3T3-E1 Cell Line Upon the 
Microwave Exposure at 1.8GHz 
 
Abstract: Fuzzy near field pattern (FNP) is suggested to exam bio-effect of cells exposed on the 
microwave. The cell was cultured and exposed at 1.8GHz. Using dye transfer, the dye diffuses 
into cells may change the GJIC. The near fields were recorded and fuzzier by using of the probe of 
Gauss meter. At 1.8GHz microwave can cause the bio-effect is the major concern for this report. 
Different FNP confirmed the bio-effect of cells exposed at 1.8GHz. 
Keywords: GJIC, Bio-effect, Fuzzy, Near Field 
1. Introduction 
The osteoblastic cell line MC3T3-E1 is established from a C57BL/6 mouse calvaria and selected 
on the basis of high alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in the resting state. Cells basically can 
differentiate into osteoblasts and osteocytes and have been demonstrated to form calcified bone 
tissue in vitro [1]. There have been of considerable discussion concerning the response of the cell 
line responding to the RF exposure [2,3]. No clinical evidence has shown any human health effect 
and no mechanism can clearly explain every observed biological effect [3]. This report only 
describes our study of the Osteoblast cellular response to the reaction of external RF exposure at 
2.4GHz. Gap junctional intracellular communication (GJIC) within the cells can induce the 
physical signals from varying surface current [4,5] on the cells. In a cell, six connexin 43 subunits 
oligomerze in the Golgi apparatus into a connexon, called hemi channel and be transported to 
plasma membrane of the cell. Before pairing process, hemi channels are closed to avoid leakage of 
cellular contents and entry of extra-cellular materials. During the pairing of connexons and 
aggregation into plaques at the plasma membrane, connexin 43 is phosphorylated at least twice 
and connexons are attracted to those located on the adjacent cells. Two connexons join in an 
end-to-end manner to form a complete channel. The channel aggregate into large gap junction 
plaques open to connect two cells for cell-to-cell communication and is called gap junctional 
 3
other in vitro except the stem cells and cancer cells, we can observe the GJIC from the diffusion of 
fluorescence of the dye. The near-field pattern of the magnetic fluctuations created by the induced 
GJIC surface current of the osteoblast cells can thus be analyzed by fuzzy inference engine as the 
FNP to identify if the cell response is existed. Both the varied diffuse ranges of Lucifer yellow 
fluorescence expresses the cell response under the exposure of microwave and varied grey levels 
of FNP being analyzed are relate to the GJIC of cells. Conclusively, in this report, grey levels of 
FNP consist of black B, gray G and white W. Those three grey levels are used to show the cell 
response to the microwave at 1.8GHz by using of fuzzy tool box in MATLAB software. The 
calculation results being shown in FNP indicate three fuzzy rules of grey level =B as no cellular 
reaction can be detected at all to the microwave exposure, grey level =W as not for sure if the 
cellular reaction is existed and grey level =G as the cellular reaction is detected. GJIC modulation 
for the MC3T3 Osteoblast cells cultured in a novel designed culture dish being exposed 
microwave at 1.8GHz was observed to support the analysis of FNP in this study. 
 
Fuzzy Analysis 
Based upon the measurements of near magnetic field fluctuation, we adjusted the distribution of 
the fluctuations as eight different discrete values. Using If-Then type fuzzy rules converts the 
fuzzy input to the fuzzy output. Fuzzifier the input  (measurement), we make its output values to 
be only three possibilities. The first possibility is that the cell is responded to the microwave. The 
second one is that cell did not respond to the microwave. The third one is that the cells response 
can not be determined either being responded or not. Fuzzy membership functions and the rules 
are defined. We used of Matlab toolbox as the base to establish an inference engine with three 
output by using of different membership functions (trapmf) to create 9 rules to performance the 
antecedents and consequences. 
 
Cell Culture 
The osteoblast cell line in vitro was obtained from D.T. Yamaguchi, Research Service and 
Geriatrics Research, Education, and Clinical Center, VAMC, West Los Angeles, California, USA It 
was maintained in D-medium (Formula 78-5470EF, GIBCO, Grand Island, NY, USA), 
supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (GIBCO) and 50 μg/ml gentamicin (Quality 
Biological, Inc., Gaithersburg MD, USA). The cells were incubated at 37°C in a humidified 
atmosphere containing 5% CO2 and 95% air and were fed or trypsinized every two to three days. 
 
Discussion 
Experimental result relates the near magnetic field fluctuation to the GJIC within cells. A strong 
signal to noise ratio at 14Hz is depicted (not published data). It may present that the 14Hz is the 
responding frequency of the cell to the exposure of RF at 1.8GHz. Near magnetic field power 
density spectrum can show a frequency band at 14 Hz in the time interval between 0.05 seconds to 
 5
 
Figure 1. 
(a) Near-field pattern of the magnetic fluctuations without exposure of microwave at 1.8GHz (b) 
Near-field pattern of the magnetic fluctuations with exposure of microwave at 1.8GHz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 
Special cell culture involved antenna system and the intrinsic frequency distribution spectrum 
寄件人： www.bems.org 34bems@bems.org  
回覆至： "www.bems.org" <34bems@bems.org> 
 
收件人： "k0523@gcloud.csu.edu.tw" k0523@gcloud.csu.edu.tw 
   cherng@msu.edu 
日期： 2012 年 3 月 19 日上午 12:34 
主旨： Notification of acceptance to 34BEMS Brisbane 2012 
 
Dear Author: 
Thank you for submitting an abstract to the 34th Annual Meeting of the 
Bioelectromagnetics Society. This is to inform you that your abstract entitled: Fuzzy 
Near Field Patterns of the Response of MC3T3-E1 Cell Line Upon the Microwave 
Exposure at 1.8GHz has been accepted for Poster presentation. 
The full preliminary technical program will be available at www.bems.org shortly. 
IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR AUTHORS 
Please be reminded that as an oral presenter, you have been allocated 15 minutes + 3 
minutes for questions and discussion. As a poster presenter, your poster should not 
exceed 1682 x 1189 mm – which is equivalent to an 2AO size. Our poster boards are 
1.8 x 1.2 – these will be set up in horizontal format. You are reminded to bring your 
own Velcro dots. Posters can be set up on Sunday 17 June from 12 noon. 
The registration desk will open at 12 noon on Sunday 17 June. 
Please visit the 34BEMS home page for information on meeting registration, travel 
and accommodation options. Ensure that you register before the early bird deadline on 
1 May 2012. Savings of $100 AUD per registration apply. 
A reminder to members that you are able to renew your membership at www.bems.org; 
or consider joining BEMS. Full Member fee is $105 USD annually. By becoming a 
member and registering at the member rate, your first year’s membership will cost $5 
USD. Go to the Membership Application pageto check the status of your BEMS 
membership prior to registering for 34BEMS. 
We look forward to welcoming you to Brisbane Australia for the 34th Annual 
Meeting. 
Sincerely, 
Andrew Wood 
Technical Program Committee and Local Organizing Committee Co-Chair 
which is often used for cellular phone. It was reported previously that the GJIC being modulated 
by microwave exposure at 2.4GHz. Whether the microwave at 1.8GHz could also cause the 
biological effect through the analysis of the near field magnetic patterns is the major concern for 
this report. With fuzzy algorithms, four different types of interference may obstruct the cell 
responding signal being observed. Those types of interference include (1) degrading of the signal, 
(2) increasing signal bandwidth, (3) coupling of signal to the noise and (4) signals overlapping [2]. 
Since the function of the GJIC, cultured cells communicates with each other in vitro except the 
stem cells and cancer cells, we can observe the GJIC from the diffusion of fluorescence of the dye. 
The near-field pattern of the magnetic fluctuations created by the induced GJIC surface current of 
the osteoblast cells can thus be analyzed by fuzzy inference engine as the FNP to identify if the cell 
response is existed. Both the varied diffuse ranges of Lucifer yellow fluorescence expresses the 
cell response under the exposure of microwave and varied grey levels of FNP being analyzed are 
relate to the GJIC of cells. Conclusively, in this report, grey levels of FNP consist of black B, gray 
G and white W. Those three grey levels are used to show the cell response to the microwave at 
1.8GHz by using of fuzzy tool box in MATLAB software. The calculation results being shown in 
FNP indicate three fuzzy rules of grey level =B as no cellular reaction can be detected at all to the 
microwave exposure, grey level =W as not for sure if the cellular reaction is existed and grey 
level =G as the cellular reaction is detected. GJIC modulation for the MC3T3 Osteoblast cells 
cultured in a novel designed culture dish being exposed microwave at 1.8GHz was observed to 
support the analysis of FNP in this study. 
 References 
[1] Trosko JE, Chang CC. Role of stem cells and gap junctional intercellular communication in 
human carcinogensis. Radiation Research 155:175-80, 2001 
[2] Hsien-Chiao Teng, Shen Cherng. Response of MC3T3-E1 cell line to the RF exposure at 
2.4GHz. Life Science Journal. 2011;8(4):82-85 
 
Figure 2.  
(a)  FNP without  exposure of microwave (b) GJIC dye diffusion for the cells in vitro without 
exposure of  microwave (c) FNP with  exposure (d) GJIC dye diffusion for the cells in vitro being 
exposed of  microwave at 1.8GHz 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 射頻電磁波環境下人類生理響應信號模型之設計分析與應用
計畫主持人: 程深
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-230-010- 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
