 2
中文摘要： 
 
大多數有規律的運動習慣的老年人相較於不常運動者更能維持健康與體力，其增進身
體功能的效果如改善血壓、血糖、血脂、關節炎、骨質疏鬆與神經認知功能等。然而，老
年人未顧及身體機能退化問題進行運動造成體力負荷過大，甚至產生運動傷害的現象。老
年人適度且採用適合的運動的確會減少相關運動傷害，但急性運動傷害尤其是肌肉組織方
面還是經常發生於老年人運動。 
近年來無線感測網路的發展已經廣泛應用於業界與學術界，然而利用感測網路技術進
行老年運動傷害防護相關發展仍然相當稀少。本計畫預計對將透過佈建於人體身上之低功
率無線感測網路架構 (ZigBee 通訊協定) 提供多項運動生理信號 (肌電圖、血壓、心率與
血氧濃度)監控與感測，其量測之生理資訊也透過此無線網路系統傳送至後端之資料庫儲
存。由於運動防護常伴隨大量生理信號的處理，往往造成無線感測網路有資料時效性的問
題。本計畫預計採用 web 2.0 的概念，其技術主要結合非同步 Java 描述語言、可延伸性標
示語言、可縮放向量圖形與資料庫，具有跨平台、不受空間限制與高效能等優點。 
本計畫將以無線感測網路進行老年人運動傷害之防護，其所需研究範疇不單是一般的
人口統計、社工、穿戴式感測與行動科技領域，也需要復健醫學領域介入。基於上述之需
求，建構老年人運動照護之感測網路為當務之急，期能對老年人面臨突發狀況、日常生活、
醫療照護、休閒能提供快速、適地、個人化的幫助。 
 
關鍵字：老年人運動傷害；無線感測網路；肌電圖 
 4
1. 前言： 
老年學（Gereology）與老年醫學（Geriatric），隨地球上年老人口加多而漸被各相關
學科及醫學界所重視。「老吾老以及人之老」，就像自己家中老奶奶一樣，有如一部機器
使用年限久遠而有各種退行性病變隨附著，其中包含許多不可逆退行性病變為不可能治癒
損害（impairment），像其他生物一樣，人類器官上全體衰變（general deterioation）是生理
過程中不可避免的，亦即各個器官損害所造成功能性障礙（handicap），如何回復發揮個體
最大潛能減少失能（disability）的可能性。 
人的肌力在四十五歲以後就逐漸減弱，尤其爆發力下降得更快，根據統計六十五歲～
八十歲之間的健康老人，平均每年肌力下降 1～2%，爆發力下降 3～4%。在傳統的觀念裡，
認為人愈老愈不適合運動，但近年來，許多醫學文獻對老年人運動都給予肯定與支持。適
度的運動可以促進血液循環，增進身體機能，預防疾病發生，使老年人能應付日常生活中
的工作，而不覺得自己逐漸衰老，進而達到健康與快活的人生。常言道：活動就是活著就
要動。肌力的可塑性是終生都存在的，只要運動，即使因長久臥床而變得無力的肌肉都可
回復或改善。 
一般而言，老年人應選擇自己喜歡而可終生維持的低衝擊性運動項目，但運動必須持
續一段時間才可看出效果，所以要有恆心。運動的強度及時間要依個人的體能慢慢地增加，
做到「有點累但又不致於太累」的程度，不可做到「喘得說不出話來」的地步，甚至產生
運動傷害。運動傷害是一種常見的過動性傷害，起因大致上可分為兩大類。 
(1) 因錯誤的運動姿勢或運動中的碰撞導致韌帶扭傷與關節受傷。 
(2) 過量的運動導致於肌肉進入疲乏狀態，降低了肌肉本應提供的彈簧般的緩衝功能，結
果是關節與韌帶在過度伸展的同時已經無法得到肌肉即時等縮(isotonic)作用保護關節與韌
帶的過度延展傷害。肌肉如同關節的盔甲，有強壯的肌肉，可提供強大的運動能力以及關
節保護能力，有助於免於運動傷害的發生。一般而論，因肌肉產生疲乏狀態而導致的運動
傷害常見於下列幾種情形中: 
(1) 熱身不足 
進行運動之前沒有足夠的熱身準備提升肌肉反應(recruitment)的速度，讓肌肉進入可以
產生瞬間強大動能的狀態。熱身不足伴隨的常是肌肉沒法在關節韌帶過度延展的同時提
供足夠的反向內收力量(adduction torque)，使得關節與韌帶因為過度且不正常的延展而
 6
仍然未並克服[2][3]。 
 
Fig. 2.  Block Diagram of Telemetered Sensors for Dynamic Activity Monitoring[2][3] 
 
在2003年, Jovanov延續其之前的研究發表利用藍芽技術來進行無線化個人區域網路進
行多種生理信號同時傳輸的系統概念 (Fig. 3.)，但在其研究內容中卻提到因藍芽模組耗電
量高的問題，實務上又回到使用射頻模組，並只有進行心容積變化的量測[4]。 
 
Fig. 3. Wireless body area network of intelligent sensors with BT in the telemedical environment 
[4] 
 
2004年，Vince Stanford 整理了生醫信號應用無線科技的相關資料，並講述無線生醫的
 8
地心引力肌群不足以支撐頭，頸和軀幹，加上背肌、脊椎關節退化而有老態姿勢、彎腰駝
背的情形，進而肺臟和橫膈膜活動減少，降低了肺活動、氧氣交換，交替惡性循環使體能
及活動度更加惡化，使外觀上比實際年齡更年老。但在體能下降與關節肌肉退化的情況之
下，運動傷害特別容易在老年人的身上出現。且由於身體修復能力較年輕人為低的緣故，
老年人的運動傷害需要花較年輕人數倍的時間來進行治療與復健。故在老年人從事運動以
維持體能與肌肉力量的同時，運動傷害防護的作業更須加倍小心謹慎的進行。 
綜觀來說，運動傷害普遍出現於各年齡層。而運動傷害的發生輕者影響日常生活，重者
會造成工作上的困擾，甚至在職場上引發其他職業傷害。而對運動員來說，大大小小的運
動傷害正是其運動生命的殺手。在各醫療院所的復健科中，運動傷害的病人亦為數不少。
因而本研究認為在運動強身健體的同時，提供一可依賴的運動防護機制系統確有其必要性
及重要性。 
在參考相關文獻後，本研究團隊從復健醫學實務的需要來進行審慎評估。認為將無線
通信技術引用至老年復健醫學與運動醫學領域中，配合預計建立的可靠運動傷害肌電圖模
型，在可同時監測多組運動生理參數之系統的協助下，將可提供運動醫學及復健醫學科別
一可靠且方便之量測方案。如系統架構中亦有無線生理信號之管理機制，更可大幅削減物
理治療師與防護員的人力支出。由於市面上並無可適合使用於本計劃書需要使用的無線生
醫感測系統，本研究團隊計劃預計設計即時性之人體生理資訊、姿勢與動作辨識的系統，
做為運動或復健中的輔助工具。使用者將在身上穿戴感測器並量測身體各項生理訊息，其
資訊透過無線感測網路方式送給後端電腦，經過電腦分析資訊實現能提供可靠運動傷害防
護機制的無線化系統。 
本計畫無線化的目的在於去除線材，以不影響電極配戴者活動為目標。同時，本研究
利用織品電極取代傳統電極以減少傳統電極造成皮膚過敏發炎等症狀，適合長時間穿戴，
進而結合遠距老人居家照護系統，提供更加完善遠距復健平台。當門診病患在無專業復健
人員協助的環境中自力進行復健動作時，可以經由在使用者身上掛載的無線裝置，發送生
理資訊由主控端裝置接收，爾後主控端可進行資料儲存與連結至醫療院所遠端網路伺服器
之動作；再將資料即時上傳至遠端醫療院所伺服器，便可顯示在遠距系統螢幕上讓專業醫
療復健人員讀取觀看。而將無線感測器與花蓮慈濟醫院進行研發之遠距復健影像系統結
合，在系統可以提供平面影像與量測數據兩種資料類型的同時，可預見的是對使用者在居
 10
無線節點主要包含了微處理器以及天線模組，本系統所使用的微處理器為 TI 的
MSP430F1611，天線模組為 UBEC 的 UZ2400。由於人類在活動時身體變化頻率並不高，
因此感測資料的取樣頻率定為 20Hz，所以當每 50ms，微處理器將透過類比數位轉換器
(Analog to Digital Converter, ADC) 以及一般用途輸出入腳位 (General Purpose I/O, GPIO)取
得三軸加速度計以及開關感測器的資訊，並在整合成一個資料封包後透過天線模組發送出
去，如 Fig. 7 所示。 
 
Fig. 6. 身體姿態量測之感測點分佈 
 
Fig. 7. 無線感測器節點系統方塊圖 
4.2. 三軸加速度計 
三軸加速度計主要是被用來偵測三維方向 X 軸、Y 軸和 Z 軸的加速度值，本系統所使用的
加速度計為 Analog Device 公司出產的 ADXL330。三軸之加速度會以電壓輸出的方式形式，
經 ADC 轉換後會在 0 到 255 之間的數值範圍內呈現，以 X 軸的放置角度為例，在加速度
計為靜止的情況當 X 軸放置方向與重力 g 相同時，會輸出約 150 左右的數值代表加速度與
重力相等，當放置方向與重力相反時，會輸出約 100 左右的數值代表加速度與負重力相等，
而當放置方向與重力垂直時，會輸出約 125 左右的數值代表無加速度。因此我們可知道加
速度計為靜止的時候，輸出值與擺放的角度會有相對應的關係。當加速度計的輸出值在 100
到 150 之間時我們能將其轉換成 0 度到 180 度的角度θ的形式，如公式(1)所示。令 XRaw
為目前加速度計輸出值，Xg 為擺放方向與重力方向相同時的輸出值而 Xo 為擺放方向與重
力方向垂直時的輸出值。 
 12
 
Fig. 10. (A) 織布型式電極與標準電極之結構圖。(B) 織布型式電極等效電路模型。 
從等效模型我們可以得知其等效阻抗 ZTextrode：                           (2) 
從公式(2)瞭解，織品電極即擁有低通濾波器之特性。如果將等效電容 C 變化則會改變其截
止頻率的大小。由基礎電學得知，電容 C 的定義為： 
 
                                              (3) 
公式(3)表示電容大小與電極板面積(S)成正比以及與電極板的間距(d)成反比。從其實驗得知
如果將織品電極的面積加大則截止頻率會往高頻移動且輸出訊號較佳。相反地，如果將電
極的面積變小則會使截止頻往低頻移動而輸出訊號也相對衰減。此外，本計畫所採用織布
型式電極已無絕緣層，使導電織品直接碰觸測試著的皮膚，希望能夠藉此可以提高電極取
樣心電信號的品質。 
 
4.4. 溼度感測器 
除了心電信號與人體溫度這兩種生理訊號的參數外，我們另外加上一個汗濕的感測
器，希望可以藉由汗濕感測器來瞭解我們目前身體排汗的狀況。一般的濕度感測器用來感
應環境的水分子之程度，因此其敏感性很高不適合用來偵測身體汗濕。因此本計畫利用綿
布的吸水程度辨識人體排汗的多寡。 
在 Fig. 11 為汗溼感測器的結構，A 表示為該吸水布的層數，B 為兩個導線的寬度，C 為
吸水布的寬度，D 為吸水布的長度。 
 
Fig. 11. 汗濕感測器示意圖 
我們利用兩條可導電織線將其織在吸水布上，當吸水布將水佈滿兩導線之間時，則導線
(A) (B) 
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.12. 動作辨識概念圖 
 
首先，我們透過數學的方式來計算緩衝器輸入動作與動作樣本庫內動作的相似度
(Similarity Rate)。如公式(10)所示，其中令緩衝器中的輸入動作為 A 序列，而動作樣本為 B
序列，序列的長度為 N。 
                                                                   (10) 
 
我們訂定了門檻值(Threshold)作為兩個動作是否為相同動作的依據。當兩個動作的相似度
計算結果高於門檻值的時候，我們會認定這兩個動作是相同的，反之則為不相同。當動作
樣本庫同時有多個不同動作的樣本時，系統會將緩衝器的輸入動作與樣本庫的每個動作依
序進行比對，並分別計算其相似度。我們會先選出其中相似度最高的一組，之後再透過門
檻值評估這兩個動作是否相同。門檻值的制定由經驗法則統計求得。 
 
4.6. 無線傳輸架構 
在無線感測網路架構中，由於資訊都是透過使用者身上的無線節點發送出去，所以在
使用者較多的情況下空氣中難免會發生資訊碰撞或是堵塞等問題，為了確保每一個使用者
的資訊都能平均的被後端所接收，我們使用 Token Ring 的機制來協調節點之間資料傳送的
工作。在本系統中，協調者(Coordinator)會以輪詢(Polling)的方式將 token 依序送給網路中
每一個使用者，同一時間點只會有一個使用者收到 token，其收到 token 之順序依照使用者
加入網路的順序而定；網路中的使用者須等待收到 token 後才能發送資訊，一旦使用者收
到協調者所送來的 token 訊息便會將資訊連同 token 傳回協調者，協調者在收到資料後會繼
續將資料往透過 RS-232 傳送至電腦，並將 token 送給下一個使用者；當網路中的最後一個
使用者將資料送出後，token 會回到第一個使用者上如此循環下去。為了能延長傳輸距離本
系統也同時支援路由器(Router)的架構，而協調者分配網路中資訊傳遞順序的工作將改由路
由器執行，如 Fig. 13 所示。 
 16
5. 結果與討論： 
5.1 系統實作 
在系統實作上，前端部分包含了自行開發的無線節點系統以及感測裝置(Fig. 14)，左方
的裝置為穿戴在使用者身上的無線節點，用來接收感測器的輸出資料並將其傳送出去；中
間的裝置為 Router 用來作為中繼節點並將接收到的資料傳給 Coordinator，右方的裝置為
Coordinator 透過 RS-232 介面與電腦連接。在感測器的部份，Fig. 15 中左方為加速度計感
測器，右邊的則是裝於衣服上的開關感測器。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 14. 生理信號無線感測節點實體圖         Fig. 15. 動作姿態感測器實體圖 
 
後端系統在 PC 平台上開發，應用程式使用微軟公司的 Visual Basic 6.0 以及即時 3D 互
動軟體 EON 開發，使用者介面如 Fig. 16 所示。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 16. 使用者介面 
5.2. 姿勢及動作辨識測試 
針對系統對人體姿勢辨識能力的測試，在 Fig. 17 中我們實際執行了 9 種不同姿勢讓系
統來辨識，其結果將透過電腦的圖型使用者介面以 3D 動畫的方式呈現出來，如 Fig. 18 所
示。 
 
 
 
 
 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 20. 體表溫度從 45、40、35、28 及 20 ℃時織布電極量測之心電圖信號變化 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(A) (B) 
(C) (D) 
(E) 
(A) (B) 
(C) 
(D) 
(E) 
 20
運動後 200 秒、(E)運動後 240 秒、(F)運動後 240 秒、(G)運動後 300 秒與(H)運動後 400 秒
之心電圖變化。 
 
大約在 100 秒後其訊號開始衰減，而心電訊號的 R 波也衰減得極小。再從頻率域下觀
察得知，40 Hz 下的能量與之前的訊號相比其能量衰退極大。這種衰退的狀況維到至 240 秒 
~ 300 秒之間，直到 300 秒後訊號才恢復像 100 秒內時的訊號狀況。此實驗可以瞭解到汗
水多寡會大幅影響心電訊號的完整性，但最後在電極上平均的佈滿水份後就會再度恢復信
號的完整。從實驗推論：由於汗水在未佈滿體表的狀況下，心電訊號受到之影響較小，等
到一段時間汗水份量增加卻以非平均的方式分佈在織品電極上，導致電極的阻抗特性不同
造成阻抗匹配產生問題，使得心電訊號無法被取樣完整，最後當汗水完全平均佈滿在整個
織品電極後，此時電極上的阻抗也獲得控制而取樣的心電訊號不管在時域或頻域下也恢復
至完整。 
 
5.5. 無線感測網路效能測試 
在無線網路效能的部份，我們測試了系統的最大有效傳輸距離，結果顯示在以節點為
圓心的情況下，傳輸距離在半徑 18 公尺內的封包接收正確率能達到 100%，當距離超過 18
公尺時資料的正確率變會慢慢下降，如 Fig. 23 所示。 
而在資料接收的即時性方面，我們分別測試加入 Router 以及移除 Router 等兩種架構。
在無 Router 的架構下，使用者人數在 8 人以下時，都能達到我們所訂定每秒 20 封包接收
量的目標，當人數超過 8 個時，封包的接收量便會下降；而在有 Router 的架構下，使用者
人數在 7 人以下時都能達到預定的封包接收量，如 Fig. 24。所以我們可以知道移除 Router
雖然會縮減系統的整體無線傳輸距離，但在多人使用的情況下卻能精簡資料傳遞的路徑，
減少傳輸時的封包延遲問題。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 23. 節點最大傳輸距離                   Fig. 24. 系統最大使用人數 
 
6. 結論： 
本計畫中，我們提出了一套具即時性的生理資訊傳送與人體姿勢及動作辨識系統做為
運動及復健時的輔助工具，目的是為了提供使用者一個輕鬆，便利的運動及復健平台。在
 22
計畫成果自評： 
1. 本計畫已經完成該系統建置，目前正在花蓮慈濟醫院帕金森氏症研究中心進行實測。 
2. 該計畫之研究成果已部分發表於 Expert Systems with Applications 
   請詳見附件資料 
 
 
 
。 
3. 已通過國內新型專利申請通過(無線醫療傳輸診斷裝置,  
中華民國 P 612006)，目前正在積極申請美國、日本與歐洲國家。 
 

  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 3 
1. Introduction 
Most of the current methods used for evaluating Parkinson’s disease (PD) rely heavily 
on human expertise, e.g., the use of the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) 
(Martin et al., 2004). UPDRS is a rating tool that follows the longitudinal course of PD. It 
is composed of 5 separate categories including mentation, behavior, mood, activities of 
daily living and motor examinations, all evaluated by interview. Some sections require 
multiple grades assigned to each extremity.  
The analysis of gait characteristics, as documented by Knutsson (Knutsson 1972), 
shows that PD patients exhibit large gait variability. Compared with normal people, PD 
patients’ walking speed is slower, duration of gait cycle is longer, stride length is shorter, 
and amplitude of range of movement of joints is decreased. These specific gait patterns (e.g. 
festinating gait, freezing gait) are widely accepted as a prominent feature of PD (McDowell, 
1971). However, since posture and gait movement can vary from person to person, the 
evaluation of Parkinsonian gait tends to be subjective and depends greatly on the 
experience and judgment of the clinician (Stern, 1983; Blin, Ferrandez & Serratrice, 1990; 
Shan et al., 2001; Melnick, Radtka & Piper, 2002; Vokaer, Azar & Beyl, 2003, Salarian et 
al., 2004; Sofuwa et al., 2005; Lubik et al., 2006).  
In addition to evidence-based practice, therapists also use objective, quantitative 
methods to improve diagnosis of Parkinsonian gait. As a result, engineering-oriented 
machine learning-based methods have attracted more and more attention in this field 
(Makikawa & Iizumi, 1995; Veltink et al., 1996; Fahrenberg et al., 1997; Sekine et al., 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 5 
and y are the original and the dimensionality-reduced image vectors, respectively, and W is 
a linear projection matrix such that y becomes discriminative so as to aid separation of 
different classes of image sequences.  
Many types of optimization criteria can be used to determine an appropriate W, such 
as maximizing the variance, non-Gaussianity for independancy, negentropy, or the ratio of 
between- and within-class variations (Murase & Sakai, 1996; Liu & Wechsler, 1998; 
Hyvarinen et al., 2001). Among them, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is well-known 
and widely used (Polat & Güne, 2007). PCA focuses on computing eigenvectors that 
account for the largest variance of the data selected, but these directions do not necessarily 
provide the best separation of gait classes. On the other hand, the ratio of between- and 
within-class variations (Fisher's linear discriminant criterion) appears to be an especially 
valid index since it allows simultaneous balancing between the maximization and 
minimization of the between- and within-class variations. Based on Fisher's linear 
discriminant criterion, linear discriminant analysis (LDA) then produces a linear projection 
matrix, which greatly enhances classification.  
The aim of this paper is to discriminate PD patients from normal subjects using a 
vision-based gait analysis approach. The scheme utilizes the holistic image of subjects, and 
extracts and reduces the feature space by using PCA and LDA. The meaning of the 
obtained LDA transformation matrix (reduced to a vector in our case) is not only treated as 
a black box but is also used to describe the posture information of PD patients in a 
numerical way.  
 
 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 7 
[ ]
.
,,1
ij
ij
T
kij
Px
xppy
=
= 
                               
(3) 
where yij is also named the PCA coefficients in this paper. 
2.2 Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) 
Suppose that i represents the set of the vectors },,,{ 21 iiNii yyy  . The mean vector 
of i is given by 

=
=
iN
j
ij
i
i N 1
.
1 ymy                                   (4) 
Hence, the mean vector of the entire set },,,{ 21 c=  is given by  
.
1
1

=
=
c
i
ii
T
N
N yy
mm                                 (5) 
The within-class matrix Sw and the between-class matrix Sb of the entire set of vectors 
can be calculated by 

= =
−−=
c
i
N
j
T
iijiij
T
i
N 1 1
))((1 yyw mxmxS                         (6) 
and 

=
−−=
c
i
T
iii
T
N
N 1
.))((1 yyb mmmmS                          (7) 
Maximizing the between-class variance and minimizing the within-class variance 
simultaneously is equivalent to maximizing 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 9 
parts: 1) preprocessing, 2) training and 3) recognition. In this study, we first captured 
several videos of both normal subjects and patients with PD. We then processed the images 
from the videos to characterize the subjects. All subjects were encoded as vectors such that 
we could use PCA and LDA to extract features. An MDC was then used as the classifier. 
The flow chart of the proposed system is shown in Fig. 1. 
 
3.1. Environment set-up, image acquisition and subject detection 
A structured environment—a corridor with a deep blue curtain—was utilized and the 
room was well illuminated as shown in Fig. 2. Image acquisition equipment, including a 
CCD camera connected to a PC or a handy DV, was also used.  
There are many background models proposed (Haritaoglu, Harwood & Davis (2000)), 
to help extract clear foreground objects. For simplicity, the background model was 
constructed by taking a photograph of the environment beforehand. Both normal subjects 
and PD patients were asked to wear light-colored clothing to achieve high color contrast 
between the background and their profiles. Each subject was instructed to walk from the 
left to the right end (and then walk back if needed). Afterwards, the subjects’ image 
sequences were captured, as illustrated in Fig. 3.  
The difference between the background and each of the image frames was then 
computed. The absolute value of the difference was then calculated such that every pixel of 
the input image was judged to belong to the foreground object pixel if the corresponding 
absolute value exceeded a threshold. This threshold depended on the color contrast of the 
curtain and the clothing of the subjects and the illumination condition. As a result, we 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 11 
3.3.1. PCA coefficient extraction 
The silhouette of a subject in an image frame was originally represented as a binary 
matrix. Since this matrix, in general, contains redundancy, we extracted efficient features 
by first using PCA. To this end, we reshaped each of the obtained silhouettes as a vector 
form such that we could collect all the silhouettes to perform PCA.   
The mean vector and covariance matrix of the silhouette vectors can be computed 
using (1) and (2). Consequently, the features are obtained by evaluating the eigenvalues and 
the associated eigenvectors through PCA. We rearranged the resultant eigenvectors by 
ordering their associated eigenvalues from large to small. The largest eigenvectors were 
selected such that their associated eigenvalues accumulated a certain degree of energy, 
aproximately 90% of the total energy in this study. By (3), each of the original silhouette 
vectors were thus approximated using a new vector on the space generated by the selected 
partial eigenvectors so as to reduce the dimensionality of silhouette vectors. 
3.3.2. LDA coefficient extraction 
Although PCA can reduce the dimensionality of silhouette vectors, it is not used 
aiming for classification. As a result, further processing is needed to improve the 
recognition capability of the proposed system. In this study, we focus on two categories of 
subjects: normal people and patients with Parkinson’s disease. The means of the silhouette 
vectors of each category and of the entire set of vectors were computed by (4) and (5), 
respectively. After evaluating the LDA transformation matrix, each silhouette vector in the 
partial eigenspace was mapped to a new vector on the canonical space by (9). 
  
 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 13 
To further discriminate among each class of silhouette vector, the obtained PCA 
coefficients of the silhouette vectors were processed using LDA. First, the mean vectors of 
each class and of the entire set of the vectors on partial eigenspace were computed. Then, 
maximization of the ratio of between-class variance and within-class variance was carried 
out. Accordingly, the ratios before and after LDA were 0.0446 and 16.0000, respectively. It 
is clear that LDA raised the ratio. Finally, the LDA coefficients of the silhouette vectors 
were calculated.  
To visualize the different features obtained by PCA and LDA, the distributions of the 
first two components (for illustration purposes) of PCA and only one LDA coefficient of 
silhouette vectors of normal and PD subjects are plotted in Figs. 8 and 9, respectively. In 
the figures, the red “O” stands for the normal subjects and the green “” for PD patients.  
We observed that the PCA coefficients of different groups of silhouette vectors had 
large overlaps for both vertical and horizontal axes. On the other hand, the LDA 
coefficients of different groups of silhouette classes clearly separated from one another. 
Note that, although we illustrated the scatter plots by using only two and one coefficients 
for PCA and LDA, respectively, we adopted 280 and one coefficients for PCA and LDA, 
respectively, during the classification of normal people and PD patients. Since the LDA 
coefficients’ dimensionality is only one, the counting index is then used as the horizontal 
axis of Fig. 9 to show the scatter plot.  
For further insight, we investigated the LDA projection matrix carefully (in this study, 
it reduced to a vector). We computed the absolute values of this vector and shifted and 
scaled the obtained projection vector elements to fall in the range from 0 to 255. We 
reshaped this vector to match the shape of captured images. Therefore, we could visualize 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 15 
available. In this paper, we propose an assistance system using LDA to detect PD gait 
patterns. The proposed system uses the image sequences of human silhouettes during 
walking and extracts the intrinsic features by LDA. The proposed system can identify 
normal people and PD patients by their gaits with high reliability and appears a promising 
aid in the diagnosis of the Parkinson’s disease.  
 
Acknowledgements 
We extend our sincere gratitude to Tzong-Jer Li for his technologic supporting to this paper. 
We are also very grateful to the subjects with PD who generously gave their time to assist 
with this research. This research was funded by Grant No. 96-2622-E-009-011-CC3 from 
the National Science Council of the Republic of China in Taiwan. 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 17 
Horstink, M. et al. (2006). Review of the therapeutic management of Parkinson's disease. 
Report of a joint task force of the European Federation of Neurological Societies 
(EFNS) and the Movement Disorder Society-European Section (MDS-ES). Part II: late 
(complicated) Parkinson's disease. European Journal of Neurology, 13(11), 1186–1202. 
Huang, P.S., Harris, C.J., & Nixon, M.S. (1999). Recognizing humans by gait via 
parametric canonical space. Artificial Intelligence in Engineering, 13(4), 359–366. 
Huang, P.S., Harris, C.J. & Nixon, M.S. (1999). Human gait recognition in canonical space 
using temporal templates. Proceedings of IEEE Vision, Image, and Signal Processing, 
146(2), 93−100.  
Hyvarinen, A., et al. (2001). Independent component analysis. New York: Wiley. 
Jolliffe, I.T. (2002). Principal component analysis, 2nd ed. New York: Springer-Verlag. 
Kleiner-Fisman G.. et al. (2006). Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation: summary and 
meta-analysis of outcomes. Movement Disorders, 21(14), 290–304. 
Knutsson, E. (1972). An analysis of Parkinsonian gait. Brain, 95(3), 475–486. 
Little, J.J., & Boyd, J.E. (1998). Recognizing people by their gait: The shape of motion. 
Videre, International Journal of Computer Vision, 1(2), 83–105. 
Liu, C., & Wechsler, H. (1998). Enhanced Fisher linear discriminant model for face 
recognition. Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Pattern Recognition 
(pp. 1368–1372). Brisbane, Australia. 
Lubik, S., et al. (2006). Gait analysis in patients with advanced Parkinson disease: different 
or additive effects on gait induced by levodopa and chronic STN stimulation. Journal of 
Neural Transmission, 113(2), 163–173.  
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 19 
188−196. 
Sofuwa, O., et al. (2005). Quantitative gait analysis in Parkinson's disease: comparison with 
a healthy control group. Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 86(5), 
1007–1013. 
Stern, G. M., et al. (1983). Quantitative assessments of gait and mobility in Parkinson's 
disease. Journal of Neural Transmission Supplementum, 19, 201–214. 
Veltink, P.H. et al. (1996). Detection of static and dynamic activities using uniaxial 
accelerometers, IEEE Transactions on Rehabilitation Engineering, 4(4), 375–385.  
Vokaer, M., Azar, N.A., & Beyl, D.Z. (2003). Effects of levodopa on upper limb mobility 
and gait in Parkinson's disease. Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery, and Psychiatry, 
74(9), 1304–1307. 
Yam, C.Y., Nixon, M.S., & Carter, J. N. (2002). Gait recognition by walking and running: 
A model-based approach. Proceedings of 5th Asian Conference on Computer Vision 
(pp. 1–6). Melbourne, Australia. 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 21 
Table 1 
The recorded video sequences 
Subject Number Status Length(min) Sampling Rate (frame/s) 
1 Normal 3 15 
2 Normal 2 15 
3 Normal 2 15 
4 Normal 3 15 
5 Normal 3 15 
6 Normal 3 15 
7 Normal 3 15 
8 PD 3 15 
9 PD 2 15 
10 PD 2 15 
11 PD 3 15 
12 PD 3 15 
13 PD 2 15 
14 PD 2 15 
 
 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
 23 
 
Table 3 
Confusion matrix of PCA-MDC  
 
 
Normal PD 
Normal 518  109    
PD 240  662    
 
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
Figure 1
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
Figure 3
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
Figure 5
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
Figure 7
  
 
ACCEPTED MANUSCRIPT 
 
Figure 9
