 2
一、 前言(含文獻探討) 
In recent years Ionic polymer-metal composites (IPMCs) have been broadly studied as biomimic 
transducers because of their promising biomechanical and biomimetic applications [1]. IPMC materials 
exhibit large dynamic deformation under time-varying electric fields and show great potential as soft robotic 
actuators, artificial muscles and dynamic sensors. Conventionally three major fabrication steps involved in 
IPMC preparation processes: the ionic polymer formation, initial compositing process and surface electroding 
process. After these processes finished, the individual IPMC devices are diced according to designed shapes 
from the large sheet with sandwiched metal/ionomer/metal structure [2]. Therefore, an IPMC transducer is 
composed of a thin backbone ionomer that is chemically plated on both front and back surfaces with noble 
metal to act as a pair of electrodes. The resulting metal/ionomer/metal sandwich is then treated with an 
appropriate amount of cations to balance the negative charges of the anions bonded to the backbone polymer 
[3]. The response of an IPMC transducer depends on the nature of the backbone polymer, the structure of the 
electrodes, the ions and the level of hydration [4]. Figure 1 illustrates the underlying principle of IPMC 
transduction [5]. Varying the external field modulates the deformation. IPMCs depend strongly on water 
content (hydration) of the ionomer for ionic mobility and effective actuation. IPMCs therefore work best in 
humid environments or when properly encapsulated. For instance, considerable performance improvement of 
an IPMC actuator by coating with parylene thin film is reported [6]. As for the applications of IPMC 
transducers, we recently report to use ionic polymer material and micromachining technology to make 
arbitrary shaped mIPMC transducers [7]. Through the innovative fabrication concept, the micro feature sized 
devices can be accurately shaped without knife cutting or laser burning. The fabricated mIPMC transducer 
also demonstrates the characteristics of its tiny accurately motion controllability for surgical applications. 
Besides that, most present IPMC research focuses on manufacturing planar transducers using purchased ionic 
polymer sheet with front and back chemical plating of noble metal to act as an electrode pair. The motion of 
such fabricated devices during driving is only along a straight line perpendicular to the electrode surface.  
 
二、 研究目的 
In this study we use a state-of-the-art fabrication process to make a 3D 4-electrode IPMC tranducer 
which encloses a section of optical fiber for control of the direction of the optical fiber. This device can be 
 4
photoresist is sprayed onto the device as selective protection during the metal deposition of the next step. The PDMS 
mask is removed after the photoresist solidifies (Fig. 5(left)) [3]. Chemical processing is executed to plate platinum 
electrodes on the four long sides of the cuboid device. We then immerse the solidified Nafion device with patterned 
photoresist into the salt solution, Pt(NH3)4HCl, to allow platinum-containing positive ions to diffuse through via the 
ion-exchange process. After that, the reducing agent is introduced into the salt solution to metallize the processed ionic 
polymer. The two fiber-containing ends are free of plating due to the photoresist protection. Subsequently, the processed 
device is treated with sodium hydroxide solution to perform both ion-exchange processing and photoresist removal [2]. 
Therefore, a 7mm x 2mm x 1mm 3D 4-electrode IPMC transducer with enclosed optical fiber (Fig. 3(e), Fig. 5(right)) is 
complete. 
Nafion solution
Optical fiber
1. Fabricate a parylene thin-wall
cuboid mold and punch two holes 
for inserting optical fibers
2. Insert & pre-stress a fiber, then 
pipette Nafion solution.  After solidified, 
remove the parylene mold.
3. Use 60µm-thick PDMS shadow 
mask to cover the designed electrode 
region, and spray photoresist to other 
exposed region.
4. Immerse the fabricated devices into 
chemical solution and adding reductant
to do the electroding process.
5. Immerse the processed device into 
NaOH solution to do ion exchange & 
remove the coated photoresist..
 
Figure 3: Fabrication process for 3-dimensional 4-electrode IPMC actuator. 
 
Figure 4: Photos of fabricated solidified Nafion structure enclosing an optical fiber (Left: top view; Right: 
side view). 
 6
4 volts exist for transducer motion, probably because the inserted optical fiber increases the transducer 
stiffness, which causes certain amount of electrical power required to bend the device. The transducer also 
displays a nonlinear relationship between maximum displacement and actuation frequency, with lower 
operating frequencies resulting in larger displacement. 
Finally, we observe that the moving angle of the device. The angle is defined as the arctangent of the 
displacement in the y direction divided by the displacement in the x direction (Fig. 9). During the testing 
top-left and bottom-right electrodes are connected together, respectively. Then the driving signal is applied to 
the top-right electrode pair. The result shows the moving angle almost keeps a constant under different 
applied voltages and operating frequencies. 
 
Figure 7: Displacement vs. applied voltage (0.1Hz). Left: signal applied to top-bottom electrodes. Right: 
signal applied to both side-electrode pair (Ref. Fig. 6(a)). 
 
 
Figure 8: Frequency response (sinusoid wave) of the transducer. Signals applied to electrodes are the same 
as Fig. 7.  
 
 8
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
;  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ;撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
附件二 
 10
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：98 年 11 月 2 日 
一、參加會議經過 
IEEE Sensors 2009 conference 在紐西蘭的基督城舉行，會議的時間為十月二十五至十
月二十八日，由於當時未有台灣直航基督城的飛機，故透過轉機經香港先到紐西蘭
北島的奧克蘭再轉機到南島的基督城，路程上約花上二十小時左右的時間。下機後，
前往市中心的會議中心(會議地點)報到(25 日，約晚上六點)，拿取此次會議的相關資
料。此次第八屆的 IEEE 國際感測器會議，從世界各地而來的學術界的參與人員超過
五百人，頗具規模，主辦單位對會議的場地及議程規劃亦頗具用心，稱得上為一次
計畫編號 NSC － 98 － 2221 － 194 － 054 － 
計畫名稱 具自我聚焦超音波陣列之 micro-IPMC 致動器研發(I) 
出國人員
姓名 馮國華 
服務機構
及職稱 國立中正大學機械工程系副教授 
會議時間 
98 年 10 月 25 日
至 98 年 10 月 28
日 
會議地點 紐西蘭基督城 
會議名稱 
(中文)2009 年國際電機電子工程師學會感測器會議 
(英文)IEEE sensors 2009 conference 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)結構增強式具寬頻和靈敏度的微製程音洩感測器研發 
(英文)DEVELOPMENT OF STRUCTURE ENHANCED MICROMACHINED ACOUSTIC 
EMISSION SENSORS WITH WIDE-BANDWIDTH AND IMPROVED SENSITIVITY 
附件四 
 12
國際交流。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文的 CD，參與會議的研究人員與參展廠商的名冊、未來一年度相關領域
的會議資料。 
 
 
 2
過此會議的交流，個人覺得增加不少見聞。 
 
二、與會心得 
此次感測器會議涵蓋許多領域的研究學者參與，研究所發表的領域包括光學、無線
傳輸、材料、製程、化學、機械、物理等方面，聆聽完他們的報告或是仔細看過他的海
報後，可了解目前國際在感測器研究的發展趨勢。個人覺得大會在主題的安排上，特別
著墨於環境監測和感測器的重要性，說明了由於近年來的全球暖化造成氣候、環境變遷
的影響，感測器的應用及發展上可為此提供貢獻。在許多的研究報告中，有一篇令我感
到印象深刻。這是由Massey 大學 A.R. Mohd Syaifudin 等人所發表的 A Novel Planar 
Interdigital Sensor for Environmental Monitoring,本篇主要的特色為利用紐西蘭
當地的重要經濟產業為研究核心，像農漁業，希望透過所研發的感測器偵測海產受污染
的問題，解決民眾在食方面的問題。本次會議本團隊所發表的研究為題目為DEVELOPMENT 
OF STRUCTURE ENHANCED MICROMACHINED ACOUSTIC EMISSION SENSORS WITH 
WIDE-BANDWIDTH AND IMPROVED SENSITIVITY，主要是研發一種新型機械式的音洩感測
器，可用於機械加工時的監測，與機台長期使用所造成的老化問題作預診。發表型式為
海報，發表時段亦受到不少學者們的關心與詢問研究重點。 
 
三、建議 
參與本次會議受到國科會補助，使個人有與國際研究互動的機會，獲益良多。
建議貴會未來亦能儘量提供補助相關經費補助，讓本研究團隊的師生均有機會參與
國際交流。 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
