the model was applied to simulated industrial cases 
to validate its usefulness and efficiency. 
Sensitivity analysis was also made to identify the 
key factors, which could significantly affect the 
operating cost of the adaptive CCC charts. 
英文關鍵詞： cumulative count of conforming chart, variable 
sampling interval and control limits, economic model, 
high-yield process 
 
一、前言 
The p  chart has been widely used in industry to monitor the fraction 
nonconforming (the ratio of nonconforming units in a population to the total number 
of units in that population). However, for the high-yield process with almost 
zero-defects it is well-known that the p chart is not suitable due to its very low 
fraction nonconforming [1-2]. 
Recently, the development of the cumulative conformance count (CCC) control 
chart has been documented by many researchers [3-6]. The random number of CCC is 
the number of inspected number between two consecutive nonconforming units. The 
basic idea is that the distribution of CCC will change if the fraction nonconforming 
p  of a process shifts. In particular, the expected CCC is shortened as p  increases, 
and it is lengthened as p  decreases. The CCC chart has also been highly 
recommended for high-yield processes. 
In the CCC chart, if a CCC value satisfies LCL<CCCUCL, then the process is 
considered to be under control. However, if CCCLCL, then an upward shift from 
the in-control value  due to a possible deterioration is signaled; while if 
LCL and UCL are the lower and upper control limits of the CCC chart. Most literature 
focus only on the design of LCL for an upward shift in 
0p
CCC>UCL, then a downward shift due to a ent is signaled. Here possible improvem
p  since it is more serious 
concern in practice. The LCL can be expressed by 
]
)ln(1
)ln(1[LCL
0p
                             (1) 
where   is an acceptable rate of false alarm. 
pi  inspection is suggested for the 
impl
idea of Liu et al., Chen et al. [8] proposed the VSIL CCC chart, 
hic
Ty cally the strategy of using 100%
ementation of the CCC chart. However, when taking the practical factors such as 
the inspection cost and inspection time into account 100% inspection would be costly 
for the high-yield processes. Instead of inspecting the items individually, Liu et al. [7] 
used sampling to reduce the inspection cost and time. They considered every 
individual item inspected as a sample (i.e., sample size is one), and called the time 
between two successive samples the sampling interval. They further employed a 
variable sampling interval (VSI) scheme to improve the detection speed of control 
charts for process changes without increasing the rate of inspected items and false 
alarm occurrences. 
 Following the 
w h allows the length of sampling interval and the width of control limits adaptive, 
depending on the position of the last CCC point on the chart. If the last CCC point 
falls in the warning region of the chart, then the control is tighten by shortening the 
 2
While rts can be 
impr
charts 
arameters (sample size, sampling interval, and the width of 
cont
the current research has shown the efficiency of CCC cha
oved by the scheme of variable sampling interval and control limits (VSIL), they 
did not consider the economic aspect. Therefore, this study aims to extend Chen et 
al.’s work based on the economic criterion in designing the VSIL CCC-chart. 
二、文獻探討 
1. Adaptive control 
The use of adaptive p
rol limits) for a control chart has been shown an effective scheme to improve the 
time required for detecting process changes and reduce its cost. Control chart with 
adaptive parameters was initiated by Reynolds et al. [9], in which the X  control 
chart with variable sampling intervals (VSI) was investigated and shown more 
efficient than the standard chart with all parameters fixed through the process. Since 
then, a significant amount of research has explored the control chart with adaptive 
parameters to improve its sensitivity to detect moderate to small process disturbances. 
For examples, Reynolds et al. [10], Amin & Hemasinha [11] and Amin & Miller [12] 
studied in depth the properties of the VSI X  charts. Prabhu et al. [13] and Costa [14] 
proposed the scheme of variable samp size (VSS) and applied to le X  charts. 
Subsequent studies to Prabhu et al. [13] and Costa [14] allowed both the sa ple size 
and sampling interval variable (VSSI) [15-16], or even considered all parameters 
variable (VP) [17]. The use of variable parameters has also applied to other control 
charts, such as the EWMA charts [18], CUSUM charts [19], 
m
RX   charts [20], and 
multivariate charts [21-22]. Most of studies concentrated on ontrol charts for 
monitoring continuous variables rather than attributes [23]. However, the scheme of 
adaptive parameters has been shown as well to be capable of improving the 
performance of the control chart for attributes [24-26]. 
2. Economic design 
 the c
ach to the economic design of control chart is to develop a cost 
fun
s are 
ava
The typical appro
ction for the manufacturing process, estimate the function’s process/cost 
parameters, and find the optimal design parameters that minimize the cost function. 
Duncan [27] proposed a cost function in which the process remains in operation 
during the search for an assignable cause. Chiu [28] proposed another cost function 
that allows the process to shut down during the search for an assignable cause.  
For the economic design of adaptive control charts, additional parameter
ilable: multiple sampling interval lengths, sample sizes and warning/control limits. 
Bai and Lee [29] followed Chiu’s model to study the economic design of VSI charts. 
Park and Reynolds [30] considered the economic design of VSSI control charts. The 
model they adopted is similar to Duncan’s model. Numerical results show substantial 
 4
10 )()( tFAEtATCTE  .                        (2) 
where  
ATC  = the average time from the cycle start to the time the chart signals after the 
process change. 
ount of time to search for the assignable cause when the 
   = the tim e assignable cause following an action 
For the expected net profit from a production cycle, we have 
0t     = the average am
process is in-control. 
) = the expected number of false alarms at each production cycle. 
e to identify and correct th
(FAE
1t  
signal. 
)()()1()1()( 1010 NsECFAECATCVVCE ,                (3) 
where  
  = the hourly profit earned when the process is operating in control state. 
 t-of-control state. 
  = the average search cost if the given signal is false. 
the average cost to discover the assignable cause and adjust the process to 
in-control state. 
 By (2) and (3), the expected loss per hour can be expressed by 
0V  
1V   = the hourly profit earned when the process is operating in ou
0C  
1C    = 
s     = the cost for each inspected item. 
E )(N = the average number of inspected items during a production cycle.  
)(LE  
)(/)()( 0 TECEVLE                         (4) 
2. 
The is a function of the process parameters
Solution procedure 
 cost function E )(L  )( 1010 p,p,,t,t  , 
th the design parameters ( , 
 with 
mixed continuous-discrete decision variables and a 
ficient and time-consuming to apply typical non-linear 
 to a search for the optimal solution. But genetic algorithms 
(GA for th verging to loca
optima in a multimodal space than do the typical techniques. 
or carrying out are p ckag
EVOL
e cost parameters )( 1010 V,V,C,C,s , and 1WL , 2WL , 1LCL
2LCL , 1h , 2h ). The economic design of a control chart for a particular application is to 
)(LE  derive the design parameters that minimize for the given process and cost 
parameters. This minimization problem can be regarded as a decision problem
discontinuous and non-convex 
solution space. It may be inef
programming techniques
s) are well suitable is because they have less chance of con l 
The tool used f the GAs is a commercial softw a e called 
VER (http:// www.palisade.com.au/evolver), which can function as an add-on 
to Microsoft Excel. Through a 43  factorial design the following setting of control 
parameters for the package manipulation has been used: population size was set to 50; 
crossover probability was set up to 0.3; mutation rate was set up to 0.25; and the 
number of generations was set to at least 20,000 times. 
 6
Table 1 Levels for each parameters 
Model parameters Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
0p  50ppm 100ppm  
)( 01 pp  5 10 20 
5 10 20 
0V  75 
0C   
 10 30 60 
150 300 
1C
1V  12.5 25 50 
0t  0.05 0.10 0.20 
1t  0.15 0.30 0.60   0.00025 0.0005 0.001 
s  0.25 0.50 1.00 
 
Tables 3-5 illustrate the outputs of linear regression analysis model with stepwise 
selection method. The regression analysis is run by the statistical software SPSS 10.0. 
Table 3 is the output of regression analysis for the optimal value of the lower control 
limit. 
From the ANOV aller than the 
predetermined significance level that implies there is at least one input parameter 
significantly affecting the optimal value of the um mple size. By examining 
the regression equation, it is found that the levels of input parameters (
A result, we find the p-value (i.e., Pr>F) is sm
minim  sa
0p , 0V , s , 1V , ) 
can significantly affect . In add , the  of the estimate f2CL or 0V  and   
 
L ition  sign
are positive, indicating the VSIL chart tends to require a er
 or 
 larg 2LCL  as the level of
0V   is larger. On the other hand, the sign of the estim
are negative, indicating the VSIL chart  r a 
 or 
ate for 
r LCL
0p
2  
, s
as th
 and 1V
vel of 
 
tends to equire smalle e le
0V   is larger. As r the optimal value of the 
beca
 fo 1LCL , it would be ignored here 
use there is no input parameter significantly affecting it. 
Table 4 shows the outputs of regression analysis for the optimal warning limits. 
It can be seen that the magnitude of   and 0p  are the input significant parameters 
influencing on both of  and . As can be seen from Table 4, the positive 
coef
1WL 2WL
ficient of   in each regression model implies that the VSIL chart with larger 
warning limits would be more appropriate for a larger mean shift in nonconforming 
fraction. In the mean while, the negative coefficient of 0p  in each regression model 
implies that the VSIL chart with smaller warning limits would be mo p o i  
Table 5 demonstrates the outputs of regression analysis for the co  saving  
magnitude of mean shift ( ) is the only input parameter that significantly affects the 
ount of cost savings. Furthermore, the cost saving would be ra d hen t  
 
re ap r pr ate
when the original nonconforming fraction is larger. 
st s
obtained by using the VSIL CCC chart instead of the CCC chart. As we can see, the 
am ise w he
amount of shift in the nonconforming fraction is large. 
 8
Table 5 Linear regression analysis for cost savings 
Model =      F=12.5 2 %  9   Pr>F=0.001** 
  
Parameter Estimate Std. error t  Pr>  || t
Intercept 0.09288 0.03 3.107 0.004**   0.008018 0.002 3.549 0.001** 
**: significance level 0.0
 
參考文獻 
STA. Monitoring high-yields process with defects count in 
nonconfo omputation 
7; 1 : 2 2
[2] a R, Sag ynabar K Y. On the conditional decision procedure 
ield processes. Computers and al Engineer 7; 53: 469
[3] Calvin TW. Q tech zero-defe EEE Transactions on 
mponents, Hy gy 1983; 6: 323-328. 
TN.  control chart for ver  Assurance 1987; 13: 18-22. 
[5] h TN. So ures for aking in co g high yield processes. 
Quality Reliabilit  International 1992; 8: 355-3
oh TN. Economic design of cumulative count of conforming charts 
under inspectio omics 2008; 111: 
10
[7] e M, Go  QH, Yang ZH. Cumulative count of conforming chart with 
ampling in nternationa al of Produ Economics 01: 
8] Chen YK, Chen JY, Chiou KC. Cumulative conformance count chart with variable 
tervals and control limits. Applied Stochastic Models in Business and Industry 
[9] 
1 
[1] Abbasi B, Niaki 
rming items by artificial neural network. Applied Mathematics and C
200 88 6 -270. 
Noorossan haei A, Pa , Samimi 
for high y  Industri ing 200 -477. 
uality control niques for “ cts”. I
Co brid and Manufacturing Technolo
[4] Goh A y high yield processes. Quality
X oie M, G me proced decision m ntrollin
y Engineering 60. 
[6] Zhang CW, Xie M, G
n by samples. International Journal of Production Econ
93- 4. 
Liu JY, Xi h TN, Liu
variable s tervals. I l Journ ction  2006; 1
286-297. 
[
sampling in
2011; 27: 410-420.  
Reynolds MR Jr, Amin RW, Arnold JC, Nachlas JA. X  charts with variable sampling 
intervals. Technometrics 1988; 30: 181-192. 
[10] Reynolds MR Jr. Evaluating properties of variable sampling interval control charts. 
Sequential Analysis 1995; 14: 59-97. 
[11] Amin RW, Hemasinha R. The switching behavior of X  charts with variable sampling 
intervals. Communication in Statistics-Theory and Methods 1993; 22: 2081-2102. 
[12] Amin RW, Miller RW. A robustness study of X  charts with variable sampling intervals. 
Journal of Quality Technology 1993; 25: 36-44. 
] Prabhu SS, Runger GC, Keats JB. An adaptive sample siz[13 e X  chart. International 
[14
Journal of Production Research 1993; 31: 2895-2909. 
] Costa AFB. X  control chart with variable sample size. Journal of Quality Technology 
1994; 26: 155-163. 
[15] Prabhu SS, Montgomery DC, Runger GC. A combined adaptive sample size and 
 10
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                  日期： 101  年 10 月 8  日 
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－025－002－ 
計畫名稱 適應性累積計數和管制圖之最佳化設計 
出國人員
姓名 陳彥匡 
服務機構
及職稱 國立臺中科技大學 流通管理系 
會議時間 
 101 年 6 月 2 日
至 
 101 年 6 月 3 日 
會議地點 香港 
會議名稱 2012 2nd Journal Conference on Trade, Economics and Finance 
發表題目 Cumulative Conformance Count Charts with Variable Sample Sizes 
一、參加會議經過 
06/02 前往Lobby of  Harbour Plaza 8 Degrees研討會會場報到，領取相關資料。 
06/03 早上聆聽演講。 
Opening Remarks by Prof. Dimiter Georgiev Velev (Conference Chair)  
Keynote Speeches by  
Dr. Donald Chang (School of Business Metropolitan State College, Denver, USA)  
Dr. Chun-Hua Lin (Taiwan Shoufu University, Taiwan) 
Prof. James K. Ho (University of Illinois at Chicago, USA)  
Dr. Sinnappan Santhidran (Creative Industries Tunku Abdul Rahman University Petaling Jaya, Selangor MALAYSIA)  
06/03 中午SESSION-1 (Salon II & Salon III)場次之論文報告及參與討論。 
06/03 晚上 Dinner Banquet 。 
 
二、與會心得 
很感謝國科會補助本人參與此次國際學術會議。此次研討會的主辦單位 IEDRC過去曾在世界各地舉辦許多重要研討會，本次也如
同往年成功地吸引各國學者參與，提高主辦學校與單位知名度，更成功地行銷了城市觀光價值。由於JCTEF 2012 2  屬於Journal nd
 1
 2012 JECTEF2nd 大會議程表(部分影像擷取) 
 
  
 3
  
 
Abstract—Cumulative count of conforming (CCC) chart has 
been shown effective for high-yield processes with very low 
fraction of nonconforming items. Traditional CCC chart 
assumes the products from a process are inspected item by item. 
Recently, the CCC chart was generalized to conform to the 
industrial practice where items are inspected sample by sample 
without according to the production order. Different from the 
traditional chart, the generalized CCC chart monitors the 
cumulative count of samples until a nonconforming sample is 
encountered. In order to improve the power of the generalized 
CCC chart to detect process changes, this study applied the 
control scheme of variable sample size (VSS) to the generalized 
CCC chart. The average time to signal (ATS) process change of 
the proposed chart was derived by Markov chain approach and 
taken as performance measure to evaluate its statistical 
efficiency. Performance comparisons between the proposed 
chart and generalized CCC chart are made to evaluate its 
usefulness. 
 
Index Terms—Cumulative conformance count, Variable 
sample size, Markov chain.  
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The control chart is one of the primary statistical process 
control tool for improving and maintaining quality and 
productivity of modern manufacturing industries. The use of a 
control chart is to detect the assignable causes in the process 
as early as possible and help to remove them. Adaptive 
control charts are ones with an adaptive control scheme that 
allow at least one of their parameters (sampling size, sampling 
interval, and control limits) to adapt, depending on the 
indication of sample statistic on the chart. The use of adaptive 
control schemes is to improve the time required for detecting 
process changes and reduce its cost. Up to now, most of the 
works on adaptive control charts focus on the X  charts. The 
variable sampling intervals (VSI) X  chart was initiated by 
Reynolds, Amin, Arnold & Nachlas [1]. Subsequently, 
Reynolds [2], Amin & Hemasinha [3] and Amin & Miller [4] 
studied in depth the properties of the VSI X  charts. Prabhu, 
Runger & Keats [5] and Costa [6] studied the properties of the 
variable sample size (VSS) X  charts. The properties of the 
charts with variable sample size and variable sampling 
 
Manuscript received March 25, 2012. This work was supported in part by 
the National Science Council of Taiwan under Grant No. NSC 
99-2221-E-025-006.  
Y. K. Chen is with Department of Distribution Management, National 
Taichung University of Science and Technology, 129, Sec 3, Sanmin Rd, 
Taichung, Taiwan (e-mail: ykchen@ nutc.edu.tw).  
C. Y. Chen is with Department of Electronic Engineering, National 
Yunlin University of Science & Technolgy, 123, Sec 3, University Rd, 
Douliu, Yunlin, Taiwan (e-mail: author@lamar. colostate.edu). 
 
interval (VSSI) were further studied in many papers (e.g., [7], 
[8], [9]). The use of adaptive parameters has also applied to 
other variable charts, such as the EWMA charts [10], 
CUSUM charts [11], RX   charts [12], and multivariate 
charts [13],[14]. 
While there are several studies on adaptive control chart for 
variables, it is seldom to find the studies on adaptive control 
chart for attributes. However, it has been shown that the 
control scheme of adapting parameters is capable of 
improving the performance of the control chart for attributes 
as well (e.g., [15], [16], [17], [18], [19]). 
Due to the rapid growth of automated technologies, many 
production processes today are producing a very low level of 
nonconforming items. In view of this, the cumulative 
conformance count (CCC) chart has received many attentions 
from the industry (e.g., [20], [21], [22]). Traditionally, it is 
assumed that the products from a process are inspected item 
by item or sequentially in the order of production when 
implementing the CCC chart. However, in view of a large 
production volume, an economy of scale or easy in group 
inspection, there are practical situations where products from 
a process are inspected sample by sample or lot by lot, without 
preserving the original ordering of production [23]. In such 
circumstances, the traditional CCC chart is no longer 
applicable. To adapt to this case, Zhang et al.[23] proposed a 
generalized CCC chart to monitor the cumulative number of 
samples until a nonconforming sample is encountered. The 
generalized CCC chart can reduce to the traditional CCC 
chart if the sample size equals 1. 
In this paper, we extend the variable sampling scheme to 
the generalized CCC chart. Note that in the CCC chart each 
time a sample is inspected one may not obtain a data point of 
the chart statistic as in the traditional Shewhart-type chart. 
Therefore, we assume sampling at fixed times and only 
discuss the generalized CCC chart with the VSS scheme by 
administrative considerations.  
II. THE VSS-CCC  CHARTS 
Consider a situation where products from a process are 
inspected sample by sample without according to the original 
ordering of production. We name a sample nonconforming if 
it contains one or more nonconforming items and conforming 
if it contains nonconforming items. Assume the fractional 
nonconforming of the process is p  and the sample size for 
each sampling inspection is n . 
Cumulative Conformance Count Charts  
with Variable Sample Sizes 
Y. K. Chen and C. Y. Chen 
  
discrete, the control limit could be rounded to integers and 
calculated by  
                 ]
)1(
)1(1
[LCL
pln
αln
n 

                         (3) 
where [y]  stands for the largest integer not greater than y . 
The true false alarm rate 'α  getting from the rounded control 
limit may be not exactly equal to α , but it is extremely close 
when p  is very small [18].  
For the generalized CCC chart, the time between 
successively inspected samples is treated as the sampling 
interval (saying h ). The sample size, sampling interval length, 
and control limit are fixed without any change through the 
process. The generalized CCC chart can reduce to standard 
one if the sample size is 1, i.e., the case that items are 
inspected one by one in the order of production. 
The VSS CCC chart (namely the VSSCCC  chart) is a 
modification of the generalized CCC chart. Let 1n  and 2n  be 
the minimum and maximum sample sizes, respectively, such 
that 21 nnn   while keeping the sampling interval fixed at 
h  for the administration consideration. The decision to 
switch between the maximum and minimum sample size 
depends on position of the prior sample point on the control 
chart. If the prior sample point falls in the safe region, the 
minimum sample size 1n  will be used for the current sample 
point; if the prior sample point falls in the warning region, the 
maximum sample size 2n  will be used for the current sample 
point. Finally, if the prior sample point falls in the action 
region, then the process is considered out-of-control. Here the 
safety, warning and action regions are given by the warning 
limit( WL ) and the lower control limit ( LCL ): safety region 
is given by ),(WL j  , warning region is given by 
]WL,(LCL jj , and the action region is given by ]LCL(0, j , 
where 1j  if the prior sample point comes from the small 
sample, whereas 2j  if the prior sample point comes from 
the large sample. Consequently, 21 WLWL   and 
21 LCLLCL  . For the sake of simplicity, we assume jWL  
is selected such that 
}X}/Pr{LCLWLXPr{LCL  
}X}/Pr{LCLWL XPr{LCL
222
111

τ
      (4) 
where τ  is the probability allocation determined by users.  
As the warning limit and lower control limit are varied 
depending on the value of X , we follow the idea of Costa [25] 
to construct a control chart with two scales: one on left hand 
side and the other on the right hand side. The point obtained 
from the minimum sample is plotted according to the left scale, 
whereas the one obtained from the maximum sample is 
plotted according to the right scale. Because the left scale is 
not proportional to the right scale, we further break the left 
scale referring to Costa [25] and plot the point inside the right 
region. In this way, the effort to monitor a process with the 
VSSCCC  chart or with the generalized CCC chart is almost 
the same. 
Fig. 1 shows the charting and decision procedure for the 
VSSCCC chart. To give additional protection against 
problems that arises during start-up, the initial sample size is 
set to be the maximum sample size 2n , and thus the warning 
limit and lower control limit are 2WL  and 2LCL  
respectively to tighten the control. The charting and decision 
procedure is similar to that of the generalized chart except that 
the adaptive control: tightened or loosened depends on the 
position the current point falls.  
III. PERFORMANCE MEASURE 
Average time to signal ( ATS) is the most commonly used 
measure to evaluate the statistical performance of different 
control charts when the lengths of time interval between two 
successive sample points are not fixed and equal for the 
compared charts. When the process is in-control, the larger 
the value for ATS the lower the false alarm rate; whereas 
when the process is out-of-control, the smaller the value for 
ATS, the quicker the speed it takes the chart to detect the 
increase in the fractional nonconforming.  
Due to the memoryless property of the geometric 
distribution, the ATS  performance for the VSSCCC  chart 
can be determined by the Markov chain approach [26]. At 
each sample point, one of the following states can be reached: 
State 1: X  safety region, State 2: X  warning region, and 
State 3: X  action region. States 1 and 2 are transient states 
and State 3 is an absorbing state. The transition probability 
matrix is given by 











100
232221
131211
ppp
ppp
P                           (5) 
where 
1111 WLWL
1111
)(1])(1[11      
}WLPr{1}WLPr{
 

nn
pp
XXp
; 
1211 WLLCL
1112
)(1)(1       
}WLPr{LCL
 

nn
pp
Xp
; 
121113 1 ppp  ; 
22 WL
221 )(1}WLPr{
 npXp ; 
2222 WLLCL
2222
)(1)(1       
}WLPr{LCL
 

nn
pp
Xp
; 
222123 1 ppp  . 
 
Note that the notation p  in above formulae stands for the 
fractional nonconforming of the process: 0pp   means the 
process is in-control while 1pp   means the process is 
out-of-control. By the elementary properties of the Markov 
chain,  
tQIr
1)(ATS                             (6) 
where )( 21, rrr  is the vector of initial probability for states 
1 and 2 such that 121  rr  (In this paper, the vector r  is set 
as (0, 1) to provide a tightening control to prevent problems 
that are encountered during start-up); I  is the identity matrix 
of order 2; Q  is the transition matrix P  where elements 
associated with the absorbing state are deleted; and 





21 nn
p
h
p
h ,t  is the vector of average time required to 
encounter the next nonconforming sample when arriving at 
one of the two transient states 1 and 2. Consequently, 
  
Let α =0.005, h =1.0, 0p =
6105  , we compare the 
matched VSSCCC chart and the generalized CCC chart in 
terms of the percentage of improvement (PI) in 1ATS  for the 
following cases: 0n =10, 15 and 20. In each case, the value for 
1n  is given to find the value for 2n (e.g., in the case of 0n =10, 
when the value of 1n  is given by 1, the value of 2n  is 503 to 
match the VSSCCC chart with the generalized CCC chart.) A 
simple computer program for EVOLOVER4.0 was written to 
search for 2n . Table I provides the comparison results for 
different degrees of changes in the fractional nonconforming. 
From Table I, it can be found that 
(1) The greater the shift in the fractional nonconforming 
01 pp , the larger the value for PI, and the more efficient 
the VSSCCC  chart as compared with the generalized 
CCC chart. 
(2) The greater the difference between the lengths of 1n  and 
2n , the larger the value for PI, and the more efficient the 
VSSCCC chart as compared with the generalized CCC 
chart. 
(3) The larger the value for averaged sample size 0n , the 
larger the value for PI, and the more efficient the 
VSSCCC chart as compared with the generalized CCC 
chart. 
 
Fig. 2 The trend of PI (%) values for different false alarm rates 
  
Fig. 3 The trend of PI (%) values for different in-control 
fractional nonconforming 
 
To further investigate the effects of the averaged false 
alarm rate ( α ) and the fractional nonconforming ( 0p ) on the 
trend of the PI (%) values for different process shifts, we fixed 
100 n  and 1n =1 in accordance with the finding from Table 
I, and only changed one of α  and 0p  at a time. Fig. 2 and 3 
depict the trends of PI (%) against different false alarm rate 
and original fractional nonconforming, respectively. As we 
can see, the trend of PI (%) values is affected by both of the 
false alarm rate and original fractional nonconforming: the 
value for PI increases as the false alarm rate decreases or as 
the original fractional nonconforming increase. In other 
words, the VSSCCC  chart is more efficient when the false 
alarm rate is small or when the original fractional 
nonconforming is not extremely small. 
VI. INDUSTRIAL EXAMPLE 
Assume an injection molding process that produces the 
micro-prism array of optical element by way of the three 
stages: filling, packing, packing and cooling. The surface 
roughness of the product directly impacts its surface quality. 
Thus, the mould’s should be polished to ensure it within the 
specification. Once the parameter selection is complete and 
the machinery is stabilized, the process can move on to fully 
automated production. In such a manufacturing environment, 
the yield of the process is very high. Generally, the fractional 
nonconforming 0p  is at the level of 
6105  . For most of 
time the process stays in the in-control state, but occasionally 
the fractional nonconforming shifts from the original level. 
The items are manufactured lot by lot. The lot size is 1200 
items and the cycle time for each item is about 3 seconds, so it 
needs about two hours for a lot ( h =1.0). Due to economy of 
scale a sample of size 20 ( 0n =20) is taken from each lot and 
inspected without preserving the original ordering of 
production. In such circumstance, a generalized CCC chart is 
employed to monitor the cumulative number of samples X  
until a nonconforming sample is met.  The X values are 
plotted on the chart with lower control limit placed at 
)]1()1([LCL 0
-1
0 pln/αlnn  =50. 
 As the speed with the generalized CCC chart to detect the 
process shift is low, the process engineer is planning to 
monitor the process by adding a VSS feature to the 
generalized CCC chart. The new plan puts a warning limit in 
the VSSCCC  chart to identify when to shift from one sample 
size to another (see Fig. 4). By choosing 1n =1, the value for 
2n  is determined by 510 to match the generalized CCC chart. 
Meanwhile, this plan varies the warning limit WL  and the 
lower control limit LCL  between two values:  (8461, 15) for 
)WL,(WL 21 ,   (1002, 1) for )LCL,(LCL 21 . Accordingly, if 
the current X  value falls into the safety region, the minimum 
sample size of one item will be used until the next 
nonconforming sample appears; oppositely, if the current X  
value falls into the warning region, the maximum sample size 
of 510 items will be used until the next nonconforming sample 
appears. The process is stopped if the X  value falls into the 
action region. 
 Table II shows a set of data from the process. The VSSCCC  
chart based on the data set is shown in Fig. 4. The left scale in 
the chart with the warning limit of 8461 and lower control 
limit of 1002 is used when the X  values obtained from small 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 適應性累積計數和管制圖之最佳化設計
計畫主持人: 陳彥匡
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-025-002- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
