1 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
□期中進度報告 
■期末報告 
 
計畫名稱：負重及其重心高度對持物作業之研究 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100－2221－E－218－033－ 
執行期間： 100年 8月 1日至 101年 7月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：南台科技大學工業管理研究所 
 
計畫主持人：李慈賢 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：曾家芸、葉穎辰 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國報告： 
□赴國外移地研究心得報告 
□赴大陸地區移地研究心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101年  9 月 26 日 
 
3 
 
 
 
摘要 
 
本研究招募十四位年輕男性探討不同的負重與負重的重心高度對持物肌肉活動度與穩定度之影
響。本研究中受試者被要求以 15 %、30 %、45 %及 60 % 的最大持物能力水準及重心高度在手
把高、高於手把 20cm 及高於手把 40cm 高等共 12 種（4 x 3）實驗組合進行實驗。本研究顯示
受試者肱橈肌、二頭肌及背脊肌肌肉活動度隨著負重的增加而增高。但負重的重心高度對受試
者肱橈肌、二頭肌及背脊肌肌肉活動度並無顯著的影響。此外，持物時箱子的加速度會隨著負
重的增加而增高或隨著重心高度的降低而增加。負重及負重的重心高度之交互作用對箱子的加
速度有顯著的影響。本研究建議對低震動的持物作業應降低持物作業的重量。 
 
關鍵字：震動、負重、持物 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
 
This study recruited 14 young males to examine the effect of load and height of the load’s COG on 
muscular activity and acceleration (g) of box vibration during the holding. In this study, participants 
were asked to hold a container by exerting 15 %, 30 %, 45 % and 60 % of their maximum hold 
capabilities, in three heights of the load’s COG relative to the box handles (box handles height, 20 cm 
higher than box handles height, 40cm higher than box handles height). The results show that the 
muscular activities of brachioradialis, biceps brachii, and erector spinae increased with the load. 
However, the load’s COG did not significantly affect participants’ muscular activities. Additionally, 
the acceleration of the box increased with the load irrespective of the height of the load’s COG., and 
the acceleration of the box decreased with the height of the load’s COG irrespective of the load. The 
interaction effect of load and the height of the load’s COG on the acceleration of the box were 
significant. This study recommended that the load demand should be decreased for the holding task 
that requires low vibration.  
 
Keywords: vibration, load, holding 
5 
 
the provision of handles on boxes has been shown to reduce the possibility of dropping the box (Rigby 
1973). Thirdly, the provision of handles on boxes can reduce energy expenditure (Mital and Ayoub 1981; 
Garg and Saxena 1980), and lower heart rate response in performing MMH tasks (Mital and Ayoub 1981). 
Jung and Jung (2003) also showed that the oxygen consumption, heart rate, and Borg-RPE score for a 
fertilizer bag with carrying handles were relatively lower than those for bags without handles. Fourthly, 
Ciriello et al. (1993) reported that the maximum acceptable weights of lifting were about 16 % lower 
when no handles were used. Fifthly, Marras et al. (1999) showed that the inclusion of handles on 
containers had an effect similar to reducing the weight of container by 4.5 kg. In addition to the studies 
concerning the benefits of box equipped with handles in MMH tasks, Ando et al. (2000) studied the 
effects of handle location on a box on strength and perceived exertion in isometric ad dynamic lifting. 
They reported that gripping bilateral handles near the upper edges of the box was the best as compared to 
holding bottom edges on either side and holding the left lower proximal corner and the right upper distal 
corner. Recently, Jung and Jung (2010) determined the optimal handle position of a box based on user 
preferences and body part discomfort. The results showed that the optimal handle positions depended on 
box size and handling position. The users preferred the upper part of the handles on a small box 
regardless of handling position; while the mid to upper parts of the handles on a big box were preferred 
for handling above the waist height. Body part discomfort also indicated that an upper handle was less 
stressful for small box than for big one; and mid to upper handles were less comfortable for a big box. In 
addition to the evidences listed above, the provision of handles on boxes also helps reducing trapping, 
pinching and cutting of the hands and fingers in MMH tasks. In summary, the available evidence suggests 
that box equipped with handles can improve human capability and safety, and lower the strains imposed 
by load on body in MMH task. The placement of handles in box can also affects human preference and 
capability.  
To date, the benefits of box equipped with handles in MMH tasks are sure. However, it should be 
noted that the design of box handles should consider more factors for the benefits of handles to take effect. 
In addition to the box size and handling position as noted in the study of Jung and Jung (2010), the design 
of box handles should also incorporate the characteristics of the handled loads. One very important 
characteristic of the handled load in the design of box handles is the height of the load’s center of gravity 
(COG) in handling. From the perspective of biomechanics, the optimum design of handle placement 
should dependent on the height of the load’s COG. This means we cannot overlook the effect of the height 
of load’s COG when recommending the design of box handles. The importance of the height of the load’s 
COG in handling can be perceived from our handling experience. We can perceive quite a lot differences 
in task difficulty, muscular efforts and body movement agility between handling a box with a high load’s 
COG position and handling a box with a low load’s COG position. In practice, the risk for falling while 
handling a box with high load’s COG position is also greater than handling a box with low load’s COG 
position. Despite the importance of the effect of the height of the handled load’s COG on MMH tasks, to 
our knowledge, the effect of the height of the load’s COG on human behavior and capability in MMH 
tasks is nearly ignored in literature. 
The objective of this proposal is to design a scientific experiment to examine the effects of load and 
7 
 
adjusted for the participant to fit a 90-degree arms posture when the participant held the box. The box was 
randomly loaded with some irons at center of the box bottom. The participant was asked to lift and hold 
the box clear off the table for at least 3 second. If the participant succeeded, the weight of the box was 
added and the participant was asked to repeat the task again. The procedure repeated until the participant 
failed the lift and hold task. The maximum weight that the participant could lift and hold represented his 
maximum holding capacity. 
2.4.2. Formal holding experiment 
Three pairs of surface EMG electrodes were attached on the participant’s right brachioradialis, biceps 
brachii, and erector spinae after proper skin preparation. Each participant was asked to perform 12 (4 
loads x 3 heights of load’s COG) holding conditions in a random order. The box was placed on a 
height-adjustable table in front of the participant. The participant’s holding posture was identical to that in 
the test of his maximal holding capacity. The participant was asked to lift and hold the box clear off the 
table and visually control the box as steady as possible for 20 seconds. The muscular activity and 
acceleration of the box vibration were measured for the 20-second period. At least ten minutes rest (or 
longer if desired) was provided between two tests. 
 At the end of the experiment, the EMG signals of brachioradialis (arms flexion), biceps brachii (arms 
flexion) and erector spinae (trunk extension) for the participant performing maximum voluntary 
contraction were collected for EMG normalization. 
 
2.5. Data analysis 
The EMG signals were collected, amplified, filtered (band pass 20-500 Hz), rectified and processed to 
provide root mean square (RMS) EMG data. The RMS EMG data were sampled at a rate of 32 Hz and 
then normalized to %MVC (maximum voluntary contraction). The box acceleration signals were sampled 
at a rate of 100 Hz. For each holding condition, each participant’s %MVC EMG data of the 20-second 
holding time were averaged. The box acceleration data of the 20-second holding time were processed to 
provide as RMS acceleration. The averaged EMG and RMS acceleration data then were subjected to 
statistical calculations. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to examine the effects of load and the 
height of the load’s COG of a box on the responses of human muscular activity and box vibration. 
Duncan’s multiple range test was then further used for post hoc comparison. A level of 0.05 (α=0.05) 
was used for significant tests. 
 
3. Results 
Table 1 shows the mean(SD) muscular activities (%MVC) of all participants for the 12 holding 
conditions. Table 1 reveals that the muscular activities of brachioradialis, biceps brachii, and erector 
spinae increased with the load. Table 2 shows the significant results of ANOVA on muscular activities. 
The ANOVA showed that the effects of participants and load on the muscular activities of brachioradialis, 
9 
 
force and EMG signal is believed to be nonlinear under many circumstances (Chaffin et al. 1999). 
However, the EMG signal shows a nearly linear increase from rest to maximal voluntary muscle exertion 
in the case of isometric contraction (Kroemer et al. 1994). In this study, the analysis of linear correlation 
was further performed on the data of load and its associated % MVC to examine the linearity of the 
relationship between the load and EMG signal. The results showed a high linearity between the load and 
EMG signal. The coefficients of linear correlation between the load and EMG signal for the 
brachioradialis, biceps brachii and erector spinae were, averaged across the three load’s COG heights, all 
0.99. The results consolidated the linearity of the EMG-muscle force relationship in isometric contraction. 
However, applying this linear relationship demands caution. Generalization beyond the range of the loads 
(15 % to 60 %) is unwarranted without further data to validate. In addition, this study showed that the 
height of the load’s COG did not significantly affect muscular activity. This result can be attributed to fact 
that the height of the load’s COG did not change the load’s moment to the body in isometric holding tasks 
of this study. 
 
The acceleration of the box represented the vibration of the box during holding. The acceleration of 
the box depended on the muscular capability and load demand. The role of the arm muscles in holding 
tasks is to keep the box motionless. Heavier load demands more muscular effort that increases the 
difficulty in muscular control. The more the load demand exceeds the muscular capability, the more the 
acceleration of the box is anticipated. Our results showed that the acceleration of the box increased with 
the load irrespective of the height of load’s COG was in congruent with our anticipation. The 
accelerations of the box, averaged across three load’s COG heights, at 60 %, 45 %, and 30 % of the 
maximum holding capacity were approximately 2.6, 2, and 1.2 folds of that of 15 % maximum holding 
capacity, respectively. Our results demonstrated that the load demand is an important factor to holding 
vibration. For the holding task that requires low vibration, this study recommended that the load demand 
should be decreased. However, whether or no the acceleration of the box decreases further for the load 
below 15 % maximum holding capacity was not examined in this study. The relationship between load 
and acceleration for the load below 15 % maximum holding capacity should be investigated for drawing a 
more specific recommendation of the holding load. 
Though the load demand in holding a low, middle or high load’s COG box was invariant, the height of 
load’s COG affect the control of the box in holding task. The result of this study showed that the height of 
the load’s COG significantly affected the acceleration of the box. The acceleration of the box decreased 
with the height of the load’s COG. This result was to the contrary of our anticipation. In addition, the 
interaction effect of the height of the load’s COG and load on the acceleration of the box was also 
significant. Figure 1 shows the acceleration of the box in different load’s COG and the interaction effect 
of the height of the load’s COG and load on the acceleration of the box. Figure 1 shows that the effect of 
the height of load’s COG on the acceleration of box increased with the load. Why the acceleration of the 
box decreased with the height of the load’s COG was surprising even most participants declared that 
holding a high load’s COG was tougher than holding a low load’s COG. This study has not enough 
scientific explanation for this finding. However, it might be that acceleration is not an effective index for 
measuring holding difficulty or participants were tended to more careful in motor control when they dealt 
11 
 
References: 
Ando, S., Ono, Y., Shimaoka, M., Hiruta, S., Hattori, Y., Hori, F., Imaeda, T., Takeuchi, Y., 2000. Strength 
and perceived exertion in isometric and dynamic lifting with three different hand locations. Journal of 
Occupational Health, 42, 315-320. 
Chaffin, D.B., Andersson, G.B.J., Martin, B.J., 1999. Occupational Biomechanics. 3
rd
 ed. New York: 
John Wiley & Sons Inc. 
Ciriello, V.M., Snook, S.H., Hughes, G.H., 1993. Further studies of psychophysically determined 
maximum acceptable weights and forces. Human Factors, 35, 175-186. 
Deeb, J.M., Drury, C.G., Begbie, K.L., 1985. Handle positions in a holding task as a function of task 
height, Ergonomics, 28, 747-763. 
Garg, A., Saxena, U.,1980. Container characteristics and maximum acceptable weight of lift. Human 
Factors, 22: 487-496. 
Jiang, B.C., Smith, J.L., Ayoub. M.M.,1986. Psychophysical modelling for combined manual 
materials-handling activities. Ergonomics, 29, 1173-1190. 
Jung, H.S., Jung, H.S., 2003. Development and ergonomic evalution of polypropylene laminated bags 
with carrying handles. International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, 31, 223-234. 
Jung, H.S., Jung, H.S., 2010. A survey of the optimal handle position for boxes with different sizes and 
manual handling positions. Applied Ergonomics, 41, 115-122. 
Marras, W.S., Granta, K.P., Davis, K.G., Allread, W.G., Jorgensen, M.J., 1999. Effects of box feathers on 
spine loading during warehouse order selecting. Ergonomics, 42, 980-996. 
Mital, A., Ayoub, M.M., 1981. Effect of task variables and their interactions in lifting and lowering loads. 
American Industrial Hygiene Association Journal, 42, 134-142. 
Nag, P.K., Sen, R.N., Ray, U.S., 1979. Cardio-respiratory performance of porters carrying load on a 
treadmill. Ergonomics, 22, 897—907. 
Rigby, L.V., 1973. Why do people drop things? Quality Progress:16-19. 
Snook, S. H., 1978. The design of manual handling tasks. Ergonomics, 21, 963-985. 
 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
0.03
0.06
0.09
0.12
0.15
15% 30% 45% 60%
load (% of maximum holding capability)
ac
cl
er
at
io
n 
(g
)
low COG
middle COG
high COG
 
 
 
Figure 1. The effect of the height of load’s COG on the acceleration of box increased with the load. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/14
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 負重及其重心高度對持物作業之研究
計畫主持人: 李慈賢
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-218-033- 學門領域: 人因工程與工業設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
