I中文摘要
使用最佳化與模擬模式，發展一個有效率且強健的長期水庫操作方法，是水資源相關
問題的一個重要議題。近年來，遺傳演算法證明是非常有效的最佳化方法，根據先前的研
究，實數編碼遺傳演算法(RGA)比二進位編碼遺傳演算法有較多的優勢，因此，本研究採
用 RGA 獲得 10 天（台灣傳統水庫操作的時期）水庫系統的操作規線。對於水庫規線編碼，
RGA 結合有效的和可彈性組合的方式，將其應用於台灣一個重要的水庫，考慮到 2021 年
水庫供水目標。評估每條規線是使用複雜的模擬模式，以決定給定之流量序列之表現指標，
重複執行疊代與估算之參數的過程，直到沒有獲得更進一步的改善而停止。做許多次的實
驗是為了決定適合的 RGA 運算元，包括宏觀進化（ME）的選擇與 blend-交換。宏觀進化
（ME）可用於防止傳統 GA 在傳統的選擇機制上之過早收斂的問題。調整交換參數的目
的是為了決定探勘或開發不同次群集的程度。藉由 RGA 以尋找合適之規線，可以使缺水最
小化並保持水庫之高水位，結果也顯示，所提出之 RGA，由一些修正運算元構成之模式，
可顯著改善系統的表現，且對於執行其它高度非線性系統亦非常有效率。
關鍵字：長時期水庫操作，實數編碼遺傳演算，規線，宏觀進化選擇，blend-交換。
ABSTRACT
Developing an efficient and robust method for long-term reservoir operation, using an
optimization and simulation model, is a critical issue related to water resources. Recently, genetic
algorithms have been demonstrated to be highly effective optimization methods. According to
previous studies, a real-coded genetic algorithm (RGA) has many advantages over a binary coded
genetic algorithm. Accordingly, this work applies an RGA to obtain the ten-day (the traditional
period of reservoir operation in Taiwan) operating rule curves for the proposed reservoir system.
The RGA is combined with an effective and flexible scheme for coding the reservoir rule curves,
and applied to an important reservoir in Taiwan, considering a water reservoir development
scenario to the year 2021. Each rule curve is evaluated using a complex simulation model to
determine a performance index for a given flow series. The process of generating and evaluating
decision parameters is repeated until no further improvement in performance is obtained. Many
experiments were performed to determine the suitable RGA components, including
macro-evolutionary (ME) selection and blend-crossover. Macro-evolution (ME) can be applied
to prevent the premature problem of the conventional selection scheme of genetic algorithm. The
purpose of adjusting  of crossover scheme is to determine the exploratory or exploitative
degree of various subpopulations. The appropriate rule curve searched by a RGA can minimize the
water deficit and maintain the high water level of the reservoir. The results also show that the most
promising RGA for this problem consists of these revised operators significantly improves the
performance of a system; it is also very efficient for optimizing other highly nonlinear systems.
Key Words: long-term reservoir operation, real-coded genetic algorithm, rule curves,
macro-evolutionary selection, blend-crossover.
2lead to effective operating policies. Chang and Chen (1988) applied real-coded GA for rule-based
flood control reservoir management. The results show that the real-coded GA perform better in
terms of efficiency and precision than the binary-coded GA. Wardlaw and Sharif (1999)
demonstrated that using GAs can provide a robust and acceptable solutions for a four reservoir
deterministic problem. Further, they could acquire the known global optimum. Sharif and Wardlaw
(2000) presented multi-reservoir systems optimization using GAs. They compared with discrete
differential dynamic programming (DDDP) that GA results are very close to the optimum, and the
technique appears to be robust.
The need for solving optimization problems arises in almost every field. As a consequence,
many analytic and numerical optimization techniques have been developed. However there exist a
great number of functions, such as discontinuous, non-differentiable, non-convex, or multi-modal
functions, which are beyond analytical methods and present profound difficulties for numerical
techniques. Moreover, traditional optimization techniques depend highly on a deterministic
relationship between the model's parameters and its performance. To date, these techniques have
been unable to optimize the performance of complex systems. Consequently, new and more robust
optimization techniques capable of handling such problems are needed.
Recently, there has been an increasing interest in solving optimization problems. The genetic
algorithm (GA) is one of the most promising techniques in that domain and has received a great
deal of attention regarding optimizing complex systems. The GA is essentially a Darwinian natural
selection process, which combines an artificial survival of the fittest with natural genetic operators
(Holland, 1975). Through the genetic evolution method, an optimal solution can be found and
represented by the final winner of the genetic evolution.
The GA is an iterative procedure, which maintains a population of individuals that are
candidate solutions to specific domain. During each generation, the individuals in the current
population are rated for their effective evaluations, and a new population of candidate solutions is
formed using specific genetic operators such as reproduction, crossover, and mutation
(Grefenstette, 1986). Then, Goldberg (1989) and Davis (1991) reviewed many important
applications of GAs.
According to several previous works, real-coded genetic algorighm (RGA) has several
advantages over binary coded GAs (Wright, 1991; Eshelman and Schaffer, 1992). The
reproduction operator may be implemented in algorithmic form in a number of ways, such as
Roulette Selection (Goldberg 1989), Tournament Selection (Goldberg and Deb 1991, Chen 2003a)
and Macro-Evolutionary (ME) Selection (Marin and Sole 1999). There are three famous methods
for implementing the crossover scheme: Linear Crossover (Wright, 1991), Flat Crossover
(Radcliffe, 1990) and BLX-0.5 Crossover (Eshelman and Schaffer, 1992).
4. 研究方法
The area of study is Fei-Tsui reservoir, which was completed over 16 years, and the proposed
water treatment plant Kan-Yuan, which will be installed in the year, 2021. The purpose of this
paper is to demonstrate application of the RGA approach in the optimization of the rule curves of
this reservoir.
4X7>X8> MINlevel
1≦X9<X10<X11<X12≦36
MAXlevel>X1>X7
165>X2>X8>MINlevel
where MAXlevel = 170 (meter)
MINlevel = 117.5 (meter)
The coding of parameters may vary according to the nature of the problem itself. An
appropriate number of parameters, 12, that could describe the whole decision space are presented
in this paper.
4.4 Objective Function
The main consideration of objective function of the optimization model is to minimizing the
deficit of water supply for different purposes. As a consequence, the shortage index (SI) proposed
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer could reflect the severity of the water shortage. This SI for the
ten-day periods is defined as follows:
2
1 tperiodtheforsupplywaterDesigned
tperiodtheindeficitWater100



 

N
tN
SI
where t is the operating time step of Fei-Tsui in ten-day.
N is the total number of time steps, N = 41 *36 = 1476 in this study.
4.5 Experiments of RGA
The entire procedure of this study includes two parts: the simulation model and the
optimization model. Combining these two parts to search the best set of rule curves is a very
important task. The optimization model using RGA could generate a set of rule curves, i.e. 12
decision variables. Whereas the simulation model programming could use these decision variables
to calculate their fitness function values. The repetition of these two steps is necessary to produce
the required number of generations.
Two experimental procedures for choosing the proper selection and crossover schemes were:
three selection schemes: ME, roulette and tournament, and three crossover schemes: linear, flat and
BLX-0.5.
5. 結果與討論
The experimental results show that the RGA converges quickly and reaches an optimal
solution, where the objective value is close to the theoretical minimum point. Several experiments
were discussed that when the ME selection and BLX-0.5 crossover could obtain the best results.
Although the results of ME selection were not good at the beginning, it was shown that its
results became better than the other two selection schemes finally (See Fig. 3). In standard GA, the
selection operator like roulette selection chooses individuals with a probability proportional to
6means of determining the decision parameters that could represent a set of rule curves were
considered. The results show that the release could optimize the objective function for a specified
inflow and initial storage level.
7. 計畫成果自評
In this study, solutions very close to the optimum were achieved within 200 generations with
a population of 100. A real-value representation, incorporating ME selection and BLX-0.5
crossover, is concluded to produce the best results. The new rule curve, optimized by RGA, can
maintain a higher water level of the reservoir and a lower water deficit than could the original rule
curve.
The method is not limited by the type of the objective function. In contrast to various
conventional optimization algorithms, the objective function need not be differentiable or
continuous. Since the GA uses a simulation model to evaluate each generated rule curve, no
restrictions apply to the definition of the operating policy. Besides, a significant advantage of the
GA approach is that no initial trial release policy must be imposed. The algorithm used herein of
parallel structures, which may help to reduce the number of computations and evaluations.
8. References
1. Chang, F. J. and Chen, L., 1998. Real-coded genetic algorithm for rule-based flood control
reservoir management, Water Resources Management 12, 185-198.
2. Chen, L., 2003a. A Study of Applying Genetic Programming to Reservoir Trophic State
Evaluation Using Remote Sensor Data, International Journal of Remote Sensing, Vol. 24, No.
11, 2265-2275.
3. Chen, L., 2003b. A Real-coded Hyper-cubic Distributed Genetic Algorithm Applied to
Multi-Reservoir Operation during Drought, unpublished.
4. Davis, L., 1991. Hybridization and numerical representation, Handbook of Genetic
Algorithms, edited by L. Davis, Van Nostrand Reinhold, N.K., 61-71.
5. Esat, V., and Hall, M. J., 1994. Water resources system optimization using genetic
algorithms, in Proc. of the 1st Int. Conf., On Hydroinformatics, Balkema, Rotterdam, The
Netherlands, 225-231.
6. Eshelman, L. J., andSchaffer, J. D., 1992. Real-coded genetic algorithms and
interval-schemata, in Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Genetic
Algorithms, Morgan Kaufmann, San Mateo, Calif., 187-202.
7. Goldberg, D. E., 1989. Genetic algorithms in search, optimization and machine learning,
Addison Wesley, Reading, MA.
8. Goldberg, D. E., and Deb, K., 1991. A comparative analysis of selection schemes used in
genetic algorithms, in G. Rawlins, ed., Foundations of Genetic algorithms, Morgan
Kaufmann, 69-93.
9. Grefenstette, J. J., 1986. Optimization of control parameters for genetic algorithms, IEEE
Transactions on System, Man, and Cybernetics, SMC-16(1),122-128.
10. Holland, J. H., 1975. Adaptation in natural and artificial systems, Ann Arbor, MI., The
8Figure 2. The Definition of All Decision Variables on the Original Rule Curves of Fei-Tsui
Reservoir (see Table 1)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
*10 Generations
O
bj
ec
tiv
e
V
al
ue
s
ME
Tournament
Roulette
Figure 3. A Comparison of the On-line Performances for Different Selection Methods
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20
*10 Generations
O
bj
ec
tiv
e
V
al
ue
s
BLX-0.5
Linear
Flat
Figure 4. A Comparison of the On-line Performances for Different Crossover Schemes
