的開發、地方文化產業的發展、及文化藝術產
業的個案研究等，對於此興新產業的建構模式
論述較少。而產業的建構良莠，直接關係其經
營成敗與否，良好的建構體質，有助於持續發
展經營，不良的建構體質，會浪費投入的資源
與人力。 
本研究主題將文化視為技術的核心，好比
IT 產業的高科技技術，探討此核心內容與價
值，核心價值正確，產業形成與發展機會較
大。故經由探討文化的核心關鍵因素開始，嘗
試建構此創意產業的模式，分析文化創意產業
是如何形成與建構的、建構的要素與相互間的
關係，試圖提出可供參考的模式，以減少失敗
的機率。並探討發展、複合、轉型及永續等是
否存在可供借鏡的模式，為此計畫持續研究的
主要關鍵議題。 
 
三、研究理論架構與成果 
1.以文化為核心的理論探討 
(1)定義以文化為核心的構成元素 
文化創意產業的原料是「文化的元素」，
根據英國人類學家泰勒對文化所下的定義：
「文化或文明，就其廣泛的民族學意義來講，
是一複合整體，包括知識、信仰、藝術、道德、
法律、習俗以及作為一個社會成員的人所習得
的其他一切能力和習慣。」美國社會學家戴維
波普諾認為：「文化是人類群體或社會的共用
成果，這些共有產物不僅包括價值觀、語言、
知識，而且包括物質對象。」在中國式文化觀
底下的所謂「文化」有三大特點：自覺性、精
神性、價值性。據此本研究提出文化核心的構
成元素由外而內、由大而小、由自然到人文
等，分為自然文化、社會文化、人文化成等三
大面向。 
自然文化面以山川河岳等由自然資源的
累積而來，其存在的實體經過時間的淬練已有
固定的型式。社會文化面以生活經驗的累積而
來，例如道德、法律、制度、宗教、信仰、風
俗、習慣等，是以無形的規範而存在。人文化
成面是以人為主的不斷創造而來，例如歷史古
蹟、歷史文物、語言、知識、文學、音樂、藝
術、舞蹈、戲劇等，其存在有實體（例如藝術
品、繪畫、工藝等）、有虛體（例如語言、知
識）、有載體（例如音樂、戲劇、舞蹈等，以
人的表演形式而存在）等不同的形式。 
 
(2)定義以文化為核心之創意產業 
關於文化的定義，到目前為止已多達 200
多種的定義。本研究不探討文化現象，僅就以
文化的核心，尋求運用於創意產業的關鍵因素
加以探討。至於文化產業與創意產業的關係，
新加坡提出：「文化是創意的基礎與平台，是
創意產業價值鏈的上游，文化提供創意所需素
材（the raw material），而創意是激發想像
創造的能力或力量（The power of thinking 
and ideas）」。從廣義的角度看，創意產業涵
蓋了文化產業、內容產業、具高創新度、高科
技產業等大多數行業。故本研究以文化為核心
之創意產業範圍的定義為除包涵文化產業
外，也包含一切以文化為核心的創意活動。 
 
2.操作介面之理論探討 
(1)定義操作型架構鏈表 
藉由產業鏈架構的投入、運作與產出，將
本研究之架構鏈表定義為資源面、操作面、產
出面，並根據政府「文化創意產業推動組織」
對文化創意產業定義為：「源自創意或文化積
累，透過智慧財產的形成與運用，具有創造財
富與就業機會潛力，並促進整體生活環境提升
的行業。」藉此定義文化創意產業架構鏈表之
資源面為「創意或文化積累」，操作面為「透
過智慧財產的形成與運用」，產出面為「具有
創造財富與就業機會潛力，並促進整體生活環
境提升的行業」。 
 
 (2)創意產業的變化因子~~多 P的操作介面 
行銷學有所謂的 4P，即是 Product、 
Price、Place、Promotion，Product 是商品
開發或尋找、Price 是訂價的方法、Place 是
銷售通路、Promotion 是促銷。繼行銷 4P 之
後就有人提出行銷 5P，這主要是針對服務業
的員工 People。在 5P 之後，又多了 Power, 
Public relations，另有行銷 7P，就是除了
行銷4P外再加上 People、Process，而 Process
就是整個流程。 
行銷 STP 中市場區隔化 Segmentation、
選擇目標市場 Market Targeting、市場定位
Positioning。以消費者為觀點決定之行銷
4C，分別為顧客需求 Customer、顧客成本 Cost 
to the customer、便利 Convenience 與溝通
Communication。周延鵬之「智慧財產行銷的
6P 要素」提出所謂的智慧財產行銷 6P 概念，
其中 6P 分別為優質人才 People、 產業定位
Positioning、具體呈現 Physical Evidence、
價值主張 Proposition、營運流程 Process 與
關係網絡 Public Relation。 
根據經濟部文化創意產業推動小組在
2003 年對文化創意產業之範疇所做的說明，
創意生活產業是指：「凡從事以創意整合生活
產業之核心知識，提供具有深度體驗及高質美
感之產業」。其中 S2P2「產品」、「場所」、「服
務」與「活動」為四個必備要素。 
根據行銷學及創意生活產業要素，建立以
文化為核心的創意產業變化因子，此變化因子
可決定操作的介面，稱為「多 P的操作介面」。
將運作的機制包含於內，如此，當文化核心元
可界定其不同的產出，各自獨立，卻也相互關
聯。例如人文化成面以人為主的操作模式，可
以操作藝術家，提升其知名度，也可以操作藝
術家的藝術品，提升其藝術品的價值，其互為
表裡、相互牽連，最終以創造整體文創產業的
經濟價值為主。故多 P的操作策略，可提供操
作面向的複雜網路及多元的操作模型。 
 
四、研究結論與建議 
本研究建構以文化為核心的創意產業模
式為主，界定此文化核心之構成元素及創意產
業形成模式。透過文獻探討、實地調查與深度
訪談，架構此一系統的模組原型。此研究有助
於釐清文化主體與各面向間的互動關係。所建
構的文化創意產業模式，可用來檢視當下台灣
文創產業的體質，亦有助於發展中或即將發展
的文創產業建構之參考。本研究綜合結論如
下： 
(一)以文化為核心的涵構元素： 
本計畫提出在創意產業中，文化核心元素
定義為投入的資源面，此資源面之三大文化核
心因素為自然文化、社會文化、人文化成。自
然文化面是由自然資源累積而來，其存在的實
體經過時間的淬練已有固定的型式。社會文化
面以生活經驗的累積而來，是以無形的規範而
存在。人文化成面是以人為主的不斷創造而
來，其存在有實體、有虛體、有載體等不同的
形式。而此文化元素所建構的創意產業之價值
評估為其文化的豐富性、獨特性及文化力。 
(二)以文化為核心的創意產業模式建構： 
透過文獻探討、產業觀察、個案研究與專
家訪談，建立創意產業三大構面：資源面、操
作面、產出面，資源構面有自然文化、社會文
化、人文化成；操作構面有多 P 的操作策略；
產出構面有 5W1H 之產出模式。此三構面建構
的創意產業，形成多重路徑的網絡結構，建立
以文化為核心的創意產業模式原型。 
(三)各構面間互動關係探討： 
本研究除建構以文化為核心的創意產業
模式原型外，更能透過此網絡架構，對各構面
的互動關係及各關鍵節點的擺盪原因與成敗
要素之深入研究。完整架構此興新產業的模
式，除可探討目前的產業價值外，更可供後續
探討發展、複合、轉型及永續等議題。因此建
議未來研究將可針對文創產業之當下與未來
進行整體產業價值評析。 
 
五、研究成果自評 
本研究藉由資料研究與分析，明確建構了
以文化為核心的創意產業模式架構圖，並針對
其資源面、操作面、產出面分別架構其相互關
係與評價方法，對此文創產業之整體架構與經
濟模式探討，提供了相關的基礎研究，可做為
台灣未來文創產業架構模式與價值評估的參
考。此研究成果綜合評估如下： 
1.建構以文化為核心的創意產業模式架構及
相互關係評估的研究基礎。 
2.評析文化核心元素的意涵及價值分析。 
3.提出文化資源面與價值操作面的互動模式
關係，定義其交互關係的特質與產出。 
 
六、參考文獻 
1. 文建會，2004，二○○三年台灣文化創意
產業發展年報，台北：行政院文化建設委
員會。 
2. 何明泉、林其祥、劉怡君，1996，文化商
品開發設計之構思，中華民國設計學會，
設計學報，Vol. 1,No. 1,pp. 1-15。 
3. 吳思華, 2005, 文化創意的產業化思維
(上)，典藏今藝術，第 136期，頁 114-117。 
4. 約瑟夫派恩、詹姆斯吉摩爾，2003，體驗
經濟時代，經濟新潮社，台北，pp58-63、
p271。 
5. 區域文化創意產業資源與現況調查台南
區塊成果報告書，2005，財團法人成大發
展研究基金會，文建會中部辦公室。 
6. Porter, M. E., Competitive Strategy: 
Techniques for Analyzing Industries 
and Competitors, New York: Free Press, 
1980.  
7. Shahid Yusuf , Kaoru Nabeshima, 2005, 
Creative industries in East Asia, 
Cities, Vol.22, No. 2, p.109-122 
 2 
摘要: 
 此次『第七屆國際人文新趨勢研討會』主要在探討一直以經濟及科學技術掛
帥之邏輯思維的智能與社會環境下，未來人文領域發展有那些新方向？同時探究
人文思維、研究與教學之特質及其重要意義。經過七年的努力，該研討會已經成
為人文領域研究/教育新構想與實務操作關注之焦點。除了研討會之外論文亦出
版於 www.Humanities-Journal.com之網頁，主要是創造新的知識社群形態，提供
面對面的互動交流之外亦可透過數位媒體科技進行溝通聯繫。研討會主要分為演
講，對話、發表、討論與工作坊之形式，議程進行非常順暢，交流溝通效果佳。
研討會中探索議題非常豐富，與會者皆熱烈參與討論，從其中獲取相當多訊息、
知識與啟發，對未來研究方向之擬定有重大之助益。 
 
 
專題演講 
 
發表論文: 
1. A Study of the Communication in a Cultural and Creative Design Team 
Ming-Chyuan Ho, Ya-Chieh Lee 
 
2. The Cultural Identity of Image Design: with Olympic Games as Example 
Ya-Chieh Lee , Ming-Chyuan Ho  
 
 4 
 全球化 
 民族學、差異、認同/識別 
 移民、難民、種族、國家 
 原住民 
 性別、家庭 
 宗教、精神性 
 虛擬空間、科技 
 科學、環境與人文 
 
 
專題演講 
 
心得： 
 在以科學及科技掛帥的時代，對於人、人性及與其他生物整個生態的關注，
往往較容易被疏忽，而此類較全方位議題之關心與探討，讓不同領域的人聚集在
一起，交換研究心得，彼此相互激盪、啟發，獲益非常大，真不虛此行。 
 設計思維的轉變，隨著科技發展、社會趨勢及世界潮流的演變，已產生巨大
之變化，從實務演練、教育訓練、學術研究到國家政策，設計扮演更重要之角色，
尤其在核心能力之培養與核心價值之創造，絕對是不可或缺的原動力。 
 
建議事項： 
1. 可以考慮爭取在台灣舉辦此國際會議，增進國際學術交流 
2. 設計領域研究應更關注全世界之主流議題 
3. 設計研究與教育宜更加強跨領域、全方位之探索 
4. 更積極鼓勵跨領域之研究 
5. 推動以人為核心（human-centered）之前瞻研究 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
Introduction 
Reaching a consensus image of new product requires the design team to incessantly 
conduct conceptual communication. These transmission and transformation of 
conceptual model depend on the communication skills among the design team 
members. Nowadays, the industries have witnessed that knowledge is the most 
significant competitiveness as the world has evolved into the new era of knowledge 
economy. In order to create seamless product design process, the enterprise must 
manage regular meetings with the design team, which is in charge of product 
development, to share concept, discuss the work consensus, and finally integrate the 
mental image for the new product.   
Based on the perspective of cultural creative industry, products are creatively 
embedded with cultural elements to prevent culture decline. Whilst the rapid growth 
of the market makes competition much tougher followed by the declining technical 
differentiation, making research and development (R&D) even more crucial, in which 
conceptual model building and sharing plays important role to create sustainable 
cultural products.    
Aside from fundamental understanding of a certain culture, effective 
communication among design team members is significant to integrate individual 
concept into organizational assets. It is obvious that the cultural design is mainly 
inspired by the culture itself. But cultural innovation should be transformed into a 
design accepted by consumers from the same or completely different cultures. 
Designers, managers, manufacturers, marketing managers should possess common 
ground concept on the product image of their company which can be established 
through effective communication and integration. This research investigates the 
communication process and gap among organization members who have different 
cultural preferences and understandings.  
1. Research subject and research objectives 
The research subject is the “Dragonfly Beads Art Studio,” which consists of 32 
Paiwan people, aboriginal tribe of Taiwan, who is active in creating traditional 
products based on hand-made colourful glass beads such as accessories and interior 
 8 
research investigates the existing key factors—channels, media, contents, and 
networks－for effective communication which vary depending on the characteristics 
of the design team. Teng (1999) proposed four most influential factors in the design 
communication, which are the organizational structure, design project, design process, 
and the design team involved. 
In the process of transforming the design into a real product, the designer should 
maintain harmonious communication with the design team, managers, manufacturers, 
engineers, and marketing division to avoid failures in the product design, 
manufacturing, and sales. Therefore, designers should have clear picture of the new 
product—definition, goal, meaning, clear market strategy, overall and systematic 
planning. Furthermore, they also should serve multi-roles as mediator of the 
communication who can acquire, convert and implement knowledge from each 
division into their design. 
3. Affected factors of conceptual communication in design 
Design requires conceptual communication due to the ever-changing global trend 
of the 21st century. Based on the perspective of design communication, the 
international economy is highly affected by the following: 
1. Market competition 
In recent 20 years, design industry has gradually become the most potential 
industry and started collaborating with experts and enterprises. Design industry 
faces intense competitions against both local and international enterprises to gain 
profit and develop international market.  
2. Customer-oriented trends 
Nowadays design trend has already become customer oriented paying attention 
on tastes, preferences and demands based on market researches as important 
references for new product development which can satisfy the market and 
customers, as well as fit the corporate concept and product identity. Designers’ 
knowledge is not enough, yet interdisciplinary collaborations should be 
 10 
decision-making on the perfect strategy to cope with the dynamic market. Conceptual 
harmony conversion aims to integrate knowledge creation, organizational learning, 
redevelopment, design concept accumulation and conversion for higher level of 
design innovation. 
4. The Barrier of Communication in the Design Concept Learning and 
Integration 
A design team in the enterprise is formed based on the business scale, organizational 
culture, divisions, professional skills, and numbers of people in the team. Therefore, 
problems in communication of design concept likely to occur are as follows:  
1. During the conceptual model integration such as technology and management 
concept, verbal or written communications are feasible. But it is extremely difficult 
to externalize the creative process of a designer through oral or written descriptions. 
The key factor to build a well communication channel of design concept or 
originality is through a long-term field observation on how the design project 
leaders work on their duties and build trust among the design team. 
2. Creating thinking sharing in an organization culture is not easy. Design is a creative 
work, not a manual labor. Design experience and skills are the key success factors 
for a company. In the era of global design industry, the workflow of designer is 
high which makes it difficult for a company to manage constant and effective 
concept sharing. On the other hand, when an originality owner is afraid of losing 
competitive advantage, certain strategies－project allocation, technical 
segmentation, restricted communication access－will be strictly applied to secure 
important concept (Cheng, Kuo, Lin, and Hsu, 2007). Therefore, the higher the 
protection level, the less the learner can acquire knowledge. Basically, if the 
enterprise wants to establish prototypal concept sharing as the organizational 
culture, trustworthiness among the design team members is even more important.  
3.  Backgrounds of design team members  
Understanding towards the culture reflected in the product influences the 
 12 
to conceptualize and analyze. The results of the in-depth interviews are summarized in 
Table 1: 
Table1. The dimensions discussed by the cultural product design team during the 
prototypal concept and image communication 
Axial coding Secondary 
Category  
Concept of interviewees 
Colourful glass beads have always been the 
core of tradition in Paiwan tribe  
No matter what product they design, the 
glass beads must embed with the inherited 
design and style 
Core value 
Designers are obliged to have thorough 
understanding on the meanings of symbols 
and making process of the glass beads 
Observation on the design and making 
process of senior members 
Senior designers or project leaders are in 
charge of advising new artisans 
The artisans can be non-design or non-art 
backgrounds; therefore, they can share 
opinions and discuss formally or informally  
Design prototypal 
concept  
communication 
and learning 
Observations and learning from other design 
studios during the design exhibitions are 
beneficial for studying different materials 
and combinations of glass beads 
The studio members should be of Paiwan 
heritage people 
Establishing design studio is an important 
concept of survival based on the spiritual 
bond and respect, because the key success 
factor of a design studio lies on each staff’s 
subsistence  
Knowledge 
conversion 
Establishing team 
integrity  
The team always understands and 
appreciates the artworks as the 
crystallization of Paiwan tribe’s life, 
knowledge and history 
 14 
Artisan 1 Artisan 2 Artisan 3 
Manager and overall resource 
planning 
Designer Manager (Principal Designer) 
Market campaign and 
research 
New design project 
There are some artisans who quitted the job 
and became monks which may lead to 
disparity between the design and the quality 
of final product  
Salespersons sometimes are unable to 
describe customers’ ideas, therefore 
designers always need to elicit them  
Project manager always has the most 
influential opinions towards the new 
product, therefore sometimes they limit the 
designers’ creative imagination and thinking 
Product design 
strategy 
Market scale and order always decide the 
types and quantity of products to be 
manufactured 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on the results above, the procedure of generic concept communication and 
integration for developing new product is illustrated in Fig.2.  
 
 
 
 16 
5. Sales and orders of the products affect the creativity level in the cultural product 
design  
  
Conclusions 
In recent years, Taiwan’s design industry has developed tremendously and gradually 
become the core competitiveness in the international market. Thomas (1993) assumed 
that the higher the frequency of inter-division or hierarchical communication, the 
faster the decision making process will take, the enterprise is highly more likely to 
prefer technological innovation, and there will be higher chance for organizational 
members to participate in the decision-making process and solve complex product 
development. Therefore, it can be found that creating communication channels for 
different divisions is crucial to keep new product development process smooth. Based 
on the in-depth interviews with the research subjects, the conclusions are as follows:  
1. Conceptual model integration as key procedure for creating deep cultural design 
contents 
The core value of cultural design industry is the culture conveyed through the 
products. During the communication process of a culture, originality should be 
maintained and it is unnecessary to captivate customers in superficial ways. The 
cultural design team understands well that professionally thorough research is the 
only way to embed the products with the appropriate cultural contents, which is 
highly influenced by conceptual transmission and collaboration. Therefore, 
enterprises focusing on the cultural design industry should establish a creative 
concept and product image communication system that includes traditional 
institutions, regulations, conventional and creative technology, innovative and 
creative thinking, and so on. 
2. Communication as generic concept integration and converter  
 18 
4. Lacking of professional design skills affects sense of aesthetics and practical ability 
of new products 
Just like other design teams in general enterprises, a cultural design team also 
consists of people from different backgrounds with various expertise. These 
people will work together to develop a new product. However, the Dragonfly 
Beads Art Studio differs from other cultural craft design enterprises. The artisans 
usually lack of professional design background and are not familiar with the 
traditional making process of the coloured glass beads, which leads to lack of 
aesthetics and unsatisfactory quality even though the Paiwan aboriginal patterns 
are engraved. Therefore, the enterprise should rely on team members’ selflessness 
in order to support inadequate manufacturing techniques.  
Organizational operations become more complicated along with the business 
scale. Design experts are expected to be in the enterprise to expand its market 
competitiveness. However, the relationships among staff become much more 
hierarchical and distant. If there were miscommunications, overspecification and 
complexification of the organization will only hinder the development. Hence, the 
more complicated the design environment, the better communication the 
enterprise will need to improve its design competence.  
 
References 
A, K, Gupta., S, P, Raj. and D, L,Wilemon. "The R&D Marketing Interface in High 
Technology Firms." Journal of Product Innovation Management, Vol.2, 
No.1(1985):12-24. 
C, Teng. Design management: Organization, Communication and Operation of 
Product Design. Taipei: Asiapacbooks, 1999. 
D, JIANG. and R, XIE. "A Study of The Relationship Between Technological 
Capabilities, Organizational Characteristics, and New Product Development 
Performance -Base on The Textile Industry in Taiwan." Commerce & 
 20 
The Cultural Identity of Image Design, with Olympic Games as Example 
Ya-Chieh Lee , Ming-Chyuan Ho  
National Yunlin University of Science & Technology 
123. Sec 3, University Rd. Douliu, Yunlin, Taiwan 
leeyeajye@yahoo.com.tw, homc@yuntech.edu.tw 
Abstract 
In an international event such as Olympic Games, emblem design is a crucial image 
factor as it not only conveys rich information, but also expresses the vision and 
culture of the host country. The integration between internationalization and 
localization in the design has been the recent focus of the host countries of Olympic 
Games. For the emblem design, it has to be able to deliver a universal message for the 
whole world, as well as demonstrate host country’s culture as unique identity. This 
study applies Likert Scale for questionnaire survey and feedback interview for 
collecting the data. There are total of 66 subjects with the following details: half from 
design and non-design background; 31 male and 35 female subjects; and they possess 
various education levels of undergraduate, graduate and above. 
This research attempts to gain deeper understanding from the subjects on the culture 
in icon recognition of each emblem designs from five consecutive Olympics since the 
1992 until 2008—Barcelona, Atlanta, Sydney, Athens and Beijing—based on the 
following five criteria: whether it is capable of representing the Olympic Games, 
closely associated to the host country and its national culture and characteristics, as 
well as equipped with function of culture recognition. These five criteria explore 
whether the subjects possess different level of abilities in communicating and 
recognizing the cultural identity.  
The results show that gender does not affect the way people recognize culture in those 
Olympic emblems. On the other hand, the educational backgrounds of the subjects 
show significant results. The ones with design background express that Beijing 
Olympic’s emblem design possesses significant differences regarding to its 
representativeness towards the event, host country’s national characteristics and 
culture recognition. Non-design background subjects show that they are unable to 
differentiate the five criteria in the five Olympic emblem designs provided.  
Therefore, it is concluded that design training has certain influence towards 
recognizing cultural icons. Furthermore, the results also show that Beijing Olympics 
emblem design is the most capable of representing host country’s cultural identity, 
whilst Barcelona’s emblem design is the least capable of cultural recognition. 
Keywords: Olympic Games, Emblem design, Cultural identity and communication 
 22 
 
 
 
 
 
1992/Spain/ 
Barcelona 
1996/Americ
a/Atlanta 
2000/Australia
/Sidney 
2004/Greece/Ath
ens 
2008/China/ 
Beijing 
 
The research purposes: 
(1) The connection of the five Olympic emblems and the host countries from 1992 to 
2008. 
(2) The identifying level of unique cultural image that the Olympic emblems have. 
(3) The difference in the cultural identity of the Olympic emblems for viewers of 
different genders and from design / non-design backgrounds. 
 
2. Literature review 
2.1 The meaning of cultural image design 
Using cultural image design for product brand or enterprise brand is aimed at creating 
the most impressive image and the uniqueness of the product or the enterprise. In 
other words, the consumers have a market map in their mind when they have needs. 
From the view of enterprise identity, 
the design elements of the Olympic 
emblems are important media to 
convey the spirit and cultural 
uniqueness of the host country. 
Successful design can manifest the 
cultural characteristics and unique 
value for viewers all over the world 
to define the cultural identity, cultural image, national power, and the vision of the 
host country (see fig.1). The Olympic emblems from 1936 are analyzed, and those 
from 1992 to 2004 are the period of cultural allusions. It is related to the trend of 
postmodern graphic design at that time; in addition, it means that the identity design 
has been emphasized from the 90s. 
Table1. The analysis of the Olympic emblems from 1992 to 2004 
Year/Country/City Characteristic Origin 
1992/Spain/Barcelona romantic, elegant, free, 
simple and clear soft pen 
technique 
Latin culture, Joan Miro’s 
abstracts 
Fig.1 The relationship of cultural identity and image 
Uniqueness 
Value 
Culture 
Image Identity 
 24 
2. Chosen items are tested. 
 
A good Olympic emblem not only has excellent design, but also can convey the 
culture to highlight its value. The Olympic emblem design from 1992 has been 
hand-painted design with local art and culture. Therefore, the theme of the study is 
five Olympic emblems from 1992 to 2008. 
 
3.2 Sampling method and the backgrounds of the subjects 
1. Purpose sampling is used in the study. 
2. The subjects are divided into two groups. The number of those with “design 
background” is 33, and the one of those with “non-design background” is 33. The 
total number is 66. The subjects with design background are sophomore and 
junior students majoring in architecture and interior design. On the other hand, 
those with non-design background never receive any relevant training. 
 
3.3 Test time 
The three tests needs 20 to 30 minutes for one single subject. 
 
3.4 Test stages 
Stage one: The study is aimed at the correctness for the subjects’ cultural identity of 
the Olympic emblem design. In the questionnaire using Likert five-point scale, the 
words and the logo of five Olympic rings are removed to avoid affecting the subjects’ 
answers (see table 2). After the survey, 16 subjects are randomly chosen for interview 
to know their thoughts. 
Table 2、Olympic emblems without city names of host countries and illustration  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stage two: The level of cultural identity for the five Olympic emblems is measured. 
The subjects need to fill in the correct country and city names of the five Olympic 
emblems. The study surveys their cultural and image identity for the Olympic emblem 
design from 1992 to 2008. 
Stage three: The answers of the subjects with different genders and backgrounds 
are compared to know the difference of their national identity for the five Olympic 
emblems. 
 
 26 
provided for subjects to know their level of cultural identity for the five Olympic 
emblems from 1992 to 2008. Likert five-point scale is used to collect the following 
data: the representiveness of the Olympic emblems, the connection between the 
Olympic emblems and the host countries, the local characteristics of the host 
countries that the Olympic emblems display, and the cultural elements of the host 
countries that the Olympic emblems possess. Descriptive statistics is used to compare 
the average and the standard deviation of each item. 
The results are: 
1. The subjects think that Atlanta Olympic emblem can display the spirit of Olympic 
Games. The averages from high to low are Atlanta, Sidney, Athena, Barcelona, 
and Beijing. 
2. The subjects think that Beijing and Athena emblems can create the connection 
with the host countries. 
3. In the item “the local characteristics of the host countries that the Olympic 
emblems display”, the subjects think that Beijing, Athena, and Sidney emblems 
get higher scores. The reasons are as the same as those in stage one. 
4. In the item “the cultural elements of the host countries that the Olympic emblems 
possess”, the subjects think that Beijing and Athena emblems contain the cultural 
elements of the host countries. 
As a whole, Beijing and Athena emblems get more positive comments in cultural 
identity; on the other hand, the cultural identity in Barcelona emblem is the lowest. 
 
4.3 The comparison of cultural identity between different genders and backgrounds 
4.3.1 Significance analysis of cultural identity for Olympic emblems between genders 
To discuss the significant differences between “representiveness”, “connection”, 
“local characteristics”, and “cultural elements of the host countries” in the cultural 
identity of the five Olympic emblems, independent-samples T test is employed for 
significance test. The result shows that there are no significant differences in these 
four items between genders. 
 
4.3.2 Significance analysis of cultural identity for Olympic emblems between 
different backgrounds 
To discuss if subjects with different backgrounds have different cultural identity, T 
test is used for subjects with design and non-design backgrounds to know their 
cultural identity for the five Olympic emblems. 
The results are: 
In the item “the representiveness of the Olympic emblems”, there are significant 
differences for subjects with different background in Atlanta and Beijing Olympic 
 28 
local characteristics of the host countries that the Olympic emblems display” of 
Beijing and Atlanta Olympic emblems. But there are significant differences in the 
other items between subjects with different backgrounds. 
4. As a whole, in the cultural identity of the five Olympic emblems, Beijing Olympic 
emblem is the most successful design, but the cultural identity of Barcelona 
Olympic emblem is the lowest. 
The suggestions are: 
1. At the first stage of the survey, some subjects deleted the inappropriate items 
when answering the questionnaire, which may affect the correct recognition rate. 
Therefore, the researcher can put one single picture on powerpoint or computer 
screen for the subjects. 
2. The sampling may affect the study result. The subjects with design background 
can be those majoring in different departments, like visual communication or 
product design and so on. Besides, other variables like age and educational level 
should be controlled strictly. 
 
References 
C, Barker. Cultural Studies－Theory and Practice. London: Sage Publications, 2003. 
C. C., Chen. Statistics in behavior and Social Sciences.Taipei: Liwen Publishing 
Group, 2004. 
J. H., Chen., W. X., Zhou., Y. Q., Huang. and X. L., Wu., “A Study of Visual Image in 
Selected Sport Items.” Taichung: The Journal of Commercial Design, Vol. 7, 
(2003): 343-363. 
J. H., Chen., and D. M., Yang., Introduction to visual Communication Design, Taipei: 
OpenTech Bookstore. 2001:102-105. 
J. P., Chen. Elements of Chinese character in Sign Design. Zhuangshi magazine. Vol,3. 
(2005): 125-126. 
J, Fiske. Introduction to Communication Studies :Edition 2, Routledge revised, 2002. 
H.J.G., Zwaga. and R.S, Easterby. "Developing Effective symbols for Public 
Information," In R.S. Easterby and H.J.G. Zwaga· (Eds.), Information Design. 
Chichester: Wiley(l984): 277-297. 
International Olympic Committee. available at:http://www.olympic.org/(accessed 26 
August 2008) 
G, Julier. “From Visual Culture to Design Culture”. Design Issues, Vol. 22, No. 1 
(Winter 2006) 
