(二) 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞： 
 
微流體技術近年來快速發展，其在醫學檢測分析等領域之應用，更是尤其顯著。各式
各樣的微小化元件所建立之系統，不斷被整合在單一生物晶片中。可藉由微流體技術針對
生物檢體進行快速分析，同時微型化系統並兼具體積小及靈敏度高之優勢，因此受到全球
生物科技產業的青睞，每年都投入大量人力及財力在此領域。微流體生醫檢測晶片藉由微
機電製程技術，具有許多優點，如高檢測靈敏度、體積小便於攜帶、成本低、可拋棄式設
計、低樣品及檢體消耗量。其中最具市場發展潛力為整合型微流體生化分析系統，可藉由
不同元件整合於同一晶片上之，僅需少量檢體即可進行檢測。相對於傳統大型儀器，分析
時間上更為快速且準確。以光電元件為基礎的材料，隨著近幾年人們對於能源及顯示科技
的重視，正廣泛地被研究，其中又以高分子材料最具有價格競爭優勢，並兼具可大量製造
的可行性。本研究開發的光介電泳晶片，有別於傳統介電泳操控必須利用金屬薄膜及黃光
製程，來定義出電極，解決了傳統方式的缺點：1.電極製程複雜。必須利用半導體製程技
術之黃光、微影、沈積金屬及蝕刻等製程，方能製作出一個可用的電極。2.更改電極設計
複雜。由於使用半導體製程技術製作，因此欲改變電極設計，必須從光罩設計改起，進而
所有製程從新製作一遍，相當耗時且花費成本。3.位置固定不能任意移動。傳統以半導體
製程製作的電極，位置就固定在導線設計的位置，不具有任意定位的功能。本計畫發展出
的系統，其位置可藉由投影機來做任意位置的定位。因此開發此種新型光導材料於光驅動
平台具有學術及產業之重要性，亦可延伸此種光導材料在生醫領域之應用性。 
本研究計畫完成了一系列以光為驅動源的分子生物操作平台，並開發對應的高分子光
導生醫晶片，計畫執行的成效包含了完成以下功能：（1）光誘發式流式細胞儀。利用市售
投影機產生光誘導的方式，來製作細胞計數器，其可以達到連續式的細胞計數及細胞分選
功能。（2）光誘發細胞膜胞解（cell lysis）。其可達到選擇性胞解細胞膜而不傷害到細胞核，
亦可做到連續式計數及胞解晶片。（3）單分子 DNA 拉伸、操控平台，及 DNA 機械性質研
究平台。本計畫亦成功的利用光驅動晶片，對單分子 DNA 作任意方向的拉伸及操控，這相
較於傳統用光鉗的方式大大節省了儀器架設的成本，同時也提高了操控的自由度，亦是一
項對於 DNA 操控上嶄新的平台，預期將會對此領域有相當大的貢獻。（4）高分子光導材料
的開發。本研究成功的開發以 P3HT/PCBM 為基礎的光導生醫晶片，P3HT/PCBM 是目前最
熱門之高分子太陽能電池材料之一，因其良好之光電轉換效率而相當受到重視，若將其特
有之性能及極簡易之製程應用於光誘發介電泳晶片的製作上，不但可簡化製程技術、更可
降低製作成本。（5）利用光介電泳平台及不同色光對光導材料的影響，成功的分離微粒子
及水包油乳化液滴。（6）最後並利用此平台操控奈米碳管，可將奈米探管排列成特定圖形，
並可利用光圖型使其移動。 
 
關鍵詞: 光電鉗、流式細胞儀、細胞胞解、單分子 DNA 操控、高分子光導材料、微機電
系統 
 
3. Progress Summary 
Summarize concisely the results obtained for each specific aim during the past year 
(or reporting period).  Negative results, if any, should also be included and 
approaches taken to improve the prospects of the project discussed. 
 
    本研究計畫成功開發了光介電泳平台，並利用此一平台完成了一系列以光為驅動源的
分子生物操作平台，並開發以高分子為材料的光導晶片，計畫執行的成效包含了完成以下
功能：（1）光誘發式流式細胞儀。（2）光誘發細胞膜胞解（cell lysis）。（3）單分子 DNA 拉
伸、操控平台，及 DNA 機械性質研究平台。（4）高分子光導材料的開發。（5）利用光介電
泳平台及不同色光對光導材料的影響，成功的分離微粒子及水包油乳化液滴。（6）最後並
利用此平台操控奈米碳管，可將奈米探管排列成特定圖形，並可利用光圖型使其移動，以
下將針對各模組提出簡要的說明及成果。 
 
1. 光誘發式流式細胞儀 
This study is about a new microfluidic device, optically-induced flow cytometry, capable of 
continuously counting and sorting microparticles based on optically-induced dielectrophoretic 
forces. Microparticles can be first successfully focused into a narrow line by using “virtual 
electrodes” generated by digital projectors. 9.7- and 20.9-μm microparticles can be then 
distinguished by embedded optical fibers. Finally, an optically-induced dynamic switch can sort 
microparticles with different sizes continuously. We report a device by integrating the ODEP and 
buried optical fiber detection in one chip. Figure 1 shows a schematic illustration of the 
optically-induced flow cytometry. First, the microparticles pass through symmetric virtual 
electrodes to focus the microparticles in a narrow line. Then the focused microparticles pass 
through a pair of buried optical fibers to count the number and analyze the diameter of the particles. 
Finally, an oblique virtual electrode is used to direct the particles with different sizes to different 
direction. Figures 2 shows that microparticles can be successfully focused into a straight line by 
using the of ODEP force. The particle velocity inside the channel was estimated to range from 
400 to 800 μm/s. Small and large microparticles can be then sorted into the upper and the lower 
virtual channel by switching the direction of the ODEP switch. The operating condition of the 
ODEP force is 15 Vpp at 100 kHz to generate a negative DEP force. One of the major advantages 
for ODEP operation is it can dynamically change the pattern of virtual electrodes. A pair of optical 
fibers were inserted into the optically-induced flow cytometer chip for the purpose of counting 
and analyzing microparticles. Figure 3 shows the detected signals of the mixture with 9.7 and 20.9 
μm microparticles. The 9.7- and 20.9-μm microparticles can be successfully distinguished from 
each other by the embedded optical fiber detection. The signal for the 20.9 μm microparticles is 
about 7 times larger than the signal for 9.7 μm microparticles. For 20.9 μm microparticles, a total 
count of 83 particles without any missing was achieved. For 9.7 μm microparticles, it was a total 
count of 77 particles with 3 missing. Another type of particle sorting is also demonstrated (Figure 
4). It is composed of two virtual electrodes with different inclinations projected on the pathway of 
the focused microparticles. The first electrode generates a weaker ODEP force and the second 
one produces a stronger force. When focused microparticles pass through the sorter, larger 
particles will be first deflected downwards by the weaker ODEP force and smaller particles will 
penetrate this virtual electrode and finally be deflected upwards by stronger force. Microparticles 
   
 
Figure 4. (a) Schematic illustration of the continuous microparticles separation (b) Microparticles 
are continuously separated by weaker and stronger virtual electrodes induced by different 
intensity of illumination. 
 
2. 光誘發細胞膜胞解（cell lysis） 
This study is about an optically-induced cell lysis device which can selectively lyse a single 
cell within a group of cells, a function which cannot be performed using traditional tools. This 
chip-scale device was made of a photoconductive material, which can induce a non-uniform 
electric field at a specific position under illumination of a beam spot generating a trans-membrane 
potential in the cell. With this approach, cell lysis can be performed using the optically-induced 
electric field. Fibroblast cells and oral cancer cells were used to demonstrate the capability of the 
developed chip. In addition to lysing the whole cell, the developed method also allowed one to 
selectively disrupt the cell membrane without damaging the nucleus. Operating parameters such 
as illumination power density and beam spot diameter for cell lysis were systematically 
investigated. Figure 5(a) is a schematic illustration showing the working principle of the 
developed chip. The lipid bilayer of a cell membrane is known to have a dielectric property. 
When it is exposed to an electric field, the trans-membrane potential is then induced. When the 
trans-membrane potential is higher than about 1 volt (V), it can cause irreversible electroporation 
to the cell membrane and thus disrupt the cell. The trans-membrane potential can be expressed as 
follows: 
1.5 cosaEϕ θΔ =                                                            (1) 
where a represents the radius of a spherical cell, E represents the strength of the applied electric 
field and θ is the angle between the applied electric field and a line normal to the point of interest 
in the cell membrane. Figure 5(b) shows a schematic illustration of the optically-induced cell 
lysis device. Amorphous silicon (1-μm thick) is used as the photoconductive layer with 
molybdenum (10-nm thick) as a conductive layer. Figure 6 shows a series of images for lysing 
fibroblast cells. They can be ruptured individually and sequentially by projecting a light spot onto 
each cell. Note that the light spot is excitation beam illuminated from the digital projector, which 
is collected and collimated by a 50x objective. In this figure, each cell with its corresponding 
debris is marked by the same symbol. Note that the cell debris is still under the influence of a 
positive optically-induced dielectrophoretic force so that the position of the debris is not the same 
as the original cell. The operating condition for lysing the fibroblast cells and oral cancer cells are 
7 Vpp and 9 Vpp, respectively, at 20 kHz with a broad-band illuminating power density of 1.17 
mW/μm2 with a beam diameter of 22 μm. Figure 7 shows the lysis process of a single fibroblast 
Stronger DEP 
Weaker DEP 
 (a)  (b)
process. 
 
 
Figure 7. A series of photographs showing the lysis process of a single fibroblast cell. When the 
applied voltage is 7 V p.p. at 20 kHz with an illuminated power density of 1.17 mW/μm2, the cell 
membrane and nucleus are disrupted at the same time. (a) A cell is stained with green 
fluorescence. (b) The light beam is illuminated on the photoconductive layer to induce a 
transmembrane potential. (c) The cell is disrupted to release some organelles black dots in this 
figure. (d) After the illumination light source is obstructed by a shutter, it can be observed that the 
entire cell is disrupted. 
 
3. 單分子 DNA 拉伸、操控平台，及 DNA 機械性質研究平台 
A new platform is presented that is capable of manipulating a single DNA molecule based on 
ODEP forces. The ends of a single DNA molecule are bound with a micro-bead, which is then 
manipulated by interactions with optical images projected from a commercially available 
projector. Thus a single DNA molecule is indirectly manipulated by a projected animation 
pre-programmed using simple computer software. Real-time observation of the manipulation 
process is made possible by using a fluorescent dye and an oxygen scavenging buffer. Two types 
of DNA manipulation modes, specifically DNA elongation and rotation, are successfully 
demonstrated and are characterized. The maximum stretching force can be as high as 61.3 pN for 
a 10.1 μm bead. Experimental data show that the force-extension curve measured using this 
platform fits reasonably with the worm-like chain model. The developed platform can be a 
promising and flexible tool for further applications requiring single molecule manipulation. The 
experimental procedures are described as follows. First, two ends of a λ-phage DNA are modified 
with biotin in order to attach onto micro-beads or a substrate. The modified DNA and the 
micro-bead surface-modified with streptavidin are then incubated together to form the 
tethered-bead DNA. Meanwhile, the DNA is stained with fluorescent dye so that it can be 
observed in real-time. Then the tethered-bead DNA is placed into the ODEP platform. Finally, a 
high-frequency driving voltage is provided and an optical image is projected to manipulate the 
single DNA molecule. Before the DNA elongation process, one end of the DNA is anchored onto 
the substrate while the other end is bound with a micro-bead (Fig. 8(a)). When an optical image is 
projected on a photoconductive substrate, the micro-bead can be manipulated to any position 
programmed by computer software and thus a single DNA molecule can be stretched indirectly. 
The elongation process can be then utilized to investigate the mechanic properties of single DNA 
   
Figure 9. A single DNA molecule is stretched by gradually increasing the magnitude of the 
applied voltage, thus increasing the repelling ODEP force. At larger applied voltages, the DNA 
molecule is stretched longer. 
 
 
Figure 10. A single DNA molecule is elongated by the interaction of a tethered micro-bead and 
optical images. 
 
4. 高分子光導材料的開發 
This study is about an approach for selective manipulation of microparticles using 
polymer-based ODEP devices. A thin film of a bulk-heterojunction polymer (a mixture of 
regioregular poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and [6,6]-phenyl C61-butyric acid methyl ester 
(PCBM)) is used as a light active layer. The ODEP force is generated by “virtual” electrodes (the 
optical images) created from a computer-programmable projector to manipulate polystyrene 
 
Figure 11. I-V curves of the device, ITO/PEDOT:PSS/P3HT:PCBM/Al, measured in dark and 
under the illumination of the blue, green, and red colors of light ( in the same optical power of 
1.45 W/cm2). The inset illustrates the UV-Vis absorption spectrum of P3HT:PCBM film and the 
spectra of three primary blue, green, and red colors of light illuminating from the projector. 
 
 
 
Figure 12. A series of photographs taken under an optical microscope, demonstrating the selective 
manipulation of polystyrene particles with a diameter of 20 μm. (a) ~ (d): All the polymer 
particles between the red- and blue-light rings are excluded as shrinking the diameter of the outer 
red-light ring. (e) ~ (h): All the polymer particles between the green- and blue-light rings can be 
collected inside the blue-light ring as shrinking the diameter of the outer green-light ring. 
 
5. 利用光介電泳平台及不同色光對光導材料的影響，成功的分離微粒子及水包油乳化液滴 
This study is about a new method to accurately separate micro-particles with different sizes 
using ODEP forces. It is found that the strength of the ODEP force induced on the hydrogenated 
amorphous silicon surface is determined by the color, line-width and intensity of the optical 
 
Figure 13. (a) Separation of 10-, 15- and 20-μm polystyrene beads by using multiple linear light 
segments with different colors. i–iii The 10-μm beads are firstly separated from the sample 
population. iv–vi After squeezing again the 15- and 20- μm polystyrene beads, beads with 
different sizes can be divided into three parts according to their sizes. (b) Schematic diagram for 
determination of the final space by designed program.  
 
 
Figure 14. A series of images showing rough separation of emulsion droplets with three different 
group of size (40~43, 20~30, and 2~8 μm). 
 
6. 奈米碳管操控 
four CNTs patterns are shifted clockwise from their previous locations. Figures 16(d) and (e) 
present the final results of this rotation process. When the light source is blocked for tens of 
seconds, the established patterns disappear and the CNTs are again dispersed randomly in the 
medium as shown in Figure 16(f). 
 
 
Figure 15. The collection and manipulation of CNTs patterning with various illuminated layouts 
is performed. (a)~(c): The originally dispersed CNTs are collected in multiple square areas. The 
side of each square is around 30 μm. (d) Six lines composed of CNTs are formed. The width of 
each CNT lines is 8~10 μm. (e) Four letters, “NCKU”, are formed based on manipulation of 
CNTs. (f) Dense-distributed CNTs are gathered at the grid intersections.   
 
 
 
dielectrophoresis,” Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering, Vol. 20, pp. 
045026, 2010 
[8] Wei Wang, Yen-Heng Lin, Ten-Chin Wen, Tzung-Fang Guo*, and Gwo-Bin Lee*, 
“Selective manipulation of microparticles using polymer-based optically-induced 
dielectrophoretic devices,” Applied Physics Letters, Vol. 96, pp. 113302, 2010 
[9] Yen-Heng Lin and Gwo-Bin Lee*, “An integrated cell counting and continuous cell lysis 
device using optically induced dielectrophoresis,” Sensors and Actuators B: Chemical, 
Vol. 145, pp. 854-860, 2010  
 

其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
We have published 9 SCI journal papers. One patent has been filed. 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本研究計畫完成了一系列以光為驅動源的分子生物操作平台，並開發對應的高分子光導生
醫晶片，計畫執行的成效包含了完成以下功能：（1）光誘發式流式細胞儀。利用市售投影
機產生光誘導的方式，來製作細胞計數器，其可以達到連續式的細胞計數及細胞分選功
能。（2）光誘發細胞膜胞解（cell lysis）。其可達到選擇性胞解細胞膜而不傷害到細胞
核，亦可做到連續式計數及胞解晶片。（3）單分子 DNA拉伸、操控平台，及 DNA 機械性質
研究平台。4）高分子光導材料的開發。本研究成功的開發以 P3HT/PCBM 為基礎的光導生
醫晶片，P3HT/PCBM 是目前最熱門之高分子太陽能電池材料之一，因其良好之光電轉換效
率而相當受到重視，若將其特有之性能及極簡易之製程應用於光誘發介電泳晶片的製作
上，不但可簡化製程技術、更可降低製作成本。（5）利用光介電泳平台及不同色光對光導
材料的影響，成功的分離微粒子及水包油乳化液滴。（6）最後並利用此平台操控奈米碳管，
可將奈米探管排列成特定圖形，並可利用光圖型使其移動。 
