IEEE JOURNAL OF OCEANIC ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. XX, XXX 2011 1
Underwater Anti-Intrusion Using Doppler Sonar in
Harbor Environments
T.C. Yang, J. Schindall, Chen-Fen Huang, Member, IEEE, and Jin-Yuan Liu Member, IEEE
Abstract— Active sonar performance against a moving un-
derwater target is studied experimentally in the Woods Hole
Harbor in Massachusetts and Kaohsiung Harbor in Taiwan to
evaluate the effectiveness of using Doppler processing to suppress
reverberations from fixed or slow moving objects. Using a pulsed
linear frequency modulated (LFM) signal, the data are filled
with high-level discrete backscattered returns, which are often
confused with the target echo. Using a Doppler-sensitive binary-
phase-shift-keying signal coded with an m-sequence, it is shown
that target and reverberation are well separated in Doppler
frequency using the Dopplergram, and the signal-to-(peak) rever-
beration ratio is significantly improved using the Doppler filter.
Early warning against a speedy target is demonstrated using the
wideband ambiguity function based on single ping data given a
sufficient signal level.
Index Terms— Clutter characterization, intruder detection,
Doppler-sensitive waveform, Doppler processing, Dopplergram.
Running title: Doppler Filter and Dopplergram
I. INTRODUCTION
Many commercial sonar systems have been designed to
detect and track divers/swimmers in harbors and coastal areas
to prevent terrorist attacks [1]. Since underwater intruders are
acoustically quiet, detection often relies on target echoes from
active sonar operated at high frequencies (tens of kHz). The
sonar returns are normally displayed in range and bearing
referred to as the echograph. It is found that the echograph
is full of high level scattered returns, some of them form
“tracks” and can be confused with targets [2]. Discrete high
level returns that are not target-related are referred to as clut-
ter. Clutter reduction requires novel system solutions, signal-
processing techniques [1], [2] and better understanding of the
clutter statistics. For example, advanced tracking techniques
based on track kinematics have been widely used to analyze
clutter data to detect moving targets. See, for example [3],
[4] and references therein. At the system level, we find,
to our knowledge, little studies on the frequency and range
dependences of the signal and reverberation level in harbor
environments, nor any capabilities to model/predict their levels
and statistical properties. In general, active sonar can encounter
high level reverberation returns from man-made structures,
debris, uneven bottom depth, fish school, etc. in harbor envi-
ronments. As sonar resolution improves, scattered returns from
discrete objects are more pronounced and can be confused with
targets.
T.C. Yang and J. Schindall are with Naval Research laboratory, Washington
DC 20375, USA, yang@wave.nrl.navy.mil
C.-F. Huang is with Institute of Oceanography, National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan.
J.-Y. Liu is with Institute of Applied Marine Physics and Undersea
Technology, National Sun Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
For defense against underwater swimmers, due to their
limited speed, delayed detection (track before detect) may not
be a problem since there is sufficient time to take action.
For a fast moving object, such as an unmanned underwater
vehicle (filled with explosives), delayed detection and high
false alarm rate are intolerable since time is critical, and
missed decision may carry grave consequences. One needs
an early warning system which can detect the intruder with
high confidence based on a single or a few snapshots of data.
This need motivates us to investigate the possibility of using a
Doppler filter to distinguish/suppress reverberations from fixed
or slowly moving objects from a fast moving target. Target
speed is used here to provide target classification, and early
warning.
Most sonar use linear frequency modulated (LFM) or hyper-
bolic frequency modulated (HFM) pulses for range estimation.
The HFM pulse is used for its Doppler insensitivity, allowing
all Doppler targets to be processed with only one replica.
Doppler-sensitive waveforms, such as pulsed sinusoidal waves,
have also been used in low frequency active sonar, often
in combination with other waveforms, such as HFM. Other
Doppler-sensitive waveforms include binary phase-shift keying
(BPSK) and Costas signals. For a moving source, the Doppler
of the reverberation are bearing (beam angle) dependent. Doisy
et al. explored the bearing-dependent Doppler to discrim-
inate/suppress reverberations from different look directions
using pulsed sinusoidal waves and pulsed trains of frequency-
modulated signals [5], [6]. Jourdain et al. used BPSK signals
to study echo returns from target highlights moving along a
rectilinear trajectory [7], [8]. The knowledge of the delay-
Doppler values for different points allows estimation of target
dimensions and longitudinal speed [7]. The phase differences
of the peaks of the cross-ambiguity surfaces between two
sensors can be used to estimate the target bearing and improve
target classification [8].
In this paper, we report measurements of the signal trans-
mission loss (TL) at high frequencies (50 − 60 kHz), and
analyze the active sonar performance in harbor environments
against an emulated target. We find that the transmission
loss is highly sensitive to bottom bathymetry. For the active
experiment, directional sonar with low sidelobe levels (< −20
– 30 dB) is used to minimize reverberation from non-target
look directions. In the target look direction, reverberation is
filled with many high level returns not associated with the
target. How to use Doppler to discriminate the not-target
related returns from the target echo is the focus of this paper.
To evaluate the effectiveness of Doppler sonar, a Doppler
sensitive BPSK signal was transmitted in sequence with the
T. C. YANG et al.: DOPPLER FILTER AND DOPPLERGRAM 3
resolution, on the order of 1/T , but lacks range resolution as
is well-known. The HFM signal has a high range resolution,
on the order 1/B. It is known to be insensitive to Doppler; as
seen in Fig. 1b the peak values of the ambiguity surface stay
nearly flat across Doppler (within ∼ 3 dB). The ambiguity
surface for the LFM signal, shown in Fig. 1c, is similar to
that of the HFM signal, except that its peak values at near
zero delay-time drop by −16 dB from 0 to ±100 Hz. It has
a similar range resolution like the HFM signal.
a) b) 
d) c) 
dB 
Fig. 1. Wideband ambiguity surfaces for (a) CW, (b) HFM, (c) LFM, and
(d) a combination of the CW+HFM pulses.
In active sonar, the CW and HFM pulses are often used in
sequence. When there is only one target, one can determine
the target range and speed using the HFM and CW waveforms
separately. When there are more-than-one (strong) returns, it is
difficult to determine the delay and Doppler of the target, since
one cannot uniquely associate the Doppler with the delay. An
alternative is to transmit both the CW and HFM together. To
determine how effective this approach is, one examines the
ambiguity surface of the CW+HFM signal which is shown
in Fig. 1d. One finds that the target delay and Doppler is
uniquely determined with a high resolution, based on the
peak of the ambiguity surface shown in Fig. 1d. But at the
same time, one finds relatively high sidelobe levels in both
delay and Doppler (approximately −6 dB below the main
peak). The high sidelobes could lead to an ambiguous or
incorrect estimate of target delay and Doppler, when there are
more-than-one scattered returns. For example, the ambiguity
surface of two returns, shifted in delay and Doppler, will
have four peaks in delay and Doppler. Where the sidelobes
(from different returns) intersect, the addition (constructive
interference) of the sidelobes could produce a higher peak
than the main peaks. Even worse is the situation when the
sidelobes from a strong object mask the echo return from a
weak target causing the target to be undetected.
Figure 2a shows the wideband ambiguity surface of the
BPSK signal coded with an m-sequence of length 4095 [14].
It shows a high peak centered at zero delay and Doppler,
with low sidelobe levels in both delay and Doppler [15]. The
peak-to-sidelobe ratio in delay is theoretically of the order
10 log(4095) ∼ 36 dB; the low sidelobe levels are due to
the cyclic orthogonality of the m-sequence. Figure 2b shows
the color display (in dB) of the ambiguity surface where one
zooms in on the peak. It shows more clearly the delay and
Doppler resolution. Near the peak, the ambiguity function can
be approximated by Λ(τB)sinc(pi∆T ), where B and T are
the signal bandwidth and duration as defined above, Λ is the
triangular function, and ∆ denotes the Doppler shift [7], [13].
The dependence of triangular and sinc functions is observed
in Fig. 2b. There is no coupling between delay and Doppler.
The delay resolution measured at −3 dB point is ∼ 0.04
ms, corresponding to a range resolution of ∼ 0.03 m. The
Doppler resolution measured at −3 dB point is ∼ 2.5 Hz.
Such fine resolution [16] is the result of the large bandwidth
and long duration of the signal for the purpose of boosting the
processing gain and suppressing the sidelobe levels.
One observes in Fig. 2 an evenly distributed low sidelobe
level in delay and Doppler with practically no coupling be-
tween delay and Doppler. This presents a significant advantage
for the active sonar, when multiple high-level discrete returns
are present in the data, since target and clutter can be identified
by Doppler, and leakage between the two (due to sidelobes)
is not a problem. Assuming that clutter originates mostly
from fixed or slowly moving objects, it is expected to have
a small Doppler shift. As such, clutter can be removed/filtered
by Doppler processing to improve the signal-to-reverberation
ratio. Since delay and Doppler are determined for each high
level return, target range and speed will not be confused with
that of the clutter and can be estimated accurately. These
advantages will be demonstrated using real data in the next
section.
In terms of data processing, as noted above, many replicas of
different Doppler shifts need to be generated to match the data.
HFM and CW pulses are the favorite waveforms, since one
HFM replica can be used for targets of practically any speed,
and the replica receiver for the CW pulse can be replaced
by the Fourier transform. For the BPSK signal coded with
an m-sequence (referred to as an m-sequence signal in short),
data processing can take advantage of techniques developed in
digital communications, where the correlation is done in the
baseband. The data are first demodulated into baseband and
C:\DopGram09\PG 0.01* Fse = 469,          640x480   
Doppler Shift (Hz)
De
lay
 T
im
e 
(m
se
c)
 
 
-40 -20 0 20 40
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5 -50
-45
-40
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
-40 -20 0 20 40
-40
-20
0
-5
0
5
-6
0
-4
0
-2
00
a) b) 
dB 
D
el
ay
 T
im
e 
(m
s)
 
Fig. 2. Wideband ambiguity surface for a BPSK signal coded with an m-
sequence. (a) A 3-D mesh plot. (b) A color plot zooming on the main lobe.
T. C. YANG et al.: DOPPLER FILTER AND DOPPLERGRAM 5
5 
Delay Time (s) Delay Time (s) 
74.1 s 
83.6 s 
93.1 s 
102.6 s 140.6 s 
131.1 s 
121.6 s 
112.1 s 
Fig. 5. Expanded view of the matched filtered outputs as a function of the
delay time for selected LFM pings.
target since the target range cannot be reliably estimated. The
classification problem is whether the target has a high speed
and poses immediate danger, which cannot be determined
based on the data presented. Most of all, one cannot answer
the detection question: whether there exists a target. The
conventional approach uses target track analysis based on
target kinematics, which requires a larger number of pings
over an extended time.
B. The M-sequence Data
For the Doppler-sensitive m-sequence signal one employs
the Doppler processing, since target detection requires Doppler
estimation and compensation/correction using the wideband
ambiguity function as discussed in Sec. II. Doppler processing
is done by matched filtering the raw data with Doppler
scaled/shifted replicas of the transmitted m-sequence signal.
An example of the ambiguity surface is given using a signal
at transmission time, Tx Time = 103 s as shown in Fig. 6a.
It shows a sharp peak with > 30 dB peak to sidelobe ratio
at a delay time of ∼ 0.129 s and Doppler frequency of
∼ 100 Hz, indicating the presence of a target moving with
a radial speed of 3 knots, located at a range of ∼ 97 m
from the source/receive. Plotting the ambiguity function at a
fixed delay time of ∼ 0.129 s (the delay time of the peak)
as a function of the Doppler frequency, one obtains the target
ambiguity function as a function of Doppler shift (referred
to as the Doppler spectrum) as shown in Fig. 6b. It shows a
Doppler resolution of ∼ 3 Hz at −3 dB level, approximately
the same as expected theoretically (see above). Plotting the
ambiguity function at a fixed Doppler shift of ∼ 100 Hz (the
Doppler shift of the peak) as a function of the delay time,
one obtains the echo time series as shown in Fig. 6c. It is
the matched filtered output as a function of the delay time
assuming a Doppler shift of 100 Hz. One finds that the time
series has a temporal resolution of 1 ms, yielding a range
resolution of 1 m. Several multipaths are noted. Note that
in real data, range estimation has some uncertainties due to
multipath arrivals, symbol synchronization error, and clock
inaccuracy. The peak to average sidelobe level is about 30
dB, compared with the theoretical value of ∼ 36 dB. The
6 
C:\DopGram09\WHOI_Aug09\RX\J224\Echo_detector_50kHz 
b 
2009-224-18-08-08.mat   iblock=  52 
  
dB 
c 
Doppler Shift (Hz)
Ti
m
e 
(s
ec
)
x1ch52009-224-18-08-08.mat   iblock=  52
 
 
-200 -100 0 100 200
0.125
0.126
0.127
0.128
0.129
0.13
0.131
0.132
0.133
0.134 50
55
60
65
70
75
a 
Tx Time= 103.1 s 
dB 
D
el
ay
 T
im
e 
(s
) 
Fig. 6. (a) Wideband ambiguity surface as a function of delay time and
Doppler shift based on data transmitted at Tx time of 103 s. (b) Target
ambiguity function as a function of Doppler shift. (c) Reverberation time
series evaluated at a Doppler shift of 100 Hz showing the target echo.
processing gain in the real world is expected to be less than
the theoretical value due to high reverberation returns which
increase the background level, and limited channel coherence
time, leading to a decrease in the matched filter gain.
1) Dopplergram: Repeating the Doppler processing for
each ping, and stacking the Doppler spectra (Fig. 6b) as-
sociated with the peak of the ambiguity surface over the
transmission time, one obtains a Doppler spectral gram (re-
ferred to as the Dopplergram [9]) as shown in Fig. 7. Two
Doppler frequency lines are noted in Fig. 7. One, denoted
by A, concentrates at 100 Hz, decreases to 75 Hz near the
end, and the other, denoted by B, stays between −20 and 0
Hz. Dopplergram follows the same concept as Lofargram used
in passive sonar. One notes in passive narrowband detection,
given a snapshot spectrum, there are likely many spectral peaks
that are not associated with the target. Given a continuous
record (Lofargram), the target detection is improved since
target spectral lines are continuous with time whereas the
spurious lines are usually not. The same concept is adopted
for Dopplergarm. The Dopplergram (Fig. 7) suggests two (or
more) potential moving targets (based on the aggregation of
data points around two band of Doppler frequencies): one with
high Doppler shift or high radial speed, and the other with low
Doppler shift, or low radial speed.
For this experiment, one knows that there is no moving
target moving with a small radial-speed. The low Doppler
returns must be some kind of reverberation returns. The origin
of this low Doppler return is discussed in the next section.
2) Doppler Filter: Having identified potential moving tar-
gets in the Doppler space, one can narrow the target search
in two Doppler bands, i.e., −20 to 0 Hz and 60 to 120 Hz.
Searching in the 60 − 120 Hz band, the echo time series
(associated with the peak of each ambiguity surface) are
plotted as a function of delay time and stacked over the
T. C. YANG et al.: DOPPLER FILTER AND DOPPLERGRAM 7
9 
Tx
 T
im
e 
(s
) 
Delay Time (s) 
Fig. 9. Matched filtered time series focused on the low band Doppler using
the m-sequence data, stacked over many pings. Amplitude in same units as
in Fig. 8.
statistics of the high-level volume reverberation from the
raw data, and that of the background reverberation from the
Doppler filtered data.
In general, the amplitude of the reverberation is expected
to be Rayleigh distributed if the reverberation is comprised
of backscattered returns from scatterers that are randomly
distributed. As sonar beam resolution improves, the number
of scatterers ensonified become smaller, and the distribution
becomes non-Rayleigh; it normally has a long-tail distribution
due to high level returns from certain highlighted objects.
The question is then what is the amplitude statistics of the
high-level volume reverberations found in this experiment. To
determine that, we take 468 samples (2 ms long) from the time
series of each LFM ping at a delay time of 0.1 s, excluding
those samples when target is present. (See Fig. 4.) The data
samples are combined to calculate the amplitude distribution.
The result is shown in Fig. 10, marked by the cross sign. One
finds that it has a non-Rayleigh distribution.
We next calculate the amplitude distribution of the residue
reverberation obtained after Doppler filtering. The first method
is to apply the same processing to the data in Fig. 8 at a
delay time of 0.1 s, excluding the data samples when target
is present. The second method is to take data samples from
the Dopplergram (Fig. 7) at a Doppler away from the target
Doppler (e.g. 30 − 50 Hz) over all transmission time, and
determine the amplitude distribution. One finds that these
two methods yield roughly the same distribution as shown
in Fig. 10 (marked by the plus sign); these data can be fitted
with a Rayleigh distribution. The mean intensity of the residue
reverberation is approximately 6 dB lower than that of the
10 
C:\DopGram09\WHOI_Aug09\RX\J224_A\Pdf_Rev_Dop.fig\SNR_DelayTime_Dop_1.fig\step1-dop.m  
(arbitrary unit) Amplitude (arbitrary unit) 
Delay Time = 0.1 s 
Fig. 10. Probability distribution of the reverberation amplitude sampled at
a delay time of 0.1 s. The raw data (black line marked with ×) show a non-
Rayleigh distribution whereas the Doppler-filtered residue reverberation (red
line marked with +) follows a Rayleigh-like distribution.
raw reverberation. It is anticipated (known) that a high tail
reverberation distribution will increase the false alarm rate,
determined by the integration of the reverberation amplitude
distribution above the detection threshold (the survival func-
tion). Conversely, for a fixed alarm rate the non-Rayleigh
distribution requires a higher signal-to-reverberation ratio to
yield the same probability of detection compared with the
Rayleigh distribution.
Using the first method, one finds that while the distributions
of the amplitudes remain like Rayleigh-like at “all” delay
times, the mean amplitude of the residue reverberation varies
with the delay time since the total reverberation is a function of
the delay time (or range). Using the second method, one finds
that the amplitude distribution is insensitive to the Doppler
frequencies of the samples, so long as they are sufficiently
separated from the two Doppler bands mentioned above.
2) Signal-to-Peak-Reverberation Ratio: As shown in Fig. 5
and discussed in Sec. III-A, target detection, localization
and classification are ambiguous in the presence of discrete
high-level backscattered returns among the reverberation. For
an individual time series in Fig. 5, the mean reverberation
level averaged over delay time is relatively low compared
with the target level (at the delay time based on known
target range). Thus, what makes detection, localization or
classification difficult is not the mean reverberation level but
the peak reverberation level (in the neighborhood of the target.)
To compare the performance, we calculate in this section the
signal to the peak reverberation ratio (SPRR) by estimating
the target echo level along the target track, and the peak
reverberation level within ±25 ms of the target echo, excluding
the target echo. The result is shown in Fig. 11a and 11b using
the data from Figs. 4 and 8, respectively. One observes that
using the Doppler filter, the SPRR is at times improved by
> 10 dB.
The improved SPRR is evident in the Dopplergram (Fig. 7)
due to the low reverberation background. One can determine
the SPRR following the second method mentioned above
T. C. YANG et al.: DOPPLER FILTER AND DOPPLERGRAM 9
13 
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
Range (m)
SL 
(dB
)
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
Range (m)
SL 
(dB
)
Out bound 
In bound 
R
L 
(d
B
) 
R
L 
(d
B
) 
+ Run 1   
o Run 3 
x Run 2 
m 
a 
b 
c 
Range (m) 
Range (m) 
Fig. 13. Received signal level (RL) as a function of range for: two out-bound
runs (b) and one in-bound run (c). The ship tracks are shown on the left (a)
together with bathymetry in the inner harbor (bottom depth in meter). Data
and ship tracks are associated by color.
transmission loss using ray tracing. Large signal fluctuations
can also be caused by constructive or destructive interference
between multipath arrivals. Such phenomena should be re-
producible using a coherent propagation model. For reference
(benchmark), one likes to know: How much signal fluctuation
does a (coherent) ray tracing model predict assuming a flat
bottom? If the model fails to match the observed signal
fluctuation, can it match the mean TL? From the system
performance point of view, one would like know: How detailed
a bathymetry is needed to predict/model the TL and how much
of the sound fluctuation is not due to the bathymetry but
due to the sound speed fluctuation in the ocean media. These
questions have been studied extensively at low frequencies
but little is known at high frequencies. We could not answer
these questions here since detailed bathymetry and sound
speed profiles along the propagation path were not available
during the experiment. In this section we limit ourselves to
two basic questions: How much shadowing would directional
sonar produce for a more or less flat bottom, and can the mean
signal level data be reasonably modeled?
To model TL, we map out the bottom depth along the ship
tracks using the bathymetry chart in the inner harbor (see the
color plot in Fig. 13a). For run 2, one finds that the propagation
path (red line in Fig. 13a) encounters a “seamount” which rises
∼ 10 m above the bottom in a water of average depth of 12 m.
The relatively large variation of the received level (Fig. 13c)
may be related to the upslope enhancement and down slope
spread of the signal over the “seamount”. For run 1, the bottom
bathymetry is shown in Fig. 13a up to 400 m range, beyond
that the bottom is assumed flat for lack of data. Since the
bathymetry along run 2 is not known in details, we shall
concentrate on run 1. For TL calculation in a range dependent
environment with a directional source, we use the Bellhop
ray tracing program [18]. The source is located at depth of
9 m, with an initial ray launch angle limited to ±6◦ from
the horizontal direction. Figure 14a shows the modeled TL as
a function of range averaged over a receiver depth between
14 
a 
b 
 rt(14) =39 m; RL = 185+2*TL_dB(14)= 120; T= 0.26 sec, dR = T*1500/2 = 195 Fig. 14. (a) Comparison of modeled TL matched with measured RL for run1 of Fig. 13. (b) Target echo level (Fig. 11b) fitted with modeled two-way
TL.
5 and 6 m. The modeled TL is in good agreement with the
mean (range averaged) TL data but it does not reproduce the
TL variation with range between 400 and 1000 m, where the
bottom bathymetry is not known.
Using the modeled TL, one can fit the measured target echo
level data (Fig. 14b) since the target echo level is the source
level minus twice the TL plus the target strength, all in dB.
Treating the source level and the target strength as constants
(noting that the scattering function for the sphere is angle
independent), the modeled (two-way) signal level is fitted to
the data as shown in Fig. 14b. The modeled signal level can be
interpreted as the mean signal level ignoring the dependence
of the TL on the bathymetry. It provides a capability to model
the echo level at longer ranges and could be used for system
performance analysis.
V. DISCUSSIONS AND CONCLUSIONS
The Doppler properties of the target echo and reverberation
are analyzed in this paper based on data collected in the Woods
Hole Harbor. We find that: (1) Target and reverberation can be
separated in the Doppler space. Target and reverberation can be
tracked using Dopplergram. (2) The background reverberation
in the high Doppler space has a low level in the measured
data, consistent with the hypothesis that backscattered returns
from fixed objects have low Doppler shift. (3) The wideband
ambiguity surface using Doppler sensitive waveforms can be
used to detect a moving target based on individual ping data
due to the low (residue) reverberation level in the high Doppler
space. (4) The high level backscattered returns in the raw data
have a negative Doppler shift of −10 – 0 Hz, or equivalently
a speed of ∼ 0.15 m/s moving away in the target look
direction. A plausible cause for the low Doppler reverberation
is backscattering returns from debris/fishes/shrimps carried by
the tidal currents in the Woods Hole harbor, referred to as
volume reverberation. (5) The high level volume reverberation
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內學者專家出席國際學術會議報告 
100年 10月 30日 
報 告 人 
姓 名 劉 金 源 
服 務 機 構
及 職 稱 國立中山大學海洋科學學院院長
 
會 議 
 
時 間 自 2011年 9月 23日 至 9月 25日 本會核定補
助 文 號 NSC 99-2221-E-110 -093 
地 點 中國上海 
會 議 名 稱 
2011第二屆國際海洋技術大會 
2nd Annual Marine Technology Summit-2011, Busan Korea 
發表論文題目 
西子灣海洋實驗場做為淺海聲學研究之場域 
Development of a Marine Test Field for Acoustic Studies in a Very Shallow 
Water Environment near Sizihwan Bay in Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
報告摘要： 
Acoustic wave propagation in a very shallow water environment of depth in the order of several 
tens of meters is an important subject, particularly for applications in the littoral or harbor areas. 
The purpose of this paper is to report the development of a Marine Test Field (MTF) for acoustic 
studies in the area near the Sizihwan Bay in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, an effort representing a long-term 
investment for the study of very-shallow-water and harbor acoustics. The process for developing 
the MTF is first to analyze the marine environment through detailed survey and analysis, including 
the geographical, morphological, and geological properties of the seabed, followed by the 
prediction and analysis of the acoustic sound fields based upon the measured environmental data. 
Three benchmark experiments have been carried out since the winter of 2009, including an acoustic 
transmission experiment in a very shallow water environment, an underwater anti-intrusion 
experiment in an inner harbor area, and a shallow water networking and communication experiment. 
These experiments have demonstrated that the concept of establishing an MTF in the Sizihwan Bay 
area is feasible and suitable to our needs. In this report, the results for acoustic transmission 
experiment are presented, including the uncertainty analysis due to the environmental or 
hydrological variations. A process of quantifying, predicting, and exploiting (QPE) the effects of 
the environmental factors on the acoustic field in the MTF has thus been initiated. 
報告日期與節次：: September 24, 2011, 9:00~11:00 am 
 
進行口頭報告 
 
開幕 Plenary session 
  
Confirmation Letter 
 
 
Thank you for your acceptance to be a speaker at MarineTech Summit (MTS-2011), which will be held 
during September 23-25, 2011 in Busan, South Korea. I am sending you the formal confirmation letter of 
your abstract. You are welcome to join us with the other outstanding scientists. 
Hereby, the organizing committee of MTS-2011 is to confirm that Dr. Jin-Yuan Liu is a speaker of 
MarineTech Summit (MTS-2011). 
 
If you have any other questions about the meeting, please feel free to contact us at 
debra@bitconferences.com. 
 
 
Sincerely yours,  
 
 
 
 
Dr. Xiaodan Mei 
Executive Chair of MTS-2011 
The Organizing Committee of MTS-2011 
26 Gaoneng Street, R405 
Dalian Hightech Zone 
Dalian, LN 116025, China 
Contacts: Debra Zhao, Tel: 0086-411-84799609-813, Email: debra@bitconferences.com 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 西子灣海洋實驗場：港區環境中水下反入侵偵測之研究
計畫主持人: 劉金源
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-110-093- 學門領域: 水下技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究透過國際合作，邀請美國 Naval Research Laboratory (NRL)資深科學
家楊子江博士，一起在高雄真愛碼頭進行實驗。由於很多儀器與系統、研究經
費都由 NRL 負責建置，並空運來台，我方負責船期與後勤支援，圓滿完成任務，
合作愉快。今後，本研究主持人將持續與 NRL 合作，希望可儘速在水下偵測方
面，有突破性的貢獻。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
