 2
dB and 3.3 dB, respectively. The corresponding lengths 
were 70 cm and 45 cm, and the total length of the resonator 
was 4 meter. All the components were fusion-spliced. The 
beam diameter of the fundamental mode of the gain fiber 
was 10.8 µm, and that of the SAQS fiber was 6.5 µm. Thus, 
the ratio of the beam areas was about 2.75. The laser output 
was detected by a 175-ps fast EOT ET-3000 InGaAs 
photodetector and plotted using an Agilent 300-MHz 
MegaZoom oscilloscope. The output power was measured 
using a Newport 818-IR power detector that was assembled 
with an integrating sphere and an energy meter.  
For a SAQS laser, where the relaxation lifetime of the 
SAQS is longer than, or close to, that of the gain medium, a 
modulated pump source is required in order to obtain 
sequentially Q-switched pulses. Therefore, a modulated CW 
980-nm laser diode was used for the laser pump in the 
experiment. In addition, since Er3+: glass has a long 
relaxation lifetime (i.e., τ2~10 ms), the modulation 
frequency (i.e., the repetition rate of the Q-switched pulses) 
was limited. The modulated driving current was a square-
waveform function varying between 170 mA and 270 mA at 
a frequency of 20 Hz. The corresponding power of the 980-
nm pump varied between 90 to 143 mW. The lasing 
threshold current was about 255 mA. It is important to note 
that the Q-switched laser was not activated by a pulsed 
pump source. To demonstrate saturable absorber Q-
switching, the laser was pumped and Q-switched near the 
threshold condition. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A steady output of sequentially Q-switched pulses was 
detected, as shown in Fig. 2. Each pulse appeared about 5 
ms after the rising edge of the pump. A small damping was 
also observed 300 µs after the Q-switched pulses. The 
reason for the damping, determined in a later simulation, 
was related to the instantly increased pump efficiency after 
Q-switching, which results in a fast recovery of gain 
population. The damping could be easily eliminated by 
adjusting the duty cycle of the modulated pump to be 0.1. 
The full width at half magnitude (FWHM) of the pulse was 
760 ns, and the average pulse energy was 0.61 µJ. Thus, a 
peak pulse power of 0.8 W was achieved.  
 
III.  Q-switching simulation 
Erbium is classified for use as a 3-level laser and a 2-
level saturable absorber. An Er3+ laser Q-switched with an 
Er3+ SAQS can be simulated using the following modified 
rate equations of Siegman [16]:  
,g g a a c m
dn K N K N n
dt
α α⎡ ⎤= − − − ×⎣ ⎦   (1) 
( )
2
1 ,g g r gTp r g g
dN N g N
R g K nN
dt τ
+= − − +
  (2) 
2
11a aT a a a
r
dN N N K nN
dt gτ
⎛ ⎞−= − +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ,  (3) 
where n is the number of the photons in the resonance mode, 
Ng is the inverse population of the gain fiber (i.e., Ng2-grNg1), 
Na  is the absorption population of the absorber (i.e., Na1-
Na2/gr), and gr is the ratio of the degeneration factors g2 /g1. 
The factor αc is the cavity loss, and αm represents the useful 
loss by the FBG output coupler. The factor Kg is the coupling 
coefficient defined to be σe/(Agt1), where σe is the stimulated 
emission cross-section of the laser, Ag is the cross-sectional 
area of the mode field guided in the gain fiber, and t1 is the 
one-way-trip time of the standing-wave resonator. Similarly, 
Ka is σa/(Aat1), where σa is the absorption cross section, and 
Aa is the area of the mode field in the SAQS fiber. The 
threshold criterion, Ka/Kg >1, is crucial for Q-switching 
performance. For the case of self-Q-switching (i.e. σa ≅σg), a 
large ratio of Ka/Kg can be obtained by increasing Ag/Aa. The 
factors NgT and NaT are the total dopant populations of Er3+ in 
the gain fiber and the absorber, respectively. τ2 is the level-2 
lifetime of Er3+, and Rp is the pump rate of Ng. Through eqs. 
(1) and (2), one can obtain the threshold gain population 
Ngth=(KaNaT+αc+αm)/Kg and the required threshold pump rate 
Rpth=(Ngth+grNgT)/τ2. Furthermore, note that Rp is related to 
the instant Ng and the pump intensity density Ip as:  
( )p pp gT g
p
I
R N N
hv
σ= − ,       (4) 
where σp is the effective absorption cross section of an Er3+ 
doped gain fiber at the pump wavelength of 980 nm, and hνp 
is the energy of a single pump photon. At the time of Q-
switching, Ng is consumed from high to low population, 
causing a lifted Rp right after a Q-switched pulse. This 
suddenly enlarged Rp results in quick lasing before Na 
recovers to NaT. Therefore, a square waveform-modulated Ip 
was used and adjusted around the threshold condition, which 
varied between 1.06×Ipth and 0.5×Ipth, where Ipth  is 
hνpRpth/[σp(NgT−Ngth)]. In the simulation, the emission and 
absorption cross-sections of Er3+ were set to be 7×10-21 cm2 
(i.e., gr=1),  and the ratio of Ag to Aa was 2.75. Measuring the 
round-trip nonsaturable cavity loss was difficult in the 
experiment. In the simulation, this loss was tuned and 
determined to be 3.66 dB by reaching a pulse FWHM that 
was consistent with the measured one. Presumably, such 
cavity loss mainly results from the transmission loss of the 
mismatched fiber core diameters. The simulation of the Q-
Fig. 2. An all-fiber Er3+ pulsed laser, passively Q-switched using an 
Er3+ SAQS fiber with a modulated pump source. The square waveform 
signal was the driving current applied to the 980-nm pump laser diode. 
The inset shows a pulse followed by small damping at a smaller scale 
