A Framework for Human-Culture Interaction Design 
-- Beyond Human-Computer Interaction 
 
Abstract 
Over the past several decades, we have made many efforts to understand Human-Computer 
Interaction (HCI). Based on scientific research and development, we know a great deal about 
creating successful human - computer interaction. Recently, interaction design has switched focus 
from usability and cognitive ergonomics to the affective and interactive experience of the user. 
Culture plays an important role in products with embedded information technologies, and 
designing culture into products will become a design trend in interactive design. Beyond 
Human-Computer Interaction then, we need a better understanding of Human-Culture Interaction 
not just for taking part in the cultural context, but also for developing the interactive experience 
of users. Therefore, we propose a general framework for cultural product experience that applies 
to the mental models of designer and user and which can be experienced in Human-Culture 
Interaction. Then, based on the interactive experience of users with the aboriginal cultural object 
-- Linnak, a modern Linnak was proposed to demonstrate how to design a successful cultural 
product using the human-culture interaction framework. The intended purpose of this paper is to 
provide a framework for examining the way designers interact across cultures and the interactive 
experience of users in the design process. 
Keywords: Interaction Design, User Experience, Cultural Product Design. 
 
Relevance to Design Practice – The framework for Human-Culture Interaction proposed and 
discussed in this paper is of value for designers because it can help to design “culture features” 
into interaction design, as well as provide users with a valuable reference for understanding 
interactive experience. 
understanding of interaction with information technology products and how to put this 
understanding to practical use in the design and evaluation of daily used products. The concept is 
supported by Shneiderman (2002) who noted that we are now in the second transformation of 
computing, in which the shift from machine-centered automation to user-centered services and 
tools, is enabling users to be more creative. The HCI design process asserts that the architecture 
of system and interface components should be directed by a holistic understanding of “use and 
user needs through a process of intelligent and conscious design.” (Kapor, 1996; Edgar & 
Sedgwick, 1999).  
Norman (2004) argued that affect and emotion are not as well understood as cognition, but 
are both considered part of the information processing system with different functions and 
operating parameters. Therefore, we propos a general framework for cultural product experience 
that applies to the mental model of designer and user and which can be experienced in 
Human-Culture Interaction. Then, based on the interactive experience of users with the aboriginal 
cultural object -- Linnak, a modern Linnak was proposed to demonstrate how to design a 
successful cultural product using the human-culture interaction framework. The intended purpose 
of this paper is to provide a framework for examining the way designers interact across cultures 
and the interactive experience of users in the design process. 
Cultural Product Design Model : Linnak as the interface  
Using Cultural features to add extra value to a product can benefit not only economic growth, 
but also promote unique local culture in the global market. Therefore, because transferring 
cultural features into a cultural product becomes a critical issue, a cultural product design model 
including three main parts: conceptual model, research method, and design process, was proposed 
for combining culture levels, layers, and design features which facilitate understanding cultural 
product design (authors).  
In author’s paper (2007), the “Linnak”, a twin-cup, was chosen as the cultural object to 
transfer its cultural features into a modern product. After its appearance, usability, and cultural 
meaning were studied, the usage behavior and meaning of “sharing with each other” was 
identified. The “Eternity” as shown in Figure 1, a modern twin-cup, was proposed to show the 
culture meaning of "sharing with each other" from the original cultural object – Linnak. The 
“Eternity” is a symmetrical pair of cups connected together inversely to show the close 
relationship of the drinkers as a couple. This design won the gold award at the "2006 5th Bombay 
the Linnak, “sharing with each other” is transformed to communication with each other. It was 
romance that used the cultural object for modern social behavior.  
Beyond the HCI – Framework for Human - Culture Interaction  
Taking the “Eternity” as an example, the “Linnak” is a typical cultural object which can be 
transformed into a contemporary design for the current consumer market. There are social 
meanings, ergonomic concerns and functional achievement associated with this cultural object. 
To provide an ideal drinking cup for the modern market, both the social and operational interfaces 
of the “Linnak” need to be well-designed. However, the contemporary consumer market may 
need a new form of the “Linnak” suitable for the modern environment. Thus, how to 
communicate with the “Linnak” and extract the idea of “sharing with each other” in the design of 
the “Eternity” are valuable for enhancing usage in our daily life (Lin, 2007). Based on the 
previous studies and Norman’s conceptual models (Norman, 1988), a framework of 
Human-Culture Interaction (Figure 3) was proposed for examining the way designers 
communicate across cultures as well as the cultural aspect of interaction and user experience in 
the design process.  
 
 
Figure 3 The Human-Culture Interaction Model 
 
features underlie the different conceptual model of cultural product experiences which are used to 
explain the process and culture meaning of human-culture interaction.  
Ergonomic considerations for human product interaction  
The most important ergonomic consideration for designing daily-life products is “designing 
for human use.” Especially, when the issue of applying anthropometric data is addressed. In 
ergonomic considerations, the requirement in anthropometric design is to determine a value for 
some design parameter in terms of a percentile cutoff for an anthropometric value in order to 
meet a target percentage for a population of interest. The anthropometric database is used as a 
design reference for daily used products. However, the most effective application of such data in 
product design is another important issue (authors). 
The “Linnak” ranges in length from 43cm (low percentile) to 91cm (high percentile) as 
shown in Figure 4. Its average length is about 74.4cm (50 percentile). In addition , the average 
width and height of the twin cup are 11cm, and 7.3cm respectively. The distance between the 
center of two cups varies from 29 to 42cm, and the capacity is about 600 c.c.. These dimensions 
have indicated the way in which this cultural object was used and these distances indicated an 
invisible space between two people. From a usability point of view, the diamond shape cup 
illustrates that an angular mouth was used for ease of drinking wine. Furthermore, the drinking 
process has emphasis the meaning of “working together” and “sharing with each other.” 
 
 
Figure 4 The physical dimensions of the “Linnak” 
 Figure 7 The simulation of different drinking situations 
Testing interactive experience of cultural product  
Using anthropometric data in design involves art as well as science. However, in the use of 
such data for designing daily-life products, there are generally two aspects: 1) determine what 
anthropometric design principle should be applied, and 2) achieve the anthropometric 
considerations in the most cost effective manner. Based on these principles, the recommendations 
of ergonomic dimensions for the ideal twin cup were studied. Therefore, this study focused on the 
application of anthropometric data by collecting the suitable dimensions of twin cup as shown in 
the Table 1. Then the minimum, the average, and the maximum sizes were chosen as the 
examples and three kinds of model were build and used as the sample to test the operation of 
“Linnak.” as shown in the Figure 8.  
 
 
Figure 8 Three kinds of wooden model as the testing sample 
 
 
 
introduce the cultural meaning and use scenario of the Linnak to the participants. Then they were 
asked to used the Linnak model for simulating the drinking situation and exploring the preference 
gesture in drinking. Finally, they were asked to answer a subjective questionnaire about their user 
experience. 
After using the wooden models, the responses of user experience were studied and 
summarized. What is the most interesting part? The form and culture meaning of the Linnak and 
the cultural meaning are the most interesting part in the use experience. In modern society, we 
couldn’t see the typical cultural object easily or and even use them, but the cultural meaning 
following from the twin cup form made a impression on the participants. After finishing the 
questionnaire, the user experience responses were studied and are summarized as follows:  
(1) The culture meaning of Linnak standing for “sharing with each other” and “closed 
relationship” is the most impressive part. 
(2) Pleasure in use is also an impressive experience focusing on the using behavior and 
enhancing the relationship between the Linnak and the user.  
(3) After using the Linnak models, what is the most interesting part? Not only in the form of 
the Linnak, but also the “cultural meaning”. In modern society, we couldn’t see the 
typical cultural object easily or and even use them, but the cultural meaning following 
from the twin cup form made an impression on the participants.  
(4) The relationship with a partner changes the distance between of the two cups. The 
distance between the center of the two cups indicated the degree of close relationship 
between the two users. If the relationship between users is intimate, the two cups will be 
close. When the relationship with the partner is normal (not negative), the original 
distance of the cups would be maintained rather than a close one.  
(5) Most participants thought that the cultural meaning and the usage comfort considerations 
of the cultural object -- Linnak would be equally important. In other words, the Linnak 
must be based on usability considerations and retain the original cultural meaning. This 
is the key point that must be considered in a new cultural product design. 
Using user experience information, the communication between a cultural object and its 
users has been studied. For designers following the “Cultural Product Design Model”, the 
important consideration of the design elements had been extracted from the culture meaning. 
Thus the user experience related to the cultural object followed the human-culture interaction 
model (Lin, 2007). 
Based on the structure of the “Eternity” and the user experience and comfort considerations, 
the refined version of designing “close relationships” into “Eternity” was developed. The design 
case A is shown in Figure 11. A special joint device was designed for transforming three usage 
forms—the standard form of cups up and down; the turning form via the rolling ball; and the two 
cups side by side. In testing user experience, the users stated that “positive relationship with the 
partner will make them take the two cups closely.” According to user response, a metal device 
joining the glass-body of cups was proposed to transform the cup form and fit the different 
relationships and drinking situations. Figure 12 shows design case B. The rolling ball device for 
transforming to fit different drinking situations was retained. For usability considerations, design 
case B added the new handle part at the side of the cup edge, and made the edge of cup thick and 
solid to become the holder.  
 
   
Figure 11  The redesign of “Eternity” in case A  
 
 
Figure 12 The redesign of “Eternity” in case B  
study. 
 
Acknowledgment 
 
The authors gratefully acknowledges the support for this research provided by the National 
Science Council under Grants No. NSC-96-2221-E-144-001.The author also wishes to thank the 
various students who designed the products presented in this paper, especially, C. H. Hsu, H. 
Cheng, M. X. Sun, and E. T., Kuo, and colleagues who have contributed to this study over the 
years, especially, Dr. J. G. Kreifeldt. 
 
Reference 
Chang, W. C., & Wu, T. Y. (2007). Exploring types and characteristics of product forms. 
International Journal of Design, 1(1), 3-14. 
Desmet, P. M. A., & Hekkert, P. (2007). Framework of product experience. International Journal of 
Design, 1(1), 57-66. 
Edgar, A. & Sedgwick, P. (1999). Key Concepts in Cultural Theory. NY: Routldge. 
Faiola, A. (2007). The Design Enterprise: Rethinking the HCI Education Paradigm 
. Design Issues, 23(3), 30-45. 
Handa, R. (1999). Against arbitrariness: Architectural signification in the age of globalization. 
Design Studies,20(4), 363-380. 
Jakobson, R. (1960). Closing Statement: linguistics and poetic’ in Sebeok, T. (Ed.), Style and 
Language, Cambridge, Mass: IT Press. 
Kapor, M. (1996). A Software Design Manifesto. In T. Winograd, J. Bennett, L. DeYoung, and B. 
Hartfield (Eds.), Bringing Design to Software. New York: Addison Wesley. 
Kottak, C. P. (2005). Windows on Humanity. McGraw Hill, New York.  
Lee, K. P. (2004). Design methods for a cross-cultural collaborative design project. In J. 
Redmond, D. Durling, & A. de Bono (Eds.), Proceedings of Design Research Society 
International Conference – Futureground (Paper No.135), Melbourne: Monash University. 
Leong, D., & Clark, H. (2003). Culture-based knowledge towards new design thinking and 
practice - A dialogue. Design Issues, 19(3), 48-58. 
Lin, R.T. (2007).Transforming Taiwan Aboriginal Cultural Features Into Modern Product Design
－A Case Study of Cross Cultural Product Design Model. International Journal of Design, 
1(2), 45-53. 
Lin, R.T., Cheng, R., Sun, M. X. (2007). Digital Archive Database for cultural product design. 
HCI International  2007, 22-27 July, Beijing, P.R. China. paper- ID:825, Proceedings 
Volume 10, LNCS_4559, ISBN: 978-3-540-73286-0.  
Lin, R.T., Yang,S.W., Hsiao,W.S., Lin,H.Y., Kang, Y.Y. (2007). Designing “Height” into Daily 
Used Products – A Case Study of Universal Design. HCI International  2007, 22-27 July, 
Beijing, P.R. China. ID:58, Proceedings Volume 5, LNCS_4554, ISBN: 978-3-540-73278-5.   
 行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
報告人姓名 林榮泰 
服務機構及
職稱 
國立台灣藝術大學工藝設計系 
教授 
  時間 
會議地點 
96/10/10-12 
日本札幌 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2007 感性工學與感情研究國際會議 
 (英文) International Conference on Kansei Engineering and Emotion Research 2007
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)台灣原住民飲酒用連杯之認知人因工程探討 
(英文) A Study of Cognitive Human Factors in Taiwan Aboriginal Twin Cup 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
    「日本感性工程協會」 (Japanese Society of Kansei Engineering)簡稱JSKE，與韓國
感性研究協會(Korean Society for Emotion & Sensibility)簡稱KOSES，和設計與感性協會
(Design and Emotion Society)簡稱D & E，共同舉辦本次研討會。今年KEER2007從2007年
10月10日—10月12日共三天於日本札幌舉行，主要由日本與韓國研究感性工程相關領
域的學者所組成的一個國際性研討會，加上來自西方的學者，於日本札幌共同參與。
今年的會議主題為” Kansei engineering and Emotion research”，共分29項議程，同時以
"Design of Excellence"為題舉辦了一個特別的展覽。本次會議共有420位與會者包含
230位發表者與9間公司參與。 
    正式會議於10月10日日上午在大會主席Akira Harada主持下正式開幕。會議除第
一天早上安排有opening ceremony與keynote speech外，後兩天均以論文發表為主。第一
天的keynote speech，安排了Paul Hekkert (President, Design & Emotion Society)主講
“The product as a mediator : Understanding and designing for experience＂；接下來的
Plenary Speech, 主講Yoshiyuki Sankai (Institute of Systems and Engineering, University 
of Tsukuba)講題 ”Hybrid Assistive Limb-Robot Suit HAL-“，內容豐富且符合感性主題
的研究發揮。 
    大會安排了豐富且多樣的論文發表，包含  Measurement、human expression、
impression、business、product development and evaluation、design… 等29項議題。而本次
International Conference on Kansei Engineering and Emotion Research 2007  1/4 
 以及台灣藝術大學工藝所研究生、雲林科技大學工設所研究生、大同大學工
設所研究生、華梵大學工設所研究生，共計8人參加。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
本次「感性工程與感情研究國際會議」的舉辦，除了廣泛的推廣來自於日本與韓國
等主辦單位的感性工學研究成果外，台灣的學者論文主題寬廣，內容豐富，對於不同國
家的文化內容作感性交流是本次與會的一大收穫。在不斷追求產品的內容與感性的消費
者年代，感性工學與情感研究應用就顯得相當重要。更進一步把關於文化與環境的議題
結合感性工學也是未來的研究趨勢。感性工學對於產品設計的重要，已經被視為是產品
設計必須要關注的重點。 
第一天的 keynote speech，Paul Hekkert (President, Design & Emotion Society)主講
“The product as a mediator : Understanding and designing for experience”的內容中，不僅提
到了感性的測量不同於只重視覺方面的產品研究，聽覺的測試更是有趣，也強調五感的
內容已經慢慢的在產品之中被重視。在台灣，關於感性工學的研究雖不如日本等國發展
多年的成果豐富，但一直不斷的以文化、以知覺內容作嘗試去進行的研究方向，還是能
在這次的日本國際感性工學與感情研究會議得到好評，這也是未來努力的推力之一。筆
者相信未來更多的學者加入研究行列，以不同方向、跨不同的領域去研究感性工學，將
會有更豐碩的成果。從本研討會中所羅列的29項議程即可得知，對於感性工學的研究領
域實在廣泛，未來這方面的學術研究將未可限量。  
  
三、考察參觀活動  
     應日本札幌市立大學之邀，前往作教學觀摩與校園參訪之行。 
     
日本札幌市立大學參觀剪影 
 
International Conference on Kansei Engineering and Emotion Research 2007  3/4 
