中文摘要 
關鍵字: 非極性, 氮化鎵, 氮化鎵銦/氮化鎵多層量子井, 側向磊晶成長, 綠光發光二極
體. 
    本計劃利用有機金屬氣相磊晶系統成長高品質之非極性 a 平面氮化鎵薄膜，並且引用
氮化矽嵌入層以及側向磊晶成長的技術，以改善氮化鎵磊晶薄膜品質且降低樣品缺陷密度。
隨後，為了進一步了解非極性量子井的光學特性及厚度的最佳化，我們成長了具不同量子
井厚度 3，6，9 以及 12 nm 的氮化鎵銦/氮化鎵量子井結構，發現當量子井厚度為 6 nm 時
具有最佳的發光效率，且當成長厚度逐漸增厚，時間解析光致激發光譜所得的載子復合時
間愈長，證明了在具有較厚的量子井結構由於會產生較多銦不均勻的現象，造成較多的侷
域能隙捕獲載子而延遲復合時間，此外，我們也成長了不同量子井銦含量(9，14，24 以及
30 %)的氮化鎵銦/氮化鎵量子井結構，由於量子侷限效應及載子區域聚集的現象增加，造成
活化能隨著銦含量的增加而增加，當銦含量達當 24%的量子井結構具有最高的活化能 110 
meV。 
藉由溝槽式側向磊晶的技術所開發的非極性藍光發光二極體在 140 mA 電流注入下發
光強度可達 0.2 mW；另一方面，在氮化鎵 Ga-face wing 的部分則會因為具有較快的側向成
長速度而產生較高的缺陷密度。利用氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵的超晶格來降低差排並且提升元件效
能，由穿透式電子顯微鏡的分析可以發現差排密度有效地由原本高達 3×1010 cm-2 降為
~9×10
9
 cm
-2 左右，另外電激發光的結果也顯示其發光強度可藉由超晶格結構提昇 3.42 倍。
我使用氮化鎵奈米柱結構經由側向磊晶的手法，在側向成長的區域可以得到高品質的氮化
鎵薄膜，大幅降低缺陷密度達 5×108 cm-2，我們利用此手法成長出的非極性藍光發光二極體，
在 100 毫安培操作下，發光強度可達 3.4 毫瓦，此元件與一般方式成長的非極化藍光發光
二極體的輸出功率提升約十倍。另一方面，在計劃執行期間，我們也成功開發出發光波長
落在 505 奈米綠光頻譜範圍的非極性發光二極體。其自發性極化光的比率高達 67.4%，若
能應用於液晶背光源，可望減少能源損耗。而隨著注入電流提高，其電激發光波長會隨之
而藍移直到 20 毫安培趨於穩定。此元件在 100 毫安培操作下，發光強度可達 240 微瓦。此
外，具有高外部量子效率特性之非極化氮化鎵藍綠光發光元件也在本計畫中有深入的討
論。 
最後，我們利用有機金屬化學氣相磊晶系統成長不同鋁含量之非極性 a 平面氮化鋁鎵
薄膜，藉由實驗證明在低鋁含量( 7% )下，可以成長出平整的表面，RMS 值為 1.18 nm 之
氮化鋁鎵薄膜。非極性氮化鋁鎵薄膜的光學性質及材料特性，我們成長了不同鋁含量(0~20%)
之氮化鋁鎵薄膜，其發光的波段已經可達 320 nm 紫外光波段，從 X-ray 繞射的量測結果發
現，非極性氮化鋁鎵薄膜之晶體品質會隨著不同的晶體方向以及鋁含量有顯著的變化。藉
由光致激發光譜的結果，我們也發現當鋁含量為 7%時有較佳的發光強度以及較窄的光譜半
高寬，其發光特性更優於在同一條件下所成的氮化鎵薄膜，由此推論，在氮化鎵薄膜成長
中加入微量鋁原子，也許可以藉由鋁原子提升鎵原子的遷移改善薄膜表面的平整；或者，
氮化鎵成長過程中所形成的缺陷可藉由微量的鋁原子進行填補。 
English Abstract 
Keyword: nonpolar, GaN, InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells, pattern template  
    High quality and smooth surface a-plane GaN is obtained at the high temperature and low 
relatively low Al content show better characteristic than that of the a-plane GaN and AlGaN with 
higher Al composition. We supposed that the enhancement of Ga migration or partially defects 
filled by the slight Al atom possibly result in the improvement of optical quality and surface 
morphology. Based on the experimental results in this project, the relationship between optical 
and structural characteristics of a-plane GaN-based materials presented here shall be beneficial to 
the growth and design visible, ultraviolet (UV), and deep UV optoelectronic devices. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
In the past, GaN-based semiconductor had attracted much attention for commercial applications 
in developing high quality optoelectronic devices. A number of studies have reported laser diodes and 
The experiments were carried out in the low-pressure metal-organic chemical vapor 
deposition (MOCVD) system. We used low-temperature AlN as nucleation layers instead of 
traditional GaN layers. The nucleation layer growth temperature and thickness were 600℃ and 
30 nm, respectively. The V/III ratio for the nucleation layer is 13800. In order to obtain suitable 
growth conditions for a-plane GaN films, influence of different pressures (100, 200, and 300 torr) 
and temperatures (1020, 1070 and 1120℃) on growth of 2μm thick GaN bulks was studied. 
Trimethylgallium (TMGa), trimethylaluminum (TMAl) and ammonia were used as Ga, Al and N 
sources, respectively. Then, we fixed the growth pressure and temperature, for which would 
result in the smoothest surface morphology, and changed different thickness of AlN nucleation 
layers from 30 nm to 15 and 45 nm. In addition, the V/III ratio for growth of the GaN bulk was 
adjusted from 900 to 600 and 1200, subsequently. The surface morphologies of all samples were 
characterized by scanning electronic microscopy (SEM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). 
(2) Improvement of crystal quality in a-plane GaN:  
Bulk a-plane GaN was grown on the r-plane sapphire using a low-pressure MOCVD system. 
Trimethylgallium (TMGa), tri-methylaluminum (TMAl), ammoniaandsilane (SiH4) were used as 
Ga, Al, N and Si sources, respectively. First, low-temperature AlN was used as the nucleation 
layer with layer growth temperature and thickness of 600 
0
C and 30 nm, respectively. The V/III 
ratio for the nucleation layer was 13800. 2 μm thick GaN layers were grown on the nucleation 
layer at temperature of 1120 
0
C and pressure of 1.33 × 10
4
 Pascal (Pa). In order to investigate the 
optimum position of SiNx insertion layer for the growth of a-plane GaN, we grew thin SiNx layers 
for 120 s at 600 
0
C and 4 × 10
4
 Pa at different positions in our structure. For case A, we grew the 
sample without using SiNx layer. We inserted the SiNx layer in the GaN / GaN interface (1 μm / 1 
μm) for case B, in the GaN / AlN interface for case C, and in the AlN / sapphire interface for case 
D. The schematic diagrams were inserted in Fig. 1. After determination of the optimal position of 
SiNx insertion layer, SiNx insertion layers with different growth times from 60 s to 180 s were 
also grown. 
In addition, the lattice mismatch between a-plane GaN and r-plane sapphire results in serious 
aniostropic in-plane strain difference between orthogonal crystal axes. Recently, successful 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth (ELOG) of a-plane GaN on r-plane sapphire has been reported [16]. 
According to the investigated results, the crystal quality of a-plane GaN film was also 
successfully improved by using trenched epitaxial lateral overgrowth (TELOG) and nanorod 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth (NRELOG) of a-plane GaN. Figure 2 shows the flow chart of the 
process sequence of the a-GaN template and subsequent TELOG. At first, the a-plane GaN 
templates with 1.5 μm thickness were grown with low pressure MOCVD on r-plane sapphire 
substrates using conventional two-step growth technique. After a series of conventional 
photolithography techniques, a 2-μm-seed/ 1.8-μm-trench TELOG stripe pattern was applied 
parallel to the [1100] direction to realize vertical c-plane sidewalls. Mask patterning was followed 
by etching of SiO2 using inductively coupled plasma etching through the windows to the GaN 
epitaxial film. GaN stripes were etching through the mask openings, down to the r-plane sapphire 
substrate by reactive ion etching. To simplify the growth process, the SiO2 mask was removed by 
hydrofluoric acid followed by depositing a-plane GaN TELOG film using a single-step growth 
substrates using conventional two-step growth technique. Then, SiO2 was deposited and 
patterned to realize a 2 μm seed/7 μm trench TELOG stripe pattern parallel to the [1100] 
direction (to obtain vertical c-plane sidewalls). SiO2 was etched using inductively coupled 
plasma etching through the windows to the GaN epitaxial film. The GaN in the trench areas 
(unprotected by SiO2) was etched by reactive-ion etching down to the r-plane sapphire substrate. 
The SiO2 mask was removed by hydrofluoric acid to simplify the growth process. We then 
continue to perform the regrowth process on 2 μm seed/7 μm trench stripe patterns to obtain a 
fully coalesced a-plane GaN template. Later, the LED structure was regrown by MOCVD on the 
a-plane TELOG GaN template. The LED structure consisted of 12-μm-thick TELOG GaN 
template, a 1.5-μm-thick Si-doped n-GaN with an electron concentration of 3×1018 cm3, a 
0.1-mm-thick n-GaN with an electron concentration of 1×10
18
 cm
3
, followed by the active region, 
which consisted of eight pairs of MQWs with 15-nm-thick GaN barriers and 5-nm-thick InGaN 
wells. A 30-nm-thick p-type Al0.1Ga0.9N electron blocking layer separated the active region 
from the 0.16-mm-thick p-type GaN with a hole concentration of 6×10
17
 cm
3
. After MOCVD 
growth, the LED wafer was partially etched by reactive-ion etching from the surface of the p-type 
GaN until the n-type GaN was exposed. Ni/Au contact metal layers were evaporated onto the 
p-type GaN contact layer, and a titanium/aluminum (Ti/Al) contact was evaporated onto the 
n-type GaN layer. 
(5) a-plane LEDs with InGaN/GaN superlattices:  
In the beginning, a low temperature GaN nucleation layer was grown by MOCVD on 
r-plane sapphire substrates, followed by the growth of 0.5-μm-thick high temperature GaN. Then, 
a superlattices comprising 20 pairs of 5-nm- thick In0.2Ga0.8N and 5-nm-thick GaN were inserted 
and subsequently a 1.5-µm-thick Si-doped n-GaN with an electron concentration of 3×10
18
 cm
-3
 
was grown. Afterward, a MQWs consisting 10 pairs of 6-nm-thick wells and 15-nm-thick barriers 
was grown at a temperature of 827℃ and capped by a 0.15-µm-thick p-GaN layer with a hole 
concentration of 6×1017 cm-3. The 300×300 μm2 diode mesas were defined by chlorine-based 
reactive ion etching. Ti/Au (100/200 nm) and Ti/Al/Pt/Au (30/180/40/150 nm) were used as 
p-GaN and n-GaN contacts, respectively. 
(6) a-plane LEDs with nanorod epitaxial lateral overgrowth (NRELOG) technology: 
    According to the earlier experiment results, we fabricated the LED structure on the a-plane 
GaN nanorod template. A 2-μm thick undoped GaN layer was regrown on nanorod template with 
1.7 μm etching depth, followed by a 1.6-μm thick n-type GaN layer with an electron 
concentration of 3×10
18
 cm
-3
. Then a six-period InGaN/GaN MQW active region is grown, 
consisting of 7-nm-thick In0.3Ga0.7N wells and 20-nm-thick GaN barriers. On top of the active 
region is 20-nm-thick p-Al0.18Ga0.82N electron blocking layer (EBL) and 0.2-μm-thick p-type 
GaN capping layer with a hole concentration of 1×10
18
 cm
−3
. After MOCVD growth, the LED 
wafer was partially etched by chlorine-based reactive ion etching from the surface of the p-type 
GaN until the n-type GaN was exposed. Indium-tin-oxide (230 nm) layer is used as the 
transparent p-contact and finally Cr/Au (100/200 nm) are deposited to be the p-GaN and n-GaN 
contact pads.  
case of the a-plane sample, a polarized angle of 0 degrees is defined to be parallel to the 
c-axis         while the 90 degrees is along m-axis        . The optical polarization emission 
was also simulated by     method for calculating the dispersion relation of the valence-band 
and the corresponding wave functions to explain the issue of valence-band states mixing.  
 
Fig. 1. Structural schematic diagrams of the a-plane GaN grown via inserting the SiNx layer in 
different positions. 
 
Fig. 2. Flow chart of a-plane GaN TELOG process. 
 
Fig. 3. Flowchart of a-plane GaN NRELOG process. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
surface with a root mean square (RMS) roughness of only 10.5 Å . Such roughness was far less 
than the previous report by Ni et al., whose sample was grown at lower growth temperature on a 
thicker nucleation layer [19].However, when we used AlN nucleation layers with thickness 
thinner and thicker than 30 nm, the surface morphologies would get worse along with many pits 
with sizes around 100 nm. Owing to the fact that each GaN column could be grown from GaN 
nucleus formed on top of each columnar AlN region, the columns of AlN should have optimal 
disordered orientations for GaN growth. Once the thickness of AlN nucleation layer has been 
changed, it could cause the variation of disordered orientations and degrade the surface 
morphology. On the other hand, the surface morphology got worse when the V/III ratio was 
increased or decreased from 900. The high V/III ratio led to high NH3 flow and further produced 
more amounts of hydrogen during the growth process. Some pits distributed on the surface, under 
the high V/III ratio, could be due to the excess hydrogen facilitating the surface dissociation rate 
and damaging the surface morphology [20]. Although the low V/III ratio condition benefits the 
2D growth, some Ga atoms would not react with insufficient N atoms causing a wavy surface. To 
sum up the above discussions, we suggest that both the thickness of nucleation layer and the V/III 
ratio have optimal values to grow an a-plane GaN bulk. 
 
Fig. 4. OM images of a-plane GaN surfaces for growth temperatures of 1020~1120℃ and 
pressures of 100~300 Torr. 
 
Fig. 5. SEM images of a-plane GaN surfaces for growth temperatures of 1020~1120℃ and 
pressures of 100~300 Torr. 
XRD results were decreased from 797 to 712 arcsec for [0001] direction and from 1056 to 977 
arcsec for [1100] directions. As a result, both AFM and XRD experiments indicated that the SiNx 
layer inserted on r-plane sapphire could improve the crystal quality and suppress more 
dislocations caused by lattice mismatch between sapphire and epitaxial layer. Figure 9 shows the 
top view SEM images for samples of case A to case D. The surface morphology of the sample 
without SiNx insertion layer existed a lot of tiny pits. In contrast, the samples using SiNx insertion 
layer closer to sapphire substrate possess better surface morphology. 
After determination of the optimal position of the SiNx insertion layer, the effect of different 
SiNx deposition times was investigated. Different SiNx insertion layers with deposition times 
from 60 s to 180 s were grown directly on r-plane sapphire followed by the nucleation layer AlN 
and bulk GaN. Figure 10 shows the tilted AFM images of a-plane GaN templates with different 
SiNx deposition times. There were several triangle pits on the surface of the a-plane GaN for SiNx 
deposition times of 60 s and 180 s, but not for the deposition time of 120 s. The surface 
morphology got worse when the SiNx deposition time was increased or decreased from 120 s. 
 
Fig. 7. AFM images of the a-plane GaN grown. 
 
Fig. 8. Rocking curves FWHMs of the a-plane GaN grown via inserting SiNx layer in different 
positions along [0001] c and [1100] m directions. 
of x-ray rocking curves for a TELOG layer was only reduced from 973 to 816 arc sec, the crystal 
quality would be better as the TELOG film fully coalesced to lessen wing tilt phenomenon. 
We then continue to perform the TELOG process with a 2 μm seed /18 μm trench stripe pattern 
to obtain a fully coalesced a-plane GaN film, as shown in the SEM image of Fig. 13. The 
coalescence process can fully be completed for the thickness around 10 μm, it is a useful 
technique to overcome the thickness problem that the previous ELOG always needs more than 30 
μm to fully coalesce. The FWHM of x-ray curves can be reduced to 385 arc sec in [0001] and 
260 arc sec in [1100] directions without wing tilt phenomenon demonstrating not only a high 
crystal quality but also an isotropic characteristic of a-plane TELOG GaN films. 
The distributions and types of dislocations were investigated by cross-sectional TEM shown 
in Figs. 14 (a) and 14 (b). According to the g=(0002) and g=(1120) two beam bright field images, 
most of the threading dislocations are obvious in both of the g=(1120) and (0002) two beam 
conditions, indicating that these dislocations are mixed a+c type dislocations. The threading 
dislocation densities (TDDs) of stripped GaN seed in region 2 was more than 11010 cm−2. TDD 
of Ga-face GaN wing in region 4 was about 9109 cm−2 and TDD of N-face GaN wing in region 
1 was about 3107 cm−2, three orders of magnitude lower than planar films. Because the lateral 
growth mode could be affected when the laterally grown layers encounters the underlying GaN 
layers, we suggest that the crystal quality of Ga-face GaN with a higher growth rate could be 
easily affected by the thin a-GaN layer grown on the bottom of the uncoalesced windows. Due to 
the relatively low growth rate of the thin a-GaN layer on the bottom of the trench, the crystal 
quality of the Ga-face GaN wing at the beginning of the lateral growth was good while the thin 
a-GaN layer was not formed, resulting in a low dislocation area of region 3. According to the 
results of SEM image, the rough GaN layer grown on the window of TELOG without smooth 
nucleation layer is difficult to grow more than 0.2 μm. As a result, to obtain a better crystal 
quality a-plane TELOG GaN for the most of the area, the trench depth shall be down to at least 
0.2 μm deeper than the sapphire surface to prevent the coalescing between the TELOG layer and 
thin GaN layer. 
       
Fig. 11. (Left) Cross-sectional SEM of the uncoalesced TELOG a-plane GaN film with 2 μm 
seed/18 μm trench pattern. 
Fig. 12. (Right) X-ray rocking curves of as-grown and TELOG a-plane GaN films (a) along 
[0001] direction (b) along [1100] direction. 
sample (nearly 4.1 nm). 
A high-resolution x-ray diffractometer (Bede D1) with a Cu target was employed to 
investigate the crystalline quality of GaN epilayers. All data are collected at 40 KV, 50 mA using 
a line focus x-ray source with 10 arcsec per step. The omega x-ray rocking curves (XRCs) 
on-axis (1120) and off-axis (1101) reflections for the as-grown (1.5/10 μm thickness) and 
NRELOG a-plane GaN samples were measured as shown in Figs. 16 (a) and (b), respectively. It 
revealed that the on- and off-axis full width at half maximum (FWHM) were narrowed with 
increasing layer thickness due to the inclination in bulk epitaxial GaN growth. Moreover, the 
XRC FWHMs of the NRELOG sample on-axis and off-axis reflections were further reduced 
from 903 to 430 arc sec and from 1821 to 1148 arc sec with respect to the as-grown sample with 
10 μm thickness. In comparison with the FWHMs of the as-grown and NRELOG samples grown 
to similar thickness, it is evident that the crystal quality of the a-plane GaN epilayer indeed could 
be improved with the NRELOG technique. On the basis of previous literature [22-23, 25-26] the 
on-axis FWHM value of NRELOG samples (430 arc sec) is even narrower than that of the SiNx 
nanomask LEO (900 arcsec)/ single-step ELOG sample (612 arcsec) and is comparable to that of 
either SALE or sidewall LEO sample (~324 arcsec).  
The typical bright-field cross-sectional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image near 
(1100) zone axis of the NRELOG sample is shown in Fig. 17 (a). Inset presents the 
corresponding electron diffraction pattern. The yellow dotted lines represent the contour of GaN 
nanorods. Regions I and II show the nanorod template and the GaN regrowth epilayer, 
respectively. From the TEM image, it is obvious that TD density in region II is much lower than 
that in region I. The mechanism of TD reduction by NRELOG is similar to the previous LEO 
methods. The GaN seeds initially grown on the a-plane nanorods are the windows, and the 
subsequent lateral overgrown GaN are the wings. We can observe that the dislocation lines from 
region I penetrated into region II via the nanorods (windows). In contrast, the GaN wing between 
two nanorods was essentially free of dislocations. The average TD density in region II was 
estimated to be 3.5×10
8
 cm
−2
, which was about two orders of magnitude lower than that in region 
I (3×10
10
 cm
−2
). In addition, the stacking fault (SF) was observed from the plan-view TEM image 
near (1120) zone axis as shown in Fig. 17 (b). The SF density was estimated to be 2×10
5
 cm
−1
, 
which was decreased by a factor of 2–3 compared to that of as-grown sample. We believe that the 
TD and SF density could be further decreased while the optimization of nanorod parameter is 
performed. Though detailed experiments, we obtained that the crystal quality will be improved 
with increasing the GaN nanorod etching depth [27]. 
(3) Characteristics of the a-plane GaN-based multiple quantum wells: 
In this part, we report on a well width dependent and a power dependent study of non-polar 
a-plane InGaN/GaN MQWs using PL and low temperature time-resolved PL measurements. 
Cathodoluminescence (CL) images and scanning micro-PL images show the surface emission 
regions of the samples, indicating the relation between well width and crystal quality of a-plane 
InGaN/GaN MQWs grown on r-plane sapphire. Figure 18 (a) shows the low temperature 
time-resolved PL decay for samples with different well width. Since the measurement was carried 
out at 15 K, the influence of the non-radiative recombination process could be excluded [28]. All 
experiment data was fitted by an exponential and a stretched exponential line shape I(t) = 
I1(0)exp(−t/τ1)+I2(0)exp[−(t/τ2)
β
], which has been used to analyze the emission characteristics of 
non-polar InGaN/GaN MQWs [4, 28]. The parameter I(t) means the PL intensity at time t, β is the 
dimensionality of the localizing centers, τ1 and τ2 are the initial lifetimes of carriers. The fast 
decay time (τ1 = 0.57-1.41 ns) represents the radiative recombination of free excitons and the 
relaxation of QW excitons from free or extended states towards localized states. The slow decay 
time (τ2 = 3.06-22.49 ns) accounts for communication between localized states and the radiative 
lifetime of localized excitons. Figure 18 (b) shows the relation between ln{ln[I(0) / I(t)]} and ln(t) 
for the data in Fig. 18 (a). We have obtained fast free and bound exciton decay times of 0.57 ns and 
3.06 ns for the a-plane MQWs with 3-nm well width in comparison to the values of > 6 ns reported 
for c-plane MQWs [3]. However, both the PL decay times τ1 and τ2 increased apparently with the 
QW width shown in Fig. 18. In general, growing a thicker well with a longer growth time could 
easily cause fluctuation of In diffusion path and form worse interfaces between wells and barriers. 
The more degree of In separation could result in the more localized states between conduction band 
and valence band. Therefore, more localized states in the thicker well could trap parts of carriers 
transited from higher levels to lower levels and further delay both lifetimes of τ1 and τ2. The longer 
exciton lifetime would decrease the PL emission intensity, which also could correspond to the PL 
results of peak emission intensity. We also analyzed the decay time corresponding to different 
energy of PL spectra at 9 K and found that the decay time on the lower energy side of the PL peaks 
were slower than that on the higher energy side, which could provide evidence of inhomogeneously 
broadened localization effect.  
Figure 19 shows the CL and μ-PL emission images for samples with 3 to 12 nm well width 
using optical filters at corresponding peak emission wavelength. The samples with thinner wells 
exhibited many relatively large and uniform luminescence patterns, indicating a higher crystal 
quality of the a-plane InGaN/GaN MQWs. On the contrary, the sample with 12 nm-thick wells 
showed few and small luminescence patterns, demonstrating a high degree inhomogeneity and 
worse crystal quality of the MQWs. Such results were similar to the results of μ-PL mapping 
shown in Fig. 19 (b). This image revealed the intensity of emission would gradually decrease with 
increasing well width, which was consistent with PL results. As a result, the CL images and μ-PL 
mapping could evidence that increasing well width will increase more localized states and obtain 
poor luminescence efficiency, corresponding to the same results obtained by PL and TRPL 
measurements. 
(lower energy emission) and 491, 457, 416, and 375 ps in PH (higher energy emission) for indium 
composition changing from 9% to 30%. It first shows that the PL peaks have shorter lifetime than 
PH peaks in all samples. The results of shorter lifetime of PL coincide with the stronger emission 
intensity than the PH showing in the inset of Fig. 20, since it corresponds to a higher 
recombination rate at low temperature. Therefore, it is reasonable to assign the PH and PL to 
MQWs-related and localized states emission, respectively. Second, the carrier lifetime of PL 
slightly decreased as indium composition is below 24%, but dropped from 391 to 289 ps as the 
indium composition increased from 24% to 30%. As expected, the integrated PL intensity is 
reversely proportional to the carrier lifetime as x is below 24%. However, contrary to our 
expectations, the PL intensity of the sample with 30% indium composition drops to about only 
1/5 compared to the luminescence intensity of the sample with 24% indium composition. It is 
known that the nonradiative lifetime is much shorter than radiative lifetime, so the appreciable 
reduction in lifetime and PL intensity revealed the fact of large number of nonradiative centers in 
the sample with 30% indium composition [31]. For the InGaN alloy system, nanoscale 
fluctuations in the local indium concentration are expected to form easily and produce more 
disorder. Therefore, the carrier recombination is probably determined by another nonradiative 
mechanism. Further evidence of indium phase segregation by CL image mapping will be 
discussed later. In addition, the lifetime extracted from the a-plane samples under 15 K is much 
shorter (<0.5 ns) than that of c-plane MQWs reported in previous literature [~5.8 ns (Ref. 6)]. 
Taking luminescence efficiency into consideration, CL mapping measurement could provide 
constructive information. Figure 21 shows the CL images of the four samples with a JEOL-JSM 
6500 scanning electron microscope under an accelerating voltage of 15 kV at room temperature. 
The four images were scanned at monitoring the respective peak emission wavelength. At first 
glance, the nonuniform emission patterns are observed from all samples, which were mainly due 
to the indium composition fluctuation and the phase separation [32]. Interestingly, it is found that, 
with the increase in indium composition, the emission area and intensity gradually increase and, 
hence, exhibit a better uniformity emission pattern, except for the sample with highest indium 
compositions. It suggests that In0.24Ga0.76N/GaN MQWs sample has relatively higher 
luminescence efficiency among these samples. 
 
Fig. 20. The measured lifetime of PH and PL peaks for samples with different In compositions at 
15 K. The inset shows the measured PL spectra of the four samples. 
    Non-polar GaN films have been shown to exhibit optically polarized spontaneous emission, 
which is explained by the crystal field oriented along the c-axis of wurtzite GaN and its effect on 
the valence-band splitting induced by large compressive strain within the wells. Figure 25 shows 
the EL intensity of UV spectral range at different polarization angles at room temperature, as the 
operation current is 80 mA. The degree of polarization is estimated to be about 28.7%. The lower 
degree of polarization could be explained that an increase in device temperature is first due to the 
ambient temperature and then by current injection and consequently the higher energy valence 
band minimum with polarization parallel to the c-axis filled with holes, or by population of the 
valence band from the minimum up to higher energy levels as the hole density increases with 
forward bias [33]. 
 
Fig. 22. (a) Structure of the ultraviolet nonpolar TELOG LED (b) Cross-sectional SEM image of 
a TELOG a-plane LED with 2 μm seed/7 μm trench patterns. 
 
Fig. 23. (a) Plan-view SEM image, including seed regions and wing regions (b) monochromatic 
CL image at 373nm and (c) monochromatic CL image at 443 nm. 
a b 
in GaN and prevent the excess photo-generated carriers from being injected into MQWs. 
Therefore, the effective excitation conditions are the same for the MQWs grown on the templates 
with and without superlattices. Sample .1 and Sample .2 are the a-plane LED without and with 
InGaN/GaN superlattices, respectively. Figure 27 (a) and (b) show the normalized integrated PL 
as a function of 1000/T for Sample.1 and Sample.2, respectively, wherein the thermal activation 
energies of 86.15 and 118.7 meV were estimated from the Arrhenius plots. Furthermore, the 
integrated PL intensity ratio obtained at 90 and 300 K [IPL(300 K) / IPL(90 K)] for Sample.2, 
which is approximately 16%, is larger than that of Sample.1 (nearly 10.3%). In general, the 
temperature-induced quenching of luminescence involves the thermal emission of charge carriers 
out from confined quantum-well states into barrier states, the thermal dissociation of excitons into 
free electron–hole pairs, and the thermal activation of excitons to non-radiative defect states. 
Therefore, the thermal activation energy is a quantity to measure the exciton binding energy or 
the energy difference between the energy of the quantum-well confined state and the barrier 
continuum state or defect state. As a result, the carrier confinement of a-plane MQWs was indeed 
enhanced in terms of activity energy estimation by introducing InGaN/GaN superlattices. 
Room-temperature EL spectra under 20 mA injection current is shown in Fig. 28 (a). The 
same emission peaks were located at 449 nm for both samples. The EL full width at half 
maximum (FWHM) of Sample.2 was measured as 28.7 nm, which was narrower than that of 
Sample.1 (FWHM =35.8 nm). The L-I-V curves were measured to further demonstrate the 
performance enhancement of a-plane LEDs with InGaN/GaN superlattices as shown in Fig. 28 
(b). These two I-V curves exhibited similar shapes, indicating that the absence of the degradation 
of electrical characteristics with the insertion of superlattices. The forward voltages of Sample.1 
and Sample.2 were both 4.25 volts at 20 mA operating current. The series resistances of Sample.1 
and Sample.2 were estimated to be ~24 Ω. The output power of Sample.2 had a 3.42-fold and 
2.86-fold increase compared with those of Sample.1 at 20 and 100 mA injection current, 
respectively. Such an apparent enhancement was attributed to the dislocation reduction and the 
improvement of the MQW quality upon inserting InGaN/GaN superlattices.  
The a-plane (In,Ga)N films suffer from anisotropic in-plane compressive strain in the x–y 
plane (x is oriented along [1100], y is oriented along [1120], and z is oriented along [0001] of the 
wurtzite crystal and the original        -like valence-band states of unstrained wurtzite crystal 
are split into     -liked and     -liked states. The energy of the    -like state is raised by the 
strain, while that of the     -like state is pushed down to below that of the     -like state (see the 
inset of Fig. 29). The degree of polarization of Sample 2, which was estimated to be 
approximately 56.3%, was larger than that of Sample 1 (nearly 27.4%). There are two possible 
reasons that account for this phenomenon. First, the TDs in GaN act as nonradiative 
recombination centers and could restrict the carrier transitions from the bottom of the conduction 
band to the topmost    -like state. Since the superlattices can reduce the dislocation density, the 
severe interruption of selective carrier transition was reduced. The other reason is that the 
superlattices may amplify the anisotropic in-plane compressive strain experienced by the MQWs 
and consequently give rise to a higher transition energy difference between the     -like state 
and     -like state. As a result, the polarized characteristic of a-plane LEDs with superlattices 
was enhanced. 
(6) a-plane LEDs with nanorod epitaxial lateral overgrowth (NRELOG) technology: 
    A high-resolution x-ray diffractometer (Bede D1) with a Cu target was employed to 
investigate the crystalline quality of GaN epilayers. All data are collected at 40 KV, 50 mA using 
a line focus x-ray source with 10 arcsec per step. The omega x-ray rocking curves (XRCs) 
on-axis (1120) and off-axis (1101) reflections for the as-grown (1.5/10 μm thickness) and 
NRELOG a-plane GaN samples were measured as shown in Figs. 30 (a) and (b), respectively. It 
revealed that the on- and off-axis full width at half maximum (FWHM) were narrowed with 
increasing layer thickness due to the inclination in bulk epitaxial GaN growth. Moreover, the 
XRC FWHMs of the NRELOG sample on-axis and off-axis reflections were further reduced 
from 903 to 430 arc sec and from 1821 to 1148 arc sec with respect to the as-grown sample with 
10 μm thickness. In comparison with the FWHMs of the as-grown and NRELOG samples grown 
to similar thickness, it is evident that the crystal quality of the a-plane GaN epilayer indeed could 
be improved with the NRELOG technique. On the basis of previous literature [22, 23-26] the 
on-axis FWHM value of NRELOG samples (430 arc sec) is even narrower than that of the SiNx 
nanomask LEO (900 arcsec)/ single-step ELOG sample (612 arcsec) and is comparable to that of 
either SALE or sidewall LEO sample (~324 arcsec).  
The typical bright-field cross-sectional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image near 
(1100) zone axis of the NRELOG sample is shown in Fig. 31 (a). Inset presents the 
corresponding electron diffraction pattern. The yellow dotted lines represent the contour of GaN 
nanorods. Regions I and II show the nanorod template and the GaN regrowth epilayer, 
respectively. From the TEM image, it is obvious that TD density in region II is much lower than 
that in region I. The mechanism of TD reduction by NRELOG is similar to the previous LEO 
methods. The GaN seeds initially grown on the a-plane nanorods are the windows, and the 
subsequent lateral overgrown GaN are the wings. We can observe that the dislocation lines from 
region I penetrated into region II via the nanorods (windows). In contrast, the GaN wing between 
two nanorods was essentially free of dislocations. The average TD density in region II was 
estimated to be 3.5×10
8
 cm
−2
, which was about two orders of magnitude lower than that in region 
I (3×10
10
 cm
−2
). In addition, the stacking fault (SF) was observed from the plan-view TEM image 
near (1120) zone axis as shown in Fig. 31 (b). The SF density was estimated to be 2×10
5
 cm
−1
, 
which was decreased by a factor of 2–3 compared to that of as-grown sample. We believe that the 
TD and SF density could be further decreased while the optimization of nanorod parameter is 
performed. Though detailed experiments, we obtained that the crystal quality will be improved 
with increasing the GaN nanorod etching depth [27]. Hence, we fabricated the LED structure on 
the high quality a-plane GaN template by using NRELOG. 
    The EL measurements are performed in an encapsulated chip form, in which all light output 
are collected into the integrating sphere with a Si photodetector. Figure 32 shows the EL spectra 
of a-plane NRELOG LED at drive current ranging from 1 to 50 mA. The spectrum apparently 
exhibits a multiple-peak feature and can be decomposed into two dominant peaks by Gaussian 
fitting, lower energy emission denoted by D1 and higher energy emission denoted by D2. At 
lower forward current of < 3 mA, the spectrum is dominated by the lower energy emission of D1 
peak. With the current increasing, the intensity of D2 peak raises much faster than of D1 peak 
 Fig. 32. (a) Electroluminescence spectra and (b) the dependence of peak energy shift on injected 
current.  
 
Fig. 33. Energy Dispersive Spectrometer (EDS) of a-plane MQWs on the defective region (Seed) 
and superior quality region (Wing) were shown. 
(7) Non-polar orientation green LEDs:  
In this topic, we fabricated a-plane and m-plane green LEDs on r-plane sapphire and 
m-plane GaN substrate, respectively. The structural features of InGaN/GaN MQWs are very 
important for device performance of LEDs, for instance, indium composition and interface. 
Therefore, the XRD measurement was performed on the a-plane MQWs sample to examine the 
well width and identify the indium compo-sition. Figure 34 shows a typical θ/2θ scans for the 
InGaN/GaN MQWs grown on the a-plane GaN template. Three clear satellite peaks could be 
found which indicated good crystal quality of the MQWs. The structural parameters of the 
quantum wells, well width could be calculated by analyzing the angular positions of the main 
satellite peaks and the growth time of wells and barriers. The indium composition of the quantum 
well was obtained around 20.1%, and the well and barrier thickness was estimated to be 45 and 
200 Å , respectively, for the MQWs grown on the a-plane GaN template.  
In Fig. 35 (a), the room temperature EL spectra of the a-plane LED was measured at drive 
currents ranging from 1 to 100 mA. The spectra was measured under pulsed bias (the pulse duty 
cycle = 10%) to prevent red shift of emis-sion peak due to the heating effect. The EL peak 
emis-sion first exhibited blue shift with the current increasing and then became constant at 506 
nm, which differed from that reported by Detchprohm et al [34]. They reported there was a red 
shift in the dominant peak as the drive current increased. The heating effect due to CW operation 
current density for c-plane LED and m-plane LED, respectively. The light output-current curve of 
the reference c-plane LED is linear at low current density but becomes sublinear at high current 
density, indicating a reduced EQE. Its peak efficiency occurs at ~5 A/cm
2
. Over this peak 
efficiency, the efficiency decreases rapidly. When the current density exceeds 100 A/cm
2
, the 
EQE is reduced to just 50% of its maximum value. In contrast, the m-plane LED exhibits only 
13% efficiency droop with increasing the injection current density to 100 A/cm
2
, which shows 
almost negligible droop. It is also noticeable that the characteristic current density, which marks 
the peak efficiency, is extended to ~23 A/cm
2
.  
Figure 39 (a) shows the calculated energy band diagram of the reference c-plane and 
m-plane LED at a forward current of 20 mA. For the c-plane LED, as a result of the polarization 
charges, a severe situation of band bending, i.e., sloped triangular barriers and wells, is observed. 
Furthermore, the conduction band slopes upward while it approaches to the MQW active region 
from the n-GaN side and consequently the conduction band close to n-GaN is higher than the 
conduction band close to p-GaN, which results in a large electron leakage current. Even though 
an AlGaN EBL is introduced, the electron current overflows out of the MQW region even at a 
low current of 20 mA. With increasing the forward current to 100 mA, the electron leakage 
becomes more severe, as shown in Fig. 39 (b). The electrons escaped from MQW active region 
are not contributed to radiative recombination and thereby lower the LED efficiency. This reveals 
the electron leakage current due to polarization fields is one of the dominated mechanisms that 
results in efficiency droop. In the m-plane LED, because of the absence of polarization fields, its 
GaN barriers do not exhibit triangular shape and the conduction band near p-GaN side is now 
higher than that near n-GaN side. As a result, the electron leakage current as well as efficiency 
droop is reduced significantly. 
Figure 40 shows the carrier distribution in the whole InGaN/GaN MQWs structure at 20 mA 
forward current for the m-plane LED and the c-plane LED. It is obvious that in the c-plane LED 
both electrons and holes distributions are quite nonuniform among the quantum wells especially 
for holes. This is because holes have a relatively larger effective mass and therefore a very low 
mobility. Moreover, the triangular potential barriers which result from polarization fields hinder 
the holes transport throughout the active region as well. Under these circumstances, a large 
amount of minority carrier holes accumulate in the last well next to the p-GaN side, which means 
only the last quantum well next to p-GaN contributes to radiative recombination in the c-plane 
LED. It results in two circumstances. One is inefficient recombination with electrons in the other 
five wells increases the excess electron density and thus enhances the electron leakage. Second is 
the higher carrier density accumulated in the last well of c-plane LEDs, as compared with the 
m-plane LEDs, causes the greater radiative recombination rate relative to the nonradiative 
recombination rate, which is responsible for that the c-plane LEDs reach maximum efficiency at 
much lower current density than the m-plane LEDs do. In addition, in a recent paper, Shen and 
co-workers demonstrate that the Auger recombination coefficient is ~2×10
-30
 cm
6
 s
−1
 rather than 
a previous accepted value of 1×10
−34
 cm
6
 s
−1
, which is large enough to significantly decrease the 
internal quantum efficiency of InGaN/GaN MQW LEDs at their standard operating currents [28]. 
Since the carrier density accumulated in the c-plane MQWs is larger than that in the m-plane 
MQWs at the same forward current, it is expected that the Auger recombination rate in the 
 Fig. 36. Output power and EQE as a function of drive current. Inset shows the I-V characteristic 
of green LED under forward bias. 
 
Fig. 37. Variation of EL intensity with angular orientation of the polarizer at 20 mA operation 
current. 
 
Fig. 38. Integrated EL intensity and normalized EQE as a function of forward current density for 
c-plane LED and m-plane LED, respectively. Both samples have the same MQW active region 
and EBL structure. 
(8) Growth of a-plane GaN-based material alloys 
In this study, we reported the non-polar a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys with different Al 
compositions ( 2.00  x ). The structures were grown by low-pressure metal organic chemical 
vapor deposition (MOCVD) system and the emission wavelengths from different AlxGa1-xN 
alloys cover the energy range from 3.42 eV to 3.87 eV with increasing the Al composition x. The 
relationship between the AlGaN growth rate and the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) 
was investigated in this systematic study. Furthermore, the optical characteristics and surface 
morphology of the AlxGa1-xN alloys were discussed as well.  
The Al compositions x of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN alloys were estimated by performing the 
high-resolution X-ray diffraction ω/2θ scan. As can be seen in Fig 42, the Al composition x 
increases from 0 to 0.2 with increasing molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) from 0 to 0.44, 
and the Al composition increases with the molar flux ratio deviates from the linear relationship 
especially for high Al composition. Moreover, the Al incorporation efficiency in AlGaN alloys 
grown on r-plane sapphire substrates is relatively lower than that of the c-plane AlGaN layers 
grown on c-plane sapphire substrates when the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) is the 
same [38, 39, 40], which could be due to the different adatom diffusivities on the different 
orientation sapphire substrate [41], or associated with the different lattice mismatches between 
AlGaN and GaN on the different orientation sapphire substrate. Higher growth temperature and 
optimal ratio of TMAl/TMGa may improve the Al incorporation efficiency of the a-plane AlGaN 
alloys with higher Al composition [42, 43]. Furthermore, the nearly linear relationship between 
the AlGaN growth rate and the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) was observed [Fig. 42].  
Fig. 43(a) shows high-resolution X-ray diffraction ω/2θ scan for the a-plane AlxGa1-xN 
alloys, and the Al composition x was estimated by the XRD diffraction angle separation between 
AlGaN and GaN peaks, which split from 460 arcsec to 1140 arcsec, i.e. the Al compositions x 
vary from 0 to 20%. Fig. 43(b) shows the full width at half maximum (FWHM) of the X-ray 
rocking curves (XRC) along the c-direction and m-direction taken around (1120) diffraction peak 
for the five a-plane AlGaN samples with different Al composition. The results indicate that the 
XRC FWHM value along the c-direction increases from 760 to 1260 arcsec with increasing Al 
composition, which are attributed to the degradation of the AlGaN crystal quality caused by 
strain-induced dislocation. The growth of a-plane AlGaN/GaN heterostructure makes a large 
anisotropic biaxial tensile strain in AlGaN epilayer due to the lattice mismatch between GaN and 
AlGaN. It is proved that the in-plane biaxial tensile strain increases with increasing Al 
composition in AlxGa1xN layers, and the in-plane tensile strain of a-plane AlGaN layer in the 
c-axis direction is larger than that in the m-axis direction [44]. Besides, Craven et al. presented 
that on-axis (1120) peak widths are broadened by screw and mixed dislocations while off-axis 
( 1110 ) widths are broadened by edge-component TDs, and pure screw dislocation will have 
Burgers vectors aligned along a-direction (b= [1120])while pure edge dislocation will have b=
 [ 0001][16]. Therefore, the edge dislocation density increases with increasing Al composition. 
However, the XRC FWHM value along the m-direction decreases from 885 arcsec to 775 arcsec 
with increasing Al composition. Fig. 43 (b) shows XRC FWHM value along m-axis direction 
with the increase of Al composition.  
function of Al composition are summarized in Fig. 48 (c). It is noteworthy that the PL emission 
peak intensity of the Al0.07Ga0.93N is lightly stronger than GaN sample. The PL intensity 
reduces and linewidth broadens with increasing Al composition from 7% to 20%, which due to 
the increase of nonradiative recombination process and alloy disorder, respectively. According to 
the measured results of the emission intensities and FWHM values, the optical property and 
crystal quality of the a-plane AlGaN alloy with relatively lower Al composition are probably 
better than other AlGaN and GaN samples. From the surface and optical measurements, the 
AlGaN alloy with Al composition 7 % reveals the slightly better surface morphology and optical 
properties, which could be due to the nearly isotropic in-plane strain [51]. 
 
Fig. 42. The relation between the growth rate (right-axis) and the Al composition x (left-axis) as 
the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa). 
 
Fig. 43. (a) The XRD ω/2θ scan spectra for a-plane alloys. (b) The full width of high 
maximum (FWHM) of XRD rocking curves along the c-direction [0001] and m-direction [1100] 
with different Al composition x from 0 to 20%. 
 Fig. 48. (a) PL spectra for a-plane AlGaN alloys with different Al content measured at room 
temperature. (b) Band gap energies of a-plane AlxGa1-xN. (c) The relation between the PL 
intensities (left-axis) and the PL FWHM values (right-axis) as the Al composition x. 
Afterward, the optical polarization properties of a-plane AlxGa1-xN films have been 
investigated by polarization-dependent photoluminescence (PL). The degree of polarization 
decreased with increasing the Al composition, and the main optical polarization direction 
switched from     to     at about x = 0.07 due to the valence band switching, representing 
that the optical transition energy of     is surpassing that of     . However, with the Al 
composition larger than x = 0.1, the higher energy optical transitions of     exhibited the 
stronger PL intensity, opposite to the normal situations that higher energy states commonly have 
weaker PL intensity than the lower energy states. We utilized the         model and the 
lambertian-like radiation pattern assumption to explain this abnormal optical polarization 
switching behavior in the a-plane AlxGa1-xN layers and obtained good agreement with the 
experimental results.  
Fig. 49 (a) shows the spontaneous emission spectrum of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN films with 
different Al compositions (        ) at room-temperature. The dominant emission peak is 
attributed to the near-band-edge transition. The emission peak energy shifts to higher energy with 
increasing the Al composition x for both polarization direction. The degree of polarization (DOP) 
is defined as                  , where    and    are the PL intensity for two orthogonal 
polarization directions. The Al composition dependence of the DOP for a-plane AlxGa1-xN films 
with polar angle   ranging from 0 to 360 degrees is shown in Fig. 50. A distinct switch of 
dominant polarization direction from        to        can be observed with increasing the 
Al composition due to the valence band switching between x=0.07 and x=0.1, where   
represents the electric field. The peak energy shift is defined as               , where 
     and      are the peak energy for the polarization directions of     and     , 
respectively. The DOP and    of the investigated a-plane AlxGa1-xN films with different x are 
listed in Table 1. Interestingly, not only the dominant polarization direction is switched as 
increasing the Al composition, but the main PL intensity is switched from the lower optical 
energy level transition (    ) to higher optical energy level transition (    ) as shown in Fig. 1(a). 
This abnormal polarization switching phenomenon is opposite to the normal situations that higher 
energy states commonly have weaker PL intensity than the lower energy states due to the carrier 
distribution and probability of recombination of electrons and holes.  
To investigate the light emission polarization properties and to explain the abnormal 
   would be partly affected by the projection of the x-polarized light, originated from the optical 
transition from the conduction band to the      band as shown in Fig. 52. For the low Al 
composition case, the predominant optical transitions are contributed by the two topmost      
and      bands, comprising the main polarized emission along       direction. On the other 
hand, for the higher Al composition case, the fractional contribution from the      band 
combining with that from the      bands constitutes the weaker PL emission along       
with a smaller peak energy shown in Fig. 52 (a). As a result, the spectrum shows the abnormal 
behavior that the stronger PL emission along       belongs to a higher peak energy shown in 
Fig. 52 (b).  
 
Table 1. The degree of polarization (                  ) and the difference of peak energy 
(             ) for a-plane AlxGa1-xN films are shown. 
 
Fig. 49. (a) Experiment measurements and (b) simulation calculation of the PL intensity and 
spontaneous emission rate of a-plane AlxGa1-xN films with the different aluminum compositions. 
CONCLUSIONS 
Non-polar a-plane GaN thin films were grown on r-plane sapphire substrates by metal-organic 
chemical vapor deposition. In order to obtain a-plane GaN films with better crystal quality and 
surface morphology, detailed comparisons between different growth conditions were investigated. 
The results showed that high-temperature and low-pressure conditions facilitating 
two-dimensional growth could lead to a fully coalesced a-plane GaN layer with a very smooth 
surface. The best mean roughness of the surface morphology was 10.5 Å . Subsequently, we 
utilized several approaches (such as SiNx insertion layer, TELOG, and NRELOG) to reduction of 
defect density and improvement of crystal quality in a-plane GaN. According to the experiment 
results, we have successfully determined the optimal position and thickness of the SiNx insertion 
layer, and the samples using SiNx insertion layer closer to sapphire substrate possess better 
surface morphology. For the TELOG technique, TDD of Ga-face GaN wing was about 9109 
cm
−2
 and TDD of N-face GaN wing was about 3107 cm−2, three orders of magnitude lower than 
planar films. To obtain a better crystal quality a-plane TELOG GaN for the most of the area, the 
trench depth shall be down to at least 0.2 μm deeper than the sapphire surface to prevent the 
coalescing between the TELOG layer and thin GaN layer. On the other hand, we have grown 
high-quality and fully coalesced a-plane GaN films by using NRELOG. The fully coalesced 
thickness (10 μm) of NRELOG sample was decreased by a factor of 2~4 with respect to the 
previous reported LEO techniques, such as ELOG, SALE, and sidewall LEO. The XRC FWHMs 
on- and off-axis reflections were decreased from 1308 to 430 arc sec and from 2420 to 1148 arc 
sec, respectively, demonstrating the strain mitigation and the improvement of the crystal quality 
by NRELOG. A series of experiments demonstrated the feasibility of using NRELOG technique 
to achieve the TD reduction, crystal quality improvement and the enhancement in luminescence 
performance in a-plane GaN.  
Afterward, ten pairs of a-plane InGaN/GaN MQWs of well width ranging from 3–12 nm 
grown by MOCVD on r-plane sapphire were investigated. The temperature dependent PL reveals 
that more uniform localization states, and all of the states have similar depth with similar depths 
for the samples with thinner well widths. In addition, more effective capturing of excitons due to 
larger localization energy Eloc and shorter radiative lifetime of localized excitons are observed in 
thinner well width samples by using temperature dependent TRPL. These phenomena are due to 
the better confinement of uniform and deep localized centers for excitons existing in the samples 
with thinner well widths, whereas more pronounced indium fluctuations or rougher interfaces in 
the MQWs exist in the samples with thicker well widths. Furthermore, a-plane InxGa1−xN/GaN 
(x=0.09, 0.14, 0.24, and 0.3) MQWs samples, with a well width of about 4.5 nm, were also 
achieved by utilizing r-plane sapphire substrates. While the indium composition was raised to 
24%, the increase in activation energy and decrease in carrier lifetime implied that more and 
deeper localized states formed and contribute to better quantum efficiency. However, the MQWs 
sample with 30% indium composition reveals dramatic reduction in activation energy and 
lifetime at low temperature. The observation implied the large numbers of defects formed in high 
indium samples, consistent with earlier literatures. Based on our studies, these results should 
provide useful guidance for the fabrication of light emitting devices using a-plane InGaN/GaN 
MQW structures.  
Finally, the non-polar a-plane AlxGa1−xN alloys with different Al composition have been 
grown by MOCVD system. The relationship between the AlGaN growth rate and the molar flux 
ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) was investigated in this systematic study. Besides, the optical 
characteristics and surface morphology of the AlxGa1-xN alloys were discussed as well. When 
increasing the molar flux ratio of TMAl/(TMAl+TMGa) from 0 to 0.44, the Al compositions of 
the a-plane AlxGa xN alloys are estimated to vary from 0 to 20% according to the XRD results. 
AlGaN layer is found to be coherently strained to the GaN template by analysing the (1122) and 
(0220) asymmetric XRD reciprocal space mappings (RSM). The smoothest surface with the RMS 
roughness of 1.18 nm, strongest PL emission intensity and narrowest PL linewidth are observed 
in the Al0.07Ga0.93N film. In addition, bowing value of b = 0.61 in the optical bandgap of a-plane 
AlxGa1-xN is obtained. Furthermore, the DOP decreases with increasing Al composition x. A 
distinct optical polarization switch is observed between x=0.07 to x=0.1 due to the valence band 
switching. In addition, we applied the     method with the lambertian-like emission pattern to 
obtain the E-k dispersion relation and the wave functions of the a-plane AlxGa1-xN layer. Base on 
this model, the calculation of the spontaneous emission spectra have a good agreement with the 
experimental results and the abnormal polarization switching phenomenon is explained. The 
relationship between optical and structural characteristics of a-plane AlGaN alloys presented here 
shall be beneficial to the growth and design UV and deep UV optoelectronic devices. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Su, and M. Asif Khan, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2 42, L640 (2003). 
[26] B. A. Haskell, F. Wu, M. D. Craven, S. Matsuda, P. T. Fini, T. Fujii, K. Fujito, S. P. 
DenBaars, J. S. Speck, and S. Nakamura, Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 644 (2003). 
[27] S. C. Ling, C. L. Chao, J. R. Chen, P. C. Liu, T. S. Ko, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, S. J. 
Cheng, and J. D. Tsay, J. Cryst. Growth 312, 1316 (2010). 
[28] T. Onuma, A. Chakraborty, B. A.Haskell, S. Keller, S. P. DenBaars, J. S. Speck, S. 
Nakamura, U. K. Mishra, Appl. Phys. Lett., 86,151918, (2005). 
[29] X. Chen, B. Henderson, and K. P. O’Donnell, Appl. Phys. Lett. 60, 2672 (1992). 
[30] T. Onuma, T. Koyama, A. Chakraborty, M. Mclaurin, B. A. Haskell, P. T. Fini, S. Keller, S. 
P. DenBaars, J. S. Speck, S. Nakamura, U. K. Mishra, T. Sota, and S. F. Chichibu, J. Vac. 
Sci. Technol. B 25, 1524 (2007). 
[31] S. F. Chichibu, T. Onuma, T. Aoyama, K. Nakajima, P. Ahmet, T. Chikyow, T. Sota, S. P. 
DenBaars, S. Nakamura, T. Kitamura, Y. Ishida, and H. Okumura, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 
21, 1856 (2003). 
[32] P. Waltereit, O. Brandt, M. Ramsteiner, A. Trampert, H. T. Grahn, J. Menniger, M. Reiche, 
and K. H. Ploog, J. Cryst. Growth 227–228, 437 (2001). 
[33] N.F. Gardner, J.C. Kim, J.J. Wierer, Y.C. Shen, M.R. Krames, Appl. Phys. Lett., 86, 111101 
(2005). 
[34] T. Detchprohm, M. Zhu, Y. Li, Y. Xia, C. Wetzel, E. A. Preble, L. Liu, T. Paskova, and D. 
Hanser, Appl. Phys. Lett., 92, 241109 (2008). 
[35] A. Chitnis, C. Chen, V. Adivarahan, M. Shatalov, E. Kuokstis, V. Mandavilli, J. Yang, and 
M. Asif Khan, Appl. Phys. Lett., 84, 3663 (2004). 
[36] S. C. Ling, T. C. Wang, T. S. Ko, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo and S. C. Wang, Journal of Crystal 
Growth , 310, 2330 (2008). 
[37] T. Koyama and T. Onuma, Appl. Phys. Lett., 89, 091906 (2006). 
[38] T.S. Ko, T.C. Wang, H.M. Huang, J.R. Chen, H.G. Chen, C.P. Chu, T.C. Lu , H.C. Kuo, and 
S.C. Wang, J. Cryst. Growth, 310 4972 (2008). 
[39] B. Liu, R. Zhang, Z.L. Xie, Q.J. Liu, Z. Zhang, Y. Li, X.Q. Xiu, J. Yao, Q. Mei, H. Zhao, P. 
Han, H. Lu, P. Chen, S.L. Gu, Y. Shi, Y.D. Zheng, W.Y. Cheung, N. Ke, and J.B. Xu, J. Cryst. 
Growth, 310 4499 (2008). 
[40] G. S. Huang, H. H. Yao, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, and S. C. Wang, J. Appl. Phys. 99 
104901-104911 (2006). 
[41] H. Zhou, S. J. Chua, and C. Peng, J. Cryst. Growth, 292 5 (2006). 
[42] D. B. Li, M. Aoki, T. Katsuno, H. Miyake, K. Hiramatsu, and T. Shibata, J. Cryst. Growth 
298 372 (2007). 
[43] N. Okada, N. Fujimoto, T. Kitano, G. Narita, M. Imura, K. Balakrishnan, M. Iwaya, S. 
Kamiyama, H. Amano, I. Akasaki, K. Shimono, T. Noro, T. Takagi and A. Bandoh, Jap. J. 
Appl. Phys. 45 2502 (2006). 
[44] M. Tsuda, H. Furukawa, A. Honshio, M. Iwaya, S. Kamiyama, H. Amano, and I. Akasaki, 
Jap. J. Appl. Phys. 45 2509 (2006). 
[45] Z. Chen, Y. Pei, S. Newman, D. Brown, R. Chung, S. Keller, S. P. DenBaars, S. Nakamura, 
and U. K. Mishra, Appl. Phys. Lett. 94 171117 (2009). 
[46] P. P. Paskov, R. Schifano, B. Monemar, T. Paskova, S. Figge, and D. Hommel, J. Appl. Phys. 
該計畫已有論文發表如下: 
[1] Te-Chung Wang, Tien-Chang Lu, Tsung-Shine Ko, Hao-Chung Kuo, Hou-Guang Chen, Min 
Yu, Chang-Cheng Chuo, Zheng-Hong Lee, Sing-Chung Wang, “Trenched Epitaxial Lateral 
Overgrowth of Fast Coalesced a-plane GaN with Low Dislocation Density”, Applied Physics 
Letters, 89, 251109-251111 (2006). 
[2] T. S. Ko, T. C. Wang, H. G.. Chen, R. C. Gao, Y. J. Lee, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, 
“InGaN/GaN nanostripe grown on pattern sapphire by metal organic chemical vapor 
deposition”, Applied Physics Letters, 90, 013110-013112 (2007) 
[3] T. S. Ko, T. C. Wang, R. C. Gao, H. G. Chen, G. S. Huang, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, 
“Study on optimal growth condition of a-plane GaN grown on r-plane sapphire by 
metal-organic chemical vapor deposition”, Journal of Crystal Growth, 300, 308-313 (2007). 
[4] T. S. Ko, T. C. Lu, T. C. Wang, M. H. Lo, J. R. Chen, R. C. Gao, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang and 
S. L. Shen, “Optical characteristics of a-plane InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells with 
different well widths”, Applied Physics Letters, 90, 181122-181124 (2007) and was selected 
in Virtual Journal of Ultrafast Science, Volume 6, Issue 6 (2007). 
[5] T. S. Ko, T. C. Wang, H. G. Chen, R. C. Gao, G. S. Huang, T. C. Lu, H. C. Kuo, S. C. Wang, 
“Observations on surface morphologies and dislocations of a-plane GaN grown by metal 
organic chemical vapor deposition”, physica status solidi (c), V4, No. 7, 2510-2514, (2007). 
[6] Te-Chung Wang, Tien-Chang Lu, Tsung-Shine Ko, Hao-Chung Kuo, Hou-Guang Chen, Min 
Yu, Chang-Cheng Chuo, Zheng-Hong Lee, and Sing-Chung Wang, “Material and optical 
properties of Trenched Epitaxial Lateral Overgrowth of a-plane GaN”, physica status solidi 
(c), V4, No. 7, 2519-2513 (2007). 
[7] Hou-Guang Chen, Tsung-Shine Ko, Shih-Chun Ling, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, 
Shing-Chung Wang, Yue-Han Wu, Li Chang, “Dislocation reduction in GaN grown on stripe 
patterned r-plane sapphire substrates”, Applied Physics Letters, 91, 021914-021916, (2007). 
[8] S. -L. Wang, B. -C. Yeh, H. -M. Wu, L. -H. Peng, C. -M. Lai, T. -S. Ko, T. -C. Lu, S. -C. 
Wang, A. -H. Kung, “Optical properties of a-plane GaN strained by photo- chemically grown 
gallium hydroxide”, physica status solidi (c), V5, No. 6, 1780-1782 (2008). 
[9] Te-Chung Wang, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, Run-Ci Gao, Jenq-Dar 
Tsay, and Sing-Chung Wang, “Internal quantum efficiency behavior of a-plane and c-plane 
InGaN / GaN multiple quantum well with different indium compositions”, physica status 
solidi (c), V5, No. 6, 2161-2163 (2008). 
[10] Hou-Guang Chen, Tsung-Shine Ko, Li Chang, Yue-Han Wu, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung 
Kuo, Shing-Chung Wang, “Investigation on microstructure in GaN epitaxial growth on the 
stripe patterned r-plane sapphire substrates”, Journal of Crystal Growth, 310, 1627-1631 
(2008). 
[11] Shih-Chun Ling, Te-Chung Wang, Tsung-Shine Ko, Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo and 
Shing-Chung Wang, “Characteristics of ultraviolet nonpolar InGaN/GaN light-emitting 
diodes using trench epitaxial lateral overgrowth technology”, Journal of Crystal Growth, , 
310, 2330-2333 (2008). 
[12] Shih-Chun Ling, Te-Chung Wang, Jun-Rong Chen, Po-Chun Liu, Tsung-Shine 
Ko,Tien-Chang Lu, Hao-Chung Kuo, Shing-Chung Wang, and Jenq-Dar Tsay, “Performance 
本計畫期末報告結果自評 
    本計畫執行的三年間，在非極性氮化鎵薄膜材料之磊晶技術提升以及晶體品質改善方
面有顯著的成果, 並發表多篇論文於SCI 期刊上。其中，第一年已達成高品質非極性a平面
氮化鎵磊晶技術，並了解不同成長參數對表面及薄膜品質的影響；對於改善晶體品質以及
降低晶體缺陷的研究上，我們先後提出氮化矽嵌入層的概念以及導入側向磊晶成長的技術，
亦成功的改善氮化鎵磊晶薄膜品質，缺陷密度也由1×1010有大幅的降低至1×108 cm−2。同時，
我們亦成功地成長不同井深以及不同銦含量之氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵之量子井結構於平整之氮
化鎵薄膜上，並探討不同井深以及不同銦含量對結構上及光性上的影響。此外，計畫亦成
功以上述相關磊晶技術以及材料研究研發出非極性LED。同時亦開發出以氮化銦鎵/氮化鎵 
超晶格堆疊的方式來降低氮化鎵的差排密度提升非極性LED的操作效率，從電激發光量測
的結果，確實可以有效提升發光強度達三倍之多。另外目前我們也成功製備了綠光非極性
LED，在傳統極性發光二極體所無法突破的高效率綠光元件，可說成功邁進了一步。第三
年藉由前兩年的研究成果，更充分的運用側向磊晶技術，在奈米柱圖形化基板成長出高品
質的非極化氮化氮系列藍綠光發光二極體結構，此外，我們也藉由非極化氮化鎵基板成長
出具有高外部量子效率之發光二極體。整體而言，本計畫對於改善與提升功能性氮化鎵發
光元件的成果有達到預期的目標，相關的研究成果及應用已被國際期刊所接受並已發表刊
登，研究成效有目共睹。 目前，我們亦成功地成長不同濃度之氮化鋁鎵紫外光波段薄膜，
並已對於其基本的光學及結構特性加以探討，我們將針對紫外光波段的氮化鋁鎵薄膜及其
量子井結構之內部應力與晶體成長相互影響的情形加以研究釐清，以提升長晶品質以及優
化樣品結構。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
□ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：  年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：成長於非極化氮化鎵之寬能隙材料及光電元件研究 
計畫主持人：王興宗        
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E009 －092 －MY3 
學門領域：光電工程學門 
技術/創作名稱 非極性氮化鎵磊晶成長技術 
發明人/創作人 柯宗憲、凌碩均、黃煇閔、盧廷昌、郭浩中、王興宗 
技術說明 
中文：利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降
低非極性氮化鎵內部差排及缺陷密度。由穿透式電子顯微鏡的分析
可以發現差排密度有效地由原本高達 3×1010 cm-2降為~3.5×108 cm-2
左右。 
英文：The crystal quality of a-plane GaN films was improved by using 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth on a nanorod GaN template. The 
investigation of x-ray diffraction showed that the strain in a-plane GaN 
grown on r-plane sapphire could be mitigated. The average threading 
dislocation density estimated by transmission electron microscopy was 
reduced from 3×10
10
 to 3.5×10
8
 cm
−2
. These results demonstrated the 
opportunity of achieving a-plane GaN films with low dislocation 
density and high crystal quality via NRELOG.  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可用於非極性發光二極體和雷射等照明設備工業。發光波段可含蓋
紫外光至綠光。 
技術特點 
利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降低非
極性氮化鎵內部差排。 
推廣及運用的價值 
非極性氮化鎵發光元件未來可廣泛應用於光電產業。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
□ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：  年  月  日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：成長於非極化氮化鎵之寬能隙材料及光電元件研究  
計畫主持人：王興宗        
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E009 －092 －MY3 
學門領域：光電工程學門 
技術/創作名稱 功能性高發光效率氮化鎵發光元件 
發明人/創作人 柯宗憲、凌碩均、黃煇閔、盧廷昌、郭浩中、王興宗 
技術說明 
中文：利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降
低非極性發光二極體內部差排並且提高多重量子井的品質之的。由
穿透式電子顯微鏡的分析可以發現差排密度有效地由原本高達 3×
10
10
 cm
-2 降為~3.5×108 cm-2 左右。此外，我們也成功開發出氮化鎵
奈米柱圖形化基板非極性發光二極體。此元件在 20 毫安培操作
下，發光強度可達 0.5 毫瓦；在 100 毫安培操作下，發光強度可達
3.4 毫瓦。 
英文：The crystal quality of a-plane GaN films was improved by using 
epitaxial lateral overgrowth on a nanorod GaN template. The 
investigation of x-ray diffraction showed that the strain in a-plane GaN 
grown on r-plane sapphire could be mitigated. The average threading 
dislocation density estimated by transmission electron microscopy was 
reduced from 3×10
10
 to 3.5×10
8
 cm
−2
. These results demonstrated the 
opportunity of achieving a-plane GaN films with low dislocation 
density and high crystal quality via NRELOG. Hence, we fabricated 
the LED structure on the high quality a-plane GaN template by using 
NRELOG. The output power of NRELOG LEDs is 0.5 mW at 20 mA 
and 3.4 mW at 100 mA, respectively.  
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可用於非極性發光二極體和雷射等照明設備工業。發光波段可含蓋
紫外光至綠光。 
技術特點 
利用氮化鎵奈米柱圖形化基板藉由側向磊晶成長的技術來降低非
極性發光二極體內部差排並且提高多重量子井的品質之目的。成功
製備了非極性發光二極體。 
推廣及運用的價值 
非極性氮化鎵發光元件未來可廣泛應用於光電產業。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
