Author's personal copy
these micelles. The dissipative particle dynamics (DPD) [36–38] is
a mesoscopic simulation technique which can treat a wider range
of length and time scales compared to atomistic simulations. It has
been successfully used to study the physical properties of polymer
as well as surfactant solutions. For example, in a recent work of
DPD simulation, [39] the method has been applied to investigate
the inﬂuence of the compatibility between soluble and insoluble
blocks and the interaction between insoluble block and solvent
on the micellar aggregation number. The formation and the rup-
ture mechanism of vesicles (polymersomes) formed by the block
copolymer were also studied by using DPD [40].
It is worth mentioning that direct comparisons between exper-
imental and simulation results are possible. For example, in this
work the averaged aggregation numbers of different block copoly-
mers will be presented to provide evidence regarding the inﬂuence
of the macromolecular architecture on the micellization behavior
of those block copolymers. In experiments, the aggregation num-
ber is deﬁned as the ratio of the molecular weight of the sample
in the selective solvent over that measured in the common good
solvent. The molecular weight (Mw) of the sample in different sol-
vents can be readily determined through static light scattering
measurements since the light intensity and the solution concentra-
tion has the following dependence,
Kc
DRh
¼ 1
Mw
þ 2A2c þ :::
where K is the material constant including the refractive index
increment, dn/dc. The DRh represents the excess Rayleigh ratio of
the solution over that of the solvent. The second virial coefﬁcient
(A2) of the system can be decided as well. In this work, we will also
present the values of the radius of gyrations of the micelles. The
experimenters usually conduct the dynamic light scattering mea-
surements to obtain the apparent translational diffusion coefﬁcient
at zero density (D0,app) by using,
Dapp ¼ Do;appð1þ kDcÞ
Then, by aid of the Stokes–Einstein equation, the apparent hydrody-
namic radii at inﬁnite dilution (Rh) is calculated:
Rh ¼ kT=6pgsDo;app
where k is the Boltzmann constant, T the absolute temperature, and
gs, the viscosity of the solvent. It is often similar in magnitude to
the radius of gyration. The results of small Rh values often indicate
more or less spherical structures for the micelles.
In this work we perform DPD to explore the micellization of two
types of block copolymers in selective solvents. Type I copolymers
are asymmetric linear diblocks ByAx and Type II copolymers are
miktoarm stars (By)n(Ax)m. The impact of macromolecular architec-
ture on micellization properties such as the aggregation number
and the morphology of the micelles are examined. The asphericity
of the overall micelle is also calculated to illustrate the character-
istics of micellar morphology. Some atypical micellization behav-
iors are presented. For example, the mean aggregation number
increases with increasing polymer concentration and this result
is different from the representative micellization of short-chain
surfactants.
2. Simulation method
The DPD method, introduced by Hoogerbrugge and Koelman in
1992, [36] is a particle-based, mesoscale simulation technique.
This method combines some of the detailed description of the
MD but allows the simulation of hydrodynamic behavior in much
larger, complex systems, up to the microsecond range. In a DPD
simulation, a particle having mass mi represents a block or cluster
of atoms or molecules moving together in a coherent fashion.
These DPD particles are subject to soft potentials and governed
by predeﬁned collision rules. Like MD, the DPD particles obey New-
ton’s equation of motion,
dri
dt
¼ v i; mi dv idt ¼ fi; ð1Þ
where fi denotes the total forces acting on particle i. The interparti-
cle force Fij exerted on particle i by particle j is made of a conserva-
tive term ðFCijÞ, a dissipative term ðFDij Þ, and a random term ðFRijÞ.
Therefore, the total force acting on particle i is
fi ¼
X
i–j
ðFCij þ FDij þ FRijÞ: ð2Þ
The sum acts over all particles j – i within a cutoff radius rc beyond
which the forces are neglected. Typically, the conservative force is
represented by a soft-repulsive interaction,
FCðrijÞ ¼ aij max 1 rijrc ;0
 
eij; ð3Þ
where rij is the distance between particles i and j and eij the unit
vector in the direction of the separation. The interaction parameter
aij represents the maximum repulsion between particles i and j. In
the system, there are three different species of DPD particles,
including solvent (S) and solvophilic particle (A) and solvophobic
particle (B). The repulsive interactions between the same species
are set as aSS = aAA = aBB = 25. We have chosen aAS = 26, aBS = 35
and aAB = 45. Note that, if species i and j are fairly compatible,
aij  25. As incompatibility between i and j increases, aij increases.
A polymer is modeled by connecting particles with springs
[8,16]. Thus, additional spring forces FS act between adjacent par-
ticles in the chain. The present work adopts a harmonic spring,
FSij ¼ Cðrij  r0Þeij; ð4Þ
with C = 100 and r0 = 0.7. Note that Eq. (4) is used to impose con-
nectivitybetweenbondedbeads of apolymer and the choiceofC and
r0will not affect thequalitativebehavior of the systemstudied in our
work. The rij in Eq. (4) can be either greater than or smaller than r0.
Therefore, the spring force can be either negative (attractive) or po-
sitive (repulsive) in sign. In this way, we can maintain the distance
between the bonded beads to be around r0. Therefore, for systems
consist of both simple and polymeric molecules, the total force act-
ing on particle i should be a combination of Eqs. (2) and (4).
The forces FD and FR are responsible for the conservation of the
total momentum in the system. The dissipative force denotes fric-
tion between the particles and explains energy loss. On the other
hand, the random force incorporates the effects of Brownian mo-
tion into the larger length scale and heat up the system. They are
coupled through the ﬂuctuation–dissipation theorem and hence
build a thermostat [38]. The dissipative and the random force have
the forms, respectively,
FDij ¼ cxDðrijÞðeij  v ijÞeij; ð5Þ
and
FRij ¼ rxRðrijÞhijeij; ð6Þ
where vij = vivj and wD (also wR) is a r-dependent weight function
chosen as
xDðrÞ ¼ xRðrÞ 2 ¼ ð1 rÞ2; r < 1
0; r P 1
(
: ð7Þ
hij is a randomly ﬂuctuating variable with Gaussian statistics. A rela-
tion is found between the amplitudes (c and r) and thermal energy
kBT,
r2 ¼ 2ckBT: ð8Þ
540 C.-M. Lin et al. / Reactive & Functional Polymers 69 (2009) 539–545
Author's personal copy
3.1. Type I architecture
Previous studies have focused on the micellization of linear di-
block copolymers ByAx. It was generally believed that the aggrega-
tion number is mainly inﬂuenced by the length of solvophobic
block. Recently, the effect of solvophilic block on <p> has been
clearly shown by dissipative particle dynamic simulations for
copolymers with short solvophobic block length, B5Ax with y/
x 6 1 [39]. For a given solvophobic block length, the aggregation
number declines with increasing the solvophilic block length.
Fig. 1 conﬁrms such aggregation behavior for copolymers with long
solvophobic length, B12Ax. That is, <p> decays with increasing the
solvophilic block length (x = 448). In other words, <p> decreases
as the solvophobic/solvophilic ratio declines (y/x = 31/4).
Although the micellar size depends on the ratio y/x, the effect of
the total length (x + y) at a ﬁxed y/x on the mean aggregation num-
ber is still unknown.
The concept of molecular packing parameter has been widely
employed in the literature to explain micelle formation in dilute
solutions of diblock copolymer because it allows a simple and intu-
itive insight into the self-assembly phenomenon. The molecular
packing parameter is deﬁned as vB/(lBae), where vB is the volume
of the solvophobic tail, lB is the length of the tail, and ae is the equi-
librium area per polymer at the aggregate surface. A particular va-
lue of the molecular packing parameter can be used to obtain
speciﬁc shape and size of the equilibrium aggregate via simple geo-
metrical relations. For spherical micelles, one has the constraint
0 6 vB/(lBae) 6 1/3 and the aggregation number is proportional to
vB2/ae3 [44].
Fig. 2a shows that the variation of the mean aggregation num-
ber with the total length for various ﬁxed y/x ratio. It is interesting
to ﬁnd that <p> is essentially independent of (x + y) when y/x 6 1.
On the other hand, <p> varies signiﬁcantly with (x + y) for y/x > 1.
Moreover, there exists a minimum of the mean aggregation num-
ber. As the total length is increased, <p> declines ﬁrst and then
grows again. Similar trends are observed in the radius of gyration
associated with the micelles, as shown in Fig. 2b. Even though
the mean aggregation number does not change for y/x 6 1, the geo-
metric size of the micelle does increase owing to the increment of
copolymer size. The same effect results in a general rise of micellar
volume with increasing (x + y) for y/x > 1 albeit the aggregation
number does not increase monotonically.
Those consequences indicate that even under a ﬁxed y/x ratio,
the contributions associated with the solvophobic and solvophilic
lengths to the micellar size are quite different. From the point of
view of molecular packing parameter, the solvophobic length y
0 10 20 30 40 50
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
<
p>
x
12 x
Fig. 1. The mean aggregation number of the aggregates versus solvophilic arm
length of the type I block copolymers.
20 40 60 80 100
0
50
100
150
200
y/x <=1                 y/x>1
y:x=1:1       
y:x=1:2          y:x=2:1
y:x=1:3  
y:x=1:4        
<
p>
y+x
y:x=3:1
y x
Fig. 2a. The mean aggregation number of the aggregates versus the total length of
the type I block copolymers at various y/x ratio.
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
R g
y+x
y/x<=1               y/x>1
y:x=1:1    y:x=3:1 
y:x=1:2    y:x=2:1
y:x=1:3
y:x=1:4
y x
Fig. 2b. The mean radius of gyration of the aggregates versus the total length of the
type I block copolymers at various y/x ratio.
542 C.-M. Lin et al. / Reactive & Functional Polymers 69 (2009) 539–545
Author's personal copy
formed by type II(a) polymer with different solvophilic arm num-
ber. Each micelle exhibits typical spherical conformation with in-
ner core and outer corona. However, the outer coronas display
noteworthy differences. The micellization is essentially driven by
the reduction of the internal energy associated with the interac-
tions between insoluble block and solvent. Therefore, the ability
of the solvophilic block to prevent contacts between the insoluble
blocks and solvents is one of the intuitive concepts for determining
the size of the aggregates. A loose and extended corona is formed
for block copolymers withm = 1, as depicted in Fig. 5a and a highly
inhomogeneous corona is found form = 24, as depicted in Fig. 5c. It
seems that the solvophilic corona formed by copolymers with
m = 1 and 24 cannot effectively shield the insoluble core of the
aggregates. As a consequence, more block copolymers must come
together to share the task of protecting the insoluble blocks. For
m = 3, solvophilic arms form a relatively dense corona around the
core and act as a successful protection layer, as depicted in
Fig. 5b, and thus the aggregation number is comparatively low.
The micellar free energy can be approximated by a sum of three
contributions (due to the core, the corona, and the interface be-
tween them):
Fmicelle ¼ Fcore þ Fcorona þ F interface:
Micellization is mainly driven by the system’s tendency to lower its
surface energy at the core/solvent interface. Typically, Finterface is ta-
ken as the product of interfacial area and interfacial tension. When
solvophilic arm number is small, increasing m leads to the incre-
ment of chain stretching in the corona. Consequently, Finterface is pri-
marily balanced by conﬁnement of soluble-block A in the corona
Fcorona, similar to a star-like micelle. Reduction of the aggregation
Type II(a) Single Micelle Overall System 
n = 1 
m =1 
Fig. 5a. Snapshots of the aggregates formed by type II(a) block copolymers with n = 1 and m = 1.
Type II(a) Single Micelle Overall System 
n = 1 
m =3 
Fig. 5b. Snapshots of the aggregates formed by type II(a) block copolymers with n = 1 and m = 3.
Type II(a) Single Micelle  Overall System 
n = 1 
m =24 
Fig. 5c. Snapshots of the aggregates formed by type II(a) block copolymers with n = 1 and m = 24.
544 C.-M. Lin et al. / Reactive & Functional Polymers 69 (2009) 539–545
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             年    月    日 
報告人姓名  諶 玉 真 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
國立臺灣大學化學工程學系 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
July 12-17, 2009 
Graz, Austria 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)2009 年歐洲高分子會議 
 (英文)2009 European Polymer Congress 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)段塊星狀高分子溶液之非典型微胞行為 
 (英文)Atypical Micellization of Star-Block Copolymer Solutions 
附件三
 
