without the awareness to reduce excessive dentin/crown removal, and they extract the patient’s tooth if
they failed in the treatment. Specialized endodontic training for the dentists and technology
enhancement to assist them are much needed in Taiwan.
1.2. The Need of New Advanced Endodontic Technology
As stated above, endodontic, root canal, treatment prevents millions of diseased teeth from being
extracted every year. Current techniques in clinical endodontic therapy rely on the skill (e.g. tactile
sense and accumulated experience) and judgement of the clinician. At each step, the clinician’s 
expertise directly affects the success of the treatment. The treatment process is expensive, time
-consuming and prone to human error. Destructive removal of crown is needed before the clinician can
diagnose the root canal, and excessive tooth structure removal weakens the tooth’s strength. 
Furthermore, the outcome relies on the clinician’s master skils that can be gained only through years 
of training and practice. No wonder the treatment successful rate is only 60-65% for general dentists
and 90% by specialists.
Root canal shaping, a mechanical process, is accomplished with hand files, reamers and also with
drills of various designs and materials that attach to rotary engines of different speeds. In principle,
except in scale, it does not differ from the drilling process in the metal cutting industry. The machining
industry has moved from manual operation to CNC (computer numerical control) as the major metal
cutting system. In CNC systems, the quality and accuracy of the produced part is controlled by a
computer program linked to an automatic precision machine. The master skill of the worker,
absolutely critical in the past, is no longer needed. In endodontics, however, the success of the present
root canal shaping technique still depends on the skill and the thoroughness of the clinician. Because
endodontic therapy relies almost entirely on “feel”, the tactile sense of the clinician, the quality and 
accuracy of clinical care could be greatly enhanced by applying technological advancements to the
therapy.
1.3. Our New Approach for an Advanced Endodontic Technology
To address current root canal therapy problems, the principal investigator, Dr. Hong, proposed an
advanced endodontic technology, as illustrated in Figure 3. The new technology is compared with
current treatment methods in Table 1. The innovations of advanced endodontic technology includes
non-destructive pre-treatment inspection, automatic prescription, intelligent drilling and associated
canal preparation, and improved cleaning and debris removal. The objective is to modernize the
traditional treatment, moving from a "manual art” to science-based automation. Our effort will provide
advanced endodontic technologies for safe, accurate, efficient, reliable, and low-cost root canal
treatment that will directly benefit patients.
This advanced endodontic technology development program will (1) develop a technique to
2-D Radiographs
Computer Aided Prescription for Treatment
Step 4:
Make access
and Pre-flare
NC program for operation procedures
NC CODE
N001 G00 X 50 Y 50 Z00
N002 T02 S1800 M90
N003 G01 Z-200
N004 G01 Z-5 U120 V130
N005 X002 U010 Y050 V-50
N006 Z300 M03 T12
N007 G92 X0 Y0
Tooth condition & Tool motion
•Automatic Drilling
•Automatic Filing
•Automatic Cleaning
•Automatic Filling
•On-Line Monitoring
3-D Computer Model
Intelligent Multi-Purpose Micro Machine Operation
Automatic Probing Knowledge Base
Advanced Endodontic Technology
•Automatic Access
Preparation
Clinician’s Modification
Dentist/Patient Review
Simulation
Interrupt by Clinician
Figure 3 Our Proposed Procedures of Advanced Endodontic Technology
2. RESULTS FROM OUR PRIOR STUDY
Shown in Figure 3, the advanced endodontic technology includes three parts: (1) 3 D computer
modeling of root canals –non-destructive assessment of the internal anatomy of the teeth. (2)
Computer aided process planning for minimum invasive canal preparation- an automatic prescription
system for treatment. (3) Intelligent multi-purpose micro machine operation for automatic probing,
drilling, filing and cleaning with on-line monitoring. In the past years, we have completed the first two
parts of technology development, which were considered very difficult by many. Our objective is
provide advanced endodontic technologies for safe, accurate, efficient, reliable, and low-cost root
canal treatment that will directly benefit patients.
2.1 Result from Our 3-D Modeling Development
Before a clinician's inspection, a destructive access preparation by removing teeth crown and
dentin is usually needed. In this study, a less invasive technique and a computer program are
developed to assess internal tooth geometry by building 3-D tooth models from 2-D radiographs,
within the constraints of human body. This model reveals the dimensions and geometry of the root
canal, and displays the location of canal orifice and canal curvature in 3-D computer graphics. With
this model, the destructive access preparation before a clinician’s inspection can be avoided. Three 
cases have been investigated to verify and test the usability of the 3-D modeling computer program.
To evaluate the accuracy of root canal geometry described by the 3-D model, an experiment has been
designed and conducted to obtain measured root canal results by slicing method. The measured results
and modeled data have been compared.
To facilitate the precision registration of the machine and to calibrate the dimensional accuracy,
Dr. Hong developed a tooth reference fixture that wil be clamped to the patient’s tooth before 
radiographic imaging. This compact fixture was made of a material with minimal density, except for
three imbedded points and/or metal wires that will serve as markers. These markers provide the
reference coordinate frame in the radiographic image for accurate dimensional calibration. This
clamped fixture will later support the multi-purpose micro-machine and provide registration for the
machine positioning.
For construction of the 3-D model, Dr. Hasselgren’s group has investigated two general
approaches depending on how the images are obtained: (1) CT or MRI scan; (2) Building from planar
radiography. Because nowadays dental x-ray units are inexpensive, with prices ranging from
$2,000-$5,000, all modern dental clinics are equipped with this instrument. And in endodontic
treatment the root canal geometry is our primary interest rather than the complex geometry of the
external contour of the tooth. Therefore, elaborate x-ray exposures like in the CT system are not
Figure 4 X-ray picture of pig teeth
Figure 5 A 3D model of the pig tooth
Figure 6 Illustration of the result of automatic procedure planning for root
canal shaping of the pig tooth
Figure 7: Comparison of modeled canal shape and finished canal shape of pig tooth
Engineering Congress and Exposition, November 13-19, 2004, Anaheim, California,
Paper No. IMECE 2004-62519 MED, v15,manufacturing Engineering and Material
Handling-2004, p.369-379 EI
6. Dong, J.,Hong, S. and Hesselgren, G., “Tool Selection and Path Control for Automated
Anterior Teeth Coronal Canal Treatment Preparation”ASME International Mechanical
Engineering Congress and Exposition, November 5-11, 2005, Orlando, Florida Paper
No. IMECE 2005-80473 EI
7. Dong, J., Hong, S and Hasselgren,Ｇ.“X-ray image geometric rectification for 3D root
canal model construction”Six IASTED International Conference on Signal and Image
Processing, 2004, p.642-647 EI
8. Janet Dong, Shane Hong, Gannar Hesselgren,“WIP: A Study on Development of
Endodontic Micro Robot”Proceedings of The Ninth Annual IJME - INTERTECH
Conference, Kean University , NJ., October 19-21, 2006 Paper No. ENT 104-110
3. PROJECT CONTENT AND TECHNICAL APPROACH
Our planned research in this three year program is the development of intelligent micro
robotic machine with real time sensing and control. The following will describe its general
requirements, mechanical design, sensor implementation, and software and machine intelligence
development. As an automation associated with human object, safety is the number one consideration,
the safety features of our approach are also described.
3. 1 General system requirements
In 1982, for his Ph.D. research, the principal investigator, Dr. Hong, designed a Robotic Drilling
Unit -- a versatile and intelligent drilling machine exclusively designed for robotic application. This
computer-controlled compact machine has a built-in sensor system to monitor the position and
dynamic performance, and to measure the drill displacement, spindle speed, cutting thrust force,
torque, and vibration. Using on-line sensing and diagnosis software programs developed through Dr.
Hong’s metal cuting research, this machine can detect any dril failure and machine trouble, and 
forecast the hole quality even before it finishes the drilling cycle. Used to build the F-16 jet fighters at
General Dynamics plants, this machine successfully automated the drilling process which previously
relied on the feel and the sense of line technicians to check the drill wear and breakage and to ensure
the hole quality. This work won him an award in the nationwide Lincoln Foundation’s Engineering 
Design Competition in 1982. His Ph.D. dissertation was one of the best selling dissertations offered by
University Microfilms Inc. in Ann Arbor, Michigan. His work has been commercialized by EOA
Corporation in Dallas and has been used by major aerospace companies.
 The spindle must have the rotational power to drive the tool at speeds and torque used in
endodontic treatment tools.
 The machine should be able to provide a thrust force not less than 500g (4.9 Newtons) for
tool penetration into the crown and dentin.
To design a micro machine with these specifications is technically challenging. However, the
research team members possess the necessary qualifications and experience. Despite the tremendous
difference in machine size from his previous robotic drilling unit, the Principal Investigator is
experienced in developing devices and instruments with nanometer (10-9 m) resolutions. From
1985-1990, Dr. Hong was a member of technical staff at Bell Laboratories-Murray Hill, NJ, where his
research focused on leading edge VLSI (Very Large Scale Integrated Circuits) microelectronics
processing. Initially responsible for developing a electron beam lithography system for silicon wafer
processing [Hong, 1993b; Hong, 1991] and later for leading the development of atomic force
microscopy for inspection of integrated circuitry in nanometer scale [Hong, 1992b], he has relevant
experience for designing and developing ultra-precision micro machines. His experience in
microelectronics processing is advantageous not only in the design of compact precision machines, but
it also qualifies him to design MEMS (Micro Electro-Mechanical Systems) based sensors for probing
the root canal cavity and for dynamic monitoring of the drilling process.
3.2. Concept for Mechanical Design
A conceptual preliminary design of the multi-purpose micro machine for root canal preparation is
illustrated in Figures 8, 9 and 10. As indicated in Figure 9, this machine has five axes of motion: linear
motion in the X, Y, Z directions, and rotational motion in x ,y directions. The tilt angles x ,y
will be controled by additional linear actuators X’ and Y’. There will be another rotational motion
provided for the spindle z .
The machine will have a saddle-shaped base. It will ride on a pair of reference brackets and the teeth
row (Figure 8). Before taking X-rays and mounting this machine, the pair of brackets, in assorted sizes
to fit the patients' teeth, must be pre-clamped firmly on the tooth to be root canal treated. Neighboring
teeth may be used as support. The bracket pair provides three radiopaque reference points for the
machine registration, thus establishing the coordination system for the machine. Once the machine is
seated on the reference bracket, the machine base will have no motion relative to the patient’s teeth, 
regardless of the patient's head or jaw movements. The machine will be designed compact and rigid so
that the patient can bite on it. There is no need for the patient to actively keep his/her mouth wide open,
nor is there a need for the patient to keep his/her head absolutely still. There is no sharp corner to hurt
the patient, and a protecting case (shown in the photo only, not in the drawings) further enhances the
safety.
Figure 8 Conceptual design of the multi-purpose micro robotic machine
small modular unit, which can be inserted into a sliding adaptor on the Z axis.
This machine design will also incorporate sensors for intelligent monitoring of the treatment
process. A manual remote control will be provided for the clinician, but a fully automatic operation
with computer aided treatment procedure planning and control is the ultimate goal for zero-defect
operation. An interface system will be provided for the clinician to interact with the machine control.
3.2.1 Size of the machine:
To take care of conflicting needs of treating the longest root canal and limited jaw opening, we plan to
build two models of different sizes to resolve the problem. For access preparation, both models will
allow an envelop of 4 mm x 5 mm (5 mm x 7 mm maximum) of the rotary tool movement in the
X-Y planes to remove crown enamel and dentin to a depth more than needed (>10 mm). The main
differences between these two models are the machine height and the Z-axis travel.
Model A: For teeth with potentially long roots, such as canines (front teeth), this model has Z
travel of 15 mm, and the total height above the crown is 20 mm.
Model B: With Z travel of 10 mm, and total height above the crown of only 15 mm, it can fit
essentially the whole mouth without a jaw opening constraint. This model is for treating most of
the teeth, especially the molars (rear teeth).
To solicit the feedback from dentist, we have built the machine model with 1:1 scale to its real
size. Although not a real operating machine, the model provides the size for the dentists to fit into the
patient’s mouth and to imitate the operation. It proved to be useful, as a result, Model A was considered
enough for front teeth but two big for the rear teeth to be between the upper and lower jaws. That is
why Model B was considered later. Figure 11 shows a photo of the two models. Their specifications
are shown in Table 2.
3.2.2 Mounting and Coordinate Reference System:
The machine will clamp firmly onto the pre-installed reference bracket fixture that is also used in
the radiographic imaging procedure as described in the 3-D modeling section. There are registration
marks for matching the bracket and the machine that establish the coordinate system used both for 3-D
modeling and for the drilling operation with repeatable high accuracy. The use of this reference fixture
eliminates the problem of the irregularity of the tooth shape and the diversity of the tooth size and
shape. It also solves the problem of mounting the machine on the teeth.
Table 2 Specification for the Endodontic Micro Robot
Model A
“the Maximum”
Model B
“the Junior”
Height above crown
Width
Length
Saddle Height below crown
X-Axis Design:
X travel
X’ Travel
Cylinder bore
Centerline distance
Θx Tilting angle range
X axis assembly dimension
Positioning accuracy
Y-Axis Design:
Y Travel
Y’ Travel
Cylinder bore
Centerline distance
Θy Tilting angle range
Y axis assembly dimension
Positioning accuracy
Z Axis Design:
Z Axis Travel
Cylinder bore
Z assembly Height
Z assembly dimension
Positioning accuracy
20 mm
20 mm
32 mm
5 mm
7 mm
7 mm
5 mm
7.85 mm
± 15o
7 mm x 11 mm x 13.5 mm
±0.05mm
5 mm
5 mm
5 mm
7.85 mm
± 15o
8 mm x 10 mm x 18 mm
±0.05mm
15mm
5 mm
20 mm
6.67mm x 7.5mm x 20 mm
±0.05mm
15 mm
16 mm
25 mm
4 mm
7 mm
7 mm
5 mm
6 mm
± 15o
7mm x 10 mm x 13mm
±0.05mm
5 mm
5 mm
6 mm
6 mm
± 15o
7 mm x 10 mm x 14mm
±0.05mm
10 mm
5 mm
15 mm
7mm x 7mm x 15mm
±0.05mm
diameter matches the cylinder bore with sliding fit accuracy, a rubber ring of appropriate composition
will be cast (or bonded) to the piston each side as an integral part and is ground to the tolerance, a
technology used for making friction rollers in consumer electronics, such as VCRs, cassette drives, or
office equipment such as printers or copiers. For the seal between the faceplate bushing and the piston
rod, a rubber ring bonded to the faceplate bushing or a similar design used in the watch industry for
waterproof products can be applied without much effort. For the seal between the faceplate and the
cylinder body, the concept of a metal seal for ultrahigh vacuum systems can be utilized to enhance the
sealing, in which one part with a machined ridge ring (knife edge) can cut into the matching surface to
form an airtight fit. Strictly speaking, there is no real need for that seal, because these two parts will be
assembled leak-proof by micro welding, which will allow the whole machine to be assembled without
using screws, resulting in a compact machine design.
3.2.5 Cartridge System for Quick Tool Changing for Multi-purpose Operation:
Because the machine must be multi-purpose, it will be designed to adopt different cleaning and
shaping tools. The use of a cartridge replacement concept will allow the clinician to quickly change
tools while keeping the basic machine design simple. The drill, round bur, rigid file, flexible
Nickel-Titanium file, endodontic explorer, probing tool, vacuum suction tube, or filler injection head
will be pre-indexed in a tool holder cartridge. When this cartridge is mounted on the Z-axis slide, the
tool will be accurately positioned. Powered by the hydraulic cylinders of the five axes and one
additional external power source, the micro-machine will provide the rotational, feed and/or
reciprocation motion necessary to perform the functions required by these multiple tools. If a piezo
transducer is mounted on the cartridge, the cleaning and shaping tool also can be provided with
ultrasonic vibration to enhance some of the operations.
3.2.6 Auxiliary System Bay: Shown in Figure 8, on the Z-Axis assembly, there is a space reserved for
attaching auxiliary equipment such as:
- flushing solution jet nozzle for cleaning
- vacuum suction cup for chip removal and waste fluid, and/or
- optical fibers for lighting, imaging and observation. This optical fiber system is
essential for manual remote control of the machine.
3.2.7 Control Modes and Use:
There are two operation modes for this micro robotic machine. A manual remote control mode
serves as a steady platform for performing probing. And an automatic mode with intelligent sensing
and control is used for fully automatic operation.
4. PROJECT STATUS and PLANNED FUTURE WORK
gaps between teeth was adopted. High friction and soft elastomeric pads compressed by
wedge inserts can hold the teeth tightly. The mounting fixture is made of radio-translucent
rigid plastic material. The three stainless steel balls mounted on the fixture can be used for
radiographic analysis and for the micro robot machine registration. Above the machine
mounting base, we are able to design the hydraulic cylinders for the four axes so cmpact that
it fit the specification nicely.
As the tasks for the first year progresses well, we are confident to complete the project
according to the set schedule. Therefore, it is time to arrange the work for Year 2 and Year 3,
which is the main subject for this proposal.
Figure 12 The Z-axis design with quick–change pneumatic power tool spindle
Dong , Janet Jiaxiang, (2003)“Rule Based Planning for Automated Endodontic Treatment- From Dental
Radiography, 3-D Computer Modeling, to Tool Selection and Path Control”, Ph.D. Thesis, Columbia University,
May. 2003. (Thesis advisor: Shane Y. Hong)
Dong, J.,Hong, S. and Hesselgren, G., (2004)“Tool Selection and Path Control for Automated Posterior Teeth 
Coronal Canal Treatment Preparation”ASME International Mechanical Engineering Congress and Exposition,
November 13-19, 2004, Anaheim, California, Paper No. IMECE 2004-62519 MED, v15,manufacturing
Engineering and Material Handling-2004, p.369-379 EI
Dong, J., Hong, S and Hasselgren,Ｇ. (2004)“X-ray image geometric rectification for 3D root canal model
construction”Six IASTED International Conference on Signal and Image Processing, 2004, p.642-647 EI
Dong, J.,Hong, S. and Hesselgren, G.,(2005) “Tool Selection and Path Control for Automated Anterior Teeth
Coronal Canal Treatment Preparation”ASME International Mechanical Engineering Congress and Exposition,
November 5-11, 2005, Orlando, Florida Paper No. IMECE 2005-80473 EI
J. Dong, S. Hong, and G. Hesselgren,(2005)“Theories and Algorithms for 3-D Root Canal Model Construction”,
Computer-Aided Design, v37, n11, Sep 15, 2005, Bio-CAD, p.1177-1189 EI , SCI
Fong CD, Ahmed M, and Ganne D (2000) Endodontic model system II: Anatomical Model. Birnberg Research
Day. Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
Glickman JL and Dumsha TC (1997): Problems in canal cleansing and shaping.In Gutmann JL, Dumsha TC,
Lovdahl PE, Hovland EJ, editors: Problem Solving in Endodontics, ed 3, St Louis, Missouri, Mosby, pp 91-121.
Gutmann JL and Lovdahl PE (1997): Problems encountered in tooth isolation and access to the pulp chamber
space. In Gutmann JL, Dumsha TC, Lovdahl PE, Hovland EJ, editors: Problem Solving in Endodontics, ed 3, St
Louis,Missouri, Mosby, pp47-67.
Gutmann JL and Witherspoon DE (1997): Obturation of the cleaned and shaped root canal system. In Cohen S,
Burns RC, editors: Pathways of the Pulp, ed 7, St Louis, Missouri, Mosby, pp 258-361.
Hong SY (then Horng, Shi-yuan) (1982): Development of An End Effector for Robotic Drilling with On-line
Sensing and Diagnosis. Ph.D. Thesis, University of Wisconsin-Madison.
Hong SY (1985a): Advanced Sensor System for Robotic Driling, SME technical paper, Sensor’85 MS85-998.
Hong SY (1985b): Robotic Drilling System with on-line Quality Control. Proceedings of 8th International
Production Research Conference, Stuttgart, W. Germany, August 21-24.
Hong SY (1988): 3-D Measurement by a Single Optical Scanner for Automatic Inspection of Multiple Object
Arrays. Proceedings of 34th International Instrumentation Symposium, Albuquerque, New Mexico, May 2-5.
Hong SY and Clemens J (1991): Apparatus comprising electrostatic wafer cassette, US patent no. 4,9995,07
March 12, 1991 and US patent no. 5073716, December, 1991.
Hong SY and Wu SM (1992): New Quick Tool Changing System for Robotic Drilling. Flexible Automation,
Proceedings of Japan-USA Symposium on Flexible Automation, San Francisco, CA, July 13-15, 1992, Published
by ASME, p. 939-946.
Hong SY (1992a): Some Developments of Machine Intelligence for Fully Automatic Drilling Process.
Proceedings of the IMACS/SICE International Symposium on Robotics, Mechatronics and Manufacturing
Systems, Kobe, Japan, September 16-20.
Proceedings of The 2006 IJME - INTERTECH Conference
Session ENT 104-110
WIP: A Study on Development of Endodontic Micro Robot*
Janet Dong, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering Technology
College of Applied Science, University of Cincinnati
Email: janet.dong@uc.edu
Shane Hong, Ph.D.
Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering
College of Engineering, National Chiao Tung University
Email: hong@mail.nctu.edu.tw
Gannar Hesselgren, Ph.D. DDS
Professor, Division of Endodontics
School of Dental and Oral Surgery, Columbia University
Email: bgh1@columbia.edu
Abstract
Endodontic therapy, also called root canal treatment, is a procedure performed to remove
damaged tissue from the inner canal of a tooth and seal the canal to prevent the tooth from being
a source of infection. A typical procedure includes access preparation, root canal preparation and
root canal filling. The treatment process is time-consuming and prone to human error. The
outcome relies on the clinician’s master skils that can be gained only through years of training 
and practice. The treatment successful rate is 60 - 65% by general dentists and 90% by
specialists. In order to improve the quality and reliability of endodontic therapy, an endodontic
micro robot is proposed to be built. This computer controlled micro machine will be mounted on
the teeth within patient’s mouth. With on-line monitoring and positioning control, the multi-
purpose micro robot performs automatic treatment procedures, including probing, drilling, filing,
cleaning and filling.
This paper will discuss the preliminary results on mechanical design and manufacture of
micro robot, choosing of embedded sensors and actuators, and design of the electrical control
system with NC controller. The paper will also discuss the innovations involved from the
traditional way endodonticsts treat root canal to science and technology based automation.
* This project is sponsored by University Research Council at University of Cincinnati.
1. Introduction
Endodontic (root canal) treatment is common. Approximately 24 million root canal
therapies are performed annually in the United States [1]. Endodontic treatment is performed to
prevent the tooth from being a source of infection. Typically, endodontic treatment involves root
Proceedings of The 2006 IJME - INTERTECH Conference
to the failure to remove pulp tissue, dentinal debris, and microorganisms from the root canal
system. In addition, the root canal may be improperly shaped, thus preventing adequate filling.
The problems identified cannot be resolved solely by training of clinicians. Endodontics is
a clinical specialty, but the great need for endodontic therapy makes it impossible for specialists
to handle all cases. There is a need for advanced endodontic technology innovation by applying
advanced engineering and computer aided technology to reduce the potential for human error
and improve the quality of care during endodontic therapy.
The need for advanced endodontic technology innovation has prompted the research plan
of “Advacned Endodontic Technology Development”. The Advanced Endodontic Technology 
Development project consists of four sub-subjects:
(1) development of a technique to thoroughly assess the teeth’s condition using 2-dimensional x-
ray images to build a computer 3-D tooth model, displayed with state-of-the-art computer
graphics;
(2) develop an automatic prescription system from the 3-D root canal model, using computer-
aided treatment procedure planning;
(3) design and build a smart multi-purpose precision micro machine to perform automated root
canal treatment;
(4) develop a new ultrasonic cleaning tool with pressure assisted jetting/vacuum waste removal.
The development of an endodontic micro machine is the center piece of Advanced
Endodontic Technology Development project, as the final implementation of advanced
endodontic technology will come down to the micro machine with a precision beyond what the
human hand can achieve. This computer-controlled machine will be mounted on the teeth within
the patient’s mouth. With on-line monitoring and intelligent control, the micro machine or robot
will perform the automated probing, drilling, cleaning, and filling of root canal. All other sub-
project results will be incorporated into this robotic operation.
This paper will focus on the preliminary study on mechanical design of endodontic robot,
design and choosing of embedded sensors, and design of the electrical control system with NC
controller.
2. Essences in Endodontic Process Automation
Root canal shaping is a mechanical process that is currently done with hand files and
reamers, along with drills of various designs and tools that attach to rotary engines of different
speeds. In principle, though not in scale, it does not differ from the drilling/reaming process in
the machining industry. The machining industry has moved from manual operation to Numerical
Control (NC) and Computer Numerical Control (CNC). The quality and accuracy of a produced
part is controlled by a computer program on an automatic precision machine. The master skill, so
critical in the past, is no longer needed. Currently in endodontics, the success of the root canal
shaping technique principally depends on the skill and thoroughness of the clinician. This is
because endodontic therapy relies almost entirely on “feel” - the tactile sense of clinicians [7].
Proceedings of The 2006 IJME - INTERTECH Conference
4. Endodontic Micro Robot Mechanical Design
There are different potential machine configurations. Here is introduced the design of a
multi-purpose micro machine for root canal preparation, which is illustrated in Figures 2 and 3.
As indicated in the figure, this machine has five axes of motion: linear motion in the X, Y, Z
directions, and rotational motion in x ,y directions. The tilt angles x ,y are controlled by
additional linear actuatorsX’andY’. There is another rotational motion provided for the spindle
z .
The machine has a saddle-shaped base. It will ride on a pair of reference brackets and the
teeth row. Before taking X-rays and mounting this machine, the pair of brackets, in assorted sizes
to fit the patients' teeth, must be pre-clamped firmly on the tooth to be treated. Neighboring teeth
may be used as support.
The bracket pair provides three radiopaque reference points for machine registration, thus
establishing a coordination system for the machine. Once the machine is seated on the reference
bracket, the machine base wil have no motion relative to the patient’s teeth, regardless of the 
patient's head or jaw movements. The machine is designed compact and rigid so that the patient
can bite on it. There is no need for the patient to actively keep his/her mouth wide open, nor is
there a need for the patient to keep his/her head absolutely still. There is no sharp corner to hurt
the patient, and a protecting case (shown in the photo only, not in the drawings) further enhances
the safety.
Figure 2. Multi-purpose micro-machine for automatic endodontic treatment
Designed for multi-purpose use, this machine can hold various endodontic tools and
auxiliary devices. With a quick tool change concept, utilizing a cartridge design, different tools
can be pre-mounted on a small modular unit, which can be inserted into a sliding adaptor on the
Z axis.
Proceedings of The 2006 IJME - INTERTECH Conference
7. Conclusion
The development of an endodontic micro robot is the center piece of Advanced Endodontic
Technology Development. Compared to conventional access methods for root canal treatment,
this research presents a less invasive method for automated access and canal preparation during
endodontic therapy. The automated treatment using micro endodontic robot prevents problems
identified with conventional techniques (e.g., inadequate opening, overzealous tooth removal),
and provide safe, accurate, and reliable root canal treatment for patients. With on-line monitoring
and intelligent control, this machine will perform the automatic probing, drilling, cleaning, and
filling of root canal. The success of the fabrication of the robot and integration into the Advanced
Endodontic Technology Development plan will change the traditional way of root canal
treatment to science and technology based automation, and lead the micro electronic mechanical
technology to a new application area in endodontics.
The paper described preliminary development of endodontic micro robot for root canal
treatment, including specification and requirements, mechanical design, and controller systems.
Further study is still needed, especially in micro sensor and actuator design and fabrication. It is
expected that the new model with embedded sensors and actuators will be fabricated in the near
future.
Reference:
[1] American Dental Association, Survey of Dental Practice, S699 ed, Chicago, ADA 1999
[2] Gutmann JL and Lovdahl PE: Problems Encountered in Tooth Isolation and Access to the
Pulp Chamber Space. In Gutmann JL, Dumsha TC, Lovdahl PE, Hovland EJ, editors: Problem
Solving in Endodontics-Prevention, Identification, and Management, ed 3, St Louis, Missouri,
The C.V. Mosby, 1997, pp47-67
[3] Walton, Richard E.: Torabinejad Mahmoud: Principles and Practice of Endodontics, Third
edition, W.B.Saunders Company, 2002, pp192-197
[4] Gutmann JL, Dumsha T: Cleaning and Shaping the Root Canal System. In Cohen S,
Burns RC, editors: Pathways of the Pulp, ed 7, St Louis, Missouri, The C.V. Mosby Company,
1997, pp160-173
[5] Burns RC and Herbranson EJ: Tooth Morphology and Cavity Preparation. In Cohen S,
Burns RC, editors: Pathways of the Pulp, ed 7, St Louis, Missouri, The C. V. Mosby, 1997, pp
150-202
[6] West JD and Roane JB: Cleaning and Shaping the Root Canal System. In Cohen S, Burns
RC, editors: Pathways of the Pulp, ed 7, St Louis, Missouri, The C.V. Mosby, 1997, pp 203-257
[7] Sen BH, Piskin B and Demirci T: Observation of Bactreia and Fungi in Infected Root
Canals and Dentinal Tubules by SEM, Endodontics and Dental Tranmatology, 1995, 11: pp6-9
[8] Dong J: Rule-based Planning for Automated Endodontic Treatment - From Dental
Radiography, 3-D Computer Modeling, to Tool Selection and Path Control, Dissertation,
Columbia University, 2003, pp149-153, pp18-47, pp216-230
