 
2 
 
奈米粒子在三維無介電泳晶片之電動特性研究 
(Electrokinetic Characterization of Nano-particle in a three-dimension 
Electrdoeless Dielectrophoesis (EDEP) Chip) 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-214-012 
執行期間：100年08月01日至 101年07月31日 
主 持 人：林志龍        執行機構及單位名稱:義守大學機械與自動化工程學系 
摘要 
本計畫發展出利用三維結構無電極式介電泳微流體晶
片，分離微粒子與生物樣品濃縮的可行性方法。在本
研究中數值模擬和實驗觀測藉由施予固定之電場和改
變操作頻率，用來調查電動流，亦即電滲流、介電泳、
與電熱現象。結果顯示透過調整操作頻率，不僅可以
產生正向/逆向電滲流，同時也可以分類不同粒徑( 0.5, 
1.0 and 2.0 μm)分離最佳化的頻率。此外，本研究提
出的操作模式可以用於補集微粒子，同時輸送微粒子
通過微流體晶片，而不需要外加的輸送設備。最後，
成功地展示了 EDEP 晶片應用提高了大腸桿菌與蛋
白質生物樣品濃縮的效應。當然，此晶片可以作為多
功能如輸送、分離和偵測，進而實現實驗室晶片的可
行性。 
關鍵字: 分離；濃縮；無電極式介電泳；電滲透；介
電泳 
ABSTRACT 
This study demonstrated the feasibility of the micropartilce 
separation and biosample concentration and separation 
approach by utilizing the electrokinesis within an electrodeless 
dielectrophosesis chip. Numerical simulations and 
experimental observations were facilitated to investigate the 
phenomena of electrokinetics, i.e., electroosmosis, 
dielectrophoresis, and electrothermosis. Besides, the proposed 
operating mode can be used to simultaneously convey 
microparticles through the microfluidic device by using 
electroosmotic flow (EOF), eliminating the need for an 
additional micropump. These results not only revealed the fluid 
cloud be generated a forward/backward electroosmotic flow, 
but also categorized the optimum separating parameters for the 
different micro-particle sizes ( 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 μm) by tuning 
of the driving frequency at a given electric potential (90 
Vpp/cm). Finally, the EDEP chip was successfully 
demonstrated to enhance the concentrated performance of the 
streptavidins bio-sample. Certainly, the device can be 
envisioned as a single automated device that supports the 
multi-functions such as transportation, separation, and 
detection, facilitating the realization of a Lab-on-a-Chip. 
Keyword: separation, concentration, electrodeless 
dielectrophoresis, electroosmosis, dielectrophoresis 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In the past decades, cell or microparticle separation has 
gained significant attentions in sample preparations for 
biological and chemical applications especially in microfluidic 
systems. Several approaches were employed the application for 
particle manipulation, included dielectrical [1], magnetic [2], 
and optical [3] manipulations. Among these methods, they 
exhibited some advantages and disadvantages. For example, 
electrode-embedded arrays dielectrophoresis (DEP) [4, , 5] 
provides many advantages such as flexibility, controllability 
and ease of application; and it has been proven to be an 
efficient non-invasive method for separating various cell types 
without any need for labeling. However, inherent 
characteristics of electrode-embedded arrays DEP not only lead 
to its fast decays of field gradient, but also hardly to allow the 
ability to EO transport for conveying particles unless more 
complicated microdevice design was involved [6]. These 
features would significantly reduce the trapping efficiency and 
throughput. Magnetic manipulation can be used to separate the 
micropartilces, however, slight size variation is difficult to 
separate resulting in signiﬁcant differences in magnetic force. 
Meanwhile, the higher magnetic force could generate the 
higher temperature to damage the biosample.  Alternatively, 
optical manipulation is known as the non-contact and 
contamination-free manipulation, but the complicated optical 
setup, complex operation, and expensive instrumentation to 
limit their further applications in microfluidics.  
Currently, a concept of DEP method is insulator-based 
(electrodeless) DEP (iDEP or EDEP), in which a high field 
gradient is generated at an insulating constriction in a 
conducting solution, avoiding some of the electrode-embedded 
arrays DEP problems [7, 8 ]. EDEP can be performed using 
different geometries and configurations of insulating structures, 
such as triangular constricted structures [8-10], circular posts 
[7, 11-12], rectangular barriers [13-14] nanopipettes [15-16], 
and oil drops [17]. Of these, the triangular constricted structure 
is the most attractive because the field gradient can be 
preserved over the entire cross section of the trap [8-10]. This 
feature is crucial to the efficiently trapping of the particles or 
the quantitative determination of the concentrated particles for 
trace analysis. Although an increasing number of studies 
exploit EDEP, it does not allow the effective manipulation of 
particles in a microfluidic channel without a full understanding 
of their electrokinetic behaviors. Numerous parameters 
included the geometry of the insulating structure, material 
properties, applied electric field and driving frequency must be 
considered. These factors simultaneously affect the physic 
phenomena of Electrokinesis (EK).  
Electrokinesis (EK) phenomena commonly occur in 
microfluidic applications in which bioparticles and liquids are 
4 
 
The aim of the simulation is also to predict the trapping 
behavior of particles, i.e. particle separation, under 
non-uniform AC electric fields. Hence, a three-dimensional 
(3-D) numerical simulation was conducted to investigate and to 
characterize the electrokinetic phenomena. The simulated 
results were then confirmed by the experimental observations. 
Currently, the physics of an EDEP microfluidic chip are 
numerically calculated using commercial computational fluidic 
dynamics (CFD) software (CFD-ACEU, CFD-RC, USA). 
Flow-, thermal- spray-, and electric-module were introduced 
into this investigation. Table 1 lists the physical properties of 
the materials that were assumed in the numerical simulations. 
III. MATERIAL AND METHODS 
3.1 Design and Fabrication 
The proposed EDEP microfluidic device, comprising a 
pair of triangular insulating structures, a microfluidic channel, 
and a pair of driving electrodes, schematically depicts as 
shown as Figure 1(a). Two 60°-triangular insulating structures 
were constructed a constricting gap to squeeze the electric field 
in a conductive solution to produce a highly electric field 
gradient for trapping particles. Under a highly non-uniform 
electric ﬁeld caused by a constricted gap, polarizable particles 
experience a force in the direction along (positive DEP, pDEP) 
or against (negative DEP, nDEP) the electric ﬁeld gradient 
depending on their dielectric properties. A pair of driving 
electrodes separated by 2 mm was adopted to produce the 
possible required electric field in the microchannel. The 
microchannel dimension exhibits 1000 μm width and 5μm 
depth, respectively. The constriction gap of 5-μm was operated 
in a lower flow resistance to examine the interdependence 
between EO and DEP effect. The constriction gap of 0.3-μm 
was carried out in a relatively higher flow resistance to 
investigate the DEP-only effect.  
 
Figure 1 Schematic EDEP-based microfluidic device, 
comprising a triangular insulating structure, a microchannel, 
and a pair of driving electrodes. Also, boundary condition of 
3-D numerical simulation in a triangular insulating structure 
The EDEP microfluidic chip was fabricated using 
Micro-electromechanical Systems (MEMS) technology. Two 
layers of Ti/Pt (200 Å/ 2000Å) were deposited on a glass 
substrate to form a pair of electrodes by using the lift-off 
process. A silicon wafer was patterned using standard 
photolithography, and then reactive ion etching (RIE) was 
employed to produce a 5μm deep mold with a pair of triangular 
insulating structures and the microfluidic channel. Accordingly, 
the inverse structures with patterned features were cast using 
PDMS materials and the Si mold. Finally, the replicated PDMS 
structures and the glass substrate with Pt electrodes were 
bonded each other by oxygen plasma treatment to yield a 
complete EDEP microfluidic chip. Figure 2(a) shows the 
assembly of the EDEP chip. Figures 2(b) and 2(c) display the 
scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of the Si mold for 
the 5-μm and 0.3-μm constriction gap, respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 (a) Photograph of assembly of EDEP-based chip. 
Optical microscope image of triangular insulating structures 
with the constricted gap (b) 5μm and (c) 0.3 μm, 
respectively.  
3.2 Experiment 
Experimental setup involved a signal generator (33220A, 
Agilent, USA), an oscilloscope (TDS 1002B, Tektronix, USA) 
and a power amplifier (LPA 400, Newtons4th, UK) was 
employed for the investigation of EDEP microfluidic chip. The 
EDEP microfluidic chip was mounted on top of an inverted 
microscope (DMI 4000B, Leica, Germany) for microparticle 
visualization. The polystyrene microparticles (excitation 580 
nm/emission 605 nm, Invitrogen, USA) were used to 
experimentally investigate the electrokinesis effect. The 
fluorescence images of the microparticles were captured using 
a 10X or 20X objective len, as well as a cool CCD 
(Charge-coupled Device) (Cool SNAP HQ2, Photometrics, 
USA). Besides, the viscosity of solution was adjusted to be 1 
cP and a buffer solution of 10 mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0) with a 
fixed conductivity of 730 μS/cm. All experiments were 
conducted at a fixed electric field 90 Vpp/cm with a range of 
driving frequencies 10~5M Hz. 
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
4.1 Numerical Characterization 
To test the functions of the EDEP microfluidic chip, a 
simple insulating-based cell, defined in a microfluidic channel, 
as shown in Fig. 1(b), is considered. An electric field of 90 
Vpp/cm with the range from 10 Hz to 5 MHz was applied as a 
sinusoidal wave across the microchannel through a constricting 
 
 
 
 
Vm×sin(2πft) 
Top: insulation 0

z
T
Surrounding : insulation 
0


z
T
Bottom: free convection 
)( TThA b
(a) (b) 
(c) 
6 
 
 
 
Figure 4 (a) Normalized fluorescence intensity as a function of 
temperature used to calibrate the fluorescence-based 
temperature measurement.(b) False color image of  buffer 
temperature for electroosmotic flow through microchannel. 
The applied voltage V=90Vpp/cm and the frequency f=1 kHz. 
Temperature distribution images (i-iv) were taken 3, 10, 20, 30 
min after switch on.. 
In order to investigate the temperature field distribution 
inside the EDEP chip, a numerical simulation was carried out. 
A 3-dimensional (3-D) thermal model was used to describe the 
problem. The area of surrounding surface (i.e., EDEP thickness) 
is much less than that of top or bottom surface. Certainly, heat 
is mainly dissipated from the top (solid PDMS wall) or bottom 
(glass). Additionally, the thermal conduction of solid PDMS 
cover is also much less than that of glass substrate. Therefore, 
natural free convection condition was imposed on the bottom 
glass surface and insulated on the top solid PDMS wall and the 
surrounding surfaces of the EDEP chip. Notably, the heat 
convection was taken into account in this simulation. The 
boundary condition is depicted as shown as Fig. 1(b). Free 
convection effects are difficult to determine due to their 
complexity. Convection heat transfer coefficient (h) is the 
function of surface geometry, the nature of fluid motion, the 
properties of the fluids, and the bulk fluid velocity. In this 
simulation, the value of h was set as 7.5 Wm−2·K−1 [28] to 
evaluate the convective heat transfer. A heat generation rate 
was assumed to apply on the AC potential. Figure 5(a) 
exhibited the temperature contours of a pair triangular insulator. 
Basically, the temperature is proportional with the square of 
the electric field. Certainly, the higher temperature is occurred 
at the higher electric filed. The temperature distribution 
demonstrated a slighter difference (~0.02K) with the 
surrounding temperature (298 K). Conversely, the temperature 
of the gap is slightly lower than the other region resulting in 
the higher EOF velocity due to the heat convection as shown as 
Figure 5(c). 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 Numerical calculations of (a) top and (b) bottom 
temperature contours and (c) the central x-axial temperature, 
and velocity profiles. The applied potential V=90Vpp/cm and 
the frequency f=1 kHz. 
 
4.2 EOF Characterization 
Theoretically, two balanced forces are exerted on the 
trapped particles. The first force is the DEP force (FDEP), which 
acts as a holding force to stop the particles from moving. The 
other force is Stoke’s force (Fst), which EO fluid acts on the 
particles to transport. Therefore, the net motion of particles is 
determine by both EO and DEP effect. Figure 6(a) reveals that 
the fluorescent 0.2-μm particles passed through the constriction 
when a field with a frequency from 10 Hz to 5 MHz was 
continuously applied. The microparticles flowed forward 
through the constricting gap by EO conveyance, and were not 
trapped by the DEP effect as the driving frequency is below 
810 kHz. Conversely, the flow direction reversed, i.e., 
backward flow, as the driving frequency is beyond 810 kHz. 
EOF effect also experimentally exhibited to occur within a pair 
of triangular insulating constructions. It also showed the higher 
velocities occurred near the constriction wall due to the zeta 
potential effect. Interestingly, a reciprocating motion was 
experimentally observed at a frequency of 810 kHz.  Fig. 6(b) 
plotted the relationship of the EOF velocity and the driving 
frequencies at an applied voltage of 90 Vpp/cm. It is clearly 
seen that the EOF velocity initially increases with the operation 
frequency. However, the EOF velocity reaches a maximum 
25℃
40℃
50℃
60℃
67℃
(i) (ii)
(iii) (iv)
Axial distance( m)
V
el
oc
ity
(
m
/s
)
T
em
pe
ra
tu
re
(K
)
-200 -100 0 100 200
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
175
200
225
250
298
298.01
298.02
298.03
298.04
298.05


Velocity
Top temp.
Bottom temp.
(b) (b) 
(b) 
(c) 
(a) 
8 
 
 
                 
Figure7. (a) A series of images for the trapping of 0.5- and 
1.0-μm particles at the driving frequency of 400 Hz. (b) 
separation performance of 0.5-, 1.0- and 2.0-μm particles at 
the driving frequency of 400 Hz. The applied potential is kept 
as 90 Vpp/cm. 
4.4 Bio-sample Concentration 
The EOF experiment of bio-smaples was evaluated for a 
realistic bioapplication. The concentration of bacteria was 
carried out by the means of the proposed manipulation mode. 
Figure 8 shows the continuous enrichment of live E. coli 
stained with dye, obtained by applying DEP force as well as 
EOF. The applied electric field and the frequency were 400 
Vpp/cm and 130~250 Hz, respectively. Live E. coli cells (6 × 
107 cells/mL) are labeled with dye. (a) Concentration of cells 
under dielectrophoretic effect at frequency 130Hz as sjown in 
Fig. 8(a) .Enrichment of cells in the continuous electroosmotic 
flow as increased with time at the frequency 210 Hz as seen as 
Figs. 8(b) and 8(c). Release of cells at the frequency 250Hz as 
demonstrated as Fig. 8(d) .Based on this means, more and more 
cells were trapped as increased with time without the use of 
external pump. It displayed a potential for rapidly detecting for 
dangerous level of E. coli in water sample. 
 
 
 
    
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 Trapping of E. coli cells in EDEP-based chip. The 
applied electric field and the frequency were 400 Vpp/cm and 
130~250 Hz, respectively. Live E. coli cells (6 × 107 cells/mL) 
are labeled with dye. (a) Concentration of cells under 
dielectrophoretic effect at frequency 130Hz.(b) and (c) 
Enrichment of cells in the continuous electroosmotic flow as 
increased with time at the frequency 210 Hz.(d) Release of cells 
at the frequency 250Hz. 
The final set experiment was performed for a realistic 
bioapplication. i.e., protein. The concentration of protein 
(streptavidin, diameter 3~5 nm, PI=4) was carried out by the 
means of the proposed manipulation mode. In the previous 
study, the microparticle diameter is too smaller (i.e., less than 
0.2μm) to be concentrated by using the constricted gap of 5 
μm. Therefore, streptavidin was concentrated by using the 
constricted gap of 0.3μm. Figure 9 shows the continuous 
enrichment of protein conjugated with FITC dye, obtained by 
applying stronger DEP force as well as weaker EOF drag force. 
The applied potential and the driving frequency are 200 
Vpp/cm and 60 Hz, respectively. Based on this means, more 
and more streptavidins were trapped as increased with time 
without the use of external pump. It displayed a potential for 
rapidly detecting for biosamples. Notably, the protein 
concentration contours (Fig. 9(c)) are similar with the negative 
DEP contours of numerical simulations (referred to Fig. 4(b)). 
 
          
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9 A series of protein (streptavidin) concentration within 
the triangular insulators of EDEP-based chip. The applied 
electric field and the frequency were 200 Vpp/cm and 60 Hz, 
respectively. Streptavidins are labeled with FITC dye. 
.V. CONCLUSIONS 
This work have sucessfully demonstrated the feasibility 
of the microparticle trapping and separation approach utilizing 
an EDEP microfluidic chip. The tarpping or separating effect 
dominates on whether EO or DEF depended on the driving 
frequencies in a given constant electric field of 90 Vpp/cm. In 
this study, the flow produced a forward EOF as the frequencies 
were less than 810k Hz, conversely, that did a backward EOF 
as the driving frequency were beyond than 810k Hz. 
Interestingly, an unstable flow, similar to a reciprocating 
motion, was experimetally observed at a frequency of 810k Hz. 
Experiments reveal that the optimum trapping frequencies for 
continuous flow are the range of 400~3k Hz for 0.5μm, of 
100~810k Hz for 1.0- and 2.0-μm. Furthermore, this apporach 
can be used to continousely flow for the separatation of the 
microparictles. 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) (c) 
(a) 
(c) (d) 
(a) (b) 
(a) (b) 
(d) 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：101年 07 月 10日 
一、參加會議經過 
2012 2nd Journal Conference on Bioscience, Biochemistry and Bioinformatics (JCBBB 2012 
2nd) provided a forum for researchers, practitioners, and professionals from the industry, academia 
and government to discourse on research and development, professional practice in bioscience, 
biochemistry and bioinformatics. JCBBB 2012 2nd was hold in Jeju Island, Korea during June 29-30, 
2012. It is one of the leading international conferences for presenting novel and fundamental 
advances in the fields of bioscience, biochemistry and bioinformatics. It also serves to foster 
communication among researchers and practitioners working in a wide variety of scientific areas with 
a common interest in improving bioscience, biochemistry and bioinformatics related techniques. 
二、與會心得 
Our research paper title is Potential Application for Micro-particles Manipulation Utilizing 
Electrokinesis in an Electrodeless Dielectrophoresis. This s study presented the feasibility of the 
microparticle manipulation, i.e., trapping and separation approach, utilizing an electrodeless 
dielectrophoresis microfluidic chip. Experimental observations were facilitated to investigate the 
microparticle electrokinesis behavior by tuning of the operation parameters, i..e, driving frequency 
and applied potential. These results not only revealed the fluid cloud be generated an electroosmotic 
flow (EOF), but also categorized the optimum trapping/separating schemes for the different particle 
sizes. Besides, the proposed operating mode can be used to continuously trap/separate particles and 
simultaneously convey them through the microfluidic device, eliminating the need for an additional 
計畫編號 NSC  100-2221-E-214-012 
計畫名稱 奈米粒子在三維無介電泳晶片之電動特性研究 
出國人員
姓名 林志龍 
服務機構
及職稱 義守大學機械與自動化工程學系 
會議時間 101年 06 月 29 日 
101年 06 月 30 日 會議地點 Jeju Island, South Korea. 
會議名稱 2012 2nd Journal Conference on Bioscience, Biochemistry and Bioinformatics 
發表論文
題目 
Potential Application for Micro-particles Manipulation Utilizing Electrokinesis in an 
Electrodeless Dielectrophoresis 
 3
 
Preparation 
 
Oral Presentation 
 
 
 5
 
 7
 
 9
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 奈米粒子在三維無電極式介電泳晶片之電動特性研究
計畫主持人: 林志龍
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-214-012- 學門領域: 微機電系統技術
無研發成果推廣資料
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
期刊論文 2 2 100% 
目前一篇已經發表在國
際期刊 (L.J. Chien, 
C.Y. Lee, J.C. Pan, 
Y.L. Gao, C.H. Chiou, 
and J.L. Lin, ＇
Potential 
Application for 
Micro-Particles 
Manipulation 
Utilizing 
Electrokinesis in an 
Electrodeless 
Dielectrophoresis 
Chip, ＇
International 
Journal of 
Bioscience, 
Biochemistry and 
Bioinformatics, Vol. 
2, No. 3, May 2012)。
另外，亦完成二篇英文
論文撰寫，其中一篇＇
Numerical and 
Experimental 
Characterizations of 
Electrokinesis in an 
Electrodeless 
Dielectrophoresis 
Chip＇將投稿於國際期
刊 JJAP ；另一篇＇
Characterization 
Investigations of 
Microparticle 
Separation Utilizing 
Electrokinesis 
within an 
Electrodeless 
Dielectrophosesis 
Chip ＇亦已完成，目前
正由外國人修改中，待
修改完成後將投稿於國
際期刊 Sensors。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
國外 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
