行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
共面波導饋入介質透鏡天線 
Coplanar Waveguide-Fed Dielectric Lens Antenna 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2218-E-002-056 
執行期間：95 年 9 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：陳士元   國立台灣大學電信工程學研究所 
參與人員：汪秉孝、施佑霖 
 
 
I. 中文摘要 
本研究計畫中，吾人設計並實作出一工
作於 37 GHz 頻段之共面波導饋入介質透鏡
天線。設計時，為了預測延伸式半球形介質
透鏡之遠場輻射場形，吾人亦發展出一簡化
之近似計算方法。我們先將整個介質透鏡表
面分成四個區域分別討論，發現只有其中一
個表面區域需要被考慮，利用該區域的表面
等效波源並套入遠場積分公式，便可輕易計
算得到其遠場輻射場形。透過與實作天線量
測結果之驗證，我們所提出的近似方法雖然
簡單卻也十分準確，相信對於未來延伸式半
球形介質透鏡天線之設計者將有所裨益。 
關鍵詞：共面波導、介質透鏡、遠場積分、
高增益天線 
II. ABSTRACT 
A simple method to approximately 
calculate the far-field pattern of an extended 
hemispherical dielectric lens is proposed in 
this project. The entire lens surface is divided 
into four regions, of which only one is 
considered in our simplified method. By 
applying the far-field integral to the equivalent 
sources on that surface region, radiation 
patterns in the E- and H-planes can thus be 
obtained. Although the presented method is 
simple and approximate, satisfactory 
agreements are obtained through a 37-GHz 
prototype lens antenna. 
Keywords: coplanar waveguides, dielectric 
lens, far-field integral, high-gain antennas. 
III. INTRODUCTION 
To achieve high radiation performances, 
such as high gain, pencil beam, and low 
side-lobe level, the dielectric lens antenna has 
been one of the most popular candidates, 
especially at millimeter- and 
submillimeter-wave frequencies [1]-[6]. The 
dielectric lens also has been often used to 
eliminate the substrate or surface-wave modes 
of planar antennas due to the finite thickness 
of the dielectric substrate used [4]-[6]. In 
addition, printed antennas placed on dielectric 
lenses tend to radiate more power into the lens 
side and reduce the backward radiation [7]. 
According to [8], the ideal shape of a 
dielectric lens is an ellipsoid. However, the 
elliptical dielectric lens is impractical 
regarding its complexity of fabrication. The 
extended hemispherical dielectric lens, which 
can be designed to approximate the ideal 
elliptical surface, is used throughout this 
project instead of the elliptical dielectric lens 
simply because of its simple structure. 
In this project, a simple method to 
approximately predict the radiation pattern of 
the extended hemispherical dielectric lens is 
presented. The method is mainly based on that 
dominant in the far-field radiation. 
V. DIVISION OF LENS SURFACE 
The entire surface of the extended 
hemispherical dielectric lens except the 
bottom part is divided into four regions as 
shown in Fig. 2. The surface of the upper 
hemisphere is composed of regions 1 and 2, 
while that of the lower cylinder is composed 
of regions 3 and 4. Note that these regions as 
well as the lens structure are rotationally 
symmetric to the z axis. They are described in 
detail as follows: 
A. Region 1 
This is the main region responsible for 
the far-field radiation and is therefore the 
only one being taken into consideration 
in our simplified method. Within this 
region, rays from the origin are partially 
reflected and partially transmitted at the 
dielectric/air interface. From the 
geometry of Fig. 1, the following relation 
holds between θ and θin. 
( ) ( )[ ] θθθθθ tancossin LRR inin ++=+  
When ( )rcin εθθ 1sin 1−== , which is 
the critical angle of total reflection, we 
reach the boundary between regions 1 
and 2. 
B. Region 2 
Within this region, rays from the origin 
are totally reflected at the dielectric/air 
interface. As shown in Fig. 3, direct rays 
illuminating region 2 are totally reflected 
and would be totally reflected more than 
once by the hemispherical surface until 
going back to the cylindrical part. 
Although the fields just outside the 
dielectric/air interface of region 2 are not 
zero, they are evanescent fields that 
contribute very little to the far-field 
radiation. Therefore, they are neglected 
in this work. 
C. Region 3 
Similarly, total reflection occurs 
throughout region 3, which is a portion of 
the cylindrical surface. The total reflected 
rays may contribute to the lens radiation. 
However, the feed antenna is usually 
designed to have a sharp main beam for 
better illumination, and the field intensity 
radiated by the feed antenna degrades 
rapidly as the angle θ increases. 
Therefore, those rays totally reflected by 
region 3 are insignificant and also 
neglected in our analysis. 
D. Region 4 
As the angle θ increases beyond the 
region 3 boundary, where θ and the 
critical angle θc are complementary, or θ 
= 90° − θc, partial reflection and partial 
transmission occur at the dielectric/air 
interface of region 4. However, since this 
region is illuminated by the weakest field 
intensity part from the feed, which has a 
negligible effect on the lens radiation, we 
omit radiations from region 4 as well. 
VI. FEED ANTENNA 
A uniplanar hybrid-slot array antenna fed 
by a coplanar waveguide (CPW) is proposed 
in this project and used as the feed antenna for 
the dielectric lens. The geometry of the 
antenna is depicted in Fig. 4. It is fabricated 
on the alumina substrate with dielectric 
constant εr = 9.9, loss tangent tanδ = 0.0005, 
and thickness h = 0.254 mm. Only one layer 
of metallization is used, on which the feeding 
CPW, the radiating slotline sections, and the 
interconnecting slotline sections are etched. 
All the horizontal slotline sections of 
antenna used is the proposed hybrid-slot array 
antenna having similar E- and H-plane 
patterns. The measured and predicted 
radiation patterns for the prototype lens 
antenna are in good agreement. 
IX. REFERENCES 
[1] H. Mieras, “Radiation pattern 
computation of a spherical lens using Mie 
series,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., 
vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 1221-1224, Nov. 1982. 
[2] W. Rotman, “Analysis of an EHF 
aplanatic zoned dielectric lens antenna,” 
IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 32, 
no. 6, pp. 611-617, June 1984. 
[3] L. Mall and R. B. Waterhouse, 
“Millimeter-wave proximity-coupled 
microstrip antenna on an extended 
hemispherical dielectric lens,” IEEE Trans. 
Antennas Propagat., vol. 49, no. 12, pp. 
1769-1772, Dec. 2001. 
[4] D. F. Filipovic, S. S. Gearhart, and G. M. 
Rebeiz, “Double-slot antennas on 
extended hemispherical and elliptical 
silicon dielectric lenses, ” IEEE Trans. 
Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 41, no. 10, 
pp. 1738-1749, Oct. 1993. 
[5] D. F. Filipovic, G. P. Gauthier, S. Raman, 
and G. M. Rebeiz, “Off-axis properties of 
silicon and quartz dielectric lens 
antennas,” IEEE Trans. Antennas 
Propagat., vol. 45, no. 5, pp. 760-766, 
May 1997. 
[6] G. V. Eleftheriades, Y. Brand, J.-F. Zurcher, 
and J. R. Mosig, “ALPSS: A 
millimeter-wave aperture-coupled patch 
antenna on a substrate lens,” Electron. 
Lett., vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 169-170, Jan. 
1997. 
[7] M. Kominami, D. M. Pozar, and D. H. 
Schaubert, “Dipole and slot elements and 
arrays on semi-infinite substrates,” IEEE 
Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 33, no. 6, 
pp. 600-607, June 1985. 
[8] R. E. Collin, Antenna and Radiowave 
Propagation, McGraw-Hill Book 
Company, New York, 1985. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Geometry of the extended 
hemispherical dielectric lens. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Surface regions of the extended 
hemispherical dielectric lens. 
計畫成果自評 
 
 
本計畫之研究成果與原計畫完全相符，滿足預期目標且依照原訂進度完成。 
最核心的研究成果有二，其一為實作出工作於 37GHz 頻段之共面波導饋入介質透鏡天
線。由於該頻段天線在實作與量測上面臨許多困難及挑戰，本人所指導之研究生於計畫執
行的過程中可因而習得相關的知識與技術經驗，對於國內發展下一代無線通訊技術產業，
應能有所貢獻。 
其二為吾人所提出之簡化設計方法。由於目前的數值電磁技術及商用套裝軟體仍無法
有效地分析介質透鏡天線，吾人所提出之近似計算方法便顯得重要，利用該方法可以簡單
且迅速地設計出延伸式半球形介質透鏡天線，且具有相當的準確度。 
本計畫之研究成果預計將發表於 2007年 12月的亞太微波會議 (Asia-Pacific Microwave 
Conference, Bangkok)[1]。在此之前，吾人亦將所發展出的相關高頻天線技術整理發表於
2007 年 3 月的 URSI/SRS Radio Science Conference [2]與 2006 年 11 月的天線與傳播國際研
討會 (International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation, Singapore) [3]。 
 
 
[1] Shih-Yuan Chen and Powen Hsu, “A Simplified Method to Calculate Far-Field Patterns of 
Extended Hemispherical Dielectric Lens” to appear in 2007 APMC. 
[2] Ju-Hung Chen, Jiun-Peng Chen, I-Ching Lan, Powen Hsu, and Shih-Yuan Chen, “Simplified 
GTEM Cell for RFID Tag Antenna Measurement,” 2007 URSI National Radio Science 
Conference, Chung-Li, Taiwan, Mar. 2007. 
[3] Shih-Yuan Chen, Wei-Yu Mu, and Powen Hsu, “60-GHz sequentially-rotated 1x4 circular 
patch array antenna fed by microstrip line,” 2006 International Symposium on Antennas and 
Propagation, Nov. 2006. 
 
