 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
高速光纖傳輸系統之偏極化色散量測與補償研究 
Measurement and compensation of polarization mode dispersion in 
high-speed fiber transmission systems 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-259-025 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：董正成 副教授   東華大學 電機工程學系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
本計畫研究『高速光纖傳輸系統之偏
極化色散量測』。在理論模擬上探討偏極
化色散的特性及對於光纖傳輸系統的影
響，在實驗進行上建立一套光學式的偏極
化色散量測實驗架構，精準快速地量測光
纖傳輸系統中的偏極化色散效應。並以此
為基礎，架設即時主動回饋的偏極化色散
補償架構。 
在偏極化色散的量測部分，進行偏極
化色散理論模擬並架設一個精準快速的量
測系統，能對各種光纖元件、模組、系統
所產生的偏極化色散效應加以量測，縮短
量測時間在數秒之內完成。並要求此一量
測系統的不準度在 1﹪以下，且須使量測系
統在量測偏極化色散從 0.1 ps 到 30 ps 時都
能發揮作用。將採用精確度高的 Poincare
球的量測方式來作為量測的基本架構，而
使用 S-vector 向量幾何分析來處理實驗中
所得到的資料。 
 
關鍵詞：偏極色散補償、光纖傳輸、偏極
化色散、雙折射、群速度差、偏極態 
 
Abstract 
 
This project is mainly to study the effect 
of polarization mode dispersion (PMD) in 
fiber transmission systems theoretically and 
experimentally. To identify how the PMD 
influences the fiber transmission, we set up 
an optical experiment structure and study the 
proper way to the PMD compensation of 
transmission systems. Base on these 
structures, we will demonstrate a real-time 
auto compensation system for different kinds 
of transmission system. 
The characteristic and measurement of 
the PMD are investigated. We build up the 
simulation program of the PMD to probe the 
characteristic of PMD in fiber transmission 
systems. The precise and high-speed PMD 
measurement structure will be set up, which 
can measure the effects of PMD produced by 
the optical devices, modules and the systems 
in few seconds. We demand the error of the 
measuring system to be below 1 % and the 
system can work in measuring of 0.1 ps to 30 
ps of the PMD. Highly accurate Poincare 
Sphere method is adopted and S-vector is 
used to analyze the data got from the 
experiment. 
 
Keywords: Polarization dispersion 
compensation 、 Fiber transmission 、
Polarization mode dispersion 、
Birefringence、Differential group delay、
Polarization state 
 
二、前言 
 
Polarization effects, although 
recognized in the earliest observations of 
optical fiber, have historically played a minor 
role in the development of lightwave 
transmission systems. The primary reason for 
this is that commercial optical receivers 
detect optical power rather than the optical 
field and thus are insensitive to polarization. 
In recent years the importance of 
polarization in lightwave system has grown 
as a result of two developments. First, the 
optical amplifier has dramatically increased 
the optical path lengths achievable with 
single- mode fiber and at the same time 
increased the number of optical elements that 
 4
In order to measure the PMD value of 
the fiber (including components or 
transmission systems), we must have a stable 
light source. The most of all, the light source 
should be maintained in a stable polarization 
state. Besides, the accuracy of the 
wavelength of the output light is also 
essential. The tunable laser used in this PMD 
measurement setup has the absolute 
wavelength accuracy of 0.015nm while the　  
tuning wavelength range form 1510 to 
1640nm according to its specifications. 
The fibers or the components under test 
would be placed just after the tunable laser. 
In fact we can place any optical device into 
this setup, as long as the light its wavelength 
near by 1550nm can transmit through this 
device. The analyzer contains two parts, a 
polarization meter and a computer. The 
polarization meter consists of a polarized 
mirror and a photo detector. The photo 
detector detects the power distribution over 
the space while rotating the polarization 
meter. The power distribution figures out the 
Stokes vectors of the injected light. The 
computer receives the data of Stokes vector 
detected by polarization meter and calculate 
to DGD value of the light by using the 
analyzing techniques. 
The degree of linear polarization of a 
signal represents the fact that all temporal or 
frequency components of the optical signal 
are more or less linearly polarized along the 
same state of polarization. It can take values 
between 1, when these components are 
polarized along the same state of polarization 
(SOP), and 0 when the polarization of these 
components is scrambled. After propagation 
through a fiber exhibiting PMD, even a 
completely linear polarized signal emerges 
with a DOLP smaller than 1. 
The basic principal of our PMD 
compensator is to insert at the link output an 
optical device that is dynamically adjusted to 
recover a high DOLP value, and hence a low 
binary error rate (BER). This is achieved by 
a polarization maintaining fiber of fixed 
DGD which PSPs are oriented by a 
polarization controller driven by a feedback 
signal that dynamically maximizes the output 
DOLP. 
As shown in Fig. 3, we use the tunable 
laser with a wavelength tuning in the range 
of 1550~1640nm. We try to compensate the 
PMD induced by a 50km SMF (single mode 
fiber). The PMD value of this 50km SMF is 
1.249680ps, measured by the PMD 
measurement setup. Another key point of this 
setup is the voltage controlled polarization 
controller. We use the voltage controlled 
polarization controller instead of normal 
polarization controller in order to make the 
setup an automatic scheme. Labview 
installed in the computer holds all the actions, 
like changing the wavelength of the input 
light, tuning the voltage controlled 
polarization controller and acquiring the data. 
Then we choose a proper length of the PMF 
to make there exit the same PMD value with 
the SMF in order to compensate the PMD in 
this system. 
 
六、結果與討論 
 
In Fig. 4, we show the diagram to 
indicate the analyze method that named as 
“Three point method”. We measure the DGD 
value by analyzing the trajectory of the 
output polarization states on Poincaré sphere. 
The second order PMD effect is often a 
handicap while analyzing the trajectory 
because the principal axes will slightly 
change with frequency. Now we choose a 
segment of the trajectory that is short enough 
to make the second order PMD negligible. In 
other words, we limit the wavelength (or 
frequency) of the input light in a range near 
by a particular wavelength (1550nm as 
example). 
In order to acquire the accuracy and the 
reliability of this PMD measurement setup, 
we use 8cm PMF (polarization maintaining 
fiber) as the test fiber. According to the 
strong mode guiding nature of PMF fiber, the 
principal states are fixed.  
We have propose a completely setup of 
PMD measurement system using Poincaré 
method. High accuracy, high speed, easy to 
struck, getting full information (Stokes 
vectors, DOLP, etc.) are the advantages of 
this method. To compare the measurement 
results of this setup with the PMD analyzer 
of TL, we can say that the accuracy of this 
PMD measurement setup up to 0.1ps at least. 
 Fig. 1. The frequency domain effect of PMD. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. The experimental setup of PMD 
measurement. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. The diagram of the PMD compensator 
based on the maximization of the DOLP. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. The sketch map of three point method 
apply to analyze the PMD effect. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. The Diagrams of output data using 
Poincaré sphere method ( 8 cm PMF ). 
 
 
 
Table 1. The repeatedly PMD measurement 
results using Poincaré sphere method. 
 
 
 
Table 2. The repeatedly PMD measurement 
results using Three point- Poincaré sphere 
method. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Experimental setup of PMD 
compensation using tunable laser. 
 
 6
