 1 
卡門濾波器應用於乳房核磁共振影像之腫瘤偵測 
Mass Detection Based on Kalman filter in Breast MR Images 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-167-003 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：王圳木  國立勤益科技大學/資訊與電能科技研究所 
共同主持人：陳瑞茂   國立勤益科技大學/資訊工程系 
計畫參與人員：林耿呈   國立中央大學/電機工程系 
朱邵威   國立勤益科技大學/電子工程系 
張家豪   國立勤益科技大學/資電所 
      王勝葦   國立勤益科技大學/資電所 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
在本文裡，我們提出一種基於頻譜的
特徵關係來做ㄧ序列 MR 影像的分類和偵
測的演算法。稱為線性混合卡門濾波器 
(KFLM) ，它使用一個輔助的方程式，稱
為含量狀態方程式(ASE)，用來紀錄特徵含
量。因此，卡門濾波器可以估計並且遞歸
的來更新特徵含量，且特徵含量有突然的
變化時，可以被含量狀態方程式給偵測出
來。雖然卡門濾波器不是一個新的概念，
但透過卡門濾波器用於解決線性混合問題
來做核磁共振造影的分類與偵測卻是新的
應用。它的理念是將一序列 MR 影像塑造
成線性混合的材質(例如含脂肪組織，乳腺
體組織，腫瘤組織，肌肉)，然後使這些重
要的材質可以經由線性混合卡門濾波器給
分類和偵測出來。實驗結果顯示 KFLM 提
供了另一種有效的 MR 影像分類技術。 
關鍵詞：線性混合卡門濾波器(KFLM)、分類
(Classification)、腫瘤、核磁共振造影(MRI) 
 
Abstract 
 
In this study, a series of classifications 
and detection algorithms called Kalman 
Filter-based Linear Mixing Method. (KFLM) 
are adopted for MR Imaging based on 
characteristics relationships of spectrums. It 
is an auxiliary equation called Abundance 
State Equation (ASE) used to record the 
abundance of characteristics. Therefore, 
Kalman Filter can be used to estimate and 
update (recursive) the abundance of 
characteristics. When the abundance of 
characteristics is subject to abrupt change, it 
can be detected by Abundance State 
Equation.(ASE)Although Kalman Filter is 
not a new concept, Kalman Filter used to 
solve linear mixing related problems and 
classify and detect magnetic resonance 
imaging are new applications. The concept 
involves creating a series of MR images into 
linear mixing tissues. (Such as fatty tissue, 
glandular tissue, tumor tissue, and muscular 
tissue) Then, these important tissues are 
classified and detected using Kalman 
Filter-based Linear Mixing Method. 
Experimetnal results show that KFLM is 
another effective MR Imaging classification 
technique. 
 
Keywords: Kalman Filter-based Linear 
Mixing Method(KFLM), Classification, 
tumor, magnetic resonance imaging(MRI). 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) has 
become a useful modality because it provides 
unparallel capability of revealing soft tissue 
characterization as well as 3-D visualization. 
It produces a sequence of multiple spectral 
images of tissues with a variety of contrasts 
using three magnetic resonance parameters, 
spin-lattice (T1), spin-spin (T2) and dual 
 3 
performance of KFLM in MR classification. 
Section V concludes some comments. 
 
2. LINEAR SPECTRAL MIXTURE 
MODEL 
 
A multispectral MR image can be 
considered as an image cube where the third 
dimension is a spectral dimension specified 
by TR/TE parameters. As a result, each 
image pixel is actually a column vector, of 
which each component corresponds to a 
specific TR/TE parameter value. In many 
occasions, such intra-pixel spectral 
correlation (i.e., spectral correlation among 
the components within a single pixel vector) 
may uncover crucial information that cannot 
be provided by inter-pixel spatial correlation, 
that is, spatial correlation among sample 
vectors. In traditional spatial-based image 
processing the techniques are generally 
developed to explore such inter-pixel spatial 
correlation rather than intra-pixel spectral 
correlation. Consequently, they may not be 
effective when they come to exploration of 
intra-pixel spectral correlation. In order to 
take into account the inherent spectral 
properties present in an MR image pixel 
vector, a general approach, called linear 
unmixing which has been widely used for 
mixed pixel classification in remote sensing 
may be applicable.  It models an image 
pixel vector as a linear mixture of substances 
that are assumed to be present in the pixel, 
then unmixes the image pixel by finding the 
abundance fraction of each of these 
substances in the pixel. More precisely, linear 
unmixing can be briefly described as follows.  
It views a MR image as an image cube 
where each pixel is considered to be a 
column vector and is modeled as a linear 
spectral mixture of substances resident in the 
pixel. More precisely, assume that there are p 
spectrally distinct substances { }pmmm ,,, 21 L  in the image and r(x,y) is an 
image pixel vector represented by an 1×l  
column vector where l is the number of 
spectral bands and denote the image pixel at 
the location (x,y). Let M be an pl ×  
signature matrix, denoted by [ ]psss L21  
where js  is an 1×l  column vector 
represented by the spectral signature of the 
j-th substance jm  in the pixel vector r. It 
further assumes that )(x,yα  is a 1×p  
abundance column vector associated with M 
given by ( )Tpααα L21=α  where T is the 
transpose, jα  denotes the fraction of the 
j-th signature js  present in the pixel vector 
r. Then a linear spectral mixture model used 
to describe r is given by 
 )( )( )( x,yx,yx,y nMαr +=         (1) 
The n in Eq. (1) is an 1×l  column 
vector and can be interpreted as either 
additive noise or measurement error. The 
linear spectral unmixing is to develop a 
method that finds or unmixes the abundance 
vector α  from the pixel vector r through Eq. 
(1). By viewing an MR image sequence as a 
multispectral image we can stack 
T1-weighted, T2-weighted and PD-weighted 
images one atop another as an image cube 
where each pixel in the cube is actually a 
pixel vector. The dimensionality of the pixel 
vector, l is determined by the MR image 
sequence used to form the cube. In this case, 
Eq. (1) models each pixel vector in the cube 
as a linear mixture of tissue substances 
resident in the MR images. Specifically, r is a 
pixel vector of the image cube formed by an 
MR image sequence. [ ]psssM L21= is a 
signature matrix made up of the spectral 
signatures { }psss ,,, 21 L  of tissue substances { }pmmm ,,, 21 L  in the MR image cube such 
as Fatty tissue, Glandular tissue, Tumor mass, 
Muscle, etc. The associated abundance vector 
α  represents the abundance fractions of 
these p spectral signatures { }psss ,,, 21 L  
present in the pixel vector r. In light of this 
model formulation, MR image classification 
can be solved by unmixing the abundance 
vector α  in a mixed pixel represented by Eq. 
(1). 
 
 5 
4. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
 
In this section, we present two sets of 
experiments, one set of computer-generated 
phantom images and another set of real 
magnetic resonance images. The phantom 
image experiments enable us to conduct a 
quantitative study and error analysis for the 
KFLM while the real MRI experiments allow 
us to assess its utility and effectiveness in 
medical diagnosis. 
In order to evaluate the performance of 
the KFLM, the widely used c-means 
method[23] (also known as k-means) is used 
for comparative analysis. The reason to select 
the c-means method is because it is a 
spatial-based pattern classification technique. 
In order to make a fair comparison, the 
implemented c-means method always 
designates the desired target signature d as 
one of its class means with d fixed during 
iterations. 
 
4.1. Computer Simulations for Phantom 
Experiments 
 
The computer-generated phantom 
images shown in Fig. 1 have four bands, each 
of which have the same size of 419x419 and 
were made up of four overlapped circles and 
one ellipse with their radiance spectral 
signatures shown in Fig. 2. The total number 
of image pixels is 175561. These circles and 
ellipse represent structure areas of four 
interesting breast tissues corresponding to 
Fatty tissue, Glandular tissue, Tumor mass 
and Muscle. From left to right are 
background (BKG), Fatty tissue, Glandular 
tissue, Tumor mass and Muscle. The gray 
level values of these areas in each band were 
simulated in such a fashion that these values 
reflect the average values of their respective 
tissues in real MR images shown in Fig. 5. 
Table 1 tabulates the values of the parameters 
used by the MRI pulse sequence and the gray 
level values of the tissues of each band used 
in the experiments. A zero-mean Gaussian 
noise was added to the phantom images in 
Fig. 1 so as to achieve various signal-to-noise 
ratios (SNR) ranging from 5db to 20db. Since 
there are considerable changes in 
performance between SNR = 5 db and SNR 
= 20 db, only these results will be presented 
in this paper for illustration. Figs. 3(a-b) 
show the KFLM-classification results of 
Fatty tissue, Glandular tissue, Tumor mass 
and Muscle for SNR = 5db and 20db 
respectively. Similarly, Figs. 4(a-b) show the 
classification results of Fatty tissue, 
Glandular tissue, Tumor mass and Muscle 
produced by the c-means method for SNR = 
5db and 20db respectively. Comparing Fig. 3 
to Fig. 4, the KFLM performed significantly 
better than the c-means method. In particular, 
in the case of SNR = 20db the KFLM 
classified Fatty tissue, Glandular tissue, 
Tumor mass and Muscle almost 100% 
correctly, whereas the c-means method still 
has difficulty with discriminating Muscle 
from background. As a matter of fact, 
according to our experiments the c-means 
method was not stable until the SNR reached 
to 45db. So, the classification maps in Figs. 4 
were actually the average of classification 
maps resulting from 40 implementations of 
the c-means method. As a result, the images 
have random dots in the regions of BKG and 
Muscle. This implies that the c-means 
method had difficulty with classification of 
BKG and Muscle. Interestingly, even in the 
case of SNR = 45 db, the results produced by 
the c-means method were only comparable to 
that in Fig. 3(b) produced by the KFLM for 
SNR = 20 db. This is due to the fact that the 
KFLM took advantage of mixed pixel 
classification capability. 
 
4.2. Real MR Image Experiments 
 
MR Imaging adopted in this study is 
extracted from Dept. of Diagnostic 
Radiology, Tri-service General Hospital. 
Samples were collected from Siemens 1.5-T 
System magnetic resonance imaging system. 
Images are multispectral images of chest and 
breasts. MRI is capable of producing images 
in coronial view, saggital view and axial 
view. Saggital view images are selected in 
 7 
154-169. 
[2] Atkins MS, Blair T, BT. “Fully automatic 
segmentation of brain in MRI.”  IEEE 
Trans. on Medical Imaging 1998; 17 (1): 
98-107. 
[3] Dhawan AP, Zavaljevski A, Sarwal A, 
“A system for MR brain image 
segmentation.” 18th Annual International 
Conference of the IEEE Engineering in 
Medicine and Biology Society, 1996: 
732-733. 
[4] Verard L., Fadili J, Ruan S, Daniel Bloyet 
D, “3D MRI segmentation of brain 
structures.” 18th Annual International 
Conference of the IEEE Engineering in 
Medicine and Biology Society, 1996: 
1081-1082. 
[5] Reddick WE, Glass JO, Cook EN, Elkin 
TD, Deaton RJ. “Automated 
segmentation and classification of 
multispectral magnetic Rresonance 
images of brain using artificial neural 
networks.” IEEE Transactions on 
Medical Imaging, 1997; 16(6): 911-918. 
[6] Alirezaie J, Jernigan ME, Nahmias C, 
“Automatic segmentation of cerebral MR 
images using artificial neural networks.” 
IEEE Transactions on Nuclear Science, 
1998; 45(4); 2174-2182. 
[7] Li JS, Chen RM, Huang YM, “Medical 
image segmentation using mean field 
annealing network.” IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, 1997: 2; 
855-858. 
[8] Lin JS, Cheng, KS, Mao CW, 
“Multispectral magnetic resonance 
images segmentation using fuzzy 
Hopfield neural network.” International 
Journal of Biomedical Computing, 1996; 
205-214. 
[9] Lin JS, Cheng, KS, “Modified Hopfield 
neural network with fuzzy c-means 
technique for multispectral MR image 
segmentation.” IEEE International Conf. 
on Image Processing, 1996. 
[10]  Atkins MS, Mackiewich BT. “Fully 
automatic segmentation of brain in MRI.” 
IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging, 
1998; 17(1): 98-107. 
[11] Clark MC, Hall LC, Goldgof DB, 
Velthuizen R, “Automatic tumor 
segmentation using knowledge-based 
techniques.” IEEE Transactions on 
Medical Imaging, 1998; 17(2): 187-201. 
[12] Windham JP, Abd-Allah MA, Reimann 
DA, “Eigneimage filtering in MR 
imaging.” J. Computer Assisted 
Tomography, 1998; 12(1): 1-9. 
[13] Haggar AM, Windham JP, Reimann DA, 
Hearshen DC, Froehich JW. Eigneimage 
filtering in MR imaging: an application in 
the abnormal chest wall. Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine, 1989; 11: 85-97. 
[14] Soltanian-Zadeh H, J.P. Windham JP. 
Novel and general approach to linear 
filter design for contrast-to-noise ratio 
enhancement of magnetic resonance 
images with multiple interfering features 
in the scene. J. Electronic Imaging, 1992; 
1(2): 171-182 
[15] [Soltanian-Zadeh H, Windham JP, Peck 
DJ, A.E. Yagle AE. A comparative 
analysis of several transformations for 
enhancement and segmentation of 
magnetic resonance image scene 
sequences. IEEE Trans. Medical Imaging, 
1992; 11 (3): 302-316. 
[16] Soltanian-Zadeh H, Saigal R, Haggar 
AM, Windham JP, Yagle AE, Hearshen 
DC. Optimization of MRI protocola and 
pulse sequence parameters for 
eigneimage filtering.  IEEE Trans. 
Medical Imaging, 1994; 13(1): 161-175. 
[17] Soltanian-Zadeh H, Windham 
JP, ”Optimal linear transformation for 
MRI feature extraction.” IEEE Trans. on 
Medical Imaging, 1996; 15(6): 749-767. 
[18] Chang, C.-I and C. Brumbley, "A 
Kalman filtering approach to 
multispectral image classification and 
detection of changes in signature 
abundance," IEEE Trans.on Geoscience 
and Remote Sensing, vol. 37, pp. 
257-268, Jan. 1999. 
[19] S. Haykin, Adaptive Filtering Theory, 
3rd ed. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 
Prentice-Hall, 1996. 
[20] C.M. Wang, C.C. Chen, Y.N. Chung, 
 9 
  
       fatty tissue     glandular tissue 
  
       tumor mass        muscle 
 (a) SNR = 5db 
 
  
       fatty tissue     glandular tissue 
  
       tumor mass        muscle 
 (b) SNR = 20db 
Figure 4. Detection results of using c-means 
method 
 
   
(a) band 1         (b) band 2 
  
         (c) band 3         (d) band4 
Figure 5: Four bands real breast MR images 
 
   
(a)                 (b) 
   
(c)                 (d) 
Figure 6: Classification results of using 
KFLM for the image in Fig. 5. (a) fatty tissue; 
(b) glandular tissue; (c) tumor mass; (d) 
muscle 
   
(a)                 (b) 
   
(c)                 (d) 
 
Figure 7: Classification results of using 
c-means method for the images in Fig. 5 (a) 
fatty tissue; (b) glandular tissue; (c) tumor 
mass; (d) muscle 
 
