行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
LCD導光板封閉模熱壓成型製程研究 
Closed-Die Hot Embossing for Fabrication of an LCD Light 
Guide Plate 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-492 -007 
執行期間：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：陳峰志 
協同研究人員：郭慶祥 
中文摘要 
熱壓製程技術可用來製作高精度與高品質之具微結構塑膠光學元件，熱壓製程主要的優點
有材料流動率低與殘留應力低，但由於開放式的模具不能用來熱壓具兩面垂直之的導光板
微結構。本研究將以封閉模熱壓的方式進行具三面微結構導光板之製程開發，主要探討封
閉模熱壓複製製程參數間之影響，並導入田口法，分析熱壓成型之最佳製程參數。 
關鍵字：導光板、熱壓、複製、最佳化 
Abstract.  
Hot embossing (HEM) is a technique to fabricate plastic microstructures with high precision and 
high quality, currently used for a few optical applications. The advantages of HEM are low 
material flow, low internal stress that can induces defects in optical applications, and low flow 
rates. HEM, an open-die compression process, cannot be used to produce an light guide plate 
(LGP) with microstructures on two perpendicular surfaces. In this study, a closed-die HEM 
technology was applied to generate an LGP with three-sided patterns. The design, fabrication of 
structured mold surfaces and the results of the replication by closed-die HEM are presented. The 
Taguchi method was applied to study the effects of process parameters on the LGP quality. 
Incidence insert, reflective insert and emission insert are placed inside the mold. Optimization 
was conducted to study the effects of process conditions on the replication ability.  
Keywords: Light Guide Plate, Hot Embossing, Replication, Optimization. 
Introduction 
Recently, many researchers have made liquid crystal displays thinner, brighter, and more 
lightweight, as well as devoting much effort to improve the quality of backlight systems. A 
backlight system converts a linear light source into an area of uniform light. A conventional LCD 
backlight system is composed of light sources, a light guide plate (LGP), and optical sheets such 
as reflection sheet, diffusion sheet, and prism sheets. This system has a light incidence surface at 
one side of the LGP. Based on the principle of total internal reflection, the light rays are reflected 
and refracted by an array of etched or ink-printed white spots at the bottom of the LGP (reflecting 
surface). The light emanated from the top surface of the LGP (emergence surface) is dispersed by 
the diffusion sheet, which also weakens bright or dark fringes made by spots. All parts in a 
backlight system, including the LGP, are required to have superior optical performance. This 
requires a very accurate shape replication and low optical anisotropy from the molding related 
stresses. 
In recent years, plastics have begun to show great commercial potential for the manufacturing of 
micro-structured parts and injection molding is one of the most important processes. An 
important advantage of injection molding is that it can be used to make complex geometries in a 
To  me a s u r e  t he  mi c r o s t r u c t u r e  p r o f i l e ,  a  s u r f a c e  p r o f i l e r  ( Form Talysurf PGI 635,  
Taylor Hobson I n c . )  w a s  u s e d .  T h e  me a s u r i n g  a c c u r a c y  o f  t h i s  e q u i p me n t  i s  
3 . 2 n m.  
 
Hot Embossing 
The replication quality was analyzed for all three micro-structured surfaces. The V-groove depths 
of the incidence insert, reflective insert and emergence insert are 41.98μm, 23.52μm and 17.35μm, 
respectively. The objective of the experiments was to determine the effects of process conditions 
on the replication height and the optimum set of factors. With this optimum set of process 
conditions, the replication height would be closest to the theoretical value (the microstructure 
depth of the insert). Effects of processing parameters on the height of a replicated microstructure 
were studied using the Taguchi method. Embossing temperature, embossing force, embossing 
period and demolding temperature were selected, and their levels are shown in Table 1. 
According to the levels of each parameter, an L9(34) orthogonal table was used to perform the 
tests. 
 
Table 1 The three levels of effective factors for closed-die HEM of PMMA. 
Levels 
Factors 1 2 3 
embossing temperature, A(℃) 130 140 150 
embossing force, B(kN) 25 30 35 
embossing  period, C(s) 70 90 110 
demolding temperature D(℃) 70 80 90 
 
Experimental Results 
The replication quality was analyzed for incidence surface, reflective surface and emergence 
surface, respectively. Figure 2 shows the factorial response plots for three individual surfaces. For 
incidence surface, the optimum parameters are A3B3C1D2. For reflective surface, the optimum 
parameters are A3B3C2D1. For emergence surface, the optimum parameters are A3B3C2D1. The 
optimum parameters are different for these three surfaces. It can be concluded that embossing 
temperature of 150℃ (A3) and embossing force of 35kN (B3) give the optimum results for all 
three surfaces. To show the replication ability of three microstructured surfaces, the embossing 
period and the demolding temperature were assigned as 110 seconds and 70℃. The average 
replication percentages on incidence surface, reflective surface and emergence surface are 97%, 
98% and 99%, respectively. The related standard deviations are 0.55μm, 0.23μm and 0.07μm. 
 
     
(a)                                                  (b)                       
(c) 
Figure 2. The fringe patterns for embossing temperature of (a) 130℃, (b) 140℃ and (c) 150℃ 
 
In this study, a photoelastic stress measurement system was developed and it consisted of 
conventional polarimeters and a digital camera. Qualitative stress analysis was conducted by 
recording the optical images of LGP products. To show the residual stress in an LGP, the 
embossing period and the demolding temperature were also assigned as 110 seconds and 70℃. 
The images were visually compared to each other based on the fringe patterns observed. Figure 2 
