 2
is to use nanodot arrays so that the LSPR 
signals can be uniform in the prepared 
samples.  
  In this project, atomic force microscopy 
(AFM) nanolithography was used [4] to 
fabricate Au nanodot, single nanowire and 
nanowire arrays. The resists in reported 
works usually have a bi-layer or tri-layer 
structure and are more complicated than a 
single-layer resist. In recent years, metal 
nanodots are successfully fabricated by 
using a single-layer resist and a 
straightforward metal evaporation procedure. 
[5, 6]  
  The LSPR spectra of the fabricated Au 
nanodots have been obtained and compared 
with simulations based on Mie theory. For 
the nanowires, the shape anisotropy has 
significant influence on the LSPR spectra 
and they have higher sensitivities in some 
situations. The LSPR spectra of the Au 
nanowire arrays have been studied by 
varying the geometric parameters of the 
nanowires. 
 
III. Experiment 
  A schematic diagram of the experimental 
procedure is shown in Fig. 1. A PMMA film 
with a thickness of around 50 nm is first 
prepared on a substrate. By indenting or 
scratching the PMMA film at a force of 
around 2 µN with the probe of an atomic 
force microscope, nanoholes or nanogrooves 
can be created on the film. After coating a 
thin Au film by electron beam evaporation 
and soaking the sample in acetone to remove 
the PMMA, Au nanodot or nanowire arrays 
can be fabricated.  
  Au nanostructures with various sizes are 
created for future optical measurements. For 
nanodot samples, they are annealed at a high 
temperature 900 °C for the creation of 
spherical nanodots. Details of the 
experimental procedures can be found in our 
previous publication. [3] 
 
Figure 1. Schematic diagrams of the 
experimental procedures for the fabrication of 
Au (a) nanodots and (b) nanowires. 
 
  By operating an optical microscope in the 
dark-field mode, which is shown in Fig. 2, 
LSPR images of the metal nanostructures 
can be obtained. With an additional 
spectrometer coupled to the microscope, 
scattering spectrum can be measured under a 
magnification of 1000 times the actual size. 
  With the employment of Au 
nanostructures with various sizes, the 
relationships between the size and the peak 
are established. The peaks in experimental 
spectra are compared with theoretical results. 
The peaks originating from LSPR of 
spherical nanodots can be calculated using 
commercial software based on the 
formulism of Mie scattering. 
 4
and quartz,. The result indicates the shape 
and size change of the nanodots, which 
approves the advantage of a post thermal 
treatment for forming a gold nanodot array 
with better shape and smaller average dot 
size.  
  The LSPR scattering spectrum in Fig. 4(c) 
shows an excellent quantitative agreement 
with the simulation plot predicted by Mie 
theory of a 72 nm gold sphere in the respect 
of resonance peak and their full width at half 
maximum (FWHM) values, meaning that 
gold dots in the array were shrink to nearly 
perfect spheres with the average size down 
to 72 nm after annealing, which can be 
examined and verified from the SEM image 
of Fig. 4(a) inset; while the yellow-green 
color reflected by the array also in 
agreement with previous reported work. [7, 
8]  
 
Figure 4. SEM images of (a) an Au nanodot 
array after annealing at 900 °C and (b) Optical 
image, which appears green, of (a). (c) 
Experimental and (d) simulated spectra, 
respectively. 
 
(2) LSPR of Au Nanowires 
  The AFM images of a nanogroove array 
after nanoscratching and a single 
nanogroove are shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b), 
respectively. The nanogrooves appear as 
though they are elevated lines in Fig. 5(a) 
due to the pile-up of the displaced polymer, 
which was also observed in previous works. 
By proceeding e-beam Au deposition and 
lift-off procedures, Au nanowire array is 
fabricated. The SEM image of the Au 
nanowires fabricated from the same pattern 
in Fig. 5(a) is shown in Fig. 5(c). A zoomed 
image is presented in Fig. 5(d) and the width 
is around 70 nm. [6] 
 
Figure 5. AFM images of (a) a nanogroove 
array after nanoscratching and (b) a single 
nanogroove. SEM image of (c) the Au 
nanowires fabricated from the pattern and (d) a 
single nanowire showing the width is around 70 
nm. 
 
  Another nanowire array fabricated by the 
same procedure mentioned previously has a 
thickness of 20 nm and a width of 50 nm. 
The SEM image of an Au nanowire array 
and a zoomed view of a single nanowire are 
shown in Figs. 5(a) and 5(b), respectively. 
