 1
I. Introduction 
 
The peer-to-peer (P2P) paradigm [1] has emerged as a promising solution to the 
dissemination of digital contents owing to its superior scalability. In a P2P system, 
peers (or users) not only consume the resources from the system, but also reciprocate 
by contributing their own resources. For example, peers in file sharing systems share 
files kept in their storage space with each other. In the case of media streaming 
systems, peers are expected to allot a portion of outbound bandwidth for the delivery 
of streaming content to other peers in return for their perceived service. Obviously, 
the performance of a P2P system heavily hinges on the cooperation among peers. 
However, practical experience shows that contribution of a peer will reduce its 
network access performance and lessen the perceived QoS, which can be a 
disincentive for peers to behave altruistically [2]. Even worse, some observations 
corroborate the prevalence of free riders [3][4][5], which go to great lengths to 
maximize their benefit from the system while contributing nothing. The natural 
disincentive for contribution and the existence of free riders could significantly 
degrade the performance of P2P systems and thus necessitate an incentive mechanism 
to encourage peers to contribute. 
 
Although many works on file sharing systems have been devoted to aggressively 
enticing peers to contribute or to defensively preventing peers from free riding, the 
characteristics distinguishing file sharing systems from media streaming systems 
make those incentive mechanisms designed for the former inapplicable to the latter. A 
P2P file sharing system is characterized by the following two features.  
 
z There is often asymmetry of interest between peers in file sharing systems 
due to the wide variety of files shared. As shown in Fig. 1, it is often the 
case that one peer j holds files the other peer i wants while i has no files j is 
interested in. The asymmetry of interest makes it almost impossible for 
peers to obtain what they want by simply transact with each other. 
z Most P2P file sharing systems presume the persistent participation of peers; 
that is, peers may leave for a period of time and return later. The persistent 
participation of peers signifies that the contribution and consumption of a 
peer may not occur during the same period. 
 
 3
exchanges are free of coercive measures and the unit cost for one further level of 
quality depends on peers' underlying values, that is, how much contribution one 
further level of quality is worth to them. 
 
In this project, peers are considered to be strategic. Strategic peers strive for 
maximum utility by maximizing the benefit derived from the system and minimizing 
the cost incurred during the streaming session. The utility perceived by a peer i is 
determined by its utility function: 
( , ) ( ) ( ),        [0,min( , )],   [0, ]i i i i i i i i i iu r f b r c f r R M f F= − ∈ ∈      (1) 
, where ri and fi denote the number of descriptions peer i receives and forwards, Ri and 
Fi the inbound and outbound capacities of peer i, measured in descriptions, and M the 
total number of descriptions constituting the streaming content. As shown in (1), the 
utility function ui(ri,fi) is composed of a benefit function bi(ri) and a cost function ci(fi). 
The benefit function bi(ri) captures the happiness or satisfaction that peer i gains from 
receiving ri descriptions, and has a positive effect on ui. bi(ri) is assumed to be strictly 
increasing and concave in ri such that it conforms to the law of diminishing marginal 
utility. At the opposite end, the cost function ci(fi) captures the disutility caused by 
contributing fi descriptions to others, and has a negative effect on ui. ci(fi) is assumed 
to follow the law of increasing marginal cost and thus is strictly increasing and 
convex in fi. Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 illustrate an example of utility functions with the 
aforementioned properties.  
 
Given that peers are considered to be strategic, they will not make any trade that 
will curtail the utility they perceive. In other words, peer i will trade with others only 
if the utility will not be curtailed, that is, 0iu∆ ≥ . Let (ri,fi) and (ri’,fi’) denote the 
number of descriptions peer i receives and forwards before and after trading with 
others, respectively. Then we can derive inequality (2) as follows: 
' '
' '
' '
    0
( , ) ( , ) 0
[ ( ) ( )] [ ( ) ( )] 0
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )                       (2)
i
i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i
i i i i i i i i
u
u r f u r f
b r c f b r c f
b r b r c f c f
∆ ≥
⇒ − ≥
⇒ − − − ≥
⇒ − ≥ −
 
, which means that for peer i to trade, the benefit derived from the trade must be able 
to at least offset the cost incurred from the trade. Based on (2), we can evaluate at 
most how many descriptions peer i is willing to forward to others in return for one 
more incoming description, called the maximum marginal buying price of peer i and 
denoted as *iBP . By substituting 
' 1i ir r= +  and 'i if f k= +  into (2), *iBP  can be 
 5
 
In our proposed market-based incentive mechanism, each peer i advertises its 
selling price, iSP , to the server on arriving and keeps it up-to-date. If a peer i wants 
to trade with others and thereby improves the quality it perceives, it will informs the 
server of its buying price, iBP . On receipt of iBP  from peer i, the server, serving as 
a go-between, responds with a peer list comprising all the possible sellers for peer i. 
For any two peers i and j to trade with each other, it is a prerequisite that i jBP SP≥  if 
peer i is a buyer and j is a seller, or j iBP SP≥  if peer j is a buyer and peer i is a seller. 
Therefore, the seller list sent to peer i is { | }i j iS j SP BP= ≤ . After receiving the seller 
list, peer i will identify the seller with the lowest selling price, which can best enhance 
the utility it perceives.  
 
In the market-based incentive mechanism, a peer advertising a sufficiently low 
selling price may receive lots of requests from other peers for buying. In such a case, 
the peer will determine which peer it will trade with by means of auction and trade 
with the peer that can offer the highest buying price. 
 
III. Results and Conclusion 
 
In this project, we propose a market-based incentive mechanism for P2P media 
streaming systems to prevent peers from free riding and encourage peers to contribute 
to the systems. In our proposed incentive mechanism, peers have to cooperate with 
each other to improve the quality they perceive. No coercive measures are imposed on 
peers. We evaluate the performance of the market-based incentive mechanism by 
comparing it with tit-for-tat and fixed rate approaches. We generate 100 peers and 
classify them into two categories, high capacity and low capacity. For high capacity 
peers, the forwarding capacity is uniformly distributed in [1.5*L, 2*L], where L 
denotes the total number of descriptions constituting the streaming content. The 
forwarding capacity of low-capacity peers is uniformly distributed in [0.5*L, L]. We 
assume that all peers are capable of receiving full quality streaming content, that is, 
the receiving capacity of all peers is equal to L. The preliminary experimental results 
are shown in Fig. 4, where the rate of the fixed-rate incentive mechanism is varied 
from r=2 to r=4. From Fig. 4, we can observe that in the proposed market-based 
incentive mechanism, peers can gains more utility than in the other incentive 
mechanisms. The main advantage of our proposed market-based incentive mechanism 
