英文關鍵詞： License Plate Recognition； Super-Resolution； 
License Plate Image； Local Linear Embedding 
 
 II
中文摘要 
車牌辨識系統在視訊交通監控系統中經常扮演一個重要的角色。然而，低解析度的車牌影像常常
會造成車牌辨識系統的誤判，因此車牌影像高解析化處理的目的便是增強這些車牌影像的解析度。本
研究提出一個以學習為基礎之車牌高解析化技術，此方法主要包括兩個模組：車牌影像擷取模組及車
牌影像高解析化模組。在車牌影像擷取模組中，車牌影像是從低解析的交通監控影像中擷取出來。在
車牌影像高解析化模組中，首先收集一群高解析車牌影像及產生之對應低解析車牌影像當作訓練用影
像集。接著從這些訓練用影像集中取得分群好的高解析及低解析的對應小片(patch pairs)。被擷取的低
解析車牌影像被切割成一群重疊的小片，每一小片都可以利用局部線性嵌入(LLE)的方法產生對應的高
解析小片，最後這些高解析度小片便可組合成一張高解析的車牌影像。實驗結果顯示本文所提的技術
之可應用性。 
關鍵詞：車牌辨識、超解析、車牌影像、局部線性嵌入 
 
Abstract 
License plate recognition (LPR) usually plays an important role in video surveillance systems.  
However, low-resolution (LR) license plate images will cause the recognition systems to fail.  The objective 
of super- resolution (SR) on license plate images is to enhance the resolution of those images.  In this paper, 
we propose a learning-based SR approach on license plate images.  The proposed approach is comprised of 
the following two modules: a license plate extraction module and an image SR on license plates module.  In 
the first module, license plates are extracted from a LR traffic surveillance image.  In the second module, 
several high-resolution (HR) license plate images and the generated corresponding LR ones are first collected 
as the training images.  Next, the clustered HR and LR patch pairs are obtained from the training images.  
Then, the extracted LR license plates are cut into overlapped patches, and the clustered HR and LR patch 
pairs are used to generate the HR patch for each cut LR patch by using locally linear embedding (LLE) 
algorithm.  Finally, the HR license plate images can be reconstruction.  Preliminary experiments on realistic 
image data demonstrate the applicability of the proposed approach. 
keywords: License Plate Recognition; Super-Resolution; License Plate Image; Local Linear Embedding; 
 2
the training images.  Then, the extracted LR license plates are cut into overlapped patches, and the clustered 
HR and LR patch pairs are used to generate the HR patch for each cut LR patch by using locally linear 
embedding (LLE) algorithm.  Finally, the HR license plate images can be reconstruction. 
2. System configuration 
Fig.1 shows the flowchart of the proposed system.  The proposed system includes two major modules: a 
license plate extraction module and an image SR on license plates module.  The first module is how to 
extract the license plate which we want to enhance, while the second module is how to apply image SR 
processing on license plates based on a learning algorithm. 
Fig. 2 shows the block diagram of the license plate extraction module.  First, a GMBM is applied to 
extraction the foreground object.  Then, we apply the low level image processing to locate the license plate 
regions.  Finally, we can obtain license plate images. 
In the image SR on license plates module, it can be divided into three major steps.  First, the 
pre-processing is applied to obtain a training set of HR-LR patch pairs.  Second, the extracted LR license 
plates are cut into overlapped patches, and the training set of HR-LR patch pairs is used to generate the HR 
patch for each cut LR patch by using LLE algorithm.  Third, the HR license plate images can be 
reconstruction from the generated HR patches. 
 
 
Fig.1: System flowchart. 
 4
 
(a) Noise removal result (b) A detected vehicle 
Fig.4: Vehicle detection. 
After detecting vehicles, the license plates on the vehicles will be extracted.  Since the license plate must 
be installed in the lower half part of a vehicle, we can locate the license plate only in this part.  First, we 
detect vertical edges in the vehicle image, and then apply the connected component algorithm and some 
morphology methods to remove noise.  Finally, according the aspect ratio of license plates, we can locate the 
license plate of vehicle.  As shown in Fig. 5, the license plate can be located from a vehicle image. 
 
(a) The lower half part of a vehicle (b) Vertical edge detection 
(c) Noise removal result (e) License plate location 
Fig.5: License plate localization. 
4. Image super-resolution on license plates 
In this section, the problem under consideration is described.  The process for solving the problem is 
then presented.  The details of implementation will be discussed later. 
4.1 Problem description 
In the process of camera imaging, there is a natural loss of resolution due to the optical distortion, 
 6
4.3 The high-resolution patch generation 
Given an extracted LR patch in the low dimensional space, the purpose of this work is to generate the 
corresponding HR patch in the high dimensional space.  Applying LLE algorithm, we must find the k nearest 
LR patches in low dimensional space from the training set.  At first, we calculate the distance between the 
extracted LR patch and the mean of each cluster in the training set.  Then, we can apply k-nearest near (KNN) 
to find k nearest patches only in the cluster with the minimum distance.  After k nearest patches are found, 
we must calculate the reconstruction weights for each patch in LLE algorithm.  The reconstruction weights 
can be calculate by minimum the reconstruction errors as follows: 
2 2
1 1
( )
k k
j j j j
j j
y w w y  
 
      (1)
1
1


k
j
jw  (2)
where y and j denote the feature vectors of the extracted LR patch and the j nearest patch, respectively.  To 
calculate wj, Equation 1 can be modified as follows:
 2
1 1 1
( )
k k k
j j j k jk
j j k
w y w w C
  
    (3)
( )( )jk j kC y y     (4)
where Cjk denotes the local covariance matrix. According to the Lagrange approach, wj can be calculated as 
follows: 
1( )j jk kkw C y      (5)
where λis the Lagrange multiplier.  Fig. 7 shows an example of reconstruction weights calculation. 
 
Fig. 7: Reconstruction weights calculation. 
After the reconstruction weights are calculated, they are used to generate the HR patch by combining with 
the HR patches corresponding to the k nearest patches, as shown in Fig. 8. 
 8
5. Experimental results 
We conducted a series of experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method.  The training 
HR license plate images include 30 images, which contain all possible letters and numbers.  Fig. 10 shows 
the training set of HR and LR license plate images. 
 
 
(a) Collected HR license plate images 
 
(b) Generated LR license plate images 
Fig. 10: The training set of HR and LR license plate images. 
In the first experiment, we used synthesized data to evaluate the performance of the propose approach.  
First, we took a HR license plate image and reduced its resolution and applied Gaussian blur on it, as shown 
in Fig. 11. 
 
 
(a) Original HR license plate image 
  
(b) LR image (σ=1) (c) LR image (σ=2) 
Fig.11: The original HR license plate image and synthesized LR license plate images. 
For comparison, we also tested the performances of single-image SR approaches, such as the bi-cubic 
method, the bilinear method, and the nearest neighbor method.  Fig. 12 shows the reconstruction results by 
applying our method and the above three methods.  Our method clearly outperforms the other three methods. 
 
(a) (b) (c) (d) (e) 
 
 
Fig.12: Comparison of our method with the other three methods in the synthesized LR license plate images. (a) 
The synthesized license plate images.  (b) Our method. (c) The bi-cubic method. (d) The bilinear method. (e) 
The nearest neighbor method. 
 10
  
  
(a)  (b) 
Fig. 15: Comparison of our method with the bi-cubic method in different resolutions of license plate images. 
(a) The bi-cubic method. (b) Our method. 
 
6. Conclusion 
We have proposed a local learning-based SR approach on license plate images.  The proposed approach 
involves two modules: a license plate extraction module and an image SR on license plates module.  In the 
first module, we extract license plates from a LR traffic surveillance image.  In the second module, we take 
several HR license plate images and generate the corresponding LR ones as the training images.  Next, the 
clustered HR and LR patch pairs are obtained from the training images.  Then, the extracted LR license 
plates are cut into overlapped patches, and the clustered HR and LR patch pairs are used to generate the HR 
patch for each LR patch by applying the LLE algorithm.  Finally, the HR license plate images can be 
reconstruction.  The preliminary experiment results show the feasibility of the proposed approach. 
 
7. References （與執行本計畫相關之著作、專利、技術報告、或學生畢業論文等） 
[1] C. Anagnostopoulos, I. Anagnostopoulos, V. Loumos, and E. Kayafas, “License Plate Recognition from 
Still Images and Video Sequences: A Survey,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 
vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 377- 391, 2008. 
[2] A. Kuhl, T. Tan, and S. Venkatesh, “Model-Based Character Recognition in Low Resolution,” Proceedings 
of the IEEE International Conference on Image Processing, San Diego, CA, 2008, pp. 1001- 1004.  
[3] R. Y. Tsai and T. S. Huang, “Multi-frame Image Restoration and Registration,” in Advances in Computer 
Vision and Image Processing, vol. 1, chapter 7, JAI Press, Greenwich, Conn, USA, 1984, pp. 317- 339. 
[4] S. C. Park, M. K. Park, and M. G. Kang, “Super-Resolution Image Reconstruction: A Technical 
Overview,” IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 21- 36, May 2003.  
[5] Z. Lin, J. He, X. Tang, and C. K. Tang, “Limits of Learning-Based Superresolution Algorithms,” 
International Journal of Computer Vision, vol. 80, no. 3, pp. 406- 420, 2008.  
 12
（Local Geometry），再利用其對應之高解析度部分，產生此輸入影像對應高解析度之模樣，組合成一
張對應之高解析度車牌影像。 
在社會影響上，利用我們車牌影像超解析化技術，可以讓原本模糊的影像變得更清楚以利後續車
牌辨識的進行或可以讓警方取得嫌犯的重要訊息。 
 2
speech，speaker 為 Michael Lightner 教授，任職於 Electrical, Computer, and Energy 
Engineering at the University of Colorado, Boulder, USA。其主講題目為「Machine 
Learning for Assistive Technology」，首先簡單地介紹 Assistive Technology(AT)的概念
與發展，接著介紹 machine learning 在 AT 最新發展的應用與趨勢，並探討遇到的困
難與未來研究的方向。另一場 plenary talk 的 speaker 為 Mehmet Emin Yuksel 教授，
任職於 Dept. of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Erciyes University, Kayseri, 
Turkey。其主講題目為「Digital Image Restoration Operators Based on Neuro-Fuzzy 
Techniques」，首先簡單介紹 fuzzy 及 neurofuzzy 系統的基本概念及其在數位影像處理
的應用。接著介紹 neuro-fuzzy(NF)的技術如何被有效地應用在三個影像處理的應用：
(1)noise filter、(2)noise detector、及(3)edge extractor。 
此次會議主要都是 oral presentation，包含了 Artificial Intelligence (I)、Architecture, 
Protocols & Internet Computing、Cybernetics (I)、Artificial Intelligence (II)、Mobile & 
Wireless Broadband (I)、Quality, Security, and Management、Mobile & Wireless 
Broadband (II)、Soft Computing (I)、Cybernetics (II)、Network Planning and Policy、
Mobile & Wireless Broadband (III)、Soft Computing (II)、Data Mining & Software 
Development、Mobile & Wireless Broadband (IV)、Architecture, Protocols、System & 
Applications、Mobile & Wireless Broadband (V)、Satellite & Aerospace、Artificial 
Intelligence (III)、與 Machine Vision 等 20 場 session。 
本人此次的報告是被安排在第三天「Machine Vision」的 session 裏，此 session
共包含了 5 篇論文，我所報告的論文為第四篇：Video Condensation for Video 
 4
未來國內若有同樣性質的會議也可朝向此一方向努力。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議議程與論文發表全文的光碟片。 
六、其他 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：梁祐銘 計畫編號：100-2221-E-156-010- 
計畫名稱：車牌影像超解析化技術 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
