Tec232 Y.C. Lu et al. / Optical Fiber
(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 1. (a) The electrical three-level signals generated by the LPFs with different
bandwidths; (b) the transmission curve of an MZM as a function of the driving
voltages; (c) spectra of optical duobinary signals.
These three-level signals originate in the standard two-level sig-
nals that pass through LPFs. Figure 1a plots three-level signals
after fifth-order Bessel LPFs with 3 dB bandwidths of 2.5 and
3 GHz to present the impact of the filter bandwidth on these
signals. When the filter bandwidth is smaller (2.5 GHz), the
amplitudes of oscillation at the middle level are smaller, but the
fluctuations at the highest and the lowest levels are greater be-
cause fewer high-frequency components pass through the LPF.
Figure 1b plots relationship between driving voltages and the
transmission of the optical power of an MZM biased at the null
point. The operating ranges of peak-to-peak driving voltages in
each arm of an MZM are represented by the percentages of Vπ .
Because the transmission curve is inherently sinusoidal, as elec-
trical signals biased at the null point, the optical powers that
correspond to the highest and lowest levels of the electrical sig-hnology 13 (2007) 231–235
nals are the same. Consequently, the electrical three-level sig-
nals are converted into the optical two-level signals. Figure 1c
compares the spectra of simulated duobinary signals obtained
with different LPFs and at different driving voltages. Due to
larger proportion of electrical signals operated in the linear re-
gion of the sinusoidal transmission of an MZM as shown in
Fig. 1b, lowering the driving voltages reduces the spectral band-
widths, and reducing the bandwidths of LPFs shows the same
effect.
Figures 2a and 2b exhibit the simulated duobinary eye-
diagrams generated by 2.5 GHz LPFs with 100 and 50% driving
voltages, respectively. Two differences are readily observed;
firstly, the amplitude jitters of marks in Fig. 2a are smaller than
those in Fig. 2b, because, at a 100% driving voltage, the fluc-
tuations at the highest and the lowest levels of the electrical
signals are suppressed at the top of the sinusoidal transmis-
sion of an MZM. Secondly, the ripples of spaces are reduced by
lowering the driving voltages and the eye-opening is broadened
horizontally. Similar effects are observed in 3 GHz LPFs case,
as presented in Figs. 2c and 2d. However, with 3 GHz LPFs,
lowering driving voltages reduces the increase in the amplitude
jitters of marks, but increases the suppression in the ripples of
spaces and the widening of the eye-opening. Hence, the sys-
tem performance can be improved by properly selecting the
driving voltage. Using pseudorandom binary sequence (PRBS)
with length of 212 − 1, Fig. 2e plots the simulation results of
optimum driving voltages that correspond to the best sensitivi-
ties (bit error ratio (BER) = 10−9) following 150 km of SSMF.
Evidently, the optimized driving voltage decreases as the filer
bandwidths increased in order to balance their counter effects
on pulse shapes. Namely, wider LPFs can be applied to adjust
the ripples and the eye-opening without significantly increasing
the amplitude jitters. Therefore, as shown in Fig. 2e, the signals
based on 3 GHz LPFs at the optimum driving voltage outper-
form that based on conventional 2.5 GHz LPFs.
3. Experimental results
Filters with bandwidths of 2.5 and 3 GHz are adopted in
the experiments herein to manifest the effects of the bandwidth
of the LPFs. Figure 3 shows the experimental setup of an op-
tical duobinary transmission system. A 10 Gbps PRBS with
a length of 215 − 1 is sent into the duobinary pre-coder. The
electrical signals then pass through a fifth-order LPF to gen-
erate the three-level signals. The amplitudes of the three-level
signals are adjusted by electrical amplifiers and the signals are
then sent into an MZM for which the Vπ equals 5.8 V. The in-
put optical power sent to the fiber is set to −2 dB m. Once the
transmission distance longer than 100 km, an EDFA is put in
mid-span to compensate the fiber loss. At the receiver, an op-
tical pre-amplified receiver with an optical 3 dB bandwidth of
40 GHz is employed.
Figures 4a and 4b plot the measured sensitivities as a func-
tion of the transmission distance and the driving voltages based
on 2.5 and 3 GHz LPFs, respectively. The insets display eye-
diagrams at 0 km with 25, 100%, and optimum driving voltages.
Figure 4a reveals that the optimum driving voltage is 100%, and
Tec234 Y.C. Lu et al. / Optical Fiber
Fig. 3. Configuration of an optical duobinary transmission system (PG: pattern
generator; VA: variable attenuator; OBF: optical bandpass filter).
(a)
(b)
Fig. 4. Measured sensitivities as a function of the transmission distance and the
driving voltages based on (a) 2.5 GHz LPFs and (b) 3 GHz LPFs.
on 2.5 and 3 GHz LPFs with respective optimum driving volt-
ages at back-to-back and after 240 km of SSMF transmission.
At back-to-back, using a 2.5 GHz LPF has about 0.8 dB bet-
ter receiving sensitivity than using the 3 GHz LPF. However,
following 240 km of transmission, the transmission penalty of
using a 2.5 GHz LPF is 3.8 dB while for the 3 GHz LPF is only
0.5 dB. As a result, there is about 2.5 dB sensitivity improve-
ment using a 3 GHz LPF with 88% driving voltage compared
with using a 2.5 GHz LPF with 100% driving voltage.
4. ConclusionIn this investigation, a 100% driving voltage was demon-
strated not necessarily to yield the best results concerning the
duobinary modulation format both numerically and experimen-hnology 13 (2007) 231–235
Fig. 5. BER curves of the duobinary signals based on 2.5 and 3 GHz LPFs with
respective optimum driving voltages after 0 and 240 km of SSMF transmission.
tally. The trade-off among the amplitude jitters of marks, the
ripples of spaces and the eye-opening enables the duobinary
signals based on broader LPFs to be optimized with lower
driving voltages. Accordingly, selecting wider LPFs offers the
flexibility to adjust the driving voltage and improves system
performance. Under optimum conditions, a duobinary transmit-
ter based on 3 GHz LPFs exhibits better dispersion tolerance
than conventional 2.5 GHz LPFs. Furthermore, the experiments
indicate a 2.5 dB sensitivity improvement following 240 km of
SSMF transmission.
Acknowledgment
The authors would like to thank the National Science Coun-
cil, of the Republic of China, Taiwan for financially supporting
this research under Contract No. NSC 93-2215-E-009-027.
References
[1] T. Ono, Y. Yano, K. Fukuchi, T. Ito, H. Yamazaki, M. Yamaguchi,
K. Emura, Characteristics of optical duobinary signals in terabit/s capacity,
high-spectral efficiency WDM systems, J. Lightwave Technol. 16 (1998)
788–797.
[2] A.J. Price, N.L. Mercier, Reduced bandwidth optical digital intensity mod-
ulation with improved chromatic dispersion tolerance, Electron. Lett. 31
(1995) 58–59.
[3] T. Franck, T.N. Nielsen, A. Stentz, Experimental verification of SBS sup-
pression by duobinary modulation, presented at the Eur. Conf. Optical
Communication (ECOC ’97), Edinburgh, UK, September 1997, paper
M03B.
[4] J. Lee, H. Jang, Y. Kim, S. Choi, S.G. Park, J. Jeong, Chromatic dispersion
tolerance of new duobinary transmitters based on two intensity modulator
without using electrical low-pass filters, J. Lightwave Technol. 22 (2004)
2264–2270.
[5] H. Kim, C.X. Yu, D.T. Neilson, Demonstration of optical duobinary trans-
mission system using phase modulator and optical filter, IEEE Photon.
Technol. Lett. 14 (2002) 1010–1012.
[6] D. Penninckx, M. Chbat, L. Pierre, J.-P. Thiery, The phase-shaped binary
transmission (PSBT): A new technique to transmit far beyond the chro-
matic dispersion limit, in: Proc. ECOC ’96, vol. 2, Oslo, 1996, pp. 173–
176.
