 2 
前言 
本研究計畫為一延續性研究，接續 97與 98年度計畫(計畫編號 NSC 97-2218-E-262-001 與 NSC 
98-2221-E-262-001)「以創新科技採納之行銷觀點探討銀髮族服務作業系統設計（I）（II）」的研究成果，
針對銀髮族居家照護服務與對創新科技的採納行為，透過系統化的服務體驗工程方法論的使用，建構
出專屬的生活實驗室，並邀請銀髮族實際參與研究，進行體驗與實證。 
根據內政部(2009)針對台灣人口結構分析的調查資料顯示，台灣自 1993年起邁入高齡化社會以
來，65歲以上老年人口比例逐年攀升，2008年底已達到 10.4%，老化指數(65歲以上老年人口對 14歲
以下人口比例)為 61.5%，創下歷年新高，表示人口結構正以驚人的速度改變。人口變遷影響的層次相
當廣泛，最直接的就是衝擊到家庭結構與居住型態(薛承泰，2008)，依照人口學的觀點，低生育率加
上低死亡率的雙重影響下，將加速高齡化的發展，而影響家庭或居住型態改變的原因，除了人口學的
因素外，隨著時間、環境與經濟的變遷，人們在想法與偏好上也逐漸產生改變，回顧銀髮族居住型態
的變化，可以發現傳統上與子女同住的居住方式已有逐年下降的趨勢，取而代之的是獨居(包括僅與配
偶同住及獨居)型態的興起(內政部，2005)。 
目前居家照護服務的發展，主要集中在遠距居家照護服務（包含遠距醫療與遠距照護）與居家式
照護服務兩個部份。其中遠距居家照護服務的起源，是基於網路資訊科技的發展，透過 ICT 資通訊管
理系統的應用，搭配人性化的科技設備，建構出新型態的健康醫療照護服務平台，提供整合性與即時
性的遠端健康照護服務，以提升銀髮族退休後的生活品質；居家式照護服務則是屬於社會福利的一部
份，強調以服務為主要導向，包含居家護理、居家復健、居家服務、家庭托顧、喘息服務、在宅服務、
無障礙設施改善、緊急救援連線、營養餐飲服務、到宅評估與輔具服務等類型，銀髮族按照其身體狀
況與需求選擇合適的服務模式，而政府在其中也扮演著統籌者與協助者的角色，以期達到銀髮族在地
老化、在宅安養的生活照顧目標，進而推廣至每一個銀髮家庭。 
雖然居家照護服務立意上在於節省醫療照顧資源，並提升銀髮族退休後的生活品質，以解決未來
銀髮族居家照護的問題，然而目前居家照護的服務內容與相關設備，在銀髮族的照護服務效果上，並
沒有明確的衡量方式與評估標準，因此如何制定出合適且準確的衡量方式與評估標準，關鍵在於銀髮
族對這些服務與設備的觀感與接受程度，並透過服務實驗的設計，強調銀髮族真實的使用體驗與驗證，
才能呈現出最真實的結果。 
基於以上論述，不難發現未來的居住結構與社會趨勢將會受到人口結構改變與人性需求的影響，
而走向在地老化的養老方式，因此照護服務的模式，由傳統的集中機構式照護，逐漸轉變成在家老化
的居家式照護，並透過科技的導入與使用，以達到銀髮族自立生活與生活品質提升的目的。不過值得
注意的是，目前居家照護的服務內容與相關設備，在銀髮族的照護服務效果上，並沒有明確的衡量方
式與評估標準，因此衡量銀髮族居家照護服務的使用成效與接受度，進而建構出適合銀髮族使用的居
家照護服務系統是相當重要且有意義的研究方向。 
 
 
研究目的 
本研究計畫基於前述研究主題在相關領域的重要性、缺乏性以及連貫性，所擬定的主要研究目的
 4 
其次在銀髮族採納科技產品的過程上，Mathur (1999)以社會學的觀點，強調家庭功能對採納過程
的影響，提出一個銀髮族採納新產品模型，針對六項科技產品（無線電話、VCR、微波爐、有線電視
頻道、長途電話方案以及自動提款機）進行調查，探索家庭成員的協助、大眾媒體的互動以及非家人
來源對於銀髮族採納科技產品過程的影響，結果發現家庭成員的協助、非家庭人員與社會文化變數（教
育程度與所得水準）皆會影響銀髮族對於科技產品的採納；Zeithaml and Gilly (1987)以掃描器、電子轉
帳與自動提款機為實驗標的，研究影響銀髮族採納科技的原因與採納過程的特性，依照Rogers的採納
理論，將採納分成社會經濟地位、個性、溝通媒體行為，探討影響採納的過程，研究發現教育程度、
收入、自我管理、居住型態以及媒體行為皆會影響銀髮族採納科技產品的過程。 
另一方面，根據本研究97年度計劃的研究成果，發現銀髮族採納新科技產品可以區分為採納動機、
採納過程以及採納結果評估三個階段，每個階段有許多因素可能直接或間接地影響銀髮族的採納行
為，其中包含文化與個人因素、產品因素、心理因素以及社會因素等層面。銀髮族會因為自我管理、
自我補償與自我形象的維持等感性動機而採用新科技產品（正面直接動機），但也會受到對科技產品
的負面觀感（感性動機）等負面直接動機而影響其採納行為，在採納過程中會受到使用科技產品困難
的影響，而改變對於新科技產品的採納行為。經由對銀髮族創新採納行為的探討與了解，本研究將可
建立銀髮族居家照護服務採納模式，進而評估其使用者接受度與可行性。 
綜合上述，本研究認為銀髮族在考量採納創新科技產品時，除了考慮產品與服務特性（利益）、
個人特質以及環境特性（如家庭與次文化）等理性因素外，銀髮族同時也會受到情感因素的影響，包
含正面直接動機(如自我管理、自我補償與自我形象的維持)與負面直接動機（對科技產品的負面觀感）
兩部分，而在採納過程中，銀髮族可能會受到生理機能退化所產生的科技使用困難等科技產品使用條
件而影響其採納行為。 
 
銀髮使用者特質相關文獻之彙整與評述 
一般人對於銀髮族的印象，總是認為銀髮族是不願意接受創新科技產品與服務的族群，然而有部
分研究顯示，銀髮族在採納創新科技產品與服務時，會受到不同因素的影響，其中銀髮族的個人特質
即扮演著相當重要的角色，銀髮族由於生長的背景環境與年輕族群不同，並且受到生理機能退化、社
會角色轉變以及經濟條件改變等因素影響，在考量採納創新科技產品時的重點也與年輕族群不同。 
在銀髮族的個人特質中，年齡一直是大多數研究討論的重點，如 Gilly 與 Zeithaml（1985）曾經以
65 歲做為年齡的分水嶺，探討銀髮族與非銀髮族在消費科技的採納行為，結果發現 65 歲以上的銀髮
族較不願意接受大多數的創新科技產品；相反的，Moschis et al.（1991）卻在研究中發現年齡在 55 歲
以上的銀髮族，對於必要的創新科技產品有著極高的接受度。而在年齡對創新科技產品的態度上，根
據 Balkite（1998）的研究顯示，銀髮族對科技產品的情感或意見會有誇大的傾向，但在實際的使用行
為則會與年輕族群有明顯差異；Moschis（1994）則認為年齡對科技產品在態度上並沒有明顯差異，男
性比女性對科技產品有較正面的態度，不同居住區域在科技產品的態度上具有差異，但收入高低對科
 6 
另外根據Lunsford與Burnett (1992)的研究顯示，銀髮族會受到產品特性、個人特質及環境的影響，
對於創新科技產品主要有五種障礙，包含產品使用的不相容、缺乏認知價值、自我形象、文化價值的
持續性以及生理、經濟、功能的知覺風險等。 
其中產品使用的不相容，指創新科技產品的使用與銀髮族本身的生理能力不能配合（不相容），
Schewe (1988)在研究中提到，隨著年齡的增長，一些生理機能，如視力、觸覺敏感度以及肌肉強度都
會逐漸減低，因此一些創新產品（尤其是科技產品）會讓銀髮族在使用上產生挫折感，進而拒絕使用，
此部分概念與Venkatesh (2000)所提出的知覺行為控制概念相似，也與Davis(1989)所提出的知覺易用性
概念相近；缺乏認知價值，指銀髮族對於創新科技產品無法感受到其利益；自我形象，指銀髮族只會
購買產品的品牌形象與自己本身形象相符合的產品；文化價值的持續性，指銀髮族的行為經由時間與
生活經驗所形成，如戰亂、經濟不景氣等，產生出節儉、工作努力以及忠誠的價值觀，這些價值觀會
一直持續影響銀髮族的消費行為；最後是身體、經濟、功能的知覺風險，知覺風險會影響創新產品的
評估，其中身體風險、經濟風險以及功能風險影響最大。身體風險指產品可能會對身體造成的傷害；
經濟風險是指產品本身可能會對財務上的傷害，所以銀髮族會保留消費，盡量購買低價可負擔的商品；
功能風險則是指銀髮族擔心產品的操作結果與自己的預期有相當的差異，所以當創新科技產品操作越
複雜時，則銀髮族的功能風險越高。 
綜合上述，銀髮族對於創新科技產品的認知，大都集中在創新科技產品的知覺利益與價值、知覺
行為控制及知覺風險上，銀髮族可能會因為感受到創新科技產品的價值與利益而採納，但也可能會因
為知覺到在操作使用創新科技產品的過程中，所產生的使用障礙與可能存在的風險而拒絕採納，因此
銀髮族創新認知在銀髮族採納創新科技產品的考量因素上，具有決定性的影響。 
基於上述，本研究將計畫目的與文獻內容相連結，以形成本研究之研究雛型，如圖一所示；本研
究意圖透過不同觀點（理性與感性）探討銀髮族採納居家照護服務的考量因素，並強調銀髮族對創新
服務的認知在採納過程中的影響，最後從採納的整體過程進行探討，以瞭解銀髮族的實際採納行為。 
 8 
採納行為
生理老化
視力方面
聽力方面
行動方面
記憶方面
心理老化
自我效能
老年心境
轉變
新科技產品
產品複雜
度
產品特性
採納方式
子女協助
同儕影響
社會老化
家庭互動
個人能力
使用行為
使用頻率
使用功能
使用用途
 
圖二 本研究架構 
研究設計 
本研究方法採用便利抽樣，在符合研究對象界定範圍下，本研究問卷發放主要透過老人機構及居
家附近的銀髮族進行調查與分析，抽樣地點以北部地區為主，問卷共發放 300 份，回收 250 份，回收
 10 
-19.64 
1.10*** 
2.59*** 
0.09** 
新科技產品的功能。 
    銀髮族在心理老化對於採納新科技產品的方式結果成立(標準化迴歸係數=-2.42***)，表示銀髮族
在心理層面的轉變，進而增加採納新科技產品的意願；此外在銀髮族心理層面對於使用新科技產品行
為的假設獲得成立(標準化迴歸係數=0.09***)，表示銀髮族在心理層面的改變，而增加使用新科技產品
的意願。此外，自我效能經由子女協助及同儕影響，使銀髮族對於新科技產品的使用頻率及使用用途
有顯著的增加。至於在使用功能的部份，銀髮族會經由自我效能及老年心境轉變進而影響使用新科技
產品的機會。 
    銀髮族在社會老化對於採納新科技產品方式的假設結果成立(標準化迴歸係數=2.59***)，表示銀髮
族對於家庭及個人能力的不同，會影響採納新科技產品的意願。然而，家庭互動經由子女協助則會增
加銀髮族採納新科技產品；而個人能力的部份，則會透過同儕影響，而增加銀髮族採納新科技產品的
機率及增加銀髮族使用新科技產品的頻率、用途及功能。 
    新科技產品對於銀髮族採納新科技產品的方式結果不成立，但經由研究分析後發現，在產品複雜
度的部份，透過同儕影響，會增加銀髮族採納新科技產品的機率及增加銀髮族的使用頻率。在產品特
性的部份，經由使用頻率、使用用途及使用功能，會增加銀髮族的使用新科技產品行為。 
銀髮族在使用行為對於銀髮族的採納方式的假設中獲得成立(標準化迴歸係數=1.10***)，表示銀髮
族在使用新科技產品的行為中，對於是否願意採納新科技產品有著很大的影響。在使用功能的部份，
銀髮族會受到同儕之間彼此影響，進而增加採納新科技產品的機會。 
生理老化
社會老化
心理老化
新科技
產品
使用行為
採納方式
 
圖四 本研究線性模式架構圖 
 
-0.02 
0.07 
2.78 
0.12 
-2.42*** 
 12 
the barriers to adoption. Journal of Consumer Marketing, 9, 53-63. 
20. Mathur, A. (1999). Adoption of technological innovations by the elderly: A consumer socialization 
perspective. Journal of Marketing Management, 9, 21-35. 
21. Melenhorst, A., Rogers, W. A., and Bouwhuis, D. G., 2006. Older adults’ motivated choice for 
technological innovation: Evidence for benefit-driven selectivity, Psychology and Aging, 21, 190-195. 
22. Moschis, G. P. (1994). Marketing Strategies for the Mature Market. Westport, CT: Quorum Books. 
23. Moschis, G. P. (1992b). Marketing to older consumers. Westport CT: Quorum Books. 
24. Moschis, G. P., et al. (1991). Intergenerational Consumer Perceptions: Changing Needs in a Changing 
Society. Atlanta: Georgia State University, Center for Mature Consumer Studies. 
25. Moore, G. C. and Benbasat, I. (1991). Development of an Instrument to Measure the Perceptions of 
Adopting an Information Technology Innovation. Information Systems Research, 2, 3, 192-222. 
26. Morris, M. G., and Venkatesh, V. (2000). Age differences in technology adoption decisions: Implications 
for a changing work force. Personnel Psychology, 53, 375-403. 
27. Prisuta, R., and Kriner, R. (1985). Communications technology and older persons: Attitudes, uses and 
needs. Paper presented at the International Communications Association Conference, Honolulu, May, 
28-32. 
28. Rogers, E. M. (1983). Diffusion of Innovations, 3rd, New York Free Press. 
29. Rogers, W. A., Cabrera, E. F., Walker, N., Gilbert, D.K., and Fisk, A. D. (1996). A survey of automatic 
teller machine usage across the adult life span. Human Factors, 38(1), 156-166. 
30. Schewe, C. D. (1988). Marketing to our aging population: Responding to physiological changes. Journal 
of Consumer Marketing, 6, 5-14. 
31. Tornatzky, L. G. and Klein, K. J. (1982). Innovation Characteristics and Innovation 
Adoption-Implementation: A Meta-Analysis of Findings. IEEE Transactions on Engineering 
Management, 29, 1, 28-45. 
32. Yankelovich, D. (1987). The Mature Americans. New York: Daniel Yankelovich Group, Inc. 
33. Zeithaml V. A., & Gilly M. C. (1987). Characteristics affecting the acceptance of retailing technologies: 
A comparison of elderly and nonelderly consumers. Journal of Retailing, 63, 49-68. 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                  2011 年  7 月  21 日 
報告人姓名 王熙哲 所屬系所 龍華科技大學 企業管理系 
   時間 
會議地點 
（100/7/10～100/7/12） 
 中國大連 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2011 亞太商業創新與科技管理國際研討會 
 (英文) The 2011 Summer International Conference on Asia Pacific Business Innovation 
& Technology Management 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 以社會因素探討銀髮族購買金融商品之研究 
 (英文) The Study on the Social Factors Influencing the Purchasing Intention for 
Financial Commodities: Apply to Elderly People. 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
7/10 08:00-10:50 首先本人完成研討會報到、註冊手續並領取大會手冊。接著參加會議開幕
儀式和聆聽大會之年度報告。 
       13:10-15:00 本人參與 Customer Management 以及 Marketing 研討議題，聽取國際學者
之論文發表，並與各國的學者進行學術交流。 
       15:00-16:20 本人參與下午的 Innovation 與 Tourism 研討議題，聽取國際學者之論文發
表，並與來自各國的學者進行交流。 
7/11 13:10-15:00 本人參與 Business Management 研討議題，聽取國際學者之論文發表，並
與各國的學者進行學術交流。 
       15:00-16:20  本人參與下午的 Innovation 與 Tourism 研討議題，聽取國際學者之論文發
表，並與來自各國的學者進行交流。 
7/12 10:50-12:10 本人針對本研究論文進行口頭報告，時間為 10：50 於 Finance & Operation 
Management– Session T2-B 場次，並在此場次擔任 Session Chair，與國際學
者進行互動交流，進一步發現相關研究之未來趨勢與機會，作為後續研究
通，因此如何聽懂別人的英語對本人而言，將成為一項挑戰 
 
For traditional generation, they are relatively 
conservative and bound by tradition; however, their 
thinking and their attitude toward new ideas are 
changing with the times. Baby boomers are not 
likely to give away all their property to their sons 
and daughters just like traditional generation does. 
They know how to plan their retiring life and future, 
and they invest part of their property on financial 
commodities.  
Currently, financial commodities are designed 
for younger generation like office ladies, students, 
singles and white-collar workers. They are not 
aimed at elderly population, so traditional 
generation has less approach to financial 
commodities. It is time to introduce more ideas of 
financial commodities so as to attract elderly 
population. With baby boomers step into elderly 
population, there will be opportunities for business. 
When the time comes, the elderly-population-to-be 
is not the same as that of today. It will be totally 
different from today regarding products design, 
selling pattern, consumer demand, requesting and 
standard as well as planning in the future.  How to 
grasp the features and demands of different 
generations could be the key to success.  
According to the tendencies mentioned above, 
this study does researches on psychological 
dimension influencing the purchasing Intention of 
elderly population for financial Commodities. 
Furthermore, this study also focuses on social 
dimension influencing decision making process. All 
of this, in turn, would offer useful information for 
public and private sectors interested in elderly 
population market so as to satisfy the demand from 
elderly population.    
B. Purpose of Study 
According to background and motivation of 
the study prior to this section, the purpose of this 
study focuses on social dimension. The study 
researches factors of social dimension influencing 
elderly population in purchasing intention. We hope 
the results would be beneficial to any persons or 
organizations that concerns on the issue. 
(1) To explore how the factors on social dimension 
like generation difference and reference groups 
influence elderly population’s purchasing intention 
for financial commodities.  
(2) To provide useful information for enterprises 
and financial institutions so as to offer better 
products and services to elderly population. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
A. Generation Difference 
According to the study ‘A Comparative Study of 
Consumer Finance Orientation of Three 
Generations in Taiwan’ (Chen Chi-mimg, 2003), it 
indicates that people from younger generation are 
not god at managing finance. They don’t use 
financial management tools as often as other 
generations. In addition, they don’t have much 
money, so the proportion of purchasing financial 
commodities is lower than other generations, too. 
People from mid-aged generation have certain 
economic basis. They are in the prime of life, so 
they manage finance positively. They also collect 
information on investment or attend relevant 
seminars. They would try any financial 
management and they are active and adventurous 
investors. Therefore, they are highly-intentioned 
purchases for financial commodities. As to people 
from elder generation, they experienced the social 
change, from poor to rich, so they are used to frugal. 
They are careful, conservative when it comes to 
investment and their purchasing intention for 
financial commodities is low. 
     The study above shows generation difference 
does affect consuming behaviors; therefore, this 
study recognizes it and proposes hypotheses as 
following:   
Hypothesis 1：Generation difference affects people’s 
purchasing intention for financial commodities. 
Hypothesis 1-1: Generation difference of 
Investment ideas on affects people’s purchasing 
intention for financial commodities. 
Hypothesis 1-2: Baby boomer generation’s 
purchasing intention for financial commodities is 
higher than that of traditional generation. 
B. Reference Groups 
People from mid-aged generation purchase 
commodities for fashion, for emphasizing their 
status. That is, such motivations will be replaced by 
reference groups as they grow older. Consumers 
over sixty-one-year-old do not often collect 
information before purchase as that of mid-aged 
The research acknowledges support from the National Science Council 
(NSC) via grant NSC 99-2221-E-262-007 
Comparing independent sample t test for 
statistical analysis with different age group of 
elderly population- baby boomer generation and 
traditional generation- and purchasing intention. All 
of this, in turn, would explore if there is difference 
between baby boomer generation and traditional 
generation. The result is shown as in (Appendix 3).  
    According to above mention and (Appendix 3), 
this study assumes that different age group in 
elderly population affects their purchasing intention. 
Therefore, hypothesis 3 is true. The factors of 
different age group in elderly population 
influencing purchasing intention are mentioned as 
below:  
  For「baby boomer generation」dimension 
 Baby boomers value financial management. They 
have certain economic basis and invest actively. 
They tend to collect information on investment 
events in their free time. They invest after they get 
relative information. They are willing to try new 
investment tools and financial commodities. For 
those baby boomers in elderly population, they 
adopt positive attitude when purchasing financial 
commodities. They believe that money makes 
money, and they would risk investing. They have 
highly intention to purchase financial commodities.  
  For「traditional generation」dimension 
People in traditional generation are frugal. Though 
they have stabile incomes, they are not adventurous 
investors for fear of losing all their property. They 
tend to preserve their seed capital rather than risk. 
For traditional generation in elderly population, 
they are conservative about financial management. 
Their purchasing intention for financial 
commodities is positive. They don not reject 
investment, but they would not risk investing all of 
their property in financial market. As a result, their 
purchasing intention is lower that that of baby 
boomers. This study confirms that traditional 
generation has lower purchasing intention.  
 For relation between baby boomer generation and 
traditional generation  
As the discussion above, there are different values in different 
age group of elderly population. T-test value has reached level 
of significance. Significance probability value ＜0.05. This 
indicates that baby boomers in elderly population have higher 
purchasing intention than that of traditional generation in 
elderly population. This study assumes that both baby boomer 
generation and traditional generation are willing to purchase 
financial commodities. The difference is that baby boomer 
generation adopts positive attitude towards financial 
management. They tend to attend all kinds of financial events 
and have their own philosophy on investment. Therefore, baby 
boomer generation has higher purchasing intention than 
traditional generation. 
 Relation between Reference groups and purchasing 
intention 
After analyze (reference groups and purchasing 
intention), the result is shown as in (Appendix 4). 
The factor word-of-mouth in「reference groups」
shows (F value=7.498,  value＜0.000); the factor 
traditional generation shows (F value =6.868, 
 value＜0.000). The two factors are significance. 
According to (Appendix 4), this study confirms 
that reference groups affect elderly population’s 
purchasing intention. Therefore, hypothesis 4 is true. 
The factors of reference groups influencing elderly 
population’s purchasing intention are mentioned as 
below: 
 For「word-of-mouth」dimension 
Word-of mouth dimension in reference groups plays 
a positive role in consuming behaviors of elderly 
population. It also influences elderly population’s 
decision making for short-term and long-term 
purchasing intention. Different groups are affected 
by different ways, and this reflects indirectly on 
consumers’ purchase. The motivation of purchasing 
intention is different. Elderly population is easily 
affected by word-of-mouth. Their purchasing 
intention would be affected by the information 
delivered from social groups, friends and family. 
They would be affected by consuming topics. 
Therefore, this study confirms that word-of-mouth 
would increase purchasing intention. 
  For「opinion leaders」dimension  
The opinion leaders in reference groups may not 
intentionally take the position, but they affect their 
friends, family and neighbors significantly. They 
have their own ways to affect others’ attitudes, 
behaviors. People’s purchasing behaviors are 
influenced by them. Elderly population would not 
invest after getting related information. They would 
consult opinions from friends, family and social 
groups before invest. They believe 
recommendations from professional institutions and 
steady incomes, but they are careful, 
passive and conservative on financial 
management. They are not daring to try for 
fear of losing all the property they gain the 
whole life. However, conservative as they 
are, they do not reject to purchase financial 
commodities. They seldom deposit they 
money in the post office or invest in market. 
However, suggestions from family 
members they trust or professional 
financial advisors would increase their 
purchasing intention.   
(3) The difference between baby boomer generation and 
traditional generation could be verified by the discussion 
above, and it is the same as the literature quoting in this 
study. When it comes to purchase financial commodities, 
baby boomers are active and attend all kinds of financial 
management events. They know a lot of investment 
information and tend to take a chance. On the other hand, 
people in traditional generation are rather passive. They 
don’t get access to financial management information. They 
have the intention to purchase when someone they trust 
offers tips. Consumers in the type are conservative. 
However, both baby boomer generation and traditional 
generation have purchasing intention; the difference is that 
baby boomers are much active. They have higher 
purchasing intention than traditional generation. 
 Reference groups affect elderly population’s 
purchasing intention significantly 
According to this study, reference groups 
significantly affect elderly population’s purchasing 
intention for financial commodities. The result is 
the same as the literature quoting in this study: 
purchasing intention deceases when age increases, 
and purchasing intention is influenced by different 
reference groups. People above 61-year-old are less 
care about information collecting and involvement 
before purchasing than that of other mid-aged 
group.  
(1) The word-of-mouth type: To pursue fashion 
and emphasize status, consumers refer 
opinions from groups around them. They 
are gradually affected by reference groups. 
Word-of-mouth plays an important role and 
it influences elderly population’s 
purchasing intention. Elderly population is 
affected differently in different groups, and 
it reflects indirectly on purchasing 
intention and behavior. Consumers of this 
type are easily affects by word-of-mouth 
from family, friends and social groups, and 
it influences their purchasing intention a 
lot.   
(2) The opinion leader type: Consumers in the 
type is not easily affected than that of the 
word-of-mouth type. However, when it 
comes to select commodities, they tend to 
collect information before purchasing. 
Information from specific groups, 
influential persons, and professional 
institutions would affect their decision 
making. For this type of consumers, they 
would not adopt all the information from 
word-of-mouth. They collect information 
first, and then refer consult opinions and 
materials from social groups, friends and 
professional institutions before engaging 
investment and purchase commodities. 
B. Proposals of the Study 
 Financial institutions should offer different investment 
projects for different generations, and better understand 
generation difference so as to meet consumers’ need. 
 Financial institutions should develop specific 
commodities and projects that aim at elderly 
population. Financial institutions should stand in 
elderly population’s shoes to design products and 
financial commodities. 
 For raising the purchasing intention for financial 
commodities of elderly population, financial 
institutions should offer better quality services and 
attract consumers’ interests and satisfy their demand. 
 Seminars and forum should be held regularly for 
elderly population. By reacting, learning and sharing 
with each other, elderly population could get more 
information on financial commodities, market news 
and economic indicators. This helps elderly population 
invest and purchase. The more useful information they 
get, they don’t need to dependent on friends and 
financial advisors when purchasing financial 
commodities. 
C. Limitations of the Study 
      Limitations and problems we encounter 
when conducting this study are as below: 
 Owing to the limitation of time, labor and cost, the 
study does not conduct questionnaire all over Taiwan 
but in New Taipei City only. 
 The questionnaires could not reflect what the seniors’ 
thoughts are. 
  
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王熙哲 計畫編號：99-2221-E-262-007- 
計畫名稱：以創新科技採納之行銷觀點探討銀髮族服務作業系統設計(III)：服務實證與應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
