2However, the joint ownership or partnership in PPP complicates the project
administration, particularly in project procurement and contract management. Here,
the “developers”refer to the major shareholding firms, the owners, of a PPP firm.
The fact that government may bail out a distressed project and renegotiate with the
developer in PPP causes serious opportunism problems in project administration:
 The first problem is the opportunistic bidding behavior during project
procurement. In this paper, opportunistic bidding behavior in PPP refers to that
the bidders, in their proposals, intentionally understate possible risks involved or
overstate the project profitability in order to outperform other bidders. In their
pilot study, Ho and Liu (2004) developed a game theoretic Claims Decision
Model (CDM) for analyzing the behavioral dynamics of builders and owners in
construction claims and the implications on opportunistic bidding. Their model
shows that if a builder can easily make an effective construction claim, the
builder will have incentives to bid opportunistically. In PPP, a successful request
for renegotiation is analogous to an effective claim. In other words, if the request
for renegotiation is always granted, the developers would then have incentives to
bid optimistically to win the project. The reason that an overly optimistic
proposal can have a higher chance of winning is because some crucial and
developer-specific information regarding the project is difficult to be verified by
government and, as a result, can be untruthfully revealed in the development
proposal. That is, some important information is asymmetric to government. For
example, the developer’s cost and profit structures, theproject’s commercial and 
technical risk, and the risk impacts may not be fully revealed in, or consistent
with, the developer’s bid proposal. Because of the information asymmetry in
PPP, opportunistic bidding may succeed during procurement. Therefore, if the
developers have incentives to bid opportunistically due to the ex ante expectation
of ex post renegotiation, the effectiveness of project procurement and contract
management will be influenced significantly. Since this logic between
government rescue and project administration effectiveness is not
straightforward, the importance of financial renegotiation problem is
underemphasized.
 The second opportunism problem is the Principal-Agent problem, where the
Principal is played by government and the Agent is played by the developers.
This problem is also regarded as Moral Hazard problem, which happens only
4and how government rescues a distressed project and what impacts government’s
rescue behavior has on the project procurement and management.
This paper presents a Game theoretic model to analyze government’s procurement
and management policies from the perspective of renegotiation. The results may
provide theoretic foundations and guidelines for examining the effectiveness of
government’s procurement and management policies in PPP. This paper begins with
a brief introduction of the government rescue problems and the research methodology
used in this study. Then I will present an analytical model based on game theory and
solve for the game equilibrium solutions. Next I will formally state and prove the
propositions and corollaries obtained from the model. Followings are rules, governing
principles, and policies implications for PPP derived from the propositions and
corollaries.
RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
The methodology adopted for theoretical study is game theory. Game theory can be
defined as “the study of mathematical models of conflict and cooperation between 
intelligent rational decision-makers” (Myerson, 1991). Therefore, it is critical that
readers avoid making any negative ethical implications on “playing games.” Among 
economic theories, game theory has been successfully applied to many important
issues, such as negotiations, finance, and imperfect markets. In PPP projects, conflicts
among project developer and government are very common, particularly in an adverse
situation, and therefore, game theory is a natural tool for analyzing the problem.
Game theory has been adopted by Ho and Liu (2004) to analyze the behavioral
dynamics of construction claims. Ho (2005) also applied game theory to developing a
model to evaluate the effectiveness of rewarding bid compensation in project
procurement. The following sections describe the basic concepts of game theory that
are closely related to the government rescue and renegotiation.
Types of Games
There are two basic types of games: static games and dynamic games, in terms of the
timing of decision making. In a static game, the players act simultaneously. Note that
6market entry game is (enter, no price war), a strategically stable solution that does not
rely on the player to carry out an incredible threat. Note that this simplified market
entry game did not consider that there might be other new companies trying to enter if
the old company did not maintain certain reputation regarding the credibility of threat.
The game in Fig. 1 is caled a “dynamic game of complete information.” A dynamic 
game can be solved by maximizing each player’s payoff backward recursively along
the game tree (Gibbons, 1992). We shall apply this technique in solving the
government renegotiation game in PPP.
FINANCIAL RENEGOTIATION GAME AND EQUILIBRIA: THE
MODEL
As argued in the Introduction, the behavioral dynamics of the renegotiation or
government rescue plays a central role in PPP administration when information
asymmetry exists. Here, game theory is applied to analyze when government will
renegotiate with the developer and the impacts of such renegotiation on the project.
While this study is motivated by some real world cases from various countries and the
author’s personal consulting experiences, the goal of this model is to provide a
framework that is not restricted to particular environment. In other words, the model
is expected to consider various environments characterized by the parameters of the
model.
Model Setup
The game theoretic framework for analyzing a PPP investment shown in Fig. 2 is a
dynamic game expressed in an extensive form.
Suppose a PPP contract does not specify any government rescue or subsidies in
the face of financial crisis. Neither does the law prohibit government from bailing out
the PPP project by providing debt guarantee or extending the concession period.
Suppose also that government is not encouraged to rescue a project without
compelling and justifiable reasons. For example, cost overrun or operation losses
caused by inefficient management or normal business risk should not be justified for
government rescue, whereas adverse events caused by unexpected or unusual
8and retendered, and n, a function of B, is the political cost due to project retendering.
Generally, from either a financial or political perspective, it is costly for government
if a PPP project is bankrupted. Suppose that for a PPP project to proceed beyond
procurement stage, the project must have shown to provide the facilities or services
that can be justified economically. Then it is reasonable to assume that a bankrupted
PPP project should be regained by government and retendered to another new
developer, unless, in rare occasions, the marginal subsidy for improving project
financial viability is greater than the net benefits from the facility/service. Logically,
for government to “permanently”terminate a project without retendering, after
spending millions or billions of dollars, would only signify that the project was not
worth undertaking in the beginning and that a serious mistake was made by
government during the project procurement. Therefore, in this game, it is assumed
that retendering is desired by government if a project is going bankrupt.
Alternatively, as shown in Fig. 2, the developer can negotiate a subsidy starting
with the maximum amount $U, where the subsidy can be in various forms such as
debt guarantee or concession period extension. Typically, in a financial distress, the
bank will not provide extra capital needs without government debt guarantee or other
subsidies. Because the debt guarantee is a liability to government, but an asset to the
developer, debt guarantee is equivalent to a subsidy from government. Other forms of
subsidy may include the extension of concession period, more tax exemption for a
certain number of years, or extra loan or equity investment directly from government.
After the developer’s request for subsidy, the game proceeds, as shown in Fig. 2,
to its subgame: “negotiate subsidy” or “reject.” If the government rejects the 
developer’s request, the projectwill be bankrupted and retendered and the payoff for
both parties will be ))(,0( Bn . If government decides to negotiate a subsidy,
expressed by the rescuing subsidy ratio g, a ratio between 0 and 1, the payoff of the
developer and government will be (gU, )(gUm ), respectively, where m is the
political cost due to the rescuing subsidy to a private party. Note that although the
political cost, m, is also a function of budgeting spending, function m is different from
function n, because in the two functions the budget spending goes to different parties.
To rescue a PPP project and provide rescuing subsidy to the original PPP firm could
bring serious criticism toward government. If government lacks compelling reasons
for the subsidy, the criticism will cause significant political cost depending on the
10
final settlement for the subsidy will be a portion of U, gU, which satisfies
equation (2). The range of the renegotiation offer can be expressed as
)}()(,0:{ BnxmxxgU  (3)
From equation (3), we know that as long as n(B)-m(gU) 0, the rescue
equilibrium will be the solution of the game, where no one can be better off by
deviating from this equilibrium. Note that the condition for this equilibrium needs
to be refined due to other concerns, and we will discuss this further in other
sections.
2. Developer will“request subsidy” and government will“reject.”
If equation (2) is not satisfied, “reject” would be a preferable decision to
government, and the payoff matrix for both parties is (0, )(Bn ). Now turn to the
developer’s node: it seems that the payof of either “request subsidy” or “project
bankruptcy” is $0, and the developer is indifferent between the two actions. From
the game tree, it is not obvious which action the developer will choose. However,
if the developer recognizes the existence of the cost incurred in the process of
requesting subsidy, although it may be relatively small compared to other
variables in the game tree, the developer should choose “project bankruptcy,” 
instead of requesting subsidy. From this perspective, although the cost of
requesting subsidy is suppressed in the game tree for clarity, the cost of requesting
subsidy should be recognized whenever there is a tie between “request subsidy” 
and “project bankruptcy.” To summarize, if the developer knows government will
“reject” the subsidy request, the developer will choose “project bankruptcy,” 
instead of “request subsidy” in the first place, and this is exactly the third possible
equilibrium, “project bankruptcy.” Thus, the second equilibrium solution cannot
exist.
3. Developer chooses“project bankruptcy.”
Here, since the developer knows that government wil choose to “reject” the 
subsidy request, the developer will choose project bankruptcy in the first place.
We shal term this equilibrium the “no rescue” equilibrium.As argued above, the
developer will choose project bankruptcy if and only if it is optimal for
government to “reject” the subsidy request. Therefore, the condition of this Nash
equilibrium would be
m(gU) n(B) (4)
12
the higher the political cost should be. As a result, the political cost of subsidy should
be a strictly increasing function of the amount of subsidy, gU. A strictly increasing
function is defined here by: xx  : )()( xfxf  ; i.e., for all xx  , it is true that
)()( xfxf  . In equation (6), the political cost is further broken down into two
elements, namely, )(gU and )(gUs . )(gU , as illustrated in Fig. 3, is an
increasing function of gU, representing the political cost caused by budget
overspending in subsidy, and is considered the“basic”political cost. In addition to the
basic political cost, it is argued that for subsidy exceeding certain justifiable amount,
further political cost, )(gUs , would incur so as to reflect a more serious resource
misallocation. In the model, J is termedthe “justifiable subsidy,” which is considered
by the public an eligible claim for subsidy. Alternatively, J can be measured by
imagining that if the request goes to court, what amount of “claim” by the developer
the court will grant. For example, usually the damages due to force majeur might be
considered justifiable. If the subsidy is less than the justifiable claim, government will
not be blamed for oversubsidization, and therefore, )(gUs will be considered zero
when gUJ. However, when the subsidy is greater than J, government will be
criticized for oversubsidization, or be accused of or suspected of corruption, and will
suffer further political cost, )(gUs , in addition to the basic political cost, )(gU .
Figure 3 also illustrates the function of the political cost of oversubsidization,
)(gUs . It is worth noting that the shapes of the functions in Fig. 3 are for illustration
purpose. The functions need not to be continuous or convex. The only requirement is
that these functions are strictly increasing. Figure 4 shows the function )(gUm
obtained by combing the curves in Fig. 3 as defined in equation (6).
Political Cost of Retendering a Project
To analyze the adverse conditions that place a PPP project on the edge of bankruptcy,
we need some concepts of the bankruptcy mechanism. A very common bankruptcy
condition in debt indenture is the inability of the borrower to meet the repayment
schedule. In PPP, the lending bank will also impose certain conditions to trigger
bankruptcy and protect the loan should adverse events happen. For example, the
lenders could specify the upper limit of cost overrun during the project development
or construction. According to financial theory, rational lenders will prevent the net
14
Substitute equation (7) into (8), and then equation (8) can be rewritten as
)()(   GGn (9)
Figure 5 shows functions n(G) and n( G ), defined by equation (9), where given
is fixed, the variable of horizontal axis will be G. Thus function n( G ) is depicted
differently from n(G), as shown in Fig. 5, by shifting the original n(G) to the left by.
Mathematical Characteristics of the Parameters in PPP
Characteristic 1. As argued previously, by the definition of G, if government
intends to rescue a project, the subsidy to the project must be at least equal to G,
i.e., GgU  .
Characteristic 2. Whereas the developer replacing opportunity cost is always
positive and significant, i.e., 0 , in the following analysis, we shall make a
weaker assumption thatis non-negative.
Characteristic 3. Given equation (6) and that and s are strictly increasing
functions, it is straightforward that )()( xxm  is true for all ),(  Jx ,
formally denoted as ),(  Jx : )()( xxm  , where )(xm and )(x are the
slope of functions m and , respectively.
Characteristic 4. Since not all losses due to financial viability change can be
justified for subsidy during renegotiation, the range of J can be modeled as
],0[ UJ (10)
The amount of justifiable subsidy depends on how the public may agree with the
subsidy considering the developer’s justifiable reasons. Alternatively, J may also
be quantitatively determined should the subsidy request be brought to court.
Characteristic 5. According to the NPV investment rule, we may define G by the
equality: G + tNPV = 0, meaning that G will revert the project NPV to zero. This
characteristic comes from the requirement that G should improve a project from
negative tNPV to zero NPV. Note that zero NPV indicates that the project has
normal profit and is worth continuing for developers.
Refined Nash Equilibrium
Previous sections conclude that equations (2) and (5) are the conditions for “rescue”
and“no rescue”equilibria, respectively; however, it is also noted that these conditions
16
Proposition is graphically illustrated in Fig. 6, where the renegotiation offer zone is
indicated.
Proposition 2:
If all assumptions in proposition 1 hold, given U, J,and functions m and n, the
equilibrium must be to“rescue”if GJ.
Proof: see Appendix I.
Proposition 2 is graphically illustrated in Fig. 7.
Corollaries
Note that the proofs of corollaries are also placed in Appendix I.
Corollary 1:
Suppose all assumptions in proposition 1 hold, given U, J,and functions m and n,
the equilibrium must be to“rescue”if JG and the renegotiation offer zone is
}:{  GxGxgU
Corollary 2:
Suppose all assumptions in proposition 1 hold. Given U,and functions m and n,
when there exists a S defined by )]([
1    SnmS and Sx : )()(  xnxm ,
the equilibrium must be to “rescue”if SG and the renegotiation offer zone is
)]}([:{ 1   GnmxGxgU .
Note: Corollary 2 is illustrated in Fig. 8.
Corollary 3:
Suppose all assumptions in proposition 1 hold. Given U, J,and functions m and n,
when there exists a“unique” S and SxJ  : )()(  xnxm , the equilibrium
must be“no rescue”if SG .
Note: Corollaries 3 is also illustrated by Fig. 8.
Corollary 4:
Suppose all assumptions in proposition 1 hold, the equilibrium must be to“rescue”if
it is always true that UJ  .
18
Remark:
This rule is directly from Corollaries 2 and 3 given that S is unique. According
to this rule, given all variables fixed but G, the probability of future renegotiation
can be calculated by the probability that G S , denoted by )
~
( SGP  .
Rule 2: Maximum Subsidy Justification Domination Rule
Given only U and functions m and n, the equilibrium will be to “rescue”if J=U.
In other words, when the subsidy can always be justified by its maximum amount,
U, the equilibrium will be dominated by“rescue.”
Remark:
Note that this rule is directly from Corollary 4. According to this rule, S
represents the likelihood that the equilibrium will be to negotiate and“rescue.”In
practice, if, due to information asymmetry, J could be manipulated so that J would
be large up to U, then the “rescue”equilibrium is guaranteed and expected and
problems of opportunism will occur.
Rule 3: S Determination Rule
Given function n, S will depend negatively on s, and positively onand J.
Remark:
This rule can be inferred from Corollaries 5 and 6. Furthermore, if s is small
enough to be ignored, then S will approach and the equilibrium will always
be to “rescue.”A direct inference from this rule is that in a more dictatorial
country government will be more inclined to rescue a distressed project,
justifiably or not, given that the project is still socially beneficial. Also, given
other variables fixed, = 0 will yield the smallest S , which will be J, and
functions m(x) and n(x) will collapse for all x JS   .
Rule 4: Renegotiation Offer Zone Rule
Given G, , and functions m and n, if the equilibrium is to “rescue,”the
renegotiation offer zone will be )]}([:{ 1   GnmxGxgU .
Remark:
This rule is directly from Proposition 1. This solution is considered a Pareto
optimal solution for both parties since both parties’payoffs will be improved
20
This rule is inferred from Corollaries 1 and 2. An important insight from this rule
is that the interval of the renegotiation offer zone cannot exceed. Note that the
larger the interval is, the more important the negotiation power is, as the room for
negotiation is larger. This means that the negotiation power is more important
when G is small. Such conclusion may contradict our intuition that a project
requiring more G may need more efforts to“negotiate.”In fact, when G is so large
such that SG , there is no room for negotiation except to accept that the
subsidy SGgU  .
GOVERNING PRINCIPLES AND POLICY IMPLICATIONS FOR
PROJECT PROCUREMENT AND MANAGEMENT
Governing principles and administration policy implications can be obtained from the
propositions, corollaries and rules derived from the model. Note that the proposed
model does not provide the approaches to quantifying the game parameters; instead,
this pilot study focuses on the characteristics of the game parameters/functions and
the relationship between these parameters. Particularly, the political cost functions m
and n may be the most difficult to be quantitatively determined in this paper. Such
tasks are beyond the scope of this paper. Fortunately, useful insights can still be
drawn without knowing the approaches to quantifying parameters. The focus of this
study will be on what strategies or policies can better handle and reduce the
renegotiation problem and enhance the administration in PPP. Suggested governing
principles and administration policies for PPP projects are discussed as follows.
Governing Principle 1: Be well prepared for renegotiation problems, as it is
impossible to rule out the possibility of renegotiation and the“rescue”equilibrium.
As shown in Fig. 10, practically, S will be greater than 0 as S cannot be 0
unless J = 0 and = 0. Thus, it is always possible that SG given that G is
uncertain; i.e., it is impossible to rule out the “rescue”equilibrium. As a result, the
government should be well prepared for the opportunism problems induced by the ex
22
5, strategies that increase s and reducecan reduce the interval of the offer zone.
Policies implied by this principle is the same as those implied by previous principle.
Since these policies are implied by two different governing principles, these policies
should deserve more attentions.
Governing Principle 4: During the renegotiation process, the government should try
to settle the rescuing subsidy at G, and spend more efforts on determining G
objectively and conveying such information to the developer, rather than on
negotiation skills.
Since the“rescue”equilibrium is a strictly dominant solution for project developer,
the government should try to settle the negotiation at G, the lower bound of the
renegotiation offer zone. Policy implications may include:
 Government could regulate the negotiated subsidy by the laws that explicitly
forbid a subsidy being greater than G. According to this policy, government
should spend more efforts on determining G objectively and conveying such
information to the project developer. For example, G can be assessed through the
survey toward major bankers in the market on the least required retendering
subsidy for a particular project. Therefore, government is suggested to build a
objective and transparent standard procedure for determining G.
Governing Principle 5: Government should make every effort on having more
information for determining a fair J which corresponds to the developer’s
responsibilities and allocated risks specified in the contract.
Holliday et al. (1991) argued that because of the scale and complexity of BOT
projects, such as the Channel Tunnel, very often they are developer-led, and it is
extremely difficult to identify a clear client-contractor relationship at the heart of the
project. The “developer-led” phenomenon implies the information asymmetry
problem and opportunism problem in PPP projects, where the developer may be more
capable of hiding information and may have incentives to behave opportunistically.
Another issue is that J is fair only when the allocation of risks and responsibilities is
appropriate. As Ho and Liu (2004) proved and Rubin et al. (1983) argued, harsh
contract will only encourage opportunistic behaviors. When the amount of J is
brought to court or special committee, the court or committee will consider not only
24
CONCLUSIONS
Too often, in PPP, many serious problems occur mainly because of bad
administration policies, which are made by either non-engineers who do not know
engineering or engineers who do not know management. When we, engineers, have
chances to participate in policy making, we should base our decisions on solid
economics ground as well as engineering discipline, instead of intuition based
superficial reasoning. This paper investigates how government and project developers
will behave in various renegotiation situations when a PPP project is in distress, and
what impacts government rescue has on procurement and management polices. The
purpose of this paper is to model renegotiation and then derive policy implications for
discouraging opportunistic behaviors in PPP by assuming that opportunistic behavior
is possible. Although the advance in public project procurement practice has reduced
the opportunities for opportunism, opportunism never cease to exist in the mind of
every rational and economic individual. As we have observed in many projects, the
exploitation of renegotiation possibility in a complex contract or project, such as that
in PPP, is a typical behavior of opportunism that poses many serious problems. The
model is expected to help government authorities and policy makers establish more
effective polices for PPP projects.
Note that, as in many Economics studies, some simplified assumptions in the
model setup and game parameter modeling are made in this research, so that useful
insights can be drawn from real life complex situations. These insights could provide
decision makers with useful concepts and directional principles, despite that the real
situation is more complex. The insights and qualitative implications of an economic
model are often more important than the exact solutions obtained in the model.
Furthermore, the proposed model can consider various project environments
characterized by the parameters of the model. Also note that the validity of this model
does not require government and the developer to explicitly “use”game theory;
instead, the only requirement is that all players are rational decision makers.
Two propositions and seven corollaries are derived and proved rigorously in the
proposed game model. Five rules are further deduced from these propositions and
26
)()( GmGn  . Then, since m is an increasing function, it must be true that
GGmmGnm   )]([)]([ 11  . Therefore, for all JG , the renegotiation offer
zone )]}([:{ 1   GnmxGxgU must exist and the equilibrium must be to
rescue. (End of Proof)
Proof of Corollary 1:
JG implies JG as 0 . According to Proposition 2, the equilibrium
must be to rescue and negotiate.
Furthermore, by definition of m and n in equations (6) and (8), we have
Jx : )()()( xnxxm  , i.e., Jx : xxnm  )]([1 . Therefore, if we let
xG  , since JG implies JG  , i.e., Jx , it must be true that the
upper limit of renegotiation offer equals    GxxnmGnm )]([)]([ 11 ,
and that the renegotiation offer zone is }:{  GxGxgU . (End of Proof)
Proof of Corollary 2:
Given that the existence of S implies Sx : )()(  xnxm , SG implies
the existence of gU , where SgUG  and )()(  gUngUm . So, according
to Proposition 1, SG , the equilibrium must be to rescue, and there must exist
GgU  so that )]}([:{ 1   GnmxGxgU ; i.e., the renegotiation offer zone
is )]}([:{ 1   GnmxGxgU . (End of Proof)
Proof of Corollary 3:
The uniqueness of S implies that Sx : )()(  xnxm . By Proposition 1, the
“rescue”solution will imply GgU  . When SG , GgU  implies SgU  ,
which further implies that )()(  gUngUm . Therefore, according to
Proposition 1, “rescue”cannot be the solution. So, the equilibrium must be to
reject the subsidy and“no rescue.”(End of Proof)
Proof of Corollary 4:
According to Characteristic 5, we have tNPVG  . From equation (1), we have
U = tt NPVNPV ,0 . Given that 0,0 tNPV , the two equalities above implies
28
)]([1  Gnm = )]([1 Gnm = G, which is the same as the lower limit of the offer.
Thus, when 0 , the equilibrium must be to rescue and negotiate at GgU  for
all JG . (End of Proof)
APPENDIX II: NOTATION
The following symbols are used in this paper:
B = the amount of budget overspending;
= the political cost function of budget overspending;
G = the least required retendering subsidy that can persuade the lending bank to
support a distressed project;
g = the negotiated rescuing subsidy ratio;
J = the justifiable subsidy;
m = the political cost function of rescuing a project;
1m = the inverse function of m;
n = the political cost function of retendering a project;
s= the political cost function of oversubsidization;
= the developer replacing opportunity cost; and
U = the present value of net financial viability change, and also the maximum
possible requested subsidy.
LIST OF FIGURES
Fig. 1. Simplified Market Entry Game
Fig. 2. Renegotiation Game’s Equilibrium Path
Fig. 3. Political Cost Function of Budgeting Overspending, )(gU , and
Political Cost Function of Oversubsidization, )(gUS
Fig. 4. Political Cost Function of Rescuing a Project, m(gU)
Fig. 5. Function )( Gn w.r.t. to G, given a Fixed
Fig. 6. Renegotiation Offer Zone in“Rescue”Equilibrium
Fig. 7. Illustration of Proposition 2
Fig. 8. Illustration of Corollaries 2 and 3
Fig. 9. Illustration of Corollary 5
Fig. 10. Illustration of Corollary 7
30
Fig. 2. Renegotiation Game’s Equilibrium Path
Govt
Developer
(0, -n(B) )
(0, -n(B) )
( gU, -m(gU) )
Project
Bankruptcy
Request
Subsidy: $U
Reject
Negotiate
Subsidy: $gU
32
Fig. 4. Political Cost Function of Rescuing a Project, m(gU)
)(gU
gU

0
)()()( gUgUgUm s 
J
m
34
Fig. 6. Renegotiation Offer Zone in“Rescue”Equilibrium
)( Gn
GgU ,
0
)(gUm
n
m
)]([1  GnmG
)( Gn
)]}([:{ 1   GnmxGxgU
36
Fig. 8. Illustration of Corollaries 2 and 3
GgU ,
0
)(gUm
n
m
J
“Rescue”equilibrium
if SG
S
“No rescue”
if SG
)( Gn
38
Fig. 10. Illustration of Corollary 7
GgU ,
0
n
m
J
)( Gn
)(gUm
“Rescue”with G
if JG “No rescue”if JG
40
4. SELF-EVALUATION OF RESEARCH RESULTS (計畫成果自評)
This research followed the schedule and yielded very good results. First, there are
two conference papers presented in Seoul, Korea due to this research. Second, there
is one international journal paper, entitled“Model for Financial Renegotiation in
Public-Private-Partnership Projects and its Policy Implications: Game Theoretic
View”published on July 2006 in ASCE Journal of Construction Engineering and
Management due to this research.
2一、參加會議經過
本（2005）年第 1屆營建工程與管理國際研討會(ICCEM 2005)，係於 2005年
10月 16日至 10月 19日在 Seoul, Korea舉行，本次會議主辦單位為 Korea Institute
of Construction Engineering and Management，會議的主要議題為“Globalization and
Collaboration in Construction”。
本次研討會吸引了來自世界各地工程及學術界多人與會，每天會議從上午九
點三十分開始安排到下午六點左右，每天分四至五個時段進行論文發表，每一時
段同時有不同的主題，本次會議論文發表內容和主題則包括了數個不同類別主題。
二、與會心得
本年度投稿論文經過審查通過在會議中發表之論文共有近 200 篇，全文收錄
於大會發行之論文集光碟，本人非常榮幸能夠參與本屆 ICCEM研討會議，本人共
發表三篇，其中兩篇為本研究成果，第一篇為“Model for Government Rescue Policies
in Public-Private Partnership Projects,”第二篇 “Model for Organizational Strategy in
International Construction Joint Ventures: Organizational Economics Perspective”。 本
次會議主題涵蓋了多項主題，但整體上仍以營建管理與資訊科技應用的相關研究
最多。整體而言，本次大會提供了各國豐富寶貴研究資料，與會人士亦積極參與、
交換研究心得，利用這樣的機會與其他學者交換研究的心得，比較與觀摩其它國
家相關領域的研究水準，對未來新的研究發現和改革均有甚大之助益。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
略
四、建議
會議進行相當順暢，並無特殊建議。
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
1. ICCEM 2005 Program一本
2. ICCEM 2005 論文集光碟片一張
六、附件: 發表文章之二
表 Y04
1. INTRODUCTION
Globalization has enabled the expansion of the
construction industry through combination of
cross-national construction firms and local
contractors [1]. As the scope of construction
becomes larger and larger, we see a tremendous
increase in the complexity of the industry, which
requires more advanced technology and larger
capital, setting higher criteria for the bidding
companies. Joint ventures have thus become the
main stream in the procurement of larger-scale
projects. As pointed out by Mohamed [2], the
number of ICJVs is growing rapidly, especially in
developing countries, where ICJVs are viewed as
the best instrument for meeting the competing
interests of national development and the
prevention of the domination of the economy by
foreign investors.
Evidences from literature show that the design
of an organization has critical impacts on the
performance of the organization. Brickly et al. [3]
argue that poor design of organizations may result
in losses to the firm and even business failure.
However, there exists no particular organizational
design or form that suits all organizations. From
the perspective of organizational economics, this
paper attempts to explore organizational forms that
can best improve the performance of ICJVs. In
this paper, two basic organizational forms are
defined for ICJVs, namely: separately managed
joint ventures (SMJ) and jointly managed joint
ventures (JMJ). In SMJ, a project is divided into
a few distinct tasks and each partner is fully
responsible, technically and/or financially, for her
assigned tasks and makes decisions directly
without the consent from other partners. Thus, in
SMJ, the chain of command lies within each
partner. On the other hand, in JMJ, not only does
the chain of command need to meet the specific
requirements from the primary participating parties
but also decisions are made and implemented
jointly.
This paper attempts to explain why there exist
different organizational forms in managing ICJVs,
analyze those variables in selecting ICJVs
organizational forms from the perspective of
organizational economics, and lastly propose a
theoretical model for ICJVs to select suitable
organizational forms. The proposed model is
expressed as a set of hypotheses and the
methodology of empirical test of the model will be
proposed for future work.
Section II gives a brief review of the literature,
summarizing the relevant studies and theories.
Section III provides an exposition of research
methodologies and procedures. Section IV
develops our model in terms of five hypotheses.
Lastly, conclusions are made.
2. LITERATURE REVIEW
This section examines issues concerning JVs
and ICJVs in the literature and review relevant
theories concerning the modeling of organizational
strategy of ICJVs.
2.1 International Construction Joint Ventures (I
CJVs)
Hennart [4] argues that Joint Ventures (JVs) have
been seen in achieving four main objectives：(1)
taking advantage of economies of scale and
diversifying risk; (2) overcoming entry barriers
into new markets; (3) pooling complementary bits
of knowledge; (4) allaying xenophobic reactions
when entering a foreign market.
As one of the instruments of strategic alliance
in the broad sense, ICJVs apply the concept of
business integration, use alliance as a means to
acquire new skills, create productivity, alleviate
risks, and through technical cooperation, operate in
the forms of joint development, or joint ventures,
but maintain each party’s independence at the 
same time [5].
2.2 Organization and Organizational Forms
According to Daft [6], ”organizations are social
entities that are goal-oriented; are designed as
deliberately structured and coordinated activity
systems, and are linked to the external
environment”.  Robbins [7] explains an
organization as a consciously coordinated entity,
with a relatively identifiable boundary, that
functions on a relatively continuous basis to
achieve a common goal or set of goals. Kast and
Rosenzweig [8] define an organization as a social
entity formed by a group of people, having a
common goal, that utilize knowledge and skills to
operate in a social environment to achieve their
goal through interdependence, integration, and
coordination.
2.3 Organizational Economics
Organization theorists often view organizations
from different perspectives, including
rational-contingency perspective, radical- Marxism,
and Transaction cost economics (TCE) [6]. TCE is
based on the following assumptions: people act by
independence principle; exchange of products and
services occurs in a free market; transaction costs
表 Y04
appropriate forms to improve performance.
4.1 Organizational Characteristics of ICJVs
Since ICJVs are usually on a single-project basis,
working as temporary organizations, it is necessary
to sustain flexibility among organizational
structures. Postmodern organizations are
characterized by small, appropriate, flexible
organizational structures and cross-system
cooperation. ICJVs often exhibit most
characteristics of such postmodern organizations.
This study defines two distinct organizational
forms observed in the practice of ICJVs: separate
management and joint management. The
differences between the two management forms
will be examined from the perspective of Webber’s 
[21] static principle and decision authority. Note
that we do not argue that an ICJV will be either
separately managed or jointly managed. In fact,
most ICJVs’management may be the combination
of the two, and we would like to treat separate
management and joint management as the
extremes of a spectrum of ICJV’s organizational
strategies.
4.1.1 Separately managed joint ventures
In this paper, Separately Managed Joint
Ventures (SMJ) is characterized by 1. each firm is
technically and financially responsible for their
assigned tasks, which are often negotiated during
bid preparation, and 2. during construction, each
firm makes most decisions related to the assigned
tasks without the consent of JV management team
or other partners. In separately managed joint
ventures (SMJ), the chain of command is mainly
lies independently within each participating firm.
Thus, in SMJ there is only one set of chain of
command for members from each firm. In terms
of coordination and communication, in SMJ the
needs for coordination are limited to higher levels
managers. As a result, the cost for coordination is
lower and the cultural conflicts in management are
fewer. Another advantage of SMJ is to efficiently
employ expertise and skills in each firm, saving
the time and cost of communication between
individuals from different firms, and improving the
organizational performance.
4.1.2 Jointly Managed Joint Ventures
Here, Jointly Managed Joint Ventures (JMJ) is
characterized by 1. all partners jointly share profits
and risks of the ICJV according to an agreed
proportion, although distinct tasks may still be
assigned to each firm, and 2. during construction,
JV management makes most decisions, which will
be followed by all partners.
In jointly managed joint ventures (JMJ), there
are two sets of chain of command, with the extra
one from the JV management. In terms of
coordination and communication, in JMJ the needs
for coordination are extended to all levels of a JV
organization. As a result, the cost for coordination
is much higher and the cultural conflicts in
management may be more frequent. One
advantage of JMJ is to more effectively monitor
and control the performance of other partners, and
learn from other partners.
4.2 Rationales of JVs and Resource-based
Organizational Factors
Kogut [22] proposes three notions of the
motivations of using joint ventures: first,
transaction costs are reduced by choosing JVs;
second, strategic cooperation can help improving
competitive ability or market ability; third, JVs can
facilitate the transfer and learning of certain
knowledge. We argue that Kogut’s rationales of
JVs can be integrated into a resource-based view,
and according these rationales, we may extract
organizational factors that best assure the
performance of ICJV. First, transaction costs are
closely related to the characteristics of a firm’s
resources, external or internal, such as uncertainty
and asset specificity. Second, strategic cooperation
behaviors for improving competitive ability will be
desired when a JV promotes better resource
integration and uniqueness, such as market power
or technology. Finally, the needs for the learning
of certain knowledge come from the firm’s needs
to internalize particular resource, i.e., some
proprietary knowledge, outside the firm.
Therefore, we may argue that the incentives for
JVs are mostly resources related, and that the
factors that best assure the performances of ICJV
can be formed from the perspective of resource
characteristics of each partner. Specifically, with
respect to each JV partner, the resource
characteristics can be categorized to, as shown in
Fig. 1, first, external resource factors, second,
internal resource factors, and 3. factors concerning
the interaction between partners. Note that the
interaction characteristics focus on the process of
exchange or integrate resources between partners.
4.3 Hypotheses Development
As argued in previous section, here we will
develop five hypotheses that model the selection of
ICJVs forms based on three basic resource
表 Y04
adapt to different organizational cultures of the all
partnering firms in a short period of time. As a
result, the degree of cultural difference plays an
important role on the selection of the form for
managing an ICJV. Characterized by separate
direction, instructions, and operation, SMJ can
reduce conflicts that arise from organizational
cultural differences. According, hypothesis four is
derived. Hypothesis Four: the bigger the cultural
difference, the more likely ICJVs will adopt SMJ,
and vice versa.
Hypothesis five is based on social exchange
theory. One basic assumption in transaction cost
view is that people are rational and self-interested,
and thus there is opportunism. Williamson [12]
defines opportunism as self-interest seeking with
guile, including lying and cheating. Thus, trust
cannot be a solution in Williamson’s world.
However, in social exchange viewpoint, Blau [18]
argues that reciprocity in the process of social
exchange gives rise to gratitude, responsibility, and
trust between the parties. Recently researchers
such as Gulati [24,25]and Singh [26] have applied
“trust”in the study of JVs in the broad sense.
Candace & Wiersema [27] also perceive trust as
reliability and predictability. Reliability is
important expectation of the partner in the alliance;
whereas predictability refers to the partnership,
integration of information, and consistence in the
cooperation. Therefore, according to social
exchange view, trust is a possibility or
characteristics that may exist in the interaction of
two firms.
In this paper, we take the view of social
exchange and recognize the existence of trust and
its effect. As a result, if the contracting firm
cannot have a high level of trust toward other
partners, the contracting company in ICJVs will be
anxious and doubtful about their alliances, and
thus JMJ will be a better form of ICJVs that
minimizes transaction costs. On the other hand,
SMJ will be a better choice if there is a high level
of trust, as SMJ will have the lowest management
costs such as monitoring, communication, and
coordination. Accordingly, hypothesis five is
obtained. Hypothesis Five: the higher the trust
level toward other partners, the more likely
contracting company in ICJVs will adopt SMJ, and
vice versa.
4.4 Hypothesized Model
Combining the hypotheses derived in previous
section, we construct a hypothesized model, as
shown in Fig. 1, for selecting the forms of an ICJV.
Figure 1 also serves as a variable relation structural
framework for empirical test using SEM. The
empirical test using SEM will be left in future
study.
5. CONCLUSIONS
In this study we have constructed a
hypothesized model for ICJVs’ organizational 
forms. In the model, we argue that a contracting
firm with higher extent of dependence on external
resources, more flexibility of the firm’s
procurement strategy, stronger motivation of
learning, smaller culture difference with other
partners, or lower level of trust toward other
partners, will lead to more preference toward JMJ,
and vice versa. In the future we will perform
empirical tests using SEM according to the
structural model in Fig. 1.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The work presented in the paper was supported
by the National Science Council of Taiwan, grant
NSC93-2211-E-002-059.
REFERENCES
[1]Sillars,D.N. & Kangari,R., ‘Predicting 
Organizational Success within a Project-Based
Joint Venture Aliance”, Journal of Construction
Engineering and Management,Vol.130(4) ,
pp.500-508, 2004.
[2]Mohamed, S.,”Performance in International
Construction Joint Ventures: Modeling
Perspective”, Journal of Construction Engineering
and Management,Vol.129(6), pp.619-626,2003.
[3]Brickley ,J.A., Smith,C.W. , Zimmerman,J.L.,
and Willett,J., Designing organizations to create
value : from structure to strategy, New
York :McGraw-Hill,2003.
[4]Hennart, J.F.,“A Transaction Costs Theory of
Equity Joint Ventures” , Strategic Management
Journal,Vol. 9(4),pp.361-374,1988.
[5]Zuckerman, H.S, Kaluzny, A. D., Montgomery,
R. L., Ford, L.,”Strategic Aliances in Health Care: 
The Chalenges of Cooperation”, Frontiers of
Health Services Management, Vol.7(3), pp.
3-23,1991.
[6]Daft, R.L., Organization theory and design, 7th,
Ohio: South-Western College Publishing, 2001.
[7]Robbins S.P., Essentials of organizational
