國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
   曲面平坦度之精密量測、貼合與貼合韌性經常面臨科技挑戰，尤其是精度
到 500nm 以下。本研究發展之「圓餅型壓電線性致動器」以及其後組成之神
經網路機器人即是針對此方向之需求，對於微機電整合之科技教育與生活應
用(如微針美容、血管探索等)皆可提升其技術層次。 
 
 
 
         Surface-fitting Compliance Control of 
          Neural-Networked Robots (I) 
 Ping-Ho Chen  
Department of Electrical Engineering, Tungnan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
phc@mail.tnu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract—This project entitled “Surface-fitting Compliance 
Control of Neural-Networked Robots (I)” focuses on 
developing a “disc-shaped piezo linear actuator” to play a role 
as the neuron in a neural-network robot devise in the first year. 
In the second year, mechanism of the neural-network robot will 
be built in terms of four disc-shaped piezo linear actuators with 
interlinks. In the third year, algorithm of surface-fitting 
compliance control will be developed, implemented and tested. 
Implementation of mechanism and driver are two main scopes 
of work in developing a disc-shaped piezo linear actuator. The 
former from the test shows that 1) resonance frequency of the 
actuator mechanism: 50 k Hz, 2) amplitude of resonance:181 
nm, 3) stroke of the linear actuator: 15mm, 4) maximum speed: 
0.904 mm/s. The latter employs a microchip and a linear 
controller to generate PWM and duty circle so as to change the 
direction and speed of the linear actuator.   
 
Keywords—Piezo, Linear actuator, Neural-Network, Robot, 
Compliance, Surface-fitting  
I.  INTRODUCTION 
A.  Piezoelectricity 
      Piezoelectricity is basically applied to sensing field 
and actuation field. Sensing field takes advantage of its 
positive piezo effect and actuation field the negative piezo 
effect. Fig. 1(a) shows the positive piezo effect that 
transforms the input stress T to the output strain S via Y and 
charge density D via d.  Fig.1(b) shows the negative piezo 
effect that transforms the input electric field E to the output 
stress S via eε.  
 
               (a)                   (b) 
Fig. 1.  (a) Positive piezo effect (b) Negative piezo effect  
    Therefore if electric field E and strain S are selected as 
inputs, then stress T and charge density D will be outputs as 
shown by Eq. (1) and Eq. (2).  
            mmijiji E-eScT =             (1) 
       EεSeD kmkimim +=               (2) 
Similarly if electric field E and stress T are selected, 
Eq. (3) and Eq. (4) are governing equations as a general pair 
[1]:. 
         EdTsS mmijiji +=            (3) 
       ETdD kmkimim ε+=             (4) 
B.    Deflection of Disc Piezo Actuator  
  Fig. 2(a) shows a piezo stripe with one end clamped as 
a cantilever beam. Upper and lower layers are made of piezo 
ceramic and inner layer, an elastic brass plate. Connecting 
leads from Ag electrodes of upper and lower layer together 
and applying AC voltage between the leads and the inner 
brass plate will result in an effect of bending deflection as 
shown in Fig. 2(b) and (c).      .  
 
         (a)               (b)             (c) 
Fig. 2. Deflection piezo stripe 
   
              (a)                   (b) 
Fig.3. Reshaping piezo stripes into a disc-type piezo actuator.   
 Fig. 3(a) reshapes piezo stripes into a disc-type piezo 
actuator, called disc bender, piezo ceramic disc or bimorph 
-type actuator, which generates micro oscillation along its 
axle as shown in Fig. 3(b).  
The technology to convert the oscillation of disc-type 
piezo into linear motion, i.e. the motion of linear actuator, 
involves 1) mechanism 2) driver and 3) controller. Fig. 4 
shows a system block diagram that includes those key 
subsystems. 
 
Fig.4. Block diagram of a piezo linear actuator  
In section II, the mechanism converts axle oscillation of 
hundreds of nm into a forward boost similar to a DC voltage 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
Fig.7. Implementation of driver circuit 
                  IV.     SIMULATION 
     Parameters of piezo linear actuator include voltage 
source (input), stress (output), mass (disc and load: axle and 
manipulator), damping, stiffness (bending and linear), 
conversion effect from electric to mechanical and piezo 
layer capacitance. Those parameters can be transformed to 
an equivalent circuit by using transformer with electric input 
voltage to primary stage and pick up the voltage (i.e. stress) 
at the second stage. Fig.8 shows such an equivalent circuit 
with notations defined as follows. Simulation are able to 
find impedance v.s. frequency so as to realize the resonance 
frequency and anti-resonance [3]～[5].  
 
Fig.8. Transformer equivalent circuiot 
 
Where 
outσ : stress (voltage output), mL : mass, bR : damping, kR : 
radial stiffness,  n: E to M conversion effect, bC : piezo 
layer capacitance, V :  Voltage source.  
 
          V.    TESTING AND ANALYSIS   
A. Measurement Setup 
    Instrumentation for measuring performance of piezo 
linear actuator includes function generator, piezo film 
(sensor) amplifier, oscilloscope and DC power supply as 
shown in Fig. 9(a) and (b).    
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 9. Measurement setup 
 
B. Testing Results 
   Note that one circle of piezo oscillation is composed of 
a boost stage and a rest stage. Therefore accumulating all the 
boosts constructs the move stroke. Direction of stroke can be 
either move in or move out with respective to piezo disc as 
indicated in Fig. 6(i). Test results are given as follows. 
Move out: 
  Refering to Fig. 10 (a)～(d), test data are:  
     Duty circle: >50% 
     Stroke:15 mm 
     Stroke duration: 1.66sec 
Where 
Fig. 10(a): driving signal (from function generator) .  
Fig. 10(b): oscillation signal (from piezo film sensor) 
Fig. 10(c): move out of manipulator. 
Fig. 10(d): Stroke duration (from oscilloscope) 
 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
Fig. 10. Measurement regarding move out 
 
Move in: 
 Similar to the test procedure of move out, test figures are 
acquired as given in Fig. 11(a)～(c).  
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
