2 
電位式/電流式感測器整合訊號處理晶片設計及其電子舌系統之應用研究(I) 
“Potentialmetric/Amperometric Sensor Integrated Signal Processor Chip Design and Their Electronic Tongue System 
Applications (I)” 
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-033-064 
 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：中原大學電子工程系 鍾文耀教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫以三年期之研究規劃，擬完成電位
式/電流式感測器整合訊號處理晶片設計及其
電子舌系統之應用研究。在第一年，我們以開
閘式離子敏感型場效電晶體 (Open-gate Ion 
Sensitive FET, ISFET)與延伸閘離子敏感型場
效電晶體(Extended-gate ISFET, EGFET)為載
具平台，進行運動休閒產業水質監測所需之核
心參數，含氫離子、氯離子與溫度訊號處理晶
片設計，以及開發三電極之電流式血糖感測訊
號創新讀出電路，期能達到基礎之電子舌仿生
系統研製。本年度計畫已完成(1)以錫化銦/玻
璃基板為基礎之延伸閘氯離子感測元件(2)同
時適用於傳統離子敏感型場效電晶體與延伸
閘離子敏感型場效電晶體之橋式源極讀出電
路設計(3)金屬閘製程之空乏型 MOSFET 與
ISFET 感測器整合應用之具溫度補償的氫離
子感測電路設計製作(4)新型三電極之電流式
血糖感測訊號讀出電路設計與驗證。其中，(3)
與(4)項研究內容已進行中華民國專利申請中。 
 
英文摘要 
This three-year project (2007/08/01-2010 
/07/31) aims to develop potentialmetric/ 
amperometric sensor integrated signal processor 
chips and their electronic-tongue biomimetic 
system applications. In the first year 
(2007/08/01-2008/07/31), in order to explore the 
basic electronic tongue microsystem, we have 
designed core readout circuit chips for 
ISFET-based hydrogen, chloride ion and 
temperature sensing to use in water quality 
control of the recreation and leisure industry. In 
addition, we have developed a novel analog 
front-end circuitry for a three-electrode 
amperometric glucose sensor in the first year. 
Bridge-type constant voltage, constant current, 
and temperature compensation circuitries have 
all been developed for ISFET and EGFET to 
sense hydrogen and chloride ions for water 
quality monitoring applications. This design 
offers a sensitivity of over 54mV/pH and an 
improved temperature coefficient (T.C.) of 
0.02mV/°C; in addition, a sensitivity of 
43mV/pCl can be achieved by using a proposed 
extended-gate FET with a mixed polyvinyl 
chloride (PVC), chloride ionophore III 
(ETH9033) and lipophylic salt on the 
Indium-Tin-Oxide (ITO)/glass substrate.  
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
二十一世紀，拜半導體技術與生物科技之
賜，除了帶來物質文明之進步及人類壽命的延
長外，另一方面，也帶來因科技與人為建設造
成之自然環境破壞，因而更顯出水、空氣與土
壤等三大資源維護之重要性。如何利用微觀
(Micro)層次之「微電子」及「生物與化學感測
圖三是由 Agilent B1500)導體參數分析儀
整合之量測組態，除了可測氯離子感測度外，
也可由變溫以觀察溫漂效應。利用 ID-VGS特性
量測與不同 NaCl 緩衝溶液濃度之測試結果，
如圖四與圖五之數據顯示在 pCl=1~pCl=5 之
濃度範圍，具有 43mV/pCl 之感測度。此研究
成果於 IEEE UGIM2008 國際會議發表[1] 
 
圖三 半導體參數分析儀整合之量測組態 
 
圖四 不同氯離子濃度之 ID-VGS反應曲線 
 
圖五 不同定值電流操作之氯離子濃度感測度 
 
(2) 具溫度補償之新型氫離子讀出電路架構:    
本電路之設計是採完成一新型的前端讀
出、溫度感測電路以及差分電路，在此所使用
的差分電路為 PMOS 組態，以消除基底效應對
輸出的影響，電路如圖六 所示，(a)區塊為
ISFET 讀出電路(含 pH 與溫度效應)、(b)區塊
為溫度感測(只含溫度效應)、(c)區塊為差分電
路，用之以相減得到一與溫度不相關的電壓輸
出。此電路的優點為溫度與酸鹼值讀出電路簡
單、電晶體數少與佈局面積小、搭配國際合作
夥伴波蘭電子技術所提供之 ISFET 與
MOSFET(DM1 及 DM2)感測電晶體對之使用
且可最佳化得到較小的功率耗損、具溫度補
償。因此，(b) 區塊也可同時擔任溫度感測器
之角色。圖七為讀出電路下線晶片俯視圖。圖
八所示浸泡於 pH7 緩衝溶液之量測結果顯示
溫 度 相 關 性 經 補 償 後 可 以 降 低 二 倍
(-0.4104mV/℃改善至-0.2453 mV/℃)。本電路
已進行中華民國新型專利申請中。此成果亦於
2007 IEEE IEDSSC 國際會議發表[2]。 
 
圖六 具溫度補償之 ISFET 酸鹼度讀出電路 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
VISFE
VTEM
 
圖七 讀出電路下線晶片俯視圖 
4 
圖十二 量測濃度對量測電流曲線 
五、誌謝 
The authors deeply appreciate the National 
Science Council, Republic of China for research 
fund NSC 96-2221-E-033-064 and the National 
Chip Implementation Center, Taiwan for tech 
-nical support and future chip fabrication. 
 
六、研究成果與參考文獻 
[1] Wen-Yaw Chung, Kuo-Chung Chang, Da-You Honga, 
Cheanyeh Chengb, Febus Cruzaa, Tai Sung Liu, 
Chung Huang Yang, Jung-Lung Chiang, Dorota G. 
Pijanowska, Marek Dawgul, Wladyslaw Torbicz, 
Pitor B. Grabiec, Bohdan Jarosewicz, “An Electronic 
Tongue System Design Using Ion Sensitive Field 
Effect Transistors and Their Interfacing Circuit 
Techniques,” IEEE UGIM 2008 Symposium, July, 
2008, Louisville, U.S.A., Page(s): 44-48.  
 
[2] Tai-Tsun Liu; Wen-Yaw Chung; Cruz, F.R.G.; 
You-Lin Tsai; Pijanowska, D.G.; Torbicz, W.; 
Grabiec, P.B.; Jaroszewicz, B.; and Chen-Yi Lee, 
“VTH -Extractors Based Readout Circuit of ISFET 
with Temperature Compensation,” IEEE Conference 
on Electron Devices and Solid-State Circuits, 2007. 
EDSSC 2007. 20-22 Dec. 2007 Page(s):901 - 904. 圖十三 三電極讀出電路佈局圖 
 
[3] Wen-Yaw Chung; Paglinawan, A.C.; Ying-Hsiang 
Wang; Tsai-Tseng Kuo; “A 600uW Readout Circuit 
with Potentiostat for Amperometric Chemical Sensors 
and Glucose Meter Applications,” IEEE Conference 
on Electron Devices and Solid-State Circuits, 2007. 
EDSSC 2007. 20-22 Dec. 2007 Page(s):1087 - 1090. 
四、 計畫成果自評(結論與討論) 
本研究計畫已完成“電位式/電流式感測
器整合訊號處理晶片設計及其電子舌系統之
應用研究”第一年之核心研究項目，含(1)以錫
化銦/玻璃基板為基礎之延伸閘氯離子感測元
件(2)同時適用於傳統離子敏感型場效電晶體
與延伸閘離子敏感型場效電晶體之橋式源極
讀出電路設計 (3) 金屬閘製程之空乏型
MOSFET 與 ISFET 感測器整合應用之具溫度
補償的氫離子感測電路設計製作(4)新型三電
極之電流式血糖感測訊號讀出電路設計與驗
證。這些成果對於第二年擬持續進行之訊號處
理晶片與其他多離子感測之研究，已有不錯之
基礎建設。本研究群第一年的相關研究結果，
共發表三篇 IEEE 國際會議論文，並進行中華
民國與美國專利[6]兩案件的申請，以及計畫所
使用之核心橋式讀出電路陸續於 2008 年五月
獲得中華民國與美國專利兩案件[4,5]核准，成
果豐碩。 
[4] Chung, Wen-Yaw; Yang, Chung-Huang; Pijanowska, 
Dorota Genowefa; Grabiec, Piotr; Jaroszewicz, 
Bohdan; and Torbicz, Wladyslaw (2008), “Electronic 
circuit for ion sensor with body effect reduction” , 美
國專利, 7,368,917 2008.2008－2025.5 (2008.5.6) 
[5] 鍾文耀; 楊忠煌; 多拉卡.傑諾威法.皮加洛斯卡; 皮
奧特葛雷畢克; 博丹 亞洛謝維奇; 華雷弟斯洛.托
畢克斯 (2008), “降低基體效應之離子感測電路” , 中
華民國 , I296709 2008.2008－2025.5 (2008.5.11).  
[6] Wen-Yaw Chung, Tsai-Tseng Kuo, Ying-Hsian Wang,   
Dorota Genowefa Pijanowska, and Wladyslaw Torbicz, 
“Signal Readout Circuit for Amperometric Sensor,” 美
國專利申請中(2008.03) 
 
6 
出席國際會議報告-     IEEE UGIM 2008 Symposium      July 13-July 16 2008           鍾文耀 第 2 頁 
際會議，每兩年舉辦一次。當初成立時，標竿於微電子工程，現已將目標設定為(Innovation 
through miniaturization/Macro/Nano)，已發展為美國在電子元件微米及奈米領域提供產官學互
動最重要的會議之一。核心主題包括(1)Electrowetting-創新元件及應用、(2)無塵室設備及策略
聯盟、(3)特定議題-半導體及微機電、生物材料、電子舌系統、(4) 半導體元件、(5)大學微米
-奈米學程開發、(6) 微機電感測器與致動器、(7)無線微-奈機電系統、(8)光學元件、與(9)微
米及奈米技術製程與材料、(10)實驗室晶片元件與系統。本次三天主要議程會議共有48篇口
頭報告論文，34 篇之壁報論文發表及4家廠商與研究機構參展。整個會議除了包括專題口頭
報告、壁報論文、及廠商展示三部分外，參觀路易維爾大學之奈米中心，亦是一重要活動。
我們之口頭論文是安排在七月十四日下午之(3)特定議題中發表，本篇論文-以離子感測場效電
晶體及其介面電路技術之電子舌系統設計，主要是以(a)以錫化銦/玻璃基板為基礎之延伸閘氯
離子感測元件、(b)同時適用於傳統離子敏感型場效電晶體與延伸閘離子敏感型場效電晶體之
橋式源極讀出電路設計、及(c)金屬閘製程之空乏型MOSFET與ISFET感測器整合應用之具溫
度補償的氫離子感測電路設計等三項成果做報告，並將中原大學與波蘭科學院生物醫學所、
波蘭電子技術所多年合作經驗分享與會之所有研究團隊，我們的報告也帶來了此次大會指導
委員會(Steering Committee)之Miss Katalin Voros (University of California, Berkeley)與Dr. Lynn 
Fuller (Rochester Institute of Technology)等委員之好評與熱列回應。 
另一方面，在(5)大學微米-奈米學程開發之議程中，幾所大學，含 R.I.T.所提出關於微機
電製程技術、大學部微機電課程與電晶體設計等內涵，發人深省也值得學習。在壁報論文議
程中，也呈現出多元之研究主題，並且進行報告者，大多是外籍之博士研究生，也展現美國
學術環境之開放與全球性。本次研討會，與會之大陸學者大都來自學術界，如普度大學與凱
斯西儲大學等；而來自台灣的發表者還包括國家奈米中心之丁志華博士，除了奈米碳管之研
究成果外，也介紹了國家奈米中心與學術界研發互動與培訓中心之現況，令與會者印象深刻。 
二、與會心得 
UGIM2008國際會議，整合了美國各州在微米-奈米研究為重之代表性大學、相關領域之
工業界人士、NSF與MOSIS之代表、以及國外研究團隊與會，此種模式之會議值得我們借鏡。
經由本次會議，也使本人深深感受到美國政府在微米及奈米技術與研究中心(如哈佛、柏克
萊、杜克等大學)之佈局與經費投入，是長期經營並具有顯著成效。而且，這些重點研究中心
An Electronic Tongue System Design Using Ion 
Sensitive Field Effect Transistors and Their 
Interfacing Circuit Techniques
Wen-Yaw Chunga, Kuo-Chung Changb, Da-You 
Honga, Cheanyeh Chengb, Febus Cruzaa, Tai Sung Liua
Electronic Engineeringa, and Chemistryb Departments 
Chung-Yuan Christian University 
Chung-Li City, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
eldanny@cycu.edu.tw 
Chung Huang Yang 
Electronic Engineering Department 
Vanung University of Technology 
Chung-Li City, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Jung-Lung Chiang 
Electronic Engineering Department 
Chung-Chou Institute of Technology 
Changhua County, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Dorota G. Pijanowska, Marek Dawgul, Wladyslaw 
Torbicz 
Institute of Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering 
Polish Academy of Sciences 
Warsaw, Poland 
Pitor B. Grabiec, Bohdan Jarosewicz 
Department of Silicon Microsystem and Nanostructure 
Technology 
Institute of Electron Technology 
Warsaw, Poland 
Abstract—This paper proposes an electronic tongue system 
design using ion sensitive field effect transistors (ISFETs), 
extended-gate FET (EGFET) and their interfacing circuit 
techniques. Bridge-type constant voltage, constant current, and 
temperature compensation circuitries have all been developed for 
ISFET to sense hydrogen and chloride ions for water quality 
monitoring applications. This design offers a sensitivity of over 
54mV/pH and an improved temperature coefficient (T.C.) of 
0.02mV/°C; in addition, a sensitivity of 43mV/pCl can be 
achieved by using a proposed extended-gate FET with a mixed 
polyvinyl chloride (PVC), chloride ionophore III (ETH9033) and 
lipophylic salt on the Indium-Tin-Oxide (ITO)/glass substrate. 
Keywords-electronic tongue; ISFET; EGFET; ionophore; ion 
sensing 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Biomimetic devices have become more and more important 
in modern life where populations are aging. Electronic tongue 
[1] and nose systems [2] provide more services in various 
fields such as environmental monitoring, food science, and 
point of care business. Electronic tongue can be used to 
identify or recognize specific components in a solution. To 
develop an electronic tongue system, we are focusing on key 
technologies including: sensor and membrane; interfacing and 
conditioning circuitry; temperature compensation and output 
drivers. Multi-discipline knowledge and technical integration 
affect the success of an electronic tongue development. 
Figure 1. Stages in the research of an electronic tongue development
This paper describes a multi-year project which has been 
sponsored by the National Science Council, Taiwan, the 
Institute of Biocybernetic and Biomedical Engineering, the 
Polish Academy of Science, and the Institute of Electron 
Technology, Poland. The project aims to develop an electronic 
tongue system by using ion sensitive field effect transistors 
(ISFETs) and their interfacing circuit techniques. The research 
shown in Fig.1 for water quality monitoring applications in 
swimming pools and aquariums consists of: sensor design and 
fabrication; sensing film preparation and immobilization for H+
and Cl- sensing; interfacing circuit design with non-ideal effect 
The National Science Council and the National Chip Implementation 
Center, Taiwan have supported this research since 2006. 
Sensor Design and Fabrication 
Sensing Film Preparation & Immobilization 
Interfacing Circuit Design 
System Integration and Prototyping 
Electronic Tongues for Water Quality Monitoring 
Non-ideal effect consideration 
978-1-4244-2485-6/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE
C.    Circuitry with Temperature Compensation
We have developed the readout circuit to improve the non-
ideal effects due to inherent characteristics of ISFET such as 
temperature-dependency, time drift and hysteresis. The design 
concerns have also been inspired by real considerations such 
as simpler design and lower power consumption of the sensing 
system.  
Regarding the basic concept which was initialized by Z. 
Wang in 1992 [5], a VTH extractor circuit shown in Fig. 6 can 
be used to develop a new ion sensing and interfacing circuitry 
with temperature compensation.  
Figure 6. Four-terminal extractor circuit [5] 
With the setting of a 1:1 mirror in M1 and M2, and 
specific W/L sizes setting of M3, M4 and M5, then with the 
current operations which are expressed in equations (2) – (5), 
the analysis shows that the output voltage is equivalent to the 
threshold potential.  
                                                               
(2)
                                                              (3) 
Where IDM3 = I1 = IDM4 = IDM5 = I2, then, we can derive the 
relationship between Vo and VTH based on (4) and (5). 
                                                                                         (4) 
Then,                                       (5) 
Fig. 7 gives the complete design of a novel readout circuit 
of ISFET with temperature compensation based on the VTH
extractor circuits. We use the advantages of sensors, including 
ISFET and depletion type Al-gate FET, (DM1 and DM2) were 
fabricated on the same wafer. The design consists of blocks (a), 
(b), and (c). Block (a) is the ISFET pH sensing circuit. The gate 
and the drain of ISFET are connected together to make sure 
that it operates in saturation. The saturation drain-source 
current is set at 50μA because of the stable characteristics of 
ISFET in this value. With a fixed drain-source current, the 
gate-source voltage of ISFET varies directly with its threshold 
voltage in the saturation region according to equation (2). As a 
result, the voltage VISFET is proportional with pH levels. 
Figure 7. VTH extractor based readout circuit with temperature compensation
Block (b) is the depletion-mode MOSFET (DMOSFET) 
temperature sensing circuit. The voltage VTEMP is proportional 
to the temperature value in DMOSFET and block (c) is the 
output differential stage which was built by M12 and M17. 
Then, the common temperature dependencies of ISFET and 
DMOSFET can be cancelled. As a result, the output voltage 
VCOMP is completed temperature compensation. 
D.    AP180 Prototyping System
   Prototyping of the electronic tongue system has been 
demonstrated by a microcontroller-based system (AP180) 
shown in Fig. 8 with three channels respectively fed by H+, Cl-
, and a temperature sensor, connected to their readout circuits 
developed in this research. The board provides an 8052- 
compatible high-performance risk structure, four-channel 
signal processing, one analog-to-digital convert and two 
digital-to-analog converters with a 10-bit resolution.  Because 
the readings obtained through the sensor interfacing circuit 
and ADC are relative values, the two-point calibration using 
binary searching and approaching algorithm has been 
developed to make the unknown buffer solution provide 
absolute reading of pH or pCl values.  
The sensor responses are not usually linear and the 
sensitivity slope may be different at lower values as compared 
to higher value detection shown in Fig.9. When the sensor has 
a very good linearity, the two-point calibration values are 
enough to define the succeeding measurements. However, 
when the responses are different at lower and higher values, a 
three-point calibration algorithm including pH4, pH7, and 
pH10 setting has been employed for a more accurate reading.
( )23 2
1
THREFoxnDM VVL
WCI −= μ
( )
2
4 22
14 ¸
¹
·¨
©
§
−= THoxnDM V
Vo
L
WCI μ
( ) 22 )
2
(
2
1)4(
2
1
THoxnTHREFoxn V
Vo
L
WCVV
L
WC −=− μμ
THREFo VVV −=
W/L 
I1 
I2 
1:1 mirror 
4xW/L 
4xW/L 
(a)
(b) 
(c) 
VISFET
VTEMP 
