 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
Au-CdS 核殼奈米晶體其光催化特性研究 
Au-CdS Core-Shell Nanocrystals Exhibiting Notable 
Photocatalytic Activity under Visible Light Illumination 
 
計畫編號：NSC-97-2221-E-009-073 
執行期限：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：徐雍鎣  交通大學材料系 
 
Abstract 
We previously demonstrated the pronounced photoinduced charge separation property for 
Au-CdS core-shell nanocrystals, which stimulates further interests to exploit their potential in 
photocatalysis. We present in this research a thorough investigation on the photocatalytic 
properties for Au-CdS nanocrystals with various shell thickness. The photocatalytic activity of 
Au-CdS nanocrystals was found to increase with increasing shell thickness, attributable to the 
greater capability of light absorption achieved by the extensive growth of CdS shell. As compared 
to the relevant commercial products like P-25 TiO2 and CdS powders, the as-synthesized Au-CdS 
nanocrystals exhibited superior photocatalytic performance toward RhB photodegradation under 
visible light illumination. This is due to the effective charge separation that took place at the 
interface of Au/CdS, thus providing more charge carriers for participation in photocatalysis. This 
result reveals the potential as an efficient visible-light-driven photocatalyst for Au-CdS core-shell 
nanocrystals. 
關鍵字：cadmium sulfide (硫化鎘), charge separation (載子分離), photocatalysis (光催化) 
 
 
1. Introduction 
The dream to harvest energy from sunlight 
has stimulated a growing research interest in 
developing photochemical systems that can 
respond to visible light.1 Among them, 
photocatalysis is a valuable approach to 
effectively utilize solar power. The most 
commonly used semiconductor photocatalysts 
have been metal oxides like TiO2, which 
exhibits ultraviolet absorption ability only due 
to its large bandgap energy. Many efforts have 
thus been made to modify TiO2 such that it can 
absorb visible light to carry out photocatalytic 
reactions. For example, through the doping of 
C,2 N,3 S,4 F,5 or P6 elements, an additional 
electronic level can be created and located in 
the energy gap of TiO2, extending its light 
absorption range from ultraviolet to visible 
regions. Besides the doped TiO2 photocatalysts, 
many other semiconductors that possess 
suitable bandgap energies are found to show 
fascinating photocatalytic activities upon 
sunlight illumination.7 CdS is one of the most 
popular visible-light-driven photocatalysts 
since it has a bandgap energy of 2.5 eV that 
corresponds well with the visible light. In 
addition, its conduction band at relatively 
negative potential (-1.0 versus NHE)8 offers 
CdS a good photocatalytic activity. Till now, 
many structural forms of CdS including 
nanoparticles,9 hollow nanospheres,10 porous 
nanocrystals,11 nanowires,12 nanotubes,13 and 
nanocomposites14 have been proven effective in 
relevant photocatalytic processes. 
In general, the fast recombination of 
photoexcited charge carriers in semiconductors 
would diminish the resulting photocatalytic 
efficiency. To boost photocatalytic performance, 
the photoexcited electrons and holes must be 
separated to suppress the direct recombination 
of them. Through the introduction of suitable 
metals, semiconductors may exhibit superior 
photocatalytic activities. This is due to the 
presence of metal/semiconductor interface that 
 4
to measure the concentration variation of RhB 
through recording the corresponding 
absorbance of the characteristic peak at 553 
nm. 
Characterizations. The morphology and 
dimensions of Au-CdS nanocrystals were 
examined with a high-resolution TEM 
(HRTEM, JEOL JEM-3000) operated at 300 kV. 
The information about the electronic structures 
of Au in Au-CdS nanocrystals was obtained 
with X-ray photoelectron spectroscope (XPS, 
VG Scientific, Microlab 350). UV-Visible 
spectra were collected using a Hitachi 3900H at 
room temperature under ambient atmosphere. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
First, core-shell nanocrystals of Au-CdS 
were prepared in a hydrothermal process by 
using the pre-synthesized Au colloids and 
Cys/Cd complexes as the starting materials. 
The formation of Au-CdS nanocrystals 
involved the binding of Cys/Cd complexes 
toward Au nanoparticles, followed by the 
decomposition of Cys/Cd in the hydrothermal 
reaction and the subsequent growth of CdS 
onto the surfaces of Au. By suitably modulating 
the experimental parameters such as the 
volumes of Cys/Cd added, a controllable shell 
thickness can be achieved. Figures 1(a), (b), (c) 
and (d) reveal the gradual growth of CdS shell 
for Au-CdS nanocrystals achieved by 
employing Cys/Cd of increasing volumes. A 
shell thickness of about 9.0, 11.9, 14.0 and 18.6 
nm can be observed for these four Au-CdS 
samples, respectively. The current Au-CdS 
nanocrystals provide an ideal platform to study 
the photocatalytic properties for 
metal-semiconductor core-shell 
heterostructures. Due to the difference in band 
structures between Au and CdS, a pronounced 
photoinduced charge separation took place at 
the interface of Au/CdS, resulting in an 
electron-charged Au core and a hole-enriched 
CdS shell. The electron-charging of Au core in 
Au-CdS nanocrystals can be revealed with the 
corresponding XPS analysis. As shown in 
Figure 1(e), a binding energy of 84.1 eV of Au 
4f7/2 peak was found for pure Au colloid sample, 
which is in good agreement with the value of 
bulk metallic Au.20 However, a negative 
binding energy shift of around 0.5 eV of Au 
4f7/2 peak was observed for Au-CdS 
nanocrystals, indicating a significant difference 
in electronic structures between Au and CdS 
and a strong electronic interaction therein.21 
Similar phenomenon was ever reported in 
Au-SnO2core-shell nanocrystal system, in 
which the binding energy shift of Au 4f was 
attributed to the effective electron transfer from 
SnO2 to Au.22 Here we ascribed the negative 
binding energy shift of Au 4f observed in 
Au-CdS nanocrystals to the electron-charging 
of Au core that resulted from the occurrence of 
charge separation. On the other hand, the 
hole-enriched CdS shell of Au-CdS 
nanocrystals upon light illumination can be 
characterized with a proper photocatalytic 
process. Owing to the pronounced charge 
separation, photogenerated holes with an 
abundant amount were existent in CdS shell 
and would transfer to the surfaces of 
nanocrystals. These highly reactive holes could 
oxidize water to produce hydroxyl radicals that 
can further decompose organic pollutants 
through an oxidation process. As a consequence, 
a spectacular capability of photocatalytic 
oxidation was expected at the surfaces of the 
as-synthesized Au-CdS nanocrystals. 
A series of photocatalysis experiments were 
performed in this work to investigate the 
photocatalytic properties of Au-CdS 
nanocrystals. RhB, a typical dye that can be 
decomposed by hydroxyl radicals,23 was used 
as the test pollutant to monitor the 
photocatalytic oxidation progress for Au-CdS 
nanocrystals. The time-dependent UV-Visible 
spectra of RhB solutions under visible light 
illumination in the presence of Au-CdS 
nanocrystals with a shell thickness of 14.0 nm 
were first shown in Figure 2(a). It can be seen 
that the intensity of the characteristic 
absorption peak at 553 nm decreased 
dramatically with the irradiation time. 
Furthermore, a concomitant blue shift in the 
absorption maximum was observed after the 
solution was irradiated for 20 min. It is well 
known that the photodegradation of RhB 
undergoes two competitive processes.24 One is 
the destruction of dye chromogen, which is 
characteristic of the loss of absorbance at 553 
 6
same experimental conditions. The insets of 
Figure 4(b) display the structural characteristics 
of the three CdS-based photocatalysts. Note 
that CdS counterpart was composed of CdS 
hollow structures, which were prepared by 
dissolving the Au core of Au-CdS 
nanocrystals.19 The comparative results were 
shown in Figures 4, from which several points 
can be observed. First, commercial CdS 
powders showed higher photocatalytic 
efficiency than P-25 TiO2 since the bandgap of 
CdS was fitter for visible light. Second, as 
compared to CdS counterpart, a significant 
enhancement in the photocatalytic activity was 
observed for Au-CdS nanocrystals, again 
demonstrating the pronounced charge 
separation characteristic of Au-CdS and its 
benefit to photocatalysis. Third, the rate 
constant of RhB photodegradation for Au-CdS 
nanocrystals with a shell thickness of 18.6 nm 
reached 0.072 min-1, much higher than those of 
the relevant commercial products like P-25 
TiO2 and CdS powders, suggesting that the 
as-synthesized nanocrystals of Au-CdS can be 
potentially utilized as an efficient 
visible-light-driven photocatalyst. 
 
4. Conclusion 
In conclusion, the photocatalytic 
properties of Au-CdS core-shell nanocrystals 
with various shell thickness were 
investigated and presented. Due to the 
pronounced charge separation that occurred 
at the interface of Au/CdS, a notable 
photocatalytic efficiency was expected for 
Au-CdS nanocrystals. The photocatalytic 
activity of Au-CdS nanocrystals was found 
to increase with increasing shell thickness, 
attributable to the greater capability of light 
absorption achieved by the extensive growth 
of CdS shell. More importantly, as compared 
to the relevant commercial products like 
P-25 TiO2 and CdS powders, the 
as-synthesized Au-CdS nanocrystals 
exhibited superior photocatalytic 
performance under visible light illumination, 
demonstrating their potential as an effective 
visible-light-driven photocatalyst. The 
current Au-CdS nanocrystals may find 
promising photocatalytic applications 
especially in the photooxidative 
decomposition of various organic pollutants 
such as aldehydes4b,16e and chlorinated 
hydrocarbons.29 The present study also 
provides a new paradigm for designing the 
highly-efficient metal/semiconductor hybrid 
photocatalysts that can effectively utilize 
solar power. 
 
References 
(1) (a) Kamat, P. V. J. Phys. Chem. C 2007, 111, 
2834. (b) Kamat, P. V. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 
18737. 
(2) (a) Khan, S. U. M.; Al-Shahry, M.; Ingler, W. B., 
Jr. Science 2002, 297, 2243. (b) Sakthivel, S.; Kisch, H. 
Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2003, 42, 4908. (c) Wu, G.; 
Nishikawa, T.; Ohtani, B.; Chen, A. Chem. Mater. 2007, 
19, 4530. 
(3) (a) Asahi, R.; Morikawa, T.; Ohwaki, T.; Aoki, 
K.; Taga, Y. Science 2001, 293, 269. (b) In, S.; Orlov, A.; 
Garcia, F.; Tikhov, M.; Wright, D. S.; Lambert, R. M. 
Chem. Commun. 2006, 4236. (c) Jagadale, T. C.; Takale, 
S. P.; Sonawane, R. S.; Joshi, H. M.; Patil, S. I.; Kale, B. 
B.; Ogale, S. B. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 14595. 
(4) (a) T. Umebayashi, T. Yamaki and H. Itoh, K. 
Asai, Appl. Phys. Lett. 2002, 81, 454. (b) Wang, Y.; 
Wang, Y.; Meng, Y.; Ding, H.; Shan, Y.; Zhao, X.; Tang, 
X. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 6620. (c) Periyat, P.; 
Pillai, S. C.; McCormack, D. E.; Colreavy, J.; Hinder, S. 
J. J. Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 7644. 
(5) (a) Yu, J. C.; Yu, J.; Ho, W.; Jiang, Z.; Zhang, L. 
Chem. Mater. 2002, 14, 3808. (b) Li, D.; Haneda, H.; 
Hishita, S.; Ohashi, N. Chem. Mater. 2005, 17, 2596. (c) 
Ho, W.; Yu, J. C.; Lee, S. Chem. Commun. 2006, 1115. 
(6) (a) Yu, J. C.; Zhang, L.; Zheng, Z.; Zhao, J. Chem. 
Mater. 2003, 15, 2280. (b) Shi, Q.; Yang, D.; Jiang, Z.; 
Li, J. J. Mol. Catal. B 2006, 43, 44. 
(7) (a) Zhao, Z.-G.; Miyauchi, M. Angew. Chem., Int. 
Ed. 2008, 47, 7051. (b) He, Y.; Li, D.; Xiao, G.; Chen, 
W.; Chen, Y.; Sun, M.; Huang, H.; Fu, X. J. Phys. Chem. 
C 2009, 113, 5254. (c) Frame, F. A.; Carroll, E. C.; 
Larsen, D. S.; Sarahan, M.; Browningb, N. D.; Osterloh, 
F. E. Chem. Commun. 2008, 2206. (d) Sun, M.; Li, D.; Li, 
W.; Chen, Y.; Chen, Z.; He, Y.; Fu, X. J. Phys. Chem. C 
2008, 112, 18076. (e) Cho, I.-S.; Lee, S.; Noh, J. H.; 
Choi, G. K.; Jung, H. S.; Kim, D. W.; Hong, K. S. J. 
Phys. Chem. C 2008, 112, 18393. 
(8) Kamat, P. V.; Shanghavi, B. J. Phys. Chem. B 
1997, 101, 7675. 
 8
 
Figure 1. (a)~(d) Representative TEM images of Au-CdS nanocatalysts with four increasing shell 
thickness. The scale bar is 30 nm. (e) XPS spectra of Au 4f for Au colloids and Au-CdS 
nanocrystals. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. (a) Absorption spectra of RhB solutions undergoing photodegradation in the presence of 
Au-CdS nanocrystals under different irradiation times. (b) The fitting plot of normalized RhB 
concentration versus irradiation time. 
 
 
 10
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. (a) C/Co versus irradiation time plots for RhB photodegradation in the presence of 
different photocatalysts. (b) Comparison of the resulting rate constants of RhB photodegradation 
among different photcatalysts. Insets in (b) show the corresponding TEM images of photocatalysts 
and the scale bar is 20 nm. 
 
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97－2221－E－009－073 
計畫名稱 金屬/半導體奈米異質界面與其光誘發載子分離、光催化產氫與電子儲存特性研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
徐雍鎣   交通大學材料科學與工程學系 
會議時間地點 98年 8月 19日～98年 8月 21日、Kiel、Germany 
會議名稱 3rd International Workshop on Smart Materials and Structures 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此次會議於 98年 8月 19日至 8月 21日在德國基爾舉辦，乃由基爾應用科學大學
(University of Applied Sciences at Keil)之材料與表面科技研究所(Institute for Materials and 
Surface Technology)主辦，為歐洲地區材料科學界之一大盛事。此會議之目的為提供一學術與
技術交流之平台，使全球各界從事有關智慧型材料之設計與其應用研究的學者可互相觀摩與
討論，以擴張研究視野。智慧型材料領域包括奈米材料、半導體材料、光電材料、電磁材料、
以及觸媒材料等，是一個包括多領域、兼具基礎學理與應用之科學。在參與此會議過程中，
經由與各方專家們的熱烈討論，對於本人後續之研究方向與創新，亦有相當大的啟發。尤其，
與會中與德國科隆大學化學系(Department of Chemistry, University of Cologne)之 Prof. Mathur
相談甚歡，討論有關彼此研究方向與未來發展，激發了我許多的研究構想。Prof. Mathur並邀
請我參加年底於 UCLA舉辦之光觸媒材料應用會議，Prof. Mathur為該會議之邀請講者，相信
藉由與其在相關研究成果上的分享與認識，能使我更瞭解未來我所應當努力的方向。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
在科技發展日新月異的今日，我們所居住的環境也快速破壞中，隨著能源問題與環保意
識的抬頭，環境淨化和落實環境保護甚是急迫，也是我們必須面臨與解決的議題；為了可達
到永續經營的目標，伴隨著快速發展的奈米科技，科學家們開始致力於應用光觸媒以達到清
潔、殺菌與除臭等目的。倘若能利用太陽光源作為能量來源，搭配半導體奈米材料作為光觸
媒的使用，於實做上即能將太陽能轉換為化學能，並應用於分解環境中的污染物。半導體奈
米材料，在接受光照射後，其所激發出之電子與電洞，若能導出於材料便可被廣泛應用於多
種光觸媒反應中，例如光催化分解環境中的污染物、除臭等。在此會議中，關於智慧型材料
尤其是光觸媒之製備技巧與應用觀念，以及其應用的突破與目前發展趨勢的討論，均讓本人
受益良多，特別是複合結構的製備，與其應用於光觸媒與化學觸媒方面的研究，證實了奈米
異質結構其未來發展與應用的潛力。目前本研究室的研究方向以製備奈米異質結構為主，並
將其應用在光催化相關用途上。由金屬與半導體材料所組成之異質界面，當半導體材料經照
光激發出電子電洞對時，由於能帶結構的相對關係，電子會從半導體端之傳導帶轉移至金屬
