 II
Abstract 
 
The project was directed to the study of dynamic and structural properties of complex 
polymer and polymer/surfactant adsorption films at the liquid-gas interface. Although numerous 
applications of aqueous polymeric systems are often connected with their unique surface 
properties, information on the dynamics of macromolecules at the liquid surface has been scarce 
until recently. In the framework of the projects the dynamic and static properties of various 
heterogeneous spread and adsorbed polymer films at the liquid-gas interface were studied by 
several methods of the dilational surface rheology and optical techniques. The dilational 
dynamic surface elasticity was measured in the frequency range from 0.005 up to 1000 Hz. The 
main conformational states of amphiphilic block copolymers at the liquid surface were 
determined. Most of the polyelectrolyte/surfactant adsorption films displayed similar main 
feature in spite of the difference in the chemical nature of polyelectrolytes and surfactants. An 
abrupt drop of the dynamic surface elasticity in a narrow concentration range is caused by the 
nano- and microparticle formation in the surface layer. This conclusion is also corroborated by 
the ellipsometry. The influence of various molecular characteristics on the concomitant 
conformational transitions and the corresponding relaxation times were estimated for spread and 
adsorbed surface films. The corresponding structural and kinetic models of the complex polymer 
adsorptions films were developed. It was shown that small additions of ionic surfactants can be 
used as probes of the protein surface structure and adsorption mechanism from protein solutions. 
This is true for the both non-globular and globular proteins. In the case of globular protein 
solutions the obtained results clearly show that the methods of surface dilational rheology give a 
possibility to investigate the protein unfolding in the surface layer. In the case of random coil 
proteins the local maxima of the kinetic dependency of the dynamic surface elasticity allow 
elucidations of the details of adsorption kinetics. For example, the new data on β-casein 
adsorption mechanism were obtained in the framework of the given project. The two local 
maxima of the surface elasticity kinetic dependence of β-casein solutions can be explained by a 
separation of relatively hydrophobic groups of the polypeptide chain during the slow process of 
protein adsorption. The developed method must be useful for the investigation of complex 
surface films containing various proteins and surfactants.  
 
 
  
Key words: polymer surface films, polymer/surfactant complexes, nanoparticles, 
microgels, dilational surface viscoelasticity, dynamic surface tension, 
polymer solutions, polyelectrolyte solutions, adsorption kinetics, 
adsorption films, surface layer structure  
 
 
 
 
 1
Content 
Preface 
Although aqueous polymer solutions are widely used in various branches of industry, any 
information on their surface properties have been rather scarce for many years. Only recently 
some powerful techniques of modern surface chemistry like neutron and X-ray reflectivity have 
been applied to adsorbed and spread polymer films with the aim to study the surface layer 
structure [1]. At the same time, the dynamic surface properties of these systems attracted less 
attention. Only recent application of the methods of surface rheology together with the 
complementary techniques to the adsorbed polymer and polymer/surfactant films allowed 
discovery of the complex conformational transitions in these systems leading to the formation of 
micro- and nanoparticles at the liquid-gas interface [2,3]. The main aim of the project consisted 
in the continuation of these studies and in a systematic investigation of the heterogeneous 
polymer and polymer/surfactant films using mainly the methods of mechanical relaxation 
spectrometry.  
In the framework of this project the adsorption and spread films of amphiphilic block 
copolymers, synthetic polyelectrolytes, polyelectrolyte/surfactant complexes, proteins and 
protein/surfactant complexes were studied. The main attention was paid to the range of 
parameters where micro- and nanoheterogeneous structures were formed at the liquid-gas 
interface with the aim of comparison between the systems of different chemical nature. The 
results indicated that the formation of micro- and nanoparticles is inherent in different mixed 
polyelectrolyte/surfactant adsorption films. That is why the polyelectrolyte/surfactant adsorption 
films proved to be the most important from the point of view of the given project. The obtained 
results are briefly expounded below with a special emphasis on the results of the third year of 
the project when different protein/surfactant complexes were investigated by the methods of 
surface rheology and optical methods were applied to the polyelectrolyte/surfactant surface 
films.     
 
Research project’s background and goals  
Among water-soluble polymers the macromolecules, which form intra and intermolecular 
aggregates in aqueous solutions, has probably the largest number of applications. First of all 
these are block copolymers containing relatively hydrophobic and hydrophilic blocks, for 
example, the copolymers of poly(ethyleneoxide) and poly(propyleneoxide) (PEO-PPO). Another 
important class of microheterogeneous aqueous polymer systems is solutions of complexes 
between polymers and surfactants, especially between polyelectrolytes and ionic surfactants. 
Many reviews and books covering different aspects of the latter systems are available [4-6].  
Although some important applications of polymer microheterogeneous systems 
(stabilization of colloids, preparation of microcapsules, modelling of bioprocesses, etc.) are 
connected mainly with their unique surface properties, the main attention has been paid until 
recently to the properties of bulk phases [4-6]. For many years the surface phenomena in 
polymeric systems have been studied almost only by the surface tension measurements [4,6]. 
Only recently the understanding of the structure of adsorbed polymer films has increased, 
 3
methods. In the former case we used a roughened glass plate and an electronic film balance 
produced by Max-Planck-Institute of Colloid and Interface science (Potsdam, Germany). In the 
latter case, a commercial instrument (PAT1 from Sinterface Technologies, Germany) was 
applied with the both configurations of pendent drop and emerging bubble. The pendent drop 
was formed at the tip of a PTFE capillary by a computer-driven dosing system in a closed glass 
cuvette, where a small portion of the solution under investigation was placed at the bottom in 
order to reduce drop evaporation. The same dosing system and PTFE capillary were used to 
form an emerging bubble in a glass cuvette filled with the solution. Drop (or bubble) images 
were acquired by a WV-BP310 B/W Panasonic CCD video camera and digitised with a National 
Instruments IMAQ PCI-1409 Monochrome Image Acquisition Board. The software (National 
Instruments LabView) allowed controlling the surface area of the drop and bubble as a function 
of time. Therefore, the same equipment was used to measure the complex dynamic surface 
elasticity. This quantity was also measured by a few different experimental techniques, which 
spanned the frequency range from 0.01 up to 700 Hz (the oscillating barrier methods, the 
methods of transverse and longitudinal surface waves). The corresponding equipment was 
constructed in St.Petersburg State University.  
The dilational dynamic surface elasticity ε was calculated according to the relation 
( ) Si ir ln/δδγεεωε =+=  (1) 
where δS is the surface area variation, δγ is the surface tension variation and ω is the angular 
frequency.  
A conventional PCSA (Polarizer-Compensator-Sample-Analyzer) null-ellipsometer set-up 
was used for the measurement of the ellipsometric angles as a function of surface age [14]. From 
the nulls of analyzer and polarizer two ellipsometric angles could be easily obtained. These 
angles characterize the polarization state of the reflected light, which depends on the properties 
of the reflecting surface. For a thin non-absorbing, plane-parallel, homogeneous and isotropic 
layer with the thickness less than the wavelength at the interface between two phases one can 
derive an algebraic complex relation between the ellipsometric angles, the refractive index of 
the film and the film thickness. Using the same assumption of a homogeneous and relatively 
thick (almost autonomous with respect to the coexisting phases) adsorption layer, one can 
calculate the adsorbed amount from the refractive index and the thickness of the layer. If the 
film is heterogeneous, these calculations give only average values. 
The adsorption and spread surface films were also transferred on a cellulose solid 
membrane by the Langmuir-Schaefer (LS) technique in order to analyze their structure. After 
the desired aging time in the Langmuir trough, the film was transferred to a solid support simply 
by touching the substrate to the water surface. In all of the cases the substrate was held parallel 
to the interface. A well-executed LS transfer can result in a deposition without deformation of 
the layer. Following film transfer, the substrate after was held in a vertical position, and excess 
solution was removed by bringing the edge into contact with a filter paper. After drying the 
sample was analyzed by the transmission electron microscopy (TEM).   
 
Research results and achievements 
The complex dynamic dilational elasticity of adsorbed and spread films of triblock 
 5
must approach the behavior of non-ionic polymer solutions. In this case the adsorption film has 
a loose structure with a large number of loops and tails protruding into the bulk phase. The 
surface elasticity is low. Fig. 2 illustrates this behaviour in the case of AMPS-NIPAM solutions 
in 1 M NaCl. If the polymer concentration is not less than 0.001 wt. %, the surface elasticity is 
less than 5 mN/m and almost constant. At lower concentrations the kinetic dependence is 
non-monotonous. The observed surface viscoelasticity almost coincides with that of non-ionic 
NIPAM solutions. The results for other polyelectrolyte solutions are different. First, the surface 
elasticity does not decrease at the addition of inorganic salt. Second, the addition of sodium 
chloride does not lead to an acceleration of the adsorption rate. This behaviour is abnormal. It 
contradicts the kinetic theory of adsorption and the accepted ideas on the adsorption film 
structure. These results can be explained if one assumes the formation of a rigid adsorption film 
structure and the formation of structured microdomains in the surface layer, for example, at the 
expense of hydrophobic interactions. Note that the surface viscoelasticity of PVPCl solutions has 
some peculiarities. This is a weak polyelectrolyte and the surface properties of its solutions 
depend strongly on pH. Nevertheless, the obtained results also indicate the microdomain 
formation at the surface.  
The main efforts have been directed to the investigation of adsorption films of 
polyelectrolyte/surfactant complexes, which display microheterogeneous structure. Application 
of the mechanical relaxation methods to the mixed adsorption films of PDMDAAC and sodium 
dodeylsulphate (SDS) showed that the dynamic surface elasticity takes high values even at very 
low concentrations of the both solutes, when the surface properties of both pure polymer and 
pure surfactant solutions separately are the same as the properties of water. This synergistic 
effect indicates strong interactions between the solutes in the surface layer. The kinetic 
dependencies of the surface elasticity of PDMDAAC/SDS solutions at low surfactant 
concentrations (< 10-4 M) are similar to the corresponding dependencies of pure polyelectrolytes. 
All the changes are slow, the adsorption film is elastic and the surface elasticity approaches high 
values up to 150 mN/m. If the SDS concentration increases at constant polymer content, the 
surface elasticity drops abruptly and gradually approaches zero after that (Fig. 3). This behavior 
was observed for most polyelectrolyte/surfactant solutions.   
The interpretation of the results is easier if one takes into account the corresponding data 
for mixed solutions of sodium polystyrenesulfonate (PSS) and dodecyltrimethylammonium 
bromide (DTAB) [2,3,16]. In this case the surface elasticity drops exactly in the range where the 
increase of the ellipticity indicates the formation of microparticles in the surface layer. The 
particles begin to form first at the surface and after that at higher surfactant concentrations in the 
bulk solution close to the concentration of charged PSS monomers. The same phenomena take 
place in the case of PDMDAAC/SDS solutions (Fig. 3) indicating the microparticle formation in 
the surface layer. The obtained results on the dynamic surface elasticity are not sufficient to 
explain the details of this loose surface structure but can be used to elucidate what happens at 
low surfactant concentrations and to examine the Goddard model of the surface structure of 
dilute polyelectrolyte/surfactant solutions [4]. The obtained results show that this model is not 
sufficient and one has to take into account the hydrophobic interactions between the polymer 
segments and probably between the surfactant tails. As a result, the adsorbed film may contain 
 7
two-dimensional film, which is formed at the early stages of the adsorption process, gradually 
transforms into a looser and thicker structure at the surface. With increasing surfactant 
concentration an abrupt drop of the surface elasticity close to the critical aggregation 
concentration can also indicate the formation of microparticles. The obtained results show that 
at relatively low surfactant concentrations the dynamic surface elasticity depends strongly on the 
properties of polyelectrolyte chains.  
The oscillating barrier method was also applied to spread films of PVPCl/SDS and 
PDMDAAC/SDS on an aqueous subphase. The surface properties of these films remain almost 
unchanged within a few hours after their formation. The dynamic surface elasticity of the spread 
films went through a local maximum at the compression but the corresponding changes were not 
as abrupt as in the case of adsorption films. This was explained by more gradual formation of 
the microparticles at the increase of surface density. The transferring of the films to a solid 
support and their subsequent examination by TEM confirmed this conclusion. At the same time 
the particles distribution in the spread films was usually more homogeneous and their size 
changed in more narrow limits than for adsorbed surface films. In the latter case the TEM 
images showed more irregular shapes of the particles and more chaotic distribution of them in 
the films.  
The dynamic surface properties were also measured for adsorbed and spread films of 
β-casein and β-lactoglobulun. The kinetic dependencies of the dynamic surface elasticity of 
β-casein solutions proved to be non-monotonic (Fig. 4). These dependencies are entirely 
different from the corresponding results for solutions of synthetic polyelectrolytes [11]. The 
surface properties of β-casein solutions cannot be determined only by the electrostatic 
interactions between the charged parts of the polypeptide chain. Both the kinetic and 
concentration dependencies of the dynamic surface elasticity remind the corresponding results 
for the solutions of block copolymers PEO-PPO-PEO. These dependencies are non-monotonic 
in the both cases and can be explained in a similar way. During the initial steps of β-casein 
adsorption the dynamic surface elasticity is determined by the surface pressure in accordance 
with the all-trains adsorption model. At the increase of surface pressure one can observe a local 
maximum of the surface elasticity, which is connected with the penetration of tails and loops of 
relatively hydrophilic parts of β-casein molecules into the subphase.  
It was shown for the first time that the kinetic dependencies of the dynamic surface elasticity 
exhibit the second maximum at the subsequent steps of adsorption. In this range of adsorption 
times the surface elasticity depends not only on the surface pressure but also on the adsorption 
rate and the viscoelastic behavior of the adsorption β-casein films proves to be different from 
the viscoelastic properties of spread films. The comparison of the dilational viscoelasticity of 
β-casein surface films with that of PEO-PPO-PEO films shows that one can connect the second 
maximum of the surface elasticity with the expulsion of the more hydrophobic parts of β-casein 
molecules into the subphase as loops and tails. One can assume that the formation of local 
hydrophobic regions as a result of hydrophobic interactions is more probable at slow adsorption. 
Therefore the tail and loop formation at the expense of the parts of protein molecule, which 
belong to these regions, is difficult and they begin to be displaced from the surface only at 
higher surface pressures beyond the second maximum. The segregation of more hydrophilic and 
 9
 
Discussions and suggestions 
The obtained results clearly indicate the formation of nano- and microparticles in the 
surface layers of polyelectrolyte/surfactant solutions. This proved to be rather general 
phenomenon, however, the concentration range where it can be observed, the rate of aggregate 
formation and the extent of influence on the dynamic surface properties depend on the chemical 
nature of the both polyelectrolyte and surfactant. The main parameters determining the surface 
properties and, consequently, the properties of aggregates are the surface charge density of the 
polymer chain and the extent of hydrophobicity of the polymer backbone. The characteristic 
parameters of the surfactant molecules influence the structural and dynamic properties of the 
polyelectrolyte/surfactant adsorption films to a less extent. 
The formation of nanoparticles in bulk polyelectrolyte/surfactant solutions was well known 
before the beginning of the given project. These particles have some particular applications, for 
example, at the preparation of ink for jet printers or as templates of metal nanoparticles [18]. 
However, the surface films at the liquid-gas interface have some advantages as a place of 
nanoparticles preparation. Firstly, only microquantities of the substances are necessary and only 
a microquantity of particles can be created, which is frequently an important condition. Secondly, 
the interface is characterized by special properties and thus can promote the formation of 
high-ordered structures of molecules or particles. These properties are frequently used in 
different branches of industry, because Langmuir – Blodgett and Langmuir - Shaefer methods 
allow the transference of the structured films from the liquid to a solid surface. Although the 
obtained results are mostly fundamental ones, they also have a value from the point of view of 
applications. The conditions and concentration ranges of the particle formation were determined 
together with the data on the kinetics of their formation. It was shown that the applied methods 
of surface rheology are highly sensitive to the structure and mechanism of relaxation processes 
in nano- and microheterogeneous surface films. The corresponding structural and kinetic models 
were developed.            
The results on protein and protein/surfactant adsorption films deserve special discussion. It 
was shown for the first time that small additions of ionic surfactants can be used as probes of the 
surface structure and adsorption mechanism. This is true for the both non-globular and globular 
proteins). In the case of globular protein solutions the obtained results clearly show that the 
methods of surface dilational rheology give a possibility to indicate the protein unfolding in the 
surface layer. In the case of random coil proteins the local maxima of the kinetic dependency of 
the dynamic surface elasticity allow elucidations of the details of adsorption kinetics. For 
example, the new data on β-casein adsorption mechanism were obtained in the framework of the 
given project. The main results of this project relate to well-known milk proteins, however, the 
developed methods will be also useful for other more complicated and less investigated protein 
systems. This is probably one of the main conclusions and the field of the surface dilational 
rheology of protein systems must be developed in the nearest future.      
Division of Tasks: The main tasks pf Russian researchers were measurements of the 
dilational surface elasticity and interpretation of the results. They also take part in the 
ellipsometric and TEM studies. The Taiwanese researchers measured mainly the dynamic 
 11
 
Figures 
 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
0
5
10
15
20
 
 
ε r, 
ε s,
 m
N
/m
π, mN/m
 
Fig. 1. Real (solid squares, empty circles) and imaginary (empty squares) parts of dynamic 
surface elasticity vs. surface pressure for PEO-PPO-PEO spread (squares) and adsorbed (circles) 
films. The line represents the static surface elasticity of spread PEO-PPO-PEO films.  
0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000 14000
0
10
20
30
40
50
ε r, 
m
N
/m
time, s
 
Fig. 2.  Kinetic dependencies of the real part of the dynamic surface elasticity of 
AMPS-NIPAM solutions in 1 M NaCl at polyelectrolyte concentrations of 0.0002 (diamonds), 
0.0005 (squares), 0.001 (triangles up) and 0.1 wt. % (triangles down). Lines are guides for the 
eye. 
 
 
Fig. 3.  The real (full circles) and imaginary (empty circles) parts of the dynamic surface 
elasticity of PDMDAAC/SDS solutions vs. surfactant concentration. Lines are guides for the 
eye. 
1E-6 1E-5 1E-4 1E-3 0,01
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
ε r ε
i, m
N
/m
c
s
, M
 13
 
合作研發成果統計表 
Statistic Data of the Join Research Cooperation 
【此部份僅作國科會內部參考，不對外公告】 
 
I. Number of Staff working in this joint project – the “staff type” including: 
principal investigator (PI), collaborating principal investigator (co-PI), assistant investigator, 
and postdoctoral research fellow. 
Staff Type Taiwan Side Russian Side 
PI and Co-PI Shi-Yow Lin 
Bing-Joe Hwang 
Boris Noskov 
Full-time research assistant  Alexandra Yakuninskaya
Alexandre Akentiev 
Part-time research assistant Alexey Bykov  
Postdoctoral Research Fellow  Galina Mudzhikova 
 
II. Joint publication (by the date of this report submitted) 
1. Scientific Journal Information for Papers Being Published or Accepted 
Title of Paper Name of Journal SCI/EI /SSCI 
Impact 
Factor 
Volume
No. Date
Dilational Viscoelasticity of 
PEO-PPO-PEO Triblock Copolymer 
Films at the Air-Water Interface in the 
Range of High Surface Pressures 
Langmuir SCI/EI 3.902 V. 22,
No 6 
02.2006
Dynamic Surface Elasticity of 
Polyelectolyte/Surfactant Adsorption 
Films at the Air/Water Interface: Dodecyl 
-trimethylammonium Bromide and 
Copolymer of Sodium 2-acrylamido 
-2-methyl-1-propansulfonate with 
N-isopropylacrylamide 
J. Colloid Interface Sci  
SCI/EI 2.233 
V301,
No 2
05.2006
Dynamic Properties of Adsorption Films 
of Copolymer of N-isopropylacrylamide 
and Sodium 2-acrylamide-2-methyl-1- 
propansulfonate 
Colloid-J (Russian) SCI 0.611 
V 69,
No 4
05.2007
Dynamic Surface Properties of 
Polyelectrolyte/Surfactant Adsorption 
Films at the Air/Water Interface: 
Polydiallyl- dimethylammonium Chloride 
and Sodium Dodecylsulfate 
Langmuir SCI/EI 3.902 V. 23
No 19
09.2007
Dynamic Surface Elasticity of β-casein 
Solutions in the Course of Adsorption 
Process 
J. Phys. Chem. C SCI/EI ~ 4 V.111,
No 45
09.2007
 15
 
III. Joint application for Patent rights or Technology transfer  
□ Patent  □  Technology transfer 
Name of Invention or Technology  
Technology Description (max. 
200 words) 
 
Technique Features  
Applicable Industry or Potential 
Product for Commercialization 
 
Patent Issued Country  
Patent Period  
Note: please don’t describe the major content if you haven’t got the patent issued. 
 
IV. Data of Personnel Exchange 
1. Visiting Russia from Taiwan Research Team 
Date of Visiting Main Task and Result Total member of visiting team 
No. of Young 
researchers 
involved (aged 40 
or lower) 
 
2006.06.15 –2006.06.22
Development of the research 
plans, discussion of the first 
results, investigation of the 
experimental equipment. New 
technologies were acquired. 
 
2 
 
2007.01.15–2007.02.10 Experimental Work 1 1 
2007.08.01-2008.01.31 Experimental Work 1 1 
 
2. Visiting Taiwan from Russian Research Team 
Date of Visiting Main Task and Result Total member of visiting team 
No. of Young 
researchers 
involved (aged 40 
or lower) 
2007.02.03 - 
2007.02.10 
Discussion of the research results 
and further plans. 
A joint paper was prepared.  
1  
 
V. Pattern of Cooperative Research 
  ■  Data collection sharing 
■  Research information exchange 
