The Implementation of an RFID Information Device Maintain System on 
Mobile Device with XDNA Platform 
 
徐偉智 鄭卓元 
國立高雄第一科技大學(高雄市楠梓區卓越路2號) 
u9654802@ccms.nkfust.edu.tw 
 
摘要 
本論文研究了維修系統和管理系統的整體運作，從中瞭解其系統可能會需要的一些
特殊功能來方便使用者使用，如:離線作業的機制、自動更新Client端應用程式和結合
RFID的快速、正確和便利的特性；而平台上選擇跨越科技所獨立研發的專利技術
XDNA(Extended Distributed Network Architecture)網路運算平台，是以Java為基底，利用
OpenSource資源並使用MVC開發架構以及結合支援眾多周邊設備等，提供完整技術支援
的主從式精簡型分散式系統開發平台，但由於其平台的framework對於行動裝置的硬體
資源來說太過於龐大，所以本論文也研究了XDNA平台的運作模式和架構，並在無法引
用其framework的狀況下將XDNA平台於嵌入式(行動)裝置上實作出來。 
 
Abstract 
This paper studies the management of the maintenance system and the overall operation of the system. 
From this to understand the system may requires some special features to facilitate the users, such as: off-line 
operation of the mechanism, automatic updates client-side applications and the fast combination of RFID which 
has the characteristics of the correct and convenient. The choose to cross-platform technology developed by 
independent technology XDNA (Extended Distributed Network Architecture) network computing platform, Java 
is the basement, and also the use of OpenSource development of resources, the use of MVC architecture and 
support many peripheral devices combined so on. It provides a complete technical support to streamline the 
master-slave type distributed system development platform. However, the framework for the mobile devices, the 
hard resources is too large. So this paper also studies the mode of operation XDNA platform and architecture and 
it shows on XDNA platform embedded (Operation) which can not be invoked in the conditions of the 
framework. 
 
Keywords：RFID、XDNA、Mobile Device、Java、C# 
 
1. Introduction 
 
1.1 Research Background and Motivation 
The motive of this study is due to the sale of IT 
equipment to a large number of IT companies, schools, 
institutions or individual units, the specifications of the 
device file, maintenance repair records and the handling 
is still a lot of staff input data mining of semi-E-way. 
Therefore, I intend to approach the use of RFID to 
replace staff input, output or transfer of information, and 
coupled with the existing hand-held devices and the 
prevalence of wireless networks; it was decided to 
achieve this system in hand-held devices to let the users 
who have the hand-held RFID devices can manage 
information of all kinds of equipment instantaneously, 
and the development of a system can be avoided above 
the original manual of human error will occur and 
information transfer is not synchronized. Also, it can 
save on labor costs. 
Although there have been many similar 
management systems have been developed, but most of 
them are using Client-side remote database directly to do 
with the design of communication and they are 
developed by a single language. But today's embedded 
platform or the operating system platform of action is so 
much; if we work in different platforms, we must also 
consider the issue of transplantation. The Java platform 
is XDNA platform, so in its portability and flexibility in 
a lot of cross-state. If the realization of its structure 
during the operation platform, the platform will increase 
the application of extensive XDNA can confirm XDNA 
platform on mobile devices development is feasible. 
 In this study, not only in the system 
development XDNA platform used (SoA architecture) to 
simplify the development process, program modules to 
enhance the possibility of repeated use, and focus on the 
general system is not the same type of functions, such as: 
offline synchronization mechanism, NTP revised 
mechanism, the software auto-update mechanism, 
combined with the management of JSP to write the 
back-end interface to achieve the integrity of the system. 
It is worth mentioning that this study introduce the 
XDNA5.1 and the XDNA5.2 platform are done out of 
this system and the benefits can be reduced the 
complexity in the construction of server computer 
 
Figure3. The content of the modules in Application 
Framework[1] 
 
Service Integration Framework 
XDNA has the characteristic in integrating enriched 
Web service resource and additional package expanded 
the function of the users. As long as the package and 
other resources in following with the standard 
specifications XDNA Client slogan , the XDNA Client 
can be expanded in line with the demands of the users. 
Figure4 shows the example of service integration 
framework. 
 
Figure4. the content of modules in the Service 
Integration Framework[1] 
 
Unify Collaboration Framework 
In the framework of collaborative development, 
Transtep Technology Inc. provides the XDNA 
technology information database for developers to work 
together to develop the own XDNA system. It usually 
includes: UML system specifications, XDNA software 
development tools, the necessary components of XDNA, 
such as components group. So this framework as follows, 
includes the UML system specifications, XDNA 
software development tools and components group and 
the education of development etc. 
 
Figure5. the content of the module in Unify 
collaboration Framework[1] 
 
2.2 Embedded Platform 
 
According to the definition of Association of Electrical 
Engineers in England【Embedded platform system is a 
device in control, surveillance or auxiliary equipment, 
machinery or even the operation of the device to 
factory.】 It is a synthesis of computer software and 
hardware, and it particular emphasizes the principle of
『 tailored 』which is based on a certain special purpose 
and we will develop a different from system for this 
special purpose. It also called customization (Customize). 
In the emerging embedded system products, there is a 
common cell phone, PDA, GPS, Set-Top-Box or 
embedded server and thin client and so on. 
In the emerging embedded system, there are common 
products 
(1) Mobile phone 
(2) Personal Digital assistant devices (PDA, 
Personal Digital Assistant) 
(3) Global Positioning System 
(4) Digital TV Set-Top-Box 
(5) Embedded Server 
(6) Thin Client etc. 
 
Figure6. The application of the embedded system[2] 
 
The Design Considerations of the Embedded 
System 
(1)  The embedded system uses in many different 
professional areas, so the process of the development 
and general development of personal computer or the 
workstation program is different. 
(2)  The embedded system program need to closely 
with the different products and hardware to have the 
demanded significant change. And the embedded 
computing field has to provide several special 
functions to let the embedded system has the 
developed threshold. It includes: 
 Complex algorithm 
The operation of the microprocessor might be 
complex, like the microprocessor which control the 
automobile engine 
 User Interface 
Because the microprocessor has the ability to 
handle the complex functions, relatively speaking, 
the menu has many portfolio variations, such as 
GPS presented the complex of the user interface.  
(3)  Embedded computing emphasis on the time limits, 
so it must achieve: 
 Immediately Functions 
 
Figure7. RFID System Chart[4] 
 
Types of RFID Tag 
RFID Tags are divided into three different types, 
including passive, semi-passive (also called semi-passive) 
and active. 
Passive 
Passive tags have no internal supplied power. Its internal 
circuit drives through receiving the electromagnetic 
wave. The electromagnetic wave is sent from the RFID 
reader. When the tag receives sufficient strength signal, 
it can be sent to the data reader. These data include not 
only the ID number (the world's only labeled ID), could 
also include a data which could pre-existing in the labels 
of EEPROM. 
Due to the passive tags have advantages like low cost, 
compact size and the no power. Currently, the RFID tags 
on the market are mainly passive. 
Semi-passive 
Generally specking, semi-passive tags have two tasks: 
(1)  Receiving the electromagnetic from the reader to 
drive the label IC 
(2)  When the label returns the signals, it needs to 
switch by the impedance of the antenna to have 
changes in 0 and 1.  
The problem is if you want a best return efficiency, the 
antenna impedance need to be designed in 「open-and 
short- circuit」. But this would let the signal entirely 
reflex and the label IC can not receive it. The 
semi-passive tag is for solving this problem. 
Semi-passive tag is similar to the passive one. But it has 
one more small battery and the power can drive the label 
IC, to let the IC in the working condition. The advantage 
is that the antenna do not need to govern the task of 
receiving the electromagnetic and it can fully be used on 
the returning the signals. Comparing with the passive tag, 
the semi-passive tag has faster speed and the better 
efficiency. 
Active 
The difference with passive and semi-passive is 
that active tags have their own internal supplied power to 
supply the internal IC power which required generating 
the external signal. In general, active tags have a longer 
reading distance and larger memory storage capacity can 
be used to store the additional information sends by the 
readers. 
 
Figure8 Diagram of the operation of RFID 
passive tags[4] 
 
RFID Technology and Performance Parameter 
The radio frequency identification tag is the key of 
the current radio frequency identification technology. 
RFID can store information on a certain capacity and a 
certain amount of information processing function. The 
reading and writing device through the wireless signals 
exchange the information with labels by a certain degree 
of data transfer rate. According to the technology, the 
working distance can be used from number of 
centimeters to 1 kilometer and so on. 
The appearance of the identification label is 
decided by the antenna and the antenna also depends on 
working frequency and the distance requirement. There 
are currently four frequency tags are common in use. 
They are divided by their wireless frequency; low 
frequency tags (125 or 134.2 KHz), high frequency tags 
(13.56 MHz), ultrahigh frequency tags (868~956 MHz) 
and the microwave tags (2.45 GHz). Because of there are 
no global norm for the ultrahigh frequency tags, this kind 
of tags still can not use in global. And the application of 
ultrahigh frequency has the most attention of people. 
This tag mainly applies in the logistic fields. The higher 
the frequency, the greater the distance, the higher data 
transfer rate, the size of identification tags can be done 
on a smaller, but the higher cost. At present, for the 
consumer-oriented requirements, the identification label 
size is generally by the credit card or bar code. 
In the beginning of 2005, the price of each tag is 
still above 30 euro cents. In large quantities (more than 
one billion) production in the price of RFID tags is 
expected to below 10 euro cents in 2008. 
In view of between the tags and the reading and 
writing devices do no have to establish the mechanical or 
optical contact, the status of the password technology in 
the field of radio frequency identification technology is 
bound to increase. With the popularity of radio 
frequency identification, the different manufacturers of 
labels and read and write compatibility between devices 
will also become a concern.  
 In addition, the life time of usage, the using 
environment and the reliability are another important 
parameter. 
 Radio frequency identification technology also 
includes a complete set of information technology basic 
facilities, including: 
 Radio frequency identification tags, also known as 
RF tags and electronic tags. They are mainly 
 
 
 
3. The development of XDNA on PDA 
3.1 Design Stage 
Functional Objectives 
 It can let the maintenance Engineer to put the new 
equipment information to the database through the 
RFID tag. 
 It Provides an off-line mechanism operations. And 
it can reach the local client and the server-side 
database in synchronization function through the 
determination of network condition and the time 
judgment of NTP servers. 
 It can access the importation field data of the IT 
equipment in the RFID Tag 
 Automatic update implementation on Client-side 
which can update the package automatically. 
Interface Objectives 
 RMS sub-system needs to be able to receive the 
information from the RFID Tag. 
 IDMS transfers the Tag information from RMS to 
the XDNA standard XML communication package 
format; and communicates with the Server. The 
equipment information will be presented on the 
screen.  
 RFID IMS needs to provide users to operate the 
system by touch directly way.  
Performance Objective: 
  The time of reading each RFID Tag data is within 
0.5 seconds.  
Objective Environment 
Any mobile device has Windows Mobile system and the 
CF interface with external RFID reader. 
 
The structure of the System 
(1) Operating concept 
Maintenance Engineer uses the PDA to do the 
operation. After sign in to the IDAS, the maintenance 
engineer can check the information of the device, add the 
equipment information and also every time, it can revise 
and record immediately after the information equipment 
has the maintenance. The back-end database records the 
related information of the equipment information which 
sold by the computer company, which information will 
provide the reference for maintenance engineers with the 
information system in data interpretation. The 
establishment of the back-end database generated by the 
back-end manager input, and there is a need to provide a 
personnel management interface for database 
maintenance operation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure9.Operation Concept Diagram 
 
(2) System Overview 
The system is divided into eight main sections, 
RFID Management System (RMS 1.1.0), information 
equipment management system (IDMS 1.2.0), 
maintenance of the course record (MLS 1.3.0), offline 
synchronization system (OOSS 1.4 .0), information 
equipment, adding systems (IDAS 1.5.0), JSP back-end 
management system (JBMS 1.6.0), XDNA Service 
Module (XSM 1.7.0) and Web Server (WS 1.8.0) and so 
on. The interface of the sub - systems and interactive 
map is shown in Figure10. 
 
RMS mainly provides a obtain information of RFID 
reader to RFID Tag in the mobile device, like PDA.IDM 
mainly provides, in the PDA, through the RFID Tag ID 
to the server-side access the equipment information. 
MLS provides the maintenance engineer to do the 
changing records in equipment maintenance on mobile 
devices in PDA.OOSS provides for automatic 
identification network condition to decide whether to 
activate the operating off-line mechanism of mobile 
device in PDA. IDAS provides for maintenance engineer 
to add new equipment information and corresponding 
RFID code to the server database on the provider of 
mobile devices in the PDA.  
The main use of the above sub-systems is the 
maintenance engineer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RFID IMS 
IDAS 
Datab
ase 
engineer 
instead of the current system time. 
 
RFID Reading Device Driver 
The RFID device of this study is using the CF 
interface. The way of data transmission is by RS232 so 
if we want to control this device, we need to use the 
SerialPort to drive. 
 
4. The Integrated development of JSP 
Web Service and XDNA Service 
4.1 Design Stage 
Functional Objective 
 This system provide the manager of the 
company use the back-end computer to do 
the changes, manage and upload Client 
updating package in the database by the 
interface of web page. 
Interface Objective 
 It should provide users to operate this 
sub-system in using keyboard and mouse 
and present the program interface in web 
page. 
Efficient Objective 
 The time in accessing the related equipment 
information through network to the back-end 
database should within 5 seconds. 
【The efficiency is decided by the network 
condition】 
Objective Environment 
Any device has the web browser. 
 
The structure of the System 
(1) Operating concept 
The back-end administrator logs in the JSP 
Back-end management system (JBMS) through the Web 
interface. And through this system, the administrator can 
check the equipment information, add the equipment 
information, maintain the database and manage the user 
permission. 
 
     
     
 
 
 
Figure12. Operating Concept Chart 
 
 
(2)   System overview 
JBMS mainly provides a web page interface to the 
back-end administrator of company to do the 
change of database. XSM mainly have the SOAP 
standard mechanism communication with the 
client side of PDA in order to reach the goal of 
database storage. WS mainly presents the result of 
JBMS on the browser. 
 
(3)   Analysis of user case 
 
Figure13.The use case of Back-end 
Administrator 
 
4.2 Implementation Stage 
 
XDNA Service Module 
 XDNA Service Module in this study mainly 
communicates with PostgreSQL. Due to the advantage 
of XDNA structure is it is easy to complete the 
development when introducing the Framework of 
XDNA in developing XDNA Service. 
JSP Dynamic Web Page 
 There is Jetty Web Server in XDNA 5.2, in this 
study; using the JSP to develop the back-end 
management system and there are three parts in this 
system: 
 
(1) Access the database from JDBC directly 
In this way, JDBC access the database directly by using 
the connecting word of PostgreSQL  
(2) Access database through XDNA Service  
Using XDNA Service as an intermediary program to 
access the database, it is because in the ID management, 
it should integrate with the built-in ID in XDNA. And 
XDNA will do MD5 encoding when managing the user’s 
password. By this way, it can exempt the encryption by 
own and XDNA Service will complete this part 
automatically. 
(3)  Upload updating package 
       By the management of permission of ID, it 
can let the administrator upload the new PDA side 
Client package to a fixed position through the 
web page interface. And it can let the Client 
application program download the latest package 
when updating automatically. 
Uploading the updating package of Client side: 
<%@ page import="com.jspsmart.upload.*"%> 
 
try 
  { 
 
  
 mySmartUpload.initialize(pageContext);  
  
 mySmartUpload.service(request,response);  
   mySmartUpload.upload();  
   String 
fn=fn=mySmartUpload.getFiles().getFile(0).getFileNam
e(); 
RFID IMS 
JBM
S 
Datab
ase 
Manager 
