I. INTRODUCTION
In this project, we consider asynchronous frequency-
hop/spread-spectrum multiple access (FH/SSMA) networks in
which each user employs noncoherent M -ary frequency shift
keying (MFSK) modulation to transmit one M -ary symbol per
hop. In these asynchronous networks, the interfering signals
are not orthogonal at the receiver due to random delays of
different users. Thus, an interfering signal arriving at a non-
coherent receiver with a nonzero delay will affect the outputs
of all the M correlators in the receiver which is called the
multiple-access interference (MAI). Forward error correction
codes provide an effective mean to combat the effects of
MAI. Most of the previous work on coded asynchronous
FH/SSMA networks has focused on error correction codes
with hard-decision decoding, while error correction codes with
soft-decision decoding have received relatively little attention.
However, hard-decision processes lose information and con-
sequently may compromise receiver performance.
Most recently in [1], the idea of soft-decision decoding has
been applied to the asynchronous FH/SSMA networks with
BFSK modulation. In this project, we investigate soft-decision
decoding for asynchronous FH/SSMA networks with MFSK
modulation, M 6= 2. We consider soft-decision decoded binary
convolutional codes and turbo codes, both with and without
bit-interleaving. For each coding scheme, various soft metrics
are evaluated to find those suitable for the networks. Com-
parison is made between the performances of the proposed
coding schemes using soft-decision decoding and RS codes
using hard-decision decoding. It is found that even though
the size of code alphabet of binary convolutional codes and
binary turbo codes does not match the modulation order
M , the asynchronous FH/SSMA networks employing soft-
decision decoded binary convolutional codes or turbo codes
without bit-interleaving can support much more users than
those employing hard-decision decoded RS codes.
II. SYSTEM MODEL
The asynchronous FH/SSMA networks considered here are
similar to those in [2]. In these network, U transmitters and U
receivers are connected in a pairwise topology. Each transmit-
ter communicates with its receiver using error correction codes
and frequency-hopping with MFSK modulation. We focus on
soft-decision decoded convolutional codes and turbo codes for
error correction. The turbo code considered in this project is
the parallel concatenation of two identical recursive systematic
convolutional (RSC) codes (henceforth denoted as component
codes) connected via an interleaver.
A. Packet Encoding and Transmission
At the transmitters, each data sequence is encoded by
error correction codes (convolutional codes or turbo codes)
and then interleaved (bit-interleaved or symbol-interleaved) to
form a packet. Here, bit-interleaving means that binary coded
sequences are first randomly interleaved and then mapped
into sequences of M -ary symbols, while symbol-interleaving
means that binary coded sequences are first mapped into
sequences of M -ary symbols and then randomly interleaved.
We consider four coding schemes in this project.
1) Convolutional code with bit-interleaving (CC-BI)
scheme: The binary convolutional-coded sequences are
bit-interleaved before modulation.
2) Convolutional code with symbol-interleaving (CC-SI)
scheme: The binary convolutional-coded sequences are
symbol-interleaved before modulation. Let r be the code
rate of the convolutional code. In this scheme, the
convolutional code can be viewed as an (n, k) binary
convolutional code, in the encoder of which a data block
of length k = r log
2
M bits is fed into shift registers at
each instant of time, and n = log
2
M coded bits, which
are mapped into an M -ary coded symbol, are calculated.
3) Turbo code with bit-interleaving (TC-BI) scheme: The
interleaver between the two component codes is a ran-
dom bit-interleaver, and each turbo-coded sequence is
bit-interleaved before modulation.
4) Turbo code with symbol-interleaving (TC-SI) scheme:
Each component-coded sequence is symbol-interleaved
before modulation. Thus, each component code can be
viewed as an (n′, k′) convolutional code with n′ =
log
2
M and k′ = r′ log
2
M , where r′ is the code
rate of the component codes. Moreover, in the turbo
encoder, the interleaver between the two component
codes is a random block-interleaver, which divides the
data sequence into blocks of length k′ and interleaves
the blocks.
The spread-spectrum bandwidth is divided into q equal-
width frequency slots, each of which consists of M tones of
MFSK modulation. The packets are first fed into an MFSK
modulator. During each hop interval T , an MFSK modulated
signal is shifted to one of the q frequency slots according
to the hopping pattern and transmitted. The hopping patterns
are modeled by sequences of independent random variables
that are uniformly distributed over all q frequency slots. At
baseband, the MFSK frequencies allotted to the M tones
are `/THz, ` = 0, 1, 2, . . . ,M − 1, such that orthogonality
between MFSK signals is maintained under noncoherent de-
modulation. Moreover, we assume that guard bands between
neighboring frequency slots are wide enough such that signals
transmitted in different frequency slots do not interfere with
each other. In other words, the intended transmitter’s signal is
“hit” only by those transmitters who transmit their signals in
the same frequency slot. We will refer to these transmitters as
interferers from now on. Transmission occurs over a channel
that includes Rayleigh fading, thermal noise, and MAI.
B. Demodulation
Assume that the hopping pattern of the receiver is perfectly
synchronized with the intended transmitter. Let transmitter 1
be the intended transmitter. The complex baseband equivalent
of the dehopped signal for the ith hop interval [iT, (i + 1)T ]
2
10-1
10-2
10-3
10-4
10-5
 0  20  40  60  80  100
bit
 e
rro
r r
at
e
number of transmitter and receiver pairs, U
ratio-statistic (c=35)
product (c=7)
self-normalized (c=1)
Fig. 1. Bit error rates for the CC-BI scheme. Eb/N0 = 25dB.
10-1
10-2
10-3
10-4
10-5
 0  20  40  60  80  100
bit
 e
rro
r r
at
e
number of transmitter and receiver pairs, U
ratio-statistic (c=5)
product (c=2)
self-normalized (c=7)
Fig. 2. Bit error rates for the TC-BI scheme. Eb/N0 = 25dB.
not consecutive coded bits. Thus, the Viterbi decoder in the
CC-BI scheme and the MAP decoder in the TC-BI scheme use
bit metric (given in (6)) and likelihood function (given in (5))
for each coded bit to recover the transmitted data, respectively.
III. RESULTS
In this section, rate-1/3 convolutional code is used in the
CC-BI and CC-SI schemes, rate-1/3 turbo code is used in
the TC-BI and TC-SI schemes, q = 50 frequency slots, and
M = 64. The rate-1/3 convolutional code is the binary
convolutional code with memory six and octal generator
(133, 165, 171). Both component codes in the rate-1/3 turbo
code are binary RSC codes with memory four and octal
generator (23, 35). In the turbo encoder, each data sequence
d¯ = (d1, d2, d3, . . .) is encoded into four output streams:
the data bits d¯ = (d1, d2, d3, . . .), the interleaved data bits
d¯∗ = (d∗
1
, d∗
2
, d∗
3
, . . .), the redundancies of the first com-
ponent code p¯ = (p1, p2, p3, . . .), and the redundancies of
the second component code q¯ = (q1, q2, q3, . . .). The rate-
1/3 turbo-coded sequence is composed of two rate-2/3 punc-
tured RSC-coded sequences (d1, p1, d2, d3, p3, d4, . . .) and
(d∗
1
, d∗
2
, q2, d
∗
3
, d∗
4
, q4, . . .). Random interleavers with length of
360 bits are used for simulation results. Note that when the
robust soft metrics are employed in the CC-BI, TC-BI, and
TC-SI schemes, the performances of the soft-decision decoders
10-1
10-2
10-3
10-4
10-5
 0  50  100  150  200  250  300  350  400
bit
 e
rro
r r
at
e
number of transmitter and receiver pairs, U
ratio-statistic
product
self-normalized
Fig. 3. Bit error rates for the CC-SI scheme. Eb/N0 = 25dB.
10-1
10-2
10-3
10-4
10-5
 0  50  100  150  200  250  300  350  400
bit
 e
rro
r r
at
e
number of transmitter and receiver pairs, U
ratio-statistic (c=5)
product (c=2)
self-normalized (c=35)
Fig. 4. Bit error rates for the TC-SI scheme. Eb/N0 = 25dB.
are affected by the choice of the constant c in (4). Thus, in this
section, the constant c is optimized for each coding scheme,
except the CC-SI scheme, and each robust soft metric.
First, we compare the performances of soft metrics in all
four coding schemes. Figs. 1-4 plot the bit error rates versus
the number of transmitters for the CC-BI, TC-BI, CC-SI,
and TC-SI schemes, respectively, with Eb/N0 = 25dB. For
all four coding schemes, the product metric achieves the
best performance among the metrics considered. We further
compare the bit error rates of the four coding schemes using
product metric in Fig. 5. We observe that the coding schemes
with symbol interleaving (the TC-SI and CC-SI schemes) sig-
nificantly outperform the coding schemes with bit-interleaving
(the TC-BI and CC-BI schemes); moreover, the TC-SI scheme
achieves the best performance among all coding schemes. In
fact, these observations are true not only for coding schemes
using product metric but also true for coding schemes using
the other soft metrics.
We now compare the performances of the four coding
schemes using soft-decision decoding with RS codes using
hard-decision decoding. In this project, the (60, 20) RS code
over GF(64) with code rate 1/3 is considered. The packet
error rates of the four proposed coding schemes with product
metric and the RS code with errors-only decoding [2] are
plotted in Fig. 6 with packet length 360 bits. From Fig. 6, we
4
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                         96  年  8 月  4 日 
報告人姓名 劉玉蓀 服務機構
及職稱 
國立臺北科技大學電子系教授 
時間 
會議地點 
民國 95 年 12 月 12 日 至 
民國 95 年 12 月 15 日 
日本鳥取縣米子市  
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 95-2221-E-027-020 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 2006 國際智慧型訊號處理及通訊系統會議 
(英文) 2006 International Symposium on Intelligent Signal Processing and 
      Communication Systems (ISPACS 2006) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
1. (中文) 應用軟式解碼於非同步跳頻展頻多工通訊系統 
    (英文) Soft-Decision Decoding in Asynchronous FH/SSMA Networks 
2. (中文) ADSL 系統的分散式動態頻譜管理運算法 
      (英文) Distributed Dynamic Spectrum Management Algorithm for  
            Mixed ADSL CO/RT Deployments 
內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
2006國際智慧型訊號處理及通訊系統會議為亞太區域訊號處理及通訊學
界的一大盛事，本次會議共計約有360篇論文發表。本人於12月11日出發到日
本鳥取縣米子市與會，共發表兩篇論文，12月15日下午回國。 
二、與會心得 
會議主軸是訊號處理及通訊系統最新研究成果及未來發展趨勢。今年會議
計有台灣、韓國、大陸、日本、澳大利亞、香港等地專家學者參加，進行論文
交流。會中邀請多位學界龍頭發表對未來無線通訊技術趨勢的看法及有潛力的
最新技術。會場中除了有來自各地的學術研究人員也有許多企業中的R&D的工
程師。來自世界各地學者及工程師當面討論最新研究成果，獲得諸多建議與經
驗 。 本 次 發 表 的 兩 篇 論 文 ， 其 中 一 篇 論 文 為 本 計 畫 ( 計 畫 NSC 
95-2221-E-027-020)的研究成果，另外一篇論文研究ADSL系統的分散式動態頻
譜管理運算法。此兩篇論文，在會議中得到諸多建議，參酌建議後修改論文，
投稿IEICE期刊，已被IEICE接受 
三、建議 
台灣應可多申請辦理該類大型國際研討會，除可刺激國內學術研究發展，
更可以提昇台灣國際能見度及學術交流與水準。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
2006國際智慧型訊號處理及通訊系統會議論文集光碟片。 
五、其他 
感謝國科會計畫NSC 95-2221-E-027-020之經費補助，使得本研究得以順利
進行，以及成果能至國外發表。 
 
附
件
三
 


0 50 100 150 200 250 300
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
H11
H22
H12
H21
                 
Fig. 2   Typical  transfer functions. The CO-based line and the RT-based line 
are 15 kft and 12 kft, respectively, and the RT is located 10 kft from the CO. 
Fig. 3   Rate regions of the IW and the MIW algorithms. The CO-based line 
and the RT-based line are 15 kft and 12 kft, respectively, and the RT is 
located 10 kft from the CO. 
(2) by deriving the water-filling spectrum.  Then, the RT- 
located transmitter updates its power allocation     to  
maximize its own data rate    in (3) by deriving the water-
filling spectrum.  Both transmitters take turns going through 
the water-filling process repeatedly until the process 
converges.  In the outer stage, each transmitter adjusts its total 
power based on the outcome of the inner stage.  At the end of 
each inner iterative water-filling stage, if a transmitter’s data 
rate is below its target rate, it increases its total power, unless 
its total power already reaches the maximum power limit.  If a 
transmitter’s data rate is much above its target rate, it 
decreases its total power.  After the power adjustments, the 
inner iterative water-filling process restarts.  The outer stage 
stops only when both transmitters achieve their target rates.  
    In the mixed CO/RT deployment, the CO-based line suffers 
strong downstream interference from the RT-based line.  Thus, 
in order to ensure that a certain minimal service is provided on 
the CO-based line, the IW algorithm decreases theʳ total power  
Fig. 4   Power allocation on the CO-based line. 
Fig. 5   Power allocation on the RT-based line. 
of the RT-based line to reduce interference.  In many cases,  
the CO-based line occupies only low-frequency carriers where 
the channel attenuation is small.  Thus, if instead of lowering 
the total power of the RT-based line, the algorithm shifts the 
power allocation of the RT-based line toward high-frequency 
carriers which are not used by the CO-based line, the data rate 
of the RT-based line can be increased with no degradation to 
the CO-base service.  This observation leads to the MIW 
algorithm. 
III. MODIFY ITERATIVE WATER-FILLING
The MIW algorithm also runs in two stages.  Let     ,       aa    
be the set of available carriers for transmitter i .  At the 
beginning of MIW, let          for all i .  The inner stage is an 
iterative water-filling process, in which each transmitter 
i allocates maximum power        only to those carriers in    .  
In other word, transmitters take turns deriving theʳwater-filling 
spectrumʳ in (2) and (3) repeatedly with               and the carrier 
Index of carrier, k 
 d
B
  
  
  
rate for CO-based line, Mbps  
 r
at
e 
fo
r 
R
T
-b
as
ed
 l
in
e,
 M
b
p
s 
  
  
  
frequency, MHz  
 P
S
D
, 
d
B
m
/H
z 
  
  
  
frequency, MHz  
 P
S
D
, 
d
B
m
/H
z 
  
  
  
CAi ⊆
maxP
maxPPi =
iA
CAi =
)(2 kP
2R
iA
68% 
