Introduction 
Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging (MRSI) provides spatial distribution of chemical 
shifts [1, 2]. As traditionally implemented with phase-encoding [3], it is very time consuming 
requiring as many repetitions as there are voxels in the image, e.g. the acquisition time for a 3D 
experiment is given by RzyxA TNNNT = , where Nx, Ny and Nz are the dimensions of the spatial 
grid and TR is the repetition time. As a consequence, MRSI is usually restricted to low spatial 
resolution and single slice acquisition in clinical practice. The development of fast MRSI 
methods that enable whole brain coverage with high spatial resolution remains a major challenge 
in MRSI research. Many methods have been developed to provide faster spatial-spectral 
encoding [4], such as echo-planar techniques that allow for simultaneous spatial-spectral 
encoding using time-varying gradients [5]. Proton-Echo-Planar-Spectroscopic-Imaging (PEPSI) 
[6-7] is an implementation of this technique with a trapezoidal readout gradient for simultaneous 
encoding of one spatial dimension (x) and the spectral dimension (f) providing a net acceleration 
of Nx over the conventional phase-encoding method with comparable signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) 
per unit time and unit volume [8]. However, 3D-PEPSI is still very time consuming due to 
phase-encoding along the third spatial dimension.  
Accelerated spatial encoding can be accomplished using parallel imaging techniques [9-10], 
where subsampled k-space data is acquired using multiple receive coils with spatially-varying 
reception profiles. The knowledge of the spatially-varying coil sensitivity profiles allows for 
reconstruction of subsampled data. Acceleration is obtained at the expense of SNR reduction in 
the reconstructed image. Sensitivity-encoding (SENSE) [11] parallel imaging method has been 
applied to accelerate phase-encoded [12] and turbo-spin-echo (TSE) MRSI [13]. Even though 
SENSE reconstruction is applied in the same way as in MRI for each spectral point of the MRSI 
elements to increase sensitivity and disparate coil sensitivity encoding along all spatial 
dimensions [25-26].  
The use of 2D acceleration combined with an array coil with a large number of elements is 
expected to provide high acceleration capability for 3D encoding. For example, accelerations 
factors as high as 16 were demonstrated in vivo for imaging experiments using 32-element arrays 
designed for multidimensional spatial encoding [25,26].  Moreover; in contrast to single surface 
coils, large array coils also provide an improved depth penetration for volumetric applications 
[27-28]. 
This work aims at developing a very high speed encoding method for volumetric spectroscopic 
imaging in human brain at short TE using a combination of 3D Proton-Echo-Planar-
Spectroscopic-Imaging (PEPSI) and regularized 2D-SENSE reconstruction. High 2D-
acceleration factors were feasible using a 32-element array coil. To overcome the technical 
challenges of this implementation we use regularization of the inverse matrix problem to reduce 
amplification of noise and coil sensitivity estimation errors in positions with low-value and 
overlapped coil sensitivities; and optimization of the sensitivity maps to avoid residual aliasing 
artifacts due to the low spatial resolution nature of MRSI. This is particularly important for 
minimizing contamination from peripheral lipids due to increased residual aliasing of the point 
spread function (PSF) with high acceleration. Lipid contamination is particularly strong at short 
TE, which is advantageous for maintaining the sensitivity gain at high field, as metabolite T2-
values have been shown to decrease with field strength [29,30].  We demonstrate the feasibility 
of 3D-MRSI at 3 Tesla in 1 minute for a 32x32x8 spatial matrix and 0.7 cc nominal voxel size.  
data along the ky and kz dimensions by factors Ry and Rz respectively. The acquisition time is 
then given by RzzyyA TR/NR/NT ××= . Three in-vivo accelerations were employed: R = 4 
(Ry = 2, Rz = 2), R = 8 (Ry = 4, Rz = 2) and R = 12 (Ry = 6, Rz = 2). For comparisons the fully-
sampled data was also acquired. Data acquisition includes water suppressed (WS) and non water 
suppressed (NWS) scans. Data were acquired in an axial orientation using a 32x32x8 spatial 
matrix to reconstruct 8 axial slices (FOV: 240x240x100 [mm], nominal voxel size: 0.7 cc). The 
readout direction was right-left (RL) and phase-encoding directions were anterior-posterior (AP) 
and foot-head (FH). Fully sampled data were acquired in 8.5 min using TR= 2 sec, TE= 15 msec. 
The readout gradient consisted of 512 periods (each period has a positive and negative part). The 
spectral bandwidth after positive and negative echo separation was 1087 Hz. A second NWS 
scan with much shorter readout duration (16 periods) and TR= 500 msec was acquired to 
estimate coil sensitivity profiles (2.1 min). Data were collected with 2-fold over sampling for 
each readout gradient separately to improve regridding performance and using a ramp sampling 
delay of 8 μs to limit chemical shift artifacts. Regridding was applied to correct for ramp 
sampling distortion of the kx-t trajectory. After regridding, 2-fold oversampling was removed. 
The data sets were filtered in k-space using a regular Hamming window along the x and y 
dimensions which increased the effective voxel size to 1.8 cc.  
 
SENSE-PEPSI Reconstruction. 
SENSE-PEPSI reconstruction was performed on the accelerated NWS and WS data by separate 
processing of echoes acquired with positive and negative gradients (Fig. 2). The NWS data set is 
required as a reference for spectral phase correction, frequency alignment, Eddy current 
correction and absolute metabolite concentration estimation. Accelerated positive and negative 
combined using a least-squares combination (SENSE reconstruction for the case of non-
accelerated data) to obtain the final spectroscopic image S(r,f): 
∑
∑
=
== n
k
ll
N
l
ll
cc
fSc
fS
c
1
1
)()(*
),()(*
),(
rr
rr
r ,     (1) 
where ),( fSl r  is the reconstructed signal for the l-th coil, )(rlc  is the coil sensitivity,  and * 
denotes complex conjugation.  
2D-SENSE with SSVD solution. 
2D-SENSE reconstruction was performed on the y-z space for each point of the x-t space. The x 
and t-space are considered to be orthogonal, since the chemical shift artifact of the PEPSI spatial-
spectral encoding is small [8]. Correlation between coils was removed by pre-whitening the 
acquired data and the estimated coil sensitivity functions using a sample average estimate of the 
noise covariance matrix [24]. The benefit of this operation is that the noise covariance matrix 
becomes equal to identity and can hence be omitted later in the reconstruction. From this point 
onwards, we consider that the accelerated data and the reference data to estimate the coil 
sensitivity functions were pre-whitened thus creating a set of virtual channels that are 
uncorrelated.  
The signal acquired by each coil in k-space with uniform subsampling (acceleration) of ky and kz 
by factors Ry and Rz respectively can be represented as: 
c
,,
)(2 N ..., 1,2,   ,),,(),,(),,( == ∑ ++ lezyxczyxskkkY
zyx
zkRykRxkj
lzyxl
zzyyxπ ,   (2) 
where ),,( zyxs is the object function to be reconstructed, ),,( zyxcl  is the coil sensitivity 
function and Nc is the number of coils. Applying a spatial discrete Fourier transform (DFT), we 
obtain the spatially aliased signals: 
The SVD and the standard SENSE solution are equivalent. Note that small values of σi represent 
potential numerical instabilities in the reconstruction. Since small singular values will be 
inverted to large values, either noise or systematic errors in sensitivity estimation affecting the 
singular vectors associated with these small singular values will be amplified in the 
reconstruction resulting in a decreased SNR and residual aliasing artifacts. This situation is 
particularly evident in regions with overlapped and/or low-value coil sensitivities where the coils 
are not able to provide distinct information and the reconstruction fails to remove the aliasing. If 
the number of singular values is high, the truncated SVD solution [34] could be used to eliminate 
the components responsible for noise and error propagation by setting a minimum singular value 
threshold. However; for SENSE we have only R singular values, commonly R < 10, therefore it 
is not possible to separate those components. Instead of truncating the SVD, the set of singular 
values can be shifted away from zero using a shift value given by a small portion of the largest 
singular value, thus the solution components for large singular values will remain similar to the 
non-shifted SVD while the components corresponding to small singular values will be attenuated. 
The shifted-SVD (SSVD) approach shifts the set of singular values away from zero using a 
minimum singular value shift based on an upper bound on the condition number (CN) of E (c0). 
The shifted singular values are given by: 0max /σσσσσσ +=Δ+= iisi , where maxσ is the largest 
eigenvalue. The condition number is the ratio of the maximum to the minimum singular value. In 
this way, the set of singular values will be shifted away from zero by adding a minimum singular 
value to improve the conditioning of E. The shifted SVD (SSVD) of E is then HE
s
EES VΣUE =  
where sEΣ is the diagonal matrix with the shifted singular values. Note that ES is a shifted version 
of E. Since we have a large condition number (CN) for an ill-conditioned matrix, e.g.  CN > 
1000, and c0 is chosen in the range of a well-conditioned matrix, e.g. 10010 0 << c , the shift is 
Therefore it allows a tunable tradeoff between ideal accuracy and practical image quality and 
SNR. To choose the threshold on CN, the reconstruction of the 1−st time-domain point of the 
accelerated NWS was employed for different values of c0 between 10 and 100 with steps of 5. 
The value of c0 that proportioned the smallest root mean square error (RMSE) was chosen. The 
RMSE is defined with respect to the non-accelerated data. For optimal results, c0 needs to be re-
optimized for each geometry/subject, which does not represent an increase in acquisition time, 
only extra processing time. For the matrix size used in this work it took less than 1 minute. 
Coil sensitivity estimation. 
Coil sensitivity functions were estimated using spectral water images from an extra fully-
sampled NWS acquisition with fewer time points [17]. The reference signal is appropriate since 
it contains the same readout as the accelerated PEPSI data, which is necessary to avoid spatial 
registration errors. Following the inverse Fourier transform law, the integral along the spectral 
domain is contained in the first temporal point, which was used as the spectral water image for 
each coil. The change in contrast due to a shorter TR and anatomical features were reduced by 
normalizing the reference signal of each coil by the sum-of-squares (SoS) reconstruction of the 
multi-coil reference data. The raw sensitivity maps are still impaired by noise and present 
discontinuities at the object border. Refinement of the raw sensitivity maps was performed by 
extracting the low frequency components using polynomial fitting and spatial extrapolation 
beyond the borders of the object [11]. A 3−rd order polynomial fit was employed.  
Low Spatial-Resolution Effects. 
Reconstruction from truncated k-space data can be represented as the convolution of the true 
object function and the point spread function (PSF) of the reconstruction method. The PSF is a 
spatial weighting function that describes the signal origin in that voxel. This aspect is particularly 
phosphoethanolamine (PE) and taurine (Tau). The basis sets for LCModel were generated by 
simulating the spectral pattern of each metabolite using density matrix simulations based on 
chemical-shift and J-coupling values [37]. The PEPSI sequence was approximated as a simple 
spin-echo sequence without slice selective gradients and assuming infinitely short RF pulses.  
Spectra were fitted in the spectral range between 1.0 and 4.0 ppm. Metabolic concentration 
values in the reconstructed WS data were computed in reference to the NWS data using the 
water-scaling method with the following scale factors: water concentration = 55 molar and 
attenuation correction for water and metabolites = 1.0. Combined absolute concentrations in 
milliMolar [mM] units were reported in this work: NAA=NAA+NAAG, Cr= Cr+PCr and Glu= 
Glu+Gln. Choline (Cho) was represented by GPC only. Metabolite concentrations were not 
corrected for relaxation differences and partial volume effects. 
Errors in metabolite quantification in LCmodel (%SD) are expressed in Cramer-Rao lower 
bound (CRLB, the lowest bound of the standard deviation of the estimated metabolite 
concentration expressed as percentage of this concentration), which when multiplied by 2.0 
represent 95% confidence intervals of the estimated concentration values [36].  
Metabolite concentration images with the spatial matrix of the acquisition (32×32×8) were 
created using the following thresholds to accept voxels: a) CRLB  ≤ 20% for NAA and Cr, 
CRLB  ≤ 30% for Cho, and CRLB  ≤ 50% for Glu and b) spectral linewidth (FWHM) ≤ 0.2 ppm. 
Error maps were computed between the accelerated data reconstruction and the fully-sampled 
data reconstruction using the root mean square (RMS) value of the difference. Finally, the 
metabolite concentration maps were interpolated to a 128×128×8 matrix using zero-filling to 
improve visualization. 
2D-SENSE reconstruction of the accelerated data with coil sensitivity extrapolation beyond the 
border of the brain provided a properly unaliased PSF (Fig. 5). Without sensitivity extrapolation, 
SENSE reconstruction may lead to residual aliasing artifacts due to discontinuities at the object 
border. The SSVD solution improved aliasing suppression for larger accelerations (R=4×2 and 
R=6×2). The aliasing peaks along the y dimension were reduced by 35 dB approximately for 
Ry=2 and Ry=4. For Ry=6, the aliasing peak to the left of the signal peak was poorly suppressed 
if the SSVD was not used. With SSVD the aliasing peaks for Ry=6 were at least reduced by 20 
dB. The aliasing peak along the z dimension was reduced by 20 dB approximately for Rz=2. The 
PSF for SENSE reconstruction is asymmetric which is due in part to asymmetries in the array 
coil configuration. Note that for R=1×1 (non-accelerated data), the PSF for SENSE 
reconstruction presented lower side lobes than the one for SoS reconstruction, which results in 
reduced contamination from outside voxels. This is due to the better defined coil sensitivity 
functions used in SENSE. For SoS reconstruction, coil sensitivities are assumed to be equal to 
the spatial SNR profiles of the data; for SENSE a polynomial fit was employed. 
 
Metabolite maps and spectra. 
Metabolite concentration mapping was feasible up to R=4×2 (1 minute acquisition) with a 
moderate reduction in spatial-spectral quality when compared to the non-accelerated acquisition: 
RMSEs were less than 0.3%; and the increase in average CRLBs were 5.1, 6.8, 10.7 and 13.9 for 
NAA, Cr, Cho and Glu respectively (Fig. 7.a). R=2×2 (2 minutes acquisition) presented similar 
results to the non-accelerated acquisition: RMSEs were less than 0.5%; and the increase in 
average CRLBs were 2.0, 2.5, 5.6 and 5.4 for NAA, Cr, Cho and Glu respectively (Fig. 7.b). Fig. 
6 shows the concentration maps for the three major single resonances NAA, Creatine and 
Discussion. 
In this work we demonstrated feasibility of a very high speed method for volumetric 
spectroscopic imaging in human brain using a combination of highly accelerated Proton-Echo-
Planar-Spectroscopic-Imaging (PEPSI) and 2D-SENSE with a 32-element array coil. We show 
that the acquisition of short TE (15 ms) 3D-PEPSI with a 32×32×8 spatial matrix can be 
accelerated up to 1 min to map the concentrations of N-Acetyl-Aspartate (NAA), Creatine (Cr), 
Choline (Cho) and Glutamate (Glu) at the expense of a moderate reduction in spatial-spectral 
quality. This short acquisition time constitutes a major advance as compared to previous studies 
using parallel MRSI, such as data presented in [16] that required 20 min of encoding time for the 
same spatial matrix. Large accelerations in parallel imaging comes with a spatially varying 
reduction in SNR, which is due to the acquisition of fewer phase encoding steps ( factor−R ) 
and noise amplification in the reconstruction due to ill-conditioning of the encoding matrix (g-
factor) [11]. A high acceleration factor (R=8) was achieved by using 2D acceleration (Ry=4 and 
Rz=2), a large array coil of 32 elements and regularization in the SENSE reconstruction. 
Acceleration applied simultaneously to the ky and kz phase-encoding dimensions increased the 
acceleration capability by reducing the large SNR loss from high 1D accelerations. The 
conditioning of the reconstruction improved considerably by exploiting sensitivity encoding 
along two dimensions and therefore reduced geometry related noise amplification as described in 
[21]. The difference between 1D-SENSE and 2D-SENSE for the same net acceleration factor is 
given by the g-factor. 2D-SENSE presents a lower and more spatially uniform g-factor than 1D-
SENSE (see Fig. 3 and Fig. 4). For example, the average SNR decrease for R= 8×1 is 12.6 but 
only 4.4 for R= 4×2. Therefore, there is a 2.8-fold gain in average SNR performance when using 
2D-SENSE in this work for an 8-fold acceleration. 
SSVD reconstruction provided better aliasing suppression at large acceleration factors for 
positions with overlapped coil sensitivities. These two factors were very important to reduce 
extra-cranial lipid contamination due to residual aliasing. Lipid signals are particularly strong at 
short TE, which is advantageous to maintain the sensitivity advantage at high field and to 
improve the detection of J-coupled metabolites. The sensitivity profiles were fitted using a 3−rd 
order polynomial function, which provided a better representation of this array coil than the 
commonly used 2−nd order polynomial function. SSVD reconstruction reduced the lipid 
contamination inside the brain as compared to standard SENSE reconstruction by a factor of 1.6 
on average due to better aliasing suppression in regions with overlapped coil sensitivities. 
The maximum attainable acceleration was evaluated quantitatively using the RMSE of the 
metabolite concentration with respect to the non accelerated acquisition and the CRLB from 
LCModel spectral fitting. The CRLB represents the combined influence of SNR, spectral line 
width and spectral shape on the accuracy of the fit. We also generated RMSE maps to evaluate 
qualitatively the spatial homogeneity of the concentration maps. Based on these parameters, 
R=4×2 presented an acceptable reduction in spatial-spectral quality to map the concentrations of 
NAA, Cr, Cho and Glu.  
The short acquisition time of the method is advantageous for applications using hyperpolarized 
contrast agents [40], allowing highly accelerated acquisition of large data volumes during the 
short duration of enhanced polarization. Also, the use of high magnetic field strength has been 
shown to improve the performance of parallel imaging by increasing the baseline SNR and 
providing stronger sensitivity encoding [22]. These two factors promise to shift the SNR balance 
for highly parallel MRI and perhaps pay the price for even larger array coils. In future work, we 
are planning to implement the technique at 7 Tesla using a 32-element array. However, in order 
References. 
1. Brown TB, Kincaid BM, Ugurbil K. NMR chemical shift imaging in three dimensions. Proc 
Natl Acad Sci USA 1982; 79:3523-3526. 
2. Maudsley AA, Hilal SK. Spatially resolved high resolution spectroscopy by four dimensional 
NMR. J Magn Reson 1983; 51:147-152. 
3. Duijn JH, Matson GB, Maudsley AA, Weiner MW, 3D phase encoding 1H spectroscopic 
imaging of human brain. Magn Reson Imag 1992; 10:315-319. 
4. Pohmann R, von Kienlin M, Haase A. Theoretical evaluation and comparison of fast 
chemical shift imaging methods. J Magn Reson. 1997; 129:145-160. 
5. Mansfield P. Spatial mapping of the chemical shift in NMR. Magn Reson Med 1984; 1:370-
386. 
6. Posse S, DeCarli C, Le Bihan D. Three-dimensional echo-planar MR spectroscopic imaging 
at short echo times in the human brain. Radiology 1994; 192:733-738. 
7. Posse S, Tedeschi G, Risinger R, Ogg R, Le Bihan D. High speed 1H spectroscopic imaging 
in human brain by echo planar spatial-spectral encoding. Magn Reson Med 1995; 33:34-40. 
8. Otazo R, Mueller B, Ugurbil K, Wald L, Posse S. Signal-to-noise ratio and spectral linewidth 
improvements between 1.5 and 7 Tesla in proton echo-planar spectroscopic imaging. Magn 
Reson Med. 2006; 56:1200-1210. 
9. Sodickson DK, McKenzie CA. A generalized approach to parallel magnetic resonance 
imaging. Med Phys 2001; 28:1629–1643. 
10. Pruessmann KP. Encoding and reconstruction in parallel MRI. NMR Biomed. 2006; 19:288-
299. 
11. Pruessmann KP, Weiger M, Scheidegger MB, Boesiger P. SENSE: sensitivity encoding for 
fast MRI. Magn Reson Med 1999; 42:952-962. 
12. Dydak U, Weiger M, Pruessmann KP, Meier D, Boesiger P. Sensitivity encoded 
spectroscopic imaging. Magn Reson Med 2001; 46:713-722. 
13. Dydak U, Pruessmann KP, Weiger M, Tsao J, Meier D, Boesiger P. Parallel spectroscopic 
imaging with spin-echo trains. Magn Reson Med. 2003; 50:196-200. 
14. Zhao X, Prost RW, Li Z, Li SJ. Reduction of artifacts by optimization of the sensitivity map 
in sensitivity-encoded spectroscopic imaging. Magn Reson Med 2005; 53: 30-34. 
26. Sodickson DK, Hardy CJ, Zhu Y, Giaquinto RO, Gross P, Kenwood G, Niendorf T, Lejay H, 
McKenzie CA, Ohliger MA, Grant AK, Rofsky NM. Rapid volumetric MRI using parallel 
imaging with order-of-magnitude accelerations and a 32-element RF coil array: feasibility 
and implications. Acad Radiol 2005; 12: 626-635. 
27. Wright SM, Wald LL. Theory and applications of array coils in MR spectroscopy. NMR 
Biomed. 1997; 10:394-410. 
28. Sodickson DK, Lee RF, Giaquinto RO, Collins CM, McKenzie CA, Ohliger MA, Grant AK, 
Willig-Onwuachi JD, Yeh EN, Kressel HY. Depth penetration of RF coil arrays for 
sequential and parallel imaging. In: Proceedings of the 11th Annual Meeting of ISMRM, 
Toronto, Canada, 2003. p 469. 
29. Posse, S., Cuenod, C.A., Risinger, R., Le Bihan, D., Balaban, R.S., Anomalous transverse 
relaxation in 1H spectroscopy in human brain at 4 Tesla, Magn Reson Med. 1995; 33:246-
252 
30. Hetherington HP, Mason GF, Pan JW, Ponder SL, Vaughan JT, Twieg DB, Pohost GM. 
Evaluation of cerebral gray and white matter metabolite differences by spectroscopic 
imaging at 4.1T. Magn. Reson. Med. 1994; 32:565-571. 
31. Wiggins GC, Triantafyllou C, Potthast A, Reykowski A, Nittka M, Wald LL. 32-channel 3 
Tesla receive-only phased-array head coil with soccer-ball element geometry. Magn Reson 
Med 2006; 56:216-223. 
32. Ogg RJ, Kingsley PB, Taylor JS. WET a T1-B1-insensitive water suppression method for in 
vivo localized 1H NMR spectroscopy. J Magn Reson series B 1994; 104:1-10. 
33. Klose U. In vivo proton spectroscopy in presence of eddy currents. Magn Reson Med. 1990; 
14:26-30. 
34. Hoge WS, Brooks DM, Madore B, Kyriakos W. On the regularization of SENSE and Space-
RIP in parallel MR imaging. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Symposium on 
Biomedical Imaging (ISBI), 2004, pp. 241-244. 
35. Yuan L, Ying L and Liang Z.-P. Truncation effects in SENSE reconstruction. In: 
Proceedings of the 26th Annual International Conference of the IEEE EMBS, 2004, p.1136 - 
1139. 
Tables. 
 
Metabolite Absolute concentration [mM] 
 R=1×1 R=2×2 R=4×2 
 
NAA 10.0 ± 3.7 10.2 ± 4.1 10.3 ± 4.7 
Cr 8.0 ± 2.4 7.9 ± 2.7 7.9 ± 3.1 
Cho 1.8 ± 0.8 1.8 ± 0.9 1.6 ± 1.0 
Glu 8.3 ± 3.6 8.5 ± 3.9 8.8 ± 5.2 
 
Table 1: Average absolute concentration and standard deviation for different accelerations. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: SENSE-PEPSI reconstruction diagram. Multi-coil accelerated positive ),( tp kY  and 
negative ),( tn kY  echoes are reconstructed separately using 2D-SENSE reconstruction for each 
time point. Coil-by-coil PEPSI reconstruction is then performed where positive and negative 
echoes are combined after spectral phase correction. The final spectroscopic image ),( fS r data 
is obtained by least-squares combination of the coil-by-coil reconstruction. 
 
Fig. 4: a) g-factor maps for slices 2-6 and b) reconstruction of the 1-st time-domain point of the 
NWS data from slice 4 for different accelerations. The threshold on CN was set using the 
reconstruction with R=4×2 (c0=25). RMSE is the average RMS error with respect to the non-
accelerated data (R=1×1). Note the reduction of g-factor for the SSVD reconstruction, which will 
be useful for later time points which are noisy. R=2×2 and R=4×2 presented similar 
reconstruction to the non-accelerated data. For R=6×2, even though the g-factor using SSVD 
reconstruction might seem appropriate, the SNR reduction due to factor-R  deteriorated the 
reconstruction.  
 
Fig. 6: Metabolite concentration maps of a) NAA, b) Creatine and c) Choline for slices 2-7. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: a) Glutamate concentration maps at different accelerations for slices 4-7. b) Raw 
absorption mode spectrum (black line) and corresponding LCModel fit (red line) for a gray 
matter (GM) voxel and a white matter (WM) voxel (voxel locations are indicated in part a). The 
remaining baseline is given by the smooth black curve. The concentration of Glutamate is given 
in each case.  
 
