1摘要
一般馬達轉速的量測可使用光編碼器、反射式轉速計與接觸式轉速計等，但這些方法其限制為馬
達電樞軸必須在馬達本體之外。而因為結構的關係，有些馬達電樞軸被包附在總成結構內，例如燃料
泵浦，此類馬達要估測其工作時的轉速，就必需以其他的方式來達成。
經驗模態分解(EMD)是分析未知混合訊號的一種方法，可從原訊號中析出數個本質模態函數
(IMF)，再藉由希爾伯特-黃轉換(HHT)將每個本質模態函數轉換成可解析訊號。在本研究中將建立一套
程序，來分析燃油泵浦中的有刷直流馬達在運轉時，電流訊號之變動情況。再從分析出的結果中，決
定馬達的轉速。
關鍵字：經驗模態分解、本質模態函數、直流馬達
Abstract
In general, measuring rotation speeds of motors can use optical encoders, or other contact/non-contact
measuring devices. The above methods can only be used for motors with their rotation axes outside their
bodies. For those motors whose rotation axes are covered by their outside shells, such as fuel pumps, the
above methods can not work and other methods should be used to measure their rotation speeds.
The empirical mode decomposition (EMD) is a method for digital analysis of the unknown mixing signal,
it can extract several intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) from the original signal. Moreover, the Hilbert-Huang
Transform (HHT) technique transforms intrinsic mode functions into analytic signals. In this paper, we are
going to establish a procedure using the EMD method to analyze the electric current signal of a fuel pump DC
motor and determine the rotation speed of the motor from the analysis results.
Keywords: Empirical mode decomposition (EMD), Intrinsic mode function (IMF), DC motor
1. 前言
當馬達工作運轉時，最重要的是其扭力及轉速工作特性。扭力部分，可在輸出軸加裝扭力計來量
測。轉速方面，則可採用反射式或接觸式轉速計、光編碼器等。然而某些應用的情況無法加裝轉速計
或光編碼器等感測裝置，或者實驗成本上不符合經濟效益。因此如何在不加裝轉軸感測器的條件下，
仍能估測到馬達轉速，成為一個重要的議題。
在馬達控制領域中，有不少人在研究無感測器之馬達轉速控制[1-3]。其中回饋至控制器的馬達轉
速，大都採用馬達的端電壓及電流來估測轉速，或利用輸入馬達的電壓命令及馬達的輸出電流來估測
馬達的轉速。上述之馬達轉速的估測完全仰賴於數學推論，需有已知的馬達參數，且過程較為繁雜。
對於沒有參數資料的馬達而言，要獲得馬達轉速的過程較為不易。
本研究針對有刷直流馬達轉速來進行研究，當馬達運轉時，須利用換向器來切換轉子上的電流，
使總和的電磁場在空間上維持恆定。換向器最常見的結構是一圈圓柱面，在其面上覆以一片片的導電
材料（通常是銅片），而每片材料間彼此以絕緣物（如雲母等）絕緣，而馬達的導體則依序連接至換
向器的各片上。因此在換向的瞬間，電刷將同時接觸到兩個鄰接的換向片，使得連接在兩片之間的線
圈被電刷所瞬間短路，而在線圈內產生一短路電流。因電刷及換向片引起之短路電流，造成輸入電流
訊號發生波動情形，此波動訊號即可提供作為分析。
近來時頻分析工具，如：短時傅利葉轉換(Short-Time Fourier Tramsform, STFT)[4,5]及小波轉換
3當餘函數 nr 變成常數或單調函數，即停止整個轉移過程。




1
1
n
i
ni rctX (3)
(3)式表示一個信號被分解成n-1個本質模態函數及一個趨勢或常數的餘函數。若將n-1個本質模態函數
和餘函數 nr 相加起來，最後可還原成原信號。
2.1.2 本質模態函數
經驗模態分解出的本質模態函數具有完備性、正交性與局部性。學理上任一個本質模態函數須滿
足下列條件，方可顯現深藏在信號內部的震盪模態：
(1). 整個函數中，極值數目須和越零點數目相等或者相差一個。
(2). 任何時刻，局部極大值和極小值包絡線所構成之均值包絡線必須為零。
2.1.3 希爾伯特-黃轉換
係將本質模態函數做為基底，求出本質模態函數的瞬時頻率及振幅，使信號能表現出即時變化的
訊息與特性。因此對於一個時間序列數據 tX ，都能得到它的希爾伯特-黃轉換結果 tY ，即
 td
tt
tX
PVtY 
 
1
(4)
式中：PV為柯西主值
從轉換出的共軛複數，我可以獲得一個解析信號 tZ ，即
    tietatiYtXtZ  (5)
其中：
   2122 tYtXta 
 


 
tX
tY
t 1tan (6)
因此，瞬時頻率 t 為
 
dt
td
t
  (7)
由(7)式可知道， t 的變數為時間t，即某一時間點對應某一頻率值。
2.2 快速傅利葉轉換[12]
一般在分析有限區間訊號序列都使用離散傅利葉轉換(DFT)，但直接運用(8)式的結果，使得執行
效率不佳，尤其當N很大時。因此Colley和Tukey[13]發展出快速傅利葉轉換(FFT)，此程序可以大量減
低運算量，提高執行速度。
  10,
1
0



NkWnxkX
N
n
nk
N (8)
其中 NjN eW
/2 ，需N個複數乘法運算和(N-1)個複數加法運算以得到 kX 的一個取樣值，所以DFT計
算量取決於量級 2N 。鑑於大部分的乘法運算一直被重覆，所以利用(9)、(10)式之複數係數 nkNW 的週
期特性和對稱特性
   nNk
N
Nnk
N
kn
N WWW
  (9)
55. 參考文獻
1. K. Iizuka, H. Uzuhashi, et al., 1985,”Microcomputer control for sensorless brushless motor”, IEEE Trans. 
on Ind. Appl., Vol. lA-21, No. 3, pp. 595-601.
2. Nobuyuki Mastsui, Masakane Shigyo, Jan. 1992 ,”Brushless dc Motor Control without Position and Speed
Sensors”, IEEE Trans. on Ind. Appl., Vol. 28, No. 1, pp.120-127.
3. Rusong Wu, Gordon R. Slemon, Sept. 1991, “A Permanent Magnet Motor Drive Without a Shaft Sensor”, 
IEEE Trans. on Ind. Appl., Vol. 27, No. 5, pp. 1005-1011.
4. Conor Heneghan, Shyam M. Khanna, Dec. 1994,”Investigating the Nonlinear Dynamics of Cellular
Motion in the Inner Ear Using the Short-Time Fourier and Continous Wavelet Transform”, IEEE Trans. on 
Sign. Proc., Vol. 42, No. 12, pp.3335-3352.
5. Shi Jingzhuo, Xu Dianguo, Lin Baoting, May 2003,”Sensorless Speed Detection Based on STFT of
Series-Excited Motor”, Proc. 20th IEEE Inst. and Meas. Technol. Conf., Vol. 2, pp. 1322-1326.
6. Levent Eren, Michael J. Devaney, April 2004,”Bearing Damage Detection via Wavelet Packet 
Decomposition of the Stator Curent”, IEEE Trans. on Inst. and Meas., Vol. 53, No. 2, pp. 431-436.
7. Huang, N. E., Shen, Z., Long, S. R., Wu, M. C., Shih, H. H., Zheng, Q., Yen, N. C., Tung, C. C., and Liu,
H. H., 1998,”The empirical mode decomposition and the Hilbert spectrum for nonlinear and non-stationary
time series analysis”, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A, Vol. 454, pp.903-995.
8. Reqiang Yan, Robert X Gao., Dec. 2006,”Hilbert-Huang Transform-Based Vibration Signal Analysis for
Machine Monitoring”, IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., Vol. 55, No. 6, pp. 2320-2329.
9. V.K. Rai, A.R. Mohanty,”Bearing fault diagnosis using FFT of intrinsic mode functions in Hilbert-Huang
transform”, Mechanical System and Signal Processing 21 (2007) 2607-2615.
10. Dong Yinfeng, Li Yingmin, Xiao Mingkui, Lai Ming,”Analysis of earthquake ground motions using an
improved Hilbert-Huang transform”, Soil Dyn. and Earthq. Eng. 28 (2008) 7-19.
11. Flandrin P, Riling G, Feb. 2004,”Empirical Mode Decomposition as a Filter Bank”, IEEE Sig. Proc.Let., 
Vol. 11, No. 2, pp. 112-114.
12. V. K. lngle, J. G. Proakis,“Original: Digital Signal System with Matlab”, Thomson Learning, Inc., 2000.
13. J. W. Cooley, J. W. Tukey, April 1965,”An algorithm for the machine computation of complex Fourier
series”, Mathematical Computation, 19:297-301.
6. 圖表
圖1 實驗電路圖
7圖6 IMF_3之頻譜圖 圖7 IMF_4之頻譜圖
圖8 IMF_5之頻譜圖 圖9 IMF_6之頻譜圖
圖10 IMF_7之頻譜圖 圖11 IMF_8之頻譜圖
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心
得報告
日期： 99 年 7月 31 日
一、參加會議經過
本人於 2009 年 11 月 12 日由高雄小港機場搭日航(JAL)班機至東
計畫編
號
NSC 98－2221－E－020－036－
計畫名
稱
應用經驗模態分解法量測燃料泵浦馬達轉速
出國人
員姓名
陳立文
服務機
構及職
稱
國立屏東科技大學教授
會議時
間
98 年 11 月
13 日至
98 年 11
月 16 日
會議地
點
日本橫濱
會議名
稱
(中文)亞太材料與機械研討會
(英文) Asian Pacific Conference for Materials and Mechanics 
(APCMM)
發表論
文題目
(中文)以外加非均勻徑向磁力之智慧型磁性流體
(英文) ON SMART MAGNETIC FLUIDS IN EXTERNALLY APPLIED NON-UNIFORM 
RADIAL MAGNETIC
位日本教授所發表的論文，其所研發一由兩種分別由自然與人工兩處
所得之膠狀物以網絡膠結方式呈現的膠體，其中含有 90%的水分，但
因具有雙重的網狀結構，因此較一般膠質物質具有更強的耐拉伸與抗
壓的能力。其研發除了頗具創意外，其實用性亦不可忽視，在介紹時
並附加有影片說明，更讓人印象深刻。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)
四、建議
參加國際會議最重要的是知識及人員的交流，尤其作研發工作，
更應多與國際交流。因此到國外參加會議是很重要的，此次會議
雖然在日本舉行，而以日本人居多，但仍有很多國外人士參加，
中國大陸亦有不少學者參加，但部分大陸的研究學者，在某些發
表的會議上缺席，這是很不好的。另外建議我國應多多舉辦國際
會議，以利國內外研究人員的參加與交流。
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
1.書面之會議手冊，記載會議的議程資料。
2.論文集，論文集的資料存在一隨身碟內。
Asian Pacific Conference for Materials and Mechanics 2009 at Yokohama, Japan, November 13-16 
ON SMART MAGNETIC FLUIDS IN EXTERNALLY APPLIED 
NON-UNIFORM RADIAL MAGNETIC  
 H.-H. Tsai1, L.-W. Chen2, C.-H. Tsai2, and H.-H. Huang2 
1Dept. Biomechatronics Engineering,  
2Dept. Vehicle Engineering,  
National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, Taiwan. 
Corresponding author: sanlyhuang@mail.npust.edu.tw 
 
 
1. BACKGROUND 
There are many types of smart materials used in engineering applications. Some common ones 
include piezoelectric materials, shape memory alloys and polymers, pH-sensitive polymers, 
temperature-responsive polymers, halochromic and chromogenic materials, and magneto-
rheological fluids (also called smart magnetic fluids).   
Any relative displacement of a conducting magnetic fluid in a magnetic field will produce an 
electromotive force, which will then generate an electric current field and later will induce a 
corresponding induced magnetic field.  This is a typical phenomenon in electromagnetism in 
conducting magnetic fluids.  With the presence of the electric current and magnetic fields, a 
force sometimes called the Laplace force will be generated to act on each unit volume of the 
smart material.  This Laplace force serves to oppose the magnetic fluid motion and therefore can 
be considered as a braking mechanism for appropriate applications [1].  
So far, smart magnetic fluid has found to be excellent for various engineering applications: 
(a) Magnetic fluids are used to form liquid seals surrounding a shaft.  The smart magnetic 
fluid which is injected into the gap between the magnet and the rotating shaft form an 
excellent protection protecting the system from dust invasion [2]. 
(b) Magnetic fluids also serve as excellent lubricants.  They can be injected into the gaps 
between moving mechanical parts.  During most operations, the leakage of the fluid can 
be minimized if not totally prohibited because of electromagnetism effect [3]. 
(c) Magnetic fluids are commonly used as the MRI contrast agents for cancer detection.  
Sometimes, magnetic fluid is also used in experimental cancer treatments named 
magnetic hyperthermia [4].  
(d) Magnetorheological damper has been lately used as a kind of active suspension system in 
vehicles.  This system is surrounded with an electromagnet and the viscosity of its 
magnetic filling can be almost instanteneously changed to account for the driver 
preference.  This means can effectively improve the stability control of the vehicle owing 
to that fact that its damping factor can be adjusted within millisecond in response to 
unaccounted and unfavorable driving conditions [5].   
(e) The application of magnetic fluid can also be found in safety devices.  Sharing the same 
concepts as of the magnetorheological dampers, magnetic fluid is also found in helicopter 
cockpit seats for its damping response can significantly decrease the rate of permanent 
injury during a holicopter accident. 
  The goal of this work is to investigate how a smart magnetic fluid enclosed in an annular space 
may response to the combination effects of rotational inner cylinder and non-uniform external 
Asian Pacific Conference for Materials and Mechanics 2009 at Yokohama, Japan, November 13-16 
 
3. RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS 
Based on current study, it is confirmed that the effect of the externally applied magnetic field 
whose Ha < 1 is insignificant for all configurations of magnetic fields.  Because of the abrupt 
introduction and termination of magnetic field, distinguish localized magnetic effect has been 
observed.  Figures 2 show the contours of stream function for the smart magnetic fluid subject to 
the four types of externally applied magnetic field distributions of Ha = 30, which are shown in 
Figures 1.  As evidently shown in Figure 2(a), the contours of stream functions appear to be a 
family of concentric circles implying that the magnetic flow between the inner and outer cylinders 
is purely a swirl flow.  In other words, the velocity profiles for the magnetic fluid is completely 
angular independent under the influence of a uniformly applied external magnetic field. 
Figure 2(b) shows the contour of stream functions of the magnetic fluid subjected to a semi-
circular external magnetic field.  Unlike that in Figure 2(a), there exists an additional recirculation 
cell at the lower portion of the annular space.  Since the magnetic field is only applied in the upper 
half of the annulus, the magnetic fluid in the upper half region solely flows in the counter-
clockwise direction.  On the other hand, a recirculation cell develops in the lower half region 
simply as a result of the braking effect due to the external magnetic field in the upper half region.  
As the magnetic fluid enters the upper half region, the fluid is forced to slow down when it 
experiences great resistance originated from the Laplac force.  Once it enters the upper region, the 
fluid expands almost radially toward the outer cylinder.  When the fluid leaves the upper half 
region and enters the lower half region, it is squeezed into the region betwwen the inner cylinder 
surface and the recirculation cell.  Clearly, localized magnetic field serves to accelerate and 
decelerate the smart magnetic fluids as well as changing their trajectories depending on whether 
the magnetic field is introduced or terminated. 
If the magnetic field conditions in the second and third quadrants are interchanged, there exist 
in the regions without external magnetic field two recirculation cells, as shown in Figure 2(c).  
Also notice is that these two recirculation cells are actually weaker than that showin in Figure 
2(b).  This is simply because the recirculation cell shown in Figure 2(b) is split into the two cells 
shown in Figure 2(c).  Except those very close to the rotating inner cylinder, the majority fluid 
elements flowing in the regions with external magnetic fields also flow slower than the previous 
case.   
Figure 2(d) shows the flow pattern of the magnetic fluid in the annular space under the influence 
of a three-quarter-circular external magnetic field.  The recirculation of smart magnetic fluid takes 
place in the region without magnetic field. The outer boundary of the local swirl always attaches 
to the border where magnetic effect is introduced and terminated. As the strength of the magnetic 
field increases, the smart magnetic fluid tends to circulate leading to an obvious local 
acceleration and deceleration. 
Based on the comparion of contours illustrated in Figure 2, it is discovered that when the 
external magnetic field spans over the upper half region, the magnetic fluid is squeezed and 
dragged into the shear layer.  In contrast, if the external magnetic field is split and applied 
alternatively over the upper and lower half semi-annular spaces, the shear flow still need to force 
their way through.  When a three-quarter-circular external magnetic field is applied at the first, 
third, and fourth quadrant, the fluid actually experience less resistance to flow through the region 
without external magnetic field.   
 
 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
