 2
乾燥程序之業者。本計畫執行之成果與效益如下： 
1. 建立流體化床廢棄物氣化混燒技術。 
2. 建立氣化−熱風乾燥整合系統模組化開發技術。 
3. 完成經濟效益分析，提供業者進行商業化設計與開發之依據。 
4. 計畫相關成果發表於韓國釜山所舉行之第十屆亞洲流體化床暨三相反應器
研討會（10th Asian Conference on Fluidized-Bed and Three-Phase Reactors）。 
5. 對需熱風製程之產業可降低廢棄處理費用，同時減少燃料使用費。 
6. 訓練及培養參與本計畫之學生及合作企業員工成為國內再生能源（生質能）
技術人才。 
7. 協助參與本計畫之合作業者發展再生能源產業。 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
本計畫計培養碩士研究生一名、大學部學生五名，透過修習專題方式參與計畫，
達到訓練之目的。此外，參與合作之企業除既有之研究人員外，亦培訓四名員工進
行操作訓練，為國內培育生質能源之技術人才。 
 
技術研發成果說明： 
本計畫旨在以菇類栽培精緻農業之廢棄物培養土作為料源，利用流體化床氣化
爐與熱風乾燥系統（air heating system）進行整合，開發廢棄物氣化合成燃氣作為熱
風乾燥系統之燃料或輔助燃料（混燒）之技術，主要目的為： 
1. 提昇廢棄物流體化床氣化爐之效率。 
2. 以氣化合成燃氣取代取代全部或部份熱風乾燥系統使用之燃氣（即瓦斯），
並建立熱風系統之操控條件與效率。 
3.  整合氣化爐與熱風乾燥系統，使之模組化。 
4. 進行經濟分析，作為未來商業化設計與開發之依據。 
5.  協助業者發展再生能源產業。 
氣化利用之料源係來自台中大里地區金針菇農場所產生之廢棄培養土，主要成
份包含木材屑、玉米芯和梗米糠等，由合作企業負責提供。表 1.為廢棄培養土之成
分分析（proximate analysis）與元素分析（ultimate analysis）。 
氣化系統係一 300 kWth 流體化床廢棄物氣化利用示範系統，主要包括氣泡式
流體化床、進料、供氣、燃氣後處理和分析設備等五部分系統。氣泡式流體化床氣
 4
技術特點說明： 
氣化程序屬熱化學轉換反應，係在高溫下進行非催化性的部分氧化反應，將含
碳物質（如生質物、廢棄物或煤炭等）轉換成以氣態燃料為主，可供利用的能源，
兼具環保與能源效益，已成為全球廢棄物能源利用的關鍵技術之一。以氣化技術處
理廢棄物具有以下之優點，包括可有效回收及利用廢棄物所蘊藏之能源；氣化爐爐
體構造簡單，操作容易；進料彈性大，用途廣；所需空氣量較直接燃燒時少，除塵
設備投資低；氮氧化物及二氧化碳產量少，較少污染；以及反應為部分氧化，剩餘
氧量很少，可避免戴奧辛前驅物氯酚之產生。與國外現況比較，目前國內廢棄物的
料源分散性高且數量較低，而在能源回收的利用上，無法如國外以大規模複循環發
電方式為主，但國內適合以廢棄物氣化利用生產合成燃氣作為鍋爐輔助燃料之混燒
（co-firing）系統，並可作為原有乾燥系統燃料來源，其優點包括可處理廢棄物、可
燒低熱值氣體、不需淨氣體設備、可降溫室效應氣體及空氣污染物排放、可節省燃
料成本，且改裝原有鍋爐等設備容易。因此對國內已具鍋爐之業者而言，在既有的
設備基礎下，僅需建造廢棄物氣化單元，值得加以推廣利用。 
 
可利用之產業及可開發之產品： 
菇類培植業者、紙業、鋼鐵、水泥或塑膠化纖業且具鍋爐之業者，及配合需用
熱風作業程序之業者，如快速印刷製程之油墨乾燥、金屬表面塗裝之乾燥、大型烘
乾爐、農產品或食品乾燥業者等。 
 
推廣及運用的價值：  
目前國內菇類栽培精緻農業大多分佈在中部地區，每年菇類栽培精緻農業所產
生之廢棄培養土約有五萬餘噸，主要成份包含木材屑、玉米芯和梗米糠，現階段業
者雖然將該廢棄培養土加工成有機肥料出售，但因價值有限，大部份仍被視為廢棄
物清運處理。廢棄培養土為生質物，因此可作為燃料利用，將廢棄培養土經由氣化
反應轉化成為氣態燃料，進而提供生產熱風所需之能源，除可處理廢棄物，並提高
其再利用率外，亦可節省燃油／氣使用量，兼具能源與環保雙重貢獻，未來亦可推
廣至其他農業廢棄物之氣化利用。目前國內每年約有 400萬噸有機廢棄物，但每年
煤消費量為 50萬噸，其中 15%為汽電共生使用，設 5%進行氣化混燒，以廢棄物取
代之，則預估至 2020年，產值可達 20億元。 
Proceedings of the 10TH Asian Conference on 
  
FLUIDIZED-BED  
AND  
THREE-PHASE REACTORS 
 
November 26-29, 2006 
Marriott(Novotel Ambassador) Hotel,  
Busan, Korea 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Korean Institute of Chemical Engineers 
The Society of Chemical Engineers, Japan 
The Chinese Institute of Chemical Engineers-Taipei 
The Chulalongkorn University, Thailand 
 − 597 −
used for power generation directly. On employing a gasification reactor, fluidized bed 
gasifiers exhibit more advantages compared with other types of gasifiers, such as isothermal 
conditions throughout the reactor, intimate mixing of solids and gas, high heat and mass 
transfer rates, and more flexibility in scaling up. 
Existing distinguished commercial manufacturers of large biomass gasification systems, 
such as Foster Wheeler, TPS and Ebara, applied the circulating fluidized bed (CFB) 
technology for their gasifiers. On systematic researches, van der Drift et al. (2001) carried out 
a series of gasification tests with ten residual biomass fuels in a 20 cm I.D. and 6 m high 500 
kWth circulating fluidized bed gasifier. The solid recycling component was a sealpot operated 
on pure nitrogen. One important result was that the fuel moisture content dominated the fuel 
characteristics. Kersten et al. (2003) introduced a novel multistage CFB gasifier to carry out 
different processes in separate segments. Chen et al. (2004) integrates partial oxidation, fast 
pyrolysis, gasification, and tar cracking in a gasification system to increase the syngas heating 
value. Kinoshita et al. (2004) also conducted refuse derived fuel in a CFB gasifier. They 
created a dense bed at the bottom of the riser with the lower superficial gas velocity to 
maintain the residence time. Recently, Li et al. (2004) carried out gasification experiments of 
6 biomass fuels in a 10 cm I.D. and 6.5 m high CFB gasifier, and developed a modified 
phenomenological model to predict the performance of the CFB gasifier. It was concluded 
that the syngas composition and heating value were strongly dependent on the air ratio (O/C) 
and bed temperature. They also admitted that the real gasification process deviate from the 
chemical equilibrium after applying a non-stoichiometric equilibrium model. It implied that 
the gasification reaction is a complicated process. 
 Nevertheless, the appropriate gasifiers for applications in Taiwan at present are 
small-to-medium scales gasifiers (e.g. bubbling fluidized bed gasifiers) for biomass. In order 
to obtain more design and operation experiences in biomass gasification, a 300 kWth 
bubbling fluidized bed gasification pilot plant was constructed. In this preliminary study, the 
agricultural waste gasification tests were carried out in the 300 kWth gasifier to understand 
the operation process and syngas compositions by using waste cultivation-base of 
Flammulina velutipes as feedstock, and to obtain the performance information for the future 
improvement. 
 
DESIGN OF THE 300 kWth GASIFIER 
Configuration of the Gasifier 
The design of the gasifier for waste cultivation-base is based on a Flammulina velutipes 
farm in Taichung, Taiwan. Figure 1 shows the design concept of installing a gasifier in the 
farm. The syngas produced by gasification of waste cultivation-base can be co-fired as 
auxiliary fuels for boilers to generate steam. However, a small pilot gasifier connected to one 
boiler only was considered in the preliminary study. After calculation, a bubbling fluidized 
bed pilot gasifier with a capacity of 300 kWth (maximum feeding rate is 125 kg/hr) was 
constructed for this work. 
The gasification chamber, with a diameter of 0.38 m in the bed region, 0.50 m in the 
freeboard region, and a total high of 3.6 m, was constructed of refractory inside a gas-tight 
steel shell. A cylindrical windbox with a conical bottom connected to the air supplied line was 
fabricated of refractory. 
 
 − 599 −
A start-up burner is located above the distributor. LPG is used in the start-up burner. The 
hot syngas, leaving the gasifier at around 800 - 900oC, enters a cyclone for the primary 
cleaning. Ash and unburned char drop from the cyclone into a sealed vessel for removal. After 
exiting from the cyclone, syngas passes to the boiler. The syngas is sampled at the exit of the 
gasifier via a filter. Figure 2 shows the flow scheme of the test facility operated in this work.    
The components of the syngas, such as CO, CO2, H2 and CH4 are analyzed by employing 
an MTI M200 quad-series micro gas chromatograph (GC) during the steady state operation. 
 
Fuels and Bed Material 
The fuel used during gasification test runs was the used cultivation-base for Flammulina 
velutipes, an agricultural waste from Hoti Farm in Taichung, Taiwan. The size is between 0.25 
mm to 3 mm of diameter. It contains sawdust, sweet corn core, and rice bran with 45-55 wt% 
of moisture. The proximate and ultimate analyses of the waste cultivation-base are listed in 
Table 1. Silica sand was employed as the bed material in this study. The mean size of the sand 
was 0.437 mm in diameter. Its minimum fluidization velocity (Umf) was 18 cm/s. 
 
Table 1. Properties of waste cultivation-base. 
Proximate analysis (wt.%) Ultimate analysis (wt.%) 
Moisture 49.57  Carbon 47.85  
Volatile Matter, dry basis 72.35  Hydrogen 6.14  
Fixed carbon, dry basis 21.09  Oxygen 42.26  
Ash, dry basis 6.56  Nitrogen 2.27  
  Sulfur 1.34  
  Chlorine 0.15  
Wet base high heating value, HHV (MJ/kg) 
20.07 
 
OPERATION OF THE 300 kWth GASIFIER 
Operating procedure 
The operating procedure was that firstly the internals of the gasifier were heated up to 
around 550oC by burning LPG; secondary waste cultivation-base was fed into the gasifier as a 
combustion process (air equivalence ratio (ER) is 1.2 to 1.5) to increase the temperature of the 
reactor again up to 800-850oC; and finally the gasification condition is established by 
lowering the ER to below 0.5. Here the air equivalence ratio (ER) is defined as the ratio of the 
desired air flow rate to the stoichiometric air flow rate for complete combustion. A slight 
decrease in operation temperatures after establishing the gasification condition is caused by 
the endothermic reactions during the gasification. 
 
Syngas Compositions 
The preliminary tests were set up at ER = 0.38 (the feeding rate of the waste 
cultivation-base was 66.36 kg.) and each run was carried out for 30 minutes. The results show 
that the yields of the syngas was similar to the previous study (Chen et al., 2006) The previous 
work carried out in an 80 kWth bubbling fluidized bed gasification test rig, and the results 
showed that the yields of syngas, CO, H2 and CH4, decreased with increasing the air 
equivalence ratio, but that of CO2 showed the reverse tendency, shown in Fig. 3.  
The average heating value of the syngas in this work was about 3.06 MJ/m3. It was also 
