 2
二、緣由與目的 
隨著科技的進步，許多零組件愈趨微微型
化，而微小型、多功能、輕巧、易操作的
特性已經變成了科技時代的潮流。然而在
這趨勢的引導下，許多解決問題的對策與
方法在微型化機件的結構下變成不符合使
用，例如說用以解決機械運轉所產生的振
動與噪音問題，在大機件體中，常在機件
殼體加裝硬樑或者是外包隔音材質及改變
機件固定方式等來克服問題，但因為小機
件中外型尺寸受到限制而無法使用此方法
來克服振動與噪音問題，也因無法找出對
策而影響了許多開發的腳步甚至是放棄。
所以，在微型化機件中，振動與噪音的問
題便成了一個急需要探討的課題。微型步
進馬達的市場幾乎為日本與歐美國家所壟
斷，台灣幾家高科技開始投入開發此微型
步進馬達生產，現階段本國的微型步進馬
達有一重大的缺陷──振動與噪音太大，
尤其噪音大。 
本計劃研究的動機，是來自於微小型步進
馬達應用於科技產品中因傳動所產生的振
動與噪音問題。微型步進馬達在科技產品
中扮演著相當重要的角色，譬如目前當紅
的數位相機，其相機中用來傳動鏡頭達到
對焦與變焦功能的動力來源就是靠一顆微
型的步進馬達，而步進馬達轉動帶來了動
力相對的也帶來了振動與噪音，主要就是
因為現行微型機械系統沒有較有效的方法
來消除的振動與噪音問題。而為解決當前
問題絕大多數廠商都採用土法練鋼的方
法，就是增加機件的磨擦力來減低振動與
噪音。而這不是根本的解決之策，所以本
研究的重點就是如何在微型化的運轉機件
中，針對動力源（步進馬達）所產生的振
動與噪音問題，做有效的抑制。本研究將
從微型步進馬達的動作原理及其本體可能
產生的共振噪音點著手分析，計劃研究過
程中，後學擬採用振動與噪音方法分析，
分析後再由結構圖馬達本體結構加以設計
改變，以不改變外型尺寸為原則下，從馬
達內部找出抑制 
振動的有效結構，嘗試找出降低微型步進
馬達振動與噪音的方法。此外，驅動步進
馬達的控制器與程式也是影響馬達整體表
現的重點，本計劃中也將嘗試改變不同的
控制器與不同的控制程式來分析迴路及程
式與振動及噪音兩者間的相互關係，若能
找出有效的對策方法，將提升步進馬達作
功的效率。後學擬以下步驟分析： 
第一年： 分析微型步進馬達本體之振動與
噪音分析對策。 
第二年： 分析微型步進馬達系統(包括傳
動系統) 之振動與噪音分析對策。 
 
3. INTRODUCTION 
 In the electronic, aerospace and later 
biomedical industry, the micro motor was 
employed to drive micro and high precision 
system. From [1], more investigations as [2, 
3] develop successively many kinds of 
electrostatic micro motors, top-drive motor, 
side-drive motor, etc. in micro engineering 
application. Recently, more and more 
researched as [4-9] turned their attentions to 
analyze or simulate the dynamics of micro 
motor. Experimental and finite element 
analyses were also employed to investigate 
or simulate the dynamics or profiles of micro 
motor such in [10-12]. Almost of the above 
mentioned papers are focused on the design, 
dynamics of micro motor. Besides the 
dynamics, design and simulation for a micro 
motor; the noise has been study by few 
researchers as [13]. In a micro system or 
higher precision 3C products, the noise 
problem of a micro motor becomes more and 
more is appreciated and not to un-ignore, so 
it must be to depress. Because of small space 
found in a micro motor, most of methods for 
depressing noise can not be employed, such 
as noise source isolated. Therefore, the 
relation between vibration and noise analyses 
investigated to depress the noise is employed 
in this article. 
Stepper motors are usually employed 
in precision positioning applications. In 
many applications, stepper motors have been 
 4
this work. Besides study in the vibration, an 
investigation on noise of a micro motor is 
also the aim. Figure 1 shows the photograph 
of the micro motor. A permanent magnet 
type stepping motor with claw poles is 
considered to study. This micro motor is 
usually employed to drive the lens system of 
digital camera, but its noise and vibration is 
too large to accept for custom. Because of 
micro scale, the vibration is too small to 
measure by acceleration meter. Hence, a 
non-contact displacement measurement 
sensor, KAMAN KD2300-2S, is employed to 
measure vibration amplitude in a micro 
motor. To find the solution for noise and 
vibration depressed, the components and 
structure of micro motor must be studied. 
These components and assembly 
arrangement are shown in Fig. 2. In this 
figure, the bearing, coil spindle and housing 
are found. According to these components in 
this figure and results form investigation, the 
important effect component on noise and 
vibration in a micro motor may be found to 
depress the noise and vibration.  
For this vibration measurement, the 
experimental analysis setup sketch is 
displayed in Fig. 3. A non-contact sensor is 
used to measure the vibration in a micro 
motor. This sensor signal which is enlarged 
by a signal amplifier is processed to a 
vibration data by a HP 35670A spectrum 
 
 
 
Figure 2  A schematic diagram of the 
micro motor. (including bearing, coil spindle, 
housing) 
 
Figure 3 The setup of experimental analysis 
 
analyzer. For same reason, the similar 
experimental setup is considered for the 
noise measurement in this work. Because of 
micro scale for this motor, a probe 
microphone is employed to measure the 
sound pressure variations in a micro stepping 
motor. Similarly, the sensor signal is 
calculated and analyzed by this spectrum 
analyzer HP35670A.  
 
6. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
The noise in a micro motor was 
investigated in this study. For this 
investigation, a micro stepping motor, type 
No. SP8M15RLX, is selected to study. Some 
geometrical parameters in a sketch of the 
micro stepping motor are displayed in Fig. 4. 
This stepping motor is always used to drive 
the lens system of digital camera. To amend 
the micro motor quality, the noise of micro 
motor must be depressed, so the investigation 
in noise of micro motor is necessary to pay 
the attention on this problem. To find the 
solution for noise of a micro motor, the 
vibration analysis for this micro motor is 
necessary.  
For a micro motor, the spindle with a 
high rotating speed is a must, therefore, the 
rotating speed parameter is considered to 
study first. The variation in vibration of a 
micro motor with different rotating speed is 
illustrated in Fig. 5. In this study, the PPS, 
pulse per second, is employed as the unit of 
rotating speed. Time response of a micro 
motor with different rotating speed is plotted 
 6
 
 
 
 
-45
dBV
rms
-95
Mag (dB)
 A L kHz1050  Hz (Log)
Pwr Spec 1
X:200  Hz Y:-67.78 dBV
 
(b) with wax (1/3 oct) 
 
Figure 9 Noise of a coil blanketed with or 
without wax at 200 PPS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Noise of a micro stepping motor with 
different bearings. 
 
condition 
 
rotating speed 
Original 
(With copper 
bearings) 
With plastic 
bearings 
100pps 64 62 
200pps 64 61 
300pps 59 56 
400pps 58 56 
500pps 58 54 
600pps 57 53 
700pps 57 53 
800pps 54 52 
900pps 52 50 
 
 
Table 2 Noise of a micro stepping motor with 
and without wax. 
 
Condition
rotating speed 
Original 
(without wax) 
 
with wax 
   100pps 64 58 
200pps 64 56 
300pps 59 54 
400pps 58 52 
500pps 58 52 
600pps 57 50 
700pps 57 48 
800pps 54 46 
900pps 52 46 
 
 
amplitude of a micro motor at higher speed, 
600 PPS, is smaller than the motor at lower 
rotating speed, 100 PPS. Results indicate that 
the vibration amplitude of the micro motor is 
increased as this motor with a lower rotating 
speed. Figure 6 shows the frequency 
response of a micro motor. In the frequency 
domain, the vibration amplitude is decreased 
if the micro motor at higher speed in full 
frequency domain. As Figs. 5 and 6, it is 
found that the vibration amplitude is 
decreased as the motor at a higher rotating 
speed in time and frequency domains.  
From these results, the vibration 
amplitude is dependent on rotating speed. 
From the above analysis results, some 
rotating components in the micro motor may 
enlarge the vibration amplitude, so is the 
noised. It is clear that the rotating 
components may affect the vibration and 
noise significantly. Both bearings and coil 
are the important rotating components in this 
micro motor are considered to study in this 
work. First, effect of bearing on vibration 
amplitude is considered. Vibration amplitude 
of a micro with different bearings is 
 8
Transactions on Electron Devices 39(3): 
566–575 
6. Pelikant A; Wiak S; Komeza K (1998) 
Computer simulation of dynamic states of 
the silicon micromotor. Int J. Comput 
Math Elect Electron Eng 7: 307–312 
7. Endemano A; Fourniols JY; Camon H; 
Marchese A (2003) VHDL—AMS 
modelling and simulation of a planar 
electrostatic micromotor. J Micromech 
Microeng 13: 580–590 
8. Dufour I; Sarraute ES; Abbas A (1996) 
Optimization of the geometry of 
electrostatic micromotors using only 
analytical equations. J Micromech 
Microeng 6: 108–111 
9. Sangster AJ; Samper VD (1997) Accuracy 
assessment of 2-D and 3-D finite-element 
models of a double-stator electrostatic 
wobble motor. J Micromech Microeng 6: 
142–150 
10. Tai YC; Muller RS (1990) Frictional 
study of IC-processed micromotor. 
Sensors and Actuators 21:180–183 
11. Beerschwinger U; Milne NG; Yang SJ; 
Reuben RL; Sangster AJ; Ziad H (1994) 
Coupled electrostatic and mechanical 
FEA of a micromotor. J 
Microelectromech Syst 3: 162–171 
12. Beerschwinger U; Reuben RL; Yang SJ 
(1997) Frictional study of micromotor 
bearings. Sensors and Actuators A 63: 
229–241 
13. Xiangcheng Chu, Zengping Xing, Wen 
Gong, Longtu Li and Zhilun Gui, 2003, 
“Vibration analysis of stepping 
piezoelectric micro-motor using wiggle 
mode”, Materials Science and 
Engineering B, Volume 99, Issues 1-3, 25 
May 2003, Pages 306-308. 
14. T. Ishikawa, R. Takakusagi, M. 
Matsunami, IEEE Trans. Magn. 36 (2000) 
1854. 
15. Y. Kawase, A. Takehara, Digest ofIEEE 
CEFC’98, 1998p. 214. 
16. C.P. Liu, Y.C. Li, K.H. Liu, K.T. Wu, 
Y.D. Yao, J. Appl. Phys. 99 (2006) 
08R316.  
17. Zaman, M. T., Kumar, A. S., Rahman, M. 
and Sreeram, S, 2006, “A 
Three-Dimensional Analytical Cutting 
Force Model for Micro End Milling 
Operation,” International Journal of 
Machine Tools & Manufacture, Vol. 46, 
pp. 353-366. 
18. Michael, P. V., Shiv, G. K. and Richard, 
E. D., 2004, “On the Modeling and 
Analysis of Machining Performance in 
Micro-Endmilling, Part II: Cutting Force 
Prediction,” ASME, Journal of 
Manufacturing Science and Engineering, 
Vol. 126, pp. 695-705. 
19. J. Chae, S.S. Park, T. Freiheit, 2006, 
“Investigation of micro-cutting 
operations,” International Journal of 
Machine Tools & Manufacture, 46, pp. 
313–332. 
20. Chang-Ju Kim, J. Rhett Mayor and Jun 
Ni, 2004, “A Static Model of Chip 
Formation in Microscale Milling,” 
ASME, Journal of Manufacturing 
Science and Engineering, Vol. 126, 
710-718. 
21. Tansel, I. N., Arkan, T. T., Bao, W. Y., 
Mahendrakar, N. and Shisler, B., 2000, 
“Tool Wear Estimation in 
Micro-Machining. Part I: Tool 
Usage-Cutting Force Relationship,” 
International Journal of Machine Tools & 
Manufacture, 46, pp. 313–332. 
 
 
 
12th IFToMM World Congress, Besançon (France), June18-21, 2007                              
 
 
1
 
Effect of Crack on Dynamic Characteristics in a Drilling Process 
 
 B.- W. Huang * J.-H. Kuang† P.-P. Yu‡ 
 Cheng Shiu University National Sun Yat-Sen University Cheng Shiu University 
 Kaohsiung, TAIWAN Kaohsiung, TAIWAN Kaohsiung, TAIWAN
 Abstract—Effect of crack on the dynamic characteristics of 
a drill drilling through out a work-piece is investigated in this 
study. In manufacturing, drill breakage is frequently found in 
actual drilling process. To improve quality, produce a higher 
production rate and avoiding drill breakage, the dynamic 
characteristics in the drilling process must be studied, especially 
for a drill with cracks. A pre-twisted beam is used to simulate 
the drill. A moving Winkler-Type elastic foundation is used to 
approximate the drilling process, time dependent boundary. In 
this article, a time dependent vibration model for drilling is 
presented. The effects of crack, rotating speed, pre-twisted angle 
and thrust force of the drill are considered. Numerical analysis 
indicates that the vibration amplitude is enlarged suddenly as 
the drill moves into a work piece. Vibration amplitude of the 
drill with a crack become much larger than of that without 
cracks in drilling process is found. 
 
 Keywords: fracture, drilling process, vibration 
 
I. Introduction 
Drilling is one of the most commonly used cutting 
processes in manufacturing to produce many goods. A 
precisely drilled hole leads to a high quality product and 
its accuracy is based upon the drilling process. During this 
process, hole location errors, reaming and drill fracture 
occur. To improve the drilling performance and 
capabilities, it is necessary to understand the dynamic 
characteristics in the drilling process, especially for the 
drill with a crack. In this investigation, the effects of crack 
depth, rotation speed and thrust force properties are 
considered. 
The most common cause of drill failure is breakage. Drill 
breakage usually occurs because of excessive drilling 
force in the drilling process [1]. Only a few studies have 
been conducted on dynamic drilling process properties. 
Even if a given property leads to undesirable effects such 
as chatter and drill breakage etc., few investigators have 
turned their attention to this problem; presumably because 
such effects are always believed to be caused by the drill 
structure. Traditional drilling analysis has always focused 
on the drill itself, such as Refs. [2, 3]. Many papers, [4,5], 
reported the vibrations of a pre-twisted beam which angle 
and rotation speed on vibrations in the drill were 
__________________________________ 
*E-mail: huangbw@csu.edu.tw 
† E-mail: kuang@mail.nsysu.edu.tw 
‡ E-mail: practice@csu.edu.tw 
 
is used to model as a drill. The effects of the pre-twisted 
presented. The buckling load and natural frequency of a 
drill bit were also investigated, as [6, 7]. 
Cyclic fatigue during operation frequently causes cracks 
to appear in drill, [8, 9], especially in drilling composite, 
ceramic materials and micro holes. Cracks near the roots 
of the drill may change local flexibility and introduce into 
so-called local structures irregularity. Local cracks might 
not only affect the system’s dynamic behavior but also 
cause severe the drill breakage in drilling process. This 
study examines the effect of the crack depth on dynamic 
characteristics of a drill in drilling through a work-piece. 
During the preceding two decades, a number of studies 
[10, 11] reported that cracks might change the vibration 
behavior of a structure system.  
Mathematical models on complex drill bits to estimate 
the natural frequency or cutting properties were 
investigated by the previous researchers. The effects of 
complex geometry or the cutting chip on the cutting and 
dynamic drill bit properties were examined. Even a small 
variation in the geometry or symmetry could produce a 
very strong influence on the cutting and dynamic 
properties of a drill, such as [12]. Such models can 
provide useful information for drill bit design. In this 
paper, time dependent drilling process is focused to study. 
Hence, a consideration for a drill with the moving 
boundary is unavoidable. Recently, a structural system 
with moving masses, forces and boundaries was 
developed for these investigations, [13]. 
In an actual drilling process, the drill is frequently 
fractured as it penetrates into a work piece. The drilling 
force, especially the thrust force, will dominate the 
dynamic characteristics of a drill. For the sake of 
convenience, the time dependent thrust force 
( ) ( )* **s sP u t t u t t⎡ ⎤− − −⎣ ⎦ , axial force, is used to simulate 
the applied drilling force for a drill. The drilling boundary 
between the drill and the work piece must be considered. 
Two moving Winkler-Type elastic foundations are used to 
simulate the time dependent boundary in this study. The 
aim of this study is to examine the time dependent 
transverse vibrations in a drill whether to speed up the 
drill breakage if the drill has a crack. 
 
 
 
 
12th IFToMM World Congress, Besançon (France), June18-21, 2007                              
 
 
3
( )
4
0.923 0.199 1 sin
22 tan
2 cos
2
IF
πγ
πγγ πγπγ
⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞+ − ⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎛ ⎞ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦= ⎜ ⎟ ⎛ ⎞⎝ ⎠ ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
  (17) 
Adapting Eq. (13) gives 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
2
22 "
0 3 33 1
L
c xx c
L L
U E t I Q v r r drξ μ γ δ= − −∫  (18) 
where ( )cr rδ −  is the delta function and 
     ( ) ( )2
0
IQ F d
γ
γ πγ γ γ= ∫  (19) 
Similarly, using Hamilton’s principle can derive equations 
of motion for the cracked drill. It leads to 
2 2 3 32
2 2 2 2 2yy xy yy xy
u v u vEI EI I I
rr r r t r t r
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂ ∂∂ ∂+ − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
  
2
2
2 2 0
u v u
tt
μ μ μ∂ ∂+ − Ω − Ω =∂∂   (20) 
2 2 3 32
2 2 2 2 2xx xy xx xy
v u v uEI EI I I
rr r r t r t r
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂ ∂∂ ∂+ − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
  
     ( ) ( ) ( )2 06 1 cxxEI t Q v r rμ γ δ ″⎡ ⎤′′− − −⎣ ⎦  
2
2
2 2 0
v u v
tt
μ μ μ∂ ∂+ + Ω − Ω =∂∂   (21) 
 
Drilling through the workpiece  
An investigation of a drill with a crack in a drilling 
process is the purpose of this article. In a mathematical 
sense, a time dependent boundary and thrust force can be 
employed to simulate this drilling process. Hence, the 
moving boundary and time dependent thrust force were 
also employed in this article. To make the moving 
boundary more convenient, two moving Winkler-Type 
elastic foundations [17] were used to simulate the time 
dependent boundary, as shown in Fig. 1(b). From the 
above, the uniform distribution stiffness xxk  and yyk  can 
be modeled as these type of elastic foundations. Figure 
1(b) also shows the drilling process model. First of all, a 
conservative compressive force, 
( ) ( )* **s sP u t t u t t⎡ ⎤− − −⎣ ⎦ , is applied at the free end of the 
drill as drilled through the work piece. The work 
performed by this thrust force as the drill deformed is 
derived in  
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )2 2*
0
, ,1
2
L
p s
u r t v r t
W t Pu t t dr
r r
⎡ ⎤∂ ∂⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞⎢ ⎥= − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦∫  
( ) ( ) ( )2 2**
0
, ,1
2
L
s
u r t v r t
Pu t t dr
r r
⎡ ⎤∂ ∂⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞⎢ ⎥− − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦∫ (22) 
where ( )su  is the unit step function. The exact drilling 
time is denoted as *t  and **t  denotes the drilling 
throughout time. The moving boundary constraints are 
also considered. The strain energy caused by the elastic 
deformation of moving Winkler-Type elastic foundation 
can be displayed as 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )* * 2
0
12 ,
2
L
k xx s sU t k u r r u t t u r t
⎡= − −⎢⎣∫  
( ) ( ) ( )* * 21 ,2 yy s sk u r r u t t v r t dr⎤+ − − ⎥⎦   
( ) ( ) ( )** ** 2
0
12 ,
2
L
xx s sk u r r u t t u r t
⎡− − −⎢⎣∫  
( ) ( ) ( )** ** 21 ,2 yy s sk u r r u t t v r t dr⎤+ − − ⎥⎦  (23) 
where   
 ( ) ( ) ( )* * *sr t L f t t u t t= − × − −  (24) 
 ( ) ( ) ( )** ** **sr t L f t t u t t= − × − −  (25) 
As above, these time dependent thrust force and moving 
boundary constraints, are considered in the above 
equations. For the sake of convenience, the notation ( )tξ  
is used to denote the drilling displacement. This non-
dimensionless drilling displacement is written as follows 
 ( ) ( ) ( )* *sf t t u t tt
L
ξ × − −=  (26) 
If the drill drills throughout a work piece, the above 
displacement is rewritten as 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )* * ** **s sf t t u t t f t t u t tt
L L
ξ × − − × − −= −  (27) 
where, f  is the drill feed velocity.  
Both the time dependent thrust force and boundary are 
investigated. Hence, the equation of motion for the drill 
drilling throughout work piece can be rewritten as follows 
2 2 3 32
2 2 2 2 2yy xy yy xy
u v u vEI EI I I
rr r r t r t r
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂ ∂∂ ∂+ − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
  
( ) ( )2 2* **2 2s su uPu t t Pu t tr r∂ ∂+ − − −∂ ∂
( )( ) ( ) ( )( ) ( )* * ** **2 2xx s s xx s sk u r r t u t t u k u r r t u t t u+ − − − − −
2
2
2 2 0
u v u
tt
μ μ Ω μ Ω∂ ∂+ − − =∂∂   (28) 
2 2 3 32
2 2 2 2 2xx xy xx xy
v u v uEI EI I I
rr r r t r t r
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂ ∂∂ ∂+ − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
  
( ) ( )2 2* **2 2s sv vPu t t Pu t tr r∂ ∂+ − − −∂ ∂  
( ) ( ) ( )2 06 1 cxxEI t Q v r rμ γ δ ″⎡ ⎤′′− − −⎣ ⎦   
12th IFToMM World Congress, Besançon (France), June18-21, 2007                              
 
 
5
 
Fig. 2. Natural frequencies of a drill in drilling through a work 
piece. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.   Natural frequencies of a drill in drilling through a work 
piece with or without a crack. 
 
 
Fig. 4.   Natural frequencies of a drill in drilling process with 
different crack depths. 
 
(a) no cracks 
 
 
(b) with a crack 
Fig. 5. Time responses of a drill in the drilling process with or 
without a crack. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Frequency responses of a drill in drilling process. 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                         96 年  8 月 31 日 
報告人姓名 
 
黃柏文 
服務機構
及職稱 
正修科技大學機械工程系 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
June 17-21, 2007  
Besancon 
FRANCE 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC95-2221-E-230-006 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2007 第 12 屆全世界機構與機器科學研討會 
 (英文) 2007 The 12th World Congress in Mechanism and Machine Science 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 裂縫效應對鑚切過程之動態特性分析 
 (英文) Effect of Crack on Dynamic Characteristics in a Drilling Process     
Paper No.:352 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
6月17日開始在法國Besancon貝森松，法國工業的起源地之ㄧ舉辦的 IFToMM 2007
第12屆全世界機構與機器科學研討會。此研討會為全世界機構與機器原理學會 IFToMM
所舉辦，且此重要研討會為每四年所舉辦ㄧ次的大盛會，之中共有 18 個相關主題討論。
會議舉辦中亦舉辦會員大會。我國也是此學會的會員國，此次會議由我國學會理事長張
所紘教授所帶領出席。本次参與國際學術研討的我國研究學者人數之多佔全部各國参與
大會學者之前茅。此次研討會的主題有 
 
(1) Computational kinematics, Ck 
(2) Gearing and transmissions, Gt 
(3) Human-machine systems, Hms  
(4) Linkages and cams, Lc 
(5) Mechatronics, Me  
(6) Micromechanisms, Mm 
(7) Nonlinear oscillations, No 
(8) Robotics, Rb 
(9) Rotor dynamics, Rd 
(10) Transportation machinery, Tm 
(11) Reliability of machines and mechanisms, Rmm 
(12) Education, Ed 
(13) History of MMS, His 
(14) Biomechanics, Bio 
(15) Design methodology, Dm 
(16) Dynamics of machinery , Dy 
(17) Tribology, Tr 
(18) Multibody dynamics, Md 
 
 
 
附件三
 
表 Y04 
 
 
 
三、建議 
  機械工業朝向小型，機密與快速是一全球的趨勢，在機構與機械領域也ㄧ樣。會議中不少
論文在探討機械奈米化的問題。國際上投入此研究學者眾多，期望本國研究學者專家能在此
領域上迎頭趕上並佔有一席之地。臨近國家的專家學者皆十分踴越參加此學術活動，尤其對
岸的大陸也有不少篇論文發表，建議 主管鈞部能多多鼓勵國內專家參與。因為全世界機構與
機器原理學會是一國際重要的學術組織，我國也是其中ㄓㄧ會員。正當大陸極力阻止台灣参
與國際活動之時，更要鼓勵國內學者参與此學會各項活動以確保台灣的會籍。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
  論文資料，及其他廠商的研究成果與新技術資料。 
 
五、其他 
附上此國際會議之論文 
 
751 Kinetostatic comparison of a noncircular gear and a double-crank linkage with  
 the same transmission ratio 
H. F. Quintero (Universidad Tecnologica de Pereiran, Colombia), S. Cardona (Universitat Politecnica  
de Catalunya), L. Jordi, L. V. Vanegas (Universidad Tecnologica de Pereira)  
 
 ROOM 3  ROBOTICS (RB-1) 
          
84 Temperature-Induced Deformation in a Mechanical System  
Pranchalee Poonyapak (Carleton University, Canada), M. John D. Hayes, J. Moyra J. Mc Dill 
399 Reangularity: cross-coupling kinetostatic index for parallel robots  
Grigore Gogu ( Blaise Pascal University,  France)  
475 Multivectors and Quaternions in Rigid Body Rotation: Clifford vs Hamilton  
Joe Rooney (The Open University, U.K.) 
473 Architectures of Translational Parallel Mechanism for MEMS Fabrication 
 Hagay Bamberger (Technion, Rafael, Irael), Alon Wolf, Moshe Shoham   
370 Force and Stiffness Analyses of Wire-Actuated Parallel Manipulators  
Sureyya Sahin (Queen's University, Canada), Leila Notash  
40 Partially Decoupled Parallel Manipulators Based on Multiple Platforms 
Oscar Altuzarra (University of the Basque Country, Spain), Maider Loizaga, Victor Petuya, Enrique Amezua 
 
 ROOM 4  ROBOTICS (RB-12) 
          
593 Worm-Like Locomotion Systems at the TU Ilmenau  
Carsten Behn (Technische Universitaet Ilmenau, Germany), Klaus Zimmermann   
602 Modelling of a Spherical Robotic Wrist with Euler Parameters  
Shaoping Bai (Aalborg University, Denmark), Michael R. Hansen 
487 Dynamics and Control of a One-legged 2-D SLOM Hopping Robot  
Ajij Sayyad (IIT Bombay, India), Bharatendu Seth, Kurien Issac  
847 Endoscope Kinematics  
Harvey Lipkin (Georgia Tech Research Institute, USA), Jomkwon Munnae, Gary McMurray,  
Debao Zhou, Wayne Daley 
524 Redundancy resolution using a tractrix and its application to real-time simulations of  
hyper-redundant manipulators, snakes and tying of knots  
S. Sreenivasan (IISc Bangalore, India), Piyush Goe, Ashitava Ghosal 
144 Dynamic Parameter Identification of Parallel Robots Considering Physical Feasibility and  
Nonlinear Friction Models  
Nidal Farhat (Universidad Politecnica de Valencia, Spain), Miguel-Angel Diaz (Universidad de Los  
Andes, Merida, Venezuela), Vicente Mata (Universidad Politecnica de Valencia, Spain)  
 
 ROOM 5  LINKAGES AND CAMS (LC-1) 
          
866 Introductory Analysis of an Innovative Volumetric Rotary Machine 
Giovanni Mimmi (Universita degli studi di Pavia, Italy), Giovanni Bonandrini, Carlo Rottenbacher 
653 Synthesis of Eight-Bar Linkages as Mechanically Constrained Parallel Robots 
Gim Song Soh (University of California,USA), J. Michael McCarthy 
562 An-AHP Based Approach to Type Selection of Mechanisms for Periodic-Function  
Generation 
Fikri Dweiri (Jordania), Abdullah Dwairi, Omar Ashour 
967 Non-conventional mechanisms based on elastic deformations 
G. Dobre (Univ. Politehnica, Romania), R.F. Mirica, M. Neacsa, C. Sandu (TMCP, Bucharest) 
373 A Systematic Procedure to Count the Number of Mechanisms Subject to Design  
Constraints 
ChihChing Hung (National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan), HongSen Yan, Gordon.R. Pennock  
65 The Design of Planar and Spatial Mechanism Models Following the Rules of  
 Similarity Mechanics 
 Hanfried Kerle (IWF, Germany), Mathias Krefft (IAV), Christoph Budde (IWF)  
493 Polyhedra with articulated faces 
 Thierry Laliberté (University Laval, Canada), Clément Gosselin  
717 Systematic Analyses of Forward Dynamics of Planar Closed-loop Mechanisms 
 Nobuyuki Iwatsuki (Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan)  
397 The Displacement Analysis of a Concentric Double Universal Joint 
 Chen-Chou Lin (National Taiwan Ocean University, Taiwan), Wei-Kai Liao  
 
ROOM 2  GEARINGS AND TRANSMISSIONS (GT-2) 
 
414 Review of Researches on Ring-plate Gear Reducers with Small Tooth Number Difference 
 Zhang Ce (Tianjin University, P.R. China), Song Yimin, Zhang Jun         
544 A mild hybrid engine-solid oxide fuel cell vehicle configuration using a continuously  
variable power-split transmission 
Miguel Gomez (West Virginia University, Mexico), Victor Mucino,James Smith, Carlos Lopez-Cajun 
(Universidad Autonoma de Querotaro)  
385 Contact Characteristics of Spherical Gears  
Li-Chi Chao (Taiwan), Chung-Biau Tsay   
422 Assessing the Condition of Gear Units by means of Vibrations  
Ales Belsak (University of Maribor, Slovenia), Joze Flasker  
406 Simple techniques for measuring the base helix angle of involute gears  
Carlo Innocenti (University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy)  
278 Researches on Key Technologies in Optimization Design of Ring-Plate Gear Reducer 
 Song Yimin (Tianjin University, P.R. China), Zhang Jun, Zhang Ce    
502 Rigid Space Curve Mesh Theory and Its Kinematics Experiment  
Y.Z. Chen (South China University of Technology, China), G.Q. Xing, X.F. Peng  
 
ROOM 3  ROBOTICS (RB-2) 
          
200 Mobility Determination of Displacement Set Fully Parallel Platforms  
José M. Rico (Universidad de Guanajuato, Mexico), J. Jesus Cervantes, Gerardo I. Perez (Instituto 
Tecnologico de la Laguna), Juan Rocha (Universidad de Guanajuato), Alejandro Tadeo 
(Instituto Tecnologico Superior de Irapuato)  
83 Singularity analysis of parallel manipulator POLMAN 3x2 with six degrees of freedom 
 Krzysztof Mianowski (Warsaw University of Technolog, Polandy)  
17 Actuation scheme for a 6-DOF Kinematically Redundant Planar Parallel Manipulator 
Iman Ebrahimi (University of New Bunswick, Canada), Juan A. Carretero, Roger Boudreau  
(Universite de Moncton)  
103 A System for Tension Monitoring in Cable-Based Parallel Architectures  
Erika Ottaviano (University of Cassino, Italy) 
428 An Application of an Hybrid Robot in the Total Knee Replacement Procedure 
Stefano Bruni (Politecnico di Milano, Italy), Pietro Cerver, Ivan Espinosa   
66 Design and analysis of a mechanism actuating a sight device  
Tarik Saidouni (EMP, Algeria), Mokrane Bessaoud, Ahmed Terki 
99 Parallel Robots with Adaptronic Components - Design Through Different Knowledge  
Domains 
Carsten Stechert (Institute of Engineering Design, Germany), Nenad Pavlovic, Hans-Joachim Franke 
 
 
 
 
922 Reliability Assessment for Components of Complex Mechanisms and Machines  
Michal Vintr (Brno University of Technology, Czech Republic) 
294 Machines and Mechanisms Design for Reliability  
Anthony Hahnel (Renault S.A.S. France), Maurice Lemaire,  François Rieuneau), Frédéric Petit 
 
ROOM 7  MULTIBODY DYNAMICS (MD-1) 
          
464 Sensitivity Analysis of Inertia Parameters in Multibody Dynamics Simulations 
Peter Eberhard (University of Stuttgart, Germany), Werner Schiehlen, Juergen Sierts 
210 Multibody simulations of trolleybus vertical dynamics and influences of tire radial  
characteristics 
 Pavel Polach (Skoda Research Ltd., Czech Republic), Michal Hajzman  
788 Design of a passive vibration isolation bearing using a multidimensional viscoelastic  
model 
 Juan Jauregui (CIATEQ, Mexico), Oscar Gonzalez, Eduardo Rubio  
 
304 An influence of disk counterweight orientation on dynamic balancing of spherical four bar 
mechanism  
Krzysztof Lipinski (Gdansk University of Technology, Poland) 
923 Dynamic analysis of rolling bearing system using Lagrangian model Vs. FEM code 
Higinio Rubio (Universidad Carlos III, Spain), Juan Carlos Garcia-Prada, Cristina Castejon, 
 Edwin Laniado  
902 Information gain quantification in structural dynamic 
Emmanuel Pillet (FEMTO-ST, France), Noureddine Bouhaddi, Scott Cogan  
571 Modelling Three-Dimensional Rigid-Flexible Multibody Systems by Using Absolute  
Coordinates 
Daniel Garcia-Vallejo (University of Seville, Spain), Juana Maoy, José Luis Escalona, Jaime Domenguez  
 
June 18, Monday – 16:40-18:40 
 
 ROOM 1  COMPUTATIONAL KINEMATICS (CK-3) 
          
941 A 1-Dof parallel spherical wrist for the modelling of the knee passive motion 
Nicola Sancisi (University of Bologna, Italy), Vincenzo Parenti Castelli   
936 From Dexterity to Calibrability of Parallel Kinematical Structures 
Michael Valasek (CTU, Czech Republic), Zbynek Sika, Vojtech Hamrle 
432 HexaSpine : A Parallel Platform for Physical Cervical Spine Simulation - Design  
and Interval-Based Verification 
Kusnadi Liem (University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany), Andres Kecskemethy, Jean-Pierre Merlet (INRIA)  
743 Singularity of Gough-Stewart platforms with collinear joints 
Patricia Ben-Horin (Technion, Israel), Moshe Shoham   
234 Dimensional Synthesis of 3-URU Pure Rotational Parallel Mechanism with Respect to  
Singularity and Workspace 
Syamsul Huda (Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan), Yukio Takeda   
441 Singularity Loci of Revolute-Jointed Planar Parallel Manipulators with Redundant    
Actuated Branches 
Flavio Firmani (University of Victoria, Canada), Ron Podhorodeski 
 
 ROOM 2  GEARING AND TRANSMISSIONS (GT-3) 
          
60 Transmission Error in Helical Synchronous Belt Drives in Bidirectional Operation  
(Influence of Error in Belt Side Face, Theoretical Analysis)  
Masanori Kagotani (Osaka Sangyo University, Japan), Hiroyuki Ueda, Satoru Ue  
480 Synthesis strategy for deployable structures  
Uwe Hanke (Technische University Dresden, Germany), Karl-Heinz Modler, Song Lin    
394 Non-circular gear wheels in the geared-linkages mechanisms  
Erwin-Christian Lovasz (Universitatea "Politehnica" din Timisoara, Romania), Karl-Heinz Modler  
(Technische Universitaet Dresden), Dan Perju (Universitatea "Politehnica" din Timisoara), 
 Rudolf Neumann (Technische Universitaet Dresden), Dan Margineanu (Universitatea "Politehnica"  
din Timisoara), Michael Perner (Technische Universitaet Dresden)  
461 Geometric identification of a car suspension mechanism based on part displacement analysis 
Julien Meissonnier (LaMI, France), Jean-Christophe Fauroux, Grigore Gogu, Cédric Montezin (Michelin) 
106 Lifting Manipulators for a Green Environment  
Ovidiu Antonescu (Politehnica University of Bucharest, Romania), Daniela Mihalache (Iuliu Maniu 
Highschool of Bucharest), Paun Antonescu (Politehnica University of Bucharest)  
608 Study on A New Type of Indexing Mechanism  
Yang Yuhu (Tianjin University, P.R. China), Zhou Bin, Liu Jianping, Shen Yu, Xiang Zhongxia 
 
 ROOM 6  MECHATRONICS (ME-2) 
          
199 Towards a concurrent optimization of mechatronic systems with configuration-dependent  
dynamics 
Maira Martins Da Silva (Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium), Wim Desmet, Hendrik Van Brussel  
697 Efficiency of Solid State Mechanical Elements with Rubber-Metal Bearings 
 Eugene Rivin (Wayne State University, U.S.A.)  
787 Realtime Friction Estimation using the Kalman Inverse Filter 
 Ross McAree (University of Queensland, Australia), Kevin Austin (CRC Mining)  
759 Ultra-precision machine tool or coordinate measuring machine using hexapod-type  
measurement device for six degree-of-freedom relative motions between cutting tool/probe  
and workpiece 
 Takaaki Oiwa (Shizuoka University, Japan)  
644 Comparison of Kalman algorithms for MEMS based pitch and roll angle estimation 
Simo Mattila (TKK, Finland), Petri Kuosmanen  
755 Desing and control of a pump for extracorporeal blood circulation  
Ana Gabriela Gallardo-Hernandez (Universidad Autonoma de Queratro, Mexico), Carlos Santiago Lopez-
Cajun 
 
 ROOM 7  MULTIBODY DYNAMICS (MD-2) 
          
391 Model Reduction of Large Elastic Systems: A Comparison Study on the Elastic Piston Rod   
Panagiotis Koutsovasilis (Fahrzeugmodellierung und -simulation / TU Dresden, Germany), Michael 
Beitelschmidt 
14 Kinematic and dynamic computation of vehicle transmission based on regular constructs 
Vladimir Algin (National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, Belarus), Valentin Ivanov (Belarusian National  
Technical University)  
255 Modeling of a Rack and Pinion Steering Linkage Using Multi-Body Dynamics  
Ali Rahmani Hanzaki (Shahid Rajaee University, Tehran), Subir Kumar Saha (IIT Delhi), P.V.M. Rao  
651 Application of multibody dynamics to the curving behaviour of railroad vehicles 
 José Escalona (Spain), Juan Valverde, Rosario Chamorro  
746 Experimental Validation of a Methodology for Torsional Vibration Analysis on Internal  
Combustion Engines  
Pablo Meirelles (UNICAMP, Brazil), Douglas Zampieri, Alexandre Mendes (MWM International Motores)  
138 Automated Selection of Modelling Coordinates for Multibody System Dynamics 
Mathieu Leger (University of Waterloo, Canada), John McPhee 
 
 
423 Searching Ancient Inventions from Modern Techniques-A Research of Walking Horses with  
8-Link Type Leg Mechanisms  
Yu-Gang Chen (Far East University, Taiwan), Meng-Hui Hsu (Kun Shan University)  
181 Design Evolution of Low-Cost Humanoid Robot CALUMA  
Nestor Eduardo Nava Rodriguez (University of Cassino, Italy), Giuseppe Carbone, Marco Ceccarelli  
 
08:30 – 10:10 
 ROOM 4  ROBOTICS (RB-14) 
          
801 Singularity free change of assembly mode in parallel manipulators. Application to the  
3-RPR planar platform 
Erik Macho (UPV/EHU, Spain), Oscar Altuzarra, Charles Pinto, Alfonso Hernandez  
831 A comparison of indices for stiffness performance evaluation  
Giuseppe Carbone (University of Cassino, Italy), Marco Ceccarelli 
 908 Kinematic design of a gravity compensated robot for device for ultrasound examination and 
assessment of endothelial dysfunction.  
Massimiliano Solazzi (Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Italy), Antonio Frisoli, Massimo Bergamasco, Edoardo 
Sotgiu  
914 A semi-analytical stiffness model of parallel robots from the Isoglide family via the sub- 
structuring principle  
Rani Rizk (LaMI, France), Mircea Munteanu (Transilvania University of Brasov), Jean-Christophe Fauroux  
(LaMI), Grigore Gogu  
865 One-Mode Extra Insensitive Input Shapers to Reduce Residual Vibration in Flexible Arms : 
Experimental Verification  
Giovanni Mimmi (Universita degli studi di Pavia, Italy), Carlo Rottenbacher, Giovanni Bonandrini 
 
08:10 – 10:10 
 ROOM 5  NONLINEAR OSCILLATIONS (NO-1) 
          
297 An investigation of pose-dependent regenerative chatter for a parallel kinematic machine tool 
Christoph Henninger (University of Stuttgart, Germany), Peter Eberhard 
378 Periodic rotatios of rollers of vibrating qualifiers at the main resonance 
 Victor Ostapenko (Dnepropetrovsk National University, Ukraine) 
334 Dynamics of Gear Differential with One Input Only  
Konstantin Ivanov (Kazakh National Technical University, Kazakhstan)  
476 Vibration isolation of wiring boards in products of electronics  
V. Strelbitsky R.Silin (Ukraine), V. Royzman (Khmelnitskiy National University) 
575 A Dynamic Model of a Spur Gear Pair with Friction  
Ahmet Kahraman (Ohio State University, U.S.A.), Jae-Hyuk Lim, Huali Ding  
365 Nonlinear coupling dynamic model of a motor-linkage mechanism system with links  
fabricated from symmetric laminates  
Gan-Wei Cai (Guangxi University, P.R. China), Zhao-Jun Li (Huazhong University of Science & Technology),  
Ru-Gui Wang (Guangxi University)  
 
08:30 – 10:10 
 ROOM 6  MECHATRONICS (ME-3) 
          
274 Position control of flexible parallelogram five-bar manipulator using piezoelectric sensors  
and actuators  
Krishnarao D. Dhuri (IIT Bombay, India), P. Seshu   
224 A pneumotronic unit for automatic manipulation of book material  
Ravina Enrico (University of Genoa, Italy)  
 
Jianping Wang (China), Yuxin Wang    
10 Mathematical modelling of gearbox nonlinear vibration  
Vladimir Zeman (Czech Republic), Miroslav Byrtus   
754 Some aspects of spur gear dynamics as revealed by path integration  
Arvid Naess (CeSOS-NTNU, Norway), Eirik Mo (NTNU), Finn Erik Kolnes  
451 Contributions to kinematics analysis of bevel planetary gears  
Victor Moise (University Politehnica of Bucharest, Romania), Iulian Alexandru Tabara  
966 Multi-physics approach to design analysis of powertrain sub-systems  
M. Teodorescu (City University, U.K.), S. Theodossiades (Loughborough University), H. Rahnejat  
970 On the distribution of the profile shift coefficients between mating gears in the case of  
cylindrical gear  
R.F. Mirica (University Politehnica, Romania), G. Dobre 
 
 ROOM 3  ROBOTICS (RB-5) 
          
350 MRI-compatibility of a Manipulator using a Spherical Ultrasonic Motor  
Tomoaki Mashimo (Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Japan), Shigeki Toyama   
392 Improvement of functional performance of spatial parallel manipulators using mechanisms  
of variable structure  
Vigen Arakelian (INSA de Rennes, France), Sébastien Briot, Victor Glazunov (Russian Academy of Sciences) 
238 Modeling of motion of vibrating robots  
Sergey Jatsun (Kursk State Technical University, Russia), Nikolay Bolotnik (Instituion of Problems in 
 Mechanics), Klaus Zimmermann (Ilmenau Technical University), Igor Zeidis   
24 Type synthesis of 3-DOF linear translational parallel manipulators  
Xianwen Kong (Université Laval, Canada), Clément Gosselin  
82 Tracking Control of a Planar Parallel Robot via Adaptive Backstepping  
Li Wang (Lakehead University, Canada), Xiaoping Liu, Kefu Liu  
395 Existence d'une infinité non dénombrable de positions isotropes pour les manipulateurs série  
5R sphériques  
Khaled Akrout (Ecole Polytechnique de Montréal, Canada), Luc Baron, Xiaoyu Wang  
 
 ROOM 4  ROBOTICS (RB-15) 
          
730 A model to predict the deployment of a space hexapod  
Gwenaelle Aridon (INSA Lyon, France), Didier Rémond, Laurent Blanchard (Alcatel Alénia Space), 
Régis Dufour (INSA Lyon) 
882 Sub-Optimal Motion Planner of Mobile Manipulators along the End-effectors Specified  
Paths 
 Moussa Haddad (Algeria), Samir Hanchi, H.E. Lehtihet  
884 Trajectory planning of a two-link rehabilitation robot arm  
Giulio Rosati (Padua University, Italy), Giorgio Volpe, Andrea Biondi, Giovanni Boschetti, Aldo Rossi 
814      Kiinematic Analysis of Front Suspension of an Automobile and Prediction of Steering  
Behaviour 
Jayant Modak (India), Pramod Belkhode 
964 Position and Orientation Characteristic Equation For Topological Synthesis of Robot  
Mechanisms 
Ting-Li Yang (SINOPIC Jinling Petrochemical Corp.), An-Xin Liu (Nanjing Engineering Institute),  
Qiong Jin (Southeast University), Yu-Feng Luo (Nanchang University), Hui-Ping Shen (Jiangsu  
Institute  of Technology), Lu-Bin Hang (Shanghai Jiaotong University) 
890 Studies on the Steering of a Single-degree-of-freedom Hexapod  
Vinayak (Punjab Engineering College, India), Dibakar Sen (Indian Institute of Science, India)  
 
745 Mathematical Model for Torsional Vibration Analysis on Internal Combustion Engines 
Pablo Meirelles (UNICAMP, Brazil), Douglas Zampieri, Alexandre Mendes (MWM International Motores) 
 
June 19, Tuesday – 14:00-15:00  
 
CONFERENCE HALL KEYNOTE LECTURE (KEY) 
 
KEY 2 The Specificity of Traction Motors for Railways Application 
Dominique Jamet (Alstom, France) 
 
June 19, Tuesday – 15:05-16:45 
 
 ROOM 1  ROBOTICS (RB-6) 
          
150 Initial Test of a Wire-Driven Parallel Suspension System for Low Speed Wind Tunnels 
 Yaqing Zheng (Huaqiao University)  
413 Collision free control of redundant manipulators in a task space 
Miroslaw Galicki (Friedrich Schiller University, Germany) 
6 On the Sudden Change of Joint Velocity During Fault Tolerant Operations for Manipulators with 
Multiple Degrees of Redundancy  
Jing Zhao (Beijing University of Technology, China), Dengdian Feng 
362 6-DOF isotropic parallel manipulators with three PPSR or PRPS chains  
Kao Yueh Tsai (Ntust, Taiwan), Ting Kuan Lee   
757 A Coordination Scheme for an Asymmetrically Running Quadruped 
 Kenneth Waldron (Stanford University, U.S.A.) 
 
 ROOM 2  GEARING AND TRANSMISSIONS (GT-6) 
          
599 Processing of Screw Motion Tooth-Gears  
Nadejda Prokhorova (Aleksandrov Branch of Russian New University, Russia)  
595 Modeling of Cylinder-Conical and Cylinder-Hypoid Gear Transmissions 
 Nadejda Prokhorova (Aleksandrov Branch of Russian New University, Russia)  
119 Constraint analysis of pressure angle of involute elliptical gears  
Shanming Luo (Hunan University of Science and Technology, China)), Anhua Chen, Yue Wu  
(University of Exeter)  
640 Dynamic Optimization of spur gears  
Marcello Faggioni (University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy), Francesco Pellicano,  
Gabriele Bertacchi, Angelo Andrisano  
252 Gear Abrasion and Impact Result from System Vibration 
Zhixin Han (Lanzhou University of Technology, China), Xinqiang Fan (Lanzhou City College) 
 
 ROOM 3  TRANSPORTATION MACHINERY (TM-2) 
          
822 Modelling the longitudinal dynamics of long freight trains during the braking phase 
Luca Pugi (University of Florence, Italy), Duccio Fioravanti, Andrea Rindi 
957 Lateral Running of flat belts: The Angled, Conical Pulley  
Martin Egger (FH-Wels, Austria), Klaus Hoffmann (TU-Wien,Wien)    
100 Improving skid-steering on a 6x6 all-terrain vehicle: A preliminary experimental study  
Jean-Christophe Fauroux (LaMI, IFMA, UBP, France), Philippe Vaslin (LIMOS, UBP), Guillaume Douarre  
(IFMA) 
 José Luis Munoz, Juan Manuel Munoz  
 
 
 ROOM 7  HISTORY OF MMS (HIS-2) 
          
419 Mechanism of "Man-nen dokei," a Historic Perpetual Chronometer Part1: Celestial  
Globe and Japanese Traditional Clock  
Yasuhiro Yokota (Toshiba R&D Center, Japan), Kazuyoshi Suzuki (National Science Museum), 
 Mitsunobu Yoshida (Toshiba R&D Center), Takehiro Hato, Yuji Kubota 
420 Mechanism of "Man-nen dokei," a Historic Perpetual Chronometer – Part 2 : Power Supply 
Takehiro Hato (Toshiba R&D Center, Japan), Kazuyoshi Suzuki (National Science Museum), Yoichi Tomii  
(Kyoto University), Mitsunobu Yoshida (Toshiba R&D Center), Yasuhiro Yokota, Yuji Kubota 
70 On the Teaching of Mechanical in The Netherlands in the early 19th Century : The Work  
of G. J. Verdam (1802-1866)  
Wijnand Rekers (Vrije Universiteit, The Netherlands), Teun Koetsier  
379 Machines imitating living creatures motion : historical overview  
Teresa Zielinska (Warsaw University of Technology, Poland) 
236 Renaissance of machines: from Brunelleschi to Galilei through Francesco di Giorgio  
and Leonardo 
 Marco Ceccarelli (University of Cassino, Italy)  
 
June 19, Tuesday – 17:00-19:00 
 
 ROOM 1  ROBOTICS (RB-7) 
          
109 The Class of Hybrid Parallel Mechanisms 3(JRS)  
Alexandru Nastase (Univ. "Dunarea de Jos" Galati, Romania)  
329 Force-Moment Capabilities of Redundantly-Actuated Planar-Parallel Architectures 
Scott Nokleby (University of Ontario, Canada), Flavio Firmani (University of Victoria), Alp Zibil, Ron 
Podhorodeski  
398 Modeling of the Bennett's linkage as leg of a mobile robot   
A.A. Oliveira Jr (Federal University of Uberlandia, Brazil), J.C.M. Carvalho  
780 The Design of High Precision Parallel Mechanisms using Binary Actuation and Elastic  
Averaging : With Application to MRI Cancer Treatment  
Lauren De Vita (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, U.S.A.), J.S. Plante, Steven Dubowsky 
673 Dynamics analysis of a 5-UPS/PRPU parallel machine tool  
Yongsheng Zhao (Yanshan University, P. R. China), Yulei Hou, Yi Shi, Ling Lu   
560 Semi-Analytical Approach for Stiffness Estimation of PKM having Complex Machine Frames 
Youyu Wang (Tianjin University, P.R. China)), Tian Huang, Derek G. Chetwynd (Warwick University) 
 
 ROOM 2  GEARING AND TRANSMISSIONS (GT-7) 
          
667 Test Research on Two Motors Driven Double Crank Ring-Plate-Type Pin-Cycloid-Gear  
Planetary Drive  
Weidong He (Dalian Jiaotong University, China), Lixing Li, Xin Li (University of Maryland, USA)  
159 Fast determination of global and local parameters for reducing transmission error of helical  
gears 
Jean-Pierre De Vaujany (INSA de Lyon, France), Michèle Guingand, Yann Hiltcher   
421 A Regularization Method for Hypoid Gear Synthesis Using the Invariant Approach 
Marco Gabiccini (Universita di Pisa, Italy), Alessio Artoni, Francesca Di Puccio, Massimo Guiggiani  
632 Gear vibration reduction using genetic algorithms  
Marco Barbieri (University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy), Giorgio Bonori, Giorgio Scagliarini, 
polishing  
Jianbin Luo (China), Dan Guo  
68 Influence of Machine Tool Setting Parameters on EHD Lubrication in Hypoid Gears 
 Vilmos Simon (Budapest University of Technology, Hungary) 
793 Chemical-mechanical polishing of Ni-P plated AlMg alloy substrates for high-density  
perpendicular magnetic recording  
Weiming Lee (R & D, Dept. Kaifa Magnetic Recording Co., P.R. China), Zuqing Qi, Wanjia Lu  
547 Opening Force Analytical Model for Dynamic Response Analysis of Hydrodynamic Face Seal 
Ke Liu (Tsinghua University, China), Ying Liu, Xiangfeng Liu 
 
 ROOM 7  ROTOR DYNAMICS (RD-1) 
          
485 A Low Cycle Fatigue Analysis on a Steam Turbine Bladed Disk-Case Study  
José Carlos Pereira (Federal University of Santa Catarina, Brazil), Luiz Augusto de Mello Torres (Tractebel 
 Energia S. A.), Edison Dda Rosa (Federal University of Santa Catarina), Helder Bindewald   
175 Dynamic Analysis of the Rotor-Stator Contact due to Blade Loss  
Sanjin Braut (University of Rijeka, Croatia), Roberto Zigulic, Ante Skoblar, Goranka Stimac,  
Mirko Butkovic, Marko Jokic (Polytechnic of Karlovac, Croatia) 
627 Modeling, Simulation and Testing of Gas Bearing Kit  
Vytautas Barzdaitis (Kaunas University of Technology, Lithuania), Vytautas Zemaitis, Vytautas Barzdaitis 
(Vytautas Magnus University) 
318 New Theory of Rotor Dynamics: Dynamics of Jeffcott Rotor with Moment Unbalance 
 Alexandr Zhivotov ("Yuzhnoye" Design Office, Ukraine) 
438 A subspace approach for the analysis of blade tip timing data  
Bendali Salhi (FEMTO-ST,  France), Joseph Lardies, Marc Berthillier, Philippe Voinis, Charles Bodel  
349 Analytic, numeric and experimental study of hydrostatic journal bearings behaviour for  
grinding machines  
Harkaitz Urreta (MGEP, Basque Country), Mikel Zubieta, Maria Jesus Elejabarrieta, Hugo Salinas 
(IDEKO), Mounir Bou-Ali (MGEP) 
 
June 20, Wednesday – 08:10 – 10:10 
 
 ROOM 1  ROBOTICS (RB-8) 
          
537 Obtaining Adjacent Configurations with Minimum Time Considering Robot Dynamics  
Fares Abu-Dakka (Universidad Politecnica de Valencia, Spain), Francisco Valero, Allan Tubaileh (Birzeit 
University), Francisco Rubio (Universidad Politecnica de Valencia)  
707 Singularity Based Calibration of 3-DOF Fully Parallel Planar Manipulators  
Philipp Last (IWF, TU Braunschweig, Germany), Daniel Schuetz, Annika Raatz, Juergen Hesselbach 
549 An algebraic formulation of exact force-, moment-isotropy in spatial parallel manipulators 
Sandipan Bandyopadhyay (Indian Institute of Science, India), Ashitava Ghosal  
655 Special new configuration of wheeled robot to work over uneven terrain : sand, mud and snow 
 Teodor Akinfiev (IAI CSIC, Spain), Manuel Armada, Adriana Ramirez   
538 Type Synthesis of 3T1R Fully-Parallel Manipulators Using a Group-Theoretic Approach 
Oscar Salgado (Spain), Oscar Altuzarra, Victor Petuya, Hernandez Alfonso  
496 A multi-objective optimization for designing service robots 
Cristina Castejon (Spain), Giuseppe Carbone, Juan Carlos Garcia-Prada, Marco Ceccarelli  
 
 ROOM 2  GEARING AND TRANSMISSIONS (GT-8) 
          
782 Toward a greater industrial application of variable radius gearing 
Guido A. Danieli (University of  Calabria, Italy)  
860 A Task Specific Kinematic Design Methodology with Application to a 4-DOF Haptic Interface 
Ulrich Spaelter (Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Suisse), Hannes Bleuler  
434       Methodology of evaluating the driver's attention and vigilance level in an automobile  
transportation using intelligent sensor architecture and fuzzy logic  
Alessandro Giusti (Politecnico di Milano, Italy), Chiara Zocchi, Alessandro Adami, Francesco Scaramellini, 
Alberto Rovetta  
797 Haptic interaction with virtual mechanical systems  
Csaba Antonya (University Transilvania of Brasov, Romania), Tiberiu Butnaru, Doru Talaba 
 
 ROOM 6  RELIABILITY OF MACHINES AND MECHANISMS (RMM-2) 
          
601 The efficiency of dynamic stabilization of frictional disks nonflatness  
Oleg Berestnev (Belarus), Wladimir Antonjuk  
920 Incipient bearing fault diagnosis using DWT for feature extraction 
 Juan Garcia (UC3M, Spain), Cristina Castejon, Omar Lara  
368 The Practice of the Applying Acoustic Emission Phenomena for Nondestructive Control  
and Diagnosing of Technical State of Manufactured Articles 
 Vilen Royzman (Ukraine), Andrew Goroshko, Igor Kovtun  
515 Results and problems of the geometry of hinged devices  
Mikhail Kovalev (BMSTU, Russia)  
851 Systems Engineering Frame Concept  
Konstantin Frolov (The Russian Academy of Sciences, Russia)  
285 Simple examples of dual coupling networks  
Trevor Davies (Loughborough University, U.K.)  
 
 ROOM 7  ROTOR DYNAMICS (RD-2) 
          
21 Gyroscopic stabilization in presence of non-conservative forces  
Oleg Kirillov (Moscow State Lomonosov University, Russia)  
701 Disappearance of Critical Rotor Speed / Sealing Ring as Suppressor of Rotor Oscillations 
Andrey Nikiforov (Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, Russia), Ludmila Banakh, Grigory Panovko,  
Alexsandr Shohin  
327 Study of magnetic actuator parameters influence in the magnetic force  
R.M. Furtado (UNICAMP, Brazil), Z.C. Silveira, K.L. Cavalca, N. Butzek (TU, Darmstadt, Germany), R. 
Nordmann  
773 Stick/Slip Phenomena in Dynamics : Choice of Contact Model. Numerical Predictions & 
Experiments  
Eric Chatelet (INSA de Lyon, France), Guilhem Michon, Lionel Manin, Georges Jacquet 
302 Study on Rotor Critical Speeds Optimal Adjustment to Disks Positions  
Zhansheng Liu (School of Energy Science and Engineering, China), Donghua Wang, Ye Zhang 
160 The procedure for investigation of the influence of sucking the air into the short fluid film  
bearings on the nonlinear and chaotic vibration of flexible rotors  
Jaroslav Zapomel (Technical University of Ostrava, Czech Republic)  
 
June 20, Wednesday – 10:30-12:50 
 
 ROOM 1  LINKAGES AND CAMS (LC-6) 
          
839 Gravity balancers with only spring connections to ground  
Just Herder (Delft University of Technology, The Netherlands) 
311 Kinematic Synthesis of an Eight-Bar Linkage to Visit Eleven Poses Exactly 
 Chao Chen (University of Toronto, Canada), Jorge Angeles (McGill University) 
 
 
 ROOM 4  ROBOTICS (RB-16) 
          
771 Analysis of a High Resolution Planar PKM 
 Olivier Company (LIRMM, France), Sébastien Krut, François Pierrot 
916 Motion kinematics analysis of wheeled-legged rover over 3D surface with posture adaptation 
Christophe Grand (Laboratoire de Robotique de Paris, France), Faiz BenAmar, Frédéric Plumet 
772 Restricted Minimum-Effort Motion Planning for Serial Manipulators  
Andreas Hussong ( Leibniz University of Hannover, Germany), Bodo Heimann  
753 Trajectory planning of a redundant parallel manipulator changing of  
Ofelia Alba-Gomez (Instituto Tecnologico de la Laguna, Mexico), José-Alfonso Pamanes, 
 Philippe Wenger (IRCCyN,  France)  
951 Manipulability Based Path and Trajectory Planning for Hybrid Mobility Climbing 
 Jaime Bestard (Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, U.S.A.), Gloria Wiens (University of Florida) 
938 Towards principles for the design of a form-closure capable underactuated pneumatic hand 
Vincent Begoc (LIRMM/B+DEVELOPMENT, France), Sébastien Krut (LIRMM), Etienner Dombre, François 
Pierrot, Claude Durand (B+ DEVELOPMENT) 
821 Walking Robots for Education and Professional Application  
Teresa Zielinska (Warsaw University of Technology, Poland), Dariusz Metrak, Tomasz Pawlak, 
John Heng (Nanyang Technological University), Chee-Meng Chew (National University of Singapore) 
 
 ROOM 5  HUMAN-MACHINE SYSTEMS (HMS-2) 
          
341 Defining requirements of a risk assessment tool - a case in industrial maintenance 
Salla Lind (Technical Research Centre of Finland), Jouni Kivistc Rahnasto (Tampere University 
 of Technology), Sanna Nenonen, Matti Luoto  
298 MR compatibility of an intraoperative robot  
Jani Virtanen (Finland), Kalervo Nevala  
511 Improvement plan of automatic page turning machine through experiments with a prototype 
Tomoya Masuyama (Tsuruoka National College of Technology, Japan), Eigo Sakagami (Nissan Motor  
Co., Ltd.), Katsumi Inoue (Tohoku University)  
918 Design of an Exoskeleton Mechanism for the Shoulder Joint  
Evangelos Papadopoulos (National Technical University of Athens, Greece), Georgios Patsianis   
891 Studies on Reach Probability of Stochastic Dyads for Digital Human Modeling 
Sarath Reddi (Indian Institute of Science, India), Dibakar Sen  
939 A new approach to solve constraint forces of virtual fixtures in haptic rendering  
Pierre Joli (Evry Val d'Essonne University, France), Shahram Payandeh (Simon Fraser University),  
Mavis Chan, Benjamin Bayart (Evry Val d'Essonne University, France) 
417 Development of a Walking Support System with Motion Assist Functions 
Tadaaki Ikehara (Tokyo Metroporitan College of Industrial Technology, Japan), Eiichiro Tanaka (Hiroshima 
University), Takanobu Tamiya, Naoki Fukaya (Tokyo Metroporitan College of Industrial Technology), 
Kazuteru Nagamura (Hiroshima University) 
 
 ROOM 6  DYNAMICS OF MACHINERY (DY) 
          
855 Vibrational Technologies And Machines For The Processing Of Mineral And  
Technogeneous Raw Materials: Theory, New Ideas, New Constructions 
Iliya Blekhman (Mekhanobr-Tekhnika Corp., Russia), Leonid Vaisberg  
842 Use of Stiffness/Damping/Natural Frequency Criteria in Vibration Control 
Eugene I. Rivin (Wayne State University, U.S.A.)  
809 Modelling of the axial load of the endless band-saw 
Jozef Wojnarowski (Politechnika Slaska, Poland), Wladyslaw Kalinski   
Konstanty Skalski (Warsaw University of Technology, Poland), Krzysztof Kedzior, Jozef Skoworodko, 
Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (Military Institute of the Health Service, Poland), Wojciech Cejmer   
133 Studies by Finite Element Method of some Devices for Treatment 
 Arjana Davidescu (ARoTMM, Romania), Carmen Sticlaru 
134 Comparative Study of Fixation Devices for Intertrochanteric Fractures 
Carmen Sticlaru (ARoTMM, Romania), Arjana Davidescu  
 
COMPUTATIONAL KINEMATICS (CK-P1) 
          
300 CAD Solving Kinematics of a Spatial 4SPS & UPU Parallel Manipulator  
Lu Yi (Finland), Tatu Leinonen  
945 On the study of Ellipsograph Mechanisms  
Meng-Hui Hsu (Kun Shan University, Taiwan), Yu-Gang Chen (Far East University), Jen-Yu Liu (National 
Formosa University), Long-Chang Hsieh, Fu-Chen Chen (Kun Shan University)  
625 The Application of an ANFIS and BP Neural Network Method in Vehicle Shift Decision  
Xue-Xiu Li (Shanghai Jiaotong University, China), Hu Huang (Shanghai University of Engineering Science), 
Chong-Hong Liu 
724 Performance Improvement of a Punching Mechanism for Flexible Printed Circuit Boards  
Der-Min Tsay (National Sun Yat-Sen University, Taiwan), Hsin-Pao Chen, Wei-Chih Shih, Chun-Yu Hsueh, 
Tzuen-Lih Chern   
630 Prototype of a rotary hoe for intra-row weeding  
Zoltan Gobor (Institute for Agricultural Engineering, University of Bonn, Germany), Peter Schulze 
 Lammers  
762 The moving equation for the physical pendulum with clearance in the joint  
Jan Cristian Grigore (University of Pitesti, Romania), Constantin Onescu, Nicolae Pandrea  
597 The matrical iterative method and the calculation algorithms for the cinematic analyze of spatial 
mechanisms  
Marina Pandrea (University of Pitesti, Romania), Nicolae Pandrea, Dinel Popa  
 
799 Biomechanical analysis of shoulder joint movement by means of optimization methods 
Marek Surowiec (Warsaw University of Technology, Poland), Janusz Fraczek Poland) 
656 Representations of constraints imposed by kinematic chains of parallel mechanisms 
Victor Glazunov (Mechanical Enginneering Research Institute, Russia), Roman Gruntovich, Alexey 
Lastochkin, Nguen Nguen Mingh Than (HoChiMinh City, University of Technology) 
 
DESIGN METHODOLOGY (DM-P1) 
         
715 Applications of the Discrete Element Simulation Method within the Development of  
Machines and Mechanisms  
Ulrich Hoppe (IGM, RWTH Aachen, Germany), Burkhard Corves 
  
GEARING AND TRANSMISSIONS (GT-P1) 
          
332 Study on New Device for Friction Disc Dynamic Strength Test  
Keyan Ning (China North Vehicle Research Institute, P.R. China), Guangming Zhou, Mingcheng Wang  
679 The kinematics analyses of the planetary cylindrical gears  
Victor Moise (University Politechnica of Bucharest, Romania), Iulian Alexandru Tabara   
790 On the bending and surface fatigues of an engaging spur gear pair  
Ah-Der Lin (Cheng Shiu University, Taiwan), Jao-Hwa Kuang (National Sun Yat-Sen University, Taiwan) 
353 The Rack-Pinion Gears For Steering Gear Box With Variable Transmition Ratio  
Petre Alexandru (Transilvania University of Brasov, Romania)  
550 Reliability-based Sensitivity Design of Gear Pairs  
Y.M. Zhang (Northeastern University, China), Q.L. Liu (Jilin University), B.C. Wen (Northeastern 
 University)  
 
MULTIBODY DYNAMICS (MD-P1) 
          
352 Effect of Crack on Dynamic Characteristics in a Drilling Process  
Bo-Wun Huang (Cheng Shiu University, Taiwan), Jao-Hwa Kuang (National Sun Yat-Sen University), Pu-Ping 
Yu (Cheng Shiu University)  
490 Influences of inertia parameters of rigid moving platform on flexible parallel robots dynamic 
property and optimum design  
Zhao-Cai Du (Beijing University of Technology, China), Yue-Qing Yu, Li-Ying Su  
954 Theoretical and experimental modeling of the dynamic response of the mechanisms with deformable 
kinematic elements  
Nicolae Dumitru (University of Craiova, Romania), Mirela Cherciu, Zuhair Althahbi 
330 Dynamic model of a flexible 5R parallel robot  
Zhao-cai Du (Beijing University of Technology, China), Yue-Qing Yu, Jian-Xin Yang 
306 Estimation of the Dynamic Parameters of Dynamic Model of lever mechanisms on the Stage  
of the Initial Design.  
Valentina V. Kuzlyakina (Vladivostok, Russia), Ludmila A. Brazhnik 
371 Sur la dynamique des structures mécaniques mobiles  
Amedeu Oranescu (Universite "Dunarea de Jos" Galati, Romania), Elena Mereuta, Silvia Bejenaru, 
Madalina Rus 
431 Stabilization of load position for offshore cranes  
Andrzej Maczynski (University of Bielsko-Biala, Poland), Stanislaw Wojciech  
843 Cluster Computing of Mechanisms Dynamics using Recursive Formulation 
Pawea Malczyk (Warsaw University of Technology, Poland), Janusz Fraczek  
 
June 21, Thursday 
 
08:30 – 10:10 
 ROOM 1  LINKAGES AND CAMS (LC-7) 
          
482 Bricard Mechanism Used as Translator  
Laurentiu Racila (FEMTO-ST, France), Marc Dahan (Institut de Productique, France)  
863 New approach for optimum synthesis of six-bar dwell mechanisms by adaptive curve  
fitting 
 Huimin Dong (Dalian University of Technology, China), Delun Wang  
384 Design of statically balanced planar four-bar linkages with base-attached springs  
Win-Bin Shieh (Mingchi University of Technology, Taiwan), Dar-Zen Chen (National Taiwan  
University), Po-Young Lin  
811 Analytical Synthesis of Centric Drag-Link Mechanisms for Delay Generation 
 Abdullah Dwairi (Jordania)  
645 Study on the Mechanism Design of a Multi-Function Sickbed with the Capability of 
Making Patient Lie on Side  
Ching-Kong Chen (National Taipei University of Technology, Taiwan), Sheng-Wen Hu   
 
08:30 – 10:10 
 ROOM 2  MECHATRONICS (ME-6)  
          
313 Single Vane Pumping Mechanism  
Ricardo Chicurel-Uziel (National University of Mexico) 
 
12 Active Control of Structural Vibrations by Imposed Eigenstrains  
Franz Ziegler (TU  Vienna) 
 
309 Water Machines In Central European Ore-Mines Within !6th and !(th Centuries 
 Stefan Havlik (Slovak Academy of Sciences, Slovakia) 
580 Historic Mechanism Teaching Models in Taiwan 
Hong-Sen Yan (National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan), Hsing-Hui Huang (Kun Shan University),  
Chin-Hsing Kuo (National Cheng Kung University)  
36 Development of Drilling Technics from Ancient Ages to Modern Times 
 Bohdan Kopey (Ukraine)  
 
08:10 – 10:10 
 ROOM 6  NONLINEAR OSCILLATIONS (NO-2) 
           
470 Nonlinear Whirling Motion of Tower-Like Structures Carrying a Liquid Tank 
 Takashi Ikeda (Japan)  
556 Modelling and Stability Analysis of Strings in Axial Motion  
Ulrike Zwiers (Universiut Duisburg-Essen, Germany), Manfred Braun  
561 Numerical simulation of flow-induced nonlinear vibrations of an airfoil in a channel  
considering large amplitudes  
Petr Svacek (Czech Technical University, Czech Republic), Miloslav Feistauer (Charles  
University, Czech Republic), Jaromir Horacek (Institute of Thermomechanics, Czech Republic)  
889 A modified Taguchi's method applied to parametric and nonlinear primary resonances of  
gears under parameter uncertainties  
Joël Perret-Liaudet (LTDS, ECL, France), Nicolas Driot (LDMS, INSA, Lyon)  
776 Case study on the act-and-wait concept for the control of periodic robot motions with  
feedback delay 
Tamas Insperger (Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Hungary), Gabor Stepan  
808 Stability and Optimization Aspects of Slightly Damped Oscillatory Systems with Digital  
Force Control  
Laszlo Kovacs (Budapest University of Technology and Economics, Hungary), Gabor Stepan,  
Jozsef Kovecses (McGill University)  
 
08:30 – 10:10 
 ROOM 7  ROTOR DYNAMICS (RD-3) 
          
913 Exact Balancing of Long Elastic Rotors by Mass Dispensing Robot  
Erno Keskinen (Tampere University of Technology, Finland), Michel Cotsaftis (Ecole Centrale  
d'Electronique) 
102 Stochastic Rotor Dynamics  
Mikhail Dimentberg (Worcester Polytechnic Institute, U.S.A.) 
695 Stability of periodic motion on two-span rotor-bearing system with coupling faults of pedestal 
looseness and crack  
Yuegang Luo (Research Institute of Mechanism Electron and Control Engineering, China), 
 Zhaohui Ren (School of Mechanical Engineering and Automation, China), Naihui Song, Bangchun Wen  
 
167 Feedback Linearization Rub Control using an Active Auxiliary Bearing  
Lucas Ginzinger (Technical University, Germany), Heinz Ulbrich  
180 Test Rig for a Supercritical Rotor of an Aero Engine  
Daniel Peters (Darmstadt University of Technology, Germany), Christian Kaletsch, Rainer Nordmann, 
Bernd Domes (Rolls-Royce Deutschland) 
 
 
 
 
 
 ROOM 4  EDUCATION (ED-3) 
          
716 Computer aided mechanics homework system in the Hungarian higher education 
Istvan Biro (Hungary), Bela M. Csizmadia, Zoltan Méller  
958 Interdisciplinary Integration Of Educational Disciplines Of Theoretical And Applied  
Mechanics In Technical University 
Ivan Abramov (Izhevsk State Technical University, Russia), Yuriy Semin, Alexander Elenskiy  
677 Concept, structure and program realization of the Internet textbook on classical mechanics 
Elena Ponomaryova (Astrakhan State Technical University, Russia), Tatiana Nevenchannaya (Moscow State 
Publishing House), Vladimir Pavlovsky (Russia Acad. of Sci.)  
895 Adaptation of the subject, Machine Vibration and Noise 
Juan Manuel Munoz Guijosa (Universidad Politecnica de Madrid), Laura Reques, Andres Diaz, Pilar  
Lafont José Luis Munoz, Julio Munoz   
 
 ROOM 5  BIOMECHANICS (BIO) 
          
237 Modern noninvasive automatically way for definition of mechanical properties  
of the human skin 
Andrey Yatsun (Russia), Boris Lushnikov, Svetlana Yatsun  
 
765 A multi-body head and neck model for low speed rear impact analysis 
Selcuk Himmetoglu (Loughborough University, U.K.), Memis Acar, Andy Taylor, Kaddour Bouazza-Marouf 
 
 ROOM 5  DESIGN METHODOLOY (DM) 
          
174 A genetic-based optimization of a bus structure as a design methodology  
Beatriz L. Boada (Carlos III University, Spain), Antonio Gauchia, Maria Jesus L. Boada, Vicente Diaz 
324 Proposal of a New Design Methodology including PD and SBD in Minimally Invasive 
 Surgery 
Guillaume Thomann (Institue of Technology, France), Jean Caelen   
838 Parameter Prediction in Dynamic Analysis using Response Surface Method and  
Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithms 
Roberto Escobar (Vulkan do Brasil Ltda, Brazil), Katia Cavalca (UNICAMP)  
 
 ROOM 6  NONLINEAR OSCILLATIONS (NO-3) 
          
504 Weak excitation of non-linear rotor system with closely spaced resonances 
 Ladislav Pust (Institute of Thermomechanics, Czech Republic) 
137 Non-smooth Periodic Dynamics of a Bush in Tribological Conditions 
Jan Awrejcewicz (Technical University, Poland), Yuriy Pyryev   
949 A direct formulation of near-identity transformations and normal forms for Nonlinear  
Systems with External Periodic Excitations  
Amit Gabale (Auburn University, U.S.A.), S. C. Sinha  
633 Bifurcation in the dynamical system with clearances  
Nenad Kranjcevic (University of Zagreb, Croatia), Milenko Stegic, Nikola Vrankovic  
 
 ROOM 7  ROTOR DYNAMICS (RD-4) 
          
907 Internal Friction in Rotor-Shaft Connections of Lab-Centrifuges  
Jonas Fischer (University Magdeburg, Germany), Jens Strackeljan  
685 Dynamic behaviour of a four-poles turbo generator with rotor eccentricity 
Paolo Pennacchi (Politecnico di Milano, Italy), Lucia Frosini (Universite di Pavia, Italy)  
818 Some results in steam whirl analysis  
Nicolo' Bachschmid (Politecnico di Milano, Italy), Paolo Pennacchi, Andrea Vania 
MICROMECHANISMS (MM-P2) 
734 Tolerance Design and Analysis of A Micro Stage  
Jhy-Cherng Tsai (National Chung Hsing University, Taiwan), Mandy Hsiao, Jau-Liang Chen 
 
NONLINEAR OSCILLATIONS (NO-P2) 
539 Nonlinear Dynamics and Analysis of a Four-Bar Linkage with Clearance 
 Zongyu Chang (Engineering College, Ocean University, China) 
766 Characterization of the friction of a damper in open loop control  
Mikel Zubieta (Mondragon Unibertsitatea, Spain), Harkaitz Urreta (IDEKO Technologie Centre), Maria Jesus 
Elejabarrieta (Mondragon Unibertsitatea), Mohammed Mounir Bou-Ali  
900 An application of elastic wheel/rail bi-contact theory to the hunting of bogie 
 Traian Mazilu (University Politehnica of Bucharest, Romania) 
930 Dynamics of disc sliding without gap along rigid vibrating rod   
Alexandre Gouskov (Bauman MSTU, Russia), Evgenia Mialo (Blagonravov‚ Institute of Engineering 
 Science RAS), Grigory Panovko   
705      On the dynamics in the case of neo-Hookean automobiles suspensions  
Nicolae-Doru Stanescu (University of Pitesti, Romania), Nicolae Pandrea, Ionel Vieru  
 
RELIABILITY OF MACHINES AND MECHANISMS (RMM-P2) 
626 Kinematical synthesis and analysis of IV class linkage with dwell of output link 
Vasily Khomchenko (Omsk State Technical University, Russia), Elena Gebel, Evgeny Solonin, Viatcheslav 
Solomin  
700 Computer kinematical synthesis of plain linkages of II and III class with dwell of output link  
by the given cyclegramm  
Vasily Khomchenko (OmGTU Omsk, Russia), Vladimir Khorunzhin (Kemerovo, Russia, KemTIPP), Vladimir 
Baksheev, Nikolay Skabkin (Omsk, Russia, OmGTU) 
404 Hybrid Reliability Models of Mechanical Structure  
Yonghua Li (Dalian University of Technology, China), Weidong He (Dalian Jiaotong University, China) 
548 Stable Reliability-Based Robust Design of Compressive Bar Under Incomplete Probability 
Information  
X.D. He (Northeastern University, China), Y.M. Zhang, B.C. Wen  
693 Reliability Analysis of 100MN Multi Way Die Forging Hydraulic Press's Computer  
Control System 
Zhongwei Liu (Central South University, China), Shaojun Liu, Yucai Zhou, Yi Deng, Yinjian  
359 Synthesis of Spherical Four-bar Function Generator by Means of Fourier Method 
 Jianwei Sun (P.R. China), Jinkui Chu  
506 Synthesis of Coupler Curves of Spherical Four-bar Mechanism Through Fast Fourier  
Transform 
Jinkui Chu (P.R. China), Jianwei Sun  
 
ROBOTICS (RB-P2) 
530 Trends of space robotics.Design methodologies for a colony of autonomous space  
robot explorers 
 Alberto Rovetta (Politecnico di Milano, Italy), Elena C. Paul  
558 Underactuated Robot Dyanmic Modelling and Control Based on Embedding Model 
XiuJuan Deng (University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China), Zhen Lu   
577 Robot Fuzzy Force Control Based on Genetic Algorithms  
Jun Zhou (China), Zhen Lu  
507 Stiffness Analysis of 3-RRR Planar Parallel Mechanisms Based on CCT  
Shujun Li (Northeastern University, P.R. China), Clément Gosselin (Laval University) 
 870 Enumeration and Type Synthesis of One-DOF Remote-Center-of-Motion Mechanisms 
