 附件一 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 V 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
加速旋轉與震動控制的垂直布氏法單晶生長之研究與應用(3/3) 
計畫類別：v 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-002-306 
執行期間：2007/08/01 ~ 2008/07/31 
 
計畫主持人： 藍崇文 
共同主持人： 無 
計畫參與人員：劉有晟、王亮程、陳志彬 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  V 完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立臺灣大學化學工程學系曁研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  97 年 10 月   10  日 
segregation of dopants. For the heavy-doping situation, the local accumulation of dopants could 
also accelerate constitutional supercooling, which leads to the morphological breakdown of the 
planar interface [3-6]. Therefore, an active control over the melt convection is extremely 
important for this growth process. Several control means have been proposed for vertical 
Bridgman crystal growth, including using magnetic fields [e.g., 7-8], centrifugal forces [9-11], 
and the accelerated crucible rotation technique (ACRT) [12].  
Recently, a technique using angular vibration has been proposed, and found effective in 
reversing the flow and segregation near the growth interface [13-14]. However, the detailed 
numerical analysis and parameter studies have not yet been carried out. In principle, the angular 
vibration technique (AVT) is very similar to ACRT, but ACRT uses a much lower frequency. In 
ACRT, in order to develop the Eckman boundary layer, the time for a spin-up or spin-down cycle 
is usually in the order of mRCR νΩ/2 , where RBCB is the crystal radius, ΩBRB the rotation speed, 
and ν the kinematic viscosity of the melt. This time constant is usually several tens of seconds for 
most of the materials having the diameter of several centimeters. On the other hand, based on the 
same operation, AVT uses a much higher frequency. Such a vibration causes a streaming flow at 
the growth interface, and thus effective in the local flow and segregation control. Because the 
bulk flow is not much affected, the global segregation is not enhanced.  
In this paper, we take a transparent growth system using succinonitrile containing acetone as 
examples to investigate the effects of vibration frequencies on the flow and segregation control. 
In addition to experimental observations, some numerical simulations are reported. Both direct 
numerical simulation (DNS) and the Schlichting boundary layer approximation (SBLA) were 
carried out and compared. The calculated amplitudes of the oscillatory flow intensity and the 
interface, as well as the solute segregations, should be informative to crystal growers who are 
interested in using this technique. In the next section, the governing equations and boundary 
conditions for the vertical Bridgman growth are introduced. The equivalent boundary condition 
for SBLA is derived and the numerical method is described briefly. Section 3 gives a brief 
description of the experimental setup and solidification experiments. The results and discussion 
are arranged in Section 4 before a short conclusion. 
 
2. Governing equations and boundary layer approximation 
The schematic of the vertical Bridgman crystal growth used in this study is depicted in Fig. 
1. The furnace environment used for simulation is described by an effective heating profile 
TBeffB(z,t), which is specified in modeling. To start crystal growth from a stationary state (without 
ampoule movement), this profile is moved upward at speed UBhB. In the experiments, the furnace is 
kept stationary, while the ampoule is moving downward at a given speed after the growth starts. 
The angular vibration is applied in the azimuthal angle direction with an amplitude bBvB (a fraction 
of 2π) and angular frequency Ω (or frequency f in Hertz); Ω=2π f. The system is assumed 
axisymmetric, so that the flow and temperature fields, as well as the growth front (the 
melt/crystal interface, hBcB(r, t)). The melt is further assumed incompressible and Newtonian, while 
the flow is laminar. The Boussinesq approximation is also adopted. Dimensionless variables are 
defined by scaling length with the crystal radius RBcB, time t with RBcPB2P/αBmB, velocity with αBmB/RBcB, 
temperature with the melting point TBmB, and dopant or solute concentration by the initial 
mm
3
CmT0
TRa να
β RTg≡ ; 
mm
3
C0S0
SRa να
β RCg≡ , 
where gB0B is the gravitational acceleration and βBTB and βBSB are the thermal and solutal expansion 
coefficients, respectively. The stream function ψP∗P and vorticity ωP∗P in the above equations are 
defined in terms of the radial (uP∗P) and axial (vP∗P) velocities as: 
                       ,
1,1 **
*
**
*
rr
v
zr
u ∂
∂=∂
∂−=
∗∗ ψψ
                (6) 
                     *
*
*
*
r
v
z
u
∂
∂−∂
∂=∗ω .                        (7) 
To solve the above governing equations, boundary conditions are also required. Most of the 
boundary conditions for melt flow and heat and mass transfer can be found elsewhere [15]. In 
short, the energy and solute conservation are applied to the growth interface. For example, at the 
melt/crystal interface, the interface energy and solute balances can be written as the following, 
respectively, 
0|)(St|| *
*
** =⋅∂
∂+∇⋅−∇⋅ czcccm t
hTT ennn γκ ,              (8) 
0|)(
Pr
Sc)1(| *
*
** =⋅∂
∂−−∇⋅− czcc t
hCKC enn ,              (9) 
where n is the surface normal at the growth front pointing to the melt, mcc kk /≡κ  the 
normalized crystal thermal conductivity, mc ρργ /≡  the density ratio, and  the 
dimensionless interface height. The Stefan number
*
ch
)/(St mmTCpHΔ≡ scales the heat of fusion 
(ΔH) released during solidification to the sensible heat in the melt. The equilibrium segregation 
coefficient  is obtained according to the phase diagram; K=0.1 for acetone in SCN. 
At the ampoule/material interfaces, heat flux continuity is forced, while the solute flux is set to 
zero. The melt surface is set to stress free. The no-slip boundary condition is used for the solid 
boundaries of the interface. Therefore, the angular vibration of the crucible can be described by 
the sinusoidal azimuthal velocity as the following: 
CCK c /≡
                  (10) ),2sin2 ***** tπf(rfbv vπθ =
where 2πbBvB is the angular vibration amplitude and fP*P the dimensionless vibration frequency 
scaled by αBmB/RBcPB2P. In fact, in term of the accelerated ampoule rotation, 2πbBvBfP*P corresponds to the 
maximum rotation speed (dimensionless). In other words, beside the much smaller period for 
reversing rotation, AVT and ACRT are quite similar. The detailed comparisons of the calculated 
flow and solute fields in the growth of ZnCdTe using both techniques have been discussed in our 
previous report [14]. Because the solidification time in experiments last for hours, it is too time 
consuming to perform direct numerical simulation (DNS) using Eq. (10) as the boundary 
condition because the timestep used for time integration needs to be much smaller than the 
vibration period. Instead, if the frequency is high such that the thickness of viscous boundary 
).sin(
2
)( **2* ϕπ rfbu vt =                       (16) 
With this boundary condition, the simulation cost of the angular vibration is greatly reduced 
because the timestep is no longer restricted by the vibration period; the simulation time can be 
reduced from about a week to several hours. We refer this approach the Schlichting boundary 
layer approximation (SBLA). However, there are some limitations of using this approximation. 
When the frequency is not very high, the boundary layer thickness is not small enough, so that 
the use of this boundary condition could be erroneous. We will examine this approximation later 
by comparing the result using this boundary condition with the one from the direct numerical 
simulation using Eq. (10) as the boundary condition. Furthermore, since the linearized 
Navier-Stoke equation is used, the vibration amplitude needs to be small as well. 
The above governing equations and boundary conditions are discretized by a finite volume 
method, and the resultant differential/algebraic equations are solved by DASPK solver with 
adaptive stepsize control [15]. The total number of unknowns after the finite volume 
approximation is 34052, and all the calculations are performed using a personal computer 
(P4-3GHz CPU). 
 
3. Experimental 
 
Succinonitrile (SCN) containing about 0.02 wt% acetone was directionally solidified in a 
transparent vertical Bridgman system, as sketched in Fig. 1. Before experiments, SCN (Furuka 
Inc., about 99% purity) was purified first by vacuum distillation at 50 m-torr for ten times. The 
sample purity was checked by the melting point using a thermistor showing the sample purity 
may be higher than 99.99% [17]. The distilled sample was collected in a 17-mm diameter Pyrex 
ampoule (2.5mm in thickness) and further purified by four-zone refining for more than sixty 
passes. The sample was then examined by directional solidification. No morphological 
breakdown was observed up to 7 μm/s of the solidification speed for a thermal gradient of 8 to 
10K/cm. To perform the solidification experiments, about 0.02 wt% of acetone was injected into 
the sample through a 5μl micro-syringe inserted into the bottom of the sample. To insure the 
acetone uniformity in the melt, at least one day was waited before the growth experiment. The 
total sample length was about 20 cm.  
The furnace for directional solidification consisted of two heating zones made of cupper blocks 
each with a Nichrome wire inside as a heating element. In between, a transparent insulation zone 
made of Plexiglas was used. The hot- and cold-zone temperatures were controlled independently 
by two PID controllers and the temperatures were set to 80PoPC (top) and 40PoPC (bottom), 
respectively. The thermal gradient at the interface was measured by an immersed thermocouple 
traveling with the sample. By taking an average of the gradients at the interface from 
solidification and melting curves, we got the thermal gradient being about 8 to 10 K/cm. To 
translate the ampoule accurately, a microstepping motor was used to drive a screw slide; the 
translation rate was controlled at 2 μm/s in this study. During solidification, a video camera was 
used to record the evolution of the interface morphology with a back lighting to enhance the 
contrast of the image. Also, to allow smooth rotation, the ampoule was tightly fitted into a pair of 
bearings (top and bottom) that were both mounted on the translating system. Furthermore, to 
stationary. One hour after solidification commenced, the interface became significantly concave, 
with a pit formed at the center. The lower flow cell induced by the interface concavity caused 
acetone accumulation at the pit and accelerated supercooling and the morphological breakdown. 
This was consistent with the experimental observation.  
For 5 Hz vibration, direct numerical simulation (DNS) was also carried out. Although the 
frequency was not high, the simulation time was extremely long because the solidification time 
last several hours, while the timestep for integration needs to be much smaller than the vibration 
period (0.2 s). More than 10P5P time steps were needed for one simulation. The time averaged flow 
and solute profiles are shown in Fig. 3b at different times. It was observed that the supercooling 
started at around 2400s as shown in Fig. 3b. A small secondary flow cell was observed near the 
center of the interface, while other flow structures remained almost unchanged. Numerical 
breakdown also appeared at latter time (e.g., at 4800 s). The pit formation was not obvious, which 
agreed reasonably well with the experimental observation. The time for the onset of supercooling 
was also consistent with the observation.  
On the other hand, the simulation using the Schlichting boundary layer approximation 
(SBLA) was further carried out and shown in Fig. 4a. As shown, the results are quite different 
from that in Fig. 3b. In SBLA, the frequency was assumed high enough, so that the tangential 
velocity was imposed at the growth interface. This resulted in a secondary flow cell sitting upon 
the interface. No pit formation and supercooling were found in Fig. 4a. In other words, the 
simulated results using SBLA were not consistent with the experiments. The simulation seemed 
to over predict the effect of the angular vibration. 
For the angular vibration of 20 Hz, as shown in Fig. 4b, the results were similar to that of 
5Hz in Fig. 4a, but the flow intensity for the Schlichting cell was significantly larger. Again, no 
pit formation and supercooling were observed, which was consistent with the experiment. The 
interface shape was also in reasonable agreement with the observed one. Direct numerical 
simulation of the growth at 20Hz was not realistic because of the long computation time. 
Nevertheless, we still examined the validity of SBLA for 20 Hz for a similar case. To save 
computation time, we picked a stationary system similar to the case at t= 0 s in Fig. 4b for 
comparison, but the solutal effect was ignored (let C=0). Figure 5 shows the comparison of the 
calculated isotherms (left) and the streamlines (right) using SBLA and DNS with 5 and 20 Hz for 
the same vibration intensity (2πbBvPB2Pf); the SBLA is independent of frequency as long as the 
Schlichting velocity remains the same (also see Eq. (16)). As shown in Fig. 5, the calculated 
isotherms and flow patterns are all very similar. However, if we compare the flow intensity of the 
Schlichting cell near the interface, the vortex center moves downward as the frequency increases 
from 5 to 20 Hz, which is consistent with the boundary layer thickness predicted in Eq. (15). The 
flow intensity increases with the frequency as well. However, even at 20Hz, the maximum flow 
intensity (|ΨBminB|) is only about 72.5% of that calculated from SBLA. Further increasing the 
frequency slightly improves the results. The oscillation amplitudes of the stream function for the 
Schlichting cells are 1.75x10P-4P (~0.74|ΨBminB|) and 6.03x10P-5Pg/s (~0.315|ΨBminB|), respectively. 
Interestingly, the oscillation amplitude of the interface speed is less than 10P-4Pμm/s, which is much 
smaller than the pulling speed (2 μm/s), for both cases. This indicates that the angular vibration 
should not cause significant growth striations even at low frequency (say 5 Hz). 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
 The effect of angular vibration on the flow, morphology, and solute segregation during 
vertical Bridgman crystal growth of SCN containing 0.02 wt% acetone was investigated. Both 
direct numerical simulation (DNS) and Schlichting boundary layer approximation (SBLA) were 
considered in the numerical modeling and compared with the experimental observations. The 
simulated results were consistent reasonably well with the experimental results. However, as 
anticipated, SBLA was only suitable for high frequencies with low amplitudes. At a low 
frequency, say 5Hz, SBLA was found erroneous. Nevertheless, based on the simulated results and 
the transparent experiments, the angular vibration technique was proven to be effective in the 
flow and segregation control for the vertical Bridgman crystal growth.  
 
Acknowledgment  
This work was supported by the National Science Council of the Republic of China and the 
Russian Foundation for Basic Research.  
 
References 
[1]  J.C. Brice, Crystal Growth Processes, Jone Wiley & Sons, New York, 1986. 
[2]  E. Monberg, Bridgman and related growth techniques, In Handbook of Crystal Growth 2a: 
Basic Techniques; Hurle, D.T.J. Eds.; North-Holland: Amsterdam, 1994; 51-97.  
[3] W.A. Tiller, K.A. Jackson, J.W. Rutter, and B. Chalmers, The redistribution of solute atoms 
during the solidification of metals, Acta Metall. 1 (1953) 428-437.  
[4]  W. W. Mullins and R.F. Sekerka, Stability of a planar interface during solidification of a 
dilute binary alloy, J. Appl. Phys. 35 (1964) 444-451. 
[5] N.B. Singh, S.S. Mani, J.D. Adam, S.R. Coriell, M.E. Glicksman, W.M.B. Duval, G.J. 
Santaro, R. DeWitt, Direct observations of interface instability, J. Crystal Growth 166 (1996) 
364-369.  
[6] C.W. Lan and C.Y. Tu, Morphological instability due to double diffusive convection in 
directional solidification: the pit formation. J. Crystal Growth, 220 (2001) 619-630. 
[7] Dold, P and K.W. Benz, Rotating magnetic fields: fluid flow and crystal growth 
applications, Prog. Crystal Growth & Charact. of Materials, (1999) 7-38. 
[8] D.T. J. Hurle and R.W. Series, Use of a magnetic field in melt growth, Hurle, D.T.J. (eds.). 
Handbook of Crystal Growth 2a. North-Holland, Amsterdam. 1994, 259-286. 
[9]  H. Rodot, L.L. Regel, G.V. Sarafanov, H. Hamidi, I.V. Videskii, and A.M. Turtchaninov, 
Cristaux de plomb élaborés en centrifugeuse. J. Crystal Growth 79 (1986) 77-83.  
[10] J. Friedrich, J. Baumgartl, H-J Leister, and G. Mueller, Experimental and theoretical analysis 
of convection and segregation in vertical Bridgman growth under high gravity on a 
centrifuge, J. Crystal Growth 167, 45 (1996) 45-63.. 
  
Fig. 1 Sketch of the experimental setup for vertical Bridgman crystal growth with angular 
vibration; the furnace profile TBfB(z) used for simulation was also shown. 
  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Calculated flow and acetone fields, as well as the interface shape using direct numerical 
simulation (DNS) for (a) without angular vibration; (b) 5Hz vibration; the ampoule 
pulling speed of 2.0μm/s and vibration amplitude was about 0.035. In (a) at t=0, ΨBminB= 
-1.8x10P-4 Pg/s, ΨBmaxB= 3.037x10P-5 Pg/s, and C/CB0B= 0 and at t= 1h, ΨBminB= -1.8x10P-4 Pg/s, ΨBmaxB= 
3.037x10P-5 Pg/s, maximum C/CB0B= 16.2693, and minimum C/CB0B= 1. In (b) t=0, ΨBminB= 
-1.8x10P-4 Pg/s, ΨBmaxB= 3.037x10P-5 Pg/s, and C/CB0B= 0; at t= 2400s, ΨBminB= -1.41610P-4 Pg/s, 
ΨBmaxB= 3.309x10P-4 Pg/s, maximum C/CB0B= 8.1844, and minimum C/CB0B= 1; at t= 4800s, 
ΨBminB= -1.411 x10P-4 Pg/s, ΨBmaxB= 3.291x10P-4 Pg/s, maximum C/CB0B= 18.2487, and minimum 
C/CB0B= 1. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Fig. 5  Comparison of the calculated flow streamlines (right) and isotherms (left) by DNS and 
SBLA for a stationary condition with the same vibration intensity (2πbBvPB2Pf); bBvB=0.035 and 
f= 20Hz were used for SBLA.   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Calculated radial segregations (ΔCBcB/CB0B) at various conditions; numerical breakdown was 
clear for 0 and 5 Hz DNS after t= 4000 s;  )||(/ 0
*
1
*
0 ** == −=Δ rrc CCKCC
 
 
 
 
