行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※   
※              新高性能電子元件           ※ 
※      與多重源汲極鰭式電晶體開發(I)    ※ 
※ Novel High performance Microelectronics ※ 
※ Devices and Design of Multi-Source/Drain ※ 
※                    FinFET(I)              ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC98-2221-E-110-075 
執行期間： 98 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 1 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：林吉聰 
共同主持人： 
 
計畫參與人員：黃奕泉、陳炫旭、林勃劦、陳俊佑，孫智鴻、張子豐、邱
憲楠、郭志豪、范翌軒、戴志軒、盧冠佑、陳鉦欣、張又哲 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
執行單位：國立中山大學電機系 
 
 
 
 
中 華 民 國 一百 年 一 月 三十一  日 
can also realized a self-align process to quantity 
produce. The internal block oxide is used to 
suppress the short channel effects (SCEs), 
reduced the leakage current from PN junction, 
and lowers the self heating effect (SHE). Besides, 
the balance point for realizing the bMOS on bulk 
wafer or SOI wafer has been reached, such as the 
improvement of DIBL, SS, Vth, and the on-off 
current ratio. 
(4)  New Vertical MOSFETs with 
Recessed Gate: A new vertical MOSFET with 
recessed gate (RG) was proposed to gain 
reduced parasitic capacitance (compared to the 
conventional VMOS, both Cgd and Cgs can be 
reduced about 12% and 38.78%, respectively at 
VDS = 1.0 V), improved drain saturation current, 
and free kink characteristics, and the 
short-channel characteristics are still acceptable.  
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
    As the size of MOSFETs has been 
miniaturized, the conventional 
one-transistor/one-capacitor (1T/1C) structure 
faces some critical issues, such as becoming 
harder to obtain a sufficient capacitance of the 
storage capacitor and difficult to determine the 
data state. In order to solve these problems, some 
kinds of capacitor architectures have been 
proposed [1]. However, those methods include 
complexity process and increase manufacturing 
cost. In 2001, using one-transistor DRAM has 
been proposed by S. Okhonin, et al. [2]. By 
storing holes in the floating-body region, the 
threshold voltage is lowered and results in 
current difference of state “1” and state “0”. So 
we can recognize the data state by sensing the 
difference of the drain current. That 1T-DRAM 
needs not complexity capacitance process helps 
to miniaturize the cell area (only 4F2). 
Additionally, 1T-DRAM is non-destructive read 
and its process is fully compatible with CMOS 
circuits. Therefore, it is also suitable for 
embedded dynamic random access memory 
(eDRAM) cells [3-5].  
Moreover, the designs of DRAM and 
SONOS memory devices are that a self-aligned 
technique must be implemented to the process 
fabrication. Otherwise, the device performance 
and lost-cost mass production will be destroyed. 
On the one hand, for the point of view about a 
misaligned device, the gate shift will totally 
affect the device performance, such as DIBL, 
threshold voltage, subthreshold swing, 
transconductance, thermal stability, and etc. 
Hence, the self-alignment is so important for 
CMOS scaling. On the other hand, it goes 
without saying that it is a big task to achieve 
low-cost mass produce due to the misalignment. 
That is why we will propose lots types of novel 
DRAM, SONOS memory devices based on the 
self-alignment technique in this project. 
In the last part of this project, we notice that 
vertical MOS (VMOS) with DG structure is 
considered to be one of the novel device 
architectures for solving the problem mentioned 
above. However, the large miller capacitance 
presented in a conventional VMOS structure 
seriously causes a decrease in the high 3-dB 
frequency and the bandwidth properties. In other 
words, the major disadvantages of a 
conventional VMOS are a large gate-to-source 
capacitance (Cgs) and a large gate-to-drain 
capacitance (Cgd) compared with a planar bulkSi 
MOSFET, resulting in a decrease in the 
small-signal performance [6-7]. Recently, a 
novel device structure called the VMOS with 
embedded gate (EGVMOS) [8] has been 
proposed and presented to reduce the parasitic 
overlap capacitance without drastically losing 
desired short-channel characteristics. However, 
in the view point of device fabrication, the 
EGVMOS has met a problem. This is because 
the semicircle gate structure is difficult to be 
formed after the isotropic etching of Si. 
 
三、 研究方法及成果 
1. Novel Polysilicon Thin-Film 
Transistors 1T-DRAM with Trench-Oxide 
Body and Air-Gap Insulator for 1T DRAM: 
Fig. 1.1 shows the proposed Trench-Oxide 
Thin-Film Transistor (TO TFT) [9]. According 
to the TCAD simulations, TO TFT show desired 
electrical characteristics compared with the 
conventional 1T-DRAM device. Fig. 1.2 shows 
the IDS-VDS characteristics of the TO TFT and 
conv. TFT. A larger kink is observed for our 
proposed TO TFT compared with the conv. TFT. 
  
Table 1.1: 1T-DRAM operating conditions. 
 
 
Fig. 1.4: Sensing current windows of the TO 
TFT and conventional TFT. 
 
 
Fig. 1.5: Retention time of the TO TFT and 
conventional TFT. 
Fig. 1.2: IDS-VDS characteristics of the TO TFT 
and conventional TFT. 
 
 
Fig. 1.6: Sensing current windows vs. LG of the 
TO TFT and conventional TFT. 
Fig 1.3: Figure 4. IDS-VGS characteristics of the 
TO TFT and conventional TFT. 
 
 
Ⅰ. Noted that the overdrive Vov = 1 V is adopted 
for both the gate biases. 
 
Fig. 1.13 shows the simulation results of 
1T-DRAM operations. We observed that the 
sensing current window of the AITFT is about 
3.77μA/μm, which is larger than that of the 
conventional TFT (~1.21μA/μm). Because our 
proposed structure can not only accumulate more 
excessive holes, but also keep holes in the trench 
efficiently. 
For both the “0”-state and “1”-state, at least 
1μA of current difference are considered to 
provide proper read operation. Fig.1.14 shows 
the retention characteristics of the AITFT and 
conventional TFT. The retention time of the 
proposed AITFT is 1.42 times longer than the 
conventional TFT. This is because the dielectric 
constant of the airgap (~1) is lower than the 
oxide (~3.9), hence improving the blocking 
ability and reducing the encroachment of the 
drain electric field to the pseudo neutral region. 
Fig.1.15 shows the body potential raised by the 
drain bias. The raised body potential of the 
conventional TFT is larger than that of the 
AITFT, resulting in that the holes are difficult to 
store in the pseudo neutral region. 
Fig. 1.9: The proposed structure of the new TFT 
with trenched body and airgap-insulated 
structure (AI TFT) 
 
 
Table 1.2: Device parameters according to the 
simulation results 
  
Fig.1.16 shows the retention characteristics 
versus body concentration. In general, the body 
impurity concentration is increased to avoid 
short-channel effects. But, the depletion region 
width is decreased, leading to an increase in the 
tunneling leakage current. Therefore, the “1” and 
“0” retention time becomes shorter due to the 
increasing PN junction leakage. 
Fig.1.17 shows the retention characteristics 
associated with the temperature for both devices. 
As the lattice temperature is increased, the 
electrons can obtain an additional thermal energy 
to increase the jumping probability from the 
valence band into the conduction band. Thus, the 
drain current is increased when temperature is 
also increased. The retention characteristics are 
sensitive to the lattice temperature. For 
nMOSFETs, the holes are generated when the 
lattice temperature is drastically increased. As a 
result, the “0”-state retention characteristic is 
more vulnerable at high temperature. 
Fig. 1.10: Ion versus Ioff for the AITFT and 
conventional TFT. 
 
 
the AITFT and the conventional TFT. 
 Fig. 1.16: Retention characteristics of the 
AITFT for different body concentrations. The 
“1” and “0” retention time becomes shorter due 
to the increasing PN junction leakage. 
  
. 1.17: Retention characteristics associated 
Research of Multi-Source/Drain SOI 
o types of 
multi source/drain MOSFET to investigate the 
ps of multi-source/drain 
MOS
 
elect
n of the proposed device had 
reach
Fig
with the different temperatures for both devices. 
The “0”-state retention characteristic is more 
vulnerable at high temperature. 
  
2. 
MOSFET for SONOS application: 
In this project, we demonstrate tw
electrical properties:  
The process ste
FET with cover gate are as follow: 
Three-dimensional (3-D) process simulation tool 
DEVISE was used to build the proposed 
structure. Fig. 2.1 shows the main process steps 
of the multi-S/D SOI MOSFET. The process 
starts an SOI wafer (Fig.2.1(a)) which is used as 
substrate (boron, 5x1015/cm3). Then, a 
photolithography process is carried out in order 
to form the 50 nm-thick MESA-type silicon 
layer (Fig.2.1(b)), after that, we firstly define the 
active region. Second, a 10 nm-thick gate oxide 
is thermally growth on the surface of the SOI 
substrate (Fig.2.1(c)). Then, we deposit a 10 
nm-thick nitride layer and etch back to form a 
spacer (Fig.2.1(d)). After the 5 nm-thick oxide 
layer was deposit to form a tunneling layer 
(Fig.2.1(e)), a 50 nm-thick layer of polysilicon 
(poly-Si). After the gate patterning (Fig. 2(d)), 
we define the active region again for the multi 
S/D structure ((Fig.2.1(f),(g)). Before the S/D 
doping (arsenic, 2x1019/cm3), the screen oxide 
is deposited and etched back to form the oxide 
spacer as shown in Fig. 2(f). After that, the 
proposed structure multi-S/D SOI MOSFET can 
be done. Fig.2.1(h) and Fig.2.1(i) show the 
conventional multi-source/drain SOI MOSFET. 
When the SONOS device is programming,
rons will trap in the nitride spacer by hot 
carrier injection separately duo to the multi-drain 
structure. Besides, the position of source and 
drain can switch independently owing to the 
voltage bias.     
The fabricatio
ed the back-end processing. 
 
 
3. Research of Novel Self-aligned Bulk 
MOSFET with Internal Block Layers: 
Fig. 3.1 (a) shows the planer bMPI (PbMPI) 
device, Fig. 3.1 (b) and Fig. 3.1 (c) show the 
vertical bMPI (VbMPI) device with Lfin = 45 nm 
(VbMPI45) and 90 nm (VbMPI90). The 
simulation parameters of Lg, Lfin, and H are given 
in Table 3.1. 
By using ISE-TCAD 2-D simulations, we 
investigated the characteristics of the vertical 
MOSFET with the middle partial insulation and 
block oxide with 45 nm gate length (VbMPI45), 
and VbMPI90 compared with the Planar bMPI 
(PbMPI) structure [11]. Fig. 3.2 shows the 
IDS-VGS of the three devices, and the device 
parameters of the devices are shown in Table 3.2. 
We can observe that our proposed VbMPI 
structures have lower leakage current and 
subthreshold swing (S.S.) due to the double-gate 
scheme having great gate controllability to the 
channel. Additionally, because of the narrow fin, 
VbMPI45 has a better gate controllability 
compared with the VbMPI90. The VbMPI90 
shows a lower on-state current and higher 
drain-induced barrier lowering. It is because the 
larger drain region increases its control to the 
channel and thereby decreasing the gate control 
over the channel. For the comparison between 
PbMPI and VbMPI45 the double-gate helps to 
decrease the DIBL effect which shows better 
short. 
In the following, we carefully examine the 
1T-DRAM characteristics of the devices. Table 
3.3 gives the operating biasing conditions. Fig. 
3.3 shows the programming window of PbMPI, 
VbMPI45, and VbMPI90. It is obvious that a 
desired programming window is obtained for a 
VbMPI90. And why the VbMPI90 can get a larger 
programming window than the VbMPI45 is 
because a larger holes accumulation region is 
presented in the VbMPI90. For the comparison 
between VbMPI45 and PbMPI, a larger drain 
junction helps improve the erasing holes. In 
addition, due to its large impact ionization, the 
programming window is improved. 
Fig. 3.4 shows the retention time of the 
devices. Because of the vertical structure, the 
retention time behavior of VbMPI is similar to 
the programming window behavior of the planar 
bMPI. It should be also noticed that a large 
leakage current leads to small retention time, 
which is resulting from a large electron hole 
recombination. 
The transient characteristics of 1T-DRAM 
for sensing current window ( Δ IDS) versus 
temperature are shown in Fig. 3.5 Due to the 
temperature increased from 300K to 400K, the 
recombination probability is increased; hence, 
theΔIDS is decreased by about 50%. But these 
results are based on tied devices, we believe that 
the fully isolated device will show much serious 
thermal instability for decreasing theΔIDS. 
 We also consider the characteristics of 
retention time for a bMPI structure as a function 
of environment temperature. The bMPI structure 
has a path from the channel via the S/D to the 
substrate, and thus, it dissipates the generated 
heat. Improved immunity to heat in the bMPI 
structure compared to the SOI is verified [12], as 
shown in Figs. 3.6-8. In order to compare the 
sensing currents of PbMPI, VbMPI45, and 
VbMPI90, respectively, the Y axis will fix on 
15mA (ex. max.-min.). We can observe the 
retention time decreasing when the temperature 
increases. This is due to the fact that the thermal 
lattice vibrations increase the electron-hole pair 
  
Fig. 3.8: The retention time versus temperature 
characteristics of VbMPI90. 
Fig. 3.5: The transient characteristics of the 
PbMPI, VbMPI45, and VbMPI90 structures forΔ
IDS versus temperature. 
 
4. New Vertical MOSFETs with Recessed 
Gate: 
 
    In this part, we carefully investigate the 
novel Vertical MOSFETs with Recessed Gate 
applications (RGVMOS) [13]. The fabricated 
process and the simulation results are as 
follows: The Si dioxide (Ox) is deposited in a 
bulkSi wafer and then patterned. Two steps of 
anisotropic and isotropic etching processes are 
carried out, respectively as shown in Fig. 4.1(a). 
The Ox is deposited and planarized using 
chemical mechanical planarization (CMP). The 
planarized Ox is then etched off to reveal the Si. 
A layer of polysilicon (poly-Si) is then 
deposited in order to be part of the active 
region as shown in Fig. 4.1(b). A second mask 
is carried out to define the source region. The 
channel implantation process is performed 
(1×1013cm-2, 5kev, boron). The Ox is then 
stripped out. After the formation of growing 
gate Ox (GOX) (1.2 nm) and the deposition of 
an in-situ poly-Si gate (1×1020cm-3, As), an 
anisotropic etching is carried out to obtain Fig. 
4.1(c)-(d). Next, the source/drain (S/D) 
implantation process (7.3×1015cm-2, 4.3kev, 
arsenic) is used to form the source and drain 
regions. Finally, a standard metal 1 process is 
used as back-end-of-line (BEOF). For 
comparison Fig. 4.2 shows the simulated results 
of different VMOS transistors designed. 
Fig. 3.6: The retention time versus temperature 
characteristics of PbMPI. 
 
Fig. 3.7: The retention time versus temperature 
characteristics of VbMPI45. The Cgd-VGs characteristics are shown in Fig. 4.3(a). The enlargement of the Cgd-VGs 
characteristics at VDs = 1.0 V is shown in Fig. 
4.3(b). It should be noted that the conventional 
 (c) 
Fig. 4.2: Three types of different VMOS 
transistors. 
 Fig. 4.1: The major process steps of a 
RGVMOS. Note that the distance between two 
gates is 16 nm and the radius of the two gates is 
56 nm. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(a) 
 (b) Fig. 4.3: Characteristics of Cgd-VGs for 
different VMOS devices. 
(b) 
 
(1) Novel Polysilicon Thin-Film 
Transistors with Trenched-Oxide Body and 
Air-Gap Insulator for 1T DRAM: We find out 
that the proposed TO TFT has several desired 
features as follows: 1. Simple process is obtained 
because both the active region and the BOX are 
formed simultaneously. 2. A trench oxide 
scheme is used to suppress the leakage current, 
to enhance the kink effect (sensing current 
window + 84%) and to enlarge the retention time 
(+ 57%). 3. The thermal stability can be 
improved by its natural source/drain tie; hence, 
the device reliability issue caused by the 
self-heating can thus be significantly decreased. 
Besides, A new TFT with trenched body and 
airgap-insulated structure has achieves excess 
212% sensing current window and 42% less 
retention time, when compared with the 
conventional TFT. Also, because both the body 
and source/drain regions of the proposed AITFT 
are polysilicon that can be deposited by the 
existing CVD techniques, it is simple and good 
for 3D stack device and memory applications. 
(2) Research of Multi-Source/Drain SOI 
MOSFET: Multi-source/drain SOI MOSFET is 
one novel nano-transistor and its multi 
source/drain structure for SONOS application 
can realize a multi-bits characteristic in a single 
device, and hence, the multi current density and 
the electrical performance of SONOS application 
are observed in I-V characteristics. 
 (3) Novel Self-aligned Bulk MOSFET 
with Internal Block Layers: We have for the 
first time proposed a vertical 1T-DRAM device 
with bMPI structure. Due to its double-gate 
scheme that helps enhance the gate 
controllability to the channel, the Ion-Ioff current 
ratio is improved. Besides, owning to the 
self-aligned process being carried out, the 
vertical channel region is fabricated beyond the 
top of the bMPI structure successfully. In 
addition, the bMPI structure and vertical channel 
region help the proposed 1T-DRAM device to 
increase the neutral region for holes 
accumulation compared with the conventional 
vertical 1T-DRAM.  
(4) New Vertical MOSFETs with 
Recessed Gate: Our new device called 
RGVMOS has been proposed in this paper. 
Simulation results show that our proposed 
VMOS structure is good for reducing parasitic 
overlap capacitance and enhancing the drain 
saturation current. Although both values of Cgd 
and Cgs of our RGVMOS are slightly higher 
than the EGVMOS, as compared with the 
conventional VMOS both Cgd and Cgs can be 
reduced about 12% and 38.78%, respectively at 
VDs = 1.0 V. Additionally, the 
short-channel-effect immunity of the RGVMOS 
is slightly degraded but the results are still 
acceptable. The kink effect is also ameliorated in 
the RGVMOS. Due to the presence of the 
semicircle gate structure and simple device 
process, our proposed VMOS structure 
demonstrates better process method compared 
with the EGVMOS, which is good for future 
VMOS scaling. 
In our lab, we have proposed several 
international journal papers, international 
conference papers, and national papers. 
Moreover, same important patents have been 
obtained based on our study and works. 
 
五、計畫相關發表論文 
本研究群的相關研究結果，2009年發表期刊
兩篇，國際會議論文10篇，獲專利領證4件和
國內會議論文13篇。2010年後SCI期刊發表六
篇，包含1篇IEEE TED（2011/2 accepted），
其他期刊發表一篇，和國際會議論文33篇，國
內會議論文9篇。此外，中華民國專利 98年
度獲領證 9件， 99年度領證至目前 3件，
美國一件領證中，同時提出約十中華民國專
利和兩件美國專利申請中。且發表在IEEE第十
屆2010`ICSICT國際會議之論文獲最佳學生論
文獎。 
 
六、參考文獻 
[1] Akihiro Nitayama, Yusuke Kohyama, and 
Katsuhiko Hieda, ” Future Directions For 
DRAM Memory Cell Technology” in Proc. 
Int. Conf. Elec. Devices Meeting, 1998, pp. 
355-358. 
[2]  S. Okhonin, M. Nagoga, J.M. Sallese and P. 
Fazan, “A SOI capacitor-less 1T-DRAM 
第十屆國際固態和積體電路技術會議（ICSICT 2010） 
計畫主持人：林吉聰 
 
第十屆國際固態和積體電路技術會議（ICSICT 2010）是由國際電機電子工
程師學會（IEEE）和復旦大學資訊學院共同舉辦，於 11 月 1 日-4 日在浦東湯臣
洲際大酒店順利召開。ICSICT 是在亞洲舉行的有關半導體和積體電路技術、元
件、設計的最重要的國際會議之一。這次的會議請來了中科院外籍院士、美國耶
魯大學教授 T.P.Ma（大會主席）致詞開幕，大會程序委員會主席、復旦大學教
授湯庭鼇報告了會議的程序。 
此次會議有來自28個國家和地區的600多位代表參加，其中海外人士有250
人。重要的是國際著名半導體專家、CMOS 技術創始人薩支唐教授、中科院院士
王陽元教授等國內外著名學者就半導體、積體電路技術的歷史和最新的發展做了
8個精彩的主題報告。3天的會議分 18 個專題進行了 64 場分組報告和兩場海報
展示，就 CMOS 元件技術、MEMS 技術、半導體記憶體技術、數位和類比電路設計
技術及其應用等的最新研究成果進行交流。並且，十家著名的半導體公司和 EDA
商展示了最新技術和產品。同時我們實驗室研究群也分別在上述各領域發表多篇
口頭與壁報論文被接受，值得欣慰。 
ICSICT 2010 還設立了優秀學生論文獎，根據各分會場主席的評分以及由 8
位國內外專家組成的評審委員會的評審，會議從 47 位申請人中評出了 8篇優秀
最佳學生論文，其中 6篇為口頭報告、2篇為大字報報告。值得幸慶的是我們實
驗室也獲得優秀學生最佳論文獎這項殊榮。與會專家認為此次會議學生論文的品
質和演講水準有顯著提高。 
參加這次會議我覺得收穫很大，主要在於學術方面的交流，認識了一些新朋
友。在這段時間內我也學到了不少東西，無論是同領域相關的或是不同領域的知
識，多多少少吸收一點也有助於將來面對多變的半導體產業的適應性，在與人學
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/20
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 新高性能奈米元件與多重源汲極魚者式電晶體開發(I)
計畫主持人: 林吉聰
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-110-075- 學門領域: 固態電子 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 垂直式多位元SONOS記憶體元件及其製造方法
(英文) VERTICAL SONOS MEMORY DEVICE AND METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING 
THE SAME
成果歸屬機構
國立中山大學 發明人
(創作人)
林吉聰,林勃劦,張又哲
技術說明
(中文) 本發明關於一種垂直式多位元SONOS記憶體元件及其製造方法，其包括：一基板、
一閘極部、一第一氧化層、一側壁氮化矽層、一第二氧化層及一半導體層。該閘
極部形成於該基板上。該第一氧化層形成於該閘極部上。該側壁氮化矽層形成於
該第一氧化層之側邊。該第二氧化層形成於該側壁氮化矽層上。該半導體層形成
於該第二氧化層及該基板上，該半導體層具有至少一源極部及至少一汲極部。本
發明之垂直式多位元SONOS記憶體元件可在單一元件中實現儲存多位元數的操作，
增加元件的集積度。且可以增加元件捕獲電子的能力與增強元件在寫入速度與縮
短寫入時間。
(英文) The invention relates to a vertical SONOS memory device and method for manufacturing 
the same. The vertical SONOS memory device includes a substrate, a gate, a first oxide 
layer, a spacer silicon nitride layer, a second oxide layer, a semiconductor layer. The gate 
is formed on the substrate. The first oxide layer is formed on the gate. The spacer silicon 
nitride layer is formed on a side wall of the first oxide layer. The second oxide layer is 
formed on the spacer silicon nitride layer. The semiconductor layer is formed on the 
second oxide layer and the substrate, and has at least one source and at least one drain. 
The vertical SONOS memory device of the invention can perform the operation for 
storing multi-bits in one single device so as to increase the integration. Furthermore, the 
ability for capturing electron can be improved and the writing speed can be accelerated 
and the writing time can be shortened.
產業別 其他專業、科學及技術服務業
技術/產品應用範圍
本技術應用於非揮發性SONOS記憶體元件，可應用的產品如可斷電攜帶型的儲存型電子產
品。
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本案有技術移轉可行性
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1.發表在 IEEE 第十屆 2010`ICSICT 國際會議之論文獲最佳學生論文獎。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
