中文摘要 
安全、高效率、造型流線的車用燈具，一直是車燈研究發展的目標。除了溫度效應的影
響外，振動及衝擊外力的影響，對車用頭燈的可靠度設計亦是另一重要的議題。本計畫之
目的即是將針對高功率 LED 車用頭燈照明系統，發展『可靠度工程之電腦輔助整合技術』，
應用『可靠度植入設計』及『最佳化設計』等技術，整合「可靠度分析」、「熱傳分析」、「結
構應力」及「動態振動分析」等之電腦輔助模擬技術，期望能從耐高溫及耐衝擊震動的方
向，有效管理散熱效應及抗震能力，以提升車用 LED 頭燈照明系統之相關可靠度工程及最
佳化設計技術。 
本計劃執行至今之概況及成效茲簡述如下： 
1. 已發展 LED 構裝單體光源與燈組之流熱場耦合分析技術，並已將相關成果發表
於國內之學術研討會[1,2]，相信這對相關產業可提供一個可靠且迅速的 LED 封
裝及燈組散熱設計方法； 
2. 已發展熱電耦及紅外線顯像之電腦輔助溫度場反應量測，這對未來本計畫之執行
將有相當的助益。 
3. 已發展 LED 構裝單體光源與燈組之最佳化技術，此技術整合了遺傳基因演算法
及流熱場耦合分析，並已將相關成果發表於國內之學術研討會[2]，相信這對 LED
燈組產業可提供一個可靠且迅速的散熱管理最佳化設計之分析技術； 
4. 已發展隨機性流熱場耦合分析，且已成功應用於 LTCC 散熱基板之隨機參數敏感
性分析，相關成果即將發表於國外之學術研討會[4]，相信這對 LED 之 LTCC 散
熱基板產業可提供亟需高品質量產能量之設計管理分析技術； 
5. 已發展車用頭前燈 LED 光源系統散熱管理的可靠度整合設計技術，探討車用頭
前燈 LED 光源模組於隨機環境溫度下之可靠度分析評估技術。相關成果已將發
表於國內之學術研討會[3]， 
6. 計畫執行至今已建立良好之產學合作關係，如 LED 封裝產業(台灣琭旦)、散熱基
板(禾伸堂)及研究中心（財團法人車輛測試研究中心）等，對後續之研究執行將
有相當的助益； 
7. 計畫執行期間，曾受邀財團法人車輛測試研究中心於「車用 LED、DLS 頭燈系
統研發技術研討會(97 年 12 月 25 日)」發表『高可靠度車用 LED頭前燈系統的挑
戰』之專題報告。 
藉由以上之陳述，本計畫已初步完成為車用 LED 照明產業有效導入『可靠度最佳化整
合技術』的基礎，不僅可有效提升產品研發品質，更可縮短 LED 車用頭燈產品之開發時程
及降低產品研發成本，相信這必定對國內 LED產業及車燈開發產業有所助益。 
關鍵字：高功率車用 LED 頭燈，可靠度限制之最佳化設計，可靠度植入設計，隨機性有限
元素分析。 
 
壹、 前言 
安全、高效率、造型流線的車用燈具，一直是車燈研究發展的目標。除了溫度效應的影
響外，振動及衝擊外力的影響，對車用頭燈的可靠度設計亦是另一重要的議題。本計畫之
目的即是將針對高功率 LED 車用頭燈照明系統，發展『可靠度工程之電腦輔助整合技術』，
應用『可靠度植入設計』及『最佳化設計』等技術，整合「可靠度分析」、「熱傳分析」、「結
構應力」及「動態振動分析」等之電腦輔助模擬技術，期望能從耐高溫及耐衝擊震動的方
向，有效管理散熱效應及抗震能力，以提升車用 LED 頭燈照明系統之相關可靠度工程及最
佳化設計技術。 
貳、 研究目的及方法 
本計畫之針對高功率 LED 車用頭燈照明系統，發展『可靠度工程之電腦輔助整合技
術』，應用『可靠度植入設計』及『最佳化設計』等技術，整合「可靠度分析」、「熱傳分
析」、「結構應力」及「動態振動分析」等之電腦輔助模擬技術。相關研究方法請參考參
考文獻[1-4]中發表文章之內容。 
參、 結果與討論 
一、 含銀 LTCC 散熱基板之 LED 燈組的散熱分析與驗證[1] 
對照明等產品而言，LED 的輸入功率轉換成光與熱，而熱則通常需迅速的由晶片組層
級，一路依循基板層級路徑以熱傳導方式將廢熱傳至燈罩，而後再藉由燈罩與外圍環境接
觸，適時的以熱傳遞方式將熱排出予周遭的空氣。欲解決 LED 燈組的散熱問題，必須從
LED 晶片組層級、散熱基板層級及燈罩組等三方面同時著手。 
本研究針對目前市售之高亮度 LED 燈組，探討含銀 LTCC 散熱基板及燈具中各組件對
整體散熱效率的影響。經由 ANSYS 電腦輔助模擬分析與溫度場實驗量測相互驗證，使能
建立最佳之 LED 燈組的電腦輔助模擬散熱分析模式。為建立最佳之有限元素分析模式，研
究中將市售之高亮度 LED 燈組分解成塑膠燈蓋、鋁合金燈罩、塑膠燈座、含銀 LTCC 基板
與 LED 晶片組等各組件。其中鋁合金燈罩與散熱基板間以散熱膏薄層黏合，而 LED 晶片
組中包含四元 InGaAlP LED 晶片及矽膠膜層。首先，在溫度場量測之研究中，市售 5W LED
燈組將被置於恆溫恆濕機中，並利用紅外線熱像儀來量測燈組中各組件的溫度分佈。其量
測結果再與 ANSYS 流熱耦合場之電腦輔助模擬分析結果相互驗證。圖（一）及(二)簡要說
明其內容及成果。 
  
圖（一）、5W LED 燈組各組件示意圖。 圖（二）、5W LED 藍光燈組之 IT 測溫度分析。 
光源系統的可靠度分析。研究中，將考量光源模組所處之環境溫度因變異而顯現隨機特性
及模組組件因批量生產之製造尺度誤差所顯現隨機的行為。 
藉由本研究將可為企圖開發車用LED頭燈照明系統者建立電腦輔助散熱管理及可靠度
設計/分析之能量。如此，相信可為國內相關產業強化產品可靠度植入設計之能力與效率，
以提升車用LED頭燈照明系統相關可靠度工程技術之應用水準。圖（五）、(六)及(七)簡
要說明其內容及成果。 
Tref (
0C)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
86 91 96 101 106 111 116 121 126
Tmax   (0C)
R
el
ia
bi
lit
y
42 
43 
44 
45 
46 
47 
48 
49 
50 
51 
52 
53 
54 
55 
56 
57 
58 
圖（五）、車用 LED 頭前燈之系統層級分析。 圖（六）、車用LED頭前燈光源系統於隨機性
環境溫度下之可靠度分析。 
Tmax (0C)
0.00
0.10
0.20
0.30
0.40
0.50
0.60
0.70
0.80
0.90
1.00
1% 3% 5% 7% 9% 11% 13%
COV of Random Variables
R
el
ia
bi
lit
y
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
 
圖（七）、車用LED頭前燈光源系統不同隨機性變異特性之可靠度分析（Tref之均值為50 0C）。
四、Probabilistic Parametric Analysis of Thermal Conducting LTCC Substrate for 
the LED Lamp [4] 
The aim of this paper was to investigate the robustness of reliability-based design for the LED 
lamps.  Random influence of the geometric characteristics in the thermal via array (TVA) of 
LTCC substrate were investigated on the thermal performance and corresponding reliability of a 5 
Watts LED Lamp subject to the thermal limit of LED chips. 
Firstly, the flow and thermal coupled field analysis of the high power LED lamp were 
implemented into the deterministic simulation of the numerical thermal calculation using the 
ANSYSTM finite element method.  It was demonstrated that the accurate thermal distribution 
calculation of the commercial high power blue-lighting LED lamps are investigated by the 
 Figure 10: Relative sensitivity factors α  of 
the maximum junction temperature max,jT
for the PPC BRVs. 
Figure 11: Relative sensitivity factors β  of the 
maximum junction temperature max,jT  for the 
PPC BRVs. 
 
肆、 結論 
感謝國科會對本計畫之經費補助，藉由以上之陳述，本計畫已初步完成為車用 LED
照明產業有效導入『可靠度最佳化整合技術』的基礎，不僅可有效提升產品研發品質，更
可縮短 LED 車用頭燈產品之開發時程及降低產品研發成本，相信這必定對國內 LED 產業
及車燈開發產業有所助益。 
伍、參考文獻 
1) 林世章、黃榮豐及林耀聰，含銀 LTCC 散熱基板之 LED 燈組的散熱分析與驗
證，中國機械工程學會第 24屆全國學術研討會，民 96年 11月(編號：A01-0044)。 
2) 林世章、黃榮豐、林耀聰及游釗銘，高功率 LED 燈組之散熱最佳化設計，中
國機械工程學會第 24 屆全國學術研討會，民 96 年 11 月(編號：A01-0054)。 
3) 林世章、廖學隆、林耀聰及游釗銘，車用頭前燈 LED 光源系統散熱管理的可
靠度整合設計評估， 中國機械工程學會第 25 屆全國學術研討會，民 97 年 11
月(編號：CSME25-037)。 
4) S.C. Lin, R.F. Huang, C.C. Lin and Y.T. Lin, Probabilistic Parametric Analysis 
of Thermal Conducting LTCC Substrate for an LED Lamp, the Ninth 
International Conference on Computational Structures Technology, Athens, 
Greece, 2-5 Sep., 2008. 
討會，並發表論文(參考圖 4)參。參與此次會議對本人現今及未來之研究方向
有相當重要的影響，更拓增國際視野。 
 
圖 1：會議主席 Professor Barry H.V. Topping 
 
圖 2: 會議的一景 
發表之論文 
參考附件 
 
2 
characteristics of TVA in the LTCC substrate, can affect the thermal performance of 
the LED chips.  These factors appear to be scatter under mass production and should 
be treated as random variables in the reliability-based design. 
In actual application, uncertainty and variability in processing can lead to over- or 
under-designed products.  Adopting a probabilistic approach to design [4], such as 
robust design and reliability-based design, can help manufacturers to quantify these 
variations and ensure optimal performance of all elements and less costly 
configuration.  Both robust design and reliability-based design try to deal with 
uncertainties.  A robust design is a design that is insensitive (or less sensitive) to 
input variations.  In the context of reliability-based design, a definition of robustness 
[5] that can be translated directly into a design criterion is that a robust design is one 
that is least sensitive to the change in the statistics of the random variables (such as 
the mean, standard deviation and type of a distribution). 
In this paper, the robustness of a reliability-based design for the LED lamps are 
investigated by the PPSA method and the attempts will be focused on the change in 
the deviation of random variables.  By the demonstration of probabilistic numerical 
simulation, it can be seen that the proposed PPSA method is useful and feasible in 
identifying the contributors to the design of the thermal conducting LTCC 
substrates. 
 
2  Flow/Thermal Coupled Field Analysis 
 
For the efficient thermal management of the LED lighting application, not only the 
LTCC substrate but also the lampshade should be designed to serve as the heat sink.  
With convection cooling in the performance regime, the cooling design, utilizing an 
integrated approach of convection, conduction, and thermodynamic cycles, must be 
developed for higher heat loads of new devices.  Since thermal management must 
consider the complete thermal path from heat source to heat sink, the thermal 
management must consider the entire system.  In this paper, the flow and thermal 
coupled filed problem of a 5 Watts LED lamp is considered in the following 
numerical study. 
In ANSYSTM numerical simulation [6], two numerical techniques are available for 
combining physics fields: direct-coupled and sequential-coupled fields.  Direct-
coupled analysis assembles all the physics fields as finite-element equations in one 
matrix and solves the matrix as a whole.  In sequential coupling, the equation for 
one field is partially solved and the results passed as loads (the results of one physics 
field interacting with another) to the next physics field to drive its partial solution.  
The analysis software then passes this iteration to the next physics field, and so on, 
down to the last field.  Then, the sequential iteration process begins all over again 
and continues until a final solution is achieved. 
In this study, the ANSYSTM direct-coupled technique is used to solve the flow and 
thermal coupled field analysis of the high power LED lamps under the forced or 
natural convection problem.  The configuration of the commercial high-power LED 
lamp, consisted of the Aluminum (Al) alloy lampshade, plastic lampholder, LTCC 
substrate with Ag thermal via array, Al-In-P-Ga LED chips and the coating 
(silicone) layer, is constructed in Figure 1.  The ANSYSTM finite element, i.e. Fluid 
4 
random thermal performance function; and iibii
SF ,
2)2(
, ε=  is adopted in the 
following PPSA. 
 
4 Reliability-Based Design 
 
In reliability-based design, in general, the reliability of the design system can be 
defined by the limit state function.  In this study, the limit state function for the case 
of the LED chips is considered as 
 
maxmax j,TTg −=             (3) 
 
where the parameter maxT  in Eq. (3) is known as the thermal limit and is equal to 
115 0C in this study.  The limit state 0=g  divides the design space into two 
regions, i.e. the safety region ( 0>g ) and the failure region ( 0<g ).  Because of the 
uncertainties in the design parameters, the function g  is a random function itself.  
As a result, we can not be certain in advance whether g  fall into the safe region or 
the failure region for an arbitrary LED in the service.  We can only expect that the 
LED is designed so that the probability of 0>g  will be as more positive as 
possible.  In the mathematical terms, this is expressed as 
 
R = Prob[ 0>g ]              (4) 
 
In engineering practice, the safety index [4], instead of structural reliability, is often 
used to represent the reliability level.  When g  has a normal distribution, the safety 
index has a one-to-one correspondence with the structural reliability, and is given by 
 
gS
g=−−= − )1(Φ 1 Rλ             (5) 
 
where g  and gS  are the mean value and STD of the g-function; and Φ  is 
cumulative distribution function for the standard normal distribution. 
In the case where g  have other distributions, Eq (5) is not valid, but in general a 
larger λ  corresponds to a higher reliability level.  Thus, in the following PPSA the 
safety index will be employed to measure the sensitivity of reliability to the BRV’s 
statistics in the LED application. 
 
5 Probabilistic Parametric Sensitivity Analysis 
 
In general, there are two ways for improving the reliability in the design process, 
one is to shift the performance to the reliability target and the other is to progress the 
6 
the percentage change in F , FS  and λ ,respectively, for each percent of change in 
STD biS  of the specific BRV. 
 
In the above derivation, the magnitudes of sensitivity factors, i.e. α , β and η , can 
be used to study the trend of BRV’s variation in terms of how to progress the 
statistics of thermal performance for improving the robustness of the resulting 
reliability. 
 
6  Numerical Examples 
 
6.1 Determinate Coupled Field Analysis 
 
Thermal management to reduce LED’s junction temperature is one of the 
fundamental requirements for LED modules to ensure basic specifications met in 
many aspects.  In this study, the ANSYSTM flow and thermal coupled field analysis 
is used to simulate the thermal performance of a 5 Watts LED lamp.  The 
configuration and geometry of a commercial LED lamp is constructed in Figure 1 
and the material/thermal parameters of the constituent parts for this lamp are shown 
in Table 1.  Here, the thin layer of the thermal gel bonded LTCC substrate to the 
lampshade is also included in the finite element model.  To verify the accuracy of 
the developed method, the numerical simulation is constructed and results are 
compared with Infrared Thermo vision measurement data.  With the maximum 
temperature of 98.5 0C, Figure 2 shows the measured thermal distribution on 
silicone coating for a 5W LED blue-light lamp which were tested at the 40 0C and 
70% relative humidity in the temperature/humidity chamber.  By the ANSYSTM 
flow/thermal coupled field analysis of the LED lamp subject to the force convection 
with 100 mm/s air velocity, Figure 3 shows the thermal distribution of the silicone 
coating and the maximum temperature of 100.99 0C.  As shown in Figures 2 and 3, 
the numerical simulation results agree well with the measurement by Infrared 
Thermovision.  Based on the above results, thus, the feasibility and accuracy of the 
developed ANSYSTM flow/thermal coupled field analysis of the LED lamp has been 
demonstrated.  Figure 4 shows the thermal distribution of the LTCC substrate with 
the LED chips and maximum junction temperature maxj,T  of 102.37 
0C.   
 
6.2 Probabilistic Coupled Field Analysis 
 
To investigate the reliability analysis and PPSA of the LED lamps, the forthright 
model of thermal via array arrangement for the LTCC substrate will be adopted in 
the following study.  As shown in Figure 5, the geometries of TVA, such as the via 
width W, via heights Hi (i=1,2,..,4), and layer thicknesses Tj (j=1,2,..,5) in LTCC 
substrate, are treated as the BRVs.  In the probabilistic study, the mean values of the 
random variables are given and the coefficient of variation (COV) for all BRVs are 
1%.  In this study, two types of statistical correlation for the BRVs are considered.  
One case is that each of BRVs are stochastic independent (SI), and the other is that 
8 
thermal performance and the corresponding reliability.  If these factors can be 
identified, they can be used to enhance the robustness of the product design and 
desired reliability. 
 
Acknowledgement 
 
This research are supported by the National Science Council (Grant No. NSC 96-
2221-E-150-045) and Holy Stone Enterprise, Taiwan.  Their supports are gratefully 
acknowledged. 
 
References 
 
[1] P. Wang et al., “Thick Silver Tape in Low Temperature Co-fired Ceramic 
(LTCC) for Thermal Management”, Proc. of Inter Microelectronics 
Conference, IMAPS, Baltimore, MD, 2001. 
[2]   .K. Jones, “Micro Heat Pipes in Low Temperature Co-fired Ceramic (LTCC) 
Substrates”, IEEE Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies, 
Vol. 26, No. 1, March, 2003. 
[3]  .A. Zampino, R. Kandukuri, and W.K. Jones, ”High Performance Thermal 
Vias in LTCC substrate”, Inter Society Conference on Thermal Phenomena, 
pp. 179-185, 2002. 
[4] Ang and Tang, “Probability Concepts in Engineering: Emphasis on 
Applications to Civil and Environmental Engineering”, the 2nd Ed., John 
Wiley & Sons, 1997. 
[5] W. Wang, Y.T. Wu and R.V. Lust, ”Deterministic Design, Reliability-based 
Design and Robust Design”, MSC 1997 Aerospace Users' Conference 
Proceedings 
[6] ANSYS Manual Release 10. 
[7] S.C. Lin, C.C. Lin, and C.H. Tzu, “Reliability Analysis of the Flip Chip 
package subjected to the Fatigue and Fracture Failures”, the 9th International 
Fatigue Congress, May 14-19, Atlanta, Georgia, USA, 2006. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
 
Figure 2: Thermal distribution on the coating layer of LED die measured 
by Infrared Thermo vision for a 5W blue-light lamp. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Thermal distribution of the coating layer from the simulation 
for the 5W blue light lamp. 
12 
 
 
Figure 6: The reliability analysis of the LED chips subject to different 
thermal limits. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Relative sensitivity factors α  of the maximum junction 
temperature max,jT  for the PPC BRVs. 
14 
 
Figure 10: Relative sensitivity factors α  of the maximum junction 
temperature max,jT  for all BRVs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Relative sensitivity factors β  of the maximum junction 
temperature max,jT  for all BRVs. 
16 
 
Figure 14: Relative sensitivity factors β  of the maximum junction 
temperature max,jT  for the SI BRVs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-8.E-1
-6.E-1
-4.E-1
-2.E-1
0.E+0
1% 2% 3%
COV of SI BRVs
Se
ns
iti
vi
ty
 h
W
T
H
Figure 15: Relative sensitivity factors η  of the reliability subject to the 
max,jT  limited to the 115 
0C thermal limit for the SI BRVs.  
研討會大會期間邀請了力學大師 T.J.R. Hughes(參考圖3) 演講
Isogeometric Analysis於生物力學上的應用，Hughes相信此一等向式
(h-version)有限元素分析的發展將能統合CAD及有限元素分析技術，使電腦輔
助模擬分析的能力更穩定及更精確，這確實大大的提升了電腦輔助設計的應用
水準。 
特別感謝行政院國家科學委員補助經會，使本人能參與此次國際學術研
討會，並發表論文(參考圖 4)參。參與此次會議對本人現今及未來之研究方向
有相當重要的影響，更拓增國際視野。 
 
圖 1：會議主席 Professor Barry H.V. Topping 
 
圖 4: 論文首頁 
 
1 
Abstract 
 
The aim of this paper is to investigate the robustness of a reliability-based design 
for the LED lamps.  Firstly, the deterministic simulation method to predict LED’s 
junction temperature using ANSYSTM flow and thermal coupled field analysis is 
developed.  The accuracy of the developed method is verified by comparing 
numerical results with the Infrared Thermovision measurement.  Furthermore, the 
probabilistic parametric sensitivity analysis (PPSA) of the high power LED lamp is 
constructed by the methodology-collaborative development of ANSYSTM 
flow/thermal coupled numerical simulation and the stochastic mean-centered second 
order approximation (SMSOA) approach.  In the probabilistic simulation of the 
developed PPSA, the sensitivity factors can be used to measure the sensitivity of the 
design parameter statistics on the thermal performance statistics of the LED chips 
and their resulting reliability.  By the demonstration of probabilistic numerical 
simulation, it can be seen that the proposed methodology is useful in identifying the 
key contributors to the design of LTCC as LED heat dissipation substrates and for 
progressing the robustness of the resulting reliability. 
 
Keywords: flow/thermal coupled field analysis, parametric probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, LTCC, thermal via array, LED lamp. 
 
1  Introduction 
 
Recently, low temperature co-fired ceramic (LTCC) with thermal via array (TVA) 
[1-3] is finding increased usage as a heat dissipation substrate, especially in the high 
power LED applications, due to it’s effective thermal conduction at high heat fluxes.  
LTCC with TVAs have been demonstrated [1] to be structurally stable and reliably 
manufactured in the present thermal conducting applications [3].  For the issue of 
quality assurance, therefore, there is a need to develop the probabilistic analysis for 
the design of TVA in LTCC substrates.  Many factors, such as geometric 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paper 179 
 
Probabilistic Parametric Analysis of the  
Thermal Conducting LTCC Substrate for an LED Lamp 
 
S.C. Lin1, R.F. Huang2, C.C. Lin3 and Y.T. Lin1 
1 Institute of Mechanic and Electronic Engineering 
 National Formosa University, Taiwan 
2 Holy Stone Enterprise Co. Ltd., Taiwan 
3 Department of Mechanic and Automation Engineering 
 Dayeh University, Taiwan 
©Civil-Comp Press, 2008 
Proceedings of the Ninth International Conference  
on Computational Structures Technology,  
B.H.V. Topping and M. Papadrakakis, (Editors),  
Civil-Comp Press, Stirlingshire, Scotland 
3 
142, is used to model the 150 mm×150 mm×100 mm flow field with boundary 
conditions, i.e. 40 0C and 100 mm/s.  Firstly, in the fluid flow problem the laws of 
conservation of mass, momentum, and energy are solved in the specific conditions.  
Simultaneously, the ambient thermal properties (e.g. temperature and heat flux) on 
the surface of the LED lamp are coupled into the thermal field analysis to obtain the 
thermal distribution of the constituent parts in the LED lamp by the first law of 
thermodynamics states. 
 
3 Stochastic Finite Element Method 
 
Many factors, such as geometric design parameters of the TVA in the LTCC 
substrate, will affect the thermal performance of the LED junction temperature.  
These factors may be fluctuated randomly due to processing variation in mass 
production and should be treated as random variables in the design process. 
To formulate stochastic finite element method of the flow and thermal coupled 
analysis, the geometric design parameters ib  (i=1,2,…,M) are used to denote the 
stochastic independent baseline random variable (BRV), i.e. ),( ji bbCov =0, ji ≠ , 
and ),( ji bbCov 2biS=  with biS  as the standard deviation (STD) of BRV ib .  In this 
study, the thermal performance function F  is represented to be the maximum 
junction temperature (i.e. max,jTF = ) of the LED chips and treated as a random 
function.  The statistical moment of the random functions is derived from those of 
BRVs based on the SMSOA method [7].  The approximate mean and variance of 
random function can be expressed as 
 
      2
1
)2(
,
)0(
2
1
ib
M
i
ii SFFF ∑+≅ =  ,             (1) 
and 
       2
2
1
)1(
,
2 )(
ib
M
i
iF SFS ∑≅ =                  (2) 
where )0(F  is the zero-order term of random function, which is identical to the 
deterministic performance function and herein calculated by the ANSYSTM 
flow/thermal coupled numerical simulation; )1(,iF  is the first-order term of random 
function with respect to random variable ib ; and 
)2(
,ijF  is the second-order term with 
respect to random variables ib  and jb . 
In Eqs. (1) and (2), the finite different approximation is used to calculate the first-
order and second-order terms of the random function, the term FS  is the STD of 
5 
uncertain variation of the BRVs toward the target reliability.  In order to fulfil an 
efficient procedure for assessing the robustness of reliability-based design, it is 
necessary to study the sensitivity measure to change in the BRV’s statistics for 
sorting the important factors on the fluctuation of resulting reliability and the 
corresponding failure function statistics, respectively.  The following PPSA [6] will 
be developed to meet these objectives. 
Firstly, the relative sensitivity coefficient ,iα  is used to measure the sensitivity of 
the mean F  to the change of the STD ibS .  The first relative sensitivity factor can 
be expressed and estimated as 
 
FF
SF
F
S
S
F iibiiib
ib
,i
,
2)2(
, 2εα =≈∂
∂=         (6) 
 
Next, the relative sensitive coefficient ,iβ  is used to measure the sensitivity of the 
FS  to the change of the STD ibS .  The second relative sensitivity factor can be 
written as 
 
2
2
2
2
2)1(
, )(
F
iF
F
ib
i
F
ib
ib
F
,i
S
S
S
S
F
S
S
S
S =≈∂
∂=β           (7) 
 
where 22 )( ib
iiF
S
b
FS ∂
∂=  approached to the variance of performance function are 
influenced only by the specific BRV ib . 
Lastly, the relative sensitive coefficient i,η  will be used to measure the sensitivity 
of the reliability level λ  to change the STD of the specific BRV ib .  The third 
sensitivity factor is written as 
 
)
2
( 2
2
,
, λ
ε
λ
λη
F
iF
F
iib
ib
i
S
S
S
S
S
+−=∂=          (8) 
where 22 )( ib
iiF
S
b
FS ∂
∂=  is the variance of the thermal performance function 
influenced only by the specific BRV ib . 
The multipliers Fib SS  in Eqs (6) and (7) and λibS  in Eq (8) are used to 
make them nondimensional.  With this multiplier, each relative sensitivity represents 
7 
andom variables of Hi and Tj are treated as the perfect positive correlation (PPC) 
and considered to be Hi = H and Tj = T.  In Figure 6, the reliability of a 5W LED 
Lamp subject to the thermal performance maxj,T  restricted to less than thermal limits 
maxT  are shown for different BRVs’ variations.  Because of the randomness in the 
design parameters, the thermal performance is a random function itself.  In the 
advance of mass production, we are interested in investigating the influence of the 
BRV’s variation in the terms of how to improve the robustness of resulting 
reliability.  In Figures 7 and 8, the relative sensitivity factors α  and β  of the LED 
thermal performance max,jT  are presented for the case of PPC BRVs, and the STD 
WS  of the BRV W presents more sensitive than the other BRVs.  Also, the STD WS  
shows the opposite trend to the mean max,jT  of the LED thermal performance in 
Figure 7, and the STD of all BRVs show the positive trend to the variation max,jTS in 
Figure 8.  When consider the influence of BRV’s STD on the statistics of thermal 
performance, the relative sensitivity factors η  of reliability are presented in Figure 9 
for the LED lamp subject to max,jT limited at the thermal limit CT 0max 115= . 
For the case of SI BRVs, Figures 10-11 show the relative sensitivity factors  α  
and β  of the LED thermal performance max,jT ; and Figure 12 show the relative 
sensitivity factors η  of reliability for the LED lamp subject to the limit 
state max,jT < maxT .  Taking the results for COV = 1% of SI BRVs in Figure 12 as the 
example proves that the BRVs T2 and H3 show more sensitive at this reliability 
level than the other BRVs.  To comparing the case study of PPC BRVs in Figures 7-
9, the random variables H and T used in Figures 13-15 were the synthetic function 
obtained from the synthesis of the BRVs Hi (i=1,2,..,4) and Tj (j=1,2,..,5) by Eq 2.  
As the results shown in Figures 13-15 for the case study of the SI BRVs, the random 
variables T and H play prominent role on the sensitivity measures than the case of 
PPC BRVs. 
 
7  Conclusions 
 
Accurate thermal distribution of a commercial high power blue-lighting LED 
lamps are demonstrated by the developed numerical simulation methodology and 
confirmed by experimental measurements.  The flow and thermal coupled field 
analysis of the high power LED lamp is implemented into the numerical thermal 
calculation using the ANSYSTM finite element method. 
To investigate the robustness of reliability-based design for the LED lamps, the 
probabilistic analysis of a LED lamp subjected to the limit of the LED thermal 
performance has been investigated to examine the feasibility of the proposed 
parametric sensitivity analysis.  In the numerical analysis of PPSA, different types of 
the BRVs are performed to study the sensitivity of parametric variation on the 
statistics of thermal performance and the resulting reliability.   As shown, certain 
BRV’s variation may present higher percentage of the variability on the LED 
9 
Parts Material Density (g/cm3) 
Thermal 
Conductivity 
(W/(m0k)) 
Specific 
Heat 
(J/kg0k) 
Lampholder Plastic 1.38 0.16 900 
Lampshade Al Alloy 2.7 150 960 
Ceramic 3.2 1.60 800 LTCC 
Substrate Ag 10.5 237 235 
Heat Sink 
Paste Thermal Gel  4.80  
LED Chips Al-In-P-Ga 5.32 2.10 330 
Coating 
Layer Silicone 
 0.63  
 
Table 1: The material and thermal properties for the constituent parts 
of the LED lamp. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: The configuration and geometry of the high-power LED lamp. 
11 
 
 
Figure 4: Thermal distribution of the LTCC heat dissipation substrate and 
LED chips from simulation. 
 
 
 
Figure 5: the Forthright type of thermal via planning arrangement for the LTCC 
substrate. 
13 
 
Figure 8: Relative sensitivity factors β  of the maximum junction 
temperature max,jT  for the PPC BRVs. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9: Relative sensitivity factors η  of the reliability subject to the 
LED max,jT  limited to 115 
0C thermal limit for PPC BRVs. 
15 
 
Figure 12: Relative sensitivity factors η  of the maximum junction 
temperature max,jT  at the 115 0C thermal limit for all BRVs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-8.E-3
-4.E-3
0.E+0
4.E-3
8.E-3
1% 2% 3%
COV of SI BRVs
Se
ns
iti
vi
ty
  a
W
T
H
 
Figure 13: Relative sensitivity factors α  of the maximum junction 
temperature max,jT  for the SI BRVs. 
