 
 
摘要 
本計劃整合高維度關聯之資訊，針對異質性社群網路上的個體進行中心度評估、角
色分群、以及資訊摘要。直接將既有同質性中心度指標運用在異質性網路將造成關
連性資訊之遺失，於是專門於異質性網路之中心度設計有其必要；有別於過去相關
研究於社群網路上進行社群偵測--找出社群內部緊密連結而社群之間鬆散連結之社
群，我們考慮節點之語意資訊，如個體之行為或所涉及之活動，來進行分群，被分
在同一群中的成員可能散佈於網路的各個角落；網際網路上的異質性社群網路一般
具有百萬以上的節點與連結，其中之複雜的關連性資訊更造成儲存與視覺化呈現分
析的困難，有鑒於此複雜度與資訊量，我們提出以個體為中心的資訊摘要演算法，
根據使用者感興趣之節點，我們考慮三種不同面相設計了資訊摘要演算法來輔助資
訊分析與呈現。成為完成此目標，我們提出一個以 tensor 為基礎的架構來捕捉節點
與連結的關聯性語意資訊，首先我們擷取每個節點的關聯序列(relation sequence)做
為該節點的特徵，接著透過統計取樣之方法來計算特徵值，並以向量表示(signature 
profile)來描述節點的語意。根據該 profiles，我們可以使用數值分群技術來進行以
個體角色為基礎之分群。我們實驗於一個真實電影網路，結果顯示我們的角色分群
確實能產生有效且有其物理意義之呈現。 
Abstract 
The social network is a powerful data structure allowing the depiction of relationship 
information between entities. Recent researchers have proposed many successful methods 
on analyzing homogeneous social networks assuming only a single type of node and 
relation. Nevertheless, real-world complex networks are usually heterogeneous, which 
presumes a network can be composed of different types of nodes and relations. In this 
paper, we propose an unsupervised tensor-based mechanism considering higher-order 
 
 
differences between the node x others.” This major goals and contributions can be 
summarized in the following four points. 
1. A general framework for modeling the semantics of nodes. We suggest integrating 
the high-order relational information with the graph topology to model the semantics 
of nodes. We thus propose a tensor-based relational algebra to capture the 
neighborhood information of a node in an unsupervised manner. By doing this, we can 
then transform a heterogeneous social network into a propositional format and 
facilitate many mining tasks such as the following. Comparing with previous models 
as will be introduced later, our model is more general and does not require inputs from 
domain experts.  
2. Determining the centrality of nodes. To extend the concepts of centrality from the 
homogeneous realm, we propose three measures, namely contribution-based, 
diversity-based, and similarity-based centralities to identify central nodes in a 
heterogeneous social network. Each measure delivers a certain semantic meaning 
within the complex realm. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to extend the 
idea of centrality to heterogeneous social networks. 
3. Clustering nodes based on their roles. Instead of grouping nodes according to the 
principles of community (i.e., nodes densely connected should be put together), we 
propose a method to cluster nodes in a heterogeneous social network based on their 
social positions in the network. Nodes playing similar semantic roles are grouped and 
the system can further provide explanation for validation. 
4. Egocentric information abstraction. For any user-specified ego node, we propose an 
unsupervised method to summarize its ego-based subgraph from different views, 
including common or unique behaviors compared to itself and to others. To our 
knowledge, both the problem and the solution are novel. We perform experiments on 
both artificial and natural dataset to demonstrate the benefit of our system. 
The overall framework is illustrated in Figure 1. Given a heterogeneous network, in 
which different colors represent distinct types of nodes and relations. The four dotted 
rectangular areas correspond to the above four objectives, including modeling, centrality, 
clustering, and abstraction. The solutions to the second and third parts are directly based 
on the signature profile produced through modeling, and their outputs are a ranked list, 
grouped sets. For the last part, we first perform some statistic sampling using the profiles, 
and then provide egocentric abstraction from diverse views. The outputs are abstracted 
graphs from different viewpoints. 
 
 
labeled semantic relationships are actually utilized. The same problem occurs on Zhang 
et al. [2008]. Though they devise a random walk model for ranking relevant objects in a 
Web network with multiple types of entities, the labeled relationships information 
between entities are still neglected. To achieving the tasks of ranking and searching for 
nodes in a relational graph, Minkov and Cohen [2007] consider the typed information and 
take advantage of a supervised learning to improve the performance of random walk 
model. Though the high-order relationship is used for the ranking, the supervised 
approach needs prior knowledge about the network configuration, and thus not easily to 
apply to any heterogeneous network data. 
On the other hand, the social position analysis considers the neighbor structures of 
nodes to estimate the roles they play, which has similar goals as our social role-based 
clustering algorithm. Diverse social positions can be identified using various equivalence 
classes. There are three major kinds of equivalence class, including structural, 
automorphic, and regular equivalence [Wasserman and Faust 1994]. Two nodes are 
considered as structurally equivalent if both have identical links to and from other 
identical actors. The automorphic equivalence defines two actors as equivalent if they 
have the same local structure (i.e., pattern of graph isomorphism). The third and the least 
strict is the regular equivalence, which defines two actors as equivalent if both have 
similar links to members of other regular equivalence groups. 
The existing solutions to clustering nodes based on social roles, such as the 
blockmodeling approach [White et al. 1976] and profile similarity approach [Breiger 
1975], suffer from the common limitation of the lack of ability to handle multiple 
relational data, let alone considering higher order connections. That is, past methods 
simply exploit the statistics of the immediate nodes and links for equivalence detection. 
Besides, Scripps et al. [2007] identify different roles of nodes in a community, including 
ambassadors, big fish, loners, and bridges for homogeneous social networks. To the best 
of our knowledge, our solution to group nodes based on their semantic roles is the first to 
address this problem in the heterogeneous realm. It can be regarded as a generalized 
social role discovery model which simultaneously takes the diverse labeled relations and 
their higher-order combinations into consideration. Lin et al. [2007; 2008] propose a 
model to capture the semantics of nodes in a multi-relational network to identify nodes 
with abnormal behaviors. Our tensor based model can be regarded as a theoretically more 
sound, intuitive, and general model which can naturally adopt higher-order interactions as 
well as temporal information (by adding one more dimension in the tensor).  
For graph summarization and abstraction, we divide this topic into three sub-categories. 
 
 
the original graph. By detecting the overlapping maximal cliques as supernodes, Du 
et al. [2007] build the backbone graph of the supernodes using the minimum 
spanning tree algorithm, where the amount of overlap serves as the distance between 
them. Though the above results simplify the network to some extent, it is unclear 
how their methods can be adopted to incorporate heterogeneous information.  
Methodology: 
A. Modeling 
A heterogeneous network is composed of a topological part and relational part. Each 
node can be characterized using its neighborhood which consists of a set of directly or 
indirectly connected nodes and links.  
Definition 1 (Heterogeneous Social Network). A heterogeneous network H(V, E, L) is a 
directed labeled graph, where V is a finite set of nodes, L is a finite set of labels, and E⊆
V×L×V is a finite set of edges. Given a triple representing an edge, the source, label, and 
target map it onto its start vertex, label, and end vertex, respectively. The function 
types(V) → {{r1,…,rj}, ri∈L, j≥1} maps each vertex onto its set of type labels. 
The goal of our modeling is to transform a multi-relational graph to a vector-based 
representation without prior user knowledge, namely using an unsupervised method.  
As already mentioned, the role of each node is encoded by its relational neighborhood. 
This motivates our idea of defining the k-step relational adjacency matrix to capture the 
direct and indirect relationships between nodes. We start from some basic definitions of 
relational data structures. 
Definition 2 (Relation Sequence). A sequence of labeled relations is called a relation 
sequence (RS). A k-step relation sequence (k>0) is defined as a sequence of k labeled 
relations <rx1,rx2,…,rxk> where each rxk∈L. 
Definition 3 (Relation Sequence Group). The group of relation sequences {RS1,RS2,…} 
is called a relation sequence group (RSG). Note that RSi can be of any length, and 
duplicate elements can exist in an RSG. We can represent the duplicate elements in an 
RSG using a numerical number before each occurrence of distinct RS. For example, 
{3RS1,1RS2,…} means in this group there are three RS1 and one RS2. The counting is 
important since later we will show how it can be treated as the feature values in the 
signature profile. 
 
 
  Definition 9 (One-step Relational Adjacency Matrix). The one-step relational adjacency 
matrix of a given heterogeneous social network H (denoted by ReAM1) is a relation 
sequence matrix that captures the direct adjacency relationship between any two nodes. 
That is, given a social network with n nodes, each element in its one-step adjacency 
matrix is the group of direct labeled relations connecting two corresponding nodes. Note 
that there can be multiple direct connections between two nodes in the network, and a 
node can also connect to itself given there is a self-loop. 
For example, the ReAM1 of Figure 2(a) is shown in Figure 2(b). Note that r-1 here 
represents the inverse edge of typed label r, as the label for the edge is (v1, r-1, v2) such 
that (v2, r, v1)∈E.  
Definition 10 (k-step Relational Adjacency Matrix). A k-step relational adjacency 
matrix of H, denoted by ReAMk, is defined as ReAMk-1×ReAM1, and can be generated 
incrementally from the one-step relational adjacency matrix. 
For example, the ReAM2 is derived through ReAM1×ReAM1. Figure 2(c) shows the 2-
step relational adjacency matrix of 2(a) when multiplying 2(b) by itself. 
The k-step relational adjacency matrix essentially captures all the k-step relational 
paths from one node to its k-step neighbors in the entire heterogeneous social network. 
Each element in the matrix represents the relational paths connecting two nodes. Each 
row in the matrix can be regarded as all the k-step outgoing paths from one node, and 
each column stands for all the k-step incoming paths into a node. 
Here we propose the relational adjacency tensor that integrates the relational 
adjacency matrices to represent the surrounding environment of each node in a 
heterogeneous social network. A tensor is a generalized form of a matrix, a vector, and a 
scalar in the field of multilinear algebra. It is powerful for expressing high-order data. For 
example, the dynamic social network can be described by the time-evolved adjacency 
matrices [Sun et al. 2006]. In this case, a 3rd order tensor, with time being the 3rd mode, is 
used. DataCube such as the customer-product-branch sales data can be represented using 
3rd order tensors as well. 
Our modeling extends the original idea of the tensor from the numerical domain to the 
relational domain in social networks. The order of the proposed relational adjacency 
tensor is three: the first represents the source nodes, the second represents the target 
nodes and the third is the step size k. 
 
 
 
Given the signature profile of each individual vertex as have been described in 
previous section, we can now propose a centrality measure that considers the semantics 
of relations in an HSN. Based on the signature profile modeling, we propose three 
different centrality measures for HSN: contribution-based centrality, diversity-based 
centrality, and similarity-based centrality. 
Results: 
A. Heterogeneous Centralities 
In this experiment we apply our centrality measures to the same KDD movie dataset 
[Hettich and Bay 1999] to identify central actors and compare the results with those 
generated from some homogeneous centrality measures. Note that the homogeneous 
measures are computed by simply regarding all different relations as the same type. That 
is, to perform traditional centralities, all the typed information is removed from the 
heterogeneous network. The step size k for the modeling is set to 2. The results for 
homogeneous and heterogeneous centralities are shown in Table 4 and Table 5 
respectively, where we list the top 10 centered nodes and the corresponding scores based 
on each centrality.  
We observe that nodes with high heterogeneous centrality scores are not necessarily 
the ones with high homogeneous centrality scores, and vice versa. Note that the person 
Hitchcock stands out in most of the cases because this dataset is collected and managed 
by a fan of Hitchcock. Therefore, there is more information about him than others and 
this consequently makes him a central one in most of the centrality analysis. One 
interesting observation is that Hitchcock is not a central node in our similarity-based 
centrality measure. This is because there are very few instances in this network that are 
similar to him. Therefore, he can seldom attract similar entities. 
Here, we emphasize some actors to show the differences between the proposed 
centralities and the homogeneous ones. First, Jean Renoir and Anthony Quinn are both 
regarded as the central node in most of the heterogeneous centrality theories but none of 
the homogeneous ones. This indicates they are involved in many kinds of relationships 
with others, and they do not have sufficient connections with others nor sit in a crucial 
position to connect to other nodes to be detected by the homogeneous centrality methods. 
The real-world information tells us both Renoir and Quinn have several roles as an actor, 
director, writer, and producer. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume they have diverse 
connectivity with others through these multiple identities, and can be considered a 
 
 
simultaneously capture the topological and relational semantics of a heterogeneous 
network. Besides, this model is succinct yet powerful, and it is modularized enough 
to facilitate fast implementation. 
z We define three brand-new centrality measures for heterogeneous social networks, 
including contribution-based, diversity-based and similarity-based centrality. And 
each estimates the nodes’ importance from distinct points of view. The experiments 
on a real-world movie dataset demonstrate that it can truly identify central nodes 
that are otherwise hard to find using existing methods. 
z We present a role-based clustering schema to group nodes based on their higher-
order relational connections in the network. An experiment is conducted to explain 
its effectiveness and difference compared with the conventional community 
detection algorithm. 
z We propose the ego-centric abstraction problem as well as its solutions. Three 
viewpoints, including local frequency, local rarity, and relative frequency, are 
provided to extract different aspects of important information from the network. We 
also propose an incremental method to reconstruct the abstracted graph for advanced 
exploration and visualization. The experiments are conducted on both real-world 
and synthetic dataset. The outcomes not only demonstrate the usability of our 
approach but also show the designed egocentric abstraction can assist human analyst 
in making more accurate, efficient, and confident decisions. 
 
References: 
APPAN, P, SUNDARAM, H., AND TSENG, B. L. 2006. Summarization and Visualization of Communication Patterns in a Large-Scale 
Social Network. In Proceedings of Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (PAKDD’06), 371–379. 
BONACICH, P. 1972. Factoring and Weighting Approach to Status Scores and Clique Identification. Journal of Mathematical Sociology, 
2(2), 113–120. 
BARTHELEMY, M. CHOW, E., AND ELIASSI-RAD, T. 2005 Knowledge Representation Issues in Semantic Graphs for Relationship 
Detection. In Proceedings of AAAI Spring Symposium on AI Technologies for Homeland Security (AAAI-SS’05), 91–98. 
BREIGER, R., BOORMAN, S., AND ARABIE, P. 1975. An Algorithm for Clustering Relational Data with Application to Social Network 
Analysis and Comparison with Multidimensional Scaling. Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 12: 328–383. 
CAI, D., SHAO, Z., HE, X., YAN, X., AND HAN, J. 2005. Mining Hidden Community in Heterogeneous Social Networks. In Proceedings 
of ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Link Discovery: Issues, Approaches and Applications (LinkKDD’05), 58–65. 
CHEN, J., ZAIANE, O. R., AND GOEBEL, R. 2009. Detecting Communities in Social Networks Using Max-Min Modularity. In 
Proceedings of SIAM International Conference on Data Mining (SDM’09), 978–989. 
 
 
SATULURI, V., AND PARTHASARATHY, S. 2009. Scalable Graph Clustering Using Stochastic Flows: Application to Community 
Detection. In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’09), 737–
745. 
SCHRAG, R. 2006. A Performance Evaluation Laboratory for Automated Threat Detection Technologies. In Proceedings of 
Performance Measures of Intelligent System Workshop (PerMIS’06). 
SCRIPPS, J., TAN, P. N., AND ESFAHANIAN, A. H. 2007. Exploration of Link Structure and Community-Based Node Roles in Network 
Analysis. In Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM’07), 649–654. 
SHEN, Z., MA, K. L., AND ELIASSI-RAD, T. 2006. Visual Analysis of Large Heterogeneous Social Networks by Semantic and Structural 
Abstraction. IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 12(6), 1427–1439. 
SHETTY, J., AND ADIBI, J. 2004. Discovering Important Nodes through Graph Entropy: The Case of Enron Email Database. In 
Proceedings of ACM Workshop on Link Discovery (LinkKDD’05), 74–81. 
SINGH, L., BEARD, M., GETOOR, L., AND BLAKE, M. B. 2007. Visual Mining of Multi-Modal Social Networks at Different Abstraction 
Levels. In Proceedings of International Conference on Information Visualization (IV’07), 672–679. 
SUN, J., TAO, D., AND FALOUTSOS, C. 2006. Beyond Streams and Graphs: Dynamic Tensor Analysis. In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD 
International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’06), 374–383. 
SUN, Y., YU, Y., AND HAN, J. 2009. Ranking-Based Clustering of Heterogeneous Information Networks with Star Network Schema, In 
Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’09), 797–806. 
TANG, L., LIU, H., ZHANG, J., AND NAZERI, Z. 2008. Community Evolution in Dynamic Multi-Mode Networks. In Proceedings of ACM 
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’08), 677–685. 
TIAN, Y., HANKINS, R. A., AND PATEL, J. M. 2008. Efficient Aggregation for Graph Summarization. In Proceedings of ACM SIGMOD 
International Conference on Management of Data (SIGMOD’08), 567–580. 
VINCENT, D., AND CECILE, B. 2005. Transitive Reduction for Social Network Analysis and Visualization. In Proceedings of 
IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligence (WI’05), 128–131. 
WASSERMAN, S. AND FAUST, K. 1994. Social Network Analysis: Methods and Applications. Cambridge University Press, UK. 
WATTS, D.  J., AND STROGATZ, S. H. 1998. Collective Dynamics of Small-world Networks. Nature 393, 440–442. 
WHITE, H. C., BOORMAN, S., AND BREIGER, R. 1976. Social Structure from Multiple Networks. I. Blockmodels of Roles and Positions. 
American Journal of Sociology, 81: 730–780. 
WU, A. Y., GARLAND, M., AND HAN, J. 2004. Mining Scale-free Networks Using Geodesic Clustering. In Proceedings of ACM 
SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’04), 719–724.  
XU, X., YURUK, N., FENG, Z., AND SCHWEIGER, T. A. J. 2007. SCAN: A Structural Clustering Algorithm for Networks. In Proceedings 
of ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD’07), 824–833. 
ZHANG, J., TANG, J., LIANG, B., YANG, Z., WANG, S., ZUO, J., AND LI, J. 2008. Recommendation over a Heterogeneous Social Network. 
In Proceedings of International Conference on Web-Age Information Management (WIAM’08), 309–316. 
ZHOU, D., ORSHANSKIY, S. A., ZHA, H., AND GILES, C. L. 2007. Co-Ranking Authors and Documents in a Heterogeneous Network. In 
Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM’07), 739–744. 
 
 
Tutorial: 
7. Shou-De Lin, Hung-Yi Lo, and Cheng-Te Li, Issues of Mining for Heterogeneous 
Social Networks, Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data 
Mining (PAKDD'09), Bangkok, Thailand, 2009. 
Thesis: 
1. Cheng-Te Li. Mining Heterogeneous Social Networks: Centrality, Clustering, and 
Abstraction. Master Thesis, Master Thesis. National Taiwan University, June 2009. 
2. Chien-Lin Tseng. Exploiting Search Techniques to Discover Six Degrees of 
Separation between People from Web, Master Thesis. National Taiwan University, 
June 2009. 
3. Hung-Che Lai. Exploiting and Evaluating MapReduce for Large-Scale Graph 
Mining. Master Thesis, National Taiwan University, July 2010. 
4. Yi-Kuang Ko. A Social Network Evolution Model Based On Visibility and 
Freshness. Master Thesis, National Taiwan University, July 2010. 
Service: 
1. The PI has been invited to be the associated editor of International Journal of Social 
Network Mining (IJSNM). 
2. The PI has been invited as the TPC member of ASONAM09 (2009 International 
Conference on Advanced in Social Network Analysis and Data Mining). 
Talks: 
1. The PI has been invited to give talks about this relevant topic to different institutes, 
including Pacific North National Lab, NCKU-CS, NTU-EE, NTHU-CS, NCTU-CS, 
III.  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 異質社群網路中的的建模，自動學習，以及摘要。
計畫主持人: 林守德
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-002-157- 學門領域: 資料庫系統及資料工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
獲得 ACM KDDCUP 2009年全球第三名 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
