spatial anxiety using the Spatial Anxiety Scale. The 
study found gender predicted operational performance: 
female participants needed more time to perform the 
designated navigation task than male participants； 
CNS interface design predicted CNS operational 
performance； and participants＇ competence to adapt 
to spatial anxiety did not predict CNS operational 
performance. The study＇s results provide 
manufacturers and marketers with reliable information 
regarding at whom they should target their CNS 
products and whether manufacturers should develop 
interfaces that fit small-display CNSs based on 
gender. Study findings also play an important role in 
determining CNS adoption for drivers. 
英文關鍵詞： genders； spatial anxiety； CNS operational 
performance； Rasch model. 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
性別差異於空間焦慮與車載式導航系統可用性之影響─比較 2D 與 3D
介面 
The Effects of Gender Differences on Spatial Anxiety and Usability of 
On-Board Car Navigation Systems - 2D vs. 3D Interface 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2629-E-006-001 
執行期限：100 年 8 月 1 日至 10 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：林珮珺   國立成功大學交通管理學系 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
本計畫結合使用者的性別差異與空間焦慮程度，並考量受測者個別空間能力的
差異與空間焦慮來源的難度，探討是否因為性別差異而有所不同，並研究受測者在
車用導航系統介面的操作上的績效，了解性別差異於介面可用性的影響。由於每個
人適應空間焦慮的能力並非相同，本計畫考量受測者個別能力的差異與空間焦慮來
源的難度，使用 Rasch 模式，有效估算出每個焦慮來源造成受測者之困難感受程度，
以及每位受測者整體適應空間焦慮的能力，有效的連結空間能力與車用導航系統之
可用性。本計畫應用實驗設計，探討性別在操作車用式導航系統上的差異，以客觀
量測調查受測者與導航機之間的互動情形。研究結果顯示，性別確實於操作績效上
產生顯著差異，男性在操作的績效上優於女性。男性與女性於空間能力上也存在顯
著差異，男性有較佳空間能力。過去車用導航系統介面設計的文獻大多為藉由問卷
詢問受訪對象或是藉由模擬設計的機台來針對功能介面的排版設計、功能介面應用
提出設計的準則，本計畫之實驗設備採用市面上所銷售之車用導航機台，更能貼近
現實操作情況，本計畫除了提出功能介面的設計改善外，也納入性別、空間能力、
車用導航系統三種解釋變數進行分析，探討不同的使用族群是否在使用操作車用導
航系統上會有所不同。隨著車用導航系統銷售量的成長，使其逐漸成為駕駛人行車
上重要的車載配備，本計畫課題顯得格外重要。本計畫證實男性與女性確實在操作
車用導航系統介面時產生差異，並根據觀察受試者操作情況以及受試者所建議之回
饋後提出介面改善的建議，減少使用者操作上的不便，提升使用效率。對於駕駛人
而言，過多的設定步驟、點擊介面反應速度過慢以及操作的不便性皆容易讓駕駛人
注意力分散，進而影響行車安全，妥善的介面設計有助於駕駛人操作上順利，減少
行車上的風險。本計畫介面改善之建議可提供相關業者參考，有效提高整體操作效
率，或是提供消費者做為購買決策參考。 
關鍵詞：性別差異、空間焦慮、可用性、能力、Rasch 模式 
 
Abstract 
This project integrated the user interface of automotive on-board navigation systems with 
gender, to analyze whether gender differences, space anxiety or 2D (2 dimensional) vs. 
3D (3 dimensional) display affect the operational performance of an on-board car 
navigation system (CNS). 600 study participants performed a route-locating task on a car 
 2
in-vehicle navigation systems needs to be carried out to examine if it affects driver 
performance and highway safety (Uang and Hwang, 2002; Dalton et al., 2012). 
According to Mick and Fournier (1998), only a minuscule amount of research has 
devoted to investigating consumer behavior after technology has been acquired. 
Complex usage logic or the incomprehensible behavior of a system interface 
diminish self-efficacy and tend to create a sense of user incompetence (Jarvenpaa, Lang 
and Tuunainen, 2005). When interacting with complex menu structures, users may need 
to build up a mental representation of the spatial structure of that menu to orient 
themselves. The structure and design of menus is a main focus of human computer 
interaction research, which primarily concentrates on analyzing users’ menu navigation. 
Users can get lost in a menu system, not know where they are, where to go next, and how 
to get back to previous navigation routes or known parts in the menu. This especially 
applies to menus implemented in small screen devices, presumably because of the 
restricted screen space, where users only see parts of the menu they have to navigate 
through. Since the small screen of a CNS shows only a few functions, users do not 
experience how the menu is structured and how the functions are arranged within the 
menu (Ziefle and Bay, 2006). Jarvenpaa et al. (2005) make the following comment in 
their study:  
 As people are using their newly acquired, technology enabled competency to 
perform new tasks or try to perform tasks better, they soon experience a new sense of 
incompetence. Seemingly simple services turn out to be hard to use and newly gained 
efficiencies tend to be limited in scope and actually cause inefficiency at some higher 
level. Users explore new device functions or try out new application services with the 
expectation of becoming a more competent user, only to be confronted with unexpected 
difficulties that leave them feeling less competent than before. 
This implies that the newly acquired competence of operating the CNS while driving 
can make the user a bad and possibly dangerous driver. It also leaves the user with the 
impression that the CNS itself is incompetent, or worse, it makes the user feel 
incompetent as they struggle to make effective use of it. Poor design or technical 
limitations like small screen size or the tiny input keys of a CNS can render its service 
ineffective and make it appear incompetent.  
In successful wayfinding navigation, people first need to orient themselves in space, 
that is to say, they need to know where their location is and in which direction they are 
heading. They then need to plan a route with an understanding of where the destination is 
located. Finally, they execute the planned route to the destination. People access stored 
knowledge about the surrounding space, or refer to navigational aids such as maps 
(Ishikawa et al., 2007). Map-reading requires spatial ability. High-spatial -ability 
individuals are likely to have good map-reading skills. In contrast, low-spatial-ability 
 4
mind (Schintler, 2005). Traditionally, the assumption has been that users or travelers are 
relatively homogeneous in their needs, values, preferences, and behaviors. Importantly, 
the assumption is becoming increasingly unrealistic and outdated as more women are 
using motorized vehicles. About 85% of female drivers in the U.S. are in charge of car 
maintenance, and more than a third (34%) of automotive do-it-yourself customers are 
female (Babakus and Yavas, 2007). “The Rise of the Sheconomy” shows that the 
demographic composition of consumers is changing and female consumers are now a 
powerful component (Luscombe, 2010). Effective transportation planning and product 
designers need take into account female driving behaviors and guarantee that products 
will meet their needs.  
This study asked participants recruited in Taiwan to use three popular CNS brands: 
Garmin, TomTom, and Mio. Both genders and the three CNSs were manipulated in a 2x3 
factorial design to collect operating time and number of screens of route-planning tasks. 
Participants were then asked to complete a questionnaire that elicited information 
concerning their spatial anxiety. The main research questions addressed in this study were 
whether gender difference or participant competence to adapt to spatial anxiety have an 
impact on the operational performance of CNSs and whether manufacturers should 
develop interfaces that fit small-display CNSs based on gender. Section 2 presents a 
literature review related to users’ competence assessment. Section 3 explains the study 
methods and experimental design, while Section 4 provides an in-depth description of the 
results derived from statistical analysis. The final section summarizes the findings and 
includes a discussion of their implications and recommendations for further research. 
 
三、相關文獻 
The competence of participants in this study referred to the strength of their aptitude to 
adapt to spatial anxiety. We employed a cognitive test to assess participants’ current 
ability in order to estimate their future performance of a number of activities (Cronbach 
and Snow, 1977). Since Spearman proposed classical test theory (CTT) in 1904 (Lubinski, 
2004), it has been the main theory underpinning psychological testing, which is used to 
measure examinees’ attitude toward or ability to use test items (Novick, 1966). CTT 
assumes that every person possesses a true score that reflects the exact value of their 
ability or attitude. However, since a person's true score cannot be observed, only an 
observed score, which is assumed to equal the true score with some errors, is available. 
Moreover, CTT does not provide information regarding the performance of people with 
varying levels of ability to use the same item. Additionally, CTT estimates of item 
difficulty across samples are inconsistent (Magno, 2009). 
Because CTT has item bias (Bond and Fox, 2007), a modern test theory called item 
response theory (IRT) was developed (van der Linden and Hambleton, 1997; Embretson 
 6
4=agree, 5=strongly agree), it is modeled as having four thresholds. Each set of threshold 
estimates is unique to the individual item (i.e. threshold k  for item i ). ik  is the 
location parameter of the boundary curve between the k th and 1k  th response 
categories. The probability of a person choosing any category on any item as a function of 
the agreeability of participant g  ( g ) and the endorsement of item i  at the given 
threshold k  ( ik ) (Wright and Masters, 1982) is as follows:  
exp( )
( )
1 exp( )
g ik
ik g
g ik
P
   
   . 
Rating scales and Likert scales are popular psychological measurement scales that 
depend on human judgment (Nunnally and Bernstein, 1994). Likert scales, which use a 
standard set of response options representing the degree of agreement instead of 
descriptive terms, do not differ fundamentally from rating scales. Both Likert scales and 
rating scales assume that the human observer is capable of quantitative observation and 
assigning numbers or objects to reflect the degree of traits or agreement/disagreement 
with the statements being measured (Hopkins et al., 1990). The merits of rating scales 
include conciseness, time efficiency, scope of application, and ease of use. However, they 
are criticized for being too simplistic. First, the raw scores of a rating scale fail to 
meaningfully measure objects. Meaningful measurement must be linear in order to enable 
the application of arithmetic and linear statistics. However, raw rating scale scores are 
ordinal, nonlinear, and sample dependent. Moreover, the nonlinearity of the raw scores, 
which tends towards central scores and away from extreme scores, indicates that applying 
any linear statistical method will produce systematically distorted results (Wright and 
Masters, 1982). To obtain objective and meaningful measurements, raw scores must be 
transformed into linear measures to enable subsequent analysis and inference. Second, 
without clear and mutually exclusive distinctions, the options provided by the rating 
scales can be viewed as linguistic variables. Without clear definitions of the variables, 
performing arithmetic on linguistic variables exceeds the capability of traditional binary 
crisp logic. The Rasch model was therefore the preferred method of measurement in this 
study. 
 
四、研究方法與結果 
This study adopted an experimental design to investigate whether gender or the interface 
design of CNSs leads to differences in user performance. It then employed the Spatial 
Anxiety Scale (see the Appendix) to assess whether study participants’ competence to 
adapt to spatial anxiety affected their operational performance with regard to using 
different CNS interfaces. A polytomous Rasch model was used to estimate the 
participants’ competence to adapt to spatial anxiety using data obtained from their 
responses to a questionnaire. The purpose of employing the model was to obtain 
 8
To measure the competence of participants to adapt to spatial anxiety, the 
effectiveness of the measurements had to be verified before estimating the parameters. As 
regards the issue of meaningful measurement, psychological measurement must be 
unidimensional, linear, invariant, and objective (Rasch, 1960; Linacre and Wright, 1994). 
A good measurement process allows an ability or latent trait to be estimated individually, 
and does not confuse two or more human traits into one measure. This focus on individual 
constructs or dimensions is known as unidimensionality. The diagnosis process analyzes 
items and participants’ competence based on scoring methods and the response data. The 
Rasch model provides a mathematical description of how fundamental measurements 
should operate with psychological variables. However, empirical data may not conform to 
the strict requirements of fundamental measurement. In Rasch measurement, fit statistics 
enable investigators to detect discrepancies between the Rasch model prescriptions and 
the data collected in practice (Bond and Fox, 2007). The diagnosis procedures are 
followed by an item and person fit analysis.  
In this study, the principles used to distinguish persons and items from unexpected 
responses were based on those employed by Linacre and Wright (1994) and Bond and 
Fox (2007). The acceptable range for the MNSQ  value is between 0.75 and 1.3, and the 
Zstd  value should also be within this range (-2, +2). Person and item fitness values 
outside this range are considered unexpected responses. Rasch analysis programs 
typically report fit statistics as two chi-square ratios: infit and oufit mean square statistics 
(Wright and Masters, 1982), where infit is an information-weighted fit statistic that 
focuses on the overall performance of an item or person, that is to say, the 
information-weighted average of the squared standardized deviation of an observed 
performance from an expected performance; and outfit is an outlier-sensitive fit statistic 
that identifies rare events that have occurred unexpectedly.  
The analysis of data was conducted in two stages. First, eight spatial anxiety items 
were factor analyzed, by factoring the principal components with a Varimax rotation 
procedure to identify the underlying dimensions of attributes. The Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin 
(KMO) index of 0.886 (p-value<0.000) indicated that the data were likely to factor well 
based on correlation and partial correlation, and that the data supported the use of factor 
analysis. Further, it suggested that the data might be grouped into a smaller set of 
underlying factors. All eight spatial anxiety items met the 0.5 cut-off point and were 
included in subsequent analysis. Factor analysis of the eight items resulted in one factor 
grouping, which explained 47.698 percent of the anxiety item variance. The factor 
loading was greater than 0.6, indicating a good correlation between the anxiety items and 
the factor grouping to which they belonged. The relatively high alpha coefficient (α=.842) 
indicated that the factor was internally consistent (Wright, 1996).  
 This study also conducted confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) to test whether the 
assumption that items measured the same unidimensional latent construct was true. 
 10
4. Conclusion 
This research had two related objectives. The first was to evaluate driver 
navigational performance by means of a CNS route guidance display. The second was to 
evaluate the effects of driver differences in spatial anxiety and gender on navigational 
performance. These objectives were related because knowledge about the relationship 
between gender, spatial anxiety, and operational performance can be applied to improve 
the navigational performance of drivers with varying levels of competence.  
 To understand the relationship between gender, spatial anxiety, and operational 
performance, participants self-reported their competence to adapt to spatial anxiety and 
performed a route-locating task on a CNS. An experimental design was adopted to test 
whether interaction existed between gender group and operational performance using 
different CNS interfaces, gender group affected competence to adapt to spatial anxiety, 
CNS interface design affected CNS operational performance, and competence to adapt to 
spatial anxiety predicted CNS operational performance. The study focused on three 
specific outcome variables: (1) the operational number of screens for the designated 
route-planning task; (2) the operational time of the task; and (3) self-reported competence 
to adapt to spatial anxiety (in categories). We used the Rasch model to estimate the 
outcomes and participants’ competence was further grouped to high or low competence. 
Four results were recorded: (1) gender difference affected participants’ CNS operational 
performance and female participants needed more operational time to perform the 
designated navigational task than male participants; (2) gender difference affected 
participants’ competence to adapt to spatial anxiety and female participants reported 
lower competence to adapt to spatial anxiety than male participants; (3) the interface 
design of CNSs affected  CNS operational performance; and (4) participants’ 
competence to adapt to spatial anxiety did not predict the CNS operational performance.  
The first result is consistent with studies that have reported that males and females 
possess differences in visual and spatial capacity and males perform visual-spatial tasks 
significantly faster than females (Maccoby and Jacklin, 1974; Cutmore et al., 2000), and 
males perform better in tests of map reading skills (Henrie, Aron, Nelson and Poole, 
1997).  The first result also demonstrated that males appear to have an advantage in 
computer use oriented towards programming and games (Moffat, Hampson and 
Hatzipantelis; 1998; Simon, 2001). Men have been reported to be more efficient at 
finding destinations (Lawton and Kallai, 2002), and faster than women at locating targets 
with the aid of a map and compass in military orienteering tests (Malinowski, 2001). 
Males have been found to have higher technical confidence than females of the same age 
(Ziefle and Bay, 2006) and more computer experience (Terlecki and Newcombe, 2005). 
A user’s gender and technical experience have been reported to play a significant role in 
determining the operational performance of a system (Rodger and Pendharkar, 2004). 
The second result, namely, gender difference affected participants’ competence to 
adapt to spatial anxiety, is in line with studies that have found that women tend to report a 
 12
development (Ahadi, Rothbart, and Ye, 2006). Thus, the ability to generalize the results 
to other populations using different languages or of different ages may be limited. Since 
smartphones have become exceedingly popular for use as navigation aids and could 
replace the dashboard navigation system, future studies should conduct outdoor 
experiments with the help of the GPS to collect objective operational performance data, 
or investigate whether manufacturers should develop interfaces that fit small-display 
smartphone-based vehicle navigation systems based on gender. 
 
五、成果自評 
 
本研究成果與計畫書相符，由於本專題計畫補助的經費補助，目前完成初步稿
件撰寫，但不便於投稿前完全揭露，本結案報告僅節錄部分內容。 
 
六、參考文獻 
Ahadi, S. A., Rothbart, M. K. & Ye, R. (2006). Children's temperament in the US and 
China: Similarities and differences. European Journal of Personality, 7(5), 359-378. 
Andrich, D. (1978). A rating formulation for ordered response categories. Psychometrika, 
43(4), 561-573. 
Andrich, D. (1979). A model for contingency tables having an ordered response 
classification. Biometrics, 35(2), 403-415. 
Babakus, E. & Yavas, U. (2008). Does customer sex influence the relationship between 
perceived quality and share of wallet? Journal of Business Research, 61(9), 974-981. 
Baker, F. B. & Kim, S. H. (2004). Item response theory: Parameter estimation techniques, 
CRC. 
Bentler, P. M. (1990). Comparative fit indexes in structural models. Psychological 
Bulletin, 107(2), 238-246.  
Bentler, P. M. & Bonett, D. G. (1980). Significance tests and goodness of fit in the 
analysis of covariance structures. Psychological Bulletin, 88(3), 588-606. 
Bond, T. G. & Fox, C. M. (2007). Applying the Rasch Model: Fundamental Measurement 
in the Human Sciences: Lawrence Erlbaum. 
Chittaro L. & De Macro L. (2004). Driver distraction caused by mobile devices: Studying 
and reducing safety risks. In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Mobile 
Technologies and Health, Benefits and Risks. 
CNET Taiwan (2011). Retrieved from 
http://taiwan.cnet.com/digilife2011/0,2003033487,20099938-2,00.htm 
Cronbach, L. J. & Snow, R. E. (1977). Aptitudes and Instructional Methods: A Handbook 
for Research on Interactions: Halsted Press. 
Cutmore, T. R. H., Hine, T. J., Maberly, K. J., Langford, N. M. & Hawgood, G. (2000). 
Cognitive and gender factors influencing navigation in a virtual environment. 
International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 53(2), 223-249. 
Dabbs, J. M., Chang, E. L., Strong, R. A. & Milun, R. (1998). Spatial ability, navigation 
strategy, and geographic knowledge among men and women. Evolution and Human 
Behavior, 19(2), 89-98. 
Daimon, T., & Kawashima, H. (1996). New viewpoints for evaluation of in-vehicle 
information systems: applying methods in cognitive engineering. JSAE Review, 17(2), 
151-157. 
Dalton, P., Agarwal, P., Fraenkel, N., Baichoo, J., & Masry, A. (2012). Driving with 
 14
Lubinski, D. (2004). Introduction to the Special Section on Cognitive Abilities: 100 Years 
After Spearman's (1904) ''General Intelligence, Objectively Determined and 
Measured". Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 86(1), 96-111.  
Luscombe, B. (2010, Nov. 22). Woman power: the rise of the sheconomy. TIME 
Magazine. Retrieved from 
http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,2030913,00.html 
Maccoby, E. E. & Jacklin, C. N. (1976). The Psychology of Sex Differences: Stanford 
University Press. 
Magno, C. (2009). Demonstrating the difference between classical test theory and item 
response theory using derived test data. International Journal of Educational and 
Psychological Assessment, 1(1), 1-11. 
Malinowski, J. C. (2001). Mental rotation and real-world wayfinding. Perceptual and 
Motor Skills, 92(1), 19-30. 
Masters, G. N. (1982). A Rasch model for partial credit scoring. Psychometrika, 47(2), 
149-174. 
Mick, D. G. & Fournier, S. (1998). Paradoxes of technology: Consumer cognizance, 
emotions, and coping strategies. Journal of Consumer Research, 25(2), 123-143. 
Moffat, S. D., Hampson, E. & Hatzipantelis, M. (1998). Navigation in a "virtual" maze: 
Sex differences and correlation with psychometric measures of spatial ability in 
humans. Evolution and Human Behavior, 19(2), 73-87. 
Novick, M. R. (1966). The axioms and principal results of classical test theory. Journal of 
Mathematical Psychology, 3(1), 1-18. 
Nunnally, J. C. & Bernstein, I. H. (1994). Psychometric Theory, McGraw, New York. 
Ostini, R. & Nering, M. L. (2006). Polytomous Item Response Theory Models: Sage 
Publications Inc. 
Rafi, A., Anuar, K., Samad, A., Hayati, M. & Mahadzir, M. (2005). Improving spatial 
ability using a Web-based Virtual Environment (WbVE). Automation in construction, 
14(6), 707-715. 
Rasch, G. (1960). Probabilistic Models for Some Intelligence and Achievement Tests. 
Copenhagen, Denmark Danish Institute for Educational Research. 
Saucier, D. M., Green, S. M., Leason, J., MacFadden, A., Bell, S. & Elias, L. J. (2002). 
Are sex differences in navigation caused by sexually dimorphic strategies or by 
differences in the ability to use the strategies? Behavioral Neuroscience, 116(3), 
403-410. 
Schintler, L. (2005). Society, Behaviour, and Public/Private Transport: Trends and 
Prospects in North America. In Social Dimensions Of Sustainable Transport: 
Transatlantic Perspectives (pp. 29-37). 
Schmitz, S. (1997). Gender-related strategies in environmental development: Effects of 
anxiety on wayfinding in and representation of a three-dimensional maze. Journal of 
Environmental Psychology, 17(3), 215-228. 
Schmitz, S. (1999). Gender differences in acquisition of environmental knowledge related 
to wayfinding behavior, spatial anxiety and self-estimated environmental 
competencies. Sex Roles, 41(1), 71-93. 
Simon, S. J. (2001). The impact of culture and gender on web sites: an empirical study. 
ACM SIGMIS Database, 32(1), 18-37. 
Uang, S. T. & Hwang, S. L. (2002). A study of the presentation of traffic congestion 
information in in-vehicle navigation maps. Journal of the Chinese Institute of 
Industrial Engineers, 19(1), 49-56. 
van der Linden, W. J. & Hambleton, R. K. (1997). Handbook of Modern Item Response 
Theory: Springer Verlag. 
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
101  年 3 月 28 日 
報告人姓名  
林珮珺 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
交通管理系副教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
101 年 3 月 20 日 ～ 101 年 3 月 22 日 
 
西班牙，瓦倫西亞 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)企業與管理國際網路 2012 研討會 
 (英文) International Network of Business and Management 2012 Conference 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)數位媒介推銷易腐性商品引發之消費衝動 
 (英文) Buying Impulse Triggered by Promotions of Perishable Commodities 
and Services Through Digital Media 
 
 
 3
文向我轉述要換車一事，令後學心中非常忐忑不安。接著 bus 東繞西繞後，終於
在某個地點讓我們兩位乘客下車，善心的乘客告訴我要換車搭，等換上另一台
bus 後，司機告訴這位與我一路同行的善心乘客，在哪裡下車後，他用西班牙文
一路問路並陪同後學走到原先預計要去的重要 bus 車站前，並叮囑後學住在那附近
要小心錢包；以及他是羅馬尼亞人等等。雖然這段波折讓後學對西班牙的第一印
象非常差，還是感受到人間處處有溫暖。終於抵達旅館，櫃臺服務人員完全談不
上友善，並告知後學他找不到我第二、三天的訂房記錄，除非我能提供證據，否
則他沒辦法解決問題等等。後學隨即上網將當初訂房的來往電子郵件轉寄櫃臺，
這段小差曲令讓後學對西班牙的印象更加惡劣。三天後退房時，後學向櫃臺索取三
日房價的總數，櫃臺告知他們不知道，才瞭解連鎖旅館訂房系統的問題，以及價
格並不真如研討會主辦單位所述較為便宜划算。 
幾番曲折後將行李放置下榻房間，這時距離離開台灣已經是 28 個小時之後
了，隨即步行出旅館希望先探探路，練習如何走到研討會地點，以確定明日早上
能準時抵達。一開始就完全找不到準備好的地圖上所說的路標與路名，原本方向
感很差的我，當場完全迷失方向，但是遇到越來越多的民眾，為了安全隨著人群
前進，原來當天是西班牙瓦倫西亞的花火節（Las Fallas）。以這個盛大的節日來
迎接新春，可以稱得上是歐洲最瘋狂的春節之一。Fallas 係指用上了油彩的木頭
或紙板雕塑成的巨大人偶模型，在 5 天歡慶結束時，僅留下惟一一具，其餘皆焚
毀。後學隨著人群到市中心時，大街小巷到處都是刑警，看到處處實施封路及管
制，終於瞭解為何今天幾經波折才抵達旅館。但是後學在市中心一直迷路，問路
卻完全沒有遇到可以說英文的人，後學一路盡是接觸到不說英文的西班牙人。西
班牙文 (Español) 作為使用人數占世界第二位、聯合國六種作業語言之一的拉丁
語族語言，使用人數僅次於漢語，多於英文。後學擔心天色漸晚，在語言無法溝
通的狀況下，開始找尋回旅館的路途。 
 大會分三天分別請 12 本國際期刊主編，進行大會報告，期刊主編多報告各
期刊的特色、提供年輕研究人員作為投稿方向的參考建議。本研討會的報名費用
高達 550 歐元，惟得以一次見足多位期刊主編，仍是難得的經驗。後學聽完大會
報告選擇參與一系列 Service Industries Journal 的場次等與個人研究、教學最直接
相關的場次。第二天中午是後學被安排報告場次，一開始早上三位期刊主編
（Service Industries Journal Editor: Gary Akehurst；Small Business Economics Editor: 
David Audretsch；International Journal of Project Management Editor: Rodney 
Turner）的報告未能準時開始，延遲了接下來分組報告的開始時間、接著分組進
行報告時，與會報告的學者時間控制地很差，主編一開始不願意打斷、主編允許
下午場次的人插隊等等因素，導致每篇文章分配的時間由 20 分鐘先減為 15、再
減為 10 分鐘，完全沒有一致性。後學的報告原本被安排在第二篇、接著改成第三
篇、又被更改為第四篇，結束後亦獲得來自法國學者的提問交流。個人報告中獲
得與會學者與主持人正面的評價與肯定，回到台灣後亦接獲特刊主編邀請在三月
30 日至線上系統正式投稿之信函。 
 5
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
大會議程、論文集隨身碟、企業與管理國際網路 2013 研討會將於葡萄牙舉
辦 Call for paper 的訊息。 
 
六、其他 
 
無。 
 7
 
1. 參加會議經過 
本次日本行的目的旨在參加第十一屆貝氏分析國際社群研討會（2012 ISBA）
（如圖一、二、三），ISBA為三個重要國際貝氏大會之一。貝氏統計（Bayesian 
statistics），雖然不是方法論或統計學上的新觀念或新產物，但是應用於社會科學
的量化研究傳統卻有極大的潛力。貝氏推理提供了一個合乎邏輯的定量過程，被
廣泛應用在科學，技術和決策分析。ISBA成立於1992年，以促進貝氏分析的發
展與貝氏分析在科學，產業和政府的有效應用。通過贊助和大會會議，出版了貝
氏分析期刊，以及重要的教學推廣活動，ISBA為那些在貝氏分析及其應用感興
趣的議題提供了一個聚會與發表場合。 
 本學術會議為期五天，後學未能在研討會正式論文徵稿期限前得知此研討會
將在日本舉辦之訊息，緊急投稿後經過論文的審查，僅來得及參與張貼海報的會
議場次。先前參與研討會經驗，讓後學覺得能參與口頭報告與只是張貼海報略有
高下之分，不過經過這次張貼後學想法略有改變，由於安排場地於12：30即開放
張貼海報，正式顧攤位的時間為下午18：00開始，透過一整個下午與晚上時間慢
慢閱讀各與會學者的研究內容、呈現方式，收穫並不遜於在15分鐘內要理解一個
研究的口頭報告，尤其要在那麼短的時間內得克服報告人員在英語口說上的差
異。 
 
圖一      圖二     圖三 
 
2. 會後心得 
自從後學順利將稿件寄出並接獲可參與大會通知後，在會議舉辦前即不斷接
獲來自會員組織提供的各項有關貝氏分析的教學、應用課程的訊息通知，每次訊
息都讓後學愈來愈認同貝氏分析國際社群的嚴謹與對會員的各項服務。研討會在
三天主要的會議中，每天都安排一位貝氏分析領域的重要學者擔任主講員
（Keynote Speaker）進行大會主題報告，讓與會人員可以聆聽到五場為時45分鐘
的大型演講。演講主題分別涵蓋資料同化與序列貝式分析過濾、癌症基因體研究
的應用、以及無母數與條件分佈等。 
非常感謝國科會所提供之補助，使個人得以出席本次學術會議，從中獲得與
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/11/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 性別差異於空間焦慮與車載式導航系統可用性之影響─比較2D與3D介面
計畫主持人: 林珮珺
計畫編號: 100-2629-E-006-001- 學門領域: 性別主流科技計畫
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
