variable function with respect to the 
coordinate variables at a node is expressed as 
the weighted linear sum of the values of 
function and/or its possible derivatives or 
partial derivatives at all nodes. DQ and GDQ 
have also been extended which results in the 
extended differential quadrature (EDQ) [6,7]. 
For the EDQ discretization, the node and 
discrete point can be different, while for the 
DQ and GDQ discretizations the node and    
discrete point are the same. 
The author has proposed the DQEM for 
solving a generic engineering or scientific 
problem having an arbitrary domain 
configuration [3]. Like the finite element 
method (FEM), in this method the analysis 
domain of a problem is first separated into a 
certain number of subdomains or elements.  
Then the DQ or GDQ discretization is carried 
out on an element-basis.  The governing 
differential or partial differential equations 
defined on the elements, the transition 
conditions on inter-element boundaries and 
the boundary conditions on the analysis 
domain boundary are in computable algebraic 
forms after the DQ or GDQ discretization.  
By assembling all discrete fundamental 
equations the overall algebraic system can be 
obtained which is used to solve the problem.  
The interior elements can be regular.  
However, in order to solve the problem having                                      
an arbitrary analysis domain configuration 
elements connected to or near the analysis 
domain boundary might need to be irregular.  
The mapping technique can be used to 
develop irregular elements.  It results in the 
DQEM [3]. The GDQ can also be used to 
develop the irregular elements.  It results in 
the GDQEM [8]. There is also a discrete 
element analysis technique QEM which also 
adopts the DQ. The original QEM was 
proposed to solve truss and frame structures 
[9]. In this method, the truss element is limited 
to a three-node second-order approximation, 
while  a?-grid  arrangement  is used  to 
define  the DQ discretization of the flexural 
deformation. The ? -grid is designed to 
approximately define certain boundary 
conditions at a point close to the boundary, 
and certain inter-element transition conditions 
at a certain point close to the inter-element 
boundary. Consequently, the definition of 
boundary conditions and inter-element 
boundary conditions is inconsistent. When 
developing the plane stress and plate bending 
QEM models, Striz et al adopted a hybrid 
technique to incorporate the DQ discretization 
into a Galerkin finite element formulation and 
define a discrete element analysis procedure 
[10]. The author has also proposed a 
differential quadrature finite difference 
method (DQFDM) [11]. The DQ or GDQ is 
used to derive the finite difference operators. 
For a specified DQFDM grid with a specified 
number of grid points, the order of DQ or 
GDQ  approximation for deriving the finite 
difference operators defined at a discrete point 
in a discrete element or a subdomain can be 
flexible. Different orders of derivatives 
existing in the fundamental equations can 
have different orders of DQ or   GDQ 
approximations. It is different from the 
DQEM and GDQEM in which the orders of  
DQ or GDQ approximations for all orders of   
derivatives defined in an element are unique. 
The approximate analytical functions in a 
DQEM and GDQEM element always span 
over the whole element.  Higher order 
DQFDM analysis models can easily be 
developed. Irregular DQFDM analysis models 
can be developed by using the mapping 
technique or the GDQ.  
The theoretical basis of DQEM, 
GDQEM and DQFDM  is rigorous since all 
fundamental relations are locally satisfied. It 
has been proved that DQEM, GDQEM and 
DQFDM are efficient. The convergence 
property of these three  methods is excellent. 
In solving the free vibration of a beam on an 
elastic  foundation,  results obtained by the 
