類比射頻電路之尺寸自動化合成設計 
Low Dropout Regulator Design Automation 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－027－118－ 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：國立臺北科技大學 電子工程系 邱弘緯 
研究生 : 應尚霖 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本電路為以自動化合成設計[1]的低壓降
線性穩壓器(LDO)[2]-[4]，並在低壓降線性穩
壓器的主體部份做一系列的自動化設計，在自
動化上將 LDO 會 operating condition 及 corner 
condition 均列入自動化條件中，如 ESR 和不
同電流輸出時的穩定度。最後自動化的結果下
線 TSMC035，結果為當操作電壓源在 3.5V 以
上時，輸出電壓為 3V，功率消耗 1.7 mW，此
LDO已由TSMC 0.35μm 2P4M CMOS製程來
實現，晶片面積為 1.462 × 1.149 mm2。 
 
英文摘要 
This circuit presents a Low Dropout 
Regulator(LDO) design automation, and make a 
series design in segment of LDO. In the consider 
that LDO will use in automation, for example, 
the ESR and stability when different output 
current. When the power supply voltage is in 
above 3.5V as operating, output voltage is 3V, 
and power consumption is 1.7 mW . The 
proposed LDO has been fabricated in a 
TSMC 0.35 m 2P4M CMOSµ  technology, and 
the active chip area is 21.462 1.149mm× . 
 
 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
隨著電子工業科技的進步，各種電子設備
均能夠ㄧㄧ被實現，並且朝著微小化設計，然
而電子設備都需要電源供應其所需的能量才
能正常動作，但是電池所提供的電力卻會因為
長時間的使用而慢慢消耗殆盡，更糟的是電池
的電壓相當不穩定，電子裝置需要一個能夠提
供足夠此設備需要的電流且電壓可相當固定
不隨電池變動的電壓。傳統交換式穩壓器
(switching regulator)雖然可有較高的效率，但
是因為增加面積及成本，所以在小型隨身電子
設備如 MP3、錄音筆、無線滑鼠等等上較少拿
來使用，其各優缺點如表 1 所示。 
表 1 線性穩壓器與交換式穩壓器比較。 
 線 性 穩 壓 器 交換式穩壓器
 
 
優   點
成本低 
低雜訊 
暫態時間快 
面積小 
效率較高 
散熱佳 
可升／降壓 
 
 
缺   點
效率較低 
只能降壓 
成本高 
雜訊多 
暫態時間慢 
面積大 
 
 
 
誤差放大器是在比較 Vref 及回授電壓
值之間的變化，以差值來控制功率電晶體以
提供穩定的輸出電壓，LDO 電路變化較多
的地方是在迴路補償部份，其中Rm及Cm
是用來做迴路的頻率補償[10]。 
因為自動化需一氣喝成，所以我們設定
好 LDO 輸出電壓後，利用 PERL 語法來呼
叫 Spectre 及 NeoCircuit[11]來做自動化，先
呼叫 NeoCircuit 對能隙參考電壓電路做自
動化，完成後再把能隙參考電壓電路丟到
LDO 中再繼續自動化，因為 LDO 的 Line 
regulation 與能隙參考電壓電路息息相關，
所以在自動化能隙參考電壓電路時就要先
行考量，這樣的好處是有助於電路自動化時
的演算法收斂性較容易達到，相對速度也會
較快。 
四、預計規格與實測結果 
測試過程：此電路是採用 18PIN 的 IC
封裝，其接腳有 Vdd!、Vdd、Gnd!、Gnd、
Start-up、Vref、Vout。如圖 4 所示，測試時，
可利用 Switch 的方式來選擇是否要啟動
Start-up 電路，若無 Start-up 可能會導致能
隙參考電壓電路無法啟動。其中，表 2 為效
能比較表，圖 5 為當負載變化時所造成的輸
出電壓變化，圖 6 為當輸入電壓變化時所造
成的輸出電壓變化，所量測的結果皆在預定
規格範圍內，圖 7 為 LDO 晶片的實體佈局
圖。 
 
圖 4 LDO 測試電路及外加電路。 
 
表 2 效能比較表 
計畫成果自評部份： 
1. 研究內容與原計畫相符程度 :  
本計劃最後是以 LDO 當作示範應用來完
成本計劃所欲執行的類比電路之尺寸自動化
合成設計，完全符合原計劃內容。 
 
 
2. 達成預期目標情況: 
最後本計劃的不旦完成原本規劃的類比電
路之尺寸自動化合成設計，並且實驗下線完成
並量測到晶片的結果，証明本自動化設計流程
是可以具體實現並應用的。 
 
3. 研究成果之學術或應用價值: 
目前本研究成果已經投稿到 APMC2008
的會議上，未來會再應用到更多電路，待資料
庫建立完整之後，我們會建立一個開放的網路
介面供學術單位利用本計劃所產生的平台來
自動得到最佳化的類比或射頻元件。 
 
4. 是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利: 
目前本研究成果已經投稿到 APMC2008 的會
議上，之後整理新的理論說明後會再投到 SCI
期刊。 
 2) Bandgap：Once the OP completes the optimization, it can be a ready block 
for the bandgap optimization step. A key performance of the bandgap is the 
temperature variation must be minimized, which is easy to obtain by sizing the 
resistances in the bandgap. Besides, the compensation R and C in the OP, 
which form the closed loop in the bandgap, would do sizing in this block to 
reach the high stability. The targets and results of the bandgap are listed in the 
Table1. 
    3) LDO：Although the LDO circuit principle is simple, the power mos in 
the driving stage always requires a dedicated compensation network, which 
often forms a very complicated feedback network [2][3]. The pole-zero 
analysis of the feedback network won’t be easy for the manual design[7]. 
Therefore, the optimization is a quit efficient method for tuning the pole-zero 
for the feedback network by means of the R & C network. However, the start-
up circuit would cost longer optimization time due to the transient analysis. 
    4) PERL Link：A PERL script is writen to finish the whole automation 
flow. Basically, it creates the linkage between each stage, which can’t be done 
by the NeoCircuit. In the beginning, it would fork the NeoCircuit to do the 
optimization to meet the preset target. Once one circuit completes the 
optimization, it would extract the results for the previous stage and put them 
into the next stage. Finally, it could compose each block circuit into one 
complete LDO and fine tune. 
 
III. CONDITIONS OF OPTIMIZATION 
    The output current of the LDO is dynamic with the loading circuit. Any 
different output current would cause different operating conditions. Hence, to 
ensure a safe stability, four different loading conditions of the LDO are all 
optimized and listed in Fig. 1(b). 
Traditionally, it is not simple to evaluate the stability for a closed loop 
circuit. Spectre provides a useful stb_analysis to evaluate the stability for a 
closed loop circuit without breaking the closed loop as shown in the Fig.2. 
However, the stb_analysis doesn’t solve the problem of the differential 
feedback loop. Hence, in order to let stb_analysis work in single ended mode 
under AC analysis, we insert a 1G F of capacitor and a 1G H of inductance at 
negative feedback so that it doesn’t need to break any loop in the bandgap and 
stb_analysis performs the differential function.  
 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
We use TSMC 0.35µm 2P4M process and Cadence NeoCircuit as the 
circuit optimization tool. This automation flow was run on the Linux machine 
with 2.4GHz 4-cores Intel Xeon CPUs. The automation flow for this LDO 
spent about 6 hours to meet the preset targets, where Vout is 3V , line 
regulation is 0.547 %/V , load regulation is  97.85 ppm/mA and settling time 
is 4.34uS. The generated circuit was also implemented by TSMC 0.35µm 
2P4M process. The chip photo is shown in Fig. 3, and the summary table of 
the measurement results is also listed in Table II and compare with previous 
work. Fig. 4 shows the measured load transient response, and the settling time 
is 10µS. The output voltage is locked at 3 V over the range of   from 3.5 V to 
6.5 V as shown in Fig. 5. The maximum output voltage variation is 10 mV, 
where the line regulation is 0.33% for 3 V output. 
