行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
高速雷射二極體驅動電路晶片之設計與研究 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-035-086 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：許恒壽   逢甲大學 助理教授 
 
計畫參與人員：鍾宏杰   碩士生 
 
一、摘要 
 
此一研究報告為設計應用於 DVD 播
放器使用之高速雷射二極體驅動 (Laser 
Diode Driver)電路，而在這報告中將說明其
電路架構與工作原理，以及其效能如何達
到高速的大電流來驅動雷射二極體。在此
將對於組合式開關閘模式 (Combination 
Switch Mode)電路架構，以及 SFM(Source 
Follower Mode)電路架構作一個介紹與比
較 ， 最 後 選 用 SFM 電 路 架 構 作 為
LDD(Laser Diode Driver)的電路架構，使驅
動 LD(Laser Diode)的電流可以高速達到數
百毫安培，並將電路與模擬結果分析呈現
於此報告中，在此設計電路使用 TSMC 
CMOS 5V 0.35-μm 製程。 
 
 2
關鍵詞：DVD Player; LDD 
 
Abstract 
 
In this report, we design the circuit 
application of DVD Player, laser diode driver 
with a large current and high speed. And it 
describes the circuit architecture and how to 
realize the high speed laser diode driver with 
large output current. In addition, we will 
describe the CSM (Combination Switch 
Mode) architecture and SFM (Source 
Follower Mode) architecture of LDD (Laser 
Diode Driver) and compare CSM 
architecture of LDD with SFM architecture. 
Finally, we select SFM architecture to design 
a large current and high speed LDD circuit. 
The LDD is implemented in TSMC CMOS 
5V 0.5-μm technology. 
 
Keywords: DVD Player; LDD 
 
二、計畫的緣由與目的 
 
隨著科技的進步與需求，資料檔案隨
著精緻與複雜，使得資料檔案越趨龐大，
進而使得在傳送與儲存資料上的速度，受
到許多工業界與學術界的關注與發展，而
LDD 廣泛應用於高速傳輸資料的電路，所
以伴隨而來的許多研究與發展，皆為如何
使 LDD 能有相當大且高速的驅動電流，在
光纖寬頻通訊系統中，LDD 為驅動光纖的
電路之一，另外 LDD 也應用於 DVD Player
讀寫頭區塊上，在此將介紹應用於 DVD 
Player讀寫頭區塊(Pick-Up Head)上的LDD
電路[1][2][3]。 
 
LVDS 
Receiver 
  Skew- 
Controller 
PLL 
Mark/Space
WSG LDD 
LD 
Length 
Detector 
圖 1  DVD Player 讀寫頭區塊電路 
 
DVD Player 讀寫頭電路如圖 1 所示， 其主
要電路區塊分別為 :LVDS(Low Voltage 
Differential Signaling)的 Receiver、Skew 
Controller、Mark/Space Length Detector、
PLL(Phase Locked Loop) 、 WSG(Write 
Strategy Generator) 、 LDD(Laser Diode 
Driver)，LVDS 所接受的資料經過處理後，
由控制電路產生讀取、寫入、覆寫等訊號，
作為 LDD 的輸入訊號來產生 LD 所需的驅
動電流，即在此研究設計中所探討的 LDD
電路為 LD 的電流來源，而在此僅討論單
一個通道所產生的輸出波形，對於多個通
  
VDD 5V 
ISS 398μA 
Vb1 2.4V 
Vb2 2.6V 
OPA Gain   66dB 
Phase Margin   56° 
表格 1 OPA 規格 
 
圖 7 為 運 算 放 大 器 的 頻 率 響 應 圖
(log-log-scale)。 
 CSM 與 SFM 架構在工作原理上大致
相同，主要元件分別為: 
(a)電流鏡: PMOS-M3M4
(b)電流源: NMOS-M2
(c)輸入開關閘: NMOS-M1、PMOS-M5M6 
 
而為了要輸出大電流，所以電流鏡的尺寸
比例通常會相當大，這使得輸出路經端的
電晶體(M4)的大尺寸，相對帶來許多設計
上的問題，其寄生效應一直是大家所關注
的問題，與設計上的難處，驅動電流將會
受到電晶體M4所形成的寄生電容影響，電
流驅動的速度將受到影響與限制，且尺寸
變大，電晶體通道上的電場也相對受影
響，這將使得Hot-carrier效應變大，輸出電
流波形也將受到影響。在上面已提到公式
(1)(2)分別為電流Iref與Iout，若假設我們在此
忽 略 而 不 考 慮 通 道 長 度 調 變 效 應
(Channel-length modulation effect )，由公式
(1)和(2)可以得到(6)和(7)。 
 
( 23
32
p ox
ref GS tp
M
C W
I V
L
μ= ⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
 4
)V−        (6) 
( 24
42
p ox
out GS tp
M
C W
I V
L
μ= ⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ )V−        (7) 
 
公式(6)和(7)可以推得公式(8)。 
 
4
3
ou t
M
ref
M
I
W
L I
W
L
=
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ •⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
               (8) 
 
所以由公式(8)可以得知，PMOS-M3M4的電
晶體尺寸大小比例，以及Iref的大小，將會
影響Iout的電流大小，因此若輸出電流要達
到很大的電流，我們必須將Iref電流變大，
而這將使得M3的通道尺寸增加，反而降低
了PMOS-M3M4的通道尺寸比例，這時也勢
必將M4的通道尺寸設計的更大，所以在設
計的時候，我們可以由此預期M4 的通道尺
寸將會非常大，而M4的通道尺寸若非常
大，將使得電晶體的寄生效應變大，Cgs4，
Cgd4，與M4成正比，由此可以了解主要的
寄生電容將由M4所提供，而驅動電流的速
度將受到這些寄生電容的影響，在設計
LDD電路很大的問題之一 ，這也是上面一
開始時提到的問題，也是我們應該在設計
實要解決的問題。 
 就驅動電流速度上的考量，我們可以
了解主要原因為電晶體M4，所帶來相對的
寄生電容，由於設計上電晶體M4尺寸必須
相當大，所以設計的出發點將不先考慮讓
M4的尺寸縮小，而多加了一顆電晶體，來
阻絕電晶體M4所帶來的巨大寄生電容，而
此結構為在電流鏡M3M4的中間，多增加一
顆電晶體，這使得從Iref路徑所看到的寄生
電容，將少掉M4所帶來的寄生電容，也因
此明顯的縮小許多，這將在速度上提升許
多效能，而此改善速度的結構，及為SFM
架構。 
CSM 與 SFM 兩個架構的模擬比較結
果為下: 在此使用 H-spice 來模擬，而雷射
二極體以其等效電路圖來模擬，圖 8 為雷
射二極體等效電路圖。CSM 與 SFM 兩個
架構的模擬，皆為使驅動電流達到 50mA
的情況下來比較，在此將觀察其輸出電流: 
(a)充電時間    (rising time) 
(b)放電時間    (falling time) 
(c)Overshoot    (< 10%) 
(d)Undershoot   (< 10%) 
 
 
 
A. CSM 架構模擬結果 
 
圖 9 為 CSM 架構模擬輸出波形圖，在
此橫軸為時間，縱軸為電流，圖 10、圖 11、
圖 12、圖 13 皆為對圖 9 局部放大，以方便
觀察，圖 10 為對雷射二極體充電之電流上
升圖，此充電上升時間大約為 8ns，圖 11
 6
到不同的電流，使得可以控制LDD的輸出
電流速度。 
 另外值得注意的的部份，在其輸出電
流的波形完整度，圖 14、圖 22、圖 23 分
別為M12所提供三種不同的電流，而產生的
輸出電流圖，圖 14 為M12提供電流大小為
2.13mA時所產生的輸出電流波形圖，圖 22
為M12提供電流大小為 1.28mA時所產生的
輸出電流波形圖，而圖 23 為M12提供電流
大小為 429μA 時所產生的輸出電流波形
圖，由這三張圖可以觀察比較出，M12所提
供的電流越小時，其輸出電流速度較慢，
且輸出電流波形的完整度較差，由其以
Overshoot現象較明顯，且我們也可以觀察
到電流Iref隨著M12所提供的電流變化，M12
所提供的電流下降，則電流Iref向上增加，
所以在設計時，不只在考慮速度時來調整
M12所提供的電流，為了能有較大的電流
Iref，而使得電流鏡M3M4的尺寸比例縮小，
卻能產生大電流，進而降低面積，設計時
將在此作一個考量與取捨， 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
[1] Koichiro Nishimura, Shinrou Inui, 
Masaaki Kurebayashi, Toshimitsu Kaku, and 
Akihiro Asada ”High-Speed DVD-Multi 
Drive System”, IEEE Transaction on  
Consumer Electronics, vol. 50, NO. 1, pp. 
198-203, February 2004. 
[2] Udo Karthaus, Stefan Schabel “Write 
Pulse Generator for 16x DVD Recording 
With Symmetric CMOS Inverter Ring 
Oscillator”IEEE Journal of Solid-State 
Circuits, Vol. 40, NO. 11, pp. 2286- 2295 
November 2005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[3] 姚懿珍 “雷射二極體驅動電路” 國立
中央大學，電機研究所碩士論文，中華民
國九十年六月。 
[4] Johannes Sturm, Martin Leifhelm, Harald 
Schatzmayr, Stefan Groib, and Horst 
Zimmermann, “Optical Receiver IC for 
CD/DVD/Blue-Laser Application” IEEE 
Journal of Solid-State Circuits, vol. 40,  
NO. 7, pp. 1406-1413, July 2005. 
[5] Mehrdad Nourani, Amir R. 
Attarha ”Detecting Signal-Overshoots for 
Reliability Analysis in High-Speed 
System-on-Chips” IEEE Transactions on 
Reliability, vol. 51, NO. 4, pp. 494-504, 
December 2002. 
[6] Woogeun Rhee, Bang-Sup Song, Akbar 
Ali “A 1.1-GHz CMOS Fractional-N 
Frequency Synthesizer with a 3-b 
Third-Order ΔΣ Modulator” IEEE Journal of 
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 35, NO. 10, pp. 
1453-1460, October 2000. 
[7] Hoi Lee, Philip K. T. Mok, Ka Nang 
Leung “Design of Low-Power Analog 
Drivers Based on Slew-Rate Enhancement 
Circuits for CMOS Low-Dropout 
Regulators” IEEE Transactions on Circuits 
and Systems-II Express Briefs, vol. 52, NO. 
9, pp. 563-537 September 2005. 
[8] Yun Yang, Jia Guo, Yasuaki Inoue and 
Hong Yu, Graduate School of Information, 
Production and Systems, Wasada University 
“A Large Current and High Speed Laser 
Diode Driver Using Switch Position 
Modification” IEEE Communications 
Circuits and Systems Proceedings, vol. 4, pp. 
2319-2323, June 2006.  
[9] Behzad Razavi, Design of Analog CMOS 
Integrated Circuits, 1st edition, New York, 
NY: McGraw-Hill, 2001. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 9 CSM 架構模擬輸出波形 
 
 
圖 10 CSM 架構輸出電流上升 
 
 
圖 11 CSM 架構輸出電流下降 
 
 
圖 12 CSM 架構-Overshoot 
 
 
圖 13 CSM 架構-Undershoot 
 
 
圖 14 為 SFM 架構模擬輸出波形圖 
 
圖 15 SFM 架構輸出電流上升 
 
 
圖 16 SFM 架構輸出電流下降 
 
 
圖 17 SFM 架構-Overshoot 
 
 
圖 18 SFM 架構-Undershoot 
 
 
圖 20 M12提供電流為 1.28mA 
 
 
圖 21 M12提供電流為 429μA 
 
 8
 10
附件：本計劃補助已發表論文 
32 Hsu and Hsu
technology due to the excessive power consumption required to
drive the impedance-controlled electrical interconnects, leading to
an increase in costs related to packaging and thermal management.
Moving off-chip data rate to the range of Gb/s-per-pin is beneficial
since the traditional way to realize high data rates was achieved by
massive parallelism with increased complexity and cost for the IC
package and the printed circuit board (PCB) [1, 2]. Besides, reduction
of power is always desired for systems to relieve the extra costs related
to packaging incurred by thermal management.
As the flexibility and performance of chips continue to increase,
the output driver circuits will play an important role on off-chip
data transmission. Fig. 1 shows the block diagram of off-chip
interface circuitry. For the case in PUH interface applications,
different transmission speed of data/clock is required under different
recording/reading speed while accessing Laser-Diode Driver (LDD)
circuitry inside PUH through flat-ribbon cables. Therefore, output
driver needs to transmit different rate of data based on user’s
commands. Conventional Tri-state buffer can serve for off-chip
transmission speed below 100MHz with the benefits of zero static
power consumption. However, for higher speed data transmission,
Tri-state buffer suffers severely from performance degradations due
to LC-bouncing and reflections due to impedance mismatch. Such
problems can be solved using Low-Voltage-Differential-Signaling
(LVDS) technology which was developed in order to provide a low-
power and low-voltage alternative [3, 4] to other high-speed I/O
Din Driver
Output
Stage
Enable
Pin Pin
Enable
Cable or PCB trace
Dout
ChipOff - Data onTransmissi
ceiverRe
AChip_ BChip_
Tx Rx
Figure 1. Block diagram of off-chip data transmission interface
circuit.
34 Hsu and Hsu
To be specific, the results obtained from EM simulators serve as
the corresponding boundary conditions which are equivalent to the
accurate terminations of the circuit level simulators. Numerical
example is presented to demonstrate the utilization of the proposed
system level integration approach.
2. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
Figure 2 illustrates the basic implementation flow chart of the proposed
system level integration algorithm. With the completion of the
landscaping for the footprints of bonding pads, the estimated overall
chip size and tentative bonding plan can be determined. Note that
relative dimensions in the ball park are good enough at this stage
since the electric design of the circuit has not been performed yet.
Based on the preliminary dimensions of the footprints, selection of
the package type (e.g., QFN, QFP, etc.) is readily completed with
detailed information such as dimensions and material properties of the
lead frames specified.
In order to have an accurate model for the package over the
desired operation bandwidth (which should usually be very broad due
to high data rate of transmission), the detailed 3D physical model of
the package including the lead frames, the die attachment soldering and
the molding compound will be constructed or imported into the full-
wave electromagnetic simulator for analysis. The simulation tool used
for presented analysis is CST Microwave Studio [20] which is mainly
based on the Finite Integration in Time Domain (FIT) algorithm.
The reason for adopting time domain simulator lies in the fact that
for certain application scenarios, truly transient clocked signal which
can not be possibly represented by analytical expression is used as
excitation. In such cases, steady state frequency domain analysis
through Fourier Transform techniques may not be adequate since the
accuracy of the results depends strongly on the sampling rate especially
for high clock rate signals. Additionally, time domain solvers show
overwhelmingly efficiency over frequency domain solvers for analysis
of complex structures at high frequencies since there are no inversions
of matrices involved.
As the spectral content of the signal becomes higher with
more complicated structures involved for simulation, more complex
electromagnetic models are required to assess the very complicated
couplings in between the structures at high frequencies. As a
consequence, obtaining an accurate equivalent circuit over the band of
operation is quite challenging since substantial increase in simulation
effort is expected. To efficiently derive an accurate model that
36 Hsu and Hsu
accounts for all the possible couplings at high frequencies, Model
Order Reduction (MOR) technique is adopted in our approach.
In order to make sure the correctness of the converged results
representing the original responses of the package, issues related to the
inclusion of eigenvalues and passivity are carefully taken care of [21].
SPICE compatible equivalent circuit based on such MOR technique
which ensures passivity is exported directly once the desired level of
convergence is reached. The extracted package model will in turn serve
as the proper load terminations for circuit level design, analysis and
optimization. Design iterations may be necessary with the fixed load
termination in circuit simulator to guarantee the compliance of the
electric specifications before final chip layout and bonding plan can be
finalized.
3. DESIGN EXAMPLE
3.1. Electromagnetic Level Simulation
The proposed algorithm was applied to the design of novel switching-
mode output driver circuitry for high-speed data transmission. While
standard 3.3V 0.35µm CMOS technology was targeted for real
implementation, the design goal was to achieve an off-chip data
transmission rate of up to 640 Mbits per second. In this specific
design example, the full-functionality chip was in tended to be housed
in QFN package with 13 pins on each side using standard IC packaging
process. Fig. 3(a) shows the imported 3D complete structure for
electromagnetic simulation. Note that the bond wires were also
included for simulation as shown in the enlarged plot in Fig. 3(b).
With the imported 3D model, the excitation source was assigned
in one of the pairs and differential mode excitation mode was adopted.
Though only one of the pairs were used as the excitation, the whole
lead frame and the printed circuit board with a pair of transmission
lines were included for simulation to accommodate for all the possible
couplings to other areas through the down-set and common ground of
the differential traces. For better signal integrity consideration, the
100Ω termination between the differential traces was also included in
the simulation. As is mentioned in the previous section, the choice
of time domain has the key advantage of using truly time-domain
transient signals as the excitation source to accurately characterize
the electromagnetic response of the associated package. Moreover, to
characterize the package completely, the frequency range of interest
should cover at least twice the highest frequency component involved in
the time signal. The reason being that in a lot of applications, mixed-
mode operation is desired. Under such circumstances, complicated
38 Hsu and Hsu
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Figure 4. Two-dimensional surface current distribution at 10GHz
plotted with various signal rise time: (a) 20 psec, (b) 15 psec, (c)
10 psec, and (d) 5 psec.
by the spotty locations with large values of current densities existing
all over the area of interest was observed at the extreme case when
the rise time was 5 psec. Such unwanted coupling characterized by
very large localized currents certainly causes fluctuations in the system
impedance which in turn deteriorates the overall signal quality of the
system especially under high data rate of transmission. Same surface
current density distributions were plotted against different frequency
with the same excitation signal of 20 psec rise time in Fig. 5. It
is observed, as expected, that the above mentioned effect certainly
becomes pronounced at higher frequencies.
Since our design target was set as an off-chip transmission rate of
640Mbits per second, a broadband signal (in the sense of the frequency
component composed in the time signal) up to 10GHz was used
as the excitation source. Model Order Reduction (MOR) technique
with a total number of thirty poles was adopted for equivalent circuit
extraction over such a wide band of operation. With passivity enforced
for all the frequency values, the resultant equivalent circuit was
exported as SPICE compatible differential netlist for the purpose of
40 Hsu and Hsu
Frequency (GHz)
d
B
d
B
Figure 6. Comparison of the S-parameters between the extracted
ones and those obtained from electromagnetic simulation.
3.2. Circuit Level Simulation
In terms of circuit level simulation, novel circuitry including LVDS-
mode driver, Tri-state-mode driver, and switching control circuitry
were proposed. With the accurate load impedance obtained from the
EM level simulation, the proposed output circuitry features extremely
high level of flexibility in a sense that the users have the freedom of
switching over different modes based on the required transmission rate
required by the system.
3.2.1. Circuit Design of LVDS Driver with switching Control
Figure 7 illustrates the schematic of proposed LVDS driver with
switching control. With a 100 ohm termination resistor at receiver
end, the output voltage of the LVDS type should satisfy the definition
made by LVDS standard as follows:
250mV ≤ |Vod| ≤ 450mV
1.125V ≤ Vcm ≤ 1.375V,
(1)
where Vod and Vcm represent output differential voltage and output
common mode voltage, respectively. As shown in Fig. 7, when LVDS
driver is activated, “lvds en” should be set to “high”. The output
42 Hsu and Hsu
Pre-driver with
S lew-Rate-C ontrol
Pre-driver with
S lew-Rate-C ontrol
DoutDin Tri_en
Tri_en
Tri_en
S RC TL
VDD
VSS
PG
NG
MP
MN
Figure 8. Circuit implementation of Tri-state output driver.
(frequency below 100MHz), Tri-State buffer can be activated by setting
“Tri en” to be “high”. As can be seen from Fig. 8, there is no DC path
from Vdd to Vss when Tri-state buffer is activated regardless of the
polarity of Din. The pre-driver can be designed with output slew rate
control (SRCTL) functionality to reduce the off-chip signal ringing.
3.2.3. Circuit Design of Novel Switching-Mode Driver
To implement the novel switching mode output driver, we have to
merge LVDS-mode driver and Tri-State driver together with proper
switching control. Fig. 9 illustrates the block diagram of LVDS-mode
driver and Tri-State driver, respectively. Fig. 10 shows the schematic
of proposed novel switching mode output driver according off chip
transmission speed. Under lower data rate of transmission (below
100MHz), we set “lvds en” to be low; Tri-state buffer is thus activated
whereas LVDS-mode driver is kept in high-Z state. For high speed data
transmission application with “lvds en” setting to be “high”, LVDS
mode driver is thus activated whereas Tri-state buffer kept in high-
Z state. With the help of this novel switching mode output driver,
users can transmit lower speed data/clock with zero static power
consumption and high speed data/clock (640Mb/s with cable length
as long as 12 cm) with good signal integrity.
44 Hsu and Hsu
electromagnetic simulation has been included in the simulation set up.
Besides, the cable/PCB trace has been modeled with a 12 cm long
transmission line and included in the simulation. Complete simulation
of off-chip data transmission was carried out according to the topology
shown in Fig. 10. The differential outputs are probed at the far-end of
cable/PCB trace.
Figure 11 demonstrates the simulation results of proposed output
driver with “lvds en” switching to high state when the input NRZ data
rate is up to 640Mb/s. The amplitude of the output differential signal
|VOP − VON | is about 350mV and the rising/falling time (tr/tf ) of
the differential signal is 0.5 ns. The power consumption (Pd) of output
driver when “lvds en” setting to be high is 26.4mW.
500m
400m
300m
200m
100m
0
-100m
-200m
-300m
-400m
-500m
450 455 460
V
olt
(V
)
T ime (ns)
V
olt
(V
)
Figure 11. Simulation results of proposed output driver when
switching to lvds en = “high” and transmitted data rate up to
640Mb/s.
To investigate the proposed circuit performance versus the
variation on temperature, power supply voltage, and process, corner
case analysis has been performed. Fig. 12 demonstrates the corner
case simulation results of the differential output signal |VOP −VON | of
proposed output driver with “lvds en” setting to high. Three cases,
the best, typical, and worse were analyzed with corresponding bias
settings and operating temperatures according to the definitions of
LVDS standard. It can be seen that the timing variation of the
differential output signal across reference level (V = 0) is about 200 ps.
46 Hsu and Hsu
of operation, the output signal (Vop/Von) swing is as high as 3.3V
with zero DC power consumption. Complete package model obtained
from EM level simulator and cable/PCB trace transmission line model
are also included in this simulation. Fig. 14 illustrates the output
voltage Vop, Von and common mode voltage Vcm of the proposed
novel switching-mode output driver when “lvds en” setting to be high.
With the CMFB (common-mode feedback) circuitry shown in Fig. 7,
the output common-mode voltage Vcm has been shown to be set
at about 1.25V. The HSPICE simulation results and performance of
proposed novel output driver were summarized in Table 1.
Table 1. Summary of the simulated results of the proposed circuitry.
Proposed Driver with
lvds en=“high”
Proposed Driver with
lvds en=“low”
Mode of operation
LVDS Buffer
Activated
Tri State Buffer
Activated
Signal Swing 320mV∼ 380mV 3.3V
Output common-mode 1.25V none
DC power Consumption 26mW 0
Suitable data rate/freq
of transmission
Up to 640Mb/s Below 100MHz
1.44
1.12
1.04
1.20
1.28
1.36
446 450 454 458
V
olt
(V
)
T ime (ns)
V
olt
(V
)
Figure 14. Simulation results of output common-mode voltage (center
dotted line) when output driver switching to lvds en = “high”.
48 Hsu and Hsu
slots and applications,” Progress In Electromagnetics Research,
PIER 69, 1–20, 2007.
7. Zheng, H.-X., X.-Q. Sheng, and E. K.-N. Yung, “Computation
of scattering from conducting bodies coated with chiral materials
using conformal FDTD,” Journal of Electromagnetic Waves and
Applications, Vol. 18, No. 11, 1761–1774, 2004.
8. Chen, X., D. Liang, and K. Huang, “Microwave imaging 3-
D buried objects using parallel genetic algorithm combined
with FDTD technique,” Journal of Electromagnetic Waves and
Applications, Vol. 20, No. 13, 1471–1484, 2006.
9. Yang, Z. Q., T. Yang, Y. Liu, and S. H. Han, “MIM
capacitor modeling by support vector regression,” Journal of
Electromagnetic Waves and Applications, Vol. 22, No. 1, 61–67,
2008.
10. Xu, Y. H., Y.-C. Guo, R.-M. Xu, B. Yan, L. Xia, and Y. Q. Wu,
“Modeling of SIC MESFETs by using support vector regression,”
Journal of Electromagnetic Waves and Applications, Vol. 21,
No. 11, 1489–1498, 2008.
11. Mohammadi, F. A. and M. C. E. Yagoub, “Electromagnetic model
for microwave components of integrated circuits,” Progress In
Electromagnetics Research B, Vol. 1, 81–94, 2008.
12. Hu, X.-J. and D.-B. Ge, “Time domain analysis of active trans-
mission line using FDTD technique,” Progress In Electromagnetics
Research, PIER 79, 305–319, 2008.
13. Xiao, S., B.-Z. Wang, P. Du, and Z. Shao, “An enhanced FDTD
model for complex lumped circuits,” Progress In Electromagnetics
Research, PIER 76, 485–495, 2007.
14. Kung, F. and H.-T. Chuah, “A finite-difference time-domain
(FDTD) software for simulation of printed circuit board (PCB)
assembly,” Progress In Electromagnetics Research, PIER 50, 299–
335, 2005.
15. Young, J. L. and R. Adams, “Excitation and detection of
waves in the FDTD analysis of N-port networks,” Progress In
Electromagnetics Research, PIER 53, 249–269, 2005.
16. Chen, Z.-H. and Q. Chu, “FDTD modeling of arbitrary linear
lumped networks using piecewise linear recursive convolution
technique,” Progress In Electromagnetics Research, PIER 73, 327–
341, 2007.
17. Bernardi, P., R. Cicchetti, G. Pelosi, A. Reatti, S. Selleri,
and M. Tatini, “An equivalent circuit for EMI prediction in
printed circuit boards featuring a straight-to-bent microstrip line
