2nanotechnology.
The major contribution of this study is establishing an application model appropriate for local
enterprises. This model, combined with the enterprise’s “Customer Satisfaction” strategy and QFD 
techniques, provides process management in promotion through built-in IPPD and organizational
culture changes. This study uses the Semiconductor Industry as a case study to prove the model’s 
applicability and suitability.
Keywords: QFD, Nanotechnology, Process Management, Voice of Customer, Customer Satisfaction
1. Introduction
Nanotechnology is a fundamental “enabling technology”that gives us the capacity to see,
manipulate, and manufacture on the smallest of scales. It is widely accepted that nanotechnology is
developing into a major driver for commercial success in the 21st century and, in some applications, it
is expected to become a “disruptive technology,” promising massive change. This technology has
excellent prospects for exploitation across the medical, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, engineering,
manufacturing, telecommunications, and information technology (IT) markets. Its impact in these areas
will be broad and far reaching, not only providing cost and performance improvements to current
products and processes but, in the longer term, yielding new approaches to health and societal problems.
Nanotechnology involves the precise manipulation and control of atoms and molecules, the building
blocks of all matter, to create novel materials with properties controlled at the nano-scale, billionths of
a meter. (Horton and Khan, 2006)
Quality Function Deployment (QFD) is an adaptation of some of the tools used in Total Quality
Management (TQM). It is a method that encourages product development team members to
communicate more effectively with each other using a complex set of data. It helps teams formulate
business problems and possible solutions (Cohen, 1995). QFD was invented in the late 1960s in Japan
to support the product design process. It originated at Mitsubishi’s Kobe shipyard. At first it was used 
for the design of large ships. As it evolved it become clear that it could also be used to support service
development. QFD has been extended to apply to any planning process where a team wants to
systematically prioritize their possible solutions to given set of objectives (Urban and Hauser, 1993).
Since the introduction of QFD in the USA in the beginning of the 1980s, it has spread widely among
industries in the Western world. Among the early users of QFD are companies like Ford Moter, Procter
and Gamble, Campbel’s soup, IBM, Xerox, Hewlet-Packard, Kodak, and 3M Corporation (Griffin and
Hauser, 1993; Cohen, 1995; Benner et al., 2003).
A wide variety of management and engineering techniques are currently used as mechanisms to
improve organizations. This includes techniques such as business process reengineering, process
improvement, activity-based management and change management etc. However, the common
element that can be found in most of these techniques is the business process (Hammer, 1996). It has
been suggested that the definition of a business process has been constrained by objectives that seek to
determine the most efficient way to carry out work, whether in a production or office environment. Not
surprisingly perhaps the view held of a process, by those aiming to exact such improvements, is similar
to that of a machine, especially as many of the operations subjected to such study might eventually be
automated. Much of the literature produced by the business process management and reengineering
(BPM/R) community would suggest that implementing process orientated structures will help
organizations become more responsive to an increasingly changing environment. It is essential then
that those utilizing such techniques understand adequately the nature of business processes (Lindsay et
al., 2003). Process management is the improvement of a process through a defined set of methods. This
means both improving the performance of individual processes and improving the overall performance
of a system or network of processes (Thomson, 1995).
In the past, the relative independence of many company departments led to poor communication
among those departments. Many traditionally organized companies have thus faced difficulties in
facing modern pressures to become more ‘customer-oriented’. Their communication problems led to a 
narrow, function-focused approach to operational improvement. To overcome these problems, modern
companies are increasingly being organized in terms of processes (rather than functions). One of the
biggest advantages of this modern focus on processes is that “processes” enable organizations to focus 
on their customers (Copacino, 1997; Stahl and Grigsby, 1997). This is because a process approach
enables cross-functional and cross-company teams to contribute combinations of products and services
that add value (Schorr, 1998; Weele, 2000).
QFD has been used by many companies because of the following three basic reasons:
(1) To save design and development time;
4quality (quality which is not asked for but is assumed to be there) and of attractive quality (quality
which is not asked for because the customer does not even imagine that it can exist). This was
explained by the Kano model (Govers, 1996; King, 1989). The wants and needs provided by the
customer must be translated into measurable scale units accessible for market research. Because the
customer’s statements are not always clear and comprehensible, they must be interpreted and explained. 
For that the QFD-approach provides a rare opportunity to work on cross-functional teams, employee
involvement and participating management by discussingthe meaning and importance of the “WHAT” 
s. These strategic issues already indicate that starting a QFD project needs all support and commitment
of top management. Principally, the product planning phase is meant to define the strategy for the new
product to be developed in the next 1-5 years (depending on the kind of product). QFD systematically
takes the voice of the customer down to the operations level. The entire development process can be
depicted in four charts (see Fig. 2) although in actual use as many levels of charts as desirable may be
applied (King, 1989). The operational activities involved in applying QFD to the product identified, is
carried out both as group activity and individually. Team members must bring in their specialized
knowledge and the needed information. Team meetings are especially intended to discuss the outcomes
of market research and technical benchmarking and to mutually argue the (mostly subjective)
statements concerning targets and priorities.
Generally, in the literature, the benefits of QFD are enlarged. A lot of attention is paid to different
points of view related to more or less “technical” conditions like how to scale customer requirements 
and how to calculate priorities. Here we will concentrate on a more managerial and organizational
background and on the “pitfals” concerning the implementation and use of this method. To discuss 
possible improvements of development processes by QFD we need to understand the philosophy and
concepts that are the roots of this method.
A QFD approach must be supported by a certain “Quality Culture”. A company that stil struggles
with quality performance at the aimed level must stress basic quality techniques first. Many times there
is an incredible amount of rework in introducing a new product because the steps to prevent problems
are not taken. Quality does need to be first (Levi, 1998). We need to understand what business
functions are required to accomplish a new product introduction and how to accomplish them assuring
that we have the processes under control (Chalmers, 1992). To implement QFD successfully a
company has to be able to control the production processes at a level which corresponds with that of
obtaining an ISO certificate (process orientation). The culture has to move in the direction of Total
Quality Management based on the concepts of, for example, the model of the Malcolm Baldridge
award or the European Quality award. Roughly saying, these models are direct consequences of the
Figure 1: The“House of Quality” showing the “rooms” of the various steps in theproduct
planning phase of the QFD process
(7)Relationship matrix
(8 )Techn. Targets
(9)Techn Benchmarking
(10) Correlation matrix
(6)Design Parameters
(5)Competitive Benchmarking
(1)Which product
(2)Which customer
(3)Customer Requlrem.
(What’s)
(4)Importance
Rating
Requirements
●
HOW’s
HOW
MUCH
--SCORES
WHAT’ ●
CUSTOM
REQUIRM
PRODUCT
CONCEPT
PROUCT
CONCEPT
PRODUCT
DESIGN
PRODUCT
DESIGN
PRODUCT
CONCEPT
PROCESS
DESIGN
MANU FACT.
OPERATIONS
PHASE Ⅰ
PHASE Ⅱ
PHASE Ⅲ
PHASE Ⅳ
Figure 2: Cascade of QFD charts from concept to product planning to manufacturing [7].
6attach to each requirement. There are several possible sources of customers requirements: market
research data, sales data, customer complaints, retailers, focus groups, toll-free lines, opinion surveys,
in-depth interview, etc.(Govers, 1996; Charteris, 1993).
After their identification, the customers’ requirements are complied and structured by the QFD 
team (and/or by the customer), relative importance weightings are attached to each customer
requirement by the QFD team based on quantitative market research—the Customer Importance
Rating. This helps establish priorities in the product development process and to allocate the
necessary resources (Charteris, 1993; Hauser and Clausing, 1988) .
The establishment of the voice of the Customer is the most critical step in a QFD project
(Hofmeister, 1991). On one hand, it requires obtaining and expressing what customers require of a
product or service—and not what the company thinks they require—and how important this is for
them. On the other hand, since these prioritized customer requirements re guiding the whole
development process, a misinterpretation at this stage may seriously compromise the outcome of the
process (Cohen, 1995).
Once the QFD team has established the customer requirements, the next step is to understand
where the company and its competitors stand in terms of satisfying these requirements in the
marketplace, by filling the Strategic Planning Room (Fig. 4) (Hause and Clausing, 1988). Based on
qualitative and quantitative market research, the customer’s perception of how the company’s product 
or concept satisfies his or her requirements in comparison to other products—Customer Competitive
Assessment—is rate and graphically depicted. A Customer Complaints column may also be added. An
improvement Ratio is calculated based on the company’s current and planned level (Goals) of 
customer satisfaction. Finally, the Strategic Planning Room provides a link between the QFD project
and the company’s strategic vision by identifying market opportunities –the Sales Points-, and
priorities for R&D based on the Weight of each Customer Requirement for the company .
At this stage, the QFD team should have a clear picture of what the customer requires from the
product or concept and how this can be related to the company’s strategy. The team has now to decide 
how these requirements can be incorporated into the final product so that the customer is satisfied.
This is represented in the HOQ by the Voice of the Company Room (Charteris, 1993). Here, the
end-product’s technical characteristics directly related to the customer’s requirements are listed, that 
is, the “design requirements’, “quality functions” or “HOWS”. They must be measurable parameters 
that wil be used to evaluate objectively the product’s quality, since their outputs are going to be
controlled and compared with target values to ensure customer requirements are being met (King,
1989).Often these parameters are correlated in a product, therefore in the Technical Correlation Roof
the QFD team must specify their degree of interdependence. This step helps to determine the effects
of changing one product characteristic on the other attributes, enabling the team to identify and react
to synergistic (positive interdependence) or trade-off (negative interdependence) situations. Trade-off
situations often point out R&D needs and should always be solved in the way that most favors the
customer.
The QFD team must now fill-in the core of the HOQ—the Relationship Room—where the
relationships between each customer requirement (Voice of the Consumer) and the product
characteristics (Voice of the Company), as well as their intensity, are depicted. The team seeks
consensus on how much each product characteristic affects each customer requirement based on their
own expertise, customer surveys or data from statistical studies and controlled experiments. This
widely recognized complex task is another critical stage in the HQO building process. On one hand, it
shows whether or not the company is adequately addressing the customer requirement from a
technical point of view. On the other hand, it is an important project checkpoint. Blank rows in the
Relationship Room indicate customer requirements that are not being addressed by any of the
product’s technical characteristics. Therefore, a product characteristic may be missing or may have to
be modified in the final product. An empty column indicates either a waste of resources, by showing
that there is a product characteristic not satisfying any of the listed customer requirements, or missing
customer requirements. Figure 5 shows a simplified account of the Voice of the Customer, the Voice
of the Company, the Relationship Room and the Technical Correlation Roof in the case study of
semiconductor industry .
The last task in building the HOQ is filling the Technical Priorities Room (Fig. 6). It starts with a
Technical Competitive Assessment of the end-product’s characteristics (Voice of the Company) in 
currently marketed products. In this way, the QFD team can view the competitors’ and their own
technical performance level regarding product characteristics directly affecting customer
requirements. “In-house” product testing usualy provides the data necessary for this assessment, 
which again should be expressed in measurable terms. For each product characteristic, the
comparison between the company’s and the competitors’ technical performance level is depicted in a 
8characteristics that are to be deployed through the remainder of the R&D and market introduction
activities. End-product characteristics showing a Technical Importance Rating above a pre-determined
threshold (indicating a strong relative importance in achieving the collective consumer requirements)
are selected for further deployment. The same happens to end-product characteristics related with
customer requirements, which are strong Sales Points or have poor Competitive performance.
End-product characteristics having a high level of Organizational or Technical Difficulty may also be
selected (Evans and Lindsay, 1996; Costa et al., 2001).
The selected end-product characteristics are now going to be carried from the overall product
level to the component level through the building of the Deployment Matrix, Product Design Matrix
or Parts Deployment Matrix. This matrix shows where and to what extent the relationships between
the component and product characteristics are critical. Its structure is similar to that of the HOQ: the
rows are the selected end-product characteristics that have now become design requirements. The
columns list the component characteristics directly affecting these design requirements. The
relationships between both types of characteristics are depicted at the matrix’s core. Critical 
component characteristics are selected based on the strength of these relationships and are deployed
further into the production planning and the control system.
The critical component characteristics become the rows of a third relationship matrix—the
Process Plan and Control Chart or Process Planning Matrix, in which the columns are related
processing operations. If a critical component characteristic is strongly affected by a process
operation, that characteristic becomes a control point (CP) in the quality control plan. Moreover, if a
process operation parameter must be monitored to achieve a specified component characteristic level,
this parameter becomes a checkpoint in the process control plan. In the last matrix---Operating
Instruction Chart or Production Planning Matrix—the control points and checkpoints originating from
the preceding matrix are related to operating instructions carried out during production (Gustafsson,
1993). Figure 7 shows a guide for the Quality Function Deployment process in the semiconductor
industry.
Through the Quality Function Deployment activities, the QFD team establishes the operational
means for controlling key product and component characteristics (control points: CP) and monitoring
process parameters (check points) during product development and market introduction. This
information can now be integrated into the company’s quality assurance system, bringing customer 
guidance and quality assurance upstream to product development. Figure 8 shows a case study: QFD
integrating process management implementation in a semiconductor assembly house (from voice of
customer deployed to back-end production processes).
Figure 4: The Voice of the Customer, the Voice of the Company, the Technical Correlation Roof
and the Relationship Room in a case study regarding the Produce development of a
semiconductor MOSFET (simplified)
CORRELATIONS
⊙ Strong +
● Positive
■ Negative
★ Strong–
REALTIONSHIPS
◎ 9 Strong
○ 3 Medium
□ 1Weak
Trench FETR Power
MOSFET
4FEATURES
ESD Protected 4
Battery Protection
Circuitry
3
APPLICATIONS
1-Cell Li-ion Battery
Pack
3
Drain-
Source
Voltage
Gate-Source
Voltage
Continuous
Drain
Current
Pulsed
Drain
Current
Maximum
Power
Dissipationa
○ ◎ ○
◎ □ ○
◎ □ □
◎ ○
★
■
●
●
●
◎
10
Process Name
*nanotechnology related, up to technical Specification requirements
Control points (CP)
Fig.8. case study: QFD integrating process management implementation in semiconductor assembly house
Check Points
↓ QA Receiving Inspection
↓ *Wafer Inspection
↓ Wafer Mount
↓ *Wafer Saw/Clean
↓ QA Visual I Gate
↓ *Die Attach
↓ Epoxy oven cure
↓ *AAre Bond
↓ Visual ⅡGate
↓ *Molding
↓ Post Mold Cure
↓ Laser Marking
↓ Dejunk
↓ Electrical Deflash
↓ Solder Plating
↓ Singulation
↓ QA Visual Gate
↓ Electrical Test
↓ Tape & Reel
↓ OQA
↓ PACK/POST PACK
INSECTIONI
↓ PRE-SHIP
INSPECTION
1.Visual; 2.Measure
Optic
Optic
Resistivity
Optic
1.Die shear; 2.Optic; 3.Visual
Optic
1.Visual; 2.Measure
Optic
1.Visual; 2. Measure
measure
Optic
Optic
Optic
1.Visual; 2.Measure; 3.Analysis
Optic
1.Visual; 2.Measure; 3.Test
Test summary; reading
Test result
1.Test; 2.Optic
Optic
Optic
CP1
CP2+CP1
CP3+CP1+…+CP2
CP4+CP1+…+CP3
CP5+CP1+…+CP4
CP6+CP1+…+CP5
CP7+CP1+…CP6
CP8+CP1+…+CP7
CP9+CP1+…+CP8…
CP10+CP1+…+CP9
CP11+CP1+…+CP10
CP12+CP1+…+CP11
CP13+CP1+…+CP12
CP14+CP1+…+CP13
CP15+CP1+…+CP14
CP16+CP1+…+CP15
CP17+CP1+…+CP16
CP18+CP1+…+CP17
CP19+CP1+…+CP18
CP20+CP1+…+CP19
CP21+CP1+…+CP20
CP22 +CP1+…+CP21
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
QFD
FEATURES
．Trench FET R Power MOSFET:
x.x V Rated
‧ESD Protected: xxxx V
APPLICATIONS
．Battery Protection Circuitry
．1-Cell Li-l on Battery Pack
- LiB/Lip
- Lithium-Polymer
QFD
ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATING
Parameter
Drain-Source Voltage
Gate-Source Voltage
Continuous Drain Current
Pulsed Drain Current (VGS=x V)
Continuous Diode Current
Maximum Power Dissipation
Operating Junction Storage Temperature Range
Product: Bi-Directional N-Channel xx-v (D-S) MOSFET
QFDWafer Product (Foundry)
QFD
12
5. Cohen, L., 1995, “Quality Function Deployment: How to Make QFD Work for You,” 
Engineering Process Improvement Series, Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.
6. Costa, A.I.A., Dekker, M., and Jongen, W.M.F., 2001, “ Quality function deployment in the food
industry: a review,”  Trends in Food Science and Technology, 11(9/10), 306-314.
7. Evans, J.R. and Lindsay, W.M., 1996, “ The Management and Control of Quality,”  3rd ed.,
West Publishing Company, St.Paul, MN. 155-165, 248-259.
8. Govers, C.P.M., 1996, “ What and how about quality function deployment,”  International 
Journal of Production Economics, 46/47, 575-585.
9. Govers, C.P.M., 2001, “QFD not just a tool but a way of quality management,” International 
Journal of Production Economics,69, 151-159.
10. Griffin, A., and Hauser, J.R.,1993, “ The Voice of the Customer,” In Marketing Science,12, 1-27.
11. Hammer, M.,1996, “ Beyond Reengineering,” Harper Colines Business.
12. Hauser, J.R., and Clausing, D.,1988, “ The House of Quality,” In Harvard Business Review, 66, 
63-73.
13. Hofmeister, K.R.,1991, “ Quality Function Deployment: market success through customer-driven
products,” in food Product Development :from Concept to the Marketplace,(Graf, E., Saguy, 
I.S.,eds),Van Nostrand and Reinhold, New York, NY,189-210.
14. Horton, M., and Khan, A., 2006, “Medical nanotechnology in the UK: a perspective from the
London Centre for Nanotechnology, ” Nanomedicine: Nanotechnology, Biology, & Medicine,
2(1), 42-48.
15. King, B., 1989, “ Beter Designs in Half the Time,” Implementing Quality Function in America. 
3rd Edition, Goal/QCP, Methuen, MA.
16. Kogure, M. and Akao, Y., 1983, “ Quality Function Deployment and CWQC in Japan,”In
Quality Progress, 16,25-29.
17. Krishnaswamy, G. M., and  Elshennawy, A. K., 1992, “ Concurrence engineering deployment: 
An enhanced customer product,”  Computer and Industrial Engineering, 23(1–4), 503–506.
18. Levi, N.S., 1998, “ Managing High Technology and Innovation,”  Prentice Hal, Englewood 
Cliffs.
19. Lindsay, A., Downs, D., and Lunn, K., 2003, “Business processes—attempts to find a
definition,” Information and Software Technology, 45(15),1015-1019.
20. Maynard, A. D.,2006, “Nano-technology: assessing the risks,”Nano Today , 1(2) , 22-33.
21. Myint, S., 2003, “A Framework of An Inteligent Quality Function Deployment (IQFD) for 
Discrete Assembly Environment,” Computers and Industrial Engineering, 45(2), 269-283.
22. Singh, N., 2002,“Integrated product and process design: a multi-objective modeling framework,”
Robotics and Computer Integrated Manufacturing , 18, 157-168
23. Thomson, V., 1995, “Process management in manufacturing,”Control Engineering Practice,
3(4),537-547.
24. Urban, G. L., and Hauser, J. R., 1993, “Design and Marketing of new Products,” 2nd ed. 
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.
25. Vancso, G. J., 2006, “European Polymer Journalannounces new section on macromolecular
nanotechnology,” European Polymer Journal., 42(1) ,1-2.
26. Zultner, R.E., 1995, “Blitz QFD: Beter, Faster and Cheaper Forms of QFD,” American 
Programmer, 8(10), 24–36.
表 Y04
報告內容應包括下列各項：
一、參加會議經過
1. 5 月 18日 1945 ,搭 CI 198 接 2250 CI 4, 舊金山
(SFO) SAN FRANCISCO INTL 2235 DL 1478 於 05月 19日抵達亞特蘭大
(ATL) ATLANTA HARTSFIELD 0603 05月 19日亞特蘭大
(ATL) ATLANTA HARTSFIELD 0820 DL 6443 出發 5 月 19 日 0829 到達抵
達 NASHVILLE METRO 納什維爾(BNA) 國際機場，租車、在住入旅館 Super 8
Motel-Lebanon Nashville Area, 914 Murfreesboro Rd, LEBANON TN US 37090 即到會場在
Renaissance Hotel Nashville, Nashville Convention Center 報到並準備 5月 21日
論文發表，
論文 1：Session: Six Sigma for Quality Improvement, Paper: Combining Technology
of QFD and Process Management in Phase-in Nanotechnology –An Emprical
Study of Semiconductor Industry, (編號: 356) 在 Room: 213, 1345-1500, May,
21,07 (Monday)
論文 2：Session: New logistics issues, Paper: The Establishment of
Cost-effectiveness, Objective Oriented LSP Performance Measurement (編
號: 456) 在 Room: 214, 1315-1500, May, 22,07 (Tuesday)
