 
2
[20, 21]. So, if a long-distance poled beam actuator suspends 
on the relatively larger range between the pillar and outer 
area, whereas a smaller microfluidic chamber centered on the 
opposite side of the actuated region, the displacement will be 
more enhanced and uniform. As a result, the more pressure 
will be generated due to the higher volume change ratio. 
Since the volume change ratio in the chamber affects the 
fluid pressure, the analytical and numerical solutions for the 
diaphragm deflection are obtained to calculate the volume 
displacement, which are also compared with experiment. 
Furthermore, a micropump or microdroplet ejector was 
fabricated and tested to confirm the practicability of this 
actuating design. 
 
(a) Bend by d31  mode: Bend by PZT d31 lateral deformation
(c) Push by d31 mode: Push by PZT d31 lateral deformation
P Ez
P Ez
DiaphragmBulge
NP NPPP
EzEz
h
(d) Push by d15 mode: Push by PZT d15 shear deformation (            )P Ez
(b) Push by d33 mode: Push by PZT d33 longitudinal deformation
P Ez
 
Fig. 1. Various actuating modes of the PZT actuator. 
 
2. Design and fabrication 
As shown in Fig. 2(a), the novel actuating design consists of 
a silicon-made vibration plate and a plate-shaped shear mode 
PZT actuator. It is applied to a diffuser-type micropump [22] 
that can further functions as a microdroplet ejector with the 
introduction of a nozzle plate. Fig. 2(b) displays the flow 
circulation of the system. The actuator in dimensions of 
3×8×0.2 mm was used to vibrate the diaphragm of the 
silicon plate. It was made from PZT powder (Sunnytec, 
Taiwan) by powder metallurgy. According to the 
polarization, a total of five zones were created in the 
actuator by the lateral poling technique [23]. The five 
regions are the middle and two outer non-poled zones (NP) 
and two in-between poled zones (P). The two poled zones 
with dimensions of 3×1.35 mm were separated by the 3×0.3 
mm middle non-poled zone. Both had symmetrical and 
opposite polarizations parallel to the plane of the plate. The 
silicon plate was shaped by micromachining a 250 
µm-thickness silicon wafer with an ICP-DRIE etcher 
(ams100, ALCATEL). The microstructures include a feature 
of the bulge on the diaphragm (named bulge-diaphragm) and 
a flow chamber with the inlet and outlet diffuser channels on 
the opposite side. The thickness of the bulge and the 
diaphragm are respectively 150 µm and 50 µm, and the 
depth of both the flow chamber and channel are 50 µm. The 
top-view dimensions of the diaphragm and the bulge are 
respectively 5×3 and 3×1 mm. The actuator was glued on 
the bulge side of the silicon and suspended between the 
bulge and the outer area. It is driven by a voltage 
perpendicular to the poling direction and the induced shear 
deformation pushes the bulge to deflect the diaphragm. With 
a cover plate, the assembly is basically a micropump. If the 
cover plate has nozzles (nozzle plate), it further functions as 
a microdroplet ejector. In this report, the nozzle plate is 
constructed with only one nozzle by nickel electroforming. 
The components are assembled by glue in a CCD aligning 
system. The glue is applied on the attached surface by screen 
printing. The nozzle plate is assembled to the vibration plate 
by epoxy adhesive (CIBA-GEIGY, AV 119) cured in the 
oven with 110℃ for 2 hours. Then, the PZT actuator is 
attached to the other side by another epoxy adhesive (3M, 
DP-460) cured at lower temperature of 60℃  to avoid 
depolarization. 
 
3. Analysis 
3.1 Analytical model 
Fig. 3 illustrates the free-body diagram, and the region inside 
the dash line is the analysis domain. The piezoelectric plate and 
bulge-diaphragm are treated as two free bodies. They are 
separated at the bonding interface with introducing equal 
action or reaction force to their respective bonding surface. 
The shear mode PZT plate can be regarded as a short wide 
beam with two clamped edges and the reaction force is acting 
on the bonded region. Its net deflection under static equilibrium 
state is obtained by the superposition of the piezoelectric shear 
effect and the reaction force, and analytical expression is 
formulated. The bulge-diaphragm is modeled as a plate with 
two opposite clamped edges and two opposite simply supported 
edges. Neglecting the bulge mass and the chamber fluid 
pressure, the plate has only the action force acting on the bulge 
area. The analytical formulas of the deflection and resulting 
volume displacement are derived.  
 
 
Fig. 2. The novel actuating design applied to a microdroplet 
ejector (a) and operating illustration of the microejector (b). 
 
Fig. 3. Free-body diagram for analytical analysis (a) and 
corresponding ANSYS numerical analysis (b). 
 
 
4
Fig. 5 shows the measurement configuration. The silicon 
plate was bonded to the glass (Pyrex 7740) by anodic 
bonding and glued with the actuator which was driven by an 
AC voltage. The test sample was attached to a transition 
stage on an optical table. The samples could be precisely 
positioned in three directions by adjusting three micrometers 
in the transition stage.  The laser signal was guided to each 
grid point in a defined area, and its reflected signal was 
detected with a photo detector in the laser-scanning head. 
The collected signals were then transmitted to the computer 
through the vibrometer controller to calculate the upward or 
downward deflection of each grid point, and the volume 
displacement can be calculated by integrating the deflection 
distribution on the defined area.  
The droplet ejection of the microejector was observed by a 
visualization system, as shown in Fig. 6. A light emitting 
diode (LED) was placed under the microejector to illuminate 
the ejected droplets. Two signals, one for driving the 
microejector (signal A) and the other (signal B) for the LED, 
were synchronized with adjustable time delay. Droplets were 
ejected from the microejector by a driven waveform with 55 
µs duty cycle at 12 kHz. The droplet images were recorded 
by the flash light from the LED at specified delay time. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Displacement measurement configuration. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Droplet visualization system 
 
5. Results and discussion 
By the free-body model, the analytical expressions of the 
diaphragm deflection and volume displacement are obtained, 
and the ANSYS numerical solution is obtained as well. Fig. 
7 displays the distribution of diaphragm deflection by 
MATLAB code according the obtained analytical formula. 
The actuated central deflection and volume displacement by 
analytical solution are close to those in the numerical and 
experimental results, as listed in Table 2.  
In the free-body analysis, the relation between central 
deflection and action/reaction force is taken to evaluate the 
piezoelectric actuating characteristic and diaphragm 
deformation capability. Two kinds of curves are shown in 
Fig. 8. The piezoelectric characteristic curve presents the 
relation that the PZT central deflection (Wpc) decreases with 
the increase of reaction force (i.e. anti-deflection force from 
the bulge) under a given input voltage. The maximum 
actuating force and central deflection are respectively the 
intercepts of the transverse and vertical axis by this curve, 
which are expected to be 0.295 N and 284 nm in the 
analytical analysis and 0.264 N and 283 nm by the ANSYS 
numerical analysis with 80 V input voltage. The other kind 
of curve named diaphragm curve, presents the diaphragm 
central deflection (Wdc) that increases with the action force. 
The resulting functions of those curves are obtained and 
shown in the figure. Two kinds of relations are joined to 
solve the actuated central deflection and action/reaction 
force as coupling the two free-bodies, which corresponds to 
the intersection of the two curves. With 80 V input voltage, 
the solution shows an actuated central deflection of 240 nm 
in the analytical analysis, which is near to the value of 234 
nm in the numerical analysis, as shown in table 2. Also, the 
resulting volume displacements of both analyses are 
respectively shown as 1.67×10-12 and 1.57×10-12 m3, which 
agree acceptably. In the whole-model numerical analysis, 
the diaphragm deformation obtained by static 80 V input is 
displayed in Fig. 9(a1) or (a2), and the corresponding central 
deflection and resulting volume displacement are also shown 
in table 2. The results are compared with the measured ones 
actuated by 160 Vpp at 1 kHz far below the 12 kHz 
resonance, as Fig. 9(b1) or (b2) shown, which presents good 
agreement. Therefore, the correctness of both the analytical 
exact solution and numerical results are manifested since the 
discrepancy between analyzed and experimental results is 
small and acceptable.  
Figs. 10(a) to (d) are the SEM images of the components. 
Figs. 10(a) and (b) display both sides of the silicon-made 
vibration plate and Fig. 10(c) is the close-up of the diffuser 
channel. Fig. 10(d) shows the nozzle profile in the 
nickel-made nozzle plate. The paraboloid profile was formed 
by the over-electroforming technique, or the over-deposition 
onto the columnar photoresist mould. As the thickness of 
deposited nickel is larger than the height of columnar mould, 
the lateral growth as well as the height growth appears. The 
orifice diameter decreases with the over-deposition extent. It 
can be controlled to an expected value and a size of 45 µm 
was produced in this case. The authors’ study has detailed 
the useful data about the over-electroforming technique [9]. 
The two components and one actuator were stacked and 
glued with alignment marks, and the glass tubes are attached 
to the inlet and outlet to complete a prototype of the 
microejector shown as the photo in Fig. 11. Fig. 12 exhibits 
a droplet captured by the visualization system confirming 
the practicability of this actuating design. The droplet was 
obtained at specified delay time of LED exposure in the 
visualization system. It is driven by the waveform cycle 
(signal A in Fig. 6) that consists of five segments. The initial 
segment has voltage rise to 80 V in 10µs, which creates a 
chamber expansion. The maximum voltage is held for 15µs 
in the next segment to propagate and stabilize fluid wave. 
The follow segment that the voltage is driven to -80V in 5µs 
induces fluid compression and propagation to the orifice 
causing a droplet to be ejected. Before the voltage is 
returned to ground, it is also held at -80V for 15µs to 
propagate the fluid compression wave. Returning voltage to 
ground cancels the compression wave pulling back the fluid 
wetting the border of the orifice, as Fig. 12(b) shown. 
 
 
