 2
solutions with dual reciprocity for thin plates 
on Winkler foundations with arbitrary 
loadings” - Journal of Mechanics 
3.C.C. Tsai, “The method of fundamental 
solutions with dual reciprocity for thin plates 
on Pasternak foundations with arbitrary 
loadings”, MFS 2007, Cyprus 
 
 
關鍵詞：基本解方法、對偶法、柯西荷夫板、
溫克爾基礎、雙參數基礎、無網格 
 
Abstract 
The meshless numerical methods are very 
popular in recent years. The method of 
fundamental solution (MFS) is one of the 
meshless numerical methods, which can be 
used to solve the homogeneous solutions of 
partial differential equations. In addition, the 
MFS is free from numerical integrations as 
well as singularities. 
The MFS has already been applied to many 
partial differential equations successfully. 
These equations include the Poisson equation, 
diffusion equation, Stokes equations, 
Cauchy-Navier equations, biharmonic equation, 
Helmholtz equation, etc. Theoretically 
speaking, the MFS is able to solve any partial 
differential equations once the fundamental 
solutions of the equations exist. In the last few 
decades, the applications of BIE for Kirchhoff 
plates (thin plates), with and without Winkler 
or two-parameter foundations are intensively 
researched. In this project, we consider the 
MFS for these plate problems. In addition, we 
plan to derive the analytical particular solutions 
of concentrated, linear loadings and the DRM 
for arbitrarily distributed loadings.  
Overall, the purpose of this project is to derive 
the MFS-DRM formulations for the following 
plate problems: Kirchhoff plate, Kirchhoff 
plate on Winkler foundation, Kirchhoff plate 
on two-parameter foundation. Therefore, an 
innovative meshless numerical method will be 
developed for problems of plate bending. 
Computational implementations will be carried 
out and numerical results will be discussed and 
compared with the analytical solutions as well 
as the results in literatures.  
After all, the results of the present project 
including the developments and 
implementations of the MFS-DRM for the 
precribed three problems. They are submitted 
to the following two SCI journals and a 
international conferenceon in Cyprus under the 
support of present grant.  
 
1.C.C. Tsai, “A meshless numerical method for 
Kirchhoff plates under arbitrary loadings”- 
Journal of Computers, Materials & Continua 
2.C.C. Tsai, “The method of fundamental 
solutions with dual reciprocity for thin plates 
on Winkler foundations with arbitrary 
loadings” - Journal of Mechanics 
3.C.C. Tsai, “The method of fundamental 
solutions with dual reciprocity for thin plates 
on Pasternak foundations with arbitrary 
loadings”, MFS 2007, Cyprus 
 
Keywords: method of fundamental solutions, 
dual reciprocity method, Kirchhoff plate, 
Winkler foundation, two-parameter foundation, 
meshless 
 
二、研究目的與文獻探討 
In the numerical solutions for partial 
differential equations, it is well known that the 
finite difference method (FDM), the finite 
element method (FEM), and the boundary 
element method (BEM) are well-established 
numerical techniques for computational 
 4
thus applied [24]. 
Overall, the purpose of this project is to 
derive the MFS formulations for the 
homogeneous solutions and to combine either 
the analytical particular solutions of 
concentrated and linear loadings or the DRM 
for arbitrarily distributed loadings about the 
following plate problems: Kirchhoff plate, 
Kirchhoff plate on Winkler foundation, 
Kirchhoff plate on two-parameter foundation, 
Reissner plate, Reissner plate on Winkler 
foundation, and Reissner plate on 
two-parameter foundation. Therefore, an 
innovative meshless numerical method will be 
developed for problems of plate bending. 
Computational implementations will be carried 
out and numerical results will be discussed and 
compared with the analytical solutions as well 
as the results in literatures. 
 
 
三、結果與討論 
 
在本計畫的支持下，已有兩篇與計畫內
容相符之 SCI 期刊論文投出接受審查: 
1.C.C. Tsai, “A meshless numerical 
method for Kirchhoff plates under 
arbitrary loadings＂- submitted to 
Journal of Computers, Materials & 
Continua 
2.C.C. Tsai, “The method of fundamental 
solutions with dual reciprocity for thin 
plates on Winkler foundations with 
arbitrary loadings＂ - submitted to 
Journal of Mechanics 
另外，也參加一次國際研討會，報告與
本計劃相關之結果： 
1.C.C. Tsai, “The method of fundamental 
solutions with dual reciprocity for thin 
plates on Pasternak foundations with 
arbitrary loadings＂, MFS 2007, Cyprus 
 
由以上兩文章之研究結果，吾人研發出，複
數核之基本解法，以及複數分解之特解如何
轉換為實數，另外，也找出四階的板基本控
制方程式之各種邊界條件的表示式，這些結
果能提供將來工程應用的基礎，目前，本人
正 與 九 洲 產 業 大 學 之 Prof. Wataru, 
Fujisaki 進行這方面之學術合作，將來就會
有更進一步之結果。 
 
另外，在本計畫執行期間，本計畫主持
人在本計畫的支持下，發表以下數篇期刊論
文: 
1. C.C. Tsai, “The Method of Fundamental 
Solutions for Three-dimensional Elastostatic 
Problems of Transversely Isotropic Solids”, 
Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements, 
2007, 31, 586-594 
2. D. L. Young, C. C. Tsai, C. W. Chen, C.M. 
Fan, “Method of Fundamental Solutions for 
Inverse Problems of Laplace Equation”, 
Computers and Mathematics with Applications, 
in press 
3. C.C. Tsai, “Solutions of Slow Brinkman 
Flows Using the Method of Fundamental 
Solutions”, International Journal for Numerical 
Methods in Fluids, in press 
4. C.C. Tsai, “Kernels of the Method of 
Fundamental Solutions for Kirchhoff plates”, 
International Mathematical Forum, 2007, 2, 
935-945 
 
 
四、參考文獻 
1. Kansa E J (1990) Multiquadrics - A 
Scattered Data Approximation Scheme with 
Applications to Computational Fluid 
Dynamics-II. Solutions to Parabolic, 
Hyperbolic and Elliptic Partial Differential 
Equations. Computers and Mathematics with 
Applications 19: 147-161 
2. Atluri SN, Zhu T (1998) A new meshless 
local Petrov-Galerkin (MLPG) approach in 
computational mechanics, Comput. Mech. 22: 
117-127 
3. Fairweather G, Karageorghis A (1998) The 
method of fundamental solutions for elliptic 
boundary value problems. Adv. Comput. Math. 
9: 69-95  
4. Fairweather G, Karageorghis A, Martin PA 
(2003) The method of fundamental solutions 
for scattering and radiation problems. Eng. 
Anal. Bound. Elem. 27: 759-769 
5. Golberg MA, Chen CS (1999) The method 
of fundamental solutions for potential, 
