2 
rejection or emergency handlings. Therefore, 
implementation of AF in software is much 
desired in the industrial applications [4].  
Subbarao et al. developed an AF 
algorithm using the depth-from-focus 
technique [5]. It was assumed that an 
out-focused image is the correlation of a 
focused image and a point spread function. 
Two or more of such out-focused images can 
be used to compute the focused position. 
Zhang et al. [6] claimed that image blur can 
be measured based on higher-order central 
moments of images. The measure is 
dependent on the blur parameter but 
independent to the image contents. However, 
a frame of image is assumed to have the 
same degree of blur. This assumption may 
not hold if there exist different depths in a 
microscopic view.  
Distance between lens and object 
determines the sharpness of an acquired 
image. The sharpness can be quantified as a 
focus value (FV) of the image. Then, an FV 
curve forms as the lens position and acquired 
image vary. Such a curve might reveal a peak 
where the acquired image contents have the 
highest frequency locally or globally.  
An AF task is to search for a focused 
position via comparing the FVs of the 
acquired images. Methods for the FV 
measures were developed based on the image 
histogram, variation, energy of square 
gradient, entropy function, frequency 
spectrum function, energy of Laplacian, 
square Gaussian gradient, 
Laplacian-Gaussian and Tenengrad, etc. [3]. 
Most of the measures perform good 
efficiency on computation. However, they 
may have a low signal-to-noise ratio in the 
out-focused region of a microscopic view. 
This might induce a significant local peak in 
an FV curve and result in inaccurate AF.  
On the other hand, searching for an FV 
peak involves an algorithm of consecutive 
motorized positioning of lens. The speed of 
searching is associated with the motor 
settling time, image acquisition rate, data 
quantity for processing, step sizes of lens 
move, and number of iterations in the 
searching. Time for motor settling and image 
acquisition is mainly subject to hardware 
selection. Nonetheless proper distribution of 
the time in an AF control loop is also critical 
to boost up the speed of response.  
Reduction of data quantity using 
sub-windowing is another approach for the 
speed promotion [4]. By sub-windowing, 
only image data within a pre-defined 
sub-window are used for processing. 
However, the tradeoff for gaining speed 
could be losing accuracy of focusing unless 
the size of sub-window must be properly 
defined. For example, to achieve good 
balancing between speed and accuracy, a 
larger sub-window is suggested to use in the 
out-focused searching while a smaller 
sub-window is used in the in-focused 
searching. In addition, larger step sizes of 
lens moves used in the out-focused searching 
will enhance speed while smaller step sizes 
used in the in-focused searching will enhance 
accuracy. Therefore, a good response of AF 
requires adaptation of the step sizes as the 
lens moves [7].  
Published AF algorithms include the 
so-called global scan, Fabonacci searching, 
semi-searching, variational proportion 
searching and central region searching [8]. In 
a global scan, each lens position is scanned 
and image FV is calculated. The global scan 
ends with relocation of the lens to the global 
peak. A global scan is usually 
time-consuming though reliable.  
Modification of the global scan was 
proposed by a built-in detector for a 
percentage of FV drop to save unnecessary 
scans [8]. Another modification was 
proposed based on subdividing a global 
region at finite lens positions [3]. Then, a 
rough search is executed among the finite 
lens positions following by a fine search in a 
finer step sizes for the global peak. This 
two-stage approach is advantageous to 
achieve good speed of response. However, a 
practical global region may not be known in 
advance. 
Fibonacci searching is based on 
continuously subdividing a searching region 
into sub-regions according to the Fabonacci 
sequence. The search requires the least 
number of iterations in a global region. For 
example, it requires no more than 13 
iterations of search to reach a focused 
position among 256 lens positions. In 
Fibonacci searching, the global region must 
be known in advance. In addition, the 
4 
Figure 3 shows a state flow diagram of 
the proposed AF algorithm. The algorithm is 
composed of three stages which include 
initial search for direction, a rough search, 
and a fine search. Backlash is taken into 
account by a designated compensator for 
improvement of positioning accuracy. The 
fine search is optional and it can be invoked 
as the rough search terminates, to enhance 
the focusing accuracy by subsequent 
searching with finer step sizes. 
 
1. Initial search for direction 
In the proposed initial search for 
direction, image acquisition and computation 
of the image FV are executed at the initial 
lens position. Then, the lens moves in an 
arbitrary direction with a fixed step size and 
following by another image acquisition and 
FV computation. Criteria to check for 
determining the searching direction include: 
(1) Check if a significant change of FV 
occurs. (2) Check if monotonous changes of 
FV occur in the specified cycle times. (3) 
Invoke a second measure for determining the 
direction if none of the above checks occurs.  
The fixed step size, the significant level 
of FV change and the cycle times are all 
design parameters in this stage. To gain more 
robustness against image fluctuation, a 
smoothing filter (median followed by 
average) is suggested by Kim et al. [4].  
 
2. Rough search 
Rough search plays an important role on 
the overall AF performance. Use of small 
step size for lens move will slow down 
searching speed. However, use of large step 
size could induce large overshoot that may 
cause severe focusing inaccuracy or 
instability. It is necessary to incorporate an 
adaptation mechanism for varying the step 
sizes in the rough search to achieve good AF 
responses.  
In each lens move of the rough search, 
image acquisition and FV computation are 
executed. The adaptation mechanism 
proposed by He et al. [7] is adopted in this 
study. The step size is updated based on the 
magnitude and variation of image FV. The 
adaptation starts as the searching direction is 
ascertained in the previous stage. 
Included in the proposed algorithm is 
also a mechanism to bypass the “obstacle” 
due to a false local peak. A significant level 
of image FV can be designated to bypass the 
false local peak if its strength is lower than 
that of the global peak. Criteria to check for a 
peak in the rough search include: (1) Check 
if the image FV has reached the significant 
level. (2) Check if a specific percentage of 
FV drop occurs. Both of the criteria must be 
met before the rough search terminates 
otherwise change the initial direction for 
search and repeat the search (i.e., a recovery 
mechanism). 
 
3. Fine search 
The fine search is designated to further 
enhance the focusing accuracy if it is 
requested. In each lens move of the fine 
search, image acquisition and FV 
computation are executed. A proportional 
controller with consecutively reduced gains 
is designated to vary the step size as the lens 
moves.  
Criteria to check for peak in the fine 
search include: (1) Check if a percentage of 
FV drop occurs. (2) Check if the step size is 
less than a specified size. Both of the criteria 
must be met before the fine search terminates 
otherwise repeat the search. 
The proportional controller with 
reduced step sizes is designated as below:  
...,,ifor,zdz iii  2 1        )(1 =∆α=∆ +      (10) 
  )]1()([ −−= iMiMsgnd ppi  
1    )1( <= ++ ααα ,  
 1   
 
   )1(- 1 <α∆
α∆+∆−=α −
−− ,
z
zz
i
ii  
where ∆zi denotes the step size in the ith 
iteration; ∆zi+1 denotes the step size in the 
(i+1)th iteration; di is a direction bit;α+ and α - denote the control gains. Both of the 
gains are less than 1 to assure the stability of 
the fine search. 
As the FV measure increases in a 
previous lens move, the direction bit is kept 
unchanged but the step size is reduced by 
multiplying it with the gain α+. As the FV 
measure decreases in a previous lens move, 
the direction bit is changed and the previous 
lens position is reimbursed. The step size is 
then reduced by multiplying the previous 
step size with the gain α -. 
6 
search). The proposed algorithm is adequate 
for microscopic applications with different 
magnification lens. Criteria to check for 
accomplishment in each stage are 
summarized along with designated 
parameters for tuning the AF performance.  
In measuring image FV, the strength of 
a global peak denotes the signal to amplify 
while the strength of an undesired local peak 
denotes noise. Variance of sub-windowing 
measures is proposed to enhance the 
signal-to-noise ratio as shown in the 
illustrated experimental results. With the 
enhancement of signal-to-noise ratio, the 
parameter of significant levels of image FV 
can be reduced and this is advantageous to 
bypassing the local peak and improving 
overall focusing reliability and accuracy. 
Extensive experimental tests of the 
proposed AF algorithm have been conducted. 
Adequate overshoot responses are achieved 
via the designated step-size adaptation. The 
focusing errors in the steady state are within 
the tolerance of depth of focus for each lens. 
Robustness of the proposed AF algorithm 
against the undesired local peak and 
incorrect initial direction of search is 
enhanced by the designated significant level 
of FV and the integrated recovery 
mechanism. Among the tests, the AF time 
spreads over the range of 400-1700 ms and it 
is less than 1000 ms in average. 
 
 
 Fig. 1 Sub-windowing in the proposed 
measure. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Schematic of an ideal FV curve. 
 
 
Fig. 3 State flow diagram of the proposed AF 
algorithm. 
 
 
   
Fig. 4  Microscopic AF system. 
FV 
in-focused 
region 
out-focused 
region 
peak 
focused position 
Initial search for direction 
Rough search
Fine search
Focused position found 
 
Fine search
requested? Yes 
No
f11(x,y) f12(x,y) f13(x,y) f14(x,y)
f21(x,y) f22(x,y) f23(x,y) f24(x,y)
f31(x,y) f32(x,y) f33(x,y) f34(x,y)
f41(x,y) f42(x,y) f43(x,y) f44(x,y)
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 11 Sub-windowing images at 6 selected 
positions of x5 lens. 
 
 
       
Fig. 12 Tests of proposed AF algorithm in 
x50 lens. 
 
 
 
       
Fig. 13 Tests of proposed AF algorithm in x5 
lens. 
 
 
Fig. 14 AF time vs. initial lens position in 
x50 lens. 
 
 
 
Fig. 15 AF time vs. initial lens position in x5 
lens. 
 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] Y. Yoshida, S. Shinohara, H. Ikeda, K-I 
Tada, H. Yoshida, K-I Nishide and M. 
Sumi, “Application of Semiconductor 
Laser Range Finder to Position Control 
of Lens in Auto-Focus Camera,” IEEE 
International Conference on Industrial 
Electronics, Control and Instrumentation, 
IECON 91, pp. 2357-2361, 1991. 
[2] T. Koizumi, H-S Chun and H. Zen, “A 
New Optical Detector for a High-Speed 
AF Control,” IEEE Trans. On Consumer 
Electronics, Vol. 42, No. 4, pp. 
1055-1061, Nov. 1996. 
[3]  F. Li and H. Jin, “A Fast Auto Focusing 
Method for Digital Still Camera,” 
Proceedings of the Fourth International 
Conference on Machine Learning and 
Cybernetics, Guangzhou, 18-21, pp. 
5001-5005, Aug. 2005.  
[4] Y. Kim, J-S Lee, A. W. Morales and S-J 
AF 
time
z0 (0.1 µm) 
AF 
time
z0 (1 µm) 
Depth of 
Iteration 
zi  
(1 µm) 
Depth of 
Iteration 
zi  
(0.1 µm) 
(a) z = -900 (b) z = - 600 
(d) z = 0 (e) z = 600 (f) z = 1200 
(c) z=-300 
  
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※                        ※ 
※                        ※ 
※                        ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-168 -018 - 
執行期間：95年 8月 1日至 96年 7月 31日 
  
 
計畫主持人：林穀欽   
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：江育徳   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
 
執行單位：崑山科技大學機械系 
 
 
 
中 華 民 國  96 年  9 月  21 日 
附件：封面格式 
鏡頭移動間被動式自動聚焦控制 
