2 
1. Research Objectives 
This study uses patent bibliometric analysis and patent network analysis to 
analyze patents for CNT-FED technology. First, we analyze the bibliometric data in 
the patent documents by using patent bibliometric analysis to find the developmental 
path of CNT-FED technology and its current states. Furthermore, we draw a network 
graph of CNT-FED patents by using patent network analysis. We seek to find the 
overall relationship among the patents and the relative importance of individual 
patents in the patent network. And then, we use clustering analysis to cluster all 
patents in the patent network and confirm the characteristics of the clusters. This 
information will be helpful to technology package management. Finally, we suggest 
future directions and trends of CNT-FED technology based on the results of analyses. 
 
2. Research Methods 
Two methods are used in this study as follows. 
(1) Patent bibliometric analysis 
Patent bibliometric analysis is a research method utilizing bibliometrics to 
perform patent information analysis in order to evaluate technological activities. 
This study uses patent bibliometric analysis to analyze 98 CNT-FED patents to 
uncover the developmental path of CNT-FED technology and its current states. 
First, we use statistical analysis to find the growth in patents and perform country 
comparison, assignee comparison and inventor comparison. Then, we use citation 
analysis to analyze highly cited journals to quantify the dependence of technology 
on basic science, and to analyze highly cited patents to find out the important 
patents in the field of CNT-FED. 
 
(2) Patent network analysis 
Patent network analysis uses the frequency of keywords occurrence in patent 
documents as the input base to produce a visual patent network. The relations 
among patents represent edges in the patent network while individual patents 
represent nodes. Patent network analysis can visually display all the relationship 
among the patents and assists the researcher in intuitively understanding the entire 
structure of the patent database. After patent bibliometric analysis, the next step 
for this study is to use patent network analysis to examine the overall relationship 
of CNT-FED patents and to find out the key patents. 
4 
construction of CNT materials, and this phenomenon indicates that CNT is 
expected for the ideal material as the emitter in FED fabrication. In addition, the 
whole process and the phosphor material regarding FED device also play an 
important role for industrial field. 
(3) The patents were further analyzed in cluster level. Although the measurements in 
overall network level analysis have pointed out the main subjects of CNT-FED, 
the cluster level analysis can effectively help for monitoring technological trends 
in each cluster. According to the characteristic of clusters, they are named CNT 
emitter material technology cluster, anode material technology cluster, and whole 
process and other materials technology cluster, respectively. Obviously, the three 
clusters not only reflect three portions of critical technologies, but also further 
provide insights into the technological trends of CNT-FED. The key point, critical 
bottleneck and popular direction of each cluster can be rapidly compiled and 
analyzed by this method. In cluster level analysis, deposition CNT on substrate, 
coating phosphor on screen, and assembling process for whole device are playing 
the important role for CNT-FED fabrication. 
(4) This study reveals the approaches for making a CNT-based FED generally fall into 
two categories: (a) replacing the field emitter with an alternate material, and (b) 
producing field emitter designs that do not require the traditional technology. For 
the next generation FED, researchers have directed efforts towards reducing the 
overall display cost by replacing the metal emitter with alternative cold field 
emitters, such as CNT-based materials. Alternative materials provide a cost benefit 
if the switching voltage is reduced below the 20-60 volt range, thus allowing the 
use of smaller, less expensive driver ICs. Improved emitter materials also benefit 
displays if they can be incorporated in the display at a lower cost, or if they allow 
larger features with better yield due to their improved performance. For this 
purpose, researchers have to investigate materials which posses either a lower 
electron work function or a larger intrinsic field enhancement. 
6 
15. Nicolaescu, D., Filip, L. D., Kanemaru, S., Itoh, J. (2004). Modeling of focused 
carbon nanotube array emitters for field-emission displays. Japanese Journal of 
Applied Physics Part 1, 43, pp.3328-3334. 
16. Saito, Y., Uemura, S. (2000). Field emission from carbon nanotubes and its 
application to electron sources. Carbon, 38, pp.169-182. 
17. Schmoch, U. (1997). Indicators and the relations between science and technology. 
Scientometrics, 38, pp.103-116. 
18. Sharma, S. (1996). Applied Multivariate Techniques. John Wiley Publishers, 
New York. 
19. Talin, A. A., Dean, K. A., Jaskie, J. E. (2001). Field emission displays: a critical 
review. Solid-State Electronics, 45, pp.963-976. 
20. Trajtenberg, M. (1990). A penny for your quotes: Patent citations and the value 
of innovations. Rand Journal of Economics, 21, pp.172-187. 
21. Van Raan, A. F. J., Tijssen, R. J. W. (1993). The neural net of neural network 
research: An exercise in bibliometric mapping. Scientometrics, 26, pp.169-192. 
22. Verspagen, B. (2007). Mapping technological trajectories as patent citation 
networks: A study on the history of fuel cell research. Advances in Complex 
Systems, 10, pp.93-115. 
23. Vinkler, P. (1994). The origin and features of information referenced in 
pharmaceutical patents. Scientometrics, 30, pp.283-302. 
24. Wasserman, S., Faust, K. (1994). Social Network Analysis: Methods and 
Application. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. 
25. Yoon, B., Park, Y. (2004). A text-mining-based patent network: analytical tool for 
high-technology trend. Journal of High Technology Management Research, 15, 
pp.37-50. 
