  2 
 
underwater vehicles for different purposes, 
and the computations of the flow field 
around ducted propellers have also been 
carried out by different methods.  Since the 
research conducted by Kort (Kort, 1934), 
many scholars have developed different 
methods to simulate the flow around a 
ducted propeller.  In the potential flow 
computations, Gibson (Gibson and Lewis, 
1973) (Gibson, 1974) used a surface 
vorticity method to simulate the duct, and an 
actuator disk to simulate the propeller, 
Kerwin (Kerwin, Kinnas, Lee and Shih, 
1987) used a potential based boundary 
element method to simulate the duct, and a 
lifting surface vortex lattice method to 
simulate the propeller, and Hughes (Hughes 
and Kinnas, 1991) computed steady and 
unsteady flows around ducted propellers by 
simulating both the duct and the propeller 
flow by a boundary element method.  
Hoshino (Hoshino, 1989) and Kawakita 
(Kawakita, 1994) also computed the flow 
around ducted propellers by boundary 
element methods.  The author has 
developed similar methods as Kerwin (Kehr 
and Hsin, 1997) and Hughes (Hsin, 2001) to 
analyze the flow around pump-jets (a ducted 
propeller with a stator in front of the 
propeller).   
 
For the viscous flow computations, 
Falcão de Campos (Falcão de Campos, 1983) 
considered a ducted propeller in the 
axisymmetric shear flow, and approximate 
numerical solutions of Euler's equation were 
given using a discrete vortex method.  
Kerwin (Kerwin, Keenan, Black and Diggs, 
1994) developed a coupled viscous/potential 
flow method to compute the flow around the 
ducted propeller.  In their method, the duct 
flow is computed by a viscous flow RANS 
code, and the propeller is simulated by the 
“equivalent body force” computed from a 
vortex lattice method.  Since 2000, many 
researchers have used the viscous flow 
RANS method to compute the whole ducted 
propeller flow field, such as Sánchez Caja 
(Sánchez Caja, Rautaheimo and Siikonen, 
2000) and Kim (Kim, Paterson and Stern, 
2003). 
 
The objective of this report is to 
compute the ducted propeller flow field by 
both the potential flow method and the 
viscous flow method, and to attempt to 
identify the characteristics of both methods 
from their computational results.   In this 
report, the performance and flow field of 
ducted propellers are computed by both the 
potential flow boundary element method and 
the viscous flow RANS code.  The results 
are then analyzed with the emphasis on the 
differences between two methods and the 
verifications of the computational results.  
Influences of the geometric parameters, such 
as the gap size, rake and skew are also 
investigated.    
 
3. COMPUTATIONAL ALGORITHMS 
 
In this report, both the potential flow and 
the viscous flow computations are presented.  
In general, a ducted propeller is composed 
of a duct (shroud) and a propeller (shown as 
in Fig. 1), and the duct and the propeller can 
be calculated by the same computational 
method or by different computational 
methods.  Some computational methods 
have been introduced in the last section, and 
we will introduce related computational 
algorithms used for both the potential flow 
and the viscous flow computational methods 
presented in this report.  The potential flow 
method used in this report is a 
self-developed program, and the viscous 
flow method is a widely used commercial 
RANS method “FLUENT”. 
 
3.1 Potential Flow Computations  
The potential flow computations are 
computed by a code coupling a boundary 
element method simulating the duct flow 
and a vortex lattice method simulating the 
propeller flow.  The boundary element 
method is a potential-based boundary 
element method (Hsin, 1990), and the lifting 
surface vortex lattice method is the 
MIT-PSF-2.  The coupling effects between 
the duct and the propeller are carried out by 
the induced velocities to each other, and the 
computer depiction of the arrangement is 
  4 
 
GRIDGEN (http://www.pointwise.com/) is 
shown in Fig. 4. 
 
The way we arrange the grid is to put 
the blade in the middle of a channel, and the 
boundaries of the channel are imposed by 
the periodic boundary conditions.  
However, a proper selection of the channel 
boundary is important to the computational 
results.  Fig. 5 shows two different channel 
boundaries, and Fig. 6 shows the computed 
forces from two different settings through 
the iterations.  The computational results 
are obviously different.  We now align the 
channel boundaries with the pitch 
distribution of the propeller blade, and it 
seems to be a very good selection.    
 
4. COMPUTATIONAL RESULTS 
 
The classical experiments conducted by 
Oosterveld (Oosterveld, 1970) are first used 
to verify and to investigate the 
computational results.  The NSMB no. 33 
duct and no. 3952 propeller are used for the 
computations.  This propeller is a 5 bladed 
propeller, and the diameter is 240mm.  The 
aspect ratio of the blade is 1.0, and the pitch 
ratio at 0.7 radii is 1.4.  The gap between 
the blade tip and the duct is 1mm, and it is 
about 0.83% of the propeller radius.  We 
will use both the potential flow and viscous 
flow computational methods to calculate this 
ducted propeller, and make the 
investigations of the following force 
coefficients: 
 
2 4 2 4 2 5, ,
N
T TN Q
T T QK K K
n D n D n Dρ ρ ρ= = =
 
where TK  is the thrust coefficient of the 
ducted propeller, TNK  is the thrust 
coefficient of the duct, and QK  is the torque 
coefficient of the ducted propeller.  
 
4.1 Validation of the Potential Flow 
Computational Results   
We first compare the computational results 
of the potential flow method to the 
experimental data, and it is shown in Fig. 7.  
One can see that the force predictions from 
the computations are close to the 
experimental data for higher advanced 
coefficients (J); however, the potential flow 
computational method apparently 
over-predicts the forces at lower advanced 
coefficients.  The prediction errors may 
result from the incorrect gap flow model and 
the viscous effect.  When propellers at the 
lower advanced coefficients, it means that 
the propellers are at higher angles of attack, 
and the propeller loadings are higher.  
Therefore, the viscous effect of propellers is 
more severe at low advanced coefficients 
than that at higher advanced coefficients.  
We can also see from Fig.7 that the 
computational errors of the thrusts at lower 
advanced coefficients are mainly from the 
thrusts on the duct.  The tip gap flow 
affects both the duct force and propeller 
blade tip force computations, and the 
propeller blade tip force only occupies a 
small portion of the total propeller blade 
force.  Therefore, this again implies that 
stronger vortical flow effects at lower 
advanced coefficients are not correctly 
predicted by the potential flow method.  
For the same reason, the over-predictions of 
the torques at lower advanced coefficients 
may also due to that the gap vortical flow 
results in errors of the torque components 
near the propeller blade tip.   
 
4.2 Validation of the Viscous Flow 
Computational Results 
From the computational results of the 
potential flow method, we conclude that the 
viscous effect seems to be the major factor 
to result in the errors in force predictions at 
higher loading conditions (lower advanced 
coefficients).  The computational results of 
the viscous flow method are then compared 
to the experimental data.  Fig. 8 shows the 
comparison between the viscous flow 
computational results and the experimental 
data.  In general, the comparisons of the 
thrusts are good except at high advanced 
coefficients, and this is contrary to the 
results from the potential flow computations.  
  6 
 
and the negative rake means a forward rake.  
Zero rake and zero skew designate the 
original ducted propeller (reference 
propeller).  Table 1 shows the ducted 
propeller thrusts at J=1.2 for different 
combinations of the rakes and the skews in 
comparison to the original ducted propeller.  
Table 2 shows the similar comparison of the 
torque.  Both tables show that a positive 
rake (backward rake) gives very different 
thrusts and torques.  Table 3 shows the 
efficiencies at J=1.2 for different 
combinations.  One can see that the 
positive rake gives a better efficiency, 
although it provides lower thrust and torque.  
Hence we concentrate propellers with the 
positive rake distributions.   Fig. 14 shows 
the computed KT and KQ of propellers with 
the positive rake and the reference propeller 
by potential flow method, and it shows that 
both KT and KQ are lower no matter in 
combination with which kind of skew 
distributions.  In order to verify that the 
positive rake does give a lower KT and KQ, 
we then use the viscous flow method to 
compute propellers with the positive rake 
and zero skew.  Fig. 15 shows the 
computed KT and KQ by the viscous flow 
RANS method, and it shows that both KT 
and KQ of propellers with positive rake are 
lower than the reference propeller.  The 
efficiency at J=1.2 increases 1% in 
comparison to 3.85% from the potential 
flow computations.  Fig. 16 shows the flow 
field near the blade tip at different advanced 
coefficients computed by the viscous flow 
RANS method of that propeller, and it 
shows the complicated phenomena at that 
region. The potential may over-predict the 
differences between the reference propeller 
and propellers with the positive rake; 
however, it predicts the same trend as the 
viscous method.  
 
6. CONCLUSIONS 
 
In this report, a ducted propeller with a 
decelerating nozzle is first computed by 
both the potential flow boundary element 
method and the viscous flow RANS method.  
The computational results of both methods 
are compared to each other and verified with 
the experimental data.  Computations by 
both methods are then carried out by varying 
the geometric parameters of the ducted 
propeller.  From the computational results, 
we obtain the following conclusions: 
 
1. In general, the viscous flow RANS 
method provides a more reliable 
predictions of the ducted propeller forces 
since it can more accurately simulate the 
tip gap flow.  The potential flow 
method still gives a not too bad 
predictions to the forces, and it has the 
advantage of efficient computational 
time; 
2. For the ducted propeller computed in 
this report, the viscous flow method 
gives a better predictions at lower 
advanced coefficient (lower and equal to 
1.0), and the potential flow method gives 
a better predictions of forces at higher 
advanced coefficients (higher and equal 
to 1.0); 
3. When using two different methods to the 
geometry parameter analysis, although 
the predicted magnitude are different, 
both methods predict that a positive 
propeller rake can lower the ducted 
propeller thrust and torque, and thus 
increases the efficiency. 
It is apparent that both the potential flow 
method and the viscous flow method can 
play different roles in the design and 
analysis of ducted propellers.  The 
presented computational techniques can not 
only be applied to the ducted propellers, but 
also be used to the computations of bow 
thrusters, water-jets, etc. 
 
7. SELF EVALUATIONS 
 
Both the potential flow method and the 
viscous flow method are used for the ducted 
propeller flow filed computations, and the 
results fulfill the proposed goals. 
 
8. REFERENCES 
 
[1] Falcão de Campos, J.A.C., "On the 
Calculation of Ducted Propeller 
  8 
 
Table 2、The torques computed by the 
potential flow method at J=1.2 for different 
combinations of the rakes and the skews in 
comparison to the original ducted propeller 
 Negative 
Rake 
Zero 
Rake 
Positive 
Rake 
Negative 
Skew 
0.38% -5.81% -16.50%
Zero 
Skew 
5.83% 0 -11.70%
Positive 
Skew 
9.36% 3.86% -8.74% 
 
 
Table 3、The efficiencies computed by the 
potential flow method at J=1.2 for different 
combinations of the rakes and the skews in 
comparison to the original ducted propeller 
 Negative 
Rake 
Zero 
Rake 
Positive 
Rake 
Negative 
Skew 
-1.17% -0.59% +3.65%
Zero 
Skew 
-0.22% 0 +3.85%
Positive 
Skew 
+0.37% +0.10% +3.44%
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 The computer depiction of a ducted  
propeller 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 The computer depiction of the 
ducted propeller potential flow code 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 The boundary condition setups for 
the viscous flow RANS computations of 
the ducted propellers 
 
 
Fig. 4 The “hybrid” grid arrangement 
used in the viscous flow RANS 
computations, this grid is made by 
GRIDGEN  
  10 
 
Fig. 11 The velocity field of a ducted 
propeller near the propeller blade tip 
computed by the viscous flow code 
FLUENT for J=0.6, a strong vortex can 
be seen in the tip gap 
 
 
Fig. 12 The comparison of the computed 
forces using the viscous flow method for 
different tip gap sizes 
 
 
Fig. 13 The rake distribution and the 
skew distribution used to investigate the 
influences of the rake and the skew  
 
 
 
Fig. 14 The computed KT and KQ by the 
potential flow method for  propellers 
with the positive rake 
 
Fig. 15 The computed KT and KQ by the 
viscous flow RANS method for a 
propeller with the positive rake and zero 
skew 
 
Fig. 16 the flow field near the blade tip at 
different advanced coefficients computed 
by the viscous flow RANS method of a 
ducted propeller with a backward rake 
and zero skew  
 
