 2
鋼梁與 SRC 柱之梁柱接頭耐震性能之理論分析研究 
 
Analytical Study on Seismic Performance of  
Steel Beam-to-SRC Column Connections 
 
 
C. C. Weng 
Professor, Department of Civil Engineering,  
National Chiao Tung University 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT:  Presented herein is an analytical study to predict the seismic resisting 
capability of steel reinforced concrete (SRC) beam-to-column connection. The main reasons 
of using SRC structural members are to take their advantages in strength and stiffness as well 
as in fire protection and corrosion resistance. In this study, the shear strength of the SRC 
beam-to-column connection is taken as the sum of the shear capacities of the steel section and 
the reinforced concrete in the connection zone.  The steel section in the connection is able to 
develop shear yielding in ultimate state without premature local buckling due to the protection 
of the concrete. The strut-and-tie model is utilized to determine the shear capacity of the 
reinforced concrete in the connection. Furthermore, in recognition of the superior confining 
effect provided by the steel section in SRC column, the concrete in the connection is sub-
divided into two zones, namely “the highly confined area” and “the ordinarily confined area,” 
so that the shear strengths of each part of the concrete can be predicted more rationally.  
KEYWORDS:  Steel Reinforced Concrete (SRC); Beam-to-Column Connection; Seismic 
Resisting Capability; Shear Strength; Concrete Confinement; Strut-and-Tie 
Model; New Design Approach 
 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
With the fast advance of the construction technology, it has become increasingly popular to 
design buildings with composite structural system. The steel reinforced concrete (SRC) 
structural system provides a building with advantages including the ductility of structural steel 
and the stiffness of reinforced concrete. Additional merits of the SRC structural members are 
that the concrete also protects the steel shape from corrosion, fire damage and local buckling 
failure [1, 2]. 
The SRC structural system has been successfully used in Japan for more than half century [3]. 
The architectural institute of Japan published its first SRC design code in 1958 and released a 
latest edition in 2001 [4]. In the United States, guidelines for the design of composite 
structural system were first introduced in the 1994 NEHRP seismic provisions [5]. Latest 
design provisions of composite structures can be found from the ACI building code [6], the 
AISC design specification [7], and the AISC seismic provisions [8]. In Europe, the design 
 4
ns ys wV 0.6f A=                                      (5) 
where ysf  is the yield strength of the steel section; and wA is the area of the web of the steel 
section. 
In addition, as shown in Fig. 2, in recognition of the superior confining effect provided by the 
steel section in the SRC column, the concrete within the column is sub-divided into two 
different zones, namely “the highly confined area” and “the ordinarily confined area,” so that 
the shear strengths of each part of the concrete can be predicted more rationally.  
In this study, the strut-and-tie model is utilized to estimate the shear capacity of the reinforced 
concrete in the connection. Figures 3 (a) and (b) show the possible diagonal compressive 
struts in the SRC beam-to-column joint. The shear capacity of the reinforced concrete in SRC 
joint, nrcV , is taken as the sum of the horizontal components of the capacities of the diagonal 
compressive struts of the “highly confined concrete” and the “ordinarily confined concrete” in 
the connection zone. That is 
nrc hc ocV V V= +                                      (6) 
where hcV  and ocV are the shear capacities of the “highly confined concrete” and the “ordinarily 
confined concrete” in the connection, respectively. 
As shown in Fig. 4, in the highly confined area, it is possible for this part of concrete to 
remain sound without major cracking due to the protection the steel section in the SRC joint. 
Thus, by using the strut-and-tie model, the shear strength of the “highly confined concrete” 
can be approximated as the horizontal component of the maximum capacity of the 
compressive strut. It is further simplified as 
( ) ( )'hc cc eff hchcV 0.85 f A= ×                               (7) 
where ( )'cc hcf is the compressive strength of the highly confined concrete considering the 
beneficial confinement effect provide by the steel section and the hoop reinforcements; and 
( )eff hcA is the effective area of the highly confined concrete in the connection.  
As shown in Fig.5, in the ordinarily confined area, it is more difficult for this part of concrete 
to remain sound in the ultimate state due to the absence of the confinement provided by steel 
section. However, it is noted that the shear strength of the “ordinarily confined concrete” is 
significantly influenced by the constraint provided by the surrounding SRC beams at the joint. 
Thus, by using the strut-and-tie model, the shear strength of the “ordinarily confined concrete” 
can be approximated as the horizontal component of the maximum capacity of the 
compressive strut. It is further simplified as 
(a) For joints confined on all four faces  
( ) ( )'oc cc eff ococV 0.85 f A= ×                                                            (8) 
(b) For joints confined on three faces or on two opposite faces 
( ) ( )'oc cc eff ococV 0.63 f A= ×                               (9) 
(c) For others  
( ) ( )'oc cc eff ococV 0.51 f A= ×                                                           (10) 
 6
concrete in the connection zone can be treated more rationally. The mutual beneficial 
correlation between the steel section and the reinforced concrete in the SRC joint is one of the 
important factors in developing the new design approach. It is also hoped that this 
investigation will provide further insight on the understanding on the true mechanical 
behavior of the SRC beam-to-column connection.  
 
5.  REFERENCES 
1. Weng, C.C., Yen, S.I. and Jiang, M.H.( 2002), Experimental Study on Shear Splitting 
Failure of Full-Scale Composite Concrete Encased Steel Beams. Journal of Structural 
Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 128, No. 9, pp. 1186-1194. 
2. Weng, C.C. and Yen, S.I. (2002), Comparisons of Concrete-Encased Composite Column 
Strength Provisions of ACI Code and AISC Specification. Engineering Structures, Vol. 
24, No.1, pp. 59-72. 
3. Wakabayashi, M.A. (1987), Historical Study of Research on Composite Construction in 
Japan. Proc. of Conf. on Composite Construction in Steel and Concrete, ASCE, New 
York, pp. 400-427. 
4. AIJ (2001), Standards for Structural Calculation of Steel Reinforced Concrete Structures. 
Architectural Institute of Japan, Tokyo, Japan. 
5. FEMA (1994), Recommended Provisions for the Development of Seismic Regulations for 
New Buildings. FEMA-222A, National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program, Building 
Seismic Safety Council, Washington, D.C. 
6. ACI (2005), Building Code Requirements for Structural Concrete (ACI 318) and 
Commentary (ACI 318R). American Concrete Institute, Farmington Hills, Michigan. 
7. AISC (2005), Load and Resistance Factor Design Specification for Structural Steel 
Buildings. 4th Ed., American Institute of Steel Construction, Chicago, Illinois. 
8. AISC (2002), Seismic Provisions for Structural Steel Buildings, American Institute of 
Steel Construction, Chicago, Illinois. 
9. ECCS (1994), Design of Composite Steel and Concrete Structures, Part 1.1: General 
Rules and Rules for Buildings, ENV 1994-1-1: Eurocode 4, European Convention for 
Constructional Steelwork. 
10. MOI (2004), Building Code for Design of Steel Reinforced Concrete (SRC) Structures. 
Ministry of the Interior, Taiwan, Taipei (in Chinese) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
M
P
Strut
Node
M 
M
V 
P
S tru t
N o d e
Figure 3   Compressive strut of concrete in SRC beam-to-column joint 
 
(a)  Strut of ordinarily confined concrete (b)  Strut of highly confined concrete 
Ordinarily 
Confined 
Area 
Highly 
Confined 
Area 
Figure 4    Highly confined area of concrete in the SRC joint 
Highly 
Confined 
Concrete 
 
V V
M V
