local optimum. 
For portfolio optimization, Kim and Han [4] 
proposed a genetic algorithm (GA) [5] approach 
to feature discretization and the determination of 
connection weights for ANNs to predict the stock 
index. They suggested that their approach was 
able to reduce the numbers of attributes and the 
prediction performance was enhanced. In addition, 
Caplan and Becker [6] employed genetic 
programming (GP) to develop a stock ranking 
model for the high technology manufacturing 
industry in the U.S. Afterwards, Becker et al. [7] 
explored various single-objective fitness functions 
for GP to construct stock selection models for 
particular investment specifics with respect to risk. 
More recently, Huang et al. [8] proposed a hybrid 
fuzzy-GA model for stock selection. Based on 
several statistical tests, Huang et al. showed the 
model can outperformed the benchmark 
significantly. In a nutshell, these GP/GA-based 
models rank stocks from high to low according to 
a pre-defined objective function. 
In the area of fuzzy applications in finance, 
earlier work includes, for instance, Chu et al.'s 
fuzzy multiple attribute decision analysis to select 
stocks for portfolio construction [9]. Analogously, 
Zargham and Sayeh [10] employed a fuzzy 
rule-based system to evaluate a set of stocks for 
the same purpose. Although these fuzzy 
approaches denote early efforts in employing 
computational intelligence for financial 
applications, they usually lack sufficient learning 
ability.  
Behavioral finance is a relatively new field to 
the study of financial markets that has emerged in 
response to the difficulties faced by the traditional 
paradigm [11]. This area of research aims at the 
understanding of the influence of psychology on 
the behavior of financial practitioners and the 
subsequent effect on markets. It is of interest 
because it assists to explain why and how markets 
might be inefficient [12]. In the last decade, 
investor sentiment has been identified as a crucial 
research area in behavioral finance. Although 
there exist several aforementioned approaches of 
soft computing that have emerged as a useful set 
of tools in solving the problems in finance, studies 
along the line of investor sentiment are still 
lacking. Therefore, in this study, we will extend 
our previous work in [8] to employ a GA-based 
stock selection model using investor sentiment 
indicators, where the GA is used for feature 
selection and optimization of parameters, 
simultaneously. Since, in our model, feature 
selection depends on the output of the stock 
selection model, this model can be categorized as 
a wrapper approach [13-14], as opposed to the 
filter approach. The wrapper approach for feature 
selection is employed in this study because of its 
improved performance over the filter approach 
[13-15].  
In a nutshell, we will conduct the stock scoring 
mechanism with the GA-optimized model 
parameters and subsets of features. Based on the 
scores calculated, top-ranked stocks are then 
chosen for portfolio construction. We will report 
the portfolios constructed by our proposed 
scheme substantially outperform the benchmark 
over the long period of time. 
This paper is organized into five sections. 
Section 2 outlines the methods employed in our 
study. In Section 3, we describe the research data 
used in this study. In Section 4, we present the 
experimental design and empirical results are 
reported and discussed. Section 5 concludes this 
paper with future research directions. 
 
三、 研究方法 
 
II. METHODOLOGY 
This section first describes the relevant 
ingredients of our proposed model in [8] for stock 
scoring. Afterwards, model optimization, i.e., 
parameter optimization and feature selection, by 
the GA will be discussed. 
A. Stock scoring via financial variables 
In this study, we are concerned with the relative 
quality of stocks described by the fundamental 
variables, including firms’ share price rationality, 
growth, profitability, liquidity, efficiency, and 
leverage attributes. In general, these fundamental 
variables can be used to determine the value of a 
stock, defined by the score assigned by our 
proposed model. Our objective of this scoring 
model is to imply stocks of higher scores to 
possess higher potential in future price 
advancement. Based on these scores one can then 
rank various stocks and top-ranked stocks are 
picked to construct the portfolio. 
In this study, we employ a straightforward 
combinations of sets of features that improve 
given optimization criteria, this class of 
algorithms are expected to cope better with 
feature interaction problems. Therefore, we 
propose to use the GA method to search for 
optimal subsets of features for the stock selection 
model. 
  Apart from feature selection, two sets of free 
parameters, I and W, are to be provided for the 
stock selection model. Here we employ the GA 
for simultaneous optimization of these tasks. In 
our overall encoding design, the composition of a 
chromosome is devised to consist of three 
portions ― the candidate set of features F, the 
stock sorting indicators I and the weighs W. In 
this study, the binary coding scheme is used to 
represent a chromosome. In Fig. 1, loci 1fb  
through nfb  represent candidate features 1 
through n, respectively. For these features, allele 
‘1’ or ‘0’ corresponds to the feature being selected 
or not. Loci 1ib  through 
n
ib  represent the sorting 
indicators, where 0 represents the variable being 
used for case (1) of our stock sorting scheme, and 
1 represents case (2), respectively. On the 
right-hand side of Fig. 1 is the encoding of the set 
of parameters W. Fig. 2 shows the detailed binary 
encoding for the weight of each individual 
variable, where the value of Wi (the weight for 
variable i) is encoded by loci 1Wib  through inWib . 
 
 
Figure 1.  Chromosome encoding 
 
 
Figure 2.  Detailed encoding of the weighting 
terms 
 
In our coding scheme, the portion in the 
chromosome representing the genotypes of 
parameter Wi's is to be transformed into the 
phenotype by Eq. (5) for further fitness 
computation. The precision representing each 
parameter depends on the number of bits used to 
encode it in the chromosome, which can be 
determined as follows: 
 
),min(max
12
min yyly
dy −×
−
+=  
(5) 
 
where y is the corresponding phenotype for the 
particular parameter; miny and maxy are the 
minimum and  maximum of the parameter; d is 
the corresponding decimal value, and l is the 
length of the block used to encode the parameter 
in the chromosome. 
With this encoding scheme, we define the 
fitness function of a chromosome as the average 
monthly return of the portfolio: 
                ,n cRfitness =              (6) 
where Rc is the cumulative total return computed 
by Eq. (4). 
Our proposed GA model for stock selection is a 
multi-stage process, including feature selection 
and parameter optimization by the GA, stock 
scoring, stock ranking and selection, as well as 
performance evaluation. The flowchart of this 
hybrid algorithm is shown in Fig. 3. 
 
 
Figure 3.  Flow chart of the hybrid GA model 
 
III. RESEARCH DATA 
We use the constituent stocks listed in the 
Taiwan Stock Exchange as the investment 
universe. The monthly data of investor sentiment 
indicators and stock returns used for this research 
are retrieved from the TEJ (Taiwan Economic 
Journal Co. Ltd., http://www.tej.com.tw/) 
database for the period of 24 months from 2009 to 
2010. For the choice of investor sentiment 
indicators, early studies indicated that several 
financial ratios play key roles in future stock 
returns. Most of them applied efficiency (e.g., 
turnover  rate ),  ratios  concerning share price
monthly returns of all the stocks in the investment 
universe) and the cumulative returns of longing a 
number of top-ranked stocks recommended by the 
GA and GAFS model. This figure shows that the 
portfolios of maintaining 5 and 20 stocks 
outperform the benchmark at the end of year 2010. 
As a result, the optimization on the stock selection 
model by the GA is advantageous to stock 
selection. 
 
 
Figure 5.  Cumulative returns of benchmark v.s. 
longing top-ranked stocks by the GA and GAFS 
stock selection model 
 
  In order to examine the validity of the 
methodology we proposed, further statistical 
validation on the model is conducted. In reality, 
the learned model has to be tested by unseen data. 
Here, we use the stock data of the first several 
months to train the GA model, and the remaining 
months are used for testing the learned model. 
Thus the average monthly return of the selected 
stocks for each of the testing month is calculated. 
The average monthly returns are then 
compounded to obtain the cumulative total return 
of the portfolio over the testing months. 
  Notice that this setup is different from the 
regular cross-validation procedure where the 
process of data being split into two independent 
sets is randomly repeated several times without 
taking into account the data's temporal order. 
However, in the stock selection study here, 
temporal order is critical as practically one would 
like to use all available data so far to train the 
model and to apply the models in the future to 
gain profits. 
  Here we compare the cumulative benchmark 
returns (the product of the average monthly 
returns of all the stocks in the investment universe) 
and the cumulative average returns of longing a 
number of top-ranked stocks using our stock 
selection model. As an illustration, Table 2 and 3 
show the model validation for selecting 5 stocks 
by the GA and GAFS model for 50 runs, 
respectively. In the 5-stock GA model, in the 
testing cases, an inspection on the means of 
monthly returns shows that the model 
outperformed the benchmark in 16 out of 23 cases; 
and for the GAFS, the model outperformed the 
benchmark in 20 out of 23 cases. As a result, 
feature selection can be advantageous in further 
improving the effectiveness of our proposed stock 
selection model. 
The validations have thus far provided statistical 
evidence that our proposed stock selection 
methodology is promising for investment in 
research and practice. 
 
五、 計畫成果自評 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper we presented a genetic-based 
methodology for stock selection using investor 
sentiment indicators. Based on the designed stock 
scoring mechanism, top-ranked stocks can be 
selected as components in a portfolio. In the mean 
time, the GA was employed for optimization of 
model parameters and feature selection for the 
model. We have evaluated the proposed models 
statistically and showed that the our approach can 
significantly outperform the benchmark. 
Therefore, we expect this model to advance the 
research in computational finance and provide a 
promising solution to stock selection. In the future, 
we intend to employ more advanced methods 
such as fuzzy theory for scoring models to 
investigate if the performance of portfolios can be 
further improved. In addition, our current model 
considers the first several years as the training set 
and the next several years as the test set. This may 
not be sufficient to generate a feasible model to 
account for the dynamic patterns in the dataset. 
For instance, it might be difficult to infer 
plausible scores for stocks in the period from 
1996 till 2009 if the model uses only the stocks of 
1995 for training. Therefore, in the future work, 
we intend to study a model that would be capable 
of generating more time-dependent patterns to 
take into account the impact of the more recent 
past data of the stocks. 
[3] N. Chapados, Y. Bengio, “Cost functions and 
model combination for VaR-based asset 
allocation using neural networks,” IEEE 
Transactions on Neural Networks, Vol. 12, 
2001, pp. 890–906. 
[4] K. J. Kim, I. Han, “Genetic algorithms 
approach to feature discretization in artificial 
neural networks for the prediction of stock 
price index,” Expert Systems with 
Applications, Vol.19, 2000, pp. 125–132. 
[5] J. H. Holland, Adaptation in natural and 
artificial systems, University of Michigan 
Press, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 1975. 
[6] M. Caplan, Y. Becker, “Lessons learned using 
genetic programming in a stock picking 
context,” in: U.-M. O'Reilly, T. Yu, R. Riolo, 
B. Worzel (Eds.), Genetic Programming 
Theory and Practice II, Springer, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, 2004, pp. 87–102, Chapter 6. 
[7] Y. Becker, P. Fei, A. Lester, “Stock 
selection – An innovative application of 
genetic programming methodology,” in: R. 
Riolo, T. Soule, B. Worzel (Eds.), Genetic 
Programming Theory and Practice IV, 
Genetic and Evolutionary Computation, Vol. 
5, Springer, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 2006, pp. 
315– 334, Chapter 12. 
[8] Huang, C.-F., Chang, C.-H., Chang, B. R. and 
Cheng, D.-W. (2011). “A Study of a Hybrid 
Evolutionary Fuzzy Model for Stock 
Selection,” Proceeding of the 2011 IEEE 
International Conference on Fuzzy Systems, 
Taipei, Taiwan, June 27-30, 2011, pp. 
210-217. 
[9] T. C. Chu, C. T. Tsao, Y. R. Shiue, 
“Application of fuzzy multiple attribute 
decision making on company analysis for 
stock selection,” in: Proceedings of Soft 
Computing on Intelligent Systems and 
Information Processing, 1996, pp. 509–514. 
[10] M. R. Zargham, M. R. Sayeh, “A web-based 
information system for stock selection and 
evaluation,” in: Proceedings of the First 
International Workshop on Advance Issues of 
E-Commerce and Web-Based Information 
Systems, 1999, pp. 81-83. 
[11] Barberis, N. and R. H. Thaler. 2003. A 
survey of behavioral finance. In Handbook of 
the Economics of Finance (ed. G. 
Constantinides, M. Harris, and R. Stulz). 
Amsterdam: North-Holland. 
[12] S. Martin, “Behavioural Finance,” Working 
paper, University of College London, April 
2010. 
[13] G. John, R. Kohavi, K. Peger, “Irrelevant 
features and the subset selection problem,” in: 
Proceedings of the 11th international 
conference on machine learning, 1994, pp. 
121–129. 
[14] R. Kohavi, G. John, “Wrappers for feature 
subset selection,” Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 
97(1–2), 1997, pp. 273–324. 
[15] C. L. Huang, C. J. Wang, “A GA-based 
feature selection and parameters optimization 
for support vector machines,” Expert Systems 
with Applications, Vol. 31, 2006, p. 231–240. 
[16] J. Piotroski, “Value investing: The use of 
historical financial statement information to 
separate winners from losers,” Journal of 
Accounting Research, Vol. 38, 2000, pp. 
1–41. 
[17] M. Baker, and J.C. Stein, “Market liquidity 
as a sentiment indicator,” Journal of Financial 
Markets, Vol.7, No.3, pp. 271-299, 2004. 
[18] S. Basu, “Investment performance of 
common stocks in relation to their 
price-earnings ratios: A test of the efficient 
market hypothesis,” Journal of Finance, 
Vol.32, No.3, pp. 633-682, 1977. 
[19] S. Sehgal, G.S. Sood, and N. Rajput, 
“Developing an investor sentiment index for 
India,” International Review of Business and 
Finance, Vol.2, No.1, pp. 87-96, 2010. 
[20] S. Nagel, “Short sales, institutional investors 
and the cross-section of stock returns,” 
Journal of Financial Economics, Vol.78, No.2, 
pp. 277–309, 2005. 
[21] R. Verma, and G. Soydemir, “The impact of 
U.S. individual and institutional investor 
sentiment on foreign stock markets,” Journal 
of Behavioral Financial, Vol.7, No.3, pp. 
128–144, 2006. 
[22] A. Kumar, and C.M.C. Lee, “Retail investor 
sentiment and return comovements,” Journal 
of Finance, Vol.61, No.5, pp. 2451-2468, 
2006. 
[23] K.C. Chan, and N. Chen, “An unconditional 
asset-pricing test and the role of firm size as 
an instrumental variable for risk,” Journal of 
Finance, Vol.43, No.2, pp. 309-325, 1988. 
[24] W. Wong, M. Manzur, and B.K. Chews, 
“How rewarding is technical analysis? 
 1
參加 ICMLC2011 國際研討會出國報告書 
報告人：黃健峯 
國科會補助編號：NSC 99-2221-E-390 -032 
 
1.參加會議經過   
 2011 年機器學習與自動控制學國際會議(The 2011 International Conference 
on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, ICMLC）是舉行於中國桂林之電腦科學中與
機器學習理論及應用相關之綜合性國際研討會 (於七月九日至七月十三日共四
天)。該會議是每年一度的國際研討會，結合學者及業者從學術界到工業界來呈
現資料探勘、機械學習、神經網路、模楜理論、人工智慧、代理人系統、知識工
程、影像處理、移動計算、資訊安全、生物資訊的最新進展，含蓋計算、資訊和
系統等方面的理論及應用。本年度研討會除了接續前幾屆 ICMLC 研討會的成果
外，主要集中於近年來資訊及智慧型系統的創新發展: 社群網路、代理人系統、
資訊安全及多種智慧型之實務應用。筆者在主要在會中發表乙篇論文為” 
Tracking extrema in dynamic environments using probability collectives 
multi-agent systems”。筆者在此研究論文所發展之機器學習模型將被運用於我
們目前的選股模型中以取代原有之遺傳演算法達到最佳化之目的。 
 
2.與會心得 
 本次國際研討會共邀請三位學者專家來做 keynote speech，其目的是為了
彰顯此次大會所揭櫫的主題：機器學習、資訊及智慧型系統。第一位受邀演講者
是 Professor Shyi-Ming Chen, IEEE Fellow, IET Fellow, IFSA Fellow, 所
演講的主題是” Fuzzy Forecasting Based on High-Order Fuzzy Time Series 
and Genetic Algorithms”。第二位演講者是 Prof. Seong-Whan Lee, IEEE 
Fellow, IAPR Fellow, Korean Academy of Science and Technology Fellow, 所
演講的主題是 “Machine Learning Challenges for Human Brain Decoding”。 第
三位演講者是 Vladimír Mařík, Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Trans. on SMC, 
part C Head, 所演講的主題是 ”Agent Technologies for Industrial Needs: 
Trends and Challenges” 。此三場演講內容涵蓋電腦和資訊科技的重要領域，
而其演講亦提供聽眾有關機器學習的深刻洞見，使得參與此次研討會的人受益良
多。此外，在此國際研討會中眾多學者交換其最新的研究成果亦使此研討會生色
不少。因此，2011 年的 ICMLC 國際研討會所揭櫫的各種新的演算法則及軟硬體
的改進，顯示出此領域確能擴大應用於解决現實世界中的眾多問題。因此本次大
會主題所提出與資訊及智慧型系統的最新研究成果的確提供吾人更多的尖端知
識，並可藉以擬定未來的研究方向。 
 
International Conference on
Machine Learning and Cybernetics 2011
Dear Author,
Congratulations. Your paper has been accepted for publication in the proceedings of the
International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC) 2011.
Please verify the following items to ensure their accuracies:
(1) Please confirm the following:
Paper ID: 3726
Title: TRACKING EXTREMA IN DYNAMIC ENVIRONMENTS
USING PROBABILITY COLLECTIVES MULTI-AGENT
SYSTEMS
Authors: Chien-Feng Huang,National University of Kaohsiung,Taiwan
Bao Rong Chang,National University of Kaohsiung,Taiwan
Dun-Wei Cheng,Dun-Wei Cheng,Taiwan
Please be reminded your paper will be rejected if the title, names of author(s) or
the order of author list of your final version is different from the original version.
(2) If your paper exceeds six pages, you must pay HKD 540 (USD 70 #) per extra
page.
(3) Your paper will NOT be published in the conference proceedings unless you
COMPLETE EVERY STEP of the following tasks by 7-May-2011
a. Register on or before 7-May-2011
The registration fee:
Non-IEEE Member: USD 550 (equivalent to HKD 4270 #)
IEEE Member*: USD 500 (equivalent to HKD 3890 #)
Student*: USD 450 (equivalent to HKD 3500 #)
Please pay in Hong Kong Currency.
* Identification(s) may be required. Please bring your identification(s) to
the conference.
# As of 20-April-2011, the exchange rate is HKD 7.78 for one USD.
The registration fee of each participant should be settled by credit card
payment. For detail, please see the other attachment (creditcardpayment.
doc)
Please be reminded when you settle the registration fee, attach the Paper
ID, Paper Title and the Registrant Name as a remark.
Page 1/2
  
TRACKING EXTREMA IN DYNAMIC ENVIRONMENTS USING 
PROBABILITY COLLECTIVES MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS 
CHIEN-FENG HUANG, BAO-RONG CHANG, DUN-WEI CHENG 
Dept. of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National University of Kaohsiung 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-MAIL: cfhuang15@nuk.edu.tw, brchang@nuk.edu.tw, m0985504@mail.nuk.edu.tw
Abstract: 
We present a study of extrema-tracking in dynamic 
environments using Probability Collectives Multi-agent 
Systems (PCMAS). In contrast to traditional 
biologically-inspired algorithms, Probability-Collectives (PC) 
based methods do not update populations of solutions; instead, 
they update an explicitly parameterized probability 
distribution over the space of solutions. Three versions of 
PCMAS in the extrema-tracking tasks are investigated: 
PCMAS1 (original PCMAS settings), PCMAS2 (temperature T 
– a factor controlling the balance between exploration and 
exploitation of the search space – is reset to the initial state 
when an environmental change takes place), as well as 
PCMAS3 (in addition to T being reset to the initial state, the 
probability distributions are also reset to uniform when an 
environment changes). By allowing PCMAS to detect changes 
in environments to re-explore the search space, we show that 
PCMAS2 and PCMAS3 significantly outperform the original 
PCMAS (i.e., PCMAS1). The study of the PCMAS in changing 
environments therefore sheds light on how this multi-agent 
methodology advances the current state of research in 
agent-based models for dynamic optimization problems. 
Keywords: 
Probability collectives; Multi-agent systems;, Extrema 
tracking; Dynamic environments  
1. Introduction 
 Biologically-inspired algorithms, such as Genetic 
algorithms (GA) [1], Ant Colony Algorithms [2], Particle 
Swarm Optimization[3], have been used as computational 
models to mimic evolutionary and social learning systems 
and as adaptive algorithms to solve complex problems. The 
core component of this class of optimization algorithms is a 
population of solutions that are employed to search for 
optimal solutions to the problem at hand. However, in the 
past decade, the research on Multi-agent Systems (MAS) 
has led to another advanced class of population-based 
adaptive algorithms that aims to provide both principles for 
construction of complex systems involving multiple agents 
and mechanisms for coordination of interacting agents’ 
behavior. 
As the complexity of a system grow, a generally more 
effective way to handle the system is through 
decomposition of the system into distributed and 
decentralized sub-systems and a given optimization task 
can be accomplished collectively by the sub-systems. In 
this scenario, the smaller subsystems can be regarded as a 
group of learning agents. These agents are self-interested 
and are dedicated to optimizing their individual rewards or 
payoffs that in turn collectively optimize the global goal on 
the systems level. Probability Collectives (PC) theory [4] 
refers to the systems-level objective as the world utility, 
which measures the performance of the whole system. PC 
is a broad framework for modeling and controlling 
distributed systems, and has deep connections to game 
theory, statistical physics, distributed control and 
optimization. 
 Typically the search of adaptive, distributed 
agent-based algorithms is conducted by having each agent 
run its own reinforcement learning algorithm [5]. In this 
methodology the global utility function G(x) in the system 
maps a joint move of the agents, x∈X , to the performance 
of the overall system. Moreover, in practice the agents in a 
MAS are bounded rational. The equilibrium they reach 
typically involves mixed strategies rather than pure 
strategies – i.e., they don’t settle on a single point x that 
optimizes G(x). This suggests formulating a framework to 
explicitly account for the bounded rational, mixed strategy 
characteristics of the agents. PC adopts this perspective to 
show that the equilibrium of a MAS is the minimizer of a 
Lagrangian L(P) (derived using information theory) that 
quantifies the expected value of G for the joint distribution 
P(x1,x2,…,xn) [4],[6]. 
 PC considers a bounded rational game in which each 
agent i chooses its move xi independently at any instant by 
sampling its probability distribution (mixed strategy), qi(xi). 
Accordingly, the probability distribution of the joint-moves 
is a product distribution; i.e., 
33
2011 IEEE978-1-4577-0308-9/11/$26.00 ©
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011
  
contain the minimal amount of extra information beyond 
that already contained in the prior knowledge about P(x). 
This approach is called the maximum entropy (maxent) 
principle and it has proven useful in domains ranging from 
signal processing to supervised learning [10]. 
One can consider an external observer of a 
multi-player game attempting to determine the equilibrium, 
i.e., the joint strategy that will be followed by real-world 
players of the game. The observer only knows the expected 
utility for each player rather than the full joint probability 
distribution the players are following. The best estimate of 
the joint distribution q that generated those expected utility 
values, by the maxent principle, is the distribution with 
maximal entropy, subject to those expectation values. 
 For simplicity assume a finite number of players and a 
discrete set of possible strategies for each player. In 
addition, to agree with convention in other fields, the sign 
of each gi is flipped so that the associated player i wants to 
minimize that function rather than maximize it. For prior 
knowledge consisting of the set of expected utilities of the 
players {εi}, the maxent estimate of the associated q is 
given by the minimizer of the Lagrangian: 
 
,)(])()([
)(])([
∑ ∫ ∏
∑
−−=
−−≡
i
iij
j
ji
i
iiqiq
qSxgxqdx
qSgEL
εβ
εβ
     (1) 
where the subscript on the expectation value indicates that 
it is evaluated under distribution q, and the {βi} are “inverse 
temperatures” (i.e., βi = 1/Ti) implicitly set by the 
constraints on the expected utilities.  
 The mixed strategies minimizing the Lagrangian are 
related to each other via 
 
)( ii xq α ]|[)( iiq xGEe− ,            (2) 
 
where the overall proportionality constant for each i is set 
by normalization, and 
 
.)()( ∑≡
i
ii xgxG β
 
 
The subscript q(i) on the expectation value indicates 
that it is evaluated according to the distribution ∏j≠iqj The 
expectation is conditioned on player i making move xi. Eq. 
(2) shows that the probability of player i choosing pure 
strategy xi depends on the effect of that choice on the 
utilities of the other players. 
Now consider the case of maximal prior knowledge 
for the behavior of player i. Here the actual joint-strategy of 
the players and therefore all of their expected utilities are 
known. For this case, trivially, the maxent principle says the 
“estimate” q is that joint-strategy (it being the q with 
maximal entropy that is consistent with the prior 
knowledge). The same conclusion holds if the prior 
knowledge also includes the expected utility of player i. 
 Removing player i’s strategy from this maximal prior 
knowledge leaves the mixed strategies of all players other 
than i, together with player i’s expected utility. Now the 
prior knowledge of the other players’ mixed strategies can 
be directly incorporated into a maxent Lagrangian for each 
player: 
).(])()([
)()]([
ii
j
ijjii
iiiiii
qSxgxqdx
qSgEL
−−=
−−≡
∫ ∏εβ
εβ
 
 The solution is a set of coupled Boltzmann 
distributions: 
 
.)( ]|[)( iiiqi xgEii exq
βα −
        (3) 
 The first term in Li is minimized by a perfectly 
rational player. The second term is minimized by a perfectly 
irrational player, i.e., by a perfectly uniform mixed strategy 
qi. Thus βi in the maxent Lagrangian explicitly specifies the 
balance between the rational and irrational behavior of the 
player. When β → ∞, the set of q that simultaneously 
minimize the Lagrangians will recover the Nash equilibria 
of the game, which is the set of delta functions about the 
Nash equilibria. The same is true for Eq. (2); in fact, Eq. (2) 
is just a special case of Eq. (3), where all player’s share the 
same private utility, G. Such games are known as team 
games. This reflects the fact that for this case, the diﬀerence 
between the maxent Lagrangian and the one in Eq. (1) is 
independent of qi. Due to this relationship, the guarantee of 
the existence of a solution to the set of maxent Lagrangians 
implies the existence of a solution of the form for Eq. (2). 
2.2. Formulation of Optimization Problems 
Given that the agents in a MAS are bounded rational, 
if they play a team game with world utility G, their 
equilibrium will be the optimizer of G. Furthermore, if 
constraints are included, the equilibrium will be the 
optimizer of G subject to the constraints. The equilibrium 
can be found by minimizing the Lagrangian in Eq. (1) 
where the prior information set is empty, e.g. for all i, εi = 
{0}. 
Specifically for the unconstrained optimization 
problem, 
)(min
→
xG
x
 
35
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011
  
contrast to this, here we propose to allow the agents to 
autonomously detect the environmental change ― once the 
agents learned that their original optimal strategies are no 
longer optimal in the environment, the agents then assume 
an environmental change has taken place and reset the 
temperature and/or the probability distributions.  
To compare the three versions of the PCMAS, we 
adopt a complex dynamic objective function. Furthermore, 
the study of search efficiency usually involves defining a 
performance measure that embodies the idea of rate of 
improvement, so that its change over time can be monitored 
for investigation. In many practical problems, a traditional 
performance metric is the “best-so-far” curve that plots the 
value of the best solution that has been seen located thus far 
by the algorithm, i.e., a solution in the search space that 
optimizes the objective function thus far [10],[11].  
3.1. Dynamic Ackley Path Function 
 In studying how strong the system changing is and 
how severe this change is going to constrain the search of 
an algorithm, Angeline [12] reported a study of dynamic 
problems with a linear mode of severity of changes. The 
testbed we use here is the dynamic Ackley path function in 
[13], which can be described by: 
 
( ) ( ) 1cos
2
1
2
eaeaeXf N
cX
N
X
b i i
i i
++
∑
−
∑
−=
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
−
, 
 
where X = [X1 ... Xn
T] , Xi = xi + δ(t), a = 20, b = 0.2, c = 2π, 
−32.768 ≤ ix ≤ 32.768 for 1 ≤ i ≤ N, and δ(t) is the 
parameter that introduces the dynamics into the problem. 
Here we study the linear dynamical mode: 
 
δ(0) = 0,  
     δ(Td) = δ(Td −1) + s,          (5) 
 
where s is the parameter that determines the severity of 
changes. Note that Td is used as index for the environmental 
state; whenever the environment changes (e.g., every 5000 
function evaluations, which is used in this paper), Td is 
increased by 1. The problem we use here for illustration is 
10 dimensional (N = 10); thus the PCMAS will designate 
ten agents to search the optimum. Figure 2 provides a visual 
gist of a dynamic version of the function using Eq. (5) in a 
lower 2-dimensional form. The surface is overall a single 
deep well with a locally rough surface. For easy viewing of 
the details the figure is enlarged, showing the region in the 
neighborhood of the minimum. Due to the many local 
optima in the search space, one expects that the agents of 
the PCMAS may get trapped easily in any of them.  
 In the following example the optimization free 
parameters for the PCMAS were set as follows: step size α 
= 0.2, data-ageing rate γ = 0.5, cooling rate δT/T = 0.01. 
Gaussian kernel width τ was set to 1% of the range of the 
search parameter, and T = 0.1 was a sufficiently high 
starting temperature. Monte-Calro block sizes of 100 was 
examined. The dynamic parameter Td was set to be 
increased by 1 every 5000 function evaluations, which was 
used as the index for the environmental state changes. 
 
Figure 2. Surface plot of the dynamic Ackley Function 
   
 
Figure 3. Performance comparison of various PCMAS schemes on 
dynamic Ackley function for severity = 0.1 
Fig. 3 and 4 display the averaged best-so-far values 
over 100 runs attained by the PCMAS versus the number of 
function evaluations of the testbed for severity = 0.1 and 
0.5, respectively. The vertical bars are the 95% confidence 
intervals about the means. For the purpose of performance 
comparison, we investigate the descent rate of the 
optimization trajectories (i.e., the best-so-far curves) and 
the long term optima-tracking performance for these 
PCMAS schemes. 
37
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011
  
Controlling the Balance between Exploration and 
Exploitation of the Search.” Proc. of The 2010 
Conference on Technologies and Applications of 
Artificial Intelligence, pp. 187–194, Hsin-Chu, 
Taiwan, Nov. 18-20, 2010. 
[11] C.-F. Huang, and B. R. Chang, “Probability 
Collectives Multi-agent Systems: A Study of 
Robustness in Search.” Lecture Notes in Artificial 
Intelligence (LNAI), 6422, pp. 334–343, Springer, 
Berlin, 2011. 
[12] P. J. Angeline, “Tracking extrema in dynamic 
environments,” Proc. 6th International Conf. on 
Evolutionary Programming VI, pp. 335–345, London, 
UK. Springer-Verlag, 1997. 
[13] D. H. Ackley, “A connectionist machine for genetic 
hill climbing,” Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston, 
1987.
 
39
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃健 計畫編號：99-2221-E-390-032- 
計畫名稱：使用生物啟發演算法建構最佳的動態投資專家系統 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100% 
一位碩士生已於
August/2011 順利
畢業 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
一篇研討會論文
獲得一個國際學
術 研 討 會 (The 
2nd 
International 
Conference on 
Computational 
Collective 
Intelligence –
Technology and 
Applications) 
之最佳論文獎。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
國外 
參與計畫人力 碩士生 0 0 100% 人次  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
自 2007 年金融海嘯重創美國，導致全球經濟衰退與股市崩盤而造成投資人蒙受資產的重
大損失。在危機發生至今四年期間，新的金融風險持續威脅全球而使得投資科學與金融管
理的研究及實務仍處處充滿挑戰。於投資科學之研究領域中，可行的定量模型包括使用人
工智慧之方法於財務時間序列資料的預測，投資報酬率之提升及風險降低的多目標最佳
化，資產管理等等。此中選股問題向來被視為極具挑戰性且重要的主題，主要工作包括可
靠地選擇相對優質的股票與產生成功的投資組合以期未來獲得良好的報酬率。 
    在本計畫中，我們藉助於機器學習之模型而提出一個有效的方法以解決選股的問題。
我們運用的方法包括支援向量回歸法(Support Vector Regression, SVR)、遺傳演算法
(Genetic Algorithms, GA)與模糊理論。可行的實現步驟包括先透過 SVR 對股票收益進行
預測，再依據預測結果進行排序以選擇優良的股票作為投資標的。此外，我們融入模糊理
論的方法來調整模型的輸入及輸出變數以更進一步改良選股的效能。同時我們運用遺傳演
算法對模型的參數與財務指標之組合進行最佳化。 
    在本計畫專題中，除了發展有效的選股模型，實際的應用主要分為兩個部分: 傳統的
基本面指標及投資人的心理指標。由於現今股票市場上大部分的投資者會根據基本面指標
(例如：本益比、股價淨值比、資產報酬率…等)來做為一家公司的股價在未來是否上漲或
下跌的判斷工具。因此，本研究針對基本指標與我們所發展的選股策略來探討其所建構出
來的選股模型是否能有效打敗大盤，使投資者獲得超額的報酬率。另外，由於金融市場的
參與者是人，過去已有許多研究針對投資人的心理因素來探討是否影響股市的變化。因此
