中文摘要 
微陽極導引電鍍是本研究室開發之新穎的微製造技術，不須無塵室設備，即可製作出
微米尺度的金屬結構。在此製程中，使用一直徑為125μm 之白金絲作為微陽極，架設於一
微步進平台上。經由控制微步進馬達來控制平台上的微揚極，使其進行間歇式移動，藉由
微陽極移動之軌跡來引導金屬微結構的成長。本年度計畫，目的在此製程中，增設影像觀
測系統，以玆臨場觀察微電鍍過程析鍍物微結構之變遷。除了上述影像即時觀察外，在此
系統中增加一微細參考電極，用以即時檢測電鍍局部的電位變化。即時局部電位監測系統，
配合臨場影像觀察，加上影像處理技術，將有助於微電鍍技術之發展。本計畫之成果，有
助於微電鍍機制之解析，憑藉本計畫所建立之技術，有利於建構出微電鍍沈積模型及微電
鍍局部沈積之機制。 
 
關鍵字：微製造，微陽極導引電鍍，電化學監測，即時影像監測.  
 
 
英文摘要 
The micro anode guided electroplating (MAGE) is a novel process patented by this group. It 
is an economic technology to fabricate metallic microstructures without a setup of clean room.  
In the MAGE process, a micro anode of platinum (125µm in diameter) was controlled by a 
stepping motor to move in intermittent mode. The micro anode ascends and guides the deposit of 
the micro electrochemical deposition. The purpose of this work is to establish an in-situ monitor 
to observe the real-time development in the process of micro electrochemical deposition. In 
addition, a micro scale reference electrode is equipped to determine the variation of the potential 
at the localization undergoing micro deposition. The assembly of a set of real time in-situ 
monitoring system combined a CCD camera with a micro reference electrode accomplished in 
this project is useful in exploration the mechanism of micro electroplating performed by the 
MAGE process. The realization in the mechanism of micro electrochemical deposition is useful 
to effective manipulation of this technology.  
 
Keypoint : micro fabrication, micro anode guided electroplating (MAGE), electrochemical, 
images monitor.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
徑5～15µm，再以環氧樹酯絕緣披覆僅露出底部圓形之平面，並將陰、陽兩極置於電鍍液
內，施加電鍍電源，微鎳結構即在陰極基材上局部析鍍成型，製做出微米尺寸的鎳柱及彈
簧等微小元件。Hunter 的研究結果顯示：當兩極間距等於陽極直徑時，以有限元素法
（Finite-element method）分析兩極間電場強度的分布情形，最強的電場發生在微小電極邊
緣；陽極若是等速上升可在陰極鍍出微米大小的鎳柱和螺旋狀三次元微小的元件。在Hunter
率先提出後『局部電化學沉積』的概念後，國內外有許多學者相繼投入其相關製程研究。 
1997 年，El-Giar [8] 利用SECM(Scanning-chemical microscope)的設備，以直徑25µm 的鉑
絲微陽極在銅基材上製作出微銅柱。2000 年，R. A. Said [9]也在銅基材上製作出銅柱，利
用有限元素法模擬分析微結構沉積之形貌模型。2002 年，S. H. Yeo [10, 11] 研究超音波震
動以及電極的旋轉對於微鎳柱成長的影響。2004 年，J. H. Je[12]以連續方式進行局部電化
學沈積微米銅柱，並利用X光顯微技術直接監測了解兩極間距低於35µm 沉積速率增加並產
生多孔組織。2005 年，本研究室開發 [7] MAGE(Micro anode guidedelectroplating)製程，以
連續和間歇方式析鍍微鎳柱結構，研究改變電鍍參數並能有效的控制鎳微柱的析鍍結構。 
2005 年，學者C. S. Lin[13] 研究步進析鍍產生的節狀結構及微柱的緻密程度對於銅微柱機
械性質的影響。2007 年，本研究室繼續利用MAGE(Micro anode guidedelectroplating)製程
[14]，摘錄本年度部份之研究成果，發表論文探討鎳金屬微柱在進行微電鍍時其質傳與沈積
形貌組織的影響。 
 
四. 研究方法 
4.1 微陽極導引電鍍實驗 
整體之實驗裝置如圖一所示。此實驗方法又稱為微陽極導引電鍍(Micro Anode Guided 
Electroplating，MAGE)，是根據微動定點電鍍的觀念衍生而來。第一步驟尋找相對位置零
點，陽極接觸陰極由電源供應器施加微小偏壓(0.1V) ，平台以緩慢的速度下降(1um/s)，為
了避免陽極在接觸陰極的過程中產生彎曲、變形，在實驗上搭配CCD影像擷取裝置與電流
擷取表同步監測兩極接觸的情形。此外，也搭配恆電位儀系統利用參考電極進行相關電化
學之量測，如圖二所示。當兩極相互接觸形成短路，而電流擷取表產生超過10mA 的電流
值，即停止步進馬達的移動。第二步驟倒入硫酸銅200g/l，硫酸65g/l，鹽酸1ml 的電鍍液，
陽極上升至設定的高度，打開電源供應器施加電鍍偏壓而金屬在兩極間還原，等待陰極沈
積物逐漸成長直到接觸陽極時，形成短路即切斷電鍍電源，此時陽極由外部控制器設定上
升距離，再開始另一階段電鍍，如此動作反覆進行，故將其稱為『間歇微電鍍法』。 
 
4.2 電化學量測實驗  
 
4.2.1 陰極極化曲線圖: 
在進行陰極極化曲線掃描前先在銅基底上析鍍高度1000µm 之微銅柱後，再上升陽極
使陰陽兩極相距200µm(若兩極間距太近，則有燒壞恆電位儀之危險)，以掃描速率每秒1mV 
由0V 往負電位掃描至-3.5V。利用陰極極化曲線來說明微電鍍時各電位下所發生之反應。 
 
五. 結果與討論 
H+ + Hads + e- → H2 
Cu2+ + 2e- → Cu 銅與氫同時生成 
 
六. 結論 
1. 在MAGE製程上，利用CCD即時影像監控及電化學量測可以即時的觀察微柱的成長與發
生的反應，可以有效的控制製程參數而得到最佳化製程參數。在微電鍍銅製程上最佳化
參數為偏壓使用3.0V，兩極間距10µm，在此條件下有較佳的沈積速率與沈積結構。 
2. 此一監測系統的建立，可幫助瞭解在不同電位下，微電鍍銅結構之反應機制 : 
a.兩極偏壓-0.615~-0.773V: 
Cu2+ + 2e- → Cu 活性極化 
b.兩極偏壓-0.773~-1.1V: 
Cu2+ + 2e- → Cu 濃度極化 
c.兩極偏壓-1.1~-3.5V: 
H+ + e- → Hads 
H+ + Hads + e- → H2 
Cu2+ + 2e- → Cu 銅與氫同時生成 
3. 參與人員除了在微製程技術、鍍液調配、學到製程技術與實際操作經驗之外，將能同時
學到材料性質分析及儀器設備建立的技術，將來投入工業界，即可學以致用，貢獻所學。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖二 電化學量測裝置圖 
圖一 MAGE實驗裝置圖
圖三 間距10µm 條件下析鍍之微銅柱SEM，析鍍偏壓(a)2.6V，(b)3.0V，(c)3.2V
(a) (b) (c) 
100µm 100µm 100µm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖八 硫酸銅鍍液中進行微電鍍之陰極極化曲線 
（a） 
圖七 CCD 影像圖(a)陽極定位監控，（b）2D 微結構連續成長影像圖，及(c) 微
電鍍進行時陽極氧氣泡產生圖 
（b）
（c） 
I 
II 
III 
出席國際學術會議心得報告  
計畫編號  NSC 95-2221- E – 008 -023 
計畫名稱  微陽極導引即時監測電鍍法製作微鎳柱之研究 
出國人員姓名  
服務機關及職稱  國立中央大學機械工程所 林景崎 教授  
會議時間地點  09.24.2007~09.29.2006 日 本 長 崎 (IOUJIMA 
Hotel)  
會議名稱  
(中文) 第六屆歐亞電漿表面工程會議 
(英文)6thAsian-European International 
Conference on Plasma Surface Engineering 
發表論文題目  
(２篇)  
(中文)氧化鋅摻雜鋁鈧/AZO 和 AZO/氧化鋅
摻雜鋁鈧雙層鍍膜結構特性的探討 
(英文)(oral)Characterization of the single and 
double films consisting of Al, Sc-codoped ZnO 
/Al-doped ZnO and Al-doped ZnO 
/Al,Sc-codoped ZnO 
(中文)以RF與DC濺鍍系統對氧化鋅及不同比
例鋁鈧合金靶材 (x=0，0.4，0.8 ，1.7 wt%)
製備氧化鋅摻雜鋁鈧合金之導電薄膜 
(英文)(poster)Deposition of Al-doped and Al, 
Sc-codoped zinc oxide films from the targets of 
ZnO and Al-xSc (x=0, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.7 wt%) 
sputtered by RF and DC  
 
一、參加會議經過 
    參加第六屆歐亞電漿表面工程會議，6th Asian-European International Conference on Plasma 
Surface Engineering，此會議由 1.亞洲電漿與表面工程聯合委員會(Asian Joint Committee on Plasma 
Surface Engineering；2.歐洲電漿與表面工程聯合委員會(European Joint Committee on Plasma and Ion 
Surface Engineering 以及 3.日本長崎大學(Nagasaki University, Japan)聯合舉辦，於 2007 年 9 月 24 日至
9月 29 日於，假日本長崎伊王島(IOUJIMA)盛大舉行。內容主要探討電漿在材料表面工程運用及理論
的發展，共有將近三百七十餘篇的文章在會議中發表，共分成 Oral 與 Poster 兩個 Session 同步舉
行。在眾多 Oral Session，於 Session 19 (Functional Oxide Films)，以口頭發表之形式發表本人
之論文；另於 Poster Session 3 中張貼海報，發表期間並與該領域之專家學者進行討論，收穫良多。 
九月二十四日由桃園國際機場搭乘長榮航空客機 BR2106 直飛日本福岡機場，經過一個半小時短
程飛行於日本當地時間十點二十分降落日本福岡國際機場，於福岡國際機場入關後即搭九州號長途巴
士到長崎下榻於會場附近之東橫-INN 旅館。此行與明志科技大學材料系謝章興教授及程志賢教授、
國立虎尾科技大學蔡丕椿教授、明道管理學院材料系張奇隆教授與學生職共約 15 人，於當日下午四
點左右抵達 6th Asian-European International Conference on Plasma Surface Engineering 的會
場報到當晚並參加該會議舉辦之歡迎晚宴。 
會場設於長崎市外的離島島伊王島中之飯店會議中心，參加會議期間每天往返必須從長崎市搭船
到達會場，會場內所提供之設施均配備相當齊全。此次與會的人數約有八百人；其會議主題包括：
1.Protective, tribological and functional coatings；2. Functional coatings for Electronics；
3. Plasma processing and surface treatment 4.Advanced plasma sources and diagnostics； 
與會心得 
    出席本次會議為第六屆歐亞電獎表面工程會議(6thAsian-European International Conference on 
Plasma Surface Engineering)材料領域國際型大會議，本研討會參加發表人數約800人，屬大型研討會主
要國家為台灣、中國、印度、日本及新加坡為主，台灣出席人次達40人，研究單位除工研院、學術單
位有明志科技大學謝章興教授、明道管理學院張奇隆教授、虎尾科技大學蔡丕椿教授等，台灣參加人
數在亞洲國家僅次於日本及中國。然而，若就論文內容來說，國內的研究趨勢主要在應用技術上面，有
些較深入的學術領域或理論探討則涉獵較少，此一部分之成就卻往往是技術突破之關鍵所在，若國內能鼓
勵部份的理論學術研究人才來結合應用技術研究人才，通力合作去完成前瞻性之整合計畫，成效將會更好。  
    參加 POSTER 在會場上座位容量大約 20-25 人，比聖地牙哥一場最少容納有 100-150 人座位的規
模小很多，因排在最後二天的下午人數上還算多人，大約超過 150 人。此次會議亦吸引鍍膜大師 MUSIL
當場仔細詢問相互交流。 
   此次會議邀請相當多在電漿學界十分著名的國際級大師參與，在參與會議期間，仔細聆聽各國學
者之研究成果發表，對學生日後在研究工作及思考上有相當大的裨益。此外，於與會期間，與各國
先進的學術交流，亦是幫助學生開拓國際觀與研究領域之關鍵。此趟日本長崎之旅，除了開拓視野，
也讓我更實際體會到國際從事研究之人員積極嚴謹的態度，我想這是國內各大研究單位應該注意並
深省的一點。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Surface and transverse morphology of micrometer nickel columns
simpler process, lower cost, easier to reproduce, lower material
consumption and pollution-reducing) than other techniques to
build microfeatures.
Many efforts have been made to improve the quality
of microdeposits since the LECD technique was invented
a decade ago. The parameters of major interest are the
electric bias and gap between the tip of the microanode
and the top of the microfeatures. Seol and others [8, 9]
applied the microradiology with coherent x-rays to examine
the LECD process in real time. They discovered a fundamental
role of the microelectrode-structure distance and proposed a
qualitative interpretation for the interplay between metal-ion
diffusion and migration in the deposition process. El-Giar
and others [10] studied the LECD of copper microstructures
and found the electrical potential, the concentration of the
copper sulfate, and the presence of organic additives affects
the microstructure of the deposits and the current efficiency
of the process. The withdrawal velocity of the microanode
in the LECD process was found to play a major role in the
process repeatability, deposit characteristics and geometric
confinement of the high aspect ratio microstructures [11].
Lin and his coworkers [12] developed a deposition-detection-
withdrawal control method to grow the microcolumn with
improved geometry confinement and internal integrity. They
also concluded that both the nodular structure and voids
affect the apparent Young’s modulus of the microcolumn.
The growth behavior of nickel microcolumns was studied
[13]. It depended on the vertical traverse of the microanode
away from the horizontal copper substrate. Yeo and others
[14] reported that ultrasonic vibrations increased the rate of
deposition and improved the concentricity of the fabricated
microcolumns in the LECD process. Their later work
[15, 16] pointed out that the microcolumns deposited by
rotating the microanode in the LECD revealed annulus in
the cross sections. By later introducing an analog closed
loop feedback control to the electroplating system [17], they
achieved a constant rate to grow the microcolumns with
a better quality (i.e. with even morphology and controlled
dimensions.) On the other hand, some investigators proposed
models [18], verified by numerical simulation which utilized
electric field calculation by a boundary element method
and a progressive boundary update approach, to determine
evolving deposition profiles in the LECD process. The
simulation results were found to agree with the experimental
results. The resolution and surface smoothness of the
microstructures were improved by adding additives, such
as ammonia and ammonium formate, in the nickel plating
bath [19].
A literature survey revealed that almost all the researchers
had paid attention to the qualitative description of the
interplay between the mass transport and the electric field.
No investigation was reported dealing with a quantitative
discussion on the kinetics of the LECD process because
of the difficulty in kinetic measurements. In the present
work, we tried to discuss the quantitative kinetics by
measuring the electroplating current and the local potential
near the top of the deposited microcolumns in the process
LECD. The dependence of the surface morphology and
internal structure on the electroplating kinetics was also of
interest.
2. Experimental details
2.1. Preparation of microanode, cathode, reference
electrode and the setup of the MAGE
The microelectrode was prepared using a platinum wire
(125 µm in diameter) with one end welded with a copper
conducting wire. The Cu-welded Pt wire was held co-axially
in a bakelite tube (0.5 mm in diameter and 60 mm in length)
and fixed with epoxy resin to form a Pt-centric cylinder. The
Pt end of the cylinder was ground with a sequence of emery
papers (from 400 to 1200 grit) and wetly polished with 3.0 and
0.5 µm Al2O3 to expose a disk of a diameter of 125 µm by an
in situ charged coupled device (CCD, NAVITAR) microscope.
The cathode was made of a square (10 mm × 10 mm ×
1 mm) of electrolytic pure copper with its back welded to
the copper wire in connection with the power supply. This
copper square was mounted with epoxy resin to expose a
horizontal surface which was wet ground with emery papers
and polished with alumina paste to ensure a mirror surface
before electroplating.
A third electrode was employed to measure the potential
at where the localized electrochemical deposition occurred.
It was a microelectrode with a tip made of a glass capillary
(diameter in 200–300 µm) drawn from a heated glass tube
(with diameter in 1 mm). The capillary was connected with
flexible silicone tubing (filled with a saturated KCl solution)
in connection with a saturated calomel electrode (SCE).
The microelectrode tip was plugged with agar gel that was
previously filled at an elevated temperature in a soluble form
made of the saturated KCl solution. The microelectrode was
calibrated with the SCE every time before its measurement to
ensure its ability to act as a reference electrode. The potentials
reported in this work were against the SCE, and they were
expressed versus the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE) in a
theoretical calculation. The accuracy for the measurements of
the local potential was controlled to an error of ±0.5 mV.
The electrolytic cell (50 mm × 50 mm × 60 mm) was
made of polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA). The Watts bath
[20] (NiSO4·6H2O: 330 kg m−3, NiCl2·6H2O: 45 kg m−3,
H3BO3: 37 kg m−3) was filled in the cell that was
thermostatically controlled at 55 ± 1 ◦C to conduct the
electroplating. The pH of the bath was from 3.4 to 3.6.
Figure 1 depicts the scheme of an experimental setup
for depositing localized electrochemical microfeatures that
are guided by the microanode ascending in an intermittent
motion mode from the cathode. The microanode was driven
to move by a step motor through an interface controlled by a
computer, and the electroplating current was measured using
a galvanometer [5]. In addition, we set up a microelectrode,
coupled with the saturated calomel electrode in connection
with a potentiostat (Princeton EG&G Model 273 A), to oversee
the potential at the location where the LECD proceeded.
At least three runs had been carried out, and the standard
deviation was presented in the error bar. Before setting out
the deposition, the open-circuit potential was recorded (i.e. at
−491.0 mV versus the SCE). The microanode was descended
to touch the cathode, then drawn back to keep an initial
gap at 10 µm. In the intermittent LECD process, the gap
diminished with time because of the growth of deposits. At
the moment when the deposit almost touched the microanode,
2337
Surface and transverse morphology of micrometer nickel columns
Figure 3. A plot of open-circuit potential and local potentials
against the electrical bias employed in the MAGE with the initial
gap at 10 µm between the electrodes.
of the columns deposited at 3.2 V (figure 2(a)). Less compact
were the columns, with porosity in the center of their transverse
(figure 2(c)), deposited at little higher biases (for example,
3.6 V). The compactness was much less for the columns
(figure 2(c)) deposited at much higher biases (for example,
4.4 V), because of radial expansion of the porosity from the
transverse center resulting from coarsening and combination
of the voids. The interior of the transverse was almost empty
and remained a coral shell for the columns fabricated at an
extremely high bias (i.e. 4.6V). The deposit looked like a
branched coral with a hollow interior.
3.2. Measurements of local potentials at the LECD location
Figure 3 depicts a plot of the local potential against the
electrical bias employed by the MAGE in the LECD process.
The potential was initially at −491.0 mV (under an open-
circuit condition) before electroplating, and it suddenly
dropped to various levels in a couple of tenths of a second
once the electroplating began. The level of the local potentials
decreased (in the range from −550.0 to −635.0 mV) when
increasing the electrical biases from 3.2 to 4.6 V. We were
interested in the difference between the open-circuit potential
and local potential measured under various electrical biases.
The potential difference is much greater (i.e. 144.0 ± 1.0 mV)
for the MAGE conducted at higher biases (for example, 4.6 V)
than that (59.0 ± 1.0 mV) conducted at lower biases (for
example, 3.2 V). This implies that nickel ions consume much
more rapidly as the LECD is performed at higher electrical
biases.
3.3. Average growth rate estimated either by the duration to
grow columns 1000 µm in height or by average current
Figure 4 shows the dependence of the average growth rate
(in the right ordinate) on the electrical biases employed to
grow a micrometer Ni column, 1000 ± 10 µm in height. The
average growth rate was calculated by dividing the height of
the columns (i.e. 1000 ± 10 µm) by the growth duration.
The time taken by the step motor should be deducted from
the total duration of the process. From figure 4, the average
Figure 4. A plot of the average current and average growth rate for
the columns against the electrical bias employed in the MAGE.
growth rate at 3.2 V is about 0.114 µm s−1. It increases from
0.114 ± 0.004 to 1.76 ± 0.06 µm s−1 when increasing the
bias from 3.2 to 4.6 V. The standard deviation increases with
an increase of electrical bias. It was of no interest that the bias
was either less than 3.2 V or higher than 4.6 V, because of
the impractical tiny rate in the former case and unsatisfactory
morphology for the deposits obtained in the latter.
Also in figure 4, the average current in the LECD process
was measured and plotted (in the left ordinate) against the
electrical biases. It increases from 0.225 ± 0.021 to 1.881 ±
0.046 mA when increasing the bias from 3.2 to 4.6 V. The
average current is almost ninefold for the MAGE conducted at
4.6 V in comparison to that at 3.2 V. Checking the error bars
in figure 4, we found that the standard deviation increases
with increasing electrical biases. This implies that the
extent and variation of the plating current resulting from the
electrochemical reaction are much greater at higher biases.
The growth rate estimated from the data of average current
agrees with that evaluated from column height divided by the
electroplating duration.
4. Discussion
4.1. Calculation on the concentration of nickel ions in the
location after the LECD
As is shown in figure 3, the stabilized local potential was
in the range from −550 to −635 mV for the LECD process
conducted at biases ranging from 3.2 to 4.6 V (versus the SCE).
The concentration of nickel ions at the local site where the
LECD takes place could be estimated by the Nernst equation
shown in the following:
E = E0 + RT
νeF
ln{cox/cRed}, (4.1)
where E0 is the standard potential of the electrode, R is the gas
constant, F is Faraday’s constant, T is the absolute temperature
and Cox and CRed are the concentrations of oxidation species
and reduction species, respectively.
By substituting E0 with −0.25 V (i.e. the standard EMF
for 1.0 M nickel ions [21]), T with 328 K (55 ◦C), R with
2339
Surface and transverse morphology of micrometer nickel columns
(a) (b)
Figure 6. Schematic models to illustrate the region involving mass transportation of nickel ions caused by (a) migration and
(b) diffusion.
(This figure is in colour only in the electronic version)
in the SEM micrograph, we obtain the fluxes of nickel ions
contributed by migration and diffusion separately as follows:
J3.2 V mig = − 2 × 96 4878.314 × 328 K × 8.157 × 10
−6
× 0.015 30 mol L−1 × 3.2 V/10 µm (4.9)
J3.2 Vdif = −8.157 × 10−6 cm2 s−1
× (1.445 − 0.015 30) mol L
−1
36.1 µm
. (4.10)
From equation (4.6), we can estimate the total transport using
equation (4.11):
Transport ratetotal = Jdif · Adif + Jmig · Amig
= 2.77 × 10−9 mol s−1. (4.11)
The same treatment can be used to calculate the corresponding
transport rate for the LECD performed under other electrical
biases. The average supplying rates calculated from
equation (4.11) are plotted with the electrical biases, as is
shown in figure 8.
4.3. Calculation for the consumption of nickel ions and
related current efficiency
Figure 7 displays the plot of average current measured at a
steady state in the LECD and the current efficiency against
the electrical bias employed. It is seen in figure 7 that the
average current increases from 0.2 to 1.8 mA, whereas the
current efficiency decreases from 53 to 23% with increasing
biases in the range from 3.2 to 4.6 V. The standard deviation
of the average current also increases with the electrical biases.
Observation suggested that the increase in average current
is proportional to the augmenting in the growing rate of
columns. The decrease in the current efficiency responds to
the phenomenon that bubbles evolve much more generously
when increasing the biases. This enlargement in bubbles’
evolution implies that reducing hydrogen ions contribute
much more than nickel ions. The higher standard deviation
in the average current at higher corresponding biases reflects
the greater variation in the diameter of the columns and in the
roughness of their surface morphology.
Figure 7. The average current measured in the LECD and the
current efficiency plotted against the electrical bias employed.
Figure 8. A plot of the transport rate for supplying nickel ions to the
local region after the LECD and their consumption rate in the region
experiencing the LECD against the electrical bias employed.
The weight of a single micrometer column is so slight
and beyond the detection limit of a usual balance. Three
columns fabricated under the same conditions were gathered
to overcome this difficulty; thus, an average weight for a
single column could be estimated (Westimated by weighing). The
current efficiency (η) for the LECD conducted under specific
2341
