single link failure. These studies can be classified into
two categories: the (non-joint) spare capacity place-
ment (SCP) problem [6, 7, 8, 9] and the joint capacity
placement (JCP) problem [6, 7]. For the SCP prob-
lem, given a set of working paths, the goal is to find
a set of FIPP p-cycles with minimal capacities to pro-
tect it. For the JCP problem, given a set of connec-
tion requests, the goal is to find the working path for
each connection request and a set of FIPP p-cycles to
protect it such that the total capacities can be min-
imized. In [12], the FIPP p-cycles scheme has been
used as a restoration mechanism that provides failure-
independent, end-to-end path protection to a set of
given demands under a single link or node failure.
The preconfigured cycles were referred as Preconfig-
ured Virtual Cycles (PVCs) in [12] and a design algo-
rithm (named as FIPP-PVCs) was proposed. A GA-
ILP framework for near-optimal FIPP p-cycle network
designs can be found in [13].
1.3 NEPC
The NEPC protecting scheme is designed for protec-
tion of transiting flows through the node by containing
all its immediate neighbor-nodes but not the protected
node itself [4]. If a node fails, any working paths fully
transiting the node (i.e., those that pass through but
do not originate or terminate at the failed node) must
therefore pass through at least two other nodes on the
NEPC as well. If that is the case, then the NEPC is
able to provide two restoration paths for that affected
path by cross-connecting those two nodes on the cycle.
Thus, the pre-configured spare capacity of NEPC can
be used to build the path from one node to the other
on the cycle and around the failure.
In [14], authors have proposed a novel algo-
rithm called the Local-map Cycles Mining Algorithm
(LCMA), which can be used to find good efficient sim-
ple candidate p-cycles in WDM mesh networks. The
LCMA can find not only simple node-encircling p-
cycles but also link p-cycles. In [3], authors have pro-
posed a novel algorithm called the Node-encircling p-
Cycles Mining Algorithm (NCMA), which can be used
to find good candidate node-encircling candidate p-
cycles of a central node in the WDM mesh networks.
1.4 Backup Reprovisioning
Several studies have dealt with the simultaneous
multiple-link failures, especially double-link failures on
WDM networks [14, 15]. They focused on design-
ing special protection methods so that the working
paths can survive when multiple-link failures occurred.
As networks grow in size and complexity, both the
probability and the impact of failures increase. For
the protection method which only considered a single-
link (or single-node) failure, the pre-allocated backup
bandwidth may not provide 100% protection guaran-
tee when multiple-link (or multiple-node) failures oc-
cur in a network.
Recently, reprovisioning new backups for working
paths to combat the effect of multiple concurrent fail-
ures (where concurrent means that a new failure oc-
curs before a previous failure is repaired) is the goal
of backup reprovisioning (BR) [16]. Backup reprovi-
sioning can be performed whenever the network state
changes to utilize resource more efficiently or to recover
quickly from the previous failure. This new procedure
promises to effectively address two key requirements
for protection strategy: first, high (and desirable) re-
source efficiency and, second, the capability to recover
from multiple failures [16].
When a failure occurs, the traffic through the af-
fected node is switched to backups. To protect light-
paths against next potential failure, new backups are
provided for the paths that become unprotected or vul-
nerable because of losing their primary or their backup
due to the previous failure or due to backup resource
sharing. This approach is called Minimal Backup Re-
provisioning (MBR). An alternative approach is to
globally rearrange backups for all lightpaths after one
failure occurs, which is called Global Backup Reprovi-
sioning (GBR) [16, 17]. For GBR problem, in general,
ILP-based approaches are used [16, 17]. The numerical
results show that [16, 17], using MBR, the connection
vulnerability can be significantly reduced even when
the network is heavily loaded. And for the capacity
requirement and computational complexity of MBR
to that of GBR through numerical examples, MBR
demonstrates a good tradeoff between complexity and
capacity efficiency to handle multiple concurrent fail-
ures.
Recently, several authors has studied different
backup reprovisioning techniques able to further re-
duce the capacity requirements exploiting the knowl-
edge, among the other service level specifications
(SLSs), of the connection holding time [18]. The
backup reprovisioning problem has been studied for
shared backup path protection (SBPP) [17, 20, 21]
and span p-cycles protecting schemes for the link fail-
ure case. In [19], the backup reprovisioning problem
has been studied for shared risk link group (SRLG)
failures in WDM mesh networks. In [27], the backup
reprovisioning problem has been studied for the link
failure in WDM network with FIPP p-cycle protec-
tion scheme. Since FIPP p-cycles scheme can be used
to protect node-disjoint links and node failure case is
harder than the link-failure case.
1.5 Our Contributions
In this paper, we consider the MBR problem on WDM
networks with FIPP p-cycles and NEPCs protection.
A comprehensive study is carried out for backup re-
provisioning against multiple-node (especially double-
node) failures. For each protecting scheme, a reprovi-
2
3 MBR for FIPP Scheme
When node vf fails, the recovering procedure is per-
formed to recover the affected paths. In the recovering
procedure, if path Pk is affected by the node failure,
first, the primary path is switched to the backup path
BPk which is provided by the protecting FIPP p-cycle.
After recovering, the FIPP p-cycle may lose its pro-
tecting capability and those paths originally protected
by the FIPP p-cycle and the backup path BPk are
vulnerable now. If a node failure occurs again, these
paths cannot be protected. In backup reprovisioning,
not only the affected working paths are recovered by
current FIPP p-cycles, the protecting capabilities of
affected FIPP p-cycles are also recovered and working
paths can be survived at the sequent node failure such
that total capacities can be minimized.
3.1 Cases of Failure
In this subsection, working paths together with the
FIPP p-cycles affected by the node failure can be clas-
sified into four cases and described as follows.
• End-node failure: The failed node is the source
(or destination) node of the working paths, these
working paths cannot be recovered. Consider the
example shown in Figure 2(a), if node 6 fails, the
working path 6-8-3 cannot be recovered and the
cycle 6-5-4-3-2-1-6 loses its protecting capabilities.
• Straddling-path failure: The failed node is an
interior node of the working path Pk, but not on
the protecting FIPP p-cycle Ci. Consider the ex-
ample shown in Figure 2(b), if node 7 fails, the
working path 2-7-6-5 fails and can be recovered
by the FIPP p-cycle 6-5-4-3-2-1-6. After recover-
ing, the backup path is 5-6-1-2 and the remaining
part of the cycle (denoted as Cremain) is 6-5-4-3-2.
• On-cycle-path failure: The failed node is an
interior node of the working path Pk and also a
node on the protecting cycle. In this case, the
working path Pk can still be recovered by using
the remaining part of the FIPP p-cycle. Consider
the example shown in Figure 2(c), if node 6 fails,
the working path 1-6-5 and cycle 6-5-4-3-2-1-6 are
affected. Path 1-6-5 can be recovered by the re-
maining part of the cycle and the backup path is
1-2-3-4-5.
• Cycle failure : The failed node is on the cy-
cle but all paths protected by the cycle are unaf-
fected, then the cycle affected by the failure will
lose its protecting capabilities. Consider the ex-
ample shown in Figure 2(d), if node 1 fails, the cy-
cle 6-5-4-3-2-1-6 cannot be used to protect work-
ing paths.
Figure 2: (a) End-node failure, (b) straddling-path
failure, (c) on-cycle-path failure, (d) cycle failure.
3.2 Preprocessing
In this subsection, the details of the proposed algo-
rithm Preprocessing Algorithm are described. Initially,
the physical network, working paths, and FIPP p-
cycles are known and fixed. For each working path,
the backup is provided by a single FIPP p-cycle with
enough resources. When node vf fails, node vf and
the links in E(vf ) are removed from G to form a new
network G′(V \{vf}, E \E(vf )). If path Pk is affected
by the node failure, the default path BPk on FIPP p-
cycle is used to recover the affected working path. To
provide backup reprovisioning, first, an empty set P f
is constructed. Then, for each path (say Pk) together
with the protecting cycle (say Ci), the respective case
described in previous subsection is checked and ap-
plied.
To reduce the total capacities used for protecting all
paths in P f , cycles in the current FC are examined
first for whether they can be used to protect paths in
P f . For each working path Pk in P f , for each existing
cycle Cj in FC, if path Pk is node-disjoint to all paths
in PoCj , then cycle Cj can be used to protect path
Pk and PoCj is updated by uniting path Pk. And
then path Pk is removed from P f . This process is
repeated performed until no cycle in FC can be found
to protected path in P f . Then, for all unprotected
paths in P f , the Genetic Algorithm is performed to
find new FIPP p-cycles to protect them.
The details of the Preprocessing Algorithm are
shown in Algorithm 2.
3.3 FIPP backup reprovisioning algo-
rithm
In this subsection, the details of the proposed algo-
rithm FIPP Backup Reprovisioning Algorithm are de-
scribed.
3.3.1 FIPP Backup Reprovisioning Algorithm
For the given physical network, the set of working
paths, and FIPP p-cycles are fixed and known. For
each working path in the network, there is a single
FIPP p-cycle with enough resources can provide a de-
fault backup path for it. If node vf fails, node vf
and edges in E(vf ) are removed from G to form the
4
Algorithm 4 case (2) Straddling-path failure:
1: Let PoCi be the set of paths which are protected by the cycle Ci other
than the path Pk.
2: Find a new path Pnew from vsk to vdk on G′, which is node-disjoint to
all paths in PoCi.
3: if (Pnew can be found) then
4: Use Pnew as the new working paths.
5: Use BPk to recover the original FIPP p-cycle Ci for protecting path
Pnew and paths in PoCi.
6: else
7: Find a new path Pnew from vsk to vdk on G′ as a new working path.
8: if (Pnew can be found) then
9: Put Pnew to Pf .//cannot protected by the Ci
10: Use BPk to recover the original cycle Ci to protect paths in PoCi.
11: else
12: Remove cycle Ci from FC.
13: Release resource of Cremain and find a whole new cycle Cnew to
protect path BPk and paths in PoCi.
14: if (cycle Cnew can be found) then
15: Add cycle Cnew to FC.
16: else
17: Put all paths in PoCi and path BPk to Pf for further considera-
tion.
18: end if
19: end if
20: end if
3.3.4 On-cycle-path failure
For the case of on-cycle-path failure, the working path
and the cycle are affected by the node-failure simul-
taneously. In this case, after recovering the path, the
backup path is unprotected and the protecting capa-
bilities of the cycle Ci is also lost. Moreover, working
paths originally protected by the affected cycle are vul-
nerable now.
Obviously, the cycle Ci cannot be recovered by using
original remains, the cycle is removed from FC. First,
find a new path Pnew from vsk to vdk as a new working
path for Pk, where Pnew should be node-disjoint to all
other paths in PoCi. If path Pnew cannot be found,
resources of Cremain are released and all paths in PoCi
are added to P f for further consideration. If path Pnew
can be found, the path Pnew is used as the new working
path and BPk is restored to Cremain.
Second, let vsr and vdr be the source and destination
node of Cremain. A new path P ′new from vsr to vdr and
with node-disjoint to path Cremain is found to form
a new cycle Cnew (which is formed by combine path
P ′new and Cremain), and then Cnew is added to FC.
Otherwise, the resources of Cremain are released, and
then a whole new cycle is found to protect paths in
PoCi and path Pnew. If cycle Cnew can be found, add
the cycle to FC, otherwise all paths in PoCi are added
to P f for further consideration.
3.4 Cycle recovery algorithm
Affected cycle is recovered by performing Cycle-
Recovery Algorithm. The basic idea of the Cycle-
Recovery Algorithm is that a new cycle is constructed
by joining the remaining part of the cycle (Cremain)
and a new path from vsr to vdr. If the new cycle can
be found and can be used to protected the paths in
PoCi, then return the cycle; otherwise, return false. If
the cycle cannot be recovered, then the affected work-
ing paths which protected by the original cycle are put
into the set P f for further consideration.
Algorithm 5 case (3) On-cycle-path failure:
1: Remove Ci from FC.
2: Find a new path Pnew from vsk to vdk, which is node-disjoint to all other
paths in PoCi.
3: if (Pnew can be found) then
4: Use path Pnew as the new working path and BPk is used to restore to
Cremain.
5: Let vsr and vdr be the source and destination nodes of Cremain, re-
spectively.
6: Find a new path P ′new from vsr to vdr , which is node-disjoint to path
Cremain.
7: if (path P ′new can be found) then
8: Combined P ′new and Cremain to form a new cycle Cnew .
9: Add Cnew to FC.
10: else
11: Release the resources of Cremain.
12: Find a whole new cycle Cnew to protect path Pnew and all working
paths in PoCi.
13: if (Cnew can be found) then
14: Add Cnew to FC.
15: else
16: Put path Pnew and paths in PoCi into Pf .
17: end if
18: end if
19: end if
20: Put path BPk and paths in PoCi into Pf .
Algorithm 6 Cycle Recovery Algorithm
1: Input: G′, vf , failed cycle Ci, PoCi;
2: Output: Cnew ;
3: Let Cremain be the remaining path of the cycle Ci after removing node
vf and edges in E(vf ).
4: Let vsr and vdr be the end-nodes of the path Cremain.
5: Find a new path Pnew from vsr to vdr on G′ which is node-disjoint to
Cremain.
6: if (Pnew can be found) then
7: Merge Cremain and path Pnew to form a new cycle Cnew .
8: Return Cnew .
9: else
10: Return FALSE.
11: end if
3.5 Cycle finding algorithm
In this subsection, the details of the Cycle Finding Al-
gorithm are described. The goal of the Cycle Finding
Algorithm is to find a set of FIPP p-cycles to protect
those unprotected paths in P f such that the backup
capacities can be minimized.
To reduce the total backup capacities used to pro-
tect working paths, current cycles in FC should be
checked first. To do this, for each working path Pk in
P f , each cycle Cj in FC is examined whether path Pk
is node-disjoint to all paths in PoCj . If the cycle Cj
can be found, then PoCj is updated by uniting path
Pk, and path Pk is removed from P f . If all cycles in
the set of existing FIPP p-cycles cannot be used to pro-
tect path in P f , then paths in P f are partitioned into
several DRSs. To do this, initially, an individual DRS
is constructed for each path in P f and the set of DRSs
is denoted as DRSi, i=1, 2, ..., |P f |. Then, a bipar-
tite graph (termed Disjoint Graph) DG0(U0, V 0, E0)
is constructed. In the DG0, for each DRSi node ui
is constructed in the vertex sets U0 and V 0. The set
of edges of graph DG0(U0, V 0, E0) is constructed as
follows: if all paths in DRSi and all paths in DRSj
are mutually node-disjoint, then an edge is established
between nodes vi ∈ V 0 and vj ∈ U0 in E0.
Obviously, the subproblem can be formulated as a
maximal matching problem on bipartite graph which is
known as the assignment problem. Therefore, the fa-
mous Hitchcoch Algorithm [23] can be applied to find
6
Gene (CG). For each unprotected path Pk in P f , let
vsk and vdk be the source and destination nodes of the
path Pk, respectively. The PCG can be represented
as {PCG1, PCG2, ..., PCG|P f |}, where CPCGk (k=1,
2, ..., |P f |) is a cycle in NCk and the index of cy-
cle is in {1, 2, ..., NC}. The CG can be represented as
{CG1, CG2, ..., CG|P f |}, where CGk (k=1, 2, ..., |P f |)
means that the path Pk is protected by the CGk-th
copy of the protected cycle CPCGk .
4.2 Population Initialization
Let FCnew be the set of selected cycles which are used
to protected the vulnerable paths in P f . Initially,
FCnew is an empty set. Let zj represent the maxi-
mal copy of the cycle Cj ∈ NC, initially zj = 0, for j
=1, 2, ..., NC. For each copy of the selected cycle Cj ,
create a set PoCj,zy for storing those paths currently
protected by the zy-th (integer 1 ≤ zy ≤ zj) copy of
cycle Cj .
The population of the genetic algorithm is generated
by following steps: First, random selected an integer
k (1 ≤ k ≤ P f ). For the selected path Pk, a FIPP p-
cycle in NCk ∩FCnew is selected randomly to protect
it. This means that those cycles currently deployed are
selected first if possible. If FCnew∩NCk is nonempty,
then those cycles in FCnew ∩ NCk are selected first
and tested whether there is a cycle in FCnew ∩ NCk
can be used to protect the path Pk. It is worth noting
that path Pk can be protected by the zy-th (1 ≤ zy ≤
zj) copy of Cj only if path Pk is node-disjoint to all
paths in PoCj,zy of the zy-th copy of selected cycle
Cj ∈ FCnew ∩NCk. If a cycle Cj ∈ (FCnew ∩NCk)
and the zy copy is found and satisfied the constraint,
then add path Pk to the set PoCy,zy .
If the path cannot be protected by the cycles in
FCnew ∩ NCk, then a new cycle Cj is selected from
NCk to protect path Pk. For the selected cycle Cj ,
increase zj by 1, create a set PoCj,zj to store path Pk,
add Cj to the set FCnew, then set the value of PCGk
as j and CGk as zj .
Then, increase k by 1. If k > |P f |, set k to 1. Re-
peat the above steps to determine the protected cycle
of next path until all contents of PCG and CG are set,
then the initialization process is terminated.
4.3 Fitness Definition
Generally, GA uses fitness function to map objective
to cost and to achieve the goal of a minimal cost. Let
l(Cj) be the length of cycle Cj ∈ NC and zj be the
number of copies of the cycle Cj . An objective func-
tion value is associated with chromosome and repre-
sented by the following equation: minimize OBJ =∑|NC|
j=1 zj × l(Cj) =
∑
∀Cj∈FCnew zj × l(Cj).
Since the best-fit chromosomes should have a prob-
ability of being selected as parents that is proportional
to their fitness, they need to be expressed in a max-
imization form. This is done by subtracting the ob-
jective (OBJ) from a large number Cmax. Hence, the
fitness function becomes maximum Cmax −OBJ,
where Cmax denotes the maximum value observed,
so far, of the cost function in the population. Let
Ccost be the value of the cost function for the chromo-
some; Cmax can be calculated by the following itera-
tive equation: Cmax = max{Cmax, Ccost}, where Cmax
is initialized to zero.
4.4 Crossover Operators and Mutation
The Single Point Crossover is used to develop th GA.
First, randomly select a crossover site (integer) i from
interval [1, |P f |]. In SPC, the operator is applied on
both the PCG and CG.
The Single Protecting Cycle Mutation (SPCM) is
applied to GA. First randomly select an integer i in
the interval [1, |P f |], assume path Pk be protected
by the zj-th copy of cycle Cj , SPCM changes the
protecting cycle of paths in the PoCj,zj by select-
ing a cycle Ca with minimal length, if possible. The
cycle is selected from the set CS of cycles, where
CS =
⋂
Pk∈PoCj,zj {NCk}, with minimal length.
4.5 Chromosome Adjustment Algo-
rithm (CAA)
After performing crossover and/or mutation opera-
tions, it may generate infeasible chromosomes. Thus,
these chromosomes should be adjusted to a constraint-
satisfied solutions by performing the CAA.
To adjust the chromosome to a constraint-satisfied
one, first, the chromosome can be considered as two
parts separated by the crossover site i. It is worth
noting that, before performing crossover, each part is
constraint-satisfy. Random select a part (left or right)
and a direction (increasing-direction or decreasing-
direction) for adjustment. The increasing-direction
means that the adjustment is performed from 1 to i
and from i+1 to |P f | for the left part and right part,
respectively. And the decreasing-direction is the re-
verse direction of the increasing-direction. If the left
part is selected and the increasing-direction is to be
apply, the right part of the chromosome is packed and
preserved.
The details of CAA are described as follows. First,
construct empty set FCnew. For each cycle Cj used
in the right part, put it into FCnew and construct
the sets PoCj,zj . Second, two paths assigned to same
cycle but not to same copies are tried to merge so as
the number of copies of cycle can be reduced.
Third, according to the direction of adjustment, the
protecting cycle for path Pk (1 ≤ k ≤ i) is adjusted.
For the selected path Pk, a FIPP p-cycle in NCk ∩
FCnew is selected randomly to protect it. If FCnew ∩
NCk is nonempty, then those cycles in FCnew ∩NCk
are selected first and tested whether there is a cycle
8
Algorithm 9 Preprocessing
1: Input: G(V,E), CS = ∪∀viNEPC(vi), vf P ;
2: Output: G′, AC and BF ;
3: Let G′ = G.
4: Remove failed node vf and edges in E(vf ) from G to form the graph G′(V \
{vf}, E \ E(vf )).
5: Construct the empty sets AC and BP .
6: for all (working path Pk ∈ P ) do
7: According the case of failure, perform the respective case (1)–(3):
8: (1) End-node failure: Remove working path Pk from P and release
the network resources of path Pk. For each node vi on Pk, remove
NEPC(vi) from CS and release the resources of the cycle NEPC(vi)
if no transiting flow through the node vi.
9: (2) Interior-node failure: Use the default path of NEPC(vf ) to re-
cover the connection, put the backup path into set BP , put the remaining
path Prf into set AC, and remove NEPC(vf ) from CS.
10: (3) On-cycle failure: Put the remaining path Pri of the affected cycle
NEPC(vi) into set AC and remove NEPC(vi) from CS.
11: end for
To gain more resource efficiency, the remaining
paths of the affected NEPCs should be used for re-
pairing the protecting cycles. First, the Remaining
Path Searching Algorithm is performed to find a new
path Pni which is node-disjoint to the path Pri ∈ AC.
If a path Pni can be found, two paths Pri and Pni are
combined to form the cycle NEPC ′(vi). Otherwise,
resources possessed by the Pri are released, the Cy-
cle Refinding Algorithm is performed to find a whole
new NEPC to protect the node vi. If the new NEPC
cannot be found, it means that node vi cannot be pro-
tected by a NEPC, then a NOPC is found to protect
it. To achieve this goal, the NOPC Repairing Algo-
rithm is performed to find a path Pai which passed
through node vi. If path Pai can be found, paths Pai
and Pri are combined to form a new NOPC for node
vi. Otherwise, all resources possessed by the Prf and
Pri are released and the NOPC Refinding Algorithm is
performed to find a whole new NOPC to protect the
node vi.
In the Backup Path Protection Algorithm, for each
unprotected node on each backup path in BP , a new
NEPC is found to protect it, if possible. If new NEPC
cycle cannot be found, instead a new NOPC is found to
protect it, if possible. The NEPC Recovery Algorithm
is showed in Algorithm 10 and the details of the called
algorithms are described in the following subsections.
5.2.1 Remaining Path Searching Algorithm
In the subsection, the details of the Remaining Path
Searching Algorithm are described. First, for a se-
lected remaining path Pri for protecting node vi, a
new path Pni, which is node-disjoint to Pri, is found.
Then, two paths Pri and Pni are combined to form a
new NEPC for node vi. The details of the Remaining
Path Searching Algorithm are shown in Algorithm 11.
5.2.2 Cycle Adjustment
The goal of Cycle Adjustment is to reduce the length
of the NEPC. For a given cycle NEPC(vi), let S be
the set of all straddling (not on-cycle) links of cycle
NEPC(vi). If link e = (vse, vde) ∈ S can partition the
NEPC(vi) into two portions, such that all neighbor-
Algorithm 10 NEPC Recovery Algorithm
1: Input: G, CS = ∪∀viNEPC(vi), vf ;
2: Output: CS.
3:
4: Perform Preprocessing to construct G′, AC and BP .
5:
6: while (AC 6= ∅) do
7: Select a remaining path Pri from AC, let vi be the node to be protected.
8: Perform Remaining Path Searching Algorithm to recover the cycle
NEPC(vi).
9: if (NEPC′(vi) can be found) then
10: add NEPC′(vi) to CS;
11: else
12: Perform Cycle Refinding Algorithm to find a new cycle
NEPC′(vi).
13: if (NEPC′(vi) can be found) then
14: add NEPC′(vi) to CS;
15: else
16: Perform NOPC Repairing Algorithm to find a NOPC′(vi).
17: if (NOPC′(vi) can be found) then
18: add NOPC′(vi) to CS;
19: else
20: Perform NOPC Finding Algorithm to find a NOPC′(vi).
21: if (NOPC′(vi) can be found) then
22: add NOPC′(vi) to CS;
23: else
24: return false.
25: end if
26: end if
27: end if
28: end if
29: end while
30:
31: Perform Backup Path Protection Algorithm to find protecting cycles
for the set BP .
32:
Algorithm 11 Remaining Path Searching Algo-
rithm
1: Input: G′, Pri, vi;
2: Output: NEPC′(vi);
3: Let vsi and vdi be the end-nodes of the remaining path of Pri.
4: Find a new path Pni from vsi to vdi on G′, which is node-disjoint (expect
end-nodes) to Pri.
5: if (Pni cannot be found) then
6: return false;
7: else
8: Combine Pni and Pri to form NEPC′(vi).
9: Use Cycle Adjustment to reduce the length of NEPC′(vi), if possible.
10: return NEPC′(vi).
11: end if
nodes of N(vi) are in the same portion, then link e
can be used to reduce the length of cycle. Let l(e), r–
length, be the length of the path from node vse to vde
on cycle NEPC(vi) which passes no node in N(vi). If
link e is used for cycle adjustment, the length of the
new cycle NEPC ′(vi) can be reduce by l(e)−1. Thus,
the cycle adjustment can be performed by selecting
the straddling link e of NEPC(vi) which satisfies the
constraints described above and with maximal l(e).
Then the cycle NEPC(vi) is updated and the reduced
operation is performed repeatedly until the length of
new cycle cannot be reduced further.
5.2.3 Cycle Refinding Algorithm
If the Remaining Path Searching Algorithm described
above cannot be used to recover the NEPC(vi), then
the resources of Pri are released and a whole new
NEPC is found to protect the node vi. To find a
whole new NEPC, the LCMA algorithm proposed in
[25] is used. First, the data table, known as the local-
map, is constructed for node vi. The network infor-
mation, such as the node connectivity and the work-
ing/spare capacity of available links, is stored in local-
map. The size or scope of a local-map is measured
10
nection request, a pair of node-disjoint paths with min-
imal cost are provided. When a node on the primary
path failed, the backup path was used to recover the
connection and served as the working path, and then
a new path which is node-disjoint to the new working
path was found to protect it.
6.1 Effects of The Number of Connec-
tions
First, the number of wavelengths provided by the net-
work is assumed to be infinite. WDM networks with
different number of connections (20, 40, 60, 80, 100, or
120) were generated. For the random selected failed
nodes, each case was examined 20 times and the result
was evaluated and compared. Let Backup resources
ratio be the ratio of the total capacities to that of the
working capacities. The results were shown in Figure 4
on comparing the BRR performance of the proposed
methods for networks with different number of connec-
tions.
Figure 4(a) shows the comparison of the aver-
age(Avg.), minimal(Min.) and maximal(Max.) BRR
performances of the GA to that of the NDPS methods
on the network COST239. It is easily to find that, as
the number of connections increases the average BRR
performance decreases. The average BRR value of the
GA decreases from 1.5 to 1.15 and it is better than
that of the NDPS. Even the maximal case of GA can
get better performance than NDPS. For the case of
the National network, the BRR performance of GA is
better than that of the NDPS Figure 4(b).
6.2 Effects of The Number of Wave-
lengths
For the limited number of wavelengths (W in {20, 40,
60, 80, 100, 120}), WDM networks with 120 connec-
tions were generated for these experiments. The re-
sults were shown in Figure 5 on comparing the BRR
performance of the GA and NDPS for networks with
different number of wavelengths.
In Figure 5(a), it is easily to find that as the number
of wavelengths increases the average BRR performance
of the GA method slightly decreases. The BRR value
of the GA method decreases about 0.2 on networks
and it is better than that of the NDPS. For the case
of the National network, the BRR performance of GA
is also better than that of the NDPS Figure 5(b).
7 Conclusions
In this project, the minimal backup reprovisioning
(MBR) problem for FIPP p-cycles and NEPCs on
WDM networks for node failure was studied. After
recovering the working paths affected by the failed
node, the protecting capabilities of FIPP p-cycles (or
NEPCs) is recovered by performing MBR against the
subsequent nodes failure on WDM networks.
For the FIPP scheme, an SCI-indexed journal
paper[28] and a conference paper[29] have been pub-
lished. For the NEPC scheme, a paper has been sub-
mitted for possible publication [30].
References
[1] B. Mukherjee, Optical WDM Networks , Springer
press, 2006.
[2] A. Ramamurthy and B. Mukherjee, “Survivable
WDM mesh networks-part II: restoration,” in Proc.
of IEEE ICC 1999, pp. 2023–2030, 1999.
[3] Hui-Kai Su, Cheng-Shong Wu, Yuan-Sun Chu, “IP
Local Node Protection,” in Proc. of ICSNC 2007,
Second International Conference on Systems and Net-
works Communications, pp. 58, 2007.
[4] D. Stamatelakis and W. D. Grover, “IP layer restora-
tion and network planning based on virtual protection
cycles,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Commu-
nications, vol. 18, no. 10, pp. 1938–1949, 2000.
[5] G. Shen and W. D. Grover, “Extending the p-cycle
concept to path segment protection for span and node
failure recovery,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in
Communications, vol. 20, no. 8, pp. 1306–1319, 2003.
[6] A. Kodian and W. D. Grover, “Failure-independent
path-protecting p-cycles: efficient and simple fully
pre-connected optical path protection,” Journal of
Lightwave Technology , vol. 23, no. 10, pp. 3241–3259,
2005.
[7] W. D. Grover and A. Kodian, “Failure-independent
path protection with p-Cycles: efficient, fast and sim-
ple protection for transparent optical networks,” in
Proc. of Int. Conf. on Transparent Optical Networks,
vol.1, pp 363–369, Jul. 2005.
[8] A. Kodian and W. D. Grover, “A disjoint route
sets approach to design of failure-independent path-
protecting p-cycle networks,” in Proc. of the 5th Int.
Workshop on Design of Reliable Communication Net-
works (DRCN) 2005, Island of Ischia, Naples, Italy,
pp. 231–238, July 2005.
[9] B. Jaumard, C. Rocha, W.D. Grover, “A column gen-
eration approach for design of networks using path-
protecting p-Cycles,” in Proc. of Sixth Int. Work-
shop on Design of Reliable Communication Networks
(DRCN) 2007, La Rochelle, France, Oct. 7–10, 2007.
[10] C. Ge, N. Bai, X. Sun, and M. Zhang, “Iterative
joint design approach for failure-independent path-
protecting p-cycle networks,” Journal of Optical Net-
working , vol. 6, no. 12, pp. 1329–1339 , Dec. 2007.
[11] D. Baloukov, W. D. Grover, and A. Kodian, “To-
ward jointly optimized design of failure-independent
path-protecting p-cycle networks,” Journal of Optical
Networking, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 62–79, Jan. 2008.
12
1 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 99-2221-E-018-015 
計畫名稱 分波多工網路上節點故障保護環備用重新供給問題 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 丁德榮教授兼系主任 國立彰化師範大學 資訊工程系 
會議時間地點 2011/8/11~2010/8/14  中國大陸 河南省鄭州 (Zhengzhou) 
會議名稱 ICIC2011 The 2011 Seventh International Conference 
on Intelligent Computing 
發表論文題目 GA-Based Hybrid Algorithm for MBR Problem of FIPP p-Cycles for Node 
Failure on Survivable WDM Networks 
 
1.會議宗旨與投稿論文 
    ICIC2011 (The 2011 Seventh International Conference on Intelligent Computing) 為中國大
陸自然科學基金會財務贊助、國際 IEEE 計算智慧協會(International IEEE Computational 
Intelligence Society)與國際類神經網路協會(The International Neural Network Society)共同贊助
的國際會議。本此會議主題為進階智慧計算方法與應用(Advanced Intelligent Computing 
Methodologies and Applications)。 論文主題涵蓋工業議題與應用及智慧計算的學術研究，接
受的論文出版於 Springer Verlag 出版社之論文集，包括 Lecture Notes in Computer Sciences 
(LNCS)、Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence (LNAI)、 Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics 
(LNBI)、 Communications in Computer and Information Science (CCIS)。ICIC2011 為著名的智
能計算應用研究的年度國際研討會，會議論文主題為人工智慧、機器學習與生物資訊。ICIC
會議繼先前 2010 年於長沙、2009 年於韓國、2008 年於上海之後，ICIC2011 於河南省鄭州舉
辦，大會會議規畫在 8 月 11 日至 14 日。此次徵稿共計有 832 篇相關來自 28 個國家論文投稿，
共選出 281 篇論文於會議中發表，接受率約為 30%，每篇投稿論文均由至少兩位專家審稿。
並依論文的品質、貢獻、與相關性評分與排名，入選論文極為不易。論文集為 LNCS 6838、
LNAI 6839 與 LNBI 6840。10 篇與  44 篇論文被推薦到期刊  BMC Bioinformatics 與 
Neurocomputing。本人所撰之論文”GA-Based Hybrid Algorithm for MBR Problem of FIPP 
p-Cycles for Node Failure on Survivable WDM Networks” 獲得入選並獲邀與會報告，獲選論
文並刊出於 LNCS 中(SCIE indexed)。 
 
2.會議議程與研討心得 
IEEE Fellow Gary G. Yen (President of the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society) 的講題
為 ”Cultual-Based Particle Swarm Optimization for Constrained Multiobjective 
Optimization”，於演講中，Professor Yen 提及 演化式計算 (Evolutionary computation)  的
主要設計概念和靈感來自自然進化和適應，是研究生物演化機轉的計算方法。應用於
population-based 的啟發式解法和限制與動態最佳化問題 ( constrained and dynamic 
optimization problems)之成果與效能 已獲得計算智能協會越來越多的支持。  
3 
 
效果均較佳。  
 
3.出國行程 
8 月 12 日，早上搭乘桃園-鄭州的直航班機起飛，約在 14:30 抵達鄭州，出關後隨即至
會場報到，聆聽演講並參與討論。 
z 15:50-17:50  Machine Learning Theory and Methods II  
z 主持人 Rudy Rotili 與 Vincenzo Di Lecce 
z 發表論文：Paper No: 1484, 1510, 1172, 1036, 1653, 1436, 1442, 1473 
Chair: Rudy Rotili, Vincenzo Di Lecce
Paper No: 
1484 
Stability Analysis of Neutral Systems with Distributed Delays 
Duyu Liu, Qinzhen Huang 
College of Electrical and Information Engineering, Southwest University for 
Nationalities. 
The stability of linear neutral systems with distributed de- lays is studied in this paper. A new 
neutral and discrete delays de-composition Lyapunov functional method is proposed. Some 
stability conditions are derived. A numerical example illustrates that the stability criteria in this 
paper is less conservative than the existing ones. In addition, by using argumented Lyapunov 
functional, this method allows the coefficient matrix of the neutral term to have time-varying 
uncertainties. 
Paper No: 
1510 
Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Markov Chains: Type Reduction 
Juan C. Figueroa-Garc´ıa1, Dusko Kalenatic2, and Cesar Amilcar Lopez3 
1 Universidad Distrital Francisco Jos´e de Caldas, Bogot´a - Colombia. 
2 Universidad de La Sabana, Ch´ıa - Colombia 
3 Universidad Distrital Francisco Jos´e de Caldas, Bogot´a - Colombia 
This paper shows an application of Type-reduction algorithms for computing the steady state of 
an Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Markov Chain (IT2FM). The IT2FMapproach is an extension of the 
scope of a Type-1 fuzzy markov chain (T1FM) that allows embedding several Type-1 fuzzy sets 
(T1FS) inside its Footprint of Uncertainty. In this way, a finite state Fuzzy Markov Chain 
process is defined on an Interval Type-2 Fuzzy environment, finding their limiting properties 
and its Type-reduced behavior. To do so, two examples are provided 
Paper No: 
1172 
Structural Fault Diagnosis of Rotating Machinery Based on Distinctive Frequency 
Components and Support Vector Machines 
Hongtao Xue1, Huaqing Wang2, Liuyang Song2 and Peng Chen1 
1 Graduate School of Bioresources, Mie University 
2 Beijing University of Chemical Technology 
In the field of rotating machinery diagnosis using traditional intelligent diagnosis method, the 
state judgment and fault detection are usually carried out by symptom parameters (SPs). 
However, it is difficult to find the general and highly sensitive SPs for rotating machinery 
diagnosis. Intelligent methods, such as neural networks, genetic algorithms, etc., often cannot 
converge when being trained. In order to solve these problems, this paper proposes a new 
intelligent diagnosis based on distinctive frequency components (DFCs) and support vector 
machines (SVMs) which can be used to detect faults and recognize fault types of rotating 
machinery. The method has been applied to detect the structural faults of rotating machinery, 
and the efficiency of the method is verified by practical examples. 
Paper No: 
1036 
Probe into Principle of Expert System in Psychological Warfare 
Li Shouqi, Long Fangcheng and Wang Yongchang 
National University of Defense Technology, China 
This paper studies principles, characteristics and process of psychological warfare and the 
essentials of artificial intelligence. By providing the theoretical frame of expert system in 
psychological warfare (ESPW) based on production rule, this paper makes breakthroughs on the 
combination of artificial intelligence and psychological warfare. This theoretical frame is the 
foundation of ESPW and it covers production rule set, fact database, knowledge reason tree, 
reason machine principle and other contents. 
Paper No: 
1653 
Real-Time Speech Recognition in a Multi-Talker Reverberated Acoustic Scenario 
Rudy Rotili1, Emanuele Principi1, Stefano Squartini1, and Bjorn Schuller2** 
5 
 
meta-model. The number of objective function evaluations is considered, and also the conditions 
under which the algorithm actually helps to reduce the time needed to find a solution are analyzed. 
Paper No: 
1453 
A restrained optimal perturbation method for solving the inverse problem in reverse 
process of convection diffusion equation 
Bo Wang1,2, Guang-an Zou2, and Peng Zhao2 
1 Institute of Applied Mathematics, Henan university, Kaifeng, China 
2 College of Mathematics and Information Science, Henan university, Kaifeng, China 
In this paper, a new approach of the restrained optimal perturbation method is firstly proposed to 
study the inverse problem in the reverse process of the one-dimensional convection diffusion 
equation, the idea of this method is brand new that in search for the optimal perturbation value by 
the given initial estimate, for determining the initial distribution based on the over specified data, 
and the initial estimates plus optimal perturbation value can be treated as the final initial 
distribution, in order to overcome the ill-posedness of this problem, a regularization term is 
introduced in the objective functional. Numerical examples will be given, and the results show that 
our method is effective. 
Paper No: 
1007 
Vibration Control of A Vehicle Using Hybrid Genetic Algorithm 
Syeda Darakhshan Jabeen and Rathindra Nath Mukherjee 
Department of Mathematics, University of Burdwan, 
Burdwan-713104, India. 
In this paper a new hybrid method has been proposed for solving the suspension design problem. A 
two-dimensional model of a car with linear passive suspension system and with two passengers has 
been considered. The vibration, experienced by the passengers due to road bump during vehicle 
motion has been minimized in time domain, by applying the proposed method. 
Moreover, the suspension parameters have been determined which satisfy performance as per ISO 
standards. The solutions/ parametric values so obtained have been further compared with the 
existing suspension parameters 
Paper No: 
1079 
Dynamics of a Two Prey One Predator Fishery with Low Predator Density 
T. Das1, R. N. Mukherjee2, K.S. Chaudhuri3 
1 Department of Mathematics, University Institute of Technology, Burdwan University, 
Burdwan –713104, India 
2 Retd.Professor, Department of Mathematics, Burdwan University, Burdwan – 
713104,India 
3 Professor, Department of Mathematics, Jadavpur University, Kolkata –700032 
The present model is concerned with a multispecies fishery with two prey species both of which 
obeys the logistic law of growth and one predator species whose density is low. The predator 
consumes one of the prey species more intensively than the other because of its availability. For 
the predator species the growth function is taken as the model described by Smith. We assume that 
both the prey species are subjected to harvesting while the predator species is excluded from 
harvesting due to its low density. In this model we consider that the harvesting effort E is a 
function of time t. For optimization, we use the concept of generalized Legendre condition. The 
trajectory for the optimal singular extremely is derived and the optimal singular control is 
determined. Lastly, one numerical example is taken up and graph for steady state is drawn to 
illustrate the results. 
Paper No: 
1835 
A New hybrid algorithm for the multidimensional knapsack problem 
Xiaoxia zhang, Zhe Liu and Qiuying Bai 
College of Software Engineering, University of Science and Technology Liaoning, 
China 
This paper presents a novel hybrid algorithm to solve the multidimensional knapsack problem. 
The main feature of this hybrid algorithm is to combine the solution construction mechanism of ant 
colony optimization (ACO) into scatter search (SS). It considers both solution quality and 
diversification. A new mechanism of the subset combination method has been applied 
simultaneity, which hybridizes mechanism of the pheromone trail updating with combination 
mechanism of scatter search to generate new solutions. Second, an improvement algorithm should 
be embedded into the scatter search framework to improve solutions. Finally, the experimental 
results have shown that our proposed method is competitive to solve the multidimensional 
knapsack problem compared with the other heuristic methods in terms of solution quality 
Paper No: 
1905 
Recursive and Incremental Learning GA Featuring Problem-Dependent Rule-Set 
Haofan Zhang1, Lei Fang2 and Sheng-Uei Guan1 
1 Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering, Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool 
7 
 
an ongoing grammar checker as a second language by using trigram language model and rule 
based model. It is able to solve distortion, deficiency and make smooth the translated 
English sentences. We identify the sentences with chunk types and generate context free grammar 
(CFG) rules for recognizing grammatical relations of chunks. There are three main tasks to reduce 
grammar errors: detecting the sentence patterns in chunk level, analyzing the chunk errors and 
correcting the errors. Such a three level scheme is a useful framework for a chunk based grammar 
checker. Experimental results show that the proposed grammar checker can improve the 
correctness of translated English sentences. 
Paper No: 
1444 
The Models of Dominance–based Multigranulation Rough Sets 
Xibei Yang 
Jiangsu Sunboon Information Technology Co., Ltd., Wuxi, Jiangsu, 214072, P.R. China 
In this paper, the dominance–based rough set approach is introduced into multigranulation 
environment. Two different dominance–based multigranulation rough sets models: 
dominance–based optimistic multigranulation rough set and dominance–based pessimistic 
multigranulation rough set are constructed, respectively. Not only the properties of these two 
dominance–based multigranulation rough sets are discussed, but also the relationships among 
dominance–based optimistic multigranulation rough set, dominance–based pessimistic 
multigranulation rough set and the classical dominance–based rough set are investigated 
Paper No: 
1445 
An Intuitionistic Fuzzy Dominance–based Rough Set 
Yanqin Zhang1 and Xibei Yang2 
1 School of Economics, Xuzhou Institute of Technology, Xuzhou, 221000, P.R. China 
2 School of Computer Science and Engineering, Jiangsu University of Science and 
Technology, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, 212003, P.R. China 
The dominance–based rough set approach plays an important role in the development of the rough 
set theory. It can be used to describe the inconsistencies coming from consideration of the 
preference–ordered domains of the attributes. The purpose of this paper is to further generalize the 
dominance–based rough set model to fuzzy environment. The constructive approach is used to 
define the intuitionistic fuzzy dominance–based lower and upper approximations, respectively. 
Basic properties of the intuitionistic fuzzy dominance–based rough approximations are then 
examined. 
Paper No: 
1474 
A Covering-based Pessimistic Multigranulation Rough Set 
Guoping Lin and Jinjin Li 
Department of Mathematics and Information Science, Zhangzhou Normal University, 
Zhangzhou, 363000, Fujian, China 
In view of granular computing, the classical optimistic and pessimistic multigranulation rough set 
models are both primarily based on simple granules among multiple granular structures, namely 
multiple partitions of the universe in MGRS. This correspondence paper presents a new rough set 
model where set approximations are defined by using multiple coverings on the universe. In order 
to distinguish Qian's covering-based optimistic multigranulation rough set model, we call the new 
rough set model as covering-based pessimistic multigranulation rough set model. The key 
distinction between covering-based pessimistic multigranulation rough set model and Qian's 
covering-based optimistic multigranulation rough set model is set approximation descriptions. 
Then some properties are proposed for covering-based pessimistic multigranulation rough set 
model. 
Paper No: 
1486 
A generalized multi-granulation rough set approach 
Weihua Xu, Xiantao Zhang and Qiaorong Wang 
School of Mathematics and Statistics,Chongqing University of Technology, 400054 
Chongqing, P.R. China 
A generalized multi-granulation rough set is proposed in this paper. In the new model, supporting 
characteristic function is defined and a parameter called information level is introduced to 
investigate that an object supports a concept precisely under majority granulations. Moreover, 
some important properties are discussed on the new multi-granulation rough set. And it can be 
found that the proposed model is more valid than old multiple granulation rough set models and 
Pawlak rough set model. 
Paper No: 
1098 
A Text Classication Algorithm Based on Rocchio and Hierarchical Clustering 
Anping Zeng1 and Yongping Huang2 
1School of Computer and Information Engineering, Yibin University,Yibin, Sichuan 
644007, China, 2Computational Physics Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, Yibin 
University,Yibin, Sichuan 644007, China 
9 
 
In this paper, an effective algorithm based on the shuffled frog leaping algorithm (SFLA) is 
proposed to solve the hybrid flow-shop (HFS) scheduling problem, which is a strong NP-hard 
combinational problem with very wide engineering background. By using a special encoding 
scheme and combining SFLA based memetic search and Meta-Lamarckian local search strategy, 
the exploration and exploitation abilities are enhanced and well balanced for solving the HFS 
problems. Simulation results based on some typical problems and comparisons with some existing 
genetic algorithm and differential evolution demonstrate that the proposed algorithm is effective 
and robust in solving the HFS problem. 
Paper No: 
1151 
A Hybrid Algorithm Based on Simplex Search and Differential Evolution for 
Resource-constrained Project Scheduling Problem 
Ling Wang, Ye Xu, and Chen Fang 
Tsinghua National Laboratory for Information Science and Technology (TNList), 
Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, P.R. China 
In this paper, an effective hybrid algorithm is proposed to solve the resource-constrained project 
scheduling problem by merging Nelder-Mead (NM) simplex method and differential evolution 
(DE). The individuals are encoded with the priority value based method and decoded by serial 
schedule generate scheme (SGS). Moreover, a reasonable framework is proposed to hybridize the 
simplex-based geometric search and the DE-based evolutionary search, and the simplex search is 
modified to further improve the quality of solutions obtained by DE. By interactively using the two 
methods with different mechanisms, the searching behavior can be enriched and the exploration 
and exploitation abilities can be well balanced. Simulation results based on some benchmarks 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid algorithm. 
Paper No: 
1155 
A Differential Evolution Algorithm for Lot-streaming Flow Shop Scheduling Problem 
Hongyan Sang1, 2, Liang Gao1 and Xinyu Li1 
1State Key Lab. of Digital Manufacturing Equipment & Technology in Huazhong 
University of Science & Technology, Wuhan, 430074, PR China 
A differential evolution (DE) algorithm is proposed to minimize the total weighted tardiness and 
earliness penalties for lot-streaming flow shop scheduling problems. In the proposed DE algorithm, 
the largest position value (LPV) rule is used to convert a real-number DE vector to a job 
permutation. The DE evolution is used to perform global exploitation, and a local search procedure 
is used to enhance the exploration capability. Extensive computational simulations and 
comparisons are provided, which demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed DE algorithm. 
Paper No: 
1099 
An Estimation of Distribution Algorithm for the Flexible Job-shop Scheduling Problem 
Shengyao Wang, Ling Wang, Gang Zhou, and Ye Xu 
Tsinghua National Laboratory for Information Science and Technology (TNList), 
Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, P.R. China 
In this paper, an effective estimation of distribution algorithm (EDA) is proposed to solve the 
flexible job-shop scheduling problem with the criterion to minimize the maximum completion time 
(makespan). With the framework of the EDA, the probability model is built with the superior 
population and the new individuals are generated based on probability model. In addition, an 
updating mechanism of the probability model is proposed and a local search strategy based on 
critical path is designed to enhance the exploitation ability. Finally, numerical simulation is carried 
out based on the benchmark instances, and the comparisons with some existing algorithms 
demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm. 
Paper No: 
1094 
An Effective Artificial Bee Colony Algorithm for Multi-objective Flexible Job-shop 
Scheduling Problem 
Gang Zhou, Ling Wang ,Ye Xu, and Shengyao Wang 
Tsinghua National Laboratory for Information Science and Technology (TNList), 
Department of Automation, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, P.R. China 
In this paper, an effective artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm is proposed to solve the 
multi-objective flexible job-shop scheduling problem with the criteria to minimize the maximum 
completion time, the total workload of machines and the workload of the critical machine 
simultaneously. By using the effective decoding scheme, hybrid initialization strategy, crossover 
and mutation operators for machine assignment and operation sequence, local search based on 
critical path and population updating strategy, the exploration and exploitation abilities of ABC 
algorithm are stressed and well balanced. Simulation results based on some widely used 
benchmark instances and comparisons with some existing algorithms demonstrate the effectiveness 
of the proposed ABC algorithm. 
Paper No: Discrete Harmony Search Algorithm for the No wait Flow Shop Scheduling Problem with 
11 
 
Paper No: 
1587 
Variable Neighborhood Search for Drilling 
Yun-Chia Liang1 and Chia-Yun Tien2 
1,2 No 135 Yuan-Tung Road, Chungli City,Taoyuan County, 320 Taiwan 
Among all types of production environment, identical parallel machines are frequently used to 
increase the manufacturing capacity of the drilling operation in Taiwan printed circuit board (PCB) 
industries. So when a manager plans the production scheduling, multiple but conflicting objectives 
are often considered. Unlike the single objective problem, the multiple-objective version no longer 
looks for an individual optimal solution, but a Pareto front consisting of a set of non-dominated 
solutions. The manager then can select one of the alternatives from the set. For this matter, our 
research aims at applying a variable neighborhood search (VNS) algorithm in the identical parallel 
machine scheduling problem (IPMSP) with two conflicting objectives: makespan and total 
tardiness. In VNS, two neighborhoods are defined – insert a job to a different position or swap two 
jobs in the sequence. To save the computational expense, one of the neighborhoods is randomly 
selected for the target solution which is also arbitrarily chosen from the current Pareto front. The 
proposed VNS algorithm is tested on a set of real data collected from a leading PCB factory in 
Taiwan and its performance is compared with well-known methods in the literature. The 
computational results show that VNS outperforms all competing algorithms – SPGA, MOGA, 
NSGA-II, SPEA-II, and MACO in terms of solution quality and computational time. 
Paper No: 
1515 
 
Research on Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demand Based on Multi-objective 
Method 
Yanwei Zhao, Chuan Li, Jing-ling Zhang, Xingqiu Ren, Wei Ren 
1.Key Laboratory of Special Equipment and Advanced Processing Technology Ministry 
of Education,Zhejiang Univ. of Tech. , ZheJiang HangZhou 310012,China 
2.College of Computer Science & Technology, Zhejiang Univ. of Tech. , ZheJiang 
Hangzhou 310023, China 
This paper was targeted at minimizing the expectation of traveling distance maximizing the 
expectation of customers’ degree satisfaction, a multi-objective vehicle routing problem with 
stochastic demand (VRPSD) model based on soft time window was proposed. In order to solve the 
problem, a hybrid PSO algorithm based on Pareto optimization method was designed in this paper. 
The paper made the standard PSO algorithm discrete by re-defining operators and employing swap 
recon, utilized challenge tournament method to construct Pareto optimal solution set, applied an 
external archive to keep the diversity of solutions. Ultimately, a standard example is used to verify 
the validity of the algorithm. 
Paper No: 
1220 
 
A Novel Multi-objective Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm for Flow Shop 
Scheduling Problems 
Wanliang Wang1, Lili Chen2, Jing Jie1, Yanwei Zhao3, and Jing Zhang2 
1 College of Computer Science and Technology, Zhejiang University of Technology, 
Hangzhou 310023, China 
2 College of Information Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 
310014, China 
3 College of Mechanical Engineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 
310014, China 
In this paper, a novel hybrid multi-objective particle swarm algorithm Mopsocd_BL is proposed to 
solve the flow shop scheduling problem with two objectives of minimizing makespan and the total 
idle time of machines. This algorithm bases on Baldwinian learning mechanism to improve local 
search ability of particle swarm optimization, and uses the Pareto dominance and crowding 
distance to update the solutions. Experimental results show that this algorithm can maintain the 
diversity of solutions and find more uniformly distributed Pareto optimal solutions. 
Paper No: 
1195 
 
Flexible Job Shop Scheduling Problem by Chemical-reaction Optimization Algorithm 
Junqing Li, Yuanzhen Li, Huaqing Yang, Kaizhou Gao, Yuting Wang and Tao Sun 
School of Computer, Liaocheng University, Liaocheng, 252059 
In this paper, we propose a novel discrete chemical-reaction optimization (DCRO) algorithm for 
solving the flexible job shop scheduling problem with three objectives. The molecule is used to 
represent a solution. The four elementary reactions, i.e., the on-wall ineffective collision, the 
decomposition, the inter-molecular ineffective collision, and the synthesis, are used as the 
operators for the hybrid algorithm. In the hybrid algorithm, the crossover operator is embedded to 
learn information among molecules. To increase the ability to escape from the local optima, the 
buffer is used as the energy center to share kinetic energy among molecules. Experimental results 
on the well-known benchmarks show the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed algorithm. 
13 
 
    鄭州位於河南省中部，黃河南岸，是中國重要的工業城市之一。鄭州市位於中原腹地，
交通位置極為重要。鄭州商業發達，又有《中原商城》之稱。現轄6區5市1縣，一個國家級新
區，兩個國家級開發區、一個國家級出口加工區，是中國歷史文化名城、中國八大古都之一、
中國優秀旅遊城市、國家園林城市、國家衛生城市、國家綜合交通樞紐、中國中部重要的中
心城市、擁有得天獨厚的自然資源。是中華人文始祖軒轅黃帝的故里，夏朝的都城陽城，商
朝開國君主商湯所建的亳都，今河南省政治、經濟、教育、科研、文化中心。 
 
5. 主辦單位介紹 
主辦的鄭州輕工業學院創建于 1977 年，原隸屬國家輕工業部，1998 年轉為中央和河南
省共建，以地方管理為主，是一所以工科為主，工、理、文、經、管、法、教多學科協調發
展的高等學校。河南省文明學校。學校設有計算中心、現代教育技術中心、分析測試中心、
網絡中心、食品工程技術研究中心；圖書館館藏圖書資料 169 萬餘冊，現有中國期刊全文數
據庫、人大報刊資料數據庫、萬文數據庫、SCOPUS 數據庫、Elsevier SDOL 電子期刊數據庫
等 27 個數據庫，並配備有電子閱覽、語音聽力等現代化設備； 
  
  學校現設有藝術設計學院、材料與化學工程學院、電氣信息工程學院、機電工程學院、
計算機與通信工程學院、經濟與管理學院、食品與生物工程學院、繼續教育學院、國際教育
學院等 9 個二級學院，設有外語系、技術物理系、信息與計算科學系、法政系、體育系、藝
術教育中心等 6個教學系（中心）。學校現有 47 個本科專業，26 個碩士學位授權點，2個工
程碩士授權領域，具有藝術碩士和以研究生畢業同等學力申請碩士學位授予權。目前，學校
有研究生、本科生等各類在校生 15000 多名；現有專任教師近 900 人，其中雙聘中國工程院
院士 3 人，省級特聘教授崗位 8 個、省級特聘教授 6 人，有 2 個河南省科技創新團隊和 1 個
河南省高校科技創新團隊；有享受政府特殊津貼者、省管優秀專家、河南省學術技術帶頭人、
河南省跨世紀學術和技術帶頭人培養對象等高層次人才 100 多人。 
  
  近年來，學校以教學質量工程建設為契機，大力推進教育教學改革，教育質量穩步提高。
目前，學校有 3個國家級特色專業建設點、8 個省級特色專業建設點、15 門省級精品課程、2
個省級教學團隊，2005 年順利通過了教育部本科教學工作水平評估。在狠抓教學質量的同時，
學校高度重視學科建設，先後加強、拓寬了電機與電器、應用化學、機械制造及其自動化、
計算機應用技術、食品科學等學科的建設，其中電機與電器、機械制造及其自動化、食品科
學、應用化學等 22 個學科為河南省省級重點學科。學校設有河南省生物工程中心、河南省制
造業信息化技術服務中心、河南省高校生產力促進中心、鄭州市食品工程技術研究中心等 20
多個科研機構。近年來，承擔包括國家自然科學基金項目、國家社會科學基金項目在內的各
類科研項目 1千餘項，其中承擔國家級科研課題近 50 項，獲得包括國家科技進步二等獎在內
的省部級以上科研獎勵 57 項。自然科學研究論文被 SCI、EI、ISTP 收錄的數量達 500 餘篇，
出版專著和教材 402 部。 
  
GA-Based Hybrid Algorithm for MBR Problem
of FIPP p-Cycles for Node Failure on Survivable
WDM Networks
Der-Rong Din1
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering,
National Changhua University of Education
No. 1, Jin De Road, Changhua 500, Taiwan R.O.C.
Abstract. In this paper, the minimal backup reprovisioning (MBR)
problem is studied, in which, the failure-independent path protecting p-
cycles (FIPP p-cycles) scheme is considered for single node-failure on
WDM networks. After recovering the affected lightpaths from a node
failure, the goal of the MBR is to re-arrange the protecting and available
resources such that working paths can be protected against next node
failure if possible. This is a hard problem, a hybrid algorithm which com-
bines heuristic algorithm and genetic algorithm is proposed to solve this
problem. The simulation results of the proposed method are also given.
Keywords: WDM, node failure, MBR, FIPP p-cycles, GA 1
1 Introduction
In an optical network employing WDM, the failure of a single link (or node)
may lead to tremendous data loss since a single link can carry a huge amount of
data (on the order of terabits per second). Therefore, several schemes have been
proposed to achieve survivability by protection or restoration on the optical layer
[1]. In a protection scheme, extra bandwidth is reserved when the connection is
provisioned. The primary and backup paths are usually link (or node) disjoint,
which guarantees that at least one path is available when any single link (or
node) failure occurs in the network [1].
When a node failure occurs, all the traffic flows that go through the node and
all the local traffic that is collected and distributed by the node are interrupted.
The path-based protection techniques can be employed [2]. Setting protection
paths for the possible failed nodes may be cheaper and flexible approach because
there are huge wavelengths provided by the system and it can be extended more
easily than setting up double switches. Note that it is not possible in any scheme
to recover lightpaths from a failure at their own source/destination nodes. Node
failure protection through network reconfiguration is therefore only concerned
with restoring traffic flows that were transiting failed nodes [3].
1 This work was partly supported by the National Science Council (NSC) of Taiwan,
R. O. C. under Grant Number NSC-99-2221-E-018-015.
– P = {Pk|k = 1, 2, ..., |P |}: the set of working paths, where Pk ∈ P is the
working path. Nodes vsk and vdk are the source and destination nodes of Pk,
respectively.
– BPk: the backup path for the working path Pk, k = 1, 2, ..., |P | and path
BPk should be node-disjoint to Pk.
– vf : the failed node.
– N(vf ): the set of adjacent nodes of node vf .
– E(vf ): the set of links adjoined to node vf , E(vf ) ⊆ E.
– FC: the set of FIPP p-cycles used to protect all paths in P .
– PoCj : the set of paths which is protected by the FIPP p-cycle Cj , where
Cj ∈ FC, PoCj ⊆ P . Any two paths in PoCj are mutually node-disjoint.
– P f : the set of working paths affected by the failed node vf , P f ⊆ P .
The goal of the problem is to recover the protecting capabilities of the set
of FIPP p-cycles to protect working paths such that the total capacities can be
minimized. The proposed hybrid method consists of two algorithms, the first one
is the Preprocessing Algorithm and the second one is the Genetic Algorithm.
3 Preprocessing Algorithm
When node vf fails, the recovering procedure is performed to recover the affected
paths. In the recovering procedure, if path Pk is affected by the node failure,
first, the primary path is switched to the backup path BPk which is provided
by the protecting FIPP p-cycle. After recovering, the FIPP p-cycle may lose its
protecting capability and those paths originally protected by the FIPP p-cycle
and the backup path BPk are vulnerable now. If a node failure occurs again,
these paths cannot be protected. In backup reprovisioning, not only the affected
working paths are recovered by current FIPP p-cycles, the protecting capabilities
of affected FIPP p-cycles are also recovered and working paths can be survived
at the sequent node failure such that total capacities can be minimized.
3.1 Cases of Failure
In this subsection, working paths together with the FIPP p-cycles affected by the
node failure can be classified into four cases: (1) End-node failure: the failed
node is the source (or destination) node of the working paths, these working
paths cannot be recovered. (2) Straddling-path failure: the failed node is an
interior node of the working path Pk, but not on the protecting FIPP p-cycle Ci.
(3) On-cycle-path failure: the failed node is an interior node of the working
path Pk and also a node on the protecting cycle. In this case, the working path
Pk can still be recovered by using the remaining part of the FIPP p-cycle. (4)
Cycle failure: the failed node is on the cycle but all paths protected by the
cycle are unaffected, then the cycle affected by the failure will lose its protecting
capabilities.
4 Genetic Algorithm
4.1 Chromosome Encoding
Because the problem involves representing the protecting cycles for vulnerable
paths, a coding scheme that uses positive integer is employed. After performing
the Preprocessing Algorithm, the network G(V,E) is updated as G′(V \{vf}, E\
E(vf )) and the set P f of unprotected paths is constructed. For the current phys-
ical network G′(V \{vf}, E\E(vf )), the Cycle Finding Algorithm proposed in [7]
is performed to form the set (NC) of all possible cycles in G′(V \{vf}, E\E(vf )).
All cycles in NC are sorted and indexed in non-descending order according to
the length of the cycles. For each path Pk in P f , the set (NCk ⊆ NC) of cycles
which can be used to protect path Pk is formed. A chromosome consisting of an
integer array with size 2× |P f | is introduced to represent the protecting cycles
of vulnerable paths. The chromosome consists of two genes: the Protecting Cycle
Gene (PCG) and Copy Gene (CG). For each unprotected path Pk in P f , let vsk
and vdk be the source and destination nodes of the path Pk, respectively. The
PCG can be represented as {PCG1, PCG2, ..., PCG|P f |}, where CPCGk (k=1,
2, ..., |P f |) is a cycle in NCk and the index of cycle is in {1, 2, ..., NC}. The CG
can be represented as {CG1, CG2, ..., CG|P f |}, where CGk (k=1, 2, ..., |P f |)
means that the path Pk is protected by the CGk-th copy of the protected cycle
CPCGk .
4.2 Population Initialization
Let FCnew be the set of selected cycles which are used to protected the vulnera-
ble paths in P f . Initially, FCnew is an empty set. Let zj represent the maximal
copy of the cycle Cj ∈ NC, initially zj = 0, for j =1, 2, ..., NC. For each copy
of the selected cycle Cj , create a set PoCj,zy for storing those paths currently
protected by the zy-th (integer 1 ≤ zy ≤ zj) copy of cycle Cj .
The population of the genetic algorithm is generated by following steps: First,
random selected an integer k (1 ≤ k ≤ P f ). For the selected path Pk, a FIPP
p-cycle in NCk ∩ FCnew is selected randomly to protect it. This means that
those cycles currently deployed are selected first if possible. If FCnew ∩ NCk
is nonempty, then those cycles in FCnew ∩ NCk are selected first and tested
whether there is a cycle in FCnew ∩NCk can be used to protect the path Pk. It
is worth noting that path Pk can be protected by the zy-th (1 ≤ zy ≤ zj) copy
of Cj only if path Pk is node-disjoint to all paths in PoCj,zy of the zy-th copy of
selected cycle Cj ∈ FCnew ∩NCk. If a cycle Cj ∈ (FCnew ∩NCk) and the zy
copy is found and satisfied the constraint, then add path Pk to the set PoCy,zy .
If the path cannot be protected by the cycles in FCnew ∩NCk, then a new
cycle Cj is selected from NCk to protect path Pk. For the selected cycle Cj ,
increase zj by 1, create a set PoCj,zj to store path Pk, add Cj to the set FC
new,
then set the value of PCGk as j and CGk as zj . Then, increase k by 1. If
k > |P f |, set k to 1. Repeat the above steps to determine the protected cycle
of next path until all contents of PCG and CG are set, then the initialization
process is terminated.
Pk is node-disjoint to all paths in PoCj,zy of the zy-th copy of selected cycle
Cj ∈ FCnew ∩ NCk. If a cycle Cj ∈ (FCnew ∩ NCk) and the zy copy is found
and satisfied the constraint, then add path Pk to the set PoCy,zy . If the path
cannot be protected by the cycles in FCnew ∩NCk, then the original protecting
cycle (say Cj) is preserved to protect path Pk. For the selected cycle Cj , increase
zj by 1, create a set PoCj,zj to store path Pk, add Cj to the set FC
new, then
set PCGk to j and CGk to zj .
5 Experimental Results
The proposed algorithms were conducted by using C++ programming language
and Boost Graph Library [8]. All the simulations were run on a PC with Celeron 2
Duo 1.8 GHz CPU, 2.0G RAM, and with Windows Vista operating system. Two
physical topologies were used for experiments, they are COST239 and National
networks. All nodes in the network may fail and the failed nodes were generated
randomly.
The connection requests were generated randomly. A set of FIPP p-cycles
is used to protect primary lightpaths. The parameters of GA were determined
through simulations, and the crossover probability is set to 1.0, mutation prob-
ability is set to 0.1, and population size is set to 500. To know the efficiency of
the proposed methods, the node-disjoint paths (NDPS) protection method was
implemented for comparison.
Fig. 1. BRR performance for different number of connections on (a) COST239 with
different number of connections, (b) National with different number of connections, (c)
COST239 with different number of wavelengths, (d) National with different number of
wavelengths.
First, WDM networks with different number of connections were generated.
Each case was examined 20 times and the result was evaluated and compared.
Author: Prof. Der-Rong Din
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering
National Changhua University of Education, 
Changhua, Taiwan, 
ROC
2011/08/13
Paper No. 1522
ICIC2011 Section: Intelligent Computing Theory and Application II
GA-Based Hybrid Algorithm for MBR Problem of 
FIPP p-Cycles for Node Failure on Survivable WDM 
Networks
3～ Introduction ～
Introduction
Node Failure and Link Failure 
5
y Link Failure
y When a link fails, all the connections using this fiber are to be 
rerouted. 
y Protection methods
y Path protection
y Link protection
y Segment path protection
y Node Failure
y When a node fails, all the links adjacent to the failed node fails. 
y Protection methods
y Node- Encircling p-Cycles (NEPC)
y Failure Independent Path p-Cycles (FIPP p-cycles)
y Path Segment- Protecting p-Cycles(flow-protecting p-cycles)
1
4
3
2
78
9
10
56
0
lightpath
physical link
Related Works 
P-Cycles 
7
y P-Cycles 
y Stamatelaki and Grover designed p-Cycles protection in 1998. [4]
y A preconfigured cycle formed out of the spare capacities in 
the network.
y Protect both on-cycle spans and straddling spans.
y A p-cycle can protect one unit of working capacity on each 
on-cycle span and two units of working capacity on each 
straddling span.
y On-cycle span:
y a span on the cycle
y Straddling span:
y a span with two end nodes 
on cycle but itself not on cycle.
Straddling span
On-cycle span
0 1
2
34
5
6 7
89
On-cycle span 
failure
Straddling span 
failure
| 1. Ring-like switching speed (BLSR)
| 2. Mesh-like efficiency (SBPP)
Related Works
backup reprovisioning problem
y Single node failure
y Develop ILP formulations for dedicated and shared segmented 
protection schemes under single link/node failure. 
y Node failure protection can be achieved with an ordinary set of p-
cycles. 
y Extending the p-Cycle Concept to Path Segment Protection for 
Span and Node Failure Recovery. 
y Dual node failure
y A New Approach to Provide the Differentiated Levels of Network 
Survivability under a Double Node Failure. 
y Multiple node failures
y No related scheme was proposed.
11
～ Genetic Algorithm ～
13
Population Initialization
15
Crossover Operators and Mutation
17
FIPP Recovery Algorithm
Step 3：FIPP Cycle Finding Algorithm
19
y Goal
y Building FIPP p-cycles for the unprotected requires,
y Algorithm Procedures:
y Initial p-cycle Phase： Establishing a p-cycle of an 
unprotected working path.
y Add connections Phase：
y Add working paths that both it’s end-point nodes 
was on cycle.
y Add  working paths that both it’s end-point nodes 
wasn’t on cycle.
FIPP Recovery Algorithm
Step 3：FIPP Cycle Finding Algorithm
21
Adjust  Cycle
Two end-point 
isn’t on cycle
Working path is
node-disjoint to
others.
0 1
5
4
6
3
7
9 8
2
0 1
5
4
6
3
7
9 8
2
0 1
5
4
6
3
7
9 8
2
0 1
5
4
6
3
7
9 8
2
0 1
5
4
6
3
7
9 8
2
0 1
5
4
6
3
7
9 8
2
If procedure break
, it will be rehabilitated
Simulation Results 
experimental environment
23
y We use C++ programming language to implement
our recovery algorithms.
y All simulations are run on PC with Celeron 2 Duo
CPU 1.8 GHz 2.0 G RAM and VISTA O.S..
y Nodes failure order are generated randomly and 
the order is the same in the same simulation.
y Factors of recovery effect：
yWavelengths
y Connections
BRR performance- COST239
25
BRR Performance vs. # of wavelengths
27
29
～ Conclusions & Future works ～
Future works
31
y Path-Segment p-Cycles for node failure.
y Sharing NEPC.
y …
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 分波多工網路上節點故障保護環備用重新供給問題
計畫主持人: 丁德榮
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-018-015- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
Communications, vol.22, 
no.1, pp. 59-72, 2011. 
(SCI) 
(NSC-98-2221-E-018-009) 
研究報告/技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
2.Der-Rong Din ’GA-Based 
Hybrid Algorithm for MBR 
Problem of FIPP p-Cycles 
for Node Failure on 
Survivable WDM Networks,’ 
ICIC2011 2011 
International Conference 
on Intelligent Computing 
(ICIC2011) August 11-14, 
2011 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重
要國際合作、研究
成果國際影響力及
其他協助產業技術
發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘
述填列。) 
1.Der-Rong Din and Shu-Ling Tung ’A Study of Backup Re-provisioning 
Problem for FIPP P-cycles on WDM Networks with node-failure,’ Photonic 
Network Communications DOI: 10.1007/s11107-011-0328-9. (SCI) 
(NSC-99-2221-E-018-015) 
Der-Rong Din and Hsin-Chi Lai, ’A Study of Backup Re-provisioning Problem 
for FIPP P-cycles on WDM Networks,’ Photonic Network Communications, 
vol.22, no.1, pp. 59-72, 2011. (SCI) (NSC-98-2221-E-018-009) 
2.Der-Rong Din and Shu-Ling Tung ’Protection Recovery for Node-Encircling 
p-cycle after Nodes Failure in WDM Mesh Networks,’ submitted to Computer 
Communications for possible publication. (SCI) (NSC-99-2221-E-018-015)
3.Der-Rong Din ’GA-Based Hybrid Algorithm for MBR Problem of FIPP p-Cycles 
for Node Failure on Survivable WDM Networks,’ ICIC2011 2011 International 
Conference on Intelligent Computing (ICIC2011) August 11-14, 2011 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China (EI) (NSC-99-2221-E-018-015) 
4.丁德榮,洪琦岩,陳鈺全,王泓茵,涂仲洋,’’具有 FIPP p-cycle 保護的虛擬拓
樸最佳轉換順序問題,’’ TANET 2010, Taiwan Academic Network Conference, 
台南，台灣 10 月 27 日-29 日, 2010. (NSC-96-2213-E-018-007) 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
科 測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
