中文摘要 
 
失智症是眾多老人常見問題之一，會使老人在生活、情緒及身體健康等方
面產生階段性地惡化，由於失智症初期的症狀不明顯，經常被民眾錯認為是正常
的老化過程之一，錯失治療的黃金期。而一旦發病後，則生活會失去自理能力，
出門不認得回家的路，嚴重影響到生命安全，造成失智老年人本身及其照顧者很
大的困擾。 
本研究目的主要是開發一套失智老人健康照護整合服務系統，除了提供一
結構式臨床失智評量系統(SCDR)，讓一般非專業的人員也能藉由此一資訊平台
之評量結果，來掌握家中長者認知能力的情況，能夠早期發現此一疾病外，同時
也建構一套失智老人室內與戶外走失協尋系統，來加強老人走失意外事件的預
防，避免不幸事情的發生。我們所設計的 Web-base 失智評量系統的表單內容主
要整合 CDR、ADL 與 IADL 等量表，本系統目前已經正式在醫學中心使用，累
積超過 150 筆個案資料，這些個案經由系統評估後，其中 5 人有可疑失智症狀，
輕度失智程度有 27 人，中度失智程度有 31 人，重度失智程度有 87 人。另外我
們針對失智量表個案的評估分數與評估量表項目進行進一步分析，結果顯示隨著
個案失智程度提升，個案的 ADL 與 IADL 分數皆呈現下滑趨勢；而評估項目所
使用的記憶力、定向力、判斷力與問題解決能力、社區事務、居家嗜好、自我照
顧等六個向度也與個案的失智程度呈現正相關性。 
失智老人室內監控與戶外走失協尋系統主要是整合無線射頻身分識別系統 
(RFID)、衛星定位系統 (GPS)、行動數據通訊 (GSM) 以及地理資訊系統 (GIS) 
等技術，在不影響到老人生活的情況下，建構一套失智老人走失預防與協尋系
統。本研究總共提出包括室內活動區域監控、戶外活動區域監控、緊急求救機制
與遠端監控模式等四種監控機制。在使用者介面設計方面，透過服務管理平台，
家屬或志工可以利用手機、PDA、Notebook 以及 PC 等各種不同的行動裝置，
掌握走失老人的即時位置。而在協尋系統效能與穩定度分析上，我們在不同地
形、不同時段、不同電信公司與不同手機型號情況下進行實驗，結果顯示 240
次實驗中的通報簡訊，都可以被系統 100%的接收以及處理，系統平均在 35 秒左
右可以提供眷屬失智老人最新的位置資訊，位置誤差評估為 8 公尺。最後在 11
位使用者意見調查結果顯示，有 8 位受訪者滿意我們系統的表現，有 10 位願意
推薦親人使用本系統。 
 
關鍵字：失智症、感測網路、RFID 
 
outdoor activity area monitoring, emergency rescue, and remote monitoring. The 
services provided in each mode are described as follows. 
1. Indoor residence monitoring mode: This system can automatically detect if an 
elderly person with dementia enters or leaves certain specific areas such as a 
kitchen or bathroom, or leaves home alone without notice. When an elderly 
person leaves home alone, the system sends a warning message to the call center 
through a wireless network.  
2. Outdoor activity area monitoring mode: Once the patient leaves the preset area, 
an alarm signal will be sent to family members via a GSM network. 
3. Emergency rescue mode: When elderly finds himself or herself in an emergency 
situation, he or she can press the emergency rescue button to send an emergency 
message to the call center.  
4. Remote monitoring mode: Family members can connect to the call center when 
they want to know the current location of an elderly. 
Whenever one of the aforementioned abnormal situations happens to a patient 
(Fig. 1), the location monitoring device will immediately send out a message 
containing the patient's status and GPS information to the call center. After the call 
center receives this data packet, it will convert the longitude and latitude coordinates 
into a street map location using a GPS and GIS parser, and combine this location with 
other basic information such as personal characteristics, height, weight, and 
photograph to generate the complete information needed for search and assistance 
tasks. In order to facilitate search work, different operating interfaces are provided so 
that search volunteers or family members can obtain relevant information concerning 
the missing person via mobile phone, PDA, or notebook PC, etc. 
B. Conceptual Database Model 
When a patient is missing, the system will produce multiple Tracing Information 
Packages (TIPs) recording the whole search process. A TIP is defined as TIP(TIPID, 
EventID, EdlerID, State, DateTime) where TIPID is the increasing serial number of 
each TIP, EventID is the unique event ID, and ElderID is the elder's social ID number 
referred to as ELDER entity. In order to trace event status, the TIP also includes State 
and DateTime properties. The State property is used to describe the tracing mode, and 
includes the five states of leaving home (H state), leaving activity area (A state), 
emergency rescue situation (E state), remote single location report (S state), periodic 
location report (P state), and event close (C state). The DateTime property records the 
time of each TIP. The State and DateTime properties enable users to reconstruct the 
tracing procedures of each event. When an event occurs (could be active rescue signal 
from the elderly or remote monitoring), an EventID will be issued. Throughout the 
rescue searching session, every reply record by the locating device will be marked 
with the same EventID.  
As shown in Fig. 2, an Entity-Relationship (ER) diagram can be used to model 
wireless healthcare service system scenarios for patients with dementia [8-9]. 
ELDER entity, DEPENDENT entity, and VOLUNTEER entity respectively contain 
the attributes of patients with dementia, elders’ family members, and volunteer 
workers providing searching service. Because an elder may have more than one stray 
event, the EVENT entity may have a one-to-many relationship. EVENT attributes 
 
The indoor residence motion sensor is installed beside the main entrance of the 
elder’s home to detect whether the elder’s tag has appeared within a range of two 
meters. When the sensor detected the RFID tag either while the elder either entering 
or closing to the hot area, a timer is started. If a family member’s tag is detected 
within a preset time T (T is 3 minutes in this study) indicating that the elder is 
accompanied by a family member, and then the timer is stopped. If on the contrary a 
family member’s tag is not detected within a preset time T, indicating that the elder is 
leaving home alone, then our system will transmit an alarm short message via GSM to 
relevant personnel, who can initiate various necessary measures to prevent the elder 
from getting lost. 
The body-attached rescue locator device is consisted of a low-power 
microcontroller, a GSM module, GPS module, power management, and other I/O 
circuit. For the continuous tracking mode, the locator reports GPS information every 
three minutes via GSM/SMS, if it takes 15 seconds to send a short message, the 
locator can last for 495 minutes (~8.25 H), theoretically. The locator reports the 
geographical position via GSM network under different operating modes. Even when 
the patient has entered a building where GPS signal is invalid, the system can report 
the location and time of the last available GPS information that can be used as the 
clue for searching patients. 
The Database Server, H-GIS, Short Message Controller and Web Service Server 
are implemented on four independent server systems. Only the Web Service Server 
has an external IP address; the other servers are all located within a firewall to 
enhance the system security. As shown in Fig. 3, to overcome the problem that GPS 
are usually limited by bad weather, landscapes and buildings (e.g., indoor), our system 
will not only record the last valid GPS coordinates but also utilize GSM location to 
trace the location of the elder. When the GPS signal is invalid, the patient’s location 
information can be attained via the GSM locating service provided by local GSM 
Network Company. Though the precision is not as good as GPS, it can resolve the 
problem of not being able to locate the elder in bad weather conditions.  
For the data display, our system provides a PC-based user interface (UI), 
PDA-based UI, MMS mode, and SMS mode to display data. When Short Message 
Controller receives the latest GPS data from the elderly, H-GIS will immediately 
produce two GIS images with different resolutions (480×480 and 240×240) used to 
display appropriate GIS on different devices. This also help lessen the loading of 
backend servers when multiple users try to browse the data of a same case at around 
the same time, the server does not need to produce GIS images repeatedly since the 
images are produced once in advance. When users are connected to the system via PC 
or PDA, the system can determine the monitor resolution of the device by version of 
the browser and provide appropriate image format to let the user get adaptive 
messages in different devices.  
As far as performance evaluation experiments were concerned, the system 
response time including the time needed for the location signal to be processed and 
transmitted from the patient to the servers (Time1), the data processing time of the 
servers (Time2), and the transmission time from the servers to the GSM users (Time3) 
were measured for users with mobile phones from three different service providers 
(top three in market share and with a total market share above 75%) at same time. As 
can be observed from Fig. 4, Time1 is mainly composed of locator processing time 
 
 real-time location of the missing patient via different mobile devices. Analysis of 
system performance and reliability using different telecoms and different models of 
mobile phones reveals that the system can provide family members with the patient's 
latest location information within 34 seconds. All short messages were received and 
processed by our system correctly. 
V. Reference 
[1]  Hofman A, Rocca WA, Brayne C, Breteler MMB, Clarke M, Cooper B, Copeland 
JRM, Dartigues JF, Droux ADS, Hagnell O, Herren TJ, Engedal K, Joker C, 
Lindesay J, Lobo A, Mann AH, Molsa PK, Morgan K, O’Connor DW, Sulkava R, 
Kay DWK and Amaducci L. “The prevalence of dementia in Europe: a 
collaborative study of 1980-1990 findings” International Journal of Epidemiology, 
20, pp. 736-748, 1991 
[2]  Kokmen E, Beard CM, Offord KP. “Prevalence of medically diagnosed dementia 
in a defined United States population: Rochester, Minnesota. January 1, 1975.”, 
Neurology, 39, pp .773-776, 1989  
[3]  Brayne C, Gill C, Huppert FA . Incidence of clinically diagnosed subtypes 
dementia in an elderly population: Cambridge project for later. British Journal of 
Psychiatry, 167, pp. 255-262, 1995 
[4]  Bachman DL, Wolf PA and Lin RT, “Incidence of dementia and probable 
Alzheimer’s disease in a general population: The Framingham study. Neurology, 
43, pp. 515-519, 1993 
[5]  Liu CK, Lin RT, Chen YF, Tai CT, Yen YY, Howng SL. “Prevalence of dementia 
in an urban area in Taiwan. Journal of the Formosan Medical Association”, pp. 
762-768. 1996 
[6]  Liu HC, Fuh JL and Wang SJ. “Prevalence and subtypes of dementia in a rural 
Chinese population”, Alzheimer. Disease and Associated pp. 127-134, Disorder, 12, 
1998 
[7]  Yip PK, Shyu YI, Liu SI, Lee JY, Chou CF and Chen RC. “An epidemiological 
survey of dementia among elderly in an urban district of Taipei.” Acta 
Neurologyica Sinica, 1, 347-354,1992 
[8]  Ramez Elmasri and Shamkant B. Navathe, Fundamentals of Database Systems, 
4th edition, Addison Wesley, 2003 
[9]  Abraham Silberschatz, Henry F. Korth and S. Sudarshan, Database System 
Concepts, 4th edition, McGraw-Hill, 2002 
[10]  Roy Want, “Enabling ubiquitous sensing with RFID”, Computer, pp. 84-86, Apr. 
2004 
[11]  Lionel M. Ni, Yunhao Liu, Yiu Cho Lau and Abhishek P. Patil, “LANDMARC: 
Indoor location sensing using active RFID”, Proceedings of the First IEEE 
International Conference on Pervasice Computing and Communications, 2003 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. ER diagram of wireless healthcare service system for elderly with dementia. 
 
 Fig. 4. The diagram to depict the experiment design of performance evaluation. 
 
