 2
efficiency.  In addition, we generalized some siphon-related theory of Ordinary PN (OPN) to 
General PN (GPN) and improve our synthesis rules for GPN.   
Our 93 NSC proposal is successful.  The most distinguished result is that we have developed 
a new liveness condition called max’-controlled siphons to replace that of the absence of empty 
siphons. This beats the result of deadly marked siphons in the literature, which is incorrect as we 
have found. Note that the proposal did not deal with deadlock control. Yet, we attempt to do a 
preliminary study on such topic.  The result is encouraging and hence we propose this year to 
continue the study consolidating our leading position.  We will investigate deadlock control issues 
for S2NPGR2 (Systems of Synchronized choice Net processes with General Resource) and S3PGR2 
(Systems of Weighted Synchronized choice Net processes with General Resource).  We will study 
how to add control nodes and arcs upon S2NPGR and S3PGR2 to avoid deadlocks and the properties 
of the controlled net.   
Abdallah and Elmaraghy [2] proposed S4R, which are a generalization of S3PR nets, to extend 
S3PR and production Petri nets (PPNs) nets to model systems that can use not only alternative 
resources, as in S3PR nets, but they can also utilize more than one resource simultaneously.  They 
adopted deadlock prevention policy by adding a control place for each siphon to remain marked for 
all reachable markings.  Further, they introduced a deadlock avoidance policy (DAP) to control the 
augmented S4R nets using a resource allocation policy based on the unsafe marking concept.  With 
a look-ahead procedure, the controller determines one step of future evolution before making a 
resource allocation decision.  However, it may be in deadlock in some cases and a recovery 
procedure may be started. 
 Park and Reveliotis [3] proposed S3PGR2 (systems of simple sequential processes with general 
resources requirement) based on a new siphon construct, called deadly marked siphons (DMS).  
They developed, based on the derived siphon-based liveness characterizations, a sufficiency test for 
the correctness of CD-RAS DAP that can be expressed a set of invariants imposing control places, 
superimposed on the PN modeling the original RAS behavior.  However, the absence of DMS is 
only necessary, but not sufficient, to the liveness of the model.  A S3PGR2 net without DMS is 
deadlock-free but may be in livelock states. 
    Tricas and Martinez [4] proposed a similar system, called WS3PSR (weighted systems of 
simple sequential processes with several resources). It differs from S3PGR2 in two aspects: 1. a 
place can represent the use of various resources simultaneously. 2. there is no need of releasing 
resources used in the present state before advancing to the next state.  However, the policy is very 
restrictive so that it sequentializes the flow in the siphon.  The marking imposed to the control 
places limits the number of processes that can flow in the problematic areas to the minimum.  
They admitted that further work must be done to find better control places and better markings. 
All these approaches suffer from incorrect theory based on deadly marked siphons (DMS).  A 
net with DMS is not live and conversely, a live net does not have DMS.  However the absence of 
DMS does not guarantee all transitions in the net be live; it may be weakly live or in livelock states. 
In order to provide optimum control, we need first to find the correct condition for liveness.  The 
theory is proposed with new definitions and lemmas below.  Afterwards, we present a preliminary 
proposal for adding control nodes and arcs.  We admit that they may not be rigorously correct and 
hence subject to further research.   
Li et al. [5] proposed simpler Petri net controllers based on the concept of elementary siphons 
(generally much smaller than the set of all strict minimum siphons (SMS) in large Petri nets) to 
minimize the new additions of place. SMS can be divided into two groups: elementary and 
redundant; characteristic T-vectors of the latter are linear combinations of that of the former.  
They add a control place for each elementary siphon with no new SMS generation by the 
method in [5]. In the mean time, it controls all other SMS (i.e., always marked) too. Thus, the 
number of control places is much smaller and, therefore, is suitable for large-scale Petri nets. 
However, it is unclear how to extend it to S3PGR2 and S2CPGR2 and have not been studied so 
far. We propose to pioneer such study. 
 4
systems of equations of characteristic T-vectors. 
  The theory and example are shown in [10]. This greatly simplifies the search of elementary 
siphons and the control policy for weighted S3PR and S3PGR2. 
 
四、參考文獻 
 
[1] J. Ezpeleta, J. M. Couvreur, and M. Silva, “A new technique for finding a generating family of siphons, traps, and st-components: Application to 
colored Petri nets,” in Advances in Peti Nets 1993, G. Rozenberg, Ed. New York: Springer-Verlag, 1993, vol. 674, Lecture Notes on Computer 
Science, pp. 126–147. 
[2] I. B. Abdallah and A. Elmaraghy, “Deadlock prevention and avoidance in FMS: A Petri net based approach,” Int. J. Adv. Manuf. Technol., vol.14, 
no. 10, pp. 704–715, 1998. 
[3] J. Park and S. A. Reveliotis, “Deadlock avoidance in sequential resource allocation systems with multiple resource acquisitions and flexible 
routings,” IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr., vol. 46, pp. 1572–1583, Dec. 2001. 
[4] F. Tricas and J. Martinez, “An extension of the liveness of concurrent sequential processes competing for shared resources,” in Proc. IEEE Int. 
Conf. System, Man, Cybernetics, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 1995, pp. 4119–4124. 
[5] Z. Li and M. Zhou, “Elementary Siphons of Petri Nets and Their Application to Deadlock Prevention in Flexible Manufacturing Systems,” IEEE 
Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern. A, 34(1), 2004, pp. 38-51. 
[6] D. Y. Chao, ”Deadlock Control for Systems of Simple Sequential Processes with Weighted Resources Requirement (S3PWR2),” submitted to 
Journal of Information Science and Engineering.. 
[7] D. Y. Chao, ”A Better Controllability Test for Some Dependent Siphons in S3PR Based on Elementary Siphons,” submitted to IEEE Transactions 
on System, Man, and Cybernetics—PART A: systems and humans, Aug.. 2007. 
[8] D. Y. Chao, ”Conditions of S3PR With No Weakly Dependent Siphons,” submitted to IEEE Transactions on System, Man, and 
Cybernetics—PART A: systems and humans, Feb. 2007. 
[9]  D. Y. Chao, ”Computation of Elementary Siphons for Arbitrary S3PR,” 1st revision, EE Proceedings Control Theory & Applications. 
[10] D.Y. Chao, “Comments on “Elementary Siphons of Petri Nets and Their Application to Deadlock Prevention in Flexible Manufacturing 
Systems,” IEEE Transactions on System, Man, and Cybernetics—PART A: systems and humans, Jan. 2007, awaiting EIC decision. 
[11] D.Y. Chao, “Deadlock Control of S3PGR2 Based on Max*-Controlled and Elementary Siphons,” IEEE Trans. Automat. Contr. 1st revision.  
[12] D.Y. Chao, “Comments on “Deadlock prevention and avoidance in FMS: A Petri net based approach,” to appear in International Journal of 
Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 2007. 
[13] Daniel Yuh Chao, “Max’-Controlled Siphons for Liveness of S3PGR2,” IEE Proceedings Control Theory & Applications, vol. 1; no. 4; July 2007; 
pp. 933-936. 
[14] Daniel Yuh Chao, “Max-Controlled Siphons and A Special First Order Structure,” IEE Proceedings Control Theory & Applications, 1st reision. 
[15] Daniel Yuh Chao, “AMS: V-Nets or NV-Nets?,” Distributed Computing, under review. 
[16] D. Y. Chao, “Searching Strict Minimal Siphons for SNC-Based Resource Allocation Systems,” Journal of Information Science and Engineering, 
vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 853-867 (May 2007). 
[17] D. Y. Chao, “On Structural Conditions of S3PR Nets without Weakly Dependent Siphons,” IEEE Transactions on System, Man, and 
Cybernetics—PART A: systems and humans, Jan. 2007, awaiting EIC decision. 
[18] Daniel Yuh Chao, “A Graphic-Algebraic Computation of Elementary Siphons of BS3PR,” to appear in Journal of Information Science and 
Engineering. 
[19] Daniel Yuh Chao, “A Simple Effective Deadlock Prevention Policy of S3PR Based on Elementary Siphons,” submitted to IEEE Transactions on 
Elect. Inform.  
[20] Daniel Yuh Chao, “Comments on “Two-Stage Method for Synthesizing Liveness-Enforcing Supervisors for Flexible Manufacturing Systems 
Using Petri Nets”,” submitted to IEEE Transactions on Elect. Inform. 
[21] Daniel Yuh Chao, “Corrections on “Siphon-Based Deadlock Prevention Policy for Flexible Manufacturing Systems,” submitted to IEEE 
Transactions System, Man, and Cybernetics—PART A. 
[22] Daniel Yuh Chao, “Elimination of Weighted Arcs of A Deadlock Prevention Policy for Flexible Manufacturing Systems,” submitted to IEEE 
Transactions System, Man, and Cybernetics—PART A. 
[23] Daniel Yuh Chao, “Reducing MIP iterations for Deadlock Prevention of Flexible Manufacturing Systems,” to be submitted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
