 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
電/磁刺激視覺相關穴位誘發腦電位之評估與實現 
眼睛保健刺激器  
Evaluating the Brain Potentials Evoked by Electric/Magnetic 
Stimulation to Vision-Related Acupoints and Implementing an 
Eye-Care Stimulator 
 
計畫編號: NSC 95-2221-E-218-004 
執行期限: 95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
 
主持人: 梁治國     南台科技大學電機工程研究所 
共同主持人: 蔡子同      國立成功大學醫學院神經部 
 
一、 中文摘要 
 
    棋格翻轉-視覺誘發電位可利用螢幕交替式棋盤圖案刺激而得到，亦是眼科
疾病檢查常用的方法。所以，本計畫建立了耳穴電刺激與視覺誘發電位特性評估
之系統平台，以探討耳穴電刺激對視覺誘發電位之影響，並進行耳穴電刺激最佳
化之研究。首先，利用此系統平台並訂出適當的實驗設計，並以EEGLAB分析電
刺激前後視覺誘發電位之變化。方法為刺激選雙耳之眼穴，腦波記錄以枕區Oz為
主，刺激參數初期先改變電刺激頻率1~5 Hz，並固定其他相關參數，結果發現當
刺激頻率在2 Hz時P100之潛伏期變化最大且p = 0.003，表示此刺激頻率可能對視
神經有最大的影響。同時，也藉此成果已開發出眼睛保健用之耳穴電刺激器雛型。 
 
關鍵詞：視覺誘發電位、耳穴、電刺激、潛伏期 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
    Pattern-reversal visual evoked potential (PR-VEP) can be obtained by 
stimulating eyes via screen pattern-reversal, which is usually used as an important 
diagnosis tool for eye’s diseases. Thus, this project aims to implement a system 
platform by combining the functions of auricular acupoint stimulation and PR-VEP 
performance analysis, to evaluate the influence of electrical stimulation on the variety 
of PR-VEP, and to make the research of acupoint stimulation optimization. First, we 
will utilize the platform to define a proper experimental design and analyze the 
difference of PR-VEP by EEGLAB from the data recorded before and after the 
stimulation. Next, in the experimental design the eye points of two ears are selected 
and the recording electrode is mainly located on the Oz position. Also, other 
stimulation parameters are fixed except the stimulation frequency changing from 1 to 
5 Hz. The experimental results show that when the stimulation frequency is chosen to 
be 2 Hz, the latency difference of P100 is the maximum and p = 0.003. So, it verifies 
that this frequency could have the greatest influence on visual nerves.  Meanwhile, 
 2
NI DAQ 卡送出 5V 方波，以建立評估系統平台之用，另一種是由 PIC 單晶片來
控制，此方法是為單獨設計成可攜式眼睛保健電刺激器而用，此兩種方法本計畫
是同步進行的。其中之 PIC 單晶片選用 PIC10F206，用來控制刺激頻率與刺激時
間。除 PIC 單晶片外，其餘茲分述如下： 
1. 隔離電路：主要是讓電刺激電路電源與   主電源隔離，避免主電路與人體間
形成漏電迴路。 
2. 單相轉雙相電路：在雙極刺激狀況下，若使用對稱雙相波時，負極當主動電
極可引起較大肌肉收縮，且負極具有較高濃度負電離子，可造成去極化現象
引發動作電位。 
3. 定電流電路：將雙相電路送出之訊號，經由電壓電流轉換器，形成電壓控制
型電流源。 
上述定電流電路部份主要是以高速差動運算放大器 AD8130 加上高速 FET 型
運算放大器 AD8066 來完成，此電路穩定性高、零件很少，可減少整體電路的體
積和重量，又可符合攜帶性的要求，且此電路做成多段的定電流輸出選擇，主要
是可調整人對耳穴刺激之忍受程度，並可由電腦輸出電壓控制其脈衝電流(< 5 
mA)、脈衝寬度(100~200 μs)與刺激頻率(1~5 Hz)，如圖二所示。 
 
 
 
圖二 定電流電路圖 
 
3-3 腦波放大器設計 
本系統之八通道腦波放大器 (如圖一所示)，第一級箝制差動放大器電路倍率
預設為 10 倍，電路中採用了二個同相輸入的運算放大器，因而具有極高的輸入
阻抗，且此電路所使用的 TL084，藉由高輸入阻抗特性及放大器電路之閉迴路增
益設計，提高了 CMRR，也降低了 60Hz 的共模干擾，同時，箝制訊號輸入，亦
減低電極極化電位的不良影響。儀表放大器採用了 BURR-BROWN 的 INA121，
放大倍率設定為 11 倍，CMRR 值約 108dB。 
    後級放大器部分，因箝制放大器部分放大倍率為 10 倍，所以後續電路之放
大倍率大約設定為 150 倍，整體前端放大器之總放大倍率約為 16,500 倍，可將
腦波訊號放大約至 1V，以利於訊號數位化。同時，帶通濾波器設計在約 0.5 ~ 50Hz
之間。 
 
 
3-5 棋格翻轉人機介面與 EEGLAB 訊號處理分析  
螢幕棋格翻轉人機介面主要是由LabVIEW撰寫程式來實現。接著，將棋格
翻轉控制刺激之頻率，送到DAQ卡的數位輸出端，並經Printer port送出刺激時間
 4
 
圖五 八通道 α波測試 
 
 
一般人從開眼轉閉眼後，α波會很明顯的增強，即頻率下降，如圖六(a)所
示。圖中可看到左半圖開眼時之 C3、Cz 及 C4 點波形明顯是多為β波，而右半圖
閉眼後之所有點波形則變為α波(大約以 12Hz 為中心)，其中 C4 波(綠色)振幅最
強，如右下方之頻譜圖所示。另外，以 Neuroscan 的 Nuamps 腦波機所量測的開
眼轉閉眼之波形(b)圖做比對，結果是符合的。由於放大器穩定性尚待改善，因
此，在本計畫之電刺激與視覺誘發電位特性研究方面，先暫以國際知名 NuAmps
腦波儀(NeuroScan)來替代。 
 
 
 
圖六 開眼轉閉眼時 C3、Cz 與 C4 點腦波測試 
並與 Neuroscan 腦波機之測試結果做比對 
 
 
 
 
 6
 
 
 
表一  視覺刺激與耳朵眼穴電刺激之 
實驗設計參數 
 棋格翻轉 
視覺刺激 
翻轉次數 100 次，翻轉頻率 2 Hz  
 
雙耳電刺激 
 
刺激時間 90 秒，強度 1 mA 
刺激頻率 1-5 Hz 
 
 
棋格翻轉 
視覺刺激 
翻轉次數 100 次，翻轉頻率 2 Hz 
休息 30 分鐘 
 
 
 
 
 
4-3 視覺誘發電位之 EEGLAB 分析圖 
視覺誘發電位主要是由閃光刺激與棋格翻轉所誘發出來的，一般人的誘發電
位潛伏期(Latency)大約在 100 毫秒(即 P100)附近，意即在 N75-P100-N135 之間
會出現高峰。圖十是其中一種電刺激情況下用 EEGLAB 分析所得到的棋格翻轉
之誘發電位，圖(a)是眼穴刺激前之 ERP Image，其中可明顯的觀察到 P104 其振
幅為 18.64 μV，圖(b)是眼穴刺激後之 ERP Image，其中可明顯的觀察到 P102 其
振幅為 19.32 μV，結果顯示眼穴刺激後視覺誘發電位潛伏期微降，振幅微升。 
 
 
 
圖十 (a)電刺激前之 ERP Image (b) 電刺激後之 ERP Image 
 
 
 
4-4 電刺激前後視覺誘發電位之統計分析 
    選年輕受測者(23~24 歲，7~9 人)來做電刺激前後之棋格翻轉實驗，並觀察
刺激頻率 1~5 Hz 變化之相關性，結果如表二(a)(b)所示。由表二可知，棋格翻轉
視覺誘發電位之潛伏期在刺激頻率是 2 Hz 時有顯著之差異，而振幅都沒顯著差
異。圖十一更進一步的說明 2 Hz 電刺激前後視覺誘發電位之 Latency 之相差值
 8
參考文獻 
 
[1] Ross Dunseath W.J. and Kelly E.F. (1995), “Multichannel PC-based 
data-acquisition system for high-resolution EEG,” IEEE Transactions on 
Biomedical Engineering, vol. 42, pp.1212-1217. 
[2] Sagara Y., Fuse N., Seimiya M. et al. (2006), ”Visual function with acupuncture 
tested by visual evoked potential,” Tohoku Journal of Experiment Medicine, vol. 
209, pp. 235-241. 
[3] Li G., Cheung T.F., Ma Q.Y., and Yang E.S. (2003),”Visual cortical activations on 
fMRI upon stimulation of the vision-implicated acupoints,” Neuroreport, vol. 14, 
pp. 669-673. 
[4] Lee H. et al. (2002), ”Acupuncture stimulation of the vision-related acupoint 
(BL-67) increases c-Fos expression in the visual cortex of binocularly deprived 
rat pups,” The American Journal of Chinese Medicine, vol. 30, pp. 379-385. 
[5] Sator-Katzenschlager M.S., Szeles J.C., and Scharbert G. (2003), ”Electrical 
stimulation of auricular acupuncture points is more effective than conventional 
manual auricular acupuncture in chronic cervical pain: A pilot study pain 
medicine,” Chronic Cervical Pain and Acupuncture Anesth Analog, vol. 97, pp. 
1469–1473. 
[6] Sator-Katzenschlager M.S., and Michalek-Sauberer A. (2007), ”P-Stim auricular 
electroacupuncture stimulation device for pain relief,” Expert Review of Medical 
Devices, vol. 4, pp. 23-32.  
 
研究成果自評： 
本計畫原申請二年，題目是「電及磁刺激視覺相關穴位誘發腦電位之評估與
實現眼睛保健刺激器」，但因謹通過一年，因此，本計畫祇執行「電刺激視覺相
關穴位誘發腦電位之評估與實現眼睛保健刺激器」特此說明。 
本計畫已完成一耳穴電刺激與視覺誘發電位特性評估之系統平台，並可用以
探討耳穴電刺激對視覺誘發電位之影響，以及進行耳穴電刺激最佳化之研究，惟
可攜式保健刺激器尚待後續計畫改良。本計畫對耳穴電刺激對視覺誘發電位之影
響已有良好初步成果，待相關數據周全後可發表於國際期刊。 
 10
表 Y04 
一、 參加會議經過 
本次 2006 年世界醫學物理與生物醫學工程國際研討會於韓國首爾市之貿易展覽
中心(COEX)舉行，時間是從 8/27/2006~ 9/1/2006，共約五天半的會期，由於此
次大會同時結合亞太電阻抗、健康照護、呼吸照護及電腦輔助手術之相關會議，
因此，規模較三年前在澳洲雪梨舉辦的還要盛大。本次之會議場所計有可容納
一千人之演講廳外，主要活動都集中於一個可容納 2500 人之展示廳，供壁報、
廠商及表演節目，以及超過 30 間可容內 50 人以上之小型研討室，可說是大手
筆。本次會議議程，除了第一天下午（PM: 6:00）的開幕典禮外，其餘五天各項
專題研討會，都從早上 8:00 就有人進行 Oral 的口頭報告及海報論文的張貼。此
次三年舉行一次之研討會因為涵蓋了 25 大領域及上述四大重點，共有來自歐、
美、亞等洲，超過 3000 人的參與，總計大會在五天的議程中安排了：(1) 商品
展示廠家共 32 家，(2)論文發表來自超過 40 個國家，壁報論文展示及口頭論文
報告的總量超過 2500 件並分成 25 Track 及上述四個輔助主題進行發表。本次台
灣各單位在會議中發表的論文也有相當多，同時，在會場我陸續遇到來自台灣
各公私立大學的教授及研究生，有：(1)中華民國生物醫學工程學會鄭國順理事
長，(2)中原大學醫工系：張桓雄、蘇振隆、胡威志 3 位教授，(3)義守大學醫工
系王家鍾主任，（4）元培科技大學醫工系劉省弘主任，（5）南台科技大學電機
系：本人、陳世中、陳培展、陳彥廷與侯春茹等 5 位教授，(6)長榮大學資管系
王獻章教授；另外還有慈濟大學沈祖望教授、彰基醫院吳副院長以及台大醫工
所、成大電機所與醫工所 5~6 位博士班學生，這次總計國內大約有超過 30 個人
赴會。所發表之口頭論文與壁報論文等共約 40 篇，因此有機會隨時與國內相關
學者交換心得，另外可能還有多位沒有遇見的台灣學者專家，可見台灣在醫學
工程的領域，也做了相當多的研究。 
 
本次大會議程共規劃有 25 項主題(Track 1~25)，茲整理如下：  
1. Physiological System Modeling, Control, and Physiome 
2. Bioinfoematics and Computational Biology 
3. Engineering for Genomics and Proteomics 
4. Micro and Nanotechnology in Medicine and Biology 
5. Information Technology in Healthcare  
6. Biosensors and Instrumentation 
7. Biosignal Processing and Analysis 
8. Biomedical Optics 
9. Diagnostic Imaging Physics and System 
10. Nuclear Medicine Physics and System 
11. Radiation Oncology Physics and System 
12. Dosimetry and Radiation Protection 
13. Particle Therapy Physics and Systems 
14. Image Processing, Analysis, and Visualization 
15. Bioelectricity and Biomagnetism 
16. Biomechanics and Rehabilitation Engineering 
17. Medical Robotics and Computer Assist Surgery 
 
 
 
 
二、  與會心得 
1. 參觀商品展示會場 
    本次參展廠商盛況空前，超過 30 家以上之廠商實地展示，知名的廠家計有：
BioPac System, Inc., BIONET, Brain Lab, Elekta, Fluke Biomedical, IOMP, IBA, ….
等，其中含國內大學實驗室及中心如漢城大學、漢陽大學、延世大學均有在現
場展出具商業潛力之醫療器材，令人震撼。另外中國大陸為爭取 2009 之舉辦權，
派出將近 300 人次參與此盛會，企圖心及各項強勢表現令人印象深刻。 
 
2. 參與海報論文展示 
因為本人的研究領域偏醫用儀器與神經工程的領域，因此藉此機會了解其他
國家相關的論文研究方向。個人就所關心的主題參加了相關時段的海報論文展
示，以下就參與觀感分別說明如后： 
(a) 神經工程應用包括植入式電刺激改善、微電極製造新技術、聽覺與視
覺神經義肢之訊號處理、還有透過磁刺激之腦神經工程都是本屆研討會
出現較多的研究子題。 
(b) 醫學儀器電子領域的研發，也是長期以來一直是重要的課題，這次
有一些新的研究，如：運用微機電製程於微流體分析、加入精密通
訊機制於生理量測、可程式化晶片應用於各式儀器設計、壓電元件
廣泛之應用如微注射器等。 
三、  建議: 
  此次參與如此大型的世界性的國際會議，藉由與會各國學者的參與，增加彼
此之間的交流，不但可以在專業的研究領域上互相切磋，更可以在彼此不同國
家的文化語言上，有更多的認識。這對於平常專心於教學研究的學者專家而言，
是一個不可多得的增廣見聞機會。在會中我們聽取他國的專家學者報告，我們
可以了解到，在作類似相關研究時，會因不同的文化背景，有不同的動機，不
同的思考模式與不同的解決方法。另外中國大陸由於經濟大幅改善，爭辦各項
國際會議之野心令人側目，這點我們國內主管機構不得不特別思考其後續效應。
  最後，我想不管是公私立大學，只要是有心從事學術研究的學者專家，國家
在經濟能力許可的前提下，應多予鼓勵出國參加國際性會議。衷心希望以後私
立學校的教授們能多多投稿國外期刊及國外研討會論文，國家也能多多補助私
立學校的教授們出國發表，這樣自然可以形成風氣，國家有更多的產官學做後
盾，自然也就有更穩固的世界性學術地位，進而可與他國競爭世界大會的主辦
權，希望不久的將來，世界性的學術研究大會，都會經常在台灣召開。 
 
 
四、  研討會場地：在韓國首爾市之貿易展覽中心(COEX)舉行。 
 
五、  攜回資料名稱及內容 
表 
 
 Y04 
 
 
 
 649 
 
Implementation and evaluation of the power device 
in an implantable biomedical system 
Chih-Kuo Liang1, Shih-Chung Chen1, and Jung-Tai Cheng1 
 
1
 Department of Electrical Engineering, Southern Taiwan University of Technology, Tainan, Taiwan 
Abstract—This study aims to implement a power device 
and to evaluate its characteristics for expecting to integrate it 
with an implantable biomedical system in the future. The 
power device mainly consists of a commercial Li-ion battery 
with a dimension of 30 x 20 x 4 mm3 and with a capacity of 
120 mAH, a charge IC, and a protection IC. First, from the  
results of the battery evaluation obtained by charge, dis-
charge, and cycle life tests, we find that the battery matches 
the basic requirements for applying it to implantable and 
rechargeable biomedical system. Further, in the following 
inductive powering experiment for the developed power de-
vice, we also find that, when the powering coupling distance 
is within 3 to 5 cm, the battery can be charged fully after 
about 50 minutes and still maintain low  temperature rise (< 1 
0C). Thus, if the power device is packaged properly, it can be 
applied to implantable biomedical system for long-term and 
safe usage. 
Keywords—secondary Li-ion battery, power device, im-
plantable biomedical system  
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Implantable biomedical system used for neural stimula-
tion and physiological signal recording through bi-
directional signal transmission in reasonable short distance 
can be designed to work via two types of power source, 
which could be inductive power [1,2] and/or battery power 
[3]. Among these two power sources, directly using induc-
tive power as the only source of the implant by wireless 
inductive coupling technology is mostly adopted due to this 
method being simple and safe. However, because that high 
energy density, high safety, and small size rechargeable Li-
ion battery and charging ICs technologies have been devel-
oped relative maturely, new generation implantable bio-
medical system extra embedded with a power source which 
contains a rechargeable battery and a charging circuitry will 
be considerable. The cause is that the embedded device can 
promote systematic characteristics like increases of opera-
tion time and parameter recording, reduction of surgery, etc. 
So, in this study, we will first start from carefully selecting 
a proper secondary battery used for this application. Then 
evaluate the battery properties according to the general 
requirements of implantable microsystem suggested by 
several papers [] and meanwhile using two types of charg-
ing protocol for comparison. Lastly, we will implement the 
power device and evaluate its charging characteristics via a 
practical wireless inductive powering source, that these 
results can be used as a basis for further integration study.   
 
II. MATERIALS AND METHODS 
A. Description of the power device 
A functional block diagram of implantable biomedical 
system for neural stimulation and physiological recording 
via bi-directional transmission technology is shown in Fig. 
1.  
 
 
 
Fig. 1 The functional block diagram of implantable biomedical system 
for neural stimulation and physiological recording via bi-directional trans-
mission technology, where the power device marked with a dot-type closed 
line is also included. 
 
In this figure, the power device is shown by marking 
with a dot-type closed line and the functional block diagram 
except the power device had been well developed [4] in our 
laboratory. The detailed circuitry of the power device is 
shown in Fig. 2 but the connection of temperature detection 
function is not shown here, which includes a secondary Li-
ion battery (AHB401430, Synergy Scientech Corp. of Tai-
wan), two main ICs (IC1 is a charge management IC Micro-
 651 
 
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
A. Charge test of the secondary battery 
From Fig. 3, we can find that under the charge condition 
of constant voltage of 4.2V and limited constant current of 
100 mA the battery is approximately close to a saturation 
state (about 4.15V) from its initial state ( about 3.2V) after 
about 55 minutes and at this time the temperature has a peak 
value. But, the battery temperature rise is still within 1 0C 
that this condition matches the charge requirements for the 
described system. Next, in Fig. 4 we also find that under the 
charge condition of constant voltage of 4.2 V and limited 
pulse current of 100 mA the result of battery temperature 
rise is better compared with the previous case. But the bat-
tery saturation time is longer at about 60 minutes.  
 
 
 
Fig. 3   Charge curves of the battery containing voltage and current 
change, and battery and environmental temperature change via time, which 
are obtained under the charge condition of constant voltage of 4.2 V and 
limited constant current of 100 mA 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4   Charge curves of the battery containing voltage and current 
change, and battery and environmental temperature change via time, which 
are obtained under the charge condition of constant voltage of 4.2 V and 
limited pulse current of 100 mA 
B. Discharge test of the secondary battery 
The battery discharge characteristics are shown in Fig. 5 
and 6 respectively, where the former is operated at the dis-
charge condition of constant current of 100mA and the 
latter is operated at the discharge condition of constant 
power of 50 mW. As shown in Fig. 5, the temperature rise 
is low, which is within 1 0C and the voltage drop is rapidly 
that is down to its normal working voltage of 3.8 V at about 
20 minutes. In Fig. 6, we find that the voltage drop is appar-
ently slower and the temperature change is much smoother. 
From these results, we know that the discharge mode is 
more safe compared with the constant current mode of 100 
mA. So, this discharge mode could be suitable in this study. 
 
 
Fig. 5   Discharge curves of the battery containing voltage and cur-
rent change, and battery and environmental temperature change via time, 
which are obtained under the discharge condition of constant current of 100 
mA. 
 
 
Fig. 6   Discharge curves of the battery containing voltage and cur-
rent change, and battery and environmental temperature change via time, 
which are obtained under the discharge condition of constant power of 50 
mW. 
C. Cycle life test of the secondary battery 
The cycle life test of the secondary battery is shown in 
Fig. 8.  We can find that the capacity fade of the constant 
voltage/limited pulse current protocol is smaller in compari-
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                     96 年 1 月 27 日 
報告人姓名 梁治國 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
南台科技大學電機系 
教授 
時間會議 
地點 
8/27/2006~9/1/2006 
韓國 首爾市 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC 95-2221-E-218-004
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 世界醫學物理與生物醫學工程國際研討會（WC 2006） 
 (英文)  World Congress on Medical Physics and Biomedical 
Engineering (WC 2006) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文) 可植入式生醫系統內電能裝置之實現與評估 (Poster)
(英文)  Implementation and evaluation of the power device in an 
implantable biomedical system (Poster, Code 2580) 
 
表  Y04 
     18. Artificial Organs 
     19. Drug Delivery and Therapeutic System 
     20. Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering 
     21. Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Systems 
     22. Neural Systems and Engineering 
     23. Physics and Engineering in Oriental Medicine 
     24. Clinical Engineering 
     25. Education, Training and Professional Development 
 
本人壁報報告之論文題目是 “Implementation and evaluation of the power 
device in an implantable biomedical system”，被安排在 8/28 日上午 10:00 Track 6: 
Biosensors and Instrumentation 這個 Session，有關本系統現況，鋰離子電池的植
入應用，現場有幾位學者詢及。在海報論文的展示會場中，發現有多人的海報
尺寸並不符合大會規定，而且在每一個 Session 交替換貼海報的時間，很少看到
工作人員在場，個人覺得這是不太妥的事情。本次研討會深覺韓國各大學從事
醫學工程研究的系所，幾乎是傾巢而出，各個領域皆有許多論文發表，有些知
名學府之研究亦深具前瞻性與商業性，除了給與會人員很深的印象外，他們的
表現值得我們警惕與學習。 
    本次會議本人除了上述壁報論文報告外，也利用時間參加與個人專長與研
究相關的主題：醫療儀器、生醫訊號處理、神經工程與東方醫學工程與物理。
醫療儀器方面(Track 6)，受人注目的有兩場 Invited Talk，其清楚地點出醫療儀器
發展前景與血壓量測方面的技術瓶頸與應用注意事項：    
1.  J. G. Webster—“The ten most important biomedical engineering devices” 
2.  A. Murray—“Blood Pressure Measurement: Device Principles, 
Applications, Standards and Accuracy” 
生醫訊號處理方面(Track 7)，主要還是著重在統計時/頻分析及 EEG 分析，其中
有兩場 Invited Talk 是談到小波轉換與時/頻分析相關應用技術探討，值得參考。
在神經工程方面(Track 22)，亦有兩場 Invited Talk 是談到聽覺與視覺神經義肢：
1. B. Wilson—“Cochlear Implants: A Remarkable Past and a Brilliant Future” 
2. C. Verarrt—“The Optic Nerve Visual Prosthesis” 
有關BCI的主題這次很少。另外，值得一提的是，此次增加了一個東方醫學工程
與物理的主題(Track 23)，這個主題與本人未來的研究有關，因此就多加注意一
下，其參加者絕大多數是韓國學者，其中K. S. Soh教授延續另一韓國學者B. H. 
Kim早在1960年發現的新循環系統，名為”Bonghan ducts (BHD)的研究，利用先
進的acridine organge、Feulgen reaction、fluorescent magnetic nanoparticle及Alcian 
blue染色技術，並以histological analysis、confocal laser scanning與electron 顯微
鏡技術，取得實際BHD結構的照片，且出現在許多不同的組織，包括中國傳統
所謂之經絡、血管、淋巴及器官表面，相當令人稱奇，不過，其相關特性仍有
賴相關研究機構進一步驗證。 
 
 
  
 
 表 Y04 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (1) WC 2006 (World Congress on Medical Physics and 
Biomedical Engineering) program book 
      (2) WC 2006 (World Congress on Medical Physics and 
Biomedical Engineering) Proceedings Disk 
(3) Some Exhibitor’s Data Sheets 
(4) A variety of Journals 
 
 
 
 
 
附錄： 
         
     國內學者相見歡                             開幕舞 
 
       
       廠商展示攤位                             會議舉辦地點(COEX) 
    
         論文海報現場解說 
 
 
 
650 
 
chip MCP73843 and IC2 is a protection IC Seiko S-8231), 
and other components.  Thus, this circuitry can carry out the 
functions of chare/discharge control, status indication, and 
fault protection. The power device will be implemented and 
evaluated by combining it with the RF front end and the 
regulator unit. The dimension of the completed power de-
vice is about 3 x 3 x 0.5 cm3. In the future, the power device 
will be integrated with the other units of the internal module 
for further study. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 The detailed circuitry of the power device, where the secondary 
battery is a Li-ion battery, IC1 is a charge management IC and IC2 is a 
protection IC. 
B. Evaluation of the secondary Li-ion battery 
Generally speaking, commercial secondary battery has 
already satisfied the safety criteria of UL1642. However, for 
that used for implantable biomedical applications, some 
requirements should be more seriously to be concerned 
which are in the field of safety, effectiveness, cycle life and 
size. The important requirements, while working in an envi-
ronment of body temperature 370C, are still to maintain: (1) 
high safety and energy density, (2) proper power capacity, 
(3) short charge/discharge time, (4) low temperature rise 
which is limited to small than 10C during charge/discharge 
cycle. Thus, in this study, assuming that the implant of the 
biomedical system made by discrete components consumes 
the maximum power of about 50 mW and waste the maxi-
mum charge time for reaching 100% of capacity to be 
within 1 hr, the Li-ion battery ANB401430 was selected and 
evaluated. If the power consumption is 50 mW as depicted 
above the battery can work continuously for 10 hrs and if 
the discharge current is 20 mA the battery can also work 
continuously for 10 hrs. These conditions are proper for 
such an application. The basic technical data of the selected 
battery is shown in Table 1. 
 Next, the properties of charge/discharge and cycle life of 
the battery are measured according to general battery test 
methods [5, 6], that the battery is placed inside a tempera-
ture controlled chamber of 37.80C. In the charge test, two 
protocols are used that are constant voltage (4.2 V)/limited 
constant current (0.1 A) and constant voltage (4.2 
V)/limited pulse current (0.1 A). In the discharge test, two 
protocols such as constant power (50 mW) and constant 
current (20 mA) are used. The cycle life test is also using 
two protocols that the first protocol is to use constant volt-
age (4.2 V)/limited constant current (0.1 A) to charge for 1 
hr plus constant power (50 mW) to discharge for 150 min-
utes as one cycle. Another protocol is to use constant volt-
age (4.2 V)/limited pulse current (0.1 A) to charge for 1 hr 
plus constant power (50 mW) to discharge for 150 minutes 
as one cycle. By using the charge/discharge protocol, the 
cycle life of the battery is tested continuously for 3000 hrs 
and then evaluates the level of capacity fade. All tests about 
charge, discharge, and cycle life properties are using the 
same cycle life machine LCN1-200-48 (Bitrode, USA). 
Table 1  Technical data for the tested lithium-ion battery 
Main parameter AHB401430 
Thickness (mm) 4.0 
Width (mm) 14 
 
Length (mm) 30 
 
Weight (g) 2.8 
 
Typical capacity (mAH) 120 
 
Typical working voltage (V) 3.8 
 
Operating temperature () -10~ 60  
 
Volumetric energy density (Wh/L) 271 
 
Gravimetric energy density (Wh/LKg)  163 
 
Initial internal impedance (mΏ) 180 
 
C. Evaluation of the power device 
    Utilizing the implemented power device and the induc-
tive power transmission/receiving related units, the power 
device is evaluated via two different charge protocols, 
which are constant voltage/limited constant current (Proto-
col 1) and constant voltage/limited pulse current (Protocol 
2). The two charge protocols can be set up from the charge 
IC1 manually. Here, the inductive power transmission and 
receiving related units include the external control module 
and transmission coil, and the internal receiving coil, RF 
front end, and voltage regulator. While evaluating, the dis-
tance between transmission coil and receiving coil is ad-
justed, the inductive charge power is monitored, and the 
testing environmental temperature is also set at 37.8 0C. The 
charge time is calculated according to the time of reaching 
to about 100% of the battery capacity. 
