II 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
在學術成就方面，我們針對次世代 4G 無線網路技術所重視的 Femtocell 系統，提出了可讓網路服務提
供商的期望利潤最大化的合約設計。此設計藉由 Macrocell 和 Femtocell之間的定價合作機制，針對消費者
的訊號品質進行差別取價，藉此達到利潤最大化的目標。藉由引入合約理論，我們保證使用者即使在自由意
志下依然願意遵守我們所設計的最佳化合約，並藉此保證網路服務提供商的利潤。 
在技術創新方面，我們團隊藉由對於賽局理論於無線網路研究應用的豐富經驗與知識，將研究領域延伸
到更具應用性的實務主題上。此類型的應用已逐漸獲得國內外學者重視。在建立此合約理論中，我們所建立
的數學模型與模擬模組除了適用本主題外，也成為我們在研究相關議題上的基石，在研究過程所獲取的經驗
讓研究團隊累積了更多的研究能量，也使我們在相關領域上處於領先地位。此外，我們的成果也將藉由報告
分享給國內外學術界參考，以期能激發更多具有前瞻性且有特色的學術與實務研究。  
  
4 
Abstract 
High-throughput data traffic has gained prominence in the mobile telecommuni-
cations. All next-generation wireless technologies such as 3G, WiMAX, and LTE are 
designed to fulfill the customers' requirements of high data rate traffic. But the service 
quality is never a grantee due to the nature of wireless communication. This not only 
degrades the utility of customers but also reduces the revenue of service provider.  
To overcome such predicament, the overlay macrocell-femtocell system is in-
troduced to enhance the service quality by reutilize spectrum with cognitive opera-
tions. Some operations of the femtocell are closely related to the technique used in 
cognitive radio network with primary-secondary user design. Our previous work, 
which has been published in IEEE Transaction on Vehicular Technology [4], dis-
cussed the radio resource management among base stations in a shared-spectrum 
wireless system. We proposed a credit-token based mechanism to promise the alloca-
tion efficiency, Pareto optimality, and weighted fairness.  
Despite the enhancements from the wireless system, we can also increase the 
revenue though designing a special type of contracts, entitled the price-discrimination 
contracts. Such contracts have been used in wired internet services for years. The 
main idea is to discriminate the MSs with better channel qualities from others, and 
then charge them higher prices for using higher data rate wireless services.  
We propose a novel wireless service revenue framework to investigate the effect 
of overlay system in increasing revenue. The optimal incentive compatible contract 
designs in different scenarios are investigated. Numerical results show that optimal 
contracts extract more revenue than traditional fixed-price contract in both single cell 
and overlay system. We also confirm that the overlay macrocell-femtocell system in-
deed increases the revenue of service providers when interference is not severe. 
 
1 Introduction
Along with the growing population of Internet users, the major demand of
customers in today’s mobile telecommunications has been shifted from voice
traffic to data traffic. All next-generation wireless technologies such as 3G,
WiMAX, and LTE are designed to fulfill the customers’ requirements of high
data rate traffic. Most wireless service providers (SPs) offer ”unlimited data”
fixed-price contracts for customers demanding high data rate traffic. Sign-
ing up such contracts enables customers to enjoy the unlimited data and
throughput in wireless service with a fixed cost. However, due to the nature
of wireless connections, the quality of services cannot be promised in gen-
eral. Customers’ intention to use the services is then impaired. While SP’s
attempt to prevent losing customers by offering lower prices, their revenues
are decreased.
1.1 Femtocell System
In light of this, overlay macrocell-femtocell system aims to resolve the insta-
bility of wireless services in order to increase the revenue of SPs. The concept
is installing a femtocell base station (BS) with low transmitting power to
overcome macrocell’s severe signal degradations in indoor or countryside en-
vironments. Through lower signal loss rates to mobile stations (MSs) nearby
and frequency reuse, signal qualities are improved and system capacity is
extended [1]. In practical usage, femtocell BSs are usually deployed by user
so they should be designed to be self-contained [2].
The femtocell is an efficient infrastructure to enhance the spectrum uti-
lization by extends the coverage. In addition, since it focuses on the spectrum
reutilization, some operations of the femtocell are closely related to the tech-
nique used in cognitive radio network with primary-secondary user design [3].
Our previous work discussed the radio resource management among base sta-
tions in a shared-spectrum wireless system [4]. We proposed a credit-token
based mechanism to promise the allocation efficiency, Pareto optimality, and
weighted fairness. Femtocell BSs should be aware of the current spectrum us-
age from overlapped macrocell and make necessary adjustments on their pa-
rameters in order to lower interference or ensure compatibility to existing MSs
and macrocell BSs. In the state-of-the-art wireless system standard, over-
lay macrocell-femtocell systems are designed under the assumption of shared
spectrum model. Thus, the interference mitigation [5] and primary/seconday
2
measurement. In their work, the ILCA of the femtocell BS under common
spectrum model is calculated under several scenarios by adjusting the dis-
tance to the macrocell BS, path loss exponents, and transmission power lev-
els. Jin and Li [3] discussed an overlay macrocell-femtocell system from a cog-
nitive radio approach. They formulate the interference mitigation problem
into a dynamic resource allocation problem with location-awareness among
macrocell BS and mobile stations. Their femtocell interference mitigation
mechanism is highly close to cognitive radio techniques, with the assumption
that mobile stations are CR-enabled equipments.
Claussen et al. have shown that the overlay cellular system is more eco-
nomically viable comparing to macrocell system [6]. Their work suggests that
considering the annual overall system cost, there is an optimal coverage ratio
between macrocells and femtocells. Shetty et al. have discussed the effect
of femtocell on the revenue under the fixed-price contract [7]. They study
the optimal fixed pricing scheme in common and split spectrum operating
model. Their results also show that femtocell can increase system operators’
revenue.
In this work, we propose a novel wireless service revenue framework to
investigate SP’s revenue under a variety of contracts and the femtocell sys-
tem’s impact on the revenue. We provide the optimal contracts under both
macrocell-only and overlay system scenarios. A numerical analysis shows
that our optimal contracts extract more revenue than the traditional fixed-
price contracts.
2 Revenue Extraction Framework
We first propose a revenue extraction framework for overlay macrocell-femtocell
system. The framework is based on the Bertrand Competition Model[8] with
enhancements for supporting the characteristics of wireless service systems.
2.1 System Model
We consider a one-dimension space A = [0, L] with one macrocell BS Sm
and one femtocell BS Sf allocated at 0 and L respectively. There are N
MSs distributed in A with a probability distribution function f(l). Both
BSs transmit with fixed powers within same or different resource blocks, and
they have the ability to control the downlink raw data rates ri from BS to a
4
2.2 Contract Design
In design of the wireless service contract between the service provider (SP)
and MSs, we argue that the only factor that can be written (verifiable) in
a contract is the raw data rate transmitted from BS. This is because unlike
the controllable raw data rate, interference-driven bit-error rate and traffic-
jamming-driven blocking probability are relatively hard to verify. So, we can
only offer a contract with a pair of price and promised raw data rate (p, r).
We call this type of contracts as rate-dependent contracts, which is commonly
used in wired internet services. If the SP offers only a single contract (p, s),
we say SP offers a fixed-price contract. On the other hand, if SP offers a
series of contracts {(pi, ri)}, we say SP offers screening contracts.
2.3 Incentive Compatibility
Unlike the case in wired services, however, when SP is negotiating a contract
with a MS, the location of the MS is unknown to SP. That is, the location of
the MS is a private information. So it is not possible to force a MS signing
a service contract based on its location, and an incentive compatibility (IC)
issue arise in this type of service. For example, to attract a person living at
a location with poor signal quality, SP may offer two types of contracts: One
with a lower data rate and a lower price for MSs with poor signal qualities,
and the other for those with good signal qualities. However, the lower-price
contract may also be attractive to those MSs with good signal quality because
they can also enjoy the service with the lower price by the same contract.
To prevent this issue, the offered screening contracts should satisfies the IC
condition.
Assumption 3 (Incentive Compatible Condition)
rlθ(e(l), β))− pl ≥ r
′
lθ(e(l), β))− p
′
l, (1)
rlθ(e(l), β))− pl ≥ U¯l, (2)
∀l ∈ [0, L], ∀(rl, pl), (r
′
l, p
′
l) ∈ C,
where C denotes the set of all offered contracts, (rl, pl) denotes the contract
designed for a person at l, and U¯l denotes the reserved utility if MS choose
not to sign a contract.
We say the contract is implementable if the contract satisfies the IC con-
dition.
6
3.2 First-Best Contract
Then, we introduce the first-best contract (pF (l), rF (l)) to extract all cus-
tomer surplus from all MSs. The price and paired data rate now become
functions of l. If all MSs choose the corresponding contracts, the revenue of
SP becomes
RD = N
∫ L
0
(rF (l)θM(l))− c(rF (l)))f(l)dl.
Applying pointwise optimization, the first-best contract for a MS at l is
rF (l) = c−1(θM(l)) and pF (l) = rF (l)θM(l).
So the revenue under the first-best contract is
RF = N
∫ L
0
c′−1(θM(l))θM (l)− c(c′−1(θM(l)))f(l)dl.
The revenue under the first-best contracts is larger than fixed-price contract
since all customer surplus has been extracted. However, first-best contracts
are not incentive compatible because for any MS at l < L:
rF (L)θM(l)− pF (L) = rF (L)θM(l)− rF (L)θM (L)
= rF (L)(·)(θM(l)− θM(L)) > 0 = rF (l)θM(l)− pF (l).
In words, a MS located closer to the BS experiences a smaller bit-error rate.
Thus, it gets a positive utility when choosing the contract designed to extract
all the revenue from a MS located further from the BS. So, all MSs choose
the contract (rF (L), pF (L)) = (rD, pD) under the first-best contracts, and
the revenue is the same as the the fixed-price contract. We conclude that the
first-best contract is not implementable.
3.3 Second-Best Contract
Now we derive the optimal contract under incentive compatible condition.
We denote U(l) = r(l)θ(e(l), βM)− p(l) and give out the following lemma to
describe the necessary and sufficient condition to satisfy the IC condition in
continuous preference set [0, L]:
8
4 Revenue Extraction in Macrocell-Femtocell
System under Shared Spectrum Model
Then, we discuss the case that two BSs Sm and Sf are located at 0 and
L. Now MSs have two kinds of BS from which they can choose to connect
with. Each BS can offer its contract (ri(l), pi(l))|i=m,f . In this work, we
investigate the case that both BS are owned by the same SP. Thus, two BSs
offer the contracts to maximize the summation of their revenues. In addition,
we assume that both BSs share the same resources blocks. The interference
to MSs served by Sm is heavier than the case that Sf is absent. Thus, the
bit-error rate em(l) ≥ e(l) ∀l ∈ [0, L].
Given two BSs Sf and Sm, a MS will choose to connect to the one giving
him a higher utility. Generally, a BS offering a lower bit-error rate and
blocking probability can offer a more competitive contract to the MS than
the other one. Thus, there exists a boundary point l¯ that for a MS located
at l < l¯, he will choose (rm(l), pm(l)), and vice versa.
Note that the blocking probability β(B,Nm) and β(B,Nf) change with
the number of MSs served by each BS, and so are the utilities of MSs
rθ(e(l), β(B,N)). We denote θm(l, l¯) = θ(em(l), β(B,NF (l¯)) and θf (l, l¯) =
θ(ef(L− l), β(B,N(1− F (l¯))) in the following discussion.
4.1 Fixed-Price Contract
Under fixed-price contracts (rDi , p
D
i ), the revenue maximization problem the
SP facing is
maxNF (l¯)(pDm − c(r
D
m))) +N(1− F (l¯))(p
D
f − c(r
D
f ))
under the constraints:
pDm ≤ r
D
mθm(l¯, l¯) and p
D
f ≤ r
D
f θf (l¯, l¯),
(rDmθm(l, l¯)− (p
D
m − r
D
f θf (l, l¯)− p
D
f ))(l¯ − l) ≥ 0.
Due to the continuity of θm(l, l¯) and θm(l, l¯) in [0, L], r
D
mθm(l, l¯) − (p
D
m −
rDf θf (l, l¯) − p
D
f must be equal to zero. The optimal boundary point should
be the one that gives the same marginal revenue to both BSs. We describe
the optimal fixed-price contract in the following proposition.
10
Proposition 4 The optimal contract (rS(l), pS(l)) to maximize SP’s revenue
under incentive compatible condition is:
rSi (l) = c
′−1(θi(l, l¯) +
F (l)
f(l)
∂θi(l, l¯)
∂l
), (11)
pSi (l) = r
S
i (l)θi(l, l¯) +
∫ l¯
l
, rSi (l)
∂θi(l, l¯)
∂l
dl, (12)
(
∫ l¯
0
rSm(l)
f(l)
f(l¯)
dl)
∂θm(l, l¯)
∂l
|l=l¯ − c(r
S
m(l¯) +
F (l¯)
f(l¯)
∂θm(l, l¯)
∂l
|l=l¯)
+rSm(l¯)θm(l¯, l¯) = (
∫ L
l¯
rSf (l)
f(l)
f(l¯)
dl)
∂θm(l, l¯)
∂l
|l=l¯
−c(rSf (l¯) +
1− F (l¯)
f(l¯)
∂θf (l, l¯)
∂l
|l=l¯) + r
S
f (l¯)θf (l¯, l¯). (13)
The intuition behind Eq. (13) is that the marginal revenue of Sf from the
MSs at l¯ should be equal to the marginal revenue of Sm at l¯. If it is not
equal at the boundary point, moving the boundary point toward the one
with higher marginal revenue can always increase the overall revenue of SP.
5 Numerical Results
We evaluate the revenue extraction under different contracts through a nu-
merical analysis. We setup a space [0, 10] with 160 uniformly distributed
MSs. Sm and Sf are located at 0 and L, transmit with power Pm and Pf .
Both BSs use 40 resource blocks, operate with BPSK modulation, and have
the same cost function c(r) = c
2
2
. The utility of a MS at l is given by
ui(l) = r(1− e(l))(1− β), which roughly represents its data throughput. We
analyze two scenarios: Macrocell Only and Overlay Network. In Macrocell
Only scenario, Pm = 100 and Pf = 0. In Overlay Network, Pm = 100 and
Pf = 10. The numerical results of the revenue per MS of SP under different
contracts are shown in Figure 2 and 3.
We observe from Figure 2 that in Macrocell-Only scenario, the first-best
contract extracts the most revenue from MSs if a MS at l indeed signs the
contract (rF (l), pF (l)). But it has been discussed that this is not true when
l is private information, and the revenue of SP under the first-best contract
12
will be same as the one under the fixed-price contract. Comparing fixed-
price and second-best contracts we observe that the second-best contract
extracts more revenue when l is small and vice versa. The loss of revenue is
a tradeoff to preserve the implementability of the second-best contract. A
similar observation can be found in Overlay Network scenario from Figure 3.
Second-best contract can extract more revenue when MSs are closer to Sf or
Sm, but has a revenue loss when MSs are at the boundary point.
The total expected revenue under a contract in Figure 2 and 3 is the inte-
grated area under each contract’s line. In our analysis, the Overlay Network
scenario extracts more revenue than Macrocell-Only scenario. In addition,
second-best contract extracts more revenue than fixed-price contract in both
scenarios.
6 Conclusions
In this work, we propose a novel revenue extraction framework for various
wireless system. In the macrocell-only system, we provide the sufficient con-
dition to promise the optimality of revenue extraction under the second-best
contract. In the overlay macrocell-femtocell system, we derive the optimal
fixed-price contract and the second-best contract. We showed that under
the shared spectrum model, when the interference from the femtocell is low,
adding a femtocell can enhance the spectrum utilization and increases the
revenue of the service provider.
References
[1] V. Chandrasekhar, J. Andrews, and A. Gatherer. Femtocell networks: a
survey. IEEE Communications Magazine, 46(9):59–67, September 2008.
[2] Holger Claussen, Lester T. W. Ho, and Louis G. Samuel. An overview of
the femtocell concept. Bell Labs Technical Journal, 13(1):221–245, 2008.
[3] J. Jin and B. Li. Cooperative Resource Management in Cognitive
WiMAX with Femto Cells. In IEEE INFOCOM ’10. The 28th IEEE
Conference on Computer Communications, Mar. 2010.
14
 國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99 年 1月 7日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
The Sixth International Conference on Heterogeneous Networking for Quality, Reliability, Security and 
Robustness (QShine 2009) was a three-day conference, from November 23 to 25, 2009. During the 
conference time, I participated in all the sessions, including multimedia, resource management in wireless 
networks, performance issues in network architectures, and so on. I presented our work in session 12 – 
performance analysis and device heterogeneity in wireless networks – on November 25. 
 
二、與會心得 
The Sixth International Conference on Heterogeneous Networking for Quality, Reliability, Security and 
Robustness (QShine 2009) focused on the research challenges associated to the design and 
implementation of large-scale wired and wireless networks and distributed systems. Following the 
tradition of the previous QShine meetings, QShine 2009 featured prominent invited speakers as well as 
papers by top researchers in the field. 
In this conference, I gave a talk about the paper “Credit-Token Based Inter-Cell Radio Resource 
Management: A Game Theoretic Approach”. This paper was popular with the audience, including 
professors and students from more than 20 countries. 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Proceedings of QShine 2009 (One CD) 
計畫編號 NSC 97－ 2219－ E－ 002－ 020 
計畫名稱 
第四代無線通訊之合作暨認知網路技術 - 子計畫四:感知與合作式第
四代無線網路之賽局理論架構研究 
出國人員
姓名 
柯君翰 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學電資學院電信中心 
會議時間 
98年 11月 23日至 
98年 11月 25日 
會議地點 Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain 
會議名稱 
The Sixth International Conference on Heterogeneous Networking for 
Quality, Reliability, Security and Robustness (QShine 2009) 
發表論文
題目 
Credit-Token Based Inter-Cell Radio Resource Management: A Game 
Theoretic Approach 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：魏宏宇 計畫編號：98-2219-E-002-019- 
計畫名稱：第四代無線通訊之合作暨認知網路技術--子計畫四：感知與合作式第四代無線網路之賽局
理論架構研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
