solute segregation phenomenon. Capper [13] added ACRT to the vertical Bridgman growth process 
using CdHgTe, to minimize the hollowness of the melt/crystal interface, thereby improving the 
radial segregation of the wafer. In order to speed up the crystallization process, Ostrogorsky [14-16] 
added a disc shaped heater to the cylindrical Bridgman furnace to change the heat flux of the flow. 
In this manner, the melt/crystal interface of the semiconductor germanium (Ge) was changed to 
convex. Bykova et al. [17] inserted a cylindrical heater, to improve the sunken facet problem caused 
by the supercooling phenomenon during the crystallization process of Bi4Ge3O12. 
    This paper simulated the YAG growth conditions in the vertical Bridgman process with and 
without a submerged heater (SH), to verify whether there were any impact on the degree of 
deflection at the melt/crystal interface, and analyze the size of velocity field. The results helped 
researchers to understand the parameters for controlling the SH during the crystallizing process. 
 
2. Mathematical Model 
The physical geometric configuration of the vertical Bridgman process is shown in Figure 1. 
The structure of the furnace is cylindrical which has a height-to-diameter ratio of 15.5. The 
temperature at the top and bottom surfaces remains constant. But the temperature of the sidewall is 
at three levels: the bottom section maintains a constant low temperature (lower than the melting 
point, the upper section maintains a constant high temperature (higher than the melting point), and 
the middle section has a linear temperature distribution, the overall temperature declines at a slow 
constant rate. In order to control the distance between the SH and the melt/crystal interface, the SH 
is required to rise as soon as the melt/crystal interface rises. 
The material of the semiconductor used in the furnace is YAG. At the beginning of the 
crystallizing process, the initial temperature is distributed within the furnace, and it is necessary to 
ensure the system reaches a steady state. At that point, the temperature on the wall of the 
crystallization furnace is gradually decreased at a constant rate Ua. This paper discusses how the 
addition of a SH can have a dramatic impact on this. The quasi-steady-state hypothesis was adopted. 
in which the pull rate of the Ampoule was assumed to be the speed of crystallization. 
The flow, temperature and dopant fields, as well as the melt/crystal interface, are also 
represented in the Cartesian coordinate(x,y,z). The dimensionless variables are defined by scaling 
length with the distance from SH bottom to melt/crystal interface, velocity with Hm /α , pressure 
with 22 / Hmmαρ , where  
GTTH ms /)( −=                 (1) 
sT is the temperature in the SH, mT  is melting temperature for YAG, G is the temperature Gradient 
in the middle zone for the ampoule,
mmmm Cpk ρα /=  is thermal diffusion coefficient for melt, mρ  is 
density for melt. Dimensionless temperature fields are defined as )/()),,(( CHC TTTzyxT −− , where HT  
and CT are the values of the hot and cold isothermal zones in the Bridgman furnace. In order to 
evaluate the effect of applying the submerged heater on the natural convection of the melt, the 
governing equations are obtained using the following assumptions: 1. viscous dissipation is 
negligible. 2. The melt is incompressible and Newtonian. 3. The Boussinesq approximation holds.  
Continuity equation 
 
    
0=⋅∇ v
                        (2) 
 
Momentum equation 
 
   )1(2 −−∇+−∇=∇⋅ TRPvPPvv aTrr      (3) 
variables, therefore numerical instability can be avoided during calculation. It is then necessary to 
bring the solved flow field into the energy equation to distribute the energy. While utilizing the 
discretization of limited differencing, we adopted the central-differencing method for the 
calculations of temperature and flow field, while upwind-differencing was adopted for convection 
terms. ADI method was adopted for the energy equation, while SOR method was used for the 
momentum equation. It was necessary to establish a convergence condition because iterative method 
was adopted for this study. The convergence standard is as follows: 
 
5
1
1
10−
+
+
≤
−
n
nn
Maxφ
φφ
                        (9) 
Where φ  represents v, T and other properties. 
 
 
4. Results and Discussion 
This study installed YAG crystal into the vertical Bridgman furnace, and the materials used are 
shown in Table 1. We adopted the Stockbarger technique for the temperature distribution of the 
external furnace. The setting for the melting point of YAG’s was in the center of temperature the 
gradient, and the bottom section of SH showed the maximum temperature gradient. The size of the 
SH radii used are 1/8, 1/4, 1/2, 3/4, and 7/8 times that of the radius of the crystals. In this manner, 
we were able to evaluate the changes in temperature and speed, the deflection of the shapes of 
melt/crystal interface, and the difference made after installing the SH. 
 Figure 2 is a cross-sectional diagrams for streams and temperature distribution. The surface 
temperature, TH was uniform, so there was little impact on the temperature distribution surrounding 
the melt/crystal interface, whether the SH were installed or not. However, the natural convection 
zones created by the temperature gradient appear to have been restricted as the radius of the SH 
gradually increases. Under the same temperature gradient, a larger SH radius allowed a narrower 
natural convection, which led to a more concentrated linear function. 
Figure 3 is a vector diagram of the speed of the melt in the vicinity of the melt/crystal 
interface, whether the SH were installed or not when G = 80 k/cm、H=1.0 cm. The diagram on the 
left shows the condition without a SH installed, where Vmax=2.6885e-4 m/s. The diagram on the 
right shows the difference on the speed Vmax=1.4912e-4 m/s after installing the heater. The 
maximum difference in speed reached 1.8 times. The degree of heat convection in the melt was 
determined by dimensionless Rayleigh number, while the physical connotation refers to the ratio 
between buoyancy (drives the natural convection flow) and viscous force (restrain the flow of 
liquid). 
 
33 2000)( HHTTgforcesviscous
forcesbuoyancy
R
mm
mHT
aT ≈





−
==
να
β
  (10) 
 
The means by which buoyancy can be decreased needs to be considered to decrease the convection 
of the melt. Buoyancy can be controlled by adjusting any of these parameters, g, H, 
mH TT − .The H 
is approximately 6cm before using the SH. After the SH was installed, the H value declined by 
approximately 5 times. Compared to the H3 in Rayleigh number, this represents a decrease of 
approximately 100 times. Nevertheless, the variation in radial temperature gradient was smaller 
than the variation of axial temperature gradient. Therefore, the SH was able to decrease the ratio 
between buoyancy and viscous force by approximately 100 times. If acceleration of gravity, g were 
used to build up the same effect, then it would be required to decrease the acceleration to 10-2g.  
Figure 4 shows a comparison of the maximum variations in flow rate under different 
temperature gradients, G, when H = 1.0cm. As the temperature gradient increased, the maximum 
9. C.W. Lan and C.Y. Tu, “Three-dimensional simulation of facet formation and the coupled heat 
flow and segregation in Bridgman growth of oxide crystals,” Journal of Crystal Growth, 
Vol.233, pp.523-536, 2001. 
10. C.W. Lan, C.Y. Tu and Y.F. Lee, “Effect of internal radition on heat flow and facet formation in 
Bridgman growth of YAG crystals,” Internal Journal of Heat and Mass Transfer, Vol.46, 
pp.1629-1640, 2003.  
11. M.F. Lu, S.H. Chuang and H.J. Lee, “Simulation og gravity effects on bulk crystal growth with 
effect on undercooling,” Advanced Materials Research, Vol.154-155, pp.1538-1543, 2010.  
12. D.H. Kim and R.A. Brown, “Models for convection and segregation in the growth of HgCdTe 
by the vertical Bridgman method,” Journal of Crystal Growth, Vol.96, pp.609-621, 1989. 
13. P. Capper, J.E. Harries, E.O. Keefe, C.L. Jones, C.K. Ard, P. Mackett and D. Dutton, “Bridgman 
growth and assessment of CdTe and CdZnTe using the accelerated crucible rotation technique,” 
Materials Science and Engineering B. Vol.16, pp.29-36, 1993. 
14. A.G. Ostrogorsky, “Convection and segregation during growth of Ge and InSb crystals by the 
submerged heater method,” Journal of Crystal Growth, Vol.128, pp.201-206, 1993. 
15. A.G. Ostrogorsky and Z. Dragojlovic, “Heat and mass transfer in solidification by the 
submerged heater method,” ASME, Heat Transfer Division, Vol.284, pp.255-263 1994. 
16. S. Meyer and A.G. Ostrogorsky, “Interface shape in the vertical Bridgman configuration with 
and without the submerged heater,” Journal of Crystal Growth, Vol.166, pp.700-707, 1996. 
17. S.V. Bykova, V.D. Golyshev, M.A. Gonik, V.B. Tsvetovsky, V.I. Deshko, A.G. Ostrogorsky and 
Z. Dragojlovic, “Heat and mass transfer in solidification by the submerged heater method,” 
ASME, Heat Transfer Division, Vol.284, pp.255-263, 1994. 
18. S.V. Patanker, Numerical Heat Transfer and Fluid Flow, McGraw-Hill, New York, 1980. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Physical diagram of the vertical Bridgman furnace 
 
    
Figure 5. Variations in deflection of melt/crystal interface under different temperature gradients 
(H=1.0 cm) 
 
   
Figure 6. Variations in maximum flow rate for the heater installed at various distances (G = 80 
k/cm ) 
 
  
 
Figure 7. Variations in the deflection of the melt/crystal interface for the heater installed at various 
distances (G = 80 k/cm ) 
 
 
 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
