 1 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會雙邊國際合作研究計畫期中精簡報告 
液-氣界面上之非均質高分子/界劑混合吸附奈米膜之動態特性研究 (2/3) 
Dynamic properties of nano-heterogeneous polymer and  
polymer/surfactant adsorption films at the liquid-gas interface 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2218-E-011-013 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林析右    國立台灣科技大學化學工程學系 
 
1. 中文摘要 
 
本計劃探討液-氣界面上之非均質高分子與
界面活性劑混合吸附奈米膜之動態暨結構性
質。第二年藉由對液膜之鬆弛光譜性質之量
測，進一步探討不同聚電解質/界面活性劑混合
物之表面膜的性質。PVPCl/SDS 混合物表面膜
之表面黏彈性質與強聚電解質無異。在小濃度
範圍內表面黏彈性質之急劇變化，極可能是一
奈米或微米級粒子生成於表面膜上。本研究亦
借肋電子顯微鏡來觀察 PDMDAAC/SDS 表面
膜上奈米粒子之生成。本計劃之部份成果已發
表於 Langmuir、和 J. Colloid Interface Sci. 和
Colloid-J (Russian)期刊 [14-16]。 
關鍵詞：高分子表面膜、高分子/界面活性劑
混合物、奈米粒子、微凝膠、表面擴張黏彈、
高分子溶液、動態表面張力、聚電解質溶液 
Abstract 
For the second year of the project the dynamic 
and structural properties of complex polymer and 
polymer/surfactant adsorption films at the 
liquid-gas interface was mainly devoted to 
further examination of previously obtained 
conclusions and to elucidation of the peculiarities 
of various polyelectrolyte and 
polyelectrolyte/surfactant surface films. Special 
attention was paid to the adsorption and spread 
films of polyvinylpyridinium chloride, β-casein, 
polyvinyl-pyridinium chloride/sodium alkyl- 
sulfates (PVPCl/SAS) by the methods of surface 
dilational rheology. The dynamic surface 
elasticity of PVPCl/SDS solutions strongly 
depended on pH and did not differ from the 
behavior of strong polyelectolytes in the acidic 
range. A strong changes of the surface visco- 
elasticity in a narrow concentration range can be 
interpreted by the formation of nano- and 
microparticles in the surface layer. The formation 
of nanoparticles in the PDMDAAC/ SDS spread 
and adsorbed films was studied by the electron 
microscopy. Parts of our results had been 
published in Langmuir, J. Colloid Interface Sci., 
and Colloid-J (Russian) [14-16] 
Keywords: polymer surface films, polymer/ 
surfactant complexes, nanoparticles, microgels, 
dilational surface viscoelasticity, dynamic 
surface tension, polyelectrolyte solutions 
2. Introduction 
Preface. The unique surface properties of 
various polymeric systems play an important role 
in nature and technical processes. At the same 
time any information on the dynamics of macro- 
molecules at the liquid surface and the structure 
of polymeric surface films is scarce. This 
conclusion is also valid for adsorption and spread 
films of polyelectrolyte/surfactant complexes. It 
is only recently that the formation of micro- and 
nanoparticles has been discovered in surface 
films containing polyelectrolytes [1,2]. The main 
aim of the project consisted in a systematic 
investigation of the heterogeneous polymer and 
polymer/surfactant films at the liquid-gas 
interface using the methods of mechanical 
relaxation spectrometry and optical methods.  
The surface dilational viscoelasticity of a 
number of adsorbed and spread films of non- 
ionic block copolymers, adsorbed polyelectrolyte 
films and mixed polyelectrolyte/surfactant films 
have been studied as a function of the concen- 
tration and surface age by a few methods of the 
mechanical relaxation spectrometry of the liquid 
surface layer during the first year of the project. 
Special attention was paid to the ranges of 
parameters where the surface films become 
heterogeneous. The results indicated that the 
formation of micro- and nanoparticles is inherent 
in different mixed polyelectrolyte/surfactant 
adsorption films.  
The surface viscoelasticity of other polyelec- 
trolyte/surfactant adsorption films was studied 
during the second year of the project with the 
 3
concentrations. For these purposes the axisym- 
metric bubble shape analysis, the Wilhelmy plate 
and ring methods were applied. In the first case a 
pendant bubble was formed in polymer or 
surfactant solutions and monitored since the 
bubble was formed. Bubble profiles, which 
change with time due to the adsorption, were 
then utilized for an accurate tension measure- 
ment. The results of the dynamic surface 
measurements were compared with the data on 
the kinetic dependencies of dynamic surface 
elasticity and used for the determination of the 
adsorption mechanism and discovering and 
conformation transitions. The surface pressure of 
spread films was measured by the Wilhelmy 
plate method in a PTFE Langmuir trough.   
The complex dynamic surface elasticity was 
mainly measured by the oscillating barrier [2,3, 
5,6,14-16], the oscillating bubble and drop 
methods [2,16]. The surface area of a meniscus 
or a liquid in the Langmuir trough was subjected 
to small harmonic oscillations. The software 
ensured the on-line control of the oscillation 
parameters and calculation of the surface area 
variation δS and the surface tension variation δγ 
as a function of surface age. The elasticity 
modulus was determined from the amplitude 
ratio of the oscillations of surface tension and 
surface area, while the phase shift between the 
oscillations of the two parameters (surface 
tension and surface area) determined the phase 
angle of the dynamic surface elasticity [2,3,5,6, 
14-16]. Amplitudes ±10 % ensured that the data 
were precise enough and at the same time the 
influence of non-linear effects was negligible. 
A conventional PCSA (Polarizer-Compen- 
sator-Sample-Analyzer) null-ellipsometer set-up 
was used for the measurement of the ellipso- 
metric angles as a function of the surface age 
[17]. The light beam from a laser passed through 
a first quarter-wave plate to produce a circularly 
polarized light. Then the light was linearly 
polarized by a polarizer and went through a 
second quarter-wave plate and the analyzer. As a 
detector, a photodiode was used. Both incidence 
and reflection arms were motorised and compu- 
ter-controlled. Highly precise motors of the 
polarizer and the analyzer, also controlled by the 
computer, allowed the exact determination of the 
null-positions (positions at which the minimal 
intensity of the transmitted light is registered) of 
the both optical elements. From the nulls of 
analyzer and polarizer two ellipsometric angles 
could be easily obtained. These angles charac- 
terize the polarization state of the reflected light, 
which depends on the properties of the reflecting 
surface. For a thin non-absorbing, plane-parallel, 
homogeneous and isotropic layer with the thick- 
ness less than the wavelength at the interface 
between two phases one can derive an algebraic 
complex relation between the ellipsometric 
angles, the refractive index of the film and the 
film thickness. Using the same assume- ption of 
a homogeneous and relatively thick (almost 
autonomous with respect to the coexisting phases) 
adsorption layer, one can calculate the adsorbed 
amount from the refractive index and the 
thickness of the layer. If the film is hetero- 
geneous, these calculations give only average 
values. 
The adsorption and spread surface films were 
also transferred on a cellulose solid membrane by 
the Langmuir-Schaefer (LS) technique in order 
to analyze their structure. After the desired aging 
time in the Langmuir trough, the film was 
transferred to a solid support simply by touching 
the substrate to the water surface. In all of the 
cases the substrate was held parallel to the 
interface. A well-executed LS transfer can result 
in a deposition without deformation of the layer. 
Following film transfer, the substrate after was 
held in a vertical position, and excess solution 
was removed by bringing the edge into contact 
with a filter paper. After drying the sample was 
analyzed by the transmission electron micro- 
scopy (TEM).   
Polyvinylpyridin (PVP, Polysciences) with 
molecular weight 50000 and PDMDAAC 
(Sigma-Aldrich) with molecular weight 400000 
were used as received. Sodium alkylsulphates 
(SAS, Sigma-Aldrich) were purified by double 
recrystallization from ethanol. Sodium chloride 
from Merck was purified by heating in an oven 
up to 8000 C. All the solutions were prepared in 
triple-distilled water. Dry polyvinylpyridin was 
dissolved in dilute hydrochloric acid. All the 
PVPCl/SAS solutions were freshly prepared by 
mixing the solutions of individual components. 
pH of the solutions was reduced to the required 
value by the addition of hydrochloric acid. 
4. Results and Discussion 
The surface tension of PVPCl solutions has 
been measured as a function of surface age, 
concentration and pH. The surface tension 
kinetic dependencies of PVPCl solutions have 
some peculiarities. Unlike the corresponding 
results for other polyelectrolyte solutions, the 
adsorption process of PVPCl consists of two 
steps. The surface tension drops abruptly in less 
than a minute after the new surface creation and 
changes only a little after that. The dynamic 
surface elasticity also changes rapidly during the 
first few minutes and is almost constant after that 
at the concentrations less than 0.01 wt %. At 
higher concentrations one can observe slow 
increase of the surface elasticity after the initial 
 5
adsorption layer at low concentrations to a looser 
surface film structure. In the latter case the 
adsorption layer contains three-dimensional 
microparticles. An indirect proof of this 
phenomena is the appearance of higher 
harmonics of the surface tension oscillations, 
which are not pure sinusoidal in the range of 0.02 
mM < c < 1 mM. The polyelectrolyte chains are 
not stretched between the microparticles and 
contain fewer ionized groups. The corresponding 
structure cannot be described as a two- 
dimensional monolayer unlike the adsorption 
layer at lower concentrations. However, even in 
the latter case the classic model of Goddard, 
which assumes ion pair formation between the 
surfactant molecules and charged polymer 
segments at the interface, is not sufficient to 
explain the surface properties of the investigated 
system, in particular, the very slow adsorption 
layer formation and the high surface elasticity at 
extremely dilute solutions. A modification of the 
classic model was proposed, which took into 
account hydrophobic interactions in the 
adsorption layer leading to the formation of 
almost two-dimensional nano- or micro- 
aggregates [2].  
The addition of 0.1 M NaCl to PVPCl/SDS 
solutions led to almost two times decrease of the 
surface elasticity at low concentrations and to the 
acceleration of the surface elasticity kinetic 
dependencies. It is hardly possible to explain this 
effect only by the additional shielding of 
electrostatic interactions in the adsorption film 
and one has to take into account the two- 
dimensional heterogeneity of the film. 
The distinctive feature of PVPCl/SDS 
solutions as compared with other studied 
polyelectrolyte/surfactant solutions consists in 
the high imaginary part of the surface elasticity. 
The PVPCl/SDS adsorption films turn out to be 
viscoelastic. The calculation of the main 
relaxation time using the Maxwell rheological 
model shows that the relaxation process can be 
described as surfactant exchange between the 
surface layer and the bulk phase or between the 
aggregates in the surface layer and the 
surrounding surface films. One can assume that 
only a part of SDS molecules are bound tightly 
by the polyelectrolyte in the surface layer. The 
number of relatively “free” surfactant molecules 
increases with the increase of the brutto- 
concentration and can take part in the surfactant 
exchange. The strong decrease of the polyelec- 
trolyte/surfactant complex stability in a narrow 
concentration range can be explained by a 
sudden formation of micro- and nanoparticles in 
the surface layer. The obtained results do not 
give a possibility to distinguish between the two 
proposed relaxation mechanisms. In any case 
PVPCl/SDS complexes in the surface layer lose 
their stability to a great extent in a narrow 
concentration range and the adsorption layer 
becomes viscoelastic. Therefore the PVPCl/SDS 
complexes in the surface layer are less stable as 
compared with the PDMDAAC/SDS and PSS/ 
DTAB systems, which were studied earlier. The 
decrease of the oscillation frequency in the case 
of PVPCl/SDS solutions changes strongly the 
concentration dependency of the dynamic 
surface elasticity. 
The obtained results show that the main 
distinctions between different polyelectrolyte/ 
surfactant adsorption layers probably consist in 
the stability of the complexes and, consequently, 
in the rate of relaxation processes. The relaxation 
processes in the surface layer of the PVPCl/ SDS 
solutions both with and without NaCl are much 
faster than in the case of PDMD AAC/SDS and 
PSS/DTAB solutions. In the latter case the 
relaxation time exceeds 100 s in almost the 
whole concentration range and the adsorption 
layer is pure elastic at the frequency 0.14 Hz. In 
order to examine the distinctions in the 
relaxation processes and the rate of micro- 
particle formation an ellipsometric study of 
polyelectrolyte/surfactant solutions has been 
started. The first results for PDMDAAC/SDS 
solutions show that the ellipsometric signal 
increases strongly at the concentrations just 
beyond the range of the surface elasticity drop. 
However, unlike the case of PSS/DTAB 
solutions [1], the ellipsometric angles begin to 
increase only after a few hours the surface 
formation. This data indicate a long nucleation 
period in this case and confirm the conclusions 
of the surface rheological study. On the other 
hand, the ellipsometric results give direct 
evidence of the nano- and microparticle 
formation in the surface layer.  
The oscillating barrier method was also 
applied to spread films of PVPCl/SDS and 
PDMDAAC/SDS on an aqueous subphase. The 
surface properties of these films remain almost 
unchanged within a few hours after their 
formation. The dynamic surface elasticity of the 
spread films decreased at the compression but 
the corresponding changes were not as abrupt as 
in the case of adsorption films. This was 
explained by more gradual formation of the 
microparticles at the increase of surface density. 
The transferring of the films to a solid support 
and their subsequent examination by TEM 
confirmed this conclusion. At the same time the 
particles distribution in the spread films was 
usually more homogeneous and their size 
changed in more narrow limits than for adsorbed 
