一、摘要
本研究以水熱法，在表面覆蓋一層氧化鋅晶種層的玻璃與矽基板上，成長氧化鋅奈米
線。實驗結果顯示，氧化鋅奈米線的成長與晶種層的結晶特性、水熱法的水溶液濃度、以
及後續的熱處理有密切的關係。經由研究分析，發現水熱法在不同基板成長出的垂直排列
奈米線，會順著氧化鋅晶種層薄膜結晶的方向磊晶成長。掃瞄式電子顯微鏡顯示奈米線的
長度、直徑、與密度具有均勻的分佈。X 光繞射圖案，清楚得顯示氧化鋅奈米線，主要沿
著 C 軸的方向成長。穿透式電子顯微鏡和選區電子繞射量測結果，顯示奈米線為單晶結構。
此外陰極激發光光譜在可見光區域，顯示兩個微弱的深發射能帶，此能帶可能源自本質或
外質的缺陷。經由有系統的研究與分析，此排列特性良好且具有高表面積的氧化鋅奈米線，
將有很大的潛力應用於場發射、太陽能電池、及高感度氣體偵測器等領域。
關鍵詞：氧化鋅奈米線；合成；晶種層薄膜；水熱法；溶膠-凝膠法
Abstract
ZnO nanowires with various morphologies are synthesized on silicon/glass substrates coated
with ZnO thin films, which are used as the seed layer, by hydrothermal method. Experimental
results demonstrate that the synthesis of ZnO nanowires is obviously dependent on the crystalline
properties of the seed-layer films, the concentration of aqueous solution, and the post annealing
treatments. The vertical-aligned ZnO nanowire arrays on the substrates are believed resulted from
the epitaxial growth from the ZnO seed layer. Scanning electron microscopy shows that the
nanowires with uniform distribution in their length, diameter, and density are obtained. X-ray
diffraction patterns clearly reveal that ZnO nanowires are primary grown along the c-axis
direction. The transmittance electron microscopy and selected-area electron diffraction
measurements show that the nanowires are single crystals. Moreover, the CL spectra in the visible
spectrum exhibit two weak deep-level emission bands that may be attributed to the intrinsic or
extrinsic defects. The well-aligned and high surface areas of ZnO nanowires make them a notable
potential candidate in the areas of field emission, solar cells, and ultra-sensitive gas sensor.
Keywords: ZnO Nanowires; Synthesis; Seed-Layer Film; Hydrothermal Method; Sol-Gel
Reaction
二、前言
Zinc oxide (ZnO) recently has been used in different applications such as microelectronics,
optoelectronics, and sensors [1-3]. ZnO-based materials can be applied at different utilizations
due to their unique properties of abundant, nontoxic, excellent electrical conductivity, highly
optical transparency in the visible wavelength region, and good chemical stability in the reduction
environment. ZnO is a wide bandgap (3.37 eV) functional oxide semiconductor with the wurtzite
structure. It can absorb UV light because that the valence-band to conduction-band transition and
can be fabricated with various shapes, including thin films, nanostructures etc [4-8].
potential applications in devices and sensors [23]. The metal oxide ZnO is a wide band-gap
compound semiconductor that is suitable for blue optoelectronic applications, with ultraviolet
lasing action being reported [24]. Among various techniques for the growth of 1D ZnO
nanostructures, including chemical vapor deposition, metal organic chemical vapor deposition,
sol–gel process and so on. Hydrothermal method [16, 17, 25] has been recently reported as a
simple way to grow 1D ZnO nanostructures owing to its easy and low-cost procedure, greater
control over experimental parameters and convenience for synthesis in high quality.
五、研究方法
The ZnO nanowires were grown from solution of zinc nitrate hexahydrate (99.9% purity)
and hexamethylenetetramine (99.9% purity) on Si and glass substrates coated with a ZnO
seed-layer film. Prior to the growth of ZnO nanowires, the substrates were cleaned by the
standard Radio Corporation of America (RCA) cleaning method and rinsed in acetone for 30 min
to remove pollutants. After that, the textured ZnO seed-layer films were produced on Si and glass
substrates using sol-gel method and subsequently annealing treatments. Then, the substrates with
ZnO seed-layer films were placed in the aqueous solution and maintained at 95C with stable
stirring in thermostatically controlled bath. The as-grown ZnO nanowires were rinsed in
deionized water and dried in air for further studies.
The surface roughness of the ZnO seed-layer film was observed by the atomic force
microscopy (AFM) using the silicon-nitride tips in contact mode. The morphology and
microstructure of synthesized ZnO nanowires were characterized by using field-emission
scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM). The crystalline structure of nanowires was analyzed by
X-ray diffraction patterns (XRD) using Cu Kαradiation of 1.5418Å. The transmission electron
microscopy (TEM) was used to obtain the high-resolution images. The optical properties were
analyzed using the cathodoluminescence (CL) with an electron beam as an excitation source (15
kV). All of the measurements were performed at room temperature.
六、結果與討論
Fig. 1 shows the 3D AFM images taken to measure the surface roughness of the bare
substrates and the ZnO thin films. The AFM measurements demonstrate that the surface
roughness of the substrates was determined by root mean square (rms) [26]. As shown in Fig. 1 (a)
and (c), the bare Si and glass substrates reveal a quite smooth surface with the rms roughness of
0.11 and 0.15 nm, respectively. It is well known the smooth surface of dielectric films causes the
reduction in leakage current [27]. Accordingly, the smaller roughness of ZnO thin films grown on
Si substrate is expected to decrease the leakage current.
Fig. 4(a) shows the TEM image of a well-developed ZnO nanowire with diameter
approximately 65nm in accordance with the SEM measurement. It displays that the synthesized
nanowire is really straight and has a smooth surface. The diameters of the nanowires are found to
slightly decrease from the root to the tip along their lengths. The lattice-resolved HRTEM image
pattern measured from one individual nanowire is shown in Fig. 4(b). The crystal lattice fringes
are clearly observed without any defects produced during the growth processes and average
distance between the adjacent lattice planes is 0.52 nm. This measured plane spacing is
characteristic of the (002) planes, showing the ZnO nanowire with perfect lattice structure and is
verified again that the nanowires grown along the c-axis direction.
Fig. 5 (a)-(b) demonstrates the room temperature CL spectra of ZnO nanowires thermally
annealed at oxygen and nitrogen atmospheres with different reaction times. It is found that the
annealing atmosphere and reaction time have remarkable effects on the optical properties of ZnO
nanowires. The as-grown ZnO nanowires show a broad green-yellow emission band with an
emission peak approximately 575 nm and a much narrow orange-red emission peak around 625
nm. The visible emission peaks (575 nm and 625 nm) in this study are reasonably assumed
resulted from some deep-level defects. The CL spectrum of ZnO can be generally separated into
two emission regions. One is located in the UV region corresponding to the near band-edge
emissions attributed to the electron-hole pair recombination. The other is located in the visible
region coming from some intrinsic or extrinsic defects. Based on many investigations [28-31], the
origin of the green-yellow emission around 575 nm is believed due to the absorbed water or
surface hydroxyl (OH) groups while the orange-red emission at around 625 nm is resulted from
the oxygen interstitials.
In addition, no matter the ZnO nanowires annealed in oxygen or nitrogen atmosphere, the
green-yellow emission centering at around 575 nm disappears and the orange-red emission at
about 625 nm is decreased as the annealing time increased; the decrease of peak intensity (625nm)
in oxygen is more quickly than that in nitrogen atmosphere. It indicates that the oxygen
interstitial defect states in the nanowires annealed in nitrogen atmosphere may have lower
localization energy than that annealed in oxygen atmosphere. Moreover, the variation of the
emission peak in the visible spectrum with annealing atmosphere suggests that the optical
properties of the ZnO nanowires are tunable which will be quite useful for the optoelectronic
applications.
八、計畫成果自評
本專題研究之相關研究成果如下所示：
1. In this study, it could be observed that roughness of ZnO films grown on Si substrate was
smaller than that prepared on glass substrate.
2. In this study, it was found ZnO seed-layer films were introduced not only as a nucleation
centers but also as a controllable alignment agent for the synthesis of ZnO nanowires.
3. In this study, it was found that the preparation of seed-layer films by sol-gel reaction was
significantly affected by the sol concentration.
4. In this study, the high quality ZnO nanowires have been successfully synthesized on ZnO
film-coated substrates by a simple, low cost, and reproducible hydrothermal technique.
5. In this study, CL spectra of the as-grown and annealed ZnO nanowires were studied as well.
The oxygen or nitrogen thermal annealing was confirmed as an effective method to change
the visible luminescence emissions.
6. The paper supported from this research has been published on J Mater Sci: Mater Electron
(2008) DOI 10.1007/s10854-008-9772-4 (SCI)
Title: The structural and optical properties of ZnO nanowire arrays prepared by hydrothermal
synthesis method.
7. The paper supported from this research is to be published on J Mater Sci: Mater Electron
(2008) DOI 10.1007/s10854-008-9712-3 (SCI)
Title: Electrical and optical properties of ZnO:Al thin films grown by magnetron sputtering.
Fig. 1. 3D AFM images: (a) bare silicon substrate, (b) ZnO film deposited on silicon
substrate, (c) bare glass substrate, (d) ZnO film deposited on glass substrate.
Fig. 4 (a) TEM image of the ZnO nanowire synthesized at solution concentration 0.12M of
zinc nitrate (b) HR-TEM image taken from an individual ZnO nanowire.
Fig. 5 Visible CL spectra of the ZnO nanowires thermal annealed at 550°C for different
reaction times in (a) oxygen (b) nitrogen atmospheres.
除了自己的報告之外，其餘的時間都在努力聽演講，希望能夠把握出國參加研討會的難得機
會，努力收集相關訊息與資料，因此在參加研討會的五天時間裡，總共聆聽了 13 場專題演講
與 56 場研究口頭報告。
二、與會心得
參加研討會是一項投資報酬率相當高的活動，藉由短短 5天的會議，就能知道目前世界
最新的趨勢與進展。由這幾年參加的經驗，發現目前的研究漸漸走向元件化與實用化，主辦
單位希望大家能將研究與應用相結合，因此和應用有關的研究大多排在前面報告，而屬於基
礎研究的題目則會排在較後面的場次。這樣的現象也讓自己意識到，將來的研究方向可能需
要做一些調整，以符合時代的需求。參加研討會，除了能夠吸收到目前最新之研究訊息，另
一個很大的收穫，就是能夠認識許多同一領域的前輩，也因此擴充了人脈，增加和他人一起
合作的機會。最後要誠摯的感謝國科會的經費補助，使本人能夠參與本次盛會，本人將利用
在研討會所吸收的知識與收集到的豐富資料，應用在往後的研究當中，希望能對國內之學術
研究盡一份微薄的力量。
Abstract
ZnO nanowire arrays have been grown on the ZnO film-coated silicon (100) substrates by
hydrothermal method, and the deposited nanowires are found to have a uniform size distribution
with sharp hexagonal-shaped tips. The structural and optical properties of the nanowires were
investigated using atomic force microscopy (AFM), X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning electron
microscopy (SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and cathodoluminescence (CL)
techniques. The XRD and SEM results demonstrate that the well-aligned ZnO nanowires are single
crystalline structure formed along the c-axis orientation. TEM analysis further confirms that the
ZnO nanowires are highly preferred grown along the (002) crystal plane. The spacing between
adjacent (002) lattice planes is estimated as 0.52 nm. The optical properties of the nanowires were
measured using CL after annealing in oxygen and nitrogen atmospheres at 550C for various times.
The CL spectra in the visible spectrum exhibit two weak deep-level emission bands that may be
attributed to the intrinsic or extrinsic defects. It can be observed that the ZnO nanowires show
different optical behaviors after various annealing times. The dependence of the optical properties
on the annealing conditions is also discussed.
property is discussed.
2. Experimental
Vertically aligned ZnO nanowires were synthesized on the p-type silicon (Si) substrates
through a ZnO-seed-assisted hydrothermal method without the presence of metal catalysts. Prior to
the growth of ZnO nanowires, the Si substrates (100) were cleaned by a standard Radio Corporation
of America (RCA) cleaning method and rinsed in acetone for 30 min to remove pollutants. Then,
the ZnO seed-layer film about 40nm in thickness were deposited on Si substrates by the
conventional radio-frequency (RF) magnetron sputtering with argon as working gas, and
subsequently in-situ annealing at 550°C for 3h. X-ray diffraction measurement demonstrated that
the sputtered ZnO seed-layer film was oriented along the c-axis preferred direction (not shown here).
The 0.08 - 0.16M aqueous solutions of zinc nitrate hexahydrate and hexamethylenetetramine (HMT)
were prepared. Then, the Si substrate with ZnO seed-layer film was placed in the aqueous solution
and maintained at 95C with stable stirring in thermostatically controlled bath for 3h. The as-grown
ZnO nanowires were rinsed in deionized water and then dried in air for further characterization and
analysis.
The surface roughness of the ZnO seed-layer film was observed by the atomic force
microscopy (AFM) using a silicon nitride tip in contact mode. The crystalline structure and
orientation of the nanowires was characterized by the X-ray difractometry using CuKα (λ=1.5418Å) 
radiation. The morphology and the microstructure of the ZnO nanowires over the substrates were
shown that the ZnO nanowires can be effectively grown at a low temperature (95C) by
ZnO-seed-assisted hydrothermal method. Such a low temperature synthesized method can broaden
many various applications of optoelectronic devices that prepared under low-temperature
fabrication procedures.
Fig. 3 (a)-(d) illustrates the top-view and cross-sectional FE-SEM images of ZnO nanowires
fabricated at various concentrations of aqueous solution. The nanowires with uniformity in their
diameters and lengths are produced successfully on ZnO film-coated Si substrates by hydrothermal
technique. It can be observed the concentration of aqueous solutions plays a crucial role in the
synthesis of the nanowires. The SEM images reveal that morphologies of the ZnO nanowires
synthesized by various solution concentrations are apparently different. With dependence on the
concentration of aqueous solution, the diameters of the nanowires are demonstrated to increase with
an increase of solution concentration in the range of 0.08 –0.16M. The average diameters of the
ZnO nanowires for solution concentration of 0.08, 0.12, and 0.16M are 36, 95, and 127 nm,
respectively. Further structural characterizations of the ZnO nanowires are studied by TEM and
HRTEM.
Fig. 4(a) shows the TEM image of a well-developed ZnO nanowire with diameter
approximately 65nm in accordance with the SEM measurement. It displays that the synthesized
nanowire is really straight and has a smooth surface. The diameters of the nanowires are found to
slightly decrease from the root to the tip along their lengths. The lattice-resolved HRTEM image
pattern measured from one individual nanowire is shown in Fig. 4(b). The crystal lattice fringes are
oxygen is more quickly than that in nitrogen atmosphere. It indicates that the oxygen interstitial
defect states in the nanowires annealed in nitrogen atmosphere may have lower localization energy
than that annealed in oxygen atmosphere. Moreover, the variation of the emission peak in the
visible spectrum with annealing atmosphere suggests that the optical properties of the ZnO
nanowires are tunable which will be quite useful for the optoelectronic applications.
4. Conclusions
The high quality ZnO nanowires have been successfully synthesized on ZnO film-coated
silicon substrates by a simple, low cost, and reproducible hydrothermal technique. XRD and SEM
measurements demonstrate that the ZnO nanowires are single crystal phase with wurtzite structure.
TEM and HRTEM are used to observe the fine structure of the nanowires. The results exhibit that
the ZnO nanowire are highly preferential growth in the c-axis direction with lattice spacing of 0.52
nm. CL spectra of the as-grown and annealed ZnO nanowires are studied as well. The oxygen or
nitrogen thermal annealing is confirmed as an effective method to change the visible luminescence
emissions. Absorbed water or surface hydroxyl (OH) groups is believed to result in the
green-yellow emission around 575 nm, and oxygen interstitial the main factor on the orange-red
emission about 625 nm.
Yang, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 42 (2003) 3031.
[13] D. H. Liu, L. Liao, J. C. Li, H. X. Guo, and Q. Fu, Mater. Sci. Eng. B 121 (2005) 77.
[14] L. E. Greene, B. D. Yuhas, M. Law, D. Zitoun, and P. Yang, Inorg. Chem. 45 (2006) 7535.
[15] Y. C. Kong, D. P. Yu, B. Zhang, W. Fang, and S. Q. Feng, Appl. Phys. Lett. 78 (2001) 407.
[16] Y. P. Wang, W. I. Lee, and T. Y. Tseng, Appl. Phys. Lett. 69 (1996) 1807.
[17] R. Xie, D. Li, D. Yang, T. Sekiguchi, and M. Jiang, Nanotech. 17 (2006) 2789.
[18] X. L. Wu, G. G. Siu, C. L. Fu, and H. C. Ong, Appl. Phys. Lett. 78 (2001) 2285.
[19] S. N. Bai, H. H. Tsai, and T. Y. Tseng, Thin Solid Films, 516 (2007) 155.
Fig. 1 Bai et al.
Fig. 3 Bai et al.
