 I
Abstract 
 
Nanosacle materials have attracted considerable attention because their electronic, optical, 
magnetic, and chemical properties differ dramatically from the respective bulk materials in a 
size-dependence manner. For example, periodic arrays of magnetic 
nanowires hold high potential for recording media application and they are also potential 
candidates for sensor and bio-medical applications. Moreover, the synthesis of semiconductor 
quantum dots provides very interesting substances due to size-dependence or quantum 
confinement effect, opening a way to the fabrication of new optoelectronic devices, lasers, and 
photodetectors.  
One promising technique with which to obtain nanostructure arrays is based on utilizing 
porous templates. In this work, we have studied the magnetic nanowires and semiconductor 
nanocrystals grown by electro-deposition using porous anodic aluminum oxide and mesoporous 
silica templates.     
For magnetic nanowires, we can tune the crystallinity of Ni nanowires by changing the growth 
potential. The Ni nanowire is face-centered cubic structure with diameter of 55 nm as implied in 
TEM images. The electrical properties of single Ni nanowires were characterized by physical 
property measurement system (PPMS). We use superconducting quantum interference device 
(SQUID) to investigate the magnetic anisotropy of the Ni nanowires. The magnetic properties 
such as magnetic anisotropy and coercivic filed of Ni nanowires are found to correlate with the 
crystal structure.  
For semiconductor nanocrystals, CdSe nanocrystals (NCs) are important for applications such 
as labeling of biomolecules, light-emitting diodes (LEDs), and others. Here, we present a 
systematic study of CdSe nanocrystals intercalated in silica templates. From high-resolution TEM 
images and corresponding diffraction patterns, CdSe nanocrystals are composed mainly of 
zinc-blende structure, however some are mixed of zinc-blend and wurtzite phases. Further, we 
have investigated the surface effect of silica templates on CdSe nanocrystals by 
photoluminescence and Raman spectra.    
 
Keywords: AAO, Ni nanowires, Magnetic, anisotropy, CdSe, mesoporous silica, Raman, 
superlattice
 III
Content 
1. Introduction……………………………………………………………………………….1 
2. Research Methods…………………………………………………………………………3 
2.1 Magnetic nanowires ……………………………………………………………….......3 
2.2 CdSe nanpcrystals……………………………………………………………………… 
3. Results and discussion 
  3.1 Ni nanowires 
  3.2 Ni/Cu multi-layered nanowires 
  3.3 CdSe nanocrystals inercalated in porous silica templates 
  3.4 CdSe superlattice  
4. References 
5. Self-evaluation 
 2
spectra and Raman scattering, showing the dependence on the porous size of porous silica 
templates.   
 
In the frames of the project, fabrication of porous membranes with different pore size and 
synthesize nanostructures using these templates would be taken by the Russian side. The Taiwan 
side would be focused on morphological characterization of nanostructures using TEM and 
analysis of other physical properties.  
 
2. Research methods 
 
2.1 Ni nanowires and Ni/Cu multi-layered nanowires 
 
The magnetic nanowire arrays investigated in this work are produced by electrodeposition into 
the pores of homemade alumina pores. When aluminum is anodized in an acid electrolyte, 
aluminum oxide with self-assembled nanosized densely packed pore arrays were form. The 
diameter, center-to-center spacing between the pores and lengths of the pores can be easily 
controlled by varying the electrochemical parameters. In comparison with most polycarbonate 
porous templates available commercially, the membranes used show narrower size distribution 
and improved shape regularity and parallel alignment of the pores. The structural characterization 
of Ni nanowire arrays and Ni/Cu multilayered nanowires was performed using transmission 
electron microscopy (TEM). The composition was analyzed by electron energy loss spectrum 
(EELS). Moreover, the electrical and magnetic properties of magnetic nanowires were 
investigated by PPMS and SQUID, respectively. 
 
2.2 CdSe nanocrystals 
 
CdSe nanocrystals were grown by chemical solution method using mesoporous silica as 
template. Mesoporous silica matrices were prepared by polycondensation of 
tetraethylorthosilicate (TEOS, 98 %, Aldrich) in the aqueous template solution 
(CnH2n+1(CH3)3NBr, where n=12, 16 and 18; Aldrich 99 %) with basic catalyst (pH≈12, NH3). 
The final molar ratio of reactants was: 1 ТЕОS : 0.152 CnH2n+1(CH3)3NBr : 2.8 NH3 : 141.2 H2O. 
Precipitates were filtered out, washed with deionized water to pH=7, and dried at 363 K for 12 
hours. The template was removed by annealing of the samples on oxygen flow at 550oC for 10 
hours (heating and cooling rates 1oC per minute). The synthesis of CdSe nanoparticles was 
carried out by the method suggested by Murray et al. [20]. Cadmium oleate was obtained by 
reaction of cadmium acetate (1 mmol) and oleic acid (4 mmol) in 10 ml of diphenyl ether at 140 
°C for one hour in argon flow. Simultaneously, selenium powder was dissolved in 1.45 ml of 
trioclytphosphine yielding 1 M solution of trioctylphosphine selenide (TOPSe). Then the 
temperature of cadmium oleate solution was raised to 180 °C and solution of TOPSe was added. 
The reaction mixture was maintained at this temperature for 5 minutes and rapidly cooled down 
to the room temperature. CdSe colloid was precipitated by equal volume of acetone, washed and 
 4
preferential magnetic orientation. In contrast, -1V sample exhibits increased coercive fields of 
about 700 Oe and improved magnetic hardness 95% squareness which indicated a preferential 
magnetic orientation along the wire axis, owing to the large shape anisotropy. The shape of the 
nanowires (with aspect ratio of 1500) results in a very strong shape anisotropy, far higher in fact 
than the magnetocrystalline anisotropy, so that the easy axis orients along the nanowires. 
Nevertheless, magnetocrystalline also contributes to the magnetic anisotropy, thus the canted 
magnetization observed in -2V sample is attributed to the polycrystalline structure. Further, we 
have measured the dependence of coercive field with growth potential. As displayed in table 1, 
the coercive field is found to decrease with the increasing growth potential, which results from 
the transformation of domain structures, i.e., from single domain to multidomain. Additionally, 
dipolar interaction also has influence on the coercivic field. Both sample A1 and sample B1 are 
single crystalline, but the coercivity of sample A1 is smaller than that of sample B1, which results 
from the stronger interaction between nanowires (smaller interpore distance) found in sample A1.        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Fig. 4(a), a typical sample structure for electrical measurement is shown obtained by 
scanning electron microscopy. Pt leads deposited by focus ion beam (FIB) provide the electrical 
contacts of one individual nanowire to carry out 4 point probe resistance measurements. The 
resistance for the isolated nanowire was 100 MΩ at room temperature for a resistivity of 8.7x10-2 
Ω/cm. This is four order of magnitude greater than the resistivity of bulk Ni which indicated that 
the nanowires are oxidized and the contact is not good.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.3 Magnetic hysteresis loops of Ni nanowires grown at different 
potential (a) -1 V (b) -2 V.   
Table 1 Coercivic field of Ni nanowires grown with 
different potential.   
Fig. 4 Resistivity measurement of an isolated Ni nanowire. (a) SEM picture of a connected Nanowire. (b) I-V curve.    
(b) (a) 
 6
The current-voltage (I-V) response for Ni/Cu multi—layered nanowires is shown in Fig. 8. 
Post-annealing in a reducing environmentwas investigated as a simple way to improve electrical 
contact. Electrical characteristics of the nanowires were investigated before and after 30 min of 
annealing at 300 ◦C in a reducing environment. As shown by curve a in figure 8(b), the resistance 
of the Ni nanowires was very high and exceeded 10 MΩ. The total resistance must be dominated 
by the contact term, which must be influenced by an oxide layer on the surface of Ni nanowire 
and other insulating residue remaining after nanowire preparation and assembly. After annealing 
in a reducing environment, the Ni nanointerconnection shows a metallic I–V characteristic with a 
dramatic reduction in the resistance from almost insulating to 344Ω as shown by curve b in figure 
8(b), and the resistivity is estimated to be 1.81x10-4 Ω–cm. This means the contact resistance was 
significantly reduced by annealing in reducing environment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3 CdSe nanocrystals intercalated in porous silica templates 
 
  Here, we studied the CdSe nanocrystals intercalated in porous silica template with three 
different pore sizes of 2.4, 3.9 and 7.7 nm which are labeled as sample A, B, and C, respectively. 
Fig. 9 shows a representative TEM image of porous template with pore size of 7.7 nm. The silica 
membrane is made of arrays of the hexagonal pores with one dimension channels.  
  Figure 10(a) is a TEM image suggesting that as-synthesized CdSe nanocrystals have an 
irregular shape and a broad size distribution from 2 to 10 nm and some aggregation are observed. 
In Fig. 10(b), high resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and the corresponding 
FFT image indicate that nanocrystal is single crystal with zinc-blende stucture. The lattice 
spacing of CdSe was measured carefully as 1.23 Å, which was consistent with the lattice spacing 
between  planes for cubic CdSe. However, we found that some nanocrystals exist in mixed 　　
wurtzite and zinc-blene phases as shown in Fig. 10(c). In Fig. 10, intercalation of CdSe 
nanocrystals in silica templates (sample A) exhibits similar result of crystal structure with the as 
grown as ones. But the shape and the size seem to be stabilized as confined by the silica matrix. 
The diameter of the nanocrstals intercalated in silica is the same as the pore size of the silica 
membranes.    
 
 
Fig.8 Resistivity measurement of a single Ni./Cu multi-layered nanowire. (a) SEM image (b) I-V curve.    
(a) (b) 
 8
(a) from quantum confinement due to phonon wave vector dispersion and (b) from strain induced 
by the lattice mismatch. The former always leads to frequency red-shifts, with significant effects 
usually only for ultrathin, whereas the latter effect can yield either phonon red- or blue-shifts, 
depending if the lattice is expanded or contracted, respectively. The small LO red-shifts observed 
in intercalated CdSe samples have been attributed to the compensation between quantum 
confinement and compressive strain effects. The presence of the latter effect is indeed suggested 
from the compressive strain induced by the silica matrix. However, no Raman peak is detected in 
sample C which might be due to the relatively low amount of CdSe compared to the silica matrix.    
In Fig. 14, we show the Raman spectra using 632.8 nm laser as excitation source. The as-grown 
CdSe sample yields a characteristically strong LO phonon band at 203.1 cm-1, with an overtone 
also evident at 410 cm-1 (curve a). We also observed the LO frequency blue-shifts with increasing 
CdSe size, from 207 cm-1 in sample A to 210 cm-1 in sample C. It is also noted that these bands 
blue shifts as excited by 633 nm as compared to the laser excitation at 532 nm. Interestingly, all 
spectra show two well-resolved vibrational modes at about 235 and 250 cm-1 are arose from the 
silica templates since these two peaks are also detected in the pure silica templates as shown in 
the curve (e) These two new Raman lines observed here can be attributed to the resonance Raman 
scattering since the energy of 632.8 nm laser is close to the band gap of silica.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4 CdSe superlattice  
 
CdSe nanocrystals in the size range of 3 to 10 nm were synthesized as discussed in section 3.3. 
Nanocrystals with narrow size distribution were obtained by using porous silica for selection. The 
3D superlattice was fabricated by a three-layer technique described in the as shown in Fig. 17(a). 
According to this method, crystallization of nanoparticles was driven by slowing the diffusion 
rate of a non-solvent (methanol) into a CdSe nanocrystal soultion through a buffer layer of 
Fig. 14 Micro Raman spectra of CdSe nanocrystals 
intercalation in different silica templates (a) as grown 
sample (b) MS12 (c) MS18 (d) SBA15 (e) silica template, 
the excitation source is 632.8 nm laser.  
Fig. 13Micro Raman spectra of CdSe nanocrystals 
intercalation in different silica templates (a) MS12 (b) 
MS18 (c) SBA15, the excitation source is 532 nm laser. 
 10
4. References  
 
1. P. Moriarty, Rep. Prog. Phys. 64, 297 (2001). 
2. P. Gloria and A. Ramon, Phys. Rep. 395, 1 (2004). 
3. J. G. Hou, Bing Wang, Jinlong Yang, Kedong Wang, Wei Lu, Zhenyu Li, Haiqian Wang, D. M. 
Chen, and Qingshi Zhu, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 246803 (2003). 
4. Dana A. Schwartz, Nick S. Norberg, Quyen P. Nguyen, Jason M. Parker, and Daniel R. 
Gamelin, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125, 13205 (2003).  
5. J. S. Steckel, S. Coe-Sullivan, V. Bulovic, and M. G. Bawandi, Adv. Mater. 15, 1862 (2003). 
6. M. Hehn, K. Ounadjela, J.-P. Bucher, F. Rousseaux, D. Decanini, B. Bartenlian, and C. 
Chappert, Science 272, 1782 (1996). 
7. A. Goldini, A. Baraldi, G. Comelli, S. Lizzit, and G. Paolucci, Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 3156 
(1999) 
8. R.H.M. Smit, C. Untiedt, A.I. Yanson, and J.M. van Ruitenbeek, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 266102 
(2001). 
9. Sulitanu, N, Mater. Sci. Eng. B95, 230-235 (2002).  
10. Osaka, T, Electrochimica Acta 45, 3311-3321 (2000). 
11. S. Sun, C. B. Murray, D. Weller, L. Folks, and A. Moser, Science 287, 1989 (2000). 
12. T. M. Whitney, J. S. Jiang, P. C. Searson, and C. L. Chien, Science 261, 1318 (1993). 
13. J. Li, C. Papadopoulos, and J. M. Xu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 75, 367 (1999). 
14. G. Hodes, A. Albuyaron, F. Decker, and P. Motisuke, Phys. Rev. B 36, 4215 (1987). 
15. C. B. Murray and M. G. Bawendi, Science 270, 1335 (1995). 
16. W. C. Chan and S. M. Nie, Science 281, 2016 (1998). 
17. C. Ma, Y. Ding, D. Moore, X. Wang, and Z. L. Wang, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 126, 708 (2004). 
18. M. G. Bawendi, A. R. Kortan, M. L. Steigerwald, and L. E. Brus, J. Chem. Phys. 91, 7282 
(1989). 
19. S. H. Tolbert and A. P. Alivisatos, J. Chem. Phys. 102, 4642 (1995). 
20. Ji Man Kim, Yong-Jin Han, B.F. Chmelka and G.D. Stucky, Chem. Commun., 2437 (2000), 
 
5. Self-evaluation 
The achievement of this work is about 90% as compared to the expected objectives. The main 
academic contributions are as follows: 
(1) Both Ni nanowires and Ni/Cu multi-layered nanowires are successfully fabricated by 
electro-deposition in porous AAO membranes.  
(2) The crystallnity of Ni nanowires can be controlled by adjusting the growth potential, and the 
structure is shown to be FCC by TEM images. 
(3) The squareness of Ni nanowires is found to decrease with increasing growth potential and 
the magnetic anisotropy is rotated from the wire axis to the canted direction.  
(4) CdSe nanocrystals with narrow size distribution are obtained as intercalation into 
mesoporous silica templates with different pore sizes. 
(5) The maximum PL peak value is blue shifted with the decreasing size of CdSe nanocrystal. 
國立成功大學國科會計畫出國報告書 
 
 
 
報告名稱： Report for visiting the collaborators in Moscow, Russia 
 
出國期間：2009, 7, 5 ~ 2009, 7, 11 
經費來源：國科會計畫 
單位：Department of Materials science and Engineering 
職稱：Professor 
姓名：Chuan-Pu Liu (劉全璞) 
聯絡電話：62943 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中華民國 98年  7月  22日
Abstract 
 
During the period of July 5-11, 2009, I made the third visit to Moscow State 
University and have very extensive interactions with them. This report includes the 
objective, schedule and details; several meetings; preparation for articles, discussing in 
depth for future collaboration. This project is a three-year project funded by National 
Science Counsel and we acknowledge them for supporting us to do some beautiful works 
together. I think we have obtained some promising and new results, which should lead to 
at least three papers, we are working on right now. I have also learned a lot from this 
collaboration and they are also very impressed not only by our research results but also 
by the facilities available in National Cheng Kung University. I think this is a successful 
trip overall. 
過程 
A student from Prof. JL Huang’s group called Yu-Ming and I have arrived in 
Moscow with Japan airline in the late afternoon of July 6 (Monday). A postdoc, called 
Kirill, from Prof. Andrei Aliseev group waited at the airport and took us to a hotel to 
check in. No other activities were organized on Monday. It was cold around 15º C at this 
time. Next day on Tuesday, it was originally scheduled to meet with Prof. Andrei Aliseev, 
however, due to his urgent personal matters at home, we reschedule to meet with the 
some of the faculty members still left, such as Prof. Kazin, in the department (at this 
vacation season, I was told that most of them have gone somewhere for a long vacation). 
Most importantly, we have finally met with Prof. Yuri. Tretyakov and have presented the 
gifts to each other. At the same time, I just realized that there is another delegation from 
NCKU, four faculties in total, also scheduled to meet with Prof. Tretyakov tomorrow on 
Wednesday. In the afternoon, we were taken to visit their campus and their labs, and 
especially for a range of new equipments purchase in recent two years. The funding 
situation used to be poor in Russia, however, in recent five years, the Russian 
government have put a huge amount of budget on the materials science and 
Nanotechnology. I was quite impressed by the rapid growth and improvement on the 
availability of equipments, including a new JEOL 2100F Cs corrected transmission 
electron microscope, which costs more than 2M USD. We had a very nice dinner with 
two of their students to finish up. On Wednesday, we had a most tight schedule for all 
day discussion about all the results we have obtained in the past. Basically, we presented 
the results to each other followed by discussion for each topic. The topics were divided 
into, CdSe nanoparticles and CdSe superlattice crystal; Ni nanowires: growth, 
microstructure, and properties; Ni/Cu multilayered nanowires; nanocrystals in single wall 
carbon nanotube.  On Thursday, we spent a half-day doing nanowire and multilayered 
nanowires growth together on AAO templates by electrodeposition. We share the 
experiences to resolve some growth problems and raised some other questions at the 
same time. Since they designed the cell by themselves, the growth experiment can have 
more degree of freedom. We have certainly learned a lot from them and shall continue 
our growth experiment for more material assembly in the future. We then took a half-day 
for culture tour. On the last day of Friday, We continue discussing on the possible content 
心得 
Thanks to the national science counsel, Taiwan to initiate the joint program with 
Russia so that we had a chance to know those wonderful research teams in a most 
prestigious department in Russia. Moscow State University is ranked number 1 in Russia 
and the students are highly competitive. Through this program, we not only learn more 
knowledge for nanomaterials, but also we can extend our research capability into far-
reach research area. Besides, we also learned how a brilliant idea could still work even in 
a very hardship time lack of budgets.  They built the growth equipment on their own and 
produced the unique results that no one can produce the same. To students in Taiwan, 
they were also impressed by the way they conducted their research and they certainly 
understand they have no excuse for the bad works. Of course, in the mean time, they have 
chances to appreciate our strengths in materials characterization and gained more insights 
into the materials. The international status of our research in Taiwan has thus been 
promoted in this way. I think a long-term relationship between us has been established 
very well and we often contacted each other by Skype to discuss research. What a great 
experience and achievement!   
國立成功大學國科會計畫出國報告書 
 
 
 
報告名稱：  Report for meeting with Prof. Alliseev of Moscow State 
University in Russia for research discussion  
 
出國期間：2008, 11, 2 ~ 2008, 11, 8 
經費來源：國科會計畫 
單位：Department of Materials science and Engineering 
職稱：Professor 
姓名：Chuan-Pu Liu (劉全璞) 
聯絡電話：62943 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
中華民國 97年  11月  20日
Abstract 
 
During the period of Nov. 2-8, 2008, I attended the 9th Asia Pacific Microscopy 
Conference to meet up with Prof. Allissev to discuss further collaboration and gave three 
presentations, where one oral presentation is on HAADF and EELS study on the 
substitution and distribution of cobalt in ZnO by multilayer growth and two more 
poster presentations. In this report, I report on the objective of attending this conference, 
meeting with Prof. Alliseev, attracting more interests for collaboration. This conference 
was well attended from most major counties in Asia, however representatives from 
Taiwan are relatively less. My talk went successfully and was well received. I have 
intensive follow-up discussion and possible interests for further collaboration with Russia 
partner. I have also learned a lot from several speakers in the conference and discuss with 
them. Although microscopy emerges as an increasingly important technique for biology 
and nano-sciences, however, obviously, the total research capacity in this area in Taiwan 
still far lags behind.  However, microscopy study of the materials synthesized in Russia 
reported is very successful.  
過程 
During the last visit, we have decided to submit our work to this conference not only 
to increase our collaboration results, but also to meet with each other somewhere else for 
academic discussion without any distraction. This conference was held in a very big 
convention center in Jeju island, organized by the microscopy society of Korea and is the 
9th conference in its series. This is a five-day conference, consisting of more than 500 
papers distributed in 38 symposia, which can be categorized into three major areas, 
including Instrumentation and Techniques, Materials and Life Science. Except oral and 
poster presentations for the scientific program, there is also an exhibition, totally 37 
booths from all major companies. This conference is a big conference held every four 
years in Asia. The next country to hold the 10th conference was voted during this 
conference, which is Australia from three competitive candidates (Thailand, India and 
Australia). The chair of the Taiwanese Microscopy Society, Prof. Chen in NTHU lead a 
team of people from Taiwan to attend this conference, including several professors from 
NTHU and NTU and I am the only one from NCKU from Materials Science; and 
professors from NTU, NYMU and others from life science. Our group is relatively small 
compared to Japan, Korea, China, and Australia. There are also many participants from 
outside of Asia, including USA, UK, Germany, Canada, France with most of them were 
invited.  
The conference starts with a welcome reception on Sunday night, however, I took a 
detour through Soul international airport and missed the reception though I also arrived in 
late Sunday night. The everyday program starts with a plenary talk from 8:30, followed 
by parallel symposia until 5:30 pm. There are more plenary talks on Monday, the first day. 
On Tuesday and Thursday afternoon from 1 to 3 pm, there are two poster sessions. There 
is also photo contest, including images taken by SEM, TEM from all kinds of samples. 
All the major manufacturers related to TEM, SEM and FIB are also involved with 
exhibition for entire 5 days and luncheon meeting. The good thing to attend microscopy 
meeting is, though meals were not included in the registration fee, extensive participants 
can join company luncheon meeting for free lunch and evening party held on different 
day by different company. That is full of fun to meet with many friends and exchange 
information about the update of the equipment and research progress worldwide. For 
心得 
This conference was organized very well and well attended as before. By 
participating this conference, I have learned the recent progress made in the microscopy 
field, especially in Asia area. I can see that many useful techniques are still in 
development. However, our research activity is very low in NCKU although the facility is 
well above the average standard in most developed countries. It seems that microscopy 
plays a more and more important role and often add uncountable value to research and 
boost impact by gaining more insights. Nevertheless, while most countries are recruiting 
more people in microscopy field, we still lack of research human power and often a 
microscope was only taken as a magnifier in NCKU.  My own research need to pay more 
attention to instrumentation and technique development to strengthen the foundation of 
basic microscopy research, in addition to the extensive application of various microscopy 
techniques on the characterization of various nanomaterials.  
