node, the copper line resistance is seen to rise non-linearly, which has negative impact 
on RC delay [2, 3]. The increase of copper resistivity will become severe when the 
line-width of the copper in the metallization stack is comparable to the conduction 
electron’s mean-free-path of copper, 39 nm [4]. Fundamentally, several parameters 
may contribute to the copper resistivity increase through different scattering 
mechanisms such as (1) surface scattering arisen from surface roughness at various 
copper interface and line edge roughness induced by patterning, which can be 
described by a model developed by Fuchs and Sondheimer (FS) [5, 6], (2) grain 
boundary scattering by smaller grain size, which is described by the 
Mayadas–Shatzkes (MS) model, and (3) defect and impurity scattering [7]. However, 
it is very difficult to quantify the discrete contributions from these parameters in the 
patterned line structures due to the process variation, within-die and within-wafer 
non-uniformity and line-width variations. Recent research efforts have focused on 
blanket film stack to understand the scattering contributions [8-11]. In order to 
compare the resistivity of films with different thicknesses, but at the same grain size, 
one approach is to probe the resistivity along the beveled surface of a thin copper film 
based on scanning resistance probe (SRP) technique [reference]. The other approach 
is to polish thick copper films back to various desired thicknesses, which are 
measured by conventional four-point-probe (FFP), which will be described in details 
in the following section. In the backend interconnects, copper metallization stack 
consists of electroplated Cu/PVD seed/PVD Ta/TaN barrier/dielectric in the line 
structure. As the copper thickness or line-width reduces below 100 nm, PVD copper 
seed may play a role in controlling the grain size in the copper thin film, in turn its 
resistivity. However, the contribution from grain size of copper seed is still not well 
understood yet. The objective of this study is to elucidate the role of the grain size of 
copper seed on copper resistivity and copper final grain size in very thin electroplated 
copper films. 
 
II. Experimental 
  
 In order to investigate the effects of seed and its grain size on the resistivity 
of thin electroplated copper films, two sets of samples with two different seed grain 
sizes, but at various thicknesses ranging from 20 to 200 nm are designed and prepared, 
assuming that the impurity scattering is the same in all cases described below.  
 
Preparation of sample set #1 (copper seed with large grain) 
 A 450 nm SiO2 film is first deposited onto a 12-inch bare silicon wafer 
(p-type, Si(001)) as the substrate. Then, 50 nm Ta is deposited by ionized 
 2
(8 minute). Then, two metal probes with a load of about 10g are aligned parallel to the 
bevel edge and later are stepped (with 1 mm step) from the surface toward the 
substrate while measuring the resistance. The typical depth resolution thus obtained is 
about 6 nm. For silicon, this procedure is known to result in high-quality beveled 
surfaces with sharp bevel edge delineation. In this work, we will explore the 
capabilities of SRP for metal resistivity characterization of thin films with the same 
grain size. 
 
III. Results and Discussion   
 
SRP technique is first employed for characterizing the resistivity of copper thin 
films with the same grain size. The raw data obtained from known test sample is 
comparable to that of published papers [12]. However, we encounter technical 
complications when converting the raw data to resistivity which is based on many 
assumptions. One of the required parameters, contact resistance (Rc), which is related 
to the conditions of tip and beveled surface, could not be consistently obtained due to 
the condition of rough, beveled surface [12,14]. In addition, our SRP system can only 
measure resistance larger than 1 ohm, which is equivalent to copper thickness below 
80 nm if the bulk Cu resistivity of 1.8 μΩ-cm is applied. Because of its limited 
thickness range (< 80 nm) and difficulties in the validation of assumptions, SRP 
measurement is dropped until better instrumentation and sample preparation are 
available. The result in this section is based on four-point probe measurements of a 
series of thicknesses in either set #1 or 2 as described in the experimental section. 
 
Since thin copper films (20-50 nm) is normally employed as the seeding layer to 
reduce the IR drop across the wafer during the subsequent ECP copper in the typical 
dual damascene process, the relationship between resistivity and PVD seed thickness 
will be first studied using the sample set #2 in the range between 20 and 200 nm. The 
resistivity as a function of thickness shown in Figure 4 indicates that copper resistivity 
increases significantly as thickness decreases below 100 nm. A 50% increase is seen 
for 30 nm thick film (3.0 μΩ-cm) as compared to that of 200 nm thick film (2.0 
μΩ-cm). FIB is employed to measure the copper grain sizes in 20 nm PVD Cu 
seed/80 nm PVD Cu and 20 nm PVD Cu seed/200 nm PVD Cu as shown in Figure 
5(a) and Figure 5(b), respectively. The average grain size in 100 nm PVD copper film 
is 600 nm while the grain size in 220 nm PVD copper is 900 nm. Preliminary data on 
copper grain size shows clear increase in grain size with increasing thickness. The 
drastic increase of resistivity with decreasing thickness below 100 nm shown in 
Figure 4 is presumably dominated by grain boundary scattering [13].  
 4
of fixed in ECP copper films copper grain size. This study points out that future 
directions of resistivity reduction beyond 65 nm technology can be achieved primarily 
through the control of grain size including the seed grain, which, in turn, will slow 
down the increase of RC delay in the backend interconnects. 
 
V. Future studies 
 We plan to complete another set of samples with small seed grain size for various 
ECP copper thickness at constant grain size to further elucidate the importance of seed 
layer and the impact of seed microstructure on copper resistivity. In addition, we plan 
to explore an efficient method for characterizing the resistivity of thin metal films at 
the constant grain structure because (1) FFP is time consuming in sample preparation 
and thickness calibration [16] and (2) SRP is not robust method for metal resistivity 
due to many hypotheses [17]. 
 
VI. Acknowledgements 
 This project is supported by National Science Council under contract number: 
94-2216-E-009-008. The authors would like to express their appreciation for the 
samples preparation by Mr. Shu-Jen Chen (陳樹仁) and Mr. Chia-Lin Hsu (許嘉麟) 
of United Microelectronics Corp. (UMC), Tainan, Taiwan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
VIII. Figures and Captions 
Figure 1      Schematic diagram of sample set#1 
 
Figure 2       Schematic diagram of sample set#2 
 
Figure 3      Schematic diagram of the spreading resistance probe (SRP). 
 
Figure 4      Resistivity of PVD copper films as a function of thickness. 
 
Figure 5(a)    Focus ion beam (FIB) viewgraph of a 20 nm PVD Cu seed/80 nm 
PVD Cu stack. The average grain size in 100 nm PVD copper film is 
600 nm. 
 
Figure 5(b)    Focus ion beam (FIB) viewgraph of a 20 nm PVD Cu seed/200 nm 
PVD Cu stack. The average grain size in 200 nm PVD copper film is 
900 nm. 
 
Figure 6   Resistivity of ECP copper films as a function of  thicknesses. 
 
Figure 7(a)    Focus ion beam (FIB) viewgraph of a 20 nm CMP Cu seed/60 nm 
ECP Cu stack. The average grain size in 80 nm ECP copper film is 
900 nm. 
 
Figure 7(b)    Focus ion beam (FIB) viewgraph of a 20 nm CMP Cu seed/120 nm 
PVD Cu stack. The average grain size in 140 nm ECP copper film is 
900 nm. 
 
Figure 8      Resistivity of PVD copper films and ECP copper films as a function 
of thickness. 
   
 
 8
 
 
 
Figure 3    Schematic diagram of the spreading resistance probe (SRP). 
 
 
 
 
20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200
2.0x10-6
2.2x10-6
2.4x10-6
2.6x10-6
2.8x10-6
3.0x10-6 PVD seed/ PVD copper
R
es
is
tiv
ity
(u
-o
hm
/c
m
)
THICKNESS (nm)
 
Figure 4   Resistivity of PVD copper films as a function of thickness.  
 
 10
