1計畫摘要：
This project is the first-year project of a three-year duration project. The goal of this
project is to examine the hardware implementation of the proposed speech recognition on
FPGA chip and is for the preparation of the following projects. Since the speech control of
robot is the goal of the three-year project, the experiment of hardware implementation of the
proposed speech recognition algorithm is necessary in the first year. This project includes the
exploration of using HMM algorithm to construct speech recognition platform which be
speeded up on embedded system of FPGA by Integer FFT. On embedded system the computing
speed is not as fast as personal computer. This will causes that speech recognition takes much
time and power; and further, it didn’t satisfy the real time requirement. In this project, we use
Integer FFT to replace Float FFT. It will be shown that the propose method only lost a little
recognition rate while reduce much computing time.
關鍵字：
Speech Recognition, Hidden Markov Model, Integer Fast Fourier Transform, FPGA.
計畫內容：
I. INTRODUCTION
Human dependence on 3C products is higher and higher with technology progress. Products must
have attractive functions and good services. The interface between product and user is quite
important too. For example handwritten input and touch screen monitor are favored by users.
Recently, there are many researches about speech recognition [1~6] because speech recognition is a
standard interface in the future.
According to the developing time, the first recognition platform is Dynamic Time Warping(DTW)
[4] which used dynamic programming [7] to compare target speech and sample speech to find the
result of recognition. Later, Artificial Neural Network(ANN) was proposed to replace DTW for
speech recognition. Because of the structure of ANN can not be changed after decided, therefore
the recognition rate can’t be improved by online learning. Last, Hidden Markov Model(HMM) [8]
was widely applied. It can solve the problem of speech speed and be constructed layer by layer to
achieve automatic speech recognition(ASR).
Before recognition, speech signal have to be beforehand processed. After these processes which
are include speech sampling, point detection, pre-emphasis, hamming window and feature capture
we get the features of speech than we
Now the researches of speech recognition put emphasis on how to recognize under noise
environment and speed up the recognition. The feature of speech signal which was used in this
project is Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficient(MFCC) [8].
The process of Mel-frequency Cepstrum Coefficient has many floating-point operations which
will take much time and power of embedded system. We use Integer FFT [9] to replace Float FFT
[10].
II. SPEECH PRE-PROCESSING
A. Speech Sampling
The continuous speech data which was recorded by microphone must be transformed into discrete
data because computer only can process discrete data. All values which were recorded at any fixed
3B. Hidden Markov Model
HMM is a double layers random process. Transfer of hidden states corresponds transfer of
observations. The model can describe speech; frames are observations and change of speech organs
is transfer of hidden states. We can calculate the probability of the model creating the target speech.
Highest probability of all models represent that the model is the result of recognition [8].
IV. INTEGER FAST FOURIER TRANSFORM
As for its application on the Embedded Platform, if Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficient uses
DFT [10] to switch time domain to frequency domain, the burdens of time will be too huge; so we
use FFT to increase the speed. However, due to the limitation of FFT, the sampling points of each
audio frame should be limited in 2n times.
A. FFT Algorithm
To switch the signal from time domain to frequency domain is caled “Discrete Fourier
Transform”, and its formula is as the folowing:  




1
0
;10,][][
N
n
kn
N NkWnxkX
In which, e N
j
nW
2
 ; and N is the number of sampling points in an audio frame.
When we calculate DFT, we can acquire high efficiency by decomposing and calculating it to be
many serial small DFT and then figure out. During this process, both the symmetry and the cycle of
the complex number index eW knNjknN





2
are used. The decomposition of the algorithm is based on
decomposing the sequence x[n] into many smal sequences; hence, it is caled “Time Division 
Algorithm”.First, the DFT in is decomposed as
 





1
2
0
1
2
0
2/2/ ][][][][][
N
n
N
n
k
N
nk
N
k
N
nk
N kGWkFWngWWnfkX
In which f[n]=x[2n] and g[n]=x[2n+1] are the even sampling and odd sampling of x[n].
Figure 1 shows the time division for 8-point FFT. The required multiplication 2N can be
descended to be )(log22 N
N .
Fig. 1 The time division for 8-point FFT
5About HMM, we decide that the HMM has 7 hidden states, 64 observations; every model starts at
state 1 and state only can jump to next or next 2 state like Figure 3. All frames corresponds to HMM
like Figure 4.
Fig. 3 HMM states structure
Fig. 4 HMM corresponding diagram
A. Implement On Embedded System
In this project, we use FPGA development board to implement real-time speech recognition
system. We first use computer to train HMM and measure the recognition rate because the
development board can not upload too many speech file. The domain of recognition target is 0~9.
Each number was recorded 100 times. Training data and testing data are the same; we want to
compare the difference of recognition rate between using Float FFT and Integer FFT. Speed of
recognition is measured on development board.
From Table 1 and Table 2, we can see that the speech recognition by using Float FFT and Integer
FFT are very close to each other. This means that it will cause only little decrease on the recognition
rate by using Integer FFT. On the other hand, from Table 3, it is obviously that the speed of speech
recognition is much improved by using Integer FFT.
Table 1 The speech recognition rate by using Float FFT
Speech Correct
(time)
Wrong
(time)
Recognition
rate
(%)
Total
(%)
0 98 2 0.98
1 96 4 0.96
2 99 1 0.99
3 100 0 1
4 100 0 1
5 100 0 1
6 94 6 0.94
7 85 15 0.85
8 100 0 1
9 100 0 1
0.972
7REFERENCES
[1] C. Neves, A. Veiga, L. Sa, and F. Perdigao, “Efficient Noise-robust Speech Recognition
Front-end Based on The ETSI Standard,”International Conference on Signal Processing, pp.
609–612, 2008.
[2] J. McAuley, J. Ming, D. Stewart, and P. Hanna, “Subband Correlation and Robust Speech
Recognition,”IEEE Transactions on Speech and Audio Processing, Vol. 13, pp.956-964,
2005.
[3] B.A. Sonkamble and D.D. Doye, “An Overview of Speech Recognition System Based on
The Support Vector Machines,” International Conference on Computer and Communication
Engineering, pp. 768–771, 2008.
[4] C. Wan and L. Liu, “Research and Improvement on Embedded System Application of
DTW-based Speech Recognition,”International Conference on Anti-counterfeiting, Security
and Identification, pp. 401–404, 2008.
[5] T. Kinjo and K. Funaki,“On HMM Speech Recognition Based on Complex Speech Analysis,”
Conference on IEEE Industrial Electronics, pp. 3477–3480, 2006.
[6] T. Jitsuhiro, T. Toriyama, and K. Kogure, “Robust Speech Recognition Using Noise
Suppression Based on Multiple Composite Models and Multi-pass Search,”IEEE Workshop on
Automatic Speech Recognition & Understanding, pp.53-58, 2007.
[7] T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, and C. Stein, Introduction to Algorithms 2nd
Editon. McGraw-Hill, 2002.
[8] X. Huang, A. Acero, and H. Wuenon, Spoken Language Pprocessing A Guide to Theory,
Algorithm and System Developmen. Pearson, 2005.
[9] S. Oraintara, Y.J. Chen, and T.Q.Nguyen, “Integer Fast Fourier Transform,”IEEE Transation
on SIGNAL PROCESSING, Vol. 50, pp. 607-618, 2002.
[10]A. V. Oppenheim, R. W.Schafer, and J. R Buck, Discrete-Time Signal Processing 2nd Edition.
Pearson, 2005.
[11]S. Haykin and B. V. Veen, Signals and Systems 2nd Edition. Wiley, 2003.
計畫成果自評:
本計畫是三年期計畫的第一年，此三年期計畫的主要目的是：結合嵌入式系統及可規劃
晶片 FPGA 來完成機器人語音辨識與行為控制，與傳統的以 PC 為平台的控制系統比較，將
可使機器人的控制平台體積大大的縮小，讓人形機器人的活動可以輕便自如。因此第一年的
計畫的主要工作是語音辨識硬體的實現，以便於未來新的語音辨識演算法則發展過程，得以
在硬體平台做實驗，避免先發展演算法，而後才發現不適用於現有的硬體平台之窘境。
本年度的執行結果符合預期，所使用的語音辨識法則在硬體平台上的辨識效果佳，約在
96%左右，辨識率極高。且本計畫使用了整數 FFT，使得硬體的辨識時間提高甚多。未來在補
強其強健性的特性後，相信此結果可以發表在優良國際期刊上，也可申請國內外的專利。
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
99年 3月 8日
報告人姓名 潘欣泰 服務機構
及職稱
國立高雄大學 資訊工程學系
副教授
時間
會議
地點
2009年 08月 20 -- 24日
韓國 濟州島
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 97-2221-E-390-022
會議
名稱
(中文) 2009 IEEE 模糊系統國際研討會
(英文) 2009 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems
發表
論文
題目
(中文) 一個結合改良式微型遺傳演算法與奇異值分解之浮水印方法
(英文) An SVD-Based Watermarking Scheme Using Improved Micro-Genetic
Algorithm
報告內容：
一、 參加會議經過
2009年 IEEE模糊系統國際研討會研討會(2009 IEEE International Conference on
Fuzzy Systems) 於 98年 8月 20日至 8月 24日於韓國濟州島的「濟州島國際會議中
心」--ICC Jeju (International Convention Center, Jeju Island, Korea)舉行。這是 IEEE
Fuzzy Systems Society 每年一度針對模糊系統的理論與實作所舉辦之研討會，也是國
際學術界智慧型系統、模糊邏輯等領域非常受到重視的會議。本次會議的主要目的是
聚集世界各地大學、產業界、及研究單位從事有關模糊系統的專家學者於一堂，共同
切磋、貢獻與發表個人成就，並交換其在該領域的研究心得和最新知識，以吸引更多
的學者加入本領域的研究行列。與會人士來自世界各地；台灣學者長期投入該領域研
究，成果斐然，其曝光度逐漸受到重視，並已經由國立交通大學、成功大學與臺南大
學成功爭取該會議在 2011年於台灣台北舉辦。
本年度會議由 IEEE 為主要發起單位，並由 IEEE Computational Intelligence
Society、Korean Institute of Intelligent Systems Society贊助協辦單位。由韓國先進科技
研究院(Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, KAIST)、中央大學
(Chung-Ang University)、延世大學(Yonsei University)、西江大學(Sogang University)、
漢陽大學(Hanyang University)與日本、中國、新加坡等亞洲國家相關領域學者協助辦
理。會議共收到來自 37個國家共 485篇的論文，每篇論文均經由三位審查者獨立且
嚴謹的審查後共接受 383論文(含 302 oral 與 81 poster presentations)。為了使相關議
題能充份討論，共規劃了 63 個議題場次，3 個場次的獨立演講，與 10 場訓練課程
(tutorial)。獨立演講的主題與演講者均為國際知名學者：(1) Spatial Reasoning: From
Sketch-to-Text towards Text-to-Sketch (Prof. James Keller), (2) Statistics Powered
Conceptual Fuzzy Sets and Word Computing System (Prof. Tomohiro Takagi), and (3)
表 Y04
慧型代理人的結合等，均是目前相當熱門之主題。其中資料挖掘主要是從大型資料庫
中整理分析資料，以求出高階總結性之規則作為決策依據。此題目為目前資料庫及知
識庫的整合中非常熱門的一個研究方向，廣義而言，甚至可將機器學習領域納入。此
次會議發表的文章均是將傳統資料挖掘技術再做更深入的變化，以符合不同的需求。
而在機器學習部份，則包含加強式學習、模糊學習、神經網路式學習及資料群聚等文
章。
2. 模糊系統之應用：此部份較強調模糊系統的實際應用，包括了交通控制、錯
誤診斷、工業控制、醫藥系統、影像處理、機器視覺、財務及市場分析預測、語音處
理、環境監測、電力系統等，均為相當重要且常見的應用。部份筆者較感興趣的內容
為系統控制：系統控制為目前人機整合中相當重要的一個關鍵研究領域。
3. 其他相關技術：網際網路技術與應用 -- 此部份主要是探討如何有效地促進網
際網路之效能及增廣其應用，並能有效地搜尋網際網路的資料，這對於網際網路發達
的今日資訊社會相當的重要。此部份的文章包括了遠距教學、Internet 及 Intranet 之
整合、網頁搜尋技術、合作式系統對於網際技術之應用，網站瀏覽技術、模糊理論應
用於網站上及相關實際系統應用等。人機介面 -- 此部份主要是在探討人與機械之間
的相互影響及系統的建構，包括了人機間合作技術、人與電腦之間的關係探討及人機
介面之設計。
三、 建議
1. 此次承蒙國科會工程處計劃補助，方得成行，在此先致上十二萬分的謝意，也希
望爾後國科會及教育部對於參加國際知名會議之學者均能大力支持。
2. 國內有不少研究此方面的學者，每年都會在相關的國際或國內研討會看到國內學
者的投稿和參與，增加國內外學者互相切磋交流的機會，甚至彼此合作，這是相
當可喜的現象。
3. 建議鼓勵研究生多參與此類國際會議，除了開拓國際視野，增長見聞，熟悉各國
文化，實用英文的大好機會。在學術方面，直接與外國學者接觸，接受提問，傾
聽建議，都能夠提升學生面對外國人的反映和能耐，應鼓勵學生參與，並且適當
提供補助，激勵學生藉此為目標，主動增加自我實力，提高個人競爭力，間接提
高國家人才的培養，以及學術研究實力。但經費部分，僅補助主持人出席國際研
討會費用，未來若能增加補助研究助理的出席國際會議項目，獲得的正面效果更
能落實培養優秀學生的機會。
4. 模糊邏輯已經是一種逐漸成熟的技術，其應用廣泛。但在跨領域技術的整合，還
需要廣徵各方智慧。國內研究應可以朝此方向發展。
