the detailed research methods, results and 
discussion, and conclusions can be seen in the 
attached materials. 
英文關鍵詞： Wind turbine, Shrouded diffuser with flange, CFD, 
Wind tunnel test 
 
I 
 
目  錄 
 
一、 中文摘要…………………………………………………………………………  II 
二、 英文摘要…………………………………………………………………………  II 
三、 發表期刊 1………………………………………………………………………   1 
四、 發表期刊 2………………………………………………………………………   6 
五、 投稿期刊…………………………………………………………………………  13 
六、 專利 1…………………………………………………………………………….  17 
七、 專利 2…………………………………………………………………………….  18 
八、 其他資料:研討會論文、畢業論文……………………………………………. .  20 
九、 總結……………………………………………………………………………….  20 
  
- 1 - 
 
三、發表期刊 1
 
- 3 - 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
  
- 7 - 
 
 
- 9 - 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
五、投稿期刊 1 
Dear Professor Tzeng-Yuan, Your submission entitled "Experimental study on aerodynamics of micro-wind turbines with large-tip non-twisted blades" 
has been assigned the following manuscript number: 101-8-10B. (投稿於 Journal of Mechanics) 
Experimental study on aerodynamics of micro-wind turbines with large-tip non-twisted blades 
T. Y. Chen, C. W. Hung and Y. T. Liao 
Department of Aerospace Engineering 
Tamkang University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Abstract  
This research experimentally investigates the rotor aerodynamics of horizontal-axis, micro-wind turbines. Specifically, the aerodynamic characteristics of 
large-tip, non-twisted blades are studied. The study is conducted in a wind tunnel system to obtain the relations between the power coefficient (CP) and 
tip speed ratio (TSR), the torque coefficient (CT) and TSR. Effects of rotor position inside a flanged diffuser, rotor solidity and blade number on rotor 
performance are investigated. The blade cross-section is NACA4415 airfoil. The pitch angle of the blades is fixed at 30°, and the chord length ratio 
between the blade root and tip (Cr/Ct) is fixed at 0.3. Results show that larger power output is obtained when the rotor placed closer to the diffuser inlet. 
The 60%-solidity rotor, in general, achieves better power and torque outputs among the test rotor solidities. The higher the blade number is, the larger the 
power output is, but the difference is small. Comparisons between the present and previous relatively short-tip blades (Cr/Ct=0.5) show that the present 
blades have better power and torque outputs at lower rotor rotational speed. These results suggest that the large-tip blades are suitable for micro-wind 
turbine applications, and make rotor-generator matching more flexible.  
Keywords: horizontal-axis micro-wind turbine, large-tip blade, non-twisted blade, flanged diffuser, wind tunnel test 
 
1. Introduction 
Wind energy has become one of the fastest growing energy sources in the world due to the serious effects of global warming and rapid depletion of fossil 
fuel. Many factors play a role in the design of a horizontal-axis wind turbine (HAWT). Rotor aerodynamics plays a particularly important role in wind 
energy extraction, which has been the subject of much research. Duquette and Visser [1] examined the effect of rotor solidity and blade number on 
aerodynamic performance, revealing that the range of tip speed ratio for maximum CP (power coefficient) varies strongly with solidity and weakly with 
blade number. Higher than traditional solidities and blade numbers result in higher CP. Increasing the solidity from the conventional 5%-7% to 15%-25% 
yields higher CP,max. Lanzafame and Messina [2] studied the performance of a double-pitch wind turbine with non-twisted blades. The wind turbine they 
designed can effectively increase rotor power output compared with the traditional non-twisted blade rotor.  
Wind power generation is proportional to the cube of the wind speed. A large increase in power output can be achieved with a slight increase in the 
velocity of the approaching wind to a wind turbine. Diffuser augmented wind turbines (DAWT) were a hot topic since the 1979 Wind Energy Innovative 
Systems Conference. The diffuser or flanged diffuser generates separation regions behind it, where low-pressure regions appear to draw more wind 
through the rotors compared to a bare wind turbine. Van Bussel’s study [3] shows that the power augmentation is proportional to the mass flow generated 
at the nozzle of the DAWT. Such mass flow augmentation can be achieved through two basic principles: increase in the diffuser exit ratio and/or by 
decreasing the negative back pressure at the exit. Matsushima et al. [4] studied the effect the diffuser’s shape had on wind speed. Results show that the 
wind speed in diffuser is greatly influenced by the length and expansion angle of the diffuser, and maximum wind speed increases 1.7 times with 
appropriate diffuser shape. Ohya et al. [5] examined the optimal form of the flanged diffuser, and demonstrated that power augmentation by a factor of 
about four to five, compared to a bare wind turbine.  
Though the diffusers are able to augment the power output, the economic application of diffusers seemed not feasible because of the high costs of the 
configuration [3]. In addition, the field tests conducted by Matsushima et al. [4] showed when the wind direction changes frequently, the diffuser may not 
make effective use of wind energy. The current research is to develop a micro, horizontal-axis wind turbine for moving vehicles. When applying a wind 
turbine in vehicles, the rotor diameter must be small for installation and drag considerations. The wind turbine can be installed in right positions to avoid 
or minimize additional aerodynamic drag [6-7]. Also, a moving vehicle can easily induce high-speed and more stable wind than natural wind. Thus, the 
DAWT is very suitable for moving vehicle applications either from economic or wind-source consideration.  
The authors [8] studied the flanged diffuser’s effects on rotor aerodynamics of a micro-wind turbine (30 cm rotor diameter) with the blades of Cr/Ct=0.5, 
where Cr and Ct are the blade root and tip chord lengths, respectively. Results show that the rotor has the characteristics of low torque, high rotor 
rotational speed, and high rotor solidity for maximum power output compared to a conventional large wind turbine. Also, the flanged diffuser 
significantly increases the power output, torque output, and rotor-rotation speed of the wind turbine, largely depending on rotor solidity and wind speed. 
In rotor design of micro-wind turbines, it is important to have turbine blades generating torque as large as possible. Also, micro-wind turbine blades are 
often manufactured with no twist for ease of construction. This research investigates the rotor aerodynamics of large-tip, non-twisted blades. It is hoped 
to improve the low torque output and high rotor-rotation speed of the previous relatively short-tip blade design [8]. The rotor with high torque would 
have a lower starting wind speed when coupled to the generator. 
 
2. Experimental setup and methods 
Figures 1 and 2 present a schematic and photograph of the wind tunnel system, and photographs of the primary experimental setup utilized in this study, 
respectively. A 9 m long, open-circuit wind tunnel was developed for the present study. The test section of the wind tunnel is 1.3 m high, 1.3 m wide and 
2.4 m long. A 60 hp blower was used to drive the airflow, with the maximum air speed 25 m/s in the test section. The flow turbulence intensity was less 
than 1%, and the flow uniformity was greater than 99%. 
Turbine blades were attached to a cone hub with a base diameter of 8 cm, which was connected to a measurement apparatus, including a torque sensor, a 
rotation-speed sensor, and a magnetic powder brake by Chain-Tail Co., LTD, Taiwan [9]. The torque sensor measures the torque range from 0 to 1 N-m 
with the uncertainty of 0.1%, the rotational-speed sensor measures the rotor speed up to 6000 rpm (revolution per minute) with the uncertainty of 1%. 
The magnetic particle brake utilizes electromagnetic powder to transmit torque, which simulates loadings on the rotor. When the voltage is applied to the 
brake, the torque is generated, which can be adjusted by the applied voltage. The measurement apparatus was placed on a support located in the middle 
of the tunnel test section. A pitot-static tube, placed 1 m upstream of the rotor (hub & blade), measured the total and static pressures of moving air by a 
digital pressure sensor. Local pressure, temperature and humidity were also measured to account for density variation during each run. The free-stream 
air velocities were calculated using Bernoulli’s equation. Repeatability tests indicate that the uncertainty due to the measurement system on rotor 
performances is less than 6%. 
The blade cross-sectional profile was NACA 4415 and the blades were non-twisted with pitch angle (β) of 30 o, where β is the angle between the blade 
chord line and rotor rotating plane. Micro-wind turbine blades are often manufactured with no twist for ease of construction. The 16-cm blades were 
inserted into the cone hub, resulting in the rotor diameter of 30 cm. The ratio between the root and tip chord lengths (Cr/Ct) is fixed to 0.3 for the test 
blades, which were tested to have a better rotor performance. Many blades were fabricated for the studies of blade-number and solidity effects on rotor 
aerodynamics. For example, the blades shown in Fig. 2(a) have tip and root chord lengths of 6.9 and 2.07 cm, respectively, and the rotor solidity is 60%. 
The solidity is defined as the ratio between the total blade area and the rotor swept area. Figure 2(b) shows the 50%-, 70%-solidity rotors and the 
- 15 - 
 
easily stalled after generating the largest power output. This result is possibly due to the large moment of inertia of the large blade tip. As a result, the 
present blades generate larger torque at lower rotational speed than the previous blades. Similar results were obtained for other test wind speeds.  
In summary, the present blades much improve the rotor aerodynamics of the previous blades, which have low torque output and high rotor-rotation speed. 
The rotor with high torque would have a lower starting wind speed when coupled to the generator, and make the rotor-generator matching more flexible. 
The large-tip blades should be suitable for micro-wind turbine applications.  
 
4. Conclusions 
The following conclusions can be drawn from this study: 
1. The closer the rotor placed to diffuser inlet is, the larger the rotor power output is.  
2. The optimum solidities for the present rotors are 60-70%. Results from the present study and literatures indicate that (i) the larger the rotor 
diameter is, the smaller the rotor solidity is to yield higher CP,max; (ii) The large-tip blades have a large rotor solidity to yield higher CP,max; (iii) the 
optimum solidity to achieve higher CP,max is related to wind speed. 
3. The CT,max is largely dependent on rotor solidity but less on wind speed. 
4. The large-tip blades have larger torque output and lower rotor-rotation speed than the short-tip blades, which should be suitable for micro-wind 
turbine applications.  
 
Acknowledgement 
This research was sponsored by the National Science Council of the Republic of China under contract NSC98-2221-E-032-042-MY3. 
 
References 
1. Duquette, M. M. and Visser, K. D, “ Numerical implications of solidity and blade number on rotor performance of horizontal-Axis wind turbines,” 
Journal of Solar Energy Engineering, 125,  pp. 425-432 (2003).  
2. Lanzafame, R. and Messina, M., “Design and performance of a double-pitch wind turbine with non-twisted blades,” Renewable energy , 34, pp. 
1413-1420 (2009).  
3. Van Bussel, G. J. W., “The Science of making more torque from wind: Diffuser experiments and theory revisited,” Journal of Physics: Conference 
Series 75, pp. 1-12 (2007). 
4. Matsushima, T., Takagi, S, and Muroyama, S., “Characteristics of a highly efficient propeller type small wind turbine with a diffuser,” Renewable 
Energy, 31, pp. 1343-1354 (2006).   
5. Ohya, Y., Karasudani, T., Sakurai, A., Abe, K. and Inoue, M., “Development of a shrouded wind turbine with a flanged diffuser,” Journal of Wind 
Engineering and Industrial Aerodynamics, 96, 524-539 (2008). 
6. Chen. T. Y., and Liao, Y. T., “Wind power generating module for use with electric scooter,” Japan Patent No. 3162839, Taiwan Patent No. M393442, 
2010. 
7. Chen. T. Y., and Liao, Y. T., “Wind power generating device for use with a vehicle,” Japan Patent No. 3162838, Taiwan Patent No. M390245, 2010. 
8. Chen, T. Y., Liao, Y. T. and Cheng, C. C., “Development of small wind turbines for moving vehicles: Effects of flanged diffusers on rotor 
performance,” Experimental Thermal and Fluid Science, 42, pp. 136-142 (2012). 
9. http://www.chaintail.com/ 
10. Chen, T. Y. and Liou, L. R., “Blockage corrections in wind tunnel tests of small horizontal-axis wind turbines,” Experimental Thermal and Fluid 
Science, 35, pp. 565-569 (2011). 
11.  http://science.howstuffworks.com/wind-power.htm 
12.  http://www.windtronics.co.uk/ 
 
 
Fig. 1: A schematic and the photograph of the wind tunnel system     Fig. 2(a) The measurement and rotor systems        Fig, 2(c) The flanged diffuser 
   
Fig. 2(b) 50%-, 70%-solidity rotors and 40%-solidity rotor in Ref. 9 (from left to right) 
- 17 - 
 
六、專利 1 
 
七、專利 2 
- 19 - 
 
 
八、其他資料 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具翼緣擴散外罩多葉片水平軸式小型風力發電機之研發
計畫主持人: 陳增源
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-032-042-MY3 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
