 1
中文摘要 
 
自動導引車 (Automated Guided Vehicle, AGV)是當今彈性製造系統 (Flexible 
Manufacturing System, FMS)和自動化倉儲系統中很重要的作業設施。在生產的流程中，
有效加工時間佔的比例通常不大，相對花費在運送、等待的時間則佔有相當大的比例。
因此，本研究針對生產系統中最常見的單迴圈(single loop)AGV 系統，在 AGV 車輛數為
1 台，加工機台為 2 台的條件下，以 ES (early start)為派遣法則(dispatching policy)，發展
出一以最小化生產週期，也就是最大化其有效產出(throughput)，的數學模式，並以基因
演算法(Genetic Algorithm, GA)來求解最小工件集合(Minimal Job Set, MJS)內之工件序列
(job sequence)。此外，並展出一混合整數規劃 (Mixed Integer Programming, MIP)，藉以
找出問題的最佳解及目標值下限，來驗證所提出的基因演算法是否有效。數值測試的結
果發現求解品質誤差範圍均在 1%內，而求解時間則在 1 分鐘內。 
 
關鍵詞：自動導引車、工件序列、基因演算法 
 
Abstract 
 
AGV (Automated Guided Vehicle) plays an important role for today’s manufacturing 
and warehousing systems. In a manufacturing process, the time actually spent on the 
machines is sometimes not very long; on the other hand, a significant portion of the whole 
process time is consumed for transporting and waiting. Therefore, this study considers a 
common single-loop AGV system and develops a mathematical model aiming to minimize 
the production cycle time (i.e., to maximize the production throughput), given the 
predetermined ES (Early Start) AGV dispatching policy. This study designs a genetic 
algorithm to determine the sequence for the jobs in an MJS (Minimal Job Set) so as to reduce 
the AGV cycle time. This study also develops a mixed integer programming (MIP) model, 
which can find the optimal solution of small-size problems. In addition, its linear program (LP) 
relaxation is found to be a very tight lower bound. In order to verify the effectiveness of the 
developed solution algorithm, a series of test problems are designed, and the result show that 
the solution generated by the heuristic algorithm is very close to the optimal solution, 
normally within 1% in terms of the objective function value, and the computation time is less 
than one minute. 
 
Keywords: Automated Guided Vehicle, Job Sequence, Genetic Algorithm 
 
一、前言 
在市場競爭愈形激烈的環境裡，企業皆致力於成本的降低、生產力的提高的方法；
而在諸多方法中，如何有效運用自動化生產設施便成為一門重要的課題。在自動化生產
系統上，是否能有效地把所需物料搬運至適當的地點存放或加工，對於系統之績效有很
大的影響。Han and McGinnis (1989)則指出工件完工所需的總時間，只有 5%花在製造
上，其它時間都浪費在工作的傳送或是存放於暫存區中。有鑒於此，如果能選擇一個適
 3
• Tσ：為工件序列 σ所對應的最小工件集合週期時間，在穩定的循環狀態時，其
等於 Tσ(1)σ(2)+Tσ(2)σ(3)+· · ·+Tσ(n)σ(1)。 
• Wqi：AGV 在機台 Mq 等待卸載工件 i 的時間。 
{ }∑
=
−
+ −=
n
i
i
i
iσ bwaT
1
)(
1
2)1( ,,max γσσ  (1) 
其中， { }{ }γσσσ ,,max,0max )(12)1()(2 iiiii bwabw −+ −−=  (2) 
)1()1( σσ aa n =+  (3) 
nww 2
0
2 =  (4) 
(1)為完成 MJS 所需的生產週期。(2)為 AGV 在 M2 等待卸載工件 i 的時間，公式中
有一個遞迴的關係，即需得知前一工件在 M2 的等待時間，才可得知下一工件在 M2 的
等待時間。(3)為工件在 M1 的加工時間，經過一週期後，第一個工件與第 n+1 個工件的
加工時間仍相同。(4)為 AGV 於 M2 欲卸下工件 n+j 時的等待時間，與第 j 個工件的等
待時間相同。 
 
四、研究方法 
此本研究提出一混合整數規劃模式(Mixed integer programming, MIP)，用於求解問題
的最佳解，之後再以基因演算法求解問題的近似解，比較演算法的求解品質與效率。所
使用的解題工具-Lingo8.0，用來驗證本研究演算法的求解品質是否良好，而程式的撰寫
則是使用 Matlab7.0。 
本研究係以基因演算法來求迅速搜尋的工件序列，並進而決定其工作週期。其中，
一個基因(gene) 代表一個工件，一條染色體代表一工件序列，而一條染色體則對應到一
個搜尋空間的解，也對應到一個目標值（AGV 週期時間）。本研究採用 Bean (1994)所
提出 Random keys 的概念來代表各工作生產順序以進行編碼，另有關基因演算法的運算
流程則如圖一所示。 
 
五、結果與討論 
為進行相關的數值試驗，本研究所設計的測試問題，以排程的表示方法為：AGV1，
lp2|k≧2，es| Ct，即 AGV1 台，加工機台 2 台，工件種類假設為 20 種；另外，n 設假介
於 20~100。工件在各機台的加工時間為已知條件，藉由均勻分佈的方式隨機產生 20 組
工件的加工時間，分別介於 30(min)~300(min)的數值。 
有關運算時間，表一整理 GA 演算法、MIP 及放鬆整數限制後的 LP 三者執行的結
果。當 n≦40 時，以 Lingo8.0 執行 MIP 模式、LP 及 GA，其求解時間均在 2 分鐘之內；
而當 n＞40 時，MIP 的求解時間在 24 小時內，無法求出結果，但 LP 仍可迅速求得結果，
而 GA 則在 2 分鐘內。 
有關誤差百分比，則就各測試問題執行 10 次運算中，分別計算最小值及平均值，
再計算 20 個測試問題之平均值，發現各個問題規模的平均誤差百分比在各種 MJS 大小
下，均落在 1%之內(誤差百分比 Error=100*(GA-LB)/LB)，如圖 2。 
 
 5
 
六、結論與建議 
本研究針對生產系統中最常見的單迴圈 AGV 系統，在 AGV 車輛數為 1 台，加工
機台為 2 台的條件下，以 ES 為派車法則，發展出一以最小化生產週期，也就是最大化
其有效產出為目標的數學模式。實務上，最小工件集合的數目均大於 50，因此本模式以
基因演算法來求解問題規模大小為 MJS 大達 100 時，找出其較佳(最佳)的工件序列。 
透過本研究的探討與分析，未來可以本研究為基礎，針對具有 AGV 服務之流線型
工廠，做更深入的探討與研究，其後續研究發展的部分，分別敘述如下： 
(1) 在相同的加工限制下，可將問題延伸至多台 AGV 及多台機台。 
(2) 將加工限制由 ES，改成 LS 或 NW，以比較不同的派工策略所造成的影響，如 AGV
的旅行時間、機台的利用率等。 
最後，本研究之主要成果亦為本系碩士班畢業生游展宗(民 97)之畢業論文，同時亦
已於國際會議 The 4th Sino-Japanese Optimization Meeting (August 27 - 31, 2008, Tainan, 
Taiwan)，以 Minimizing the Cycle Time of an AGV-served Flowshop Based on the Job 
Sequence Generated by a Generic Algorithm 為題發表。 
 
參考文獻 
Agnetis, A. ,Pacciarelli, D. and Rossi, F., “Lot scheduling in a two-machine cell with 
swapping devices”, IIE Transactions 28, 911 – 917, 1996. 
Bean, J.C.,“Genetics and random keys for sequencing and optimization,” ORSA Journal on 
Computing 6, 154-160, 1994. 
Ganesharajah, T., Hall, N.G. and Sriskandarajah, C., “Design and operational issues in 
AGV-served manufacturing systems”, Annals of Operations Research 76, 109 – 154, 
1998. 
Hall, N.G., Sriskandarajah, C. and Ganesharajah, T., “Operational decisions in AGV-served 
flowshop loops: Scheduling”. Annals of Operations Research 107, 161–188, 2001. 
Han, M.-H. and McGinnis, L.F, “Control of material handling transporter in automated 
manufacturing”, IIE Transactions 21, 184–190,1989. 
Kise, H., Shioyama, T. and Ibaraki, T., “Automated two-machine flowshop scheduling: A 
solvable case”, IIE Transactions 23, 10 –16, 1991. 
Papadimitriou, C. H. and Kanellakis, P. C., "Flowshop scheduling with limited temporary 
storage," Journal of Association for Computing Machinery 27, 553-549, 1980. 
游展宗，民 97 年，「以基因演算法產生工件序列來最小化自動導引車(AGV)之週期時
間」，國立交通大學，碩士論文。 
 
【計畫成果自評】 
本研究之內容與原計畫相符，已達成預期目標。本研究案中個人所指導碩士班學生游展
宗，依據本研究案成果所完成的碩士論文，已於國際會議發表。此外，研究計畫經費補
助出國會議所發表之論文，根據會議所得修正意見，改寫後已發表於期刊，資料如下
「HUANG, K.* and CHEN, Y. (2009), Locating Manufacturer Distribution Centers by a 
Modified Fixed-Charge Model: A Case Study of Kinmen Kaoliang Liquor Inc., 
Transportation Journal Vol. 48, Issue 3, p32-43 (SSCI).」。 
 2
modeling)相關的論文均安排於特定的 Sessions，並在 Conference Program 上特別以 m-(代
表 mathematical modeling)註記，讓對定量研究較有興趣的學者可以輕易地掌握相關論文
的時間與地點，是一項很好的會議安排。 
二、 本次會議主辦單位安排多個日本知名企業的參觀，包含 JFE Steel Corporation、Honda 
Motor Co. Ltd.、Mori Seiki Co. Ltd.、NTT Information Sharing Laboratory Group of NTT 
Corporation、Yokogawa Electric Corporation。此次，受於時間的限制，無法報名參加，
日後有參與其他國際會議也可將此行程納入考量。 
三、 個人認為國內之研究與許多國際間之研究，在水準上應無極大的差距，但與會者的簡報
技巧及溝通能力較為不足，尤其是英文能力普遍較無法應付國際會議的場合。解決之
道，可考慮先在國內透過課程或者 Workshop 來培養相關的能力。此外，多多參予國際
會議仍是提升能力的必要途徑。 
四、 目前有部份國際會議都會擇優將論文推薦至相關國際期刊，以 Special Issue 的方式在審
查後刊出，但前提都必須親自前往做口頭報告。建議有類似安排的國際會議能儘量予以
補助，對於學術論文的發表應該很有助益。 
 
（口頭發表之論文全文如下。） 
 
 4
the main island of Taiwan. Various quantitative methods have been used for locating DCs in the 
several case studies in different areas. For example, Ehrgott and Rau (1999) developed the general cost 
models for both cost and delivery time of a bi-criteria evaluation method to analyze the scenarios for 
improving the distribution network in Nordic countries of a chemical company. Nozick and Turnquist 
(2001) combined the fixed-charge model and the coverage model to consider transportation cost, 
inventory cost, and service level for locating the distribution centers of an auto manufacturing company 
in North America. Farahania and Asgari (2007) combined the MCDM (Multi Attribute Decision 
Making) model and the covering model to determine the DCs in the military logistics system. 
Based on the unique features of KKL, this study modified the classical fixed charge model to take 
into consideration the inbound and outbound transportation costs associated with the DCs as well as the 
variable and fixed components of the DC facility costs. This study collected the data from KKL to 
estimate the values of the associated parameters in the model. The result of the case study indicates that 
the total cost will be 110,786,400 TW dollars per year, and three DCs are to be established in Keelung, 
Changhua, and Kaohsiung in northern, central, southern Taiwan respectively. According to the 
sensitivity analysis, the changes in fixed cost and demand level are the most influential factors for 
locating the DCs. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 provides the background of the 
company in the case study. Section 3 introduces the mathematical formulation, a modified fixed 
charged model, as well as the approach and the result for estimating the parameters in the MIP model. 
Section 4 provides the numerical results from solving the MIP model. Section 5 presents the sensitivity 
analysis and the scenario evaluation. Finally, the findings of this study are summarized and conclusions 
are drawn in Section 6. 
 
CASE BACKGROUND 
Kinmen (also known as Quemoy in early Spanish Romanization), a small archipelago of several islands, 
is administered by Kinmen County Government, a local government of Taiwan (ROC). The location of 
Kinmen is shown in Figure 1. Kinmen is geographically very near Xiamen, China (PRC) and is 
separated from the main island of Taiwan (also known as Formosa in Portuguese and later simply 
referred to as Taiwan) by the Taiwan Strait, which in average is about 200 kilometers wide. Due to its 
unique natural environment and outstanding manufacturing technique, Kinmen has been famous for the 
production of kaoliang jiu, a strong distilled liquor made from fermented sorghum. 
 
 
 
Figure 1 – Geographic location of Kinmen (Quemoy) 
 
 6
should be taken into account in order to minimize the overall logistics cost. The model introduced in 
the next section is used to provide the decision support to balance the trade-off between transportation 
cost and facility cost. As for inventory cost, KKL, a strong player with overwhelming market share, 
usually does not maintain a high level of safety inventory, and inventory cost is thus not considered in 
the model. 
 
MATHEMATIC PROGRAMMING MODEL AND PARAMETER ESTIMATION 
Location analysis models have been studied for a long period of time. According to Daskin (1995), 
there are four common types of problem formulations: coverage problems, P-median problems, P-
center problems, and fixed charged facility location problems (later referred to as fixed charge models). 
For the models and the solution algorithms of location analysis, Mirchandani and Francis (1990) as 
well as Dresner (1995) also serve as an excellent source. 
Based on the background described in the previous section, this study chose the fixed-charge 
problem to model the decision problem. In the first subsection, the mathematical programming model 
is presented. In particular, the definitions of the parameters have been modified so as to apply the 
classical model originally for two-staged problems to deal with the case with four transportation links 
as illustrated in Figure 2. In the second subsection, the approach and result for estimating the 
parameters in the mathematical programming model is described. 
 
Mathematical programming model 
The fixed-charge model is usually used to determine the number and location of the facilities by taking 
both transportation cost and facility cost into consideration. The transportation cost is assumed to linear, 
and there is no economy of scale. On the other hand, facility cost can be site-dependent, but is a fixed 
constant. The mixed integer programming model and the typical definitions of the parameters and 
variables are as follows: 
 
Minimize ∑ ∑∑
∈ ∈ ∈
+
Ui Ui Vj
ijjijii YhcXf  (1) 
Subject to 
VjY
Ui
ij ∈∀=∑
∈
1  (2) 
 , VjUiXY iij ∈∈∀≤  (3) 
UibinaryX i ∈∀:  (4) 
VjUiYij ∈∈∀≥ ,0  (5) 
• i: index for potential facility sites (U is set of all potential sites.) 
• j: index for customers (V is set of all customers.) 
• fi: fixed cost of setting up a facility at potential site i 
• hj: amount of demand at customer j 
• cij: variable cost of serving customer j from a facility i 
• Xi: binary decision variable representing that potential site i is selected 
• Yij: variable representing the portion of demand at customer j served by a facility i 
 
The objective function (1) is to minimize the total cost by adding the facility cost determined by the 
facility decision (Xj) and the transportation cost determined by the assignment decision (Yij). Constraint 
(2) requires that the demand of each customer is fully served. In Constraint (3), the relation between the 
 8
Taiwan, and there is no capacity limit on the link. Similarly, once the pairing of the sea port in Taiwan 
and the potential facility site is pre-determined, the cost for the sea transportation (Link 2) is 
determined for each potential facility site i. Finally, the transportation cost between the plant of KKL 
and the Liaolo Harbor in Kinmen (Link 1) is actually a constant as a whole. This cost is thus can be 
attached to the assignment decision (Yij) and becomes part of the variable cost for a potential facility 
site i. 
The procedure of combining the transportation cost of all four links into the variable cost (cij) in the 
objective function (1) can be summarized as the following. Especially, this study assumed that the 
transportation cost for all links are linear with respect to distance and the cost can be derived by 
multiplying the distance by the given per-kilometer freight rate. Suppose the plant of KKL is indexed 
by k, the Liaolo Harbor in Kinmen is indexed by l, and the three sea ports in Taiwan are indexed by m. 
The transportation costs of all four links originally should be computed as (6). However, since there is 
only one plant (k=1) and one seaport (l=1) in Kinmen, and the potential facility site i has been paired 
with the seaport in Taiwan m, the relation (6) is reduced to the relation (7). Therefore, the 
transportation cost can further be merged with the variable facility cost to generate the variable term (cij) 
in the objective function (1) as shown in the relation (8). Then, cij should not be interpreted as the 
variable (transportation) cost for the case of a two-echelon system in a classical way; instead, it refers 
to the variable cost related to the assignment (flow or process volume) decision (Yij) and can be thought 
as the cost for shipping one unit of products from the plant in Kinmen via the DC i (though a specific 
sea port) to the customer j. 
 
44332211
ijijmimilmlmklkl drdrdrdr +++  (6) 
where npqr  is the per-km freight rate for link n from p to q, and 
n
pqd  is a similar definition for distance. 
44332211
ijijiiii drdrdrdr +++  (7) 
iijijiiiiij gdrdrdrdrc ++++= )( 44332211  (8) 
 
Model settings and parameter estimation 
The estimation of the parameters in the model (1) to (8) as well as the set of the potential facility sites 
and the information about the customer set are determined based on several intensive meetings and 
communications with the staff of KKL. However, in order to protect the sensitive commercial data of 
KKL, the numbers in this subsection are intentionally adjusted to some extent. Nonetheless, the essence 
of this case study is still preserved, and the results presented in the next section are informative from 
the application point of view. 
The set of the potential facility sites (U) consists of 25 industry parks around Taiwan. In general, 
one site is selected for each county or city (county-level or above), and one extra is included for those 
geographically large. 
As for the set of the customers (V), 30 demand nodes are considered including the major wholesalers 
of KKL and its branch companies. In terms of the amount of demand for each demand node (hj), an 
overall volume of 20 million liters per year are allocated to each demand node according to its 
historical sales data. In particular, some of the demand nodes are mega-wholesalers to KKL, whose 
allocated volume can be greater than 1 million liters. 
There are two categories for the facility cost. For the fixed part (fi), it is assumed that setting up a 
DC involves a cost of 3 million TW dollars per year. Regarding the variable facility cost (gi), it is 
broken into the following sub-categories: 
 10
Selected DCs
Keelung DC
Kaohsiung DC 
Changhua DC
Customers 
3. Transportation cost vs. Facility cost: The sum of the transportation cost for all four links is 
84,395,530 TW dollars. The unit transportation cost is in average 4.2 TW dollars per liter, and 
the cost ratio of sea transportation to land transportation is about 5:6. As for the facility cost, the 
sum of all cost components is 26,390,870 TW dollars. The shares of transportation cost and 
facility cost with respect to the total cost are 76% and 24% respectively. 
 
 
Figure 4 – Selection of DC sites and assignment between DCs and demand nodes 
 
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS AND SCENARIO EVALUATION 
To ensure the reliability and robustness of the decisions suggested by the mathematical programming 
model, a sensitivity analysis is conducted with respect to the factors that are potentially influential to 
the results. In addition, in order to generate more managerial insights, the MIP model is applied to 
different scenarios. 
 
Sensitivity analysis 
Three factors are considered in the sensitivity analysis: the fixed facility cost, the overall demand level, 
and the cost difference between the DC inbound and outbound transportation cost. 
 12
DC at Taichung is adjacent to the heavily populated Taichung metropolitan. The increase of the 
demand makes it feasible to pay for the fixed cost for another DC by being compensated by the 
reduction of the DC outbound transportation cost. 
3. Cost difference between DC inbound and outbound transportation: The base rate for the land 
transportation is assumed to be 0.035(1-a) and 0.035(1+a) NT dollars per km for DC inbound 
and outbound transportation links to reflect the natures of the shipments into and out of the DCs. 
The value of the parameter a is initially set as 10%. The value of a is adjusted from 0 to 30% to 
test its effect. It is found that the decision regarding the number and location of the DCs remains 
unchanged, though the total cost is changed slightly (within 2%). 
 
Scenario evaluation 
Before the study, KKL initially considered setting up only one DC in Taiwan so as to minimize the 
administrative complexity. The best location for this single DC can be determined by the MIP model (1) 
to (5) plus one extra constraint of limiting the sum of the binary decision variables (Xi’s) to be 1. It is 
found the best location is Changhua in central Taiwan, and the total logistics is increased from 
110,786,400 to 165,786,400 TW dollars, an almost 50% increase when compared to that of the optimal 
solution. Therefore, KKL’s initial thought may be preferable from the administration point of view, but 
the extremely high transportation cost incurred makes the idea not viable. 
In general, the customers of KKL are quite stable over time, as most of the wholesalers have been in 
the business for a long period of time. However, it is possible that the wholesalers may relocate their 
warehouses. Besides, the possibility of more new comers for this business cannot be ruled out. As the 
liquor consumption is closely related to population, the set of demand nodes and the amount of the 
associated demand are adjusted. The annual demand of 20,000,000 liters is re-allocated to 17 
hypothetical demand nodes, which are the location of the local governments. In addition, the amount of 
demand for each node is set to be proportional to the population in the area. The results shows there are 
still three DCs to be established (one in northern, central, and southern Taiwan respectively). However, 
the DC in central Taiwan is moved from Changhua to Taichung, where the population and then the 
demand are higher. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
Located on an island apart from the main island of Taiwan, KKL sells over 90% of its produced liquor 
domestically. In 2007, KKL’s revenue has reached 11.2 billion TW dollars. In order to raise its profit 
margin and provide better service, KKL has been retrieving the amounts of sales from the agents and is 
planning to establish the distribution centers in Taiwan. 
This study aims to provide the decision support, especially from a quantitative aspect, for KKL’s 
strategic plan for establishing the DCs in Taiwan. The classical fixed charge model is modified to take 
into consideration the inbound and outbound transportation costs associated with the DCs as well as the 
variable and fixed components of the DC facility costs. This study collects and estimates the values of 
the associated parameters in the model. The results indicate that the total cost is 110,786,400 TW 
dollars per year, and three DCs are to be established in Keelung, Changhua, and Kaohsiung in northern, 
central, southern Taiwan respectively. The sum of the transportation cost for all four links is 
84,395,530 TW dollars, making the unit transportation cost to be 4.2 TW dollars per liter. The total 
facility cost is 26,390,870 TW dollars, and the ratio of transportation cost to facility cost is about 76% 
to 24%. 
The sensitivity analysis is performed with respect to three factors. The result shows that the changes 
in fixed cost and demand level are the most influential factors for locating the DCs. If the fixed cost is 
reduced from 3,000,000 to 1,000,000 NT dollars, the number of the DCs is increased from three to four. 
 14
Ulstein, N.L., Christiansen, M., and Gronhaug, R. (2006) “Elkem uses optimization in redesigning its supply chain,” 
Interfaces, Vol. 36, pp. 314–325. 
 1
附件一：出席國際會議研究心得報告 
計畫編號：97-2221-E-009-122- 
計畫名稱：以改良式基因演算法求解最小化的自動導引車系統週期時間 
會議名稱：The 3rd World Conference on Production and Operations Management (POM Tokyo 2008) 
會議概況：本世界性會議是由生產與作業管理(Production and Operations Management, POM)領域
的三個區域國際組織合辦，分別是北美的 POMS (Production and Operations Management 
Society)、歐洲的 EurOMA (European Operations Management Association)和日本的 JOMSA 
(Japanese Operations Management and Strategy Association)。過去分別於西班牙的 Seville (2000)和
墨西哥的 Cancun (2004)舉辦過第一、二屆會議，本次則是在日本的 Tokyo舉辦第三次會議，是
POM 領域重要的國際會議之一。本會議歷次舉辦均吸引相當多各國研究人員參與，是一個國際
參與(International Participation)極高的會議。本次有 44國 414位人員參與，亞洲的與會人員約有
150位（包含主辦國日本 65位）。 
目的：參與會議的主要目的在希望藉由論文之發表，和與會者討論，能夠獲得回饋意見及改進
方向，使得本篇論文能更加完善，以利後續研究工作之延伸。同時，另外也希望經由與各國學
者的交流和討論，獲取不同運輸領域的新知識。此外，本次口頭發表之論文，除將收錄在會議
論文集外，也獲得評審的建議，於會後投稿國際期刊。目前有部份國際會議都會擇優將論文推
薦至相關國際期刊，以Special Issue的方式在審查後刊出，但前提都必須親自前往做口頭報告。 
過程：於2008年8月4日撘乘中華航空公司CI 101班機由台灣桃園機場抵達日本東京成田機場，8
月5日赴學習院大學(Gakushuin University)會場參加研討會並口頭發表論文（包含會議Section 
Chair主持）， 8月6日在參加研討會後，撘乘中華航空公司CI018班機由日本東京成田機場返回
台灣桃園機場。 
會議心得與建議：個人所發表之論文 (Location Analysis of Distribution Centers: A Case Study of 
Kinmen Kaoliang Liquor Inc.)是以本國金酒公司為個案的物流中心區位分析研究，同一 Section
另有泰國學者執行該國國家計畫所進行之「泰國橡膠工業出口中國之物流中心規劃案」
(Determination of Distribution Center Locations for Thai Rubber in China)。兩篇個案研究論文同場
進行發表與研討，有許多相似與相異的觀點可以加以比較，同場參與者的討論相當熱烈，收穫
也相當豐碩。有關基於參與此次會議之心得所產生的建議包含以下幾項： 
一、 由於各個管理領域的研究課題與研究工具相異，主辦單位對於會議各個主題與分節
(tracks and sections)的安排也必須煞費苦心。本次的會議，特別將數學模式(mathematical 
 3
LOCATION ANALYSIS OF DISTRIBUTION CENTERS: A CASE STUDY OF 
KINMEN KAOLIANG LIQUOR INC. 
 
Kuancheng Huang a and Ying-Hsuann Chen b 
 
 
a Department of Transportation Technology and Management, National Chiao Tung University 
1001 Ta Hsuen Road, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan 
 
 
b Epistar Corporation 
5 Li Hsin 5th Rd., Science-based Industrial Park, Hsinchu, 300, Taiwan  
 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Kinmen Kaoliang Liquor Inc. (KKL), once a non-profit government monopoly, was corporatized in 
1998. Cost reduction and profit maximization became a crucial goal. Located on an island apart from 
the main island of Taiwan, KKL sells over 90% of its produced liquor domestically. In order to re-
structure its distribution system, KKL is planning to establish the distribution centers (DCs) in the main 
island of Taiwan. This study aims to provide the decision support from a quantitative aspect for KKL’s 
strategic plan. The classical fixed charge model is modified to take into consideration the inbound and 
outbound transportation costs of the DCs as well as the variable and fixed components of the DC 
facility costs. This study collects and estimates the related parameters in the model. The results indicate 
that the total cost will be 110,786,400 TW dollars per year, and three DCs are to be established. 
 
Keywords: distribution centers, location analysis, fixed charge model 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Kinmen Kaoliang Liquor Inc. (KKL), once a non-profit government monopoly, was corporatized in 
1998. Cost reduction and profit maximization became a crucial goal after the reform. Located on an 
island apart from the main island of Taiwan, KKL sells over 90% of its produced liquor domestically. 
There exist two major distributing channels: branch companies and sales agents. KKL manages the 
logistics operations through outsourced logistics services for the liquor sold by its branch companies. 
For the other channel, the sales agents take care of the whole logistics operations from the factory in 
Kinmen. Sales agents help to simplify the operations, but at the same time KKL suffers from several 
drawbacks, such as the reduction in profit margin and the rise of potential competitors. KKL has been 
retrieving the amounts of sales from the agents and is planning to establish the distribution centers 
(DCs) in charge of the logistics operations and trade transactions in the main island of Taiwan. These 
DCs may be the forerunner of the marketing company that KKL plans to invest for the next stage. 
Although operations research techniques have been widely applied by the enterprises to design or 
re-structure its supply chain system (e.g., Laval et al., 2005 and Ulstein et al., 2006), the decision for 
locating DCs in most local companies is made mainly from a qualitative aspect. Thus, this study aims 
to provide the decision support by a quantitative approach for KKL’s strategic plan to establish the DCs 
 5
Link 1 
KKL’s 
Plant 
Liaolo 
Harbor  
Kaohsiung, 
Keelung, or 
Taichung Harbor Link 2 
Potential 
DC Sites Link 3 
Wholesalers
Link 4 
Kinmen Taiwan Taiwan Strait 
The first distillery of KKL was established in 1952 and was re-named as Kinmen Distillery in 1956. 
Once a government monopoly, Kinmen Distillery was corporatized and became Kinmen Kaoliang 
Liquor Inc. in 1998. The sales of liquor of KKL have been growing steadily. The revenue exceeded the 
milestone of 10 billion TW dollars in 2006 and reached 11.2 billion TW dollars (about 368 million US 
dollars) in 2007. Over 90% of the revenue comes from the domestic sales in Taiwan, though KKL has 
begun to pay more attention to foreign markets such as China and some other countries. 
Focusing on its core competence of liquor production, KKL traditionally has been relying on the 
sales agents to expand its market and simplify its operation, though it also maintains its own 
distribution channels and branch companies in Taiwan. However, a sales agent may become a 
competitor at the end of the agency contract if it turns o another liquor maker. Besides, the profit 
margin for the sales made though the agents tends to be low. Therefore, KKL has been retrieving the 
amounts of sales from the agents. As the nearly perfect quality of the kaoliang jiu produced by KKL 
heavily depends on the unique environment in Kinmen, it is unwise to move the production facility to 
any other place. KKL is thus planning to establish its own distribution centers in Taiwan to facilitate 
the distribution, to reduce the logistics cost, and to improve customer service. 
Due to the geographical location, the delivery between the plant of KKL in Kinmen and the 
wholesales or distributors in Taiwan involves several transportation links with multiple modes. The 
transportation network after the establishment of the DCs is illustrated in Figure 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 – Transportation links between KKL’s plant in Kinmen and demand nodes in Taiwan 
 
The finished product is first transported from KKL’s plant in Kinmen to the Liaolo Harbor (Link 1), 
the only port with sea transportation service to Taiwan. KKL owns and operates a private fleet of trucks 
for carrying raw material as well as finished products. Thus, this transportation link is well-controlled, 
and the associated cost is relatively insignificant. As for the sea transportation between Kinmen and 
Taiwan (Link 2), several carriers are offering scheduled services between Liaolo to the three major sea 
ports in Taiwan, Kaohsiung, Keelung, or Taichung. Though with the shortest distance, the service to 
Taichung in central Taiwan is generally the least frequent and the most expensive. The space may be 
limited or even unavailable during the hot season, and the sea transportation service is by nature 
relatively unreliable due to weather conditions. These factors make this link the most troublesome in 
term of the whole logistics operation. At present, for the products distributed by KKL, the shipments 
are sent directly to the wholesalers from the ports by trucks. KKL currently has the outsourcing 
contract with several trucking companies in Taiwan. In the future, the products will be sent to the DCs 
(Link 3) first to replenish the inventory. Once a wholesaler places an order, the shipment is formed and 
delivered from the DC to the wholesaler (Link 4). 
According to the arrangement of the transportation operations described above, the number and 
locations of the DC is critical in terms of the overall transportation cost. Nonetheless, facility cost 
 7
Total 
Facility Cost 
Process Volume
Fixed Facility 
Cost, fi 
Variable Facility 
Cost, gi 
Slope  
site selection decision and the assignment decision is ensured by forcing the assignment variable to be 
zero if the associated facility is not open. In Constraint (4), the site selection variable is specified as a 
binary variable. Finally, Constraint (5) describes that the assignment variable is a non-negative real 
number. 
For most cases, the facility cost is assumed to be a constant (fi), and is independent of the amount of 
demand served, though the capacity limit can be imposed by adding one more constraint. However, for 
KKL, the produced liquor is usually stored by block stacking, and several cost components about the 
facility are in fact highly related to the process volume of a DC. In Figure 3, the possible relation 
between the total facility cost and the process volume of a DC for KKL is shown. It is assumed that 
there are two cost categories about setting and operating a DC. First, the administration cost of a DC 
(IT systems such as ERP, WMS, or TMS as well as the communication equipment and service) is 
basically independent of the process volume. A fixed cost is incurred as long as a DC is set up. Second, 
owing to the characteristics of KKL, the cost related to land purchase and construction expenditure as 
well as the direct operating cost (the machinery such as forklifts and air conditioners, the wage for the 
on-site workers, and the utility expenses for electricity and water etc.) can be proportional the process 
volume. As shown in Figure 3, the fixed component of the facility is the intercept of the vertical axis 
(fi), and the variable component of the facility cost is the slope of the straight line (gi). fi is simply the 
fixed charge in the objective function (1). On the other hand, based on the technique provided in Ghiani 
et al. (2004), gi can be incorporated into the variable cost, cij, in the objective function (1) as described 
in the following paragraphs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 – Fixed and variable components of the facility cost at a DC 
 
The variable cost in the objective function (1) is traditionally used (e.g., Daskin, 1995) to represent 
the transportation cost between the facility and the demand nodes, i.e., Link 4 in Figure 2. Therefore, 
the fixed-charge model is usually applicable only to the case of a two-echelon system. However, based 
on several assumptions, this study incorporated the transportation cost of all four links into the variable 
term in the objective function. For each potential facility site i, the inbound transportation cost (Link 3) 
can be merged with the outbound transportation cost (Link 4), if site i is always accessed through the 
sea port with the least inbound transportation cost. This arrangement is in fact the reality for the 
practice of KKL. Besides, it doest not affect the optimality of the overall MIP model if the freight rate 
is linear (i.e., no scale of economy) for the link between the sea port in Kinmen and the sea port in 
 9
1. Land purchase: It is estimated that 0.0005m2 is required in average for handling one liter of liquor 
based on block stacking storage. In addition, the land price is based on the information provided 
by the Department of Land Administration, Minister of the Interior, Taiwan (DLA-MOI, 2007) 
for each of the industry park considered as a potential site. 
2. Construction expenditure: It is estimated as 0.29 TW dollars per liter per year. This is in fact 
independent of the potential sites. Thus, it is not affected by the decisions and a constant in term 
of the total cost in the objective function (1). 
3. Directing operating cost: It is estimated as 0.35 TW dollars per liter per year. It is also not 
affected by the decisions and a constant in term of the total cost in the objective function (1). 
There are four transportation links as shown in Figure 2. For land transportation, the delivery of all 
three links (Link 1, Link 3 and Link 4) is assumed to be done by trucks, either privately owned or 
outsourced. On the other hand, the sea transportation relies on the scheduled-service carriers. 
1. Sea transportation: There are three routes between Liaolo Harbor in Kinmen and the sea ports 
near Keelung, Taichung, and Kaohsiung in Taiwan. The cost per liter (ri2di2) ranges from 2.0 to 
2.5 TW dollars. 
2. Land transportation: The base rate (ri3 and rij4) is set as 0.035 TW dollars per liter per km. 
However, it is adjusted by a factor of a=10% to reflect the possible rate difference between DC 
inbound and outbound shipments. For the DC inbound transportation (Link 3), the contract 
trucking companies are likely to reduce the rate as the replenishment from the plant in Kinmen to 
an DC is usually scheduled in advance, and the shipment size is large. Thus, the value of 0.035(1-
a) is used. On the other hand, for the DC outbound transportation (Link 4), the charge tends to be 
higher, as the shipment initiated by a customer’s order is relatively uncertain, and the shipment 
size is small. Thus, the value of 0.035(1+a) is used. 
 
RESULTS OF THE MIP MODEL 
The MIP model (1) to (5) is solved by the optimization software package LINGO 8.0. The numerical 
results and their implications are summarized as the followings. 
Regarding the site selection, the number of DCs to be set up is three. They are near Keelung, 
Changhua, and Kaohsiung in northern, central, southern Taiwan respectively. The locations of the three 
DCs as well as the assignment of the demand nodes to the DCs are shown in Figure 4. 
It is noteworthy that one DC is set up to serve the demand nodes that appear to be clustered. 
However, the exact location of the DC is not at the center of gravity as most location models might 
suggest. In stead, it is relatively close to the sea port, as the DC inbound transportation cost is included 
in the model as in (8). 
Based on the site selection for DCs and the assignment of the demand nodes to the DCs shown in 
Figure 4, the results and the cost analysis from various aspects are summarized as follows: 
1. Total cost: The objective function value of (1) is 110,786,400 TW dollars. 
2. Fixed cost vs. Variable cost: As three DCs are set up, the fixed-cost component in the objective 
function (1) is 9,000,000 TW dollars, and the variable cost component is then 101,786,400 TW 
dollars. However, the transportation cost from KKL’s plant to Liaolo Harbor in Kinmen (Link 1) 
is a constant, and two sub-categories of the variable facility cost (the construction expenditure 
and the direct operating cost) are site-independent and thus constants as well. The sum of these 
constant cost terms is 20,950,000 TW dollars. If they are removed from the MIP model, the ratio 
of the fixed cost component to the variable cost component in the objective function turns out to 
be 1:9, which is the true trade-off the MIP model tries to find the balance. It appears that both 
components are significant, and the relative importance is furthered examined in the sensitivity 
analysis in the next section. 
 11
Taichung DC 
Taichung DC
Customers 
Changhua DC
1. Fixed facility cost: The fixed facility cost, i.e., fi in the objective function (1), covers the cost 
items involved in setting up a DC and is independent of the capacity. The most important item is 
the IT system and the communication equipment. The implication of varying the value of fi is to 
adjust the class of these hardware and software systems. Meanwhile, it can also be viewed as 
raising the level of safety inventory (Nozick and Turnquist, 1998). It is found that if fi is reduced 
from 3,000,000 to 1,000,000 TW dollars, the number of DCs is increased to four. In addition to 
the three DC previously set up in northern, central, and southern Taiwan (Keelung, Changhua, 
and Kaohsiung), one more is to be established in Taichung, also in central Taiwan. The split of 
the demand nodes in central Taiwan as well as the exact location of the fourth DC are illustrated 
in Figure 5. On the other hand, if fi is increased to 5,000,000 TW dollars, the decision for locating 
DCs remains unchanged. However, if fi is further increased to 10,000,000 TW dollars, the DC in 
southern Taiwan (Kaohsiung) is dropped, and the customers are assigned to the DC in central 
Taiwan (Changhua). Nonetheless, even though only two DCs are set up, the logistics cost per 
liter is only increased slightly. The total cost is increased to 127,819,600 TW dollars (a 15% 
increase when compared to the based case), and the ratio of the fixed cost to the variable cost 
becomes 2:8, a result due to the adjustment made by the model. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 – The fourth DC due to the reduction of fixed cost or the increase of demand 
 
2. Overall demand level: The demand parameter for each demand node (hj) is estimated by 
assuming the overall annual demand of 20,000,000 liters. However, for the past several decades, 
the sales of KKL have been growing steadily. In order to understand how KKL should re-act to 
the possible demand increase, the overall demand level is increased gradually to test the MIP 
model. It is found that once the overall demand is higher than 30,000,000 liters, one more DC 
should be set up, and the location of the fourth DC is also at Taichung, as the one shown in 
Figure 5. The original DC at Changhua is close to the sea port in central Taiwan. However, the 
 13
One more DC will be established at Taichung in central Taiwan. On the other hand, if the fixed cost is 
creased to 10,000,000 TW dollars, the DC in southern Taiwan (Kaohsiung) is dropped, and the 
customers are assigned to the DC in central Taiwan (Changhua). 
In the scenario evaluation, it is found that KKL’s initial thought of setting up only one DC in 
Taiwan is not economically feasible, thought the administrative complexity can be significantly 
reduced. The total logistics is increased from 110,786,400 to 165,786,400 TW dollars, an almost 50% 
increase. In the second scenario, instead of being distributed according to the locations of the current 
wholesalers, the overall demand is re-allocated according to the population in the counties and cities. It 
is found the optimal decision for locating the DCs appears to be not very sensitive to the demand 
distribution, as the locations of the DCs are only slightly changed. 
The number of binary variables in the MIP of (1) to (5) is not many, and the optimal solution can be 
solved easily. However, this formulation relies on several assumptions and simplifications, which leads 
to the direction of future research for this case study. First, transportation cost is assumed to be linear, 
and the freight transportation is independent of volume. However, it is common that transportation 
exhibits significant scale of economy. The decision for locating the DCs should be re-examined if the 
cost curves of the transportation links are concave. Second, at this moment, inventory cost is not 
considered in the model, as KKL does not maintain a high level of safety inventory due to its superior 
market power. However, the business environment changes rapidly, and KKL may need to raise its 
safety inventory and the customer service level in the future. The decisions for locating the DCs should 
also take inventory into consideration. 
 
REFERENCES 
Daskin, M.S. (1995), Network and Discrete Location: Models, Algorithms, and Applications, John Wiley and Sons, New 
York. 
 
DLA-MOI (2007), the Department of Land Administration, Minister of the Interior, Taiwan, 
http://www.land.moi.gov.tw/enhtml/index.asp 
 
Dresner, Z. (1995), Facility Location: A Survey of Applications and Methods, Springer, New York. 
 
Ehrgott, M. and Rau, A. (1999), “Bicriteria cost versus service analysis of a distribution network - A case study,” Journal of 
Multicriteria Decision Analysis, Vol. 8, pp. 256-267. 
 
Farahania, R.Z. and Asgari, N. (2007) “Combination of MCDM and covering techniques in a hierarchical model for facility 
location - A case study,” European Journal of Operational Research, Vol. 176, pp. 1839-1858. 
 
Ghiani, G., Laporte, G. and Musmanno, R. (2004), Introduction to Logistics Systems Planning and Control, John Wiley and 
Sons, West Sussex, England. 
 
Laval, C., Feyhl, M., and Kakouros, S. (2005) “Hewlett-Packard combined OR and expert knowledge to design its supply 
chains,” Interfaces, Vol. 35, pp. 238-246. 
 
Mirchandani, P.B. and Francis, R.L. (1990), Discrete Location Theory, John Wiley and Sons, New York. 
 
Nozick, L.K. and Turnquist, M.A. (1998) “Integrating inventory impacts into a fixed-charge model for locating distribution 
centers,” Transportation Research, Part E, Vol. 34, pp. 173-186. 
 
Nozick, L.K. and Turnquist, M.A. (2001) “Inventory, transportation, service quality and the location of distribution 
centers,” European Journal of Operational Research, Vol. 129, pp. 362-371. 
 
