the control points. Experimental results show that 
our models are efficient, flexible and capable of 
generating vivid turning locomotions for artificial 
fishes. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Fish locomotion models, artificial life, physics 
engine, animation 
 
skeleton for controlling the deformation of fish body is de-
scribed in Section 3. Three types of coordinate systems are
utilized in our models to designate the scene, fish motions
and fish body deformation. These coordinate systems are
also introduced in Section 3. Section 4 describes the al-
gorithms for creating turning trajectories and performing
turning motions. Experimental results are displayed and
discussed in Section 5. We conclusion this paper and sug-
gest future work in Section 6.
2. RELATED WORK
After millions years of evolution, fishes demonstrate great ef-
ficiency, flexibility, and maneuverability in swimming. They
out-perform any man-made underwater vehicles. Studying
fish motions is an interesting topic in bio-mechanics [4, 5,
7]. The textbook written by Videler supplies numerous re-
search results and discusses physical models for fish loco-
motions [11]. It is a useful resource for understanding the
bio-mechanics and basic patterns of fish swimming. Some re-
searchers focus their efforts on simulating fish locomotions.
In [10], Tu and Terzopoulus propose physical and intelli-
gence models for fish motions. Their methods are realistic
and flexible for mimicking fish behaviors. However, their
work did not present any models for fish turning motions.
In a virtual marine scene with complex setting, there are
hundreds or even thousands of marine lives and objects to
be rendered in each time step. In the paper of [12], Yu and
Terzopoulus applied a key frame method to speed up the
animation. They divide a swimming cycle of a fish into a
sequence of key frames and store the mesh of the fish model
of each frame at a preprocessing stage. In animating the
fish’s swimming, these key frames are linearly interpolated
to produce the required gestures. Thus no physical model
has to be solved for animating the fish and the computation
is sped-up. On some occasions, the key frame method may
be too slow to render fish locomotions in real time if too
many fishes present in the scene. A Level-of-Detail (LoD)
method will be beneficial in this case. In the paper of [1],
Frohlich proposed an LoD key frame method for simulat-
ing fish locomotions. In his method, a pyramid of meshes
is used to model a gesture. When fishes are father away
from the viewer, their gestures are modelled by using sim-
plified meshes. Detail meshes are used only to display fishes
that are closer to the viewer. Stephen et. al. proposed
an improved knowledge model for controlling fish behav-
iors[8]. They classify the fishes into different categories and
attribute various characters to fishes. For examples, some
fishes are preys and others are predators. The automation
of a virtual fish is modelled by using a finite state machine.
As the fish senses an external event, it changes its internal
state and carries out a feasible movement.
Few papers focus on turning motions of fishes. In the paper
of [6], a method for generating C-shape turns for a robotic
fish is proposed. In the work, the authors use a quadratic
curve to model the trajectory of a C-shape turn. The ra-
dius of the turn is computed from a physical model at the
run time.Four control points are located in the centerline
of the fish to bend the fish body during a turn movement.
Their method is improved by Hu et. al. in the paper of [3]
to cope with cruise-in-turning, decent and ascent swimming
patterns. The proposed models have been successfully im-
plemented in a robotic fish. In the PhD thesis of [9], fast
camera with laser beams are used to capture fish motions,
including some turning motions. Ting found that a turn mo-
tion can be divided into three stages. At the first stage, the
fish deforms its body into a C-shape. Its head and tail are
bent toward the direction of turn. At the second stage, the
tail moves back and create propulsion to move the fish body.
At the third stage, the fish keeps its body straight or undu-
lates its body to move forward. Ting’s observations inspire
our work. In our physical models, we also decompose a turn
into several key stages according to the fish’s gestures. How-
ever, we expand the model to cope with C-shape, S-shape
and L-shape turns.
3. FISH SKELETON AND TURNING MO-
TION PATTERNS
3.1 The skeleton of a fish
When swimming in water, a fish undulates its body and
produces a body wave to push its body forward [11]. The
fish also deform its body into various shapes to brake, burst
or turn. A skeleton is built inside the fish body to control the
deformation of the fish body. At first, the center line of the
fish body is computed. Then the fish body is divided into
sections. Control points are placed in the intersections of
the centerline and the sections. By connecting these control
points, the skeleton is created. Two extra control points are
added at the bases of the pectoral fins to control the motions
of pectoral fins. The skeleton of a fish model is shown in
Figure 1. In order to specify the rotational angle of each
body section, we establish a local coordinate system at each
control point. In a control point coordinate system CPCS,
the Yc axis points to the dorsal fin, the Zc axis orients to the
left side of the fish body, and the Xc axis is perpendicular to
the body section. The CPCS are displayed in Figure 1. As
the fish moves, the Xc and Zc axes of each control point are
rotated about the Yc axis such that the fish body is deformed
in each stroke.
In the proposed physical models, we regard the rotational
angles of the control points as the key information of each
gesture. Assume there are N control points and K key
frames are required in a turn, then K ∗N angles have to be
stored with the fish model. In the turn motion, linear inter-
polation is utilized to calculate the intermediate rotational
angles in each step such that the gestures can be reproduced.
3.2 Turning patterns
A fish can perform three types of turns: C-shape, L-shape
and S-shape turns. We decompose each turn motion into a
series of steps. The key gestures of these steps are produced
in the preprocessing stage. The rotational angles of the con-
trol points at each step are computed and stored along with
the fish model. In the run time, the gestures are reproduced
by rotating the body sections. The undulation of the fish is
simulated by animating the gestures sequentially.
Key steps and gestures of the three turns are presented in
Figure 2. In the part (a) of Figure 2, the key frames of the
C-shape turn are shown. In the first frame, the fish prepares
to turn. The fish body keeps straight. At the second step,
the fish bends its body and rotates its head toward the new
coast direction. At the third step, the fish tail is bent toward
Figure 2: Gestures of a fish in turning motions.
Figure 6: A C-shape turn of the artificial fish.
of the fish are produced by undulating the control skeleton.
Physical models are proposed to simulate the C-shape, L-
shape and S-shape turns of the fish. In the physical models,
a turning motion is decomposed into a series of basic mo-
tions. The gestures of the fish in the basic motions are gen-
erated by undulating the control skeleton. The trajectory of
a turn is generated by evaluating a cubic Bezier curve. The
shape, orientation, and speed of the turning movement are
adjusted by using the control polygon of the Bezier curve.
In the turn, the fish body is moving along the trajectory.
The fish head is rotated to align with the tangent of the tra-
jectory at each step. The fish tail is bent to the direction of
turn at first. Then the fish tail is gradually recovered from
the bending. As the turn progresses, the fish tail slightly
undulates to increase speed or keeps straight. Experimental
results show that our models are realistic and efficient for
simulating turning motions of fishes.
A fish can perform other unsteady swimming motions. For
example, the fish can brake quickly, burst in high speed and
swim descent and ascent. Simulating these movements are
also important for animating the behaviors of the fish. In
the future, more research efforts should focus on mimick-
ing these motions. A fish can also move slowly and grace-
fully by using its pectoral and dorsal fins. Slow motions
are often seen when the fish is searching food and wander-
ing. To achieve better visual effects in a marine life ani-
mation, the movements of fish fins and their effects on fish
motions should be considered. However, few research results
are known at present. Further studies on the kinematics and
morphologies of these slow motions are urgently needed.
7. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Figure 7: L-shape turning motion.
研討會名稱:CISIS 2012/IMIS 2012 
地點: 義大利，巴勒摩(Italy, Palermo) 
工作紀要: 
A. 發表論文一篇，論文題目:” Voice Quality Assessment and Visualization”. 
將與長庚醫院合作的”嗓音診療系統研究”計畫成果撰寫成一篇論文，發表於本次
CISIS 2012研討會的 IMIS 2012Workshop。 
B. 研討會主題: 生物醫學工程、電腦網路、虛擬實境、人機介面、居家照護等。 
心得: 
A. 我們所研發的嗓音診療系統確實可用，也能為國際所接受。 
B. 我們利用擴張實境(Augmented Reality)技術研製人機介面，可以推廣至其他醫
療復健上，如發音練習、肢體復健運動等。 
C. 歐盟投入相當多經費於居家照護(含老人照護)上，未來此研究項目將日趨重
要。但是，目前還缺乏整體性規劃，多數的研究計畫仍是以嘗試性質居多。 
D. 除了人機介面技術外，網路技術與資料探勘也是遠距醫療與居家照護種點，
未來與長庚醫院的合作案應加入此兩項重點。 
E. 未來的家庭網路應為分散式系統，每一項設備都有自己的智慧代理人
(Intelligent Agent)如同一小型即時作業系統(Real Time OS)管理資料收集、存放、
接收與其他網路功能。 
F. 雲端計算目前尚未有具體解可行的主體，也缺乏實際應用例子。但未來的願
景與商機十分龐大，尤其在社群網路(Social Network)上。 
結論： 
就整體的研究水準而言，CISIS 2012研討會並不如 IEEE Visualization年會，但是它的主體
廣泛且較有前瞻性，探討的問題也較實際，而非純技術性開發，對本人而言十分有啟發
性。另外，海洋大學在相關研究上，並不落後，甚至是領先；但我們的廣度不夠，缺乏
實際應用項目，跨領域合作有待加強，且研發方向已發表論文為主，可能較難產生具體
結果。 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：翁世光 計畫編號：100-2221-E-019-065- 
計畫名稱：魚類運動物理引擎的研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 100 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
