中文摘要 
關鍵字:氮化鎵, 光子晶體, 面射型雷射,. 
本計畫利用金屬有機氣相磊晶系統成長高品質之氮化鎵共振腔發光二極體結構包含多
層氮化鋁與氮化鎵的布拉格反射鏡並且製作光子晶體奈米結構於此樣品上，最後形成光子
晶體面射型雷射。此雷射使用的光子晶體週期為 234nm，具有較低的臨界操作電流密度為
2.7 mJ/cm
2。在高於臨界的電流密度注入下，此元件激發出單一波長的雷射約 401.8 nm，具
有半高寬約 0.16nm 以及很小的發散角。此雷射激發出的範圍包含整個光子晶體的區域約
50 μm。不同的雷射波段位於光子晶體週期形成的能帶邊緣，因此具有不同的雷射特性包
含在 k 空間中的 Г、M 及 K 點方向的雷射。此外，光子晶體面射型雷射具有較高的自發輻
射因子及特徵溫度分別為 5*10-3 及 148K。藉由設計不同週期的光子晶體結構(190 nm-300 
nm)，這些光子晶體雷射元件出射之雷射波長範圍可從 395 nm 調變到 425 nm。利用帄面波
展開法模擬其 TE 能帶圖與布拉格理論，本雷射結構所激發出的雷射波長所相對應之正規
化頻率正好相對於 TE 能帶圖三個能帶邊界(Γ1，K2，M3)，而從極化方向也可證實雷射模
態確實存在此三個能帶邊緣模態。此外，Γ1 模態的雷射臨界操作功率均小於 K2 與 M3 模
態，藉由二維耦合波模型所計算之雷射耦合係數，此結果可歸因於 Γ1 模態具有最大的雷射
耦合係數。另外，從變角度光激發光系統的量測中，我們得到雷射模態 Γ1，K2 及 M3 的雷
射出射角度，相對於垂直方向，分別為 0˚, 29˚及 59.5，˚其雷射發散角分別為 1.2˚, 2.5˚及 2.2。˚
由於氮化鎵垂直型共振腔面射型雷射與光子晶體面射型雷射具有許多優越的光學特性，我
們相信此結構可以應用在可見光及藍紫光雷射等高功率、小發散角及多用途之光電元件中。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Photonic crystal, composed of period structures by dielectric or metal materials, can provide 
multidirectional distributed feedback effects near the band-edges [1-5] which could be considered 
as good candidates for semiconductor lasers, having characteristics of perfect single mode 
emission over a large area, high output power, and surface emission with narrow divergence 
angle [6, 7]. These two dimensional (2D) photonic crystal surface emitting lasers (PCSELs) 
usually consist of a perfect PC lattice and the laser action would happen in those band edges in 
the photonic band diagram by satisfying the Bragg condition. The surface emission would occur 
when the vertical diffraction conditions are satisfied. Most of previous PCSELs operated at Γ1 
band-edge [8, 9]. In this report, the lasing wavelength emitted from GaN-based PC lasers with 
different lattice constants occurred at the calculated band-edges, showing different polarization 
angles indicated different lasing modes corresponding to Γ, K, and M Brillouin-zone boundaries 
[10-14]. Furthermore, the coupled-wave model in 2D hexagonal-lattice was applied to explain the 
discrepancy in threshold power by considering higher components of Bloch modes and the 
corresponding coupling coefficients. It was demonstrated that the lasing action within Г1 mode 
which had the lowest threshold power corresponded to the largest coupling coefficient. On the 
contrary, the highest threshold energy power occurring within M3 mode corresponded to the 
lowest coupling coefficient. The lasing characteristics at different band edge frequencies or high 
order lasing modes of GaN-based PCSELs with triangular lattice structures was measured by 
using the angular-solved μ-PL system. The measured photonic band diagram could map 
correspondingly to simulated photonic band structure in K-space and each of PC band-edge 
modes exhibits a different type of wave coupling mechanism according to the Bragg diffraction 
mechanism which caused specific lasing emission angles. 
 
EXPERIMENTS 
The GaN-based PCSEL structure shown schematically in Fig. 1(a) was grown by a 
metal-organic chemical vapor deposition system on a c-face 2’’-diameter sapphire. 
Trimethylindium, Trimethylgallium, Trimethylaluminum, and ammonia were used as the In, Ga, 
Al, and N sources, respectively. The 35-pairs quarter-wave GaN/AlN DBR grown on a 2 
µm-thick undoped GaN buffer layer was crack-free, and had a flat surface. Then, an active region 
grown atop the DBR typically composed of ten In0.2Ga0.8N quantum wells (QWs) (LW = 2.5 nm) 
with GaN barriers (LB = 7.5 nm), and was surrounded by a 560 nm-thick Si-doped n-type GaN 
and a 200 nm-thick Mg-doped p-type GaN layer.  
The as-grown sample was then first deposited with a hard mask consisting of a SiNx layer of 
200 nm by plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition, followed by a soft mask consisting of a 
which covers almost whole area of PC pattern with only one dominant lasing wavelength. The 
measured FWHM of laser emission divergence angle is smaller than 5°, indicating that the 
surface emission is almost normal to the PC surface. It’s interesting to note that the threshold 
power density of GaN-based 2D surface-emitting PC laser is in the same order of or even better 
than the threshold for GaN-based vertical-cavity surface emitting lasers (VCSELs) we 
demonstrated in 2007 [15]. Unlike the small emission spots observed in the GaN-based VCSELs, 
the large-area emission in PCSELs has great potential in applications required high power output 
operation. 
To understand the spontaneous coupling factor β of the GaN-based PCSELs, we further 
replotted the laser emission intensity versed pumping energy from Fig. 2 in logarithmic scale as 
shown in Fig. 4(a) and then calculated the difference between the heights of the emission 
intensities before and after the threshold, corresponding roughly to the value of β.  
The β value of our PC surface-emitting laser was estimated to be about 510-3. Interestingly, 
this value is smaller than the GaN-based vertical cavity surface emitting lasers [15], which could 
be due to the lower quality factor in this GaN-based PC structure. However, the β factor is still 
larger than the typical edge emitting lasers (normally about 10
-5
) indicating the enhancement of 
the spontaneous emission into a lasing mode provided by the high distributed feedback effect in 
GaN-based PCSELs.  
Figure 4(b) shows the semi natural-logarithm plots of the dependence of the threshold 
pumping energy (ln(Eth) on the operation temperature (T0). The threshold energy gradually 
increased as the operation rose from 100 to 300K. The relationship between the threshold energy 
and the operation temperature could be characterized by the equation: 0/0
T T
thE E e  , where T0 is 
the characteristic temperature and E0 is a constant. Therefore, we obtained a characteristic 
temperature of about 148K by linear fitting of the experiment data, which is close to the value 
reported for GaN-based edge emitting lasers [16]. 
The single mode lasing phenomenon only occurs in the area with PC patterns. The 
normalized frequency (lattice constant over wavelength, a/ ) for the lasing wavelength emitted 
from our PC lasers with different lattice constants were plotted as shown in Fig. 5(a). All the PC 
lasers have lasing peaks in a range from 401 nm to 425 nm. It can be seen that the normalized 
lasing frequency (dotted points in the figure) increased with the lattice constant in a discontinues 
and step-like fashion. To calculate the band diagram of the hexagonal PC patterns in this structure, 
we employed the plane-wave expansion method in two-dimensions with an effective index 
approach that took into account the effects of partial modal overlap of electromagnetic fields with 
the PC structures [9]. As a starting point, the overlapped ratio of light confined within the 2D PC 
structure to light extended in the entire device, Γg, and the effective refractive index of the entire 
device neff were first estimated by using the transfer matrix method. The calculation showed that 
the lowest order guided mode had the highest confinement factor for both PC and MQW regions 
and the Γg, and neff were estimated to be 0.563 and 2.495, respectively. Then, we determined the 
effective dielectric constants of the two materials in the unit cell, εa and εb, 
using 2 (1 )eff a bn f f       and ( )b a g mat air           , where 
2 22 /( 3)f r a  is a filling 
factor and εmat and εair are dielectric constants of GaN (= 2.5
2
) and air (= 1
2
), respectively. The 
values of εa (4.11) and εb (7.07) thus obtained were then put into the calculation of the band 
diagram for the 2D hexagonal-lattice structure with r/a = 0.25.  
shown in Fig. 8, we are able to classify the lasing actions into three groups, where lasing within 
Г1 mode shows the lowest threshold power while lasing within M3 mode has the highest 
threshold power. Such results could be attributed to the different coupling effects at different band 
edges, which can be explained by coupled-wave model calculation. 
To simplify the calculation, the 2D PC structure investigated here consists of an infinite 
hexagonal lattice with circular air holes in the x and y directions. The corresponding 2D K space 
is shown in Fig. 9. The structure is also assumed to be uniform in the z direction. In addition, the 
gain effects are neglected here during the calculation to extract the pure diffraction effects. While 
considering the infinite structure, the scalar wave equation for the magnetic field Hz in the TE 
mode can be written as [12-14]. 
2 2
2
2 2
0z z z
H H
k H
x y
 
  
 
 
(1) 
where  
 2 2
0
2 2 ( )exp ( )
G
k j k G j G r  

     (2) 
 
And the magnetic field can be described by the Bloch mode when considering the 1 band edge 
as shown in Fig. 9: 
 ( ) exp ( )Gz
G
H r h j k G r    (3) 
where       
0 0 0 0
0 0
1 3 1 3 1 3 1 3
ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )ˆ ˆ2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
1 2 3 4 5 6( , )
i x y i x y i x y i x y
i x i x
zH H x y e H e H e H e H e H e
   
 
 
       
       
(4) 
Substituting Eq. (4) and Eq. (2) into Eq. (1), and comparing the equal exponential terms, we can 
obtain six wave equations. 
1 2
1 1 2 6 3 5 3 4( ) ( ) ( )
2 2
H i H i H H i H H i H
x
 
  

         

  
1 2
2 2 2 1 3 4 6 3 5
1 3
( ) ( ) ( )
2 2 2 2
H H i H i H H i H H i H
x y
 
  
 
          
 
  
1 2
3 3 3 2 4 1 5 3 6
1 3
( ) ( ) ( )
2 2 2 2
H H i H i H H i H H i H
x y
 
  
 
          
 
  
1 2
4 4 3 5 2 6 3 1( ) ( ) ( )
2 2
H i H i H H i H H i H
x
 
  

        

  
1 2
5 5 5 4 6 1 3 3 2
1 3
( ) ( ) ( )
2 2 2 2
H H i H i H H i H H i H
x y
 
  
 
         
 
  
1 2
6 6 6 1 5 2 4 3 3
1 3
( ) ( ) ( )
2 2 2 2
H H i H i H H i H H i H
x y
 
  
 
          
 
 (5.a-f) 
  
where H1, H2, H3, H4, H5 and H6 express the envelope magnetic field distributions of individual 
light waves propagating in the six equivalent Г-M directions: 0°, +60°, +120°,+180°, +240°, and 
+300° with respect to the x-axis. 1 , 2 , and 3  are the coupling coefficients between light 
waves propagating at 60° to each other (H1 and H2, H2 and H3, and so on), at 120° (H1 and H3, H2 
and H4, and so on), and at 180° (H1 and H4, H2 and H5, and so on), respectively. δ is the deviation 
of the wave number β (expressed as 2πν/c, where ν is the frequency and c is the velocity of light) 
from the fundamental propagation constant β0 (equal to 4 / 3a , where a is the lattice constant) 
for each cavity mode, and expressed as 2 20 0( ) / 2     . α is the corresponding threshold gain. 
By solving Eq. (5.a-f), an eigen frequency ν for each band-edge mode and the corresponding 
threshold gain α for a given set of coupling coefficients, 
1 , 2 , and 3 , can be obtained. When 
only the eigen frequencies are concerned, the derivation terms and the threshold gain α in Eq. 
(5.a-f) can be set to zero, and the individual eigen frequencies can then be derived as follows: 
1 0 1 2 3( )
2 eff
c
n
    

     
(6.a) 
in-plane distributed feedback laser. Moreover, it is interesting to note that the lasing action within 
Г1 mode shows the lowest threshold power in Fig. 8, which could be attributed to the largest 
coupling coefficient. On the other hand, lasing within M3 mode has the highest threshold power 
due to the lowest coupling coefficient. 
The reciprocal spaces of triangular lattice are shown in Fig. 11. The diffracted light wave 
from the PC structure should satisfy the Bragg’s law and energy conservation law as followed:  
Kd = Ki + q1K1 + q2K2    q1, 2 = 0, ±1, ±2... (10) 
ωd = ωi (11) 
where Kd is a xy-plane wave vector of diffracted light wave; Ki is a xy-plane wave vector of 
incident light wave; q1,2 is the order of coupling; ωd is the frequency of diffracted light wave, and 
ωi is the frequency of incident light wave. Eq. (10) represents the phase-matching condition (or 
momentum conservation), and Eq. (11) represents the constant-frequency condition (or energy 
conservation) [9, 17]. As shown in Fig. 11(a), the first band-edge mode at Γ boundary, termed as 
Γ1 band-edge, is assisted by second order or by higher order diffraction, the diffracted waves in 
the in-plane direction includes five directions 60°, 120°, -60°, -120°, and 180. Simultaneously, 
the diffracted light can emit perpendicularly from the PC surface by satisfying the first order 
Bragg diffraction as shown in Fig. 11(d). Therefore, the PC lasers can operate as surface emitting 
lasers. Let’s first turn our attention to the K boundary. Fig. 11(b) and (e) show the in-plane and 
vertical diffraction for the K2 band-edge mode. To satisfy the energy conservation, these 
diffracted lights with smaller in-plane K values need to be diffracted to a tilted angle of 30˚ off to 
the normal of the PC surface as shown in Fig. 11(e). Therefore, we could expect that the emission 
angle of K2 mode would be different from that of the Γ1 mode. Similarly, Fig. 11(c) and (f) show 
the more complicated in-plane and vertical diffraction at M3 band-edge mode. In this case, except 
the in-plane diffracted light, several inclined diffracted lights can exist. The tilted angles of these 
inclined diffracted lights can be calculated as 19.47˚, 35.26˚, and 61.87˚ off to the normal of the 
PC surface, respectively.  
 The diameter of the whole PC region is about 50μ m, where the hexagonal PC lattice 
constants are ranging from 190 nm to 260 nm, and the r/a ratios are between 0.18 and 0.3. The 
angle-resolved photoluminescence (ARPL) system has the 325 nm CW He-Cd laser beam or the 
355 nm pulse YVO4 laser beam as the optical pumping lasers which are incident onto the PCSEL 
devices obliquely with a spot size of about 50 μm to cover the whole PC pattern. A fiber with a 
core radius of 600 μm is used to collect the out-of -plane emission signal from the sample surface 
by rotated the fiber on a rotational arm, The resolutions of the spectral meter and rotation angle (θ) 
are 0.7Å  and 0.5˚, respectively.  
The normalized lasing frequencies (a/λ) of PCSEL devices with different lattice constants 
can be grouped into three values of 0.48, 0.56, and 0.59, corresponding to PCSEL devices with 
which was also quite matched to one of the estimated values (61.87
o
) shown in Fig. 11(f). Only 
one emission angle was obtained which could be due to that we only measured the ARPL 
diagram alone one Γ-M direction. 
Fig. 15 shows the divergence angles of Γ1, K2, and M3 band-edge modes on the normal 
plane from the sample surface despite the measurements were along different directions. The 
lasing emission angles are (0˚, 29˚, 59.5˚) and the divergence angles of laser beams are (1.2˚, 2.5˚, 
2.2˚) for (Γ1, K2, M3) band edge modes, respectively. The minor peaks at K2 and M3 modes 
might be due to other guided modes propagated in the GaN and sapphire substrate. Since the high 
order band-edge modes such as K2 and M3 of photonic crystal lasers require higher threshold 
gains, the pumping is so intense that the other guided modes could be appeared. Nevertheless, the 
dominant mode and the divergence angle can be properly identified. It should be noted that the 
measured emission angles might have some offset values (about 1˚ to 2˚) due to the alignment 
difficulties in the ARPL system. However, from the above observation of our PCSEL devices, not 
only the higher band edge modes were determined but their characteristics can be properly 
matched to the Bragg diffraction mechanism in 2D PC structure.  
 
CONCLUSIONS 
We have successfully fabricated a series of GaN-based PCSELs incorporated AlN/GaN 
bottom DBRs with different lattice constants. Under the optical pumping at room temperature, a 
clear threshold characteristic was observed with a threshold energy density of about 2.7 mJ/cm
2
 
for the PC lattice of 234 nm. Above the threshold, only one dominant peak was observed at 401.8 
nm with a linewidth of about 0.16 nm. Compared with photonic band diagram and the relation 
between the PC lattice constants and normalized frequencies, the characteristics of Γ, M, and K 
points lasing can be further identified by the polarization angle of the output emission. The PC 
surface-emitting laser also shows a spontaneous emission coupling factor β of about 5x10-3 and a 
characteristic temperature of about 148K.  
The coupled-wave model in 2D hexagonal-lattice was applied to explain the discrepancy in 
threshold power by considering higher components of Bloch modes and the corresponding 
coupling coefficients. It was demonstrated that the lasing action within Г1 mode which had the 
lowest threshold power corresponded to the largest coupling coefficient. 
Furthermore, normalized frequency of investigated PC lasing wavelength can be 
corresponding to three band-edge frequencies (Γ1, K2, M3), which indicates the lasing action can 
only occur at specific band-edges. According to the Bragg diffraction theory and the 
angle-resolved PL diagrams, it further proved the existence of lasing modes at different 
band-edge (Γ1, K2, M3) by mapping the diffraction patterns with band structures. The three 
  
 
 
Fig. 4 (a) Laser emission intensity versus pumping energy in a logarithmic scale. The β value 
estimated from the difference between the two dash lines is about 510-3. (b) Temperature 
dependence of the lasing threshold pumping energy (Eth). 
 
 
Fig. 5 (a) Normalized frequency verses PC lattice constant. The solid square points are the lasing 
wavelengths from the different PC structures. (b) Calculated band diagram of the 2D 
hexagonal-lattice structure. The dotted lines are guides for band edges. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Normalized frequency verses r/a ratios. The solid (black), dot (red), and dash (green) lines 
represent the simulation results of Г, K, and M lasing groups by plane wave expansion method. 
The square points, inserted in the diagram, present the experiment results mapped and compared 
with the simulation results. 
 
  
Fig. 10. Schematic diagram of propagation waves in hexagonal lattice for (a) K2 band edge; (b) 
M3 band edge. 
 
 
 
Fig. 11. The Bragg diffraction paths of (a) Γ1, (b) K2, and (c) M3 band-edge modes, respectively. 
The emission angles on the normal plane of (d) Γ1, (e) K2, and (f) M3 band-edge modes. 
 Fig. 14. The measured ARPL diagram near the M3 mode ((a) pumped by YVO4 pulse laser; (b) 
pumped by HeCd laser). The red dash lines represent the calculated photonic band dispersion 
curves. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 15. The emission angles and divergence angles of Γ1, K2, and M3 band-edge modes on the 
normal plane from the sample surface. 
 
 
 
 
[16] C. Skierbiszewski, P. Perlin, I. Grzegory, Z. R. Wasilewski, M. Siekacz, A. Feduniewicz, P. 
Wisniewski, J. Borysiuk, P. Prystawko, G. Kamler, T. Suski, and S. Porowski, Semicond. Sci. 
Technol. 20, 809 (2005). 
[17] Fre d´e r´ic S. Diana, Aure l´ien David, Ines Meinel, Rajat Sharma, Claude Weisbuch, Shuji 
Nakamura and Pierre M. Petroff, Nano Lett. 6, 1116-1120 (2006). 
[18] H. Y. Ryu, S. H. Kwon, Y. J. Lee, Y. H. Lee, and J. S. Kim, Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 3476 
(2002). 
 
 
 可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：99 年 10 月日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：高發光效率之氮化鎵二維面射型光子晶體分散回饋式雷
射 
計畫主持人：盧廷昌        
計畫編號：           學門領域：光電工程學門 
技術/創作名稱 光子晶體面射型雷射 
發明人/創作人 
陳士偉、高宗鼎、劉子維、劉亭均、陳建綱、侯延儒、盧廷昌、郭
浩中、王興宗 
技術說明 
中文：利用金屬有機氣相磊晶系統成長高品質之氮化鎵共振腔發光
二極體結構包含多層氮化鋁與氮化鎵的布拉格反射鏡並且製作光
子晶體奈米結構於此樣品上，最後形成光子晶體面射型雷射。不同
的雷射波段位於光子晶體週期形成的能帶邊緣，因此具有不同的雷
射特性包含在 k 空間中的 Г、M 及 K 點方向的雷射。因此我們可以
利用不同的光子晶體週期控制不同的雷射模態、方向以及波長。此
外，本光子晶體面射型雷射具有較高的自發輻射因子及特徵溫度分
別為 5*10-3 及 148K。以及得知 Γ、K 及 M 點所對應到的出射角度
為 0˚, 29˚及 59.5˚，而發散角為 1.2˚, 2.5˚, and 2.2˚。未來可以應用
於雷射相關之應用如雷射印表機、雷射光碟機及雷射投影機等…。 
 
英文： GaN-based two-dimensional (2D) photonic crystal (PC) 
surface-emitting lasers with AlN/GaN distributed Bragg reflectors are 
fabricated by using metal organic chemical vapor deposition. 
According to the plane-wave expansion method and satisfied Bragg 
theory, the different lasing wavelengths can be attributed to the 
different band-edge modes, such as Γ1, K2, and M3. This result can be 
further confirmed by the polarization directions of these three band 
edge modes (Γ1，K2，M3). Therefore, we can control the wavelength, 
modes, and direction of PC surface-emitting laser by fabrication 
different photonic crystal lattice. The PC surface-emitting laser also 
shows a higher spontaneous emission coupling factor β of 5x10-3 and a 
characteristic temperature of 148K. Moreover, from the 
angular-resolved μ-PL measurements, we can obtain the lasing angles 
of these modes normally from the sample surface are 0˚, 29˚, and 59.5˚, 
and the laser beam divergence angles are 1.2˚, 2.5˚, and 2.2˚. Further, 
the devices can be applied in the relative application including the laser 
printer, the CD-ROM, DVD-ROM drive disc, the projector, and so on. 
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可用於發光二極體和雷射等照明設備工業。發光波段可含蓋紫外光
至綠光。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月26日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
高發光效率之氮化鎵二維面射型光子晶體分散回饋式雷射
盧廷昌
97 -2221-E -009 -030 -MY2 光電子材料元件與模組
利用反射鏡及低折射率層製作光子晶體雷射
Fabrication of Photonic Crystal laser by Mirrors and low refractive
index layers
國立交通大學 盧廷昌,陳士偉,郭浩中,王興宗
本發明使用有機金屬化學氣相磊晶(MOCVD)等儀器製作氮化系列的雷射元件。此
結構包含基板、反射鏡、低折射率層以及具有固定厚度的發光主動層，接著在
發光主動層上製作光子晶體奈米結構。此反射鏡可以使用布拉格反射鏡或高反
射率的金屬層或全角度反射鏡用以增加元件之發光效率。接著，使用固定厚度
的發光主動層以及光子晶體結構搭配低折射率層，此結構可以有效的將光場侷
限於主動發光層中，增加光場與光子晶體的交互作用，增加發光效率進而減少
元件的操作電流密度，最後達到低電流操作下的雷射元件。其次，使用黃光微
影及蝕刻技術製作電流侷限層、電流擴散層及金屬電極層。電流擴散層使電流
均勻的散佈於元件中。電流侷限層使電流侷限於光子晶體結構以達到雷射操作
的臨界電流密度。最後利用光子晶體的特性使光不但能垂直共振，更能在水平
方向上共振達到光子晶體面射型雷射的效果。
The devices are grown and consisted of substrates, reflectors, low
refractive index layers, and a light emitting layer with a fixed
thickness by MOCVD and fabricated the photonic crystal nanostructures
on the devices. The distributed Bragg reflectors, the metal layers
with high reflectance, or the ohmic director reflectors as the
mirrors in the whole devices can enhance the light emitting
efficiency. Photonic crystal and low refractive index layers of the
devices can confine the light field and enhance the coupling between
light field and photonic crystal. The devices can also enhance the
light emitting efficiency and reduce the threshold current density of
the devices. Furthermore, the passivation layers, metal contact
layer, the current spreading layers, and etching technique of the
laser diodes can provide the laser devices suitable parameters and資訊服務業；研究發展服務業
雷射及光子晶體發光元件
本實驗室已經具有氮化鎵系列之光子晶體面射型雷射的相關製程，並且發表在高影響
力的期刊中，相信可以藉由此技術技術轉移至業界，將此技術推廣至商品化
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
