active target molecules from traditional chinese herb 
medicine using surface-modified electrochemical 
quartz crystal microbalance. In which, the potential 
component of the TCM will be detected by receptor of 
interest immobilized on Au functionalized crystal 
surface. In the study, the anti-cancer compound will 
be quickly isolated from the crude extract based on 
the proposed mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr 
compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based 
on electronic transduction due to frequency change by 
molecule specific binding. To our knowledge, this is 
the first report on the detection of target component 
of TCM using EQCM. 
The research in the first year was finished as 
follows: (1) The E-QCM device has been set up in lab 
scale. (2) The electrochemical quartz crystal 
microbalance was connected to the auxiliary analog 
PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the 
electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The 
quartz plate was surface-modified by model compound 
to catch the target drug to the surface. (3) A simple 
model was used to test the sensitivity and the 
limitation of the EQCM system was compared with the 
SPR and ELISA method. 
 
英文關鍵詞： chinese herb medicine, disease diagnosis, cancer 
early detection, surface modification 
 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
v 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
期末報告 
表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
 
 
計畫類別：v 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-009-MY3 
執行期間： 2008/08/01 ~ 2011/07/31 
 
計畫主持人：林峰輝 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：v精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 v二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台大醫學工程學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 100 年 11月 25 日 
附件一 
INTRODUCTION 
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissues 
of nasopharynx. Ethnic background (Chinese or Asian ancestry) and exposure to the Epstein-Barr 
virus (EBV) can affect the risk of developing nasopharyngeal cancer. The overall incidence of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma is highest in china [1]. Epstein-Barr virus is potentially oncogenic 
human herpes virus capable of infecting lymphoid and epithelial cells. Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is 
a prototype of gamma herpes virus that infects approximately 90% of the population worldwide [2]. 
Primary infection normally occurs in early childhood, is usually asymptomatic and results in 
life-long virus persistence, but when exposure is delayed until adolescence, infection 
mononucleosis often ensues provoking an infection during early adulthood. EBV has a strong 
tropism for human lymphocytes and for the epithelium of the upper respiratory tract, where it can 
remain latent [3]. This virus has been associated with different neoplastic diseases, like polyclonal 
B lymphoproliferation in immunosuppressed patients, Burkitt lymphoma or Hodgkin’s disease [4]. 
However, the tumor showing the strongest worldwide association with EBV is nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC) [5], but the viral mechanisms of pathogenesis in the NPC are a recurrent theme of 
debate.  
Epstein–Barr virus was the first human virus identified to be associated with human cancers, 
including lymphomas as well as epithelial tumors [6]. The association between EBV infection and 
NPC is well documented and particularly close with EBV genome present in virtually all NPC cells. 
NPC is a tumoral entity with a complex carcinogenic pattern with different histological types: UC 
(undifferentiated carcinoma), NKC (nonkeratinizing carcinoma), and SCC (squamous cell 
carcinoma) (Fig. 1) under the WHO classification [7], and previous studies have demonstrated the 
presence of EBV in all the histological types [8,9]. 
One important question concerning to the EBV infection is the mechanism of entry for the 
virus into nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. The biological cycle of the virus begins with the 
introduction of its genetic material into the cell through the CD21 membrane receptor [8,9], which 
is mainly expressed on B lymphocytes [10], although it is also present in human pharyngeal cells 
[11] and in several epithelial cells [8,9]. After binding to CD21, virions are internalized through an 
endocytic process and viral genome is integrated to the cell genome, establishing a lysogenic cycle. 
Occasionally, and by causative factors still under study such as genetic susceptibility and life-style, 
virus can be reactivated starting a lytic cycle that could produce the origin of a malignant disorder 
[12]. 
LMP1 is an integral membrane protein with oncogenic potential encoded by the BNLF-1 
gene (also called LMP1 gene) of EBV [13], and was the first EBV latent gene found to transform 
established rodent cell lines and alter the phenotype of both lymphoid and epithelial cells [14-16]. 
LMP1 is often present in nasopharyngeal carcinomas and was detected in preinvasive lesions of the 
nasopharynx [5]. The frequent expression of LMP1 in undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
indicates a role for this viral oncoprotein as a key effector molecule in NPC pathogenesis. 
Fig. 
1. LMP1, 
Bcl-2, and 
p53 
expression 
in the 
grouped 
NPC 
samples 
and 
separated 
by 
histological 
type. Inset; 
relative 
variation of 
the three  
 
EGFR is a strong prognostic indicator associated with more aggressive disease and reduced 
survival. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; HER1; erbB1) is expressed or highly 
expressed in a variety of human tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), breast, 
head and neck, gastric, colorectal, esophageal, prostate, bladder, renal, pancreatic, and ovarian 
cancers [7]. A variety of techniques may be used to evaluate EGFR at the DNA, RNA, and 
protein levels, as well as the level of receptor activation in situ [8]. This suggests that EGFR 
plays a role in the malignant phenotype [9] and that it should be included as diagnostic marker or 
in prospective studies of these tumors. Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) has 
become a standard detection method for its ability to amplify a spectroscopic signal from an 
enzyme reaction, but certain obstacles have limited its success. These limitations include a lack of 
simple quantitation and excessive time required. Furthermore, chromophore, fluorophore, or 
enzyme tags required for detection can affect the antigen/antibody (Ag/Ab) interaction, and 
nonspecific adsorption of analyte to a hydrophobic well plate can lead to random orientation of 
binding sites and possible denaturation of substrate [10]. 
Efforts to develop a label-free, time-efficient, quantitative assay format that allows for 3D 
substrates, multilayer adsorptions, and nonrigid biological recognition are an area of concentrated 
research interest [11]. For this, two different techniques have been emerged are surface plasmon 
resonance spectroscopy (SPR) and the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). However, compared 
to SPR, some important advantages make QCM an attractive tool for immunosensing. The 
advantages include, very small size, minimal electrical and electronic requirements, adaptability 
to microfluidic techniques, sequential refinement of positive signals and inexpensive fabrication 
as compared to the complicated and expensive optics of commercial SPR [11,12]. Another 
advantage of QCM is the ability to work with 3D substrates and multilayer adsorptions.  
Pierre and Jacques Curie first showed piezoelectric behavior of some materials in 1880. 
They observed that in crystals without symmetrical distribution of electrical charges, the 
application of pressure causes an electrical potential between the deformed surfaces [13]. 
Sauerbrey [14] (1959) investigated the feasibility of using piezoelectric quartz as a means of 
detecting mass change. The equation that he derived describes quantitatively the relationship 
between the shift in frequency and the change in mass of the crystal. In an ideal state, for an 
AT-cut quartz crystal with a known gold area (A) in the gas phase, the equation is: 
 
 
The oscillation frequency (ΔF), calculated respect the fundamental frequency of the 
crystal (F0), is only affected by the addition of the extra mass to the crystal (ΔM). From this, 
substituting for the various constants gives for the quartz, a sensitivity of 10
-9
 g/Hz was calculated. 
The QCM detection principle relies on recording the frequency decrease corresponding to mass 
increase on the chip surface during biological interaction [15]. To implement a 
QCM-immunosensor, antibody has to be immobilized on the crystal surface to capture the target 
compound, i.e. antigen [16]. 
As we discussed, quartz crystal microbalance has been extensively used in the detection of 
various kind of biomolecules. In order to assess the sensitivity of Quartz crystal microbalance 
system to detect EGFR was studied by surface functionalized anti-epidermal growth factor 
receptor. The affinity purified antibody was useful in the detection of EGFR by selective binding. 
 We propose the development of an ultra sensitive method for the detection of the 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) 
measurements as electronic transduction method. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the 
detection of NPC using EQCM.  
The proposed project is aimed to design a highly sensitive detection system for 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In which, the 
potential biomolecule LMP1 of the Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) will be detected by modified 
crystal surface. 
 
OBJECTIVES 
 As NPC is a major concern in china, it would be chosen here as a model system for 
biological detection. Many important physical and chemical processes can be followed by 
observing the associated mass changes. This work will describes the mechanistic investigation of 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Overview of the AT- quartz crystals 
 
The quartz crystal used as a sensor in the EQCM technique is not only sensitive to changes 
in mass of the working electrode. It is also highly sensitive to changes in temperature, pressure 
and viscous loading. Temperature and pressure can be controlled, but the principle of a 
switch-flow cell experiment is to change the electrolyte. Consequently, the changes in viscosity 
have to be compensated for. This can be done by simultaneous recording of the quartz crystal 
resonance frequency and resistance [39]. In the EQCM, the equation of the resonant frequency 
change for mass change has been presented by Sauerbrey equation [40]: 
 
△f = -2f0
2 △m/A (ρqμq)
1/2 
  
In the commonly used case of AT-cut quartz crystals, thickness–shear vibrations in a thin 
quartz plate are induced by means of the piezoelectric effect when an alternating electric field at 
the resonant frequency is applied to the exciting electrodes attached to either side of the plate. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
AT-cut quartz crystals are used as QCMs due to their low temperature co-efficient at room 
temperature with only minimal frequency changes due to temperature in that region, as a 
consequence. The crystals may be rough or smooth, clear or clouded. For the liquid-phase, 
however, optically polished crystals are recommended as liquid can get caught in the crevices of 
rough crystals and sometimes result in spurious frequency changes. The crystal diameter plays an 
important role in stability. Crystals are generally 0.5 inches in diameter, although crystals one 
inch or larger are available. The thickness of the crystal determines the resonant frequency, which 
in turn determines the mass sensitivity. Thinner devices resonate at higher frequencies and are 
more sensitive, but tend, however, to be very fragile.  
 Quartz resonators with fundamental frequencies of 5 and 10 MHz will be used in the 
experimental exploration of energy trapping. The ac excitation for the quartz crystal is generated 
by a TTL digital oscillation circuit. The crystal and its electrodes are incorporated into a 
positive-feedback oscillator circuit. Changes in resonant frequency will be measured using a 
frequency counter. The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance will be connected to the 
auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. Fitting and simulation of the electrochemical data will be calculated by means of the 
Autolab GPES 4.8 and FRA 4.8 or any other suitable softwares. Additionally, a specially 
designed electrochemical capillary microcell will be used to probe the sensitivity of a 5 MHz 
QCM in the presence of a heavy deposit. The deposited mass is calculated using Faraday’s law. 
Admittance changes of the resonator during local deposition will be recorded using a HP 8751 
network analyzer. Deposition of a thin film on the crystal surface decreases the frequency in 
proportion to the mass of the film. A typical experimental apparatus set up is shown in Fig. 5. 
Record of binding of Hb to the DOCA-modified piezosensor by QCN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyclic voltammogram of a DOCA-modified piezosensor before (#1) and after Hb 
adsorption (#2) 
(Scan rate: 2000mVs
−1
; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Square wave voltammograms obtained for HbA0 (#1) and Hb samples containing 20% of 
HbA1c (#2) 
(Scan rate: −500mV to 500mV; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5; f = 
25Hz with an amplitude of 25mV) 
 
Immobilization of the biomolecule on the crystal surface is an important aspect of 
immunosensor development. The immobilization process must guarantee the preservation of the 
biological activity of the biomolecule and a more efficient binding. Several approaches for 
achieving oriented antibody immobilization have been studied and applied to piezoelectric 
immunosensor development. 
 
Steps involved: 
• Modification of the gold electrode surface to create functional groups. 
Monitoring of Hb adsorption 
Measurement of HbA1c 
 
  
 
 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
3.1. Surface modification and activation of the thiol monolayer 
Self-assembled monolayer (SAM) on gold surface has become an increasingly important 
method for molecular immobilization [17]. The response of the QCM sensor to thiosalicylic acid 
of varying time scale was depicted in Fig. 1. Accordingly, Fig. represents the formation of thiol 
monolayer on the gold surface (dot line). The frequency response of a cleaned quartz crystal 
without thiol modification was taken as reference. The bare quartz crystal without monolayer 
formation showed the resonant frequency of 7.994990 Hz in reaction buffer. The addition of 
phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) resulted in minimum frequency shift of 10 Hz, which does not lead to 
any noticeable change in the crystal frequency. Whereas, the crystal treated with TSA showed, the 
initial frequency of 7.994464 Hz. Compared with the resonant frequency of bare gold crystal, the 
observed decrease in resonance frequency attributed the formation of TSA monolayer on the 
quartz crystal. It should be noted that QCM frequency shift analysis confirmed the expected 
binding of the thiol molecules. When the gold-sputtered crystal was immersed in thiol solution, 
the adsorption of organosulfuric compounds on the gold surfaces was by chemisorption via thiol 
groups leaving the carboxyl groups on the crystal-electrode surface [18]. On the other hand, the 
QCM sensor response towards the TSA addition on different time scale showed there is no 
time-dependent frequency decrease and the reaction between thiol group and gold is 
exceptionally specific. The adsorption time of thiol molecule seems to be independent of chain 
length however time is needed to obtain a regular and well organized monolayer. There are two 
reactions proposed to explain the strong and fast reaction between thiol-gold surface, (i) ionic 
dissociation and (ii) radical formation [19]. Immobilization of bio-molecules using cross linking 
procedures like thiols provided a longer sensor lifetime [20]. Following the self-assembled thiol 
monolayer, an activation of the TSA-modified crystal surface was constructed by the addition of 
equi-molar ratio of EDC-NHS, which involves a step-wise formation and replacement of terminal 
prepared by two different patterns (i) chemical cross-linking (ii) protein G mediated site-specific 
antibody immobilization. The representative standard curve for the EGFR detection assay (Fig. 
4-5) was obtained by employing six different individual concentrations which were in the range 
of 0.001 to 20 μg/mL. A linear relationship between Δf (Hz) and different EGFR concentrations 
were obtained for both chemical and site-specific antibody immobilization. In the case of EGFR 
binding on chemically crosslinked antibody, it showed correlation coefficient of 0.9237. The 
correlation coefficient of 0.9827 was observed for the EGFR binding on site-specifically 
immobilized antibody. Antibody on the chemically functionalized electrode surface exhibited 
comparatively lower binding activity f r EGFR with a detection limit of 100 ng/mL (Fig. 4). With 
regard to the magnitude of response and the detection limit, antibody anchored through protein G 
delivered the best result for EGFR binding with a detection limit of 10 ng/mL (Fig. 5). At this 
concentration the piezoelectric immunosensor recorded the frequency difference of 12.57 Hz. The 
lower EGFR binding efficiency in chemical cross-linking was expected because unlike antibody 
on the protein G surface, the number of the antigen binding sites was less and it may be explained 
by random antibody orientation. 
 
3.5. Detection of antigen (EGFR) using antibody functionalized quartz crystal 
Specific detection of EGFR was achieved by QCM sensor using antibody functionalized 
crystal as a change in frequency shift. Fig. 6. showed the dose responses for EGFR concentration 
when antibodies were immobilized on the QCM by two different binding patterns. Among the 
two immobilization patterns, it was considered that the highest sensitivity for EGFR detection 
was achieved when anti-EGFR antibody was immobilized via protein G (Fig. 6). Although the 
concentration of the antibody on the protein G surface was lower than that of chemical 
cross-linking it provides a greaterdegree of orientation for EGFR binding and also displayed a 
good antigen binding ability. The reaction time of antigen-antibody binding reached equilibrium 
in 60 min. The fig. 6. illustrated the change in frequency shift (Δf, Hz) upon binding of EGFR as 
a function of the antigen concentration. When EGFR at a concentration of 1 ng/mL was bound to 
the site-specifically antibody oriented surface, the value of frequency shift was not significantly 
changed (Δf = 0.69 Hz). Whereas, for 10 ng/mL of EGFR, a significant change in frequency shift 
was observed (Δf = 12.57 Hz). Thus, the detection limit of 10 ng/mL of EGFR was achieved. In 
case of antigen binding on chemically immobilized surface, there was no frequency shift 
variation for 1 and 10 ng/mL of EGFR binding. Further, the results of antigen-antibody binding 
implied that antigen binding on sitespecifically antibody was about 10 fold sensitive than antigen 
binding on chemically immobilized antibody. The overall results indicated that the detection limit 
of EGFR by QCM was in the range of 10 ng/mL to 20 μg/mL. The frequency shift conversion to 
mass loading effect of EGFR binding onto antibody immobilized on a chemical and sitespecific 
pattern were explained in Fig. 7-8. The Sauerbrey equation was applied to convert the frequency 
shift (Δf) into mass changes (mass per unit area (Δm/ng/0.02cm2). On the basis of Sauerbrey’s 
equation, delta frequency (Δf) relates directly to the change of mass on the surface of the quartz 
crystal. 
As shown in Fig. 7, the mass loading effect of chemically immobilized antibody probe were 
in the range of 2.41 to 283.74 ng for the antigen concentration of 0.01-20 μg/mL. At 0.001 μg/mL 
concentration, there was no mass loading effect (Δm = 0) and a minimal Δm value was noted for 
sequence of flow-cell QCM immunosensor. Both in situ and ex situ methods were employed for 
this assay. The first self-assembled layer of the QCM gold surface was created by the addition of 
thiosalicylic acid. In order to create a highly organized monolayer on the electrode surface, the 
thiol modifications were done in ex situ. The as prepared QCM probe was introduced into the 
flow-cell system for real time binding. Degassed phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) was then injected into 
the flow modules until stable baseline f was achieved (i.e., signal drift less then 2 Hz/h for the f 
shift). The frequency shifts were calculated as the difference between the two stable frequency 
values. The thiolated crystals were activated with EDC-NHS and the first decrease in frequency 
was noted at 60 min which indicated the formation of active NHS ester on the crystal surface 
(step a). When protein G was injected into the flow cell, substantial decrease in frequency shift 
(60 Hz) was observed (step b). The frequency shifts were return closer to the original baseline 
after rinsing with buffer. The non-reacted binding sites were occupied by the addition of 10 mM 
ethanolamine (step c) which resulted in slight frequency change (10 Hz). Followed by antibody 
binding (step d), any unbound and/or nonspecifically bounded antibody was removed from the 
flow cell by rinsing with buffer and stabilization frequency was achieved (step e). The prepared 
biointerface was equipped to capture the target antigen EGFR. When the antigen is introduced 
into flow cell, a considerable decrease in resonance frequency was noted and it is due to the 
specific binding of antigen (1 μg/mL) to the immobilized antibody on the electrode surface (step 
f). The surface was treated with 100 mM NaOH to break the antibody-antigen complex and 
successful regeneration was obtained (step g). At equilibrium withphosphate buffer, the frequency 
reaches a stable value. The working range of the proposed immunosensor was 1 μg/mL based on 
flow-cell mode and it is still comparable with the other previous reports. The minimum detectable 
range of IgE was 2.5 μg/mL using aptamer-based QCM [25]. 
 
3.9. Electrochemical characterization 
The bare Au electrode and a self-assembled thiol monolayer on the gold surface of the 
quartz crystal were electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. Similarly, activation 
of EDC-NHS by the formation of NHS ester, replacement of active NHS esters by primary 
amines of antibody and binding of antigen onto the immobilized antibodies were subjected to 
electrochemical characterization of the related Au electrode in the presence of 10 mM (Fe(SCN)6 
3-/4-. The cyclic voltammograms were taken before and after each treatment and the results were 
presented in Fig. 12. The pretreated bare Au electrode offered a reversible cyclic voltammogram, 
which indicated the clean unchanged Au surface (curve a). The formation of thiol monolayer on 
the Au electrode provided a highly insulating surface and blocked almost all the faradic currents 
(curve b). Several researchers have also observed the highly insulated gold surface after treatment 
with thiol molecules [26,27]. After activation with EDC/NHS, the thiol monolayer was bit high 
insulating and the current flow was decreased further (curve c). Replacement of the active NHS 
ester by antibody macromolecules reduced the penetration of the redox pair and decreased the 
current response (curve d). Insulation was further improved after binding of the target cells onto 
the immobilized antibodies (curve e). The densely packed thiol molecules on the Au electrode 
resulted in the formation of thick insulating layer (curve b) and hence the subsequent layers on 
the electrode surface did not have much chance to widen the distance of the insulating layer. 
 The surface modification of the quartz crystal followed by the immobilization of antibody 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
SELECTED PUBLICATIONS 
1. Chen, J.-C., Sadhasivam, S., Lin, F.-H. Label free gravimetric detection of epidermal growth 
factor receptor by antibody immobilization on quartz crystal microbalance. Process 
Biochemistry 46 (2), pp. 543-550. (SCI, Impact factor: 2.648, Rank: 17/134) 
2. Savitha, S., Sadhasivam, S., Swaminathan, K., Lin, F.H. Fungal protease: Production, 
purification and compatibility with laundry detergents and their wash performance. 2011, 
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 42 (2), pp. 298-304. (SCI, Impact 
factor: 0.573, Rank: 94/134) 
3. Lin, W. Y., S. Sadhasivam and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The dose dependent effects of betulin on 
porcine chondrocytes." Process Biochemistry 44(6): 678-684. (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
4. Sadhasivam, S., S. Savitha, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "Metabolically inactive 
trichoderma harzianum mediated adsorption of synthetic dyes: Equilibrium and kinetic 
studies." Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 40(4): 394-402. (SCI) 
5. Savitha, S., S. Sadhasivam, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "A prototype of proposed 
treatment plant for sago factory effluent." Journal of Cleaner Production 17(15): 1363-1372. 
(SCI, Rank 14/38, IF: 1.362) 
6. Tseng, C. L., W. Y. Su, K. C. Yen, K. C. Yang and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The use of 
biotinylated-egf-modified gelatin nanoparticle carrier to enhance cisplatin accumulation in 
cancerous lungs via inhalation." Biomaterials 30(20): 3476-3485. (SCI, Rank 1/16, IF: 7.365) 
7. Sadhasivam S., Savitha S., Swaminathan K., FH Lin, 2008, “Production, purification and 
characterization of mid-redox potential laccase from a newly isolated Trichoderma harzianum 
WL1”, PROCESS BIOCHEMISTRY, 43:7:736-742, (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Willner I, Katz E. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:1180. 
[2] Bourdillon C, Demaille C, Moiroux J, Save  ´ant JM.  Acc Chem Res 1996, 29:529. 
[3] Blonder R, Katz E, Cohen Y, Itzhak N, Riklin A, Willner I. Anal Chem 1996, 68: 3151. 
[4] Ben-Dov I, Willner I, Zisman E. Anal Chem 1997, 69:3506. 
[5] Patolsky F, Lichtenstein A, Willner I. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:940. 
[6] Czanderna AW, Lu C, in: Walsky, S.P., Czanderna, A.W. (Eds.), Applications of Piezoelectric 
Quartz Crystal Microbalances. Elsevier, New York, 1984. 
[7] Salomon DS, Brandt R, Ciardiello F et al. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 1995, 19:183. 
[8] Arteaga CL. The Oncologist 2002, 7:31. 
[9] Neal DE, Sharples L, Smith K, Fennely J, Harris AL. Cancer 1990, 65:1619. 
[10] Crowther, J. R. The ELISA Guidebook; Humana Press: Totowa, NJ, 2001; Vol. 149. 
[11] Janshoff A, Galla HJ, Steinem C. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:4004. 
[12] Spangler BD, Boney J, Tyler. Anal Chem Acta 1999, 399: 51-62. 
[13] Adler JF, McCallum J. Analyst 1983, 108:1169–89. 
[14] Sauerbrey GZ. Physik 1959, 91:294. 
[15] Thompson M, Arthur CL, Dhaliwal GK. Anal Chem 1986, 58:1206. 
[16] Storri S, Santoni T, Minunni M, Mascini M. Biosens Bioelectron 1998, 13: 347. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
英文： 
The currently available screening methods for the 
detection of target component of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as HPLC, GC, 
GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first 
isolate the compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go 
to do the bioassay to prove the biological functions. 
However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target 
cells. It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret 
cytokines to further act on the target cells; that causes to 
error screening or miss part of effective compounds from the 
TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, 
sensitive screening system for identifying active target 
molecules from traditional chinese herb medicine using 
surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal 
microbalance. In which, the potential component of the TCM 
will be detected by receptor of interest immobilized on Au 
functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract 
based on the proposed mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr 
compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on 
electronic transduction due to frequency change by molecule 
specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the first report on 
the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM 
device has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical 
quartz crystal microbalance was connected to the auxiliary 
analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the 
electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz 
plate was surface-modified by model compound to catch the 
target drug to the surface. (3) A simple model was used to 
test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM system 
was compared with ELISA method.  
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本計畫已將 EQCM 組裝完成，連接 PGSTAT 同時記錄電流及頻率
變化；石英板表面將固定一 model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限，同時與現
有檢測技術做比較。同時完成將 anti-EGFr antibody 接枝在金箔表
面，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限。最後與 ELISA READER 做比較，結
果優於 ELISA 的效果無論在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能
偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本計畫完成後，新
的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選
出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解
作用機制一機完成之目的，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告撰寫格式 
一、說明 
國科會基於學術公開之立場，鼓勵一般專題研究計畫主持人發表其研究成
果，但主持人對於研究成果之內容應負完全責任。計畫內容及研究成果如涉及
專利或其他智慧財產權、違異現行醫藥衛生規範、影響公序良俗或政治社會安
定等顧慮者，應事先通知國科會不宜將所繳交之成果報告蒐錄於學門成果報告
彙編或公開查詢，以免造成無謂之困擾。另外，各學門在製作成果報告彙編時，
將直接使用主持人提供的成果報告，因此主持人在繳交報告之前，應對內容詳
細校對，以確定其正確性。 
本格式說明僅為統一成果報告之格式，以供撰寫之參考，並非限制研究成
果之呈現方式。精簡報告之篇幅（不含封面之頁數）以 4 至 10 頁為原則，完整
報告之篇幅則不限制頁數。 
成果報告繳交之期限及種類（精簡報告、完整報告或期中報告等），應依本
會補助專題研究計畫作業要點及專題研究計畫經費核定清單之規定辦理。 
二、內容格式：依序為封面、中英文摘要、目錄（精簡報告得省略）、報告內容、參
考文獻、計畫成果自評、可供推廣之研發成果資料表、附錄。 
(一)報告封面：請至本會網站（http：//www.nsc.gov.tw）下載製作（格式如附件一）。 
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)。 
(三)報告內容：請包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含
結論與建議）…等。若該計畫已有論文發表者，可以 A4 紙影印，作為成果
報告內容或附錄，並請註明發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期。若有與執行
本計畫相關之著作、專利、技術報告、或學生畢業論文等，請在參考文獻
內註明之，俾可供進一步查考。 
(四)頁碼編寫：請對摘要及目錄部分用羅馬字 I 、II、 III……標在每頁下方中
央；報告內容至附錄部分請以阿拉伯數字 1.2.3.……順序標在每頁下方中央。 
(五)附表及附圖可列在文中或參考文獻之後，各表、圖請說明內容。 
(六)計畫成果自評部份，請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、
研究成果之學術或應用價值、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要
發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
(七)可供推廣之研發成果資料表：凡研究性質屬應用研究及技術發展之計畫，
請依本會提供之表格（如附件二），每項研發成果填寫一份。 
三、計畫中獲補助國外或大陸地區差旅費、出席國際學術會議差旅費或國際合作研
究計畫差旅費者，須依規定撰寫心得報告，以附件方式併同成果報告繳交，並
請於成果報告封面註記。 
四、打字編印注意事項 
1. 用紙 
使用 A4 紙，即長 29.7 公分，寬 21 公分。 
2. 格式 
中文打字規格為每行繕打（行間不另留間距），英文打字規格為 Single Space。 
3. 字體 
報告之正文以中英文撰寫均可。在字體之使用方面，英文使用 Times New 
Roman Font，中文使用標楷體，字體大小請以 12 號為主。 
中文摘要： 
第一年已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變化；石英板表面將固
定一 model component 自溶液中攝取target component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測
極限，同時與現有檢測技術做比較。第二年已完成將anti-EGFr antibody接枝在金箔表面，檢
測EQCM的偵測極限。本年度計畫將與ELISA READER做比較，結果優於ELISA的效果無論
在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本
計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同
時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，未
來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
 
Abstract： 
The currently available screening methods for the detection of target 
component of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first isolate the 
compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go to do the bioassay to prove the 
biological functions. However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target cells. 
It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret cytokines to further act on the 
target cells; that causes to error screening or miss part of effective compounds from 
the TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, sensitive screening 
system for identifying active target molecules from traditional chinese herb 
medicine using surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In 
which, the potential component of the TCM will be detected by receptor of interest 
immobilized on Au functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract based on the proposed 
mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on electronic transduction due 
to frequency change by molecule specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the 
first report on the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research in the first year was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM device 
has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance 
was connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both 
the electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz plate was 
surface-modified by model compound to catch the target drug to the surface. (3) A 
simple model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM 
system was compared with ELISA method.  
 
analyzed markers related with the histological subtypes of NPC. (*p < 0.05; **p < 0.01, and ***p < 
0.001 under the chi-square test)  
LMP1 functions as a constitutively active tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR), activating 
a number of signaling pathways in a ligand-independent manner [17], and it has been described as a 
potent activator of the NF-κB signaling pathway [18]. The consequences of NF-κB activation are 
numerous and include the up-regulation of anti-apoptotic gene products. These roles suggest that 
LMP1 is, direct or indirectly, a key modulator of the apoptosis process, and it was demonstrated 
that expression of LMP1 is associated with upregulation of Bcl-2 oncogene in human B 
lymphocytes [19]. 
Among the EBV induced latent proteins, LMP-1 is a transmembrane protein that has been 
shown to be essential for EBV-induced immortalization of B cells [20]. The possible signs and 
symptoms of NP cancer include trouble in breathing, speaking or hearing, lump in the nose or neck, 
nose bleeds, etc. Some cases of nasopharyngeal cancer can be found early in the course of the 
disease because they result in symptoms that cause patients to seek medical attention. But over 
80% of patients are in advanced stage when they are diagnosed. This is because most of the time, 
cancer spreads quickly to lymph nodes in the neck before any symptoms occur. There are several 
diagnosis methods are available such as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) positron emission tomography (PET) etc., but they are not useful in the early stage of 
detection. Only ELISA can be used in the early detection of NPC, but it also has some 
characteristic drawback like lower detection limit.  
During the last decades bio-electrochemical devices working as sensors and/or systems 
exploiting bio-electrocatalytic effects have become one of the main topics of experimental and 
theoretical studies in the field [21]. The increased interest in using microbalances has resulted, in 
part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [22]. 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) is a widely used technique for the 
monitoring of electrochemically driven surface compositional changes associated with diverse 
materials and processes [23-26]. The primary attractions of the technique are the generality and 
absolute nature of gravimetric detection, the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the 
megahertz regime and the implicitly of response interpretation. Previously, the use of 
antibody-containing polymers together with pulsed electrochemical detection and flow injection 
analysis (FIA) for detection of proteins and small organic molecules [27-29] has been reported. The 
assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or 
piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the development of biosensors [30], 
Enzyme-layered electrodes [31], antigen (or antibody) layers on electrodes [32] or piezoelectric 
crystals [33] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [34] were reported as active 
sensing interfaces for biosensors. A challenging topic in the development of biosensors relates to 
the sensitivity of the detection methods and to the need to develop amplification schemes for the 
analyses. Amplified electrochemical detection of antibodies or antigens was accomplished by 
coupling enzyme-linked bioelectrocatalytic transformations to the antigen-antibody recognition 
events. Antigens or antibodies were modified with redox enzymes, and the respective antigen or 
antibody was analyzed by competitive association in the presence of the enzyme-labeled antigen 
(or antibody) to the sensing interface and by the monitoring of the current resulting from the 
bioelectrocatalytic transformation [35].  
Bioaffinity sensors, which are based on affinity binding between ligands and biomolecules, 
have a wide range of applications as they can use bioaffinity molecules such as specific antibodies 
raised against specific analytes. The assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on 
electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the 
development of biosensors [1], Enzyme-layered electrodes [2], antigen (or antibody) layers on 
electrodes [3] or piezoelectric crystals [4] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [5] 
were reported as active sensing interfaces for biosensors. The increased interest in using 
microbalances has resulted, in part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [6]. The 
primary attractions of the technique are the generality and absolute nature of gravimetric detection, 
the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the megahertz regime and the implicitly of 
response interpretation. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a rational target
 
for antitumor strategies. 
The EGFR is expressed or highly expressed in a variety of human
 
tumors of epithelial origin. 
antibody–antigen binding using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM). The study 
also aimed to verify the effect of surface reaction and modification on the adsorption of 
biologically important molecule (LMP1). This pattern is of prime importance from the point of 
view of bioelectrochemical reactors and/or sensors. The main objectives of the proposed work are 
listed below; 
1. Precoating of electrode and crystal surface. 
2. Modification of the functional group of the Au surface 
3. Immobilization of EPV specific biomarker LMP1 on the modified crystal surface. 
4. Binding of Ag-Ab complex will be determined by voltammetric indication. 
 
Theory and principles of QCM 
 The theoretical foundation for the use of piezoelectricity was first pioneered by Raleigh in 
1885 [36], but the first thorough investigation was by Jacques and Pierre Curie in 1880 [37]. A 
piezoelectric quartz crystal resonator is a precisely cut slab from a natural or synthetic crystal of 
quartz. A quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) consists of a thin quartz disk with electrodes plated 
on it as can be seen in Fig. 2. Quartz crystal in its perfect natural form can be seen in Fig. 3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Schematic of a typical 
piezoelectric crystal 
The application of an external 
electrical potential to a piezoelectric material produces internal mechanical stress. As the QCM is 
piezoelectric, an oscillating electric field applied across the device induces an acoustic wave that 
propagates through the crystal and meets minimum impedance when the thickness of the device 
is a multiple of a half wavelength of the acoustic wave. A QCM is a shear mode device in which 
the acoustic wave propagates in a direction perpendicular to the crystal surface [38]. To make this 
happen, the quartz crystal plate must be cut to a specific orientation with respect to the crystal 
axes. These cuts belonging to the rotated Y-cut family, the AT- and BT- cuts shown in Fig. 4 are 
representative.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. The assignment of axes to a quartz crystal 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Experimental set up for typical EQCM 
Schematic representation of hemoglobin detection in piezoelectric sensor 
(Hal a´mek et al., 2007), [41]. 
 
              Incubation of glycated hemoglobin (Hb) with  
                  ferroceneboronic acid (FcBA) 
 
 
 
 
 Formation of Hb-FcBA complex 
 
 
 Binding of Hb to the DOCA-    
 modified crystal surface 
 
 Binding of Hb-FcBA complex      
 DOCA-modified piezoelectric        
 quartz crystal 
 
 
 
 
Piezoelectric sensor modified with the surfactant DOCA for the quantification of HbA and 
glycated fraction of Hb (HbA1c) 
 
 
 
 
Total Hb 
A. Injection of Hb 
B. Washing with Sorensen phosphate buffer ( pH 7.5) 
R.  5 min regeneration using pepsin solution 
 
The dotted line represents the baseline of the piezoelectric 
quartz crystal 
• Binding of biomolecules via covalent attachment to the surface. 
• Frequency shift analysis by QCM 
Flow chart of the experimental plan 
Quartz crystal was pre-treated by soaking in 1.2 M NaOH for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
Soaked in 1.2M HCl for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
20 µL of concentrated HCl was spread on the gold electrode of the crystal for 1 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
The crystal was then rinsed with absolute ethanol and distilled water and air-dried 
 
 
The cleaned crystal was submerged into the 10mM thiosalicylic acid (prepared in absolute 
ethanol) for 24 h 
 
 (Rinsed with absolute ethanol, and reaction buffer) 
100 µL each of 46mM EDC and 46mM NHS were consecutively placed over the crystal surface 
and were left to react on the crystal surface for 1 h. 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
20 µl of the EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1h 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
The free carboxyl surface was blocked with 100 µl of a 10 mM ethanolamine for 1 h  
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
100 µl of the anti-EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1 h 
 
 
Schematic representation of biomolecule immobilized on the gold surface 
 
 
 
 
 
(Thiosalicylic acid) 
 
 
 
 
EDC and NHS in sequence to form an NHS ester. The transformed carboxyl group to NHS ester 
group has made the electrode surface more hydrophobic. The frequency shift attained by the 
addition of EDC-NHS was reported in Table 1. 
 
3.2. Direct coupling of antibody immobilization on thiol functionalized crystal 
Optimal conditions for antibody immobilization were investigated after varying the antibody 
(anti-EGFR) concentrations on the crystal activated with EDC-NHS to perform antibody 
calibration curve (Fig. 2). The anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody was directed against human 
EGFR and reacts with wild-type EGFR at the molecular weight of 170 kDa. This antibody detects 
both non-phosphorylated and phosphorylated EGFR at residue Y1197. The variation of 
oscillation frequency vs. different antibody concentration was obtained by adding progressively 
higher amounts of anti-EGFR to the TSAEDC/NHS modified crystal. Each antibody was 
immobilized on the QCM by chemical coupling. The active NHS ester is replaced by the primary 
amines of the antibody and the antibody is thus immobilized through the amide bond. The 
immobilization time was optimized at 90 min. From the results of Fig. 2, frequency shift (Δf/Hz) 
was found to be higher at increased antibody concentration and decreased at an optimal 
concentration of 80 μg/mL. The non-specifically bounded antibody may also contribute to some 
frequency shift, however it was removed during washing with phosphate buffer. Excess of 
antibody concentration on QCM sensor resulted in aggregation among antibody molecules when 
the antibody was immobilized, which resulted in decreased detection range [21]. Hence the 80 
μg/mL antibody concentration was selected for antigen detection. 
 
3.3. Antibody immobilization via protein G coupling 
One of the most important aspects in the design of immunosensor is the proper choice of 
immobilization method that will retain the activity of an antibody molecule [22]. In the present 
study, we used genetically engineered truncated protein G for improved surface orientation of 
antibody immobilization. Because, protein G can bind to the Fc domain of the antibody and thus 
allowed antibody immobilization with a homogenous oriented configuration. In this way, both of 
the binding sites (Fab domains) of the antibody were exposed in solution to increase the 
probability of antigen binding. Fig. 3, shows the QCM frequency variation during the addition of 
various concentrations of antibody on the protein G immobilized crystal. The observed frequency 
shifts were 48.5, 175.8, 294.3, 301.5, 295.1 and 286.2 Hz, respectively for 0.1, 1.0, 20, 40, 60, 80 
and 100 μg/mL of antibody. Based on the frequency shift analysis it was found that as the 
antibody concentration increased, the Δf was also increased. It was found that, antibody got 
saturated at a concentration of 40 μg/mL. To provide a reasonable signal with minimal usage of 
anti-EGFR, a preliminary concentration of 40 μg/mL was preferred for further experiments. 
Beyond this level, the frequency change was independent of antibody concentration which 
indicates the binding of antibody to the protein G anchored surfaces. Furthermore, compared to 
the direct antibody immobilization (Fig. 2), antibody immobilization through protein G requires 
very less amount of antibody on the surface to capture the analyte. 
 
3.4. Calibration curve and EGFR binding 
The standard curves for different concentration of EGFR on the electrode surface was 
0.01 μg/mL as 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2. However, it gives a steady response for EGFR concentration 
ranging from 0.1 to 20 μg/mL. The mass loading effect of EGFR binding on site-specific 
antibody probe was specified in Fig. 8. Since, the 1 Hz frequency shift could be considered as the 
signal limit (fluctuation of the quartz crystal was less than 1 Hz in atmosphere), then the limit of 
detection of this QCM sensor to EGFR antigen at the concentration of 0.001 μg/mL (0.69 Hz) is 
not valid in site-specific antibody probing. A least mass loading effect (Δm) of 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2 
was observed for 0.01 μg/mL of EGFR; whereas a highest Δm was noted for 20 μg/mL as 283.7 
ng/0.02 cm2. Furthermore, mass responses generated by the selective layers depend on analyte 
concentration [23]. In our case, improved mass response ratio was accomplished by sitespecific 
antibody layer. 
 
3.6. Specificity of the immunosensor 
The selectivity of the QCM immunosensor was evaluated by assessing its response to 
several analyte-related compounds [24]. One of the greatest challenge in protein microarray is 
nonspecific protein binding resulting in high signal backgrounds and therefore decreasing assay 
sensitivity [25]. The specificity of the fabricated immunosensor was evaluated by testing the 
sensor surface coated with anti-EGFR to other proteins such as BSA and HSA at an concentration 
of 5 mg/mL using the dip-anddry procedure. The interfering proteins were chosen to cover the 
range of possibleinterfering molecules in the human serum. The frequency results indicated that 
there was no significant frequency decrease upon the addition of BSA and HSA to the sensor 
surface (Fig. 9). The QCM biosensor had a distinct response to EGFR antigen, 197.2 ±4.74 Hz 
(n=3, ± S.D) to 20 μg/mL, but had modest response to BSA and HSA. For BSA and HSA, the 
observed frequency changes were 4.16 ± 1.18 Hz and 3.85 ± 1.70 Hz, respectively. It was further 
indicated that the proposed immunosensor had a specific affinity to its corresponding antigen 
(EGFR) and not for other non-specific proteins. Specificity of the sensor chip is a crucial factor in 
the development of detection tools [20]. 
 
3.7. Regeneration of EGFR sensor 
The regeneration of binding surfaces is more important for reusable biosensors but it is often 
difficult to achieve [25]. Regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH assured effective desorption of EGFR 
from EGFR-anti EGFR conjugate complexes. For chemical immobilization, the QCM sensor 
suffered a significant decrease in frequency shift after the second cycle of regeneration. The 
relative frequency shifts at 3rd and 5th cycles were 16 and 4.4 % respectively. Nevertheless, 
site-specifically immobilized QCM crystal demonstrated a reasonable frequency shift till the 4th 
cycle of regeneration (43 %) and showed a variation in frequency shift till 6 cycles of 
regeneration (Fig. 10). Sensor chips made by immobilizing antibody via protein G appeared to be 
stable enough to withstand regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH for 4 times and to be more effective 
than sensor chips prepared by antibody immobilization using chemical cross-linking. One of the 
main advantages of piezoelectric immunosensors upon other immunological techniques relies 
on their ability to be reused as many assay cycles as possible [24]. 
 
3.8. Flow-cell analysis 
Fig. 11, shows the typical binding response of the resonance frequency during the injection 
was confirmed by the frequency shift analysis. Based on the results it was observed that the 
anti-EGFR was successfully immobilized on the surface modified crystal and it is able to 
determine the EGFR under the tested conditions. There are five different steps involved in the 
present study and are given below; that was listed as 6 figures in the first year report: 
Step 1: Surface modification of gold layered quartz crystal by TSA  
Step 2: Activation of terminal carboxyl group by EDC-NHS  
Step 3: Immobilization of anti-EGFR on the carboxylated surface 
Step 4: Blocking the free carboxyl group by Ethanolamine 
Step: Binding of EGFR to the immobilized anti-EGFR 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
 In the 3-year project, we successfully to setup a lab-scale EQCM system, to immobilize 
anti-EFGr antibody to the gold film of quartz plate, to measure the possibility to be drug screen 
and for cancer detection, and to use it to compare with the ELISA in accuracy/efficiency. The 
following conclusions were drawn from the present investigation. The modification of gold 
surface of quartz crystal with a self assembled thiol monolayer was effectively constructed using 
TSA and activated by EDC-NHS. Two different antibody immobilization strategies were tested in 
this work. Antibody binding pattern indicated that immobilization via protein G was better 
positioned for antigen binding than randomly orientated antibodies. A linear relationship that 
existed between frequency shift and the EGFR concentration from 0.01 to 10 μg/mL was 
established. Regeneration results suggests that antibody immobilization via chemical 
cross-linking is not suitable for regeneration processes. Further, this type of immobilization is not 
valid for small scale binding of antigen (10 ng). In both cases, the loss of sensitivity may be 
explained by consecutive treatment with NaOH results in the decrease of antigen binding sites. A 
real time flow cell analysis was compatible to automation; although it had a relative low 
sensitivity compared to the dip-and-dry method (1 μg/mL). The sensor fabrication and antigen 
binding is electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. The proposed QCM 
immunosensor is suitable for sensitive and specific detection of proteins that are of clinical 
interest. To further exploit these possibilities, the current research is focused on the detection of 
EGFR in human serum. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
v 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98年 11月 25日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快
速篩選 
計畫主持人： 林峰輝        
計畫編號：             學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱 石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
發明人/創作人  林峰輝 
技術說明 
中文： 
 
目前從傳統中藥篩選有效藥物或分子的方法，如  ELISA, 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS 或 SPR等，通常步驟繁瑣、費時、費力，相
當沒有效率。這些方法通常需要粗萃取物先進行HPLC分離，將所
分離出之分子，再去作生物效應檢測(bioassay)，有效之後再去作進
一步的分離。這些方法除了費時及步驟繁瑣外，有時因中藥的作用
機制並不是在標的細胞(target cell)上，常常先刺激某一細胞分泌出
細胞激素，再作用在標的細胞上，如果用上述方法篩選，常會錯失
篩選出有效的分子。 
 
本計畫擬發展出一套有效、靈敏、省時省力的方法，自中藥萃
取有效分子，表面修飾電化學石英微天平，因應擬萃取分子與表面
修飾石英板之作用(specific binding)，達到篩選、富集及瞭解藥物作
用機制一次達成的目的，尤其是針對抗癌藥物的篩選。 
 
已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變
化；石英板表面將固定一  model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測極限，同時與現有
檢測技術做比較。本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出
來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用
機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如
果偵測極限可達ng/ml，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
（100~500字） 
附件二 
技術特點 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance was 
connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in 
order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. The quartz plate was surface-modified by model 
compound to catch the target drug to the surface. A simple 
model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of 
the EQCM system was compared with ELISA method. 
推廣及運用的價值 
本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、
低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、
分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如果偵測極限可達
ng/ml，未來可用於各種疾病的早期篩選上。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
v 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
期末報告 
表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
 
 
計畫類別：v 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-009-MY3 
執行期間： 2008/08/01 ~ 2011/07/31 
 
計畫主持人：林峰輝 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：v精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 v二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台大醫學工程學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 100 年 11月 25 日 
附件一 
INTRODUCTION 
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissues 
of nasopharynx. Ethnic background (Chinese or Asian ancestry) and exposure to the Epstein-Barr 
virus (EBV) can affect the risk of developing nasopharyngeal cancer. The overall incidence of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma is highest in china [1]. Epstein-Barr virus is potentially oncogenic 
human herpes virus capable of infecting lymphoid and epithelial cells. Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is 
a prototype of gamma herpes virus that infects approximately 90% of the population worldwide [2]. 
Primary infection normally occurs in early childhood, is usually asymptomatic and results in 
life-long virus persistence, but when exposure is delayed until adolescence, infection 
mononucleosis often ensues provoking an infection during early adulthood. EBV has a strong 
tropism for human lymphocytes and for the epithelium of the upper respiratory tract, where it can 
remain latent [3]. This virus has been associated with different neoplastic diseases, like polyclonal 
B lymphoproliferation in immunosuppressed patients, Burkitt lymphoma or Hodgkin’s disease [4]. 
However, the tumor showing the strongest worldwide association with EBV is nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC) [5], but the viral mechanisms of pathogenesis in the NPC are a recurrent theme of 
debate.  
Epstein–Barr virus was the first human virus identified to be associated with human cancers, 
including lymphomas as well as epithelial tumors [6]. The association between EBV infection and 
NPC is well documented and particularly close with EBV genome present in virtually all NPC cells. 
NPC is a tumoral entity with a complex carcinogenic pattern with different histological types: UC 
(undifferentiated carcinoma), NKC (nonkeratinizing carcinoma), and SCC (squamous cell 
carcinoma) (Fig. 1) under the WHO classification [7], and previous studies have demonstrated the 
presence of EBV in all the histological types [8,9]. 
One important question concerning to the EBV infection is the mechanism of entry for the 
virus into nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. The biological cycle of the virus begins with the 
introduction of its genetic material into the cell through the CD21 membrane receptor [8,9], which 
is mainly expressed on B lymphocytes [10], although it is also present in human pharyngeal cells 
[11] and in several epithelial cells [8,9]. After binding to CD21, virions are internalized through an 
endocytic process and viral genome is integrated to the cell genome, establishing a lysogenic cycle. 
Occasionally, and by causative factors still under study such as genetic susceptibility and life-style, 
virus can be reactivated starting a lytic cycle that could produce the origin of a malignant disorder 
[12]. 
LMP1 is an integral membrane protein with oncogenic potential encoded by the BNLF-1 
gene (also called LMP1 gene) of EBV [13], and was the first EBV latent gene found to transform 
established rodent cell lines and alter the phenotype of both lymphoid and epithelial cells [14-16]. 
LMP1 is often present in nasopharyngeal carcinomas and was detected in preinvasive lesions of the 
nasopharynx [5]. The frequent expression of LMP1 in undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
indicates a role for this viral oncoprotein as a key effector molecule in NPC pathogenesis. 
Fig. 
1. LMP1, 
Bcl-2, and 
p53 
expression 
in the 
grouped 
NPC 
samples 
and 
separated 
by 
histological 
type. Inset; 
relative 
variation of 
the three  
 
EGFR is a strong prognostic indicator associated with more aggressive disease and reduced 
survival. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; HER1; erbB1) is expressed or highly 
expressed in a variety of human tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), breast, 
head and neck, gastric, colorectal, esophageal, prostate, bladder, renal, pancreatic, and ovarian 
cancers [7]. A variety of techniques may be used to evaluate EGFR at the DNA, RNA, and 
protein levels, as well as the level of receptor activation in situ [8]. This suggests that EGFR 
plays a role in the malignant phenotype [9] and that it should be included as diagnostic marker or 
in prospective studies of these tumors. Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) has 
become a standard detection method for its ability to amplify a spectroscopic signal from an 
enzyme reaction, but certain obstacles have limited its success. These limitations include a lack of 
simple quantitation and excessive time required. Furthermore, chromophore, fluorophore, or 
enzyme tags required for detection can affect the antigen/antibody (Ag/Ab) interaction, and 
nonspecific adsorption of analyte to a hydrophobic well plate can lead to random orientation of 
binding sites and possible denaturation of substrate [10]. 
Efforts to develop a label-free, time-efficient, quantitative assay format that allows for 3D 
substrates, multilayer adsorptions, and nonrigid biological recognition are an area of concentrated 
research interest [11]. For this, two different techniques have been emerged are surface plasmon 
resonance spectroscopy (SPR) and the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). However, compared 
to SPR, some important advantages make QCM an attractive tool for immunosensing. The 
advantages include, very small size, minimal electrical and electronic requirements, adaptability 
to microfluidic techniques, sequential refinement of positive signals and inexpensive fabrication 
as compared to the complicated and expensive optics of commercial SPR [11,12]. Another 
advantage of QCM is the ability to work with 3D substrates and multilayer adsorptions.  
Pierre and Jacques Curie first showed piezoelectric behavior of some materials in 1880. 
They observed that in crystals without symmetrical distribution of electrical charges, the 
application of pressure causes an electrical potential between the deformed surfaces [13]. 
Sauerbrey [14] (1959) investigated the feasibility of using piezoelectric quartz as a means of 
detecting mass change. The equation that he derived describes quantitatively the relationship 
between the shift in frequency and the change in mass of the crystal. In an ideal state, for an 
AT-cut quartz crystal with a known gold area (A) in the gas phase, the equation is: 
 
 
The oscillation frequency (ΔF), calculated respect the fundamental frequency of the 
crystal (F0), is only affected by the addition of the extra mass to the crystal (ΔM). From this, 
substituting for the various constants gives for the quartz, a sensitivity of 10
-9
 g/Hz was calculated. 
The QCM detection principle relies on recording the frequency decrease corresponding to mass 
increase on the chip surface during biological interaction [15]. To implement a 
QCM-immunosensor, antibody has to be immobilized on the crystal surface to capture the target 
compound, i.e. antigen [16]. 
As we discussed, quartz crystal microbalance has been extensively used in the detection of 
various kind of biomolecules. In order to assess the sensitivity of Quartz crystal microbalance 
system to detect EGFR was studied by surface functionalized anti-epidermal growth factor 
receptor. The affinity purified antibody was useful in the detection of EGFR by selective binding. 
 We propose the development of an ultra sensitive method for the detection of the 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) 
measurements as electronic transduction method. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the 
detection of NPC using EQCM.  
The proposed project is aimed to design a highly sensitive detection system for 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In which, the 
potential biomolecule LMP1 of the Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) will be detected by modified 
crystal surface. 
 
OBJECTIVES 
 As NPC is a major concern in china, it would be chosen here as a model system for 
biological detection. Many important physical and chemical processes can be followed by 
observing the associated mass changes. This work will describes the mechanistic investigation of 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Overview of the AT- quartz crystals 
 
The quartz crystal used as a sensor in the EQCM technique is not only sensitive to changes 
in mass of the working electrode. It is also highly sensitive to changes in temperature, pressure 
and viscous loading. Temperature and pressure can be controlled, but the principle of a 
switch-flow cell experiment is to change the electrolyte. Consequently, the changes in viscosity 
have to be compensated for. This can be done by simultaneous recording of the quartz crystal 
resonance frequency and resistance [39]. In the EQCM, the equation of the resonant frequency 
change for mass change has been presented by Sauerbrey equation [40]: 
 
△f = -2f0
2 △m/A (ρqμq)
1/2 
  
In the commonly used case of AT-cut quartz crystals, thickness–shear vibrations in a thin 
quartz plate are induced by means of the piezoelectric effect when an alternating electric field at 
the resonant frequency is applied to the exciting electrodes attached to either side of the plate. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
AT-cut quartz crystals are used as QCMs due to their low temperature co-efficient at room 
temperature with only minimal frequency changes due to temperature in that region, as a 
consequence. The crystals may be rough or smooth, clear or clouded. For the liquid-phase, 
however, optically polished crystals are recommended as liquid can get caught in the crevices of 
rough crystals and sometimes result in spurious frequency changes. The crystal diameter plays an 
important role in stability. Crystals are generally 0.5 inches in diameter, although crystals one 
inch or larger are available. The thickness of the crystal determines the resonant frequency, which 
in turn determines the mass sensitivity. Thinner devices resonate at higher frequencies and are 
more sensitive, but tend, however, to be very fragile.  
 Quartz resonators with fundamental frequencies of 5 and 10 MHz will be used in the 
experimental exploration of energy trapping. The ac excitation for the quartz crystal is generated 
by a TTL digital oscillation circuit. The crystal and its electrodes are incorporated into a 
positive-feedback oscillator circuit. Changes in resonant frequency will be measured using a 
frequency counter. The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance will be connected to the 
auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. Fitting and simulation of the electrochemical data will be calculated by means of the 
Autolab GPES 4.8 and FRA 4.8 or any other suitable softwares. Additionally, a specially 
designed electrochemical capillary microcell will be used to probe the sensitivity of a 5 MHz 
QCM in the presence of a heavy deposit. The deposited mass is calculated using Faraday’s law. 
Admittance changes of the resonator during local deposition will be recorded using a HP 8751 
network analyzer. Deposition of a thin film on the crystal surface decreases the frequency in 
proportion to the mass of the film. A typical experimental apparatus set up is shown in Fig. 5. 
Record of binding of Hb to the DOCA-modified piezosensor by QCN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyclic voltammogram of a DOCA-modified piezosensor before (#1) and after Hb 
adsorption (#2) 
(Scan rate: 2000mVs
−1
; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Square wave voltammograms obtained for HbA0 (#1) and Hb samples containing 20% of 
HbA1c (#2) 
(Scan rate: −500mV to 500mV; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5; f = 
25Hz with an amplitude of 25mV) 
 
Immobilization of the biomolecule on the crystal surface is an important aspect of 
immunosensor development. The immobilization process must guarantee the preservation of the 
biological activity of the biomolecule and a more efficient binding. Several approaches for 
achieving oriented antibody immobilization have been studied and applied to piezoelectric 
immunosensor development. 
 
Steps involved: 
• Modification of the gold electrode surface to create functional groups. 
Monitoring of Hb adsorption 
Measurement of HbA1c 
 
  
 
 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
3.1. Surface modification and activation of the thiol monolayer 
Self-assembled monolayer (SAM) on gold surface has become an increasingly important 
method for molecular immobilization [17]. The response of the QCM sensor to thiosalicylic acid 
of varying time scale was depicted in Fig. 1. Accordingly, Fig. represents the formation of thiol 
monolayer on the gold surface (dot line). The frequency response of a cleaned quartz crystal 
without thiol modification was taken as reference. The bare quartz crystal without monolayer 
formation showed the resonant frequency of 7.994990 Hz in reaction buffer. The addition of 
phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) resulted in minimum frequency shift of 10 Hz, which does not lead to 
any noticeable change in the crystal frequency. Whereas, the crystal treated with TSA showed, the 
initial frequency of 7.994464 Hz. Compared with the resonant frequency of bare gold crystal, the 
observed decrease in resonance frequency attributed the formation of TSA monolayer on the 
quartz crystal. It should be noted that QCM frequency shift analysis confirmed the expected 
binding of the thiol molecules. When the gold-sputtered crystal was immersed in thiol solution, 
the adsorption of organosulfuric compounds on the gold surfaces was by chemisorption via thiol 
groups leaving the carboxyl groups on the crystal-electrode surface [18]. On the other hand, the 
QCM sensor response towards the TSA addition on different time scale showed there is no 
time-dependent frequency decrease and the reaction between thiol group and gold is 
exceptionally specific. The adsorption time of thiol molecule seems to be independent of chain 
length however time is needed to obtain a regular and well organized monolayer. There are two 
reactions proposed to explain the strong and fast reaction between thiol-gold surface, (i) ionic 
dissociation and (ii) radical formation [19]. Immobilization of bio-molecules using cross linking 
procedures like thiols provided a longer sensor lifetime [20]. Following the self-assembled thiol 
monolayer, an activation of the TSA-modified crystal surface was constructed by the addition of 
equi-molar ratio of EDC-NHS, which involves a step-wise formation and replacement of terminal 
prepared by two different patterns (i) chemical cross-linking (ii) protein G mediated site-specific 
antibody immobilization. The representative standard curve for the EGFR detection assay (Fig. 
4-5) was obtained by employing six different individual concentrations which were in the range 
of 0.001 to 20 μg/mL. A linear relationship between Δf (Hz) and different EGFR concentrations 
were obtained for both chemical and site-specific antibody immobilization. In the case of EGFR 
binding on chemically crosslinked antibody, it showed correlation coefficient of 0.9237. The 
correlation coefficient of 0.9827 was observed for the EGFR binding on site-specifically 
immobilized antibody. Antibody on the chemically functionalized electrode surface exhibited 
comparatively lower binding activity f r EGFR with a detection limit of 100 ng/mL (Fig. 4). With 
regard to the magnitude of response and the detection limit, antibody anchored through protein G 
delivered the best result for EGFR binding with a detection limit of 10 ng/mL (Fig. 5). At this 
concentration the piezoelectric immunosensor recorded the frequency difference of 12.57 Hz. The 
lower EGFR binding efficiency in chemical cross-linking was expected because unlike antibody 
on the protein G surface, the number of the antigen binding sites was less and it may be explained 
by random antibody orientation. 
 
3.5. Detection of antigen (EGFR) using antibody functionalized quartz crystal 
Specific detection of EGFR was achieved by QCM sensor using antibody functionalized 
crystal as a change in frequency shift. Fig. 6. showed the dose responses for EGFR concentration 
when antibodies were immobilized on the QCM by two different binding patterns. Among the 
two immobilization patterns, it was considered that the highest sensitivity for EGFR detection 
was achieved when anti-EGFR antibody was immobilized via protein G (Fig. 6). Although the 
concentration of the antibody on the protein G surface was lower than that of chemical 
cross-linking it provides a greaterdegree of orientation for EGFR binding and also displayed a 
good antigen binding ability. The reaction time of antigen-antibody binding reached equilibrium 
in 60 min. The fig. 6. illustrated the change in frequency shift (Δf, Hz) upon binding of EGFR as 
a function of the antigen concentration. When EGFR at a concentration of 1 ng/mL was bound to 
the site-specifically antibody oriented surface, the value of frequency shift was not significantly 
changed (Δf = 0.69 Hz). Whereas, for 10 ng/mL of EGFR, a significant change in frequency shift 
was observed (Δf = 12.57 Hz). Thus, the detection limit of 10 ng/mL of EGFR was achieved. In 
case of antigen binding on chemically immobilized surface, there was no frequency shift 
variation for 1 and 10 ng/mL of EGFR binding. Further, the results of antigen-antibody binding 
implied that antigen binding on sitespecifically antibody was about 10 fold sensitive than antigen 
binding on chemically immobilized antibody. The overall results indicated that the detection limit 
of EGFR by QCM was in the range of 10 ng/mL to 20 μg/mL. The frequency shift conversion to 
mass loading effect of EGFR binding onto antibody immobilized on a chemical and sitespecific 
pattern were explained in Fig. 7-8. The Sauerbrey equation was applied to convert the frequency 
shift (Δf) into mass changes (mass per unit area (Δm/ng/0.02cm2). On the basis of Sauerbrey’s 
equation, delta frequency (Δf) relates directly to the change of mass on the surface of the quartz 
crystal. 
As shown in Fig. 7, the mass loading effect of chemically immobilized antibody probe were 
in the range of 2.41 to 283.74 ng for the antigen concentration of 0.01-20 μg/mL. At 0.001 μg/mL 
concentration, there was no mass loading effect (Δm = 0) and a minimal Δm value was noted for 
sequence of flow-cell QCM immunosensor. Both in situ and ex situ methods were employed for 
this assay. The first self-assembled layer of the QCM gold surface was created by the addition of 
thiosalicylic acid. In order to create a highly organized monolayer on the electrode surface, the 
thiol modifications were done in ex situ. The as prepared QCM probe was introduced into the 
flow-cell system for real time binding. Degassed phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) was then injected into 
the flow modules until stable baseline f was achieved (i.e., signal drift less then 2 Hz/h for the f 
shift). The frequency shifts were calculated as the difference between the two stable frequency 
values. The thiolated crystals were activated with EDC-NHS and the first decrease in frequency 
was noted at 60 min which indicated the formation of active NHS ester on the crystal surface 
(step a). When protein G was injected into the flow cell, substantial decrease in frequency shift 
(60 Hz) was observed (step b). The frequency shifts were return closer to the original baseline 
after rinsing with buffer. The non-reacted binding sites were occupied by the addition of 10 mM 
ethanolamine (step c) which resulted in slight frequency change (10 Hz). Followed by antibody 
binding (step d), any unbound and/or nonspecifically bounded antibody was removed from the 
flow cell by rinsing with buffer and stabilization frequency was achieved (step e). The prepared 
biointerface was equipped to capture the target antigen EGFR. When the antigen is introduced 
into flow cell, a considerable decrease in resonance frequency was noted and it is due to the 
specific binding of antigen (1 μg/mL) to the immobilized antibody on the electrode surface (step 
f). The surface was treated with 100 mM NaOH to break the antibody-antigen complex and 
successful regeneration was obtained (step g). At equilibrium withphosphate buffer, the frequency 
reaches a stable value. The working range of the proposed immunosensor was 1 μg/mL based on 
flow-cell mode and it is still comparable with the other previous reports. The minimum detectable 
range of IgE was 2.5 μg/mL using aptamer-based QCM [25]. 
 
3.9. Electrochemical characterization 
The bare Au electrode and a self-assembled thiol monolayer on the gold surface of the 
quartz crystal were electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. Similarly, activation 
of EDC-NHS by the formation of NHS ester, replacement of active NHS esters by primary 
amines of antibody and binding of antigen onto the immobilized antibodies were subjected to 
electrochemical characterization of the related Au electrode in the presence of 10 mM (Fe(SCN)6 
3-/4-. The cyclic voltammograms were taken before and after each treatment and the results were 
presented in Fig. 12. The pretreated bare Au electrode offered a reversible cyclic voltammogram, 
which indicated the clean unchanged Au surface (curve a). The formation of thiol monolayer on 
the Au electrode provided a highly insulating surface and blocked almost all the faradic currents 
(curve b). Several researchers have also observed the highly insulated gold surface after treatment 
with thiol molecules [26,27]. After activation with EDC/NHS, the thiol monolayer was bit high 
insulating and the current flow was decreased further (curve c). Replacement of the active NHS 
ester by antibody macromolecules reduced the penetration of the redox pair and decreased the 
current response (curve d). Insulation was further improved after binding of the target cells onto 
the immobilized antibodies (curve e). The densely packed thiol molecules on the Au electrode 
resulted in the formation of thick insulating layer (curve b) and hence the subsequent layers on 
the electrode surface did not have much chance to widen the distance of the insulating layer. 
 The surface modification of the quartz crystal followed by the immobilization of antibody 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
SELECTED PUBLICATIONS 
1. Chen, J.-C., Sadhasivam, S., Lin, F.-H. Label free gravimetric detection of epidermal growth 
factor receptor by antibody immobilization on quartz crystal microbalance. Process 
Biochemistry 46 (2), pp. 543-550. (SCI, Impact factor: 2.648, Rank: 17/134) 
2. Savitha, S., Sadhasivam, S., Swaminathan, K., Lin, F.H. Fungal protease: Production, 
purification and compatibility with laundry detergents and their wash performance. 2011, 
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 42 (2), pp. 298-304. (SCI, Impact 
factor: 0.573, Rank: 94/134) 
3. Lin, W. Y., S. Sadhasivam and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The dose dependent effects of betulin on 
porcine chondrocytes." Process Biochemistry 44(6): 678-684. (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
4. Sadhasivam, S., S. Savitha, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "Metabolically inactive 
trichoderma harzianum mediated adsorption of synthetic dyes: Equilibrium and kinetic 
studies." Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 40(4): 394-402. (SCI) 
5. Savitha, S., S. Sadhasivam, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "A prototype of proposed 
treatment plant for sago factory effluent." Journal of Cleaner Production 17(15): 1363-1372. 
(SCI, Rank 14/38, IF: 1.362) 
6. Tseng, C. L., W. Y. Su, K. C. Yen, K. C. Yang and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The use of 
biotinylated-egf-modified gelatin nanoparticle carrier to enhance cisplatin accumulation in 
cancerous lungs via inhalation." Biomaterials 30(20): 3476-3485. (SCI, Rank 1/16, IF: 7.365) 
7. Sadhasivam S., Savitha S., Swaminathan K., FH Lin, 2008, “Production, purification and 
characterization of mid-redox potential laccase from a newly isolated Trichoderma harzianum 
WL1”, PROCESS BIOCHEMISTRY, 43:7:736-742, (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Willner I, Katz E. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:1180. 
[2] Bourdillon C, Demaille C, Moiroux J, Save  ´ant JM.  Acc Chem Res 1996, 29:529. 
[3] Blonder R, Katz E, Cohen Y, Itzhak N, Riklin A, Willner I. Anal Chem 1996, 68: 3151. 
[4] Ben-Dov I, Willner I, Zisman E. Anal Chem 1997, 69:3506. 
[5] Patolsky F, Lichtenstein A, Willner I. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:940. 
[6] Czanderna AW, Lu C, in: Walsky, S.P., Czanderna, A.W. (Eds.), Applications of Piezoelectric 
Quartz Crystal Microbalances. Elsevier, New York, 1984. 
[7] Salomon DS, Brandt R, Ciardiello F et al. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 1995, 19:183. 
[8] Arteaga CL. The Oncologist 2002, 7:31. 
[9] Neal DE, Sharples L, Smith K, Fennely J, Harris AL. Cancer 1990, 65:1619. 
[10] Crowther, J. R. The ELISA Guidebook; Humana Press: Totowa, NJ, 2001; Vol. 149. 
[11] Janshoff A, Galla HJ, Steinem C. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:4004. 
[12] Spangler BD, Boney J, Tyler. Anal Chem Acta 1999, 399: 51-62. 
[13] Adler JF, McCallum J. Analyst 1983, 108:1169–89. 
[14] Sauerbrey GZ. Physik 1959, 91:294. 
[15] Thompson M, Arthur CL, Dhaliwal GK. Anal Chem 1986, 58:1206. 
[16] Storri S, Santoni T, Minunni M, Mascini M. Biosens Bioelectron 1998, 13: 347. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
英文： 
The currently available screening methods for the 
detection of target component of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as HPLC, GC, 
GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first 
isolate the compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go 
to do the bioassay to prove the biological functions. 
However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target 
cells. It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret 
cytokines to further act on the target cells; that causes to 
error screening or miss part of effective compounds from the 
TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, 
sensitive screening system for identifying active target 
molecules from traditional chinese herb medicine using 
surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal 
microbalance. In which, the potential component of the TCM 
will be detected by receptor of interest immobilized on Au 
functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract 
based on the proposed mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr 
compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on 
electronic transduction due to frequency change by molecule 
specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the first report on 
the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM 
device has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical 
quartz crystal microbalance was connected to the auxiliary 
analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the 
electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz 
plate was surface-modified by model compound to catch the 
target drug to the surface. (3) A simple model was used to 
test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM system 
was compared with ELISA method.  
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本計畫已將 EQCM 組裝完成，連接 PGSTAT 同時記錄電流及頻率
變化；石英板表面將固定一 model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限，同時與現
有檢測技術做比較。同時完成將 anti-EGFr antibody 接枝在金箔表
面，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限。最後與 ELISA READER 做比較，結
果優於 ELISA 的效果無論在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能
偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本計畫完成後，新
的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選
出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解
作用機制一機完成之目的，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告撰寫格式 
一、說明 
國科會基於學術公開之立場，鼓勵一般專題研究計畫主持人發表其研究成
果，但主持人對於研究成果之內容應負完全責任。計畫內容及研究成果如涉及
專利或其他智慧財產權、違異現行醫藥衛生規範、影響公序良俗或政治社會安
定等顧慮者，應事先通知國科會不宜將所繳交之成果報告蒐錄於學門成果報告
彙編或公開查詢，以免造成無謂之困擾。另外，各學門在製作成果報告彙編時，
將直接使用主持人提供的成果報告，因此主持人在繳交報告之前，應對內容詳
細校對，以確定其正確性。 
本格式說明僅為統一成果報告之格式，以供撰寫之參考，並非限制研究成
果之呈現方式。精簡報告之篇幅（不含封面之頁數）以 4 至 10 頁為原則，完整
報告之篇幅則不限制頁數。 
成果報告繳交之期限及種類（精簡報告、完整報告或期中報告等），應依本
會補助專題研究計畫作業要點及專題研究計畫經費核定清單之規定辦理。 
二、內容格式：依序為封面、中英文摘要、目錄（精簡報告得省略）、報告內容、參
考文獻、計畫成果自評、可供推廣之研發成果資料表、附錄。 
(一)報告封面：請至本會網站（http：//www.nsc.gov.tw）下載製作（格式如附件一）。 
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)。 
(三)報告內容：請包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含
結論與建議）…等。若該計畫已有論文發表者，可以 A4 紙影印，作為成果
報告內容或附錄，並請註明發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期。若有與執行
本計畫相關之著作、專利、技術報告、或學生畢業論文等，請在參考文獻
內註明之，俾可供進一步查考。 
(四)頁碼編寫：請對摘要及目錄部分用羅馬字 I 、II、 III……標在每頁下方中
央；報告內容至附錄部分請以阿拉伯數字 1.2.3.……順序標在每頁下方中央。 
(五)附表及附圖可列在文中或參考文獻之後，各表、圖請說明內容。 
(六)計畫成果自評部份，請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、
研究成果之學術或應用價值、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要
發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
(七)可供推廣之研發成果資料表：凡研究性質屬應用研究及技術發展之計畫，
請依本會提供之表格（如附件二），每項研發成果填寫一份。 
三、計畫中獲補助國外或大陸地區差旅費、出席國際學術會議差旅費或國際合作研
究計畫差旅費者，須依規定撰寫心得報告，以附件方式併同成果報告繳交，並
請於成果報告封面註記。 
四、打字編印注意事項 
1. 用紙 
使用 A4 紙，即長 29.7 公分，寬 21 公分。 
2. 格式 
中文打字規格為每行繕打（行間不另留間距），英文打字規格為 Single Space。 
3. 字體 
報告之正文以中英文撰寫均可。在字體之使用方面，英文使用 Times New 
Roman Font，中文使用標楷體，字體大小請以 12 號為主。 
中文摘要： 
第一年已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變化；石英板表面將固
定一 model component 自溶液中攝取target component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測
極限，同時與現有檢測技術做比較。第二年已完成將anti-EGFr antibody接枝在金箔表面，檢
測EQCM的偵測極限。本年度計畫將與ELISA READER做比較，結果優於ELISA的效果無論
在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本
計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同
時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，未
來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
 
Abstract： 
The currently available screening methods for the detection of target 
component of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first isolate the 
compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go to do the bioassay to prove the 
biological functions. However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target cells. 
It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret cytokines to further act on the 
target cells; that causes to error screening or miss part of effective compounds from 
the TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, sensitive screening 
system for identifying active target molecules from traditional chinese herb 
medicine using surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In 
which, the potential component of the TCM will be detected by receptor of interest 
immobilized on Au functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract based on the proposed 
mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on electronic transduction due 
to frequency change by molecule specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the 
first report on the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research in the first year was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM device 
has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance 
was connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both 
the electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz plate was 
surface-modified by model compound to catch the target drug to the surface. (3) A 
simple model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM 
system was compared with ELISA method.  
 
analyzed markers related with the histological subtypes of NPC. (*p < 0.05; **p < 0.01, and ***p < 
0.001 under the chi-square test)  
LMP1 functions as a constitutively active tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR), activating 
a number of signaling pathways in a ligand-independent manner [17], and it has been described as a 
potent activator of the NF-κB signaling pathway [18]. The consequences of NF-κB activation are 
numerous and include the up-regulation of anti-apoptotic gene products. These roles suggest that 
LMP1 is, direct or indirectly, a key modulator of the apoptosis process, and it was demonstrated 
that expression of LMP1 is associated with upregulation of Bcl-2 oncogene in human B 
lymphocytes [19]. 
Among the EBV induced latent proteins, LMP-1 is a transmembrane protein that has been 
shown to be essential for EBV-induced immortalization of B cells [20]. The possible signs and 
symptoms of NP cancer include trouble in breathing, speaking or hearing, lump in the nose or neck, 
nose bleeds, etc. Some cases of nasopharyngeal cancer can be found early in the course of the 
disease because they result in symptoms that cause patients to seek medical attention. But over 
80% of patients are in advanced stage when they are diagnosed. This is because most of the time, 
cancer spreads quickly to lymph nodes in the neck before any symptoms occur. There are several 
diagnosis methods are available such as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) positron emission tomography (PET) etc., but they are not useful in the early stage of 
detection. Only ELISA can be used in the early detection of NPC, but it also has some 
characteristic drawback like lower detection limit.  
During the last decades bio-electrochemical devices working as sensors and/or systems 
exploiting bio-electrocatalytic effects have become one of the main topics of experimental and 
theoretical studies in the field [21]. The increased interest in using microbalances has resulted, in 
part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [22]. 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) is a widely used technique for the 
monitoring of electrochemically driven surface compositional changes associated with diverse 
materials and processes [23-26]. The primary attractions of the technique are the generality and 
absolute nature of gravimetric detection, the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the 
megahertz regime and the implicitly of response interpretation. Previously, the use of 
antibody-containing polymers together with pulsed electrochemical detection and flow injection 
analysis (FIA) for detection of proteins and small organic molecules [27-29] has been reported. The 
assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or 
piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the development of biosensors [30], 
Enzyme-layered electrodes [31], antigen (or antibody) layers on electrodes [32] or piezoelectric 
crystals [33] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [34] were reported as active 
sensing interfaces for biosensors. A challenging topic in the development of biosensors relates to 
the sensitivity of the detection methods and to the need to develop amplification schemes for the 
analyses. Amplified electrochemical detection of antibodies or antigens was accomplished by 
coupling enzyme-linked bioelectrocatalytic transformations to the antigen-antibody recognition 
events. Antigens or antibodies were modified with redox enzymes, and the respective antigen or 
antibody was analyzed by competitive association in the presence of the enzyme-labeled antigen 
(or antibody) to the sensing interface and by the monitoring of the current resulting from the 
bioelectrocatalytic transformation [35].  
Bioaffinity sensors, which are based on affinity binding between ligands and biomolecules, 
have a wide range of applications as they can use bioaffinity molecules such as specific antibodies 
raised against specific analytes. The assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on 
electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the 
development of biosensors [1], Enzyme-layered electrodes [2], antigen (or antibody) layers on 
electrodes [3] or piezoelectric crystals [4] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [5] 
were reported as active sensing interfaces for biosensors. The increased interest in using 
microbalances has resulted, in part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [6]. The 
primary attractions of the technique are the generality and absolute nature of gravimetric detection, 
the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the megahertz regime and the implicitly of 
response interpretation. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a rational target
 
for antitumor strategies. 
The EGFR is expressed or highly expressed in a variety of human
 
tumors of epithelial origin. 
antibody–antigen binding using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM). The study 
also aimed to verify the effect of surface reaction and modification on the adsorption of 
biologically important molecule (LMP1). This pattern is of prime importance from the point of 
view of bioelectrochemical reactors and/or sensors. The main objectives of the proposed work are 
listed below; 
1. Precoating of electrode and crystal surface. 
2. Modification of the functional group of the Au surface 
3. Immobilization of EPV specific biomarker LMP1 on the modified crystal surface. 
4. Binding of Ag-Ab complex will be determined by voltammetric indication. 
 
Theory and principles of QCM 
 The theoretical foundation for the use of piezoelectricity was first pioneered by Raleigh in 
1885 [36], but the first thorough investigation was by Jacques and Pierre Curie in 1880 [37]. A 
piezoelectric quartz crystal resonator is a precisely cut slab from a natural or synthetic crystal of 
quartz. A quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) consists of a thin quartz disk with electrodes plated 
on it as can be seen in Fig. 2. Quartz crystal in its perfect natural form can be seen in Fig. 3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Schematic of a typical 
piezoelectric crystal 
The application of an external 
electrical potential to a piezoelectric material produces internal mechanical stress. As the QCM is 
piezoelectric, an oscillating electric field applied across the device induces an acoustic wave that 
propagates through the crystal and meets minimum impedance when the thickness of the device 
is a multiple of a half wavelength of the acoustic wave. A QCM is a shear mode device in which 
the acoustic wave propagates in a direction perpendicular to the crystal surface [38]. To make this 
happen, the quartz crystal plate must be cut to a specific orientation with respect to the crystal 
axes. These cuts belonging to the rotated Y-cut family, the AT- and BT- cuts shown in Fig. 4 are 
representative.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. The assignment of axes to a quartz crystal 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Experimental set up for typical EQCM 
Schematic representation of hemoglobin detection in piezoelectric sensor 
(Hal a´mek et al., 2007), [41]. 
 
              Incubation of glycated hemoglobin (Hb) with  
                  ferroceneboronic acid (FcBA) 
 
 
 
 
 Formation of Hb-FcBA complex 
 
 
 Binding of Hb to the DOCA-    
 modified crystal surface 
 
 Binding of Hb-FcBA complex      
 DOCA-modified piezoelectric        
 quartz crystal 
 
 
 
 
Piezoelectric sensor modified with the surfactant DOCA for the quantification of HbA and 
glycated fraction of Hb (HbA1c) 
 
 
 
 
Total Hb 
A. Injection of Hb 
B. Washing with Sorensen phosphate buffer ( pH 7.5) 
R.  5 min regeneration using pepsin solution 
 
The dotted line represents the baseline of the piezoelectric 
quartz crystal 
• Binding of biomolecules via covalent attachment to the surface. 
• Frequency shift analysis by QCM 
Flow chart of the experimental plan 
Quartz crystal was pre-treated by soaking in 1.2 M NaOH for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
Soaked in 1.2M HCl for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
20 µL of concentrated HCl was spread on the gold electrode of the crystal for 1 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
The crystal was then rinsed with absolute ethanol and distilled water and air-dried 
 
 
The cleaned crystal was submerged into the 10mM thiosalicylic acid (prepared in absolute 
ethanol) for 24 h 
 
 (Rinsed with absolute ethanol, and reaction buffer) 
100 µL each of 46mM EDC and 46mM NHS were consecutively placed over the crystal surface 
and were left to react on the crystal surface for 1 h. 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
20 µl of the EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1h 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
The free carboxyl surface was blocked with 100 µl of a 10 mM ethanolamine for 1 h  
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
100 µl of the anti-EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1 h 
 
 
Schematic representation of biomolecule immobilized on the gold surface 
 
 
 
 
 
(Thiosalicylic acid) 
 
 
 
 
EDC and NHS in sequence to form an NHS ester. The transformed carboxyl group to NHS ester 
group has made the electrode surface more hydrophobic. The frequency shift attained by the 
addition of EDC-NHS was reported in Table 1. 
 
3.2. Direct coupling of antibody immobilization on thiol functionalized crystal 
Optimal conditions for antibody immobilization were investigated after varying the antibody 
(anti-EGFR) concentrations on the crystal activated with EDC-NHS to perform antibody 
calibration curve (Fig. 2). The anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody was directed against human 
EGFR and reacts with wild-type EGFR at the molecular weight of 170 kDa. This antibody detects 
both non-phosphorylated and phosphorylated EGFR at residue Y1197. The variation of 
oscillation frequency vs. different antibody concentration was obtained by adding progressively 
higher amounts of anti-EGFR to the TSAEDC/NHS modified crystal. Each antibody was 
immobilized on the QCM by chemical coupling. The active NHS ester is replaced by the primary 
amines of the antibody and the antibody is thus immobilized through the amide bond. The 
immobilization time was optimized at 90 min. From the results of Fig. 2, frequency shift (Δf/Hz) 
was found to be higher at increased antibody concentration and decreased at an optimal 
concentration of 80 μg/mL. The non-specifically bounded antibody may also contribute to some 
frequency shift, however it was removed during washing with phosphate buffer. Excess of 
antibody concentration on QCM sensor resulted in aggregation among antibody molecules when 
the antibody was immobilized, which resulted in decreased detection range [21]. Hence the 80 
μg/mL antibody concentration was selected for antigen detection. 
 
3.3. Antibody immobilization via protein G coupling 
One of the most important aspects in the design of immunosensor is the proper choice of 
immobilization method that will retain the activity of an antibody molecule [22]. In the present 
study, we used genetically engineered truncated protein G for improved surface orientation of 
antibody immobilization. Because, protein G can bind to the Fc domain of the antibody and thus 
allowed antibody immobilization with a homogenous oriented configuration. In this way, both of 
the binding sites (Fab domains) of the antibody were exposed in solution to increase the 
probability of antigen binding. Fig. 3, shows the QCM frequency variation during the addition of 
various concentrations of antibody on the protein G immobilized crystal. The observed frequency 
shifts were 48.5, 175.8, 294.3, 301.5, 295.1 and 286.2 Hz, respectively for 0.1, 1.0, 20, 40, 60, 80 
and 100 μg/mL of antibody. Based on the frequency shift analysis it was found that as the 
antibody concentration increased, the Δf was also increased. It was found that, antibody got 
saturated at a concentration of 40 μg/mL. To provide a reasonable signal with minimal usage of 
anti-EGFR, a preliminary concentration of 40 μg/mL was preferred for further experiments. 
Beyond this level, the frequency change was independent of antibody concentration which 
indicates the binding of antibody to the protein G anchored surfaces. Furthermore, compared to 
the direct antibody immobilization (Fig. 2), antibody immobilization through protein G requires 
very less amount of antibody on the surface to capture the analyte. 
 
3.4. Calibration curve and EGFR binding 
The standard curves for different concentration of EGFR on the electrode surface was 
0.01 μg/mL as 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2. However, it gives a steady response for EGFR concentration 
ranging from 0.1 to 20 μg/mL. The mass loading effect of EGFR binding on site-specific 
antibody probe was specified in Fig. 8. Since, the 1 Hz frequency shift could be considered as the 
signal limit (fluctuation of the quartz crystal was less than 1 Hz in atmosphere), then the limit of 
detection of this QCM sensor to EGFR antigen at the concentration of 0.001 μg/mL (0.69 Hz) is 
not valid in site-specific antibody probing. A least mass loading effect (Δm) of 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2 
was observed for 0.01 μg/mL of EGFR; whereas a highest Δm was noted for 20 μg/mL as 283.7 
ng/0.02 cm2. Furthermore, mass responses generated by the selective layers depend on analyte 
concentration [23]. In our case, improved mass response ratio was accomplished by sitespecific 
antibody layer. 
 
3.6. Specificity of the immunosensor 
The selectivity of the QCM immunosensor was evaluated by assessing its response to 
several analyte-related compounds [24]. One of the greatest challenge in protein microarray is 
nonspecific protein binding resulting in high signal backgrounds and therefore decreasing assay 
sensitivity [25]. The specificity of the fabricated immunosensor was evaluated by testing the 
sensor surface coated with anti-EGFR to other proteins such as BSA and HSA at an concentration 
of 5 mg/mL using the dip-anddry procedure. The interfering proteins were chosen to cover the 
range of possibleinterfering molecules in the human serum. The frequency results indicated that 
there was no significant frequency decrease upon the addition of BSA and HSA to the sensor 
surface (Fig. 9). The QCM biosensor had a distinct response to EGFR antigen, 197.2 ±4.74 Hz 
(n=3, ± S.D) to 20 μg/mL, but had modest response to BSA and HSA. For BSA and HSA, the 
observed frequency changes were 4.16 ± 1.18 Hz and 3.85 ± 1.70 Hz, respectively. It was further 
indicated that the proposed immunosensor had a specific affinity to its corresponding antigen 
(EGFR) and not for other non-specific proteins. Specificity of the sensor chip is a crucial factor in 
the development of detection tools [20]. 
 
3.7. Regeneration of EGFR sensor 
The regeneration of binding surfaces is more important for reusable biosensors but it is often 
difficult to achieve [25]. Regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH assured effective desorption of EGFR 
from EGFR-anti EGFR conjugate complexes. For chemical immobilization, the QCM sensor 
suffered a significant decrease in frequency shift after the second cycle of regeneration. The 
relative frequency shifts at 3rd and 5th cycles were 16 and 4.4 % respectively. Nevertheless, 
site-specifically immobilized QCM crystal demonstrated a reasonable frequency shift till the 4th 
cycle of regeneration (43 %) and showed a variation in frequency shift till 6 cycles of 
regeneration (Fig. 10). Sensor chips made by immobilizing antibody via protein G appeared to be 
stable enough to withstand regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH for 4 times and to be more effective 
than sensor chips prepared by antibody immobilization using chemical cross-linking. One of the 
main advantages of piezoelectric immunosensors upon other immunological techniques relies 
on their ability to be reused as many assay cycles as possible [24]. 
 
3.8. Flow-cell analysis 
Fig. 11, shows the typical binding response of the resonance frequency during the injection 
was confirmed by the frequency shift analysis. Based on the results it was observed that the 
anti-EGFR was successfully immobilized on the surface modified crystal and it is able to 
determine the EGFR under the tested conditions. There are five different steps involved in the 
present study and are given below; that was listed as 6 figures in the first year report: 
Step 1: Surface modification of gold layered quartz crystal by TSA  
Step 2: Activation of terminal carboxyl group by EDC-NHS  
Step 3: Immobilization of anti-EGFR on the carboxylated surface 
Step 4: Blocking the free carboxyl group by Ethanolamine 
Step: Binding of EGFR to the immobilized anti-EGFR 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
 In the 3-year project, we successfully to setup a lab-scale EQCM system, to immobilize 
anti-EFGr antibody to the gold film of quartz plate, to measure the possibility to be drug screen 
and for cancer detection, and to use it to compare with the ELISA in accuracy/efficiency. The 
following conclusions were drawn from the present investigation. The modification of gold 
surface of quartz crystal with a self assembled thiol monolayer was effectively constructed using 
TSA and activated by EDC-NHS. Two different antibody immobilization strategies were tested in 
this work. Antibody binding pattern indicated that immobilization via protein G was better 
positioned for antigen binding than randomly orientated antibodies. A linear relationship that 
existed between frequency shift and the EGFR concentration from 0.01 to 10 μg/mL was 
established. Regeneration results suggests that antibody immobilization via chemical 
cross-linking is not suitable for regeneration processes. Further, this type of immobilization is not 
valid for small scale binding of antigen (10 ng). In both cases, the loss of sensitivity may be 
explained by consecutive treatment with NaOH results in the decrease of antigen binding sites. A 
real time flow cell analysis was compatible to automation; although it had a relative low 
sensitivity compared to the dip-and-dry method (1 μg/mL). The sensor fabrication and antigen 
binding is electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. The proposed QCM 
immunosensor is suitable for sensitive and specific detection of proteins that are of clinical 
interest. To further exploit these possibilities, the current research is focused on the detection of 
EGFR in human serum. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
v 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98年 11月 25日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快
速篩選 
計畫主持人： 林峰輝        
計畫編號：             學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱 石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
發明人/創作人  林峰輝 
技術說明 
中文： 
 
目前從傳統中藥篩選有效藥物或分子的方法，如  ELISA, 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS 或 SPR等，通常步驟繁瑣、費時、費力，相
當沒有效率。這些方法通常需要粗萃取物先進行HPLC分離，將所
分離出之分子，再去作生物效應檢測(bioassay)，有效之後再去作進
一步的分離。這些方法除了費時及步驟繁瑣外，有時因中藥的作用
機制並不是在標的細胞(target cell)上，常常先刺激某一細胞分泌出
細胞激素，再作用在標的細胞上，如果用上述方法篩選，常會錯失
篩選出有效的分子。 
 
本計畫擬發展出一套有效、靈敏、省時省力的方法，自中藥萃
取有效分子，表面修飾電化學石英微天平，因應擬萃取分子與表面
修飾石英板之作用(specific binding)，達到篩選、富集及瞭解藥物作
用機制一次達成的目的，尤其是針對抗癌藥物的篩選。 
 
已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變
化；石英板表面將固定一  model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測極限，同時與現有
檢測技術做比較。本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出
來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用
機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如
果偵測極限可達ng/ml，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
（100~500字） 
附件二 
技術特點 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance was 
connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in 
order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. The quartz plate was surface-modified by model 
compound to catch the target drug to the surface. A simple 
model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of 
the EQCM system was compared with ELISA method. 
推廣及運用的價值 
本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、
低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、
分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如果偵測極限可達
ng/ml，未來可用於各種疾病的早期篩選上。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
v 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
期末報告 
表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
 
 
計畫類別：v 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-009-MY3 
執行期間： 2008/08/01 ~ 2011/07/31 
 
計畫主持人：林峰輝 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：v精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 v二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台大醫學工程學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 100 年 11月 25 日 
附件一 
INTRODUCTION 
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissues 
of nasopharynx. Ethnic background (Chinese or Asian ancestry) and exposure to the Epstein-Barr 
virus (EBV) can affect the risk of developing nasopharyngeal cancer. The overall incidence of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma is highest in china [1]. Epstein-Barr virus is potentially oncogenic 
human herpes virus capable of infecting lymphoid and epithelial cells. Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is 
a prototype of gamma herpes virus that infects approximately 90% of the population worldwide [2]. 
Primary infection normally occurs in early childhood, is usually asymptomatic and results in 
life-long virus persistence, but when exposure is delayed until adolescence, infection 
mononucleosis often ensues provoking an infection during early adulthood. EBV has a strong 
tropism for human lymphocytes and for the epithelium of the upper respiratory tract, where it can 
remain latent [3]. This virus has been associated with different neoplastic diseases, like polyclonal 
B lymphoproliferation in immunosuppressed patients, Burkitt lymphoma or Hodgkin’s disease [4]. 
However, the tumor showing the strongest worldwide association with EBV is nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC) [5], but the viral mechanisms of pathogenesis in the NPC are a recurrent theme of 
debate.  
Epstein–Barr virus was the first human virus identified to be associated with human cancers, 
including lymphomas as well as epithelial tumors [6]. The association between EBV infection and 
NPC is well documented and particularly close with EBV genome present in virtually all NPC cells. 
NPC is a tumoral entity with a complex carcinogenic pattern with different histological types: UC 
(undifferentiated carcinoma), NKC (nonkeratinizing carcinoma), and SCC (squamous cell 
carcinoma) (Fig. 1) under the WHO classification [7], and previous studies have demonstrated the 
presence of EBV in all the histological types [8,9]. 
One important question concerning to the EBV infection is the mechanism of entry for the 
virus into nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. The biological cycle of the virus begins with the 
introduction of its genetic material into the cell through the CD21 membrane receptor [8,9], which 
is mainly expressed on B lymphocytes [10], although it is also present in human pharyngeal cells 
[11] and in several epithelial cells [8,9]. After binding to CD21, virions are internalized through an 
endocytic process and viral genome is integrated to the cell genome, establishing a lysogenic cycle. 
Occasionally, and by causative factors still under study such as genetic susceptibility and life-style, 
virus can be reactivated starting a lytic cycle that could produce the origin of a malignant disorder 
[12]. 
LMP1 is an integral membrane protein with oncogenic potential encoded by the BNLF-1 
gene (also called LMP1 gene) of EBV [13], and was the first EBV latent gene found to transform 
established rodent cell lines and alter the phenotype of both lymphoid and epithelial cells [14-16]. 
LMP1 is often present in nasopharyngeal carcinomas and was detected in preinvasive lesions of the 
nasopharynx [5]. The frequent expression of LMP1 in undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
indicates a role for this viral oncoprotein as a key effector molecule in NPC pathogenesis. 
Fig. 
1. LMP1, 
Bcl-2, and 
p53 
expression 
in the 
grouped 
NPC 
samples 
and 
separated 
by 
histological 
type. Inset; 
relative 
variation of 
the three  
 
EGFR is a strong prognostic indicator associated with more aggressive disease and reduced 
survival. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; HER1; erbB1) is expressed or highly 
expressed in a variety of human tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), breast, 
head and neck, gastric, colorectal, esophageal, prostate, bladder, renal, pancreatic, and ovarian 
cancers [7]. A variety of techniques may be used to evaluate EGFR at the DNA, RNA, and 
protein levels, as well as the level of receptor activation in situ [8]. This suggests that EGFR 
plays a role in the malignant phenotype [9] and that it should be included as diagnostic marker or 
in prospective studies of these tumors. Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) has 
become a standard detection method for its ability to amplify a spectroscopic signal from an 
enzyme reaction, but certain obstacles have limited its success. These limitations include a lack of 
simple quantitation and excessive time required. Furthermore, chromophore, fluorophore, or 
enzyme tags required for detection can affect the antigen/antibody (Ag/Ab) interaction, and 
nonspecific adsorption of analyte to a hydrophobic well plate can lead to random orientation of 
binding sites and possible denaturation of substrate [10]. 
Efforts to develop a label-free, time-efficient, quantitative assay format that allows for 3D 
substrates, multilayer adsorptions, and nonrigid biological recognition are an area of concentrated 
research interest [11]. For this, two different techniques have been emerged are surface plasmon 
resonance spectroscopy (SPR) and the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). However, compared 
to SPR, some important advantages make QCM an attractive tool for immunosensing. The 
advantages include, very small size, minimal electrical and electronic requirements, adaptability 
to microfluidic techniques, sequential refinement of positive signals and inexpensive fabrication 
as compared to the complicated and expensive optics of commercial SPR [11,12]. Another 
advantage of QCM is the ability to work with 3D substrates and multilayer adsorptions.  
Pierre and Jacques Curie first showed piezoelectric behavior of some materials in 1880. 
They observed that in crystals without symmetrical distribution of electrical charges, the 
application of pressure causes an electrical potential between the deformed surfaces [13]. 
Sauerbrey [14] (1959) investigated the feasibility of using piezoelectric quartz as a means of 
detecting mass change. The equation that he derived describes quantitatively the relationship 
between the shift in frequency and the change in mass of the crystal. In an ideal state, for an 
AT-cut quartz crystal with a known gold area (A) in the gas phase, the equation is: 
 
 
The oscillation frequency (ΔF), calculated respect the fundamental frequency of the 
crystal (F0), is only affected by the addition of the extra mass to the crystal (ΔM). From this, 
substituting for the various constants gives for the quartz, a sensitivity of 10
-9
 g/Hz was calculated. 
The QCM detection principle relies on recording the frequency decrease corresponding to mass 
increase on the chip surface during biological interaction [15]. To implement a 
QCM-immunosensor, antibody has to be immobilized on the crystal surface to capture the target 
compound, i.e. antigen [16]. 
As we discussed, quartz crystal microbalance has been extensively used in the detection of 
various kind of biomolecules. In order to assess the sensitivity of Quartz crystal microbalance 
system to detect EGFR was studied by surface functionalized anti-epidermal growth factor 
receptor. The affinity purified antibody was useful in the detection of EGFR by selective binding. 
 We propose the development of an ultra sensitive method for the detection of the 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) 
measurements as electronic transduction method. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the 
detection of NPC using EQCM.  
The proposed project is aimed to design a highly sensitive detection system for 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In which, the 
potential biomolecule LMP1 of the Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) will be detected by modified 
crystal surface. 
 
OBJECTIVES 
 As NPC is a major concern in china, it would be chosen here as a model system for 
biological detection. Many important physical and chemical processes can be followed by 
observing the associated mass changes. This work will describes the mechanistic investigation of 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Overview of the AT- quartz crystals 
 
The quartz crystal used as a sensor in the EQCM technique is not only sensitive to changes 
in mass of the working electrode. It is also highly sensitive to changes in temperature, pressure 
and viscous loading. Temperature and pressure can be controlled, but the principle of a 
switch-flow cell experiment is to change the electrolyte. Consequently, the changes in viscosity 
have to be compensated for. This can be done by simultaneous recording of the quartz crystal 
resonance frequency and resistance [39]. In the EQCM, the equation of the resonant frequency 
change for mass change has been presented by Sauerbrey equation [40]: 
 
△f = -2f0
2 △m/A (ρqμq)
1/2 
  
In the commonly used case of AT-cut quartz crystals, thickness–shear vibrations in a thin 
quartz plate are induced by means of the piezoelectric effect when an alternating electric field at 
the resonant frequency is applied to the exciting electrodes attached to either side of the plate. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
AT-cut quartz crystals are used as QCMs due to their low temperature co-efficient at room 
temperature with only minimal frequency changes due to temperature in that region, as a 
consequence. The crystals may be rough or smooth, clear or clouded. For the liquid-phase, 
however, optically polished crystals are recommended as liquid can get caught in the crevices of 
rough crystals and sometimes result in spurious frequency changes. The crystal diameter plays an 
important role in stability. Crystals are generally 0.5 inches in diameter, although crystals one 
inch or larger are available. The thickness of the crystal determines the resonant frequency, which 
in turn determines the mass sensitivity. Thinner devices resonate at higher frequencies and are 
more sensitive, but tend, however, to be very fragile.  
 Quartz resonators with fundamental frequencies of 5 and 10 MHz will be used in the 
experimental exploration of energy trapping. The ac excitation for the quartz crystal is generated 
by a TTL digital oscillation circuit. The crystal and its electrodes are incorporated into a 
positive-feedback oscillator circuit. Changes in resonant frequency will be measured using a 
frequency counter. The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance will be connected to the 
auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. Fitting and simulation of the electrochemical data will be calculated by means of the 
Autolab GPES 4.8 and FRA 4.8 or any other suitable softwares. Additionally, a specially 
designed electrochemical capillary microcell will be used to probe the sensitivity of a 5 MHz 
QCM in the presence of a heavy deposit. The deposited mass is calculated using Faraday’s law. 
Admittance changes of the resonator during local deposition will be recorded using a HP 8751 
network analyzer. Deposition of a thin film on the crystal surface decreases the frequency in 
proportion to the mass of the film. A typical experimental apparatus set up is shown in Fig. 5. 
Record of binding of Hb to the DOCA-modified piezosensor by QCN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyclic voltammogram of a DOCA-modified piezosensor before (#1) and after Hb 
adsorption (#2) 
(Scan rate: 2000mVs
−1
; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Square wave voltammograms obtained for HbA0 (#1) and Hb samples containing 20% of 
HbA1c (#2) 
(Scan rate: −500mV to 500mV; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5; f = 
25Hz with an amplitude of 25mV) 
 
Immobilization of the biomolecule on the crystal surface is an important aspect of 
immunosensor development. The immobilization process must guarantee the preservation of the 
biological activity of the biomolecule and a more efficient binding. Several approaches for 
achieving oriented antibody immobilization have been studied and applied to piezoelectric 
immunosensor development. 
 
Steps involved: 
• Modification of the gold electrode surface to create functional groups. 
Monitoring of Hb adsorption 
Measurement of HbA1c 
 
  
 
 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
3.1. Surface modification and activation of the thiol monolayer 
Self-assembled monolayer (SAM) on gold surface has become an increasingly important 
method for molecular immobilization [17]. The response of the QCM sensor to thiosalicylic acid 
of varying time scale was depicted in Fig. 1. Accordingly, Fig. represents the formation of thiol 
monolayer on the gold surface (dot line). The frequency response of a cleaned quartz crystal 
without thiol modification was taken as reference. The bare quartz crystal without monolayer 
formation showed the resonant frequency of 7.994990 Hz in reaction buffer. The addition of 
phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) resulted in minimum frequency shift of 10 Hz, which does not lead to 
any noticeable change in the crystal frequency. Whereas, the crystal treated with TSA showed, the 
initial frequency of 7.994464 Hz. Compared with the resonant frequency of bare gold crystal, the 
observed decrease in resonance frequency attributed the formation of TSA monolayer on the 
quartz crystal. It should be noted that QCM frequency shift analysis confirmed the expected 
binding of the thiol molecules. When the gold-sputtered crystal was immersed in thiol solution, 
the adsorption of organosulfuric compounds on the gold surfaces was by chemisorption via thiol 
groups leaving the carboxyl groups on the crystal-electrode surface [18]. On the other hand, the 
QCM sensor response towards the TSA addition on different time scale showed there is no 
time-dependent frequency decrease and the reaction between thiol group and gold is 
exceptionally specific. The adsorption time of thiol molecule seems to be independent of chain 
length however time is needed to obtain a regular and well organized monolayer. There are two 
reactions proposed to explain the strong and fast reaction between thiol-gold surface, (i) ionic 
dissociation and (ii) radical formation [19]. Immobilization of bio-molecules using cross linking 
procedures like thiols provided a longer sensor lifetime [20]. Following the self-assembled thiol 
monolayer, an activation of the TSA-modified crystal surface was constructed by the addition of 
equi-molar ratio of EDC-NHS, which involves a step-wise formation and replacement of terminal 
prepared by two different patterns (i) chemical cross-linking (ii) protein G mediated site-specific 
antibody immobilization. The representative standard curve for the EGFR detection assay (Fig. 
4-5) was obtained by employing six different individual concentrations which were in the range 
of 0.001 to 20 μg/mL. A linear relationship between Δf (Hz) and different EGFR concentrations 
were obtained for both chemical and site-specific antibody immobilization. In the case of EGFR 
binding on chemically crosslinked antibody, it showed correlation coefficient of 0.9237. The 
correlation coefficient of 0.9827 was observed for the EGFR binding on site-specifically 
immobilized antibody. Antibody on the chemically functionalized electrode surface exhibited 
comparatively lower binding activity f r EGFR with a detection limit of 100 ng/mL (Fig. 4). With 
regard to the magnitude of response and the detection limit, antibody anchored through protein G 
delivered the best result for EGFR binding with a detection limit of 10 ng/mL (Fig. 5). At this 
concentration the piezoelectric immunosensor recorded the frequency difference of 12.57 Hz. The 
lower EGFR binding efficiency in chemical cross-linking was expected because unlike antibody 
on the protein G surface, the number of the antigen binding sites was less and it may be explained 
by random antibody orientation. 
 
3.5. Detection of antigen (EGFR) using antibody functionalized quartz crystal 
Specific detection of EGFR was achieved by QCM sensor using antibody functionalized 
crystal as a change in frequency shift. Fig. 6. showed the dose responses for EGFR concentration 
when antibodies were immobilized on the QCM by two different binding patterns. Among the 
two immobilization patterns, it was considered that the highest sensitivity for EGFR detection 
was achieved when anti-EGFR antibody was immobilized via protein G (Fig. 6). Although the 
concentration of the antibody on the protein G surface was lower than that of chemical 
cross-linking it provides a greaterdegree of orientation for EGFR binding and also displayed a 
good antigen binding ability. The reaction time of antigen-antibody binding reached equilibrium 
in 60 min. The fig. 6. illustrated the change in frequency shift (Δf, Hz) upon binding of EGFR as 
a function of the antigen concentration. When EGFR at a concentration of 1 ng/mL was bound to 
the site-specifically antibody oriented surface, the value of frequency shift was not significantly 
changed (Δf = 0.69 Hz). Whereas, for 10 ng/mL of EGFR, a significant change in frequency shift 
was observed (Δf = 12.57 Hz). Thus, the detection limit of 10 ng/mL of EGFR was achieved. In 
case of antigen binding on chemically immobilized surface, there was no frequency shift 
variation for 1 and 10 ng/mL of EGFR binding. Further, the results of antigen-antibody binding 
implied that antigen binding on sitespecifically antibody was about 10 fold sensitive than antigen 
binding on chemically immobilized antibody. The overall results indicated that the detection limit 
of EGFR by QCM was in the range of 10 ng/mL to 20 μg/mL. The frequency shift conversion to 
mass loading effect of EGFR binding onto antibody immobilized on a chemical and sitespecific 
pattern were explained in Fig. 7-8. The Sauerbrey equation was applied to convert the frequency 
shift (Δf) into mass changes (mass per unit area (Δm/ng/0.02cm2). On the basis of Sauerbrey’s 
equation, delta frequency (Δf) relates directly to the change of mass on the surface of the quartz 
crystal. 
As shown in Fig. 7, the mass loading effect of chemically immobilized antibody probe were 
in the range of 2.41 to 283.74 ng for the antigen concentration of 0.01-20 μg/mL. At 0.001 μg/mL 
concentration, there was no mass loading effect (Δm = 0) and a minimal Δm value was noted for 
sequence of flow-cell QCM immunosensor. Both in situ and ex situ methods were employed for 
this assay. The first self-assembled layer of the QCM gold surface was created by the addition of 
thiosalicylic acid. In order to create a highly organized monolayer on the electrode surface, the 
thiol modifications were done in ex situ. The as prepared QCM probe was introduced into the 
flow-cell system for real time binding. Degassed phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) was then injected into 
the flow modules until stable baseline f was achieved (i.e., signal drift less then 2 Hz/h for the f 
shift). The frequency shifts were calculated as the difference between the two stable frequency 
values. The thiolated crystals were activated with EDC-NHS and the first decrease in frequency 
was noted at 60 min which indicated the formation of active NHS ester on the crystal surface 
(step a). When protein G was injected into the flow cell, substantial decrease in frequency shift 
(60 Hz) was observed (step b). The frequency shifts were return closer to the original baseline 
after rinsing with buffer. The non-reacted binding sites were occupied by the addition of 10 mM 
ethanolamine (step c) which resulted in slight frequency change (10 Hz). Followed by antibody 
binding (step d), any unbound and/or nonspecifically bounded antibody was removed from the 
flow cell by rinsing with buffer and stabilization frequency was achieved (step e). The prepared 
biointerface was equipped to capture the target antigen EGFR. When the antigen is introduced 
into flow cell, a considerable decrease in resonance frequency was noted and it is due to the 
specific binding of antigen (1 μg/mL) to the immobilized antibody on the electrode surface (step 
f). The surface was treated with 100 mM NaOH to break the antibody-antigen complex and 
successful regeneration was obtained (step g). At equilibrium withphosphate buffer, the frequency 
reaches a stable value. The working range of the proposed immunosensor was 1 μg/mL based on 
flow-cell mode and it is still comparable with the other previous reports. The minimum detectable 
range of IgE was 2.5 μg/mL using aptamer-based QCM [25]. 
 
3.9. Electrochemical characterization 
The bare Au electrode and a self-assembled thiol monolayer on the gold surface of the 
quartz crystal were electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. Similarly, activation 
of EDC-NHS by the formation of NHS ester, replacement of active NHS esters by primary 
amines of antibody and binding of antigen onto the immobilized antibodies were subjected to 
electrochemical characterization of the related Au electrode in the presence of 10 mM (Fe(SCN)6 
3-/4-. The cyclic voltammograms were taken before and after each treatment and the results were 
presented in Fig. 12. The pretreated bare Au electrode offered a reversible cyclic voltammogram, 
which indicated the clean unchanged Au surface (curve a). The formation of thiol monolayer on 
the Au electrode provided a highly insulating surface and blocked almost all the faradic currents 
(curve b). Several researchers have also observed the highly insulated gold surface after treatment 
with thiol molecules [26,27]. After activation with EDC/NHS, the thiol monolayer was bit high 
insulating and the current flow was decreased further (curve c). Replacement of the active NHS 
ester by antibody macromolecules reduced the penetration of the redox pair and decreased the 
current response (curve d). Insulation was further improved after binding of the target cells onto 
the immobilized antibodies (curve e). The densely packed thiol molecules on the Au electrode 
resulted in the formation of thick insulating layer (curve b) and hence the subsequent layers on 
the electrode surface did not have much chance to widen the distance of the insulating layer. 
 The surface modification of the quartz crystal followed by the immobilization of antibody 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
SELECTED PUBLICATIONS 
1. Chen, J.-C., Sadhasivam, S., Lin, F.-H. Label free gravimetric detection of epidermal growth 
factor receptor by antibody immobilization on quartz crystal microbalance. Process 
Biochemistry 46 (2), pp. 543-550. (SCI, Impact factor: 2.648, Rank: 17/134) 
2. Savitha, S., Sadhasivam, S., Swaminathan, K., Lin, F.H. Fungal protease: Production, 
purification and compatibility with laundry detergents and their wash performance. 2011, 
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 42 (2), pp. 298-304. (SCI, Impact 
factor: 0.573, Rank: 94/134) 
3. Lin, W. Y., S. Sadhasivam and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The dose dependent effects of betulin on 
porcine chondrocytes." Process Biochemistry 44(6): 678-684. (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
4. Sadhasivam, S., S. Savitha, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "Metabolically inactive 
trichoderma harzianum mediated adsorption of synthetic dyes: Equilibrium and kinetic 
studies." Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 40(4): 394-402. (SCI) 
5. Savitha, S., S. Sadhasivam, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "A prototype of proposed 
treatment plant for sago factory effluent." Journal of Cleaner Production 17(15): 1363-1372. 
(SCI, Rank 14/38, IF: 1.362) 
6. Tseng, C. L., W. Y. Su, K. C. Yen, K. C. Yang and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The use of 
biotinylated-egf-modified gelatin nanoparticle carrier to enhance cisplatin accumulation in 
cancerous lungs via inhalation." Biomaterials 30(20): 3476-3485. (SCI, Rank 1/16, IF: 7.365) 
7. Sadhasivam S., Savitha S., Swaminathan K., FH Lin, 2008, “Production, purification and 
characterization of mid-redox potential laccase from a newly isolated Trichoderma harzianum 
WL1”, PROCESS BIOCHEMISTRY, 43:7:736-742, (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Willner I, Katz E. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:1180. 
[2] Bourdillon C, Demaille C, Moiroux J, Save  ´ant JM.  Acc Chem Res 1996, 29:529. 
[3] Blonder R, Katz E, Cohen Y, Itzhak N, Riklin A, Willner I. Anal Chem 1996, 68: 3151. 
[4] Ben-Dov I, Willner I, Zisman E. Anal Chem 1997, 69:3506. 
[5] Patolsky F, Lichtenstein A, Willner I. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:940. 
[6] Czanderna AW, Lu C, in: Walsky, S.P., Czanderna, A.W. (Eds.), Applications of Piezoelectric 
Quartz Crystal Microbalances. Elsevier, New York, 1984. 
[7] Salomon DS, Brandt R, Ciardiello F et al. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 1995, 19:183. 
[8] Arteaga CL. The Oncologist 2002, 7:31. 
[9] Neal DE, Sharples L, Smith K, Fennely J, Harris AL. Cancer 1990, 65:1619. 
[10] Crowther, J. R. The ELISA Guidebook; Humana Press: Totowa, NJ, 2001; Vol. 149. 
[11] Janshoff A, Galla HJ, Steinem C. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:4004. 
[12] Spangler BD, Boney J, Tyler. Anal Chem Acta 1999, 399: 51-62. 
[13] Adler JF, McCallum J. Analyst 1983, 108:1169–89. 
[14] Sauerbrey GZ. Physik 1959, 91:294. 
[15] Thompson M, Arthur CL, Dhaliwal GK. Anal Chem 1986, 58:1206. 
[16] Storri S, Santoni T, Minunni M, Mascini M. Biosens Bioelectron 1998, 13: 347. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
英文： 
The currently available screening methods for the 
detection of target component of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as HPLC, GC, 
GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first 
isolate the compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go 
to do the bioassay to prove the biological functions. 
However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target 
cells. It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret 
cytokines to further act on the target cells; that causes to 
error screening or miss part of effective compounds from the 
TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, 
sensitive screening system for identifying active target 
molecules from traditional chinese herb medicine using 
surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal 
microbalance. In which, the potential component of the TCM 
will be detected by receptor of interest immobilized on Au 
functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract 
based on the proposed mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr 
compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on 
electronic transduction due to frequency change by molecule 
specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the first report on 
the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM 
device has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical 
quartz crystal microbalance was connected to the auxiliary 
analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the 
electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz 
plate was surface-modified by model compound to catch the 
target drug to the surface. (3) A simple model was used to 
test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM system 
was compared with ELISA method.  
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本計畫已將 EQCM 組裝完成，連接 PGSTAT 同時記錄電流及頻率
變化；石英板表面將固定一 model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限，同時與現
有檢測技術做比較。同時完成將 anti-EGFr antibody 接枝在金箔表
面，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限。最後與 ELISA READER 做比較，結
果優於 ELISA 的效果無論在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能
偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本計畫完成後，新
的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選
出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解
作用機制一機完成之目的，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告撰寫格式 
一、說明 
國科會基於學術公開之立場，鼓勵一般專題研究計畫主持人發表其研究成
果，但主持人對於研究成果之內容應負完全責任。計畫內容及研究成果如涉及
專利或其他智慧財產權、違異現行醫藥衛生規範、影響公序良俗或政治社會安
定等顧慮者，應事先通知國科會不宜將所繳交之成果報告蒐錄於學門成果報告
彙編或公開查詢，以免造成無謂之困擾。另外，各學門在製作成果報告彙編時，
將直接使用主持人提供的成果報告，因此主持人在繳交報告之前，應對內容詳
細校對，以確定其正確性。 
本格式說明僅為統一成果報告之格式，以供撰寫之參考，並非限制研究成
果之呈現方式。精簡報告之篇幅（不含封面之頁數）以 4 至 10 頁為原則，完整
報告之篇幅則不限制頁數。 
成果報告繳交之期限及種類（精簡報告、完整報告或期中報告等），應依本
會補助專題研究計畫作業要點及專題研究計畫經費核定清單之規定辦理。 
二、內容格式：依序為封面、中英文摘要、目錄（精簡報告得省略）、報告內容、參
考文獻、計畫成果自評、可供推廣之研發成果資料表、附錄。 
(一)報告封面：請至本會網站（http：//www.nsc.gov.tw）下載製作（格式如附件一）。 
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)。 
(三)報告內容：請包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含
結論與建議）…等。若該計畫已有論文發表者，可以 A4 紙影印，作為成果
報告內容或附錄，並請註明發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期。若有與執行
本計畫相關之著作、專利、技術報告、或學生畢業論文等，請在參考文獻
內註明之，俾可供進一步查考。 
(四)頁碼編寫：請對摘要及目錄部分用羅馬字 I 、II、 III……標在每頁下方中
央；報告內容至附錄部分請以阿拉伯數字 1.2.3.……順序標在每頁下方中央。 
(五)附表及附圖可列在文中或參考文獻之後，各表、圖請說明內容。 
(六)計畫成果自評部份，請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、
研究成果之學術或應用價值、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要
發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
(七)可供推廣之研發成果資料表：凡研究性質屬應用研究及技術發展之計畫，
請依本會提供之表格（如附件二），每項研發成果填寫一份。 
三、計畫中獲補助國外或大陸地區差旅費、出席國際學術會議差旅費或國際合作研
究計畫差旅費者，須依規定撰寫心得報告，以附件方式併同成果報告繳交，並
請於成果報告封面註記。 
四、打字編印注意事項 
1. 用紙 
使用 A4 紙，即長 29.7 公分，寬 21 公分。 
2. 格式 
中文打字規格為每行繕打（行間不另留間距），英文打字規格為 Single Space。 
3. 字體 
報告之正文以中英文撰寫均可。在字體之使用方面，英文使用 Times New 
Roman Font，中文使用標楷體，字體大小請以 12 號為主。 
中文摘要： 
第一年已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變化；石英板表面將固
定一 model component 自溶液中攝取target component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測
極限，同時與現有檢測技術做比較。第二年已完成將anti-EGFr antibody接枝在金箔表面，檢
測EQCM的偵測極限。本年度計畫將與ELISA READER做比較，結果優於ELISA的效果無論
在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本
計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同
時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，未
來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
 
Abstract： 
The currently available screening methods for the detection of target 
component of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first isolate the 
compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go to do the bioassay to prove the 
biological functions. However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target cells. 
It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret cytokines to further act on the 
target cells; that causes to error screening or miss part of effective compounds from 
the TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, sensitive screening 
system for identifying active target molecules from traditional chinese herb 
medicine using surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In 
which, the potential component of the TCM will be detected by receptor of interest 
immobilized on Au functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract based on the proposed 
mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on electronic transduction due 
to frequency change by molecule specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the 
first report on the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research in the first year was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM device 
has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance 
was connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both 
the electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz plate was 
surface-modified by model compound to catch the target drug to the surface. (3) A 
simple model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM 
system was compared with ELISA method.  
 
analyzed markers related with the histological subtypes of NPC. (*p < 0.05; **p < 0.01, and ***p < 
0.001 under the chi-square test)  
LMP1 functions as a constitutively active tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR), activating 
a number of signaling pathways in a ligand-independent manner [17], and it has been described as a 
potent activator of the NF-κB signaling pathway [18]. The consequences of NF-κB activation are 
numerous and include the up-regulation of anti-apoptotic gene products. These roles suggest that 
LMP1 is, direct or indirectly, a key modulator of the apoptosis process, and it was demonstrated 
that expression of LMP1 is associated with upregulation of Bcl-2 oncogene in human B 
lymphocytes [19]. 
Among the EBV induced latent proteins, LMP-1 is a transmembrane protein that has been 
shown to be essential for EBV-induced immortalization of B cells [20]. The possible signs and 
symptoms of NP cancer include trouble in breathing, speaking or hearing, lump in the nose or neck, 
nose bleeds, etc. Some cases of nasopharyngeal cancer can be found early in the course of the 
disease because they result in symptoms that cause patients to seek medical attention. But over 
80% of patients are in advanced stage when they are diagnosed. This is because most of the time, 
cancer spreads quickly to lymph nodes in the neck before any symptoms occur. There are several 
diagnosis methods are available such as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) positron emission tomography (PET) etc., but they are not useful in the early stage of 
detection. Only ELISA can be used in the early detection of NPC, but it also has some 
characteristic drawback like lower detection limit.  
During the last decades bio-electrochemical devices working as sensors and/or systems 
exploiting bio-electrocatalytic effects have become one of the main topics of experimental and 
theoretical studies in the field [21]. The increased interest in using microbalances has resulted, in 
part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [22]. 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) is a widely used technique for the 
monitoring of electrochemically driven surface compositional changes associated with diverse 
materials and processes [23-26]. The primary attractions of the technique are the generality and 
absolute nature of gravimetric detection, the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the 
megahertz regime and the implicitly of response interpretation. Previously, the use of 
antibody-containing polymers together with pulsed electrochemical detection and flow injection 
analysis (FIA) for detection of proteins and small organic molecules [27-29] has been reported. The 
assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or 
piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the development of biosensors [30], 
Enzyme-layered electrodes [31], antigen (or antibody) layers on electrodes [32] or piezoelectric 
crystals [33] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [34] were reported as active 
sensing interfaces for biosensors. A challenging topic in the development of biosensors relates to 
the sensitivity of the detection methods and to the need to develop amplification schemes for the 
analyses. Amplified electrochemical detection of antibodies or antigens was accomplished by 
coupling enzyme-linked bioelectrocatalytic transformations to the antigen-antibody recognition 
events. Antigens or antibodies were modified with redox enzymes, and the respective antigen or 
antibody was analyzed by competitive association in the presence of the enzyme-labeled antigen 
(or antibody) to the sensing interface and by the monitoring of the current resulting from the 
bioelectrocatalytic transformation [35].  
Bioaffinity sensors, which are based on affinity binding between ligands and biomolecules, 
have a wide range of applications as they can use bioaffinity molecules such as specific antibodies 
raised against specific analytes. The assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on 
electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the 
development of biosensors [1], Enzyme-layered electrodes [2], antigen (or antibody) layers on 
electrodes [3] or piezoelectric crystals [4] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [5] 
were reported as active sensing interfaces for biosensors. The increased interest in using 
microbalances has resulted, in part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [6]. The 
primary attractions of the technique are the generality and absolute nature of gravimetric detection, 
the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the megahertz regime and the implicitly of 
response interpretation. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a rational target
 
for antitumor strategies. 
The EGFR is expressed or highly expressed in a variety of human
 
tumors of epithelial origin. 
antibody–antigen binding using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM). The study 
also aimed to verify the effect of surface reaction and modification on the adsorption of 
biologically important molecule (LMP1). This pattern is of prime importance from the point of 
view of bioelectrochemical reactors and/or sensors. The main objectives of the proposed work are 
listed below; 
1. Precoating of electrode and crystal surface. 
2. Modification of the functional group of the Au surface 
3. Immobilization of EPV specific biomarker LMP1 on the modified crystal surface. 
4. Binding of Ag-Ab complex will be determined by voltammetric indication. 
 
Theory and principles of QCM 
 The theoretical foundation for the use of piezoelectricity was first pioneered by Raleigh in 
1885 [36], but the first thorough investigation was by Jacques and Pierre Curie in 1880 [37]. A 
piezoelectric quartz crystal resonator is a precisely cut slab from a natural or synthetic crystal of 
quartz. A quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) consists of a thin quartz disk with electrodes plated 
on it as can be seen in Fig. 2. Quartz crystal in its perfect natural form can be seen in Fig. 3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Schematic of a typical 
piezoelectric crystal 
The application of an external 
electrical potential to a piezoelectric material produces internal mechanical stress. As the QCM is 
piezoelectric, an oscillating electric field applied across the device induces an acoustic wave that 
propagates through the crystal and meets minimum impedance when the thickness of the device 
is a multiple of a half wavelength of the acoustic wave. A QCM is a shear mode device in which 
the acoustic wave propagates in a direction perpendicular to the crystal surface [38]. To make this 
happen, the quartz crystal plate must be cut to a specific orientation with respect to the crystal 
axes. These cuts belonging to the rotated Y-cut family, the AT- and BT- cuts shown in Fig. 4 are 
representative.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. The assignment of axes to a quartz crystal 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Experimental set up for typical EQCM 
Schematic representation of hemoglobin detection in piezoelectric sensor 
(Hal a´mek et al., 2007), [41]. 
 
              Incubation of glycated hemoglobin (Hb) with  
                  ferroceneboronic acid (FcBA) 
 
 
 
 
 Formation of Hb-FcBA complex 
 
 
 Binding of Hb to the DOCA-    
 modified crystal surface 
 
 Binding of Hb-FcBA complex      
 DOCA-modified piezoelectric        
 quartz crystal 
 
 
 
 
Piezoelectric sensor modified with the surfactant DOCA for the quantification of HbA and 
glycated fraction of Hb (HbA1c) 
 
 
 
 
Total Hb 
A. Injection of Hb 
B. Washing with Sorensen phosphate buffer ( pH 7.5) 
R.  5 min regeneration using pepsin solution 
 
The dotted line represents the baseline of the piezoelectric 
quartz crystal 
• Binding of biomolecules via covalent attachment to the surface. 
• Frequency shift analysis by QCM 
Flow chart of the experimental plan 
Quartz crystal was pre-treated by soaking in 1.2 M NaOH for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
Soaked in 1.2M HCl for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
20 µL of concentrated HCl was spread on the gold electrode of the crystal for 1 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
The crystal was then rinsed with absolute ethanol and distilled water and air-dried 
 
 
The cleaned crystal was submerged into the 10mM thiosalicylic acid (prepared in absolute 
ethanol) for 24 h 
 
 (Rinsed with absolute ethanol, and reaction buffer) 
100 µL each of 46mM EDC and 46mM NHS were consecutively placed over the crystal surface 
and were left to react on the crystal surface for 1 h. 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
20 µl of the EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1h 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
The free carboxyl surface was blocked with 100 µl of a 10 mM ethanolamine for 1 h  
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
100 µl of the anti-EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1 h 
 
 
Schematic representation of biomolecule immobilized on the gold surface 
 
 
 
 
 
(Thiosalicylic acid) 
 
 
 
 
EDC and NHS in sequence to form an NHS ester. The transformed carboxyl group to NHS ester 
group has made the electrode surface more hydrophobic. The frequency shift attained by the 
addition of EDC-NHS was reported in Table 1. 
 
3.2. Direct coupling of antibody immobilization on thiol functionalized crystal 
Optimal conditions for antibody immobilization were investigated after varying the antibody 
(anti-EGFR) concentrations on the crystal activated with EDC-NHS to perform antibody 
calibration curve (Fig. 2). The anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody was directed against human 
EGFR and reacts with wild-type EGFR at the molecular weight of 170 kDa. This antibody detects 
both non-phosphorylated and phosphorylated EGFR at residue Y1197. The variation of 
oscillation frequency vs. different antibody concentration was obtained by adding progressively 
higher amounts of anti-EGFR to the TSAEDC/NHS modified crystal. Each antibody was 
immobilized on the QCM by chemical coupling. The active NHS ester is replaced by the primary 
amines of the antibody and the antibody is thus immobilized through the amide bond. The 
immobilization time was optimized at 90 min. From the results of Fig. 2, frequency shift (Δf/Hz) 
was found to be higher at increased antibody concentration and decreased at an optimal 
concentration of 80 μg/mL. The non-specifically bounded antibody may also contribute to some 
frequency shift, however it was removed during washing with phosphate buffer. Excess of 
antibody concentration on QCM sensor resulted in aggregation among antibody molecules when 
the antibody was immobilized, which resulted in decreased detection range [21]. Hence the 80 
μg/mL antibody concentration was selected for antigen detection. 
 
3.3. Antibody immobilization via protein G coupling 
One of the most important aspects in the design of immunosensor is the proper choice of 
immobilization method that will retain the activity of an antibody molecule [22]. In the present 
study, we used genetically engineered truncated protein G for improved surface orientation of 
antibody immobilization. Because, protein G can bind to the Fc domain of the antibody and thus 
allowed antibody immobilization with a homogenous oriented configuration. In this way, both of 
the binding sites (Fab domains) of the antibody were exposed in solution to increase the 
probability of antigen binding. Fig. 3, shows the QCM frequency variation during the addition of 
various concentrations of antibody on the protein G immobilized crystal. The observed frequency 
shifts were 48.5, 175.8, 294.3, 301.5, 295.1 and 286.2 Hz, respectively for 0.1, 1.0, 20, 40, 60, 80 
and 100 μg/mL of antibody. Based on the frequency shift analysis it was found that as the 
antibody concentration increased, the Δf was also increased. It was found that, antibody got 
saturated at a concentration of 40 μg/mL. To provide a reasonable signal with minimal usage of 
anti-EGFR, a preliminary concentration of 40 μg/mL was preferred for further experiments. 
Beyond this level, the frequency change was independent of antibody concentration which 
indicates the binding of antibody to the protein G anchored surfaces. Furthermore, compared to 
the direct antibody immobilization (Fig. 2), antibody immobilization through protein G requires 
very less amount of antibody on the surface to capture the analyte. 
 
3.4. Calibration curve and EGFR binding 
The standard curves for different concentration of EGFR on the electrode surface was 
0.01 μg/mL as 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2. However, it gives a steady response for EGFR concentration 
ranging from 0.1 to 20 μg/mL. The mass loading effect of EGFR binding on site-specific 
antibody probe was specified in Fig. 8. Since, the 1 Hz frequency shift could be considered as the 
signal limit (fluctuation of the quartz crystal was less than 1 Hz in atmosphere), then the limit of 
detection of this QCM sensor to EGFR antigen at the concentration of 0.001 μg/mL (0.69 Hz) is 
not valid in site-specific antibody probing. A least mass loading effect (Δm) of 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2 
was observed for 0.01 μg/mL of EGFR; whereas a highest Δm was noted for 20 μg/mL as 283.7 
ng/0.02 cm2. Furthermore, mass responses generated by the selective layers depend on analyte 
concentration [23]. In our case, improved mass response ratio was accomplished by sitespecific 
antibody layer. 
 
3.6. Specificity of the immunosensor 
The selectivity of the QCM immunosensor was evaluated by assessing its response to 
several analyte-related compounds [24]. One of the greatest challenge in protein microarray is 
nonspecific protein binding resulting in high signal backgrounds and therefore decreasing assay 
sensitivity [25]. The specificity of the fabricated immunosensor was evaluated by testing the 
sensor surface coated with anti-EGFR to other proteins such as BSA and HSA at an concentration 
of 5 mg/mL using the dip-anddry procedure. The interfering proteins were chosen to cover the 
range of possibleinterfering molecules in the human serum. The frequency results indicated that 
there was no significant frequency decrease upon the addition of BSA and HSA to the sensor 
surface (Fig. 9). The QCM biosensor had a distinct response to EGFR antigen, 197.2 ±4.74 Hz 
(n=3, ± S.D) to 20 μg/mL, but had modest response to BSA and HSA. For BSA and HSA, the 
observed frequency changes were 4.16 ± 1.18 Hz and 3.85 ± 1.70 Hz, respectively. It was further 
indicated that the proposed immunosensor had a specific affinity to its corresponding antigen 
(EGFR) and not for other non-specific proteins. Specificity of the sensor chip is a crucial factor in 
the development of detection tools [20]. 
 
3.7. Regeneration of EGFR sensor 
The regeneration of binding surfaces is more important for reusable biosensors but it is often 
difficult to achieve [25]. Regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH assured effective desorption of EGFR 
from EGFR-anti EGFR conjugate complexes. For chemical immobilization, the QCM sensor 
suffered a significant decrease in frequency shift after the second cycle of regeneration. The 
relative frequency shifts at 3rd and 5th cycles were 16 and 4.4 % respectively. Nevertheless, 
site-specifically immobilized QCM crystal demonstrated a reasonable frequency shift till the 4th 
cycle of regeneration (43 %) and showed a variation in frequency shift till 6 cycles of 
regeneration (Fig. 10). Sensor chips made by immobilizing antibody via protein G appeared to be 
stable enough to withstand regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH for 4 times and to be more effective 
than sensor chips prepared by antibody immobilization using chemical cross-linking. One of the 
main advantages of piezoelectric immunosensors upon other immunological techniques relies 
on their ability to be reused as many assay cycles as possible [24]. 
 
3.8. Flow-cell analysis 
Fig. 11, shows the typical binding response of the resonance frequency during the injection 
was confirmed by the frequency shift analysis. Based on the results it was observed that the 
anti-EGFR was successfully immobilized on the surface modified crystal and it is able to 
determine the EGFR under the tested conditions. There are five different steps involved in the 
present study and are given below; that was listed as 6 figures in the first year report: 
Step 1: Surface modification of gold layered quartz crystal by TSA  
Step 2: Activation of terminal carboxyl group by EDC-NHS  
Step 3: Immobilization of anti-EGFR on the carboxylated surface 
Step 4: Blocking the free carboxyl group by Ethanolamine 
Step: Binding of EGFR to the immobilized anti-EGFR 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
 In the 3-year project, we successfully to setup a lab-scale EQCM system, to immobilize 
anti-EFGr antibody to the gold film of quartz plate, to measure the possibility to be drug screen 
and for cancer detection, and to use it to compare with the ELISA in accuracy/efficiency. The 
following conclusions were drawn from the present investigation. The modification of gold 
surface of quartz crystal with a self assembled thiol monolayer was effectively constructed using 
TSA and activated by EDC-NHS. Two different antibody immobilization strategies were tested in 
this work. Antibody binding pattern indicated that immobilization via protein G was better 
positioned for antigen binding than randomly orientated antibodies. A linear relationship that 
existed between frequency shift and the EGFR concentration from 0.01 to 10 μg/mL was 
established. Regeneration results suggests that antibody immobilization via chemical 
cross-linking is not suitable for regeneration processes. Further, this type of immobilization is not 
valid for small scale binding of antigen (10 ng). In both cases, the loss of sensitivity may be 
explained by consecutive treatment with NaOH results in the decrease of antigen binding sites. A 
real time flow cell analysis was compatible to automation; although it had a relative low 
sensitivity compared to the dip-and-dry method (1 μg/mL). The sensor fabrication and antigen 
binding is electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. The proposed QCM 
immunosensor is suitable for sensitive and specific detection of proteins that are of clinical 
interest. To further exploit these possibilities, the current research is focused on the detection of 
EGFR in human serum. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
v 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98年 11月 25日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快
速篩選 
計畫主持人： 林峰輝        
計畫編號：             學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱 石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
發明人/創作人  林峰輝 
技術說明 
中文： 
 
目前從傳統中藥篩選有效藥物或分子的方法，如  ELISA, 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS 或 SPR等，通常步驟繁瑣、費時、費力，相
當沒有效率。這些方法通常需要粗萃取物先進行HPLC分離，將所
分離出之分子，再去作生物效應檢測(bioassay)，有效之後再去作進
一步的分離。這些方法除了費時及步驟繁瑣外，有時因中藥的作用
機制並不是在標的細胞(target cell)上，常常先刺激某一細胞分泌出
細胞激素，再作用在標的細胞上，如果用上述方法篩選，常會錯失
篩選出有效的分子。 
 
本計畫擬發展出一套有效、靈敏、省時省力的方法，自中藥萃
取有效分子，表面修飾電化學石英微天平，因應擬萃取分子與表面
修飾石英板之作用(specific binding)，達到篩選、富集及瞭解藥物作
用機制一次達成的目的，尤其是針對抗癌藥物的篩選。 
 
已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變
化；石英板表面將固定一  model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測極限，同時與現有
檢測技術做比較。本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出
來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用
機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如
果偵測極限可達ng/ml，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
（100~500字） 
附件二 
技術特點 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance was 
connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in 
order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. The quartz plate was surface-modified by model 
compound to catch the target drug to the surface. A simple 
model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of 
the EQCM system was compared with ELISA method. 
推廣及運用的價值 
本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、
低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、
分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如果偵測極限可達
ng/ml，未來可用於各種疾病的早期篩選上。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
v 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
期末報告 
表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
 
 
計畫類別：v 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-009-MY3 
執行期間： 2008/08/01 ~ 2011/07/31 
 
計畫主持人：林峰輝 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：v精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 v二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台大醫學工程學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 100 年 11月 25 日 
附件一 
INTRODUCTION 
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissues 
of nasopharynx. Ethnic background (Chinese or Asian ancestry) and exposure to the Epstein-Barr 
virus (EBV) can affect the risk of developing nasopharyngeal cancer. The overall incidence of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma is highest in china [1]. Epstein-Barr virus is potentially oncogenic 
human herpes virus capable of infecting lymphoid and epithelial cells. Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is 
a prototype of gamma herpes virus that infects approximately 90% of the population worldwide [2]. 
Primary infection normally occurs in early childhood, is usually asymptomatic and results in 
life-long virus persistence, but when exposure is delayed until adolescence, infection 
mononucleosis often ensues provoking an infection during early adulthood. EBV has a strong 
tropism for human lymphocytes and for the epithelium of the upper respiratory tract, where it can 
remain latent [3]. This virus has been associated with different neoplastic diseases, like polyclonal 
B lymphoproliferation in immunosuppressed patients, Burkitt lymphoma or Hodgkin’s disease [4]. 
However, the tumor showing the strongest worldwide association with EBV is nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC) [5], but the viral mechanisms of pathogenesis in the NPC are a recurrent theme of 
debate.  
Epstein–Barr virus was the first human virus identified to be associated with human cancers, 
including lymphomas as well as epithelial tumors [6]. The association between EBV infection and 
NPC is well documented and particularly close with EBV genome present in virtually all NPC cells. 
NPC is a tumoral entity with a complex carcinogenic pattern with different histological types: UC 
(undifferentiated carcinoma), NKC (nonkeratinizing carcinoma), and SCC (squamous cell 
carcinoma) (Fig. 1) under the WHO classification [7], and previous studies have demonstrated the 
presence of EBV in all the histological types [8,9]. 
One important question concerning to the EBV infection is the mechanism of entry for the 
virus into nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. The biological cycle of the virus begins with the 
introduction of its genetic material into the cell through the CD21 membrane receptor [8,9], which 
is mainly expressed on B lymphocytes [10], although it is also present in human pharyngeal cells 
[11] and in several epithelial cells [8,9]. After binding to CD21, virions are internalized through an 
endocytic process and viral genome is integrated to the cell genome, establishing a lysogenic cycle. 
Occasionally, and by causative factors still under study such as genetic susceptibility and life-style, 
virus can be reactivated starting a lytic cycle that could produce the origin of a malignant disorder 
[12]. 
LMP1 is an integral membrane protein with oncogenic potential encoded by the BNLF-1 
gene (also called LMP1 gene) of EBV [13], and was the first EBV latent gene found to transform 
established rodent cell lines and alter the phenotype of both lymphoid and epithelial cells [14-16]. 
LMP1 is often present in nasopharyngeal carcinomas and was detected in preinvasive lesions of the 
nasopharynx [5]. The frequent expression of LMP1 in undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
indicates a role for this viral oncoprotein as a key effector molecule in NPC pathogenesis. 
Fig. 
1. LMP1, 
Bcl-2, and 
p53 
expression 
in the 
grouped 
NPC 
samples 
and 
separated 
by 
histological 
type. Inset; 
relative 
variation of 
the three  
 
EGFR is a strong prognostic indicator associated with more aggressive disease and reduced 
survival. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; HER1; erbB1) is expressed or highly 
expressed in a variety of human tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), breast, 
head and neck, gastric, colorectal, esophageal, prostate, bladder, renal, pancreatic, and ovarian 
cancers [7]. A variety of techniques may be used to evaluate EGFR at the DNA, RNA, and 
protein levels, as well as the level of receptor activation in situ [8]. This suggests that EGFR 
plays a role in the malignant phenotype [9] and that it should be included as diagnostic marker or 
in prospective studies of these tumors. Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) has 
become a standard detection method for its ability to amplify a spectroscopic signal from an 
enzyme reaction, but certain obstacles have limited its success. These limitations include a lack of 
simple quantitation and excessive time required. Furthermore, chromophore, fluorophore, or 
enzyme tags required for detection can affect the antigen/antibody (Ag/Ab) interaction, and 
nonspecific adsorption of analyte to a hydrophobic well plate can lead to random orientation of 
binding sites and possible denaturation of substrate [10]. 
Efforts to develop a label-free, time-efficient, quantitative assay format that allows for 3D 
substrates, multilayer adsorptions, and nonrigid biological recognition are an area of concentrated 
research interest [11]. For this, two different techniques have been emerged are surface plasmon 
resonance spectroscopy (SPR) and the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). However, compared 
to SPR, some important advantages make QCM an attractive tool for immunosensing. The 
advantages include, very small size, minimal electrical and electronic requirements, adaptability 
to microfluidic techniques, sequential refinement of positive signals and inexpensive fabrication 
as compared to the complicated and expensive optics of commercial SPR [11,12]. Another 
advantage of QCM is the ability to work with 3D substrates and multilayer adsorptions.  
Pierre and Jacques Curie first showed piezoelectric behavior of some materials in 1880. 
They observed that in crystals without symmetrical distribution of electrical charges, the 
application of pressure causes an electrical potential between the deformed surfaces [13]. 
Sauerbrey [14] (1959) investigated the feasibility of using piezoelectric quartz as a means of 
detecting mass change. The equation that he derived describes quantitatively the relationship 
between the shift in frequency and the change in mass of the crystal. In an ideal state, for an 
AT-cut quartz crystal with a known gold area (A) in the gas phase, the equation is: 
 
 
The oscillation frequency (ΔF), calculated respect the fundamental frequency of the 
crystal (F0), is only affected by the addition of the extra mass to the crystal (ΔM). From this, 
substituting for the various constants gives for the quartz, a sensitivity of 10
-9
 g/Hz was calculated. 
The QCM detection principle relies on recording the frequency decrease corresponding to mass 
increase on the chip surface during biological interaction [15]. To implement a 
QCM-immunosensor, antibody has to be immobilized on the crystal surface to capture the target 
compound, i.e. antigen [16]. 
As we discussed, quartz crystal microbalance has been extensively used in the detection of 
various kind of biomolecules. In order to assess the sensitivity of Quartz crystal microbalance 
system to detect EGFR was studied by surface functionalized anti-epidermal growth factor 
receptor. The affinity purified antibody was useful in the detection of EGFR by selective binding. 
 We propose the development of an ultra sensitive method for the detection of the 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) 
measurements as electronic transduction method. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the 
detection of NPC using EQCM.  
The proposed project is aimed to design a highly sensitive detection system for 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In which, the 
potential biomolecule LMP1 of the Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) will be detected by modified 
crystal surface. 
 
OBJECTIVES 
 As NPC is a major concern in china, it would be chosen here as a model system for 
biological detection. Many important physical and chemical processes can be followed by 
observing the associated mass changes. This work will describes the mechanistic investigation of 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Overview of the AT- quartz crystals 
 
The quartz crystal used as a sensor in the EQCM technique is not only sensitive to changes 
in mass of the working electrode. It is also highly sensitive to changes in temperature, pressure 
and viscous loading. Temperature and pressure can be controlled, but the principle of a 
switch-flow cell experiment is to change the electrolyte. Consequently, the changes in viscosity 
have to be compensated for. This can be done by simultaneous recording of the quartz crystal 
resonance frequency and resistance [39]. In the EQCM, the equation of the resonant frequency 
change for mass change has been presented by Sauerbrey equation [40]: 
 
△f = -2f0
2 △m/A (ρqμq)
1/2 
  
In the commonly used case of AT-cut quartz crystals, thickness–shear vibrations in a thin 
quartz plate are induced by means of the piezoelectric effect when an alternating electric field at 
the resonant frequency is applied to the exciting electrodes attached to either side of the plate. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
AT-cut quartz crystals are used as QCMs due to their low temperature co-efficient at room 
temperature with only minimal frequency changes due to temperature in that region, as a 
consequence. The crystals may be rough or smooth, clear or clouded. For the liquid-phase, 
however, optically polished crystals are recommended as liquid can get caught in the crevices of 
rough crystals and sometimes result in spurious frequency changes. The crystal diameter plays an 
important role in stability. Crystals are generally 0.5 inches in diameter, although crystals one 
inch or larger are available. The thickness of the crystal determines the resonant frequency, which 
in turn determines the mass sensitivity. Thinner devices resonate at higher frequencies and are 
more sensitive, but tend, however, to be very fragile.  
 Quartz resonators with fundamental frequencies of 5 and 10 MHz will be used in the 
experimental exploration of energy trapping. The ac excitation for the quartz crystal is generated 
by a TTL digital oscillation circuit. The crystal and its electrodes are incorporated into a 
positive-feedback oscillator circuit. Changes in resonant frequency will be measured using a 
frequency counter. The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance will be connected to the 
auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. Fitting and simulation of the electrochemical data will be calculated by means of the 
Autolab GPES 4.8 and FRA 4.8 or any other suitable softwares. Additionally, a specially 
designed electrochemical capillary microcell will be used to probe the sensitivity of a 5 MHz 
QCM in the presence of a heavy deposit. The deposited mass is calculated using Faraday’s law. 
Admittance changes of the resonator during local deposition will be recorded using a HP 8751 
network analyzer. Deposition of a thin film on the crystal surface decreases the frequency in 
proportion to the mass of the film. A typical experimental apparatus set up is shown in Fig. 5. 
Record of binding of Hb to the DOCA-modified piezosensor by QCN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyclic voltammogram of a DOCA-modified piezosensor before (#1) and after Hb 
adsorption (#2) 
(Scan rate: 2000mVs
−1
; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Square wave voltammograms obtained for HbA0 (#1) and Hb samples containing 20% of 
HbA1c (#2) 
(Scan rate: −500mV to 500mV; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5; f = 
25Hz with an amplitude of 25mV) 
 
Immobilization of the biomolecule on the crystal surface is an important aspect of 
immunosensor development. The immobilization process must guarantee the preservation of the 
biological activity of the biomolecule and a more efficient binding. Several approaches for 
achieving oriented antibody immobilization have been studied and applied to piezoelectric 
immunosensor development. 
 
Steps involved: 
• Modification of the gold electrode surface to create functional groups. 
Monitoring of Hb adsorption 
Measurement of HbA1c 
 
  
 
 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
3.1. Surface modification and activation of the thiol monolayer 
Self-assembled monolayer (SAM) on gold surface has become an increasingly important 
method for molecular immobilization [17]. The response of the QCM sensor to thiosalicylic acid 
of varying time scale was depicted in Fig. 1. Accordingly, Fig. represents the formation of thiol 
monolayer on the gold surface (dot line). The frequency response of a cleaned quartz crystal 
without thiol modification was taken as reference. The bare quartz crystal without monolayer 
formation showed the resonant frequency of 7.994990 Hz in reaction buffer. The addition of 
phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) resulted in minimum frequency shift of 10 Hz, which does not lead to 
any noticeable change in the crystal frequency. Whereas, the crystal treated with TSA showed, the 
initial frequency of 7.994464 Hz. Compared with the resonant frequency of bare gold crystal, the 
observed decrease in resonance frequency attributed the formation of TSA monolayer on the 
quartz crystal. It should be noted that QCM frequency shift analysis confirmed the expected 
binding of the thiol molecules. When the gold-sputtered crystal was immersed in thiol solution, 
the adsorption of organosulfuric compounds on the gold surfaces was by chemisorption via thiol 
groups leaving the carboxyl groups on the crystal-electrode surface [18]. On the other hand, the 
QCM sensor response towards the TSA addition on different time scale showed there is no 
time-dependent frequency decrease and the reaction between thiol group and gold is 
exceptionally specific. The adsorption time of thiol molecule seems to be independent of chain 
length however time is needed to obtain a regular and well organized monolayer. There are two 
reactions proposed to explain the strong and fast reaction between thiol-gold surface, (i) ionic 
dissociation and (ii) radical formation [19]. Immobilization of bio-molecules using cross linking 
procedures like thiols provided a longer sensor lifetime [20]. Following the self-assembled thiol 
monolayer, an activation of the TSA-modified crystal surface was constructed by the addition of 
equi-molar ratio of EDC-NHS, which involves a step-wise formation and replacement of terminal 
prepared by two different patterns (i) chemical cross-linking (ii) protein G mediated site-specific 
antibody immobilization. The representative standard curve for the EGFR detection assay (Fig. 
4-5) was obtained by employing six different individual concentrations which were in the range 
of 0.001 to 20 μg/mL. A linear relationship between Δf (Hz) and different EGFR concentrations 
were obtained for both chemical and site-specific antibody immobilization. In the case of EGFR 
binding on chemically crosslinked antibody, it showed correlation coefficient of 0.9237. The 
correlation coefficient of 0.9827 was observed for the EGFR binding on site-specifically 
immobilized antibody. Antibody on the chemically functionalized electrode surface exhibited 
comparatively lower binding activity f r EGFR with a detection limit of 100 ng/mL (Fig. 4). With 
regard to the magnitude of response and the detection limit, antibody anchored through protein G 
delivered the best result for EGFR binding with a detection limit of 10 ng/mL (Fig. 5). At this 
concentration the piezoelectric immunosensor recorded the frequency difference of 12.57 Hz. The 
lower EGFR binding efficiency in chemical cross-linking was expected because unlike antibody 
on the protein G surface, the number of the antigen binding sites was less and it may be explained 
by random antibody orientation. 
 
3.5. Detection of antigen (EGFR) using antibody functionalized quartz crystal 
Specific detection of EGFR was achieved by QCM sensor using antibody functionalized 
crystal as a change in frequency shift. Fig. 6. showed the dose responses for EGFR concentration 
when antibodies were immobilized on the QCM by two different binding patterns. Among the 
two immobilization patterns, it was considered that the highest sensitivity for EGFR detection 
was achieved when anti-EGFR antibody was immobilized via protein G (Fig. 6). Although the 
concentration of the antibody on the protein G surface was lower than that of chemical 
cross-linking it provides a greaterdegree of orientation for EGFR binding and also displayed a 
good antigen binding ability. The reaction time of antigen-antibody binding reached equilibrium 
in 60 min. The fig. 6. illustrated the change in frequency shift (Δf, Hz) upon binding of EGFR as 
a function of the antigen concentration. When EGFR at a concentration of 1 ng/mL was bound to 
the site-specifically antibody oriented surface, the value of frequency shift was not significantly 
changed (Δf = 0.69 Hz). Whereas, for 10 ng/mL of EGFR, a significant change in frequency shift 
was observed (Δf = 12.57 Hz). Thus, the detection limit of 10 ng/mL of EGFR was achieved. In 
case of antigen binding on chemically immobilized surface, there was no frequency shift 
variation for 1 and 10 ng/mL of EGFR binding. Further, the results of antigen-antibody binding 
implied that antigen binding on sitespecifically antibody was about 10 fold sensitive than antigen 
binding on chemically immobilized antibody. The overall results indicated that the detection limit 
of EGFR by QCM was in the range of 10 ng/mL to 20 μg/mL. The frequency shift conversion to 
mass loading effect of EGFR binding onto antibody immobilized on a chemical and sitespecific 
pattern were explained in Fig. 7-8. The Sauerbrey equation was applied to convert the frequency 
shift (Δf) into mass changes (mass per unit area (Δm/ng/0.02cm2). On the basis of Sauerbrey’s 
equation, delta frequency (Δf) relates directly to the change of mass on the surface of the quartz 
crystal. 
As shown in Fig. 7, the mass loading effect of chemically immobilized antibody probe were 
in the range of 2.41 to 283.74 ng for the antigen concentration of 0.01-20 μg/mL. At 0.001 μg/mL 
concentration, there was no mass loading effect (Δm = 0) and a minimal Δm value was noted for 
sequence of flow-cell QCM immunosensor. Both in situ and ex situ methods were employed for 
this assay. The first self-assembled layer of the QCM gold surface was created by the addition of 
thiosalicylic acid. In order to create a highly organized monolayer on the electrode surface, the 
thiol modifications were done in ex situ. The as prepared QCM probe was introduced into the 
flow-cell system for real time binding. Degassed phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) was then injected into 
the flow modules until stable baseline f was achieved (i.e., signal drift less then 2 Hz/h for the f 
shift). The frequency shifts were calculated as the difference between the two stable frequency 
values. The thiolated crystals were activated with EDC-NHS and the first decrease in frequency 
was noted at 60 min which indicated the formation of active NHS ester on the crystal surface 
(step a). When protein G was injected into the flow cell, substantial decrease in frequency shift 
(60 Hz) was observed (step b). The frequency shifts were return closer to the original baseline 
after rinsing with buffer. The non-reacted binding sites were occupied by the addition of 10 mM 
ethanolamine (step c) which resulted in slight frequency change (10 Hz). Followed by antibody 
binding (step d), any unbound and/or nonspecifically bounded antibody was removed from the 
flow cell by rinsing with buffer and stabilization frequency was achieved (step e). The prepared 
biointerface was equipped to capture the target antigen EGFR. When the antigen is introduced 
into flow cell, a considerable decrease in resonance frequency was noted and it is due to the 
specific binding of antigen (1 μg/mL) to the immobilized antibody on the electrode surface (step 
f). The surface was treated with 100 mM NaOH to break the antibody-antigen complex and 
successful regeneration was obtained (step g). At equilibrium withphosphate buffer, the frequency 
reaches a stable value. The working range of the proposed immunosensor was 1 μg/mL based on 
flow-cell mode and it is still comparable with the other previous reports. The minimum detectable 
range of IgE was 2.5 μg/mL using aptamer-based QCM [25]. 
 
3.9. Electrochemical characterization 
The bare Au electrode and a self-assembled thiol monolayer on the gold surface of the 
quartz crystal were electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. Similarly, activation 
of EDC-NHS by the formation of NHS ester, replacement of active NHS esters by primary 
amines of antibody and binding of antigen onto the immobilized antibodies were subjected to 
electrochemical characterization of the related Au electrode in the presence of 10 mM (Fe(SCN)6 
3-/4-. The cyclic voltammograms were taken before and after each treatment and the results were 
presented in Fig. 12. The pretreated bare Au electrode offered a reversible cyclic voltammogram, 
which indicated the clean unchanged Au surface (curve a). The formation of thiol monolayer on 
the Au electrode provided a highly insulating surface and blocked almost all the faradic currents 
(curve b). Several researchers have also observed the highly insulated gold surface after treatment 
with thiol molecules [26,27]. After activation with EDC/NHS, the thiol monolayer was bit high 
insulating and the current flow was decreased further (curve c). Replacement of the active NHS 
ester by antibody macromolecules reduced the penetration of the redox pair and decreased the 
current response (curve d). Insulation was further improved after binding of the target cells onto 
the immobilized antibodies (curve e). The densely packed thiol molecules on the Au electrode 
resulted in the formation of thick insulating layer (curve b) and hence the subsequent layers on 
the electrode surface did not have much chance to widen the distance of the insulating layer. 
 The surface modification of the quartz crystal followed by the immobilization of antibody 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
SELECTED PUBLICATIONS 
1. Chen, J.-C., Sadhasivam, S., Lin, F.-H. Label free gravimetric detection of epidermal growth 
factor receptor by antibody immobilization on quartz crystal microbalance. Process 
Biochemistry 46 (2), pp. 543-550. (SCI, Impact factor: 2.648, Rank: 17/134) 
2. Savitha, S., Sadhasivam, S., Swaminathan, K., Lin, F.H. Fungal protease: Production, 
purification and compatibility with laundry detergents and their wash performance. 2011, 
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 42 (2), pp. 298-304. (SCI, Impact 
factor: 0.573, Rank: 94/134) 
3. Lin, W. Y., S. Sadhasivam and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The dose dependent effects of betulin on 
porcine chondrocytes." Process Biochemistry 44(6): 678-684. (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
4. Sadhasivam, S., S. Savitha, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "Metabolically inactive 
trichoderma harzianum mediated adsorption of synthetic dyes: Equilibrium and kinetic 
studies." Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 40(4): 394-402. (SCI) 
5. Savitha, S., S. Sadhasivam, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "A prototype of proposed 
treatment plant for sago factory effluent." Journal of Cleaner Production 17(15): 1363-1372. 
(SCI, Rank 14/38, IF: 1.362) 
6. Tseng, C. L., W. Y. Su, K. C. Yen, K. C. Yang and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The use of 
biotinylated-egf-modified gelatin nanoparticle carrier to enhance cisplatin accumulation in 
cancerous lungs via inhalation." Biomaterials 30(20): 3476-3485. (SCI, Rank 1/16, IF: 7.365) 
7. Sadhasivam S., Savitha S., Swaminathan K., FH Lin, 2008, “Production, purification and 
characterization of mid-redox potential laccase from a newly isolated Trichoderma harzianum 
WL1”, PROCESS BIOCHEMISTRY, 43:7:736-742, (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Willner I, Katz E. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:1180. 
[2] Bourdillon C, Demaille C, Moiroux J, Save  ´ant JM.  Acc Chem Res 1996, 29:529. 
[3] Blonder R, Katz E, Cohen Y, Itzhak N, Riklin A, Willner I. Anal Chem 1996, 68: 3151. 
[4] Ben-Dov I, Willner I, Zisman E. Anal Chem 1997, 69:3506. 
[5] Patolsky F, Lichtenstein A, Willner I. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:940. 
[6] Czanderna AW, Lu C, in: Walsky, S.P., Czanderna, A.W. (Eds.), Applications of Piezoelectric 
Quartz Crystal Microbalances. Elsevier, New York, 1984. 
[7] Salomon DS, Brandt R, Ciardiello F et al. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 1995, 19:183. 
[8] Arteaga CL. The Oncologist 2002, 7:31. 
[9] Neal DE, Sharples L, Smith K, Fennely J, Harris AL. Cancer 1990, 65:1619. 
[10] Crowther, J. R. The ELISA Guidebook; Humana Press: Totowa, NJ, 2001; Vol. 149. 
[11] Janshoff A, Galla HJ, Steinem C. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:4004. 
[12] Spangler BD, Boney J, Tyler. Anal Chem Acta 1999, 399: 51-62. 
[13] Adler JF, McCallum J. Analyst 1983, 108:1169–89. 
[14] Sauerbrey GZ. Physik 1959, 91:294. 
[15] Thompson M, Arthur CL, Dhaliwal GK. Anal Chem 1986, 58:1206. 
[16] Storri S, Santoni T, Minunni M, Mascini M. Biosens Bioelectron 1998, 13: 347. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
英文： 
The currently available screening methods for the 
detection of target component of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as HPLC, GC, 
GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first 
isolate the compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go 
to do the bioassay to prove the biological functions. 
However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target 
cells. It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret 
cytokines to further act on the target cells; that causes to 
error screening or miss part of effective compounds from the 
TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, 
sensitive screening system for identifying active target 
molecules from traditional chinese herb medicine using 
surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal 
microbalance. In which, the potential component of the TCM 
will be detected by receptor of interest immobilized on Au 
functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract 
based on the proposed mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr 
compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on 
electronic transduction due to frequency change by molecule 
specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the first report on 
the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM 
device has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical 
quartz crystal microbalance was connected to the auxiliary 
analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the 
electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz 
plate was surface-modified by model compound to catch the 
target drug to the surface. (3) A simple model was used to 
test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM system 
was compared with ELISA method.  
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本計畫已將 EQCM 組裝完成，連接 PGSTAT 同時記錄電流及頻率
變化；石英板表面將固定一 model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限，同時與現
有檢測技術做比較。同時完成將 anti-EGFr antibody 接枝在金箔表
面，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限。最後與 ELISA READER 做比較，結
果優於 ELISA 的效果無論在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能
偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本計畫完成後，新
的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選
出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解
作用機制一機完成之目的，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告撰寫格式 
一、說明 
國科會基於學術公開之立場，鼓勵一般專題研究計畫主持人發表其研究成
果，但主持人對於研究成果之內容應負完全責任。計畫內容及研究成果如涉及
專利或其他智慧財產權、違異現行醫藥衛生規範、影響公序良俗或政治社會安
定等顧慮者，應事先通知國科會不宜將所繳交之成果報告蒐錄於學門成果報告
彙編或公開查詢，以免造成無謂之困擾。另外，各學門在製作成果報告彙編時，
將直接使用主持人提供的成果報告，因此主持人在繳交報告之前，應對內容詳
細校對，以確定其正確性。 
本格式說明僅為統一成果報告之格式，以供撰寫之參考，並非限制研究成
果之呈現方式。精簡報告之篇幅（不含封面之頁數）以 4 至 10 頁為原則，完整
報告之篇幅則不限制頁數。 
成果報告繳交之期限及種類（精簡報告、完整報告或期中報告等），應依本
會補助專題研究計畫作業要點及專題研究計畫經費核定清單之規定辦理。 
二、內容格式：依序為封面、中英文摘要、目錄（精簡報告得省略）、報告內容、參
考文獻、計畫成果自評、可供推廣之研發成果資料表、附錄。 
(一)報告封面：請至本會網站（http：//www.nsc.gov.tw）下載製作（格式如附件一）。 
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)。 
(三)報告內容：請包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含
結論與建議）…等。若該計畫已有論文發表者，可以 A4 紙影印，作為成果
報告內容或附錄，並請註明發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期。若有與執行
本計畫相關之著作、專利、技術報告、或學生畢業論文等，請在參考文獻
內註明之，俾可供進一步查考。 
(四)頁碼編寫：請對摘要及目錄部分用羅馬字 I 、II、 III……標在每頁下方中
央；報告內容至附錄部分請以阿拉伯數字 1.2.3.……順序標在每頁下方中央。 
(五)附表及附圖可列在文中或參考文獻之後，各表、圖請說明內容。 
(六)計畫成果自評部份，請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、
研究成果之學術或應用價值、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要
發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
(七)可供推廣之研發成果資料表：凡研究性質屬應用研究及技術發展之計畫，
請依本會提供之表格（如附件二），每項研發成果填寫一份。 
三、計畫中獲補助國外或大陸地區差旅費、出席國際學術會議差旅費或國際合作研
究計畫差旅費者，須依規定撰寫心得報告，以附件方式併同成果報告繳交，並
請於成果報告封面註記。 
四、打字編印注意事項 
1. 用紙 
使用 A4 紙，即長 29.7 公分，寬 21 公分。 
2. 格式 
中文打字規格為每行繕打（行間不另留間距），英文打字規格為 Single Space。 
3. 字體 
報告之正文以中英文撰寫均可。在字體之使用方面，英文使用 Times New 
Roman Font，中文使用標楷體，字體大小請以 12 號為主。 
中文摘要： 
第一年已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變化；石英板表面將固
定一 model component 自溶液中攝取target component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測
極限，同時與現有檢測技術做比較。第二年已完成將anti-EGFr antibody接枝在金箔表面，檢
測EQCM的偵測極限。本年度計畫將與ELISA READER做比較，結果優於ELISA的效果無論
在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本
計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同
時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，未
來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
 
Abstract： 
The currently available screening methods for the detection of target 
component of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first isolate the 
compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go to do the bioassay to prove the 
biological functions. However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target cells. 
It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret cytokines to further act on the 
target cells; that causes to error screening or miss part of effective compounds from 
the TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, sensitive screening 
system for identifying active target molecules from traditional chinese herb 
medicine using surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In 
which, the potential component of the TCM will be detected by receptor of interest 
immobilized on Au functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract based on the proposed 
mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on electronic transduction due 
to frequency change by molecule specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the 
first report on the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research in the first year was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM device 
has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance 
was connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both 
the electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz plate was 
surface-modified by model compound to catch the target drug to the surface. (3) A 
simple model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM 
system was compared with ELISA method.  
 
analyzed markers related with the histological subtypes of NPC. (*p < 0.05; **p < 0.01, and ***p < 
0.001 under the chi-square test)  
LMP1 functions as a constitutively active tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR), activating 
a number of signaling pathways in a ligand-independent manner [17], and it has been described as a 
potent activator of the NF-κB signaling pathway [18]. The consequences of NF-κB activation are 
numerous and include the up-regulation of anti-apoptotic gene products. These roles suggest that 
LMP1 is, direct or indirectly, a key modulator of the apoptosis process, and it was demonstrated 
that expression of LMP1 is associated with upregulation of Bcl-2 oncogene in human B 
lymphocytes [19]. 
Among the EBV induced latent proteins, LMP-1 is a transmembrane protein that has been 
shown to be essential for EBV-induced immortalization of B cells [20]. The possible signs and 
symptoms of NP cancer include trouble in breathing, speaking or hearing, lump in the nose or neck, 
nose bleeds, etc. Some cases of nasopharyngeal cancer can be found early in the course of the 
disease because they result in symptoms that cause patients to seek medical attention. But over 
80% of patients are in advanced stage when they are diagnosed. This is because most of the time, 
cancer spreads quickly to lymph nodes in the neck before any symptoms occur. There are several 
diagnosis methods are available such as computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) positron emission tomography (PET) etc., but they are not useful in the early stage of 
detection. Only ELISA can be used in the early detection of NPC, but it also has some 
characteristic drawback like lower detection limit.  
During the last decades bio-electrochemical devices working as sensors and/or systems 
exploiting bio-electrocatalytic effects have become one of the main topics of experimental and 
theoretical studies in the field [21]. The increased interest in using microbalances has resulted, in 
part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [22]. 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) is a widely used technique for the 
monitoring of electrochemically driven surface compositional changes associated with diverse 
materials and processes [23-26]. The primary attractions of the technique are the generality and 
absolute nature of gravimetric detection, the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the 
megahertz regime and the implicitly of response interpretation. Previously, the use of 
antibody-containing polymers together with pulsed electrochemical detection and flow injection 
analysis (FIA) for detection of proteins and small organic molecules [27-29] has been reported. The 
assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or 
piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the development of biosensors [30], 
Enzyme-layered electrodes [31], antigen (or antibody) layers on electrodes [32] or piezoelectric 
crystals [33] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [34] were reported as active 
sensing interfaces for biosensors. A challenging topic in the development of biosensors relates to 
the sensitivity of the detection methods and to the need to develop amplification schemes for the 
analyses. Amplified electrochemical detection of antibodies or antigens was accomplished by 
coupling enzyme-linked bioelectrocatalytic transformations to the antigen-antibody recognition 
events. Antigens or antibodies were modified with redox enzymes, and the respective antigen or 
antibody was analyzed by competitive association in the presence of the enzyme-labeled antigen 
(or antibody) to the sensing interface and by the monitoring of the current resulting from the 
bioelectrocatalytic transformation [35].  
Bioaffinity sensors, which are based on affinity binding between ligands and biomolecules, 
have a wide range of applications as they can use bioaffinity molecules such as specific antibodies 
raised against specific analytes. The assembly of monolayers or multilayers of biomaterials on 
electronic transducers, e.g., electrodes or piezoelectric crystals, is extensively employed for the 
development of biosensors [1], Enzyme-layered electrodes [2], antigen (or antibody) layers on 
electrodes [3] or piezoelectric crystals [4] and nucleic acid-monolayer functionalized electrodes [5] 
were reported as active sensing interfaces for biosensors. The increased interest in using 
microbalances has resulted, in part, from the rapid progress in scientific instrumentation [6]. The 
primary attractions of the technique are the generality and absolute nature of gravimetric detection, 
the high (picogram) sensitivity of devices operating in the megahertz regime and the implicitly of 
response interpretation. 
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a rational target
 
for antitumor strategies. 
The EGFR is expressed or highly expressed in a variety of human
 
tumors of epithelial origin. 
antibody–antigen binding using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM). The study 
also aimed to verify the effect of surface reaction and modification on the adsorption of 
biologically important molecule (LMP1). This pattern is of prime importance from the point of 
view of bioelectrochemical reactors and/or sensors. The main objectives of the proposed work are 
listed below; 
1. Precoating of electrode and crystal surface. 
2. Modification of the functional group of the Au surface 
3. Immobilization of EPV specific biomarker LMP1 on the modified crystal surface. 
4. Binding of Ag-Ab complex will be determined by voltammetric indication. 
 
Theory and principles of QCM 
 The theoretical foundation for the use of piezoelectricity was first pioneered by Raleigh in 
1885 [36], but the first thorough investigation was by Jacques and Pierre Curie in 1880 [37]. A 
piezoelectric quartz crystal resonator is a precisely cut slab from a natural or synthetic crystal of 
quartz. A quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) consists of a thin quartz disk with electrodes plated 
on it as can be seen in Fig. 2. Quartz crystal in its perfect natural form can be seen in Fig. 3. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Schematic of a typical 
piezoelectric crystal 
The application of an external 
electrical potential to a piezoelectric material produces internal mechanical stress. As the QCM is 
piezoelectric, an oscillating electric field applied across the device induces an acoustic wave that 
propagates through the crystal and meets minimum impedance when the thickness of the device 
is a multiple of a half wavelength of the acoustic wave. A QCM is a shear mode device in which 
the acoustic wave propagates in a direction perpendicular to the crystal surface [38]. To make this 
happen, the quartz crystal plate must be cut to a specific orientation with respect to the crystal 
axes. These cuts belonging to the rotated Y-cut family, the AT- and BT- cuts shown in Fig. 4 are 
representative.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. The assignment of axes to a quartz crystal 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Experimental set up for typical EQCM 
Schematic representation of hemoglobin detection in piezoelectric sensor 
(Hal a´mek et al., 2007), [41]. 
 
              Incubation of glycated hemoglobin (Hb) with  
                  ferroceneboronic acid (FcBA) 
 
 
 
 
 Formation of Hb-FcBA complex 
 
 
 Binding of Hb to the DOCA-    
 modified crystal surface 
 
 Binding of Hb-FcBA complex      
 DOCA-modified piezoelectric        
 quartz crystal 
 
 
 
 
Piezoelectric sensor modified with the surfactant DOCA for the quantification of HbA and 
glycated fraction of Hb (HbA1c) 
 
 
 
 
Total Hb 
A. Injection of Hb 
B. Washing with Sorensen phosphate buffer ( pH 7.5) 
R.  5 min regeneration using pepsin solution 
 
The dotted line represents the baseline of the piezoelectric 
quartz crystal 
• Binding of biomolecules via covalent attachment to the surface. 
• Frequency shift analysis by QCM 
Flow chart of the experimental plan 
Quartz crystal was pre-treated by soaking in 1.2 M NaOH for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
Soaked in 1.2M HCl for 5 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
20 µL of concentrated HCl was spread on the gold electrode of the crystal for 1 min 
 
(Rinsing with distilled water) 
The crystal was then rinsed with absolute ethanol and distilled water and air-dried 
 
 
The cleaned crystal was submerged into the 10mM thiosalicylic acid (prepared in absolute 
ethanol) for 24 h 
 
 (Rinsed with absolute ethanol, and reaction buffer) 
100 µL each of 46mM EDC and 46mM NHS were consecutively placed over the crystal surface 
and were left to react on the crystal surface for 1 h. 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
20 µl of the EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1h 
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
The free carboxyl surface was blocked with 100 µl of a 10 mM ethanolamine for 1 h  
 
(Rinsed with reaction buffer) 
100 µl of the anti-EGFR was added and the response was recorded after 1 h 
 
 
Schematic representation of biomolecule immobilized on the gold surface 
 
 
 
 
 
(Thiosalicylic acid) 
 
 
 
 
EDC and NHS in sequence to form an NHS ester. The transformed carboxyl group to NHS ester 
group has made the electrode surface more hydrophobic. The frequency shift attained by the 
addition of EDC-NHS was reported in Table 1. 
 
3.2. Direct coupling of antibody immobilization on thiol functionalized crystal 
Optimal conditions for antibody immobilization were investigated after varying the antibody 
(anti-EGFR) concentrations on the crystal activated with EDC-NHS to perform antibody 
calibration curve (Fig. 2). The anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody was directed against human 
EGFR and reacts with wild-type EGFR at the molecular weight of 170 kDa. This antibody detects 
both non-phosphorylated and phosphorylated EGFR at residue Y1197. The variation of 
oscillation frequency vs. different antibody concentration was obtained by adding progressively 
higher amounts of anti-EGFR to the TSAEDC/NHS modified crystal. Each antibody was 
immobilized on the QCM by chemical coupling. The active NHS ester is replaced by the primary 
amines of the antibody and the antibody is thus immobilized through the amide bond. The 
immobilization time was optimized at 90 min. From the results of Fig. 2, frequency shift (Δf/Hz) 
was found to be higher at increased antibody concentration and decreased at an optimal 
concentration of 80 μg/mL. The non-specifically bounded antibody may also contribute to some 
frequency shift, however it was removed during washing with phosphate buffer. Excess of 
antibody concentration on QCM sensor resulted in aggregation among antibody molecules when 
the antibody was immobilized, which resulted in decreased detection range [21]. Hence the 80 
μg/mL antibody concentration was selected for antigen detection. 
 
3.3. Antibody immobilization via protein G coupling 
One of the most important aspects in the design of immunosensor is the proper choice of 
immobilization method that will retain the activity of an antibody molecule [22]. In the present 
study, we used genetically engineered truncated protein G for improved surface orientation of 
antibody immobilization. Because, protein G can bind to the Fc domain of the antibody and thus 
allowed antibody immobilization with a homogenous oriented configuration. In this way, both of 
the binding sites (Fab domains) of the antibody were exposed in solution to increase the 
probability of antigen binding. Fig. 3, shows the QCM frequency variation during the addition of 
various concentrations of antibody on the protein G immobilized crystal. The observed frequency 
shifts were 48.5, 175.8, 294.3, 301.5, 295.1 and 286.2 Hz, respectively for 0.1, 1.0, 20, 40, 60, 80 
and 100 μg/mL of antibody. Based on the frequency shift analysis it was found that as the 
antibody concentration increased, the Δf was also increased. It was found that, antibody got 
saturated at a concentration of 40 μg/mL. To provide a reasonable signal with minimal usage of 
anti-EGFR, a preliminary concentration of 40 μg/mL was preferred for further experiments. 
Beyond this level, the frequency change was independent of antibody concentration which 
indicates the binding of antibody to the protein G anchored surfaces. Furthermore, compared to 
the direct antibody immobilization (Fig. 2), antibody immobilization through protein G requires 
very less amount of antibody on the surface to capture the analyte. 
 
3.4. Calibration curve and EGFR binding 
The standard curves for different concentration of EGFR on the electrode surface was 
0.01 μg/mL as 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2. However, it gives a steady response for EGFR concentration 
ranging from 0.1 to 20 μg/mL. The mass loading effect of EGFR binding on site-specific 
antibody probe was specified in Fig. 8. Since, the 1 Hz frequency shift could be considered as the 
signal limit (fluctuation of the quartz crystal was less than 1 Hz in atmosphere), then the limit of 
detection of this QCM sensor to EGFR antigen at the concentration of 0.001 μg/mL (0.69 Hz) is 
not valid in site-specific antibody probing. A least mass loading effect (Δm) of 2.41 ng/0.02 cm2 
was observed for 0.01 μg/mL of EGFR; whereas a highest Δm was noted for 20 μg/mL as 283.7 
ng/0.02 cm2. Furthermore, mass responses generated by the selective layers depend on analyte 
concentration [23]. In our case, improved mass response ratio was accomplished by sitespecific 
antibody layer. 
 
3.6. Specificity of the immunosensor 
The selectivity of the QCM immunosensor was evaluated by assessing its response to 
several analyte-related compounds [24]. One of the greatest challenge in protein microarray is 
nonspecific protein binding resulting in high signal backgrounds and therefore decreasing assay 
sensitivity [25]. The specificity of the fabricated immunosensor was evaluated by testing the 
sensor surface coated with anti-EGFR to other proteins such as BSA and HSA at an concentration 
of 5 mg/mL using the dip-anddry procedure. The interfering proteins were chosen to cover the 
range of possibleinterfering molecules in the human serum. The frequency results indicated that 
there was no significant frequency decrease upon the addition of BSA and HSA to the sensor 
surface (Fig. 9). The QCM biosensor had a distinct response to EGFR antigen, 197.2 ±4.74 Hz 
(n=3, ± S.D) to 20 μg/mL, but had modest response to BSA and HSA. For BSA and HSA, the 
observed frequency changes were 4.16 ± 1.18 Hz and 3.85 ± 1.70 Hz, respectively. It was further 
indicated that the proposed immunosensor had a specific affinity to its corresponding antigen 
(EGFR) and not for other non-specific proteins. Specificity of the sensor chip is a crucial factor in 
the development of detection tools [20]. 
 
3.7. Regeneration of EGFR sensor 
The regeneration of binding surfaces is more important for reusable biosensors but it is often 
difficult to achieve [25]. Regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH assured effective desorption of EGFR 
from EGFR-anti EGFR conjugate complexes. For chemical immobilization, the QCM sensor 
suffered a significant decrease in frequency shift after the second cycle of regeneration. The 
relative frequency shifts at 3rd and 5th cycles were 16 and 4.4 % respectively. Nevertheless, 
site-specifically immobilized QCM crystal demonstrated a reasonable frequency shift till the 4th 
cycle of regeneration (43 %) and showed a variation in frequency shift till 6 cycles of 
regeneration (Fig. 10). Sensor chips made by immobilizing antibody via protein G appeared to be 
stable enough to withstand regeneration with 0.1 M NaOH for 4 times and to be more effective 
than sensor chips prepared by antibody immobilization using chemical cross-linking. One of the 
main advantages of piezoelectric immunosensors upon other immunological techniques relies 
on their ability to be reused as many assay cycles as possible [24]. 
 
3.8. Flow-cell analysis 
Fig. 11, shows the typical binding response of the resonance frequency during the injection 
was confirmed by the frequency shift analysis. Based on the results it was observed that the 
anti-EGFR was successfully immobilized on the surface modified crystal and it is able to 
determine the EGFR under the tested conditions. There are five different steps involved in the 
present study and are given below; that was listed as 6 figures in the first year report: 
Step 1: Surface modification of gold layered quartz crystal by TSA  
Step 2: Activation of terminal carboxyl group by EDC-NHS  
Step 3: Immobilization of anti-EGFR on the carboxylated surface 
Step 4: Blocking the free carboxyl group by Ethanolamine 
Step: Binding of EGFR to the immobilized anti-EGFR 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
 In the 3-year project, we successfully to setup a lab-scale EQCM system, to immobilize 
anti-EFGr antibody to the gold film of quartz plate, to measure the possibility to be drug screen 
and for cancer detection, and to use it to compare with the ELISA in accuracy/efficiency. The 
following conclusions were drawn from the present investigation. The modification of gold 
surface of quartz crystal with a self assembled thiol monolayer was effectively constructed using 
TSA and activated by EDC-NHS. Two different antibody immobilization strategies were tested in 
this work. Antibody binding pattern indicated that immobilization via protein G was better 
positioned for antigen binding than randomly orientated antibodies. A linear relationship that 
existed between frequency shift and the EGFR concentration from 0.01 to 10 μg/mL was 
established. Regeneration results suggests that antibody immobilization via chemical 
cross-linking is not suitable for regeneration processes. Further, this type of immobilization is not 
valid for small scale binding of antigen (10 ng). In both cases, the loss of sensitivity may be 
explained by consecutive treatment with NaOH results in the decrease of antigen binding sites. A 
real time flow cell analysis was compatible to automation; although it had a relative low 
sensitivity compared to the dip-and-dry method (1 μg/mL). The sensor fabrication and antigen 
binding is electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. The proposed QCM 
immunosensor is suitable for sensitive and specific detection of proteins that are of clinical 
interest. To further exploit these possibilities, the current research is focused on the detection of 
EGFR in human serum. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
v 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98年 11月 25日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快
速篩選 
計畫主持人： 林峰輝        
計畫編號：             學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱 石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
發明人/創作人  林峰輝 
技術說明 
中文： 
 
目前從傳統中藥篩選有效藥物或分子的方法，如  ELISA, 
HPLC, GC, GC-MASS 或 SPR等，通常步驟繁瑣、費時、費力，相
當沒有效率。這些方法通常需要粗萃取物先進行HPLC分離，將所
分離出之分子，再去作生物效應檢測(bioassay)，有效之後再去作進
一步的分離。這些方法除了費時及步驟繁瑣外，有時因中藥的作用
機制並不是在標的細胞(target cell)上，常常先刺激某一細胞分泌出
細胞激素，再作用在標的細胞上，如果用上述方法篩選，常會錯失
篩選出有效的分子。 
 
本計畫擬發展出一套有效、靈敏、省時省力的方法，自中藥萃
取有效分子，表面修飾電化學石英微天平，因應擬萃取分子與表面
修飾石英板之作用(specific binding)，達到篩選、富集及瞭解藥物作
用機制一次達成的目的，尤其是針對抗癌藥物的篩選。 
 
已將EQCM組裝完成，連接PGSTAT同時記錄電流及頻率變
化；石英板表面將固定一  model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測EQCM的偵測極限，同時與現有
檢測技術做比較。本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出
來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用
機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如
果偵測極限可達ng/ml，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
（100~500字） 
附件二 
技術特點 
The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance was 
connected to the auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in 
order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. The quartz plate was surface-modified by model 
compound to catch the target drug to the surface. A simple 
model was used to test the sensitivity and the limitation of 
the EQCM system was compared with ELISA method. 
推廣及運用的價值 
本計畫完成後，新的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、
低費用，藥物篩選出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、
分離、純化、瞭解作用機制一機完成之目的，如果偵測極限可達
ng/ml，未來可用於各種疾病的早期篩選上。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
v 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
期末報告 
表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選 
 
 
計畫類別：v 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-009-MY3 
執行期間： 2008/08/01 ~ 2011/07/31 
 
計畫主持人：林峰輝 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：v精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 v二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：台大醫學工程學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 100 年 11月 25 日 
附件一 
INTRODUCTION 
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a disease in which malignant cells form in the tissues 
of nasopharynx. Ethnic background (Chinese or Asian ancestry) and exposure to the Epstein-Barr 
virus (EBV) can affect the risk of developing nasopharyngeal cancer. The overall incidence of 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma is highest in china [1]. Epstein-Barr virus is potentially oncogenic 
human herpes virus capable of infecting lymphoid and epithelial cells. Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) is 
a prototype of gamma herpes virus that infects approximately 90% of the population worldwide [2]. 
Primary infection normally occurs in early childhood, is usually asymptomatic and results in 
life-long virus persistence, but when exposure is delayed until adolescence, infection 
mononucleosis often ensues provoking an infection during early adulthood. EBV has a strong 
tropism for human lymphocytes and for the epithelium of the upper respiratory tract, where it can 
remain latent [3]. This virus has been associated with different neoplastic diseases, like polyclonal 
B lymphoproliferation in immunosuppressed patients, Burkitt lymphoma or Hodgkin’s disease [4]. 
However, the tumor showing the strongest worldwide association with EBV is nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC) [5], but the viral mechanisms of pathogenesis in the NPC are a recurrent theme of 
debate.  
Epstein–Barr virus was the first human virus identified to be associated with human cancers, 
including lymphomas as well as epithelial tumors [6]. The association between EBV infection and 
NPC is well documented and particularly close with EBV genome present in virtually all NPC cells. 
NPC is a tumoral entity with a complex carcinogenic pattern with different histological types: UC 
(undifferentiated carcinoma), NKC (nonkeratinizing carcinoma), and SCC (squamous cell 
carcinoma) (Fig. 1) under the WHO classification [7], and previous studies have demonstrated the 
presence of EBV in all the histological types [8,9]. 
One important question concerning to the EBV infection is the mechanism of entry for the 
virus into nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. The biological cycle of the virus begins with the 
introduction of its genetic material into the cell through the CD21 membrane receptor [8,9], which 
is mainly expressed on B lymphocytes [10], although it is also present in human pharyngeal cells 
[11] and in several epithelial cells [8,9]. After binding to CD21, virions are internalized through an 
endocytic process and viral genome is integrated to the cell genome, establishing a lysogenic cycle. 
Occasionally, and by causative factors still under study such as genetic susceptibility and life-style, 
virus can be reactivated starting a lytic cycle that could produce the origin of a malignant disorder 
[12]. 
LMP1 is an integral membrane protein with oncogenic potential encoded by the BNLF-1 
gene (also called LMP1 gene) of EBV [13], and was the first EBV latent gene found to transform 
established rodent cell lines and alter the phenotype of both lymphoid and epithelial cells [14-16]. 
LMP1 is often present in nasopharyngeal carcinomas and was detected in preinvasive lesions of the 
nasopharynx [5]. The frequent expression of LMP1 in undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinoma 
indicates a role for this viral oncoprotein as a key effector molecule in NPC pathogenesis. 
Fig. 
1. LMP1, 
Bcl-2, and 
p53 
expression 
in the 
grouped 
NPC 
samples 
and 
separated 
by 
histological 
type. Inset; 
relative 
variation of 
the three  
 
EGFR is a strong prognostic indicator associated with more aggressive disease and reduced 
survival. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR; HER1; erbB1) is expressed or highly 
expressed in a variety of human tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), breast, 
head and neck, gastric, colorectal, esophageal, prostate, bladder, renal, pancreatic, and ovarian 
cancers [7]. A variety of techniques may be used to evaluate EGFR at the DNA, RNA, and 
protein levels, as well as the level of receptor activation in situ [8]. This suggests that EGFR 
plays a role in the malignant phenotype [9] and that it should be included as diagnostic marker or 
in prospective studies of these tumors. Enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) has 
become a standard detection method for its ability to amplify a spectroscopic signal from an 
enzyme reaction, but certain obstacles have limited its success. These limitations include a lack of 
simple quantitation and excessive time required. Furthermore, chromophore, fluorophore, or 
enzyme tags required for detection can affect the antigen/antibody (Ag/Ab) interaction, and 
nonspecific adsorption of analyte to a hydrophobic well plate can lead to random orientation of 
binding sites and possible denaturation of substrate [10]. 
Efforts to develop a label-free, time-efficient, quantitative assay format that allows for 3D 
substrates, multilayer adsorptions, and nonrigid biological recognition are an area of concentrated 
research interest [11]. For this, two different techniques have been emerged are surface plasmon 
resonance spectroscopy (SPR) and the quartz crystal microbalance (QCM). However, compared 
to SPR, some important advantages make QCM an attractive tool for immunosensing. The 
advantages include, very small size, minimal electrical and electronic requirements, adaptability 
to microfluidic techniques, sequential refinement of positive signals and inexpensive fabrication 
as compared to the complicated and expensive optics of commercial SPR [11,12]. Another 
advantage of QCM is the ability to work with 3D substrates and multilayer adsorptions.  
Pierre and Jacques Curie first showed piezoelectric behavior of some materials in 1880. 
They observed that in crystals without symmetrical distribution of electrical charges, the 
application of pressure causes an electrical potential between the deformed surfaces [13]. 
Sauerbrey [14] (1959) investigated the feasibility of using piezoelectric quartz as a means of 
detecting mass change. The equation that he derived describes quantitatively the relationship 
between the shift in frequency and the change in mass of the crystal. In an ideal state, for an 
AT-cut quartz crystal with a known gold area (A) in the gas phase, the equation is: 
 
 
The oscillation frequency (ΔF), calculated respect the fundamental frequency of the 
crystal (F0), is only affected by the addition of the extra mass to the crystal (ΔM). From this, 
substituting for the various constants gives for the quartz, a sensitivity of 10
-9
 g/Hz was calculated. 
The QCM detection principle relies on recording the frequency decrease corresponding to mass 
increase on the chip surface during biological interaction [15]. To implement a 
QCM-immunosensor, antibody has to be immobilized on the crystal surface to capture the target 
compound, i.e. antigen [16]. 
As we discussed, quartz crystal microbalance has been extensively used in the detection of 
various kind of biomolecules. In order to assess the sensitivity of Quartz crystal microbalance 
system to detect EGFR was studied by surface functionalized anti-epidermal growth factor 
receptor. The affinity purified antibody was useful in the detection of EGFR by selective binding. 
 We propose the development of an ultra sensitive method for the detection of the 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance (EQCM) 
measurements as electronic transduction method. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the 
detection of NPC using EQCM.  
The proposed project is aimed to design a highly sensitive detection system for 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma using electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance. In which, the 
potential biomolecule LMP1 of the Epstein–Barr virus (EBV) will be detected by modified 
crystal surface. 
 
OBJECTIVES 
 As NPC is a major concern in china, it would be chosen here as a model system for 
biological detection. Many important physical and chemical processes can be followed by 
observing the associated mass changes. This work will describes the mechanistic investigation of 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Overview of the AT- quartz crystals 
 
The quartz crystal used as a sensor in the EQCM technique is not only sensitive to changes 
in mass of the working electrode. It is also highly sensitive to changes in temperature, pressure 
and viscous loading. Temperature and pressure can be controlled, but the principle of a 
switch-flow cell experiment is to change the electrolyte. Consequently, the changes in viscosity 
have to be compensated for. This can be done by simultaneous recording of the quartz crystal 
resonance frequency and resistance [39]. In the EQCM, the equation of the resonant frequency 
change for mass change has been presented by Sauerbrey equation [40]: 
 
△f = -2f0
2 △m/A (ρqμq)
1/2 
  
In the commonly used case of AT-cut quartz crystals, thickness–shear vibrations in a thin 
quartz plate are induced by means of the piezoelectric effect when an alternating electric field at 
the resonant frequency is applied to the exciting electrodes attached to either side of the plate. 
 
MATERIALS AND METHODS 
AT-cut quartz crystals are used as QCMs due to their low temperature co-efficient at room 
temperature with only minimal frequency changes due to temperature in that region, as a 
consequence. The crystals may be rough or smooth, clear or clouded. For the liquid-phase, 
however, optically polished crystals are recommended as liquid can get caught in the crevices of 
rough crystals and sometimes result in spurious frequency changes. The crystal diameter plays an 
important role in stability. Crystals are generally 0.5 inches in diameter, although crystals one 
inch or larger are available. The thickness of the crystal determines the resonant frequency, which 
in turn determines the mass sensitivity. Thinner devices resonate at higher frequencies and are 
more sensitive, but tend, however, to be very fragile.  
 Quartz resonators with fundamental frequencies of 5 and 10 MHz will be used in the 
experimental exploration of energy trapping. The ac excitation for the quartz crystal is generated 
by a TTL digital oscillation circuit. The crystal and its electrodes are incorporated into a 
positive-feedback oscillator circuit. Changes in resonant frequency will be measured using a 
frequency counter. The electrochemical quartz crystal microbalance will be connected to the 
auxiliary analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the electrolytic current and EQCM 
frequency. Fitting and simulation of the electrochemical data will be calculated by means of the 
Autolab GPES 4.8 and FRA 4.8 or any other suitable softwares. Additionally, a specially 
designed electrochemical capillary microcell will be used to probe the sensitivity of a 5 MHz 
QCM in the presence of a heavy deposit. The deposited mass is calculated using Faraday’s law. 
Admittance changes of the resonator during local deposition will be recorded using a HP 8751 
network analyzer. Deposition of a thin film on the crystal surface decreases the frequency in 
proportion to the mass of the film. A typical experimental apparatus set up is shown in Fig. 5. 
Record of binding of Hb to the DOCA-modified piezosensor by QCN  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyclic voltammogram of a DOCA-modified piezosensor before (#1) and after Hb 
adsorption (#2) 
(Scan rate: 2000mVs
−1
; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Square wave voltammograms obtained for HbA0 (#1) and Hb samples containing 20% of 
HbA1c (#2) 
(Scan rate: −500mV to 500mV; Background solution: Sorensen phosphate buffer, pH 7.5; f = 
25Hz with an amplitude of 25mV) 
 
Immobilization of the biomolecule on the crystal surface is an important aspect of 
immunosensor development. The immobilization process must guarantee the preservation of the 
biological activity of the biomolecule and a more efficient binding. Several approaches for 
achieving oriented antibody immobilization have been studied and applied to piezoelectric 
immunosensor development. 
 
Steps involved: 
• Modification of the gold electrode surface to create functional groups. 
Monitoring of Hb adsorption 
Measurement of HbA1c 
 
  
 
 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
3.1. Surface modification and activation of the thiol monolayer 
Self-assembled monolayer (SAM) on gold surface has become an increasingly important 
method for molecular immobilization [17]. The response of the QCM sensor to thiosalicylic acid 
of varying time scale was depicted in Fig. 1. Accordingly, Fig. represents the formation of thiol 
monolayer on the gold surface (dot line). The frequency response of a cleaned quartz crystal 
without thiol modification was taken as reference. The bare quartz crystal without monolayer 
formation showed the resonant frequency of 7.994990 Hz in reaction buffer. The addition of 
phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) resulted in minimum frequency shift of 10 Hz, which does not lead to 
any noticeable change in the crystal frequency. Whereas, the crystal treated with TSA showed, the 
initial frequency of 7.994464 Hz. Compared with the resonant frequency of bare gold crystal, the 
observed decrease in resonance frequency attributed the formation of TSA monolayer on the 
quartz crystal. It should be noted that QCM frequency shift analysis confirmed the expected 
binding of the thiol molecules. When the gold-sputtered crystal was immersed in thiol solution, 
the adsorption of organosulfuric compounds on the gold surfaces was by chemisorption via thiol 
groups leaving the carboxyl groups on the crystal-electrode surface [18]. On the other hand, the 
QCM sensor response towards the TSA addition on different time scale showed there is no 
time-dependent frequency decrease and the reaction between thiol group and gold is 
exceptionally specific. The adsorption time of thiol molecule seems to be independent of chain 
length however time is needed to obtain a regular and well organized monolayer. There are two 
reactions proposed to explain the strong and fast reaction between thiol-gold surface, (i) ionic 
dissociation and (ii) radical formation [19]. Immobilization of bio-molecules using cross linking 
procedures like thiols provided a longer sensor lifetime [20]. Following the self-assembled thiol 
monolayer, an activation of the TSA-modified crystal surface was constructed by the addition of 
equi-molar ratio of EDC-NHS, which involves a step-wise formation and replacement of terminal 
prepared by two different patterns (i) chemical cross-linking (ii) protein G mediated site-specific 
antibody immobilization. The representative standard curve for the EGFR detection assay (Fig. 
4-5) was obtained by employing six different individual concentrations which were in the range 
of 0.001 to 20 μg/mL. A linear relationship between Δf (Hz) and different EGFR concentrations 
were obtained for both chemical and site-specific antibody immobilization. In the case of EGFR 
binding on chemically crosslinked antibody, it showed correlation coefficient of 0.9237. The 
correlation coefficient of 0.9827 was observed for the EGFR binding on site-specifically 
immobilized antibody. Antibody on the chemically functionalized electrode surface exhibited 
comparatively lower binding activity f r EGFR with a detection limit of 100 ng/mL (Fig. 4). With 
regard to the magnitude of response and the detection limit, antibody anchored through protein G 
delivered the best result for EGFR binding with a detection limit of 10 ng/mL (Fig. 5). At this 
concentration the piezoelectric immunosensor recorded the frequency difference of 12.57 Hz. The 
lower EGFR binding efficiency in chemical cross-linking was expected because unlike antibody 
on the protein G surface, the number of the antigen binding sites was less and it may be explained 
by random antibody orientation. 
 
3.5. Detection of antigen (EGFR) using antibody functionalized quartz crystal 
Specific detection of EGFR was achieved by QCM sensor using antibody functionalized 
crystal as a change in frequency shift. Fig. 6. showed the dose responses for EGFR concentration 
when antibodies were immobilized on the QCM by two different binding patterns. Among the 
two immobilization patterns, it was considered that the highest sensitivity for EGFR detection 
was achieved when anti-EGFR antibody was immobilized via protein G (Fig. 6). Although the 
concentration of the antibody on the protein G surface was lower than that of chemical 
cross-linking it provides a greaterdegree of orientation for EGFR binding and also displayed a 
good antigen binding ability. The reaction time of antigen-antibody binding reached equilibrium 
in 60 min. The fig. 6. illustrated the change in frequency shift (Δf, Hz) upon binding of EGFR as 
a function of the antigen concentration. When EGFR at a concentration of 1 ng/mL was bound to 
the site-specifically antibody oriented surface, the value of frequency shift was not significantly 
changed (Δf = 0.69 Hz). Whereas, for 10 ng/mL of EGFR, a significant change in frequency shift 
was observed (Δf = 12.57 Hz). Thus, the detection limit of 10 ng/mL of EGFR was achieved. In 
case of antigen binding on chemically immobilized surface, there was no frequency shift 
variation for 1 and 10 ng/mL of EGFR binding. Further, the results of antigen-antibody binding 
implied that antigen binding on sitespecifically antibody was about 10 fold sensitive than antigen 
binding on chemically immobilized antibody. The overall results indicated that the detection limit 
of EGFR by QCM was in the range of 10 ng/mL to 20 μg/mL. The frequency shift conversion to 
mass loading effect of EGFR binding onto antibody immobilized on a chemical and sitespecific 
pattern were explained in Fig. 7-8. The Sauerbrey equation was applied to convert the frequency 
shift (Δf) into mass changes (mass per unit area (Δm/ng/0.02cm2). On the basis of Sauerbrey’s 
equation, delta frequency (Δf) relates directly to the change of mass on the surface of the quartz 
crystal. 
As shown in Fig. 7, the mass loading effect of chemically immobilized antibody probe were 
in the range of 2.41 to 283.74 ng for the antigen concentration of 0.01-20 μg/mL. At 0.001 μg/mL 
concentration, there was no mass loading effect (Δm = 0) and a minimal Δm value was noted for 
sequence of flow-cell QCM immunosensor. Both in situ and ex situ methods were employed for 
this assay. The first self-assembled layer of the QCM gold surface was created by the addition of 
thiosalicylic acid. In order to create a highly organized monolayer on the electrode surface, the 
thiol modifications were done in ex situ. The as prepared QCM probe was introduced into the 
flow-cell system for real time binding. Degassed phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) was then injected into 
the flow modules until stable baseline f was achieved (i.e., signal drift less then 2 Hz/h for the f 
shift). The frequency shifts were calculated as the difference between the two stable frequency 
values. The thiolated crystals were activated with EDC-NHS and the first decrease in frequency 
was noted at 60 min which indicated the formation of active NHS ester on the crystal surface 
(step a). When protein G was injected into the flow cell, substantial decrease in frequency shift 
(60 Hz) was observed (step b). The frequency shifts were return closer to the original baseline 
after rinsing with buffer. The non-reacted binding sites were occupied by the addition of 10 mM 
ethanolamine (step c) which resulted in slight frequency change (10 Hz). Followed by antibody 
binding (step d), any unbound and/or nonspecifically bounded antibody was removed from the 
flow cell by rinsing with buffer and stabilization frequency was achieved (step e). The prepared 
biointerface was equipped to capture the target antigen EGFR. When the antigen is introduced 
into flow cell, a considerable decrease in resonance frequency was noted and it is due to the 
specific binding of antigen (1 μg/mL) to the immobilized antibody on the electrode surface (step 
f). The surface was treated with 100 mM NaOH to break the antibody-antigen complex and 
successful regeneration was obtained (step g). At equilibrium withphosphate buffer, the frequency 
reaches a stable value. The working range of the proposed immunosensor was 1 μg/mL based on 
flow-cell mode and it is still comparable with the other previous reports. The minimum detectable 
range of IgE was 2.5 μg/mL using aptamer-based QCM [25]. 
 
3.9. Electrochemical characterization 
The bare Au electrode and a self-assembled thiol monolayer on the gold surface of the 
quartz crystal were electrochemically characterized by cyclic voltammetry. Similarly, activation 
of EDC-NHS by the formation of NHS ester, replacement of active NHS esters by primary 
amines of antibody and binding of antigen onto the immobilized antibodies were subjected to 
electrochemical characterization of the related Au electrode in the presence of 10 mM (Fe(SCN)6 
3-/4-. The cyclic voltammograms were taken before and after each treatment and the results were 
presented in Fig. 12. The pretreated bare Au electrode offered a reversible cyclic voltammogram, 
which indicated the clean unchanged Au surface (curve a). The formation of thiol monolayer on 
the Au electrode provided a highly insulating surface and blocked almost all the faradic currents 
(curve b). Several researchers have also observed the highly insulated gold surface after treatment 
with thiol molecules [26,27]. After activation with EDC/NHS, the thiol monolayer was bit high 
insulating and the current flow was decreased further (curve c). Replacement of the active NHS 
ester by antibody macromolecules reduced the penetration of the redox pair and decreased the 
current response (curve d). Insulation was further improved after binding of the target cells onto 
the immobilized antibodies (curve e). The densely packed thiol molecules on the Au electrode 
resulted in the formation of thick insulating layer (curve b) and hence the subsequent layers on 
the electrode surface did not have much chance to widen the distance of the insulating layer. 
 The surface modification of the quartz crystal followed by the immobilization of antibody 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
SELECTED PUBLICATIONS 
1. Chen, J.-C., Sadhasivam, S., Lin, F.-H. Label free gravimetric detection of epidermal growth 
factor receptor by antibody immobilization on quartz crystal microbalance. Process 
Biochemistry 46 (2), pp. 543-550. (SCI, Impact factor: 2.648, Rank: 17/134) 
2. Savitha, S., Sadhasivam, S., Swaminathan, K., Lin, F.H. Fungal protease: Production, 
purification and compatibility with laundry detergents and their wash performance. 2011, 
Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 42 (2), pp. 298-304. (SCI, Impact 
factor: 0.573, Rank: 94/134) 
3. Lin, W. Y., S. Sadhasivam and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The dose dependent effects of betulin on 
porcine chondrocytes." Process Biochemistry 44(6): 678-684. (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
4. Sadhasivam, S., S. Savitha, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "Metabolically inactive 
trichoderma harzianum mediated adsorption of synthetic dyes: Equilibrium and kinetic 
studies." Journal of the Taiwan Institute of Chemical Engineers 40(4): 394-402. (SCI) 
5. Savitha, S., S. Sadhasivam, K. Swaminathan and F. H. Lin, 2009, "A prototype of proposed 
treatment plant for sago factory effluent." Journal of Cleaner Production 17(15): 1363-1372. 
(SCI, Rank 14/38, IF: 1.362) 
6. Tseng, C. L., W. Y. Su, K. C. Yen, K. C. Yang and F. H. Lin, 2009, "The use of 
biotinylated-egf-modified gelatin nanoparticle carrier to enhance cisplatin accumulation in 
cancerous lungs via inhalation." Biomaterials 30(20): 3476-3485. (SCI, Rank 1/16, IF: 7.365) 
7. Sadhasivam S., Savitha S., Swaminathan K., FH Lin, 2008, “Production, purification and 
characterization of mid-redox potential laccase from a newly isolated Trichoderma harzianum 
WL1”, PROCESS BIOCHEMISTRY, 43:7:736-742, (SCI, Rank 8/114, IF: 2.336) 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Willner I, Katz E. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:1180. 
[2] Bourdillon C, Demaille C, Moiroux J, Save  ´ant JM.  Acc Chem Res 1996, 29:529. 
[3] Blonder R, Katz E, Cohen Y, Itzhak N, Riklin A, Willner I. Anal Chem 1996, 68: 3151. 
[4] Ben-Dov I, Willner I, Zisman E. Anal Chem 1997, 69:3506. 
[5] Patolsky F, Lichtenstein A, Willner I. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:940. 
[6] Czanderna AW, Lu C, in: Walsky, S.P., Czanderna, A.W. (Eds.), Applications of Piezoelectric 
Quartz Crystal Microbalances. Elsevier, New York, 1984. 
[7] Salomon DS, Brandt R, Ciardiello F et al. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 1995, 19:183. 
[8] Arteaga CL. The Oncologist 2002, 7:31. 
[9] Neal DE, Sharples L, Smith K, Fennely J, Harris AL. Cancer 1990, 65:1619. 
[10] Crowther, J. R. The ELISA Guidebook; Humana Press: Totowa, NJ, 2001; Vol. 149. 
[11] Janshoff A, Galla HJ, Steinem C. Angew Chem Int Ed 2000, 39:4004. 
[12] Spangler BD, Boney J, Tyler. Anal Chem Acta 1999, 399: 51-62. 
[13] Adler JF, McCallum J. Analyst 1983, 108:1169–89. 
[14] Sauerbrey GZ. Physik 1959, 91:294. 
[15] Thompson M, Arthur CL, Dhaliwal GK. Anal Chem 1986, 58:1206. 
[16] Storri S, Santoni T, Minunni M, Mascini M. Biosens Bioelectron 1998, 13: 347. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
英文： 
The currently available screening methods for the 
detection of target component of traditional Chinese 
medicine (TCM) are inefficient or costly, such as HPLC, GC, 
GC-MASS, or SPR. Those methods, generally, have to first 
isolate the compounds by using HPLC or GC-MASS and go 
to do the bioassay to prove the biological functions. 
However, most of TCM is not directly to act on the target 
cells. It sometimes stimulates one of tissue cells to secret 
cytokines to further act on the target cells; that causes to 
error screening or miss part of effective compounds from the 
TCM. 
The proposed project is aimed to design a cost effective, 
sensitive screening system for identifying active target 
molecules from traditional chinese herb medicine using 
surface-modified electrochemical quartz crystal 
microbalance. In which, the potential component of the TCM 
will be detected by receptor of interest immobilized on Au 
functionalized crystal surface. In the study, the anti-cancer 
compound will be quickly isolated from the crude extract 
based on the proposed mechanism. For instance, anti-EGFr 
compound will be isolated and enriched on the 
surface-modified quartz plate. The detection is based on 
electronic transduction due to frequency change by molecule 
specific binding. To our knowledge, this is the first report on 
the detection of target component of TCM using EQCM. 
The research was finished as follows: (1) The E-QCM 
device has been set up in lab scale. (2) The electrochemical 
quartz crystal microbalance was connected to the auxiliary 
analog PGSTAT instrument in order to record both the 
electrolytic current and EQCM frequency. (3) The quartz 
plate was surface-modified by model compound to catch the 
target drug to the surface. (3) A simple model was used to 
test the sensitivity and the limitation of the EQCM system 
was compared with ELISA method.  
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本計畫已將 EQCM 組裝完成，連接 PGSTAT 同時記錄電流及頻率
變化；石英板表面將固定一 model component 自溶液中攝取 target 
component，先用簡易的模式，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限，同時與現
有檢測技術做比較。同時完成將 anti-EGFr antibody 接枝在金箔表
面，檢測 EQCM 的偵測極限。最後與 ELISA READER 做比較，結
果優於 ELISA 的效果無論在偵測極限或準確度方面，ELISA 只能
偵測到~10 ug/ml ，本方法偵測極限可達 ng/ml。本計畫完成後，新
的快速中藥篩選方法降設計出來，省事、省時、低費用，藥物篩選
出的同時，可同時瞭解其作用機制，達到篩選、分離、純化、瞭解
作用機制一機完成之目的，未來可用於癌症的早期篩選上。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/15
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 表面修飾電化學石英晶體微天平用於中藥抗癌藥物之快速篩選
計畫主持人: 林峯輝
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-002-009-MY3 學門領域: 生醫材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
辦理學術活動: 1. International Symposium of Materials on Regeneration 
Medicine, Nov, 2010. 2. International Symposium on Blood-derived 
Biomaterials, July, 2011. 
獲得獎項: 得到國際會議最佳論文獎 2件、4件國內年會論文獎。 
重要國際合作: 1. Amit Gefen, Ph.D. Associate Professor in Biomedical 
Engineering, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Faculty of Engineering, Tel Aviv University 
研究成果國際影響力: 2011 年擔任 Ceramics, Cell and Tissue 大會主席, 
Fienza, Italy 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
