however, is the simplest setup for isoclinic and 
isochromatic parameters extraction. Elliptical 
polariscope is used for the minimization of the 
dispersion of the wave plate under illumination of 
different wavelengths. The intercomparison between 
them, including easiness of individual setup, factors 
that affect quality of map and noise reduction of 
calculated phase map has been done in the work. 
Multiple wavelengths isochromatic data are used for 
the check of whether or not its corresponding 
isoclinic data is correct. Thus, it is very useful on 
the isoclinic and isochromatic data retrieval. In 
addition, a range extension algorithm is also 
proposed herein to circumvent the range limitation of 
the earlier temporal phase unwrapping work. With the 
aid of reducing the spatial ambiguities of the first-
stage-error-result, the correct isochromatics can be 
obtained. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Digital photoelasticity, isoclinics, isochromatics, 
temporal phase unwrapping, spatial phase unwrapping 
 
1. 前言與研究目的 
在實驗力學分析中，光彈技術(photoelasticity)伴演著相當重要的角色，透過偏光
儀(polariscope)可取得主應力差值及主應力方向，常結合數位光彈技術以有效地
提供全場各點的資訊，包含等色(isochromatic)參數和等傾角(isoclinic)參數；因
此，如何正確求得相對延遲量和主應力角乃光彈技術重要的議題，計畫針對現有
方法進行探討與系統誤差分析，以Poincare Sphere 進行偏極態的分析，相移法
(phase-stepping method)是藉由不同的偏光儀架設中光學元件的配置來對相對延
遲量和主應力角進行必要的相移，進而運算以得到反正切函數運算的包裹相位
(wrapped phase)，再藉由不同相移光強圖的運算即可方便地取得全場相對延遲量
和主應力角的包裹相位圖 (wrapped phase map)，再透過相位展開 (phase 
unwrapping)的技術即可求得正確的相對延遲量和主應力角。近年來在全場光彈
參數檢測自動化的取得技術上發展很快，通常依需取得的光強圖數和不同的偏光
儀架構來作分類，然不論利用何種偏光儀，所計算出來的與正確的之間會存有幾
項共同問題必須解決；分別為不可定義(undefined)區域及相位展開(ambiguity)
問題，本計畫巳針對上述問題提出解決之道。 
 
2. 文獻探討與研究方法 
前節所述在主應力角中互相影響的部份，可使用時間域的輔助影像來處理，輔助
影像的作法理論有負載相移法 (load-stepping) 和三波長法 (three wavelength) 
兩種；其中負載相移法[1, 2]為由M.J. Ekman 和A.D. Nurse 所提出的理論，藉由
對原受力為P的試片再施加和減少一微小負載ΔP，得到分別受力為P + ΔP、P 、
P - ΔP的三種光強圖，代入相移法公式中即可直接求得無模糊區域問題的
wrapped isochromatics；三波長法也稱為RGB法，為使用三種不同窄頻頻率的光
當光源，分別取得三種光源的三種光強圖，接著再進行多種類的應用。由於輔助
影像的特殊特性，理論上，也就是相對延遲量會受應力和波長等比例的改變而改
變，而主應力角不變，故使用負載相移法或三波長法得到的三種光強圖所計算出
來的相對延遲量與主應力角應該分別為等比例改變和不變，也代表可以得到三種
不同互相影響位置的主應力角，所以只要將互相影響的區域比對代換成其他兩張
其一此區域的正確值即可，由於負載相移法不適用在凍結應力的元件上，為求全
面故大多使用三波長法，A.D. Nurse[3]使用三波長和區域比對方式解決此問題，
由於比對方式需要做掃描以及代換的動作，故需要影像處理的時間，N. 
Plouzennec et al.[4]則改使用兩波長，雖然較少光強圖的取得較能接近即時量測的
效果，但在面對受力大的待測物時準確度會因而下降，G. Petrucci [5]和T. Kihara[6]
一樣使用三波長，但其改變相移法公式使因低模數產生互相影響的結果被相加運
算造成代換的效果而省去比對的處理，以上都是使用單色光源或濾波片，故對一
張光強圖需分別取三次，近年來使用白光光源結合彩色CCD 或數位相機取像的
作法有增加的趨勢[7,8] ，在於不需分三次取，只要從一次的彩色影像中分別擷
取RGB 三種訊號的強度即可，雖方便即時但隨之也會有相機上RGB 的濾波頻
1
判定模糊區域，當然，此法仍需要滿足負載位移法的限制條件，就是其施加的微
小負載換算在相對延遲量中其值不能大於π ；本計畫中亦針對此部份的限制條
件提出擴充法則以解決如應力集中處面臨的問題解決此限制。(請見附錄之投稿
著作 M.J. Huang, F.Y. Lao, and S.C. Liu, “Range extension algorithm for temporal 
phase unwrapping of photoelastic phase map”) 
 
3. 結果與討論 
本研究結合時間域及空間域二種相位展開技術，以進行數位光彈主應力角與主應
力差等相位資訊的展開，可有效克服當前數位光彈領域其相位圖相位展開時面臨
的棘手問題---既相位圖中主應力角與主應力差二者彼此耦合交互作用所造成的
相位模糊的困擾。本研究首先藉由多波長複合多場的時間域平面光彈儀相移影像
之疊加及平均來有效克服單一波長相移影像之特定相位不可定義的問題，接著再
藉由區域型空間域相位展開技術求解主應力角相位圖的真實主應力角相位；此正
確取得的主應力角相位資訊就可用以進行主應力與主應力差二者間的去耦合動
作，之後，此去耦合後的主應力差相位圖可依一般路徑相依(或獨立)型或區域型
空間域相位展開技術進行後續的相位展開，亦可逕以不同波長(屬時間域)的方式
進行主應力差相位的重建。 
 
References： 
1. M.J. Ekman, A.D. Nurse, “Absolute determination of the isochromatic parameter 
by load-steppingphotoelasticity,” Experimental Mechanics, 1998, vol.38, no.3, 
pp.189-195. 
2. M.J. Ekman, A.D. Nurse, “Completely automated determination of 
two-dimensional photoelastic using load stepping,” Optical Engineering, 1998, 
vol.37, no.6, pp.1845-1851. 
3. A.D. Nurse, “Full-field automated photoelasticity by use of a three-wavelength 
approach to phase stepping,” Applied Optics, 1997, vol.36, no.23, pp.5781-5786. 
4. N. Plouzennec, A. Lagarde, “Two-wavelength method for full-field automated 
photoelasticity,” Experimental Mechanics, 1999, vol.39, no.4, pp.274-277. 
5. G. Petrucci, “Full field evaluation of an isoclinic parameter in white light,” 
Experimental Mechanics, 1997, vol.37, no.4, pp.420-426. 
6. T. Kihara, “An arctangent unwrapping technique of photoelasticity using linearly 
polarized light at three wavelengths,” Strian, 2003, vol.39, pp.65-71. 
7. P. Pinit, E. Umezaki, “Full-field determination of principal-stress directions using 
photoelasticity with plane-polarized RGB lights,” Optical Review, 2005, vol.12, 
no.3, pp.228-232. 
8. X.F. Yao, L.H. Jian, W. Xu, G.C. Jin, H.Y. Yeh, “Digital shifting photoelasticity 
with optical enlarged unwrapping technology for local stress measurement,” 
3
Range Extension Algorithm for Temporal Phase Unwrapping of Photoelastic Phase Map 
 
Min-Jui HUANG, Fu-You LAO and 
Shuo-Chieh LIU 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, R.O. C. 
 
Abstract 
This work  ex tends  the  appl ica t ion  range  of  
tempora l  phase  unwrapping  of  photoe las t ic  
i sochromat ics  f rom (0 ,  π )  to a full span, which is 
especially needed around sample loading points. Not only 
temporal comparisons of the isoclinic and isochromatic data 
of each individual sample point under different loading 
conditions are checked, the proposed algorithm also checks 
the spatial continuities of the aforementioned temporal 
retrieving data. By this innovative algorithm, the temporal 
phase unwrapping algorithm can fully expand its applicable 
range. 
 
Key words 
Photoelasticity, Temporal Phase Unwrapping, 
Isoclinic, Isochromatic, Spatial Phase Unwrapping 
 
1. Introduction 
Temporal phase unwrapping is an effective way of phase 
retrieving method, like load stepping method [1] and 
different wavelength method [2,3]. Later, temporal 
unwrapping technique is also applied both on isoclinic as 
well as on isochromatic wrapped phase retrieving. Baldi et. 
al. in 2007 proposed the temporal phase unwrapping 
method [4] to retrieve wrapped data. This algorithm works 
under certain limitation – the differential phase values of 
the comparison pair should be within the range of π, which 
is the essential constrain for firmly applying temporal 
retrieval upon photoelastic phase map.. However, lots of 
area on general tested samples violate this limitation and 
thus leave data of those exceptional areas undetermined.  
This article proposes that, from spatial point of view, it 
is necessary to further check the temporal isoclinic 
unwrapping results to see whether there exist 
discontinuities or not among neighbored data. If any, marks 
all the discontinuity individuals by regions. Then, unwrap 
them alternatively into a continuous distribution and the 
correct isoclinic retrievals can be achieved. Either different 
loadings or alternative wavelengths are applicable. 
Simulations and experimental works are both conducted to 
verify the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm. 
 
2. Earlier temporal phase unwrapping algorithm and its 
limitation 
A load stepping case is utilized herein to depict 
the problem encountered. For any non-zero-
isochromatic-value sample loading point, the true 
phase value of the bigger loading one should be 
larger than that of the smaller loading one. 
However, their wrapped phases don’t obey this 
rule. It is because that the value of the wrapped 
isochromatics depends, according to phase 
stepping digital photoelasticity, not only on the 
principal stress value itself but also on its 
principal stress direction. To simplify the 
dependence relationship between them, Baldi et. 
al. [1] proposed that provided that the true 
isochromatic is constrained in the (0 ,  π )  interval, 
the aforementioned relation violation results only 
from the wrapped isoclinic substitution instead of 
the true isoclinic substitution. Therefore, its 
wrapped isoclinics should be added by π /2 to 
yield its true one. Therefore, the (0 ,  π )  constrain 
becomes the limitation of this rule. The 
isochromatics around sample loading points easily 
go beyond this constrain interval and the rule fails 
there. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.1  I soc l in ic  unwrapped resu l t  by  ear l ie r  
tempora l  phase  unwrapping  a lgor i thm 
 
3. The proposed algorithm 
Physically, the principal stress differences of a loaded 
sample should be continuously distributed. However, since 
the wrapped isochromatics is calculated from the six-field 
grabbed phase-stepping interferograms [5] and the wrapped 
isoclinic, which is also calculated from the grabbed phase-
stepping interferograms, the correctness of the calculated 
isochromatics depend strongly upon the correctness of the 
substituting elements. Either a wrong substitution of the 
wrapped isoclinic or the wrapped isochromatics itself with 
respect to those of its neighbored points can yield a 
discontinuous isochromatic distribution. 
 Based on the continuity requirement of the 
unwrapped isochromatics, the proposed algorithm says that 
no discontinuity can exist in the retrieved isochromatics. If 
there exists any, find them and unwrap them spatially. Most 
data of isoclinic and isochromatic parameter unwrap 
through earlier temporal method would succeed except 
those under vitiated area. A diametric compression disk 
sample along vertical direction is used for demonstration. 
Fig.1 is a hybrid result, with the first quadrant the ambiguity 
zone, the second quadrant the true isochromatic partition, 
the third quadrant the unwrapped isochromatic, and the 
fourth quadrant the areas needed to be spatially unwrapped. 
As shown in Fig.1, the upper left part of the diagram 
displays the true isochromatic partition, each color 
represents one π interval partition. Only for the (0 ,  π )  
in terva l  -  the  orange  one  a lso  the  la rges t  one ,  
i t s  cor rec tness  of  the  tempora l  unwrapped 
resu l ts  a re  guaranteed  by the  a lgor i thm.  I t  i s  
obvious  tha t  a round the  loading  poin t  lo ts  of  
o ther  a rea ,  whose  t rue  i sochromat ic  va lue  a re  
0~
π
2
 
5
Fig.3 shows the six-frame phase stepping 
interferograms (see (a)~(f)) of red light, which together 
with the isoclinic wrapped data (Fig.2(e)) are fed into the 
isochromatic formulation to yield the isochromatic wrapped 
map of Fig.3(g). A different wavelength is needed to 
provide another six-frame phase stepping interferograms. A 
green filter is used and the six grabbed interferograms are 
shown as Fig.4(a)~(f). Similarly, they are substituted with 
isoclinic data into the isochromatic formulation to get the 
isochromatic wrapped map of green light shown as Fig.4(g).  
Since the wavelength of the green light is smaller that that 
of the red light, therefore the true isochromatic phase of the 
green light should be bigger than that of the red light. Their 
wrapped phase differences are checked according to the 
rules of Table 1 and the original isoclinic wrapped map 
Fig.2(e) is corrected and its result is shown as Fig.5(a). It is 
shown that in the central top and button regions, where 
their true isochromatic data are bigger than π and thus 
violate the necessary constrain for the temporal phase 
unwrapping working well. The errors happen in the (π, 2
π), (3π, 4π), (5π, 6π),…… It is also shown that there 
also exist region errors near the circular boundary and it is 
because where the isochromatic values are low also the 
signal to noise ratio are bad too. Not surprised that errors 
are easily to be conducted there. From Fig.5(a), the clear 
discontinuities can be detected by naked eyes and signal 
processing rules. Eliminating the discontinuities yield the 
continuous isoclinics shown as Fig.5(b). 
 
 
             (a)                            (b)                          (c) 
(d)                            (e)                           (f) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                             (g) 
 
Fig.4 The six polarization stepping interferograms for 
isochromatic calculation of green light are shown as (a)~(f) 
and their isochromatic wrapped map is shown as (g). 
 
 
A three point bending test is also conducted on an acrylic 
sample by 53 and 55 kg respectively to perform the load-
stepping experiment. Also use the white light plane 
polariscope to take the four needed interferograms for the 
wrapped isoclinics (see Fig.6) and use the monochromatic 
(red) circular polariscope to take 2 sets of 6 frames 
interferograms to get the wrapped isochromtics (see Fig.7 
and 8). Different from the previous case, where two 
wavelengths are used instead of two incremental loadings to 
conduct temporal phase stepping, in this experiment a 
smaller loading of 53 kg is applied first to take the six phase 
stepping interferograms (Fig.7(a)~(f)) and get the wrapped 
isochromatic (Fig.7(g)). A bigger loading of 55 kg is 
conducted then to get another six interferograms 
(Fig.8(a)~(f)) and also using them the associated wrapped 
isochromatic (Fig.8(g)) can be achieved. Checking the 
difference values of the two load-stepping wrapped 
isochromatics (Figs. 7(g) and 8(g)) founds the ambiguity 
zones where their isoclinic should be added by ±π/2 and 
their isochromatic should be changed in their signs. Finally, 
the spatial discontinuities of the isoclinics (Fig.9(a)) and 
isochromatics  (not shown here) are eliminated by the 
spatial phase unwrapping to conduct the final results (with 
true isoclinic shown as Fig.9(b)). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                       
                                               (a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  
                                                 (b) 
 
Fig.5 The unwrapped isoclinics, where (a) is retrieved by 
the temporal phase unwrapping but ignores the (0, π ) 
isochromatic limitation and (b) is the correction result of (a) 
by spatially unwrapping all the spatial discontinuities. 
 
7
used in the experiment for a diametric compression circular 
disk stress frozen sample. The shorter wavelength of green 
light imitates the bigger loading of the load-stepping case 
and the longer wavelength of red light simulates the smaller 
loading one. In photoelasticity, isoclinic and isochromatic 
data are the two most important parameters, from which the 
principal stress directions and principal stress differences of 
the tested sample can be found. According to the results, 
designers and engineers can estimate and judge the working 
condition of the sample. To decide the isoclinic value the 
exact incremental difference of the two load-stepping loads 
is not really necessary but it is definitely needed to be 
ensured to inversely retrieve the true isochromatics. 
However, the quarter waveplate under two different 
wavelengths can induce certain degree of error and cause 
the error of the unwrapped isochromatic.  
Load-stepping sample as well as stress frozen 
sample under different wavelengths are both used to verify 
the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm, which can fully 
extend the applicable range to the full span including the 
sample loading points where the isochromatic data is much 
bigger than the limitation constrain of earlier temporal phase 
unwrapping rule. 
 
Acknowledgement 
The support provided by the National Science Co u n c i l ,  
T a iw a n ,  u n d e r  g r a n t s  N S C 9 8 - 2 2 2 1 - E - 0 0 5 -
0 0 9  a n d  N S C1 0 0 - 2 2 2 1 - E - 0 0 5 - 0 1 9 is greatly 
appreciated. 
 
References 
[1] Nurse , A .D. : Load-s tepp ing  pho toe las t ic i ty ,   
Optics and Lasers in Engineering., 38 (2002), 57-70. 
[2] Ramesh, K. and Deshmukh, S.S.: Three fringe 
photoelasticity – use of color image processing 
hardware to automate ordering of isochromatics, Strain, 
32 (1996), 79-86. 
[3] Chen, T.Y.: Digital determination of photoelastic 
birefringence using two wavelengths, Experimental 
Mechanics, 37 (1997) 232-236. 
[4] Baldi, A., Bertolino, F. and Ginesu, F.: A temporal phase 
unwrapping algorithm for photoelastic stress analysis, 
O p t i c s  a n d  L a s e r s  i n  E n g i n e e r i n g s, 4 5  
( 2 0 0 7 )  6 1 2 - 6 1 7 .  
[5] Prasad, V.S., Madhu, K.R. and Ramesh, K.: Toward 
effective phase unwrapping in digital photoelasticity, 
O p t i c s  a n d  L a s e r s  i n  E n g i n e e r i n g s, 
4 2 - 4  ( 2 0 0 4 )  4 2 1 - 4 3 6 .  
9
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/09
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 瞬時多波長數位光彈技術之時間域與空間域相位展開比較研究
計畫主持人: 黃敏睿
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-005-019- 學門領域: 其他–機械工程技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
