中文摘要 
 
本文提出一設計馬達輸出運動曲線方法，來
達到快速點到點定位，並減低定位後殘振。首
先，透過頻譜分析儀量測定位系統的動態響應，
並依此分析、建立模擬方程式。再來，將以目前
業界廣用的S-curve運動曲線為基礎，建立出擁
有不同加減速特徵的運動曲線。然後，將整合上
述之方程式，模擬系統在非對稱運動曲線下的動
態響應，並以此搜尋出最適當的運動參數。最後
將以傳統的一般對稱型S-curve，運用定位平台
實際量測以分析驗證模擬結果。 
 
關鍵字：定位時間、非對稱馬達運動曲線、
S-curve、殘振 
 
 
Abstract － A procedure that can be used to 
synthesize motor motion curves with minimized 
positioning time for intermittent indexing tables 
at high speeds is presented.  First, based on the 
measured dynamic characteristic of an indexing 
table, it is then simulated as a 
two-degree-of-freedom (TDOF) system to derive 
the equations of motion.  Subsequently, 
favorable parameters for defining asymmetrical 
motor motion commands by s-curves for the 
modeled indexing table with improved 
kinematic and dynamic performance are 
identified.  To verify the accuracy and 
effectiveness of the proposed approach, 
numerical and experimental results are revealed 
and compared to those obtained by using the 
traditional method.  
    Index Terms －   positioning time, 
asymmetrical motor motion, s-curves, residual 
vibration for indexing table.  
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
To provide point-to-point (PTP) output motions 
needed for automation, intermittent indexing tables 
have widely been employed in various industries.  
For ensuring adequate production volume and 
profit margins, such devices are usually required to 
accurately generate intermittent motions as rapidly 
as possible.  As a result, both of the positioning time 
and dynamic response are major concerns with the 
design of a fast, intermittent indexing table.  The 
typical dynamic response of a PTP device operated 
at high speeds is illustrated in Fig. 1.  In operations, 
when an indexing table is first actuated to access a 
desired position, its subsequent motion is never 
performed until the dynamic response of the table is 
within the range of its prescribed steady-state error.    
Hence, the positioning time of an indexing table is 
equal to the summation of its access time and 
settling time.  
 
 
Fig. 1  Positioning time of a typical positioning 
table 
 
In order to achieve a fast PTP motion, usually the 
input of an actuator with large peaks for its 
acceleration and velocity is highly desired.  But, 
such a motion profile will often overshoot the target 
position with extended settling time.  Moreover, 
since the acceleration for a positioning table is in 
direct proportional to the inertia force imparted to 
its transmission system, an input schemed with a 
large peak for its acceleration may damage the 
device and result in deterioration in its positioning 
precision.  As a result, at the design stage of a fast, 
accurate positioning system, the selection of 
appropriate input motion profiles for actuators must 
be meticulously considered. 
In the past years, many strategies including input 
preshaping approaches [1-14] and feedback 
controllers [15-22] for improving response and 
accuracy of various positioning devices have been 
suggested.  Based on the assumption that the 
impulse response of a linear system was chosen 
correctly, the input shaping technique could result 
in no vibrations [1].  Position control with minimum 
 1
describes experimental results for improved motor 
inputs.  Section V provides a summary of the work 
and conclusion. 
 
II. PC-BASED CONTROL SYSTEM AND 
MODELING 
 
A. PC-based Control System 
 
The PC-based control system for the indexing 
table mentioned in this study is schematically 
illustrated in Fig. 2.  The motion commands given 
to the indexing table through the human machine 
interface is developed by the LabVIEW 6i program 
on a PC.  The motion commands usually are the 
maximum allowable acceleration, velocity, stroke, 
and others.  After receiving motion curves, the 
motion control card sends the message to the servo 
driver for driving its motor.  
 
 
 
Fig. 2  PC-based control system of the indexing 
table 
 
The motor motion control card (PCI-7344) is 
provided by the National Instruments with an 
update rate at 250 μs for its PID feedback controller.  
With a current controlled type driver (Mitsubishi 
MR-J2S-40A), a Mitsubishi HC-KFS43 motor with 
a specification: encoder = 131,072 pulses per 
revolution, rated power = 400 W, continuous rated 
torque ( ) = 1.3 Nm, and rated rotational speed = 
3,000 rpm is used to actuate the ball screw (lead (l) 
= 10 mm/rev) of the indexing table (working range 
= 300 mm, mass ( ) = 11 kg) through a coupling 
installed between the ball screw and the rotor of the 
motor. 
totalT
Tm
 
B. Modeling 
 
In order to identify the dynamic characteristic of 
the indexing table for modeling, the allowable 
linear peak acceleration and velocity must be 
determined.  To obtain the maximum angular 
acceleration ( α ) that can be provided by the 
selected motor for the indexing table, the frictional 
torque ( LT ) on the table and the total inertia moment 
( totalJ ) loaded on the motor must be found.  
Assuming mechanical efficiency (η ) about 0.9 and 
a coefficient of friction ( μ ) about 0.01 between the 
table and its slider, we can express LT  as LT = 
Tm lμ /( 2πη ).  The total inertial moment is decided 
by adding the separate inertia moment of the motor 
rotor ( MJ ), the ball screw ( BJ ), the table ( TJ ), and 
the coupling ( CJ ).  Due to the relationship 
  +  total L totalT T J α= ,  α  can be found as about 3,475 
rps/s.  With the lead of the ball screw, the maximum 
linear acceleration and velocity of the indexing 
table actuated by the motor can be identified as 
34,750  and 500 mm/s, respectively.  For safe 
operations, 30,000 mm/s
2mm/s
2 is then selected as the 
maximum allowable linear acceleration. 
To build the equations of motion for the modeled 
system of the indexing table, the dynamic 
characteristic of the intermittent positioning table 
with its measuring system illustrated in Fig. 3 is 
first observed by giving a step excitation.  The 
dynamic time response of the indexing table 
corresponding to the step input is measured by a 
dynamic signal analyzer (HP 35670A with 
frequency range up to 102.4 kHz and an accuracy of 
30 ppm) with an accelerometer (PCB 353B16 with 
a frequency range of 1 ~ 10 kHz and 10.73 mV/g for 
its sensitivity).  The measured linear output time 
response of acceleration of the device under the step 
input and its frequency response spectrum are 
shown in Fig. 4. 
 
Fig. 3  Schematic illustration of the experimental 
setup 
 3
will serve as a convenient tool to determine the 
motor inputs. 
 
D. Calibration for Output Acceleration 
 
In Fig. 6, to ensure that the motion of the indexing 
table satisfying the required positioning accuracy of  
± 5 mμ  over its each stroke of 20 mm, during the 
initial experiments, a Heidenhain MT 60K linear 
encoder (accuracy = ± 0.5 mμ ) with a Heidenhain 
IK 220 PC counter card (maximum input frequency 
= 33 kHz) installed onto a PC was employed to 
calibrate the output acceleration equivalent to the 
indexing accuracy of ± 5 mμ  for each index.  As 
shown in Fig. 7, the acceleration value identified 
equivalent to the measured indexing accuracy of ± 
5 mμ  was about  ± 860 mm/s2.  As a result, the 
safety value was selected to determine the 
positioning time in consideration of residual 
vibrations when the measured amplitude of the 
acceleration response was decayed within the range 
of  ± 840 mm/s2. 
 
Fig. 6  Indexing table and the dynamic signal 
analyzer 
 
 
Fig. 7 Measured response of the indexing table 
III. DETERMINATION OF ASYMMETRICAL 
INPUTS 
 
A. Synthesis of Asymmetrical Motor Inputs 
The method described here provides a general, 
systematic approach to asymmetrical input motion 
synthesis that overcomes the limitation of regular, 
symmetrical s-curves and the difficulty associated 
with the traditional trapezoidal curves having a 
theoretically infinite value for its jerk.  Based on the 
seven piecewise polynomials for s-curves, the five 
basic parameters and constraints needed to 
synthesize asymmetrical motor inputs must first be 
specified as follows: (i) the stroke: Xmax; (ii) the 
maximum velocity: Vmax; (iii) the maximum 
acceleration: Amaxu; (iv) the maximum deceleration: 
Amaxd; (v) the factor of s-curves: S, (S must be  0).  
Given a PID update rate, the jerk time is t
≥
j = S × PID 
update rate and tj = t1 – t0 = t3 – t2 = t5 – t4 = t7 – t6.  
The jerk curve of such an input is composed of 
seven step functions as 
 
( )
0u 0 1
1 2
0u
J                                                           0 = t t t
0                                                                    t t t
J                                            
J t
≤ ≤
< ≤
−
=
2 3
3 4
0d 4 5
                   t t t
0                                                                    t t t
J                                                               t t t
0                        
< ≤
< ≤
− < ≤
5 6
0d 6 7
                                           t t t
J                                                                 t t t
⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨⎪⎪⎪ < ≤⎪ < ≤⎩
 
Note that J0u = Amaxu / tj and J0d = Amaxd / tj.  Taking 
integration of the jerk curve above yields the 
acceleration as 
( )
( )
( )
0u 0 a1 0 1
a2 1 2
0u 2 a3 2
J t t  + C                                    0 = t t t
C                                                                t t t
J t t  + C                                         t t
A t
− ≤ ≤
< ≤
− − <
=
( )
3
a4 3 4
0d 4 a5 4 5
a6
t
C                                                                t t t
J t t  + C                                        t t t
C                                                           
≤
< ≤
− − <
( )
5 6
0d 6 a7 6 7
    t t t
J t t  + C                                          t t t
⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨⎪⎪⎪
≤
< ≤⎪ − < ≤⎩
 
 
Ca1 ~ Ca7 are the seven constants of integration and 
can be found as C  = , 
, 
 
, 
( )a1 0 A t  = 0
aC = A t  = A
a5 4= A t  = 0
0( ) ( )a2 1 u 2 maxuC  = A t  = J t t  = A−
3 2( ) ,a m xu 0( ) ( ) ,a4 3 u 3 2 maxuC = A t  = J t t + A = 0− −
C ( ) , ( ) ( )a6 5 0d 5 4 maxdC  = A t  = J t t  = A− − −
 5
( )X t of the motor input can be determined. 
 
B. Effect of S Factor on Positioning Time 
 
As described earlier, in defining such an input 
based on the seven piecewise polynomials, the jerk 
time (tj) is affected by the selection of an S factor.  
By fixing other four basic parameters in defining 
J(t), increasing the S factor will increase the access 
time.  However, the change rate for 
acceleration/decleration will become less severe.  
Moreover, the intensity for its residual vibration 
may be alleviated.  Therefore, the S factor must be 
meticulously chosen since the positioning time may 
be shortened due to its substantially reduced settling 
time. 
To know the effect of  the S factor on the 
synthesized motor input as well as on the 
kinematic/dynamic characteristic of the indexing 
table, the positioning time is simulated through (5) 
by fixing other four parameters: Amaxu, Amaxd, Vmax, 
and Xmax at ± 30,000 mm/s2, 500 mm/s, and 20 mm, 
respectively, for the TDOF model.  To keep the 
table having these prescribed maximum values, the 
upper bound for the S factor is about 115.  Hence, 
the observed S factors are set by 0  and 
normalized into the range of [0, 1].  When S = 0 is 
utilized, it has a shortest access time and the 
resulting motion curve degenerates into a 
traditional, trapezoidal motor input.  The computed 
maximum and minimum positioning times are 
normalized into the range of [0, 1]. 
  S  115≤ ≤
Fig. 9 shows the calculated normalized 
positioning times corresponding to their normalized 
S factors.  It can be seen that increasing the S factor 
increases the positioning time in the first half of the 
simulated range.  In the second half of the simulated 
range, the step-shaped result is obtained for the 
normalized positioning time that is gradually 
reduced.  And interestingly, in some specific ranges, 
the increment of the normalized S factors can 
substantially decrease the positioning time.  Though 
the use of a relatively large value for the S factor 
may cut down the positioning time, it must be 
careful to choose an appropriate S factor because 
the prescribed maximum acceleration/deceleration 
may not be reached by using a large S factor.  If 
such a situation happens, the positioing time will 
increase.  To overcome this difficulty, a relatively 
small value for the S factor can be considered. 
 
 
Fig. 9  Positioning time and S factor 
 
C. Tuning Kinematic Parameters for Asymmetrical 
Inputs 
 
To further see the effects of changing Amaxu, Amaxd, 
Vmax, and S on the positioning time for various 
designed symmetrical motor inputs, a series of 
computer simulations was performed by fixing Xmax 
= 20 mm.  For obtaining a minimum positioning 
time, in each case, 0 ≤  S ≤  115 was scanned with a 
step of  SΔ  = 2.5.  Also, Amaxu and the absolute 
value for Amaxd from 10,000 mm/s2 to 30,000 mm/s2 
with a step of 500 mm/s2 and 200 mm/s ≤  Vmax ≤  
500 mm/s with a step of 5 mm/s are used. 
Fig. 10 illustrates the calculated positioning 
times for the modeled TDOF indexing table 
corresponding to different combinations of 
velocities and accelerations/decelerations that are 
equal to or less than the values of ± 30,000 mm/s2 
and  500 mm/s for the prescribed maximum 
allowable acceleration/deceleration and velocity, 
respectively.  In this 3-D simulated results, the 
shortest positioning time (0.1161 s) is located at the 
point where Amaxu and Amaxd  = ± 14,000 mm/s2  and 
Vmax  = 375 mm/s.  Also, together with Amaxu, Amaxd, 
and Vmax, the S factor was found at 105. 
Based on the computed positioning times showed 
in Fig. 10 for synthesized symmetrical inputs which 
have the same absolute values for their Amaxu and 
Amaxd, they are further investigated here by setting 
Amaxu = 14,000 mm/s2 and Vmax = 375 mm/s 
suggested from the simulations above.  In 
consideration of reducing the intensity of residual 
vibartions for shortening the settling time,  the 
effect of varying Amaxd together with its S factor on 
the positioning time for Xmax = 20 mm is further 
 7
Among the four cases, Case I is with the 
maximum allowable Amaxu, Amaxd, and Vmax, and a 
small value of 22 for its S factor.  As a result, it has a 
shortest access time to reach the prescribed stroke 
of the indexing table.  Shown in Fig. 13, its 
positioning time is 0.1943 s due to a long settling 
time to decay its residual vibrations for satisfying 
the requirement of indexing accuracy. 
 
 
Fig. 13  Measured output acceleration for Case I 
 
Compared to Case I, the maximum velocity is 
reduced from 500 mm/s to 300 mm/s in Case II, the 
output time response together with its positioning 
time of 0.1655 s is plotted in Fig. 14.  In comparison 
to the result shown in Fig. 13 for Case I, Case II has 
a quicker positioning even though its motor input is 
defined with a lowest value for Vmax among the four 
cases. With a symmetrical motor input defined by 
the tuned kinematic parameters especially with a 
large S factor for Case III indicated in Table I, the 
dynamic time response of the indexing table is 
given in Fig. 15. Note that the positioning 
time is greatly reduced to 0.1143 s. 
 
 
Fig. 14  Measured output acceleration for Case II 
 
 
Fig.15  Measured output acceleration for Case III 
 
Based on the kinematic parameters having a fast 
acceleration and a slow deceleration for Case IV 
given in Table I, Fig. 16 shows the experimental 
result of the dynamic behavior of the indexing table 
with a shortest positioning time of 0.1108 s among 
the four cases.  In this case, even though its absolute 
value for Amaxd is less than that used in Case III, the 
resulting asymmetrical motor input not only 
effectively suppresses the amplitude of primary 
vibrations but also further shortens the positioning 
time.  Other asymmetrical motor inputs with 
favorable kinematic parameters for improved 
residual vibrations can also be found in a similar 
manner. 
 
 
Fig. 16  Measured output acceleration for Case IV 
Table II summarizes access and positioning 
times for the above four cases.  As mentioned above, 
because Case I is with the maximum allowable 
Amaxu, Amaxd, and Vmax of the indexing system, it has 
a computed shortest access time.  However, due to 
the inertia effect, it needs a longer settling time to 
phase out its residual vibrations.  In Cases III and IV, 
 9
Mechatronics, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 12-22, March 
2000. 
[13] C. Guarino Lo Bianco and R. Zanasi, "Smooth 
profile generation for a tile printing machine," 
IEEE Trans. on Industrial Electronics, vol. 50, 
no. 3, pp. 471-477, June 2003. 
[14] B. H. Chang and Y. Hori, "Trajectory design 
considering derivative of jerk for 
head-positioning of disk drive system with 
mechanical vibration," IEEE Trans. on 
Mechatronics, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 273-279, 
June 2006. 
[15] T. Umeno and Y. Hori, "Robust speed control 
of dc servomotors using modern two 
degrees-of-freedom controller design," IEEE 
Trans. on Industrial Electronics, vol. 38, no. 5, 
pp. 363-368, Oct. 1991. 
[16] K. Sugiura and Y. Hori, "Vibration 
suppression in 2- and 3-mass system based on 
the feedback of imperfect derivative of the 
estimated torsional torque," IEEE Trans. on 
Industrial Electronics, vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 56-64, 
Feb. 1996. 
[17] W. Li and Y.  Hori, "Vibration suppression 
using neuron-based PI fuzzy controller and 
fractional-order disturbance observer," IEEE 
Trans. on Industrial Electronics, vol. 54, no. 1, 
pp. 117-126, Feb. 2007. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[18] Y. Hori, H. Sawada, and Y. Chun, "Slow 
resonance ratio control for vibration 
suppression and disturbance rejection in 
torsional system" IEEE Trans. on Industrial 
Electronics, vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 162-168, Feb. 
1999. 
[19] L. Yi and M. Tomizuka, 
"Two-degree-of-freedom control with robust 
feedback control for hard disk servo systems," 
IEEE Trans. on Mechatronics, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 
17-24, Mar. 1999. 
[20] B. K. Kim and W. K. Chung, "Advanced  
disturbance observer design for mechanical 
positioning systems," IEEE Trans. on 
Industrial Electronics, vol. 50, no. 6, pp. 
1207-1216, Dec. 2003. 
[21] B. K. Kim, S. Park, and W. K. Chung, "Robust 
controller design for PTP motion of vertical 
XY positioning systems with a flexible beam," 
IEEE Trans. on Mechatronics, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 
99-110, Mar. 2003. 
[22] K. Itoh, M. Iwasaki, and N. Matsui, "Optimal  
design of robust vibration suppression 
controller using genetic algorithms," IEEE 
Trans. on Industrial Electronics, vol. 51, no. 5, 
pp. 947-953, Oct. 2004. 
[23] S. S. Rao, Mechanical Vibrations, Pearson 
Prentice Hall, 2004. 
 11
淨的氣渦輪機之設計與製造便成為目前的研發重點，於演說中亦說明了目前的發
展趨勢與目標。重要的活動為當晚於柏林的德意志科技博物館內，舉行盛大雞尾
酒歡迎晚會，贊助單位除了提供各式各樣的可口三明治與精緻點心外，亦以啤
酒、白葡萄酒、紅葡萄酒及氣泡酒等代表性飲料，招待參與大會的專家與學者。
到場的人士大約有七百人，把整個博物館各個樓層給佔的滿滿的﹗美食、佳釀配
上德國科技歷史工藝技術品之感染，與會各國人士無不忘了語言隔閡、文化差
異，而談興大開，我們在會中除與一些來自大陸、美國各地的華裔人士聊瞭些各
自研究近況，也與一批來自北歐學者談了些兩地教育體制的差異性，他們都非常
肯定推崇華人近年在氣渦輪機方面之研究績效。 
為了增添活動內涵，除了上述之技術論文宣讀、設備使用者討論會與展示會
等正式活動外，地主與大會亦同時安排了各項參訪活動。願提供受訪的機構計有
位於市郊的ALSTOM公司氣渦輪機與發電機保修廠、位於柏林東南方的Anecom
高壓壓縮機測試設備、Rolls-Royce以及 SIEMENS之重負載燃氣輪機測試中心。
本屆大會能成功舉辦，主要亦獲 GE公司、Rolls-Royce 公司、SIEMENS公司等
等國際著名渦輪製造公司與其它單位的熱情贊助。 
 
二、與會心得 
針對氣渦輪機與空用引擎技術所涵蓋的範圍，大會的技術委員會細分為飛機
引擎、陶瓷材料、煤及生化與替代燃料、燃燒與燃料、控制及診斷與量測、循環
與創新、教育、電力與汽電共生、環境與法規、熱傳、工業與汽電共生、製造材
料與冶金、海洋、管線與應用、結構與動力學、渦輪機械、車輛用及小型渦輪機
械等三十三項核心技術領域。我等論文隸屬於製造材料與冶金以及結構與動力
學。筆者的論文配安排在—汽渦機製造與材料，宣讀時間為六月九日下午兩點三
十分至五點三十分，論文題目為 Removing Tool Marks for Impellers in Five-Axis 
Machining with Improved Interference-Free Tool Paths，主席由任職於美國
Southwest Research Institute的 Sastry Cheruvu博士擔任。本場次的主題是在探討
Blisks及 Impellers的製造與冶金問題，本分組共計有六篇論文，分別來自美國、
中國、巴西、德國與加拿大，本場次論文發表自世界著名的航太零組件製造廠以
及研究單位。光灼華教授的論文宣讀時間被安排在六月十一日下午兩點三十分至
五點三十分，論文題目為 Dynamic Characteristics of Composite Helicopter Blade 
Chile 1 
China 81 
Columbia 1 
Czech 
Republic 3 
Egypt 1 
Finland 4 
France 19 
Germany 137 
Greece 6 
Hungary 1 
India 16 
Iran 11 
Ireland 1 
Israel 2 
Italy 62 
Japan 38 
Malaysia 1 
Mayotte 2 
Mexico 4 
Netherlands 3 
Norway 10 
Poland 7 
Portugal 1 
Qatar 1 
Romania 4 
Russia 10 
Saudi Arabia 2 
South Africa 3 
South Korea 13 
Spain 9 
Sweden 18 
Switzerland 38 
Taiwan 8 
Turkey 3 
UK 100 
Ukraine 2 
USA 327 
Venezuela 2 
 
be avoided in milling, infinite combinations of rotating and 
tilting angles are still possible.  As a result, interference-free 
tool paths with local millability and reverse movements of 
moving axes in finish milling may still be generated.  Since 
such a change of motion directions of moving axes along a tool 
path can enlarge the effect of any existing clearances in 
transmission elements on machine tools, it will result in a kind 
of a gouge problem.  Furthermore, unexpected tool marks will 
then be left on the machined impeller surfaces. 
To overcome the problem mentioned above, a procedure that 
can be used to determine CL data for 5-axis tool paths without 
leaving tool marks on the surfaces of impellers in finish milling 
is developed.  To scheme preliminary cutter paths for rough 
and semi-finish cuts, a simple yet useful method is proposed to 
produce global 5-axis interference-free CL data with local 
millability by approximating blade surfaces of an impeller as 
ruled surfaces with sufficient offsets.  In the subsequent step, 
the track of each angular motion axis of a 5-axis tool path is 
observed for any change of its motion directions.  Once a 
reverse motion is identified, the CL data are then adjusted and 
smoothed by the least squares B-spline approach.  To illustrate 
the feasibility of the procedure, an experimental cutting test is 
given by the use of the proposed algorithms in 5-axis milling of 
a complex centrifugal compressor impeller. 
Hub camberline 
Q(u) 
oZ  Shroud camberline 
P(u) 
r
2   BACKGROUND 
To determine global interference-free 5-axis cutter paths for 
rough and semi-finish cuts, the geometric representation of an 
impeller will be briefly discussed here. 
2.1 Blade, Hub, and Offset Surfaces: 
As shown in Figure 1, in the design stage of an impeller, basic, 
discrete geometric data sets given in a cylindrical coordinate 
system can be interpolated to define the shroud camberline, 
, and the hub camberline, . )(uP )(uQ
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Interpolated hub and shroud camberlines.  
Usually blade surfaces of an impeller are defined by ruled 
surfaces or can be closed approximated by ruled surfaces from 
point of view of manufacturing [6].  Also, the camber surface 
of a blade surface illustrated in Figure 2 can be expressed as 
))()(()(),( uPuQvuPvuR −+=                              
       (1) 10 ,10  )()()1( ≤≤≤≤+−= vuuvQuPv
Once the camber surface of a blade is obtained, its pressure and 
suction surfaces can be further written as 
v
vuR
u
vuR
v
vuR
u
vuR
dvuRvuRo
∂
∂×∂
∂
∂
∂×∂
∂
±=
),(),(
),(),(
5.0),(),(         (2) 
in terms of offset surfaces of the camber surface.  Note that d 
shown in (2) is the blade thickness.  By rotating the hub 
camberline of an impeller about its centerline ( -axis), the hub 
surface can be given in the form 
oZ
)()(),( vRuQvuS
oz=                             (3) 
where is the rotational transformation matrix about the 
centerline of the impeller. 
)(vR
oz
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Ruled camber surface. 
The smaller the radius of curvature, the more severe is the stress 
concentration.  To avoid local gouge and to relieve the sudden 
geometry changes leading to sharp corners between blade and 
hub surfaces, rounded fillets with large radii of curvature are 
required for design and machining considerations.  To 
smoothly connect blade and hub surfaces, blending surfaces can 
be constructed with constant radii.  The centers of rounded 
fillets for a blending surface can be determined by the 
intersection line between the two offset surfaces of a blade 
surface and a hub surface by the solution of nonlinear equations.  
Such an intersection line is also the trajectory of the cutter 
center of a ball end mill in 5-axis milling. 
2.2 Transformation of CL Data to NC data: 
Depending on the configuration of a selected 5-axis machine, a 
specific postprocessor must be developed to transform global 
interference-free CL data to 5-axis NC data.  With reference to 
Figure 3 for the configuration of a 5-axis machine tool used in 
this study, the postprocessor will be described here. 
In Figure 3, intersection point of A-axis and C-axis is set as the 
origin of the machine coordinate system.  For a 5-axis 
accessible CL data, the coordinates of its cutter center ( ) and 
the vector of its cutter axis ( ) can be determined.  The 
rotating angle, 
cP
T
zφ , around C-axis and the tilting angle, xφ , 
around A-axis corresponding to the CL data, can be computed as 
follows.  As shown in Figure 4, the rotating angle, zφ , can be 
written as  
2                              Copyright © 2008 by ASME 
the block. 
As mentioned earlier, if the blade surface is not defined by a 
ruled surface, it can be approximately enclosed by a ruled 
surface to find the initial tool axis vector.  Since this method 
has taken the most critical CC points and the geometric feature 
of ruled blade surfaces into account, it can quickly provide 
global interference-free CL data.  Moreover, in the tool path 
planning process, to ensure that the machined impeller surfaces 
are without any left tool marks, local gauging must be identified 
and removed.  If tool marks exist, the obtained preliminary 
5-axis CL data have to be adjusted and further checked for any 
global collision.  With reference to Figure 7, the center of a 
cylindrical tool with a directional vector parallel to the Z-axis 
shown in Figure 3 is placed on the offset surfaces of the hub and 
its blade surfaces.  For a specific height along the Z-axis, the 
detection of interference is conducted by comparing the radius 
of the cutter to the length between a CC point and the tool axis 
projected on the X-Y plane.  If the distance is shorter than that 
of the tool radius, interference is detected. 
 
Figure 7.  Global interference detection. 
4   TOOL PATHS FOR REMOVING TOOL MARKS 
For removing tool marks left on a machined impeller surface in 
finish cuts due to reverse movements with moving axes, the 
strategy is to modify the cutter postures of a tool path   by 
smoothing its rotating and tilting movements.  In order to 
identify if a preliminary interference-free 5-axis tool path has 
reverse movements, its angular positions for A-axis and C-axis 
movements must first be transformed to form angular 
displacement curves.  If angular displacement curves of A-axis 
and C-axis with reverse movements are detected, their angular 
positions are then modified and smoothed to change the tool 
attitudes. 
Since the tool postures are adjusted to avoid reverse movements, 
new tool center positions for the varied tool postures need be 
computed.  And the smoothed tool path must be further 
examined for global collisions.  If such a modification results 
in a global interference problem, the tool path can be adjusted 
by increasing the angle about C-axis. 
4.1. Practical Implementation: 
Based on an appropriate tool size, the procedure for removing 
reverse movements with A-axis and C-axis along a tool path can 
be described in a step-wise fashion in the following outline. 
(1)  Determine the angular positions of A-axis and C-axis 
based on initial tool axis vectors along a tool path. Since the 
tip of a cylindrical ball end cutter has the lowest cutting 
efficiency, the direction of the cutter-axis should not be 
collinear to that of the CC point normal [5]. 
(2)  Transform angular positions of a rotational axis obtained 
above to form angular displacement curves and to see any 
reverse movements.  If reverse movements do not exist, 
coordinate values for axes of X, Y, Z, A, and C are recorded 
for machining and then go to Step (9). 
(3)  Modify angular displacements of A-axis and C-axis within 
a limit to avoid reverse movements. 
(4)  Smooth the angular positions corresponding to the 
modified angular displacements above by using the least 
squares method with four cubic B-splines. 
(5)  Check A-axis and C-axis for any reverse movements.  If 
reverse movements still appear, go back to Step (3). 
(6)  Calculate the new tool center positions for the varied tool 
postures and examine the adjusted tool path for 5-axis 
accessibility.  If it is 5-axis accessible, coordinate values 
for the five axes are recorded and then go to Step (9).  
X 
Tool center point CC point 
Interference points 
X
Y Tool cross section  Z 
Interference-free 
points 
(7)  Increase the rotating angle of C-axis by an increment of 
CΔ  about 1 ~ 2 degrees and compute the new tool centers 
before detecting any interference.  If it becomes 5-axis 
accessible, values for axes of X, Y, Z, A, and C are recorded 
for machining and go to Step (9).  Otherwise, increase the 
rotating angle of C-axis again without exceeding the 
maximum allowable angle, Cmax, indicated in Figure 6 and 
repeat the same process.  If interference still appears with 
the maximum allowable angle, Cmax, go to the next step. 
(8)  Use a small tool for finish cutting and go to Step (1). 
(9)  Finish the tuning task.  
4.2. Modification of Reverse Movements for A-Axis and 
C-Axis: 
As illustrated in Figure 8, if the angular displacement of a 
rotational axis is found with reverse movements, the 
displacement values in the range having a different direction 
need be shifted by plus or minus an angle of Lφ  to ensure that 
the complete angular displacements have the same moving 
direction along the tool path.  Based on the changed angular 
displacements, their new angular positions have to be smoothed  
by the least squares method with four cubic B-splines as basis 
functions.  Then the approximated angular displacement curve 
of the smoothed angular positions is checked.  If reverse 
movements still exist, in an iterative way, the angular 
displacement curve is shifted by a value of Lφ  again.  Such a 
process is finished, when the angular positions of A-axis and 
C-axis are free of reverse movements along a tool path. 
Since the angular positions of A-axis and C-axis are changed, 
5-axis accessibility along the tool path must be checked.  As 
stated earlier, if an interfering situation found, the rotating angle 
of C-axis can be increased by an increment of CΔ  step by step 
to avoid it.  As shown in Figure 6, the maximum allowable 
4                              Copyright © 2008 by ASME 
Figures 10 illustrates the angular and translational positions of a 
preliminary 5-axis tool path with 475 CC points from the 
leading edge to the trailing edge along the intersection curve of 
the pressure surface and the hub surface.  Note that in Figure 
10 the units for the vertical coordinate are mm for translational 
axes and degree for rotational axes.  Especially, to confirm that 
the tool path was free of interference in finish cuts, the 475 CC 
points all passed the examination for 5-axis accessibility.  A 
photograph of the machined pressure surface without any 
interference is shown in Figure 11.  However, it can be seen 
that there are four areas for tool marks left on the machined 
pressure surface.  Even with a reduction of the cutting feed rate 
from 3,000 mm/min to 500 mm/min, the tool marks were still 
there. 
Figure 12 shows the angular and translational velocity curves 
obtained by transforming the angular and translational positions 
of the tool path plotted in Figure 10.  It can be observed that 
reverse tool movements appeared with A-axis, X-axis, Y-axis, 
and Z-axis.  More importantly, as indicated in Figure 12, the 
velocities with zero values for the angular velocity curve of 
A-axis match the areas where the tool marks presented in Figure 
11. 
 
Figure 10. Tool path for finish cuts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Tool marks left on pressure surface. 
 
Figure 12. Velocity curves with reverse movements. 
To remove the tool marks left on the machined blade surfaces, 
the angular positions corresponding to the regions where reverse 
movements presented about A-axis in Figure 12 are then 
adjusted and approximated by least squares cubic B-splines.  
As mentioned earlier, once the rotational positions are changed, 
their new tool centers must be calculated.  Also, the modified 
tool path must be further checked for 5-axis accessibility.  For 
improving the tool path illustrated in Figure 10, Figure 13 shows 
the tuned angular and translational velocity curves without 
reverse movements through adjusting angular positions about 
A-axis.  The resulting angular and translational positions of the 
smoothed 5-axis accessible tool path are plotted in Figure 14.  
Obviously, the smoothed tool path no longer has reverse 
movements for each axis. 
Based on the tuned 26 tool paths, Figure 15 shows the 
photograph of the machined pressure surface.  As a glance at 
Figure 15, the tool marks were successfully removed from the 
pressure surface.  The effectiveness of the developed procedure 
was thus experimentally confirmed.  The photograph of the 
completely machined impeller is shown in Figure 16.  It can 
also be seen that the suction surfaces were all free of tool marks. 
 
 
Figure 13. Velocity curves without reverse movements. 
Tool marks
 
Figure 14. Tuned tool path. 
 
Figure 15. Tool marks removed from the pressure surface. 
6                              Copyright © 2008 by ASME 
