 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract—A hybrid design of coplanar waveguide-fed printed antenna with and 
without back conductor is presented. The coplanar waveguide-fed printed 
antenna consists of slits embedded side-plane conductors (ground planes of 
coplanar waveguide) and an inverted-C grounded strip connected by a protruded 
signal line of the coplanar waveguide. For the hybrid design with back conductor, 
triple resonance is achieved and the impedance bandwidth is effectively enlarged. 
When the back conductor is absent, the proposed design of the same geometric 
parameters operates around the same frequency band with good antenna 
performance because the changed resonant behavior has been considered. 
Different resonant behaviors and radiation characteristics of the proposed design 
with and without back conductor are discussed. The design details are presented. 
Simulated and measured results are also presented.  
 
Index Terms — Conductor-backed coplanar waveguide, coplanar waveguide, 
printed antennas. 
 
 
 
摘要—本研究提出一種共面波導饋入印刷天線的混合設計，可同時適用於有及
無金屬背板的共面波導。該天線由內含嵌入式狹縫的邊板(共面波導的接地金屬
板)及從共面波導信號線延伸出的反 C型帶線組成。當有金屬背板時，由於有三
重共振，阻抗頻寬可有效地變寬；當金屬背板不存在時，由於改變的共振現象已
納入考慮，所以相同的幾何構造可以在相同的頻率運作，而仍保有良好的天線特
性。本研究對在有及無金屬背板的情況下之共振現象及輻射特性都有討論。設計
細節會詳細說明，數值模擬及實驗結果也會提出及說明。 
 
關鍵詞：被覆金屬板共面波導、共面波導、印刷天線。 
 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-002-221-MY2 
執行期限：100年 8月 1日至 102年 7月 31日 
主持人：許博文       國立台灣大學電信工程學研究所 
計畫參與人員：呂彥儒、陳君朋、楊仲凱、童韻儒        台大電信所 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
 
 
可同時工作在有及無背覆金屬板之共面波導饋入天線 
CPW-Fed Antennas Operating Simultaneously With and Without 
Back-Conductor 
 3 
II. ANTENNA STRUCTURE AND DESIGN 
 
Fig. 1 shows the hybrid design of CPW-fed printed antenna with and without BC. 
The gray area represents the layout of CPW-fed printed antenna on the top side of the 
substrate. The light gray area represents the substrate of length Lsub and width Wsub. The 
lower edge of the CPW feed-line is connected to a subminiature version A (SMA) 
connector, so the lower edge of the CPW-fed printed antenna is aligned to that of the 
substrate. The dark gray area as only shown in Fig. 1(a) represents the BC of length LBC 
and width WBC on the back side of the substrate.  
 
CBCPW and CPW feed-lines have the same signal width S and gap width G as shown 
in Fig. 1(a) and (b). As described in [9], CBCPW is a combination of CPW and 
microstrip-line. To have the properties of CBCPW tend to approach that of CPW, the 
electric coupling across the gaps of CBCPW should be as large as possible. The gap G 
should be chosen as small as possible. The S is determined to have characteristic 
impedances (Z0s) of CBCPW and CPW close to 50 . 
 
Fig. 1(a) shows the CPW-fed printed antenna with BC. Each side-plane conductor 
embedded with a slit of length LS and width WS has dimensions L1, L2, and L3. The 
lengths L1, L2, and L3 are roughly equal to half wavelengths in the substrate at three 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1. The geometry of the hybrid design of CPW-fed printed antenna. (a) 
With BC and (b) without BC.  
 
 5 
III. SIMULATION AND MEASUREMENT RESULTS 
 
For measurement, two CPW-fed printed antennas of the same geometry parameters 
are fabricated on substrates with and without BC, respectively. Fig. 2 shows the 
simulated and measured input reflection coefficients of the antennas with and without 
BC. The discrepancies between simulated and measured results may be due to the 
manufacturing errors. For the measured results, it still can be seen that the antennas 
with and without BC have three and one resonant frequencies, respectively. The 
measured impedance bandwidths of the antennas with and without BC are 9.9% and 
14%, respectively. The measured overlapping impedance bandwidth is 9.9% 
(2.395–2.646 GHz). It shows that the proposed hybrid design can adapt itself to the 
presence or absence of BC with good impedance matching over a frequency band.  
 
Parametric studies are conducted and plotted in Figs. 3 and 4. Fig. 3 shows the 
   
(a) 
   
(b) 
Fig. 3.  Simulated input reflection coefficients of variations of L1, L2, 
and L3 that are in a fixed ratio of 1:0.959:0.988. (a) With BC and (b) 
without BC. 
 
 7 
the resonant frequencies of the hybrid design with BC are controlled by the lengths L1, 
L2, and L3. When the lengths L1, L2, and L3 simultaneously increase, the three resonant 
frequencies simultaneously decrease. Fig. 3 (b) shows that only one resonant frequency 
is observed. When the BC is absent, the side-plane conductors are the ground planes. 
The small perturbations of the ground planes (variations of L1, L2, and L3) have a small 
effect on the resonant behavior of the hybrid design without BC, so the resonant 
frequency is almost unchanged. Fig. 4 shows the simulated input reflection coefficients 
of variations of WC and LC with a fixed ratio of 10.9 while keeping other parameters 
unchanged. Fig. 4(a) shows that the resonant frequencies of the hybrid design with BC 
remain almost unchanged. Fig. 4(b) shows that simultaneously increasing WC and LC 
simultaneously decreases the resonant frequency of the hybrid design without BC. Figs. 
3 and 4 show that the resonant frequencies of the hybrid design with and without BC are 
mainly controlled by the dimensions of the side-plane conductors (L1, L2, and L3) and 
the dimensions of the inverted-C grounded strip (WC and LC), respectively. With and 
without BC, the hybrid design of CPW-fed printed antenna shows the capability of 
controlling separate resonant frequencies to maximize the overlapping impedance 
bandwidth. 
 
Fig. 5(a) shows the simulated surface current distribution on the top metal layer of 
antenna with BC at 2.45 GHz. The WBC and LBC of BC are the same as Wsub and Lsub of 
substrate, respectively, so the BC is invisible in Fig. 5(a). The gaps of CBCPW are too 
small to be clearly seen. The side-plane conductors are strongly excited by the leaky 
MSL mode and the inverted-C grounded strip. It can be seen that the side-plane 
conductors are the upper ground planes of CBCPW feed-line and the main radiators. 
Fig. 5(b) shows the simulated surface current distribution on the top metal layer of the 
hybrid design without BC at 2.45 GHz. When the BC is absent, there is no leaky MSL 
mode and the side-plane conductors are ground planes of CPW. The current would not 
spread over the side-plane conductors, so the small variations of L1, L2, and L3 have a 
small effect on the resonant path of the hybrid design without BC. It can be observed 
that the simulated current distribution on the inverted-C grounded strip undergoes 
approximately one period of cosine curve. Fig. 5 shows that the hybrid design with and 
without BC have totally different current distributions and they have different resonant 
behaviors. The proposed hybrid design has the capability of adjusting the almost 
independent resonant paths with and without BC. 
 
Figs. 6 and 7 show the gain patterns of the hybrid design with and without BC at 2.45 
GHz, respectively. The antenna under test is measured in the anechoic chamber and it is 
fed by a coaxial cable from the −x direction. The E- and H-plane patterns are taken in 
the x-z and y-z planes, respectively. From the figures, the hybrid design with and 
without BC have the same co-polarization. The simulated |E | in the x-z plane is 
invisible because it is smaller than the lower bound (−30 dBi) of the radial axis. The 
discrepancies between simulated and measured radiation patterns are mainly due to the 
inevitable feeding coaxial cable. In [10], the different influences of feeding coaxial 
cable on the measured radiation patterns of different types of antennas have been 
demonstrated. In this work, the different resonant behaviors of the hybrid design with 
and without BC are shown in this section. It can be seen that the hybrid design without 
BC has more ripples in the measured x-z plane |E | component near the broadside 
 9 
bidirectional radiation pattern and it operates around the same frequency band with 
good impedance matching. The measured overlapping impedance bandwidth is 9.9%. 
The totally different resonant behaviors and radiation characteristics of the hybrid 
design with and without BC are investigated and they are considered in the hybrid 
design. The hybrid design can adapt itself to the presence or absence of BC with good 
antenna performance. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] R. N. Simons, Coplanar Waveguide Circuits, Components, and Systems. New York: 
Wiley, 2001, ch.1 to ch.3. 
[2] C.-C. Tien, C.-K. C. Tzuang, S. T. Peng, and C.-C. Chang, “Transmission 
characteristics of finite-width conductor-backed coplanar waveguide,” IEEE Trans. 
Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 41, no. 9, pp. 1616–1624, Sep. 1993. 
[3] H. Shigesawa, M. Tsuji, and A. A. Oliner, “Conductor-backed slot line and 
coplanar waveguide: Dangers and full-wave analyses,” in IEEE MTT-S Int. Microw. 
Symp. Dig., 1988, pp. 199–202. 
[4] W.-T. Lo, C.-K. C. Tzuang, S. T. Peng, C.-C. Tien, C.-C. Chang, and J.-W. Huang, 
“Resonant phenomena in conductor-backed coplanar waveguides (CBCPW’s),” 
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 41, no. 12, pp. 2099–2108, Dec. 1993. 
[5] W. H. Haydl, “Resonance phenomena and power loss in conductor-backed 
coplanar structures,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Guided Wave Lett., vol. 20, pp. 514–516, 
Dec. 2000. 
[6] J.-H Chen, Y.-J. Lu, P. Hsu, and S.-Y. Chen, “CBCPW-fed side-plane patch 
antenna,” in Proc. 38th European Microw. Conf., Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Oct. 
2008, pp. 531–534. 
[7] Y.-J. Lu, I-C. Lan, S.-Y. Chen, and P. Hsu, “Finite-width conductor-backed 
coplanar waveguide-fed side-plane antenna,” in IEEE AP-S Int. Sym., San Diego, 
USA, Jun. 2008. 
[8] K. F. Lee and W. Chen, Eds., Advances in Microstrip and Printed Antennas. New 
York: Wiley, 1997, pp. 242–246. 
[9] S. S. Bedair and I Wolff, “Fast and accurate analytic formulas for calculating the 
parameters of a general broadside-coupled coplanar waveguide for (M)MIC 
applications,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 37, pp. 843–850, May 1989. 
TABLE I 
SIMULATED AND MEASURED RESULTS AT 2.45 GHZ 
 
With BC Without BC 
Sim. 
Meas
. 
Sim. 
Meas
. 
Antenna gain 
(dBi) 
4.7 5.1 4.1 3.7 
Radiation 
efficiency (%) 
44.2 47.6 90.6 80.3 
Sim. and Meas. represent simulation and measurement, respectively. 
 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 101 年 7 月 30  日 
一、參加會議經過 
2012 IEEE 天線與傳播國際研討會(2012 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and 
Propagation (IEEE AP-S International Symposium))於7月8日至14日在美國伊利諾州芝加哥(Chicago)
的 Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Tower 舉行，7 月 8 日起開始註冊報到。我在 7 月 8 日晚間由桃園機
場搭中華航空班機出發，經洛杉磯轉機在次日(9 日)當地時間深夜 11 時到達 Chicago，隨即住進
Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Tower，第二天(10 日)一早即前往會議現場辦理註冊、領取收據，另領
取會議時程表及 CD-ROM。正式的會議期間從 7 月 9 日上午開始，一連五天，每天都有口頭的研
討會以及論文海報的張貼。另外更有舉辦一些收費的課程，也可自行選擇參與。 
7 月 10 日(星期二)上午參加了一個 Plenary Session，聆聽有關如何申請國防計畫的方法；中午
應邀參加免費的 Reviewers Luncheon，因我在過去一年幫忙 IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society
的期刊審查投稿論文所以獲邀；下午則聽了一場計 10 篇有關 Meta-material 應用的論文發表。 
7 月 11 日(星期三)主要參加壁報論文的場次，一共約 50 篇論文，我選擇了其中約 10 篇詳細
與作者交換意見；晚間有 Award Banquet，此次與我同系的陳士元教授所指導的大學部學生參加大
會的 Design Contest，在 Banquet 中被宣佈獲得第一名，此為此競賽臺灣得獎的第一次，就得了第
一名，實乃臺大的莫大殊榮；另外元智大學的周錫增教授也獲得 2012 的 Fellow，為國增光。 
7 月 12 日(星期四)上午參加 Wideband and Multiband Antenna 的場次，下午則看了壁報論文有
關天線在生物科學的應用，這方面好像越來越受重視。 
我的學生的兩篇壁報論文被大會安排在 7 月 13 日(星期五)上午 10：00 發表，我到現場給他
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－002－221－MY2 
計畫名稱 可同時工作在有及無背覆金屬板之共面波導饋入天線 
CPW-Fed Antennas Operating Simultaneously With and Without Back-Conductor 
出國人員
姓名 許博文 
服務機構
及職稱 國立臺灣大學電信工程學研究所教授
會議時間 101 年 7 月 8 日至 101 年 7 月 14 日 會議地點 美國芝加哥 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2012 IEEE 天線與傳播國際研討會 
(英文) 2012 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 可供無線多重終端裝置用之可調高度五頻帶平面倒 F 型天線 
(英文) Penta-Band PIFA with Tunable Antenna Height for Wireless Multi-
standard Terminals 
Penta-Band PIFA with Tunable Antenna Height  for 
Wireless Multistandard Terminals 
Hsien kang Tseng 
Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering  
National Taiwan University 
Taipei 10167, Taiwan 
E-mail: d98942003@ntu.edu.tw 
Powen Hsu 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
Taipei 10167, Taiwan 
E-mail: phsu@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw
 
Abstract—The proposed penta-band PIFA is designed to operate 
at the frequencies 860~980 MHZ, 1710~3850 MHz, and 
4960~5820 MHz, which cover the main cellular standard bands of 
GSM-900, DCS, PCS, UTMS, LTE, WiFi-802.11a/b/g/n, and 
Wimax. A tunable antenna height from 2 to 5 mm is also 
simulated and measured. This proposed penta-band PIFA with 
tunable antenna height is low-profile with satisfactory radiation 
efficiency, and is suitable for use in the smart phones. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The trend of equipping multistandard functions in a single 
smart phone has rapidly grown in wireless terminals. In recent 
years, planar inverted-F antennas (PIFA) are widely used in 
portable devices. Conventional PIFAs with several techniques 
have been reported for multiband operations [1]-[3]. These 
techniques include adding a capacitive loading at the end of 
PIFA [1], inserting a parasitic element near the antenna feed [2], 
and PIFA with meandering line [3]. Also, several folded PIFAs 
with dual-layer metal patch have been proposed for 
multistandard terminals [4]-[5]. However, most of these 
designs are restricted by the antenna height. Since the coupling 
between the planar antenna element and the chassis is 
capacitive [6], PIFA with reduced antenna height has 
narrowband characteristics [7].  Therefore, it is hard to design a 
broadband PIFA embedded in thin smart phones or tablet PCs. 
The proposed penta-band PIFA with tunable antenna height 
is shown in Fig. 1. It has a planar antenna element, with 
compact area of 36 x 20 mm
2
, and is placed above the chassis. 
A small inverted-F shaped slot is etched on the ground plane to 
reduce the coupling between the antenna element and the 
chassis. Therefore, the height of the proposed PIFA with 
broadband characteristics can easily be shrunk from 5 to 2 mm. 
Moreover, when the length of the chassis is close to a half 
wavelength at the operating frequency in a few wireless 
applications, the resonant mode of the patch antenna on the 
chassis will advantage the multiband design for the proposed 
antenna [6].  
Being different from the conventional PIFA with only one 
shorting pin, the proposed PIFA has two shorting pins as 
shown in Fig. 1. The two shorting pins can excite two different 
resonant frequencies for multiband operation. The details of the 
antenna design will be presented, and the measurement results 
will also be demonstrated. Good impedance matching and 
radiation performance reveal that the proposed antenna is very 
suitable for wireless multistandard terminals. 
 
Figure 1. Geometry of the proposed antenna. 
 
II. ANTENNA DESIGN  
The geometry of the proposed antenna is shown in Fig. 1. 
The ground plane on the chassis is 115 x 55 mm
2
. The central 
conductor of the semi-rigid coaxial cable is used to feed the 
planar antenna element. Moreover, both two shorting pins 
(Short1 and Short2) link the planar antenna element and the 
ground plane on the chassis. The proposed antenna consists of 
five resonant frequencies. The first resonance results from 
PIFA. Its resonant path is from the antenna feed through P2 to 
P3, and covers the frequency band 860~980 MHz. Both the 
second and the third resonant modes are also from the PIFA. 
The second resonant path starts from Short 1 and through the 
patch P1. The tuning stub L1 can slightly fine tune the second 
resonant frequency. The third resonant path begins with Short 2 
and through the patch P3. The forth resonant frequency comes 
from the resonance of the patch antenna on the chassis [6]. The  
 978-1-4673-0462-7/12/$31.00 ©2012 IEEE 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 102 年 7 月 30  日 
一、參加會議經過 
2013 IEEE 天線與傳播國際研討會(2013 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and 
Propagation (IEEE AP-S International Symposium))於 7 月 7 日至 13 日在美國佛羅里達州奧蘭多
(Orlando)的 Hilton Orlando Lake Buena Vista hotel 舉行，7 月 7 日起開始註冊報到。我在 7 月 6 日傍
晚由桃園機場搭中華航空班機出發，經洛杉磯轉機在次日(7 日)當地時間早上 6 時到達奧蘭多，立
刻前往 Hilton Orlando Lake Buena Vista hotel 辦理註冊、領取收據，還有領取會議時程表及會議論
文集隨身碟，當天研究了與自己研究相關的重要論文，安排未來的行程。正式的會議期間從 7 月 8
日上午開始，一連五天，每天都有口頭報告的研討會以及論文海報的張貼。另有舉辦一些收費的
課程，也可自行選擇參與。 
7 月 8 日(星期一)一整天聽了許多的 Multiple-Input-Multiple-Output (MIMO) Antenna 應用的論
文發表，發現在 4G Long Term Evolution (LTE)的標準下，低頻(小於 1GHz)的多天線設計是非常具
有挑戰性的，因為需要在有限的空間裡達到可以接受的天線特性，尤其是低頻的天線設計需要整
塊接地面金屬的輔助達到好的輻射特性，而每支天線都是使用相同的接地面，其輻射場型都類似
偶極天線，解決方法之一是在同一塊接地面金屬上做出不同輻射場型的天線。 
7 月 9 日(星期二)一整天聽了有關 Reconfigurable Antenna 的論文報告，其中比較有趣的是
Frequency reconfigurable 的天線可以被應用在 Cognitive Radio Antenna System 裡，此系統可以解決
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－002－221－MY2 
計畫名稱 可同時工作在有及無背覆金屬板之共面波導饋入天線 
CPW-Fed Antennas Operating Simultaneously With and Without Back-Conductor 
出國人員
姓名 呂彥儒 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立臺灣大學電信工程學研究所 
博士生 
會議時間 102 年 7 月 7 日至 102 年 7 月 13 日 會議地點 美國奧蘭多 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2013 IEEE 天線與傳播國際研討會 
(英文) 2013 IEEE International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 具寬範圍頻率比之雙頻共面波導饋入步階阻抗槽孔天線 
(英文) A Dual-Band CPW-Fed Stepped-Impedance Slot Antenna With Wide 
Range of Frequency Ratio 
A Dual-Band CPW-Fed Stepped-Impedance Slot 
Antenna with Wide Range of Frequency Ratio 
 
Yen-Ju Lu 
Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
Taipei 106, Taiwan 
r95942067@ntu.edu.tw 
Powen Hsu 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
Taipei 106, Taiwan 
phsu@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw
 
 
Abstract—A capacitively excited coplanar waveguide-fed dual-
band stepped-impedance slot antenna with wide range of 
frequency ratio is proposed. The wide range of frequency ratio is 
achieved by the first two modes of the stepped-impedance slot. 
The stepped-impedances are characterized by the slotline of 
different sizes, and the lower and upper bounds of the frequency 
ratio for the proposed slot antenna are presented and discussed. 
Simulation and measurement results are also presented.  
I. INTRODUCTION 
Coplanar waveguide (CPW)-fed slot antennas have several 
advantages, such as uniplanar nature, wide impedance 
bandwidth, and easy integration with monolithic microwave 
integrated circuit (MMIC) [1]-[3]. The CPW capacitively fed 
dual-band half-wavelength slot dipole [2] or full-wavelength 
slot loop [3] is attractive in wireless applications due to the 
concisely resonant length. The ranges of the frequency ratio 
defined by the upper resonant frequency (fU) over the lower 
resonant frequency (fL) are 1.77-3 and 1.1-1.47 in [2] and [3], 
respectively. Both these antennas have relatively narrow range 
of frequency ratio. 
In this paper, a CPW-fed dual-band stepped-impedance (SI) 
slot antenna with wide range of frequency ratio is proposed. 
For an SI resonator, its resonant length at fundamental 
frequency and frequency ratio between the fundamental and the 
first harmonic modes can be adjusted by changing the 
impedance ratio between impedance elements of resonator [4]. 
Based on the controllable resonant length of the SI resonator, a 
miniaturized CPW capacitively fed SI slot antenna has been 
designed [5]. Utilizing the wide range of the frequency ratio of 
the SI resonator, the impedance matching and adjustment of 
frequency ratio for the proposed dual-band SI slot antenna are 
presented and discussed. 
II. ANTENNA STRUCTURE AND DESIGN 
The configuration of the proposed CPW-fed SI slot antenna 
is shown in Fig. 1. It consists of a capacitively excited CPW-
fed slot formed by two bi-section SI slotline resonators in 
parallel. Each resonator has equal section length (L) but 
different slotline widths (W1 and W2). The length of a bi-
section SI slotline resonator (2L) is roughly a quarter 
wavelength at the fundamental frequency fL. The first 
harmonic frequency is defined as fU. The frequency ratio (fU/fL) 
is determined by the slotline width ratio W1/W2, which is 
related to the impedance ratio between the two impedance 
elements. The width ratio is larger than 1 for a frequency ratio 
larger than 3. For a frequency ratio smaller than 3, the width 
ratio should be chosen smaller than 1. The gap (Gc) between 
the extended strip from the signal line of CPW and the ground 
plane is adjusted for moderate impedance matchings at fL and 
fU. The non-ideal effects of extended strip and the stepped 
discontinuity would lower the accuracy of the theoretical 
frequency ratio prediction [4]. Due to the manufacturing 
capability of etching a small gap, both impedance matchings at 
fL and fU for a larger slotline width ratio are hard to be done 
simultaneously. Therefore, the upper bound of the frequency 
ratio is limited. 
III. SIMULATION AND MEASUREMENT RESULTS 
The proposed dual-band antenna is first designed for 
wireless local area network (WLAN) applications in the 2.4 
GHz band (2.4-2.4835 GHz) and the 5 GHz band (5.15-5.825 
GHz) for 802.11a/b/g. The frequency ratio is roughly 2.24, 
which is less than 3. Therefore, the slotline width ratio (W1/W2) 
is chosen smaller than 1. A test piece of the proposed antenna 
was fabricated on a 0.8-mm thick FR4 substrate with dielectric 
 
Fig. 1. Configuration of the CPW capacitively fed SI slot antenna. 
936978-1-4673-5317-5/13/$31.00 ©2013 IEEE AP-S 2013
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 可同時工作在有及無背覆金屬板之共面波導饋入天線
計畫主持人: 許博文
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-002-221-MY2 學門領域: 電磁
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
