利申請中，培育十位研究生與六篇碩士論文，並以飛秒雷射
製造出國內第一支人體可降解血管支架，所發展之部份技術
已技轉至工業研究院生醫所，另有技術移轉正在洽談中，成
果十分豐碩。我們所成功建立的設計、分析、製造、塗藥、
生物感測器等核心技術，可作更進一步完全垂直整合，以期
在未來一二年內能達到雛型品快速設計製造之能力。我們相
信，我們從此研究計畫所累積的知識與經驗，將有助於未來
血管支架與標靶治療科技的突破，藉以提升臺灣未來在生技
產業的布局與高度，這也將是台灣進入此一重要高階醫療器
材市場的重要契機。 
中文關鍵詞： 標靶治療, 癌症, 高階醫療器材, 血管支架, 人體可降解血
管支架, 藥物載具, 雷射切削, 印刷電子, 生物感測器 
英 文 摘 要 ： The recent advances in the medical device technology, 
such as the development of drug eluting stents or 
biodegradable stents for the treatment of coronary 
artery diseases, provide the potential vehicles for 
site specific drug delivery.  The use of drug eluting 
stents have resulted in a dramatic lowering of 
restenosis after angioplasty, leading to worldwide 
uptake of this new technology for coronary artery 
diseases.  Biodegradable stents present the next 
frontier； they hold the promise of a medical device 
that could support the artery after intervention, 
deliver drug, and disappear without permanently 
affecting the vessel. 
 
The concept of using an intravascular stent as a 
vehicle for prolonged and sufficient drug delivery is 
appealing.  In this project, we proposed to conduct a 
feasibility study to investigate its full potential.  
Several core technologies were developed associated 
with this project: 
 
(1) Stent Platforms for Site Specific Therapy 
(2) Computational Modeling for Assessment of Key 
Clinical Attributes 
(3) Stent Laser Cutting 
(4) Drug Coating on Stent Carrier 
(5) Bio-Sensing via Micro-Patterning 
 
Our research results have been very productive.  This 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
 
血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究 
 
計畫類別：□ 個別型計畫  ■ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  98－2218－E－002－043與 99－2218－E－002－018 
執行期間： 98 年 11 月 1 日至  100 年 12 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：蕭浩明 
共同主持人：廖英志、張所鋐 
計畫參與人員： 王宏達、鄭有成、陳威任、胡俊宇、洪英翰、李冠輝、
易延才、高振凱、邱奕翔、王室驊 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
■國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立臺灣大學機械工程學系暨研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  101 年  3  月  31  日 
iii 
 
中文摘要： 
 
標靶治療已成為一個極具有潛力的治療癌症與慢性疼痛的療法，在最近幾年來更受到
醫學界的高度重視。標靶治療的其中一種作法，是將高劑量的藥物直接注入特定器官或其
週邊血管，如此一來，病人即毋需增加傳統口服或靜脈注射的藥物劑量。這一方法有助於
減少全身藥物副作用，提高病人生活品質，並為病人延長生命。 
 
近年來高階醫療器材技術突飛猛進，比如用於治療心腦血管疾病的塗藥血管支架、或
未來的人體可降解血管支架，都為標靶治療提供了無限的可能。塗藥血管支架的發明大量
降低了支架手術後血管再狹窄的可能，使塗藥血管支架一躍成為全球治療心腦血管疾病的
黃金標準。人體可降解血管支架更代表了下一個新科技世代的來臨，它會在支架手術後，
提供了血管必需的支撐與藥物釋放，然後在數個月內從人體中自動消失。在這個研究計畫
中，我們建議利用血管支架作為藥物載具，以進行特定器官標靶治療的可行性研究。計畫
執行兩年以來，已建立設計、分析、製造、塗藥、生物感測器等核心技術並蓄積研發能量，
將可於未來協助台灣發展血管支架等相關產業，並開發血管支架作為標靶治療藥物載具的
應用，同時尋找屬於台灣可切入的獨特利基市場。以下為本計畫所開發成功的核心技術： 
 
(1) 血管支架藥物載具設計：設計專利的血管支架圖案或幾何形狀，進行參數式的最佳化
設計。設計特殊的支架樣式以方便載藥，並在支架表面鑽孔，以增加藥量貯存。 
(2) 電腦模擬分析：建立血管支架有限元素與流體力學電腦模型，以預測血管支架的行為
與壽命。並將電腦模型與前述設計整合，以提升效率與快速雛型品設計製造的能力。 
(3) 雷射切削製造：與工業研究院機械所與生醫所合作，共同發展血管支架雷射切削製造
技術，並建立血管支架製造所需要的雷射光學自動對焦系統與自動平台系統。 
(4) 血管支架藥物塗層研究：利用 spray coating塗覆支架表面，或用 drop-on-demand方法
在塗佈過程中將藥物置於特定位置，並研究高分子聚合物塗佈參數與最後塗層性質的
關係。 
(5) 印刷電子技術製造生物感測器：利用印刷電子技術列印簡易電路，以製造生物感測器，
提供生物信息收集與病理檢測之能力。 
 
本計畫具體研究成果，包括十一篇期刊論文、二篇專書章節、十三篇國際研討會論文、
十篇國內研討會論文、二項專利申請中，培育十位研究生與六篇碩士論文，並以飛秒雷射
製造出國內第一支人體可降解血管支架，所發展之部份技術已技轉至工業研究院生醫所，
另有技術移轉正在洽談中，成果十分豐碩。我們所成功建立的設計、分析、製造、塗藥、
生物感測器等核心技術，可作更進一步完全垂直整合，以期在未來一二年內能達到雛型品
快速設計製造之能力。我們相信，我們從此研究計畫所累積的知識與經驗，將有助於未來
血管支架與標靶治療科技的突破，藉以提升臺灣未來在生技產業的布局與高度，這也將是
台灣進入此一重要高階醫療器材市場的重要契機。 
v 
 
(4) Drug Coating on Stent Carrier: We developed the spray coating technology to apply a thin 
polymer layer on the stent surfaces or drug carriers.  We also developed the 
drop-on-demand method to place drugs onto specific sites of the drug carriers such as the 
depot stent reservoirs.  Effects of ink formulation and operational parameters on coating 
qualities were investigated to provide future guidelines. 
(5) Bio-Sensing via Micro-Patterning: We investigated the feasibility of applying inkjet printing 
technology on the biomedical diagnostic devices.  A method was developed to demonstrate 
sensor manufacturing via inkjet printing technology.  The printed sensors show good 
electrocatalytic activity for hydrogen peroxide and great sensitivity for accurate glucose 
determination at a reduced voltage.  This layer-by-layer approach can be extended to other 
biosensors for chemical detection, such as urine and cholesterols. 
 
Our research results have been very productive.  This project has produced eleven journal 
papers, two book chapters, thirteen international conference papers, ten domestic conference 
papers, two patent applications, and six master theses, with many paper submissions still 
ongoing as of today.  We have successfully manufactured Taiwan first laser-cut biodegradable 
stent.  Part of the developed technologies were already transferred to ITRI, whereas others are 
still in discussion.  The core technologies of stent design, computational modeling, laser 
cutting, drug coating, and bio-sensors by inkjet printing were successfully developed and could 
be integrated further to achieve rapid design and prototyping for the stent industry and site 
specific therapy.  We believe this project greatly enhances the fundamental understanding of 
this very important technology for the next decade.  The knowledge and experience 
accumulated from this project will help us to advance new technology for site specific therapy 
in the future. 
 
 
- 2 - 
 
二、研究目的 
The objective of this project is to investigate the feasibility of using the bio-sensor-equipped 
stent as a vehicle to carry drugs to the target site for prolonged drug delivery.  We proposed to 
design and manufacture a smart drug delivery device using an intravascular stent as the platform 
(or carrier) and integrate it with coating/sensors so that the drug delivery could be controlled 
precisely.  In order to achieve this goal, several core technologies including stent design, 
computational modeling, laser cutting, drug coating, bio-sensing were developed: 
 Parametric Stent Design Concept: We proposed to apply the parametric design concept onto 
the stent design.  With this new idea employed, a stent design drawing can be modified in 
just a few seconds and stent design could be accomplished within much less time than with 
traditional CAD software such as AutoCAD.  This process could potentially reduce the 
product development cycle and save precious time for the medical device industry in the 
future. 
 Stent Platform with Drug Reservoirs for Site Specific Therapy: We proposed to use a new 
and innovative concept in drug delivery called the depot stent (drug-eluting stent with 
micro-sized drug reservoirs), for precise and programmable drug control over spatial and 
temporal release kinetics.  The depot stent was originally developed for the coronary 
indication to increase the flexibility of the drugs administered.  However, we believe this 
innovative stent concept could become even more powerful and suitable in other indications 
such liver and kidney diseases and site specific therapy for cancer.  Different types of drug 
for various time spans can be administered independently, either by chemically-controlled 
degradation or electromechanically-controlled opening of the reservoir caps located on top 
of the reservoirs. 
 Finite Element Models for Assessment of Key Clinical Attributes: We proposed to develop 
Finite Element Analysis (FEA) models to evaluate key clinical attributes of a 
balloon-expandable stent including the depot stent aforementioned.  The FDA published 
“Non-Clinical Engineering Tests and Recommended Labeling for Intravascular Stents and 
Associated Delivery Systems” in 2010 to list many clinically-relevant functional attributes 
the agency is interested, such as stresses/strains, fatigue resistance, radial strength, and 
expansion recoil, for future consideration of new stent submissions.  We have developed 
our computational models accordingly to address these requirements from the FDA. 
 Computational Fluid Dynamics Models for Assessment of Stent Hemodynamics: We 
proposed to develop Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) models to evaluate the 
hemodynamic behavior of a balloon-expandable stent in stented arteries.  After stenting, 
restenosis may occur if excessive proliferation of neo-intimal tissues blocks the blood flow 
again.  A growing number of experts suspect that it may be due to altered wall shear stress 
(WSS) distribution in stented arteries.  We have developed the computational models to 
predict the possible locations of high/low wall shear stresses and the corresponding 
- 4 - 
 
三、文獻探討 
Current research on the site specific therapy has been mainly focused on nanoparticles 
engineered for drug delivery and medical imaging.  Drugs can be encapsulated or attached to 
nanoparticles for delivery to target molecules or cells [10-11].  Nanoparticles can be injected 
into the bloodstream and directed to collect at specific sites in the body.  On the other hand, the 
concept of using medical devices as vehicles for carrying drugs to the target site for prolonged 
local drug delivery has far less studies.  However, this novel idea holds a great promise in the 
future, as the device is able to deliver drugs to the specific site with higher dosages more 
precisely for prolonged period of time.  The recent advances in catheter and stenting technology, 
such as the inventions of drug eluting stents and biodegradable stents, should greatly enhance the 
potential for this type of site specific drug delivery. 
Stents are widely used to restore blood flow from atherosclerotic vascular diseases.  The 
patient after intravascular stenting, however, may develop restenosis issue, namely, the reduction 
of artery lumen caused by neointimal formation over a period of time.  Although restenosis is a 
complicated process, clinical studies have suggested that restenosis after stent implantation is 
relevant to stent design and its corresponding blood flow pattern [12-13].  Furthermore, in-vivo 
studies have confirmed that a decrease in local wall shear stress (WSS) increases the neointimal 
formation [14-15].  Computational fluid mechanics (CFD) has drawn a lot of attentions in the 
research areas of stent hemodynamics. 
Stent fracture in various vascular and nonvascular beds is a big issue that is related to the 
stent design.  It is an undesirable event that should be avoided, if possible.  In the current 
medical device industry, most of the coronary and endovascular stents are assessed using 
accelerated in-vitro fatigue testing and finite element analysis (FEA) to ascertain whether the 
device will survive a fatigue life of ten years under simulated physiological loading conditions.  
To design against such fatigue failures, the majority of prior research on stent fatigue has focused 
on determining the stress/strain-life (S-N) properties of wires and stents [16-17].  Marrey et al. 
developed a new damage–tolerant analysis for quantitatively predicting the fatigue life of a 
balloon-expandable stent [18].  Their approach was to base the primary fatigue-life assessment 
on a traditional, yet conservative version of an S-N analysis, and to further use fracture mechanics 
in order to evaluate the role of pre-existing flaws.  Similar work has been extended to the 
nickel-titanium stents for endovascular applications [19]. 
For drug eluting stents (DES), spray coating and dip coating are regularly used to apply 
drug-polymer coatings on stents [20].  Both methods can generate thin films with controllable 
coating thicknesses on stent surfaces.  The dip coating method, however, leads to a uniform 
coating all over stents, while spray coating method results in a uniform layer on the outward side 
of stents.  No matter which coating method is adopted, drug is usually mixed with polymer in 
organic solvents, such as dichloromethane or dimethyl sulfoxide.  The organic mixtures are then 
applied to stent surfaces, and dried in vacuum-heated oven to evaporate the unwanted chemicals.  
- 6 - 
 
四、研究方法 
Parametric Stent Design Concept 
In this section, we proposed to apply the parametric design concept onto the stent design.  
With this new idea employed, a stent design drawing can be modified in just a few seconds and 
stent design could be accomplished within much less time than with traditional CAD software 
such as AutoCAD.  This process could potentially reduce the product development cycle and 
save precious time for the medical device industry in the future. 
Parametric design is the latest development in CAD software.  It is a method of linking 
dimensions and variables to geometry in such a way that when the defined parameter values 
change, the drawing changes as well.  A parameter is a variable to which other variables are 
related, and these other variables can be obtained by means of parametric mathematical equations.  
All important stent geometries such as strut width/thickness/length, crown radius/number, etc., 
can be parameterized by mathematical equations.  Parametric modification can be accomplished 
with a designed spreadsheet, script, or by manually changing dimension text in the model. 
A typical stent has a series of nested rings interconnected with small bridging connectors.  
It is an assembly of a repeated unit cell, the smallest representative element, in a periodic pattern 
(Figure 1).  Our parametric stent design started with this single unit cell.  All important stent 
geometries such as tubing diameter, strut width/thickness/length, crown radius/number, etc., were 
parameterized by mathematical equations.  Figure 2 shows several representative parameters 
used in the parametric stent design.  Crown radius is defined as the inner radius of the crown.  
Strut length is the vertical distance in the axial direction between two crown centers.  There are 
other parameters which are not listed in this figure, including tubing diameter, stent thickness, 
crown number, ring number, etc.  An example of the parametric equation used in this study was: 
Circumferential distance between crown centers = pi*tubing diameter / crown number 
 
Figure 1 Repeated unit cell of a typical stent 
- 8 - 
 
Stent Platform with Drug Reservoirs for Site Specific Therapy 
 In this section, we proposed to use a new and innovative concept in drug delivery called the 
depot stent (drug-eluting stent with micro-sized drug reservoirs), for precise and programmable 
drug control over spatial and temporal release kinetics.  The depot stent was originally 
developed for the coronary indication to increase the flexibility of the drugs administered.  
However, we believe this innovative stent concept could become even more powerful and 
suitable in other indications such liver and kidney diseases and site specific therapy for cancer. 
The depot stent has hundreds or thousands of small reservoirs (holes) in the stent struts, 
loaded with a drug-polymer mix.  Different types of drugs with different release rates can be 
arranged in each reservoir, increasing the flexibility of the drugs administered.  For example, 
drugs preventing scar tissue growth or neointima proliferation can be applied on the outside 
portion of the stent reservoirs closer to the artery wall, while on the inside portion of the 
reservoirs, cancer drugs can be loaded and carried by the blood stream to the distal organ for 
direct target therapy (Figure 4).  This design incorporating sequential release of multiple drugs 
facilitates management of the sequential complex biological processes associated with cancer.  
Different types of drug for each period can be administered independently, either by 
chemically-controlled degradation or electromechanically-controlled opening of the reservoir 
caps located on top of the reservoirs. 
This innovative concept is particularly useful when the platform backbone material is 
biodegradable: a biodegradable stent platform that could deliver drugs to the target organ for a 
prolonged period of time of drug release and disappear once its job is done, allowing the same 
site to be treated multiple times.  This opens up a wide range of new treatment potentials and 
opportunities for various diseases in the future. 
Figure 4 Depot stent concept with different types of drugs and release rates administered 
independently from opposite sides of the depot stent 
- 10 - 
 
Finite element analysis was performed to evaluate the stent structural integrity and fatigue 
resistance with commercially available software ABAQUS.  A finite element model was 
developed to evaluate the stent response to various loading conditions involved in preparing and 
deploying an intravascular stent consistent with clinical practice such as manufacturing (crimped 
onto a balloon catheter), in vivo deployment (expanded into an artery), radial strength to resist 
blood vessels from collapsing, and service life in the human body when subjected to pulsatile 
blood pressure (180/80 mmHg): 
Step 1: Stent crimping from 2.54 mm to 2 mm OD (crimp) 
Step 2: Stent recoil after crimping (crimp-recoil) 
Step 3: Stent expansion to 7.0 mm ID (expansion) 
Step 4: Stent recoil after expansion (expansion-recoil) 
Step 5: Stent fatigue under 180/80 mmHg systolic/diastolic pressure, or, stent radial strength 
In order to simulate the manufacturing and in vivo deployment steps, two cylinders with the 
diameters of 2.54 mm and 1.12 mm were added into the model, with one inside the stent and the 
other outside the stent.  The stent model was meshed with the 8-node linear brick element in 
incompatible mode (C3D8I) (Figure 6).  The inside and outside cylinders were meshed with the 
4-node quadrilateral surface element (SFM3D4).  A frictionless contact was defined to prevent 
surface penetration with the following contact pairs considered: (1) surface contact between the 
inner surface of the outer cylinder and the outer surface of the stent, (2) surface contact between 
the outer surface of the inner cylinder and the inner surface of the stent, (3) side contact between 
any two stent struts during crimping. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Meshed stent model for FEA analysis 
 
Following the stent deployment, systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressures (180/80 
mmHg) were applied to simulate the pulsatile fatigue loading.  To account for the loading 
imposed by the arterial wall, an arterial pressure loading corresponding to the interaction between 
the stent and the artery was imposed on the stent.  The Goodman life analysis, as recommended 
- 12 - 
 
In order to quantify the likelihood of fatigue failure for a stent, the fatigue safety factor (FSF) 
is defined as the ratio of the stress amplitude against the modified endurance limit.  It quantifies 
the proximity of the mean stress and stress amplitude at the given integration points to the 
Goodman failure line.  FSF less than 1.0 indicates the stent fatigue failure. 
 
 
 
Computational Fluid Dynamics Models for Assessment of Stent Hemodynamics 
In this section, we proposed to develop CFD models to evaluate the hemodynamic behavior 
of a balloon-expandable stent including the depot stent aforementioned.  After stenting, 
restenosis may occur if excessive proliferation of neo-intimal tissues blocks the blood flow again.  
Although restenosis is a complicated physiological phenomenon, a growing number of experts 
suspect that it may be due to altered wall shear stress (WSS) distribution in stented arteries.  
Several clinical studies reported that low WSS (less than 5 dynes/cm2) or oscillating WSS was 
observed at the location where neo-intimal thickening in stented arteries is the greatest [32-35]. 
The interaction between stent geometry/design and WSS distribution in a stented artery was 
investigated to understand the variations of fluid behavior near the stented region of an artery.  
The blood flow in a stented artery was assumed to be steady, non-Newtonian, incompressible, 
and laminar.  The flow is governed by the conservation of mass and momentum, given by the 
following flow equations, respectively: 
 0=⋅∇ v   
 fvpvv
t
v
+∇+−∇=




 ∇⋅+
∂
∂ 2µρ   
 
Figure 8 Meshed stent-artery model for CFD analysis 
- 14 - 
 
 The fundamental principle of the femto-second laser is to remove materials by optical 
nonlinear absorption or multi-photon absorption during a very short pulse (usually less than 1 ps).  
This type of ablation technique is able to achieve high dimensional precision without creating 
significant heat affected zones on the processing parts.  Therefore, by using the femto-second 
laser to manufacture intravascular stents or drug carriers, we could obtain higher quality stents 
than those manufactured by traditional laser-cutting techniques. 
 A stent is a three-dimensional cylindrical hollow structure which is laser-cut from a 
miniature hypotube (1-2 mm outer diameter).  This is more complicated than the 2-D planar 
laser-cutting so special fixtures are required for this type of application.  In this project, we 
developed a rotating shaft holder combined with a xyz stage automated system based on the lathe 
concept, so that the stent hypotube can be directly mounted on them for machining.  This system 
consists of the design of a direct drive rotary axis with the rated speed = 400~800 rpm and 
accuracy ≤ 100 µrad (± 15 arc sec).  The laser energy is projected onto the hypotube which spins 
with the rotating shaft holder according to the programmed stent design pattern and laser-cutting 
path (Figure 9).  The resolution of the femto-second laser is within the micro-nano level so its 
focal point is extremely small.  Since the laser-cutting is conducted on a rotating hypotube, it is 
important to have a laser optical auto-focus system.  We developed such system which allows to 
automatically adjusting its focus by using the laser light characteristics of the parallel beam and 
minimum spot, reaching a highly reproducible laser assisted focus system (Figure 10). 
Figure 10 Femto-second laser system setup at ITRI for stent cutting 
 
Drug Coating on Stent Carrier 
In this section, we proposed to develop the spray coating technology to apply a thin 
polymer layer on the stent surface or drug carriers.  This coating method can deliver liquid flux 
consistently to the stent surface with controllable amounts of polymer-drug compounds.  We 
also proposed to develop the drop-on-demand method to place the drugs onto specific sites of the 
- 16 - 
 
(d) Filtered the suspension to exclude large particles. 
(2) Jettability: obtained drop ejection wave form parameters for each ink (Figure 12). 
(a) Created proper wave form with several parameters. 
(b) Fine-tuned parameters so that the satellite droplets disappeared. 
(c) Ejected drops at various frequencies to tune the drop size and velocity. 
 
driving wave form real-time observation drop volume/velocity test  
Figure 12 Jettability test for drop ejection with formulated inks 
 
(3) Electrode manufacturing process: a typical example of a layer-by-layer glucose 
sensor is shown in Figure 13.  The enzymes were printed over the mediator (Prussian 
blue shown here).  The sensors were sitting on a conductive carbon layer and 
connected to electronic circuits. 
 
Figure 13 Schematic of typical stripe sensor 
 
(4) Electrochemical tests:  the electrochemical characteristics of the printed sensing 
elements were examined (Figure 14).  In a three electrode system, amperometry 
experiments were conducted to plot calibration curves and the electric signals were 
correlated to the environmental concentrations.  The sensitivity, limit of detection, and 
linear range of the printed sensors were investigated.  Figure 15 demonstrates the 
images of the printed electrodes. 
- 18 - 
 
五、結果與討論 
Parametric Stent Design 
The parametric stent design capabilities were developed and a new stent design drawing 
could be generated within seconds (Figure 16).  This is quite a technology leap when compared 
with the redrawing required by the traditional CAD software which could take hours per sketch 
for an experienced stent designer repeatedly.  This fast parametric stent design scheme can be 
combined with the FEA/CFD models to become an integrated and powerful computational tool.  
It could potentially reduce the product development cycle from months to weeks and save 
precious time for the medical device industry in the future. 
The stent design parameters such as strut width/thickness/length, crown radius, connector, 
etc. all have significant impact on the overall stent behavior.  For example, crown radius is one 
of the most critical parameters among all, as it controls many key stent functional attributes such 
as acute fracture, elastic recoil, stent retention on catheters, and crimp profile.  Strut thickness is 
believed to play an important role in the restenosis process, whereas strut width dictates the stent 
radial strength.  Both strut thickness and strut width also affect the final stent crimp profile.  
When the stent design is less flexible, it tends to straighten out the vessels and pushes the vessel 
tortuosity distally.  This could create kink points at the stent/vessel junctions, disturbing the 
blood flow and triggering adverse events such as vessel spasm and thrombosis.  For applications 
subjected to greater bending such as renal artery and superficial femoral artery, a flexible stent 
design is preferred.  However, for other applications such as carotid stenting where the primary 
concern is the potential stroke risk of emboli dislodgement from plaque, a stent with greater 
scaffolding should be considered to help pave the artery better. 
Figure 16 Stent drawing generated by parametric stent design concept 
- 20 - 
 
Since drug reservoirs on the stent struts may weaken the scaffolding structure and 
compromise the mechanical integrity, several computational models were developed to assess key 
clinical attributes of the depot stent using finite element analysis.  The “standard” stent, which 
has the same geometry as the depot stent but no drug reservoirs, and the depot stent with 
through-hole reservoirs evenly distributed on the entire stent, were first evaluated to establish the 
baseline information.  The FEA simulation was then performed on the optimized depot stent to 
investigate the reservoir effects on its mechanical integrity such as equivalent plastic strain 
(PEEQ), radial strength (RS), and fatigue safety factor (FSF). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 17 Contour plot of the equivalent plastic strain of the standard stent (top), the 
stent with reservoirs on the entire stent (middle), and the optimized depot stent (bottom) at 
the expansion stage with a magnified view of the stent crown in the right window 
 
Figure 17 shows the contour plot comparisons of the equivalent plastic strain developed 
during expansion among the standard stent, the depot stent with through-hole reservoirs on the 
- 22 - 
 
Figure 18 shows the Goodman diagram comparison of the pulsatile fatigue loading among 
the three cases.  Calculated data of the standard case were well below the Goodman diagram 
failure line, indicating that the studied balloon-expandable stent (standard case) is able to pass the 
fatigue life under pulsatile loading.  Comparing Figure 18(a) to Figure 18(b), wherein the very 
same stent but with through-hole reservoirs on the entire stent was assessed for pulsatile fatigue 
lading, shows that the calculated data of this specific depot stent migrated towards the Goodman 
diagram failure line, indicating a significant drop of 34% in fatigue safety factor and thus much 
lower fatigue resistance to systolic/diastolic blood pressure.  However, for the optimized depot 
stent, the fatigue safety factor was reduced marginally by only 13% when compared to the 
standard case (Figure 18(c)).  This could be due to the stress/strain re-distribution near the 
crown region as mentioned previously. 
In summary, the total drug capacity of the proposed optimized depot stent could be tripled 
with marginal trade-off in its key clinical attributes, when compared with its drug eluting stent 
counterpart.  The radial strength and the fatigue safety factor of the optimized depot stent were 
reduced by only 10% and 13%, respectively.  Table 2 summarizes the comparison of key 
clinical attributes among these three cases.  As shown, this optimized depot stent is very feasible 
and could carry more drugs and deliver them smartly than the current drug-eluting stent for 
potential treatment of site specific therapy. 
Table 2 Effects of through-hole reservoirs on key clinical attributes 
Model RS 
(N/mm) 
Variation 
(%) 
PEEQ 
(%Str) 
Variation 
(%) 
FSF Variation 
(%) 
Standard 3.78 - 40.5 - 3.05 - 
Hole-All 
Hole-Optimized 
3.08 
3.41 
-18.52 
-9.79 
46.8 
36.7 
15.56 
-9.38 
2.02 
2.66 
-33.77 
-12.79 
Hole-All: through-hole reservoirs on entire stent 
Hole-Optimized: optimized depot stent 
 
Project-related Publication in This Topic by Authors: 
 H. M. Hsiao* and Y. H. Chiu, “Assessment of Mechanical Integrity for Drug-eluting Renal 
Stent with Micro-sized Drug Reservoirs,” Computer Methods in Biomechanics and 
Biomedical Engineering, 2012 (DOI:10.1080/10255842.2012.670851). 
 H. M. Hsiao*, M. D. Dake, S. Prabhu, M. K. Razavi, Y. C. Liao, and A. Nikanorov, “Life 
Assessment of a Balloon-expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis,” 
Biomedical Engineering, Trends in Materials Science, edited by A. N. Laskovski, InTech, 
2011, pp. 447-464. 
 H. M. Hsiao*, Y. H. Chiu, and F. Y. Liu, “ Effects of Through-hole Drug Reservoirs on Key 
Clinical Attributes for Drug-eluting Depot Stent,” Medical Engineering and Physics, 2012 
(submitted). 
 
- 24 - 
 
less plastic strain during deformation.  A 30% increase in the crown radius reduced the 
maximum equivalent plastic strain by approximately 23% (from 47.7% strain to 36.6% strain). 
Figure 20 Equivalent plastic strain as a function of stent design parameters 
 
Figure 21 shows the simulation results of the fatigue safety factor with respect to the crown 
radius, strut thickness, and strut width.  In general, the fatigue safety factor trended higher as the 
stent design parameters increased their geometric dimensions.  Thicker/wider stent struts 
(meaning a bulkier stent) or larger crown radii would improve the stent fatigue resistance against 
cyclic loading.  A 30% increase in the strut thickness improved the fatigue safety factor by 
approximately 30% (from 2.56 to 3.32). 
Figure 21 Fatigue safety factor as a function of stent design parameters 
 
- 26 - 
 
Computational Fluid Dynamics for Assessment of Stent Hemodynamics 
In this study, three-dimensional CFD models were developed to investigate the effects of 
stent design on the wall shear stress distribution in stented arteries and to determine which design 
parameter is the most dominant factor.  Although wall shear stress plays such a key role in the 
development of restenosis, its relationship with the stent design parameters (e.g., design pattern 
and strut geometry) has yet to be systematically investigated.  To date, it is uncertain whether 
specific stent design changes would result in significant wall shear stress variations or not.  The 
proposed methodology can be used to evaluate the hemodynamic performance of a stent in 
attempts to improve its restenosis risk. 
To assess the effects of stent design pattern alone, four types of stents, which resembled 
four most widely used commercial coronary stents in the market, were studied.  Figure 23 
shows the design patterns of these four stents, referred as stent A, B, C, and D.  Stent E is the 
same configuration as stent D but with 25% offset axially to represent the case of untrimmed 
edges.  In order to focus on the effects of stent design pattern alone, stent A-C were intentionally 
constructed with the same strut geometries.  Their corresponding strut geometries such as strut 
width, strut thickness, crown radius, and ring spacing were maintained constant for all so only the 
design pattern effects were isolated for evaluation.  Stent D and E followed similarly to stent 
A-C except their ring spacing and crown radius definitions were slightly different due to the 
constraints of their braided design. 
Figure 23 Stent A-E for assessment of stent hemodynamics and wall shear stress 
 
Contour plots of the wall shear stress distribution on the artery wall after implantation of 
coronary stents A-E (from top to bottom) are illustrated in Figure 24.  The results show that the 
wall shear stress contour plots were not too different in the upstream, stented, and downstream 
regions for all stents investigated.  The blue color indicated the locations of the low wall shear 
stress which was our major interest in this study.  It is apparent that the minimum wall shear 
stress occurred at the recirculation zones located at the downstream or backside of each stent strut 
or joint (connector) of the strut.  Numbers of clinical studies have reported that low or 
- 28 - 
 
In all, these four types of stents, resembling four most widely used commercial coronary 
stents in the market, did not generate significant difference in the wall shear stress area under the 
condition that their corresponding strut geometries were kept the same.  Therefore, the stent 
design pattern does not have significant impact in the wall shear stress distribution. 
To assess the effects of stent strut geometry alone, a parametric analysis was conducted to 
systematically assess the effects of varying strut geometries on the wall shear stress distribution.  
Only stent A was selected for evaluation in this part of the analysis.  The selected strut 
geometries for investigation included (1) crown radius (CR), (2) strut width (SW), and (3) strut 
thickness (ST).  Each parameter was varied in its dimension from -30% to +30% (compared to 
the standard case) for sensitivity study of the stent strut geometries and wall shear stress. 
Figure 25 shows the simulation results of the low WSS area with respect to the crown radius, 
strut thickness, and strut width.  This plot shows that increasing the strut thickness resulted in 
much greater areas exposed to low WSS, while varying the strut width or crown radius had very 
little effect.  Wall shear stress is very sensitive to the strut thickness.  In order to quantity the 
effects, the total wall surface area exposed to low shear stress of 5 dyne/cm2, below which 
restenosis is likely to occur, was calculated and measured.  At the flow rate of 1000 ml/min, the 
low WSS area was 7.89 mm2 and 16.54 mm2 for the 30% reduction and 30% increase in the strut 
thickness, respectively.  This suggests that thinner stent design in attempts to improve the stent 
hemodynamic behavior could become one of the future directions in the medical device world. 
Figure 25 Low wall shear stress area as a function of stent strut geometry 
 
Project-related Publication in This Topic by Authors: 
 H. M. Hsiao*, K. H. Lee, and Y. C  Liao, “Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulation on 
Biomedical Stent Design,” Journal of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Vol. 5, No. 
11, 2011, pp. 973-984. 
 H. M. Hsiao*, K. H. Lee, Y. C. Liao, and Y. C. Cheng, “Hemodynamic Simulation of 
Intra-stent Blood Flow,” Procedia Engineering, 2012 (in press). 
- 30 - 
 
 Figure 28 shows a laser-cut 4 mm PLA biodegradable stent.  It is believed that this marks 
the first time Taiwan is able to manufacture such a biodegradable stent by laser-cutting.  
Biodegradable stents present the next frontier in the stent technology: a biodegradable stent 
platform that could deliver drugs to the target organ for a prolonged period of time of drug release 
and disappear once its job is done, allowing the same site to be treated multiple times.  This is a 
perfect candidate of drug carriers for future target therapy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 28 Laser-cut 4 mm biodegradable stent by femto-second laser 
 
We are able to manufacture the depot stents with micro-sized drug reservoirs successfully.  
Figure 29 shows a series of the laser-cut stainless-steel depot stents with various sizes of drug 
reservoirs.  Different types of drug can be stored inside different reservoirs and administered 
independently, either by chemically-controlled degradation or electromechanically-controlled 
opening of the reservoir caps located on top of the reservoirs.  This innovative concept is 
particularly useful when the platform backbone material is biodegradable.  This opens up a wide 
range of new treatment potentials and opportunities for various diseases in the future. 
Figure 29 Laser-cut depot stents with micro-sized drug reservoirs by femto-second laser 
 
 
- 32 - 
 
0.00
0.20
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
1.20
1.40
1.60
1.80
0.00 50.00 100.00 150.00 200.00 250.00
噴
塗
重
量
(
m
g
)
噴塗時間(s)
w=10 rpm
w=50 rpm
w=100 rpm
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
8.00
0.00 50.00 100.00 150.00 200.00 250.00
噴
塗
厚
度
(
μ
m
)
噴塗時間(s)
w=10 rpm
w=50 rpm
w=100 rpm
coating weights.  To minimize side wall coating weights, a rotational speed less than or equal to 
10 rpm is recommended. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 31 Variation of coating (a) weights and (b) thickness on stent surfaces with 
coating time at various rotation rates 
 
Bio-Sensing via Micro-Patterning 
The printed sensors show great catalytic activity towards the reduction of hydrogen peroxide.  
The catalytic reaction of PW, produced by electrochemical reduction at the electrode surfaces, 
towards hydrogen peroxide can be described as follows: 
 
Prussian white                Prussian blue 
 
The overall reaction is  
 
 
The electrocatalytic reduction of H2O2 on the printed sensors was studied with 
- 34 - 
 
 
Figure 34 Cyclic voltammograms for a GOx/PB/SPCE in phosphate buffer solution (pH 
7.4) at a scan rate of 10 mVs-1 
 
To ensure the immobilization of glucose oxidase on the electrode, the electrode was dipped 
in the PBS solution for 2 minutes before the electrochemical tests.  Figure 35 shows the 
detected current signals in chronoamperometric (CA) tests in another clear PBS solution after 
dipping.  The electrode voltage was held at -0.05 V.  In chronoamperometry method, 500 µL 10 
mM glucose aqueous solution was added sequentially into the bulk PBS solution every one 
hundred seconds.  The electrochemical response shows a stairs-like curve: a larger net current 
change appears when glucose solution was added and the current signal reached a stable value 
within 100 seconds.  The continuous signals from CA indicate that glucose oxidase was 
immobilized on the electrode effectively after crosslinking with glutaraldehyde. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 35 Temporal chronoamperometric signals from the GOx/PB/SPCE electrode 
toward glucose 
- 36 - 
 
參考資料 
1. Addeo, R., et al., Panitumumab: a new frontier of target therapy for the treatment of 
metastatic colorectal cancer. Expert Review of Anticancer Therapy, 2010. 10(4): p. 
499-505. 
2. Caraglia, M. and Santini, D., Hot topic: Target Therapy of Bone Metastases and Tumours. 
Current Cancer Drug Targets, 2009. 9(7): p. 789-790. 
3. Kitamura, T. and Taketo, M.M., Keeping out the bad guys: Gateway to cellular target 
therapy. Cancer Research, 2007. 67: p. 10099-10102. 
4. Longo, R., et al., Pancreatic cancer: From molecular signature to target therapy. Critical 
Reviews in Oncology Hematology, 2008. 68(3): p. 197-211. 
5. Mitsudomi, T., Advances in Target Therapy for Lung Cancer. Japanese Journal of Clinical 
Oncology, 2010. 40(2): p. 101-106. 
6. Hsiao, H.M., et al., Respiration-Induced Kidney Motion on Cobalt-Chromium Stent 
Fatigue Resistance. Journal of Biomedical Materials Research Part B - Applied 
Biomaterials, 2009. 91B(2): p. 508-516. 
7. Fischman, D.L., et al., A Randomized Comparison of Coronary Stent Placement and 
Balloon Angioplasty in the Treatment of Coronary Artery Disease. New England Journal 
of Medicine, 1994. 331: p. 496-501. 
8. Hermiller, J.B., et al., Outcomes with the Polymer-based Paclitaxel-eluting TAXUS Stent 
in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus: the TAXUS-IV Trial. Journal of American College of 
Cardiology, 2005. 45(8): p. 1172-1179. 
9. Serruys, P.W., et al., A Bioabsorbable Everolimus-eluting Coronary Stent System 
(ABSORB) - 2-year Outcomes and Results from Multiple Imaging Methods. Lancet, 2009. 
373: p. 897-910. 
10. Farokhzad, O.C., et al., Cancer Res., 2004. 64: p. 7668-7672. 
11. Reddy, S.T., et al., Trends Immunol., 2006. 27: p. 573-579. 
12. Kastrati, A., et al., Restenosis after coronary placement of various stent types. American 
Journal of Cardiology, 2001. 87(1): p. 34-39. 
13. Yoshitomi, Y., et al., Interventional cardiology - Does stent design affect probability of 
restenosis? A randomized trial comparing Multilink stents with GFX stents. American 
Heart Journal, 2001. 142(3): p. 445-451. 
14. Stone, P.H., et al., Effect of endothelial shear stress on the progression of coronary artery 
disease, vascular remodeling, and in-stent restenosis in humans - In vivo 6-month 
follow-up study. Circulation, 2003. 108(4): p. 438-444. 
15. Wentzel, J.J., et al., Relationship between neointimal thickness and shear stress after 
wallstent implantation in human coronary arteries. Circulation, 2001. 103(13): p. 
1740-1745. 
 
- 38 - 
 
33. Wentzel, J.J., et al., Relationship between neointimal thickness and shear stress after 
wallstent implantation in human coronary arteries. Circ. 2001. 103: p. 1740-1745. 
34. Ku, D.N., Blood flow in arteries. Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech. 1997. 29: p. 399–434. 
35. Ku, D.N., et al., Pulsatile flow and atherosclerosis in the human carotid bifurcation. 
Positive correlation between plaque location and low oscillating shear stress, Atheroscler. 
1985. 5: p. 292–302. 
36. Chien, S., et al., Effects of hematocrit and plasma proteins on human blood rheology at 
low shear rates. J. Appl. Physiol., 1966. 21: p. 81-87. 
37. Seo, T., et al., Computational study of fluid mechanical disturbance induced by 
endovascular stents. Ann. Biomed. Eng., 2005. 33: p. 444-456. 
38. Bidoki, S.M., et al., Inkjet deposited circuit components. Journal of Micromechanics and 
Microengineering, 2010. 20(5). 
39. Kim, H.S., et al., Inkjet printed electronics for multifunctional composite structure. 
Composites Science and Technology, 2009. 69(7-8): p. 1256-1264. 
 
- 40 - 
 
Stenosis,” Biomedical Engineering, Trends in Materials Science, edited by A. N. Laskovski, 
InTech, 2011, pp. 447-464. 
• H. M. Hsiao*, K. H. Lee, Y. H. Chiu, and T. Y. Lee, “Simulation of Clinical Relevant 
Mechanical and Hemodynamic Behavior for Intravascular Stent,”  Principles and 
Applications of Biomedical Engineering, Academy Publish, 2012 (in press). 
 
國際研討會論文 
• H. M. Hsiao*, “Computational Simulations of Key Clinical Attributes for Intravasculat 
Stents,” BIT’s 2nd Annual World Congress of Nanomedicine-2011, Shenzhen, China, 
November 3-5, 2011. 
• K. H. Lee, H. M. Hsiao*, Y. C. Liao, Y. H. Chiu, and Y. S. Tee, “Development of 
Computational Models for Evaluation of Mechanical and Hemodynamic Behavior of an 
Intravascular Stent,” ASME 2011 6th Frontiers in Biomedical Devices Conference & 
Exhibition, ASME, Irvine CA, USA, September 26-27, 2011. 
• K. H. Lee, Y. C. Liao, Y. C. Cheng, and H. M. Hsiao*, “Hemodynamic Simulation of 
Intra-stent Blood Flow,” IUMRS-ICA 2011 12th International Conference in Asia, Taipei, 
Taiwan, September 19-22, 2011. 
• Y. H. Chiu, H. M. Hsiao*, Y. S. Tee, and T. W. Weng, “Computational Modeling of 
Intravascular Stent Mechanical Behavior,” IUMRS-ICA 2011 12th International Conference 
in Asia, Taipei, Taiwan, September 19-22, 2011. 
• J. Y. Hu, Y. P. Lin, Y. W. Lu, H. M. Hsiao, and Y. C. Liao*, “Inkjet-Printed Micro Analytical 
Devices,” International Conference on Materials for Advanced Technology, Singapore, June 
26-July 1, 2011. 
• Z. K. Kao, Y. C. Liao*, Y. H. Hung, and H. M. Hsiao, “Highly Conductive Silver Lines via 
Dual Channel Inkjet-Printing Method,” International Conference on Materials for Advanced 
Technology, Singapore, June 26-July 1, 2011. 
• K. H. Lee, Y. C. Liao, S. H. Wang, J. K. Shen, F. Y. Liu, and H. M. Hsiao*, “Revisiting 
Computational Models for Intra-stent Flow: Effects of Rheology and Geometry on 
Hemodynamic Simulations,” 2011 International CAD Conference and Exhibition, Taipei, 
Taiwan, June 27-30, 2011. 
• H. M. Hsiao*, Y. H. Chiu, H. T. Wang, I. C. Kou, P. Y. Wong, and C. S. Chang, “Mechanical 
Behavior Simulation of Balloon-Expandable Stents by Computational Modeling,” 2011 
International CAD Conference and Exhibition, Taipei, Taiwan, June 27-30, 2011. 
• Z. K. Kao*, Y. H. Hung, H. M. Hsiao, and Y. C. Liao, “Highly Conductive Silver Lines with 
Inkjet Printing Chemistry,” ASME 2011 International Manufacturing Science and 
Engineering Conference, Corvallis OR, USA, June 13-17, 2011. 
- 42 - 
 
• H. M. Hsiao*, Z. C. Lin, Y. C. Liao, and Y. K. Shen, “Effects of Drawing on Micron-sized 
Tubes for Making Endovascular Stents,” 2010 Conference on Society of Manufacturing 
Engineers, Taipei, Taiwan, November 6, 2010. 
• H. M. Hsiao*, “Design and Simulation of Micro Stent for Renal Artery Disease,” 第十四屆
奈米工程暨微系統技術研討會，高雄市，台灣，中華民國九十九年九月二日、三日。 
 
專利 
• 廖英志、高振凱，“噴墨技術在低溫下製作高導電銀薄膜”，中華民國專利申請中，中華
民國一百零一年。 
• 蕭浩明，“增強延長血管支架壽命之新設計”，中華民國專利申請準備中，中華民國一百
零一年。 
 
技術轉移 
• 本計畫所發展衍生之部份血管支架設計圖已技轉工業研究院生醫所，技轉金額為新台幣
45,652元。其它尚有技轉項目與業界洽談中。 
 
碩士畢業論文 
• 李冠輝，“血管支架設計對血液動力學之影響”，國立台灣大學機械工程系，中華民國一
百年十二月。 
• 王宏達，“氣球擴張式血管支架參數化設計與模擬”，國立台灣大學機械工程系，中華民
國一百年七月。 
• 陳威任，“探討不同微/奈米結構之陽極氧化鋁模板運用於細胞培養之研究”，國立台灣
大學機械工程系，中華民國一百年七月。 
• 鄭有成，“自動擴張式血管支架有限元素分析”，國立台灣大學機械工程系，中華民國一
百年七月。 
• 洪英翰，“化學還原法製作銀導線之雙噴頭噴墨製程”，國立台灣大學化學工程系，中華
民國一百年六月。 
• 洪英翰，“噴墨技術於生物感測器的應用與製程開發”，國立台灣大學化學工程系，中華
民國一百年六月。 
 
 
- 44 - 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
 
1. 本研究計畫所累積的知識與經驗，將有助於未來血管支架與標靶治療科技的
突破，並推動台灣未來高階醫療器材產業的發展，使台灣有機會參與這項二十一
世紀重要產業的起飛。 
 
2. 本研究計畫著眼於血管支架與藥物載具的設計、分析、製造、與塗藥等核心
技術的建立，以期達到雛型品快速設計製造之能力。所建立之核心技術可技轉給
民間公司，同時將尋找台灣可以切入的獨特利基市場，以開發血管支架作為標靶
治療藥物載具的可能性。 
 
3. 本研究計畫所發展之核心技術，可以被直接用來推動台灣血管支架與心導管
新產業的誕生，這也是台灣進入此一重要高階醫療器材市場的難得契機。 
 
4. 本研究計畫將可提升血管支架與藥物載具此一重要醫療科技的進步，預期所
開發獨特且可發表專利的新設計，將可對全球市場造成一定的影響。 
 
5. 在掌握核心技術後，我們未來將擁有自主能力開發多項產品，包括標靶治療
用心導管與血管支架藥物載具、週邊動脈金屬血管支架、人體可降解血管支架、
塗藥或細胞血管支架、膽管與尿管支架、神經導管支架。 
 
6. 本研究計畫訓練了多名碩博士研究生，使其擁有設計、電腦模擬、雷射切削、
塗藥、與感應器製造的全面訓練，同時也為國內未來生醫產業厚植人才與實力。 
 
 
 
 
 
- 46 - 
 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
若能取得專利，應該有機會引起國內外印刷電子業的注目與技術
移轉的可能性。 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 
 
 
- 48 - 
 
技術/產品應用範圍 
• 心腦血管支架 
• 週邊血管疾病，包括頸動脈、腎動脈、股動脈、大小腿動脈 
• 協助膽管、尿管、與氣管的擴張 
• 引導神經系統的修復 
• 作為藥物、細胞、或病毒載具，以進行癌症標靶治療或定點
藥物投遞 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
若能取得專利，應該有機會引起國外高階醫療器材大廠的注目與
技術移轉的可能性，預期效益。 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 50 - 
 
行，大會主席由英國 University Leader, Prof. Andrew Bell 擔任，大會組織
委員會，由歐洲主要大學學者所組成，並由 IEEE 組織的 Ultrasonics, 
Ferroelectrics, and Frequency Control (IEEE-UFFC) Society 所贊助。 
筆者所發表的論文為“Oscillations of Piezoelectricity Powered Dental 
Tools”，作者為台大機械工程系 C. L. Kung, C. H. Yang, T. Y. Lu and S. H. 
Chang。內容報告為討論壓電 (piezoelectric) 致動器所產生的規律性振動，
運用此振動於牙科手術刀具來清潔牙齒、鑽牙齒、抽神經、鋸牙齒骨等，
可產生較傳統刀具輕微之問題、小傷口較快復原等優點，論文重點是報告
積層式圓環壓電致動器之機電耦合行為及其機電轉換效率的分析，並進而
研究所推動牙刀的振動(緃向與橫向)性能。 
 
二、與會心得 
 感謝國科會的贊助，可得此機會參加國際級大會，見識英國人的組織與
辦事效率，所選擇的大會會場位於英國著名的 Heriot-Watt 大學(發明瓦特
蒸汽機的瓦特(Watt) )校園內的會議中心，由大學提供住宿，物美價廉，並
可步行至會場，用餐交通甚為方便，風景景觀優美。 
 
三、建議 
研討會趨勢著重於 “無鉛” (Lead-free)壓電材料、薄膜材料、能源轉換
為未來主要發展方向，值得參加。 
- 52 - 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：100年 6月 24日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 6月 11日出國抵達美國奧勒岡州 Corvallis，隔兩天開始參加為期
5天的 ASME會議，此會議邀請了許多國際知名的精密製造學者與專家，
因此學習到許多新的知識。 
6月 13日到 Oregon State University訪問。張教授為台大化工系之系友，
本次拜訪除了參觀之外，並討論合作的發展性與經費規劃等。之後參加
workshop，主要以討論製造薄膜之各式技術為主。 
6月14日於會場與台大機械系李貫銘老師與中興大學機械系盧銘詮老師
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2218 － E － 002 － 018 － 
計畫名稱 血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究 
出國人員
姓名 
廖英志 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學 
會議時間 
100年 6月 11日至 
100年 6月 19日 會議地點 美國奧勒岡州 Corvallis 
會議名稱 
(中文) 美國機械工程學會 2011年國際製造科學與工程會議 
(英文)ASME 2011 International Manufacturing Science and 
Engineering Conference (MSEC) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 運用噴墨印刷技術以製造高導電性銀導線材料 
(英文) Highly Conductive Silver Lines with Inkjet Printing 
Chemistry 
附件四之二 
- 54 - 
 
並討論台灣與美國兩個實驗室的合作交流。 
本人於此次在美國的 9天的行程當中，至奧勒岡州 Corvallis參加 ASME
國際會議、參訪 HP公司與 Oregon Sate University，對本人而言，收穫相當
多；對於本實驗室學生而言，發表個人實驗的成果，亦有助於建立其信心，
並增加英文聽說讀寫之能力。更重要是對於接下來實驗室的研究方向有了
更明確的目標，在此感謝學校與國科會的經費贊助。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容： 
攜回研討會論文合集一冊。 
 
攝於 ASME大會現場 
- 56 - 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：100年 7月 31日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 6月 26日出國抵達新加坡，隔天參加為期 5天的 ICMAT會議，
此會議邀請了許多國際知名的材料與製造領域的學者與專家，因此學習到
許多新的知識。由於本人投稿參加之領域為可撓式電子器材，本次會議中
有包括來自瑞典、法國、英國等地的多位專家參與。其中每一場次的 Invited 
speakers 都有二位以上，且多具有十數年的實務經驗，對本人而言，實有
相當大之助益。 
6月 27日下午於會場聽取李長明教授等數位專家之演說，其中多以工業
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2218 － E － 002 － 018 － 
計畫名稱 血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究 
出國人員
姓名 
廖英志 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學 
會議時間 
100年 6月 26日至 
100年 7月 2日 會議地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011年國際高等材料技術會議 
(英文 )International Conference on Materials for Advanced 
Technologies (ICMAT) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 噴墨技術所製作的微型感測器 
(英文) Inkjet-Printed Micro Analytical Devices 
附件四之三 
- 58 - 
 
做的研究並提出問題。 
3. 與南洋理工大學蘇培珍教授見面並討論兩個實驗室未來的合作
交流。 
本人於此次在新加坡的 7 天行程當中，參加 ICMAT 國際會議與到南洋
理工大學參訪，對本人而言收穫相當多，吸取相當多的寶貴經驗，並聽取
各國專家對實驗成果之意見，有助於日後成果發表。對於本實驗室的學生
而言，發表個人實驗的成果，亦有助於建立信心，並增加英文聽說之能力。
對本人而言，更重要是對於接下來實驗室研究的方向有了更明確的目標，
在此感謝國科會的經費贊助。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
攜回研討會論文合集一冊。 
 
攝於 ICMAT大會現場 
- 60 - 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：100年 11月 30日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 11 月 3 日抵達大陸深圳，次日參加為期 3 天的第二屆世界納米
醫藥峰會，並發表一篇論文，11月 6日結束國際研討會返抵台灣。 
本次國際研討會於大陸深圳會展中心舉行，主辦單位為 BIT World 
Congress，此次會議邀請許多國際知名的納米材料與生醫領域的學者專
家，現場並有許多國際與當地的生物科技、藥物研發、醫療器材公司參加
展覽，學習到多方面的知識。本次國際研討會共分為五大領域，包括納米
醫藥(Breaking Research of NanoMedicine)、納米科技與納米材料在生物醫藥
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2218 － E － 002 － 018 － 
計畫名稱 血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究 
出國人員
姓名 
蕭浩明 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學 
會議時間 
100年 11月 3日至 
100年 11月 5日 會議地點 大陸深圳 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011第二屆世界納米醫藥峰會 
(英文) BIT’s 2nd Annual World Congress of NanoMedicine-2011 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 心腦血管支架關鍵臨床性質的電腦模擬 
(英文) Computational Simulations of Key Clinical Attributes for 
Intravascular Stents 
附件四之四 
- 62 - 
 
北京)、藥物傳送(在深圳)，幾乎囊括了現今生醫領域最重要的議題。 
 
三、建議 
 主辦單位 BIT World Congress主辦此次國際會議的模式頗與眾不同，感
覺有強烈的企圖心，也積極 promote該公司所主辦的一系列大型國際會議。
在未來幾年內，應該值得觀察該公司與其相關會議活動的發展情形。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 攜回研討會論文合集一冊。 
 
- 64 - 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下國際合作研究計畫 
國外研究報告 
日期：99年 10月 31日 
                                 
NSC-NSF 
2010 BSBA Summer Institute 
(University of Illinois Urbana Champaign) 
一、國際合作研究過程 
NSC-NSF Summer Institute on Bio-inspired Sensing and Bio-inspired Actuation (BSBA) 
The goals of the NSC-NSF Summer Institute on Bio-inspired Sensing and Bio-inspired 
Actuation (BSBA) are to provide a platform for researchers from a diverse background to 
exchange ideas and promote international collaborations in the BSBA area between researchers in 
the US and in Taiwan.  The first NSC-NSF BSBA Summer Institute was launched on July 12-23, 
2010 at University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, where the PI (Professor Hao-Ming Hsiao) 
serves as the Institute Executive Secretary and the co-PI (Professor Shuo Hung Chang) serves as 
the Institute Director (Attachment 5-1-1).  There are 40 institute members in total, half of them 
from Taiwan and half of them from US.  The Taiwan members were selected from more than 
100 applications with a much diverse background from engineer to medical doctor.  All institute 
members were under 2-week intensive programs full of lectures, laboratory sessions, and various 
activities instructed by the US faculty.  The institute members were able to learn knowledge and 
receive training from both engineering and biology disciplines. 
 
http://www.me.ntu.edu.tw/BSBA.html 
http://bsbasi-2010.mechse.illinois.edu/ 
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2218 － E － 002 － 043 － 
計畫名稱 血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究 
出國人員
姓名 
蕭浩明、張所鋐 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學 
合作國家 美國 合作機構 伊利諾大學香檳分校 
出國時間 
99年 7月 12日至 
99年 7月 23日 出國地點 伊利諾大學香檳分校 
附件五之一 
- 66 - 
 
The seminars are very informational, knowledgeable, and inspiring.  However, those speakers 
have a long story to tell, but the time seems to be really limited.  As a result, they usually 
skipped a lot of technical details that might actually inspire students.  Furthermore, some 
presentations might be related to the unpublished results from the speakers so that they did not 
want to get into too specific details in public sometimes.  It would be better if a longer Q&A 
session or break time could be scheduled to interact with the speakers after their talks.  This will 
also give the students more time to digest the class materials, refresh their mind, and be more 
focused on the seminar afterwards.  Therefore, two long seminars (1.5 hours each) a morning 
with one-hour break time in between will be more efficient. 
Next, laboratory modules were interesting but less challenging.  Some practices, such as 
cutting a PDMS pad or mixing fluids, were too easy for students.  Furthermore, the laboratory 
classes were given in a way to show the overall process, instead of teaching the design principles.  
It would be better if the TAs could explain the theories behind the stories more explicitly on how 
they apply the principles to design experiments and then ask students to design their own 
experiments.  A competition for teams might also make the experiments more exciting. 
Due to diversified backgrounds of the students, some laboratory modules can be elective.  
Many students are biologists, and thus cell culture class is less interesting to them than to those 
engineers.  On the other hand, device fabrication is new to biologist but repetitive to engineers.  
Although we paired up engineers with biologists in a team to create better balance of interests, it 
might be better to make laboratory classes elective so that members could choose the laboratory 
sessions they are interested and spend their time more efficiently. 
Finally, the Summer Institute needs to have more networking events.  There were several 
successful social occasions in the Summer Institute.  For example, the speed dating session set 
up a great social occasion to get familiar with all the participants.  Members were very involved 
in learning what their partners’ research and where they came from.  This session really helped 
to build friendships and team interactions.  More importantly, members could talk about their 
research needs and find good partners to create research teams.  These events would really help 
the members to develop not only friendships but also career partnerships, and therefore the 
organizing committee need to consider promoting these networking events. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 68 - 
 
 Professor Adnan Akay (Vice President, Bilkent University, Turkey; 
Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Carnegie Mellon 
University) 
 
三. 執行單位: 
台灣: 
 Director: 張所鋐教授 (國立台灣大學機械工程系) 
 Co-Director : 沈孟儒教授 (國立成功大學醫學院) 
 Executive Secretary: 蕭浩明副教授 (國立台灣大學機械工程系) 
美國: 
 Director: Professor K. Jimmy Hsia (University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign) 
 Co-Director : Professor Thomas Daniel (University of Washington) 
 
四. 說明: 
1. 生物啟發之感測與致動技術國際夏令研習班 (NSC-NSF BSBA Summer 
Institute) 之主要目的是為了促進不同領域的台灣與美國學者 (如工程、醫學、
生物、科學)，在 bio-sensing 和 bio-actuation 方面的國際合作研究。夏令研習
班將聘請 BSBA相關領域的國際專家學者參與教學，除了教授工程與生物科技
的知識外，並提供最新的研究課題與實際操作相關儀器的課程，例如工程上奈
米和微米製程、以及生物學上細胞組織的培養等。 
 
2. 第一屆夏令研習班將於 2010年 7月 12日至 7月 23日在美國伊利諾大學香
檳分校 (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign) 舉行為期二週的研習。 
3. 台美合計將有 40名學員，其中 20名學員由台灣執行單位遴選，另 20名學
員由美國執行單位遴選。台灣方面遴選之學員，由國科會補助赴美機票費與部
分學費及食宿費用。 
 
- 70 - 
 
  
    BSBA海報       UIUC製贈獎牌 
 
 
 
Group picture before MNTL Building at University of Illinois, Urbana Champaign 
- 72 - 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下國際合作研究計畫 
國外研究報告 
日期：100年 12月 31日 
                                 
行政院國家科學委員會與美國國家科學基金合作舉辦 
生物啟發之感測與致動技術 2011年國際夏令研習班 
一、國際合作研究過程 
行政院國家科學委員會(National Science Council)和美國國家科學基金會
(National Science Foundation)共同贊助之國際學術研究交流計畫「生物啟發
之感測與致動技術 2011 年國際夏令研習班 (Bio-Inspired Sensing & 
Bio-Inspired Actuation Summer Institute)」，於 100年 7月 11日至 7月 22日
於國立台灣大學召開。由於本計畫與此項國際學術研究交流關係很密切、
淵源頗深，因此計畫主持人協助承辦此一台美合作國際夏令研習班。 
生物啟發之感測與致動技術國際夏令研習班(NSC-NSF BSBA Summer 
Institute)之主要目的是為促進不同領域的台灣與美國學者(如工程、醫學、
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2218 － E － 002 － 018 － 
計畫名稱 血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究 
人員姓名 蕭浩明、張所鋐 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學 
合作國家 美國 合作機構 伊利諾大學香檳分校 
時間 
100年 7月 11日
至 
100年 7月 22日 
地點 台灣大學 
附件五之二 
- 74 - 
 
 
 
  
此外，每天下午時段，所有學員分成四組(如隔頁附圖所示)，就微機電
製程、奈米科技、細胞培養、基因工程等四大課題進行學習與實驗。本次
夏令研習班實驗部份獲得北部微機電中心、台大生技中心、與台大機械系
的全力支持，使得夏令研習班得以成功圓滿落幕，與會來賓、教授、學員
均讚不絕口。 
- 76 - 
 
「生物啟發之感測與致動技術國際夏令研習班」海報 
- 78 - 
 
專題演講 
 
專題演講 
- 80 - 
 
海報競賽 
 
閉幕頒獎 
doi:10.1016/j.jcin.2012.01.010 
 2012;5;362 J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. Intv.
Hao-Ming Hsiao 
 Why Similar Stent Designs Cause New Clinical Issues
This information is current as of March 19, 2012 
 http://interventions.onlinejacc.org/cgi/content/full/5/3/362
located on the World Wide Web at: 
The online version of this article, along with updated information and services, is
 by guest on March 19, 2012 interventions.onlinejacc.orgDownloaded from 
their original shape during deployment. If stress sufficient to perma-
nently distort a balloon-expandable stent is applied to a Nitinol stent,
the extended elastic range usually makes the distortion reversible. The
self-expanding stent “springs back.”
The great majority of contemporary coronary stents are
balloon expandable, and depending on design, are subject to
longitudinal stent distortion, a troublesome but infrequent
procedural complication. Nitinol stents are infrequently used
during percutaneous coronary intervention, but would be un-
likely to suffer from longitudinal distortion. Longitudinal
strength is but one desirable mechanical characteristic of a
stent, and others include ease of delivery, flexibility, radial
strength, side-branch access, and radio-opacity.
John A. Ormiston, MBChB*
Susann Beier, MSc
Brett Cowan, BE(Hons), MBChB
Mark W. I. Webster, MBChB
*Mercy Angiography Unit, 1st Floor
Mercy Hospital
98 Mountain Road
Epsom, Auckland 1003
New Zealand
E-mail: johno@mercyangiography.co.nz
doi:10.1016/j.jcin.2012.02.001
REFERENCE
1. Ormiston J, Webber B, Webster M. Stent longitudinal integrity:
bench insights into a clinical problem. J Am Coll Cardiol Intv
2011;4:1310 – 07.
0 Deformaon 
St
re
ss
 Yield Point 
Plasc deformaon Elasc deformaon 
Figure 1. The Stress/Strain Graph for Metals
The graph shows that with increasing stress, all metals initially develop reversible deformation. Once the yield point is exceeded, permanent plastic deformation
occurs. For balloon-expandable stents, both deployment and longitudinal distortion occur in the plastic deformation zone. Clinically self-expanding stents oper-
ate in their large elastic deformation range, so they have less propensity for permanent deformation.
J A C C : C A R D I O V A S C U L A R I N T E R V E N T I O N S , V O L . 5 , N O . 3 , 2 0 1 2 Letters to the Editor
MA R C H 2 0 1 2 : 3 6 2 – 3
363
 by guest on March 19, 2012 interventions.onlinejacc.orgDownloaded from 
Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulation on Biomedical Stent Design 
  
974
and stent design [1-2]. A growing consensus suspects 
that restenosis may be a result of fluid disorder or, more 
precisely, the variation of wall shear stress (WSS) 
distribution in stented arteries (Fig. 1). Given the role 
of shear stress in the development of atherosclerotic 
plaques, it is reasonable to assume that it may also 
contribute to the neointimal proliferation process after 
stenting. Low or oscillating WSS has been observed at 
the location where neointimal thickening in stented 
arteries is the greatest [3-7]. Furthermore, several 
theoretical and in-vivo studies have suggested that low 
or oscillating shear stress, particularly when its value is 
less than 5 dyne/cm2, may lead to endothelial 
proliferation of smooth muscle cells [8-9]. 
In this study, we developed two CFD models (an 
axisymmetric model and a 3-D stent model) to 
investigate the effects of strut geometry and blood 
rheology on the blood flow pattern changes in stented 
arteries.  The size and location of the recirculation 
zone and wall shear stress distribution over the stented 
area were also studied for both Newtonian and 
non-Newtonian flows. Based on this investigation, 
general guidelines for CFD simulations in stented 
arteries are presented to help future stent design and 
hemodynamic analysis with higher accuracy and 
efficiency. 
2. Computational Fluid Dynamics Models 
A parametric axisymmetric model was developed 
(Fig. 2). The stent was placed in an idealized straight 
artery with a uniform diameter D of 4 mm. The stent 
struts were simplified as a series of parallel rings (strut 
width w, strut height h, strut fillet size r, and 
inter-strut spacing s) and the artery wall was assumed 
to be fixed and no-slip. A fully-developed 
Hagen-Poiseuille flow was prescribed as the inlet 
boundary condition, while uniform pressure was 
prescribed as the outlet boundary condition. Blood 
was modeled as an incompressible fluid with a density 
of ρ=1060 kg/m3. Commercial software COMSOL 
Multiphysics was used to generate unstructured grids 
and perform simulations for the axisymmetric model. 
The typical number of grid nodes in this axisymmetric 
model was approximately 9000. 
In addition, a 3-D stent model was also developed to 
simulate the blood flow through an actual stent (Fig. 3). 
This type of CFD simulation was performed with the 
commercial CFD solver ANSYS FLUENT using its 
pressure-velocity coupled algorithm to solve the 
Navier-Stokes equation. This algorithm is 
well-established and able to solve the velocity and 
pressure fields simultaneously to provide robust 
solutions. Approximately 9,000,000 unstructured mesh 
grids were generated for this 3-D stent model. 
Boundary conditions and fluid properties were 
prescribed in similar ways as those in the axisymmetric 
model. 
The fluid was assumed to be incompressible and 
governed by Navier-Stokes and mass conservation 
equations: 
 
 
Fig. 1  In-stent Restenosis Potentially Resulted from Wall Shear Stress Distribution. 
Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulation on Biomedical Stent Design 
  
976
non-Newtonian flow simulation, viscosity is described 
by the Carreau model: 
( )
2/)1(2
0 1
−
•
∞∞
⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
⎟
⎠
⎞
⎜
⎝
⎛+−+=
n
Sλμμμμ  (4) 
where μ∞ and μ0 are viscosities when shear rate 
becomes infinity and zero, respectively, S‧ is the shear 
rate, and λ and n are material coefficients. These 
parameters can be obtained by fitting the Carreau 
model to the experimental data where the fitted values 
are μ∞ = 0.0035 kg/m-s, μ0 = 0.25 kg/m-s, λ = 25.00 s, 
and n = 0.25 [10-11]. The relationship between the 
viscosity and shear rate in this Carreau model is 
shown in Fig. 4. 
3. Results and Discussion 
3.1 Newtonian Flow Simulation of Various Stent Strut 
Geometries 
Newtonian flow simulation of various stent strut 
geometries was investigated using the axisymmetric 
model. A representative velocity streamline plot and 
its corresponding WSS distribution around the stented 
area are illustrated in Fig. 5(a) and Fig. 5(b), 
respectively. The WSS quickly rises to the maximum 
when the flow hits the corner of the first stent strut. It 
then turns to negative between the first and second 
struts, where the flow recirculation develops, but 
climbs back to positive when crossing the second strut, 
with only half of the previous value left this time. The 
same process repeats itself periodically when the strut 
geometry and inter-strut spacing remain the same. It is 
apparent that the flow recirculation caused by the 
presence of the struts is locally confined within the 
region behind each strut (or between two adjacent 
struts) and that its corresponding WSS value is 
negative. Depending on the distance of the inter-strut 
spacing, the flow may reattach to the artery wall 
somewhere downstream of each strut where WSS 
turns from negative to zero. The distal recirculation 
length L, a good indicator of neointimal proliferation 
tendency, is defined as the total distance of negative 
WSS behind the last strut. 
In all simulations performed in this study (Re < 800 
with various strut geometries), the calculated distal 
recirculation length L rarely exceeds one lumen 
diameter. In addition, it was found that simulation 
results converge to similar values when the 
axisymmetric model contains more than two parallel 
rings (or struts). Therefore, simulations based on two 
or three parallel rings (or struts) are sufficient to yield 
representative hemodynamic predictions in stented 
arteries. In this study, we selected the three-ring model 
for all axisymmetric simulations performed. 
The size of the distal recirculation length L depends 
on the strut geometry. Fig. 6(a) shows the correlation 
between the dimensionless distal recirculation length 
 
 
Fig. 4  Non-Newtonian fluid viscosity vs. shear rate in Carreau model. 
Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulation on Biomedical Stent Design 
  
978
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 6  (a) Recirculation length vs. strut height (Re = 200-800, s/D = w/D = 0.1, r/D = 0.02); (b) Recirculation length vs. strut 
spacing (Re = 200-800, w/D = 0.1, h/D = 0.05, r/D = 0.02). 
 
(a)-1 (b)-1 (c)-1 
(a)-2 (b)-2 (c)-2 
Fig. 7  Velocity streamline plot and WSS distribution (Re = 400, w/D = 0.1, h/D = 0.05, r/D = 0.02); (a) Flow recirculation 
occurred throughout entire inter-strut spacing (s/D = 0.06); (b) Flow reattachment started when WSS value turned to slightly 
above zero (s/D = 0.19); (c) Full reattachment occurred (s/D = 0.54). 
 
recirculation and return of regular shear flow. The 
percentage of recirculation zone versus the inter-strut 
spacing s/D for various Reynolds numbers is 
summarized in Fig. 8. It shows that a lower Reynolds 
number typically has a smaller flow recirculation zone 
and facilitates the flow reattachment. 
3.2 Stent Polishing on Newtonian Flow Hemodynamics 
Stent surface smoothness is one of the key factors 
for bio-compatibility. A smooth surface can prevent 
thrombosis by keeping the rate of platelet 
accumulation at a low level [12-13]. A stent is 
typically manufactured by laser cutting the intended 
design pattern onto the surface of a hypotube, the 
starting tube for the manufacture of intravascular 
stents and other biomedical devices [14-15]. The 
as-cut stent surface is then electrochemically polished 
to achieve a good surface finish. Electrochemical 
polishing is a surface-improving process in which a 
metallic stent is smoothed by polarizing it anodically 
in an adequate electrolyte. This process causes fillet 
formation at the edges of stent struts. A higher degree 
of polishing results in a larger fillet size and rounder 
strut cross-section. 
Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulation on Biomedical Stent Design 
  
980
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 9  (a) Recirculation length vs. fillet radius (Re = 200-800, s/D = w/D = 0.1, h/D = 0.05); (b) Streamline plot of velocity field 
(Re = 400, r/D = 0 vs. 0.02 vs. 0.05 from top to bottom). 
Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulation on Biomedical Stent Design 
  
982
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 11  (a) WSS distribution around stent struts (flow rate = 250 mL/min, s/D = w/D = 0.1, h/D = 0.05, r/D = 0.02); (b) 
Corresponding shear rate distribution around stent struts; (c) Corresponding viscosity distribution around stent struts. 
 
Table 1  Total wall surface area exposed to low shear 
stresses in various models. 
Strut Geometry Viscosity Model 
Low Shear Stress Area, 
mm2(< 5 dyne/cm2) 
Square, r/D = 0 Newtonian 13.7 
Square, r/D = 0 Carreau 12.6 
r/D = 0.02 Newtonian 12.7 
r/D = 0.02 Carreau 11.7 
Round, r/D = 0.05 Newtonian 9.1 
Round, r/D = 0.05 Carreau 8.2 
Since the axisymmetric model and the 3-D stent 
model yield similar results in this study, it is thus 
reasonable to simulate the blood flow as a Newtonian 
flow in stented arteries using the simpler axisymmetric 
model. The assumptions of Newtonian flow and 
axisymmetric model are much simpler and could 
improve convergence and reduce computational time. 
Computational Fluid Dynamics Simulation on Biomedical Stent Design 
  
984
addition to the actual 3-D stent model. The discoveries 
in this paper could provide great insights for future 
stent design optimization in attempts to reduce 
restenosis. 
Acknowledgments  
This research was supported by the National 
Science Council in Taiwan through Grant NSC 
99-2218-E-002-018. The authors gratefully appreciate 
the support and help from program manager Professor 
S. S. Lu. The authors would also like to thank 
Professor C. C. Hsu in the Chemical Engineering 
Department at National Taiwan University for 
providing the COMSOL license.  
References 
[1] Kastrati, A.; et al. Restenosis after Coronary Placement of 
Various Stent Types. Am. J. Cardiol. 2001, 87, 34-39. 
[2] Yoshitomi, Y.; et al. Interventional Cardiology-Does 
Stent Design Affect Probability of Restenosis? A 
Randomized Trial Comparing Multilink Stents with GFX 
Stents. Am. Heart. J. 2001, 42, 445-451. 
[3] LaDisa, J. F.; et al. Alterations in Wall Shear Stress 
Predict Sites of Neointimal Hyperplasia after Stent 
Implantation in Rabbit Iliac Arteries. Am. J. Physiol. 
Heart Circ. Physiol. 2005, 288, H2465-H2475. 
[4] Lee, D.; Chiu, J. J. Intimal Thickening under Shear in a 
Carotid Bifurcation-A Numerical Study. J. Biomech. 
1996, 29, 1-11. 
[5] Mongrain, R.; Rodes-Cabau, J. Role of Shear Stress in 
Atherosclerosis and Restenosis after Coronary Stent 
Implantation. Rev. Esp. Cardiol. 2006, 59, 1-4. 
[6] Stone, P. H.; et al. Effect of Endothelial Shear Stress on 
the Progression of Coronary Artery Disease, Vascular 
Remodeling, and In-Stent Restenosis in Humans-In Vivo 
6-Month Follow-up Study. Circulation 2003, 108, 
438-444. 
[7] Wentzel, J. J.; et al. Relationship between Neointimal 
Thickness and Shear Stress after Wallstent Implantation 
in Human Coronary Arteries. Circulation 2001, 103, 
1740-1745. 
[8] Malek, A. M.; Alper, S. L.; Izumo, S. Hemodynamic 
Shear Stress and Its Role in Atherosclerosis. JAMA 1999, 
282, 2035-2042. 
[9] Traub, O.; Berk, B. C. Laminar Shear Sress-Mechanisms 
by which Endothelial Cells Transduce an Atheroprotective 
Force. Rterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 1998, 18, 677-685. 
[10] Chien, S.; et al. Effects of Hematocrit and Plasma 
Proteins on Human Blood Rheology at Low Shear Rates. 
J Appl Physiol 1966, 21, 81-87. 
[11] Seo, T.; Schachter, L. G.; Barakat, A. I. Computational 
Study of Fluid Mechanical Disturbance Induced by 
Endovascular Stents. Ann. Biomed. Eng. 2005, 33, 
444-456. 
[12] Bertrand, O. F.; et al. Biocompatibility Aspects of New 
Stent Technology. J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 1998, 32, 
562-571. 
[13] Scheerder, I.; et al.  Biocompatibility of Coronary Stent 
Materials: Effect of Electrochemical Polishing. 
Materwiss Werksttech 2001, 32, 142-148. 
[14] Hsiao, H. M.; et al. Life Assessment of a 
Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal 
Artery Stenosis. In Biomedical Engineering, Trends in 
Materials Science, InTech; Laskovski, A. N., Eds.; 2011; 
447-464. 
[15] Lin, Z. C.; et al. Anisotropic Behavior of Radiopaque 
NiTiPt Hypotube for Biomedical Applications. Adv. Eng. 
Mater. 2009, 11, B189-B193. 
 
drugs facilitates management of the sequential complex
biological processes following stent implantation. Differ-
ent types of drug for each period after intervention can be
administered independently. The depot stent has several
other potential advantages. In addition to the program-
mable drug release feature mentioned above, the depot
stent is free of surface coating layers, thereby reducing
contact between the artery wall and the polymer
compound. Such contact is believed to increase the risk
of chronic inflammation or stent thrombosis. Another
benefit is the reduction of the overall stent profile due to
the absence of surface coating layers. The lower stent
profile allows access to smaller lesion sites and offers
physicians more treatment options, easier operation and
greater delivery control.
The depot stent was originally developed for the
coronary indication to increase the flexibility of the drugs
administered. However, we believe this innovative stent
concept could become more suitable and powerful in the
renal indication for potential treatment of both renal artery
stenosis (RAS) and its associated kidney diseases at the
same time, as RAS is usually related to progressive
hypertension, renal insufficiency or kidney failure recipro-
cally. Therefore, we propose to use the depot stent in RAS
patients: drugs preventing neointima proliferation can be
applied on the outside portion of the reservoirs closer to the
artery wall, whereas on the inside portion of the reservoirs,
drugs for kidney diseases can be loaded and carried by the
blood stream to the distal kidney organ for direct target
therapy. This proposed method could potentially help to
treat two renal problems in one attempt.
In recent years, computational modelling has emerged
as an important tool for optimisation of stent designs and
can be used along with experimental data to improve stent
performance (Dumoulin and Cochelin 2000; Migliavacca
et al. 2007; Donnelly et al. 2007; Gervaso et al. 2008;
Early et al. 2009; Hsiao et al. 2009). Such models could
give insights into various aspects of stent design that may
consequently reduce the risk of vascular injury and
restenosis. Computational modelling also provides exten-
sive information under highly controlled conditions,
making it feasible to screen various stent design iterations
prior to costly prototyping. Since drug reservoirs on the
stent struts may weaken the scaffolding structure and
compromise the mechanical integrity, we developed
several computational models to assess key clinical
relevant attributes of the depot stent using finite element
analysis. During a survey of the literature, the authors
found very few articles investigating the mechanical
integrity of the depot stent. Therefore, the objective of this
paper was to systematically study the effects of these
micro-sized drug reservoirs on the mechanical behaviour
and structural integrity of the drug-eluting renal stent.
2. Computational model development
2.1 Depot stent configuration
A newly developed L-605 cobalt–chromium balloon-
expandable renal stent Herculink Elite (Abbott Lab, Santa
Clara, CA, USA) was used as the ‘standard’ stent in this
study. Micro-sized drug reservoirs were created on this
standard renal stent to investigate their impact on the stent
mechanical integrity. The use of the cobalt–chromium
material enables a reduction in stent wall thickness
(127mm; 0.005 inch) relative to traditional stainless steel
to improve the stent haemodynamic properties while
retaining adequate visibility under fluoroscopy. The stent
was designed to form a series of nested rings
interconnected with small bridging connectors (COs).
The design parameters such as crown ((CR) or apex)
radius and strut dimension were tailored to optimise the
overall stent performance. The unique stent design
provides excellent flexibility and low profile to allow
physicians for easy delivery. The stent family covers the
nominal stent inner diameters from 4 to 7 mm. In clinical
use, the stent may be post-expanded to 1 mm greater than
Figure 1. Depot stent concept with different types of drugs and
release rates administered independently of opposite sides of the
stent.
H.-M. Hsiao and Y.-H. Chiu2
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 [H
ao
-M
ing
 H
sia
o]
 at
 12
:21
 22
 M
arc
h 2
01
2 
Intravascular Stents and Associated Delivery Systems’, to
serve as a guide for the medical device industry. In addition
to the routine stent dimensional tests such as dimensional
verification, percent surface area, foreshortening and recoil,
this document lists several key clinical relevant functional
attributes in which the FDA is interested when reviewing
future new stent submissions. For the balloon-expandable
stent, these key clinical attributes include radial strength
(RS), stresses–strains and fatigue resistance. Each of these
properties can serve as an indicator with respect to various
aspects of the stent integrity. In this study, these three key
clinical attributes were used to assess the mechanical
integrity of the depot stent.
2.2.1 Radial strength
One of the most important functions of the stent is to create a
scaffolding structure in the artery and exert radial force
against the artery wall to prevent its reclosure. RS reflects
the ability of the stent to resist collapse under short-term or
long-term external loads from the artery wall. It is defined as
the maximum radial pressure at which the stent experiences
irrecoverable deformation and eventually collapses.
2.2.2 Equivalent plastic strain
Since the in vivo deployment of a balloon-expandable
stent involves large plastic deformation, the equivalent
plastic strain (PEEQ) has to be calculated throughout the
stent. This stress–strain analysis provides an indication of
acute device failure. The stress–strain contour plots show
the distribution of plastic stress–strain and indicate the
most fracture-prone locations of a stent. Failure of a loaded
stent may result in loss of radial support of the stented
vessel or in perforation of the vessel by the fractured stent
struts.
2.2.3 Fatigue safety factor
Failure of a stent due to fatigue may result in loss of radial
support of the stented vessel, thrombus formation or focal
restenosis, or in perforation of the vessel by the broken
stent struts. This fatigue analysis, combined with the
previous stress–strain analysis and accelerated durability
bench testing, provides an indication of chronic device
durability. FDA recommends using a Goodman life
analysis to determine the fatigue resistance of the stent to
physiologic loading up to 4 £ 108 fatigue cycles. The
fatigue safety factor (FSF) indicates how safe the stent is
from fatigue failure based on the Goodman life analysis. In
addition, several papers reported the use of finite element
analysis and Goodman life analysis to predict the stent
fatigue resistance. Schievano et al. (2010) built a patient-
specific computational pulmonary-valve model to inves-
tigate the inclination of its fatigue fracture. They showed
that the predicted high stress area correlated well with the
actual stent fracture location from the patient’s fluoro-
scopy images. Li et al. (2010) presented both compu-
tational and experimental methods to investigate the stent
stress distribution and verified the Goodman analysis
results by their fatigue experiment. Early and Kelly (2011)
evaluated the risk of fatigue fracture of peripheral stents
under vessel mechanical environment. They found that
compression was the dominant factor for stent fatigue in
femoral arteries, whereas bending was the most significant
one in popliteal arteries.
2.3 Finite element analysis
2.3.1 Finite element model
A stent placed in the vasculature is subjected to various
modes of loading that may consequently compromise the
mechanical integrity of the stent during its functional life.
In this study, several finite element models were
developed to evaluate the mechanical integrity and fatigue
resistance of the stent to various loading conditions
involved in manufacturing and deploying an intravascular
stent consistent with the current practice. The entire
stress–strain history of the stent in each loading step was
considered to incorporate the effects of accumulated
residual stresses–strains throughout the procedures. It
includes manufacturing (crimped onto a balloon catheter),
in vivo deployment (expanded into an artery), their
corresponding recoil and pulsatile loading subjected to
systolic/diastolic pressure. The performed finite element
analysis (FEA) simulation determines the state of stress
and strain, FSF and RS imposed by the following
continuous steps:
Step 1 : Stent crimping from 2.54 to 2 mm outer diameter
(OD) (crimp);
Step 2 : Stent recoil after crimping (crimp-recoil);
Step 3 : Stent expansion to 6.0 mm inner diameter (ID)
(expansion);
Step 4 : Stent recoil after expansion (expansion-recoil);
Step 5 : Stent fatigue under 180/80 mmHg systolic/dias-
tolic pressure, or stent RS
It should be noted that step 5 is to calculate either the
FSF or RS. In both cases, the first four steps have to be
repeated to include the effects of accumulated residual
stresses–strains incurred earlier.
2.3.2 Stent geometry and meshing
The ABAQUS/standard finite element solver (Dassault
Systemes Simulia Corp., Providence, RI, USA) was used to
carry out the stent analysis. Since a stent has repeated
patterns in the axial direction, three representative rings,
as shown in Figures 2 and 3, were modelled in order to save
computational time. In order to simulate the manufacturing
H.-M. Hsiao and Y.-H. Chiu4
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 [H
ao
-M
ing
 H
sia
o]
 at
 12
:21
 22
 M
arc
h 2
01
2 
where sm is the effective mean stress, sa is the effective
stress amplitude, s1m, s2m, s3m are the principal mean
stresses and s1a, s2a, s3a are the principal stress
amplitudes. The principal stresses s1, s2, s3 were first
gathered at each integration point for the pulsatile loading.
These principal stresses were used to calculate the
principal mean stresses and stress amplitudes. After
principal mean stresses and stress amplitudes were
determined, the effective mean stress and the effective
stress amplitude were then calculated at each integration
point via the above equations.
The Goodman diagram is a plot of the normalised
stress amplitude sa/se (on the y-axis) versus the normal-
ised mean stress sm/su (on the x-axis). The Equation
(sa/se) þ (sm/su) ¼ 1 represents the failure line on the
Goodman diagram for non-zero mean stress with the
modified endurance limit defined as
se ¼ se0 12 sm
su
 
; ð4Þ
where se0 is the material endurance limit for zero mean
stress.
The FSF is defined as the ratio of the stress amplitude
against the modified endurance limit. It quantifies the
proximity of the mean stress and stress amplitude at the
given integration points to the Goodman failure line. An
FSF of ,1.0 indicates the fatigue failure.
FSF ¼ se
sa
ð5Þ
3. Results and discussion
3.1 Depot stent reservoir capacity
A typical DES (three-ring model) with a 5mm coating
thickness carries a total drug-polymer volume of
0.0535 mm3 (Table 1). For the depot stent, our selected
reservoir size, which is 50% of the strut width in diameter
and 50% of the strut thickness in depth, is able to carry
approximately 0.0002 mm3 of drug-polymer compound
per single reservoir. Therefore, by creating 270 reservoirs
on the three-ring depot stent (equivalent to five reservoirs
on each BA or each CR, as shown in Figure 2), the total
reservoir capacity is sufficient to fully replace the coating
layers on the stent surface. This helps to eliminate the
surface coating completely and reduce the overall stent
profile. The only exception is the case in which the
reservoirs are located on the stent COs. Since the number
of COs is far lower than the number of BAs or CRs per
ring, its total reservoir capacity is only one-ninth of the
desired coating volume; thus, the CO reservoirs cannot be
used alone.
The total volume of the drug-polymer compound can
be doubled to 0.110 mm3 by creating reservoirs on the
entire stent surface, as shown in Figure 3. Furthermore, the
drug capacity can be quadrupled to 0.221 mm3 by cutting
through-hole instead of blind-hole reservoirs. The size and
density of the reservoirs could also be varied to increase
the total drug capacity. Therefore, the depot stent could
carry more drugs than the current DESs, thereby opening
up a wide variety of new treatment potentials and
opportunities.
3.2 Effects of reservoir location on stent integrity
The ‘standard’ stent, which has the same geometry as the
depot stent but no drug reservoirs, was first evaluated to
establish the baseline information. The simulation was
then carried out to investigate the effects of reservoir
location on the stent mechanical integrity such as RS,
PEEQ and the FSF. Five equally spaced circular reservoirs
were cut on three major locations of the depot stent,
namely, BAs, CRs and COs (Figure 2).
From Table 2, it is clear that the creation of blind-hole
reservoirs on either BAs or COs resulted in little or no
change in PEEQ and RS. However, the degradation in the
FSF, a 16–18% reduction compared to the standard case,
was the most significant of the key clinical attributes
investigated. This suggests that the depot stent with blind-
hole reservoirs on the BAs or COs is resistant to acute stent
fracture or vessel collapse but susceptible to chronic stent
Table 1. Estimated drug capacity (three-ring model) stent surface area ¼ 10.7 mm2.
Model Number of reservoirs Drug-polymer compound carried (mm3)
Five-micron thickness coating on stent surface – 0.0535
Blind-hole reservoir of 50% strut width
and 50% strut thickness (each reservoir)
– 0.0002
Through-hole reservoir (each reservoir) – 0.0004
Blind-hole reservoirs on COs 30 0.006
Blind-hole reservoirs on BAs 270 0.054
Blind-hole reservoirs on CRs 270 0.054
Blind-hole reservoirs on entire stent 552 0.110
Through-hole reservoirs on entire stent 552 0.221
Optimised depot stent 372 0.149
H.-M. Hsiao and Y.-H. Chiu6
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 [H
ao
-M
ing
 H
sia
o]
 at
 12
:21
 22
 M
arc
h 2
01
2 
through-hole depot stent is not as strong as its standard
counterpart and could be collapsed by pressure earlier at a
larger vessel size. Figure 7 shows the Goodman diagram
comparison of the pulsatile fatigue loading between the
standard case and the depot stent with through-hole
reservoirs. Calculated data of the standard case were well
below the Goodman diagram failure line, indicating that
the studied balloon-expandable stent is able to pass the
fatigue life of 4 £ 108 cycles under pulsatile fatigue
loading. Comparing Figure 7(a) with Figure 7(b), wherein
the very same stent but with through-hole reservoirs was
assessed for pulsatile fatigue loading, shows that the
calculated data of the depot stent migrated towards the
Goodman diagram failure line, indicating a significant drop
of 34% in FSF and thus much lower fatigue resistance to
systolic/diastolic blood pressure in this specific case.
Figure 8 shows the effects of reservoir depth on the key
stent attributes of the depot stent with the reservoir depth
ranging from 50%, 75% to 100% of the strut thickness. It is
shown that the RS decayed almost linearly with the
reservoir depth. The loss in RS reached the maximum, a
19% reduction compared to the standard case, when the
reservoirs were completely cut through. The PEEQ rose
moderately with the reservoir depth but eventually reached
a plateau for an approximately 15–20% gain. The FSF
remained the most critical factor among these key stent
attributes. According to the chart, it fell significantly right
from the beginning, even with shallow blind holes, but
eventually reached a plateau and settled with an
approximately 30–35% loss when compared to the
standard case. Since all key stent attributes suffered
quite significant losses in this specific case, it might not be
a good idea to have the depot stent with through-hole
reservoirs spread all over the entire stent. Given that the
curved CR is always a critical area in stent design, the best
depot stent should have a through-hole design with
reservoirs on the stent BAs and/or COs to have the
maximum drug capacity without significantly compromis-
ing its mechanical integrity. It should be noted that
although the depot stent has the wonderful feature of
precise and programmable drug control, it was found that
its FSF could be compromised to certain degrees for all
various forms of the depot stent.
3.4 Optimised depot stent
In this section, we propose an optimised depot stent which
has through-hole reservoirs evenly distributed on the entire
Figure 4. Contour plot of the PEEQ of the standard stent (top) and the stent with through-hole reservoirs (bottom) at crimping with a
magnified view of the stent CR in the right window.
H.-M. Hsiao and Y.-H. Chiu8
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 [H
ao
-M
ing
 H
sia
o]
 at
 12
:21
 22
 M
arc
h 2
01
2 
staggering 34% reduction. This significant gain in FSF was
partially due to the removal of through-hole reservoirs on
the CRs and partially due to the stress–strain re-
distribution mentioned above.
In summary, the total drug capacity of the proposed
optimised depot stent could be tripled, with marginal
trade-off in its key clinical attributes. The RS and the FSF
of the optimised depot stent were reduced by only 10% and
13%, respectively. Therefore, this depot stent is feasible
and could carry more drugs and deliver them smartly than
the current DESs, thereby opening up a wide variety of
new treatment potentials and opportunities such as the
renal indication.
4. Conclusion
The DES with micro-sized drug reservoirs is an innovative
concept for drug delivery and provides a promising future
for highly controlled release of different medications.
However, creating such drug reservoirs on the stent struts
may weaken the stent scaffolding capability and
compromise its mechanical integrity. In this study we
propose to use this innovative stent concept in the renal
indication for potential treatment of both RAS (upstream)
and its associated kidney diseases (downstream) at the
same time. The effects of these micro-sized drug
reservoirs on key stent clinically relevant functional
attributes of the drug-eluting renal stent were system-
atically and quantitatively investigated. Several con-
clusions were made from this study:
(1) The depot stent could carry more drugs than
DESs and thus opens up a wide variety of new
treatment potentials. The size and density of the
reservoirs could be varied to increase the total drug
capacity.
(2) The blind-hole reservoirs on either BAs or COs had
little or no effects in PEEQ and RS when compared to
the standard case. However, the FSF was reduced by
16–18%, suggesting that this specific depot stent is
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
Normalized mean stress
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
 st
re
ss
 a
m
pl
itu
de
1
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
Normalized mean stress
N
or
m
al
iz
ed
 st
re
ss
 a
m
pl
itu
de
Figure 7. Goodman diagram comparison of the standard stent
(top) and the stent with through-hole reservoirs (bottom).
+20%
+10%
0
0 25% 50% 75% 100%
–10%
–20%
–30%
–40%
RF
PEEQP
er
ce
nt
ag
e 
di
ffe
re
nc
e 
(%
)
FSE
Depth of drug reservoirs, % of strut thickness
Figure 8. Variation of key clinically relevant functional
attributes versus drug reservoir depth.
Figure 9. Proposed optimised depot stent.
H.-M. Hsiao and Y.-H. Chiu10
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 [H
ao
-M
ing
 H
sia
o]
 at
 12
:21
 22
 M
arc
h 2
01
2 
with through-hole reservoirs spread all over the entire
stent or on the CRs.
(5) Although the depot stent has the wonderful feature of
programmable drug control, its FSF could be
compromised to certain degrees for all various
forms of the depot stent.
(6) The best depot stent should have a through-hole design
with reservoirs on the stent BAs and/or COs to have
the maximum drug capacity without significantly
compromising its mechanical integrity. Our proposed
optimised depot stent was proven to be feasible and
could carry more drugs than the current DESs, with
marginal trade-off in its key clinical attributes.
These results can serve as the guidelines to help future
stent designs to achieve the best combination of stent
structural integrity and smart drug delivery. Based on
these findings, we will further investigate the reservoir
shape, size and density in hope of finding the best design
for the depot stent in the future.
Acknowledgements
This research was supported by the National Science Council in
Taiwan through Grants NSC 99-2218-E-002-018 and NSC 100-
2221-E-002-059. The authors gratefully appreciate the support
and help from NSC.
References
Al Suwaidi J, Berger PB, Holmes DR. 2000. Coronary artery
stents. J Am Med Assoc. 284(14):1828–1836.
Bell MR, Berger PB, Bresnahan JF, Reeder GS, Bailey KR,
Holmes DR. 1992. Initial and long-term outcome of 354
patients after coronary balloon angioplasty of total coronary-
artery occlusions. Circulation. 85(3):1003–1011.
De Beule M, Mortier P, Carlier SG, Verhegghe B, Van Impe R,
Verdonck P. 2008. Realistic finite element-based stent
design: the impact of balloon folding. J Biomech. 41(2):
383–389.
Donnelly EW, Bruzzi MS, Connolley T, McHugh PE. 2007.
Finite element comparison of performance related charac-
teristics of balloon expandable stents. Comp Meth Biomech
Biomed Eng. 10(2):103–110.
Dumoulin C, Cochelin B. 2000. Mechanical behaviour modelling
of balloon-expandable stents. J Biomech. 33(11):1461–1470.
Early M, Lally C, Prendergast PJ, Kelly DJ. 2009. Stresses in
peripheral arteries following stent placement: a finite element
analysis. Comp Meth Biomech Biomed Eng. 12(1):25–33.
Early M, Kelly DJ. 2011. The consequences of the mechanical
environment of peripheral arteries for nitinol stenting.
Med Biol Eng Comput. 49(11):1279–1288.
Finkelstein A, McClean D, Kar S, Takizawa K, Varghese K,
Baek N, Park K, Fishbein MC, Makkar R, Litvack F,
Eigler NL. 2003. Local drug delivery via a coronary stent with
programmable release pharmacokinetics. Circulation.
107(5):777–784.
Gervaso F, Capelli C, Petrini L, Lattanzio S, Di Virgilio L,
Migliavacca F. 2008. On the effects of different strategies in
modelling balloon-expandable stenting by means of finite
element method. J Biomech. 41(6):1206–1212.
Hsiao HM, Nikanorov A, Prabhu S, Razavi MK. 2009.
Respiration-induced kidney motion on cobalt-chromium
stent fatigue resistance. J Biomed Mater Res Part B.
91B(2):508–516.
Landau C, Lange RA, Hillis LD. 1994. Medical progress –
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty. N Engl J
Med. 330(14):981–993.
Li J, Luo Q, Xie Z, Li Y, Zeng Y. 2010. Fatigue life analysis and
experimental verification of coronary stent. Heart Vessels.
25(4):333–337.
Lowe HC, Oesterle SN, Khachigian LM. 2002. Coronary in-stent
restenosis: current status and future strategies. J Am Coll
Cardiol. 39(2):183–193.
Migliavacca F, Gervaso F, Prosi M, Zunino P, Minisini S,
Formaggia L, Dubini G. 2007. Expansion and drug elution
model of a coronary stent. Comp Meth Biomech Biomed
Eng. 10(1):63–73.
Morice M, Serruys PW, Sousa JE, Fajadet J, Hayashi EB,
Perin M, Colombo A, Schuler G, Barragan P, Guagliumi G,
Molnar F, Falotico R. 2002. A randomized comparison of a
sirolimus-eluting stent with a standard stent for coronary
revascularization. N Engl J Med. 346(23):1773–1780.
Moses JW, Leon MB, Popma JJ, Fitzgerald PJ, Holmes DR,
O’Shaughnessy C, Caputo RP, Kereiakes DJ, Williams DO,
Teirstein PS, Jaeger JL, Kuntz RE. 2003. Sirolimus-eluting
stents versus standard stents in patients with stenosis in a
native coronary artery. N Engl J Med. 349(14):1315–1323.
Schievano S, Taylor AM, Capelli C, Lurz P, Nordmeyer J,
Migliavacca F, Bonhoeffer P. 2010. Patient specific finite
element analysis results in more accurate prediction of
fatigue fractures: application to percutaneous pulmonary
valve implantation. J Biomech.. 43(4):687–693.
Serruys PW, Dejaegere P, Kiemeneij F, Macaya C, Rutsch W,
Heyndrickx G, Emanuelsson H, Marco J, Legrand V,
Materne P, Belardi J, Sigwart U, Colombo A, Goy JJ,
Vandenheuvel P, Delcan J, Morel MA. 1994. A comparison
of balloon-expandable-stent implantation with balloon
angioplasty in patients with coronary-artery disease. N Engl
J Med. 331(8):489–495.
Serruys PW, Sianos G, Abizaid A, Aoki J, den Heijer P,
Bonnier H, Smits P, McClean D, Verheye S, Belardi J,
Condado J, Pieper M, Garnbone L, Bressers M, Symons J,
Sousa E, Litvack F. 2005. The effect of variable dose and
release kinetics on neointimal hyperplasia using a novel
paclitaxel-eluting stent platform - the paclitaxel in-stent
controlled elution study (PISCES). J Am Coll Cardiol. 46(2):
253–260.
van der Hoeven BL, Pires NMM, Warda HM, Oemrawsingh PV,
van Vlijmen BJM, Quax PHA, Schalij MJ, van der Wall EE,
Jukema JW. 2005. Drug-eluting stents: results, promises and
problems. Int J Cardiol. 99(1):9–17.
Suresh S. 1991. Fatigue of materials. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
H.-M. Hsiao and Y.-H. Chiu12
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 [H
ao
-M
ing
 H
sia
o]
 at
 12
:21
 22
 M
arc
h 2
01
2 
et al.15 sequentially printed ascorbic acid and silver nitrate
solutions on papers with a HP Apollo 1200 printer. They
produced several antenna and capacitor patterns, whose
conductivity was 0.3% of bulk silver. In 2010, they modified the
pH value of inks and elevated conductivity of lines to 0.8% of
bulk silver.16 A similar approach is adopted in this article but
with different reaction agents.
In this article, we present a new manufacturing process for
conductive silver films by combining electroless plating silver
with dual-channel drop-on-demand method. Silver ammonia
solution and formaldehyde solution are used for their fast reac-
tion rate towards silver formation at room temperature. More-
over, both inks are clear aqueous solutions without any particles
and hence there is no nozzle clogging problem. Using this
printing procedure, conductive silver lines with a conductivity of
around 6% of bulk silver can be produced at room temperature.
Experimental
The silver ion ink was prepared by adding 0.3 g silver oxide (Alfa
Aesar) into 8 ml deionised (DI) water and 2 ml ammonium
hydroxide solution (33%, Sigma Aldrich) to form so-called ‘silver
ammonia solution’. The ink viscosity was 1.02 cP and the surface
tension was 63.0 mN m1. The reductive ink was prepared by
mixing aqueous formaldehyde solution (4 wt%, Mallinckrodt
Chemicals Inc.) and nitric acid (J. T. Baker) with a ratio of
[HNO3]/[HCHO] ¼ 0.005. The ink viscosity was 0.92 cP and the
surface tension was 61.9 mN m1. The contact angles of inks are
25 and 10 degrees for formaldehyde and silver-ammonium
solution, respectively, on glass slides. The molar ratio of form-
aldehyde to silver precursor is about 10 : 1, much higher than the
theoretical stoichiometric ratio of 1 : 2, to facilitate silver
reduction rate. Before printing, both aqueous solutions were
filtered with a 0.45 micron filter (Advantec HP045AN) to remove
airborne particles. The drop deposition was made by MicroFab
JetLab4 system (MicroFab Technologies Ins.) with two piezo-
electric nozzles of 50 micrometres. At room temperature, form-
aldehyde solution was first deposited on glass slides. Then, silver
ammonia complex solution was deposited at the same location
(Fig. 1). These inkjet printed lines were further heated in
a vacuum oven at temperatures between 25 to 150 C to increase
the electrical conductivity. Microstructures of printed samples
were examined with scanning electron microscopy (Nova
NanoSEM 230) and their thickness was determined by alpha
stepper surface profilometry (Veeco Dektak 6M). The crystalline
structure of the silver films was measured with an X-ray
diffractometer (Rigaku Ultima IV). Infrared spectra of printed
samples were obtained by a PerkinElmer spectrometer (Spectrum
100) with an attenuated total reflectance (ATR) accessory.
Results and discussion
Pattern formation
Stable ink drops were delivered to substrate surfaces to form
silver films. Fig. 2 shows the sequential drop generation process
of the formaldehyde solution as a function of time. The size and
velocity of the ejected droplets were then measured by image
analyses. For both silver ion ink and reductive ink, the drop
diameter is 55 mm in diameter at a frequency of 1000 Hz with
ejection velocity of 1.5 m s1 (silver ammonia solution) and 2.4 m
s1 (formaldehyde solution), respectively. To create silver thin
films, formaldehyde solution was first deposited on the substrate
followed by silver ammonia solution at the same position
(Fig. 1). Silver ammonium ink, which is the limiting reaction
agent, merges quickly into the formaldehyde liquid film.
Through the silver mirror reaction (eqn (1)),17 the reaction takes
several seconds to finish and shiny silver precipitate can be
observed.
HCHO + 2[Ag(NH3)
2]+ + 2OH/ HCOONH4 + 2 AgY +
3NH3 + H2O. (1)
Various patterns can be created by this inkjet reaction system.
Fig. 3 shows a dotted line pattern from two-drop collisions. The
silver dots have a diameter of 80 5 mmwith 100 mm dot spacing
in the horizontal direction. The single dot determines the
minimum size for the printed patterns. As the horizontal dot
spacing decreases to 25 mm, a continuous and uninterrupted
silver thin line of 100 mm width was printed (Fig. 3(b)) with
a single horizontal line deposition. To produce wider silver lines,
multiple parallel lines can be deposited with controllable vertical
line spacing distances. As depicted in Fig. 3(c), a silver line of
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of the inkjet reaction system.
Fig. 2 Sequential pictures of drop ejection process for formaldehyde
solution from a nozzle. The droplet size is about 55 mm. The flying time is
indicated at the bottom of pictures (in unit of microseconds).
J. Mater. Chem. This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2011
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 N
at
io
na
l T
ai
w
an
 U
ni
ve
rs
ity
 o
n 
25
 O
ct
ob
er
 2
01
1
Pu
bl
ish
ed
 o
n 
24
 O
ct
ob
er
 2
01
1 
on
 h
ttp
://
pu
bs
.rs
c.
or
g 
| do
i:1
0.1
039
/C1
JM
135
06F
View Online
a roughness of about 50 nm. The surface profile of the printed
line is in a zigzag shape instead of a smooth curve, possibly due to
the impurity removal on the top surface in the cleansing process.
Addition of polymer might be needed to help uniformity of
printed films and adhesion to substrates. The cross section areaA
can then be obtained by numerical integration of the measured
surface profile and is used to evaluate the resistivity of the printed
silver lines with eqn (2). The calculated resistivity of printed
conductive silver films at different sintering temperatures is
shown in Fig. 7. After cleansing and drying at room temperature,
the samples have a resistivity of 27 mU cm, or equivalently 6%
conductivity of bulk silver (1.6 mU cm). The samples were then
baked at 70 C for 1 h, and the resistivity decreased to 21 mU cm.
The resistivity continuously drops to 12 mU cm (14% conduc-
tivity of bulk silver) as the sintering temperature is increased to
150 C.
Although the resistance reduction with increasing sintering
temperature is in agreement with the literature, it is worth noting
that the conductivity of printed samples made by this inkjet
reaction method are of the same order before and after sintering.
Compared to printed silver films from nanoparticle or MOD
inks, the current inkjet printing method can produce more
conductive silver lines without sintering, and equally conductive
lines after sintering at high temperatures. Moreover, for nano-
particle inks, nozzle clogging caused by solvent evaporation
often interrupts the inkjet printing process. Since there are no
particles in our inks, clogging can be avoided in this dual jet
reaction system.
Microstructure characterization
The microstructures of printed silver thin films are first examined
by scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Fig. 8 shows the SEM
micrographs of printed silver lines on glass slides, after sintering
treatment in a vacuum oven. The sintered silver lines consist of
clusters of silver nanoparticles with a mean diameter of 80 nm
for sintering temperatures of 100 C (Fig. 8(a)). Similar to
printed films from either colloidal or MOD inks,3,9,11,21 silver
particles synthesized from our method fuse at high temperatures
and results in larger grain sizes. After heating at 150 C, particle
fusion leads to aggregates of about 150 nm in diameter (Fig. 8
(b)), and the grain boundary significantly decreases, as shown in
the literature,3,9,11 thus yielding higher electric conductivity.
Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectrum analysis was also
performed to probe chemical composition of printed samples.
Fig. 8(c) confirms the existence of silver with other elements in
glass material, such as SiO2, NaCO3 and MgO. Combining the
evidence from both IR (Fig. 5) and EDX spectra, those printed
samples are composed of pure silver after the rinsing process.
To understand atomic arrangements of the printed samples
before and after sintering, X-ray diffraction is also used to probe
the crystalline structures in the printed samples. XRD patterns of
printed silver films show sharp distinct peaks after sintering at
moderate temperatures. As shown in Fig. 9, the prominent peaks
at 2q values of about 38, 44, 64, and 77 are all in good agreement
with the characteristic values for metallic silver crystalline.22 The
Fig. 7 Dependence of resistivity on temperature for printed silver films
after sintering for an hour.
Fig. 8 SEM images of inkjet-printed silver lines at sintering tempera-
tures of (a) 100 C and (b) 150 C. (c) EDX spectrum of the inkjet printed
silver line in (b).
Fig. 9 XRD patterns of inkjet-printed silver lines at different sintering
temperatures: (a) 70 ˚C, (b) 100 ˚C, and (c) 150 ˚C.
J. Mater. Chem. This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2011
D
ow
nl
oa
de
d 
by
 N
at
io
na
l T
ai
w
an
 U
ni
ve
rs
ity
 o
n 
25
 O
ct
ob
er
 2
01
1
Pu
bl
ish
ed
 o
n 
24
 O
ct
ob
er
 2
01
1 
on
 h
ttp
://
pu
bs
.rs
c.
or
g 
| do
i:1
0.1
039
/C1
JM
135
06F
View Online
19 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent 
for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
Hao-Ming Hsiao1, Michael D. Dake, MD2, 
Santosh Prabhu3, Mahmood K. Razavi, MD4, 
Ying-Chih Liao5 and Alexander Nikanorov, MD3 
1National Taiwan University, Department of Mechanical Engineering, Taipei  
2Stanford University, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford, CA 94305 
3Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA 95054 
4St. Joseph Vascular Institute, Orange, CA 92868 
5National Taiwan University, Department of Chemical Engineering, Taipei 
1,5Taiwan 
 2,3,4USA 
1. Introduction     
A stent is a small wire-mesh tube that can be deployed into a blood vessel and expanded 
using a small balloon (or self-expanded) during angioplasty to open a narrowed blood 
vessel. The expanded stent exerts radial force against the walls of the artery, thereby 
preventing reclosure of the artery. The scaffolding provided by the stent can also help 
prevent small pieces of plaque from breaking off and traveling downstream to cause major 
events such as stroke in distal organs. 
Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis (RAS) is a common manifestation of generalized 
atherosclerosis and the most common disorder of the renal arterial circulation.  Untreated 
renal artery stenosis can lead to progressive hypertension, renal insufficiency, kidney 
failure, and increased mortality. Despite the proven efficacy of traditional surgical 
procedures such as endarterectomy and renal artery bypass, endovascular therapy has 
emerged as an effective strategy for treatment.  Renal angioplasty and endoluminal stenting 
are performed at an increasing rate, especially in patients with the most complex form of the 
disease (Blum et al., 1997; Zeller et al., 2003).  Balloon-expandable stenting for aorta-ostial 
renal artery stenosis has been demonstrated to be a safe and effective therapy (Rocha-Singh 
et al., 2005). It offers more permanent relief to patients without lifelong prescription for 
medications or surgical procedure. Figure 1 shows the Computed Tomography 
Angiography (CTA) of the stented left renal artery with severe calcification.  A longitudinal 
image cut through the aorta and the stented left renal artery reveals the cross section of stent 
struts and the extent of calcification around the renal artery wall. 
During normal breathing, the kidneys move up and down due to the diaphragm motion 
and the renal arteries subsequently experience bending at or close to the point of fixation to 
the aorta.  Figure 2 shows the angiograms of the kidney and the renal artery motion during 
respiration.  Figure 3 shows their motion using a guidewire and a catheter for tracking.  It is 
unclear what impact this kidney motion has on stents implanted in renal arteries.  This 
kidney/arterial motion is important in the evaluation of patients receiving balloon-
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
449 
patient presented 25 days after the procedure with renal insufficiency and uncontrolled 
hypertension. Angiography showed a thrombosed stent which required an aortorenal 
bypass. The explanted renal artery revealed a fractured incompletely-expanded stent.  
Similarly, Sahin et al. observed a fractured stent in a 55-year-old patient with mobile kidney 
(Sahin et al., 2005).  They observed fracture of the stent resulted from mobility of the left 
kidney and suspected that the intimal hyperplasia the patient had 2 months after stenting 
was triggered by inflammatory reaction at the stent fracture points due to destruction and 
irritation of the vessel wall.  The former case report underscores the possibility of “missed” 
fractures in balloon-expandable stents that could lead to restenosis and/or thrombosis and 
the latter points to a possible mechanism.  Stent fractures in renal arteries are difficult to 
identify and may be missed if they are not carefully looked for. 
Earlier studies investigated the impact of respiration-induced motion of the kidneys for the 
purpose of radiotherapy planning to accurately treat tumors. It was reported that the 
kidneys moved approximately 20-40 mm in the craniocaudal dimension during normal 
respiration, but provided limited quantitative information on the renal artery movement.  
Additionally, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) revealed that displacements of the left 
and right kidney during normal respiration varied from 2 to 24 mm and 4 to 35 mm, 
respectively (Moerland et al., 1994).  Forced respiration (maximal inspiration and expiration) 
displacement of the left and right kidney varied from 10 to 66 mm and 10 to 86 mm, 
respectively.  The maximal vertical motion of 39 mm for the superior pole and 43 mm for the 
inferior pole was reported in another MRI study (Schwartz et al., 1994). 
A recent study (Draney et al., 2005) evaluated not only the kidney movement but also the 
displacement and bending of the renal arteries during respiration using enhanced Magnetic 
Resonance Angiography (MRA) in healthy male volunteers.  The left and right kidneys were 
displaced 10.1 mm and 13.2 mm, respectively.  It was found that the renal ostia were 
relatively fixed with the displacement of 10-fold less than that of the kidneys.  The 
differential in displacement between the renal ostia and the kidneys resulted in statistically 
significant changes in renal branch angle. The branches exhibited a greater branch angle at 
inspiration and were more perpendicular at expiration. 
In the current medical device industry, most of the coronary and endovascular stents are 
assessed using accelerated in-vitro fatigue testing and Finite Element Analysis (FEA) to 
ascertain whether the device will survive a fatigue life of ten years under simulated 
physiological loading conditions. To design against such fatigue failures, the majority of 
prior research on stent fatigue was focused on determining the stress/strain-life (S-N) 
properties of wires and stents (Harrison & Lin, 2000; Pelton et al., 2003; Wagner et al., 2004).   
Marrey et al. developed a new damage–tolerant analysis for quantitatively predicting the 
fatigue life of a balloon-expandable stent (Marrey et al., 2006).  Their approach was to base 
the primary fatigue-life assessment on a traditional, yet conservative version of an S-N 
analysis, and to further use fracture mechanics in order to evaluate the role of pre-existing 
flaws.  Similar work was extended to the nickel-titanium stents for endovascular 
applications (Robertson & Ritchie, 2007). 
Hsiao et al. presented the first evaluation of the impact of the kidney motion on the renal stent 
fatigue performance (Hsiao et al., 2007 & 2009). It was concluded that the fatigue performance 
of the studied balloon-expandable stent is excellent under cardiac pulsatile fatigue alone, but 
compromised to certain degrees when respiration-induced renal artery bending fatigue was 
also considered.  The change in bending angle was more significant for the overlapped stent 
configuration, resulting in lower fatigue performance when compared to the implant of only 
one single stent. The following strategy was employed during the study: 
 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
451 
1. Fluoroscopic images of the stented renal arteries were taken from cadavers at simulated 
inspiration/expiration positions.  Respiratory motion was simulated by manual 
manipulation of the kidneys to reflect their craniocaudal movement observed clinically. 
2. Stent bending during simulated respiration was measured from fluoroscopic images 
and used as input parameters for the subsequent finite element model. 
3. Finite element analysis was performed to assess the balloon-expandable stent bending 
fatigue performance during respiration. 
2. Cadaveric model study 
A newly developed L-605 cobalt-chromium balloon-expandable stent was used in this study 
(Fig. 4).  The use of the cobalt-chromium material enables reduction of the stent‘s wall 
thickness relative to traditional stainless steel to improve the stent‘s hemodynamic 
properties while retaining adequate visibility under fluoroscopy.  Figure 5 shows the 
radiopacity comparison between this new cobalt-chromium stent and its stainless-steel 
counterpart.  It appears that the cobalt-chromium stent has higher radiopacity than the 
stainless-steel stent.  The stent was designed to form a series of nested rings interconnected 
with small bridging connectors.  The design parameters such as crown (or apex) radius and 
strut dimension were tailored to optimize the stent performance.  The unique stent design 
provides excellent flexibility and low profile to allow physicians’ easy device delivery.  The 
stent family covers the nominal stent inner diameters from 4 to 7 mm.  In clinical use, the 
stent may be post-expanded to 1 mm greater than the nominal diameter if necessary.  The 
stents were processed by laser cutting the intended design pattern onto the surface of the 
hypotube, the starting tube for the manufacture of intravascular stents and other biomedical 
devices.  The as-cut stent surfaces were then electrochemically polished to achieve a good 
surface finish (Fig. 6). 
 
 
Fig. 4. Newly designed cobalt-chromium balloon-expandable stent used in this study 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
453 
 
Fig. 6. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) image of the studied cobalt-chromium stent 
showing a good surface finish after electrochemical polishing 
kidneys were in the neutral position.  The displacements of +20 mm cranial (towards head 
for expiration simulation) and -20 mm caudal (towards legs for inspiration simulation) from 
the kidney were measured with a ruler to establish the upper and lower bounds of the 
kidney movement.  The manual simulation of the kidney movement was attempted in such 
a way that the kidney movement plane was considered close to perpendicular to the plane 
of view.  Therefore, it is believed that the measurements were able to capture the true 
bending angle changes.  The guide wire tip position, C-Arm (X-ray mobile diagnostic 
machine) floor position, and cadaver position remained unchanged throughout each cycle of 
one simulated inspiration and expiration movement to ensure consistency of the reference 
points.  Fluoroscopic images were collected for later analysis. 
After implanting the first stent, a second stent was deployed into the renal arteries of two 
cadavers such that the proximal portion of the second stent overlapped the distal portion of 
the first stent by approximately 3-4 mm.  This was to simulate a potentially worst case 
clinical scenario.  Respiration motion was again simulated by manual manipulation of the 
kidneys and fluoroscopic images were collected.  Figure 8 shows the explanted and opened 
aortic segment with two overlapped stents implanted in the renal artery. 
3. Finite element analysis 
Stents placed in the vasculature are subjected to various modes of cyclic loading that may 
consequently compromise the structural integrity of the stents during their functional life 
resulting in fatigue failure.  In this study, Finite Element Analysis (FEA) was performed to 
evaluate the stent structural integrity and fatigue performance.  Simulation was performed 
to ensure whether the stent will survive 4 x 108 cycles under simulated physiological 
environment with a combination of cardiac pulsatile fatigue loading and respiratory 
bending fatigue loading.  Ten years of fatigue life, accepted as a standard for stents today, is 
equivalent to 4 x 108 cardiac systolic/diastolic cycles and approximately 0.5 x 108 - 1 x 108 
respiratory cycles (assuming human breath rate is 10-20 times per minute).  Therefore, the 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
455 
 
Fig. 8. Partially exposed explanted aortic segment with the left renal artery demonstrating 
position of the implanted overlapped stents 
 fatigue cycling with a mean stress not equal to zero.  It should be noted that mean stress 
could also be a result of the plastic deformations of crimping and deployment.  The 
Goodman relation states that fatigue failure will occur if the stress state in the component 
satisfies the relation: 
 1a m
e u
σ σ
σ σ
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞+ ≥⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
 (1) 
where σa is the stress amplitude applied to the component, σe is the modified material 
endurance limit for non-zero mean stress, σm is the mean stress applied to the component, 
and σu is the material ultimate stress.  The Goodman fatigue analysis was performed using 
the following effective mean stress and effective stress amplitude equations: 
 2 2 21 2 2 3 3 1
1 ( ) ( ) ( )
2m m m m m m m
σ σ σ σ σ σ σ= − + − + −  (2) 
 2 2 21 2 2 3 3 1
1 ( ) ( ) ( )
2a a a a a a a
σ σ σ σ σ σ σ= − + − + −  (3) 
where σm is the effective mean stress, σa is the effective stress amplitude, σ1m, σ2m, σ3m are the 
principal mean stresses, and σ1a, σ2a, σ3a are the principal stress amplitudes experienced.  
The principal stresses σ1, σ2, σ3 were first extracted at each integration point for the 
combined pulsatile and bending loading conditions.  These principal stresses were used to 
calculate the principal mean stresses and stress amplitudes.  Once the principal mean 
stresses and stress amplitudes were determined, the effective mean stress and stress 
amplitude were then calculated at each integration point using the above equations. 
The Fatigue Safety Factor (FSF) is defined as the ratio of the stress amplitude against the 
modified endurance limit, where the stress amplitude is the stress difference and the mean 
stress is the average stress on the element stresses.  It quantifies the proximity of the mean 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
457 
interesting to note that, for the single stent configuration, the stented portion of the renal 
arteries was relatively straight (indicating minor bending), thus pushing the vessel bending 
distally towards the kidney during expiration.  However, for the overlapped stent 
configuration, the overlapped stents took the bending curvature of the renal arteries 
smoothly but they were apparently subjected to greater degree of bending. 
 
 
Fig. 9. A 6x3 mesh stent finite element model for combined cardiac pulsatile fatigue and 
respiratory bending fatigue 
Kidney motion during respiration results in bending of the renal arteries, thereby deforming 
the longitudinal axis of the stent into a curved line.  Figure 12a illustrates the deflection 
curve of a stent subjected to bending.  A line tangent to the deflection curve at the stent end 
forms angle θ to the x-axis which represents the bending angle of the stent.  When drawing 
tangent lines to the deflection curve from both ends, based on analytic geometry, the acute 
intersection angle of these two tangents is 2θ which is twice the defined bending angle.  
When the bending curvature is non-uniform along the stent length, the bending angle is 
defined as θ for one end and φ for the other end.  As a result, the intersection angle of the 
two tangents is θ + φ instead of 2θ.  Procedures to determine the bending angle at the stent 
ends were: 
1. Imported fluoroscopic images to AutoCAD software (AutoCAD LT 2000i). 
2. Ignored rigid body motion (both translation and rotation). 
3. Drew tangential lines to the deflection curve at the stent ends. 
4. Measured the acute intersection angle θ + φ of the two tangents. 
5. Divided θ + φ by 2.  This is the average bending angle at the end points of the stent.  The 
average bending angle can be related to the average curvature κ or average radius of 
curvature κ with the following definition: 
κ= 1/ρ = 2 (average bending angle) / L = (θ + φ) / L,  
where L is the combined stent length. 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
459 
 
Fig. 12. (a) Deformations of a stent in bending (top), (b) Measured acute intersection angle at 
expiration (bottom) 
 
Inspiration Expiration 
 Bending Angle Curvature Bending Angle Curvature 
Single Stent 3.90o 0.008 mm-1 2.20o 0.004 mm-1 
Overlapped Stent 2.75o 0.003 mm-1 11.75o 0.013 mm-1 
Table 1. Average bending angles and curvatures for the single and overlapped stent cases 
4.2 Stent fatigue life 
Stents deployed in the single and overlapped configurations were studied.  The single stent 
configuration has been widely used in renal applications, whereas the overlapped stent 
configuration is to simulate a potential clinical situation where a physician has to deploy 
two stents overlapping at the ends.  An 18 mm long stent, the standard implant size for 
renal stenting, was used in this study.  For the overlapped stent configuration, two 18-mm 
long stents were overlapped at the stent ends by 3-4 mm, making the total stented renal 
artery length of approximately 32-33 mm.  Although uncommon in renal stenting, this is a 
common clinical practice in other applications such as in the coronary artery stenting. 
Based on the fluoroscopic images of the stented arteries during simulated motion, the single 
stent and the overlapped stents implanted in the renal arteries behave in a different way 
during the kidney motion.  For the single stent configuration, the stented portion of the 
renal arteries was relatively short and straight, pushing most of the vessel tortuosity distally 
towards the kidney (Fig. 10).  As a result, the stent was only subjected to minor bending and 
affected less by kidney motion.  However, for the overlapped stent configuration, the longer 
overlapped stents were forced to conform to the bending curvature of the renal arteries and 
apparently subjected to a greater degree of bending than the single stent (Fig. 11). 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
461 
 
Fig. 14. (a, b) (a) Contour plots of von Mises stress for the studied balloon-expandable stent 
at expansion, (b) in-vitro stent expansion inside a tube 
 
 
Fig. 15. (a, b) Contour plots of von Mises stress for the studied balloon-expandable stent 
under respiration-induced bending coupled with cardiac pulsatile pressure loading for the 
overlapped stent case, (a) expiration, (b) inspiration 
It should be noted that the simulated distance between inspiration and expiration (about 40 
mm) used in this study represents greater degrees of bending than the actual bending 
normally seen in the clinical overlapped stent case.  The reason for this is that when two 
stents are overlapped, the entire renal artery becomes stiff enough such that, under similar 
respiratory forces, the kidney movement may be constrained and thus the movement is not 
as pronounced as 40 mm observed in other studies during normal breathing with no stents 
implanted.  Therefore, it is hypothesized that the overlapped stent results presented in this 
paper were considered as the worst case scenario that may be more conservative than the 
actual. 
The stent design also plays a critical role in the stent bending fatigue life.  The stent design 
parameters such as strut width and thickness, crown radius, ring height, and connector 
number and geometry all have significant impact on the overall stent behavior.  When the 
stent design is less flexible (in contrast to the studied balloon-expandable stent which is very 
flexible), it tends to straighten out the vessels considerably and pushes the vessel tortuosity 
distally.  This could create kink points at the stent/vessel junctions, which could disturb the   
 
Life Assessment of a Balloon-Expandable Stent for Atherosclerotic Renal Artery Stenosis 
 
463 
overlapped stent configuration, the overlapped stents took the bending curvature of the 
renal arteries smoothly but they were apparently subjected to greater degree of bending.  
Measured bending angles and curvatures applied to Finite Element Analysis indicated the 
stent fatigue resistance became lower and thus the stent life became shorter when the degree 
of stent bending increased. 
This study concluded that the fatigue performance of the studied balloon-expandable stent 
is excellent under cardiac pulsatile fatigue alone, but compromised to certain degrees when 
respiration-induced renal artery bending fatigue was also considered. The change in 
bending angle was more significant for the overlapped stent configuration, resulting in 
lower fatigue life when compared to the implant of one single stent.  Results showed that 
the studied ballon-expandable stent is not at risk for bending fatigue failure during 
respiratory motion for both single and overlapped stent configurations.  It is strongly 
recommended that, in addition to the standard cardiac pulsatile fatigue analysis, similar 
bending fatigue life analysis should be performed on other vascular bed applications such 
as coronary arteries, carotid arteries, peripheral arteries, etc., in order to ensure the safety 
and efficacy of the new designed stents. 
6. Acknowledgement 
This work is supported by National Science Council of Taiwan (NSC 98-2218-E-002-043 and 
NSC 99-2218-E-002-018) and Abbott Laboratories (Abbott Vascular division). The authors 
gratefully acknowledge their continued support of the program. 
7. References 
Bessias, N.; Sfyroeras, G. & Moulakakis, K.G. (2005). Renal Artery Thrombosis Caused by 
Stent Fracture in a Single Kidney Patient. Journal of Endovascular Therapy, Vol. 12, 
No. 4, pp. 516-520. 
Bjork, V.O.; Lindblom, D. & Henze, A. (1985). The Monostrut Strength. Scand J Thor 
Cardiovasc Surg, Vol. 19, pp. 13-19. 
Blum, U.; Krumme, B.; Flugel, P.; Gabelmann, A.; Lehnert, T.; Buitrago-Tellez, C.; 
Schollmeyer, P. & Langer, M. (1997). Treatment of Ostial Renal-Artery Stenoses 
with Vascular Endoprostheses after Unsuccessful Balloon Angioplasty. New 
England Journal of Medicine, Vol. 336, pp. 459-465. 
Draney, M.; Zarins, C.K. & Taylor, C.A. (2005). Three-Dimensional Analysis of Renal Artery 
Bending Motion During Respiration. Journal of Endovascular Therapy, Vol. 12, pp. 
380-386. 
Garrett, H.E. Jr. (2001). A Human Cadaveric Circulation Model. J Vasc Surg, Vol. 33, pp. 
1128-1130. 
Harrison, W.J. & Lin, Z.C. (2000). The Study of Nitinol Bending Fatigue, Proceedings of the 
International Conference on Shape Memory and Superelastic Technologies, Pacific Grove, 
CA, April 2000, pp. 391-396. 
Hsiao, H.M.; Prabhu, S.; Nikanorov, A. & Razavi, M. (2007). Renal Artery Stent Bending 
Fatigue Analysis. ASME J Medical Devices, Vol. 1, No. 2, pp. 113-118. 
Hsiao, H.M.; Nikanorov, A.; Prabhu, S. & Razavi, M. (2009). Respiration-induced Kidney 
Motion on Cobalt-Chromium Stent Fatigue Resistance. J Biomed Mater Res Part B: 
Appl Biomater, Vol. 91B, No. 2, pp. 508-516. 
  
Procedia 
Engineering  
          Procedia Engineering  00 (2011) 000–000 
www.elsevier.com/locate/procedia 
 
IUMRS-ICA 2011 
Hemodynamic Simulation of Intra-stent Blood Flow 
Hao-Ming Hsiaoa
aDepartment of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
*, Kuang-Huei Leea, Ying-Chih Liaob, Yu-Chen Chengc 
bDepartment of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
cSchool of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
The stent has been a major breakthrough for the treatment of atherosclerotic vascular disease.  The permanent 
vascular implant of a stent, however, changes the blood flow hemodynamics and may consequently affect the 
restenosis process.  Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) has been widely used to analyze the hemodynamic 
behavior and wall shear stress (WSS) distribution in stented arteries.  The objective of this study is to present a 
thorough comparison among various CFD models to investigate the effects of rheological properties and pulsatile 
flow on hemodynamic simulation of the intra-stent blood flow.  Several CFD models were developed with various 
modeling setups – axisymmetric parallel ring vs. 3-D stented artery model, Newtonian vs. non-Newtonian flow, and 
steady-state vs. pulsatile flow.  Simulated results show that the minimum WSS occurs at the recirculation zones 
located at the downstream or backside of each stent struts.  The rheological effect on WWS is minor in the 
axisymmetric parallel ring model; however, it becomes slightly significant in the 3-D stented artery model, with 
Newtonian flow being a more conservative assumption.  For given pulsatile waveforms, the steady-state and pulsatile 
flow resulted in fairly similar trends in the WSS distribution.  Therefore, it is reasonable to simulate the intra-stent 
blood flow as a steady-state Newtonian flow, which could be beneficial in more complex simulations and drastically 
reduce the computational time.  These findings will provide great insights for future stent design optimization to 
reduce restenosis. 
 
© 2011 Published by Elsevier Ltd. Selection and/or peer-review under responsibility of IUMRS-ICA 
2011 
 
Keywords: Restenosis; Wall Shear Stress; Hemodynamics; Coronary Artery 
1. Introduction 
Coronary stenting has become as the primary treatment of cardiovascular diseases and has received 
great attention from the medical community since its first introduction in 1990s.  It is a minimally-
 
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +886-2-3366-9429; fax: +886-2-2363-1755. 
E-mail address: hmhsiao@ntu.edu.tw 
 Hao-Ming Hsiao et al. / Procedia Engineering 00 (2011) 000–000  
 
Fig. 1. Schematics of axisymmetric parallel ring model 
 
Fig. 2. An actual stent used in 3-D simulation 
For 2-D simulation, equations were solved by commercial software COMSOL Multi-physics, while 
another commercial CFD solver, ANSYS FLUENT, was used for 3-D simulation.  The typical numbers 
of nodes in this study were around 9,000 in the axisymmetric model and about 4,700,000 in the 3-D 
model. 
Blood typically behaves like a Newtonian fluid when the shear rate is greater than 100 s-1 [13].  
However, due to the flow disturbance, the true shear rates in the stented area could be much lower than 
100 s-1.  To understand this non-Newtonian effect, we present a thorough comparison by simulation of 
Newtonian flow and non-Newtonian flow.  For Newtonian simulations, the fluid has a constant viscosity 
of μ = 0.0035 kg/m-s, while for non-Newtonian simulations, viscosity is described by the Carreau model: 
 
𝜇 = 𝜇∞ + (𝜇0 − 𝜇∞)[1 + (𝜆?̇?)2]𝑛−12                                                                                                             (3) 
   
where μ∞ and μ0 are viscosities as the shear rate goes to infinity and zero, respectively, ?̇? is the shear rate, 
and λ and n are material constants.  These parameters can be inferred by fitting the Carreau model to the 
experimental data [12-13].  The values obtained from the literature were μ∞ = 0.0035 kg/m-s, μ0 = 0.25 
kg/m-s, λ = 25.00 s, and n = 0.25. The relationship between the shear rate and viscosity in this Carreau 
model is shown in Fig. 3. 
 Hao-Ming Hsiao et al. / Procedia Engineering 00 (2011) 000–000  
3. Results and Discussion 
Velocity field and the corresponding WSS distribution around the stent area in the axisymmetric model 
are shown in Figs. 4(a) and (b), respectively.  It is apparent that the minimum WSS occurs at the 
recirculation zones, which are at the downstream or backside of each stent strut. 
3.1. Effects of Rheological Properties 
Non-Newtonian simulations with the Carreau model were compared with those from Newtonian 
simulations. Results show that their WSS distributions are nearly the same (Fig. 5(a)).  The only 
difference is the recirculation length reduction in the recirculation zones, by about 3.85% for the case of 
non-Newtonian flow.  The distal recirculation length L, a good indicator of neointimal proliferation 
tendency, is defined as the total distance of negative WSS behind the last strut.  At the regions near the 
backside of each stent strut, the flow velocity and shear rate are fairly low, but a large disparity in 
viscosity exists between these two models.  Despite the viscosity disparity, as illustrated in Fig. 5(b), the 
wall shear stresses, the products of shear rate and viscosity, are almost identical in these two models in 
the recirculation zones between struts due to the low shear rate.  The viscosity and shear rate simulations 
are shown in Figs. 5(b) and (c), respectively.  In summary, the rheological effects on the wall shear stress 
are minor in the axisymmetric model. 
The effects of non-Newtonian flow become slightly significant but still negligible in the 3-D stented 
artery model.  The WSS contours of the Newtonian and non-Newtonian flow are shown in Figs. 6(a) and 
(b), respectively.  In order to quantify the effects, we measured the total wall surface area with shear 
stresses lower than 5 dyne/cm2, below which restenosis is likely to occur.  At the flow rate of 3.11 ml/s, 
the total wall surface area with shear stresses less than 5 dyne/cm2 is 3.83 mm2 for the Newtonian flow 
and 3.55 mm2 for the non-Newtonian flow.  This result represents a 7.19% reduction in area for the case 
of non-Newtonian flow.  This suggests that the rheological effects on the wall shear stress are still minor, 
even in the 3-D stented artery model. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. (a) Streamline plot of velocity field (Q = 3.11 ml/s, s/D = d/D = 0.1); (b) Corresponding WSS distribution on 
artery wall 
 Hao-Ming Hsiao et al. / Procedia Engineering 00 (2011) 000–000  
3.2. Pulsatile Flow vs. Steady-state Flow 
The flow rate in the arteries varies with pulsation.  Simulation of this time-dependent pulsatile flow 
certainly gives a more realistic solution, but also poses a greater challenge.  Therefore, in the interests of 
computational efficiency, it is interesting to compare the pulsatile and steady-state simulations.  The 
velocity profile changes in the right coronary artery (RCA) were obtained from C. Bertolotti et al. (Fig. 
7(a)), with the corresponding flow rates at different time instants shown in Fig. 7(b) [14-16].  The key 
characteristics of this flow are listed in Table 1.  To compare the pulsatile and steady-state results, several 
critical flow rates were chosen for the steady-state simulations (marked as the square dots in Fig. 7(b)). 
Figure 8 shows AWI variation in the pulsatile and steady-state simulations.  It is apparent that AWI 
variation basically follows the flow rate changes with only a slight phase difference.  In addition, both 
simulations yield fairly similar trends, with a slightly greater difference near the first peak.  Therefore, the 
steady-state simulation might be a viable alternative model for the pulsatile flow to save computational 
time with acceptable tolerance. 
 
 
(a)                                                                                             (b) 
Fig. 7. (a) Flow rate in coronary artery (one pulse); (b) Velocity profile at different time instants (one pulse) 
 
Table 1. Key features of inlet flow 
Feature Value  
Time period 0.83 s (72 Hz) 
Max. flow rate 2.20 ml/s 
Min. flow rate 0.31 ml/s 
Mean velocity 16.69 cm/s 
 
 Hao-Ming Hsiao et al. / Procedia Engineering 00 (2011) 000–000  
[9] Malek A.M., Alper S.L., Izumo S., JAMA 1999; 282(21): 2035-2042.  
[10] Benard N., Perrault R., Coisne D., Ann. Biomed. Eng. 2006; 34(8): 1259-1271.  
[11] Vahab Dehlaghia, Mohammad Tafazoli Shadpoora, Siamak Najarian, J. Mater. Process. Technol. 2008, 197(1-3), p. 174-181.  
[12] Seo, T., L.G. Schachter, A.I. Barakat, Ann. Biomed. Eng. 2005, 33(4), p. 444-456. 
[13] Chien, S., et al., J. Appl. Physiol. 1966, 21(1), p. 81-87.   
[14] Womersley, J.R., J. Physiol. (Lond.) 1955; 127(3): 553-563.  
[15] Hwang, K., http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/kyuhoh/ womersley/womersley.html. 
[16] Bertolotti, C., et al., J Biomech 2001; 34(8): 1049-1064.  
                                                         
微/奈米製造技術專輯 
  
 
 
66 │  │ 342期 │ 
前言 
心臟病〈Heart Disease〉為美國十大死亡病因
排名之首，在台灣同樣也高居第二位。心肌梗塞
〈Myocardial Infarction〉是心臟病猝發的重要原
因之一，由於血管壁上膽固醇與血脂長年堆積，
造成血管壁增厚並產生硬化斑塊〈Plaque〉，進而
使血管漸趨窄化，此現象即為動脈粥狀硬化
〈Atherosclerosis〉。當血管窄化程度超過正常管徑
過多時，冠狀動脈血液供給量不足，導致心肌細
胞缺氧而壞死，病患即產生心絞痛等症狀。此外，
藏匿於血管內壁的脂質〈Lipid〉所形成的易損斑
塊〈Vulnerable Plaque〉，可能因血壓升高而破裂，
導致血小板被活化而凝結於傷口附近形成血栓
〈Thrombosis〉，此為急性心肌梗塞的原因之一。
傳統的心血管疾病治療方式以藥物治療與外科手
術 為 主 ： 藥 物 治 療 是 藉 由 如 硝 化 甘 油
〈Nitroglycerin, NTG〉舌下含錠等藥物，來降低
心跳速度與擴張血管，使供給心臟血液量回復正
常。然而此方法只能暫時減緩心臟工作負擔與抒
解疼痛，並無法有效根治心血管疾病。服用血小
板抑制劑雖可減少血栓形成機率，有效降低心臟
病發的可能，但長期服用有可能導致其它出血性
疾病的副作用。外科手術即是所謂的開心手術
〈Open Heart Surgery〉或心臟繞道手術〈Bypass 
Surgery〉，然而外科手術侵入性極高，病患術後需
要長期休養才能康復，並不適用於高齡或身體狀
況不佳的病患。 
隨著醫療科技的日新月異，微創手術
〈Minimally Invasive Surgery〉的概念在目前被廣
泛應用於治療心血管疾病。自 1970年代起，氣球
擴張術〈Balloon Angioplasty〉開始被用於治療冠
狀動脈窄化：醫師自病患腹股溝或手臂處穿刺一
小孔，先置放導管鞘〈Sheath〉，再利用導管鞘導
引氣球導管〈Balloon Catheter〉至冠狀動脈狹窄
處，然後將氣球充水擴張，以擴大血管內徑增加
血液流量。然而，根據臨床資料顯示，約有一半
病患在接受氣球擴張手術幾個月內，會發生血管
再狹窄〈Restenosis〉現象，病患需要再次接受氣
球擴張手術或進行心臟繞道手術。由於氣球擴張
術發生血管再狹窄的機率偏高，進而衍生血管支
架〈Stent〉的概念。血管支架是在氣球擴張步驟
後，隨即置入一金屬材質支架，其徑向強度足以
支撐血管內徑而不受坍塌之虞。1994年血管支架
首度在美國獲批准上市，旋即造成一股風潮，被
大量應用於治療冠狀動脈硬化，並取代大部份傳
統的心臟繞道手術 [1]。施行血管支架植入術僅需
半小時至一小時，手術後復原時間很短，在數週
內血管內膜平滑肌細胞增生後〈Smooth Muscle 
Cell Proliferation〉，會將支架永久包覆於血管壁
內。血管支架的誕生，有效將血管再狹窄率由 50%
降至 20-30%，而 2003 年所推出的革命性整合型
醫療器材―塗藥血管支架〈Drug Eluting Stent〉，
更一舉將血管再狹窄率由 20-30%降至 10%以下 
[2-3]。血管支架治療冠狀動脈疾病的成功，也帶
動了這項科技在其它方面的運用：例如血管支架
被大量運用在週邊血管如頸動脈〈 Carotid 
Artery〉、腎動脈〈Renal Artery〉、髂動脈〈Iliac 
Artery〉、股淺動脈〈Superficial Femoral Artery〉
等；血管支架也被運用在身體內許多管狀的組織
結構如膽管〈Biliary Duct〉、氣管〈Trachea〉、輸
尿管〈Ureter〉等；近幾年來，結合導管與血管支
                                                         
微/奈米製造技術專輯 
  
 
 
68 │  │ 342期 │ 
彈性特質會使材料即便受到近 10%應變，在應力
卸載後仍可回復原形，其超彈性特質避免了因擠
壓而產生的變形問題，相當適合用於近體表的週
邊血管。自動擴張式血管支架的製造尺寸會略大
於血管直徑，製程中先將支架壓縮於導管內，待
抵達血管病灶處，即將導管抽回，血管支架隨即
被釋放出導管外，並試圖擴張回復至原先尺寸。
由於製造尺寸大於血管的緣故，會促成支架與血
管壁作緊密結合，產生作用於血管壁的推力以撐
開血管〈Chronic Outward Force〉。鎳鈦合金的機
械性質與相變化溫度可以藉由合金的成分作比例
改變，使得設計者在材料選用與支架設計 
 
表㆒  氣球擴張式與㉂動擴張式血管支架㈵性與比較 
氣球擴張式 ㉂動擴張式 
不銹鋼合㈮、鈷鉻合㈮、
鉭合㈮ 
鎳鈦合㈮ 
塑性變形 超彈性 
順應性較差 
徑向強度較強 
順應性較佳 
徑向強度較弱 
氣球擴張決定支架大小 製程決定於支架大小 
㊜用冠狀動脈、腎動脈 ㊜用週邊血管 
 
 
圖㆓  不銹鋼合㈮與鎳鈦合㈮應力應變示意圖 
上能有更多的選擇。圖二為不銹鋼合金與鎳鈦合
金的應力應變示意圖比較：不銹鋼合金有典型的
塑性材料應力應變曲線，其塑性變形是不可逆的
過程；相反地，鎳鈦合金則展現了有趣的應力應
變行為，在受力與應力卸載過程會形成所謂的遲
滯現象〈Hysteresis Loop〉，其變形是可逆過程，
這也是它擁有超彈性特質的關鍵 [6]。 
血液因收縮壓〈Systolic Pressure〉與舒張壓
〈Diastolic Pressure〉所形成的脈衝流〈Pulsatile 
Flow〉會造成血管管徑變化，此時自動擴張式血
管支架順應性〈Conformability〉佳的優點即展露
無遺。動物實驗顯示，自動擴張式血管支架在經
過 18周後，與血管壁仍保持良好的接觸；反觀氣
球擴張式血管支架因剛性較強，支架管徑與形狀
無法順應血管即時變化，長期可能導致斷裂或鬆
脫等問題。以人體腹部主動脈為例，它會隨著年
紀增長有逐年擴大的可能，因此自動擴張式血管
支架的這項特性，就被成功運用於主動脈血管瘤
的微創手術 [7]。然而，自動擴張式血管支架的缺
點在於支撐血管的徑向力強度〈Radial Force〉較
氣球擴張式血管支架弱，其強度差別有時可達兩
倍之多。此外，鎳鈦合金在 X 光下顯影效果
〈Radiopacity〉也較鈷鉻合金差，這也是自動擴
張式血管支架的另一缺點，圖三為不同血管支架
在動物體內的 X光顯影差異。除了良好的機械性
質外，由於支架必需長期置入人體，所以生物相
容性〈Biocompatibility〉是相當重要的考量。不
銹鋼與鎳鈦合金會在表面形成安定的氧化層，可
防止基質材料受腐蝕而釋放進入人體。經實驗發
現，鎳鈦合金釋放人體的量小於中毒的濃度，對
周圍增生細胞沒有太大的影響 [8]。 
                                                         
微/奈米製造技術專輯 
  
 
 
70 │  │ 342期 │ 
 
圖㈤  新㆒㈹塗藥血管支架的生物可吸收藥物塗層 
 
 
圖㈥  支架表面加工鑽孔以作為藥物儲存槽 
 
生。高分子聚合物具備良好的附著力、藥物載量、
和藥物投遞性，可以穩定與均勻的投藥，適合做
為支架表面塗層材料。然而，高分子聚合物殘留
在人體內有導致長期發炎的可能，並有晚期血栓
〈Late Stent Thrombosis〉的風險，所以未來新一
代塗藥血管支架的塗層，多改成以生物可吸收材
料為主，在完成藥物投遞的階段性任務後，隨即
被人體完全分解吸收，只留下金屬血管支架在體
內，將副作用的可能性降至最低〈圖五〉。 
另一種藥物釋放方法，在血管支架表面加工
鑽孔或挖槽，將藥物儲存於孔洞內，如此可加大
支架的藥物負載量，有效降低塗層厚度，進而達
成縮小導管尺寸的目的〈圖六〉。此方法的另一優
點，可在孔洞內放置不同的藥物與劑量，並選擇
不同的時間點釋放；例如可在支架外層近血管壁
孔洞儲存抑制細胞增生藥物，支架內層近血流處
孔洞儲存抗凝血藥物，以達到多種療效的功能。 
儘管塗藥血管支架在減少血管再狹窄率取得
革命性的成功，但也產生了較高的晚期血栓風險 
[19-21]。當支架未被平滑肌細胞完全包覆前，血
小板〈Platelet〉可能視支架為外來物，因而聚集
凝結而形成血栓〈圖七〉。研究結果顯示，藥物釋
放雖然有效降低血管再狹窄的可能，但也相對延
緩細胞包覆血管支架的過程，間接增加晚期血栓
的風險。所以目前病人需在手術後長期服用抗凝
血藥物〈Anticoagulant〉如保栓通錠〈Plavix〉至
少一年，以降低晚期血栓的可能性。儘管第二代
塗藥血管支架如亞培藥廠〈Abbott Laboratories〉
的 Xience V已成功有效降低晚期血栓的風險，然
而這個問題也促成新一代血管支架的思維，也就
是生物可吸收式血管支架的誕生〈Bioabsorable 
Stent〉。 
新一代血管支架的概念，即是讓血管支架在
人體內完成階段性任務後，隨即被人體完全分解
吸收消失不見，而不再永久留在人體內。它最明
顯的優點之一，即是解決了上述塗藥血管支架所
引起的晚期血栓問題，其它優點還包括：在同一 
                                                         
微/奈米製造技術專輯 
  
 
 
72 │  │ 342期 │ 
疲 勞 壽 命 〈 Fatigue Life 〉、 傳 送 易 曲 度
〈Deliverability〉、血管順應性〈Conformability〉、
顯影效果〈Radiopacity〉、導管鬆脫率〈Stent 
Retention〉。血管支架壓縮直徑愈小愈好，以期能
順利通過狹窄的血管阻塞處；需擁有足夠徑向力
強度，以期能順利支撐血管；疲勞壽命愈長愈好，
以期能在人體多年使用而不受斷裂之虞；需擁有
良好的傳送易曲度，以期能順利通過多重血管曲
折而抵達病灶；需擁有良好的血管順應性，以期
能與彎曲血管有較佳的契合度；需在 X光下有較
好的顯影效果，使醫師在手術過程中能清楚看見
支架；需能與氣球導管緊密結合，在人體傳送過
程中不致從氣球導管上鬆脫。 
設計血管支架需先將支架輪廓以繪圖軟體如
SolidWorks、Pro/E、AutoCAD繪成 2D平面草圖，
再利用繪圖軟體、CAD/CAM、或有限元素軟體將
2D平面草圖捲成 3D立體模型，以建立支架立體
座標，供日後的雷射加工或電腦分析之用。傳統
的血管支架研發，從設計繪圖、雛型製造、到性
質測試，每一次的設計迭代〈Design Iteration〉均
曠日廢時，可能長達數天或數週之久。如果能利
用所謂參數化設計〈Parametric Design〉，並結合
電腦分析如有限元素法〈Finite Element Analysis〉
與 計 算 流 體 力 學 〈 Computational Fluid 
Dynamics〉，可將整個設計迭代流程大量縮短為數
小時或數天，並對許多不良設計作預先篩選。 
引入參數化設計概念與電腦模擬分析，可將
同款支架作快速局部微調，進而在最短時間內找
出最佳設計參數，並藉由電腦模型預測支架的實
際機械特性，能有效降低成本與提升效率。利用
繪圖軟體的參數化設計功能，可將影響支架機械 
 
圖㈧  血管支架參數化設計 
 
行為之局部幾何形狀如長、寬、高、弧、圓角半
徑等設為參數，建立參數間數學關係式與變數範
圍限制，設計者藉由調整設定變數即可修改模
型，不需因為局部設計變動而重新繪圖〈圖八〉，
所以一張血管支架草圖的繪製可由數小時縮減為
短短幾秒鐘。電腦模擬分析包含有限元素法 
[24-27] 和計算流體力學 [28-29]，前者可藉電腦
模型預測血管支架各種臨床表現行為，包括應力
應變、疲勞壽命、徑向力強度、血管順應性、回
彈率〈Recoil〉等臨床重要性質；後者可透過計算
流 體 力 學 ， 提 供 血 流 動 力 學 分 析
〈Hemodynamics〉，藉此找出適當的血管支架設
計，以減少血管再狹窄率可能。圖九為模擬氣球
擴張式血管支架被壓縮於氣球導管上的應力應變
圖，圖十為模擬自動擴張式血管支架自導管內釋
放至錐形血管中的應力應變圖，從此類電腦模擬
可清楚了解血管支架在各個階段不同部位的受力
狀態。 
                                                         
微/奈米製造技術專輯 
  
 
 
74 │  │ 342期 │ 
研院擁有多部此類型高階雷射切削設備，應可在
未來血管支架與高階醫療器材製造上，扮演重要
的關鍵角色。 
 
結論 
本文介紹血管支架的現況與未來可能發展，
同時對血管支架的設計概念作一說明。成功製造
一個血管支架所需的關鍵技術，舉凡支架設計、
電腦分析、雷射切削、藥物噴塗、性質測試、消
毒封裝，無一不與機械工業習習相關，因此台灣
如欲發展植入式高階醫療器材，血管支架產業會
是一個極佳的切入點。 
目前全球冠狀動脈與週邊血管支架的市場規
模約為每年一百億美金左右，且隨著老化人口的
逐年增加，預估市場將持續成長。如今，血管支
架科技即將邁入第三代―生物可吸收式血管支
架，根據經驗，每一次產品的蛻變創新，都會促
成全球血管支架市場的重新洗牌與新公司的崛
起。期待台灣能把握這次難得的重要契機，發展
屬於台灣獨特的利基市場，以期進入植入式高階
醫療器材市場。 
 
致謝 
本文作者感謝國科會計畫 NSC 99-2218 
-E-002-018 與美國亞培藥廠的支持，謹此致謝。
作者蕭浩明副教授曾任美國亞培藥廠心血管部門
首席工程師，並參予多項亞培血管支架計畫的研
發。 
參考文獻 
[1] D. L. Fischman, M. B. Leon, D. S. Baim, et al., “A 
Randomized Comparison of Coronary Stent Placement and 
Balloon Angioplasty in the Treatment of Coronary Artery 
Disease,” New England Journal of Medicine, Vol. 331, pp. 
496-501, 1994. 
[2] J. E. Sousa, P. W. Serruys, and M. A. Costa, “New 
Frontiers in Cardiology: Drug-Eluting Stents: Part I,” 
Circulation, Vol. 107, pp. 2274-2279, 2003. 
[3] J. B. Hermiller, A. Raizner, L. Cannon, el al., “Outcomes 
with the Polymer-based Paclitaxel-eluting TAXUS Stent in 
Patients with Diabetes Mellitus: the TAXUS-IV Trial,” 
Journal of American College of Cardiology, Vol. 45, No. 8, 
pp. 1172-1179, 2005. 
[4] P. W. Serruys, J. A. Ormiston, et al., “A Bioabsorbable 
Everolimus-eluting Coronary Stent System (ABSORB) - 
2-year Outcomes and Results from Multiple Imaging 
Methods,” Lancet, Vol. 373, pp. 897-910, 2009. 
[5] T. W. Duerig and M. Wholey, “A Comparison of Balloon- 
and Self-expanding Stents,” Minimally Invasive Therapy & 
Allied Technologies, Vol. 11, No. 4, pp. 173-178, 2002. 
[6] Z. Lin, H. M. Hsiao, D. Mackiewicz, B. Anukhin, and K. 
Pike, “Anisotropic Behavior of Radiopaque NiTiPt 
Hypotube for Biomedical Applications,” Advanced 
Engineering Materials, Vol. 11, No. 11, pp. B189-B193, 
2009. 
[7] P. Mangell, M. Malina1, K. Vogt, et al., “Are 
Self-expanding Stents Superior to Balloon-expanded in 
Dilating Aortas? An Experimental Study in Pigs,” 
European Journal of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, 
Vol. 12, No. 3, pp. 287-294, 1996. 
[8] R. D. Barrett, S. E. Bishara, and J. K. Quinn, 
“Biodegradation of Orthodontic Appliances: Part I, 
Biodegradation of Nickel and Chromium in Vitro,” 
American Journal of Orthodontics and Dentofacial 
Orthopedics, Vol. 103, No. 2, pp. 8-14, 1993. 
[9] J. S. Yadav, M. H. Wholey, R. E. Kuntz, et al., “Protected 
Carotid-Artery Stenting versus Endarterectomy in 
High-Risk Patients,” New England Journal of Medicine, 
Vol. 351, pp. 1493-1501, 2004. 
[10] M. Prinssen, E. L. G. Verhoeven, J. Buth, et al., “A 
Randomized Trial Comparing Conventional and 
Endovascular Repair of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms,” 
- 1 - 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
日期：99年 8月 31日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
8 月 7 日由桃園國際機場出發，途經泰國曼谷，飛往倫敦。8 月 8 日由
倫敦搭飛機抵達愛丁堡。次日參加國際研討會，並發表一篇論文，8月 12
日結束國際研討會，飛至倫敦，由倫敦經曼谷返抵台灣。 
本次國際研討會是結合 The 19th International Symposium on the 
Applications of Ferroelectrics & The 10th European Conference on the 
Applications of Polar Dielectrics 兩項研討會於英國愛丁堡研討會中心舉
行，大會主席由英國 University Leader, Prof. Andrew Bell 擔任，大會組織
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2218 － E － 002 － 043 － 
計畫名稱 血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究 
出國人員
姓名 
張所鋐 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學 
會議時間 
 99年 8月 7日至 
 99年 8月 12日 會議地點 英國愛丁堡 
會議名稱 
(中文) 第十九屆國際鐵電材料應用會議暨第十屆歐洲極性介
質應用會議 
(英文) The 19th International Symposium on the Applications of 
Ferroelectrics & the 10th European Conference on the 
Applications of Polar Dielectrics 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 利用壓電驅動牙科刀具所產生的震動分析 
(英文) Oscillations of Piezoelectricity Powered Dental Tools 
- 3 - 
 
攜回研討會論文合集一冊，本次大會涵蓋的學術主題包括有： 
 Piezoelectricity, Materials, Lead-free Piezoelectrics, Devices 
 Pyroelectric Materials and Devices 
 Memory, MEMS and other Integrated Devices 
 Energy Conversion Applications 
 Electrocaloric 
 Ferroelectric Photovoltaic 
 Thermoelectric Effects 
 Optical Phenomena 
 Signal Processing 
 Storage Devices 
 Periodic Poling 
 Photonic Band-gaps 
 Novel Advances in Ferroelectrics 
 Characterization Techniques 
 Theory and Modelling 
 Domains 
 Phase Transitions 
 Critical Phenomena 
 Bulk Materials 
 Single Crystals 
 Ceramics and Thick Films 
 Polymers, Liquid Crystals and Composites 
 Thin Films 
 Nanostructure and Size Effects 
 Conduction Phenomena and Point Defects 
 Experiment, Modeling and Theory 
 Domain Engineering 
 Relaxor Dielectrics 
 Multiferroics 
 Dielectrics 
 Capacitors 
 Ultra High K Materials 
 Energy Storage 
 RF and THz Applications 
- 5 - 
 
Prof. Kevin Chou，威斯康辛大學的 Prof. Xiaochun Li，以及密西根大學的
Prof. Jack Hu等。 
6月 15日下午於本次大會會場發表實驗室之成果，Z. K. Kao, Y. H. Hung, 
H. M. Hsiao, and Y. C. Liao, “Highly Conductive Silver Lines with Inkjet 
Printing Chemistry”，在場與會人士對噴墨技術均感到十分興趣，並進一步
研討有關合作事宜(Purdue IE department and UIUC Mechanical Science)。 
6月 17日到 HP Corvallis Site訪問。由於負責接待的 Dr. Chien-Hwa Chen
為本人過去的同事，且本人對其實驗室的研究內容及設備儀器非常熟悉，
因此本次拜訪除了參觀之外，並實際討論將來合作的可能性及儀器設備的
借用等，同時也邀請 Dr. Chen 到台灣參訪。 
6月 18日返程回到台灣。 
 
二、與會心得與建議 
本次出國的目的有四項： 
1. 與各國學者及業界代表交換意見。 
2. 學習其它各國關於精密製造領域的學者所做的研究並提出問題。 
3. 與過去 HP Corvallis Site的同事(Dr. Chien-Hwa Chen)見面，並討論
未來與美國業界的合作交流。 
4. 與 Oregon State University 大學 Prof. Chih-Hung Chang 教授見面
並討論台灣與美國兩個實驗室的合作交流。 
- 7 - 
 
 
 
 
論文海報 
- 9 - 
 
製程之成果簡報 Z. K. Kao, Y. C. Liao, Y. H. Hung, and H. M. Hsiao, “Highly 
Conductive Silver Lines via Dual Channel Inkjet-Printing Method,，在場與會
人士對於雙噴頭之噴墨技術感到十分有興趣，並進一步研討有關合作事宜
(Prof. Yongtaek Hong, Seoul National University, Korea)。 
6月 28日於會場與材料系蔡豐羽老師相遇，並拜會了幾位南洋理工大學
有關製造的學者專家，如李長明教授等。下午瀏覽會場之海報展示， 
6月 29日到南洋理工大學訪問蘇培珍與曾少華教授，兩位教授皆為台大
機械系之系友。本次拜訪除了參觀燃料電池實驗室之外，並討論以氧化物
奈米粒子製造電池電極的合作的發展性及經費規劃等。 
7 月 1日下午於會場聽取各國專家製造感測器之各式製程。之後解說本
實驗室有關 biosensor之成果簡報 J. Y. Hu, Y. P. Lin, Y. W. Lu, H. M. Hsiao, 
and Y. C. Liao, “Inkjet-Printed Micro Analytical Devices”，在場與會人士對以
噴墨技術製造感測器感到十分有興趣。 
7月 2日返程回到台灣。 
 
二、與會心得與建議 
本次出國的目的有三項。 
1. 與各國學者及業界代表交換意見。 
2. 學習其它各國關於可撓式電子器材(flexible electronics)的學者所
做的研究並提出問題。 
- 11 - 
 
 
 
論文邀請函 
- 13 - 
 
與檢測儀器(Nanodevices and Diagnostic)、納米醫藥於標靶治療的運用
(Nanomedicine Targeting Major Diseases)、再生納米醫藥 (Regenerative 
Nanomedicine)等五大類，幾乎涵蓋了目前最熱門的生醫領域相關議題。 
本人受大會邀請所發表的論文為“ Computational Simulations of Key 
Clinical Attributes for Intravascular Stents”，內容報告為利用電腦模擬如有限
元素法與計算流體力學，以預測心腦血管支架關鍵臨床性質。此一方法對
於高階醫療器材的發展至為重要，藉由電腦設計與分析整合，可大量減少
從產品設計到上市的時間，在場與會人士對於此項技術均感到十分有興趣。 
 
二、與會心得 
感謝國科會贊助，使我有這個機會參加此項國際會議，對本人而言收穫
相當多，吸取許多寶貴經驗，並聽取各國專家對成果之意見，有助於日後
本人研究的發展。此次國際會議所選擇的大會會場是位於深圳會展中心，
同時有許多家國際與當地廠商參展，以及其他大型會議與展覽同步進行，
是一個非常獨特的經驗，有別於一般的國際會議。主辦單位 BIT World 
Congress 為一專門主辦國際會議與大型展覽的企業集團，此亦有別於一般
主辦單位多為學術機構。該公司展現了很強的企圖心，不但邀請了諾貝爾
級得主演講，同時更廣為宣傳未來一年該公司即將主辦的大型國際會議，
包括癌症(在北京)、再生醫學(在北京)、蛋白質基因體(在北京)、腦神經(在
北京)、藥物傳送(在深圳)，幾乎囊括了現今生醫領域最重要的議題。 
- 15 - 
 
 
發表之論文 
- 2 - 
 
二、研究成果 
      The Bio-inspired Sensing and Bio-inspired Actuating Summer Institute is interesting and 
educational.  The focus of the Summer Institute is to apply engineering principles onto 
biological applications.  Several important topics are listed as follows: 
• Professor James Lee (Ohio State University): micro mixer using centrifugal force and 
small nozzles that can puncture cell membranes.  He also showed how to make DNA 
strings across PDMS pillars. 
• Professor Saif (UIUC): surface tension forces and micron size cantilevers.  
• Professor Leppert (UC Merced): silica nanoparticles toxicity. 
• Professor Liu (UIUC): surface enhanced Raman scattering method to detect proteomic 
activities and conformational changes.  Molecular dynamics are also used to understand 
the protein interactions. 
• Professor Bashir (UIUC): micro- or nano-fabrication methods.  Various technologies 
were shown to demonstrate the most updated fabrication methods.  Those new 
technology can make smaller features and three dimensional structures.    
• Professor Albert Feng (UIUC) : hearing and behavior of frogs. 
• Professor Brendan Harley: repair and regenerate tissue.  Scaffold fabrication using 3D 
patterning.  Microstructural modeling for foams or scaffolds.  Foam material properties 
were tested to evaluate their performance. 
• Professor Strano (MIT): applications of single wall carbon nanotube.  Positive ions were 
transported across the CNT at a higher mobility than in the bulk. 
• Professor Chang Liu (Northwestern): bio-inspired artificial sensors.  
• Professor Alam (UIUC): dimensional analysis for sensors.  This gives a good design 
principle for micro-sensors. 
The laboratories sessions are also very educational.  Despite the laborious process, an 
overall picture of how to run a biological lab is given.  The clean room tour also provides a good 
chance to look around the top notch micro-fabrication lab and identify several important 
processes to fabricate MEMS devices.  As for the enabling technology sessions, it is wonderful 
to learn soft lithography process with hands-on experience.  Overall, this Summer Institute has 
set up an excellent environment for members to learn new techniques.  
 
三、建議 
Although the Summer Institute overall gives an excellent learning experience, there are 
some areas to be improved in the future. 
First, the seminar schedule of the Summer Institute was too intensive.  This Summer 
Institute has an excellent collection of prestigious researchers in the bio-sensing and MEMS areas.  
The seminars are very informational, knowledgeable, and inspiring.  However, those speakers 
- 4 - 
 
Attachment 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會與美國國家科學基金合作舉辦 
國際學術研究交流計畫: 生物啟發之感測與致動技術 
2010年國際夏令研習班簡章 
 
NSC-NSF Summer Institute on 
Bio-Inspired Sensing and Bio-Inspired Actuation (BSBA) 
 
一. 主旨: 
行政院國家科學委員會 (National Science Council, NSC) 和美國國家科學基金
會 (National Science Foundation, NSF) 共同舉辦之國際學術研究交流計畫「生
物啟發之感測與致動技術 2010 年國際夏令研習班 (Bio-Inspired Sensing & 
Bio-Inspired Actuation Summer Institute)」，自即日起開始接受申請，敬請各單
位協助公告並請踴躍報名參加。 
 
二. 諮詢委員會: 
台灣: 
 李嗣涔校長 (國立台灣大學) 
 陳文華院長 (國家實驗研究院) 
美國: 
 Chancellor Henry Yang (University of California at Santa Barbara) 
- 6 - 
 
 
五. 申請資格: 
1. 申請人需具備中華民國國籍。 
2. 申請人需為中華民國大專院校工學院、電資學院、醫學院、理學院、或生
物學院等領域之年輕教師、研究所學生以及各研究機構博士後研究員為主要徵
選對象。 
3. 國內研究機構(大專院校除外)研究人員亦可參加徵選，唯不提供國科會之補
助。 
4. 申請人須具備良好英文聽說讀寫能力，若能提供語言測驗成績證明者尤佳。 
 
六. 申請方式: 
1. 請先至 http://www.me.ntu.edu.tw/BSBA.html 下載中文及英文報名表。 
2. 欲報名者須繳交報名表(含中文及英文版)各五份、電子檔燒錄製光碟以及
其它有利審查之個人學經歷相關文件(如已發表之相關論文或著作)，將申請文
件郵寄至本計畫執行單位: 台北市 106 羅斯福路四段一號國立台灣大學機械
工程系張所鋐教授。 
3. 申請截止日期為 2010年 4月 30日(以郵戳為憑)。 
 
七. 甄選及名單公佈: 
1. 評審委員會就申請人所繳交之書面申請資料審查，並依據評審標準遴選出
20名學員。 
2. 預定於 2010年 5月公佈結果，並將結果個別通知入選者，以及辦理赴美簽
證相關事宜。 
- 8 - 
 
Opening ceremony by US BSBA Summer Institute Director, Professor Jimmy Hsia 
 
BSBA Summer Institute lecture
- 10 - 
 
生物、科學)，在 bio-sensing和 bio-actuation方面的國際合作研究。本夏令
研習班聘請 BSBA相關領域的國際專家學者參與教學，除教授工程與生物
科技的專業知識外，並提供最新的研究課題與實際操作相關儀器的課程，
例如工程上奈米和微米製程、以及生物學上細胞組織的培養等。 
第二屆夏令研習班於 100年 7月 11日至 7月 22日於國立台灣大學召開，
舉行為期二週的研習。台美合計有 45名學員參加，其中 22名學員由台灣
執行單位遴選，另 23名學員由美國執行單位遴選。美國學員有來自MIT、
Stanford、UC Berkeley、UCSD、UIUC、UT Austin等名校之博碩士生，另
學員還有來自巴基斯坦的機械系系主任與來自埃及的博士生。 
 
二、研究成果 
 本次夏令研習班於早上時段邀請國內外專家學者，針對某項生醫科技作
深入的九十分鐘演講。演講題目涵蓋 Target therapy、Aptamer technology、
Tissue engineering、Wireless sensing、Biological inspired sensors、Cancer 
tumors、Mechanobiology、Cell detection、Bio-imaging、Medical devices等
議題。 
 
- 12 - 
 
實驗分組 
 
 
三、建議 
 「生物啟發之感測與致動技術國際夏令研習班(Bio-Inspired Sensing & 
Bio-Inspired Actuation Summer Institute)」在辦過第二屆之後，深獲好評！與會
來賓、教授、學員均認為這是一個促進不同領域台美學者國際合作研究的絕佳
機會。在二星期相處下，學員們都建立良好的情誼，有助於日後更進一步國際
合作的可能。101年第三屆國際夏令研習班迄今已收到一百五十份報名申請，
申請學員有醫生、醫學院學生、大學教授、與博碩士生，學員背景更加多元，
相信日後將能為台灣培養更多具有國際觀的生醫人才。 
 
 
- 14 - 
 
2011年 BSBA國際夏令研習班學員合照 
 
工研院參訪 
- 16 - 
 
微機電實驗 
 
奈米實驗 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/03/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 血管支架作為標靶治療的可行性研究(2/2)
計畫主持人: 蕭浩明
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-002-018- 學門領域: 無線感測器網路技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫國際合作對象為美國伊利諾大學香檳分校 Prof. Jimmy Hsia，共同舉辦
由行政院國家科學委員會(National Science Council)和美國國家科學基金會
(National Science Foundation)共同贊助之國際學術研究交流計畫「生物啟發
之感測與致動技術國際夏令研習班(Bio-Inspired Sensing & Bio-Inspired 
Actuation Summer Institute)」。生物啟發之感測與致動技術國際夏令研習班
(NSC-NSF BSBA Summer Institute)之主要目的是為促進不同領域的台灣與美國
學者(如工程、醫學、生物、科學)，在 bio-sensing 和 bio-actuation 方面的
國際合作研究。本夏令研習班聘請 BSBA 相關領域的國際專家學者參與教學，除
教授工程與生物科技的專業知識外，並提供最新的研究課題與實際操作相關儀
器的課程，例如工程上奈米和微米製程、及生物學細胞組織的培養等。99 年在
美國伊利諾大學香檳分校舉辦第一屆，100 年在台灣大學舉辦第二屆。每一屆
台美合計約有 40 名學員，其中 20 名學員由台灣執行單位遴選，另 20 名學員由
美國執行單位遴選，學員涵蓋教授、研究員、博碩士生。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
