中文摘要 
本研究的目的，為開發一套友善的電腦輔助植體方位計劃與植牙鑽孔導引件的設計工
具，此系統不但可協助並預視醫生進行植牙手術術前之規劃，其所設計、製造產出的植牙
導引板可協助解決困難複雜的植牙病例，作為精確手術導引用。本研究承續國科會計畫「電
腦輔助口顎手術計畫臨床應用新技術開發」所開發之新技術，並以獲得的專利與研發成果，
持續與成大醫院牙科的專業醫師密切合作，進行電腦輔助植牙植體方位計劃與鑽孔導引板
設計，並於臨床上進行人體實驗與實作應用。 
本計畫預期執行三年，目前是第一年成果精簡報告。三年工作分為先後銜接的兩大重
點研發目標，一是術前的電腦輔助植體方位計劃：將根據專業牙醫師植牙經驗以為對病患
植牙手術計畫的依據，透過植牙患者的電腦斷層影像，於空間中訂定植體植入的安全植牙
範圍，提供植體與顎骨壁、植體與神經血管、植體與鼻中膈、植體與植體間的可用距離檢
測。預計透過顎骨截面慣量軸的計算自動化找尋植體植入的最佳方位，提供科學化的植體
分佈建議，並開發友善的植體微調與檢測介面，因應患者個人特殊狀況進行自動化後之微
調規劃。二是植牙導引板的設計自動化與臨床應用：本研究將提供牙齒、軟組織與骨骼組
織的三種支撐型態，用以設計電鑽鑽孔導引板包覆外形設計，根據齒顎解剖學規劃鑽孔導
引環與固定釘之位置，並處理Drill guide握持把手等的相關導引輔件的開發設計，所設計的
植牙導引板將透過快速原型機輸出植牙導引件，並承接成大醫院及牙醫診所的複雜病例實
作研究成果，進行完整的植牙導引板臨床應用測試與精度驗證。除此之外，本研究將使用
自行開發的光學式空間位置追蹤裝置記錄並模組化患者之咬合運動與動態咬合面(Occlusal 
surface)，透過咬合面之幾何特徵決定植體進入點，使植體對於咬合施力有較穩固的應力分
佈。 
關鍵詞：電腦輔助手術計劃、植牙手術、鑽孔導引、咬合運動 
Abstract 
Aim of this study is to develop a friendly computer-aided tool for implant planning and drill 
guide template design. The design tool will increase precision in drill guide plan for those 
complicate and difficult dental implant cases. The techniques of computer-aided implant planning 
are derived from the outcomes in our previous NSC projects. This proposal is an 
inter-disciplinary collaboration between mechanical engineers in Engineering College and 
professional dentists in NCKU Medical School. 
There are two main goals of this three-year proposal. The first is a pre-surgical planning for 
drill guide. Base on professional implant experience of dentist, the spatial dental anatomy is 
reconstructed from computer tomography imaging; the safety zone for implant is defined. The 
safety zone assessment provides the feasible operation capabilities between implant and mandible 
wall, implant and internal nerve, implant and nasal septum, implant and implant, etc. The second 
goal is automatic drill guide template design and its clinical applications. There will be three 
types of template support, teeth support, gum support, and bone support. Positions of drill guide 
rings and template fixation screw are automatically developed based on dental anatomy. 
Complicate and difficult implant cases are selected for clinical rehearsal and drill examination on 
dental cast. Meanwhile, we are going to record and model personal occlusal curves and surfaces, 
therefore, implant orientation and position can be automatically defined for more stable stress 
distribution. Moreover, by applying a double scan technique, we can build up a complete position 
relationship between mandible and dental cast.  
二、研究目的 
本研究的目的，為開發一套友善化的電腦輔助植體方位計劃與植牙導引件的設計工
具，此系統不但可輔助醫生進行植牙手術術前之規劃，其所設計、製作出的導引板更可作
為精確植牙手術定位導引，最後將進行人體臨床試驗蒐集一般植牙手術方法及有導引工具
的植牙手術上的統計差異。 
 
三、文獻探討 
目前市售醫療影像軟體，可分為一般化功能導向與特定需求導向兩方面，但均具有基
本影像處理、三維空間觀視、影像擷取與三維重建編輯等基礎功能。其中以植牙為導向的
軟體：如Nobel BiocareTM的NobelGuideTM[13]、Materialise 的SimPlant[14]，除了具有診斷
與觀視的功能外，尚提供骨密度檢測、距離檢測、植體路徑規畫檢測，與模型輸出等功能，
以下將介紹市面上常見之軟體與其特點。 
■NobelGuide[15-18] 
由Nobel BiocareTM 公司所開發，在Procera®CAD/CAM 電腦3D 軟體的輔助下，可以
由CT 掃描重建3D 模型，進而預先模擬植牙的方向及位置，使手術過程快速而安全。
NobelGuideTM 在植牙導引板設計上為目前最為完善的系統之ㄧ，特點之一為固定釘的設
計，臨床手術時，植牙導引板常因軟組織沉降反彈造成植牙導引板定位導引誤差，固定釘
的使用更確立了植體間的相對關係，減少義齒牙橋架設時干涉情形，其次為手術器具與導
引板的結合運用，由NobelGuide 輸出手術導引板再由Brånemark®系統提供手術鑽孔器具進
行植牙路徑鑽孔，手術過程僅用一片植牙導引板，可降低手術成本與二次對位上的誤差。
手術計畫前患者需先進行CT 掃描，石膏牙模亦需進行掃描建立模型，可提高植牙導引板
設計時所需之牙冠外型精緻度。 
■ SimPlant Planner [19-25] 
由Materialise 所研究開發，Materialise 為全球快速原型、快速模具(rapid tooling; RT)、
快速製造(rapid manufacturing; RM)的大供應商，自1990 年起致力於RP 領域開發與研究，
SimPlant 與Procera®可說是現今市面上最普遍的兩套植牙系統軟體。SimPlant 的特點在於
能根據不同植牙狀況，設計不同型態植牙導引板，分別為骨支撐、牙齒支撐與牙齦支撐。
其中與本研究相關的是在SimPlant 中提供了Dr. James輔助精靈，可依據醫生需求自動提供
植體位置設計，並納入骨質、骨量資訊，除了植牙計畫尚有SimPlant OMS(Oral Maxillofacial 
Surgery 或稱CMF(Cranio Maxillo Facial)可進行3D 頭顱影像測量、模擬切骨手術計畫與軟
組織動態模擬。SimPlant 也可與SAFE System 搭配，在鑽孔時鑽頭上外加軸環控制鑽孔深
度，經過兩次擴孔與一次鑽孔，即可完成整個手術計畫。 
■ TDS ImplantSmart & SmartGuide[26] 
由台灣寶成企業的寶鈺生技股份有限公司與中正大學合作自主開發TDS(TurboDent 
System)3D齒雕系統，而ImplantSmart 為運用於植牙手術計畫中植體方位規劃之軟體，
SmartGuide 為輔助手術計畫製造植牙導引板之軟體。首先在石膏牙模上製作影像定位器，
再戴入患者口中一同進行斷層掃描，規劃手術計畫與導引板外型設計，最後採用CNC 五軸
加工機透過影像定位器的座標轉換車削出導引板外型與鑽孔孔徑。寶鈺公司除了植牙系統
外尚有齒雕，透過高精度的掃描重現石膏表面，並由TDS Designer 軟體調整牙冠厚度，設
計連接橋體以滿足功能與美觀，再由加工機雕刻出氧化鋯牙冠供醫師使用。上述商業軟體
大多提供安全檢測與植牙導引板設計功能，但是在其所提供的手術計畫過程中，除了
SimPlant 系統具有自動植體路徑規劃功能外，其他軟體中植體分佈與方位仍需由醫師手動
 
2. 植體路徑規劃 
植體路徑規劃流程如圖三所示，待匯入顎骨、牙齒、神經與患者動態咬合面的影像模
型後，預計以柱狀參考座標系(cylinder reference coordinate)定義系統座標，移動該平面使接
近牙科醫師粗略定義之三點咬合平面(過門牙中點及兩個大臼齒遠心頰側最突點)的靜態咬
合面(圖三中之藍色三角形)，再根據軸向角度做分區，將目標區域以度度量為單位進行分
區產生截面影像，計劃初期預計先由醫師決定植牙方位，透過滑鼠介面手動設定植牙進入
點與終點，並同時提供安全距離檢測，產生植體與顎骨壁、植體與神經、植體與植體間距
離，若發現未保持安全距離時，將提出警告訊息並要求使用者再次設定方位。 
 
圖三 電腦輔助植體路徑規劃流程 
3. 植體分佈計畫 
除了手動的植體方位設定外，本研究預計由分區所建立的各角度顎骨切面輪廓線，根
據顎骨外形、神經位置與動態咬合曲面，待設定植體分佈區域與植體數量後，自動進行植
體進入點與安全植入終點找尋，預計透過顎骨截面慣量軸的決定植體進入點，找尋角度分
區截面轉動慣量最小的長軸，作為植體植入軸向，找尋植體終點時，需避開上下顎骨中的
神經與血管並保持安全距離。最後並建立相對應的友善微調介面，以供醫師進行計劃修正
之用。 
4. 石膏齒列模型套合 
在陶瓷鑲牙技術尚未風行的年代，填補牙齒的蛀洞都是使用金屬的牙科填充材料，而
這些金屬材質會導致CT 影像的假影，導致錯誤的數位模型的產出。由於X 光吸收與反射
現象，金屬散射所影響的範圍不僅存在於接近的牙體範圍，在同一張影像上X 光投射往往
橫越整張影像，造成同一張影像上的左右側牙齒影像亦受波及，如圖四(a)所示，金屬散射
影像由右側牙延伸至左側牙，使得三維重建的模型圖四(b) 造成嚴重變形。 
 圖六決定植體進入點(以下顎植體為例) (a)咬合面植體計畫；(b)慣量軸植體計畫 
 
五、結果與討論 
本計畫申請三年先過一年，已完成原本估算的一年期進度，在今年度完成以建立安全
植牙區域與設定植體位置為主，其最重要的就是倚靠植牙專家經驗，訂定出安全植牙區域
的距離，如植牙相關安全距離與咬合面，首先定義各組織與植體安全距離，如圖七以下顎
為例，訂定植體相對於植體、牙根、骨壁、頦孔以及神經上緣間的安全間距。 
 
圖七 植體分佈專家經驗示意圖 
在咬合學中，具特徵性的咬合運動有前突運動、張口閉合運動、與側咬運動，這些運
動軌跡均可透過追蹤紀錄並由數學方法加以參數化[6, 7]，於空間中建立個人咬合運動的參
數曲線。患者接受 CT 掃描，可重建患者顎骨與神經組織三維模型，植體路徑規劃與植體分
佈計畫利用咬合運動追蹤系統重建患者個人咬合曲面，俾便進行植牙手術計畫，利用根據
植牙進入點與植牙終點找尋，提供設定介面於訂定植牙區域與植體數目，自動化平均分佈
植體，所分佈植體軸向即為植體進入點與植體終點連線。圖八展示目前進度。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. J.J. Fang, T.H. Kuo, “Modeling for mandibular movement,＂ Annual of Biomechanical 
Engineering (in revision). (SCI) 
10. J.J. Fang, T.H. Kuo, “A new rapid correspondence method using in real-time stereo 
system,＂ submitted to Machine Vision and Applications. (SCI) 
11. "Branemark", 2005, Branemark, "http://www.branemark.com," 13th Dec ,2009. 
12. Taipei congress of oral implantologists, "New Vision of 3D Dental Implantology", Taipei 
congress of oral implantologists, 2008. 
13. "NobelBiocare ", 2009, NobelBiocare, "http://www.nobelbiocare.com," 13th Dec ,2009. 
14. "Materialise", 2009, Materialise, "http://www.materialise.com," 13th Dec ,2009. 
15. Steenberghe, D., Glauser, R., Blombäck, U., Andersson, M., Schutyser, F., Pettersson, A. and 
Wendelhag, I., "A Computed Tomographic Scan-Derived Customized Surgical Template and 
Fixed Prosthesis for Flapless Surgery and Immediate Loading of Implants in Fully Edentulous 
Maxillae: A Prospective Multicenter Study," Clinical Implant Dentistry and Related Research, 
Vol.7, No.s1, pp.s111-s120, 2005. 
16. Marchack, C.B., "An Immediately Loaded CAD/CAM-Guided Definitive Prosthesis: A 
Clinical Report," The Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry, Vol.93, No.1, pp.8-12, 2005. 
17. Kupeyan, H.K., Shaffner, M., and Armstrong, J., "Definitive CAD/CAM-Guided Prosthesis 
for Immediate Loading of Bone-Grafted Maxilla: A Case Report," Clinical Implant Dentistry 
and Related Research, Vol.8, No.3, pp.161-167, 2006. 
18. Balshi, S.F., Wolfinger, G.J. and Balshi, T.J., "Surgical Planning and Prosthesis Construction 
Using Computed Tomography, CAD/CAM Technology, and The Internet for Immediate 
Loading of Dental Implants," Journal of Esthetic and Restorative Dentistry, Vol.18, No.6, 
pp.312-323, 2006. 
19. Valente F. and Sbrenna A., "CAD CAM Drilling Guides for Transferring CT-based Digital 
Planning to Flapless Placement of Oral Implants in Complex Cases," International Journal of 
Computer Assisted Rasiology and Surgery, Vol. 1, No.1, pp.413-414, 2006. 
20. Mischkowski, R.A., Zinser, M.J., Neugebauer, J., Kubler, A.C. and Zoller, J.E., "Comparison 
of Static and Dynamic Computer-Assisted Guidance Methods in Implantology," International 
Journal of Computerized Dentistry, Vol.9, No.1, pp.23-35, 2006. 
21. Sudbrink, S.D., "Computer-Guided Implant Placement With Immediate Provisionalization: A 
Case Report," Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Vol.63, No.6, pp.771-774, 2005. 
22. Ganz, S.D., "Presurgical Planning with CT-Derived Fabrication of Surgical Guides," Journal 
of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Vol.63, No.9, Supplement 1, pp.59-71, 2005. 
23. Rosenfeld, A.L., Mandelaris, G.A. and Tardieu, P.B., "Prosthetically Directed Implant 
Placement Using Computer Software to Ensure Precise Placement and Predictable Prosthetic 
Outcomes. Part 1: Diagnostics, Imaging, and Collaborative Accountability," International 
Journal of Periodontics and Restorative Dentistry, Vol.26, No.3, 2006. 
24. Rosenfeld, A.L., Mandelaris, G.A. and Tardieu, P.B., "Prosthetically Directed Implant 
Placement Using Computer Software to Ensure Precise Placement and Predictable Prosthetic 
Outcomes. Part 2: Rapid-Prototype Medical Modeling and Stereolithographic Drilling Guides 
Requiring Bone Exposure," International Journal of Periodontics and Restorative Dentistry, 
Vol.26, No.4, 2006. 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：100 年 9 月 25 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱： 
電腦輔助植牙計畫與鑽孔導引件設計於臨床之應用 
計畫主持人：方晶晶 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-006-110 
學門領域：醫療技術研發 
技術/創作名稱 電腦輔助植牙計畫與鑽孔導引件設計於臨床之應用 
發明人/創作人 方晶晶、王東堯、何佳霖 
技術說明 
中文： 
本研究的目的，為開發一套友善的電腦輔助植體方位計劃與植牙鑽
孔導引件的設計工具，此系統不但可協助並預視醫生進行植牙手術
術前之規劃，其所設計、製造產出的植牙導引板可協助解決困難複
雜的植牙病例，作為精確手術導引用。 
英文： 
Aim of this study is to develop a friendly computer-aided tool for 
implant planning and drill guide template design. The design tool will 
increase precision in drill guide plan for those complicate and difficult 
dental implant cases. 
可利用之產業及 
可開發之產品 
各大型醫學中心、醫院、及牙科診所的植牙用工具產品 
技術特點 滿足人體解剖學所需之植牙導引板計劃 
推廣及運用的價值 電腦科技的進步，cone-beam CT 的普及化，CT 安全性的提高，牙科醫師會愈來愈多使用數位影像產品以提高診斷與治療品質。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
表 Y04 
部會的醫材方案研究計畫，預計將研究成果推向商品化，協助台灣新創醫材公司站穩腳步，
跨足國際。工業設計在雛型品研發幾近完成前可以協助包裝，此行與曾教授暢談，大家都有
共同理念建立未來可以合作機會。 
參展廠商中特別要提的是，交通大學林進燈教授的腦科學研究中心，推廣上市自行開發
的腦波訊號擷取器，以乾式取代一般濕式黏貼擷取訊號，廣穫在場公司、學校、研究單位的
注意，這樣以台灣交通大學的名義接受訂單，展售自己研發的產品，真是了不起。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無。 
 
四、建議 
筆者感謝國科會計畫提供教授出席國際學術會議，設法增加台灣在國際舞台的研究知名
度與名號，我們也盡力達成該項目標。唯油價能源上漲相對帶動機票與各城市生活基本支出
費用的上揚，建議國科會出席國際會議案採用住宿費與機票費實報實銷方式，以單據核銷，
只鎖定計畫總出國旅費上限即可。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議議程及論文 DVD 一片： 
1. DVD: HCI International 2011, LNCS 6761-6779, LNAI 6780-6781, CCIS 173-174, 
proceeding and posters. 
 
六、其他 
無 
 
 
 
 
 
An Automatic Method for Computerized Head and 
Facial Anthropometry 
Jing-Jing Fang, Sheng-Yi Fang 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, 
National Cheng-Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan 
fjj@mail.ncku.eud.tw, n18981220@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
Abstract. Facial anthropometry plays an important role in ergonomic 
applications. Most ergonomically-designed products depend on stable and 
accurate human body measurement data. Head and facial anthropometric 
dimensions provide detailed information on head and facial surfaces to develop 
well-fitting, comfortable and functionally-effective facial masks, helmets or 
customized products. Accurate head and facial anthropometry also allows 
orthognathic surgeons and orthodontists to plan optimal treatments for patients. 
Our research uses an automatic, geometry-based facial feature extraction 
method to identify head and facial features, which can be used to develop a 
highly-accurate feature-based head model. In total, we have automatically 
located 17 digital length measurements and 5 digital tape measurements on the 
head and face. Compared to manual length-measurement, the average error, 
maximum error and standard deviations are 1.70mm, 5.63mm and 1.47mm, 
respectively, for intra-measurement, and 2.07mm, 5.63mm and 1.44mm, 
respectively, for inter-measurement. Compared to manual tape-measurement, 
the average maximum error and standard deviations are 1.52mm, 3.00mm and 
0.96mm, respectively, for intra-measurement, and 2.74mm, 5.30mm and 
1.79mm, respectively, for inter-measurement. Nearly all of length measurement 
data and tape measurement data meet the 5mm measuring error standard. 
Keywords: anthropometry, head and face, feature-based 
1 Introduction 
Facial anthropometry is very important for the design and manufacture of products 
which rely on access to a database of accurate head size measurements to ensure 
comfort and utility, such as helmets, masks, eyeglasses and respirators [1, 2]. 
Traditionally, anthropometric measurements were taken subjectively by an 
experienced technician using an anthropometer, sliding calipers, spreading calipers, 
and a measuring tape. This traditional measurement method is very time-consuming 
and highly dependent on the measurer’s skill, and thus cannot provide objective, 
accurate and reproducible measurement data. An automated measurement system 
could therefore be very useful to ergonomic designers. 
3 
The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 introduces the anthropometry 
landmarks on the head and face. We divide the head model into longitudinal-and-
latitudinal meshes, allowing us to use automatic methods to make head and facial 
anthropometry measurements. Section 3 presents all 17 length measurements and 5 
tape measurements, and compares them with manual measurements. Finally, we 
discuss the advantages and disadvantages of this study, and suggest possible future 
work. 
2 Methods 
2.1 Anthropometry landmarks 
We used a computed tomography scanner (Biograph; Siemens AG, Berlin, 
Germany) to obtain high density scan data from a plastic mannequin, identifying 
facial features using an automatic features identification method [21]. This automatic 
marker-less method detects head and facial features according to geometric variations. 
In total, the method can detect 67 feature points and 24 feature lines on the head, and 
is an objective identification method in that it avoids the subjective feature 
identification results inherent in manual measurements by differently-skilled 
technicians. 
In our previous work, the primary landmarks were located on the head scan data. 
Most anthropometry landmarks can be detected by geometry-based feature 
identification methods, but some are defined on bone surface and do not have 
geometric characteristics on soft tissue. For instance, to solve the unclear geometric 
characteristic of soft tissue, the gonion feature on the chin line is defined according to 
the golden ratio between the chin feature and the ear position. 
All the identified features used for coming applications are listed as follows:  
 Centerline: Op-Opthrocranion, V-Vertex, G-Glabella, S-Sellion, Prn-Pronasale, 
                   Sn-Subnasale, Sto-Stomion, Chi-Chin 
 Eyes: P-Pupilla 
 Nose: Al-Alare 
 Ears: Pa-Preaurale 
 Mouth: Ch-Chelion 
 Bone: Zyf-Zygofrontale, Ft-Frontotemporale, Zy-Zygomatic, Go-Gonion, 
          Me-Menton 
2.2 Model Construction 
We used the method described in [7] to develop multi-resolution head models 
suited to different applications. For medical applications, we can construct the head 
model using high-resolution with highly-accurate meshes, while other applications 
require only lower-resolution meshes with small file sizes. The method locates 
longitude and latitude lines based on the location of facial feature points, and adjusts 
5 
  
1 1
, , 0, 1, 1, 2,
k k
convex i i i i i k
i i
p pH k   
 
 
    

 

   (3) 
A rough estimation of tape measurements can be given by summing the inter-
vertex distance of  convexH  , but precision depends on the resolution of the mesh 
surface. To obtain a well-estimated measurement, Leong employed a B-spline 
approximation technique to regenerate the surface curve [22]. In our research, we 
adopt this method and use an order k=4 B-spline curve to fit the polyline 
      , 1 1
1
,,
n
i k i k n
t
N tC u u P u t 

   (4) 
where Pi is the control point, and Ni,k is the k
th-order B-spline basis function. 
After constructing the corresponding B-spline curve of the specific polyline, the tape 
measurement can be determined by numerical integration, 
  
1
0
u
u
C u dL n h ue gt


   (5) 
In Fig.3, the black points Fi, Fi+1, and Fi+2 are the intersection points of the plane E 
and the triangular meshes ∆j and ∆j+1. The red line is the original polyline connecting 
the intersection points, and the blue curve (the dashed line) is the corresponding 
fitting B-spline curve. 
 
Fig. 2. plastic mannequin 
Fi+2
△j
△j+1
E
Fi Fi+1
 
Fig. 3. Convex-hull B-spline curve approximation 
3 Results 
Our research uses an automatic feature extraction method to identify head and 
facial features from a scanned head model. We propose a multi-resolution mesh 
construction method to reconstruct the head mesh model, and apply a genetic 
optimization method to obtain the optimized mesh numbers with good accuracy. The 
optimum mesh number is 120× 70, the resulting error is about 0.069mm, and the long-
narrow triangular mesh percentage is about 2.66%. The head mesh model is shown as 
Fig. 4 where the black lines are the mesh edge, green points are the feature points, and 
red lines are the feature lines.  
7 
Table 1. Definitions of length measurement anthropometry 
 Feature name Proj. plane Anthropometry landmarks 
1 Maximum frontal breadth coronal Left and right zygofrontale 
2 Minimum frontal breadth coronal Left and right frontotemporale 
3 Interpupillary breadth coronal left and right pupilla 
4 Nasal root breadth coronal 
The root of the left and right bridge 
of the nose 
5 Nose breadth coronal Left and right alare 
6 Bizygomatic breadth coronal 
Maximum horizontal breadth 
between left and right zygomatic 
arches 
7 Bigonial breadth coronal Left and right gonion 
8 Lip length coronal Left and right chelion 
9 Menton-sellion length sagittal Menton and sellion 
10 Subnasale-sellion length sagittal Subnasale and sellion 
11 Nose protrusion sagittal Pronasale and subnasale 
12 Facial projection sagittal Sellion and tragion 
13 Chin projection sagittal Menton and tragion 
14 Sellion Z sagittal Vertex and sellion 
15 Right tragion X sagittal Sellion and opisthrocranion 
16 Head breadth coronal 
The maximum horizontal breadth of 
the head above the ears 
17 Head length sagittal Glabella and opisthrocranion 
 
Table 2. Definitions of tape measurement anthropometry 
 Feature name Start point Mid-point End point 
1 Bitragion coronal arc left tragion Vertex right tragion 
2 Bitragion frontal arc left tragion Forehead right tragion 
3 Bitragion subnasale arc left tragion Subnasale right tragion 
4 Bitragion chin arc left tragion Chin right tragion 
5 Head circumference 
Maximum circumference of the head above the 
eyebrow ridges 
 
Five volunteers used traditional measuring tools, including measuring tape 
(accuracy: 0.1mm) and calipers (accuracy: 0.01mm) to obtain these head and facial 
anthropometry data points for the plastic mannequin, which will be used for 
comparison with our research. The volunteers’ measurement error results are listed in 
Table 3. From these experiments we can see that the maximum error often occurs on 
the Maximum and Minimum Frontal Breadth features (i.e., the distance between the 
zygofrontale or frontotemporale) in the length measurement group, and the bitragion 
chin arc (i.e., the arc length between the left and right tragion passing through the chin 
point) in the tape measurement group. 
9 
minimum mesh number and minimum error with good geometric configuration (i.e., 
fewer long-narrow triangular meshes). 
Anthropometry traditionally relies on the measurer’s experience and skill in 
manually identifying and measuring features. Our research demonstrates an automatic 
digital head and facial anthropometry method for measuring 17 length measurements 
and 5 tape measurements defined in the NIOSH anthropometry survey for respirator 
design, and which are used as a common industrial standard. Our method provides 
more objective and highly reproducible measuring data than do traditional 
measurement methods. Compared to manual length-measurement, the average error, 
maximum error and standard deviation are 1.70mm, 5.63mm and 1.47mm, 
respectively, for intra-measurement and 2.07mm, 5.63mm and 1.44mm, respectively, 
for inter-measurement. Compared to manual tape-measurement, the average error, 
maximum error and standard deviation are 1.52mm, 3.00mm and 0.96mm, 
respectively, for intra-measurement and 2.74mm, 5.30mm and 1.79mm, respectively, 
for inter-measurement. 
5 Discussion 
Our method can obtain highly-accurate and highly-reproducible anthropometry 
data on well-defined features. Some anthropometry data have large errors (more than 
5mm) and they often occur on ambiguous feature points or on feature point that are 
not defined on soft tissue. Resolving this problem requires the establishment of more 
accurate and suitable feature definitions to replace the current ambiguous definitions. 
The results can be used in the design of products like helmets, face shields and 
respirators, and are also helpful in the analysis of human facial surfaces for clinical 
diagnosis and assessment. 
References 
1. Li, J.C., Lin, Y.H., Yang, Y.X., Chen, C.Y.: A Study of Safety Helmet Size in 
Relation to Size Classification in Taiwan's Worker Craniofacial Database. Journal 
of Occupational Safety and Health 14, 48-57 (2006) 
2. Liu, H., Li, Z., Zheng, L.: Rapid Preliminary Helmet Shell Design Based on 
Three-Dimensional Anthropometric Head Data. Journal of Engineering Design 19, 
45-54 (2008) 
3. Human Solutions of North America Inc., http://www.human-solutions.com/ 
4. Cyberware Inc., http://www.cyberware.com/ 
5. Vitronic Machine Vision Ltd., http://www.vitronic.de/ 
6. Textile/Clothing Technology Corp., http://www.tc2.com/ 
7. Fang, S.-Y., Fang, J.-J.: A Geometric Features Preserving Method for Facial 
Reconstruction. In: Conference A Geometric Features Preserving Method for 
Facial Reconstruction.  (Year) 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下 
赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得報告 
日期：100 年 9 月 10 日 
                          
本計畫國際合作差旅費，是支援本計畫主持人與共同主持人與英國大學的
國際合作研究案的促成。的確，我們接受國科會國合計畫差旅費，前後七年到
英國至少三次，2010 年促成英國這三所大學合提 FP7 計劃案，該 FP7 提案初
審時獲得高分 13 分 (滿分 15)，複審未獲通過，據了解主因是歐盟研究政策面
向造成。歐洲三個大國具有大量研究資金支援—英國、法國、德國，人稱「歐
盟金三角」，歐協在 FP7 的審核上有不成文內規，希望 FP7 研究經費能協助除
了金三角外的其他小國，挹注經費期望從研發經費帶動國家的進步，目標使歐
盟各小國能長大獨立，使歐盟體能平均一起成長。不幸的是，本研究合作國家
橫跨六國，金三角中的英法名列期間，在複審階段當有難以取捨決定時，只要
有審查委員提出平衡論，自然就被擠掉。以上這論述是英國的教授私下說明告
訴，其可信度筆者無法置評。 
 
回頭說到計畫主持人國際合作研究計畫原訂出國行程表安排如下： 
        
2001/8/10 10:20 抵達愛丁堡，入住校方安排 Guest house 
2011/8/11 Heriot-Watt University 會議室介紹雙方研究人員，相互認識交換
名片與禮物，並進行雙方研究進度討論 
2011/8/12 Department of Mechanical Engineering, Heriot-Watt University 
實驗室參觀 
2011/8/13 前往格拉斯哥(Glasgow)，拜訪 Glasgow University Dental School
研究人員，參觀實驗室，進行研究進度報告與討論 
2011/8/14 拜訪 Strathclyde University 研究人員及參觀實驗室 
2011/8/15~16 參訪 Edinburgh University Medical School 
2011/8/17 搭機返國 
 
訪英期間英國大學正值暑假，校方許多研究學者喜好利用假期休假出國旅
遊，筆者原訂的行程因此生變，同時該時節愛丁堡正值每年一度藝術節，聚集
計畫編號 NSC 99-2212-E-006-110 
計畫名稱 電腦輔助植牙計畫與鑽孔導引件設計於臨床之應用 
出國人員
姓名 方晶晶 服務機構及職稱
國立成功大學機械工程學系 
出國時間 100年 8月 9日至 100 年 8 月 18 日 出國地點 
英國愛丁堡、格拉斯哥 
圖二 討論繼 FP7 提案未果下，未來兩校可能的合作模式 
 
圖三 進行中之義肢包覆設計研究案與設計快速試製樣品 
 
 拜訪 Prof. Ahsraf Ayoub, Professor of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, University 
of Glasgow Dental Hospital & School (GDHS) 
Prof. Ashraf Ayoub 近年來在國際上的知名度越來越高，緣於發表於數個頂尖醫
學期刊論文，尤其 Glasgow Dental School 在口腔疾病治療專長聞名國際，此
行最大的目標就是建立成大醫院與該牙醫學研究所的未來合作模式。Prof. 
Ayoub 是口顎手術臨床醫師，專長在唇顎裂整形、上顎骨整形術、正顎手術，
也是一位相當聰明、效率、果斷的學者，Dr. B Khambay 是臨床與他配合多年
的齒顎矯正科醫師，他們一直以來以計畫經費聘用工程研發人員，協助開發實
現他們在該臨床研究的需求，三年前開發立體攝影機用來記錄分析唇顎裂軟組
織在術前與術後的變化，並用來協助手術計畫的訂定，應用於正顎手術只能追
蹤軟組織的術前術後變化。座談會首先由本國合計畫共同主持人王東堯醫師(成
大醫院口腔顎面外科臨床醫師、前中華民國口腔顎面科學會理事長，圖四中坐
在玻璃窗前電腦旁，筆者則在圖右方第二位)報告最新的研究成果，對方對於我
們報告的成果在臨床實用十分感興趣，除了詳問理論細節外，當場提出希望我
方可以提供硬軟體設備，使應用於Glasgow Dental Hospital臨床正顎手術患者，
藉機可以協助我方進行系統確效性驗證。事後與共同主持人商討結果，返國後
我方將提出保密合約、合作提案及雙邊合作協議書，以建立雙邊合作模式。圖
五由左至右為 Prof. Ashraf Ayoub、Dr. Khambay、及該所聘請的工程研發人
員。 
進行中的專題，及與業界合作執行中的計畫案，該研究室的特色在於擷取腦波
訊號來了解工程人員在工程教育學習上與思考邏輯上的異同點。另外，開發具
力回饋學習機的齲齒診斷工具，王東堯醫師藉機親身體驗(圖八)。虛擬實境的遊
戲機市場上炙手可熱，遊戲機使用前須要註冊定位，該構想是開發免註冊的遊
戲方法，以一個攝影機追蹤鑲在手套指上的 LED，雖不須註冊隨時可用，但一
個 CCD 影像追蹤缺乏深度，影像呈現上只能稱 2D 遊戲機(圖九)。 
在稍後與 Prof. Richie 研發團隊進行座談(圖十，圖十一)，討論到歐盟 FP7
計畫提案情形，雖該案可能因政治考量未受補助，但研究腳步與方向並未因此
停息。他更說明在全球不景氣的影響下，歐盟各國工業蒙受經濟衰退壓力下資
金緊縮，相對嚴重影響國家稅收進而波及研發基金，但無論如何仍將繼續找尋
機會，耐心的尋求業界或 Wellcomes 基金可能的經費支援，繼續與我方合作。
同時，對於我方自行研發的光學追蹤系統十分感興趣，希望可以提供已發表的
相關文獻，甚至未來可以提供一組硬軟體系統，建立雙方合作互惠管道。 
這次拜訪十分有趣，英國兩校均對於我方超前的研發技術深感興趣，想用
成大的研發成果，說明我方研發實力。將與共同主持人商談跨國合作對策，思
考如何因應。 
 
圖七 Dr Lim 介紹研究工作  圖八 王醫師體驗力回饋齲齒檢測學習機 
 
圖九 學生展示自行研發之虛擬遊戲機 
 
圖十三 與 Prof. Simmons 及其家人合照 
 
後記： 
本國合計畫進行訪英期間，恰巧知悉國科會公開徵求 100 年度台灣與英國頂尖
大學前期合作研究計畫，發現 University of Glasgow 的排名 32，並未落在英
國前30頂尖大學名單內，十分失望。筆者獲得國科會國合計畫經費支援有四次，
到英國拜訪Ｈeriot-Watt Unviersity 及 Univeristy of Glasgow 數回終於促成 FP7
提案，雖未獲通過但此行更串起研發團隊的新目標，更獲得英國兩校認同。若
要重新找尋英國頂尖大學合作對象，一切除了重新開始，若與英國他校同一領
域的競爭對手合作是否適合?是否會令GDHS團隊覺得受背棄之嫌，值得思考。 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：方晶晶 計畫編號：99-2221-E-006-110- 
計畫名稱：電腦輔助植牙計畫與鑽孔導引件設計於臨床之應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：
如數個計畫共同
成果、成果列為
該期刊之封面故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 5 0 100% 病例報告共五份 
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 
1. 何佳霖、方晶
晶 、 鍾 景 宏 ，
2010/11/26~28，’
數位化植牙導引板
包覆範圍設計與規
劃，’ 中華牙醫學
會 99 年年會，台北
世貿展覽館。 
2. 何佳霖、方晶
晶、鍾景宏、吳子
傑 ，
2011/8/18~20，’電
腦輔助植牙植體方
位計劃與導引板設
計於臨床之應用，’
2011 年醫學工程研
討會，台南成功大
學。 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 2 1 100% 
1.方晶晶、鍾景宏、
郭泰宏，建立個人牙
齒咬合曲面及其用
於建立義齒模型方
法，中華民國發明專
利 申 請 案 號
096142655 ，
2007/11/12。 
2.方晶晶、鍾景宏、
何佳霖、郭泰宏，植
牙植體方位規劃暨
植牙鑽孔導引板設
計之整合方法，中華
民國發明專利申請
案號 099119606 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
國內 
技術移轉 件數 0 0 100% 件  
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
