 1
壹、中英文摘要 
台灣古蹟之傳統營造與現代修復差異之研究暨修復方針之研擬 
一、中文摘要 
 在文化資產保存發展史上，十九世紀法國維奧雷‧勒‧杜克
（ Viollet-le-Duc）主張的「風格式維修」，十九世紀末的英國威廉莫里斯
（William Morris）主導的「無作為保護」，至於同時期義大利主張的「科學化
修復」，而後延續至西元 1964 年的《威尼斯憲章》的簽訂，以及 1972 聯合國教
科文組織（UNESCO）於年通過著名的《保護世界文化和自然遺產公約》等，西方
對於古蹟修復的態度與方法，從分歧到整合，逐漸在西方世界發展出一套普世認
同的現代修復理論。 
台灣過去雖然有傳統建築的保存呼聲與零星的田野調查研究，1982 年「文
化資產保存法」的立法，古蹟的保存與修復獲得了公部門的主導與經費挹注，亦
提供傳統建築的研究與保存。然而在古蹟的保存與修復上，由於台灣古蹟保存界
自外於國際社會，對於國際現代修復學沒有研究，而以傳統的營造知識來做古蹟
之復原，檢視二十多年下來近百座的古蹟進行了一次至兩次的修復成果，大多破
壞了古蹟的原有價值而不自知，問題顯得嚴重。 
國際的現代修復標準，與過去台灣古蹟修復之傳統營造方式仍存有許多實際
差異，因此本計劃乃在釐清現代修復方式與傳統工法之間差異，探討台灣古蹟修
復中傳統營造與傳統技術所應具備的修復理念與原則。 
關鍵詞：古蹟、傳統營造、現代修復、修復方針 
 
二、英文摘要 
The Study of the Differences between Traditional Construction and Modern Restoration 
for Monuments in Taiwan and the Propose for a Restoration Guideline 
In the history of cultural heritage development,at 19th century Viollet-le-Duc 
advocate「Style -like Repair」in France, William Morris stand for 「Accomplish Nothing 
Protection」in Britain.and at the same time Italian maintain 「Scientific Repair」，Till 
Venice Charter (威尼斯憲章)was addressed in 1964 and UNESCO pass a resolution 
of 「The World Heritage Convention：Convention Concerning the Protection of the 
World Cultural and Heritage」（世界遺產公約）.The manner and method of historical 
site repair from difference to conformity in West,Eventually the theories of the 
architectural heritage preservation and conservation have been spread in the world. 
 3
就過去台灣古蹟修復而言，「匠藝」擁有者之匠師扮演了重要的地位，然而一再
執著於其傳統營造技藝和堅持恢復傳統形式的觀念與作法，卻常常與現代保存科
學與修復技術產生衝突，而導致文化資產價值之損壞與喪失。 
本文將以古蹟修復之「真實性」來評估「匠藝」對古蹟修復的影響，近一步
以台灣傳統木構架之古蹟修復為例來探討，論及「匠藝」是否等同於「修復技術」，
指出其異同之所在，以及在建構現代古蹟修復技術時應有的原則與看法。在釐清
古蹟中傳統建築類型、傳統營造方法以及修復技術之間的關係，再藉由國外修復
史過程中觀察修復原則與方法的演進，研究習得其值得借鏡之處，最後再以修復
實際操作時所必須依循之「修復方針」來呈現台灣傳統古蹟修復所需擬定之原則
與規範。 
 
二、研究目的 
文化資產保存是人類全體的共識，邁入 21 世紀全球化的思考是一個共通的
觀念，但基於在地化的價值判斷與行動綱領，也應受到充分的重視。現階段世界
各國對於古蹟保存，仍以 1964 年的《威尼斯憲章》為準；然而經過四十年推行，
在許多地區或國家已分別研訂適合當地特性的規則，最為著稱的應屬澳洲的《布
拉憲章》(The Bura Charter1979，1999)。中國大陸亦於 2000 年 10 月研訂簡稱承
德準則的「中國文物古蹟保護準則」共 23 條等。 
本研究企圖分辨傳統營造技術與修復技術之差異，並探討國際修復觀念之形
成過程與援引當代保存修復之規章，並思考台灣古蹟特殊類型之修復特色，建構
修復「準則」及其實務執行時進一步的指導方針，企圖引導出台灣古蹟修復技術
研究之新方向。  
 
三、文獻探討 
（一）台灣傳統木構造建築營造特色之揭露 
台灣過去對於傳統建築的了解，從戰後各大學建築系開設之「中國建築史」
來看，大抵是以朱啟鈐、梁思成為主的「中國營造學社」一系列的傳統建築調查
研究，包括在 1920 至 1940 年代之間陸續出版：《營造學社彙刊》、《中國建築設
計參考圖集》、《營造法式注釋》、《清式營造則例及算例》等為研究起頭。 
實際上，1980 年代開始，有一些建築學者從台灣田野出發，探訪台灣古廟
宇、民宅，訪談建造的老匠師，逐漸勾勒出台灣傳統建築的面貌與探討其形式與
作法，研究論文方面有徐裕建的《台灣傳統建築營建尺寸規制之研究》（1980）、
林邦輝《台灣傳統閩南式廟宇營建與施工之研究》（1981），以及而洪文雄《從現
存實例及台灣工匠探討中國傳統穿斗式屋架的演變》（1983）等，林會承《傳統
建築手冊》（1989）、徐明福《台灣傳統民宅及其地方性史料之研究》（1990）以
及李乾朗於 1995 年起發表的《傳統建築匠藝》連刊等都屬於專書著作，在傳統
建築題材之揭露與研究方法上都有所貢獻。 
 5
修復傳統建築的修復師也應該積極傳統營造之構法技術。 
擬由東方傳統建築特性研究開始，尤其是中國與台灣的傳統木構建築的構造
技術研究發展開始，觀察二十多年來台灣古蹟修復成果中，提出有關傳統營造技
術與現代修復運用之差異，而擬定出台灣傳統木構造古蹟的修復方針。 
 
五、結果與討論（含結論與建議） 
（一）、傳統建築營造與保存修復技術差異 
在這些研究的初步成果之下，我們比照國際間對於古蹟保存之觀念與台灣
目前古蹟修復作法，我們試以台灣傳統大木構建築傳統營造之系統為架構，並以
近年來現代化之修復技術內容來作為對應，而獲得清楚之有關傳統營造技術與現
代修復技術差異點。整理如下： 
 
項目 傳統營造技術 現代修復技術 
觀念 
（目的） 
建造符合地域氣候環境，建造出尋
求遮風避雨、安全與舒適的空間。
在真實性條件下，保存和顯現古
蹟建築的美學和歷史價值，而且
必須以尊重原始材料和真實的史
料證物為基礎。 
發展背景 1.台灣傳統營造除地方性自助式
營造體系(如茅屋、土埆厝)屬就地
取材、技術層次較低，民眾可自行
興建構築。 
 
2.廟宇與大型民居之木構造技術
應得自中國大陸。 
 
3.透過郊商的帆船，運送來了「唐
山司傅」與木、石等建築材料。 
 
1.具有歷史、文化、藝術、科學等價
值的古蹟需要作為「物證」、或「見
證物」般地被保存起來。 
2.面對既有物質或實質環境的缺
損，研發與利用最新科學與技術要
修補、復原。 
3.構造材料本質與特性研究、損壞與
劣化與防治之研究、修補之材料與
工法之研究、修復之規範研究、保
存環境之研究等等，而逐漸構成一
龐雜之修復學問體系。 
發展年間 清代中葉(1800)至日治時期
(1895~1945)延伸至戰後(約 1970
年代) 
文資法立法(1982)始有古蹟修復 
營造組織與
成員 
1. 執業組織：「團」為單位，每
團都有一位落稿（篙）師傅 
（林邦輝，1981:88。葉乃齊，
2002:45） 
2.大木匠師(司傅、大工師)
領導、師徒制、「匠幫」(是自師
徒制中衍生的團體)、藉由傳統營
1.設計師(建築師) 
 
2.修復公司營造廠 
 
3.修復師（匠師） 
 
4.學者專家之諮詢 
 7
合─＞不符者拆卸重新製作─＞
構架單元組立─＞釘桷仔─＞置
暗厝─＞封簷板─＞裝飾材固定
（林邦輝，1981:83） 
紀錄。 
工程進行為原有構築方式的
反向施工，從屋頂拆解、木構架修
復、牆體，地板舖面與基礎。 
使用工具 1.切割塑形：斧、錛、鑿、鋸、鉋
2.繪圖放樣：墨(斗)、尺(規矩) 
 
1.使用工具大致雷同 
2.使用現代精確之測量與放樣器具。
3.新增現代修復機械 
材料取得與
選用 
1.木（福杉） 
2.壓艙磚 
3.石(泉州白) 
4.白灰 
1.大致雷同 
2.結構補強材料 
3.現代修補技術及其材料 
知識性質 封閉－ 
大多是口耳相傳，部分有文字、圖
說與工具之承傳。 
開放與研究 
傳統技術之調查與研究，以及現代
修復技術均持續進行 
傳承方式 師徒制－ 
1.異姓拜師學藝 
2. 家族授業 
學校教育 
營造廠工地實習 
文資法法令 
 
（二）古蹟修復準則與指導方針（以台灣傳統木構架修復為例） 
1.修復準則（建議文） 
（1）.修復是一項高度專門性的維護層級。修復的目的在保存和呈現該文化
資產的整體價值，修復必須以尊重原始材料、證據及價值評估為基礎，
應避免任何的臆測。 
（2）.保存文化資產的主要目的，在保存其價值的真實性與整體性。 
（3）.價值的認知與評估，不應採單一的價值衡量，對於不同時期、族群或
其他方式留存的訊息，都應該被尊重並受到妥善的處理。 
（4）.文化資產應以原地與原狀保存（原狀指外觀與內部的組構系統與方
式）。對於不理解或未經審慎研判的構件、形貌，應保存其現況，不應
隨意更改、更動或以新的設計取代，也不可以為了強求形式統一而改
變原狀。 
（5）.文化資產修復以不重建為原則，拆除不當增建物時，應評估文化資產
價值經審議始得為之，並詳實紀錄原因。 
（6）.修復過程中應盡量避免任何的改變與添加，缺乏依據且未經審慎研判
者，不應被採用。任何的改變與添加，應注意整體協調與可辨識，並
應留下文字、圖像，或在構材上留下紀錄。 
（7）.保存與修復，是一門需要多學科知識的專業行為。保存過程中相關領
域的知識，應以整合性的觀念，共同參與。現代科技（材料、工法等）
只有在必要時，才能在保存修復中應用，並因提出原始的科學性依據，
 9
是以歐美等西方的修復過程來看，嚴謹的歷史空間與傳統建築技術研究與價值判
斷固然是必須，然而後續的修復觀念與準則之建立，才是維護好古蹟的根本重點。 
在台灣古蹟修復界開始重視修復技術同時，是否該思考如何在傳統技術充分
了解之外，也參照國外的現代古蹟修復理論，建構以自身古蹟特殊類型的修復方
法，在現有修復營造體系下可否有傳統建築修復師之工作出現。 
在此，藉由傳統建築匠藝與現代古蹟修復技術之差異探討，傳統建築修復師
除應具有傳統營造匠藝技術之外，也應該具備有現代保存科學與修復理念，在進
行修復工作時掌握到古蹟修復真實性。 
另一方面針對本文的討論，我們對於未來傳統匠藝與現代修復之整合與發展
建議如下： 
1.台灣古蹟的修復，一直由法令的引導以及來自國際修復觀念的加入與反
思。有人說修復概念很簡單，其實是營造方法的反向操作，然而這反向操作一方
面涉及傳統建築與營造技術，而如何反向操作以及後續以科學方式進行保存欲修
復卻是傳統營造中不會教導的。作為一個修復匠師或古蹟修復師最重要的，還是
對於他所修復對象的詳細研究與評估，並依據法令與修復的準則依據，而擬定正
確的修復計畫，這是任何一個未來古蹟修復設計師在參酌傳統工法時，應該全面
考量到的。 
2.事實上，任何一個匠師，以他習以為常的傳統營造方式與技術，來進行一
座傳統木構造建築的修復，都將面臨損壞現有古蹟面貌的危險；未經詳細研究與
評估的修復方法都有可能危及既有的構造與材料。傳統匠師與未來的古蹟修復
師，不可以是某一特定時期的建築風格的狂熱者與擁護者，應該要誠實地去接受
該文化資產現狀，尋找合理可行的修復方式，且堅守最少的干預就是最佳的修復
方式之原則。 
3.目前面臨修復人才不足的問題，許多傳統匠師及其技藝的保存固然重要，
然而如何提供修復理念與保存科學的課程訓練，並增加更多新生代投入傳統建築
的修復領域，如何將古建築修復納入現代教育體系並提供後續一連串的有關古蹟
修復師的認證與證照等等，是台灣未來古蹟的保存與修復的重要工作。 
 
參、參考文獻 
 
1.Aplin, Graeme. Heritage – Identification, Conservation, and Management. Oxford: 
Oxford University Press, 2002. 
2.Burden, Ernest. Illustrated Dictionary of Architectural Preservation. New York: 
McGraw-Hill, 2003. 
3. Feilden, Bernard M. Conservation of Historic Buildings. Oxford: Butterworth, 1994. 
4. John Ruskin. Seven Lamps of Architecture,1849 
5.Stipe, Robert E. A Richer Heritage. Chapel Hill: The University of North Carolina 
Press, 2003. 
6. 傅朝卿翻譯導讀。《國際歷史保存及古蹟維護 – 憲章、宣言、決議文、建
第 46 屆國際城市適居會議 
（46th International Making Cities Livable Conference） 
出席報告 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫(96-2211-E-006-308-)補助 
 
撰寫人：國立成功大學建築系教授  傅朝卿 
 
會議簡介 
國際城市適居會議（International Making Cities Livable Conference）是「國
際城市適居委員會」（International Making Cities Livable Council）一年兩次的國
際性會議。「國際城市適居委員會」是一個國際性、跨領域，由個人與城市組成
的組織，其主要目標乃是想要使我們的城市與社區更適合人類的居住。國際城市
適居會議，始自於 1985 年，已有二十多年的歷史，每年在歐洲與每國各舉辦一
次，已經成為相關領域最重要的活動。每次會議都會吸引世界各城市的官員、建
築、都市、環境及衛生方面的學者參與。 
 
今年（2008年）6月 1日至 5日於美國新墨西哥州聖塔非（Santa Fe）舉行
的為第 46 屆的會議，主題為「真實都市主義：設計健康城市（True Urbanism: 
Designing the Healthy City）」，討論的主要課題包括：真實都市主義的原則
（Principles of true urbanism）、設計健康城市（Designing the Healthy City）、生態
與社會永續性（Ecological & social sustainability）、營建環境的健康衝擊（Health 
impacts of the built environment）、兒童友善鄰里與城市（Child-friendly 
neighborhoods and cities）、永續發展模式（Sustainable development models）、成
長管理議題（Growth management issues）、傳統城鎮規劃與城市價值（Traditional 
town planning & civic values）、將通勤郊區轉型為混合使用都市鄰里
（Transforming commuter suburbs into mixed use urban neighborhood）、社區營造
（Building community）、都市廣場與民主精神（The urban square and the spirit of 
democracy）等。 
 
此次會議有數十篇來自世界各地的論文發表，筆者的論文「再利用文化遺產
以提昇二十一世紀台灣都市品質」（Adaptive Reuse of Cultural Heritage to Enhance 
Urban Quality in the 21st Century Taiwan）被安排於 6月 4日下午的「文化遺產與
都市品質」（Cultural Heritage & Urban Quality）分組，由北卡羅萊納建築系教授
佛瑞德瓊斯（Ferd Johns）擔任主持人。 
 
發表論文介紹 
筆者此次發表的論文題目為「再利用文化遺產以提昇二十一世紀台灣都市品
論，但是在實踐度上卻還沒有達到很好的成效。反觀歐美國家一些城市在對抗能
源及維持居民健康上的努力，仍然有許多可供台灣學習之處。建議台灣日後應該
有更多人參與這樣的會議，公部門與學術界可以共同提出論文，甚且在會場設置
展覽看板，讓更多的國際人士可以看到台灣的努力，也可以對台灣的作法與觀
念，提出建設性的意見。 
 
會議城市 
此次會議舉行的聖塔非（Santa Fe）是現在美國新墨西哥州的首府，不過她
也是美國最古老的首府城市。早在 1609 年冬天，聖塔非就在新西班牙（今日墨
西哥）總督統治之下，成為西南地區政府之所在地。西班牙統治期間，聖塔非除
了是地區性的政治中心之外，也是往印第安人區傳教與拓荒的據點。1821 年，
墨西哥成功的叛離自西班牙，聖塔非曾短暫的限入封閉的狀態。1846 年，新墨
西哥成為美國的一部份，聖塔非成為州政府所在。由於當地原為印第安人之地，
又曾受西班牙長達二百多年的統治，當地傳統建築多數為所謂的西班牙泥磚式樣
（Spanish Pueblo Style）。泥磚屋為印第安人所發展適用於乾熱氣候的建築形式，
西班牙人到達之後，很快的接受此種建築，並且將之與西班牙建築相互融合。1962
年，聖塔非的中央廣場被指定為歷史地標，所有位於周圍的建築在形式上開始受
到必要的管制。行政長官官署（Palace of the Governors）是美國最早的公共建築，
建於 1610年。而城市中的聖米桂爾教堂（San Miguel Church, 1610）被認為是美
國最古老的教堂。會議所舉行的拉芳達旅館（La Fonda）也是泥磚所建，被譽為
是最國最具特色的歷史性旅館。 
 
 
附錄一：論文摘要 
When compared with the large amount of development and construction in the 1950s 
and 1960s, cultural heritage conservation in Taiwan was not an important issue before 
the 1970s. In 1976, the relocation of Lin An-Tai Traditional House Compound for the 
sake of a new road urged both the architectural and cultural circles to care for cultural 
heritage in Taiwan, and it set up a starting point for heritage conservation. In 1982, the 
Cultural Property Act was put into practice in Taiwan. However, in the 1980 and 1990, 
most conservation projects in Taiwan were limited to restoration of the buildings. 
Little attention has been paid on the relationship between cultural heritage and city in 
terms of living amenities.  
 
In response to cultural and sustainable issues of the 21st century, cities in Taiwan have 
been developed along various axes. One of them is the adaptive reuse of cultural 
heritage, especially old buildings, as the strategy for enhancing the urban quality in 
the 21st Century Taiwan. Many of these examples also become the focus of the 
1977 when Lin An-Tai Residence built around 1822 faced the crisis of demolition in 
order to widen a boulevard. The boulevard was widened according to the planned 
schedule while the residence compound was saved and reconstructed in a city park. 
（Figure 1-2）Cultural Property Preservation Ordinance was put into force in 1982 
which was followed by the enactment of the Cultural Property Execution Act in 1984. 
The ordinance and the act became the only legislative basis for the preservation work 
in Taiwan.  Since then, hundreds of historical buildings have been declared "Cultural 
Property" and conservation of these buildings started to be undertaken. However, 
most of the historic buildings were treated as antiques and the activities in them are 
not allowed. Gradually, buildings listed as cultural property become the living dead 
whose role in urban quality is questioned. 
 
  
Figure 1: Lin An-Tai 
Residence  
Figure 2: Demolition of Lin 
An-Tai Residence  
 
1-2. Re-Appreciation of the Adaptive Reuse 
Beginning from the 1980s, preservation of historical buildings merely for the sake of 
historicity is being viewed with increasing skepticism by professionals related to 
building conservation in Taiwan. The argument that today we cannot totally ignore the 
existence of new use in a historical building just because their newness has emerged. 
In the later half of 1990's, the adaptive reuse, which emerged as a new trend in the 
1980s in the West, has developed another new change in Taiwan. The sustainable 
management and spatial experience became a new topic of people's attention; the 
development of the reuse also has some distinctive change; the reconstructions of 
spaces have become more positive. Cultural tourism has become a fashion. The trend 
to reuse and rejuvenate the historic buildings has become irresistible, and many reuse 
projects have become the tourist attractions.  
 
2. Adaptive Reuse of Cultural Heritage as the Strategy for Enhancing the Urban 
Quality 
Influenced by the international trend, the adaptive reuse has become the major 
 
Figure 3: Cultural heritage in the framework of urban quality 
 
The adaptive reuse strategy was soon followed by the private sectors and they started 
to transform old buildings into commercial facilities, especially, restaurant. The scene 
is that a significant phenomenon is emerging in response to cultural and sustainable 
issues of the 21st century. Cities in Taiwan have witnessed the increasing adaptive 
reuses of cultural heritage, especially old buildings, as the strategy for enhancing the 
urban quality in the 21st Century Taiwan. Based on this premise, this paper argues that 
good urban quality should include cultural heritages as its important factors. With the 
contribution of the cultural heritage as the positive urban elements, cities will become 
places for experience, learning and recreation which are important to the quality of a 
city? 
 
2-1. Place of Experience 
Places are important aspects of human experience. Place evokes geography and 
culture and contains history and myth. Place is not only a particular physical 
environment but an idea, a mental construction that captures and directs the human 
relationship to the world. In recent years, personal experience in cities has becomes a 
new trend in the emerging city life. Led by qualified guides, people like to explore the 
history and social-cultural aspects and meaning hidden behind the façade of the 
buildings. The explorations of the historic atmosphere, the testimony of the 
authenticity of the historic story or to be in a historic event venue are among the most 
popular experiences of a modern city. National Trust has stressed that “visiting an 
important building, a beautiful garden, an amazing stretch of countryside or coastline 
can be a life-changing experience - a chance to connect with our emotional and 
spiritual side or to discover new meaning and beauty in the world about us.” 
 
 
2-3. Place of Learning 
In recent years, leisure and learning at the same time become a special character of 
heritage tourism. Cultural heritage is not a space per se, it contains historical, 
geographic, environmental, architectural, artistic and folklore aspects which are the 
main reasons that a cultural heritage is preserved. These aspects and their meanings 
offer a variety of resources for learning. In fact, heritage learning has become one of 
the most important missions in many countries. For example, English Heritage has 
stressed learning at the heart of its new 5-year strategic plan.  They aim to “help 
people understand and learn from the historic environment, to value it, care for it and 
ultimately enjoy it.”  Similarly, the National Trust also is committed to placing 
learning at the heart of everything. They aim to create opportunities for personal 
discovery which can lead to life-changing experiences. 
 
Since different cultural heritages are products associated with various periods, they 
are the best places to learn history since each monument or building is a direct 
evidence of the history, historical event, and historic figures. Cultural heritage is also 
a collective entity of tangible objects and intangible matters including architecture, 
religion, arts, customs which form the core of learning in a city. Visiting the adaptive 
reused cultural heritage will naturally encounter various dimensions of the city. In a 
city full of resources of learning, people not only can learn various knowledge of 
cultural heritage itself, they also can participate in various activities held in these 
adaptive reused buildings. In other words, tourists as well as residents of the 
community can receive benefits from various facilities reused from cultural heritage. 
 
2-4. Place of Recreation 
In many cities, successful reused buildings will become tourist attractions. They not 
only meet the need of the new function, they are likely to form a new place of leisure. 
Experiences have told us that activities held in cultural heritage received more 
attentions than the same activities held in ordinary places. For example, if a cultural 
heritage is adaptive reused as a restaurant, it will attracts people from both local 
people and outside tourists. Former Takao British Consulate and Anping Tree House 
are good example to illustrate this phenomenon. Former Takao British Consulate was 
designed by the British engineer and built around 1865 by the Chinese craftsmen. 
After the war, the building was neglected. It was listed as legal monuments in 1987. 
In 2003, the Cultural Bureau, implementing the Monuments Reuse Project, appointed 
the Kingship Hotel Kaohsiung to manage the consulate. So-called Anping Tree House 
was one the warehouses of a Japanese salt company founded in 1944. The structure of 
original buildings. The historicity of the original buildings and the modernity of the 
additions are now harmoniously co-existed to become a new landmark of the city. The 
meaning for reusing old building is not only for the new opened governmental 
organizations, but also representing a significant milestone of the 21st century 
adaptive reuse in Taiwan.（Figure 8） 
 
Figure 8: National Museum of Taiwan 
Literature , Tainan, Taiwan 
Figure 9: New housing projects in 
Tainan Confucius Temple Cultural 
District 
 
4. Conclusion 
There is no doubt that the success of the The Confucius Temple Cultural District in 
Tainan is a reflection of the back-to-the-city movement which has also had such a 
strong effect on community participation in planning, as clarified by Jonathan Barnett. 
With more and more cultural heritage been adaptive reused, historic environments in 
the city are also regenerated. Many of these examples also become the focus of the 
cultural tourism and consequently promote the identity of the local inhabitants and 
cities. Many cities started to apply the notion of Eco-Museum which integrate the arts, 
humanities, culture, recreation, and business with a systematic improvement of the 
urban quality. When the urban quality is once again enhanced, new investment will 
certainly come back. High quality housing projects constructed by private sectors 
continue to pour into the Confucius Temple Cultural District in Tainan is the best 
example. （Figure 9） 
 
Selected References 
Barnett, Jonathan (1982) An Introduction to Urban Design. New York: Harper & Row, 
Publishers. 
Chen, Hsiu Li (2007) The Splendor of an Old City. Tainan: Tainan City Governmnet. 
Harlprin, Lawrence (1963). Cities. Cambridge: The MIT Press. 
