表 C011                                                      共 2頁  第 2頁 
(二) 計畫英文摘要。（五百字以內） 
Study on preparation of resistant starch and spherulite particle using steam jet cooker (I)  
The objective of this study is to investigate the processing conditions of preparing type 
III resistant starches (RS3) and starch spherulite particles from legume and rice starches by 
steam jet cooking.  Steam jet cooking has been used for years to prepare aqueous starch 
dispersions for non-food application. The high temperature and mechanical shear of the steam 
jet cooking process completely dissolve granular starch. This process can be used to 
investigate the effect of co-jet cooking technology for starch with non-starch materials and to 
prepare new starch-based products and derivatives.  During the previous studies, a laboratory 
scale steam jet cooker has been established and the effect of jet cooking on the properties of 
jet-cooked rice dispersions has investigated.  The goals of this two year project are to modify 
the steam jet cooker and to prepare resistant starch and starch spherulite by steam jet cooking.  
The works of the first year are to modify the steam injection portion and to add cooling 
control portion for cooked starch slurry. The effect of formulation of starch slurry, steam 
temperature and pressure, length of holding tube, and cooling temperature and time on the 
ratio of resistant starch and the formation of starch spherulite with legume and rice starches 
will be investigated.  The work of the second year will be emphasized on the optimization of 
the processing conditions.  The effect of adding RS3 prepared by legume and rice starches 
into Chinese traditional foods and bakery foods on the eating qualities of those products will 
be studied as well. 
Key Words： Steam jet cooking, Resistant starch, Starch spherulite particle.  
與會心得
1. 本次本次出國的主要目的是希望瞭解歐美有關”食品奈米技術”研發與應用
的現況。並參加國際食品奈米技術研討會(International Food Nanotechnology
Conference)。今年研討會的主題為：Nanoscale science and technology of food–
from the lab to the table 共有 9 個分項子題目，分為三段；包括最新及前瞻
應用、法規現況及個案應用報告。講座主要關注的焦點為食品奈米科技安
全性質的評估。雖然國際奈米科技界係以尺寸為 10-100 奈米物質作為研究
的對象。但受限食品是天然物質以及實務的需要澳洲衛生當局已擴大解釋：
認為 300 奈米以下的物質就當視為奈米級的食品列入研究對象。此點與國內
許多的研究已發現無法以 100 奈米來限制食品奈米科技研究範圍相吻合。
2. 美國食品科技學會年會：今年美國食品科技學會年會的大會專題演講著重：
食品產業如何因應全球金融風暴。今年美國食品科技學會年會論文發表的篇
數仍達數千篇。由於電腦科技的進步查閱論文主題及發表場地均可由現場電
腦站協助非常方便。壁報部份今年也要求繳交電子版的壁報及關鍵字因此日
後要再看在網路即可查獲非常方便。
3. 參觀食品產業科技展覽：今年受景氣影響參展家數不如往年。但新增許多來
自中國大陸的廠商參展攤位，只是他們的產品仍有許多可改進發展的空間。
展覽產品仍以食品添加物為最大宗。但也藉機收集食品包裝與工程方面的產
品與資料。其中 Decagon 公司展出的食品等溫吸濕曲線產生器令人印象深
刻，對於食品的水份活性及保存性質的研究可快速的得到資料，節省研究工
作的人力與時間，未來申請計畫可考慮增購以擴大食品保存性質的研究。
攜回資料名稱及內容
1. 華盛頓州立大學的 Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)範本(附件一)。
2. 華盛頓州立大學的 INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT 範本(附件二)。
說明：
一、依據本校教職員出國補助辦法第九條規定「獲得本校補助者必須於回國後十五日內檢據
核銷，並於一個月內繳交出國心得報告一份，逾期未繳交經限期催告仍未繳交者得停權
二年。」
二、本報告請繳交書面資料一份至研發處，並 mail至 research@niu.edu.tw。
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Between
Washington State University, Pullman, WA, USA
And
(Name of University), (Location--City, Country)
WSU Internal Approval Form
DEPARTMENT AND COLLEGE REVIEWS:
Contact Person Date Others as appropriate Date
Name, Chair Date Others as appropriate Date
Name, Dean Date Others as appropriate Date
(more lines may be added if necessary)
Justification and Benefit to WSU for entering into this Agreement
(explanation is limited to this box/do not exceed 1 page with all signatures)
WSU and ___ International Agreement Page 8 of 4
附件二
Contract #_____________
INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT
Between
Washington State University in Pullman, Washington, USA
(Title if Applicable)
And
(Name of Institution, City, State, Country)
(Title if Applicable)
THIS INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (AGREEMENT) is made and entered into by and between WASHINGTON STATE
UNIVERSITY (WSU) and ___ (___) for the purpose of ___. In no event do the parties intend to create under this
AGREEMENT any separate legal or administrative entity.
THEREFORE, IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED THAT:
ARTICLE I. SCOPE OF PARTIES’ CONTRIBUTIONS
Delete this comment: (An example of this article, completed, is available at: http://www.)
A.  WSU’s Contributions:
WSU agrees to perform the following services and/or provide the following personnel, equipment, materials, and
otherwise do the following things that are necessary for and incidental to the performance of this AGREEMENT.
(List Contributions with detail)
(List Contributions with detail)
(List Contributions with detail)
B. ___’sContributions:
____ agrees to perform the following services and/or provide the following personnel, equipment, materials, and
otherwise do the following things that are necessary for and incidental to the performance of this AGREEMENT.
(List contributions with detail)
(List contributions with detail)
(List contributions with detail)
WSU and ___ International Agreement Page 10 of 4
The parties to this AGREEMENT will each maintain books, records, documents and other evidence which
sufficiently and properly reflect all direct and indirect costs expended by either party in the performance of the
services and work contemplated by AGREEMENT. These records will be subject to inspection, review or audit by
personnel of parties, other personnel duly authorized by either party, the Office of the State Auditor, and federal
officials so authorized by law. In instances when access to any WSU student records is required, such request
will be subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) procedures. Request related to access of
any WSU student records must be made in writing to the WSU Registrar’s office.  Al records related to this 
AGREEMENT will be retained for six years after expiration of this AGREEMENT.
Records and other documents, in any medium, furnished by one party to this AGREEMENT to the other party, will
remain the property of the furnishing party, unless otherwise agreed. The receiving party will not disclose or
make available this material to any third parties without first giving notice to the furnishing party and giving it a
reasonable opportunity to respond. Each party will utilize reasonable security procedures and protections to
prevent erroneous disclosure of records and documents provided by the other party to third parties.
ARTICLE IV. RIGHTS IN DATA AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Any data or intellectual property which originates from this AGREEMENT will be owned by the party creating such
data or intellectual property. Data will include, but not be limited to, reports, documents, pamphlets,
advertisements, books magazines, surveys, studies, computer programs, films, tapes, and/or sound
reproductions. Ownership includes the right to copyright, patent, register, and the ability to transfer these
rights.
WSU and ___ International Agreement Page 12 of 4
ARTICLE XII. WAIVER
A failure by either party to exercise its rights under this AGREEMENT shall not preclude that party from
subsequent exercise of such rights and shall not constitute a waiver of any other rights under this AGREEMENT
unless stated to be such in a writing signed by an authorized representative of the party and attached to the
original AGREEMENT.
ARTICLE XIII. SEVERABILITY
If any provision of this AGREEMENT or any provision of any document incorporated by reference shall be held
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this AGREEMENT which can be given effect without
the invalid provision, if such remainder conforms to the requirements of applicable law and the fundamental
purpose of this AGREEMENT, and to this end the provisions of this AGREEMENT are declared to be severable.
ARTICLE XIV. ALL WRITINGS CONTAINED HEREIN
This AGREEMENT contains all the terms and conditions agreed upon by the parties. No other understandings,
oral or otherwise, regarding the subject matter of this AGREEMENT shall be deemed to exist or to bind any of the
parties hereto.
ARTICLE XV. INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT MANAGEMENT
The AGREEMENT MANAGER for each of the parties shall be responsible for the daily operation, all
communications and billings regarding the performance of this AGREEMENT.
WSU and ___ International Agreement / Internal Approval Form Page 1 of 1
INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT
Between
Washington State University, Pullman, WA, USA
And
(Name of University), (Location--City, Country)
WSU Internal Approval Form
DEPARTMENT AND COLLEGE REVIEWS:
Contact Person Date Name, Area Finance Officer Date
Name, Chair Date Name, Chancellor Date
(Urban Campus)
Name, Dean Date Others as appropriate Date
(more lines may be added if necessary)
Justification and Benefit to WSU for entering into this Agreement
(explanation is limited to this box/do not exceed 1 page with all signatures)
