I 
中文摘要 
    這個計畫是利用分子動力學方法在背光模組中的導光板上進行亂數網點的分佈設計，這
是結合不同的數值技巧去設計最佳化的網點密度分佈以滿足 LCD 顯示器之均勻亮度的需
求。此研究所建議的演算法是將設計區域分割成細部等大小的晶格區域，而各區域內的網點
密度能夠各自調整以符合光源型式及其放置位置。另外，在晶格間的網點位置會依其各個晶
格內的網點密度執行一可變截斷距離，此可變 r-cut技術讓整個區域的網點疏密分佈能達高梯
度的變化。最後，本研究亦發展一項平均力控制參數技術讓網點分佈在晶格邊界間皆能達均
勻分佈。幾個圖示例子能證明分子動力學網點產生演算法的實際應用性。 
 
英文摘要 
This technique employs the molecular dynamics method to generate random dot patterns for light 
guides designed for backlight systems. The proposed approach combines various numerical 
techniques and is designed to optimize the dot density distribution in order to satisfy the uniform 
luminance requirements demanded by LCD displays. In the proposed algorithm, the total domain is 
divided into a prescribed number of cells whose dot densities can be individually adjusted in order 
to fine-tune the luminance conditions in accordance with the light source position and type. In 
addition, a variable truncation distance is implemented in each cell according to the dot density of 
that cell. This variable r-cut technique localizes the repulsive force effects acting within each cell in 
order that a high dot density gradient can be achieved in the overall dot distribution. Finally, an 
average force control technique is developed to ensure the uniformity of the dot distribution as it 
passes across the cell boundaries. Several illustrative examples are provided to demonstrate the 
robustness of the proposed MD dot generation algorithm. 
 
關鍵詞 
亂數網點分佈、分子動力學法、導光板、背光模組、網點圖案。 
 
Keywords 
Random dot distribution, Molecular dynamics method, Light guide, Backlight, Dot pattern 
 
Generating random and nonoverlapping dot patterns for liquid-crystal
display backlight light guides using molecular-dynamics method
Jee-Gong Changa
National Center for High-Performance Computing, No. 21, Nan-Ke Third Road, Hsin-Shi, Tainan,
Republic of China
Ming-Horng Sub
Department of Fire Science, Wu Feng Institute of Technology, Chiayi 621, Taiwan, Republic of China
Cheng-Tai Lee and Chi-Chuan Hwangc
Department of Engineering Science, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, Taiwan,
Republic of China
Received 20 June 2005; accepted 21 October 2005; published online 14 December 2005
This paper employs the molecular-dynamics method to generate random-dot patterns for light
guides designed for backlight systems. The proposed approach combines various numerical
techniques and is designed to optimize the dot-density distribution in order to satisfy the uniform
luminance requirements demanded by liquid-crystal displays. In the proposed algorithm, the total
domain is divided into a prescribed number of cells whose dot densities can be individually adjusted
in order to fine tune the luminance conditions in accordance with the light source position and type.
In addition, a variable truncation distance is implemented in each cell according to the dot density
of that cell. This variable r-cut technique localizes the repulsive force effects acting within each cell
in order that a high-dot-density gradient can be achieved in the overall dot distribution. Finally, an
average force control technique is developed to ensure the uniformity of the dot distribution as it
passes across the cell boundaries. Several illustrative examples are provided to demonstrate the
robustness of the proposed molecular-dynamics dot-generation algorithm. © 2005 American
Institute of Physics. DOI: 10.1063/1.2138802
INTRODUCTION
The light guide is one of the key components in a back-
light module and is responsible for redirecting the light emit-
ted by a light-emitting diode LED or cold cathode fluores-
cence lamp CCFL positioned at the edge of the backlight to
the upper surface of the backlight, where it illuminates the
display panel. The redirection ability1 of the light guide is
governed by the design of the diffuser dots or microstructure
printed on its base. The distribution of the diffuser dots and
the design of the microstructure play a key role in ensuring
that the uniform luminance requirements of a liquid-crystal
display are satisfied.
In general, dot distribution design methods can be clas-
sified into two basic categories depending on the geometric
characteristics of the dot patterns they produce, namely,
regular-dot patterns or random-dot patterns. In the regular-
dot-generation approach, the dots are aligned in rows and
columns separated by constant pitches. During the optical
optimization phase, the dot radii are adjusted until a uniform
luminance condition is achieved.2 The main advantage of
this method lies in the simplicity of its design and optical
optimization procedures. However, the Morie3 interference
effect is readily produced when this technique is employed
since the structure through which the light passes is too regu-
lar. To address this problem, researchers have developed
various random-dot-generation methods.4–6 However, these
methods can lead to the overlapping of individual dots at
high dot densities,7,8 which is not only undesirable in itself
but also complicates the subsequent optical optimization pro-
cedure.
The molecular-dynamics MD method is a powerful
tool designed to provide deep insights into nanoscience9 and
nanotechnology10,11 phenomena. The MD method treats the
atomic interaction between two atoms as a simple spring and
damping system. The restoring force of the spring exerts an
attraction force when the distance between two atoms ex-
ceeds their equilibrium distance and exerts a repulsive force
when the distance between them is less than their equilib-
rium distance. The MD concept can also be applied to the
random-dot-generation process in the optical design of a
light guide by treating each individual dot in the pattern as an
atom.5 In this approach, the nonoverlap condition is obtained
by considering each dot to be subjected to a repulsive force
exerted by each of its neighbors. Meanwhile, the damping
term is used to accelerate the convergence of the dot pattern
to the final optimal distribution. Ide et al.6 were the research-
ers to apply the MD method to the random-dot pattern gen-
eration of a light guide. Their results indicated that the re-
sultant random-dot pattern provided a highly uniform
luminance over the display region. However, in their inves-
tigation, a nonoverlap condition was obtained simply by dy-
namically relaxing a more uniform random distribution gen-
erated by low-discrepancy sequences12 LDS rather than by
aAuthor to whom correspondence should be addressed; electronic mail:
changjg@nchc.org.tw
bElectronic mail: mhsu@mail.wfc.edu.tw
cElectronic mail: chchwang@mail.ncku.edu.tw
JOURNAL OF APPLIED PHYSICS 98, 114910 2005
0021-8979/2005/9811/114910/8/$22.50 © 2005 American Institute of Physics98, 114910-1
Downloaded 09 Mar 2006 to 140.116.209.11. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jap.aip.org/jap/copyright.jsp
can be individually adjusted in order to optimize the lumi-
nance conditions over the entire display region. As discussed
below, the force control parameter ck is dependent on the dot
density. In each cell, the force control parameter is given by
ck =
− ln f re,k
rcut,k
, 4
where f re,k is the residual force at the r-cut distance in each
cell k. It is noted that f re,k tends to zero when rij is larger than
or equal to the r-cut distance rcut,k. Furthermore, the larger
the residual force, the larger the repulsive force between the
atoms. Clearly, two dots will be pushed further apart when
they are subjected to a larger repulsive force. In general, a
nonzero set of f re,k is used to consider the dot size in practice.
In the present simulations, a high residual force is generally
only adopted when the dot size is very large and it is neces-
sary to push neighboring dots further away in order to pre-
vent them from overlapping. During the force calculations,
the neighboring atoms of each atom are identified using the
Verlet list technique,13,14 which reduces the n2 search to an n
search, and the force control parameter is determined accord-
ing to their distance.
As described above, the proposed MD dot-generation
algorithm separates the domain of interest into a prescribed
number of individual cells in order to enhance the flexibility
of the dot-density adjustment procedure. In one cell, k, the
dot density is defined as
Dk =
Adot
Acell
=
i
mk r¯i
2
Acell
, 5
where mk is the total number of dots in cell k and r¯i is the
radius of the individual dots. In the current approach, each
cell is considered to be rectangular and it is assumed that the
dot radius remains constant throughout the domain. The light
energy emitted from the upper surface of the light guide is
proportional to the density of the dots printed on its lower
surface. Therefore, the dot-density parameter defined in Eq.
5 enables the construction of a “proportional” optimization
algorithm which obtains a uniform luminance condition by
increasing or decreasing the dot density over the entire do-
main in accordance with the low or high luminance obtained
from the output of the backlight.
Although the cell division approach permits the dot den-
sity to be fine tuned to meet the uniform luminance require-
ments of the backlight, it is difficult to ensure a dot distribu-
tion uniformity across the cell boundary. Therefore, an
average force control parameter is developed, as illustrated
in Fig. 2. Before entering into a detailed description of the
dot distribution across the boundary, it is appropriate to dis-
cuss the r-cut parameter established for the dots within each
cell.
In order to ensure that all of the dots in one cell can
interact with all of their neighboring dots, the total area en-
closed by the r-cut radius Ar, defined as the reactive area,
should extend beyond the boundaries of the individual cell.
In the limiting case, the smallest reactive area Armin,k in cell
k is given by
Armin,k =
Acell
acmk
for ac = 1, 6
where ac is the area correct value. Equation 6 provides the
minimum r-cut value. The actual r-cut value can then be
obtained from
rcut,k = l	im r¯i2Dkacmk , 7
where l is a multiplier. Equation 7 indicates that the r-cut
value is large when the dot-density parameter is small and
conversely is small when the dot-density parameter is large.
For this reason, the present study refers to the task of speci-
fying appropriate r-cut values as the variable r-cut technique.
To ensure that the dot distribution remains constant
across each cell boundary, this study introduces an average
force control technique. Consider the dot patterns in cells A
and B shown in Fig. 2. It can be seen that the dot density in
cell A is less than that in cell B. Therefore, the rcut,k value in
cell cell A, rcut,A, is greater than that in cell B, rcut,B, and the
values of the force control parameter in cell A, cA, and in cell
B, cB, are different. Applying the average force control tech-
nique, the force control parameters in cells A and B are av-
eraged when the region enclosed by the rcut,A of a dot lies
outside of its cell boundary A, i.e.,
cboundary =
cA + cB
2
, 8
where cboundary is the force control parameter for the bound-
ary dot.
The MD algorithm developed in this study differs from
the conventional MD algorithm13,14 in several important
ways. In the traditional MD algorithm, the atomic force act-
ing between any two atoms has the form of an action and
reaction pair. However, in the present algorithm, the atomic
force acting between any two atoms may not be an action
and reaction pair, particularly when the atoms are located in
a cell whose dot density is different from that of the neigh-
boring cells. This situation can be seen in Fig. 2, for ex-
ample, in which the atom in cell A located at the center of the
indicated circle experiences an atomic force exerted by the
atom in cell B lying at the center of the circle. However, the
same atom in cell B does not experience the atomic force
exerted by the atom in cell A. This difference in the present
algorithm compared to the conventional MD algorithm case
arises primarily as a result of the variation of the r-cut dis-
tances in cells A and B. In addition, an extra consideration in
the present simulations compared to traditional MD simula-
tions is the need to account for the variable r-cut values in
different cells when implementing the Verlet list technique.
In the conventional MD algorithm, the Verlet list need not be
updated every time step since the movement of each atom
within each time step is slow. In other words, simply updat-
ing at a prescribed time interval is sufficient. However, in the
present algorithm, the Verlet list must be updated not only at
a fixed time interval as in the conventional case but also
each time a dot migrates out of its original cell. The addi-
tional computation required in the present algorithm is seen
114910-3 Chang et al. J. Appl. Phys. 98, 114910 2005
Downloaded 09 Mar 2006 to 140.116.209.11. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jap.aip.org/jap/copyright.jsp
Comparing the results of Fig. 3c, which show the final
converged dot distribution, with the intermediate results pre-
sented in Fig. 3b, it is found that the original nonuniform
density changes across the column boundaries are signifi-
cantly smoother in the final state. Figure 3d presents an
enlarged view of the dot distribution within the area marked
by the dashed square in Fig. 3c and confirms the uniformity
of the dot distribution across the cell boundaries. This region
contains 66 cell divisions. It is observed that the dot dis-
tribution is denser in the upper-right and lower-left regions
and sparser in the upper-left and lower-right regions. It is
clear that the dot distribution changes smoothly from bottom
to top, left to right, and along the inclined 45° directions. The
results confirm that the original random-dot distribution pro-
duced using a conventional random number generator is suc-
cessfully transformed into a uniform dot distribution by the
proposed MD algorithm. Using the proposed approach, it is
unnecessary to regulate the data to a minimum nonoverlap
condition to ensure convergence of the dot distribution.5,6
This represents a major difference between the present algo-
rithm and previous approaches.5,6
Figure 4a shows the dot-density variation of the cells
in the central region of the domain i.e., row 7 across col-
umns 1–21 at the initial, intermediate, and final stages of the
convergence procedure. Figure 4b summarizes the initial
dot densities of these 21 cells and also of the neighboring
cells in rows 6, 8, and 9. Figure 4c illustrates the final dot
distribution across the cells within this 421 cell region.
Figure 4a shows that the final dot densities of the cells in
row 7 of columns 2–5 and 7–9 remain relatively unchanged
during the convergence procedure. This implies that the dot
regulation activity of the MD algorithm takes place almost
exclusively within the individual cells, i.e., very few of the
dots from one cell are dragged into a neighboring cell during
the regulation procedure. However, it is observed that the
final dot densities of the cells in row 7 of columns 1, 6, 10,
and 11–21 are significantly different from the initial dot den-
sities. This is particularly noticeable in columns 11–13, 17,
19, and 21, in which the final dot densities are approximately
twice that of the initial dot densities. The reason for this large
variation in the dot density is that the difference between the
dot densities of the cells in row 7 and those of the adjacent
cells is very high in the original random distribution. For
example, the original dot density of the cells in columns
11–13 in row 7 is 14% see Fig. 4b, while the cell to the
left of cell 11 in row 7 has a density of 70% and the cell to
the right of cell 13 in row 7 has a density of 56%. Further-
more, the dot density above and below the region enclosed
by cells 11–13 in rows 7 and 8 is 56%. During the conver-
gence procedure, dots in the higher density areas will enter
the lower-density regions due to the uniform dot distribution
constraint imposed at the cell boundaries. Therefore, the dot
densities of cells 11–13 increase in the final state, while those
of the neighboring cells decrease. A similar explanation ex-
FIG. 4. a Dot-density variation in initial, intermediate, and final stages for cells in row 7 and columns 1–21; b initial dot density for cells in rows 6–9 and
columns 1–21; and c final dot distribution for cells in rows 6–9 and columns 1–21.
114910-5 Chang et al. J. Appl. Phys. 98, 114910 2005
Downloaded 09 Mar 2006 to 140.116.209.11. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jap.aip.org/jap/copyright.jsp
localize the repulsive force acting within each cell such that
a high-dot-density gradient can be achieved in the overall dot
distribution. Finally, the average force control parameter
technique is used to ensure that the dot distribution remains
uniform across the cell boundaries. Several examples of
random-dot distributions, e.g., typical dot distributions for
CCFL and LED backlights, have been presented to demon-
strate the robustness of the proposed dot-generation algo-
rithm. The present algorithm can also be applied to the dis-
tribution design of other optical elements, such as microlens
and microprismatic and microroof structures, located either
at the base of the light guide or at its two sides.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors gratefully acknowledge the support pro-
vided to this research by the National Science Council, Re-
public of China, under Grant No. NSC 94-2212-E-492-001.
1J.-G. Chang, Y.-B. Fang, and C.-F. Lin, Opt. Eng. Bellingham to be
published.
FIG. 6. Typical dot distribution for LED backlight with: a 6291 dots, 1721 cells; b 11 244 dots, 2530 cells; and c 21 794 dots, 2530 cells.
114910-7 Chang et al. J. Appl. Phys. 98, 114910 2005
Downloaded 09 Mar 2006 to 140.116.209.11. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jap.aip.org/jap/copyright.jsp
