Investigation of pyrolysis, micropore structure, and gas separation properties of 
carbon molecular sieve membranes  
NSC 97-2221-E-253-003 
Kuo-Sung Liao a, Chien-Chieh Hu b* 
a
 R&D Center for Membrane Technology and Department of Chemical Engineering 
b Department of Chemical and Material Engineering, Nanya Institute of Technology 
Email: cehu@nanya.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT  
  Defect-free carbon molecular sieve 
membranes were formed by pyrolysis of a 
polyimide precursor. The micropore structures 
of the carbon molecular sieve membranes were 
studied for different pyrolysis temperatures and 
atmospheres. From attenuated total reflectance 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, 
wide-angle X-ray diffraction, and density 
measurements on these materials, it appears 
that pyrolysis under vacuum and at high 
temperature increases the degree of 
carbonization and creates smaller micropores. 
Differential thermoanalysis and 
thermogravimetry coupled to mass 
spectroscopy were performed to understand the 
thermal stability and pyrolysis phenomena. The 
results indicated that, between 400 and 600°C, 
micropores were created by the formation of 
large-molecule volatile fragments and then, 
between 460 and 1000°C, those micropores 
shrunk due to liberation of small-molecule 
volatile products. Microporosity of the carbon 
molecular sieve membranes was studied using 
gas permeation, positron annihilation lifetime 
spectroscopy, and analysis of carbon dioxide 
adsorption isotherms via density functional 
theory. It was found that pyrolysis under 
vacuum at high temperature produced large 
numbers of small micropores within a narrow 
pore-size distribution. The permeability and 
solubility data showed a strong dependence on 
microporosity. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
  In recent decades there have been rapid 
developments in membrane gas-separation 
techniques because, compared to conventional 
gas-separation methods like cryogenic 
distillation and sorption, membrane separations 
offer flexible designs together with 
compactness and energy efficiency. As a result, 
membrane-based gas separations have become 
competitive in both performance and cost. In 
most commercial gas-separation applications 
membranes are polymers, and such polymeric 
materials should be highly permeable as well as 
highly selective. Although the inherent 
segmental flexibility of polymeric membranes 
makes them economical to prepare, that 
flexibility also limits both their discriminating 
ability for similarly sized penetrants and their 
performance stability under adverse conditions. 
For instance, inorganic membranes show 
extremely attractive permeation performance 
and give selectivities that are about ten times 
higher than conventional polymeric materials. 
Moreover, these materials tend to be much less 
affected by aggressive feeds. It is clear that, to 
improve gas-separation performance, attention 
will focus mainly on the development of novel 
inorganic membranes. Among molecular 
sieving materials, carbon molecular sieve 
membranes (CMSMs) show attractive 
characteristics; for example, CMSMs have 
been successfully manufactured in different 
configurations with higher permeabilities than 
zeolite membranes at the same selectivity 
values. Although there are considerable 
published data concerning the effects of 
pyrolysis conditions, precursor chemical 
structure, and post-treatment on gas-separation 
properties of CMSMs, there are few data on 
micropore structure. Because fundamental 
understanding of micropore structure 
development in CMSMs is still lacking, this 
work aims to systematically study the 
development of micropores in CMSMs by 
performing precursor pyrolysis under different 
conditions. We also used permeation and 
sorption testing to study the effects of 
micropore structure on gas separation. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL 
The repeating unit of polyimide used for 
annihilation lifetimes of carbon molecular sieve 
membranes were determined by detecting 
prompt g-rays (1.28 MeV) from the nuclear 
decay that accompanies the emission of a 
positron from a 22Na radioisotope and the 
subsequent annihilation g-rays (0.511 MeV). A 
fast–fast coincidence circuit of positron 
annihilation lifetime (PAL) spectrometer with a 
lifetime resolution of 260 ps from a 60Co 
source was used to record all PAL spectra. 
Each spectrum was collected to a ﬁxed total 
count of 2´106. All the PAL spectra were 
analyzed by a ﬁnite-term lifetime analysis 
method using the maximum entropy method. 
A gas permeation analyzer (Yanaco GTR10) 
was used to measure pure-gas permeability 
coefficients for the precursor and CMSMs to 
O2 and N2. The tests were carried out under 
isothermal conditions at 35°C (±0.5°C). The 
usual unit of permeability (P) is the barrer 
[10–10 (cm3 (STP) cm)/(cm2 s cm Hg)]. Ideal 
selectivities were calculated as the ratio of 
permeability coefficients: 
B
A
BA P
P
=/a  (3) 
where PA and PB are the permeability 
coefficients of pure gases A and B. Permeation 
tests using CO2, CH4, C2H6, and C3H8 were 
also performed to probe the critical dimension 
dC. A microbalance (Cahn model D202 
microbalance) was used to determine the 
solubility coefficient S. The permeability 
coefficient can be written as the product of the 
diffusion coefficient and the solubility 
coefficient: 
SDP ×=  (4) 
so the diffusion coefficient was determined by 
rearranging (4): 
S
PD =  (5) 
For each membrane, permeation and sorption 
experiment were carried out on four samples 
for each gas. Therefore, the permeation 
parameters (P, S) were obtained with 
coefficient of variation ranging from 5 to 15%. 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
Pyrolysis of polymeric precursor 
Pyrolysis is frequently used in the 
production of CMSMs because it results in 
products that have microporosities of molecular 
dimensions; such small micropores are 
responsible for the molecular sieve 
performance of CMSMs. During pyrolysis of a 
precursor, byproducts of different volatilities 
are released, causing a large weight loss. The 
evolution of these byproducts was monitored 
by DTA-TG-MS and the results are shown in 
Figs. 2 and 3. Fig. 2 shows small-molecule 
volatile products appearing at 2 amu 
(hydrogen), 16 amu (methane), 18 amu (water), 
28 amu (nitrogen or carbon monoxide), and 44 
amu (carbon dioxide). Between 25 and 460°C 
almost no volatile products appear other than 
water. This suggests that the small weight loss 
during the initial stages of pyrolysis is due to 
water loss. Fig. 2 shows that CH4 (16 amu), CO 
(28 amu), and CO2 (44 amu) are released 
around 550°C; these molecules are formed by 
the degradation of imide and benzene rings 
[34]. The inset in Fig. 2 shows that release of 
hydrogen becomes significant after 700°C, 
where the precursor degraded distinctly to form 
an amorphous carbon material.  
 
Fig. 2. DTA-TG-MS results for precursor 
membrane over the range 5–50 amu. The 
inset shows results in the range 0–5 amu. 
 
 Fig. 3 shows that all large-molecule volatile 
fragments are produced between 400 and 
600°C. This suggests that, during 
low-temperature pyrolysis, polyimide chains 
simply break into large-molecule fragments. 
Generally, the pore structure of CMSMs is 
heterogeneous, as it is comprised of large pores 
and ultramicropores. For polyimide-derived 
CMSMs, it can be concluded that the 
production of large-molecule volatile 
fragments at low pyrolysis temperatures favors 
the formation of large pores. However, the 
dimension (dC), often referred to as an 
ultramicropore, is thought to allow molecular 
sieving of gas molecules. According to one 
study [30], we can estimate the likely scale of 
dl in CMSMs by assuming the ratio of known 
nitrogen diffusion coefficients of carbon to type 
4A zeolites (2.32(10–10) cm2 s–1 at 35°C) is 
proportional to the ratio of the square of their 
dl values:  
4A zeolite
2
2
4A zeoliteN
N
)(
)(
]D[
]D[
2
2
l
l
d
d carboncarbon »  (6) 
where (dl)zeolite 4A ~ 11.4Å. Results for the 
diffusion coefficients and dl of the four 
CMSMs appear in Table 2. 
 
Table 2. Nitrogen permeability, solubility, 
diffusivity, and characteristic dimension for 
CMSMs. 
P S D´108 (dl)CMSM 
Membrane Barrer 
atmcm
(STP)cm
3
3
× sec
cm2  Å 
V550 79.4 4.3 14.0 280.0 
N550 89.9 3.6 19.0 326.2 
V700 20.7 7.6 2.1 108.8 
N700 24.1 8.3 2.2 111.0 
 
Table 2 shows that the dl of CMSMs 
decreased in the order N550 > V550 > V700 > 
N700. Undoubtedly, higher pyrolysis 
temperatures produce CMSMs with lower dl 
values, especially for CMSMs prepared in 
vacuum. As in Figs. 2 and 3, the formation of 
large-molecule volatile fragments caused 
bigger dl values, but the release of 
small-molecule volatile products decreased dl. 
In this work, the dl value was much bigger than 
in a previous study. According to other reports 
[37, 38], oxygen undergoes irreversible 
chemisorption on carbon membranes, so these 
differences in dl may be due primarily to 
differences in the effects of aging in the 
presence of oxygen and nitrogen. For a fixed 
membrane thickness, a higher dl means a lower 
dC value in the direction of diffusion; therefore, 
resistance to diffusion decreases when dl 
increases. Consequently, one can assume that 
high permeability coefficients occur in CMSMs 
that have large values for dl.  
To estimate the dTV dimensions of a CMSM, 
carbon dioxide equilibrium sorption 
measurements may be used. Adsorption 
isotherms were analyzed by software utilizing 
concepts from density functional theory to 
extract the pore-size distributions of CMSMs; 
the results appear in Fig. 5. This figure 
basically shows that the dTV dimension has a 
multimodal distribution; nevertheless, the 
important dTV dimensions fall between 3.5 and 
8 Å because these dimensions are meaningful 
for gas separation. The number of pores with 
characteristic dimensions in the range 3.5–8 Å 
increases when the final pyrolysis temperature 
increased from 550 to 700°C. The release of 
small-molecule volatile products at the higher 
temperature (700°C) promotes formation of 
more pores with dTV in the range 3.5–8 Å. 
Further, CMSMs formed in a nitrogen 
atmosphere show a dTV distribution that is 
broader and has a higher pore volume than 
those formed in vacuum. Note that 
gas-molecule diffusion in CMSMs derived 
from a nitrogen atmosphere will be much 
easier. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 5. Pore distributions derived from 273 K 
CO2 isotherms of CMSMs prepared under 
different conditions: (a) vacuum at 550 or 
700°C; (b) nitrogen atmosphere at 550 or 
700°C. 
Langmuir isotherm is commonly used to define 
sorption isotherms for gases in porous 
molecular sieving materials. The adsorption 
isotherms for N2 and O2 up to 28 atm on 
CMSMs are presented graphically in Fig. 7. 
These are all of type I. Nitrogen (Fig. 7b) is 
weakly adsorbed compared to oxygen (Fig. 7a), 
possibly because oxygen has a smaller kinetic 
diameter and more affinity for CMSMs than 
nitrogen. But in both cases the adsorption 
capabilities increase substantially when the 
polyimide precursor is converted into a 
microporous amorphous carbon material. 
Further, the adsorption capacities of CMSMs 
increase strongly with pyrolysis temperature; 
however, the effects of pyrolysis atmosphere on 
adsorption capacity were negligible. Apparently, 
pyrolysis alters the number of pores and the 
pore-size distribution, and the formation of 
micropores by pyrolysis plays an important 
role in altering the adsorption capacity of 
CMSMs. Specifically, CMSMs derived from 
high-temperature pyrolysis exhibit high 
adsorption capacities with high permeability. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 7. Sorption isotherms for precursor 
membrane and CMSMs derived from 
pyrolysis under different sorption 
atmospheres: (a) oxygen; (b) nitrogen. 
Transport properties for O2/N2 were studied 
as functions of pyrolysis temperature and 
atmosphere; results are shown in Fig. 8. The 
precursor membrane and the CMSMs exhibit 
quite different separation properties, which can 
be attributed to their structural differences. 
CMSMs derived from high-temperature (V700 
and N700) pyrolysis have large numbers of 
small pores, as shown in Figs. 5 and 6, leading 
to low permeability and high selectivity. In 
contrast, low-temperature pyrolyzed CMSMs 
exhibit high permeability and low selectivity. It 
may be the case that, in addition to increasing 
ultramicropore size and size distribution, 
low-temperature pyrolysis induces formation of 
large-molecule volatile fragments. Referring to 
Fig. 6, CMSMs pyrolyzed in a nitrogen 
atmosphere have more and larger micropores. 
This suggests that CMSMs pyrolyzed in 
nitrogen should exhibit high permeability and 
low selectivity when compared to pyrolysis 
under vacuum. 
 
 
Fig. 8. Permeation results for precursor 
membrane and CMSMs. 
 
According to the sorption-diffusion 
mechanism, the ideal selectivity can be 
expressed, as in (4), as a ratio of diffusion and 
sorption coefficients for gases A and B in 
CMSMs. The ideal selectivity data are 
presented in Table 5. The table shows that 
solubility selectivities (SO2/SN2) are close to 
one, suggesting that selectivities of CMSMs 
are controlled by diffusive selectivities. It is 
obvious that the micropore structure, tuned by 
pyrolysis conditions, dominate the gas 
selectivities of CMSMs. 
 
 
 
 出席 AMS 5報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
撰 寫 人：胡蒨傑 
會議日程：98.7.12~98.7.14 
 
南亞技術學院化材系 
中華民國九十八年七月 
 
 
論文以壁報形式發表，本次會議探討之主題包含 drinking and waste water 
applications、facilitated transport membranes、gas separation and pervapioration、
inorganic membranes、membrane fouling、 transport mechanism in membrane、
biochemical applications、energy applications-fuel cell、hybrid and novel processes、
membrane preparation and modification，大會中與氣體分離和滲透蒸發有關之論文超
過 80篇，其內容涵蓋高分子與無機薄膜，整體而言無機薄膜之論文數量大幅增加，
這代表未來薄膜發展之趨勢將偏向無機分子篩薄膜，目前高分子薄膜研發重心在於
應用合成或改質技術，控制高分子之分子結構已獲得高選擇性與高產能之氣體分離
薄膜，無機分子篩薄膜則著重於 zeolite 與碳分子篩薄膜之開發，此外有機/無機複
合薄膜易受到相當程度之注視，目前薄膜氣體分離之應用偏重於氫氣及二氧化碳分
離，這表示氫氣與二氧化碳分離在未來將有極大之發展空間。本次會議除學界外亦
結合業界的技術研究團隊，因此使得發表的研發成果更趨實際且廣泛，會議中之演
講均引起熱烈的討論，經由演講者與聽講者的意見交流，提出許多新的思維與研究
方向，使與會者對於目前薄膜程序的設計與開發有更新的想法與了解，亦有助於拓
展個人的研究視野。大會安排 2個時段海報論文發表，與會者可就個人的興趣與論
文作者針對研究內容進行討論，如此可借鏡他人寶貴的研究經驗與成果提升個人研
究能力。 
    本次會議在 Kobel舉辦，會場設於 Kobe Potopia Hotel，主辦單在議程之安排非
常用心，整體而論這是一次非常成功之國際研討會，最後，感謝國科會提供經費讓
個人能有機會參與本次國際性研討會。 
morphology and composition. FTIR-ATR spectra were 
obtained with a Perkin Elmer Spectrum One FTIR 
equipped with a multiple internal reflectance apparatus. 
X-ray photo spectroscopy (XPS) analysis was conducted 
with a Thermo VG-Scientific Sigma Probe ESCA (British) 
using an Al Ka line as a radiation source. 
Ⅲ. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
  Table 1 presents the effect of crosslinker content on 
surface composition. The Si/O and O/C ratios increase with 
crosslinker content. One can assume that the amount of 
silicon at the surface remains unchanged during the 
reaction process induced by UV/ozone because silicon does 
not form species that are volatile at room temperature. The 
increase in the Si/O and O/C ratios can be attributed to a 
reduction in the amount of carbon and an increase in the 
amount of oxygen within the converted surface film. The 
increasing of crosslinker seemed favorable for the 
formation of silicon oxide layer.  
10 20 30 40 50
200
400
600
800
1000
Crosslinker (wt%)
O
2 
pe
rm
ea
bi
lit
y
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
O
2/
N
2 
se
le
ct
iv
ity
 
Fig. 1 Permeability and solubility of PDMS membranes as 
a function of crosslinker content. 
Fig. 1 presents permeability and solubility of PDMS 
membranes as a function of crosslinker content. Oxygen 
permeability decreased with crosslinker content but the 
selectivity almost gets the same value. The lower 
permeability is the most likely the result of crosslinking 
effect while the higher amount of crosslinker is added. Fig. 
2 shows a plot of the crosslinking contents for PDMS 
membranes after UV/ozone treatment versus permeability 
and selectivity. It is clear indicated that PDMS membrane 
contain 30 wt% crosslinker has the best selectivity and the 
selectivity increased from 2 to 5. However, there is a 
significant reduce in permeability.  
10 20 30 40 50
100
200
300
400
500
Crosslinker (wt%)
O
2 
pe
rm
ea
bi
lit
y
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
O
2/
N
2 
se
le
ct
iv
ity
 
Fig. 2 Permeability and solubility of PDMS membranes 
treated by VU/ozone. 
Ⅳ. CONCLUSION 
  We get PDMS membranes with thin silicon oxide like 
layer by UV/ozone treatment in this work. These 
membranes have excellent gas separation performance 
compared with other polymeric membranes. 
 
