2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
雷射凸點與類鑽薄膜對下世代硬碟片磨潤特性之研究
Tribology studied of laser bump and diamond like carbon for next
generation hard disk
計畫編號：NSC94-2216-E-231-001
執行期限： 94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日
主持人： 譚安宏 清雲科技大學機械工程系
共同主持人： 陳振堂 清雲科技大學機械工程系
計畫參與人員：
一、中文摘要
本研究探討不同雷射凸點設計及類鑽薄膜對下
世代硬碟片磨潤特性之影響。根據研究結果得知，
與傳統磁頭比較，使用點狀滑行塊設計的磁頭，可
搭配更低的雷射凸點高度及獲得較低的磨擦力。分
別以離子束沉積(IBD)及濺鍍方式來獲得碳氫(CH)
及碳氮(CN)類鑽薄膜。結果得知，拉曼 I(D)/I(G)強
度比值，隨著 IBD-CH 厚度的降低及濺鍍-CN 的氮
含量的增加而漸增，這表示濺鍍-CN 的氮含量的增
加，而形成較低的 sp3 鍵結。複合奈米硬度及楊氏
係數，亦隨著厚度的降低及濺鍍-CN 的氮含量的增
加而漸減。整體而言，因為機械強度與潤滑特性之
組合，1.5 nm IBD-CH/0.5 nm sputtered-CN
with 30% N2 所組成之雙層類鑽薄膜具有最佳的
磨潤特性。
關鍵詞：雷射凸點, 類鑽薄膜, 磨潤, 硬碟片
Abstract
This study investigates the tribology performance of
padded sliders on different designs of laser zone texture
and various diamond like carbon overcoats in
comparison with that of conventional slider. It is
found that the padded slider design combined with an
optimized laser zone texture exhibits lower stiction
during CSS testing than a conventional slider for the
same laser texture design. With the use of a padded
slider, media can be designed with lower laser bump
height, hence lower glide height, while maintaining
excellent tribology performance. DLC overcoats of
hydrogenated carbon (CH) and nitrogenated carbon
(CN) films were deposited by ion beam deposition
(IBD) and sputter, respectively. Results show the
intensity ratio I(D)/I(G) increases with decreasing
IBD-CH film thickness and increasing N2 concentration
of sputtered-CN layer, which implies that the films
prepared at higher N2 concentration contain a relatively
lower sp3 bonded carbon. The composite hardness and
Young’s modulus of DLC films decrease with
decreasing IBD-CH thickness and increasing N2
concentration of sputtered-CN layers. It is concluded
that the dual layer of 1.5 nm IBD-CH/0.5 nm
sputtered-CN with 30% N2 deposition has the best of
CSS tribological properties
Keywords: Laser zone texture, DLC, tribology,
magnetic recording media
二、計畫緣由與目的
In order to meet the ever increasing areal recording
density growth, the head-disk spacing has been reduced
dramatically to the range of 5-10 nm [1-2]. Under
such a low fly height, it becomes a major challenge to
have a reliable head-disk interface (HDI) for
contact-start-stop (CSS) operation. Media with laser
zone texture (LZT) and overcoats have been used
reliably and widely in the disk drive industry with
conventional sliders (head A, Fig. 1a) for flying heights
greater than 15 nm. But for flying heights less than 15
nm, laser bumps need to be lower. To reduce this
stiction, sliders with several well defined pads on the
air-bearing-surface are created to reduce the head-disk
contact area which in turn may reduce the stiction [3].
Otherwise, some studies were carried out on head
textured sliders for tribological performance
improvement [4-5], but there is no commercial product
available now. The specific role that the novel padded
slider may have in altering tribology reliability in LZT
disk is not completely understood. The research to
date is not conclusive as to whether the lowering of
bump height or bump spacing can be done without
affecting the tribology performance. In this case, the
contact area between head and disk at the PBI will get
much smaller than that of a conventional slider with
LZT, which resulting in a higher interaction force
between laser bumps and the pads at the PBI.
Although this is helpful to reducing stiction at the PBI,
every bump sustains a very large force which increases
the number of impacts under the same applied load.
Therefore, the size and number of the pads affect the
material strength directly while at the same time the
pads impact laser bumps at the PBI. The effect will be
more significant when pad areas become small.
Consequentially, careful design of the laser bump is
necessary for reducing wear rate and stiction during
take-off and landing. In this study, we investigate the
4that the G peak frequency increases with decreasing
IBD-CH film thickness and increasing N2 concentration
of sputtered-CN layer. Otherwise, The intensity ratio
I(D)/I(G) of D peak to G peak has a similar trend as
well as G peak frequency, which implies that the films
prepared at higher N2 concentration contain relatively
lower sp3 bonded carbon. This tendency agrees with
that exhibited in the study of Lin et al. [11]. Fig. 12
shows the load/unload displacement curve of samples A:
3nm IBD-CH; C: 2nm IBD-CH and D1: 1.5 nm
IBD-CH/0.5 nm sputtered-CN with 10% N2.
Obviously, the lower sp3 structure of sample D1 results
in lower composite hardness and Young’s modulus than
that of samples A and C. The composite hardness and
Young’s modulus of DLC films decrease with
decreasing IBD-CH thickness and increasing N2
concentration of sputtered-CN layer, as shown in Fig.
13. Fig. 14 shows the comparison of optical
micrographs of typical wear tracks of samples A, C and
D1 DLC films after the buffing test. Samples A and C
without CN layers, show higher hardness of all eight
samples, which do not result in an obviously visible
wear track on the IBD-CH films when using the 0.7 Lb
roller force and 200 Rpm rotating speed for 3 seconds,
as shown in Fig. 14a-b. When the hard Al2O3 particles
slide against the sputtered-CN layer during buffing,
abrasive wear, causing buff scratches on CN film
surface in terms of microploughing and microcutting
occur. As shown in Fig. 14c, serious wear tracks were
found on the surface of IBD-CH/sputter-CN layers
because of its lower surface hardness and Young’s
modulus as compared to a IBD-CH layer only.
3.3. Tribological properties of DLC films
Fig. 15 shows the CSS life cycles of all samples.
Reducing the IBD-CH thickness from 3 to 2 nm might
result in lower CSS life cycles, as shown in samples B
verse A of Fig. 15. Compared with sample B, the CSS
life cycles of sample C is not affected when the surface
roughness Ra is reduced from 0.5 to 0.3 nm.
Compared with sputtered-CN, IBD-CH offers the
promise of producing harder film at comparatively
lower total film thickness. But disks employing a CN
layer typically display increased surface polarities,
increased lubricant and decreased mechanical strength.
The amount of N2 incorporated into the film determines
the physico-mechanical properties of the sputtered CN
overcoat film. The mechanical strength and lubricant
bonded ratio of overcoats are extremely important
impacting both the corrosion sensitivity of magnetic
recording disk and the tribological performance of the
head disk interface. Even 3 nm thickness IBD-CH of
sample A exhibits higher mechanical properties, but its
lubricant bonded ratio is too low to serve the CSS
tribological properties requirement. The lubricant
bonded ratio of CN overcoat surface increases with
increasing N2 concentration, but its mechanical strength
is decreased. The thickness of the bonded lubricant at
the lubricant-overcoat interface has the effect of
increasing the coefficient of friction [12]. As
compared with IBD-CH film without a CN layer, the
existence of N2 in the film shows that the relative
bonding ratio of lubricant increases, resulting in an
increase in CSS life cycle firstly, then decreasing. The
hardness and bonding ratio are important parameters to
affect the durability life cycles. When the harnesses of
D1-D5 showed the similar values, the lubricant bonded
ratio is a key parameter for CSS life cycle improvement.
Too high thickness of bonded lubricant at the
lubricant-overcoat interface will increase the coefficient
of friction. The higher friction will suffer the life
cycle during CSS test. The lube bonded ratio of
samples D4 and D5 is higher than D3. It means there
is less free lubricant to redistribute on the interface of
head/disk. Therefore, CSS life cycle of samples D4
and D5 is lower than D3. On the other hand, the lube
bonded ratio of samples D1 and D2 is lower than D3.
It indicates that there is more free lubricant to flow on
the interface of head/disk. However, after a short
period of CSS testing time, it will induce a higher
amount of lubricant depletion on the interface of disks.
Therefore, CSS life cycle of samples D1 and D2 is
lower than D3. From the results of Fig. 10, it is
concluded that the sample D3 (1.5 nm IBD-CH/0.5 nm
sputtered-CN with 30% N2 concentration) shows the
best CSS durability because of the optimized lubricant
bonded ratio. The films of 1.5 nm IBD-CH/0.5 nm
sputtered-CN-30% N2 deposition has a good integrated
performance of corrosion resistance and tribology, and
can be expected to be used as a ultra thin disk overcoat
for the next generation.
四、結論
The stiction of padded slider B on media with a
bump diameter of 5m is much lower than 8m. The
best combination of stiction of PBI and micro-wear of
laser bumps was found at a bump density of 2000/mm2
in hot/wet conditions. In hot/wet conditions, a bump
height of 12 nm exhibits the best combination of
stiction and micro-wear.
The existence of N2 in the sputtered-CN film shows
that as the intensity ratio of I(D)/I(G) increases, this
results in a lowering of composite films hardness and
Young’s modulus. Compared with the IBD-CH film,
the dual layer of 1.5 nm IBD-CH/0.5 nm sputtered-CN
with 30% N2 shows the best CSS life cycles and
corrosion resistance of all eight samples because its
optimized lubricant bonded ratio.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The author would like to thank for the National
Science Committee of Taiwan for their financial
support under Grant NSC94-2216-E-231-001. The
author appreciates also the sample preparation and
testing support by Showa Denko HD Trace, Taiwan.
(五)參考文獻
[1] C. M. Mate, D. Qing, R. N. Payne, B. E. Knigge,
and P. Baumgart, IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 41, pp.
626-631, 2005.
[2] S. C. Lee and A. A. Polycarpou, IEEE Trans.
Magn., vol. 40, pp. 3130-3135, 2004.
[3] N. S. Tambe and B. Bhushan, Wear, vol. 255, pp.
1334-1343, 2003.
6Fig. 7. Acoustic emission intensity curve during
start-up CSS tests in the (a) Hot/Dry and (b) Hot/Wet
condition (padded slider B, bump diameter 5m, bump
height 9 nm, bump density 2000/mm2).
Fig. 8. CSS stiction trend chart of (a) padded slider B
and (b) C on media (hot/wet, bump diameter 5 m,
bump density 2000/mm2, bump height 6 nm).
Fig. 9. N/C ratio of samples.
Fig. 10. Raman spectrum of samples A: 3nm IBD-CH,
C: 2nm IBD-CH and D1: 1.5 nm IBD-CH/0.5 nm
sputtered-CN with 10% N2.
Fig. 11. G peak frequency and I(D)/I(G) of samples.
Fig. 12. Load/unload displacement curve of samples A,
C and D1.
Fig. 13. Composite hardness and Young’s modulus of
samples.
Fig. 14. The microscope images of the wear track after
buffing with 0.5 m Al2O3 tape: (a) sample A, (b)
sample C and (c) sample D1 under 0.7 Lb, 200 Rpm, 3
seconds.
