子分離器、粒子計數器。 
英 文 摘 要 ： This is a three-year project on the characterization 
and manipulation of particles and cells via 
generalized dielectrophoresis (DEP) and 
microfluidics. We have accomplished the following 
works: (1) We have developed methods and devices for 
measuring the real (Kr) and imaginary part (Ki ) of 
the Clausius-Mossotti (CM) factor based on force and 
torque balance, respectively, and measured the CM 
factors for various cells and particles. The 
measurements of Kr and Ki are rare in the literature, 
and all of them need numerical calculation of the 
device for the determination of their values and 
complicate apparatus (3D electrodes) and instrument 
(optical tweezer) for positioning the particle. 
Because of the suitable mechanical design, the 
present methods for Kr and Ki (using traveling wave 
field) do not need numerical calculation and 
complicated apparatus and instrument. Although our 
measurement of Ki using rotating field is similar to 
that in the literature, we have included the wall 
effect on DEP and viscous torque, and proposed a 
simpler method for particle positioning. (2) We have 
extracted the dielectric cell properties (both the 
permittivity and conductivity of membrane and 
cytoplasm) from the measurements of the CM factors. 
We found that the result using only Kr for derivation 
is not consistent with that using only Ki, and 
appropriate cell properties can only be derived using 
both Kr and Ki simultaneously. This is contrast to 
the literature that many dielectric cell properties 
were derived mainly using the ROT spectrum 
(proportional to the Ki spectrum here). (3) We have 
developed a method and fabricated a microfluidic 
device for selective separation and isolation of 
particles of similar sizes based on different CM 
factors for different cells. The method a marker-free 
method based solely on the intrinsic physical 
properties of different cells, and may be served as 
an alternative for current devices based on immune-
labeling. (4) We have developed a particle/cell 
1 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫▓ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
以廣義介電泳及微流技術對微粒和細胞作特性描述及檢測  
 
計畫類別： 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99 - 2221 - E - 002 - 082 – MY3  
執行期間： 99 年 8 月 1 日至 102 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：李雨 
計畫參與人員： 羅英傑、林雍倚 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管計
畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立臺灣大學應用力學研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 102 年 10 月 31 日 
 
 
3 
 
 
Abstract 
This is a three-year project on the characterization and manipulation of particles and cells via 
generalized dielectrophoresis (DEP) and microfluidics. We have accomplished the following works: 
(1)We have developed methods and devices for measuring the real (Kr) and imaginary part (Ki ) of the 
Clausius-Mossotti (CM) factor based on force and torque balance, respectively, and measured the CM 
factors for various cells and particles. Kr is measured in an approximate radial electric field, and Ki is 
measured in a travelling wave and a constant rotating electric field. Kr and Ki depend on the dielectric 
properties of the particle and its surrounding medium, the particle’s geometric composition, and the 
applied electric frequency. The conventional DEP is proportional to Kr, and the traveling wave DEP and 
DEP torque depend on Ki. The roles of Kr and Ki in generalized DEP are similar to the viscosity and 
second viscosity in fluid mechanics. However, the CM factor of many particles, especially cells, cannot 
be evaluated based on its definition. The measurements of Kr and Ki are rare in the literature, and all of 
them need numerical calculation of the device for the determination of their values and complicate 
apparatus (3D electrodes) and instrument (optical tweezer) for positioning the particle. Because of the 
suitable mechanical design, the present methods for Kr and Ki (using traveling wave field) do not need 
numerical calculation and complicated apparatus and instrument. Although our measurement of Ki using 
rotating field is similar to that in the literature, we have included the wall effect on DEP and viscous 
torque, and proposed a simpler method for particle positioning. (2) We have extracted the dielectric cell 
properties (both the permittivity and conductivity of membrane and cytoplasm) from the measurements 
of the CM factors. We found that the result using only Kr for derivation is not consistent with that using 
only Ki, and appropriate cell properties can only be derived using both Kr and Ki simultaneously. As the 
dielectric cell properties were derived mainly using the ROT spectrum (proportional to the Ki spectrum 
here) in the literature, all those cell properties need to be re-calculated if our finding is accepted by the 
academic society. (3) We have developed a method and fabricated a microfluidic device for selective 
separation and isolation of particles of similar sizes based on different CM factors for different cells. The 
method a marker-free method based solely on the intrinsic physical properties of different cells, and may 
be served as an alternative for current devices based on immune-labeling, i.e., based on the detection of 
specific bio-macromolecules linked on the cell membrane. (4) We have developed a particle/cell counter 
based on the variation of the optical strength. Such a counter is different from the others in the literature 
in the way of particle focusing in the detection region. Two focusing methods are employed here: one 
5 
 
parameters for DEP response were measured in the literature, they are not the CM factor, but a 
combination of the CM factor with other material and field properties (see Cruz and García-Diego, 1998, 
for example). The second goal of this report is to extract the electrical properties of various cancer cells 
from their measurement of the CM factor. The last goal is to design and fabricate a micro device to 
perform selective separation and isolation of particles and cells of similar size based on the findings of 
CM factors.  
The Clausius-Mossotti factor, ( )*K ω , is defined as (see Jones, 1995, for example) 
,                                                         (1)( ) ( ) ( )
2r i
p m
p m
K jKK ω ω ω
ε ε
ε ε
∗ ∗
∗
∗ ∗
−
= + =
+
 
for a homogeneous spherical particle, where ,/p p pjε ε σ ω∗ −=  / ,m m mjε ε σ ω∗ −=  1j = − , and ω 
is the applied electric angular frequency, with pσ  (or mσ ) and pε  (or mε ) the conductivity and 
permittivity of the particle (or medium), respectively, as shown in Figure 1(a). Equation (1) can be 
applied to layered particles, such as cells, with the complex particle permittivity, *pε , replaced by its 
equivalent value, pε ∗ .  For a two layer model of a spherical cell with radius, R, and membrane 
thickness, δ, as shown in Figure 1(b), 
 
   ( )( ) ( ) ( )
( )( ) ( ) ( )
3
3
/ / 2
(2)
/ / 2
2
,               s i s i sp p p
i s i s
R R
j
R R
δ ε ε ε ε
ε ε σ
δ ε ε ε ε
ε ∗
∗ ∗ ∗ ∗
∗
∗ ∗ ∗ ∗
−
 
− − + = +  
− − + 
+
=  
 
where /i i ijε ε σ ω
∗
−=  and /s s sjε ε σ ω
∗
−= , with sσ  (or iσ ) and sε  (or iε ) the conductivity and 
permittivity of the membrane (or the interior material, i.e., cytoplasm), respectively. For most 
mammalian cells, R is of three orders greater than δ, equation (2) can then be simplified to (Jones, 1995)  
 
  
( )2 2 (3)/ ,                                                
i
p p p
i
j
R
ε
ε ε σ ε
ε δ ε
∗
∗ ∗
∗ ∗
= +
+
≈
 
under the conditions / 1Rδ  , s iε ε≤  and .s iσ σ≤  The real and imaginary parts of equation (3) can 
be expressed explicitly as 
7 
 
 
The primary goal of this three year project is to develop methods for measuring both the real and 
imaginary part of the CM factor of particles/cells, which are rarely studied in the literature. The second 
goal is to study the cell dielectric properties using the CM factors, and develop the associated 
micro-fluidic devices for detection/isolation/separation of cells using the CM factors as physical 
phenotypes for cells.    
Several works were completed in the last year. (1) We have developed methods and fabricated the 
devices for measuring both the real and imaginary part of the CM factors, and measured the CM factors 
for various particles and cells. (2) We have extracted the dielectric properties (both permittivity and 
conductivity of membrane and cytoplasm) of various cancer cells from their measurement of the real 
part of the CM factors using optimization. (3) We have developed a method and fabricated a 
micro-fluidic device for selective separation and isolation of particles/cells of similar sizes based on 
different CM factors for different particles/cells. The method is a marker-free method based solely on 
the intrinsic physical properties of different cells, and may be served as an alternative for current devices 
based on immune-labeling, i.e., based on the detection of specific bio-macromolecules linked on the cell 
membrane. (4) We have developed a particle/cell counter based on the variation of the optical strength. 
Such a counter is different from the others in the literature in the way of particle focusing in the 
detection area. The counter can be incorporated with the particle/cell separator developed in (3) to form 
a system. 
 
 
(II) Measurement of the Clausius-Mossotti factor 
   
We have developed one method to study the real part of the CM factor and two methods to study the 
imaginary parts of the CM factor, and are discussed separately as follows. 
 
(i) Measuring the real part of the Clausius-Mossotti factor  
 
The experimental study on Kr is rare in the literature. Pohl and Pethig (1977) provided a way to 
measure directly the dielectrophoretic (DEP) force generated by an isomotive electrode system using a 
weighing balance, and thus Kr of particles can be derived. Such a method applied successfully for 
particles of millimeter sizes. For particles with sizes of order of tens of microns, it is more appropriate to 
measure Kr using the balance between the dielectrophoretic and Stokes viscous drag in a microfluidic 
system. Honegger et al. (2011) proposed such a method and carried out the measurement of spherical 
9 
 
DEP. However, an exact radial field can not be reproduced easily using the standard planar MEMS 
(Micro-electro-mechanical-system) techniques, as three-dimensional electrodes are needed. Instead, an 
approximate radial ac electric field can be generated rather easily in a flat MEMS device with ring and 
disk electrodes as shown in Fig. 2(a), with the height, H, much less than 1,r  2 1r r−  and 3 2r r− , and can 
be expressed (Lo and Lei, 2010) as 
                                         
( ) 10 2 1( ) 2 / ln / ,                                                           (5)ER j tr C V r r r re ω−=   E    
 
in 1 2r r r< <  and 0 z H≤ ≤ , where 1j = − , 02V  is the applied peak-to-peak voltage at the 
electrodes, r is the radial coordinate with r  the unit vector, and ERC  is a modified factor depending on 
2 /r H  and 1 /r H . ( )rE  represents the exact radial field if 1.ERC =  Here the walls other than the 
electrode surfaces in Fig. 2(a) are insulated. The approximate radial field remains unchanged if insulated 
walls are inserted at constant values of θ. A diverging micro channel with an opening angle 45° was 
employed for the validation of the theory of wall effect on dielectrophoresis (Lo and Lei, 2010). An 
alternative design for exposing particles to the approximate radial electric field is shown in Fig. 2(b), 
which covers half of the electrode region of Fig. 2(a) in a rectangular channel, and is more effective for 
performing experiment. Both the 45°-diverging channel in Lo and Lei (2010) and the straight channel in 
Fig. 2(b) were employed in the present study. The electrodes were deposited with gold on a glass 
substrate, with a chrome layer in between for improving the adhesion. The top and side walls are molded 
with PDMS (polydimethylsioxane). Figure 2(c) shows the top view of a device based on the design of 
Fig. 2(b). The fluid is disturbed frequency, and undergoes oscillation when we introduce particles/cells 
into the test section ( 1 2r r r< <  and 0 z H≤ ≤ ) in general. It was found that asymmetric obstacles 
(trapezoidal posts employed here) arranged in opposite manner on both sides of the test section, as 
shown in Figure 2(c), may help to damp the oscillation with tens of seconds. Figure 2(d) is a snapshot 
from a particle displacement movie showing the enlarged top view of the test section for a typical Kr 
measurement. The geometric parameters of the device in Fig. 2 are 1 300 μm,r =  2 600 μm,r =  
3 1300 μmr =  and 32.5 μm.H =  For the 45°-diverging channel, the parameters are (Lo and Lei, 2010) 
1 300 μm,r =  2 700 μm,r =  3 1100 μmr =  and 21 μmH =  or 28 μm.   
  The measurement is based on the force balance of a spherical particle in motion along a trajectory in 
11 
 
μm (or H = 28 μm) in DI water, and −0.48 ± 0.06 when f = 1 MHz for H = 28 μm in RPMI solution. The 
experimental values agree within 8% discrepancy with the theoretical values, 0.5,rK ≈ −  according to 
Eq. (1) using known dielectric properties, which are 1810  S/mpσ −=  and 02.56pε ε=  from the literature 
(Brandrup et al., 1999), mσ  = 2.8×10
−3 S/m (or 1.1 S/m) for DI water (or RPMI solution) from 
measurement and 080 ,mε ε=  with 
12
0 8.8542 10 F / m,ε
−
= ×  the permittivity in free space. If the effect 
of surface conductance associated with the electric double layer is considered (Hughes, 2003), pσ  in 
Eq. (1) is replaced by /p bulk sK Rσ σ= + , where  bulkσ  is the conductivity of the bulk material which 
equals 1810  S/m−  here, sK  is the surface conductance, and R = 7.5 μm for the present polystyrene 
particles. sK  = 0.2 − 2 nS in the literature (Arnold and Zimmerman, 1988). If sK  is chosen to be 1 nS, 
4/ 2.67 10  S/mp sK Rσ
−
≈ ≈ × , and 0.43rK ≈ −  for cases in DI water and −0.5 for the case in RPMI 
solution according to Eq. (1). The present measurements agree with the theoretical values within 23% 
discrepancy for the DI water cases and 4% discrepancy for the RPMI case.  
Next we applied the method to measure Kr of two lung cancer cells, CL1-0 and CL1-5, and a 
colorectal cancer cell, Colo205. The lung cancer cell line CL1 was established from a 64-year-old man 
with a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, and progressively metastatic cell subpropulations, CL1-1, 
CL1-2, CL1-3, CL1-4 and CL1-5, were isolated using the Transwell (Costar, Inc., Cambridge, MA) 
invasion chamber (Yang et al., 1992). The original cell CL1 (denoted here as CL1-0) and the most 
invasive cell CL1-5 (Chu et al., 1997) were employed here for the experiment. The cell line Colo205 
was established from ascites fluid obtained from a male patient with adenocarcinoma of the colon 
(Semple et a;., 1978). All the above three cells were obtained from National Taiwan University hospital. 
The cells were incubated in cultured medium in a specifically humidified 5% CO2 atmosphere at 
temperature 37°C. The medium, RPMI 1640, (Gibco BRL, Gaithersburg, MD), supplemented with 10% 
v/v feral bovine serum (FBS) and 1% v/v penicillin-streptomycin (Gibco BRL, Gaithersburg, MD), is 
utilized for cell culture. The cells cultured in the petri-dish were first buffered by PBS, and then 
detached from the disk surface by adding 1 ml 0.1%-trypsin-EDTA (Gibco BRL, Gaithersburg, MD) 
into the medium. After the cells were detached, 2 ml culture medium was added into the petri-dish, and 
then the whole mixture was injected into a 15 ml centrifuge tube for centrifugation (1000 rpm for 3 
minutes). Supernatant was removed and the cells were pipetted into the medium for experiment. Two 
types of medium were employed in the present study, the fresh cultured medium (RPMI solution) with 
13 
 
these three cells, with ratios 1:1.46 :1.86  (for Kr) for CL1-0, CL1-5 and Colo205, respectively, if they 
are of the same size; and 1:1.23 :1.20  (for 3rK R ) if the force is evaluated based on the mean sizes of 
the particles. It is thus suggested that the Kr spectra might be served as certain physical phenotypes for 
cell characterization and manipulation, and could probably be applied for cell separation in their 
physiological strength buffers if the size distribution effect could be isolated using some suitable 
microfluidic design.  
Kr was measured only for limited ranges of frequency in Figs. 2(h) and 2(i), partly because the upper 
limit is 40 MHz for the functional generator in the present study, and partly because the analytical 
solution of the approximate radial electric field has been employed in Eq. (6). The analytical solution in 
Eq. (5) was derived based on classical electrostatics subject to insulated wall conditions in the test 
section. The relaxation frequency of PDMS ( PDMSf ) and glass ( glassf ) are 0.016 Hz and 0.38 Hz, and 
those of the mediums ( mf ) are 2.47, 24.7 and 247 MHz for mσ  = 0.011, 0.11 and 1.1 S/m, respectively. 
The applied frequency, f, is required to be sufficiently greater than PDMSf  and glassf  but less than mf  
for the insulated assumption to be appropriate. Measurements can be performed when mf f≥ , but the 
electric field employed in Eq. (5) should be replaced by that obtained using other appropriate methods, 
for example, a numerical solution involving both the fluid medium and the wall materials. In such a case, 
we do not have an analytical expression, Eq. (6), for determining Kr directly from the experimental data.  
Because of the suitable mechanical design of the device, the present method requires only the particle 
displacement measurement, and is thus an efficient method for determining the real part of the 
Clausus-Mossotti factors of particles and cells. 
 
 
15 
 
iK  spectra (variations of iK  with frequency) studied here, Ω depends also on the electric field (and 
thus depends on the device geometry and particle location) and the viscosity of the surrounding fluid. It 
would be more useful in application and in understanding the behind physics if the iK  spectra are 
provided. 
There are very few experimental studies on iK  in comparison with those of the ROT spectra in the 
literature. The values of iK  for TentaGel particles, yeast cells, Jurkat cells and red blood cells were 
determined through the balance between DEP and viscous torque via electrorotation in optopole electro 
(Reichle et al., 1999) and electro-optical (Schnelle et al., 2000) micro-cages. The test particle was first 
trapped in the cage via negative DEP (Reichle et al., 1999) or optical force (Schnelle et al., 2000), where 
its angular velocity was measured. iK  was then determined through the torque balance of the particle 
provided the electric field where the particle locates was given, which was calculated numerically 
(Schnelle et al., 1993) 
The method proposed in the present study is different from those using cages in the literature. First, it 
is based on the force balance on a translating particle using twDEP instead of the torque balance on a 
rotating particle using electrorotation. Secondly, iK  is determined here by only measuring the particle’s 
displacement and its levitation height from the electrode array for generating twDEP. Analytical solution 
of the electric field is adopted (Morgan et al., 2001) instead of calculating the electric field numerically 
in the procedure.  
The present experiment was performed in a horizontal straight micro channel with an electrode array 
built on its bottom wall and gravity along the negative z-direction as sketched in Fig. 3(a). A traveling 
wave electric field is generated in the fluid medium in the channel when the electrodes are powered by 
ac voltages with an angular frequency ω and 90° phase shift (four-phase signal) between neighboring 
electrodes, and the corresponding quasi-static field can be expressed as (Wang et al., 1994) 
 
( )  ( )  ( ) ,            (7)cos cos cos( , , , ) x x y y z zx yE t E t E t zx y z t ω ϕ ω ϕ ω ϕ+ + + + +=E
 
where the amplitude components, ( , , ),x y zE E E  and the phase components, ( ), , ,x y zϕ ϕ ϕ  are all 
functions of spatial coordinates, ( ) ,, ,x y z  with  ( ), ,x y z  the corresponding unit vectors, and t is the 
time. The corresponding time average total DEP force on a spherical particle with radius R in an 
17 
 
as shown in Fig. 3(b). The force balance along the x-direction can be expressed as  
 
( )3 2 22 / / 6 ,                                 (9)m i x x z zR x x URCK E Eπε ϕ ϕ πμ∂ ∂ + ∂ ∂ =
 
where μ is the fluid viscosity, U is the x-component particle speed relative to its surrounding fluid, and C 
is a factor accounting for the wall effect on the viscous drag (Happel and Brenner, 1986). Biological 
cells exhibit negative DEP in general in physiological strength buffers (Gimsa et al, 1996; Lei et al., 
2009) and Eq. (9) is an adequate equation for evaluating iK  under a single frequency twDEP with 
electric field described by Eq. (7).  
However, there are many DEP applications performed in buffers with conductivity one to three order 
less than that of the physiological strength buffer. Crossover phenomenon occurs, and cells exhibit 
positive DEP ( 0rK > ) in certain frequency ranges, as the buffer conductivity is reduced. Cells move 
toward the electrode edges and adhere there. In order to keep the cell suspended and moving along the 
electrode array when 0rK > , an ac voltage with angular frequency 2ω  and 180° phase shift 
(two-phase signal) between neighboring electrodes is applied simultaneously to the array of Fig. 3(a) 
with the four-phase signal operated at ω. 2ω  is chosen such that a time average negative cDEP force 
 
3 2
2 2 22                                                          (10)cDEP m r rmsR K Eπε= ∇F
 
is generated, and overcomes the positive cDEP force in Eq. (8a) associated with the twDEP operated at 
ω. Here 2rK  and 
2
2rmsE  are the real part of the Clausius-Mossotti factor and the mean square electric 
field associated with the two-phase signal operated at 2ω . Such a dual frequency method was applied in 
the literature for twDEP (Pethig et al., 2003) and for electrorotation (Han et al., 2013). The average 
forces, ( )t cDEP twDEP= +F F F  in Eq. (8) and 2cDEPF  in Eq. (10), are additive, provided the period T for 
averaging is chosen to be the least common multiple of 2 /π ω , 22 /π ω , ( )22 /π ω ω+  and 
22 /π ω ω− . T is required also to be much less than the time scale associated with the particle motion in 
the device. Through the numerical calculations discussed later, the total force generated by the dual 
electric fields    
 
19 
 
once h and U are measured.  
The present device, a long rectangular micro channel containing the test section of Fig. 3(a) in the 
middle, was fabricated using standard MEMS techniques similar to those in Lei et al. (2009), including 
photolithography, wet etching and molding using PDMS. The electrode array was fabricated with gold 
(150 nm in thickness) on a glass substrate, with a chrome layer (30 nm) in between for improving the 
adhesion. The top and side walls are molded with PDMS, and bonded to the glass substrate. The test 
section is a small portion of the channel, and asymmetric obstacles are built on both sides of it inside the 
channel for flow stabilization during the experiment. There are 24 electrodes in the array, and are 
actuated by a four channel functional generator. Thus there are six cycles of the traveling wave electric 
field in the channel. Both the electrode width (d) and gap (s) are 15 μm, and the wavelength, λ, of the 
traveling wave field is thus 120 μm. The height (H) and the width (w) of the channel are 107 μm and 
1000 μm, respectively.  
Several particles in selected solutions were employed in the experiments. They are sephadex particles 
(Ishikawa et al., 1982; g-25 super fine, GE Healthcare Life Science) with conductivity 0.00693 S/m and 
relative permittivity 66 in KCL solution with conductivity 0.02343 S/m and relative permittivity 79.9, 
and three human cancer cells, CL1-0, CL1-5 and Colo 205, in RPMI solution with conductivity 1.6 S/m, 
and in equal-osmotic mannitol solutions made of 280 mM D-Mannit (Ferak, Germany) with their 
conductivities adjusted to 0.1 and 0.01 S/m by adding different amount of 3 M KCl solution. Description 
and preparation of the cells are the same as those in section II(i). The movement of the particles was 
observed and recorded through a CCD camera mounted on a microscope, and the image data (thirty 
frames per second) were stored in a computer and employed for deriving U.  
A two-dimensional numerical simulation of the dielectrophoretic force distribution in the channel for 
single frequency operation was performed based on electrostatics. First, the complex potential was 
obtained by solving numerically the Laplace equation in a region from s sx x x λ≤ ≤ +  and 0 z H≤ ≤ , 
where sx  is situated at the midpoint between two electrodes operated at 270° and 0° (Fig. 3(a)), 
respectively. The problem was solved using finite difference approximation subject to specified 
potentials at electrode surfaces, insulated condition at glass and PDMS walls, and periodic conditions at 
sx x=  and sx x λ= + . The electric field magnitudes and the phase components were then calculated, 
and finally cDEPF , twDEPF  and tF  were evaluated using the method of Yang and Lei (2007). Both the z- 
and x-components of the forces were calculated and shown in Fig. 3(c) for a typical case of cells with 
21 
 
term, 2 2/ /x x z zx xE Eϕ ϕ∂ ∂ + ∂ ∂ , in Eq. (9). Three terms of the infinite series of the theoretical solution 
were employed, and found to be successful for a converged result. The experimental result using the 
theoretical electric field is slightly greater (within 5%) than those using the numerical electric field, 
indicating that the analytical expression (Morgan et al., 2001) can be applied in the present device for 
determining iK , which is practically convenient as numerical solution is not required. There were two 
assumptions in the theoretical derivation, a linear variation of the potential between electrodes on the 
substrate, and there exists no upper wall at z = H. The errors associated with these two assumptions are 
minor if the particle is sufficiently far from the substrate and from the upper surface. The agreement of 
the two experimental results in Fig. 3(f) indicates that the theoretical electric field can be applied 
roughly for h > s and H−h > 2h under 5VppV =  for sephadex particles. A smaller voltage is required 
for cells as their densities are less than that of the sephadex particle. 
The iK  spectra of the CL1-0, CL1-5 and Colo205 cells were measured in RPMI solution at 
3VppV =  using a single frequency twDEP, and shown in Fig. 3(g). The results were obtained based on 
the theoretical electric field (Morgan et al., 2001) and would be slightly smaller (within 5%) if the 
numerical electric field was employed. There exist two peaks for each curve: the low and the high 
frequency peaks, which are related mainly to the membrane and cytoplasm properties, respectively. All 
the cells in RPMI solution in Fig. 3(g) move along the electrode array without adhering to the electrodes. 
This is consistent with the result in the literature (Gimsa et al., 1996; Lei et al., 2009) that the cells 
experience negative DEP in physiological strength buffer. All the values of iK  in Fig. 3(g) are positive, 
which agrees with the ROT spectra (Huang et al., 1992; Becker et al., 1995, Gimsa et al., 1996) that the 
cells rotate opposite to the rotating field at relatively low frequency (less than 40 MHz here). The spectra 
are different for different cells even for CL1-0 and CL1-5 at certain frequency ranges, implying that they 
may be served as phenotypes for different cells of similar origin, and employed for cell characterization 
and separation. Morgan et al. (2001) proposed a voltage- independent expression, 
 
( ) ( )2th 2 / 9 ( ) / ,                                            (12)p m i rU U gR K Kρ ρ μ≡ = −
  
for the translating speed of single frequency twDEP, based on the force balance on the particle using 
one-term approximation of their solution. It provide us a crude check for the measurements of iK  here 
23 
 
 
25 
 
electrode edge and adheres there. In order to keep the particle rotate steadily about the z-axis at a given 
position throughout the measurement, an optical tweezer was employed for positioning. The tweezer  
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Device and principle for the measurement of the imaginary part of the Clausius-Mossotti 
factor, Ki. (a) The key element of the device is an electrorotation chamber with four electrodes 
built on its bottom wall. An optical tweezer is employed for confining the particle rotation near 
the vertical central axis (z-axis) of the chamber. (b) The components of the optical tweezer. (c) 
The measurement is based on the balance between the dielectrophoretic and viscous torque on 
a sphere between two parallel plates, with wall effect included. (d) The device. The 
electrorotation chamber (indicated by the red circle) is situated in the middle of a flat micro 
channel, with asymmetric obstacles on both sides for flow stabilization. (e) Enlarged view of 
the region encircled in red in (d). Those four black dots are four bumps (with height about 
1μm) built on the substrate for locating the centre of the chamber. (f) Snapshot from a movie of 
a sephadex particle undergoing electrorotation. It also shows an enlarged view of the central 
part of (e). The gravity g is along the negative z-direction. 
27 
 
the chamber, respectively. If the adhesion between the particle and the substrate is minor, a simple and 
more accurate way of obtaining h is to adjust the strength of the optical tweezer such that the particle is 
just in contact with the substrate. In such a case, h equals R, which can be measured easily. In Eq. (13), 
εm, μ, and H are known quantities. With the particle position known, CDT, CVT and the potential derivates 
can be evaluated, and thus Ki can be calculated using Eq. (13) provided Ω is given. Here Ω was 
measured from the angular displacement history recorded for the particle rotation.  
The measurement was validated using sephadex particles (g-25 super fine, GE Healthcare Life 
Science) in KCl solution. Figure 5(a) shows that the measurement agrees with the theory with 
discrepancies in relative errors between 3-30% except the data at 30 and 40 MHz. The theoretical result 
was calculated based on Eq. (1) with εp/ε0 = 68.9 and σp = 0.00506 S/m (Ishikawa et al., 1982) and εm/ε0 
= 80 and σm = 0.01156 S/m from measurement. The experiment of a Colo205 cell rotates clockwise 
(same sense as the rotating field) when Ki < 0 at 30 MHz, but counterclockwise when Ki > 0 at 0.1 MHz. 
The cell stays essentially in the middle of those four circular bumps for locating the chamber centre in 
Fig. 4(f). Also the Colo205 cell spins steadily throughout the experiment, implying that the adhesion 
between the Colo205 cells and the substrate is not significant. This is not always the case for other cells, 
such as CL1-0. We have checked the Colo205 result by carrying out several measurements when the 
cells are not in contact with the substrate. A large number of Colo205 cells were measured (with h = R) 
and shown in Fig. 5(b). The theoretical result was calculated based on equations (1) and (2) with the cell 
dielectric properties in Table I (cases 1a, 1b and 1c), which will be discussed in Section III. The theory 
fits nicely the experiment at low frequencies, but fails at high frequencies, which will also be discussed 
in Section III. Each data point in Fig. 5(b) is based on at least four measurements. There are two peaks 
for Ki and no crossover phenomenon occurs when σm = 1.1 S/m (RPMI). Such a behavior for cells in 
physiological strength buffer is qualitatively similar to that of the ROT spectrum of red blood cells 
(Gimsa et al., 1996). Detailed experimental results of Ki in RPMI solution were re-plotted in Fig. 5(c), 
together with a result of a defective cell, whose membrane is at a marginal state of being electro-porated, 
but the cell kept its integrity throughout the measurement. The result of the defective cell is different 
from that of the intact cells at low frequencies, but both results collapse at high frequencies. This 
suggests that the low frequency peak in the Ki spectrum in Fig. 5(c) is related mainly to the dielectric 
properties of the membrane, while the high frequency peak is associated with the cytoplasm properties. 
The magnitudes of Ki of the Colo205 cells in Fig. 5(b) have similar values as those of the Jurkat cells in 
the literature (Reichle et al., 1999; Schnelle et al., 2000), but their signs are different. The cell dielectric 
29 
 
spectra for optimization. On substituting Eq. (2) into Eq. (1), the real and imaginary part of the 
Clausius-Mossotti factor can be expressed as 
 
( ),  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  /                                           (14a)thr r s s i i m mK K Rω ε σ ε σ ε σ δ=
 
and  
( ),  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  / ,                                         (14b)thi i s s c c m mK K Rω ε σ ε σ ε σ δ=
 
respectively, with thrK  and 
th
iK  denoting the theoretical values based on calculation with given 
parameters. With measured values of εm, σm and R and an assumed value of δ (5 nm in the present study), 
the dielectric properties, εs, σs, εi and σi,, in equations (14a) and (14b) can be derived by minimizing 
 
                          ( )2exp
1
N th
K n n
n
K K
=
Δ = − ,  
 
where thnK  is either 
th
rK  in Eq. (14a) or 
th
iK  in Eq. (14b), 
exp
nK  is either 
exp
rK  or 
exp
iK , the 
experimental values of Kr or Ki, respectively, and N is the total number of data points employed for the 
optimization. In the present study, N may be the total data points of Kr, Ki, or both Kr and Ki available in 
the experiment. A regression coefficient defined as (Wang et al., 1994) 
 
( ) ( )2 2exp exp
1 1
1 /                                        (15)
N Nth
N n n n
n n
K K Kρ
= =
= − −   
 
was calculated as an indicator for examining the degree to which the values of Kr and/or Ki calculated 
using the derived dielectric properties fit the experimental Kr and/or Ki spectra. The derived properties 
are the more appropriate values if Nρ  is more close to 1. The optimization was performed using the 
gradient projection method, with the aid of the MATLAB software. Table 1 summarised the derived 
results of σs, εs/ε0, σi and εi/ε0 of Colo205 cells in three groups with different medium conductivities. 
There are three cases in each group, employing both Kr and Ki, only Kr and only Ki for optimization. The 
regression coefficients, ρkrki, ρkr and ρki, are Nρ  evaluated using all the data points of both Kr and Ki, of 
only Kr and of only Ki, respectively. The results indicate that at least one of the derived properties is 
31 
 
impossible), as shown by εc/ε0 in case 2b and σs in case 3c, if no constraints were imposed on the 
optimization process. Thus an alternative plausible way for deriving cell dielectric properties is to 
employ both Kr and Ki spectra simultaneously for the optimization. According to the regression 
coefficients (ρkrki) in Table 1 and the curves in Figs. 6(a) and 6(b), the results using both the Kr and Ki 
spectra agree better with the experiments in comparing with those using only the Kr or Ki spectra. Figure 
7 shows that the calculation with the derived dielectric properties in cases 1a, 2a and 3a predicted nicely 
the Kr spectra, but the agreement between the prediction and the experiment is good only when the 
frequency is sufficiently low for the Ki spectra (Fig. 6(b)). The difference between the theory and 
experiment at high frequency is partly due to the electric current leakage at high frequency as discussed 
at the end of Section II(i), and partly because the cytoplasm dispersion occurs. The agreement at high 
frequency may be improved if suitable dispersion relation of cytoplasm (Gimsa et al., 1996) is included 
in equations (14a) and (14b), i.e., σi and εi/ε0 in equations (14a) and (14b) are not constants but replaced 
by some functions of ω. Thus the derived properties σs, εs/ε0, σi and εi/ε0 in cases 1a, 2a and 3a of Table 
1 are more likely the appropriate cell dielectric properties at low frequencies before cytoplasm 
dispersion occurs.  
 
 
 
  
 
Figure 6: Comparison of the experiment with theoretical predictions using dielectric properties derived 
from different data for (a) Ki and (b) Kr. 
 
 
33 
 
present result 0.58 S/mcσ =  in case 1c of Table 1 derived using only the Ki spectrum does agree with 
the result in the literature, but 0.056 S/miσ = in case 1a is considered to be more appropriate when 
0.011 S/mmσ = because the properties in case 1c has been demonstrated that they cannot predict 
correctly the Kr spectrum in Fig. 6(b). 
 
 
(IV) Selective separation and isolation of particles/cells of similar sizes using dielectrophoresis 
 
Dielectrophoresis (DEP) has been applied extensively in the separation and isolation of particles/cells 
(Hughes, 2003; Pethig, 2010) using the positive/negative DEP feature and the size dependence of DEP 
force. However, most cells behave negative DEP in physiological strength buffer, and possess 
overlapped size distributions (see Figure 2(g)). Thus we aim to propose here a method for selective 
separation and isolation of particles of similar sizes based on Clausius-Mossotti (CM) factors. The CM 
factor can be served as phenotypes for cells, and the CM factor for two lung cancer cells, CL1-0 and 
CL1-5, were measured in section (II).  
  The present device in Fig. 8(a) is essentially a straight micro channel (PDMS) with grooves built on 
its ceiling for capturing particles, and electrodes built on its bottom wall (glass) for generating electric 
field. Different particles for separation are entrained in the flow, which is driven by a syringe pump. The 
particles are polarized and experience different forces, including cDEP force, wDEP force, buoyancy 
and fluid drag. Here cDEP and wDEP forces are the conventional DEP and wall effect DEP forces (Lo 
and Lei, 2009), respectively. With COSMOL software, we calculated the flow, the electric field and 
forces in the device. A typical result is shown in Figure 8(b) – 8(g). Vertical force distributions in Figure 
8(f) indicate that the upward cDEP and wDEP forces dominate the downward buoyancy at the 
intersection between the groove and the main channel, and may push the particles into the groove if the 
background flow rate, Q, is not strong enough to carry them downstream. Thus we may perform 
selective capture of particles (with different CM factor) based on a designed force balance, which may 
be controlled by varying Q and electric frequency. Here we fixed the device geometry and the applied 
voltage at 20 Vpp. Figure 8(h) and (i) show that the particles are captured in the grooves. 
    The captured rate, CR, is defined as the ratio of the number of particles captured in the grooves to 
those entering the channel. Figure 9 shows that CR for the polystyrene particles (PS) are nearly 100% 
when Q < 80 μL/hr, while CR for both CL1-0 and CL1-5 cells are nearly zero when Q > 70 μL/hr. This 
35 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9: Capture rates for various particles (polystyrene particles, lung cancer cells CL1-0 and CL1-5) 
in RPMI solution for different electric frequencies and background flow rates (40 μL/hr 
corresponds to an average flow speed at 412 μm/s.
37 
 
the present study: focusing via geometric restriction (three-dimensional), and focusing via both 
geometric restriction (two-dimensional) and DEP force. 
 
(i) Particle focusing via three-dimensional geometric restriction 
Consider first the case for focusing via solely geometric restriction. Figure 10(a) is a sketch 
showing the detection principle of the device. Two optical fibers, as wave guides, are built 
perpendicular to the micro channel of the detection region of the device. Both the height and the 
width of the channel (30 μm) are chosen to be less than the diameter of the core of the optical 
fiber (62.5 μm), so that a portion of the channel is wholly illuminated by the laser light from the 
bottom to the top wall of the channel. The size of the channel (30 μm) is chosen such that most of 
the particles/cells to be counted (from 5 to 20 μm) pass the detection region one-by-one. When a 
particle/cell passes through the detection region, it blocks the light and lowers its strength via 
scattering (reflection), refraction and absorption, and thus is counted by comparing the incoming 
and outgoing light strength. Due to the high shear in the channel, the Saffman’s lift force 
(Saffman, 1965) will push the particles/cells toward the centerline of the channel. Most of the 
particles/cells in the present study pass through the detection region one-by-one unless they 
collide together before entering the detection region. Figure 10(b) shows a sketch of the top view 
of the device. The detection region is a segment of the illuminating necking region (30 μm in 
width and height, and slightly greater than 30 μm in length). The necking region, with 
approximately 300 μm in length, connects two micro channels with the same height (30 μm) but 
much larger width (890 μm) as shown in Figures 10(b-1) and 10(b-2), such that the mean 
medium velocity within the necking region is about 30 times greater than that within the wide 
channels. For an example with volume flow rate at 50 μL/hr, the mean velocities of water are 
15432 μm/s and 520 μm/s in the wide channel region and the necking region, respectively. Figure 
10(c) shows a three-dimensional sketch of the device, which is fabricated by bonding two pieces 
of micro-fluidic elements (see Figures 10(d) and 10(e)) molded with PDMS. Figure 10(f) shows 
the final fabricated device. 
 
 
 
39 
 
with a response time at 2.5 MHz. However, the data acquisition rate is limited by the capacity of 
the computer system for handling the data. It is about 5000 signals per second in the present 
system. Most of the results presented in the present report were obtained using a sampling rate at 
2500 signals per second. The whole system was mounted on an optical table for reducing the 
noise and vibration from the surrounding. The results shown in this sub-section (IIIA) were 
obtained from experiments at a volume flow rate 50 μL/hr.  
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Apparatus for the experiment. 
 
Figure 12(a) shows a typical signal when a particle passes through the detection region. The 
number of the signals is counted and recorded via the Labview software (Figure 12(b)). The 
movie recorded using the CCD camera is also shown on the monitor screen of the computer 
together with the Labview counter. Figure 12(c) shows a snapshot of the image of the monitor 
screen. The experiment shown in the figure is a case for counting two polystyrene particles with 
different sizes simultaneously. The number “8” on the left and the number “31” on the right are 
the numbers of particles with diameter 15 μm and 10 μm, respectively, counted in the experiment. 
As the particle velocity in the wide channel is relatively slow, it can be counted with our naked 
eyes, and can be served as a check for validity of our counting device. 
41 
 
 
 
Figure 13: The threshold (cut-off) voltage for different particles. (a) Polystyrene particles (PS) 
with diameter 10 μm. The cut-off voltage is set to be 1.98 V (= 0.92 VB ). Here VB  
is the average background voltage when there is no particle passing through. (b) 
Polystyrene particles (PS) with diameter 15 μm. The cut-off voltage is set to be 1.92 
V (= 0.98 VB ). (c) Signals when both sizes (10 and 15 μm) of the PS particles 
passing through the detection region. (4) The cut-off voltage is set to be 2.12 V for 
the lung cancer cells, CL1-0. The diameters of the cells are from 10 – 25 μm, with 
most of them in the range between 15 – 19 μm.   
 
A cut-off voltage was set to be 2.12 V for the CL1-0 cells in the present study. The cut-off 
voltage for a given particle needed to be chosen carefully. A proper cut-off voltage needs to cut 
43 
 
counted electronically in the device with the number counted by our naked eye when the particle 
enters the necking region from the wide channel. Table 2 shows the results for three sets of 
particles: polystyrene (PS) particles with diameter 10 μm, PS particles with diameter 15 μm, and 
lung cancer cell CL1-0. About 1000 particles are counted for each set of particles. We will find 
different situations from the received signals for each test (column 2 – 6 of Table 2): the 
contaminant, coagulated particles (usually two particles), particles exhibiting double “peak” 
values (Figure (14b)) in the signal curve which means that one particle is counted twice, 
uncounted particles because of the unsuitable cut-off voltage, and correctly-counted particles. 
The results in Table 2 show that the accuracy of counting PS particles reaches 98%, and about 
90% for the lung cancer cell, CL1-0. There are many substances other than individual cells 
(contaminant or dirt) in the culture medium (RPMI) containing the cells, which is the major cause 
reducing the accuracy of cell counting. In general, the accuracy for cell counting can be increased 
to the level of particle (PS) counting if the contaminant is removed with some suitable 
micro-fluidic treatment before they are counted. As Figure 13(c) shows that the signals are 
different for different sizes of the particles, we may try to count both particles simultaneously 
when they are mixed together in a medium. Table 3 shows that a 98% accuracy can be reached 
for the mixed particles, similar as those for counting single particles. 
 
 
 
Figure 15: Contaminant (dirt) in the medium (a) and two coagulated particles (b) may lead to 
incorrect counting of the number of the particles/cells.  
 
45 
 
we perform two-dimensional (horizontal) geometric restriction with the vertical focusing 
achieved using DEP force. The device for validating such an idea is shown in Figure 16. An 
electrode array is deposited on a glass substrate for generating the DEP force for lifting the 
particles/cells (negative DEP behaved) to be counted. The glass substrate is served as the bottom 
wall of the device. The side and top walls of the device form one piece, which is molded with 
PDMS as shown in Figure 16(c). The glass substrate is bonded with the PDMS element to form 
the device. Figure 16(a) shows the top view of the electrode and necking (detection) region of the 
device. Most cells and many particles are negative DEP behaved, and thus they can be lifted from 
the glass substrate as they travel along the channel carried by the flowing medium. Negative DEP 
force on the particles/cells is generated by actuating the electrodes with ac voltages with 180° 
phase difference between neighboring electrodes. The height of the channel of the device is 130 
μm (Figure 16(b)), which is chosen to be slightly greater than the outside diameter of the optical 
fibers. However, such a height is too large for focusing the particles/cells via geometric 
restriction, and thus DEP force is employed for focusing in the vertical direction.  
Figures 17(a), (b) and (c) show the numerical results of the trajectories of a 15 μm 
polystyrene particle starting at different locations elevated from the glass substrate. The 
numerical solution is based on the force balance amount the DEP force, the Stokes’ viscous drag 
and the buoyancy, and is facilitated by using the COMSOL software. The background flow rate is 
set to be 150 μL/hr, which is equivalent to a mean speed 360 μm/s in the wide channel (electrode 
region) and 10680 μm/s in the necking (detection) region. All the trajectories join together at 
some downstream locations because of the lift from the DEP force, and the settling height 
increases as the applied voltage increases. Figure 17(d) shows the experimental signals recorded 
together with the numerical elevations of the particles in the cross section of the detection region. 
The signal is maximized at an intermediate value (5 V here for this case) when the particles are 
situated near the centre of the cross section. Such an optimized voltage will be altered if different 
particles/cells are to be tested. 
Table 4 shows the experimental particle/cell counting results for different test particles as 
those in Table 2. Similar accuracies as those in Table 2 (using solely geometric restriction for 
particle focusing) can be obtained here for focusing using both geometric restriction and DEP 
force. The counting result for mixed particles (10 μm and 15 μm PS particles) via focusing using 
47 
 
   
 
 
Figure 17: Results for particle focusing using both geometric restriction and DEP force. 
Numerical results of the trajectories of 15 μm polystyrene particles starting at 
different elevations in the channel when (a) 3 V, (b) 5 V and (c) 7 V peak-to-peak 
voltages are applied to the electrodes at 100 kHz frequency. The real part of the CM 
factor is -0.5 in the calculation. (d) Experimental signals and the associated 
numerical particle elevation in the cross section of the channel for different applied 
peak-to-peak voltages. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
49 
 
(IV) Conclusion 
We have accomplished the following works: (1) We have developed methods and devices for 
measuring the real and imaginary part of the Clausius-Mossotti (CM) factor, and measured the 
CM factors for various cells and particles. (2) We have extracted the electrical properties of cells 
(both permittivity and conductivity of membrane and cytoplasm) from the measurements of the 
CM factors of lung cancer cells, CL1-0 and CL1-5, and colorectal cancer cells, Colo205. (3) We 
have developed a method and fabricated a microfluidic device for selective separation and 
isolation of particles of similar sizes based on different CM factors for different cells. (4) We 
have developed successfully two particle/cell counting micro-fluidic devices based on two 
different particle/cell focusing methods. One uses solely the geometric restriction, and the other 
employs both geometric restriction and negative DEP force. The present results may find 
applications in the manipulation and characterization (both simulation and experiment) of 
particles and cells in micro-fluidic systems, in biomedical detection, and in physics of cells.  
 
 
References 
1. Arnold, W. M. and U. Zimmermann,“Electro-rotation: development of a technique for 
dielectric measurements on individual cells and particles”, J. Electrostat., 21, 151 − 191 
(1988).  
2. Becker, F. F., X.-B. Wang, Y. Huang, R. Pethig, J. Vykoukal and P. R. C. Gascoyne, Proc Natl 
Acad Sci USA, 92, 860 (1995). 
3. Brandrup, J., E. H. Immergut, W. A. Grulke, A. Abe and D. R. Bloch ed., Polymer Handbook, 
4th ed. (John Wiley & sons, 1999).  
4. K. L. Chan, H. Morgan, E. Morgan, I. T. Cameron, M. R. Thomas, Biochimica et Biophysica 
Acta, 2000, 1500, 313-322. 
5. Chu, Y.-W., P.-C. Yang, S.-C. Yang, Y.-C. Shyu, M. J. C. Hendrix, R. Wu and C.-W. Wu, Am. 
J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 17, 353 (1997). 
51 
 
with the temperature-sensitive P85 gag-mos -dependent transformation of rat kidney cells as 
determined by dielectrophoresis and electrorotation,” Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1282, 76-84 
(1996). 
21. Ishikawa, A., T. Hanai and N. Koizumi, Jap. J. Appl. Phys., 21, 1762 (1982). 
22. Jones, T. B., Electromechanics of particles, Cambridge University Press, 1995. 
23. Jones, T. B., “Basic theory of dielectrophoresis and electrorotation,” IEEE Engineering in 
Medicine and Biology Magazine, 22, 33-42 (2003). 
24. Lei, U. and Y. J. Lo, “Review of the theory of generalized dielectrophoresis,” 
Nanobiotechnology, 5, 86-106 (2011). 
25. Lei, U., C. W. Huang, J. Chen, C. Y. Yang, Y. J. Lo, A. Wo, C. F. Chen and T. W. Fung, “A 
travelling wave dielectrophoretic pump for blood delivery”, Lab Chip, 9, 1349-1356 (2009). 
26. Lin, C.-H., G.-B. Lee and B.-H. Hwei, “A novel micro flow cytometer with three-dimensional 
focusing using utilizing dilectrophoretic and hydrodynamic forces,” 0-7803-7744-3/03/ IEEE 
439-442 (2003). 
27. Lo, Y. J. and U. Lei, “Quasistatic force and torque on a spherical particle under generalized 
dielectrophoresis in the vicinity of walls,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 95(25), 253701 (2009). 
28. Lo, Y. J. and U. Lei, “Experimental validation of the theory of wall effect on 
dielectrophoresis,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 96(9) 093702 (2010). 
29. Masuda, S., M. Washizu and M. Iwadare, IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 23, 474 (1987). 
30. D. Mietchen, T. Schnelle, T. Müuller, R. Hagedorn and G. Fuhr, J. Phys. D: Appl Phys., 2002, 
35, 1258-1270. 
31. Morgan, H., A. G. Izquierdo, D. Badewell, N. G. Green and A. Ramos, “The dielectrophoretic 
and travelling wave forces generated by interdigitated electrode arrays: analytical solution 
using Fourier series”, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys., 34, 1553-1561 (2001). 
32. Müller, T., G. Gradl,  S. Howitz, S. Shirley, T. Schnelle and G. Fuhr, Biosensors & 
Bioelectronics, 1999, 14, 247-256 
33. Muratore, M., V. Srsen, M. Waterfall, A. Downes and R. Pethig, Biomicrofluidics 6, 034113 
(2012). 
53 
 
50. Yang, R., D. L. Feeback and W. Wang, “Microfabrication and test of a three-dimensional 
polymer hydro-focusing unit for flow cytometry applications,” Sensors and Actuators A, 118 
259–267 (2005). 
51. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flow_cytometry 
 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
We have completed the work as stated in the proposal. Some of our results have been 
published, some are under review for referred journals, and some are under preparation. The 
published results are: 
(1) U. Lei and Y. J. Lo, “Review of the theory of generalised dielectrophoresis,” IET 
Nanobiotechnology, 5(3), 86-106, 2011 (invited paper). 
(2) U. Lei, Pei-Hou Sun and Ronald Pethig, “Refinement of the theory for extracting cell 
dielectric properties from dielectrophoresis and electrorotation experiments,” 
Biomicrofluidics, 5, 044109 (2011). The paper has also been selected for the December 1, 
2011 issue of Virtual Journal of Biological Physics Research (http://www.vjbio.org). 
(3) Y. J. Lo and U. Lei, “Measurement of the Clausius-Mossotti factor for dielectrophoresis,” The 
Second Conference on Advances in Microfluidics and Nanofluidics and Asian-Pacific 
International Symposium on Lab on Chip (AMN-APLOC 2011), 5 - 7 January 2011, 
Singapore. 
(4) Y. J. Lo, U. Lei and P. C. Yang, “Selective separation and isolation of particles/cells of similar 
sizes using dielectrophoresis,” MicroTAS 2011 Conference, Paper No. M21G, 2-6 October 
2011, Seattle, USA. 
(5) Yun Yi Lin and U. Lei, “Measurement of the imaginary part of the Clausius-Mossotti factor,” 
to be presented at MicroTAS 2012 Conference, 28 October – 1 November, 2012, Okinawa, 
Japan. 
(6) Y. J. Lo, Y. Y. Lin, G. Y. Chen, and U. Lei, “Measurement of the Imaginary Clausius-Mossotti 
factor via electrorotation,” The Fourth Conference on Advances in Microfluidics and 
Nanofluidics (AMN), 23 - 25 May 2013, Notre Dame University, USA. 
(7) Y.Y. Lin and U. Lei, “Measurement of the imaginary part of the Clausius-Mossotti factor via 
dual frequency travelling wave dielectrophoresis,” The 37th National Conference on 
Theoretical and Applied Mechanics (37th-NCTAM) and The 1st International Conference on 
Mechanics (1st-ICM), November 8-9, 2013, National Tsing-Hwa University, HsinChu, 
Taiwan, ROC. 
 
The manuscripts under review are: 
(1) Y. J. Lo, U. Lei, M. S. Wu and P. C. Yang, “Measurement of the real part of the 
1 
 
 
附件: 出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99 - 2221 - E - 002 - 082 – MY3 
計畫名稱 以廣義介電泳及微流技術對微粒和細胞作特性描述及檢測(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 李雨 
服務機關及職稱 國立臺灣大學應用力學研究所  教授 
會議時間地點 October 28 – 
November 1, 2012 
Okinawa, Japan 
會議名稱 MicroTAS 2012 Conference 
發表論文題目 Measurement of the imaginary part of the Clausius-Mossotti 
factor 
 
一 、 參加會議經過 
I flied to Okibawa of Japan on October 28 and back to Taiwan on November 2, 2012. The 
conference is held from October 28 to November 1. This five-day conference is the 16th 
International Conference on Miniaturized Systems for Chemistry and Life Sciences, with more 
than 1,000 attendees from all over the world. According to the records of the conferences, there are 
89 oral presentations and 600 poster oral presentations selected from 1,200 paper submissions. The 
scope of the conference spans from microscale to nanoscale physics and chemistry, from 
molecules to cell and tissues, and from fundamental theories to devices and systems. And the 
areas of application also spread from clinical diagnostics to energy and environmental 
applications.  
In addition to the regular presentations, there are 6 excellent plenary lectures. They are: (1) 
Ethology and rheology of an amoeboid cell, by T. Nakagaki of the Future University, Hakodate, 
Japan, (2), Interrogating neurodegenerative disease states using pluropotent stem cells: a case of 
study in Huntington disease, by Francesco Paolo Di Giorgio of Novartis Institute for Biomedical 
Research, Switzerland, (3) Detection of water borne microbes using an autonomous underwater 
sensor, the environmental sample processor (ESP), by James M. Birch of Monterey Bay 
Aquarium Research Institute, USA, (4) Microfluidic tools to model and analyze the body, by 
3 
 
 
 
 
攜回資料名稱及內容 
A flash disk containing all the papers presented at the conference. The material in the following 
three pages is our paper presented at the conference. 
 
 
 
 
5 
 
recorded through a CCD camera mounted on a microscope along the negative z-direction of Fig. 1(a), and the image 
data (thirty frames per second) were stored in a computer and employed for deriving the particle velocity, U. 
 
RESULT AND DICSUSSION 
Figure 1(d) shows the numerical values of the x-component total DEP force (cDEP plus twDEP forces, [7]) at 
different heights (z). It indicates that the cDEP force (which varies around zero along the x-axis) dominates at small z, 
while the twDEP force (positive) dominates at large z. Such a finding agrees with the analysis of Morgan et al. [6]. 
The agreement between the total DEP and the twDEP force in Figures 1(e) and 1(f) indicates that cDEP force is 
negligible when z > s = 15 μm. In the present study, the particles are under negative DEP, and move essentially on a 
horizontal plane at heights between z* = 30 − 40 μm according to both calculation and measurement. Thus the force 
balance along the x-direction involves only the twDEP force and the viscous fluid (Stokes) drag, which provide the 
basis for measuring iK , as discussed in the last section.  
The method is validated by measuring particles with known iK . Figure 2(a) and 2(b) show that the measured 
values of sephadex and liposome particles agree nicely and fairly, respectively, with the theory. The agreement 
between the experimental values using the numerical and the theoretical electric field indicates that the analytical 
expressions in [6] can be employed for the present design. Two lung cancer cells, CL1-0 and CL1-5, were also 
measured in RPMI solution (natural environment) and other medium with different conductivities. The results in 
Figures 2(c) to 2(f) show that the variations of iK  with frequency are different for different cells, which implies 
that iK  may be served as phenotypes for different cells with similar origin, and can be employed for cell 
characterization and separation. Figure 2(e) shows that iK  is negative near 10 MHz, which indicates that the 
particle might migrate along different directions in a twDEP device, or rotates in opposite directions in an 
electrorotation chamber, by changing the applied electric frequency if the medium conductivity is properly selected. 
 
 
Figure 1: (a) Sketch for the test section of the device. A particle rotates as it translates downward the phase gradient if 
iK  > 0, or vice versa. In the experiment, d = s = 15 μm, H = 107 μm and w = 1000 μm. The electrodes are powered 
by a 5V peak-to-peak voltage with different frequencies. (b) Enlarged top view of the channel region containing the 
test section of the device. (c) The device. (d) The normalized x-component total DEP force at different heights from 
half (7.5 μm) to three times (45 μm) of the electrode gap. (e) and (f) The distribution of the normalized x-component 
total DEP and twDEP force, respectively. Numerical results in (d)-(f) are for a case using sephadex particle with 
conductivity 6.5 mS/m and relative permittivity 40, in a medium with conductivity 0.01 S/m and relative permittivity 
78, operated at 5 V (peak-to-peak) and 4 MHz. The force scale for normalization is 3 2 302 m R V sπε − , with 0V  half the 
value of the applied peak-to-peak voltage. 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/11/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以廣義介電泳及微流技術對微粒和細胞作特性描述及檢測
計畫主持人: 李雨
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-002-082-MY3 學門領域: 熱傳學、流體力學
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
被邀請為IET Nanobiotechnology期刊撰寫回顧論文＇Review of the theory of 
generalised dielectrophoresis, ＇ ＇ (IET Nanobiotechnology, 5(3), 
86-106, 2011). 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
