中文摘要： 
 
近年來，由於無線通訊的快速發展，許多相關之研究被重視，其中異質接面電晶體
因具備高頻率、高密度、高線性功率放大及高輸出功率等優點，因此以異質接面電晶體作
為主動放大器的技術已廣泛地應用在各種無線通訊元件上。為了因應下一世代產品的微型
化發展需求，高功率放大器製作將更加密集化，然而在有限空間中高頻運作下，高功率放
大器所產生熱會嚴重影響元件電性之表現能力及可靠度，所以高密度之高功率放大器所造
成的熱效應現象在未來勢必是一大問題。 
    本計畫預計以一年的時間，分析散熱貫孔結構之單一及多集極高功率放大器的
熱傳特性，探討在高偏壓的操作環境下，因其自發熱效應及熱耦合效應的交互影響所造成
的系統高工作溫度及溫度分佈不均勻之情形，並將檢視散熱結構幾何尺寸與元件熱效應間
的相依性。特別針對集極在上異質接面電晶體在真實情形下的自發熱與耦合效應，以電腦
最佳化設計多集極間的排列間距，提出避免區域性高溫之元件結構設計建議。 
    依據上述深入分析所得到之幾何條件、基板厚度、多集極排設位置與整體溫度
分佈的相互影響關係，對所探討的高功率放大器做適切之散熱貫孔結構小型化設計，期能
達到良好之散熱效益，有效降低系統熱阻，並提供業界所需之設計準則。 
 
關鍵詞：高功率放大器、異質接面電晶體、集極在上、散熱貫孔、最佳化設計 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I 
報告內容：(Journal of Electronic Packaging, Vol. 131, Article no. 044501,   
          December 2009.) 
 
Dear Hsien-Cheng Tseng, 
 
Review has been completed on your paper, EP-08-1068 (Technical Brief), Analysis and Design 
of Thermal-Via Configurations for GaInP/GaAs Collector-Up HBTs as Small High-Power 
Amplifiers. 
 
Based on the comments received, the evaluation returned, and the recommendation of the 
Associate Editor, I am pleased to inform you that your paper has been accepted for publication in 
the Journal of Electronic Packaging. The detailed comments of the reviewers are available for 
your further consideration. Please log in to the web site to review the suggested changes. 
 
Your Final Manuscript is due on 12 Jun 09. 
 
Please proceed to submit your final paper to the site for my approval. Please be certain to follow 
the Author Guidelines provided and complete (and submit) the transfer of copyright form, which 
is mandatory for publication. Also, if you wish to have any of your figures reproduced in color 
for the print version of the journal, please review the Publication Charges under Author 
Resources.  
 
Sincerely, 
Bahgat Sammakia  
Editor, Journal of Electronic Packaging 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Novel Design of Thermal-Via Configurations for Collector-Up HBTs 
Pei-Hsuan Lee† †, Hsien-Cheng Tseng,†a) , and Jung-Hua Chou,† † 
 
Summary 
 We devise a finite-element model (FEM) to analyze the thermal performance of collector-up (C-up) 
heterojunction bipolar transistors (HBTs) with a thermal-via configuration. A demonstration on the 
GaInP/GaAs C-up HBT is presented in this Brief, and the novelty of this work is that both 2-D and 3-D 
temperature-distribution analyses are performed. The 2-D results indicate the original thermal-via 
configuration can be reduced by 29%. Furthermore, the results show that the maximum temperature within 
the collector calculated from 3-D analysis is lower than that from 2-D analysis. Based on the 3-D analysis, it 
is revealed that the reported configuration can be reduced by 32%. Therefore, the C-up HBT with a compact 
thermal via should be helpful for miniaturization of heat-dissipation packaging configurations within 
HBT-based HPAs. 
Key words: 
COLLECTOR-UP (C-UP), FINITE ELEMENT MODEL (FEM), HETEROJUNCTION BIPOLAR 
TRANSISTORS (HBTS), HIGH-POWER AMPLIFIERS (HPAS), THERMAL VIA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
thicknesses of PHS layer and GaAs substrate. 
2. fINITE-ELEMENT MODELING APPROACH 
Fig. 1 shows the cross-sectional view of the GaInP/GaAs C-up HBT with a backside thermal-via 
structure. To consolidate the results of various thermal-via configurations, we normalize the thickness of 
each layer by the thickness t, whose typical value is 0.65 μm, of the GaAs layer located upon the etch-stop 
layer. The thicknesses of the collector wiring, collector, base, emitter, PHS layers, and GaAs substrate are 
1.3, 0.8, 0.1, 0.2, 12, and 30 t, respectively. In this work, the thermal resistance is defined as the difference 
between the maximum temperature of the HBT and the bottom surface temperature 
A linear FEM has been developed in ANSYS to evaluate the junction temperature and temperature 
distribution of the device with a large thermal-via as shown in Fig. 1, which is served as the reference 
configuration for later comparison. A steady-state heat transfer condition is assumed for this simulation. In 
this orthogonal-coordinate-based analysis, the shape of thermal via is transformed in to a rectangular 
parallelepiped. Some of the chosen elements are specified by convections or heat fluxes as surface input 
loads at the element faces. The nodal temperatures are the solution output. Unstructured meshes are used 
instead of a free mesh so that regions with large temperature gradients can be treated by much smaller 
finite-element meshes. The convergence criterion employing the Preconditioned Conjugate Gradient (PCG) 
solver is 1 x 10-12. To make the analysis more efficiently, we assume that the thermal interface resistance 
between each layer is negligible and the material property for each layer is constant. The materials and their 
properties considered here are as described in [9]. The main heat, given by a static heat flux at the element 
face source, is at the collector layer. Boundary conditions for the surfaces in contact with surrounding air at 
room temperature are as follows: convection at the bottom surface and adiabatic for the rest surfaces. Note 
that the assumptions and boundary conditions adopted here are common in most HBTs. In reality, the FEM 
has been validated mathematically as well as experimentally, and a comprehensive evaluation has been 
 8
Paper No. EP-08-1068 
    Corresponding Author’s Last Name: Tseng 
Fig. 4 shows the influence of adjusting the thicknesses of GaAs substrate and PHS layer of the 
GaInP/GaAs C-up HBT under identical conditions. To miniaturize the thermal via structure which occupies 
the major proportion of the whole device, it is necessary to reduce the thicknesses of PHS layer and GaAs 
substrate. The configuration shown in Fig. 3 is treated as the reference configuration for which the 
thicknesses of the PHS layer and GaAs substrate are denoted by tp and ts, respectively. Also, the maximum 
temperature is normalized to the junction temperature of the reference configuration. In other words, the (1, 
1) coordinate in Fig. 4 represents the state of the reference configuration, which refers to the original 
configuration. Namely, the new configurations not only result in lower thermal resistance, but also are more 
compact. 
It is noticed from Fig. 4 that the same cooling performance as the reference configuration can be fulfilled 
by decreasing 26% of the GaAs substrate and 31% of the PHS layer. This is different from the result 
obtained from the 2-D simulation demonstrated in [8], in which the thermal resistance was reduced by 
doubling the thickness of PHS layer. In fact, from Fig. 4, all of the considered configurations below the 
normalized temperature value, which is equal to 1, outperform the reference configuration.  
B. Temperature-Distribution Analysis from 3-D Model 
Usually, a 2-D simulation can save lots of time and resources in most practical conditions, so it is the 
desired mode of analysis. However, a real device is always three dimensional. Hence, it is critical to realize 
the validity of 2-D simulation in which the conditions along the depth are treated uniformly.  
Fig. 5 shows the results of adjusting thicknesses of the GaAs substrate and PHS layer of the 3-D model. 
For easy comparison, the normalization of temperature achieved in Figs. 4 and 5, which are obtained from 
the FEM, is normalized to the junction temperature of the original configuration [8]. From Fig. 5, it is 
observed that the maximum temperatures of 3-D simulations are lower than those of 2-D simulations. For 
the cases with the maximum temperatures smaller than the original 2-D reference case, the deviation is 
 10
[4] H. Kroemer, “Heterostructure bipolar transistors and integrated circuits,” Proc IEEE, vol. 70, no. 1, pp. 
13-25, Jan. 1982.  
[5] L. J. Choi, A. Sibaja-Hernandez, R.Venegas, S. V. Huylenbroeck, and S. Decoutere, “SiGe HBTs with 
normal high-speed emitter-up and reverse low-power collector-up operation,” IEEE Trans. Electron 
Devices, vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 358-364, Jan. 2008. 
[6] D. Y. Jung, H. S. Kim, S. E. Hong, and E. S. Nam, “OEIC design using InP SHBT/PD on vertically 
stacked layers for 10-Gbps optical communication systems,” Korean Phys. Soc., vol. 45, no. 3, pp. 
738-741, Sept. 2004. 
[7] R. Stenzel, J. Würfl, E. Richter, C. Pigorsch, and W. Klix, “Simulation of influence of heat removal on 
power gains of heterojunction bipolar transistor,” Proc. WOCSDIC, Zeuthen, pp. 53-54, 1998.  
[8] Y. Osone, K. Mochizuki, K. Tanaka, “Thermal performance of collector-up HBTs for small high-power 
amplifiers with a novel thermal via structure underneath the HBT fingers,” IEEE Trans. Compon. 
Packag. Technol., vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 34-38, Mar. 2005. 
[9] H. C. Tseng, P. H. Lee, and J. H. Chou, “Improved design of thermal-via structures and circuit 
parameters for advanced collector-up HBTs as miniature high-power amplifiers,” IEICE Transactions 
on Electronics, vol. E90-C, no. 2, pp. 539-542, Feb. 2007. 
[10] H. C. Tseng, “Evaluation of packaging effects on GaInP/GaAs collector-up HBTs: simulation and 
experimental comparison,” unpublished. 
 
 12
Paper No. EP-08-1068 
    Corresponding Author’s Last Name: Tseng 
 
 14
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利                                                          日期：98 年 10 月 30 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：高功率放大器中散熱貫孔之小型化設計與熱分析 
計畫主持人： 曾憲正        
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－168－040     學門領域：：熱傳學、
流體力學 (E72) 
技術/創作名稱 EDA-Modular-based 高功率放大器中散熱貫孔之設計 
發明人/創作人 曾憲正 
技術說明 
中文： 
    近年來，由於無線通訊的快速發展，許多相關之研究被重
視，其中異質接面電晶體因具備高頻率、高密度、高線性功率放大及
高輸出功率等優點，因此以異質接面電晶體作為主動放大器的技術已
廣泛地應用在各種無線通訊元件上。為了因應下一世代產品的微型化
發展需求，高功率放大器製作將更加密集化，然而在有限空間中高頻
運作下，高功率放大器所產生熱會嚴重影響元件電性之表現能力及可
靠度，所以高密度之高功率放大器所造成的熱效應現象在未來勢必是
一大問題。 
    本計畫預計以一年的時間，分析散熱貫孔結構之單一及多
集極高功率放大器的熱傳特性，探討在高偏壓的操作環境下，因其自
發熱效應及熱耦合效應的交互影響所造成的系統高工作溫度及溫度分
佈不均勻之情形，並將檢視散熱結構幾何尺寸與元件熱效應間的相依
性。特別針對集極在上異質接面電晶體在真實情形下的自發熱與耦合
效應，以電腦最佳化設計多集極間的排列間距，提出避免區域性高溫
之元件結構設計建議。 
    依據上述深入分析所得到之幾何條件、基板厚度、多集極
排設位置與整體溫度分佈的相互影響關係，對所探討的高功率放大器
做適切之散熱貫孔結構小型化設計，期能達到良好之散熱效益，有效
降低系統熱阻，並提供業界所需之設計準則。 
 16
 
3. 有效運用先進的演化數理方法與平台資訊技術，發展節省人力與成
本的自動化工具，提昇我國微電子與半導體產業整體競爭實力。 
 
4. 對 collector-up HBT 元件做設計適切之散熱貫孔結構，有效降低  
   collector-up HBT 元件熱阻。 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
1.對於高階演化演算法計算及 HPA 元件結構系統之領域擴展，提出
  一套完整的智慧型平台架構理論，作為未來應用於各種不同結構的
  HPA 晶片系統元件最佳化設計之參考依據，對學術研究及產業研發
  上皆具價值。 
 
2. 提供科技大學院校從事電腦輔助設計可用的一套最佳化工具，使技
   職大學體系經由半導體製程的模擬研究與產業界之實務技術連
   結。同時，培育學生在實際有效的模型建立及晶片系統實作過程中
   充分瞭解製程中的物理機制，將來畢業進入代工廠能從製程模擬中
   掌握及改善現有製程。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 An In-Depth Numerical Investigation Into Packaging Design of  
Multi-Finger GaInP/GaAs Collector-Up HBTs 
 
H. C. Tseng, J. Y. Chen 
Department of Electronic Engineering, Kun Shan University 
949, Da Wan Rd., Tainan, 71003, Taiwan 
Email:hctseng3@ceg.com. 
 
Abstract 
A novel finite-element modeling approach is developed 
to design thermal-via packaging configurations of 
collector-up heterojunction bipolar transistors (C-up HBTs) 
in high-power amplifiers (HPAs). The thermal interaction 
between HBT fingers has been examined based on the 
temperature distribution phenomena in multifinger C-up 
HBTs. The results reveal that the overall compactness of 
thermal-via configuration can be further improved more than 
33%. 
1. Introduction 
The GaInP heterojunction bipolar transistor (HBT), 
which can operate at low-power supply voltages and is 
capable of handling high power, is an attractive candidate for 
use as the active component in the dual-band system of 
high-power-amplifiers (HPA) applications [1]. Recently, the 
tendency is toward higher levels of system integration on a 
chip in a package, especially for cellular-phone 
communication systems. Inevitably, the miniaturization of 
HPAs is a must to meet the requirement of the 
system-on-chip (SOC) or system-in-package (SIP) 
development. The miniaturization of HPAs depends mainly 
on thermal management of HBTs. Furthermore, as 
systematically discussed in Kroemer’s classical paper [2], an 
inverted transistor design with a smaller collector on top and 
a larger emitter at the bottom has speed advantages over the 
conventional emitter-up (E-up) HBT structure. Therefore, we 
investigate the collector-up (C-up) HBT that has a 
thermal-via packaging configuration in the backside, for the 
purpose of obtaining good heat radiation so that the thermal 
coupling between the fingers can be alleviated. For a modern 
cellular-phone communication system, it is crucial to reduce 
the temperature within HBTs during high-power operation 
for the improvement of power density, current gain, 
power-added efficiency, and reliability [3]. As regards the 
C-up HBT, a small HPA requires the HBT with a multifinger 
design to generate high-power signals and lower currents for 
each finger to reduce the collector temperature. In reality, the 
thermal interfering effect often influences the miniaturization 
of HPAs. In this work, through the multifinger GaInP C-up 
HBT, we demonstrated the thermal performance compared to 
the C-up tunneling-collector HBT with the original 
configuration, which is a large thermal-via structure [4], and 
we calculated the size effect of the thermal-via configuration 
on the temperature distribution using the finite-element 
modeling (FEM). For this advanced packaging-technology 
analysis, the FEM methodology was used to calculate 
temperature distribution around the transistor by adjusting 
the thicknesses of plated heat sink (PHS) layer and GaAs 
substrate. Simultaneously, the maximum operation 
temperature in the three-finger C-up HBT with different 
finger pitches was examined.  
2. Finite-Element Modeling Approach 
A three-finger GaInP-GaAs C-up HBT with a large 
thermal-via is demonstrated in Fig. 1. The thermal via is 
placed directly at the backside of the substrate. The thickness 
is normalized by the thickness t of the GaAs layer located on 
the etch-stop layer. The thickness of collector, base, emitter, 
PHS, and substrate are 0.8, 0.1, 0.2, 12.0, and 30.0, 
respectively. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of the three-finger collector-up 
HBT with a thermal via. 
 
The overall dimension of the C-up HBT is 4.5t (width) by 
40.0t (length). Five different finger-pitch configurations (15t, 
18t, 21t, 24t, and 27t) were explored. The pitch of 15t is 
treated as a reference for comparison. Under this modeling 
strategy, the thermal resistance between interfaces of each 
layer is assumed to be negligible, and the thermal as well as 
mechanical properties of each layer are considered to be 
constant. The heat source is located at the collector layer. As 
to the boundary conditions, the natural convection with room 
temperature at the bottom surface of the thermal via and the 
adiabatic conditions at the rest of the surfaces are adopted. 
3. Thermal Performance Analysis 
In Fig. 2(a), a cross-sectional view of the three-finger 
C-up HBT analysis model is illustrated, and the temperature 
distribution in the C-up HBT with 15t finger pitch is 
displayed. It can be observed that heat transfers from the 
collector layer, through the emitter, GaAs and PHS layers, to 
2009 International Conference on Electronic Packaging Technology & High Density Packaging (ICEPT-HDP) 
978-1-4244-4659-9/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE 
 2009 International Conference on Electronic Packaging Technology & High Density Packaging (ICEPT-HDP) 
 
 
  
 
                                                      
 
                                                
Fig. 5. Temperature distribution with different pitches at the 
bottom location of the collector. 
 
Fig. 4. Temperature distribution with different pitches at the 
top location of the collector. Acknowledgments 
This work was supported in part by the NSC under 
Contract No. NSC 97-2221-E-168-040. 
 
 
Furthermore, temperature distributions at different 
locations of the collector region have been investigated to 
improve the HPA thermal performance. Figs. 4 and 5 show 
temperature distributions at the top and bottom locations of 
the collector. It is clear that the temperature of the center 
finger is the highest irrespective of pitch and location 
differences since it is affected by the heat from both sides. 
 
References 
1. Liu, W., Kim, T., Ikalainen, P., and Khatibzadeh, A., 
“High linearity power X-band GaInP/GaAs 
heterojunction bipolar transistor,” IEEE Electron Device 
Lett., Vol. 15, No. 6 (1994), pp. 191-192. 
2. Kroemer, H., “Heterostructure bipolar transistors and 
integrated circuits,” Proc. IEEE, Vol. 70, No. 1 (1982), 
pp. 13-25. 
 
Conclusions 
The thermal performance of the multifinger GaInP C-up 
HBT with a thermal-via packaging configuration has been 
analyzed using the FEM approach, modified from our former 
paper [5]. The results reveal that the thickness of thermal-via 
structure can be further reduced by more than 33% through 
proper compact design for both PHS and substrate 
thicknesses, and the achieved thermal performance will not 
be deteriorated. On the other hand, the maximum operation 
temperature of the transistor can be reduced by the 
optimization of finger pitches. From this analysis, we 
conclude that thinning the thermal via together with a thinner 
GaAs substrate should be an effective access to the 
miniaturization of HPAs in future cellular-phone 
communication systems. 
3. Stenzel, R., Würfl, J., Richter, E., Pigorsch, C., and Klix, 
W., “Simulation of influence of heat removal on power 
gains of heterojunction bipolar transistor,” Proc. 22nd 
WOCSDIC, Zeuthen, 1998, pp. 53-54. 
4. Tanaka, K., Mochizuki, K., Takubo, C., Matsumoto, H., 
Tanoue, T.,and Ohbu, I., “Investigation of Thermal 
stability in multifinger GaInP/GaAs collector-up 
tunneling-collector HBTs with subtransistor via-hole 
structure,” IEEE Trans. Electron Devices,  Vol. 53, No. 
8 (2006), pp. 1759-1767. 
5. Tseng, H. C.,  Lee, P. H., and Chou, J. H., “Improved 
design of thermal-via structures and circuit parameters for 
advanced collector-up HBTs as miniature high-power 
amplifiers,” IEICE Trans. Electron., Vol. E90-C, No. 2 
(2007), pp. 539-542.                                              
 
 
 
