 2
The relationship between the field vane strength and triaxial 
compression strength 
 
S. F. Su 
ABSTRACT: The analysis of vane torque into cohesive soil is based on the simplifying 
assumption that the stress state of soil around a rotating vane is similar to a cylindrical 
shearing condition. By using experimental data on the back-analysis, the principal shear 
stress under the cylindrical shearing condition has been obtained. Then the undrained 
vane shear strength can be determined. However, the influences of stiffness and 
sensitivity of clay, interfacial shear strength, and strain level on the vane resistance are 
not considered. Only two parameters are needed in this proposed relationship between 
the field vane strength and triaxial compression strength: one is a plasticity index; and 
the other is a strength anisotropy ratio which is related to the axial compression and 
extension undrained shear strength of clays. The results show that the shear strength 
ratio of the field vane strength over the axial compression strength decreases with a 
decrease in the plasticity index and decreases with a decrease in the strength anisotropy 
ratio. The shear strength ratio lies in the region of 0.55 to 1.00 when the plasticity index 
is larger than 10% for strength anisotropy ratio ranged from 0.4 to 0.8. Finally, the 
effect of strength anisotropy on the field vane test can become obvious only for soil 
with low plasticity (such as when the plasticity index is less than16%). But the error 
resulting from not taking into account the strength anisotropy on the field vane test is 
not greater than 24%. 
Keywords: Anisotropy; Undrained shear strength; Clay; Vane shear resistance. 
 
* Assoc. Prof., Dept. of Construction Technology, Tungnan University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
 4
clay particles and the process of deposition. This implies that the undrained shear 
strength will have depending on the major principal stress orientations or stress paths. 
Therefore, the effect of stress-induced anisotropy on vane resistance should also be 
taken into account. In order to overcome this shortcoming, this paper will combine the 
associated flow rule and the anisotropic strength criteria (Su et al., 1998). The 
envelopes of anisotropic strength criteria under cylindrical shearing condition can be 
determined and used for describing the predominant failure modes around a rotating 
vane. Then the undrained shear strengths obtained from field vane shear test can be 
determined. Further, the influence of strength anisotropy on the field vane strength is 
evaluated herein. 
 
ANISOTROPIC UNDRAINED SHEAR STRENGTH UNDER CYLINDRICAL 
SHEARING CONDITION 
In general, plane strain conditions were adopted in the soil elements around a rotating 
vane (Perez-Foguet et al., 1999). It is reasonably assumed that the stress state of soil 
around a rotating vane is similar to the cylindrical shearing condition (Fig. 1). The 
nonzero stress components in the cylindrical shearing condition are the horizontal radial 
stress σr, horizontal hoop stress σθ, vertical normal stress σz, and shear stress τrθ, with 
the corresponding strains being εr, εθ, εrθ, and εz = 0. In fact, the cylindrical shearing 
condition differs from the plane strain condition (i.e., the horizontal normal strain is 
equal to zero) when clay exhibits shear strength anisotropy behavior. However, the 
undrained shear strengths under the cylindrical shearing condition obtained from the 
Tresca failure criteria have the same values. This is irrelevant to the major principal 
stress directions at the failure and stress increment during rotation of the stress axes at 
any stress level. Due to the orientation of naturally deposited clay particles, the isotropic 
 6
0=∂
∂==
z
p
zz
Fddd σλεε                                                (4) 
 
where dλ = scalar proportionality function of the stress-strain history of the soil. By 
combining equations (1) and (4), the failure function FCS for the cylindrical shearing 
condition can be expressed as 
 
2))(
2
1(
6
1
rrCS AF σσθ −+= 03
12 22 =−++ KA rr θτ                          (5) 
                       
ασσσ θ ++=
2
r
z                                                     (6) 
 
For convenience, Eq. (5) is rearranged as follows: 
 
2
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
uc
r
s
θτ =
22
212
)1(
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−+
+
uc
r
r
r
sA
A σσθ                                         (7) 
 
By plotting the calculated results of Eq. (7) on the (σθ -σr)/2suc and τrθ /suc axes, a 
circular shear strength envelope can be established for soils with different strength 
anisotropy ratios (Fig. 2). The size of the circular envelope increases with the strength 
anisotropy ratio Ar. When Ar is equal to unity, the anisotropy strength envelope becomes 
the failure function of von Mises.  
 
UNDRAINED STRENGTH INTERRELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN FV AND CKoU 
TESTS 
 8
27.0)(65.1
2
−=− PI
suc
rσσθ                                                (8)                
 
The experiential relationship of principal shear stress given by Eq. (8) is adopted here, 
while the stiffness and sensitivity of clay, interfacial shear strength, and strain level are 
not considered. However, the ratio of principal shear stress (σθ -σr)/2 to CKoU triaxial 
strength suc is found to range from 0.60 to 1.00 when the plasticity index is less than 
17%. The normalized principal shear stress lies in the region of 0.42 to 0.80 when the 
plasticity index is larger than 48%. Then undrained shear strength obtained from field 
vane shear test can be rewritten by combining equations (7) and (8) to give 
 
uc
vaneu
s
s )( = 54.0
2
)(72.2
12
)1( −−+
+ PI
A
A
r
r                                      (9) 
 
To verify the suitability of Eq. (9), it is compared with the laboratory test results in 
Table 1 and Fig. 4. As shown in Fig. 4, the difference between calculated and observed 
is generally less than 20% and indicates that the relationship between su(vane) and suc can 
satisfactorily represent a wide range of plasticity index and strength anisotropy ratio of 
clays. The results calculated from Eq. (9) are plotted in Fig. 5 in terms of the shear 
strength ratio su(vane)/suc , plasticity index PI, and strength anisotropy ratio Ar. The shear 
strength ratio of su(vane)/suc decreases with a decrease in plasticity index and decreases 
with a decrease in Ar. The shear strength ratio lies in the region of 0.55 to 0.84 when the 
plasticity index is less than 20% for Ar = 0.4 ~ 0.8. Moreover, the effect of strength 
anisotropy on the field vane test can become obvious only for soil with a low plasticity 
(such as PI＜16%). But the error resulting from not taking into account the strength 
 10
in this analysis.  
The cylindrical shearing condition and test data were developed to analyze the 
relationship between the undrained shear strength obtained from field vane test and that 
obtained from Ko consolidated axial compression triaxial undrained test. The 
experimental data measured in CKoU triaxial compression and extension, direct simple 
shear, and field vane shear tests are used to demonstrate a relationship between su(vane) 
and suc that has reasonableness. The results show that the shear strength ratio (su(vane)/suc) 
decreases with a decrease in plasticity index and decreases with a decrease in strength 
anisotropy ratio (Ar). The shear strength ratio (su(vane)/suc) lies in the region of 0.55 to 
1.00 when the plasticity index is larger than 10% for Ar = 0.4 ~ 0.8. However, the effect 
of strength anisotropy on the field vane test can become obvious only for soil with low 
plasticity (such as PI＜16%). But the error resulting from not taking into account the 
strength anisotropy on the field vane test is not greater than 24%.                                 
 
REFFERENCES 
Bjerrum, L. (1973). “Problems of soil mechanics and construction on soft clays and 
structurally unstable soils.” Proceedings 8th International Conference on Soil 
Mechanics and Foundation Engineering, Moscow, 3, 111-159. 
Finno, R. J., and Chung, C. K. (1992). “Stress-strain-strength response of compressible 
Chicago glacial clays.” Journal of Geotechnical Engineering, ASCE, 118(10), 
1607-1625. 
Ghionna, V., Jamiolkowski, M., Lacasse, S., Ladd, C. C., Lancellotta, R., and lunne, T. 
(1985). “Evaluation of self-boring Pressuremeter.” Proceedings International 
Symposium in Situ Testing, Paris, 1-9. 
Hight, D. W., Bond, A. J. and Legge, J. D. (1992). “Characterization of the Bothkennar 
 12
449-489.  
 
 
 14
simple shear tests and vane shear tests on soft clay 
Fig. 1   Predominant failure mode around a rotating vane 
Fig. 2   Envelope under cylindrical shearing conditions with different strength 
anisotropy ratios (Ar) on the normalized shear stress axes 
Fig. 3   Relationship between plasticity index and normalized principal shear stress 
obtained in field vane tests  
Fig. 4   Comparison of calculated and observed normalized vane shear strength (data 
from Table 1) 
Fig. 5   Relationship between su(vane)/suc and plasticity index under various Ar 
Fig. 6   Relationship between su(vane)/sue and plasticity index under various Ar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1  Comparison between the results of compression and extensiontests, direct 
 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
