摘要 
為了符合災區道路容量復原之不確定性及時間相依性，本研究將道路災害搶修排程問題
視為隨機旅行時間/時間相關車輛途程規劃問題之變化式。假設存在一完善之即時災難應變
資訊系統，可以快速且正確地得知各式道路災害發生地點以及搶修資源分佈情形（包括人力
與機具等），則可利用本研究建構之緊急搶修排程隨機規劃模式，幫助救災中心在有限的搶
修資源下，做出可以讓所有搶修工作隊之期望完工時間最小化的工作隊調派決策，以提高搶
修作業效率。此外，本研究亦針對此模式發展一情境基礎式之啟發演算法，進行模式求解。
修改 Solomon (1987) 提出之含時窗限制車輛途程規劃標準測試例題，設計本研究之數值例
以進行演算法測試分析，以完全資訊期望價值評估本研究所建構之隨機規劃模式的價值與演
算法有效性。 
關鍵詞：緊急搶修排程、隨機規劃模式、完全資訊期望價值 
Abstract 
Because the duration for rehabilitating a broken roadway depends on the degree of 
destruction brought by the disaster and other uncontrollable factors, we assume the duration time 
can be represented as a stochastic value in this study. In addition, the road damage would occur 
anywhere and anytime. We assume a well-developed on-line disaster information system is 
available; real-time information about rehabilitation resources and the road damage could be 
obtained without any difficulties. In this paper, we utilize the rolling-horizontal modeling 
technique and stochastic programming skills to formulate a real-time emergency repair scheduling 
model with stochastic duration time. The objective is to minimize the completion time of the work 
teams, including the total travel time and total working time of the original schedules as well as the 
increment or decrement of the completion time which is induced by adding the new damaged 
points to the original schedules. A series of demand-responsive emergency repair schedules is set 
up. Furthermore, we develop a scenario-based heuristic and modify the benchmark problems of 
vehicle routing proposed by Solomon (1987). The scenario-based heuristic is tested by the 
elaborated numerical examples. By means of the expected value of perfect information, the 
validity of the proposed stochastic programming model and the effectiveness of the developed 
algorithm are proven. 
Keywords: Emergency rehabilitation scheduling problem, Stochastic programming model, The 
expected value of perfect information 
 
報告內容 
1. 簡介 
 自然災害往往是無法預期且無法抵抗的情形下發生，在地狹人稠的臺灣，因自然災害而
傷亡的人數與財產年年增加。自然災害的發生，在時、空上有明顯的不同，大致上皆具有突
發性、影響時間較長、受災空間亦較廣泛的特性。也因為自然災害造成影響的時、空特性，
造成災區相當程度的破壞，不僅僅是災害發生當時的一次災害（自然力如地震、土石流所造
成的破壞）、二次災害（因一次災害所引起的火災、爆炸等）。在人地互動頻繁的今日，災區
的居民還必須面對三次災害-因維生管線遭受破壞的衝擊(吳心琪，1996)。 
交通系統在維生管線中扮演重要且基本的角色。由於局部中斷引起整個或大部分運輸路
網不能暢通，將影響著救援行動及救災物資的運送。搶救的時間增加，將使得災區民眾生命
財產受創的情形更加嚴重。因此道路系統能否發揮其功能，將會直接影響到救災的時效與成
效。王在莒(2004)指出震災發生後之運輸功能則端賴省道及縣道之修復情形，其搶修順序將
決定整體績效及未來地方經濟之復甦速度；亦影響後續搶修及復建工作。 
據，期能符合災後實際狀況及多方考量。 
Fiedrich et al.(2000)開發一套適合強震後搜救時期(search-and-rescue, SAR)的最佳化資源
配置決策支援系統。由於目前常見之災難管理決策系統較屬被動性資訊管理系統，缺乏主動
性決策輔助資訊，對於實際救災之功能發揮有限。因此，其系統主要以資源配置最佳化為主
要決策目的，具有不同策略模擬與數學規劃基礎之資源配置排程核心模式等兩項主要特色。
整體救援策略目標設定為SAR時期死傷人數最小化，該文中死傷存活與二次災害機率則根據
歷史統計與專家資料進行模擬。模式中區分出傷患受困區、二次災害高風險區及需立即搶修
之道路設施區等三類災後救援作業區域;資源配置排程時間則考慮機具設備旅行時間以及工
作區作業時間；旅行時間計算係以最短路徑演算法(shortest path algorithm)進行動態計算，因
此整體排程模式定義為一動態組合最佳化模式。在驗證方面，作者選擇模擬退火法(Simulated 
Annealing, SA)、禁忌搜尋法(Tabu Search, TS)與爬坡法(hill-climbing)進行測試與分析比較，
結果顯示以模擬退火法的表現最佳。 
張立偉(2001)建立一套多目標緊急應變指派方法以進行災後工程緊急搶修作業排程，以
在有限時間內，尋求搶修單位之旅行時間最小化、搶修時間最小化及災點之搶修風險最小
化。並以含時窗限制之車輛途程問題（Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows）為解題
架構，發展基因演算法基礎之演算法求解此一組合最佳化問題之模糊滿意解(fuzzy satisfying 
solution)。 
馮正民等(2002)以最大道路搶通長度(可及性)、最大搶救人數及最低搶修風險來構建震
災後72小時道路緊急搶修模式。Feng and Wang(2003)演算前述模式後指出搶修目標中之追求
最多救援人數及追求搶修最多里程長度間具抵換(Trade off)關係，至於追求搶救風險最低部
分，則因各組合排程所面臨之風險值相近，且無法避免，可以忽略。 
李志華(2003)曾針對路網搶修作業此一組合最佳化問題，以基因演算法為架構提出兩子
模式加以求解問題。其一，考慮搶修處理時間之模糊性，於演算法設計上整合模糊數排序方
法，以期產生一實務可行之排程決策。其二，以有限資源排程問題角度，利用共生式進化演
算法，有效求解多重專案與多單位工程資源之路網搶修排程問題。 
王在莒(2004)以數學規劃構建震災緊急搶修排程模式，目標在追求搶救最多之受困人員
及搶修最多的道路里程，限制條件為搶修工作時間、搶修方式及現場清運能量。藉以對災區
公路緊急搶修單位之人員進行問卷，瞭解影響緊急搶修之因素，並以不同的影響因素之組
合，推算及建議一組可因應不同情境之簡易緊急搶修時間調整參數，以縮短分析時間，以達
到緊急搶修時間能更充裕之目標。 
施佑林(2004)構建一多目標之災後搶修工程與緊急物資配送模式，以供決策單位有效率
決定災害搶修與緊急物資配送之順序，並於有限時間內找出最佳搶修效益和物資配送之計畫
排程。並自行發展一有效之啟發解法以求解此多目標混合整數多重貨物網路流動問題。 
3. 研究方法與模式架構 
3.1 問題特性及定義 
搶修路網的排程規劃，其搶修的緊迫性是需要加以強調的，意即要在最短的時程內，將
道路災點搶通。救災物資和災區內傷患能夠進出，讓災情得以控制住。此外，除了時間的急
迫性外，其它會影響道路搶修排程的因素還包括了道路的服務等級(如國道、省道、縣道等)、
道路災點的緊急程度(如唯一聯外道路、災區傷亡人數等)及救災需求(如橋樑斷裂、道路坍
方、隧道崩塌等)，在搶修單位的有限資源下進行調度排程，以滿足上述所說明的各種情況，
達成緊急時期決策的目標。 
然而不同的天然災害可能造成之道路受創情形不盡相同，無法預期其將於何時何地發
α ：可接受之機率門檻值 
ijτ ：路網節點 i 與節點 j 之間的旅行時間 
3.2.2 緊急搶救排程模式 
針對每個 t 時點建構下列緊急搶救排程模式： 
( )min ,ij ijk
k F i N j N
X E Q Xξτ ξ
∈ ∈ ∈
⎡ ⎤+ ⎣ ⎦∑∑∑
            (1) 
s.t. 
( ) ( ) ( )
' ' ' '
, ij ijk ijk i ijk ijk ijk
i N j N k F i C j C
Q X X X a X X Xξ τ + − + −
∈ ∈ ∈ ∈ ∈
⎡ ⎤= − + + −⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦∑ ∑∑ ∑ ∑            (2) 
WiKX
iFk
i
Nj
ijk ∈∀=∑∑
∈ ∈               (3) 
CiX
Fk cj
ijk ∈∀=∑∑
∈ ∈
1
              (4) 
1 ,ijk
k F i N
X j C i j
∈ ∈
= ∀ ∈ ≠∑∑
              (5) 
FkChXX
Cj
hjk
Ni
ihk ∈∈∀=−∑∑
∈∈
,0
                (6) 
FkjiWjiXijk ∈≠∈∀= ,,,0              (7) 
FkWjCiXijk ∈∈∈∀= ,,0              (8) 
iijk FFkNjWiX \,,0 ∈∈∈∀=             (9) 
FkjiCjNiXrr ijkikjk ∈≠∈∈∀=+= ,,,1 if1          (10) 
0 ,ik ir i W k F= ∀ ∈ ∈               (11) ( ) WiKXXX
iFk
i
Nj
ijkijkijk ∈∀=−+∑∑
∈ ∈
−+
'            (12) ( ) '1
'
CiXXX
Fk CJ
ijkijkijk ∈∀=−+∑∑
∈ ∈
−+
            (13) ( ) jiCjXXX
Fk Ni
ijkijkijk ≠∈∀=−+∑∑
∈ ∈
−+ ,'1
'           (14) ( ) ( ) FkChXXXXXX
Cj
ijkijkhjk
Ni
ijkijkihk ∈∈∀=−+−−+ ∑∑
∈
−+
∈
−+ ,'0
''          (15) 
FkjiWjiXijk ∈≠∈∀=+ ,,,0              (16) 
FkWjCiXijk ∈∈∈∀=+ ,,'0              (17) 
iijk FFkNjWiX \,',0 ∈∈∈∀=+             (18) 
FkjiCjNiXXXifrr ijkijkijkikjk ∈≠∈∈∀=−++′=′ −+ ,,','11       (19) 
iik FkWir ∈∈∀=′ ,0               (20) 
FkNjNiXX ijkijk ∈∈∈∀≤− ,','                (21) 
4. 求解演算法發展 
本研究所構建的災害緊急搶修排程之依時隨機規劃模式為一 NP-Hard 問題，即求解時
間會隨問題規模增大而成指數增加，且本研究所探討的問題為一即時性緊急排程問題，為了
兼顧求解速度及品質，因此將以啟發式演算法加以求解。 
A. 臨界點的界定 
當新災點出現須重新構建工作隊路線時，或某臨界點的出發時間已到時，皆需重新界定
臨界點的位置，以確定當時的問題範圍，排除已搶修完成或已確定指派之災點需求。 
臨界點的位置通常是當T 時刻，工作隊所停留的災點或已在路途中即將前往的災點，即
在T 時刻該工作隊最後一個已確定指派、無法再變更的災點。假設工作隊 k 原規劃行駛路線
為 i→h→j，預定離開 i、h、j 的時間分別是 id 、 hd 及 jd ，當 hi dTd ≤≤ 時，臨界點為 h；當
jh dTd ≤≤ 時，臨界點為 j。 
B. 路線構建演算法 
本研究將以插入法的觀念來建立緊急搶修排程的路線構建演算法。 
步驟 1：更新新增災點集合 
輸入已知災點或新產生的災點 、路段旅行時間 及每一階段預定分析結束時間。  
步驟 2：界定工作隊資料 
求出每組工作隊 路線之臨界點及其可離開時間。 
步驟 3：界定尚未確定指派之道路災點集合。 
步驟 4： 
求出每一個尚未指派災點之最佳插入位置(含離開之時間)及插入成本： 
步驟 4.1：k=1 
步驟 4.2：檢查工作隊 k 搶修總時間限制，若災點需搶修時間符合工作隊 k 的搶修總時
間限制則 
步驟 4.2.1：計算災點在工作隊 k 中每一個插入位置之插入成本及最晚到達時間限
制。 
步驟 4.2.2：記錄災點在工作隊 k 中插入成本最小的可行插入位置及插入成本。 
步驟 4.3：若工作隊 k<總工作隊 K 集合，則 k=k+1，回到步驟 4.2 
步驟 4.4：計算以加派新工作隊搶修災點之成本及時窗限制。 
步驟 4.5：求災點在各工作隊搶修路線及加派新工作隊中的最小插入成本及最佳插入位
置。  
步驟 4.6：回到步驟 4.1 求解下一個尚未指派搶修之災點。 
步驟 5：依最佳插入成本進行指派 
將插入成本最小的災點插入其最佳插入位置中，更新受影響災點之出發時間、抵達時間
等相關變數。 
步驟 6：指派結束判斷 
 
圖 2 路線構建演算法流程圖
所有災點皆已
指派完畢？ 
更新新增災點集合 
界定工作隊資料 
界定尚未確定指派之
道路災點集合 
計算最佳插入位置及
成本 
依最佳插入成本進行
指派 
是 
B 
A 
否
計算所有未指派災點的最
佳插入位置及插入成本 
求得所有未指派災點的最
佳插入路線及其位置、插
入成本 
路線改善︰ 
Or-opt 等 
前50災點分佈
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
 
圖 5 規劃時已知之災點分佈情形 
後50災點分佈
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
 
圖 5 規劃時未知之災點分佈情形 
3. 搶修時間 
同樣利用 beta 分配產生 100 組隨機搶修時間，資料範圍在[5, 20]之間。 
5.2 測試結果分析 
本研究針對隨機性及確定性進行測試分析，考慮未來資訊部分確知，較符合實際應用
的 RP 解，及未來資訊完全已知下所求得的 WS 解。若 EVPI 值愈小表示隨機模式結果愈接
近完全資訊下的結果。 
RP 解︰在隨機性求解過程中，對於已知的前 50 個災點先進行重覆取樣求解動作。本
研究進行 10 次的重覆求解，將此 10 次結果用以改善前 50 個災點的最晚到達時間，藉此縮
小前 50 個災點之時窗範圍，並產生一組 beta 機率分配的平均搶修時間，以求得隨機規劃下
的結果（如表 1 所示）。其中，總完工時間為總旅行時間、總工作時間、總等待時間之總和。
而所謂等待時間係指工作隊完成任務後，於該災點處等待新的指派任務的時間，為其離開
災點時間減到達災點時間及所花費之搶修時間。 
6. 佐藤忠信，一井康二(1996), “Optimization of Post-earthquake Restoration of Lifeline Networks 
Using Genetic Algorithms,” 日本土木學會論文集, No. 537/I-25, pp. 245-256. 
7. 施佑林(2004)，災後工程搶修作業暨賑災物流排程之研究，中央大學土木工程學系碩士論文。 
8. 陳郁文(1999)，模糊多目標組合規劃基因演算法應用於提升運輸系統災後應變效率之研究，交
通大學交通運輸研究所博士論文。 
9. 張立偉(2001)，災後工程緊急搶修作業排程之研究」，淡江大學運輸管理科學系碩士班碩士論
文。 
10. 馮正民、林楨家、王在莒、溫杰炤(2002)，地震災區交通之評估與決策分析(二)永續發展式的災
區重建:921 災區重發展之研究，行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告。 
11. Fiedrich, F., Gehbauer, F. and Ricker, U. (2000), “Optimized Resource Allocation for Emergency 
Response after Earthquake Disasters, Safety Science, Vol. 35, pp.41-57. 
計畫成果自評 
本計畫實際完成之研究內容工作項目計有： 
1. 相關文獻蒐集與探討 
2. 建立隨機緊急搶修排程模型 
3. 發展求解演算法 
4. 程式撰寫與偵錯 
5. 數值例設計與情境測試 
6. 模型初步驗證 
7. 數值例測試 
8. 敏感度分析 
9. 測試結果分析 
10.研究結論與成果彙整 
本研究部分研究成果經整理後，已發表於國際研討會 9th Intelligent Transportation 
Systems Asia-Pacific Forum & Exhibition。後續將繼續整理本計畫研究成果，發表於 SCI 等
級或 SSCI 等級之學術期刊。 
A REAL-TIME EMERGENCY REHABILITATION 
SCHEDULING PROBLEM WITH STOCHASTIC 
DURATION TIME 
 
Mei-Shiang Chang 
Chung Yuan Christian University 
No. 200, Chung Pei Road 
Chung-Li 32023, Taiwan 
E-mail: mschang@cycu.edu.tw 
 
Che-Fu Hsueh 
Ching Yun University 
No. 229, Chien Hsin Road 
Chung-Li 32097, Taiwan 
E-mail:cfhsueh@cyu.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT. Because the duration for rehabilitating a broken roadway depends on 
the degree of destruction brought by the disaster and other uncontrollable factors, we 
assume the duration time can be represented as a stochastic value in this study. In 
addition, the road damage would occur anywhere and anytime. We assume a 
well-developed on-line disaster information system is available; real-time information 
about rehabilitation resources and the road damage could be obtained without any 
difficulties. In this paper, we utilize the rolling-horizontal modeling technique and 
stochastic programming skills to formulate a real-time emergency repair scheduling 
model with stochastic duration time. The objective is to minimize the completion time 
of the work teams, including the total travel time and total working time of the original 
schedules as well as the increment or decrement of the completion time which is 
induced by adding the new damaged points to the original schedules. A series of 
demand-responsive emergency repair schedules is set up. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Natural disasters can disrupt traffic and lifeline systems. The damage of roadway 
systems seriously obstructs the rescue operation. The rehabilitation of roadway 
systems has the highest priority for reconstructing all kinds of lifeline systems. In the 
viewpoint of disaster rescue, hasty and urgent repairs are needed at the first several 
days in order to partially recover the function of the roadway system. Thus, 
ambulances can take injured persons out of the disaster area and relief can be carried 
into the disaster area. Emergency rehabilitation of roadway systems is the first job of 
the disaster-responsive traffic management. 
 
When the roadway system is broken by a disaster, the roadway capacity will be 
obviously reduced. After urgent repairs, the roadway capacity will gradually recover. 
Thus, such a variation of roadway capacity is time-dependent and shown in Figure 1. 
Herein, occurrence of disasters, the end of a disaster period, and reduced capacity of 
broken roads are unpredictable in advance. Consequently, the duration time of 
model and developed a genetic algorithm for determining the reconstruction order and 
the assignment of reconstruction work to work teams. These objectives include 
minimizing road-network reconstruction time and reducing traffic congestion in the 
reconstruction period. Sugimoto and Tamura (2000) also adopted GA to decide which 
work teams should be in charge of which damaged areas and the optimal order of 
restoration. Fiedich et al. (2000) proposed a dynamic combinatorial optimization 
model and a heuristic to determine an optimized resource schedule for assigning 
resources in space and time to the affected areas after strong earthquakes, where the 
objective function is to minimize the total number of facilities during the 
search-and-rescue period. Feng and Wang (2003) presented proposed a zero-one 
integer multi-objective programming model to decide the priority of emergency 
rehabilitation in post-earthquake 72 hours. Xu et al. (2007) present a stochastic 
integer program to determine how to schedule inspection, damage assessment, and 
repair tasks so as to optimize the post-earthquake restoration of the electric power 
system. The objective of the optimization is to minimize the average time each 
customer is without power, and a genetic algorithm is used to solve it. 
 
The emergency repair scheduling problem is a multi-resource multi-period project 
scheduling problem with resource constraints. In fact, the arrival time and the leaving 
time of each type of repair resources are different and depend on the need of 
reconstruction engineering at the damaged point. In order to simplify the complexities 
of this topic, we utilize “work team” to be a unit of the repair capacity. Thus the 
emergency repair scheduling problem can be converted into a vehicle routing problem 
with minor modifications. The essentials of this conversion from a time-dependent 
stochastic-travel-time vehicle routing problem to a time-dependent 
stochastic-duration-time emergency repair scheduling problem are listed in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. Comparison results 
Items 
Time-dependent 
Stochastic-travel-time Vehicle 
Routing Problem 
Time-dependent 
Stochastic-duration-time 
Emergency Repair Scheduling 
Problem 
Depot 
 
multiple depots multiple work stations 
Number of Vehicles 
 
multiple vehicles multiple work teams 
Vehicle Type 
 
single vehicle type the same type of work teams 
Dispatch each vehicle has to come back 
the depot 
each work team does not have 
to come back the work station
Demand Type 
 
time-dependent pick-up or 
delivery demands 
time-dependent emergency 
repair demands 
Capacity demands of one customer is 
less than the capacity of a 
vehicle 
repair demands of one damaged 
point is less than the capacity of 
a work team 
Travel Times 
 
stochastic link travel times stochastic duration times of the 
damaged points 
 
 
 
( )ia ξ′ : the arrival time of damaged point i in the modified plan 
( )id ξ : the duration of repairing the damaged point i is a random 
variable followed a given probability density function 
( )Eξ i : expectation operation 
iK : the number of work teams of work station i 
iU : the upper limit of complete time for the damaged point i 
ijkX : its value is 1 if the work team k repair the damaged point j 
from the damaged point i; otherwise its value is 0 
+
ijkX : its value is 1 if the work team k does not be assigned to 
repair the damaged point j from the damaged point i in the 
original plan, but this assignment is valid in the modified 
plan; otherwise, its value is 0 
−
ijkX : its value is 1 if the work team k is assigned to repair the 
damaged point j from the damaged point i in the original 
plan, but this assignment is canceled in the modified plan; 
otherwise, its value is 0 
α : a threshold of a acceptable probability 
ijτ : travel time between node i and node j, herein nodes 
represent work stations or damaged points 
 
Mathematical Model 
 
At the t stage, the emergency repair scheduling problem is formulated as following. 
 
( )
( )min ,i
i C t
a E Q Xξ ξ
∈
⎡ ⎤+ ⎣ ⎦∑            (1) 
s.t. 
( ) ( ) ( )
( )( )' '
, i ijk ijk ijk
i C t k j C t
Q X a X X Xξ ξ + −
∈ ∈
⎡ ⎤′= + −⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦∑ ∑ ∑        (2) 
( )i
ijk i
k F j N t
X K i W
∈ ∈
= ∀ ∈∑ ∑             (3) 
( )
( )1ijk
k F j c t
X i C t
∈ ∈
= ∀ ∈∑ ∑             (4) 
( ) 0ia i Wξ′ = ∀ ∈              (23) 
( ) ( )( ) ( )i i iP a d U i C tξ ξ′ ′ ′+ ≤ ∀ ∈          (24) 
( ) ( )' , ' ,ijk ijkX X i N t j N t k F− ≤ ∀ ∈ ∈ ∈          (25) 
( ) ( )0 , ,ijkX i N t j C t k F+= ∀ ∈ ∈ ∈           (26) 
( ) ( )0 , ,ijkX i C t j N t k F+= ∀ ∈ ∈ ∈           (27) 
( )0 , ,ijkX i j C t k F+= ∀ ∈ ∈            (28) 
( )1 , ' ,ijk ijkX X i j N t k F++ ≤ ∀ ∈ ∈           (29) 
( )'
0 ( ),ijk k
j C t
X i C t k F+
∈
= ∀ ∈ ∈∑            (30) 
( )'
0 ( ),ijk k
j C t
X i C t k F−
∈
= ∀ ∈ ∈∑            (31) 
{ } ( )0,1 , ' ,ijkX i j N t k F∈ ∀ ∈ ∈           (32) 
{ } ( )0,1 , ' ,ijkX i j N t k F+ ∈ ∀ ∈ ∈           (33) 
{ } ( )0,1 , ' ,ijkX i j N t k F− ∈ ∀ ∈ ∈           (34) 
The objective, eq. (1), is to minimize the total travel times of the original emergency 
repair plan plus the expected value of the total operation times for modifying the 
original plan to subsume the newly damaged points into consideration. Eq. (2) defines 
the total stochastic operation times as an increase or a decrease of total travel times 
and the total stochastic duration times. 
 
Eq. (3) requests that the total number of the work teams departing from or not leaving 
the work station must be equal to the number of work teams under the jurisdiction of 
this work station. Eq. (4) indicates that only one work team departs from the damaged 
point i to other damaged points. Eq. (5) describes that each damaged point j must be 
assigned to a work team to repair it. Eq. (6) explains that work team k can stay at this 
damaged point or go to other damaged points after it completes the repair work of the 
damaged point h. Eq. (7) states that the work team must stay at a damaged point 
once the work team leaves the work station. Relatively, the work team will stay at the 
work station if the repair resources exceed the restoration demands. This constraint is 
peculiar to the emergency repair scheduling problem. Eq. (8) restrains work teams 
from traveling between two work stations. Eq. (9) states that the work team does not 
necessarily have to return to the work station. Eq. (10) requires that each work team 
must depart from its own work station at first. 
 
As shown in eqs. (11)~(13), we use stochastic arithmetic to calculate the arrival time 
of the proposed model and the difference between this model and vehicle routing 
model. We assume one work station and five damaged points are randomly located in 
X-Y coordinates. For the purpose of simplification, only one of the numerical 
experiments is shown in the following. The distance between two points is calculated 
using a simple Cartesian formula as shown in Table 2. Duration times and limits of 
complete time of each damaged points are listed in Table 3. We assume there are 
three to five work teams. The resultant dispatch plan and schedule are respectively 
unfolded in Figures 2~4 and Table 4. Clearly, these results are different to the vehicle 
routing problem. The work teams stay at the damaged points to wait for next jobs after 
they have repaired the roads. In the testing problem with five, four, and three work 
teams, the latest complete time among all the damaged points is respectively 2531.5, 
3414.3, and 3985.2. As the number of work teams decreases, the latest complete 
time increases. Limited repair resources result in this phenomenon. 
 
Table 2. Distance matrix (in minutes) 
 
Work 
Station 
Damaged 
Point 1
Damaged 
Point 2
Damaged 
Point 3
Damaged 
Point 4 
Damaged 
Point 5
Work Station 0.0 34.5 23.6 33.2 46.1 5.4 
Damaged Point 1 34.5 0.0 57.7 56.1 35.2 39.9 
Damaged Point 2 23.6 57.7 0.0 38.2 60.4 18.4 
Damaged Point 3 33.2 56.1 38.2 0.0 78.2 31.6 
Damaged Point 4 46.1 35.2 60.4 78.2 0.0 49.8 
Damaged Point 5 5.4 39.9 18.4 31.6 49.8 0.0 
 
Table 3. Data of the damaged points  
 
Damaged 
Point 1
Damaged 
Point 2
Damaged 
Point 3
Damaged 
Point 4 
Damaged 
Point 5
Duration Time (minutes) 2497 2449 828 1407 1575 
Limit of Complete Time (minutes) 3017 2999 3090 3530 2916 
 
1
2
3
4
5
Station
 
Figure 2. Dispatch results using five work teams 
CONCLUSION REMARKS 
 
From the viewpoint of users, 9 user service bundles and 35 user service units 
constitute the basic framework of intelligent transportation system in Taiwan. 
Emergency relief management service, one of the user service bundles, includes 
emergency accident notice, emergency service vehicle management, and nature 
disaster traffic management. The nature disaster traffic management receives more 
and more attentions as global warming escalates and global climate change gradually 
deteriorates. Providing the exceptional climate information and disaster-responsive 
traffic management service are urgently needed once a nature disaster occurs. The 
latter one needs more research. In this study, we present some idea about emergency 
repair scheduling. We believe this is only a beginning. For the further studies, many 
issues would be tackled including multi-objective programming (e.g. maximizing the 
performance of emergency rehabilitation, minimizing the risk of rescuers, and 
maximizing the savings of life, etc.), and application-oriented heuristics developing. 
  
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, under 
Grants NSC 96-2221-E-033-076. 
 
 
REFERENCE 
 
Arimura, M., Tamura, T. and Saito. K. (1999). “Application of Genetic Algorithms 
Model for Road Investment of Restoration Planning”. Proceedings of the Eastern 
Asia Society for Transportation Studies, 2, 55-69.  
Chen, Y.W. and Tzeng, G.H. (1999). “A Fuzzy Multi-objective Model for 
Reconstructing the Post-quake Road-Network by Genetic Algorithm”. International 
Journal of Fuzzy Systems, 1(2), 85-95. 
Feng, C.-M. and Wang, T.-C. (2003). “Highway Emergency Rehabilitation Scheduling 
in Post-Earthquake 72 Hours”. Journal of the Eastern Asia Society for 
Transportation Studies, 5, 3276-3285. 
Fiedrich, F., Gehbauer, F. and Rickers, U. (2000). “Optimized Resource Allocation for 
Emergency Response after Earthquake Disasters”. Safety Science, 35, 41-57. 
Nojima, N. and Kameda, H. (1992). “Optimal Strategy by Use of Tree Structure for 
Post-Earthquake Restoration of Lifeline Network System.” Proceedings of the 10th 
World Conference on Earthquake Engineering, Rotterdam, Netherlands, 
5541–5546. 
Sato, T. and Ichii, K. (1996). “Optimization of Post-Earthquake Restoration of Lifeline 
Networks Using Genetic Algorithms”. Japan Society of Civil Engineers, 537(I-35), 
245-256 (in Japanese). 
Sugimoto, H. and Tamura, T. (2000). “Support System for Restoration Process of 
Disaster-Stricken Lifeline Networks by GA”. Report of Fundamental Research on 
