2Enhancement of maintenance decision making using a fuzzy
logic model
Kun-Yung Lu*, Chun-Chin, Sy**
*Corresponding author, Department of Electronics Engineering, National United University,
1 Lien Kung, Kung Ching Li, Miao, Li, Taiwan 360
E-mail: *carlu@nuu.edu.tw, ** E-mail: silk@nuu.edu.tw
Abstract
Maintenance problems are frequently accompanied with certainty and uncertainty
conditions. Normally, problems with the uncertainty conditions include difficulty in
identifying an optimal solution using traditional mathematical approaches. This study
proposed a fuzzy logic model for maintenance decision-making. Based on the
experiences of domain experts, some linguistic variables and rules-of-thumb were
used for forming the fuzzy logic model. The historical maintenance logs were used for
training and tuning the model. The proposed model can assist the production
controller in identifying a trust index of the maintenance time estimation under
conditions of uncertainty. The production controller can make suitable production
decisions based on this trust index.
Keywords: Fuzzy logic; Maintenance management; Decision making; Uncertainty
management
1. Introduction
Globalization and strong competition have forced companies to change the ways
in which they do business (Ng and Ip, 1998). Facing shortening product life cycles,
numerous manufacturers have been driven to shift their production strategies from
build-to-forecast to build-to-order or configuration-to-order to reduce inventories and
achieve a beneficial position in a global supply chain (Chen et al., 2003). However,
the limitations of short lead times, numerous product types and small order lot sizes
have led to serious control and logistics problems in production systems.
Owing to the market trend away from mass production and towards mass
customization, a flexible manufacturing system is generally used to fabricate products
in small batches and meet numerous specific orders. New technologies and novel
equipment are generally employed for arranging the production line. These
technologies and equipments are frequently complex to maintain (Hipkin and Cock,
2000).
Given an order schedule involving jobs assigned to the production line, the
machine maintenance-scheduling problem involves determining which machines
should be scheduled for normal production, preventive maintenance, corrective
4(Baykoç and Erol, 1998). In reality, the above assumptions are impractical due to the
features of the shop floor system. Especially, machines or equipment may suddenly
breakdown and become impossible to rapidly repair. Although applying information
technology can reduce the load of the production controller, the above problems might
create imbalances in the production line, making schedules difficult to control (Yu et
al., 2003).
For maintaining smooth production capability, manufacturers are well aware that
maintenance contributes significantly to total cost reduction and performance
improvement (Hipkin, and Cock, 2000; Pham, and Wang, 1996). Numerous studies
have also stressed the importance of maintenance and proposed maintenance
strategies (Al-Najjar and Alsyouf, 2003). Possible maintenance policies generally
include used based maintenance (UBM), condition based maintenance (CBM), failure
based maintenance (FBM), design-out maintenance (DOM) and detection based
maintenance (DBM) (Waeyenbergh, and Pitelon, 2004). In modern production
systems, select an exact maintenance policy becomes a key decision for production
managers. However, the production controller focuses only on failure based
maintenance, to ensure broken machines are repaired immediately for restoring the
production line (Wang, 2002).
In the event of a machine breakdown, the production controller must immediately
switch the current job to another machine or wait until the machine is repaired. The
break-even point of the decision is the comparison of changing cost and maintenance
cost. If the cost lost caused by the waiting time associated with maintenance is lower
than the cost of changing the machine, the decision is “wait”; otherwise, the decision
is“change”.
Based on the case studied by Swanson, the high level of capital intensity
associated with automated equipments places greater pressure on the maintenance
function to rapidly repair equipment and prevent failures (Swanson, 2003). Owing to
the intricacies associated with new technologies, the maintenance function must cope
with managing many different maintenance craft classifications and increasingly
complex organizational structures, including plant size, unionization, technological
variety, advanced manufacturing technology, maintenance information systems, and
so on (Swanson, 1999; Swanson, 2001). All of these complexities make decisions
regarding resource allocation and work scheduling more difficult for maintenance
owing to their intrinsic uncertainty. Generally, the sources of uncertainty include weak
implications, imprecise language, unknown data, and confusion among different
experts (Negnevitsky, 2002). Consequently, it is difficult to precisely estimate
maintenance time.
The most significant factor in estimating maintenance time is effectively coping
6Fig. 1. Working principles of fuzzyTECH.
This study employed the fuzzyTECH software, produced by INFORM GmbH, for
uncertainty evaluation (fuzzyTECH, 2001). fuzzyTECH allows users to establish an
independent fuzzy project based on the specified environment. Meanwhile, the
relevant parameters and fuzzy interface can be stored in text format. While running
the fuzzyTECH, the designated parameter file is invoked to process the fuzzy
procedures, and the generalized fuzzy results are outputted to the pre-defined object
file.
Additionally, fuzzyTECH combines the neural network technique with the fuzzy
logic for improving the conventional fuzzy technique without learning ability. The
user can adopt the NueroFuzzy function of the fuzzyTECH to train the designated
project using a pre-setup data file, and to tune the relative parameters. The
fuzzyTECH enables the user to set the initial DoS (Degree of Support) value via the
user defined method or by the random method. During training, the relevant
parameters, such as DoS and membership functions, are adjusted to enable the output
of the fuzzy project to fit the actual environment. Finally the user can employ the
Alpha-cut method to eliminate the rules which DoS value lower than the user defined
one, thus simplifying the project and reducing the inference time.
The fuzzy inference of fuzzyTECH comprises three components:
 Aggregation: computation of the If part of the rules. This step calculates the
support of the rule relative to the condition.
 Composition: computation of the Then part of the rules. This step determines the
degree of truth of the rule.
 Results Aggregation: Following the computation of the degrees of truth for the
rules, this step determines which rules contribute to the defuzzified result.
During the aggregation stage, fuzzyTECH applies three methods for inference
computation:
Fuzzification
Inference Rule Base
Aggregation
Defuzzification
Input
Variables
Crisp Output
8time.
Based on discussions and conclusions of QCC group, this study summarized
some significant variables, such as breakdown complexity, maintenance capability,
work place interference, managerial strategy, and so on, to create the fuzzy logic
model. Breakdown complexity is usually determined by the factors of breakdown
degree, machine age, and maintenance status, for example preventive, corrective,
detection-based, etc. Maintenance personnel numbers and skill levels determine
maintenance capability. Normally, field spaces, managerial culture and strategy, and
lateral relations are synthesized to produce an interference index.
Table 1 listed the respective linguistic members of the summarized variables. A
questionnaire, shown in Table 2, was used to obtain the domain experiences of ten
experts (one rule per sheet). Originally, 352 rules were gathered. Some rules were
redundant, and were simplified and combined using set theory. Finally, the number of
rules was reduced to 268. Normally, the decision rules can be represented in the
form “If …Then …”, as illustrated in Fig. 2. Figure 3 demonstrated partial decision
rules in spreadsheet format. Based on these variables and decision rules the proposed
fuzzy project was created as shown in Fig. 4, using the editor of fuzzyTECH.
Table 1 Summarization of decision variables and corresponding linguistic members
Variables Linguistic Members
BKD_degree First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth
MC_age Very-young, Young, Middle, Old, Very-old
PM_status Normal, Bad, Good
BKD_complex Low, Medium, High
MT_mpower Weak, Enough, Strong
MT_skill Poor, Good, Excellent
MT_capa Poor, Normal, Good
ITF_element Light, Normal, Heavy
MT_prob Low, Medium, High
Table2 Example of questionnaire for decision rule investigation
Decision Variable Corresponding ResultRule
No.
Connecting
Operator (and/or) Name Status Name Status
1 BKD_degree First
And MC_age Very_young
And PM_status Normal BKD_complex Low
10
Figure 5 shows the final membership functions of respective decision variables.
Fig. 5. Membership functions.
5. Project testing and tuning
To verify project availability, the most important step is using practical data to
train and refine the proposed model. Based on the testing results, this study slightly
adjusts the membership functions or the value of DoS of the respective linguistic
variable to enable the model to fit the physical environment. Owing to most data in
historical maintenance logs having a quantified format, these data must be fuzzified.
The fuzzified data then can be loaded into the model to verify the proposed project.
This study suggested a transforming scale, listed in Table 3, for data fuzzification.
Three-hundred recent maintenance logs were used for model testing. To precisely
estimate the possible expectation time, the completion times of the maintenance logs
were classified into five ranks: less than 0.5 hours (45 records), less than 1 hour and
exceeding 0.5 hours (74 records), less than 2 hours and more than 1 hour (86 records),
less than 3 hours and more than 2 hours (55 records), and greater than 3 hours (40
records). The proposed model was tested on each of the above ranking records using
the following procedures:
BKD_degree MC_age PM_status
MT_mpower MT_skill ITF_element
BKD_complex MT_capa MT_prob
12
Fig. 6. Interactive debug window for project modification.
Owing to the intrinsic membership function, the lower generalized fuzziness value
cannot map to 0 and the upper value cannot map to 1. Referring the generalized
results displayed in Fig. 7, the fuzziness values of the worst and best cases are 0.2506
and 0.839, respectively. The output fuzziness values must be normalized for
defuzzification. Equation 7 is applied to normalize the output value for establishing a
trust index.
)2506.0839.0(/)2506.0(  vfTI -------------------------------------------------- 7
Where
TI denotes the trust index of the maintenance possibility.
fv represents the output fuzziness value.
Fig. 7. Fuzziness values of worst and best cases.
For example, if the output fuzziness value is 0.7722, the TI is normalized as 0.886.
This TI value indicates a belief that the machine can be corrected with the 0.886 trust
index in expected maintenance time.
Based on the testing results mentioned above, this study derived five fuzzy
projects according to the classified ranks of maintenance time. Thirty recent cases
were checked for inspecting project precision. The checking procedures were
Best Case : Fv=0.839Worst Case :Fv=0.2506
14
7. Discussion and conclusions
Maintenance problems are frequently accompanied by uncertainty. Meanwhile,
uncertainty conditions are generally associated with technical complexity, variable
resource capacity, unpredictable breakages, and so on. Normally, problems with
uncertainty conditions include difficulty in identifying optimal solutions by traditional
mathematical approaches. This study proposed a fuzzy logic model for maintenance
decision-making. Based on the experiences of domain experts, some linguistic
variables and rules-of-thumb were used to create the fuzzy logic model. The proposed
model can assist the production controller in finding a trust index of the maintenance
time with the uncertainty condition. Based on this trust index, the production
controller can make appropriate production decisions.
In a competitive market, quickly responding to customer requirements is a crucial
success factor for most manufacturers. Generally, it is not difficult to implement
commitments to maintain (smooth machine operations). Commonly, machines
breakdown in the event of wearing-out, abnormally operations, defective preventive
maintenance, etc. Maintaining continuous operation of the production line is an
important responsibility for production controllers. The main contribution of this
study lies in simultaneously aggregating the linguistic and quantitative variables in a
quantified trust index to provide the production controller with assistance in making
suitable decisions.
Acknowledgment
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of
China, Taiwan for financially supporting this research under Contract No. NSC
93-2213-E239-005.
References
Adebiyi, K. A., Ojediran J. O., and Oyenuga, O. A., 2004. An appraisal of
maintenance practice in food industries in Nigeria. Journal of Food Engineering
62, pp. 131-133.
Al-Najjar, B. and Alsyouf, I., 2003. Selecting the most efficient maintenance approach
using fuzzy multiple criteria decision making. International Journal of Production
Economics 84, pp.85-100.
Baykoç, Ö. F. and Erol, S., 1998. Simulation modelling and analysis of a JIT production
system. International Journal of Production Economics 55, pp.203-212,
Belt, B., 1987. MRP and Kanban –A possible synergy? Production and Inventory
Management Journal First Quarter, pp.71-80.
Benton, W. C. and Shin, H., 1998. Manufacturing planning and control: The evolution of
MRP and JIT integration. European Journal of Operational Research 110, pp.411-440.
