Abstract
The paper studies the performance of cooperative Automatic-Repeat-reQuest
(ARQ) protocols that employ opportunistic distributed space-time coding (ODSTC)
for signal relaying. According to the relay selection methods in ARQs, three
types of protocols are considered herein which allow us to examine the
efficiencies of ODSTC in regards of the number of ARQs, the methods for relay
selections and the number of relays for ODSTC. The efficiencies are studied
from both the perspective of diversity and multiplexing tradeoff and the
viewpoint of the delay and outage limited throughput. Analysis shows that the
efficiencies are highly dependent on the link qualities of the relay channels.
When the link quality between the source and the relays, or the quality between
the relays and the destination are much stronger than the quality between the
source and the destination, then simple protocols that use at most two active
relays for ODSTC (ODSTC2), with the candidate relays determined only once at
the start of relaying with ODSTC, are good enough to provide a near optimal
performance. Other than these two extreme channel environments, the performance
of ARQ is typically limited by the number of relays available for ODSTC. This
relay shortage problem can be resolved by allowing idle relays to overhear the
signals sent by active relays, and to participate in ODSTC of the subsequent
ARQs once decoding the data. According to our theoretical and simulated analysis,
in general, a significant throughput enhancement can be obtained via using an
appropriate ARQ protocol that employs ODSTC2 for two times of retransmissions,
and no more than five relays are practically necessary for the entire system.
These features of ODSTC may have more profound effects on the system throughput
from a cross-layer point of view when considering the queuing advantage of ODSTC
over a DSTC protocol that may involve more numbers of retransmissions in ARQ.
Keywords
Cooperative relaying, opportunistic DSTC, ARQ, DMT and the delay and outage
limited throughput.
I. INTRODUCTION
Cooperative communications have emerged as a new paradigm for wireless
communications. Since the work of [1-4], a host of cooperative schemes have
been introduced to enhance the system capacity and/or transmission reliability,
either through user cooperations or via signal relaying (see [5-12] and the
references therein). In view of the cost advantages of relay stations and the
performance enhancement that can be brought about with signal relaying,
cooperative relaying has been incorporated in IEEE802.16j [13] and other more
advanced international standards like IEEE802.16m [14] and 3GPP LTE-Advanced
[15], which are under development for the fourth generation cellular networks.
To exploit the spatial diversity offered by distributed relays, distributed
versions of space-time coding (DSTC) and beamforming (DBF) schemes have been
widely studied and reported in literatures, (see [7,12,16] among
others), following the notions of decode-and-forward (DF) or
amplify-and-forward (AF) relaying introduced in [2,3]. However, to fully
exploit the rich diversities available from multiple relays, the design and
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 3 頁
Type-C protocol to enlarge the set of available relays during the process of
ARQs, the three types of protocols are in fact the same for the first ARQ, which
allows us to compare the performance of ARQ that uses ODSTC with the one that
uses the regular DSTC, given the same number of relays for space-time coding
(STC). Besides, the different functions in the subsequent ARQs allow us to
evaluate the effectiveness of the additional procedure for relay reselections
and compare the efficiencies of their corresponding ARQ protocols either from
the perspective of DMT or from the viewpoint of the delay and outage limited
throughput.
According to the system parameters that may affect the outage probabilities
of the ARQ protocols, we study the protocols' efficiencies in regards of the
number of ARQs, the methods for relay reselections and the number of relays
used for ODSTC. Besides, we also examine the effects of the link qualities of
the cooperative channels on the performance of the three types of protocols.
Analysis shows that either the DMTs or the throughput of these protocols are
highly dependent on the ratios of the link qualities among the source, relays
and the destination. When the ratio of the link quality from the source to
the relays (S-R) to the link quality from the source to the destination (S-D)
is high enough, the relay channel degenerates to a MISO one at high SNR. The
Type-B protocol can achieve the DMT of the Type-C protocol in this class of
channels. On the contrary, when the ratio of the link quality from the relays
to the destination (R-D) to the link quality of S-D is high enough, then the
relay channel resembles a single input and multiple output (SIMO) channel with
antenna selection. The destination in this case can decode the data as long
as any one of the relays is able to do so. As a result, the three types of
protocols perform exactly the same in this class of channels. Other than these
two extreme operating environments, in the diversities
of ARQs are typically limited by the cardinality, , of the set of relays
that successfully decode the data. Only the Type-C protocol can resolve this
relay shortage problem and achieve the full diversity of cooperative ARQ by
allowing relays to overhear the signals sent by the active relays ,
and to participate in ODSTC once becoming in the subsequent ARQs.
On the other hand, according to the efficiency analysis for the throughput
in , the S-R to S-D link ratio, , can be roughly
partitioned into three operating regimes as well. When is large enough such
that is very close to the total number of relays in the system, then using
at most two active relays for ODSTC (ODSTC2) in the Type-B protocol provides
a near optimal throughput. However, when is small such that with high
probability, then the Type-C protocol with ODSTC2 is capable enough to resolve
this relay shortage problem and provide significant throughput enhancement
through its repetitive process of overhearing and relay reselection. Other than
these two extreme channel conditions, either the Type-A protocol with ODSTC2
or the Type-B protocol with OR provide satisfactory throughput. Based on our
theoretical and simulation studies, in general, no more than five relays are
practically necessary for the entire system, and using ODSTC2 for two times
of ARQs is good enough to offer a significant throughput enhancement with the
proposed ARQ protocols, as opposed to the four times or more of ARQs that use
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 5 頁
probability point of view. The relay channels are considered flat faded and
complex Gaussian distributed with zero mean and unit variance, denoted by
. Furthermore, channel coefficients are assumed unchanged within the
duration of a transmission, and change randomly according to from one
transmission to another. In addition, to simplify our performance investigations,
perfect synchronization is assumed achievable for the relays to perform ARQs
with ODSTC.
Though somewhat idealized, the above channel assumptions are practical for
wireless communications standards such as [13-15] based on the orthogonal
frequency division multiple access (OFDMA). Besides, to characterize the
influences of the relay channels' link qualities on the DMT and the delay and
outage limited throughput, we further assume that the relays receive the same
signal power, , from the source, and, similarly, that the destination also
receives the same signal power, , from the relays. This type of channel
setting can be associated to a relay grouping mode considered in IEEE802.16j
[13] where a group of relays are geometrically close to each other, while
are located in a distance from the source and the destination as illustrated
in Fig. 2. In addition, when is large enough such that the cardinality of ,
denoted by , is equal to or at least with very high probability,
the relay channel degenerates to a MISO one. This simplified setting allows
us to compare our results with the existing ones for MISO channels.
Fig. 2. The geometrical relationship between the source, relays and the destination.
According to the above assumptions, let be the channel coefficients
between the source and the destination (S-D), and be the coefficients
between the source and the relays (S-R), . The corresponding received signals
and are modeled as
(1)
(2)
where the noises, and , at the destination and the relays ,
respectively, are all modeled as . Based on this signal model, the
mutual information between the source and the relays, , is given by
(3)
Thus given the , the decoding set is more specifically defined herein as
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 7 頁
of the ARQ protocols that employ ODSTC for relaying
Let . Suppose that the ODSTC relaying scheme chooses at
most elements of that yield the highest mutual information in (5). Clearly,
of the largest elements in will be chosen for DSTC. Therefore, sorting
the elements of in the ascending order into such that
if , the outage probability of the ODSTC conditioned on is then
given by
(9)
Given that is assigned according to the average SNR, , the destination
will immediately know whether or not when the perfect knowledge of
is assumed available for the destination to choose the relays for ODSTC. In
this case, can be considered as the probability that the destination
will wait for another ARQ. On the other hand, in cases where the channel state
information (CSI) is imperfect or outdated, or for the Type-C ARQ protocol to
be introduced later which requires relays not in to overhear the signals
sent by the relays in such that the destination will still issue ARQs even
if outages may occur, then can be viewed as an idealized lower bound
for the packet error rate. In any event, the outage probability (9) can be
evaluated with a theorem quoted below from [25].
Theorem 1: [25] Let be the order statistics from
identical and independently distributed ( ) exponential random variables
(RVs) with parameter . Define . The
complementary cumulative distributed function (CCDF) of is given by:
(10)
with , and .
Applying (10) to (9), the resultant outage probability of is given by
(11)
with , and . Based on the above
results, the outage probability for a direct transmission followed by an ARQ
with ODSTC using , , relays is given by
(12)
For convenience of expression, and to distinguish from the ordinary DSTC
protocol, we use ODSTCi in the sequel to signify the use of relays at most
for ODSTC in ARQs. For ODSTC1, the outage probability is equal to that of the
opportunistic relaying (OR) in [10], while for ODSTCM, it is equal to the typical
DSTC relaying scheme in [2].
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 9 頁
(20)
since and at high SNR with . Now in cases where
, then the summation in the right hand side of (20) will be dominated
by the event of . Furthermore, if such that
(21)
then (20) can be approximated at high SNR as
(22)
This corresponds to an operating scenario where outage events are mainly
attributed to the link failures between the source and the relays. The R-D link
strength is so much higher than the S-R link strength such that the destination
is able to decode the signal as long as at least one of the relays is able to
do so. Except for this extreme operating condition, in normal channel
environments of relaying, we usually have
(23)
Therefore, following the definition of diversity given by [26]
(24)
the diversity and multiplexing tradeoff (DMT) [26] on can be partitioned
into two regimes with respect to ( ) . They are summarized below as
(25)
The threshold SNR not only is determined by the ratio between
and , but also by the multiplexing gain itself.
Given the DMT, the coding gain with ODSTCi relaying can be defined
accordingly at high SNR as
(26)
As a result, we have
(27)
Since the first row corresponds to a situation where the destination is not
able to decode the signal until at least one of the relays is able to decode
the signal successfully, the diversity in this case increases by
for each ARQ and the coding gain is not a function of any more, making it
no need to use for more than one relay in this scenario.
On the other hand when , every ODSTCi scheme, , still
achieves the same diversity as expected, while with different coding gains.
According to (26), the SNR loss of using ODSTCi than DSTC can be quantified
as the extra SNR required by the ODSTCi to achieve the same level of the outage
probability, , achieved with the DSTC at high SNR. Let ,
the SNR loss of ODSTCi is thus defined as
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 11 頁
Fig. 4. The SNR losses of ODSTCi at high SNR for and . Subplot (a) corresponds to the
results for and , while subplot (b) also includes the results for when .
Then, it follows directly from (25), (26) and (28) that
(30)
This shows that when the relay channel resembles a MISO one when ,
become irrelevant of and , and decrease exponentially as
verified both in subplots (a) and (b) when .
In contrast, if , instead, then become very small . If
continues to increase such that , then by (27), it follows
that . The destination under this channel condition can decode the
signal as long as any one of the relays is able to do so. Thus, the number
of does not really matter in this case. Opportunistic relaying (ODSTC1)
appears to be the best choice in this type of channels.
IV. OUTAGE PROBABILITIES OD COOPERATIVE ARQ WITH ODSTC RELAYING
We have studied and characterized the effectiveness of ODSTCi the link
qualities of a relay channel. To further exploit the opportunistic diversities
offered by ODSTCi, we extend this notion to ARQ and study effective protocols
with ODSTCi. Three types of cooperative protocols are considered herein to
exploit both the temporal and spatial diversities provided by ARQs with ODSTCi.
Each one of them requires different levels of coordinations among the source,
relays and the destination.
A: Type-A Cooperative ARQ
As introduced earlier, whenever outages occur and , the destination
will issue an ARQ to the source. Once , by ODSTCi, the most
straightforward method is to choose in the beginning the best
relays out of to maximize (5) at the destination, and then continue to use
these relays in the subsequent ARQs if needed. As such, the Type-A protocol
considered herein essentially involves two kinds of relaying methods: the
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 13 頁
same relays for retransmission with DSTCi whose outage events are marked as
in the figure, with a probability equal to (31). The time sequence of these
outage events is shown as a row of ellipses linked by green arrows from left
to right in the figure.
On the other hand, if after broadcasting, then the source will
rebroadcast the signal in case of outages, which will, in turn, invoke another
source broadcasting if an outage still happens and as well. Otherwise,
it will initiate another sequence of ARQs the same to what is described above
for if outages continue to happen. Since and
condition on only, not on the specific relays in , it is clear from the
tree diagram of Fig. 5 that the outage probability can be expressed in a
recursive form of
(33)
Expanding this recursive form directly gives the result of (32). ▓
B: Type-B Cooperative ARQ
Though simple, the diversity order of the Type-A protocol might be very
limited after ARQ2 as the opportunistic diversity is no longer available due
to the fixed relaying thereafter. Intuitively, a quick modification to resolve
this problem is to have the active relays be re-chosen from according
to the channel strength in each round of ARQ. We refer to this type of ARQ as
the Type-B protocol. Due to this re-selection mechanism, we know that
in (32) for the Type-A protocol should be replaced by in this case.
This gives the outage probability for the Type-B ARQ protocol, summarized in
the following corollary.
Corollary 1: Given , , and , the outage probability after
times of the Type-B ARQs is given by
(34)
with .
Compared with the Type-A protocol, apparently, the Type-B requires all
relays in to hold the decoded data for retransmission until the end of ARQs.
However, checking in (34), one may soon find that the diversity order
might still be limited by the event of dominates the other
. This situation may happen when the link quality between the
source and the relays is poor, and would make the Type-B protocol rather
ineffective, taking into account the extra efforts to re-select the relays in
each ARQ. A quick remedy to this diversity shortage problem is to allow
overhearing on the non-active relays. Nevertheless, a thorough comparative
studies on the diversity orders of the proposed protocols will be provided in
Section V.
C: Type-C Cooperative ARQ
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 15 頁
Fig. 6. The outage events of the Type-C ARQ protocol.
to be
(38)
with . A general formula is provided in the following proposition.
Proposition 3: Given , , and , the outage probability after
times of the Type-C ARQs is given by
(39)
with and .
Proof: The proof follows a similar approach used in proving Proposition
2. Again, the outage events that may occur in the Type-C protocol are illustrated
as a tree diagram in Fig. 6. From left to right and top to bottom, the figure
shows that the source will rebroadcast the signal until , namely ,
if outages continue to happen. Suppose that turns nonzero at the ( )th
ARQ. If an outage still happens, then the ODSTCi will start to be used for
retransmission by opportunistically choosing relays out of
that maximize (5) at the end of the ( )th ARQ. It is noted that the
cardinality of will continue to grow as shown in the figure due to the
overhearing mechanism.
If outages still continue to happen, then the ODSTCi will continue to be
used for retransmissions as well, while re-choosing relays
from at the end of the ( )th ARQ, when the retransmission takes place
at the ( )th ARQ after . The time sequence of these outage events is
shown as a row of ellipses linked by green arrows from left to right in the
figure. The arrows in different darkness represent different numbers of
retransmissions after , thus corresponding to different cardinalities,
, of .
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 17 頁
Fig. 8. Outage probabilities for and of ODSTCi after three times of ARQs. Subplot (a)
corresponds to and subplot (b) corresponds to with , , and .
On the other hand, the outage probabilities of the Type-A and B protocols
are presented in Fig. 8(a) and 8(b), respectively, under the same simulation
setting. Different from the Type-C protocol, the outage probabilities of the
Type-A protocol merge together at high SNR when . However, the results of
the Type-B have no difference at all in the high SNR regime for any value of
. This implies that no more than one active relay is needed for the Type-B
protocol and that the simplest Type-A protocol can perform equally well with
the Type-B protocol at high SNR, using only two active relays. This is because
the Type-A and B protocols are actually the same when both use ODSTCM=DSTCM
for retransmissions. The characteristics are so different in the outage
probabilities of the three types of ARQ protocols, yet they all indicate that
the need for using more relays decreases drastically by using ODSTC, which
motivates us to investigate the relay efficiency of ODSTCi for each type of
the ARQ protocols. We study this problem from both the perspective of DMT and
that of the delay and outage limited throughput. The results are presented in
Section V and VI, respectively.
V. Diversity and Multiplexing Tradeoffs
To study the relay efficiency, or the efficiency of using more relays, in
ODSTCi for different ARQ protocols, we first characterize the DMT of each
protocol based on the outage formulas provided in Section IV. We then compare
their DMTs under different link qualities parameterized by , and . To
alleviate the complexity of analysis, the DMT is investigated in the high SNR
regime only. Furthermore, to simplify the expression, the data rate for source
transmission is defined as [26] and the code rate for ODSTCi is
defined as where is referred to as the multiplexing gain [26].
A. DMT of the Type-A Protocol
To analyze the DMT from (32) of the Type-A protocol, it is also necessary
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 19 頁
phenomenon can be delayed to happen with a higher value of as suggested in
the form of in (44). If we have , then the chances for will
become zero, which corresponds to an extreme case of a by 1 MISO channel.
The diversity will remain to be in this case when
.
On the other hand, when , packets transmitted from the relays can
be more successfully decoded at the destination than packets transmitted from
the source and decoded at the relays. The destination is able to decode the
data as long as there is more than one relay being able to do so. Therefore,
the source will continue to retransmit the data until the destination
successfully decodes it. However, this happens only when the relays fail in
decoding all together. Thus, the diversity increases by for every extra
ARQ, which also means that the probability for this to happen drops very quickly
when gets larger. Eventually when , the probability becomes so small
that the outage probability starts to be dominated by the event of that
gives the lowest diversity, causing a diversity loss from
to .
Similarly, this diversity loss problem can be delayed to happen with a higher
value of as suggested in the form of in (45). When , it will
guarantee a 100-percent decoding as long as a relay is able to decode the data.
This corresponds to another extreme case of a 1 by SIMO channel. The
diversity will remain at in this case when .
For the case of , the arguments for no longer apply since the
diversity will always be equal to . However, similar arguments
for also apply for . Besides, also implies
as shown in Appendix-C.3, and thus
(48)
due to the fact that
(49)
Based on the above results, without the loss of generality, by (24), the DMT
of the Type-A protocol is summarized as
(50)
B: DMT of the Type-B Protocol
For the DMT of the Type-B protocol, given (13), (14) and (19), the high-SNR
approximation of its outage probability, (32), can be easily shown to be
(51)
where we have defined and , and also set
and . Following a similar procedure done in Proposition 4 for
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 21 頁
. Namely, no overhearing relay is able to decode the
DSTC signal sent by the active relays. The Type-C protocol will degenerate to
the Type-B protocol in this case
Given , applying (57) to (37) yields
(59)
Now, set in (13) and (14), and in (56) and (59). Substituting
the results back into (39) gives the high-SNR approximation of :
(60)
where
(61)
Clearly, the second term on the RHS of (60) is dominated at high SNR by the
feasible pairs of , , that minimize
. Since , we have . The
equality always holds if . For , we define the subset of that
satisfies the lower bound in times of ARQs as
(62)
for , and . The algorithm to construct is provided
in the following proposition.
Proposition 5: Assume and .
˙ Let
˙ For to ,
1. Generate
(63)
(64)
2. Set
Proof: The proof is provided in Appendix-E. ▓
Given and, thus, , we obtain
(65)
where
(66)
Since the order of in (65) decreases when increases, keeping only the
dominant term corresponding to , we obtain at high SNR
(67)
The diversity order of (67) is always equal to except for the
case of
(68)
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 23 頁
Fig. 10. The outage probabilities of the three types of ARQ protocols with ODSCT3 when , ,
and . Subplot (a) shows both the exact and the approximated curves of for
, and subplot (b) compares the high-SNR approximations of for and 3.
This shows that, except for ARQs with OR (ODSTC1), other ODSTCi schemes perform
exactly the same as the ODSTCM does at high SNR after twice retransmissions.
Therefore, if we follow a definition similar to (28) in Section III to
characterize the SNR losses of using ODSTCi than DSTC for the Type-A protocol,
then we will obtain
(71)
and , for . This explains the special advantage of ODSTC2 over
the OR observed both in Fig. 8 (a) and 9 (a).
On the other hand, to justify the results of Fig. 8 (b), we recall (52) in
Section V-B. Define a similar coding gain for the Type-B protocol as follows
(72)
Again, following the definition of (28), we obtain
(73)
This shows that if is large enough such that , or in other words, when
the performance is mainly limited by the S-R link quality, then ODSTCi can
introduce effective coding gains by using more relays. Otherwise, there would
be no need to us for more than one relay. This justifies the simulation result
presented in Fig. 8 (b). In fact, under this channel condition, the Type-A
protocol performs exactly the same as the Type-B protocol at high SNR when
since , and .
In comparison to Fig. 9 (a) where and , Fig. 9 (b) presents the
simulation results for and . This simulation setting can be
associated to a scenario where a group of five relays are located close to each
other and situated in the way between the source and the destination. For
and , the relays are 8 times closer to the source than from
the destination to the source under a power decay exponent of 3.
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 25 頁
Ordinary channel
Type-A , (SIMO + ant. selection)
Type-B , (MISO) , (SIMO + ant. selection)
Type-C , (MISO) , (SIMO + ant. selection)
TABLE I
The diversity orders of the Type-A, B and C ARQ protocols when under different link ratios
parameterized by and .
not seem to be meaningful at low SNR even if here. For the Type-B protocol,
by (55) the diversity of should increase to
when dB for . However,
the high-SNR analysis becomes inaccurate at this range of SNR. As can be seen
in Fig. 11 (a), starts to deviate away from its high-SNR approximation
even when . A similar problem also occurs to whose
high-SNR approximation becomes inaccurate when dB.
Despite the accuracy of diversity, the high-SNR analysis does show that all
three types of ARQ protocols perform exactly the same when is small and
is large enough such that and . Besides, as shown in
Fig. 11 (b), increases to 6.6414 dB when is increased to 512, which
verifies the result of (45).
Based on the analytical and simulated results presented so far, the relay
channel can be roughly classified into three operating regimes. When the S-R
to S-D link ratio, , is high, or more specifically, when , the relay
channel degenerates to a MISO one at high SNR. Suppose that , then
the Type-A protocol has a diversity order of , and
the Type-B has which is the same to of the Type-C
protocol. The reselection mechanism provides the Type-B and C protocols extra
diversities in each subsequent ARQ. On the contrary, when the performance is
mainly limited by , namely when is large enough, the relay channel
degenerates at high SNR to a SIMO channel with antenna selection. If
and , then the destination can successfully decode the
data as long as any one of the relays is able to do so. Choosing which relay
for ARQ does not matter in this case.
Summarizing the above observations, there seems to be no need to use a highly
complex protocol of the Type-C at low SNR either when relays are very close
to the source or to the destination. Other than these two extreme operating
environments, the cooperative diversities of ARQs are typically limited by the
cardinality of in the non-degenerative case of . Only
the Type-C protocol can resolve this relay shortage problem by allowing
overhearing on relays. The diversities of the three types of ARQ protocols are
summarized in Table I different link ratios parameterized by and .
VI. Delay and Outage Limited Throughput
The results in Fig. 8 and Table I show that in where
and are neither too large nor too small, ODSTC2 is good enough for the
Type-A protocol and seems to be the best choice for the Type-B for the entire
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 27 頁
right before the successful delivery. As all three types of protocols do relay
selection when first turns nonempty, so are exactly the same and
equal to (76). Other than these two cases, are different for the
three types of ARQ protocols and are discussed below separately.
 Type-A: Recall from Fig. 5 that for , is the probability
of times of the outage event 's followed by another outage event
and then by times of the outage event 's before the successful
delivery, . Since the active relays are fixed after the first relay
forwarding, the probability of is given by . Therefore,
is expressed in the form of (77).
 Type-B: The only difference between and is that
is the probability of times 's followed by times
's before the successful delivery, , owing to the reselection mechanism
in each ARQ. As a result, is expressed in the form of (78) when
.
 Type-C: The difference between the Type-C and the Type-B protocols lies in
the fact that the decoding set in the Type-C will continue to grow due to
the overhearing capability once . Making use of the tree diagram of Fig.
6 to account for the increment of in each ARQ then can be
readily obtained by replacing the ending state of the corresponding
branch in the figure with , which leads to (79).
▓
Based on the results of (74) (79), we are able to study the maximum
delay-limited throughput for the three types of ARQ protocols subject to ( )
a constraint, , on the outage probability. Given the average S-D and R-D link
qualities, and , the transmission rates for the source and the relays are
defined as and , respectively. Thus, the
throughput maximization problem is formulated as
(80)
This maximization problem can be solved with the typical steepest descent
algorithm. We next study the optimal throughput, , for the three types
of ARQ protocols in practical ranges of received SNRs. According to the
diversity analysis presented in Section V-D, the relay channel degenerates to
a MISO one when , or to a SIMO channel with antenna selection when
. Other than these two degenerative cases, in the
non-degenerative cases of , the cooperative diversities
of ARQs are typically limited by the cardinality of , which is in turn closely
related to value of . Therefore, we study in particular the effects of on
the optimal throughput in the non-degenerative relay channels. The system
parameters for simulations are set to be , , , and
if not specified particularly. Besides, counting the data transmission time
only, we have and in (74).
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 29 頁
Fig. 13. The ARQ efficiency of the proposed protocols. Subplot (a) compares the obtained according
to (74) with the ones obtained by (81). Subplot (b) shows the convergence of .
approximation of the Type-C protocol is almost the same to the one using three
terms with in (81). This explains what are observed in Fig. 12 (b)
and Fig. 13 (b) that the asymptotic throughput of the ARQ protocols with ODSTCi
can be attained with two or three times of retransmissions.
B: Protocol Efficiency with ODSTCi
In addition to the ARQ efficiency with ODSTCi, the protocols' efficiencies
in regards of overhearing, relay reselection and ODSTCi are demonstrated in
Fig. 14. Subplot (a) presents , , for and 2 when
and , and compares them with the optimal throughput corresponding to
randomly choosing at most relays out of for ARQ with DSTC. The throughput
of this type is denoted by with . The results show
that and . The
overhearing and reselection function of the Type-C protocol can provide
roughly a 0.4b/s/cu gain over . While, the relay reselection
function alone does not offer a meaningful gain over or of
the Type-A protocol when . The small advantage in makes the Type-B
with ODSTC1 an attractive ARQ scheme for as there is no synchronization
and coordination required among the participant relays to perform DSTC.
On the other hand, when increases from 2 to 8 as shown in subplot (b),
both and get improved, with gaining some extra but small
advantages from the relay reselection at ARQ2. On the contrary, only gets
some minor improvement from the functions of overhearing and relay reselection.
The Type-A protocol with ODSTC2 turns out to be an effective yet efficient scheme
as relay selection takes place only once when turns non-empty. This result
together with those for in subplot (b) are reminiscences of the results
in Fig. 8 for outage probabilities, which also show that ODSTC2 is necessary
for the Type-A protocol, while ODSTC1 works well with the Type-B protocol at
high SNR.
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 31 頁
Fig. 15. The comparison of the delay and outage limited throughput between the optimal approach and a
suboptimal one with and when and for ARQ2.
The left plot compares the results for the Type-C protocol with ODSTC2, while the right plot for ODSTCM.
, for transmissions, it will cause the highest outage probability as well
for all subject to the same outage constraint. Though not optimal, this
approximated analysis is mathematically tractable and provides valuable
insight into the interplay between and . Besides, simulation results
in Fig. 15 also show that the resultant throughput with is very close
to the optimal one in the practical operating range of SNR even if may
lead to a lower throughput at high SNR due to its higher chances of
retransmissions.
Given and , we have and ,
respectively. The outage probabilities from (6) to (9) become invariant to the
SNR under this setting as and . More specifically, ,
and become functions of s only, and
(82)
whose value depends on the ratio of . Here we use to stand for the
different values of for the different protocols to achieve with ODSTCi
relaying. Following this rule for notationing, the probability, , in
(37) for the Type-C protocol becomes
(83)
Denote the probabilities, , , , and ,
under this setting by , , , and ,
respectively. Substituting them back into (32), (34) and (39), the outage
probabilities, , become solely determined by , given the values of
the link ratios, , and . In particular, and are functions
of and only. As a result, given a predetermined constraint, , on
, one can obtain the corresponding for each and
. With and, hence, , the throughput, ,
can be determined accordingly. More specifically, for the of each type,
the associated in (75) to (79) are evaluated by setting in ,
, , or .
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 33 頁
Fig. 16. The throughput versus of ODSTC2 when at ARQ2. The results of are
evaluated at dB when . For comparison, and are also shown in the figure.
determined by and , for , which are constant given a fixed
, thus increase approximately linearly . As a result,
we may define an alternative SNR loss, , in dB as the additional
SNR required for ODSTCi to achieve the same throughput, , achieved with
ODSTCM at ARQn. Different from the SNR loss defined in (28) from the perspective
of outage probability, the SNR loss, , vary slightly with SNR as shown
in Fig. 14 (a). Nevertheless, it still effectively characterizes the relay
efficiency in terms of for ODSTCi.
The values of , , at for different and
are drawn in Fig. 17 when and at ARQ2. As shown
in the figure that the SNR losses diminish rapidly when increase. This
characterizes what are observed in Fig. 14 (a) that the efficiency of using
a large for ODSTCi decreases rapidly. This is particularly true for a small
value of . Compared with the Type-A protocol, the reselection function of the
Type-B makes it more efficient in using the relays when becomes larger.
Having only incurs about a 0.4 dB loss in for the Type-B protocol
even if .
On the other hand, the results in subplot (b) present the effects of the
R-R to S-D link ratio, , on . The SNR losses, , increase with
in particular when is small. This is because the cardinality of can
be effectively increased in this case through the overhearing function of the
Type-C protocol. Even though the advantage of a larger increases slightly
when gets larger, we still have dB even if . This once
again makes the ODSTC2 an appealing choice for ARQ with ODSTCi.
Based on the results presented in Fig. 12, 14, 16 and 17 for the analysis
of efficiencies in regards of the number of ARQs, the functions of the protocols
and the number of relays for ODSTCi, we may reach a rule of thumb for choosing
and setting a cooperative ARQ protocol that is based on ODSTCi. In general,
and accompanied by two times of ARQs turns out to be a good tradeoff
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 35 頁
shortage problem and achieve the full diversity by enabling overhearing on
relays .
On the other hand, based on the efficiency analysis for the throughput in
, the S-R to S-D link ratio, , can be roughly partitioned
into three operating regimes as well. When is large enough such that
, the Type-B protocol with ODSTC2 provides a near optimal throughput.
However, when is small such that ODSTCi suffers from severe relay shortages
as becomes dominant, then the Type-C protocol can serve as the rescuer
with its function of overhearing, and offer a significant throughput
enhancement even with ODSTC2 in two times of ARQs, making use of its repetitive
process of overhearing and relay reselection. Other than these two extreme
channel conditions, either the Type-A protocol with ODSTC2 or the Type-B
protocol with ODSTC1 provide satisfactory throughput.
Overall, from the practice point of view, this research study shows that
a significant throughput enhancement can be obtained by using an appropriate
ARQ protocol for two times of retransmissions that employ at most two active
relays out of a total of relays for ODSTC. This advantage of ODSTC may
have a more profound effect on the overall system throughput from a cross-layer
point of view. Consider the sum of the queue lengths of all relays as a system
resource. An ARQ with DSTC will duplicate the packets to be retransmitted on
all relays in , while for the Type-A protocol with ODSTC2, each of the packets
will be duplicated on two available relays in at most. In addition, the total
duration for packets to reside in relays' queues will become shorter in average
due to the higher efficiency in retransmissions with ODSTC. These features will
make the queues of relays less likely to overflow with retransmission packets,
and hence, more capable to sustain a higher system throughput due to a lower
probability in dropping packets. A more thorough study on this is worth pursuing,
while is beyond the scope of this paper.
APPENDICES
A. Proof of Proposition 1
To find the closed form expression of
(85)
we would need the asymptotic result of a CDF given below.
Assume . Let stand for the summation of the largest
out of exponential RVs, Exp( ), with .
For the CDF of , we have
(86)
where the joint PDF of the ordered RVs is given by [25]
(87)
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 37 頁
As a result, it can be easily shown that
(100)
This multiple integrals can be solved with Lemma 1 provided in AppendixA-B which
results in
(101)
Substituting this expression back into (95), we obtain
(102)
Now, applying this formula to (85) gives
(103)
In cases where , then all the relays in will be used to forward the
signal. The corresponding expression of (85) is equal to setting in (103).
Thus, define , we conclude that
(104)
B. Proof of Lemma 1
Lemma 1:
(105)
Proof:
1. Let , we have
(106)
From the table of integrals [28], it follows
(107)
Therefore, (106) is equal to
(108)
2. For , the general form of the formula becomes
(109)
Set , we have
Substituting this result back into (109), we obtain
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 39 頁
(117)
˙ If as well, then . As a result, we have . Besides,
(118)
decreases when increases under this channel condition. Therefore, of
(116) is dominated at high SNR by the lowest order of , which gives
(119)
since . Substituting the result back into (115), we further have
(120)
˙ If , then at high SNR we still have
(121)
Consequently, (116) can be approximated at high SNR as
(122)
— If (b) (c) such that
(123)
where , then it follows that
(124)
which is valid only if
(125)
Let . Then, if , we have
(126)
(127)
(128)
— If instead, such that (b) (c), then we will have
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 41 頁
which results in
(140)
When the diversity is , otherwise it is
.
C.3 When :
It has been known from (114) and (120) that when , we have
(141)
If we further have , then the
first term on the RHS of (141) will become dominant. Therefore, if
(142)
then, the outage probability can be approximated at high SNR as
(143)
Otherwise, we have
(144)
We note that it is impractical to have and
(145)
since this would lead to
(146)
due to the fact that, in general,
(147)
C.4 For ARQs with ODSTC1 ( ):
We note that the above derivations are conducted under the assumption that
. For , we always have
(148)
(149)
As a result, the outage probability can be approximated at high SNR as (143)
only if
(150)
where . Therefore, define
(151)
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 43 頁
(161)
On the other hand, when , which also means ,
the can be approximated as
(162)
If we further have , where
, then the first term on the RHS will become dominant.
The outage probability can thus be approximated at high SNR as
(163)
The threshold SNR, , is thus given by
(164)
We note that it is unlikely to see at high SNR that
(165)
Since, in this case, we would have when requiring
at least for (158) to be valid. Summarizing the above results, we have
(166)
This completes the proof.
E. Proof of Proposition 5
Since , with the equality holding either when
or . Given and , for , by inspection,
we have:
1. Define .
2. ARQ2:
To satisfy :
˙ For ( and ), then , we have
˙For . Since , we have
˙Thus, satisfies .
3. ARQ3:
˙ For ( ), then . Since , ,
is satisfied when
˙ For , to also satisfy . Thus,
˙ satisfies .
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 45 頁
[10]A. Bletssa, H. Shin, and M. Win, “Cooperative communicaions with
outage-optimal opportunistic relaying,”IEEE Trans. on Wireless
Communications, vol. 6, no. 9, pp. 3450–3460, 2007.
[11]D. Chen, K. Azarian, and J. N. Laneman, “A case for amplify-and-forward
relaying in the block-fading multi-access channel,”IEEE Trans. on
Information Theory, vol. 54, no. 8, pp. 3728–3733, 2008.
[12]R. Mudumbai, D. R. Brown III, U. Madhow, and H. V. Poor, “Distributed
transmit beamforming: Challenges and recent progress,”IEEE
Communications Magazine, vol. 47, no. 2, pp. 102–110, Feb. 2009.
[13]IEEE standard for local and metropolitan area networks part 16: Air
interface for ﬁxed and mobile broadband wireless access systems:
Multihop relay speciﬁcation, P802.16j/D9, May 2009, available at
http://www.ieee802.org/16.
[14]IEEE standard for local and metropolitan area networks part 16: Task Group
m (TGm), Apr. 2009, available at http://www.ieee802.org/16/tgm.
[15]Third-Generation partnership project’s (3GPP) long term evolution (LTE):
Release 10 & beyond (LTE-Advanced), May 2009, available at
http://www.3gpp.org/LTE-Advanced.
[16]Y. Zhao, R. Adve, and T. J. Lim, “Improving amplify-and-forward relay
networks: optimal power allocation versus selection,”IEEE Trans. on
Wireless Communications, vol. 6, no. 8, pp. 3114–3123, 2007.
[17]P. Zhang, F. Wang, Z. Xu, S. Diouba, and L. Tu,“Opportunistic distributed
space-time coding with semi-distributed relay selection method,”
Research Journal of Information Technology, vol. I, pp. 41–50, 2009.
[18]I. Stano jev, O. Simeone, and Y. Bar-Ness, “Performance of multi-relay
collaborative hybrid-ARQ protocols over fading channels,”IEEE
Communications Letters, vol. 10, no. 7, pp. 522–524, 2006.
[19]T. Tabet, S. Dusad, and R. Knopp, “Diversity-Multiplexing-Delay tradeoﬀ
in half-duplex ARQ relay channels,”IEEE Trans. on Information Theory,
vol. 53, no. 10, pp. 3797–3805, Oct. 2007.
[20]R. Narasimhan, “Throughput-Delay performance of half-duplex Hybrid-ARQ
relay channels,”in Proc. IEEE ICC. Beijing, China, May 2008.
[21]C.-K. Tseng and S.-H. Wu, “Simple cooperative ARQ protocols with
selective amplify-and-forward relaying,”in Proc. IEEE PIMRC. Tokyo,
Japan, Sep. 2009.
[22]I. Cerutti, A. Fumagalli, and P. Gupta, “Delay models of single-source
single-relay cooperative ARQ protocols in slotted radio networks with
Poisson frame arrivals,”IEEE/ACM Trans. on Networking, vol. 16, no. 2,
pp. 371–382, 2008.
[23]J. Cai, A. S. Alfa, P. Ren, X. (Sherman) Shen, and J. W. Mark, “Packet
level performance analysis in wireless user-relaying networks,”IEEE
Trans. on Wireless Communications, vol. 7, no. 12, pp. 5336–5345, 2008.
[24]E. Telatar, “Capacity of multi-antenna gaussian channels,”European
Trans. on Telecommunications, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 585–595, 1999.
[25]H. A. David and H. N. Nagarja, Order Statistics, Wiley, 3rd edition, 2003.
[26]L. Zhang and D. N.C. Tse, “Diversity and multiplexing: A fundamental
tradeoﬀin multiple-antenna channels,”IEEE Trans. on Information Theory,
vol. 49, no. 5, pp. 1073–1069, May 2003.
表 C011 共 48 頁 第 47 頁
表 Y04
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
99 年 6 月 24 日
報告人姓名
伍紹勳
服務機構
及職稱 交通大學電信工程所
時間
會議
地點
16-22 April 2010
Sydney, Australia
本會核定
補助文號
會議
名稱
(中文)
(英文) IEEE WCNC 2010
發表
論文
題目
(中文)
(英文) Time Synchronization Protocol for Small Scale Wireless Sensor Networks
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
