 2
transfer.  It is noted that the oxidized fin is 
inexpensive in produce and has the same 
dimensions as an ordinary fin.  Through 
this study, it is expected the heat transfer 
rate of a fin and burnout as well as the 
film-collapse temperature may also be 
increased through this design in boiling heat 
transfer. 
Keywords: Boiling heat transfer, Fins, 
Oxidation, Burnout, Film collapse. 
II. Introduction 
Considerable attention has been given to the 
study of boiling heat transfer in recent years. 
Because of its characteristics of removing 
tremendous quantities of heat from small 
spaces, it is believed to be the most effective 
mechanism in heat transfer applications. In 
addition, the heat rejected by a fin in a 
boiling liquid may be orders of magnitude 
greater than those without fins. Up to date, a 
lot of investigators have still been engrossed 
in boiling heat transfer from extended 
surfaces which are of practical significance 
in the cooling of nuclear reactors. 
The boiling heat transfer from a pin fin 
is much more complicated than the 
traditional convective one. Haley and 
Westwater (1966) performed a boiling 
experiment using a horizontal cylindrical 
copper fin in saturated isopropyl alcohol. 
From their visualization, different types of 
heat transfer such as film boiling, transition 
boiling, nucleate boiling, and free 
convection were observed to coexist on the 
fin at a base temperature slightly above the 
minimum temperature. Furthermore, they 
indicated that the variation of heat transfer 
coefficient along the fin varies by a factor of 
50 to 1, and the traditional constant heat 
transfer coefficient assumption is certainly 
no longer applicable. 
The theoretical approach for boiling 
from a fin was initiated by Cumo et al. 
(1965). They simulated rectangular fins w/o 
internal heat generation by a finite 
difference method. Both modes of forced 
convection and nucleate boiling were 
analyzed separately assuming the heat flux 
to be proportional to the third power of the 
wall to liquid temperature difference. The 
thermal performance of the extended surface 
was found to be very complicated and was 
influenced by many variables and their 
interactions. Recently, Sen and trinh (1986) 
made use of Chang et al.’s model (1982) and 
obtained the temperature distribution in a 
rectangular fin by an analytic method. The 
heat transfer coefficient on the fin surface 
was assumed to follow a power-law-type 
temperature dependence from 0 to 3. The 
results were expressed in dimensionless 
forms based on homogeneous boundary 
condition at the end of fin and the 
hypothesis of temperature variation in axial 
direction only. Subsequent work has led to 
some modifications (Unal, 1985, 1986, and 
1987), however, these models were merely 
applicable for a short fin to sustain a single 
heat transfer mode. 
To obtain a higher heat transfer rate, the 
heat exchanger equipments are usually 
operated in nucleate boiling regime. In this 
situation, the increase in operating 
temperature can promote the heat transfer 
rate effectively. However, such a change in 
the whole system may cause a local high 
temperature region, and suffer a sudden 
jump to film boiling regime with a poor heat 
transfer rate, known as burnout phenomenon. 
Thus, the understanding of this problem is 
quite important and it leads to the 
consideration of multiple modes of boiling 
coexisting on a fin. 
The coexistence of differing types of 
boiling is widely seen in a quenching or 
tempering process during the heat treatment 
of materials. The true functionality when 
more than two types of boiling are present is 
far more complex. Lai and Hsu (1967) 
proposed a one-dimensional model for a fin 
partly cooled by nucleate boiling and partly 
by convection. For a given fin base 
the fin. The temperature profile in the fin is 
then governed by a heat conduction equation. 
It is noted that ∆T(= T-Ts) represents the 
temperature difference between fin surface 
and saturated liquid and Ts is the saturated 
temperature of the ambient liquid. The 
temperature dependent thermal conductivity, 
k(T) , can be obtained from Lienhard (1987). 
Moreover, regardless of the size of the 
generating vapor, the temperature dependent 
heat transfer coefficient is assumed to be the 
same as the value of a boiling curve of 
isopropyl alcohol which was quoted from 
the data produced by Haley and Westwater 
(1966) and were also used by Unal (1987). It 
can be written as h(∆T) = a∆Tm-1. The 
superheat at the incipience of nucleate 
boiling, ∆Ti, is equal to 4 K, and the 
maximum and minimum wall superheats on 
the boiling curve, ∆Tmax and ∆Tmin are at 
22.7 K and 81 K, respectively. A set of 
approximate power-law functions of surface 
heat flux is herein listed in Table 1. Proper 
values of a and m are selected and used 
during the calculation depending on the ∆T 
of the finned surface. 
Though the boiling curve is influenced 
by many factors, such as geometry, surface 
wettability, liquid properties, etc, the 
determination of a boiling curve is beyond 
the scope of the present study. However, 
once the boiling curve is attainable, the 
temperature distribution in the fin can be 
readily calculated. The solution is obtained 
by finite differencing with successive 
over-relaxation. To accelerate the 
convergence rate, a solution of 
one-dimensional equation in axial direction 
is used as an initial guess to the two 
dimensional code. The heat transfer 
coefficient is varied with the temperature at 
the wall superheat following a modified 
empirical boiling curve. The temperature of 
the fin is iterated until it converges at an 
absolute iteration error less than 10-4. 
IV. Experiment 
The apparatus used in this study was 
designed to permit measurements of heat 
duty and simultaneous observations of a fin 
in pool boiling conditions. The equipment 
consisted of the system with a cooling water 
loop, assembly of test piece and accessories 
for operating this equipment. Experiments 
were conducted to study the steady-state 
heat transfer characteristics of cylindrical 
fins subject to boiling isopropyl alcohol at 
atmospheric pressure. 
The schematic diagram of the 
experimental apparatus is shown in Figure1, 
which includes the test chamber, cooling 
water loop, the assembly of test piece, the 
preheater and gaseous nitrogen supply line. 
The frame of the test chamber was 
manufactured by welding stainless of 5 mm 
in thickness. The inside space of the test 
chamber is 15 cm long, 15 cm wide, and 25 
cm high. The openings at four sides are 11 
cm by 21 cm. Three of them were installed 
with 5 mm thick pyrex glasses (12 cm × 22 
cm). Some rubber stripes were placed 
between the pyrex and the stainless frame to 
prevent the leakage of working liquid. All 
the layers are compressed to fasten tightly 
by stainless steel bolts. Through the pyrex 
glasses, the boiling phenomena was 
observed. The remaining side is fitted with 
the assembly of test piece. 
Controlled by a variac, an immersion 
heater (250 W/110 V) located at the bottom 
of the test chamber is used to maintain the 
working liquid at saturation temperature. 
The temperature of the liquid pool is 
measured by a set of thermocouples, one 
thermocouple is located in the chamber 
about 5 cm above the middle of the test 
piece and another movable thermocouple at 
random locations. The top of the test 
chamber was linked with a 25 cm high 
rectangular stainless chimney. A copper-coil 
condenser was equipped in the chimney and 
cold water was allowed to pass through the 
cooling coil. It condenses the saturated 
 4
Figure 3 shows the calculated base heat flux 
of fins with lengths of 40 mm, 55 mm, 70 
mm, and 85 mm on various ∆Tb. Initially, a 
heating case is investigated. If the base 
temperature is below ∆Ti, the fin transfer 
heat solely by convection, the heat flux thus 
is very small. When ∆Tb is greater than ∆Ti, 
the convection region on the finned surface 
shrinks dramatically whereas nucleate 
boiling stretches out quickly at an increase 
in ∆Tb. An apparent increase of base heat 
flux is observed. Transition boiling shows 
up at fin base when ∆Tb is slightly above 
∆Tmax. Four heat transfer modes are found to 
coexist on a fin if ∆Tb is higher than ∆Tmin. 
A further increase in ∆Tb, nucleate boiling is 
about to be pushed off as soon as convection 
disappears from the fin tip. Once the 
nucleate boiling is pushed out of the fin tip, 
transition boiling vanishes instantaneously. 
The whole fin is then in film boiling. This 
results in an abrupt decrease in the heat 
dissipation of a fin. The base temperature 
which will cause a system to suffer a sudden 
and damaging increase of temperature is 
referred to as burnout temperature. While 
cooling, film boiling covers the entire 
surface of a fin at ∆Tb = 400 K. The vapor 
film exists between the copper fin and 
saturated liquid, thus the liquid is unable to 
contact with the finned surface. Vapor owns 
lower thermal conductivity than liquid, 
therefore the base heat flux of a fin is low. 
As the base temperature of the fin is 
decreased, qb becomes smaller as shown in 
dashed lines in Figure 2. This is because the 
whole fin is still vapor dominant and the 
temperature of vapor is lowered. A 
continuous decrease in ∆Tb, the working 
liquid will break the vapor film at the tip of 
the fin and pass through the thin film to hit 
the finned surface eventually. The pin fin is 
then film collapsed. The maximum heat flux, 
qmax, appears at the tip surface where the 
boiling is vigorous. Instantaneously, 
convection, nucleate boiling, and transition 
boiling move in the fin, an abrupt increase in 
qb is observed. 
Figure 4 shows the base heat fluxes for 
various fins at different wall superheats. 
Generally, the base heat flux of a fin is 
larger for a longer fin at D = 25 mm. As 
burnout is about to occur, the tip 
temperature will fall around maximum 
superheat during heating. As soon as the 
highly efficient transition and nucleate 
boiling are pushed off the fin, the heat 
dissipation of the heat exchanger will greatly 
reduce. The experiment stops when burnout 
takes place due to same base heat flux as 
obtained in a cooling run for further increase 
of ∆Tb. In a cooling case, the tip temperature 
of a fin drops to minimum superheat when 
the vapor film at the free end portion is 
about to collapse. Identically, the cooling 
experiment continues until the 
base-heat-flux jump occurs and four 
different heat transfer modes show up on the 
fin. For a given ∆Tb, the heat duties for 
heating runs are mostly higher than those of 
cooling runs. Both the burnout and 
film-collapse temperatures increase with fin 
length. Note the deviations in the jumps of 
base heat fluxes are insignificant while 
cooling. It is worthwhile to mention that the 
burnout superheat for L = 85 mm is not 
obtained due to fairly large power 
consumption. 
Figure 5 presents the comparison of 
predicted and measured temperatures 
profiles for a fin with or without insulated 
tip. The experimental data, which are taken 
from the thermocouple measurements on the 
center of the fin, are obtained during heating 
runs. On the same ∆Tb (= 226 K), both the 
measured and calculated temperatures are 
higher for the fin with insulated tip due to 
less heat loss from the surface of free end. 
Also, note that a slight increase in ∆Tb (= 
230 K) results in a larger raise of tip 
temperature of a fin. This is because the 
finned surface fails to stably exist in 
 6
Heat Mass Transfer 37 (1994b) 
1517-1524. 
Liaw, S.P., Yeh, R.H., and Yeh, W.T., A 
simple design of fin for boiling heat 
transfer, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer 
(2005), in press. 
Lienhard, J.H., A heat transfer textbook, 2nd 
edition, Prentice Hall, Inc., New Jersey, 
1987. 
Lin, W.W., Yang, J.C., and Lee, D.J., 
Metastable pin fin boiling, Int. J. Heat 
Mass Transfer 43 (2000) 1629-1635. 
Liu, Z.W., Lin, W.W., and Lee D.J., Boiling 
of FC-72 on straight pin fin, Int. comm. 
Heat Mass Transfer 26 (1999) 311-318. 
Sen, A.K. and Trinh, S., An exact solution 
for the rate of heat transfer from a 
rectangular fin governed by a power 
law-type temperature dependence, J. 
Heat Transfer 108 (1986) 457-459. 
Unal, H.C., Determination of the 
temperature distribution in an extended 
surface with a non-uniform heat transfer 
coefficient, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer 28 
(1985) 2279-2284. 
Unal, H.C., A simple method of 
dimensioning straight fins for nucleate 
pool boiling, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer 
29 (1986) 640-644. 
Unal, H.C., Temperature distributions in fins 
with uniform and non-uniform heat 
generation and non-uniform heat transfer 
coefficient, Int. J. Heat Mass Transfer 30 
(1987) 1465-1477. 
 
Table 1. Correlations of the temperature 
dependent heat transfer coefficient 
heat transfer 
modes 
a m ∆T 
convection 338 0.33 0≦
∆T<4K 
nucleate 
boiling 
28 2 4≦∆T<22.7K 
transition 
boiling 
4.7×107 -2.5 22.7≦∆T<81K
film boiling 254 0 81≦∆T 
 
Heater
Preheating
reservoir
Working liquid
Viewing chamber
Thermocouple
Condenser
Gaseous
nitrogen
supply
Insulation
Cartridge
heater
Variable
power
supply
Pin fin
Heater
Drain
(pyrex glass)
 
Fig. 1Schematic diagram of the experimental apparatus. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 2 Water and Isopropyl alcohol on the (a)mirror 
clean surface and (b)oxidized surface. 
 
 
 
 8
