 2
 
一、摘要 
    Previous studies found that the average score 
of subjects’ ratings for a specific system interface to 
generalize subjects' aesthetic preference for the 
interface system might be not appropriate.  It 
might be that prototypical exemplars, i.e., somatic 
markers, play an important role that determines the 
subjects' intentions of judging beauty.  When the 
affective meanings of objects are closer to the 
prototypical exemplars, the objects are judged 
beauty higher.  Therefore, the purpose of this 
study is to explore the somatic markers and its 
properties.  The Regression and Factor Analysis 
are used in the experiment.  The result shows that 
there are two kinds of somatic markers.  First, 
Value Affective Meanings (VAM) refers to those 
affective meanings related to subjective values on 
judgment of beauty.  Second, Disinterestedness 
Affective Meanings (DAM) refers to the affective 
meanings related to design principles determining 
their judgment of beauty without any interest.  
Besides, 20 adjective pairs are not somatic markers 
and categorized as Subject-dependent Affective 
Meanings (SAM) because the degree of swaying 
the judgment of beauty are various for these 
adjective pairs for different subjects.  SAM can be 
distinguished into three types of adjective pairs: 
Action affective meanings (AAM), Clarity affective 
meanings (CAM) and Temperament affective 
meanings (TAM). 
 
關鍵詞：aesthetics, color combination, icon 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
Besides recognized and remembered easily, icons 
can save more screen space than words.  Therefore, 
icons are used extensively in graphical user 
interfaces of hand-held electronic products, such as 
mobile phones and PDA.  In addition, colors also 
have been applied to display interfaces extensively 
because today’s display technologies have the 
abilities to display numerous colors. Therefore, the 
effectiveness of icon-background color 
combinations in displays has to be concerned.  
Most researches of icon-background color 
combinations focus on the usability of screen 
interface design. That is, the color combinations in 
the interactive interfaces were evaluated with 
learnability, efficiency, memorability, errors or 
satisfaction. 
 
Recently, besides usability, aesthetic preferences 
are also discussed for improvement of interface 
design.  Aesthetics, which refers to as “beauty” in 
this study, is pertaining to a sense of what is 
beautiful and visually pleasing and a strong 
determinant of the pleasure the user experiences as 
he perceives system interfaces (Gatto, 1987).  
Some researcher believed that user aesthetic 
preferences for the proposed system interface 
designs become important because the aesthetic 
quality of a product might influences consumers’ 
attitudes and is a critical determinant of its 
marketplace success beside product usability 
(Bloch 1995).  Norman (2004) also claims that 
aesthetic design can be even more influential in 
affecting user preferences than traditional 
operational usability in interactive system. Several 
researchers were also devoted to their studies to 
discover which color combinations were beautiful 
for users on screen design.  For example, Shieh 
and Ko (2005) used preference rating to explore the 
effects of target/background color combinations on 
the judgment of beauty of icon design. Their results 
indicated black targets (black-on-white, 
black-on-yellow) and black backgrounds 
(red-on-black, yellow-on-black) were the most 
popular.  As for the chromatic color combinations, 
yellow-on-blue was the most favored.  Besides, 
Camgoz, Yener & Guvenc (2002), who explored 
the preference responses for figure/ground color 
combinations, and found that colors with maximum 
saturation and brightness were most preferred, and 
that blue was the most preferred hue. 
 
Obviously, their results were not consistent with 
Shieh and Ko (2005).  The reason might be that 
aesthetic preferences were highly personal factors, 
with a large variation between users. Previous 
studies used the average score of subjects’ ratings 
for a specific system interface to judge subjects’ 
aesthetic preference for the interface system might 
be not appropriate. Consequently, it was found that 
the authors’ recommendations about subjects’ 
aesthetic ratings for color combinations are not 
always consistent with each other.  Huang (2007) 
performed several experiments to justify this idea.  
He confirmed that the aesthetic preference is 
diverse for different individuals when they rated the 
icon-background color combinations.  That is, for 
a specific color combination, one may believes it is 
 4
matter of rules and proofs.  For example, Kant’s 
judgment of beauty is that of “disinterestedness”: 
an object is beautiful if the individuals like it 
without any interest.  One should be free from any 
kind of desire, aim, or purpose, or any social, moral, 
or intellectual considerations.  The description 
above is close to objective views.  In addition, 
“judgments about what is beautiful are subjective in 
the sense that they say something about the subject 
judging (i.e., me when I say, “the rose is beautiful”) 
and not something about the object (i.e., that rose), 
for we feel that the property beauty is in my 
experience, not in the object per se” (Eaton, 2006, p. 
41). In this way, the two extremes are avoided. 
 
Furthermore, Kant distinguishes between three 
kinds of satisfaction, or pleasure: the satisfaction in 
the agreeable, the beautiful, and the good. The first 
is a merely subjectively feeling, and the third has an 
objective ground (it is based on concepts and rules).  
The second is subjective but nevertheless making 
such a claim demands universally agree.  Only the 
satisfaction in the beautiful is free and disinterested 
(Wenzel, 2005).  If we draw a coordinate line, the 
both extremes are the “agree (objective judgment)”, 
and the “good (subjective judgment)”; the 
“beautiful” located between them.  That is, the 
judgment of beauty is determined by both objective 
(i.e., “good”) and subjective (i.e., “agree”) 
judgments with various weights, but not either one.  
That is, when one says, “the color combination is 
beautiful”, he expects that others will also take 
pleasure in the combination.  When one says 
something is beautiful, he expects universal agree 
(“logically”). At this point, judgments about what is 
beautiful are not only subjective, but mixed with 
objective notions. 
 
Kant joins subjective judgment (i.e. feelings) and 
objective judgment (i.e. object properties and 
usability) together on beauty judgment.  Huang’s 
findings (2007) agree with his view.  In Huang’s 
study, both legibility and comfort are performance 
measures belong to “good” as Kant’s descriptions 
above.  Huang finds that bad quality in both 
legibility and comfort degraded subjects’ aesthetic 
preference; however, color combinations with 
better quality in both legibility and comfort an 
object has did not guarantee to its beauty because of 
the lacking the subjective judgment (i.e., 
“agreeable”)in the experiment. 
 
However, Kant’s view does not tell us what their 
feelings will be when individuals see an object.  
When individual see the color combinations, the 
feelings for them might be highly personal factors, 
with a large variation between users. Therefore, 
subjects’ ratings for a color combination on 
aesthetic preference might be still diverse.  
However, his views propose a concept that the 
affective meanings of the color combinations might 
influence subjects’ feelings which decide their 
judgment on beauty, not only the objects' properties 
themselves. 
 
Psychology and Aesthetics 
 
Researchers also try to explain "what is beautiful" 
in the psychological domain.  Winston and 
Cupchik (1992) propose that the function of 
aesthetics includes both the Reaction processing 
and the Reflective processing, which covering both 
psychodynamic and cognitive aspects.  
 
Reaction processing.  In Reaction processing, the 
judgment of aesthetic preference is decided by 
object configurations that evoke pleasure or arousal 
(Cupchik, 1994).  The degree of evoking arousal 
depends on that humans associate the object 
configurations with pleasure and excitement based 
on past experiences or learning process.  
According to the principle of the aesthetic middle, 
people tolerate most often and for the longest time a 
certain medium degree of arousal, which makes 
them feel neither over-stimulated nor dissatisfied by 
a lack of sufficient occupation (Cupchik, 1994).  
Winston and Cupchik (1992) believes that 
sentimental art producing “idealized thoughts about 
the goodness and purity of the subject matter” is 
arousal-moderating and evokes responses of 
warmth in unsophisticated audiences.  They find 
that naïve viewers (without art courses) have been 
shown to prefer Popular Art (i.e., sentimental art) 
over High Art (i.e., museum) paintings, rating the 
former as much warmer and more pleasant than 
High Art.  They also believe that art should 
provide warm feelings to a broad audience.  In the 
other side, learning mechanisms would also reduce 
arousals, such as, conditioning, habituation, and 
stimulus generalization.  Thus, if conditioning 
serves to make a particular stimulus feature familiar 
and pleasurable, then repeated exposure to the 
stimulus should reduce its reward value through 
habituation.  
 6
Due to the process of judging beauty is affected by 
the individual experienced knowledge or 
conditioning, the judgment of beauty varies for 
different individuals.  Besides, in the model, the 
object properties would present affective meanings 
which would be used to match with somatic 
markers.  α refers to the intensity of relation 
between affecting meanings and somatic markers.  
If the intensity of the relation to between affecting 
meanings and pleasurable somatic markers is high, 
the beauty rating would be high, vice versa. 
 
Purpose 
 
The theoretical model of processing of judging 
aesthetics for individuals can explain why the 
aesthetic preference is not rated consistently for 
most of color combinations between subjects.  
However, it still entails being verified by more 
scientific evidences.  The main centerpiece of the 
Model is that individual somatic markers determine 
individuals' judgment on beauty.  One perceives 
not only the feature qualities of the color 
combination, but also the affective semantic 
meanings of the color combinations.  The affective 
semantic meanings of the color combinations will 
be compared with the somatic markers, prototypical 
exemplars, which viewers have in their own mind.  
The level of matching determines individuals' 
judgment on beauty.  Hence, what are the somatic 
markers is an important question in order to 
validate the Model. 
 
Therefore, the purpose of the study tries to explore 
the prototypical exemplars, somatic markers, which 
influence the judgment of aesthetic preference for 
the icon-background color combinations. The other 
parts of the Model are not the scope of this study.  
The questions will be discussed below. The results 
of the experiment will be feedback to modify the 
model. 
 
[1]  What are the somatic markers? 
[2]  Do all human have the same somatic 
markers? 
[3]  How many types the somatic markers can 
be classified? And what are they? 
 
 
三、方法 
The Semantic Differential approach is used to ask 
subjects to rate color combinations with the pairs of 
affective adjectives including the "beautiful-ugly".  
These affective adjectives are as somatic markers, 
prototypical exemplars.  Both approaches of 
Stepwise Regressive analysis and factor analysis 
are used in the experiment.  Stepwise Regressive 
analysis was used to explore the relations between 
affective meanings and aesthetic preferences.  The 
"beautiful-ugly" pair is assigned as dependent 
variable; other adjective pairs as independent 
variables.  By Stepwise Regressive analysis, the 
independent variables can be divided into two 
groups: significant and non-significant correlation 
groups.  The independent variables on significant 
correlation groups can significantly predict the 
dependent variable, i.e., the "beautiful-ugly" pair; 
however, those on the other groups can not.  
Factor analysis was used to reduce the number of 
both affective adjectives when both groups contain 
numerous affective adjectives.  Finally, the 
representations of these somatic markers are 
emerged. 
 
Subjects  
 
Thirty undergraduate students including fifteen 
females and fifteen males from the Formosa 
University were recruited to participate in the 
experiment, and were each paid NT$600 for their 
participation. Their mean age was 20.7 yr. 
(SD=0.6).  All subjects reported normal ocular 
health and no clinically significant anomalies of 
accommodation.  Their color vision was tested by 
identifying numbers in the Test Table for Color 
Blindness published by Yu-Da Co. in Taiwan. Each 
subject’s visual acuity was also measured using 
VISION INSPECTOR T127 produced by the Fubio 
Medical Co.  All subjects had a visual acuity of 
0.8 or better, and normal color vision. 
 
Materials and Equipments 
 
To collect sufficient and efficacious adjectives, 
more than 100-pairs adjective words, traditional 
Chinese characters, related to affective meanings 
were collected from journals, catalogues, books and 
websites.  To reduce the amount of adjective 
words, those adjective words with some conceptual 
affinity (such as, useful, efficient) were condensed.   
Then five experts in the design field conducted a 
preliminary test to remove the less significant 
 8
are positive, others are not.  Therefore, they prefer 
objects with "Clean", "Agreeable", "Noble", 
"Sweet", "Open" and "Progressive" to those with 
"Dirty", "disagreeable", "Vile", "Bitter", "Close" 
and "Regressive", respectively.  It appears that 
these subjective values influence his judgment of 
beauty because of education, or learning. Therefore, 
these adjective pairs are categorized as Value 
Affective Meanings (VAM). This finding might 
agree with the subjective views which believe that 
judgment of beauty is based upon human past 
experiment, education and conditioning. 
 
Adjective Pairs 
Partial 
R-Square 
Model
R-Square
C(p) F Value Pr > F 
Clean-Dirty 0.0063 0.6842 161.63 23.83 <.0001 
Agreeable-Disagreeable 0.5685 0.5685 647.914 1578.34 <.0001 
Noble-Vile 0.0729 0.6414 338.498 243.24 <.0001 
Sweet-Bitter 0.026 0.6673 229.552 93.34 <.0001 
Open-Closed 0.0105 0.6779 186.568 39.05 <.0001 
Massive-Weak 0.0048 0.6955 117.215 18.94 <.0001 
Oder-Mess 0.0036 0.6991 103.905 14.18 0.0002 
Unity-Inharmonious 0.0035 0.7065 76.3029 14.23 0.0002 
Progressive-Regressive 0.0017 0.7204 30.9303 7 0.0082 
Table 2. Nine adjective pairs which significantly 
correlate to the "beautiful-ugly" pair by stepwise 
Regression analysis 
 
However, some subjects complain that the adjective 
pairs, "open-close" and "Progressive-Regressive," 
are not easy to be associated to all color 
combinations after performing the experiment.  
They tend to assign the positive adjectives to the 
pleasured color combinations when they can not 
associate the color combinations with the positive 
adjectives.  Therefore, the two adjective pairs are 
not suitable to be the somatic markers. 
 
Furthermore, three of the nine adjective pairs are 
belonged to the Design Principles which suggest 
the approaches to organizing the design elements.  
They are "Massive-Weak", "Oder-Mess", and 
"Unity-Inharmonious".  These pairs are those to 
describe the properties of the organizations of color 
combinations.  "Unity" refers to a unified feeling: 
a sense of completeness and harmony.  For a 
design work to feel complete and finished, a sense 
of unity must prevail. "Oder" refers to the 
arrangement of design elements in a design work 
follows some specific rules.  Order is an important 
approach to beauty judgment for objective views.  
However, a composition which is entirely 
organized with order, yet does not have a variation 
in the use of visual elements, will nearly always be 
boring and lack interesting.  "Massive" refers to 
being greater or stronger than usual in degree or 
power.  When one element is more massive than 
the others, the feature of emphasis, one of Design 
Principles, is produced (Gatto et al., 1987).  Gatto 
et al. (1987) believe that the emphasis is a way of 
expressing artist main idea in his work.  A sense 
of harmony and unity is achieved when all the 
elements work together to produce emphasis. The 
finding shows that all subjects consent to these 
design principle determining their judgment of 
beauty without any interest. Therefore, these 
adjective pairs are categorized as Disinterestedness 
Affective Meanings (DAM).  These findings agree 
with the objective views which argue that the 
judgment of beauty is determined by the object 
properties. 
 
Besides, the other 20 adjective pairs do not 
significantly correlate with "beautiful-ugly" pair by 
the Regression Analysis.  The result indicates that 
the rating scores of beauty are various for different 
subjects although the affective meaning of the 
adjective pair is the same.  Unlike DAM, or VAM, 
it appears that the affective meaning is not the 
determinant factor in judging beauty of the color 
combinations, but individuals' preference level for 
each affective meaning.  For example, when a 
color combination presents an affective meaning, 
one who likes the affective meaning would judge 
the beauty of the color combination much higher 
than the others who do not like the affective 
meaning. Therefore, these 20 adjective pairs are not 
the somatic markers for all the subjects because the 
degree of swaying the judgment of beauty are 
various for these adjective pairs for different 
subjects.  However, for some people, some of the 
20 adjective pairs are somatic markers, but not for 
all human.  Therefore, these kinds of affective 
meanings are categorized as Subject-dependent 
Affective Meanings (SAM). 
 
To reduce the number of these adjective pairs on 
SAM, Factor analysis with a varimax approach is 
used.  And, three main factors whose eigenvalues 
are larger than 1 are chosen as the main factors.  
Table 3 shows the loadings of the adjective pairs 
 10
Camgoz, N., Yener, C. and Guvenc, D. (2002). 
"Effects of hue, saturation, and brightness on 
preference." Color Research and Application, 27, 
199-207. 
Cupchik, G. C. (1994). "Emotion in aesthetics: 
reactive and reflective models." Poetics, 23, 
177-188. 
Eaton, M. M. (2006). "Beauty and ugliness in and 
out of context." In Contemporary Debates in 
Aesthetics and the Philosophy of Art (ed. M. 
Kieran). 39-50. 
Cupchuk, G.C. and Gebotys, R.J. (1990). 
"Interest and pleasure as dimensions of aesthetic 
response." Emperical Studies of the Arts, 8(1), 
1-14. 
Damasio, A. R. (2000). "A second chance for 
emotion", in R. D. Lane and L. Nadel (eds), 
Fenner, D.E.W. (1996). Introduction to the 
Aesthetic Attitude, Humanities Press, Atlantic 
Highlands, NJ, pp. 2–19. 
Gatto, J. A., Porter, A. W. and Selleck, J. (1987). 
Visual Design, MA: Davis Publications. 
Graham, G. (2006). "Aesthetic empiricism and 
the challenge of fakes and ready-mades." In 
Contemporary Debates in Aesthetics and the 
Philosophy of Art (ed. M. Kieran). 11-21 
Huang, S.-M. (2006). "A study of reading time 
and viewer preferences for a variety of 
character-background chromaticity combinations 
for small traditional Chinese characters." 
Perceptual and Motor Skills, 103, 887-895. 
Huang, S.-M. (2007), "A Study of the 
Consistence of Subjective Ratings for 
Icon-background Color Combinations for Small 
Computer Icons." In: The International 
Conference on Industrial Engineering and 
Engineering Management, 462-466. 
Itten, J. (1975). Design and Form. NY: Van 
Nostrand Reinhold. 
Laviea, T. and Tractinskyb, N. (2004), 
"Assessing dimensions of perceived visual 
aesthetics of web sites." International Journal of 
Human-Computer Studies, 60  269–298. 
Lindgaard, G. and Whitfield, T. W. A. (2004). 
"Integrating aesthetics within an evolutionary and 
psychological framework." Theoretical Issue in 
Ergonomics Science, 5, 73-90. 
Norman, D. A. (2004). "Beauty, goodness and 
usability: Introduction to the special section." 
Human-Computer Interaction, 19, 311-318. 
Osborne, H. (1968). Aesthetics and Art History. 
Harlow: Longman. 
Shieh, K. and Ko, Y. (2005). " Effects of display 
characteristics and individual differences on 
performances of VDT icon design." Perceptual 
and Motor Skills, 100, 305-318. 
Wenzel, C, H. (2005). An Introduction to Kant's 
Aesthetics. MA: Blackwell. 
Whitfield, T. W. A. (2000). "Beyond 
prototypicality: towards a Categorical-Motivation 
model of aesthetics." Empirical Studies of the 
Arts, 18, 1–11.     
Winston, A.S. and Cupchik, G. C. (1992). "The 
evaluation of high art and popular art by naive 
and experienced viewers," Visual Arts Research, 
18(1), 1-14.lar art by naïve  
  
表 Y04 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
此次 IEEM2007 國際會議是由 IEEE 舉辦，並由新加坡國立新加坡大學承辦。被錄
取發表之論文，將收錄在 EI 資料庫。所以，論文品質佳，不虛此行。 
此國際會議舉辦日期由 12 月 2-5 日。此次約有 800 篇論文參與，但僅 500 篇左右
參與發表，另外會場有展示 44 篇 poster 主題，本人於 12 月 3 日下午最後一場，
被指定出席並 oral presentation 投稿論文。因為整個活動是以工業工程為主題，
所以人因丌程只是其中一小部份，共有二場，集中在 12 月 3 日，因此並沒有將整
個人因相關領域皆涵蓋進去。 
因為經費有限，再加上任職學校有行政工作尚未完成，故人僅參加 12 月 2-4 日的
活動。本人於 12 月 2 日下午到達會場，並和與會學者交換心得。有位大陸學者自
稱自己成功運用 TRIX 於產品開發，並自行研發運用 TRIZ 之軟體，並自認非常好
用。第二天 12 月 3 日上午，由 WAY KUO 擔任 keynote speaker；接著則是論文發
表，我參加以設計分析為主題的場次一場，下午則參加人因工程二場之論文發表。
本人並於第二場發表論文。12月 4日早上有一場keynote speech，由Mike Gregory
主講；接著就是由四種期刊的編輯介紹他們的期刊現況和論文方向 
 
二、與會心得 
整個會議包含 poster 和 oral presentation 和 plenary speech 等。因為此次是
集合各不同工業工程研究領域於同一個會議中，可見識到各種不同領域的研究。
第一天(12 月 2 日)，主辦單位辦了一場報到晚會，雖然很寒酸，只有幾盤點心可
以吃，但因已有多位學者報到，所以場面不冷。在此場合，本人有機會和南洋理
工大學副校長 SAY WEI FOO、活動承辦人 ROGER JIAO、MIN XIE 以及河北工業大
學檀潤華教授交換意見，收獲良多，深感值得。檀潤華教授自稱是 triz 的專家，
他們已將 TRIZ 方法自行開發軟體化。由他的言中，可見 TRIZ 應用已多有成就。 
第二天早上則是由郭威教授主講一場沒有奈米管理的奈米工程。郭教授由工業革
命時代談起工程師的角色。他認為現今時代包括：variation, variability, 
accountability, innovation 和 entreprenurship。因此，現今的工業工程師應
是 technologist、practitioner、stratehist、innovator 等。所以工程師的概
念，由原本的解決實體物件問題，走向更多人從事軟體工程設計。也因這時代的
奈米發展，使得materials、nanomachine、bioengineering和medicine、energyand 
tel;ecommunication 等成為這個時代的顯學。他並強調，未來 IE 的角色將更強
調下列幾項：engineering economics and decision analysis、Human 
factors(especially in HCI)、manufacturing system、production、distribution 
and material handling、statistics and decision science、而 IE 所面臨的問
題有：不夠創造力思考、缺乏現代技術。內容很精彩，不虛此行。 
 
表 Y04 
發表論文 
 
 First, the standard deviation of each color combination is 
calculated to judge the rating consistence between 
subjects for each color combination. The larger the 
standard deviation for a specific color combination, the 
deeper chasm among subjects for the color combination 
is. To avoid response-style effects, the rating scores of all 
color combinations were standardized with mean=0 and 
SD=1 for each subject.  Therefore, there were 68.26% 
color combinations whose standardized scores were 
between -1 and 1 for each subject.  Two dimensions were 
rated for each icon-background color combination in the 
experiment: legibility and aesthetics.  The mean of a 
specific color combination is that the sum of subjects’ 
rating scores for the specific color combination is divided 
by the number of the subjects.  Subjects had to rate the 
legibility and aesthetics for each color combination.  
Therefore, for legibility rating, the mean, LMC, can be 
represented as 
n) L(L
1
÷= ∑
=
n
j
iji SMC
 
Where j=1, 2, 3,…, n; i=1, 2, 3,…, m.  The LMCi is the 
legibility mean of the ith color combination.  The LSij is 
the legibility rating score of the ith color combination 
rated by the jth subject. Its standard deviation (LDC) is 
expresses as LDCi, the standard deviation of legibility of 
the ith color combination. Besides, for aesthetic rating, the 
mean, AMC, can be represented as: 
∑
=
÷=
n
j
iji SC
1
n)A(AM
 
Where i=1, 2, 3,…, n; j=1, 2, 3,…, m.  The AMCi is the 
mean of aesthetic rating of the ith color combination.  The 
ASij is the rating score of the ith color combination rated 
by the jth subject.  Its standard deviation (ADC) is 
expresses as ADCi, the standard deviation of aesthetic 
ratings of the ith color combination. The larger the 
standard deviation of legibility rating or aesthetic rating 
for a specific color combination, the deeper chasm among 
subjects for the color combination.   
 Next, Cluster analysis with nonhierarchical 
procedures is used to categorize the color combinations 
by the rating consistence in the experiment.  The 
clustering variables were standard deviation of both 
legibility and aesthetic ratings.  Hence, the most 
consistent color combinations can be found by the cluster 
analysis. 
 1) Subjects: Twenty-one undergraduate students 
from the Formosa University were recruited to participate 
in the experiment, and were each paid NT$600 for their 
participation. Their mean age was 20.7 yr. (SD=0.6).  All 
subjects reported normal ocular health and no clinically 
significant anomalies of accommodation.  Their color 
vision was tested by identifying numbers in the Test Table 
for Color Blindness published by Yu-Da Co. in Taiwan. 
Each subject’s visual acuity was also measured using 
VISION INSPECTOR T127 produced by the Fubio 
Medical Co.  All subjects had a visual acuity of 0.8 or 
better, and normal color vision. 
 2) Materials and Equipments: Fig. 1 showed 58 
colors (including 4 achromatic colors and 54 chromatic 
colors) sampled from the HSB color space, one of 
computer color systems.  Therefore, there were 3306 
(=58×57) color combinations.  The saturation of the 4 
achromatic colors is 0% and the values of brightness were 
33%, 66%, and 99%, respectively in the HSB color space.  
The 54 colors were selected from the combinations of 
color attributes: 6 kinds of hues, 3 kinds of saturation and 
3 kinds of brightness.  The values of the six hues were 0°, 
60° 120°, 180°, 240°, and 300°; the values of the 3 kinds of 
saturation were 33%, 66%, and 99%; the values of the 3 
kinds of brightness were 33%, 66%, and 99% in the HSB 
color space. 
 
 
Fig. 1. The 58 colors used on the experiment. 
 
Sixteen icons shown on fig. 2 were arranged 
horizontally in line in a rectangle (around 45mm height 
and 142mm width) on the center of LCD display modeled 
CMV CT-736D.  The color outside the rectangle was 
black.  The colors were assigned randomly to the icons 
and the rectangle as icon-background color combinations. 
The length of the sixteen icons was 88mm.  The height of 
each icon was 6mm.  The distance between the screen and 
subjects’ eye was 100cm. The visual angle was 20.63 min 
of arc, which was larger than 15 min of visual arc 
recommended by Cushman and Rosenberg [10].  
 
 
Fig. 2. The 16 icons used on the experiment. 
 
 The computer modeled as HP Workstation XW4200 
was used to control the experiment procedure; and the 
experimental material is programmed with Director 8.0.    
The ambient room illuminance was about 43 lux at 
observers’ seats. 
 3) Tasks and Procedures: Subjects performed 
subjective rating for each color combination showed on 
the LCD display. There were two screen pages for each 
color combination.  The first page and the second page 
ask subjects to rate the aesthetic preference and legibility, 
respectively, for the color combination shown in the 
pages.  The rating categories, -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, and 3, 
were presented on the bottom of the display screen.  -3 
means strong disagreement; 3 means strong agreement.  
 463
Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE IEEM
 color combinations then the others.  The number of color 
combinations of clusters decreased as their positions far 
away from the C15, whose mean of standard deviations is 
0.7795 and 0.6683, for aesthetics and legibility, 
respectively. The clusters, C1 and C3, located near the 
bottom left have higher degree of rating consistence.  The 
C1 and C3 only included 2.5711% of the number of color 
combinations. Besides, C1 and C3, located near the 
bottom left had higher degree of rating consistence.  The 
C26 and C28 only included 2.3291% of the number of 
color combinations. That is, there were few color 
combinations which have extremely lower rating 
consistence or extremely higher rating consistence 
between subjects. 
  
Fig. 5.  The central positions of the 28 clusters categorized by Standard 
Deviations of rating scores.  The larger circle of the cluster means the 
larger amount of color combinations included in it 
 
In addition, the results also indicated that the degrees of 
rating consistence between subjects are various for 
different color combinations because the standard 
deviation ranges from 0.4503 to 1.071 for aesthetics and 
from 0.3746 to 0.9592 for legibility, and the number of 
color combinations of clusters decrease as their positions 
far away from the C15. This study standardized the rating 
scores for each subject with mean=0 and SD=1.  It means 
that there are 68.26% color combinations whose 
standardized scores are located between -1 and 1 for each 
subject.  The means of standard deviations (0.7795 and 
0.6683, for aesthetics and legibility, respectively) of C15, 
the center of the 28 clusters, are close to 1, the 
standardized standard deviation in this study.  Therefore, 
the results implied that the degree of rating consistence 
between subjects was low for most color combinations 
because the means of both standard deviations for 
aesthetics and legibility were higher for most color 
combinations. Therefore, the previous research 
suggestions deducted from the single average of user 
aesthetic preference scores might not be appropriate for 
the application of color combinations. 
Besides, the high degree of rating consistence for a 
specific color combination does not mean that it gets a 
high rating score.  Therefore, the color combinations in 
C1 and C3, whose rating scores were the most consistent, 
were categorized into five groups and plotted in fig. 6 by 
clustering variables, both rating scores of legibility and 
aesthetics.  The within STD was 0.14272; the R-Square 
0.979016.  Table 2 shows the both means of legibility and 
aesthetic ratings for the five clusters   In addition to higher 
rating consistence, the color combinations within clusters 
on the top right had higher legibility and aesthetic rating 
scores than those on the bottom left, shown in fig. 6.  
Therefore, the 65 color combinations on CC5 were more 
suitable than those on the bottom left to be used as the 
icon-background of the screen design.  Furthermore, 
skinning design is extensively used in interface design, 
e.g. Windows Media Player and Winamp.  The skinning 
interface allows users to change the look and feel of a 
system at runtime.  It might be appropriate to use one of 
the 65 color combinations on CC5 as a default color 
combination because the 65 color combinations on CC5 
have higher rating consistence among subjects 
 
Fig. 6.  The central positions of the 5 clusters from the most consistent 
color combinations which were categorized by both means of legibility 
and aesthetics rating scores.  The larger circle of the cluster means the 
larger amount of color combinations included in it 
 
 The results showed the various degrees of rating 
consistence between subjects for different color 
combinations.  The reason for this phenomenon might be 
that there was a mediator variable, the affective factor 
affecting subjective judgments for the color combinations.  
When a color combination is presented, one perceives not 
only the features of the color combination, but also the 
semantic meanings of the color combinations.  Different 
people prefer different semantic meanings appeared from 
the color combination.  For example, the one who prefers 
the feeling of “lovely” would like the color combinations 
which present the semantic meaning, “lovely”, and rates 
them with higher scores.  However, it still needs more 
evidences to support this point because the semantic 
meanings of the color combinations are not operated in 
the experiment. The follow-on studies will focus on the 
  TABLE 2 
THE LEGIBILITY AND AESTHETICS MEANS OF THE 5 
CLUSTERS  
 
Cluster Preference Legibility Frequency Percent 
CC1 -1.37543167 -1.812969167 24 13.9535% 
CC2 -0.967059 -1.1788465 20 11.6279% 
CC3 0.042488 0.194724 5 2.9070% 
CC4 0.688126724 0.615210172 58 33.7209% 
CC5 1.007520769 0.894202615 65 37.7907% 
 465
Proceedings of the 2007 IEEE IEEM
