 2
低，會造成質子不易穿透質子交換膜而到達陰
極，雖然陰極所生成之水能夠濕潤膜電極組，
但如果所產生之水份過多便會造成流道積水
而阻礙氣體進入流道內，導致氣體分佈不均形
成壓降，使得燃料電池之性能大幅降低。 
有關即時監測燃料電池之溫度與濕度分
佈已有多篇論文發表 [4-10]，但有的是利用較
大型之商購感測器在燃料電池之外部作監
測，有一些是量測位置只能擺放在氣體之進、
出口，而不能在內部各點位置作監測，並且也
沒有同時監測溫度與濕度之相關文獻發表。 
因 此 本 計 畫 利 用 微 機 電 系 統 技 術
(Micro-electro-mechanical Systems, MEMS)製
作出可撓性微溫、濕度感測器 [11-13]即時監
測燃料電池之膜電極組的溫度及濕度，利用此
技術所製作出來的可撓性微感測器具有的優
點有：(1)體積小；(2)量測位置能精確定義及(3)
能夠批次量產。 
2. 設計原理 
2.1. 溫度感測器之原理 
本計畫所採用之微溫度感測器為電阻式
之測溫電阻體(Resistance Temperature Detector, 
RTD)，即當環境的溫度上升其電阻值也會隨
著提高，此項物理特性起因於金屬導體具有正
溫度係數 α (Positive Temperature Coefficient, 
PTC)，若測溫電阻體之電阻值變化在線性範圍
內，則其感溫電阻 Rt 與溫度變化 ∆T 的關係可
簡化為(1)式： 
　      )T1(RR 0t ∆α+=            (1) 
0ttT −=∆                  (2) 
其中 Rt為測溫電阻體於 t°C 時的電阻值(Ω)；
R0 為測溫電阻體於參考溫度 t0°C 時的電阻值
(Ω)；α 為感溫電阻材料的電阻溫度係數
(%/°C)；∆T 為相對於參考溫度之溫度差(°C)；
t 為測溫電阻體在 t°C 之溫度(°C)；t0為測溫電
阻體的參考溫度(°C)。 
2.2. 濕度感測器之原理 
一般高分子式濕度感測器，依其所使用之
高分子材料的不同可分為電阻式(Resistance 
type)與電容式(Capacitance type)兩種，因電阻
式容易受到溫度的影響，故本研究採用電容式
之濕度感測器，其電容結構為梳狀電極，當高
分子材料所吸收的水氣量增加時，其介電常數
也會隨著環境濕度的升高而跟著增加，而其增
加所改變的電容值可由(3)式求得。 
( )
d
xLwn2C −ε=              (3) 
其中 C 為感測器之電容值；n 為梳狀電容個
數；ε 為高分子材料之介電常數；d 為兩電極
板間的距離；w 為電極厚度；L 為電極長度；
x、d 為不同方向之兩電極間的距離。 
3. 製作流程 
3.1. 可撓性微溫度感測器之設計與製作流程 
可撓性微溫度感測器之外型如圖一所
示，其長、寬之平面尺寸皆為180µm，而最小
線寬為20µm，其製作流程如圖二所示，首先
以矽晶片當作基材，在其上先蒸鍍一層1µm厚
之 高 分 子 薄 膜 － 聚 對 二 甲 苯
(poly-para-xylylene：簡稱parylene)用來保護微
感測器以承受膜電極組的伸縮力量，接著利用
黃光微影製程技術定義出微溫度感測器之圖
形，再使用電子槍蒸鍍機依序蒸鍍150Å的鉻
與2000Å的金，其中鉻為金與parylene之黏著
層，並以金屬剝離法(Lift off)完成微溫度感測
器之製作，再沉積另一層高分子薄膜parylene
以完整包覆微溫度感測器。第二道黃光微影製
程定義出微溫度感測器之外接導線接腳位置
並以反應性離子蝕刻機(Reactive Ion Etching, 
RIE)之氧電漿乾蝕刻parylene，最後再將光阻
移除即完成可撓性微溫度感測器之製作。 
3.2. 可撓性微濕度感測器之設計與製作流程 
可撓性微濕度感測器之外型如圖三所
示，採用左右電極結構之電容式濕度感測器，
其長、寬之平面尺寸為180µm×220µm，而最小
線寬為20µm，其製作流程與可撓性微溫度感
測器大致相同，不同的地方為要沉積第二層高
 4
柏教授以及鐘國濱教授提供寶貴的建議。此外，同
時感謝淡江大學微機電系統實驗室、元智大學奈微
米共同實驗室及燃料電池中心提供設備以利實驗
之進行。 
參考文獻 
[1]  Larminie, J. and Dicks, A., Fuel Cell 
Systems Explained, 2nd Edition, John 
Wiley and Sons, Ltd., Chichester, United 
Kingdom, 2003. 
[2]  Cho, E. A., Ko, J. J., Ha, H. Y., Hong, S. 
A., Lee, K. Y., Lim, T. W., Oh, I. H., 
Characteristics of the PEMFC Repetitively 
Brought to Temperatures Below 0°C, J. 
Electrochem, Soc., Vol. 150, pp. 
A1667-A1670, 2003. 
[3]  Gasteiger, A., Gu, W., Makharia, R., 
Mathias, M. F., Sompalli, B., Wiley, 
Beginning-of-life MEA 
Performance-efficiency Loss Contribution, 
in: Handbook of Fuel Cells, Vol. 3, pp. 
593-610, 2003. 
[4]  Wang, M. H., Guo, H., Ma, C. F., Ye, F., 
Yu, J., Liu, X., Wang, Y., Wang, C. Y., 
Temperature Measurement Technologies 
and Their Applications in the Research of 
Fuel Cells, in: Proceedings of the First 
International Conference on Fuel Cell 
Science, Engineering and Technology, 
Rochester, NY, USA, pp. 95-100, 2003. 
[5]  Vie, P. J. S. and Kjelstrup, S., Thermal 
Conductivities from Temperature Profiles 
in the Polymer Electrolyte Fuel Cell, 
Electrochim. Acta, Vol. 49, pp. 1069-1077, 
2004. 
[6]  He, S., Mench, M. M., Tadigadapa, S., 
Thin Film Temperature Sensor for 
Real-time Measurement of Electrolyte 
Temperature in a Polymer Electrolyte Fuel 
Cell, Sensors and Actuators A, Vol. 125, 
pp. 170-177, 2006. 
[7]  Mench, M. M., Burford, D. J., Davis, T. W., 
In Situ Temperature Distribution 
Measurement in an Operating Polymer 
Electrolyte Fuel Cell, in: Proceedings of 
2003 ASME International Mechanical 
Engineering Congress, Heat Transfer 
Division, Washington, DC, USA, pp. 
415-428, 2003. 
[8] Burford, D. J., Real-time Electrolyte 
Temperature Measurement in an Operating 
Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cell, 
Master Thesis, The Pennsylvania State 
University, University Park, 2004. 
[9]  Nishikawa, H., Kurihara, R., Sukemori, S., 
Sugawara, T., Kobayasi, H., Abea, S., Aoki, 
T., Ogami, Y., Matsunaga, A., 
Measurements of Humidity and Current 
Distribution in a PEFC, Journal of Power 
Sources, Vol. 155, pp. 213-218, 2006. 
[10] David, N. A., Wild, P. M., Hu J., Djilali, N., 
In-fibre Bragg Grating Sensors for 
Distributed Temperature Measurement in a 
Polymer Electrolyte Membrane Fuel Cell, J. 
Power Sources, Vol. 192, pp. 376-380, 
2009. 
[11] Huang, A., Lew, J., Xu, Y., Tai, Y. C., Ho, 
C. M., Microsensors and Actuators for 
Macrofluidic Control, IEEE Sensors 
Journal, IEEE, Vol. 4, pp. 494-502, 2004. 
[12] Aslam, M., Hatfield, J. V., Fabrication of 
Thin Film Microheater for Gas Sensors on 
Polyimide Membrane, in: Proceedings of 
the Second International Conference on 
Sensors: IEEE Sensors 2003, Toronto, Ont., 
Canada, pp. 389-392, 2003. 
[13] Fan, Z., Engel, J. M., Chen, J., Liu, C., 
 6
內部之微觀診斷＂，第三屆全國氫能與燃
料電池學術研討會，pp. FC041，台南市國
立台南大學，中華民國。 
6. 李其源*、朱冠宇 (2008,11)，“可撓性微
型流量感測器應用於微型燃料電池之製
程研究＂，中國機械工程學會第二十五屆
全國學術研討會，pp. A14-28，彰化縣大
葉大學，中華民國。 
7. Chi-Yuan Lee*, Shuo-Jen Lee, Yu-Ming 
Lee and Kuan-Yu Chu (2009,01), 
“Integration of micro flow sensor and 
flexible substrate as GDL in micro fuel 
cell,” The 4th Annual International 
Conference on Nano/Micro Engineered and 
Molecular Systems, pp. 632-635, Shenzhen, 
China. 
8. Chi-Yuan Lee*, Shuo-Jen Lee, Yuh-Chung 
Hu, Chen-Hen Lin, Yu-Ming Lee and 
Wei-Yuan Fan (2009,01), “Integration of 
micro temperature sensor and metal foil as 
gas diffusion layer for micro fuel cell,” The 
4th Annual International Conference on 
Nano/Micro Engineered and Molecular 
Systems, pp. 164-167, Shenzhen, China. 
 
 
圖一  可撓式微溫度感測器之外型及尺寸 
 
圖二  可撓式微溫度感測器之製作流程圖 
 8
 
圖十一  微型燃料電池性能測試系統之架構圖 
圖十二  膜電極組的即時溫度量測 
Micro humidity sensor
94.7 %RH
Tcell = 50°C
H2, O2 : 50ml/min
w/o humidification
Out of range
Time (min)
圖十三  膜電極組的即時濕度量測 
H2, O2 : 50ml/min
Tcell = 50°C
w/o humidification
w/o sensors
w/ sensors
341(mW/cm2
179(mW/cm2)
Max. ∆P = 162(mW/cm2
 
十四  有、無微感測器之膜電極組的電池性能比較圖 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可應用於綠色科技產業。將可撓式微型感測器應用於微型燃料電池
內部，能即時微觀診斷，有助於微型燃料電池商品化及量產，以取
代可攜式電子產品用的電池，將可望成為未來行動 3C 電子產品的
主要電力來源。 
技術特點 
本計畫創新利用微機電系統技術製作出可撓式微型感測器，並將微
型感測器放置在微型燃料電池內部之膜電極組以即時量測其實際
的溫、濕度狀態，使電池內部反應情況能正確掌握，即時監控與調
整，以達到微觀診斷之目的，以提高電池的性能與壽命。此可撓式
微型感測器最大之優點為可應用在燃料電池裡任何想量測的位
置，而且可撓式的特性不但可以彎曲，也不易損壞，在未來對於要
將燃料電池商品化的過程當中更具有發展潛力且能夠達到大量生
產之目地。 
推廣及運用的價值 
最近的研究進展顯示燃料電池很有潛能成為二十一世紀的電力來
源。但是，燃料電池的工作效率和壽命跟它内部的溫度與濕度分佈
息息相關。一般傳統的溫度與濕度感測器由於體積較大，無法應用
於量測燃料電池內部溫、濕度之分佈且量測的位置也不能精確定義
在所需要量測的地方，只能藉由在燃料電池外部之雙極板與燃料氣
瓶進出口量測燃料電池的操作溫度與濕度，而此量測結果並非實際
膜電極組之溫、濕度狀態。 
因此，本計畫提出創新想法利用微機電製程技術製作可撓式微
型感測器用來即時監控微型燃料電池內部之溫、濕度分佈情形，藉
以量取溫、濕度，使電池內部反應情況能正確掌握，即時監控與調
整，以達到微觀診斷之目的，以提高電池的性能與壽命。 
此可撓式微型感測器最大之優點為可應用在燃料電池裡任何
想量測的位置，而且可撓式的特性不但可以彎曲，也不易損壞，在
未來對於要將燃料電池商品化的過程當中更具有發展潛力且能夠
達到大量生產之目地。故此創新微觀診斷技術，對於有興趣的廠商
可進行產學合作與技術移轉，提供人員與技術，以提升國內綠色科
技產業的製造與研發能力，達到世界級的水準。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 
貴單位研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 2
報告內容： 
 
首先感謝國科會計畫(NSC97-2221-E-155-029)的補助，使筆者得以順利參加「2009 IEEE
奈/微米工程及分子系統國際研討會」(2009 IEEE International Conference on Nano/Micro 
Engineered and Molecular Systems; 2009 IEEE-NEMS)，並於會中口頭發表「Fabrication of 
Micro Temperature Sensor and Heater in a Stainless Steel-based Micro Reformer」；「Integration of 
the Micro Temperature Sensor and Metal Foil as Gas Diffusion Layer for Micro Fuel Cell」及
「Integration of Micro Flow Sensor and Flexible Substrate as GDL in Micro Fuel Cell」三篇論
文，並擔任 Nanowires這個場次的主席(session chair)。 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
「2009 IEEE奈/微米工程及分子系統國際研討會」為第四屆舉辦，地點在大陸深圳大梅沙
京基喜來登酒店(Sheraton Dameisha Resort, Shenzhen)舉辦，今年會議主席是來自瑞士之
Nicolaas F. DE ROOIJ教授(University of Neuchatel)。三天的議程中，共安排5篇大會演講
(plenary speaker)、5篇邀請演講(invited session)、5篇專題演講(keynote speaker)，總共吸引了
全世界約30國276篇口頭論文報告(oral presentation)，會後筆者與兩位碩一的研究生及大四的
專題生於研討會看板前合照留影，如圖一、二所示。 
 
今年大會安排5場大會演講(plenary speaker)，分別為Switzerland的IBM Zurich Research 
Laboratory的Emmanuel DELAMARCHE博士主講“Engineering Biosystems: From Artificial 
Protein Architectures to Ultraminiaturized Assays＂；Germany的Hagen KLAUK博士主講
“Nanoscale Field-Effect Transistors for Flexible Displays＂；Japan的Eiji OSAWA教授主講
“Recent Progress in Developments of Single-Nano Diamond Particles＂；USA的Ning XI教授主
講“Nano Robotic Manipulation and Assembly for Manufacturing Nano Sensors and Devices＂；
Japan的Fumihito ARAI教授主講“Bio-Medical Micro-Nano Robotics＂，場場都很精采，得
到與會者極為正面的迴響。 
這次 276 篇被接受的論文皆為口頭發表論文，三天的議程 sessions 包含有
BioMEMS、Nano Material、Micro/Nano Fabrication、MEMS/Nano Sensors and Actuators、
Microfluidics、Nanomaterial Synthesis、Thin Film Fabrication and Characterization、MEMS 
Integration Bonding and Packaging、Novel MEMS Devices、Silicon Micromachining、Optical 
MEMS、Nanowires、NEMS/MEMS Modeling and Simulation、RF MEMS、Carbon Nanotube 
Based Devices、Advanced Micro/Nano Devices、Micro/Nano Energy Generation Systems、
NEMS/MEMS Applications….等多個主題同時進行。 
 4
整合於不鏽鋼微孔洞薄片之上，未來即可與微型燃料電池組裝以量測微型燃料電池內部
流道之流體參數等，如此可讓使用者即時監控微型燃料電池之內部運作狀況。此外，本
研究創新重點在可撓性微型流量感測器整合氣體擴散層部份，除了感測燃料流體速率
外，當電池內部反應溫度過低時，此時微型流量感測器亦可當微加熱器使用，加熱電池
內局部之溫度，以改善電池之性能。 
 
二、 與會心得與建議 
一、 奈米等級相關之研究涵蓋目前微機電系統，此種趨勢無論在台灣或是在世界各大學、
研究機構皆是如此。舉凡研究資源和計畫的走向和規劃皆已由奈米研究概括承受，因
而，將“微機電系統”研究直接躍升為“奈微米機電”(NEMS)的趨勢，將無法避免。所
以進一步考慮奈米效應對微機電系統的影響，作為未來邁向奈米科技的墊腳石，已是
刻不容緩之事。基本上，以筆者的觀點而言，微機電技術或許難以獨撐大樑而成為一
獨立產業，然而在可見的未來，當奈米研究由單一分子或分子團而成功走向自組裝、
自診測或形成一具功能性奈米單元之時；則往昔所累積之微機電技術便再度擔負重要
角色，畢竟，奈米技術並非微系統發展的全部，也唯有由上而下、前後兼顧的長遠規
劃方能使得未來的研究工作順暢成功。 
二、 筆者最近幾年參與奈微米相關的國際研討會發現中國大陸雖起步較晚，但這幾年來在
這相關領域的活動投入蠻積極且有企圖心的，尤其今年主辦單位一併舉辦了
iCAN＇2009 中國區選拔賽(第一屆奈微米技術應用國際大賽)，以及第三屆美新杯中
國 MEMS 傳感器應用大賽，如圖六~八。由中國一家大型微傳感器製造公司「美新半
導體有限公司」廠商提供該公司生產的微型加速規晶片及微型陀螺儀晶片，讓大陸高
校學生進行產品應用之開發研究，其共分為三大主題，一為生物科技的應用；一為居
家安全與通訊應用；一為生活娛樂性應用之開發。筆者發現大陸高校學生之創意，以
及參賽隊伍對作品製作之能力及作品完成度，均讓筆者印象深刻，可見中國在培育奈
微米科技人才上已漸趨成熟，值得我們進一步學習與跟進。 
三、 最近幾年奈微米相關的研討會皆有機會在台灣主辦，不過一個國際會議的成功舉辦，
地主國不僅要有充分的學術實力(獲選發表的文章數量要夠)，實際參加會議的觀眾更
不可少，而這次台灣於此次會議投稿的口頭發表論文(oral presentation)佔整體論文比
例的成績不錯，希望台灣奈微米機電界能繼續提高學術研發實力之外，更希望國科
會、微系統暨奈米科技協會、工研院、業界及學術單位及早有所準備妥善因應，讓台
灣在奈微米機電系統領域能夠具有舉足輕重的地位。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
(一) 2009 IEEE-NEMS論文摘要集一冊。 
(二) 論文集光碟 CDROM。 
(三) 與會者名錄。 
 
 6
 
 
圖四 
 
 
圖五 
 
 
圖六 
 
 8
Fabrication of Micro Temperature Sensor and Heater in a Stainless 
Steel-based Micro Reformer 
 
Chi-Yuan Lee1*, Shuo-Jen Lee1, Wen-Pin Shih2, Chen-Hen Lin1, Chi-Chung Chang1 and Pei-Zen Chang3 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan Ze Fuel Cell Center, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
2 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
3Institute of Applied Mechanics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Abstract  —  Among those problems regarding use of micro 
reformers that have not yet been solved include reducing their 
size, decreasing the amount of CO and combining the fuel cell, 
among others. Therefore, in this work, a micro temperature 
sensor and a heater are combined inside a stainless steel-based 
micro reformer to measure the temperature, to improve 
performance and minimize the concentration of CO. 
Micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) of the micro channel 
type are fabricated on a stainless steel substrate to enhance the 
methanol conversion ratio. A micro temperature sensor and a 
heater are placed separately inside a micro reformer. The main 
advantages of micro temperature sensors are their higher 
accuracy and sensitivity than those of a traditional thermocouple. 
Micro temperature sensors and heaters have not been applied in 
micro reformers and commercial products. Hence, this 
investigation proposes a novel approach for integrating a micro 
temperature sensor and a heater in a stainless steel-based micro 
reformer, to minimize size and optimize performance. 
Keywords  —  micro temperature sensor, MEMS, micro 
reformer 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Stainless steel has recently been used as the substrate in 
many fabrication processes for the following reasons. It is 
easily mass-produced and is inexpensive; it is processed and 
packaged more easily than silicon substrate and it can 
effectively prevent gas leakage. Although stainless steel does 
not have a better corrosion resistance than silicon or noble 
metal, it is better than other metals in these other respects. 
Stainless steel is chosen as the substrate for reasons of cost and 
ease of fabrication. 
Proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFC) use 
hydrogen and oxygen as fuel. The oxygen is taken from the 
atmosphere. Two methods are available for producing 
hydrogen. The first entails the refinement of fossil fuel by 
steam reforming, partial oxidation, coal gasification and other 
processes. The second involves manufacturing hydrogen from 
sources other than fossil fuels. Main examples include water 
splitting, photoelectrochemical water splitting and a few other 
hydrogen fabrication methods. Since fossil fuel is easily 
obtained and the reforming reaction enables hydrogen to be 
produced, hydrogen can be used in fuel cells to generate 
electricity. The use of reformers in fuel cells has led to their 
popularity in generating hydrogen. 
 
 
Reformers with two structures are employed herein. The 
first is a cylindrical structure [1, 2] in which palladium (Pd) 
alloy is used to purify hydrogen directly. The second is a 
planar structure [3, 4], with a much smaller volume. 
Accordingly, a planar reformer design was utilized in this 
investigation. Stainless steel-based micro reformers and micro 
temperature sensors have been published, but the two have not 
yet been considered together. Hence, in this investigation, a 
micro temperature sensor and a heater are combined within a 
stainless steel-based micro reformer to measure the 
temperature and thus improve performance and minimize the 
concentration of CO in the future. 
II. METHODOLOGY 
A. Theory of Micro Reformer 
A series of pre-processing steps much be conducted in a 
fuel reformer module. They involve into four units; (1) fuel 
vaporizer/preheater, (2) fuel steam reformer, (3) hydrogen 
purification unit (membrane separator) and (4) micro 
combustor/heat exchanger. 
Three equations describe the reaction that proceeds in a 
methanol steam reformer. They are respectively the (1) overall, 
(2) methanol cranking, (3) and water gas shift equations [5]. 
 CH3OH + H2O ↔  3H2 + O2             　    (1) 
CH3OH ↔ CO + 2H2                   　    (2) 
CO + H2O ↔ H2 + CO2                　    (3) 
This project was funded by the Ministry of Education of R. O. C. and 
YZU Fuel Cell Center through the grant No. 217019 and National Science 
Council of R. O. C. through the grant NSC 97-2627-M-155-003. 
*Contact author: cylee@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
 10
 
Figure 3.  Flow channel depth, as measured by a surface profiler. 
 
Figure 4.  Roughness of flow channel interior, as measured by a surface 
profiler. 
The micro temperature sensor herein was a resistance 
temperature detector (RTD). The micro temperature sensor and 
the heater were fabricated following the procedure that is 
shown in Fig. 5. In both wet etching and lift-off methods, the 
insulating material was initially being deposited as the 
insulating layer. Hence, the E-beam evaporator was employed 
to evaporate SiO2. An E-beam evaporator produces a high 
temperature and degrades the photoresist, causing the lift-off 
method to fail. Accordingly, the aqua regia etching technique 
was utilized herein to define the pattern. An E-beam 
evaporator was applied to evaporate titanium as the adhesion 
layer and then Au was evaporated. Photolithography was 
performed to define the pattern of the micro temperature 
sensor and the heater. The gold was etched using etchant. It 
was then soaked in acetone to remove the photoresist to yield 
the final micro temperature sensor and heater. 
 
 
Figure 5.  Fabrication of micro temperature sensor and heater. 
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
A. Micro channel flow field plate 
The micro channel flow field plate was successfully 
fabricated, as presented in Fig. 6. 
 
Figure 6.  Micro channel flow field plate. 
B. Calibration of Micro Temperature Sensor 
For adjusting the micro temperature sensor, the sensor was 
first connected to the LCR meter. Then, the sensor was placed 
in a programmable temperature and humidity chamber. The 
temperature inside the chamber was controlled to measure the 
variation of the output resistance of the LCR meter with the 
operating conditions at the same time. Fig. 7 depicts the 
experimental measurement system. 
 12
Integration of Micro Temperature Sensor and Metal Foil as Gas 
Diffusion Layer for Micro Fuel Cell 
 
Chi-Yuan Lee1*, Shuo-Jen Lee1, Yuh-Chung Hu2, Chen-Hen Lin1, Yu-Ming Lee1 and Wei-Yuan Fan1 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan Ze Fuel Cell Center, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
2Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering, National ILan University, ILan, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract  —  Fuel cells will be applied extensively in the future 
as renewable energy sources, explaining why a considerable 
amount of research has addressed this topic. However, among 
the various problems encountered in the mass production of fuel 
cells that have yet to be solved include those associated with the 
bipolar plate, flow channel, catalyst, membrane electrode 
assembly (MEA), gas diffusion layer (GDL) and components. 
Given the present non-uniformity of gas reactions and the 
difficulty of measuring the temperature in a fuel cell, this study 
employs micro-electro-mechanical-systems (MEMS) to integrate 
a micro temperature sensor and a stainless steel foil as a gas 
diffusion layer. Experimental results reveal that the micro 
temperature sensor had an accuracy and sensitivity of 0.5°C and 
2.7×10-3/°C, respectively. 
Keywords  —  micro temperature sensor, MEMS, metal foil, 
GDL 
VI. INTRODUCTION  
Despite the seemingly unlimited demand for energy, fossil 
fuel supplies are limited. The threat of global warming has 
focused attention on the environment and the search for more 
efficient and cleaner sources of energy. Fuel cells, offering the 
advantages of high efficiency, low noise, low pollution, low 
fuel selectivity and a wide range of applications have attracted 
much interest. 
Most methods of determining the temperature in fuel cells 
are external; the internal temperature can only be estimated, 
since determining the actual temperature at each position in a 
fuel cell is difficult. For the purposes of this study, a GDL 
made of stainless steel foil with 50µm thickness was combined 
with a micro temperature sensor in a micro fuel cell. This study 
concerns the fabrication of a stainless steel GDL with micro 
holes, and the micro temperature sensor. In a micro fuel cell is 
a stainless steel GDL with micro holes, based on MEMS 
technology, and a micro temperature sensor made of gold, is 
set between the micro holes to measure temperature inside a 
fuel cell. Although numerous works on making holes on a 
GDL in various materials [1-3] and separately on micro 
temperature sensors [4-6] have already been published, such 
research has not considered together. The present investigation 
seeks to make holes on a 50µm-thick stainless steel foil, 
combined with micro temperature sensor to hold in check the 
reaction inside a micro fuel cell. 
 
VII. METHODOLOGY 
A. Function of Gas Diffusion Layer 
As a multi-functional component of fuel cells, the GDL 
must have high electrical conductivity, corrosion resistance, 
compression resistance and breathability. Its main purpose is to 
guide and distribute uniformly the reactive gas to the catalyst 
layer. 
The gas diffusion, electrical conductivity and heat 
dissipation capacity of GDL depend on the distribution of the 
sizes and the thickness of the GDL [7]. Reducing the thickness 
increases breathability and electrical conductivity, but reduces 
mechanical strength. The electrical conductivity and 
compression resistance of such metal when coated with an 
anticorrosion layer, make it a suitable material for producing 
the GDL. 
B. Theory of Temperature Sensor 
The many temperature sensors can be simply classified into 
two groups - contact and non-contact. Contact temperature 
sensors include thermocouples and resistor sensors. A 
thermocouple sensor generates varying voltage signals whose 
leg combines with different metal to generate a predictable 
voltage at a given temperature and the resistance temperature 
detector (RTD) produces varying resistance values and can be 
divided into two types - 1. resistance wire RTDs, and 2. 
thermistors (thermal sensitive resistor). Thin film RTD sensors 
have numerous advantages, including small volume, high 
accuracy, a short response time and ease of mass production. 
The resistance of a metal is generally given by 
        LR Aρ=                       　    (1) 
This project was funded by the Ministry of Education of R. O. C. and YZU 
Fuel Cell Center through the grant No. 217019 and National Science Council 
of R. O. C. through the grant NSC 97-2221-E-155-029. 
*Contact author: cylee@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
 14
 
Figure3.  Fabrication of micro temperature sensor. 
IX. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
In this work, the MEMS technique was employed to 
fabricate micro holes and micro temperature sensors on a 
stainless steel foil as a gas diffusion layer. In this procedure, 
aqua regia was applied to etch a stainless steel foil, and the 
temperature and the amount of etchant were varied to control 
the etching rate and the uniformity of the size of the holes. The 
density of the holes was determined by the design of the 
photomask. Fig. 4 displays a photograph of the actual product. 
 
 
Figure4.  Integration of micro temperature sensor and GDL. 
The micro temperature sensor was initially connected to the 
LCR meter. It was then placed in a programmable temperature 
and humidity chamber. The temperature inside the chamber 
was controlled to measure the variation in the output resistance 
using the LCR meter with the operating conditions at the same 
time. Fig. 5 depicts the experimental measurement system. 
 
 
Figure5.  Experimental measurement system. 
As a result, the measured temperature range from 30°C to 
160°C was noted, and the resistance varied from 519mΩ to 
701mΩ. The correlation coefficient was 0.987696 
approximately 1(linear); therefore, the experimental result 
demonstrates that temperature is almost linearly related to 
resistance. The calibration curve is displayed in Fig. 6. The 
accuracy and sensitivity are 0.5°C and 2.7×10-3/°C, 
respectively. 
 
 
Figure6.  Calibration curve of micro temperature sensor. 
X. CONCLUSION 
A micro temperature sensor was successfully integrated 
with stainless steel foil as a GDL with micro holes. The 
proposed technique will increase the success rate of the 
formation of variously sized holes in the future. Moreover, the 
GDL will be placed in micro fuel cells with real time 
measurement systems to yield the values of the operating 
 16
 
Integration of Micro Flow Sensor and Flexible Substrate as 
GDL in Micro Fuel Cell 
Chi-Yuan Lee*, Shuo-Jen Lee, Yu-Ming Lee and Kuan-Yu Chu 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan Ze Fuel Cell Center, Yuan Ze University, Taoyuan, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract  —  The production of useable energy is today a 
global issue and the search for alternative energy sources is very 
challenging. Therefore, scientists have’ tried hard to identify 
new alternative energy sources. Fuel cells have potential as an 
indispensable source of electrical power. However, the mass 
production of fuel cells encounters various problems, which are 
yet to be solved, such as determining the fuel flow rate inside fuel 
cells. The product of the chemical reaction that proceeds in a 
fuel cell is water, which lowers the working efficiency of the cell 
and affects the fuel flow rate. No study of the fuel flow rate 
within a micro fuel cell has yet been published. Hence, in this 
work, micro flow sensors are fabricated on a flexible substrate as 
the gas diffusion layer (GDL) using micro-electro-mechanical 
systems (MEMS) within the micro fuel cell. The fundamental 
concept of the micro flow sensor is the use of two sets of micro 
temperature sensors plus and a set of heaters. The temperature 
difference between the two sensors is measured. The heater is 
also used to increase the working temperature of the fuel cell 
when the actual temperature is not favorable. The experimental 
results show an accuracy and sensitivity of the micro 
temperature sensor of 0.5°C and 1.31Ω/°C, respectively. 
Keywords  —  micro fuel cell, MEMS, micro flow sensor, 
flexible substrate 
XI. INTRODUCTION  
Micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) have been 
employed to reduce continually the volume, mass and cost of 
fabricated electronic devices and systems. For numerous novel 
applications, electronic devices must be stable, portable and 
flexible. 
The energy requirements of mankind increase daily, but 
fossil fuel supplies are limited. The threat of global warming 
has focused attention on the environment and the need to find 
more efficient and cleaner energy sources. Fuel cells, which 
offer the advantages of high efficiency, low noise, low 
pollution, low fuel selectivity, and a wide range of possible 
applications, have attracted considerable interest. In recent 
years, fuel cells have been used in portable electronic products, 
such as mobile phones, personal digital assistants (PDA), 
notebooks and others computer, communication and consumer 
electrics (3C) products. In fuel cells, although various metallic 
materials have been used to form the gas diffusion layer [1, 2], 
and numerous studies of micro flow sensors have been 
published [3, 4], have not yet been combined. This 
investigation addresses the integration of micro flow sensors 
and a stainless substrate in micro fuel cells to determine a flow 
parameter to diagnose the operating conditions of a fuel cell. 
The microphenomena of a fuel cell, associated with the 
chemical reaction, water and other factors, are quite 
complicated. Such issues influence the efficiency of the fuel 
cell. No investigation has yet properly elucidated the internal 
operation of a fuel cell. Accordingly, in this work, a micro 
flow sensor will is set in a fuel cell to measure the flow 
parameter. 
XII. METHODOLOGY 
The study is divided into three main parts, as follows. (1) 
Fabrication of micro holes on stainless steel foil; (2) 
fabrication of micro flow sensor; (3) calibration of micro 
sensors. A 40µm-thick piece of stainless steel foil is adopted 
as the substrate of GDL. Photolithography and wet etching 
are applied to fabricate the micro holes. MEMS and the 
aforementioned foil are utilized to fabricate the micro flow 
sensor. The micro flow sensor will be used in the future to 
monitor the fuel flow rate in micro fuel cells. 
A. Function of Gas Diffusion Layer 
The GDL is a multi-functional component of fuel cells; it 
must have high electrical conductivity, high corrosion 
resistance, high compression resistance and high breathability. 
Its main purpose is to guide and uniformly distribute the 
reactive gas in the catalyst layer. 
The gas diffusion, electrical conductivity and heat 
dissipation capability of GDL depend on the distribution of the 
sizes and the thickness of the GDL [5]. Reducing the thickness 
increases breathability and electrical conductivity, but reduces 
mechanical strength. If the metal is coated with an 
anticorrosion layer, then the electrical conductivity and 
compression resistance will make the metal a suitable material 
for producing a GDL. 
B. Theory of Micro Flow Sensor  
Micro flow sensors are grouped into thermal flow sensors 
and non-thermal flow sensors. Thermal flow sensors have 
three parts - (1) hot wire/ hot film anemometer, (2) 
calorimetric sensor, and (3) time of flight flow sensor. All of 
these parts can be fabricated using MEMS technology. The 
micro thermal flow sensor herein was composed of two micro 
temperature sensors and a micro heater. The purpose of the 
micro flow sensor is to measure the temperature differences 
around the micro heater. The major cause of the temperature 
difference is caused by the fluid flow’s carrying away heat 
flux, as shown in Fig. 1. 
The heat flux qm is expressed as 
This project was funded by the Ministry of Education of R. O. C. and 
YZU Fuel Cell Center through the grant No. 217019 and National Science 
Council of R. O. C. through the grant NSC 97-2815-C-155-003-E. 
*Contact author: cylee@saturn.yzu.edu.tw 
 18
spun to form an insulating layer, and the micro flow sensors 
are connected via an Al wire to make measurements (Fig. 3e). 
 
 
Figure3.  Fabrication of micro flow sensor. 
XIV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
In this work, the MEMS technique was adopted to 
fabricate micro holes and micro flow sensors on a stainless 
steel foil as a gas diffusion layer. In this approach, aqua regia 
was employed to etch a stainless steel foil, and both the 
temperature and the proportion of etchant were varied to 
control the etching rate and the uniformity of the size of the 
holes. The design of the photomask determined the density of 
the holes. Figs. 4 and 5 display photographs of micro flow 
sensor. 
 
 
Figure4.  Optical microscopic photograph of micro flow sensor. 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure5.  Integration of micro flow sensor and GDL. 
To calibrate the micro flow sensor, the sensor was firstly 
connected to an LCR meter. Then, the sensor was placed in a 
programmable temperature chamber. The temperature within 
the chamber was controlled to measure the variation of the 
output resistance from the LCR meter under the operating 
conditions at the same time. Fig. 6 displays the experimental 
measurement system. 
 
Figure6.  Experimental measurement system. 
 
Fig. 7 plots the relationship between temperature and the 
resistance response of micro temperature sensor, which varied 
from 0 to 0.105 in the temperature range 30-120°C. The 
experimental results indicate that the micro temperature sensor 
sensitivity is 1.31Ω/°C. Fig. 8 plots the relationship between 
the voltage and the resistance of the micro heater; the voltage 
ranged from 0-30 (V) as the resistance response varied from 0 
to 0.05. 
