 1
具雙向功率轉換與寬廣速度範圍之電動機車驅動器研製(II) 
Development of a Bi-directional Power Flow and Wide Speed Range Motor Drive for Electrical Scooters(II) 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-159-020 
執行期間：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：蘇信銘 
計畫參與人員：徐志賢，李國誠，孫晨祐 
執行單位：明新科技大學電機工程系 
 
1.摘要 
本計畫主要目的在依循國科會電力工程學門重
點規劃主題「電動機車電動機設計、轉換器、驅動
及控制」，而研製一具雙向功率轉換與寬廣速度範圍
之電動機車驅動器。在過去一年裡，本計畫已開發
完成一同時具寬速範圍及再生煞車功能之新型內嵌
式永磁無刷電動機驅動器，並應用於電動機車的驅
動器系統中。本計畫所研發的新型驅動器是採用一
低成本數位信號處理器為控制核心與一電壓源反流
器為功率轉換電路來實現，其結果已進行實車測
試，並且利用一些實測波形印證所研發驅動策略的
性能。 
關鍵字：電動機車、弱磁控制、內嵌式永磁無刷電
動機、再生煞車。 
Abstract--To follow the research topic named Electric 
Motor Design, Power Converter, Drive and Control for 
Electrical Scooters which is planned by the Electrical 
Power Engineering Division of the NSC, the major 
purpose of this project is to develop a new 
bi-directional power flow and wide speed range motor 
drive for electrical scooters in the past one year. The 
project has successfully developed a new interior 
permanent magnet brushless DC motor (IPM-BLDC) 
drive for electrical scooters. The major features of the 
developed drive include capability of regenerative 
braking and wider speed operating range than that of 
the traditional drive. These features are usually not 
considered or integrated in the conventional electrical 
scooter drives. Implementation of the drive uses a low 
cost digital signal processor as the control core and a 
voltage source inverter as the power conversion part. 
Some road tests by using the developed drive have also 
been conducted and some experimental waveforms are 
provided to show the performances of the developed 
drive. 
Keywords：electrical scooter, field weakening control, 
interior permanent magnet brushless DC motor 
(IPM-BLDC), regenerative braking. 
2.報告內容 
2.1 前言 
本研究計畫的背景是依據九十六年度國科會工
程處電力學門研究發展規劃書之電機機械領域前瞻
研究主題2中的研究主題「電動機車電動機設計、轉
換器、驅動及控制」，並且是延續九十五年國科會
電力學門所規劃的重點主題「電力電子於車輛產業
之應用」所執行的「具雙向功率轉換與寬廣速度範
圍之電動機車驅動器研製」計畫，所以今年所完成
計畫是屬於九十五年該計畫的第二年度計畫。為配
合政府發展高效能驅動與節能政策，報告人於九十
五年度提出「具雙向功率轉換與寬廣速度範圍之電
動機車驅動器研製」之二年期計畫，感謝貴會於97
年通過本第二年度之計畫，使本計畫能順利執行完
畢，並已經達成預期目標。依循第二年度本計畫規
劃的進度，報告人更參照九十六年度國科會工程處
電力學門研究發展規劃書的研究方向及在執行本計
畫第一年的經驗中得到的更詳細技術及重點，並將
第一年所遇到的瓶頸一一克服，及在第二年研發出
 3
事內嵌式永磁同步電動機驅動系統的研究，其研究
成 果 論 文 都 發 表 在 國 內 外 期 刊 與 研 討 會 中
[12],[13]，逢甲大學黃昌圳教授近年來發表了一些利
用有限元素法設計內嵌式永磁同步電動機的研究成
果[14]，宜蘭大學陳正虎教授進行泛用型無刷直流電
動機驅動器研究等[15],[16]。如圖 1 所示的電動機車
馬達轉子結構，其轉子磁石是使用銣鐵硼強力磁
石，因為磁石嵌入轉子矽鋼片中，在電動機高速轉
動時磁石沒有飛脫的顧慮，這種電動機適合高轉速
應用。值得注意的是，近年來無論由圖 1 所示或參
照國際論文所述[2]，其轉子結構大部分都是採內嵌
式永久磁石結構，原因是當轉子高速旋轉時可防止
磁石的飛脫，並且在學理上內嵌式永磁電動機本來
就比表面黏著式永磁電動機具有更高速運轉的特性
[2]。一般而言，永磁式電動機可能因為轉子磁石充
磁方式、磁石擺放方式或矽鋼片結構或形狀不同而
有不同反電勢波形，當其反電勢為弦波時，一般稱
之 為 永 磁 式 同 步 電 動 機 (permanent magnet 
synchronous motor, PMSM)，若其反電勢為近似梯形
波時，一般稱為無刷直流電動機(brushless DC motor, 
BLDC)，因此本文在以下皆簡稱內嵌式永磁同步電
動機為 IPMSM，而內嵌式無刷直流電動機簡稱為
IPM-BLDC，例如一般市售電動車輛的驅動電動機多
採用 IPM-BLDC 配合三組較便宜的低解析度霍爾感
測器來感測轉子位置，而本研究即採用內含
IPM-BLDC 的電動機車來進行實車測試。 
2.3 IPM-BLDC 的新型 120 度驅動方法 
執行本計畫的第一年裡所研發的 IPM-BLDC
驅動方法在高速時性能相當優越，其基本概念就是
永磁式同步電動機的弱磁控制方法。但是 IPM-BLDC
電機在低速高轉矩情況下，以上的方法並沒有達到
較高電能轉換效率之性能，於是在執行本計畫的第
二年度之初期，本計畫研發出一新型 IPM-BLDC 驅
動方法，能夠使 IPM-BLDC 無論工作於低速高轉
矩，或高速弱磁，都獲得比先前研發的方法更高的
性能。參考圖 2 是所測試 IPM-BLDC 之 A 相反電勢
電壓 Ane 、B 相反電勢電壓 neB 與代表對應轉子位置的
2 個方波信號 hall a 與 hall b 的波形，一般的 BLDC
是利用霍爾元件介面電路感測轉子磁石位置，而輸
出相差 120 度電氣角度的方波信號。圖 3 是用來驅
動 IPM-BLDC 的全橋反流器功率電路圖，根據圖 3
裡的功率開關位置，一般進行 IPM-BLDC 的弱磁驅
動時反流器的切換模式可以如圖 4 所示[17]，該反流
器是以超前傳統驅動 BLDC 反流器適當相位角進行
切換的方式達到繞組電流超前繞組反電勢的弱磁功
能，但是在學理上，在低速高轉矩時，要發揮 IPMSM
的磁阻轉矩也必須產生弱磁效應，然而對驅動較非
線性磁路分佈的 IPM-BLDC 而言，在低成本驅動器
的要求前提下，較不易利用複雜的數學分析配合各
式較複雜的感測元件進行高精度控制，所以本研究
尋求一個折衷方法，在配合硬體成本考量下，利用
軟體技巧完成一新型 IPM-BLDC 驅動方法，即透過
反流器，根據 IPM-BLDC 之轉速 rω 與反流器功率開
關的工作週期，結合轉子位置資訊，以控制反流器
功率開關的切換，當低轉速高轉矩及高轉速時，均
能適時採相位超前換相法控制 IPM-BLDC 運轉，藉
此使 IPM-BLDC 操作於全部操作區域，即從低轉速
高轉矩的重載到弱磁高轉速，都能發揮學理上的高
能源轉換效率之效能。接著藉由圖 5 的 IPM-BLDC
驅動功能系統方塊圖為基礎，配合圖 6 的本驅動方
法程式流程圖來詳細說明本方法。如圖 6 所示，計
算驅動電壓相角及選擇功率開關控制信號單元先進
行判斷開關工作週期命令 D*是否低於一臨界工作週
期 Dth，若是，則進行計算超前的驅動電壓相角
thadv，公式為 
r
rbase
)
thadvmax
(=thadv ωω                 (1) 
其中 thadvmax 可以是一最大超前的驅動電壓相角，
rbaseω 可以是馬達額定轉速；若否，則進行計算第一
個暫時的超前驅動電壓相角 thadv1，公式為 
r
rbase
)
thadvmax
(=thadv1 ωω                 (2) 
接著再計算第二個暫時的超前驅動電壓相角
thadv2，公式為 
)D-(D
)D-thadv1)(D-(thadvmax
=thadv2
thmax
th
*
    (3) 
接著再將兩個暫時的超前驅動電壓相角相加，得超
前的驅動電壓相角 thadv。以上所計算的 thadv 經判
斷，若 thadv 大於 thadvmax，則將 thadv 限制為
 5
IPM-BLDC面板上註明的額定為4極，48V，580W，
14.5A，反流器直流鏈電壓 DCV 使用4顆22Ah的12V鉛
酸蓄電池串連。 
首先是針對所提 IPM-BLDC 新型驅動方法與傳
統方法的實驗結果，以實驗波形圖呈現並做比較與
說明。圖 11 是採傳統驅動法於低速重載時 A 相電流
與直流鏈電流實驗波形圖，圖 12 則是相同條件下，
採所提驅動法於低速重載時 A 相電流與直流鏈電流
實驗波形圖，比較這兩圖形中的 A 相電流波形發
現，在相同條件下，所提驅動法產生的 A 相電流波
形峰對峰值約為 13.8A，比傳統驅動法的電流波形峰
對峰值 20A 為低，表示所提方法產生的連波轉矩較
傳統法為小。再比較這兩圖形中的直流鏈電流波形
發現，所提驅動法產生的平均電流為 12.5A，比傳統
驅動法產生的平均電流 13.8A 為低，表示所提方法
有較高電能轉換效率。第二個實驗是對 180 度
IPM-BLDC 驅動方法的實驗結果，圖 13採 180 度驅
動法於急速時再生煞車之 A 相電流與直流鏈電流波
形，圖 14採 180 度驅動法於停止後再啟動之 A相電
流與直流鏈電流波形，以上兩圖形是在相同一次實
驗由極速時產生再生煞車動作，直到轉子完全停
止，再驅動電動機到高速的一次循環裡，將再生煞
車動作之波形與 180 度驅動之波形放大結果，由圖
中發現 180 度驅動的電流波形為弦波並且也具有弱
磁效果。第三個實驗是對所提 IPM-BLDC 新型再生
煞車方法與傳統方法的實驗結果，以實驗波形圖呈
現並做比較與說明。圖 15 是採傳統再生煞車法於開
始再生煞車時之 A 相電流與直流鏈電流波形，圖 16
為採所提再生煞車法於開始再生煞車時之 A 相電流
與直流鏈電流波形，比較兩圖發現所提所提再生煞
車法的直流鏈再生煞車電流連波比傳統方法明顯
減，表示所提方法之再生煞車過程比較和緩，但再
生煞車能量兩者仍相當接近。 
2.7 結論 
本計畫已成功研製一種低成本具再生煞車與寬
速控制之無刷直流電動機驅動器，可應用於電動機
車驅動系統。所研製的驅動器使用低成本控制晶
片，無須額外增加硬體線路，只需更改軟體的驅動
策略。再者，所提的驅動策略具有容易實現的優點，
所以本驅動器具有較低成本的優勢。其特色在於無
論低速高轉矩或高速運轉都比傳統方法有較小電流
峰值，與較小直流鏈電流，所提再生煞車方法也比
傳統方法具更和緩再生煞車動作，適合應用於一般
需要寬廣速度範圍的調速驅動載具。在實測方面，
已經將建立的驅動器雛形連接到一市售電動機車
上，並進行實車測試，其性能相當好。因此，本計
畫大致已經完成原計畫書所設定的目標，接下來可
將此成果尋求技術轉移的可能，並進一步撰寫學術
論文發表。 
3.參考文獻 
[1] T. M. Jahns and V. Blasko, “Recent Advances in Power 
Electronics Technology for Industrial and Traction Machine 
Drives,” IEEE Proceedings, vol. 89, no. 6, pp. 963-975, June 
2001. 
[2] B. Stumberger, A. Hamler, M. Trlep, and M. Jesenik, “Analysis of 
Interior Permanent Magnet Synchronous Motor Designed for 
Flux Weakening Operation,” IEEE Trans. on Magnetics, vol. 37, 
no. 5, pp. 3644-3647, Sep. 2001. 
[3] C. L. Chu, M. C. Tsai, and H. Y. Chen, “Torque control of 
brushless DC motors applied to electric vehicles,” in Proceeding 
of the IEEE-IEMDC2001, 2001, pp.82-87. 
[4] M. C. Tsai, M. C. Chou, and C. L. Chu, “Control of a 
variable-winding brushless motor with the application in electric 
scooters, ” in Proceeding of the IEEE-IEMDC2001, 2001, 
pp.922-925. 
[5] Y. M. Liu and L. K. Chang, “Design and Implementation of 
Energy Regeneration in Brushless DC Motor with the Simplest 
Topology,” in Proceeding of the 23th ROC Symp. on Elect. Pow. 
Eng., 2002, pp. 1447-1451. 
[6] Ying-Shing Shiao, Yong-Long Chen, Rong-Wen Huang, and 
Chung-Hong Huang, “Design and Implementation of a 
Bidirectional Converter for Battery-Powered Motorcycles,” in 
Proceeding of the 23th ROC Symp. on Elect. Pow. Eng., 2002, pp. 
1194-1199. 
[7] Yen-Shin Lai, Fu-San Shyu, and Yung-Hsin Chang, “Novel 
Loss Reduction Pulsewidth Modulation Technique for 
Brushless dc Motor Drives Fed by MOSFET Inverter,” IEEE 
Transaction on Power Electionics, vol.19, no.6, 
pp.1646-1652, Nov. 2004. 
[8] Yen-Shin Lai, Fu-San Shyu, Chia-Wan Lin and Wen-Shen Chang, 
“Novel Torque Boost Technique for Brushless DC Motor Drives 
without Current Sensor,” in Proceeding of IEEE-IECON2004, 
Nov. 2004, pp.2870-2873. 
[9] C. K. Lin, T. H. Liu, and S. H. Yang, “A nonlinear position 
controller design with input-output linearization technique for an 
IPMSM control system,” IET Proc.-Power Electronics, vol. 1, no. 
1, Mar. 2008, .pp. 14-26. 
[10] J. L. Shi, T. H. Liu, and Y. C. Chang, “Position control of an 
interior permanent magnet synchronous motor without using a 
shaft position sensor,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 54, no. 4, 
Aug. 2007. 
[11] J. L. Shi and T. H. Liu, “Nonlinear controller design for an 
interior permanent magnet synchronous motor including field 
 7
*D
thD<D*
r
rbase
)
thadvmax
(=thadv ωω
r
rbase
)
thadvmax
(=thadv1 ωω
)D-(D
)D-thadv1)(D-(thadvmax
=thadv2
thmax
th
*
thadv2+thadv1=thadv
thadvmax>thadv
thadvmax=thadv
 
圖 6 IPM-BLDC 新型 120 度驅動方法程式流程圖 
rω
rω
*
rω
*V rθmaxV
 
圖 7 IPM-BLDC180 度驅動功能系統方塊圖
0
S2
S1
S5
S6
S3
S4
Ane
o0 o90o30 o150 o360o210 o270 o330  
圖 8 IPM-BLDC 再生煞車於切換相角落後 30o的切換模式 
Digital control unit
rω
S2
S3
S4
S5
S6
S1
regenerative command
rθ
*R
*R
Electric energy storage
Full 
bridge
inverter
IPM
BLDC
Rotor position 
sensors
Mechanical
load
rotor region
Rotor region detection 
and rotor position angle 
calculating unit
Speed 
calculating  
unit
hall
a, b, c
Regenerative
Control
unit
 
圖 9 IPM-BLDC 新型再生煞車功能系統方塊圖 
 
rthr <ωω
*
base
)R
thlagmax
(=thlag R
thlag2+thlag1=thlag
thlagmax>thlag
thlagmax=thlag
rω
*
base
)R
thlagmax
(=thlag1 R
r
rbase
)
thlagmax
(=thlag2 ωω
 
圖 10 IPM-BLDC 新型再生煞車方法程式流程圖 
 
圖 11 採傳統驅動法於低速重載 A 相電流與直流鏈電流波形 
 
圖 12 採所提驅動法於低速重載 A 相電流與直流鏈電流波形 
 
 9
4.計畫成果自評 
本計畫已依循本計畫書所設定的目標，順利研
發了一種低成本具再生煞車與寬速控制之無刷直流
電動機驅動器，且已經將建立的驅動器雛形連接到
一市售電動機車上，並進行不同測試來印證本方法
的各種性能。實驗結果發現其性能都相當滿意，而
且此驅動器的特性具有實用性，其成果可以進一步
與產業結合，而參與計畫的三位碩士班研究生也已
獲得相關的實務訓練。在學術方面，由本計畫經費
所資助，報告人於 2009 年五月已將部份成果發表一
篇論文於 IEEE-ICIEA2009 國際研討會，參與本計畫
的二位碩士班研究生徐志賢與李國誠也分別獲得本
校及本系資助部份經費，而與報告人一同前往參加
ICIEA2009 研討會，拓展視野。再者，報告人目前正
積極尋找合作廠商，希望將本研究成果轉移到業
界。報告人也將本年度計畫之成果申請二件發明專
利，其相關資料如本文最後所附。綜合以上所述，
本計畫大致已經完成原計畫書所設定的目標。 
本計畫所資助已發表之成果資料如下： 
[1] Shinn-Ming Sue, Kun-Lin Wu, Jhin-Sian Syu, and Kuo-Cheng 
Lee, “A Phase Advanced Commutation Scheme forIPM-BLDC 
Motor Drives,” in Proceeding of the IEEE-ICIEA2009- IEEE 
International Conference on Industrial Electronics and 
Applications, May 25-27, 2009, pp.2010-2013. (EI) (NSC 
97-2221-E-159-020) 
[2] 蘇信銘，凸極無刷直流馬達驅動方法(中華民國發明專利申請
案第 098128466 號，申請日期：98.08.25) (NSC 
97-2221-E-159-020) 
[3] 蘇信銘，凸極無刷直流電機之再生煞車控制方法(中華民國發
明專利申請案第 098129022 號，申請日期：98.08.28) (NSC 
97-2221-E-159-020) 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-159-020 
計畫名稱 
具雙向功率轉換與寬廣速度範圍之電動機車驅動器研製(II) 
Development of a Bi-directional Power Flow and Wide Speed Range Motor 
Drive for Electrical Scooters (II) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
蘇信銘     
明新科技大學電機系   副教授 
會議時間地點 25-27 May 2009, Xi’an, China 
會議名稱 
(中文)第四屆 IEEE 工業電子與應用研討會 
(英文)The 4th IEEE International Conference on Industrial Electronics and 
Applications 
發表論文題目 
(中文)換向相位超前切換策略於內嵌式無刷直流馬達驅動 
(英文)A Phase Advanced Commutation Scheme for IPM-BLDC     
       Motor Drives 
一﹑參加會議經過 
報告人於 2009 年 5 月 25~27 日赴中國大陸西安參加第四屆 IEEE 工業電子
與應用研討會(IEEE ICIEA2009)，其中參與由 B. K. Bose 教授發表的主題演講
“Global Warming-How Power Electronics Can Help In Solving The Problem?”，B. K. 
Bose 教授的演講內容，是針對全球正在面對的能源以及環境暖化問題為關切重
心，關心冰川溶化、海平面上升等等重大環境議題，在我們電力電子專業領域
力的專家們能夠貢獻哪些力量，共同保護屬於大家的地球，及我們該以怎樣的
態度促進相關產業的走向去面對這樣的現實問題。 
報告人這次也帶領 2 位執行本計畫的碩士班研究生研究助理徐志賢與李國
誠參加本會議，並發表一篇執行本計畫的研究成果論文，帶領研究生參加國際
研討會，增進研究生國際交流經驗及國際視野，對學生將來的發展有正面幫助，
2 位學生參加本次研討會的生活費及來回機票費每人由本校明新科技大學專案
簽呈各獲得 10000 元補助外，其餘支出均自行負擔。其中徐志賢同學參與第二
天 5 月 26 日的 PMSM Control Session，發表的論文題目是”A Phase Advanced 
Commutation Scheme for IPM-BLDC Motor Drives”，而報告人也由大會安排擔任
 
報告人在會場主持論文問題的發問與討論 
 
B.K.Bose 教授在本場次發問與討論 
 
 
 978-1-4244-2800-7/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE                              ICIEA 2009 
A Phase Advanced Commutation Scheme for 
IPM-BLDC Motor Drives 
Shinn-Ming Sue, Kun-Lin Wu, Jhih-Sian Syu, and Kuo-Cheng Lee 
Department of Electrical Engineering  
Minghsin University of Science and Technology 
Hsinchu 30401, Taiwan 
sue7811@must.edu.tw 
 
  
Abstract—This paper presents a phase advanced 
commutation scheme for IPM-BLDC motor drives. In order to 
utilize the torque capability of an IPM-BLDC motor as much as 
possible for a low cost and information limited drive, the inverter 
gating time is advanced such that the phase angle of the stator 
current can lead that of the corresponding back-emf. Hence the 
reluctance torque of an IPM-BLDC can be developed properly. 
The motor electric parameters, rotor speed as well as the inverter 
switching duty cycle are used to determine the advanced angle 
instead of look up table method or complicated evaluation 
scheme.  Experimental results show that the proposed scheme can 
achieve higher efficiency and more extended speed range than the 
conventional control scheme does. 
Index Terms—Interior permanent magnet brushless DC 
(IPM-BLDC) motor, phase advanced commutation. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Permanent magnet brushless DC (BLDC) motors have 
become popular because of merits of high efficiency, high 
power density and ease of control. Particularly, as the rotor 
permanent magnets are buried inside the rotor steel, one can 
name it the interior permanent magnet BLDC (IPM-BLDC) 
motor which has a mechanically robust rotor structure. As the 
high speed operation is an issue such as the electric vehicle 
drive, the IPM-BLDC motor can become a choice. 
Generally, a three-phase inverter with 120 electrical-degree 
and two-phase conduction scheme is used to control a three 
phase BLDC motor. In addition, to generate the demanded 
motor torque efficiently, position sensors may be properly 
installed at the stator to detect position of the rotor magnets 
such that the gating signals can control the inverter accordingly. 
For a BLDC motor with trapezoidal like back emfs, the basic 
idea of the 120 electrical-degree and two-phase conduction 
scheme is to control the line current as a rectangular waveform 
as well as to keep it in phase with the corresponding phase back 
emf to generate the optimal constant output power. For this 
type of control scheme, the fundamental components of line 
current and phase back emf are also in phase with each other. 
Hence it can be analog to the principle of control of the zero d-
axis current in the vector controlled permanent magnet 
synchronous motor drive. Therefore, it can approximately 
imply the minimum copper loss control of the BLDC motor 
                                                          
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council of Taiwan 
under Grant NSC 97-2221-E-159-020. 
drive. For a practical BLDC motor drive, assume that the line 
current is increased from zero toward the demanded amplitude 
at the commutation instant. The line current cannot respond 
immediately because of the inductive winding time constant. 
Hence, a delayed current waveform as compared to the 
demanded one causes the unwanted torque ripple and the 
decreasing of the output power [1]. Some phase advanced 
commutation schemes were proposed [1]-[3] to mitigate this 
effect. If the motor terminal voltages can be sensed, the phase 
advanced angle was set to be equal to half of the diode free 
wheeling time period [2]. In [3], by using the sensed terminal 
voltage information, an iterative learning algorithm and a fuzzy 
logic controller are employed to determine the proper 
commutation phase angle to achieve maximum torque 
generation. These two methods need voltage sensing circuits 
and are suitable for sensorless control schemes. Because 
determination of the proper phase advanced commutation angle 
depends on rotor speed, DC link voltage, and load condition, 
the calculation of a approximate advanced angle was divided 
into constant current region and constant voltage region such 
that these two rules are combined into a transition control 
scheme to include full speed range operation [1]. Generally, 
only three hall sensors are provided for rotor PM position 
detection in a cost effective BLDC motor drive. There is no 
other sensor such as current or voltage detection device. Hence, 
another phase advanced commutation scheme could be 
developed according to limited information.  The generated 
torque of a salient pole permanent magnet motor can be divided 
into two components named the electro-magnetic torque and 
the reluctance torque [4] and hence a proper negative d-axis 
current should be applied to achieve its theoretical minimum 
copper loss operation [5], [6]. Apparently, the IPM-BLDC 
motor is one of the salient pole PM motors which is suitable for 
high speed operation [7]. If there is no current control loop in 
the IPM-BLDC motor drive, one can develop a control scheme 
to generate proper negative d-axis current to approximately 
achieve minimum copper loss performance and thus it is the 
major concern of this paper. This paper is organized as follows. 
The basic control concept is firstly discussed in Section II. 
Then the proposed phase advanced commutation scheme is 
explained in Section III. A hardware implementation and some 
experimental results are provided in Section IV. Finally, some 
conclusions are made in the last section. 
2010
Authorized licensed use limited to: MINGHSIN UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHOLOGY. Downloaded on August 3, 2009 at 21:07 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
          
rising slope of Ai . In addition, the higher demanded current 
level has the longer commutation time period. For the phase C 
equation in (2), because S3 is turned on and free wheeling 
diode of S5 is conducting at the same time, CBV  equals zero. 
Furthermore, Bnv  keeps approximately a constant negative 
value and cne  is positive and linearly decreasing. Hence, the 
falling slope of Ci  depends on the time constant SS RL /  and 
the absolute value of the right hand side of (2). Ideally, if Ai  
reaches its steady state and Ci  reaches zero at the same time, 
the commutation period of time does not generate torque ripple. 
One of the factors to determine the rising slope of Ai  is the time 
constant SSS RL /=Γ . Hence, one can find that under different 
rotor speed, the same time constant has different electric angle. 
The relationship between the electric angle and SΓ  is 
rmSωθ ΓΓ p3=S                                                         (3) 
where p and rmω  are number of poles and rotor speed in r/min 
respectively. Hence, one can observe that the proper phase 
advanced angle depends on 
SΓθ . 
Furthermore, for the IPM-BLDC motor drive, due to the 
non-sinusoidal back-emf waveform of the IPM-BLDC motor, 
the representation of the electrical governing equations 
appears highly nonlinear. These equations show difficult to be 
formulated or reformulated as a compact form. Hence, the 
discussion of its features is now analog to the discussion of an 
sinusoidal IPM synchronous motor (IPMSM). As shown in 
Fig. 4 are trajectories of the minimum copper loss curve, the 
current limit curve and some voltage limit curves on the d- and 
q-axis current plane for an IPMSM [6]. The current limit curve 
limits the operating current to prevent over current fault and 
the voltage limit curves show that as the more rotor speed 
increases, the corresponding voltage limit curve shifts more 
left then the available operating region is decreased. For 
example, the operable region AE0IA of rAω  is larger than the 
operable region CE0C of rCω  as shown in Fig. 4. It is worth to 
mention that the minimum copper loss curve AIO shows as the 
q-axis current is increased, the corresponding d-axis current is 
more decreased. It implies that as the load is more heavily, the 
phase angle of stator current should advance more with respect 
to the corresponding back-emf and vice versa. According to 
the above discussion, one can assign the phase advanced angle 
of an IPM-BLDC according to both stator time constant and 
stator load current demand as 
Dk=
SΓθθadv                                                         (4) 
where k is a scaling factor and D is the PWM chopping duty 
cycle that indirectly represents the load current demand. 
Although the duty cycle is not directly proportional to the load 
current, it also contains rotor speed information. However, as 
the heavy load or the high speed condition occurs, the PWM 
duty cycle always tends to get large and it quite coincides with 
(4). Hence, (4) can be a reasonable approximation of a proper 
phase advanced angle. 
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
Fig. 5 shows a speed control block diagram of a tested 
IPM-BLDC motor drive as an implementation example. As 
reference to Fig. 5, the control core is a low cost digital signal 
processor. The input signal *rω  is the speed command and rω  
is the rotor speed which is calculated from the Speed 
Calculation block. The control variable *u  is the output of the 
Speed Controller and Limiter block. The input signals of the 
Phase Advanced Commutation Control block are *u , rω , *rω , 
rθ , and rotor region. The major function of the Phase 
Advanced Commutation Control block is to decide the proper 
gating signals of the inverter according to the input 
information such that the phase angle of the stator current can 
lead the corresponding back-emf. The functions of the other 
blocks in the control core are the same as conventional control 
schemes. In order to verify the feasibility of the proposed 
scheme, a speed controlled IPM-BLDC motor drive is built 
according to the system block diagram of Fig. 5. The 
specifications of the tested IPM-BLDC motor are 4 poles, 48V, 
15A, 580W.  The  rotor  position  sensors  are three Hall-effect 
sensors with a phase displacement of 120 electric degrees. The 
tested motor is then coupled with the transmission gear of an 
electrical scooter. Fig. 6 shows the waveforms of hall sensor A 
and three phase back-emfs of the tested IPM-BLDC motor. 
-30 -25 -20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 25 30
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
0
dsi
qsi
A
B
C
I
rAω
rCω
rBω
rArBrC ωωω >>
ecurvlimit  current  
ecurvlimit   voltage
curve  loss
copper minimum  
E  
Fig. 4. Trajectories of the minimum copper loss curve, the current limit curve 
and some voltage limit curves on the d- and q-axis current plane for an 
IPMSM. 
 
rω
*
rω
*u rθ*
rω
 
Fig. 5. Control block diagram of a tested IPM-BLDC motor drive. 
 
 
2012
Authorized licensed use limited to: MINGHSIN UNIVERSITY OF SCIENCE AND TECHOLOGY. Downloaded on August 3, 2009 at 21:07 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
