  
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
建構一適用於電機機械系統鐵損評估及測試之 
模組化與精準化流程規範 
 
 
計畫類別： 個別型計畫   整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-110-077-MY3 
執行期間：  100 年 8 月 1 日 至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立中山大學電機工程學系 
 
計畫主持人： 劉承宗 教授 
計畫參與人員： 林秀瑛、張智文、陳樵儒 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告  完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，一年二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年  8  月  22   日
  II
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
With the rigorous efficiency constraints, selections of appropriate magnetic steels for 
constructing electromagnetic products that are operated with complex magnetization inputs have 
now become important factors to meet those energy saving and performance enhancement 
requirements. Besides the costs, proper iron loss information of the products that are constructed 
by different magnetic steels will be the key concerns [1], [2]. Therefore, detailed finite element 
analyses (FEA) on the specific product structures, combining with comprehensive manufacturers’ 
iron loss datasheets that covered a wide operational frequency range at certain flux density levels 
of the steels, are generally applied to obtain reliable iron loss estimations in the design stage [3], 
[4]. However, if there is not enough measurement information of the steel, some empirical 
expressions have to be adopted to incorporate with the FEA [5], [6]. Due to the high overhead 
requirements in software and steel information, extensive efforts, on developing suitable schemes 
for deriving appropriate operational flux information [7]-[10] and mathematical iron loss models 
[11], have been supplied with good agreements to the actual measurements of the products. 
However, to meet the specific application objectives, various arrangement designs of electric 
machines integrated with power converter devices have been widely developed. Consequently, 
the magnetic fluxes that are flowing through the machine iron cores will include higher order 
harmonics. For evaluating these iron losses, based on the magnetizing curves and the measured 
iron loss results supplied by the steel manufacturers, the empirical expressions are generally 
applied. But, these well-established expressions that have been adopted by either the numerical 
FEA tools [12], [13] or the analytical models can only fit for certain operational frequency range. 
As a result, higher order harmonic effects that are exhibited in some parts of the machine iron 
cores might not be properly represented. Also, with the nonlinear hysteresis characteristics, it is 
generally not feasible to cover the recoil inner-loop behaviors resulted from magnetic harmonics 
in those iron loss estimations obtained from common analytical models. Alternatively, though the 
deficiency resulted from the iron loss estimation at individual element can be minimized by 
adopting the FEA, the cost of both excessive computation efforts and expensive software tools 
might not be acceptable. To overcome these drawbacks, a systematic analyzing scheme that can 
preserve both the nonlinear properties of magnetic steels and the flux diversities at machine iron 
cores, thus the iron losses of electromagnetic steel products can be conveniently and rationally 
evaluated, is certainly expected. 
 
II. DERIVATIONS OF PRELIMINARY INFORMATION 
 
The iron loss of an electromagnetic steel product can be generally divided into two parts, 
namely the eddy-current loss and the hysteresis loss. Though different schemes have proposed 
diverse mathematical models for those calculations and contributions to the total iron losses of 
the products [14], operational flux densities, field intensities, and frequencies are the common 
key factors that will affect the estimation accuracies. Without using the FEA, the magnetic 
equivalent circuit (MEC) techniques are generally applied for solving the preliminary information 
of these factors for convenience. 
By taking one of the commercialized magnetic steels as an example, with its nonlinear 
magnetizing characteristics being illustrated in Fig. 1 [15], the product made by this material 
were first divided into many small components. With relatively smaller partitions in the machine 
pole tips and product structure corners, the corresponding magnetic equivalent circuit can then be 
established. All the components were assigned by some permeance settings at the initial time 
instance, and the circuit is solved with the specified external magnetomotive force (MMF). Since 
the obtained component flux densities might not meet their corresponding permeance, the entire 
MEC have to be solved iteratively until the solutions are converged, and then the system can 
  IV
estimated from the MEC, by setting all the circuit parameters (resistance, leakage inductance, and 
winding turns) that were provided from the manufacturer of the equivalent Epstein Frame circuit, 
a backward scheme for approximating component input voltage waveform for the emulation can 
be derived as: 
 
 1 3 1 3 1 1 3 1 1 3( ) [( ) ] ,sj j j j j m j m j
dV V V r r i L L i V V
dt
          (1) 
 
 
(a) Single-phase transformer connected to a full-bridge converter. 
 
(b) 6/4 switched-reluctance motor. 
Figure 3.  Analyses of two electromagnetic steel products by magnetic equivalent circuits at one 
time instance. 
  
(a) Conceptual illustration of the Epstein Frame test setup. 
 
(b) Equivalent circuit model. 
Figure 4.  The Epstein Frame system for magnetic steel iron loss tests. 
  VI
Based on these expressions, with magnetizing current as input while the corresponding flux 
linkage as output, the equivalent magnetizing inductance Lm1 that is characterizing the mutual flux 
linkage and the hysteresis effects can be represented by a nonlinear functional block in the 
emulation process. Hence, at every time instance, the emulation process will provide the 
calculated magnetizing current im1j to this block, and the devised flux linkage information mj will 
then be sent back to the Epstein Frame circuit for solving the circuit information at the next time 
instance. 
 
C. The Integrated Numerical Simulation Process 
 
From the devised input voltage waveform Vsj, by integrating Preisach model for representing 
the magnetizing inductance Lm1, the desired flux linkage mj can be numerically derived by 
solving the equivalent Epstein Frame test circuit. With this information, the magnetizing voltage 
Vm1j and the line current i1j can then be calculated from (1), and the required magnetizing current 
im1j can thus be calculated from the emulation. Such emulation process will then proceed to the 
next time instance for deriving the mj and so on. Since the hysteresis effects have been properly 
modeled, the possible magnetizing harmonics and the resultant inner-loop characteristics of all 
the steel product components will be appropriately represented on the emulation results. The 
desired iron loss at every component can now be obtained by proper calculations from these 
calculated circuit variables. 
Since the equivalent Epstein Frame test circuit for every individual component can be solved 
sequentially, after all the product components have been performed by the emulation processes, 
by considering the physical volume ratios among steels for the standard Epstein Frame setup and 
the product components, the product iron losses can then be composed by: 
 
 , ,( )j h j e jP P P   , (8) 
 
where Pj is the iron losses of component j, Ph,j and Pe,j are respectively the component hysteresis 
and eddy current losses. 
 
IV. REALIZATIONS AND ASSESSMENTS 
 
To demonstrate the proposed emulation process, the two products as shown in Fig. 3 are 
investigated. The structures of these two products are given in Fig. 6, and their physical 
parameters are listed in Table I. At rated operational conditions, the winding currents of these two 
products will inherently consist of some harmonics, and the magnetizing inner-loop behaviors 
will be inevitably exhibited in the magnetic fluxes that passing through the product iron cores. 
For simpler illustrations, the higher order harmonics with negligible magnitudes will be ignored. 
With system MMFs being defined and core materials being specified, the MEC of the 
 
Figure 6.  Structures of a single-phase transformer and a 6/4 SRM. 
  VIII
voltages and the final converged magnetizing currents at the jth components of these two products 
are illustrated in Fig. 8. With these detailed circuit information, as illustrated in Fig. 9, the 
corresponding B-H curves at jth components of the transformer and the SRM can then be derived 
from the magnetizing current im1j and flux linkage mj. It can be seen that the hysteresis 
inner-loop characteristics of the magnetic steel can be properly modeled. Therefore, it is 
confident that with such detailed representation, any specific application of various voltage 
sources and machine structures can then be analyzed appropriately. 
The evaluated iron losses based on both the proposed scheme and the FEA are listed in 
Tables II and III. Apparently, with more uniformly distributed fluxes, the relative improvements 
of solutions with more MEC components on the transformer will be much smaller than those on 
the SRM. Since the iron loss post-processing works of FEA were performed with detailed 
manufacturer’s steel database (CSC 50CS470), selections of adequate empirical expressions are 
not required. As it is not feasible for the commercial FEA tools to include all the manufacturers’ 
magnetic steel databases and the inexperienced users might not be able to select the most 
appropriate empirical expressions, it is confident that the propose scheme can be used for less 
software tool requirement while can still supply the rational estimation results. 
 
 (a) Transformer input voltage.  (b) Transformer magnetizing current. 
 
 (c) SRM input voltage. (d) SRM magnetizing current. 
Figure 8.  Emulated input voltages and magnetizing currents at the jth components of the two 
products. 
 
 (a) B-H curve of the transformer. (b) B-H curve of the SRM. 
Figure 9.  The corresponding B-H curves at jth components of the two products. 
  X
VI. REFERENCES 
 
[1] E. Dlala, “A simplified iron loss model for laminated magnetic cores,” IEEE Trans. Magn., 
vol. 44, no. 11, pp. 3169-3172, 2008. 
[2] D. Miyagi, N. Maeda, Y. Ozeki, K. Miki, and N. Takahashi, “Estimation of iron loss in 
motor core with shrink fitting using FEM analysis,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 45, no. 3, pp. 
1704-1707, 2009. 
[3] H. Nam, K. H. Ha, J. J. Lee, J. P. Hong, and G. H. Kang, “A study on iron loss analysis 
method considering the harmonics of the flux density waveform using iron loss curves 
tested on Epstein samples,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 1472-1475, 2003. 
[4] R. Kaczmarek, M. Amar, and F. Protat, “Iron loss under PWM voltage supply on Epstein 
frame and in induction motor core,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 189-194, 1996. 
[5] C. P. Steinmetz, “On the law of hysteresis,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 72, no. 2, pp. 197-221, 1984. 
[6] G. Bertotti, “General properties of power losses in soft ferromagnetic materials,” IEEE 
Trans. Magn., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 621-630, 1988. 
[7] M. F. Hsieh and Y. C. Hsu, “A generalized magnetic circuit modeling approach for design 
of surface permanent-magnet machines,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Elec., vol. 59, no. 2, pp. 
779-792, 2012. 
[8] K. T. Chau, M. Cheng, and C. C. Chan, “Nonlinear magnetic circuit analysis for a novel 
stator doubly fed doubly salient machine,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 38, no. 5, pp. 
2382-2384, 2002. 
[9] A. R. Tariq, C. E. Nino-Baron, and E. G. Strangas, “Iron and magnet losses and torque 
calculation of interior permanent magnet synchronous machines using magnetic equivalent 
circuit,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 46, no. 12, pp. 4073-4080, 2010. 
[10] D. Zarko, D. Ban, and T. A. Lipo, “Analytical calculation of magnetic field distribution in 
the slotted air gap of a surface permanent-magnet motor using complex relative air-gap 
permeance,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 42, no. 7, pp. 1828-1837, 2006. 
[11] Y. Guo, J. G. Zhu, J. Zhong, H. Lu, and J. X. Jin, “Measurement and modeling of rotational 
core losses of soft magnetic materials used in electrical machines: A review,” IEEE Trans. 
Magn., vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 279-291, 2008. 
[12] The Magsoft Corporation, Flux3D User’s Guide, Version 10, Ballston Spa, NY, U.S.A., 
2009. 
[13] The JSOL Corporation, JMAG-Studio V10.0, Tokyo, Japan, 2010. 
[14] J. C. Olivares-Galvan, R. Escarela-Perez, F. de Leon, E. Campero- Littlewood, and C. A. 
Cruz, “Separation of core losses in distribution transformers using experimental methods,” 
Canadian J. Elec. Comp. Eng., vol. 35, no.1, pp. 33-39, 2010. 
[15] China Steel Corporation (2012, Mar. 1). Customer Service/Production/ Products 
Specifications/Laminated Products/Specification. Available: http://www.csc.com.tw 
/csc_e/pd/mlg_std5_1.htm. 
[16] International Standard, CEI IEC 404-2, Methods of Measurement of the Magnetic 
Properties of Electrical Steel Sheet and Strip by Means of An Epstein Frame, 1996. 
[17] I. D. Mayergoyz, and G. Friedman, “Generalized Preisach model of hysteresis,” IEEE 
Trans. Magn., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 212-217, 1988. 
  12
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期：  101年 08月 22日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：建構一適用於電機機械系統鐵損評估及測試之模組化
與精準化流程規範 
計畫主持人： 劉承宗 教授 
計畫編號：NSC 98‐2221‐E‐110‐077‐MY3   領域：電機機械 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）模組化鐵損估算方法 
（英文）Module‐based Iron Loss Evaluation Scheme for Electric 
Machinery Products 
成果歸屬機構 國立中山大學 發明人 (創作人) 
劉承宗、徐豫偉 
林秀瑛、陳樵儒 
技術說明 
（中文）提出一系統化之評估流程架構，可提供藉由電磁鋼片堆疊所架構之
電機作合理且快速的鐵損估算。由於不同的結構安排與激磁輸入將會使得電機
中磁通具有不均勻分佈之特性，因此利用鋼片之出廠量測資訊來估算鐵損將與
實際值產生大的誤差，造成選擇適當鋼片材質時出現相當的不確定性。本技術
中利用適當的規範條件將電機軛鐵分割，即可合理地估算出電機各部元件中的
操作磁通值。而電機的鐵損估算即將各模組之鐵損資訊與估算磁通積分。比較
結果證實此流程架構將提供予硬體量測與鋼片鐵損估算資料間一具有足夠精
確可信賴度的數值分析工具。 
（英文）A  systematic  scheme  that  can provide  reasonable  and  fast  iron  loss 
evaluations  of  electric  machinery  that  are  constructed  by  laminated 
electromagnetic  steels  will  be  proposed.  With  their  various  structural 
arrangements  and  magnetization  inputs,  fluxes  flowing  inside  those  machine 
cores will not be uniformly distributed. Thus, estimations of  iron  losses based on 
the steel manufacturers’ datasheets will exhibit  large deviations  from  the actual 
ones,  and  uncertainties  are  always  arisen  on  the  selections  of  proper  steel 
materials.  By  partitioning  the  machine  cores  based  on  proper  boundary 
constraints, rational fluxes on the machine parts can be estimated. The evaluation 
scheme is thus formulated by integrating the module‐based iron loss information 
and the estimated flux information. From comparison results, it is confirmed that 
this  scheme will provide a  reliable evaluation  tool  that  can bridge  the accuracy 
gaps  among  hardware  product  measurements  and  material  datasheet 
estimations. 
產業別 金屬業、電機及電子機械器材業、電力供應業、機電工程業 
技術/產品應用範圍 
此發明將可對於電磁鋼片相關的出廠測試資料庫建立上提供更
為完善的規劃，使得製作不同之電機機械成品後的實際鐵損能夠
很容易地預先掌握其等級而無須透過實體成品測試或是繁複的
三維有限元素磁場計算。 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
提供予鋼鐵與金屬工業電磁鋼片更完整之相關出廠性能量測資
料庫建立之依據；亦可提供電機製造設計產業在設計開發新型電
機應用時簡易又可靠的性能評估基準工具；對電機使用者亦能提
供新應用領域與操作環境的快速使用判斷參考。 
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 2
【出席國際學術會議報告】 
 
國際電機電子工程師學會工業應用分會 2011 年年會 
The 2011 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting 
 
國立中山大學電機工程學系  教授  劉承宗 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此次之國際電機電子工程師學會工業應用分會 2011 年年會（The 2011 IEEE 
Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting）乃是於 2011 年的十月九日起至十月十
三日止，一共是五天的時間於美國佛羅里達州奧蘭多市的 Walt Disney World Swan and 
Dolphin Hotels 所舉行。一共有來自超過 30 個國家研究製造發展及應用、工業程序、
工商電力系統及電能轉換系統等領域的專家學者超過二百人參與了此項盛會，除了有約
百餘篇的學術論文於大會所安排的各場發表會中作口頭型式的發表（ Oral 
Presentations）外，大會也同時在整個議程中安排了數場的講習課程（Tutorial 
Sessions）及相關專業廠商的工業應用實務之心得交流及論壇（Panel Discussions），
以供來自各國之專家學者彼此交換學習經驗，盛況之熱烈由此可見。 
 
本人此次於十月八日晚間搭乘華航班機飛至桃園轉飛美國洛杉磯市，再轉搭美國
達美航空直飛至奧蘭多市，經驗關等入境手續後於當地九日上午八點多抵達目的地旅
館，安頓行李並稍事休息調整時差後即立刻往赴會場參加當天下午開始的大會相關活
動。因本工業應用分會年度會議乃係第三次將其中的工業驅動部門相關之研發成果轉移
至另一項國際性研討會ECCE 2011（The 2011 IEEE Energy Conversion Congress and 
Exposition）發表，因此會積極投入參與本年度傳統之工業應用分會年會的成員也已穩
定下來。但由於會議地點在美東距離台灣甚遠，且又是在學期開始不久，因此雖有台科
大、北科大、成大、中山及高海科大等校共約十位教授與會，但整體來說相對的國內來
參與會議的人數還是稍少了些。而相對的，由中國大陸、日本及南韓等國家及地區則有
相當多的研究單位及學者參加，這是感覺上稍為有所遺憾的事。雖然本人的論文係被安
 4
究與開發工作，同時也在多次的 IAS 年會
會議中有相關的論文發表。故除了參加前
述的個人論文發表工作之外，本人參與此
項會議的另一項重要任務即是因為本人
亦身為 IEEE IAS 中「金屬工業委員會」
之副主席（Vice Chair, Metal Industry 
Committee, IAS, IEEE），對於該委員會
核心成員的會議亦必須完全的投入參
與，以規劃該一委員會相關的運作與發展
方向，如圖依所示即為這次在十月十日晚我們於大會會場中所召開委員會之情形（本人
因拍照，故無法在相片中顯現）。 
 
另外很值得欣慰的就是，本人在前一年之 IEEE IAS 2010 Annual Meeting 中，於
Metal Industry Committee 相關場次內所發表的論文 “A Systematic Iron Loss 
Evaluating Scheme for Electromagnetic Steel Products”獲得了該年度最佳論文的第二
名（Meritorious Paper Award）。因此如圖二所示，在委員會上亦得到現任 Metal Industry 
Committee 之主席 T. Dionise 的頒發獎狀並接受全體與會成員的喝采鼓勵。 
 
由於奧蘭多市位於美國東南岸，交通往返非常辛苦，在考慮了與會便利性及飛機
銜接的問題後，本人乃是停留在該市直到會議第四天（十月十二日）傍晚所有之技術討
論會議之相關議程結束後，趕赴機場搭乘美國達美航空班機直飛西岸之洛杉磯市，再轉
搭隔日（十三日）清晨之華航直飛班機返回台灣桃園，再轉接駁機至高雄時則已是十四
日早上了，總算是結束了這一趟辛苦但收獲蠻多的國際會議行程。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次由國際電機電子工程師學會之工業應用分會所主辦的「2011 年國際電機電子
工程師學會工業應用分會年會」實為國際間相關電機工業應用領域上最為重要的高水準
 
圖二 本人得到現任 Metal Industry Committee
主席 T. Dionise 頒發前一年度（2010 年）最佳
論文第二名獎狀 
 6
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
Proceedings of the 2011 IEEE Industry Applications Society Annual Meeting:  
Includes all the papers that were presented in the meeting, in CD form. 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：劉承宗 計畫編號：98-2221-E-110-077-MY3 
計畫名稱：建構一適用於電機機械系統鐵損評估及測試之模組化與精準化流程規範 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 3 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 9 9 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
