II
英文摘要
In the recent years, wireless networks have experienced a great growth which
has given rise to new research challenges. Mobile ad hoc networks (MANET) are
infrastructureless wireless network and are composed of many mobile devices with
wireless interfaces. The networks can operate well without any infrastructure.
MANET has fully decentralized topology. It changes dynamically as nodes move and
the node reorganize themselves to enable communications. In MANET, each mobile
device can be treated as a node. The source node can relay packets to the destination
node by other nodes in MANET.
Unfortunately, the misbehaviors of node are common phenomenon. These
misbehaviors are due to selfish or malicious reasons. A default of link due to the
wireless medium is rare. Misbehaviors can happen at all layers. This project will
discuss about the non-cooperative behaviors at the network layer. Since the memory,
the bandwidth, and the power saving are very important in MANET. Hence some
nodes want to save their memory, bandwidth, and power by dropping packets from
the other nodes. These nodes with misbehaviors are called the selfish nodes. These
selfish nodes will impact the efficiency, the reliability, and the fairness in a whole
MANET.
In order to maintain the reliability and the fairness, this project will focus on
some common the selfish behaviors to discuss and propose the effective methods to
detect the selfish nodes in MANET. Through the packets transaction each other, let
the selfish nodes are easily detected by the normal nodes. For the reliability and the
fairness reasons, once the selfish nodes are detected, the normal nodes in MANET
will adjust the transmission paths and exclude the selfish nodes from the transmission
paths. For the detection methods of the selfish nodes proposed by this project, we will
use the ns-2 simulator to observe the detection rate and the false detection rate at
different moving rate of the nodes.
Keywords：Mobile Ad Hoc network, misbehavior, selfish node, detection rate
2A. AODV Routing Protocol
In AODV routing protocol [9], there are four control messages used to establish and maintain the
transmission paths. These control messages include Hello message, Route Request (RREQ) message, Route
Reply (RREP) message, and Route Error (RERR) message. In MANET, each node will broadcast the Hello
messages to its neighbors cyclically and tell its neighbors he is live. When the neighbors receive the Hello
message, the neighbor nodes will add the information of the nodes sent the Hello message to its routing table.
If a source node wants to send data to the destination node, the source node will check its routing table to
search the destination node. If the destination node has not been found in the routing table of the source node,
the source node will broadcast a RREQ message to its neighbors. Each its neighbors’node also broadcast the
received RREQ messages to its neighbors. Through this way again and again until the destination node will be
found. When the destination node receives the RREQ messages sent by its neighbors, the destination node will
reply a RREP message to his neighbor node that its RREQ message is first received by the destination node.
If the neighbor node receives the RREP message, it also replies reversely the RREP message to the preceding
neighbor node according to the recodes in its routing table. When the RREP message is sent back to the source
node, the transmission path can be established.
During the data transmission, if a node in this transmission path can not communicate with its neighbor
node in this path, this node will send a RERR message to the source node and remove the information
belonged to this transmission path from its routing table. This RERR message will notice the source node that
the transmission path has broke. When the source node receives the RERR message, it will retransmit RREQ
message to rebuild a new transmission path.
B. Behaviors of Selfish node
The nodes, called selfish nodes, intend to gain the greatest benefits from the networks while trying to
preserve their own resources. The resource includes hardware, battery life or bandwidth. Selfish nodes only
attempt to communicate with the nodes it wants to send data packets to. They may refuse to cooperate when it
receives routing packets or data packets that they have no interest in. Hence, they either drop data packets or
refuse to retransmit routing packets that they have no interest in. For the AODV routing protocol, the possible
behaviors for the selfish node can be classified as follows [5, 10]:
1) Do not forward RREQ messages：If there are selfish nodes that they do not forward RREQ
messages in MANET, when they receive RREQ messages, they will not forward these messages and drop
these to avoid being the route member for other nodes. Hence they can avoid forwarding any messages for
others. This behavior will cause that the transmission path must be built on more nodes.
2) Do not send Hello messages: The main objective of this kind of selfish node is to hide itself and to
avoid being included in the others’transmission path.
3) Do not forward Data messages: For routing information, this kind of selfish node will forward the
messages but it will not relay data messages and drop them. This misbehavior will impact the performance of
MANET
4) .Delayed forwarding RREQ messages: In order to avoid being the route member, after receive a
RREQ message, this kind of selfish node will forward this message with a delay near the upper limit of
4source address field is filled the address of the source node broadcasted the RREQ message. After waiting for
a period of time, if the data checked node has reply this data checking packet, the data checked node will be
identified a normal node. Otherwise the data checked node is identified to a selfish node. In Figure 4, after
received a data packet, the dada checked node will check the destination address field in the data packet. If the
address is the same as the address of the data checking node, this data packet will be identified to a data
checking node. At this time, the data checked node will look up its routing table according to the source
address field in the data checking packet to find next data checked node. Through this way, we can check the
transmission path whether the selfish nodes exist or not.
C. Detection Algorithms for the Case of“Do Not Forward RREP Messages”
In the normal conditions, after the destination node has received the RREQ messages sent from its
neighbors, the destination node will choice the intermediate node whose REEQ message is earliest
received by the destination node and sends back a RREP message to this intermediate node to build a data
transmission path. But there are the selfish nodes of “Do not forward RREP messages”; the dada 
transmission path will not be established. In order to search these selfish nodes, in this project, we will
apply a RREP detecting packet to detect the kind of selfish nodes. The detail algorithms will be described
as follows.
After the destination node sent back a RREP message, it will wait for the data packets sent by the
source node. After waiting for a period of time, if the destination still has not received any data packet
from the source node, the destination node enables the detection mechanism. In this mechanism, we have
defined two roles: the RREP checking node and the RREP checked node. The node that sends the RREP
detection packets is called the RREP checking node. The previous node of this RREP checking node in
the data transmission path is called the RREP checked node. The detail of algorithms for the RREP
checking node and the RREP checked node are respectively shown in Figure 5 and Figure 6.
From Figure 5 shown, after waiting a period of time, if the destination node still has not received any
data packet, it changes the role to be a RREP checking node and perform the detection works. The RREP
checking node first sends a RREP detection packet to its pervious node in the transmission path, called the
RREP checked node, and enables a timer. The RREP checking node fills its address in the source address
field of the RREP detection packet. If the RREP checking node has received the replied RREP packet sent
by the RREP checked node before this timer expires, the RREP checked node is identified to a normal node.
On the contrary the RREP checked node is identified to a selfish node of “Donot forward RREP
messages”.
As the descriptions in Figure 6, when the RREP checked node receives a RREP packet, it checks the
source address field in RREP packet whether the address is the same as the RREP checking node or not. If
yes, the RREP packet is identified to a RREP checking packet and it will be sent back to the RREP
checking node. Then the RREP checked node changes its role to be the RREP checking node and performs
the RREP checking works. The RREP checking node sends a RREP checking node with the source address
that is itself to its previous node (called the RREP checked node) in the transmission path. If the source
address field in RREP packet is not the RREP checking node, the RREP checked node sends the RREP
6neighbor is falsely identified a selfish node. The other observation in Figure 8 is that the number of selfish
node is smaller, the false detection rate is larger in spite of the detection rate is larger too.
The detection rate and the false detection rate for the case of“Do not forward data messages”are shown in
Figure 9 and Figure 10, respectively. As Figure 9 and Figure 10 shown, when the moving rate of nodes is
faster then the detection rate of selfish node for “Do not forward data messages”is larger. Also the false
detection rate of selfish node for “Do not forward data messages”is larger too. This is due to the node
movement.
Figure 11 shows the detection rates of the selfish nodes of “Do not forward RREP message” with 
different moving rates. As can be observed from Figure 11, the detection rate is higher while the moving rate
of the nodes is faster. This reason is the transmission path is easily built in the selfish nodes when the moving
rate of the nodes is faster. Figure 12 shows the false detection rate of the selfish nodes of “Do not forward 
RREP message” with diferent moving rates. In Figure 12, we observe that the false detection rate is higher
while the moving rate of the nodes is faster. This reason is due to the mobility of node.
B. THE THRESHOLD-BASED METHODS
According to the observation results described in pervious section, when the moving rate of node is higher
then the false detection rate of selfish node is larger in spite of the detection rate is also larger. In order to
decrease the false detection rate, we will propose a threshold-based method to do this.
In the proposed detection methods described in Section III, if a normal node detects a node has
misbehavior a time, this node will be identified to a selfish node. Hence the detection rate is higher but the
false detection rate is higher too. In order improve this, we set a detected threshold to determine whether a
node is the selfish node or not. Once the total number of misbehavior of a node detected by other nodes is
more than or equal the detected threshold, this node is identified.
In this section, we also use ns-2 simulator to verify the threshold-based method. In order to find the better
value of threshold, we will use various thresholds to simulate. The necessary parameters are listed in Table II.
TABLE II. SIMULATION PARAMETERS FOR THRESHOLD-BASED METHOD
Parameter name Setting value
Area 1000 m X 1000 m
Total number of nodes 50
Traffic type CBR ( 10 packets/s)
Moving rate of node 20 m/s
Total number of selfish
nodes
10, 20, 30, 40
Pause time 0 s
Simulation time 100 s
Threshold value 6,8,10
8Ad Hoc Networks and Detection and Countermeasure Methods,”Proceedings of the 7th International
Conference on Mobile Data Management (MDM 2006).
[6]F. Kargl, A. Klenk, M. Weber, “Sensors for Detection of Misbehaving Nodes in
MANETs,“http://medien.informatik.uni-ulm.de/forschung/publikationen/dimva2004.pdf
[7]F. Kargl, A. Klenk, S. Schlott, and M. Weber, 2005, Advanced Detection of Selfish or Malicious Nodes in
Ad hoc Networks, Springer Berlin / Heidelberg..
[8]H. Liu, J. Delgado-Frias, S. Medidi, “Using A Cache Scheme to Detect Selfish Nodes in Mobole Ad Hoc
Network,”in Proceedings of the Sixth IASTED International Conference Communications, Internet, and
Information Technology, July 2-4, 2007.
[9] C. E. Perkins, “Ad hoc On-Demand Distance Vector (AODV) Routing,”RFC 3561, IETF
NetworkWorking Group, 1998.
[10] 吳連文，余瑞峰，陳君豪，"用於無線隨意網路自私節點偵測之新的演算法,"第九屆離島資訊
技術與應用研討會,May, 28-29,2010.(國科會計畫: NSC98-2221-E-366 -004-)
Figure1. The algorithm of the RREQ checking node. Figure2. The algorithm of the RREQ checked node. Figure3. The algorithm of the data checking node.
Figure 4. The algorithm of the data checked node. Figure 5. The algorithm of the RREP checking node. Figure 6. The algorithm of the RREP checked node.
10
Figure 13. The detection rate of“Do not forward Data messages”used Figure 14. The false detection rate of“Do not forward Data messages”
the threshold-based method at different moving rate. used the threshold-based method at different moving rate.
Do Not Forward RREQ Messages
80
85
90
95
100
10 20 30 40
Number of Selfish Nodes
D
et
ec
tio
n
R
at
e(
%
)
threshold=6
threshold=8
threshold=10
Do Not Forward RREQ Messages
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
10 20 30 40
Number of Selfish Nodes
Fa
ls
e
D
et
ec
tio
n
R
at
e(
%
)
threshold=6
threshold=8
threshold=10
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：吳連文 計畫編號：98-2221-E-366-004- 
計畫名稱：行動隨意無線網路中自私節點偵測法的研究與改進 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
