operation as an example, the geometric properties, position and 
surface for robot hand grasping, and the axial directions for 
engagement on the two objects need to be properly defined. This 
project also aims to develop related technology so that robot 
operator can easily define the requested parameters in the computer-
graphics object models. 
 
 subroutines and an innovative object parameter definition 
system. Under the structure, robot operators can skip entirely 
the process of developing the object recognition codes and 
arm motion control programs. The operation concept of a 
parameter-based arm motion routine is similar to a 
mathematical subroutine in a computer code, receives input 
arguments and operates accordingly to produce output. Each 
specific parameter-based arm motion subroutine, for example 
to engage two long objects, can be developed independently 
by an expert in the world. With the subroutine, the robot 
operator needs only to define the objects for engagement and 
the parameters of engagement and the robot can immediately 
operate its two arms to autonomously perform the requested 
engagement operation on the objects. For a parameter-based 
arm operation subroutine to work, again using the above 
engagement operation as an example, the geometric 
properties, position and surface for robot hand grasping, and 
the axial directions for engagement on the two objects need to 
be properly defined. Huebner et. al. [1] proposed  a box-based 
grasp generation technique. Hsiao et.al. [2] developed a 
simple selection for grasping unknown objects which uses 3D 
sensor data for grasp selection. Tactile feedback is used for 
reactive grasping to correct the uncertainty of position or 
shape measurement. This paper also aims to develop related 
technology so that robot operator can easily define the 
requested parameters in the computer-graphics object models 
which will be introduced in chapter 3. 
II. PARAMETER BASED SUBROUTINE FOR INDUSTRIAL ROBOT 
Nowadays, the robot becomes more popular in industry 
and social life because of its characteristics. It could work 24 
hours with highly precise and stable. There are many 
researches focusing on this application. [3-6] has focused on 
how to successfully grasp a defined object. However in the 
robot application robot is not only pick or grasp an object, 
after that process, the robot has to do the specific task. To do a 
specific task those robots discussed in [3-6] need to 
re-programming. This paper is different to those discussed 
paper. This paper will integrate a specific task in one program 
function called Parameter based function. Parameter based 
for industrial robot is the program that receives the output 
data of the image processing part and the data input from an 
interactive user and commands the task for industrial robot as 
shown in Fig. 1. By using the parameter based programming, 
the robot can reproduce or duplicate the same task with 
another complicated object without re-programming. The 
data of the image processing are the location (O), the grasping 
point (A) of the objects, the location of the target task (B) or 
the position of the circle obstacle (C). The data input from an 
interactive user are illustrated by the direction of the 
engagement or other commands. 
 
 
A
B
O
Grasping point
Center point
Target point direction
Obstacle
X
Y
C
 
Fig. 1.  The data input for the parameter based program. 
 
After received the data input, by solving the inverse 
kinematic, the robot will grasp the object at A point and 
according to the direction command of the user, the robot will 
move the object to B point. On the way to approach the B 
point. The robot will automatically avoid the obstacle. The 
trajectory to move the robot to the B point and the method to 
avoid the obstacle are discussed in the next section. 
 
A. The Trajectory Planning and Avoidance the Obstacle 
1) The trajectory planning: For moving the object from A 
point to B point, the straight line trajectory is constructed as: 
 
 
 
(1) 
 
 
with x1, y1, z1 are the coordinate of the A point and x2, y2, z2 
are the coordinate of the B point and t is the constant. 
 
 2) Fuzzy avoidance obstacle: To avoid the obstacle during 
the moving from A point to B point the fuzzy control rule is 
constructed. The fuzzy control rules is one of the famous 
control algorithms with fast response and fairly good 
performance [7]. It is already presented and studied in [8], [9]. 
The fuzzy control rule in this research is constructed based on 
the relative position (epi) between the end-effector and the 
position of the obstacle as shown in Fig. 2. In this paper the 
fuzzy logic controller has two inputs, the position error (epi) 
and the change of the error (edi) and one output. The input and 
output (µ(epi), µ(edi), µ(Ku)) fuzzy membership functions 
were selected symmetrically as shown in Fig. 3 to 4. 
 
2 1 2 1
1 1 1
2 1 2 1
2 2 2
2 1 2 1
( )
( , , )
( )
( , , )
( )
x x t x x
A x y z
y y t y y
B x y z
z z t z z
= + −⎧⎫ ⎪⇒ = + −⎬ ⎨⎭ ⎪ = + −⎩
 1) Stacking 
Cube A is stacking on the cube B as shown in Fig. 8. Top 
row shows operation parameters on the 3D model and the 
bottom row shows that on the real object. The plane 
numbers are surface after decomposition in Fig. 6. Surface 
A6 is the target plane. A5 and A3 (or A2 and A4) are 
grasping plane. A1 and B6 are the contact planes. The 
robot end-effector move to the surface A6. Grasp two 
surfaces A5 and A3 which are perpendicular to surface A6. 
Move cube A to the top of surface B1 until Surface A1 
contact surface B6.  
 
 
 
 
2) Pouring 
 When robot operating pouring, the end effector would 
approach surface A as shown in Fig. 9 and move to cup C. 
Pour the liquid through the D surface and finish the 
pouring. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
3) Loose fitting 
In the loose fitting sub-routine, the robot end effector 
moves to the top of surface A as shown in Fig. 10 and grasp 
the cap at surface B. When the cap reach to the top of  the 
surface C, move down until surface C contacts with surface 
D.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK 
In this research we proposed the key technology for next 
generation service robot by operation parameters registration 
and parameter-based arm motion subroutine. Under this 
structure, service robot can perform several operations on 
objects with different appearance without the time consuming 
learning for each object. 3 sub-routines were created for next 
generation service robot. More sub-routines include dual arm 
operations will be created in the following research with more 
models built in our database. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Huebner, K., Welke, K., Przybylski, M., Vahrenkamp, N., Asfour, T., 
Kragic, D. and Dillmann, R. ,” Grasping known objects with humanoid 
robots: A box-based approach”, 2009 International Conference on 
Advanced Robotics, 2009  
[2] Hsiao, K., Chitta, S., Ciocarlie, M. and Jones, E.G., “Contact-reactive 
grasping of objects with partial shape information”, IEEE/RSJ 2010 
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems, 2010 
[3] Geoffrey. T and Lindsay. K, “Grasping Unknown Objects with a 
Humanoid Robot”, Proc. 2002 Australian Conference on Robotics and 
Automation, Auckland, 2002. 
[4] Gary. M. Bone, Andrew. L, Mark. E, ”Automated Modeling and 
Robotics Grasping of Unknown Three-Dimensional Objects” ,IEEE 
International Conference on Robotics and Automation, USA, 2008. 
[5] Benjamin. B, Stefano .C, “ IEEE-RAS International Conference on 
Humanoids Robots”, USA, 2010. 
[6] Jeannette. B, Danica. K, ”Learning grasping points with shape context”, 
Robotics and Autonomous system, 2010, pp. 362-377. 
[7] Tung, P.C and Fan, S.N, Application of fuzzy on-line self-adaptive 
controller for a contour tracking robot on unknown contours, Fuzzy 
Sets and Systems (1996), pp. 17-25. 
[8] Mei, F., Man, Z. and Nguyen, T, Fuzzy modeling and tracking control 
of nonlinear systems, Mathematical and Computer Modelling (April 
2001), pp. 759-770. 
[9] Su, Y.X., Zheng, C.H. and Duan, B.Y, Fuzzy learning tracking of a 
parallel cable manipulator, Mechatronics (July 2005), pp. 731-746. 
 
 
  
 
Surface A6 Surface A5 Surface B6 A1 to B6 Stacking 
Fig. 8.  Stacking sub-routine. Top row shows operation parameters on 
the 3D model and the bottom row shows that on the real object.
  
Surface A Surface B Surface C Surface D Pouring 
Fig. 9.  Pouring sub-routine 
   
   
Surface A Surface B Surface C Surface D Loose fitting
Fig. 10.  Loose fitting sub-routine 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林其禹 計畫編號：99-2221-E-011-095- 
計畫名稱：下世代服務型機器人快速工作定義和全自主執行技術--子計畫一：物件操作參數登錄和參
數化手臂全自主操作技術(1/3) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
