96年度國科會計畫期末成果報告                NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 019 - 067 – MY2 
 1
稀薄氣流與連續流一體化數值計算法研究 
Unified Computational Methods for Rarefied and Continuum Flow 
  
黃俊誠 
台灣海洋大學商船系 
 
 
Abstract 
A conservative discrete ordinate method based on the reduced distribution function for solving the 
model Boltzmann equations is presented. The conservative discrete ordinate method is applied to 
remove the velocity space dependency of the distribution function which renders the model 
Boltzmann equation in phase space to a set of a hyperbolic conservation law with source terms in 
physical space. The conservative properties with respect to the collision integral are kept by the 
numerical methods at the discrete level to ensure the correct solutions. Numerical examples, 
including 1D unsteady shock tube problem and supersonic flows over 2-dimensional circular 
cylinder in the broad range of the Knudsen number, are provided for the BGK model equations. The 
results show that the error in conservation does not depend on the accuracy of the space-time 
discretization, but depends only on the velocity quadrature. Furthermore, the numerical results also 
show that the proposed method leads to significant savings in computer time and memory, and is 
accurate enough to be used in supersonic rarefied gas flow computations.  
 
Keywords：model Boltzmann equation, conservative discrete ordinate method, rarefied gas flow, 
quadrature formulas. 
 
Introduction 
The aerothermal analysis of rarefied gas flows in transitional regime from near-free molecular to 
continuum flow regimes is of crucial importance for the design and development of space aircraft. It 
has long been known that the use of continuum Navier-Stokes equations is inadequate for treating 
these transitional effects and the Boltzmann based on kinetic theory of gases needs to be used. Due 
to the complexity of nonlinear integral-differential nature of the equation, nontrivial analytical 
solutions of the Boltzmann equation are rare and approximate or numerical solutions may be sought. 
The difficulties encountered in the solution of Boltzmann equation are largely associated with the 
nonlinear integral nature of the collision term. To circumvent this difficulty, statistical or relaxation 
models were often proposed as substitutions. The kinetic model equation proposed by Bhatnagar, 
Gross, and Krook (BGK) (1954) provides a more tractable way to solve comparatively complex 
rarefied gas problems routinely. In particular, the model is focused on problems of nearly continuum 
to moderate transitional rarefied gas flow. 
 
In recent years several numerical schemes relaying on the discrete ordinate method (Huang and 
Giddens 1967) for solving the BGK model Boltzmann equation have been proposed (Yang & 
Huang (1995), Mieussens (2000), Titarev (2007) ). These schemes adopt a numerical quadrature in 
velocity space to evaluate the macroscopic flow variables which appear in the collision term. The 
discrete ordinate method replaces the continuous dependency of distribution function on the 
velocity space by a set of distribution functions which are continuous function in physical space and 
time but point function in velocity space. Yang & Huang (1995) proposed an accurate numerical 
method, which exploits ideal derived from high-order schemes for conservation laws in 
computational fluid dynamics and the discrete ordinate method, and applied to one- and 
two-dimensional rarefied gas flows over a wide range of Mach and Knudsen numbers. The method, 
although capable of treating high Mach number flows, is very computationally expensive. 
96年度國科會計畫期末成果報告                NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 019 - 067 – MY2 
 3
velocity v=(v ,v ,v )x y z
r and time t , the +f is an appropriate distribution function depending on model 
selected. According to the Chapman-Enskog solution to the BGK equation, the elastic collision 
frequency is of the form μν nkT= , whereT is temperature, n is number density, k is the Boltzmann 
constant andμ is the viscosity assumed temperature dependence, ( )χμμ ∞∞ = TT . The subscript ‘∞ ’ 
states the reference condition of the temperature viscosity power law. The power χ is constant for a 
given gas. If we assume the dependence of the viscosity on the temperature as for the Chapmann- 
Cowling gas of inverse ς power law, we have ( )123 −+= ςςχ . For Maxwell molecules, 
5=ς then 1χ = , thus the collision frequency is independent of temperature. The viscosity of the 
freestream stateμ∞ is related to the freestream mean free pathλ∞ by the relation 
16
5 2mn RT
μλ π∞ ∞ ∞
=                 (2) 
In this study we consider the Bhatnagar, Gross and Krook (BGK) model, which we have f + equal to 
the local Maxwellian distribution Mf  
( )
( ) ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡−==+
RT
u
RT
nff M
2
-vexp
2
2
2/3
rr
π       (3) 
The number density n, flow velocityur , and temperature of the gas T are the first three moments of 
the distribution function 
∫∞
∞−
= vrfdn ,  ∫∞
∞−
= vv rrr fdun ,  , nTp =  
( )∫∞
∞−
−= vv
2
3 2 rrr fdunT   ( )( )∫∞
∞−
−−= vvv 2 rrrrrr fduuq     (4) 
where R is the gas constant. 
For the purpose of reduction in computing time and computer storage requirements, the reduced 
distribution functions (Chu 1965) are conventionally introduced for two dimensional problems 
( ) ∫∞∞−= zzyxyx dtyxftyxg v)v,v,v,,,(,v,v,,                             
 ( ) ∫∞∞−= zzyxzyx dtyxftyxh v)v,v,v,,,(v,v,v,, 2        (5) 
 
The Conservative Discrete Ordinate Method 
The reduce distribution function is still a function of 5 independent variables. In order to remove the 
functional dependency on the velocity space of the equations, the discrete ordinate method is 
applied. This method, which consists of replacing the integration over velocity space of the 
distribution functions by an appropriate quadrature, requires the values of the distribution function 
only at certain discrete velocites, that is ( ) ( )
( ) ( )
, , ,
, , ,
, , v , v , , ,
, , v , v , , ,
x l y m l m
x l y m l m
g x y t g x y t
h x y t h x y t
=
=       (6) 
The corresponding equations for reduced distribution functions are obtained from Eq. (1) by 
weighted integrating out the v z dependence with the weighting functions 1 and 2v z , respectively 
96年度國科會計畫期末成果報告                NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 019 - 067 – MY2 
 5
,,
,,
,1 1 ,
2 22 2
, ,, ,
0
( )( )
l m
l ml m
N N
x l mx l m
l m
y l ml m y l m
x y l m l mx y l m l m
gG
v gv G
w w
v gv G
v v g hv v G H
+
+
+
= =
+ +
⎧ ⎫⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞⎪ ⎪⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎪⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟− =⎨ ⎬⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎪⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎪+ ++ + ⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠⎩ ⎭
∑∑   (13) 
or  
( )
, ,
, ,
,1 1 ,
2 22 2 , ,4 ,
exp( )
exp( )
0
exp( )
( )1 2 exp( )
l m
l m l m
N N
x l m x l m
l m
y l ml m y l m
x y l m l mx y l m
g
v v g
w w
v gv
v v g hv v
α φ
α φ
α φ
α α φ
= =
⎧ ⎫⎛ ⎞⋅ ⎛ ⎞⎪ ⎪⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⋅⎪ ⎪⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎪⎜ ⎟− =⎜ ⎟⎨ ⎬⎜ ⎟⋅⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎪⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎪ ⎪+ +⎡ ⎤⎜ ⎟+ − ⋅ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦⎪ ⎪⎝ ⎠⎩ ⎭
∑∑
rr
rr
rr
rr
  (14) 
where αr  is the unknown vectors, and αr  is computed by solving the above nonlinear system with 
Newton iteration algorithm. The conventional expressions, Eq. (9), provide a good initial guess for 
the iteration process. Usually, it is sufficient to make one or two iterations since the Newton process 
converges very rapidly. 
 
The set of partial differential equation of discrete reduced distribution function, Eq. (xx), can be cast 
into the strong conservation law form with stiff source terms as follows: 
, , ,
,
l m l m l m
l m
Q F F
S
t
ξ η
ξ ξ
∂ ∂ ∂+ + =∂ ∂ ∂   1, , ll N= K  and 1, , mm N= K   (15) 
where 
,
,
,
1 l m
l m
l m
g
Q
hJ
⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
 , ,,
, ,
1 l m l m
l m
l m l m
U g
F
U hJ
ξ ⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
 , ,,
, ,
1 l m l m
l m
l m l m
V g
F
V hJ
η ⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
 , ,,
, ,
( )1
( )
l m l m
l m
l m l m
G g
S
H hJ
ν
ν
+
+
⎡ ⎤−= ⎢ ⎥−⎣ ⎦
 
with , v vl m x l y mU ξ ξ= +  and , v vl m x l y mV η η= + , where J is the metric Jacobian, xξ , yξ , xη  and 
yη  are metric terms. The equations are solved by a high-order accurate WENO scheme, and the 
time integration is done using the lower-upper factorization. The integrating time step is limited by 
CFL condition and also to be less than the mean collision time. Once the discrete distribution 
functions ,l mg and ,l mh are solved, one can obtain all the moment integrals using Gauss-Hermite 
quadrature or Newton-Cotes quadrature. 
 
Boundary Conditions 
To specify the interaction of the molecules with the solid surface, it is assumed that the incident 
molecules which strike the surface are assumed to be absorbed by the wall and subsequently 
re-emitted with wall temperature wT  and Maxwellian velocity distribution centered on the velocity 
of the wall wu
r , i.e. 
( )2vexp www
w w
ung
T Tπ
+ ⎡ ⎤−= −⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
r v
 and 1
2w w w
h T g+ += , if 0nv >    (16) 
where v vn n= ⋅r r , and nr  is the outward unit normal to the solid surface. The number density of the 
molecules diffusing from the surface, wn , is not a priori and may be found by applying the 
condition of zero mass flux normal to the surface at the wall, i.e. 
v v v v v v 0n w x y n x yg d d g d d
∞ ∞ ∞ ∞+ + − −
−∞ −∞ −∞ −∞+ =∫ ∫ ∫ ∫       (17) 
96年度國科會計畫期末成果報告                NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 019 - 067 – MY2 
 7
(present method) 
Conservation 
 10
-4 41 1.17×10-4 
Conservation 
 10
-4 61 1.75×10-4 
Convention 
(Yang & Huang (1995)) 10
-4 41 fail 
Convention 
 10
-4 61 1.12×10-4 
Convention 
 10
-4 81 1.48×10-4 
Convention 
 10
-4 101 1.84×10-4 
 
The second example we considered is the steady supersonic rarefied flow past a circular cylinder 
under different freestream Mach and Knudsen numbers. Firstly, we consider the monotonic gas with 
freestream Mach number M∞=1.8. The Knudsen number here is defined as Kn∞= Dλ∞ whereλ∞ is 
the freestream mean free path and D is the diameter of the circular cylinder. Five Kundsen numbers 
are computed, including Kn∞=0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0, and 10.0. A 31×61 grid system in physical space 
was used. The minimum grid space and computing domain for each case are varying with the 
Knudsen number. A 4th order equally spaced Newton-Cotes quadrature was used. The total number 
of discrete velocity points used are 13×13 points ranging from -4.5 to 4.5 with spacing 0.75 for all 
five cases. The wall temperature Tw of the cylinder is related to the freestream temperature T∞ 
through 21 ( 1) 2wT T Mγ∞ ∞= + − . Here, the ratio of specific heat is 5 / 3γ =  for monotonic gas. 
The isothermal wall boundary condition was used. The results of density contours computed by 
conservative discrete ordinate method for Kn∞=0.001, 0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 are shown in Fig. 6. The 
flow structures including the bow shock, the stagnation region, near wake, recompression shock, 
and far wake region are well captured. The effects of rarefaction on the flow structures are also 
shown. The thickening of front bow shock and no recompression shock above the near wake are 
noticeable differenced in the more rarefied case.  
The corresponding results for cases of Kn∞=0.01 and 1.0 using the conventional discrete ordinate 
method are shown in Fig. 7. In these cases, a Gauss-Hermite quadrature formula with 20×20 
velocity nodes span from -5.39 to 5.39 was used. Very agreement is found.  
 
The calculated cylinder drag coefficients for Knudsen numbers encompassing the near-free 
molecule, transitional to near continuum flow regimes are shown in Table 2. 
 
Table 2 
Discrete Ordinate 
Method Kn∞ 
total drag 
coefficients 
( CD) 
pressure drag 
coefficients 
(CDp) 
friction drag 
coefficients 
(CDf) 
0.001 1.608 1.320 0.286 
0.01 1.580 1.376 0.204 
0.1 1.850 1.470 0.380 
1.0 2.614 1.758 0.856 
Conservation 
(present method) 
10.0 3.444 2.006 1.438 
Convention 0.01 1.607 1.412 0.195 
96年度國科會計畫期末成果報告                NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 019 - 067 – MY2 
 9
 
Figure 1, Solution of the shock-tube problem by conservative discrete ordinate method with 41 velocity 
nodes and WENO3 scheme for Kn=10-3. Density and temperature profiles: symbols denote the computed 
solution and solid lines denote the Euler exact solution. 
 
Figure 2, Solution of the shock-tube problem by conservative discrete ordinate method with 41 velocity 
nodes and WENO3 scheme for Kn=10-4. Density and temperature profiles. 
 
Figure 3, Solution of the shock-tube problem by conventional (non-conservative) discrete ordinate method 
with 61 velocity nodes and WENO3 scheme for Kn=10-4. Density and temperature profiles. 
96年度國科會計畫期末成果報告                NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 019 - 067 – MY2 
 11
 
Figure 6, Supersonic rarefied flow past a circular cylinder by conservative discrete ordinate method with 13×
13 velocity nodes (M∞=1.8); (a) Kn=0.001, (b) Kn=0.01, (c) Kn=0.1, (d) Kn=1.0. (Density profiles). 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
96年度國科會計畫期末成果報告                NSC 96 - 2221 - E - 019 - 067 – MY2 
 13
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97 年 05 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：連續流與稀薄氣流一體化數值計算法研究 
計畫主持人：黃俊誠         
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-019 -067 -MY2 學門領域：航太科技 
技術/創作名稱 稀薄氣體流模擬軟體 
發明人/創作人 黃俊誠 
中文： 
稀薄氣體流模擬軟體應用分立座標法、Gauss- Hermite 積分法、Boltzmann
模型方程式。 
技術說明 英文： 
The rarefied gas simulation code solves the model Boltzmann equations, with 
discrete ordinate method, and the space-time conservative CESE scheme. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本計畫成果可推廣應用於衛星姿態控制噴嘴、真空泵浦、化學氣相沉積、
以及微機電系統等科學及工業上。在太空計畫、國防科技與產業發展等
均能有所助益。 
技術特點 
本項技術 CFD 方法解 Model Boltzmann 方程式，應用於稀薄氣體流模擬
與分析。尤其應用在近連續體流區域流，以及中、低馬赫速流場模擬時，
更能顯現其計算效率與準確度。 
推廣及運用的價值 
本軟體計算效率高，並可處理複雜的幾何外形，可應用於近連續體流至
稀薄流場模擬。 
1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成果推廣單位
（如技術移轉中心）。 
2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
第二十六屆稀薄氣體動力學國際研討會 (26th International 
Symposium on Rarefied Gas Dynamics; RGD26)，本年(2008) 7月20日
至7月25日在日本京都市京都大學舉辦。內容包含十六個大主題，分別
如下： 
1. Kinetic and Transport Theory 
2. Boltzmann and Related Equations 
3. DSMC and Related Simulations 
4. Numerical Solutions of Kinetic Equations 
5. Experimental Procedures in RGD 
6. Molecular Beams and Molecular Collisions 
7. Clusters and Aerosols 
8. Gas-Surface Interaction 
9. Space Vehicles Aerodynamics 
10. Internal Flows, Jets, and Plumes 
11. Reaction and Relaxation Processes 
12. Plasma Flows and Processing 
13. Micro/Nano Scale Flows and Devices 
14. RGD in Astrophysics and Aeronomy 
15. Molecular Dynamics Simulations 
16. Vacuum Gas Dynamics 
 
本研討會是討論稀薄氣體流與電漿流特性與其交互作用，本會議提
供了一個相當好的知識交流平台，提供與會各學科，包括數學、物理、
化學、流體動力學、太空力學等研究學者交換最新的基礎研究或應用研
究成果。各領域的主要學者共同討論，對於稀薄氣體動力學未來的研究
有很大的助益。 
z Kazuo Aoki： 「Fluid Dynamics for Gaseous Mixtures Derived 
from Kinetic Theory」 
z Shih-Hsien Yu ：「Maxwell Boundary Condition for Boltzmann 
Equation」 
z Taku Ohwada, and Pietro Asinari：「On the Essential Role 
of Kinetic Theory in theNumerical Methods for Fluiddynamic 
Equations」 
 
傳統上，稀薄氣體動力學相關應用研究在於真空技術與太空飛行
器，近年由於計算力學技術影相當成熟，應用稀薄氣體動力學與計算力
學於各領域的研究相當多，本次會議有多篇的論文發表，例如 
z RGD in Astrophysics and Aeronomy：Kinetics of Suprathermal 
Atoms and Molecules in the Rarefied Planetary Atmospheres 
z Space Vehicles Aerodynamics：Thrust Characteristics of 
Magnetic Sail Spacecraft Using Superconducting Coils 
z Plasma Flows and Processing ： Experimental and 
Computational Investigation of an RF Plasma 
Micro-Thruster 
z Micro/Nano Scale Flows and Devices：Application Oriented 
Research of MEMS 
z Plasma Flows and Processing 
z Space Vehicles Aerodynamics ： Laboratory Facility for 
Simulating Solar Wind Sails 
 
本次所投稿之論文雖然沒有以口頭形式發表，但應會議邀請以海報
的形式呈現研究成果，海報尺寸為 A0 大小(約 80cmX120cm)，會議全成
展示，並且於星期二(Tuesday (July 22) Poster session (17:40-19:00))
為討論交流晚會。實際展示的時間更長，在休息時間也陸陸續續有人參
Numerical Simulation of Rarefied Gas Flow Past an
Impulsively Started Cylinder
J. C. Huang∗ and J. P. Yu†
∗Department of Merchant Marine, National Taiwan Ocean University, Keelung, TAIWAN
†Department of Information Management, Ming Chuan University, Taipei, TAIWAN
Abstract. A systematic numerical study of a rarefied gas flow past an impulsively started circular cylinder is performed over a
wide range of the Knudsen number. The formulation is based on the model Boltzmann equation with Bhatnagar-Gross-Krook
(BGK) and Shakov’s collision model. The integro-differential equation is solved numerically by implementing the discrete
ordinate method and the high resolution conservative scheme. A detailed investigation of the rarefaction effects on the flow
pattern and quantities is presented over the range of Knudsen number from nearly continuum to transition regime. Numerical
results of flow characteristics, including the instantaneous streamlines, the closed wake length, velocity distributions along
symmetry axis and the slip velocity on surface, are presented. The rarefied gas effect on the vortex flow pattern and quantities
is discussed. The present method does not suffer from the statistical noise that is common in particle-based methods, and it
requires a smaller amount of computational effort. It is also demonstrated that this approach is able to provide accurate direct
numerical simulations of rarefied gas flow.
Keywords: Rarefied gas dynamics, Model Boltzmann equation, Discrete ordinate method, High resolution conservative scheme, WENO
scheme, Gauss-Hermite quadrature
PACS: 47.45.-n
INTRODUCTION
The rarefied gas flow in transitional regime between continuum regime and free-molecule regime involved in micro-
electrical-mechanical devices, vacuum systems, and high altitude aerodynamics is difficult to treat either experimen-
tally or theoretically. When the Knudsen number of this flow, which is defined as the ratio of the mean free path to
the characteristic length, is not negligibly small, the mathematic model for the flow is the Boltzmann equation. The
conventional computational fluid dynamics methods that are based on continuum assumptions may not be appropriate,
and a method based on kinetic gas theory is required to describe the flow accurately. The capability to accurately pre-
dict the rarefied gas flows over the complete spectrum of flow regimes is very important and desirable for engineering
application.
The most commonly and well known numerical method for studying the rarefied gas flow is the direct simulation
Monte Carlo (DSMC) method. Applications of DSMC method to a wide variety of rarefied gas flow problems have
been illustrated [1]. However, for low Mach number or nearly continuum flow, it is difficult to deduce reliable results
because the numerical results are amenable to statistical fluctuations. Instead, the difficulties in direct solving the
Boltzmann equation are treating the nonlinear collision term. Although Recently Kolobov and Aristov proposed the
direct numerical solution (DNS) of Boltzmann equation and a unified solver for rarefied and continuum flows [2].
But, it consumes computing time. Thus, instead of solving the full Boltzmann equation, one solves the kinetic model
Boltzmann equation to develop a more economic and efficient way of studying rarefied gas flow.
Time-dependent flow around an impulsively started circular cylinder is known as one of the classical prototypes
of unsteady hydrodynamics. It is clarified that in the hydrodynamic limit, this flow problem is a well known typical
benchmark problem for testing and verifying continuum solvers and has been thoroughly studied with numerical
methods, see [3, 4] and their references. Coutanceau and Bouard [5, 6] performed detailed experimental investigations
from low to high Reynolds numbers. The velocity distributions along the symmetry axis behind the cylinder, the time
evolution of the wake eddy sizes were measured. Also, the formation and evolution of secondary flow were observed.
However, the research work for the same flow pattern in transition and slip flow regimes, as far as the authors are aware
of, is very limited.
In the present work, unsteady rarefied gas flow past an impulsively started two-dimensional cylinder is simulated by
solving the nonlinear model Boltzmann equations, including BGK and Shakov’s model, over a wide range of Knudsen
numbers. Based on Yang and Huang [7] and the procedures of entropy minimization principle [8], a robust, accurate
FIGURE 1. Instantaneous streamline at
Kn = 2.05×10−3 (Re = 200) with Shakov model.
(a) t = 0.5, (b) t = 1.5, and (c) t = 2.5.
FIGURE 2. Instantaneous streamline at
Kn = 7.50×10−4 (Re = 550). (a) with Shakov
model, t = 2.5, (b) experiment by [6], t = 2.5, and
(c) Shakov model, t = 4.66.
FIGURE 3. Evolution with time of closed wake
length at Kn = 2.05×10−3 (Re = 200).
FIGURE 4. Evolution with time of closed wake
length at Kn = 7.50×10−4 (Re = 550).
The model Boltzmann equation in phase space is then reduced to a set of hyperbolic partial differential equations
with source term in physical space. The equations are solved by a high-order accurate WENO scheme, and the time
integration is done using a multistage Runge-Kutta method. The integrating time step is limited by CFL condition and
also to be less than the mean collision time. Once the discrete distribution functions gl,m and hl,m are solved, one can
obtain all the moment integrals using Gauss-Hermite quadrature.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
Early stages of unsteady rarefied gas flows around an impulsively started circular cylinder at Knudsen numbers of
2.05× 10−2 , 6.87× 10−3, 2.05× 10−3 and 7.50× 10−4 are analysed numerically. The corresponding Reynolds
numbers, based on the upstream velocity U0 and the diameter of the cylinder D, are 20, 60, 200 and 550, respectively.
These values are same as the experimental conditions in [5, 6]. The experiments are performed with a liquid of
vaseline oil or water-glycerine mixtures, and with a very low flow velocity. Although the properties of the working
fluid and velocity are different between experiment and computation, the comparison is reasonable by considering
FIGURE 9. Evolution with time of closed wake
length at Kn = 6.87×10−3 (Re = 60).
FIGURE 10. Comparison of x-velocity distribution
on the flow axis behind the cylinder at
Kn = 6.87×10−3.
FIGURE 11. Slip velocity distribution at the
cylinder surface at Kn = 2.05×10−3 and
Kn = 7.5×10−4 at t = 3 with BGK (dash line) and
Shakov (solid line) model. Dash line
FIGURE 12. Slip velocity distribution at the
cylinder surface at Kn = 2.05×10−2 and
Kn = 6.87×10−3 at t = 3 with BGK (dash line) and
Shakov (solid line) model.
at time near t = 4.3 later than the experimental observation, see Figure 2(c). This flow structure is the so-called α-
phenomena observed by [6].
Figures 3 and 4 show the time evolution of nondimensional closed wake length L/D at Reynolds numbers of 200
and 550. The difference between the results of BGK and Shakov model is not apparent. The computational results are
in good agreement with the experiment data in [6]. It shows that the rarefied gas effect apparently has little influence
to the closed wake length at these two Knudsen numbers. Figures 5 and 6 show the velocity ux along the symmetry
axes behind the cylinder at Kn = 2.05× 10−3 and 7.50× 10−4, respectively. The numerical results by using Navier-
Stokes model is implemented for perfect gas flow with the same grid system under the same free stream conditions,
Mach number 0.25, Reynolds number 200 and 550, and also using the same WENO scheme. There are significant
discrepancy between the numerical results and the experimental data. It is suspected that the difference is due to the
rarefied gas effects. The results show that the rarefied gas effect reduces the flow velocity in closed wake zone, and
thus decrease the strength of the vortex.
For the cases of Kn= 2.05×10−2 and 6.87×10−3, the flows are in transitional flow regime, the rarefied gas effect is
more significant than the previous cases. Figure 7 gives the time evolution of instantaneous streamlines using Shakov
model with Maxwell gas at Kn = 2.05× 10−2 (Re = 20). When t = 0.5, there are no vortex appeared in the flow. A
