 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
 
新型 DNA 生物高分子材料開發及光電元件上的應用(III) 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：99-2221-E-007-083- 
執行期間：2010 年 08 月 01 日至 2011 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：洪毓玨 
共同主持人：傅建中 
計畫參與人員： 林庭宇、游雅涵、許惟廷、邱逸文 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立清華大學光電研究所 
 
中   華   民   國 2011  年  10   月   26   日 
 2
一、前言 
In recent years, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) biopolymers have been extensively investigated 
and have demonstrated to exhibit many promising features for optoelectronic applications. Many 
devices, including organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs), solar cells, and organic field effect 
transistors (OFETs), were fabricated based on DNA biopolymers in which enhanced efficiency was 
demonstrated. In this report, we presented organic light-emitting device based on DNA biopolymer 
with enhanced efficiency and organic memory utilizing DNA’s affinity for metals. 
 
二、研究目的與文獻探討 
To achieve high-performance organic light-emitting devices (OLEDs), several device 
considerations, including the choice of materials as well as device structure, are crucial towards 
optimized design of highly efficient luminescence devices for display and lighting applications. 
Recently, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) has drawn great attention for its potential in applications of 
optoelectronic devices [1,2]. It has been previously reported that deoxyribonucleic acid 
(DNA)-aliphatic surfactant complex, e.g. DNA-cetyltrimethylammonium complex (DNA-CTMA), 
was introduced as an efficient material for electron blocking in OLEDs [3]. Owing to the high 
resistivity of DNA-aliphatic surfactant complex, however, enhanced luminance was paid at the 
expense of a high driving voltage while incorporating such dielectric layer in OLED structures. We 
utilized aromatic surfactant to synthesize a new DNA biopolymer, and studied its application in 
OLEDs. DNA biopolymers based on aromatic surfactants have been demonstrated to exhibit lower 
resistivity as opposed to aliphatic halide surfactants [4], which is an advantageous feature for 
reducing the operation voltage. To further enhance the efficiency of devices, the optimization of 
concentration of DNA biopolymer was performed. The fabrication procedures and device 
performance were provided in the following sections. 
Meanwhile, DNA is also well-known as a good template for metal nanoparticle synthesis due to 
its affinity with metallic ions [5]. Many nanoparticle synthesis techniques implemented in DNA have 
been developed in the field of biology and nanotechnology for sensing and surface enhanced Raman 
spectroscopy (SERS) [6]. The affinity with metallic ions along with other distinguished features 
makes DNA biopolymers a promising material in optoelectronic applications. Utilizing metallic 
affinity of DNA biopolymers, we report a memory device based on a single layer configuration 
consisting of photoinduced nanoparticles-DNA nanocomposite. Such device can be employed as a 
write-once read-many-times (WORM) memory device. WORM memory devices are desirable for 
ultralow-cost permanent storage of digital images, eliminating the need for slow, bulky and 
expensive mechanical drives used in conventional magnetic memory. The photochemical synthesis 
of metal nanoparticles used in this study offers the possibility of controlling the rate of nanoparticles 
formation as well as morphology control over size and shape [7]. In the following sections, the 
fabrication details of the memory device were presented and characterizations were carried out to 
evaluate the device performance. 
 4
interface. 
 
Fig. 1 J-V/L-V of DNA-BTMA based and reference devices (inset: J-V curves with current density in log 
scale). 
The electroluminescence (EL) curves of all devices operated at 12V were shown in Fig. 2. The 
EL curves of devices with DNA-aromatic surfactant showed that excitons were confined in the 
emitting layer, since emission wavelength maintained within the luminous spectral range of NPB. On 
the contrary, the emission wavelength of the reference device showed a red shift to green at 507 nm, 
which indicated that the recombination zone had shifted to Alq3 layer under high operating voltage. 
Next, we fabricated DNA-BTMA based devices by various concentrations, i.e. 0.5wt% and 1wt%. 
The current efficiency-voltage and luminous efficacy-voltage curves were depicted in Fig.3. As 
shown in Fig. 3, it indicates, though not pronounced, that an optimal concentration of DNA-VBTMA 
was around 1wt%. An enhancement of 16% was achieved when comparing the current efficiency of 
device with DNA-BTMA to that without DNA layer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DNA-based organic memory characterization: the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of the 
 
Fig. 2 EL curves of (dash line) DNA-BTMA, 
and (solid line) reference devices operated at 
12V. 
Fig. 3 Current efficiency-voltage and 
luminous efficacy-V curves of DNA-BTMA 
based and reference devices. 
 6
   Fig. 5(a) and (b) shows the I–V characteristics for Off and On-states of the device with 
continuous voltage sweeps for five times. While the sweep voltage was below 2.5 V, the device 
stayed in the Off-state, and the current can be measured at low voltages, as long as the transition has 
not occurred. While the sweep voltage was above 2.5 V, the device switched to On-state, and a 
higher current can be monitored. After the current transition of the first voltage sweep, the device 
stayed in the On-state for the remaining voltage sweep cycles. The device exhibited a very stable I–V 
characteristic for Off and On-states. Organic materials consisting of nanoparticle/polymer that 
exhibit similar electrical switching behaviors were also reported in several systems, including Au 
nanoparticles in PS and in polyaniline [9]. Nevertheless, this photoinduced technique coupled with 
DNA-templated nanoparticle synthesis provides a promising and facile method for the preparation of 
metal nanoparticle in the application of optical storage and memory devices.  
0 1 2 3 4
10-5
10-4
10-3
10-2
10-1
 
 
C
ur
re
nt
 (A
)
Voltage (V)
 scan1
 scan2
 scan3
 scan4
 scan5
          
0 1 2 3 4
10-5
10-4
10-3
10-2
10-1
 
 
C
ur
re
nt
 (A
)
Voltage (V)
 scan1
 scan2
 scan3
 scan4
 scan5
  
(a)               (b) 
Fig. 5 The I–V characteristics with continuous voltage sweep cycle (a) for the Off-state of the device (b) for 
the On-state of the device. 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
We demonstrated high luminance of blue OLED with low turn-on voltage when using DNA 
complex modified by aromatic surfactant. Maximum luminance of 11139 cd/m2 at 13.5V for 
DNA-BTMA-based OLED was exhibited and more than 16% improvement in current efficiency 
compared to device without DNA layer was obtained. We have also demonstrated a photoinduced 
technique that combines DNA’s affinity for metals for the fabrication of nanoparticles/DNA 
biopolymer nanocomposite. It was implemented in a single-layer configuration that exhibited 
electrical switching effect with a ratio of 103 between On/Off states. The device showed stable I–V 
characteristics and is potential for WORM application. Our work expands the horizon of DNA 
biopolymer in optoelectronic implementation and stimulates multidisciplinary effort towards DNA 
photonics. 
 
六、參考文獻 
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心
得報告 
             
Summary 
SPIE photonics west is one of the world leading events in the optoelectronics 
community. This year the conference was held on Jan 22-27 in Moscone Center, 
San Francisco, California, USA. The agenda covered a broad-scope of topics 
including five research fields that are divided into five sub-conferences – BIOS, 
LASE, MOEMS-MEMS, OPTO, and GREEN PHOTONICS. It is noticed that 
GREEN PHOTONICS was included for the first time in the conference, 
representing a general interest and concern regarding the issues of green 
photonics related topics, such as solid-state lighting, laser-assisted manufacturing 
and micro/nano fabrication, and renewable energy generation. 
Within the broad-scope of conference agenda, we are especially interested in 
the latest progress in organic optoelectronics and DNA photonics. We presented 
our work entitled “Preparation and characterization of DNA-aromatic surfactant 
complexes for optoelectronic applications” in conference 7935 session 2: 
計畫編
號 NSC 99-2221-E-007-083 
計畫名
稱 新型 DNA 生物高分子材料開發及光電元件上的應用(III) 
出國人
員姓名 洪毓玨 
服務機
構及職
稱 
清華大學光電所/助理教授 
會議時
間 
2011 年 1 月 22 
日至 
2011 年 1 月 27 
日 
會議地
點 
The Moscone Center, San 
Francisco, California, USA 
會議名
稱 
(中文) 美國西岸光電年會 
(英文) SPIE Photonics West 2011 
發表論
文題目 
Preparation and characterization of DNA-aromatic surfactant 
complexes for optoelectronic applications 
 3
 
 
After the conference, I had a chance to meet with the pioneer of the field of 
DNA photonics, James Grote. J. Grote initiated DNA photonics a few years ago 
and has funded several research projects related to DNA for photonics applications. 
We had dinner together with other researchers in this field, such as Prof. Audraud 
from Ecole Normales Superieure de Lyon in France, Prof. Rau from University 
Politehnica of Bucharest in Romania, and researchers from Korea. We shared many 
thoughts and ideas during dinner and I got to know the players in this field in this 
occasion.  
 To sum, this is indeed a great opportunity to attend this conference and had the 
chance to meet the researchers worldwide working on DNA photonics. I truly benefit 
from this experience and was inspired from several informative talks. Our DNA 
photonics network can be established by actively participating these events and meet 
with people for exchanging ideas and updating the latest development. It is certainly 
one important and efficient route to access the latest advances and meet researchers 
with similar interests at the first place.   
 
Dear Dr. Yu-Chueh Hung,
Congratulations! The chairs for the upcoming "Organic Photonic Materials and Devices XIII" conference have accepted
your paper, "Preparation and characterization of DNA-aromatic surfactant complexes for optoelectronic applications," as
a Oral presentation to be presented 24 Jan 2011. This conference is part of OPTO which will be held 22-27 January 2011
in San Francisco, California United States.
PLEASE SAVE OR PRINT THIS MESSAGE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE AS IT PROVIDES IMPORTANT DETAILS FOR
THIS EVENT.
PAPER NUMBER: 7935-13
Please include your SPIE Paper Number in the subject line of all Email correspondence.
PAPER TITLE: Preparation and characterization of DNA-aromatic surfactant complexes for optoelectronic applications
If you have changes to your title, abstract, or list of authors for the conference program, please send changes
directly to me, mattn@spie.org by 15 November 2010. Changes submitted with your manuscript will not
automatically be reflected in the conference program.
PREPARE YOUR PRESENTATION AND PROCEEDINGS MANUSCRIPT: http://spie.org/x27472.xml
PRESENTATION DATE: 24 Jan 2011
If you are presenting more than one paper, please check the program online to see if the sessions overlap. If
your presentations are at risk of overlapping, please notify me immediately so that we can adjust the program
(Email: mattn@spie.org)
If you are unable to attend and make your presentation, please look for an alternate speaker before canceling.
Cancellation dates and reasons are noted in your permanent record. Last-minute cancellations and no-show
authors may risk not being accepted to present at future SPIE events. If you or a colleague are unable to make
your presentation, please notify me no later than 15 November 2010 so we can remove the presentation from the
final program.
Your presentation must be made as scheduled in order to have your manuscript published in the conference
Proceedings.
PRESENTATION TYPE: Oral
The decision of oral or poster presentation is made by the conference chair(s).
All authors (oral, poster, keynote, and invited) are expected to submit a manuscript containing at least 6 pages.
Your work is extremely important and valuable to your fellow researchers, so we look forward to including it in
this year's publications.
See http://spie.org/x27472.xml for presentation guidelines
Poster presenters will also be sent a separate message asking them to reserve a poster board by 8 November
2010.
MANUSCRIPT DUE DATE: 17 Dec 2010
The manuscript submission site at http://myspie.org will open 5 weeks prior to the deadline.
The Proceedings volume for this conference will be published shortly after the meeting. Manuscripts will be
available on the SPIE Digital Library within 2-4 weeks of the meeting, published in the printed Proceedings
volume within 4-6 weeks of the meeting, and published on the CD-ROM 6-8 weeks after the meeting.
VIEW THE CURRENT PROGRAM: http://spie.org/opto
Navigate to the current online program via the symposium links on the left; the PDF of the advance program will
NOT be updated with any changes.
The online program contains the most up-to-date information, including the conference program and additional
conference-related activities. The program is subject to change at any time before or during the conference.
REQUEST AN INVITATION LETTER FOR VISA APPLICATION: http://spie.org/USvisa-info
Only authors and coauthors listed on a paper may request invitation letters.
Because of the number of visa applications and the need for thorough security reviews, the visa application
process can take several months. It is strongly encouraged travelers to apply for their visas as early as possible
(at least 3 to 4 months before the visa is needed).
REGISTER FOR THE CONFERENCE: http://spie.org/x14624.xml
Pre-register for the meeting by 7 January 2011, as fees increase by US$100 after this date.
SPIE Paper Number 7935-13 Acceptance and Manuscript Information
2／3
 
 
 
 
Preparation and characterization of DNA-aromatic surfactant 
complexes for optoelectronic applications 
 
Ting-Yu Lin, Chia-Yun Chang, Chien-Hsiang Lien, Yi-Wen Chiu, Wei-Ting Hsu,  
Che-Hsuan Su, Yu-Sheng Wang, and Yu-Chueh Hung* 
Institute of Photonics Technologies, National Tsing Hua University, No. 101, Section 2, Kuang-Fu 
Road, Hsinchu, Taiwan 30013            
ABSTRACT   
DNA biopolymer has emerging as a promising material in photonic applications. In this paper, we present the 
preparation and characterization of a series of DNA-surfactant complexes based on aromatic surfactants, including 
vinylbenzyltrimethylammonium chloride, benzyltrimethylammonium chloride, and phenyltrimethylammonium chloride. 
Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and UV-VIS spectroscopy were used to characterize the presence of 
specific chemical groups in the materials. These synthesized DNA complexes show high transparency from 400nm to 
1100nm. These materials can be spin casted into thin films from nm to um and the morphology was examined by SEM 
and AFM. Thermal property was characterized by thermal gravimetric analysis. Conductivity was examined to 
investigate the effect of aromatic surfactants on the electrical properties of DNA complexes. In addition, the 
photoluminescence and lasing properties for DNA-aromatic surfactants with rhodamine dyes were investigated to study 
the amplified spontaneous emission where the ASE emission wavelength, lasing threshold, and gain were presented and 
discussed. The results were compared with DNA complex with single chain aliphatic surfactant complex (DNA-
cetyltrimethylammonium chloride). 
 
Keywords: biopolymer, conductivity, amplified spontaneous emission 
 
1. INTRODUCTION  
Over the last few years, much research attention has been paid to use deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) as one kind of 
biopolymer for numerous applications in optoelectronic devices. DNA has several unique features and has been 
demonstrated its promise in organic light emitting devices (OLED)1-2, organic field effect transistor (OFET)3,4, and 
organic laser5,6. In order to make DNA soluble in organic solvents for device fabrication, extra procedures are required to 
modify the DNA molecules. A common approach is to bind the DNA phosphate backbone with surfactants to form 
DNA-surfactant complex. Device implementation based on DNA-surfactant complex up to date is mainly focused on 
single chain aliphatic surfactants, such as cetyltrimethylammonium chloride (CTMA). Due to the intrinsic property of 
aliphatic chain in CTMA, however, these DNA complexes normally possess poor conductivity and may limit the 
implementation horizon of DNA biopolymer.  
In this study, we utilized different type of surfactants, i.e. surfactants with aromatic rings including 
vinylbenzyltrimethylammonium chloride (VBTMA), benzyltrimethylammonium chloride (BTMA) and PTMA 
(phenyltrimethylammonium), for synthesizing novel DNA complexes. A series of experiments were carried out to 
investigate the effect of aromatic surfactant on the optical and electrical properties of DNA complexes. In addition, the 
photoluminescence and lasing properties for DNA-aromatic surfactants with rhodamine dyes were investigated to study 
the amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) where the ASE emission wavelength, lasing threshold, and gain were 
presented and discussed in the following sections.   
 
 
 
*Email: ychung@ee.nthu.edu.tw 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：洪毓玨 計畫編號：99-2221-E-007-083- 
計畫名稱：新型 DNA 生物高分子材料開發及光電元件上的應用(III) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
