 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-194-059 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
 
主持人：劉興民 國立中正大學資訊工程學系 damon@computer.org 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：鄭靜怡、李世昱、蔡景昇、蔡俊宏、劉記顯、陳立婷 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
智慧型服裝諮詢師是一套如同個人服裝造
型師一般的智慧型服裝搭配系統，用以幫
助普羅大眾從個人的衣櫥當中選擇正確的
服裝以出席特殊場合並展現出理想的形
象。好的服裝搭配除了對流行趨勢的認知
之外，尚須配合色彩心理學、服飾心理學、
社會學等多重領域的知識才能創造出一個
令人稱讚的外在形象。然而，電腦雖然可
以高速處理大量的運算，但是卻無法主動
具備有如人腦一般認知事物的能力。因
此，為了使本系統具備有當下台灣流行時
尚的基本知識，本系統應用認知科學領域
中類別學習的類神經網路模式，並且以針
對台灣年輕女孩所作的「衣服與相對應的
形象類型」問卷調查結果作為本系統的訓
練範例群，使其成為一個具備衣服類型與
搭配知識的核心。 
另一方面，為了因應普羅大眾使用，本
系統簡化了輸入的步驟，使用者只要輸入
個人衣服數位影像，系統便會自動偵測以
擷取必要的資訊，包括特徵點、色調分佈
以及輪廓線等外在樣貌。因此，本系統應
用了多種電腦圖學理論及技術，像是雜訊
移除、邊緣偵測以及色彩直方圖（color 
histogram）等數位影像處理技術用以從衣
服圖片上擷取衣服相關資訊並儲存於衣服
資料庫中。除此之外，本系統更應用了衣
料模擬技術以及三維立體空間用以展示最
後搭配的成果。當使用者為了挑選適當的
衣服去出席一個特定場合而產生困擾時，
使用者只要將出席場合、氣候及欲表現的
外在形象作為諮詢條件輸入本系統，系統
內部的搭配核心將會根據先前訓練而得的
類型搭配規則至使用者個人數位衣櫥中尋
找合適的服裝搭配，並以三維立體成像即
時展示，使用者即可從中挑選出一套滿意
度最高的服裝搭配，並且回饋給系統，系
統便會根據使用者的個人選擇自動更新搭
配因子的各項權重，在下次使用本系統的
同時，系統的搭配規則即可表現出更高的
個人化特質。 
 
關鍵詞：U 化 (ubiquity) 、數位生活、智
慧衣櫥、服裝搭配、知識整合、專家系統 
 
Abstract 
Intelligent Dressing Consultant is an 
expert system of clothing match which 
functions as a personal fashion editor to help 
women choose correct attire for attending a 
specific occasion using all of what have 
already been in their closets. Many different 
computer theories and techniques are 
gathered in the project. Digital image 
processing techniques, such as noise removal, 
edge detection and color histogram, are 
employed at pre-processing stage to obtain 
the essential data of garments and to build a 
personal digital wardrobe. A SUSTAIN 
(Supervised and Unsupervised Stratified 
Adaptive Incremental Network) based model 
 4
As naive social psychologists, receivers 
try to make sense of the world around them, 
including the people with whom they interact. 
To do so, perceivers develop cognitive 
structures. These structures are part of a 
network of thought that enables perceivers to 
respond to stimuli such as appearance [4]. 
Perceivers tend to assume that the attributes 
or qualities assigned to others on the basis of 
appearance are interrelated. In other words, 
there is a tendency to “cluster” or group 
person-attributes or person-qualities. 
Accordingly, receivers implicitly assume that 
if one attribute in the cluster is assigned to a 
sender, it is likely that other attributes in that 
cluster will also be assigned [5]. As the 
description presented by Kruschke on 2004, 
category learning is critically important 
because it underlies essentially all cognitive 
activities, yet it is very difficult because 
learned categories must generalize 
appropriately, learning must occur quickly, 
and new learning must not overwrite 
previous knowledge. 
Moreover, categorization occurs on 
different dimensions and at different levels of 
abstraction simultaneously. Researchers in 
cognition science have addressed plenty of 
models for category learning. The best 
known exemplar-based model is undoubtedly 
the Generalized Context Model [6] and 
Kruschke’s ALCOVE (Attention Learning 
Covering network).  
ALCOVE model is one of those 
exemplar based approaches, designed to 
describe how people, relying on similarity, 
learn to classify items into different 
categories [7]. It stores training instance in 
memory and classify stimulus items by 
computing the similarity of the current item 
to every previous exemplar. The original 
ALCOVE can represent continuous and 
binary-valued dimensions, but not 
nominally-valued dimensions. As shown in 
[8], an ALCOVE based model is explored to 
classify the major color of a garment. It is 
also the model explored to develop the 
impression categorization model in other 
relevant work [9]. However, exemplar 
models expand their internal representations 
with every training example, so large amount 
of training examples are needed for learning 
the behaviour of styling cognition. Moreover, 
later versions introduce the ability to 
represent features are proposed in [10]. 
 SUSTAIN (Supervised and 
Unsupervised STratified Adaptive 
Incremental Network) is another selection of 
category learning models [11]. This model 
applies both supervised and unsupervised 
learning mechanism to forming categories. 
SUSTAIN initially assumes a simple 
category structure. If simple solutions prove 
inadequate and SUSTAIN is confronted with 
a surprising event (e.g., it is told that a bat is 
a mammal instead of a bird), SUSTAIN 
recruits an additional cluster to represent the 
surprising event. Compared to ALCOVE, 
SUSTAIN is more economical in its storage 
and only stores an examples as a separate 
cluster when a prediction error occurs. The 
key contribution of SUSTAIN is to 
successfully extend models of category 
learning to a number of paradigms where 
other models either have not been applied or 
lead to incorrect predictions. Hence, 
SUSTAIN model is explored for impression 
learning in the research.  
 
Cloth Modeling and Simulation 
Modeling clothing and textiles has 
become a major topic in computer graphics 
research. Along the evolution of cloth 
simulation techniques, the focus was 
primarily aimed to address realism through 
the accurate reproduction of the mechanical 
features of fabric materials. The early models, 
developed a decade ago, had to accommodate 
very limited computational power and 
display device, therefore these were 
geometrical models that were only meant to 
reproduce the geometrical features of 
deforming cloth [12]. A detailed survey on 
cloth modeling techniques can be found in 
the paper by Ng and Grimsadale [13]. 
Significant work has been done on modeling 
and cloth simulation in the recent decades 
[14]. Further, a strong impulse comes from 
clothing and fabric furniture industries, 
where CAD tools are increasingly demanded 
to assist the whole cloth design process. 
Techniques of cloth simulation mostly 
applied to apparel industry help fashion 
designer to sew CAD two-dimensional cloth 
different combinations of various types of 
garments. However, the system is more like 
an innovative design schema to improve the 
inspiration to the designer. And their wearing 
style indicated is classified as “Modern”, 
“Elegant”, “Casual”, and “Sporty”, seems 
insufficient for describing feelings of 
garments people worn with in everyday life. 
Hence, we proposed a sensational cognition 
model for presenting impression of one 
individual garment. And the learning and 
knowledge acquisition are done by a 
supervised and unsupervised stratified 
adaptive incremental network 
 
Figure 2: System architecture flow chart. 
 
四、研究方法 
 
System Architecture 
Intelligent Dressing Consultant is an 
integral application of visual-based fashion 
knowledge extraction and representation, 
cognitive science and computer technologies 
which functions as a personal fashion 
consultant to provide recommendations for 
dressing. The word ‘personal’ is taking the 
meanings of ‘your own private assistant’ and 
‘take clothes out from your own closet’. Four 
major tasks are going to be achieved: (A) 
retrieving knowledge and dressing principles 
from fashion; (B) building personal digital 
wardrobe; (C) reconstructing human body 
with personal size chart; and (D) cloth 
modeling and simulation. Figure 2 indicates 
the architecture of the proposed system. The 
process is basically divided into offline stage 
and run-time stage. During offline stage, we 
work with fashion stylists to extract 
impression keywords and fashion-matching 
rules for categorizing garments using 
questionnaire and Neural Network models. 
Garment classification model and dressing 
principles can be then gained and stored in 
the fashion knowledge base. In addition, the 
system is a kind of personal assistant, 
providing user-centric services. Thus, the 
second important component of the project is 
building a digital personal wardrobe. To this 
end, users need to take two photos for each 
flat garment (with the same camera angle and 
environment), one from the front and the 
other from the back, as the input information 
for detecting physical characteristics, such as 
color distribution and shape, at offline stage. 
Those physical characteristics of garments 
are then transformed to several sensations 
according to membership functions. In 
addition to physical characteristics and 
sensations, every garment item has cognitive 
attributes, say, impression adjectives. On the 
other hand, a virtual human sized as the user 
is indeed needed in the 3D show room since 
the project is intended to be personalized. 
Therefore, user has to input her own body 
measurements to the system at preprocessing 
stage. All measured values for 3D human 
model needed for the construction are shown 
in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3: Body measurement [16]. 
 
After personal digital wardrobe has 
been built, the user can query for fashion 
match suggestions by simply submitting 
several key conditions to the system, such as 
occasions and appearance images. 
Matchmaker then follows dressing rules 
extracted from stylists to search match 
garments within personal wardrobe. The 
resulting garment pairs will be put on the 
 6
pixels within each grid cell of the 
black-white edged image. The 
corresponding RGB value of the color 
image is also recorded while traversing 
those pixels. 
2. If the number of the grid cell with few 
turning points is higher than a threshold, 
the garment is not loud at all. 
3. A color counting process within each grid 
cell has to be processed when statement 
in step 2 is false since the turning point 
on the garment image may be occurred 
by creases. The number of different 
colors in each cell and which cell with 
many different colors are two estimations 
for determining the degree of loudness of 
the garment. 
 
 
Figure 4: Input garment image and the 
black-white edge image. Those green blocks 
is the grid set for recording locality of color 
changing. 
 
Table 1: A table of feature points with 
corresponded body segment. The defined 
correspondence between feature points and 
body segment is shown. 
Feature Point Body Segment 
Neck (l,r) Neck 
Neck front Neck 
Neck back Neck 
Biceps (l,r) Upper arm 
Elbow (l,r) Upper and lower arm 
Wrist (l,r) Lower arm, hands 
Waist girth point Lower torso 
Hip (l,r) Lower torso 
Nipple (l,r) Upper torso 
Ankle inseam (l,r) Lower leg, feet 
Knee (l,r) Lower and upper leg, 
lower torso 
 8
 
C. Garment shape 
Garments are basically divided into 
three groups: top, trouser, and skirt. There 
are different elements within each group for 
determining the garment outline. The 
boundary of a 2D garment pattern is 
represented as a directional closed loop. Thus, 
we defined several feature points on a 
garment silhouette for recording garment 
shape and the use of reconstructing garment 
in 3D show room. Table 1 is the definition 
feature points in the research. Hence, feature 
points have to be firstly extracted out from 
the garment image.  
Before detecting feature points, grey 
scale and Sobel 3×3 filter were applied to the 
garment image to detect edges. And the steps 
of detecting feature points are as below: 
1. Find the top-right corner point of the 
silhouette as the first feature point. 
2. Tracking along silhouette anticlockwise, 
pick a point as a sample point at 3-point 
intervals.  
3. Three sample points form an angle. We 
calculate cosine value of the angle for 
determining whether the point in 
between is a candidate of feature points. 
If the distance between two neighbor 
points is less than threshold, the mid 
point will be the proper feature point.  
4. Feature points segment silhouette.  The 
track points of each segment are also 
recorded in the database for judgment. 
Chain Code, including the direction and 
length, is then applied to calculate the 
relation between each two neighbouring 
feature points and to recognize the shape.  
Eight directions, labelled 0~8, are defined in 
the algorithm. Calculate the directions and 
length for each segment along anticlockwise 
from the first feature point. And then 
compare to the directions predefined to 
analyze the outline of the garment.  
 
Learning Style Categories 
As mentioned previously, clothing 
image is usually affected by its shape, pattern, 
color, and fabric material. Through social 
learning, people may have the capability to 
recognize the outlook styles, such as 
“modest” or “sexy”, with their experience 
and fashion sense. However, computers 
would not know those image classifications 
of attire. Category learning is thus a subject 
to explore how computer learns human 
thoughts and perceptions. In supervised 
learning, the correct results (target values and 
concept for coldness membership function. 
The equation is as 
2
2
1 (( ) exp(
22
hueColdness hue offset μσσ π
−= × − ) )       
On the other hand, concluded by fashion and 
textile, softness sensation of a garment is 
mainly brought by the saturation and 
illumination components of color and fabric 
material. The feel of softness of a garment 
usually comes out with fabric materials. We 
concluded several major fabrics in [8]. The 
feel of a garment’s softness is often from 
visualized movement and the quality form 
touch. An experiment for examining softness 
of different fabric has been done. We utilized 
the experimental results of softness to 
develop an interactive clothes simulation for 
users to input how soft a garment material is. 
Further, vivaciousness is usually from print 
formation and outline shape of a garment. 
The outline shape is determined by tracing 
the boundary of the garment. Compared to a 
template normal size, the value of fitness 
comes out.  
 
 
Figure 7: The work flow of matching process. 
Weather status, expected appearance, and 
occasion are three conditions input by user. 
 
Clothes matching process 
Matchmaker is activated while 
receiving the inquiry from user. It firstly 
processes a search with weather condition in 
garment database to get a group of garments 
which match current climate. Next, it sifts 
out a new clothes group from the first group 
with appearance impression category which 
user expected. And the third group is gained 
according to the occasion condition which 
user input and ‘color-occasion’ suit-rule. 
Matchmaker then chooses a top or a bottom 
within the last group as the basis to search a 
matched top or bottom for each object based 
on the matching rules, such as color harmony 
rules. Tops search for bottoms while bottoms 
search for tops. It then eliminates tops 
(bottoms) which do not match based on attire 
harmony principles in the order of print style 
harmony principle, color harmony principle, 
fabric material harmony principle, and 
outline shape principle. A group of clothes 
may match to the basis garment is sift out. It 
then evaluates the coordination of each 
garment pair according to harmony 
principles. The weight of color harmony is 
the highest since color affects visual image 
most. Print style is the second factor 
affecting clothing image, so the weight of 
print style harmony principle is the second 
highest one. And then the weight of fabric 
material is lower than the weight of print 
style principle since the current trend is 
towards mixing fashion. Figure 7 illustrates 
the processing flow. Matched garment pairs 
are divided into pantsuits and skirt suits, and 
shown in 3D Show Room. User can browse 
matched garment pairs and select one as the 
most favorite, and then send back to the 
system to update the user preference 
information. 
 
Virtual dressing 
As described in previous sections, our 
virtual garment is produced using 2D photos. 
After performing chain coding algorithm, a 
group of isolated feature points are gained. 
Hence, a well known Delaunay Triangulation 
algorithm needs to be performed for 
connecting all the feature points to produce a 
convex polygon. For balancing and 
smoothing the garment mesh surface, some 
new nodes are inserted and some redundant 
nodes are removed during triangulation. For 
each triangle, pick up the longest edge, and 
calculate the ratio between the length of 
summing the other two edges and the length 
of the longest edge. According to our 
experiments, for triangles with edge ratio 
below 1.3, which are flatter in shape, the 
node which is opposite to the longest edge of 
the triangle needs to be removed, and a new 
 10
 
Figure 9: (A) is the original garment image, (B) is the generated garment mesh, and (C) and 
(D) are final results. 
 
 
Figure 10: A complete functioning scenario. 
Black arrow lines indicate processing flow at 
off-line stage, while red arrow lines indicate 
processing at run time stage. 
 
五、結果與討論 
 
This research takes the issue of 
integrating computer technology and making 
computer more intelligent into consideration. 
There are many tasks, such as digital image 
processing, friendly interface design, 
category learning using artificial intelligence, 
and virtual clothing, have to be achieved 
while developing the system. Figure 10 
describes a complete operational scenario 
when using the system. In order to train the 
core to remember what a garment style is, we 
collected 60 tops, flatten each of them on the 
background, and taken photos using digital 
camera. Fashion stylists are then involved to 
give a specific impression category to each 
garment sample. However, one garment may 
show multiple feels to receivers. Even a 
specific impression of each garment sample 
is given, stylists do also provide several feels 
of each garment sample carries. Thus 
garment can be assigned to a proper 
impression category at run time stage. Image 
Analyzer is then activated to obtain features 
after garment images are input individually. 
Physical features are transformed to 
sensation space before performing similarity 
process. The known impression category of 
each garment in the training group is used for 
adjusting forming clusters. Those clusters are 
eventually stored in the knowledge base. We 
have gotten satisfactory results of impression 
categorization that only a small amount of 
training examples are needed, and the hit rate 
of each individual experiment is over 0.8. 
At the first use of the system, users need 
to take two photos for each garment (with the 
same camera angle and environment), one 
from the front and the other from the back, as 
the input information for the garment 
analyzer and to build the personal garment 
database. An image processing module is 
added to analyze the essentials of garments, 
such as major hue and outline. And then each 
garment is assign to one of those impression 
categories according to the information 
stored in knowledge base. Once the database 
has been built, users can query for fashion 
match suggestions by simply submitting 
several key requests to the system. 
Matchmaker then searches matched garments 
within personal wardrobe according to the 
match process. The results are shown in 3D 
view.  
 
六、計畫成果自評 
 
The significant contributions of the 
work are described as below: 
z Provide general users a friendly 
interface.  
 12
[10]  Lee, M.D. and Navarro, D.J. 
Extending the ALCOVE model of 
category learning to featural stimulus 
domains, Psychonomic Bulletin & 
Review, 9, 1, 2002, 43-58. 
[11]  Love, B.C., Medin, D.L,and Gureckis, 
T.M. SUSTAIN: A Network Model of 
Category Learning, Psychological 
Review, 111, 2004, 309-332. 
[12]  Weil J. The Synthesis of Cloth Objects. 
In: Proceeding of ACM SIGGRAPH 
86’, 24, pp. 243-252, 1986. 
[13]  Hing N. Ng and Richard L. Grimsdale. 
Computer Graphics Techniques for 
Modeling Cloth. In: IEEE Computer 
Graphics and Application, vol. 16, no. 
5, pp. 28-41, 1996. 
[14]  David Baraff and Andrew Witkin. 
Large Step in Cloth Simulation. In: 
SIGGRAPH 98 Conference 
Proceedings, pp. 43-54 (1998). 
[15]  Pascal Volino, Frederic Cordier, and 
Nadia Magnenat-Thalmann. From 
Early Virtual Garment Simulation to 
Interactive Fashion Design. Computer 
Aided Design, vol. 37, issue 6, pp. 
593-608 (2005). 
[16]  Napaporn Metaaphanon and Pizzanu 
Kanongchaiyos. Real-time Cloth 
Simulation for Garment CAD. In: 
Proceeding of ACM SIGGRAPH 2005, 
pp.83-89 (2005).  
[17]  Ze Gang Luo and Matthew M.F. Yuen.: 
Reactive 2D/3D garment pattern 
design modification. Computer-Aided 
Design, vol. 37, pp. 623-630 (2005). 
[18]  Charlie C.L. Wang, Yu Wang, 
Matthew M.F. Yuen. Feature Based 
3D Garment Design through 2D 
Sketches. Computer-Aided Design, vol. 
35, pp. 659-672 (2002). 
[19]  E. Turquin, M.P. Gani, and J. Hughes.: 
Sketching Garments for Virtual 
Characters. In: Proceedings of 
Eurographics Workshop Sketch-Based 
Interfaces and Modeling, pp. 175-182 
(2004). 
[20]  E. Turquin, J. Wither, L. Boissieux, 
Mp. Gani, and J. Hughes, A 
Sketch-based Interface for Clothing 
Virtual Characters, IEEE Computer 
Graphics and Application, pp. 72-81 
(2007). 
[21]  M. Tokumaru, N. Muranaka, and S. 
Imanishi. Virtual stylist 
project-examination of adapting 
clothing search system to user’s 
subjectivity with interactive genetic 
algorithms. In Evolutionary 
Computation, Vol. 2, pp. 1036-1043, 
2003. 
[22]  Institute of Textiles and Clothing, The 
Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
http://www.itc.polyu.edu.hk. 
[23]  Lin, J. J., 2007. Intelligent Decision 
Making Based on GA for Creative 
Apparel Styling, Journal of 
Information Science and Engineering, 
23, 6, 1923-1937. 
[24]  McKelvey, K., 1996. Fashion Source 
Book, Blackwell Science. 
[25]  Mirkin, Toby Fischer, 1995. Dress 
Code: Understanding the Hidden 
Meanings of Women’s Clothes. Gladys 
Perint Plamer. 
[26]  Tsai-Wan Lee, Art of Color 
Combination, Publishing House of 
Electronics Industry, 2005. 
[27]  Mio Sasamoto, Haishoku Imagination 
Book, Creative Room & Life 
Facilitation Lab, 2006. 
[28]  Joe Lupo and Jesse Garza, “Nothing to 
Wear? :A Five-Step Cure for the 
Common Closet”. Hudson Street Press, 
2006. 
[29]  Y. Matusda, Color Design, Asakura 
Shoten, 1995. 
[30]  Boris Delaunay.: Sur la sphère vide, 
Izvestia Akademii Nauk SSSR, 
Otdelenie Matematicheskikh i 
Estestvennykh Nauk. vol. 7, pp. 
793-800 (1934) 
 14
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 96-2221-E-194-059 
計畫名稱 Intelligent dressing consultant – an innovative application for digital life ［智慧型服裝搭配系統－數位生活U化的應用］ 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
劉興民 
國立中正大學資訊工程學系助理教授 
會議時間地點 97年 7月 12日至 7月 15日 雲南省昆明市 
會議名稱 IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics 
發表論文題目 An intelligent clothes search system based on fashion styles 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
這個研討會是由國際著名的 IEEE Systems, Man and Cybernetics Society所支持。
論文的接受率也是相當的競爭，根據大會所公佈的資訊是共收到 1542份論文投
遞，接受了其中的 250篇來做口頭發表。這個大規模的研討會每年提供了相關
學者專家在 machine learning和 cybernetics領域技術上有一個國際性交流的機
會。 
 
此次會議舉行的地點在風光明媚的雲南省昆明市。議程期間大會安排了許多場
次的 keynote speech和 tutorial，我也都儘可能的去聆聽學習。我的論文報告被安
排在第一天的第一場，又是第一位要上台報告者。因為行程安排上的原因，只
能在前一天的傍晚到達，也因為行程緊湊，顧不得旅途疲備的情況下，在第二
天一早就做了論文報告。之後在旅館略為休息後，再為次日培養充沛的體力。 
 
 
在大會結束的前一天晚上，舉行了一個盛大的晚宴餐會，讓所有參加的人享受
了一頓美食，並有賓至如歸的感覺。此宴會除了讓大家稍為放輕鬆一下，同時
也頒發了最佳學生論文獎。在那個場合中認識了一些來自世界各國的學者專
家，跟他們輕鬆的交談了一番。特別的是看到了很多大陸來的學者和研究生，
感覺到他們是特別的積極。這是臺灣同學需要改進的地方。 
Proceedings of  the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 
AN INTELLIGENT CLOTHES SEARCH SYSTEM BASED ON FASHION 
STYLES 
CHING-I CHENG1,2, DAMON SHING-MIN LIU 1
1 Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Chung Cheng University, Chia-yi 621, Taiwan 
2Department of General Education, Aletheia University, Matou Campus, Tainan county 712, Taiwan 
E-MAIL: {chengcy, damon}@cs.ccu.edu.tw 
Abstract: 
This work presents an intelligent clothes search system 
based on domain knowledge, targeted at creating a virtual 
assistant to search clothes matched to fashion and user’s 
expectation using all what have already been in real closet. All 
what garment essentials and fashion knowledge are from 
visual images. Users can simply submit the desired image 
keywords, such as elegant, sporty, casual, and so on, and 
occasion type, such as formal meeting, outdoor dating, and so 
on, to the system. And then the fashion style recognition 
module is activated to search the desired clothes within the 
personal garment database. Category learning with supervised 
neural networking is applied to cluster garments into different 
impression groups. The input stimuli of the neural network 
are three sensations, warmness, loudness, and softness, which 
are transformed from the physical garment essentials like 
major color tone, print type, and fabric material. The system 
aims to provide such an intelligent user-centric services system 
functions as a personal fashion advisor. 
Keywords: 
Intelligent system; Knowledge acquisition; Cognition; 
Neural network; Category learning 
1. Introduction 
Clothing signals a human wearer, and in doing so is 
tied into our conceptions of dignity, personhood and bodily 
integrity. People often try to hide colossal diffidence and 
prove personal value, attract attention and sometimes 
confirm the superiority with the help of attire [1][2][3]. 
However, some may experience the situation when standing 
in front of wardrobe and finding their mind goes blank 
since they have no idea about attire and fashion.  
With computer technology rapidly growing, 
researchers keep working hard on innovating computer 
applications which can enhance our daily life easily and 
conveniently. Artificial intelligence, for example, is one of 
the popular research fields, aiming to developing AI robots 
to work for human beings. Fuzzy methods always help to 
solve problems with intermediate values defined between 
conventional evaluations like yes/no, true/false, black/white, 
and so on. Further, we found most mathods of clothes 
search are based on garment types, such as shirts, pants, or 
skirts, and applied for E-shopping. There is no such an 
application functions as a personal fashion advisor to search 
suitable garments which match to desired image from 
personal wardrobe. Hence, a knowledge-based clothes 
searching system is a useful application in the modern 
fashion society.  
Our research aims to integrate clothing psychology, 
digital image processing techniques and category learning 
to build an intelligent clothes search system. In this paper 
we describe techniques by which fashion knowledge is 
prepared. In doing so, we point out challenging issues and 
solutions for tasks demanding at each phase of the system. 
In particular, we turn our attention to what we consider as 
key technical components: garments impression 
classification and fashion knowledge extraction. 
1.1. Outline of proposed system 
The proposed system is an application of visual-based 
knowledge extraction and cognitive science which 
functions as a personal image consultant to provide 
supports for making dressing decisions. An overview of the 
system pipeline is shown in Figure 1. The process is 
basically divided into offline period and run-time period. 
During offline stage, we work with a stylist to extract 
fashion-matching rules for categorizing garments using 
questionnaire and Neural Network models. In addition, the 
system is a kind of personal assistant, providing 
user-centric services. Thus, the second important 
component of the system is building a digital personal 
wardrobe. We simplify the process for users, all what 
essentials of a garment are extracted from visual images. To 
this end, users need to take a front-side photo for each 
garment as the input information for detecting garment 
978-1-4244-2096-4/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE 
1592 
Proceedings of  the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 
color is dark. In addition, the user of Virtual Stylist Project 
would not know whether the attire came out from the 
project suits to the occasion she is attending. Hence, a 
knowledge-based clothes search system which works as a 
real personal style advisor to general users, is a useful 
application in the modern fashion society. 
There is another application, attributable to Magic 
Mirror, is an intelligent mix-and-match system, proposed by 
the Hong Kong Polytechnic University in 2006, using smart 
fitting room and smart dressing mirror. This system uses the 
technology of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) to 
detect items brought into a fitting room or placed in front of 
a dressing room. The intelligent mix-and-match database of 
the system then delivers recommendations on what looks 
good with the item to the customer [8]. However, the 
process of identifying garments and determining whether 
they are matched is relying on the hardware, RFID. It is one 
of the important issues in textile industries. Nevertheless, 
the proposed system aims to achieve that the system swiftly 
finds out some clothes matched user’s desired image from 
own closet. It concerns with personalized and cognitive 
search. Thus RFID does not suit the proposed system. 
3. Approaches 
The proposed system aims at providing general users a 
friendly interface to search for suitable garments for 
attending a specific occasion as well as matching desired 
image. There are two major tasks have to be achieved, 
building a personal digital wardrobe and developing an 
impression based garment classifier. It integrates several 
different technologies, such as category learning, fuzzy set 
theory, and image processing. The following subsections 
describe those methodologies in details. 
3.1. Extracting garment essentials 
The digital personal wardrobe is a garment database in 
which each garment the user owns is presented as one 
record. For clearly representing a garment and reuse in the 
system, we need to find some specific garment attributes. 
Fashion trend and style cognition in recent two decades 
were considered and found that color, print style, outline 
shape and fabric material are main factors affecting clothing 
image [9][10][11]. For example, shorts show relaxation in 
general; white shows innocent according to color 
psychology; silk gives soft and gentle feel; a little petal 
signature shows sweetness more than a large amoeba 
pattern does.  Hence, we define “color”, “print style”, 
“outline shape”, and “fabric material” as the physical 
essentials of a garment. The first three essentials can be 
analyzed from a digital image exploiting several techniques 
of digital image processing, while the last essential can be 
gained by user input since textile processing is not the point 
of the research. The following describes the technologies 
for gaining garment essentials. 
Physical Properties 
A. Color Distribution 
From social psychology and fashion design, color is 
the first visual factor affecting the impression while apparel 
communicates. Researchers today in the fashion design 
industry and color psychology field have introduced a 
general sense of costume color [12][13][14]. Additionally, 
in the research of digital color, several color models are 
built to describe and represent color. RGB color model is an 
additive model in which red, green, and blue are combined 
in various ways to produce other color. It is useful to 
represent color in lighting equipments, such as monitor, 
video camera, and projector. HIS, also called HSB or HSV, 
is another color model in which color is presented by hue, 
saturation, and intensity. HIS model is generally used for 
humans’ description and interpretation of color. According 
to Matsuda’s Color Coordination [15], a color scheme type 
is composed based on the relationship between a hue type 
and a tone type. Hue types are defined using hue of a color 
in Munsell Hue Circle, and tone types are defined using 
value and saturation of a color in Munsell Color Space. 
Further, in the field of color psychology, ‘hue’ generally 
brings the sensation of warm and cold to human; 
‘saturation’ brings the feel of strong and light; and 
‘intensity’ brings the feel of soft and hard. In this research, 
the color of a garment is originally presented in RGB color 
format since all information of a garment is basically from 
a digitalized color image. Hence, a color space conversion 
from RGB to HIS is performed. The HIS components can 
be obtained using 
θ if  B≦G H= { 360-θ if  B＞G 
[ ]
[ ] ⎪⎪⎭
⎪⎪⎬
⎫
⎪⎪⎩
⎪⎪⎨
⎧
−−+−
−+−
=
−
2/12
1
))(()(
)()(
2
1
cos
BGBRGR
BRGR
θ  
[ ]),,min(
)(
31 BGR
BGR
S
++
−=
 
)(
3
1 BGRI ++=  
On the other hand, a color histogram technique is 
applied on the garment image to gain the coarse distribution 
of the colors in an image before processing color  
1594 
Proceedings of  the Seventh International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Kunming, 12-15 July 2008 
silhouette and inside print. In the case, we only consider the 
outline edge to process feature points detection. According 
to [16], the boundary of a 2D garment pattern is represented 
as a directional closed loop L={c1,…,cn}, where ci 
represents a parametric curve segment. prev(ci) represents 
the preceding curve segment of  ci, and next(ci) represents 
the next curve of ci with respect to the direction of Loop L, 
as shown in Figure 4. Thus, after processing feature points 
detection, we calculate chain code, including the values of 
direction and length, for each two neighbour feature points, 
then use them to recognize the outline of the garment. To 
this end, we define 8 directions, labelled 0~8, then calculate 
the directions and length for each segment anticlockwise 
from the first feature point. Afterwards, outline shape is 
transformed to fitness sensation according to a fuzzy set 
operation. 
Table 1. Adjectives and occasion collection table for 
garments. 
Outlook 
Adjectives Feeling Description Suitable Occasion 
Sexy Hot and charming Night party 
Modest Simplicity and calm Official meeting 
Sophisticated Clean  and well-executed Expert Meeting  
Elegant Refined and feminity Dating, home party 
Luxuriant Complexity and fancy Banquet  
Romantic Feminity and soft Sweet date  
Girly Young and cute Outdoor activity, date
Masculine Tough and strong Meeting 
Sporty Active and healthy Leisure time 
Casual Comfortable and fresh Leisure, outdoor active
Psychological Property-Impression 
Clothing image is usually affected by its shape, pattern, 
color, and fabric material. Through social learning, people 
may have the capability to recognize the outlook styles, 
such as “modest” or “sexy”, with their experience and 
fashion sense. However, computers would not know those 
image classifications of attire. In supervised learning, the 
correct results (target values and desired outputs) are known 
and are given to the Neural Network (NN) during training 
period so that NN can adjust its weights trying to match its 
outputs to the target values. Using the trained NN model, 
the system infers a target output value when having the 
input.  
ALCOVE model, the most successful and widely used 
NN models in cognitive psychology, is employed and 
modified in the proposed system for gaining impression of 
garments. For detailed descriptions and theoretical 
foundations of ALCOVE, readers are advised to refer to the 
original work by Kruschke [4]. 
Moreover, the physical property of textile can be 
extended in clothing psychology, the sensation of softness, 
the presentation of feminine and romance. Color presents 
the sensation of warm and cool in clothing psychology, 
such as reddish clothing shows warmth. Print style is a 
factor determining the sensation of cheeriness, such as a 
calico and loud dress brings girly feel. Different material 
brings different feel in nature, such as denim is much harder 
than silk. Outline shape determines the fitness. Hence, the 
extended sensations of major color, print style, outline 
shape, and fabric material are the four input nodes of the 
ALCOVE based NN model. And fuzzy set theoretical 
approaches are applied to transform each garment essentials 
from physical space to sensation space according to the 
literature in fashion and textile. 
Furthermore, concluded from fashion stylist, clothing 
are generally categorized into ten different styles, which are 
sexy, modest, sophisticated, elegant, luxuriant, romantic, 
girly, masculine, sporty, and casual, by fashion stylists  
(Table 1 concludes the description for each stylish 
description). Hence, large amount of clothing-style training 
example set, garment image and clothing adjective, are 
provided at offline stage while training ALCOVE based NN 
model to learn impression categorization. In order to have 
creditable training exemplars, a questionnaire concerning 
with clothing impression has to be performed. 
 The scheme of the questionnaire is arranged as 
below: 
1. First, select twenty sample garments and prepare their 
digital images. 
2. Scheme the questionnaire. 
3. In this case, ten adjectives are the selection group for 
answering the most suitable impression of each garment 
sample.   
4. Inquiry 100 young girls who are senior students in 
fashion design aged from 18 to 25 about the evaluation of 
the samples.   
5. Represent garment using four features, color, outline, 
texture, and material.  Therefore people also need to 
indicate the proportion of each garment feature affects to 
impression.   
Analyze the data and map to the impression space.  
The impression space is formed by sensations of warmth, 
softness, and vivaciousness in which a point represents a 
garment sample. Hence, fuzzy sets are used for measuring 
sensations of garments. Membership functions are the 
bridges between physical essentials and psychological 
sensations and are defined based on the dominant color, 
print style, outline shape, and fabric.  
According to color psychology, the warmth is usually 
from the hue component of color. Figure 5 shows the 
1596 
