 2
suitable for exploring the “unwieldy” 
terrains. In addition, NMSS has been widely 
accepted as the most robust and efficient of 
current sequential techniques for 
unconstrained optimization; numerous 
software packages include NMSS as an 
optimization solver (such as Mathematica, 
2002; MultiSimplex, 2001; PROC IML in 
SAS, 1998; among others). The NMSS 
method has been demonstrated its wide 
versatility, accuracy and ease of use for 
solving different types of optimization 
problems in the area of applied statistics 
(Olsson, 1974; Olsson and Nelson, 1975; 
Khuri and Cornell, 1987; Copeland and 
Nelson, 1996). These have all been 
developed in the context of previously 
defined, noise- free functions that is to be 
optimized, yet the utility to full-scale 
operation processes (that is, response 
surface optimization in the presence of 
errors) has been scarcely reported in the 
response surface methodology (RSM) 
literature. Barton and Ivey (1996) and 
Humphrey and Wilson (2000) presented 
numerous variants of NMSS procedures and 
the computational experiences showed 
promise for stochastic simulation models. 
Barton and Ivey (1996) also pointed out 
several crucial weaknesses of the original 
NMSS approach when applied to stochastic 
response systems; for example, algorithm’s 
premature termination around a local 
optimum point, lack of solution robustness 
against noisy responses, computational 
inefficiency, etc. Improvement on the 
efficiency and effectiveness of NMSS for 
stochastic response systems is deemed 
necessary. Box (1966) and Parkinson and 
Hutchinson (1972) have suggested that 
NMSS seems to be less effective in 
optimum seeking as the number of 
dimensionality is increased. However, for 
the usual problems arising from the RSM 
practice, the number of influential process 
factors included in the final model is rarely 
larger than half a dozen (Myers and 
Montgomery, 2002; Olsson and Nelson, 
1975). Typically, a “pre-experiment” via a 
fractional factorial is carried out in the 
earlier phase to eliminate the unimportant 
factors, so the remaining number of 
significant ones is small. If properly devised, 
the NMSS can be anticipated to work well 
for stochastic response surface optimization. 
This case holds particularly when the 
response surface has not been fitted or the 
system (or process) under investigation is 
too complex to provide an adequate physical 
model, so the gradient information is 
unavailable. It makes sense to use 
NMSS-type methods on-line to sequentially 
optimize the “actual” process response.  
 
2. Computational Comparisons of 
Simulation Optimization Procedures  
 
A wide variety of computational 
comparisons of NM SPC with the two latest 
modifications of NMSS, by Barton and Ivey 
(1996) and Humphrey and Wilson (2000), 
were performed for the stochastic response 
surface optimization problems. It is 
important to note that procedure NM+SPC 
is somewhat ad hoc. By contrast to NMSS, 
the proposed method simplifies the 
reflection rule (without recourse to sechix ) in 
an attempt to lessen the influence of errors 
 4
percentage among final k  coordinates 
(achieved by procedures) from those of the 
“true” optimum solution *x , given by  
* *
*1
ˆ
max ,j j
j k
j
x x
B
x≤ ≤
−=     (3) 
where *ˆ jx is the
thj coordinate of the 
estimated solution achieved (with respect to 
the vertex point having the smallest function 
value over the final simplex), and *jx is the 
counterpart of the “true” optimum 
solution *x . Note that the test problems used 
in this work have optimum points that all 
have nonzero coordinate values. When the 
test problem has multiple optimum points, 
the criterion in (3) is evaluated for every 
optimum solution and the minimum among 
them is thus taken as the final value of B. 
The last one is the average of deviation 
percentages over final k coordinates 
(achieved) from those of *x , defined by  
* *
*
1
ˆ1 k j j
j j
x x
A
k x=
−= ∑ ,    (4) 
Likewise, if there exist multiple optimum 
solutions for the test function, we evaluate 
the foregoing criterion for every optimum 
and take the smallest of these quantities as 
the final value of A. On the whole, A 
provides the best accuracy assessment of 
optimum location attainment for a particular 
procedure. As noted by Humphrey and 
Wilson (2000) that no individual criterion 
could be treated as an overall performance 
index, however, combining these four 
evaluation statistics collected from various 
test problems might provide important 
insight into the searching capability and 
solution quality of selected stochastic 
response surface optimization procedures.  
 
2.3 Computational Experience  
 
We chose test problems 1-5 discussed 
in Humphrey and Wilson (2000) to compare 
procedures NMSS, RS+S9 (Barton and Ivey, 
1996), RSS (Humphrey and Wilson, 2000) 
and NM+SPC. Summary and detailed 
analyses of the experimental results are 
presented as well. For further details about 
the test functions and termination criterion, 
see Humphrey and Wilson (2000). The 
entire experimental evaluation is divided 
into the following three scenarios.  
 
Scenario 1: Individual Simulation Report 
of NM+SPC 
 
First, NM+SPC was examined 
independently via the five test problems 
with added white noises. The same initial 
points as suggested by Humphrey and 
Wilson (2000) were employed. To keep the 
total number of function evaluations in a 
reasonable range, the replication number 
described in NM+SPC was set to 
2n = (that is, 2 1.128d = ). Three levels of 
noise variability, *0.75 fεσ = × (low), 
*1.00 fεσ = × (med.) and *1.25 fεσ = × (high), 
were assumed. The selection of initial step 
sizes depends on the preliminary 
computational experience that procedure 
NMSS was utilized with various step sizes 
to optimize deterministic (error-free) test 
functions. It has been realized that the initial 
 6
To provide adequate comparisons 
between procedures, test problems 1-5 with 
the configuration arranged in scenario 1 
were treated as a simulation base here. 
Three other simplex-search-type methods, 
NMSS (Nelder and Mead, 1965), RS+S9 
(Barton and Ivey, 1996) and RSS 
(Humphrey and Wilson, 2000), were 
compared to NM+SPC in stochastic 
optimization terrains. In fact, the 
computational results concerned with 
NMSS, RS+S9 and RSS were directly 
borrowed from Humphrey and Wilson 
(2000) where two tolerance values, 
65.6 10−×  and 2010− , were combined to 
form the termination criterion. The results of 
NM+SPC were from scenario 1. Table 3 
shows the full comparison report. On 
average, 36.1% reduction in D  was 
accomplished by NM+SPC, 59.8% 
reduction in B and 67.85% reduction in A . 
As was to be expected, the function 
evaluations incurred by NM+SPC 
outnumbered several times RS+S9 and RSS 
designed for the optimization of noisy 
response functions because of the 
re-sampling actions taken necessarily 
throughout steps 3-6. Nevertheless, from the 
experimental results shown in Tables 1-3, 
repetitive replication in NM+SPC seems a 
worthy investment enabling to “monitor and 
control” the effects of stochastic noises 
within a reasonable range, making the 
search patters of NM+SPC in stochastic 
optimization resemble those of NMSS in 
deterministic optimization. That is, the 
replicating mechanism could act as a noise 
filter to steer the search course properly 
toward the “true” optimum point, as will be 
illustrated through pictorial presentation 
shortly. Computational evaluation gained on 
numerous test instances presented in 
scenarios 1-3 has demonstrated the rich 
potential of procedure NM+SPC for solving 
the stochastic response surface optimization 
problems. Even so, the reduction of function 
evaluations in NM+SPC is still an issue for 
further research. 
 
2.4 Stochastic Response Surface 
Optimization 
 
In this section, four response surfaces 
adapted from Brooks (1959) were utilized to 
test the new simplex-search-type procedure, 
along with the comparisons with other three 
procedures, NMSS, NM+REP and RS+S9. 
The NM+REP procedure is a 
straightforward variant of NMSS with 
operation-wide replication, which will be 
explained later. It has been very hard to 
draw conclusions about the relative 
advantages and disadvantages of different 
simplex-search-type procedures with 
increasing dimensionality (Humphrey and 
Wilson, 2000), so we had the problem size 
fixed at a low dimension. Each surface is of 
two-dimensions and has a unique global 
maximum. The stochastic error ε was 
assumed normally distributed with mean 
zero and 0.03,0.10,0.20εσ = , respectively. 
These magnitudes were selected to 
approximate a coefficient of variation of 
10%, 30% and 60% of the average response 
around the neighborhood of the global 
optimum. The study of each test problem 
constituted a full two-way factorial 
experiment. The first factor is the 
 8
optimum point of example 1 with all the 
errors of performance statistics within 1%. 
Unfortunately, the other three procedures 
could only stall at way-off (non-optimum) 
locations even if a small number of function 
evaluations were needed. The search trails 
left by NM+SPC while solving example 1 
were marked in Figure 2(a) under three 
different noise levels, 0εσ = (noise-free), 
0.10εσ = (30%) and 0.20εσ = (60%). For 
this situation, the search patters of NM+SPC 
in the stochastic case closely resembled 
those of NMSS in the deterministic case, 
implying that the random noises have been 
“properly regulated” to direct the search to 
the neighborhood of the global optimum 
point. The numbers of iterations needed by 
NM+SPC were close to those of NMSS. 
Figure 2(b) plotted the response function 
value achieved against iteration. In essence, 
the way in which functional improvement 
developed with iteration by NM+SPC was 
very similar to that by NMSS. It has been 
proved again that the modified simplex 
search procedure proposed here could 
successfully resolve the stochastic 
optimization problems.  
 
2.4.2 Numerical Example 2 
 
The second response surface is a 
modified version of Surface 2 in Brooks 
(1959). See also Example 1 in Rees, Clayton 
and Taylor (1985). The stochastic response 
function for maximization is defined by 
4 4
1 2 1 2
4 4
1 2 1 2
500{(0.3 0.4 0.3 ) (0.8 0.6 0.8 )
exp[2 (0.3 0.4 0.3 ) (0.8 0.6 0.8 ) ] },
y z z z z
z z z z ε
= + + − +
− + + − − + +
 (7) 
where 1 1 2 2600, 900z x z x= = . The global 
maximum point takes place at 
1 2( , ) (600,900)x x =  with * 500f = . The 
initial point 1 2( , ) (450,600)x x = was used 
with step size 1. The simulation results of 
experimental optimization for numerical 
example 2 were shown in Table 5. Note that 
the remaining parameters were set at the 
default values given in numerical example 1. 
Akin to the computational results shown in 
example 1, NM+SPC outperformed the 
other procedures to a great extent and all the 
errors of critical performance statistics were 
no more than 8.3%. Likewise, procedure 
NM+REP still cannot benefit from 
purposeless re-sampling to deliver 
satisfactory outcomes. Rees, Clayton and 
Taylor (1985) stated that their method could 
not work properly as the noise variability 
was raised to 0.2σ = . 
 
2.4.3 Numerical Example 3–4 
 
The third surface is a variant of Surface 
1 taken from Brooks (1959). The goal was 
to maximize the following stochastic 
response function 
4 4
1 2
4 4
1 2
100{(0.5 0.5 )
exp[2 (0.5 0.5 ) ] },
y z z
z z ε
= +
− + − +
   (8) 
where 1 1 2 2200, 300z x z x= = . The global 
maximum point resides at 
1 2( , ) (200,300)x x = with * 100f = . The initial 
starting point was chosen 
as 1 2( , ) (100,100)x x = . The last response 
surface to be maximized was also adapted 
from Brooks (1959, Surface 3), as given by 
2 2
1 1
2
1 2
200{ exp[1
20.25( ) ] },
y z z
z z ε
= −
− − +
    (9) 
where 1 1 2 2150, 250z x z x= = . The global 
max. point occurs at 1 2( , ) (150,250)x x = with 
 10
Similarly, satisfactory results held in the 
main for the other three examples. More, the 
non-constant variance is of little concern 
here since the F test statistic is only slightly 
affected in situations where the assumption 
of homogeneity of variances is violated (see, 
e.g., Montgomery, 2001). The quantity 2R , 
interpreted as the variability reduction due 
to the ANOVA model, for every case was 
displayed in Table 8, providing additional 
evidence of the adequacy of the statistical 
model (10) for this study. All 2R values are 
above 0.97, and the most are above 0.99. 
 
2.4.5 Main ANOVA Results and 
Interpretations 
 
Having confirmed the model adequacy 
through a study of residuals, then we felt 
secure to perform the statistical F tests for 
the two main effects and their interaction. 
Table 9 exhibits the test statistics 0F for the 
effect of optimization procedure (P), the 
effect of noise variability (Q) and their 
interaction effect (P × Q ). For each 
numerical example, the corresponding 
ANOVA result reveals that the optimization 
procedure ( jP ) is an overwhelmingly 
significant main effect in every performance 
measure. For the performance measure L of 
each example, the noise variability ( kQ ) and 
interaction ( j kP Q× ) terms do not exhibit 
statistically significant effects, meaning that 
the levels of error standard deviation have 
little impact in procedures’ convergence rate. 
A prime reason is that all the stopping 
criteria being applied to these 
simplex-search-based procedures were 
particularly designed to deal with stochastic 
optimization circumstances, viz. Dennis and 
Woods’ criterion for NMSS and RS+S9 , 
_CV X for NM+SPC. For the rest of 
performance measures (D, B and A), the two 
main effects and their interaction have been 
found statistically significant nearly in every 
instance (see Table 9). Yet, the optimization 
procedure ( jP ) is still the most dominant 
main effect in the ANOVA study. In brief, 
these three performance outputs did 
considerably differ between optimization 
procedures; as the level of noise standard 
deviation was increased, optimization tasks 
in terms of D, B and A became difficult to a 
certain degree. As can be seen from Tables 
4-7, the three performance outputs of 
procedures NMSS and RS+S9 seemed 
unfazed with respect to the levels of noise 
variability. 
 
2.4.6 Multiple Comparisons Procedures 
 
Although the main effect of noise 
variability ( kQ ) and the interaction effect 
( j kP Q× ) show statistical significance at the 
significance level 0.05α = for numerous 
cases in Table 9, their magnitudes (or 
significances) of the F statistic compete way 
off with those of the main effect of 
optimization procedure. Consequently, we 
regarded the effects of kQ  and j kP Q×  as 
being not that important as should be in the 
traditional analysis of variance. We 
computed average performance measures 
for each numerical example ( 1,2,..., 4i = ) 
 12
capability. The proposed real-coded GA 
works by making a population of 
individuals evolve according to a replica of 
Darwinian Theory. The initial population 
consists of one predetermined starting point 
and 5N-1 randomly generated chromosomes 
(where N is the problem dimensionality), 
which are coded in floating-point numbers. 
Each chromosome represents a complete 
solution and contains the information of a 
set of independent variables. In this 
real-coded GA, parents are selected based 
on the ordinal ranking of their noisy fitness 
evaluations. Parents bear offspring through 
the application of genetic operators such as 
crossover and mutation. The main operator 
is a variation of the arithmetical crossover 
operator with the crossover probability of 
100%, and the random mutation operator 
with 30% probability is employed as a 
secondary operator. Generation after 
generation of offspring is produced until the 
stopping criteria are satisfied, at which point 
the exploration process terminates. It is 
important to note that the random number 
intervals of crossover and mutation 
coefficients used in the GA are selected 
primarily based on the concepts of 
“reflection” and “contraction” operations of 
the NM simplex search procedure, 
respectively. During crossover, the 
algorithm wishes to extend its exploration 
latitude toward the most promising search 
direction, so a crossover coefficient greater 
than 1.0 is most desired. During mutation, 
the GA wishes to stay away from those 
chromosomes (solutions) with inferior 
fitness, so a mutation coefficient less than 
1.0 is preferred. Due to the above argument, 
we had conducted various experimental 
simulations and discovered that the new GA 
using interval values of [1.2, 2.2] for 
crossover and [0.3, 0.7] for mutation could, 
on the whole, produce accurate and reliable 
solutions for the stochastic optimization 
problems. For more details about the 
parameter setting in the presented GA, see 
Zahara and Fan (2003). We selected four 
test problems in Brooks (1959) to serve as a 
test-bed for comparing the performance of 
the real-coded GA with those of NM, 
RS+S9 and NM+SPC. Table 11 presents the 
comparison results of these four methods. It 
shows NM+SPC and real-coded GA do 
indeed exhibit excellent performance as 
compared to NM and RS+S9 in terms of the 
performance measures D, B and A. 
Real-coded GA needs fewer number of 
function evaluations than NM+SPC, with 
results farther from the global optimum than 
obtained by NM+SPC. 
 
2.5.2 Application to Chemical Mechanical 
Planarization Process  
 
The experimental results of the section 
4.4 have demonstrated evidently that 
NM+SPC is very effective to deal with the 
optimization problem under the influence of 
noises. Indeed, a relevant application of our 
method existing in the semiconductor 
practice refers to the problem of process 
recipe optimization (or recipe qualification) 
in the pre-production lines of 
chemical-mechanical planarization (CMP) 
processes. In recent days, the rapid 
proliferation of CMP applications has been 
gaining popularity to make up the 
 14
2[ ( , ) 1700]
1 1, 1,2,..., 4.
RR
k
Minimize Y x t
subject to x k
−
− ≤ ≤ =  (13) 
Where t  is defined as before. The 
objective function shown above indicates 
the squared deviation of average removal 
rates from the nominal value; the bound 
constraints are placed on each control 
variable to restrict the search inside the 
acceptability region where the equipment 
model was developed. To handle the 
“constrained” minimization problem as in 
(13), whenever any gene (control variable) 
in chromosome (solution) falls outside the 
simple bound, then the algorithm 
automatically pulls its value back into the 
region [−1, 1] . For example, if 1 1.5x = (or 
-1.5) is produced during the optimization 
process then it is set to 1 0.9x = (or -0.9), 
respectively. 
Figure 5 displays the optimal recipe 
profiles of four control variables 1 4( )x x−  
returned by using NM+SPC for a polishing 
cycle of a single pad. In every subfigure, the 
solid line corresponds to the optimal recipe 
profile for the noisy environment; the dash 
line corresponds to the optimal recipe 
profile for the noise- free environment. It 
has been found that all the optimal recipe 
profiles of the noisy environment closely 
follow those of the noise-free environment 
except some lag delays, explaining that 
NM+SPC could correctly grasp the position 
and trend of the “true” optimal recipe profile 
under the influence of random noises. It is 
also understood that the platen speed 1( )x  
needs to be always set at a high level, the 
back-pressure 2( )x  and the polishing 
down-force 3( )x  must decrease with time, 
and the profile of the conditioning system 
4( )x  must increase with time in order to 
maintain a stable removal rate. The removal 
rate as computed by using the optimal recipe 
profiles in discrete-event simulations of the 
noisy CMP process is shown in Figure 6. 
The output data from real-coded GA and 
NM+SPC all randomly hug around the 
target value of 1700. For the purpose of 
comparison with RS+S9 and real-coded GA, 
we report the mean squared error (MSE) as 
shown in Table 11. The MSE of NM+SPC 
is 82.6144 for the noisy environment, and 
101.0216 10−× for the noise-free environment, 
as can be seen in Table 12. The standard 
error of the noisy output ( 82.6144 9)≈ is 
merely 36% of the standard deviation of 
tε assumed in (12). By contrast, following 
the identical simulation configuration, the 
real-coded GA procedure yields an MSE 
=170.6102 for the noisy environment, and 
an 19MSE 6.384 10−= × for the noise-free 
environment. Both methods yield 
satisfactory results, but our procedure 
performs better in solution accuracy (16% 
reduction in the MSE statistic). 
 
2.6 Conclusions 
 
 This research has presented a new 
simplex-search-type scheme, termed 
NM+SPC, for the stochastic response 
surface optimization problems. To deal with 
the random errors heuristically, NM+SPC 
simplifies some of the basic operations of 
conventional Nelder-Mead method and 
incorporates a re-sampling strategy based 
upon the statistical estimation techniques 
 16
strategy that is being currently investigated 
by the authors. 
 
6. 計畫成果自評 
 
1. 研究內容與原計畫相輔程度說明(如低於 50，請將不符處
說明於後)   100% 
2. 本研究達成預期目標概要(請從報告中指出其最主要的項
目，複選) 
■創新之發現 ■實驗原型或系統之建立 
理論之推導或模式建立 ■人才培育 
技術水準之提升 其他(請說明) 
新技術在國內之再現 未獲具體成果(請說明) 
3. 本研究成果之學術參考價值 
極高 ■高 中 普通 低 
請列示應送參考機構名稱: 工業工程與管理 
4. 本研究成果之應用推薦價值： 
極高 高 ■中 普通 低 
如可能，請建議送交那些單位或業者參考： 
學術研究 
可立即推薦      ■尚需進一步研究      不宜推薦
5. 本研究成果可申請專利項目之說明： 
可 發明 新型 新式樣 
不可，請說明：學術性研究無可申請專利之必要 
6. 本研究成果發表之建議： 
否：機密性 成果層次尚須再加強 
■是，且刊載何種刊目為宜？ 
■本會 Proceedings 季刊 本會科學發展月刊 
■可發表於其他國內外期刊 
International Journal for Numerical Methods in Engineering
7. 綜評(請就本研究之核定經費額度與報告之結果、成效、
主要發現及其他有關價值等作一綜合評估) 
目前本階段研究的結果已完成。研究主要貢獻為： 
1) 完成 NM-SPC 的相關分析與改良並予以實現。 
2) 本階段研究針對 NMSS 進行相關分析與改良，促成
NM-SPC 的實現之餘，並將其與當前著名的演算法
則進行相關實驗比較，於各測試問題上的呈現均有
著較佳的成效表現，若可將其導用於處理業界常見
之隨機最佳化問題之上，應甚為受用，而於學術領
域面而言，更可另闢一研究新局。 
※對本研究成果報告自評等第：極佳 ■佳 中 可 劣
 
7. References 
 
[1] Barton, R. R. and Ivey J. S., Jr. (1996). 
“Nelder-Mead Simplex Modifications for 
Simulation Optimization,” Management 
Science 42, pp. 954-973. 
[2] Box, M. J. (1966). “A Comparison of Several 
Current Optimization Methods, and the Use of 
Transformation in Constrained Problems,” The 
Computer Journal 9, pp. 67-77. 
[3] Brooks, S. H. (1959). “A Comparison of 
Maximum-Seeking Methods,” Operations 
Research 7, pp. 430-457. 
[4] Castillo, E. Del and Yeh, J. (1998). “An 
Adaptive Run-To-Run Optimization Controller 
for Linear and Nonlinear Semiconductor 
Processes,” IEEE Transactions on 
Semiconductor Manufacturing 11, pp.285-295. 
[5] Copeland, K. A. F. and Nelson, P. R. (1996). 
“Dual Response Optimization via Direct 
Function Minimization,” Journal of Quality 
Technology 28, pp. 331-336. 
[6] Dennis, J. E. Jr. and Woods, D. J. (1987). 
“Optimization on Microcomputers: The 
Nelder-Mead Simplex Algorithm,” New 
Computing Environments: Microcomputers in 
Large Scale Computing, A. Wouk (ED.), 
SIAM, Philadelphia, PA, pp. 116-122. 
[7] Fan, S. K. (2000). “Quality Improvement of 
Chemical-Mechanical Wafer Planarization 
Process in Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Using a Combined Generalized Linear 
Modeling-Non-Linear Programming 
Approach,” International Journal of 
Production Research 38, pp. 3011-3029. 
[8] Goldberg, D. E. (1998). Genetic Algorithms in 
 18
 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 1 Assessment of stopping criterion based on _CV Y and _CV X for (a) k=2, (b) k=10 and 
(c) k=18. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2 (a) Search paths of NM+SPC and (b) Functional improvement versus iteration for 
numerical experiment 1. 
 
(a) (b) 
Figure 3 Normal probability plot of the residuals in the ANOVA model (10) for performance 
measure (a) L and (b) D of example 1. 
 
 20
Table 1 Simulation results generated by using NM+SPC procedure for test problems 1-5. 
 
 
Table 2 Simulation results using NM+SPC procedure for test problems of lower dimension. 
 
 
 22
Table 5 Comparison results of procedures NMSS, NM+REP, RS+S9 and NM+SPC for example 2. 
 
 
Table 6 Comparison results of procedures NMSS, NM+REP, RS+S9 and NM+SPC for example 3. 
 
 
Table 7 Comparison results of procedures NMSS, NM+REP, RS+S9 and NM+SPC for example 4. 
 
 24
Table 11 Comparisons results on procedures NMSS, RS+S9, real-coded GA and NM+SPC selected 
from four test problems in Brooks (1959). 
 
 
Table 12 Comparison results of procedures RS+S9, real-coded GA and NM+SPC for application to 
chemical mechanical planarization process. 
 
 
