摘要 
 
本計畫的目的是研發將碟狀分子材料用于光電和生醫器件的技術。本計畫包含三個相互
關聯的年度子計劃﹐分年度完成三個階段的研究﹕基板表面特性及其對碟狀分子堆疊的影
響﹐研發碟狀分子配向技術﹐製作碟狀材料光電和生醫器件。本報告是對第二階段的工作及
所取得的成果之小結。本階段的研究主題是對前一階段的初步成果作更進一步的探討﹐並研
發碟狀分子材料的配向方法。我們進一步探討表面能對柱狀態配向的影響。通過應用表面電
漿轟擊和改變基板的溫度來改變基板表面能﹐並展示垂直配向的碟狀分子柱的傾斜度隨表面
能的降低而增大。我們嘗試了實用表面濕刻和表面改質材料的方法對碟狀分子進行配向。初
步結果顯示在通過濕刻並具有適當表面形態的基板上﹐可以獲得優良配向的柱狀態。這個結
果為下階段的工作提供了極為有利的條件。 
 
關鍵詞﹕碟狀分子、分子堆疊、自組裝、表面能、表面錨定、柱狀態配向 
 
Abstract 
The purpose of this study is to exploit the possibilities of the use of materials consisting of 
discotic molecules in electrooptical and biomedical devices. The project consists of three phase of 
research, the surface characteristics of the substrates, the effects of these characteristics on the 
molecular anchoring of discotic molecules, the use of the knowledge in exploiting molecular 
alignment techniques for discotic materials, and fabrication of electrooptical and biomedical 
devices, with each phase of research lasting one year. This report is a summary on the work which 
has been done and the major achievements in the second phase of the research. The main objects 
in this phase of research are to exploit techniques for the alignment of discotic materials toward 
the optoelectronic applications based on our knowledge gained through previous phase of studies. 
The effects of surface free energy of a substrate on the columnar tilt have further been studied. We 
demonstrated that the modification of the surface free energy of the substrate can be attainment by 
O2 plasma buffing or by controlling temperature of the substrate. For a homeotropically aligned 
columnar phase, a decrease in the surface free energy of the substrate will cause an increase in the 
tilt of the columns from the normal to the substrate. We tried to use novel methods, including wet 
etching of polymer surface and the use of surfactants, to control an ordered molecular stacking in a 
columnar phase, and the initial results showed a good aligned columnar phase can be achieved at a 
patterned surface. 
 
Key words: discotic molecules, molecular stack, self-assembly, surface free energy, surface 
anchoring, columnar phase alignment 
 II
that the surface free energy can be modified by means of surface coating.   
 
Table 1. Surface free energies of different substrates 
Substrate Glass ITO Polyimide PTFE 
Surface free energy 
/ mJ m-2
53.32 40.98 39.01 38.45 
 
2.2. Modify surface energetic states by means of physicochemical treatment 
O2 plasma buffing  Surface energetic state of the substrates can be modified by O2 plasma 
treatment. As shown in Fig. 1, the surface free energy of the substrate increases with the time a 
substrate exposed to the plasma. The increase in the surface free energy was thought to result from 
an increase in the free radicals on the glass surface and the electrostatic interaction arising from 
electron collision with surface and electrification during the plasma bombardment. Besides, the 
increase in oxygen on the surface due to the extra amount of oxygen brought to the surface by the 
O2 plasma stream may also contribute to the increase in the surface free energy. A buffing direction 
on the substrates was created by obliquely bombarding the surface with the plasma stream [10].   
0 10 20 30
52
54
56
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
S
ur
fa
ce
 F
re
e 
E
ne
rg
y 
/ m
J/
m
2
Exposure Time / min  
Fig. 1. Effect of O2 plasma bombardment on the surface free energy. 
 
Mechanical rubbing Mechanical rubbing to a polyimide results in the formation of the grooved 
surface, and this clearly indicates that the topographical uniformity of the surfaces of the 
polyimide films has been broken, and anisotropy in the surface topography has been created, and 
promotes the formation of a template with an anisotropic surface tension [5]. The surface tension 
measured along the direction against the rubbing direction is higher than that measured towards 
the rubbing direction (Fig. 2).  
 The wetting characteristics of the rubbed polyimide also exhibit an anisotropic behavior. In 
the rubbing direction the rubbed polyimide shows higher hydrophilicity, whereas in anti-rubbing 
 2
discussion can be found in references [10-12].   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              (a)                     (b)                       (c)     
Fig. 4. Optical texture of HDBP-8 sandwiched (a) between glass plates, (b) ITO glass 
substrates, and (b) between rubbed PTFE coated glass plates, respectively.  
 
III. Methodology  
The main objective of the second phase of work was to further our studies on the surface 
characteristic of polymer, and took an insight into the molecules at interfacial region. A literature 
study showed us that although the techniques, to date, can more or less show their ability to align 
discotic molecules, none of them can be used in practical applications due to their low reliability, 
high cost, or complexity. On the other hand, despite the substantial activities related to the material 
processing and the device applications of discotic materials, the fundamental molecular assembly 
principles that determine the macroscopic orientation of discotic molecules are still poorly 
understood. We thought that a lack in the knowledge on the surface characteristics of substrate 
may be a missing link, and determined to approach the molecular alignment of columnar phase by 
considering the surface properties of the substrate. Based on the knowledge obtained in the 
previous phase of work, we studied the dynamic surface wetting characteristics. We observed 
orientation of rod-like molecules in a mesophase on the solid surface, and through this to find out 
what governs the stacking of discotic molecules.  
 
V. Results and achievement 
The surface wetting characteristics can be described using contact angle of a drop of water 
which is put in contact with the surface. The contact angle can be determined when the system, i.e. 
water plus the substrate, reaches thermal dynamic equilibrium, and this was what has been done in 
the first phase of the research. In this way, we showed that the surface wetting characteristics of 
rubbed polyimide is anisotropic. In many cases, however, a dynamic analysis, in which the contact 
angle hysteresis is examined, can provide results which are more closed to the true wetting 
characteristics of surface.  
The profiles of a water droplet on a rubbed polyimide in both advancing and receding curses 
 4
study on the observation of the de-symmetry in surface energetic template induced by a 
mechanical rubbing. We found that there is a so called in line anisotropy in surface free energy,   
which is defined as the difference between the free energy measured towards the rubbing direction 
and that measured against the rubbing direction. We showed that a proper rubbing can eliminate or 
reduce the in-line anisotropy of the surface free energy. Furthermore, as the disappearance or 
diminishment of the in-line anisotropy, a uniform and ordered smectic molecular packing can be 
produced leading to the formation of a defect free ferroelectric liquid crystal layer [4]. We believe 
that the effect of the anisotropic surface characteristics of the substrate on the orientation for the 
rod-like molecular materials will help us to understand the ordered molecular stacking for discotic 
materials.  
 In order to clearly describe the assembly of discotic molecules in columnar phase, we 
give unambiguous definitions for molecular anchoring and orientations of discotic materials, 
as shown in Fig. 7. In the face-on anchoring, the discotic molecules lie on the substrate with 
the axes of molecules perpendicular to the substrate surface, whereas in the edge-on 
anchoring, the molecular axes are parallel to the surface of the substrate. In a columnar phase, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. The orientational manners of the discotic molecules which are in contact with a 
solid surface: (a) Face-on anchoring of discotic molecules. (b) Edge-on anchoring of 
discotic molecules. (c) Homeotropic alignment of discotic columns. (d) Homogenous 
alignment of discotic columns. 
the molecular packing, in which all discotic molecules are in the face-on anchoring and stack 
to form discotic columns organized with their axes orienting perpendicular to the substrate, is 
referred to as the homeotropic alignment of the columnar phase. The homogeneous alignment 
 6
influences on the molecular stack of discotic molecules. We concentrated particular on the effects 
of surface free energy of the substrate on the stack of disc-like molecules and the orientation of the 
discotic columns. Major achievements and progress can be summarized as follows. 
i) Surface energetic state of substrate can determine the orientation of the discotic 
columns  
On a solid with high surface free energy the discotic molecules tend to stack to form 
homeotropic aligned columns with the face-on molecular anchoring at the surface, 
whereas a surface with low free energy favours the edge-on molecular anchoring and 
induces homogeneous alignment of the discotic columns. For a columnar phase with 
face-on anchoring at the surface, a decrease in the surface free energy causes the discotic 
columns to tilt away from the normal to the substrate.  
ii) The anisotropic energetic character can be important factor which influences the 
way the molecules assembly 
A mechanical rubbing breaks the two-dimensional topographical uniformity of the 
polymer surface and causes changes in the surface free energy of the polymer thin films. 
The difference of surface free energies towards and against the rubbing direction 
respectively, i.e. the in-line anisotropy in surface free energy, strongly affects the 
molecular packing of a mesophase. A uniform molecular packing of rod-like molecules 
may be attainment if this in-line anisotropy of surface free energy is eliminated. 
iii) A proper surface modification may provide a surface with a desired surface 
energetic state 
A surface which is rubbed three times shows the smallest in-line energetic anisotropy, 
and can be used for producing uniform molecular packing. 
 
Suggestions for future work 
 We have learnt the effects of surface characteristics on the molecular stacking of the discotic 
molecules, and have an insight into the interfacial region of the discotic materials and solid surface 
system. We are now reaching the frontier in this research area. The knowledge about the surface 
characteristics of the substrates and the interfacial are very useful and helpful. Based on the 
achievements, we will be moving on to carried out following studies, which form the main work 
for the next phase research. 
i. Modify surfaces for achieving desired anchoring of discotic molecules. The surface 
 8
of discotic liquid crystal in columnar mesophases, Proc. Of SPIE, Vol. 6587, 658719-1 
(2007). 
[12] W. Zheng, C.-Y. Chiang, C.-W. Ong, Effect of surface free energy on stacking of discotic 
molecules in the columnar phase, Proc. Asia Display 07, pp 1766-1771. 
[13] W. Zheng, C. Lu, Y. Yeh, and Y. Tien,  Anisotropy of surface free energy of rubbed 
polyimide thin films, AsiaDisplay 07, Shanghai, China. 
 
 
VII. Self assessment  
1. We are the people who first show anisotropy in surface wettability of rubbed polyimide 
thin film. This achievement can provide very useful knowledge for the elucidation of 
molecular alignment mechanisms for liquid crystals. One paper has been published, and 
another manuscript is preparating. 
2. We propose a new concept of “in-line anisotropy” for analysing surface energetic state of 
molecular alignment layers. This might become a useful parameter for the attainment of a 
uniform molecular packing towards defect free smectic liquid crystal layers. One paper 
has been published, one manuscript has been accepted for publishing, another manuscript 
is writing up. 
3. We observed the surface free energy of the substrate on the columnar phase alignment, 
and revealed the relation between the energetic character and the tilt of the discotic 
columns. This allows us to move one step forward to the control of alignment of discotic 
materials in the columnar phase. One paper is in printing. One manuscript has been 
submitted, and another one manuscript is writing up. 
In summary, 5 SCI journal papers have been published, another 3 manuscripts based on the 
work within the current research frame has been submitted. We expect that 8~10 SCI papers, all 
together, will be published under the three years’ project. 
 
 
 10
會資助下在液晶顯示相關的表面研究及碟狀分子配向等方面所進行的研究所取得的成
果.  
 表面反射異向性光譜
(RAS) 是一種非常有用的無
損傷表面探測技術。該技術可
通過對經由表面反射的光譜
中的不同極化態的光波的差
異的分析﹐提供達到分子尺度
的淺表層的訊息。特別適合應
用於液晶顯示器的生產過程
和基礎研究。我們向研討會展
示了將 RAS 應用到液晶顯示
技術的可能性和初步成果。通
過將 RAS 與液晶器件的某些
參數相關聯﹐有可能使 RAS 得
以用于液晶顯示技術的研究與開發。作為第一步﹐我們從將 RAS 與液晶分子預傾角相
關聯切入﹐以圖取得初步認識﹐實施更深入的探討。 
 
研討會主席﹐云南師範大學黃教授。 
 同時﹐我們也向研討會報告了我們在碟狀分子配向的最新進展﹕改變基板表面能對
碟狀分子堆集的作用﹐及由此對碟狀分子組裝的有序度進行控制的可能方法。對碟狀分
子材料進行配向是當今最大的技術難題之一。我們是少數幾個在此方向進行研究的團隊
之一。我們向與會代表展示了碟狀分子柱可以隨基板表面能變化而改變其與表面之傾
角。此項研究對控制碟狀分子的堆疊有很大的參考意義。 
 會議期間, 我們與來自美國, 英﹐法等歐美國家﹐以及日本, 韓國,香港和大陸的
學者就共同感興趣的領域和研究主題進行交流和深入探討, 獲益斐然.   
 除學術活動外, 大會東道還刻意安排一次半天的云南文化觀光﹐使我們得以了解古
大理國的歷史文化遺產以及時下云南民俗風彩.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
大型云南少數民族歌舞 
 
 2
