has been performed by: contacting melted
polymer with catalyst in fixed bed reactors, heating
mixtures of polymer and catalyst powders in
reaction vessels, and passing the products of
polymer pyrolysis through reactors containing
cracking catalysts. For those studies in which the
polymer was placed in direct contract with
catalysts, it has been reported that the catalyst to
polymer ratio has an effect on the relative
abundance of the volatile products. In order to
compare the polymer cracking properties of
different catalysts, it is preferable to examine the
effects of catalysts without complications due to
reactions of primary cracking products with
un-reacted polymer. This can be approach by
using high catalyst-to-polymer ratios and providing
efficient and rapid removal of volatile products.
Thus, a laboratory fluidised bed reactor has been
successfully designed in our group to study further
catalytic cracking for polymer recycling by limiting
the contact between primary volatile products and
the catalyst/polymer mixture [1-3]. This paper
describes the use of this specially developed
reactor to study product distributions arising from
the reaction of different polymers with
acidic-based catalysts. Also, a novel model for
catalytic degradation of polymer has been
investigated to describe the results and to provide
a basis for optimising the potential benefit of
catalytic polymer recycling.
2. Experimental
The polymers used were pure high density
polyethylene (HDPE) and pure polypropylene
(PP). Both HDPE and PP were pyrolysed over
zeolites (HUSY, HZSM-5, and Mordenite) and
silicalite (Si/Al >1000) containing very few or no
catalytically active sites. Prior to use, all the
catalysts were pelleted, crushed and sieved to
give appropriate particle sizes, and then activated
by heating in the reactor in flowing nitrogen. A
detailed description of the experimental system is
given in elsewhere [4]. Gaseous products were
analysed using a gas chromatograph equipped
with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and a
flame ionisation detector (FID). The products are
divided into 4 groups; C1-C4 light gases, C5-C9
gasoline, liquid and residue yields. The amount
and nature of the residues was determined by
thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) as described
elsewhere [5]. The experimental data are obtained
on 10 minute average gas samples from catalytic
runs using the standard conditions of 360oC,
fluidising flow rate of 570 cm3 min-1,
polymer:catalyst ratio of 0.4:1 and catalyst particle
sizes of 125-180 µm.
3. Results and discussion
Table 1 summarise the products of HDPE and
PP degradation over various zeolites and silicalite.
The yield of volatile hydrocarbons for zeolite
catalysts (HZSM-5 > H-USYHMOR) was much
higher than for silicalite where the highest yield
(nearly 95 wt%) was obtained for HZSM-5
compared to silicalite (5 wt%). Overall, the bulk of
the products observed with zeolites were in the
gas phase (>85 wt%) with only 2-5 wt % liquid
collected. The highest level of BTX were observed
with HZSM-5, whilst the highest coke yields were
observed with the two 12R zeolites, MOR and
HUSY. The differences in the product distributions
between the zeolites can be seen with USY
producing a wider molecular weight range than
HZSM-5 and MOR.
