studies including the structure of emotional 
responses and Kansei Engineering were varied both in 
number and adjectives they used. Therefore, present 
study tried to use systematically scientific 
approaches to find out typical affective meanings 
which could represent all the affective meanings for 
the interactive studies both on finding structures of 
emotional responses and Kansei Engineering for 
Chinese-speaking users.      
Over 628 adjectives were collected from several 
resources including studies related to emotional 
responses and Kansei Engineering, and websites.  
Semantic differential approaches were used to rate 16 
windows media player skins with the 298 words. Next, 
Item analysis was used to remove the affec-tive 
meanings with low discrimination.  The results showed 
that 85 words were removed, and 213 words remained.  
Fur-thermore, Factor analysis was performed to reduce 
the num-ber of affective meanings by discovering the 
words with simi-lar response patterns.  The outcomes 
showed forty-two typi-cal affective meanings which 
represented the main factors after Factor analysis.  
These typical affective meanings were suggested as 
the affective meanings to describe interactive 
products. 
 
英文關鍵詞： affective meaning, interactive products, skins 
 
 2 
螢幕介面之情感語意量表之設計 
Investigating the Typical Affective Meanings influencing Interactivity of In-
teractive Products for Chinese-Speaking Users 
 
  
 
ABSTRACT 
The purpose of this paper was to find out the typical affec-
tive meanings for interactive products for Chinese-speaking 
users. The affective meanings are affective adjectives evoked 
from interactive products.  They are used to investigate the 
structure of emotional responses to objects, or applied to 
Kansei engineering to establish the connection between 
physical property spaces and semantic spaces.  However, the 
affective meanings used in previous studies including the 
structure of emotional responses and Kansei Engineering 
were varied both in number and adjectives they used. There-
fore, present study tried to use systematically scientific ap-
proaches to find out typical affective meanings which could 
represent all the affective meanings for the interactive studies 
both on finding structures of emotional responses and Kansei 
Engineering for Chinese-speaking users.      
Over 628 adjectives were collected from several resources 
including studies related to emotional responses and Kansei 
Engineering, and websites.  Semantic differential approaches 
were used to rate 16 windows media player skins with the 
298 words. Next, Item analysis was used to remove the af-
fective meanings with low discrimination.  The results 
showed that 85 words were removed, and 213 words re-
mained.  Furthermore, Factor analysis was performed to re-
duce the number of affective meanings by discovering the 
words with similar response patterns.  The outcomes showed 
forty-two typical affective meanings which represented the 
main factors after Factor analysis.  These typical affective 
meanings were suggested as the affective meanings to de-
scribe interactive products. 
 
Keywords: affective meaning, interactive products, skins 
1. INTRODUCTION 
It is impossible to act or think without engaging emotions for 
humans (Mehrabian & Russell, 1974). Emotions are the heart 
of human experience and affect how we plan to interact with 
products (Forlizzi and Battarbee, 2004). Besides, the affec-
tive states also have significant impact on user behaviors 
when they use an interactive product (Kalbach, 2006; Ethier 
et al. 2008). That is, the emotion, such as pleasure or plain, 
felt in any given moment, influences whether the users go on 
with their current activity, whether they cancel it or whether 
they will never do it again (Kahneman’s, 1999; Hassenzahl, 
Diefenbach and Goritz, 2010).  Therefore, the topic of emo-
tion in HCI has attracted increased research attention (Brave, 
and Nass, 2002).  Previous studies showed that emotion had 
significant influences on perceived usability of interfaces of 
Human-computer interactions.  Positive emotions would 
facilitate the product usability; negative emotions would de-
grade it.  For example, enjoyment, a positive emotion, would 
have a positive effect on ease of use when participants’ use a 
class management system via the Internet (Yi and Hwang, 
2003); however, computer anxiety, a negative affective reac-
tion toward computer use, has been shown to have a negative 
influence on the perceived ease of use of a new system 
(Venkatesh, 2000).  Therefore, interactive products have to 
afford users’ positive emotions to attract users and promote 
product usability. 
1.1 Affective Meanings in Emotional Design and 
Kansei Engineering 
1.1.1. Core affect 
The emotion mentioned above refers to core affect. Core 
affect is what is commonly called a feeling. It is a neuro-
physiologic state that is consciously accessible as a simple, 
nonreflective feeling (Rusell, 2003).  A person always has 
core effect.  His core effect influences the usability of hu-
man-computer interaction or changes his behaviors on the 
web.  Therefore, an interactive interface which can elicit 
users’ good feelings, or positive core affects, would facilitate 
its usability and increase their performance.   
A core effect is a single blend of two dimensions: valence 
and arousal dimensions (Rusell, 2003).  The valence (pleas-
ure/unpleasure) dimension refers to the feeling which is an 
assessment of one’s current condition; the arousal dimension 
refers to the one which is one’s sense of mobilization and 
energy (Rusell, 2003). These two dimensions could be meas-
ured with neurophysiologic responses.  For example, Lang 
and Greenwald (1988) manipulated emotional states with 
IAPS (international affective picture system) slides and re-
ported that skin conductance response covaried primarily 
with rated picture arousal and that facial muscle responses 
(such as corrugators and zygominator) covaried primarily 
with rated picture valence. Rusell (2003) believed that the 
core affects, such as elated, upset and depressed, are the out-
comes of blending the two emotional dimensions, valence 
and arousal dimensions.  However, as mentioned above, core 
affect is a nonreflective feeling. If core affect would be de-
scribed with words, it would not be a “nonreflective” re-
sponse, but would be a reflective cognitive response.  There-
fore, due to the nonreflective response, human would have 
difficulties to precisely describe his core affects with words.  
However, the neurophysiologic responses, such as skin con-
ductance responses and facial muscle EMG responses could 
 4 
Engineering, designers endeavor to afford different affective 
meanings for products to please different users.  To find out 
the design properties correctly reflecting the affective mean-
ings the users want, designer needs a database to store the 
connections between affective meanings.  To build up a com-
plete database, affective meanings should be collected thor-
ough.  Likewise, there are a large amount of affective mean-
ings being able to describe objects emotionally.  It is impor-
tant to find out the typical affective meanings which have 
significant impact on user emotion for interactive products.  
Hence, the purpose of this paper is to find out the typical 
affective meanings by reducing the amount of affective 
meanings by integrating identical affective meanings. 
1.2. Studies Related to Affective Meaning 
The affective meanings are collects and used to rate prod-
uct’s affect in Kansei Engineering.  Previous studies in prod-
uct Kansei claimed that the affective meanings in their stud-
ies were collected from specialized journals, catalogues and 
websites.  Next, they deleted the affective meanings which 
were not suitable to evaluate the products, objects of their 
studies. Afterward, they condensed affective meanings with 
some conceptual affinity and remove the less significant af-
fective meanings.   
However, the affective meanings used in previous Kansei 
engineering studies were varied both in number and scales 
they used.  Some studies only used eight affective meanings 
to build up their semantic space; some used the adjectives 
over two hundred, especially for the studies written in Chi-
nese.  Those authors chose the affective meanings by their 
own ways.  These sampling procedures of affective mean-
ings may not include entirely diversity of the semantic do-
main. Therefore, the final structures might be not suitable.  
Besides, the affective meanings were collected and factor-
ized in order to find out the structure of affective meanings 
in previous research.  For example, Osgood and his collages 
aim to find out the structures of affective meanings by judg-
ing the meanings of a representative sample of concepts.  
Most of these concepts are nouns. They chose 289 contras-
tive adjective pairs from categories in Roget’s Thesaurus.  
Then, 76 pairs were finally retained by considering their fre-
quency of usage or familiarity.  By Factor analysis, they find 
the three factors, evaluation, activity and potency, are typical 
of all the analyses they have done using a broad sample of 
concepts.  “An evaluative factor, which they identify as atti-
tudinal component of meaning, is characterized by affect 
scales like good-bad, pleasant-unpleasant, and positive-
negative; what they call a potency factor, orthogonal to 
evaluation, is characterized by scales like strong-weak, 
heavy-light, and hard-soft; what they call the activity factor, 
independent of both evaluation and potency, is characterized 
by scales like fast-slow, active-passive, and excitable-calm” 
(Osgood, 1962, pp. 11-12).  Osgood (1962, 1975) also con-
cern the generality of the semantic factor system.  After re-
viewing previous studies and their own works, he finds this 
factor system does seem quite stable across people but quite 
unstable across concept classes.  That is, the E-P-A structure 
of affective meanings does not exist when the concepts are 
changed.  For example, the three-factor space collapsed into 
two (Benevolence and Dynamism) when the political con-
cepts are rated.  When interactive products are rated against 
these affective meanings, the affect structures may be not the 
same as the E-P-A structure of affective meanings because 
the rated concepts, i.e. interactive products here, are not 
those concepts rated in previous studies.  Hence, it is neces-
sary to redo the ratings of interactive products against affec-
tive meanings to find out the structures of affective meanings 
for interface products. 
2. Methods 
The purpose of this paper is to find out the typical affective 
meanings to represent all the affective meanings for Chinese-
speaking users.  The paper grouped the collected affective 
meanings in light of similarity of these affective meanings 
and selected a typical affective adjective from the group to 
represent all the affective meanings in the group.  In this way, 
the number of affective meanings collected is reduced.  For 
example, if many subjects agree that affective qualities of 
interface A may be good, nice and gentle and that affective 
qualities of interface B may be good, nice and rough, it may 
be inferred that the affective meanings exhibit more similar-
ity between good and nice than between each of these terms 
and gentle.  In this situation, “good”, or “nice”, will be se-
lected as the typical affective meanings for the group includ-
ing “good” and “nice”.  We may extend this approach to a 
large list of product interfaces and affective meanings and 
allow gradations of degree of intensity of affective meanings, 
such as extremely good and slightly good, i.e., we utilize 
Semantic Differential techniques.  The degree to which sub-
jects rate the affective meanings of product interfaces could 
establish the degree of correlation between those affective 
meanings.  In this situation, Factor analysis will be employed 
to exam the degree of correlation between those affective 
meanings. The affect meanings with high correlation be-
tween them are classified into one group by Factor analysis.   
2.1 Selection of Adjective Pairs 
There were several steps to collect Chinese affective mean-
ings.  The first step was to collect sufficient and efficacious 
affective meanings as complete as possible. The adjectives 
which refer to the affective meanings in this study in Chinese 
were collected from several resources including studies re-
lated to emotional responses and Kansei Engineering in jour-
nals, catalogues, books and websites. For example, the au-
thor collected the affective meanings form master theses and 
dissertations form 1990 to 2010 in Taiwan.  Besides, the 
affective meanings described for color indexes, or color 
schemes, in books (e.g., Color Index written by Krause, 2002, 
and The Color for Designer written by Younglin.com) or in 
websites (e.g., http://print100.com/hk/ html/csi.aspx) were 
collected.   These adjectives not written in Chinese were 
translated into Traditional Chinese.  Finally, there are 628 
affective meanings collected.  
 6 
Item analysis was used to discard the affective meanings 
which cannot distinguish subject affects evoked from skins 
with six criteria. First, the three criteria, Mean, Variance and 
skewness of each affective meaning were calculated to select 
the adjective pairs whose means are between 1 and -1, Vari-
ance>0.1.5, or Skewness<0.7.  The other unselected adjec-
tive pairs were marked with color shown in Table 1.   
Next, Correlation of Internal Consistency (CR) was per-
formed. The 256 rating scores were arranged from low to 
high for each adjective pair, and were divided into four 
groups. The group with the higher score than other groups 
was called High Score Group (HSG); the group with the 
lower score than other groups was called Low Score Group 
(LSG).  Then, t-test was used to test both groups for each 
adjective pair with a significant level, 0.01.  The adjective 
pairs whose rating scores of HSG significantly differed from 
those of LSG could discriminate Raters’ opinions signifi-
cantly and were selected. The other unselected adjective 
pairs were marked with color shown in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. Six items  for item analysis in the present study 
 
Note:  
a. The criteria for selecting adjectives, i.e., affective meanings, are 
following: 
1. The mean of the adjectives is larger than 1.0 or less than -1.0. 
2. The variance of the adjectives is larger than 1.5.  
3. The skewness of the adjectives is less than 0.7. 
4. The Top-bottom score group test for the adjectives is signifi-
cant (p. value <0.05). 
5. The item-to-total-score correlation for the adjectives is larger 
than 0.3. 
6. The factor loading for the adjectives after performing Factor 
Analysis is larger than 0.3. 
b. The adjectives are deleted when they have three or more items 
that do not satisfy the criteria above. 
 
Besides, the two criteria, item-to-total-score correlations and 
factor loadings of factor analysis, were calculated.  The ad-
jective pairs whose item-to-total-score correlations or factor 
loadings are lager than 0.3 were selected.  The other unse-
lected adjective pairs were marked with color shown in Ta-
ble 1. Besides, item-to-total-score correlation and Factor 
loading of affective meanings were calculated, and the adjec-
tive pairs whose item-to-total-score correlation, or Factor 
loading large than 0.3 were selected.  The other unselected 
adjective pairs were marked with color shown in Table 1. 
Finally, the adjective pairs were discarded when three of six 
item criteria (Mean, Variance, skewness, Correlation of In-
ternal Consistency, item-to-total-score correlation and Factor 
loading) were marked with color.  Finally, 85 adjective pairs 
were removed and 213 adjective pairs were remained.    
2.5.2 Factor Analysis  
Furthermore, Factor analysis with Principle component 
analysis was performed to reduce the number of affective 
meanings by discovering the adjectives with similar response 
patterns.  The adjective pair whose factor loading is above 
0.45 on one component factor is assigned to the Factor.  
Each component factor was named in light of the meanings 
of the adjective pairs in it.  These named component factors 
were typical affective meanings in present study and were 
suggested as the affective meanings to describe interactive 
products. 
3. Results and Discussions 
The 213 adjective pairs were analyzed with Principle Com-
ponent Analysis.  The results showed 42 Component Factors 
whose eigenvalues were larger than 1. However, Kaiser-
Meyer-olkin measure of sampling adequacy which was 0.703 
showed that the Principle component analysis was not well 
conducted. Besides, the orthogonal rotation failed to con-
verge in 25 iterations (Convergence=1.249) when Varimax 
rotation was performed.  It is possible that there were 213 
variables for Factor analysis but the amount of observations 
(i.e., “Rater”) were only 256 which were not sufficient to 
attend a convergent result when Factor analysis was per-
formed.  Therefore, the 213 adjective pairs were divided into 
three groups in light of the outcome of the Factor analysis.  
Group G1 included 86 adjective pairs whose factor loadings 
on Factor I were larger than 0.45.  Group G2 included 47 
adjective pairs whose factor loadings on Factor II, Factor III 
or Factor IV were larger than 0.45.  The other 80 adjective 
pairs whose loadings on all the other Factors were less than 
0.45 were included in G3.  The adjective pairs in G1, G2 and 
G3 were performed Principle Component Analysis again, 
respectively.  
3.1 Eleven Components extracted from Group G1 
When 86 adjective pairs in Group G1 were used as variables 
in performing Principle component analysis, the orthogonal 
rotation converged in 77 iterations when Varimax rotation 
was performed.  Thirteen Component Factors were extracted.  
However, there were only 47 adjective pairs whose factor 
loadings on Factor I, II or III were larger 0.45; the other 39 
adjective pairs whose those were less than 0.45 on all com-
ponent factors.  It may be that 86 variables were still to large 
to perform Factor analysis.  Hence, the adjective pairs in 
Group G1 were divided into two groups: G1a and G1b.  
Group G1a included 47 adjective pairs whose factor loadings 
on Factor I, II or III were larger 0.45; Group G1b included 
the other 39 adjective pairs. 
 8 
were only 256 which were not sufficient for 80 variables to 
attend a convergent result when Factor analysis was per-
formed.   
 
Table 4: Eight factors extracted from Group G2 
 
 
Besides, among 80 adjective pairs, there were only 37 adjec-
tive pairs whose factor loadings on Factor I, II… or VII were 
larger 0.45; the other 43 adjective pairs whose factor load-
ings on all other Factor were less than 0.45. Therefore, the 
80 adjective pairs were divided into two groups: G3a and 
G3b. Group G3a included 37 adjective pairs whose factor 
loadings on Factor I, II… or VII were larger 0.45; Group 
G3b included the other 43 adjective pairs. 
3.3.1 Group G3a 
Furthermore, the 37 adjective pairs in G3a were used as vari-
ables in performing Principle component analysis with Vari-
max rotation, and nine component factors were extracted as 
shown in Table 5. Both Kaiser-Meyer-olkin measure of sam-
pling adequacy (0.798) and Bartlett’s test of sphericity 
(3831.387, p<0.001; df=666) showed that the Principle com-
ponent analysis was well conducted.  In Table 5, the adjec-
tive pairs whose factor loadings on one Factor were larger 
0.45 were assigned to the Factor.  Therefore, Factor 1, 
named as “Wavy (波動的)”, included 8 adjective pairs; Fac-
tor 2, named as “Ruthless (嚴厲的)”, included 5 adjective 
pairs; Factor 3, named as “Agreeable (宜人的)”, included 6 
adjective pairs; Factor 4, named as “mysterious (神秘的)”, 
included 6 adjective pairs; Factor 5, named as “Congregated 
(聚集的)”, included 4 adjective pairs; Factor 6, named as 
“Independent (獨立的)”, included 2 adjective pairs; Factor 7, 
named as “Popular (大眾化的)”, included 2 adjective pairs. ; 
Factor 8, named as “Concave (凹凸的)”, included one adjec-
tive pair; Factor 9, named as “Cool (冷色調的)”, included 
one adjective pair. However, all the loading factors for the 
two adjective pairs, “Twisted (扭曲的)” and “Diverse (多樣
的)”, were lower than 0.45.  However, the loading factor for 
“Twisted (扭曲的)” on Factor 1 was larger than those on the 
others.  Hence, it was assigned to Factor 2 on Table 5. Like-
wise, “Diverse (多樣的)”, was assigned to Factor 3 because 
the loading factor for “Diverse (多樣的)” on Factor 3 was 
larger than those on the others. 
 
Table 5. Nine factors extracted from Group G3a 
 
3.3.2 Group G3b 
Finally, 43 adjective pairs in Group G3b were used to exe-
cute Principle component with Varimax rotations. The out-
comes showed 14 Component Factors extracted in Table 6. 
Kaiser-Meyer-olkin measure of sampling adequacy was 
0.697 and Bartlett’s test of sphericity was 3216.362 (p<0.001; 
df=903).  In Table 6, the adjective pairs whose factor load-
ings on one Factor were larger 0.45 were assigned to the 
Factor. Therefore, Factor 1, named as “Immobile (動的)”, 
included 6 adjective pairs; Factor 2, named as “Decorate (裝
飾的)”, included 2 adjective pairs; Factor 3, named as “Su-
pernatural (超自然的)”, included 3 adjective pairs; Factor 4, 
named as “crowed (擁擠的)”, included 3 adjective pairs; 
Factor 5, named as “Gradation (有層次的)”, included 3 ad-
jective pairs; Factor 6, named as “Cultured (有教養的)”, 
included 3 adjective pairs; Factor 7, named as “Feminine (嫵
媚的)”, included 3 adjective pairs; Factor 8, named as “Civi-
lized (文明的)”, included 3 adjective pairs; Factor 9, named 
as “Organic (有機體的)”, included 3 adjective pairs; Factor 
10, named as “Passionate (融洽的)”, included 3 adjective 
pairs; Factor 11, named as “Suspended (懸空的)”, included 
one adjective pair; Factor 12, named as “Active (積極的)”, 
included one adjective pair; Factor 13, named as “American 
style (美國的 )”, included one adjective pair; Factor 14, 
named as “Concise (簡潔的)”, included one adjective pair.  
However, the seven adjective pairs, “bold (大膽的 )”, , 
“Transferable (轉換的)”, , “bionic (仿生的)”,, “Upright (豎
起的)”,, “Ascent (上升的)”,, “Rich (豐潤的)”, and “Roman-
tic (浪漫的)” whose loading was lower than 0.45 on all 
 10 
these skins were classified as “Techie” in the Microsoft Me-
dia Player official website.  
The skins in Factor 2 were name “Movie” because they pre-
sented the characters in famous movies when subjects inter-
acted with them.  Most of these skins were classified as 
“Movie” in the Microsoft Media Player official website. The 
skins in Factor 3 were name “Traditional” because they gave 
subjects a feeling of old fashion.  Most of these skins were 
classified as “Game” in the Microsoft Media Player official 
website. The skins in Factor 4 were name “Fun” because 
they aroused subjects a feeling of fun.  Most of these skins 
were classified as “Fun” in the Microsoft Media Player offi-
cial website.  Basically, the structure from Factor analysis is 
mapped with the classification made by Microsoft Media 
Player official website. 
 
Table 8. Four component factors extracted from 16 skins 
 
3.7 Scales of Affective Quality 
The 42 typical affective meanings were the possible affective 
qualities elicited from interactive products.  The 42 typical 
affective meanings were extracted from 296 adjective pairs 
with Principle Component Analysis. The 296 adjective pairs 
with high similarity on subjects’ responses on 16 media 
player skins were grouped into one component factors. In 
this way, the 296 affective meanings collected were con-
densed into 42.  Therefore, the 42 typical affective meanings 
can be applied to present the affective quality evoked from 
the skins.  In other words, the 42 typical affective meanings 
are the scales to measure the affective qualities evoked from 
interactive products. 
PUBLICATION 
This research has been accepted for oral presentation by 
2012 First International Conference on Information, Com-
munication and Engineering (ICICE 2012) which will be 
hold on Fuzhou, China on December 15-20, 2012.  The ac-
cepted coded number is 1712. 
REFERENCES 
Brave, S. and Nass, C. (2002) Emotion in human-computer 
interaction. In J. Jacko & A. Sears (Eds.), Handbook of hu-
man-computer interaction, Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 
251-271. 
Ethier, J., Hadaya, P., Talbot, J., and Cadieux, J. (2008) In-
terface design and emotions experienced on B2C Web sites: 
Empirical testing of a research model, Computers in Human 
Behavior, 24, 2771– 2791. 
Hassenzahl, M., Diefenbach, S., Goritz, A. (2010) Needs, 
affect, and interactive products - Facets of user experience, 
Interacting with Computers, 22, pp. 353-362  
Kalbach, J. (2006) “I'm feeling lucky”: The role of emotions 
in seeking information on the Web, Journal of the American 
Society for Information Science and Technology, April, 57 
(6) 
Kahneman, D., 1999. Objective happiness. In: Kahneman, D., 
Diener, E., Schwarz, N. (Eds.), Well-Being: The Founda-
tions of Hedonic Quality. Sage, New York, pp. 3– 25. 
Khalid, H. M. “Embracing diversity in user needs for affec-
tive design,” Applied Ergonomics, vol. 37, no. 4, pp.409-418, 
Jul. 2006. 
Krause, J., 2002. Color Index. Ohio: HOW Design Books. 
Mehrabian, A., & Russell, J.A. An approach to environ-
mental psychology. M.I.T. Press, Cambridge, MA, USA, 
1974. 
Osgood, Charles E (1962) Studies on the generality of affec-
tive meaning systems, American Psychologist, Volume: 17 
(1), pp. 10-28. 
Osgood, C. E., May, W. H., Miron, M. S. (1975) Cross-
Cultural Universals of Affective Meaning, University of Illi-
nois Press. 
Zhang, P., Li, N. (2005) The importance of affective quality, 
Commun. of the ACM, 48 (9), pp.105-108. 
Russell, J. A., Pratt, G. (1980) A Description of the Affective 
Quality Attributed to Environments, Journal of Personality 
and Social Psychology, 1980, 38 (2), pp. 311-322. 
Russell, J. A. (2003) Core affect and the psychological con-
struction of emotion, Psychology Review, 110 (1), pp. 145-
172. 
Venkatesh, V. (2000) Determinants of Perceived Ease of Use: 
Integrating Control, Intrinsic Motivation, and Emotion into 
the Technology Acceptance Model, Information Systems 
Research, 11 (4), December, pp. 342– 365 
Yi, M. Y. and Hwang, Y. (2003) Predicting the use Web-
based information system: self-efficacy, enjoyment, learning 
goal orientation, and the technology acceptance model, Int. J. 
Human-Computer Studies, 59 pp. 431– 449 
Younglim.com (2007) The Color for Design (in Traditional 
Chinese), Taiwan: DrMaster Press Co., Ltd. 
Zhang, P. and Li, Na (2005). The importance of affective 
quality, Communications of the ACM, 48(9), pp. 105-108.
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100年 12 月 3 日 
一、參加會議經過 
本人從 ACM digital library索引了一些文章，品質不差，因此，一直認為美國 ACM
研討會是具有高水準的研討會。因此今年度本人原本預計參加美國 ACM 研討會，但
是國科會所核訂的金額嚴重縮水，於是只好放棄參加 ACM 的計畫。不過，本人由 IEEE
的網站搜尋國際研討會時，發現 i-USEr 2011 亦是和本人研究領域相同且發表論文
將被收錄在 EI索引的資料庫中，並且由 IEEE 所主辦。應是一個不錯的研討會。因
此，放棄參加 ACM 所舉辦的研討會，改參加 IEEE 所舉辦的 i-USEr 2011 研討會。 
此次 i-USEr 2011 是由 UiTM (Universiti Teknologi MARA)大學所主辦，由 11 月
29 日至 12 月 2 日共四天。第一天是博士論文發表，第二天和第第三天是大會主題
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221－E－150－081 
計畫名稱 螢幕介面之情感語意量表之設計 
出國人員
姓名 黃室苗 
服務機構
及職稱 國立虎尾科技大學 副教授 
會議時間 100年 11 月 29 日至 100年 12 月 2 日 會議地點 馬來西亞 吉隆坡 
會議名稱 
(中文)第二屆使用者科學和工程國際研討會 
(英文) 2nd International conference on User science and Engineering 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 情感語意的強度和喜好度對配色美感判斷的影響 
(英文)Effects of Affective Meanings and Their Strength on Judgment of Beauty for 
Icon Color Combinations 
 
 3
二、與會心得 
整體而言，本研討會是成功的，值得再次參與。本人覺得這次的研討會是成功的。
我的評價依據如下： 
1. 場內討論熱烈，無冷場。 
2. 論文主題引起本人的與趣，且認識許多同好。 
3. 參與人士自動進入會場，無須有人廣播催促進入會場。即想參與的人就自動進入
發表廳，不想加入的人可以在外面吃東西，和人聊天，交換心得。  
研討會之所以成功的理由 
1. 嚴格篩選與會人士有興趣的論文。 
 華人所辦的研討會，一直有個迷失，就是怕場面冷清，論文數不夠，會沒有面子，
於是大量收錄投稿論文。這樣的結果是，很多不是令人有興趣的論文也在會中發表，
於是台下的人參與度不高，無法給台上的人一些意見和看法；台上的人也無法有自
信的將自己的研究成果介紹給台下的觀眾。結果是場面的人是多了一點，但實質上
的收獲却不大，只是流於形式的大拜拜，對學術的交流和合作有限。 
 但 i-USEr 2011 則和華人的觀點不同，不必在乎參與論文的數量，而是實質的收
益，雖然論文數量少，會場人數不夠壯觀，但因為參與者的研究興趣較為一致，大
家的共同語言較多，可以談論的話題也多，因此學術領域的告發也較多。 
2. 沒有動員學生參與聆聽論文表 
 在台灣或華人所辦的研討會，深怕場面冷清，沒有面子，於是大量要求學生到場
聆聽，不論學生是否有興趣，於是台上賣力介紹，台下各做各的，品質或成效不彰。
當然就不會有專業的討論。然而這次參加的人都很自發，不論是研討會場還是博士
 5
業、健康到教育、社區到政府。主題不錯，但是如何和人們未來的介面結合，似乎
也是流於空談。這些皆是此次研討會較為不足之處。 
三、建議 
1. 建議從事使用者工程研究相關領域的學者可以參加本研討會，將會有許多研究的
啓發。  
2. 未來在舉辦研討會時，重視量少質精的會議品質，可能比量多質粗的研討會來得
佳。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 1. CD-ROM 一張。 
 2. 發表証明書一張。 
  
 
Reference : 500 – FSKM (PT 36/2/1/1) 
Date  : 29
th
 September 2011 
 
 
Shih-Miao Huang, 
National Formosa University, 
Taiwan. 
 
Sir/Madam, 
 
NOTIFICATION TO SUBMIT FULL PAPER, REGISTRATION AND COPYRIGHT DECLARATION FORM 
FOR THE INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON USER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING 2011 (i-USEr 2011)  
 
We are pleased to inform you that your paper ID: 6, Title: Effects of Affective Meanings and Their Strength 
on Judgment of Beauty for Icon Color Combinations has been accepted for oral presentation. 
 
However, your paper will only be published in the conference proceeding by ensuring the following 
requirements are fulfilled: 
 
1. You are registered as a paper presenter latest by 17
th
 October 2011 at the rate of RM 1200 (local) 
or USD 450 (International) presenter (per paper). We would like you to formally register and make 
full payment the latest by 17
th
 October 2011. Kindly register online via 
http://iuserconference.org/registration.php. In addition, please submit ‘proof of payment’ (scanned 
copy of payment document) to i-user2011@tmsk.uitm.edu.my. Kindly be reminded that the 
registration will only be processed after we have received this ‘proof of payment’ 
document.   
 
2. You performed necessary modifications on the submitted paper as suggested by the reviewers. 
 
3. The final camera ready paper should follow the IEEE format as instructed in i-user 2011 website; 
http://iuserconference.org/camera.php. There will also be specific instructions in the website to 
check your camera ready file by using IEEE PDF eXpress site. After using the IEEE PDF eXpress, 
please submit your camera ready file in IEEE Xplore®-compatible PDF and also in MS Word by 
17
th
 October 2011 to i-user2011@tmsk.uitm.edu.my with your paper ID in the e-mail’s subject. 
 
4.  Completing the Copyright Declaration Form as attached and scanned and send via email with 
your camera ready in IEEE Xplore®-compatible PDF and MS Word file to the i-USEr 2010 
secretariat email i-user2011@tmsk.uitm.edu.my by 17
th
 October 2011.  
 
For other inquiries, please contact the secretariat (Nurzeatul Hamimah Abd Hamid) at +603-5521 1153 or 
i-user2011@tmsk.uitm.edu.my or nurzeatul@tmsk.uitm.edu.my . 
  
Thank you. 
 
 
Regards, 
 
 
NOR LAILA MD NOR 
Conference General Chair  
i-USEr’ 2011 
 
Faculty of Computer and Mathematical Sciences 
www.uitm.edu.my 
Ilmu Untuk Beramal 
 
 
Universiti Teknologi MARA 
40450 Shah Alam, Selangor, MALAYSIA 
Tel: (+603) 5543 5329 
Faks:(+603) 5543 5501 
E-mel: dekan@tmsk.uitm.edu.my 
 
Fakulti  Sains Komputer dan 
Matematik 
2011 International Conference on User Science and Engineering (i-USEr) 
978-1-4577-1655-3/11/$26.00 © 2011 IEEE 1  
Effects of Affective Meanings and Their Strength on 
Judgment of Beauty for Icon Color Combinations 
 
Huang, Shih-Miao 
Mechanical Design Engineering department  
National Formosa University 
YunLin, Taiwan 
smhuang@nfu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—This study argued that the strength of affective 
meanings evoked from color combinations and subjects’ 
preferences of these affective meanings would sway subjects’ 
judgment of beauty for color combinations.  The adjective pairs 
with two opposite adjectives were deemed as affective meanings.  
By item analysis, 13 adjective pairs including a “Beautiful-Ugly” 
pair which was deemed as the scale to evaluate aesthetics of color 
combinations were recruited in the experiment.  Thirty-nine 
subjects rated the intensity of the adjective pairs (IM) which the 
40 color combinations presented and preference of the adjectives 
(PM).  The IM multiplied by PM was called IMP which referred 
to the interaction effects of IM and PM.  Regression analysis was 
conducted to test the effects of both IM and IMP on judgment of 
aesthetics of color combinations.  The score of “Beautiful-Ugly” 
pair was deemed as a dependent variable; IM and IMP as 
independent variables.  The outcomes showed that intensity of 
the affective meanings was an important factor influenced 
subject judgment of beauty of objects, but not subject 
preferences of the affective meanings. 
Keywords - affective meanings; aesthetic preferences; beauty; 
judgment of beauty; color combinations; semantic differential 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Aesthetic preference, which refers to “beauty” in this study, 
pertains to a sense of what is beautiful and visually pleasing 
[1].  The aesthetic preference of a product influences consumer 
attitudes and is a critical determinant of its marketplace success 
[2]. 
Some authors argued that physical design properties of an 
object determined beauty judgment of the object.  That is, the 
design approaches of form composition affect human judgment 
of beauty, such as order, proportion, symmetry, balance, unity, 
contrast, emphasis, pattern, movement and rhythm [1], [3], [4].  
Besides, Chen, Wu and Wu [5] also found that the subjects 
showed a similar preference for symmetric and repetitive 
patterns and slightly less preference for anti-symmetric 
patterns.  Palmer, Gardner and Wickens [6] also verified rule of 
third was useful approaches for photographers to create a 
beautiful picture.  In this view, any estimation of the beauty of 
a design is based on the physical properties of the objects and it 
seems that the facts external to it are not important on judgment 
of beauty. 
However, Huang found that the judgment of beauty was 
diverse among individuals for icon-background color 
combinations by using standard deviation of aesthetic ratings 
among subjects to evaluate rating consistencies of color 
combinations [7], [8].  The outcome implied that subjects’ 
aesthetic preferences for color combinations were not merely 
determined by the objects’ physical features. 
Therefore, some author believed that aesthetic judgment 
might be decided by typical aesthetic prototypes formed by 
human aesthetic experiences encountered before [9].  The 
prototypic exemplars provide stable sensory-perceptual-
emotional reference points for the processing of contiguous 
stimuli and would minimize information processing demands 
[10].  However, the audience’s aesthetic prototype would be 
changed after he is educated, or trained, to learn more the 
contents of the works.  Therefore, aesthetic prototypes might be 
changed by changes of arousal levels in views of arousal 
theory.  Audiences prefer objects which elicited their middle 
arousals.  Naïve audiences had a “middle complication” 
prototype.  Their “middle complication” prototype would be 
replaced with a “more complication” prototype when they were 
trained with complex High Art and became experienced 
audiences [11].  Consequently, the audience’s aesthetic 
prototype would be changed when his arousal level to the 
prototype changes after he is educated, or trained, to learn more  
contents of the works [11]. 
However, the arousal theory does not explain why 
audiences reject fake works, such as works by Meegeren, and 
accept ready-made works, such as “Fountain” by Duchamp 
[12].  In both cases, the aesthetic prototypes of audiences are 
not changed, and their arousal levels to the prototypes do not 
changed, either.  In these situations, the change of audience’s 
judgment of beauty is not because of the change of the 
aesthetic prototype resulting from the change of his arousal 
level, but because of his knowledge of the context of the 
objects.  Most works were not to be considered in isolation; 
and each of them had a history.  Human knowledge of the 
history of an object might alter the contents audience 
experienced [12].  That is, the meaning of objects changes for 
audiences because of their knowledge of the context of it.  In 
these situations, the aesthetic prototypes in audiences’ mind are 
not changed, but the objects’ connotative meanings presented 
to audiences are changed. 
This work is supported by National Science Council, Taiwan, Grant # 
NSC- 99-2221-E-150-058. (sponsors) 
3 
 
called Raters.  Besides, the adjective pairs were deemed as 
items rated by Raters.  Hence, the three factors were 
transformed into two factors: adjective pairs and Raters.  That 
is, 1560 raters (=39 subjects ×  40 color combinations) 
expressed their opinions by the scales of adjective pairs with a 
7-point Likert scale.  Therefore, there were 1560 ratings for 
each adjective pair. 
Next, the 1560 rating scores were arranged from low to 
high for each adjective pair, and were divided into four groups.  
The group with the highest IM score than other groups was 
called High Score Group (HSG); the group with the lowest IM 
score than other groups was called Low Score Group (LSG).  
Then, t-test was used to test the Correlation of Internal 
Consistency (CR) of both groups for each adjective pair with a 
significant level, 0.01.  The adjective pairs whose rating scores 
of HSG significantly differed from those of LSG can 
discriminate Raters’ opinions significantly and were selected. 
In this study, for conveniently naming these adjective pairs, 
the adjective on the right sight of each pair was used to name 
the affective meaning of this pair.  For example, the “Clean” 
was the name of the affective meaning to express the adjective 
pair, “Dirty-Clean”.  Finally, twelve adjective pairs were 
chosen: “Unity”, “Order”, and “Real”, “Smooth”, “Clean”, 
“Active”, “Upward”, “Legible”, “Passionate”, “Opened”, 
“Progressive”, and “Bright”.  These twelve adjective pairs were 
used as scales to measure subjects’ attitudes on color 
combinations.   
B. Subjects 
The effect of demographics and genders might be strongly 
influence the aesthetic preference.  Besides, human educational 
backgrounds would also result in the difference in aesthetic 
ratings.  This paper tries to explore the patterns of affective 
meanings influencing the judgment of aesthetics for those who 
have similar demographics and backgrounds.  Therefore, the 
subjects recruited in this study had similar social backgrounds 
and educational attainment.  Hence, 39 undergraduate students 
from the Department of Mechanical Design Engineering of 
National Formosa University at Taiwan were recruited to 
participate in the experiment, and were each paid NT$600 
(about US$20) for their participation.  Their mean age was 19.9 
yr. (SD=0.3).  All subjects reported normal ocular health and 
no clinically significant anomalies of accommodation.  Their 
color vision was tested by identifying numbers in the Test 
Table for Color Blindness published by Yu-Da Co. in Taiwan. 
Each subject’s visual acuity was also measured using VISION 
INSPECTOR T127 produced by the Fubio Medical Co.  All 
subjects had a visual acuity of 0.8 or better, and normal color 
vision. 
C. Materials and Equipments 
40 color combinations were randomly retrieved from 3306 
color combinations used by Huang [8] and displayed on the 
computer screen in the experiment.  Besides, 12 adjective pairs 
plus an additional "Ugly-Beautiful" pair were listed on a 
questionnaire.  The rating scores of the "Ugly-Beautiful" pair 
were denoted as the score of intensities of aesthetic preference 
(IA, Intensities of Aesthetic Preference).  There were 7 buttons 
scored -3 to 3 from left to right between adjective pairs.  If 
subjects believe that their feelings evoked from the presented 
color combination were closer to the adjective on the right side, 
they chose a button closer to the right adjective, and get higher 
positive score, vise versa.  A questionnaire with the twelve 
adjective pairs and a color combination randomly selected from 
the 40 color combinations was shown on a display.  There were 
40 questionnaires.  The display setting is shown on Fig. 2. 
These questionnaires were to elicit the strength of affective 
meanings (IM) evoked from color combinations.  Besides, 
another questionnaire with the twelve adjective pairs without 
"Ugly-Beautiful" pair was also shown on a display page as Fig. 
3.  The questionnaire was to elicit subjects’ subjective 
preferences for each affective meaning (PM) without 
presenting color combinations. 
The computer modeled as HP Workstation XW4200 was 
used to control the experiment procedure; and the experimental 
material is programmed with Director 8.0.  The ambient room 
luminance was about 43 lux at observers’ seats. 
D. Procedures 
The subjects had to fill 41 questionnaires shown on the 
screen: 40 questionnaires to rate the intensity of aesthetic 
preference  (IA)  and  the intensity of the twelve adjective pairs 
 
 
Figure 2. A questionnaire shown on a computer screen with a color 
combination and the twelve adjective pairs and one “Ugly-Beautiful” pair 
 
 
Figure 3. A questionnaire shown on a computer screen with the twelve 
adjective pairs to elicit subjects’ subjective preferences for each affective 
meaning (PM) 
5 
 
B. Rating Consistency of PM for All Affective Meanings 
Besides, the mean and standard deviation of PMs 
(subjective Preference of affective Meanings) for each affective 
meaning are calculated and shown on Table II.  Table II shows 
that “Clean” had higher mean (2.31) and lower standard 
deviation (0.89) than the other affective meanings.  It indicated 
that subjects highly consistently preferred “Clean” to the other 
adjective pairs.  Table II also shows that “Active” had lower 
mean (0.51) and higher standard deviation (1.97) than the other 
affective meanings.  It indicated that not all the subjects 
preferred the affective meaning, “Active”.  Comparing IM with 
PM, the study found that standard deviations of IM were larger 
than PM for most of adjective pairs, except “Unity”, “Active”, 
“Opened” and ”Bright”.  The PM of “Unity” was 1.63 which 
was larger than IM of “Unity” (1.50); The PM of “Active” was 
1.97 which was larger than IM of “Active” (1.39); The PM of 
“Opened” was 1.44 which was larger than IM of “Opened” 
(1.33); The PM of “Bright” was 1.71 which was larger than IM 
of “Bright” (1.29).  It indicated that subjects had high 
consistencies on the preference for most of affective meanings, 
but had low consistencies on strength judgment for the 
affective meanings evoked from objects. 
C. Effects of IM and PM on Beauty 
The outcomes found that subjects had inconsistent opinions on 
IM and PM evaluation.  Besides, they also had different 
opinions on judgment of aesthetic preferences.  Based on these 
evidences, it was possible that the judgment of aesthetics could 
be based on subjects’ preference of affective meanings and the 
strength of these affective meanings evoked from the color 
combinations.  Therefore, Regression analysis with stepwise 
selection was conducted.  IA was assigned as a dependent 
variable; IM and IMP as independent variables.  IMP was IM 
multiplied by PM.  That is, IMP referred to the interaction of 
intensity of affective meanings and subjects’ preference of the 
affective meanings.   
Table III showed a regression model with the summary of 
stepwise selection.  The model was selected because it had the 
lowest C(p) value (19.8719) and the highest R-square (0.5793) 
when the IMs of eight affective meanings entered the model.  
However, no IMPs of the affective meanings entered into the 
regression   model.    Therefore,   the   eight   IMs   of  affective  
TABLE II.  THE MEAN AND STANDARD DEVIATION OF PMS (SUBJECTIVE 
PREFERENCE OF AFFECTIVE MEANINGS) FOR EACH AFFECTIVE MEANING 
 
a.  The SD is the indicator of rating consistency. 
meanings were selected in the Regression model.  No IMP 
selected in the model indicated that the interaction of both IMs 
and PMs of the affective meanings did not influence subjects’ 
judgment of beauty.  It rejected the argument that judgment of 
beauty was decided by both the strength of affective meanings 
evoked from objects and subject preferences of these affective 
meanings. 
Besides, Table IV showed the parameter estimates of the 
intensities of eight affective meanings evoked from color 
combinations could significantly predict subjects’ judgment of 
aesthetic preferences.  These affective meanings were “Clean”, 
Smooth”, “Legible”, “Upward”, “Passionate”, “Order”, 
“Progressive” and “Unity”.  Therefore, intensity of the 
affective meanings was an important factor influenced subject 
judgment of beauty of objects, but subject preferences of the 
affective meanings (PM) did not influence their judgment of 
beauty. 
Why did subject preferences of the affective meanings 
(PM) not influence their judgment of beauty?  Huang [17] 
found that participants’ judgments of preferences for an object 
were different from their judgment of beauty of the object.  
That is to say, when one said he liked an object, it did not mean 
that he felt the object was beautiful.  This study asked subject 
to judge beauty of color combinations, but not asked them to 
rate their preferences.  Therefore, subjects judge objects’ 
beauty in light of  their  scales  of  beauty, not their individual 
preference. The outcomes showed the differences of both kinds 
of concept, beauty and preference. 
TABLE III.  THE SUMMARY OF STEPWISE SELECTION 
 
 
TABLE IV.  THE PARAMETER ESTIMATES OF THE INTENSITIES OF 
EIGHT AFFECTIVE MEANINGS EVOKED FROM COLOR COMBINATIONS 
 
a. These intensities of eight affective meanings significantly predicted subjects’ judgment of aesthetic 
preferences. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/07/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 螢幕介面之情感語意量表之設計
計畫主持人: 黃室苗
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-150-081- 學門領域: 人因工程與工業設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
