ii 
 
Contents 
 
Abstract iii 
1. State of the art of research 1 
2. Our own preparatory work 7 
3. Goals and working scheme 9 
4. Results and discussions 18 
5. Publication list 22 
Appendix A. Conference reports 25 
Appendix B. Published journal papers 67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 1 - 
 
1. State of the art of the research 
 
In the most general sense, a granular flow represents the flow of a large number of discrete solid 
particles with interstices filled with a fluid or a gas. However, in most flows involving the granules, 
the interstitial fluid plays an insignificant role in the transportation of momentum and thus flows 
of such materials can be considered dispersed single-phase rather than multiphase flows. Typical 
examples of granular flows are granular and snow avalanches associated with steep mountain 
areas, which can cause considerable personal injuries and property damages, when they enter the 
cultivated land or civilized inhabited regions. As an example is the suddenly released snow 
powder avalanche in North Italy in August 1998 which buried 5 tourists on the superhighway 
“Brennerautobahn”. On the contrary, a debris flow represents the gravity-driven flow of a 
cohesionless sand or a mixture of various sizes of sediment (from clay to boulders), water and air, 
down a steep slope, often initiated by heavy rainfall and/or landslides. The volume solids 
concentration in the front part of such a flow varies between about 30 and 65％, and generally 
decreases towards the rear. The flow depth is of the order of 1 to several meters, mean velocities 
may be as high as 15m/s, and channel gradients vary from about 40° in the starting zone to about 
3° in the deposition zone. These two are essentially geomorphological natural hazards which occur 
very often during summer time in Taiwan and can cause considerable personal injuries and 
property damages. It is urgent that their inception, motion and deposition properties be better 
understood in attempts to rationally understand their mechanisms, predict their potential impact 
and possibly avoid their occurrence. 
 
  Granular and debris flows can be divided into three distinct regimes: the starting zone, the 
traveling zone and the deposition zone, as shown in Fig. 1. Initiation of granular and debris flows 
is due to various causes: destabilisation of soil at mountain slopes due to loss of shear resistance 
by a growing ground water table, fluidisation of saturated soil by seismic activity, deforestation, 
etc. Uncertainties in estimations of granular and debris flow initiation are large; familiarity with 
the site of potential danger, historical knowledge and others still serve as the most reliable 
information to judge potential dangers of granular and debris flow releases. However, as the most 
recent events in October 2000 in Southern Switzerland and Northwest Italy have shown, such 
catastrophic events occur unpredictably and consequently are accompanied with devastating 
effects. It is not likely that the causes of the initiation of granular and debris flows and landslides 
be much better understood in the near future, at least not to the extent that measures could be 
taken to avoid their inception. 
 
With such prerequisites it is then necessary to assume the release of a certain mass of gravel, 
soil or rock with/without waters at a certain location and to predict its likely motion down the 
mountain slope - following the direction of topography, through troughs, corries and river beds - 
and to estimate along its route the potential of destruction until it comes to rest in the deposition 
area. To achieve these, certain physically reliable flow models with promising performance (i.e., 
granular and debris flow models in regimes B and C) should be identified and employed. 
 
- 3 - 
 
T
0 div (mass balance) ,
 div b (linear momentum balance) ,
(angular momentum balance) ,
0 e div r (internal energy balance) ,
0 div s (entropy balance) ,
= ρ + ρ
= ρ − − γν
= −
= ρ − ⋅ + − ρ
= ρη + − ρ − pi
v
0 v t
0 t t
t D q
φ
ɺ
ɺ
ɺ
ɺ
 
 
where ρ is the density, v the velocity, t the Cauchy stress tensor, b the specific body force, tT the 
transposition of t, e the specific internal energy, D the symmetric part of the velocity gradient, 
known as the stretching tensor, q the heat flux, r the specific energy supply, η the specific entropy, 
ϕ the entropy flux, s the specific entropy supply and pi the entropy production (a non-negative 
quantity). The notation ℘ɺ  denotes the material time derivative of ℘, e.g. v⋅℘+∂∂℘=℘ )grad(t /ɺ , 
while A⋅B = tr(ABT) = tr(ATB) for two arbitrary second-rank tensors. In the formulations (1)-(5), 
granular and debris flows are not considered micropolar or Cosserat type, so that the balance of 
angular momentum reduces to the symmetry of the Cauchy stress tensor. Depending on the 
complexity of the model, additional variables (e.g. the volume fraction ν defined as the solid 
volume divided by the total volume of a representative volume element) are introduced to account 
for the specific microstructural effects, and are associated with additional equations for their 
evolutions. In addition, the balance equations (1)-(5) can also be extended for multi-phase 
mixtures when debris flows are modeled as multi-phase continua. These two points will become 
clear in the forthcoming discussions. In the formulations (1)-(5), ρ, v and θ (temperature) are the 
unknown field quantities, whilst t, e, q, η and ϕ are considered constitutive variables. If the 
constitutive variables can be expressed as functions of the unknown field quantities, then the 
number of the unknowns (ρ×1+v×3+θ×1=5) corresponds to the number of the available equations 
((1)×1+(2)×3+(4)×1=5).1 The equations (1)-(5) are then mathematically likely well-posed and one 
has the chance to obtain the values of the unknowns by integrating these equations simultaneously, 
provided that the constitutive equations (constitutive models) are identified. 
 
Takahashi’s (1991) IAHR monograph summarizes the work as of that time; it gives a fairly 
critical account on the mechanisms of granular and debris flows from their onset to deposition. It 
presents a detailed understanding of the mechanisms of the flow of a layer of a particle-fluid 
mixture under simple gravity driven shear for Bagnold’s (1954) grain inertia and macroviscous 
regimes. The model equations are eventually simplified to essentially a one-constituent model, and 
this view is maintained throughout. What emerges is a hydraulic model resembling Bagnold-type 
constitutive behaviour of the stresses. Two-dimensional flows are analyzed, time dependent and 
steady, and the snout behaviour. Cheng-Liung Chen (1987) works in a similar spirit. Based on his 
own work and on work by Jan & Chen (1993), Hungr (1994), Coussot (1994), O’Brian et al. 
(1993) and on Laigle & Coussot (1993), Chen presents a detailed analysis of the rheological 
models and deduces with these the velocity profiles for steady gravity driven flow of strictly 
parallel sided slab. 
                                               
1
 While (3) can be fulfilled by prescribing a specific constitutive class, (6) can be recast in an inequality and will be 
used in the thermodynamic analysis to deduce the equilibrium expressions of the constitutive variables. 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 
(5) 
- 5 - 
 
the second Rivlin-Ericksen tensor, but all three laws predict the same behaviour under static plane 
shear flow. On the other hand, Rajagopal & Massoudi (1990) postulate the Cauchy stress to 
depend linearly on D and the “structure tensor M = gradν ⊗ gradν” with coefficients that depend 
nonlinearly upon the solid volume fraction. Massoudi and Boyle (1991) demonstrate that this 
stress can also be derived from Enskog’s dense gas procedure, when treating the fluctuation of the 
granules with an approach of statistical mechanics. No examples of simple flows have so far been 
treated to our knowledge, let alone the flow under somewhat realistic driving conditions. 
Furthermore, because of the higher gradients, gradν, the emerging boundary value problems are 
fraught with additional boundary conditions that are difficult to physically justified.  
 
(b) A further advancement on the effect of the evolution of ν in granular and debris flows was 
the higher-order theory proposed by Goodman-Cowin (1971,1972), in which a balance equation 
involving the second time derivative of ν was proposed for its evolution. Since then this theory is 
known as the Goodman-Cowin theory and is widely applied in various branches of science and 
engineering. Recently, this theory has been demonstrated by Fang et al. (2006a,b,c) to bear some 
dimensional inconsistency which can be removed by introducing an internal length, resulting in 
the revised Goodman-Cowin theory. The balance equations of this model are given by 
 
( )
Balance of mass  div 0,
Balance of linear momentum div ,
Modified balance of equilibrated force div f ,
Balance of internal length div II,
Balance of intern
− γν + γν + γν =
− γν = + γν
− γν ν + ν = + γν
− γνΛ = + γν
−
v
v t b
h
Γ
ɺ ɺ
ɺ
ɺ ɺ ɺɺℓ ℓ
ɺɺℓ
( )al energy e div r grad
          f grad II.
γν = ⋅ − + γν + ⋅ ν
− γν ν + Λ ⋅ − γνΛ
t D q h
Γ
ɺ ɺℓ
ɺ ɺɺℓ ℓ ℓ
 
 
for the case of an independent internal length ℓ , in which the bulk density ρ is decomposed in to 
the true mass density of the grains γ times the volume fraction ν. It has been demonstrated that the 
independent internal length can to some extent capture the effects of the mean free path of the 
grains, and the model can also well describe the behaviour of granular and debris flows in 
quasi-static situations. Currently, some experiments are conducted to verify the existence and 
significance of the internal length (K.C. Chen/NTU, pers. communication). However, only 
one-dimensional steady IBV problems have been studied by use of the models in this category; 
their performances and limitations to more realistic IBV problems are still unknown, let alone the 
comparisons with single-phase models without microstructural effects. 
 
(c) Since granular and debris flows are highly dissipative, the internal friction and the surface 
roughness of the grains should play a significant role in the transportation processes of momentum. 
Unfortunately, only a few efforts have been made to simulate such microstructural effects, see e.g. 
Kirchner (2002), Kirchner and Teufel (2002) and Fang et al. (2006d). This may due to the fact that 
the physical processes involved for these microstructural effects are not yet clear. However, it can 
still be concluded from the available calculated results that the internal friction, correlated to the 
plastic features of the materials, dominates the flow characteristics when the solid concentration is 
(6) 
(7) 
(8) 
(9) 
(10) 
- 7 - 
 
2. Our own preparatory work 
 
My own work on granular and debris flows ought to be seen as part of the research activity on 
the dynamics on granular flows. Granular flows belong to my PI’s research activities since I have 
joined Prof. Hutter’s research group in 2002 and were then initiated as an approach to model 
particle laden turbulent flows of a solid-fluid mixture.2 My own work on granular flows is listed 
in the references as [E1] to [E16], in which such flows were modeled as single-phase 
elasto-visco-plastic continua with/without microstructural effects with the extensions for 
multiphase, multi-constituent mixtures. The thermodynamic analysis based on the Mueller-Liu 
entropy principle, and also the variational analysis, were intensively carried out to deduce different 
constitutive models for granular flows in various flow situations. Although in these works only 
steady, one-dimensional dense granular flow problems were investigated by use of the deduced 
constitutive models, the results demonstrate promisingly that the proposed models can well 
describe the complex elasto-visco-plastic behaviour associated with microstructural effects of 
granular and debris flows, and can equally be extended for mixtures in a physically realizable way. 
In addition, since the proposed models were deduced via the thermodynamic analysis and are 
physically justified, they can be used as a criterion to evaluate the performance and limitations of 
other granular and debris flow models. 
 
In fact, the work on rapid granular flows, as applied to granular and debris flows, proceeded 
along two separate lines. On the one hand, the dynamics of debris at low water content may differ 
from that of dry cohesionless granules by a different rheological behaviour. Scrutiny of the 
literature on the rheology of rapid flow of debris indeed revealed that there are many proposals of 
constitutive behaviour for the Cauchy stress tensor, if the continuum is described as a 
one-constituent material. The state of the art was summarized in 1996 in the article “Debris flow 
modeling: A review” (Hutter et al.) and in Chapter 2 of Fang’s dissertation (Fang 2005). One of 
the weaknesses exhibited by the existing models at that time was (and still is) the lack of 
intercomparison among the various models and the missing foundation for the Takahashi’s model. 
The latter missing gap was closed in the article and it was shown that the Takahashi’s model could 
be derived from a two phase viscous mixture model by restricting the dynamics to plane flow and 
by imposing the thin film approximation. This was an important step, because Takahashi’s model 
was never derived before for the general three-dimensional situations and therefore could not be 
used for the general motion from initiation to runout for arbitrary topography. It was also 
important, because the plane flow limit gave reasonable agreement with observations. 
 
One lack, however, still was the thermodynamics embedding of the rapid granular flows. This 
was subsequently studied in several papers by Fang (2005), Fang et al. (2006a,b,c,d), Luca, Fang 
& Hutter (2004) and Wang & Hutter (1999a,b,c). It led to closure relations for the Cauchy stress at 
                                               
2
 Prof. Hutter, the emeritus professor in the Department of Mechanics at Darmstadt University of Technology, 
Germany, and his co-workers have begun the research on granular avalanche and debris flow modeling since 1980 
and have outstanding contributions in this research field. Prof. Hutter is one of the leading figures in the research 
field on granular and debris flows; he is invited by the Academia Sinica Taiwan as a regular chair professor during 
Sep. – Dec. from 2006 – 2010 in Taiwan. 
- 9 - 
 
3. Goals and working scheme 
 
Goals: 
As discussed before, since the inception of granular and debris flows is currently not clear and 
unpredictable, it is necessary to assume the release of a certain mass of gravel, soil or rock 
with/without waters at a certain location and to predict its likely motion down the mountain slope 
and to estimate potential of destruction until it comes to rest in the deposition area. Naturally, the 
amount of unstable mass at the region of release must be estimated, and this requires delicate 
knowledge of geotechnique, geology and hydrology paired with knowledge from historical 
sources, and both mass and location of release are prescribed with a certain probability, i.e., mean 
values and standard deviations of the input quantities.  
 
After the assumed inception of granular and debris flows, from a risk management point of view, 
the central question to be answered may therefore be as follows: Is it possible, on account of 
statistical and stochastic elements in the computation, to predict deductively for a given release 
region and a given released mass of soil with/without water, the location of the deposit and the 
identification of the endangered zones in the deposition area? The answer to this question 
involves stochastic and deterministic components but has to my knowledge so far never been 
addressed. The statistical variation of the input data and the stochastic elements of the 
phenomenology of the otherwise deterministic dynamic model lead to a probabilistic distribution 
of the deposition. Figure 2 tries to illustrate this situation. Of interest is how the output variables 
react to the statistical variation of the input data and the uncertainties of the model parameters. 
Very little is known about the robustness of the output quantities to these variations. Their 
investigation requires secure knowledge of the model equations and biasian analysis, see e.g. 
Hutter (2001). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure2. Deterministic and probabilistic components of the formation, motion and deposition 
of a granular or debris flow. 
 
 
• Breaking mass in release 
region 
• Location, size and distribution 
of loose mass 
Deterministic Model, 
(based on Newtonian 
Mechanics) 
INPU
T 
OUTPU
T 
Phenomenological
parameters may be not 
well constrained. 
Frictional properties and 
model parameters are 
only known with 
uncertainties. 
• Deposition area 
• Mass distribution 
• Track geometry 
Initial conditions are only 
known to within statistical 
distribution. 
In what way do the output quantities 
depend on the statistical properties 
of the input quantities and the 
uncertainties of the 
phenomenological parameters? 
- 11 - 
 
approximation. This then will most likely yield an IBV problem in which integrations with respect 
to the coordinate perpendicular to the basal boundary are much simpler than integrations in the 
two topography-parallel directions (for instance, this equation of momentum balance may simply 
express hydrostatic equilibrium). This solution technique is used, when the flow perpendicular to 
the base experiences considerable shearing. The amount of this shearing and the contributions to 
the total velocity by sliding and shearing are constitutive dependent and will be one measure of 
difference between the various models. 
 
The second, even further approximation, lends itself directly from here. When shearing is 
negligible, then the velocities are practically uniformly distributed over depth. So, equations can 
further be simplified by averaging them over the flow depth and only seeking for the depth 
averaged topography-parallel averaged velocity components and the flow depth. This model is 
much less sensitive to differences in closure relations, since the stress enters only at the 
boundaries. 
 
Comparison between these two models may be very important even for cases in which internal 
shearing may be important. Detailed measuring of velocity profiles is practically never possible 
since debris and mud flows can only be observed at the free surface. Should flows (velocities, 
geometries) computed by both approximations yield results close to one another, then it suffices to 
employ the simpler one in which the third dimension is integrated out. 
 
It is clear that investigations of flows for these topographic configurations can only be 
performed numerically or experimentally, because analytical solutions are hardly known for them. 
For avalanche flows using the depth-integrated Savage-Hutter theory the integrating software is 
available using TVD finite difference schemes. For other models, and in particular when the 
interstitial fluid plays a significant role, new software must be developed. 
 
 
Working program: 
In concreto, the following steps of analysis are proposed: 
 
• Selection of models. This step is crucial and requires restriction to the few most promising  
models. 
• Comparative analysis of results for simple flow configurations 
- Simple shear, Couette flows 
- Poiseulle flow 2D, 3D under gravity with arbitrary inclination of the axis 
- Gravity driven 2D shear flow with free surface 
- Steady open channel flow along simple but constant cross sections 
- Comparisons between the numerical simulations and experimental results 
 
• Shallow flow analysis 
- Scaling analysis 
- 13 - 
 
models of granular and debris flows. (III). Intercomparison of single-phase and 
mixture models. 
References: 
Ahmadi, G., 1983: A generalized continuum theory for flow of granular materials. In: Advances in 
the mechanics and the flow of granular materials 2. (Shahinpoor, M. ed.), II Gulf Publishing Co., 
497-527. 
Ahmadi, G., 1985: A turbulent model for rapid flows of granular materials, part I: basic theory. 
Powder Technology 44,  261-268. 
Ahmadi, G.; Shahinpoor, M., 1983: Towards a turbulent modeling of rapid flow of granular 
materials. Powder Technology, 35,  241-248. 
Bagnold, R.A., 1954: Experiments on a gravity free dispersion of large solid spheres in a 
Newtonian fluid under shear. Proc. Royal Soc. London, A 255, 49-63 
Chen, C.L., 1987: Comprehensive review of debris flow modeling concepts. In: Japan Geol. Soc. 
Ann. Rev. Eng. Geol. Vol. VII, 13-29 
Denlinger, R.P., Iverson, R.M., 2001: Flow of variably fluidized granular masses across three 
dimensional terrain. 2. Numerical predictions and experiments tests. J. Geophysical Research, 106, 
552-566 
Fang, C. 2005: A thermo-mechanical continuum theory with internal length of cohesionless 
granular materials. Forschungsbericht Band 11, Institut fuer Mechanik, Technische Universitaet 
Darmstadt, ISBN: 3–935868–11–1 
Fang, C.,Wang, Y., Hutter, K. 2006a: A thermo-mechanical continuum theory with internal length 
for cohesionless granular materials. Part I. A class of constitutive models. Continuum Mech. 
Thermodyn. 17(8), 545-576  
Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K. 2006b: A thermo-mechanical continuum theory with internal 
length for cohesionless granular materials. Part II. Non-equilibrium responses and numerical 
simulations of simple shear, plane Poiseuille and gravity driven problems. Continuum Mech. 
Thermodyn. 17(8), 577-607 
Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K. 2006c: A variational principle for the revised Goodman-Cowin 
theory with internal length. Arch. Appl. Mech. 76, 119-131 
Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K. 2006d: Shearing flows of a dry granular material – hypoplastic 
constitutive theory and numerical simulations. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 30, 
1409-1437 
Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K., 2007: On thermodynamically consistent constraints for the Cauchy 
stress tensor of an isotropic elasto-visco-plastic material. Arch. Rational Mech. Anal. (submitted) 
Goldhirsch, I., 1999: Rapid granular flows: Kinetics and Hydrodynamics. In: Modeling in Applied 
- 15 - 
 
Lond. A 458, pp.3053-3077. 
Laigle, D., Coussot, P., 1993: Numerical modeling of debris flow dynamics. Proc. Int. Workshop 
on Floods and Inundations related to large earth movements. Trento, Italy, IAHR A 11.1-11.11 
Liu, K.-F., Mei, C.C., 1994: Roll waves on a layer of a muddy fluid flowing down a gentle 
slope—A Bingham model . Phys. Fluids, 6, 2577    
Luca, I., Fang, C., Hutter, K., 2004: A thermodynamic model of turbulent motions in a granular 
material. Continuum Mech. Thermodyn. 16, 363-390 
Lun, C.K.K., Savage, S.B., Jeffrey, D.J., Chenpurniy, N., 1984: Kinetic theories for granular flows: 
inelastic particles in Couette flow and slightly inelastic particles in a general flow field. J. Fluid 
Mech. 140, 223-256 
Massoudi, M., Boyle, E.J., 1991: A review of theories for flowing granular materials with 
applications to fluidized beds and solids transport. US Department of Energy, Report 
DOE/PETC/TR-91/8 
McTigue, D.F., 1979: A nonlinear continuum theory for flowing granular materials. Ph.D. 
dissertation, Department of Geology, Standford University 
Norem, H., Irgens, F., Schieldrop, B.A., 1987: A continuum model for calculating snow 
avalanches. In: Avalanches Formation, Movements and Effects (B. Salm, H. Gubler eds), 
IAHS-Publ. No. 126, 363-379 
Patra, A.K., Bauer, A.C., Nichita, C.C., Pitman, E.B., Sheridan, M.F., Bursik, M., Rupp, B., Weber, 
A., Stinto, A., Namikawa, L., Renschler, C., 2006: Parallel adaptive numerical simulation of Day 
Avalanches over Nature Terrain. J. Volcanology and Geothermal Research, (appearing) 
Rajagopal, K.R., Massoudi, M., 1990: A method for measuring material modeli of granular 
materials: flow in an orthogonal rehometer. Topical Report, US Department of Energy, 
DEO/PETC/TR-90/3 
Salm, B., 1963: On nonuniform, steady flow of avalanching snow. AIHS Berne-meeting, 
AIHS-Publ. 79, 19-29 
Salm, B., Gubler, H.,(eds), 1987: Avalanche Gormation, Movements and Effects. IAHS-Publ. 126. 
Savage, S.B., 1979: Gravity flow of cohesionless granular materials in chutes and channels. J. 
Fluid Mech. 92, 53-96 
Takahashi, T., 1991: Debris flow. IAHR-AIRH monograph series. A.A. Balkema, Rotterdam 
Vallance, J.W., Scott, K.M., 1995: Debris flow, debris avalanche, and flood hazards at and 
downstream from Mount Rainier, Washington, USGS Hydrology, Investigations Atlas HA-729m 
1:100000 
Vallance, J.W., Iverson, R.M., 2001: New views of granular mass flows, Geology 29, 115-118 
- 17 - 
 
[E10] Fang, C., 2004: On the correspondence between stored energy function and Helmholtz 
free energy function of granular materials. Int. J. Appl. Sci. Eng. Vol. 2, Nr.2, 117–126 
[E11] Fang, C., 2004: Modification of Goodman-Cowin theory and its application to the 
constitutive models of flowing granular materials. Int. J. Appl. Sci. Eng. Vol. 2, Nr. 1, 
16–28 
 
Non-refereed publications since 2002: 
 
[E12] Fang, C., 2006: Abschlussbericht des DFG Projektes “Analyse von Schüttgutmodellen”, 
DFG HU 412/37–1 
[E13] Fang, C., 2005: Zwischenbericht des DFG Projektes “Analyse von Schüttgutmodellen”, 
DFG HU 412/37–1 
[E14] Fang, C., 2005: Abschlussbericht des Projektes “Thermodynamisch gekoppelte 
Schichtenströmungen” vom DFG–Graduiertenkolleg “Modellierung und Beschreibung 
technischer Strömungen” 
[E15] Fang, C., 2004: Continuum theories for the flow of dry granular materials with internal 
length: Comparisons of Benchmark problems. In: Forschungsvorhaben “Kritikalität von 
porösen Materialien” des Institutes und der Versuchsanstalt für Geotechnik und der 
Institute für Mechanik III und IV der Technische Universität Darmstadt 
[E16] Chubarenko, I., Fang, C., Faria, S., Hutter, K., Niculescu, A., Placidi, L., Pudasaini, S., 
Rutscher, R., Wang, Y., 2003: Vorlesungsscript zum Fortbildungskurs “Schnee und Eis 
im Spannungsfeld umwelt- und klimarelevanter Naturgefahren”, Institut für Geotechnik 
und Tunnelbau, Universität Innsbruck, Österreich 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 19 - 
 
geometries are in progress. 
 
(b) To distinguish the performance and limitation of these models some theoretical and numerical 
investigations were performed within the project. The focus was on the intercomparison 
between some profound single-phase models with microstructural effects. 
 
Significant microstructural effects include the evolution of the volume fraction (i.e., the solid 
content), the evolution of the internal length, the effects induced by the surface roughness and 
abrasion of the grains, and the evolution of internal friction. These four are in particular 
important and have been discussed extensively in the project. A certain conclusions are given 
in the following: 
 
(1) The evolution of the volume fraction plays a very significant role in the behavior of 
flowing granular/debris continua. It is the underlying physical mechanism for normal stress 
difference and dilatant phenomena. It is seen that for most cases its effects can appropriately 
be accounted for by using a first-order gradient theory for its time evolution (i.e., the first time 
derivative of the volume fraction is used), except for very rapid flow circumstances, in which a 
dynamic balance equation needs be formulated for the evolution of volume fraction.   
(2) The internal length effects are only significant for rapid flows. For slow motions the 
colliding motions of the grains cease, under which the effects of internal length become 
insignificant and reduce to the effects induced by the grain size. 
(3) The internal friction is very important for granular/debris flows. It is the underlying 
physical mechanism for the granular/debris deposits. Without this effect, a granular or debris 
heap can exist in a very restricted situation. Of particular interest is its incorporation into other 
microstructural effects. We have successfully incorporated this effect with the effects of the 
evolutions of volume fraction and internal length to obtain a thermodynamically consistent 
model for granular/debris flow, which was employed to investigate some simple flow 
problems. Numerical results show good agreement with experimental outcomes. 
(4) The surface roughness and the abrasion of the grains are hardly be accounted for, and 
were not extensively addressed in the project. 
 
Based on the characteristics mentioned above, the intercomparison for single-phase models 
with mocristructural effects is rather successful, both theoretically and numerically in simple 
shear flows. However, for realistic flow situations such as a dry granular flow released from a 
silo down an inclined plane the intercomparison is not well satisfied, since the emerged 
unsteady BVP is complicated and the calculated results are sensible to the parameters used in 
the model. We should continue to investigate this problem in the future. 
 
By and large the present study has clarified the essential difference between various 
single-phase granular/debris flow models with microstructural effects, in particular their 
fundamental mechanical and thermodynamical characteristics in simple flow situations. 
Extensions to practical flow geometries are in progress.  
- 21 - 
 
Extensions to practical flow geometries are in progress.  
 
  Although the significant characteristics of various granular/debris flow models have been 
investigated to clarify their performance and limitations from the view point of fundamental 
physical justifications, their applications to practical flow geometries are, however, not very 
successful. These are due to the facts that by although the flow models can to a large extent be 
simplified by using the shallow flow assumption to be implemented into the numerical calculating 
schemes, the reduced models can only be applied to the flow regime C shown in Fig.1. In regime 
C the flow is essentially two-dimensional due to the large extension in the horizontal directions. 
However, in regimes A or B the flow is essentially three-dimensional; important information about 
the flow initiation and base erosion may not be captured when the shallow flow assumption is 
employed. Here we are facing a two-face problem: the model needs be simplified to be 
implemented in the numerical scheme with the assumption of shallow flow, however, when doing 
this some important information about the three-dimensional flow characteristics may be lost. In 
the mean time this contradiction remains unsolvable and should be investigated again when new 
theories of soil motions are proposed. 
 
  As a summary, about eighty five percent of the goals presented in the research proposal have 
been achieved. Publications within the project are summarized in the next section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 23 - 
 
2. Fang, C. (2010): Rheological characteristics of solid-fluid phase transition of a dry granular 
matter in a simple plane shear. In: The 81st Annual Meeting of the Association of Applied 
Mathematics and Mechanics in Germany (GAMM 2010), Karlsruhe, Germany, 
22-26/03/2010 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
3. Fang, C. (2009): Rheological characteristics of solid-fluid phase transition of a dry granular 
matter in a simple plane shear flow. In: The 26th National Conference on Mechanical 
Engineering (2009 CSME), Tainan, Taiwan, 20-21/11/2009 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
4. Fang, C., Lee, Y., Lin, Y., Lu, L.S. (2009) Numerical simulations of shape-induced particle 
segregation in a 2D binary dry granular mixture consisting of spherical and elliptic 
particulates. In: The 33rd National Conference of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics 
(33STAM), Miao-Li, Taiwan, 13-14/11/2009 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
5. Fang, C. (2009): A gradient-flow theory for dry granular flows down an inclined moving plate. 
In: The 13th Conference on Current Researches in Geotechnical Engineering in Taiwan, I-Lan, 
Taiwan, 26-28/08/2009 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
6. Fang, C. (2009): On solid-fluid phase transition of a dry granular matter in a simple plane 
shear flow without gravity. In: Cross-Strait Workshop on Engineering Mechanics 2009, 
ChongQuin, ChengDu, China, 18-23/08/2009 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
7. Fang, C. (2009): A comparative study between two concepts of the evolution of porosity in 
dry granular flows. In: The 5th International Symposium on Food Rheology and Structure 
(ISFRS 2009), Zurich, Switzerland, 15-18/06/2009 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
8. Fang, C. (2008): On two concepts in modeling the variation in porosity in dry granular flows. 
In: The 32nd National Conference of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics (32STAM), Chia-Yi, 
Taiwan, 28-29/12/2008 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
9. Fang, C. (2008): On equilibrium responses of different modelings for the variation in porosity 
in dry granular matters. In: The 25th National Conference on Mechanical Engineering (2008 
CSME), Changhua, Taiwan, 21-22/11/2008 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
10. Fang, C. (2008): A gradient-flow theory for dry granular flows down an inclined moving plate. 
In: The 2008 Conference on Civil and Ecological Engineering, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 
31/10/2008 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
11. Fang, C., Lee, C.H. (2008): Unsteady parallel flow of an elasto-visco-hypoplastic fluid 
between two infinite parallel plates. In: The 14th World Conference on Earthquake 
Engineering (14 WCEE), Beijing, China, 12-17/10/ 2008 (NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3)  
12. Fang, C. (2008): Gravity-driven dry granular slow flows down an inclined moving plane: a 
comparative study between two concepts of the evolution of porosity. In: Cross-Strait 
Workshop on Engineering Mechanics 2008, Tainan, Taipei, Taiwan, 27-28/09/2008, 127-141 
(NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
13. Fang, C. (2007): Vertical-channel flow of a dry granular material with microstructural effects. 
In: 第十六屆國防科技學術研討會, Taoyuan, Taiwan, 30/11/2007, 7:26-35 (NSC 
96-2221-E-006-078-MY3) 
 
Technical Reports/Other Publications (3 reports): 
1. Fang, C. (2010): Annual report on the NSC-project "Study on the performance and 
applications of the rheological constitutive models of granular and debris flows", 
NSC-96-2221-E-006-078-MY3 (final report) 
2. Fang, C. (2009): Annual report on the NSC-project "Study on the performance and 
- 25 - 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A. CONFERENCE REPORTS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 27 - 
 
10 月 13 日至 10 月 17 日: 研討會正式開場及舉行。 
 
在會議中，與會代表就相關領域的研究進展和成果，進行了深入而廣泛的交流。由於參加人
數超過 3000 人，總計發表論文超過 1000 篇，故會議分 8 個場地同時進行。報告內容廣及地
震災害研究、大地行為觀測與分析、工程地震學、動態大地工程學、結構工程(結構分析、
橋梁安全與監測、木石造結構分析)、地震周期研究、地震救災體系及相關技術及實驗與數
值研究等主題，引起與會代表的極大興趣。本人之論文  Unsteady parallel flow of an 
elasto-visco- hypoplastic fluid between two infinite parallel plates  受邀於會議第三天第一場次
(08:45)於展覽會場以海報形式發表，展覽期間約有近五十位從世界各地來的專家學者對本人
所發表關於土壤液化模型的論文有興趣，並進行了廣泛的討論；與會人士給予了不少指教。  
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
會議結束時，與會代表認為本次會議達到了預期目的，不僅在學術上進行了交流，在感情上
也得到了深化，從而為世界從事地震工程及相關問題之專家學者之間的學術交流與合作提供
了新的瞭解平臺和交流契機。本次會議攜回與會發表之論文全文光碟片一份及論文摘要一
本。 
綜合此行之心得，除學術專業獲得充電，及結識一些國際同行外，主要還是與本次會議之研
討有關。本次會議，本人對土壤地質因地震災害所導致之液化行為比較感興趣；最近之研究
顯示對地質災害如山崩或土石流之探討已慢慢朝向複雜流體的方向前進。這對未來工程設
計、減少地質災害或許將有突破性之幫助。由於本次聚集的大都是國際知名之研究學者，經
由會議之結識與交換研究心得，對筆者往後之研究與合作，將有很大的助益。此次出國參觀
訪問可藉研討會瞭解各國最近對土壤動態特性之相關研究方向。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 29 - 
 
三、發表論文 
 
 
 
- 31 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 33 - 
 
 
 
 
 
- 35 - 
 
 
 
 
 
- 37 - 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告(第二年) 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3 
計畫名稱 顆粒流暨土石流流變本構模型性能比較與應用研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
方中 
助理教授，國立成功大學土木工程學系 
會議時間地點 Aug. 17-22. 2009，中國大陸重慶、成都 
會議名稱 2009 海峽兩岸工程力學研討會(2009CSWEM) 
發表論文題目 
On Solid-Fluid Phase Transition of a Dry Granular Matter in a Simple Plane 
Shear without Gravity 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
出席『2009 海峽兩岸工程力學研討會』報告 
 
2009 年度海峽兩岸工程力學研討會係中央研究院院士鮑亦興教授發起，今年已是第五屆
了。本次研討會是由重慶大學與四川大學主辦，於 2009 年 8 月 17 日至 8 月 23 日在重慶和
成都兩地召開，歷時一週。受邀學者來自成功大學、臺灣大學應用力學研究所等，大陸代表
包括四川大學、重慶大學、中國科學院力學研究所、浙江大學、西安交通大學、哈爾濱工業
大學、大連理工大學等學術單位的教授和專家。兩岸與會學者人數台灣 20 位、大陸 30 餘位。 
 
本次會議的目的在增進兩岸學者對彼此學術研究之瞭解。藉與會代表報告各人近期的研
究成果，以促進海峽兩岸工程力學相關領域之學術交流合作。研討會首先於重慶大學舉行，
然後移師成都四川大學，進行學術交流與參訪活動。本屆我國與會人數超過二十餘位，成大
除了筆者外，另有譚建國、黃忠信、朱勝浩、倪勝火、胡宣德、王雲哲等六位教授，其他主
要參與單位、人員有台大土木系及應用力學研究所多位教授，及其他國內各大學教授等。 
 
本次出國日期為自民國 98 年 8 月 17 日至 8 月 27 日，8 月 27 日搭機返國，本次出國之行程
如下： 
 
8月 17日: 在台南搭車至桃園轉搭 10:15國泰航空CX469由台北飛香港之班機，於當日 12:00
抵達香港後，再由香港轉搭下午 13:50 之港龍航空班機 KA840 由香港飛往重慶市，於當日
下午 16:05 分抵達重慶市。向研討會報到後即向住宿單位報到住宿、熟悉環境及休息。 
 
8 月 18 日至 8 月 22 日: 研討會正式開場及舉行(分為重慶與成都兩個會場)。 
8 月 18 日至 8 月 22 日: 私人行程。 
- 39 - 
 
三、發表論文 
 
 
 
 
- 41 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 43 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 45 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 47 - 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告(第三年) 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3 
計畫名稱 顆粒流暨土石流流變本構模型性能比較與應用研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
方中 
助理教授，國立成功大學土木工程學系 
會議時間地點 March 22.26. 2010，德國卡斯魯爾市 (Karlsruhe) 
會議名稱 2010 年德國數學與力學聯合年會(GAMM 2010) 
發表論文題目 Rheological characteristics of solid-fluid phase transition of a dry granular matter in a simple plane shear flow 
 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
出席『2010 年德國數學與力學聯合年會』報告 
 
德國數學與力學聯合年會 Gesellschaft fuer Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik (GAMM) 
係由德國兩位世界知名力學大師 Ludwig Prandtl (流體力學) 與 Richard von Mises (固體力學)
於 1922 年創立，主要是作為德國與世界在數學、力學與物理學上交換研究最新知識與訊息
的官方機構，研討的範圍從純粹理論發展到工程應用均有很深的著墨。此協會是目前德國境
內三大最重要的科學與技術研究團體之一，會員人數已出過 2500 人。除了在德國境內享有
盛名外，此機構亦是歐洲非常重要的學術團體，與歐洲各國的科學院均有密切的合作。作為
一個專業的學會團體，GAMM 的重要性義在於它提供了東歐與俄羅斯研究熊者一個很方便
的學術交流平台。每年會議舉行期間，參與會議的東歐與俄羅斯科學家與學者幾乎占所有參
加人數的三分之一強。原則上 GAMM 的會議一年召開一次，今年已是第 89 屆了。本次會
議會是由德國數學與力學聯合學會與卡斯魯爾工業大學(Karlsruhe Institute of Technology)聯
合主辦，於 2010 年 3 月 22 日至 3 月 26 日在德國與法國邊界的卡斯魯爾市召開，歷時一週。
參與會議之專家學者來自世界各地，以歐洲、美國、與東歐與俄羅斯學者為大宗。與會學者
人數約達 450 人。 
 
本次會議的目的在增進歐洲與世界對於數學與力學學術研究之互相瞭解。藉與會代表報
告各人近期的研究成果，以促進歐洲與世界對於數學與力學相關領域之學術交流合作。研討
會首先於卡斯魯爾工業大學(Karlsruhe Institute of Technology)國際會議廳舉行開幕式，然後
依學術領域分組進行學術交流與參訪活動。本屆我國與會學者除本人外，成功大學上有張錫
- 49 - 
 
進。無獨有偶的，在其他的學術領域，如食品科學流變與固體材料相變轉換研究中，亦積累
相當多的顆粒物質運動知識。藉由此次會議，針對顆粒物質，讓不同學術領域的專家學者由
各自的背景出發進行討論，真是獲益良多，亦可觸發激盪出嶄新的想法。這對未來工程設計、
減少地質災害或許將有突破性之幫助。由於本次聚集的大都是國際知名之研究學者，經由會
議之結識與交換研究心得，對筆者往後之研究與合作，將有很大的助益。此次出國參觀訪問
可藉研討會瞭解各國最近對乾燥顆粒物質流變特性之相關研究方向。 
 
三、建議事項 
 
鑒於學術研究趨向複雜化，可鼓勵同仁進行跨領域的學術合作與討論，出席可以參加不同領
域之學術研討會開始，應可激盪出豐富之學術火花。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 51 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 53 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 55 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 57 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 59 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 61 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 63 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 65 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 67 - 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX B. PUBLISHED JOURNAL PAPERS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
882 C. FANG
encountered in many different forms and various contexts in geophysical phenomena and industrial
processes; apart from these practical applications are they of particular interest in scientific study
due to their complex characteristics resulted from the interactions among the solid grains [1–6].
The states of dry granular flows are conventionally characterized by using the value of the inertia
number I defined as [7, 8]
I =√2‖D‖d/√p/ (1)
with ‖D‖=
√
trD2, where D is the symmetric part of the velocity gradient, known as the stretching
tensor (strain rate tensor), d the particle diameter, p the pressure of the flow and  the true mass
density of the grains. Although the inertia number I is understood macroscopically as a kind of
inertia force to pressure force, it is frequently used to denote the microstructural effects. As I
increases, the microstructures of a dry granular flow experience sequences of transition, and are
reflected by three different macroscopic states. Small values of I correspond to the quasi-static
state, in which the grains are locked into a kind of elastic networks and interact with one another
through long-term enduring contacts. On the contrary, for large values of I almost no elastic
networks appear and the grains are colliding stronger with one another during a short period of
time; such a situation is characterized as the collisional state. Between these two extremes is the
dense state, corresponding to intermediate values of I , in which both the enduring contacts and
the instantaneous collisions are significant.
As in quasi-static state the long-term enduring contacts among the grains dominate, the inter-
particle frictional forces become significant and result in a rate-independent stress relation, which
is accounted for by, for example, the Coulomb plastic model in the form [9, 10]
s =s tans (2)
in a 2-D situation, where s and s are the shear and normal stresses on the evaluation plane,
respectively, and s the static internal friction angle. The subscript s denotes that the indexed
quantity is evaluated at quasi-static state. On the contrary, in collisional state stresses are generated
mainly from the momentum transfers of the grains during the short-term collisions, and can be
accounted for by using, for example, the kinetic/dense gas theories [11–14].‡ The simplest model,
however, is the Bagnold’s rheological model given by Bagnold [16]
d =g()1
(
du
dy
)2
cosd , d =g()1
(
du
dy
)2
sind =d tand (3)
in a 2-D flow, where d and d are the shear and normal stresses on the evaluation plane,  the
volume fraction,§ 1 a material constant, analogous to fluid viscosity, u the velocity component
orthogonal to the coordinate y and d the dynamic internal friction angle. Again, the subscript d
denotes that the indexed quantity is evaluated at collisional state. It is evident from (3) that dry
granular flows in collisional state exhibit non-Newtonian stress characteristics.
In view of the facts that the ratios of the shear to the normal stresses in (2) and (3) can be
expressed in terms of the effective friction angles, that is, s and d in the quasi-static and
‡Another possibility in dealing with these collisional effects is the concept of granular temperature in the context
of continuum mechanical approach, see, for example [15].
§ It is defined as the solid volume divided by the total volume of a representative volume element of granular matter.
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
884 C. FANG
granular dense flow in a simple shear situation; the results will be compared with those obtained
from the discrete element simulation (DEM) in Section 6 to estimate the model validity. The paper
will be summarized in Section 7. Four Appendices are also provided for the detailed derivations
of thermodynamic analysis and the viscous coefficient.
2. PRESSURE-RATIO ORDER PARAMETER
It is assumed that the pressure in dry granular dense flows consists of the static part, ps, which
results from the long-term contacts between the grains, and the dynamic part pd resulting from
the short-term collisions viz.,
p= ps+ pd (5)
with ps ∼s, pd ∼d. This is due to the fact that for a dry granular dense flow under normal
operating conditions the difference between s and ps (and hence d and pd) is less than 5%
[7, 17]. The relative contributions of ps and pd to p depend on the flow state, and is indexed by
the order parameter defined as
≡
√
ps
p
(6)
The extreme values of =1 and =0 correspond to the flows in quasi-static and collisional states,
respectively, and for flows in dense state  varies between these two extremes. With (5) and (6),
(4) takes an alternative form
p = ps+ pd
 = 2 p tans +(1−2)p tand −→ tan=2 tans +(1−2) tand
(7)
As p can be measured in experiments, the effective friction angle  and the shear stress on the
evaluation plane  can essentially be obtained, provided that  is determined. It is thus possible to
use (7) to identify the stress state for flows in quasi-static, dense or collisional states by changing
the value of the order parameter.
As the strain rate increases, the order parameter  decreases from its maximum value, namely
1, toward its minimum value, namely 0. This is due to a sequence of change in the microstructure:
the distribution of the grains changes its state from a kind of elastic networks toward a dispersive
freely collisions. Such a microstructural state transition results, however, in the macroscopic phase
transition of materials. Specifically, it gives rise to a higher-order solid–fluid phase transition
in dense flows.∗∗ In addition, this higher-order phase transition leads to different amounts of
contributions of ps and pd to p, and hence  is coupled with other field quantities. In the present
study  is considered an independent field quantity, and its time evolution, as will be shown in
the forthcoming analysis, will be proposed and connected to some phase transition theories.
∗∗Unlike the first-order phase transition, the chemical composition of a granular matter experiences no change during
the solid–fluid transition. Rather, only some part of the granular body behave like a fluid, while the other part
exhibit a solid-like feature.
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
886 C. FANG
provide no extra energies to the whole granular system, and the balance of internal energy takes
its conventional form (12). The formulations (8)–(9), (11)–(13) form a mathematically likely well-
posed systems for the unknown field quantities 	, v, , Z and  (temperature), provided that the
constitutive equations can be expressed as functions of the field quantities.§§
We consider a temperature-dependent elasto-visco-plastic granular matter of which the consti-
tutive class is postulated in the form
Q={	,g1,,g2,,g3, L,Z} (15)
for the constitutive variables
S∈{t, f ,
,e,q,U,,/} with S=Sˆ(Q) (16)
where g1 =∇	, g2 =∇, g3 =∇ and L =∇v, and the hat above S denotes its functional depen-
dency. Equation (15) is proposed based on the Truesdell’s equi-presence principle; the omission of
the velocity goes back to the requirement of material frame indifference. Although the exclusion
of ˙ in (15) will cause an indifference between the empirical and absolute temperatures, and leads
to an infinite propagation speed of a small thermal pulse in the material [32, 33],¶¶ it is rather rare
and unimportant for most granular matter like soils, and is omitted here for simplicity. Within the
material objectivity, (15) can alternatively be expressed in the form
Q={	,g1,,g2,,g3,D,Z} (17)
where 	 and g1 are used to describe the elastic effects, L and Z being employed to capture the
viscous and plastic effects, respectively. This relation defines the constitutive class adopted in this
paper, with which (10) is automatically satisfied. We now turn to the possible restrictions on these
relations in the context of thermodynamic analysis based on the Mu¨ller–Liu entropy principle.
4. THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS
4.1. Exploitation of the entropy inequality
The second law of thermodynamics requires that the entropy production  in (14) should be
non-negative during a physical process. A physically realized process should be one in which the
entropy inequality (14), the balance equations (8), (9), and (11)–(13) as well as the constitutive
relations (16) and (17) hold simultaneously. This can be achieved by regarding the balance equations
as the constraints of (14) via the method of Lagrange multipliers in the form [34]
= 	˙+∇ ·/−	s−	(	˙+	∇ ·v)−kv ·(	v˙−∇ · t −	b)−(˙+∇ · f −
)
−kZ ·(Z˙−[X,Z]−U)−e(	e˙− t ·D+∇ ·q−	r)0 (18)
§§While the balance of angular momentum (10) can directly be fulfilled by the prescription of the constitutive
class, which will be shown shortly, the balance of entropy (14) is in fact an inequality and will be used in the
thermodynamic analysis to exploit the entropy inequality. This will be discussed in the next section.
¶¶ While in the context of Clausius-Duhem & Coleman-Noll approach the inclusion/omission of ˙ in the constitutive
class yields an elliptic/parabolic heat equation, resulting in an infinite propagation speed of thermal disturbances,
the inclusion of ˙ may give rise to a hyperbolic heat equation in the context of Mu¨ller-Liu approach with a certain
restrictions to the functionals of the internal energy and the Lagrangian multipliers, although these restrictions can
only be analyzed for simple materials.
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
888 C. FANG
4.2. Extra entropy flux
Under the context of rational thermodynamics, all the flux quantities contribute to the entropy flux
[33]. To account for this, we define the extra entropy flux vector k in the form
k=/−−1q−kv t − f =/−−1q− f (26)
The quantity k is a measure of the deviation between the entropy flux and the effects of other
fluxes; it reduces to a measure of the degree of collinearity between the entropy and heat fluxes
when no other fluxes exist. The thermodynamic analysis will greatly be simplified when k is
determined. To retain the integrity of the analysis, the detailed derivations of k is provided in
Appendix B. Here we only focus on the results found.
The extra entropy flux vector k is identified as
k=0 (27)
Equation (27) indicates that the entropy flux / in the present study is not collinear to the heat flux
q by the amount of − f , which results from the variations in the order parameter: an index of the
effects of phase transition (transition from solid to fluid behavior). The classical selection, namely
/=q/, is however obtained when such an effect is excluded. Moreover, substituting (B1)2 and
(27) into (23)2 yields another restriction
,Z f =0, −→ = ˆ

(	,,) (28)
on , for f does not vanish in general.
In view of (21)2,4,5, (26) and (27), the residual entropy inequality (25) can be recast in the form
=,	 f ·g1+(, f −−2q) ·g2+, f ·g3+(t + p I) ·D−	,
−	,Z ·U0 (29)
in which p=	2,	, known as the thermodynamic pressure, has been used. It is determined once
the free energy  is prescribed. Equation (29) will be further investigated in the context of
thermodynamic equilibrium.
4.3. Thermodynamic equilibrium
In the current formulation thermodynamic equilibrium is defined to be a time-independent process
with uniform thermodynamic field quantities and vanishing entropy production given by Hutter
and Wang [41]
|E =0 (30)
where the subscript E indicates that the indexed quantity is evaluated in thermodynamic equilibrium.
In addition, under the sufficient smoothness property  has to satisfy the conditions
,g2 |E =0, ,g3 |E =0, ,D|E =0 (31)
and that the Hessian matrix of  with respect to g2, g3 and D at thermodynamic equilibrium is
positive semi-definite (for details see Appendix C). While the first condition restricts the equilibrium
forms of the constitutive fields, the second condition constrains the sign of the material parameters
in them. We will only deal with (31) together with (30).
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
890 C. FANG
of the distributions of the grains (phase-transition contribution) and the frictional effects among
the grains (internal friction contribution). These two terms are the foundations for the existence of
a granular heap in static equilibrium in the context of the present study.
5. RHEOLOGICAL CONSTITUTIVE MODEL
In view of (16), (17), (C1), (C2) and (34)–(36), it is assumed that tD, f D and qD depend explicitly
and quasi-linearly on D, g3 and g2, respectively, while 
D depends explicitly and quasi-linearly
on  in the forms
tD = tr(D)I +2D, f D =−g3, qD =−g2, 
D =−(c0+c1+c22+·· ·) (37)
where the coefficient  plays a role similar to the bulk viscosity,  the dynamic viscosity,  the
diffusion coefficient,  the thermal conductivity,  the relaxation coefficient and c0, c1, c2, . . .
material coefficients, of which the functional dependencies are given by
, = funct.(	,,, ID, IID, IIID, IZ, IIZ, IIIZ), = funct.(	,,, ID, IID, IIID)
 = funct.(	,,), = funct.(	,, ID, IID, IIID)
(38)
where IA, IIA, IIIA are the three invariants of the second-rank tensor A given by
IA = trA, IIA = 12 (tr2A− trA2), IIIA =detA (39)
These coefficients are determined essentially by comparing the numerical results with experimental
outcomes. This may be a cumbersome procedure, possibly involves inverse techniques. It is noted
that the explicit expression of 
D on , that is (37)4, is postulated by using a power series
expression, where the relation of c0+c1+c2+·· ·=0 must hold to fulfill the restriction (34)2. For
the implementation of the complete constitutive equations for incompressible dense granular flows,
the specific forms of the plastic model U, the production associated with the order parameter, 
,
and the viscosity  need be prescribed, which are discussed as follows.
Plastic model: Different prescriptions ofU in (13) allow different plastic characteristics entering
the theoretical constitutive formulations. Specifically, we consider U to be a Coulomb-type plastic
model given by Fang et al. [27]
U= R(	,,,Z)‖D‖ (40)
which is employed to denote the rate-independent stress contribution. With (40), (36)3 takes the
form
t|E = −p I +	,Z R(	,,,Z)dirD=−p I +
√
20dir(D)
= −p I +√22 p tansdir(D) (41)
with dir(A)=D/‖D‖. In deriving (41), the expressions (2),(6), (34)2 and (37)4 have been used,
and the contribution of 	,Z R(	,,,Z) is chosen to be
√
20, where 0 is the yield stress,
understood as the critical static shear stress for impending flows, to merge the conventional Coulomb
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
892 C. FANG
The complete field equations for the unknown field quantities p, v, , Z and  can be obtained
in principle by substituting (44) into (8)–(9) and (11)–(13), in which the number of the unknowns
corresponds to the number of the independent equations. The system seems to be mathematically
well posed, and one has the chance to obtain the values of the unknown field quantities by
integrating the field equations simultaneously with appropriately boundary conditions.
Remarks
1. In the literature [7], the order parameter and the effective friction angle are, respectively,
given by
=
{√
(Ic − I )/Ic, IIc,
0, I > Ic,
tan= tans +
I
Ic
(tand − tans) (45)
which are the alternative expressions of (6) and (7). However, (45) has been proposed without
thermodynamic justifications, its thermodynamical consistency is thus approved by the present
study. More interesting is that the effective friction angle is found to increase linearly with
the inertia number I in dense flows (and hence (45)2 is called the friction law); this indicates
that the state-transition process is indeed second-order when compared with phase transition
theories [47]. This indicates that the application of the second-order Ginzburg–Landau phase
transition model to the determination of 
 in (42) is justified.
2. Substituting (44)2,3 into (11) gives rise to the balance of order parameter in the form
˙=∇ ·(∇)−2((I − Ic)+ Ic3) (46)
Equation (46) is a kind of time-dependent Ginzburg–Landau equation [48–50]. Although
derived by use of the thermodynamic analysis in the present study, (46) can equally be
derived by using the variational approach, viz., [48–50]
˙=−F

with F =
∫
B
(
F+ 
2
|∇|2
)
dv (47)
in which B denotes the material body. While the first volume integral in (47)2 represents
the local (short-term interaction) contributions to the potential function F with F given
by (42)1, the second volume integral displays the contributions of non-local (long-term
interaction) to the potential function. These illustrate that (46) attains its validity from both
the thermodynamical and variational approaches.
6. NUMERICAL SIMULATIONS
Consider a two-dimensional, steady, isothermal, incompressible dry granular dense flow between
two infinite parallel plates separated by the distance L with the coordinate system shown in
Figure 1, where the lower plate is held stationary, while the upper plate moves at a constant speed
V0. The flow is triggered by the motion of the upper plate, to which a constant pressure P0 is
applied to fit the experimental setup.
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
894 C. FANG
Substituting (50)1 into (49)1 gives rise to the field equation for u(y) in the form
0= d
dy
(
2 p tans +
01
1−2
(
du
dy
)2)
(52)
Equations (49)3 and (52) are, respectively, the governing differential equations for the unknown
field quantities (y) and u(y), with the boundary conditions given by
d
dy
∣∣∣∣
y=0
=−cI, d
dy
∣∣∣∣
y=−L
=cI, u|y=0 =V0, u|y=−L =0 (53)
In proposing (53) it is assumed that the grains and the surface of the two plates are sufficiently
rough, so that the grains adhere to the solid plates due to the frictional effects, and the conventional
no-slip conditions for u(y) hold, as illustrated in (53)3,4. In addition, the Neumann boundary
conditions for the order parameter (y) shown in (53)1,2 are motivated by the facts that the solid
boundaries behave as energy sources/sinks for the fluctuating kinetic energies of the grains [51, 52],
which are the dominant causes of the solid–fluid transition of the grain assembly. Thus, the order
parameter gradients normal to the boundaries are assumed to be proportional to the inertia number
with the proportionality of c pointing downward/upward on the upper/lower planes, respectively.
Nondimensionalization: Define the following dimensionless quantities:
y¯ = y
d
, L¯ = L
d
, u¯ = u√
bd
, V¯0 = V0√bd
p¯ = p
	bd
, = 
d2
, = 01
	0d2
, c¯=dc
(54)
with which (49)3 and (52) become
0 = d
2
dy¯2
−2(I − Ic)−2Ic3, I =
√

	p
du¯
dy¯
0 = d
dy¯
(
2 p¯ tans +

1−2
(
du¯
dy¯
)2) (55)
associated with the dimensionless boundary conditions given by
d
dy¯
∣∣∣∣
y¯=0
=−c¯ I, d
dy¯
∣∣∣∣
y¯=−L¯
= c¯ I, u¯|y¯=0 = V¯0, u¯|y¯=−L¯ =0 (56)
In deriving (55) and (56) it is noted that the inertia number I , in view of (1) and (54), can be
expressed alternatively by the dimensionless expression (55)2.
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
896 C. FANG
6.3. Numerical results
Typical calculated profiles of u¯(y¯) and (y¯) for the variations in the parameters V¯0, P¯0, s , ,
 and Ic are shown in Figures 2–8, in which the horizontal axes denote the calculated values of
u¯(y¯) or (y¯), while the vertical axes are the distance y¯ apart from the upper moving plate. In
particular, Figure 2 illustrates the calculated profiles of u¯(y¯) and (y¯) compared with the results
from DEM simulations [26] to estimate the model validity, where =4, =12, s =18◦, Ic =0.2
and c¯=0 are assigned with different prescriptions of P¯0 and V¯0, of which the values are chosen
to be the same as those used in [26]. As P¯0 and V¯0 increase, the gains interlock with one another
more efficiently, and the shear on the upper moving boundary can be transmitted more efficiently
toward the lower stationary plate, as revealed by the u¯-profiles with increasing amplitude. The
granular layer can be divided into two distinct regions. In the region near the upper plane the grains
are colliding strongly with one another, exhibiting fluid-like characteristics. Outside this region
the grains remain almost stationary, and behave like a bulk solid due to the long-term enduring
contacts. As expected, the transition from solid to fluid behavior emerges gradually as approaching
Figure 2. Calculated profiles of u¯ under =4, =12, s =18◦, Ic =0.2 and c¯=0. (a) P¯0 =10, V¯0 =3; (b)
P¯0 =50, V¯0 =5; and (c) P¯0 =50, V¯0 =45. Solid lines: present model; dots: DEM simulations from [26].
Figure 3. Calculated profiles of u¯ and  for the variations in V¯0 (=10,20,30,40) under P¯0 =50, =4,
=12, s =18◦, Ic =0.2 and c¯=0. (a) Profiles of u¯(y¯) and (b) profiles of (y¯).
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
898 C. FANG
Figure 6. Calculated profiles of u¯ and  for the variations in  (=4,40,80,120) under V¯0 =10, P¯0 =50,
=12, s =18◦, Ic =0.2 and c¯=0. (a) Profiles of u¯(y¯) and (b) profiles of (y¯).
Figure 7. Calculated profiles of u¯ and  for the variations in  (=10,12,14,16) under V¯0 =10, P¯0 =50,
=4, s =18◦, Ic =0.2 and c¯=0. (a) Profiles of u¯(y¯) and (b) profiles of (y¯).
Increasing P¯0 corresponds to an increase in the normal pressure on the upper moving plane. Larger
values of P¯0 indicate that larger normal pressures are applied on the upper plate, and push the
grains to interlock stronger with one another. This results then in more solid-like behavior of the
granular body: there exists a thin layer near the upper plane, in which the grains are colliding
with one another due to the significant shear there. Below this layer the grains are interlocked and
behave as a solid. In contrast to Figure 3(a), the increasing tendency of the velocity amplitude as
P¯0 increases is due to the motions of bulk grains solids, not the motions of the individual grains,
as those shown in Figure 4(a).
The influences of the static friction angle s on the calculated u¯- and -profiles are illustrated
in Figure 5, where V¯0 =10, P¯0 =50, =4, =12, Ic =0.2 and c¯=0. Increasing s corresponds
to an increase in the yield shear stress of the material. As s increases, the transmission of the
shear becomes less efficient, so that the upper moving fluid-like layer becomes thinner, as shown
in Figure 5(a). This tendency is also manifest in the profiles of , as shown in Figure 5(b). As s
increases, there exists only a thin layer underneath the upper plane, in which the grains behave as
a fluid. Outside this layer the grains remain as a stationary bulk solid.
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
900 C. FANG
relative contributions to the pressure. The order parameter was considered an independent field
quantity assigned with a kinematic time evolution equation. The thermodynamic analysis, based on
the Mu¨ller–Liu entropy principle, was performed to deduce the ultimate equilibrium responses of the
constitutive equations. The non-equilibrium responses of the constitutive quantities were proposed
by using a quasi-linear theory, in which an order-parameter-based viscosity and the second-order
Ginzburg–Landau phase transition theory were incorporated. With these, a thermodynamically
consistent rheological constitutive model with a pressure-ratio order parameter for incompressible,
isochoric dense granular flows was established, which can equally be extended for flows in quasi-
static and collisional states when  approaches to its extreme values. The obtained model was
applied to study the rheological characteristics of a dry granular dense flows between two infinite
parallel planes, which was driven by the constant motion of the upper plane. The results were
compared with those from DEM simulations to estimate the model validity.
Since during the motion a dry granular dense flow experiences a sequence of microstructure
transition exhibiting an increasing tendency of the shear stress, it is regarded as a material with
second-order phase transition from solid to fluid behavior. It is found in the thermodynamic
analysis that the solid–fluid phase transition contributes to the entropy flux by the extent of
− f . The classical selection of the entropy flux is no longer valid due to the changes in the
microstructures. The non-collinearity between the heat and entropy fluxes adds the complexity of
the thermodynamic analysis and enters the equilibrium expressions of the constitutive quantities,
as shown in (32) and (33).
Of particular interest is the kinematic time evolution equation of , which can either be derived
from the thermodynamic or the variational approach. Although employed frequently in other order-
parameter-based constitutive models, the thermodynamic justifications of (11) and (46) have been
established first in the present study, with which the phase transition theory found its theoretical root
on the thermodynamic consistency (see (35)2, (36)2 and (37)2,4). These results deliver a criterion
to verify the thermodynamic justifications of other order-parameter-based constitutive models.
Numerical simulations show that the granular flow in simple plane shear circumstance tends to
be divided into two distinct regions. In the region near the upper plane the grains are colliding
strongly with one another, and behave like a fluid. In the region near the lower stationary plane
the long-term enduring contacts among the grains still dominate, and the grains behave like a
bulk solid. The transition from the solid-like region to the fluid-like region becomes more obvious
when approaching to the upper plane. Although the relative thicknesses of the fluidized and solid
regions vary as the model parameters vary, the above tendency holds and corresponds well to the
results from DEM simulations.
These findings suggest that the proposed model is able to distinguish different states of granular
flows by varying the value of the order parameter, and can be applied to study the rheological
characteristics of dry granular flows under complex geometric configurations.
APPENDIX A
Incorporating the functional dependencies of the constitutive variables (16) and (17) into (20) by
use of the chain rule of differentiation gives rise to the entropy inequality in the form
= −(	−1,	+	)	˙−	−1(+,)˙−(	−1,+)˙−	−1,D ·D˙
−(	−1,Z+kZ ) ·Z˙−	−1(,g1 g˙1+,g2 g˙2+,g3 g˙3)
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
902 C. FANG
APPENDIX C
In view of (16), (17) and (29), we define the following states:
Y ≡(	,g1,,g2,,g3,D,Z), Y |E =(	,g1,,0,1,0,0,Z), Y D =(g2,g3,D),Y D|E =0 (C1)
(C1) is so defined that in thermodynamic equilibrium the gradients of temperature, order parameter
and velocity fields should vanish, and  possesses its equilibrium value, namely |E =1, whilst
density may experience spatial variation due to the compressible effects of the grains. With these,
it is plausible to decompose each constitutive variable ℘ listed in (16) into its equilibrium part
℘|E and its dynamic part ℘D, viz.,
℘=℘|E+℘D, ℘|E = ℘ˆ|E(Y |E), ℘D = ℘ˆD(Y), ℘D|E =0 (C2)
Moreover, the entropy production  assumes its global minimum value at an equilibrium state, and
can be considered an ‘explicit’ function of Y D having the global minimum located at Y D|E =0 in
accordance to (29), (C1) and (C2). These lead to the conditions (31).
APPENDIX D
The viscosity for dry granular matter near the most compacted state is assumed to take the form
[45, 46]
=0g(	)(ID, IID, IIID), g(	)=
1
1−	/	c
(D1)
where 	c is the value of 	 at the most compacted state. Equation (D1) is conventionally used in the
kinetic-theory-based hydrodynamic models in the high-density limit, and is suitable to account for
the dynamic stress responses in the present study. However, when applied directly to (37)1, two
drawbacks emerge: (i) it is not appropriate for incompressible flows and (ii) its value experiences
strong variations when 	 is very close to 	c, resulting in strong fluctuations in stresses. The
functional dependency of (D1)2 on 	 can be transformed to  to avoid such disadvantages.
It follows from (1) and (45)1 that
2 =1− I
Ic
=1−
√
d√pIc
∣∣∣∣dudy
∣∣∣∣ −→ p= d2(1−2)2 I 2c
(
du
dy
)2
(D2)
holds for dense flows. For granular flows near the highest density limit the pressure is essentially
generated from the short-term instantaneous collisions, and can be approximated by the Bagnold’s
rheological model in the form [45]
pd =	0
1
1−	/	c
(
du
dy
)2
−→ (1−2)p=	0
1
1−	/	c
(
du
dy
)2
(D3)
in which (5) and (6) have been used, where 	0 denotes the initial bulk density. Comparing (D2)
with (D3) gives rise to
g(	)= 1
1−	/	c
= 1
1−2 =g() (D4)
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
904 C. FANG
19. Daniel RC, Poloski AP, Sa´ez AE. A continuum constitutive model for cohesionless granular flows. Chemical
Engineering Science 2007; 62:1343–1350.
20. Jop P. Hydrodynamic modeling of granular flows in a modified Couette Cell. Physical Review E 2008; 77:032301.
21. Hutter K, Rajagopal KR. On flows of granular materials. Continuum Mechanics and Thermodynamics 1994;
6:81–139.
22. Johnson PC, Jackson R. Frictional–collisional constitutive relations for granular materials with application to
plane shearing. Journal of Fluid Mechanics 1987; 176:67–93.
23. Johnson PC, Nott P, Jackson R. Frictional–collisional equations of motion for particulate flows and their application
to chute. Journal of Fluid Mechanics 1990; 210:501–535.
24. Aranson IS, Tsimring LS. Continuum theory of partially fluidized granular flows. Physical Review E 2002;
65:061303.
25. Schwabl F. Statistical Mechanics. Springer: Berlin, 2002.
26. Volfson D, Tsimging LD, Aranson IS. Partially fluidized shear granular flow: continuum theory and molecular
dynamics simulations. Physical Review E 2003; 68:021301.
27. Fang C, Wang Y, Hutter K. A unified evolution equation for the Cauchy stress tensor of an isotropic elasto-
visco-plastic material I. On thermodynamically consistent evolution. Continuum Mechanics and Thermodynamics
2008; 19:423–440.
28. Svendsen B, Hutter K, Laloui L. Constitutive models for granular materials including quasi-static frictional
behaviour: toward a thermodynamic theory of plasticity. Continuum Mechanics and Thermodynamics 1999;
14:263–275.
29. Pitteri M. Continuum equations of balance in classical statistical mechanics. Archive for Rational Mechanics and
Analysis 1986; 94:291–305.
30. Mindlin RD. Microstructure in linear elasticity. Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis 1964; 16:51–78.
31. Eringen AE, Kadafar CB. Polar field theories. Continuum Physics IV. Academic Press: New York, 1976.
32. Hutter K. The foundations of thermodynamics, its basic postulates and implications. A review of modern
thermodynamics. Acta Mechanica 1977; 27:1–54.
33. Mu¨ller I. Thermodynamics. Pitman: London, 1985.
34. Liu I. Method of Lagrange multipliers for exploitation of the entropy principle. Archive for Rational Mechanics
and Analysis 1972; 46:131–148.
35. Truesdell C, Noll W. The non-linear theories of mechanics. In Handbuch der Physik, Flu¨gge S (ed.), vol. III/3.
Springer: Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, 1965.
36. Fang C, Wang Y, Hutter K. A thermo-mechanical continuum theory with internal length for cohesionless granular
materials. Part I. A class of constitutive models. Continuum Mechanics and Thermodynamics 2006; 17(8):545–576.
37. Fang C, Wang Y, Hutter K. Shearing flows of a dry granular material—hypoplastic constitutive theory and
numerical simulations. International Journal for Numerical and Analytical Methods in Geomechanics 2006;
30:1409–1437.
38. Kirchner N. Thermodynamically consistent modelling of abrasive granular materials. I: non-equilibrium theory.
Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, Series A 2002; 458:2153–2176.
39. Svendsen B, Hutter K. On the thermodynamics of a mixture of isotropic materials with constarints. International
Journal of Engineering Science 1995; 33(14):2021–2054.
40. Hutter K, Laloui L, Vulliet L. Thermodynamically based mixture models of saturated and unsaturated soils.
Mechanics of Cohesive-Frictional Materials 1999; 4:295–338.
41. Hutter K, Wang Y. Phenomenological thermodynamics and entropy principle. In Entropy, Greven A, Keller G,
Warnecke G (eds). Princeton University Press: Princeton, NJ, 2003; 57–77.
42. Pudasaini S, Hutter K. Avalancje Dynamics. Springer: Berlin Heidelberg, 2007.
43. Takahashi T. Debris Flow: Mechanics, Prediction and Countermeasures. Taylor & Francis: London, 2007.
44. Savage SB. Gravity flow of cohesionless granular materials in chutes and channels. Journal of Fluid Mechanics
1979; 92:53–96.
45. Bocquent L, Losert W, Schalk E, Lubensky TC, Goullub JP. Granular shear flow dynamics and forces: experiment
and continuum theory. Physical Review E 2001; 65:011307.
46. Speedy RJ. Glass transition in hard disc mixtures. Journal of Chemical Physics 1999; 110:4559.
47. Papon P, Leblond J, Meijer PHE. The Physics of Phase Transitions: Concepts and Applications (2nd edn).
Springer: Heidelberg, New York, 2006.
48. Allen SM, Cahn JW. Microscope theory for antiphase boundary motion and its application to antiphase domain
coarsening. Acta Metallurgica 1979; 27:1085–1095.
Copyright q 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 2010; 34:881–905
DOI: 10.1002/nag
Continuum Mech. Thermodyn. (2010) 22:121–136
DOI 10.1007/s00161-009-0120-6
ORIGINAL ARTICLE
Chung Fang
On the equilibrium response of different modeling
approaches for the porosity variation in dry granular matter
Received: 25 July 2008 / Accepted: 8 September 2009 / Published online: 27 October 2009
© Springer-Verlag 2009
Abstract A selection of models for the variation in porosity in dry granular flows is investigated and
compared on the basis of thermodynamic consistency to illustrate their performance and limitations in equi-
librium situations. To this end, the thermodynamic analysis, based on the Müller–Liu entropy principle, is
employed to deduce the ultimate constitutive equations at equilibrium. Results show that while all the models
deliver appropriate equilibrium expressions of the Cauchy stress tensor for compressible grains, the model
in which the variation in porosity is treated kinematically yields a spherical stress tensor for incompressible
grains. Only the model in which the variation in porosity is modeled by a dynamic equation can give rise to
a non-spherical stress tensor at equilibrium. The present study illuminates the validity and thermodynamic
justification of the two modeling approaches for the porosity variation in dry granular matter.
Keywords Granular matter · Equilibrium stress · Müller–Liu entropy principle
PACS 05.70.-a · 45.70.Mg · 46.05.+b · 46.15.Cc · 83.10.Ff · 83.80.Fg
1 Introduction
Dry granular flows are flows of a large number of discrete solid particles with interstices filled with a gas. Due
to its relatively small density and viscosity in comparison with those of the solid particles, the interstitial gas
plays an insignificant role in the transportation processes such as momentum transport, and dry granular flows
are considered essentially dispersed single-phase continuous matters. Distinctive features, applications, and
the arising challenges in understanding the behavior of dry granular flows are summarized in e.g., [1–4].
The macroscopic behavior of a dry granular matter is understood as a direct consequence of the averaged
motions of the constituents, namely the grains, which, in the context of continuum mechanics approach, are
modeled as microstructural effects. From this perspective, dry granular matters are often considered continu-
ous media with microstructural effects exhibiting elastic, viscous, and plastic characteristics simultaneously.
Important microstructural effects are, e.g., the variation in porosity, the shape and density of the grains, and
the friction and abrasion on the surfaces of the grains [5–8], in which the variation in the porosity , is the
most important one. It indicates the effects of the redistribution of the pore space on the behavior of granular
flows at macroscale. Since pore space is simply empty space with no significant physical measures, such an
effect is conventionally represented in literature by another quantity, namely the volume fraction ν defined as
the solid volume divided by the total volume of a representative volume element (RVE) viz.,
 = 1 − ν. (1)
C. Fang (B)
Department of Civil Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, No. 1, University Road, Tainan City 701, Taiwan
E-mail: cfang@mail.ncku.edu.tw
The porosity variation in dry granular matter 123
the Liu identities and the constraints on the equilibrium constitutive equations derived from thermodynamic
equilibrium. The results will be applied to study the behavior of granular media with incompressible grains.
The article will be summarized in Sect. 4.
2 Balance equations and the constitutive class
The balance equations of isotropic dry granular matters, in addition to the evolution equation of the volume
fraction (3) or (6), are given by [5]
Mass balance 0 = γ˙ ν + γ ν˙ + γ ν∇ · v, (7)
Linear momentum balance 0 = γ νv˙ − ∇ · t − γ νb, (8)
Angular momentum balance 0 = t − tT, (9)
Internal energy balance 0 = γ νe˙ − t · D + ∇ · q − γ νr + ℵ˜, (10)
Entropy balance 0 = γ νη˙ + ∇ · φ − γ νs − π, π ≥ 0, (11)
with the abbreviations
ℵ˜ =
{ℵW
ℵF
}
=
{
0
−h · grad ν˙ + γ ν f ν˙
}
, (12)
where t is the Cauchy stress tensor, b the specific body force, tT the transposition of t, e the specific internal
energy, D the symmetric part of the velocity gradient, known as the stretching tensor (strain rate tensor), q the
heat flux, r the specific energy supply, η the specific entropy, φ the entropy flux, s the specific entropy supply,
and π the entropy production. The notation A · B defines the operation of A · B = tr(ABT) = tr(ATB)
for two arbitrary second-rank tensors. Equations 7, 8, and 11 are the conventional balances of mass, linear
momentum, and entropy, respectively, except that the bulk density ρ is decomposed into ρ = γ ν. Since the
material is not considered micropolar or Cosserat-type and the effects of particle rotation is excluded, the
balance of angular momentum reduces to its simplest form (9), namely the symmetry of the Cauchy stress
tensor. Furthermore, (10) is the conventional balance of internal energy (energy equation) with the extra energy
contribution ℵ˜ induced by the variation in ν. It should vanish when the variation in volume fraction is described
by the Wilmanski’s model (3), and contains the additional powers of working associated with h and f when
the Fang’s model (6) is employed.2 The superscript in ℵ denotes to which model it belongs (“W” and “F”
stand for the Wilmanski’s and Fang’s models, respectively). The formulations (3) (or (6)) and (7)–(12) form
two mathematically likely well-posed systems for the unknown primitive field quantities γ, ν, v, and θ (tem-
peratures) for the two models, and one has the chance to obtain the values of these unknowns by integrating
the equations simultaneously, provided that the constitutive equations are prescribed.3
We consider a temperature-dependent viscoelastic granular material of which the constitutive class is
postulated in the form
Q = {ν0, ν, ν˙,g1, γ,g2, θ,g3,L}, (13)
for the constitutive variables
S ∈ {t,h, f, e, q, η,φ}, with S = Sˆ(Q), (14)
where g1 = ∇ν,g2 = ∇γ,g3 = ∇θ , and L = ∇v, and the hat above S denotes its functional dependency. In
(13) ν0 is the value of ν in the reference configuration, which is included due to its influence on the behavior
of flowing granular matters [13,19]. The omission of the velocity v in (13) goes back to the requirement of
material frame indifference. Strictly, γ˙ and θ˙ should be included in (13) to fulfill Truesdell’s equi-presence
principle. Since it is assumed that the variation in γ is small, it is plausible to neglect γ˙ as an independent
argument in the constitutive class. In addition, although the exclusion of θ˙ will cause an indifference between
2 Here the internal length  in (6) is considered a material constant for simplicity, and the resulting energy contributions
associated with the flux and production are given in (12). The analysis can equally be extended when  is considered differently.
3 While the balance of angular momentum (9) can directly be fulfilled by the prescribed constitutive class, which will be shown
shortly, the balance of entropy (11) is in fact an inequality and will be used in the thermodynamic analysis. This will be discussed
later.
The porosity variation in dry granular matter 125
the Helmholtz free energy ψ in the form of ψ ≡ e − θη, and to conjecture that λe = 1/θ .5 Substituting these
and (19) into (16) yields
π˜ = γ˜ ν˜
θ
( ˙˜e − θ˙ η˜ − ˙˜ψ) + ∇ · φ˜ − λ˜γ (γ˜ ˙˜ν + ˙˜γ ν˜ + γ˜ ν˜∇ · v) − 1
θ
(
γ˜ ν˜ ˙˜e − t˜ · D˜ + ∇ · q˜ + ℵ˜
)
−
{
λν,W(ν˙W + νW∇ · vW − ∇ · hW − f W)
λν,F(γ FνFν¨F − ∇ · hF − γ FνF f F) − λ˜
v ·
(
γ˜ ν˜ ˙˜v − ∇ · t˜
)
≥ 0, (20)
in which
ψ˜ =
{
ψW
ψF
}
, with
{
ψW = eW − θηW,
ψF = eF − θηF, (21)
have been used.
Incorporating the functional dependencies of the constitutive variables (14) and (15) into (20) by use of
the chain rule of differentiation gives rise to the entropy inequality in the form
π˜ = −
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂ν˜
+ λ˜γ γ˜ +
{
λν,W
γ FνF f F
θ
)
˙˜ν −
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂ ˙˜ν +
{
0
λν,Fγ FνF
)
¨˜ν −
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂γ˜
+ λ˜γ ν˜
)
˙˜γ
−
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂g˜2
)
· ˙˜g2 −
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂θ
+ γ˜ ν˜
θ
η˜
)
θ˙ −
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂g3
)
· g˙3 −
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂D˜
)
· ˙˜D
+
(
∂φ˜
∂ν˜0
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂ν˜0
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂ν˜0
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂ν˜0
)
· ∇ν˜0 +
(
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂g˜1
⊗ g˜1
)
· ∇v˜
+
(
∂φ˜
∂ν˜
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂ν˜
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂ν˜
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂ν˜
)
· g˜1 +
(
∂φ˜
∂γ˜
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂γ˜
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂γ˜
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂γ˜
)
· g˜2
+
(
∂φ˜
∂ ˙˜ν + λ˜
v · ∂ t˜
∂ ˙˜ν + λ˜
ν ∂h˜
∂ ˙˜ν −
1
θ
∂ q˜
∂ ˙˜ν −
γ˜ ν˜
θ
∂ψ˜
∂g˜1
+
{
0
h
F

θ
)
· ∇ ˙˜ν
+
(
∂φ˜
∂g˜1
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂g1
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂g˜1
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂g˜1
)
· ∇g˜1 +
t˜ · D˜
θ
− γ˜ ν˜λ˜v · ˙˜v − λ˜γ γ˜ ν˜∇ · v˜
+
(
∂φ˜
∂g˜2
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂g2
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂g˜2
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂g˜2
)
· ∇g˜2 + λ˜ν
{ f W
γ FνF f F −
{
λν,WνW∇ · vW
0
+
(
∂φ˜
∂θ
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂θ
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂θ
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂θ
)
· g3 +
(
∂φ˜
∂g3
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂g3
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂g3
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂g3
)
· ∇g3
+
(
∂φ˜
∂D˜
+ λ˜v · ∂ t˜
∂D˜
+ λ˜ν ∂h˜
∂D˜
− 1
θ
∂ q˜
∂D˜
}
· ∇D˜ ≥ 0, (22)
where the identity
˙˜g1 = ∇ ˙˜ν − (g˜1)(∇v˜), (23)
has been used, and the notation⊗ stands for dyadic product. LetX be given byX = {˙˜v, ¨˜ν, ˙˜γ, θ˙ , ˙˜g2, g˙3, ˙˜D,∇ν˜0,
∇ ˙˜ν,∇g˜1,∇g˜2,∇g3,∇D˜}. It is straightforward to see that inequality (22) is in the form
a · X + b ≥ 0, (24)
5 In fact, the exclusion of θ˙ in (13) only leads to the result that λe = λˆe(θ). The specific form that λe = 1/θ can only be
derived for some simple substances [20,21]. However, following previous studies this conjecture is justified for dry granular
matters and hence employed here [5–7,15]. Since this conjecture is only affected by the adopted constitutive class, it is valid for
both the Wilmanski’s and the Fang’s models, i.e., θW and θF become identical and are expressed hereafter by a single empirical
temperature θ in the forthcoming analysis
The porosity variation in dry granular matter 127
3.2 Extra entropy flux
We define the extra entropy flux vector k for the two models via the formula
k ≡ φ − q
θ
+ λvt + λνh = φ − q
θ
+ λνh, −→ k˜ ≡
{
kW
kF
}
, (34)
in which (26)1,3 have been used. The quantity k is a measure of the deviation between the entropy flux and
other fluxes; it reduces to a degree of collinearity between the entropy and heat fluxes when no other fluxes
exist. We should discuss it for the two models separately.
3.2.1 The Wilmanski’s model
In view of the constitutive class (15), a vector-valued isotropic constitutive quantity f should satisfy the
condition
Q(τ )fˆ (QW) = fˆ
(
νW0 (t), ν
W(t), ν˙W(t),Q(τ )gW1 (t), γ
W(t),Q(τ )gW2 (t),
θ(t),Q(τ )g3(t),Q(τ )D
W(t)Q(τ )T
)
, (35)
for all time-dependent rotations Q(τ ) at an observer time τ for a specific reference time state t with
Q(τ )QT(τ ) = QT(τ )Q(τ ) = I , where I denotes the second-rank identity tensor. Differentiation of (35)
with respect to τ gives rise to
Q˙f = ∂f
∂
(
QgW1
) (QgW1 )· + ∂f
∂
(
QgW2
) (QgW2 )· + ∂f∂(Qg3) (Qg3)
· + ∂f
∂(QDWQT)
(QDWQT)·. (36)
Since the orthogonality of Q implies that Q˙ = SQ, where S is the skew-symmetric part of Q˙QT, replacing
Q˙ by SQ and letting Q = I in (36) leads to
Sf = ∂f
∂gW1
SgW1 +
∂f
∂gW2
SgW2 +
∂f
∂g3
Sg3 +
∂f
∂DW
[
S,DW
]
, (37)
where [A,B] = AB − BA for two arbitrary second-rank tensors A and B.
Since (37) is valid for any isotropic constitutive vector quantity, and in view of (34) for the Wilmanski’s
model, it follows immediately that
SφW − Sq
W
θ
+ λν,WShW =
(
∂φW
∂gW1
− 1
θ
∂qW
∂gW1
+ λν,W ∂h
W
∂gW1
)
SgW1
+
(
∂φW
∂gW2
− 1
θ
∂qW
∂gW2
+ λν,W ∂h
W
∂gW2
)
SgW2 +
(
∂φW
∂g3
− 1
θ
∂qW
∂g3
+ λν,W ∂h
W
∂g3
)
Sg3
+
(
∂φW
∂DW
− 1
θ
∂qW
∂DW
+ λν,W ∂h
W
∂DW
) [
S,DW
]
, (38)
which reduces to
SkW = A (SgW1 ) + B (SgW2 ) + C(Sg3), (39)
with the abbreviations
A =
(
∂φW
∂gW1
− 1
θ
∂qW
∂gW1
+ λν,W ∂h
W
∂gW1
)
, B =
(
∂φW
∂gW2
− 1
θ
∂qW
∂gW2
+ λν,W ∂h
W
∂gW2
)
,
C =
(
∂φW
∂g3
− 1
θ
∂qW
∂g3
+ λν,W ∂h
W
∂g3
)
.
(40)
The porosity variation in dry granular matter 129
since hW does not vanish in general. Substituting of (34), (40), (45), and (46) into (31)1 yields the constitutive
expression of the flux hW in the form
− γ
WνW
θ
∂ψW
∂gW1
= ∂λ
ν,W
∂ν˙W
hW, (48)
with the functional dependencies of ψW given by
ψW = ψˆW(νW0 , νW,gW1 , γ W, θ), −→ ψW = ψˆW(νW0 , νW,gW1 · gW1 , γ W, θ), (49)
which is identified by using (15) and (27)1−4. In (49) ψW is assumed to be an isotropic scalar function. The flux
hW is thus determined in principle once the free energy ψW and the Lagrange multiplier λν,W are prescribed.
With these, the Liu-identities in the Wilmanski’s model have been fully exploited. We now turn our attention
to the Fang’s model.
3.2.2 The Fang’s model
Substituting (34) into (29) and (30)2,3 yields
0 = ∂k
F
∂DF
, (50)
0 = sym
{
∂kF
∂g
}
, g ∈ {gF2 ,g3} , (51)
in which the fact that λν,F = λˆν,F(·,DF,gF2 ,g3) has been used, for the Lagrangian multiplier λν,F is determined
by (26)5 with the functional dependencies of ψF given by
ψF = ψˆ(νF0 , νF, ν˙F,gF1 , γ F, θ), −→ ψF = ψˆ
(
νF0 , ν, ν˙
F,gF1 · gF1 , γ F, θ
)
, (52)
which is identified by using (15) and (27)5−7. Since (50) indicates that kF is not a function of DF, integrating
(51) results in
kF = AgF2 + Bg3 + C(gF2 ⊗ g3) + dˆ
(
νF0 , ν
F, ν˙F,gF1 , γ
F, θ
)
, (53)
where A and B are the second-rank skew-symmetric tensors, C the third-rank skew-symmetric tensor, and d
an undetermined vector function whose functional dependencies are indicated. Besides, A,B, and C depend
upon νF0 , ν
F, ν˙F,gF1 , γ
F
, and θ , but not on gF2 and g3. Since, moreover, the vector k
F must be isotropic, it
follows immediately that A = B = 0 and C = 0, because there are no isotropic second- and third-rank
skew-symmetric tensors of a single vector-valued argument.
In view of (26)5 and (53), it is plausible to assume that
kF = kˆF (νF0 , νF, ν˙F,gF1 , γ F, θ) = ξˆ (νF0 , νF, ν˙F,gF1 · gF1 , γ F, θ)gF1 , (54)
λν,F = λˆν,F (νF0 , νF, ν˙F,gF1 · gF1 , γ F, θ) , (55)
hold, where ξ is an undetermined isotropic scalar function. Substituting (54)–(55) into (28) yields temporarily
an expression of the flux hF in the form
∂ξ
∂νF0
gF1 =
∂λν,F
∂νF0
hF. (56)
Again, substituting (54)–(56) into (30)1 gives rise to
0 = sym
{
ξI + 2
(
∂ξ
∂(gF1 · gF1)
− ∂λ
ν,F
∂(gF1 · gF1)
∂ξ/∂νF0
∂λν,F/∂νF0
)
gF1 ⊗ gF1
}
, (57)
The porosity variation in dry granular matter 131
With (65), it is plausible to decompose the constitutive variable ℘ listed in (14) into its equilibrium part ℘|E
plus its dynamic part ℘D, viz.,
℘ = ℘|E + ℘D, ℘|E = ℘ˆ|E(Y˜ |E), ℘D = ℘ˆD(Y˜ ), ℘D|E = ℘ˆD(Y˜ |E) = 0, (66)
in which the functional dependencies of ℘˜|E and ℘˜D have been assumed. In addition, the entropy production
π˜ assumes its global minimum value at an equilibrium state, and can be considered an “explicit” function of
Y˜
D having the global minimum located at Y˜ D = 0 according to (62) and (65). It follows that under sufficient
smoothness property π˜ has to satisfy the conditions
π˜, ˙˜ν |E = 0, π˜,D˜ |E = 0, π˜,g3 |E = 0, (67)
and that the Hessian matrix of π˜ with respect to these variables at Y |E, namely,
H|E =
⎛
⎝ π˜, ˙˜ν ˙˜ν π˜, ˙˜νD˜ π˜, ˙˜νg3π˜
, D˜ ˙˜ν π˜, D˜D˜ π˜, D˜g3
π˜
,g3 ˙˜ν π˜,g3D˜ π˜,g3g3
⎞
⎠
|E
(68)
is positive semi-definite. While (67) restrict the equilibrium forms of the dependent constitutive fields, (68)
constrains the sign of the material parameters in them. Here we will only deal with the first condition together
with (64).
First, applying (64)–(62) gives rise to
0 =
{
λν,W|E f W|E
γ FνFλν,F|E f F|E −
(
∂λ˜ν
∂ν˜
|Eh˜|E · g˜1 +
∂λ˜ν
∂γ˜
|Eh˜|E · g˜2
)
, (69)
in which it is noted that g˜1 and g˜2 can still exist in equilibrium. Since in the Wilmanski’s model the Lagrangian
multiplier λν,W remains undetermined, although its functional dependency has been identified, (69) serves as
a constraint which should be satisfied by λν,W|E and f W|E simultaneously. On the other hand, in the Fang’s
model λν,F is determined by (26)5 once the free energy ψF is prescribed, (69)2 thus serves as a constraint
which should be fulfilled by ψF|E alone, for f |E can be expressed as the derivative of ψF, as will be shown
later. Second, applying (67)–(62) yields the equilibrium expressions of the constitutive quantities in the forms
0 =
⎧⎪⎨
⎪⎩
pW − βW − θλν,W|E + θ ∂(λ
ν,W f W)
∂ν˙W
|E
pF|E − βF|E − γ FνF f F|E + θγ FνF ∂(λ
ν,F f F)
∂ν˙F
|E
− θ
(
∂
∂ ˙˜ν
(
∂λ˜ν
∂ν˜
h˜
)
|E · g˜1 +
∂
∂ ˙˜ν
(
∂λ˜ν
∂γ˜
h˜
)
|E · g˜2
)
,
(70)
for the productions f W|E and f F|E;
t˜ |E =
⎧⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎩
−νW(pW − θλν,W|E)I − θλν,W|E ∂ f
W
∂DW
|E
−νF pF|EI − θγ FνFλν,F|E ∂ f
F
∂DF
|E
+ θ h˜|E ⊗ g˜1
⎧⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎩
∂λν,W
∂ν˙W
|E,(
∂λν,F
∂ν˙F
− 
θ
)
|E,
(71)
for the stress tensors tW|E and tF|E; and
q˜|E = θ2
⎧⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎩
λν,W|E ∂ f
W
∂g3
|E
γ FνFλν,F|E ∂ f
F
∂g3
|E
− θ2 ∂λ˜
ν
∂θ
|Eh˜|E, (72)
for the heat fluxes qW|E and qF|E. In deriving (70)–(72) it is noted that pW and βW, in view of (49), (63),
and (65), do not depend on Y˜ D, and thus posses the same functional dependencies at equilibrium and non-
equilibrium states. While (70)1, together with (69)1, serve as two constraints which should be fulfilled by
the specific prescriptions of λν,W|E and f W|E in the Wilmanski’s model, (70)2 defines a partial differential
The porosity variation in dry granular matter 133
namic analysis for the two models again. Under such a circumstance a reduced set of the equilibrium
constitutive equations can directly be obtained from (69)–(72) by noting that the constitutive quantities,
in particular λ˜ν and h˜, do not depend upon ˙˜ν.
iv. For incompressible grains (i.e., γ = const.), γ , and ∇γ are no longer independent arguments in the
constitutive class and should be deleted from it. One can repeat the thermodynamic analysis for the two
models again and will obtain the same results (in particular (69)–(72)), except that the thermodynamic
pressure p = −γ λγ is no longer determined by the expressions (26)2,4 and (63), but should be regarded
as unknown field quantities in the two models, and can be calculated from the momentum equations.
In addition, for incompressible grains the balance of mass (7) reduces to
0 = ν˙ + ν∇ · v, (73)
which becomes an evolution equation of ν. While (73) does no contradict to (6) in the Fang’s model, for
these two equations describe the time evolution of the volume fraction in the first- and second-orders,
respectively, (73) does contradict to (3) in the Wilmanski’s model when h and f do not vanish identically,
for the first-order time evolution of the volume fraction is described by the two different equations simul-
taneously. To avoid such a contradiction, the flux h and the production f should vanish simultaneously
in the Wilmanski’s model, with which the equilibrium stress tensor (71)1 reduces to a spherical tensor
in the form
t = −ν(p − θλν |E)I . (74)
Obviously, such a spherical equilibrium stress tensor corresponds to the hydrostatic pressure tensor of
fluid at rest, and predicts no existence of a granular heap in equilibrium. It is thus concluded that for
dry granular matter a kinematic evolution equation is not sufficient to describe the variation in volume
fraction (or porosity) when the internal friction is not taken into account, for it cannot account for the
normal stress effects exhibited by dry granular matter either in static or in flow situations.
However, this does not imply that the dynamic model is superior to the kinematic model; rather, it
only illustrates the importance of internal friction in the two models for incompressible grains. In the
Wilmanski’s model, an additional description for the internal friction is necessary to avoid spherical
equilibrium stress tensor, whilst the Fang’s model can alone exhibit the normal stress effects without
any additional descriptions of internal friction [5,16].
v. The inappropriateness that the Wilmanski’s model delivers an equilibrium spherical tensor for incom-
pressible grains can be resolved by takeing the internal friction between the grains into account [6,9]: a
second-rank, tensor-valued spatial internal variable Z can be introduced to account for the internal fric-
tion and other non-conservative forces inside a granular microcontinuum. The thermodynamic analysis
can be repeated and the results show that a generalized non-spherical equilibrium stress tensor can still
be obtained in the Wilmanski’s model with vanishing h and f . The same analysis can also be carried
out for the Fang’s model. Based on these approaches, two complete thermodynamically consistent con-
stitutive models can be established, which are applied to study the volume fraction and velocity profiles
of an isothermal dry granular slow flow with incompressible grains down an inclined moving plane.
The obtained results are then compared with experimental outcomes to illuminate detailed performance
and limitations of these two approaches [25,26]. Typical calculated profiles of dimensionless volume
fraction and velocity profiles are shown in Fig. 1, in which the vertical axis denotes the dimension-
less distance from the moving solid plane, while the horizontal axis indicates the calculated values of
either the dimensionless volume fraction or the velocity.7 While the two approaches deliver an almost
linear velocity profile across the fluid layer, the obtained volume fraction profile from the Wilmanski’s
approach exhibits the same tendency of the experimental result; that from the Fang’s approach has,
however, a reverse tendency. These are due to the facts that the experimental outcomes correspond to
flows with small to moderate speeds [25]. For dry granular flows with slow to moderate speeds, the
interactions among the grains are mainly long-term enduring contacts forming a likely elastic network,
with which the time evolution of porosity experiences no strong variation, and can be described by using
kinematic-type equations. On the contrary, for very rapid flows, the interactions among the grains are
7 In the figure the calculated volume fraction ν¯ is defined as ν¯ = ν/νm , where νm is the critical volume fraction at which
the dilatancy is decoupled from the shearing. From this perspective, ν¯ is the relative value and may exceed 1 in some places.
Nevertheless, its absolute value, namely ν, is always less than 1 in all places. In addition, the calculated velocity u¯ is equally the
relative value defined as u¯ = u/V0 with V0 the velocity of the moving plane.
The porosity variation in dry granular matter 135
0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
−1 −0.5 0 0.5 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1(a) (b)
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
-0.2
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 -1 -0.5 0 0.5 1
0
1.2
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
-0.2
0
0.85 0.9 0.95 1 1.05
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
−1 −0.5 0 0.5 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
(c)
(e)
(d)
(f)
Fig. 1 Typical calculated profiles of dimensionless volume fraction ν¯ and velocity u¯ from the Wilmanski’s and the Fang’s
approaches. a–b: results from the Wilmanski’s approach; c–d: results from the Fang’s approach; e–f: experimental results [25]
References
1. Duran, J.: Sands, Powders and Grains. Springer, New York (2000)
2. Rao, K.K., Nott, P.R.: Introduction to Granular Flows. Cambridge University Press, London, New York (2008)
3. Pudasaini, S., Hutter, K.: Avalanche Dynamics. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2007)
4. Takahashi, T.: Debris Flows: Mechanics, Predictions and Countermeasures. Taylor & Francis, New York (2007)
5. Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: A thermo-mechanical continuum theory with internal length for cohesionless granular
materials. Part I. A class of constitutive models. Continuum Mech. Thermodyn. 17(8), 545–576 (2006)
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992
DOI 10.1007/s00397-009-0378-4
ORIGINAL CONTRIBUTION
Gravity-driven dry granular slow flows down an inclined
moving plane: a comparative study between two concepts
of the evolution of porosity
Chung Fang
Received: 27 October 2008 / Accepted: 7 July 2009 / Published online: 22 July 2009
© Springer-Verlag 2009
Abstract Two concepts in modeling the effects of the
evolution of porosity in dry granular flows are investi-
gated to illuminate their performance and limitations.
To this end, the thermodynamic analysis, based on the
Müller-Liu entropy principle, and the quasi-linear the-
ory, are employed to deduce the ultimate constitutive
models and the restrictions on their thermodynamic
consistencies. The models are employed to study an
isothermal dry granular slow flow down an inclined
moving plane, of which the results are compared with
the experimental outcomes. Results show that, while
the two models deliver appropriate equilibrium ex-
pressions of the Cauchy stress tensor for compressible
grains, the model in which the evolution of porosity
is treated kinematically yields a spherical stress ten-
sor for incompressible grains. Only the model with a
dynamic evolution of porosity can give rise to a non-
spherical stress tensor at equilibrium. Moreover, whilst
the former model can better capture the characteristics
of flows with slow to moderate speeds, the latter model
is more able to describe the features of very rapid flows
like avalanches. The present study illustrates the essen-
tial difference between the two concepts in modeling
the effects of the evolution of porosity, and can be
extended for further studies on other microstructural
effects in granular flows.
Keywords Granular matter · Evolution of porosity ·
Müller-Liu entropy principle · Gravity-driven flow
C. Fang (B)
Department of Civil Engineering,
National Cheng Kung University, No.1,
University Road, Tainan City 701, Taiwan
e-mail: cfang@mail.ncku.edu.tw
Introduction
Dry granular flows are encountered in many different
forms and various contexts in geophysical phenom-
ena and industrial processes. Apart from these prac-
tical applications, they are also of particular interest
in scientific study due to their complex characteristics
resulting from the interactions among the constitut-
ing grains (Duran 2000; Hutter and Rajagopal 1994;
Savage 1993; Wang and Hutter 2001). Such interac-
tions, in the context of continuum mechanics approach,
are conventionally treated as the microstructural effects
of the granular continua exhibiting coupled elastic,
viscous, and plastic features simultaneously. Among
the known microstructural effects, such as the varia-
tion in porosity, the shape and density of the grains,
and the friction and abrasion on the surfaces of the
grains, etc., is the variation in porosity  most important
(Fang et al. 2006a, b; Kirchner 2002; Svendsen et al.
1999). It indicates the effects of the redistribution of
the pore space at the microscale on the behavior at
the macroscale. However, since pore space is simply
empty space without any significant physical quantities,
it is often represented in literature by another quantity,
namely, the volume fraction ν, defined as the solid
volume divided by the total volume of a representative
volume element (RVE) viz.,
 = 1 − ν. (1)
Instead of porosity, we should extensively use the con-
cept of volume fraction to discuss the effects of the pore
space in the present study.
The microstructural effects induced by the variation
in volume fraction is commonly accounted for by intro-
ducing a scalar balance law (Wang and Hutter 2001).
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 973
isothermal, gravity-driven dry granular slow flow with
incompressible grains down an inclined moving plane
in “Numerical simulations.” The numerical results of
the profiles of the volume fraction and velocity for the
two models should be compared with each other and
also with experimental outcomes quoted from previ-
ous works in literature to estimate the model validity.
The paper will be summarized in “Conclusions and
discussions.” Three appendices are also provided for
the detailed derivations of the thermodynamic analysis.
State variables and balance equations
Dry granular flow is considered a time-dependent
elasto-visco-plastic continuum with the state variables
prescribed by
Q = {ν0, ν, ν˙, g1, γ, g2, θ, g3, L, Z}, (3)
where g1 = ∇ν, g2 = ∇γ , g3 = ∇θ , L = ∇v, and Z, a
second-rank symmetric tensor, an abstract idea rep-
resenting frictional and other nonconservative forces
between the grains inside a granular RVE, which will
be discussed later in a detailed way. In Eq. 3, ν0 is
the value of ν in the reference configuration, which is
included due to its influence on the behavior of flowing
granular materials (Goodman and Cowin 1971; Ko and
Scott 1967). The omission of the velocity v in Eq. 3 goes
back to the requirement of material frame indifference.
Strictly, γ˙ and θ˙ should be included in Eq. 3 to satisfy
Truesdell’s equi-presence principle. Since it is assumed
that the variation in γ is small, it is plausible to neglect γ˙
as an independent argument in state space. In addition,
although the exclusion of θ˙ will cause an indifference
between the empirical and absolute temperatures, and
leads to an infinite propagation speed of a small thermal
pulse in the material (Hutter 1977; Müller 1985),2 it is
rather rare and unimportant for most granular materi-
als like soils, and is omitted here for practical useful-
ness. In Eq. 3, ν0, ν, ν˙, g1, γ , and g2 are used to capture
the elastic effects, which correspond to ρ, ρ˙, and ∇ρ
for complex rheological fluids; θ and g3 represent the
temperature-dependency of physical properties, while
L is employed for the viscous effects.
2While, in the context of Clausius-Duhem and Coleman-Noll
approach, the inclusion/omission of θ˙ in the state space yields
an elliptic/parabolic heat equation, resulting in an infinite prop-
agation speed of thermal disturbances, the inclusion of θ˙ may
give rise to a hyperbolic heat equation in the context of Müller-
Liu approach with certain restrictions to the functionals of the
internal energy and the Lagrangian multipliers, although these
restrictions can only be analyzed for simple materials.
To account for the effects of plasticity, an Euclidean
frame-indifferent, stress-like, symmetric second-rank
tensor (a spatial internal variable) Z is introduced,
which is used to describe the frictional and other non-
conservative forces inside a granular microcontinuum.3
It is a phenomenological generalization of the Mohr-
Coulomb model for internal friction in a granular ma-
terial at low energy and high-grain volume fraction,
which is motivated by the considerations of statistical
mechanics (Pitteri 1986; Svendsen 1999; Svendsen et al.
1999).
With the principle of material objectivity, Eq. 3 can
alternatively be expressed in the form
Q = {ν0, ν, ν˙, g1, γ, g2, θ, g3, D, Z}, (4)
where D is the symmetric part of L, known as the
stretching tensor (strain rate tensor).
The time evolutions of the state variables are de-
scribed, respectively, by the following conventional
balances of mass, linear momentum, angular momen-
tum, internal energy, internal friction, and entropy, viz.
(Fang et al. 2006a, b)
0 = γ˙ ν + γ ν˙ + γ ν∇·v, (5)
0 = γ νv˙ − ∇·t − γ νb, (6)
0 = t − tT, (7)
0 = γ νe˙ − t · D + ∇·q − γ νr + ℵ˜, (8)
0 = Z˚ − Φ, (Z˚ ≡ Z˙ − [Ω, Z]), (9)
0 = γ νη˙ + ∇·φ − γ νs − π, π ≥ 0, (10)
with the abbreviations
[Ω, Z] = Ω Z − ZΩ,
ℵ˜ =
{ℵW
ℵF
}
=
{
0
−h · ∇ν˙ + γ ν fν˙
}
, (11)
where t is the Cauchy stress tensor, b is the specific
body force, tT is the transposition of t, e is the specific
internal energy, q is the heat flux, r is the specific energy
3Here, we apply the concept of microcontinuum (Eringen and
Kadafar 1976; Mindlin 1964) and regard a RVE as a deformable
“granular microcontinuum.” In this respect, the Cauchy stress
tensor is a constitutive quantity of the granular microcontinuum,
while Z describes the internal friction and other non-conservative
forces inside the granular microcontinuum, which cannot be seen
from the perspective outside the microcontinuum. Naturally,
there should exist a relation between t and Z. Such a relation
is partly an objective of the paper and can be deduced by use of
the second law of thermodynamics, as will be shown in the next
section.
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 975
in which the superscript again denotes to which model it
belongs, e.g., tW denotes the Cauchy stress tensor when
the evolution of ν is modeled by using Eq. 22, while
tF represents the same quantity in which the evolution
of ν is described by using Eq. 25. With Eq. 14, the
entropy inequalities (Eq. 13) for the two models can be
expressed in a single inequality, viz.,
π˜ = θ−1γ˜ ν˜
( ˙˜e − θ˙ η˜ − ˙˜ψ
)
+ ∇·φ˜ − γ˜ ν˜s
−λ˜γ (γ˜ ˙˜ν + ˙˜γ ν˜ + γ˜ ν˜∇·v)
−θ−1
(
γ˜ ν˜ ˙˜e − t˜ · D˜ + ∇·q˜ − γ˜ ν˜r + ℵ˜
)
−
{
λν,W(ν˙W + νW∇·vW − ∇·hW − f W)
λν,F(γ FνFν¨F − ∇·hF − γ FνF f F)
−λ˜v ·
(
γ˜ ν˜ ˙˜v − ∇·t˜ − γ˜ ν˜b
)
−λ˜Z · ( ˙˜Z − [Ω˜, Z˜] − Φ˜) ≥ 0, (15)
where the abbreviations
ψ˜ =
{
ψW
ψF
}
, with
{
ψW = eW − θηW,
ψF = eF − θηF, (16)
and the conjecture that λe = 1/θ have been used, in
which ψ is the Helmholtz free energy defined in a
conventional way.8 Equation 15 is the starting point of
our thermodynamic analysis. Although straightforward
and simple, the calculations are tedious. To focus on
the results found, the detailed derivations are given in
Appendix A.
The Lagrange multipliers λ˜
v
, λ˜γ , λ˜ν , and λ˜
Z
are
given by
λv,W = 0, λγ,W = −θ−1γ WψW
, γ W
,
λZ ,W = −θ−1γ WνWψW
, ZW
, λv,F = 0,
λγ,F = −θ−1γ FψF
, γ F
, λν,F = −(θ)−1ψF
, ν˙F
,
λZ ,F = −θ−1γ FνFψF
, ZF
, (17)
8These are due to the fact that θ˙ is not included in the state
variables. In fact, the exclusion of θ˙ in Eq. 4 only leads to the
result that λe = λˆe(θ). The specific form of λe = 1/θ can only be
derived for some simple substances (Hutter 1977; Müller 1985).
However, following previous works, this conjecture is justified
and employed here (Fang et al. 2006a, b; Wang and Hutter 1999a,
b). Since this conjecture is only affected by the adopted state
space, it is valid for both the Wilmanski’s and the Fang’s models,
i.e., no distinction between θW and θF needs to be made, and only
one empirical temperature θ exists in the forthcoming analyses.
and the restrictions
0 = ψW, α, α ∈
{
ν˙W, gW2 , g
W
3 , D
W} ,
0 = ψF, β , β ∈
{
gF2 , g
F
3 , D
F} , (18)
on the free energies ψW and ψF are obtained, with
which the possible functional dependencies of ψW and
ψF will be reduced from their general formulations
(Eq. 4), as will be discussed in the next subsection.
Moreover, the identities
0 = φ˜, ν˜0 + λ˜ν h˜, ν˜0 − θ−1q˜, ν˜0, (19)
0 = φ˜, A + λ˜ν h˜, A − θ−1q˜, A, A ∈ {D˜, Z˜}, (20)
0 = sym
{
φ˜, g + λ˜ν h˜, g − θ−1q˜, g
}
, g ∈ { g˜1−2, g3}, (21)
0 = θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, g˜1 −
{
φ˜, ˙˜ν + λ˜ν h˜, ˙˜ν − θ−1q˜, ˙˜ν
}
−
{
0
θ−1hF
, (22)
among φ˜, h˜, and q˜ hold, in which Eq. 171,4 have been
used, and sym{A} stands for the symmetric part of the
second-rank tensor A. Lastly, we conclude that
η˜ = −ψ˜, θ , λ˜Z Z˜ = Z˜λ˜Z . (23)
The residual entropy inequality then reads
π˜ = −
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, ν˜ + λ˜γ γ˜ +
{
λν,W
θ−1γ FνF f F
)
˙˜ν
+
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, g˜1 ⊗ g˜1
)
· ∇v˜v + λ˜Z · Φ˜
+
(
φ˜, ν˜ + λ˜ν h˜, ν˜ − θ−1q˜, ν˜
)
· g˜1
+
(
φ˜, γ˜ + λ˜ν h˜, γ˜ − θ−1q˜, γ˜
)
· g˜2
+θ−1 t˜ · D˜ − λ˜γ γ˜ ν˜∇·v˜
+
(
φ˜, θ + λ˜ν h˜, θ − θ−1q˜, θ
)
· g3
+λ˜ν
{
f W
γ FνF f F
−
{
λν,WνW∇·vW
0 ≥ 0, (24)
where ⊗ denotes dyadic product. The obtained
Lagrange multipliers and the residual entropy inequal-
ity correspond to those derived in previous works, ex-
cept that different microstructural effects are accounted
for in Eq. 24 (Fang et al. 2006a, b; Goodman and Cowin
1972; Kirchner 2002; Svendsen et al. 1999).
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 977
Thermodynamic equilibrium
In the current formulation, thermodynamic equilibrium
is defined to be a time-independent process with uni-
form thermodynamic field quantities and vanishing en-
tropy production given by (Hutter and Wang 2003)
π˜ |E = 0, (34)
where the subscript E indicates that the indexed quan-
tity is evaluated in thermodynamic equilibrium. In ad-
dition, under the sufficient smoothness property, π˜ has
to satisfy the conditions
π˜, ˙˜ν |E = 0, π˜, D˜|E = 0, π˜, g3 |E = 0, (35)
and that the Hessian matrix of π˜ with respect to ˙˜ν, D,
and g3 at thermodynamic equilibrium is positive semi-
definite (for details, see Appendix C). While the first
condition restricts the equilibrium forms of the depen-
dent constitutive fields, the second condition constrains
the sign of the material parameters in them. Here, we
will only deal with Eq. 35 together with Eq. 34.
First, applying Eq. 34 to Eq. 32 gives rise to
0 =
⎧
⎨
⎩
θλν,W
∣
∣
E f
W
∣
∣
Eγ
WνWψW
, ZW
· ΦW∣∣E
θγ FνFλν,F
∣
∣
E f
F
∣
∣
E − γ FνFψF, ZF
∣
∣
E · ΦF
∣
∣
E
− θ
(
λ˜ν , ν˜
∣
∣
E h˜
∣
∣
E · g˜1 + λ˜ν , γ˜
∣
∣
E h˜
∣
∣
E · g˜2
)
, (36)
in which it is noted that g˜1 and g˜2 can possess
certain values in equilibrium, and ψF assumes differ-
ent functional dependencies in equilibrium and non-
equilibrium states, whilst the functional dependencies
of ψW are the same in both equilibrium and non-
equilibrium states. Since, in Wilmanski’s model, the
Lagrangian multiplier λν,W remains undetermined,
Eq. 36 serves as a constraint that should be satisfied by
λν,W|E and f W|E. On the other hand, in Fang’s model,
λν,F is determined by Eq. 176 once the free energy
ψF is prescribed; Eq. 36 thus serves as a constraint
that should be fulfilled by ψF|E alone, for f |E can be
expressed as the derivative of ψF, as will be shown later.
Second, Eq. 35 yields the equilibrium expressions of
the constitutive quantities in the forms
0 =
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
pW − βW − θλν,W∣∣E + θ(λν,W f W), ν˙W
∣
∣
E
−γ WνWψW
, ZW
· ΦW
, ν˙W
∣
∣
E
pF
∣∣
E − βF
∣∣
E − γ FνFf F
∣∣
E + θγ FνF·
(λν,F f F), ν˙F
∣
∣
E − γ FνF
(
ψF
, ZF
· ΦF
)
, ν˙F
∣
∣∣
E
− θ
((
λ˜ν, ν˜ h˜
)
, ˙˜ν
∣
∣
∣
E
· g˜1 +
(
λ˜ν, γ˜ h˜
)
, ˙˜ν
∣
∣
∣
E
· g˜2
)
, (37)
for the productions f W|E and f F|E;
t˜|E =
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
−νW(pW − θλν,W∣∣E
)
I − θλν,W∣∣E f W, DW
∣
∣
E
+γ WνWψW
, ZW
ΦW
, DW
∣∣
E
−νF pF∣∣E I − θγ FνFλν,F
∣
∣
E f
F
, DF
∣
∣
E
+γ FνFψF
, ZF
∣
∣
EΦ
F
, DF
∣
∣
E
+ θ h˜∣∣E ⊗ g˜1
⎧
⎨
⎩
λ
ν,W
, ν˙W
∣
∣
E,
(
λ
ν,F
, ν˙F
− θ−1
) ∣∣
E,
(38)
for the stress tensors tW|E and tF|E; and
q˜ = θ2
⎧
⎨
⎩
λν,W
∣
∣
E f
W
, g3
∣
∣
E − θ−1γ WνWψW, ZWΦW, g3
∣
∣
E
γ FνFλν,F
∣∣
E f
F
, g3
∣∣
E − θ−1γ FνFψF, ZF
∣∣
EΦ
F
, g3
∣∣
E
− θ2λ˜ν, θ
∣
∣
E h˜
∣
∣
E, (39)
for the heat fluxes qW|E and qF|E. In deriving Eqs. 37–
39, it is noted that pW and βW, in view of Eqs. 29, 30, 33,
and 96, do not depend on Y˜
D
. While Eqs. 371 and 361
serve as two constraints that should be fulfilled by the
specific prescriptions of λν,W|E and f W|E in Wilmanski’s
model, Eq. 372 defines a partial differential equation for
f F|E in Fang’s model, and can further be simplified to
yield an explicit expression of f F|E if ψF is assumed not
to depend on ν˙, which is a suitable assumption for slow
granular flows and was employed frequently in previous
works (Fang et al. 2006a, b; Goodman and Cowin 1972;
Kirchner 2002; Wang and Hutter 1999a, b). Equation 38
is the obtained constitutive expression of the equilib-
rium Cauchy stress tensors for the two models. They are
essentially non-spherical tensors when g˜1 vanishes due
to the dependencies of f˜ on D˜ and the existence of the
internal friction revealed by the functional dependency
of ψ˜ on Z˜. It implies that a granular heap can still
exist in static equilibrium under uniform distributions
of the grains, provided that f˜ or the internal friction
exists. Lastly, Eq. 39 shows a non-vanishing “general-
ized” heat flux in thermodynamic equilibrium for the
two models, which does not need to correspond to its
physical counterpart, for, unlike the first and second
terms on its right-hand side denoting the physical heat
flux due to the tempersture difference g3, the third term
indicates the “equivalent” heat flux induced by the re-
distributions of the surfae grains. Alternatively, it leads
to an additional restriction among λν,W|E and f W|E in
Wilmanski’s model and on ΦF|E in Fang’s model if q˜ is
required to vanish in equilibrium.
Obviously, the equilibrium expressions of constitu-
tive quantities Eqs. 36–39 are, in general, determined
once the Helmholtz free energy is prescribed. Before
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 979
those obtained from previous works (Fang et al.
2006a, b; Kirchner 2002; Wang and Hutter 1999a).
Constitutive models
Non-equilibrium responses
In view of Eq. 97, the non-equilibrium (dynamic) re-
sponses of the constitutive quantities are assumed to
depend explicitly on Y˜
D
for the implementations of the
constitutive equations. Specifically, it is assumed that t˜D
and f˜ D depend explicitly and quasi-linearly on ˙˜ν and
D˜, while q˜D depend explicitly and quasi-linearly on g3
in the forms
t˜D = ˜ ˙˜ν I + λ˜(trD˜)I + 2μ˜D˜,
f˜ D = −ς˜ ν˙ − δ˜(trD˜), q˜D = −κ˜ g3, (44)
with the abbreviations
t˜D =
{
(tW)D
(tF)D
}
, q˜D =
{
(qW)D
(qF)D
}
,
f˜ D =
{
( f W)D
( f F)D
}
, ε˜D =
{
(εW)D
(εF)D
}
,
λ˜D =
{
(λW)D
(λF)D
}
, μ˜D =
{
(μW)D
(μF)D
}
,
ς˜D =
{
(ςW)D
(ςF)D
}
, δ˜D =
{
(δW)D
(δF)D
}
,
κ˜D =
{
(κW)D
(κF)D
}
. (45)
Again, Eq. 45 is used to distinguish the indexed quanti-
ties to which model they belong. The coefficients ˜, λ˜, μ˜,
ς˜ , δ˜, and κ˜ are scalar quantities of which the functional
dependencies, as a special case of linearity, are assumed
to be
κ˜, ˜, ς˜ = f unct.(ν˜0, ν˜, γ˜ , θ˜ ),
λ˜, μ˜, δ˜ = f unct.(ν˜0, ν˜, γ˜ , θ˜ , ID˜, IID˜, IIID˜, IZ˜, IIZ˜, IIIZ˜),
(46)
where IA˜, IIA˜ and IIIA˜ are the three invariants of the
tensor A˜ given by
IA˜ = trA˜, IIA˜ = 12
(
tr2 A˜ − trA˜2
)
,
IIIA˜ = detA˜. (47)
These coefficients are determined essentially by com-
paring the numerical results with experimental out-
comes. This may be a cumbersome procedure, possibly
involving inverse techniques.10
The complete constitutive equations should be for-
mulated for isothermal dry granular flows with incom-
pressible grains in the two models. To achieve this, the
free energy ψ , the viscosity μ, and the production of
the evolution of internal friction Φ needs be prescribed.
We should discuss them in order. In addition, instead of
presenting the results by the “tidal symbols” employed
previously, the results are displayed separately for the
two models in the remainder of the paper for clarity.
Helmholtz free energy, viscosity and hypoplasticity
For isothermal dry granular flows with incompressible
grains, it is plausible to assume that the free energy ψ ,
in view of Eqs. 29 and 30 and the assumption of ψF 	=
ψˆF(·, ν˙F), can be expressed as a direct sum of an elastic
part, ψˆe, and a plastic part, ψˆ f, in unit mass basis, viz.,
ψ = ψˆe(ν0, ν, γ, θ) + ψˆ f(Z), isotropy−→
ψ = ψˆe(ν0, ν, γ, θ) + ψˆ f(IZ, IIZ, IIIZ), (48)
for the Wilmanski’s model, and
ψ = ψˆe(ν0, ν, γ, θ, g1) + ψˆ f(Z),
isotropy−→
ψ = ψˆe(ν0, ν, γ, θ, g1 · g1) + ψˆ f(IZ, IIZ, IIIZ), (49)
for Fang’s model. In deriving Eq. 48, it is noted that hW
vanishes for incompressible grains, with which Eq. 28
leads to the result that ψW 	= ψˆW(·, gW1 ). In Eqs. 48
and 49, the plastic effects are confined within ψ f in the
two models, and the coupling effects between g1 and
Z are neglected in Fang’s model for simplicity (Fang
et al. 2006b, d; Kirchner 2002; Hutter et al. 1999). In
addition, although the two ψe values in the two models
are different, the two ψ f values are assumed to be the
same, since they depend only on the three invariants
of Z, whose time evolution should be balanced by the
same production Φ for the two models, as will be shown
later.
Following previous works (Fang 2008a; Fang et al.
2006b; Goodman and Cowin 1971; Passman et al. 1980;
Wang and Hutter 1999a), ψe is assumed to be expand-
able in a Taylor series about ν = νm in Wilmanski’s
model, and about ν = νm and |g1| = 0 in the Fang’s
10Formulations 44–47 are relatively simple. Since the focus of
our study is on the intercomparison between the two concepts
in modeling the effects of the evolution of porosity, it is sensible
to work with these simpler quasi-linear forms to concentrate on
the subject.
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 981
for Wilmanski’s model, and
h = 2β0

γ ν
(
νm
ν∞ − ν
)2
g1,
f = p
γ ν
− 2

(
α0(ν − νm) + β0 ν
2
m
(ν∞ − ν)3 g1 · g1
)
−ςν˙ − δtrD, (55)
t = (−νp + ν˙ + λtrD)I + fs
(
ζ1 I + ζ2 Z + ζ3 Z2
)
−2β0γ ν
(
νm
ν∞ − ν
)2
g1 ⊗ g1
+2μ0γ 2
(
νm
ν∞ − ν
)8 √|IID|D,
for Fang’s model. In deriving Eqs. 54 and 55,
the Cayley–Hamilton theorem and the notations of
c1 = ψˆ f,IZ , c2 = ψˆ f,IIZ , c3 = ψˆ f,IIIZ , (IZ), Z = I, (IIZ), Z =
IZ I − Z, (IIIZ), Z = IIIZ Z−1, together with
ζ1 = a2(c1 + c2 IZ) − c3a2 IIZ IIIZ,
ζ2 = (c1 + c2 IZ)(IZ)−1 − c2(a2 + (IZ)−2trZ2)
+c3 IIIZ(3(IZ)−2 + a2 IZ),
ζ3 = c3a2 III2Z, (56)
have been used. The terms inside the second and third
brackets in Eqs. 544 and 553, respectively, represent the
hypoplastic effect in the two models. The field equa-
tions for isothermal granular flows with incompressible
grains in the two models can, in principle, be obtained
by substituting Eqs. 53–55 into Eq. 22 (or Eq. 25),
Eqs. 5–6 and 9 with γ = constant. In these formulations,
the thermodynamic pressure p, the volume fraction
ν, the velocity v, and the internal friction tensor Z are
the unknown state variables. Since the system is likely
mathematically well-posed, the derived two constitu-
tive models will be applied in the next section to study
a dry granular flow down an inclined moving plane to
illuminate their difference in a detailed way.
In applying Eqs. 54 and 55, the phenomenological
parameters , λ, fs, μ0, α0, β0, a, ς , δ, νm, and ν∞ need
be prescribed for specific materials. These are accom-
plished by comparing numerical results with experi-
mental outcomes, possibly involved inverse technique,
which are illustrated in the following section.
Numerical simulations
Consider a steady, fully developed, isothermal, dry
granular flow with incompressible grains down an in-
clined moving plane with the coordinate system shown
in Fig. 1. The flow thickness is L with a free upper
surface, and the lower solid plane is moving with a
constant velocity V0 in the direction oppositional to the
flow direction. The motion is driven by the interaction
between the gravity and the motion of the lower solid
plane.
Governing equations and boundary conditions
For the considered problem, it is plausible to assume
that the parallel flow prevails, namely,
v=[u(y), 0, 0], ν= νˆ(y), p= pˆ(y),
Zij = Zˆij(y), {i, j} ∈ {x, y, z}, b=[−bsinθ,−bcosθ, 0],
(57)
hold, where u(y) and Zij are, respectively, the velocity
component in the x direction and the components of
the internal friction tensor Z. Substituting Eq. 57 into
Eqs. 6 and 25 results in the balance equations in the
reduced forms
dtxy
dy
− γ νbsinθ = 0, dtyy
dy
− γ νbcosθ = 0,
dhy
dy
+ γ ν f = 0, (58)
where Eq. 581,2 are the linear momentum balances
in the x and y directions, respectively, and Eq. 583
is the balance of equilibrated force (i.e., the reduced
form of Eq. 25). While Eq. 581,2 are valid for both
Wilmanski’s and Fang’s models, Eq. 583 applies only
for Fang’s model. It is also noted that, with the
Fig. 1 Gravity-driven dry granular slow flow down an inclined
moving plane and the coordinate system
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 983
for the two unknowns u(y) and ν(y), respectively, in
Wilmanski’s model. In a similar way, substituting Eq. 63
into Eq. 58 yields three field equations
0 = d
dy
(
1 − νs
1 − ν
(
ζ2 Zxy + ζ3 Z 2xy
)
+2μ0γ 2
(
νm
ν∞ − ν
)8 (du
dy
)2 )
− γ νbsinθ,
0 = dtyy
dy
− γ νbcosθ,
0 = d
dy
(
2β0

γ ν
(
νm
ν∞ − ν
)2 dν
dy
)
+ 1
ν
(
− tyy
+1 − νs
1 − ν
(
ζ1 + ζ2 Z yy + ζ3 Z 2yy
)
− 2α0γ ν2(ν − νm)
−2β0γ
(
νm
ν∞ − ν
)2
νν∞
ν∞ − ν
(
dν
dy
)2 )
, (65)
for the three unknowns u(y), tyy(y) (and, hence, p(y),
in view of Eq. 633), and ν(y), respectively, in Fang’s
model. The formulations Eqs. 64 and 65 exhibit two
features: (1) the same non-linear ODE emerges for u(y)
and (2) this ODE is, however, influenced by the profile
of ν(y), which is governed by different equations in the
two models. This implies a one-way influence of ν(y)
on u(u), and the numerical calculation scheme should
follow this order for better numerical stability.
Boundary conditions originate from the interactions
(essentially inelastic collisions and frictional sliding)
between the boundaries and the grains near the bound-
aries. It has been shown that the boundaries behave as
energy sources/sinks of the fluctuating kinetic energies
of the grains, and the field quantities may suffer random
fluctuations about their mean values (Hanes et al. 1988;
Hui et al. 1984). Moreover, the traditional “no-slip”
condition for the velocity may not be valid for most
dry granular flows due to the slipping of the grains
on the boundaries (Hanes and Inman 1985; Savage
1979). Since the numerical results should be compared
with the experimental outcomes (Perng et al. 2006), in
which the gravity-driven steady flow down an inclined
moving plane is accomplished by using a circulating
conveyor belt with a transversal groove of trapezoidal
shape in the size slightly larger than the grain size, it
is plausible to assume that, on the moving solid plane,
the no-slip condition is still valid for the velocity, and
the volume fraction approaches a fixed value due to the
trapping of the grains. In addition, since the steady flow
is accomplished by discharging a constant mass flux in
experiments, the thickness of the flow is fixed, and the
shear force on the free surface is essentially negligible
due to the significant density difference between the
granular flow and the air above it. However, the air may
be swirled into the flow, causing a certain normal force
on the free surface. With these, the velocity and volume
fraction gradients on the free surface should vanish, and
the boundary conditions are thus given by
u|y=0 = V0, ν|y=0 = νb ;
du
dy
∣∣
∣
y=L
= 0, dν
dy
∣∣
∣
y=L
= 0, tyy
∣
∣
y=L = tb ,
(66)
where νb and tb are the boundary values of ν and tyy
on the solid and free boundaries, respectively. While
only Eq. 661−3 applies to Wilmanski’s model, Eq. 661−5
apply to Fang’s model.
Nondimensionalization Define the dimensionless pa-
rameters according to
y¯ = y
L
, u¯ = u
V0
, ν¯ = ν
νm
, ν¯b = νb
νm
,
ν¯∞ = ν∞
νm
, ν¯s = νs
νm
, π¯ = −tyy
α0γ ν3m
, S1 = νmb L
3
μ0γ V20
,
S2 = b L
α0ν2m
, Ξ1 =
(ζ2 Zxy + ζ3 Z 2xy)L2
μ0γ V20
,
Ξ2 =
ζ1 + ζ2 Z yy + ζ3 Z 2yy
α0γ ν3m
. (67)
Substituting Eq. 67 into Eqs. 64–66 gives rise to the
dimensionless field equations of the two models in the
forms
0 = d
dy¯
(
Ξ1
1 − νmν¯s
1 − νmν¯ +
2
(ν¯∞ − ν¯)8
(
du¯
dy¯
)2)
−S1ν¯sinθ,
0 = d
dy¯
(
2ν¯2(ν¯ − 1) − Ξ2 1 − νmν¯s1 − νmν¯
)
+ S2ν¯cosθ, (68)
for Wilmanski’s model, and
0 = d
dy¯
(
Ξ1
1 − νmν¯s
1 − νmν¯ +
2
(ν¯∞ − ν¯)8
(
du¯
dy¯
)2)
−S1ν¯sinθ,
0 = dπ¯
dy¯
+ S2ν¯cosθ,
0 = d
dy¯
(
2
(ν¯∞ − ν¯)2
dν¯
dy¯
)
+ 1
ν¯
(
π¯ + Ξ2 1 − νmν¯s1 − νmν¯
−2ν¯2(ν¯ − 1) − 2 ν¯ν¯∞
(ν¯∞ − ν¯)3
(
dν¯
dy¯
)2 )
, (69)
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 985
define two linear boundary-value problems for ν¯k+1
and u¯k+1. By means of the finite-difference method,
two linear algebraic equation systems can be deduced
and solved for each iterative step (k + 1). Therefore,
sequences of functions ν¯(0)(y¯), ν¯(1)(y¯), ν¯(2)(y¯), · · · and
u¯(0)(y¯), u¯(1)(y¯), u¯(2)(y¯), · · · are determined in the follow-
ing manner: if the initial estimated ν¯(0)(y¯) and u¯(0) (y¯)
are given, then ν¯(1)(y¯), ν¯(2)(y¯), · · · and u¯(1)(y¯), u¯(2)(y¯),
· · · are calculated successively as the solutions of the
boundary-value problem (Eqs. 76 and 77).
To achieve a better convergence, the method of
successive under-relaxation is used. We solve the
boundary-value problem (Eqs. 76 and 77) for the itera-
tive step (k + 1) to obtain estimated values of ν¯k+1 and
u¯k+1: ˜¯νk+1 and ˜¯uk+1, then ν¯k+1 and u¯k+1 are defined by
the formulas
{
ν¯k+1 = ν¯k + ω( ˜¯νk+1 − ν¯k),
u¯k+1 = u¯k + ω( ˜¯uk+1 − u¯k),
0 < ω < 1, (78)
where ω is the under-relaxation parameter; its value
should be chosen so that convergent iterations are
reached.
Numerical results
The dimensionless parameters S1 and S2 in Eq. 67 are
not independent of each other, and S1 can be expressed
as S1 = AS2, where A = α0ν3m L2/μ0γ V20 , which is es-
sentially determined in experiments when the physical
properties of the grains are known. Numerical tests
have shown that only the relative magnitudes of the
ν¯- and u¯-profiles are influenced by the values of A,
but their tendencies remain unchanged. Thus, for sim-
plicity, A is chosen to be a constant in the calcula-
tions to match the experimental setup (Perng et al.
2006). In addition, it is seen from previous works that
the parameters Ξ1 and Ξ2 are of equal importance
(Bauer and Herle 2000; Marcher et al. 2000; Herle and
Gudehus 1999), and thus, the identity Ξ1 = Ξ2 is used
in the numerical simulations. As a parametric study, the
numerical results for the variations in S2 and Ξ1 are
shown in Figs. 2, 3, and 4, in which the horizontal axes
denote the values of 1 − ν¯ and u¯, while the vertical axes
represent the distance y¯ measured from the solid plane.
All calculations are carried out for θ = 15.6◦ to match
the experimental setup (Perng et al. 2006).
Figure 2 illustrates the typical profiles of 1 − ν¯ and
u¯ calculated from the two models, in which S2 = 0.01
and Ξ1 = Ξ2 = 0.01. The profiles of 1 − ν¯ are, in fact,
the profiles of the dimensionless porosity in view of
Eq. 1. Since the detailed information about the values
of νm, νs, and ν∞ of the grains used in experiments is
not clear, the focus is thus on the tendencies displayed
by the calculated profiles of 1 − ν¯ and u¯, but not their
absolute values. It is seen in Wilmanski’s model that the
velocity u¯ decreases monotonically from its boundary
value toward the free surface, exhibiting a rather linear
profile across the fluid layer (Fig. 2b). The profile of 1 −
ν¯ behaves like an “exponential” function: it increases
from its minimum value on the solid plane toward the
free surface, and the increasing rate becomes larger
when approaching the free surface (Fig. 2a). This in-
dicates that, during the flow, most grains are confined
within the regions near the moving solid plane due to
the gravitational and frictional effects, while the grains
near the free surface are colliding strongly with one
another, resulting in a larger value of porosity near
the free surface. While in Fang’s model, the obtained
u¯ profile shown in Fig. 2d manifests a similar tendency
as that of Fig. 2b, although it is a concave profile across
the fluid layer, the obtained profile of 1 − ν¯, i.e., Fig. 2c,
reveals a reverse tendency in comparison with Fig. 2a.
The granular flow seems to be divided into two layers.
In the layer near the moving solid plane, the grains are
colliding strongly with one another, resulting in larger
pore space among the grains. Such a layer is commonly
referred to as the fluidized layer in the terminology
of avalanche. Above the fluidized layer, there exists a
thick layer, called the passive layer, in which the grains
interlock stronger with one another, resulting in the
reduced pore space among the grains. Such a tendency
is also manifest slightly in the velocity profile.
To estimate the performance and limitations of
Wilmanski’s and Fang’s models, the experimental re-
sults (Perng et al. 2006) are displayed in Fig. 2e and f
for the profiles of 1 − ν¯ and u¯, respectively, in which
the value of νδ − νδ(u0 = 0) in the horizontal axis of
Fig. 2e corresponds to the value of 1 − ν¯, while the
value of u¯/u0 in the horizontal axis of Fig. 2f is simply
the dimensionless velocity u¯ in our notation system. It is
evident that, while both Wilmanski’s and Fang’s models
deliver appropriate profiles for u¯ when compared with
experiments, only the profile of 1 − ν¯ obtained from
Wilmanski’s model matches well with the experimental
outcomes; Fang’s model delivers a profile of porosity
with a completely reverse tendency. However, this can-
not be used to negate the validity of Fang’s model: for
very rapid granular flows like avalanches, the suggested
profiles of the porosity and velocity from the laboratory
and field observations are very similar to those pre-
dicted from Fang’s model (Pudasaini and Hutter 2007).
This is due to the fact that, for very rapid granular
avalanches, the configuration and evolution of the pore
space result mainly from the strong collisions among
the grains, which, in view of its dynamic nature, can
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 987
Fig. 3 Calculated profiles of
1 − ν¯ and u¯ from Wilmanski’s
and Fang’s models for the
variations of S2 (=0.001,
0.005, 0.01), in which
Ξ1 = Ξ2 = 0.01. a, b Results
from Wilmanski’s model; c, d
results from Fang’s model
(a) (b)
S2 S2
(c) (d)
S2
S2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
1 – v –
–1 –0.5 0 0.5 1
u–
–1 –0.5 0 0.5 1
u–
–0.05 0 0.05 0.1 0.15
1 – v –
Fig. 4 Calculated profiles of
1 − ν¯ and u¯ from Wilmanski’s
and Fang’s models for the
variations of Ξ1, Ξ2 (=0.001,
0.005, 0.01), in which
S2 = 0.01. a, b Results from
Wilmanski’s model; c, d
results from Fang’s model
(a) (b)
 
(c) (d)
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y–
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
1 – v –
–1 –0.5 0 0.5 1
u–
–1 –0.5–1.5 0 0.5 1
u–
–0.05 0 0.05 0.1 0.15
1 – v –
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 989
the distributions of porosity in very rapid granular flows
like avalanches.
These findings suggest then the appropriateness
of using a kinematic equation for the time evolu-
tion of ν to describe the effects induced by the re-
distributions of the grains: although relatively simple
and popular, the kinematic evolution equation of ν
leads to the restricted results, which are inappropriate
for incompressible grains, and can be improved when
the effects of internal friction are taken into account.
For dry granular flows with slow to moderate velocities,
the velocity and porosity profiles can appropriately
be simulated by using a kinematic evolution equation
of ν, for the grains are not colliding strongly with
one another and the frictional effects are dominant;
a kinematic equation/gradient flow theory is sufficient
to describe the evolution of porosity. On the other
hand, although complicated, a dynamic balance equa-
tion is better to describe the evolution of porosity
in very rapid granular avalanches, since it yields not
only non-spherical equilibrium stress tensors when the
grains are incompressible and the effects of internal
friction are excluded, it is also more physically justified
for very rapid granular flows, for the colliding effects
are dominant and significant.
Acknowledgements The author is indebted to the National
Science Council, Taiwan, for the financial support through the
project NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3. The author also thanks
the editor and the two referees for their detailed reviews and
comments, which led to improvements.
Appendix A
Because the material behavior is required to be inde-
pendent of the external sources, it follows that
−γ˜ ν˜s + γ˜ ν˜λ˜v · b + λ˜eγ˜ ν˜r = 0 (79)
must hold, which serves as an identity for the entropy
supply and is more general than the classical selection.
Once λ˜
v
or b vanishes, it reduces to the traditional
expression of the entropy supply, i.e., s = λ˜er (Truesdell
and Noll 1965) for the two models. Substituting Eq. 79
into Eq. 15 yields
π˜ = θ−1γ˜ ν˜
( ˙˜e − θ˙ η˜ − ˙˜ψ
)
+ ∇·φ˜
−λ˜γ (γ˜ ˙˜ν + ˙˜γ ν˜ + γ˜ ν˜∇·v)
−θ−1
(
γ˜ ν˜ ˙˜e − t˜ · D˜ + ∇·q˜ + ℵ˜
)
−
{
λν,W(ν˙W + νW∇·vW − ∇·hW − f W)
λν,F(γ FνFν¨F − ∇·hF − γ FνF f F)
−λ˜v ·
(
γ˜ ν˜ ˙˜v − ∇·t˜
)
−λ˜Z · ( ˙˜Z − [Ω˜, Z˜] − Φ˜) ≥ 0. (80)
Incorporating the functional dependencies of the
state variables Eqs. 4 and 12 into Eq. 15 by use of the
chain rule of differentiation gives rise to the entropy
inequality in the form
π˜ = −
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, ν˜ + λ˜γ γ˜ +
{
λν,W
θ−1γ FνF f F
)
˙˜ν
−
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, ˙˜ν +
{
0
λν,Fγ FνF
)
¨˜ν
−
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, γ˜ + λ˜γ ν˜
) ˙˜γ −
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, g˜2
)
· ˙˜g2
−
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, θ + θ−1γ˜ ν˜η˜
)
θ˙ −
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, g3
)
· g˙3
−
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, D˜
)
· ˙˜D +
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, g˜1 ⊗ g˜1
)
· ∇v˜
+
(
φ˜, ν˜0 + λ˜
v · t˜, ν˜0 + λ˜ν h˜, ν˜0 − θ−1q˜, ν˜0
)
· ∇ν˜0
+
(
φ˜, ν˜ + λ˜v · t˜, ν˜ + λ˜ν h˜, ν˜ − θ−1q˜, ν˜
)
· g˜1
+
(
φ˜, γ˜ + λ˜v · t˜, γ˜ + λ˜ν h˜, γ˜ − θ−1q˜, γ˜
)
· g˜2
+
(
φ˜, ˙˜ν + λ˜
v · t˜, ˙˜ν + λ˜ν h˜, ˙˜ν − θ−1q˜, ˙˜ν
−θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, g˜1 +
{
0
θ−1hF
)
· ∇ ˙˜ν
+[λ˜Z , Z˜] · Ω˜ −
(
θ−1γ˜ ν˜ψ˜, Z˜ + λ˜
Z
)
· ˙˜Z
+
(
φ˜, g˜1 + λ˜
v · t˜, g˜1 + λ˜ν h˜, g˜1 − θ−1q˜, g˜1
)
· ∇ g˜1
+θ−1 t˜ · D˜ − γ˜ ν˜λ˜v · ˙˜v − λ˜γ γ˜ ν˜∇ · v˜ + λ˜Z · Φ˜
+
(
φ˜, g˜2 + λ˜
v · t˜, g˜2 + λ˜ν h˜, g˜2 − θ−1q˜, g˜2
)
· ∇ g˜2
+
(
φ˜, θ + λ˜v · t˜, θ + λ˜ν h˜, θ − θ−1q˜, θ
)
· g3
+
(
φ˜, g3 + λ˜
v · t˜, g3 + λ˜ν h˜, g3 − θ−1q˜, g3
)
· ∇ g3
+
(
φ˜, D˜ + λ˜
v · t˜, D˜ + λ˜ν h˜, D˜ − θ−1q˜, D˜
)
· ∇ D˜
+
(
φ˜, Z˜ + λ˜
v · t˜, Z˜ + λ˜ν h˜, Z˜ − θ−1q˜, Z˜
)
· ∇ Z˜
+λ˜ν
{
f W
γ FνF f F
−
{
λν,WνW∇ · vW
0 ≥ 0, (81)
where the identity
˙˜g1 = ∇ ˙˜ν − ( g˜1)(∇v˜), (82)
has been used. Let X be given by X = {˙˜v, ¨˜ν, ˙˜γ , θ˙ ,
˙˜g2, g˙3, ˙˜D, ˙˜Z, ∇ν˜0, ∇ ˙˜ν, ∇ g˜1, ∇ g˜2, ∇ g3, ∇ D˜, ∇ Z˜}.
Rheol Acta (2009) 48:971–992 991
basis {e1, e2, e3}, respectively. It follows immediately
from Eq. 92 that
0 = −(A˜)12( g˜1)3 + (A˜)13( g˜1)2 − (B˜)12( g˜2)3
+(B˜)13( g˜2)2 − (C˜)12(g3)3 + (C˜)13(g3)2, (93)
holds by comparing the coefficients. In a similar fash-
ion, we can let ω in Eq. 91 be ω = 0e1 + 1e2 + 0e3
and ω = 0e1 + 0e2 + 1e3 and perform the calculations
again. The obtained results, together with Eq. 93, are
summarized in the following matrix expression:
⎡
⎢
⎣
0 (A˜)13 (A˜)21
(A˜)32 0 (A˜)21
(A˜)32 (A˜)13 0
⎤
⎥
⎦ g˜1+
⎡
⎣
0 (B˜)13 (B˜)21
(B˜)32 0 (B˜)21
(B˜)32 (B˜)13 0
⎤
⎦ g˜2
+
⎡
⎢
⎣
0 (C˜)13 (C˜)21
(C˜)32 0 (C˜)21
(C˜)32 (C˜)13 0
⎤
⎥
⎦ g3 =0. (94)
Since, in Wilmanski’s model, gW1 , g
W
2 , and g3 do not
vanish simultaneously and can vary independently, and
such a circumstance holds equally among gF1 , g
G
2 , and
g3 in Fang’s model, it follows immediately from Eq. 94
that16
⎡
⎢
⎣
0 (A˜)13 (A˜)21
(A˜)32 0 (A˜)21
(A˜)32 (A˜)13 0
⎤
⎥
⎦ = 0, −→ A˜ = 0;
⎡
⎣
0 (B˜)13 (B˜)21
(B˜)32 0 (B˜)21
(B˜)32 (B˜)13 0
⎤
⎦ = 0, −→ B˜ = 0;
⎡
⎢
⎣
0 (C˜)13 (C˜)21
(C˜)32 0 (C˜)21
(C˜)32 (C˜)13 0
⎤
⎥
⎦ = 0, −→ C˜ = 0, (95)
hold, with which, Eq. 89 reduces to Eq. 26 for all S.
16The conclusions can easily be drawn for the trivial case in which
A˜, B˜, and C˜ do not depend on g˜1, g˜2, or g3. For non-trivial cases,
careful investigations need to be carried out to reach the same
results (Kirchner 2001; Svendsen et al. 1999).
Appendix C
In view of Eqs. 4, 32, and 34, we define the following
sub-sets of the state space:
Y˜ ≡
(
ν˜0, ν˜, ˙˜ν, g˜1, γ˜ , g˜2, θ, g3, D˜, Z˜
)
,
Y˜ |E =
(
ν˜0, ν˜, 0, g˜1, γ˜ , g˜2, θ, 0, 0, Z˜
)
,
Y˜
D = ( ˙˜ν, g3, D˜), Y˜
D|E = 0. (96)
With Eq. 96, it is plausible to decompose each constitu-
tive variable ℘˜ listed in Eq. 12 into its equilibrium part
℘˜|E plus its dynamic part ℘˜D, viz.,
℘˜ = ℘˜|E + ℘˜D ℘˜|E = ˆ˜℘|E(Y˜ |E),
℘˜D = ˆ˜℘D(Y˜), ℘˜D|E = ˆ˜℘D(Y˜ |E) = 0, (97)
in which the functional dependencies of ℘˜|E and ℘˜D
have been assumed. In addition, the entropy produc-
tion π˜ assumes its global minimum value at an equilib-
rium state, and can be considered an “explicit” function
of Y˜
D
, having the global minimum located at Y˜
D = 0
according to Eqs. 32 and 96. These lead to condition 35.
References
Bagnold RA (1954) Experiments on a gravity free dispersion of
large solid spheres in a Newtonian fluid under shear. Proc R
Soc Lond A 225:49–63
Bauer E, Herle I (2000) Stationary states in hypoplasticity. In:
Kolymbas D (ed) Constitutive modelling of granular materi-
als. Springer, Berlin, pp 167–192
Bluhm J, de Bohr R, Wilmanski K (1995) The thermodynamic
structure of the two-component model of porous incom-
pressible materials with trus mass densities. Mech Res Com-
mun 22:171–180
Duran J (2000) Sands, powders and grains. Springer, New York
Eringen AE, Kadafar CB (1976) Polar field theories. In: Contin-
uum physics IV. Academic, London
Fang C (2008a) Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-
hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects. I. Ther-
modynamically consistent constitutive model. Acta Mech
197(3–4):173–189
Fang C (2008b) Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-
visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects. II.
Numerical simulations of benchmark flow problems. Acta
Mech 197(3–4):191-209
Fang C, Wang Y, Hutter K (2006a) A thermo-mechanical con-
tinuum theory with internal length for cohesionless granu-
lar materials. Part I. A class of constitutive models. Contin
Mech Thermodyn 17(8):545–576
Fang C, Wang Y, Hutter K (2006b) Shearing flows of a dry gran-
ular material—hypoplastic constitutive theory and numeri-
cal simulations. Int J Numer Anal Methods Geomech 30:
1409–1437
Fang C, Wang Y, Hutter K (2006c) A variational principle for the
revised Goodman-Cowin theory with internal length. Arch
Appl Mech 76:119–131
Journal of Mechanics, Vol. 25, No. 4, December 2009 421 
 
TIME-DEPENDENT POISEUILLE FLOWS OF AN ELASTO-VISCO- 
PLASTIC FLUID WITH HYPOPLASTIC EFFECTS 
 
C. Fang * 
Department of Civil Engineering 
National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan City, Taiwan 70101, R.O.C. 
ABSTRACT 
An evolution equation for the Cauchy stress tensor is proposed, taking into account the elastic, viscous 
and plastic characteristics of complex fluids.  Hypoplasticity, in particular, is incorporated to model the 
plastic features.  The model is applied to investigate time-dependent Poiseuille flows between two parallel 
plates to simulate non-Newtonian behavior of complex rheological fluids.  Results show that while differ-
ent degrees of elastic and viscous features can be indexed by varying the values of the model parameters, 
hypoplasticity is capable of simulating the plastic characteristics.  The fluid tends to be divided into differ-
ent parallel layers as hypoplastic effects enhance gradually.  Applications of the model may be found in 
geomorphic fluid motions involved granular materials. 
Keywords : Stress tensor, Hypoplasticity, Granular matter, Time-dependent Poiseuille flow. 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
Complex fluids such as granular/debris or mud mix-
tures, or polymeric solutions, exhibit coupled elastic, 
viscous and plastic characteristics simultaneously dur-
ing the motion [1-4].  However, for the descriptions of 
their dynamic behavior it is often found that only one, 
at most two dominant features like viscoelasticity, vis-
coplasticity or elasto-plasticity are taken into consid-
eration in the theoretical formulations [4,5].  While 
such a consideration has achieved fruitful results in 
various fields involving non-Newtonian and rheological 
fluids, it gives rise to a certain non-ignored discrepan-
cies between theoretical predictions and experimental 
observations for geomorphic fluid motions like granu-
lar/debris flows in the launched and deposited regions 
[6,7].  From this perspective, the constitutive relations 
of these complex fluids need by extended to take the 
elastic, viscous and plastic features simultaneously into 
account. 
Recently, based on the works of non-Newtonian flu-
ids and rheology, an unified evolution equation for the 
Cauchy stress tensor of elasto-visco-plastic fluids is 
proposed in the form [8]  
1
2
(1 )
2 ( )  n
p
∇ Δ
∇
= − + ,
⎛ ⎞Λ + λ − ξ + ξ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
= μ + λ + + ε ,
t I T
T T T
D D N D
 
(1)
 
with ,  and  ,T T
∇ Δ≡ − − ≡ + + A A LA A A A AL AL L  
known respectively as the upper-convected and lower-    
convected time derivatives, for a tensor-valued quantity 
A.  In (1) t is the Cauchy stress tensor, p the pressure, I 
the second-rank identity tensor, T the extra stress tensor, 
L the velocity gradient, D the symmetric part of L and 
N an unspecified non-linear, tensor-valued function, 
which is ascribed with the effects of plasticity, as will 
be discussed later.  The superscript T denotes transpo-
sition, and ℘  represents the material time derivative 
of ℘ .  The parameters Λ, λ1, ξ, μ, λ2, ε and n are 
scalar coefficients; they are in general non-constant and 
may depend on the scalar invariants of the state of the 
material.  In particular, λ1, μ, λ2 and ε correspond to 
the relaxation time, viscosity, retardation time and a 
dissipative and turbulence parameter, respectively, pro-
vided that Λ = 1.  By assigning different values to 
these parameters, various models in the field of non- 
Newtonian fluids, such as the Bingham model, Criminale- 
Erickson-Filbey model, the Johnson-Segelman model, the 
Maxwell-A and -B models, the Oldroyd-B model and the 
Reiner-Rivlin model can be reproduced [8]. 
The thermodynamic consistency, and the numerical 
simulations for unsteady flows between two infinite 
parallel plates driven by a sudden/perodic motion of the 
plate have been studied to estimate the model perform-
ance and limitations [8-10].  Results show that the 
transient behavior of the fluid from its start-up to 
steady-state can appropriately be indexed by varying 
the model parameters.  In particular, different spectra 
of relaxation and retardation, the transmission of the 
shear and the emerging non-Newtonian characteristics 
* Assistant Professor 
Journal of Mechanics, Vol. 25, No. 4, December 2009 423 
 1 2 || ||  ,C C tr
⎛ ⎞= +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
TTN T D
T
 (8) 
where  2|| || tr≡D D  and C1,2 are model parameters 
depending on the state of the motion. (8) is the classical 
hypoplastic expression proposed by Kolymbas ac-
counting for the stress generated by plastic deformation 
in soils [15,16].  It is a non-linear incremental expres-
sion with two distinct features: (i) distinction between 
loading and unloading is automatically accomplished; 
and (ii) elastic/inelastic deformations need not a priori 
be distinguished, and hence information about yield 
surface and plastic potential is no longer necessary 
[17,18].  It is noted, in view of (4)1 and (5), that only 
the components Nxx, Nxy and Nyy exist and are functions 
of y and t, whilst other components vanish.  For the 
symmetry of the Cauchy stress tensor it follows imme-
diately that Nxy = Nyx holds.   
Identifying the non-vanishing components of N by 
using (8) and substituting the results into (1) with the 
definition (5) yields the implicit constitutive expres-
sions of the non-vanishing components of T in the 
forms  
2
1 2
2 2
1 2
22(1 ) 2  
2
                                                        
xx
xx xy
xx xy
xx
T u u uT T
t y y y
T T
C T C
tr
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂ ∂Λ + λ − − ξ = − μλ + ×⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞++ ,⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠T
1
2
2
1 2
(1 )
2
2
      
xy
xy yy xx
xx xy xy yy
xy
T u uT T T
t y y
u u u
y t y y
T T T T
C T C
tr
∂⎛ ⎞∂ ∂Λ + λ − − ξ + ξ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠
∂ ∂ ∂= μ + μλ +∂ ∂ ∂ ∂
+⎛ ⎞× + ,⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠T
 
(9)
 
2 2
1 1 2
22  
2
yy xy yy
yy xy yy
T T Tu uT T C T C
t y y tr
⎛ ⎞∂ +⎛ ⎞∂ ∂Λ + λ + ξ = + .⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠T
 
The governing equation for u(y, t) can be obtained by 
substituting (7) and (9) into (6)1, resulting in a time- 
dependent, nonlinear second-order partial differential 
equation, subjected to the traditional non-slip boundary 
conditions on the two plates given by  
 ( 0  ) (  ) 0 u y t u y h t= , = = , = .  (10) 
The emerging two-point boundary value problem 
should be solved numerically for variations of the 
model parameters to illustrate the flow behavior.  
However, for numerical simplicity we let the balance 
and constitutive equations be expressed separately.  
2.1  Nondimensionalization 
Defining the dimensionless parameters according to 
                             
  
0
0 1
2 2
00
1
1 2 3 22
1
4 5
,                     
                   
( )
                        
               
x
x x
xx
y uy u t t
h p
p p
pp h
h
C
= = , = ω ,/ρω
= , ς = , α =ρ /ρω ρω
ωλ μβ = , β = , β = ωλ ,Λ ρωΛ
ω ωβ = , β =Λ
TT
2   C ,Λ
 
(11)
 
and substituting (11) into (6)1, (7), (9) and (10) gives 
rise to the dimensionless x-momentum equation and the 
associated boundary conditions in the forms  
(1  cos )    ( 0  ) ( 1  ) 0 xyu Tt u y t u y t
t y
∂∂ = + α + ς , = , = = , = ,∂ ∂
  (12) 
with the dimensionless extra stress components given 
by  
 
1
2
2 3
2 2
4 5
2(1 )  
22  
2
      
xx
xx xy
xx xy
xx
uTT Tt y
u u
y y
T T
T tr
⎛ ⎞∂ ∂+ β − − ξ ς⎜ ⎟∂ ∂⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞∂ ∂= − β β + ς⎜ ⎟∂ ∂⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞+× β + β ,⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠T
 
 
1
2
2 2 3
4 5
(1 )    
2  
2
    
xy
xy yy xx
xx xy xy yy
xy
u uT
T T Tt y y
u u u
y t y y
T T T T
T tr
∂⎛ ⎞∂ ∂+ β − − ξ ς + ξ ς⎜ ⎟∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠
∂ ∂ ∂= β + β β + ς∂ ∂ ∂ ∂
+⎛ ⎞× β + β ,⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠T
 
1
2 2
4 5
2   
2  
2
yy
yy xy
xy yy
yy
uT
T Tt y
u T T
Ty tr
∂⎛ ⎞∂+ β + ξ ς⎜ ⎟∂ ∂⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞+∂= ς β + β .⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟∂ ⎝ ⎠T
 
(13)
 
The dimensionless parameters β1 and β3 are used to 
account for the effects of relaxation and retardation, 
respectively, β2 is for the viscous effects, while both β4 
and β5 are for the hypoplastic effects.  Since β1 and β3 
are both used to capture elastic effects, β3 is kept to be a 
constant, namely 0.01, in all the calculations, to reduce 
its counteract influences.  In addition, the variation of 
ξ affects the relative weightings of the upper- and 
lower-convective derivatives of T and has no significant 
influence on the results.  It is chosen to be 0.5 through 
the calculations.   
2.2  Numerical Method 
The emerging two-point BVP (12) and (13) are 
solved numerically by using finite difference method 
with the space domain discretized by central-difference 
Journal of Mechanics, Vol. 25, No. 4, December 2009 425 
 
 
(a) β1 = 0.2 
 
 
(b) β1 = 0.4 
 
 
(c) β1 = 0.6 
 
 
(d) Time series of (  )u y t,  at 0 5y = .  for variations of β1 
Fig. 2 Elastic effects on the calculated profiles of 
(  )u y t, : In the figure β2 = 0.5, β3 = 0.01, β4 
= β5 = 0.01, α = 1 and ς = 0.2. Solid lines: 
present model; dashed lines: Newtonian fluid. 
A: 0t = ; B: 2t = π/ ; C: t = π ; D: 
3 2t = π/  
effects, whilst in Fig. 2(a) the fluid starts to adjust itself 
to the external excitation.  Of particular interest are the 
results in which the elastic effect becomes significant, 
as illustrated in Fig. 2(c).  For larger values of β1 there 
exists a tendency that the fluid is “stretched out” near 
the solid boundaries, which is caused by the larger iner-
tia effects in the core region and the strong adhesions 
near the solid plates.  Such a circumstance holds 
equally as time passes.  To illustrate this more clearly, 
the time series of (  )u y t,  at the middle of the channel 
are plotted in Fig. 2(d) for variations of β1.  As β1 in-
creases, the amplitude and phase lag of (  )u y t,  in-
crease correspondingly, resulting in a similar “plug- 
flow”.  The underlying mechanism for Fig. 2 may be 
indexed by the evolutions of the stress components, as 
shown in Fig. 3, in which their positiveness are indexed.  
Since the flow state of an infinitesimal fluid element 
parallel to the flow direction obeys Newton’s second 
law, it is determined essentially by the relative signifi-
cance of xxT  and xyT .  In Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) it is 
seen that xyT  becomes more significant and is larger 
than xxT  as approaching to the solid boundaries.  This 
tendency holds as well as time passes, which results in 
smooth profiles of (  )u y t,  in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b).  
On the other hand, when β1 is large, its influences are 
reflected by larger values and strong variations of xxT  
near the solid plates.  Since in these regions xxT  is 
much larger than xyT  and dominates the flow, its sharp 
variation leads to the “stretched-out” region of 
(  )u y t, , as illustrated in Fig. 2(c).  
The calculated profiles of (  )u y t,  for variations of 
β2 are shown in Fig. 4, in which β1 = 0.5, β3 = β4 = β5 
= 0.01, α = 1 and ς = 0.2.  When β2 is small, the out- 
of-phase between the driving pressure oscillations and 
the emerging velocity profiles is significant, as shown 
in Fig. 4(a).  As β2 increases, the viscous effects en-
hance gradually: The viscous friction between different 
fluid layers increases, so that the fluid can response to 
the oscillating pressure gradient more efficiently, which 
are revealed by the left-ward profiles of (  )u y t,  at 
3 2t = π/  shown in Figs. 4(b) and 4(c).  Figure 4(d) 
illustrates the time series of (  )u y t,  at 0 5y = .  for 
variations of β2, from which it is seen that the ampli-
tude and the phase lag of (  )u y t,  decrease as β2 in-
creases: the results caused by the enhanced viscous 
frictions.  Such a tendency is also manifest in the time 
evolutions of the stress components shown in Fig. 5.  
As illustrated in Fig. 5(a), although xxT  exceeds xyT  
near the solid plates when β2 is small, their difference is 
not significant, and thus the “stretched-out” region of 
(  )u y t,  cannot be formed, as compared with Fig. 2(c).  
When β2 becomes large, it is seen from Figs. 5(b) and 
5(c) that xyT  always exceeds xxT  at different time 
slices, resulting in smooth u -profiles with various 
amplitudes and phase shifts. 
u
y
u
y
u
y
t
u β1 
Journal of Mechanics, Vol. 25, No. 4, December 2009  427 
 
 
(a) β2 = 0.5 
 
 
(b) β2 = 1.0 
 
 
(c) β2 = 2.0 
Fig. 5 Time evolutions of xxT  and xyT : In the figure 
β1 = 0.5, β3 = β4 = β5 = 0.01, α = 1 and ς = 0.2. 
Solid lines: xxT ; dotted lines: xyT . A: 0t = ; 
B: 2t = π/ ; C: t = π ; D: 3 2t = π/  
Figure 6 shows the calculated profiles of (  )u y t,  
for variations of β4 and β5, in which β1 = β2 = 0.5, β3 = 
0.01, α = 1 and ς = 0.2.  The variations in β4 and β5 
denote the effects of plasticity, which is characterized in 
the present study by using the hypoplastic formulation.  
Instead of altering the phase and amplitude of the ve-
locity profiles significantly, increasing β4 and β5 tends 
to change the shapes of (  )u y t, .  When β4 and β5 
vanish, the profiles of (  )u y t,  are almost parabolic at 
different time slices, as shown in Fig. 4(a).  As β4 and 
β5 increase, plastic deformations occur at thelocations 
where the shearing is most significant, i.e., in the re-
gions near the solid plates.  Such a circumstance is 
 
 
(a) β4,5 = 0 
 
 
(b) β4,5 = 0.05 
 
 
(c) β4,5 = 0.075 
 
 
(d) Time series of (  )u y t,  at 0 5y = .  for variations of β4 and β5 
Fig. 6 Hypoplastic effects on the calculated profiles 
of (  )u y t, : In the figure β1 = β2 = 0.5, β3 = 
0.01, α = 1 and ς = 0.2. Solid lines: present 
model; dashed lines: Newtonian fluid. A: 
0t = ; B: 2t = π/ ; C: t = π ; D: 3 2t = π/  
y
y
y
( )xx xyT T
( )xx xyT T
( )xx xyT T
y
y
y
u  
u  
u  
u
β4,5
t
Journal of Mechanics, Vol. 25, No. 4, December 2009 429 
 
 
(a) ς = 0.1 
 
 
(b) ς = 0.2 
 
 
(c) ς = 0.3 
 
 
(d) Time series of (  )u y t,  at 0 5y = .  for variations of ς 
Fig. 8 Influences of the constant-part pressure gradi-
ent ς on the calculated profiles of (  )u y t, : In 
the figure β1 = β2 = 0.5, β3 = 0.01, β4 = β5 
= 0.05 and α = 1. Solid lines: Present model; 
dashed lines: Newtonian fluid. A: 0t = ; B: 
2t = π/ ; C: t = π ; D: 3 2t = π/  
 
 
(a) α = 0.5 
 
 
(b) α = 1.0 
 
 
(c) α = 1.5 
Fig. 9 Time series of (  )u y t,  at 0 5y = .  showing 
the influences of the relative significance of 
the constant- and oscillating-parts pressure 
gradient, for variations of β4 and β5: In the 
figure β1 = β2 = 0.5, β3 = 0.01 and ς = 0.2 
plastic effects of complex fluids simultaneously into 
account.  In particular, hypoplasticity was incorpo-
rated to account for the plastic characteristics for its 
better features in distinguishing the elastic and inelastic 
ranges of deformation and in accompanying the loading 
and unloading histories automatically.  The model was 
employed to study the time-dependent soil flows be-
tween two parallel plates driven by the oscillating 
pressure gradient along the flow direction for its prac-
tical applications.  An explicit scheme was constructed 
to solve the emerging two-point BVP problems nu-
merically for better numerical convergence and stability.  
The main conclusions are drawn as follows.  
y
y
y
u
u
u
u  
t
ς 
y
y
y
u  
u  
u  
β4,5
β4,5
β4,5
Journal of Mechanics, Vol. 25, No. 4, December 2009 431 
Granular Materials,” J. Eng. Math., 56, pp. 23−34 
(2006).  
18. Wu, W. and Kolymbas, D., Hypoplasticity Then and 
Now, Constitutive Modelling of Granular Materials, 
Kolymbas, D. Ed., Springer Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg 
New York, pp. 57−105 (2000). 
19. Anderson, D. A., Tannehill, J. C. and Pletcher, R. H., 
Computational Fluid Mechanics and Heat Transfer, 
McGraw-Hill, New York (1984).  
20. Panton, R. L., Incompressible Flow, 2nd Ed., John 
Wiley and Sons Inc., New York (1996).  
21. Liepmann, H. W. and Roshko, A., Elements of Gas 
Dynamics, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York 
(1957). 
(Manuscript received August 18, 2008, 
accepted for publication March 2, 2009.) 
 
 
 
 
 
170 C. Fang
is in fact a generalization of the results obtained in [3–5], in which the physical meaning of the vector q is the
gradient of the volume fraction.1 However, in this paper q is only assumed to be an objective vector, of which
the physical meaning is not germane. Such a consideration can also be found in the theories of anisotropic
fluids [6,7]. The expression (2) should be discussed in a detailed way.
In the next section, some selected results of the constitutive relations from the revised Goodman–Cowin
theory, in particular the expression of the Cauchy stress tensor, will be outlined, followed by an equilibrium
analysis to deduce a generalized Mohr–Coulomb criterion implied by (2). The result should subsequently be
employed for a two-dimensional case to illustrate the generality. The paper will be summarized in Sect. 3.
2 Equilibrium analysis
Following the results obtained in the revised Goodman–Cowin theory with internal friction [3–5], the consti-
tutive relation of the Cauchy stress tensor is cited in the following for reference
t = −νp I − h ⊗ grad ν + γ ν ∂
∂ Z
∂
∂ D
∣
∣
∣
∣
E
+ t D, (3)
where ν is the volume fraction as defined previously, p the thermodynamic pressure, I the second-rank identity
tensor,  a constant internal length indicating the characteristic length scale of the grains [8], h the flux of the
variation of ν, called the equilibrated stress vector, γ the true mass density of the grains,  the Helmholtz free
energy, Z a second-rank symmetric tensor representing the internal friction and other non-conservative force
inside a microcontinuum of the granular matter [3],  a second-rank tensor-valued constitutive relation for the
plastic features of the material (e.g., the Bingham plasticity or the hypoplasticity can be included in (3) by the
prescriptions of , see [9]) and t D the dynamic (non-equilibrium) part of t , depending essentially on D. While
the symbol ⊗ denotes the dyadic product, grad stands for gradient and the subscript E denotes that the indexed
quantity is evaluated at equilibrium. The sum of the first three terms in the RHS of (3) is the equilibrium part
of t , and is in principle determined once the free energy  and the plastic feature  are prescribed. Since Z, 
and D are all second-rank symmetric tensors and  is an isotropic scalar function, the third term in the RHS
of (3) becomes a second-rank symmetric tensor which is denoted by other symbol Z for convenience.2 With
this, (3) is recast in the form
t∗ = t + νp I − Z = h ⊗ grad ν + t D, (4)
which possesses the same functional dependency as shown in (2) by denoting q = grad ν. Thus, instead of (4),
we should start the equilibrium analysis with (2) for generality. It is noted that Z indicates the stress contribution
due to the internal friction, cohesion and other non-conservative force inside the granular microcontinuum (i.e.,
the rate-independent behaviour), and q does not vanish in general when D vanishes.
In equilibrium, the constitutive expression of the effective stress (2) reduces to
t∗ = Fˆ(q), QFˆ(q) QT = Fˆ( Qq), (5)
where Q stands for all orthogonal tensors for material objectivity and the superscript T denotes transposition.
To build up an isotropic expression for a second-rank symmetric tensor from a vector argument, (5) can be
replaced without the loss of generality by
t∗ = Bˆ(q ⊗ q), QBˆ(q ⊗ q) QT = Bˆ( Q(q ⊗ q) QT ), (6)
where Bˆ(q ⊗ q) ≡ Fˆ(q). For convenience, we use A to denote q ⊗ q. Since t∗ is isotropic in A, its general
expression can be given by [10]
t∗ = α0 I + α1 A + α2 A2, (7)
where α0 − α2 are the scalar functions of the three invariants of A given by
αi = αˆi (IA, IIA, IIIA), i = 0, 1, 2
IA = trA, IIA = 12
(
(trA)2 − trA2) , IIIA = detA. (8)
1 It is defined as the ratio of the solid volume divided by the total volume of an representative volume element and is used
frequently as an index of the influence of porosity.
2 It emerges equally by assuming that t is symmetric.
172 C. Fang
τxy
σx,σy
Z12
R
R
r
2θ2θ∗φ
H p+Z22
p+(Z11+Z22)/ 2
p+Z11
Fig. 1 Plane limiting equilibrium and the emerging generalized Mohr circle in the xy plane in which Z11 > Z22 is assumed for
illustration
A generalized Mohr circle can directly be obtained from (16), with which the plane stress state at each point
is characterized by the stress components (see Fig. 1)
σx = σ(1 + sin φ cos(2θ∗)),
σy = σ(1 − sin φ cos(2θ∗)),
τxy = σ sin φ sin(2θ∗),
(18)
where the notations
t11 = σx , t22 = σy, t12 = τxy, p¯ = p + 12 (Z11 + Z22), σ = p¯ + H,
R2 = (Z12 + r sin 2θ)2 + (r cos 2θ + (Z11 − Z22)/2)2 , tan(2θ∗) = 2(Z12 + r sin 2θ)Z11 − Z22 + r cos 2θ , (19)
have been used, where H = k cot φ and k the cohesion coefficient. The expressions (18) are the same as
those obtained by Sokolovskii in studying the stress state in plane limiting equilibrium [1], except that the
center and the radius of the Mohr circle are defined in a generalized way to account for the effects of internal
friction and other non-conservative forces inside a granular microcontinuum. They assume a certain values
even when p and r vanish. This result, as stated previously, is significant, and is more general than the original
Goodman–Cowin theory, for the Mohr circles exist equally even under the uniform distributions the grains in
the present formulation.
Similar results can be accomplished in the same procedure. For examples, a series of the generalized Mohr
circles can be obtained for the case in which Z11 = Z22 for isotropic granular matters. Of particular interest is
the simplification in which the effects of the internal friction and other non-conservative forces vanish, namely,
Z11 = Z22 = Z12 = 0. Under such a circumstance, the obtained Mohr circle and the Mohr–Coulomb criterion
are the same as those derived in the original Goodman–Cowin theory [2].
3 Concluding remarks
In the present study, the derived constitutive expressions in the revised Goodman–Cowin theory proposed
by Fang et al. [3–5], in particular the expression of the Cauchy stress tensor, were shown to imply a gen-
eralized Mohr–Coulomb criterion for the impending flow of granular matters. To this end, the concept of
microcontinuum was employed: the effects of the internal friction and other non-conservative forces inside
the microcontinuum was accounted for by introducing a second-rank symmetric tensor Z , and the constitutive
expression of the effective stress tensor was constructed to be an objective function of an objective vector and
the stretching tensor arguments.
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-
hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects.
I. Thermodynamically consistent constitutive
model
C. Fang
Department of Civil Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan City, Taiwan
Received 6 December 2006; Accepted 26 September 2007; Published online 25 January 2008
 Springer-Verlag 2008
Summary. On the basis of the revised Goodman–Cowin theory, dry granular mass flows are modeled as elasto-
visco-plastic continua with microstructural effects. In particular, hypoplasticity is incorporated to account for the
plastic deformations and internal-friction characteristics of the material. The constitutive equations comprise of
the equilibrium and non-equilibrium parts. A thermodynamic analysis, based on the Mu¨ller–Liu entropy
principle, is performed to derive the ultimate equilibrium expressions of the constitutive variables, while the
non-equilibrium responses are postulated by use of a quasi-linear theory. Results show that the revised
Goodman–Cowin theory can appropriately be extended to take the frictional and plastic effects into account.
These are revealed in the additonal plastic contributions in the equilibrium expressions of the Cauchy stress
tensor and the balance equations of two internal variables. It is also shown that the present model is capable of
describing the complex elasto-viscous-plastic behaviour of granular materials in static/quasi-static as well as in
dynamic situations. This paper is devoted to the derivation of the thermodynamically consistent constitutive
model. Its applications to benchmark problems and the justified evaluation of its performance and limitations are
deferred to the other further paper.
1 Introduction and motivation
Dry granular mass flows are flows of a large number of discrete solid particles with interstices filled with
a gas. Essentially, the interstitial gas plays an insignificant role in the transportation processes (e.g. the
momentum transport), and such flows are mostly considered dispersed single phase rather than multi-
phase. Applications of dry granular mass flows can be found e.g. in high technical fields such as
ultrastructural processing of ceramics or new methods of Xerography and powder metal forming.
Related to these industrial applications are problems arising in the geophysical or environmental
contexts such as avalanches or the formation of dunes. Distinctive features of dry granular mass flows
and the arising challenges in understanding their behaviour are summarized in e.g. [1]–[4].
Correspondence: C. Fang, Department of Civil Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, No. 1, University
Road, Tainan City 701, Taiwan
e-mail: cfang@mail.ncku.edu.tw
Acta Mech 197, 173–189 (2008)
DOI 10.1007/s00707-007-0513-1
Printed in The Netherlands
Acta Mechanica
The present study is decomposed into two parts. In this paper the detailed derivation of the
ultimate expressions of the constitutive equations will be given. The applications to benchmark flow
problems, namely steady, isothermal granular flows with incompressible grains, embracing simple
plane shear, inclined gravity-driven and plane Poiseuille flows, and the ultimate justification of the
performance and limitations of the present model, are deferred to the other forthcoming article [25].
In the next Section, the traditional balance equations of the revised Goodman–Cowin theory with an
independent internal length and an evolution equation describing the internal friction will be
outlined. In addition, a specific constitutive class will be proposed which is suitable for the
considered elasto-visco-plastic granular material. A thermodynamic analysis, based on the Mu¨ller–
Liu entropy principle, will be performed in Sect. 3 to deduce the ultimate equilibrium expressions of
the constitutive variables. The thermodynamic analysis will be completed by identifying the Liu
identities and the restrictions obtained from the entropy residual inequality in the context of
thermodynamic equilibrium. The non-equilibrium responses of the constitutive variables will be
postulated by use of a quasi-linear theory in Sect. 4. Since the Helmholtz free energy plays a key role
in the derivations, and many quantities can be determined once it is prescribed, its specific form as
well as the specific form of viscosity will then be prescribed on the basis of experimental results. In
addition, hypoplasticity will in particular be incorporated to account for the plastic characteristics of
dry granular mass flows. With these, a complete set of thermodynamically consistent constitutive
equations for the constitutive variables will be obtained. This paper will be summarized and
commented in Sect. 5.
2 Balance equations and the constitutive class
Following the revised Goodman–Cowin theory with an independent internal length [19], the balance
equations are given by
mass balance 0 ¼ _cmþ c _mþ cmdiv v; ð1Þ
linearmomentumbalance 0 ¼ cm _v div t cmb; ð2Þ
angularmomentumbalance 0 ¼ t tT; ð3Þ
equilibrated force balance 0 ¼ cmð _‘ _mþ ‘€mÞ  div h cmf ; ð4Þ
internal length balance 0 ¼ cmK€‘ div C cmP; ð5Þ
internal energy balance 0 ¼ cm _e t Dþ div q cmr  h  gradð‘ _mÞ
þ cmf ‘ _m C  gradðK _‘Þ þ cmK _‘P; ð6Þ
entropy balance 0 ¼ cm _gþ div/ qs  p; ð7Þ
where c is the true mass density of the grains, m the volume fraction, v the velocity, t the Cauchy
stress tensor, b the specific body force, tT the transposition of t, ‘ an independent internal length
expressing the mean free path between the grains, h the equilibrated stress vector, f the equilibrated
intrinsic body force, K a constant weighting factor, C and P the flux and production associated with
‘, respectively, e the specific internal energy, D the symmetric part of the velocity gradient, known
as the stretching tensor, q the heat flux, r the specific energy supply, g the specific entropy, U the
entropy flux, s the specific entropy supply and p the entropy production. The notation _} denotes the
material time derivative of }; i.e., _} ¼ o}=ot þ ðgrad}Þ  v; while A  B ¼ trðABTÞ ¼ trðATBÞ for
two arbitrary second-rank tensors. Equations (1), (2) and (7) are the traditional balances of mass,
linear momentum and entropy, respectively, except that the bulk density q is decomposed into
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 175
addition, although the exclusion of _h will cause the indifference between the empirical and absolute
temperatures, and also leads to an infinite propagation speed of a small thermal pulse in the material
(see e.g. [36], [37]), these situations are rather rare and unimportant for most dry granular flows like
soil. Thus, from the viewpoint of practical application, _h is omitted here as an independent argument
in (9). While the dependencies on f‘0; m0; m; _m;g1; ‘;g2; _‘; c;g3g in (9) are used to capture the elastic
effects, Z and L are assigned to the plastic and viscous effects, respectively. With the principle of
material objectivity (9) can alternatively be represented in the form
Q ¼ f‘0; m0; m; _m;g1; ‘; _‘;g2; c;g3; h;g4;D;Zg: ð11Þ
Relation (11) defines the constitutive class employed in this paper. It is also noted that with (11) the
angular momentum balance (4) is automatically satisfied. Thus, in the formulations (1)–(8), the
independent field quantities are c, m, ‘, v, h (temperature) and Z, totally 13 scalar unknowns, whilst S
in (10) are treated as constitutive variables. Since the number of the unknown field quantities
corresponds to the number of the available equations ((1) · 1 ? (2) · 3 ? (4) · 1 ? (5) · 1
? (6) · 1 ? (8) · 6 = 13),3 Eqs. (1), (2), (4)–(6) and (8) form a mathematically likely well-
posed system, and one has the chance to obtain the values of the independent field quantities by
integrating these equations simultaneously, provided that the constitutive equations (the expressions
of the constitutive variables in terms of the independent field quantities) are prescribed. To achieve
this, it is assumed that the expression of any constitutive variable } can be decomposed into two parts,
namely the equilibrium response and the dynamic (non-equilibrium) response, viz.,
}  }jE þ }D; }DjE ¼ 0; ð12Þ
where the subscript E denotes that the indexed quantity is evaluated in thermodynamic equilibrium,
while the superscript D denotes the non-equilibrium contribution. We now first turn to the possible
restrictions of }jE in the context of thermodynamic analysis.
3 Thermodynamic analysis
3.1 Entropy inequality and its exploitation
The second law of thermodynamics requires that the entropy production p should always be non-
negative during a physical process, which casts (7) alternatively in the form
p ¼ cm _gþ div / cms 0: ð13Þ
A physically-realizable process should be one in which the entropy inequality (13), the balance
equations (1)–(2), (4)–(6), the evolution equation (8) as well as the constitutive relations (10) and
(11) must hold simultaneously. This can be achieved by regarding these equations as the constraints
of the entropy inequality via the method of Lagrange multipliers in the form [38]
p ¼ cm _gþ div / cms  kc _cmþ c _mþ cmdiv vð Þ  kv  cm _v div t cmbð Þ
 km cmð‘ _mÞ_ div h cmfð Þ  k‘ cmK€‘ div C cmP  kZ  _Z ½X;Z U 
 ke cm _e t Dþ div q cmr  h  gradð‘ _mÞ þ cmf ‘ _m KC  grad _‘þ cmK _‘P  0; ð14Þ
where kc; kv; km; k‘; ke and kZ are the Lagrange multipliers of the balances of mass, linear
momentum, equilibrated force, internal length, internal energy and the evolution equation of Z,
3 While (3) is fulfilled by prescribing a specific constitutive class (11), (7) can be recast in an inequality and will be
used in the thermodynamic analysis, as will be shown later on.
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 177
þ o/
og2
þ kv  ot
og2
þ km oh
og2
þ k‘ oC
og2
 1
h
oq
og2
 
 grad g2
þ o/
oh
þ kv  ot
oh
þ km oh
oh
þ k‘ oC
oh
 1
h
oq
oh
 
 g4
þ o/
og4
þ kv  ot
og4
þ km oh
og4
þ k‘ oC
og4
 1
h
oq
og4
 
 grad g4
þ o/
oD
þ kv  ot
oD
þ km oh
oD
þ k‘ oC
oD
 1
h
oq
oD
 
 gradD
þ o/
oZ
þ kv  ot
oZ
þ km oh
oZ
þ k‘ oC
oZ
 1
h
oq
oZ
 
 grad Z 0; ð17Þ
where the identities
ðgrad aÞ ¼ grad _a ðgrad aÞðgrad vÞ; a 2 fm; ‘g;
kZ  ½X;Z ¼ ½kZ;Z X; ð18Þ
have been used. Let v be given by v ¼ f _v;€m; €‘; _c; _h; _D; _Z;X; grad _m; grad _‘; ðg3Þ; ðg4Þ;
gradm0; grad‘0; grad D; grad Z; grad g1; grad g2; grad g3; grad g4g: It is straightforward to see
that the inequality (17) is of the form
a  vþ b 0; ð19Þ
where the vector a and the scalar b are functions of (11), but not of v; and the vector v; as defined,
depends on time and space derivatives of (11). As a consequence, (19) is linear in v; and since v can
take any values, it would be possible to violate (19) unless
a ¼ 0; and b 0; ð20:1; 2Þ
where (20.1) leads to the so-called Liu identities and (20.2) gives rise to the residual entropy
inequality. It follows from (20.1) that the Lagrange multipliers kv; kc; km; k‘ and kZ are given by
kv ¼ 0; kc ¼  c
h
oW
oc
; km ¼  1
‘h
oW
o _m
; k‘ ¼  1
Kh
oW
o _‘
; kZ ¼  cm
h
oW
oZ
: ð21:15Þ
The fact that p is also linear in (g3)
, (g4)
 and _D results in the three restrictions
oW
og3
¼ 0; oW
og4
¼ 0; oW
oD
¼ 0 ð22Þ
on the free energy W. In a similar fashion, the linearity of p in grad m0; grad ‘0; grad _m; grad _‘;
grad D; grad Z; grad g1; grad g2; grad g3 and grad g4 leads to the restrictions
0 ¼ o/
oa
þ km oh
oa
þ k‘ oC
oa
 1
h
oq
oa
; a 2 f‘0; m0g; ð23Þ
0 ¼ o/
oA
þ km oh
oA
þ k‘ oC
oA
 1
h
oq
oA
; A 2 fD;Zg; ð24Þ
0 ¼ sym o/
og
þ km oh
og
þ k‘ oC
og
 1
h
oq
og
 
; g 2 fg1;g2;g3;g4g; ð25Þ
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 179
0 ¼ cm
‘
oW
og1
 h
‘
ok
o_m
 h; ð36Þ
0 ¼ cm
K
oW
og2
 h
K
ok
o _‘
 C: ð37Þ
Expressions (33) and (34) indicate that k is not a function of m0, ‘0, D and Z, and its functional
dependence can now be identified in a first step as
k ¼ k^ðm; _m; ‘; _‘; c; h;g1;g2;g3;g4Þ: ð38Þ
In view of (38), integrating (35) with one another in an odd order results in
k ¼ A1g1 þ B1g3 þ C1ðg1  g3Þ þ d1ðm; _m; c; ‘; _‘; h;g2;g4Þ;
¼ A2g2 þ B2g4 þ C2ðg2  g4Þ þ d2ðm; _m; c; ‘; _‘; h;g1;g3Þ;
ð39Þ
where A1,2 and B1,2 are second rank skew-symmetric tensors, C1,2 third rank skew-symmetric
tensors and d1,2 undetermined vector functions of which the functional dependencies are indicated.
Besides, A1, B1 and C1 depend upon c; ‘; _m; _‘; m; h;g2 and g4, but not on g1 and g3, while A2, B2
and C2 depend on the variables c; ‘; _m; _‘; m; h;g1 and g3, but are not functions of g2 and g4. Since,
moreover, the vector k must be isotropic, it follows immediately that A1,2 = B1,2 = 0 and
C1,2 = 0, because there are no isotropic second and third rank skew-symmetric tensors. Thus, (39)
reduces to
k ¼ d^1ðm; _m; c; h; ‘; _‘;g2;g4Þ ¼ d^2ðm; _m; c; h; ‘; _‘;g1;g3Þ ¼ d^ðm; _m; c; h; ‘; _‘Þ ¼ 0: ð40Þ
The expression (40) is so obtained because there is no isotropic vector function of only scalar
arguments. Thus, the classical expression for the entropy flux / ¼ q=h is obtained. This result will
not follow, when the free energy depends either upon _m or _‘: Indeed, in that case km and k‘ are
nontrivially determined by the free energy and so the entropy flux must deviate in direction from that
of the heat flux by a contribution proportional to h, the flux of the evolution of m, and a contribution
proportional to C; the flux of the evolution of ‘. With (40), h and C can respectively be obtained from
(36) and (37), which read
h ¼ cm
‘
oW
og1
¼ cm
‘
oW
ogradm
; C ¼ cm
K
oW
og2
¼ cm
K
oW
ograd‘
; ð41Þ
which are known provided that the free energy W is prescribed. With this, the Liu-identities are fully
exploited.
Substituting (21.2), (30), (32) and (40) into (29) results in the residual entropy inequality in the
reduced form
hp ¼ p bþ h  g2  cmf ‘f g _mþ 
n
‘
 cmKP
 
_‘ q  g4
h
þ tþ mpI þ ‘h g1 þ KC g2f g D cm
oW
oZ
U 0; ð42Þ
where I is the second-rank identity tensor and the notations
p  c2 oW
oc
; b  cm oW
om
; n  ‘cm oW
o‘
; ð43:13Þ
have been used, which are known as the thermodynamic, m-induced and ‘-induced configuration
pressures, respectively [19], [21]. These pressures are determined once the free energy is prescribed.
(42) will be further investigated in the context of thermodynamic equilibrium.
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 181
PjE ¼ 
1
cmK
n
‘
 cm oW
oZ
 oU
o _‘

E
; q ¼ cmh oW
oZ
oU
og4

E
: ð52:1; 2Þ
Equation (50) indicates that the plastic, frictional and other non-conservative effects have
contributed to f |E, and hence influence the evolution of the volume fraction, provided that U is a
function of _m: This result is significant, since these inelastic effects can in the present model enter
the balance equation (4), which was previously only devoted to the force balance along the lines
connecting the centers of the grains. In this regard (4) can newly be interpreted as a kind of
balance of contact interactions between the grains in the present model. Similar results have also
been obtained in e.g. [28]. In addition, relation (51) is of particular importance: it indicates that
normal stress differences can exist either due to inhomogeneous distributions of the voids or the
mean free path of the grains, or due to the internal friction. It leads to a corollary that a granular
heap can exist even under homogeneous distributions of the grains, provided that the internal
friction exists (which is always the case in granular flows). In view of these, the expression (51)
shows a good potential to account for all possible elastic and inelastic contributions to the stress
tensor of dry granula materials in static/quasi-static situations. Furthermore, (52.1) illustrates that
the frictional effects not only enter the balance equation for the volume fraction through its
production, but also influence the production associated with the internal length, subsequently
affecting the evolution of the mean free path between the grains, provided that U depends on _‘:
Expressions (50) and (52.1) demonstrate obviously that the evolutions of the microstructures of
dry granular flows can be affected by the internal friction among the grains, and hence their
behaviour at the macroscale can change correspondingly. Lastly, (52.2) shows a non-vanishing
‘‘generalized’’ heat flux in thermodynamic equilibrium which does not need to correspond to its
physical counterpart. Alternatively, it leads to an additional restriction on U if q is required to
vanish in equilibrium, namely, U;g4 jE ¼ 0:
The functional dependency of U needs be discussed separately. Different prescriptions of U
allow different plastic characteristics to appear in dry granular flows. The result that U ¼ U^ð; _‘; _mÞ
obtained from the present theory points at a possible extension of hypoplastic theories.6 In
hypoplastic theories nowdays U is considered at most a function of Z, D and m (see e.g. [12],
[33]). Although the existing hypoplastic models with such a functional dependency can well
describe some distinctive plastic features such as memory of loading history and hysteresis of
granular materials like soils, the deviations between the theories and experiments become
obviously when the deformation amplitude decreases, implying that some improvements of
hypoplasticity may be needed. The result from (50) and (52.1) that U ¼ U^ð; _‘; _mÞ may become
one of the possibilities of the extensions of the functional dependency of U; and thus provides a
theoretical framework for further experimental studies on hypoplasticity. It is noted that the
expressions (50)–(52) reduce to those obtained in [19] when plastic effects are not considered [i.e.,
by setting U ¼ 0 and W 6¼ W^ð;ZÞ].
It should be mentioned that the proposed constitutive class (11) is suitable for granular materials
with compressible grains. For granular materials with incompressible grains, c is no longer an
independent field quantity. In this case one can delete it from (11) and repeat the above
thermodynamic analysis. The same constitutive restrictions will be obtained, provided that here the
thermodynamic pressure is replaced by p = @ckc and is no longer determined by the free energy as
expressed in (43.1), but should be regarded as an independent field.
6 Hypoplasticity denotes a family of constitutive equations describing the inelastic behaviour of soils undergoing cyclic
or quasi-static deformations. It was proposed by D. Kolymbas in the end of 1970s, and since then is widely applied in
geotechnical engineering. We will discuss it later on.
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 183
W^
e ¼ a0ðm mmÞ2ð‘ ‘mÞ2 þ b0
mm
m1  m
 	2
‘2g1  g1 þ ‘mg1  g2 þ m2g2  g2
 
; ð57Þ
where a0,b0 = funct.(mm,‘m,c,h) = constant and m? is the volume fraction corresponding to the
densest possible packing of the solid particles. It has been demonstrated that (57) is well-
representative for the free energy of dry granular mass flows when frictional effects are excluded
(see e.g. [14], [17], [18], [20], [28], [29], [40], [41]). Substituting (57) into (56) results in
cmW ¼ a0ðm mmÞ2ð‘ ‘mÞ2 þ b0
mm
m1  m
 	2
‘2g1  g1 þ ‘mg1  g2 þ m2g2  g2
 þ W^f : ð58Þ
Requiring that cmW should be positive and has a minimum, namely zero value at m = mm, ‘ = ‘m,
|g1| = 0 and |g2| = 0 we conclude that a0, b0 and W
f should be non-negative. Equation (58) defines
the Helmholtz free energy per unit mass employed in the present study.
Viscosity: The viscous characteristics of dry granular mass flows are taken into account through
the viscosity l in the Cauchy stress tensor. On the basis of Bagnold’s experiments that the normal
and shear stresses of flowing dry granular materials depend on the squares of the velocity gradient
and bulk density [43], l is postulated, according to [44], in the form
l ¼ l0c2
mm
m1  m
 	8
N; with N ¼ N^ðID; IID; IIIDÞ[ 0; l0 ¼ const:[ 0: ð59Þ
The power 8 for the contributions of the variations of m is chosen to fit the experimental results of
Bagnold [43] for 1.32 mm diameter wax spheres [44]. N is an unspecified function of the three
invariants of D and should be positive to ensure that the viscosity l is non-negative. Since in the
numerical calculations only fully-developed isochoric flows are considered, in wich the invariants ID
and IIID vanish, N can furthermore be assumed in the form
N ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
jIIDj
p
; ! l ¼ l0c2
mm
m1  m
 	8 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
jIIDj
p
: ð60Þ
Equation (60) defines the viscosity of dry granular mass flows employed in the present study. This
expression has been employed intensively in various works and is justified for the viscosity of dry
granular flows (see e.g. [16]–[20], [28], [29], [40], [41], [44]–[46]).
Hypoplasticity: Different prescriptions of U (the production in the evolution of the internal
friction Z) allow different plastic characteristics to appear in the considered granular material. Here
we consider U to have be a hypoplastic form given by [24], [33]9
U ¼ U^ðm;D;ZÞ ¼ fsðm; IZÞ a2Dþ ZtrðZDÞ þ fdðmÞaðZþ ZÞkDk
 
; ð61Þ
with the notations Z ¼ Z=trðZÞ; Z ¼ Z 1
3
I and jjDjj ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
trD2
p
; where Z is the normalized
tensor of Z (i.e., versor), Z the deviator of Z and a a positive constant. The scalar functions f s
and f d are, respectively, the stiffness and density factors. They both represent the effects of the
configurations of the grains on the granular characteristics like strain hardening/softening and
mean-pressure dependent bulk density. The positive constant a is related to the stress state Zc and
the frictional angle uc in the critical state (this will be discussed later on); its explicit expression
9 In the context of hypoplasticity U has to satisfy certain conditions, e.g. the homogeneity of first degree of D, and is
essentially assigned to the Cauchy stress tensor t. However, in our theory this concept is extended to the internal frcition
Z. From this perspective, Z serves as a ‘‘bridge’’, with which the hypoplastic effects can enter into the revised
Goodman–Cowin theory proposed in [19]–[21].
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 185
The complete field equations of fully-developed isothermal, isochoric dry granular mass flows
with incompressible grains can now be obtained by substituting (61)–(65) into (1)–(2) and (4)–(5). In
these formulations the volume fraction m, the internal length ‘, the velocity v and the internal friction
Z are the unknown field quantities. In addition, since c is constant, the thermodynamic pressure p can
no longer be obtained by use of (43.1), and should be considered an unknown field quantity. Since
the number of the unknowns equals the number of the available equations, the system is likely
mathematically well-posed, and one has the chance to obtain the values of the unknowns by
integrating the field equations and the associated boundary conditions simultaneously.
5 Concluding remarks
In the present paper, the revised Goodman–Cowin theory with an independent internal length
proposed in [19]–[21] was extended to incorporate plastic effects to establish an elasto-visco-plastic
constitutive model for dry granular mass flows. In doing so, an additional internal tensor-valued
variable Z was introduced to account for the internal friction and other non-conservative forces
which can yield plastic effects by reasonable postulation. A thermodynamic analysis, based on the
Mu¨ller–Liu entropy principle, was performed to deduce the ultimate equilibrium expressions of the
constitutive variables; the non-equilibrium responses were then proposed by use of a quasi-linear
theory. With these, a complete set of thermodynamically consistent constitutive models was
established. Results show that the internal friction enters not only the formulations of the equilibrium
expressions of the equilibrated intrinsic body force f and the production associated with the internal
length ‘, but also the equilibrium expression of the Cauchy stress tensor t [see (50)–(52)]. While (50)
and (52.1) allow a more general interpretation of the balances of equilibrated force (4) and internal
length (5), (51) indicates that normal stress effects can result from either the inhomogeneous
distributions of the grains, or the internal friction between the grains. Hence a granular heap can still
exist even though the grains are distributed uniformly, provided that the internal friction does not
vanish. Obviously, these release the restrictions of the Goodman–Cowin theory, and the present
model demonstrates a good capability of taking all possible elastic, inelastic and viscous effects of
granular materials in static/quasi–static as well as in dynamic situations appropriately into account.
The established constitutive model was subsequently specified for fully-developed, isothermal dry
granular mass flows with incompressible grains. In doing so, specific forms of free energy, viscosity and
plastic features were postulated on the basis of experimental works. Hypoplasticity was in particular
incorporated to account for the plastic behavior of granular flows through the prescription of U: In fact,
different prescriptions of U; the constitutive part of the evolution of Z, allow different plastic features to
be captured in granular flows. The result that U ¼ U^ð; _m; _‘Þ provides a possible extension of the
hypoplastic theories which can be further undertaken.
In the second part of the present study [25], the simplified thermodynamically consistent
constitutive model will then be applied to study Benchmark flow problems, namely steady,
isothermal simple plane shear flow, inclined gravity-driven surface flow and plane Poiseuille flow of
dry granular masses with incompressible grains. Further evaluation of the potential and limitations of
the present constitutive model will be drawn from the results of the numerical calculations.
Acknowledgments
The author is indebted to the National Science Council, Taiwan, for the financial support through the research
grant NSC 96-222/-E-006-078-MY3, and the two referees for their detailed reviews which led to improve-
ments.
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 187
[27] Svendsen, B., Hutter, K., Laloui, L.: Constitutive models for granular materials including quasi-static
frictional behaviour: toward a thermodynamic theory of plasticity. Continuum Mech. Thermodyn. 11,
263–275 (1999)
[28] Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: Shearing flows of a dry granular material – hypoplastic constitutive
theory and numerical simulations. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 30, 1409–1437 (2006)
[29] Kirchner, N., Teufel, A.: Thermodynamically consistent modelling of abrasive granular materials. II:
Thermodynamic equilibrium and applications to steady shear flows. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 458, 3053–
3077 (2002)
[30] Mindlin, R.D.: Microstructure in linear elasticity. Arch. Rat. Mech. Anal. 16, 51–78 (1964)
[31] Eringen, A.E., Kadafar, C.B.: Polar field theories. In: Continuum Physics IV. Academic, London
(1976)
[32] Ko, H.Y., Scott, R.F.: J. Soil Mech. Found. Div., Proc. ASCE, 93, 137–156 (1967)
[33] Bauer, E., Herle, I.: Stationary states in hypoplasticity. In: Kolymbas, D. (ed.) Constitutive Modelling
of Granular Materials, pp. 167–192. Springer, New York (2000)
[34] Gudehus, G., Goldscheider, M., Winter, H.: Mechanical properties of sand and clay and numerical
integration methods: some sources of errors and bounds of accuracy. In: Gudehus, G. (ed.) Finite
Elements of Geomechanics, pp. 121–150. Wiley, New York (1977)
[35] Kolymbas, D.: An outline of hypoplasticity. Arch. Appl. Mech. 61, 143–151 (1991)
[36] Hutter, K.: The foundations of thermodynamics, its basic postulates and implications. A review of
modern thermodynamics. Acta Mech. 27, 1–54 (1976)
[37] Mu¨ller, I.: Thermodynamics. Pitmann (1986)
[38] Liu, I.: Method of Lagrange multipliers for exploitation of the entropy principle. Arch. Rat. Mech.
Anal. 46, 131–148 (1972)
[39] Truesdell, C., Noll, W.: The nonlinear theories of mechanics. In: Flu¨gge, S. (ed.) Handbuch der
Physik, III/3. Springer, New York (1965)
[40] Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: A constitutive theory of fluid-saturated granular materials and its application in
gravitational flows. Rheol. Acta. 38, 214–223 (1999)
[41] Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: Shearing flows in a Goodman–Cowin type granular material-theory and
numerical results. Part. Sci. Technol. 17, 97–124 (1999)
[42] Hutter, K., Wang, Y.: Phenomenological thermodynamics and entropy principle. In: Greven, A.,
Keller, G., Warnecke, G. (eds.) Entropy, pp. 57–77. Princeton University Press, NJ (2003)
[43] Bagnold, R.A.: Experiments on a gravity free dispersion of large solid spheres in a Newtonian fluid
under shear. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 225, 49–63 (1954)
[44] Savage, S.B.: Gravity flow of cohesionless granular materials in chutes and channels. J. Fluid Mech.
92, 53–96 (1979)
[45] Nunziato, J.W., Passman, S.L.: Gravitational flows of granular materials with incompressible grains.
J. Rheol. 24, 395–420 (1980)
[46] Savage, S.B., Lun, C.K.K.: Particle size segregation in inclined chute flow of dry cohesionless granular
solids. J. Fluid Mech. 189, 311–335 (1988)
[46] Marcher, Th., Vermeer, P.A., Wolffersdorf, P.-A.: Hypoplastic and elastoplastic modelling – a
comparison with test data. In: Kolymbas, D. (ed.) Constitutive Modelling of Granular Materials, pp.
167–192. Springer, New York (2000)
Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural effects 189
the evolutions of the volume fraction and internal length, can significantly be affected by the internal
friction among the grains, and hence the macroscopic behavior of the materials can change
correspondingly. In addition, the equilibrium expression of the Cauchy stress tensor indicates that
normal stress differences can exist either due to inhomogeneous distributions of the grains, or due to
the internal friction. It leads to a corollary that a granular heap can exist even under homogeneous
distributions of the grains, provided that the internal friction exists (which is always the case in
granular flows). Regarding these preferred advantages, the proposed constitutive model in [1]
demonstrates a good capability of taking possible elastic, inelastic and viscous behavior of dry
granular materials in static/quasi-static as well as in dynamic situations simultaneously into account.
The model was subsequently simplified by prescribing specific forms of the free energy, viscosity
and the production of the internal friction. Hypoplasticity was in particular incorporated to model
this production, and the complete set of thermodynamically consistent constitutive equations for
fully-developed, isothermal dry granular flows with incompressible grains was obtained.
For convenience, the related balance equations and the deduced constitutive equations are given in
the following for reference [1]:
• the balance equations
mass 0 ¼ _cmþ c _mþ cm div v; ð1Þ
linear momentum 0 ¼ cm _v div t cmb; ð2Þ
equilibrated force 0 ¼ cmð _‘_mþ ‘€mÞ  divh cmf ; ð3Þ
internal length 0 ¼ cmK€‘ divC cmP; ð4Þ
evolution of internal friction 0 ¼ _Z ½X;Z U; ð5Þ
where c is the true mass density of the grains, m the volume fraction, v the velocity, t the Cauchy stress
tensor, b the specific body force, ‘ an independent internal length expressing the mean free path
between the grains, h the equilibrated stress vector, f the equilibrated intrinsic body force, K a
constant weighting factor, C and P the flux and production associated with ‘, respectively, Z a tensor-
valued spatial internal variable describing the internal friction and other non-conservative forces
among the granules, X any orthogonal rotation of the material point and U a tensor-valued
constitutive relation for the production of Z. The notation _} denotes the material time derivative of };
i.e., _} ¼ o}=otþ ðgrad}Þ  v; and ½X;Z ¼ XZ ZX: Equations (1) and (2) are the traditional
balances of mass and linear momentum, respectively, except that the bulk density q is decomposed
into q = cm. Since the material is not considered micropolar or Cosserat-type and the effects of
particle rotation are excluded, the balance of angular momentum reduces to its traditional form,
namely, the Cauchy stress tensor is symmetric, which can be fulfilled by prescribing a specific
constitutive class and is not included here. Furthermore, m and ‘ are introduced as independent field
quantities. Since they are regarded as internal variables, their evolutions are respectively described by
the dynamic balance Eqs. (3) and (4). While Eq. (3) has been demonstrated to be able to describe the
force balances along the lines connecting the centers of the grains, Eq. (4) can appropriately account
for the influences of the mean free path between the grains [25], [26]. Equation (5) is assigned to the
evolution of Z, of which the LHS is the so-called ‘‘corrotational’’ objective time derivative of Z.1 It
1 Here we use the concept of ‘‘microcontinuum’’, an idea proposed by Mindlin [5] and Eringen via his notation of a
‘‘micromorphic continuum’’ [6]. In this respect, for each deformable granular microcontinuum the Cauchy stress tensor
t is its constitutive quantity, whilst Z denotes all the internal friction and other non-conservative forces inside the
microcontinuum, which cannot be seen from the perspective outside the microcontinuum. In fact, Z is a
phenomenological generalization of the Mohr–Coulomb model for internal friction in a granular material at low
energy and high grain volume fraction. For details see [1].
192 C. Fang
2 Simple plane shear flow
Consider a granular fluid between two infinite parallel horizontal rough plates with the prescribed
configuration and the coordinate system, as shown in Fig. 1. While the lower plate is held stationary,
the upper plate moves parallel to the lower plate with a constant velocity V0.
Field equations and boundary conditions: A steady, isothermal, fully-developed granular flow
with incompressible grains is considered. In view of the relative motion between the two plates, it is
plausible to assume that the parallel flow prevails, namely,
v ¼ ½uðyÞ; 0; 0; m ¼ m^ðyÞ; ‘ ¼ ‘^ðyÞ; p ¼ p^ðyÞ; b ¼ ½0;b; 0 ð11Þ
hold, where u(y) is the velocity component in the x-direction. Substituting Eqs. (11) into Eqs. (2)–
(4) results in the balance equations in the forms
dtxy
dy
¼ 0; dtyy
dy
 cmb ¼ 0; dhy
dy
þ cmf ¼ 0; dCy
dy
þ cmP ¼ 0; ð12Þ
where the balance of mass (1) is automatically satisfied by the assumption (11). While Eqs. (12.1,2)–
(12.1,4) are respectively the balances of linear momentum in the x- and y-directions, Eqs. (12.3,4)
denote the balances of equilibrated force and internal length, respectively. In fact, the considered
fully-developed stationary flow corresponds to the critical state in the geomechanical terminology,
which is defined as the state in which _q ¼ 0 and t ¼ 0 (see, e.g., [7] and [8]). Applying this
definition to Z, namely Z ¼ 0; and noting that in such a state the density factor f d is set equal to
unity, results in a vanishing U; In view of this, Eq. (10) reduces to
0 ¼ fs a2cDþ ZtrðZDÞ þ acðZþ ZÞjjDjj
 
; ð13Þ
where ac is the value of a at the critical state given by ac ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
8=27
p
sinuc; and uc is the critical
friction angle (see, e.g., [8]). Since f s should not vanish in general, all the terms inside the bracket {}
should vanish in order to fulfill (13). Substituting (11.1) into this condition gives rise to three non-
linear algebraic equations of the unknowns Zxx, Zxy and Zyy, viz.,
0 ¼ ZxxZxysþ acð2Zxx  1
3
Þ; 0 ¼ ZyyZxysþ ac 2Zyy  1
3
 
; 0 ¼ a2csþ Z2xys þ 2acZxy ð14Þ
with s  Dxy=jjDjj ¼ Dxy=jDxyj: Obviously, the only non-trivial solutions of Eqs. (14) are
Zxx = Zyy and Zxy ¼ s
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
8=3
p
sinucZyy: In addition, from the computation of the x-component of
(5) by choosing X to be W, Zxx should be a constant and can take any prescribed value. Thus, in the
considered flow the evolution equation of the internal friction (5) is fortunately decoupled from other
bL
u(y)
y
x
V0
Fig. 1. Sketch of the simple plane shear
(Couette) flow and the coordinate system
194 C. Fang
0 ¼ d
dy
2l0c
2 mm
m1  m
 8
du
dy
 2
þðf2Zxy þ f3Z2xyÞ
1  ms
1  m
( )
; 0 ¼ dtyy
dy
 cmb; ð23Þ
where Eqs. (21) and (22) are respectively the balances of equilibrated force and internal length,
while Eqs. (23) denote the linear momentum balances in the x- and y-directions, respectively. In
deriving Eq. (21) the pressure p has been replaced by tyy according to (20). Thus, instead of p, tyy is
the unknown quantity in the formulations (21)–(23).
Boundary conditions originate from the interactions between the walls and the grains near the walls,
which are essentially inelastic collisions and frictional sliding. It has been demonstrated that the
boundaries also behave as energy sources/sinks of the fluctuating kinetic energies of the grains, and the
field quantities may have random fluctuations about their mean values (see, e.g., [11] or [12]). Due to
these the traditional ‘‘no-slip’’ condition for the velocity may not be valid for most cases due to the
velocity difference of the boundaries and the grains on those boundaries (see, e.g., [13] or [14]).
However, for our model it is assumed that the collisions of the grains are very inelastic and the surfaces
of the grains and the walls are sufficiently rough, so that during motions the grains still stick to the solid
boundaries. Besides, following previous works and experimental studies (e.g. [3], [7], [8], [15]–[20]),
the values of m and ‘ on the two plates as well as the value of tyy on the upper plate can be prescribed.
5
With these, the boundary conditions associated with (21)–(23) are postulated, viz.,
mð0Þ ¼ mðLÞ ¼ mb; ‘ð0Þ ¼ ‘ðLÞ ¼ ‘b; uð0Þ ¼ 0; uðLÞ ¼ V0; tyyðLÞ ¼ tb; ð24Þ
where the subscript b indicates that the indexed quantities are boundary values. Since the employed
boundary conditions (24) are somewhat not realistic to the reported experiments (see, e.g., [23],
[24]), the numerical simulations should be understood as a parametric study, and the qualitative
comparisons between the experiments and model outcomes are of interest to estimate the model
performance.
Nondimensionalization: Define the following dimensionless parameters:
n2  a0
b0
; ‘  ‘
‘m
; p  tyy
a0m2m‘
2
m
; y  ny; L  nL; m  m
mm
; mb  mbmm ;
m1  m1mm ; ms 
ms
mm
; u  u
V0
; S1  cba0mmn‘2m
; N1 
f2Zyy þ f3Z2yy
a0m2m‘
2
m
; N2 
f2Zxy þ f3Z2xy
2l0c2V
2
0 n
2
;
ð25:113Þ
in which N1 and N2 both denote the effects of hypoplastic-related forces. It should be noted that
(25.13) suggests that N2 is not independent of N1, since Zxy ¼ s
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
8=3
p
sin ucZyy at critical state.
Numerical tests have also shown that the influence of the variation of N2 on the flow field is not
significant. For simplicity, in our numerical simulations we always choose the same values for N2
as those for N1. Substituting this and Eqs. (25) into Eqs. (21)–(23) gives rise to the dimensionless
field equations in the forms
0 ¼ d
dy
1
‘ðm1  mÞ2
2‘2
dm
dy
þ ‘m d
‘
dy
 ( )
 1
m‘
pþ ðm2  1Þð‘ 1Þ2 þ ‘2 mþ m1
m m1
dm
dy
 2(
N1 1  mmms
1  mmm

 1
m‘ðm1  mÞ2
2m2‘
m1  m
dm
dy
d‘
dy
þ 2m
2m1
m1  m
d‘
dy
 2( )
; ð26Þ
5 A further discussion of the boundary conditions can be found, e.g., in [21], [22].
196 C. Fang
iterative step (k ? 1). Thus, sequences of functions mð0ÞðyÞ;mð1ÞðyÞ;mð2ÞðyÞ; . . .; ‘ð0ÞðyÞ; ‘ð1ÞðyÞ;
‘ð2ÞðyÞ; . . . and uð0ÞðyÞ; uð1ÞðyÞ; uð2ÞðyÞ; . . . are determined in the following manner: if the initial
estimated mð0ÞðyÞ; ‘ð0ÞðyÞ and uð0ÞðyÞ are given, then mð1ÞðyÞ;mð2ÞðyÞ; . . .; ‘ð1ÞðyÞ; ‘ð2ÞðyÞ; . . . and
uð1ÞðyÞ; uð2ÞðyÞ; . . . are calculated successively as the solutions of the boundary-value problem (33)
and (34).
Usually, to achieve a better convergence, the so-called method of successive under-relaxation is
used. We solve the boundary-value problem (33) and (34) for the iterative step (k ? 1) to obtain
estimated values of mkþ1; ‘kþ1; and ukþ1 : ~mkþ1;~‘kþ1; and ~ukþ1; then mkþ1; ‘kþ1; and ukþ1 are defined
by the formulas
nkþ1 ¼ nk þ xð~nkþ1  nkÞ; 0\x\1; n 2 fm; ‘; ug; ð35Þ
where x is the under-relaxation parameter, which should be chosen with caution to reach convergent
iterations. For the iteration procedure the dimensionless profiles
mð0Þ ¼ mb; ‘ð0Þ ¼ ‘b; uð0Þ ¼ y=L; ð36Þ
are proposed as starting guessed solutions of (33) and (34). The iteration procedure is carried out
until a given error tolerance between two iteration steps (here chosen as 10@12) is satisfied.
Numerical results: Typical calculated profiles of u and m for various values of L; S1, pb; and N1
are shown in Figs. 2–5, respectively. In these figures the data of the dashed curves are quoted from
[3]. Figure 2 shows that for a narrow channel (small LÞ the granular flow is similarly to an
incompressible Newtonian fluid (dotted line): u is nearly linear across the channel, and near the two
plates m and u suffer strong variations, which are reminiscent of dilatancy under shearing. Increasing
L results in an increasing tendency toward two thin regions, called shear layers with high shear rates
near the two solid plates, corresponding to a shear-thinning effect. A reduced shearing in the center,
in which the granular material remains almost un-affected by the shearing from the boundaries,
behaves much like a rigid solid body. When hypoplastic effects are included, these phenomena
become more obvious: the calculated values of u and m with hypoplastic effects are steeper and
larger than those without such effects, respectively. This is significant and makes sense, since, when
the plastic feature of the material is included, plastic deformations should occur in the places where
the shearing is largest. In this case they occur in the shear layers, resulting in larger gradients of u
and m there. Consequently, the grains in shear layers are colliding with one another stronger when
plastic deformations occur, and hence resulting in denser packing of the grains and more rigid-body-
like behavior in the core region. It is also noted that the obtained profiles of u and m coincide
qualitatively with the reported experiments, see, e.g., [23], [24], and the model performance is to
some extent approved.
Figure 3 illustrates the influences on u and m when the parameter S1 varies. It is obvious from
Fig. 3 that the transmission of the shear is less effective for larger values of S1; the dilatation is
mostly effective in two thin layers near the two plates. In these regions the grains collide strongly
with one another, a process that is manifest by stronger variations of m and u: A possible
interpretation is that as S1 increases, the configuration of grains (related to the variations of m and uÞ
cannot be altered with ease. In the middle of the channel there exists a relatively thicker layer in
which the configuration of the grains remains nearly un-affected by the externally applied shear,
where the grains behave like a rigid solid body. When the hypoplastic features are taken into
account, plastic deformations occur in the shear layers, resulting in the steeper and more convex
profiles of u and m; respectively, than those only with elastic deformations. These predictions
confirm the experimental outcomes.
For various values of pb; Fig. 4 shows that as pb increases, the grain flow has an increasing
tendency toward a rigid motion near the center of the channel, whilst the shearing can only exist in
198 C. Fang
uncertainties of the parameters f2 and f3 (see (25)). This problem has been studied by Fang et al. [7].
It shows that when a negative value is assigned to N1, from the calculated results the grains seem to
gather themselves near the two plates, whilst in the core region the grain distribution is rather dilute.
Although the above situations can sometimes occur when the grain concentration is low (see, e.g.,
[14], [25]), namely in the cases where the formation of granular clusters near the boundaries due to
the internal friction take place, they belong to the transient phenomena between the grain-inertia and
rate-independent regions. In such a situation the granular flow cannot be treated as a continuum, and
the proposed model losses its validity. Thus, in our numerical calculations N1 is always assigned
with a positive value. It is seen from Fig. 5 that increasing the value of N1 tends to cause steeper and
0
a b
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.6
0.8
1
0.9 0.95 1 1.05 1.1 1.15
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y¯
0.4
¯L
y¯
¯L
u¯ v¯
¯πb
¯π b
Fig. 4. Calculated profiles of u and m for various values of pb (¼ 0.1, 0.25, 0.5), under L ¼ 10; S1 = 0 and
N1 = 0.3 for a simple plane shear flow. Dotted: Newtonian fluid; solid/dashed: with/without hypoplastic
effects
a b
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0.9 0.95 1 1.05 1.1 1.15
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y¯
¯L
y¯
¯L
u¯ v¯
Ξ1 Ξ1
Fig. 5. Calculated profiles of u and m for various values of N1 (¼ 0, 0.1, 0.25, 0.5), under L ¼ 10; S1 = 0
and pb ¼ 0:5 for a simple plane shear flow. Dotted: Newtonian fluid; solid/dashed: with/without hypoplastic
effects
200 C. Fang
The dimensionless boundary conditions associated with (37)–(39), following the works of [3], [7],
[8], [15]–[20], are proposed in the forms
mð0Þ ¼ mb; ‘ð0Þ ¼ ‘b; uð0Þ ¼ 0; dm
dy
ðLÞ ¼ du
dy
ðLÞ ¼ d
‘
dy
ðLÞ ¼ 0; pðLÞ ¼ pb: ð40:15Þ
Equation (40.3) is the traditional ‘‘non-slip’’ condition for the velocity u on the inclined plate,
which should hold for sufficiently rough plane. Equation (40.4) describes vanishing gradients of m
and u perpendicular to the free surface, which is motivated by the traction-free-surface
assumption, and is equally extended to the gradient of ‘ due to the similarity between m and ‘ [7].
While conditions (40.1,2) assign respectively fixed values to m and ‘ on the solid boundary, p on
the free surface is prescribed by (40.5). However, these conditions are somewhat uncertain. They
may be defended, since they emerge as natural boundary conditions in the variational formulation
[4]. In addition, for these gravity-driven surface flows the layer thickness is essentially usually a
result of the upstream flow conditions [26], [27]; they cannot be prescribed in the numerical
simulations. Moreover, the total mass flux across the section and the phenomenon that the upper-
most part of the granular flow often moves as a passive layer on top of a fluidized boundary layer
can cause difficulties in assigning the boundary conditions [22], [28]. However, as a first step, Eqs.
(40) are employed for the numerical calculations in the present study. In doing so the numerical
simulations are then understood as a parametric study.
The emerging two-point boundary value problem (37)–(40) is solved numerically by use of the
iteration technique parameterized for L;S1;N1; and pb: The inclined angle h;mb, and ‘b are
respectively chosen to be 30, 0.919 and 1.0.
Numerical results: For comparison, the calculated values of u are normalized by their maximum
amplitudes. The calculated profiles of u and m are shown in Figs. 7–10 for various variations of
L;S1; pb and N1, respectively. Figure 7 illustrates that when L is small, the profile of u is close to
that of an incompressible Newtonian fluid (parabolic dotted curve) and the m -profile is almost
uniform across the layer. Increasing L results in an increasing tendency that the shearing is bounded
in a thin layer (fluidized layer) near the bottom plate; above which u can be regarded as almost
constant, a distinctive behavior of a pseudo-plastic fluid (passive layer). The value of m decreases
monotonically from its value on the free surface toward the solid plate. In the region near the solid
plate the decreasing rate of m is fairly rapid due to the increasing shearing, obviously a dilatancy
effect. When hypoplastic effects are included, plastic deformations occur in the fluidized layer above
the solid plane; the obtained profiles of u and m are sharper and larger in amplitude respectively, and
the shear-thinning is more obvious than without such features. As expected, these resemble the same
tendency shown in the previous section.
When S1 increases, the solid character of the granular flow also increases, as shown in Fig. 8:
there is an increasing tendency that the thickness of the passive layer gets larger, whilst the fluidized
layer becomes correspondingly thinner. As S1 increases, dilatancy of the granular material is
enhanced near the solid boundary. In comparison with the results without plastic features,
hypoplastic influences are recognized in the larger values of the velocity gradients and the volume
fraction in the fluidized and passive layers, respectively. These are due to the plastic deformations
occurring in the fluidized layer.
The influences of the variations of pb on the free surface are shown in Fig. 9. In fact, this study
is to some degree academic, since the free boundary is assumed to be traction free. However, it is
observed that the embroilment of the air above the flow surface may sometimes occur in a
granular flow, causing considerable normal forces on the free surface. It is intended to study such
effects by the calculated results. It is seen from the figures that increasing pb tends to enhance the
grain interlocking, resulting in more rigid-body-like profiles of u and larger values of m in the
202 C. Fang
layer, implying that larger plastic deformations occurring in the fluidized layer. Figure 10 resembles
the similar tendency shown in Fig. 5.
4 Plane Poiseuille flow
A one-dimensional, fully-developed granular flow between two infinite vertical parallel rough plates
with the configuration and the coordinate system in Fig. 11 is considered. The flow is driven by a
constant pressure gradient (the gravity).
0
a b
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.6
0.8
1
0.9 0.95 1 1.05 1.1 1.15
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y¯
0.4
¯L
y¯
¯L
u¯/u¯max v¯
¯πb
¯π b
Fig. 9. Calculated profiles of u and m for various values of pb (¼ 0, 0.1, 0.25), under N1 = 0.5, L ¼ 10 and
S1 = 0.025 for an inclined gravity-driven flow. Dotted: Newtonian fluid; solid/dashed: with/without
hypoplastic effects
a b
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0.9 0.95 1 1.05 1.1 1.15
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y¯
¯L
y¯
¯L
u¯/u¯max v¯
Ξ1
Ξ1
Fig. 10. Calculated profiles of u and m for various values of N1 (¼ 0, 0.1, 0.25, 0.5), under pb ¼ 0; L ¼ 10
and S1 = 0.025 for an inclined gravity-driven flow. Dotted: Newtonian fluid; solid/dashed: with/without
hypoplastic effects
204 C. Fang
curve). Again, with hypoplastic effects the velocity gradients in the shear layers are larger due to the
plastic deformations in these regions, which in turn result in the profiles of m larger in amplitude than
those without such features. This tendency resembles in the tendencies obtained in the previous two
problems.
Figure 13 shows that increasing pb tends to ‘‘push’’ the grains closer to one another, so that in the
center of the channel the grains interlock strongly. In such a situation the shearing can only exist in
relatively thin layers near the solid plates. Outside these boundary layers the grains move practically
as a plug flow. Again, the distributions of u and m with plastic features are sharper and larger in
amplitude than those without such effects, respectively. However, they are not very sensible to the
variations of pb; a tendency which has also been shown previously.
Figure 14 demonstrates the influences of the variations of N1: It seems that when N1 increases,
strong plastic deformations occur near the boundaries, resulting in larger velocity gradients in these
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0.9 0.95 1 1.05 1.1 1.15
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
a b
y¯
¯L
y¯
¯L
u¯/ u¯max v¯
¯L ¯L
Fig. 12. Calculated profiles of u and m for various values of L (¼ 5, 10, 20), under N1 = 0.5 and pb ¼ 0:1
for a vertical channel-flow. Dotted: Newtonian fluid; solid/dashed: with/without hypoplastic effects
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
0.9 0.95 1 1.05 1.1 1.15
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
y¯
¯L
y¯
¯L
u¯/ u¯max v¯
¯πb
¯πb
a b
Fig. 13. Calculated profiles of u and m for various values of pb (¼ 0.1, 0.25, 0.5), under N1 = 0.5 and
L ¼ 10 for a vertical channel-flow. Dotted: Newtonian fluid; solid/dashed: with/without hypoplastic effects
206 C. Fang
velocity and volume fraction distributions correspond qualitatively to almost known experiments
[23], [24]. These reveal then the evaluation of the proposed model: Since dry granular mass flows
like soils exhibit complex and coupled characteristics of elasticity, viscosity and plasticity
simultaneously, the proposed model demonstrates a better capability of taking these characteristics
into account, than do other purely viscoelastic models. Moreover, it is a well-known fact that
granular flows exhibit strong microstructural effects, and the proposed model is also able to account
for the microstructural effects by using two internal variables for the evolutions of the volume
fraction and mean free path among the grains. All these facts imply that the proposed
thermodynamically consistent constitutive model can to some extent describe the complex behavior
of granular media, and may be applied for two or three-dimensional simulations with realistic
boundary conditions to find possible applications in the fields of avalanches, debris or soil flows.
Acknowledgements
The author is indebted to the National Science Council, Taiwan, for the financial support through the research
grant NSC 96-2221-E-006-0784-MY3. The author also thanks the two referees for their detailed reviews
which led to improvements.
References
[1] Fang, C.: Modeling dry granular mass flows as elasto-visco-hypoplastic continua with microstructural
effects. I. Thermodynamically consistent constitutive model Acta Mech. (2008, in press)
[2] Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: A thermo-mechanical continuum theory with internal length for
cohesionless granular materials. Part I. A class of constitutive models. Cont. Mech. Thermodyn. 17(8),
545–576 (2006)
[3] Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: A thermo-mechanical continuum theory with internal length for
cohesionless granular materials. Part II. Non-equilibrium postulates and numerical simulations of
simple shear, plane Poiseuille and gravity driven problems. Cont. Mech. Thermodyn. 17(8), 577–607
(2006)
[4] Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: A variational principle for the revised Goodman–Cowin theory with
internal length. Arch. Appl. Mech. 76, 119–131 (2006)
[5] Mindlin, R.D.: Microstructure in linear elasticity. Arch. Rat. Mech. Anal. 16, 51–78 (1964)
[6] Eringen, A.E., Kadafar, C.B.: Polar field theories. In: Continuum Physics IV. Academic, NewYork
(1976)
[7] Fang, C., Wang, Y., Hutter, K.: Shearing flows of a dry granular material – hypoplastic constitutive
theory and numerical simulations. Int. J. Numer. Anal. Meth. Geomech. 30, 1409–1437 (2006)
[8] Kirchner, N., Teufel, A.: Thermodynamically consistent modelling of abrasive granular materials. II:
Thermodynamic equilibrium and applications to steady shear flows. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 458, 3053–
3077 (2002)
[9] Bauer, E., Herle, I.: Stationary states in hypoplasticity. In: Kolymbas, D. (ed.) Constitutive Modelling
of Granular Materials, pp. 167–192. Springer, Heidelberg (2006)
[10] Herle, I., Gudehus, G.: Determination of parameters of a hypoplastic constitutive model from
properties of grain assemblies. Mech. Cohesive-frictional Materials 4(5), 461–485 (1999)
[11] Hanes, D.M., Jenkins, J.T., Richman, M.W.: The thickness of steady plane shear flow of circular disks
driven by identical boundaries. J. Appl. Mech. 55, 969–980 (1988)
[12] Hui, K., Haff, P.K., Ungar, J.E.: Boundary conditions for high-shear grain flows. J. Fluid Mech. 145,
223–233 (1984)
[13] Hanes, D.M., Inman, D.: Observations of rapidly flowing granular-fluid materials. J. Fluid Mech. 150,
357–380 (1985)
[14] Savage, S.B.: Gravity flow of cohesionless granular materials in chutes and channels. J. Fluid Mech.
92, 53–96 (1979)
208 C. Fang
1 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-006-078-MY3 
計畫名稱 顆粒流暨土石流流變本構模型性能比較與應用研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
方中 
助理教授，國立成功大學土木工程學系 
會議時間地點 March 22.26. 2010，德國卡斯魯爾市 (Karlsruhe) 
會議名稱 2010 年德國數學與力學聯合年會(GAMM 2010) 
發表論文題目 Rheological characteristics of solid-fluid phase transition of a dry granular 
matter in a simple plane shear flow 
 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
出席『2010 年德國數學與力學聯合年會』報告 
 
德國數學與力學聯合年會 Gesellschaft fuer Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik (GAMM) 係
由德國兩位世界知名力學大師 Ludwig Prandtl (流體力學) 與 Richard von Mises (固體力學)於
1922 年創立，主要是作為德國與世界在數學、力學與物理學上交換研究最新知識與訊息的官
方機構，研討的範圍從純粹理論發展到工程應用均有很深的著墨。此協會是目前德國境內三
大最重要的科學與技術研究團體之一，會員人數已出過2500人。除了在德國境內享有盛名外，
此機構亦是歐洲非常重要的學術團體，與歐洲各國的科學院均有密切的合作。作為一個專業
的學會團體，GAMM 的重要性義在於它提供了東歐與俄羅斯研究熊者一個很方便的學術交流
平台。每年會議舉行期間，參與會議的東歐與俄羅斯科學家與學者幾乎占所有參加人數的三
分之一強。原則上 GAMM 的會議一年召開一次，今年已是第 89 屆了。本次會議會是由德國
數學與力學聯合學會與卡斯魯爾工業大學(Karlsruhe Institute of Technology)聯合主辦，於 2010
年 3 月 22 日至 3 月 26 日在德國與法國邊界的卡斯魯爾市召開，歷時一週。參與會議之專家
學者來自世界各地，以歐洲、美國、與東歐與俄羅斯學者為大宗。與會學者人數約達 450 人。 
 
本次會議的目的在增進歐洲與世界對於數學與力學學術研究之互相瞭解。藉與會代表報
告各人近期的研究成果，以促進歐洲與世界對於數學與力學相關領域之學術交流合作。研討
會首先於卡斯魯爾工業大學(Karlsruhe Institute of Technology)國際會議廳舉行開幕式，然後
依學術領域分組進行學術交流與參訪活動。本屆我國與會學者除本人外，成功大學上有張錫
宏博士後研究員參加。 
 
3 
 
多的顆粒物質運動知識。藉由此次會議，針對顆粒物質，讓不同學術領域的專家學者由各自
的背景出發進行討論，真是獲益良多，亦可觸發激盪出嶄新的想法。這對未來工程設計、減
少地質災害或許將有突破性之幫助。由於本次聚集的大都是國際知名之研究學者，經由會議
之結識與交換研究心得，對筆者往後之研究與合作，將有很大的助益。此次出國參觀訪問可
藉研討會瞭解各國最近對乾燥顆粒物質流變特性之相關研究方向。 
 
三、建議事項 
 
鑒於學術研究趨向複雜化，可鼓勵同仁進行跨領域的學術合作與討論，出席可以參加不同領
域之學術研討會開始，應可激盪出豐富之學術火花。 
 
 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：方中 計畫編號：96-2221-E-006-078-MY3 
計畫名稱：顆粒流暨土石流流變本構模型性能比較與應用研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 3 100%  
研討會論文 7 7 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 7 6 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 7 7 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
