可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97 年 7 月 15 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：天線的研究、設計與實現: (a) 極寬頻天線 (b) 經濟
的陣列群 
計畫主持人：李崇智 
計畫編號：97-2218-E-366-001-     學門領域：通訊 
技術/創作名稱 
(1)寬頻橢圓微帶八木陣列天線 
(2)使用隙縫耦合槽孔饋入線之印刷式雙橢圓偶極天線 
(3)八木陣列不使用功率分配器來增加陣列的設計 
發明人/創作人 李崇智 
技術說明 
中文： 
近年來無線通信市場迅速擴展，新產品相續推出，產品規格
(standands) 又不斷更新，小而輕巧效果又好的天線極為需求。驅使
研發出一系列極寬頻天線，可廣泛應用到各系统中，其相關配件以
及系統架構也需仔細設計。用戶端到另一用戶端(end-to-end user)
的訊雜比(S/N or Eb/No) 更需詳加研究，以求達到無 
線通訊最佳的效果。 
無線通訊系統按應用種類可分為：行動通訊(824MHz 到5.9GHz)，
資訊產業(2.4GHz 到5.875GHz or11GHz)，數位家電(174MHz 到
1.675GHz)，網通產業(2.4GHz 到5.9GHz 或11GHz)，和衛星通訊。
英文： 
With various new applications and upcoming standards, the rapid 
expansion of the wireless communication market requires antennas 
with a small size, light weight and enhanced performance. With the 
advent of micro stripe circuit and ultra wide band (UWB) technology, 
there is a need for new concepts and approaches in the design of 
antennas. With the developed antennas, the associated system 
configurations and end-to-end user signal in terms of S/N or Eb/No 
also need to be analyzed and studied to provide the best overall system 
performance. 
The wireless applications or system configurations can be divided into 
categories of: mobile communication (824 MHz to 5. 9 GHz) , 
information enterprise (2.4 GHz to 5.875 GHz or 11 GHz) , digital 
home electronics (174 MHz to 1.675 GHz) , network enterprise (2.4 
GHz to 5.9 GHz or 11 GHz) and satellite communication (L,S,C, and 
Ku-band). 
附件二 
 
  
 
Abstract—Printed-circuit board (PCB) antenna with useful 
bandwidth covering from 3.1 GHz to 10.6 GHz is suitable for 
wireless ultra wideband (UWB) application. Firstly, we present a 
low profile, elliptical antenna etched on PCB with dielectric 
constant 4.2 achieving the above specified bandwidth. Next, to 
reduce the size of the product, an elliptical dipole antenna with 
PCB dielectric constant 10.2 has been fabricated. Swept frequency 
return loss, impedance and radiation patterns of these antennas 
have been measured. Design criteria for this elliptical dipole 
antenna is also investigated. 
 
Keywords—Elliptical dipole antenna, printed-circuit antenna, 
printed circuit board (PCB), ultra wideband (UWB). 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
HE printed-circuit elliptical antenna has proven to be an  
efficient and effective radiator with broadband 
performance.  In its simplest configuration, a circular or 
elliptical antenna can be designed to produce a 
broad-beamwidth and broad-bandwidth with linear polarization 
and a radiation pattern having a broadside maximum. The most 
direct approach to provide a broad-beamwidth and broadband 
performance from such an antenna is to use a printed-circuit 
dipole with the upper and lower quarter wavelength radiation 
elements having a circular or elliptical shape. The antenna 
dipole could be fed with a 50 ohm micro-stripe line, extending 
into the dipole center (attached point of the two adjacent 
circular or elliptical radiators).  It was found that the current on 
the radiator at all frequencies is largely concentrated on the 
peripheral edge with very low current density approaching 
inwards towards the center. For elliptic (circular) dipoles, one 
can effectively picture that numerous semi-elliptic thin-line 
dipoles of varying lengths are effectively formed to excite 
multi-linear modes hence resulting in a very wide bandwidth 
with linear polarization. 
     Several methods have been proposed to study the impedance 
of elliptical printed-circuit antennas [1-3]. A printed crescent 
patch antenna [4] and a bottom fed elliptical antenna [5] were 
investigated experimentally to provide broadband performance 
 
This work is supported by the NSC under Grant 97-2218-E-366-001. 
 
              
(a) 
Fig.1. (a) Geometry of an elliptical printed-circuit dipole 
antenna (b) Elliptical dipole antennas etched on PCB with 
dielectric constant rε =4.2 (Right) and 10.2 (Left)    
 
 with linear polarization without added complexities inherent in 
the feed circuit. 
Broadband printed-circuit elliptical dipole antennas covering 
750 MHz-6.0 GHz for WLAN and WiMax applications has 
been fabricated and tested [6]. Recently, Powell [7] has shown 
that broadband linear polarization could also be achieved by 
two differential crescent patches fed at the dipole center of the 
two adjacent elliptic elements. They achieve a broadband 
performance covering the 3.1-10.6 GHz ultra wideband (UWB) 
spectrum with a swept frequency return loss of about 11dB.    
In this paper, experiments are carried out to investigate the 
design of two elliptical wideband antennas fabricated with PCB 
dielectric constants 4.2 and 10.2 covering the UWB frequency 
spectrum.  Swept frequency impedance and radiation patterns 
of these two elliptical antennas have been measured and 
investigated.    
II. EXPERIMENTAL IMPEDANCE MEASUREMENTS 
The geometry of a printed-circuit elliptical dipole antenna is 
presented in Fig. 1a.  A photograph of elliptical dipole antennas 
of the same design, fabricated with dielectric constant 4.2 and 
10.2 is shown in Fig. 1b.    In its simplest configuration, antenna 
Printed-Circuit Elliptical Dipole Antenna for   
3.1-10.6 GHz UWB Application 
*Chun-Chi Lee, *Hsin-Sheng Huang, **Rainfield Y. Yen, *Cheng-Da Yang, and **Shang-Chieh Nan  
 
* Department of Computer and Communication, Shu-Te University 
No. 59, Hengshan Rd., Yanchao, Kaohsiung County, 82445 Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
 
** Department of Electrical Engineering, Tamkang University 
No.151, Yingjhuan Rd., Danshuei Township, Taipei County 25137, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
 
E-mail: *homer1@mail.stu.edu.tw, **rainfieldy@yahoo.com 
T 
 
 
 
 
 
