 2
 
中文摘要 
 
本研究是完成一套「可控制接觸力之掃描探針顯微系統」。此系統主要元件包括：XYZ
移動平台、力致動器、線性可調式差分變壓器(Linear Variable Differential Transformer，LVDT)、
荷重計(Load Cell)、垂直鑽石探針頭、驅動電路、訊號擷取卡，及自行研發的系統操作程式
(Operating System Programming)。基本操作原理是先設定探針與待測物的接觸力(如 40 毫克)，
而後運用 XYZ 平台，進行平面掃描，配合荷重計，線性可變差分變壓器，類比⁄數位訊號擷
取卡，並利用 PID 控制器補償，將荷重計的訊號做回授與處理，再將誤差訊號，傳到力致動
器，做施力誤差補償。本期研究計畫擬將上述系統加以推廣，並採用線性速度感測器(Linear 
Velocity Transducer, LVT) ，感測垂直探針的上下移動速度作為迴授，以改善內迴路的阻尼及
反應速度。經過初步模擬發現效果不錯，的確有改善力致動器磁滯效應及反應速度的功能。 
    
關鍵詞: 線性速度感測器，線性差分變壓器，荷重計 
 
英文摘要 
 
This research upgraded the previous work of a contact force controlled scanning probe 
microscopy system design, the main part of this system are as: XYZ-stage, force actuator and 
driving circuit, Linear Variable Differential Transformer(LVDT), Linear Velocity Transducer(LVT), 
load cell, diamond probe, data acquisition board, and operating system programming. By using PID 
controller, the contact-force of the probe is feedback for monitoring the force actuator to meet the 
desired contact-force between the probe and the object as well as to minimize the hysteresis effect 
of the force actuator. Finally, the profile of the object surface is displayed on a 3D graph. The 
accuracy of the system is 1 µm. 
   This research used a Linear Velocity Transducer (LVT) to detect the vertical moving velocity of 
the stylus probe for the force actuator inner-loop damping and transient behavior control. This 
improvement has been verified by MATLAB simulation to reduce the hysteresis effect and the 
transient response of the force actuator. 
  The other effects that will degrade the performance of measurement accuracy are probe tip, 
Linear Variable Differential Transformer (LVDT), and load cell. In the previous work, the probe tip 
is with radius 2 μm and angle 60 degrees. The accuracy of LVDT is 1μm. The measurement 
resolution of load cell is 40 mg. To improve the system performance of the proposed surface 
profiler this project is going to purchase the probe tip with radius 100 nm and angle 10 degrees. The 
resolution of load cell is 5 mg, and the up-graded LVDT as well as the circuit layout artwork.   
  
Keywords: Linear Velocity Transducer (LVT), Linear Variable Differential Transformer         
(LVDT), Load Cell 
 
前言 
 
由於我國目前正大力推動兩兆雙星產業，所以要投入大量資金，購買設備與訓練高科技
人才。21 世紀高科技產品之開發趨勢，更是朝向超微小材料結構方向發展。此時亟需正確量
測與描述奈米材料物理性質之儀器，如半導體、光電、及硬碟製造技術，不斷推陳出新，有
一個共同的特徵：就是對加工物表面的平坦，或輪廓的要求越來越高。例如半導體晶圓在進
 4
 
 
圖 2 可控制接觸力之掃描探針顯微系統(a)架構連結方塊及(b)硬體圖 
 
 
 
圖 3  MATLAB 系統模擬方塊圖 
力致動器 荷重計 LVDT 
力致動器電路 荷重計電路 LVDT 電路 
PID 控制器電路 
主控電腦 
 6
 
圖 7 P = 0.5，I = 10 之力致動器(a)輸入三角波,(b)輸出三角波,及(c)磁滯效應曲線圖 
 
 
圖 8 P = 0.5，I = 20 之力致動器(a)輸入三角波,(b)輸出三角波,及(c)磁滯效應曲線圖 
 8
 
圖 11 內迴路補償器只有 P=1 之力致動器磁滯效應曲線圖 
 
 
圖 12 內迴路補償器只有 P=1, I=200 之力致動器磁滯效應曲線圖 
 
經過以上的模擬分析，我們確認此種研究構想的可行性之後，即可進行系統硬體的採
購，如線性速度感測器(LVT) ，與補償器電路設計製作，如下列圖 13 及 14。 
 
           
     圖 13   PI 控制的 P 參數控制與實際電路 
 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
Scanning Probe Microscope System Design with Linear Velocity 
Transducer for Feedback Compensation 
 
Abstract—This research is to use Linear Velocity 
Transducer (LVT) to detect the vertical velocity of the 
stylus probe for the inner-loop damping and transient 
control of a force actuator. This improvement has been 
verified by MATLAB simulation and practical 
implementation of a surface profiler to reduce the 
hysteresis effect of the force actuator. 
 
Keywords —LVT, LVDT, Load cell, Surface profiler. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM) has been 
developed rapidly in the last two decade [1]. Its usage is 
very extensive, for example, the measurements of 
physical distribution and material property such as 
surface profile, roughness, static charge, magnetic dipole, 
friction, elasticity, and thermal conductivity. As shown 
in Fig.1 of past research [2], a balance with stylus probe, 
force actuator, LVDT (Linear Variable Differential 
Transformer), load cell, personal computer, and XYZ- 
stages was integrated into a contact-force-controlled 
Scanning Probe Microscope (SPM) system, such that the 
surface of the sample would not be destroyed by the 
contact force produced by the stylus probe. This research 
is to use Linear Velocity Transducer (LVT) in Fig. 2 to 
detect the vertical velocity of the stylus probe for the 
inner-loop damping and transient control of the force 
actuator. 
 
 
Fig.1. The contact force-controlled SPM system. 
The stylus probe is shown in Fig.3, the voice coil was 
applied as a force actuator (Fig. 4a), which was 
integrated with LVT and LVDT (Fig. 4b) to measure the 
probe vertical displacement and velocity. The load cell in 
Fig. 5a was used to detect the contact force between the 
probe and sample to be tested. A leaf spring in Fig. 5b 
was applied to integrate the load cell with voice coil, 
LVT and LVDT module as shown in Figs. 5c and 5d. 
 
       
                     
            Fig. 2. The LVT.                      Fig. 3. The stylus probe. 
 
      
          Fig.4a. The voice coil.                   Fig. 4b. The LVDT. 
 
      
  
Fig. 5a.The load cell.                     Fig. 5b.The leaf spring. 
 
In addition to the XYZ-stages a piezo-stage in Fig. 6 
was also put on the Z-stage to improve the measurement 
accuracy. The personal computer was the central control 
unit for the whole operation, such as setting the contact 
force between the probe and the sample, taking the 
contact force information from the load cell, as well as 
driving the force actuator for the balance-arm initial 
leveling. Thus it is an automatic SPM system.This 
improvement has been verified by MATLAB simulation 
and practical implementation of a surface profiler to 
reduce the hysteresis effect of the force actuator. 
Jium-Ming LIN Jiea-Chie LIN 
School of Mechanical Engineering and Astronautics, School of Mechanical Engineering and Astronautics, 
Chung-Hua University Chung-Hua University 
Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, ROC Hsin-Chu, Taiwan, ROC 
e-mail:  jmlin@chu.edu.tw e-mail:   m09308037@chu.edu.tw 
Proceedings of 2007 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Nov. 9-11, 2007 
Fig. 9. The design with a PI compensator and a LVT respectively in the forward and feedback paths of force actuator. 
 
 
 
Fig. 10. A saw tooth shaped voltage (displacement command) is applied 
to the input of the compensated force actuator. 
 
 
  
Fig. 11. Output of LVDT shows the hysteresis effect still exists with P=1. 
 
 
 
Fig. 12. Hysteresis effect still exists with P=1. 
 
 
Fig. 13. Output of LVDT shows the hysteresis effect is almost disappeared 
with P=1 and I=200. 
 
 
 
Fig. 14. Hysteresis effect is almost disappeared with P=1 and I=200. 
 
III. TEST RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
The first step of test is initial levelling of the balance lever 
arm, which is achieved by adjusting the current through the 
coil of force actuator. Since the lever arm weight at the stylus 
probe (contact with the sample) side is heavier than the other 
side (contact with actuator) intentionally, thus the force 
actuator should push down to make the balance lever arm 
even. The contact point of the lever arm on the load cell is 
installed right at the calibrated-levelling height. This     
  
  
Scanning probe microscope system design with fuzzy control 
 
Po-Kuang Chang and Jium-Ming Lin   
 
 
 
Abstract—This research applied both the traditional PI (Proportion and Integration) compensator and the fuzzy control methods 
for a Scanning Probe Microscope (SPM) system design.  In addition, the actuator hysteresis effect was taken into consideration. It 
can be seen that the system performance obtained by the fuzzy controller was much better, especially in eliminating the actuator 
hysteresis effect. This improvement has been verified by MATLAB simulation and practical implementation of a surface profiler. 
 
Keywords—Scanning Probe Microscope, force actuator, hysteresis effect, fuzzy controller.  
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
he Scanning Probe Microscopy (SPM) has been developed 
rapidly in the last two decade [1-12]. Its usage is very 
extensive, for example, the measurements of physical 
distribution and material property such as surface profile, 
roughness, static charge, magnetic dipole, friction, elasticity, 
and thermal conductivity. As shown in Fig.1 of previous 
research [13], a balance with stylus probe, force actuator, 
LVDT (Linear Variable Differential Transformer), load cell, 
personal computer, and XYZ-stages was integrated into a 
contact-force-controlled Scanning Probe Microscope (SPM) 
system, such that the surface of the sample would not be 
destroyed by the contact force produced by the stylus probe. 
This research is to use Linear Velocity Transducer (LVT) in 
Fig. 2 to detect the vertical velocity of the stylus probe for the 
inner-loop damping and transient control of the force actuator.         
  The stylus probe is shown in Fig.3, the voice coil was applied 
as a force actuator (Fig.4), which was integrated with LVT and 
LVDT (Fig.5) to measure the probe vertical displacement and 
velocity. The load cell in Fig. 6 was used to detect the contact 
force between the probe and sample to be tested. A leaf spring 
in Fig.7 was applied to integrate the load cell with voice coil, 
LVT and LVDT module as shown in Figs. 8~9. In addition to 
the XYZ-stages a piezo-stage in Fig. 10 was also put on the 
Z-stage to improve the measurement accuracy. The personal 
computer was the central control unit for the whole operation, 
such as setting the contact force between the probe and the 
sample, taking the contact force information from the load cell, 
as well as driving the force actuator for the balance-arm initial 
leveling. Thus it is an automatic SPM system. 
 
Fig.1 the contact force-controlled SPM system. 
 
 
 
Fig.2 the LVT is to detect the vertical velocity of the stylus probe. 
 
   
 
T 
9th WSEAS International Conference on AUTOMATION and INFORMATION (ICAI'08), Bucharest, Romania, June 24-26, 2008
ISBN: 978-960-6766-77-0 548 ISSN 1790-5117
  
 
 
 
Fig.14 output voltage of load cell is increased for contact force 
changing from 0 mg to 40 mg. 
Fig.12 force actuator applied voltage versus displacement. 
 
 
 
Fig.13 the design with a PI compensator and a LVT respectively in the forward and feedback paths of force actuator. 
 
The next step is to load the sample on the holder which is 
fixed on the piezo-stage as well as XYZ-stages, and then setting 
the XY-stages (the resolution is 34 nm in either axis) to make 
the first sampled point just right under the tip of the stylus 
probe, then raising the piezo-stage upward until the sampled 
point touching with the probe. The value of the probe contact 
force on the sample can be obtained by the load cell. To avoid 
destroying the sample, the maximum contact force is limited to 
100 mg, i.e. if the contact force magnitude is smaller than 100 
mg, then moving the piezo-stage upward by one step (the 
resolution is 10 nm), otherwise, stop. By scanning the 
XY-stages in either x- or y-axis, then the surface profile of 
sample can be obtained from LVDT. After a little while of 
trial-and-error one has the result with P=1 and I=200, 
respectively, e.g. the output of LVDT with the backlash 
parameter D to be as 0.1 and 0.3 by using a triangular input are 
shown in Figs. 15 and 16, respectively. Finally, the simulation 
block diagram of the whole system is shown in Fig.13, in which 
the desired contact force between the probe and the sample is 
set as the input command to the system, and a load cell is used 
as the outer feedback loop sensor. 
III. FUZZY CONTROL SYSTEM DESIGN 
A. Fuzzy Controller Relationship Function Design 
In this section a Proportion and Derivative (PD) type fuzzy 
control design method is applied for the system design. It is 
well-known that the fuzzy controller is based on the 
9th WSEAS International Conference on AUTOMATION and INFORMATION (ICAI'08), Bucharest, Romania, June 24-26, 2008
ISBN: 978-960-6766-77-0 550 ISSN 1790-5117
  
It is a substrate of Ball Grid Array (BGA) package, by applying 
the proposed SPM system is shown in Fig. 20. For comparison 
purpose a commercial ET-4000 was also applied, the surface 
profile of which was shown in Fig. 21. Thus one can see that 
the performance of the proposed system was very good. 
 
 
Fig.17 the design with a Fuzzy controller. 
 
 
 
Fig. 18 output with fuzzy control for D=0.1. 
  
 
Fig. 19 output with fuzzy control for D=0.3. 
 
9th WSEAS International Conference on AUTOMATION and INFORMATION (ICAI'08), Bucharest, Romania, June 24-26, 2008
ISBN: 978-960-6766-77-0 552 ISSN 1790-5117
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            96 年 9 月 24 日 
報告人姓名  林君明 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
中華大學教授/研發長   
 
     會議 
     時間 
     地點 
96 年 9 月 15 日-96 年 9 月 19 日 
日本香川大學 
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 96-2221-E -216-029 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 國際儀表控制資訊技術 2007 年度研討會 
 (英文) SICE Annual Conference 2007 (International Conference on    
        Instrumentation, Control, and Information Technology)  
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)多重感測器整合之表面輪廓儀系統設計 
 (英文) Profiler Design with Multi-Sensor Data Fusion Methods 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
    這篇文章是由林君明教授，與中華大學機械與航太研究所碩士班研究生林俊杰所寫的，
目的是設計一個表面輪廓儀系統。主要的方法是運用機電及光電等互不相關的多重感測器，
將所獲得的機電與光電量測資訊，進行整合設計，以提升表面輪廓儀系統的精確度。由於這
個方法沒有人提出過，且有經過模擬及實作驗證，所以在經過審查修改之後，終於獲得接受，
並核定是口頭報告，這實在是ㄧ種榮幸。此次投稿文章總共約有 670 篇，被接受發表為 584
篇，參加投稿的有 15 個國家，由此可見此會議之規模，及受國際重視的程度。 
 
    同時國內被接受的有中正大學的羅仁權校長，台灣大學電機系的傅立成教授及連豐力助
理教授，交通大學電機與控制系的徐保羅教授，中央大學電機系的鐘鴻源教授，台科大電機
系的練福仁教授，聖約翰科技大學電機系的簡忠漢副教授，因此本會議由台灣來的學者專家
及碩博士學生就有 10 位左右，可說是ㄧ個很大的團體。 
 
    會議每天早上九點即開始進行，揭開一天的序幕。我對表面量測及系統控制有興趣，所
以就參加這方面的研討會場次，令人收穫頗多。會議期間每天都有一場演講，演講的題目分
別是 : Robotic Space Exploration Technology Development and Mission Infusion, Control and 
Life- From Homeostasis To Allostasis 及 The LHC at CERN: Technical Frontier Aspects of the 
World Largest Scientific Instrument. 這些內容是我以前比較沒有接觸過的，所以聽來是津津有
味。 
 
二、與會心得 
日本不愧是亞洲的首強，從此次參加會議，不僅現場聽到作者的報告，也收集了非常多
的好文章。以前只在圖書館或辦公室看論文，速度都非常慢，有些問題也沒有辦法現場就獲
得解決，所以效果就打了折扣。我的研究是在表面量測及系統控制等方面，大會每天都有安
附件三
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
As shown in Fig.1, this research integrated a balance 
with stylus probe [1-4], force actuator, LVDT (Linear 
Variable Differential Transformer), load cell, personal 
computer, and XYZ-stages into a contact-force- 
controlled Scanning Probe Microscope (SPM) system, 
such that the surface of the sample would not be 
destroyed by the contact force produced by the stylus 
probe.  
 
 
Fig. 1 The contact-force-controlled SPM system. 
 
The stylus probe is shown in Fig.2, the voice coil was 
applied as a force actuator (Fig. 3a), which was 
equipped with LVDT (Linear Variable Differential 
Transformer, Fig.3b) to measure the probe vertical 
displacement. The load cell in Fig. 4a was used to detect 
the contact force between the probe and sample to be 
tested. A leaf spring in Fig. 4b was applied to integrate 
the load cell with voice coil and LVDT module as 
shown in Fig 4c.  In addition to the XYZ-stages a 
piezo-stage in Fig. 5 was also put on the Z-stage to 
improve the measurement accuracy. The personal 
computer was the central control unit for the whole 
operation, such as setting the contact force between the 
probe and the sample, taking the contact force 
information from the load cell, as well as driving the 
force actuator for the balance-arm initial leveling. Thus 
it is an automatic SPM system. 
In order to raise the performance of the system, an 
optical system as well as a piezo-stage were also set up 
and applied, the optical system was accomplished by 
placing a reflective mirror at the upper middle point of 
balance lever arm, then a microscope as well as a CCD 
camera were used to detect the reflective beam 
displacement of a He-Ne laser. Thus one can apply the 
Kalman filtering technique [5-6] respectively to the 
measurements obtained by either electro-mechanical or 
optical system first, and then integrating these two 
results by multi-sensor data fusion method to raise the 
performance of the system. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 The stylus probe. 
 
Profiler Design with Multi-Sensor Data Fusion Methods  
Jium-Ming Lin 1 and  Jiea-Chie Lin 2  
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chung-Hua University, Taiwan 
(Tel : +886-3-518-6483; E-mail: jmlin@chu.edu.tw ) 
2 School of Mechanical Engineering and Astronautics, Chung-Hua University, Taiwan 
(Tel : +886-3-518-6484; E-mail:m09308037@chu.edu.tw) 
 
Abstract: This research integrated a balance with stylus probe, force actuator, LVDT (Linear Variable Differential 
Transformer), load cell, personal computer, and XYZ-stages into a contact force-controlled Scanning Probe Microscope 
(SPM) system, such that the surface of the sample would not be destroyed by the contact force produced by the stylus 
probe. By using PI controller, the contact-force of the probe was feedback for monitoring the force actuator to meet the 
desired contact-force between the probe and the object as well as to minimize the hysteresis effect of the force actuator. 
In order to raise the performance of the system, an optical system as well as a piezo-stage were also set up and applied, 
the optical system was accomplished by placing a reflective mirror at the upper middle point of balance lever arm, then 
a microscope as well as a CCD camera were used to detect the reflective beam displacement of a He-Ne laser. Thus one 
can apply the Kalman filtering technique respectively to the measurements obtained by either electro-mechanical or 
optical system first, and then integrating these two results by multi-sensor data fusion method to raise the performance 
of the system. 
 
Keywords: Scanning Probe Microscope (SPM), contact type, surface profiler. 
 
 
Fig. 7 The relationship of the applied voltage and the 
displacement of force actuator. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 The feedback system is used to reduce 
hysteresis effect of the actuator. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 9 A saw tooth shaped voltage (displacement 
command) is applied to the input of the actuator. 
 
If the gains of the compensator are set as P=10, D=0, 
and I=0, respectively, then the output of LVDT is 
shown in Fig. 10 by MATLAB simulation. One can see 
the hysteresis effect still exists as shown in Fig. 11 with 
output and input on the x and y axes, respectively.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10 The hysteresis effect still exists with P=10, 
D=0, and I=0. 
 
 
Fig. 11 The hysteresis effect still exists with P=10, 
D=0, and I=0. 
 
After a little while of trial-and-error one has a very 
good result with P=10, D=0, and I=100, respectively, 
e.g. the output of LVDT is shown in Fig. 12, and the 
hysteresis effect is almost disappeared as shown in Fig. 
13. Finally, the simulation block diagram of the whole 
system is shown in Fig. 14, in which the desired contact 
force between the probe and the sample is set as the 
input command to the system, and a load cell is used as 
the outer feedback loop sensor. 
 
 
Fig. 12 The output of LVDT with P=10, D=0, and 
I=100. 
 
 
Fig. 13 The hysteresis effect is almost disappeared 
with P=10, D=0, and I=100. 
 
3. DATA FUSION METHOD 
 
  In order to raise the performance of the system, an 
optical system is also set up to make another 
measurement as shown in Fig.1, which is accomplished 
by placing a reflective mirror at the upper central point 
of balance lever arm, then a microscope as well as a 
CCD camera are used to magnify and detect the 
deflection displacement of a He-Ne laser beam. The 
operation principle of which is shown in Fig.17. If there 
is any vertical displacement ( x∆ ) of the probe tip along 
the surface of the sample, which would cause a 
deflection angle (θ) of the balance lever arm (with 
half-length a), and the reflected angle of the laser beam 
would be deflected 2θ. Then there is a displacement (h) 
on the CCD camera sensor. Thus from Fig.19 one has 
the following relationships: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 17 The operation principle of the optical system. 
.  
 θ =
a
x∆  ,                                 (1) 
and 
 2θ =
L
d∆
,                                (2) 
where L is the length of microscope to the center of 
balance lever arm, and d∆  is the displacement of 
reflected beam at the microscope. In addition, one has 
d
h
∆
 = m,                                (3) 
where m is the magnification factor of the microscope. 
By (1) to (3) one has 
x∆ =
mL
ha
2
,                              (4) 
The third step is to apply the Kalman filtering 
technique [5-6] respectively to the measurements 
obtained by either electro-mechanical or optical system. 
The algorithm of Kalman filtering is briefed as follows: 
Let the surface profile of the sample be modeled by 
the random bias, thus its derivative is a random walk 
function, i.e. 
ω=x .                                  (5) 
In (5) x is the surface profile of the sample, and ω is a 
Gaussian white noise with standard deviationσω. In this 
research, the sample is a reflective mirror, the surface 
roughness of which is λ/4, whereλ is the wavelength 
of He-Ne laser, i.e. 
 
°°
=== A1582A)6328(
4
1
4
1 λσ ω .        (6) 
Thus the variance of the system noise is 
2
ωσ=W .                                (7) 
The measurement output z for the Kalman filter is 
taken from either electro-mechanical or optical system, 
i.e. 
vxΖ += ,                              (8) 
where v is the measurement noise. If the electro- 
mechanical system is applied, the accuracy of which 
depends on LVDT and the circuit routing condition, the 
standard deviation (σ1) of which is 125 nm, and the 
variance V of v is 
2
1σ=R .                                (9) 
On the other hand, if the optical system is applied, the 
accuracy of which depends on the pixel size of CCD 
camera, magnification factor of microscope and the 
length L in Fig. 18. Finally, the standard deviation of 
which is obtained as: 
 352 =σ  nm.                           (10) 
The discrete estimated state equation of the Kalman 
filter [6] is 
( ) ( )[ ]−−+−=+ kkkkk xzkxx ˆˆ)(ˆ ,         (11) 
where kxˆ  (+) and kxˆ  (-) are respectively the 
thk  
estimated state after and before taking the measurement 
kz into consideration, and the Kalman filter gain kk  is 
defined as[7] 
1)( −+= RPk kk ,                        (12) 
where 
( )[ ]{ }2ˆˆ)( kkk xxEP −+=+ ,               (13) 
which is obtained by the following Algebraic Riccati 
Equation (ARE): 
[ ] )()()()()( 1 −+−−−−=+ − kkkkk PRPPPP , (14) 
or 
111 )()( −−− +−=+ RPP kk ,                 (15) 
where 
( )[ ]{ }2ˆˆ)( kkk xxEP −−=− .              (16) 
The initial value of )(−kP  is defined by equation (7), 
i.e. 
WPo =−)( ,                           (17)       
and by (5) to (17), one has the filtered estimated result 
of electro-mechanical or optical system as 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            96 年 9 月 24 日 
報告人姓名  林君明 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
中華大學教授/研發長   
 
     會議 
     時間 
     地點 
96 年 9 月 15 日-96 年 9 月 19 日 
日本香川大學 
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 96-2221-E -216-029 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 國際儀表控制資訊技術 2007 年度研討會 
 (英文) SICE Annual Conference 2007 (International Conference on    
        Instrumentation, Control, and Information Technology)  
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)多重感測器整合之表面輪廓儀系統設計 
 (英文) Profiler Design with Multi-Sensor Data Fusion Methods 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
    這篇文章是由林君明教授，與中華大學機械與航太研究所碩士班研究生林俊杰所寫的，
目的是設計一個表面輪廓儀系統。主要的方法是運用機電及光電等互不相關的多重感測器，
將所獲得的機電與光電量測資訊，進行整合設計，以提升表面輪廓儀系統的精確度。由於這
個方法沒有人提出過，且有經過模擬及實作驗證，所以在經過審查修改之後，終於獲得接受，
並核定是口頭報告，這實在是ㄧ種榮幸。此次投稿文章總共約有 670 篇，被接受發表為 584
篇，參加投稿的有 15 個國家，由此可見此會議之規模，及受國際重視的程度。 
 
    同時國內被接受的有中正大學的羅仁權校長，台灣大學電機系的傅立成教授及連豐力助
理教授，交通大學電機與控制系的徐保羅教授，中央大學電機系的鐘鴻源教授，台科大電機
系的練福仁教授，聖約翰科技大學電機系的簡忠漢副教授，因此本會議由台灣來的學者專家
及碩博士學生就有 10 位左右，可說是ㄧ個很大的團體。 
 
    會議每天早上九點即開始進行，揭開一天的序幕。我對表面量測及系統控制有興趣，所
以就參加這方面的研討會場次，令人收穫頗多。會議期間每天都有一場演講，演講的題目分
別是 : Robotic Space Exploration Technology Development and Mission Infusion, Control and 
Life- From Homeostasis To Allostasis 及 The LHC at CERN: Technical Frontier Aspects of the 
World Largest Scientific Instrument. 這些內容是我以前比較沒有接觸過的，所以聽來是津津有
味。 
 
二、與會心得 
日本不愧是亞洲的首強，從此次參加會議，不僅現場聽到作者的報告，也收集了非常多
的好文章。以前只在圖書館或辦公室看論文，速度都非常慢，有些問題也沒有辦法現場就獲
得解決，所以效果就打了折扣。我的研究是在表面量測及系統控制等方面，大會每天都有安
附件三
 
