Introduction
Identifying and vertically dividing the transverse carpal ligament using a palmar 
incision is one of the most commonly performed operations for carpal tunnel 
syndrome when conservative treatment fails (Katz and Simmons, 2002). The 
possibility of a vertical scar with contracture and adhesion to the median nerve is 
considered an inherent complication of open carpal tunnel release (Urbaniak, 1991). 
Endoscopic carpal tunnel release (Agee et al., 1992; Chow, 1989; Okutsu et al., 1989), 
rapidly became a popular alternative to open carpal tunnel release (Chow and Hantes, 
2002; Ferdinand and MacLean, 2002; Katz and Simmons, 2002; Thoma et al., 2004; 
Trumble et al., 2002). Endoscopic carpal tunnel release and several other minimally 
invasive percutaneous methods (Lee and Jackson, 1996; Nakamichi and Tachibana, 
1998) were expected to produce less postoperative morbidity and shorten 
convalescence because of the limited skin incision and avoidance of dissection of 
superficial structures overlaying the transverse carpal ligament. Many investigations, 
including several prospective randomized studies comparing endoscopic and open 
carpal tunnel release (Agee et al., 1992; Muller et al., 2000; Thoma et al., 2004; 
Trumble et al., 2002), report that good clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction are 
achieved more quickly with endoscopic than with open carpal tunnel release. Yet, in 
addition to controversies about potential complications caused by blind insertion of 
Text
2005; Jou and Chern, 2006) and verified that the A1 pulley anatomy and its relation to 
the adjacent vital structures and underlying bony structures are consistent. We
conducted this study to test the hypothesis that sonography would [i] directly or 
indirectly depict the target structures in carpal tunnel release and [ii] clearly define the 
relations and critical distances between those structures (the safe zones), thus 
facilitating safer release of the transverse carpal ligament.
The purposes of this study were to [i] evaluate the precision of sonographic 
visualization of the transverse carpal ligament and adjacent structures and [ii] 
establish landmarks and safe zones for open or percutaneous release by a correlative 
comparison of sonographic findings and actual anatomical dissection.
We then located the median nerve, which is always immediately beneath the 
transverse carpal ligament at the longitudinal axis of the long finger. If this was 
difficult, we repeatedly bent the fingers to differentiate it from flexor tendons, 
because the median nerve is less mobile than the tendon when bending the finger. 
Using a transverse section at the axis of the hamate hook and scaphoid tubercle, 
we defined the distance between the median nerve and radial edge of the hamate 
hook as the transverse safe zone (Fig 1 right upper, center, and lower). Then, in a 
longitudinal section along the long finger axis, the median nerve was seen as a 
tubular structure with multiple hyperechoic parallel but discontinuous linear 
areas separated by hyperechoic bands. The closely related flexor tendons were
echogenic and showed a typical fibrillar echotexture, as previously reported 
(Beekman and Visser, 2004) (Fig 1 left lower). To ensure a standardized view of 
the working space for percutaneous or open release, we moved the transducer 
laterally to the transverse safe zone (Fig 1 left center and lower; right upper, 
center, and lower). In this section, the transverse carpal ligament and flexor 
tendons were well displayed, and the underlying bone boundaries extended from 
the level of the distal segment of the radius to the level of the distal metacarpals 
with the midcarpal joint centered at the mid-capitate, usually in line with the 
long-finger/ring-finger interval. The transverse carpal ligament was also clearly 
length of the transverse carpal ligament and its distance from the adjacent 
anatomic structures. We also measured the distance from the proximal edge of 
the transverse carpal ligament (point "d" in Fig 2 left upper and lower, and right 
lower) to the proximal needle (the mid-point of the longitudinal length of the 
lunate in sonography, point "b" in Fig 2 left upper and center) and from the distal 
edge of the transverse carpal ligament (point "c" in Fig 2 left upper and lower, 
and right lower) to the distal needle (the metacarpal shaft-base junction in 
sonography, point "a" in Fig 2 left upper and center). Other measurements 
included the length of the transverse carpal ligament, the distance between the 
distal edge of the transverse carpal ligament and the superficial palmar arch 
(longitudinal safe zone) (Fig 2 distance "e" in right upper and center), and the 
distance between the median nerve and radial edge of the hamate hook 
(transverse safe zone) (Fig 1 right upper, center and lower). The two safe zones
define the area, when dividing the transverse carpal ligament, for avoiding injury 
to the superficial palmar arch distally and ulnar neurovascular bundle medially, 
both of which are adjacent during the release of the transverse carpal ligament. 
On each cadaver's left hand, we did a sonographically assisted percutaneous 
carpal tunnel release procedure using the parameters from the right hands; then
we made parameter measurements of the 20 left hands as in the right hands. In 
RESULTS
Normal anatomy depicted using sonography
The longitudinal and transverse sections show that the transverse carpal ligament 
encloses the carpal tunnel anteriorly as a hyperechoic band separating the flexor 
tendons and the media nerve from the subcutaneous palmar aponeurosis and 
cutaneous layers (Fig 1 lower left and lower right). Like the data in previous reports 
(Beekman and Visser, 2003; Beekman and Visser, 2004; Duncan et al., 1999; Wong et 
al., 2004), our data show that sonography clearly delineates the flexor tendons and 
median nerve within the carpal tunnel. The tendon appears hyperechoic when 
compared to the peripheral tissue and the surrounding fat. The typical fibrillar echoic 
texture and the use of dynamic flexion-extension movement in conjunction with 
real-time sonography provide another characteristic feature (Fig 1 lower left). The 
median nerve has a fibrillar hyperechoic pattern and is located between the flexor 
pollicis longus and flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus, lying anterior to the 
latter (Fig 1 lower right). Posterior to the tendons, the bony structures cast typical 
acoustic shadows, and the bright echogenic borders of the carpometacarpal, midcarpal, 
and radiocarpal joints are clearly visible (Fig 1 lower left, and lower right).
In longitudinal and transverse sections, the transverse carpal ligament also 
appears obviously echogenic. The margins, particularly the proximal margin, however, 
transverse carpal ligaments were non-significant and within 2 mm in 40 hands, a 
difference thought to be almost negligible in clinical practice; therefore, the release 
extent could be determined using these two sonographic landmarks.
The ulnar neurovascular bundle is located medial to the ulnar margin of the 
transverse carpal ligament; accidental passage of surgical instruments into Guyon's 
canal has been a reported complication of endoscopic carpal tunnel release (Cobb et 
al., 1994). Therefore, the distance between the median nerve and Guyon’s canal is 
also crucial because the radial edge of the hamate hook is the lateral border of carpal 
tunnel as well as the medial border of Guyon’s canal. Open dissection showed that the 
distance between the median nerve and the radial edge of the hamate hook (the 
transverse safe zone) (Fig 1 right upper, center, and lower) was 5.0  0.4 mm (range, 
4 to 8 mm) (Table 2), which was not significantly different from the distance depicted 
using a sonographic examination (average, 4.9  0.3 mm; range, 3 to 7 mm). The 
distance between the distal edge of the transverse carpal ligament and the superficial 
palmar arch (the longitudinal safe zone) (Fig 2 distance "e" in right upper and center) 
is also crucial in avoiding accidental injury to the superficial palmar arch during 
release of the transverse carpal ligament. The average distance varied from 6 to 16 
mm with an average of 11.1  2.5 mm (Table 2). These are perceptible and safe 
distances for avoiding damage to the ulnar neurovascular bundle and superficial 
DISCUSSION
Many studies using cadaveric dissection to locate the deep anatomic structures of 
carpal tunnel and to correlate the relations of these vital structures to the surface 
topography or radiological images have facilitated the safer release of the transverse 
carpal ligament. In the present study, we verified that real-time, high-frequency 
sonography depicted all vital structures around the carpal tunnel. Dissection also 
showed that sonography clearly and accurately delineated the transverse carpal 
ligament and allowed us to determine appropriate surgical safe-zones. We therefore 
believe that using sonography both pre- and intraoperatively optimizes the 
probabilities of safety and success during the release procedures, particularly during 
minimally invasive or endoscopic carpal tunnel release.
Open release of transverse carpal ligament is a widely accepted method for 
treating carpal tunnel syndrome; endoscopic carpal tunnel release, a popular 
alternative surgical treatment, is equally effective (Agee et al., 1992; Chow, 1989; 
Chow and Hantes, 2002; Ferdinand and MacLean, 2002; Okutsu et al., 1989; Thoma 
et al., 2004; Trumble et al., 2002) and has the theoretical advantages of less 
invasiveness (Ahcan et al., 2002; Brown et al., 1993; Kluge et al., 1996; Martin et al., 
1996; Thoma et al., 2004). However, incomplete release is still the most common 
cause of failure for both techniques (Botte et al., 1996; Cobb et al., 1993; Concannon 
lunate consistently correlated with the actual transverse carpal ligament in cadavers.
Based on this study, the proximal and distal edges of the transverse carpal ligament 
can be defined using the strong sonographic bony landmarks in addition to the 
conventional skin landmarks. Developing a sonographic landmark to more 
consistently identify the location of the transverse carpal ligament may increase the 
accuracy and reliability of carpal tunnel syndrome release.
When releasing the transverse carpal ligament to treat carpal tunnel syndrome, it 
is essential to avoid accidental injury to neurovascular structures, but the evolution 
from open to endoscopic carpal tunnel release seems to have increased this risk. When 
doing an endoscopic carpal tunnel release, introducing the trocar and sheath assembly 
into the carpal tunnel is essentially a blinkered procedure: the clinician can see ahead 
only, making it difficult to visualize the median nerve (Seiler et al., 1992),
differentiate between synovium and nerve tissue (Concannon et al., 2000), and 
recognize pathological features of neighboring structures (Muller et al., 2000). In 
addition, the ulnar neurovascular bundle, which can lay close to the line of release, 
cannot be seen endoscopically; therefore, the ulnar artery may be at greater risk 
during endoscopic carpal tunnel release than previously recognized (Cobb et al., 1994; 
Varitimidis et al., 1999). While the risk of permanent median nerve injury does not 
significantly differ between open and endoscopic carpal tunnel release, the latter is 
cadaver wrists demonstrated that high-resolution sonography can clearly locate the 
transverse carpal ligament and vital neurovascular bundles. It also defined safe-zones
for avoiding iatrogenic injuries when doing carpal tunnel release using either open or 
minimally invasive techniques.
with special consideration to possible complications. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol 
Arthrosc. 2000;8:166-72.
11. Beekman R, Visser LH. High-resolution sonography of the peripheral nervous system --
a review of the literature. Eur J Neurol. 2004;11:305-14.
12. Beekman R, Visser LH. Sonography in the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome: a 
critical review of the literature. Muscle Nerve. 2003;27:26-33.
13. Wong SM, Griffith JF, Hui AC, Lo SK, Fu M, Wong KS. Carpal tunnel syndrome: 
diagnostic usefulness of sonography. Radiology. 2004;232:93-9. Epub 2004 May 20.
14. Duncan I, Sullivan P, Lomas F. Sonography in the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome. 
AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1999;173:681-4.
15. Chern TC, Jou IM, Yen SH, Lai KA, Shao CJ. Cadaveric study of sonographically 
assisted percutaneous release of the A1 pulley. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2005;115:811-22.
16. Jou IM, Chern TC. Sonographically assisted percutaneous release of the A1 pulley: a 
new surgical technique for treating trigger digit. J Hand Surg Br. 2006;31:191-9.
17. Seiler JG 3rd, Barnes K, Gelberman RH, Chalidapong P. Endoscopic carpal tunnel 
release: an anatomic study of the two-incision method in human cadavers. J Hand Surg 
Am. 1992;17:996-1002.
18. Lee DH, Masear VR, Meyer RD, Stevens DM, Colgin S. Endoscopic carpal tunnel 
release: a cadaveric study. J Hand Surg Am. 1992;17:1003-8.
19. Cobb TK, Carmichael SW, Cooney WP. The ulnar neurovascular bundle at the wrist. A 
technical note on endoscopic carpal tunnel release. J Hand Surg Br. 1994;19:24-6.
20. Van Heest A, Waters P, Simmons B, Schwartz JT. A cadaveric study of the single-portal 
endoscopic carpal tunnel release. J Hand Surg Am. 1995;20:363-6.
21. Concannon MJ, Brownfield ML, Puckett CL. The incidence of recurrence after 
endoscopic carpal tunnel release. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2000;105:1662-5.
33. De Smet L, Fabry G. Transection of the motor branch of the ulnar nerve as a 
complication of two-portal endoscopic carpal tunnel release: a case report. J Hand Surg 
Am. 1995;20:18-9.
34. DaSilva MF, Moore DC, Weiss AP, Akelman E, Sikirica M. Anatomy of the palmar 
cutaneous branch of the median nerve: clinical significance. J Hand Surg Am. 
1996;21:639-43.
35. Varitimidis SE, Herndon JH, Sotereanos DG. Failed endoscopic carpal tunnel release. 
Operative findings and results of open revision surgery. J Hand Surg Br. 1999;24:465-7.
36. Rowland EB, Kleinert JM. Endoscopic carpal-tunnel release in cadavera. An 
investigation of the results of twelve surgeons with this training model. J Bone Joint 
Surg Am. 1994;76:266-8.
37. Rotman MB, Manske PR. Anatomic relationships of an endoscopic carpal tunnel device 
to surrounding structures. J Hand Surg Am. 1993;18:442-50.
38. Cobb TK, Dalley BK, Posteraro RH, Lewis RC. Anatomy of the flexor retinaculum. J 
Hand Surg Am. 1993;18:91-9.
39. Nakamichi K, Tachibana S. Distance between the median nerve and ulnar neurovascular 
bundle: clinical significance with ultrasonographically assisted carpal tunnel release. J 
Hand Surg Am. 1998;23:870-4.
40. Lee H, Jackson TA. Carpal tunnel release through a limited skin incision under direct 
visualization using a new instrument, the carposcope. Plast Reconstr Surg. 
1996;98(2):313-9; discussion 320.
TABLE II—Measurements of transverse and longitudinal safe-zones
Transverse* (1) Longitudinal† (2) P-value
Wrist Mean  SEM (mm) Range Mean  SEM (mm) Range Left vs. Right
Left 5.0  0.4 4-8 11.8  2.9 6-16 NS
Right 5.0  0.4 4-8 10.5  1.9 7-13 NS
SEM: standard error of the mean; NS: not statistically significant; *Transverse: actual distance between the median nerve to ulnar neurovascular 
bundle; †Longitudinal: distal edge of the transverse carpal ligament and the superficial palmar arch.
Figure(2)
Click here to download high resolution image
