progress of polymerization. Then, gel mixture solution con-
taining immunoadsorbent was added on top of a relatively
exclusive supporting gel layer. After sedimentation was com-
plete, a careful surface dilution step using neutral phosphate
buffer was carried out to create a concentration gradient within
the settled immunoadsorbent. Subsequently, the reaction tem-
perature was shifted to 37°C to form a relatively inclusive
stacking gel layer. Finally, unpolymerized immunoadsorbent
was washed away with neutral phosphate buffer.
By contrast, in the present proposed procedure, we attempt
to first perform the copolymerization of acrylamide monomer
with supports to form an activated stationary phase by a par-
tially incomplete two-stage polymerization method; then, this
activated stationary phase is used as the matrix, instead of the
previously used slurry support, for the subsequent ligand cou-
pling procedure. Thus, ligands could predominantly be co-
valently bound to the exterior surface of the stationary phase.
A schematic diagram that illustrates the present experimental
procedure is shown in Figure 1. In addition, pore size of
polyacrylamide gels is greatly influenced by total acrylamide
concentration (%T) in the polymerization mixture, effective
pore size decreasing as acrylamide concentration increases.
Polyacrylamide gels will form at over 30% acrylamide, at
which concentration polypeptides with a molecular mass as
low as 2000 Da experience considerable molecular sieving;
whereas, at the other extreme, gels with concentration of
acrylamide 5% have molecular sieving effect for molecules
above a molecular mass of 105 Da.14,15 Therefore, with an
appropriate choice of %T for the supporting and stacking gel
layers, a pore size discontinuity having the optimal size exclu-
sion effect within an immunoadsorption wall could be theo-
retically established. In this study, a 7.5% T stacking gel and a
15%T supporting gel were tentatively adopted for manufactur-
ing the present immunoadsorption walls. Such a combination
could provide diffusion space for -2M molecules (MW 
11,800) while restricting the passage of larger solutes with
molecular mass more than 15 kDa, thereby avoiding the loss of
some essential components such as albumin (MW  69,000).
Materials and Methods
Materials
Acrylamide-bisacrylamide (30%T, 2.7%C) solution (Sigma,
St. Louis, MO) was prepared by dissolving 29 g of acrylamide
and 1.0 g of bisacrylamide to make up 100 mL with distilled
water. The polymerization reaction of acrylamide was initiated
by ammonium persulfate (10%, wt/vol) (Sigma) and acceler-
ated in the presence of N,N,N,N-tetramethylethylenedia-
mine (TEMED) (Bio-Rad, Hercules, CA). CNBr-activated
Sepharose 4B was purchased from Amersham-Biosciences.
Rabbit anti–-2M antibodies (Dako, Glostrup, Denmark) was
immobilized on CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B according to
the standard protocol. The immunoadsorption walls prepared
by the partially incomplete two-stage polymerization method
were stored at 4°C in 0.15 mol/L NaCl-10 mmol/L sodium
phosphate buffer (PBS) (pH 7.4) (Sigma) containing 0.02%
NaN3 (Merck, Whitehouse Station, NJ). Human -2M solution
was fractionated from urine of patients under hemodialysis by
salting-out with ammonium sulfate, as previously reported.16
Once made, it was kept at –20°C in concentrated PBS (pH 7.4)
stock of c. 250 g/mL to avoid instability.17 For calibration,
-2M concentration of the stock is checked periodically to-
gether with samples of immunoadsorption tests, using a stan-
dard curve. -2M solutions with specified concentration levels
for the present experimental studies were diluted from the
stock early on the day of immunoadsorption tests. The deter-
mination of -2M levels was made by enzyme immunoassay
kit (BioCheck, Foster City, CA).
Formation of Two Types of Immunoadsorption Walls Via
Pre-Ligand and Post-Ligand Coupling Procedure
Two types of immunoadsorption walls were simultaneously
manufactured under the same experimental condition by the
previously published precoupling procedure and the present
postcoupling procedure. Briefly, 3 mL of coupling buffer
(NaHCO3, pH  8.3) containing 10.5 mg of ligands was
Figure 1. Schematic representation of a postcoupling procedure
for formation of a immunoadsorption wall. (I) Activation of Sepha-
rose with CNBr. (II) Sedimentation of CNBr-activated Sepharose at
0°C by ice-water bath. (III) Immobilization of CNBr-activated Sepha-
rose by a partially incomplete two-stage polymerization method. (IV)
Addition of the coupling solution containing ligand onto top of the
stationary phase. (V) Coupling at ligand at the surface of the sta-
tionary phase.
202 YANG AND FENG
Maximum Surface Binding Capacity
Figure 4 reveals the removal process of -2M by the two
types of immunoadsorption walls under saturation conditions
for three adsorption-desorption cycles. Similar removal pat-
terns were observed. The levels of -2M decrease from 185.8
g/mL to 11.37 g/mL for precoupling procedure and from
186.6 g/mL to 9.92 g/mL for postcoupling procedure, on the
average.
From the results of simulation (Figure 5), it could be found
that the maximum binding capacity is 105.7 g/cm2 for the
type I and 105.9 g/cm2 for type II immunoadsorption walls,
respectively.
Efficacy of Multiple Uses
The binding activity of the prepared immunoadsorption
walls was well maintained for the 10 times of adsorption and
desorption cycles, being above 90% of the original maximum
binding activity.
Discussion
The partially incomplete two-stage polymerization method
may represent a useful method for manufacturing a small-scale
immunoadsorption wall based on polyacrylamide. However, it
is apparent that the whole cumbersome synthetic steps as well
as the inefficient utilization of immunoadsorbent in the copo-
lymerization could greatly impede the development of a clin-
ically applicable immunoadsorption wall. Consequently, there
is an urgent need for modification of the original approach;
and we intend to propose a new ligand coupling procedure for
this copolymerization method. In our previous studies, anti-
bodies were first covalently bound to the slurry support Sepha-
rose 4B, using the conventional ligand coupling procedure.
Then, the prepared immunoadsorbent was copolymerized
with acrylamide to produce immunoadsorption walls by the
partially incomplete two stage polymerization method, that is,
a precoupling procedure. In contrast, the present study at-
tempts to simplify the manufacturing process by altering the
sequence of the ligand coupling procedure. Specifically, in-
stead of coupling the ligands onto the slurry microbeads, the
ligand coupling reaction is performed in a heterogeneous sys-
tem composed of an activated semisolid phase and coupling
buffer containing ligands, that is, a postcoupling procedure.
Obviously, such changes could lead to at least the following
three advantages. First, from the handling point of view, it is
much more convenient and time-saving to separate the aque-
ous reactant from the semisolid phase than the slurry mi-
crobeads, especially when mass production of large scale
immunoadsorption walls is required. Second, after formation
of an immunoadsorption wall, the recovery and reprocessing
of the unreacted ligands are much more favorable for the
postcoupling procedure than for the precoupling procedure
and thereby enhancing the utilization efficiency of ligand and
minimizing the manufacturing cost. Third, in terms of scale-up
or other possible geometric modification, for example, a
“tubular” type, the postligand coupling procedure seems to
be more versatile than the precoupling procedure because it
is readily adaptable to a variety of coupling situations.
Because of the sequence of the ligand coupling procedure
and the molecular sieving effect, it is presumably assumed that
ligands would be predominantly allocated on the exterior
surface for type II immunoadsorption wall, whereas immuno-
adsorbent would be almost completely entrapped within the
stacking gel layer of the type I. Therefore, if immunoadsorption
due to the diffusion control process is insignificant in practice,
the utilization of ligand must be higher for type II than for type
I. Likewise, it is worthy of further attempts that we could first
perform copolymerization of acrylamide with inactivated sup-
port Sepharose, then activate the surface with CNBr, and
finally carry out the ligand coupling procedure to manufacture
immunoadsorption walls in large quantities.
In hemodialyzed patients, serum -2M levels may be ele-
vated to 92 g/mL that is a 60-fold increase over normal values
(0.8 to 2.4 g/mL), and its average values vary with different
classified groups.17,18 Therefore, a prerequisite requirement for
a potential usefulness of an immunoadsorption wall is the
capacity to effectively remove toxins such as -2M over a wide
range of initial levels for a relatively short period of time. From
the tests of removal of -2M under different initial conditions,
it was shown that the prepared immunoadsorption walls could
rapidly bring the levels into normal range as long as saturation
is not achieved for the present experimental settings. As a
corollary, therefore, it can be speculated that the immunoad-
sorption process could be completed within the standard du-
Figure 4. Time course change of -2-microglobulin level during
the period of immunoadsorption by the two types of immunoad-
sorption walls. Data were expressed as mean  SD (n  3)
Figure 5. Curve fitting of the removal process of the two types of
immunoadsorption walls by a sigmoidal equation.
204 YANG AND FENG
