1 
 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
挖掘 SMT連續製程品質缺陷樣型與自我學習式製程診斷系統之發展(I) 
Mining failure patterns and the development of a self-learning diagnosis 
system for the consecutive surface mount assembly process 
 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-366-005 
執行期限：98 年 08 月 01 日  至  99 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：蔡聰男 樹德科技大學運籌管理系 
計畫參與人員：姚威良、林珍猷、陳俊凱 樹德科技大學 經營管理研究所 
王儀仁 樹德科技大學 運籌管理系 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
電子組裝之表面黏著(Surface mount technology, SMT)製程所產生的焊接缺陷，皆可
造成諸多生產力與產品品質損失。SMT 之錫膏印刷(paste stencil printing)、零件黏貼
(Component placement)、及迴焊作業(Solder reflow)等三個子製程參數或其組合參數設定
之不當，可造就無數焊接缺點與增加額外重工與焊點修護工作。然而學界與業界鮮少討
論或研究 SMT 連續製程與焊接良率間之前因後果關係。本研究中基於 SMT 生產線機率
網路概念以建立 SMT 製程失誤鏈，並探查機器參數與最終焊性品質間關聯性。再者，
結合複合式群組演算法與決策樹建立一套焊接品質鑑別系統，用以改善 SMT 組裝之焊
接品質。其中先運用非監督式自組織映射類神經網路(Self-organizing map, SOM)導出適
當群組數與群組中心，再將結果餵入 K-means 分群程序以找出最佳分群結果。最終再運
用用監督式決策樹演算法(See5)誘導出決策樹與關連規則，以輕易地解釋缺陷樣型
(Pattern)與建構一套焊性品質鑑別系統。本研究採用經實務收集之統計製程品管資料
(Statistical process control，SPC)作為分析、建模、與測試。本系統經由實務評估，展現
不錯製成參數設定區別與焊性品質鑑別力並解決一個實務製程問題。 
 
關鍵詞：表面黏著技術、焊接品質、資料探勘、SOM、決策樹 
 
3 
 
The soldering defects can be derived from one of the SMA process steps or in 
combinations. A failure distribution chart is usually established in tracing the sources of 
soldering defects, as illustrated in Fig. 2. Summarily, stencil printing accounts for 53% of 
soldering defects, while roughly 17% of the process fault is originated from component 
placement. The rest of failure source (30%) is inherent from the improper solder reflowing 
operation and raw materials. The map clearly depicts where the failures come from stencil 
printing application or component placement or solder reflow, such as an unstable initial 
stencil printing parameter setting or shifting component placement or an improper thermal 
profile setting. In practice, a time-consuming trial-and-error approach is usually employed by 
engineers to tune the process parameters for controlling the soldering quality before the mass 
production can launch. However, the grounds are generally absent to identify the soldering 
defect source(s), how the defects derived from individual process step or in combinations, are 
seldom addressed and discussed by practitioners and researchers.  
Stencil 
printing
Board in
AOI system
Component 
placement #1
Component 
placement #2
Reflow 
soldering
Board out
Optional
High-speed
chip placer
Multi-purpose
chip placer
 
Fig. 1 The main process steps of surface mount assembly 
The modern 3C electronic products have been increasingly smaller in size, higher density, 
and more reliable. Under the defect-free goal, the field practitioners and researchers devoted 
to develop new manufacturing technology and production systems to cut the manufacturing 
costs and improve the soldering quality. During the past decade, most studies on the area of 
SMA highly emphasized single process step instead of simultaneously considering the overall 
SMT assembly process.  
 
5 
 
SOM is an unsupervised neural network-based clustering method that can visibly 
organize multi-dimensional data into a lower-dimensional output space for graphical 
representations and explore properties of the data (Kohonen, 2001, Fuertes et al. 2010). The 
SOM network is a fully connected two-layer network which has one input layer and one 
output layer. The degree of similarity between the instances determines the location of a 
particular data on a 2D or 3D map (called the topological map). The interested readers are 
referred to the detailed algorithm of the SOM (Kohonen, 2001). The data training steps of 
SOM are briefly summarized as follows. The steps are repeated for all inputs to complete one 
cycle (iteration): 
Step 1: Initialize each neuron weight vector, wi=[wi1, wi2, ...wij]T  
Step 2: Measure the similarity (Euclidian distance). The neuron weight vector is 
closest to the input vector, x, is called best matching unit (BMU).  
),min( ic mxmx              (1) 
where x stands for the input vector; m is the weight vector; and ‖·‖is the Euclidean distance 
measure. 
Step 3: After finding the BMU, the weight vectors are updated and the BMU is 
relocated closer to the input vector, x. The SOM update rule for the unit’s 
weight vector is illustrated in Eq. (2). 
)],()()()()()1( tmtxthttmtm tciii            (2) 
where m(t) is the weight vector indicates the location of output unit in the data space at 
time t; α(t) is the learning rate at time t; hci(t) is defined as a neighborhood kernel function 
around the BMU and the winning unit c; and x(t) is the input vector generated from the input 
data at time t. Different neighborhood kernel functions can be used, such as block function, 
triangular function, and Gaussian function. The Gaussian function is chosen in this research. 
To evaluate goodness of SOM, several measures have been proposed. Two widely used 
measures, the quantization error (eq) (Kohonen, 2001) and topographic error (et) (Kiviluoto, 
1996). The quantization error computes the average distance between the data vectors and 
their BMUs in which the overall fitting of SOM to the data is evaluated. The topographic 
error describes the proportion of the input vectors for which the first and the second best 
BMUs are not adjacent vectors. 
  rxNe iq
1
              (3) 
where N represents the number of original data vectors, and rβ is the BMU of the data vector 
xi. 
7 
 
from the failure chain are shown in Table 1. For example, the effect of using a set of stencil 
printing parameters could significantly affects soldering quality, and partially influences 
placement accuracy when the incomplete paste print or no-wetting failures occur. The goal of 
this research is to deduce the soldering defect profiles (patterns) from the various machine 
parameters based on measurements gathered from the three SMT process steps. On the basis 
of the defect patterns, we can predict the overall soldering quality level. 
 In this work, the SPC data set is extracted and analyzed with a two-stage clustering 
procedure and decision tree to classify the soldering defect patterns. The development flow of 
the proposed methodology is illustrated Fig. 4. To have condense and reliable SPC data, the 
data preprocessing process is conducted in terms of principal component analysis and data 
transformation. A two-stage clustering algorithm in which a self-organizing map model 
enables data visualization, while K-means clustering method can find the more precise 
clusters using the predefined cluster number and centroids derived by SOM model. The 
clusters represent different soldering defect profiles (patterns). The association rules are 
generated by the use of decision tree algorithm (See5) (Quinlan, 1997)to profile each defect 
pattern and formulate the soldering defect detection system. The clustering procedure carries 
out groups of similar items in term of defect profiling, while the decision tree finds 
understandable links between these clusters and offer interpretations.  
Component
placement
Stencil 
printing
parameters
Solder 
reflow
parameters
Placement 
accuracy
Soldering 
quality
(Solderability)
 
Fig. 3 Probabilistic network of the surface mount assembly line 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
Quantization
& Projection
SPC 
data
Data 
Preprocessing
SOM
Primal
clusters
K-means 
Clusters
Defect 
profiling 
module
Decision 
tree (C5)
Association 
rules
Defect 
classification 
module
PCA Datatransformation
• No. of cluster
• Centroids
Visualization
Soldering
quality
W/S
D
ata
P
reprocessing
U
n
sup
ervised
 L
earning
S
upervised learnin
g
&
m
od
ularization
Performance
evaluations
W/S
Stencil printer AOI High-speed 
chip placer
Multi-purpose
chip placer
Reflow oven
FUJI
MPM
 
Fig. 4 The development flow of soldering defect detection system 
三、結果與討論 
The SPC data are collected from a famous American electronics manufacturer, an 
electronics assembly plant located in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. This company designs and 
fabricates many types of electronics transaction and payment products, e.g., credit card reader, 
smart card readers, check imaging device, and payment security applications. Each row of the 
SPC data for all three process steps is indexed with the barcoded part number attached on the 
PCBs. The MPM UP-2000 and UP-3000 stencil printers (provides±0.001"(±25microns), Fuji 
SP-IV, GSP-II, QP-II chip placers, and KOKI-250 and KOKI-350 reflow ovens equipped with 
four heaters were installed at the plant of the subject company. This plant totally has 12 SMT 
assembly lines.  
The paste deposit volume was measured using an AVI system (HIROX system), whereas 
11 
 
number of interrelated variables, while retaining as much as possible of the variation present 
in the data set. The PCA is employed to derive a limited number of features and moderate 
computational burdens. The factor selection is based on the Eigen value which is larger than 1. 
The redundant features were removed after PCA analysis. PCA reduced input features from 
31 to 15 features (original feature matrix from a size of 1118×31 to 1118×15). The cumulative 
explanation variance is 84.98% against losing about 15.02% of variance. The principal 
component factors were marked with an asterisk in Table 2. 
Clustering analysis 
The SOM Toolbox 2.0 (Heisinki University of Technology, Laboratory of Computer and 
Information Science) used in Matlab platform, was adopted to cluster and analyze the SPC 
data set. A SOM network of 168 neurons in the form of a 14×12 rectangle was designed for 
the output layer. The default training parameters of SOM Toolbox is set to perform clustering 
under a range of clusters from 2 to 8. The quantization error and topographic error were 
calculated for each cluster size to determine the optimal size of cluster. After training, the 
optimal cluster size is set at 5. For the SOM network with 5 clusters, the two errors were 
reduced from 3.38 to 0.309 and from 0.992 to 0.0039, respectively. The topology map is 
illustrated in Fig. 7. The U-matrix and the topology amps for partial factors are illustrated in 
Fig. 5. This chart is useful to interpret the relationship of soldering quality and machine 
parameters. For example, the solder short (bridge) can be originated from the combination of 
parameter settings, such as the viscosity of solder paste is set at the low value, snap-off 
distance is set too high, the squeegee pressure is too high, and the fair accuracy of component 
placement. 
 The results of SOM (i.e. number of clusters and center centroids) then plugged into 
K-means clustering process. The further clustering result with PCA(1) and PCA(2) is depicted 
graphically in Fig. 6. The instances scattered in different clusters, as illustrate in Table 3. Each 
cluster distribute into five categories of soldering quality level (i.e. High, Good, Fair, Low, No 
good solderability). Apparently, clusters 1, 2, and 5, indicate the machine parameters are 
suitable to have better soldering quality, except few of incidents. Cluster 3 explains that the 
machine parameters are not appropriate to produce good soldering quality. Cluster 4 indicates 
that this group may build the product with disturbances, some are good and some are bad 
quality. We further map and label the instances onto SOM topologies, as illustrated in Fig. 7. 
Decision tree and qualification system 
The performance of a classifier can be evaluated via the classification error rate. A test set 
and a validation set of data can be further considered to accurately assess the performance of a 
classifier and optimize the classifier parameters, respectively. The k-fold cross-validation and 
the bootstrap are useful to predict the error rate on a new test set (Johnson, 2001). Generally, a 
13 
 
 
Fig. 6 3D scatter chart based on PCA(1), PCA(2), and cluster 
Table 3 Cluster results for hybrid of SOM and K-means 
Cluster Records HIgh GOod FAir LOw No Good 
1 663 642 10 1 0 10 
2 248 225 16 0 0 7 
3 64 0 21 8 2 33 
4 36 0 26 10 0 0 
5 106 103 1 0 0 2 
 
Labels





SOM map
 
Fig. 7 Topology map 
 A soldering quality qualification system is established through the rule sets and decision 
tree. The system gives a soldering quality level and its possibility according to the inputs of 
15 
 
 
Fig. 9 Predictor of soldering score 
四、計畫成果與自評 
SMA has become the most important means in the electronic assembly industry. The 
soldering defects can be derived from one of the SMA process steps or in combinations. 
Currently, the few of the studies on the hybrid SMT process makes it difficult to uncover the 
cause-and-effect relationship of the process steps and yield. The traditional methods used in 
SMT process improvement usually involve intricacies and mathematical complications that 
make it difficult for process practitioners to have prerequisite knowledge to interpret and 
implement. Furthermore, most researches in the literature do not simultaneously consider the 
significant parameters across three major process segments, although a proportional 
improvement is considered significant.  
In this work, a hybrid clustering algorithm to identify different soldering defect profiles 
(patterns) that is inherent from inappropriate machine parameter settings. The decision tree 
algorithm is used to interpret each defect pattern and formulate the soldering defect detection 
system. The performance of this proposed system was evaluated through a real production 
data which indicates the prediction accuracy is 90.7%. The above research results have been 
submitted to: Computers and Industrial Engineering. (EI/SCI). (In review) 
 
五、參考文獻 
Clark, P. & Boswell, R. (1991). Rule Induction with CN2: some recent improvements, in 
Kodratoff, Y. (Ed.): Machine Learning - Proceedings of the Fifth European Conference 
(EWSL-91), Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 151-163. 
Freund, Y. & Schapire, R. E. (1997). A decision-theoretic generalization of on-line learning 
and an application to boosting, Journal of Computer and System Sciences, 55(1), 119-139. 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
本研究論文以投稿至 Computers and Industrial Engineering，目前審稿中。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本研究成果可以協助本國電子組裝業者從事整體表面黏著製程之焊接缺點與焊接品質辨
識，尤其在大量生產前可幫助工程師確認是當機器參數，機器參數可含括：錫膏印刷、零
件黏貼精準度、迴焊作業等參數組合對於最終焊接品質之整體影響。可藉由焊接品質辨識
系統訓練新進人員或建立於企業知識管理系統中，可以減少每班作業之製程診斷時間與改
善和姓品質。 
