 
本產學合作計畫研發成果及績效達成情形自評表  
成果項目 本產學合作計畫預估研究成果及績效指標 （作為本計畫後續管考之參據） 計畫達成情形 
技術移轉 預計技轉授權  1 項  完成技轉授權  0 項 
國內 預估 1 件 
提出申請 1 件，獲得 0 件
中華民國發明專利申請：具蝕
刻通道的磊晶結構及其製造
方法，申請案號：99119915 
專利 
國外 預估 0  件 提出申請  0 件，獲得 0 件
博士 1 人，畢業任職於業界 1 人 
博士 0 人，畢業任職於業
界  0 人  
(本計畫只核准碩士級兼任助理) 
碩士 1 人，畢業任職於業界 1 人 
碩士 1 人，畢業任職於業
界  人  
黃琬淳碩士畢業，目前就讀
中興材料所博士班一年級 
人才培育 
其他 0 人，畢業任職於業界 0 人 
其他 0 人，畢業任職於業
界  0 人 
期刊論文  0 件 發表期刊論文  0 件 
研討會論文  1  件 發表研討會論文 3  件 
(OPT 2009) 
SCI論文  0 件 發表SCI論文 0  件 
專書 0  件 完成專書  0 件 
國內 
技術報告  1 件 完成技術報告  1 件 
-結案報告 
期刊論文  2 件 發表期刊論文  2 件 
學術論文  1 件 發表學術論文  1 件 
研討會論文  0 件 發表研討會論文 0 件 
SCI/ SSCI論文 0  件 發表SCI/ SSCI論文  4 件 
專書  0 件 完成專書  0 件 
論文著作 
國外 
技術報告  0 件 完成技術報告  0 件 
其他協助產業發
展之具體績效 新公司或衍生公司   0  家 
設立新公司或衍生公司 (名
稱)：          
 
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords)，摘要以五百字以內為原則。 
 
本計畫主要利用光輔助電化學蝕刻技術結合氮化鋁濕式犧牲層，設計高取光效率之氮
化銦鎵晶片技術開發： 
 
(1)在磊晶層與基板界面製作高取光倒角錐結構：首先開發具濕式蝕刻側蝕特性之氮化
鋁緩衝層/犧牲層磊晶結構，利用濕式側向移除晶粒周圍氮化鋁犧牲層，由於底部
暴露出來之 N-face 氮化鎵可以在加熱氫氧化鉀溶液中蝕刻出具有{ 1110 }晶格面角
錐結構。當元件進行 20 微安培電流注入時，在元件周圍 30 微米底部測蝕區域，可
明顯觀察到光取出亮度提升效果，可有效提高氮化銦鎵元件之外部量子效率。 
(2)在元件周圍製作具角錐柱狀高取光結構：利用元件平台蝕刻製程，同時在平台周圍
製作 5 微米陣列之圓柱結構，搭配光輔助電化學側向蝕刻技術將周圍未用於發光功
能之量子井結構，蝕刻成穩定微倒角錐結構，在電注入發光時，可觀察到明顯光強
度提升特性，進一步建立元件接面溫度（Junction temperature）實驗架設與量測分
析，觀察輕微側蝕周圍量子井結構並不影響元件接面溫度，可得到 42%之發光亮
度提升。 
 
本計畫與合作廠商政齊科技開發高取光效率之氮化銦鎵晶片技術開發，成功開發具量
產可行性之製程技術，目前第一項在磊晶層/基板界面製作高取光倒角錐結構已經可以
應用於業界標準量產技術，並完成專利撰寫（中華民國發明專利申請：具蝕刻通道的
磊晶結構及其製造方法，申請案號：99119915）。第二項研究成果已開完成技術開發，
目前將設計光罩進行元件製程技術導入。 
 
關鍵詞：側向蝕刻速率、光輔助電化學製程、氮化鋁犧牲層、倒角錐結構 
 
High chemical lateral etching rate at AlN buffer/sacrificial layer embedded into 
GaN/patterned-sapphire substrate of InGaN-basedlight emitting diode (LED) was achieved. 
An air-void structure was observed at a truncated triangular patterned sapphire that provided 
an empty space to increase the lateral etching rate of the AlN sacrificial layer. A 30 _m wide 
lateral etched region was observed around the LED chip. After a chemical lateral 
wet-etching process on AlN sacrificial layer and a bottom-up N-face etching process on 
GaN epitaxial layer, the stable crystallographic etching planes were formed as GaN { 1110 } 
planes. The treated LED structure had a higher light-output power and a smaller divergent 
angle compared with conventional LED structure.  
An InGaN-based LED with an inverted cone-shaped pillar structure was fabricated 
through a plasma dry etching process and a photoelectrochemical (PEC) process. The 
undercut structure was fabricated through a bandgap-selective PEC etching process that 
occurred at the InGaN active layer. Then, the inverted cone-shaped pillar structure was 
formed through a bottom-up crystallographic etching process in a hot potassium hydroxide 
solution. The light-output power of the LED with an inverted cone-shaped pillar structure 
had a 42% enhancement compared with the standard LED without the pillar structure at a 
20mA operating current. A higher light intensity of the PEC-treated LED was observed 
around the mesa-edge region and the pillar structures as a result of a higher light-scattering 
process occurring at the inverted cone-shaped structure. 
 
 
 
Keywords ：  Lateral etching rate, photoelectrochemical (PEC) process, AlN sacrificial 
layer, inverted cone-shaped structure 
wafer was immersed in a hot 2.2M KOH solution (80oC) for a 3-minute lateral wet etching 
process that occurred at the AlN buffer/sacrificial layer, and together with a bottom-up N-face 
crystallographic etching process, they were used to fabricate an inverted cone-shaped N-face 
GaN structure around the LED chip. A 240nm-thick indium-tin-oxide layer (ITO) was deposited 
on the mesa region as a transparent contact layer (TCL). The Cr/Au metal layers were deposited 
as n-type and p-type contact pads. The LED devices that were fabricated through this process 
flow, with and without, the lateral wet etching process were defined as a laterally-etched LED 
(LE-LED) and a standard LED (ST-LED), respectively. The geometric morphology of these LED 
structures was observed through a scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The light-output power 
and the diversion angle of both LED chips were characterized by an optical spectrum analyzer 
(Ando-6315A) and a precision semiconductor parameter analyzer (Agilent 4156C). The 
light-intensity profiles that went across the whole LED sample were measured by a beam profiler 
(Spiricon: number of effective pixels: 1600×1200 pixels) on the LED chip forms.  
   
Results and Discussion 
From the cross-section SEM micrographs shown in Fig. 1(a), the laser scribing depth on 
the LE-LED structure was measured as 26μm consequently isolating the InGaN-based LED chips. 
Next, the AlN buffer/sacrificial layer was exposed for a lateral wet etching process. After a 3-min 
lateral and crystallographic wet etching process in a hot KOH solution, the inverted cone-shaped 
structures were formed at the GaN/patterned-sapphire interface around the edges of LED chip. 
The cone-shaped structure runs parallel to the TCL and the penetration depth is 30um, measured 
in Fig. 1(a), and the lateral etching rate of the AlN sacrificial layer was also calculated at about 
10μm/min. The larger inverted-cone-shaped GaN structure was observed close to the laser 
scribing line. The stable crystallographic etching planes were formed as the GaN { 1110 } planes 
and had an included angle with the bottom Al2O3 (0001) plane calculated as 58o, shown in Fig. 
1(b). In Fig. 1(c), a 6.8μm-thick InGaN-based LED epitaxial layer was grown on a patterned 
sapphire substrate. Air-voids were observed at the top of the truncated triangular pyramids on the 
patterned sapphire substrate. After the lateral wet-etching process, the air-voids at the top of the 
truncated triangular pyramids provided an empty space to increase the lateral etching rate of the 
sacrificial AlN buffer layer. Next, the bottom-up N-face crystallographic wet etching process 
formed the inverted-cone-shaped structure at the bottom of the GaN epitaxial layer, shown in Fig. 
1(d). The schematic of the LE-LED structure are shown in Fig. 2 where the fabrication steps 
consisted of a laser scribing process, a lateral wet etching process, and a bottom-up N-face 
crystallographic wet etching process. The lateral etching region at the GaN/patterned-sapphire 
interface was observed at the range from the LED chip edge to the TCL edge. The InGaN MQW 
active layers at the mesa region were not etched or damaged during the lateral wet etching 
process because the laterally etched region is far from the InGaN active layer.  
 In Fig. 3(a), the light-output power and the operating voltage were measured as functions 
of the DC injection current. The light-output power of the LE-LED had a 16% enhancement 
compared to the ST-LED at a 20mA operating current. The peak wavelength of the EL spectrum 
was measured at about 465nm for both LED structures at a 20mA operating current. The 
operating voltages of both LED samples were almost the same at the value of 3.27V at 20mA. 
Because the laterally wet etched regions were located at the bottom of the LED structure 
surrounding the LED chip close to the sapphire substrate there was no damage to the active layer 
and to the TCL current injecting area. The results strongly indicate (especially in connection with 
Fig 4e) that the higher light-output was caused by the higher light scattering process from the 
bottom roughened surface at GaN/patterned-sapphire interface that increased the external 
quantum efficiency. 
The far-field radiation patterns of both LED structures were measured at a 20mA operating 
current, shown in Fig. 3(b). The detection angles varied from 0o (normal direction)→90o 
(right-side)→180o (back-side) →270o (left-side) in order to analyze the far field patterns for both 
LED samples. A divergent angle of an LED is identified as the angle of the half-maximum 
emission intensity. The divergent angles were measured from the front sides of the ST-LED and 
the LE-LED as 154o and 130o, respectively. From the far-field radiation patterns shown in Fig. 3b, 
the total light output power, integrated the light intensity of all detected angles from 0o to 360o, of 
the LE-LED structure has a 1.15 times larger enhancement compared to a ST-LED structure. The 
 Fig. 1. (a) The InGaN-based LED chips were isolated by the laser 
scribing depth on the LE-LED structure that was measured as 26 μm. 
(b) A larger inverted-cone-shaped structure was observed at the chip 
edge region. Cross-sections SEM micrographs of the LED epitaxial 
layers (c) without and (d) with lateral wet etching processes are 
shown. 
Fig. 2. The schematic diagram of the LE-LED structure with the 
roughened backside on the N-face GaN surface is shown here. The 
sacrificial AlN buffer later at GaN/patterned sapphire interface is 
laterally etched as the inverted cone-shaped N-face GaN structure 
surrounding the LED chip without affecting the current injection 
region. 
Fig. 3. (a) For both LED samples, the current-voltage (I-V) 
characteristics and the light output power as a function of the 
operating current are measured here. (b) The far-field radiation 
patterns of both LED structures were measured at a 20mA operating 
current. 
 
Fig. 4 The light-intensity micrograph of (a) the ST-LED and (b) the 
LE-LED at a 20mA operation current are measured by a beam 
profiler. Larger magnification of the light-intensity micrographs, (c) 
the ST-LED and (d) the LE-LED, are observed at the laterally etched 
region from the chip edge to the ITO layer. (e) The line-scan light 
intensities of the both LED structures, with and without the lateral 
etching process, are measured here. The ICP-etched region (region 
A), the mesa edge without ITO layer (region B), and the mesa region 
with the ITO layer (region C) were labeled. 
The tips of the inverted cone-shaped structures were terminated at the n-type GaN surface where 
the MQW active layers are located.  
The light output power as a function of operating current of the ST-LED, P-LED, and PP-LED 
were measured as shown in Fig. 2(a). At a 20 mA operation current, the light output power of the 
P-LED and the PP-LED had 15% and 42% enhancements compared to the ST-LED. The peak 
wavelength of the EL spectrum was measured at about 460nm for all the LED samples at a 20mA 
operating current. The 42% light enhancement of the PP-LED compared with the ST-LED caused 
by the higher light scattering process from the inverted cone-shaped structure around the mesa 
edge region and on the pillar structure. The far-field radiation patterns of the ST-LED, P-LED, 
and PP-LED structures were measured at a 20mA operating current as shown in Fig. 2(b). Higher 
light emission intensities for the P-LED and the PP-LED were observed at the normal direction 
(90o) of the LED chip form compared to the ST-LED. The higher light emission intensity at the 
normal direction for the PP-LED could be because of the emission light reflected by the bottom 
Al2O3 substrate and then extracted by the PEC treated pillar structures.  
In Fig. 3(a),(b), The PP-LED and ST-LED chips are mounted in a TO-25 package for the 
junction temperature measurement. In PP-LED structure, the lateral etched width was about 5μm 
that the effective emitting area has 7.8% reduced on the mesa region compared to the ST-LED. 
Both of the LED samples were operated through a pulsed forward current (with duty cycle 0.1%) 
in the oven by varying the ambient temperature from 20oC to 120oC that the heat generated by the 
pulsed current can be neglected.[7] The operating voltages of both LED samples as the functions 
of the ambient temperature and a pulsed forward current were shown in Fig. 3(a). The 
temperature coefficients of the forward voltage at low currents (dVF /dT) are −3.20 mV/K for the 
ST-LED and −3.23 mV/K for the PP-LED structures. The dc forward voltage values of both LED 
structures are measured under the dc forward operating current shown in Fig. 3(b). Then, the 
junction temperatures of both LED structures were analyzed by varying the operating current. 
The junction temperatures and dc operating voltage at 20mA operating current were measured at 
33.5oC (3.6V) for the ST-LED and 42.1oC (3.64V) for the PP-LED. The slightly higher operating 
voltage and slightly higher junction temperatures were observed in the PP-LED compared with 
the ST-LED that could be caused by reducing the effective emission area and increasing the 
injection current density. 
In Fig. 4(a)(b), the light intensity profiles of the P-LED and the PP-LED structures were 
measured by using a beam profiler from the top view direction at 20 mA. In the P-LED structure, 
the higher light intensity was observed at the edge of the mesa and the pillar structure. In the 
PP-LED structure, the stronger light intensity was observed around the PEC-treated mesa edge 
region and the pillar structure. To analyze the light intensity distribution on the mesa and pillar 
structures, the line-scanning light intensity profiles of the P-LED and the PP-LED samples are 
shown in Fig. 4(c)(d) where the observation positions are marked in Fig. 4(a)(b) with dash lines 
along x-axis. The resolution of the beam profiler is 0.46μm/pixel. The widths of the higher light 
intensity regions at the mesa edges were measured as the values of 1.2μm and 19.0μm of the 
P-LED and the PP-LED structures, respectively.  The larger emission width and higher light 
intensity of the PP-LED structure were caused by the larger light scattering process at the PEC 
treated region around the mesa edge. The light intensity at the central mesa region with the ITO 
layer was almost the same in the P-LED and the PP-LED samples. The average light intensity 
enhanced ratio of the PP-LED structure was about 1.67 times compared to the P-LED. The 
inverted cone-shaped structure was formed in the whole pillar structure after the PEC process. A 
higher light intensity was observed at the edge region of the 5μm-square pillar structure in the 
P-LED structure. The light intensity of the PEC-treated pillar structure was distributed across the 
whole pillar structure in the PP-LED structure indicating a higher light scattering process 
occurring at the PEC-treated inverted cone-shaped structure. The partial EL emitting light emitted 
from InGaN active layer can be extracted from the inverted cone-shaped pillar structure into free 
space as shown in Fig 3(e). In the light path A, the light emitted from InGaN active layer was 
scattered by the roughened ITO layer to the normal direction of the LED chip.  In light paths B 
and C, the emitting light was coupled into the inverted cone-shaped structure, located at mesa 
edge and the pillar structure, and extracted to the normal direction of the LED chip.  In light 
path C, the light is being reflected at the interface of GaN buffer and sapphire substrate. The light 
output power of the PP-LED was increased by forming the inverted cone-shaped structure and the 
top roughened ITO layer.         
 
References 
                                                 
[1] K. Tadatomo, H. Okagawa, Y. Ohuchi, T. Tsunekawa, Y. Imada, M. Kato, and T. Taguchi, 
Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 40, p.583 (2001). 
[2] C. Huh, K. S. Lee, E. J. Kang, and S. J. Park, J. Appl. Phys. 93, p.9383 (2003). 
[3] S. J. Chang, L. W. Wu, Y. K. Su, Y. P. Hsu, W. C. Lai, J. M. Tsai, J. K. Sheu, and C. T. Lee, 
IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., 16, p.1447 (2004). 
[4] Ji Hye Kang, Hyung Gu Kim, Hyun Kyu Kim, Hee Yun Kim, Jae Hyoung Ryu, Periyayya 
Uthirakumar, Nam Han, and Chang-Hee Hong, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 48 pp. 102104 (2009). 
[5] H. Y. Lee, Y. H. Chou, C. T. Lee, W. Y. Yeh, and M. T. Chu, J. Appl. Phys., vol. 107, 
014503 (2010). 
[6] A. David, T. Fujii, R. Sharma, K. Mcgroody, S. Nakamura, S. P. DenBaars, E. L. Hu, and C. 
Weisbuch, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 061124 (2006). 
[7] Hyun Kyong Cho, Junho Jang, Jeong-Hyeon Choi, Jaewan Choi, Jongwook Kim, Jeong Soo 
Lee, Beomseok Lee, Young Ho Choe, Ki-Dong Lee, Sang Hoon Kim, Kwyro Lee, 
Sun-Kyung Kim, and Yong-Hee Lee, Optics Express, Vol. 14, Issue 19, pp. 8654-8660 
(2006)  
[8] H. G. Kim, M. G. Na, H. K. Kim, H. Y. Kim, J. H. Ryu, T. V. Cuong, and C.-H. Hong, 
Appl.Phys. Lett., vol. 90, p. 261117, 2007. 
[9] C. F Lin, Z. J. Yang, J. H. Zheng, and J. J. Dai, IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., Vol. 17, No. 10, 
p.2038 (2005). 
[10] T. Fujii, Y. Gao, R. Sharma, E. L. Hu, S. P. DenBaars, and S. Nakamura, Appl. Phys. Lett. 
84, 855 (2004). 
[11] D. S. Kuo, Shoou-Jinn Chang, T. K. Ko, C. F. Shen, S. J. Hon, and S. C. Hung, IEEE 
PHOTONICS TECHNOLOGY LETTERS, Vol. 21, No. 8, pp.510-512, APRIL, 2009 
[12] C. W. Kuo, Y. C. Lee, Y. K. Fu, C. H. Tsai, M. L. Wu, G. C. Chi, C. H. Kuo, and C. J. Tun,  
IEEE JOURNAL OF SELECTED TOPICS IN QUANTUM ELECTRONICS, Vol. 15, No. 
4, pp.1254-1268, JULY/AUGUST (2009). 
[13] Chia-Feng Lin, Chun-Min Lin, Chung-Chieh Yang, Wei-Kai Wang, Yu-Chieh Huang, 
Jien-An Chen, and Ray-Hua Horng, Volume 12, Issue 7, pp. H233-H237, (2009). 
[14] Yewchung Sermon Wu, Ji-Hao Cheng, Wei Chih Peng, and Hao Ouyang, “Effects of laser 
sources on the reverse-bias leakages of laser lift-off GaN-based light-emitting diodes”, Appl 
Phys. Lett. 90, 251110 (2007) 
[15] H. Goto, S. W. Lee, H. J. Lee, H.-J. Lee, J. S. Ha, M. W. Cho, and T. Yao, Phys. Status 
Solidi C 5, 1659 (2008). 
[16] D. J. Rogers, F. Hosseini Teherani, A. Ougazzaden, S. Gautier, L. Divay, A. Lusson, O. 
Durand, F. Wyczisk, G. Garry, T. Monteiro, M. R. Correira, M. Peres, A. Neves, D. 
McGrouther and J. N. Chapman, and M. Razeghi, , Appl Phys. Lett. 91, 071120 (2007) 
[17] Joonmo Park, Kwang Min Song, Seong-Ran Jeon,  Jong Hyeob Baek, and Sang-Wan Ryu, 
Appl Phys. Lett. 94, 221907 (2009) 
[18] J.-S. Ha, S. W. Lee, H.-J. Lee, H.-J. Lee, S. H. Lee, H. Goto, T. Kato, K. Fujii, M. W. Cho, 
and T. Yao, IEEE Photonics Technol. Lett. 20, 175 (2008). 
[ 19 ] Chia-Feng Lin, Jing-Jie Dai, Ming-Shiou Lin, Kuei-Ting Chen, Wan-Chun Huang, 
Chun-Min Lin, Ren-Hao Jiang, and Yu-Chieh Huang, “An AlN Sacrificial Buffer Layer 
Inserted into the GaN/Patterned Sapphire Substrate for a Chemical Lift-off Process”, 
Applied Physics Express, Vol. 3 (3) pp.031001 (2010) 
AlN buffer layer. Next, the bottom-up N-face crystallographic wet-
etching process formed the inverted conical structure at the bottom
of the GaN epitaxial layer shown in Fig. 1d. The schematic of the
LE-LED structure is shown in Fig. 2, where the fabrication steps
consisted of a laser scribing process, a lateral wet-etching process,
and a bottom-up N-face crystallographic wet-etching process. The
lateral etching region at the GaN/patterned-sapphire interface was
observed at the range from the LED chip edge to the TCL edge. The
InGaN MQW active layers at the mesa region were not etched or
damaged during the lateral wet-etching process because the laterally
etched region is far from the InGaN active layer.
In Fig. 3a, the light-output power and the operating voltage were
measured as functions of the dc injection current. The light-output
power of the LE-LED had a 16% enhancement compared to the
ST-LED at a 20 mA operating current. The peak wavelength of the
electroluminescence spectrum was measured at about 465 nm for
both LED structures at a 20 mA operating current. The operating
voltages of both LED samples were almost the same at the value of
3.27 V at 20 mA. Because the laterally wet-etched regions were
located at the bottom of the LED structure surrounding the LED
chip close to the sapphire substrate, there was no damage to the
active layer and to the TCL current injecting area. The results
strongly indicate especially in connection with Fig. 4e that the
higher light-output was caused by the higher light scattering process
from the bottom roughened surface at the GaN/patterned-sapphire
interface that increased the external quantum efficiency.
The far-field radiation patterns of both LED structures were mea-
sured at a 20 mA operating current shown in Fig. 3b. The detection
angles varied from 0° normal direction → 90°, right side
→ 180°, and back side → 270° left side to analyze the far-field
patterns for both LED samples. A divergent angle of an LED is
identified as the angle of the half-maximum emission intensity. The
divergent angles were measured from the front sides of the ST-LED
and the LE-LED as 154° and 130°, respectively. From the far-field
radiation patterns shown in Fig. 3b, the total light-output power of
the LE-LED structure, which integrated the light intensity of all
detected angles from 0° to 360°, has a 1.15 times larger enhance-
ment compared with an ST-LED structure. The light intensity of the
LE-LED was higher than the ST-LED between 0° and 67° detected
angles. The possible reasons for the small divergent angles and
higher light intensity at the normal direction for the LE-LED struc-
ture could be the emission light at the lateral direction being scat-
tered to the normal direction by the inverted conical structures
around the chip edge region.
The light-intensity profiles of both LED samples at a 20 mA
operating current were measured by a beam profiler Fig. 4a and b.
Light intensity is distributed uniformly on the whole LED mesa
region for the ST-LED. In both LED structures, the light intensity
was almost the same at the central mesa region with the ITO layer.
The higher light intensity was observed at the triangular patterns on
the patterned-sapphire substrate that had the larger light scattering
process at the GaN/sapphire interface. The light-intensity profiles of
both LED samples at the LED chip edge regions are measured and
shown in Fig. 4c and d. In the ST-LED structure, the lower light-
intensity regions were observed at the 15 m wide ICP-etched re-
gion and 10 m wide mesa edge region without a TCL layer. In
the LE-LED structure, a higher light-intensity region was observed
p-GaN:Mg layer
GaN:Si layer
Patterned Al2O3 substrate
MQW active layer
Step 2: Lateral wet etching on AlN buffer layer
Step 3: N-face crystallographic
etching process
Step 1: Front-side
laser scribing
process
AlN buffer layer
Cr/Au
Cr/Au
ITO layer
n-GaN:Si layer
10 m-width
without ITO
Lateral etched width
Figure 2. Color online Schematic diagram of the LE-LED structure with
the roughened back side on the N-face GaN surface. Sacrificial AlN buffer
layer at GaN/patterned-sapphire interface is laterally etched as the inverted
conical N-face GaN structure surrounding the LED chip without affecting
the current injection region.
Figure 1. Color online a InGaN-based
LED chips were isolated by the laser
scribing depth on the LE-LED structure
that was measured as 26 m. b A larger
inverted conical structure was observed at
the chip edge region. Cross section SEM
micrographs of the LED epitaxial layers
c without and d with lateral wet-
etching processes.
H310 Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters, 13 9 H309-H312 2010
Downloaded 15 Aug 2010 to 140.120.134.38. Redistribution subject to ECS license or copyright; see http://www.ecsdl.org/terms_use.jsp
Taguchi, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 2, 40, L583 2001.
2. C. Huh, K.-S. Lee, E.-J. Kang, and S.-J. Park, J. Appl. Phys., 93, 9383 2003.
3. S. J. Chang, L. W. Wu, Y. K. Su, Y. P. Hsu, W. C. Lai, J. M. Tsai, J. K. Sheu, and
C. T. Lee, IEEE Photonics Technol. Lett., 16, 1447 2004.
4. J. H. Kang, H. G. Kim, H. K. Kim, H. Y. Kim, J. H. Ryu, P. Uthirakumar, N. Han,
and C.-H. Hong, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Part 1, 48, 102104 2009.
5. H.-Y. Lee, Y.-H. Chou, C.-T. Lee, W.-Y. Yeh, and M.-T. Chu, J. Appl. Phys., 107,
014503 2010.
6. A. David, T. Fujii, R. Sharma, K. McGroddy, S. Nakamura, S. P. DenBaars, E. L.
Hu, C. Weisbuch, and H. Benisty, Appl. Phys. Lett., 88, 061124 2006.
7. H. K. Cho, J. Jang, J.-H. Choi, J. Choi, J. Kim, J. S. Lee, B. Lee, Y. H. Choe, K.-D.
Lee, S. H. Kim, et al., Opt. Express, 14, 8654 2006.
8. H. G. Kim, M. G. Na, H. K. Kim, H. Y. Kim, J. H. Ryu, T. V. Cuong, and C.-H.
Hong, Appl. Phys. Lett., 90, 261117 2007.
9. C.-F. Lin, Z.-J. Yang, J.-H. Zheng, and J.-J. Dai, IEEE Photonics Technol. Lett.,
17, 2038 2005.
10. T. Fujii, Y. Gao, R. Sharma, E. L. Hu, S. P. DenBaars, and S. Nakamura, Appl.
Phys. Lett., 84, 855 2004.
11. D. S. Kuo, S.-J. Chang, T. K. Ko, C. F. Shen, S. J. Hon, and S. C. Hung, IEEE
Photonics Technol. Lett., 21, 510 2009.
12. C. W. Kuo, Y. C. Lee, Y. K. Fu, C. H. Tsai, M. L. Wu, G. C. Chi, C. H. Kuo, and
C. J. Tun, IEEE J. Sel. Top. Quantum Electron., 15, 1254 2009.
13. C.-F. Lin, C.-M. Lin, C.-C. Yang, W.-K. Wang, Y.-C. Huang, J.-A. Chen, and R.-H.
Horng, Electrochem. Solid-State Lett., 12, H233 2009.
14. Y. S. Wu, J.-H. Cheng, W. C. Peng, and H. Ouyang, Appl. Phys. Lett., 90, 251110
2007.
15. H. Goto, S. W. Lee, H. J. Lee, H.-J. Lee, J. S. Ha, M. W. Cho, and T. Yao, Phys.
Status Solidi C, 5, 1659 2008.
16. D. J. Rogers, F. Hosseini Teherani, A. Ougazzaden, S. Gautier, L. Divay, A. Lus-
son, O. Durand, F. Wyczisk, G. Garry, T. Monteiro, et al., Appl. Phys. Lett., 91,
071120 2007.
17. J. Park, K. M. Song, S.-R. Jeon, J. H. Baek, and S.-W. Ryu, Appl. Phys. Lett., 94,
221907 2009.
18. J.-S. Ha, S. W. Lee, H.-J. Lee, H.-J. Lee, S. H. Lee, H. Goto, T. Kato, K. Fujii, M.
W. Cho, and T. Yao, IEEE Photonics Technol. Lett., 20, 175 2008.
19. C.-F. Lin, J.-J. Dai, M.-S. Lin, K.-T. Chen, W.-C. Huang, C.-M. Lin, R.-H. Jiang,
and Y.-C. Huang, Appl. Phys. Express, 3, 031001 2010.
H312 Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters, 13 9 H309-H312 2010
Downloaded 15 Aug 2010 to 140.120.134.38. Redistribution subject to ECS license or copyright; see http://www.ecsdl.org/terms_use.jsp
LIN et al.: InGaN LIGHT-EMITTING DIODES WITH THE INVERTED CONE-SHAPED PILLAR STRUCTURES 459
Fig. 2. (a) Light-output power as a function of the dc injection current was
measured at room temperature. (b) LED samples show the measurements of
the far-field radiation patterns by varying the detected angles from (θ = 0◦)
the right direction to the (θ = 180◦) left direction.
potassium hydroxide (KOH) solution and illuminated by a
400-W Hg lamp with an unintentionally doped GaN filter for
5 min. A positive 1-V external dc bias was applied on the
LED wafer as the anode contact, and a platinum electrode was
used as the cathode. Then, the LED samples were immersed
in an 80 ◦C 2.2-M KOH solution for a bottom-up N-face crys-
tallographic etching process. The LED with a pillar structure
was defined as the pillar-LED (P-LED). The LED structure
with a PEC-treated pillar structure was defined as the PEC-
pillar-LED (PP-LED). The surface morphologies of the LED
samples were observed by using a JEOL 6700F field-emission
scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The light-output power,
current–voltage (I–V ) curves, and the intensity profiles were
characterized at the chip level by an optical spectrum analyzer
(Ando-6315A), an Agilent 4156C precision semiconductor
parameter analyzer, and a beam profiler (Spiricon: effective
pixels: 1600 × 1200 pixels).
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
The InGaN LED structure with a pillar structure was ob-
served around the mesa-edge region and the pillar structures as
shown in Fig. 1(a). In Fig. 1(b), the bottom-up N-face etching
process occurred from the InGaN active layer to the top p-type
GaN:Mg surface terminating at the ITO TCL layer as in-
verted cone-shaped structures. The roughened ITO layer was
fabricated through the PEC process that can increase the light-
extraction efficiency. A cross-sectional SEM micrographs of
the pillar structure with PP-LED and P-LED, with and without
PEC treatment, respectively, are shown in Fig. 1(c) and (d).
The height of the inverted cone-shaped structure was measured
at 430 nm including the top p-type GaN layer and the bottom
InGaN/GaN MQW layers. The tips of the inverted cone-shaped
structures were terminated at the n-type GaN surface where the
MQW active layers are located.
The light-output power as a function of operating current of
the ST-LED, P-LED, and PP-LED were measured, as shown
in Fig. 2(a). At a 20-mA operation current, the light-output
power of the P-LED and the PP-LED had 15% and 42%
enhancements, respectively, compared with the ST-LED. The
peak wavelength of the EL spectrum was measured at about
460 nm for all the LED samples at a 20-mA operating current.
The 42% light enhancement of the PP-LED compared with the
ST-LED caused by the higher light-scattering process from the
Fig. 3. (a) Experimental forward voltage versus oven temperature for different
pulsed currents. (b) Junction temperatures and operating voltages as a function
of the dc forward current for both LED devices.
inverted cone-shaped structure around the mesa-edge region
and on the pillar structure. The far-field radiation patterns of
the ST-LED, P-LED, and PP-LED structures were measured
at a 20-mA operating current, as shown in Fig. 2(b). Higher
light-emission intensities for the P-LED and the PP-LED were
observed at the normal direction (90◦) of the LED chip form
compared with the ST-LED.
In Fig. 3(a) and (b), the PP-LED and ST-LED chips were
mounted unto TO-25 packages for the junction-temperature
measurement. The structure and electric properties of the
P-LED structure are almost the same as the ST-LED structure
after adding the pillar structure around the mesa region without
the PEC treatment. Compared with the ST-LED structure, in the
PP-LED structure, the laterally etched width was about 5 μm
around the mesa-edge region where the effective emitting area
was reduced by 7.8% on the mesa region. Both the LED
samples were operated through a pulsed forward current (with a
duty cycle of 0.1%) in the oven by varying the ambient tempera-
ture from 20 ◦C to 120 ◦C. The heat generated can be ne-
glected by using a pulse forward current. [7] The operating
voltages of both LED samples as functions of the ambient/oven
temperature and a pulsed forward current are shown in Fig. 3(a).
The temperature coefficients of the forward voltage (dVf/dT)
at low currents (20 mA) are −3.20 mV/K for the ST-LED
and −3.23 mV/K for the PP-LED structures. The dc
current–voltage (I–V ) curves of the newly selected LED sam-
ples for the junction-temperature measurement were replotted
and shown in Fig. 3(b). Then, the junction temperatures of both
LED structures were analyzed by varying the operating current.
The junction temperatures and dc operating voltage at 20-mA
operating current were measured at the values of 33.5 ◦C
(3.6 V) for the ST-LED and 42.1 ◦C (3.64 V) for the PP-LED.
Slightly higher operating voltage and junction temperatures
were observed in the PP-LED compared with the ST-LED,
perhaps caused by a reduction in the effective emission area
and an increase in the injection-current density.
In Fig. 4(a) and (b), the light-intensity profiles of the P-LED
and the PP-LED structures were measured by using a beam
profiler from the top-view direction at 20 mA. In the P-LED
structure, the higher light intensity was observed at the edge of
the mesa and the pillar structure. In the PP-LED structure, the
stronger light intensity was observed around the PEC-treated
mesa-edge region and the pillar structure. To analyze the light-
intensity distribution on the mesa and pillar structures, the
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chung Hsing University. Downloaded on May 04,2010 at 00:51:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
InGaN-based light-emitting solar cells with a pattern-nanoporous p-type
GaN:Mg layer
Kuei-Ting Chen, Chia-Feng Lin ⁎, Chun-Min Lin, Chung-Chieh Yang, Ren-Hao Jiang
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Chung Hsing University, 250 Kuo Kuang Road, Taichung 402, Taiwan, ROC
a b s t r a c ta r t i c l e i n f o
Available online 8 May 2010
Keywords:
InGaN-based optoelectronic device
Photoeletrochemical (PEC) process
InGaN-based light-emitting solar cells (LESCs) with a nanoporous micro-pattern array (NMPA) p-type GaN:
Mg structures were fabricated through a photoeletrochemical (PEC) process. The photovoltaic property of
these NMPA devices was analyzed. The higher light output power and light absorption properties were
observed from the NMPA structure compared with the standard devices. The nanoporous structures acted as
an anti-reﬂection layer to increase the light-coupling process at the light propagation surface. The light
output power of the NMPA-LESCs had a 41% enhancement at 20-mA operating current, compared to
standard LESCs (ST-LESCs). The peak external quantum efﬁciencies (EQE) were measured as the values of
42% (at 365 nm) and 27% (at 370 nm) for the NMPA-LESCs and the ST-LESCs structures, respectively. The
photovoltaic device structure with the NMPA structure had the higher EQE at the ultraviolet (UV) region for
higher efﬁciency nitride-based solar cell devices applications.
© 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
1. Introduction
The indium gallium nitride-based (InGaN-based) optoelectronic
devices have recently attracted extensive investigation because of
their wide applications in different industries such as light-emitting
diodes (LEDs), laser diodes, and photovoltaic devices. The InGaN-
based LED with the patterned sapphire substrates [1], the photonic
crystal structures [2], the textured p-type GaN:Mg surface from nano-
imprint technology [3], the nano-sphere lithography [4], and the
vertical-type LED covered with a patterned high-index layer [5] were
all used to improve the light extraction efﬁciency. Mostly, the surface
texturing processes were fabricated through an inductively couple
plasma (ICP) dry etching process that affected the electrical properties
of the LED structures. A bias-assisted photoelectrochemical (PEC) wet
etching method was reported to roughen the p-GaN surface
effectively in potassium hydroxide (KOH) solution [6]. Otherwise,
the photovoltaic devices fabricated from InGaN alloys had been
reported in recent years [7]. The multiple-quantum well (MQW)
structures as an absorption layer in InGaN-based solar cell [8] also
exhibit a desirable photovoltaic characteristic. In order to maximize
the conversion efﬁciency of InGaN solar cell, methods like bonding
onto mirror-coated Si substrate [9], textured top p-type InGaN layer
with an anti-reﬂective coating indium tin oxide (ITO) layer [10] were
proposed to achieve this objective.
In this paper, the nanoporous micro-pattern array (NMPA) struc-
tures on the p-type GaN:Mg surface were fabricated through a PEC wet
oxidation process in deionized water and an oxide-removing process in
a diluted hydrochloric acid (HCl) solution. The continuous-nanoporous
structures distributed around the micro-pattern region could enhance
the light output power and light absorption of the InGaN/GaN MQW
active layer for the LED and photovoltaic device. The light output power
and the photovoltaic characteristics of the PEC treated InGaN-based
light-emitting solar cells (LESCs) are discussed in more detail here.
2. Experimental details
The LESC structures consisted of a 1 μm-thick unintentionally
doped GaN layer, a 3 μm-thick n-type GaN layer, ten pairs of InGaN/
GaNMQWactive layers, a 0.05 μm-thick p-type AlGaN:Mg layer, and a
0.3 μm-thick p-type GaN:Mg layer. The active layers consisted of ten
pairs each with a 3 nm-thick InGaN well layer and a 7 nm-thick GaN
barrier layer in the InGaN/GaN MQW structures. A 2-in. LESC wafer
was divided into two half, and one of the half was used to fabricate the
conventional devices (without the PEC treatment), and the other was
the nanoporous micro-pattern array devices. A 200 nm-thick titanium
(Ti) metal was deposited on the top p-type GaN:Mg surface by an
electron beam (E-gun) evaporation system, and 5 μm-diameter disk
array patterns were deﬁned through a photolithography process. An
800 W mercury (Hg) lamp was used as the front-side illumination
source during the PEC process. An external direct current (DC) bias
ﬁxed at a positive 15 V was applied to the p-type GaN:Mg layer
surface as the anode contact, and platinum was applied as the
cathode. The LED structure with a nanoporous micro-pattern array
Thin Solid Films 518 (2010) 7377–7380
⁎ Corresponding author.
E-mail addresses: z8806137@hotmail.com (K.-T. Chen), cﬂin@dragon.nchu.edu.tw
(C.-F. Lin), jjj946@yahoo.com.tw (C.-M. Lin), totto.jack@msa.hinet.net (C.-C. Yang),
illumina@pchome.com.tw (R.-H. Jiang).
0040-6090/$ – see front matter © 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.tsf.2010.05.007
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Thin Solid Films
j ourna l homepage: www.e lsev ie r.com/ locate / ts f
nanoporous structure on p-type GaN:Mg surface. This result is
consistent with the forward voltage characteristic of the NMPA-
LESCs in LED operation.
Fig. 4(a) shows the emission wavelength of the EL spectra were
measured at 460.3 nm for ST-LESCs and 457.7 nm for NMPA-LESCs
with a 20-mA operating current. The blueshift phenomenon of the EL
emission spectra may be caused by the partial compress strain release
on the InGaN active layer by forming the nanoporous structure on the
top p-type GaN:Mg layer. The relative reﬂection spectra of both LESC
structures were measured shown in Fig. 4(b). The relative reﬂectivity
of the NMPA-LESCs with the patterned-nanoporous structure was
lower compared with the ST-LESCs. This lower reﬂectivity at shorter
wavelength range (360 nm to 500 nm) of the NMPA-LESCs indicated
that the patterned-nanoporous p-GaN:Mg surface provided a higher
light-coupling phenomenon and a higher external quantum efﬁciency
(EQE).
Fig. 5 shows the EQE spectra of the ST-LESCs and the NMPA-LESCs
measured as a function of excitation wavelength from 300 nm to
500 nm. The peak EQE values of ST-LESCs and NMPA-LESCs were
measured as the values of 27% (at 370 nm) and 42% (at 365 nm),
respectively. The higher response was observed at the shorter
wavelength region in the NMPA-LESCs structure. The peak EQE
response of the LESCs with NMPA structure was shifted to the shorter
wavelength region that could be caused by the higher light absorption
phenomenon at the GaN barrier layers and lower piezoelectric effect
at the InGaN well layers for InGaN/GaN MQW active layers.
Fig. 3. (a) The light output power and the operation voltage as a function of the
operating current and (b) J–V characteristics under the illumination of AM 1.5G were
measured for both LESC structures.
Fig. 4. (a) The EL spectra and (b) relative reﬂection spectra of both LESCs were
measured.
Fig. 5. The external quantum efﬁciency (EQE) for the ST-LESCs and NMPA-LESCs were
measured by varying the wavelength of excitation light at room temperature.
7379K.-T. Chen et al. / Thin Solid Films 518 (2010) 7377–7380
An AlN Sacrificial Buffer Layer Inserted into the GaN/Patterned Sapphire Substrate
for a Chemical Lift-Off Process
Chia-Feng Lin, Jing-Jie Dai, Ming-Shiou Lin, Kuei-Ting Chen, Wan-Chun Huang,
Chun-Min Lin, Ren-Hao Jiang, and Yu-Chieh Huang
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan 402, R.O.C.
Received December 7, 2009; accepted February 4, 2010; published online February 26, 2010
InGaN-based light-emitting diodes (LEDs) grown on triangle-shaped patterned sapphire substrates were separated through a chemical lift-off
process by laterally etching an AlN sacrificial layer at the GaN/sapphire substrate interface. After the epitaxial growth, an air-void structure was
observed at the patterned region on the sapphire substrate that provided an empty space to increase the lateral etching rate of the AlN buffer
layer. The lateral etching rate of the AlN buffer layer was calculated at 10 m/min for the 100-m-width LED chip that was lifted off from the
sapphire substrate. A triangular-shaped hole structure and a hexagonal-shaped air-void structure were observed on the lift-off GaN surface that
was transferred from the patterned sapphire substrate. Comparing to the LED/sapphire structure, a peak wavelength blueshift phenomenon of the
micro-photoluminescence spectra was observed on the lifted off LED chip caused by the release of a compressive strain at the GaN/sapphire
substrate interface. The chemical lift-off process was achieved by using an AlN buffer layer as a sacrificial layer in a hot potassium hydroxide
solution. # 2010 The Japan Society of Applied Physics
DOI: 10.1143/APEX.3.031001
G
allium nitride materials have attracted considerable
interest in the development of optoelectronic
devices like light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and
laser diodes. A chemical lift-oﬀ (CLO) technique has been
realized by using a CrN layer,1) a ZnO layer,2) and a Si-doped
n-GaN layer3) as the sacriﬁcial layers. Ha et al.4) reported
that vertical LEDs were successfully fabricated through a
chemical lift-oﬀ process using a selectively etched CrN
buﬀer layer. Wu et al.5) reported that the laser lift-oﬀ
processes on InGaN LED structure has increased the
dislocation density resulting in an increase of the reverse-
bias leakage current and cause the destruction of the GaN by
local heating during the laser treatment. The advantages over
conventional lift-oﬀ techniques are listed as follows. (1) The
conventional high eﬃciency InGaN LED structure consisted
of an AlN buﬀer layer, a patterned sapphire substrate, and
the air-void at GaN/sapphire interface that can be used for
the chemical lift-oﬀ process without optimizing the epitaxial
growth conditions. (2) The chemical lift-oﬀ process for
the InGaN-based LED can prevent from the laser damage on
the GaN epitaxial layer during the laser lift-oﬀ process. (3)
After lift-oﬀ the LED structure, the shape of patterned
sapphire and the roughened surface can provid a higher light
scattering surface to increase the light extraction eﬃciency.
In this paper, a description is given on how an InGaN-
based LED epitaxial layer was lifted oﬀ a patterned sapphire
substrate through the lateral etching of an AlN sacriﬁcial
layer at the GaN/Al2O3 interface using a hot potassium
hydroxide solution (KOH). The surface morphologies and
the optical properties of the lifted oﬀ InGaN epitaxial layers
are analyzed in detail.
InGaN-based LED structures were grown on c-face
(0001) 2-in.-diameter patterned sapphire substrates by
using a metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD)
system. The triangle-shaped patterns (5 m-width, 2 m-
height, and 5 m-spacing) were fabricated on a sapphire
substrate. The LED structure consisted of a 30-nm-thick AlN
buﬀer layer, a 6.5-m-thick n-type GaN layer, ten pairs of
InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells (MQWs) active layers,
and a 0.2-m-thick magnesium-doped p-type GaN layer.
The active layers consisted of a 30- A-thick InGaN-well
layer and a 70- A-thick GaN-barrier layer for the InGaN/
GaN MQW LED structure. A 100-m-width mesa pattern of
an LED chip was prepared for this experiment. A 500-nm-
thick SiOx layer was deposited on the LED epitaxial layer as
a hard mask for the inductively coupled plasma (ICP) dry
etching process. The chip region was deﬁned using an ICP
etcher with Cl2 gas that reached to the sapphire substrate and
exposed the AlN buﬀer layer for the CLO process. Then,
the LED wafer was immersed in a hot 2.2M KOH solution
(80) for a 5-min lateral wet etching process that occurred at
the sacriﬁcial AlN buﬀer layer. A lateral wet etching process
on the AlN buﬀer layer and a bottom-up N-face crystal-
lographic etching process to form the pyramidal N-face GaN
structure occurred during the CLO process. The geometric
morphology of these LED structures was observed through
a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and the optical
properties of the samples were measured on micro-photo-
luminescence (-PL) spectra, with a 5-m-diameter laser
spot size, using a 40mW, 325 nm He–Cd laser as the excited
source. The -PL spectra were characterized by an optical
spectrum analyzer (Ando-6315A).
In Fig. 1(a), a 6.8-m-thick InGaN-based LED epitaxial
layer was grown on the patterned sapphire substrate.
Truncated triangular pyramids with a 5-m-width, a 2-
m-height, and a 10-m-spacing were fabricated on the
sapphire substrate through an ICP dry etching process. After
the epitaxial growth process, the air-voids were observed at
the top of the truncated triangular pyramids on the patterned
sapphire substrate shown in Fig. 1(b). The SEM micro-
graphs of the LED samples that were immersed in a hot
KOH solution for a 3min in the CLO process are shown in
Figs. 1(c) and 1(d). The lateral etching width is measured at
about 30 m as shown in Fig. 1(c) with the lateral etching
process that occurred at the AlN buﬀer layer located at the
GaN/sapphire interface. In Fig. 1(d), the air-voids at the top
of the truncated triangular pyramids provided empty space to
increase the lateral etching rate of the sacriﬁcial AlN buﬀer
layer. The schematic of the InGaN-based LED structure and
the procedural steps are shown in Fig. 1(e). The fabrication
steps consisted of a lateral wet etching process and a bottom-
up N-face crystallographic wet etching process for the
following CLO process. The InGaN MQW active layers
were not etched or damaged during the CLO process.
Applied Physics Express 3 (2010) 031001
031001-1 # 2010 The Japan Society of Applied Physics
region caused by a higher light scattering process that occurrs
on the roughened surface at the GaN/sapphire interface.
The -PL spectra of the partially lateral-etched LED mesa
structure are measured from the mesa center to the mesa
edge at room temperature as shown in Fig. 3(b). The peak
wavelength and line width of the -PL spectra were measured
as the values of 454.7 nm (22.1 nm) and 451.8 nm (22.6 nm)
at the mesa center region and mesa edge region, respectively.
Lee et al.7) reported observing a blue shift in the EL spectral
peak wavelength with a decreasing sapphire thickness that
resulted in wafer bowing with a convex shape to balance the
stress. In Fig. 1(c), the banding LED wafer was not observed
when the AlN buﬀer layer was partially removed. At the
mesa edge region without an AlN buﬀer layer, the peak
wavelength blueshift phenomenon could be caused by the
release of a compressed strain at the GaN/sapphire interface
without any wafer bowing-induced mechanical stress.
When the LED chip was lifted oﬀ from the sapphire
substrate by an adhesive tape, the bottom epitaxial layer was
observed on the adhesive tape by an SEM micrograph as
shown in Fig. 2(a). The lift-oﬀ epitaxial layer was transferred
again by adhesive tape, so that the p-type GaN:Mg layer
could be observed on the adhesive tape for the -PL
measurement. The laser spots were focused on the center of
the p-type GaN:Mg surface of the LED chip on the sapphire
substrate and on the adhesive tape, and the -PL spectra were
measured as shown in Fig. 3(b). The peak wavelength and
line width of the -PL spectra were measured on the LED
structure at the values of 454.7 nm (22.1 nm) for the sapphire
substrate (mesa center region) and 451.8 nm (25.2 nm) for
the adhesive tape (without sapphire substrate), respectively.
After the transfer of the InGaN-based LED epitaxial layer
from the sapphire substrate to the adhesive tape, the
compressive strain between the GaN and the sapphire
substrate was fully released. The adhesive tape did not
add any stress to the lift-oﬀ LED epitaxial layer. The
peak wavelength bluehift phenomenon of the lift-oﬀ LED
epitaxial layer on the adhesive tape could be caused by a
compressed strain reduction in the InGaN active layers. A
blueshift phenomenon and a broadened line-width of the
-PL spectrum were measured for the lift-oﬀ LED epitaxial
layer similar to the one reported by Hsu et al.8) The PL peak
wavelengths are almost the same at 451.8 nm for the laterally
etched mesa region and the lift-oﬀ epitaxial layer, both
without contact with the sapphire substrate. Compared to the
LED/sapphire structure without removing the AlN buﬀer
layer, the InGaN active layer of the lift-oﬀ epitaxial layer
had a PL wavelength blueshift phenomenon and a partially
compressed strain release eﬀect.
In this paper, an InGaN-based LED structure grown on a
sapphire substrate with an AlN buﬀer layer has been lifted oﬀ
from the sapphire substrate through a CLO process. The AlN
sacriﬁcial layer and the air voids on the patterned sapphire
substrate had a higher lateral wet etching process during the
CLO process. The triangle-shaped-hole patterns, the hex-
agonal-shaped air voids, and the cone-shaped GaN structure
were observed on the lifted oﬀ surface at the bottom of
the LED structure. The free-standing lift-oﬀ InGaN-based
epitaxial layer was realized through a CLO process and has
the potential to replace the traditional laser lift-oﬀ process for
vertical InGaN-based LED structure applications.
Acknowledgments The authors gratefully acknowledge the ﬁnancial
support for this research from the National Science Council of Taiwan under
grant No. NSC 98-2221-E-005-007-MY3 and No. NSC98-2622-E-005-009-
CC3, and under the Ministry of Economic Aﬀairs contract No. 97-EC-17-
A-07-SI-097.
1) H. Goto, S. W. Lee, H. J. Lee, H.-J. Lee, J. S. Ha, M. W. Cho, and T.
Yao: Phys. Status Solidi C 5 (2008) 1659.
2) D. J. Rogers, F. Hosseini Teherani, A. Ougazzaden, S. Gautier, L.
Divay, A. Lusson, O. Durand, F. Wyczisk, G. Garry, T. Monteiro,
M. R. Correira, M. Peres, A. Neves, D. McGrouther, J. N. Chapman,
and M. Razeghi: Appl. Phys. Lett. 91 (2007) 071120.
3) J. Park, K. M. Song, S. R. Jeon, J. H. Baek, and S. W. Ryu: Appl.
Phys. Lett. 94 (2009) 221907.
4) J. S. Ha, S. W. Lee, H. J. Lee, H. J. Lee, S. H. Lee, H. Goto, T. Kato,
K. Fujii, M. W. Cho, and T. Yao: IEEE Photonics Technol. Lett. 20
(2008) 175.
5) Y. S. Wu, J. H. Cheng, W. C. Peng, and H. Ouyang: Appl. Phys. Lett.
90 (2007) 251110.
6) D. S. Wuu, W. K. Wang, K. S. Wen, S. C. Huang, S. H. Lin, S. Y.
Huang, C. F. Lin, and R. H. Horng: Appl. Phys. Lett. 89 (2006) 161105.
7) J. H. Lee, N. S. Kim, D. Y. Lee, and J. H. Lee: IEEE Photonics
Technol. Lett. 21 (2009) 1151.
8) S. C. Hsu, B. J. Pong, W. H. Li, T. E. Beechem, S. Graham, and C. Y.
Liu: Appl. Phys. Lett. 91 (2007) 251114.
(a)
(b)
Fig. 3. (a) The peak wavelength and intensity of the PL spectra across
the 100-m-width mesa region are measured. (b) The -PL spectra of the
partial laterally etched LED mesa structure are measured from the mesa
center to the mesa edge at room temperature. The PL spectra of the lift-
off epitaxial layer are also measured at the mesa center region.
C.-F. Lin et al.Appl. Phys. Express 3 (2010) 031001
031001-3 # 2010 The Japan Society of Applied Physics
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林佳鋒 計畫編號：98-2622-E-005-009-CC3 
計畫名稱：高取光效率之氮化銦鎵晶片技術開發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100% 
中華民國發明專
利申請：具蝕刻通
道的磊晶結構及
其製造方法，申請
案號：99119915 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 4 100%  
 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100% 
碩士人力：黃琬淳
碩士畢業，目前就
讀中興材料所博
士班一年級 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
