 2
 
EXPERIMENTAL STUDIES OF REINFORCED CONCRETE BRIDGE 
COLUMNS UNDER AXIAL LOAD PLUS BIAXIAL BENDING 
 
SHUENN-YIH CHANG1 
 
Keywords: biaxial tests, bridge tests, concrete columns, dynamic responses, bridge design 
 
ABSTRACT 
 The pseudodynamic testing of two reinforced concrete bridge columns with a reduced scale of 
52 /  was performed to obtain their seismic responses to near-fault ground motions. An identical 
column was also cyclically tested under constant axial load plus biaxial bending to obtain the basic 
properties of these bridge columns. Biaxial hysteretic loops from both tests show significant 
stiffness and strength degradations and pinching effect. This attested to the difficulty in developing 
a mathematical model to realistically capture the load-displacement relation for a reinforced 
concrete column. The distinct characteristics of round corners and negative stiffness were found in 
biaxial hysteretic loops obtained from pseudodynamic tests. The scatter plots of pseudodynamic test 
results also show that the orientations of the resultant flexural moments do not bias in any direction. 
Thus, this aspect might be considered in the seismic design of a column. Since pseudodynamic 
results are believed to be more accurate than numerical solutions they can be treated as reference 
solutions in developing a finite element model. Meanwhile, the hysteretic response obtained from 
cyclic loading test may be used to match a mathematical model to mimic the very complicated 
load-displacement relation for analysis. The biaxial hysteretic loops show during unloading more 
stiffness degradation and pinching than the uniaxial hysteretic loops for both cyclic loading and 
pseudodynamic tests. This behavior indicates that damage caused in one direction weakens the 
seismic resistance in the other direction. 
                                                 
1  Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology, NTUT Box 2653, No. 1, 
Section 3, Jungshiau East Road, Daan Chiu, Taipei 106-08, Taiwan, Republic of China. Tel: 886-2-2771-2171 ext 
2653, Fax: 886-2-2781-4518 and E-mail: changsy@ntut.edu.tw. 
 4
axial load. In this work, three identical reinforced concrete bridge columns were cast. One column 
was tested under reversed cyclic loading in order to obtain the basic properties of all test columns. 
The two other columns, on the other hand, were tested pseudodynamically so that seismic responses 
and hysteretic loops of the reinforced concrete bridge columns under near-fault ground motions 
could be achieved. The failure type of these columns was determined by comparing test results to 
analytical evaluations, and by experimental observations. Characteristics of the very complicated 
hysteretic loops obtained from pseudodynamic tests are discussed and the need for developing an 
appropriate biaxial hysteresis model for three-dimensional analysis of reinforced concrete bridge 
structures is recommended. Test results were also used to confirm the reliability of the ACI code for 
the strength evaluations. In addition, this investigation will help understand the seismic response of 
a reinforced concrete bridge column that is designed according to the updated version of the Taiwan 
Bridge Design Code (1995). Finally, these test results of biaxial bending are compared to those of 
uniaxial bending tested previously (Chang et al. 2004). 
 
SPECIMENS 
 Three identical reinforced concrete bridge columns with a scale of 40% were fabricated. The 
design of the specimens conformed to 1995 Taiwan Bridge Design Code, and is a standard design 
for the Taiwan Highway Bureau. The concrete had a design compressive strength of 21 MPa  at 28 
days. The longitudinal reinforcement was made up of 32 No.6 (19 mm  diameter) steel bars with a 
design yielding strength of 420 yf MPa= . These steel bars were evenly distributed on all faces 
and throughout the height of the column, which had a concrete cover of 25 mm . The transverse 
reinforcement consisted of No. 3 (10 mm  diameter) stirrups with a design yielding strength of 
280 yf MPa=  at a vertical spacing of mm 100 . In addition, there are five confining crossties. The 
anchorage of the hoops and crossties at their two ends are 090  and 0135 , respectively. Design 
details of the test columns are shown in Figure 1. These design details lead to a longitudinal 
reinforcement ratio of 1.95% and a transverse reinforcement ratio of 1.04%.  
 
 Concrete cylinders were tested to determine the concrete strength of the specimens. The actual 
compressive concrete strength was 25 MPa  at 28 days. The yield strength of the longitudinal and 
 6
and v , respectively, and the symbols xr  and yr  are used to represent the corresponding restoring 
forces, respectively. In addition, xl = the initial length of the actuator acting on the x-axis, yl = the 
initial length of the actuator acting on the y-axis; xl∆ = the actuator movement acting on the x-axis, 
yl∆ = the actuator movement acting on the y-axis; xs = the force measured by the actuator acting on 
the x-axis, ys = the force measured by the actuator acting on the y-axis; H =  the height of the 
bridge column, 3250 mm ; 0L = the initial length of each pretension rod, 4050 mm . Based on these 
notations, some other related quantities can be further computed, such as ( )1 2 2 0tan /u v Lα −= + , 
( )1tan /u vβ −= , ( )( )1tan /x xv l uθ −= +  and ( )( )1tan /y yu l vθ −= + . It is worthwhile to note that 
the displacements u  and v  are not equal to the actuator movements xl∆  and yl∆ , respectively, 
after the specimen deforms. In fact, they are correlated by the following relationships 
 
 
( )
( )
2 2
2 2
x x x
y y y
l l u v l
l l v u l
∆ = + + −
∆ = + + −
......................................................(1) 
 
where the actual actuator movements xl∆  and yl∆  can be read from the internal displacement 
transducers of the actuators.  
 
 In the cyclic loading test, the displacements u  and v  for each test level, are prescribed 
before the test and thus the actual actuator movements xl∆  and yl∆  can be computed by using 
equation (1). Similarly, in performing a pseudodynamic test, equation (1) is also used to calculate 
the actual actuator movements xl∆  and yl∆  for each time step after the desired displacements u  
and v  are numerically determined from a step-by-step integration method. Finally, the restoring 
forces, xr  and yr , actually developed by the specimen for both the cyclic loading test and the 
pseudodynamic tests can be calculated by 
 
 
cos sin sin sin
cos sin sin cos
x x x y y
y y y x x
r s s P
r s s P
θ θ α β
θ θ α β
= + −
= + −
..............................................(2) 
 
where P =  applied axial load (i.e., the sum of the axial loads applied by the four pretension rods).  
 8
loading sequences of the column for both the x- and y-axes are shown in Table 1. In this table, the 
drift ratio for both axes is determined from the ratio of the imposed displacement over the height of 
the bridge column, 3250 mm . Two displacement cycles were performed for each test level, such as 
cycle number 1 and 2 for the first test level. It has been found that the constant ratio of the imposed 
displacement in the x-axis over that in the y-axis is 1.25 for each test level. This implies that the 
specimen was subjected to bending about a section diagonal as shown in Figure 4. Bending for this 
case is about an axis defined by the angle θ  with respect to x-axis.  
 
 A plastic hinge was formed near the bottom region of Specimen A during the test. However, 
there was no significant diagonal shear crack on the column at the end of the test. Thus, it is clear 
that the failure mode of this specimen should be classified as a flexural failure. Figure 5 shows the 
condition at the base of the column under the cyclic loading test. It is clear from the photo that a 
number of the longitudinal bars buckled under the cyclic load, which resulted in fracture of one of 
the corner bars. It is also clear that buckling of the longitudinal bars is due to adequate restraint by 
the transverse ties. It is manifested from Figures (6-a) and (6-b) that the specimen only had a very 
small range of linear load-displacement relationship since flexural cracks were first found at the 
drift ratio of 0.5%. The rupture of a longitudinal steel bar can be identified from the hysteretic loops 
of each plot where a sudden drop in the load is observed within the marked circular area. In addition, 
the gradual stiffness degradation can be seen in the hysteretic loops for the different drift ratios. 
Pinching of the hysteretic loops was manifested from both plots for large drift ratios although the 
specimen was a well-designed reinforced concrete bridge column. 
 
 The yield displacements of the column for both x- and y-axes are defined as the displacements 
corresponding to the yield of a longitudinal steel bar in the following computations. Strain gauge 
measurements reveal that the longitudinal steel bar at the corner A was firstly yielded and the yield 
displacements of 31.9yu =  and 25.6 yv mm= , which were shown by solid circles in Figure 6, are 
found for the x- and y-axes, respectively. The yield displacements are employed to determine the 
displacement ductility. Furthermore, the moments corresponding to these yield displacements are 
defined as yield moments and are found to be 918yyM =  and 548yxM = kN m− . The flexural 
 10
neglected the ratio is found to be ( )/ / 1.25 /y x x y x yM M k u k v k k= = , where xk  and yk  are the 
flexural stiffnesses in the x-axis and y-axis, respectively. Thus, the ratio depends on the nonlinearity 
of flexural stiffness for both axes. In general, the ratio is unaffected by the second-order effect if the 
imposed displacement is small while for a large displacement it should be considered. Therefore, it 
is interesting to view the scatter plots of the actual moments from testing and it is shown in Figure 7. 
For comparison, the interaction curve of the column overstrength plastic moment capacity predicted 
by ACI 318 code together with AASHTO 2002 and the interaction curve of yield moment estimated 
from the moment-curvature analysis for Specimen A under an axial load of 680 kN  plus biaxial 
bending are also plotted in this figure by a solid line and a dashed line, respectively.  
 
 Figure 7 shows that experimental data are clustered in a narrow band. The straight line is the 
linear curve fitting result for the data, and thus the direction of the line also represents the average 
orientation of the resultant moment of yM  and xM , and is ( )1 0tan / 63.7y xM Mθ −= = . All data 
fall inside the interaction curve of the column overstrength plastic moment capacity predicted by 
the ACI 318 code together with AASHTO 2002 and some data are close to the interaction curve. 
This indicates that the ACI 318 code together with AASHTO 2002, including the load contour 
method, can provide a reliable estimation of the column overstrength plastic moment capacity at 
least for the test column. The column overstrength plastic moment capacity predicted by the ACI 
318 code together with AASHTO 2002 for the column can be determined from the interaction curve 
by assuming that the orientation of the resultant moment of pyM  and pxM  is equal to that of the 
maximum flexural moment of max, yM  and max,xM . As a result, the orientation of both resultant 
moments is found to be 062.7θ = . Thus, 1588pyM =  and 804 pxM kN m= −  can be determined 
from the interaction curve for 062.7θ =  and this data is indicated in Figure 7 by a hollow circle. It 
is clear that the maximum flexural moments of max, 1508yM =  and max, 780xM = kN m−  from the 
testing are consistent with the column overstrength plastic moment capacities predicted by ACI 318 
code together with AASHTO 2002. On the other hand, the nominal shear strength for the x-axis is 
found to be 850 nxV kN=  and that for the y-axis is found to be 822 nyV kN=  if using the equation 
proposed by Aschheim and Moehle (1992). It is apparent that the maximum lateral forces of 
max, 439xF =  and max, 225yF =  kN  are far less than the nominal shear strengths of 850nxV =  and 
 12
line of equation (5) is replaced by ( )yh'ccsh f/fah.A 120=  in AASHTO 2002. It has been found 
that the transverse reinforcement used in the tested columns satisfy Taiwan Bridge Design Code but 
not AASHTO 2002 in the second line of equation (5). In fact, the transverse reinforcement used for 
lateral confinement is insufficient to satisfy the requirement of ( )yh'ccsh f/fah.A 120=  for both the 
strong and weak axes. This insufficient confinement may cause the break-off of stirrups during the 
cyclic loading test as shown in Figure 5. Therefore, this requirement implies that a better ductility 
may be achieved if using the design details of AASHTO 2002 for reinforced concrete for seismic 
performance categories C and D. 
 
PSEUDODYNAMIC TEST 
 In the pseudodynamic test, the specimen was idealized as a discrete-parameter model first, and 
consequently the reliability of the test results relied highly on the realism of the idealized test model. 
In general, the dead load of a bridge column originates from the weight of the cap beam, girders and 
deck. Hence, it is appropriate to assume that there is a concentrated mass at the top of the bridge 
column. In order to study the seismic response to axial load plus biaxial bending, the two lateral, 
perpendicular directions along the strong and weak axes at the top level of the bridge column are 
taken as the two degrees of freedom to reflect biaxial bending. Although a bridge column is often 
subjected to an axial load generally the axial deformation is of no great interest. This is because that 
the axial deformation is small due to a relatively large axial stiffness. Thus, the seismic response in 
the axial direction is neglected herein. However, a constant axial load is still imposed upon the test 
specimen through four pretension rods so that the seismic performance of a reinforced concrete 
bridge column under axial load plus biaxial bending can be realistically studied.  
 
 In this work, the reinforced concrete bridge columns were simulated as two-degree of freedom 
systems. As a result, the set of second-order differential equations of motion for the two-degree of 
freedom system, which govern the motion of the bridge column, can be formulated as 
 
 + + =MU CU R F  ............................................................(6) 
 
 14
start of the ground acceleration record. Thus, the ground accelerations recorded from the stations of 
TCU075 and TCU102 in the Chi-Chi earthquake are selected for the seismic inputs. The ground 
acceleration and velocity for TCU075 and TCU102 both in the EW and NS directions are plotted in 
Figures 8 and 9, where the velocity-wave form is computed from the ground acceleration data 
through a baseline correction and integration process. A significant pulse-like wave in the velocity- 
wave form is identified for both TCU075 and TCU102.  
 
 Equation (6) was solved pseudodynamically for two identical specimens with different lumped 
masses subject to different near-fault ground motions. In fact, the lumped mass for Specimen B is 
taken as 27500 kg  and the strong and weak axes of this specimen are subjected to the EW and NS 
directions of the ground acceleration records of TCU075, respectively. Meanwhile, the peak ground 
acceleration in the EW direction of TCU075 is scaled to 0.8 g , and the same scale factor is also 
applied to the NS direction and it leads to a peak ground acceleration of 0.63 g . Meanwhile, the 
lumped mass for Specimen C is specified to be 68000 kg , and it is excited by TCU102, where the 
EW and NS ground acceleration records are imposed upon the strong and weak axes of the column, 
respectively. The peak ground accelerations in the EW and NS directions of TCU102 are scaled to 
0.5 and 0.28 g , respectively. The use of different masses for Specimen B and C is proposed to have 
different structural periods although an axial load of 680kN  is applied by four pretension rods for 
both columns. Meanwhile, it was estimated by the IDARC program (Reinhorn et al. 1998) that the 
peak ground acceleration of 0.8 g  for TCU075 and that of 0.5 g  for TCU102 are the maximum 
earthquake inputs that will not collapse the columns. The step-by-step integration was carried on by 
the Newmark explicit method (Newmark 1959) with 0.005t∆ = sec . The rate of loading imposed 
upon the specimen was taken as 0.5 /mm sec  in performing the pseudodynamic tests.  
 
Specimen B 
 Figure 10 shows the pseudodynamic test results of Specimen B. In addition, the scatter plot of 
the flexural moment from pseudodynamic testing is also shown in Figure 11. It can be found from 
Figures (10-a) and (10-b) that the maximum values of the displacement and lateral force in the 
x-axis were 88.3 mm  and 533 kN  at the time of 14.745 t sec= . The maximum flexural moment 
 16
displacement ductility is less than the available ductility determined from the cyclic load test. All of 
these evidences imply minor damage of the test column.  
 
Specimen C 
 Pseudodynamic results of Specimen C are shown in Figure 13. In addition, Figure 14 shows 
the scatter plots of flexural moments from testing. In Figure 14, it is found that some data close to 
2P , which had the same orientation of the maximum resultant moment of Specimen A (
062.7θ = ), 
almost reached the interaction curve of column overstrength plastic moment capacity. Whereas, the 
data points of 1P  and 3P , which might be considered as the test results of uniaxial bending, still 
had a large range to reach the interaction curve of column overstrength plastic moment capacity. 
The information of the three data points is listed in Table 4 for subsequent discussions. Although 
the significant pulse-like waves, which have peak ground velocities at the time about 17.0t = sec  
for both EW and NS directions as shown in Figures (9-b) and (9-d), did not introduce a maximum 
displacement in the x-axis, a maximum displacement of 117.2 mm  was found in the y-axis at the 
time of 14.91t = sec . Significant strength degradation was found from Figure (13-d) in developing 
the maximum displacement in the y-axis during the time interval of 12 16 t sec≤ ≤ . Figure (13-a) 
or Table 4 reveals that the maximum displacement in the x-axis was 91.9 mm  and occurred at the 
time of 28.295 t sec= . Table 4 shows that the maximum displacement in a section diagonal also 
occurred about this time. This might be explained next. Although the specimen can survive from the 
significant pulse-like wave during the time interval of 12 16t≤ ≤ sec  it experienced a significant 
damage due to the stiffness and strength degradations. Thus, the velocity pulse near the time of 
28.30 t sec=  led to a maximum displacement in the x-axis and a section diagonal. Table 4 reveals 
that the maximum ductility experienced in this test is 2.50, 2.57 and 2.56 for bending about x-axis, 
a section diagonal and the y-axis, respectively. The lateral forces are far less than the nominal shear 
strength and flexural moments are less than the column overstrength plastic moment capacities.  
 
 Figure 14 reveals that more data of Specimen C fall outside the interaction curve of yield 
moment when compared to Specimen B although they all fall inside the interaction curve of column 
overstrength plastic moment capacity. It was found that Specimen C was not collapsed at the end of 
 18
pseudodynamic test. For this purpose, the displacement and load paths for Specimens A, B and C 
are shown in Figure 18. Figure (18-a) reveal that a linear displacement path, which corresponds to a 
linear load path, is performed for Specimen A. Hence, sharp corners are expected in the hysteretic 
loops. This prediction is confirmed by Figures (6-a) and (6-b). On the other hand, both narrow and 
wide elliptical displacement paths are found in Figures (18-c) and (18-e), which correspond to both 
narrow and wide elliptical load paths as shown in Figures (18-d) and (18-f). Although the number 
of narrow elliptical load paths seems to be greater than that of the wide elliptical load paths the 
characteristics of round corners and negative stiffness still need further study to evaluate their 
influences in the seismic responses of reinforced concrete structures. As a summary, the distinct 
properties of biaxial hysteretic loops are round corners and negative stiffness near the time instants 
of unloading when compared to uniaxial hysteretic loops.  
 
UNIAXIAL BENDING VERSUS BIAXIAL BENDING 
 A test program similar to that conducted in this study was previously carried out to study the 
uniaxial bending-axial load behavior (Chang et al. 2004). Thus, it would be of interest to compare 
the seismic performances of the reinforced concrete bridge columns subject to biaxial bending to 
those under uniaxial bending. Test specimens for the study of uniaxial bending were fabricated 
identical to those reported in this work. However, the actual yield strengths of the longitudinal and 
transverse reinforcements were 500 and 350 MPa  and the compressive strength of concrete was 
23 MPa  at 28 days. These are lower than those of the columns of this study. For convenience, the 
three columns tested in the previous study are denoted as Specimens A, B and C in correspondent to 
Specimens A, B and C tested in this study.  
 
Comparisons of Cyclic Loading Test Results 
 Cyclic loading test results of Specimen A are plotted in Figure 19. The loading sequence for 
this test is exactly the same as that for the strong axis of Specimen A. For comparison, the cyclic 
loading test results of the strong axis of Specimen A are also superimposed in this figure. Besides, 
some critical data for the test results of the strong axis of Specimen A and Specimen A are listed in 
Table 5. In Figure (19), there seems no significant difference between the two hysteretic responses. 
 20
acceleration of 0.7 g  in the pseudodynamic testing, the peak ground accelerations of TCU102-EW 
and TCU102-NS for the pseudodynamic testing of Specimen C were reduced to 0.5 g and 0.28 g , 
respectively, for no collapse of the specimen. Due to different peak ground accelerations applied to 
the pseudodynamic tests, it is very difficult to draw any conclusion of biaxial bending in contrast to 
uniaxial bending for the two specimens. However, the failure of Specimen C immediately after the 
significant pulse-like wave confirms that a well-designed reinforced bridge column may not be able 
to entirely develop full ductility since a significant pulse-like wave may cause premature failure. It 
is also manifested from the test of Specimen C that a ductile reinforced concrete bridge column may 
still develop its ductile behavior to dissipate seismic energy although it is subjected to a near-fault 
ground motion. Consequently, the key to survive from the strike of a significant pulse-like wave is 
the strength is large enough to resist the strike and then to develop ductile behavior. 
 
 In addition to the above differences between the uniaxial and biaxial pseudodynamic testing of 
bridge columns, the scatter plots of flexural moments, as shown in Figures 11 and 14, show that the 
orientation of the resultant flexural moment did not bias in any direction although the input 
earthquake ground motions possess a predominant direction. This is because that the actual biaxial 
displacements of a column during an earthquake excitation are of a very complex nature, involving 
displacements in various directions of varying intensities. Hence, it seems that the seismic design of 
a column should base on biaxial bending without any bias in a specific direction. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 To study the very complicated behavior of reinforced concrete bridge columns under axial load 
plus biaxial bending three identical columns were cast for tests. Biaxial hysteretic loops obtained 
from the cyclic loading test exhibited the stiffness and strength degradation and significant pitching 
effects. These test results attested to the reliability of the ACI code together with AASHTO 2002 in 
predicting the column overstrength plastic moment capacity for a reinforced concrete bridge column 
under constant axial load and biaxial bending through the load contour method. A pseudodynamic 
technique was applied to obtain the near-fault responses of the reinforced concrete bridge columns 
under constant axial load plus biaxial excitations. The distinct characteristics of biaxial hysteretic 
loops are round corners and negative stiffness. In addition, scatter plots of pseudodynamic results 
 22
Chang, S.Y. (2001). “Application of the momentum equations of motion to pseudodynamic 
testing.” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, Series A, 359(1786), 1801-1827. 
Chang, S.Y. (2002). “Explicit pseudodynamic algorithm with unconditional stability.” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, 128(9), 935-947. 
Chang, S.Y., Li, Y.F. and Loh, C.H., (2004). “Experimental study of seismic bhaviors of a-bilt and 
repaired reinforced concrete bridge columns,” Journal of Bridge Engineering, ASCE, 9(4), 
391-402. 
Hong, H.P. (2001). “Strength of slender reinforced concrete columns under biaxial bending.” 
Journal of Structural Engineering, ASCE, 127(7), 758-762. 
Hoshikuma, J., Kwashima, K.,  Nagaya, K., and Taylor, A.W. (1997). “Stress-strain model for 
confined reinforced concrete in bridge piers,” Journal of Structural Engineering, ASCE, 
123(5), 624-633. 
Hsu, C.T. (1988). “Analysis and design of square and rectangular columns by equation of failure 
surface.” ACI Structural Journal, 85(2), 167-179. 
Newmark, N.M. (1959). “A method of computation for structural dynamics.” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics Division, ASCE, 85, 67-94. 
Pannell, F.N. (1963). “Failure surfaces for members in compression and biaxial bending.” Journal 
of ACI, 60(1), 129-140. 
Parme, A.L., Nieves, J.M., and Gouwens, A. (1966). “Capacity of reinforced rectangular columns 
subjected to biaxial bending.” Journal of ACI, 63(9), 911-923. 
Priestley, M.J.N., Seible, F., and Calvi, G.M. (1996). Seismic Design and Retrofitting of Bridges, 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York. 
Qiu, F., Li, W., Pan, P., and Qian, J. (2002). “Experimental tests on reinforced concrete columns 
under biaxial quasi-static loading.” Engineering Structures, 24(4), 419-428. 
Reinhorn, A.M., Simeonov, V., Mylonakis, G., and Reichman, Y. (1998). “IDARC-Bridge: A 
Computational Platform for Seismic Damage Assessment of Bridge Structures.” Report No. 
MCEER-98-0011, Multidisciplinary Center for Earthquake Engineering Research, State 
University of New York at Buffalo, New York. 
Rodriguez, J.A. and Aristozabal-Ochoa, J.D. (1999). “Biaxial interaction diagrams for short 
 1
行政院所屬各機關因公出國人員出國報告書 
(出國類別：美國) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007美國機械工程學會壓力容器及管路會議暨第八
屆增溫下之潛變及疲勞國際會議 
 
2007 ASME Pressure Vessels & Piping Conference and 
the Eighth International Conference on Creep and 
Fatigue at Elevated Temperatures 
 
 
 
 
 服務機關：國立台北科技大學 
  
 
 服務機關：國立台北科技大學 
 出國人 職    稱：教授兼系主任 
  姓    名：張順益 
 
 
 
 出國地點：美國，聖安東尼奧(San Antonio, U.S.A.) 
 出國期間：民國九十六年七月二十二日至二十六日 
 報告日期：民國九十六年八月五日 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3
更進而激發出新的研究題材或方向。 
 
 2007 美國機械工程學會壓力容器及管路會議自七月二十二日到
七月二十六日美國(U.S.A.)德州(Texas)之聖安東尼奧市(San Antonio)
舉行，會期共五天。本次的會議超過 170 個場次，所有的論文皆以
口頭發表的方式進行，國內有多位學者參加此次的會議。 
 
二、會議過程： 
 
 本次會議於七月二十二日辦理報到揭開序幕。並於七月二十三
日上午舉行歡迎會和開幕式，並隨即進行了上午的專題演講以及論
文的發表及討論。這次活動內容除了最主要的論文發表之外，大會
還安排有學生的論文競賽以及講習會，最後並將所有與會的論文集
合成兩片光碟片，以便對外提供參考之用。 
 
三、與會心得 
 
 由於這一研討會的場次非常眾多，因此會有相當多的演講同時
進行。由於專長及興趣的關係，大部份的時間都參與 (Seismic 
Engineering)及 (Emerging Technologies for Fluids, Structures and 
Fluid-Structure Interactions)等專題的聽講和討論。本人在此次會議中
所發表的論文題為  “Improved Explicit Method for Time History 
Analysis”。在此次的會議中，經由聽講及討論的過程吸收了不少新
的研究訊息。 
