 1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
以文化為核心的創意產業模式建構(III)  
A Study on the Model of Culture-Based Creative Industries (III) 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC-98-2221-E-224-027 
執 行 期 限：98 年 08 月 01 日至 99 年 10 月 31 日 
主 持 人：何明泉   雲林科技大學工業設計系 
計畫參與人員：楊彩玲、楊琇惠、李盈瑩   雲林科技大學設計研究所
一、中文摘要 
本研究透過文獻探討、產業觀察、個案研究及專家訪談，建立理論架構雛形。其中定
義「以文化為核心之創意產業模式」之三大構面。資源面為文化元素所構成，包括自然文
化、社會文化、人文化成、心靈化成等四種文化元素；操作面定義為：多 P 的操作策略；
產出面定義為人、事、時、地、物、知識等 5W1H 之產出。此三構面建構的創意產業，形
成多重路徑的網絡結構原型。 
在本計畫中，以此多重路徑的網絡結構原型為發展基礎，透過實地訪查之個案比較分
析，逐步修正以建立文化為核心的創意產業模式完整架構；並探討影響模式運作的相關因
素及構成元素，及各關鍵節點的擺盪原因與成敗要素之互動關係，據此發展出完整之模式
建構與評價指標。 
資源面之文化元素評價指標定義為「文化元素六維度分析架構」，並區分為靜態三維：
文化廣度、文化深度及文化高度，動態三維：移動方向、變化速度、變化型式。此六維乃
由「文化評價公式」之豐富性、獨特性及文化資本修正而得。據此六維度分析架構，可評
價文化元素之產業發展潛力，進而獲得此模式之關鍵發展要素。在價值操作層次上，可區
分為基本價值、擴增價值、外延價值、期望價值、潛在價值等向度，根據價值傾向可整合
探討以文化為核心之創意產業經濟發展議題，進而建構出發展設計操作模式。 
關鍵詞：創意產業、文化設計、價值創造 
Abstract 
This study, based upon literature review, industry observation and specialist 
interview, firstly establish a basic framework for further investigation. The 
culture-based creative industry model is composed of the resource, operation and 
production dimensions. Further, with the multi-path network prototype, more 
comprehensive studies of the relevant factors are conducted to test their effects 
on the model. Among them, the resource evaluation has the culture width, depth and 
height as well as the moving direction, changing speed and changing type as the 
indicators. The culture evaluations are based upon the richness, uniqueness and 
culture capital. On the value generation level, there are basic, expansion, extension, 
expectation and hidden value aspects. With these value aspects, an integrated 
operation model is proposed for the economic development of creative industry 
Keywords: creative industries, cultural design, value creation 
 3 
價操作構面圖稍作修改。並從海洋文化元素 中取潮汐、黑潮發展。 
 
圖2. 五價操作構面綜合性概念示意圖-調整後 
表3. 海島文化元素-潮汐 
潮
汐
形
成 
潮汐是地球上的海洋表面受到太陽和月球的潮汐力作用引起的漲落現
象。潮汐造成海洋和港灣口積水深度的改變，並且形成震盪的潮汐流，因
此製作沿海地區潮汐流的預測在航海上是很重要的。在漲潮時會埋在海水
中，而在退潮時會裸露出來的潮間帶，是潮汐造成的重要海洋生態。 
潮汐的變化位置與月球、太陽和月球的相對位置有關，並且會與地球自轉
的效應耦合和海洋的海水深度、大湖及河口。潮汐現象除了發生在海洋之
外，也會在其它引力場的時間和空間系統內發生。 
在每天的海平面變化，特別是在淺海和港灣實際發生的，不僅受到天文的
潮汐力的影響，還會受到氣象（風和氣壓）的強烈影響，例如風暴潮。 
生
態 
招潮蟹、彈塗魚、紅樹林 
招潮蟹和彈塗魚（以及捕食他們的鳥類）的生活節奏受到潮汐的影響；人
們到紅樹林做觀察的時間也受到潮汐的影響。 
潮
汐
能 
潮汐的起源，來自地球與月亮、太陽的相對運動，它們之間有重力
（gravitational force）的彼此交互作用，週期性的水位變化與潮汐水流，是
受到月亮與太陽的重力吸引所致。由於月亮與太陽的吸引產生的潮汐力量
（tidal forces），結合地球的轉動，形成了潮汐現象，因此潮汐能可說是
取之不竭的再生能源（renewable energy source）。潮汐發電就利用這個現
象的水位升降來發電，潮汐愈強，即水位越高或水流速度（current velocity）
愈大，產生潮汐能就愈強。潮汐能發電可以分成三種方式： 
1. 潮汐流 （Tidal stream）系統：它是利用潮汐中，水流的動能來推動渦
輪機，就如流動的風，推動風車磨坊一般，其原理與風力發電相同。 
2. 攔水堤壩（Barrage）：將海灣或河口與海洋隔開構成水庫，再在壩內或
壩房安裝水輪發電機組，然後利用潮汐漲落時海水位的升降，使海水通過
輪機，轉動水輪發電機組發電，其原理與水力發電相同。但它需要非常高
價的建設費用，而且對生態環境衝擊較大。 
3. 潮汐瀉湖（Tidal lagoon）：類似攔水堤壩，但建造費用不那麼高，不用
橫跨整個河口，其建構成本較低，且對環境衝擊較小。 
潮
汐
特
性 
關
鍵
字 
流動、翻滾、滯水、憩潮、滿潮、乾潮、轉向 
“意象”神秘、氣泡、光度 
 5 
分高，但是表層100公尺的黑潮水，幾乎沒有營養鹽及懸浮顆粒，為一
純淨度極高的鹽水。陽光射入黑潮水後，逐漸被水吸收。經散射或反
射回水面的光線極少，所以黑潮看來是黑色的。台灣沿岸海水及親潮
水中的浮游生物及懸浮顆粒都很多，反射回水面的陽光較多，所以看
起來比較明亮，而且水呈綠色。 
魚群 曼波魚、吻仔魚及許多迴游性魚類 
關鍵
字 
沉穩、開闊、包容、食物的交換行為、討海人作息、山海為作息、海
水顏色變化、海洋文化日誌 
原民的創作－不單從純文學，更多了使用海洋神話傳說的譬喻 
翻車魚相關生態文化 
正反翻為不同色、象徵黑潮洋流交會 
表6. 以海洋文化為核心，黑潮為元素套用「文化元素-五價操作構面」 
經濟 溫暖洋流、黑
潮流域回劉
性魚群、將海
洋深層水帶
至表面 
漁獲、發電、海
洋深層水相關
產品 
漁業相關產
品的販售、推
廣、宣傳 
黑潮洋流
帶來的觀
光體驗 
鮪魚季等 
休閒漁業 
如何”共存” 
政治 黑潮經過地
理位置 
洋流發電(台灣
具地理優勢) 
黑潮議定書
(台灣的二氧
化碳排放及
環境保護) 
黑潮觀光
季主持、代
言及舉辦 
開闊、包容性 
社會 黑潮行經路
線與原住
民、祖先等遷
徙路線相關 
黑潮集(文學商
品) 
 
從黑潮帶來
的飛魚-蘭嶼
社會、性別結
構 
習俗帶來
的體驗－
招魚祭、飛
魚季、船祭 
對海的態度
是”接受”而
非”征服” 
生態 翻車魚、飛魚
等隨洋流而
來的種類、鯨
豚 
海豚時鐘(為文
字及圖象產品
以賞鯨解說員
的一天敘述在
花蓮海上及生
活中所見所思) 
海洋生態導
覽、講座、宣
傳推廣、淨灘
活動 
討海人的
生活體驗 
原民對海洋
的”感謝”精
神 
文化 台灣人探索
黑潮根源到
對自我本源
的探索 
黑潮三部曲(電
影) 
第一部 黑潮行
旅 -追尋身世
之旅 
第二部 黑潮生
息 - 討海人的
故事 
第三部 黑潮脈
動 - 海洋文化
紀錄片拍
攝、對黑潮魚
類的保育、請
願等行動 
體驗因應
海洋黑潮
的不同族
群文化 
台灣人流動
的個性，及困
境中的各種
可能性-生命
力 
 7 
 
大小潮 
漩渦/海浪 
交集 
複製 
燈飾 
 
漲退潮 
漩渦/滯水 
反轉 
大小變化 
盛裝容器 
 
海浪/漩渦/包容 大小變化 公共座椅 
海洋元素-3D單元件 海洋元素關鍵字 
 
貝殼/螺 
漸變/深淺 
單元件應用_3D模型展示 海洋元素關鍵字 應用手法 可能產品 
 
貝殼/螺 
包容/海洋深度不同 
顏色亮度不同 
陣列 
反轉 
燈罩 
喇叭外觀 
 
圍繞 
富含變化 
旋轉 
重複環列 
燈罩/文
件、書架 
 
匯流/漩渦 
聚集 
深淺變化 
環繞 
時鐘/燈 
展示架 
海洋元素-3D單元件 海洋元素關鍵字 
 
潮汐變化/海浪 
環繞 
單元件應用_3D模型展示 海洋元素關鍵字 應用手法 可能產品 
  
黑潮顏色變化 
波浪層層推進 
重複 
色彩漸變 
盛裝容器 
 
海浪層層推進 
相互交疊 
重複 
高度變化 
盛裝容器 
櫃架 
 1 
 
 
出國報告（出國類別：國際研討會） 
 
 
ISIDC- The 2
nd
 International Service 
Innovation Design Conference 
 
 
 
 
服務機關：雲林科技大學設計學院 
姓名職稱：何明泉 教授 
派赴國家：日本 
報告日期：2010/11/05 
出國時間：2010/10/17-21 
計畫編號: NSC-98-2221-E-224-027 
計畫名稱: 以文化為核心之創意產業模式研究(III) 
 
 3 
目的： 
此次研討會的目的在提供一個交流與對話的機會，共同探討現今重要服務創新設
計相關議題，並嘗試研擬未來發展之方向。尤其是在跨領域之整合，如何達到均
衡並重發現之目標。 
 
一、參加會議經過 
該次會議分 3 天舉行，每天各分 A、B、C、 等 3 場次平行進行論文發表等活動。
核心議題包括: Service , Innovation and Design 。次要議題有: Business support 
services, Childcare support services, Content services, Creativity, Design philosophy, 
Design support systems, Distribution and logistics services, Health and welfare 
services, Innovation process, Innovation support systems, Process design, Product 
service system, Service and manufacturing industry, Service and regional 
development, Service ethnography, Service evaluation, Service innovation, Service 
management, Service philosophy, Service process, Service scheme, Service science, 
Service strategy, Servicescape, Social impact of services, Tools and systems for 
service, Tourism and leisure services, User experience design, What is design。 
該次發表之論文” A Study on the Service Innovation Value of Auspicious 
Culture” 是有關吉祥文化在服務創新價值之應用，也是以文化為基礎之創意設
計，非常切合大會主題且具重要性之研究論文，被安排在第2天A場次(Values and 
Culture)發表，台灣這回共有三十一篇論文被接受發表。 
大會場地分別在兩個地方，主要是國際旅館，其中第二天在大沼公園的會議聽舉
行，環境非常優美，只可惜交通不甚方便；整體活動尚可，但在論文徵選及會議
聯繫過程中就稍有所不足，這可能是主要承辦者杉山教授人在韓國任教，與主辦
之未來大學間之連溝通連絡不易可能有關，值得借鏡。 
此次論文發表得與設計界同好分享心得外，很高興聆聽幾位專家之專題演講，獲
益良多。 
 
二、與會心得 
1. “Service design”近年來已成為國際設計界大家所關注的重要議題，值得
國內諸設計學者及業界設計專家重視。 
2. 學校設計科系所之教學內涵，宜多加入此方面之學習、研究與應用。 
3. 服務設計是進入體驗經濟的門檻，從產品（product）、過程（process）、
人員（people）到場域（place）所營造之氛圍都是關鍵因素。 
 
 
 
 
 5 
are some other important reasons that make auspicious culture favored by common 
people around the world. Unrestricted by materials, regions and time, auspicious 
culture has been passed on for generations and rapidly spread in human’s society, 
never absent in history (Lih-Dao Wang, 2008). Auspicious, mainly affirmative, always 
admires everything around the life from a viewpoint of appreciation, endows 
everything with kind-hearted nature, encourages people by means of praise, blessing, 
extolling, celebrations, etc, and brings the society an upward power. Moreover, 
auspicious image is closely connected with traditional culture. No traditional culture, 
no auspicious image. The latter reflects the former regardless of the theme. The 
distinctiveness of auspicious culture lies in its exclusive advantages.  
1.1.1 "Suiting local conditions" of auspicious culture 
Presented in symbolical “totem" of primitive tribes, auspicious culture is not only a 
mark and token of local social organizations, but also implies auspicious notions and 
beliefs.  While in a civilized society, auspicious culture integrates with arts and crafts, 
changes into a kind of folk art, and blends into people's daily life. Auspicious culture 
changes image and content as the environment and background differ, presents local 
materials, and finally generates multifarious mascots, diversified world culture as well 
as abundant auspicious culture landscapes. Auspicious culture is not restricted by 
region, and can even become a local feature.  
1.1.2 "Advancing with the times" of auspicious culture 
Each age has its own mission and people have different emphases, and this 
phenomenon is just reflected by auspicious culture. Auspicious patterns of primitive 
society, originated from a worship to the nature, feature mystique due to a 
combination with belief; In a society lacking goods, materials and populations, the 
main auspicious appeal is improving life. Therefore, “abundant wealth and social 
position” and “having lovely babies” is the most popular auspicious symbols of this 
time. In this period of wealth and prosperity, the values change, and auspicious culture 
has originality and breakthrough in traditional subjects and expression techniques. 
This old tradition is extensively used in modern design. Besides applying new styles 
into life, auspicious culture also combines with popular people, things and objects, 
and becomes a kind of image identity, e.g. Chinese Olympic Masco-FuWa, which best 
illustrates a converted application of auspicious culture. 
1.1.3   Aesthetic connotation of auspicious culture                                         
Human beings express their internal desires through auspicious culture. Such 
inmost voices can evoke people’s potential aesthetic feeling and inspire their artistic 
expressiveness.  Rich in aesthetic factors of all ages, auspicious culture 
comprehensively and broadly interprets “beauty” from shaping plan to color 
arrangement and presentational form to implicit symbol. This not only enriches its 
own connotation and beautifies common people’s life for years, but also contributes to 
future aesthetic life by its influence that combines humanistic beauty.  
1.1.4 Psychic power of auspicious culture 
Some modern Para-psychic theories highlight psychic power. The thought leads 
energy and energy follows thought. Positive thought has great power. You can see 
whatever you believe and create whatever you believe. Good things will easily befall 
if you use beliefs to create the future. Always thinking positively, auspicious culture 
uses inspiring, affirmative phrase to make belief rooted in people’s sub consciousness 
and frequently remind people in their lives. The quality of life change as people’s 
thought changes. People possessing auspicious culture are active, optimistic and 
enthusiastic, and dare to pursue their dreams. Therefore, auspicious culture is 
deep-rooted in human’s society and never fades away.  
 
 7 
2   SERVICE INNOVATION DESIGN OF AUSPICIOUS CULTURE 
As a kind of inner worldly belief, auspicious culture has traits that benefit design 
innovation and presentations that provide more developing space for design. Social 
values are reflected in tradition. People project their thoughts and ideas onto 
auspicious culture, and apply the entire-people-accepted auspicious vocabulary into 
service transmission; the naturally resulted feeling of safety will benefit mutual 
communications and understanding and make the design ideas smoothly transmitted. 
With existing cultural connotation, such cultural elements get out of the limitations in 
usage and the deviation in semanteme, integrate spiritual elements into modern design, 
and make design more distinctive, recognizable, cultural and contemporary. 
What are the messages that the auspicious culture bring to future design thoughts? 
Design should not be just a small product configuration but a great idea of business 
strategy. However, when we concentrate on the value of industrial economy, design 
indeed has a meaning more important than getting profits, i.e. a close attention to 
humanity and culture. Such management ideas center on spiritual level, and make 
enterprises have perceptual thoughts while obtaining profits through the power of 
design. Such trend is more obvious in leading designers' orientation. Esslinger（2009）
believes "design aims to make man-made environment more humanistic and make 
mainstream products a kind of art; design is not only business and art but also 
humanity. “To make design more humanistic, emotion is also an important demand in 
addition to traditional design that is for ergonomics and users’ needs. Just as the 
design philosophy in his famous work “Form Follows Emotions”, design is not just 
for a differentiation between function and form, but for meeting emotional demands. 
Michael Porter（1998）, a master of competitiveness  from Harvard Business School, 
points out that competitiveness-oriented cultural perspective is what needed for 
economic development at current stage. The "attitude, belief and values" in everyday 
economic life affect economic development and industrial competitiveness, and the 
society’s emphasis on cultural value affect talents’ industrial inputs; these factors are 
quite important for overall economic development. Culture influences 
competitiveness, and cultural factor is the focus for service innovation design of 
auspicious culture. We must find the advantages of our own culture and apply them 
into economic development.  
The design ideas of auspicious culture not only emphasize on practical 
applicability but also value the sustainability of cultural inheritance. Such profound 
national culture is rich in wisdoms that govern and benefit the people. Making a good 
use of edifications from traditional culture can become a motive power for social 
development. 
2.1 Three Orientations of Service Design 
Tradition has strong power and virtually affects each member of the nation. The 
richer the cultural tradition is, the greater the influence will be. It can even become a 
necessary nutrition for people’s growth. Being such a kind of culture, auspicious 
culture accompanies people’s joy and sadness during their life time, and eases the 
worries in real life. Love and safety are human’s basic demands. Auspicious culture 
corresponds to people’s real desires and brings them happiness. Deeply rooted in 
human’s heart for years, it has bee a part of life for a long time. Due to the 
irreplaceable popularity and plasticity, auspicious culture exerts some influences on 
common people’s life. The way of its expressing feelings and transmitting thoughts 
permeates through all the people and forms a force of moralizing invisibly. Nowadays, 
the view of value is changing around the worlds. Under the appeal for cultural arousal, 
people’s perceptual thinking is awakened, and aesthetics and creativity are popular. 
Auspicious culture is local culture inherently and has a nature of truth, goodness and 
beauty; it considers practical applicability and sustainability of cultural inheritance. 
Auspicious culture should not just be discussed from the view of folklore. It is a kind 
of profound national culture. In terms of design, it is rich in wisdoms that govern and 
 9 
usable resource when human beings march toward “aesthetic economy’. 
2.1.3 Sustainable design that features perpetuating interests 
Auspicious culture implies people's thoughts and comprehensions about life. With 
a strong human-oriented concept of design, it has lasting charms and affects people 
for generations. Its gentle power penetrates among people, passes on ancestors’ values 
to the next generation, and continuously maintains experiences and sensations. In 
man-made world, auspicious culture has a particular popular and embedded-in-society 
amicability that is not available in other culture. Concerning the application into 
design, we can utilize this advantage in man-made world and create sustainable value 
of products. In the paper of "Design for (Emotional) Durability " , Jonathan Chapman
（2009）says, just like contacts between people, sustainable design should be based 
on contacts between human and objects. Modern consuming habit has changed, and 
what consumers want to buy is not just an object but a kind of feeling. Nowadays, 
consumption habit has changed. Consumers don't just purchase objects, but 
experience the feeling of purchasing. Through storytelling, auspicious culture satisfies 
people's never-changing desire, and auspicious economy based on this can develop 
sustainably. Besides, affected by expectative moods and awed feelings, people are 
dependent on products with auspicious conceptions, and this behavior is expressed in 
high usage rate and low replacement rate of products. Unbreakable belief is a 
restriction for some aspects, but a great chance for sustainable design. Moreover, in 
auspicious culture, the desire for wealth is another impetus to economic sustainability. 
The mind of pursuing wealth strengthens combativity and competitive power, and 
auspicious belief increases the owners and customers' confidence. Auspicious culture, 
which affects lots of industries, is a mode of sustainable business rather than a 
business trick, because it is effective eternally. 
2.2   Application of Auspicious Culture into Service Design  
As an infectious popular culture, auspicious culture uses polished images to 
express people’s internal desires, and utilizes people’s imaginations to extend spiritual 
field of visibility. Under certain conditions, its function of expressing emotions even 
exceeds language and characters. Applying auspicious aesthetics into marketing and 
business service can not only increase the pleasures during customers’ consumption 
and promote the aesthetics and quality of overall service, but also construct social 
image for manufacturers and bring a warm flow to business intent on nothing but 
profit. For the view of life and value in today’s society, the importance of 
“appearance” and “feeling” has been far beyond our imagination. The added value of 
auspicious culture will be a focus of service innovation design in the future age of 
aesthetic economy.  
The application of auspicious culture into service design focuses on customers’ 
psychological perceptions. The key to success is the perceptual service, which centers 
on improving customers’ satisfaction and evaluations, promoting the connections 
between consumption and emotion, developing the value of auspicious aesthetics, and 
achieving sustainable development economically and culturally. In terms of current 
consuming environment, the two mainstreams of service economy and experience 
economy both highlight mental satisfaction, and this is the best time for applying 
auspicious culture into service design.  
2.2.1 Application of auspicious aesthetics into service economy 
“Applying auspicious culture that causes cultural and mental resonance into 
service design” can strengthen customers’ good impression of consumption and make 
service process more satisfactory and impressed. For example, in financial industry 
that pursues wealth, owners can create auspicious context in the space or use 
auspicious symbols to increase the attraction of goods, so as to bring customers 
mental satisfaction and make them get luck in making money while receiving service 
 11 
featuring story, interest and fun can enhance achievement sense of personal 
participation. Everyone has curiosity. Auspicious aesthetics possess eternal mystique. 
Such wonderful experience service moves customers’ heart and is unforgettable in 
their life. For example, experience of thematic auspicious activities like launching sky 
lanterns, writing spring scrolls, auspicious objects DIY, interpreting auspicious codes 
(Figure 4,5); or a travel of exploring auspicious culture and a plan for an experiencing 
journey rich in auspicious culture conceptions such as meditation, yoga, SPA, all 
combining vacation with leisure and making consumers feel like being in sacred space 
and experiencing an integration of body, heart and spirit (Figure 6). These are 
business chances for applying auspicious culture into experience economy.  
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: self-made sky 
lanterns for praying for 
blessings 
Figure 5: writing 
spring scrolls 
Figure 6: yoga and 
meditation 
3   CONCLUSIONS 
As the new century comes, an Aquarian Age also begins. Western astrology 
indicates that the future is an age valuing inherent exploration and spiritual growth, 
and this trend can remedy current defect of overemphasizing science so as to more 
suit human's needs. Therefore, a human-centered model is being constructed, and the 
focuses change from substantial, obvious values into spitritual, mental values that are 
not so substance-oriented (Yrjo Sotamaa, 2009). Luckily, we can find out wisdom 
corresponding to future life from our familiar traditional auspicious culture, and 
obtain brand-new enlightenment during the exploring process In this period 
emphasizing "cultural productivity", the effects of auspicous culture products on life 
mode, values and symbolization are much greater than their own contributions. 
Chances of innovation depend on man-induced factors, and an introduction of design 
power is the best way for the evolution  of auspicous culture, as long as we provide 
innovative energy continuously.  
Design aims at serving common people, i.e. making people lead a more perfect and 
all-around life.  In this age when cultural creativity takes the lead, improving service 
quality through auspicious culture can better show the competitive advantages of 
service industry. Auspicious culture, which is applied to service design through design 
transformation, can meet perceptual demands, and increase the interactions between 
others and self, man and man as well as man and culture. It is the best example of 
combining culture with design, and will certainly receive unprecedented attention in 
future age of aesthetic economy. The application of auspicious culture into service 
design confirms to current demands for perceptual life. We hope that future service 
innovation design can not only enhance service quality but also become a power for 
purifying people’s soul and create fortunate life as well as harmonious society. This is 
the ultimate goal of applying auspicious culture into service design, and the direction 
of our making efforts.  
 13 
22. Maslow, A. A Theory of Human Motivation. Psychological Review, 50, pp.370-396, 
1943.  
23. Maslow, A.  Motivation and Personality, Harper, New York, 1954.  
24. Norman, Donald A. Emotional Design: Why We Love (or Hate) Everyday Things. 
Basic Books, New York, 2003. 
25. Osborne, H. The Cultivation of Sensibility in Art Education. Journal of Philosophy of 
Education, 18, pp.31-40, 1984. 
26. Osbon, Diane K. A Joseph Campbell Companion: Reflections on the Art of Living. 
Harper Perennial, New York, 1995. 
27. Pine, B. Joseph II and Gilmore, James H. The Experience Economy. Harvard Business 
School Press, Boston, 1999.  
28. Porter, Michael E. Competitive Advantage of Nations, Free Press, 1998. 
29. Randman, Michael. Philosophische Anthropologie. Shanghai Translation Publishing 
House, p.228, 1988. 
30. Smith, R. A.  Problem for a Philosophy of Art Education. Studies in Art Education, 
33, pp.253-266, 1992. 
31. Sotamaa, Yrjo. The Kyoto Design Declaration: Building a Sustainable Future. Design 
Issue, 25, pp.51-53, 2009. 
32. Wang, Chien-Chu. From Aesthetics Inspiration to Practice of Aesthetics Education 
Ideal. National Education Research, Bimonthly, 7, pp.23-26, 1989. 
33. Wang, Lih-Dao. Chinese Traditional Images with Moral. People's Fine Arts 
Publishing House, Taipei, 2008. 
34. Zhang, Dao-Yi. Good Luck and Happiness. Echo Magazine, 120, Chinese Version, 
Taipei, 2000. 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：何明泉 計畫編號：98-2221-E-224-027- 
計畫名稱：以文化為核心的創意產業模式研究(III) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
