 I
?? 
 
    ??????????????????? Higuchi ??, ???????????
????????????.  ?? Landau??, ????????, ?????????
????????, ????????????????????????.  ?????
?, ???????????????????????????, ?????????
??????.  ??, ????????????????, ????????????
??????. 
 
???: Higuchi??, ????????, ????????, ?????, ???? 
 
 
Abstract 
     
    The Higuchi's problem for controlled released of drug from overloaded polymer matrix is 
considered, especially the effect of distribution coefficient and constant finite volume of sink is 
examined.  The moving boundary problem due to moving saturation front combined with the 
affection of sink of constant finite volume is solved numerically with the assistance of Landau 
transform.  The results reveal that the speed of moving saturation front is decreased 
considerably if the volume of polymer matrix is comparable to that of desorbing sink.  In 
addition, the higher affinity of drug for polymer matrix will also decreased the speed of moving 
saturation front. 
 
keywords: Higuchi's problem, overloaded polymer matrix, sink of constant finite volume, moving 
boundary, distribution coefficient 
  
 
 2
finite constant volume is considered.  The effects of finite volume of sink and the distribution 
coefficient of drug between these two phases are taken into account.  Fixing the boundary by 
Landau transform, the mathematical model is solved by means of finite difference method.  
Mathematically similar system can be found in Crank [11], where the absorption of material from 
a well-stirred solution of finite extent into a sheet containing immobilizing sites is considered. 
 
 
4. ???? 
 
    Referring to Figure 1, drug desorption from an overloaded planner thin polymer matrix of 
thickness l  to a sink of constant finite volume v  is considered.  The volume of sink v  is 
equal to val , where a  is the area of contact surface between polymer matrix and sink, and vl  
is the thickness of sink.  The abscissa x  originates in the contact surface between polymer 
matrix and sink and extends in positive direction into polymer matrix.  The end of polymer 
matrix, that is at lx = , denotes the symmetrical surface, or just a surface impermeable for drug.  
Only the diffusion in diffusion zone, )](,0[ txx s∈ , is considered, where )(txs  is the position of 
moving saturation front and is function of time t .  The saturated molar concentration of drug in 
polymer matrix is sc , and the polymer matrix is initially overloaded for excess undissolved 
loading uc  in molar concentration.  The molar concentration of drug in diffusion zone is 
),( txc , and the drug is saturated on ]),([ ltxx s∈  with undissolved excess loading uc  as that in 
initial state.  The sink extends in the negative x  direction, and it is assumed to be well-stirred.  
Hence the molar concentration in sink, )(tcv , is uniform over the sink and is function of t  only.  
The typically complete profile of molar concentration of drug for the release system is depicted in 
Figure 1.  The mathematical model is summarized as followed: 
 
02
2
=∂
∂−∂
∂
X
C
T
C                (1) 
 
01 =−∂
∂
= dT
dX
X
C
C
s
XXu s
              (2) 
 
0)1(1
0
=+−+∫ uv
s
v
X
s
CC
X
LCdx
X
s
            (3) 
 
0)0( =sX                 (4) 
 
0)0( =vC                 (5) 
 
vkCTC =),0(                 (6) 
 4
excess loading of drug, the ratio of affinity of drug for polymer matrix to that for sink, and the 
extent or volume of sink.  To demonstrate the affection of these three parameters on the release 
of drug, the temporal variation of moving saturation front )(TX s  for various conditions are 
depicted in Figures 2 to 4.  Figure 2 demonstrates the effect of uC  on the speed of moving 
saturation front.  When the excess loading of drug in overloaded polymer matrix is increased, 
the time for the exhaustion of undissolved drug of equal length must increase, therefore the 
moving saturation front is slowed down, as the figure shows.  This is consistent with the results 
in previous works. 
    Figure 3 demonstrates the effect of k  on the speed of moving saturation front.  The value 
of k  denotes the favor of drug to polymer matrix.  When k  increases, the tendency for drug 
to stay in polymer matrix increases.  At the meanwhile, according to equation (6), the molar 
concentration at the interface between polymer matrix and sink is at higher level, and the average 
molar concentration gradient through diffusion zone is lowered, as a consequence the effluent 
molar flux from polymer matrix should be decreased.  On account of these two physical 
condition, the moving saturation front is slowed down, as Figure 3 shows. 
    Figure 4 demonstrates the effect of vL  on the speed of moving saturation front.  The value 
of vL  represents the thickness or extent of sink.  In realistic condition, frequently, the value of 
vL  is comparable to unity, or in other word, the scale of absorber of drug is not much larger if 
compared with that of release device.  In such conditions, the release rate may be quite different 
from that for a so-called perfect sink system.  When the value of vL  increases, the molar 
concentration of drug in sink, )(TCv , has a lower value, and hence the molar concentration at 
the interface between polymer matrix and sink is also at lower level due to equilibrium.  As a 
consequence, the average molar concentration gradient through diffusion zone is decreased, and 
as is the effluent molar flux from polymer matrix.  Therefore, the moving saturation front is 
speeded up, as Figure 4 shows. 
 
 
6. ????? 
 
    By Landau transform and numerical method, the release of drug from an overloaded 
polymer matrix into a sink of finite constant volume is solved successfully.  Based on the 
analyses in this work, the conclusions are summarized as followed: 
(a) When the drug load in polymer matrix is increased, the speed of moving saturation front 
decreases. 
(b) When the distribution coefficient increases, the speed of moving saturation front decreases. 
(c) When the volume of sink is extended, the speed of moving saturation front increases. 
 6
?? 
 
 
sink of constant finite volume polymer matrix
c
v
(t)
l(0,0)
c
s
 + c
u
x
s
(t)
c
s
c(x,t)
x
 
 
Figure 1. Schematic representation of the overloaded polymer matrix system considered. 
 
 
 
 
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
T
X
s(
T
)
= 0.5 1.0 2.0C
u
 
 
Figure 2. Temporal variation of the moving boundary, )(TX s , for various values of uC .  
5.0=k  and 0.20=vL . 
