 2 
壹、 中文摘要：  
 
關鍵詞：極座標發射器，切換式功率放大器，MEMS 濾波器，EDA 設計流程，多模多頻帶發射機。 
 
本子計畫目標為『Circuit/MEMS Co-design EDA 設計平台的建立以及Multiband Multimode 發射 
器（Transmitter）電路設計』 
由於無線通訊的蓬勃發展，具有多模的個人通訊系統需求，使得開發適用於多頻帶，並具有高線 
性度及高效率的發射器成為必然的趨勢。而欲設計出.9G-10GHz 完整系統晶片，異質整合是可行的解 
決方案之一，但為整合不同製程（如：MEMS，CMOS），建立一個完整的EDA 整合設計平台是必需 
的。在本計畫中，會依下列流程完成包含系統架構分析、電路模組設計，並建立於可異質整合的EDA 
設計環境，藉以提供傳送系統設計之整合。 
依下列流程做 RF CMOS MEMS 電路開發： 
（1） Multiband Multimode 傳送機系統架構評估 
（2） Multiband Multimode 射頻積體電路晶片及MEMS 元件設計 
本計畫全程計畫為 2 年： 
第一年針對.9-10GHz 傳送機系統設計所需建立之設計要項進行技術開發及環境的建立，包括： 
（1） Circuit/MEMS Co-design EDA 設計環境的建立 
（2） Multiband Multimode 傳送機系統架構分析 
（3） Multiband Multimode 傳送機系統積體電路晶片設計 
由於傳送機系統中，主要電路功率放大器的特性會影響系統性能甚巨，故於第一年計畫中，故會特別 
針對應用於多模多頻帶系統中的功率放大器，其非線性特性作一研究，並提出之解決方案。 
第二年針對系統中可應用之 MEMS 被動元件（例如：濾波器），作一研究及設計，並利用所建立之EDA 
設計環境，與電路作一整合。
 4 
參、報告內容：  
 
近年來, 在新興消費性產品帶動、製程設計產業陸續投入 MEMS 微機電技術，以標準
CMOS 技術為平台實現感測器 SoC 化，可實現高品質，低成本之競爭優勢，Mixed-signal 
MEMS CMOS 儼然成為半導體產業革命性技術。Mixed-signal MEMS CMOS 實為將標準
CMOS 積體電路與 MEMS 充分整合的發展技術。而 Mixed-signal MEMS CMOS 採用現有的
標準化 IC 製程 (CMOS process)可將微電子電路以及 MEMS 微細結構以相同的設計介面整合
在一個晶片之上。為 Multi-band multi-mode (MBMO) wireless transceiver 設計, 提供了極為彈
性且頗具發展潛力的整合製作方法，台灣具備完整之半導體產業鏈，在政府持續支援之下，
應可爭取國際領先地位。 
本計畫完成結合 MEMS 元件與 CMOS 電路之 RF 前端電路, 係為全球首例:  
(1). 可應用於極座標發射器中操作於2.5GHz/3.5GHz/5.2GHz 之E 類功率放大器， 
(2). 寬頻低雜訊GSM/DCS/WIMAX/WLAN之多頻帶頻率合成器 
(3). 適用於多模之具備平坦雜訊表現之寬頻低雜訊放大器設計 
With 0.18m CMOS implementable MEMS inductors being embedded, 63% improvements 
of PA efficiency, 15.3% and 11% power saving of LNA and synthesizer can be measured.  
To implement compact multi-mode transceivers [1] to cover GSM/DCS/WiMAX/WiFi, the 
single tri-band PA with phase compensation technique [2], LNA with noise flatness using active 
input matching [3] and synthesizer with ripple-free scheme [4] are implemented in tsmc 0.18m 
CMOS (Fig.1).  
 
Fig.1 Multi-band Transceiver for GSM/DCS/WiMAX/WiFi 
 6 
 
Fig.3. Schematic of the LNA with noise flatness design 
The fully integrated multi-band frequency synthesizer is designed to support IQ based 
GSM/DCS/WIMAX/WLAN (802.11a/b/g) transceivers (Fig.4). With ripple-free circuit, amplitude 
of control voltage ripple can be reduced to 3.45 μV in locking time of 13.5μs. The synthesizer 
performs the suppression of 31.4dB in the power spectrum of reference-spur and the peak-to-peak 
jitter 20.31ps. The measurement result of the QVCO in the frequency synthesizer has the phase 
noise performance of -123.38dBc/Hz at offset frequency 1MHz, and the FOM is -179dBc/Hz.  
 
Fig. 4 Building blocks of the synthesizer with ripple free circuit 
 
Monolithic integration of MEMS and ASIC can be expected with current development to 
adopt existing IC lines to fabricate MEMS elements [6]. With 8 inch etching tooling being installed 
in open CMOS foundries, MEMS inductors implementable with 0.18μm CMOS ASIC process are 
firstly designed and embedded in RF transceiver modules.  
 To implement MEMS inductor monolithically with tsmc 0.18μm CMOS ASIC, two steps 
 8 
 
Fig.5 Q factors of CMOS inductor and CMOS MEMS inductor 
 
All the proposed single PA, LNA and synthesizer to cover wide band require high power 
efficiency to sustain the high linearity. The major difference of the MEMS inductor to the CMOS 
ones is the removal of substrate by etching processes. With the analysis of the loss caused from 
parasitic series resistances of inductors, quality factor dominates the loss of the circuit. Therefore, 
hence the MEMS inductor with higher quality factor should be able to enhance the power 
performances for these transceiver modules. 
Some of the inductors in the proposed architectures are replaced with MEMS inductors. In 
the proposed multi-stage LNA, counterpart with LL and L1 in Fig.3 being replaced with MEMS 
inductors are fabricated. In the tri-band PA, counterpart with Lck, Lo1, and Lo2 in Fig.2 are replaced. 
Also, two of the inductors in QVCO in synthesizer are replaced. Improved power performance can 
be measured from all these counterparts and listed in Fig.6. Efficiency of the tri-band PA is with 
63% improvement. Power consumption of the LNA with CMOS MEMS inductors reduces about 
14% in LNA core and 16% in buffer parts and gets 14% improvement in total power consumption. 
Both phase noise and power consumption of the synthesizer can have 12.2% improvements. Die 
sizes of PA, LNA and the synthesizer are 0.24 mm
2
, 0.29 mm
2
 and 2.64 mm
2
 respectively. Die 
photos are illustrated in Fig.7-9. 
 10 
 
Fig.7. Die photo of the counterparts of the tri-band PA. 
 
Fig.8. Die photo of the counterparts of the LAN. 
 
Fig.9. Die photo of the synthesizer. 
 12 
  
Fig.S3 Performance comparison of the proposed synthesizer  
 
四、參考文獻      
[1] Lee, C.P.; Behzad, A.; Marholev, B.; Magoon, V.; Bhatti, I.; Li, D.; Bothra, S.; Afsahi, A.; 
Ojo, D.; Roufoogaran, R.; Li, T.; Yuyu Chang; Rao, K.R.; Au, S.; Seetharam, P.; Carter, K.; Rael, 
J.; Macintosh, M.; Lee, B.; Rofougaran, M.; Rofougaran, R.; Hadji-Abdolhamid, A.; Nariman, 
M.; Khorram, S.; Anand, S.; Chien, E.; Wu, S.; Barrett, C.; Lijun Zhang; Zolfaghari, A.; Darabi, 
H.; Sarfaraz, A.; Ibrahim, B.; Gonikberg, M.; Forbes, M.; Fraser, C.; Gutierrez, L.; Gonikberg, 
Y.; Hafizi, M.; Mak, S.; Castaneda, J.; Kim, K.; Zhenhua Liu; Bouras, S.; Chien, K.; 
Chandrasekhar, V.; Chang, P.; Li, E.; Zhimin Zhao; “A multistandard, multiband SoC with 
integrated BT, FM, WLAN radios and integrated power amplifier” 
Solid-State Circuits Conference Digest of Technical Papers (ISSCC), 2010 Page(s): 454 - 455 
[2] Tenbroek, B.; Strange, J.; Nalbantis, D.; Jones, C.; Fowers, P.; Brett, S.; Beghein, C.; Beffa, 
F.,” Single-Chip Tri-Band WCDMA/HSDPA Transceiver without External SAW Filters and with 
Integrated TX Power Control”, ISSCC 2008. Digest of Technical Papers. Publication Year: 
2008 , Page(s): 202 – 607. 
[3]Che-Cheng Liu, Mei-Fen Chou, Che-Sheng Chen, Wen-Shen Wuen and Kuei-Ann Wen, “A 
broadband low noise amplifier with ± 0.09dB noise flatness using active input matching” IEEE 
ECTI-CON, pp. 557 – 560, May 2010. 
[4] B0-Heng Chen, Che-Sheng Chen, Mei-Fen Chou, Kuei-Ann Wen, “A Multi-band Frequency 
Synthesizer for GSM/DCS/WIMAX/WLAN Application with Ripple-free Circuit” ,2010 IEEE 
International Conference on Signals and Electronic Systems (ICSES), September 7-10, 2010, 
Gliwice, Poland 
[5] Heng Zhang, Xiaohua Fan, Sinencio, E.S., “A Low-Power, Linearized, Ultra-Wideband 
LNA Design Technique,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 320 - 330, Feb. 2009. 
[6] Fedder, G.K.; Mukherjee, T.; “Tunable RF and analog circuits using on-chip MEMS passive 
components”, ISSCC 2005. Digest of Technical Papers. Publication Year: 2005 , Page(s): 390 - 
391 Vol. 1.  
[7] M. Talonen et al., “System requirements for OFDM polar transmitter,” 2005 European Conf. 
on  Circuit Theory and Design, pp. 69-72, vol. 3, 2005. 
[8] M. Helfenstein and G. S. Moschytz (Eds.), “Circuits and system for wireless 
communications,”  Chapter 10, Kluwer, 2000 
 14 
22.2dB 的最大功率增益。可量測到 2.85dB 的最低雜訊值且在 0.6 到 4G 頻寬內平坦雜訊值在
2.92dB 具有正負 0.07dB 的變異量。在此提出應用於寬頻之平坦雜訊放大器並經由台積電
0.18-μm CMOS 製程進行電路實作，量測出整體具有 0.6-6GHz 的寬闖頻寬，並且驗證此多級
式低雜訊放大器適合應用於多模組系統。運用 HFSS 建立互補式金氧半(CMOS)微機電(MEMS)
電感的 3D 模型，與模擬其特性並實現與量測此電感來驗證 3D 模型的可信度。透過所提出的
具有平坦雜訊之放大器與雜訊抑制之放大器來討論高特性品質的互補式金氧半(CMOS)微機
電(MEMS)電感的影響。 
 
獲刊登三篇國際期刊論文: 
[1]. Po-Heng Chen;   Che-Sheng Chen;   Mei-Fen Chou;   Kuei-Ann Wen; “A 
Multi-band Frequency Synthesizer for GSM/DCS/WIMAX/WLAN Application with   
Ripple-free Circuit”  2010 IEEE International Conference on Signals and Electronic 
Systems (ICSES), Gliwice, 7-10 p169 - 172, Sept. 2010, 
 
[2]. Che-Cheng Liu, Mei-Fen Chou, Che-Sheng Chen, Wen-An Tsou, Kuei-Ann Wen,” A 
Broadband Low Noise Amplifier with ± 0.09dB Noise Flatness Using Active Input 
Matching,” to be published in Electrical Engineering/Electronics, Computer, 
Telecommunications and Information Technology (ECTI) , May 2010. 
[3]. Chung-Min Lai, Wen-An Tsou, Mei-Fen Chou, and Kuei-Ann Wen,”TRI-BAND CMOS 
CLASS-E POWER AMPLIFIER DESIGN WITH PHASE COMPENSATIONS FOR POLAR 
SYSTEMS,” to be published in Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer 
Engineering, May 2010. 
 
 16 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
國科會補助計畫 計畫名稱：異質整合 Mixed-signal/MEMS CMOS無線射頻收發機設
計研發－子計畫四：可重組式 Mixed-signal/MEMS .9G~10GHz 射
頻傳送端設計(2/2) 
計畫主持人：溫瓌岸        
計畫編號： NSC 99-2220-E-009 -042 –  領域： 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）應用於極座標系統中具有相位補償之 
互補金氧半三頻帶 E 類功率放大器設計 
（英文）Tri-band CMOS Class-E Power Amplifier Design with 
Phase Compensations for Polar Systems 
成果歸屬機構 國 立 交 通 大 學 
發明人 
(創作人) 
賴崇閔/溫瓌岸 
技術說明 
（中文）三頻帶 E 類功率放大器使用 0.18mm 製程並且藉由調整
共基極電晶體和匹配電路以達成三頻帶的操作。藉由獨特的共基
極電晶體的偏壓和補償電容補償此 E 類功率放大器因為供給電壓
的變動造成的相位失真。為了使此 E 類功率放大器有更好的效
能，本電路中使用微機電製程將 E 類放器之電感基底掏空，降低
電感的基底所造成之基底損耗。量測結果顯示:在 2.8V 的供給電
壓及 6dBm 的輸入功率下，在 3.5GHz 的頻帶有最大的汲極效
能:13.2%，輸出功率:10.3dBm。在供給電壓範圍為 0.5V 到 3V 範
圍之間，此時之相位失真被壓抑在 6 度以內。為了驗證所提出之
相位補償技術對於三頻帶 E 類放大器應用於極座標發射器中可增
加調變訊號之準確度，建構了一個系統和電路的共同模擬環境。
模擬結果顯示:所提出之相位補償技術提升了發射器之 RCE 值使
得能符合 WiMAX 和 802.11 之系統規格要求。 
（英文）A first fully integrated cascode Class-E power amplifier (PA) 
operating in 2.5GHz/3.5GHz/5.2GHz frequency bands for polar 
transmitters is fabricated in 0.18mm CMOS technology. The phase 
distortion is compensated by controlling the common-gate transistor 
gate voltage and a compensative capacitor. To enhance the 
performance, MEMS process is applied . Measurement results show 
that the maximum drain efficiency of 13.2% and output power of 
10.3dBm can be achieved at the input power level of 6dBm from 2.8V 
supply in 3.5GHz frequency band. The phase distortion can be 
compensated to 6° under supply voltage of 0.5V to 3V in 3.5GHz 
frequency band. A system co-simulation has been established for 
relative constellation error (RCE) evaluation and it reveals that the 
proposed compensations techniques make the RCE improve to meet 
the requirements of WiMAX and 802.11a systems in the tri-band. 
產業別 IC Design 
技術/產品應用範圍 Wireless Communications 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
Wide band and high performance circuit module 
附件二 
 18 
 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：異質整合 Mixed-signal/MEMS CMOS無線射頻收發機設
計研發－子計畫四：可重組式 Mixed-signal/MEMS .9G~10GHz 射
頻傳送端設計(2/2) 
計畫主持人：溫瓌岸        
計畫編號： NSC 99-2220-E-009 -042 –  領域： 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）適用於多模之具備平坦雜訊表現 
之寬頻低雜訊放大器設計 
（英文）A Wideband LNA with Noise Flatness Using Active  
Input Matching for Multi-Band Applications 
成果歸屬機構 國 立 交 通 大 學 
發明人 
(創作人) 
劉哲誠/溫瓌岸 
技術說明 
（中文） 
針對多模組應用提出使用主動輸入匹配具有平坦雜訊表現之寬頻
互補式金氧半(CMOS)低雜訊放大器之設計。本文提出之多級式低
雜訊放大器(LNA)包含互補式放大器與共射級放大器架構，並採用
主動輸入匹配方法，以達成平坦雜訊和超寬頻之設計目標。在 1.8
伏的電源供應下消耗 17.1 毫瓦可達到 22.2dB 的最大功率增益。可
量測到 2.85dB 的最低雜訊值且在 0.6 到 4G 頻寬內平坦雜訊值在
2.92dB 具有正負 0.07dB 的變異量。在此提出應用於寬頻之平坦雜
訊放大器並經由台積電 0.18-μm CMOS 製程進行電路實作，量測
出整體具有 0.6-6GHz 的寬闖頻寬，並且驗證此多級式低雜訊放大
器適合應用於多模組系統。運用 HFSS 建立互補式金氧半(CMOS)
微機電(MEMS)電感的 3D 模型，與模擬其特性並實現與量測此電
感來驗證 3D 模型的可信度。在此論文透過所提出的具有平坦雜訊
之放大器與雜訊抑制之放大器來討論高特性品質的互補式金氧半
(CMOS)微機電(MEMS)電感的影響。 
 
 20 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告                           
                                                         100  年 5  月 23 日 
報告人 
姓名 
王俊凱 
服務機構
及職稱 
交通大學電子工程所 
碩士生 
會議 
時間 
地點 
2011 年 5月 15日～5月 18日 
巴西里約熱內盧 
本會核定
補助文號 
NSC 99-2220-E-009 -042- 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 2011年 IEEE 國際電路與系統研討會 
(英文) 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文)單晶片含截波相關雙重取樣讀出電路之互補金氧半導體微電子機械系統
加速度計 
(英文) A Monolithic CMOS MEMS Accelerometer with Chopper Correlated Double 
Sampling Readout Circuit 
 
一、參加會議經過 
今年 (2011) 的 IEEE 國際電路與系統研討會議 (IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and 
Systems) 在巴西里約熱內盧舉行。IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems 多年來為
推動電路與系統技術的重要國際研討會。今年會議全程 四天，論文部分包含了十八項主題，其範
圍涵蓋相當廣泛，類比訊號處理，生醫電路與系統，通訊電路與系統，至超大型積體電路系統與
應用等等，與電路相關的主題都會被包含。 
由行政院國家科學委員會補助出國會議，得以有機會參加這個國際會議。這四天中，於星期
日(15/Mar/2011) 提供一全天的短期課程(Tutorial)，若要參與課程則需而外收取費用，礙於經費問
題，無參與課程訓練。星期一(16/Mar/2011)下午抵達會場註冊，星期二(17/Mar/2011)上午聽取演講，
下午聽取他人的論文發表。參加此次會議的主要目的，旨在發表一篇論文，發表時間為星期三
(17/Mar/2011)上午十點三十分。此篇論文 (Paper#1439 “A Monolithic CMOS MEMS Accelerometer 
with Chopper Correlated Double Sampling Readout Circuit”為口頭演說論文，聽眾反應相當良好，並
清楚的回答了三個問題。 
二、與會心得 
本次研討會個人認為較值得注意的重點如下： 
(1) 由微軟傑出工程師首席學家 Rico Malvar 的演說中提到，資訊計算與娛樂技術將改變我們的生
活，在大量的資訊中，特別是在這資訊爆炸的時代，如何有效的計算出所需要的資訊，不僅僅
是文字上的搜索，還包含圖形上的搜索，利用計算的力量來達成各種可能性。而在娛樂技術上，
過去以來無線遙控已經大幅的運用，現行最為熱門的則是感測系統，利用影像捕捉技術，以及
動態感應器來捕捉人體活動的訊號，在未來會變得更為精密，越貼近人體實際活動的情形，微
軟研究大幅展現了他們超前的研究成果。 
附件三 
A Monolithic CMOS MEMS Accelerometer with 
Chopper Correlated Double Sampling Readout Circuit 
Chun-Kai Wang and Che-Sheng Chen 
Department of Electronic Engineering 
National Chiao Tung University 
Hsinchu 300, Taiwan 
E-mail: [kernzip, chen.chesheng]@gmail.com 
Kuei-Ann Wen 
Department of Electronic Engineering 
National Chiao Tung University 
Hsinchu 300, Taiwan 
E-mail: stellawen@mail.nctu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—A monolithic CMOS MEMS capacitive accelerometer 
with micropower analog readout circuit is presented in this 
paper. In order to optimize noise-power performance of 
accelerometer in limited area, a specification driven MEMS/IC 
co-design flow is adopted. In analog readout circuit design, the 
proposed circuit architecture combines chopper stabilization 
and correlated double sampling to suppress low frequency noise 
and compensate DC offset. The RMS input referred noise 
voltage is 9.82 nV/√Hz under 100Hz. The power consumption is 
36uW at 100kHz modulation frequency. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
CMOS MEMS accelerometers are applied for a wide 
range of applications, including automotive safety, virtual 
reality, movement detection, various navigation system, and 
mobile devices. A CMOS MEMS accelerometer has the 
advantages of low temperature coefficient, low power 
dissipation, low noise, and low cost due to it’s compatibility 
with wafer fabrication process. However, monolithic CMOS 
MEMS accelerometers fabricated with standard ASIC 
process have very small sensing capacitance, of which the 
differential relative variation usually on the order of 
F1718 10~10 −−  within the bandwidth ranging from several Hz 
to several hundred Hz, and that cause low mechanical 
sensitivity. Therefore, the main design consideration is how 
to suppress low frequency noise and DC offset in readout 
circuit design. Furthermore, for wireless devices and 
portable consumer electronics devices, the power dissipation 
is another critical design consideration for the capacitive 
sensing sensors. 
One of the readout circuits widely used in CMOS MEMS 
accelerometers is switched-capacitor (SC) charge integration 
method [1]. The correlated double sampling (CDS) technique 
has been used to significantly reduce the DC offset and low 
frequency noise. The main drawback of the SC circuit is the 
related high kT/C noise with small feedback capacitor. The 
other one of the readout circuits is continuous-time voltage 
(CTV) method [2] [3]. The chopper stabilization (CS) tech-
nique is employed to reduce the DC offset and low frequency 
noise. Both of the two noise reduce techniques could be 
integrated into one capacitive sensing readout circuit [4] [5] 
[6]. However, the low noise readout circuits consume a power 
of few mW, and the low power readout interface circuits 
generate a noise of a few hundred μg/√Hz.  
This paper presents both the readout circuit and a CMOS 
MEMS accelerometer. In accelerometer design, a specification 
driven MEMS/IC co-design flow is proposed. Low noise and 
compact accelerometer could be achieved. The proposed read-
out circuit combines the chopper stabilization technique and 
the correlated double sampling to reduce low frequency noise 
and DC offset. 
II. CIRCUIT ARCHITECTURE 
The architecture of the CMOS MEMS accelerometer is 
shown in Fig. 1, where the fully differential capacitive bridge 
represents the sensing capacitors of the CMOS MEMS 
accelerometer. The design goal is to achieve 12-bit resolution 
under 1.2V peak to peak output swing with ±4g sensing range. 
The bandwidth of the CMOS MEMS accelerometer is up to 
100Hz. At the beginning, the output noise voltage should be 
less than half the LSB, i.e. 14.6μV/√Hz for 100Hz bandwidth. 
The sensitivity could be 150mV/g due 1.2Vpp with ±4g sensing 
range. Assume the voltage swing at sensor output is 1mV/g, 
the voltage gain readout circuit can be obtained as 44 dB. 
 
Figure 1.  Architeture diagram of the readout circuit. 
Considering noise and linearity, the voltage gain of the 
second stage amplifier is set to be 22dB. The gain of the first 
Identify applicable sponsor/s here. (sponsors)
noise coefficient which is typically ten times lower than 
NMOS FETs. The mean square equivalent input noise could 
be expressed as below 
f
g
g
WL
K
g
g
WL
K
WL
K
fC
f
g
g
g
g
g
TkVVV
m
mfn
m
mfpfp
ox
m
m
m
m
m
bnfnTni
Δ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
+++
Δ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
++⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
≅+=
2
1
2
5
5
2
1
2
3
31
1
5
1
3
1
222
)()()(
2
1
3
242     (7) 
where T is absolute temperature,  W and L are the dimensions 
of MOSFETs, Cox is the gate capacitance per area, f is 
frequency, Kfp is the PMOS flicker noise coefficient, Kfn is the 
NMOS flicker noise coefficient, and gm is transconductance. 
From (7), the larger size of MOSFET, the lower flicker noise 
of MOSFET. On the other side, parasitic capacitance at input 
node of amplifier will be larger. However, based on (3), large 
parasitic capacitance will degrade the sensitivity of sensor. 
Another design parameter for low noise is the transcon-
ductance. Large transconductance of input MOSFET will 
suppress noise level but also consume more current.   
 
Figure 4.  Schematic of the 1st stage amplifier. 
To simplify the design flow, gm3/gm1 and gm5/gm1 are set to 
less than 0.1 then the noise contribution of MOSFET 3~6 
could be negligible. Based on (3), Cp is set to 150fF for 
acceptable CS. Because it easier to design low noise circuit 
than MEMS accelerometer, the electrical noise is set to one 
fourth of total system noise. The size of MOSFET could be 
found from (7) by increasing bias current slightly until meet 
the noise specification. The buffer is used to drive loading 
capacitors of CDS circuit. 
B. Chopper Stabilization Technique 
The principle of chopper stabilization is illustrated in Fig. 
5. The approach applies modulation to transpose the signal to 
the chopper frequency, while the noise is unaffected. After the 
second multiplier, the signal is demodulated back to the 
original one, and the offset and noise has been modulated to 
the chopper frequency. This chopping operation results in and 
equivalent input noise spectrum that is shown in Fig. 5, where 
the offset and noise signal has been shifted to the odd 
harmonic frequencies of the chopper frequency. A low-pass 
filter can be used to reduce the amplitude of the offset and 
noise. Therefore, if the chopper frequency is much higher than 
the signal bandwidth, the flicker noise will be greatly reduced 
with this technique. 
A1
fc
(A) (B) (C)
(A)
(B)
(C)
 
Figure 5.  Concept of chopper stabilization technique. 
C. Corrected Double Sampling Technique 
The correlated double sampling technique is used to 
subtract out error voltage with two sequential samples. The 
technique is illustrated in Fig. 6. 
 
 
Figure 6.  Schematic of correlated double sampling. 
During phase one, Ccds is charged to the output. During 
the complementary phase, the output drives the series of the 
pre-charged Ccds. Due to the input chopping, the output 
voltage Vo is 
)]1()1([)1( 1 errorino VVAV +−=                     (8) 
)]2()2([)2( 1 errorino VVAV ++=                     (9) 
where Verror is the offset and the flicker noise. By inspection 
of Fig. 6, during Φ1, we have 
cdsocds CVQ )1()1( −= .                           (10) 
Therefore, duringΦ2, the voltage across Ccds becomes 
in
cds
cdsoo
Ccds VAC
CVVV 12
)]2()1([)2( ≅+−= .             (11) 
that is showing that the Verror is subtracted by CDS. The 
output of the first stage amplifier is differential. Therefore, the 
complete scheme of the method as shown in Fig. 6 can be 
realized that uses two CDS structures working on both outputs. 
The 2kT/C noise of the output sampling is negligible 
compared to the input divided by 21A . 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告                           
                                                         100  年 5  月 23 日 
報告人 
姓名 
王俊凱 服務機構
及職稱 
交通大學電子工程所 
碩士生 
會議 
時間 
地點 
2011年 5月 15日～5月 18日 
巴西里約熱內盧 
本會核定
補助文號 
NSC 99-2220-E-009 -042- 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 2011 年 IEEE國際電路與系統研討會 
(英文) 2011 IEEE International Symposium on Circuits and Systems 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文)單晶片含截波相關雙重取樣讀出電路之互補金氧半導體微電子機械系統
加速度計 
(英文) A Monolithic CMOS MEMS Accelerometer with Chopper Correlated Double 
Sampling Readout Circuit 
 
一、參加會議經過 
今年 (2011) 的 IEEE 國際電路與系統研討會議 (IEEE International Symposium on 
Circuits and Systems) 在巴西里約熱內盧舉行。IEEE International Symposium on Circuits 
and Systems 多年來為推動電路與系統技術的重要國際研討會。今年會議全程 四天，論
文部分包含了十八項主題，其範圍涵蓋相當廣泛，類比訊號處理，生醫電路與系統，通
訊電路與系統，至超大型積體電路系統與應用等等，與電路相關的主題都會被包含。 
由行政院國家科學委員會補助出國會議，得以有機會參加這個國際會議。這四天中，
於星期日(15/Mar/2011) 提供一全天的短期課程(Tutorial)，若要參與課程則需而外收取費
用，礙於經費問題，無參與課程訓練。星期一(16/Mar/2011)下午抵達會場註冊，星期二
(17/Mar/2011)上午聽取演講，下午聽取他人的論文發表。參加此次會議的主要目的，旨
在發表一篇論文，發表時間為星期三 (17/Mar/2011)上午十點三十分。此篇論文 
(Paper#1439 “A Monolithic CMOS MEMS Accelerometer with Chopper Correlated Double 
Sampling Readout Circuit”為口頭演說論文，聽眾反應相當良好，並清楚的回答了三個問
題。 
二、與會心得 
本次研討會個人認為較值得注意的重點如下： 
(1) 由微軟傑出工程師首席學家 Rico Malvar 的演說中提到，資訊計算與娛樂技術將改變
我們的生活，在大量的資訊中，特別是在這資訊爆炸的時代，如何有效的計算出所需
要的資訊，不僅僅是文字上的搜索，還包含圖形上的搜索，利用計算的力量來達成各
種可能性。而在娛樂技術上，過去以來無線遙控已經大幅的運用，現行最為熱門的則
是感測系統，利用影像捕捉技術，以及動態感應器來捕捉人體活動的訊號，在未來會
變得更為精密，越貼近人體實際活動的情形，微軟研究大幅展現了他們超前的研究成
果。 
(2) 此會議探討的研究領域甚廣，與會人士層面廣泛，有訊號處理技術、無線處理技術、
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫四：可重組式 Mixed-signal/MEMS .9G~10GHz射頻傳送端設計(2/2)
計畫主持人: 溫瓌岸
計畫編號: 99-2220-E-009-042- 學門領域: 晶片科技計畫--整合型學術研究
計畫 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 應用於極座標系統中具有相位補償之
(英文) Tri-band CMOS Class-E Power Amplifier Design with Phase Compensations for Polar 
Systems
成果歸屬機構
國立交通大學 發明人
(創作人)
溫瓌岸,賴崇閔
技術說明
(中文) 三頻帶E 類功率放大器使用0.18mm 製程並且藉由調整共基極電晶體和匹配電路
以達成三頻帶的操作。藉由獨特的共基極電晶體的偏壓和補償電容補償此E 類功
率放大器因為供給電壓的變動造成的相位失真。為了使此E 類功率放大器有更好
的效能，本電路中使用微機電製程將E 類放器之電感基底掏空，降低電感的基底
所造成之基底損耗。量測結果顯示:在2.8V 的供給電壓及6dBm 的輸入功率下，
在3.5GHz 的頻帶有最大的汲極效能:13.2%，輸出功率:10.3dBm。在供給電壓範
圍為0.5V 到3V 範圍之間，此時之相位失真被壓抑在6 度以內。為了驗證所提出
之相位補償技術對於三頻帶E 類放大器應用於極座標發射器中可增加調變訊號之
準確度，建構了一個系統和電路的共同模擬環境。模擬結果顯示:所提出之相位
補償技術提升了發射器之RCE 值使得能符合WiMAX 和802.11 之系統規格要求。
(英文) A first fully integrated cascode Class-E power amplifier (PA) operating in 
2.5GHz/3.5GHz/5.2GHz frequency bands for polar transmitters is fabricated in 0.18mm 
CMOS technology. The phase distortion is compensated by controlling the common-gate 
transistor gate voltage and a compensative capacitor. To enhance the performance, 
MEMS process is applied . Measurement results show that the maximum drain efficiency 
of 13.2% and output power of 10.3dBm can be achieved at the input power level of 6dBm 
from 2.8V supply in 3.5GHz frequency band. The phase distortion can be compensated to 
6° under supply voltage of 0.5V to 3V in 3.5GHz frequency band. A system co-
simulation has been established for relative constellation error (RCE) evaluation and it 
reveals that the proposed compensations techniques make the RCE improve to meet the 
requirements of WiMAX and 802.11a systems in the tri-band.
產業別 其他工業製品製造業
技術/產品應用範圍 Wireless Communications
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
Wide band and high performance circuit module
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
