  1
關鍵詞：RNA 結構預測，鬆弛法，材質貼圖 
 
Keywords: RNA structure prediction, relaxation method, texture mapping 
成果報告內容 
Introduction 
In this sub-project, we achieved the following goals: 
1. develop an algorithmic method to display the 3D models of RNA sequences from their 
secondary structures; 
2. conduct a series of demonstrations of this technique on real biological data; 
3. study related issues on improving the speed to rendering the models. 
Tools developed in this project can be found at http://alg.csie.ncnu.edu.tw/program.php. 
Methods 
The idea of our approach to predict the tertiary structure of an RNA sequence is as follows.  
1. Predict its secondary structure; 
2. Construct a distance matrix M from its secondary structure; 
3. Map nucleotides to points in a plane according to M; 
4. Fold points in the plane onto a cylinder. 
There are many public tools prepared for the first step. Real data sets containing the information of 
RNA secondary structures are also available. Moreover, in our previous study of the research 
project supported by NSF, we have developed several tools to accomplish Step 1. Therefore, we 
assume we are given the secondary structure and want to predict its tertiary structure. 
Now we focus on Steps 2~4. Given a secondary structure as the input, we use three 
parameters to capture the distances between nucleotides. Let DB be the distance of paired 
nucleotides, DN for adjacent nucleotides on the backbone, and DO for other cases. We apply the 
following rules to construct the distance matrix M= (Dij): 
Case 1: Dij=DB if ri is paired with rj; 
Case 2: Dij=DN if ri is adjacent to rj (i.e. j=i+1); 
Case 3: Dij=DO, otherwise. 
After finishing this, we assign nucleotides into a plane with coordinates (pix, piy) as pix=-2 if i is 
odd, +2 otherwise; and piy =2n-2i+2. Then we adjust (pix, piy) according to M as 
  3
We implement our method in C language. The testing real data come from the Nucleotide Acid 
Database and the Protein Data Bank. We set DB=17, DN=6, and DO=200, and the results for 
1EBR and 1A60 RNA sequences are as follows. 
 
The secondary structures for 1EBR and 1A60 are shown in the following figures: 
 
 
More extensive experiments for 1KPY, 1KPZ, 1FQZ, 1LDZ, 1TXS, 2LDZ, 1KAJ, 1CQ5 can be 
found at http://alg.csie.ncnu.edu.tw/predicted.php.  
The actual structures for 1EBR and 1A60 are shown in the following figures: 
