1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
進階探索模糊品質機能展開之研究 
 A Further Research on Fuzzy Quality Function Deployment 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 98 – 2221 – E – 214 - 036 
執 行 期 限：98年 8月 1日 至 99年 10月 31日 
主 持 人：劉浩天   義守大學工業工程與管理學系 
計畫參與人員：鄭宏昇、王慈穗   義守大學工業工程與管理學系 
 
一、中文摘要 
本研究目的是以模糊網路分析程序法
(ANP)法為基礎，提出一進階的品質機能展開
(A-QFD)模式。A-QFD模式將擴展現有方法之
研究範圍，從產品規劃階段延伸至零件展開階
段。A-QFD 模式包含五個主要步驟：(1)針對
這兩個階段建立相關的品質機能展開表。(2) 
將建立的品質機能展開表以模糊 ANP 法呈現
其架構，並求得表中各元件之重要性。(3)發
展模糊排序與模糊分群法，以排序與分類所求
得的結果。 (4)進行失效模式與效應分析
(FMEA)，主要是藉由模糊推論法，找出高風
險的失效模式。(5)發展一新的模糊多準則決
策分析(MCDM)模式，遴選最佳的雛形產品。
所求得的各項結果，可提供研發人員在設計產
品時的參考依據，並使研發人員更加瞭解所面
對的產品設計問題。為減少品質機能展開分析
中所需要的時間與精神，本研究將所提出的
A-QFD 法發展成一決策支援系統。最後，本
研究以台灣南部的一間公司為例，驗證本研究
方法的實用性。 
關鍵詞：品質機能展開，產品規劃，零件展開，
模糊ANP，模糊分群，模糊FMEA ，模糊
MCDM 
Abstract 
The objective of this research is to propose 
an advanced quality function deployment 
(A-QFD) method based on the fuzzy ANP 
model. The A-QFD model expands the scope of 
extant studies from the product planning phase 
to the part deployment phase. The A-QFD 
model consists of five major steps: (1) Establish 
the relevant QFD charts for these two phases. (2) 
Use the proposed fuzzy ANP model to represent 
the QFD charts and derive the importance of the 
components in the QFD charts. (3) Develop the 
fuzzy ranking and fuzzy clustering algorithms to 
prioritize and classify the acquired results. (4) 
Conduct the failure mode and effects analysis 
(FMEA) to identify high risk failure modes 
through the fuzzy inference approach. (5) 
Propose a new fuzzy multi-criteria decision 
making (MCDM) approach to select the best 
prototype product. The obtained results can 
provide product developers with valuable design 
information and help them better understand 
product design problems that they are facing. 
For saving the time and efforts of the QFD 
analysis process, we have developed a decision 
support system for implementing the proposed 
method. Finally, a case company in southern 
Taiwan was employed to illustrate the 
application of the proposed method. 
Keywords: QFD, product planning, part 
deployment, fuzzy ANP, fuzzy clustering, fuzzy 
FMEA, fuzzy MCDM 
2. Introduction 
By focusing on listening to customers, QFD 
has been a useful technique that aims to satisfy 
customer needs at the very beginning, namely 
the product design phase. As a product design 
tool, QFD is often used to plan and design new 
or improved products (or services). In general, a 
QFD system framework is comprised of four 
inter-linked phases: product planning, part 
deployment, process planning, and production 
planning. The output of one phase is employed 
in the next phase as an input. Specifically, QFD 
translates customer requirements (CRs) into 
3 
 Each product developer (or customer) uses 
linguistic variables to assess the relative 
importance ratings between pairs of elements in 
the submatrix. The assessed linguistic variables 
are translated into their corresponding TFNs, 
and thus a fuzzy pairwise-comparison matrix is 
constructed. The relative importance of element 
in the submatrix can be derived using the 
Lambda-Max method proposed by Csutora and 
Buckley (2001). In a similar way, we can 
acquire the values of all submatrices for the four 
supermatrices. 
Step 4. Calculate the overall importance (or 
bottleneck level) of ECs and PCs 
In the traditional ANP approach, the 
supermatrix is raised to limiting powers to 
calculate the overall importance of elements. 
However, it may cause a divergence problem for 
a fuzzy ANP model, To solve this problem, we 
adopt another approach, used in Ertay et al. 
(2005), Kahraman, Ertay, and Büyüközkan 
(2006), to calculate the overall importance of 
elements. Notice that the values in submatrices 
are crisp values for their approaches. However, 
they are TFNs in the A-QFD method. Thus, a 
modification is required. That is, the matrix 
multiplication “” in their approach is replaced 
by the TFN multiplication ( )  and addition 
( )  operations. 
Step 5. Fuzzy ranking and fuzzy clustering 
In Step 4, the obtained results (i.e. the 
importance of ECs and PCs, the bottleneck level 
of PCs) are represented by TFNs. A fuzzy 
ranking technique is used to prioritize the 
acquired TFNs. Here, Deng, Zhenfu, and Qi’s 
(2006) fuzzy ranking method is employed  and 
modified since their approach is relatively 
simple in terms of computation efforts while 
ranking numerous fuzzy numbers. By using the 
fuzzy ranking method, we can determine the 
importance (or bottleneck) ranking of ECs and 
PCs. The proposed A-QFD method can also 
provide the classification of the acquired results. 
Here, we modify the k-means method into a 
fuzzy k-means method. After fuzzy clustering, 
product developers can identify different 
bottleneck levels of groups and handle them 
with various priorities. Notice that both fuzzy 
ranking and fuzzy clustering methods can be 
also applied to prioritize and classify the 
importance of CRs, ECs, and PCs. 
Step 6. Conduct the FMEA 
After identifying the high bottleneck (or 
high importance) group of PCs, product 
developers may be interested in finding out the 
potential failures modes and failure causes for 
these PCs. Here, failure mode and effects 
analysis (FMEA) is used to achieve this goal. To 
overcome drawbacks of FMEA, A-QFD uses the 
fuzzy inference approach to calculate the RPN 
instead of the multiplication of the three factors 
(O, S, and D). The fuzzy inference approach 
uses the concept of a fuzzy logic system where 
the fuzzy rule base consists of a collection of 
fuzzy IF-THEN rules. These rules are usually 
generated by design experts (or product 
developers). After conducting the fuzzy FMEA, 
product developers can identify the high risk 
failure modes for the high bottleneck (or high 
importance) group of PCs. The failure causes 
and failure detection methods for these failure 
modes are also provided for future correction or 
prevention. The acquired information can help 
product developers focus on the high risk failure 
modes and handle them with top priority. 
Step 7. Select the best prototype product 
Based on the acquired information (ex. the 
importance of CRs, ECs, and PCs, the 
bottleneck level of PCs, the FMEA result, etc.), 
product developers may begin to design 
prototype products. However, in the product 
design process, there are usually more than one 
prototype products developed. Due to limited 
resources, funds, and facilities, only the best 
prototype product can be selected for mass 
production. Since prototype products are 
evaluated and selected under multiple evaluation 
criteria (ex. cost, function, technical difficulty, 
etc.), this type of problem belongs to a 
multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) 
problem. In this study, a new MCDM approach 
is designed based on the concept of both 
TOPSIS and linear assignment methods. The 
proposed MCDM approach consists of the 
following three steps: construct a weighted 
normalized decision matrix, establish an 
aggreagted dissatisfaction matrix, and formulate 
a fuzzy linear programming problem. The 
proposed MCDM merthod can indicate the final 
ranking of each prototype product and assists 
product developers to select the best prototype 
product for production. 
4. Case study 
5 
an electronic company in southern Taiwan to 
design a new product. The result indicates that 
the development time has been reduced about 
30% than before. The complete research result 
was published in the following journal: 
 
Hao-Tien Liu and Chih-Hong Wang (2010), “An 
advanced quality function deployment model 
using fuzzy analytic network process,” Applied 
Mathematical Modeling, Vol. 34, No. 11, pp. 
3333-3351. (NSC 98-2221-E-214-036) (EI, 
SCI)  
表 Y04 
一、會議參加經過 
由 International Business Academics Consortium (iBAC)與 Academy of Taiwan 
Information Systems Research (ATISR)所主辦的 2010 國際商業與資訊研討會（The 2010 
International Conference on Business and Information），於 2010 年七月五日至七月七日在
日本的北九州市舉行，此次會議共有全球超過 28 個國家之相關學者與業界人士參與，
會議地點為市中心的 Rihga Royal Hotel Kokura，投稿之論文摘要共 630 篇，最後收錄
471篇論文，分成 74個場次於七月五日至七月七日三天中發表。此次會議主題涵蓋會計
與財務、管理資訊系統、行銷、作業管理與工業工程、組織行為與人力資源管理、科技
與創新管理等領域。本次會議與會學者超過四百七十多人，本人有幸參與此次研討會發
表論文並與其他學者交換心得，實在是獲益匪淺。 
    本人於 7 月五日由台北出發前往北九州市，北九州市是一個正在崛起的新興城市。
此次研討會在北九州市中心的 Rihga Royal 酒店內舉行，旁邊緊鄰著商辦大樓、購物中
心，可說是北九州市最繁華熱鬧的地方。 
在這三天的研討會中，本人親臨會場，聆聽來自全球各地專家學者的論文發表，並
於會議第三天下午於作業管理與工業工程(K4)場次發表個人的研究成果，「運用模糊網
路層級分析與品質機能展開法於產品設計」，本研究主要是針對傳統品質機能展開法並
無法有效考慮各因素內部與外部相關性等缺失。本研究發展一模糊網路層級分析法能有
效評估各因素內部與外部之相關性，計算出精準的工程特性權重，找出重要的工程特
性，輔助產品研發人員快速的研發新產品，最後將本研究方法應用於實際案例中，實例
結果分析顯示出本研究方法能提供較正確的結果與更多有用的資訊。在發表論文後，與
會學者多加以肯定，有些學者更提出一些建設性的建議。除此，本人亦在這三天的研討
會中，挑選有興趣的場次加以聆聽與討論，如作業管理與工業工程主題之相關場次，其
中有些學者提出一些創新的理論，令本人獲益良多。 
 
本次北九州之旅除了三天的會議外，本人更利用開會後閒餘時間，參觀北九州各處
景點，其中豪斯登堡的荷蘭式建築、太宰府天滿宮的古意盎然、阿蘇火山的雄偉壯觀，
皆令本人留下深刻的印象。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
在本次會議中，來自世界各地的專家與學者，皆利用這一年一度的盛會，做精彩的
研究報告，讓與會學者分享他們最新的研究內容與成果，並與在場學者們交換彼此的研
究成果與心得。 
 
除此，本次研討會共有超過四百七十篇的論文於會中發表，其中在決策分析、模糊
理論、管理資訊系統、作業管理、工業工程等領域，皆有非常優秀的論文發表，對未來
本人的研究與計畫將有很大的助益。 
 
最後值得一提的是，在本次研討會中，有極多位國內專家與學者，參與此次盛會並
發表論文，顯示出國內在商業管理與資訊科學領域，有著顯著的研究成果，值得肯定。 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 進階探索模糊品質機能展開之研究
計畫主持人: 劉浩天
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-214-036- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
