high performance optical switching system is the high speed optical switch and efficient 
buffering system. In this subproject, we developed a high speed all-optical packet 
switching and buffering system (OPS). The developed OPS architecture is with 
wavelength routing schemes, which are based on wavelength converters, to convert the 
incoming optical packets to the prescribed wavelengths according to the traffic control, 
and wavelength selective routers, to route the wavelength-converted optical packets to the 
corresponding optical buffers which may be achieved by fiber delay line (FDL) or slow 
light components to obtain appropriate buffering time. In this project, we proposed an 
efficient OPS by adopting a periodic wavelength arrangement in a wavelength routing 
device, arrayed waveguide grating (AWG), to efficiently routed the packet to the desired 
optical buffers and output ports. In such an OPS architecture, the complexity of the traffic 
controller, which strongly depends on the number of active devices employed in the OPS, 
can be gigantically reduced, therefore, the signal interference, coming from the active 
devices, can also be diminish. 
Sub-project 3: 
In this paper we propose to construct a flexible delay line with maximum delay d by 
parallel nonovertaking delay lines. We show that for a fixed number of non-overtaking 
delay lines, an optimal policy to minimize packet losses is to assign arriving packets to 
the nonovertaking delay line that has the largest residual service time while maintaining 
the FIFO order for each nonovertaking delay lines. Based on this optimal policy we show 
that to exactly emulate an flexible delay line, one needs ⌈(d+1)/2⌉ non-overtaking delay 
lines. We also show that if one can tolerate a small packet loss probability, one just needs 
O(√d) non-overtaking delay lines. In this case, we show that the residual service times of 
the nonovertaking delay lines behaved as if they followed the order statistics of uniform 
random variables. 
Sub-project 4: 
Routing and wavelength assignment is an important issue in all-optical WDDM 
networks. Alternate routing is a simple and effective routing scheme. This is a three year 
project. In the first year of the project, we proposed a new fixed-alternate routing 
algorithm for all-optical WDM networks without wavelength conversion in order to 
reduce the connection blocking probability. In the second year, we proposed a new 
dynamic-alternate routing algorithm in all-optical WDM networks without wavelength 
conversion. In the third year, we proposed a method to find a set of link-disjoint routing 
paths between each source-destination pair to be used by an alternate routing algorithm in 
order to reduce the connection blocking probability. 
Sub-project 5: 
With advances in optical Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) technologies and 
its potential of providing virtually unlimited bandwidth, optical WDM networks have 
simulation, which is beneficial to achieve threshold-less laser source in PIC when served 
as the mirror of microcavity. A CPhC C2 microcavity sustaining high Q WG6, 1 mode is 
designed by numerical simulations. From the well-fabricated devices, WG6, 1 single-mode 
lasing actions with low threshold of 0.13 mW and high Q factor of 9,500 are obtained. 
(Fig. 1) 
 
Fig. 1: (a) Scheme of CPhC C2 microcavity and the simulated WG6, 1 mode profile in electric field. (b) 
Tilted- and top-view SEM pictures of fabricated CPhC C2 microcavity array. (c) L-L curve (left) and spectra 
of near (center) and above (right) threshold of WG6, 1 mode lasing action at 1520 nm from a typical CPhC 
C2 microcavity. 
 
(2). PhC Circular-Shaped CD2 Microcavity with High Q WG Mode 
Due to the irregular CPhC lattice structure above, for the purpose of integration in 
PhC-based PICs, we propose the circular-shaped D2 (CD2) microcavity boundary on a 
PhC microcavity and enhance a high Q WG mode in it. From well-fabricated devices and 
simulated results, we obtain and identify the enhanced WG6, 1 single-mode lasing with 
low threshold and high measured Q factor of 10,000. (Fig. 2) 
 
Fig. 2: Scheme and cavity design of PhC CD2 microcavity modified from PhC D2 microcavity. The 
simulated well-sustained WG6, 1 mode profile in electric field is also shown. 
(3). Square-PhC D0 Nanocavity with Ultra-Small WG Mode Volume 
time. (Fig. 4) 
 
Fig. 4: (a) Typical L-L curve of 12-fold QPhC D2 microcavity with nano-post size D of 830 nm. (b) Typical 
spectra above and below threshold at wavelength of 1485 nm. The measured spectral line-width below 
threshold is 0.18 nm. 
 
(2). PhC CD2 Microcavity Laser with Uniform Coupling Properties 
Due to the presence of WG6, 1 mode in PhC CD2 microcavity we proposed previously, 
by inserting additional waveguides, we also investigate and confirm its uniform coupling 
behaviors in different waveguide-cavity-waveguide geometries in both FDTD 
simulations and experiments. In simulation, uniform high transmission can be achieved in 
different waveguide geometries, as shown in Table I. This directional uniform high 
transmission properties are beneficial to design waveguide-cavity-waveguide structures 
in planar PIC applications, especially for those that need multiple input / output ports. 
(Fig. 5) 
 
Fig. 5: (a) Scheme of waveguide-cavity-waveguide coupling system based on PhC CD2 microcavity with 
different waveguide geometries. (b) Simulated propagating field distribution of A6 type coupler with r/a 
ratio of 0.36. 
 
 
 
Table I: Optimized transmissions and wavelengths of different waveguide-cavity-waveguide geometries 
named A1 to A10 type. 
Type     Transmission   Wavelength    Type     Transmission   Wavelength 
and QPhC microcavities. 
 
(1). Photonic Molecules Composed by Coupled 12-Fold Quasi-PhC Microcavities 
We firstly investigate and demonstrate the PMs composed by 12-fold QPhC twin- and 
triple-microcavities. In well-fabricated devices, lasing actions from bonding and 
anti-bonding modes are obtained and addressed. This basic design is regarded as the 
basic unit and can be further extended to be chain-type as CROW devices, which can be 
used for optical buffer line in PIC. 
By non-uniform carrier injection conditions, the QPhC PM shows the bonding and 
anti-bonding mode-switching behavior, which also shows the possibility of optical 
bi-stable behavior. (Figs. 7 & 8) 
 
Fig. 7: (a) Lasing spectrum of AA-, AB-, and BB-modes. (b) The plot of simulated AA-, AB-, and BB-modes 
frequency versus QPhC r/a ratio. The measured results match with the simulated results quite well. (c) 
Scheme of CROW device based on a series of 12-fold QPhC D2 microcavities. 
 
 
Fig. 8: (Left) The scheme of non-uniform carrier injection of 12-fold QPC twin-microcavity. (Right) The 
mode switching between bonding and anti-bonding modes under different non-uniform pumping conditions. 
 
functionalities. However, more active devices introduce more signal degradations, such as 
ASE accumulation in wavelength conversion, limited high speed switching extinction in 
monolithic optical switch and signal chirping in slow light buffers [7-9]. Moreover, more 
active devices require more control signals, which complicate the design of the traffic 
controller. Therefore, it’s an important design issue in an OPS to reduce the required 
active components, while retain a flexible switching functionality. In this project, by 
utilizing the decomposed algorithm of delayed time and adopting a periodic wavelength 
arrangement between the optical buffering unit and output ports, we propose buffer 
multiplexing based and routing multiplexing based all optical packet switch. 
The key components adopted in proposed architecture are illustrate as follow, 
Array waveguide grating router，AWGR 
Arrayed waveguide gratings (AWG) shown in Fig. 1 is commonly used as optical 
(de)multiplexers in wavelength division multiplexed (WDM) systems. These devices are 
capable of multiplexing a large number of wavelengths into a single optical fiber, thereby 
increasing the transmission capacity of optical networks considerably. The devices are 
based on a fundamental principle of optics that light waves of different wavelengths 
interfere linearly with each other. This means that, if each channel in an optical 
communication network makes use of light of a slightly different wavelength, then the 
light from a large number of these channels can be carried by a single optical fiber with 
negligible crosstalk between the channels. The AWGs are used to multiplexing channels 
of several wavelengths onto a single optical fiber at the transmission end and are also 
used as de-multiplexers to retrieve individual channels of different wavelengths at the 
receiving end of an optical communication network. 
 
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of arrayed waveguide grating router. 
Wavelength converter, 
The key component, wavelength converter, and the main function, traffic control 
processor, are achieved by the comprising of a SOA-MZI (Alphion: ISM4) and a fast 
tunable laser based on SGDBR (Intune: AltoWave 1100) controlled by Field 
Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) development system (Xilinx: Virtex-II PRO). A 
where 1 21 2ki i i n≤ < < < ≤ −L . The decomposition is started from the largest delay line 
with delay dn-2. If x is not smaller than dn-2, then the (n – 2)th delay line is selected. We 
then subtract dn-2 from x and compare it with the second largest delay line with delay dn-3. 
If the remaining value is still not smaller than dn-3, the second largest delay line is also 
selected. The process is then repeated until we have a decomposition of x as in (2). Unlike 
the decomposition, the routing of a packet is started from the smallest delay line. The 
packet arriving at time t is routed to the delay line with delay
1i
d at time t, to the delay line 
with delay
2i
d at time 
1i
t d+ , ..., and to the delay line with delay
ki
d at time 1
1 l
k
il
t d−
=
+∑ .The 
maximum buffer size that could be achieved is (2(n-2) – 1) when di is set to be 2i-1 for all i 
= 1, 2, ..., n – 2. 
In our system demonstration, two non-return-to-zero (NRZ) packet sequences a0(t) 
and a1(t) with fixed packet length of 150 ns and 50-ns guard time, which is limited by the 
switching speed (~ 30 ns) of the tunable laser, were synchronously generated by two pulse 
pattern generators at 10 Gbps with PRBS of (231 – 1) pattern length and were both 
modulated at 1552.52 nm (193.1 THz) individually. An FPGA was used to generate the 
associated wavelength control signals for all fast tunable lasers according to the arriving 
packet traffic and the stored packet status in the fiber delay lines. An SOA is integrated at 
each input and output port of the SOA-MZI to compensate the link loss arising from 
routing packets through the AWG and the fiber delay lines. The input power of each WC 
is set to be about –4 dBm to guarantee satisfactory wavelength conversion performance. A 
3R optical receiving system, with 10 Gbps back-to-back sensitivity of -20 dBm at BER = 
10-10, was used to measure the performance of our construction.  
 
Fig. 3. Schematic diagram of the proposed buffer multiplexing based all optical packet switch 
 Fig. 6. Schematic diagram and wavelength assignment of the proposed architecture. 
The proposed routing multiplexing based all optical packet switch architecture is 
schematically shown in Fig. 6. At each input port, a TWC is used to convert each optical 
input packet to a prescribed wavelength assigned by the traffic control according to the 
specifically scheduled time delay and planned output port. Followed by N-to-1 combiner, 
a three-port optical circulator is employed to couple all arriving packets from the input 
ports into the optical buffer. The required optical buffer is achieved by assembling FDLs 
and WFBGs, which can be achieved by either wideband multichannel fiber Bragg 
gratings (MFBG) [11] or sampled fiber Bragg gratings (SFBG) [12]. Taking the reflecting 
nature of the FBGs, each packet travels through the optical delay lines back and forth 
once, thus each fiber delay segment only needs to provide half-packet delay time. To 
provide M-1 buffer size, we employ M-1 fiber delay lines and M WFBGs, each 
individually reflects a set of wavelengths within one free spectral range (FSR) of the 
output AWG. At the output, by utilizing the filtering and FSR characteristics of AWG, 
each output port of the AWG is functioned as a periodic optical filter spaced by an FSR in 
optical frequency domain. Therefore, the buffered optical packets are routed to the 
designated output port through the 1xN AWG.  
Table 1. Wavelength Arrangement of Optical Buffers and Output Ports. 
 
Delay 0 
time slot 
Delay 1 
time slot 
Delay 2 
time slot 
…….. 
Delay 
M-1 
time slot 
Output port 1 11 21 31 …….. M1 
Output port 2 12 22 32 …….. M2 
Output port 3 13 23 33 …….. M3 
        
  
  
Output port N 1N 2N 3N …….. MN 
In order to demonstrate the de-multiplexing function, packets in the single input port a0(t) 
are employed. Besides, to reveal the correctness of the de-multiplexing function at the 
two output ports, the arriving packets are arranged with different packet lengths, 
accordingly, as shown in Fig. 8(a). The input packet signals and the related outcomes after 
de-multiplex operation is experimentally displayed in Fig. 8(b). 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 8. De-multiplexing: (a) wavelength arrangement and (b) experimental demonstration 
of the proposed OPS. 
The measured BER curves are shown in Fig. 9. Since we employed large amount of 
passive optical components, the proposed OPS architecture exhibits excellent 
performance with only about 1dB power penalty at BER = 10-10, which is mainly 
introduce by the essential active optical component, TWC. 
 
Fig. 9. Measured BER curves for the proposed OPS architecture 
III. Comparative analysis 
We conduct a comparative study through the complexity comparison between the 
proposed scheme and several previously published architectures, including recirculating 
type [2, 3], feed forward type [4], feedback type [5], and MFBG type [6], in terms of 
required tunable components, control complexity, and physical loss. In considering a 
storage capacity of M optical buffers and a system scaled with N input/output ports, the 
delay line (NDL) with maximum delay d if it realizes the set of sample paths that satisfy 
(1) and 
 
for all n. In queueing terminology, a flexible delay line is an infinite-server queue and a 
non-overtaking delay line is a first-in-first-out (FIFO) queue with known departure times. 
Among the classical switches, a flexible delay line corresponds to a strict sense 
nonblocking switch. A non-overtaking delay line corresponds to a Unimodal-Unimodal 
nonblocking switch [8].  
The best known construction of an FDL with maximum delay d is by Cantor networks. 
The construction complexity is O((log d)2) 2 × 2 optical switches [5]. However, the 
routing of packets in this construction is very complicated. On the other hand, the 
construction of NDLs is simple and efficient. The construction complexity is only O(log d) 
2× 2 optical switches. In addition, the routing of packets through the construction is 
very simple. Packets are self-routed through the construction. In this paper we propose to 
construct an FDL with maximum delay d by parallel NDLs (Figure 1). We show that for a 
fixed number of NDLs B, an optimal policy to minimize packet losses is to assign arriving 
packets to the NDL that has the largest residual service time while maintaining the FIFO 
order for each NDL. Based on this optimal policy we show that to exactly emulate an 
FDL, one needs ⌈(d+1)/2⌉ NDLs. We also show that if one can tolerate a small packet 
loss probability, one just needs O(√d) NDLs. In the latter case, we show that the residual 
service times of the non-overtaking delay lines behaved as if they followed the order 
statistics of uniform random variables. In either case, the routing of packets is very 
simple. 
This paper is organized as follows. In Section II we show that the policy that selects 
the NDL with largest residual service time while maintaining the FIFO order for all NDLs 
is optimal in minimizing the number of lost packets. In Section III we show that one 
needs ⌈(d+1)/2⌉ NDLs to exactly emulate an FDL. In Section IV we show that one just 
needs O(√d) NDLs if a small packet loss probability is allowed. Finally, the conclusion 
of this paper is given in Section VI. 
II. OPTIMAL POLICY 
In this paper we consider a system of B parallel nonovertaking delay lines (NDLs) 
that emulate or approximate a flexible delay line (FDL). Please see Figure 1 for a 
diagrammatic illustration. Each non-overtaking delay line and the flexible delay line 
allow maximum delay d. Specifically, new packets arrive at the parallel NDLs. Each 
packet requests a delay in the range from zero to d. There is at most one packet arrival in 
each time slot and packets request delay in such a way that at most one packet departs 
flexible delay line is that a flexible delay line allows at most one packet to depart in each 
time slot. Therefore, d(t) 6= i, if si(t) = 1. Then we have the following recursive 
equation 
 
for i = 0, 1, . . . , d − 2. In addition, sd−1(t + 1) = 0 if d(t) 6= d. Non-overtaking 
delay lines have a similar dynamics. Consider the ith NDL in Figure 1 and let vi(t) be a 
1 × d vector. Let vi,j(t) be the jth entry of vi(t). if there is a packet scheduled to 
depart from the NDL at time t + j, then vi,j(t) = 1. Otherwise, vi,j(t) = 0. Define 
 
If vi,j(t) = 0 for all j, ri(t) is defined to be zero. We call ri(t) the residual service time 
of the ith NDL at time t. The residual service time of an NDL at time t is  
 
the time interval from now to the instant when the NDL becomes idle if no future arrivals 
to this NDL occur. Let r(t) be a 1 × B vector where the ith entry is ri(t). An arriving 
packet with requested delay d(t) can only be admitted into the ith NDL if d(t) > ri(t) in 
order not to violate constraint (3). Therefore, if a new arriving packet is admitted into the 
ith NDL, the dynamics of the ith NDL is as follows 
service times is r(t) at time t. Let Lπ(r(t1), t1, t2) be the accumulated number of lost 
packets in interval [t1, t2], i.e. 
 
We remark that in the rest of this paper we are interested only in feasible sample paths. 
Since the arrival and departure instants are generated by a feasible sample path, packets 
are dropped by the parallel NDLs only due to lack of NDLs. Thus, in our analysis, we do 
not need to keep the detail state information that is described in (4) and (6). One just 
needs to keep track of the residual service times of the NDLs.  
The following theorem is the main result of this section. 
 
for any best effort policy π, 0 ≤ t1 ≤ t2 and any initial residual service time vector 
r(t1). 
III. EXACT EMULATION 
The main objective of this section is to study the number of NDLs that are needed to 
emulate an FDL with maximum delay d exactly. The main result is stated in the following 
theorem. 
Theorem 2 A system of B parallel non-overtaking delay lines with B ≥ ⌈(d+1)/2⌉ can 
emulate exactly a flexible delay line with maximum delay d, if the non-overtaking 
delay lines adopt policy π⋆ and start from an empty system. We remark that Theorem 2 
holds if the arrival and departure instants are generated by an infeasible sample path. We 
remark that since policy π⋆ minimizes the number of lost packets for any feasible 
sample path, it needs the least number of NDLs to avoid any packet loss among all best 
effort policies. Thus, ⌈(d + 1)/2⌉ is the minimum number of NDLs in order to emulate an 
FDL with maximum delay d. 
IV. APPROXIMATION 
In the last section we show that to emulate exactly a flexible delay line with maximum 
delay d, one needs ⌈(d +1)/2⌉ non-overtaking delay lines. In practice, one may not need 
to exactly emulate a flexible delay line. If one uses less than ⌈(d + 1)/2⌉ NDLs, packets 
can be lost due to insufficient NDLs. One may be able to tolerate a small packet loss 
probability and uses a smaller number of non-overtaking delay lines. In Figure 3 we show 
the number of NDLs needed in order to achieve 10−5 packet loss probability assuming 
system in Figure 1 with policy π⋆ is very complicated. One needs to include the residual 
service times of all existing packets in the state description. This makes it a very 
complicated Markov chain. In this section we ignore the constraint on single arrival and 
departure per time slot. Let Xi(t) be the residual service time of the ith NDL at time t. 
We have Xi(t) > Xi+1(t) for all t. Let Yi(t) = Xi−1(t) − Xi(t) for i = 2, 3, . . . ,B and 
Y1(t) = d + 1 − X1(t). We approximate the residual service times of the NDLs by the 
model described as follows. Consider an interval between A and B that has length d + 1 as 
shown in Figure 5. Denote this interval by AB. Segment AB into consecutive subintervals 
of lengths Y1(t), Y2(t) and so on. The values of X1(t),X2(t), . . . , are also shown on 
the figure as well. In each time slot, two events occur to the model. First, an 
integer-valued random variable d(t) uniformly distributed in [0, d] is drawn and placed 
on AB. Suppose that as shown in Figure 5 d(t) falls in the interval Yi(t). The right end 
point of the interval Yi(t) is moved to the point where d(t) falls and the thick interval 
designates the new value for Yi(t + 1). This event corresponds to the arrival of a new 
packet. In the second type of events, the end points of the intervals Y1(t), Y2(t) and so on, 
are moved to the right by one unit. This event corresponds to the time advancement in 
Definition 2. As a result, the length of the first interval Y1(t) is incremented by one slot, 
that of the last subinterval near point B is decremented by one and those of the rest 
intervals are unchanged. 
We now derive a dynamic equation for the process Yi(t). Consider three disjoint 
events: the delay request d(t) of a new arriving packet falls in interval Yi(t), d(t) falls in 
interval Yi
−1(t) and that d(t) does not fall in Yi(t) nor in Yi−1(t). From Figure 5 it is 
obvious that these three cases correspond equivalently to that d(t) is in the interval 
(Xi(t),Xi
−1(t)), d(t) is in the interval (Xi−1(t),Xi−2(t)), and d(t) is in the union [0,Xi(t)) 
∪ (Xi
−2(t), d + 1], respectively. Thus, based on decomposing the total probability space 
according to these three disjoint events, we have  
 
The first term in (11) corresponds to the case where d(t) falls in interval Yi(t) (see Figure 
5). In this case Yi(t+1) is the thick interval in Figure 5 and clearly 
 
The second term in (11) corresponds to the case where d(t) falls in interval Yi−1(t). In 
this case, 
 
 To obtain an expression for the conditional expectations and the probabilities of 
conditions in (17), we approximate and assume that Yi(t) = yi for all i. Now consider the 
two terms in the first product on the right hand side of (17). We approximate the two 
terms by 
 
To see the motivation for (18), note that the condition in (18) is equivalent to that d(t) 
falls within the interval Yi(t). According to the earlier discussion, the new value Yi(t+1) is 
one half of the old value Yi(t). Note that we assume that Yi(t) = yi. Thus, we obtain (18). 
To obtain an approximation for the probability in (19), we note that d(t) is uniformly 
distributed over [0, d]. Thus, one has (19). Based on the same argument, we approximate 
the expectation of Yi(t + 1) conditioned on the event that d(t) falls in interval Yi−1(t). 
Specifically,  
 
Finally, we approximate the expectation of Yi(t + 1) conditioned on the event that d(t) 
does not fall in interval Yi(t) nor in interval Yi
−1(t) by  
E[Yi(t + 1) | d(t) < Xi(T) or d(t) > Xi
−2(t)] ≈ yi.(22) 
We approximate the probability of the condition by 
 
We substitute Eqs. (18-23) to (17) and invoke the stationarity assumption on yi to obtain 
 
With the same argument we can show that if yi is the last interval on AB, then (24) is 
 Next we study the effect of delay distributions to the expected residual service times. 
Consider a normal distribution that has the same mean and variance as that of a random 
variable uniformly distributed on [0, d]. We then truncate and normalize the normal 
distribution to the range [0, d] and use it to generate requested delays. In Figure 8 we 
show the expected residual service times of various numbers of NDLs. We see that 
although the delays are normally distributed, the residual service times are as if they 
follow the order statistics of uniform random variables. The expected residual service 
times decrease linearly. We then draw the expected residual service times for uniformly 
distributed requested delays versus normally distributed delays in Figure 9. From this 
figure, we conjecture that the residual service time is insensitive to the delay distributions. 
We draw the number of NDLs needed in order to achieve less than or equal to 10−5 loss 
probability in Figure 10 assuming that delay has a normal distribution. From this figure, 
we conjecture that the number of NDLs needed to approximate an FDL is insensitive to 
the delay distributions. Finally, we show the packet loss probability as a function of B in 
Figure 11 for d = 2000. From this figure we see that the packet loss probability is 
insensitive to the distribution of the requested delay. Moreover, the packet loss 
probability decreases very rapidly as B is near O(√d). 
 
動態替用式繞徑（dynamic-alternate routing）[6]。這兩種方法主要的不同之處在
於如何選擇路徑建立 lightpath。 
在本年度計劃的研究中，困難之處也是關鍵之處主要有兩個:第一，connection 
blocking probability 的計算十分困難，這是因為不同光纖上波長的使用狀況是互相
相關的，而且同一光纖上經過的不同路徑之間也互相相關。第二，同一個
source-destination pair 的多條路徑如何適當的排序或適當的選擇以便建立
connection，這個問題的困難點也在於不同 source-destination pairs 的路徑會互相影
響。所以本計劃要做的是要能突破以上的困難，提出關鍵的解決方法。 
在第一年和第二年的計劃中，我們在沒有波長轉換器的光纖網路中，分別提
出了新的固定替用式繞徑方法及新的動態替用式繞徑方法，並經由模擬結果可
知，我們提出的方法能大量降低 connection blocking probability。 
在第三年計畫中，我們對固定替用式繞徑與動態替用式繞徑，提出一種新的
選取路徑方法，並經由模擬結果可知，我們提出的方法可以降低更多的 connection 
blocking probability。 
在本計劃中，我們在沒有波長轉換器的光纖網路中，針對動態替用繞徑
（dynamic-alternate routing）、固定替用繞徑（fixed-alternate routing）以及選取路
徑，分別提出新的方法。我們的目標是要能降低 connection blocking probability。
我們的主要概念為找到網路上的最佳流量分配，並依此最佳流量分配設計新的固
定替用式繞徑方法、新的動態替用式繞徑方法及路徑的選取，藉此降低 connection 
blocking probability。 
我們的第一步，在於尋找網路上的最佳化流量分配。在給定網路拓樸、每一
個 source-destination pair，和其相對應的多條路徑以及每一個 source destination 的
average connection request arrival rate 和 average holding time，我們希望能找到一種
網路上最佳的流量分配，使得 connection blocking probability 能夠最小。 
然而，在全光式光纖網路上，想要精確計算 connection blocking probability 是
很困難的。在文獻[21][27][32][33][37][38][[40][47]中，多種數值方法被用來估計
connection blocking probability。因此，想直接用 connection blocking probability 當
作 objective function 是很困難的，在我們的研究中，我們採用了和 connection 
blocking probability 相近的 approximate total amount of blocked traffic intensity 當作
我們的 objective function。於是，整個問題可以被規劃成為一個 nonlinear 
multicommodity flow optimization problem，而我們使用的 objective function 也被證
明為 convex function，因此，我們可以使用標準的非線性規劃工具，例如 flow 
deviation method，來解出能使 connection blocking probability 最小之流量分配。 
固定式繞徑（fixed-alternate routing）的運作方式為一個 source-destination pair
的路徑有一到多條固定的路徑，這些路徑依照某一方式排序。當一個建立
connection 的要求抵達時，這些路徑依他們的排序一個接一個檢查，第一條能夠提
供給此 connection 足夠資源的路徑將被選用。當所有路徑都被檢查過，而沒有任
以 s 為起點，d 為終點的 mean connection request arrival rate 被定義為 λ(s,d)，
arrival process 則符合 Poisson distribution。而 1/µ 則是符合 Exponential distribution
的 mean holding time。所以 source-destination pair (s,d)的 traffic intensity 被定義為
ρ(s,d)= λ(s,d)/ µ。 
在我們的最佳化問題中，流量將被依某個比例分配到每一條 routing path 上。
令在 source-destination pair (s,d)間的 routing path p(s,d,k)所分配到的 mean 
connection arrival rate 為       λ(s,d,k)，則可得到下列式子。 
 
則在 routing path p(s,d,k)上的 traffic intensity 為 ρ(s,d,k)= λ(s,d,k)/ µ。 
    令會在光纖 lij 上試圖建立 connection 的總流量為 γij，可由下列式子得到： 
 
其中 
 
Iiij(s,d,k)所代表的是一個指示光纖 lij 是否在 S(s,d,k)上的變數，若是，則變數設為 1，
反之，則為 0。 
令 ρij=γij/µ 為光纖 lij 上的 traffic intensity，而在光纖 lij 上的 blocking probability
為 Bij。 
    之前已經提過，想要直接用 connection blocking probability 當作 objective 
function 是很困難的。因此，我們採用另一種和 connection blocking probability 很
接近的 objective function：approximate total amount of blocked traffic intensity 當作
我們的 objective function。接下來是 Objective function 的設計。 
    因為要直接計算 connection blocking probability 的困難點，主要來自同一條
routing path 上，光纖與光纖之間流量的相依性，以及在不同的 source-destination 
pairs 使用某些相同光纖時，也會產生互相的影響，所以想要精確計算 connection 
blocking probability 是很困難的。在這個計劃中，我們採用過去文獻中所使用的
link-independent assumption，用忽略光纖與光纖之間的相依性來估計 connection 
blocking probability。 
    在一個光纖 lij 上，當 connection arrival rate 是由多個 Poisson distribution 的
substream 所組成時，所組成的 arrival stream 也是一個 Poisson arrival process。而
connection 的 holding time 為符合 exponential 分配。在光纖上共有 C 個波長可以使
用，當沒有波長可以使用時，接下來的 connection request 將會被 block。這樣的特
  我們也同時證明了 approximate total amount of blocked traffic intensity 對於 γij 是
convex function，因此只要我們找到了 local optimum 時，這個 local optimum 也是
global optimum[41]。我們可以使用任何的 nonlinear optimization 工具，例如 flow 
deviation method[16]解這個最佳化問題。 
    在獲得使 connection blocking probability 最小的流量分配時，每一個
source-destination pair 的每一條 routing path 也都被分配了流量，我們計畫的第一
年所提出的固定式繞徑方法，就是依照流量由大至小對這個 source-destination pair
的 routing paths做排序。當 connection request抵達時，就依這個順序找到有 common 
available wavelength 的路徑以建立 connection。 
在動態替用式繞徑上，在地化的第二年，我們依照這個流量分配，提出新的動
態替用式繞徑方法如下： 
1. 當建立 connection 的要求抵達時，先收集每一條路徑上的波長使用資訊。若
一條路徑 p(s,d,k)有 common available wavelength，則將 設為 1，反之
則設為 0。  
2. 若沒有任何一條路徑有 common available wavelength，則阻斷此要求。否則，
前往第 3 步。 
3. 如果所有擁有 common available wavelength 的路徑在最小 blocking probability
的流量分配中，被分配的流量都為 0 時，則選擇最少 hop count 的路徑建立
lightpath。否則，前往第 4 步。 
4. 對每一條路徑，計算一個選取路徑的機率分配。令 ρ*(s,d,k)為最佳流量分配
時，在 p(s,d,k)上分配的流量。則選取路徑的機率分配 τ(s,d,k)如下：
 
5. 最後，依此機率分配選取建立 lightpath 的路徑。 
然而，利用 modified flow deviation method 求解最佳化問題所找到的路徑，在
不同 source-destination pair 間可能彼此有共用 link 的情況。為了降低 connection 
blocking probability，再計畫的第三年，我們對每個 source-destination pair 從
modified flow deviation method 求解得的路徑集合中找出一到多個可以負載最大的
traffic intensity 的 link-disjoint 路徑，使得 connection blocking probability 降低。 
首先，令P
∧
(s,d)為 modified flow deviation method 找的路徑集合，表示如下： 
 我們可以使用標準的 0-1 整數規劃方法解這個最佳化問題。 
Sub-project 5: 
1. Problem Formulation 
Given a physical topology and call arrival rates for all source-destination pairs, we 
determine the working and backup routes, such that the maximum call blocking 
probability on the most congested link is minimized while meet the survivability 
constraints. We assume the call setup requests follow Poisson arrival and with same 
exponential holding time. In addition, there are wavelength converters allocated in each 
node such that the backup path can use different wavelengths to protect its working 
channels. 
The model is as follows. 
 
 
Model (MINLP):     
Min  β    Given:  
 L: 
Cl: 
 
Ψ : 
Pψ : 
ψλ : 
lR : 
lQ : 
 
plδ : 
H : 
set of optical links; 
physical capacity (number of WDM 
channels) on link l; 
the set of source-destination (SD) 
pairs; 
candidate path set for SD pair ψ ; 
Poisson arrival rate for SD pair ψ ; 
upper bound of traffic arrival rate for 
link l; 
backup path set to protect link l; 
=1, if path p includes link l; =0, 
otherwise; 
backup path hop count limitation; 
s.t. 1p
p P
x
ψ∈
=∑
 
, ψ∀ ∈Ψ  (1)  
 
px =1 or 0       , ,p Pψ ψ∀ ∈ ∀ ∈Ψ   (2)  
 
 
l lp pl ql
p P l L l L
x a a
ψ
δ δ
∈ ∈ ∈
≤∑∑ ∑  , ,p Pψ ψ∀ ∈ ∀ ∈Ψ  (3)  
 
+
 Zla ∈  , l L∀ ∈  (4)  
 
 p pl l
p P l L
x r
ψ
ψδ λ
∈ ∈
≤∑∑  
, l L∀ ∈  (5)  
 
( , )  l lN r wβ ≤  , l L∀ ∈  (6)  
 
0 l lr R≤ ≤  , l L∀ ∈  (7)  
( , )lN rβ : number of working channels required to 
satisfy the blocking probability β under 
arrival rate rl; 
 1
l
q
q Q
y
∈
=∑
 
, l L∀ ∈  (8)  
Decision Variables:  
β : blocking probability on the most congested link; 
 SAWA uses bi-section technique to gradually reduce the target blocking probability. 
Initially, we input the blocking probability upper bound (PUB), blocking probability lower 
bound (PLB), maximum iterations (max_iter), time-varying temperature (T),  temperature 
decrement ε (0.8 ≤≤ ε 0.99), tolerance ( ∆ ), departure rate ( ψµ ) and arrival rate ( ψλ ) for 
each pair Ψ∈ψ , link weight variation parameter (k), target blocking probability (Ptar), 
backup path set to protect link/node (Q), and the number of lightpaths which cannot be 
protected (Cannot_SurvPath) (see line 1-2 of Fig. 1). For outer loop, while the gap 
between PUB and PLB is large than tolerance, set each link’s weight (al) as 100, collect 
overall al into set Al and set iteration number as 1 (iter =1). For inner loop, while iter less 
than max_iter, select a link randomly and increase its weight by an integer t, t∈[-k, k] and 
store the set of current overall link weights as Al’. We then run Dijkstra’s shortest path 
algorithm according to Al’ and compute arrival rate for each link l ( lλ ) according to SPF 
routes. The link arrival rate is computed by equation ∑ Ψ∈= ψ ψλλ
l
l , where 
l
ψλ  means the 
carried arrival rate on link l through pair w. And, calculate the number of working 
channels on each link l ( lw ) by inverse Erlang-B formula. Through the computed lw , we 
consider each single link/node failures and traverse backup path set (Q) to compute how 
many working path cannot be repaired (i.e. Cannot_SurvPath’) (see line 3-10 of Fig. 1).  
 If the value of Cannot_SurvPath can be improved, we update Al and 
Cannot_SurvPath by Al’ and Cannot_SurvPath’ respectively. Else, generate a random 
number within [0,1], if this generated number less than exp(-(Cannot_SurvPath’ – 
Cannot_SurvPath)/T, update the set of link weighs by equation Al = Al’. (see line 11-20 of 
Fig. 1). When the inner loop finished, we replace PLB and Ptar by Ptar and (PUB+ PLB)/2 
respectively if Cannot_SurvPath large than 0. Else, replace PUB and Ptar by Ptar and (PUB+ 
PLB)/2 respectively. SAWA is terminated until the gap between PUB and PLB less than 
tolerance ∆ . 
We analyze the performance of proposed SAWA algorithm in the next section. 
3. Experimental Results 
We carried out numerical computation of β, the blocking probability on the most 
5.       While iter < max_iter 
6.             Select a link l randomly and set al = al + 
t,  
where t is a integer number within [-k, k]; 
7.             Set Al’ ={al | l L∀ ∈ }; 
8.             Calculate ∑ Ψ∈= ψ ψλλ
l
l
 by SPF 
routing; 
9.             Calculate lw  by inverse Erlang-B 
formula;  
10.             Calculate Cannot_SurvPath’; 
11.             If Cannot_SurvPath’ - Cannot_SurvPath 
≤  0 
12.                   Al = Al’; 
13.                   Cannot_SurvPath = 
Cannot_SurvPath’; 
20.       End 
21.       T = T*ε ; 
22.       If Cannot_SurvPath > 0 
23.             PLB = Ptar and Ptar = ( PUB+ PLB )/2; 
24.       Else 
25.             PUB = Ptar and Ptar = ( PUB+ PLB )/2; 
26.       End 
27. End 
Fig. 1. The pseudo code for SAWA algorithm. 
also show that if one can tolerate a small packet loss probability, one just  
 
 
needs O(√d) NDLs. In the latter case, we show that the residual service times of the 
non-overtaking delay lines behaved as if they followed the order statistics of uniform 
random variables. 
    For future work, we note that the mean value analysis presented in Section IV can 
not explain why the expected residual service times decrease linearly for nonuniform 
requested delays. The analysis assumes that there is exactly one arriving packet in each 
time slot. For future works, it is interesting to study the residual service times for systems 
with non-uniformly distributed requested delays or less than 100% loaded packet arrivals. 
Sub-project 4: 
第一年的成果，靜態替用式繞徑部份，我們使用我們所提出的 t raffic 
intensity based fixed-alternate routing 和 傳 統 的 hop count based 
fixed-alternate routing做比較。我們發現在 20個節點的網路中，我們所提
出 的 方 法 比 起 傳 統 的 方 法 ， 最 少 與 最 多 的 improvement分 別 是 38%和
52%。而在 30個節點的網路中，我們所提出的方法比起傳統的方法，最
少與最多的 improvement分別是 30%和 84%。  
第二年的成果，動態替用式繞徑部份，我們使用我們所提出的 t raffic 
intensity based dynamic-alternate routing 和 幾 個 之 前 所 提 出 的
  
3.  High blocking probability 的 source-destination pair 數 ： 一 個
source-destination pair有越多 high blocking probability link，則意味此
source-destination pair越可能被 block。模擬結果顯示，我們的方法有最
少 的 High blocking probabili ty 的 source-destination pair 數 ， 表 示
connection blocking probability也較小。如 Fig.5和 Fig.6。  
4.  Connection blocking probability方面：從模擬得知，我們的方法最
好， blocking的機率最小。如 Fig.7和 Fig.8。  
 
四、 計畫期間論文著作 
Sub-project 1: 
In the past three years, we have published 19 papers on famous international journals 
and letters, including Applied Physics Letters (SCI IF: 3.726), Optics Express (SCI 
IF: 3.880), and so on. Most of them have been cited by other groups. The statistics 
and details of SCI IF, ranking factor, and citing number of our publications are shown 
in Table II. The publication list is also provided below. 
 
Table II: The SCI IF, ranking factor, and citing number of our publications in 2006 – 
2009. 
SCI IF Distribution of 19 Publications in 2006 – 2009 
SCI IF > 
3.0 
1 2.0 < SCI IF < 
3.0 
5 SCI IF < 
2.0 
2 
SCI Ranking Factor of 19 Publications in 2006 - 2009 
< 5 % 3 > 5%, < 15 % 1
1
> 15 % 5 
Citing Number of 11 Publications in 2006 - 2008 
Total 
Citing 
4 Cited by 
Others 
3
4
Self-Citin
g 
1
5
 
 
Publication List 
(I) International Letter & Journal Articles (Based on 2008 SCI IF) 
 
1. Wei-De Ho, Tsan-Wen Lu, Yi-Hua Hsiao, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Thermal 
Properties of 12-Fold Quasi-Photonic Crystal Microcavity Laser with Size-Controlled 
Nano-Post for Electrical Driving,” IEEE J. Lightwave Technol. 27, pp. 
5302-5307(2009). (SCI IF: 2.736) 
2. Chia-Ho Chen, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Microcavity Laser Emissions 
Based on Double Hetero-Structure by Locally Modulated Photonic Crystal 
Waveguide,” IEEE J. Lightwave Technol. 27, pp. 4393-4400 (2009). (SCI IF: 2.736) 
3. Ming-Feng Chang, Po-Tsung Lee, and Albert Chin, “Low Threshold Voltage 
MoN/HfAlO/SiON p-MOSFETs with 0.85-nm EOT,” IEEE Electron. Device Lett. 30, 
pp. 861-863 (2009). (SCI IF: 3.049) 
4. Tsan-Wen Lu, Yi-Hua Hsiao, Wei-De Ho, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Photonic crystal 
hetero-slab-edge microcavity with high quality factor surface mode for index 
sensing,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 141110 (2009). (SCI IF: 3.726) 
(Selected for Virtual Journal of Nanoscale Science & Technology, Vol. 15, issue 17, 
Apr. 30, (2007)) 
16. Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Feng-Mao Tsai, “Octagonal Quasi-Photonic 
Crystal Single-Defect Micro-cavity with Whispering Gallery Mode and Condensed 
Device Size,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 19, pp. 710-712 (2007). (SCI IF: 2.173) 
(Cited: 4) 
17. Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, Feng-Mao Tsai, and Tien-Chang Lu, “Lasing 
Action of Octagonal Quasi-Periodic Photonic Crystal Micro-Cavity,” J. Jpn. Appl. 
Phys. 46, pp. 971-973 (2007). (SCI IF: 1.309) 
18. Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, Feng-Mao Tsai, and Tien-Chang Lu, 
“Investigation of whispering gallery mode dependence on cavity geometry of 
quasiperiodic photonic crystal microcavity lasers,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 231111 
(2006). (SCI IF: 3.726) (Cited: 9) 
19. Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, Feng-Mao Tsai, Tien-Chang Lu, and Hao-Chung 
Kuo, “Whispering gallery mode of modified octagonal quasi-periodic photonic 
crystal single defect microcavity and its side mode reduction,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 
201104 (2006). (SCI IF: 3.726) (Cited: 9) 
 
(II)  International Conference Papers 
 
1. Yi-Hua Hsiao, Tsan-Wen Lu, Wei-De Ho, and Po-Tsung Lee, “High-Q Photonic 
Crystal Hetero-Slab-Edge Microcavity Laser for Index Sensing,” IEEE/OSA 
CLEO/QELS’09, CTuDD4, Baltimore, Maryland, USA (2009). 
2. Wei-De Ho, Yi-Hua Hsiao, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Thermal 
Properties of Post-Size Controlled 12-Fold Quasi-Photonic Crystal Microcavity for 
Electrically-Driving,” IEEE/OSA CLEO/QELS’09, CFE4, Baltimore, Maryland, USA 
(2009). 
3. Yi-Hua Hsiao, Wei-De Ho, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Two-Dimensional 
Photonic Crystal Slab-Edge Microcavity for Index-Sensing Applications with High 
Sensitivity,” Sat-S8-01, OPT’08, Taipei, Taiwan (2008). 
4. Wei-De Ho, Yi-Hua Hsiao, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Po-Tsung Lee, “Characterization 
of Post-Size Controlled 12-Fold Quasi-Photonic Crystal Microcavity for 
Electrically-Driven Structure,” OPT’08, Taipei, Taiwan (2008). (Best Student Oral 
Paper Award) 
5. Ching-Hua Hung, Yin-Hsin Lin, Po-Tsung Lee, Hui-Lung Kuo, and Yi-Ying Lai, 
"An Electrically Tunable Liquid Crystal-polymer Phase Grating Using a 
Nano-Imprinting Method," Fri-P1-136, OPT’08, Taipei, Taiwan (2008). (Best 
Student Post Paper Award) 
6. Hsiao-Wen Zan, Cheng-Wei Chou, Po-Tsung Lee, Ho-Tsung Song, and 
IEEE/LEOS IPRM’06, Princeton, N.J., U.S.A (2006). 
18. Tsan-Wen Lu, Feng-Mao Tsai, Po-Tsung Lee, and Tien-Chang Lu, “Modified 
Octagonal Quasi-Periodic Photonic Crystal Single-Defect Micro-Cavity Lasers,” 
JWB11, CLEO/QELS’06, Long Beach, C.A., U.S.A. (2006). 
19. Feng-Mao Tsai, Po-Tsung Lee, Tsan-Wen Lu, and Tien-Chang Lu, “Fabrication 
and Characteristics of Two-Dimensional Quasi-Periodic Photonic Crystal Lasers,” 
CMKK6, CLEO/QELS’06, Long Beach, C.A., U.S.A (2006). 
五、 參考文獻 
Sub-project 2: 
1. X. Zhou, J. Yu, M.-F. Huang, Y. Shao, T. Wang, P. Magill, M. Cvijetic, L. Nelson, M. 
Birk, G. Zhang, S. Ten, H.B. Matthew, and S. K. Mishra, “32Tb/s (320x114Gb/s) 
PDM-RZ-8QAM transmission over 580km of SMF-28 ultra-low-loss fiber,” in 
Proceedings of Optical Fiber Commun. Conf. (OFC)2009, PDPB4. 
2. Y. N. Singh, A. Kushwaha, and S. K. Bose, “Exact and approximate modeling of an 
FLBM-based all optical packet switch,” J. Lightw. Technol. 21, 719-726 (2003). 
3. F. S. Choa, X. Zhao, X. Yu, J. Lin, J. P. Zhang, Y. Gu, G. Ru, G. Zhang, L. Li, H. Xiang, 
H. Hadimioglu, and H. J. Chao, “An optical packet switch based on WDM 
technologies,” J. Lightw. Technol. 23, 994-1014 (2005). 
4. C. Guillemot, M. Renaud, P. Gambini, C. Janz, I. Andonovic, R. Bauknecht, B. Bostica, 
M. Burzio, F. Callegati, M. Casoni, D. Chiaroni, F. Clerot, S. L. Danielsen, F. 
Dorgeuille, A. Dupas, A. Franzen, P. B. Hansen, D. K. Hunter, A. Kloch, R. Krahenbuhl, 
B. Lavigne, A. Le Corre, C. Raffaelli, M. Schilling, J.-C. Simon, and L. Zucchelli, 
“Transparent optical packet switching: the European ACTS KEOPS project approach,” 
J. Lightw. Technol. 16, 2117-2134 (1998). 
5. M. C. Chia, D. K. Hunter, I. Andonovic, P. Ball, I. Wright, S. P. Ferguson, K. M. Guild, 
and M. J. O’Mahony, “Packet loss and delay performance of feedback and feed forward 
array waveguide grating based optical packet switches with WDM inputs/outputs,” J. 
lightw. Technol. 19, 1241-1254(2001). 
6. R. Srivastava, R. K. Singh, and Y. N. Singh, “Fiber-optic switch based on fiber Bragg 
gratings,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 20, 1581-1583 (2008).  
7. J. Yang, N. K. Fontaine, Z. Pan, A. O. Karalar, S. S. Djordjevic, C. Yang, W. Chen, S. 
Chu, B. E. Little, and S. J. B. Yoo, “Contiunously tunable, wavelength-selective 
buffering in optical packet switching network,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 20, 
1030-1032 (2008). 
8. R. S. Tucker, P.-C. Ku, and C. J. Chang-Hasnain, “Slow-light optical buffer: capabilities 
and fundamental limitations,” J. Lightw. Technol. 23, 4046-4066 (2005). 
9. H. Yang, S. J. B. Yoo, “All-optical variable buffering strategies and switch fabric 
architectures for future all-optical data router,” J. Lightw. Technol. 23, 3321-3330 
IEEE INFOCOM, Jun. 1994, vol. 3, pp. 1498–1508. 
2. R. Bhandari, Survivable Networks: Algorithms for Diverse Routing.Norwell, MA: 
Kluwer Academic, 1999. 
3. A. Birman and A. Kershenbaum,“Routing and wavelength assignmentmethods in 
single-hop all-optical networks with blocking,” in Proc.IEEE INFOCOM, Apr. 1995, 
vol. 2, pp. 431–438. 
4. A. Birman, “Computing Approximate Blocking Probabilities for a Class of 
All-optical Networks,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 14, 
no. 5, pp. 852-857, June 1996. 
5. C. A. Brackett, “Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing Networks: Principles and 
Applications,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 8, no. 6, 
pp.948-964, August 1990. 
6. D. Cavendish, A. Kolarov, and B. Sengupta, “Routing and wavelength assignment in 
WDM mesh networks,” in Proc. IEEE GLOBECOM, Nov. 2004, vol. 2, pp. 
1016–1022. 
7. K. Chan and T. P. Yum, “Analysis of Least Congested Path Routing in WDM 
Lightwave Networks,” in Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM 1994, vol. 2, June 1994, 
pp. 962 - 969. 
8. I. Chlamtac, A. Ganz, and G. Karmi, “Lightpath Communications: An Approach to 
High Bandwidth Optical WAN’s,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 40, 
no. 7, pp. 1171-1182, July 1992. 
9. I. C. Choi and D. Goldfarb, “Solving multicommodity network flowproblems by an 
interior point method,” in Large-Scale Numerical Optimization, T. Coleman and Q. 
Li, Eds. Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1990,pp. 58–69. 
10. X. Chu and J. Liu, “DLCR: A new adaptive routing scheme in WDM mesh 
networks,” in Proc. IEEE ICC, May 2005, vol. 3, pp. 1797–1801. 
11. X. Chu and B. Li, “A Dynamic RWA Algorithm in a Wavelength-routed All-optical 
Network with Wavelength Converters,” in Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM 2003, 
vol. 3, March 2003, pp. 1795 - 1804. 
12. X. Chu and B. Li, “Dynamic Routing and Wavelength Assignment in the Presence of 
Wavelength Conversion for All-Optical Networks,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Networking, vol. 13, no. 3, June 2005, pp. 704-715. 
13. S.-P. Chung and K. W. Ross, “Reduced load approximations for multirate loss 
networks,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 41, no. 8, pp.1222–1231, Aug. 1993. 
14. A. K. Dutta, N. K. Dutta, and M. Fujiwara, WDM Technologies: Optical Networks, 
Burlington. Amsterdam, The Netherlands: Elsevier Academic, 2004. 
15. Z. Dziong and J. W. Roberts, “Congestion probabilities in a circuit-switched 
integrated services network,” Performance Evaluation, vol.7, no. 4, pp. 267–284, 
Nov. 1987. 
31. D. Mitra and J. B. Seery, “Comparative Evaluations of Randomized and Dynamic 
Routing Strategies for Circuit-switched Networks,” IEEE Transactions on 
Communications, vol. 39, issue 1, pp.102 - 116, January 1991. 
32. A. Mokhtar and M. Azizoglu, “Adaptive Wavelength Routing in All-optical 
Networks,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 6, issue 2, pp. 197-206, 
April 1998. 
33. R. S. Ramamurthy and B. Mukherjee, “Fixed-alternate Routing and Wavelength 
Conversion in Wavelength-routed Optical Networks,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Networking, vol. 10, issue 3, pp. 351-367, June 2002. 
34. L. Ruan, H. Luo, and C. Liu, “A dynamic routing algorithm with load balancing 
heuristics for restorable connections in WDM networks,”IEEE J. Sel. Areas 
Commun., vol. 22, no. 9, pp. 1823–1829, Nov. 2004. 
35. C. Siva Ram Murthy and M. Gurusamy, WDM Optical Networks: Concepts, Design, 
and Algorithms, Prentice-Hall, 2002. 
36. N. Spring, R. Mahajan, D. Wetherall, and T. Anderson, “Measuring ISP topologies 
with rocketfuel,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 12, no.1, pp. 12–16, Feb. 2004. 
37. A. Sridharan and K. N. Sivarajan, “Blocking in All-optical Networks,” IEEE/ACM 
Transactions on Networking, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 384-397, April 2004. 
38. S. Subramaniam, M. Azizoglu, and A. K. Somani, “All-optical Networks with Sparse 
Wavelength Conversion,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 4, issue 4, 
pp. 544-557, August 1996. 
39. Y. Suzuki and H. Toba, “Recent Research and Development of All-optical 
Wavelength Conversion Devices,” NTT Technical Review, vol. 1, issue 1, pp. 26-31, 
April 2003. 
40. T. Tripathi and K. N. Sivarajan, “Computing Approximate Blocking Probabilities in 
Wavelength Routed All-optical Networks with Limitedrange Wavelength 
Conversion,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 18, no. 10, 
pp. 2123-2129, October 2000. 
41. R. Vargerg, Convex Functions, Academic Press, 1973. 
42. D. Xu, Y. Chen, and C. Qiao, “A new heuristic for finding the shortest path with a 
disjoint counterpart,” in Proc. Optical Fiber Communication Conf., Feb. 2004, vol. 2, 
pp. 23–27. 
43. Y. Yoo, S. Ahn, and C. S. Kim, “Adaptive routing considering the number of 
available wavelengths in WDM networks,” IEEE J. Sel.Areas Commun., vol. 21, no. 
8, pp. 1263–1273, Oct. 2003. 
44. E. W. Zegura, GT-ITM: Georgia Tech Internetwork Topology Models(Software) 
1996  [Online]. Available:  
http://www.cc.gatech.edu/fac/Ellen.Zegura/gt-itm/gt-itm.tar.gz 
45. D. Zhemin and M. Hamdi, “A simple routing and wavelength assignment algorithm 
