1 
 
Construction of Customized Brain Template from Magnetic 
Resonance Images 
 
Abstract—Recognized as an essential tool for evidence-
based medicine, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has 
been widely used for evaluation of clinical trials as well as 
structural and functional brain studies.  One unique 
characteristic of MR studies is its statistical power in 
inferring structural discrepancy between subject groups in 
a voxel-wise manner, as compared to the qualitative 
evaluation based on visual inspection.  Toward this goal, a 
standard stereotactic coordinate system defined by a brain 
template is indispensable to providing a common space for 
brain morphometrics and statistics.  In this work we have 
constructed brain templates for inter-/intra-subject 
comparison and diagnostics of abnormal anatomical 
variations as well as the coordinate mapping method from 
the constructed template to the Talairach coordinate 
system.  The structural templates were constructed from 
more than 200 T1/GM/WM/CSF MR images of normal 
subjects and was evaluated according to the average of 
structural deformation. 
Keywords-brain template; structural analysis; 
morphometry; magnetic resonance imaging 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a medical imaging 
technique which can visualize the inside structure of organisms 
without physical intrusion. MRI is commonly used for 
studying variation in human brain structures and brain tissues. 
The structure of human brain is naturally different for each 
individual subjects. Different variables also affect the 
individual structure variability, such as age, gender, disease and 
ethnicity. To study the structure differences between each 
individual subjects from MRI, defining a standard information 
of human brain template space should be provided. 
Researchers could normalize each subject images to this space 
for further analysis or comparison. 
Due to the subjects may obtain from inconsistent sources 
or scan by different MRI machine environment. Different 
subject groups should align to the same template space which 
is represented for that subject groups. A proper represented 
template space could reduce distortion from the normalize 
procedure. Large distortion may bias the analysis result. 
Constructing a reliable brain template space from any given 
subject group becomes an important issue. To solve this 
problem, defining a creating procedure of specific customized 
template should be a primary task. 
This study aims to two main objectives: 1) construct a 
customized brain template represents the subject group: based 
on different subject groups, such as different gender groups or 
different level of age groups, creates the specific brain template 
space. 2) A reliable registration process: To construct a 
customized subject based brain template, the procedure should 
be created from the subject group we want to analyze without 
transforming into a general template initially. The procedure 
includes reliable tools and criteria. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
In 1988, Talairach atlas [1] is manually labeled based on a 
60-year-old French female’s brain, transformed from the 
Brodmann map. Because of the atlas is biased to an individual 
elder woman, it could not represent all the subjects as the brain 
template space. On the other hand, the Talairach atlas assumes 
that the brain structure is symmetric, which seems to be 
irrational. In 1992, Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) 
create an average of 305 subjects mapping to the Talairach 
atlas shows in Figure 1. This template created by linear 
mapping to Talairach atlas in 9 parameters and averaged 305 
transformed images [2][3].  The template called average305 is 
obvious in low contrast. The local structure could not been 
verified clearly. To reduce the blurred condition, a model 
constructed by an individual subject - Colin Holmes, who was 
scanned 27 times over a period of 3 months in 1998 [4]. The 
average image of these 27 images normalized to average305 
template shown in figure 1(b). Even colin27 provided in high 
contrast of template image, the result is biased to this 
individual source object structure.  
In 2001, The ICBM (International Consortium for Brain 
Mapping) template is accepted as a standard which is created 
by Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) in 152 T1 normal 
subject’s images [5]. Due to the studying subjects may be 
obtained from different MRI scanning machines, scanned in 
different scanning parameters. The ICBM template collected 
the data from three different sites. Each individual was linearly 
registered to the average305 and the average template image is 
called ICBM152. The advantage of this model is that it exhibits 
better contrast than average305 and also do not bias to specific 
individual subject. Followed by the improved of technique in 
MRI scanning and registration method, ICBM still working on 
creating brain template. The registration method with nonlinear 
technique has started to apply since 2002 and the building 
procedure has included six iteration times of registration.  
Recently, some papers have proved that human brain 
structure could be changed in different ages and distinct gender 
[6]. The ICBM template provides high resolution T1 images 
from age 19 to 90 in half males and females, but the large 
range of age group not convince for the specific age group or 
gender group. Creating specific-subject template become more 
important for precise analysis. 
Many creating customized template algorithms have been 
discussed in recent years. The first problem is constrained by 
the selecting of initial image template. Choosing ICBM 
template [7] or representative image [8] was considered by 
different authors. In the progress of registration, use iterative 
registration could reduce the bias between each subject images 
[9]. Affine registration was used by most authors, but the 
requirement of nonlinear registration could be realized from 
the experience of ICBM. 
3 
 
reference image maps to each subject images in affine 
registration, which solves the problem of global shape 
difference. The registration procedure will obtain n transform 
matrices Mji where j from 1 to n which including the 
difference information between reference image and each n 
subjects. As we want to optimize the reference image as a 
representative image of subject group, this purpose could 
implement by applying the average transform matrix M on the 
reference image to update the reference image RA 
(representative image). This concept is shown in Figure 5 in 
iterative steps and also could be used in nonlinear registration. 
 
 
Figure 4: The brief procedure of creating customized brain template. 
   
The updating representative image from the affine 
iterative registration could be the initial as the non-rigid 
registration. The non-rigid registration deformation field, Di 
handles the inter-brain alignment. The nonlinear iterative 
registration procedure is similar to affine registration. The final 
representative image RD will be obtained after apply two 
iterative registration procedure shown in Figure 4. 
Finally, all the group images register to the reference 
images following affine and non-rigid registration. The 
template will be done by the averaging register images. 
Although the template will bias to the chosen one, 
iterative registration to construct the template should reduce 
the influence of the initial reference image. Fig. 2 shows the 
concept of iterative registration. Equation (4) and (5) present 
the affine and non-rigid registration in iterations. Ri represents 
the i time created representative reference image. Since the 
information from the individual image is better than averaging 
image, the method should optimize the reference image rather 
than the averaging image. The iterative time could be defined 
under a threshold. 
nMM
n
j
i
j
i /)(
1


              (4) 
i
A
ii
A RMR 1                 (5) 
nMM
n
j
i
j
i /)(
1


                   (6) 

 

1)(
1)(1
iifRDR
iifRDRR
i
D
ii
D
A
i
Ai
D
   (7) 
 
Figure 5: This figure shows the concept of iterative registration. T 
represents affine matrix if the procedure using affine registration. 
Otherwise, T represents deformation field when the registration is 
nonlinear registration. (a) Initial registration. In affine registration, R0 
represents randomly select image from subject group. In nonlinear 
registration, R0 represent the representative image obtain from affine 
iterative registration. (b) Update the representative image to Ri after i 
iterations. (c) The i-th time representative image Ri+1 is updated by 
Ti+1, average from T1i to Tni.  
 
4) Interpolation 
As the averaged deformation field D is obtained, we will 
apply D on the representative image and get the new 
representative image. The deformation filed is not a grid point 
to grid point mapping. In other words, each grid point of source 
image may not map to a grid point in the target image as in 
Figure 6 step 1. Because of demand in creating the new 
representative image, using method of interpolation is needed. 
The following paragraphs will introduce our interpolation 
method. 
  The interpolation steps are shown in Figure 6. To obtain 
the value of each grid point in target image, the concept of our 
interpolation method is used intensity and distance value of 
eight nearest neighbors. How to find eight neighbors in a fast 
way becomes an issue to study. 
  Consider a grid point X in target image and find a close 
location C deforms from a grid point C’ of source image. Let 
the grid point C’ as center, find a cube include more than eight 
grid point. The size of the cube depends on the number of grid 
points in this region. After found a set G of grid points, G’ 
record the coordinate location form the deformation field in 
target image.  
From set G’, select eight nearest neighbors and calculate 
the distance as weighted in equation (8). 
 
 
Figure 6: This figure shows the procedure of creating image by 
5 
 
 
Figure 9: Template image: Brain-only, grey matter, white matter and 
CSF (from left to right) in horizontal, coronal and sagittal view (up to 
down). 
 
Representative image is also the constructed template 
space. All subject images without outliers map to this template 
space and average to obtain the template image. Both images 
provide information for the subject groups. 
The representative image should converge to a stable 
statement which can represent the whole subject group images. 
As the image is stable, the intensity variable per voxel will not 
change a lot. We perform the average intensity difference from 
representative image between this time of iteration and last 
time of iteration in Figure 10. The curve will be steady as 
increasing the iteration time, unless disturbed by outlier 
removing.  
 
 
Figure 10: Average intensity difference per voxel time after time of 
iteration for representative image (a) Affine iterative registration. (b) 
Nonlinear iterative registration.  
 
 
2) Outliers from subject group 
In sixth iteration time of affine registration, our study 
found four outliers of subject image and one in seventh 
iterations. Two outlier images are shown in Figure 11. All 
outlier remove cause of a transform coefficient from affine 
matrix is out of the range for three times of standard deviation, 
which criteria stated in III.(5) .  
   
Figure 11: (Left) Removed by outlier factor of shear in x-axis by y 
variable. (Right) Removed by outlier factor of scale in y-axis. 
 
3) Evaluate the template performance 
  By the intensity based of image, Table 1 and Figure 12 
show the result of average correlation between template image 
and warped image of subjects. The template image was chosen 
by the representative image, average template image and 
ICBM template image. The result shows that template image 
have the highest correlation with the subjects. 
 
Figure 12: First column: Reference representative image. Second 
column: Reference average template image. Third column: Reference 
ICBM template. 
 
Figure 13 shoes the intensity standard deviation per voxel 
for the warped image of subjects. Our study compares the 
result of warping to ICBM template space and our constructed 
template space. The boundary of the brain image had more 
variation than the center of brain area. This result also shows 
that our template is better as being a transformation template. 
 
Figure 13: The constructed template (left) compared with ICBM 
template (right) in intensity standard deviation for each voxel. 
 
Considering deformation filed in nonlinear registration, 
Table 2 shows the average deformed magnitude and the 
standard deviation in millimeter. It also compares ICBM 
template and our template space. The subjects have lower 
average deformed magnitude to our template than ICBM 
template. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: The average in deformation vector field (mean ± SD) in X, Y 
and Z dimension compare with different template. 
V. DISCUSSIONS 
The construction procedure includes two major parts of 
iterative registration: affine registration and nonlinear 
registration. Both iterations transform all subject images to a 
representative image and optimized this representative image 
rather than an average template image. The representative 
image provides higher contrast and local area information. This 
could let the transform value more accurate and also update the 
representative image precisely. But when researchers attempt 
to use the template space as a comparative standard coordinate, 
a representative image may not be the best choice rather than 
an average template image. An average template image 
includes more subject information than a representative image 
without bias to a specific brain image structure. In our result of 
Table 1, the subjects mapping to the representative image have 
higher average correlation. In our study, we have created both 
Mean average in deformation vector field (mean ± SD)(mm)
Subject in group Subject out of group
Our Constructed
template 
X: 0.06 ± 1.71 
Y: -0.24 ± 1.73 
Z: 0.48 ± 2.28 
X: 0.60 ± 9.26
  Y: -1.20 ± 10.96 
Z: 2.90 ± 8.70
ICBM X: 37.42 ± 2.33 
Y: 14.28 ± 5.53 
Z: 21.09 ± 8.70 
X: 24.04 ± 9.44
Y: 8.08 ± 5.63 
Z: 15.21 ± 7.66
(a) (b) 
Our template ICBM template 
Table 1
7 
 
[4] C.J. Holmes, R. Hoge, L. Collins, R. Woods, A.W. Toga, and A.C. Evans 
(1998). Enhancement of MR images using registration for signal averaging. 
Journal of computer assisted tomography, 22(2):324–333. 
[5] John Mazziotta, Arthur Toga, and et al (2001). A probabilistic atlas and 
reference system for the human brain: International consortium for brain 
mapping (ICBM). Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: 
Biological Sciences, 356(1412):1293–1322. 
[6] Good, C.D., Johnsrude, I., Ashburner, J., Henson, R.N., Friston, K.J., 
Frackowiak, R.S., (2001). Cerebral asymmetry and the effects of sex and 
handedness on brain structure: a voxel-based morphometric analysis of 465 
normal adult human brains. NeuroImage 14: 685-700. 
[7] K. Kazemi, H.A. Moghaddam, R. Grebe, C. Gondry-Jouet, F. Wallois. 
(2007) A neonatal atlas template for spatial normalization of whole-brain 
magnetic resonance images of newborns: Preliminary results. NeuroImage 
37(2): 463-473. 
[8] V. Fonova, A.C. Evansa, K. Botteronb, C.R. Almlic, R.C. McKinstrye, D.L. 
Collinsa, Brain Development Cooperative Group (2011). Unbiased average 
age-appropriate atlases for pediatric studies. NeuroImage 54(1): 313-327. 
[9] B.B. Avants, P. Yushkevich, J. Pluta, D. Minkof, M. Korczykowski, 
J.Detre, J. C. Gee. (2010) The optimal template effect in hippocampus studies 
of diseased populations. NeuroImage 49: 2457-2466. 
[10] F. Se´gonne, A.M. Dale, E. Busa, M. Glessner,D. Salat,H.K. Hahn and B. 
Fischl (2004). A hybrid approach to the skull stripping problem in MRI. 
NeuroImage 22(3):1060-1075. 
[11] J. G. Sled, A. P. Zijdenbos, and A. C. Evans (1998). A nonparametric 
method for automatic correction of intensitynonuniformity in MRIi data. 
Medical Imaging, IEEE Transactions on, 17(1):87–97. 
[12] Y. Zhang, M. Brady, and S. Smith (2001). Segmentation of brain MR 
images through a hidden Markov random field model and the expectation 
maximization algorithm. IEEE Trans. on Medical Imaging, 20(1):45-57. 
[13] M. Jenkinson and S.M. Smith (2001). A global optimisation method for 
robust affine registration of brain images. Medical Image Analysis, 5(2):143-
156. 
[14] Liu, J.X. Chen, Y.S., Chen, L.F. (2009). Fast and Accurate Registration 
Techniques for Affine and Nonrigid Alignment of MR Brain Images. Annals 
of Biomedical Engineering 38(1):138-157. 
 
 
 
 2
 
圖：壁報論文發表 
二、與會心得 
第一天的議程主要是訓練課程，包括進階功能性磁振造影、腦結構學、神經連結學、計算神
經科學、基因造影等主題，大會安排了多位資深的研究人員主講 aging、psychiatry、parkinson 等
疾病診療，內容豐富而精彩。第二天的  keynote speech 是由  Carnegie Mellon University 的 
Carnegie Mellon University 教授擔綱，講題是 “A Common Distributed Neural Circuit, Optimized 
Over Development, Mediates Both Face and Word Recognition”。每天上午都有各式主題的 Morning 
Workshop，以及一系列的論文發表會議，主題涵蓋科學性議題、腦造影技術開發、神經連結技術
發展、與臨床疾病探討等等，內容多元、研究深度強，收穫良多。 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/05/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 腦部結構磁振造影影像量化分析與模板建立
計畫主持人: 陳永昇
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-009-088- 學門領域: 醫學資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
