目錄 
 
壹、 中英文摘要及關鍵字 
 
貳、 研究報告內容(精簡版) 
甲、 前言與文獻探討 
乙、 研究目的 
丙、 研究方法 
丁、 結果與討論 
 
參、 計畫成果自評 
 
肆、 建議及未來目標 
 
伍、 參考文獻 
 
 
 
 
貳、研究報告內容 
甲、 前言與文獻探討 
In both academic and engineering societies, the mechanics of pure solid or liquid has 
long been a research topic for more than two centuries. It is generally accepted that we have 
gained comprehensive understanding of the material behavior with the existing theories and 
models. However, when the two phases coexist and move together, the interactions between 
the solid and the liquid constituents introduce the mixture new mechanisms for momentum 
transport and energy dissipation[1,2]. Thus, interesting phenomena and rich mixture behavior 
have been reported in various environmental and geophysical flow problems, as well as in 
industrial applications and bio-medical engineering.  
 Targeting the flow regime of comparable inertia, it is assumed that frequent 
particle interactions take place in the flowing mixture, implying that the extensive 
knowledge on the rapid granular flow should shed lights on the current two-phase system. 
The collision-rich nature of rapid granular flows has inspired many researchers to model 
the bulk rheology with kinetic theory, via parallel concepts to dense gas dynamics [3-9]. 
However, unlike gas molecules interaction, solid particles may collide inelastically due to 
surface friction, plastic deformation, and energy dissipation into propagating waves [10-15]. 
The interstitial incompressible and viscous liquid may further couple the particle 
interaction, resulting in flow inhomogeneity that complicates any theoretical approach. The 
progress is limited by the lack of a feasible model on the two phase interactions [16-21].  
Experimental investigation on this topic is also scanty due to difficult instrumentation. The 
existing work focus mainly on the stead-steady and slowly-evoloving bulk rheology 
[26-29]. Furthermore, even equipped with nowadays computer power, simulations of an 
unsteady solid-liquid flow remains a challenging and expensive task due to the complex 
geometry, frequent surface contacts, and unclear flow time and length scales [15-18]. Thus, 
even driven by identical external force or initiated with equal potential energy, the 
macroscopic behavior of a solid-liquid mixture deviates greatly from that of a pure solid or 
liquid mass. Both the constituent components and the boundary conditions have crucial 
influences on the flow phenomenon, in an incomprehensible sense that requires further 
investigations [22-25].  
 
乙、 研究目的 
As a starting point to understand the unsteady flow behavior of a two-phase flow, 
this work focuses on focus on mixtures of high solid volume fraction with frequent particle 
collisions. We speculate that the particle assembly reacts to external loading in a manner 
after the wet mixture was poured into the reservoir. With the coexisting water, only 5600 
spheres were used in the wet mixture. Thus, the center of mass of the wet mixture was 
slightly lower than that of the dry bulk. The difference, however, never exceeded 3.5 cm 
which is about 2 sphere diameters. As compared to the averaged bulk depth, that is roughly 
15 sphere diameters, this variation is assumed to be negligible.   
Thus, this work assumes that the dry and the wet mixtures possess nearly identical 
gravitational potential energy before an avalanche was initiated. Note that a waiting time was 
allowed before each experiment for the mixture to reach its static state. To guarantee the 
mobility of the granular bulk, the flume was tilt at an angle slightly greater than the internal 
friction angle of the dry spheres, which value was estimated to be roughly 17 degrees. Thus, a 
constant flume inclination angle, 19 degrees from the horizontal, was employed for all the 
experiments presented in this work. 
 
Data Analysis  
To monitor the bulk behavior, one digital camera was aligned perpendicularly to the 
lateral wall of the reservoir to film the avalanche process. The transition from a stationary 
mixture to a flowing bulk was recorded at a rate of 200 frames per second (fps). Another 
digital camera was employed to record how the bulk accelerates down the flume at a higher 
rate of 840 fps. The obtained images were analyzed to obtain the detailed flow dynamics. The 
investigated dynamics include (1) the volume discharge rate of the mixture out of the 
reservoir, (2) the individual particle motion during the granular avalanche and (3) the 
individual particle motion along the bulk downstream motion. 
To describe the discharge process during a granular avalanche, the total volume of the 
mixture that remains in the reservoir was monitored. It was assumed that the bulk flow is 
nearly two-dimensional due to the constant narrow flume width that is less than ten sphere 
diameters. Thus, the projected area of the mixture at the reservoir side wall was measured to 
approximate the actual volume. To estimate the projected area, the true color experimental 
image was first converted into binary format, as shown in figure 2(a) to 2(b). The total 
number of white pixels in the binary image was counted to present the partial volume 
occupied by the granular mass.  
In addition to the bulk behavior, the high-speed image acquisition system enabled us to 
investigate how individual particles with different initial locations respond to the bulk 
avalanche. The center of mass of each sphere was estimated in consecutive time frames using 
an image processing routine developed in the lab with a position error less than 5% of a 
sphere radius. Figure 3 illustrates a typical result where tracer particles were laid into a front 
and a rear vertical line, denoted by 'F' and 'R' respectively. It was found that the front and top 
particles fall down to the bottom shortly after the gate was opened.  
these results were extrapolated from the particle motion observed at the lateral side wall of 
the facility. It is, however, believed that this two-dimensional flow information shall 
characterize the actual three-dimensional bulk behavior due to the narrow flow confinement.  
 
 
Numerical Simulation 
Since the images obtained for the initial avalanche and the downhill motion are 
intrinsically different, two separate processing routines have been developed in our lab. Since 
opaque particles were used in the study, the current experimental method only allows us to 
study bulk behavior at the flume sidewalls. Thus, in addition to the proposed experimental 
investigation, a numerical simulation method has been developed, in close collaboration with 
the CAE group (Computer Aided Engineering) in Civil Engineering, NTU which provide us a 
means to study the flow dynamics ‘within’ the bulk. Considering the solid-dominant flow 
dynamics, we chose a scheme based on standard discrete-element simulation (DEM) but 
implemented a liquid-modified soft-sphere contact model. This research line, though falling 
outside of the original research proposal, is closely related to the proposed experimental work 
since every simulation parameter is chosen either in accordance with the experimental setup 
or with the help from the actual measurement.  
 
丁、 結果與討論 
Comparison between the experiment and the DEM simulation 
 
The same procedure was applied to both the dry and the wet granular avalanches, which 
data were normalized by the initial projected area and presented by the circle and the 
triangles in figure 5. As compared to the dry granular avalanche, the wet bulk exhibited a 
faster discharge. Both measurements agree with the DEM simulation results to a satisfactory 
degree. 
Figure 4 Position-time plot for the downstream 
motion of racer particles in a dry bulk. The time 
reference was set when the first particle has 
moved 20cm from the reservoir gate.  
陸、 計畫成果自評，建議及未來目標 
The original objective of this project is to investigate how the bulk behavior was 
affected by the particle size-segregation. It turns out to be a too ambitious goal when 
everything has to be started from scratch. It took us more than four months to finalize the 
facility, to setup the lighting system, and the digital cameras. After that, we struggled with the 
image processing procedures since the liquid reflected light and sometimes blurred the 
images. Nonetheless, at the end of the project, we are happy with what we achieved, 
especially the general agreement with the numerical simulation. We also came to a stage that 
we are confident of systematic experiments and post-analysis. So we believe that interesting 
and useful results should come in the very near future.  
Several sets of experiments were indeed conducted using binary solid mixture, a few 
snapshots shown below. It was, however, realized afterwards that the flume inclination angle 
was smaller than the internal friction angle. Thus we will need to redo all the experiments to 
be able to draw conclusions without influences of stationary layer. This certainly will be our 
research topic in the coming years.   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
柒、 參考文獻 
1. Bagnold, R. A. (1941) The physics of blown sand and desert dunes, Methuen & Co., London. 
2. Drew, D.A. and Lahey, R.T. Jr. (1979) Applications of general constitutive principles to the derivation of 
multidimensional two-phase flow, Int. J. Multiphase Flow, 5, pp.243-264 
3. Alam, M., Willitis, J.T., Amarson, B.O. and Luding, S. (2002) Kinetic theory of a binary mixture of 
nearly elastic disks with size and mass disparity, Phys. of Fluids, 14 (11), pp 
