2中文摘要
本計畫是一年期的計畫，建構一個智慧型系統來解讀由實驗產生的蛋白質體資料。隨著實
驗儀器及技術的進展，研究者可以針對細胞或 tissue 進行 proteome scale 的研究，包括
在不同細胞狀態下蛋白質表現的定量，以利後續 biomarker discovery 或相關生醫研究。
完成利用質普儀的蛋白質實驗後的資料分析，包括蛋白質的辨識、定量，然而此二者並不
是蛋白質體學研究的最終目標；更重要的是解讀這些蛋白質體資料，例如：辨識出那些在
病人細胞中有不同表現的蛋白質後，研究者更希望瞭解這些蛋白質有哪些功能、牽涉在哪
些的反應路徑(pathways)中，並從這些反應路徑中排序找出較能描述這群蛋白質互動關係
的反應路徑；以為後續設計新藥或其他生物醫學探討的基礎。
我們原來的計畫，只針對找出蛋白質參與的反應路徑(pathways)；在這一年計畫執行過程
中，我們做些調整，我們建構的系統具有 comparative proteomics 的功能，也就是能接受
多組蛋白質實驗的結果進行比較，針對使用者挑選有興趣的蛋白質進行資料庫分析，找出
其功能或參與之反應路徑等，並針對這些蛋白質提供統計分析，提供統計分析圖表與視覺
化的模組。由於此計畫耗時，在這一年中我們已經完成部分系統，於 2008 年 12 月台日蛋
白質體會議中張貼海報；我們將持續發展該系統；完成後將上網提供研究者使用。
關鍵字：蛋白質資料、反應路徑、解讀蛋白質資料、系統發展、比較蛋白質體學、
高輸出的蛋白質體學。
4Introduction
The advent of liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) technologies has expedited the
development in proteomics research. High-throughput LC-MS experiments have led to
large-scale protein identification [1-2]. Researchers are immersed in overwhelming data and
attempt to discover the interaction between identified proteins for understanding the cause of
diseases or the movement of our organ cells. With abundant data available, the paradigm of
proteomics study has shifted from concerning the properties of single protein to comprehending
the interaction between a set of proteins [3-7]. Furthermore, incorporating with various stable
isotope labeling techniques, e.g., isotope-coded affinity tag (ICAT) [8], enzymatic labeling using
18O/16O [9, 10], stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) [11], and isobaric
tagging for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) [12,13], and label-free approach [14-16],
large-scale proteomics has turned quantitative.
However, identifying and quantifying proteins expressed in different cell sates are not the
ultimate goals of proteomics research. Quantitative analysis of protein expression provides
fundamental understanding of biological changes or biomarker discovery in clinical applications.
In this project, we aim to provide a tool that can help users to (1) determine biomarker candidates
from quantitative proteomic analysis and (2) acquire proteomic information of the targeted
proteins, including protein functions found from Gene Ontology [17] and UniProt [18] protein
description, and pathways involved from KEGG [19].
Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics plays a key role in biomarker discovery that replies
on protein identification and quantitation. To discover novel biomarkers, a researcher usually
conducts a sequence of LC-MS experiments to quantify proteins in normal cells and tumor cells
of each patient sample. The researcher may be interested in finding 50 most differentially
expressed proteins across all patient samples. Multi-source (e.g., from different experiments,
different states of cancer samples, and different identification or quantitation tools) analysis and
comparison on proteomic identification results has been well tackled by some existing tools.
However, they have not been developed to tackle multi-source quantitative results. Conventional
analyses and comparisons on quantitative results were conducted manually through
time-consuming and complicated routines, and thereby motivating us to include comparison on
quantitative results.
To acquire useful protein information and discover protein relations from heterogeneous
proteomic data, however, it can take researchers a large amount of labor hours if there is no
integrated and intelligent system to tackle the complexity of experimental evidence. For example,
one of our collaborators takes 1-2 weeks to acquire useful and relevant information of about 600
proteins identified from their experiment. Therefore, our system is designed to automatically
retrieve proteomic information, including GO annotation and KEGG pathway information.
Notably, our system can mine protein information provided by UniProt since an MD collaborator
6Figure 1. An example of protein GO annotation and mapping into KEGG pathway categories.
Figure 2. An example of search function.
Summary and Future Work
In this year, we developed a proteomic data analysis system, aiming at providing a platform for
multi-source protein quantitation results to facilitate biomarker discovery. This system provides a
unique capability, in comparison with currently available tools, that allows operations on protein
lists combined with comparison with protein quantitation results. Major function of this system
has been completed, and we will further enhance the system and make it publicly accessible
through the Internet. In the future, we will try to include PANTHER and BioCarta information
and other protein information from literature mining into the system.
References
1. Englbrecht, C. C. and Facius, A. (2005) Bioinformatics challenges in proteomics. Comb.
Chem. High Throughput Screen 8, 705-15.
2. Lisacek, F., Cohen-Boulakia, S., Appel, R. D. (2006) Proteome informatics II:
Bioinformatics for comparative proteomics. Proteomics 6, 6380.
3. Aebersold, R. and Mann, M. (2003) Mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Nature 422,
198-207.
4. Domon, B. and Aebersold, R. (2006) Mass spectrometry and protein analysis. Science 312,
212-7.
5. Gygi, S. P. and Aebersold, R. (2000) Using mass spectrometry for quantitativeproteomics.” 
GO KEGG pathways
