 2 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
The demand on railway transportation in the near future is expected to be significantly 
increased worldwide [1, 2]; therefore, the network capacity must be increased to meet the trend.  
For example, the government in Taiwan has recently decided to upgrade its conventional railway 
system operated by Taiwan Railways Administration (TRA).  The goal is to provide highly 
frequent commuter services (e.g. one train in every 10 minutes) in urban areas along the west 
corridor of Taiwan; the improvement projects include grade separation, additional commuter 
stations, and new rolling stock, etc.  These types of projects usually require a great amount of 
capital investment hence railway agencies are looking for better tools to allocate their resources 
on capacity planning in the best possible way.  
Since decades ago computer simulation tools have been developed to help the long-term 
capacity planning process [3-5]; however, the complete process so far still requires human 
intervention and expert judgments because of the complexity of the problems.  Experienced 
railroaders often identify good solutions, but this does not guarantee that all good alternatives 
have been evaluated or that the best one has been found.  Furthermore, the aging demographics 
of the railroad industry means that many experienced capacity analysts will soon retire.  
Simulation can model a section of the network in great detail but it is not suitable for network 
capacity planning [6].  Instead of solving the real problem, solutions based on corridor-based 
simulation analyses may move bottlenecks to other places in the network. 
A good capacity planning process should have the ability to generate and evaluate possible 
expansion alternatives with an appropriate capacity model, and suggest an optimal network 
capacity expansion plan.  We proposed a capacity planning framework for the conventional 
railway in Taiwan with predominantly passenger traffic.  The proposed framework includes two 
core components: (1) an “Alternatives Generator” (AG) generates capacity expansion options; 
and (2) an “Investment Selection Model” (ISM) identifies the best capacity expansion plan based 
on options obtained from AG.  Using this capacity planning framework can help railway 
agencies to determine the optimal investment plan. 
2. THE CAPACITY PLANNING PROCESS 
Fig. 1 shows the flowchart of the proposed capacity planning process.  The proposed 
framework includes two important components: AG and ISM.  Based on the section properties, 
the AG enumerates possible expansion engineering options for each section with the associated 
costs and capacity increases.  The ISM then determines which portions of the network need to 
be upgraded with what kind of capacity improvement alternatives according to the budget, and 
future demand.  
Link  
properties
Alternatives 
Generator (AG) 
Investment Selection
 Model  (ISM)
Traffic demand  
(trains/hr)
Budget
Optimal 
investment plan
(expansion 
policy)
Alternatives table
(options, capacities, 
costs)
 
Figure 1. Flowchart of the Proposed Capacity Planning Process 
A similar capacity planning framework was developed by Lai and Barkan [7] to assist North 
American Freight Railroads on their capacity planning projects.  Although this framework is 
similar to our proposed process, the key modules in the frameworks are completely different.  
 4 
Exclusive track
Sharing track
Platform
Platform Platform
Platform
Platform
Platform
Platform
Type I Type II
Type III Type IV
 
Figure 3. Types of Station Layout in TRA Capacity Manual 
3.2. Reduction in Block Length 
The shorter the block length, the shorter the spacing between trains and the higher the 
capacity.  Based on the properties of a section, the block length can be reduced to certain 
predefined levels until it reaches the safe braking distance.  It was found that the most important 
blocks to affect section capacity are the “effective blocks” which are the two blocks after a 
departure station – departure blocks (Bn and Bn-1) and two blocks before an arrival station – 
arrival blocks (B1 and B2) (Fig. 4).  All the other intermediate blocks have little impact on 
section capacity and are rarely the bottleneck of the system.  Therefore, the effective blocks are 
the focus of the enumeration process. 
 
B1 B2 Bn-1 Bn
Station A
Bn-1Bn B1B2
Station B
 
Figure 4. Example of Effective Blocks 
A link between two stations usually has more than or equal to four blocks (i.e. B1, B2, Bn and 
Bn-1).  However, there are links with very short distance where a departure block for a station 
may also be an arrival block for the next station; in these cases, the effective blocks are all blocks 
between adjacent stations. 
3.3. Construction Cost Estimation 
The unit construction cost of each type of expansion option is needed to compute the costs 
of expansion alternatives.  Users can specify these values in advance or use the default cost 
estimates.  The default values are based on recent information provided by railroads and 
engineering consulting companies (Table 1).  These values serve as the general average case 
considering the need for new tracks, signals, and bridges, but do not include the cost of land 
acquisition or environment permitting.  
Estimating the cost of reduction in block length is relatively straightforward since it 
normally involves additional block signals and changes in track circuit.  On the other hand, 
changing station layout is more complicated than reducing block lengths.  To compute the 
construction cost of changes in station layout, the AG first lists all possible changes, then using 
analytical methods to estimate the cost of each component in changes of station layout 
respectively, finally summation the costs of all components to obtain the construction cost. 
 
 6 
identifies sections requiring upgrades and specifies alternatives selected by the ISM.  Trains 
with different origins and destinations can be considered in a manner similar to multiple 
commodities sharing a common line; therefore, we formulated this problem as a mixed–integer, 
network design model [11-13].  
The following notation is used in ISM: o and p are the indexes referring to node as stations 
and N is the set of all nodes.  A is the set of all existing sections (o, p); δ+(o) represents the 
station o serving as the departure station, and δ-(o) represents the station o serving as arriving 
station .  k corresponds to the origin-destination (OD) pairs of nodes (s1, e1), (s2, e2), …, (sk, ek) 
in which sk and ek denote the origin and destination of the kth OD pair; q represents the original 
condition (q=1) and the number (q-1) capacity expansion options; Q is the set of q; m is the type 
of station layout and M is their set; loq denotes the type of station layout in station o that 
associated with option q.  B is the available budget; dk is the demand of kth origin-destination 
pair; cop stands for the cost of a unit train passing section (o, p); hopq indicates the cost of each 
section (o, p) associated with reduction in block length (these changes can be represented by 
notation q) and wom indicates the cost of the change in layout of station o.  zpk is the number of 
trains with O-D pair k requiring to stop at station p.  Uopq represents the capacity of section (o, p) 
based on the infrastructure properties of a capacity expansion option q.  α and β are the weights 
related to the planning horizon.  
There are four sets of decision variables in the ISM.  The first variable is denoted by xopk 
which is the number of trains running on section (o, p) from the kth OD pair.  The second 
variable go is denoted for the type of station layout in station o. The third variable is a binary 
variable which determining the chosen engineering option q in section (o, p), denoted by yopq.  
The fourth variable is fom, a binary variable which determining the final type m of station layout 
in station o. 
The following is the optimization model of ISM:  
( , ) ( , )
Min    q q m m kop op o o op op
o p A q Q o N m M o p A k K
h y w f c xα β
∈ ∈ ∈ ∈ ∈ ∈
 
+ + 
 
∑ ∑ ∑ ∑ ∑ ∑
                     
(1) 
s.t. 
( , )
q q m m
op op o o
o p A q Q o N m M
h y w f B
∈ ∈ ∈ ∈
+ ≤∑ ∑ ∑ ∑
                             
(2)
 
                                     
=1 ( , )qop
q Q
y o p A
∈
∀ ∈∑
                               
(3)                                                   
( )q qo op o
p q Q
l y g o oδ +
∈
= ∀ ∈∑∑
                            
(4)                                 
( )q qo po o
p q Q
l y g o oδ −
∈
= ∀ ∈∑∑
                         
(5)                                
m
o o
m M
mf g o N
∈
= ∀ ∈∑
                              
(6)                                                
( )
,    
δ +∈
≥ ∀ ∈ ∈∑ k kop p
o o
x z p N k K
                             
(7)                                            
( , )k q qop op op
k K q Q
x U y o p A
∈ ∈
≤ ∀ ∈∑ ∑                          (8)                                         
( ) ( )
         
                 ,  
 0       
k
p k
k k k
po op p k
o o o o
d p s
x x d p e p k
otherwiseδ δ
− +∈ ∈
 ∈
− = − ∈ ∀


∑ ∑
                      
(9)                       
and ,  
k
op ox g ∈{Integer}, , {0,1}
q m
op oy f ∈                         (10)  
 8 
Table 3 Current Peak Hour Service Plan 
Demand
(trains/hr)
Demand
(trains/hr)
5 5
1 1
5 1
1 2
2 3
2 1
1
O-D pairs
Jhongli- Songshan
Wanhua- Songshan
Shulin- Songshan
Jhongli- TaipeiSongshan- Shulin
Banciao- Jhongli
Shanjia- Jhongli
O-D pairs
Songshan- Jhongli
Taipei- Jhongli
Songshan- Wanhua
Shanjia- Songshan
Jhongli- Shulin
Songshan- Shulin
 
Table 4 shows the capacity expansion options for scenario with 10% growth in demand as 
an example of the optimal investment plan.  An arrow in the Table 4 represents a change in the 
division of blocks or types of stations.  For example, “B1 & Bn→2”means dividing both B1 and 
Bn into two blocks; Wanhua, II→I represents changing the station type of Wanhua from II to I. 
Table 5 summarized the number of infrastructure changes and total cost for each of the three 
scenarios.  For all scenarios, changes in block length are important and effective in capacity 
planning even though they are sometimes overlooked by the railway practitioners in Taiwan.  
The more the increase in demand, the more the required capital for capacity expansion.  
However, the increase in cost is not proportional to the increase in demand.  This demonstrates 
the usefulness of this capacity planning process to identify the optimal investment plan for 
different scenarios. 
Table 4 Optimal Investment Plan for Scenario with 10% Growth in Demand 
Section Capcity Usage
(trains/hr)
Capacity
(trains/hr)
Changes in effective blocks Cost of changes in
block length
(mi. USD)
Changes in type of
station layout and cost
(mi. USD)
Songshan-Taipei 17 19 B2 & Bn→4 0.80
Taipei-Wanhua 19 19 B2 & Bn→2 0.40 Wanhua, II→I, 1.61
Wanhua-Banciao 17 18 B2→2, B1→2 0.40 Wanhua, II→I, 1.61
Banciao-Shulin 17 17 B1→2 0.30
Yingge-Taoyuan 13 13 B1→2 0.30
Taoyuan-Neili 13 13 B2→2 0.20 Neili, IV→I, 2.63
Neili- Jhongli 13 15 B1→2 0.20 Neili, IV→I, 2.63
Taipei-Songshan 14 16 B2 & Bn→2 0.40
Wanhua-Taipei 16 18 B1→2, B2 & Bn-1→2 0.60 Wanhua, II→I, 1.61
Banciao-Wanhua 16 17 B1→3, Bn-1→2 0.50 Wanhua, II→I, 1.61
Shanjia-Shulin 13 13 B2 & Bn→2 0.40
Yingge- Shinjia 13 13 B1→2 0.20
Neili-Taoyuan 11 13 Neili, IV→I, 2.63
Jhongli-Neili 11 12 Neili, IV→I, 2.63
Total cost (including all alternatives, mi. USD) 8.94  
Table 5 Comparisons in Number of Changes and Cost from Scenarios  
with Different Future Demand 
Demand
Increase
Number of Changes
in station layout
Number of Changes
in block length
Construction Cost
(mi. USD)
10% 2 21 8.94
30% 2 30 11.74
50% 3 31 14.63  
 1 
 
Summary Report on Attending the 3rd International Seminar on  
Railway Operations Modelling and Analysis RailZurich2009 
 
 
Attendee: Yung-Cheng (Rex) Lai 
Department of Civil Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
 
Location: Zurich, Switzerland 
Duration: Feb 4th ~ 15th, 2009 
 
 
 
 
