一、中文摘要 
本計畫提出一套數值解析的程序，探討
具自由液面的均勻黏性流通過二維空化水
翼所造成的流場，其中水翼距自由液面的距
離為有限值。流場以 Reynolds Averaged 
Navier-Stokes 方程來模擬，而空化現象則採
用「完全空化模型」（full cavitation model）。
我們採用有限體積法（finite-volume method）
來離散所有的微分方程式，並採用 SIMPLE
算則。紊流模型將考慮採用 k-ε模型。在流
場的計算中，空化空泡與自由液面波形將採
用迭代的方式進行演算，直到收斂為止。 
 
關鍵詞：自由液面，水翼，空化 
 
Abstract 
The purpose of this study is to de-
velop a numerical procedure in order to 
analyze the flow past a cavitating hydro-
foil near the free surface. The flow is 
computed iteratively. The Reynolds av-
eraged Navier-Stokes equations are em-
ployed for computations. They are dis-
cretized by the finite volume method and 
computed through the SIMPLE algorithm. 
The k-εmodel is adopted for the turbu-
lence effects. In addition, a full cavitation 
model is used for cavitation simulation.  
An iterative scheme is developed to 
compute the free surface flow and the 
cavitating phenomenon. 
Keywords: Free surface, 2-D hydrofoil, cavi-
tation 
 
二、前言 
有關空化水翼流場的數值解析，過去十
餘年來，發展相當快速。不論國內、或國外，
均有相當豐碩的成果。 
無窮水域（沒有自由液面）中的空化水
翼流場解析，在過去將近二十年的發展中，
已經逐漸成熟。對於此一問題，主要的解析
方法是邊界元素法（BEM），所解析的流場
是勢流場。Uhlman [1, 2] 採用速度勢邊界元
素法（velocity-based BEM）來解析此等問
題，算是邊界元素法解析的先驅；Lee 等人 
[3, 4] 與 Kinnas 等人 [5, 6] 則提出位勢邊
界元素法（potential-based BEM），基於計算
的優異性與簡易性，此一方法成為空化流場
分析的主要方法。在解析中，由於空泡形狀
也是解的一部分，所以通常採用非線性迭代
的解析方式，以期能同時解出流場與正確的
空泡形狀。國內的相關研究包括郭真祥教授
[7]、Chen 等人 [8, 9]，涵蓋二維與三維的計
算。 
然而，簡化的勢流方程雖透過邊界元素
法，可作相當有效率的數值解析，且在工程
應用上也有一定的準確性，但有幾個物理問
題是此等數值計算無法克服的，包括翼表面
上的空化起始點、片狀空化（sheet cavita-
tion）空泡尾端的物理現象。對於前者，吾
人通常得假設起始點的位置；對於後者，則
有賴模型的建構，有關模型的部分，文獻中
有數種模型可資選擇，相關的討論可見文獻 
[10]。大致上說來，相關研究 [10, 11] 顯
示，雖然有些模型比另其他模型更接近真正
的物理狀況，但在空化水翼的解析中，對全
空化水翼重要特性的解析而言，並沒有顯著
的影響。 
有關位勢邊界元素法在空化流場上的
應用，近幾年更趨多元，如在三維螺槳上的
分析 [12, 13]、在軸對稱體上的應用 [14] 
等都是。 
除了使用邊界元素法進行解析外，水翼
空化的研究也在近十年來朝黏性流解析邁
進，直接進行 Navier-Stokes 方程的數值計
算，以期能掌握更精準的分析成果。當然，
這當中有相當多的挑戰有待克服，因流場本
身具有相當高的動力特性；另外，密度場的
梯度亦相當大，容易導致數值計算的不穩
定。相關的數值解析研究仍在持續進步中。 
基本上，相關的黏性空化流場數值解析
研究可分為兩類，其一為介面追蹤法，其二
為均勻平衡模型。對於介面追蹤法，吾人假
設空泡內的壓力為一定常值，等於流體的蒸
氣壓，所有的計算只針對液相的部分。定常
)(
)u()(
)u()(
2,1
,
,
,
ερε
εσ
μερερ
ερ
σ
μρρ
εε mmk
k
mt
mmm
mmk
k
mt
mmm
CGC
k
t
G
kkk
t
−+
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ ∇⋅∇=⋅∇+∂
∂
−+
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ ∇⋅∇=⋅∇+∂
∂
 
其中紊流黏滯係數為 
ερμ μ
2
,
kCmmt =  
而紊流動能的生成 [ ] mTmmmtmkG u:)u(u,, ∇∇+∇= μ  
以上二式中的常數定義如單相流場的 k-ε
模型所定義的。 
有關空化現象的模擬，在數值計算上，
將採用 Sinhal 等人 [33] 所發展出來的「完
全空化模型」（full cavitation model），此模
型的優點是同時考慮 (a)蒸氣泡的形成與傳
輸、(b)壓力場與速度場的紊流擾動、以及(c)
不可凝縮（noncondensible）氣體的尺度等
三種第一階效應。為簡化計算起見，我們假
設：（一）液相是不可壓縮的，只有氣相是
壓縮的；（二）不考慮溫度變化效應。在此
等假設下，蒸氣質量分率（mass fraction）f
受到以下方程的控制 
( ) cemm RRffft −+∇∇=⋅∇+∂
∂ γρρ )u()( 2  
其中 γ表有效相交換係數， eR 與 cR 分別表
氣相與液相的變化率，可由 Rayleigh- Plesset
方程式推導出，當 vpp < 時， 
l
l ρρρσ 3
)(2)1( ppfVCR vvchee
−−=  
當 vpp > 時， 
l
l ρρρσ 3
)(2 v
v
ch
cc
ppfVCR −=  
在以上兩式中， vp 表蒸氣壓，足碼 l與 v 分
別表液相與氣相， chV 表特徵速度，σ是表
面張力，至於 eC 與 cC 則是經驗常數。 
紊流效應對空化流場有重要的影響，我
們按 Sinhal 等人 [33] 所建議的方式，提高
液氣相變換的壓力門檻 
)(
2
1
turbsatv ppp +=  
其中 
kp mturb ρ39.0=  
至於不可凝縮的氣體（如溶解於水中的
空氣），由於必定存在於一般的水流之中，
其效應不應忽略。我們用以下的方程來模擬
之 
lρααραραρ )1( gvggvvm −−++=  
至於自由液面的問題，我們將採用 VOF
的方式來處理，此方法適用於液氣二相流體
不能互相交換的問題之中，這在自由液面問
題的解析上，已經是較為成熟的方法 [34]。
若 kα （介於 0 與 1 之間）表相 k 的體積分
率（volume fraction），則我們以下的體積分
率方程式 
0u =∇⋅+∂
∂
k
k
t
αα  
且須滿足限制條件 
1
2
1
=∑
=k
kα  
在此體積分率分布之下，我們所追蹤之格點
密度為 
2211 ραραρ +=  
其餘有關動量方程式，則因與前述之方
程類似，在此不再贅述。 
至於邊件條件，在水翼表面上，必須滿
足無滑流條件；在自由液面上，流體運動必
須滿足運動與動力邊件條件；在上游無窮遠
處，入流為均勻流。 
2. 數值解析 
我們將採用有限體積法（finite-volume 
method）來離散所有的微分方程式，並採用
SIMPLE 算則。如前面所述，我們採用 k-ε
模型來處理紊流課題。 
由於解析空化流場所使用的方程組（採
用完全空化模型）與追蹤液體表面的方程組
（採用 VOF 模型）有些許的不同，我們將
採用迭代的方式來進行本計畫的運算。程序
如下： 
(1) 先假設液體表面的波形。 
(2) 計算水翼的全空化流場。 
(3) 根據所得的空化流場，修正液體表面的
波形。 
為 1.389=σ 。 
在計算上，我們的計算領域擷取如下：
上游邊界條件設在離水翼導緣 5 個弦長
處，下游邊界條件設在離水翼尾緣 10 個弦
長處，下側面邊界條件則設在離水翼 10 個
弦長處；採用 C 形與 H 形組合網格，計有
15,500 個格點。 
圖六與圖七為空泡形狀與自由液面在
各次迭代中的變化，我們可看出，經過四次
迭代之後，空泡形狀與自由液面皆已達收斂
的狀態。 
圖八則為經過四次迭代之後的空泡區
域體積分率圖。 
 
五、自評 
本計劃的執行，符合原先計劃的規劃，
原計劃中所提的研究項目與目標均已達
成，相關的成果將投稿 2008 年六月在台北
舉行的 Asia-Pacific Hydrodynamics Work-
shop 國際會議，並將投稿相關期刊。 
 
五、參考文獻 
1. Uhlman, J. S., “The surface singularity method 
applied to partially cavitating hydrofoils,” J. Ship 
Res., Vol. 31, pp. 107-124 (1987). 
2. Uhlman, J. S., “The surface singularity or bound-
ary integral method applied to supercavitating hy-
drofoils,” J. Ship Res., Vol. 33, pp. 16-20 (1989). 
3. Lee, J. T., “A Potential Based Panel Method for the 
Analysis of Marine Propeller in Steady Flow,” PhD 
thesis, Department of Ocean Engineering, MIT 
(1987). 
4. Lee, C.-S., Y.-G. Kim and J.-T. Lee, “A poten-
tial-based penal method for the analysis of a 
two-dimensional super- or partially-cavitating hy-
drofoil,” J. Ship Res., Vol. 36, pp. 168-181 (1992). 
5. Kinnas, S. A. and N. E. Fine, “A numerical 
nonlinear analysis of the flow around two- and 
three- dimensional partially cavitating hydrofoils,” 
J. Fluid Mech., Vol. 254, pp. 151-181 (1993). 
6. Kinnas, S. A. and N. E. Fine, “A boundary element 
method for the analysis of the flow around 3-d 
cavitating hydrofoils,” J. Ship Res., Vol. 37, pp. 
213-224 (1993). 
7. 郭真祥 & 田曉真, “空蝕水翼設計與性能解析,” 
第十一屆中國造船暨輪機工程研討會暨國科會
成果發表會, pp.29-34 (1998)。 
圖五  網格圖 
圖六  歷次迭代下的水翼空泡形狀 
圖七  歷次迭代下的自由液面形狀 
圖八  空泡區域的空氣體積分率 
cavitating hydrofoils near a free surface,” J. Fluid 
Mech., Vol. 71, pp. 339-359 (1975). 
32. Green, T. and R. L. Street, “Two supercavitating 
hydrofoils near a free surface,” J. Fluid Mech., Vol. 
27, pp.1-28 (1967). 
33. Singhal, A. K., M. M. Athavale, H. Li, and Y. Jiang, 
“Mathematical basis and validation of the full 
cavitation model,” J. Fluids Eng., Vol. 124, pp. 
617-624 (2002). 
34. Muzaferija S. and M. Peric, “Computation of free 
surface flows using interface-tracking and inter-
face-capturing methods,” In Nonlinear Water 
Wa6e Interaction, edited by O. Mahrenholtz and M. 
Markiewicz, Computational Mechanics Publica-
tions, Southampton, UK (1998). 
35. Yang, J. and F. Stern, “Large-eddy simulation of 
breaking waves using embedded-boundary/level- 
set method,” 45th Aerospace Science Meeting and 
Exhibit, Reno, NV, USA (2007). 
 
展望等，相當深入；會議論文報告則同時有 53-71 個場次在各個演講廳進行，議論文報告，
每篇報告之後的交流討論熱烈，沒有冷場。黃昏時刻，則分別有 von Neumann Lecture（7/16）、
Olga Taussky-Todd Lecture（7/17）、Euler Lecture、Prandtl Lecture（7/18）、Public Lecture （7/19），
探索相關數學應用議題與名人軼事，相當有趣。 
本人所發表的論文被大會排在第一天的第一個發表場次（七月十六日早上）報告，並擔
任此場次的主席，主持論文發表的進行。本場次的主題為 Numerical methods for PDEs: 
stationary problems，計有六篇論文報告，除本人的論文發表外，另有兩篇由日本學者、一篇
由瑞士學者、一篇由荷蘭學者、一篇由智利學者報告。由本場次的論文組成，就可窺見本次
研討會的國際性。本場次現場約有四十位各國學者與學生，場面熱絡；各篇報告結束之後，
皆有熱烈的討論，彼此切搓討論。 
 
二、與會心得 
ICIAM會議是連接數學學者與各個科學應用領域學者的重要橋樑，該會議並不以數學的
抽象推演為滿足，而是致力於數學在科學與工程領域中的應用，其中特別是數值方法。所以
參加此次會議的學者，雖數學學者佔有相當的數量，但亦有相當多的各領域學者參與，其中
交流所帶來的效益，實相當具體。 
大會安排有 Industry Day，其目的是針對重要的產業應用主題，讓產業界與學術界有具體
的交流，已達數學在產業應用的目的。相關主題包括計算電磁學（Computational 
Electromagnetics）、食品加工中的流場模擬（Simulating Flows in Food Processing）、運輸系
統的模擬（Modelling and Simulation of Transport Systems）、通訊基礎建設的最佳化
（Optimization of Telecommunication Infrastructure）、工業飛機設計的數值最佳化（Numerical 
Optimization for Industrial Aircraft Design）、Predicting the Blockbuster in Pharmaceutical 
Design、與 Risk Management in Financial and Energy Markets等，相當廣泛。 
另外，ICIAM也相當注意開發中國家的數學應用課題，也有不少學者願意投入心力來幫
助開發中國家，應用數學來提高相關的科學、工程應用研究，這次獲得蘇步青獎的 Gilbert 
Strang就是常到中國、越南與非洲開發中國家，協助發展數學應用以提高科學研究能力的MIT
教授。 
此次會議的安排相當緊密紮實，內容相當豐富，是我參加過的國際會議中，最具學術性
的會議，且相當注重數學在各行各業中的應用，令人收穫良多。另外，註冊費相對便宜（約
台幣一萬元），商業色彩因此相對淡薄。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
 
 
 
 
Applications of RBF Collocation Method to Elliptic PDEs in an Arbitrary Domain by Ficti-
tious Domain Extensions 
 
J.-H. Chen 
Department of Systems Engineering and Naval Architecture 
National Taiwan Ocean University 
Keelung, Taiwan 
 
ABSTRACT 
A fictitious domain extension approach is introduced to study elliptic PDE’s defined in arbitrary domains by the radial 
basis function collocation method. In this approach, arbitrary physical geometries are extended to domains which are 
topologically rectangular. The solution domain is also extended to the fictitious area and assumed to satisfy the same 
governing equation in it and on its boundaries. The boundary conditions are still specified on the boundaries of the 
original physical domain. The problem in the extended domain becomes ill-posed. However, it can be easily circum-
vented by the collocation method. Applying this approach to several test problems with arbitrary geometries, we dem-
onstrate that the solution can be directly obtained without domain decompositions and iterations. The new approach is 
simple, efficient and accurate. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
There are many numerical methods available to 
solve elliptic partial differential equations with or with-
out heat sources. Traditionally, they can be solved by 
finite difference, finite element, and boundary element 
methods [6]. Recently, the meshless method has become 
an alternative to these methods due to its advantages of 
no meshing and remeshing requirements. The meshless 
method solves differential equations only on the basis of 
a group of scattered points. Therefore, it needs no labo-
rious mesh generation. In addition, another advantage 
which can be achieved by the meshless methos is a more 
accurate description of arbitrary complicated geometries. 
There are several formulation approaches in the 
domain of meshless methods. Among them, the radial 
basis function collocation methods have been widely 
investigated and applied to many physical mathematical 
problems including heat transfer [2, 4, 21]. They are true 
meshless methods. Furthermore, the approximation of 
radial basis functions has higher-order smoothness and 
needs no further post-processing. 
The radial basis function collocation methods can 
be further divided into the boundary-type and the do-
main-type ones. In applications, the boundary-type 
methods usually need further elaboration of the govern-
ing equation and express it in a way similar to the 
boundary element formulation. For example, Tanaka et al. 
[18] used a compactly supported radial basis function to 
develop a dual-reciprocity boundary element formulation 
for the steady-state heat conduction problem. 
The domain-type collocation methods, on the con-
trary, can be directly applied to the governing equation 
after the type of radial basis function is chosen and the 
collocation points are properly selected. Owing to their 
simplicity, many studies have been carried out with dif-
ferent radial basis functions in the past decade. Sharan et 
al. [16] considered the heat conduction problem in an 
ellipse. They showed dramatic efficiencies in computa-
tion with the exponentially convergent multiquadric ra-
dial basis function collocation scheme. Later, Zerroukat 
et al. [21] employed both the thin plate splines and the 
multiquadrics to develop the numerical schemes and ap-
plied to unsteady heat conduction problems in one and 
two spatial dimensions. More recently, La Rocca et al. [7] 
developed the Hermite radial basis function collocation 
approach to solve time-dependent convection-diffusion 
problems. They demonstrated that accurate numerical 
solution could be achieved even in cases of strong vari-
able velocity field. Ahmed [1] combined thin plate and 
multiquadric types of radial basis functions to study heat 
conduction and diffusion problems. He attempted to cir-
cumvent disadvantages of these two functions and, 
meanwhile, take advantages of them. In addition, Cheng 
and Cabral [3] applied the multiquadrics to study 
ill-posed problems. They showed that the solution could 
be accomplished without iterations. 
6th International Congress on Industrial and Applied Mathematics
Zurich, Switzerland
16-20 July, 2006
 3
thermore, the inverse multiquadric radial basis function 
leads to a positively definite coefficient system. There-
fore, it can be directly employed for computations with-
out augmentation of any leading terms, which is the only 
exception in the multiquadric family [14].  
To determine the constant coefficients, iα , we re-
quire the approximate solution, Eq. (4), satisfy the gov-
erning equation and boundary conditions at the proper 
collocation points.  
;),()(
1
2 Ω∈=∇∑
=
jj
N
i
jii f x      xxφα           (6) 
;),()( 1
1
Ω∂∈=∑
=
jj
N
i
jii g x      xxφα          (7) 
.),(
)(
2
1
Ω∂∈=∂
∂∑
=
jj
N
i
ji
i hn
x      x
xφα          (8) 
The above linear equation system consists of N equations 
and can be solved for iα . 
FICTITIOUS DOMAIN EXTENSION 
The procedure discussed above seems quite 
straightforward and ready for applications. However, a 
direct application to problems with arbitrary domains 
does not always lead to convergent and meaningful re-
sults. This is especially true when the domain is not 
geometrically convex. It appears that when applied to 
solve differential equations, the inverse multiquadric 
functions are suitable only for problems in convex do-
mains. This is a severe restriction in engineering applica-
tions in that the physical domains are usually compli-
cated and not necessarily convex. 
To cure this problem, we propose to extend the 
physical domain. In this approach, some fictitious do-
mains are added to the physical one to form a topologi-
cally rectangular one which is convex. An example is 
shown in Figure 1. Suppose that the domain in Figure 1(a) 
is the physical domain where the heat conduction takes 
place. We extend the domain by adding two fictitious 
ones as shown in Figure 1(b) so that a topological rec-
tangle is formed. Then we apply the radial basis function 
collocation method in the whole extended domain for 
computations. 
Mathematically, let fΩ  and fΩ∂  denote the fic-
titious domains and the extended fictitious boundaries, 
respectively. We denote the extended domain by 
fe Ω∪Ω=Ω . In addition, we extend the solution do-
main of the governing equation (1) to eΩ  by assuming 
that it is also satisfied in fΩ . That is, 
ef Ω∈=∇ x      x),(2φ               (9) 
Of course, the boundary conditions on the physical do-
main, Eqs. (2) and (3), still hold for a proper solution to 
be obtained. 
While the radial basis function collocation method 
becomes applicable with such an extension, it appears 
that another new problem arises. The problem in the ex-
tended domain becomes ill-posed in that some conditions 
are specified in the interior of eΩ  and no conditions are 
ever specified on fΩ∂ . Fortunately, the radial basis 
function collocation method can be directly applied to 
this kind of ill-posed problems as to a well-posed one 
without any modification. This has been successfully 
demonstrated by Cheng and Cabral [3]. 
Therefore, we may proceed to solving Eq. (9) com-
putationally by the radial basis function collocation 
method with the inverse multiquadric function. For a 
particular set of collocation points properly distributed in 
the extended domain, we assume that the numbers in the 
physical and fictitious domains are pN  and fN , re-
spectively. The total number of the collocation points is 
fP NNN += . For those points in eΩ  but not on 1Ω∂  
and 2Ω∂ , the approximate solution, Eq. (4), must satisfy 
the governing, Eq. (9); that is, 
).()(
1
2
j
N
i
jii f xx =∇∑
=
φα              (10) 
The algebraic equations in Eqs. (7), (8), and (10) consti-
tute a simultaneous system of order N and can be solved 
for the constant coefficients. 
Finally, we like to point out that the way to extend 
the physical domain is, of course, not unique. The rule of 
thumb is that we should keep the fictitious region as 
small as possible so that the number of collocation points 
in it can be substantially reduced to a minimum. 
SOME TESTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
Three typical heat conduction problems with arbi-
trary domains subject to Dirichlet and/or Neumann 
(a) The physical domain. 
 
(b) The extended domain with two fictitious regions.
Figure 1 An example of domain extension for an arbi-
trary shape. 
 5
( 1=R ). This case was studied by Smith et al. [17] and 
Li and Hon [10] to demonstrate the numerical conver-
gence of domain decomposition approaches with differ-
ent numerical schemes. As described by Li and Hon [10] 
and Ling and Kansa [11], the domain was considered as 
a “nontrivial” one in the application of meshless methods 
employing radial basis functions.  
Shown in Figure 5, the physical domain was ex-
tended by adding two fictitious areas. Next, a set of col-
location points is selected and properly distributed in 
both the physical and fictitious regions. For computa-
tions, we designed the collocation grid with 189=pN  
and ,64=fN  as shown in Figure 5. The total number 
of collocation points is 253=+= fP NNN . The 
computation at 6.0=c  shows that the L2 and L∞ norms 
of error are 410425.6 −×  and 310573.2 −× , respectively. 
For comparison, Li and Hon [10] decomposed the 
physical domain into two sub-domains, a square and a 
circle. Their results show that with 121 collocation points 
in each sub-domain, the L∞ norm of error is 21022.1 −×  
with the conical basis function 5ir  and 
31017.5 −×  
with another conical basis function 7ir  after 15 itera-
tions. Obviously, the results by the domain extension 
approach are comparable in accuracy to those obtained 
by the domain decomposition techniques. Nevetheless, in 
the present approach, the solution can be directly ob-
tained without iterations. This implies that the computa-
tion procedure can be simplified and accelerated without 
loss of robustness and accuracy. 
(3) Case 3: Conduction with heat flux boundary con-
ditions in an L-shape domain. 
As the last test case, we consider the heat transfer 
problem without heat sources in an L-shape domain as 
shown in Figure 6. The boundary conditions are shown 
in Figure 7. The heat flux condition is specified on the 
right side of the boundaries. On the right side of the 
boundaries, a linear temperature distribution is pre-
scribed. On all other sides, the constant temperature con-
ditions are imposed. 
A similar heat conduction problem in the same do-
main was discussed by Li et al. [9]. As mentioned above, 
they first assumed a simple exact solution. According to 
this solution, they specified the heat source distribution 
in the interior domain and the Dirichlet conditions all 
 
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
R 
 
Figure 4 The domain of Case 2. 
 
 
Figure 5 The collocation points for the extended do-
main of Case 2. 
 
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
 
Figure 6 The L-shape domain of Case 3. 
φ = 0
φ = 0
φ = 1
φ = 0
φ = 1 – y
φ = 1 – 2y
 
Figure 7 Boundary conditions for Case 3. 
 7
CONCLUDING REMARKS 
In this study, we proposed a domain extension ap-
proach to solve the heat conduction problem in an arbi-
trary domain by the radial basis function collocation 
method. The basic idea is to extend the physical domain 
by adding fictitious regions to form a topological rectan-
gle. In addition, we assume that the governing equation 
is satisfied in the fictitious regions. Several test cases 
have been discussed and the validity of the new approach 
demonstrated. We conclude that the present approach is a 
general one in the sense it is applicable to all steady heat 
conduction problems in irregular domains. Compared to 
the domain decomposition technique, the present ap-
proach seems easier to implement in computations and 
requires no iterations. 
REFERENCES 
1. Ahmed, S.G., 2006, “A Collocation Method Using 
New Combined Radial Basis functions of Thin Plate 
and Multiquadric Types,” Engineering Analysis with 
Boundary Elements, Vol. 30, No. 8, pp. 697–701. 
2. Atluri, S.N. and Zhu, T.-L., 2000, “The Meshless 
Local Petrov-Galerkin (MLPG) Approach for Solv-
ing Problems in Elasto-Statics,” Computational 
Mechanics, Vol. 25, No. 2-3, pp. 169-179. 
3. Cheng, A.H.-D. and Cabral, J.J.S.P., 2005, “Direc-
tion Solution of Ill-Posed Boundary Value Problems 
by Radial Basis Function Collocation Method,” In-
ternational Journal for Numerical Methods in En-
gineering, Vol. 64, No. 1, pp. 45-64. 
4. Choe, H.J., Kim, D.W., Kim, H.H., and Kim, Y., 
2001, “Meshless Method for the Stationary Incom-
pressible Navier-Stokes Equations,” Discrete and 
Continuous Dynamic Systems, Series B, Vol. 1, No. 
4, pp. 495-526. 
5. Franke, R., 1982, “Scattered Data Interpolation: 
Tests of Some Methods,” Mathematics of Computa-
tion, Vol. 38, No. 157, pp. 181-200. 
6. Jaluria, Y. and Torrance, K.E., 2003, Computational 
Heat Transfer, 2nd ed., Taylor & Francis, London, 
UK. 
7. La Rocca, A., Hernandez Rosales, A., and Power, H., 
2005, “Radial Basis Function Hermite Collocation 
Approach for the Solution of Time Dependent Con-
vection–Diffusion Problems,” Engineering Analysis 
with Boundary Elements, Vol. 29, No. 4, pp. 
359–370. 
8. Li, J., 2004, “A Radial Basis Meshless Method for 
Solving Inverse Boundary Value Problems,” Com-
munications in Numerical Methods in Engineering, 
Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 51-60. 
9. Li, J., Cheng, A.H-D., and Chen, C.-S., 2003, “A 
Comparison of Efficiency and Error Convergence of 
Multiquadric Collocation Method and Finite Ele-
ment Method,” Engineering Analysis with Boundary 
Elements, Vol. 27, No. 3, pp. 251-257. 
10. Li, J. and Hon, Y.C., 2004, “Domain Decomposition 
for Radial Basis Meshless Method,” Numerical 
Methods for Partial Differential Equations, Vol. 20, 
No. 3, pp. 450-462. 
11. Ling, L. and Kansa, E.J., 2005, “Preconditioning for 
Radial Basis Functions with Domain Decomposition 
Methods,” Mathematical and Computer Modeling, 
Vol. 40, No. 13, pp. 1413-1427. 
12. Madych, W.R., 1992, “Miscellaneous Error Bounds 
for Multiquadric and Related Interpolators,” Com-
puters and Mathematics with Applications, Vol. 24, 
No. 12, pp. 121-138. 
13. Madych, W.R. and Nelson, S.A., 1992, “Bounds on 
Multivariate Polynomials and Exponential Error Es-
timates for Multiquadric Interpolation,” Journal of 
Approximation Theory, Vol. 70, No. 1, pp. 94-114. 
14. Micchelli, C.A., 1986, “Interpolation of Scattered 
Data: Distance Matrices and Conditionally Positive 
Definite Functions,” Constructive Approximation, 
Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 11-22. 
15. Powell, M.J.D., 1992, “The Theory of Radial Basis 
Function Approximation in 1990,” Advances in 
Numerical Analysis, W. Light ed., Vol. 2, Oxford 
Science Publications, Oxford, UK. 
16. Sharan, M., Kansa, E.J., and Gupta, S., 1997, “Ap-
plication of the Multiquadric Method for Numerical 
Solution of Elliptic Partial Differential Equations,” 
Applied Mathematics and Computation, Vol. 84, No. 
2-3, pp. 275-302. 
17. Smith, B.F., Bjorstad, P.E., and Gropp, W.D., 1996, 
Domain Decomposition: Parallel Multilevel Meth-
ods for Elliptic Partial Differential Equations, 
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK. 
18. Tanaka, M., Matsumoto, T., and Suda, Y., 2001, “A 
Dual Reciprocity Boundary Element Method Ap-
plied to Steady-State Heat Conduction Problem of 
Functionally Gradient Materials,” Transactions of 
the Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers, Series A, 
Vol. 67, No. 662, pp. 35-40. 
19. Wendland, H., 1995, “Piecewise Polynomial, Posi-
tive Definite and Compactly Supported Radial Basis 
Functions of Minimal Degree,” Advances in Com-
putational Mathematics, Vol. 4, No. 1, pp. 389-396. 
20. Wu, Z., 1992, “Hermite-Birkhoff Interpolation of 
Scattered Data by Radial Basis Function,” Approxi-
mate Theory of Applications, Vol. 8, No. 2, pp. 1-10, 
1992. 
