2關鍵字：光學微影、微波快速加熱、選區成長、金/銀核層、奈米材料
中文摘要：
本論文中，我們發展一種在矽晶片上製備圖案化金/銀核層奈米材料的新方法。在製作
上，我們先將球型金奈米粒子在胺基官能化與圖案化後的矽晶片上藉由金—胺基之間專一
性吸附力，形成圖案化金奈米粒子單層膜。將這些金奈米粒子當作成長金/銀核層奈米材料
的核種，然後將存在於檸檬酸鈉的銀離子於微波快速加熱的輔助下於金奈米核種的表面產
生快速還原反應，以完成金/銀核層奈米材料的製備。藉由掃描式電子顯微鏡觀測影像結果
後得知，本方法可以製備出高密度且分散均勻的圖案化金/銀核層奈米結構。此圖案化金/
銀核層奈米結構具有製程簡易與製程再現性良好的優點，相信這個製程策略對未來在奈米
科技的相關研究上會有所幫助。
Keywords: Patterning, Au/Ag, Core/Shell, Nanoparticles, Films, Microwave
English Abstract：
We demonstrate a novel approach for the production of patterned films of
nanometer-sized Au/Ag bimetallic core/shell nanoparticles (NPs) on silicon wafers. In this
approach, we first self-assembled monodisperse Au NPs—through specific Au-NH2
interactions—onto a silicon substrate whose surface had been modified with a pattern of
3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane (APTMS) groups to form a sandwich structure having the form
Au NPs/APTMS/SiO2. These Au NPs then served as seeds for growing the Au/Ag bimetallic
core/shell NPs: we reduced silver ions to Ag metal on the surface of Au seeds under rapid
microwave (MW) heating in the presence of sodium citrate. The patterned structures that can be
formed are simple to produce, easily controllable, and highly reproducible; we believe that this
approach will be useful for further studies of nano-devices and their properties.
4orders of magnitude, (b) the initial heating process is rapid, and (c) the MW irradiation induces
the generation of localized high temperatures at reaction sites, which enhances reaction rates.
Although free suspensions of Ag NPs may be prepared in aqueous solutions by using a highly
efficient rapid MW heating approach,16 no studies have reported the selective growth of Ag
nanostructures onto silicon wafers through the use of this method. Clearly, it is worthwhile to
investigate the use of MW-mediated synthetic methods for the rapid preparation of patterned Ag
NPs as a means to promote studies in colloidal physics and chemistry, especially those that
combine nanotechnology with biotechnology, a subject that has received considerable attention
recently.17
III. Purpose of this study
We believed that the fabrication of selectively patterned Ag NP films on silicon wafers
would be feasible through the use of a combination of optical lithography and rapid MW heating.
A previous article has demonstrated that it is possible to pattern Au NPs selectively onto a
specified area through the use of lithographic approaches.3 Because Ag and Au NPs share the
same crystal structure (i.e., face-centered cubic structures of space group Fm3m) and their lattice
parameters match closely,18 we believed that it would be relatively easy to prepare a Au NP-based
film and then introduce the Ag components onto that surface. Such an approach may be a very
promising one for depositing Ag nanostructures onto micron-sized patterns through the
intermediacy of Au seeds.
IV. Results and discussion
Preparation of Au NPs films
Prior to the deposition of Au NPs, we deposited the SiO2 films on silicon wafers by
employing an HDP-CVD system. Then, we coated an APTMS layer, an adhesion agent for Au
NPs, onto the surface of the SiO2 film by immersing the substrate into an ethanol solution
containing APTMS and then heating it under reflux for several hours. After rinsing with ethanol
and deionized water, the substrates were dried under a N2 purge. Figure 1 displays a SEM
image of the structure patterned with Au NPs. This image reveals that the Au NPs were
scattered well on the surface of the patterned APTMS-coated silicon substrate; the Au
NPs/APTMS/SiO2 sandwich structures are stabilized through specific Au–NH2 interactions.19
6measured a TEM image of the suspension materials that were prepared using a method similar to
the one described in this paper. The preparation of the suspended NPs in this study involved
two steps. The first step of this synthesis involved the formation of gold NPs by the reduction
of HAuCl4 with citrate. In the second step, a mixed aqueous media solution consisting of
AgNO3, sodium citrate, and gold seeds was reacted in a microwave heating system. The
reaction temperature was controlled at desired temperature. Finally, the product was centrifuged
once with the mother liquid and then a few times with water. The TEM image in Figure 3
clearly indicates that the microwave-prepared NPs have core/shell structures. The results
presented in Figure 3 clearly display that the composition of each individual particle is that of a
core that is populated with Au and a shell that is composed of Ag. On the basis of these findings,
we conclude that the NPs we produced have core/shell Au/Ag structures.
Figure 3. TEM image of the core/shell structure that was obtained from the microwave reaction.
The scale bar has a length of 5 nm.
V. Conclusion
Through a combination of a reliable lithography patterning technology and rapid MW
heating, we have demonstrated that Au/Ag bimetallic core/shell NPs can be grown selectively
onto specific locations of a silicon wafer. Moreover, our preliminary studies suggest that the
successful formation of patterned Au/Ag bimetallic core/shell NP films on silicon wafers is
controlled mainly by the use of patterned Au NPs as seeds. Although we used a very simple
pattern in this study, it is clear that the strategy we have demonstrated here can be extended
readily to other patterns and to other materials. Our procedure may be useful for the design of
