 - 2 -
中文摘要 
   非對稱耦合線傳輸零點的新公式應用於窄頻帶帶拒濾波器，利用各埠
之間電壓及電流關係得到非對稱耦合線串接散射參數，額外提供兩個變
數增加設計濾波器時方便。使用最佳化演算法調整非對稱耦合線的特性
阻抗使得信號線的轉移函數的接近理想濾波器的系統函數。 
關鍵詞-非對稱耦合線、帶拒濾波器 
    
英文摘要 
A new formulation of equal-length asymmetric parallel coupled line (APCLs) having 
transmission zero is employed to study narrow-band band-stop filters. The chain-scattering 
parameters of an APCL are obtained by the relationships between port voltages and currents. 
Such representations offer additional flexibility in the design of filter circuits through two extra 
variables. An optimization algorithm is used to tune the characteristic impedances of APCLs so 
that the transfer function of the signal line is close to the system function of an ideal prototype 
filter. 
Keywords- asymmetric coupled line, band-stop filter 
 
報告內容： 
前言: 
  A microwave system consists of a number of components including filters [1]-[10], amplifiers 
and others. Filters are two-port networks capable of allowing transmission of signals over the 
pass-band and rejecting all signals over the stop-band. 
研究目的: 
  Coupled lines are important means to implement filters. It is therefore pertinent to explore the 
characteristics of coupled lines. When compared with symmetric parallel coupled line, an APCL 
offer additional flexibility in the design of various circuits through two extra variables of 
characteristic impedances. This could lead to small values of characteristic impedances and wider 
strip widths of transmission lines. As a result, filters with small insertion loss in the pass-band can 
be obtained. The motivation of this study is to address the characteristics of APCLs in the Z 
domain and explore their applications to band-stop filters. 
文獻探討: 
  Many authors had contributed significantly to the study of asymmetric coupled lines. V. K. 
Tripathi [6] analyzed a uniform asymmetrical coupled-line in an inhomogeneous medium. 
El-Deeb [7] investigated design parameters in terms of self and mutual capacitances that help in 
the design of couplers and filters. Bedair [8] explored the characteristics of asymmetrical coupled 
transmission lines. Most of previous studies focused on the basic characteristics of an individual 
APCL and the synthesis method of filters employing APCLs is largely ignored. In this paper, the 
scattering characteristics of an APCL is expressed in terms of the time-delay factor 1−z  in the Z 
domain, wherein each APCL contributes to a zero at z=-1 ( πθ = ). This reveals that we may 
employ them to design discrete-time Butterworth band-stop filters. Compared conventional 
 - 4 -
representing the i-th element. If the network consists of M sections of APCLs, the matrix element 
)(,11 zT network  of the overall network is as follows 
 
)3(
)1(
)(
,1
12/
2
0
,11 ∏
∑
=
−−
=
−
+
= M
m
M
M
i
i
i
network
zz
zA
zT  
where 2/Mz −  represents the time delay, iA  is a real number, and the value of iA  is determined 
by reference characteristic impedance Z0, even-mode characteristic impedances aeZ 0  and 
b
eZ 0 , 
odd-mode characteristic impedances aoZ 0  and 
b
oZ 0  of every APCL. 
When the output port of the cascade network is properly terminated, the transfer function 
)(zT  of such a network becomes 
)4(
)1(
)(
1)(
2
0
1
1
2/
11
i
M
i
i
M
mM
zA
z
z
zT
zT
−
=
=
−
−
∑
∏ +
=
=
 
We assume that a band-stop filter is represented by an ideal digital filter )(zF . The work 
for design and implementation of a filter with system function )(zF  is to determine the 
configuration of a transmission-line network that emulates the system function )(zF . For a 
band-stop filter, we use low-pass APCLs as shown in Fig. 1. The formulation of transfer function 
of the transmission-line network )(zT  can then be determined by the number of APCLs. 
 
結果與討論: 
Two Butterworth band-stop filters are presented to illustrate the above scheme. For the first 
example, the central frequency of the filter is set to 3 GHz and the bandwidth is 10 %. We 
consider a second-order digital Butterworth low-pass filter with a cut-off frequency at 0.95 of the 
normalizing frequency. The discrete-time system function of such a filter is as follows 
)6(,)( 2
0
2
0
∑
∑
=
−
=
−
=
i
i
i
j
j
j
za
zb
zF  
where { jb , 0≤ j ≤ 2}={0.8949, 1.7897, 0.8949}, and { ia , 0≤ i≤ 2}={1.0000, 1.7786, 0.8008}. 
The filter prototype )(zF  shown in Equation (6) is a low-pass filter within the range 
πθ ≤≤ 20 . However, when we unfold the magnitude function )(zF  on the frequency axis, 
 - 6 -
insertion loss of the pass-band is 0.25 dB. As shown in the Table I, comparing APCL with PCL 
[10] IEE reference, APCL has low insertion loss in the pass-band. In addition, two extra variables, 
which enlarge the characteristic impedances of designing range, offer additional flexibility in the 
design of filter circuits; optimization algorithms find solutions quickly. As shown in the figure, 
the measured scattering parameter 21S  agrees very well with the theoretical value 21S  over the 
signal frequency band of interest. 
Conclusion 
The characteristic parameters of a low-pass APCL were expressed in the Z domain. Two 
additional characteristic impedance parameters of each APCL facilitated the optimization 
solutions in the process of obtaining the characteristic impedances of transmission lines. The 
experimental results revealed that APCLs filters could provide low insertion loss at both low and 
high pass bands. The close agreement between theoretical values and experimental results had 
illustrated the validity of this method. 
 
References 
[1]  M. L. Roy, A. Perennec, S. Toutain and L. C. Calvez, “The continuously varying transmission-line 
technique-application to filter design,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 47, pp. 1680-1687, 
Sept 1999. 
[2]  E. G. Cristal, “Coupled-Transmission-Line Directional Couplers with Coupled Lines of 
Unequal Characteristic Impedances,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 14, 
pp.337-346, July 1966. 
[3]  G. I. Zysman and A. K. Johnson, “Coupled Transmission Line Network in an 
Inhomogeneous Dielectric Medium,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., Vol. 17, pp. 
753-759, Oct 1969. 
[4]  L. B. Minakova and L. A. Rud, “Waveguide bandstop filters based on partially filled 
H-plane stubs”, MIKON-2002 14th International Conference on Microwaves, Radar and 
Wireless Communications, 2002. 
[5]  Jun-Seok Park, Jun-Sik Yun and Dal Ahn “A design of the novel coupled-line bandpass 
filter using defected ground structure with wide stopband performance” IEEE Trans. 
Microwave Theory and Tech., Vol. 50, pp. 2037 –2043, Sept 2002. 
[6]  V. K. Tripathi, “Asymmetric Coupled Transmission Lines in an In homogeneous Medium,” 
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Tech., Vol. 23, pp. 734–739, Sept 1975. 
[7]  N. A. El-Deeb, Esmat A. F. Abdallah and M. B. Saleh, “Design Parameters of 
Inhomogeneous Asymmetrical Coupled Transmission Lines,” IEEE Trans. Microwave 
Theory and Tech., Vol. 83, pp. 592–596, July 1983. 
[8]  S. S. Bedair, “Characteristics of Some Asymmtrical Coupled Transmission     Lines,” 
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Tech., Vol. 32, pp. 108 –110, Jan 1984. 
[9]  Arne B. Dalby, “From Microwave Filter to Digital Filter and Back Again,” Proc 19th 
 - 8 -
 
 
Fig. 4 A four-section low-pass APCL Butterworth band-stop filter with a central frequency of 4 
GHz. 
 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
-50
-45
-40
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
Frequency (GHz)
M
ag
ni
tu
de
 R
es
po
ns
e 
(d
B
)
Theoretical |S21|
Theoretical |S11|
Measured |S11|   
Measured |S21|   
 
Fig. 5 Measured reflected and transmitted scattering coefficients at input and output ports of the 
band-stop filter shown in Fig. 4. 
 
Table I. Comparing APCL with PCL different characteristics on insertion loss and optimization 
algorithms. 
 
Comparing APCL with PCL 
different characteristics 
Four-Order Filters Insertion 
Loss in the Pass-Band 
Optimization Algorithms 
APCL 0.25 dB 
Two extra variables provide 
large impedances range to 
find solutions 
PCL 0.5 dB 
Spending more time to find 
solutions 
 
計畫成果自評部份: 
  本計畫以離散時間技術設計非對稱耦合微帶線瀘波器及方向耦合器。 
一、瀘波器部份 
  研究內容利用數位信號處理 Z轉換技術推導出非對稱耦合微帶線瀘波器 Z Domain 的 T 矩
陣，成功設計出非對稱耦合微帶瀘波器，並且於 2007 年 6 月投稿至日本 IEICE 
COMMUNICATIONS 期刊。 
二、方向耦合器部份 
  已經推導出新的方向耦合器 Z Domain 公式，由研究助理正進行模擬中，新的設計方法以
