and process of WLUF. The use of WLUF with a low 
coefficient of thermal expansion and a low Young＇s 
modulus is beneficial because it reduces plastic 
strain of critical microbumps. The use of layout 
designs for microbump arrays with arranged dummy 
joints significantly improves the co-planarity of the 
whole packaging structure. The simulated predictions 
indicate that when more than three dummy joints are 
placed near the outermost microbump, the warping 
variation between the packaging center and the chip 
edge at the top surface of a package under a load of 
a 2.0 kg bonding force would be less than 70 nm. 
Simultaneously, a minimum equivalent plastic strain 
of ~0.87% on the critical microbump is obtained 
during a thermal cycling load. 
英文關鍵詞： 3D-ICs package, TSV technology, Finite element 
method, Warpage, Packaging reliability 
 
 2
計畫名稱：使用矽穿孔技術接合三維晶片之封裝結構翹曲行為研究與可靠度分析 
中文摘要：為了加強三維晶片封裝的微凸塊在多層晶片堆疊過程與溫度熱循環試驗下之組裝品質與力
學可靠度，一創新之晶圓級底填膠（WLUF）之製造技術被發展用以解決上述這些問題，然而，嚴重
的封裝翹曲行為之發生與堆疊晶片間之間隙減少等問題在晶圓級底填膠製程之熱壓方式組裝中被觀察
出來，上述之翹曲等問題在三維晶片封裝結構之組裝應該是要極力予以避免。為了要解決此一急迫之
問題，本計畫研究提出一基於有限元素法之製程導向之應力模擬予以探討此基礎問題。並藉由與實驗
資料之比對驗證，用以增進比計畫所提之模擬方法之正確性。結果指出，主要影響在晶片堆疊晶片封
裝型態之熱應力之因子來自於晶圓級底填膠之機械材料性質與顯著之製程溫度差異。當晶圓級底填膠
具有一低熱膨脹係數與低彈性模數時，研究指出此時對於關鍵位置上之微凸塊可降低其塑性應變值，
此外，藉由微凸塊陣列之位置排列的設計將可以顯著改善晶片堆疊之翹取行為，維持一可接受之共平
面性。模擬結果指出，將使用至少三個之啞微凸塊接點其座落於關鍵位置上之微凸塊附近區域時，封
裝中心位置與其邊緣位置之翹曲量差異在 2.0 公斤之接合力量之作用下，其值約少於 70 奈米；同時，
在溫度熱循環下之最大等效塑性應變值約縮減至約 0.87%。 
Abstract：To enhance the assembly quality and mechanical reliability of microbumps during the stacking 
process of multiple thin chips and during temperature cycling tests, a novel wafer-level underfill (WLUF) 
fabrication technique has been proposed to resolve these problems. However, the occurrence of a severely 
warped condition or gap reduction between stacked chips has been observed during WLUF assembly with 
thermal compression. This condition prevents the objective achievement of a three-dimensional integrated 
circuit package. To address such an urgent issue, this study presents process-oriented stress simulation based 
on the finite element method to determine its root cause. Using a comparison with experimental data, results 
indicate that the major influential factors inducing thermomechanical stress within a chip-on-chip package are 
caused by a large temperature difference in the mechanical properties and process of WLUF. The use of 
WLUF with a low coefficient of thermal expansion and a low Young’s modulus is beneficial because it 
reduces plastic strain of critical microbumps. The use of layout designs for microbump arrays with arranged 
dummy joints significantly improves the co-planarity of the whole packaging structure. The simulated 
predictions indicate that when more than three dummy joints are placed near the outermost microbump, the 
warping variation between the packaging center and the chip edge at the top surface of a package under a load 
of a 2.0 kg bonding force would be less than 70 nm. Simultaneously, a minimum equivalent plastic strain of 
~0.87% on the critical microbump is obtained during a thermal cycling load. 
 
 4
Factor =1.261, Ranking 16/39, Engineering, Manufacturing) 
7 C. C. Lee* and S. T. Chang, “Stress Impact of a Tensile CESL 
on Nanoscale Strained NMOSFETs Embedded with a 
Silicon-Carbon Alloy Stressor,” Journal of Nanoscience and 
Nanotechnology, Vol. 12, No. 7, pp. 5342-5346, Jul. 2012. 
(SCI Journal, Impact Factor =1.149, Ranking 48/68, Physics, 
Condensed Matter) 
48/68 通訊作者 
8 C. C. Lee*, “Strain Engineering of Nanoscale Si PMOSFET 
Devices with SiGe Alloy Integrated with CESL Stressors,”
Journal of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology, Vol. 12, No. 7, 
pp. 5402-5406, Jul. 2012. (SCI Journal, Impact Factor 
=1.149, Ranking 48/68, Physics, Condensed Matter) 
48/68 通訊作者 
9 C. C. Lee*, Y. S. Shih, C. S. Wu, C. H. Tsai, S. T. Yeh, Y. H.
Peng, and K. J. Chen, “Development of Robust Flexible 
OLED Encapsulations Using Simulated Estimations and 
Experimental Validations,” Journal of Physics D: Applied 
Physics, Vol. 45, No. 27, pp. 275102, Jul. 2012. (SCI Journal, 
Impact Factor =2.544, Ranking 26/125, Physics, Applied) 
26/125 
通訊作者 
本論文獲選該期期刊封
面 
 
 
本計畫研究主要成果如以下詳細說明： 
Introduction 
Three-dimensional (3D) integrated circuit (IC) packaging has been given much attention because it 
possesses several advantages over the traditional packaging technology, such as its high interconnect density, 
superior form factor, the integration of heterogeneous functions, and desirable performance [1]. Multi-chip 
stacking with a thinning procedure is generally implemented using simultaneous Cu–Cu or Cu–Sn 
thermocompression and adhesive buffer layer bonding [2]. However, this approach is still at the infancy stage 
and must be further developed to meet the reliability requirements and corresponding yields of the 
microelectronic industry. Consequently, the promising flip chip bonding process combined with the 
architecture of through-silicon via (TSV) is widely utilized in chip-to-chip interconnects of 3D integrations 
[3–4]. Meanwhile, numerous critical reliability issues regarding the effects of TSVs and microbumps on 
thermal dissipation [5], joule heating, electromigration, stress-migration, cracking failure, and the structural 
warping of a stacked chips assembly [6–7] have become severely challenging and require urgent resolution 
 6
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 1 Schematic of the packaging framework: (a) layout of microbump regions in chip-on chip 
packaging; (b) cross-sectional view and related dimensions of microbump arrays. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Compressive magnitude of microbump deformation at the center and edge region of packaging 
structure with several thermal-compression loads. 
 
Theory of Thermal Stress 
The major driving force of structural failure caused by thermal stress has been a long-term concern for 
electronic devices. This observation is particularly true because thermal stress has an important influence on 
the reliability of 3D-IC packages. The sources of thermal stress could be grouped into two: (1) a temperature 
gradient distributed around a single material such as the operated condition of a silicon chip; and (2) the 
assembly of materials at the bonding interface with different thermal extensions under the thermal cycling 
load or the temperature of the fabrication process. Usually, these phenomenons can be observed during tests 
of electronic packages and the film deposition of IC chips. In this study, a simulated analysis based on the 
 8
structure based on the assumption of plane strain. A total of 67 microbumps with a pitch of 30 μm in this FEA 
model is observed. Given that the broad region outside the microbump arrays is a rich WLUF that has a weak 
support, the shape of the WLUF fillet is evidently dependent on the bonding force, as shown in Fig. 3. 
Therefore, the actual geometries and components are introduced into an FEM in accordance with the loading 
conditions. The critical microbump is notably at the outermost location from the packaging center. Thus, the 
maximum thermal stress/strain caused by the CTE mismatch among material components occurs on the 
furthest site of microbump array. All the required material properties for the stress simulations are listed at 
Table 1. Here, the IMC and SnAg solders are supposed to be multilinear-elastic and nonlinear, respectively, to 
temperature dependence.  
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 3 Specimens and stress models of a package with stacking thin chips. (a) Enlarged cross-sectional 
views close to the region of critical bumps and fillet of WLUF. (b) Half-symmetry of FEM for the 
packaging structure. 
 
Table 1 Properties of the materials in the proposed nonlinear stress simulation. 
Materials Young’s modulus (E) CTE (ppm/℃) Poisson’s Ratio 
Si 169.5 GPa 3 0.28 
Cu 
E = 122 GPa 
Ref. T = 25℃ 
Yield stress = 173 MPa 
ET = 1.2 GPa 
17 0.35 
Passivation (Si3N4) 155 GPa 5 0.28 
Wafer-level underfill 6.8GPa@ 25C 53 0.33 
SnAg solder Temperature dependence 22.5 0.4 
IMC 
(Ni3Sn4) 
85.6 GPa 
-40℃:16.3 
25℃:17.6 
50℃:18.1 
125℃:19.3 
0.31 
Ni 186 12.5 0.342 
Al 72 GPa 24 0.36 
 
 10
micrograph of real specimens after testing (Fig. 4(a)). This observation can be attributed to the characteristic 
brittleness of the IMC, which weakens the material and makes it easily damaged by stress. Moreover, the 
presented simulations are intended to confidently perform predictions using the factors mentioned in this 
study. 
 
Material Property Effects of WLUF on the Cu/Ni/SnAg Microbump Assembly 
The material properties of traditional underfills used in flip chip technology having low-k chips are 
dominant factors that determine the failure mode of the whole packaging structure and their related long-term 
mechanical reliability. Consequently, both the CTE and Young’s modulus of WLUF undergo parametric 
analysis to discuss their effects on the magnitude of plastic strain generated at the critical microbump. By 
considering the CTE of WLUF, the predicted results for the examined range of 5 ppm/°C to 53 ppm/°C are 
shown in Fig. 5. For the 50 μm-thick topmost chip, the maximum equivalent plastic strain is significantly 
reduced from 3.44% to 0.36% as the CTE of WLUF continues to decrease. This phenomenon can be 
explained by the decreased CTE mismatch between WULF and its neighboring bonded components, which 
contributes towards preventing thermal strain on the microbumps. Furthermore, the rigidity provided by the 
silicon chip is small, based on a comparison of chips with thicknesses of 50 μm and 720 μm.  
 
  
Fig. 5 Comparison of maximum equivalent plastic 
strain for several topmost chip thicknesses where the 
critical microbump is affected by different CTEs of 
WLUF. 
Fig. 6 Comparison of maximum equivalent plastic 
strain on the critical microbump of several topmost 
chip thicknesses as different values of the Young’s 
modulus of WLUF are considered. 
 
By taking the Young’s modulus of WLUF into account, a wide range between 1 GPa and 60 GPa is 
estimated, as shown in Fig. 6. The maximum equivalent strain that occurred on the critical microbump sharply 
 12
increased from 250 μm to 50 μm. Furthermore, the simulated results indicate that a decrease in the warping 
increment would be achieved as the dummy joint is gradually placed farther from the outermost real joint. 
Under a thermocompression load of 2 kg, the warping of the 50 μm-thick topmost chip can be evidently 
improved from 1.14 μm to 0.72 μm as the distance between the critical and dummy joints is increased to 150 
μm. The abovementioned behavior supports the observation that strong structural support is provided by a 
dummy microbump in the WLUF region, close to the peripheral edges of the top chip. Moreover, the results 
shown in Fig. 8 show that the effect of the changing distance of the layout design between the critical and 
dummy joints to reduce warping is decreased with the increasing thickness of the topmost chip. For the 70 μm 
thick chip, a variation of the 0.11 μm warping increment in the presented examined distance parameter is 
attained. However, given the sufficient rigidity supplied by the topmost chip, the layout design of the dummy 
joint becomes ineffective for the 250 μm-thick topmost chip.  
 
  
Fig. 8 Maximum warping increments of four topmost 
chip thicknesses predicted by FEA as a different 
distance between critical and dummy microbumps is 
examined. 
Fig. 9 Curves for the maximum equivalent plastic 
strain of critical microbumps by considering different 
distances measured from the closest dummy 
microbump. 
 
By considering the same arranged design for a dummy joint during the stress simulation of thermal cycling 
tests, the maximum equivalent plastic strain of critical microbumps at different intervals is assessed from their 
adjacent dummy joints (Fig. 9). All the results when using the four topmost chips indicate that the smallest 
strain on the critical microbump occurs when the position of the dummy joint is closest to the outermost real 
one. For a 50 μm-thick topmost chip, 0.99% of the maximum strain in the critical joint is obtained, while a 30 
μm distance is evaluated from the nearest dummy joint. This behavior is attributed to the thermal strain shared 
by the outermost microbump and the dummy one. Meanwhile, Fig. 9 indicates that a thicker topmost chip 
 14
the packaging structure (only about 0.16 μm). Moreover, when a topmost chip thicker than 70 μm is used, a 
maximum warp on the chip edge of the topmost chip of approximately 0.529 μm is produced by arranging at 
least five dummy microbumps near the critical joint. Further elimination of the warp is then accomplished (a 
slight difference of 70 nm in the topmost surface of the packaging structures).  
 
  
Fig. 11 Increasing effect of dummy microbumps on 
the warping increments during a packaging assembly 
procedure using the thermocompression approach of 
WLUF. 
Fig. 12 Effect of increasing numbers of dummy 
microbumps on the variation of maximum equivalent 
plastic strain within the critical microbump for four 
topmost chip thicknesses. 
 
To restrain the equivalent plastic strain in the outermost microbump, the numbers of dummy joints from 
one to five are examined to investigate their effect on the micro-joint reliability. As shown in Fig. 12, the 
simulated results indicate that the plastic strain on a critical microbump is reduced from 1.12% to 0.87% as 
five dummy joints are introduced into the packaging assembly with a 50 μm-thick topmost chip. A rigid thick 
chip cannot release stress by structural deformation. Consequently, the shear strain on the microbump caused 
by CTE mismatch among material components could not be liberated via a suitable gateway. By designing 
with additional dummy joints, the diminished margin is particularly significant for the studied thicker topmost 
chip (Fig. 12). Furthermore, the strain within this microbump is directed toward a minimum magnitude of 
0.87%, regardless of the topmost chip thickness, as more than three dummy joint are considered in the 
packaging designs. 
 
Kriging-based Design Guidance (KDG) 
Various design requirements have different levels of allowable warpage and strain of the 3D ICs 
packaging with WLUF after the thermal compressions process. From the Kriging response surface models, 
 16
the optimal design point near the boundary of KDG satisfies the performance constraints may be less than 
50% if the design uncertainty is not negligible. In this section, a Reliability-Based Design Guidance (RBDG) 
is proposed to enhance the reliability of the design of 3D ICs packaging. 
 
Reliability Analysis 
In design optimization under uncertainty, the following probabilistic constraint is often formulated: 
 [ 0]  fP g PX  (5) 
 
 [ 0] 1 -  fP g PX  (6) 
where g  is the deterministic constraint function; X  is the randomly distributed design variable; fP  is the 
allowable failure probability. Suppose 0g  represent the deterministic performance requirement, Eq. (5) 
states the failure probability must be less than or equal to the allowable probability. Due to the uncertainty in 
X , the performance function ( )g X  is also randomly distributed. The evaluation of the failure probability in 
Eq. (6) can be completed by the integration of joint probability density function in the infeasible space. 
However, the integration process requires extremely large number of function evaluations. The reliability 
index B is utilized to represent the safety level of the design point, as in 
   * * *B ( )  T g gu uu u u  (7) 
where *u  is the most probable failure point in the standard normal u -space. In this paper, the required 
reliability level is defined by B B 3 f , also known as the three-sigma design. The allowable reliability is 
99.87%. 
 
Reliability-Based Design Guidance (RBDG) 
Lin et al. demonstrated a systematic strategy to design under uncertainty. The deterministic performance 
functions are first formulated using the Kriging response surface models associated with the performance 
upper limits chosen to meet the design requirement. A coordinate shifting is then applied to the Kriging model 
in terms of the reliability index to formulate the function RF  of the RBDG: 
    B ,   SR x fF CX Xw x    (8) 
where B f  is the required reliability index and   is the standard deviation of the randomly distributed 
 18
microbumps as well as the numbers of dummy joints. Through validation with experimental data, the 
simulated estimates of the process-oriented FEA indicate that increasing the number of dummy joints to more 
than three and arranging them close to the critical microbump could efficiently reduce the magnitude of 
warping, as well as the maximum plastic strain. The topmost chip thickness has a similar effect. With the 
application of a 2.0 kg bonding force, the difference of warping between the packaging center and the edge of 
the topmost chip could be reduced to 70 nm when the 70 μm-thick topmost chip is utilized. Thus, the 
co-planarity of the WLUF assembly could be well maintained. The estimated maximum equivalent plastic 
strain formed within a critical microbump is smaller than 0.87%, by considering at least three dummy joints in 
the packaging layout. Increasing the number of dummy joints reduces warping and the strain on real 
microbumps. However, an additional packaging area is necessary to include the abovementioned dummy 
joints. The arrangement of these microbumps for optimal mechanical reliability depends on the actual 
application. All the findings presented in this study can be regarded as FEA-based suggestions towards the 
development of WLUF for the assembly and mechanical reliability of advanced 3D-IC packages. 
Moreover, the design of 3D ICs packaging with WLUF under the thermal compression process has been 
studied experimentally and numerically. The thermo-mechanical failures may occur at the microbump 
structure due to the variations of thermal expansions of different materials. The stress/strain behaviors of the 
entire chip-on-chip assembly have been investigated using the FEA with the process-oriented simulation 
technique. The experiment results using the 50-μm-thick top chip validated the simulation data. The warpage 
and strain at the most critical microbumps varied with respect to two key design parameters: thickness of the 
top chip and the bonding force. The responses were parametrically modeled using the Kriging method. The 
parametric models showed top chip thickness of 50 μm led to server warpage formation. The design of 
dummy microbumps were arranged near the critical microbumps to improve the mechanical performance of 
the assembly structure. The simulation results showed the use of dummy microbumps at the position of 
120 μm away from the critical microbump decreased the warpage level of the 50-μm-thick design down to 
1 μm. However, the design points at the deterministic design guidance lead to more than 50% of probability of 
failure. Reliability-Based Design Guidance has been defined to perform the coordinate shifting to deliver 
safety buffers between the design points and the deterministic limit states. The Monte Carlo simulations 
confirmed the reliability levels of the design points. The proposed method not only can be used as the design 
guideline for the mechanical reliability of the 3D ICs packaging with WLUF and dummy microbumps but 
also can be applied to the multidisciplinary design optimization processes in the microelectronic packaging. 
 20
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
隨著半導體元件越做越小，摩爾定律每十八個月半導體性能會增加一倍，從 90nm 如
今到達 28nm 甚至於 20nm，尺寸上的不斷縮小，使得尺寸上到達了極限；為了突破現況，
半導體製程往三維去設計，但在 3D IC 設計中，由於平坦度與散熱問題進而發展 2.5D IC
矽穿孔技術。 
1. 研究 TSV interposer 的陣列設計，改變不同間距將使整體材料性質改變，並討論不同的
陣列設計對於材料性質的影響，將可使用研究結果設計於非關注的區域，將使成本大幅降
低。 
2. 晶圓級底部填膠(WLUF)使用倒裝芯片技術(FC)，提出了非線性有限元素法分析，用於
研究 WLUF 熱壓封裝的效果影響，在溫度循環試驗的應力預測也系統性探討，並在熱壓
過程中發現 μ-bump 因為溫度過高的關係，將會產生 IMC 層；IMC 層為脆性材料，將導致
裂縫的產生，而導致元件失效，並與實驗結果作驗證得到具高度可靠性的結果。 
3.並應用於半導體元件 TiN/Al 界面破裂上面，並討論在下方 low-k 材料中摻入一層金屬層
用以進行有限元素法分析，並發現裂紋在不同介面上所產生的應變能釋放率將是不一樣
的，並對於結構設計做進一步的探討。 
 
 22
二、 口頭報告過程與心得： 
本次投稿論文為 Reliability estimation and failure mode prediction for 3D chip stacking package with the 
application of wafer-level underfill 被邀請以口頭報告形式呈現，為開幕場第三篇發表，當時參與的各界
先進學者眾多，發表場地為法國 Grenoble 的一所研究中心(MINATEC)中，大多為法國當地專家人士，
發表時間為二十分鐘，當時被詢問一個關於尺寸效應問題。在會議中，亦有相關研究學者到場，彼此
也互相討論與交換研究心得，亦有增進參與者對此研究的興趣相互討論，進而對於彼此的研究增加更
多的刺激與新的思考。 
 
上圖為 MAM2012 會議現場 
 
三、 海報張貼過程與心得： 
    除了有發表一篇論文之外，尚有一篇 Impact of high density TSVs on the assembly of 3D-ICs 
packaging 為海報張貼，海報張貼為三月十二日五點半至七點半，時間約兩小時，本次有 43 篇論文張
貼，海報張貼位置佔據會議中庭大部分面積，於上午至會場時就已張貼海報於會場，使各界先進可以
有更多時間觀賞；於下午海報發表時亦有各國先進參觀海報張貼會場，海報尺寸為 A0 大小(約
80cmX120cm)；當時有較多日本專家蒞臨觀摩我們的研究，也作了相關的討論與探討；對於有興趣的
學者們也彼此交換名片，可作為進一步的聯絡，在彼此的討論中，激發出不同的火花，張貼海報的時
間也隨著討論的聲浪中落幕了。 
 
 
上圖為海報與我的合照 
 
 24
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：101 年 12 月 18 日 
 
一、 會議簡介 
    本次會議是在香港舉辦的 EMAP 2012 (14th International Conference on Electronic Materials and 
Packaging (EMAP 2012)國際研討會。本次會議的時間為 2012 年 12 月 13 日至 12 月 16 日。此國際研討
會於之前幾屆分別在新加坡（1999/2003/2010）、香港（2000/2006）、台灣（2002/2008）、韓國(2001/2007)、
馬來西亞(2004/2009)，以及日本（2005/2011）等亞洲各國舉辦，該研討會的主要目標為加強電子材料
與封裝技術於亞洲各國以及其他世界其他地區的研發能量與活動力；且作為學術界與產業連結溝通的
橋樑。而此研討會的另一目標為促進封裝材料、模擬設計、可靠度、製造、散熱管理，與微系統/微機
電整合封裝技術之前期研發與分析。此外，該研討會之議程邀請包含理論、數值與實驗等方面之口頭
報告論文；同時增加一些專業技術的課程，期以讓與會研發人員與學者能夠吸收一些技術主題的重要
資訊。而研討會所涵蓋之主題，包含關於電子材料、元件，與封裝技術之相關之基礎與應用科學方面
之領域，其內容包含下列幾項重要主題，分別如下： 
 Materials and Processing 
 Passive and Active Components 
 Optoelectronics / Photonics 
 Sensor, Actuator, and Transducer Technologies 
 Advanced Packaging 
 Emerging Packaging Technologies 
 Interconnection Technologies 
 System-in-Package (SiP) and 3D Stacked Die Packaging  
 Electrical Modeling, Characterization, and Signal Integrity 
 Thermal-Mechanical Modeling and Characterization  
 Packaging Technologies for High Brightness LEDs  
 Quality and Reliability 
計畫編號 NSC-100－2218－E－033－002－MY2 
計畫名稱 使用矽穿孔技術接合三維晶片之封裝結構翹曲行為研究與可靠度分析 
出國人員
姓名 李昌駿 
服務機構
及職稱 中原大學機械系助理教授 
會議時間 101 年 12 月 13 日至101 年 12 月 16 日 會議地點 香港(Hong Kong) 
會議名稱 EMAP 2012 (14
th International Conference on Electronic Materials and Packaging 
(EMAP 2012) 
發表論文
題目 
Assembly Analysis of Cu/Ni/SnAg Microbump for Stacking Thin Chips in a Fine Pitch 
Package Using a Wafer-level Underfill 
 26
述問題將可以克服解決。此外，在會議進行中間休息時間，亦有相關研究學者到場，彼此也互相討論
與交換研究心得，如本人認識高雄義守大學機械系徐祥禎教授，其亦是台灣傑出的封裝研究學者，彼
此交流討論一下三維晶片封裝技術的進展。而本人亦感到此會議有增進參與者對此研究的興趣相互討
論，進而對於彼此的研究增加更多的刺激與新的思考。 
 
  
上二圖為 EMAP 2012 會議現場 
 
三、 結論 
本次會議為亞洲重要的封裝研討會會議，其中一場 Session 為矽穿孔與三維晶片堆疊封裝技術，這
是因為三維晶片(3D ICs )為一高整合與微小化的解決方案：因此，三次元(3-Dimensional)方向堆疊之元
件模組遂成為新的熱門研究目標。而利用矽穿孔接合式技術則提供垂直導通之方式用以接合晶片堆
疊，以達到三維晶片間的電子訊號互連。此一技術能夠以更低的成本有效提高系統的整合度與效能。
然，對應之三維晶片封裝結構於接合組裝過程往往產生嚴重之可靠度問題，製程上尤其在對位與組裝
上特別嚴重；致使相對應之接點接合不易與在錫球接點產生過高的應力負載進而發生失效，衍生出整
體封裝結構之可靠度問題本次會議對於未來電子元件材料與因應之先進封裝技術對於元件微小化，提
出相當大的助益之見解與參考價值。 
在此特別感謝國科會提供經費上的補助，使得我能順利參與 EMAP2012 國際研討會的機會，
EMAP2012 國際研討會是每年一次在亞洲各國輪流舉辦的重要國際研討會，參與此研討會除可以增進
本人對於下一世代封裝專業技術與目前熱門之三維晶片封裝領域的相關知識外，亦可與國外目前從事
相關研究之科學家與先進學者進行的交流溝通。 
四、 攜回資料內容 
3. 會議論文發表程序冊 
4. EMAP2012 會議論文電子檔 
5. 當地資料與參展科技廠商資訊 
 
 
 28
二、 口頭論文報告過程與心得： 
本次投稿論文為 Evaluation of Cu/Ni/SnAg Microbump Bonding Processes for Thin-Chip-on-Chip Package 
Using a Wafer-Level Underfill Film 被邀請以口頭報告形式呈現，安排為會議第二天一早第一場(Section 
of Microscale and Nanoscale Mechanics)的第一篇發表，參與的各界先進學者相當踴躍，發表場地為美國
聖地亞哥 Sheraton San Diego Hotel and Marina 的 Coronado 會議室，與會者多為美國當地重要學者，如
來自美國紐約大學、喬治亞理工、德州儀器等公司等；發表時間約為二十分鐘，發表結束後的問題討
論，有學者提出 Wafer-level underfill film 的厚度要如何控制，以及熱壓力量要如何控制會比較恰當。
針對此問題，我的答覆為，Wafer-level underfill film 厚度的建議稍微比為凸塊接點(u-bump)之高度再高
一些，以利於 Wafer-level underfill film 被凸塊穿破而完成接點接合步驟。至於，熱壓力量的部分，由
於，實驗的進行只選擇幾種下壓力量進行相關電阻值的量測，並不能直接提供何種下壓力量比較合適
的參考資訊。因此，這個熱壓力量的製程參數可以在往後的製程參數最佳化的進行，予以系統性的討
論與說明。在會議中，亦有相關研究學者到場，彼此也互相討論與交換研究心得，亦有增進參與者對
此研究的興趣相互討論，進而對於彼此的研究增加更多的刺激與新的思考。 
 
  
上圖為 ITherm2012 會議現場 上圖為本人於論文口頭報告的過程 
 
三、 結論 
    在此特別感謝國科會提供經費上的補助，使得我能順利參與 Itherm2012 國際研討會的機會，
Itherm2012 國際研討會是每兩年一次在美國舉辦的重要國際研討會，參與此研討會除可以增進本人對
於下一世代封裝專業技術與目前熱門之三維晶片封裝領域的相關知識外，亦可與國外目前從事相關研
究之科學家與先進學者進行的交流溝通。同時，藉此機會，增加台灣在國際上能見度與展示台灣在電
子領域的研究能量與貢獻度。 
     
 
四、 攜回資料內容 
6. 會議論文發表程序冊 
7. Itherm2012 會議論文電子檔與隨身碟一個 
8. 當地資料與參展科技廠商資訊 
 
 30
內外大廠與會，諸如 Samsung、IBM、韓國 ASE、日本 J-Devices 等，主要分為二天來進行口頭報告，
主要會議重點為對於下一世代之積體電路而言，銅導線/低介電係數（Copper/low-k）晶片的製程微縮
已無法有效提升晶片效能；為了解決效能瓶頸，三維晶片(3D ICs )為一高整合與微小化的解決方案：
因此，三次元(3-Dimensional)方向堆疊之元件模組遂成為新的研究目標。而矽穿孔接合式技術則提供垂
直導通之方式用以接合晶片堆疊，以達到三維晶片間的電子訊號互連。此一技術能夠以更低的成本有
效提高系統的整合度與效能。然，對應之三維晶片封裝結構於接合組裝過程往往產生嚴重之可靠度問
題，製程上尤其在對位與組裝上特別嚴重；致使相對應之接點接合不易與在錫球接點產生過高的應力
負載進而發生失效，衍生出整體封裝結構之可靠度問題。有鑑於此，本次會議重點研究領域之討論在
於針對先進無鉛銲錫之微接點與三維晶片封裝接合之結構設計、疲勞破壞模式，模擬預測方式、封裝
技術挑戰與瓶頸以及材料組成對於力學可靠度進行深入的討論與演講解說。此會議較專注於由於實際
製程與相關封裝元件問題，由於此會議於韓國舉行，因此參與者多為亞洲國家之研究人員與學者居多。
本次會議對於未來電子元件與因應之先進封裝技術對於元件微小化與三維立體化，提出相當大的助益
之見解與參考價值。 
 
二、 邀請演講報告過程與心得： 
本次本人受邀之演講題目為 Investigation of Thermal Stress on Interfacial Cracking Behavior in Advanced 
Electronic Packaging，安排為會議第二天一早第二場(Session Ⅲ : Challenges and Processes for Advanced 
Package Solution)的第一篇發表，參與的各界先進學者與廠商相當踴躍。而發表場地為韓國首爾的
KINTEX, Ilsan, Korea 的 R206 會議室，與會者多為全球當地重要學者與封裝重要公司研究人員，如來
自韓國 Samsung、日月光韓國分公司、日本 J-Devices 公司、美國喬治亞理工、IBM 等公司等；演講題
目之摘要列於下方： 
As the technology of the semiconductor process continues its scale miniaturization and improvement of 
electronic device performances, next-generation IC chips with Cu/low-k stacked structures and adopting the 
fabrication of a damascene module are being developed to meet the urgent requirements of reducing high RC 
delay so as to obtain high-speed signal communication. However, due to the thermal stress resulted from the 
CTE mismatch as well as a mismatch of elastic modulus existing in dissimilar materials, there is a high 
probability that doing so may contribute to interfacial cracks occurring or propagating within the multi-level 
interconnection system, composed of the copper interconnections and low-k dielectric materials, as a result of 
poor adhesion and intrinsically lower fracture toughness of the low-k materials when temperature loads are 
applied during the wafer level and the packaging level stages. Therefore, this fracturing problem has become 
one of the critical issues for thermo-mechanical device reliability, which needs to be resolved urgently. 
Accordingly, a reliable crack prediction methodology based on finite element calculation is developed to 
investigate the stress-induced impacts on the thermo-mechanical reliability of electronic interconnects during 
the whole cracking growth process of the bi-material interface. In this research, detailed interpretations for the 
opportunity of interfacial delamination and the determination of crack advance estimated by J-integral method 
and modified VCCT in FEA are systematically presented. Moreover, by means of a four-point bending test 
FEA model and a comparison with the relative experimental data of multi low-k dielectric films, the 
methodology of finding a stable cracking energy for dissimilar materials has been validated to be reliable. 
Based on the above, the development of design/prediction methodologies for the cracking/delamination issues 
regarding the thermo-mechanical reliability of advanced electronic devices presented in this investigation can 
be demonstrated and widely applied in various electronic device structures. 
 
Keywords: Reliability, Interfacial fracture, J-integral, VCCT, FEA, Energy release rate 
 
 32
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：102 年 3 月 18 日 
 
 
一、 會議簡介 
    這次所參加的國際研討會 MAM2013 conference (Material for Advanced Metalization)為在比利時的
魯汶(Belgium, Leuven)舉辦，此會議主要所著重的研究主題為連接導線間交互作用與矽材料的性質。而
今年的研討會也定義新的研究挑戰項目，諸如 Advanced Memories; Materials for Energy Harvesting; and 
Organic-inorgaic Hybrid Thin Films. 而此研討會的主要目的在於提供一個可公開跨領域討論理論基礎
與應用科學的平台。所涵蓋的研究人員包含國際上材料科學家、製程整合工程師與學生。而為了要迎
合持續不斷於元件尺寸縮減與多工性的需求，在材料方案的選擇上更是面臨前所未有的挑戰。因此，
新的與延伸的材料研究是被需要的，期以允許晶片於 14 奈米和 10 奈米技術上的微小化，以及發展新
式奈米尺寸級的電子元件。 
 
研討會其內容包含下列幾項重要主題，分別如下： 
1. Advanced Memory 
2. Advanced Characterization 
3. Reliability and Modeling 
4. 3D Integration 
5. Silicides 
6. Gate stack and Contacts 
7. Nano & Novel devices 
8. Advanced Metals &Dielectrics. 
 
 
二、 口頭論文報告過程與心得： 
去年度此研討會為在法國舉辦時，本計畫的研究成果所發表的二篇論文，現皆已經被 SCI 期刊
Microelectronic Engineering 所接受（Reject 比率約為 50%）。而今年該研討會所接受的研討會論文約 100
計畫編號 NSC-100－2218－E－033－002－MY2 
計畫名稱 使用矽穿孔技術接合三維晶片之封裝結構翹曲行為研究與可靠度分析 
出國人員
姓名 李昌駿 
服務機構
及職稱 中原大學機械系助理教授 
會議時間 102 年 3 月 10 日至102 年 3 月 13 日 會議地點 比利時(Belgium) 
會議名稱 MAM2013 conference (Material for Advanced Metalization) 
發表論文
題目 
Reliability Enhancements of Chip-on-Chip Package with Layout Designs of 
Microbumps 
 34
  
   
  
上六圖為 MAM 2013 會議現場 
 
三、 結論 
本次會議為世界重要的半導體後段製程技術之研討會會議，其中一場重要的 Session 為矽穿孔與三
維晶片堆疊封裝技術(3D-Integration)，這是因為三維晶片(3D ICs )封裝確實為目前一高整合與微小化的
解決方案：因此，三維整合技術遂成為新的熱門研究目標。而利用矽穿孔接合式技術則提供垂直導通
之方式用以接合晶片堆疊，以達到三維晶片間的電子訊號互連。此一技術能夠以更低的成本有效提高
系統的整合度與效能。然，對應之三維晶片封裝結構於接合組裝過程往往產生嚴重之可靠度問題，這
為目前封裝研究上十分重要的研究課題。本次會議所提出之多篇論文對於未來電子元件材料與因應之
先進封裝技術對於元件微小化，提出相當大的助益之見解與參考價值。 
在此特別感謝國科會提供經費上的補助，使得我能順利參與 MAM2013 國際研討會的機會，
MAM2013 國際研討會是每年一次在歐洲各國輪流舉辦的重要國際研討會，明年此會議將在德國舉辦。
參與此研討會除可以增進本人對於下一世代封裝專業技術與目前熱門之半導體技術相關知識外，亦可
與國外目前從事相關研究之科學家與先進學者進行的交流溝通。 
     
四、 攜回資料內容 
12. 會議論文發表程序冊 
13. MAM2013 會議論文電子檔 
14. 當地資料與參展科技廠商資訊 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 36
load is applied to the structure. These failure nodes can be understood by predicting the contour and 
estimating the magnitude of flexible stress in each film of OLED devices. Therefore, this research proposes an 
analytical solution which is based on thin film mechanics for flexible multi-stacked films. Moreover, 
nonlinear finite element analysis (FEA), which is based on the assumption of large deformation, and related 
experimental tests are utilized to verify the reliability of the mechanical model. Under different radii of 
bending curvatures, the accurate position of the neutral plane along the direction of total thickness, stiffness, 
and related stress distribution of each film is calculated by using the derived formula; the result is better than 
that predicted by FEA. The Young’s modulus and thickness of each film are the major factors that affect the 
stress magnitude and flexibility of the OLED device packaging structure. To explain the behaviors induced by 
the material properties of films, a parametric analysis of a cover plate within an OLED packaging structure is 
conducted. The results can be applied to the development of flexible electronics with a long lifespan and 
mechanical reliability. 
 
發表時間約為十八分鐘，發表結束後的問題討論，有學者提出封裝結構內之堆疊薄膜在遭受彎矩負載
時，層間之間的脫層失效破壞模式使否有在我們所提出的力學模擬（與解析解）中考慮？我的回答是，
基本上，該學者專家所提到的為此封裝結構所發現的一個重要失效模式，且該模式仍有很大的機率發
生，當薄膜層間之黏著強度不佳時，該情況將會更加嚴重。然而，在我們的力學分析的解析解，亦或
有限單元分析模擬，則是假設堆疊薄膜層間為完美的黏著強度，因此脫層失效行為，並未在此分析中
考慮，而考慮的重點在於薄膜其在各種彎矩負載下之彎矩應力為何，是否有機會超過其降伏強度之值。
此外，與會人員亦發問第二個問題為，堆疊薄膜在彎矩負載下，其於厚度方向上之應變變化之假設為
線性？您覺得這個假設是否合理？我的回答是，依據我們這篇中所提供的堆疊薄膜的總厚度約為 100
微米，而外加彎矩負載之曲率半徑以最為嚴苛為例，大約為 1mm，兩者相較，至少仍有十倍之大的差
距，所以線性彎矩應變之假設仍屬合理。此外，在會議進行中間休息時間，亦有相關國內重要研究學
者到場，諸如成功大學航太系胡潛濱教授、台灣科技大學機械系趙振綱教授、台灣大學應力所吳光鐘
教授、台灣大學機械系吳文方教授、清大動機系江國寧教授、蕭德瑛教授、葉銘泉副校長、葉孟考教
授、陳榮順教授、蔡宏營教授，逢甲大學鄭仙志教授，中正大學機械系系主任劉德騏教授，彼此也互
相討論與交換研究心得，討論了破壞力學與基礎疲勞試驗。，彼此交流討論一下微電子元件失效分析
與可靠度上之的模擬技術與可能方向。而本人亦感到此會議有增進參與者對此研究的興趣相互討論，
進而對於彼此的研究增加更多的刺激與新的思考。 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
國科會國外研討會心得報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               撰寫人：吳智勝 
               單位名稱：中原大學機械工程學系 
               出國地點：法國(GRENOBLE) 
               出國日期：2012/03/08 ~ 2012/03/18 
 
 
 
 
二、 口頭報告過程與心得： 
本次投稿論文為 Reliability estimation and failure mode prediction 
for 3D chip stacking package with the application of wafer-level 
underfill被邀請以口頭報告形式呈現，為開幕場第三篇發表，當時參
與的各界先進學者眾多，發表場地為法國 Grenoble 的一所研究中心
(MINATEC)中，大多為法國當地專家人士，發表時間為二十分鐘，當
時被詢問一個關於尺寸效應問題。在會議中，亦有相關研究學者到
場，彼此也互相討論與交換研究心得，亦有增進參與者對此研究的興
趣相互討論，進而對於彼此的研究增加更多的刺激與新的思考。 
 
上圖為MAM2012會議現場 
 
三、 海報張貼過程與心得： 
    除了有發表一篇論文之外，尚有一篇 Impact of high density 
TSVs on the assembly of 3D-ICs packaging為海報張貼，海報張貼為
三月十二日五點半至七點半，時間約兩小時，本次有 43篇論文張貼，
四、 結論 
    在此特別感謝國科會提供經費上的補助，使得我能順利參與
MAM2012國際研討會的機會，MAM2012國際研討會是多次在比利
時與法國舉辦的國際研討會，參與研討會可以增進學生對於 3D IC領
域的相關知識外亦可與國外先進專家的交流溝通，同時增加台灣在國
際上能見度與展示台灣在電子領域的貢獻。 
    在本次會議中，與清大動機系博士班學長一起同行，而我是第一
次出國的人，在學長身上學習到許多出國應該注意的事項，讓我對於
獨自出國不再是害怕的；在會議中亦遇到崑山科大教授與國家奈米實
驗室工程師，也在會議中做些交流，對於彼此研究也有初步了解，相
信回國後，可以就研究的需求，就近互相切磋。 
    此次能夠參與國際研討會，感謝指導老師李昌駿博士的提拔，讓
我有機會出國見識與發表，對於我的國際觀有大幅度的提升；也在研
討會中見識到本領域先進專家的研究，唯有不斷進步，在研究上有更
多的突破，才有機會再次踏上國際的舞台，再次把台灣推展出去，讓
世界看見台灣。 
 五、 攜回資料內容 
1. 會議論文摘要集 
2. 隨身碟一個 
3. 當地資料與參展科技廠商資訊 
  
 
O1-02 10:30 – 10:50  RELIABILITY ESTIMATION AND FAILURE MODE PREDICTION FOR 3D 
CHIP STACKING PACKAGE WITH THE APPLICATION OF WAFER-LEVEL 
UNDERFILL 
 C.C. Lee1a), T.F. Yang2, C.S. Wu1, K.S. Kao2, R.C. Cheng2 and T.H. 
Chen2 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University 
200, Chungpei Rd., Chungli City, Taoyuan County, Taiwan 32023, R.O.C. 
2Assembly and Reliability Technology Department, Electronics and 
Optoelectronics Research Laboratories, Industrial Technology Research 
Institute, 195 Sec. 4, Chung-Hsing Road, Chutung, Hsinchu 31040, 
Taiwan, ROC 
 
  10:50 - 11:10 COFFEE BREAK 
 
 SESSION 2  MORE THAN MOORE 
CHAIRS: S. LOMBARDO, V. IVANOVA 
 
I2-01 11:10 – 11:40 INVITED TALK 
 INTEGRATION OF METALLIC NANOELECTRONIC’S FUNCTIONS IN 
CMOS BACK END OF LINE 
A. Souifi*, D. Drouin et al 
Laboratoire Nanotechnologies & Nanosystèmes - UMI 3463 
CNRS / Université de Sherbrooke / INSA Lyon / Ecole Centrale Lyon / CPE 
Lyon / UJF Grenoble 
3IT- Université de Sherbrooke, 2500 Boulevard Université, J1K 2R1 
Sherbrooke, Canada. 
   
I2-02 11:40 – 12:10 INVITED TALK 
  INTEGRATION OF ENERGY HARVESTING CIRCUITS: CHALLENGES  
 AND OPPORTUNITIES 
Enrico Sangiorgi a,* , Aldo Romani a, Michele Dini a, Marco 
Tartagni a 
a
 Advanced Research Center on Electronic Systems, University of 
Bologna, Via Venezia 52, Cesena, 47521, Italy 
 
O2-01 12:10 – 12:30 PHOTOSENSITIZATION OF ZNO NANOWIRE ARRAYS WITH 
SEMICONDUCTING QUANTUM DOTS 
Sylvia Sancheza, Raul Salazara, Claude Lévy-Clémentb, Valentina 
Ivanovaa 
aCEA-Grenoble, LETI-Minatec Campus, 
17 Rue des Martyrs, 38054 Grenoble, France 
bCNRS, Institut de Chimie et des Matériaux de Paris-Est, 
2-8 Rue Henri Dunant, 94320 Thiais, France 
 
 
  12:30 - 14:00 LUNCH 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
O4-01 16:20 – 16:40 FORMATION OF NIGE THROUGH GERMANIUM OXIDE ON GE(100)  
  SUBSTRATE 
F. Nemouchia, V. Carrona, J. L. Lábárb, L. Vandrouxa, Y. Morandc, 
T. Morelc, J. P. Barnesa 
a
 CEA-LETI/Minatec, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054 Grenoble Cedex 9, France  
b MFA, H-1121 Budapest, Konkoly-Thege M. ut 29-33, Hungary 
c
 ST-Microelectronics, 850 rue Jean Monnet, F-38926 Crolles Cedex, France 
 
O4-02 16:40 – 17:00 EFFECTS OF TEMPERATURE AND OHMIC MATERIALS ON LOW  
  CONTACT RESISTANCE OF HIGH PERFORMANCE DRAM 
Eun-Ok Leea, Woong-Hee Sohn, Hyun-Jung Lee, Jong-Uk Kim, 
Hee-Sook Park, Man-Sug Kang, Seok-Woo Nam, Ho-Kyo Kang 
and Chil-Hee Chung 
Process Development 1P/J, Semiconductor R&D Division, Samsung 
Electronics Co., Ltd. 
San#16, Banwol-Dong, Hwasung-City, Gyeonggi-Do, 445-701, Korea 
 
O4-03 17:00 – 17:20 PT REDISTRIBUTION IN N-MOS TRANSISTORS DURING SALICIDE 
   PROCESS 
F. Panciera a,b,*, K. Hoummadab, M. Gregoirea, M. Juhela, N. 
Bicaisa and D. Mangelinckb 
a
 STMicroelectronics, 850, rue Jean Monnet, 38926, Crolles cedex, France 
b
 IM2NP, CNRS-Université Paul Cézanne, Case 142, 13397 Marseille 
Cedex 20, France 
 
  17:20 - 17:30 BREAK 
 
 
 POSTER SESSION : 17:30 – 19:30 
  
 
O5-02 10:30 – 10:50 MODELING AND SIMULATION OF THE INTERPLAY BETWEEN  
  CONTACT METALLIZATION AND STRESS LINER TECHNOLOGIES 
   FOR STRAINED SILICON 
J. Schustera,*, S. E. Schulza,b, T. Herrmannc, R. Richterc  
a
 Fraunhofer Institute for Electronic Nano Systems, Technologie-Campus 
3, D-09126 Chemnitz, Germany 
 bCenter for Microtechnologies, Chemnitz University of Technology, D-
09107 Chemnitz, Germany 
c
 GLOBALFOUNDRIES Dresden Module One LLC & Co. KG, Wilschdorfer 
Landstraße 101, D-01109 Dresden, Germany 
 
O5-03 10:50 – 11:10 EVALUATION OF PLASMA PARAMETERS ON PEALD  
  DEPOSITED TACN 
Fabien Piallat a, b, c, Virginie Beugin b, Remy Gassilloud b, Philippe 
Michallon b, Laurent Dussault c, Bernard Pelissier c, Timo 
Asikainen d, Jan Willem Maes d, François Martin b, Pierre Morin a, 
Christophe Vallée c 
a: STMicroelectronics, 850 rue Jean Monnet, 38920 Crolles, France 
b: CEA, LETI, Campus Minatec, F-38054 Grenoble, France 
c: LTM-CNRS, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054 Grenoble, France 
d: ASM Europe B.V. Versterkerstraat 8, 1322 AP Almere, The Netherlands 
 
  11:10 - 11:30 COFFEE BREAK 
 
 SESSION 4   SILICIDE (2) 
CHAIRS: C. DETAVERNIER, F. NEMOUCHI 
 
I4-02 11:30 – 12:00 INVITED TALK 
ADVANCED CONTACT TECHNOLOGY: FROM MATERIAL PROPERTIES 
TO DEVICE APPLICATIONS  
 Z. Zhang 
IBM Watson Research Center, US  
 
O4-04 12:00 – 12:20 ELEMENTAL REDISTRIBUTION OF PT AND PD IN NICKEL SILICIDES: 
  A COMPARATIVE STUDY 
A. Schrauwena, J. Demeulemeestera, A. Kumara,b, B. De Schutterc, 
W. Vandervorsta,b, C. Detavernierc, C.M. Comried, K. Temsta and 
A. Vantommea 
a
 Instituut voor Kern- en Stralingsfysica, K.U. Leuven, Celestijnenlaan 200 
D, 3001 Leuven, Belgium 
b
 IMEC, Kapeldreef, 3001 Leuven, Belgium 
c
 Department of Solid State Sciences, Ghent University, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium 
d
 Department of Physics, University of Cape Town, 7700 Rondebosch, 
South Africa 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 SESSION 7  MEMORIES  
CHAIRS: S. MAITREJEAN, B. CHENEVIER 
 
I7-01 15:30 – 16:00 INVITED TALK 
  MATERIALS AND PROCESSES FOR NON-VOLATILE RESISTIVE 
  MEMORIES 
C. VALLEEa, P. GONONa, C. MANNEQUINa, L.  DUSSAULTa, E. 
GOURVESTb,  H. GRAMPEIXc, V. JOUSSEAUMEc, D. JOURDEc, 
MICHALLONc, S. LHOSTISb, S. MAITREJEANc 
a LTM - CNRS/UJF - CEA/LETI, 17 rue des martyrs 38054 Grenoble 
cedex9 France 
b
 STMicroelectronics 850 rue Jean Monnet, 38926 Crolles Cedex, France 
c CEA/LETI-Minatec, 17 rue des martyrs 38054 Grenoble cedex 9 
FRANCE 
 
O7-01 16:00 – 16:20 INFLUENCE OF PROCESS PARAMETERS AND THERMAL 
  TREATMENTS ON THE PROPERTIES OF HIGH κ OXIDES GROWN  
  USING ATOMIC LAYER DEPOSITION FOR RESISTIVE RAM  
  APPLICATIONS 
A. Salaüna, H. Grampeixa, V. Beugina, C. Mannequinb, P. Gononb, 
C. Valléeb, E. Martineza, F. Pierrea, J. Buckleya, V. Jousseaumea,* 
a
 CEA LETI, Minatec Campus, 17 rue des Martyrs, Grenoble, 38400, 
France 
b
 CNRS LTM, Minatec Campus, 17 rue des Martyrs, Grenoble, 38400, 
France 
 
O7-02 16:20 – 16:40 SEMICONDUCTOR-METAL TRANSITION IN THIN VO2 FILMS  
  DEPOSITED BY OZONE BASED ATOMIC LAYER DEPOSITION 
Geert Rampelberga,*, Marc Schaekersb, Koen Martensb, Qi Xiea, 
Davy Deduytschea, Bob De Schuttera, Nicolas Blascoc, Jorge 
Kittlb, Christophe Detaverniera 
a
 Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281 (S1), 9000 Ghent, Belgium 
b
 IMEC, Kapeldreef 75, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium 
c
 Air Liquide Electronics, Tour Tupka C – 14 rue Hoche, 92039, Paris La 
Défense, France 
 
  16:40 - 17:00 COFFEE BREAK 
 
 SESSION 8  METAL 
CHAIRS: S. HAUKKA, E. BLANQUET 
 
I8-01 17:00 – 17:30 INVITED TALK 
  CVD FORMATION OF AN ULTRA-THIN DIFFUSION BARRIER FOR 
  FUTURE TECHNOLOGY NODES  
 Junichi Koike*, Nguyen Mai Phuong, Vijay Kumar Dixit, Koji 
Neishi, and Yuji Sutou 
Tohoku University, Dept. of Materials Science, 6-6-11 Aoba, Aramaki, 
Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8579, Japan 
 
 
 
 
 
 WEDNESDAY MARCH 14, 2012 
 
 SESSION 1  3D INTEGRATION (2) 
CHAIRS: S. SCHULZ, J. GUILLAN 
 
I1-02 9:00 – 9:30 INVITED TALK 
  THERMODYNAMICS AND KINETICS OF INTERFACIAL REACTIONS IN 
  MICROELECTRONIC PACKAGING 
F. Hodaj 
SIMAP, CNRS (UMR-5622), Grenoble Institute of Technology, Grenoble-
INP/UJF, 1130 rue de la piscine, Domaine Universitaire, BP 75, F-38402 
Saint Martin d’Hères - France 
 
O1-03 9:30 – 9:50 ELECTRO-MECHANICAL STUDIES OF MICRO TUBE INSERTION INTO 
  AL-CU PADS FOR 10µM PITCH INTERCONNECTION TECHNOLOGY 
  AND 3D APPLICATIONS 
B. Goubault de Brugièrea,*, F. Mariona, M. Fendlera, V. 
Mandrillona, A. Hazotteb, M. Volperta, H. Ribota 
aCEA – LETI, MINATEC 17, rue des Martyrs – 38054 Grenoble Cedex 9, 
France 
bLETAM –CNRS/UPVM/ENIM, Ile du Saulcy, Metz, France 
 
O1-04 9:50 – 10:10 ADVANCED WAFER THINNING TECHNOLOGY AND FEASIBILITY 
  TEST FOR 3D INTEGRATION 
Y. S. Kima,b, N. Maedaa, H. Kitadaa, K. Fujimotoa, S. Kodamaa, A. 
Kawaib, K. Araib,  
K. Suzukic, T. Nakamurad, and T. Ohbaa 
a
 School of Engineering, The University of Tokyo, 2-11-16 Yayoi, Bunkyo-
ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan  
b DISCO CORPORATION, 13-11 Omori-Kita 2-chome, Ota-ku, Tokyo 143-
8580, Japan 
c 
 Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., 250-1, Wakashiba, Kashiwa-shi, Chiba 
277-0871,Japan 
d Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd.,10-1 Morinosato-Wakamiya, Atsugi, Kanagawa 
243-0197, Japan 
 
O1-05 10:10 – 10:30 ATOMIC LAYER DEPOSITION FOR HIGH ASPECT RATIO THROUGH 
  SILICON VIAS 
Martin Knauta,*, Marcel Junigea, Henry Wojcika, Christoph 
Hossbacha, Volker Neumanna,  
André Hiessa, Thomas Henkea, Matthias Alberta, Johann W. 
Barthaa 
a
 Technische Universität Dresden, Institute of Semiconductors and Microsystems, 
01062 Dresden, Germany 
 
  10:30 - 10:50 COFFEE BREAK 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Dear Dr.           , 
 
Your abstract entitled  “  Impact of high density TSVs on the assembly 
of 3D ICs packaging“ was reviewed for selection by the Scientific 
Programme Committee and Local Organizing Committee members. The 
scientific level of the whole set of the 74 submitted abstracts was 
very high. Among them, 30 have been selected for an oral presentation. 
 
We are pleased to inform you that your abstract has been accepted for 
a poster presentation (format A0) in the session “3D”. 
 
All information to submit your article are (or will be soon) available 
on the conference web site : 
http://www.mam-conference.org 
 
We are looking forward to seeing you on next March at the MAM 2012. 
Please, follow the instructions on the web site to register to the 
conference and, for your hotel accommodation, get in touch as soon as 
possible with the one where you wish to reserve. Details on 
possibilities of accommodation are available on our web site. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
On behalf of the local organizing committee 
process was developed as an alternative approach [15]. After 
wafer-dicing, chips with WLUF are assembled via thermal 
compression bonding. The bonding force is the critical 
fabrication parameter that affects the warpage of the overall 
package, subsequently affecting the μ-bump reliability. For 
this reason, the primary goal of this investigation is to perform 
a nonlinear FEA to simulate the warpage of chip stacking 
packages resulting from the overall assembly process, as well 
as the thermomechanical behavior of the critical μ-bumps 
during the temperature cycling test (-55 °C to 125 °C). After 
the experimental data are validated, the layout effect of the μ-
bump arrays during the entire WLUF bonding process is 
further investigated using current analytical methodologies via 
a process-orientation simulation technique. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Scheme and specifications of μ-bumps. 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 3. Wafer-level underfill (WLUF) lamination results: (a) 
well-laminated; and (b) voids induced during the fabrication 
process. 
 
II. EXPERIMENTS ON 3D STACKING CHIPS  
a. Test vehicles 
In this research, a thin-chip-on-chip test vehicle 
consisting of top and bottom chips was used for the bonding 
process and reliability evaluations. The top chip is 5.1 mm × 
5.1 mm in size, whereas the bottom chip (substrate chip) is 16 
mm × 16 mm. The layouts of both top chip side and the 
substrate side used for the thermal cycling tests are shown in 
Fig. 1. The cross-sectional view, which was cut along the 
Sn2.5Ag lead-free solder/Ni/Cu μ-bump array with a 30 μm 
bump pitch for the construction of the chip-on-chip test 
vehicle, is shown in Fig. 2. The UBM chosen for this study 
consisted of Cu and Ni layers 5 and 3.5 µm thick, respectively. 
The electroplating method and the subsequent reflow process 
were adopted to fabricate the Sn2.5Ag solder material. The 
schematic diagram of the detailed μ-bump structure is shown 
in Fig. 2. Using the metal wirings on the bottom chip, the 
electrical characteristics of the bonded daisy-chain chip during 
the material bonding process and reliability tests were 
exhaustively evaluated. 
 
b. WLUF experimental results 
The thinning procedure for an 8” bumped wafer was first 
implemented. The wafer was then laminated using three 
different WLUF thicknesses (15, 18, and 20 μm), with the 
lamination pressure maintained at 0.5 MPa. The entire 
lamination process was conducted under a vacuum pressure of 
1 kPa using a vacuum hot press machine. The heating parts 
consisted of a press head with an elastomer finish on top and a 
stage with a hard metal surface at the bottom. Optimization of 
the lamination parameters was performed by fine-tuning the 
time and temperature settings, and a head temperature of 45 
°C, a stage temperature 60 °C, and a press time of 10 sec were 
determined as the optimal conditions. Good results for the 18 
and 20 μm thick WLUF were achieved [Fig. 3(a)]. However, 
some voids near the bump areas were observed when a thinner 
WLUF (15 μm) was used [Fig. 3(b)]. These voids can 
eventually cause poor interfacial adhesion between the wafer 
surface and the WLUF. Fig. 4 shows the cross-sectional image 
of the 20 μm thick WLUF that was laminated on the bumped 
area. The lamination thickness and filler distribution were 
uniform. Fig. 5 shows the optical microscope image after the 
blade dicing of WLUF on a wafer. The laminated WLUF was 
tack free and showed no adhering stains from the wafer used 
in the dicing. It also exhibited excellent dicing behavior 
without delamination, dust, and cracking. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Cross-sectional image of WLUF laminated on a chip. 
 
 
Fig. 5. Optical microscope image after WLUF dicing on a 
wafer. 
 
Fig. 8. Warpage contour of the packaging structure in the 
vertical direction during the overall bonding process (chip 
thickness = 50 μm, bonding force = 2 kg). 
 
 
Fig. 9. Accumulative failure rate of μ-bumps during the 
thermal cycling tests at the 55 °C to 125 °C temperature 
range. 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 10. Comparison of failure modes: (a) SEM image 
showing the crack close to the SnAg solder; and (b) simulated 
results. 
 
 
IV. VALIDATION OF STRESS SIMULATIONS 
The warpage (vertical direction) contour of an entire 
packaging structure under a 2 kg bonding force load via press-
oriented simulation is shown in Fig. 8. A 1.84 μm warpage at 
the chip edge is predicted for the  50 μm thick top chip. An 
examination of the experiments yields a warp measurement of 
approximately 2 μm. Hence, the results of the simulated 
methodology are in excellent agreement with the experimental 
data and are thus highly reliable for the subsequent 
thermomechanical reliability prediction of the critical μ-bump. 
The results of the accumulative failure rate for the μ-bumps 
during a temperature cycling test are shown in Fig. 9. By 
defining the failure criteria as a change of 20% in the 
resistance value of the daisy chain, the testing data indicate 
that the characteristic lifetime of μ-bumps will exceed 1250 
thermal cycles. On the other hand, the simulated results reveal 
that the maximum plastic strain occurs at the lead-free solder 
region adjacent to the IMC layer, which is considered a brittle 
material [Fig. 10(b)]. That is, the propagation of a crack in the 
aforementioned location and its subsequent advance and rapid 
penetration through the IMC layer are highly possible. The 
predicted results show good agreement with the examined 
failure mode of the experimental specimen in Fig. 10(a). 
 
V. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
Several important design parameters are separately 
analyzed and interpreted to enhance the fabrication 
compatibility and reliability of WLUF. 
 
a. Effect of chip thickness 
On the basis of the current simulation methodology, the 
effect of the top chip thickness on the outermost μ-bump is 
analyzed under the thermal cycling test load (Fig. 11). The 
strain increases from 2.86% to 3.1% as the top chip thickness 
significantly increases from 50 μm to 720 μm because of the 
high rigidity of the thicker chips, which increases the 
difficulty in releasing the thermal stress/strain through a 
geometric deformation. In other words, μ-bump reliability can 
be improved by using thinner chips as well as WLUF 
protection against external stresses/strains. 
 
 
Fig. 11. Effect of top chip thickness on the critical μ-bump.
 
 
b. Effect of the bonding force 
The warpage of the packaging structure is induced by 
external thermal-compressive forces during the WLUF 
process. Warpage is extremely serious for the thin chips used 
in 3D stacking packages and affects their mechanical 
reliability. Hence, investigating these warpage effects is 
urgently needed. Fig. 12 shows that under three different 
bonding forces (1.0, 2.0, and 4.0 kg), the non-μ-bumped 
region underneath the top chip of the thinner silicon chips, 
which is far from the packaging center, undergo greater 
warpage. Without the structural support of the μ-bump arrays, 
the thin chip at this location becomes more flexible as a 
 Fig. 15. Comparison of the von Mise strains in the μ-bumps 
when the layout of μ-bumps with a 50 μm top chip thickness 
is considered (bonding force = 2.0 kg). 
 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
To investigate the effect of replacing conventional 
underfill methods with the new WLUF processes, this research 
presents the stress estimation of the assembly and 
thermomechanical reliabilities of μ-bumps in advanced 
packages with 3D stacking chips. A nonlinear FEA, combined 
with a process-oriented simulation technique, is proposed and 
then validated using the experimental data. The analytical 
results indicate that significant warpage is induced during the 
WLUF thermal-compressive procedures, especially 
deterioration when top chips with thickness below 100 μm are 
used. This behavior can be explained by the lack of μ-bump 
arrays with structural sustainability in the gaps filled with 
WLUF between the silicon chips located near the peripheral 
regions of the top chip. Hence, the arrangement of the μ-
bumps in thin stacked chips is highly important. The 
magnitudes of the strain on the μ-bumps at the innermost and 
outermost locations are similar and are more likely to occur as 
sufficient WLUF-rich areas become available in the interior of 
a packaging structure. This result indicates that the critical 
location of the μ-bumps must be carefully examined in 
accordance with the μ-bump layout design. On the other hand, 
the present predictions indicate that the major source of μ-
bump failure is the delamination in the region adjacent to the 
bonding interface between the IMC layer and the SnAg lead-
free solders. The simulated results are in good agreement with 
those derived from the images of the experimental specimens. 
A similar failure mode is revealed during the reliability test for 
the presented vehicle via repeated temperature cycles (> 1250) 
under a thermal load between 55 °C and 125 °C. These 
analytical results can serve as design guidelines for the 
enhancement of the mechanical reliability of 3D chip stacking 
packages using WLUF. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors would like to thank the National Center for 
High-performance Computing (NCHC) for supporting this 
research, as well as the National Science Council of Taiwan, 
R.O.C. for providing financial support under contract number 
NSC-100-2218-E-033-002-MY2. Likewise, the fabricating 
support of the specimens from EORL/ITRI is deeply 
appreciated by the authors. 
 
VII. REFERENCES 
[1] M. Koyanagi, T Fukushima, T. Tanaka, Proceedings of the 
IEEE 97 (1) (2009) 49–60. 
[2] K.N. Tu, Microelectronics Reliability, 51 (2011) 517–523. 
[3] L.J. Ladani, Microelectronic Engineering, 87 (2) (2010) 
208–215 
[4] C.J. Wu, M.C. Hsieh, K.N. Chiang, Microelectronic 
Engineering 87 (3) (2010) 505–509. 
[5] N. Miyakawa, E. Hashimoto, T. Maebashi, N. Nakamura, 
Y. Sacho, S. Nakayama, S. Toyoda, ACM Journal on 
Emerging Technologies in Computing Systems 4 (4) (2008) 
1–15. 
[6] C.S. Selvanayagam, J.H. Lau, X. Zhang, S.K.W. Seah, K. 
Vaidyanathan, T.C. Chai, IEEE Transactions on Advanced 
Packaging 32 (4) (2009) 720–728. 
[7] J.T. Huang, P.S. Chao, H.J. Hsu, S.H. Shih, Material 
Science in Semiconductor Processing, 10 (4–5) (2007) 
133–142. 
[8] R. Johannessen, M.M.V. Taklo, M.F. Sunding, IEEE 
Transactions on Advanced Packaging 32 (3) (2009) 683–
694. 
[9] S.P.S. Lim, V.S. Rao, Y.H. Hnin, W.L. Ching, V. Kripesh, 
C. Lee, J. Lau, J. Milla, A. Fenner, IEEE Transactions on 
Components and Packaging Technologies, 33 (4) (2010) 
747–753. 
[10] Y. Ohara, A. Noriki, K. Sakuma, K.W. Lee, M. 
Murugesan, J. Bea, F. Yamada, T. Fukushima, T. Tanaka, 
M. Koyanagi, IEEE International Conference on 3D 
System Integration, 2009. 
[11] H.H. Hsu, S.Y. Huang, T.C. Chang, A.T. Wu, Applied 
Physics Letters, 99 (25) (2011) 251913. 
[12] C.P. Wong, S.H. Shi, G. Jefferson, IEEE Transactions on 
Components, Packaging, and Manufacturing Technology–
Part A, 21 (3) (1998) 450–458. 
[13] S. Kawamoto, O. Suzuki, Y. Abe, in: Proceeding of 56th 
IEEE Electronic Components and Technology Conference, 
San Diego, CA, USA, May 2006. 
[14] S. Lee, M.J. Yim, R.N. Master, C.P. Wong, D.F. Baldwin, 
IEEE Transactions on Electronics Packaging 
Manufacturing 31 (4) (2008) 297–305. 
[15] T.F. Yang, K.S. Kao, R.C. Cheng, J.Y. Chang, C.J. Zhan, 
in: Proceeding of International Conference on Electronics 
Packaging, Hokkaido, Japan, May 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
origin of warpage in 3D-IC packages and resolving this 
phenomenon of utmost importance. However, several 
difficulties can be expected in the developmental stage of 
multi-scale modeling construction for warpage prediction 
simulation. Hence, obtaining effective material properties of a 
mixture composed of Cu metal, dielectrics, and silicon chip, is 
extremely important and the primary purpose of this study. 
The effect of high density TSVs on warpage is attributed to 
the key design factor of TSV pitch. Several effective material 
property models have been systematically developed based on 
the present modeling methodology, which was validated by 
corresponding analytical solutions. 
 
Fig. 2. X-ray image of μ-bumps and TSVs arranged by array-
type in a thin wafer. 
 
II. ASSEMBLY OF 3D ICS WITH TSV 
INTERCONNECTS  
A testing vehicle of 3D-ICs with four stacking chips 
whose process is compatible with current semiconductor 
devices and advanced package equipment was fabricated. The 
detailed configuration is shown in Fig. 1. The electrical signals 
of each chip are transmitted through TSVs and μ-bumps. Cu is 
used as the interconnect trace and filled conductor TSVs. The 
μ-bump is mainly composed of Sn lead-free solder and Cu 
bump. The adoption of filling into underfill material is 
necessary to enhance the thermo-mechanical reliability of μ-
bump joints. The arrangement of TSVs and μ-bumps arrays in 
each thin stacking silicon chip is shown in Fig. 2, whereas the 
cross-sections of stacked chips prior to bonding procedures are 
displayed in Fig. 3. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) 
results show that the silicon chip is approximately 50 μm thick 
and the diameter of the TSV is approximately 9 μm. The 
designed pitch of TSV is 40 μm. A daisy chain design with an 
approximately 4.5 μm thick Cu metal is patterned at the 
bottom chip in the stacking module of 3D-ICs (Fig. 3(b)). An 
electroless nickel/immersion gold (ENIG) under-bump 
metallization (UBM) pad was fabricated at the opening 
portion of the TSV at the opposite surface that is expected to 
be assembled with other chips. Sn solder and ENIG UBM pad 
with thicknesses of approximately 6 and 5 μm, respectively, 
are formed similarly at the base of the middle chip that will be 
bonded with the bottom chip. The construction of the 
proposed 3D-ICs is completed after the thermal-compression 
bonding process (Fig. 4). However, several unsuccessful 
connections of μ-bumps exist at this point probably because of 
the induction of a substantial warpage in thin silicon chips by 
the CTE mismatch effect of high density TSVs arranged with 
array-type regions. This condition is disadvantageous in 
maintaining assembly reliability of 3D-IC packages. Hence, 
the induced warpage should be investigated for the reliability 
analysis of stacking chips with large scale sizes, particularly 
for simulated works based on computational mechanics.  
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 3. Dimensional measurement of test vehicle for TSVs and 
μ-bumps through SEM images: (a) middle wafer with μ-bump 
structure and (b) scheme of bottom wafer. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Construction of 3D-IC test vehicle for four 50 μm 
wafer assembled by TSVs and μ-bumps. 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 5. Two different arrangements of TSVs: (a) regular type 
(type_01) and (b) densest layout (type_02). 
 
III. EQUIVALENT MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF 
TSV MODULES 
The introduction of effective material properties into 
FEA is a feasible approach to resolve the obstruction of high-
performance simulation with several orders in scale mismatch 
within an analytic system, particularly for the 3D-IC 
packaging structure. Two types of layout, namely regular 
(type_01) and the densest (type_02), are considered for a 
silicon interposer with TSV arrangement (Fig. 5). The detailed 
analytical procedures are explained as follows. 
simulation-based methodology. The adopted material 
properties are given in Table 2. The lead-free solder and 
underfill are assumed to be linear-elastic in this analysis. The 
effective Young’s modulus and CTE in the out-of-plane 
direction (z) through different volumes of fractions of solder 
are consistent with the simulated FEA results and calculations 
from the analytical solution (Figs. 7 and 8). However, there is 
a small divergence when the Young’s modulus and CTE in the 
in-plane direction are examined. The difference could be 
attributed to more mechanical assumptions considered for the 
analytical solution. This discrepancy is acceptable because the 
responses of their mechanical performances are actually 
approached. Therefore, the simulated results for the mixture of 
underfill and lead-free solder show good agreement with the 
analytical solutions. The simulated results indicate that the 
proposed simulation approach is reliable in attaining the 
effective moduli of TSV in stress estimation of 3D-IC 
packaging.   
 
 
Fig. 7. Effect of volume fraction of effective Young’s 
modulus of lead-free solder array and underfill. 
 
 
Fig. 8. Effect of volume fraction of effective CTE of lead-
free solder joint array and underfill. 
 
Table 2 Material properties for the effective modulus 
calculations of the lead-free solders and underfill mixture. 
Material Young’s Modulus (GPa) Poisson’s Ratio CTE (ppm/oC)
Sn-Ag3.5 47.71 0.4 30 
Underfill 9.91 0.35 27.8 
 
 
Fig. 9. Effective Young’s modulus of a chip with TSVs 
versus TSV pitch. 
 
 
Fig. 10. Effect of volume fraction of Cu-filled TSV on 
effective Young’s modulus of a silicon chip. 
 
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The equivalent moduli of silicon interposer with Cu-filled 
TSVs for two arrangements under a change in TSV pitch are 
discussed as follows. 
 
a. Effective Young’s modulus 
An increase in the TSV pitch indicates that the volume 
percentage of Cu fill decreases when the entire dimension of 
silicon interposer is fixed. A more Si-like material property 
(Esi=130GPa) is acquired when the TSV pitch is prolonged 
(Fig. 9). A 0.3% scatter of effective Young’s modulus 
compared with bulk silicon is predicted as the TSV pitch 
exceeds 30 μm. The effective modulus is significantly reduced 
when the TSV pitch is smaller than 8 μm. This phenomenon is 
easier to observe given that the dielectric material with low 
modulus is included because of the impact of volume fraction 
resulting from the thin dielectric film. The thin dielectric film 
is surrounded with Cu fill in the TSV structure and exhibits a 
remarkable influence when a finer pitch of TSV, such as 8 μm, 
is utilized. The effective Young’s modulus is lower than that 
of pure copper, indicating that the dielectric contributes 
significantly in high-density TSVs. By contrast, an increase in 
the Cu fill up to 0.6 times of the volume fraction (TSV pitch = 
8 μm) generates a Cu-like material property (Ecu=122GPa) for 
NSC-100-2218-E-033-002-MY2. Likewise, the fabricating 
support of the specimens from EORL/ITRI is deeply 
appreciated by the authors. 
 
VI. REFERENCES 
[1] M. Motoyoshi, Proceedings of the IEEE 97 (1) (2009) 43–
48. 
[2] M. Koyanagi, Proceedings of the IEEE 97 (1) (2009) 49–
59. 
[3] C.S. Selvanayagam, J.H. Lau, X. Zhang, S.K.W. Seah, K. 
Vaidyanathan, T.C. Chai, IEEE Transactions on Advanced 
Packaging 32 (4) (2009) 720–728. 
[4] K.H. Lu, S.K. Ryu, Q. Zhao, X.Zhang, J. Im, R. Huang, 
P.S. Ho, in: Proceeding of 60th IEEE Electronic 
Components and Technology Conference, Las Vegas, NV, 
USA, June 2010. 
[5] C.J. Wu, M.C. Hsieh, K.N. Chiang, Microelectronic 
Engineering 87 (3) (2010) 505–509. 
[6] J.L. Ladani, Microelectronic Engineering 87 (2) (2010) 
208–215. 
[7] C. Zhang, L. Li, IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices 
58 (2) (2011) 279–287. 
[8] S.K. Ryu, K.H. Lu, X. Zhang, J.H. Im, P.S. Ho, R. Huang, 
IEEE Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability 11 
(1) (2011) 35–43.  
[9] F.X. Che, H.Y. Li, X. Zhang, S. Gao, K.H. Teo, in: 
Proceeding of 61st IEEE Electronic Components and 
Technology Conference, Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA, 
May 2011. 
[10] S. Park, H.C. Lee, B. Sammakia, K. Raghunathan, IEEE 
Transactions on Components and Packaging Technologies 
30 (2) (2007) 294–301.  
[11] R.A. Schaper, Journal of Composite Materials 2 (1968) 
380–404. 
[12] R. Hill, Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids, 
11 (1963) 357–372.  
[13] M.F. Thorpe, I. Jasiuk, Proceeding of the Royal Society 
London A 438 (1994) 531–544. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
一、 會議簡介 
    本次會議是在美國聖地亞哥舉辦的 Itherm2012 (13th IEEE 
Intersociety Conference on Thermal and Thermomechanical Phenomena 
in Electronic Systems)國際研討會。本次會議的時間為 2012年 5月 30
日至 6月 1日。此國際研討會的主要論文，為由科學基礎研究與工程
角度出發，討論電子元件、封裝，以及系統等級上的熱、熱與力學耦
合，以及相關元件失效現象與可靠度分析等主題，其內容包含下列幾
項重要主題，分別如下： 
1. Thermal Management  
2. Mechanics 
3. Emerging Technologies: Thermal, Thermomechanical and/or related 
underlying multidisciplinary issues  
4. Panel Discussions 
 
    本次會議共收錄 183篇口頭報告原創論文，主要分為三天來進行
口頭報告，由於電子元件的尺寸日益縮小，所以衍生之相關電子封裝
結構與新接點材料的散熱與力學可靠度問題亦顯得日益重要。因此，
本次會議重點研究領域之討論在於針對先進無鉛銲錫之微接點與三
維晶片封裝接合之結構設計、疲勞破壞模式，以及材料組成對於力學
可靠度與疲勞壽命評估進行深入的討論與研究報告。此會議較專注於
由於熱與溫度的效應所引發之相關封裝元件問題，由於此會議於美國
舉行，因此參與者多為美洲國家之研究人員與學者居多。本次會議對
於未來電子封裝技術對於元件微小化之因應，相關的研究論文提出相
Wafer-level underfill film被凸塊穿破而完成接點接合步驟。至於，熱
壓力量的部分，由於，實驗的進行只選擇幾種下壓力量進行相關電阻
值的量測，並不能直接提供何種下壓力量比較合適的參考資訊。因
此，這個熱壓力量的製程參數可以在往後的製程參數最佳化的進行，
予以系統性的討論與說明。在會議中，亦有相關研究學者到場，彼此
也互相討論與交換研究心得，亦有增進參與者對此研究的興趣相互討
論，進而對於彼此的研究增加更多的刺激與新的思考。 
 
上圖為 ITherm2012會議現場 
 
 
上圖為本人於論文口頭報告的過程 
ITherm 2012 
Sheraton  San  Diego  Hotel  and  Marina 
May 30 ‐ June 1, 2012 
 
Tuesday, May 29, 2012 (9:30 AM – 7:00 PM) 
Marble Registration 
Desk 
Conference Registration and Collection of Badges 
   
Wednesday, May 30, 2012 
   
  Wednesday, May 30, 2012: 7:00 AM – 8:30 AM 
Bel Aire Foyer  Registration, Coffee, Snacks   
   
  Wednesday, May 30, 2012: 8:30 AM – 10:00 AM 
Bel Aire Ballroom 
South 
Opening Remarks  : Welcome by General Chair  (Dr.  Sandeep  Tonapi)  and Program Chair 
(Prof. Mehdi Asheghi) 
Bel Aire Ballroom 
South 
Plenary  Talk:  Dr.  David Morse,  Senior  Vice  President  and  Director  Corporate  Research, 
Corning 
   
  Wednesday, May 30, 2012: 10:00 AM – 10:30 AM 
Coronado Foyer  Coffee Break 
   
  Wednesday, May 30, 2012: 10:30 AM – 12:00 PM 
Point Loma A  Short  Course  1:  Fracture  and  Fatigue  in  Microelectronic  Packaging,  Prof.  Jianmin  Qu, 
Northwestern University  
   
Coronado A 
ET1: Graphene and 
Carbon 
Nanotechnologies 
(Chair: Tim Fisher, Co‐
Chair: Li Shi) 
2820: Thermal Conductivity of Graphene and Graphene Oxide Nanoplatelets,   Nayandeep 
K. Mahanta, Alexis R. Abramson,  Case Western Reserve University 
2922:   Review of  Joule heating  in  graphene nano‐ribbon,   Yanbiao Chu, Cemal Basaran,  
University at Buffalo 
2992:  Effect  of  Copper  Surface  Roughness  on  Thermal  Conductance  of  Copper/Carbon 
Nanotube  Array  Interface,    Rong‐Shiuan  Chu,  Yang  Zhao,  Costas  P.  Grigoropoulos, 
University of California, Berkeley 
3002:  Nanoscale  Conformable  Coatings  for  Enhanced  Thermal  Conduction  of  Carbon 
Nanotube Films,   Amy M. Marconnet1, Munekazu Motoyama1, Michael T. Barako1, Yuan 
Gao1, Scott Pozder2, Burt Fowler2, Koneru Ramakrishna2, Glenn Mortland2, Mehdi Asheghi1, 
and Kenneth E. Goodson1, 1 Stanford University,  2PrivaTran 
3044: Modeling  Joule Heating  in Carbon Nanotubes with Monte Carlo Simulation,   Tarek 
Ragab1,2, and Cemal Basaran2*,    1 University of Tabuk, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,  2   State 
University of New York at Buffalo 
   
Point Loma B 
TT1: Data Center 
Cooling and Energy 
Efficiency I – (Chair: 
Rongliang Zhou, Co‐
Chair: Guoping Xu) 
2785:   Effect of Rack Server Population on Temperatures  in Data Centers,   Rajat Ghosh, 
Vikneshan Sundaralingam, Yogendra Joshi,  Georgia Institute of Technology 
2805: Estimation of turbulence closure coefficients for data centers using machine learning 
algorithms,  S. Yarlanki, B. Rajendran and H. Hamann, IBM Research 
2829: A comparative study of raised‐floor and hard‐floor configurations in air‐cooled data 
centres,  N Srinarayana, B Fakhim, M Behnia, S W Armfield, The University of Sydney 
2835:  Evaluation  of  a  Vortex Model  of  Buoyancy‐Driven  Recirculation  in  Potential  Flow 
Analysis  of  Data  Center  Performance,  Michael  M.  Toulouse1,  David  J.  Lettieri1,  Van  P. 
ADVANCE PROGRAM
Vandentop, Johanna M. Swan, Intel Corp 
3062:  Lateral  Motion  of  Bubbles  from  Surfaces  with  Mini  Ratchet  Topography 
Modifications  During  Pool  Boiling‐  Experiments  and  Preliminary  Model  ,  Florian 
Kapsenberg1,  Naveenan  Thiagarajan2,  Vinod  Narayanan1,  and  Sushil  Bhavnani2,  1Oregon 
State University, 2Auburn University 
   
Coronado A 
MT1:  Fracture and 
Damage Mechanics 
(Chair: Satish 
Chaparala; Co‐Chair: 
Bernhard Wunderle) 
2860: Advanced Mixed‐Mode Bending Test: A Rapid, Inexpensive and Accurate Method for 
Fracture‐Mechanical  Interface Characterisation, B. Wunderle1,2,3, M. Schulz1,4,  J. Keller4,  I. 
Maus5,2, H.  Pape5, B. Michel2,  1Chemnitz University  of  Technology,  2Fraunhofer  Institute 
Electronic  Nanosystems,  3Fraunhofer  Institute  Reliability  and  Microintegration, 
4AngewandteMicro‐Messtechnik GmbH,  
5Infineon Technologies AG   
2885:  Delamination  Modeling  for  Power  Packages  by  the  Cohesive  Zone  Approach,  R. 
Dudek, R. Doering  , R. Pufall*, W. Kanert*, B. Seiler**, S. Rzepka, B. Michel, Fraunhofer 
ENAS, * Infineon Technologies, Munich, ** CWM GmbH, Chemnitz 
2787:  Investigation of Thermal Fatigue Life Scatter of  IVH  in PWB, Kunihiro Takenaka and 
Qiang Yu, Yokohama National University 
2913: Thermal Stress Analysis and Failure Mechanisms for Through Silicon Via Array, Chi‐
Wei Kuo, Hung‐Yin Tsai, National Tsing Hua University 
3021: Maximum  Entropy  Fracture Model  and  its Use  for  Predicting  Cyclic  Hysteresis  in 
Solder  Alloys,  J.P  Tucker,  D.K.  Chan.  G.  Subbarayan,  and  C.A.  Handwerker,  Purdue 
University   
   
Coronado B 
TT3: Chip Level 
Thermal Management  
(Chair: Tapan Desai, 
Co‐Chair: Kaushik 
Mysore) 
2837: Impact of heatsink attach loading on FCBGA package thermal performance, Sasanka 
L. Kanuparthi, Jesse E. Galloway and Scott McCain, Amkor Technology 
2877:  Analysis  of  HEMT  multilayered  structures  using  a  2D  finite  volume  model, 
AmirHossein Aminfar, Elah Bozorg Grayeli, Mehdi Asheghi, Kenneth E. Goodson, Stanford 
University 
2940:  Interconnects and  substrates  for  thermal considerations, Andreas Larsson1, Astrid‐
Sofie B. Vardøy1,  Frøydis Oldervoll1, Olav  Storstrøm1, Michal Mielnik1,  Eric Dalton2,  Kafil 
Mahmood2, Deokki Min3, Maaike M. V. Taklo1,  
 1SINTEF  ICT  Instrumentation  and  sensor  systems,    2Tyndall National  Institute,  3Vestfold 
University College 
2955:  The  Affect  of  Device‐Level  Modeling  on  System‐Level  Thermal  Predictions,  Jens 
Weyant, Daniel Reist, Scott Garner, Advanced Cooling Technologies, Inc. 
2977: In‐plane thermal conductivity measurement on nanoscale conductive materials with 
on‐substrate  device  configuration,  Takashi  Kodama,  Woosung  Park,  Amy  Marconnet, 
Jaehoo Lee, Mehdi Asheghi, Kenneth E. Goodson, Stanford University 
   
  Wednesday, May 30, 2012: 3:00 PM –3:30 PM 
Coronado Foyer  Coffee Break 
   
  Wednesday, May 30, 2012: 3:30 PM –5:00 PM 
Point Loma A 
PD2: Challenges on 
Thermal Management 
for Military/Harsh 
Environment 
Electronics (Chair: Dr. 
Peter de Bock, Co‐
Chair: Adam 
Schofield) 
Panel Moderator: Mark Spector, Program Officer, Ships and Engineering Systems Division, 
Office of Naval Research 
Panelists: 
1. Stefano Lassini, Chief Engineer Mission Systems, GE Aviation Systems 
2. Ross Wilcoxon, Principal Mechanical Engineer, Advanced Technology Center, Rockwell 
Collins  
3. Nick Jankowski, Energy and Power Division, Army Research Laboratory 
4. Brent  Taft,  Acting  Thermal  Systems  Lead,  Space  Vehicles  Directorate,  Air  Force 
Research Laboratory 
   
Thursday, May 31, 2012 
   
  Thursday, May 31, 2012: 7:00 AM ‐ 8:00 AM 
Bel Aire Ballroom 
North 
Speakers Breakfast: Only for speakers and session chairs presenting today 
   
  Thursday, May 31, 2012: 8:00 AM –9:30 AM 
Point Loma A  SC2: Recent Advances in Passive Two‐Phase Cooling ‐ Pushing the Limits with Engineered Surfaces, Prof. Suresh Garimella and Justin Weibel, Purdue University 
   
Coronado A 
MT3:  Microscale and 
Nanoscale Mechanics 
(Chair: Cemal 
Basaran; Co Chair: 
Rainer Dudek) 
2800:  Evaluation  of  Cu/Ni/SnAg  Microbump  Bonding  Processes  for  Thin‐chip‐on‐chip 
Package Using a Wafer‐level Underfill  film,   Chang‐Chun  Lee*1, Tsung‐Fu Yang2, Kuo‐Shu 
Kao3, Ren‐Chin Cheng3, Chau‐Jie Zhan3, Tai‐Hong Chen3,  1 Chung Yuan Christian University,  
2 Topco Scientific Co., LTD.,  3 Industrial Technology Research Institute 
2891: Improving the Thermomechanical Behavior of Lead Free Solder Joints by Controlling 
the  Microstructure,  B.  Arfaei1,  L.  Wentlent1,  S.  Joshi1,  A.  Alazzam1,  T.  Tashtoush1,  M. 
Halaweh1,  S.Chivukula1,  L.  Yin2,  M.  Meilunas2,  E.  Cotts1  and  P.  Borgesen1,  1Binghamton 
University, 2Universal Instruments Corporations, 
2903: A Velocity Averaging Method  for Bridging Molecular Dynamics with Finite Element 
Analysis, Yongchang Lee and Cemal Basaran, State University of New York at Buffalo 
2894:  Damage  of  SAC405  Solder  Joint  under  PDC,  Wei  Yao  and  Cemal  Basaran,    State 
University of New York at Buffalo 
2895: Skin Effect and Material Degradation of Lead‐free Solder  Joint under AC,   Wei Yao 
and Cemal Basaran,  State University of New York at Buffalo 
   
Point Loma B 
ET4: Thermal 
Characterization of 
Compound 
Semiconductors 
(Chair: Victor Chiriac, 
Co‐Chair:  Ioan 
Sauciuc) 
2792:  Transient  Thermoelectric  Self‐Cooling of  a Germanium Hot  Spot, Michael Manno, 
Peng Wang, Avram Bar‐Cohen,  University of Maryland, College Park 
2801: Novel Junction Level Cooling in Pulsed GaN Devices,  Tapan G. Desai1, Daniel Piedra2, 
Richard Bonner1, Tomas Palacios2,    1Advanced Cooling Technologies,  Inc.,  2Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology 
2878:  Ballistic  Heat  Transport  and  Associated  Frequency  dependence  of  Thermal 
Conductivity  in Semiconductor Alloys,   Bjorn Vermeersch1;2, Gilles Pernot1, Yee‐Rui Koh1, 
Paul  Abumov1  and  Ali  Shakouri1;2,    1University  of  California  at  Santa  Cruz,  2Purdue 
University 
2902:  Thermal  Characterization  of GaN‐on‐Diamond  Substrates  for HEMT Applications  ,  
Jungwan  Cho1,  Zijian  Li1,  Elah  Bozorg‐Grayeli1,  Takashi  Kodama1,  Daniel  Francis2,  Felix 
Ejeckam2, Firooz Faili2, Mehdi Asheghi1, and Kenneth E. Goodson1,  1Stanford University,  2 
Group4 Labs, Inc., 
3014:  Thermal  Characterization  and  Modeling  of  a  Gallium  Arsenide  Power  Amplifier 
MMIC, Manish K. Tiwari1, Severin Zimmermann1, Chander S. Sharma1, Fabio Alfieri1, Adrian 
Renfer1,  Thomas Brunschwiler2,  Ingmar Meijer2, Bruno Michel2, Dimos Poulikakos1,  1ETH 
Zurich, 2IBM Zurich Research Laboratory 
3034:  Estimation  of  Operational  Temperature  and  Stress  in  AlGaN/GaN  HEMTs  using 
Raman Spectroscopy ,  Sukwon Choi and Samuel Graham,  Georgia institute of Technology 
   
Coronado B 
TT5: Heat Sinks and 
Heat Spreaders 
(Chair: Sung Ki Kim, 
Co‐Chair: Siddharth 
2815: Thermal Performance Evaluation of Various Heat Sinks for Air Cooling,  Lian‐Tuu Yeh,  
Huawei Technologies 
2842: Performance of an Air Cooled Heat Sink with Microscale Dimples under Transitional 
Flow  Conditions,    Krishna  Kota,  Ludovic  Burton,  Yogendra  Joshi,    Georgia  Institute  of 
Technology 
Cullen  Bash,  Sergey  Blagodurov,  Yuan  Chen,  Tom  Christian, Daniel Gmach,  Chris Hyser, 
Niru  Kumari,  Zhenhua  Liu, Manish Marwah, Alan McReynolds,  Chandrakant  Patel, Amip 
Shah, Zhikui Wang, Rongliang Zhou, Hewlett‐Packard Laboratories 
2970: Impact of Operating Conditions on a Chiller‐less Data Center Test Facility with Liquid 
Cooled Servers, Milnes P. David, Madhusudan K. Iyengar, Pritish Parida, Robert E. Simons, 
Mark Schultz, Michael Gaynes, Roger Schmidt, Timothy Chainer, IBM Corp. 
   
Coronado B 
TT7: 3D Stacked Die 
Cooling  (Chair: Ankur 
Jain, Co‐Chair: Youmin 
Yu) 
2825:  Extended  tensor  description  to  design  non‐uniform  heat‐removal  in  interlayer 
cooled chip  stacks, T. Brunschwiler1, S. Paredes1, U. Drechsler1, B. Michel1, B. Wunderle2 
and  H.  Reichl3,  1IBM  Research,  2  Fraunhofer  Institute  for  Electronic  Nano  Systems,  
3Technische Universität Berlin 
2833: Fast Thermal Simulations of Vertically Integrated Circuits (3D ICs) Including Thermal 
Vias, Amirkoushyar Ziabari, Ali Shakouri, University of California at Santa Cruz 
2898:  Two‐Phase  Flow Boiling  in  a  Single  Layer of  Future High‐Performance  3D  Stacked 
Computer  Chips,    Sylwia  Szczukiewicz,  Navid  Borhani,  John  Richard  Thome,    École 
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne 
3045: An efficient  lid design for cooling stacked flip‐chip 3D packages,   Kamal Sikka, Jamil 
Wakil, Hilton Toy and Hsichang Liu, IBM Corp. 
   
  Thursday, May 31, 2012: 12:45 AM ‐ 2:15 PM 
Bel Aire Ballroom  Lunch, Best Paper Awards and ITherm Committee Recognition 
   
  Thursday, May 31, 2012: 2:15 AM ‐ 3:45 PM 
Point Loma A 
PD3: Next Generation 
Data Centers—
Opportunities and 
Challenges (Chair: 
Prof. Michael Ohadi, 
Co‐Chair: Dr. 
Veerendra Mulay) 
Panelists: 
1. Michael K Patterson, Senior Power & Thermal Architect, Intel Corporation 
2. Don Beaty, Principal Consultant and Founder, DLB Associates 
3. Paul Artman, Principal Engineer, Dell 
4. Robert Sullivan, Independent Consultant, Uptime Institute 
5. Yogendra Joshi, Professor, Georgia Institute of Technology 
   
Coronado A 
MT5:  Interconnect 
Reliability I (Chair: 
Bernhard Wunderle; 
Co Chair: Reza 
Ghaffarian) 
2841: Component Level Reliability on Different Dimensions of Lead Free Wafer Level Chip 
Scale  Packages  Subjected  to  Extreme  Temperatures,  Sivasubramanian 
Thirugnanasambandam1,  Jiawei  Zhang1, Dr.  John  Evans1, Dr.  Fei  Xie2, Matt  Perry2, Brian 
Lewis2, Dr. Daniel Baldwin2,  Kent  Stahn3, Michel Roy3,  1Auburn University,  2Engent,  Inc., 
3IDT,Inc 
2900:  Reliability  of  Column/Board  CCGA  Attachment,    Reza  Ghaffarian,    Jet  Propulsion 
Laboratory, California Institute of Technology 
3054: The Effects of Underfill on the Thermal Fatigue Reliability of Solder Joints  in Newly 
Developed Flip Chip on Module,  Jae B. Kwak, Soonwan Chung, Samsung Electronics Co., 
Ltd. 
2929:  Leading  Indicators  for  Prognostic  Health  Management  of  Electrical  Connectors 
Subjected  to  Random  Vibration,    Pradeep  Lall  1,  Peter  Sakalaukus1,  Ryan  Lowe1,  Kai 
Goebel2, 1 Auburn University, 2 NASA Ames Research Center 
2958:  Leading  Indicator  Based  Assessment  of  Operational  Readiness  in  Electronics 
Subjected  to Multiple Environments,   Pradeep Lall1, Mahendra Harsha1, Kai Goebel2,  Jim 
Jones3,  Jeff  Suhling1,  1Auburn  University,  2NASA  Ames  Research  Center,  3Oracle 
Corporation 
2858:  Reliable  Evaluation  Method  for  Solder  Joints  in  Vehicle  Electronics  Devices 
Considering  the Actual Use Conditions,    Satoru OKUYAMA, Qiang YU, Takahiro AKUTSU,  
Yokohama National University 
Roberts, Jeffrey C. Suhling, Pradeep Lall,  Auburn University 
   
Point Loma B 
TT10: Data Center 
Cooling and Energy 
Efficiency IV (Chair: 
Hendrik Hamann, Co‐
Chair: Niru Kumari) 
2821:  Analysis  of  exergy  destruction  in  data  centres,  Babak  Fakhim,  Nagarathinam 
Srinarayana, Masud Behnia & Steve W. Armfield, The University of Sydney 
2856: Thermal management systems for data centers with liquid cooling technique of CPU,  
Mayumi Ouchi1, Yoshiyuki Abe1, Masato Fukagaya2, Haruhiko Ohta3, Yasuhisa Shinmoto3, 
Masahide  Sato4  and  Ken‐ichi  Iimura4,  1AIST,    2SOHKi  Co.  Ltd.,  3Kyushu  University, 
4Utsunomiya University 
2866:  Cooling  Capacity  and  Cost  Metrics  for  Energy  Efficient  Workload  Placement  in 
Datacenters, Niru Kumari, Zhikui Wang, Cullen Bash, Rocky Shih, Tahir Cader and Carlos 
Felix, Hewlett‐Packard Co. 
2888:  From  Chip  to  Cooling  Tower  Data  Center  Modeling:  Validation  of  a  Multi‐Scale 
Energy  Management  Model,  Thomas  J.  Breen,  Ed  J.  Walsh,  Jeff  Punch  (University  of 
Limerick),  Amip  J.  Shah,  Niru  Kumari,  Cullen  E.  Bash,  Geoff  Lyon,  (Hewlett‐Packard 
Laboratories) 
2983:  Novel  Energy  Recovery  Systems  for  the  Efficient  Cooling  of  Data  Centers  using 
Absorption  Chillers  and  Renewable  Energy  Resources,  Victor  Chiriac1,  Florea  Chiriac2, 
1Qualcomm Inc., 2Technical University of Civil Engineering 
2960:  Investigating a  relationship among CPU and  system  temperatures,  thermal power, 
and  CPU  tasking  levels,  Anna  Haywood,  Jon  Sherbeck,  Patrick  Phelan,  Georgios 
Varsamopoulos, Sandeep K. S. Gupta, Arizona State University 
   
Coronado B 
TT11: Phase Change 
and Thermosiphon 
(Chair: Unni 
Vadakkan, Co‐Chair: 
Amir Shooshtari) 
2834:  Scaling  the  Performance  of  an  Air‐Cooled  Loop  Heat  Pipe  with  the  Addition  of 
Modular Condensers, H. Arthur Kariya, Wayne L. Staats, Daniel F. Hanks, Teresa B. Peters, 
Martin Cleary, John G. Brisson, Evelyn N. Wang, Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
2874:  Evaluation  of  Methods  to  Fully  Saturate  Carbon  Foam  with  Paraffin  Wax  Phase 
Change Material for Energy Storage,  Ronald Warzoha, Omar Sanusi, Brian McManus, Amy 
S. Fleischer,  Villanova University 
2875: Development and Testing of Subambient melt  temperature nano‐enhanced Phase 
change materials, Ronald Warzohaa, Xudong Tangb, Amy S. Fleischera, aVillanova University,  
bAdvanced Cooling Technologies, Inc. 
2896:  Experimental  Analysis  of  Phase  Change  Material  Slurry  through  Porous  Channel,  
Navid O. Ghaziani, Ryan Perkinson, Fatemeh Hassanipour,  University of Texas at Dallas 
3029: Dynamic  Thermal Management of High Heat  Flux Devices Using  Embedded  Solid‐
Liquid Phase Change Materials and Solid State Coolers, Craig E. Green, Andrei G. Fedorov, 
Yogendra K. Joshi, Georgia Institute of Technology 
   
Friday, June 1, 2012 
   
  Friday, June 1, 2012: 7:00 AM ‐ 8:00 AM 
Bel Aire Ballroom 
North 
Speakers Breakfast: Only for speakers and session chairs presenting today 
   
  Friday, June 1, 2012: 8:00 AM ‐ 9:30 AM 
Point Loma A  SC5: Energy Efficient Thermal Management of Data Centers, Prof. Yogendra Joshi, Georgia Institute of Technology 
   
Coronado A 
MT7:  Mechanics of 
Lead‐free Solder 
Materials (Chair: 
2824: Characterization of Sn2.4Ag solder viscoplastic behavior under cyclic  loading, H.‐C. 
Yang, T.‐C. Chiu, National Cheng Kung University 
3022:  Maximum  Entropy  Fracture  Model  and  Fatigue  Fracture  of  Mixed 
SnPb/Sn3.0Ag0.5Cu  Solder  Alloys  ,  J.P  Tucker,  D.K.  Chan.  G.  Subbarayan,  and  C.A. 
  Friday, June 1, 2012: 11:00 AM ‐ 11:15 AM 
  Break: Transfer to rooms for next session 
   
  Friday, June 1, 2012: 11:15 AM ‐ 12:45 PM 
Point Loma A 
PD4: Thermal 
Management and 
Other Packaging 
Issues for 
SmartPhones, Tablets 
and Beyond (Chair: 
Dr. Victor Chiriac, Co‐
Chair: Chris Malone) 
Panelists: 
1. Rahima Mohammed,  Senior Technologist, Intel 
2. Ken Goodson, Professor and Vice‐Chair of ME Dept., Stanford Univ.  
3. Angel Qian Han, Principal Research Engineer, Huawei Technologies 
4. Y. C. Lee, Professor and Director of DARPA iMINT Center, U. of Colorado – Boulder 
5. Mulugeta Berhe, Principal Thermal Engineer, Microsoft 
 
   
Coronado A 
MT8:  Experimental 
Mechanics and High 
Strain‐Rate Mechanics 
(Chair: Luhua Xu; Co‐
Chair: Abhijit 
Dasgupta) 
3011: Characterization of Die Stresses  in Microprocessor Packages Subjected  to Thermal 
Cycling, Jordan Roberts, Safina Hussain, Jeffrey C. Suhling, Richard C. Jaeger, Pradeep Lall, 
Auburn University 
2901: moved to Session TT18 (page 14, below) 
 
3059:  Thermal  strain  measurement  of  a  double  ring  structure  using  digital  image 
correlation method, TAILIE  JIN and NAM  SEO GOO  (Konkuk University), WON‐SEOP KIM 
and JINHO LEE (Opto Mechanical Associate Co.)   
2962: Drop Qualification of MEMS Components in Handheld Electronics at Extremely High 
Accelerations, J. Meng, T. Mattila and A. Dasgupta, (University of Maryland, College Park), 
M. Sillanpaa, R. Jaakkola, G. Luo, K. Andersson (Nokia Corporation) 
2931: High‐G Shock Reliability of Ceramic Area‐Array Packages, Pradeep Lall, Kewal Patel, 
Ryan Lowe  (Auburn University), Mark Strickland, Dave Geist, Randall Montgomery  (NASA 
Marshall Space Flight Center) 
3001: Mechanical  Deformation  Behavior  of  SAC305  at  High  Strain  Rates,  Pradeep  Lall1, 
Sandeep Shantaram1, Jeff Suhling1, David Locker2, 1Auburn University, 2US AMRDEC 
   
Point Loma B 
ET6:  Properties and 
Metrology Techniques 
for Materials and 
Micro Devices (Chair: 
Amy Fleishcer, Co‐
Chair: Shirish Mulay) 
2786:  Measurement  of  Thermal  Conductivity  of  Thin  and  Thick  Films  Based  on 
Micropipette Thermocouple,  R. Shrestha and T. Y. Choi ( University of North Texas),  C. S. 
Han (Korea University),  W. S. Chang (Korea Institute of Machinery and Materials) 
2882: Thermal Conductivity, Anisotropy, and Boundary Resistance of Diamond on Poly‐AlN, 
Elah Bozorg‐Grayeli, Zijian Li, Vincent Gambin, Mehdi Asheghi, and Kenneth E. Goodson, 
Stanford University 
2971:  Novel  High‐Precision  Micropipette  Thermal  Sensor  For  Materials  Thermal 
Characterization,  K. M. Lee, R. Shrestha, D. Ghanta, C. Cross, M. Londoño C, A. Dangol, T. 
Y. Choi,  University of North Texas, Denton 
2991:  Crust  Removal  and  Effective  Modulus  of  Aligned  Multi‐walled  Carbon  Nanotube 
Films,   Yoonjin Won1, Yuan Gao1, Roberto Guzman de Villoria2, Brian L. Wardle2, Thomas 
W.  Kenny1,  Kenneth  E.  Goodson1,  1Stanford  University,  2Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology 
   
Coronado B 
TT13: Two Phase 
Liquid Cooling (Chair: 
Karl Geisler, Co‐Chair: 
Krishna Kota) 
2790:  Electrically  insulated  two‐phase  cooling  system,  Francesco  Agostini1,  Lukasz 
Malinowski2,  1ABB  Switzerland  Ltd.,  Corporate  Research,  2ABB  Sp  z  o.o.,  Corporate 
Research 
2839:  Two‐Phase  Flow  And  Heat  Transfer  In  Pin‐Fin  Enhanced  Micro‐Gaps,  Steven  A. 
Isaacs, Yoon Jo Kim, Andrew J. McNamara, Yogendra Joshi, Yue Zhang, Muhannad S. Bakir, 
Georgia Institute of Technology 
TT15: Thermal 
Interface Materials 
(Chair: Vadim Getkin, 
Co‐Chair: Ridvan 
Sahan) 
Yuan  Gao,  Amy  M.  Marconnet,  Mehdi  Asheghi,  and  Kenneth  E.  Goodson,  Stanford 
University 
2934:  Enhanced  centrifugal  percolating  thermal  underfills  based  on  neck  formation  by 
capillary bridging,    Javier V. Goicochea, Thomas Brunschwiler,  Jonas Zurcher, Heiko Wolf, 
Keiji Matsumoto and Bruno Michel, IBM Corporation 
2951: The Study of  the Polydispersivity Effect on  the Thermal Conductivity of Particulate 
Thermal  Interface  Materials  to  Refine  the  Random  Network  Model,  B.  Dan1,  B.  G. 
Sammakia1, S. Kanuparthi3, G. Subbarayan2, and S. Mallampati1,  1State University of New 
York at Binghamton, 2Purdue University, 3Amkor Technology 
3027: TIM1 Reliability of Polymer Solder, My Nguyen and Jason Brandi, Henkel Electronic 
Materials LLC 
   
  Friday, June 1, 2012: 3:45 PM ‐ 4:15 PM 
Coronado Foyer  Coffee Break 
   
  Friday, June 1, 2012: 4:15 PM ‐ 5:45 PM 
Coronado A 
MT9:  System‐Level 
Reliability Studies 
(Chair: Arun Gowda, 
Co‐Chair: Sandeep 
Tonapi) 
2892: Thermo‐Mechanical analysis of a typical Solar Module: A Parametric study, Shiwani 
Thakur,  Abhijit  Kaisare  and  Sandeep  Tonapi,  Anveshak  Technology  and  Knowledge 
Solutions   
3013: Durability Assessment of Photovoltaic  (PV) Products under Environmental Thermal 
Cycling,  J. Akman, C. Choi,  S. Mukherjee,  J. Meng,  E. Mirbagheri, G. Haddad, D. Das, A. 
Dasgupta, University of Maryland;   R. Gaston, K. Kauffmann,  J. Feng, H.  Liu, N. Ramesh, 
Dow Chemical Company 
2963: Bearing Wear Model for Optical Disk Drive Stepper Motor,   S. E. Mirbagheri, M. Al‐
Bassyiouni and A. Dasgupta, University of Maryland, College Park 
3009:  Comparison  of  Kalman‐Filter  and  Extended  Kalman‐Filter  for  Prognostics  Health 
Management of Electronics, Pradeep Lall1, Junchao Wei1, Kai Goebel2, 1Auburn University, 
2NASA Ames Research Center 
3010: Comparison of Particle filter using SIR algorithm with Self‐adaptive filter using ARMA 
for PHM of Electronics,  Pradeep Lall1, Hao Zhang1, Kai Goebel2, 1Auburn University, 2NASA 
Ames Research Center 
   
Point Loma A 
TT16: Air Cooling and 
System Thermal 
Management (Chair: 
David Go, Co‐Chair: 
Xiaojin Wei, Nikhil 
Lakhar, and Ashish 
Gupta) 
2819: Optimized and microfabricated ionic wind pump array as a next generation solution 
for electronics cooling systems, Andojo Ongkodjojo Ong, Alexis R. Abramson, and Norman 
C. Tien, Case Western Reserve University 
2845:  Driving  Energy  Efficiency  with  Design  Optimization  of  a  Centrifugal  Fan  Housing 
System  for Variable  Frequency Drives,   Garron  K. Morris  and Bruce W. Weiss, Rockwell 
Automation 
2853:  Frictionless Air  Flow Blade  Fan  for Thermal Management of Electronics,    Schacht, 
R.1,3,4, Hausdorf, A.1, Wunderle, B. 2,3,4, Michel, B. 3,4, 1Lausitz University of Applied Sciences, 
Senftenberg,  2Technical  University  Chemnitz,  3Fraunhofer  ENAS,  Chemnitz,  4Joint  Lab 
Berlin, Berlin 
3056:  Cooling  8x100GbE  Switch  Blades  with  High  Power  Optical  Modules,    Adriana 
Romero, Scott Kipp (Brocade), Electronic Cooling Solutions 
2822: Socket Thermal Modeling and Test Correlation with Learning on Board Temperature 
Prediction, Michelle C. Lin, Ted Lee, Intel Corporation 
2838:  Characterizing  Junction‐To‐Case  Thermal  Resistance  and  Its  Impact  on  End‐Use 
Applications,  Jesse E. Galloway, Siddharth Bhopte, Cameron Nelson, Amkor Technology 
   
Point Loma B 
TT17: Jet and Spray 
Cooling (Chair: 
2793:  Enhanced  Heat  Transfer  with  Jet  Impingement  on  Structured‐Porous  Surfaces, 
Zenghui Zhao, Yoav Peles, and Michael K. Jensen, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 
2865: Comparison of synthetic and steady jets for impingement heat transfer over vertical 
 
 
Your paper has been accepted (http://www.econferenceware.com/itherm). 
ITherm 2012 thanks you for your participation. 
At this time, please submit a copyright form and register for the conference. At least one author 
must sign the form  
(separate forms allowable) and at least one author must register to remain in the proceedings. 
 
 
Title: Evaluation of Cu/Ni/SnAg Microbump Bonding Processes for Thin-chip-on-chip Package 
Using a Wafer-level Underfill film 
Abstract ID: 2800 
Author(s): Chang-Chun Lee Chang-Chun Lee, Kuo-Shu Kao, Tsung-Fu Yang, Ren-Chin Cheng, 
Chau-Jie Zhan, Tai-Hong Chen 
Old Status: FINAL PAPER SUBMITTED 
New Status: FINAL PAPER ACCEPTED 
Session Title: First-level Package Mechanics 
Session Chair: Arun Gowda (gowda@research.ge.com) 
Updated By: Satish Chaparala - chaparalsc@corning.com 
 
For more information, please visit the 
ITherm 2012 website at http://www.ithermconference.org/. 
of fine pitch Sn-Cu lead-free bumps [6]. At the moment, 
bonding of device layers can be achieved by means of multi 
chip stacked with microbump interconnection. In case of multi 
chip stacking with fine pitch microbump connection, the 
capillary dispensing presents big limitations in term of cost 
and process ability. A possible approach for reliable multi-
chip stacking could be offered by wafer-level underfill 
(WLUF). Hence, the flip-chip bonding technology with 
WLUF process for ultra-fine pitch and thin chip-on-chip 
package is developed [7]. However, it is found that the co-
planarity and thermo-mechanical behaviors of stacking chips 
after the foregoing process are still a concerned issue and 
needs to be resolved urgently. For this reason, to ensure the 
bonding reliability of multi thin chips with the application of 
WLUF, a non-linear finite element analysis (FEA) with 
process-oriented simulated technique is proposed to assess the 
gap reduction between thin stacked chips. Moreover, the 
testing vehicle is fabricated to validate the calculated accuracy 
of presented simulation methodology. As shown in Fig. 1 is 
the layout with four regions of microbump interconnects. In 
addition, the detailed dimensions of packaging components 
adopted in FEA is cut by A’-A’ line as revealed in Fig. 2. By 
using the reliable procedure of FEA, the effects of several 
parameters are systematically performed in this research. 
 
 
Fig. 2 The scheme of μ-bumps filled with wafer level 
underfill (WLUF). 
 
THEORY OF THERMAL STRESS 
The major driving force of structural failure resulting from 
the thermal stress has been a long-term concern for electronic 
devices. This is especially true because thermal stress plays an 
important role when it comes to the reliability of 3D ICs 
packages. Approximately, the sources of thermal stress could 
be divided into two parts: one is formed by a temperature 
gradient distributed around a single material such as the 
operated condition of a silicon chip; another one, which rises 
greatly at the bonding interface, comes from the assembly of 
materials with different thermal extensions under the thermal 
cycling load or the temperature of the fabrication process. 
Usually, the foregoing phenomenon can be observed during 
tests done on electronic packages and the deposited film 
process of IC chips. In this study, the simulated analysis based 
on the finite element method (FEM) is assumed as a steady 
state because there are no considered cases for heat source and 
heat transfer. Consequently, the thermal strain resulting from a 
temperature difference can be obtained according to the 
following definition: 
2
1
T
t t tT
(T)dT T      (1)
where t indicates the thermal strain, t indicates the CTE, T1 
and T2 indicate the temperatures at different stages, 
respectively, and ΔT indicates the variation in temperature. On 
the other hand, all directions of each coordinated plane are 
supposed to have the same CTE for a homogeneous and 
isotropic material. Therefore, the total strain can be received 
by the following expression [8]: 
T
i t x y zT 0 0 0           (2)
where i  refers to the vector of initial strain, and t  refers to 
the vector of strain with a temperature variation. On the other 
hand, all directions of each coordinated plane have the same 
CTE for a homogeneous and isotropic material. In other 
words, x=y=z=t. Therefore, the total strain vector, 
T
xzyzxyzyxT ][   
can be received by the following finite element calculation: 
  1T tE       (3)
By means of the above-mentioned equation, the vector of 
mechanical stress, 
T
xzyzxyzyx ][   
can now be rewritten as follows: 
  T tE ( )      (4)
where [E] is the material stiffness matrix of the 3D structural 
analysis. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP OF MICROBUMP BONDING 
PROCESS  
Test Vehicles 
In this study, we used thin-chip-on-chip test vehicle, which 
comprised a top chip and a bottom chip, for bonding process 
and reliability evaluations. The size of top chip is 5.1mm × 
5.1mm, while that of bottom chip (substrate chip) is 16mm × 
16mm. The thickness of top chip is 50μm. Both chips have 
more than 3000 microbumps with a bump pitch of 30μm. The 
under bump metallurgy (UBM) selected in this study consisted 
of Cu and Ni layers with a thickness of 5µm and 3.5µm, 
respectively. The Sn2.5Ag solder material is fabricated by 
electroplating method followed by reflow process. Fig. 2 is the 
schematic diagram of microbump structure. The bottom chip 
has metal wirings to evaluate the electrical characteristics of 
bonded daisy chain chip with material bonding process and 
reliability test. 
 
Wafer-level Underfill (WLUF) Process 
After 8” bumped wafer thinning to 50μm thickness, three 
different thicknesses of WLUF 15μm, 18μm, and 20μm, are 
respectively laminated to bumped wafer by a hot press 
that the non-linear iterative solution is convergent, the Full 
Newton-Raphson solver is applied at each sub-step iteration. 
 
  
(a) (b) 
Fig. 7 Half symmetry of FEA model for thin chip on chip 
packaging structure.  
 
Table 1 Material properties adopted in FEA. 
 
Materials Young’s modulus (E) CTE (ppm/℃) Poisson’s Ratio 
Si 169.5 GPa 3 0.28 
Cu 
E = 122 GPa 
Ref. T = 25℃ 
Yield stress = 173 MPa 
ET = 1.2 GPa 
17 0.35 
Passivation 
(Si3N4) 
155 GPa 5 0.28 
Wafer-level 
underfill 6.8GPa@ 25C 53 0.33 
SnAg solder Temperature dependence 22.5 0.4 
IMC 85.6 GPa 
-40℃:16.3 
25℃:17.6 
50℃:18.1 
125℃:19.3 
0.31 
Ni 186 12.5 0.342 
Al 72 GPa 24 0.36 
 
 
Fig. 8 Nonlinear and temperature-dependent stress and 
strain curve of 97.5Sn-2.5Ag lead-free solder. 
Process-Oriented Mechanical Simulation 
Due to the physical items including displacement 
increment, stress and strain are dependent on each step of the 
whole thermo-compression bonding process. Hence, using 
process-oriented simulated technique to assess the conclusive 
waprge of stacked thin chips package is necessary. To meet 
the foregoing requirements, the element birth/death method, 
embedded in the commercial program ANSYS [10] is 
implemented. The basic concept to achieve “element death” is 
to deactivate the targeted elements by multiplying their 
stiffness by a tiny factor. When the above-mentioned elements 
are reactivated, the element properties would return to their 
full original values. The details regarding simulation steps for 
WLUF process sequence are explained as follows: 
(1) Step01: First, the stress free temperature is assumed to be 
250oC. In this stage, the WLUF is in liquidity status. 
Therefore, the WLUF at the moment is at the element-
dead status. In addition, the microbumps are undergone 
the state of compressive stress when the external 
bounding force is applied to the top surface of thin chip. 
(2) Step02: Curing WLUF at 250oC. In the meanwhile, the 
mechanical effect of adhesive is induced by reactivated 
their elements in FEA. It should be note that the impacts 
resulted from bounding force is sustained. 
(3) Step03: Remove bonding force at 250oC. 
(4) Step04: Cooling down to ambient temperature at 25oC. At 
the procedure, the thermal stress/strain is mainly 
generated because of the CTE mismatch among various 
packaging materials. 
Through the above-mentioned process-oriented simulation, the 
predicted waprage is obtained and could be validated by the 
experimental data. In addition, the distribution of stress/ stran 
and related failure location of μ-bump after bonding process is 
another concern in the research. As shown in Fig. 9, it is found 
that the max. von Mise strain occurs on the region close to the 
interface between IMC layer and lead-free SnAg solder at the 
outermost μ-bump of the packaging structure. That is, the 
foregoing location has a possibility to fail during either the 
assembly process or the subsequent reliability tests. Moreover, 
next risky location pointed out by the analytic results is the 
right-side corner of Cu stud connected with the thin chip. The 
occurrence of cracking failure could be expected when a weak 
adhesion between the passivation and Cu stud is introduced 
due to the un-stability of bump fabrications. 
 
 
Fig. 9 Von Mise stress contour of μ-bump at a chip corner 
region (bonding force=2.0 kg). 
 
Validation of Experimental Data 
Several chip thicknesses from 40μm to 720μm are adopted 
to investigate the effect of top chip thickness on the overall 
warpage of thin-chip on chip package during the developed 
WLUF thermo-compression bonding process. As a result of a 
thin silicon chip with a low CTE (3ppm/oC), a gap reduction 
of filled WLUF is supposed to be equal to an increment of 
vertical displacement at the top surface of concerned thin chip. 
 
Fig. 13 Max. von Mise strain close to IMC regions of 
micro-bumps versus various chip thickness. 
 
 
Fig. 14 Warpage magnitude at both the center and edge of 
50μm chip thickness versus a CTE change of wafer level 
underfill as three considered bonding forces are stressed. 
 
 
Fig. 15 Max. von Mise strain close to IMC region within a 
micro-bump joint with a 50μm chip thickness when a CTE 
change of wafer level underfill at different bonding forces 
are considered. 
 
warpage magnitude of curve acquired through various CTE of 
WLUF for the state of 720μm thick in silicon chip is almost 
identical. In other words, as compared with CTE effect of 
WLUF, the bonding force for a thin chip during the assembly 
process with WLUF dominates the warpage magnitude 
significantly. On the other hand, the analysis indicates that the 
strain increases following an elevation in the CTE of WLUF 
as shown in Fig. 15. The max. von Mise strain of 2.65% takes 
place as 53ppm/oC of WLUF’ CTE combined with a 4 kg 
bonding force is considered. 
 
 
Fig. 16 Warpage estimation of a chip-on chip package with 
a 50μm chip thickness when a parametric study regarding 
Young’s modulus of wafer level underfill at different 
bonding forces is performed. 
 
 
Fig. 17 Max. von Mises strain close to IMC region within a 
micro-bump joint with a 50μm chip thickness when a 
parametric study regarding Young’s modulus of wafer 
level underfill at different bonding forces is performed. 
 
Young’s Modulus Effect of Wafer-Level Underfill 
When discussing the Young’s modulus effect of WLUF on 
warpage, an examined range from 1GPa to 60GPa is 
considered in the parametric study. As presented in Fig. 16, 
the predicted results for a thiin chip indicated that for each 
bonding force, there has little change of warpage through the 
inspected Young’s modulus. The reason is considered to that 
the WLUF at the liquidized state could not provide any 
mechanical impact during the step of applying bonding force. 
Consequently, the warpage magnitude is mainly determined 
by the bonding force. The max. waprge at the chip corner is 
about 3μm as a 4kg of bonding force is applied. However, the 
max. von Mises strain of microbump are strongly dependent 
upon the Young’s modulus of WLUF. As exhibited in Fig .17, 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會國外研討會(邀請演講)心得報
告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               撰寫人：李昌駿 
               單位名稱：中原大學機械工程學系 
               出國地點：韓國首爾(Seoul, Korea) 
               出國日期：2012/10/09 ~ 2012/10/12 
 
 
Design 
10. Development of the Latest High-Performance Acid Copper Plating 
Additive for Via-Filling & PTH 
11. Investigation of Thermal Stress on Interfacial Cracking Behavior in 
Advanced Electronic Packaging 
12. Organic Pattern Inspection System 
13. Future Packaging: Life after TSV 
14. 3D LSI Chip Stacking Technology with Wide Bus Chip-to-Chip 
Interconnection 
15. Technical Hurdles and Breakthrough in Reliable 3D IC Analysis 
16. 2.5D & 3D Technology Solutions for Future Human-life 
 
    本次會議為韓國當地重要的封裝研討會會議，與會者除當地學校
研究人員與學生外，亦有多家國內外大廠與會，諸如 Samsung、IBM、
韓國 ASE、日本 J-Devices等，主要分為二天來進行口頭報告，主要
會議重點為對於下一世代之積體電路而言，銅導線 /低介電係數
（Copper/low-k）晶片的製程微縮已無法有效提升晶片效能；為了解
決效能瓶頸，三維晶片(3D ICs )為一高整合與微小化的解決方案：因
此，三次元(3-Dimensional)方向堆疊之元件模組遂成為新的研究目
標。而矽穿孔接合式技術則提供垂直導通之方式用以接合晶片堆疊，
以達到三維晶片間的電子訊號互連。此一技術能夠以更低的成本有效
提高系統的整合度與效能。然，對應之三維晶片封裝結構於接合組裝
過程往往產生嚴重之可靠度問題，製程上尤其在對位與組裝上特別嚴
重；致使相對應之接點接合不易與在錫球接點產生過高的應力負載進
而發生失效，衍生出整體封裝結構之可靠度問題。有鑑於此，本次會
due to the thermal stress resulted from the CTE mismatch as well as a mismatch of elastic modulus 
existing in dissimilar materials, there is a high probability that doing so may contribute to interfacial 
cracks occurring or propagating within the multi-level interconnection system, composed of the copper 
interconnections and low-k dielectric materials, as a result of poor adhesion and intrinsically lower 
fracture toughness of the low-k materials when temperature loads are applied during the wafer level 
and the packaging level stages. Therefore, this fracturing problem has become one of the critical issues 
for thermo-mechanical device reliability, which needs to be resolved urgently. Accordingly, a reliable 
crack prediction methodology based on finite element calculation is developed to investigate the 
stress-induced impacts on the thermo-mechanical reliability of electronic interconnects during the 
whole cracking growth process of the bi-material interface. In this research, detailed interpretations for 
the opportunity of interfacial delamination and the determination of crack advance estimated by 
J-integral method and modified VCCT in FEA are systematically presented. Moreover, by means of a 
four-point bending test FEA model and a comparison with the relative experimental data of multi low-k 
dielectric films, the methodology of finding a stable cracking energy for dissimilar materials has been 
validated to be reliable. Based on the above, the development of design/prediction methodologies for 
the cracking/delamination issues regarding the thermo-mechanical reliability of advanced electronic 
devices presented in this investigation can be demonstrated and widely applied in various electronic 
device structures. 
 
Keywords: Reliability, Interfacial fracture, J-integral, VCCT, FEA, Energy release rate 
 
發表時間約為四十分鐘，發表結束後的問題討論，有學者提出無鉛銲
錫材料的使用，會不會影響溫度熱循環可靠度壽命數？若會，則壽命
數是增加亦或是縮減?。針對此問題，我的答覆為，無鉛銲錫材料通
常為較脆的材料，因此，容易受到一高外界負載的作用下就產生破
裂，因此，在溫度熱循環下所引致之熱應力作用下，其銲點的疲勞壽
命數會較共晶錫鉛材料減少。在會議中，亦有相關研究學者到場，彼
此也互相討論與交換研究心得，如本人認識日本 IBM 公司負責三維
晶片封裝技術開發的研究人員，同時，其亦是為日本明年 ICEP2013
封裝研討會的論文委員，他極力邀請我出席該會議，並發表相關封裝
韓國舉辦的重要國際研討會，參與此研討會除可以增進本人對於下一
世代封裝專業技術與目前熱門之三維晶片封裝領域的相關知識外，亦
可與國外目前從事相關研究之科學家與先進學者進行的交流溝通。同
時，藉此機會，增加台灣在國際上能見度與展示台灣在電子領域的研
究能量與貢獻度。 
     
 
四、 攜回資料內容 
1. 會議論文發表程序冊 
2. ISMP2012會議論文電子檔 
3. 當地資料與參展科技廠商資訊 
Oct. 11 2012
Chang-Chun Lee
Investigation of Thermal Stress on Interfacial 
Cracking Behavior in Advanced Electronic 
Packaging
Chung Yuan Christian University, 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Taiwan
Email: changchunlee@cycu.edu.tw
Phone: 886-3-2654358
Outline
Introduction
Literature Review
Fundamental Theories
Conclusions
Results and Discussions
Motivation of Research
Introduction
Aggregate delay will increase significantly without new materials:
Source: mykrolis.com
Smaller metal cross sections
Reduced wire spacing
Traditional interconnect :
Al metal
Dielectric layers (SiO2)
R
C
Source: F. Lanckmans et al. 2002.
Select copper/low-k stacked structures
Introduction
(Copper/Low-k)
Reduce RC delays
Less crosstalk
Lower power loss
Low-k material properties :
Lower modulus ( E < 10 GPa )
compare~~ SiO2 : E=70 GPa
Lower fracture toughness
Poor adhesion
Multilevel interconnect :
Advantage:
Copper Circuitry
Source: IBM
Source: mykrolis.com
Apply loadings 
Stacked films process
CMP
Packaging impacts
Cu interconnect modules integrating SiO2 (left) 
and SiOC (right) air gaps
Source: L.G. Gosset et al., IITC 2003 pp. 65-67.
Introduction
Source: K. M. Chen et al. Microelectronics Reliability, Vol. 46, pp. 155-163, 2006.
Source: Amkor
Interfacial crack and deformation conditions :
A UMC low-k wafer structure.
A high modulus underfill (>8GPa) must be avoided to keep from transferring too much of the stress 
induced by substrate to die expansion coefficient mismatch to the low-k. A high modulus underfill
results in low-k delamination in temperature loadings.
Low-k crack in Flip Chip packaging.
Underfill choice is the single most important choice in flip chip packaging of low-k devices
A very low modulus underfills (<3 GPa) must also be avoided because they transfer too 
much stress to the flip chip bump which results in bump cracking in temperature cycle.
Chen et al. (2006)
Introduction
Interfacial crack and deformation conditions:
Source: L. L. Mercado et al., IEEE Transactions on Device 
and Materials Reliability, Vol. 3, pp. 111-118, 2003. 
FSG/barrier layer
Source: A. H. Makarem et al., IEEE Transactions on 
Semiconductor Manufacturing, Vol. 18, pp. 69-85, 2005. 
Cu/SOD low-k layer 
PBGA assembly Stress induced from Wafer process
Source: K. Mosig et al.,Microelectronic Engineering, Vol. 64, pp. 11-24, 2002.
Delamination failures
Source:G. Q. Zhang, Philips Centre For 
Industrial Technology
A wire bond on Cu/low-k structures
Source: S. Balakumar et al., Thin Solid Films Vol. 
462-463, pp. 161-167, 2004.
Delamination of Cu/Ta
New method for calculating strain energy rate by using J-integral
Under certain path, it is possible that the value of J-integral with special 
path contour selected would be very close to the value of G.
When b 0, and b/a  0, the path of J integral can be reduced to 
the same expression as the energy release rate. (Suo, 1990)
2. The long side of the rectangular is arranged to parallel the crack 
propagation direction.
For FC package
1. The center of rectangular contour is located at the crack tip
J-integral path:
Literature Review
(Shi, 1999)
B. Xu (2004)
Motivation of Research
Interfacial delamination and cracking of copper/low-k interfaces 
are the major reliability concerns 
A tie-release crack prediction finite element technique 
Finding a stable fractured energy by means of the FEA is extremely 
important for the application of computational interfacial fracture 
mechanics 
A simulation-based analytic approach through the design of 
experiment (DOE) procedure of sensitivity analysis and the 
response surface methodology (RSM) is constructed
Testing vehicle: DL-WLCSP
PBGA with Cu/low-k structures
Fundamental Theories
Dundurs’ elastic mismatch parameters:
A revealing expression: 
1 2
1 2
(E E )
(E E )
  
1 2 2 1
1 2 2 1
1 (1 2 ) (1 2 )
2 (1 ) (1 )
            
i
i 2
EE
(1 )
 
E E
~ Plane strain
~ Plane stress
Discussion:
In plane strain condition,
If =0
It approaches +1 when material 1 is extremely stiff compared to material 2, and 
approaches –1 when material 1 is extremely compliant. 
Both materials are incompressible
If =0, =0
Material properties of both materials are
the same
If >0,  i.e. E1>E2 If <0,  i.e. E1<E2
Simpler crack tip field
X
Y
Material 1
Material 2
1
2
1
1

r
Interfacial fracture mechanics:
Fundamental Theories
Stress field of interfacial crack:
Displacement field of interfacial crack:
1/ 2 i
22 12 1 2i (K iK )(2 r) r
      
i 1/ 2
22 Re[Kr ](2 r)
   
i 1/ 2
12 Im[Kr ](2 r)
   
1 1ln
2 1
      
1 2K K iK 
ir cos( ln r) i sin( ln r)    
Or Complex interface stress intensity factor 
Where
1/ 2
i1 2
2 1 *
8 (K K ) ri r
(1 2i )cosh( ) E 2
            * 1 2
1 1 1 1
E 2 E E
    
Where
The energy release rate for crack advance in the interface: 
2 2
1 2*
(1 )G (K K )
E
 
Interfacial fracture mechanics
Mixed-mode cracks (Mode I : opening mode, Mode II : shear mode ) 
Define loading phase angle:  
Interface fracture criterion
o0 
o90  
Tensile-dominant crack-opening load
Shear-dominant loading
Gc : a function of loading phase angle
More energy is need for crack to 
propagate when the crack tip is under 
shear-dominant loading
1. G > Gc ( or J > Jc ) 
2. Loading phase angle 
Finite element analysis :
The interface is prone to delamination
Fundamental Theories
1 II
I
Ktan ( )
K
  j2 i ij
1
u
J Wdx n ds
x
   
j
ijA
1 i i
u q qJ W dA
x x x
            
Predicting fracture within low-k materials:
For uniform material, the J-integral near the crack tip is path-independent
and its value is equal to the strain energy release rate G.  ( J=G)
For dissimilar material, the J-integral near the crack tip is path-dependent
A new method : J-integral with proper integral contour
(flat rectangular path)
J-integral Method:
J values in a cracked plated subjected to mode I loading can be considered as 
G when crack grows
Fundamental Theories
Structure of the DL-WLCSP
The dimension of DL-WLCSP sample
Die size: 10mm x 10 mm, 0.65 mm thickness
Ball pitch: 1.0 mm x 0.8mm
Stress-compliant layer thickness: 0.075 mm
Die-side pad opening: 0.34 mm
Substrate-side pad opening: 0.33 mm
The FEM model of WLCSP
Cross-sectional viewTop view
Results and Discussions
The FEM model of WLCSP
The 3D ¼ Finite Element Model
Rambus DRAM
Boundary Condition Thermal Loading 
Base on JEDEC standard
Condition G（-40°C～125°C）
The Modeling Element ：~ Solid 45
Results and Discussions
FEM model contains:
30,972 eight-node solid elements
34,006 nodes. 
0.00 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
 218K
 258K
 295K
 348K
 398K
St
re
ss
(M
Pa
)
Strain
Stress/strain curves of 
60Sn/40Pb solder ball
The Material Properties of Analysis 
40Pb/60Sn Solder Ball
Nonlinear & Temperature Dependent
The E of the 2nd stress compliant layer is assumed as 
the multi-linear elasticity
The FEM model of WLCSP
Results and Discussions
The Results of the FEM Analysis
Dummy solder joints
Critical real solder joint
Substrate-side isotropic view
Since the dummy eutectic solder joints are only used for structural support, it must 
be noted that the focus here are the real solder joints in the critical region
The mean cycles to failure is 711 cycles when the value of the incremental 
equivalent plastic strain (2.308 %)
Micrograph of the dummy solder joint
The characteristic life of experimental test for DL-WLCSP is 871 cycles
Results and Discussions
To obtaining the sensitivity information of each 
factors, six important factors of the DL-WLCSP 
structure which impact on solder joint 
reliability are selected for the two-level analysis 
of a full-factorial design with 64 runs.
Parameter Sensitivity Analysis
Incremental equivalent plastic strain
Cycles
The results of ANOVA
Results and Discussions
Parameter Sensitivity Analysis
Results and Discussions
Main/Interaction effect strength
Die thickness / Substrate thickness
Fatigue life of the solder joint is very insensitive to the thickness of  the die if the 
design parameter of the substrate thickness is high, but is very sensitive to the 
thickness of the die if the substrate thickness factor is low
Solder ball volume Buffer layer thickness Die/substrate thickness
The solder ball volume and stress compliant-layer thickness have a negative 
contribution to equivalent plastic strain
Substrate thickness
Results and Discussions
Fixed constant contour path of area (a= 1.0um, b=0.06um, ratio of b/a=0.06 )
Discuss J-integral value ~ for interfacial crack length = 3 um
For the nodal crack length
Discussion:
The J-integral value has the trend towards a 
stable value when a increase in the mesh density.
For the comparison of the element division in 
thickness between 5 layers and 10 layers, the  
division of 60 elements in the direction of 
crack length is enough to obtain a stable value 
among them.
Crack tip
1um
0.06um
The effect of mesh density
Results and Discussions
4-point bending geometry 
Source: Interfacial adhesion study for copper SiLK
interconnects in flip_chip packages, ECTC 2001
Experimental verification of 4-point bending test
l
Gc=97 J/m2
Gc=106 J/m222 2
c
c 2 3
21(1 )P lG
16EB h

Analytic procedures:
(1) Find Pc:
B= 6mm, h=200um (Wafer thickness), l=12.5 mm
Pc=4.41 N
Gc=97 J/m2
For SiLK/ SiO2 interface:
Results and Discussions
E=130 GPa,  =0.3
SiLK:
SiO2:
E=2.45 GPa,  =0.35
E=80 GPa,  =0.3
Si wafer:
(2) Construct FEA model:
SiLK: 500 nm thickness
SiO2: 100 nm thickness
Analytic procedures:
For SiLK/ SiO2 interface:
a
b
Si wafer
SiO2
SiLK
Crack
Enlarge view
(3) Interfacial crack length :
1mm, 3mm, 5mm, 7mm, 10mm, 11.5mm
Results and Discussions
Crack tip opening displacements (CTOD) method
y xK 2.39766 1.000148907 ( 0.1296644026) / r / 2          
(3) Stress intensity factor
 2 2G 0.05105 K K  
x yK 2.39766 1.000148907 ( 0.1296644026) / r / 2         
Different distance r from the crack tip as well as the corresponding displacement x 
and y is substituted to obtain KI and KII. Then, the energy release rate is as follow:
 2 2 2
e
1G K K
E  
 
1 2 2 1
1 2 2 1
( 1) ( 1)
( 1) ( 1)
            
i
i
i
E
2(1 )
   1 2e
1 1 1 1
E 2 E E
    
i
i 2
i
EE
(1 )
 
Where
In this study, 
M1
E(GPa)
10
ESL 58.8 0.3
0.3 (Mat. 1)
(Mat. 2)
(1) Shear modulus
1=3.8461 GPa
2=22.6153 GPa
(2) Plane strain condition is assumed
Results and Discussions
2Y 0.12622 0.16157X 0.10879X  
Verification:
When r=0 m
When r=0.05 m
J=0.1262 N/m
J=0.1184 N/m
When r=0.10 m J=0.1111 N/m
Compared with the result of stable J-value 
( 0.114N/m) at r=0obtained from FEA , there are 
about error of 10.7% by using curve fitting.
The phase angle maintain at about 82.6o as a change of the distance r along the interface from the 
crack tip. In addition, the result also show that the cracking force is shear dominant.
Crack tip opening displacements (CTOD) method
Results and Discussions
Substrate
M1
E (GPa)CTE(ppm)
600
0.2
10
23
Material properties
Thick.(um)
Mold.
ESL1
ILD
Si Die
Die att.
1.5
500
25.4
1
5~770
100
15.7
3
1.5
26
6
160
58.8
58.8
10
24
0.055
Geometry impacts on the growth of dissimilar materials
Die thickness effect on low-k layer stress
Larger rigidity  providing by a thicker die thickness ( above 400um ), the larger J-integral value is 
dominant resulting from larger CTE mismatch between M1 and ESL1 layers.
Discussion:
Due to the CTE mismatch between die attach layer and  ESL1 (100~1.5) is larger than the CTE 
mismatch between M1 layer and ESL1 layer (23~1.5), thereby the larger J value would be made.
Results and Discussions
Investigations of Interfacial crack with node tie-release 
technique
Conventional case
Nodes tied/released case (Dummy ball)
Dummy ball : 0.02308  
(711 cycles )
Real ball : 0.01307 
(2,166 cycles )
Dummy ball : (N/A) Real ball : 0.013554  
(2,018 cycles )
Using contact pair/ and no bonding case (Dummy ball)
Dummy ball : (N/A) Real ball : 0.01494  
(1,668 cycles )
Comparisons:
Perfect Bond
Dummy ball
Tied/Released
Overall break
The overall break of the interface area at the dummy joints without 
providing any structural support is simulated. (Using contact pair setting)
The result predicted by tie/release method is between the result of 
conventional FEA and using contact pair setting.
Results and Discussions
Investigations of Interfacial crack 
with node tie-release technique
Loading : T=453k to T= 298 k
Die thickness = 700 um
Criterion of node de-bonding:
J-integral value > 3 J/m2 
Node bonding length= 23 um
Source:F. Lanckmans et. al., Applied Surface 
Science, Vol. 201, pp. 20-34, 2002.
Conclusions (1)
Interfacial crack/delamination has become a key focus of most observed 
reliability issues in the development of microelectronic devices
Use of the design of simulation (DOS) concept, the sensitivity and 
design significance of each concerned factor are found
For a interfacial crack of dissimilar materials, finding a suitable path to 
obtain a stable J-integral value is important 
Predict a stable interfacial fracture energy 
All analytic results indicate that a rectangular path is suggested:
More than three  layers of element at each side of crack surface are included
The path of J-integral with a rectangular shape is smaller than 0.1 of b/a
The long side of the rectangular is arranged to parallel the crack propagation direction
The center of rectangular contour is located at the crack tip
Validated by a 4-point bending test and compared with the relative 
experimental data of multi low-k dielectric films
A comparison between different line-types of interfacial crack is 
discussed
Simulation-based DOE & RSM (Geometrical factors of DL-WLCSP)
Conclusions (2)
Novel tie-release crack prediction technique based on the finite element 
calculation 
The findings of this research can also be used as a FEA suggestion for 
fracture mechanics that consider the wafer/packaging level impacts on 
the Cu/low-k stacked structures 
Adopt modified Hill criterion: (DL-WLCSP)
Interfacial fracture energy: (PBGA package with Cu/low-k structures)
The crack advance or delamination between the interconnects of 
microelectronic devices is successfully predicted 
Feasibility study and error estimation of the SBC method (global / local 
modeling) for multi-layered low-k structure 
Summarize the crack prediction theory such as J-Integral, virtual crack 
closure techniques and compare with the result of analytical solution
Thanks for Your Attention !!
Introduction
Advanced Packages:
Reduce the stress resulted from the CTE mismatch between die and substrate
Ultra CSP (Polymer Collar WLP)
Kim, et al., (2002)
Microspring
Novitsky, et al., (1999)
Structure of stacked module Solder-coated polymer spheres
Rami, et al., (2001)
Results and Discussions
Embed a line-type crack tip in M1 layer
Close to the crack tip (Singularity )
Stable value
Embed a line-type crack tip in ESL1 layer
Close to the crack tip (Singularity )
Stable value
Results and Discussions
The comparison between virtual crack length and real crack length at 
M1, ESL1 layer v.s. different crack length
Fixed a constant/stable J-integral contour path
Under an increasing traction loading, the J-value increases with the 
crack length, which means an unstable crack growth after initiation. 
E : 2 ~ 40 GPa
CTE : 5 ~ 35 ppm/oCDesign range:
0.3902
0.6981
0.3008
0.3501
0.2905
0.4361
0.4490
0.2308
0.3636
J-integral value 02 (N/m)
0.387752
0.69823540
0.3005540
0.3491521
0.2935202
0.43653521
0.44892040
0.2304352
0.36322021
J-integral value 01 (N/m)CTE (ppm/oC)E (GPa)
Loading : Epoxy package temperature
~~ T=453k (180 oC) to T= 298 k (25 oC)
0.05 m
0.01 mElement Size
For the E, CTE of low-k mateial ~ Assume interfacial crack length = 3 um
Die thickness = 700 um
RSM~ CCD method
For the nodal crack length
Results and Discussions
Design range:
Interaction plot
Low-k
E (GPa)CTE(ppm)
Var.
ESL 1.5 58.8
Var.
Similar with the curve of interaction is discussed in 
larger design range
E : 2 ~ 40 GPa
CTE : 5 ~ 35 ppm/oC
high level ( 35 ppm/oC)
low level ( 5 ppm/oC)
Consider the CTE is fixed at low level ( 5 ppm/oC):
Consider the CTE is fixed at high level ( 35 ppm/oC):
There is a unobvious variation on the J-integral value when 
the E of low-k material changes between 2 GPa and 40 GPa. 
The reason is that the smaller CTE mismatch between low-
k and ESL layer. In addition, when the E of low-k material is 
close to the E of ESL (58.8 GPa), it seems that the min. J-
integral value can be obtained as a  result of similar 
material properties compared with the ESL layer.
The multi-stacked Cu/low-k layers could be regarded as an 
equivalent stress-buffer layer. That is, the E and CTE of 
low-k mat. are dominant factors to affect the value of J-
integral at  high level of E. The smaller the E of low-k mat., 
the lower the J-integral value. 
Specified low-k material:
BD
E (GPa) CTE (ppm/ oC)
J1 (N/m) J2 (N/m) 
10 10 
0.3670 0.3684 
RSM~ CCD method
Results and Discussions
Design range:
Obtain the surface response curve
2 2J = 0.46305 6.16e-3 E 0.01214 CTE 2.674e-5 E + 1.39e-4 CTE + 4.868e-4 E *CTE       
Std. Dev. : 0.011 N/m
BD
FEA results RSM models Errors (%)
0.3670 0.3453 5.91
E : 2 ~ 40 GPa
CTE : 5 ~ 35 ppm/oC
BD
RSM~ CCD method
Results and Discussions Basic 4-pt Bending Equation
2. For a Euler-Bernoulii beam theory for Plane Strain condition
 2 21 v M
U
2EI

h1
h2
E1,v1
E2,v2
L
b
p
2b
p
2b
2a
L
3. Energy relationship of before and after crack
   
initial final
2 2 2 2
2 2
ss
2 c 2 2
E E
M 1 v M 1 v
G
2E I 2E I

   
 
 
 
 
2
2 131
2 212 2
1 2
2
1 2 1 23 31
c 1 212 12
1 2
E 1 v
I h ,
E 1 v
h h h h
I h h
4 h h

   
     
PL
2bM 
1. Moment at uniform area
Source: P. G. Charalabides et al, ASME transaction on J. Applied Mechanics, vol. 56, pp. 77-82, 1989
Outline
Introduction
Motivation of Research
Experiments on 3D Stacking Chips
Validation of Stress Simulations
Results and Discussions
Conclusions
Simulation Methodology of Process-Flow Stress
Introduction
Moore’s Law vs. More-Than-Moore
A
B
Moore’s Law More than Moore
2D SoC
MEMORY
Thin Chip
3D Si Integration
Thin Chips
B
DISPLAY OPTO
DSP MEMS
PROCESSOR,
ASIC, MCU, etc.
DSP
DISPLAY TSV
Long Wiring (from A to B) in 2D SoC
MEMORY
OPTO
TSV
MEMS
PROCESSOR.
A  ASIC, MCU, etc.
Micro
Bumps
Wafer-to-wafer bonding
Very short wiring in 3D Si
integration with very tiny
TSVs, thin wafers/chips,
and bumpless (no bumps!)
Short Wiring (from A to B) in
3D IC Integration with TSVs,
thin chips, and microbumps,
(Sources : John H. Lau, 3D IC Integration PDC)
3D IC Integration
Introduction
3D-ICs Technology
Intel  CPU + memory
Samsung 16Gb NAND stack with TSV
Why stacking chips in 3D?
Improve Interconnect Density
Reduced Form Factor
Increase Speed, Reduce Power Consumption
Reduced Parasitic Capacitance / Inductance
Provide Heterogeneous Integration
Wafer level Underfill (WLUF) Process 
Multi chip stacking with fine pitch microbump connection, the capillary dispensing presents 
big limitations in term of cost and process ability. A possible approach for reliable multi-chip 
stacking could be offered by WLUF. 
Material Properties
97.5Sn/2.5Ag lead-free solder
Lead-free solder ball
Nonlinear & temperature dependence:
The E of Cu is assumed to be a bilinear material model 
Materials Young’s modulus (E) CTE (ppm/℃) Poisson’s Ratio
Si 169.5 GPa 3 0.28 
Cu 
E = 122 GPa 
Ref. T = 25℃ 
Yield stress = 173 MPa 
ET = 1.2 GPa 
17 0.35 
Passivation 155 GPa 5 0.28 
WLUF 6.8GPa@ 25C 53 0.33 
SnAg solder 
Temperature 
dependence 
22.5 0.4 
IMC 85.6 GPa 
-40℃:16.3 
25℃:17.6 
50℃:18.1 
125℃:19.3 
0.31 
Ni 186 12.5 0.342 
Al 72 GPa 24 0.36 
 
The Material Properties of Analysis 
Methodology of FEM Analysis
STEP1- Apply the external pressure (bonding force) at T= 250oC.
In this stage, the Wafer level underfill (WLUF) is in liquidity status 
for FEA, the WLUF is in the element-dead status, bumps are in   
bonding condition.
STEP2- Curing the WLUF at T= 250oC.Status of the adhesive transferred
from element-dead to element-birth .
STEP3- Release the bonding  force at T= 250oC.
STEP4- Cool down to room temperature of  25oC.
Heat and Pressure
Simulation steps for WLUF process sequence 
Validation of Stress Simulations
Status of releasing force & cooling down to RM
Displacement at 
vertical direction
(Die 
thick.=50μm)No difference
After cooling to RM, a 0.44 μm warp is obtained for array-type μbumps underneath the die 
region. It should be noted that the warpage with various die thickness is almost the same under 
different bonding force.
A warp of ~1.84 μm is obtained for the situation of 50 μm die thickness under loading of 2 kg 
bonding force. A huge warp of ~ 2.66 μm is expected for a thinner chip with 40 μm thick.
2.66μm
1.84μm
1.14μm1.71μm
1.31μm
0.96μm
Center Edge
Analytic Results of FEA
Stress contour of ubumps
Von Mise stress contour of μbumps at die corner region
Cu stud corner
IMC/lead-free solder
Max. von Mise stress occurs on the IMC/SnAg interface at the most outside μbump. 
In addition, the top-side μbump close to the corner region of Cu stud has a high 
possibility to fail.
Effect of Concerned Designed Factors in 
Packaging Structure
Chip thickness effect
IMC Bump corner
IMC region μ-bump corner
The max. strain occurs in the region between IMC & lead-free solder in the outermost μ-bump. 
A thinner die thickness under a larger bonding force (4.0 kg) would has a larger von-Mise strain as 
compared with other situations. 
It is attributed to a large warpage reduces the bump gap so as to be difficult to release 
shear strain by the bump height while a thermal stress is induced. 
Effect of Concerned Designed Factors in 
Packaging Structure
CTE effect of WLUF
Chip thickness= 50μm
IMC
For IMC region, under the combined effects of bonding force & thermal stress resulted from CTE 
mismatch of materials, the case of 4 kg bonding force has higher strain among them. In addition, 
the strain increases following a raise in the CTE of underfill. 
A large CTE of underfill is easy to induce a large warpage, especially for a thin chip.  
 
 
 
 
 
國科會國外研討會心得報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               撰寫人：李昌駿 
               單位名稱：中原大學機械工程學系 
               出國地點：香港(Hong Kong) 
               出國日期：2012/12/13 ~ 2012/12/16 
 
 
 
 
 Emerging Packaging Technologies 
 Interconnection Technologies 
 System-in-Package (SiP) and 3D Stacked Die Packaging  
 Electrical Modeling, Characterization, and Signal Integrity 
 Thermal-Mechanical Modeling and Characterization  
 Packaging Technologies for High Brightness LEDs  
 Quality and Reliability 
 
二、 口頭論文報告過程與心得： 
這次的研討會共發表約 130篇前瞻重要之封裝技術論文，主要邀
請約全球各地包含日本、韓國、台灣以及美國等各國於重要封裝技術
領域上之研究人員約 200 多人參與。本次本人投稿之論文題目為
Assembly Analysis of Cu/Ni/SnAg Microbump for Stacking Thin 
Chips in a Fine Pitch Package Using a Wafer-level Underfill，安排為
會議第二天下午第二場(Session I-c TSV)的第七篇發表，參與的各界
先進學者與廠商相當踴躍。而發表場地為香港的 Citygate, Lantau 
Island Invotel Kotel的 Room C會議室。而來自台灣的傅勝利校長與全
球第一大封裝廠日月光之 Ho-Ming Tong 受邀擔任大會的 keynote 
speaker，而本人所發表論文之場次的主持人(Session Chair)為 IEEE 
Fellow/ASME Fellow 清華大學江國寧教授與台北科技大學的 Prof. 
WS Jou擔任。而眾多與會者包括另一位 IEEE Fellow John Lau與長庚
大學機械系系主任蔡明義教授，以及全球當地重要學者與封裝重要公
司研究人員等人；本次發表論文之摘要列於下方： 
影響？針對此問題，我的答覆為，會的，如本論文之 Wafer level 
underfill 之製程溫度為 250oC，若能夠設法降低上述製程溫度，則封
裝翹曲量將會降低；而另一有效做法，則是使用新式具有低熱膨脹係
數的封裝材料，且進行封裝結構最佳化之程序，如此一來，上述問題
將可以克服解決。此外，在會議進行中間休息時間，亦有相關研究學
者到場，彼此也互相討論與交換研究心得，如本人認識高雄義守大學
機械系徐祥禎教授，其亦是台灣傑出的封裝研究學者，彼此交流討論
一下三維晶片封裝技術的進展。而本人亦感到此會議有增進參與者對
此研究的興趣相互討論，進而對於彼此的研究增加更多的刺激與新的
思考。 
 
 
 
裝技術對於元件微小化，提出相當大的助益之見解與參考價值。 
在此特別感謝國科會提供經費上的補助，使得我能順利參與
EMAP2012國際研討會的機會，EMAP2012國際研討會是每年一次在
亞洲各國輪流舉辦的重要國際研討會，參與此研討會除可以增進本人
對於下一世代封裝專業技術與目前熱門之三維晶片封裝領域的相關
知識外，亦可與國外目前從事相關研究之科學家與先進學者進行的交
流溝通。 
     
 
四、 攜回資料內容 
1. 會議論文發表程序冊 
2. EMAP2012會議論文電子檔 
3. 當地資料與參展科技廠商資訊 
However, the warped issue during WLUF process 
influenced subsequent assembly of chip stacking and 
mechanical reliability of µ-bumps. To investigate the 
concerned issue, a vehicle of chip-on-chip packaging structure 
shown in Fig. 1 is utilized to assist the understanding of 
warpage induced from the step of chip stacking. Via four 
microbump arrays combined with WLUF process, an extent of 
5.1 mm × 5.1 mm for a top chip is assembled to a bottom chip 
with an area of 16 mm × 16 mm. The detailed sizes of 
microbumps with a fine pitch of 30 µm are also revealed in 
Fig. 1(b). Moreover, the cross-sectional views of microbumps 
under different magnitudes of bonding forces are shown in 
Fig. 2. It is found that a gap reduction between chips at the 
edge is extremely serious as compared with the situation of 
packaging center. For the purpose of estimating the warpage 
issue caused in WLUF assembly and the mechanical reliability 
of a critical microbump during a temperature cycling period, a 
nonlinear simulation methodology based on finite element 
analysis (FEA) integrated with process-oriented 
considerations is proposed in this research. Furthermore, in 
order to improve the concerned waprage issue, two different 
types of layout designs for microbumps with dummy joints are 
systematically analyzed. Through the structural designs, an 
expectation for ensuring mechanical reliability with a WLUF 
technique would like to be completely achieved. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Compressive magnitude of microbump deformation at 
the center and edge region of packaging structure with 
several thermal-compression loads. 
 
Theory of Thermal Stress 
The major driving force of structural failure resulting from 
the thermal stress has been a long-term concern for electronic 
devices. This is especially true because thermal stress plays an 
important role when it comes to the reliability of 3D ICs 
packages. Approximately, the sources of thermal stress could 
be divided into two parts: one is formed by a temperature 
gradient distributed around a single material such as the 
operated condition of a silicon chip; another one, which rises 
greatly at the bonding interface, comes from the assembly of 
materials with different thermal extensions under the thermal 
cycling load or the temperature of the fabrication process. 
Usually, the foregoing phenomenon can be observed during 
tests done on electronic packages and the deposited film 
process of IC chips. In this study, the simulated analysis based 
on the finite element method (FEM) is assumed as a steady 
state because there are no considered cases for heat source and 
heat transfer. Consequently, the thermal strain resulting from a 
temperature difference can be obtained according to the 
following definition: 
2
1
T
t t tT
(T)dT Tε = α =α ∆∫  (1) 
where εt indicates the thermal strain, αt indicates the CTE, 
T1 and T2 indicate the temperatures at different stages, 
respectively, and ∆T indicates the variation in temperature. On 
the other hand, all directions of each coordinated plane are 
supposed to have the same CTE for a homogeneous and 
isotropic material. Therefore, the total strain can be received 
by the following expression [11]: 
T
i t x y zT 0 0 0 ε = ε = ∆ α α α   (2) 
where iε  refers to the vector of initial strain, and tε  refers 
to the vector of strain with a temperature variation. On the 
other hand, all directions of each coordinated plane have the 
same CTE for a homogeneous and isotropic material. In other 
words, αx=αy=αz=αt. Therefore, the total strain vector, 
T
xzyzxyzyxT ][ γγγεεε=ε
 
can be received by the following finite element 
calculation: 
[ ] 1T tE −ε = σ + ε  (3) 
By means of the above-mentioned equation, the vector of 
mechanical stress, 
T
xzyzxyzyx ][ τττσσσ=σ
 
can now be rewritten as follows: 
[ ] T tE ( )σ = ε − ε  (4) 
where [E] is the material characteristic matrix of the 3D 
structural analysis. 
 
Process Oriented Stress Simulation Methodology  
According to the dimensions revealed in Fig. 1 and Fig. 3 
and a geometrical symmetry condition, along the cutting line 
of A’-A’ shown in Fig. 1, a half of two dimensional chip-on-
chip packaging structure based on the assumption of plane 
strain status is constructed to perform the nonlinear process-
oriented FEA following the thermal-compression approach of 
WLUF. There has a totally 67 microbumps with a pitch of 30 
µm in this FEA model. Due to a broad region outside the areas 
of microbump arrays is a rich WULF regarded to have a weak 
support, the shape of WLUF fillet is evidently dependent upon 
the bonding force as shown in Fig. 3. Therefore, the actual 
geometries and components are introduced into a finite 
element model in accordance with the loading conditions. It 
should be noted that the critical microbump is at the outermost 
location from the packaging center. In other words, the 
maximum thermal stress/strain resulted from CTE mismatch 
among material components occurs on the furthest site of 
microbump array. All the material properties required to input 
packaging structure and related long-term mechanical 
reliability. Consequently, both the CTE and Young’s modulus 
of WLUF are performed a parametric analysis to discuss their 
effect on the magnitude of plastic strain generated at the 
critical microbump. When considering the factor regarding 
CTE of WLUF, the predicted results for the examined range 
from 5 ppm/oC to 53 ppm/oC are shown in Fig. 5. For the 
situation of 50 µm thick top chip, the max. equivalent plastic 
strain reduce significantly from 3.44 % to 0.36 % as the CTE 
of WLUF continues decreasing. The foregoing phenomenon 
can be attributed to that a diminution in CTE mismatch 
between WULF and its neighbouring bonded components is 
contributive to arrest thermal strain occurred on microbumps. 
In addition, it should be noted that the rigidity effect provided 
by silicon chip is small as a comparison of both thicknesses 
for 50 µm and 720 µm is implemented.  
 
 
Fig. 5 A comparison of max. equivalent plastic strain for two 
top chip thicknesses having the critical microbump affected 
by different CTE of WLUF. 
 
 
Fig. 6 A comparison of max. equivalent plastic strain 
occurred on the critical microbump of two top chip 
thicknesses as various Young’s modulus of WLUF is 
considered. 
 
On the other hands, when taking the Young’s modulus of 
WLUF into account, the wide range between 1 GPa and 60 
GPa is estimated as shown in Fig. 6. It is found that the max. 
equivalent strain occurred on the critical microbump drops 
greatly as the magnitude of  Young’s modulus below 10 GPa 
is considered. The behavior is assigned to that a WLUF made 
of soft material could be regarded as a stress buffer 
mechanism during thermal cycling tests even through the use 
of a high CTE of 53 ppm/oC is maintained in the meanwhile. 
Moreover, due to a thinner top thickness has a better 
capability to release stress/strain by using its excellent 
flexibility, a smaller strain is therefore obtained and observed 
significantly at the domain of Young’s modulus larger than 
approximate 10 GPa. From these analytic results regarding 
mechanical properties of WLUF, a selection having a low 
CTE and a compliant elasticity is suggested. 
 
 
Fig. 7 A sketch of microbump arrangements by extending the 
distance between a critical bump and a dummy bump. 
 
Design Effects of Dummy Microbumps on Assembly of 
Chip-on Chip Packaging  
For the purpose of retarding warpage or sustaining co-
planarity during the assembly of chip-on-chip package, and 
enhance the mechanical reliability of critical microbump under 
thermal cycling tests, one of the promising approaches is to 
utilize the designed concepts of dummy microbumps. In this 
study, two arranged designs, called as the distance between 
critical and dummy joints and the numbers of dummy joints, 
are considered respectively. For the former design, the 
enlarged view of the outermost location of microbump array 
constructed in FEA is presented in Fig. 7. Several separated 
distances between the critical and dummy joints, such as 30 
µm, 60 µm, 90 µm, 120 µm, and 150 µm, are taken into 
account. It should be noted that the warpage acquired from 
numerical predictions with a process-oriented simulated 
technique is the vertical displacement at the edge of top 
surface of proposed packaging structures. Furthermore, the 
attention for the maximum equivalent plastic strain of critical 
microbump is always paid in thermal cycling loads. As 
revealed in Fig. 8, owing to a thinner silicon chip having a 
more flexibility in contrast to thicker one, a variation of 
warpage increment becomes enormous when the thickness of 
top chip is highly scaled from 100 µm to 50 µm. In addition, 
the simulated results indicate that a diminution in the warpage 
increment would be achieved as the dummy joint is gradually 
far away the outermost real joint. Under a thermal-
compression load of 2 kg, the warpage with the case of 50 µm 
thick in top chip can be evidently improved from 1.14 µm to 
0.72 µm as an increase in the distance between critical and 
and edge of packaging structure diminishes (only about 0.16 
µm). Moreover, it is notable to the fact that while a top chip 
thicker than 70 µm is used, a maximum warp occurred on the 
chip edge of top chip would be converged at about 0.529 µm  
by arranging at least five dummy microbumps nearby the 
critical joint. At the moment, a further elimination in wrap is 
accomplished (a slight warped difference of ~70nm in the top 
surface of packaging structures).  
 
 
Fig. 11 A curve for the increasing number effect of dummy 
microbumps on warpage increments during a packaging 
assembly procedure with thermal-compression approach of 
WLUF. 
 
 
Fig. 12 Effect of increasing numbers of dummy micrbumps 
on the variation of max. equivalent plastic strain within the 
critical microbump for three top chip thicknesses. 
 
From the viewpoint of restraining equivalent plastic strain 
generated in the outermost microbump, the numbers of 
dummy joints from one to five are examined to investigate 
their effect on the micro-joint reliability. As shown in Fig. 12, 
the simulated results indicate that the plastic strain on a critical 
microbump from 1.12% to 0.87% is reduced as five dummy 
joints introduced into the packaging assembly with a 50 µm 
thickness of a top chip. In addition, a thick chip having a 
strong rigidity is difficult to release stress through the 
mechanism of structural deformation, a shear strain on 
microbump come from CTE mismatch among material 
components could not be consequently liberated by a suitable 
gateway. By means of the design with the addition to dummy 
joints, the diminished margin is especially significant while a 
thicker top chip is studied (As seen in Fig .12 ). Furthermore, 
it is found that whatever the top chip thickness the package 
has, the strain within the concerned microbump would be 
toward a minimum magnitude of ~ 0.87% while the numbers 
of dummy joints more than three are considered in the 
packaging designs. 
 
Conclusions 
The presented WLUF process is a promising approach to 
enhance the mechanical reliability of microbumps during the 
assembly of a chip-on-chip package. However, the undesired 
warped phenomenon induced from the thermal-compression 
procedures of WLUF is seriously to influence the subsequent 
stacks of thin chips and to generate apparent plastic strain on 
the array-type microbumps during a thermal cycling load. To 
address this issue, two layout designs, regarding the interval 
between the critical and dummy microbumps and the numbers 
of dummy joints, are proposed in this investigation. Through 
the validation with experimental data, the simulated results 
estimated by the process-oriented FEA point out that 
increasing numbers of dummy joints more than three arranged 
close to the critical microbump is an efficient design to reduce 
the magnitudes of packaging warpage and max. plastic strain 
as well. At the moment, the effect resulted from top chip 
thickness becomes similar. With the application of a 2.0 kg 
bonding force, a difference of warpage between the packaging 
center and the edge of top chip could be reduced to ~70nm 
while the use of top chip with a 70 µm thickness is utilized. In 
other words, the co-planarity of WLUF assembly at this 
situation could be well maintained. On the other hands, the 
max. equivalent plastic strain formed within a critical 
microbumps smaller than 0.87% is estimated as at least three 
dummy joints are considered in the packaging layout. From 
the presented results explained in this research, increasing 
numbers of dummy joint has a advantage to warpage reduction 
and strain diminution of real microbumps. However, it should 
be noted that an additional packaging area needs to be used to 
include the above-mentioned dummy joints. How to arrange 
these microbumps to obtain a optimal mechanical reliability 
requires the judgments of professional researchers in 
accordance with the actual applications. All the findings 
presented in this research can also be regarded as a FEA 
suggestion for the development of WLUF technology with 
regarded to the assembly and mechanical reliability of 
advanced 3D-ICs packages. 
 
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to thank the National Center for 
High-performance Computing (NCHC) for supporting this 
research, as well as the National Science Council of Taiwan, 
R.O.C. for providing financial support under contract number 
NSC-100-2218-E-033-002-MY2. Likewise, the fabricating 
support of the specimens from EORL/ITRI is deeply 
appreciated by the authors. 
Conference Program
Citygate, Lantau Island, Hong Kong
Sponsors:
Organizers: Co-organizers:
- 2 - 
 
ABOUT EMAP2012 
The 14th International Conference on 
Electronics Materials and Packaging is held at 
Novotel Hong Kong Citygate, Lantau Island, 
Hong Kong, 13–16 December, 2012. The 
purpose of the conference is to promote 
awareness of new advances in materials, 
design and simulations, fabrication, 
reliability, and thermal management of 
microsystem/MEMS packages. The technical 
program includes invited and contributed 
presentations on theoretical, numerical, and 
experimental work of electronic materials and 
packaging. Technical short courses are also 
arranged. 
 
CONFERENCE VENUE 
Novotel Hong Kong Citygate  
Tung Chung, NT, Hong Kong  
 
ORGANISING COMMITTEE 
General Chair  
Ricky Lee  
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology 
Email: rickylee@ust.hk 
 
General Co-Chair & Treasurer 
Joseph Choy 
ASM Assembly Automation Ltd. 
Email: joseph.choy@asmpt.com  
 
Industry Liaison Chair  
Ming Li 
ASM Assembly Automation Ltd. 
Email: mli@asmpt.com 
 
Technical Program Chair 
Jingshen Wu 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology 
Email: mejswu@ust.hk 
 
Treasurer  
Jeffery Lo 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology 
Email: jefflo@ust.hk 
 
Secretariat 
Zheming Zhang 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology 
Email: emap2012s@ust.hk 
 
STEERING COMMITTEE  
(in country alphabetical order)   
Jang-Kyo Kim  
Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, 
Hong Kong 
Ricky Lee  
Hong Kong University of Science & Technology, 
Hong Kong   
Mikio Horie  
Tokyo Institute of Technology, Japan   
Noriyuki Miyazaki   
Kyoto University, Japan   
Young-Ho Kim  
Hanyang University, Korea   
Kyung W. Paik  
Korean Advanced Institute of Science & 
Technology, Korea   
Azhar Aripin  
Onsemi, Malaysia   
Shaw Fong Wong  
Intel, Malaysia   
Yew Choon Chia  
Seagate, Singapore   
Sung Yi  
Portland State University, USA/Singapore  
Kuo-Ning Chiang  
National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan   
Shen-Li Fu  
I-Shou University, Taiwan 
 
DOMESTIC ADVISORY BOARD  
(in last name alphabetical order)   
Philip C. H. Chan  
Hong Kong Polytechnic University   
Ken Y. M. Cheung  
ASM Pacific Technology   
T. Onishi  
G. J. Tech   
C. P. Wong  
Chinese University of Hong Kong   
Enboa Wu  
Hong Kong Applied Science & Technology 
Research Institute  
Matthew M. F. Yuen  
Hong Kong University of Science & Technology   
 
INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY 
COMMITTEE  
Masahiro Aoyaki 
NeRI, Japan 
Rolf Aschenbrenner  
Fraunhofer Institute IZM, Germany  
 
- 4 - 
 
HIGHLIGHTS OF EMAP2012 
 
SHORT COURSES:  13 DECEMBER 2012, THURSDAY, 14:00-17:00  
 
SHORT COURSE I  
Venue: Teaching Rooms-E-Learning Classroom A, University Library, Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology (HKUST), Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong 
Title: 3D IC Packaging, 3D IC Integration, and 3D Si Integration  
Instructor: Dr. John H. Lau (Industrial Technology Research Institute, Taiwan) 
 
Biography: 
Dr. John Lau has been an ITRI Fellow of Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI in 
Taiwan) since January 2010. Prior to that, he was a visiting professor at HKUST for 1 year, 
the Director of MMC Laboratory with IME in Singapore for 2 years and a Senior Scientist/ 
MTS at HPL/Agilent in California, US for more than 25 years. With more than 35 years of 
R&D and manufacturing experience, he has published more than 350 peer-reviewed papers, 
30 issued and pending US patents, given 270 lectures/workshops/keynotes worldwide, 
published 17 textbooks on TSV for 3D integrations, 3D MEMS packaging, flip chip & WLP, 
high-density PCB, SMT, and lead-free materials, soldering, manufacturing and reliability. 
John earned his PhD degree from the University of Illinois, 3 MASc degrees in North 
America. John received many awards and is an elected ASME Fellow and has been an IEEE 
Fellow since 1994. 
 
Introduction: 
3D integration consists of 3D IC packaging, 3D IC integration, and 3D Si integration, which 
will be discussed in this lecture. Emphases are placed on the key enabling technologies for 
3D IC/Si integrations, such as TSV (through silicon via) forming. filling and Cu revealing, 
temporary wafer bonding, wafer thinning and handling, wafer debonding, low-cost lead-free 
microbumping (≤15μm pitch) and assembly, and thermal management. The potential 
applications of 3D IC integration such as memory-chip stacking, wide I/O memory, wide I/O 
DRAM, wide I/O interface, and active and passive interposers will be presented. Useful 
characterization and reliability data for 3D IC integration will also be provided. Furthermore, 
3D MEMS and IC integration and 3D LED and IC integration will be discussed. Finally, 
several roadmaps of 3D IC/Si integration will be provided. All the materials are based on the 
technical papers and books published within the past 3 years by the lecturer and others. 
 
SHORT COURSE II  
Venue: Teaching Rooms-E-Learning Classroom B, University Library, Hong Kong 
University of Science and Technology (HKUST), Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong 
Title: Polymers and Nano-Composites in Electronic, Opto-Electronic and Photonic 
Packaging 
Instructor: Prof. C. P. Wong, (Regents’ Professor and the Charles Smithgall Institute 
Endowed, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA) 
 
Biography: 
Prof. C. P. Wong is a Regents’ Professor and the Charles Smithgall Institute Endowed Chair 
- 6 - 
 
 
 
EXCURSION AND LUNCHEON:  16 DECEMBER 2012, SUNDAY, 10:00-14:00 
A spectacular cable car journal to the big Buddha (http://www.np360.com.hk) is arranged. In 
addition, a special luncheon with remarkable veg-cuisine will be provided at the famous 
temple in front of the big Buddha (http://www.plm.org.hk). 
 
 
 
 
 
STUDENT PAPER CONTEST:  16 DECEMBER 2012, SUNDAY, 12:20-12:30 
There is a student paper contest in EMAP2012 to recognize and encourage excellence in 
research studies related to electronic materials and packaging. The participant must be a 
registered full-time student as well as the first author and presenter of a contributed regular 
paper. Each participant can only identify one of his/her contributed papers to the contest. 
Three awards will be provided at cash prizes of US$600, 300, and 100. Up to five finalists 
will be selected by a Contest Evaluation Panel and invited to the Luncheon on 16 December. 
Presentation of the Student Paper Contest Awards will be made in the Luncheon. 
  
- 8 - 
 
 
Time\Date 15 December, Saturday 
09:00-12:20 
Session II-a 
Materials & 
Processing (2) 
Chair: C Bailey 
Co-chair: CM Liu 
Session II-b 
Reliability (1) 
Chair: Sung Yi 
Co-chair: ML Wu 
Session II-c 
LED & Power 
Electronics (1) 
Chair: MY Tsai 
Co-chair: LL Liu 
Session II-d 
Nano & Emerging 
Technologies (1) 
Chair: Robert Kao 
Co-chair: CQ Liu 
09:00-09:20 P104* P007* P037* P051 
09:20-09:40 P002+ P071 P109* P033+ 
09:40-10:00 P112+ P102 P039 P048+ 
10:00-10:20 P015 P115+ P068 P050 
10:20-10:40 P049+ P018+ P025 P054+ 
10:40-11:00 Tea Break 
11:00-11:20 P091* P026* P064* P009 
11:20-11:40 P027+ P019+ P093* P065 
11:40-12:00 P089 P031 P099 P062 
12:00-12:20 P058 P061 P105+ P022+ 
12:20-14:00 Lunch (Novotel, Essence) & EMAP Committee Meeting (Novotel, Olea) 
14:00-17:20 
Session III-a 
Interconnect & 
Bonding 
Chair: Ken Cheung 
Co-chair: YH Kim 
Session III-b 
Reliability (2) 
Chair: XP Zhang 
Co-chair: T Ikeda 
Session III-c 
LED & Power 
Electronics (2) 
Chair: T. Onishi 
Co-chair: BJ Lwo 
Session III-d 
Nano & Emerging 
Technologies (2) 
Chair: Jianmin Qu 
Co-chair: Ming Li 
14:00-14:20 P090* P057* P084* P070* 
14:20-14:40 P110 P045 P096 P004 
14:40-15:00 P006 P055 P097+ P014+ 
15:00-15:20 P028+ P012+ P044 P066+ 
15:20-15:40 Tea Break 
15:40-16:00 P017+ P035* P053 P116+ 
16:00-16:20 P085 P094* P081 P111 
16:20-16:40 P086 P029+ P119 P083 
16:40-17:00 P088 P023+ P082 P117 
17:00-17:20 - - P118 P087 
17:20-18:30 Buffering Time & Transportation 
18:30-20:30 Grand Banquet (Jumbo Floating Restaurant) 
Time\Date 16 December, Sunday 
10:00-12:20 Excursion to NP360 (Meeting point: cable car station at Tung Chung) 
12:20-14:00 Luncheon (Po Lim Monastery) & Student Paper Award Presentation 
- 10 - 
 
 
14 DECEMBER, 2012, FRIDAY  
 
09:00-09:20 Opening Ceremony 
  
 Keynote Session I 
 Chair: Sheng-Li Fu, I-Shou University, Taiwan 
09:20-10:00 Keynote A :System-in-a-Packages(SiPs) Making Center Stage 
Ho-Ming Tong, General Manager and Chief R&D Officer, ASE Group, Taiwan 
 
10:00-10:40 Keynote B : LED Cooling: From Junction to Ambient 
Richard Chang, CEO & Chairman, AepiTek Optoelectronics and ShineRayTek 
Optoelectronics, China 
10:40-11:00 Tea Break 
 Keynote Session II 
 Chair: William Chen, ASE Group, USA 
11:00-11:40 Keynote C: Flip Chip Packaging Technologies, Trend and Key Issues. 
 Yutaka Tsukada, General Manager, iPACKS, Japan 
 
11:40-12:20 Keynote D: Molding Technologies - A New Approach for System Integration   
Rolf Aschenbrenner, Deputy Director/Department Head, IZM Fraunhofer Institute , Germany 
  
 Session I-a Materials & Processing (1) (Room A) 
 Chair: KW Paik, KAIST; Co-chair: PS Wei, NSYSU 
14:00-14:20 
(P060*) 
Recent Advances in Anisotropic Conductive Adhesives (ACAs) Technology: Materials and 
Processing 
Kyung W. Paik 
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, KOREA 
 
14:20-14:40 
(P034+) 
 
Potential-assisted Assembly of Thiol-based Materials for Reliable Copper-Epoxy Interface 
Stephen C.T. KWOK, Matthew M.F. YUEN 
Department of Mechanical Engineering, The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, HONG KONG 
 
14:40-15:00 
(P043+) 
 
Preparation of MWCNT-Ni0.5Zn0.5Fe2O4-Epoxy Composites with both Dielectric and 
Ferromagnetic Properties 
Qi Zheng,1,2 Pengli Zhu,1* Rong Sun,1* , Ching-Ping Wong3 
1 Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, CHINA 
2 Shenzhen University, CHINA  
3 Department of Electronics Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, HONG 
KONG 
 
15:00-15:20 
(P046) 
 
Joint Properties of Micro Sn-58Bi Solder Bumps on Flexible Substrate  
Min-Su Kim1, 2, Yong-Ho Ko2, 3, Sehoon Yoo2, Chang-Woo Lee2 
1 Dept. of Electronic Packaging Engineering, University of Science & Technology, KOREA  
2 Micro-Joining Center, Korea Institute of Industrial Technology, KOREA  
3 Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, KAIST, KOREA  
 
15:20-15:40 
 
Tea Break 
15:40-16:00 
(P030*) 
 
Controlling Fusion Zone Shape and Peak Temperature Produced by Laser or Electron Beam 
P. S. Wei 
Department of Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical Engineering National Sun Yat-Sen 
University, TAIWAN 
- 12 - 
 
15:40-16:00 
(P120*) 
 
Laminates for MEMS and BioMEMS  
Mark Bachman, G.-P. Li 
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, 
USA 
 
16:00-16:20 
(P107*) 
 
Opportunities on Prolong Battery Stand-by Time 
Tam Yee Kam Daphne1, Chen Haibin2, Wu JingShen2 
1 NXP Semiconductors, HONG KONG 
2 The University of Hong Kong Science and Technology, HONG KONG 
 
16:20-16:40 
(P041) 
 
Inductive Link Design with Optimal Transfer Efficiency and a High CMRR 
Yi-Chieh Lin, Tzyy-Sheng Horng, Lih-Tyng Hwang 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Sun Yat-Sen University, TAIWAN  
 
16:40-17:00 
(P003+) 
 
In-line Monitoring of the Change of Residual Stress in Nano-Scale Transistors during Their 
Thin-Film Processing and Packaging 
Hironori Tago1, Ken Suzuki2, Hideo Miura2 
1Dept. of Nanomechanics, Graduate School of Engineering, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan  
 Fracture and Reliability Research Institute, Graduate School of Engineering, Tohoku 
University, Sendai, Japan 6-6-11-716, Aoba, Aramaki, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Japan 
 
17:00-17:20 
(P056) 
 
Development of thermal fatigue sensor for electrical and electronic equipment  
Yuya MINAKATA1, Qiuang YU1, Kanji Takagi2 
1Yokohama National University, Yokohama, JAPAN 
2OMRON Automotive Electronics Co, Ltd., JAPAN 
  
 Session I-c TSV (Room C) 
 Chair: KN Chiang, NTHU; Co-chair: WS Jou, NTUT 
14:00-14:20 
(P103*) 
 
Supply Chains for 3D IC Integration Manufacturing 
John H. Lau 
Electronics & Optoelectronics Research Laboratory, Industrial Technology Research Institute 
(ITRI), TAIWAN  
 
14:20-14:40 
(P036+) 
 
Warpage, Stresses and KOZ of 3D TSV DRAM Package During Manufacturing Processes 
P. S. Huang1, M. Y. Tsai1, C. Y. Huang1, P. C. Lin2, Lawrence Huang2, Michael Chang2, 
Steven Shih2, J.P. Lin2 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chang Gung University, TAIWAN  
2Technology Development Div, Nanya Technology Co., TAIWAN 
 
14:40-15:00 
(P076) 
 
A 3D Integration Testing Vehicle with TSV Interconnects 
Tiwei Wei1, Qian Wang1, Ziyu Liu1, Yinan Li3, Dejun Wang3, Tao Wang1, Jian Cai1,2 
1Institute of Microelectronics, Tsinghua University, CHINA 
2Tsinghua National Laboratory for Information Science and Technology, CHINA 
3Faculty of Electronic information and Electrical Engineering, Dalian University of 
Technology, CHINA 
 
15:00-15:20 
(P106) 
 
Through Silicon Via (TSV) Redundancy – A High Reliability, Networking Product 
Perspective 
Poh Choon Chew, Li Li, Jie Xue, William Eklow 
Cisco Systems, Inc 
 
15:20-15:40 
 
Tea Break 
15:40-16:00 
(P013+) 
 
Evaluation of the Crystallographic Quality of Electroplated Copper Thin-Film 
Interconnections Embedded in TSV Structures 
Ryosuke Furuya1, Ken Suzuki2, and Hideo Miura2 
1Dept. of Nanomechanics, Graduate School of Eng., Tohoku University, JAPAN 
2Fracture and Reliability Research Institute, Graduate School of Eng., Tohoku University, 
JAPAN 
- 14 - 
 
16:00-16:20 
(P092) 
 
The Evolution of IMCs’ Morphologies and Types in SAC and SAC+ Solder Bumps during 
Thermal Shock Process 
Ying Zhong1, Chun Qing Wang1, J.F.J.M. Caers2, Xiujuan Zhao2 
1State Key Laboratory of Advanced Welding and Joining, Harbin Institute of Technology, 
CHINA 
2Philips Research, Eindhoven, NETHERLANDS 
 
16:20-16:40 
(P113+) 
 
Assembly and Testing of Thermal Test Chip on Silicon Interposer with Through Silicon Via 
Ziyu Liu1, Jian Cai1, 2, Qian Wang1, Xi He1, Shuidi Wang1  
1Institute of Microelectronics, Tsinghua University, CHINA 
2Tsinghua National Laboratory for Information Science and Technology, CHINA 
 
16:40-17:00 
(P114+) 
 
Localized Heating and Bond Formation at Solder/Cu Interface Induced by Ultrasonic Friction 
Zhuolin Li1, Mingyu Li1, Jongmyung Kim2, Hongbae Kim2 
1Shenzhen Graduate School, Harbin Institute of Technology, CHINA 
2Jeonnam Provincial College, SOUTH KOREA 
 
17:00-17:20 
(P108) 
 
Tin Whisker Mitigation: from Single Layer to Multilayer 
Ting Liu1, Dongyan Ding1, Yu Hu2, Yihua Gong2 
1Shanghai Jiao Tong University, CHINA 
2Corporate Technology, Siemens Ltd., CHINA 
  
 Session II-a Materials & Processing (2) (Room A) 
 Chair: C Bailey, Greenwich; Co-chair: Tracy Liu, NAMI 
09:00-09:20 
(P104*) 
Parametric Modeling Study of Basic Electrodeposition in Microvias 
Nadezhda Strusevich, Mayur Patel, Christopher Bailey 
University of Greenwich, UK 
 
09:20-09:40 
(P002+) 
 
Effect of the Lattice Mismatch between Copper Thin-film Interconnection Base Material on 
the Crystallinity of the Interconnection  
Chuanhong Fan1, Osamu Asai1, Ken Suzuki2, Hideo Miura2 
1Dept. of Nanomechanics, Graduate School of Eng., Tohoku University, JAPAN 
2Fracture and Reliability Research Institute, Graduate School of Eng., Tohoku University, 
JAPAN 
 
09:40-10:00 
(P112+) 
A Facile Fabrication method of Silver Lines on PET with Good Adhesion at Room 
Temperature 
Yunxia Jin, Dunying Deng, Yuanrong Cheng, Fei Xiao 
Fudan University, CHINA 
 
10:00-10:20 
(P015) 
Dependence of packing fraction and surface area of the particles in the composites made by 
the combination of aluminum oxide and nitride for improving the thermal conductivity 
Seran Choi, Yuseon Heo, Myeongjin Kim, Yongseon Hwang, Jooheon Kim 
Chung-Ang University, KOREA 
 
10:20-10:40 
(P049+) 
Effect of Functionalized Multiwalled Carbon Nanotubes on the Coefficient of Thermal 
Expansion of Bismaleimide-Triazine resins (BT resins) 
Xiaoliang Zeng1, Maobai Lai1, Shuhui Yu1, Rong Sun1, Jianbin Xu2, Ching-Ping Wong1,2 
1Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, CHINA 
2The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hongkong, CHINA 
 
10:40-11:00   Tea Break 
 
11:00-11:20 
(P091*) 
Effects of Surface Treatments on the Performance of High Thermal Conductive Die Attach 
Adhesives (DAAs) 
Chenmin LIU, Dong Lu, Xianxin LANG, Ashley Choi, Peter WM Lee 
Nano and Advanced Materials Institute  
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, CHINA 
 
- 16 - 
 
12:00-12:20 
(P061) 
Ultrasonic Inspection of Package Internal Defects Considering Multiple Interface Effects 
Minshu Zhang1, C. C. Jeffery. Lo2 , Shi-Wei Ricky Lee2 
1Xiamen University of Technology, CHINA      
2 Hong Kong University of Science and Technology,Hong Kong, CHINA 
 
 Session II-c LED & Power Electronics (1) (Room C) 
 Chair: MY Tsai, Chang Gung; Co-chair: Lilin Liu, SYSU 
09:00-09:20 
(P037*) 
The Role of Thermal Properties of PCB Substrates in Heat Dissipation of LED Back Light 
Bars 
C. Y. Tang1, J. J. Huang1, Y. L. Peng1, M. Y. Tsai1, and Peter Liang2  
1Chang Gung University, TAIWAN  
2Nanya Plastics Co.,TAIWAN 
 
09:20-09:40 
(P109*) 
Color Consistence Improvement in LED packages 
Cell K.Y. Wong1, Stanley Y.Y. Leung1, Lin Niu 1, Gongqi Fan1, Xiang Zhou1, Cadmus C.A. 
Yuan2, Guoqi Zhang2, Yanglin Li4, Menglong Tu4 , Shaofang Wang4 
1State Key Laboratory of Solid State Lighting (Changzhou Base), CHINA 
2State Key Laboratory of Solid State Lighting, Haidian, CHINA 
3DIMES, Delft University of Technology, the Netherlands 
4Ledman Optoelectronic Co. Ltd,  CHINA 
 
09:40-10:00 
(P039) 
A method for geometry control of phosphor layer in high-power white LEDs by package 
structure 
Huai Zheng, Xing Fu, Bulong Wu, Sheng Liu, and Xiaobing Luo 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, CHINA 
 
10:00-10:20 
(P068) 
LED Wafer Level Packaging with a Remote Phosphor Cap 
Huihua Liu, Rong Zhang, Jeffery C. C. Lo, S. W. Ricky Lee 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong 
 
10:20-10:40 
(P025) 
A Thermal Performance Assessment of Panel Type Packaging (PTP) Technology for High 
Efficiency LED 
Yen-Fu Su1, Yu-Hsiang Yang1, Wen-Kun Yang2, Kuo-Ning Chiang1,3 
1National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, TAIWAN 
2King Dragon International Inc., British Virgin Islands 
3National Center for High-Performance Computing 
 
10:40-11:00 Tea Break 
11:00-11:20 
(P064*) 
High Bright White LED Packaging Systems Using Unique Vacuum Printing Technology 
(VPES) 
Atsushi Okuno, Yoshiteru Miyawaki, Dongxu Wang, Osamu Tanaka 
SANYU REC CO.,LTD,JAPAN 
 
11:20-11:40 
(P093*) 
The investigation of LED’s reliability through highly accelerated stress testing methods 
Lilin Liu, Jianfu Yang, Gang Wang 
Sun Yat-Sen University,, CHINA 
 
11:40-12:00 
(P099) 
Convenient fabrication of Composites with Aqueous Synthesized Quantum Dots for LED 
Encapsulation 
Lei Zhang, Haibin Chen, Jingshen Wu 
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, CHINA 
 
12:00-12:20 
(P105+) 
White LED devices with nearly uniform space-color distribution through nanoparticle usage 
Mingyang Wu, Lilin Liu, Gang Wang 
Sun Yat-Sen University,CHINA 
 
 
 
- 18 - 
 
 Session III-a Interconnect & Bonding (Room A) 
 Chair: Ken Cheung, ASM; Co-chair: YH Kim, Hanyang 
14:00-14:20 
(P090*) 
 
Process Considerations of TC-NCP Fine-pitch Copper Pillar FC Bonding 
Y.M. Cheung, Ka San Lam, Giuseppe Y. Mak, Dewen Tian, Ming Li 
ASM Technology Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China 
 
14:20-14:40 
(P110) 
 
Low-Temperature Bonding Method Based On Metallic Microcone Array For Interconnection 
Application 
Qin Lu, Zhuo Chen, Liming Gao,* Ming Li 
State Key Laboratory of Metal Matrix Composites, Key Laboratory for Thin Film and 
Microfabrication Technology of the Ministry of Education, School of Material Science and 
Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China 
 
14:40-15:00 
(P006) 
 
Low Temperature Bonding of Piezoelectric Single Crystal Materials for Miniaturized High 
Resolution Ultrasound Transducers 
Jack Hoy-Gig Ng1, Robert T. Ssekitoleko2, Hoang-Vu Nguyen3, Knut E. Aasmundtveit3, 
Christine E. M. Démoré4, Sandy Cochran4 and Marc P.Y. Desmulliez1 
1MIcroSystems Engineering Centre (MISEC), Institute of Sensors, Signals and Systems (ISSS), 
Heriot-Watt University, Scotland, UK 
2Department of Bioengineering, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland, UK 
3Department of Micro and Nano Systems Technology (IMST), Vestfold University College, 
Norway 
4Institute for Medical Science and Technology (IMSaT), University of Dundee, Scotland, UK 
 
15:00-15:20 
(P028+) 
 
An Atomistic Scale Study on Solidification in Ultrafine Interconnects 
Zhiyong Wu1, Zhiheng Huang1, Paul Conway2, and Qingfeng Zeng3 
1School of Physics and Engineering, Sun Yat-sen University,  China 
2Wolfson School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, Loughborough University, 
U.K. 
3School of Materials Science and Engineering, Northwestern Polytechnical University, China 
 
15:20-15:40 
 
Tea Break 
 
15:40-16:00 
(P017+) 
Development of low temperature Chip-on-Flex (COF) bonding process of 100℃ 
Sun-Chul Kim and Young-Ho Kim 
Division of Materials Science & Engineering, Hanyang University, Korea 
 
16:00-16:20 
(P085) 
 
Development and Qualification of Copper Wire Bond Process for Automotive Applications 
Pey Fang Hiew, Yin Kheng Au, Poh Leng Eu 
Freescale Semiconductor (M) Sdn. Bhd., Malaysia 
 
16:20-16:40 
(P086) 
 
Importance of Cu/Al Intermetallic Coverage in Copper Wire Bonding with Sensitive Pad 
Structure  
Tracy Jia Lin Yap, Yin Kheng Au, Poh Leng Eu 
Freescale Semiconductor, (M) Sdn. Bhd., Malaysia 
 
16:40-17:00 
(P088) 
 
Systematic Pd Cu Wire Bond Recipe Development Flow for Successful Qualification Result 
Law Lai Cheng, Wong Boh Kid, Hiew Pey Fang, Eu Poh Leng 
Freescale Semiconductor, (M) Sdn. Bhd.,  Malaysia 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 20 - 
 
 Session III-c LED & Power Electronics (2) (Room C) 
 Chair: T Onishi, Grand Joint; Co-chair: BJ Lwo 
14:00-14:20 
(P084*) 
 
LED Device & SSL packaging trends study by x-ray analysis  
T. Onishi  
Grand Joint Technology Ltd. 
 
14:20-14:40 
(P096) 
 
Thermal performance and placement design of LED array package on PCB 
K.C. Yung, H.M. Liem, H.S. Choy 
Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 
Hong Kong 
 
14:40-15:00 
(P097+) 
 
Anomaly Detection for Chromaticity shift of High Power White LED with Mahalanobis 
Distance Approach 
Jiajie Fan1, Kam-Chuen Yung1, Michael Pecht2 
1PCB Technology Center, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, The Hong Kong 
Polytechnic University, Hong Kong  
2Center for Advanced Life Cycle Engineering, University of Maryland, USA 
 
15:00-15:20 
(P044) 
 
Study on Thermal Design due to Downsizing of Power Module Using Coupled 
Electrical-Thermal-Mechanical Analysis  
Yasutaka YAMADA, Qiang YU, Tomohiro TAKAHASHI Yusuke TAKAGI  
Yokohama National University, Japan 
 
15:20-15:40 
 
Tea Break 
 
15:40-16:00 
(P053) 
 
A Study on Evaluation Method of New Packaging Structure for High-Temperature Power 
Device 
Akihiro HIGUCHI, Qiang YU, Toshikazu OSHIDARI, Mingliang CUI 
Yokohama National University, Japan 
 
16:00-16:20 
(P081) 
 
Novel Substrate Technology for IPM (Intelligent Power Module) Applications: Structural, 
Thermal and Electrical Characteristics 
Kwang-Soo Kim1, Young-Ki Lee1, Young-Hoon Kwak1, Ji Hyun Park1, Job Ha1, Ga-Young 
Shin2, Bum-Seok Suh1 
1Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co., LTD., Suwon, Korea 
2Department of Chemistry, Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea 
 
16:20-16:40 
(P119) 
 
IGBT Power Module Packaging for EV Applications 
Chun-Kai, Liu, Yu-Lin Chao, June-Chien Chang, Wei Li, Chih-Ming Tzeng, Rong-Chang 
Fang, Kuo-Shu Kao, Tao-Chih Chang, Chang-Sheng Chen, Wei-Chung Lo 
Electronics and Opto-Electronics Laboratories/Industrial Technology Research Institute, 
Taiwan 
 
16:40-17:00 
(P082) 
 
Packaging of SiC-SBD for High Temperature Operation 
Zarel Valdez-Nava1,2, Masahiro Kozako3, Sorin Dinculescu1,2, Ichiro Omura3, Masayuki 
Hikita3, Thierry Lebey1,2 
1Université de Toulouse, France. 
2CNRS, France. 
3Kyushu Institute of Technology, Japan  
 
17:00-17:20 
(P118) 
 
Dual-phase solid-liquid interdiffusion bonding, a solution for the die attachment of WBG 
power module assembly 
Tao-Chih Chang, Jing-Yao Chang, Tung-Han Chuang 
Industrial Technology Research Institute, Taiwan 
  
 
 
 
- 22 - 
 
LOCATION OF BANQUET 
 
(Buses will be arranged to leave from Novotel at 17:30 on 15 December for the Jumbo Floating Restaurant. For those who 
would like to go there by yourselves, please note that the banquet will start at 18:30.) 
 
 
 
HKUST MAP 
 
Short Course 
Venue Welcome 
Reception 
Banquet 
Venue 
- 24 - 
 
LOCATION OF NP360 CABLE CAR STATION 
 
 
 
http://www.np360.com.hk/en/visitors-information/np360-transport-info.html 
 
 
  
The MTR is regarded as one of the world's leading railways with an extensive network. 
The system covers 81 stations on the Kwun Tong, Tsuen Wan, Island, Tung Chung, 
Tseung Kwan O, East Rail, West Rail, Ma On Shan and Disneyland Resort lines. The 
MTR also operates the Airport Express and the Light Rail Transit which runs in the north 
west New Territories. Visitors can enjoy a convenient and comfortable trip all the way 
from the heart of Central and Causeway Bay to the New Territories and Lantau Island. 
Tung Chung Cable Car Terminal is adjacent to MTR's Tung Chung Station. It is a 
two-minute walk from Exit B of the station. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會國外研討會心得報告 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               撰寫人：李昌駿 
               單位名稱：中原大學機械工程學系 
               出國地點：比利時(Belgium) 
               出國日期：2013/03/10 ~ 2013/03/13 
 
 
 
 
 二、 口頭論文報告過程與心得： 
去年度此研討會為在法國舉辦時，本計畫的研究成果所發表的二
篇論文，現皆已經被 SCI 期刊 Microelectronic Engineering 所接受
（Reject比率約為 50%）。而今年該研討會所接受的研討會論文約 100
多篇(共來自 15個國家)，其中 60多篇為用海報方式發表(Poster)，其
餘的 60 多篇論文則以口頭報告的方式發表，而本計畫此次所投出的
三篇論文皆被接受，且其中一篇論文“Reliability Enhancements of 
Chip-on-Chip Package with Layout Designs of Microbumps”，很榮幸
地被選為在三維整合技術(3D Integration technology)的項目進行口頭
發表，且為台灣地區唯一被選為口頭發表的論文，在世界著名的比利
時 IMEC先進微電子技術研發中心的總部所在區域舉辦之研討會，仍
可有此機會實屬不易。此報告之附件為本次會議的程序集
（Proceeding）及計畫所發表三篇論文的全文內容。會議發表此口頭
論文之主要內容為，延續去年所提出的晶圓級底填膠(Wafer Level 
Underfill Film，WLUF)應用於加強微凸塊可靠度的計畫研究，另外設
計 Dummy 微凸塊的配置，期以提高三維晶片堆疊封裝結構之組裝可
靠度，降低翹曲量。並利用 Dummy 微凸塊的設計，提高關鍵區域之
微凸塊的可靠度壽命。而為了完成上述的研究需求，本論文亦引進一
最佳化方法，提供上述 Dummy微凸塊配置的設計參考建議。 
 發表時間約為二十分鐘，發表結束後的問題討論，有學者提出WLUF
在微凸塊組裝時使用熱壓法時，其薄膜厚度的選擇是否有何製程上考
量與建議？我的回答是，基本上，WLUF的厚度約會稍微比微凸塊的
高度再厚一些，如此在熱壓過程中，WLUF可以充分地填充滿微凸塊
陣列間，然而，在製程上的考量是，熱壓的力量需如何決定，這點則
可以利用不同的力量進行試驗，用以發現最佳的製程參數值。此外，
與會人員亦發問第二個問題為，要增加多少個 Dummy 微凸塊，堆疊
晶片之組裝平整度才可以依舊保持住？我的回答是，依據我們這篇的
研究論文結果顯示，在 Dummy 微凸塊間距為 30 微米，且在關鍵微
凸塊的周圍依序擺放三個，則組裝平整度可維持於以內 70 奈米，這
個效果已是非常地好。此外，在會議進行中間休息時間，亦有相關研
究學者到場，諸如中國科學院微電子研究中心副研究員羅軍博士、日
本名古屋大學、以及東京大學教授，彼此也互相討論與交換研究心
得，如本人於本次會議期間認識上述名古屋大學的教授，其專長為破
壞力學與基礎疲勞試驗。，彼此交流討論一下奈米晶體於破裂成長方
向分析上之的模擬技術與可能方向。而本人亦感到此會議有增進參與
者對此研究的興趣相互討論，進而對於彼此的研究增加更多的刺激與
新的思考。 
 
 三、 結論 
本次會議為世界重要的半導體後段製程技術之研討會會議，其中
一場重要的 Session 為矽穿孔與三維晶片堆疊封裝技術
(3D-Integration)，這是因為三維晶片(3D ICs )封裝確實為目前一高整
合與微小化的解決方案：因此，三維整合技術遂成為新的熱門研究目
標。而利用矽穿孔接合式技術則提供垂直導通之方式用以接合晶片堆
疊，以達到三維晶片間的電子訊號互連。此一技術能夠以更低的成本
有效提高系統的整合度與效能。然，對應之三維晶片封裝結構於接合
組裝過程往往產生嚴重之可靠度問題，這為目前封裝研究上十分重要
的研究課題。本次會議所提出之多篇論文對於未來電子元件材料與因
應之先進封裝技術對於元件微小化，提出相當大的助益之見解與參考
價值。 
在此特別感謝國科會提供經費上的補助，使得我能順利參與
MAM2013 國際研討會的機會，MAM2013 國際研討會是每年一次在
歐洲各國輪流舉辦的重要國際研討會，明年此會議將在德國舉辦。參
與此研討會除可以增進本人對於下一世代封裝專業技術與目前熱門
之半導體技術相關知識外，亦可與國外目前從事相關研究之科學家與
先進學者進行的交流溝通。 
     
MAM2013 
MARCH 10-13, LEUVEN, BELGIUM 
    
PRACTICAL INFORMATION 
 
CONFERENCE LOCATION 
Promotion/Jubileum room 
University Hall 
Naamsestraat 22, 
3000 Leuven 
 
ACCESS FROM TOWN 
 
  
CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
 
Sunday March 10, 2013 
Registration  from 17:00 till 19:00  
 
Monday  March 11, 2013 
CONFERENCE OPENING             PROMOTIEZAAL 
 
Session Chairs: C. J. Wilson, Imec and C. Detavernier Ghent University 
07:30 - 08:30  Conference registration opening 
08:30 - 08:45  Welcome 
K1         08:45 - 09:15  Keynote 
The challenges of interconnect scaling: The risks and our 
approaches to tackling them  
     J. S. Clarke 
Components Research, Intel Corporation,  2501 NW 229th Ave, Hillsboro, OR 
97124 
 
K2         09:15 - 09:45  Keynote 
                    Challenges in 14nm and Future BEOL (Back-End-of-Line) Technologies 
                   L. Clevenger 
          IBM, USA 
 
09:45 - 10:10  COFFEE BREAK – Jubileumzaal  
 
SESSION 1    ADVANCED MEMORY         PROMOTIEZAAL 
 
Session Chairs: P. Fazan, Micron and T. Numata, Toshiba 
 
AM 10:10 - 10:40  INVITED TALK 
Redox-based Resistive Switching Memory 
     V. Rana 
RWTH Aachen University and Forschungszentrum Jülich, Germany 
 
AM1 10:40 - 11:00 Structural and electrical characteristics of MOCVD-grown In-Sb-
Te chalcogenides for innovative phase change memory 
C. Wiemer,  R. Fallica, T. Stoycheva, M.Longo 
Laboratorio MDM, CNR-IMM, via C. Olivetti 2, 20864 Agrate Brianza (MB), Italy 
AC1 13:50 - 14:10 Scanning Probe Microscopy as a scalpel to probe filament 
formation in RRAM devices 
U. Celanoa,b, L. Gouxa, K. Opsomera, M. Iapichinoa, A. Franqueta, 
I. Hoflijka, M. Jurczaka and W. Vandervorsta,b 
a Imec, kapeldreef 75, B-3001 Leuven Belgium  
b KU Leuven, Department of Physics and Astronomy (IKS), Celestijnenlaan200D, 
3001 Leuven, Belgium 
 
AC2 14:10 - 14:30 Correlations between stress-induced failure and nanostructural 
defects at the origin of local dielectric breakdown in non-
volatile memories 
E. Faivre1,2, V. Della Marca1,2, R. Llido2,3, L. Fares2, M. Putero1 and 
C. Muller1 
1 Laboratoire IM2NP, UMR CNRS 7334, Aix-Marseille Université 13397 
Marseille, France  
2 STMicroelectronics, Avenue Célestin Coq, 13106 Rousset, France  
3 Laboratoire IMS, 351 cours de la Libération, 33405 Talence, France 
 
AC3 14:30 - 14:50 Adhesion improvement for MEMS-use Cu/glass metallization 
by inserting nano-precision metallic oxide layers 
  M. Watanabe, A. Teraoka, and E. Kondoh 
Interdisciplinary of Graduate School of Medicine and Engineering, University of 
Yamanashi, 4-3-11 Takeda, Kofu, Yamanashi, 400-8511, Japan 
 
 14:50 - 15:15 COFFEE BREAK – Jubileumzaal  
 
AC4 15:15 - 15:35 Evaluation for interface strength fluctuations induced by 
inhomogeneous grain structure of Cu line in LSI Interconnects 
  C. Chena, N. Shishidoa,b, S. Kamiyaa,b, K. Koiwaa,b, H. Satoa,b, M. 
Omiyab,c, M. Nishidaa,b, T. Suzukid, T. Nakamurad, T. Nokuob,e and 
T. Suzukib,e 
a Nagoya Institute of Technology, Gokiso-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 466-8555, 
Japan  
b Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology, JST, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 
102-0075, Japan  
c Keio University, 3-14-1 Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama, 223-8522, Japan  
d Fujitsu laboratories Ltd., 10-1 Morinosato-Wakamiya, Atsugi, 243-0197, Japan  
e JEOL Ltd., 3-1-2 Musashino, Akishima, 196-0022, Japan 
 
AC5 15:35 - 15:55 Combining 4-point-bending and spectroscopic ellipsometry 
techniques for analysis of crack propagation in SiCOH films 
  M. Hecker, M. Hensel, M. Zawischa, and M. Weisheit 
GLOBALFOUNDRIES Dresden Module One, Wilschdorfer Landstr. 101, D-01109 
Dresden, Germany 
 
  
P1-06 Study of low temperature MOCVD deposition of TiN barrier layer for copper 
diffusion in high aspect ratio through silicon vias 
L. Djomenia, T. Mouriera, S. Minoreta, S. Fadlounc , S. Maitrejeana, S. Burgessb, A. 
Priceb and D. Mathiotd 
a CEA, LETI, MINATEC Campus, 17 rue des Martyrs, Grenoble Cedex 9, 38054, France 
b SPTS, Ringland Way, Newport, Gwent , NP18 2TA, UK. 
c SPTS SAS, Inovallée - Bat B 445, rue Lavoisier, Montbonnot, 38330, France. 
d Institut d'Electronique du Solide et des Systèmes (InESS, Université de Strasbourg and CNRS), 23 rue du 
Loess, Strasbourg cedex 2, B.P. 20, 67037, France 
 
P1-07 Technology Challenges for Leading Edge Microbump Applications 
P. Jaenena, J. Slabbekoorna, A. Miller a, J. Van Puymbroecka, W. W. Flackb, 
M. Ranjanb, G. Kenyon b and R. Hsiehb 
a IMEC, Kapeldreef 75 B-3001 Leuven, Belgium 
b Ultratech, Inc., 3050 Zanker Road, San Jose, CA 95134 USA 
 
AVANCED CHARACTERIZATION 
P2-01 Investigating the effects of sandwich thickness asymmetry on interface toughness 
measurement in the 4-point bending test 
I. Hartwiga, B. Brämerb, M. Heckerc and S. E. Schulzd 
a Chemnitz University of Technology, Center for Microtechnologies, Reichenhainer Str. 70, Chemnitz, D-
09126, Germany 
b Fraunhofer ENAS, Micromaterials Center, Technologie-Campus 3, Chemnitz, D-09126, Germany 
c Center for Complex Analysis, GLOBALFOUNDRIES Dresden Module One, Wilschdorfer Landstr. 101, 
Dresden, D-01109, Germany 
dFraunhofer ENAS, Technologie-Campus 3, Chemnitz, D-09126, Germany 
 
P2-02 Determination of heat transfer coefficient by using thermomechanical sensor and 
in-situ SEM nano-probing 
B. Arrazata, S. Orellanabc, C. Riveroc, P. Fornarac, A. Di-Giacomoc and K. Inalb 
a Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Mines de Saint-Etienne, CMP, 880, route de Mimet, 13541 Gardanne, 
France 
b Ecole Nationale Supérieure des Mines de Paris, CEMEF, 1, rue Claude Daunesse, 06904 Sophia Antipolis 
Cedex, France 
c STMicroelectronics, TR&D, 190, avenue Célestin Coq, 13106 Rousset Cedex, France 
 
P2-04 Ni Silicide Nanowires analysis by atom probe tomography 
M. El Kousseifia, F. Pancieraa, K. Hoummadaa, M. Descoinsa, P. Periwalb, T. Baronb  and 
D. Mangelincka 
a IM2NP, Aix Marseille Université-CNRS, Faculté de saint Jérôme, 13397 Marseille, France 
b LTM, UMR 5129, CEA-Grenoble, CNRS, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054 Grenoble, France 
 
P2-05 Tuning the Work Function of Hafnium Silicides: a High Throughput Study 
A. Davida, B. E. Haydena, C. J. B. Viana, D. C. A. Smitha, C. Mormichea, M. Changb, M. S. 
Chenb, S. Gandikotab, S. Gangulib, S. Hungb, X. Lub, A. Noorib 
a Ilika Technologies, Kenneth Dibben House, University of Southampton Science Park, Southampton, 
SO167NS, UK 
b Applied Materials Inc, 974 East Arques Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA, 94085, USA 
 
ADVANCED METALS & DIELECTRICS 
 
P4-01  Advances in Semiconductor metallization technologies for new applications and 
device scaling 
R. Preisser 
Atotech GmbH Berlin, Germany 
 
P4-02 Pore sealing strategies to close mesoporous low-k materials 
F. Goethalsa, I. Van Driesschea and Pascal Van Der Voorta 
a Inorganic and Physical Chemistry, Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281 (S3), 9000 Gent, Belgium 
 
P4-03 Role of oxygen and cuprous ions in copper electroplating 
L. Yanga,b, W. Marchalc, A. Radisica, J. Deconinckb, P. Vereeckena,c 
a IMEC, Kapeldreef 75, 3001 Leuven, Belgium 
b Department of Electric Engineering and Energy Technology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 1050 Elsene, 
Belgium 
c Centre for Surface Chemistry and Catalysis, KU Leuven, Kasteelpark Arenberg 23/2461, 3001 Leuven, 
Belgium 
 
P4-04 Development and evaluation of a-SiCO:H films as Cu and moisture diffusion barriers 
with a low dielectric constant, for advanced interconnects 
E. Van Besien, A. Singh, Y. Barbarin, P. Verdonck and M. Baklanov 
IMEC, Kapeldreef 75, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium 
 
P4-05  Electroless deposition of Co(W,P) thin films on amino-terminated titanium nitride 
activated by gold nano-particles 
M. Malkia, A. Rozenblat-Razab, A. Duhina, A. Inberga, D. Horvitzb and Y. Shacham-
Diamanda 
a Department of Physical Electronics, Electrical Engineering, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel 
b Micron Semiconductors Israel Ltd. Qiryat-Gat 82109, Israel 
 
P4-06 Development of Ag Metallization with TiN Diffusion Barrier 
C-W. Hoa, R-J. Chunga and C-A. Jongb 
a Institute of Chemical engineering, National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
b National Nano Device Laboratories, Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
P4-07  On the Reducing Surface Energy for Silver Metallization on TiN/Si 
Y-G. Leea and C-A. Jongb 
a Department of Automation Engineering and Institute of Mechatronoptic Systems, Chien-Kuo Institute of 
Technology, Changhua 50094, Taiwan 
b National Nano Device Laboratories, No.26, Prosperity Road 1, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
 
P4-08 The Significance of Suppression Strength for the Filling of Sub 30 nm Features by 
Direct Plating. 
M. Nagar1,2, A. Radisic1, K. Strubbe2 and P. M. Vereecken1,3 
1 IMEC vzw, B-3001, Leuven, Belgium 
2 Department of Inorganic and Physical Chemistry, Ghent University, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium 
3 Center for Surface Chemistry and Catalysis, KUL, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium 
 
P4-17  Adhesion Strength of CVD-Cu with CVD or ALD-Co(W) for A Single Film Working as 
Cu Diffusion Barrier and Adhesion Layer in Future ULSI Interconnects 
K. Shima, H. Shimizu, T. Momose, and Y. Shimogaki 
Dept. of Materials Engineering, The Univ. of Tokyo, 7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan 
 
NANO & NOVEL DEVICES 
 
P5-01  Can bio veins be used as interconnects? 
E. Kondoh, H. Mochizuki and M. Watanabe 
University of Yamanashi, Faculty of Engineering, Kofu 400-8511, Yamanashi, Japan 
 
P5-02  Electrochemical capacitance, wettability and surface functional groups of Carbon 
Nanosheets (CNS) 
S. Deheryana,b, D.J. Cotta, P.W. Mertensa, M. Heynsa,b and P. M. Vereeckena,b 
a imec vzw, B-3001, Leuven, Belgium 
b University of Leuven, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium 
 
P5-03  Electrical properties of Carbon Nanotube Interconnects 
H. Fiedlera,*, M. Toaderb, S. Hermanna, M. Rennaua, M. Hietscholdb, S. E. Schulza,c, T. 
Gessnera,c 
a Chemnitz University of Technology, Center for Microtechnologies, Chemnitz, 09126 Germany 
b Chemnitz University of Technology, Institute of Physics, Chemnitz, 09107, Germany 
c Fraunhofer Institute for Electronic Nano Systems, Chemnitz, 09126, Germany 
 
P5-04 High density CNT growth by controlling the slope of temperature profile 
A. Kawabata, T. Murakami, M. Nihei and N. Yokoyama 
Collaborative Research Team Green Nanoelectronics Center (GNC) 
National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) 
West 7A, Onogawa 16-1, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8569, Japan 
 
P5-05  Nanosized materials formed by deposition of metals on/in porous silicon: 
fabrication, properties and applications 
H. Bandarenkaa, A. Dolgyia, S. Redkoa, A. Klyshkoa, M. Balucanib, 
P. Nenzib, A. Panarinc, S. Terekhovc, K. Yanushkevichd, S. Prishepaa, V. Bondarenkoa 
a Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics, P. Brovka 6, Minsk, 220013, Belarus 
b Rome University “Sapienza”, Via Eudossiana 18, Rome, 00184, Italy 
c B.I.. Stepanov Institute of Physics, NASB, Nezalezhnasti Ave., 68, Minsk, 220072, Belarus 
d Scientific Practical Materials Research Center, NASB, P. Brovka st., 27, Minsk, 220072, Belarus 
 
P5-06  Thermo-electro finite element analysis and characteristic of thermoelectric 
generator with intermetallic compound 
L-L. Liaoa,b, M-J. Daia, C-K. Liua and K-N. Chiangb,c,* 
a Electronic and Optoelectronics Research Laboratories, Industrial Technology Research Institute 
b Department of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University 
c National Center for High-Performance Computing 
 
 
 
P6-04 A Multilevel sub-modeling approach to evaluate 3D IC packaging induced stress on 
hybrid interconnect structures 
M. Lofranoa, M. Gonzaleza, B. Vandeveldea and Z. Tőkeia 
a Imec, Kapeldreef, 75, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium 
 
P6-05  Effect of via shape on thermal stress in dual-damascene Cu interconnects 
L. Chen 
School of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Science and Technology Beijing, 
Beijing100083, China 
 
P6-06  Effect of surface finish on failure behavior induced by electromigration in eutectic 
Sn-Bi solder joints 
J-H. Kim, Y-C. Lee and S-B. Jung 
Department of school of Advanced Materials Science & Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, 300 
Cheoncheon-Dong, Jangan-Gu, Suwon, Gyeinggi-Do 440-746, Republic of Korea 
 
P6-07  Second level joint failures due to excessive warpage of advanced IC packages 
B. Debeckera, B. Vandeveldea , Geert Willemsa and Bart Allaertb 
a Imec, Kapeldreef 75, Leuven, B-3001, Belgium 
b Connect Group, Frankrijklaan 22 - 8970 Poperinge, Belgium 
 
P6-08  Crystal orientation effect on local adhesion strength of the interface between a 
damascene copper line and the insulation layer 
N. Shishidoa,b, Y. Ouraa, H. Satoa,b, S. Kamiyaa,b, K. Koiwaa,b, M. Omiyab,c, 
M. Nishidaa,b, T. Suzukid, T. Nakamurad, T. Nokuob,e and T. Suzukib,e 
a Nagoya Institute of Technology, Gokiso-cho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 466-8555, Japan 
b Japan Science and Technology Agency, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 102-0075, Japan 
c Keio University, 3-14-1 Hiyoshi, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama, 223-8522, Japan 
d Fujitsu laboratories Ltd., 10-1 Morinosato-Wakamiya, Atsugi, 243-0197, Japan 
e JEOL Ltd., 3-1-2 Musashino, Akishima, 196-0022, Japan 
 
SILICIDES, GATE STACK AND CONTACTS 
 
P7-01  Research on the Degradation of AlGaInP Ultra High Brightness LEDs Influenced by 
Ohmic Metal Design 
C. F. Huanga,b,c, Y. F. Sua,b, C. B. Linc, and K. N. Chianga,b,d* 
a Advanced Microsystem Packaging and Nano-Mechanics Research Lab, HsinChu 300, Taiwan, ROC 
b Dept. of Power Mechanical Engineering National Tsing Hua University, HsinChu, 300, Taiwan, ROC 
c EPISTAR Corp., HsinChu, 300, Taiwan, ROC 
d National Center for High-Performance Computing, National Applied Research Laboratories, 300, 
Taiwan, ROC 
 
P7-02 Epitaxial growth of NiSiGe on compressively strained SiGe layers 
L. J. Liua,b, L. Knolla, S. Wirtha, D. Xua,b, G. Musslera, D. Bucaa, Z. F. Dib, M. Zhangb, 
Q. T. Zhaoa, S. Mantla 
a. Peter Gruenberg Institute 9, Forschungzentrum Juelich, 52425 Juelich, Germany 
b. Shanghai Institute of Microsystem and Information Technology, CAS, Shanghai, 200050,China 
 
P7-10  Early growth studies of cobalt germanides on Ge(001) surface by means of SPM 
technique 
T. Grzelaa, W. Koczorowskib,c, R. Czajkab, G. Capellinia,d, N. Cursonc and T. 
Schroedera,e 
a IHP, Im Technologiepark 25, Frankfurt (Oder), 15236, Germany 
b Institute of Physics, Poznan University of Technology, Nieszawska 13A, Poznan, 60-965, Poland 
c London Centre for Nanotechnology, University College London, 17-19 Gordon Street, London, England 
d Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Roma Tre, Via della Vasca Navale 84, Roma, 00146, Italy 
e BTU Cottbus, Konrad-Zuse Str. 1, Cottbus, 03046, Germany 
 
P7-11  Ni(Pt) silicide with improved thermal stability for application in DRAM PERI or RMG 
devices 
T. Schram, A. Spessota, R. Ritzenthaler, E. Rosseel, C. Caillata, N. Horiguchi and P. 
Fazana 
Imec, Kapeldreef 75, 3001 Leuven, Belgium 
a MICRON-Belgium Kapeldreef 75, 3001 Leuven, Belgium 
 
P7-12  Ni metal electroless plating deposition processes for trenched silicidation 
C. Fournier, F. Gaillard, F. Nemouchi and P. Gergaud 
CEA-Leti, Minatec Campus, 17 rue des martyrs – F38054 Grenoble Cedex 9 
 
P7-13  Ni silicide formation induced by ion beam intermixing in thin Ni(Pt) films on Si (100) 
J. Demeulemeestera, P. Desjardinsa, J. Jordan-Sweetb, A. Kellockc and C. Lavoieb 
a RQMP and Département de Génie Physique, École Polytechnique de Montréal, P. O. Box 6079, Station 
Centre-Ville, Montréal, Québec, H3C 3A7 Canada 
b IBM T. J. Watson research Center, Yorktown Heights, New York 10598, USA 
c IBM Almaden Research Center, San Jose, California 95120, USA 
 
SOCIAL EVENT 
 
 
 17:45 - 18:30 Travel to Brewery 
  
 18:30 -  20:00 Brewery 
  
3D1 10:25 - 10:45 Reliability-Based Design Guidance of 3D ICs Packaging with 
Wafer-Level Underfill and Dummy Cu/Ni/SnAg Microbumps 
C-C. Leea, P. Ting Lina, K-S. Kaob, R-C. Chengb, C-J. Zhanb, J. 
H. Laub and T-C. Changb 
a Department of Mechanical Engineering, Research and Development Center for 
Microsystem Reliability Chung Yuan Christian University, 200 Chungpei Road, 
Chungli City, Taoyuan County, Taiwan 
b Assembly and Reliability Technology Department, Industrial Technology 
Research Institute, Hsinchiu, Taiwan 
 
3D2 10:45 - 11:05 Through Silicon Via Stress Analysis for 3D Integration in 
Microprocessor Technology 
  C. Klewera, M. Heckera, M. Thielea and M. Hensela 
a GLOBALFOUNDRIES Dresden Module One, Wilschdorfer Landstr. 101, D-01109 
Dresden, Germany 
 
3D3 11:05 - 11:25 Periodic Strain Undulation around Through Si Vias in Wafer-On-
Wafer Structures 
N. Taokaa, O. Nakatsukaa, Y. Mizushimab,c, H. Kitadab,c, Y. S. Kimc, 
T. Nakamurab, T. Ohbac and S. Zaimaa 
a Graduate School of Engineering, Nagoya University, Furo-cho, Chikusa-ku, 
Nagoya 464-8603, Japan 
b Fujitsu Laboratories Ltd., 10-1 Morinosato-Wakamiya, Atsugi 243-0197, Japan 
c The University of Tokyo, 2-11-16 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan 
 
3D4 11:25 - 11:45 Through Silicon Capacitor co-integrated with TSVs on silicon 
interposer 
  O. Guillera, S. Joblota, Y. Lamyb, A. Farcya, J.F. Carpentiera and E. 
Defayb 
a STMicroelectronics, 850 rue Jean Monnet, Crolles, 38926, France 
b CEA, LETI, Minatec, 17 rue des martyrs, Grenoble, 38054, France 
 
3D5 11:45 - 12:05 RF characterization of the substrate coupling noise between 
TSV and active devices in 3D integrated circuits 
M. Brocardabc, C. Bermondb, T. Lacrevazb, A. Farcya, P. Le Maîtrea, 
P. Leducc, H. Ben Jamaac, S. Chéramyc, N. Sillonc and B. Fléchetb 
a STMicroelectronics, 850 Rue Jean Monnet, 38920 Crolles, France. 
b IMEP-LAHC, Site Chambéry, Université de Savoie - F73376 Le Bourget du Lac 
Cedex, France. 
C CEA, LETI, MINATEC Campus, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054 Grenoble Cedex 9, 
France. 
 
 12:05 - 13:05 LUNCH – Jubileumzaal  
 
  
SC4 15:00 - 15:20 A scenario of the ohmic contact formation of a Ti-Al 
metallization on AlGaN/GaN heterostructure for power 
electronics applications 
D. Bertranda, M. Fayollea, A. Torresa, E. Blanquetb, F. Volpib, 
  V. Delayea, D. Lafonda and E. Morvana. 
a CEA-LETI, MINATEC, 17 rue des Martyrs, 38054 Grenoble, France 
b SIMAP, Grenoble INP-CNRS-UJF, BP 75, 38402 Saint Martin d'Hères, France 
 
SC5 15:20 - 15:40 Effect of increasing Pd concentrations on the Ni silicide 
formation at low temperature: from d-Ni2Si relaxation to Θ-
Ni2Si formation 
  M. Putero and D. Mangelinck 
IM2NP UMR CNRS 7334, Aix Marseille Université, FST St Jérôme, case 142, 
13397 Marseille cedex 20, France 
 
SC6 15:40 - 16:00 Difference in phase nature of Ni silicide contacts on 
source/drain and polycrystalline silicon gate regions in CMOS 
devices 
F. Pancieraa,b , K. Hoummadab, C. Perrinb, R. Pantela, M. 
Descoinsb, M. Gregoirea, M. Juhela and D. Mangelinckb 
a STMicroelectronics, 850, rue Jean Monnet, 38926, Crolles cedex, France 
b IM2NP, Aix Marseille Université, CNRS, Case 142, 13397 Marseille Cedex 20, 
France 
 
SC7 16:00 - 16:20 On the interplay between isomorphous phases and nucleation 
controlled reactions in ternary silicide systems 
A. Schrauwena, C. Detavernierb, K. Temsta and A. Vantommea  
a Instituut voor Kern- en Stralingsfysica, KU Leuven, Celestijnenlaan 200 D, 
3001, Leuven, Belgium 
b Department of Solid State Sciences, Ghent University, 9000, Gent, Belgium 
 
 16:20 - 16:45 COFFEE BREAK – Jubileumzaal  
 
 
SESSION 6     NANO & NOVEL DEVICES         PROMOTIEZAAL 
 
Session Chairs: A. Maestre Caro, Intel and S. Maitrejean, Leti-CEA 
 
NN 16:45 - 17:15 INVITED TALK 
  Application of CNT and graphene in nanoscale electronic 
devices 
  A. Tang and H.S.P. Wong 
  Stanford University, USA 
 
NN2 17:15 - 17:35 Increase Responsivity in Ge1-xSnx QWs photodetectors 
Y. Shimuraa,b,c, F. Gencarellia,c, B. Vincenta, A. Gassenqd,e,, G. 
Roelkensd,e, J. Van Campenhouta, A. Vantommec and R. Looa 
a Imec, Kapeldreef 75, Leuven, 3001, Belgium  
b FWO Pegasus Marie Curie Fellow  
Wednesday March 14, 2013 
SESSION 7     ADVANCED METALS & DIELECTRICS  PROMOTIEZAAL 
 
Session Chairs: S. Schulz, Chemnitz University of Technology, T. Kirimura, Fujitsu and M. Baklanov, 
Imec 
 
MD 08:30 - 9:00 INVITED TALK 
  Chemical Vapor Deposition Processes for Metallization in 
Microelectronics 
  R. G. Gordon 
  Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology and School of Engineering and 
Applied Sciences, Harvard University, 12 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138 
USA 
 
MD1 09:00 - 09:20 Interaction of Al with ALD TiN, TiSiN and TaN for WF-tuning of 
gate metals 
   H.F.W. Dekkersa, T. Wittersa, A. Van Ammela, B. Douharda, J. 
Delmottea, A. Velosoa, T. Schrama, L.P.B. Limab, S. A. Shewa, M. S. 
Chenc, X. Luc, S. Gangulic, Y. Leic, H. Yangc, W. Tangc, X. Fuc, S. 
Gandikotac, A. Nooric, J. Zhouc, S. Villainc, A. Phatakc, N. 
Horiguchia and S. Van Elshochta 
  a Imec, Kapeldreef 75, Leuven, 3001, Belgium.  
  b School of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Center for Semiconductor 
Components, University of Campinas, 13083-970, Brazil.  
  c Applied Materials Inc., 3050 Bowers Ave., Santa Clara, CA 95054, USA. 
 
MD2 09:20 - 09:50 Role of NH3 Feeding Time to Realize High-Quality Nickel Films 
by Hot-Wire-Assisted Atomic Layer Deposition 
  Y. Guangjie, H. Shimizu, T. Momose and Y. Shimogaki 
  Department of Materials Engineering, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo, 113-8656, Japan 
 
MD3 09:50 - 10:20 Plasma-enhanced atomic layer deposition of thin vanadium 
nitride layers as a copper diffusion barrier 
  G. Rampelberga, K. Devloo-Casiera, D. Deduytschea, M. 
Schaekersb, Nicolas Blascoc and C. Detaverniera 
  a Ghent University, Krijgslaan 281 (S1), 9000 Ghent, Belgium  
  b IMEC, Kapeldreef 75, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium  
  c Air Liquide Electronics US, L.P., 46401 Landing Parkway, 94538, Fremont, CA, 
USA 
 
MD4 10:20 - 10:40 Scalability of RuTiN barriers deposited by plasma-enhanced 
atomic layer deposition for advanced interconnects 
  J. Swertsa, Y-K. Siewa, E. Van Besien, Y. Barbarin, J. Boemmels, Z. 
Tökei and S. Van Elshocht 
  Imec vzw Kapeldreef 75, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium 
 
 10:40 - 11:05 COFFEE BREAK – Jubileumzaal  
 
Reliability Enhancements of Chip-on-Chip Package with Layout Designs of 
Microbumps 
 
C.C. Lee1a), K.S. Kao2, R.S. Cheng2, C.J. Zhan2, and T.C. Chang2 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University 
200, Chungpei Rd., Chungli City, Taoyuan County, Taiwan 32023, R.O.C. 
2Assembly and Reliability Technology Department, Electronics and Optoelectronics Research Laboratories, Industrial 
Technology Research Institute  
195 Sec. 4, Chung-Hsing Road, Chutung, Hsinchu 31040, Taiwan, ROC 
a) Corresponding author: changchunlee@cycu.edu.tw, Phone: (886) 3-265-4358, Fax: (886) 3-265-4399 
 
Abstract 
To enhance the assembly quality and mechanical 
reliability of microbumps during the stacking process of 
multiple thin chips and during temperature cycling tests, a 
novel wafer-level underfill (WLUF) fabrication technique has 
been proposed to resolve these problems. However, the 
occurrence of a severely warped condition or gap reduction 
between stacked chips has been observed during WLUF 
assembly with thermal compression. This condition prevents 
the objective achievement of a three-dimensional integrated 
circuit package. To address such an urgent issue, this study 
presents process-oriented stress simulation based on the finite 
element method to determine its root cause. Using a 
comparison with experimental data, results indicate that the 
major influential factors inducing thermomechanical stress 
within a chip-on-chip package are caused by a large 
temperature difference in the mechanical properties and 
process of WLUF. The use of WLUF with a low coefficient 
of thermal expansion and a low Young’s modulus is 
beneficial because it reduces plastic strain of critical 
microbumps. The use of layout designs for microbump arrays 
with arranged dummy joints significantly improves the co-
planarity of the whole packaging structure. The simulated 
predictions indicate that when more than three dummy joints 
are placed near the outermost microbump, the warping 
variation between the packaging center and the chip edge at 
the top surface of a package under a load of a 2.0 kg bonding 
force would be less than 70 nm. Simultaneously, a minimum 
equivalent plastic strain of ~0.87% on the critical microbump 
is obtained during a thermal cycling load. 
 
Key Words: Wafer Level Underfill (WLUF), Microbumps, 
Warpage, FEA, 3D ICs 
 
Introduction 
Three-dimensional (3D) integrated circuit (IC) packaging 
has been given much attention because it possesses several 
advantages over the traditional packaging technology, such as 
its high interconnect density, superior form factor, the 
integration of heterogeneous functions, and desirable 
performance [1]. Multi-chip stacking with a thinning 
procedure is generally implemented using simultaneous Cu–
Cu or Cu–Sn thermocompression and adhesive buffer layer 
bonding [2]. However, this approach is still at the infancy 
stage and must be further developed to meet the reliability 
requirements and corresponding yields of the microelectronic 
industry. Consequently, the promising flip chip bonding 
process combined with the architecture of through-silicon via 
(TSV) is widely utilized in chip-to-chip interconnects of 3D 
integrations [3–4]. Meanwhile, numerous critical reliability 
issues regarding the effects of TSVs and microbumps on 
thermal dissipation [5], joule heating, electromigration, stress-
migration, cracking failure, and the structural warping of a 
stacked chips assembly [6–7] have become severely 
challenging and require urgent resolution [8]. The energy-
partitioning and Coffin–Manson approaches integrated with 
the finite element analysis (FEA) are suggested to estimate the 
thermomechanical reliability of microbumps using the mean 
failure time of microjoints and TSVs, respectively [9]. The 
mechanical properties of filled underfill and bump height are 
the most dominant factors that influence the reliability of 3D-
IC packaging with stacked four chips. The locations of 
microbump-adjacent chips with a high magnitude of inelastic 
strain have become a particular concern caused by the large 
coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) that occurs at this 
condition. Without the underfill, the measured shear strengths 
of bonded chips and microbumps exceed the demand 
specifications [10]. Compared with the dimensional orders of 
flip chip solder bumps, the microbumps dramatically 
decrease, which significantly induces the Ag3Sn production of 
intermetallic compounds (IMC) as Pb-free SnAg solders are 
adopted. Interfacial cracks may be initiated and could grow at 
the locations of IMCs because 3D-IC packaging is subject to 
external stress [11]. To change the thermal stress distribution 
of bonding interface of microbumps and increase crack 
resistance, several Cu pillar bump types were examined by 
FEA [12]. The optimization of microbump layouts could be 
further performed to enhance the reliability of analytic 3D-IC 
packaging structures [13].  
A review of the literature revealed that the use of underfill 
is necessary to improve the lifetime of microbumps. 
Consequently, a wafer-level underfill (WLUF) technique was 
presented to overcome the drawbacks of capillary actions 
used in the traditional underfill processes for a narrow bump 
gap [14–15]. However, the issue of warping during the 
WLUF process influences the subsequent assembly of chip 
stacking and the mechanical reliability of microbumps. To 
investigate this concern, a vehicle for the chip-on-chip 
packaging structure (Fig. 1) is utilized to understand the 
warping induced by chip stacking. Using four microbump 
arrays combined with the WLUF process, a 5.1 mm × 5.1 mm 
top chip is assembled onto a 16 mm × 16 mm bottom chip. 
The detailed sizes of microbumps with a fine pitch of 30 μm 
geometries and components are introduced into an FEM in 
accordance with the loading conditions. The critical 
microbump is notably at the outermost location from the 
packaging center. Thus, the maximum thermal stress/strain 
caused by the CTE mismatch among material components 
occurs on the furthest site of microbump array. All the 
required material properties for the stress simulations are 
listed at Table 1. Here, the IMC and SnAg solders are 
supposed to be multilinear-elastic and nonlinear, respectively, 
to temperature dependence.  
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 3 Specimens and stress models of a package with 
stacking thin chips. (a) Enlarged cross-sectional views close 
to the region of critical bumps and fillet of WLUF. (b) Half-
symmetry of FEM for the packaging structure. 
 
Table 1 Properties of the materials in the proposed nonlinear 
stress simulation. 
Materials Young’s modulus (E) CTE (ppm/℃) Poisson’s Ratio 
Si 169.5 GPa 3 0.28 
Cu 
E = 122 GPa 
Ref. T = 25℃ 
Yield stress = 173 MPa 
ET = 1.2 GPa 
17 0.35 
Passivation 
(Si3N4) 
155 GPa 5 0.28 
Wafer-level 
underfill 6.8GPa@ 25C 53 0.33 
SnAg solder Temperature dependence 22.5 0.4 
IMC 
(Ni3Sn4) 
85.6 GPa 
-40℃:16.3 
25℃:17.6 
50℃:18.1 
125℃:19.3 
0.31 
Ni 186 12.5 0.342 
Al 72 GPa 24 0.36 
 
Several steps of loading conditions are applied to simulate 
the overall thermocompression process of WLUF assembly, 
which is described as follows. 
First, a stress-free FEA status is assumed at 250 °C because of 
the liquid phase behavior presented by WLUF. Therefore, 
elements from the WLUF region are inactive at the simulated 
stage. Consequently, the microbumps exert a compressive 
stress induced by the bonding force; this stress is applied onto 
the top surface of topmost thin chip. Second, WLUF is cured 
at 250 °C under the abovementioned compression. 
Meanwhile, the WLUF phase transforms from liquid to 
completely solid. Thus, the elements associated with WLUF 
properties influence the packaging structure according to 
numerical simulations. Third, the applied bonding forces are 
evacuated at an elevated temperature of 250 °C. Finally, the 
operating temperature for WLUF assembly decreases to the 
ambient room temperature. 
In this study, the gap reduction between stacking chips is 
supposedly almost equal to the warp measured along the top 
surface of the topmost thin chip because of the considerably 
slight expanded contribution of the silicon chip. Given a 
50 μm-thick chip under a load with a bonding force of 2 kg, a 
maximum warp of 1.84 μm is predicted at the chip edge, 
which is similar to the value of 2.0 μm obtained from actual 
measurements. Consequently, the proposed simulation 
methodology is validated to be highly reliable.  
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 4 Comparison of failure modes during thermal cycling 
tests. (a) SEM micrograph of the critical microbump. (b) 
Stress contour from simulated prediction. 
 
To estimate the mechanical reliability of a critical 
microbump, a temperature cycling load between -40 °C and 
125 °C is applied. To ensure the numerical converge, at least 
three cycles are implemented to calculate the increasing 
equivalent plastic strain within the concerned microbump. 
From the strain contour in Fig. 4(b), the maximum strain 
appears at outside of critical joint close to the boned region 
between IMC and the lead-free solder. This prediction is 
identical to the failure mode of delamination observed in the 
SEM micrograph of real specimens after testing (Fig. 4(a)). 
This observation can be attributed to the characteristic 
brittleness of the IMC, which weakens the material and makes 
it easily damaged by stress. Moreover, the presented 
simulations are intended to confidently perform predictions 
using the factors mentioned in this study. 
 
Material Property Effects of WLUF on the Cu/Ni/SnAg 
Microbump Assembly 
The material properties of traditional underfills used in 
flip chip technology having low-k chips are dominant factors 
strong structural support is provided by a dummy microbump 
in the WLUF region, close to the peripheral edges of the top 
chip. Moreover, the results shown in Fig. 8 show that the 
effect of the changing distance of the layout design between 
the critical and dummy joints to reduce warping is decreased 
with the increasing thickness of the topmost chip. For the 
70 μm thick chip, a variation of the 0.11 μm warping 
increment in the presented examined distance parameter is 
attained. However, given the sufficient rigidity supplied by 
the topmost chip, the layout design of the dummy joint 
becomes ineffective for the 250 μm-thick topmost chip.  
 
 
Fig. 8 Maximum warping increments of four topmost chip 
thicknesses predicted by FEA as a different distance 
between critical and dummy microbumps is examined. 
 
Fig. 9 Curves for the maximum equivalent plastic strain of 
critical microbumps by considering different distances 
measured from the closest dummy microbump. 
 
By considering the same arranged design for a dummy 
joint during the stress simulation of thermal cycling tests, the 
maximum equivalent plastic strain of critical microbumps at 
different intervals is assessed from their adjacent dummy 
joints (Fig. 9). All the results when using the four topmost 
chips indicate that the smallest strain on the critical 
microbump occurs when the position of the dummy joint is 
closest to the outermost real one. For a 50 μm-thick topmost 
chip, 0.99% of the maximum strain in the critical joint is 
obtained, while a 30 μm distance is evaluated from the nearest 
dummy joint. This behavior is attributed to the thermal strain 
shared by the outermost microbump and the dummy one. 
Meanwhile, Fig. 9 indicates that a thicker topmost chip would 
have a higher strain at the discussed situation. From a 
mechanical point of view, the shear strain in the microbump 
joints is released by reducing the thickness of the whole 
package. Therefore, the flexibility is increased. However, the 
warped condition in the structure is detrimental for the chip-
on-chip assembly. When the support capacity of a dummy 
joint is weakened by extending the separation interval 
between the critical and dummy joints, the strain is highly 
increased, especially for the package with a thinner topmost 
chip. The equivalent plastic strain is doubled when the 50 μm 
thickness of the topmost chip is 150 μm. This observation 
could be attributed to the increased warping, as compared 
with other states with a thicker topmost chip. 
 
Fig. 10 Arrangement of microbumps by increasing the 
number of dummy bumps adjacent to the critical bump. 
 
Another proposed layout design is increasing the numbers 
of dummy microbumps to enhance the thermomechanical 
reliability of microbumps, as well as to reduce the warping 
increment of the whole packaging structure,. As shown in Fig. 
10, the addition of the dummy joints by a pitch of 30 μm from 
the closest location away the critical microbump affects the 
maximum equivalent plastic strain. The warping increment is 
then accurately predicted. In this study, five conditions with 
different numbers of dummy bumps performed by FEA can 
be observed. Based on the stronger mechanical support of the 
packaging structure, the inclusion of more dummy bumps are 
expected to enhance the prevention of warped behavior 
during the assembly process of chip stacking. As shown in 
Fig. 11, an obvious reduction in warping increment for the 
50 μm-thick topmost chip could be achieved from 1.15 μm to 
about 0.6 μm. Compared with the warping of 0.438 μm at the 
packaging center, a better enhancement in the co-planarity of 
chip-on-chip stacking during assembly procedures is obtained 
because the difference in terms of warping between the center 
and edge of the packaging structure (only about 0.16 μm). 
Moreover, when a topmost chip thicker than 70 μm is used, a 
maximum warp on the chip edge of the topmost chip of 
approximately 0.529 μm is produced by arranging at least five 
dummy microbumps near the critical joint. Further 
elimination of the warp is then accomplished (a slight 
on Device and Materials Reliability, 12 (2) (2012) 285-
295. 
5. J.H. Lau, T.G. Yue, Microelectronics Reliability, 52 (11) 
(2012) 2660-2669. 
6. X. Liu, Q. Chen, V. Sundaram, M. Simmons-Matthews, 
K.P. Wachtler, R.R. Tummala, S.K. Sitaraman, IEEE 
Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability, 12 (2) 
(2012) 263-271. 
7. C.C. Lee, T.F. Yang, K.S. Kao, R.C. Cheng, C.J. Zhan, 
T.H. Chen, IEEE Transactions on Components, 
Packaging, and Manufacturing Technology, 2 (9) (2012) 
1412-1419. 
8. K.N. Tu, Microelectronics Reliability, 51 (3) (2011), 517-
523. 
9. L.J. Ladani, Microelectronic Engineering, 87 (2) (2010), 
208-215. 
10. C.K. Lee,  T.C. Chang, J.H. Lau, Y.J. Huang, H.C. 
Fu, J.H. Huang, Z.C. Hsiao, C.T. Ko, R.S. Cheng, P.C. 
Chang, K.S. Kao, Y.L. Lu, R. Lo, M.J. Kao, IEEE 
Transactions on Components, Packaging and 
Manufacturing Technology, 2 (8) (2012), 1229-1238. 
11. R.W. Yang, Y.W. Chang, W.C. Sung, C. Chen, Materials 
Chemistry and Physics, 134 (1) (2012) 340-344. 
12. S.M. Park, H.S. Bang, H.S. Bang, J.S. You, 
Microelectronic Engineering, 99 (2012) 38-42. 
13. F.X. Che, S.P.S. Lim, T.C. Chai, X. Zhang, IEEE 
Transactions on Device and Materials Reliability, 12 (2) 
(2012) 201-208. 
14. Y.C. Chan, S.C. Tan, N.S. M. Lui, C.W Tan, IEEE 
Transactions on Advanced Packaging, 30 (1) (2007) 142-
147. 
15. T.F. Yang, Soldering and Surface Mount Technology, 24 
(4) (2012) 287-293. 
16. D. L. Logan, A First Course in the Finite Element 
Method, Brooks/Cole, 3rd Edition, pp. 532-558, 2002. 
 
  
 
 
 
Mar. 9, 2013 
 
Dr. Christophe Detavernier 
Chief Editor 
UGent, Belgium 
Dr. Chris Wilson 
Chief Editor 
IMEC, Belgium 
 
 
 
Dear Chief Editors, Drs. Christophe Detavernier and Chris Wilson, 
 
Enclosed please find our papers entitled, “Reliability-Based Design Guidance of 3D ICs Packaging with 
Wafer Level Underfill and Dummy Cu/Ni/SnAg Microbumps” coauthored by Dr. Chang-Chun Lee from 
Chung Yuan Christian University, Kuo-Shu Kao, Ren-Shin Cheng, Chau-Jie Zhan, John H. Lau, and 
Tao-Chih Chang from Industrial Technology Research Institute. We believe this paper presented an 
important design strategy for the 3D ICs integration with the assistance of wafer level underfill and 
dummy microbumps.  We would like to submit it for review and possible publication in the 
Microelectronic Engineering. 
 
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me.  Thank you very much! 
 
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
Po Ting Lin 
 
Encl: manuscript 
Cover Letter
Reliability-based design guidance of 3D ICs packaging with wafer 
level underfill and dummy Cu/Ni/SnAg microbumps 
 
Chang-Chun Leea, Po Ting Lina,*, Kuo-Shu Kaob, Ren-Shin Chengb, Chau-Jie Zhanb, 
John H. Laub, Tao-Chih Changb 
aDepartment of Mechanical Engineering, Research and Development Center for Microsystem 
Reliability, Chung Yuan Christian University 
200 Chungpei Road, Chungli City, Taoyuan County, Taiwan 32023 
bAssembly and Reliability Technology Department, Industrial Technology Research Institute 
No. 195, Sec. 4 Chung-Hsing Road, Chutung, Hsinchiu, Taiwan 31040 
*Corresponding author. Tel: +886-983033147. Email address: potinglin@cycu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
In the latest microelectronics industry, the emerging 3D chip stacking technique using 
through silicon via (TSV) enables higher integration density that allows greater numbers of 
interconnections in order to fulfill the urgent requirements of dimensional downscaling and 
electrical speed enhancement. A high-density pitch of microbumps associated with the wafer-
level underfill (WLUF) under a thermal compressions process are utilized to prevent the 
thermo-mechanical failures of the microbumps due to variations of thermal expansions of 
different materials in the 3D package. The use of dummy microbumps has been proposed to 
find the acceptable thin-layer uniformity and the reliable mechanical performances of the 
entire packaging structure. The warpage and strain behavior of packaging structure has been 
simulated by finite element analysis (FEA) and validated by experimental results. The 
responses were parametrically modeling using Kriging model with respect to compressive 
force, the thickness of the top chip, and the location of the dummy microbumps. The 
deterministic design guidance for warpage and strain has been obtained from the Kriging 
*Manuscript
Click here to view linked References
1. Introduction 
 
The latest microelectronics industry has migrated from two-dimensional integrated 
circuits (ICs) to three-dimensional (3D) ICs due to rapidly growing demands of finer and 
denser interconnections for faster and more powerful performances of the electronic devices. 
The 3D ICs packages assembled by through silicon via (TSV) and microbump 
interconnections have drawn world attentions on the scaling and function integrations of a 
planar chip while Moore’s law is difficult to meet the future requirements of a higher speed, 
multi-functionality, and the hetero-integrations among chips. The emerging technique of 3D 
chip stacking using TSV enables higher integration density that allows greater numbers of 
interconnections in order to fulfill the urgent requirements of dimensional downscaling and 
electrical speed enhancement. However, 3D ICs packages have many critical issues regarding 
reliability such as heat dissipation [1], fracture failure of microbumps under temperature/or 
power cycling tests, interfacial delamination of underfill, cracking behaviors of stacking 
silicon chips [2], electromigration, stressmigration [3]. Several structural designs have been 
developed in the literature for improving the thermo-mechanical reliability of high-density 
3D interconnections. For fine-pitch microbumps fabricated by using flip-chip bonding 
technology, different Cu pillar bump types were studied to resist the fractured occurrence of 
bonding interface between dissimilar materials [4]. In addition, another failure mode 
regarding the delamination mechanism of advanced chips with Cu/low-k back end of line 
interconnections was further investigated while the multi-temperature cycling loads induced 
from fabricated processes of stacked thin films were taken into account [5]. As the both the 
pitch and diameter among TSVs continues scaling down, a finite element analysis (FEA) is a 
power tool to predict the stress response of various reliability tests. The layout arrangement 
implemented in this investigation. Using a process-oriented simulation technique, the FEA 
estimated the distributions of warpage and stress/strain in the integrated packaging structures. 
The process simulation of the 3D ICs packaging was validated by the experimental results. 
 
2.1. Simulation Setup 
 
As shown in Fig. 1, the chip-on-chip stacking structure composed of various material 
components is regarded as the testing vehicle to examine the impacts during the compression 
process. The WLUP has the advantages of avoiding the nucleation of micro-voids that are 
detrimental to the microbump reliability. However, the cooling processing sequential to the 
thermal compression bonding (from 250°C to ambient temperature) potentially incurs the 
warpage of the entire packaging structure of the thin-silicon stacking method. To this end, the 
reduction of stress concentrations at the microbump interconnections around the edges of the 
packaging structure as well as the preservations of thin-layer uniformity in the integrations of 
TSV and microbumps have become one the of most crucial tasks in the 3D ICs packaging. 
This paper proposed the use of dummy microbumps associated with the design of thermal 
compression forces to find the acceptable thin-layer uniformity and the reliable mechanical 
performances of the entire packaging structure. 
Due to the geometric symmetry of the packaging structure, only half of a whole 
framework was constructed in the FEA model, as in Fig. 1 (a). The top chip was mounted on 
the bottom chip with the interconnections of microbumps with lead-free solder materials. The 
subfigure (b) shows the detail of the interconnection structure. The top and substrate silicon 
chips, designed in the sizes of 5.1-by-5.1 and 16-by-16 millimeter squares respectively, were 
bonded together for the reliability evaluations of a thin-chip-on-chip test. The Sn2.5Ag lead-
the SEM images of the testing vehicle. The experimental results have validated the 
performance trend of the simulation results. 
The warpage contour of a chip-on-chip stacking package for the 50-µm top chip with 
a 2-kg bonding load is shown in Fig. 3 (a). Observed from the center of the packaging 
structure, the maximum warpage (blue colored) occurred at the outermost surface corner of 
the top chip. The serious induced warpage occurred because the top chip was not supported 
underneath at the outer region of the package. Furthermore, the maximum von Mises stress 
occurred at the outside corner of the outermost microbump, as shown in the subfigure (b). 
To reduce the unacceptable warpage induced from the WLUF process, an array of 
dummy microbumps is arranged nearby the critical microbump at various designed distances, 
denoted by D: 30, 60, 90 and 120 µm. It is noted that  D = 0  represents zero dummy 
microbumps. The layout designs of the dummy microbumps, shown in Fig. 4, were expected 
to release the stress/strain exerted in the critical microbumps. In the next section, the 
responses of the simulation results are parametrically model with respect to three key design 
variables to provide new guidelines for reliable designs of the 3D ICs packaging with WLUF 
and dummy microbumps. 
 
3. Parametric Models and Design Guidance for 3D ICs Packaging with WLUF 
 
To parametrically model the warpage and stress/strain behaviors, 125 uniformly 
distributed sampling design points were chosen in the design space. The design variables 
include the thickness of the top chip, the required bonding force for the thermal compression 
process, and the location of dummy microbump arrays. The strain distribution of the entire 
packaging assembly may vary dramatically with respect to the chosen design variables 
We have analytically confirmed that the minimal top-chip thickness was 50 µm to 
avoid the collapse of thin-silicon chip at the outermost region (i.e. gap between chips larger 
than 2 µm). For the response modeling of the warpage and strain behaviors, the chosen 
design space is therefore spanned by the thickness of the top chip in the interval of [50, 230] 
µm, the required bonding force in the interval of [1, 5] kg, and the location of dummy 
microbumps (denoted by D) in the interval of [0, 4]. The sampling points are uniformly 
chosen from the design space. The information of the sampling points is listed in Table 2. 
Each dimension is normalized to avoid the scaling issue among each design variable.  
Using the Kriging model with the radial basis functions, the warpage and strain 
(denoted by ε ) responses have been formulated with respect to the three design variables, as 
in Fig. 5 (a) and (b) respectively. The color maps represent the quantitative levels of the 
three-dimensional contours. The Kriging model is capable of revealing the nonlinear 
behaviors of the responses with respect to the design variables. As a result, the maximal 
warpage and strain occur at the conditions of highest bonding force and smallest chip 
thickness without the use of dummy microbumps while the use of dummy microbumps not 
only reduces the warpage but also dramatically decreases the strain at the bonding interfaces. 
 
3.2. Kriging-based Design Guidance (KDG) 
 
Various design requirements have different levels of allowable warpage and strain of 
the 3D ICs packaging with WLUF after the thermal compressions process. From the Kriging 
response surface models, the design guidance for various upper bounds of warpage and strain 
are shown in Fig. 6 (a) and (b) respectively. The potential failure regions are shown under the 
hatched area while the solid curves serve as the Kriging-based Design Guidance (KDG) for 
 4.1. Reliability Analysis 
 
In design optimization under uncertainty, the following probabilistic constraint is 
often formulated: 
 
 
P g X( ) > 0!" #$≤ Pf  (4) 
or 
 
 
P g X( ) ≤ 0"# $%>1− Pf  (5) 
where g  is the deterministic constraint function;  X  is the randomly distributed design 
variable; Pf  is the allowable failure probability. Suppose g ≤ 0  represent the deterministic 
performance requirement, Eq. (4) states the failure probability must be less than or equal to 
the allowable probability. Due to the uncertainty in  X , the performance function  g(X )  is 
also randomly distributed. The evaluation of the failure probability in Eq. (4) can be 
completed by the integration of joint probability density function in the infeasible space. 
However, the integration process requires extremely large number of function evaluations. 
The reliability index β  [11] is utilized to represent the safety level of the design point, as in 
 
 
β = u* ⋅∇ug u*( ) ∇ug u*( )  (6) 
where  u*  is the most probable failure point in the standard normal  u -space. In this paper, the 
required reliability level is defined by β ≥ β f ≡ 3 , also known as the three-sigma design. The 
allowable reliability is 99.87%. 
 
4.2. Reliability-Based Design Guidance (RBDG) 
4. Conclusions 
 
The design of 3D ICs packaging with WLUF under the thermal compression process 
has been studied experimentally and numerically. The thermo-mechanical failures may occur 
at the microbump structure due to the variations of thermal expansions of different materials. 
The stress/strain behaviors of the entire chip-on-chip assembly have been investigated using 
the FEA with the process-oriented simulation technique. The experiment results using the 50-
µm-thick top chip validated the simulation data. The warpage and strain at the most critical 
microbumps varied with respect to two key design parameters: thickness of the top chip and 
the bonding force. The responses were parametrically modeled using the Kriging method. 
The parametric models showed top chip thickness of 50 µm cannot satisfy the allowable 
warpage level of 1 µm. The design of dummy microbumps were arranged near the critical 
microbumps to improve the mechanical performance of the assembly structure. The 
simulation results showed the use of dummy microbumps at the position of 120 µm away 
from the critical microbump decreased the warpage level of the 50-µm-thick design down to 
1 µm. However, the design points at the deterministic design guidance lead to more than 50% 
of probability of failure. Reliability-Based Design Guidance has been defined to perform the 
coordinate shifting to deliver safety buffers between the design points and the deterministic 
limit states. The Monte Carlo simulations confirmed the reliability levels of the design points. 
The proposed method can be used as the design guideline for the mechanical reliability of the 
3D ICs packaging with WLUF and dummy microbumps. 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
[10] L. Lebensztajn, C.A.R. Marretto, M.C. Costa, J.-L. Coulomb, IEEE Transaction on 
Magnetics 40 (2004) 1196-1199. 
[11] P.T. Lin, H.C. Gea, Y. Jaluria, Journal of Mechanical Design 133 (2011) 044501. 
[12] P.T. Lin, H.C. Gea, Y. Jaluria, Frontiers in Heat and Mass Transfer 1 (2010) 013003. 
 
 
  
Table 2. Location of sampling points 
Design variables 
Index of sampling points 
1 2 3 4 5 
Top chip thickness (µm) 50 80 120 170 230 
Bonding force (kg) 1 2 3 4 5 
D (µm) 0 30 60 90 120 
 
  
                
                  (a)                                               (b)      
Fig. 2. SEM images of microbump assembly: (a) assembly with WLUF; (b) cross-section of 
the SnAg interconnection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig. 4. Layout designs of the dummy microbumps at the distances of (a) 30, (b) 60, (c) 90 µm 
from the critical microbumps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 6. Deterministic design guidance in various levels of allowable (a) warpage and (b) 
strain (D=0). 
 
 
 Highlights 
 The design of 3D ICs packaging with wafer level underfill under a thermal compression process 
has been investigated. 
 The experimental results validated the finite element analysis of the 3D ICs packaging designs. 
 The warpage and strain responses have been parametrically modeled using Kriging method. 
 The design of dummy microbumps decreased the warpage and strain at the critical microbumps. 
 Reliability-based design guidance was defined from the Kriging model considering the uncertainty 
in the manufacturing process. 
 
*Highlights (for review)
                
                  (a)                                               (b)      
Fig. 2. SEM images of microbump assembly: (a) assembly with WLUF; (b) cross-section of 
the SnAg interconnection. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig. 4. Layout designs of the dummy microbumps at the distances of (a) 30, (b) 60, (c) 90 µm 
from the critical microbumps. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 6. Deterministic design guidance in various levels of allowable (a) warpage and (b) 
strain (D=0). 
 
 
Table 1. A list of material properties used in the stress simulations of 3D ICs package 
Materials Young’s Modulus 
Coefficient of Thermal 
Expansion (ppm/°C) 
Poisson’s Ratio 
Si 169.5 G 3 0.28 
Cu 
E = 122 GPa 
Ref. T = 25°C 
Yield stress = 173 
MPa 
ET = 1.2 GPa 
17 0.35 
Passivation (Si3N4) 155 GPa 5 0.28 
Wafer-level 
underfill 
6.8 GPa @ 25°C 53 0.33 
SnAg solder 
Temperature 
dependence 
22.5 0.4 
IMC 
(Ni3Sn4) 
85.6 GPa 
-40°C:16.3 
25°C:17.6 
50°C:18.1 
125°C:19.3 
0.31 
Ni 186 GPa 12.5 0.342 
Al 72 GPa 24 0.36 
 
 
 
Table(s)
Investigation of Pre-Bending Substrate Design on Packaging Assembly of IGBT 
Power Module 
 
C.C. Lee1a), K.S. Kao2, Leon Lin2, J.Y. Chang2, F.J. Leu2, Y.L. Lu2, and T.C. Chang2 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University 
200, Chungpei Rd., Chungli City, Taoyuan County, Taiwan 32023, R.O.C. 
2Assembly and Reliability Technology Department, Electronics and Optoelectronics Research Laboratories, Industrial 
Technology Research Institute  
195 Sec. 4, Chung-Hsing Road, Chutung, Hsinchu 31040, Taiwan, ROC 
a) Corresponding author: changchunlee@cycu.edu.tw, Phone: (886) 3-265-4358, Fax: (886) 3-265-4399 
 
Abstract 
Serious warpage and a high level of thermal stress or 
strain resulting from the heavy coefficients of the thermal 
extension mismatch between direct bonded copper (DBC) and 
a copper-base plate are obviously introduced into module 
structures in the packaging of the power modules of an 
insulated gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) during multi-
temperature cycles of assembly. The aforementioned 
phenomenon is unfavorable in maintaining the long-term 
reliability of the IGBT power module because failure modes, 
such as burn-out of connected wires among IGBT chips and 
growth of cracks in the soldered materials between the DBC 
and base plate, could occur. A pre-bending substrate with a 
curve opposite the warp direction induced during the 
assembly processes is proposed in this paper to eliminate 
warping as well as to achieve suitable co-planarity. The 
proposed design is found to be highly workable via finite 
element method-based simulation validated by experimental 
measurements. A thicker base plate is also suggested to 
reduce warping of the entire packaging structure based on the 
predictive results of parametric analyses regarding the 
thickness of the Al2O3 and copper-base plates. 
 
Key Words: Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor (IGBT), 
Warpage, Finite Element Analysis, Direct Bonded Copper 
(DBC), Assembly 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 1. Major failure modes in the IGBT power module. (a) 
Burn-out of wires and (b) fracture in the solder materials 
between the DBC plate and base substrate [16]. 
 
Introduction 
Hybrid vehicles, uninterruptible power systems, and 
DC/DC converters as well as advanced power modules with 
high reliability and power have become the focus of ongoing 
research to address the extensive requirements of power 
supply [1]. However, a power module with several insulated 
gate bipolar transistor (IGBT) chips mounted on plates of 
direct bonded copper (DBC) by means of lead-free solders 
and subsequently bonded on a Cu-base plate through the same 
solders produces several major failure modes, such as burn-
out of the bonding wires, isolation substrate delamination, and 
cracks on the solder material [2-8]. These failure modes are 
shown in Fig. 1. Investigation of the root cause of the 
aforementioned reliability issues reveals that the induced 
warpage during the process of power module assembly is the 
critical factor that makes the heat dissipation of IGBT chips 
difficult. This urgent issue should be resolved to address the 
reliability requirements. 
Numerous studies have evaluated the reliability of power 
modules during assembly procedures and in subsequent 
working situations [9-12]. A fatigue failure is usually induced 
in the solder sandwiched between the DBC module and 
copper-base plate when temperature or power cycling load is 
applied to the IGBT power module. An initial crack is 
observed at the solder border; this crack eventually enlarges. 
The Darveaux constitutive model has been employed by 
several studies to describe the mechanical failure mechanism 
and predicted fatigue lifetime of the solder-bonded layer [13-
15]. However, research on the impact of warpage from the 
assembly procedures is limited. Given that the heat generated 
from the chips cannot be effectively dissipated and further 
thermal stress or strain is generated, failure modes such as 
burn-out of bonding wires and occurrence of interfacial 
fracture on the attached chip layer are consequently induced. 
This issue has become one of the urgent reliability concerns 
that need to be resolved. A novel design involving pre-
bending substrates for the copper-base plate is therefore 
proposed to compensate for the warpage induced during the 
assembly process. The validated experimental tests and 
computer calculations reveal that the presented designs reduce 
the impact during packaging assembly. These designs can be 
achieved by utilizing a suitable pre-bending shape and related 
dimensional arrangements of the IGBT power module. 
 
Testing Vehicle Assembly of the IGBT Power Module 
The testing vehicle utilized to investigate the warpage of 
the IGBT power module during packaging assembly is shown 
in Fig. 2. The adopted IGBT module comprises five main 
components, namely, a copper-base plate, bonded SnAgCu 
solder materials, DBC plates, two diodes, and two IGBT 
copper-base plate. The IGBT chip and copper-base plate are 
apparently different. A detailed model construction through 
FEA is shown in Fig. 5. 
 
Table 1. List of the material properties utilized in pre-warp 
bending in nonlinear stress simulation. 
Materials Young’s modulus (E) CTE  (ppm/℃) 
Poisson’s 
Ratio 
Cu 122 GPa 16.5 0.35 
Al2O3 340 GPa 8.1 0.2 
SnAgCu 
solder Temperature dependence 22.5 0.4 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig. 6. Stress results for the assembly of the IGBT module. 
(a) Warpage prediction by a baseline vehicle and (b) contour 
of von Mises stress for a bonded lead-free solder layer. 
 
 
Fig. 7. Variation of the warped magnitude for Al2O3 layer 
thickness along the A-A path resulting from FEA 
estimation. 
 
Given that thermal loading is considered in FEA, cooling 
temperature from 240 °C to room temperature in the vacuum 
reflow process is applied in the simulations. The predicted 
warpage distribution for the planar copper-base plate without 
a pre-curved design is shown in Fig. 6(a). The figure indicates 
that a concave-type warp is introduced. We compared the 
0.6 mm magnitude obtained from actual measurements with 
the simulation results obtained from the baseline dimensions 
of the IGBT power modules and found that the maximum 
predicted magnitude of 0.601 mm is almost the same as that 
obtained from the simulation. The proposed simulated 
methodology is therefore highly reliable. 
Another focus of this study is the stress in the lead-free 
solder inserted between the DBC modules and copper-base 
plate. Fig. 6(b) shows that a high stress level (up to 
~109 GPa) occurs in the corner region far from the packaging 
center. This finding means that a fractured failure is likely to 
occur in this location. Fig. 4 indicates that three paths (A-A, 
B-B, and C-C) starting from the central point of the IGBT 
module structure and along the direction of the symmetry axis 
(longitudinal and diagonal) are examined to track the 
variation of warpage. The major factor that determines the 
thickness of the DBC layer and copper-base plate is 
discussed. 
 
 
Fig. 8. Variation of the warped magnitude for Al2O3 layer 
thickness along the C-C path resulting from FEA estimation.
 
 
Fig. 9. Remnants of warpage along the A-A path after 
utilizing the proposed pre-bending design of the IGBT 
power module with different Al2O3 layer thickness. 
 
 
A-A line reveals that when the thickness of the copper-base 
plate increases from 500 μm to 5,000 μm, a normalized warp 
from 4.681% to 0.023% after assembly is obtained in contrast 
with the copper base substrate itself. Based on the parametric 
analysis of a fixed 635 μm thick Al2O3 layer, we conclude 
that warping of a power module can be effectively reduced by 
utilizing a thick base plate. 
 
 
Fig. 13. Residual warpage in the thickness of the copper-
base plate with pre-bending design examined along the A-A 
path after assembly. 
 
 
Fig. 14. Effect of copper-base plate thickness on residual 
warpage predicted through FEA with confirmation along the 
C-C path when the pre-bending copper-base plate design is 
adopted. 
 
Conclusions 
A base plate with a pre-bending design opposite the 
actual warped direction induced from a planar plate is 
proposed to resolve the warpage of an IGBT power module, 
which occurs during the reflow process in packaging 
assembly. The simulated FEA validated through related 
experimental measurements indicates that the proposed pre-
bending design can significantly eliminate induced warpage. 
The predicted results indicate that increasing the DBC 
thickness of the Al2O3 layer minimizes warping of the power 
module as well as thermal stress in the lead-free solder 
inserted between the DBC module and copper-base plate. 
This particular result is attributed to the gradually extending 
CTE mismatch among the material components.  
In contrast, increasing the thickness of the copper-base 
plate reduces structural warpage because deformation is 
restrained by the rigidity of the base plate. A pre-bending base 
plate is considered in a series of simulated predictions. The 
results of the parametric analyses show that warping of the 
IGBT power module can be effectively controlled and that 
satisfactory coplanarity can be achieved after the process of 
packaging assembly. Assuming that the stress of a solder 
material is below the material's failure limitation, we suggest 
the use of a thicker base plate in the fabrication of the entire 
IGBT power module. 
 
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to thank the National Center for 
High-performance Computing (NCHC) for supporting this 
research, as well as the National Science Council of Taiwan, 
R.O.C. for providing financial support under contract number 
NSC-100-2218-E-033-002-MY2. Likewise, the fabricating 
support of the specimens from EORL/ITRI is deeply 
appreciated by the authors. 
 
References 
1. W.W. Sheng, R.P. Colino. Power electronic modules. CRC 
Press; 2005. 
2. H. Ye, M. Lin, C. Basaran, Finite Elem. Anal. Des. 38 
(2002) 601–612. 
3. M. Ciappa, Microelectron. Reliab. 42 (2002) 653–667. 
4. T. Lhommeau, C. Martin, M. Karama, R. Meuret, M. 
Mermet Guyennet, 2007, pp. 1–10. 
5. N.Y.A. Shammasm, Microelectron. Reliab. 43 (2003) 519–
527. 
6. M.H. Pooch, K.J. Dittmer, D. Gabisch, In: Proceedings of 
the EUPAC 96 (1996) 128–131. 
7. M. Gunther, K. Wolter, M. Rittner, W. Nuthter, In: 
Proceedings of electronics systemintegration technology 
conference (ESTC) (2006) 714–718. 
8. L. Dupont, Z. Khatir, S. Lefebvre, S. Bontemps, 
Microelectron. Reliab. 46 (2006) 1766–1771. 
9. A. Morozumi, K. Yamada, T. Miyasaka, Electr. Rev. 47 
(2001) 54–58. 
10. U. Scheuermann, U. Hecht, in: Power Conversion 
Conference & Intelligent Motion, Nuremberg, Germany, 
2002. 
11. T.Y. Hung, S.Y. Chiang, C.J. Huang, C.C. Lee, K.N. 
Chiang, Microelectron. Reliab. 51 (2011) 1819–1823. 
12. H. Lu, C. Bailey, C. Yin, Microelectron. Reliab. 49 
(2009) 1250–1255. 
13. S. Deplanque, W. Nuchter, B. Wunderle, R. Schacht, B. 
Michel, in: Thermal, Mechanical and Multiphysics 
Simulation and Experiments in Micro Electronics and 
Micro-Systems, 2006. 7th International Conference on 
EuroSime, Como, Italy, 2006, pp. 1–8. 
14. W.D. Zhuang, P.C. Chang, F.Y. Chou, R.K. Shiue, 
Microelectron. Reliab. 41 (2001) 2011–2021. 
15. R. Darveaux, J. Electron. Packag. 124 (2002) 147–154. 
16. T.Y. Hung, C.J. Huang, C.C. Lee, C.C. Wang, K.C. Lu, 
K.N. Chiang, has been accepted for publication in 
Microelectronic Engineering, 2013 (In press). 
 一、 會議簡介 
    這次所參加的國際研討會 2013 International Conference on 
Computational & Experimental Engineering and Sciences (ICCES'13)為
在美國的西雅圖(Seattle)舉辦，ICCES 為由世界上在學術界、工業界
與政府單位上，在計算模擬、實驗工程與科學方面高度享譽國際之研
究員所組籌而成，此會議為 Satya N. Atluri.教授於 1986年所發起，每
年在世界各地輪流舉辦，每年會議約有 500為專業研究人員參與，其
所探討研究的領域為耐奈米工程與科技、奈米結構材料、工程生醫與
應用、生醫微機電與生醫晶片、複雜工程系統、分子與細胞生物力學、
計算數值方法、材料與連體、工程與科學之計算模擬、軟體計算、Fuzzy
控制等等。而 ICCES 會議主要所著重的為搭起工程、生物科學、物
理科學等之間的交流平台，如此能夠快速地轉移研究能量而發展符合
具大量與廣泛經濟效益之研究主題與成果。 
 
二、 口頭論文報告過程與心得： 
今年為第一次參加 ICCES 研討會，今年該研討會所接受的研討
會論文約 300多篇，而今年此研討會特別頒發國內力學方面深具學術
聲望與已教育許多優秀學生人才之清華大學動力機械系陳文華教
授，予以其本人終身成就獎。而大會特別為了陳教授，組織了五個榮
deformation, and related experimental tests are utilized to verify the 
reliability of the mechanical model. Under different radii of bending 
curvatures, the accurate position of the neutral plane along the direction 
of total thickness, stiffness, and related stress distribution of each film is 
calculated by using the derived formula; the result is better than that 
predicted by FEA. The Young’s modulus and thickness of each film are 
the major factors that affect the stress magnitude and flexibility of the 
OLED device packaging structure. To explain the behaviors induced by 
the material properties of films, a parametric analysis of a cover plate 
within an OLED packaging structure is conducted. The results can be 
applied to the development of flexible electronics with a long lifespan 
and mechanical reliability. 
 
發表時間約為十八分鐘，發表結束後的問題討論，有學者提出封裝結
構內之堆疊薄膜在遭受彎矩負載時，層間之間的脫層失效破壞模式使
否有在我們所提出的力學模擬（與解析解）中考慮？我的回答是，基
本上，該學者專家所提到的為此封裝結構所發現的一個重要失效模
式，且該模式仍有很大的機率發生，當薄膜層間之黏著強度不佳時，
該情況將會更加嚴重。然而，在我們的力學分析的解析解，亦或有限
單元分析模擬，則是假設堆疊薄膜層間為完美的黏著強度，因此脫層
失效行為，並未在此分析中考慮，而考慮的重點在於薄膜其在各種彎
矩負載下之彎矩應力為何，是否有機會超過其降伏強度之值。此外，
與會人員亦發問第二個問題為，堆疊薄膜在彎矩負載下，其於厚度方
 
  
  
上六圖為 ICCES 2013參加會議的一些照片 
 
三、 結論 
在此特別感謝國科會提供經費上的補助，使得我能順利參與
ICCES 2013國際研討會的機會，ICCES 2013國際研討會是每年一次
在世界各國輪流舉辦的重要國際研討會，明年此會議將在韓國舉辦。
參與此研討會除可以增進本人對於下一世代計算力學與數值模擬與
分析專業技術相關知識外，亦可與國外目前從事相關研究之科學家與
先進學者進行的交流溝通。 
     
四、 攜回資料內容 
1. 會議論文發表程序冊 
Theme Date: May-24 Room: P
Session Time: 11:00AM-12:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130429338 Leadership Matters John White 11:00AM-11:45AM *plenary
Theme Date: May-24 Room: A
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:30AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130412300 Modeling of phonon transport in graphene with 
antidots for thermoelectric applications
V.K. Tewary 8:00AM-8:30AM *award
ICCES1320130121104 Effect of in situ high magnetic field application on 
the growth of molecular-beam-vapor-deposited 
Ni45Fe55 nanocrystalline films
Guojian Li, Yongze Cao, Qiang 
Wang, Jiaojiao Du, Jicheng He
8:30AM-8:55AM *keynote
ICCES1320130412298 Computational Modeling of Nanostructured 
Materials for Novel Energy Application
Ming Hu 8:55AM-9:13AM
ICCES1320130226191 Raman Spectroscopy and Molecular Dynamics 
Simulation Studies of Carbon Nanotubes
Prabhakar Misra, Daniel Casimir 
and Raul Garcia-Sanchez
9:13AM-9:31AM
ICCES1320130304217 Multilayer Graphene/Noble Metal Systems for Low 
- Loss Plasmonics Applications
L. Rast, T. J. Sullivan, and V. K. 
Tewary
9:31AM-9:49AM
ICCES1320130328278 Laser induced local structural and property 
modification
Yong Zhang 9:49AM-10:14AM *keynote
ICCES1320130508366 Atomic Origins of Plasticity in Crystalline and 
Amorphous Quasi-1D Nanostructures
Lisa Y. Chen, Mo-rigen He, Daniel 
J. Magagnosc, Kathryn F. Murphy, 
Daniel S. Gianola
10:14AM-10:32AM
Theme Date: May-24 Room: A
Session Time: 1:30PM-3:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130207146 Recent Progress on LTCC-Based Super-Compact 
Multilayer Composite Right/Left-Handed 
Transmission Lines
Yasushi Horii 1:30PM-1:55PM
ICCES1320130216166 Enhanced Bandwidth of a Slotted Mushroom 
Zeroth-Order Resonator Antenna based on 
Metamaterials
Cherl-Hee Lee, Jonghun Lee, 
Dong-Sik Woo, Kang-Wook Kim
1:55PM-2:20PM
ICCES1320130301212 Holographic Metasurfaces Patrice Genevet, Jiao Lin, Federico 
Capasso
2:20PM-2:45PM
ICCES1320130218170 Theory and Design of Artificial-Impedance-
Surface Antennas
D.J. Gregoire  and J.S. Colburn 2:45PM-3:10PM
ICCES1320130305228 Metamaterials with Quantum Gain Kosmas L. tsakmakidis and Ortwin 
Hess
3:10PM-3:35PM
Theme Date: May-24 Room: A
Session Time: 4:00PM-6:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130215163 Building Blocks in Photonic Metamaterials and 
Their Application for Subwavelength Optical 
Devices
Masanobu Iwanaga 4:00PM-4:25PM
ICCES1320130226193 Quantitative Metamaterial Property Extraction D. Schurig 4:25PM-4:50PM *keynote
ICCES1320130224184 Optical Hyperspace: light propagation and related 
phenomena in metamaterials with hyperbolic 
dispersion
E. E. Narimanov 4:50PM-5:15PM
ICCES1320130227200 Radiation pressure on nanostructured optical 
materials
Jeremy N. Munday 5:15PM-5:40PM
ICCES1320130213152 Metamaterial Based Spatial Light Modulators for 
THz Imaging
Claire M. Watts, David 
Shrekenhamer, Willie J. Padilla
5:40PM-5:58PM
ICCES1320130313246 Plasmonic switching using an electromagnetically 
induced transparency feature
B. S. Ham 5:58PM-6:23PM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: A
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:00AM
Paper Title Author Time
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
A03: Metamaterials
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
A04: Metamaterials
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
A05: Metamaterials
Technical Program: ICCES'13 Seattle, USA
May 24 - May 28, 2013, Seattle, USA
Opening Ceremony
P01: Opening Ceremony
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
A01: Symposium in Honour of Dr. Vinod Tewary
ICCES1320130418306 Electronic properties of III-V quantum dots via 
effective mass and linear scaling tight-binding 
models
Harley T. Johnson and Brian 
McGuigan
5:51PM-6:16PM *keynote
Theme Date: May-27 Room: A
Session Time: 8:00AM-9:10AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130325271 Real-Time “Health” Monitoring of Structures & 
Components with Advanced NDE, Multi-Scale 
Modeling, & Modern Statistics
Jeffrey T. Fong, James J. Filliben, 
N. Alan Heckert, and William F. 
Guthrie
8:00AM-8:25AM *keynote
ICCES1320130408294 Interactions of same-row vacancies on rutile 
TiO2(110)
Cristian V. Ciobanu 8:25AM-8:50AM *keynote
ICCES1320130416304 Recent Progress on Synthesis and 
Characterization of Boron-based One-Dimensional 
Nanostructures
Terry Xu 8:50AM-9:08AM
Theme Date: May-27 Room: A
Session Time: 9:15AM-12:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130227199 Collective response of metamaterial arrays Stewart Jenkins and Janne 
Ruostekoski
9:15AM-9:40AM
ICCES1320130216165 Liquid crystal based plasmonic metamaterials T. Scharf, J. Dintinger, B.J. Tang, 
G. H. Mehl, X. Zeng, G. Ungar, S. 
Mühlig, T. Kienzler and C. 
Rockstuhl
9:40AM-10:05AM *keynote
ICCES1320130224182 Gradient index optical cavities Aaron J. Danner, Tomáš Tyc, 
Alireza Akbarzadeh
10:30AM-10:48AM
ICCES1320130214159 Soft Computing for Terahertz Metamaterial 
Absorber Design   for Biomedical Application
Balamati Choudhury, B. Thiruveni, 
Pavani Vijay Reddy, R. M. Jha
10:48AM-11:06AM
ICCES1320130214157 EM Analysis of Metamaterial based Radar 
Absorbing Structure (RAS) with Dual-resonant 
Characteristics
Shiv Narayan , S. Latha, and R. M. 
Jha
11:06AM-11:24AM
ICCES1320130215161 Chiral meta-molecule and meta-interface Satoshi Tomita 11:24AM-11:49AM
Theme Date: May-24 Room: B
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:30AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130318262 Meshless Analysis for Three-dimensional 
Problems with Complicated Geometry and 
Extremely Large Deformation
Wen-Hwa Chen 8:00AM-8:40AM *theme
ICCES1320121227028 Analysis with STL geometry Ming-Hsiao Lee 8:40AM-8:58AM
ICCES1320121228031 The design of a pneumatic wind energy collection 
and storage system
Dein Shaw, Yuan-Cheng Sun and 
Chien-Ting Liu
8:58AM-9:16AM
ICCES1320121229041 The Mechanical Properties of Carbon Nanotubes 
Ropes Using Atomistic-Continuum Mechanics and 
the Equivalent Methods
C.J. Huang, T.Y. Hung  and K.N. 
Chiang
9:16AM-9:41AM *keynote
ICCES1320130101051 Studies on Nanomechanical Properties of Visco-
Elastoplastic Material of Dragonfly Wing 
Membrane using Nanoindentation
K.Ting, C.H. Chang,J.S. Wu, K.T. 
Chen, C.H. Huang
9:41AM-9:59AM
ICCES1320121210012 Image Processing Study on Monitoring Individual 
Drosophila
Yu-Ching Lin, Hung-Yin Tsai 9:59AM-10:17AM
ICCES1320130313245 CAPACITIVELY CATENARY FEEDBACK 
CONTROL FOR OPEN-TYPE DIGITAL 
MICROFLUDICS
Yi-Chi Kung and Rongshun Chen 10:17AM-10:35AM
Theme Date: May-24 Room: B
Session Time: 1:30PM-3:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130120077 A fast forward algorithm for LWD GR log response 
based on geological model and it's geosteering 
application
CaiRui Shao, XianJun Cao, 
FuMing Zhang, GuoXing Chen, 
JiaQi Ji, JianHong Tang
1:30PM-1:48PM
ICCES1320130119075 Solution of Nonlinear seepage model for well 
group in fractured low-permeability reservoirs
Gu Jian-wei ,     Liu Yang ,       
Zeng Qing-dong
1:48PM-2:06PM
Solid Mechanics
B01: Symposium in Honour of Prof. Wen-Hwa Chen
Multidisciplinary Analysis & Synthesis of Complex Systems
B03: Calculations and Experiments for Petroleum Engineering (Numerical Modelin
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
A09: Symposium in Honour of Dr. Vinod Tewary
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
A10: Metamaterials
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130406290 A set-based dynamic eigenvalue analysis method 
using Kriging model and PSO algorithm
ZiChun Yang, WenCai Sun 1:30PM-1:55PM *keynote
ICCES1320130228205 Recent works on numerical methods for fractional 
diffusion equations
HongGuang Sun 1:55PM-2:13PM
ICCES1320130206145 A simple meshless LBIE-LRBF method for 
transient elastic problems
E.J. Sellountos, T. Gortsas, D. 
Polyzos
2:13PM-2:31PM
ICCES1320130317256 Newly-developed finite elements for modeling 
functionally graded materials (FGM) in micro- and 
macro-scales
Peter L. Bishay, Satya N. Atluri 2:31PM-2:49PM
ICCES1320130424319 Numerical solution of quenching problems using 
orthogonal trigonometric functions
Haiyan Tian 2:49PM-3:07PM
ICCES1320130414303 Application of the Trefftz method on the Basis of 
Stroh Formalism to Inverse SHM Problem of 
Anisotropic Elasticity
Tao. Zhang and S.N. Atluri 3:07PM-3:25PM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: B
Session Time: 4:00PM-6:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320121123002 A Study of the Cutting Temperature in Milling 
Stainless Steels with Chamfered Main Cutting 
Edge Sharp Worn Tools
Chung-Shin Chang 4:00PM-4:18PM
ICCES1320130204137 Singular Boundary Method for Exterior Wave 
Problems
Zhuo-Jia Fu, Wen Chen 4:18PM-4:36PM
ICCES1320130423314 Trefftz Voronoi Cells (TVC) for Micromechanical 
Modeling of Heterogeneous Materials
Leiting Dong and Satya N. Atluri 4:36PM-4:54PM
ICCES1320130101053 Finite Element Solution of a Small Perturbation in 
Thermo-Elastic Instability Systems
Abdullah M. Al Shabibi 4:54PM-5:12PM
ICCES1320121210013 The canonical reduction of four-dimensional self-
dual Yang-Mills theory to equations which 
describe pseudo-spherical surfaces
S. M. Sayed 5:12PM-5:30PM
ICCES1320121123003 Haar Wavelet Operational Matrix Method for 
Solving Fractional Partial Differential Equations
Yiming Chen, Mingxu Yi 5:30PM-5:48PM
ICCES1320130223177 Fast Regularized Boundary Integral Method for 
Acoustic Problems
Z.Y. Qian, Z.D. Han, and S.N. 
Atluri
5:48PM-6:13PM *keynote
ICCES1320130425331 Development of Multidisciplinary Optimization 
Framework using PSO algorithm and its 
applications
Kook Jin Park, Nitesh Kumar 
Karma, Hee Jin Kang and Seung 
Jo Kim
6:13PM-6:31PM
Theme Date: May-27 Room: B
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:00AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130122112 Structural Analysis of a Lab-Scale PCHE 
Prototype under the Test Conditions of the HELP
Keenam Song and S. D. Hong 8:00AM-8:18AM
ICCES1320130224183 Particle-based method for dynamic propagation of 
cracks with energy balance consideration
Kenji Oguni and Masanori Kondo 8:18AM-8:43AM *keynote
ICCES1320130225185 Non-Destructive Assessment of the Historic Salah Amer 8:43AM-9:01AM
ICCES1320130422311 Challenges in Predicting Wear Rate Zhong-Sheng Liu, Cheng Haung, 
Liang Ma, Jimmy Jiang, Yongxong 
Xie, Rob Hui
9:01AM-9:19AM
Theme Date: May-27 Room: B
Session Time: 10:30AM-12:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130423312 SGBEM Voronoi Cells (SVC) for Micromechanical 
Modeling of Heterogeneous Materials
Leiting Dong and Satya N. Atluri 10:30AM-10:48AM
ICCES1320130206144 A MESHLESS APPROACH FOR MODELLING 
OF THREE DIMENSIONAL 
MACROSEGREGATION IN CONTINUOUS 
CASTING OF STEEL
R. Vertnik, B. Sarler 10:48AM-11:06AM
ICCES Meshless Method 2013
B08: ICCESMM'13: on MLPG, Trefftz, MFS, BEM, and Other Meshless Methods
Solid Mechanics
B09: Comp. Fracture Mechanics; Structural Integrity & Health Monitoring
ICCES Meshless Method 2013
B10: ICCESMM'13: on MLPG, Trefftz, MFS, BEM, and Other Meshless Methods
ICCES1320130311237 Modeling and simulation of particle laden thin 
films
Andrea Bertozzi 8:00AM-8:25AM *keynote
ICCES1320130304218 Conservation Laws for Particle Laden Thin Films Aliki Mavromoustaki, Andrea L. 
Bertozzi
8:25AM-8:43AM
ICCES1320121215020 Shock solutions for high concentration particle-
laden thin films
Li Wang and Andrea L. Bertozzi 8:43AM-9:01AM
ICCES1320121218022 Particle segregation in spiral channels Sungyon Lee, Yvonne Stokes, 
Andrea Bertozzi
9:01AM-9:19AM
ICCES1320130311241 A second order virtual node method for elliptic 
problems with interfaces and irregular domains in 
three dimensions
Joseph Teran 9:19AM-9:44AM *keynote
ICCES1320121228034 Semi-implicit surface tension formulation with a 
Lagrangian surface mesh on an Eulerian 
simulation grid
Craig Schroeder, Wen Zheng, 
Ronald Fedkiw
9:44AM-10:02AM
ICCES1320130311243 Energetically Consistent Invertible Elasticity Alexey Stomakhin 10:30AM-10:48AM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: C
Session Time: 10:48AM-12:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320121204009 Two formulations for a fast time domain BEM in 
elastodynamics
B. Kager, M. Schanz, T. Traub 10:48AM-11:13AM *keynote
ICCES1320130423313 Fracture & Fatigue Analyses: SGBEM-FEM or 
XFEM?
Leiting Dong and Satya N. Atluri 11:13AM-11:38AM *keynote
ICCES1320130228203 Meshless analysis of piezoelectric sensor 
embedded in composite floor panel
P. Stanak,  A. Tadeu , J. Sladek , 
V. Sladek
11:38AM-11:56AM
ICCES1320130324268 Solving convection-diffusion problems by local 
maximum entropy finite element method
C. T. Wu and D. L. Young 11:56AM-12:14PM
ICCES1320130326274 Using the method of fundamental solutions for 
obtaining exponentially convergent Helmholtz 
eigensolutions
Chia-Cheng Tsai and D. L. Young 12:14PM-12:32PM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: C
Session Time: 1:30PM-3:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130213153 A Meshless Method for Calculating 3-D Windfields D. W. Pepper and C. Rasmussen 1:30PM-1:55PM *keynote
ICCES1320130324270 Analysis of Multi-dimensional Burgers Equations 
by Localized Method of Particular Solutions
D. L. Young, C. Y. Lin , M. H. Gu  
and C.S. Chen
1:55PM-2:20PM *keynote
ICCES1320130205142 A MESHLESS APPROACH FOR SIMULATION 
OF STEEL BILLETS ROLLING
B. Sarler, U. Hanoglu 2:20PM-2:45PM *keynote
ICCES1320130121106 A Scalar Homotopy Method with Optimal Hybrid 
Search Directions for Solving Nonlinear Algebraic 
Equations
Weichung Yeih, Cheng-Yu Ku, 
Chein-Shan Liu, I-Yao Chan
2:45PM-3:03PM
ICCES1320130317252 The Relationship between Vacuum Residua Petro-
Surfonate Stucture and Its EOR Property
Bo Peng, Shenke Li, Ke Hu 3:03PM-3:21PM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: C
Session Time: 4:00PM-6:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130102055 Group Preserving Scheme for Simulating 
Dynamic Ship Maneuvering Behaviors
Yung-Wei Chen, Jiang-Ren 
Chang, Wun-Sin Jhao, Juan-Chen 
Huang
4:00PM-4:18PM
ICCES1320130215162 An adaptive homogenization-based quasi-discrete 
approach for modeling strain localizing 
heterogeneous materials
P.Z. Berke, R.H.J. Peerlings, T.J. 
Massart, M.G.D. Geers
4:18PM-4:36PM
ICCES1320130328279 Generalized multipole method for solving multiple 
scattering problems with circular boundaries
Wei-Ming Lee 4:36PM-4:54PM
ICCES1320130113059 A Fictitious Time Integration Method for Solving 
Two-Dimensional Groundwater Pollution Source 
Identification Problems
Chih-Wen Chang 4:54PM-5:12PM
ICCES1320130320264 Simulation of sound-fields near three-dimensional 
thin screens using an iterative boundary element 
approach
J. António, António Tadeu 5:12PM-5:37PM *keynote
ICCES Meshless Method 2013
C08: ICCESMM'13: on MLPG, Trefftz, MFS, BEM, and Other Meshless Methods
ICCES Meshless Method 2013
C06: ICCESMM'13: on MLPG, Trefftz, MFS, BEM, and Other Meshless Methods
ICCES Meshless Method 2013
C07: ICCESMM'13: on MLPG, Trefftz, MFS, BEM, and Other Meshless Methods
Theme Date: May-24 Room: D
Session Time: 3:30PM-6:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320121224025 Design and Development of Electromagnetic-type 
Shock Wave Generation in Liquids
Shen-Min Liang, Ashraful Islam, 
Wei-Cheng Huang
3:30PM-3:48PM
ICCES1320121228038 Vibration Analysis for Pizoelectric Thick Plate 
Based on Mindlin Theory
Yi-Chuang Wu and Chien-Ching 
Ma
4:00PM-4:25PM *keynote
ICCES1320130120089 Dynamic Instability of Rectangular Composite 
Plates under Parametric Excitation
Meng-Kao Yeh,  Chia-Shien Liu, 
Chien-Chang Chen
4:25PM-4:43PM
ICCES1320121228037 Fracture Behaviors and Low Temperature 
Thermal-Mechanical Properties of Graphene 
Sheet Using a Modified Nosé-Hoover Thermostat
Hsien-Chie Cheng, Ching-FengYu, 
Kun-Ling Chen and Wen-Hwa 
Chen
4:43PM-5:01PM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: D
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:00AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130117062 Three-dimensional Fluid Flow Simulations Using 
GPU-based Particle Method
K. Kakuda, T. Nagashima, Y. 
Hayashi, S. Obara, J. Toyotani, S. 
Miura, N. Katsurada, S. Higuchi 
and S. Matsuda
8:00AM-8:18AM
ICCES1320130305219 Liquid metal turbulent duct flows in a 
magnetohydrodynamic power generator
Hiromichi Kobayashi and Yoshihiro 
Okuno
8:18AM-8:36AM
ICCES1320130317253 GPU Accelerated Fluid Simulation with Implicit 
Surface Obstacles
S. Nakata, Y. Sakamoto 8:36AM-8:54AM
ICCES1320130422310 Fast Implementation of Meshless Time Domain 
Method for Electromagnetic Wave Propagation 
Simulation in Complex Shaped Domain
Taku Itoh, Yoshihisa Fujita, and 
Soichiro Ikuno
8:54AM-9:12AM
ICCES1320130424316 A Proposal of Hierarchical Decision Making 
Mechanism for Externally Expandable Game AI 
and its Effectiveness on Multi-core Environment
Yuki SHIHO, Kensuke 
KURAMOTO, Masakazu 
FURUICHI
9:12AM-9:30AM
ICCES1320130430340 Finite Rotation Transient FE Simulation and 
Vibration Control of Smart Structures
M.N. Rao, R. Schmidt 9:30AM-9:48AM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: D
Session Time: 10:30AM-12:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130217167 Stochastic FEM on nonlinear vibration of fluid-
conveying double-walled carbon nanotubes 
subjected to a moving load
Tai-Ping Chang 10:30AM-10:48AM
ICCES1320121211017 A GL(n,R) Differential Algebraic Equation Method 
for Numerical Differential of Noisy Signal
Chein-Shan Liu 10:48AM-11:06AM
ICCES1320121220023 Dynamic stress intensity factors of collinear 
cracks under a uniform tensile stress wave
Shih-Ming Huang and Kuang-
Chong Wu
11:06AM-11:31AM *keynote
ICCES1320121228036 Process-dependent Thermal-Mechanical 
Behaviors of an Advanced Thin-Flip-Chip-on-Flex 
Technology with Anisotropic Conductive Adhesive 
Joints
Hsien-Chie Cheng , Ching-Feng 
Yu, Su-Tsai Lu and Wen-Hwa 
Chen
11:31AM-11:49AM
ICCES1320130114060 BEM Analysis of Heat Conduction in 3D Thin 
Anisotropic Media
Y.C. Shiah and Wang Chi-Chang 11:49AM-12:07PM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: D
Session Time: 1:30PM-3:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130124118 Computer Modeling SiC/SiC Composites E. Schnack, Y. Zhu 1:30PM-1:48PM
ICCES1320130130130 Reliability analysis and optimal design of a 
composite structure under gust loads
Tae-Uk Kim 1:48PM-2:06PM
ICCES1320130214160 Development of High Performance Temperature 
Sensors Made from Carbon Nanotube/Polymer 
Nanocomposites
Alamusi and Ning Hu 2:06PM-2:24PM
ICCES1320130425330 Local buckling analysis of composite box-type of 
beams used in timber building structures
S.R. Atashipour, U.A. Girhammar 2:24PM-2:42PM
Mechanics of Fluids, gases, and Fluid/MEMS
D05: Comp. Fluid/Electromagnetic Dynamics and Parallel Computing
Solid Mechanics
D06: Symposium in Honour of Prof. Wen-Hwa Chen (Dynamics)
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
D07: Mechanics of Composite Materials and Structures
Solid Mechanics
D04: Symposium in Honour of Prof. Wen-Hwa Chen
ICCES1320130307232 Research and application of improving the range 
of horizontal well steam injection heating
Yining Wang, Xiaodong Wu, Ruihe 
Wang, Rong Chen, Han Wu
9:30AM-9:48AM
ICCES1320130122110 Research on influence rules of pore structure on 
water & polymer flooding using Micro-model
Yuan Ying-jie,Hou Ji-rui,Zhao Feng-
lan,Yu Chun-sheng,Zhang Feng-
min
9:48AM-10:13AM *keynote
ICCES1320130312244 Detailed molecular characterization of heavy alkyl 
benzene sulfonate used for chemical flooding
Gang Liu, Jirui Hou, Fenglan Zhao, 
Mingyuan Li, Chenyu Wu, 
Fenggang Wang, Hongda Hao
10:13AM-10:31AM
Theme Date: May-24 Room: E
Session Time: 1:30PM-3:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130421309 Aeroelastic Analysis of a Horizontal Axis Wind 
Turbine Blade and its Structural Monitoring using 
Fiber Bragg Grating Sensors
In Lee 1:30PM-2:00PM *award
ICCES1320121228030 Experimental flutter suppression: Wind tunnel 
testing
Jae-Hung Han, Jong-Won Lee, 
and Juho Lee
2:00PM-2:18PM
ICCES1320121228032 Dynamic Stability Enhancement of Thin Rotating 
Disks by Rim Reinforcement
Kyo-Nam Koo 2:18PM-2:36PM
ICCES1320130101048 Development of piezoelectric transducers for 
structural vibration monitoring and control
Lae-Hyong Kang, and Jung-Ryul 
Lee
2:36PM-3:01PM *keynote
ICCES1320130101049 Nonlinear Aeroelastic Characteristics of an 
Aircraft wing and Missile Control Fin
Jae-Sung Bae, In Lee, Seung-Kil 
Paek, and Sooyong Lee
3:01PM-3:26PM *keynote
Theme Date: May-24 Room: E
Session Time: 4:00PM-6:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130205139 The Model Design of Turbine Blade in Oil & Gas 
Drilling
Chunfei Tan,  Baoshan Guo 4:00PM-4:18PM
ICCES1320130120076 Study of LWD data visual interpretation and geo-
steering technology in real time
SHAO CaiRui, ZHANG FuMing, 
CHEN GuoXing, TANG HaiQuan, 
Cao XianJun
4:18PM-4:43PM *keynote
ICCES1320130308233 Quantitative Identification and 3D Modeling for 
Interlayer in Delta Reservoir
Yaru Wen, Shaochun Yang, Yan 
Wang
4:43PM-5:01PM
ICCES1320130304216 Permeation Mechanism and Optimal Design 
Method
Shao-hua Gu,  Yue-tian Liu, Long-
yu Han, Cheng-xia  Wu
5:01PM-5:19PM
ICCES1320130318257 Complex Formulation and Evaluation of Viscosity 
Reducer for Heavy Oil
Bo Peng, Shengke Li, Ying Li 5:19PM-5:37PM
Theme Date: May-25 Room: E
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:00AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320121210014 Numerical Analysis on Interaction between Two 
Zipped Wells with Continuum Damage Method
Xinpu Shen 8:00AM-8:25AM *keynote
ICCES1320130116061 An Efficient Method for Greening the Internet with 
Topology Optimization
Shijia Zhu, Yujing Zeng, Fei Song, 
Hongke Zhang
8:25AM-8:50AM *keynote
ICCES1320121204008 Hydraulic Fracture Propagation In Unconventional 
Reservoirs:The Role of Bedding Plane
Suling Wang,Yang Li,He 
Liu,Minzheng Jiang
8:50AM-9:08AM
ICCES1320121208011 A New Method to Achieve Equivalent Plastic 
Strain Explicit Form of J2 plastic Isotropic 
Kinematic hardening model and Numerical 
Verification
Peng Cao, Decheng Feng, 
Changjun zhou
9:08AM-9:26AM
ICCES1320121211015 Analysis on Building Foundation Pit Supporting 
Engineering Accidents
Han Zhang 9:26AM-9:44AM
ICCES1320121211016 ABAQUS-based Analysis of Settlement Induced 
by Tunnel Construction
Hong Yang 9:44AM-10:02AM
Multidisciplinary Analysis & Synthesis of Complex Systems
E05: Multiphysics Modeling and its Applications
Solid Mechanics
E03: Symposium in Honour of Prof. In Lee
Multidisciplinary Analysis & Synthesis of Complex Systems
E04: Calculations and Experiments for Petroleum Engineering (Multiphysics)
ICCES1320130203134 Modeling and simulation of the nonlinear 
computed torque control in Simulink/MATLAB for 
an industrial robot
Receanu Danut 8:36AM-9:01AM *keynote
ICCES1320130204135 Active Control of a Reduced Model of a Smart 
Structure
Nader Ghareeb and Ruediger 
Schmidt
9:01AM-9:19AM
ICCES1320130220173 Investigation of tissue thermal damage process 
with application of direct sensitivity method
Marek Jasinski 9:19AM-9:37AM
ICCES1320130313247 Simulating ferroelectric switching phenomena 
using 3D multiphysics Voronoi cells (MVC) based 
on radial basis functions and Washspress 
coordinates
Peter L. Bishay, Satya N. Atluri 9:37AM-9:55AM
Theme Date: May-27 Room: E
Session Time: 10:30AM-12:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130129128 On the generalized modal analysis of time-
dependent problems
Ney Augusto Dumont 10:30AM-10:55AM *keynote
ICCES1320130130129 Coupled flow-deformation analysis of unsaturated 
soils including hydraulic and mechanical 
hystereses effects
Nasser Khalili 10:55AM-11:13AM
ICCES1320130131132 An Arbitrary Shaped Inclusion with Imperfect 
Interface in Antiplane Elasticity
Les Sudak 11:13AM-11:31AM
ICCES1320130205140 NON-SINGULAR METHOD OF FUNDAMENTAL 
SOLUTIONS FOR COUPLED FLUID AND SOLID 
MECHANICS PROBLEMS
B. Sarler, Q. Liu 11:31AM-11:49AM
Theme Date: May-24 Room: F
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:30AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130310235 Experimental Stress Analysis: Advances by Dan 
Post
Daniel Post 8:00AM-9:00AM *theme
ICCES1320130328277 Photomechanics Methods as Applied to 
Microelectronics Product Development
B. Han 9:00AM-9:18AM
ICCES1320130324269 Fringe Projection Assisted Horizontal Impact 
Testing
Dan Schleh and Dahsin Liu 9:18AM-9:36AM
ICCES1320130316251 4D Cameras using grating projection method with 
LED light sources
Yoshiharu MORIMOTO, Akihiro 
MASAYA, Akifumi TAKAGI and 
Motoharu FUJIGAKI
9:36AM-9:54AM
ICCES1320130315250 Moire Interferometry applied to curved surfaces 
and residual stress measurement in rails- a tribute 
to Dan Post with some personal reflection
Fu-pen Chiang 9:54AM-10:19AM *keynote
Theme Date: May-24 Room: F
Session Time: 1:30PM-2:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130228204 A Multi-continuum Method for Studying the Effect 
of Inactive Fractures on Solute Transport in 2-D 
Discrete Fracture Network
Zhen Wang, Jonny Rutqvist, Ying 
Dai
1:30PM-1:48PM
ICCES1320130228206 Damage detection of metro tunnel structure 
through transmissibility function
Lei FENG, Xiongyao XIE 1:48PM-2:06PM
ICCES1320130118065 Soil-water-air full coupling analysis on slope 
failure in unsaturated soil
Y. L. Xiong, B. Ye, X. H. Bao and 
F. Zhang
2:06PM-2:31PM *keynote
Theme Date: May-24 Room: F
Session Time: 2:45PM-6:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130414301 Full-Field Recorded Displacements and their 
Derivatives
W. A. Samad, A. A. Khaja, D. R. 
Matthys and R. E. Rowlands
2:45PM-3:03PM
ICCES1320130308234 Measurement of Facial Strains for Studying 
Wrinkle Formation
S. Yoneyama, S. Arikawa, M. 
Murakami, M. Koike and O. Tanno
3:03PM-3:21PM
ICCES1320130412299 Using Moiré Interferometry to Measure Residual 
Stresses and Shrinkage
Peter Ifju 3:21PM-3:39PM
ICCES1320130425326 Scaled Experimental Simulation of the 2002 
Mw7.9 Denali Supershear Earthquake
Michael Mello, Harsha S. Bhat, 
Ares J. Rosakis
4:00PM-4:25PM *keynote
Experimental Mechanics
F01: Symposium in Honour of Prof. Daniel Post
Multidisciplinary Analysis & Synthesis of Complex Systems
F03: Symposium in Honour of Prof. Hehua Zhu, Advances in GeoTech Engng (Fra
Experimental Mechanics
F04: Symposium in Honour of Prof. Daniel Post
Multidisciplinary Analysis & Synthesis of Complex Systems
E10: Symposium in Honour of Prof. APS Selvadurai  (Multiphysics Modeling)
ICCES1320130420308 A study on the Site Effects using Earthquakes 
Data in the Korean Peninsula
K.J.PARK, J.K. KIM 2:13PM-2:31PM
ICCES1320130424320 Feasibility of a new building-integrated wind 
turbine system utilizing building skin
Jeongsu Park, Hyung-Jo Jung, 
Seung-Woo Lee, Jiyoung Park
2:31PM-2:49PM
ICCES1320130424321 Evaluation of Seismic Fragility Curves of Base 
Isolated Structures
Hyung-Jo Jung, Seung-Hyun Eem 2:49PM-3:14PM *keynote
ICCES1320130408293 Effect of Bioclogging on P-wave Responses in 
unconsolidated porous media
Tae-Hyuk Kwon, Jonathan B. Ajo-
Franklin
3:14PM-3:32PM
ICCES1320130424322 Optimal sensor placement for the structure ground 
vibration test based on master modes selection 
methodology
Xufei He, Zhongmin  Deng, Zhitao 
Song
4:00PM-4:18PM
Theme Date: May-27 Room: F
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:00AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320121228035 Flexible Stress Estimations of OLED Devices 
Packaging Using Analytical Solutions and 
Numerical Simulations of Stacking Thin-Films
Chang-Chun Lee 8:00AM-8:18AM
ICCES1320121229039 Modeling of Moisture Diffusion in Permeable 
Particle-Reinforced Epoxy Resins Using Three-
Dimensional Heterogeneous Hybrid Moisture 
Element Method
D.S. Liu, I.H. Lin, Z.W. Zhuang, 
C.L. Chung
8:18AM-8:36AM
ICCES1320121230042 Effect of discrete electordes on deformation of 
double clamped beam electrostaic actuator
Meng-Ju Lin 8:36AM-8:54AM
ICCES1320121230044 Taiwan’s Fuel Cell Backup Power System 
Demonstration Program
Chia-Mei Liu,Yi-li-Lin, Chao-Ho 
Lan,Fang-Hei Tsau, Sheng-Yuan 
Huang, Lih-Chyi Wen
8:54AM-9:12AM
ICCES1320130425324 Numerical Analysis on Dual Holes Interactions Chich-Kuan Chen 9:12AM-9:30AM
ICCES1320130118064 C-reactive Protein detection by directly measuring 
nanobead’s Brownian diffusion in evanescent 
wave field
Yu-Jui Fan, Zheng-Yu Chen, Yi-
Hsing Liu, and Horn-Jiunn Sheen
9:30AM-9:48AM
Theme Date: May-27 Room: F
Session Time: 10:30AM-12:30PM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130120086 Efficient Meshless Solutions to multi-dimensional 
integral and partial differential equations
Edward Kansa 10:30AM-10:48AM
ICCES1320130131131 BUCKLING RESPONSE OF FUNCTIONALLY 
GRADED PLATE SUBJECTED TO VARIOUS 
TYPES OF THERMAL LOADS
MOKHTAR. BOUAZZA, F. 
HAMMADI, E.A. ADDA-BEDIA
10:48AM-11:06AM
ICCES1320121217021 Mathematical Modeling for Emulsification Droplet 
Region in Iron Bath Reactor with H2-C Mixture 
Reduction
ZHANG Bo, ZHANG Huai-Wei, Niu 
Shuai, Li Wen-cai, LIANG Lisheng,  
WANG Dong-yan, HONG Xin
11:06AM-11:26AM
Theme Date: May-24 Room: G
Session Time: 8:00AM-10:30AM
Paper Title Author Time
ICCES1320130507346 Machining of Aerospace Materials Mike Watts 8:00AM-8:25AM
ICCES1320130507350 Machinability of Brittle Cellular Materials for 
Composite Tooling
Alex O' Oconnor  and M. Ramulu 8:25AM-8:50AM
ICCES1320130507351 One shot - dry - drilling of Composites/Aluminium  
hybrid stacked Materials in IT8 quality
Peter Mueller-Hummel and 
Abdelatif Atarsia
8:50AM-9:15AM
ICCES1320130507354 Process Speeds for Drilling and Reaming CFRP 
and CFRP/Metallic Stacks
John Barry 9:15AM-9:40AM
ICCES1320130507355 On-line Detection of Delamination when Drilling 
Composite Materials using Stereo Microphone 
Signal Processing
Eshetu Eneyew, M. Ramulu, S. 
Ramachandran Suresh and  Les 
Atlas
9:40AM-10:05AM
ICCES1320130507357 Diffusion Bonding and Friction Stir Welding of 
Dissimilar Titanium Alloys
Todd Marton, Brian Flinn and M. 
Ramulu
10:05AM-10:30AM
Solid Mechanics
F09: Symposium in Honour of Prof. Wen-Hwa Chen (Multiphysics)
ICCES Meshless Method 2013
F10: ICCESMM'13: on MLPG, Trefftz, MFS, BEM, and Other Meshless Methods
Advances in Materials Science and Engineering
G01: Material Processing and Manufacturing
Flexible Stress Estimations of OLED Devices Packaging Using Analytical Solutions 
and Numerical Simulations of Stacking Thin-Films 
 
Chang-Chun Leea) 
1Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University 
200, Chungpei Rd., Chungli City, Taoyuan County 32023, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
a) Corresponding author: changchunlee@cycu.edu.tw, Phone: (886) 3-265-4358, Fax: (886) 3-265-4399 
 
Abstract 
Organic light-emitting diode (OLED) displays have 
unique characteristics, namely, wide viewing angles, 
portability, and touchscreen capability, and are thinner and 
lighter than traditional displays. Such characteristics make 
OLED displays one of the preferred features for next-
generation flexible electronics. However, to maintain high 
luminous efficiency and achieve long-term operation, the 
possible failure modes of OLED devices that are embedded in 
the packaging structure need to be understood because a high 
flexural load is applied to the structure. These failure nodes 
can be understood by predicting the contour and estimating 
the magnitude of flexible stress in each film of OLED 
devices. Therefore, this research proposes an analytical 
solution which is based on thin film mechanics for flexible 
multi-stacked films. Moreover, nonlinear finite element 
analysis (FEA), which is based on the assumption of large 
deformation, and related experimental tests are utilized to 
verify the reliability of the mechanical model. Under different 
radii of bending curvatures, the accurate position of the 
neutral plane along the direction of total thickness, stiffness, 
and related stress distribution of each film is calculated by 
using the derived formula; the result is better than that 
predicted by FEA. The Young’s modulus and thickness of 
each film are the major factors that affect the stress magnitude 
and flexibility of the OLED device packaging structure. To 
explain the behaviors induced by the material properties of 
films, a parametric analysis of a cover plate within an OLED 
packaging structure is conducted. The results can be applied 
to the development of flexible electronics with a long lifespan 
and mechanical reliability.  
 
Keywords: OLED, Flexible stress, Finite element analysis 
(FEA), Package 
 
 
Fig. 1 Sketch of the stress distribution with derived 
mechanical models of multi-stacked thin films under 
flexible loading. 
 
1. Introduction 
The applications of flexible electronic products, 
particularly next-generation electronic display devices, impact 
people’s lives significantly. One of the key technologies for 
electronic display devices is the long-term mechanical 
reliability of a flexible package. The efficiency of an organic 
light-emitting diode (OLED) embedded in an ultra-thin soft 
substrate tends to decrease because of the characteristics of 
the material used for the substrate. Mechanical reliability is 
also influenced by two factors, namely, the location of OLED 
devices within the substrate, which are dependent on stress 
magnitude as a unique bending load is applied, and the level 
of fatigue bending stress or the bending curvature radius that 
is loaded on the packaging structure. Therefore, an estimation 
method for flexible stress for each film within the OLED 
packaging structure is necessary especially in the initial 
development stage. The interfacial adhesion of stacked films 
bonded to a laminate was inspected by monitoring changes in 
electrical resistance during a restrained buckling measurement 
until a fracture occurs [1]. The result indicates that tensile or 
compressive fractures of the films have nearly similar 
intensities. In addition, different material arrangements used 
for ultra-barriers are mainly highlighted to conform to the 
assembly requirements of a whole flexible OLED device with 
complicated multi-stacked film patterns [2–3]. To achieve 
high flexibility, a simulation is conducted to determine the 
thickness of the stress release layer applied to an OLED 
device; the layer is composed of Polyethylene Terephthalate 
(PET), buffer, indium tin oxide (ITO), OLED, and aluminum 
[4–5]. The mechanical flexibility of hyperelastic silicon 
rubber was previously investigated through a nonlinear FEA 
[6]. Brittleness, which is one of the failure modes, can be 
observed in some critical thin films, namely, the barrier and 
OLED layers, and ITO films [7]. Hence, the design of 
experiment tools is utilized to determine the mechanical 
behavior of an ultra-thin ITO film as it adheres to a PET 
substrate via its electrical resistance observed under a cycling 
flexural load [8]. Moreover, an original flexible-characteristic 
inspection system was developed to measure the bending 
parameters of flexible substrates [9]. Good structural 
flexibility can be obtained when stacked films are located in 
the nearby neutral plane (N.P.) of OLED packages [10–11]. 
To ensure that light efficiency can be sustained and reduce the 
stress impact of fatigue on the OLED device, this study 
develops a general formula for the stacked thin-film 
mechanical model under various bending radii. The proposed 
analytical solution is validated by using a vehicle, and the 
calculated results, particularly of flexible stress estimation for 
conventions for critical thin films such as OLED and ITO 
layers are resolved with the assistance of NP. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 2 Deformed configurations of a foldable package with 
multi-stacked thin films under a high bending load: (a) 
concave deformation; (b) convex deformation. 
 
2.2 Derivations of equivalent moment of inertia and 
stiffness for thin films 
Estimating the N.P. location in the thickness direction is 
essential as a key thin film with weak resistance to external 
moment is introduced into the whole OLED packaging 
structure. Consequently, structural stiffness is regarded as one 
of the dominant factors that affect NP location. Therefore, 
examining the overall structural stiffness by deriving the 
corresponding equivalent moments of inertia and stiffness for 
stacked films is necessary. The parallel axis theorem is 
typically used to calculate the moment of inertia (I) for an 
identical material with dissimilar geometrical dimensions of 
related width and thickness. I can be expressed as: 
3 2
NP NP
1I w d Ay
12
   (12)
where wNP and dNP denote the width and thickness of the 
region, respectively, in which the axis of NP is crossed. A is 
the area with a distance estimated from its centroid to the NP 
location. However, the relation of modulus ratio is required to 
transform sectional size to an equivalent material while taking 
multi-stacked films into consideration. The formal form of 
modulus ratio n for n layers could be expressed as 
i
i
1
En , i 1,2.,..., N
E
   (13)
Based on the sketch in Fig. 3, the I for n layers is 
consequently written as 
N
3 2
i i i i
i 1
1I n wd A y
12
   (14)
Referring to Fig. 3, Ai and yi in Eq. (14) are as follows: 
i i iA n wd  ii i
dy z N.P.
2
   (15)
where di and zi are the thickness of number i layer and its 
altitude calculated from the structural base, respectively. 
Then, the defined items are substituted into Eq. (14) to obtain 
the following equation: 
2N
3 i
i i i i i
i 1
d1I n wd n wd z N.P.
12 2
        (16)
In Eq. (16), zi can be also expressed as 
i
i k
k 1
z d

  0z 0  (17)
On the other hand, the equivalent moment of inertia per unit 
width I  can be expressed as 
2N
3 i
i i i i i
i 1
dI 1I n d n d z NA
w 12 2
         (18)
Moreover, based on Hooke’s law, with consideration for 
plane strain conditions, the Young’s modulus of the i layer 
under a pure bending load is expressed as follows: 
xi i xi
i 2
xi i
E yE
1 R
      xi
y
R
  (19)
Consequently, the equivalent stiffness with respect to the film 
at the structural base is finally obtained and shown below. 
x1
1
RE I I
y
  (20)
 
Fig. 3 Diagram of equivalent moment of inertia for stacked 
thin films. 
 
3. Finite element simulation of flexible packaging 
To validate the analytical solution derived for a flexible 
OLED package that is composed of multi-stacked thin films, a 
stress simulation based on the finite element method is 
conducted. The stacking sequence and related thickness of 
OLED devices are shown in Fig. 4(a). To avoid obstructing 
the light radiation of OLED, an ITO film, which is 
transparent, is utilized as the anode. In addition, three pairs of 
gas barriers which comprise a hard silicon nitride and a 
dielectric of silicon dioxide are designed to prevent steam 
A more flexible structure with a lower ITO stress could be 
achieved by using a thinner cover plate. Furthermore, a 
limitation of the bending radius of curvature as the yield 
strength of the ITO film equals ~1.2 GPa is introduced [12]. 
Under the foregoing failure criterion, the smallest bending 
range, namely, from ~3 mm to 4 mm, is observed upon an 
examination of the cover plate thickness. 
Similar results under convex loading are shown in Fig. 6. 
The N.P. location is invariant when an opposite loading 
direction is applied. Therefore, the same limited bending 
radius range is obtained. Moreover, the proposed derived 
formula validated the flexible stress that was obtained under 
an identical loading condition exerted on the OLED packages. 
As shown in Figs. 5 and 6, with the use of a 20 μm cover 
plate, the simulation result is better compared with the result 
obtained after calculating analytical solutions. In other words, 
the mechanical model of OLED packages under a high 
flexural load can reliably estimate the flexible stress and 
strain of each stacked film. 
 
Fig. 6 ITO flexible stress predictions of OLED packages for 
a different cover plate thickness under various convex 
bending loads. 
 
 
Fig. 7 Young’s modulus effects of cover plate on the 
variation of ITO flexible stress induced by different concave 
bending loads. 
 
4.2 Elastic modulus effect of cover plate 
A reduction in the Young’s modulus for a cover plate can 
lower the equivalent moment of inertia of an entire OLED 
packaging structure through the relation of modulus ratio. 
Several Young’s modulus values, including 50, 100, and 200 
GPa, are analyzed based on their effects on the flexible stress 
variations of the ITO film as a wide range of bending radii are 
applied. As shown in Fig. 7, the stress for all packaging 
structures is expected to increase when a smaller bending 
radius is loaded. However, when the radius is less than ~2.0 
cm, the flexible stress increases. The stability and 
repeatability of actual fabricated parameters at the deposited 
thickness and co-planarity of stacking films are crucial. A 
slight deviation in film thickness results in a significant 
increase of stress under a small bending radius. In addition, 
the related N.P. positions for the Young’s modulus equal to 
50, 100, and 200 GPa, which were estimated from the ITO 
film, have distances of 27.9, 31.31, and 33.36 μm, 
respectively, because a cover plate with a low Young’s 
modulus reduces stiffness. Among the investigated Young’s 
modulus ranges, a small difference (~3 mm to 4 mm) in the 
limitation for the foldable scope is obtained in accordance 
with the criterion of 1.2 GPa stress for the ITO film. In this 
analysis, a comparison indicated good agreement between the 
results of the proposed analytical solutions and those of the 
simulations in a case in which E = 100 GPa. Moreover, the 
effectiveness of the analytical solutions was confirmed by 
employing convex loads of bending radii, as indicated in Fig. 
8. 
 
 
Fig. 8 Young’s modulus effects of cover plate on the 
variation of ITO flexible stress induced by different convex 
bending loads. 
 
5. Conclusion 
To maintain the long-term mechanical reliability of a 
flexible OLED package under a high flexural load, a proper 
design with respect to both material properties and thickness 
of stacked thin films can achieve high structural flexibility 
and prevent stress-related failure. Ideally, to minimize the 
stress impact from external loads, critical films such as OLED 
and ITO films need to be placed close to the N.P.. This study 
developed a mechanical model of stacked thin films under the 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/10/03
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 使用矽穿孔技術接合三維晶片之封裝結構翹曲行為研究與可靠度分析
計畫主持人: 李昌駿
計畫編號: 100-2218-E-033-002-MY2 學門領域: 疲勞與損壞
無研發成果推廣資料
已獲得件數 0 0 100%  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
1.國際研討會 ISMP2012 邀請演講者(Invitation speaker), ＇Investigation 
of Thermal Stress on Interfacial Cracking Behavior in Advanced Electronic 
Packaging, ＇ 11th International Symposium on Microelectronics and 
Packaging (ISMP 2012)，首爾，南韓，October 10-11, 2012. 
2. Technical Program Committee Member of IEEE International Microsystem, 
Packaging, Assembly and Circuits Technology Conference (IMPACT 2011, 
IMPACT 2012)  
3. 中國機械工程學會第二十九屆全國學術研討會(CSME29) 論文發表分組主持
人(新興科技與其他領域)（2012） 
4. Session Co-Chair of IEEE International Microsystem, Packaging, 
Assembly and Circuits Technology Conference (IMPACT 2012). 
4. 榮獲中原大學 2012, 2013年「中原年輕學者」獎勵 
5.＇奈米薄膜標準技術論壇＇受邀出席專家，發表議題:＇奈米薄膜機械性質量
測＇，並刊登於經濟日報 101/10/04 之 A24 版 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
