(二) 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞： 
摘要 
本團隊嘗試以兩種不同設計之氣動式流體阻斷器，配合微流體聚焦方式產生微奈米乳
化液滴。除此之外更利用數值模擬及實驗之方式，進行各種晶片結構設計及液滴尺寸控制
之最佳化參數之探討，並測試產生微液滴尺寸之均勻性、均質性及安定性。 
本計劃中以單管道微型乳化晶片技術為基礎，以多管道式設計並配合氣動式流體阻斷
器完成微型多管道式乳化晶片。預期以本晶片之設計可有效完成大量產生高均勻性及均質
性之奈微米尺寸乳化晶片。此外，為有效達成實驗室晶片(Lab--on-chip, LOC)之目標，將利
用改良之微機電製程技術設計製作出氣動式微流體操控元件，並整合於微型乳化晶片。預
計發展之微型流體控制元件包含氣動式微幫浦及氣動式微閥門，藉由整合流體控制元件之
方式，可有效完成自動化流體進樣、動態控制微流體聚焦效果及不同尺寸液滴之分選工作，
以微型幫浦及微型閥門之最佳化參數設計完成控制乳化液滴之尺寸及針對不同尺寸之乳化
液滴進行分選。並利用實驗方式完成整合型乳化晶片之效能測試。本計劃所提出之自動化
微型乳化晶片設計可有效大量生產高均勻度之奈米等級乳化液滴之目的，並將此技術使用
於藥物傳輸，食品及化妝品等領域等領域之應用。 
 
關鍵詞: 微機電系統、乳化、奈微米乳化液滴、微流體 
 
(三) 報告內容： 
Summarize concisely the results obtained for each specific aim during the past year (or reporting 
period).  Negative results, if any, should also be included and approaches taken to improve the 
prospects of the project discussed. 
 
本計劃所提出之微型乳化晶片設計具有動態控制微液滴尺寸、可產生次微米及奈米等級
微液滴、自動化進樣及分選、及製程簡易等優點，可提供在藥物傳輸、食品及化妝品等產
業於乳化反應之應用。本計劃完成 3 個微型乳化晶片系統模組，包含 (1) Formation of 
Microdroplets in Liquids Utilizing Active Pneumatic Choppers on a Microfluidic Chip, (2) 
Droplet Formation Utilizing Controllable Moving-wall Structures for Double Emulsion 
Applications, and (3) Concentric Multiple-channel Emulsion Chips Utilizing Pneumatic 
Choppers for Biotechnology Applications。這 3 個模組之功能已經經過初步的測試及驗證，
以下將針對各模組提出簡要的說明及成果。微型流體控制元件包含氣動式微幫浦及氣動式
微閥門，藉由整合流體控制元件之方式，可有效完成自動化流體進樣、動態控制微流體聚
焦效果及不同尺寸液滴之分選工作，以微型幫浦及微型閥門之最佳化參數設計完成控制乳
化液滴之尺寸及針對不同尺寸之乳化液滴進行分選。本計劃並利用實驗方式完成整合型乳
化晶片之效能測試。本計劃所提出之自動化微型乳化晶片設計可有效大量生產高均勻度之
奈米等級乳化液滴之目的，並將此技術使用於藥物傳輸，食品及化妝品等領域等領域之應
用。 
 
(1) Formation of Microdroplets in Liquids Utilizing Active Pneumatic Choppers on a 
Microfluidic Chip 
Monodispersed emulsions are of great significance for a variety of applications. The current study 
reports a new microfluidic system capable of formation of microdroplets in liquids for 
emulsification applications. This new emulsion chip can precisely generate uniform droplets 
using a novel combination of hydrodynamic-focusing and liquid-chopping techniques. 
Experimental data show that microdroplets with diameters ranging from 6 to 100 microns with a 
variation less than 3 % can be precisely generated. The size of the droplets is tunable using three 
approaches including adjusting the relative sheath/sample flow velocity ratios, the applied air 
pressure and the applied chopping frequency. Moreover, focusing and chopping of multiple flows 
has been demonstrated to increase the emulsion process throughput. 
In this study, we develop a new microfluidic chip capable of generating uniform and tunable sizes 
of droplets by using micro-choppers. Besides, droplets with different sizes can be collected into 
specific collection area by using micro-switches. This microfluidic chip was made by using 
simple and reliable fabrication techniques involving a SU-8 standard lithography and a 
polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) replication processes. The micro-choppers and micro-switches 
were activated by compressed air controlled by electromagnetic valves (EMV). Experimental 
results indicated that the microfluidic chip can generate micro-droplets with uniform and tunable 
sizes and switch droplets with different sizes into each collection area. In this study, we used the 
microfluidic technology to generate uniform micro-scale droplets in liquids and enhance the 
emulsion quality. Two examples using olive oil and the Na-alginate have been demonstrated for 
emulsion applications. Droplets with diameters ranging from 3 μm to 70 μm with a variation less 
than 7% can be successfully generated and collected. 
 
Figure 1. The relationship between the average size of Na-alginate droplets and the chopping 
frequency at various relative sheath and sample flow velocity ratios. 
 
 Oil 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 2. The microfluidic chip successfully generated and switched the uniform o/w emulsion 
V1/V2=18
V1/V2=30
V1/V2=60
 Chopping frequency (Hz)
 10  20 30 40 0 
 20 
 40 
 60 
 80 
 
V1/V2=1
8 
A
ve
ra
ge
 d
ia
m
et
er
 (u
m
)
250μm 
  
droplets range from 50.32 to 14.76 μm with a variation less than 4.62% under the same applied 
air pressures. For double emulsions, sizes of the external and internal droplets can be fine-tuned 
with external/internal droplet diameter ratios ranging from 1.42 to 2.06. The development of the 
microfluidic device can be promising for a variety of applications such as drug delivery, 
cosmetics and food industry. 
 In this study, we report a new microfluidic device capable of double emulsions by using two 
types of moving-wall structures. By using simple and reliable polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) 
fabrication process, the first controllable moving-wall structure near the T-junction microchannels 
can be activated under specific applied air pressure to fine-tune the size of the internal droplets. 
After the first emulsion stream passes through the downstream of the flow-focusing zone, the 
double emulsion microdroplets with a uniform diameter can be generated by another pair of 
moving-wall structures. The size of the external droplets can be also fine-tuned by the applied 
pressure of compressed air or the width of the pre-focusing flow. With this approach, the 
proposed microfluidic chip can generate double emulsion microdroplets with uniform sizes. 
 Formation of emulsion droplets in T-junction microchannels had been reported in previous 
literatures. The sizes of droplets in immiscible liquids can be fine-tuned by flow rates from two 
channels by using syringe pumps. It can generate droplets by using the flow instability caused by 
the interfacial force and the shear force. When the shear force is higher than the interfacial force, 
the breakup of dispersed droplets can be generated. The higher the continuous/dispersed velocity 
ratio is, the smaller the droplet size can be generated. In this study, we proposed a new device 
which allows us to locally change the flow velocity ratios without using syringe pumps to change 
the continuous/dispersed flow velocity ratios. A controllable moving-wall structure was designed 
near the intersection of the T-junction channels. The droplets size can be actively controlled by 
the deformation of the controllable moving-wall structure without changing the velocity ratio. 
Both oil-in-water and water-in-oil emulsions were demonstrated successfully. As shown in Fig. 
5(a), the size of o/w emulsion droplets could be fine-tuned using different applied air pressures. 
The average diameters for these four cases are 50.07, 43.09, 35.93, and 21.80 μm for 
corresponding applied air pressures of 10, 15, 20, 25 psi, respectively, under a fixed 
continuous/dispersed flow ratio of 1600. The coefficients of variation are 1.28, 2.78, 1.61, and 
3.53%, respectively. It can be seen that the bigger the applied pressure is the smaller droplet size 
is under the same continuous/dispersed flow velocity ratio. The deformation of controllable 
moving-wall structure squeezes the continuous-phase flow locally and increase the flow velocity 
near the intersection of the T-junction channels. It therefore increases the shear force to form 
droplets with smaller diameters. Notably, the droplets size can be also fine-tuned by the 
continuous/dispersed flow velocity ratio. Experimental data show that the average sizes are 57.28, 
50.12 and 35.93 μm, for corresponding flow velocity ratios of 800, 1200 and 1600, respectively 
at an applied pressure of 20 psi. At each flow velocity ratio, the proposed controllable moving 
wall structure can successfully produce smaller droplets, as shown in Fig. 5(b).  
In addition to o/w emulsions, w/o emulsion droplets can be also formed successfully by this 
microfluidic chip. Note that the surface of the microchannels must be hydrophobic in this case. 
Olive oil and sodium-alginate (1.5%) were used to be continuous and dispersed phase flows, 
respectively. Figure 6 shows the relationship between the diameter of sodium-alginate droplets in 
oil and the applied air pressure under various continuous/dispersed flow velocity ratios. Similarly, 
(a)  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample C (V3)
Sample collection reservoir
Compressed air 
Compressed air 
(b) (c)
(V2) 
Sample A (V1) 
Sample B
Controllable moving-wall Pneumatic choppers 
 
Figure 4. (a) Schematic illustration of the microfluidic chip for formation of double emulsion 
microdroplets equipped with a controllable moving-wall structure and a pair of pneumatic 
choppers. (b) The controllable moving-wall structure was used to fine-tune the size of internal 
droplets at the intersection of T-junction microchannels. (c) The pneumatic choppers were used to 
squeeze the emulsion flow such that the breakup of the flow can generate double emulsion 
microdroplets. 
  
  
  
  
 
(a-1) (a-2) 
(a-3) (a-4)
(a)  
   
   
(a) (b)
(c) (d)  
Figure 7. A series of photographs showing w/o/w double emulsion microdroplets with different 
sizes of external and internal droplets at a fixed flow velocity ratio (V1:V2:V3 = 1:60:2000). The 
diameters of external and internal droplets are listed in Table 1. The coefficients of variation for 
external and internal droplets were less than 4.95 and 5.52 %, respectively. 
 
Table 1. The applied pressures for the controllable moving-wall structure, the pneumatic choppers 
and generated sizes of the internal and external droplets at a fixed flow velocity ratio (V1:V2:V3 
= 1:60:2000). Note that d2 /d1 is the ratio of external/ internal droplet sizes. 
Applied pressure for 
the controllable 
moving-wall 
structure (psi) 
0 0 20 20 
Applied pressure for 
the pneumatic 
choppers (psi) 
10 20 10 30 
Droplet size (μm) 
d2: external droplet 
d1: internal droplet 
d2=165.21 
d1=80.43 
d2=135.71 
d1=81.03 
d2=164.87 
d1=60.38 
d2=85.81 
d1=61.09 
d2 / d1 2.06 1.69 2.75 1.42 
  
 
 
 
 
 
sample flow velocity ratios at different chopping frequencies. Four chopping frequencies (3.42Hz, 
4.89 Hz, 6.90Hz and 13.84Hz) at a pneumatic pressure of 20 psi were used in this test. The 
diameter of the droplets decreases as the chopping frequency increases. At a chopping frequency 
of 13.84Hz, droplets with a diameter of 6 μm are successfully generated. 
 
(c) Biotechnology Applications 
(c-1) Formation of Ca-alginate droplets 
The generation of Ca-alginate microdroplets using the liquid-chopping technique is shown 
in Figure 12 (a). The dispersed phase fluids and the continuous phase fluids were Na-alginate 
solution (sample flows) and olive oil (sheath flows), respectively. These fluids were pumped into 
the microchannel by using syringe pumps.  In this case, the PDMS channel was bonded with a 
PDMS substrate. Therefore, hydrophobic surface of the PDMS can be used for w/o droplet 
formation. The combination of hydrodynamic flow focusing and liquid-chopping techniques can 
generate water-in-oil (w/o) Na-alginate emulsions (as shown in Figure 12 (b)). Finally, the 
Na-alginate emulsion droplets were guided to a calcium (II) ion solution reservoir to form 
Ca-alginate micro-spheres. In order to collect Ca-alginate micro-spheres from oil, they were 
washed thoroughly with acetone and DI water three times. The micro-spheres were vacuum dried 
and baked in oven at 45 ℃  for 2 hours. Experimental data show that the developed 
multiple-channel emulsion chip is capable of generating uniform micro-droplets (6-120μm) with 
a variation less than 3.75%. The droplets size was measured by taking CCD images and digitally 
processed by using image analysis software. 
(c-2) Formation of collagen droplets 
The w/o collagen emulsion droplets can be formed using similar experimental setup as 
shown in Figure 13(a). The high throughput multiple-channel emulsion chip was used to generate 
collagen micro-droplets which were collected into beakers and heated on a hotplate at 37℃. 
During the incubation process, the collagen droplets were kept stationary to avoid merging of the 
droplets. Polymerized collagen spheres were then formed after 2 hours as shown in Figure 13(c). 
The average diameter of the collagen particles is measured to be about 40μm with a variation of 
7.7%. The size of collagen particle is almost the same as its droplet form. With this approach, we 
can generate collagen micro-spheres with tunable droplet sizes using simple and low-cost process. 
Besides, throughput of the collagen micro-spheres can be increased by using multiple-channel 
layout, which could be promising for drug delivery systems and pharmaceutical applications. 
By controlling the flow rate ratio between the dispersed and continuous phases with a range 
from 2 to 20, emulsions with droplet sizes ranging from 6-120μm were successfully generated 
and observed. 
 
(a)
(b)
(c)
 
120um 
120um 
120um 
 
Figure 10 Formation of monodispersed olive oil emulsion droplets using active pneumatic 
choppers. (a) 120 μm, (b) 60 μm, (c) 6 μm. 
 
 
0 4 8 12 16 20
0
40
80
120
160
D
ro
pl
et
 D
ia
m
et
er
 (μ
m
)
◇ FEMV  = 3.42   Hz
□ FEMV = 4.89   Hz
○ FEMV = 6.90   Hz
△ FEMV = 13.84 Hz
v2 / v1  
Figure 11 The relation between the average droplet diameter and the relative sheath and sample 
flow velocities at various driving frequencies. 
 
Olive oil
Collagen
Olive oil
Collagen particles
Collagen
emulsion
(a)
Hot Plate (37℃)
(b)
(c)
50μm
100μm
 
Figure 13 Schematic illustration of the experimental setup for collagen droplets: (a) Collagen 
emulsion was incubated at 37℃ for 2 hours. (b) Mono-dispersed collagen emulsions are 
produced in the microchannel. The droplet size is 40 μm. (c) The image of collagen sphere fiber 
after being incubated for 2 hours. 
