 2
Comprehension differences between print and screen reading for middle-aged 
computer novices 
Jyh-Rong Chou 
Department of Product Design, Fortune Institute of Technology, Kaohsiung 831, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
Reading can be regarded as an interactive modality between readers and material they read, by 
means of different types of media. A within-subjects method was used in this study which 
analyzes the difference in the level of understanding of the two presentational formats—text on 
printed pages and hypertext on computer screens—for people between 45−54 years of age (i.e. 
“middle-aged” adults). In the experimental findings, there were no significant differences 
between the levels of comprehension for print and screen presentations. With regard to individual 
differences in gender, age group, and educational level, the findings are as follows: gender and 
education effects on print reading comprehension performance were significant while those on 
screen reading comprehension performance were not. For middle-aged computer novices, the 
main effect of age group on both print and screen reading comprehension performances was 
insignificant. Comparatively, linear texts of traditional paper-based material are better for 
middle-aged readers’ literal text comprehension, while hypertext is beneficial to their inferential 
text comprehension. 
 
 
Keywords: Reading comprehension; Individual differences; Hypertext; Older adults; Novices 
 
 
 
 
1. Introduction 
Reading can be regarded as an interactive modality between readers and material they read by 
means of different types of media. With the continuing advances of information technology, 
computers have emerged into the mainstream of present day society. People now have greater 
opportunities to receive information directly from computer screens. However, many users, 
particularly older adult computer novices, cannot get used to operating a computer with a mouse 
or keyboard device, while others have trouble reading and remembering information presented on 
a computer screen. A previous study has found that comprehension was worse and reading was 
slower when reading from a computer screen compared with printed text [1]. This finding, 
however, was attributed to the subjects’ lack of familiarity with computers and reading from 
screens. Dillon in a review of performance comparisons for reading from screen and print 
indicated that although the evidence was inconclusive, there appeared to be a problem for screen 
reading [2]. Reading comprehension is a vital issue in human behavior and HCI research areas, 
 4
totaling the number of correct answers given. Each correct response scored one point with the full 
score being ten points in each reading comprehension test. All statistical analyses were computed 
using SPSS software. The framework of the experimental procedure is shown in Figure 1. 
 
Table 1. List of the identified questions 
Content issue Key word Question 
Product Which product was promoted in this advertisement? 
Company Which company held this promotional activity? 
Type 1: 
Name-related 
issue Person Who did the company invite to advertise the promotional activity? 
Number What was the special phone number for consumer service? 
Amount How many types of product were contained in the promotion? 
Type 2: 
Numeral issue 
Date When was the deadline of this promotional activity? 
Type 3: 
Thematic issue 
Slogan What was the major slogan of this promotional activity? 
Compensation 
measure 
How did the company compensate customers according to the guarantee they 
received upon purchase? 
Preferential scheme What was the preferential scheme for ordering the designated types of product?
Type 4: 
Clausal issue 
Installment plan Which alternative was not included in the installment plans? 
 
 
 
3. Results 
3.1 Comprehension differences between print and screen reading 
The mean score of comprehension measures in print reading was 5.36 (S.D.=1.49) while that 
in screen reading was 5.50 (S.D.=1.82). Screen reading was better than print reading in terms of 
the mean score results. A one-way ANOVA was used to determine whether significant differences 
existed between the comprehension measures. The result showed that the comprehension 
differences between print and screen reading were not statistically significant at the level of 
0.05α =  ( ( )1, 286 0.501, 0.48 0.05F P= = > , confirming the null hypothesis H1). The correct rates of 
the print reading comprehension test questions were 92.1% in type 1, 42.1% in type 2, 56.9% in 
Experimental material
Print reading comprehension test Screen reading comprehension test Computer training
One-page printed paper Four-node hypertext system 
(2-3 weeks of a computer-training program)
Null hypothesis H2 Null hypothesis H3 
Null hypothesis H6 Null hypothesis H7 
Print reading comprehension scoring Screen reading comprehension scoring 
Analysis of variance 
(one-way ANOVA)
 (at the significant 
level of 0.05α = )
Confirmed ? Rejected ?
Null hypothesis H1
Null hypothesis H4 Null hypothesis H5 
Figure 1. Framework of the experimental design 
 6
(S.D.=1.49) for the middle education subjects, and 5.40 (S.D.=1.69) for the high education 
subjects. In the screen reading test, the mean scores of comprehension measures were 5.09 
(S.D.=1.34) for the low education subjects, 5.43 (S.D.=1.93) for the middle education subjects, 
and 6.00 (S.D.=1.74) for the high education subjects. It appears the middle-aged computer 
novices that have higher education had better reading comprehension. However, the result of 
ANOVA showed that the main effect of educational level on print reading comprehension 
performance was statistically significant ( ( )2,141 3.249, 0.042 0.05F P= = < , rejecting the null 
hypothesis H6), while that on screen reading comprehension performance was not significant 
( ( )2,141 1.757, 0.176 0.05F P= = > , confirming the null hypothesis H7). Of the three different subject 
groups, the low education subject group had the best comprehension performance in Type 1 but 
the worst in Type 4 questions within the print reading test. Both the low education and high 
education subject groups made an obvious comprehension improvement in Type 2 and Type 4, 
while both the middle education and high education subject groups did worse in Type 3 questions 
within the screen reading test. 
 
 
4. Concluding remarks 
In the experimental findings, there were no significant differences between levels of reading 
comprehension for print and screen presentations in terms of middle-aged computer novices. 
With regard to individual differences in gender, age group, and educational level, gender and 
education effects on print reading comprehension performance were significant while those on 
screen reading comprehension performance were not significant. To middle-aged computer 
novices, the main effect of age group on both print and screen reading comprehension 
performances was insignificant. Print reading for middle-aged subjects had a relatively higher 
level of comprehension performance towards the name-related content issue, while screen 
reading elicited an obvious comprehension improvement in terms of the clausal content issue 
within the reading comprehension test. As a whole, linear texts of traditional paper-based material 
are better for middle-aged readers’ literal text comprehension, which tells us that a familiar 
presentation helps them to locate and memorize information for visual search tasks. Hypertext, on 
the other hand is beneficial to their inferential text comprehension since its interactive flexibility 
supports them to review and integrate information for yielding a deeper understanding of the text. 
Further research should focus on analyzing how the middle-aged adults’ cognitive processes 
relate to hypertext/hypermedia navigation in terms of their inferential abilities on reading 
comprehension. 
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-268-002 
計畫名稱 中高齡電腦初學者在螢幕與紙本閱讀理解差異之分析研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
周志榮 
和春技術學院商品設計系副教授兼技術合作處處長 
會議時間地點 2007/7/22－2007/7/27；北京國際會議中心 
會議名稱 HCI International 2007 
發表論文題目 Comprehension differences between print and screen reading for middle-aged computer novices 
 
一、參加會議經過 
    本會議為第 12 屆人與電腦互動國際研討會，每 2年舉行一次，1999 年於德國、2001 及
2005 年於美國、2003 年於希臘。今年主辦單位結合 Symposium on Human Interface (Japan) 
2007…等 8個國際知名機構,於北京國際會議中心共同辦理 HCI International 2007。會議
議程六天，超過 250 場之平行會議，提供國際間 HCI 領域研究學者，研討人與電腦互動之相
關技術與研究成果。2007 年 7 月 22 日搭乘港龍航空由高雄飛抵香港，轉機抵達北京首都機
場，7月 23 日報到、領取會議資料，並參加五場次之 Parallel paper presentations，7 月
26 日搭機至香港並停留 2天，7月 28 日返回高雄。 
 
 
 
 
 
二、與會心得 
    HCI 為國際間熱門的研究主題，橫跨眾多學術領域。本次參加研討會除發表
Comprehension differences between print and screen reading for middle-aged computer 
novices 研究論文外，並參加五場次之 Parallel paper presentations 包含 Information in 
Human Environment, Scenario-based Design in Asia, Design for Effective Online User 
Experience, Older Adults and Technology: Understanding and improving the User 
Experience, and Ergonomic Design 等 title sections。其中，Older Adults and Technology: 
Understanding and improving the User Experience, and Ergonomic Design 與個人目前
研究主題有關，藉由參加本次研討會，認識各國學者並了解目前國際間有關人與電腦互動領
域之發展動向與研究成果，對於後續研究方向擬訂，助益良多。 
 
 3
Comprehension Differences between Print and Screen 
Reading for Middle-Aged Computer Novices 
Jyh-Rong Chou 
Department of Product Design, Fortune Institute of Technology, Kaohsiung 831, Taiwan 
Abstract. Reading can be regarded as an interactive modality between readers and 
material they read, by means of different types of media. A within-subjects method 
was used in this study which analyzes the difference in the level of understanding 
of the two presentational formats—text on printed pages and hypertext on 
computer screens—for people between 45−54 years of age (i.e. “middle-aged” 
adults). In the experimental findings, there were no significant differences between 
the levels of comprehension for print and screen presentations. With regard to 
individual differences in gender, age group, and educational level, the findings are 
as follows: gender and education effects on print reading comprehension 
performance were significant while those on screen reading comprehension 
performance were not. For middle-aged computer novices, the main effect of age 
group on both print and screen reading comprehension performances was 
insignificant. Comparatively, linear texts of traditional paper-based material are 
better for middle-aged readers’ literal text comprehension, while hypertext is 
beneficial to their inferential text comprehension. 
 
Keywords: Reading comprehension; Individual differences; Hypertext; Older 
adults; Novices 
1   Introduction 
Reading can be regarded as an interactive modality between readers and material they 
read by means of different types of media. With the continuing advances of information 
technology, computers have emerged into the mainstream of present day society. People 
now have greater opportunities to receive information directly from computer screens. 
However, many users, particularly older adult computer novices, cannot get used to 
operating a computer with a mouse or keyboard device, while others have trouble 
reading and remembering information presented on a computer screen. A previous study 
has found that comprehension was worse and reading was slower when reading from a 
computer screen compared with printed text [1]. This finding, however, was attributed to 
the subjects’ lack of familiarity with computers and reading from screens. Dillon in a 
review of performance comparisons for reading from screen and print indicated that 
although the evidence was inconclusive, there appeared to be a problem for screen 
reading [2]. Reading comprehension is a vital issue in human behavior and HCI research 
areas, which is influenced by reader’s mental representation, cognitive ability, and 
individual differences in age, gender, prior knowledge, and educational background. 
發表論文 
 5
contained in the elementary course: (1) Windows operating system (12 hrs), (2) 
Microsoft Word (18 hrs), and (3) Internet and electronic mail (6 hrs). The material used 
in the experiment was a commercial advertisement document. The document presented a 
sales promotion by a local distributor of household electrical appliances advertising 
different models of a specific product. According to the QUEST model [6][7], the author 
categorized the contents of document by the following four types of issues: 
name-related, numeral, thematic, and clausal issues, and also identified ten questions for 
the questionnaire survey as shown in Table 1. To assess the subjects’ comprehension, a 
score was derived by totaling the number of correct answers given. Each correct 
response scored one point with the full score being ten points in each reading 
comprehension test. All statistical analyses were computed using SPSS software. The 
framework of the experimental procedure is shown in Figure 1. 
3   Results 
Comprehension Differences between Print and Screen Reading 
The mean score of comprehension measures in print reading was 5.36 (S.D.=1.49) while 
that in screen reading was 5.50 (S.D.=1.82). Screen reading was better than print reading 
in terms of the mean score results. A one-way ANOVA was used to determine whether 
significant differences existed between the comprehension measures. The result showed 
that the comprehension differences between print and screen reading were not 
statistically significant at the level of 0.05α =  ( ( )1, 286 0.501, 0.48 0.05F P= = > , 
confirming the null hypothesis H1). The correct rates of the print reading comprehension 
test questions were 92.1% in type 1, 42.1% in type 2, 56.9% in type 3, and 25.5% in type 
Experimental material
Print reading comprehension test Screen reading comprehension test Computer training
One-page printed paper Four-node hypertext system
(2-3 weeks of a computer-training program)
Null hypothesis H2 Null hypothesis H3
Null hypothesis H6 Null hypothesis H7
Print reading comprehension scoring Screen reading comprehension scoring 
Analysis of variance 
(one-way ANOVA)
 (at the significant 
level of 0.05α = )
Confirmed ? Rejected ?
Null hypothesis H1
Null hypothesis H4 Null hypothesis H5
Figure 1. Framework of the experimental design 
 7
middle education subjects, and 6.00 (S.D.=1.74) for the high education subjects. It 
appears the middle-aged computer novices that have higher education had better reading 
comprehension. However, the result of ANOVA showed that the main effect of 
educational level on print reading comprehension performance was statistically 
significant ( ( )2,141 3.249, 0.042 0.05F P= = < , rejecting the null hypothesis H6), while that 
on screen reading comprehension performance was not significant 
( ( )2,141 1.757, 0.176 0.05F P= = > , confirming the null hypothesis H7). Of the three 
different subject groups, the low education subject group had the best comprehension 
performance in Type 1 but the worst in Type 4 questions within the print reading test. 
Both the low education and high education subject groups made an obvious 
comprehension improvement in Type 2 and Type 4, while both the middle education and 
high education subject groups did worse in Type 3 questions within the screen reading 
test. 
4   Concluding Remarks 
In the experimental findings, there were no significant differences between levels of 
reading comprehension for print and screen presentations in terms of middle-aged 
computer novices. With regard to individual differences in gender, age group, and 
educational level, gender and education effects on print reading comprehension 
performance were significant while those on screen reading comprehension performance 
were not significant. To middle-aged computer novices, the main effect of age group on 
both print and screen reading comprehension performances was insignificant. Print 
reading for middle-aged subjects had a relatively higher level of comprehension 
performance towards the name-related content issue, while screen reading elicited an 
obvious comprehension improvement in terms of the clausal content issue within the 
reading comprehension test. As a whole, linear texts of traditional paper-based material 
are better for middle-aged readers’ literal text comprehension, which tells us that a 
familiar presentation helps them to locate and memorize information for visual search 
tasks. Hypertext, on the other hand is beneficial to their inferential text comprehension 
since its interactive flexibility supports them to review and integrate information for 
yielding a deeper understanding of the text. Further research should focus on analyzing 
how the middle-aged adults’ cognitive processes relate to hypertext/hypermedia 
navigation in terms of their inferential abilities on reading comprehension. 
References 
[1] Belmore, S.M. (1985). Reading computer-presented text. Bulletin of the Psychonomic Society, 23(1), 
12-14. 
[2] Dillon, A. (1992). Reading from paper versus screens: a critical review of the empirical literature. 
Ergonomics, 35(10), 1297-1326. 
[3] Mayes, D.K., Sims, V.K., & Koonce, J.M. (2001). Comprehension and workload differences for 
VDT and paper-based reading. International Journal of Industrial Ergonomics, 28, 367-378. 
