 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-006-061 
執行期限：94 年 7 月 1 日至 95 年 6 月 30 日 
主持人：呂執中   成功大學工業與資訊管理學系 
 
中文摘要 
協同設計意味整合參與產品開發流程
之顧客與供應商的設計能力，以有效縮短產
品研發時間與成本。而隨著產品開發流程日
益複雜，以及設計鏈對於縮短產品開發週期
時間的要求，使得協同設計之推動更顯重要
亦有其困難性。設計架構矩陣（Design 
Structure Matrix, DSM）為分析產品開發流
程中重要的工具，其能表示流程資訊的順序
以及相依關係，而廣泛應用於跨組織之複雜
產品開發流程週期時間之改善。因此，本研
究建構系統化之產品協同開發流程分析架
構，應用二元二維的設計架構矩陣，探討產
品開發流程應用協同設計的關鍵步驟，並衡
量協同設計對於產品開發週期時間的效
益。本研究亦藉由個案公司之實證資料以驗
證分析論架構與數量化模式。 
關鍵詞：協同設計、供應商早期參與、產品
開發週期時間、設計架構矩陣 
Abstract 
Early supplier involvement is widely 
applied to improve the product development 
process and has been proven to be able to 
shorten product development cycle time.  
This study presents a systematic approach to 
support enterprises in selecting suitable tasks 
for implementing early supplier involvement.  
In order to estimate the influence of early 
supplier involvement on product development 
cycle time, the proposed method analyzes 
complex product development processes to 
determine how to implement collaborative 
design appropriately via design structure 
matrix.  This approach integrates an analysis 
of the binary design structure matrix, 
two-dimensional variables （sensitivity and 
variability） and the amount of overlapping of 
the tasks to discuss complex issues associated 
with product development cycle time.  By 
applying the influence analysis to overlapping, 
this study identifies suitable tasks and the 
priority of each task to collaborative design.  
Finally, a simplified case study is discussed to 
demonstrate how enterprises can utilize the 
proposed method. 
Keywords: Collaborative design; Early 
supplier involvement; Product 
development cycle time; Design 
structure matrix 
 
1. 研究動機與目的 
現今產業的競爭型態不再只著重於產
品的成本與品質，使得新產品開發（Product 
Development, PD）日益重要且成為企業成功
的重要因素（Yassine, Sreenivas, & Zhu, 
2008）。因此，許多企業為了提升獲利率、
專注於核心技術的發展，有將產品系統元件
外包的趨勢（McIvor, Humphreys, & Cadden, 
2006），讓產品開發的管理不只需要考量企
業產品研發流程的最佳化，還需要考量與上
下游供應商、顧客的協同（Chung, Yam, & 
Chan, 2004; Noori & Lee, 2004）。故企業建
立協同之設計鏈，能夠有效縮短產品開發流
程時間、降低成本並提升產品之品質，使協
同設計成為更經濟快速開發出創新產品的
有效方式（Farrukh, Fraser, & Gregory, 2003; 
Yesilbas, Rose, & Lombard, 2006）。 
因此，企業必須採用更有效率與有效果
 3
產品開發流程的影響。 
本研究所提出之方法步驟如圖 1 所
示，並於下列各節說明。 
圖 1  協同時間效益分析方法 
3.1 假設與符號定義 
本研究之基本假設延伸 WTM 之假設，
說明如下： 
(1) 所有的工作會在每一個重複階段
完成，即每一階段中的工作會同時
進行。 
(2) 重工量是前一重複階段工作量的
函數。 
(3) 重工比率、工作時間兩個工作轉換
矩陣的參數，不隨時間改變。 
(4) 在理想的協同環境下重疊，不會增
加重工量。 
以下說明模式中會用到的參數： 
W ：代表各工作時間的對角線矩陣； 
A ：為非對角線的工作轉換矩陣； 
O：流程中各工作可重疊時間的對角線
矩陣； 
n ：產品開發流程所進行之重複次數； 
B ：理想協同環境下，各工作所獲得的
時間效益向量； 
tu ：表示第 t 的階段完成的工作量。在
一開始也就是 t=0 的階段，各工作
的工作量皆為 1，表示所有工作都
被完成一次。 
3.2 建置二元二維矩陣 
在產品研發流程中，所有工作都可以利
用趕工的方式來縮短時間，然而並非所有的
流程都可以重疊，因為不適合重疊的工作，
重疊後會大幅提昇流程重複的風險，本研究
應用透過二維二元矩陣以判斷流程中適合
進行重疊之工作，且以二元的 0、1 數值判
定工作之間的變異度與敏感度，作為判斷工
作是否可以提前進行的依據。採用二元的
0、1 判定方法，主要是使用二元的判斷方
式，在表達工作關係上將更為容易辨識、也
容易為工程師建構並使用。 
本研究對於變異度、敏感度屬性值的定
義如表 1 所示。變異度代表後項工作對於前
項工作結果的預測程度，變異度為 1 表示該
項工作能夠從前項工作得到可預測且穩定
的結果。而敏感度代表後項工作對前項工作
輸出資訊改變的敏感程度，敏感度高，代表
後面工作受前面工作輸出資訊的影響重大。 
表 1  變異度與敏感度屬性值定義表 
 
將 （1, 1）、（1, 0）、（0, 1）、（0, 0）四
類的工作關係特性填入 DSM 矩陣中，則形
成二元二維之變異度與敏感度矩陣 vsM 來表
示。 
3.3 評估工作重疊量 
重疊量表示在產品開發流程各工作藉
由協同設計，如供應商早期參與、同步工
程、產品資料管理系統等方式，將後項工程
移至與前項工程同時開始，所能夠縮減時間
的程度。 
當前面工作變異度高，本身工作敏感度
高，因為後項工程可以獲得正確的預測結
果，且不易受到資訊變動的影響，因此，此
項工作很適合進行協同設計；在前面工作變
異性高、後面工作敏感度低的情況下，可以
透過凍結前面的資訊，讓後面工作提早進
行，來達成協同設計的效果；當前面工作變
異性低、後面工作敏感度高時，後面工作可
以在沒有重大的風險情況下使用前面的工
作資訊；但是當前面工作變異性低、本身工
作敏感度低，此種情況則非常不適合進行協
同設計。總而言之，就變異度和敏感度的觀
點，產品開發流程中的協同設計存在於二維
二元矩陣中（1, 1）、（1, 0）、（0, 1）的三種
情形中，而不存在於（0, 0）的工作關係。 
在（1, 1）、（1, 0）、（0, 1）的三種可進
行協同設計的情形中，（1, 1）的工作關係最
適合進行協同設計，目標工作適合與前項工
作同步進行，期望可重疊時間為前項工作時
 5
義期望的可重疊量 a、b 值均設為 0.5。其次
則是找出前項關鍵工作及工作時間矩陣，以
建構期望可重疊時間矩陣（如圖 4）。個案
公司產品開發流程中，各工作之工作時間與
預期縮短時間分析結果如表 3。 
表 3  各工作相關資料 
 
表 3 表示工作 1~24 透過協同方式期望
可以節省之開發時間。由預期縮短的計算結
果可以發現，第 1、4、12 與第 23 項工作的
預期縮短時間數值較高，表示這些工作相較
於其他工作而言具有較高的協同效益，管理
者可以先從這幾項工作進行改善。值得注意
的是工作 14~20 屬於分支型態，為可平行進
行的工作，因此這些工作的協同時間效益應
加總為總時間效益為 20.25 之工作群，協同
效益因而變得較其他工作為高，成為最具有
協同改善效益的工作群。個案公司在工作
1、4、14~20 與 23 均已透過協同設計方式
改善並獲得良好的成效，與本研究之分析結
果一致。 
從個案研究中發現工作 12 的協同也可
以協助個案公司減少產品開發的時間，亦即
個案公司的製造工廠可以提早將主機板完
成的時間告知專案管理人員，有助於縮短專
案人員取得主機板樣本的時間。需提醒管理
者注意的是，預期工作時間中所代表的數值
並不代表實際可以減少的工作時間，而是一
個相對時間效益的向量，但這些向量所表示
的大小關係，可以協助管理者比較工作之間
的效益進行改善。 
若將 B 中的個別元素，除以 R 的個別
元素，則可以獲得每個工作可提前的時間與
其工作時間的比值。B/R 矩陣中比值高的工
作，表示該項工作較容易從經驗、直覺判斷
得知該工作是否可以獲得較佳的協同改善
效果，例如工作 1、23 在 B/R 矩陣中都有高
的比值表現，表示這些工作較容易由經驗、
直覺判斷流程協同化後能獲得較高的時間
效益。然而管理者進行流程改善時容易忽略
B/R 矩陣中比值較低的工作，但是這些受忽
略的工作中有可能是在 B 矩陣中效益較高
的工作，例如工作 12。藉由 B 矩陣與 B/R
矩陣的相互運用，可以找出一般不易察覺但
協同效益較高的工作。 
本方法藉由個案研究，可以用以分析設
計鏈產品開發流程協同化後，可獲得的時間
效益。由個案研究中發現， vsM 矩陣與協同
時間效益分析方法具有互補效果，可以相互
配合使用。例如 vsM 矩陣能快速分析企業哪
些流程區塊可以進行協同及協同的可能方
式，而協同時間效益分析法則能找出個別工
作的協同效益，彌補 vsM 對單一工作分析能
力的不足。企業可以先使用 vsM 矩陣找出可
以協同的工作，再用協同時間效益分析方法
找出前幾項較大效益的工作，配合 vsM 所表
現的資訊特性進行協同，進而建構一套可行
的 PLM 系統協同機制。本研究兩種分析方
法的搭配使用，能協助企業快速地分析協同
設計流程，以提升設計流程的協同化程度。 
 
6. 結論 
協同設計提供了一個方法藉由新產品
開發流程中特定工作的提前進行與資訊的
交換來達成，並改善新產品開發的績效。本
研究所發展之系統化方法，應用二元二維之
設計架構矩陣以及變異度和敏感度分析，發
展用以協助企業判斷適合運用協同設計之
工作，並分析產品開發流程協同後，對於產
品開發週期時間所產生之影響，以決定流程
改善的優先順序。本研究藉由個案研究說明
方法的運用步驟，以瞭解對於企業的效益與
可能產生之影響。對於面對產品開發流程日
益複雜，以及需要運用協同設計來縮短產品
開發週期時間的需求之企業，本研究提供了
一個有效率的解決方法。 
本研究的流程分析方法主要是幫助企
參考文獻 
Bhuiyan, N., Gerwin, D., & Thomson, V. (2004). Simulation of the new product development 
process for performance improvement. Management Science, 50(12), 1690-1703. 
Cho, S. H., & Eppinger, S. D. (2005). A simulation-based process model for managing complex 
design projects. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 52(3), 316-328. 
Chung, W. W. C., Yam, A. Y. K., & Chan, M. F. S. (2004). Networked enterprise: A new business 
model for global sourcing. International Journal of Production Economics, 87(3), 
267-280. 
Cronemyr, P., Ronnback, A. O., & Eppinger, S. D. (2001). A decision support tool for predicting 
the impact of development process improvements. Journal of Engineering Design, 12(3), 
177-199. 
Farrukh, C., Fraser, P., & Gregory, M. (2003). Development of a structured approach to assessing 
practice in product development collaborations. Proceedings of the Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers Part B-Journal of Engineering Manufacture, 217(8), 1131-1144. 
Huang, C. Y., & Wu, Y. W. (2003). Decision model for partnership development in virtual 
enterprises. International Journal of Production Research, 41(9), 1855-1872. 
Jun, H. B., Ahn, H. S., & Suh, H. W. (2005). On identifying and estimating the cycle time of 
product development process. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 52(3), 
336-349. 
Jun, H. B., & Suh, H. W. (2008). A modeling framework for product development process 
considering its characteristics. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 55(1), 
103-119. 
McIvor, R., Humphreys, P., & Cadden, T. (2006). Supplier involvement in product development 
in the electronics industry: A case study. Journal of Engineering and Technology 
Management, 23(4), 374-397. 
Noori, H., & Lee, W. B. (2004). Collaborative design in a networked enterprise: The case of the 
telecommunications industry. International Journal of Production Research, 42(15), 
3041-3054. 
Sanchez, A. M., & Perez, M. P. (2003). Cooperation and the ability to minimize the time and cost 
of new product development within the Spanish automotive supplier industry. Journal of 
Product Innovation Management, 20(1), 57-69. 
Shyamsundar, N., & Gadh, R. (2002). Collaborative virtual prototyping of product assemblies 
over the Internet. Computer-Aided Design, 34(10), 755-768. 
Smith, R. P., & Eppinger, S. D. (1997). A predictive model of sequential iteration in engineering 
design. Management Science, 43(8), 1104-1120. 
Steward, D. V. (1981). The design structure-system - a method for managing the design of 
complex-systems. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 28(3), 71-74. 
Tang, D. B. (2004). An agent-based collaborative design system to facilitate active die-maker 
involvement in stamping part design. Computers in Industry, 54(3), 253-271. 
Yassine, A., & Braha, D. (2003). Complex concurrent engineering and the design structure matrix 
method. Concurrent Engineering-Research and Applications, 11(3), 165-176. 
Yassine, A. A., Sreenivas, R. S., & Zhu, J. (2008). Managing the exchange of information in 
product development. European Journal of Operational Research, 184(1), 311-326. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                               98 年  8 月  11 日 
報告人姓名  
呂執中 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
                      
國立成功大學工業與資訊管理學系教授 
                      
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009/6/8 至 2009/6/10 
 
Xiamen, China 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第六屆服務系統與服務管理國際研討會 
 (英文) The 6th International Conference on Service Systems and Service Management (ICSSSM’09) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 轉化顧客知識為企業價值－以跨國性零售業為例 
 (英文) Transform Customer Knowledge into Company Value—Case of a Global Retailer 
 
一、參加會議經過 
服務系統及服務管理國際會議 (International Conference on Service Systems and Service 
Management, ICSSSM) 隸屬 IEEE Systems, Man and Cybernetics Society, USA，是資訊科技及管理
於服務領域應用的重要會議之一。本屆會議主要由中國廈門大學、中國清華大學、IEEE Systems, 
Man and Cybernetics Society 等相關單位主辦，於 2009/6/8 至 2009/6/10 在廈門大學管理科學院舉
行，共計有超過 160 篇論文於 30 個 session 發表。同一時間有 5 場會議同時進行，議程相當緊湊，
內容更是多元化，兼具學術與實用之參考價值。會議的主題涵蓋服務系統設計、作業及管理、服
務行銷與財務管理、服務相關實務研究與個案探討以及服務科學等。 
此次參加的 Session 主題為 Service experiential studies and Case Studies，在會中發表題目為
「Transform Customer Knowledge into Company Value—Case of a Global Retailer」，說明如何轉化顧
客知識為企業價值以推動顧客知識管理 (Customer Knowledge Management, CKM)，並以跨國性零
售業為例。本研究藉由取得、管理及分享顧客知識建構顧客知識管理模式，使企業能透過知識管
理持續地把顧客知識轉化為企業價值，以提昇自身競爭優勢。並以一跨國性零售業維修流程做為
實際案例評估模式之效益，結果顯示其可有效降低維修所需時間並進一步提高顧客滿意度。 
在簡報和討論過程中，和與會教授/學者間有許多互動，並於會後進一步的討論，藉此和與
會者分享國內在現代化全球運籌的環境中，以顧客知識增進企業價值之經驗及推動顧客知識管理
之方式。參與此一會議對於國際視野的提升以及未來之研究將有所助益，並有助國際間學術與實
務之交流。 
 
 
 
1
  
Abstract—Customer knowledge can enhance company value by 
gathering, managing, and sharing knowledge.  Companies 
continuously transform customer knowledge into company value 
through knowledge management (KM) that can provide more 
value for their customers and stakeholders than their competitors 
can.  Gathering, managing, and sharing customer knowledge can 
be a valuable managerial method to raise the competence of 
enterprise.  The objective of this research is therefore to propose a 
customer knowledge management (CKM) model to transform 
customer knowledge into company value.   
A case study for global retailer is used to examine the feasibility 
and effect of the proposed CKM model.  Results show that the 
CKM model can effectively reduce the required time of 
maintenance to improve the customer satisfaction. 
 
Index Terms—Company Value, Customer Knowledge, 
Customer Knowledge Management, Retailer 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
ustomer knowledge can enhance company value by 
gathering, managing, and sharing knowledge.  CEOs 
increasingly pay attention to knowledge-driven organizational 
change.  Companies continuously transform customer 
knowledge into company value through knowledge 
management (KM) that can provide more value for their 
customers and stakeholders than their competitors can.  The 
main theme of this research is how to transform customer 
knowledge into company value.  Customer knowledge plays a 
critical role in developing new products and service, 
establishing marketing strategy and improving customer’s 
satisfaction.  Gathering, managing, and sharing customer 
knowledge can be a valuable managerial method that can raise 
the competence of enterprise.  The objective of this research is 
therefore to propose a customer knowledge management (CKM) 
solution that is suitable for retailing, and emphasizing on both 
knowledge obtaining and application.  A case study for global 
retailer is used to examine the feasibility and effect of the 
proposed CKM model.  
The importance of transforming customer knowledge into 
company value can be discussed from two aspects: the 
customer knowledge aspect and the KM aspect.  From the 
customer knowledge aspect, enterprises must identify their 
 
Manuscript received February 15, 2009.  
JrJung Lyu is now with the Department of Industrial and Information 
Management, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
(corresponding author to provide phone: +886-6-2080576; fax: 
+886-6-2501734; e-mail: jlyu@mail.ncku.edu.tw).   
target customers in order to achieve the trend of one-on-one 
marketing or customization. The development relies heavily on 
the knowledge discovery about customers, in order to make the 
knowledge as the basis of decision making.  As to the KM 
aspect, the knowledge which has been discovered is used to 
satisfy the need of customers, so the best knowledge resource is 
customers themselves. Furthermore, because of the variety of 
the product, retailers can understand the preference of 
customers and the trends of product through cross analysis of 
customer’s voice.  With the purpose of improving the 
organization’s efficiency and effectiveness through better 
decisions, organizations consciously develop CKM solution to 
gather, manage, and share customer knowledge, then transform 
into company value.   
Some researches defined customer knowledge as knowledge 
from customers, and some defined it as knowledge about 
customers.  Knowledge from customers is the knowledge 
residing in customers.  It can be found in the discussion on the 
web or in the interaction between salesperson and customers, 
such as the thoughts after using the product.  Knowledge about 
customers is knowledge found indirectly from the data like 
customer profile or their buying records.  It can be discovered 
only by analysis or mining techniques.  So, we can define that 
knowledge from customers belongs to “explicit” knowledge 
and knowledge about customers belongs to “tacit” knowledge.  
However, no matter customer knowledge is explicit or tacit; the 
process applying customer knowledge combines the concept of 
KM and customer relationship management (CRM).  To 
collect, create and organize customer knowledge is the part of 
KM concept, and to use knowledge as the key element on 
increasing customer satisfaction is the part of CRM. 
From the discussion, CKM can be defined as the use of the 
integrated customer and market information which exchange 
directly with customers in order to raise the loyalty of 
customers.  Companies acquire and analyze the customer’s 
information such as profile, preference, inquiry of certain 
products and even the time spending on the service line.  To 
utilize customer knowledge depends on personnel training and 
the use of information technology.  Although customer service 
provides a supporting function in an organization, it is a critical 
element for the company to differentiate itself.  Some 
companies use KM tools to obtain customer knowledge such as 
the problems customers might encounter and solutions or 
advise selected [1].  Baloh et al. [2] proposed a six-step KM 
solution design method to successfully treat business 
process-oriented organizational change projects. 
Transform Customer Knowledge into Company 
Value—Case of a Global Retailer 
JrJung Lyu, ShihChi Yang, and ChiaWen Chen  
C
 
 
3
customer knowledge.   
Company S was established in 1988.  As shown in Fig. 2, 
company S has established a strong worldwide retail network in 
29 countries and 181 cities.  They sell more than 300 brands 
including Intel, Microsoft, IBM, HP, Seagate, Nokia, Motorola, 
Sony Ericsson, etc.   
 
 
Fig. 2.  Worldwide retail network for company S. 
 
The business model of company S bases on key mechanism 
of operations of channels such as customer service center, 
delivery, fast maintenance, and CTO manufacturing.  As shown 
in Fig. 3, the logistics service group of company S is structured 
by above mechanisms.  It can efficiently process the mass 
material flows, cash flows, and maintenance flows.   
 
Logistics Service Group
IC Component
Business Group
Distribution
Business Group
J-V
Sales & Marketing
Company
J-V
Sales & Marketing
Company
C
ustom
er
S
upplier
Warehousing
CTO
Manufacture
Fast
Maintenance
Delivery
Customer Service Center
MIS
Purchase Flow
Inquiry & Order Flow
Fulfillment Flow
Maintenance Flow
Information Flow
 
Fig. 3.  Logistics service group of company S. 
 
There are many growing retailers in Taiwan.  It seems that 
many of them have grown very fast and the IT plays a critical 
role to duplicate their business models.  At the very beginning, 
companies implement point of sale (POS) and management 
information system (MIS) to collect basic information.  
Customer knowledge is becoming a widely used applications to 
improve the customers’ satisfaction when the business 
growing.   
The CEO of the case company realized that there is no 
in-depth analysis on customer knowledge.  While the business 
grows very fast, it’s urgent to discover and manage the 
customer knowledge to sustain its competitive advantage.  As a 
result, case company decided to implement a CKM model.   
 
III. CASE APPROACH 
In order to develop the best interest of an organization, basic 
structure of CKM solution is shown in Fig. 4.  This structure is 
a modified combination of process-oriented KM solution and 
CKM model proposed by Baloh et al. [2] and García-Murillo 
and Annabi [4], respectively.  Steps 1 to 3 are used to identify 
the main area to improve and goal through customer knowledge 
revealing.  To reveal customer knowledge can be implemented 
by interaction with customers or with distributor.  Based on the 
customer requirement, steps 4 and 5 use knowledge sorting to 
provide the necessary information for the transform: As-Is 
model into To-Be model and for the customer to make an 
educated decision.  In step 6, the results of To-Be model are 
evaluated to test the knowledge leveling.  In this phase, the 
customer has obtained required information and To-Be model 
can satisfy customer preferences and needs.  In the last step, 
customer knowledge can be shared with members in supply 
chain. 
The first step to change has focused on an important business 
area which offers lucrative opportunities for customer 
satisfaction, thus worth improving: the maintenance process.  
As 3C industries become mature, the difference of function and 
price among products is almost insignificant.  Customers 
consider maintenance service to decide which product is 
bought.  Moreover, the after-sale service (especially 
maintenance) becomes more complicated due to the diversified 
product design.  The effective management of maintenance 
operations is necessary.  Therefore, it is important to improve 
maintenance service in supply chain to reduce cost and to 
increase customer satisfaction.  This research first focuses on 
the maintenance flow of the company S to develop CKM 
solution. 
In the second step, company S looked for customer 
knowledge-associated opportunities and risks, such as the 
organization fails to apply existing knowledge and ends up in 
repeating failures.  As customers’ dependence on 3C products 
rises, the maintenance time is expected to shorten.  The 
knowledge of logistic service can be used as reference to build 
maintenance network. 
Therefore company S has set an ambitious goal of increasing 
the efficiency and effectiveness of maintenance in step three.  
The performance measure is to shorten half total maintenance 
time.   
After selecting the important business process and setting the 
goal, the problem situation has to be analyzed.  In step 4, 
existing customer-related KM activities need to be analyzed to 
assess the current state.  As shown in Fig. 5, the maintenance 
flows of company S is based on economic scale considering 
quality, speed, and cost.  When a product needs to be repaired 
from customer (end user), the distributor will deliver it to 
retailer (company S), taking about 1 to 2 days.  When the 
product is repaired, retailer informs the distributor to take it 
back and again 1 to 2 days is required.  The total time for the 
product’s maintenance is at least 4 days. 
 
 
5
 
Fig. 8.  KM for maintenance process. 
 
 
Fig. 9.  Maintenance KM inquiry for inside of company S. 
 
 
Fig. 10.  Maintenance KM inquiry for outside of company S. 
 
Through the proposed CKM solution, the maintenance time 
can be improved from 4 days to 2 days.  As shown in Fig. 11, 
company S can share customer knowledge to brand to help 
them to understand the sale amount and products quality.  This 
can be considered when the new product is designed.  Company 
S shares customer knowledge to distributor to help them sell the 
products.  The maintenance network based on CKM can 
improve the service level of supply chain to increase customer 
satisfaction. 
 
B
rand
D
istributor
  
Fig. 11.  The benefits for each member in supply chain to implement CKM. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
This research proposes a CKM solution which contains 
customer knowledge discovery and customer knowledge 
application in order to improve customer satisfaction.  From the 
proposed model and the case study, several suggestions are 
provided for retailers when implementing CKM: 
1. MIS and IT environment is the basis to implement CKM, it 
has strong effect on the CKM activities. 
2. Retailers have plenty of maintenance data, but these data was 
only used as the references of stock control, and did not 
show its maximal value.  Maintenance data can be the good 
basis to establish maintenance strategy. 
3. The proposed CKM solution can efficiently conduct that 
transforming customer knowledge into company value. 
4. Company S can share customer knowledge to brand to help 
them to understand the sale amount and products quality.  
This can be considered when the new product designed.  
Company S shares customer knowledge to distributor to 
help them sell the products.  The maintenance network based 
on CKM can improve the service level of supply chain to 
increase customer satisfaction. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] T. H. Davenport and P. Klahr, “Managing customer support knowledge,” 
California Management Review, vol. 40, no. 3, pp. 195-208, 1998. 
[2] P. Baloh, K. Uthicke, and G. Moon, “A business process-oriented method 
of KM solution design: A case study of Samsung Electronics,” 
International Journal of Information Management, vol. 28, no. 5, pp. 
433-437, 2008. 
[3] Z. Hongqi and L. Ruoyu, “A model for the relationship between customer 
knowledge management and service innovation capability,” in Proc. 
2008 International Conference on Service Systems and Service 
Management, 2008, pp. 1-5. 
[4] M. García-Murillo and H. Annabi, “Customer knowledge management,” 
Journal of the Operational Research Society, vol. 53, no. 8, pp. 875-884, 
2002. 
[5] D. A. Griffith and R. F. Krampf, “Emerging trends in US retailing,” Long 
Range Planning, vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 847-852, 1997. 
[6] M. Gibbert, M. Leibold, and G. Probst, “Five styles of customer 
knowledge management, and how smart companies use them to create 
value,” European Management Journal, vol. 20, no. 5, pp. 459-469, 
2002. 
[7] Y. Yang and R. Chen, “Customer participation: co-creating knowledge 
with customers,” in Proc. 4th International Conference on Wireless 
Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing, 2008, pp. 1-6. 
Maintenance 
operations 
Maintenance quality 
management 
Company S 
Maintenance 
knowledge 
database 
Operation quality control
SOP fine -tune
Technical skill
Firmware version update
Spare parts quality issue
Brand
Distributor
CustomeInside: 
Intranet
Email 
Training 
Outside: 
Email
Company web site
Maintenance meeting /
…
表 Y04                                          1 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
98 年 12 月 9 日 
報告人
姓名 
呂執中 服務機構
及職稱
國立成功大學 
工業與資訊管理學系教授 
時間 
會議 
地點 
2009/09/09~2009/09/11 
菲律賓長灘島 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2009 創新與管理國際研討會 
 (英文) The 2009 International Conference on Innovation and Management (IAM 2009) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 應用無線感測網路於能源管理 
 (英文) WSN: The Opportunity of Energy Management 
一、目的 
隨著電子化與通訊技術的快速發展，使得企業全球化的經營管理，面臨更劇烈的競
爭壓力。隨之而來的是各種新技術、新思維的興起，協助企業組織進行創新而獲得管理
績效的突破，已儼然成為產業與學術重視的與積極探討之潮流。「2009 創新與管理國
際研討會」旨在透過產學合作的方式、以多元廣泛的角度深入探討創新與管理的重要議
題，並提供成為海內外之學者、業者及研究人員進行資訊交流與發表的平台，以強化創
新與管理重要理論基礎、認知與實證研究的發展。 
本屆 (2009 年) 創新與管理國際研討會主辦單位為產業電子化運籌管理學會。大會
特別向海內外學者、專家和企業家徵求學術及實務論文，並於 2009 年 9 月 9-11 日假菲
律賓長灘島舉行，藉由與會者就資通訊科技及創新相關理論與實務研究成果之交流，使
研討會圓滿落幕。 
本次研討會 10 日上午之 Keynote Speech，由點亮科技股份有限公司施志明總經理
針對環境及綠色能源相關議題進行演講。本次研討會為期三天，各場次論文發表針對以
下十二個主題進行： 
- Key technologies in the 21st century (nano-, bio-, ICT technology) 
- Technological innovation, product or industrial innovation 
- Technology or innovation of multinational corporations, regional or organizational 
innovation 
- Managing collaboration 
- Financing and commercializing innovation 
- Innovation in services, logistics and supply chain management 
- Intellectual property and knowledge management 
- Human resource management issues in innovation 
- Healthcare 
- Environment and energy 
- Project management 
- E-business or supply chain 
表 Y04                                          3 
四、建議事項 
透過此次會議之交流，獲得許多寶貴之創新與管理及資通訊技術理論與實務應用相
關資料，除了分享個人研究心得及成果，並密切與各校教授及產業界先進討論目前重要
研究課題。希望未來國科會能持續補助並鼓勵教師參加類似之國際會議，進一步加強國
內外理論與實務之交流。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
x 詳細會議手冊 
x 論文光碟 
 
phenomena, such as: temperature, humidity, then 
transform these collected information into 
electronics signals, and send to Gateway 
simultaneously, Gateway will make use of these 
transformed electronic signals to reach a higher 
level consensus and through wireless 
transmission means to send information to 
end-users. Wireless sensor networks basic 
architecture in Figure 1. 
 
 
Figure 1: WSN basic framework 
 
The followings are some various advantages 
of the WSN: 
1. Non-aggressive To resolve deficiencies in its 
own cable network: For example, those 
hazardous areas which are not suitable for 
wiring or the time for wiring is too long. 
2. The construction of wiring is non-aggressive: 
Since the information is transmitted by 
wireless, it doesn’t need to consider whether 
the environment will be damage or not. 
3. It is a cross-platform and provides 
interoperability for the user: It is able to 
access a variety of communications industry 
or the Internet, transmission or 
communication are not limited to a single 
network.  
4. To reduce costs, such as line costs, 
maintenance costs. Self-healing network with 
the characteristics of a single node to other 
nodes will not damage the loss of connection. 
Because a large number of nodes to provide 
other information on the path of 
transmission. 
 
As the WSN has many benefits, full of the 
future, but it is a cross-platform, and also 
resulted in WSN is not necessarily the norm. 
Many research institutions and companies have 
launched their own technology and standards. 
The following table applies for the part of the 
wireless sensor networks technology and 
standards: 
 
 
 
Table 1: Some of WSN technologies and 
standards (ITIS, 2008) 
Technology
Standard/ 
Organization
Frequency 
Transfer 
Rate 
MiWi 
IEEE 
802.15.4 
868/915 MHz 
2.4GHz 
250kbps
RFID EPCglobal 
860~960 MHz 
2.4GHz 
>384kbps
SMAC Proprietary 2.4GHz 250kbps
Smart Dust Proprietary 2.4GHz 250kbps
ZigBee 
IEEE 
802.15.4 
ZigBee 
Alliance 
868/915 MHz 
2.4GHz 
250kbps
Z-Wave 
Z-Wave 
Alliance 
908.42/868.42
MHz 
9.6kbps 
 
3. WHAT CAN WSN DO 
 
There are many applications of wireless 
sensor networks, and all of these can be 
classified into two categories: monitoring and 
tracking (Yick, Mukherjee, & Ghosal, 2008).  
For monitoring, the application includes 
industrial control and diagnostic monitoring, 
environmental monitoring, habitat monitoring, 
power monitoring, and health monitoring etc.  
And the tracking application, such as tracking 
humans, animals, and objects are also put in 
generally use.  The categories are shown as 
Figure 2. 
 
 
Figure 2: Overview of sensor network 
applications (Yick, et al., 2008) 
 
The followings are some of WSN’s 
applications: 
