  2
definition package and predict factors that 
may impact project risk.  By identifying 
potential risk factors early on in a project, the 
project team may quickly respond to the risks 
and thus reduce the possible negative impact 
resulting from the risks.  To tailor the 
specific needs of different industry sectors, 
two versions of PDRI were developed – 
PDRI for Industrial Projects and PDRI for 
Building Projects.  Using PDRI as a survey 
instrument, the project leader has collected 
information form a total of 62 industrial 
projects representing a total budget cost of 
$3.8 billion dollars and 78 building projects 
representing $1.1 billion dollars in total 
budget cost.  With the surveyed data, 
analysis has shown a positive relationship 
between the level of project scope definition 
and project performance for the US 
construction industry.  That is, projects with 
better scope definition in the early stage are 
more likely to have a better project 
performance.  Up to now, the construction 
industry in Taiwan lacks a standard tool to 
evaluate their scope definition for each project.  
Therefore, this research will develop a Project 
Definition Rating Index specific for the 
construction industry (both building and 
industrial sector) in Taiwan.  With this useful 
tool, scope definitions for construction 
projects in Taiwan can be evaluated in the 
early stage and potential and poorly-defined 
scopes can be identified.  Efforts can be 
focused on these poorly-defined scope 
elements to improve the possibility of future 
project success. 
 
Keyword: Project Definition, Preproject 
Planning, Project Success 
 
二、緣由與目的 
It has been recognized by the industry 
practitioners the importance of preproject 
planning in the capital facility delivery 
process and its potential impact on project 
success. Nevertheless, the preproject planning 
process varies significantly throughout 
industry from one organization to another. 
Because of this inconsistency, the 
Construction Industry Institute (CII) and 
others chartered several studies since the 
1990’s to look at this area. The major 
achievement of this series of studies is the 
development and application of the Project 
Definition Rating Index (PDRI). The PDRI 
provides a standard tool that allows a project 
team to measure the completeness of a 
project’s scope definition. Since its 
development, PDRI has been included in the 
CII Benchmarking and Metrics Survey and 
been widely used by the industry. 
However, the construction industry in 
Taiwan does not have a similar tool to assist 
with their preproject planning process.  This 
research uses similar methodology to develop 
user-friendly scope definition tools specific 
for the construction industry in Taiwan (for 
both industrial and building projects) to 
provide a common basis and measuring tool 
for project scope development. With this 
useful tool, the construction industry in 
Taiwan will be able to standardize their scope 
development process and monitor the scope 
completeness throughout the project life cycle. 
Previous researches have shown that 
incomplete scope development has negative 
  4
project definition package.  This document 
consists of a detailed formulation of 
continuous and systematic strategies to be 
used during the execution phase of the project 
to accomplish the project objectives.  It also 
includes sufficient supplemental information 
to permit effective and efficient detailed 
engineering to proceed (Gibson et al. 1993). 
Inadequate or poor scope definition, 
which negatively correlates to the project 
performance, is recognized as one of the most 
serious problems on a construction project 
(Smith and Tucker 1983).  As stated in the 
Business Roundtable’s Construction Industry 
Cost Effectiveness (CICE) Project Report A-6 
(Business Roundtable 1982), two of the most 
frequent contributing factors to cost overrun 
are: poor scope definition at the estimate 
(budget) stage and loss of control of project 
scope.  Therefore, the result of a poor scope 
definition is that final project costs can be 
expected to be higher because of the 
inevitable changes which interrupt project 
rhythm, cause rework, increase project time, 
and lower the productivity as well as the 
morale of the work force (O’Connor and 
Vikroy 1986).  As a result, success during the 
detailed design, construction, and start-up 
phases of a project highly depends on the level 
of effort expended during the scope definition 
phase as well as the integrity of project 
definition package (Gibson and Dumont 
1996). 
 
3.3 Project Definition Rating Index (PDRI) 
    Due to the needs for development of a 
tool to determine the adequacy of scope 
definition and to assess preproject planning 
efforts, CII constituted a research team in 
1994 to produce effective and easy-to-use 
preproject planning tools that extended 
previous research efforts so that owner and 
contractor companies would be able to better 
achieve business, operational, and project 
objectives (CII 1996).  This team was made 
up of 15 industry practitioners (eight owner 
companies and seven contractors) and the 
academic research team.  Their goal was to 
develop effective and easy-to-use preproject 
planning management tools. In order to reach 
this goal, two objectives were set up.  First, 
preproject planning efforts were to be 
quantified.  Second, the impact of alignment 
was to be analyzed. 
    The development of the Project 
Definition Rating Index (PDRI) was a logical 
extension of the preproject planning research 
efforts outlined in the previous section.  
Developed by the Front-End Research Team 
in CII, the PDRI serves as a scope definition 
tool for industrial projects.  The PDRI is a 
weighted matrix with 70 scope definition 
elements (issues that need to be addressed in 
pre-project planning) grouped into 15 
categories and further grouped into three main 
sections.  A complete list of the PDRI＇s 
element breakdown is shown in Figure 3.  
Each of the elements has a corresponding 
detailed description.  Figure 4 gives an 
example of element description for element 
A1 of the industrial PDRI.  A more detailed 
review of the scope definition element 
descriptions can be found in Project Definition 
Rating Index (PDRI), CII Research Report 
113-11 (Gibson and Dumont 1996). 
    The PDRI allows a project team to 
  6
 
四、結果與討論 
    It has been recognized by the industry 
practitioners the importance of preproject 
planning in the capital facility delivery 
process and its potential impact on project 
success.  Researches in the U.S. have also 
shown that project with better pre-project 
planning outperform projects with poor 
preproject planning.  An easy to use scope 
definition tool, Project Definition Rating 
Index (PDRI) has been created to assist the 
preproject planning process.  Since its 
introduction, the PDRI has been used widely 
among CII member companies.  For the 
construction industry in Taiwan, there is no 
such tool to assist the project team with their 
preproject planning process.  Therefore, it 
would be very beneficial to have similar scope 
definition tool for the industry in Taiwan.  By 
adopting the similar methodology, this 
research project has successfully developed a 
scope definition specific for the construction 
industry in Taiwan (one for building sector 
and the other for the industrial sector).  
Figure 1 below shows the first category of the 
Building PDRI for Taiwan construction 
industry. 
第一部分  -  工程專案決定的基礎 
種類 定義完整度  
    項目 0 1 2 3 4 5 分數
A.  經營策略  (總分 214) 
     A1.  建物使用 0 1 12 23 33 44  
     A2.  公司經營合理性 0 1 8 14 21 27  
     A3.  經營計畫 0 2 8 14 20 26  
     A4.  經濟分析 0 2 6 11 16 21  
     A5.  設施需求 0 2 9 16 23 31  
     A6.  未來的擴展/ 修改考慮因素 0 1 7 12 17 22  
     A7.  現址選擇考慮因素 0 1 8 15 21 28  
     A8.  專案目標陳述 0 1 4 8 11 15  
類別 A 總分  
  
Fig. 1 PDRI for Buildings – Category A 
  After the development of the PDRI for 
Taiwan construction industry, the next step 
would be to introduce it to the industry 
practitioners and help them to do better 
preproject planning with the assistance of this 
tool. 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
    This research project has successfully 
developed a scope definition tool specifically 
for the construction industry in Taiwan within 
the time frame.  During the development 
process, this tool has been introduced to some 
construction companies in Taiwan.  
Comments and positive feedbacks are 
obtained and will be incorporated in the future 
research. 
 
參考文獻 
1. Abdul-Raheem, N. (1994). “The 
Relationship between Perceived 
Leadership Behavior of Construction 
Superintendents, Situational Factors, and 
Job Satisfaction of their Foreman”. Ph.D. 
thesis, University of Texas at Austin, 
Austin, TX 
2. Ashley, D., Jaselskis, E., and Lurie, C. B. 
(1987). “The Determinants of 
Construction Project Success”. Project 
Management Journal, Vol. 18, No. 2, pp. 
69-79 
3. Babbie, E. R. (1992).  The Practice of 
Social Research – Sixth Edition, Belmont, 
California: Wadsworth Pub. Co. 
4. Broaddus, J. A. (1995). Managing Inputs 
to Design for Project Success: Participant 
Handbook – CII Education Module EM-9, 
  8
20. Gibson, G. E., Liao, S., Broaddus, J., and 
Bruns, T., (1997).  The university of texas 
system capital project performance, 
1990 – 1995.  OFPC Paper 97-1. Office 
of Facilities Planning and Construction, 
The University of Texas System, Austin, 
TX 
21. Griffith, A. F., Gibson, G. E., Hamilton, 
M. R., Tortora, A. L., and Wilson, C. T. 
(1999).  “Project Success Index for 
Capital Facility Construction Projects”, 
ASCE J. Performance of Constructed 
Facilities, Vol. 13, No. 1, pp. 39-45 
22. Hackney, J. W. (1992). Control & 
Management of Capital Projects – Second 
Edition, New York, New York: 
McGraw-Hill, Inc. 
23. Hamilton, M. R. (1994). “The 
Relationship between Pre-Project Planning 
Effort and Success for Capital 
Construction Projects”. Ph. D. Thesis, 
University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 
24. Kangari, R. (1995). “Risk Management 
Protection and Trends of U.S. 
Construction”. Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, Vol. 121, 
No. 4, pp. 422-429 
25. Lifson, M. W., and Shaifer, E. F., Jr. 
(1982).  Decision and Risk Analysis for 
Construction Management.  New York, 
New York: John Wiley and Sons, Inc. 
26. Mak, S., and Picken, D. (2000). “Using 
Risk Analysis to Determine Construction 
Project Contingencies.” Journal of 
Construction Engineering and 
Management, ASCE, Vol. 126, No. 2, pp. 
130-136 
27. Merrow, E. W., Philips, K. E., & Myers, 
C. W. (1981). “Understanding Cost 
Growth and Performance Shortfalls in 
Pioneer Process Plants”, R-2569-DOE, 
Santa Monica, California: RAND 
Corporation 
28. Merrow, E. W. (1988). “Understanding 
the Outcomes of Megaprojects: A 
Quantitative Analysis of Very Large 
Civilian Projects”, R-3560-PSSP, Santa 
Monica, California: RAND Corporation 
29. Merrow, E. W., and Yarossi, M. E. 
(1994). “Managing Capital Projects: 
Where Have We been – Where are We 
Going?” Chemical Engineering, October: 
108-111 
30. Minato, T., and Ashley, D. B. (1998). 
“Data-Driven Analysis of ‘Corporate 
Risk’ Using Historical Cost-Control 
Data”. Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, Vol. 124, 
No. 1, pp. 42-47 
31. Morris, P.W., and Hough, G.H. (1987). 
Anatomy of Major Projects, New York, 
New York: John Wiley & Son’s, Inc. 
32. O’Connor, J. T., and Vickroy, C. G. 
(1986). “Control of Construction Project 
Scope – Source Document 6”, Austin, 
Texas: Construction Industry Institute, 
The University of Texas at Austin 
33. Peña, W., Parshall, S., and Kelly, K. 
(1987). Problem Seeking – An 
Architectural Programming Primer, 
Washington, D.C.: AIA Press 
