1 Introduction
The lattice Boltzmann method (LBM) is easy to implement, which makes it
rather appealing to compute flows. However, the capability of the lattice Boltz-
mann method to model complex geometry may not be trivial due to the Carte-
sian grid adopted and the complex boundary implementation along the curved
boundary.
Various methodologies have been put forward to mimic the complex geom-
etry. For example, Filippova and Hanel[1] proposed a method using a simple
linear interpolation between a fictitious equilibrium distribution function and
a well-chosen near-boundary distribution function. The weighting factor of the
interpolation is determined by the distance between the boundary and the near-
boundary lattice. Mei et al.[2] further improved its numerical stability. Lalle-
mand and Luo[3] combined the bounce-back scheme and interpolation scheme
to treat a moving curved boundary by the lattice Boltzmann method. The
bounce-back scheme simulates a stationary boundary, and an additional term
is added to implement a moving boundary. This treatment is an extension of
that proposed by Bouzidi et al.[4].
Alternatively, the immersed boundary method (IBM) is another convenient
approach to treat fluid flows involving complex boundary, though it was for-
mulated mostly within the Navier-Stkes equation framework. The complex ge-
ometry within the Cartesian grid can be simulated by generating external force
field to mimic the immersed boundary. IBM can be categorized as feedback
forcing[5, 6, 7] and direct forcing[8, 9] approaches. However, the major draw-
back of the existing feedback forcing is the restriction of small CFL number. For
direct forcing approaches, the determinations of the forcing locations and their
magnitudes may not be straightforward. Aiming at improving the above two
approaches, Su et al.[10] proposed a new immersed boundary (IB) technique for
the simulation of flows interacting with solid boundary.
Although force concept has been applied within the immersed boundary
method, the method is mostly implemented in the Navier-Stokes equation. In
this paper, the lattice Boltzmann method is combined with the immersed bound-
ary technique of Su et al.[10] to simulate flows with complex boundary. The
boundary is represented by a series of Lagrangian markers, and appropriate
force is exerted at the Lagrangian markers to satisfy the prescribed velocity.
Then force at the Lagrangian markers is distributed to the Eulerian grid by
a well-chosen discretized delta function. With the force known, the flow field
can be obtained by the lattice Boltzmann method. Numerical examples are
examined to investigate the capability of this approach.
2
2.2 Forcing Step for the complex Boundary
The basis of the present immersed boundary method is based on the work of
Su et al.[10], though it was derived from the Navier-Stokes equation framework.
Here, the boundary is represented by a series of Lagrangian markers ~Xm, and
a force ~F ( ~Xm) is created on each Lagrangian marker to ensure the satisfac-
tion of the boundary condition. The force at the Lagrangian marker ~F ( ~Xm) is
distributed to the neighboring lattice ~x by a well-chosen discretized delta func-
tion, and the boundary velocity is obtained by interpolation of velocity from
its neighboring lattice. Here, the discretized delta function and the function for
the interpolation of velocity are both set as the area-weighted average function
δh:
δh(~x− ~Xm) = dh(x−Xm)dh(y − Ym)dh(z − Zm), (7)
where dh is the hat function and is defined by
dh(r) =
{
(1− |r|/h), for |r| < h
0, otherwise. (8)
where h is chosen as the lattice spacing ∆x . The effective range of δh is a
2∆x square and cube for 2D and 3D flows, respectively, and the corresponding
maximum numbers of lattice influenced by a Lagrangian marker are four and
eight. This function is in fact bi-linear or tri-linear interpolation scheme.
Thus, the velocity at a Lagrangian marker is the summation of weighted
velocity over neighboring lattice of the Lagrangian marker ~Xm, i.e.,
~u( ~Xm) =
∑
~x
~u(~x)δ(~x− ~Xm) (9)
where
∑
~x means the summation over neighboring lattice of the Lagrangian
marker ~Xm. Therefore, force on the Lagrangian marker can be obtained by
performing similar weighted operation to Eq. 6, then
ρ( ~Xm)~u( ~Xm) = ρ′′( ~Xm)~u′′( ~Xm)+
∆t
2
∑
~x
[
∑
L
~F ( ~XL)δ(~x− ~XL)︸ ︷︷ ︸
~F (~x)
]δ(~x− ~Xm) (10)
Since ~F does not modify density, ρ = ρ′′. Along the boundary, velocity ~u( ~Xm) is
known, the above equations is used to compute force on the Lagrangian marker
~F ( ~X). Alternatively, ignoring the implicit influences of the forces, a simpler
version of force equation can be adopted, i.e.,
ρ( ~Xm)~u( ~Xm) = ρ′′( ~Xm)~u′′( ~Xm) +
∆t
2
~F ( ~Xm) (11)
Then lattice force ~F (~x) is the summation of weighted forces over the series
of the Lagrangian markers.
~F (~x) =
∑
m
~F ( ~Xm)δ(~x− ~Xm) (12)
4
results converge to the result obtained by Ghia et al. quite well.
3.2 Flows over an asymmetrically placed cylinder
Schafer and Turek[14] reported a set of 2D and 3D benchmark results for laminar
flows over a circular cylinder of radius r that is asymmetrically placed inside a
channel. The distances from the center of the cylinder to the upper wall and
lower wall are 4.2r and 4.0r, respectively. The geometric layout is shown in
Fig. 3, where the flow is 3D in nature. However, 2D results are flows that do
not vary in the transverse direction, i.e. z direction. In the following sections,
Figure 3: Configuration of flow over a cylinder
2D and 3D IBM-LBM results are presented. The channel inlet has a parabolic
velocity profile of maximum speed Umax, and the Mach number of Umax is
Mc = Umax/Cs = 0.1. No-slip boundary condition are applied along the walls,
and at the exit, 1st order extrapolation is applied for the unknown distribution
functions.
Here, the Reynolds number is based on the average inlet velocity (Uave =
2Umax/3. The drag and lift coefficients over the circular cylinder are defined as,
CD =
FD
ρinU2aver
, CL =
FL
ρinU2aver
(13)
where the drag force FD and the lift force FL are obtained from the following
equations[7, 10], i.e.
FD = −
∑
m
Fx,m∆x2, FL = −
∑
m
Fy,m∆x2 (14)
3.2.1 2D flows over an asymmetrically placed cylinder in a channel
In the present study, r = 30∆x is used. The grid resolutions in the x and y
directions are 1321 and 247, respectively. The Eulerian grid spacing is ∆x =
6
STEP
D
ra
g
a
n
d
Li
ft
co
e
ffi
ci
e
n
t
260000 270000 280000
-1
0
1
2
3
Drag coef.
Lift coef.
Figure 5: The time evolution of drag
and lift coefficients of Re = 100.
STEP
dr
a
g
co
e
ffi
ci
e
n
t
260000 265000 270000 275000 280000
3.22
3.23
3.24
3.25
3.26
3.27
3.28
3.29
3.3
3.31
3.32
3.33
3.34
Figure 6: The time evolution of drag
coefficients of Re = 100.
the number of Lagrangian markers is NL = 6480. Here the Reynolds number
is 20 and hence the flow is steady.
Table 2 shows the values of CD and CL for the 3D flow over a cylinder
asymmetrically placed in a square duct at Re=20. The predicted lift and drag
coefficients are 0.011 and 6.57, which are compatible with the benchmark results
by different researchers[14].
Table 2: Values of CD, CL for the 3D flow over a cylinder asymmetrically placed
in a square duct.
Re=20 Present Schafer & Turek [14] Present Schafer & Turek [14]
CD 6.57 6.05 - 6.25 CL 0.011 0.008 - 0.01
4 Conclusion
The lattice Boltzmann method is combined with the immersed boundary tech-
nique of Su et al.[10] to simulate flows with complex boundary. The boundary
is represented by a series of Lagrangian markers, and appropriate force is ex-
erted at the Lagrangian markers to satisfy the prescribed velocity. Then force
at the Lagrangian markers is distributed to the Eulerian grid by a well-chosen
discretized delta function. Lattice Boltzmann method with the forcing term is
used to obtain the velocity field. The proposed method is examined by com-
puting lid driven cavity flow and flows over asymmetrically placed cylinder. All
the numerical results agree well with the benchmark solutions.
8
Prediction of secondary flow structure in turbulent Couette-Poiseuille duct flows 1
Parallel CFD, May 15 to 18, 2006, Busan, Korea
Prediction of secondary flow structure in turbulent Couette-Poiseuille duct flows
Chao-An Lin
Department of Power Mechanical Engineering
National Tsing Hua University
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan
Parallel CFD 2006 is the 18th in the series of international meetings focusing on parallel
computation and fluid dynamics research. It was held May 15-18, 2006 at Paradise Hotel,
Busan, Korea Over the span of these eighteen years parallel computers have fulfilled their
promise of becoming the dominant form of large-scale computing and indeed, with the
advent of cluster computing, infiltrated small laboratories and even desktops.
Topics covered in the conference are: Terascale computing, Mechanical and Aerospace
Engineering, Industrial and Environmental Engineering, Medical and Biological Appli-
cations, Atmospheric and Ocean Modeling, Combustion, Turbulence, Acoustics, Lattice
Boltzmann Methods, Parallel Algorithms, Multi-scale and Multi-physics, Adaptive Mesh
Refinement.
I have been serving in the organizing committee since 1995.
- Scientific Organization Committee
Ramesh K. Agarwal, Washington University, USA; Gunther Brenner, Institute of Tech-
nical Mechanics,Germany; Boris Chetverushkin, Russian Academy of Science, Russia;
Anil Deane, University of Maryland, USA; Akin Ecer, IUPUI, USA; David R. Emerson,
Daresbury Laboratory, UK; Pat Fox, IUPUI, USA; Marc Garbey, University of Hous-
ton, USA; Alfred Geiger, DLR/Solutions, Germany; Trond Kvamsdal, SINTEF, Norway;
David E. Keyes, Columbia University(in NYC), USA; Chao-An Lin, National Tsing Hua
University, Taiwan; Isaac Lopez, Army Research Laboratory NASA Glen Campus, USA;
Kenichi Matsuno, Kyoto Institute of Technology, Japan; James McDonough, University of
Kentucky, USA; Jacques Periaux, Dassault Aviation, France; Nobuyuki Satofuka, Kyoto
Institute of Technology, Japan; Pasquale Schiano, Centro Italiano Ricerche Aerospziali
CIRA, Italy; Suga Sugavanam, IBM, USA; Damien Tromeur Dervout, Universityof Claude
Bernard Lyon I, France; Peter Wilders, Delf University of Technology, The Netherlands
There are approximately 140 attendants in the conference, within which there are 6
from Taiwan. In the conference, I presented a paper entitled: Prediction of secondary
flow structure in turbulent Couette-Poiseuille duct flows.
During the meeting, I attended the organizing committee meeting and the chairman of
the 2007 Turkey meeting reported the progress of the preparation. The meeting in 2008
will be taken place at France. The 2009 meeting place is still open.
Finally, the financial support from NSC is gratefully acknowledged.
Prediction of secondary flow structure in turbulent Couette-Poiseuille duct flows 3
secondary flows were revealed near the ridges. Rotation around an axis perpendicular to
the streamwise flow direction was also found to greatly modify the secondary flow structure
in a LES calculation conducted by Pallares and Davidson [7]. The above investigations
have implied that, with careful manipulation, the secondary flow is very much promising
on enhancement of particle transport or single phase heat transfer in different industrial
devices. They also demonstrated that the turbulence generated secondary flow in non-
circular ducts could be modified by bounding wall geometry, heating and system rotation.
However, little is known about the effect of the moving wall on the secondary flow
structure. Lo and Lin [8] investigated the Couette-Poiseuille flow with emphasis on the
mechanism of the secondary flow vorticity transport within the square duct. However, the
relationship between the secondary flow structure and the moving wall is not addressed.
In the present study, focus is directed to the influences of the moving wall on the secondary
flow pattern and hence turbulence structure.
2. Governing Equations and Modeling
The governing equations are grid-filtered, incompressible continuity and Navier-Stokes
equations. In the present study, the Smagorinsky model[9] has been used for the sub-grid
stress(SGS).
τ sij = −(Cs∆)2
1√
2
√
(SklSkl)Sij +
2
3
ρksgsδij (1)
where Cs = 0.1, Sij =
∂ui
∂xj
+ ∂uj
∂xi
, and ∆ = (∆x∆y∆z)1/3 is the length scale. It can be seen
that in the present study the mesh size is used as the filtering operator. A Van Driest
damping function accounts for the effect of the wall on sub-grid scales is adopted here
and takes the form as, lm = κy[1− exp(−y+25 )], where y is the distance to the wall and the
length scale is redefined as, ∆ = Min[lm, (∆x∆y∆z)
1/3]. Although other models which
employed dynamic procedures on determining the Smagorinsky constant (Cs) might be
more general and rigorous, the Smagorinsky model is computationally cheaper among
other eddy viscosity type LES models. Investigations carried out by Breuer and Rodi [10]
on the turbulent Poiseuille flow through a straight and bent square duct have indicated
that, the difference between the predicted turbulence statistics using dynamic models and
Smagorinsky model was only negligible.
3. Numerical and parallel Algorithms
A semi-implicit, fractional step method proposed by Choi and Moin [11] and the finite
volume method are employed to solve the filtered incompressible Navier-Stokes equations.
Spatial derivatives are approximated using second-order central difference schemes. The
non-linear terms are advanced with the Adams-Bashfoth scheme in time, whereas the
Crank-Nicholson scheme is adopted for the diffusion terms. The discretized algebraic
equations from momentum equations are solved by the preconditioned Conjugate Gradient
solver . In each time step a Poisson equation is solved to obtain a divergence free velocity
field. Because the grid spacing is uniform in the streamwise direction, together with the
adoption of the periodic boundary conditions, Fourier transform can be used to reduce
the 3-D Poisson equation to uncoupled 2-D algebraic equations. The algebraic equations
Prediction of secondary flow structure in turbulent Couette-Poiseuille duct flows 5
turbulence kinetic energy is been convected into the corner. Near the top corner, on the
other hand, high turbulence kinetic energy generated near the side wall has been convected
into the core region of the duct horizontally. The predicted normal Reynolds stresses and
primary shear stress profiles normalized by the plane average friction velocity at bottom
wall along wall-bisector (x/D = 0.5) are given in Figure 5(d). Here, the DNS data of plane
Couette-Poiseuille (r=1.16, Kuroda et al. [14]) flows and plane channel flows (Moser et
al. [15]) are also included for comparisons. The r value of the plane Couette-Poiseuille
flow is close to 1.17 of case CP3. Near the stationary wall, it is not surprising to observe
that predicted turbulence intensities are similar of all cases considered, indicating that
the influence of moving wall is not significant. On the contrary, near the top moving wall,
gradual reductions of turbulence are predicted in tandem with the increase of the moving
wall velocity. The profiles in the plane Couette-Poiseuille flow of Kuroda et al. [14] also
show this differential levels and agree with present results for case CP2 and CP3, where
the operating levels of r are similar. Near the stationary wall (y/D < 0.05), < v′w′ >
appears to be unaffected by the moving wall. The gradients of the < v′w′ > of case CPs
in the core region are less than case P and the position of < v′w′ >= 0 are shifted toward
the moving wall. The same behaviors were found in the experimental study of Thurlow
and Klewicki [16] and they concluded that the position of zero Reynolds shear stress
would shift to the lower stress wall if the wall stresses in a channel are not symmetric.
The shifting of the zero Reynolds stress location implies that there are stronger vertical
interactions of fluctuations across the duct center.
4.3. Anisotropy invariant map
The above discussion has revealed that the turbulence inside the turbulent Couette-
Poiseuille duct flows is very anisotropic. The anisotropy invariant map (AIM) is in-
troduced here in order to provide more specific description of the turbulence struc-
tures. The invariants of the Reynolds stress tensors are defined as II = −(1/2)bijbji
, III = (1/3)bijbjkbki and bij =< u
′
iu
′
j > / < u
′
ku
′
k > −1/3δij. A cross-plot of −II versus
III forms the anisotropy invariant map (AIM). All realizable Reynolds stress invariants
must lie within the Lumley triangle [17]. This region is bounded by three lines, namely two
component state, −II = 3(III+1/27), and two axi-symmetric states, III = ±(−II/3)3/2.
For the axi-symmetric states, Lee and Reynolds [18] described the positive and negative
III as disk-like and rod-like turbulence, respectively. The intersections of the bounding
lines represent the isotropic, one-component and two-component axi-symmetric states of
turbulence. An demonstration of the Lumley triangle [17] is given in Figure 6.
The AIM at two horizonal locations across the duct height is presented in Figure 7.
Near the stationary wall (y/D ≤ 0.5), turbulence behaviors of different Couette-Poiseuille
flows resemble those of the Poiseuille flow. In particular, along x/D=0.5, the turbulence
structure is similar to the plane channel flow, where turbulence approaches two-component
state near the stationary wall due to the highly suppressed wall-normal velocity fluctuation
(Moser et al. [15]). It moves toward the one-component state till y+ ∼ 8 (Salinas-
Va´zquez and Me´tais [5]) and then follows the positive III axi-symmetric branch (disk-like
turbulence, Lee and Reynolds [18]) to the isotropic state at the duct center. However, near
the moving wall due to the reduction of the streamwise velocity fluctuation at the moving
wall, turbulence structure gradually moves towards a rod-like axi-symmetric turbulence
Prediction of secondary flow structure in turbulent Couette-Poiseuille duct flows 7
REFERENCES
1. L. Prandtl, Uber die ausgebildete turbulenz, Verh. 2nd Intl. Kong. Fur Tech. Mech.,
Zurich,[English translation NACA Tech. Memo. 435, 62]. (1926)
2. N. Fukushima, N. Kasagi, The effect of walls on turbulent flow and temperature fields,
in: Proceedings of Turbulent Heat Transfer III, Anchorage, USA (2001).
3. M. Hirota, H. Fujita, H. Yokosawa et al, Turbulent heat transfer in a square duct,
Int. J. Heat and Fluid flow 18, (1997) 170-180.
4. M. Piller, E. Nobile, Direct numerical simulation of turbulent heat transfer in a square
duct, Int. J. Numerical methods for heat and fluid flow, 12 (2002) 658-686.
5. M. Salinas-Va´zquez and O. Me´tais, Large eddy simulation of the turbulent flow
through a heated square duct, J. Fluid Mech. 453 (2002) 201-238.
6. M. Salinas-Va´zquez, W. Vicente Rodriguez, R. Issa, Effects of ridged walls on the heat
transfer in a heated square duct, Int. J. Heat and Mass Transfer 48, (2005) 2050-2063.
7. J. Pallares and L. Davidson, Large eddy simulations of turbulent heat transfer in
stationary and rotating square ducts, Physics of Fluids 14, (2002) 2804-2816.
8. W. Lo and C. A. Lin, Large Eddy Simulation of turbulent Couette-Poiseuille flows in a
square duct, in: Proceedings of Parallel Computational Fluid Dynamics, Washington,
USA (2005).
9. J. Smagorinsky, General circulation experiments with the primitive equations. I. The
basic experiment., Mon. Weather Rev. 91, (1963) 499-164.
10. M. Breuer, W. Rodi, Large eddy simulation of turbulent flow through a straight square
duct and a 180 degree bend, Direct and Large-Eddy Simulation I, eds. P. R. Voke et
al., Kluwer Academic Publishers, (1994) 273-285.
11. H. Choi and P. A. Moin, Effects of the Computational Time Step on Numerical
Solutions of Turbulent Flow, J. Comput. Phys, 113 (1994) 1-4.
12. W. Lo, Large Eddy Simulation of turbulent Couette-Poiseuille flows inside a square
duct, PhD thesis, National Tsing Hua University, TAIWAN (2006).
13. A. Huser and S. Biringen, Direct numerical simulation of turbulent flow in a square
duct, J. Fluid Mech. 257 (1993) 65-95.
14. A. Kuroda, N. Kasagi, and M. Hirata, Direct numerical simulation of turbulent plane
CouetteVPoiseuille flows: Effect of mean shear rate on the near wall turbulence struc-
tures, Proceeding of the 9th Symposium on Turbulent Shear Flow, Kyoto, Japan,
pp.8.4.1-8.4.6 (1993).
15. R. D. Moser, J. Kim, and N. N. Mansour, Direct numerical simulation of turbulent
channel flow up to Reτ = 590, J. Fluid Mech. 177 (1999) 943-945.
16. E. M. Thurlow and J. C. Klewicki, Experimental study of turbulent Poiseuille-Couette
flow, Physics of Fluids, 4 (2000) 865-875.
17. J. L. Lumley, Computational modeling of turbulent flows, Advances in Applied Me-
chanics, 18 (1978) 123-176.
18. M. J. Lee and W. C. Reynolds, Numerical experiments on the structure of homo-
geneous turbulence,” Report TF-24, Thermoscience Division, Stanford University
(1985).
