 1
???? 
 
?????????????????????????????? 
 
????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????-????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
????????????????????????????????? 
????????????????????????????????????
???????????-??-????????????????????????
?????????????????????1????????????????
????????????????????2?????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
??????????????????????????????????????
???????????????????? 
????????????????????????????????????
?????????????????????????????????????
????????????? 
 
???? 
 
Keywords: operating cash flows, sales flows, cost flows, prediction mode, integration 
 
Operating cash flows are a conglomeration of sales revenues (sales flows) and operating 
expenses (cost flows) that includes cost of goods sold, payments for salaries, utilities, interest, 
and so forth. The importance of operating cash flow (CF) predictions to the performance of 
operating working capital management of a firm has been a consensus among researchers and 
practitioners alike. While operating cash flow prediction methods, principally the 
cost-schedule integration (CSI) technique, have evolved to permit detailed forecasts for 
individual projects, the evolvement of these methods has been limited to allow only detailed 
cost flow predictions. Such asymmetrical evolvement of these operating CF prediction models 
has critically influenced their reliability. 
Responding to the problem and limiting the focus to general contracting firms in the 
construction industry, we propose a total solution approach, developing a cost-schedules-sales 
integration (CSSI) prototype system for multi-level net operating CF predictions. To 
accomplish our research objective, we have developed two research questions. The questions 
include: 1) how we develop an operating CF model that provides the balance of development 
between the forecasting mechanisms of outflows and inflows as to increase the accuracy of 
net operating CF predictions, and 2) How we develop the CSSI prediction model into a 
computer prototype system that implements the full functions of CSSI. 
Answers to the questions call for the development of some important understandings and 
extensions to the state of knowledge about operating CF predictions both in the construction 
and financial domain. Therefore, several strong methodologies are needed. These include: 
 3
increase the accuracy of operating CFs by presenting the integration of cost and schedule 
information (cost flows) in the resource-based level. Chen et al. (2004, accepted) conclude 
that payment conditions of general contractors to vendors have significant effects on cost 
flows, and they have to be included in cost flow predictions. As such, cost flow forecasting 
mechanisms have therefore evolved far more sophisticated than sales flow forecasting 
mechanisms. Such asymmetrical development of these operating CF prediction models has 
critically influenced their reliability.  
1.2.  Objective of this research 
Responding to these limitations discussed above and restricting the focus to general 
contractors in the construction industry, we propose the development of a multi-level cost 
flow forecasting model capable of absorbing the effects of payment components and 
frequency in the payment conditions, rectifying the problems in the logic of the schedule 
between construction and cost activities, and coping with uncertainty in the conditions of 
progress payments.  To reach automatic levels of creating project- and firm- level cost flow 
predictions, we further propose the development of a prototype integrated 
cost-payment-schedules system on the basis of the model’s algorithm. 
Taking into account the tasks of our prototype integrated cost-payment-schedules system, 
we have developed three research questions (sections 3.1 to 3.3).  Answers to each of these 
research questions claim significant contributions to the state of knowledge, and we treat each 
of them in turn.  Collectively, this research will develop new theory and abstractions that are 
well grounded in both experiment and empirical observations, leading to the creation of 
accurate, reliable cost flow predictions.  As a result, optimal utilization of general 
contractors’ working capital can be better achieved. 
1.3.  Limitations of existing approaches to cost flow predictions 
CFs, created with operating, investing, and financing activities, are the inflows and 
outflows of cash into and out of a business (Needles et al., 1999). Operating activities are 
defined to be those transactions that are neither investing nor financing activities. Investing 
activities include purchasing and selling long-term productive assets and equity and debt 
investments that are cash equivalents, as well as making and collecting loans. Financing 
activities includes issuing equity securities and long-term and short-term liabilities, paying 
dividends to stockholders, purchasing treasury stock, and repaying cash loans. Thus, 
operating CFs include the cash inflows related to sales revenues and the cash outflows related 
to operating expenses such as payments to subcontractors and suppliers of goods or services 
and payments for salaries, utilities, tax, and interest. From a modeling perspective, operating 
CFs are defined as predictions of sales revenues and operating expenses as a function of time. 
Future operating CFs have proven to be more difficult to generate than future investing and 
financing CFs due to complexity. For example, there are typically many transactions 
generating revenues and expenses, partial payments are billed and received, and partial 
payments are made to vendors. 
There exist a large number of approaches and methods for projecting future CFs, varying 
wildly in the level of complexity and accuracy. According to the data and methodologies used 
by these approaches and models, they can be categorized into two groups: accounting-based 
models (e.g., Barth et al., 2001; Bernard and Stober 1989; Bowen et al., 1986; Dechow et al., 
1998; Lorek and Willinger, 1996; Nikkinen and Sahlstrom, 2004; McBeth, 1993; Wilson, 
1986, 1987) and project-based models (e.g., Abudayyeh and Rasdorf, 1993; Ashley and 
Teicholz, 1977; Carr, 1993; Hwee and Tiogn, 2002; Kaka, 1996; Kaka and Lewis, 2003; 
Kaka and Price, 1993; Kenley and Wilson, 1986, 1989; Navon, 1995; Peer, 1982; Sears 1981; 
 5
forecasting future monthly CFs of housing and public buildings. Subsequent work (e.g., 
Berny and Howes, 1982; Kenley, 1999; Kenley and Wilson, 1986, 1989) suggests that 
construction projects are unique that their operating CFs should be considered as individual 
and unique. Kenly (1999) further refined this concept and developed an idiographic operating 
CF model, using regression techniques and historical data. Kenley’s model is able to simulate 
operating CFs based on the project value, the project duration, and the constants ? and ?, 
which are derived from two samples totaling 72 projects creating a range of possible values 
for these two constants.  
Recent research (e.g., Hwee and Tiogn, 2002; Kaka and Lewis, 2003) develop more 
sophisticated cost S-curve profile models which are equipped with progressive construction 
data feedback mechanisms. The accuracy of these mathematical models is largely enhanced 
due to the capability of updating and readjusting cost S-curve profiles as projects are 
underway. In particular, Kaka and Lewis (2003) further develop a company-level cash flow 
model that accounts for both known and unknown individual projects at the time of the 
forecast.  
Another group of authors in the category of the project-based models have modeled 
operating CFs, prior to or under construction of projects, through the use of the cost-schedule 
integration (CSI) (e.g., ????, 1998; Abudayyeh and Rasdorf, 1993; Carr, 1993; Harris 
and McCaffer, 1990; Fayek, 2001; Navon, 1995). CSI models assume that operating CFs 
realized on a project are a function of the project schedule (Sears 1981). CSI models therefore 
produce outflows either as a continuous function summing costs of scheduled activities, or in 
more refined models, as a periodic function of completed activities. Sears (1981) and 
Abudayyeh and Rasdorf (1993) formulated the basic approaches and computer 
implementations for CSI techniques. Carr (1991, 1993) provided refinements to accounting 
for schedule variances in cost flow predictions. Building from this work, Navon (1995, 1996) 
refines the CSI technique to account for time lags between application for payment and actual 
disbursement of funds, providing a model that assumes monthly dates for application of 
payments by vendors. Navon (1997) also provides models to account for inflation. Building 
on this level of detail, recent research (e.g., Fayek, 2001) further discusses fusing CSI 
techniques with firms’ accounting systems.  
However, despite the volume of research that has been performed to predict future 
operating CFs, there exist only limited models and approaches that incorporate future inputs 
(i.e., future business transactions of operating activities) to model future operating CFs. The 
majority of previous research studies have focused on modeling operating CF mechanisms 
from historical data. These models are principally used for pre-estimating operating CFs for 
strategic operation plans at the firm level and for the post hoc analysis of operating CFs due to 
two fundamental reasons. First, they are based on the generic level of data, incapable of going 
down to the resource level’s analysis.  For instance, although considering time lags, they 
only account for the average lags (e.g., Kenley and Wilson [1986] used an average of 45 days 
as the time lag for subcontractors’ and suppliers’ accounts.), while a large volume of models 
only are only capable of predicting annual CFs (e.g., Bowen et al., 1986; Dechow et al., 
1998).  
Second, predicting future operating CFs based on historical data is implicitly assuming 
that there exists close similarity between ongoing and past projects, or between ongoing and 
past business transactions. These models therefore utilize either the operating CFs of 
historical projects to predict future operating CFs of ongoing projects (e.g., Hwee and Tiogn, 
2002; Kaka, 1996; Kaka and Lewis, 2003; Kaka and Price, 1993; Kenley and Wilson, 1986, 
1989) or a combination of past business transactions and operating CFs to predict future 
operating CFs (e.g., Barth et al., 2001; Dechow et al., 1998; Lorek and Willinger, 1996). For 
example, Kenley (1999) employed 72 individual projects to formulate an idiographic model 
 7
inflows as to increase the accuracy of net operating CF predictions? 
As demonstrated in section 2 of this proposal, the key limitation that exists in operating 
CF prediction models based on the CSI techniques is the problem of unbalanced development 
between inflows and outflows. This problem adversely influences the accuracy of net 
operating CF predictions due to unreliable inflows (sales flows) forecasting. To decouple the 
creation of net operating CF predictions from this problem requires the development of new 
methods. Therefore, the primary contribution of research question 1 is to create an operating 
CF model that predicts future sales flows as accurate as future cost flows.  
The methodology to generate this novel operating CF model is threefold. First, using 
survey research methods with the systematic sampling technique detailed in (Foddy, 1993; 
Fowler, 2001; Leedy, 2001), we will investigate what the general payment conditions of 
project owners to general contracting firms are. Research performed by O'Brien (1995, 1997) 
and Chen et al. (2004, accepted) suggest that there is a need to understand the details of 
compensation conditions to support implementation of quantitative modeling. While detailed 
knowledge about payment conditions of general contractors to vendors is well documented in 
the construction literature (e.g., Chen, 2002; Chen et al., 2004, accepted), there is a scarcity of 
documentation detailing common payment conditions of project owners to contractors. Thus, 
the first step allows this research to record payment conditions of project owners and to 
develop the necessary knowledge that supports quantitative modeling of sales flow 
forecasting.  
Second, in conjunction with the data collected in the first step, we will examine what 
level of detail and corresponding CF conditions should be modeled in the mechanism of sales 
flows to achieve a desired level of accuracy. This is a critical step, since it helps this research 
discard redundant variables that do not significantly contribute to the accuracy of sales flows 
and, hence, increase the CF model’s efficiency. Third, together with the findings in step 2 and 
the work of the previous research (contract No. NSC 93-2211-E-214-010), we will formalize 
the level of detail and corresponding CF conditions that should be modeled in the mechanism 
of sales flows for constructing a cost-schedules-sales integration (CSSI) operating CF 
prediction model. This will be achieved using the explanation building technique that is well 
detailed in (Yin, 1994). And the model’s formulation will be further shaped using additional 
guidelines on existing work (e.g., ????, 1995, 1995, 1998; ???, 1992; Chen, 2002; 
Kenley, 1999; Navon, 1995, 1996, and 1997).  
With the survey research methodologies, it is relatively easy to gather desired raw data 
of detailed payment conditions of project owners to general contracting firms. Similarly, with 
existing research of relevance to CF modeling (e.g., ????, 1998; Chen, 2003 and 2004 
(submitted); Navon, 1996, 1997), it is comparatively easy to model the CSSI operating CF 
model. Challenges come from the determination of the level of detail and corresponding CF 
conditions that should be modeled in the mechanism of sales flows for CSSI. Handling this 
problem requires some meaningful understanding of how to design feasible experiments 
associated with statistical generation in research that offers compelling evidence. At this time, 
we expect to resolve this problem using factorial experiments that are detailed in 
(Montgomery, 2001; Ott, 1993).  
2.2. Research question 2: How do we develop the CSSI prediction model into a computer 
prototype system that implements the full functions of CSSI? 
Our proposed prototype architecture is depicted in Figure 1. The architecture of this 
prototype system is composed principally of symmetrical modules in the echo of research 
question 1. The symmetrical modules include: Sales-Schedule Integration (SSI) and 
 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: CSSI System and its Architecture 
CSSI 
Algorithm
Cost Scheduling 
Mechanism 
Cost 
Composition 
Cash-Receipt 
Scheduling 
Mechanism 
Cash-Receipt 
Composition 
Payment 
Scheduling 
Mechanism 
Payment 
Composition 
Sales
Scheduling 
Mechanism 
Sales 
Composition 
CSI 
PSI 
SSI 
CRSI 
Data 
Recon-
ciliation 
and 
Storage 
Data 
Recon-
ciliation
and 
Storage
Data Sources Data Sources 
Cash Receipt 
Flows 
Sales Flow 
Forecasts
Payment 
Flows 
Cost Flow 
Forecasts 
 11
research are useful for enhancing cash flow forecasting ability and, thus, increasing working 
capital’s optimal utilization of construction firms in the industry. 
 13
Flow Prediction and Management."  PhD dissertation, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
FL.  
Chen, H.L., (2003). "Automatic Sales-Schedule Integration for Cash Flow Forecasting." 
Proceedings of the 9th East Asia-Pacific Conference on Structural Engineering & 
Construction, December 16-18, Bali, Indonesia, pp. 18-23.  
Chen, H.L. and Chen, W.T. (2000). "An Interactive Cost-Schedule/Payment-Schedule 
Integration Model for Cash Flow Forecasting and Controlling." 17th International 
Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction, Taipei, Taiwan, pp.659-663.  
Chen, H. L., O'Brien, W. J., and Herbsman, Z. (2004, accepted) "Assessing the Accuracy of 
Cash Flow Models: the Significance of Payment Conditions." Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, ASCE, Accepted for publication.  
Dell'isola, A. J. (1997). Value Engineering: Practical Applications...for Design, Construction, 
Maintenance & Operations, R.S. Means, Kingston.  
Dechow, P. M., Kothari, S. P., and Watts, R. L. (1998). "The Relation between Earnings and 
Cash Flows." Journal of Accounting and Economics, 25, pp. 133-168.  
Drake, B. E. (1978). "A Mathematical Model for Expenditure Forecasting Post Contract." 
Proceedings of the 2nd International Symposium on Organisation and Management of 
Construction, Haifa, Israel, pp. 163-183.  
Fayek, A. R. (2001). "Activity-Based Job Costing for Integrating Estimating, Scheduling, and 
Cost Control." Journal of Cost Engineering, 43(8), pp. 22-32.  
Foddy, W. (1993). Constructing Questions for Interviews and Questionnaires, Cambridge 
University Press.  
Fowler, F. J. (2001). Survey Research Methods, 3rd Ed., Sage, London, U.K.  
Gates, M., and Scarpa, A. (1979). "Preliminary Cumulative Cash Flow Analysis." Journal of 
Cost Engineering, 21(6), pp. 243-249.  
Harris, F. and McCaffer, R. (1990). Modern Construction Management, 3rd Ed., BSP 
Professional Books, Oxford, U.K.  
Hwee, N. G. and Tiogn, R. L. (2002) " Model on Cash Flow Forecasting and Risk Analysis for 
Contracting Firms." International Journal of Project Management,20(5), pp. 351-363.  
Jackson, I. J., and Gilliam, M. H. (1999). Financial Management for Contractors, 3rd Ed., 
FMI, New York..  
Kaka, A. P. (1996). "Towards More Flexible and Accurate Cash Flow Forecasting." 
Consturction Management and Economics, 14(1), pp. 35-44.  
 15
Houghton Mifflin, Boston.  
Nikkinen, J., and Sahlstrom, P. (2004). "Impact of an Accounting Enviroment on Cash Flow 
Prediction." Journal of International Accounting, Auditing & Taxation, 13(1) pp.39-52.  
O'Brien, W. J. (1997). "Construction supply-chains: case study, integrated cost and 
performance analysis." Lean Construction, L. Alarcón, ed., A. A. Balkema, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands, pp. 187-222. 
O'Brien, W. J., Fischer, M. A., and Jucker, J. V. (1995). "An economic view of project 
coordination." Construction Management and Economics, 13(5), pp. 393-400.  
Ott, R. L. (1993). An Introduction to Statistical Methods and Data Analysis, 4th Ed., 
Wadsworth, California.  
Peer, S. (1982). "Application of Cost-Flow Forecasting Models." Journal of Construction 
Division, Preceedings of the American Society of Civil Engineers, 108(2), pp. 226-232.  
Peer, S. (1982). "Application of Cost-Flow Forecasting Models." Journal of Construction 
Division, ASCE, 108(2), pp. 226-232.  
Peer, S., and Rosental, H. (1982). Development of Cash Flow Model for Industrialized 
Housing, National Building Research Station, Technion, Haifa, Israel.  
Proper, K. R. (1983). Objective Knowledge, Oxford University Press: Oxford.  
Reinschmidt, K. F. and Frank, W. E. (1976). " Construction Cash Flow Management System." 
Journal of the Construction Division, Proceedings of the American Society of Civil 
Engineering, 102 (CO4), pp. 615-627.  
Sears, G. A. (1981). "CPM/COST: An Integrated Approach." Journal of Construction Division, 
ASCE, 107(2), pp. 227-238.  
Sidford, C. (1997). "Designing an Effective Cash Flow Forecasting Program." The 
Management Accounting Magazine, 71(7), pp. 18-23.  
Singh, S. and Woon, P. W. (1984). "Cash Flow Trends for High Rise Building Projects." In 
Organizing and Managing Construction.  Proceedings of the 4th International 
Symposium on Organization and Management of Construction, University of Waterloo, 
Canada.  
Trochim, W. (1989). "Concept Mapping for Evaluation and Planning." Evaluation and 
Program Planning, 12(1) pp. 1-111.  
Wilson, G. T. (1986). "The Relative Information Content of Accurals and Cash Flows: 
Combined Evidence at the Earnigns Announcement and the Actual Report Release Data." 
Journal of Accounting Research, 24 (Supplement), pp. 165-200.  
 17
Analyzing the contractors’ supply chain payment conditions 
 
Hong Long Chen* 
 
*Assistant Professor, Department of Industrial Engineering and Management, I-Shou University, No.1, Sec.1, 
Syuecheng Rd., Dashu Township, Kaohsiung County, Taiwan, Tel: +886-7-657-7711 ext. 5527, Fax: 
+886-7-657-8536, Email: along314@isu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Research on supply chain payment and detailed quantitative operating cash flow modeling 
requires detailed data concerning project owners, specialist contractors, and suppliers to 
support implementation efforts. Supporting this need, survey data was gathered from 116 
construction contracting firms in Taiwan. Complementing previous studies, the survey data 
quantifies the range of contractor typical time lags, components, and frequency of payments 
from project owners, and to suppliers and specialist contractors. The categorical statistical 
analysis of the data shows that the pattern of contractor supply chain payment conditions 
regarding project owners is significantly affected by the sector variable (public vs. private). 
Further analysis also demonstrates that while the variables of contractor supply chain payment 
conditions (time lags, components, and frequency) to suppliers and specialist contractors are 
significantly influenced by project owners, these variables considerably interact with one 
another under certain circumstances. However, little evidence supports the existence of a 
trade-off relationship between these variables due to project owners in the event of 
interaction. 
 
Keywords: Supply chain management, specialist contractors, project owners, behavior patterns, 
payment conditions 
 19
1. Introduction and background 
 
While the importance of cash flow management to the project profitability, a measure of 
project performance, has been acknowledged (e.g., Kaka and Lewis, 2003; Navon, 1995, 
1996 1996; Park et al., 2005), little empirical work has been performed in behavioral analysis 
of supply chain payment conditions that significantly influence cash flow management of 
contracting firms. Such behavioral analysis is important, as it provides project owners, 
contractors, suppliers, and specialists with useful information about how each of these parties 
might respond to changes of payment conditions on account of cash flow manipulation. 
Recent research performed by Chen et al. (2005) further investigated the influence of 
contractor supply chain payment conditions on cash flows. They concluded that payment lags, 
components, and frequency significantly affect cash flows from the test results of three-way 
factorial experiments. Nevertheless, despite the importance of supply chain payment 
conditions to cash flow management of contracting firms, little empirical work has been 
conducted in the area. For example, Uher (1991) and Hinze and Tracey (1994) reported that 
specialist contractors generally face difficult contract and payment conditions, such as 
extreme payment time lags and late payments. Bennett and Ferry (1990) and Gray and 
Flanagan (1989) noted similar difficulties and described the general actions taken by 
specialists to protect their operations. However, little previous research described the range of 
specific timing, components, and frequency of payment conditions that would support further 
detailed quantitative modeling of cash flows. 
In particular, behavioral analysis of supply chain payment conditions in construction that 
clarifies the payment behaviors of contractors concerning payment lag, component, and 
frequency variables, is confined mainly to contractor-supplier dyads (e.g., Chen and Chen, 
2005), little is publicized about owner-contractor dyads. Thus, relatively little is publicized 
about owner-contractor-supplier (or -specialist) triads. Such behavioral analysis is important, 
as it may provide project owners, contractors, suppliers, and specialists with useful 
information about how each of these parties should act in response to changes of payment 
conditions as a consequence of cash flow manipulation. 
 
2. Research question and methodology 
 
To support the analysis of construction supply chain payment behavior, a basic research 
question was posed: What are the behavioral patterns of general contracting firms regarding 
payments from project owners and payments to specialist contractors and suppliers? Rather 
than chose project owners, specialist contractors, or suppliers as the basic unit of analysis, a 
choice was made to use general contractors as the basic unit of analysis. As general 
contractors are able to serve as a nexus of supply chain analysis between specialist contractors 
and suppliers and project owners. Further, querying general contractors would likely provide 
more effective data, since general contractors for which numerous specialists and suppliers 
might work are likely to work for several project owners. 
The data collection was by survey and focused on gathering the common details and 
identifying the common behavioral patterns of general contracting firms regarding the 
payment lag, component, and frequency variables in supply chain payment conditions. 
Following case research involving two general contracting firms, which provided a basic 
understanding of payment conditions for formulating survey questions, a draft questionnaire 
was devised using a combined open-end and multiple-choice format. After a pilot study was 
further conducted involving several general contractors, the final version of the questionnaire 
was created, and comprises three sections based on the research questions posed. 
 21
therefore rejected, implying that the time lag variable of contractor supply chain payment 
conditions to suppliers depends on that from project owners when NPSPO exists. Similar 
conclusions are also drawn for hypotheses 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17 of 
overall hypothesis 1 that the null hypotheses are rejected. 
 
Table 2 Common payment conditions of the general contracting firms to specialist contractors 
Specialist Contractors 
 
 
 
Firms 
 
Application 
Dates of the 
Month 
Time between 
Application 
Submission and 
Approval 
 
 
Payment Frequency 
(Times of a month)
 
 
Payment Lags and Split between 
Labor and Materials  
1 15th of the 
month 
7 days Once a month 15 (L) and 60 days (M) 
20-50 (L) and 80-50 % (M) 
When no split, lags are 15 days
2 15th of the 
month 
5 days Once a month 15 (L) and 30 days (M) 
20 (L) and 80 % (M) 
When no split, lags are 15 days
3 10th of the 
month 
10 days Once a month 20 (L) and 60 days (M) 
25-50 (L) and 75-50 % (M) 
When no split, lags are 20 days 
 
Table 3 Common payment conditions of the general contracting firms to suppliers 
Suppliers 
 
 
 
Firms 
 
Application 
Dates of the 
Month 
Time between 
Application 
Submission and 
Approval 
 
 
Payment Frequency 
(Times of a month)
 
 
Payment Lags and Split between 
Labor and Materials  
1 15th of the 
month 
7 days Once a month 60 days 
No payment split 
2 15th of the 
month 
5 days Once a month 30 days 
No payment split 
3 10th  of the 
month 
10 days Once a month 45-60 days 
No payment split 
 
Because of the rejection of the hypotheses, overall hypothesis 1 is therefore rejected. 
This study concludes that the frequency variable of contractor supply chain payment 
conditions to specialist contractors and suppliers depends on that from project owners (owing 
to the rejection of null hypothesis 8), and likewise the time lag (the rejection of null 
hypotheses 2, 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, and 13) and component variables (the rejection of null 
hypotheses 14, 15, 16, and 17). 
Specifically, those accepted individual hypotheses of overall hypothesis 1 (Table 3) 
suggest that the paired variables in each of the hypotheses are independent, indicating the 
probability of the negotiation failing as a result of the other of the paired variables is low. For 
example, when a specialist contractor negotiates with the general contractor to decrease 
material time lags to expedite its cash inflows, the probability of the negotiation failing as a 
result of the labor time lag variable from the project owner who splits payments between 
 1
Table 4 (Continued) 
Overall hypothesis Individual hypothesis Chi-square P-value Test result 
Ho9: The frequency variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions to 
suppliers does not depend on that from project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha9: Ho9 is not all true. 
1.6059 0.4480 Acceptance 
Ho10: The frequency variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions to 
suppliers does not depend on that from project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha10: Ho10 is not all true. 
3.1399 0.2081 Acceptance 
Ho11: The time lag variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions to 
suppliers does not depend on the material time lag variable from project 
owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha11: Ho11 is not all true. 
90.9075 <.0001 Rejection 
Ho12: The labor time lag variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions to 
specialist contractors does not depend on the material time lag variable from 
project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha12: Ho12 is not all true. 
26.0376 0.0037 Rejection 
Ho13: The material time lag variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions 
to specialist contractors does not depend on the material time lag variable 
from project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha13: Ho13 is not all true. 
65.3792 <.0001 Rejection 
Ho14: The percent labor variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions to 
specialist contractors does not depend on the percent labor variable from 
project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha14: Ho14 is not all true. 
35.4109 0.0035 Rejection 
Ho15: The percent material variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions 
to specialist contractors does not depend on the percent labor variable from 
project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha15: Ho15 is not all true. 
42.5844 0.0003 Rejection 
Ho16: The percent labor variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions to 
specialist contractors does not depend on the percent material variable from 
project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha16: Ho16 is not all true. 
39.816 0.0008 Rejection 
 
Ho17: The percent material variable of contractor supply chain payment conditions 
to specialist contractors does not depend on the percent material variable 
from project owners when PSPO exists. 
Ha17: Ho17 is not all true. 
36.6970 0.0023 Rejection 
