中文摘要： 
 
隨著無線通信手機系統研製技術的進步，射頻系統晶片 (Radio-Frequency 
System-On-Chip，RF-SoC)現今主要應用已由數位電路與類比電路，推展至射頻積體電路、
奈米元件與微機電系統。為了節省設計成本與縮短設計時間，本計劃擬開發出一套『射頻
元件參數萃取與設計最佳化模型系統平台』。此系統平台技術特色為多功能自動化且能方
便運作，可供先進的奈米級互補型(N-P-N 與P-N-P)異質接面雙載極電晶體等元件的製程參
數萃取與等效電路密實模型(Compact Model)建立，同時也是超大型積體電路最佳化設計不
可或缺的關鍵技術之一。 
製程技術電腦輔助設計(TCAD)是複雜的電子電路設計與系統應用所亟需的工具。台
灣積體電路產業年產值達壹兆元，對於此類技術的依賴，當然日益加重。目前的商用奈米
元件模擬器，對於射頻奈米元件，雖可進行元件特性模擬與參數萃取，但是要達到最佳化
設計，仍須靠人工經驗耗費較長時間進行調整。面對此一瓶頸，若能有效運用先進的解析
方程式與演化數值方法與平台資訊技術，發展節省人力與成本的自動化工具，將可提昇我
國電子與半導體產業的競爭實力。 
本研究計劃實際執行後所獲致之成果可以針對開發成功的奈米級射頻電晶體元件在
不同操作模式下之特性進行分析與最佳化設計。此一系統平台的理論基礎在於結合以元件
物理為基礎推導出的解析方程式配合先進的多目標基因演化法與傳統的最佳化法、並加入
特有之智慧型迭代方式、以及高效率平行計算等高階技術，以期於最短時限內完成一維、
二維、三維元件參數評估、特性模擬與最佳化分析等功能。冀望能為技職體系院校培育從
事系統晶片設計與實作人才，並促進國內 IC 設計產業昇級。 
 
關鍵詞：製程技術電腦輔助設計、射頻系統晶片、演化平台、等效電路模型 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I 
報告內容：(IEEE Trans. Advanced Packaging, March 2008.) 
 
Dear Dr. Tseng:  
 
I am pleased to inform you that A Hybrid Evolutionary Modeling/Optimization Technique for 
Collector-Up/Down HBTs in RFIC and OEIC Modules TADVP-2006-074.R1 has been accepted 
for publication in the IEEE Transactions on Advanced Packaging.  
 
ALL of the following items are required to process your paper further. Please adhere to these 
guidelines so that we can avoid delays. IEEE Copyright Information and Form: To submit -- 
please log in to your Author Center in Manuscript Central, scroll down to the "Submitted 
Manuscripts" list, and click on the button "Copyright Submission" for this manuscript. Follow the 
directions to electronically submit the IEEE Copyright Form.  
 
SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT COLOR GRAPHICS:  
 
To improve the quality of your published manuscript -- please submit your graphics in color. 
THERE IS NO CHARGE FOR PUBLISHING COLOR GRAPHICS IN THE ON-LINE 
VERSION OF YOUR MANUSCRIPT.  
 
There IS A CHARGE for publishing color graphics in print. Our production department will 
contact you to ask if you would like to pay for color in print.  
 
MANUSCRIPT: General Information and Tools for Authors may be found at 
http://www.ieee.org/organizations/pubs/transactions/information.htm  
 
Questions on the preparation of the final manuscript may be addressed to trans@ieee.org.  
 
1. One copy of the final manuscript in electronic form complete with the text, abstract, references, 
graphics (TIFF, PS or EPS preferred), tables and author biographies (MS Word, WordPerfect, etc 
are acceptable; LaTex format is preferred). Format can be double-spaced, single-spaced and 
two-column; graphics within text or at end -- on cd, disk or via e-mail to tadvp@ieee.org  
 
2. One hard copy of the final manuscript (printed from the submitted electronic file.)  
 
3. Please mark all documents/files with manuscript id number.  
 
4. Editor-in-Chief Transmittal Form -- please include an additional page, if needed, for complete 
contact information on all authors  
 
PLEASE SUBMIT ALL FINAL MATERIAL TO:  
3 
參考文獻： 
 
1. H. C. Tseng, “A hybrid evolutionary modeling/optimization technique for collector-up/down 
HBTs in RFIC and MPIC modules,” accepted for publication in the IEEE Transactions 
Advanced Packaging (2007).   
2. H. C. Tseng, P. H. Lee, and J. H. Chou, “Improved design of thermal-via structures and 
circuit parameters for advanced collector-up HBTs as miniature high-power amplifiers,” 
IEICE Trans. Electronics, Vol.E90-C, No.2, pp.539-542 (2007).     
3. H. C. Tseng, P. H. Lee, and J. H. Chou, “Thermal performance analysis for packaging 
configuration design of multifinger GaInP collector-up HBTs as small high-power 
amplifiers,” accepted for presentation at The 8th International Conference on Electronics 
Packaging Technology (ICEPT2007), Shanghai, China, Aug. 14-17 (2007). 
4. P. H. Lee, J. H. Chou, and H. C. Tseng, “A compact thermal-via packaging design of 
GaInP/GaAs collector-up HBTs in small high-power amplifiers,” Proc. 2007 IEEE InP Conf. 
(IPRM’07), Matsue, Japan, pp. 161-164, May 14-18 (2007). 
5. H. C. Tseng, J. G. Shiau, and J. H. Chou, “Compact modeling of microwave and  
optoelectronic collector-up HBTs,” Proc. 4th Int. Workshop on Compact Modeling (IWCM’07, 
satellite workshop of the 2007 IEEE Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conf. 
(ASP-DAC)), pp. 31-34, Jan. 23-26 (2006) 
6. H. C. Tseng,  J. G. Shiau, and J. H. Chou, “An automatic parameter-extraction technique 
with application to nanoscale HBTs in RF-SOC,” Proc. 23rd Nat. Conf. on Mechanical 
Engineering, The Chinese Soc. Mechanical Engineers (CSME), B2-009, pp. 258-261, Nov. 
24-25 (2006)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利                                                          日期：96 年 10 月 29 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：建置綜合模式 EDA 模組化平台以最佳化內嵌先進異質接面
          電晶體之射頻系統晶片 
計畫主持人： 曾憲正        
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－168－019     學門領域：資訊學門一 (EA)
技術/創作名稱 EDA-Modular-based 射頻系統晶片最佳化參數萃取平台建置技術 
發明人/創作人 曾憲正 
技術說明 
中文： 
    隨著無線通信系統架構技術不斷的向前推進，發展出一套高效率
自動化電路系統參數模擬器之迫切性與日俱增。以異質接面電晶體
(HBT) 為 主 要 元 件 之 射 頻 系 統 晶 片  (Radio-Frequency
System-On-a-Chip，RF-SoC) 應用層面已由數位電路、類比電路，推展
至混合式射頻積體電路系統。為了節省設計成本與縮短設計時間，本
研究計劃擬建置『先進異質接面電晶體元件高頻參數萃取與射頻系統
晶片最佳化設計平台』。此一綜合型設計平台之特色為多功能、高效
率、自動化，可供奈米級互補型(N-P-N 與P-N-P)異質接面電晶體的製
程參數萃取與多樣化(結合解析網路分析矩陣、高階平行計算理論、全
方位遺傳基因演算法等)等效電路模型(包括S參數、電磁效應、寄生元
件效應)建立，同時也是未來超大型射頻積體電路系統階層化設計不可
或缺的關鍵技術之一。 
 為驗證所建置整合設計平台之可靠性及精確度，將針對以 III-V 
族/矽─鍺(SiGe)異質接面電晶體為主動元件之射頻積體電路於最短
時限內進行各種物理參數分析與電特性模擬。冀望本計劃之成功實現
將可為業界培育未來從事晶片研發、測試人才，並提昇國內 IC 設計
技術。 
值得一提的是，此一高效率自動化平台將可解決傳統射頻系統
設計所遭遇的問題，包括：額外元件測試結構之使用及以人工經驗為
導向之系統晶片參數最佳化過程。 
統極為複雜的分析模型中。 
3. 有效運用先進的演化數理方法與平台資訊技術，發展節省人力與成
本的自動化工具，提昇我國微電子與半導體產業整體競爭實力。 
 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
1.對於高階演化演算法計算及射頻元件結構系統之領域擴展，提出
  一套完整的智慧型平台架構理論，作為未來應用於各種不同結構的
  射頻晶片系統元件最佳化設計之參考依據，對學術研究及產業研發
  上皆具價值。 
 
2. 提供科技大學院校從事電腦輔助設計可用的一套最佳化工具，使技
   職大學體系經由半導體製程的模擬研究與產業界之實務技術連
   結。同時，培育學生在實際有效的模型建立及晶片系統實作過程中
   充分瞭解製程中的物理機制，將來畢業進入代工廠能從製程模擬中
   掌握及改善現有製程。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
Compact Modeling of Microwave and Optoelectronic Collector-Up HBTs 
 
 
Hsien-Cheng Tseng and Jr-Gang Shiau 
 
Nanotechnology R & D Center and  
Department of Electronic Engineering 
Kun Shan University 
Tainan 71003, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Tel : +886-6-2050521 
e-mail : hctseng2@giga.net.tw 
Jung-Hua Chou 
 
Department of Engineering Science 
National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan 70101, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Tel : +886-6-2757575-63324 
Fax : +886-6-2766549 
e-mail : jungchou@mail.ncku.edu.tw 
Abstract -  A systematic compact modeling methodology is 
presented for parameter extraction of microwave and 
optoelectronic collector-up HBTs. The validity of this efficient 
approach has been explored on InGaAs, SiGe, and ZnSe  
collector-up HBTs. Good coincidence between measured and 
model-calculated results is observed across the entire operating 
frequencies. Consistent extracted trends indicate that the 
advanced compact model is suitable to be implemented in 
electronic design automation (EDA) tools.   
I. Introduction 
 
Regarding the analysis and design of microwave and 
optoelectronic ICs using HBTs, compact models are often 
adopted to parameterize complicated transistor behaviors via 
relatively simple equations. The last decade has been an 
increasing transfer from the traditional optimization 
techniques to the more accurate and robust direct-extraction 
approaches, e.g., [1-4] for the T-topology and [5-7] for the 
hybrid-π equivalent circuits. HBT modeling approaches that 
consist of reducing the number of unknown elements by 
conducting complementary characterizations for 
independently estimating as many HBT parameters as possible 
have been suggested [8-10]. Above all, an accurate compact 
model, employed by an efficient modeling methodology, is 
preferably developed so that the model parameters represent 
something physical in the HBTs. There are fundamental 
limitations in applying lumped-element circuit models to 
simulate physical device structures, but such small-signal 
models can be remarkably effective at describing transistor 
behavior over a wide range of frequencies [11].    
Successful development of equivalent-circuit-based 
compact models establishes meaningful feedback channels 
between characterization/analysis and design/fabrication of 
transistors. This report presents efficient modeling 
methodology utilized in the direct extraction of small-signal 
parameters. These parameters are determined step-by-step 
through skillful manipulation of the novel two-port network 
formulas; a circuit parameter can be expressed in terms of 
admittance (Y) or impedance (Z) formulation. 
Pure analytic modeling methodology has been explored on 
InGaAs, SiGe, and ZnSe collector-up HBTs, including pnp as 
well as npn structures. The InGaAs and SiGe HBTs can be 
used as the major active components of low-noise amplifiers 
[12] for the microwave IC designs, and the ZnSe HBT can be 
used in optical decision circuit [13] for optoelectronic IC 
applications. 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. The complete hybrid-π small-signal model implemented in 
this modeling. 
 
II. Two-Port Network Formulation 
 
The two-port Z-matrix formulation for the hybrid-π 
equivalent circuit, as shown in Fig. 1, is derived as follows: 
 
Z =                  (1) 
11 12
21 22
Z Z
Z Z
⎛ ⎞⎜⎝ ⎠⎟
Z11=(Re+jω Le)+ (Rb+jω Lb)+ 1 gm
Z
Z
π
π+         (2) 
Z12=(Re+jω Le)+ 1 gm
Z
Z
π
π+              (3) 
Z21=(Re+jω Le)+ 1 gm
Z
Z
π
π+ + 1
m b
m
cg Z Z
g Z
π
π
−
+         (4) 
Z22=(Re+jω Le)+ (Rc+jω Lc)+ 1 gm
Z
Z
π
π+ + 1
bc
m
Z
g Zπ+     (5) 
with Zπ =
1
r
j r C
π
π πω+  and Zbc = 1
bc
bc bc
R
j R Cω+ .  
 
 
 
