  
 
利用 RFID 及 IPv6 實現的無所不在網路系統 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-142 -002 
執行期間：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 10 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：林嬿雯 
計畫參與人員：許芳瑜、梁政棋、黃國唐、沈介民 
 
摘要 
近來，無線射頻辨識系統(RFID：Radio Frequency Identification)被廣泛發展於物流業及供應鏈管理上各
種自動化辨識系統，是實現無所不在網路社會的重要技術。其中，碰撞（Collision）問題為影響辨識效
能重要的研究議題。當多個 Tags 同時送出訊號給 Reader，訊號碰撞將造成 Reader 無法正確辨識 Tag
資訊而必須重新辨識，造成辨識時間大大增加。因此，本研究提出以 ALOHA 為基礎防止碰撞
（Anti-Collision）的方法。模擬結果顯示，本研究所提出之方法，相較於 BT、Q Algorithm 以及 EDFSA
在確實可以減少碰撞次數，以較少的 Time slot 及時間完成辨識。 
關鍵字：無線射頻辨識系統、防碰撞、自適性、無所不在、以 ALOHA 為基礎 
 
Abstract 
Recently, the applications of RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) become more and more popular. In RFID 
systems, tag collisions take place when multiple tags are commenced by the RFID reader and send back their 
signals simultaneously. The reader is incapable of distinguishing these signals. An ALOHA-based 
anti-collision protocol is proposed in this research to reduce the chance of tag collisions and tag identification 
time. As shown in the simulation results, the proposed methods can reduce the exchanged traffic between the 
reader and tags and the total tag identification time. 
Keyword：RFID, Tag Anti-Collision, Adaptive, Ubiquitous, ALOHA-Based 
 
一、前言 
 
近年來，Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)無線辨識射頻系統是應用於物流業、供應鏈管理上的新技
術，是實現無所不在(Ubiquitous)網路社會的關鍵技術[1]。RFID 系統主要包含讀卡機(Reader)和電子標
籤(Tag)，其中，RFID Tag 上各自紀錄自己 ID 及其他相關資訊，每個 ID 編碼都是獨一無二的以用來識
別不同物件。由於 RFID Tag 體積小、成本低廉以及可非接觸式感測等優點而取代傳統條碼(Bar-Code)
使用上的不便。 
RFID 系統利用 Reader 發出查詢 Tag ID 的指令，Tag 透過無線頻道傳送 ID 到 Reader，進行式資料
辨識與存取。如何增加 Reader 辨識 Tag 的速度為重要的議題[2-4]，當兩個以上的 Tag 同時在相同的無
線頻道上傳送 Tag ID 訊號到 Reader，會發生訊號碰撞[2]，即 Reader 同時讀取多個 Tag 會造成訊號互
相干擾導致資料遺失而無法辨識 Tag 資訊，這樣的結果會增加系統辨識整體時間、引起不正確的辨識
結果並且浪費計算資源。因此，Reader 必須制定良好的 Tag 防碰撞協定避免 Tag 之間的訊號碰撞問題
  
 
Slot 傳送資料，確保 Tag 傳送資料到一半時不會發生碰撞，浪費前半段傳送的時間。因此 SA 演算法相
較於原始的 ALOHA 演算法減少了許多發生碰撞的機率，當一個 Slot 只有一個 Tag 傳送資料時，也就
是 Success Slot ，Reader 便能成功正確的辨識出該 Tag 傳送的資訊。但這個方法必須讓 Reader 和 Tag
之間的通訊的同步化。 
有關 Frame Slotted ALOHA(FSA) [5]，在 FSA 演算法裡，加入了 Frame 的概念，Frame 是由數個
Slots 所組成，Slot 的數目也代表著 Frame Size[7]，FSA 使用固定的 Frame Size，Reader 在讀取範圍內
藉由廣播(Broadcast)告知 Tag 目前 Frame Size，讓 Tag 在目前的 Frame 內選擇一個 Slot 傳送資料，發生
碰撞的 Tag 則進入下一回合在下一個 Frame 繼續傳送資料直到 Reader 辨識完所有 Tag 為止。這個方法
以回合的方式限制 Tag 選擇 Slot 的範圍，避免 Idle Slot 的產生而造成浪費，因此相對於 SA Algorithm
來說，更能提升辨識速度。雖然將 Frame Size 固定能使實作上較為簡單，但當 Tag 數量遠大於 Frame Size
時，Tag 發生碰撞的機會過於頻繁而必須不斷重新辨識，反而拖長了辨識時間；而當 Tag 數量遠小於
Frame Size 時，Tag 發生碰撞的機會大大的降低，但卻增加了 Idle Slot 的數目導致浪費，也不會加快辨
識速度。 
有關 Dynamic Frame Slotted ALOHA(DFSA) [2]，DFSA 演算法從 FSA 的缺點中發現必須適當的控
制 Frame Size 才能有效率的使用 Time Slot 資源辨識 Tag 資訊，因此 DFSA 在辨識過程中會透過 Reader
改變 Frame Size，Reader 利用上一回合的資訊(例如：Success Slot、Collision Slot 或是 Idle Slot 的數目)
來判定是否超過上限門檻值(Upper Threshold)決定下一回合 Frame Size 的改變。DFSA 演算法藉由調整
Frame Size 的方式相較於 FSA 演算法更能有效率的加快辨識速度。 
有關 Enhanced Dynamic Frame Slotted ALOHA(EDFSA) [7]，實驗結果顯示當 Tag 數目趨近於 Frame 
Size 時，其平均系統效能將會達到最高，且 Frame Size 最大值為 256，因此 EDFSA 演算法利用估算 Tag
數目的方式來調整 Frame Size，若估算的 Tag 數目超過門檻值，必須將發生碰撞的 Tag 切割成適當的
群組數量，將每一個群組的 Tag 數目控制在門檻值以下，並且每次只能有一個群組的 Tag 回覆 Reader
的指令確保平均系統效能可以維持在最高的情況。EDFSA 相較於 DFSA 更能準確的調整 Frame Size 至
適當的大小，也利用分群的概念減少碰撞發生的機率以維持系統的最佳效能。但當 Tag 數目龐大時，
EDFSA在初期估算Tag數目的準確度非常低，因此無法及時調整至最佳的 Frame Size導致Collision Slot
和 Idle Slot 增加，使得 Reader 必須進行更多回合的辨識而降低辨識速度。 
 
三、研究方法 
 
本研究提出一個以Frame Slotted ALOHA為基礎的防碰撞機制，其中，三種Time Slot的狀態包括Success 
Slot、Collision Slot、Idle Slot 定義如述。Success Slot 指一個 Time Slot 只有一個 Tag 的回覆訊號表示
Reader 能成功辨識該 Tag。而 Collision Slot 指一個 Time Slot 同時有兩個以上 Tag 的回覆訊號則發生碰
撞且 Reader 無法辨識任何 Tag 資訊。此外，Idle Slot 指一個 Time Slot 沒有任何 Tag 的回覆訊號造成 Slot
的浪費也增加辨識時間。演算法分為兩個階段： 
z 訊框大小調整：此階段以 Frame Slotted ALOHA 為基礎，並依照 Tag 之特性判斷是否為連續性 ID
或是分散式 ID，進一步決定該透過 Hash Operation 或是 Random Select 的方式選擇 slot 傳送 ID。
並進一步搭配恰當的門檻值來決定直接進入第二階段或是動態調整 Frame 大小以降低碰撞的機
率。我們將 Tag 選擇傳送 Slot 的方式分為兩種，分別是 Hash Operation 和 Random Select。在 Hash 
  
 
在此研究中，我們整理分析了一些防碰撞演算法的優缺點，並根據這些優缺點提出一個可以自適性訊
框調整和佇列負載平衡實現 RFID 電子標籤防碰撞之協定。結果顯示我們所提出的方法不論在系統辨
識所需回合數目或是 Time Slot 花費總數皆比兩者要來的少，意即以較少的訊號傳遞次數以及時間成本
就能完成辨識工作，也減少了通訊負擔。因此，我們所提出之方法在辨識速度及效能皆優於 EDFSA 和
BT 演算法，適合應用於即時性物件感測、監控、追蹤等。 
 
五、計畫成果自評部份 
 
原計劃提案規劃兩年內容，核定一年計劃經費，原計劃提案第一年部份，即 RFID Tag 防止碰撞機制設
計等，已獲致成果，自評本計劃之成果符合計畫預定目標。相關成果已發表於國際會議 IAM2010[15]，
將持續改善方法並整理發表。 
 
六、參考文獻 
 
[1] Stanford, V. Pervasive computing goes the last hundred feet with RFID systems, IEEE Pervasive 
Computing, 2 (2), pp.9-14. 
[2] Finkenzeller, K. in the book of RFID Handbook. United Kingdom: John Wiley and Sons, 2nd ed. 
[3] Banks, J., Hanny, D., Pachano, M.A. and Thompson, L.G., RFID Applied, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 
Hoboken. 
[4] Shih, D., Sun, P.L., Yen, D.C. and Huang, S.M., Taxonomy and survey of RFID anti-collision protocols, 
Computer and Communications, 29(11), pp. 2150-2166. 
[5] Abramson, N., The Aloha System-Another Alternative for Computer Communications, Fall Joint 
Computer Conference, pp. 281-285. 
[6] EPCglobal, TMEPC  Radio-Frequency Identity Protocols Class-1 Generation-2 UHF RFID Protocols for 
Communications at 860 MHz-960 MHz Version 1.0.9, EPCglobal. 
[7] Lee, S., Joo, S. and Lee, C., An Enhanced Dynamic Framed Slotted ALOHA Algorithm for RFID Tag 
Identification, the Second Annual international Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems: 
Networking and Services, IEEE Computer Society, pp. 166-174.  
[8] Cha, J.R. and Kim, J.H., Dynamic framed slotted ALOHA algorithms using fast tag estimation method for 
RFID system, in 3rd IEEE Consumer Communications and Networking Conference (CCNC), pp. 
768-772. 
[9] Huang, X. and Le, S., Efficient dynamic framed slotted ALOHA for RFID passive tags, in 9th 
International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology (ICACT) , pp. 94–97.  
[10] Hush, D. R. and Wood, C., Analysis of tree algorithms for RFID arbitration, International Symposium on 
Information Theory, pp. 107-116. 
[11] MIT AUTO-ID Center, Technical Report 860 MHz-930 MHz Class 1 Radio Frequency Identification 
Tag Radio Frequency & Logical Communication Interface Specification Candidate Recommendation, 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                           
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
The 2010 International Conference on Innovation and Management（IAM 2010）於馬來西亞槟城舉行，因
應暑期旺季機位安排提前出發，7 月 4 日由桃園機場搭機前往馬來西亞槟城，會議於 7-9 日分別安排 8
個 Session 進行論文發表。我與學生共同發表的論文題目為（An Anti-Collision Protocol for Mobile Tags in 
RFID Systems），安排於 7 月 8 日上午 Session E2 09:00-10:30 由 Prof. Syming Hwang 主持的場次進行口
頭發表論文。並於下午搭機返回桃園機場。發表論文的時間與地點如下： 
 
The 2010 International Conference on Innovation and Management (IAM 2010) 
Date: July 7- 10, 2010   Venue: Penang, Malaysia 
Session E2 09:00-10:30   July 8, 2010 (Thursday)   Room: Salon II 
Session Chair: Syming Hwang 
 
本次報告的論文題目是（An Anti-Collision Protocol for Mobile Tags in RFID Systems），主要討論在某
些應用中， RFID tags 頻繁進出 Reader 的感測範圍而形成 Tag Mobility 的環境，Reader 需重新辨識之
前已經辨識過的 Tag，如此一來將大幅增加 Reader 的工作負擔以及和 Tags 之間的通訊次數，造成電力
無謂的消耗，也使得辨識時間延遲等議題，而本文提出適用於 Tag Mobility 環境下的方法，可針對移入、
移出的 Tag 進行處理，減少許多辨識時間。在 Session Chair (Prof. Hwang)主持下順利報告論文。會中
多篇論文發表並有多人提出問題進行熱烈討論，收穫十分豐富。 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-142 -002 
計畫名稱 利用 RFID 及 IPv6 實現的無所不在網路系統 
出國人員
姓名 林嬿雯 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立臺中教育大學 
資訊科學學系副教授 
會議時間 99 年 7 月 7 日 至 
99 年 7 月 10 日 會議地點 馬來西亞槟城 
會議名稱 The 2010 International Conference on Innovation and Management 
發表論文
題目 An Anti-Collision Protocol for Mobile Tags in RFID Systems 
Yen-Wen Lin, Wei-Ting Syu, Jhih-Siang Wang, Fang-Yu Syu, Cheng-Chi Liang, Guo-Tang Huang, and Jie-Min Shen 
The 2010 International Conference on Innovation and Management, Penang, Malaysia, July 7- 10, 2010. 
 
3
An Anti-Collision Protocol for Mobile Tags in RFID Systems 
Yen-Wen Lin*, Wei-Ting Syu, Jhih-Siang Wang, Fang-Yu Syu, Cheng-Chi Liang, Guo-Tang 
Huang, and Jie-Min Shen 
Department of Computer and Information Science, National Taichung University, Taichung, 
Taiwan 
*Corresponding Author: ywlin@mail.ntcu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
The applications of RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) become more and more popular. 
In RFID systems, tag collisions take place when multiple tags are commenced by the RFID 
reader and send back their signals simultaneously. The reader is not able to distinguish these 
signals. Besides, in some applications such as inventory management, personal identification, 
and object tracking, the tags from time to time move in and out of a reader's interrogation 
zone. In this paper, an anti-collision protocol is proposed to reduce the probability of tag 
collisions. As shown in the simulation results, in the context of tag mobility, the proposed 
protocol can reduce the identification delay and the communication overhead between the 
reader and the tags.  
 
Keyword: RFID, Anti-Collision, Mobile Tag, Identification Delay, Communication Overhead
Yen-Wen Lin, Wei-Ting Syu, Jhih-Siang Wang, Fang-Yu Syu, Cheng-Chi Liang, Guo-Tang Huang, and Jie-Min Shen 
The 2010 International Conference on Innovation and Management, Penang, Malaysia, July 7- 10, 2010. 
 
5
 
In the proposed protocol, a few steps, including discriminating the stay tags, identifying the 
stay tags using AFQB (Lin et al., 2009), detecting the leaving tags, identifying the arriving 
tags; are involved to identify all the tags in the interrogation zone of a reader. 
 
 
Figure 1: Snapshot of Tag Mobility 
 
2.2 Data Structures 
To handle the tag identification, the data structures recording related information of the 
reader and the tags are shown in Table 1 and Table 2 separately.  
As shown in Table 1, three fields, including the R_Reader ID, the Identified Tag Number, 
and the Arriving Tag Number; are configured for a reader.  
1. R_Reader ID: The ID of this reader.  
2. Identified Tag Number: The total number of the tags successfully identified by this 
reader in previous inventory round.  
3. Arriving Tag Number: The number of the tags newly identified by this reader in current 
inventory round.  
 
Table 1: Data Structure of the Reader  
R_Reader ID Identified Tag Number Arriving Tag Number 
 
As shown in Table 2, four fields, including the T_Reader ID, the Allocated Slot Number, the 
Tag ID, and the State; are configured for a tag.  
1. T_Reader ID: The ID of the reader identifying this tag. 
2. Allocated Slot Number: The slot number assigned by the reader after being successfully 
Yen-Wen Lin, Wei-Ting Syu, Jhih-Siang Wang, Fang-Yu Syu, Cheng-Chi Liang, Guo-Tang Huang, and Jie-Min Shen 
The 2010 International Conference on Innovation and Management, Penang, Malaysia, July 7- 10, 2010. 
 
7
4. ACK: The reader sends the ACK command when an arriving tag is successfully 
identified. 
2.4.1 Discriminating the Arriving Tags 
Initially, all tags enters the Initial state after receiving the Start command (appended the 
reader ID) from the reader. If the received R_Reader ID equates the locally stored T_Reader 
ID, the tag is taken as a stay tag and it enters the Ready state. Otherwise, it is taken as an 
arriving tag and it enters the Wait state.  
2.4.2 Identifying the Stay Tags 
The tags currently stays in the Ready state can transfer in the allocated slot number assigned 
by the reader in previous inventory round and enters the Identified state.  
2.4.3 Deleting the Leaving Tags 
At the end of current inventory round, if a tag does not response at its allocated slot number, 
it is taken as a leaving tag. Note that, idle slots will cause unnecessary identification delay. 
Thus, the occupied slot number should be reused.  
2.4.4 Identifying the Arriving Tags  
The tags currently stay in the Wait state will be identified by the AFQB; which is previously 
proposed by the protocol proposed in (Lin et al., 2009). The values of related fields on the tag 
data structure are updated accordingly; which are given by expression (2), (3), and (4).  
 
           -1Allocated Slot Number Identified Tag Number Allocated Slot Number= +  (2)
          Identified Tag Number Identified Tag Number Arriving Tag Number= +  (3)
    0Arriving Tag Number =  (4)
 
3. Simulations 
The identification efficiency of the proposed protocol is investigated here. The 
performance metrics are introduced first. Moreover, the identification efficiency of m-AFQB 
for various mobility rates is examined. Also, the identification efficiency of AFQB (previous 
version of the protocol without considering the tag mobility) (Lin et al., 2009) and m-AFQB 
(the version presented in this paper which takes the tag mobility into consideration) is 
compared.  
The representation of the electric product code, formulated by EPC Global (EPC Global, 
2005), is adopted for the Tag ID coding. A few assumptions are made here to simplify the 
simulations. In this paper, we only handle tag collisions. That is, the interrogation zones do 
not overlap. We also assume that each reader has unique ID for identification.  
 
3.1 Performance Metrics 
Two metrics of evaluating the performance of the tag anti-collision protocols are the 
identification delay and the communication overhead.  
Yen-Wen Lin, Wei-Ting Syu, Jhih-Siang Wang, Fang-Yu Syu, Cheng-Chi Liang, Guo-Tang Huang, and Jie-Min Shen 
The 2010 International Conference on Innovation and Management, Penang, Malaysia, July 7- 10, 2010. 
 
9
previous version (AFQB) which does not consider the tag mobility. In this experiment, the 
identification efficiency for mobile tags is compared. It is assumed that total tag number (n) is 
set 1000. The performance of three mobility rates for m-AFQB, include 0.1, 0.5, and 0.9; is 
observed.  
As shown in Figure 5, the identification delay (total time slot number) increases as the tag 
number increases. With the m-AFQB, higher mobility rate yields more identification delay 
(total time slot number). For various tag number, the identification delay (total time slot 
number) of the AFQB is larger than that of the m-AFQB. Moreover, as shown in Figure 6, the 
communication overhead (iteration number) increases as the tag number increases. With the 
m-AFQB, higher mobility rate yields more communication overhead (iteration number). And, 
for various tag number, the communication overhead (iteration number) of the AFQB is 
larger than that of the m-AFQB. 
Summary: The m-AFQB outperforms the AFQB in the context of tag mobility.  
Figure 5: Comparing the Identification Delay Figure 6: Comparing the Communication 
Overhead 
 
4. Conclusions 
In this paper, an anti-collision protocol is proposed to promote the identification 
efficiency for mobile tags in RFID systems. The simulation results show that the proposed 
protocol can reduce the identification delay and the communication overhead between the 
reader and tags.  
 
Acknowledgement 
This work was supported in part of by the Taiwan National Science Council under grant 
no. NSC 98-2221-E-142 -002 
 
References 
Banks, J., Hanny, D., Pachano, M. A., and Thompson, L. G. (2007). RFID applied. Hoboken: 
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.  
Deng, X., Rong, M., Liu, T., Yuan, Y., & Yu, D. (2008). Tag count frame slotted Aloha: A 
novel anti-collision protocol in RFID systems. Proceedings of IEEE Vehicular 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用RFID及IPv6實現的無所不在網路系統
計畫主持人: 林嬿雯
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-142-002- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
相關成果發表於國際會議 IAM 2010 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
