  
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
使用都卜勒最大頻率變化的超音波橫向流速偵測 
 Transverse Flow Estimation by Differential Maximum Doppler Frequency 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-011-004 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：沈哲州    國立台灣科技大學電機系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
一般都卜勒技術只能提供軸向的血流
速度，而橫向流速可用都卜勒頻寬法來估
計。傳統的都卜勒頻寬法估計方式需同時
應用到都卜勒偏移頻率和最大都卜勒頻
率，然而都卜勒偏移頻率容易受到樣本區
域內流動變異的影響，而降低估測橫向流
速的正確性。其中，導致正確性下降的兩
個主要原因，一是樣本區域位置偏移，另
一個是樣本區域長度改變，在本文中，我
們使用模擬和實驗的方式來觀察其變化。
結果顯示，位置偏移會造成都卜勒偏移頻
率有低估的情形，最大都卜勒頻率則保持
不變，最後導致都卜勒頻寬會有超估情形
產生。與位置偏移所受到的影響相比，樣
本區域長度變化對橫向流速的估測影響較
小。本論文提出差值最大都卜勒頻率法來
解決位置偏移時所造成的誤差情形。此法
是利用兩個不同聲束寬度的超音波聲束觀
察血液的流動，用相對應的差值最大都卜
勒頻率來估測橫向血流的速度。本論文的
結果證明利用差值最大都卜勒頻率法時，
即使樣本區域位置偏移，橫向流速的估測
依然能保持其正確性與穩定性。 
 
關鍵詞：都卜勒，橫向流速估測，最大都
卜勒頻率，都卜勒頻寬，超音波 
 
Abstract 
 
    Conventional Doppler technique can 
only provide the axial component of the 
blood flow vector, which is actually a 
three-dimensional quantity. To acquire the 
complete flow vector, estimations of the 
other two velocity components are essential. 
For the 2D Doppler-bandwidth-based 
transverse estimation, however, accuracy is 
generally limited because of the complex 
dependence of the Doppler spectral shape on 
the flow variation within the sample volume. 
Two factors that may lead to the Doppler 
spectral change were considered in this study. 
One is the position offset of the sample 
volume and the other is the length of the 
sample volume. Simulations were performed 
and experimental data were also collected. 
Results indicate that the position offset may 
result in sever underestimation of Doppler 
shift frequency. Consequently, Doppler 
bandwidth is overestimated when it is 
determined by the difference between 
Doppler shift frequency and maximum 
Doppler frequency. Compared to the position 
offset, influence of the length of sample 
volume on the Doppler bandwidth is minor. 
To overcome this problem, a novel method 
which is based on the differential maximum 
Doppler frequency is proposed. Specifically, 
two beams with different beam widths are 
simultaneously generated to observe the 
blood flow and the difference between the 
corresponding maximum Doppler 
frequencies is used to estimate the transverse 
velocity. It is demonstrated that the accuracy 
and stability of transverse estimation are 
 bandwidth Bd is inversely proportional to the 
transit time of a scatterer crossing the 
ultrasound beam at the focus of a transducer 
(Censor et al. 1988; Newhouse et al. 1987):  
where W and F represent the aperture size 
and the focal depth of the transducer. Note 
that the term 
W
F⋅λ  is actually the 
ultrasound beam width at focus. This 
phenomenon is also known as the intrinsic 
spectrum broadening effect. Therefore, it is 
possible to calculate the transverse flow 
component given the Doppler bandwidth and 
ultrasound beam width. However, the 
estimated Doppler bandwidth is subject to 
errors because the Doppler spectrum changes 
significantly with imaging parameters, such 
as focusing and sample volume. For example, 
it is obvious that the shape of the Doppler 
spectrum may be altered when the sample 
volume is displaced from its original position 
to observe different blood flows. 
In this research, effects of the Doppler 
spectral change on Doppler bandwidth 
estimation were studied based on the position 
and the geometry of the sample volume. This 
paper is organized as follows. First, 
limitations of conventional transverse flow 
estimation using Doppler bandwidth are 
demonstrated. Then, a novel approach is 
proposed using the difference between the 
maximum Doppler frequencies for two 
simultaneously generated ultrasound beams. 
The proposed approach is validated using 
simulations and experiments. The simulation 
model and experimental setup are described 
in detail, and the results are compared 
between the conventional method and the 
proposed method. Finally, conclusions and 
discussions of this research will be given. 
 
三、理論與方法 
 
都卜勒頻寬法的限制 
Conventionally, the Doppler bandwidth 
is estimated from the difference between the 
Doppler shift frequency and the maximum 
frequency in the Doppler spectrum (Lee et al. 
1999; Tortoli et al. 1995). Hence, the 
estimation of the Doppler bandwidth is very 
dependent on both the maximum Doppler 
frequency and the Doppler shift frequency. It 
has been shown that the maximum Doppler 
frequency relies only on the maximum flow 
velocity passing through the sample volume 
(Tortoli et al. 1995). In other words, the 
maximum Doppler frequency is independent 
of the flow gradient encompassed in the 
sample volume, and hence becoming a 
reliable parameter for flow estimation. In 
practice, the maximum Doppler frequency is 
usually determined by the intersection of the 
Doppler spectra with an empirically 
determined threshold (McCabe et al. 1992). 
In comparison with the maximum Doppler 
frequency, however, the Doppler shift 
frequency is subject to variations because of 
the complex dependence of Doppler spectral 
shape on the flow velocity gradient 
encompassed within the sample volume 
(Hoeks et al. 1991; Law et al. 1991). As a 
result of the unstable nature of the Doppler 
shift frequency, the estimated Doppler 
bandwidth also becomes unreliable when the 
bandwidth is based on the difference between 
the Doppler shift frequency and the 
maximum Doppler frequency. 
The flow velocity gradient included in 
a Doppler measurement is determined by two 
parameters of the sample volume: the first is 
the position of the sample volume within the 
flow vessel and the second is the length of 
the sample volume. Generally, the distance 
between the axis of the vessel and the center 
of the sample volume can be used to measure 
the position of the sample volume. The 
distance is referred to as the position offset in 
this paper. In other words, a sample volume 
is exactly centered on the central line of the 
flow vessel when the position offset is zero. 
Fig. 1(a) shows the sample volumes 
with different position offsets and the typical 
Doppler spectra which correspond to these 
sample volumes. For Sample Volume A, 
whose position offset is zero, the 
fastest-moving flow component is centered 
θλ sin
2 v
F
WBd ⋅⋅= (2) 
 one beam can use the whole array for 
receiving while the other beam utilizes the 
central half of the array for receiving. It is 
noticeable that, for a given transverse 
velocity, the differential maximum Doppler 
frequency increases with the difference in 
aperture sizes for the two beams. Therefore, 
a larger difference in the size of the two 
apertures is favorable in the differential 
maximum Doppler frequency method. 
 
四、結果與討論 
 
Effect of position offset 
The measured Doppler shift 
frequencies for both transducers with the 
position offsets ranging from 0 mm to 1.5 
mm are shown in Fig. 2. The length of 
sample volume is fixed to 7 mm for all 
position offsets. Note that the maximum flow 
velocity in the center of the vessel is still 
encompassed within the sample volume even 
with a 1.5-mm position offset because of the 
long sample volume. The corresponding 
critical angles are 5° and 7° for Transducer 1 
and Transducer 2, respectively. They are 
both sufficiently smaller than the Doppler 
angle in the experiments such that the 
transverse velocity can be estimated 
accurately using Eqn (4). 
First, it is demonstrated in Fig. 2 that 
the Doppler shift frequency for both 
transducers decreases with the position 
offsets. In other words, the dominant signal 
within the sample volume comes from 
slower-moving flows when the sample 
volume is located more distantly from the 
center of the vessel. Second, as expected, the 
Doppler shift frequency for Transducer 2 is 
consistently higher than that for Transducer 1 
for all position offsets because of the higher 
central frequency of Transducer 2. In 
addition, it is noticeable that the decrease of 
Doppler shift frequency is larger for 
Transducer 1 when the position offset 
increases. For example, the Doppler shift 
frequency for Transducer 1 decreases from 
848 Hz to 660 Hz when the position offset 
increases from 0 mm to 1.5 mm. Meanwhile, 
the Doppler shift frequency for Transducer 2 
slightly changes from 908 Hz to 860 Hz. To 
explain the observation, the difference 
between the focal lengths of the two 
transducers should be considered. Since the 
focal length of a transducer is proportional to 
the product of its wavelength and the square 
of its f-number, Transducer 1 has a shorter 
focal length than Transducer 2 does because 
the f-number of Transducer 1 is smaller. In 
other words, the focusing of Transducer 1 is 
relatively stronger than that of Transducer 2. 
In a strongly focused sound beam, the 
intensity within the sample volume is less 
uniform and the contribution from each flow 
velocity to the overall Doppler signal 
changes significantly according to the 
position of the flow within the sample 
volume. On the contrary, Transducer 2 
produces a more uniform intensity 
distribution within the sample volume and 
each flow velocity contributes equally to the 
Doppler estimation. Hence, the contribution 
from slow-moving flow is weighted more in 
Transducer 1 than in Transducer 2 in the 
presence of the position offset. That explains 
why the Doppler shift frequency for 
Transducer 1 decreases faster than that of 
Transducer 2 when both transducers 
experience the same position offset. 
Fig. 3 demonstrates the measured 
maximum Doppler frequency in our 
experiments for different position offsets. 
The maximum Doppler frequency remains 
unchanged because the maximum flow 
velocity in the vessel is included within the 
sample volume for all position offsets. Note 
that the maximum frequency for Transducer 
1 is higher than that for Transducer 2 because 
of the large Doppler bandwidth for 
Transducer 1. In fact, the difference between 
the maximum Doppler frequencies would be 
larger if the two transducers had the same 
central frequency. 
In the conventional approach that 
estimates the Doppler bandwidth using the 
difference between the maximum Doppler 
frequency and the Doppler shift frequency, 
an overestimation of the Doppler bandwidth 
and the corresponding transverse flow is 
 the differential maximum Doppler frequency 
can be a reliable parameter for transverse 
flow estimation when the length of the 
sample volume is large enough to guarantee 
the accuracy of the maximum Doppler 
frequency. 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
 
In this paper, it is demonstrated that the 
transverse flow velocity is subject to 
overestimation in conventional 
Doppler-bandwidth-based methods either 
when the position offset of the sample 
volume is present or when the length of the 
sample volume changes. The overestimation 
is generally more sensitive to the position 
offset than to the length of the sample 
volume. On the contrary to the 
overestimation of the transverse velocity, the 
axial component tends to be underestimated 
because of the decrease of the Doppler shift 
frequency with the position offset. Hence, it 
is usually required that the sample volume 
should be exactly placed in the center of the 
vessel to accurately estimate both the axial 
and transverse flows. In practical situations, 
the requirement is difficult to meet especially 
when the size of the vessel is smaller than the 
sample volume. 
To improve the accuracy and stability 
of transverse flow estimation, a novel 
method based on the differential maximum 
Doppler frequency is proposed. The 
proposed method can be implemented in an 
ultrasound array system with only minor 
modifications. It is shown that the 
differential maximum Doppler frequency can 
be a stable parameter for transverse flow 
estimation as long as the length of the sample 
volume is sufficient to guarantee the 
accuracy of the maximum Doppler frequency. 
In this condition, the differential maximum 
Doppler frequency remains relatively 
constant even in the presence of the position 
offset. In other words, an accurate estimation 
of the transverse flow can be made in 
situations where it is difficult to perform 
precise positioning of the sample volume.  
Besides, the proposed method also 
provides a better solution to detect blood 
flow when the vessel is nearly perpendicular 
to the ultrasound beam. At a large Doppler 
angle, the Doppler shift frequency is close to 
dc because of the low axial velocity. In this 
case, the effect of the wall-thump filtering 
must be considered. Because of the low-pass 
behavior of the wall-thump filter, the 
Doppler shift frequency in the filtered 
Doppler spectrum is usually higher than the 
original one. Hence, the overestimation of 
the axial velocity may result in severe errors 
when the complete flow vector is concerned. 
In the differential maximum Doppler 
frequency method, however, accurate 
transverse estimation is still feasible because 
the maximum Doppler frequency is not 
affected by the wall-thump filtering. After 
the transverse velocity is determined using 
the differential maximum Doppler frequency, 
the corresponding Doppler bandwidth can be 
obtained for either Transducer 1 or 
Transducer 2 based on the geometry of their 
sample volumes. By subtracting half of the 
Doppler bandwidth from the maximum 
Doppler frequency, actual Doppler shift 
frequency can be restored in a wall-thump 
filtered Doppler spectrum.  
 
六、參考文獻 
 
Anderson ME. 1998. Multi-dimensional velocity 
estimation with ultrasound using spatial quadrature. 
IEEE Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control 
45(3):852-861. 
Bohs LN, Friemel BH, Trahey GE. 1995. 
Experimental velocity profiles and volumetric flow 
via two-dimensional speckle tracking. Ultrasound 
Med Biol 21(7):885-98. 
Bohs LN, Gebhart SC, Anderson ME, Geiman BJ, 
Trahey GE. 2001. 2-D motion estimation using two 
parallel receive beams. IEEE Trans Ultrason 
Ferroelectr Freq Control 48(2):392-408. 
Bohs LN, Geiman BJ, Anderson ME, Gebhart SC, 
Trahey GE. 2000. Speckle tracking for 
multi-dimensional flow estimation. Ultrasonics 
38(1-8):369-75. 
Bonnefous O. Measurement of the complete (3D) 
velocity vector of blood flows; 1988. p 795-799. 
Censor D, Newhouse VL, Vontz T, Ortega HV. 1988. 
Theory of ultrasound Doppler-spectra velocimetry 
  
Fig. 3 
 
Fig. 4 
 
Fig. 5 
 
Fig. 6 
 
Fig. 7 
 
Fig. 8 
 
