 I 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：█已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
如摘要所述 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
1. 前言: 
高速公路電子收費以電子自動化取代人工收費為必然之發展趨勢，臺灣區國道高速公路
自遠通電收公司於民國 95 年初正式營運以來已逾五年，對提高收費站通行速率降低尖峰時
段之車輛壅塞、及電子帳務取代傳統人工處理之效率提昇等貢獻實不可磨滅。當前世界上主
要之高速公路電子收費系統依其通訊媒介可概分為微波(microwave, 5.8 GHz, 2.4 GHz, 900 
MHz)及近紅外線(near infrared, 800-950nm)兩大類。以短距離傳輸訊號之目的及功能而言，
此兩系統之優劣難分軒轅。但與微波系統相較，紅外線系統俱有技術門檻較低及價格低廉之
優勢，故頗獲重視。再依複雜度分類，則高速公路電子收費目前可分為單車道主線收費 
(single lane)及多車道自由車流(multilane free flow)兩種。單車道主線收費系統之特徵為，車
道與車道間以分隔島區隔，強迫車輛駛入收費系統之通訊區域，進行通訊。由於車道間以分
隔島區隔，車速無法提高，對提高行車速率之助益仍屬有限。而多車道自由車流系統由於無
分隔島之區隔，對提高行車速率之助益最大，但紅外線多車道自由車流系統亦存在下列亟待
提昇之技術瓶頸: 
(1) 車輛通過收費通訊區時可維持高速前進，因行車速度甚高，故通訊時間極短，但通訊資
料量龐大，亟需延長車行方向(縱向)通訊範圍之長度以提供充足之通訊時間。 
(2) 車輛擋風玻璃及隔熱紙對紅外線訊號之衰減，使前項問題益發嚴重。 
(3) 車輛可能於通訊過程中變換車道，必頇使因車道變換而中斷之通訊由鄰接車道完整銜
接。 
(4) 由於無分隔島區隔，左右相鄰車道之訊號易相互干擾，為降低干擾，橫向之訊號發送不
宜過廣，以恰好含蓋單一車道為最佳。 
以上諸議題之共通解決方式取決於完好之通訊範圍設計，本研究主要係針對前述問題尋求解
決之道。 
2. 研究方法及過程 
圖一為多車道自由車流之高速公路電子收費系統架構示意圖，通常車道通訊單元(road- 
side unit, RSU)架設於車道中心線上方離地面約 6 m 處，而車上通訊單元(on-board unit, OBU)
則裝設於車內擋風玻璃下方。如圖所示，車道通訊單元之安裝俯角為，車上通訊單元之安
裝仰角為。車道通訊單元與車上通訊單元間之垂直距離   視車上通訊單元之安裝高度而定。
一般而言，小型車之車上通訊單元與車道通訊單元間之垂直距離約為     m，而大型拖車
由於駕駛座較高，其車上通訊單元與車道通訊單元間之垂直距離則約為     m。若車輛變
換車道，或偏離中心線行駛，則車輛與車道通訊單元之垂直面(亦即車道中心線)間存在一橫
向距離  。 
2.1. 物理模式概述 
於文獻[1]中本研究團隊已成功建立一物理模式，用於計算當車輛與車道系統通訊時，於
不同車道通訊單元安裝俯角，不同車上通訊單元安裝仰角，以及不同垂直距離   狀況下，
系統接收訊號強度隨車輛位置 之關係如下列方程式 
     
                   
  
                                       
 3 
 
衰減存在時，如此之系統其通訊長度將受影響，亦即隨著衰減增強，通訊長度將縮短。若如
圖中之粗虛線所示，當車輛進入通訊範圍，從開始至離開，無論處於任何位置，系統之接收
訊號強度均相同。倘能如此，則當衰減存在時，於一定之衰減範圍內，訊號之衰減不會造成
通訊範圍之縮短，本研究主要目的之一即為設計發射模組使系統之接收訊號強度能達到(接
近)此理想狀況。從公式(1)可看出，於固定接收場形             情況下，解決方法在於
調整紅外線發射模組之幅射場形          以彌補式中之    
  項，亦即補償訊號強度隨距離
增加之減弱。 
2.3. 主要困難概述 
眾所週知，微波系統非常不容易達成近乎長矩型通訊範圍之要求，其困難在於天線設計
及製造。直覺上，相較於微波系統，紅外線系統之困難度似乎較低，僅需利用數顆半衰角適
合之發光二極體，以適當之數量及排列角度即不難設計出近乎長橢圓型，左右相臨車道通訊
範圍銜接平整之系統[2]。然而，本研究團隊於執行貴會補助本案之第一年期間時 (97.08 至
98.07，高速公路電子收費紅外線短距通訊系統性能提昇，NSC 98-2221-E- 129-001)量測發現
絕大部分市售紅外線發光二極體之幅射場形均不平整而不適用於高速公路電子收費系統，本
議題除簡略陳述於本團隊先前之結案報告外[7][8]，已於文獻[2]-[6]中說明，其中文獻[4]更特
別針對此一問題進行探討並提供量測結果。 
根據分析及量測，為達到多車道自由車流之需求，理想之發光二極體幅射場形半衰角應
為     左右 (        )，但半衰角為     之市售紅外線發光二極體，依敝人研究小組迄今
所能蒐集者而言，其幅射場形均於中央幅射方向存在一嚴重之凹陷如圖四。圖四之(a)及(b)
為本團隊針對某一國際著名製造商所生產，編號 TSFF5200 之量測結果，廠商所提供之幅射
場形半衰角數據為        。結果顯示，雖然廠商所提供之幅射場形半衰角數據與實際相
去不遠，但中央幅射方向明顯之凹陷則遠超過預期。除此之外，甚多紅外線發光二極體幅射
場形量測結果與廠商所提供之數據差異極大[4]。 
本團隊認為，此種中央凹陷為半衰角         二極體普遍存在之幅射場形缺陷[9]，
於無其他更適合之紅外線發光二極體狀況下，亦即無法獲得幅射場形平滑度及半衰角均符合
要求之發光二極體，由於此類紅外線發光二極體價格極為低廉，若能針對此類發光二極體尋
圖三 : 傳統(粗實線)及理想(粗虛線)之系統接收訊號能量強度與車輛行進距離之關係 
 5 
 
                 
                                                 
式中之 i為所需要cosn函數之數目，視場形不平滑程度及所需精確度而定，    則為強度常數，
調整    及    之值即可獲得不平滑場形數學表示之近似值，用以代入公式(1)以進行後續計算
分析，此部分之詳細步驟可參照文獻[1] -[6]及[9]。 
至於圖四(a)及(b)所示之 TSFF5200 紅外線發光二極體幅射場形則可表示為 
                     
              
                                            
圖四(c)即為利用方程式(3)計算所得之結果，比較圖四(c)與圖四之(a)及(b)可看出，計算所得
與量測所得頗為接近。為更進一步剖析，圖四(d)為延 TSFF5200 紅外線發光二極體某一特定
方向(      )量測所得與利用方程式(3)之計算結果比較。從圖四所提供之所有資訊可瞭解，
圖五: 二維立體幅射場形量測雙軸機械結構 
 7 
 
 
(b) (a) 
圖六: Module V、Module VI、Module VII、及 Module VIII 之系統接收訊號強度及
訊號強度等高線圖 
(d) (c) 
 9 
 
Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 12, pp. 152-163, March 2011。 
(4) 論文[5]及論文[6]之內容大略為前述三篇論文之先導工作，以中文發表於國內研討會。 
(5) 論文[9]敘述利用廉價、幅射場形平滑度不佳之紅外線發光二極體 TSFF5200，以優化演
算法尋找各組成二極體之安裝角度，降低不平滑幅射場形之影響，使系統達到最佳性能。
分析設計結果發表於 2011 IEEE International Conference on Vehicular Electronics and 
Safety (ICVES11)，本團隊現正進行後續相關實驗量測工作。 
以上詳細內容均請參閱各論文。 
5. 經費支用 
本案本年度蒙貴會補助新臺幣150,000.--元研究設備費及雜項費用新臺幣100,000. --元，
其中大部分用於購置精密光學旋轉台兩具及控制儀、訊號擷取器、紅外線量測所需相關零組
件、以及野外量測所需之筆記型電腦一台等。所有經費包含其餘研究人力費(新臺幣 264,000.--
元)、國外差旅費(新臺幣 60,000.--元)、及管理費(新臺幣 31,000.--元)等之詳細使用情形詳如
本案結案相關資料。 
6. 研究成果 
(1) 本案最主要具體研究成果為文末參考文獻所列之[2]至[6]及[9]計六篇論文，其中前三篇為
SCI 重要國際期刊論文。 
(2) 經由本案之執行，相關成果例如紅外線發射模組之設計結果及相關量測技術及數據(紅外
線幅射場形量測、系統訊號強度及通訊範圍之量測)可供相關研發機構及人員參考。 
(3) 人員訓練 : 本案除主持人及共同主持人外，先後計十餘位碩士班研究生及大學部學生參
與，參與人員獲得之相關訓練亦為重要成果。 
7. 計畫成果自評 
本案之執行雖不敢言成果斐然，但以本校之人力、物力、及財力，執行期間相關成果累
計三篇論文發表於國際著名期刊(IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems)，且
影響係數(impact factor)頗高(2.0 以上)，可言豐碩。另現有成果已可供營運商參考以提昇其
系統性能。 
8. 結論 
微波及紅外線為當今電子收費系統之兩主要訊號傳輸媒介，與微波系統相較，紅外線系
統俱有技術門檻較低及價格低廉之優勢，深俱持續發展之價值。經本案之執行，相關問題正
逐步釐清及解決。本計畫本年(99.08 至 100.07)及近三年(97.08 至 100.07)之執行情況及成果
已如前述，除將繼續進行後續未完成之工作外，亦規劃將本團隊近年從事本研究(紅外線高
速公路電子收費系統)所累積之經驗應用於研發紅外線短距車與車通訊系統。 
9. 參考文獻 
[1]  Wern-Yarng Shieh, Wei-Hsun Lee, Shen-Lung Tung, Bor-Shenn Jenn, and Cheng-Hsin 
Liu, ”Analysis of the Optimum Configuration of Roadside Units and Onboard Units in 
Dedicated Short-Range Communication Systems”, IEEE Trans. Intell. Transport. Syst., vol. 7, 
pp. 565-571, Dec. 2006. (SCI, Impact factor: 1.434) 
[2]  Wern-Yarng Shieh, Ti-Ho Wang, Yen-Hsih Chou, and Chi-Chang Huang, ”Design of the 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫國外公差(出席國際學術會議)報告 
日期： 100 年 7 月 24 日 
 
                                
一、參加會議經過 
國際電子電機學會(IEEE)運輸載具電子與安全國際研討會(IEEE International Conference 
on Vehicular Electronics and Safety)之目的主要為探討如何將電子與通訊技術應用於運輸載具
及如何提昇運輸載具(交通)安全與效率，係由國際電子電機學會之次級組織智慧型運輸系統
協會(IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Society)所策劃支持，並由世界各大城市機構爭取
主辦。本(2011)年由中國國家科學院之自動研究所(Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences)主持，於大陸北京之友誼賓館(Beijin Friendship Hotel)舉行，議程自 7 月 10 日至 7
月 12 日為期 3 天。會議主題可概分為 
(1) Active and passive safety systems 
(2) Vehicle/engine control 
(3) Sensor network 
(4) Vehicle testing and measurement technology 
(5) Telematics 
(6) Pattern recognition for vehicles 
(7) Driver assistance driving systems 
(8) Vehicle control and monitoring 
(9) Virtual/digital system and human machine interaction 
此外，大會亦安排專題演講(Special session)，主題為「Global perspectives of active safety systems 
research and development」，由大會邀請三位著名學者與業界翹楚進行專題報告。敝人之論文
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221-E-129-007 
計畫名稱 高速公路電子收費紅外線短距通訊系統性能提昇(III) 
出國人員姓
名 
謝文揚 
服務機構
及職稱 
聖約翰科技大學電腦與通訊工程系 
教授 
會議時間 
100 年 7 月 10 日 
至 
100 年 7 月 12 日 
會議地點 中國大陸北京 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011 年國際電子電機學會運輸載具電子與安全國際研討會 
(英文) 2011 IEEE International Conference on Vehicular Electronics and 
Safety 
發表論文題
目 
(中文) 利用不平滑幅射場形之發光二極體設計高速公路電子收費系統 
(英文)  Design of Infrared Electronic-Toll-Collection Systems with LEDs with 
Irregular Radiation Pattern 
 3 
60 篇。 
六、其他 
無。 
Design of Infrared Electronic-Toll-Collection
Systems with LEDs with Irregular Radiation Pattern
Wern-Yarng Shieh, Ti-Ho Wang, Hsien-Feng Lin, Jie-Yuan Chang, and Che-Hung Lin
Abstract—Infrared light emitting diods (LEDs) with a half-
intensity angle Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦ are suitable for electronic-toll-
collection (ETC) applications due to the requirement of a definite
communication area between the on-board unit (OBU) and
the road side unit (RSU). However, the radiation pattern of
most low-cost commercial infrared LEDs are irregular to some
extent leading to the difficulty to construct an infrared ETC
system with a proper communication area. According to our
measurements, most low-cost infrared LEDs with a half-intensity
angle Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦ have a common irregularity in their radiation
pattern—a notch in the central direction. The unwanted influence
of such irregularities can be reduced by a proper array of
the constituent LEDs in the emitter. To analyze the system
performance, the irregularity can be approximated by a linear
combination of cosinn functions. In this paper, we present some
successful designs with the aid of an optimization algorithm to
adjust the mounting angle of each component LED. In spite of
the aforementioned irregularity, with our design the system can
still have good performance in terms of the ability to withstand
high signal attenuation and an extended communication area in
the vehicle-traveling direction.
Index Terms—dedicated short-range communication (DSRC),
electronic toll collection (ETC), infrared communication, intelli-
gent transportation system (ITS).
I. INTRODUCTION
To carry out electronic toll collection (ETC) on a highway,
for the data transmission between an onboard unit (OBU) and
a roadside unit (RSU), infrared systems have the advantage
of low cost and simple technique compared to 900-MHz, 2.4-
GHz, and 5.8-GHz microwave systems. For ETC systems, an
extended communication range in the longitudinal direction,
i.e., in the direction of vehicle traveling, is required to provide
a sufficient communication time interval to allow for complete
transfer of all the information between the OBU and the RSU
while the vehicles are traveling rapidly through the communi-
cation region. On the other hand, in order to save power and
avoid mutual interference between contiguous traffic lanes, an
excess spread of signal power in the lateral direction is to be
avoided.
The communication area of an infrared ETC system strongly
depends on the radiation pattern of its emitter, which is
generally composed of several light emitting diodes (LEDs).
The radiation pattern of the infrared emitter can be properly
designed by using appropriate LEDs and adjusting the mount-
ing angle of each constituent LED [1]–[4]. Because there
are a great number of commercial LEDs with various half-
intensity angles, intuitively it should be not difficult to tailor
the radiation pattern of infrared emitters. However, the solution
is not so straightforward due to the irregular radiation pattern
existing in many commercial LEDs which we recently noted
from our measurements [2], [4].
To achieve a definite communication area between the OBU
and the RSU, there are two requirements for the radiation
pattern of the component LEDs: (a) a suitable half-intensity
angle and (b) the smoothness of the radiation pattern. Ac-
cording to our previous study, LEDs with a half-intensity
angle near 10◦, i.e., Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦, are beneficial for ETC
applications, mainly because the emitter fabricated with such
LEDs will not emit too much energy into undesired lateral
directions and under a proper design the communication area
will roughly cover the whole traffic lane with relatively smooth
communication boundaries if the radiation pattern of such
LEDs is smooth enough [2], [3]. However, unfortunately, ac-
cording to our measurements there are several typical types of
radiation-pattern irregularity existing in low-cost commercial
LEDs, each type affect the system performance to various
extent [4]. Particularly, for the LEDs with a half-intensity
angle Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦ our measured results show that there is a
common radiation-pattern irregularity—a notch in the central
radiant direction, and from diode to diode the depth of the
notch varies from 15% to 25%. Because till now we cannot
find LEDs with a half-intensity angle Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦ whose
radiation pattern is smooth enough for ETC applications, we
believe that such a notch in the central radiant direction is
a very common radiation-pattern irregularity for those low-
cost commercial LEDs. Therefore, partly because of the cost
consideration, we intend to utilize such ’defective’ LEDs to
fabricate the emitter. Although the radiation pattern of each
individual LED is irregular, however, with a deliberate design
one can still obtain a proper system. In this paper we will
present our successful work which was achived by the aid
of an optimization algorithm with the idea of LED array to
reduce the influence of such radiation-pttern irregularity on the
system performance.
II. THE IRREGULAR RADIATION PATTERN OF THE LED
AND ITS APPROXIMATION
As mentioned previously, according to our measure-
ments [2], [4], most low-cost commercial infrared LEDs with
a half-intensity angle Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦ have a common irregular
radiation pattern—a notch in the central direction. Figure 1
shows one of our measured results for a typical low-cost
infrared LED (TSFF5200) manufactured by a world well-
known company, its related specification can be found in
the manufacturer’s data sheet [5]. Following the conventional
definition of the spherical-polar coordinates, in this figure θ′
124978-1-4577-0577-9/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE
Fig. 4. Typical mounting configuration of ETC systems.
RSU relative to the horizontal plane of the OBU. An OBU
(vehicle) travels through the communication area with a lateral
distance x relative to the vertical plane (yz plane) above the
central line of the traffic lane. To facilitate the discussion, we
set the coordinates of the RSU as (0, 0, h), and the OBU
(vehicle) traveling in the y-direction on the xy plane has the
coordinates (x, L, 0), where L is the longitudinal distance of
the OBU relative to the verticle plane (xz plane) of the RSU.
In current ETC systems, the RSU is generally mounted
about 5.5 m above the ground. Hence for small cars the value
of the vertical height of the RSU relative to the horizontal
plane of the OBU is h ∼= 5.0 m, while for big trucks h ∼= 3.5 m,
indicating that h can range from 3.5 m to 5.0 m. In this paper
we consider only the worst case of small cars [1], [3], i.e.,
the case of h = 5.0 m, and the common mounting angles of
α = 45◦, β = 45◦.
A. Brief Review of the Physical Model
By using a technique called arbitrary scale [1], the nor-
malized signal strength received by the RSU from the OBU
emision can be described by
Sn =
1000
9
1
m
[
m∑
i=1
4.6 U5200 (θ1i)
]
cos θ2
r2
, (2)
wherein r is the distance between the OBU and the ESU,
cos θ2 is the receiving pattern of the RSU, θ2 is the angle
between the normal to the RSU and the line connecting the
OBU and the RSU, θ1i is the angle between the symmetric
axis of each corresponding LED and the line connecting the
LED (OBU) and the RSU, and the summation is over all the
LEDs consisting the emitter whose number is m, this value
also appears in the denominator to make the output power of
the emitter independent of the number of constituent LEDs.
In addition, for the convenience of comparision we utilize
some parameters, in (2), the constant 4.6 is used to adjust the
output power of this LED such that under the same operating
TABLE I
RESULTS OF AN OPTIMIZATION ALGORITHM FOR FINDING THE OPTIMUM
MOUNTING ANGLES OF THE LEDS IN AN OBU EMITTER
Module V Module VI Module VII Module VIII
1 −18.25◦ −19.5◦ −19.0◦ −19.5◦
2 −13.75◦ −17.0◦ −16.5◦ −17.0◦
3 2.25◦ −12.5◦ −12.0◦ −12.5◦
4 2.25◦ 4.5◦ 4.5◦ 5.0◦
5 6.75◦ 9.0◦ 8.0◦ 8.5◦
6 12.75◦ 11◦ 13.5◦ 12.0◦
7 12.75◦ 11◦ 13.5◦ 12.0◦
8 12.75◦ 19.0◦ 13.5◦ 12.0◦
9 17.25◦ 19.0◦ 23.5◦ —
10 17.25◦ 19.0◦ 23.5◦ —
11 — — 23.5◦ —
12 — — 23.5◦ —
conditions its output power will have the same value as
others which have different radiation patterns, and the constant
1000/9 is based on the arbitrary-scale technique, which leads
to the result that when Sn > 1 the data transmission is
successful, otherwise it fails. The details of all these can be
found in our previous works [1]–[4].
B. Design of the Emitter
We have tried to use different number of TSFF5200 LED
to construct the emitter. With the aid of an optimization
algorithm to find the mounting angle of each component
LED along the longitudinal direction relative to the normal
of the emitter (OBU) such that the system has an extended
communication area in the direction of vehicle traveling and
is able to withstand high signal attenuation we obtained several
possibilities as listed in Table I. We call them Module V,
Module VI, Module VII, and Module VIII, respectively, to
compare our previous designs [2]–[4]. We utilized ten LEDs
to design Module V and Module VI, twelve for Module VII,
and eight for Module VIII. Figure 5 shows the calculated
radiation patterns of these four emitters along the longitudinal
direction, i.e., along the direction φ′ = 0◦ and φ′ = ±180◦.
Obviously, all of them have a relatively smooth curve. This
meams that with an appropriate array the notch in the pattern
of the TSFF5200 LED can be compensated by the peaks of
other LEDs in the emitter.
Figure 6 shows the measured and the calculated three-
dimensional radiation pattern of Module V, because the mea-
sured pattern is roughly symmetric, we only present one half
of it for the purpose of clearity. The results are in quite good
agreement despite the fact that the measured pattern is not
very smooth due to the individual irregularity of the pattern
of each component LED. This means that with the simple
approximation (1) we can still obtain the main characteristics
of the TSFF5200 LED.
IV. SYSTEM PERFORMANCE
The normalized signal strength received by the RSU from
the OBU emission as a function of the traveling distance L
of the OBU (vehicle) under the single-lane condition, i.e.,
x = 0.0 m, 0 attenuation, for α = 45◦, β = 45◦, and
h = 5.0 m, using Module V, Module VI, Module VII, and
126
(a)
(b)
Fig. 8. Calculated results of (a) the three-dimensional plot of the normalized
signal strength Sn (the signal-strength threshold normalized to 1) received by
the RSU from the OBU emission for α = 45◦, β = 45◦, and h = 5.0m,
with the OBU emitter using Module V, and (b) the contours of Sn.
The equalization of the value of the received signal strength
in the communication area has the advantage of keeping the
communication length, i.e., the communication time interval,
between the OBU and the RSU independent of the signal at-
tenuation while the vehicle travels through the communicaton
area, this is crucial for large amount of data transmission in
ETC applications [2]. For this issue, we present three designs
in this paper: Module VI, Module VII, and Module VIII, with
10, 12, and 8 LEDs respectively. As shown in Fig. 7, for
the emitter with more LEDs the communication range in the
longitudinal direction is longer, however, its maximun received
signal strength in the communication area is lower. Notice
also that all the results caculated in this paper are obtained
by assuming that all the emitters emit the same total radiant
power. Therefore, Module VIII, with eight LEDs, is better able
to withstand high signal attenuation, while Module VII, with
twelve LEDs, can provide longer communication length under
the condition of low signal attenuation.
Figures 8 (a), 9 (a) 10 (a), and 11 (a) show the three-
dimensional plot of the calculated normalized signal strength
Sn (the signal-strength threshold normalized to 1) received by
the RSU from the OBU emission for α = 45◦, β = 45◦, and
(a)
(b)
Fig. 9. Calculated results of (a) the three-dimensional plot of the normalized
signal strength Sn (the signal-strength threshold normalized to 1) received by
the RSU from the OBU emission for α = 45◦, β = 45◦, and h = 5.0m,
with the OBU emitter using Module VI, and (b) the contours of Sn.
h = 5.0 m, with the OBU emitter using Module V, Module VI,
Module VII, and Module VIII, respectively, their signal-
strength contours are sketched in the corresponding Figs. (b).
These figures more clearly display the system performance of
the emitters.
In passing, we have just finished these designs. As in
our previous works [2]–[4], we are currently performing the
measurement with abovementioned four emitting modules,
respectively, as the OBU emitter to further prove our designs,
i.e., to prove the results shown in Figs. 8-11. We believe that
the measured results will support our analyses and will be
presented in a subsequent paper.
V. CONCLUSIONS
Infrared LEDs with a half-intensity angle Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦ are
suitable for ETC applications due to the requirement of a
definit communication area between the OBU and the RSU.
However, the radiation pattern of most low-cost commercial
infrared LEDs are irregular to some extent leading to the
difficulty of the design. According to our measurements, most
low-cost commercial infrared LEDs with a half-intensity angle
Φ1/2 ≈ 10◦ have a commen irregularity—a notch in the
central direction. In spite of this irregularity, systems with
128
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高速公路電子收費紅外線短距通訊系統性能提昇(III)
計畫主持人: 謝文揚
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-129-007- 學門領域: 光電其他 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 紅外線發射模組通訊範圍設計(高速公路電子收費紅外線短距通訊系統性能提昇)
(英文) Design of Infrared Emitter for Electronic-Toll-Collection Applications 
成果歸屬機構
聖約翰科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
謝文揚
技術說明
(中文) 本研究團隊成功建立一物理模式，用於計算當車輛與車道系統通訊時，於不同車
道通訊單元(road-side unit, RSU)安裝俯角，不同車上通訊單元(on-board 
unit, OBU)安裝仰角，以及不同垂直距離狀況下，系統接收訊號強度隨車輛位置
之關係。本團隊量測發現絕大部分市售紅外線發光二極體之幅射場形(radiation 
pattern)均不平整而不適用於高速公路電子收費，但仍可使用廉價，幅射場形半
衰角適合之紅外線發光二極體建構發射模組，即便其幅射場形平滑度不佳甚至存
在嚴重岐嶇。方法為利用優化演算法(optimization algorithm)調整各發光二極
體之安裝角度，計算系統接收訊號強度，分析系統性能使之達到最佳狀況，最終
目標為設計一通訊範圍足夠，同時能夠抗衡訊號衰減之系統。
(英文) unavailable
產業別 運輸工具製造業；光學及精密器械製造業；陸上運輸業；電信業
技術/產品應用範圍 紅外線通訊、高速公路電子收費
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
提昇紅外線通訊系統或高速公路電子收費系統之性能
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
