 2
such as high order plate theory, and systems 
involving the coupling of a set of second order 
elliptic equations, such as a multilayered 
aquifer system, or a multiple porosity system. 
These coupled systems can be reduced to a 
single partial differential equation by using the 
Hörmander operator decomposition technique. 
 The resultant partial differential equations 
usually involve the polyharmonic or the 
products of Helmholtz operators. When 
boundary-type numerical methods are applied 
to solve these problems, we require the 
particular solutions for the polyharmonic and 
the products of Helmholtz partial differential 
operators with polyharmonic splines and 
monomials right hand side. Hence it is 
important to fill this gap in the application of 
boundary methods to these engineering 
problems.  
 Also, we will combine the derived 
analytical particular solutions with several 
boundary-type numerical methods, such as the 
boundary element method, the method of 
fundamental solutions, and the Trefftz method. 
Furthermore, we will carry out some 
computational implementations and compare 
the results to the analytical solutions or the 
examples in literature. If possible, we will also 
apply the derived theory to some practical 
problems. Moreover, the results of the present 
project will be published in international 
journals. 
 
Keywords: Particular solution, polyharmonic 
equation, product of Helmholtz equation, 
boundary element method, dual reciprocity 
boundary element method, method of 
fundamental solutions, Trefftz method, radial 
basis function 
 
二、研究目的與文獻探討 
 After more than two decades of 
development, boundary type numerical 
methods [1] have evolved as a viable numerical 
technique for solving PDEs. One of the 
attractiveness of the methods is the spacious 
dimension of discritizing the physical domain 
can be reduced by one. However, for 3D case, 
it is still a no trivial task for discritizing the 3D 
surface. These methods include the boundary 
element method (BEM), the method of 
fundamental solutions (MFS) and Trefftz 
methods (TM). A common feature of above so 
called boundary methods is the fundamental 
solution or basis of a given linear differential 
operator is known for solving homogeneous 
equations. Furthermore, the particular solutions 
are required for solving inhomogeneous 
equation. In large measure, if the fundamental 
solution and particular solution of a given 
partial differential equation are both available, 
the problem can be solved effortless. The real 
challenge for solving an inhomogeneous partial 
differential equation lies on how to efficiently 
and accurately evaluate approximate particular 
solutions. However, despite all the effort during 
the past decade [1], particular solutions are 
available for only a much smaller class of 
differential operators such as Laplacian, 
Bi-harmonic, Helmholtz-type operators.   
 The method of particular solution (MPS) 
[2] provides a way to nicely transfer the 
inhomogeneous term to boundary. For the 
BEM, the dual reciprocity boundary element 
method (DRBEM) [3] has been widely 
circulated in the BEM community. However, 
the dual reciprocity procedure is equivalent to 
the method of particular solution [4]. The key 
to the success of the method of particular 
solution is the availability of the close-form 
particular solutions for certain basis functions 
such as the polyharmonic splines and the 
Chebyshev polynomials. In the application of 
the MPS, we approximate the right hand side 
function as a summation of basis function. 
Then, the particular solution can be 
approximated by the corresponding series of 
the close-form particular solutions.  
 Hence, the success of the method of 
particular solution is depended on the 
availability of the exact particular solution  
associated to the basis function and the 
particular differential operator .There has been 
a significant amount of work devoted to the 
derivation of the particular solutions. This 
includes the Laplace, the polyharmonic (which 
includes biharmonic), the Helmholtz (which 
include the modified Helmholtz), the product 
of Helmholtz, and the elasticity (Navier) 
operators. The basis functions investigated 
include the monomials, the Chebyshev 
polynomials, the trigonometric functions 
 4
此外，在本計畫支持下，另外有以下三
篇 SCI 期刊刊出或接受。 
 
1. C.C. Tsai,The Particular Solutions of 
Chebyshev Polynomials for Reissner Plates 
under Arbitrary Loadings, CMES, vol.1246, 
no.1, pp.1-23, 2009 
2. C.C. Tsai, Tai-Wen Hsu, The method of 
fundamental solutions for oscillatory and 
porous buoyant flows, Computers and Fluids 
(tentatively accepted) 
3. C.C. Tsai, Tai-Wen Hsu, A meshless 
numerical method for solving slow 
mixed convections in containers with 
discontinuous boundary data, International 
Journal for Numerical Methods in Fluids 
(tentatively accepted) 
 
另外，也參加兩次國際研討會，報告與
本計劃相關之結果： 
1. C.C. Tsai, “A Comparison of Two 
Semi-analytical Methods for Solving Slow 
Mixed Convections”, Third International 
Conference on Scientific Computing and 
Partial Differential Equations, Baptist 
University, Hong Kong, Dec 7-13, 2008. 
2. C.C. Tsai, “The Particular Solutions of 
Chebyshev Polynomials for Reissner Plates 
under Arbitrary Loadings”, International 
Conference on Computational & Experimental 
Engineering & Science, Phuket, Thailand, 
April 8-11, 2009. 
 
由以上數篇文章之研究結果，吾人已經
能推導多項諧和及多項赫姆霍茲偏微分方程
式之特解。 
 
四、參考文獻 
1. Cheng AH-D, Cheng DT. (2005) Heritage 
and early history of the boundary element 
method, Engng Anal Bound Elem, 29:268–302.  
2. Golberg MA. (1995) The method of 
fundamental solutions for Poisson's equation. 
Engng Anal Bound Elem, 16:205–213. 
3. Partridge PW, Brebbia CA, Wrobel LC. 
(1992) The Dual Reciprocity Boundary 
Element Method, CMP/Elsevier. 
4. Cheng AH-D, Lafe O, Grilli S. (1994) Dual 
reciprocity BEM based on global interpolation 
function functions. Engng Anal Bound Elem, 
13:303–311. 
5. Cheng AH-D. (2000) Particular solutions of 
Laplacian, Helmholtz-type, and polyharmonic 
operators involving higher order radial basis 
functions. Engng Anal Bound Elem, 
24:531–538. 
6. Li X, Chen CS. (2004) A mesh-free method 
using hyperinterpolation and fast Fourier 
transform for solving differential equation. 
Engng Anal Bound Elem, 28:1253–1260. 
7. Cheng AH-D, Morohunfola OK. (1993) 
Multilayered leaky aquifer systems: I. Pumping 
well solution. Water Resour Res, 
29:2787–2800. 
8. Cheng AH-D, Morohunfola OK. (1993) 
Multilayered leaky aquifer systems: II. 
Boundary element solution.  Water Resour 
Res, 29:2801–2811. 
9. Cheng AH-D. (2000) Multilayered Aquifer 
Systems—Fundamentals and Applications. 
Marcel Dekker, New York/Basel, 384 p. 
10. Hörmander H. (1963) Linear Partial 
Differential Operators. Springer-Verlag, Berlin. 
 
