Digital Authentication and Verification in MPEG-4 Fine-
granular Scalability Video Using Bit-Plane
Watermarking
Chun-Ching Wang
Electrical Engineering
Department,
National Changhua
University of Education,
Changhua,Taiwan
*Yih-Chuan Lin
Computer Science and
Information Engineering
Department,
National Formosa
University, Yun-Lin,
Taiwan
Shu-Chung Yi
Graduate Institute of
Integrated Circuit
Design
National Changhua
University of Education,
Changhua,Taiwan
Po-Yu Chen
Electrical Engineering
Department,
National Changhua
University of Education,
Changhua,Taiwan
Abstract-This paper proposes a content authentication
scheme for MPEG-4 FGS (fine-granular scalability) video
based on digital fragile watermarking using Bitplane-
Coding Watermarking (BCW). In embedding procedure, the
watermark information is embedded into every 8×8 block of
residual bit-planes in the enhancement layer while
encoding to MPEG-4 FGS video stream. The watermark bit
is modulated by modifying a specified bit in each 88 bit-
plane such that the even/odd value of the total number of
“1” bits can meet the corresponding watermark
information. In extracting procedure, the embedded signal
can be detected from each block of residual bit-planes by
judging the total number of“1”bits in the block is even or
odd. The detected signal is used to localize errors and
claim ownership of the video content by decoding it to
copyrights information. It is worth mention that we use run-
length coding steps to select the optimal position for
embedding watermark information in order to increase the
coding efficiency. Experimental results are presented
validating the effectiveness of the proposed approach. It is
found that our proposed method needs no complicated
computation. Furthermore, we found that the compression
ratio is increasing due to the selection of optimal position
for imposing the watermark.
Keywords: MPEG-4, FGS, content authentication, digital
watermarking, bit-plane.
1 Introduction
Digital watermarking [1-6] is a scheme for embedding
watermarking information into multimedia, which can be
later extracted for a variety of purposes including
identification and/or authentication purposes. This issue is
becoming increasingly important due to the proliferation of
multimedia contents on the Internet and in electronic
commerce. The watermarking technique can be either
fragile [1-3] or robust watermarking [4-6] relying on the
desire of the application. The fragile watermarking scheme
can detect any modification made to the multimedia and
indicate the specific locations that have been modified. Any
modification would be resulted in a corresponding error in
the watermark. If the content was not watermarked, or if the
watermarked content is lost, the watermark extraction
algorithm will reflect the multimedia that resembles random
noise.The robust watermarking is verifying the validity of
copyright by detecting watermark. The watermarking should
satisfy at least two conditions such as the transparency and
robustness to protect copyrights of multimedia data. The
watermark signal should cause minimal degradation of the
host data in order to be imperceptible, and it should be
robust against various kinds of manipulations or corruptions
for the multimedia data.
The newly adopted MPEG-4 fine granularity
scalability (FGS) video coding standard [7-10] has received
tremendous attentions because it has ability to adapt to the
network bandwidth variation. MPEG-4 FGS encodes video
sequences into two bit streams: a non-scalable motion-
compensated base layer and a fine-granular-scalable
enhancement layer. The base layer is a video sequence at
the lower bound of a bit-rate range. The enhancement layer
encodes the difference between the reconstructed sequence
and the original sequence from the base layer in a scalable
manner to offer a range of bit rates for the sequence.
However, it is fairy easy to modify the video stream
captured by the video camera, e.g. mask out of specific
event or person, a system for proving authenticity and
integrity of video streams is needed. This paper presents
such a system based on digital signatures embedded in the
video stream. Our concept provides a method for proving
authenticity and integrity of MPEG-4 FGS digital video
streams. In addition, the watermarked MPEG-4 FGS stream
can be played by the ordinary MPEG-4 FGS decoder,
because this scheme does not violate MPEG-4 FGS
encoding standards. For more detailed information can
refer [7-10]
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section
2 briefly reviews the basic concepts of watermarking and
run-length sequences are (8, 0), (32, 0), (10, 1). In Fig 2(a),
the 2nd “1”bit is chosen to be changed as ‘0”based on the
run-length-coding, hence the recalculated (RUN, EOP) are
(8, 0), (32, 0), (10, 1), which is the optimal run-length
coding after modifying watermarking bit. Therefore, the
high compression rate can be achieved by run-length-coding
algorithm. Fig 2(b) shows the block data after embedding
watermark.
3.3 MPEG-4 FGS decoder with information
extracting scheme
Fig 3 illustrates the schematic diagram for extracting
watermark. If E(Tj ) is 1, the extracted watermarking data is
“1”. Otherwise, if E(Tj ) is 0, the extracted watermarking
data is “0”. The equation for extracting watermark can be
expressed as following:






0)(1
1)(0'
j
j
i
TEif
TEif
w (3)
where 'iw (i=0, 1, 2, 3,…) is the i-th data of watermark. In
the proposed watermark extracting, the received EL stream
with watermarking data can be decoded to bit planes
through VLD at receiver end. After that, watermarking can
be easily extracted by Eq.(2), as detailed illustration of Fig
3 . Our watermark extracting algorithm is very easy, only
needs the calculating of bit 1, and needs not to memorize
the position of watermarking data. Hence, it is suitable for
developing watermarking technique in the fine-granularity-
scalability video stream transmission. Fig. 4 shows an
example of extracting watermark from the blocks of residual
bit-plane.
4 Experiment Results
To demonstrate the effectiveness of our development,
the computer simulation was performed. The test sequences,
Mobile, Bus, Akiyo, and Foreman, are selected in our
experiment to cover a variety of video characteristics. The
performance evaluation of the proposed BCW algorithm
includes watermarked video quality, attacking test and
compression rate. We describe these simulations as follows.
 Watermarked Video Quality
To prove the watermarked video is an acceptable quality,
we employ the PSNR to estimate the differences between
original video and watermarked video. The PSNR is
expressed by
dB
)()
1
(
255
log10
0
2
2
10

 


 M
i
N
oj
ijijNM
PSNR

(4)
where M, N are the length and width of the video frame,
respectively. ij and ij denote the pixel value of original
video frame and watermarked video frame respectively.
The original watermark is binary image of size 40×40
shown in Fig. 5. Consider a block residing in the LSB with
size of 88 in the MPEG-4 FGS coding. We want to insert
an original watermark bit into this block to form a
watermarked block. Note that the number of bits of original
watermark needs not the same number as blocks of LSB. In
our example, we form the embedded watermark by tiling the
original watermark, i.e., periodically replicating to the
desired size. Then the quality experiment of watermarked
video is evaluated by Eq.(3). Fig 6 illustrates the
comparisons of frames with and without bitplane-coding
watermarking. Fig. 6(a) is the frame without BCW with
PSNR of 44, and Fig. 6(b) is the frame employing BCW
with PSNR of 43.35dB. No noticeable artifacts can be
observed. Fig 7 shows the PSNR of certain continuous
frames of“Bus”video sequences. It is found that the quality
of watermarked video does not change a lot and is still in
the acceptable range of vision.
 Attacking Test
A good authentication watermarking can detect and localize
any change to the video, including changes in frame rate,
video size or related video object. If the watermarked video
is attacked by frame removing, and then the watermark
extracting procedure is applied on the attacked video, the
procedure returns a false alarm to indicate that the video
content becomes incomplete. Also, if one change the size of
watermarked video and then one applies the watermark
extraction procedure on this resized video, the procedure
returns an output that resembles random noise, meaning a
false alarm. Similarly, if one modifies certain related video
object, then the procedure will output a false alarm. Fig. 8
describes some experimental results of attacking test.
 Compression Rate
Table 1 shows improvement of compression rate with and
without BCW algorithm. The result indicates that the
proposed algorithm may really increase compression rate.
This is a significant contribution in the watermarking issue.
5 Conclusion
In this paper, we propose a simple and effective
bitplane-coding watermarking technique, which not only
provides a significant solution for the authentication of
MPEG-4 FGS video sequence but also improves the coding
efficiency. The proposed algorithm needs no complicated
computations while hiding or extracting watermark. In our
watermarking scheme, each bit-plane is watermarked using
a smart run-length-selection such that the longest run-length
can be obtained. Due to its structural simplicity, the
proposed coding technique can be easily mapped onto a
high-speed, low-complexity, and low-power circuit design.
Extracting
Watermark
Watermark
Reconstruction
Enhancement Layer
Stream
Random
Permutation Key
FGS
Bit-plane
Reconstruction
Fig. 3. Block diagram of proposed watermark extracting.
h’ = 5 h’ = 10
h’ = 4 h’ = 7
1 0
0 1
h’ : total number of 1
value in block
Fig. 4. An example of extracting watermark from the
blocks of residual bit-plane.
Fig. 5. Original watermark of size 40×40 binary image.
(a)
(b)
Fig 6. The comparisons of video quality with and without
proposed watermarking (a) 44.63dB (b) 43.35dB.
Fig 7. PSNR from first ten frames in “Bus” video
sequence with and without watermark.
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：95 年 10 月 13 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：同儕網路多媒體可調適串流服務之數位內容保護技術 
計畫主持人：王春清         
計畫編號：NSC 94－2213－E －018 －018           
學門領域：資訊系統管理 
技術/創作名稱 同儕網路多媒體可調適串流服務之數位內容保護技術 
發明人/創作人 王春清 
技術說明 
中文： 
 
我們提出了一個可應用於變動頻寬(Dynamic bandwidth)的網
路環境上之新式易脆型浮水印 (Fragile watermarking)技術,本
技術搭配 MPEG-4 FGS (Fine Granularity Scalability) 之視訊
串流(Video stream)傳輸架構剛好可以解決變動頻寬(Dynamic 
bandwidth)的網路環境上之問題。我們所提的壓縮浮水印演算法
(Compression-watermarking) 不 僅 可 達 到 數 位 內 容 之 認 證
(Authentication)的目的且可增進MPEG-4FGS之編碼效率(Coding 
efficiency) 。 本 演 算 法 主 要 是 將 浮 水 印 資 訊 (Watermark 
information) 加於MPEG-4 FGS之基楚層(Base layer)及加強層
(Enhancement layer)。實驗結果顯示Compression-watermarking
可偵測任何對 MPEG-4 FGS video內容之任何改變,並且增進coding 
efficiency約16 %。 
 
 
 
附件二 
5 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者 
出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                 
                                                         95 年 7 月 13 日 
 
 
報告人姓名 王春清 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立彰化師範大學電機工程系 
助理教授 
會議時間 
會議地點 
95 年 6 月 26 日至 6 月 29 日
美國 拉斯維加斯 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 94-2218-E-018-018 
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 2006 國際影像處理電腦視覺及行態識別研討會 
(英文) International Conference on Image Processing, Computer Vision, 
& Pattern Recognition (IPCV'06) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(中文)以位元平面浮水印方法應用於 MPEG-4 FGS 視訊之數位認證技術 
(英文) Digital Authentication and Verification in MPEG-4 Fine-Granular 
Scalability Video Using Bit-Plane Watermarking. 
 
報告內容包括下列各項： 
1. 參加會議經過 
2. 與會心得 
3. 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
4. 建議 
5. 攜回資料名稱及內容 
6. 其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
1. Wireless Networks (ICWN'06) 
2. Parallel & Distributed Processing Techniques & Applications and    
Real-Time Computing Systems & Applications (PDPTA'06 + TCOMP'06) 
3. Grid Computing & Applications (GCA'06) 
4. Software Engineering Research & Practice (SERP'06) 
5. Programming Languages & Compilers (PLC'06) 
6. Internet Computing (ICOMP'06), Semantic Web & Web Services 
(SWWS'06), and Computer Games Development (CGD'06) 
7. Engineering of Reconfigurable Systems & Algorithms (ERSA'06) 
8. Computer Design (CDES'06) and Computing in Nanotechnology (CNAN'06)
9. Artificial Intelligence (ICAI'06) 
10. Machine Learning; Models, Technologies & Applications (MLMTA'06) 
11. Data Mining (DMIN'06) 
12. Information & Knowledge Engineering (IKE'06) 
13. e-Learning, e-Business, Enterprise Information Systems, e-Government, 
& Outsourcing (EEE'06) 
14. Bioinformatics & Computational Biology (BIOCOMP'06) 
15. Image Processing, Computer Vision, & Pattern Recognition (IPCV'06) 
16. Modeling, Simulation & Visualization Methods (MSV'06) 
17. Computer Graphics & Virtual Reality (CGVR'06) 
18. Security & Management (SAM'06) 
19. Communications in Computing (CIC'6) 
20. Embedded Systems & Applications (ESA'06) 
21. Pervasive Systems & Computing (PSC'06) 
22. Scientific Computing (CSC'06) 
23. Frontiers in Education: Computer Science & Computer Engineering 
(FECS'06) 
    這次會議中，本人於 29 日上午 11:20 發表一篇有關於，在無線射頻辨
系統中，可以有效讀取多個 tag 的方法，題目為 An Efficient scheme for 
multiple access in a RFID system。並於會後利用回程，順道參訪加州大學洛
杉磯分校(UCLA)的電腦系與電機系兩系所的研究環境與相關設施。 
 3
