 2
these devices are typically deposited in an 
amorphous phase, and are then crystallized to be 
in a large grain polysilicon phase with a low 
grain-boundary density. Excimer laser annealing 
(ELA) has been actively investigated as an 
alternative method for the crystallization of α-Si 
films [4-5]. The major advantages of this 
technique are the formation of polysilicon grains 
with excellent structural quality and the ability to 
process selected areas without thermal damage 
to the glass substrate. However, a grain size less 
than 100 nm as a result of the extremely high 
solidification velocity inherent to ELA has been 
a troublesome problem. In addition, non 
uniformity in laser-recrystallized poly-Si films 
may arise owing to laser beam overlap and poor 
pulse-to-pulse stability [6-7]. To cope with these 
problems, a number of schemes have been 
proposed to enlarge the grain size and improve 
the uniformity of poly-Si films [5-7]. Recently, 
low-cost easily maintained solid-state 
continuous-wave laser crystallization (CLC) 
[8-11] and a high-frequency pulse solid-state 
laser [12] (SSL) have been developed, which 
allows the growth of crystals as large as 3 × 20 
μm2 extending along the laser scanning direction, 
resulting in high-performance poly-Si TFTs with 
excellent uniformity. However, the scan speed of 
high-frequency pulse SSL is very low (~mm/s) 
in order to connect the small grains formed at 
each pulse, resulting in low throughput in 
fabrication manufacturing. The CLC technique 
makes it easy to form large grains with high scan 
speed and wide energy range because of 
continuous energy supply, leading to a 
high-throughput process in product 
manufacturing. Unfortunately, the long melting 
time (~ 1 ms) due to the continuous energy 
supply induces random microscopic cracks at the 
interface between the buffer insulator and the 
crystallized poly-Si film as well as impurity 
diffusion from the substrate, resulting in product 
quality issues. Various measures [8-11] have 
been reported to reduce the microscopic cracks 
between the buffer insulator and the crystallized 
poly-Si film. Thus, the feasibility and 
mechanism of CLC is unclear.  
In this work, we will investigate and 
demonstrate the feasibility of the CLC technique 
applied to product manufacturing from the 
viewpoint of optimized laser parameters, 
particularly scan speed stability. To our 
knowledge, the correlation between scan speed 
stability and microscopic cracks has not been 
investigated. We believe that CLC using 
optimized laser parameters with a stable scan 
speed will provide a feasible and simple method 
for fabricating large grained poly-Si film for 
high-performance poly-Si TFTs on inexpensive 
glass substrates. 
 
II. Experiment 
Self-aligned top-gated n-channel solid-state 
CLC poly-Si TFTs were fabricated on a 
100-nm-thick plasma-enhanced chemical vapor 
deposition (PECVD) silicon nitride and followed 
by a 400-nm-thick PECVD silicon-dioxide- 
covered 1737 Corning glass substrate according 
to the following procedures. A 100-nm-thick 
PECVD α-Si layer was first deposited using a 
SiH4 process at 350 ℃, followed by annealing at 
450 ℃ to reduce the hydrogen content. All 
specimens were then crystallized using a 
scanning solid-state CW laser at room 
temperature in ambient air. A stable diode- 
pumped solid-state (DPSS) CW laser [532 nm 
(second harmonic (2ω) of Nd:YVO4)] was used. 
The power instability in the DPSS CW laser was 
less than 1% and the laser spot size was 200 × 10 
μm2. No capping layer was formed on the Si 
film.  
After laser annealing, the silicon film was 
patterned into individual active device islands, 
with a 120-nm-thick PECVD tetraethyl 
orthosilicate (TEOS) oxide deposited at 300 ℃ 
to serve as the gate insulator. A second poly-Si 
 4
 
Fig. 2. Dependence of grain size on irradiated laser energy 
of CLC for crystallized poly-Si films 
above the turnaround point, the silicon film will 
be partially or completely molten, depending on 
irradiated laser energy, and crystallized by 
liquid-phase crystallization, resulting in a rapid 
increase in grain size with increasing laser 
energy. Thus, CLC makes it easy to form large 
grains within a wide energy range, as shown in 
Fig. 2, because of the slow molten Si cooling 
rate due to the continuous energy supply and 
directional solidification caused by laser 
scanning.  
Figures 3(a) and 3(b) depict the correlation 
between the stability of laser scan speed and the 
morphology of the crystallized Si films. The 
scan speed is set at 10.5 cm/s for Figs. 3(a) and 
3(b). The laser energy and the deviation rate in 
scan speed are 3.8W and 0.8 cm/s, respectively, 
for Fig. 3(a) and 4.1W and 0.3 cm/s, respectively, 
for Fig. 3(b). To discuss the correlation, the 
deviation rate in scan speed for Fig. 3(a) was 
intentionally designed to be larger than that for 
Fig. 3(b). In addition, to stress the effect of the 
deviation rate in scan speed on the film crack or 
temperature gradient, the laser energy for Fig. 
3(b) was also intentionally designed to be higher 
than that for Fig. 3(a). In Fig. 3(a), cracks were  
 
Fig. 3. Correlation between stability of laser scan speed 
and morphology of crystallized Si films. The scan speed is 
set at 10.5 cm/s for (a) and (b). The laser energy and the 
deviation rate in the scan speed are 3.8W and 0.8 cm/s, 
respectively, for (a) and 4.1W and 0.3 cm/s, respectively, 
for (b). 
 
periodically produced in the irradiated Si films 
in each parallel trace. We presumed that the 
cracks were caused periodically owing to the 
inconsistent scan speed during the scanning 
process. Scanning was periodically slowed down, 
resulting in a longer melting time and an 
increase in temperature, leading to the cracks in 
the crystallized Si film as a result of the 
changing temperature gradient. Figure 3(b) 
shows the scan speed with a small deviation rate, 
