行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
■ 成 果 報 告
□期中進度報告
（計畫名稱）
以含氮氣體處理介電質與多晶矽鍺電極結構延伸目前深溝渠式
DRAM 儲存介電質縮微極限之研究
計畫類別：  個別型計畫 □ 整合型計畫
計畫編號：NSC 94－2218-E－007－060－
執行期間： 94 年 11 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日
計畫主持人：巫勇賢
共同主持人：
計畫參與人員：吳家榮, 黃峰祥, 張家軒, 林元生
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)： 精簡報告 □完整報告
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件：
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢
□涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢
執行單位：清華大學工程與系統科學系
中 華 民 國 九 十 五 年 十 月 十 三 日
2discussed and successfully integrated in trench technology. High-k material is assuredly the
inevitable trend for DRAM, RF/mixed signal IC [6-7] and CMOS [8-9] development; however,
for trench DRAM chipmakers, they will mostly spend the capital expenditure on advanced
equipment such as atomic layer deposition (ALD) tool [4-5] for high-k process at their 300 mm
plants because of cost consideration. Under the circumstance, for 200 mm plants, it becomes
imperious to explore the possibility to extend the employment of incumbent nitride/oxide (NO)
storage dielectric for next generations. In our previous work [10], NO storage dielectric founds its
extensibility by transforming the oxide layer into oxynitride through additional nitridation and
reoxidation. Enhanced cell capacitance with satisfied leakage current and reliability are exhibited
via this scheme. This approach, however, achieves such promising electrical characteristics at the
price of adding extra cost since the additional nitridation and reoxidation are conducted under low
pressure condition, much different from the growth condition of oxide layer which is in
atmosphere. It means additional furnace process and consequent expense are ineluctable. In this
work, in-situ nitrous oxide (N2O) wet oxidation is proposed to circumvent the penalty of previous
work. Although N2O treatment has been widely investigated in gate dielectric to improve its
quality [11-13], the related applications in DRAM storage dielectric are never found in the
literatures. Most importantly, without extra equipment investment, this technique demonstrates
the potential to pave the way for the next step of existent NO dielectric.
II. EXPERIMENT
Trench capacitors with 140 nm design rule were adopted to evaluate the electrical properties
of various storage dielectrics. Top and bottom electrode were respectively formed by highly
As-doped buried plate and poly-Si to suppress majority carrier depletion effect. Conventional NO
grown by low-pressure thin nitride deposition and subsequent one-atmosphere wet oxidation was
designated as the control sample [10]. Another dielectric, denoted as N2ONO, was formed by
in-situ N2O wet oxidation of thin nitride film. The in-situ N2O wet oxidation process includes the
N2O gas injection in the steam ambient and the post-oxidation N2O treatment at 950OC at one
atmosphere. The other dielectric, denoted as RNNO, was composed of a thin nitride and
oxynitride film formed by N2O reoxidation of NH3 nitrided oxide at 900OC [10]. Note that the
thin nitride films of both N2ONO and RNNO dielectrics are kept the same as that of control
sample to examine the impact of oxynitride on cell electrical characteristics. A brief process flow
comparison among all dielectrics is shown in Fig. 1. The N2ONO process development arose
from the elimination of electron traps induced by hydrogen-containing gas and the higher
nitridation degree compared with simple post-oxidation N2O treatment since nitrogen is expected
to be incorporated in the bulk rather than only on the oxide interface during the in-situ N2O wet
oxidation process. The initial oxide thickness of RNNO was 1.66 nm characterized by
transmission electron microscope, the same as that of control sample. For the oxynitride thickness
of N2ONO, it was elaborately adjusted so as to have the same cell capacitance as that of RNNO.
The purpose of this thickness adjustment was to examine the electrical characteristics of these
4assess the SILC effect by the voltage variation at given leakage current density (-0.1 A/cm2) and
Fig. 4b reveals the result. N2ONO and RNNO samples show comparable voltage difference with
control NO sample which implies no SILC degradation was observed for those with decreased
EOT. Even with prominent property of SILC, the dielectric lifetime test of N2ONO sample was
also performed to confirm its reliability. To predict the lifetime of the storage dielectric under
normal operation condition (256M array with -0.8V stress at 110 OC), the failures were
accelerated at elevated voltages and temperature. This analysis was first proceeded by constant
voltage stress with -5.2 V, -5.0 V and -4.8 V respectively at 125 OC and time-to-breakdown (tbd)
of three voltages were recorded. Then the three different tbd distributions were merged into one
by voltage transformation through linear-E model which is generally used to evaluate intrinsic
breakdown [21-23]. Finally the temperature transformation and Poisson area scaling method were
executed to obtain what is presented in Fig. 5. Reliability result for control NO and N2ONO are
both illustrated. Since each distribution from high-voltage stress was transformed into the
operation voltage by voltage acceleration factor, non-straight distribution of the merged one may
appear once one of these distributions has non-straight nature before transformation. The straight
lines used to fit the distribution are obtained by least-square fitting for the lower 2/3 points in
each distribution. The factor 2/3 comes from the fact that the upper 1/3 points correspond to the
lifetime much beyond 10 years which is the lifetime most concerned for commercial DRAM
product. The test structure was trench capacitors with 133 K arrays and the lifetime for 256 M
was achieved by Poisson area scaling. Note that there is a shaded area for which the lower limit
of the y-axis corresponds to failure rate of 438 ppm while the border on the x-axis is 10 years.
Once extension of the transformed lifetime distribution touches the shaded area, it suggests that
the dielectric failure rate would exceed 438 ppm before 10-year operation and does not meet the
reliability qualification standard of commercial DRAM capacitor. Although both control NO and
N2ONO sample possess satisfactory reliability performance without touching the shaded area,
clearly N2ONO sample has lower failure rate mainly due to the reduction of charge trapping and
it is consistent with the result of literature [12].
IV. CONCLUSION
Another approach to prolong the employment of NO-based storage dielectric to next DRAM
generation by N2O wet oxidation and post-oxidation N2O treatment has been proposed.
Compared with conventional NO dielectric, it demonstrates 12.6% cell capacitance improvement
while preserving comparable leakage current. Moreover, this newly-developed dielectric is
eligible for storage dielectric since it reveals good reliability performance with its failure rate less
than 438 ppm after 10-year operation. In contrast to previous work that meliorates the NO-based
dielectric by NH3 nitridation and N2O reoxidation, the appealing point of this technique lies in the
simplicity and economy in oxynitride formation because no additional process is required and
such economic way to promote performance will become much more crucial in the keenly
competitive DRAM market.
6第二部分: 顛覆傳統上先氮化矽後氧化層之 DRAM 儲存介電質結構，本計畫以先氧化層後
氮化矽之結構大幅簡化製程至一個爐管製程即可完成所有儲存介電質所需的步驟。此部份
之研究成果已刊登於 2006 年 IEEE Electron Device Letters。
中文摘要
本計畫以低壓氧化與氮化矽沉積輔以額外之ㄧ氧化二氮處理完成單一爐管製程之深
溝渠式 DRAM 儲存介電質開發。與和傳統的氮化矽-氧化層儲存介電質相較之下，此新式
介電層可在不犧牲其漏電流與電子侷陷表現之前提下擁有 12.5% 之電容值提升。其可靠度
的分析亦確認其使用年限可達 10 年。最重要的是本技術可以在不增加機台設備投資之情況
下大幅減少生產時間，此技術的成功對於成本競爭激烈的 DRAM 市場會有相當的助益。
ABSTRACT
A simplified and integrated technique has been proposed to form ON (oxide/nitride) storage
dielectric in a single furnace process by low pressure oxidation and nitride film deposition with
extra N2O treatment for trench DRAM. Compared with conventional NO (nitride/oxide)
dielectric, this newly developed dielectric enjoys cell capacitance enhancement factor as high as
8treatment is to moderately enhance the dielectric constant by incorporating nitrogen and to
improve the Si/SiO2 interfacial density and fixed oxide charge. The thin nitride film was then
deposited by the same process condition as other dielectrics. Note that the thickness of
as-deposited nitride was alike for control NO and N2ONO dielectrics while that of ON dielectric
was fine tuned to be nearly the same as the remaining nitride thickness after oxidation of N2ONO
dielectric. To convert the as-deposited nitride film to be more stoichiometric and suppress the
number of hydrogen concentration, a 950 oC, low-pressure NH3 nitridation along with N2O
treatment was subsequently employed for ON dielectric [8-9]. The oxide thickness of control NO,
N2ONO and ON dielectric after process was respectively 1.66, 1.38 and 1.40 nm, confirmed by
transmission electron microscope. The purpose of elaborately adjusted thickness of oxide and
nitride for ON dielectric was to have nearly identical thickness with those of N2ONO dielectric to
study the impact of oxide and nitride growth sequence on electrical characteristics. To render the
electron tunneling from oxide side that causes worse reliability performance [10], different
voltage polarity was applied to each dielectric for electrical characterization.
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Besides data retention consideration, high cell capacitance is also essential for read operation
since it determines the signal developed for final sense. The cell capacitance comparison for
different storage dielectrics is demonstrated in Fig. 1. N2ONO and ON dielectric respectively
enjoys 12.8% and 12.5% cell capacitance enhancement compared with control NO. For ON
dielectric, the slightly lower capacitance than N2ONO dielectric can be ascribed to thicker oxide
film and little oxidation of the nitride film. The minute oxidation of the nitride film is expected
because of low-pressure N2O treatment and the more stoichiometric structure that resists
oxidation. The conspicuous cell capacitance enhancement of ON dielectric over the control NO is
mainly due to the thinner oxide thickness and partly due to the moderately increased dielectric
constant of the oxide film from N2O treatment. Apart from cell capacitance requirement, the
tunneling leakage current through dielectric is another major indicator for storage dielectric [5].
Fig. 2 reveals the leakage current at 1 V for control NO, N2ONO and ON dielectrics and all meet
the requirement of industry specification which is less than 1 fA/cell. Nevertheless the physical
thickness of ON dielectric was thinner than control NO, the leakage current of ON dielectric
almost makes no difference and this result can be attributed to the strengthening of the oxide by
reducing the amount of distorted bonds through nitrogen incorporation [11] and improved nitride
quality due to low pressure N2O treatment which is more efficient in reducing H-related species
than one-atmosphere O2 oxidation used in control NO [12]. Another possible explanation for the
suppressing leakage current of ON dielectric is the lessened non-uniform filamentary current at
the oxide/bottom electrode (Si buried plate) interface than that of control NO which is emanated
from atomically rough oxide/top electrode (poly Si) interface [13]. The comparable leakage
current for ON and N2ONO dielectrics indicates that the inverse growth sequence of oxide and
nitride is a potential candidate as the DRAM storage dielectric. In fact, the storage dielectric was
10
REFERENCES
[1]. J. Amon, et al., in IEDM Tech. Dig., 2004, pp. 73-76.
[2]. U. Schroeder, et al., in 208th Meeting of The Electrochemical Society, Los Angeles, 2005.
[3]. D.-S. Kil, et al., in Symp. VLSI Tech. Dig., 2004, pp. 126-127.
[4]. K. H. Lee, et al., in IEDM Tech. Dig., 2004, pp. 841-844.
[5]. Y.-H. Wu, et al., IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 26, no. 2, pp. 66-68, Feb. 2005.
[6]. Y.-H. Wu, et al., Electrochemical and Solid State Lett., vol. 9, no. 6, G204-G207, Apr. 2006.
[7]. A. Chin, et al., IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 18, no. 9, pp. 417-419, Sep. 1997.
[8]. B. Y. Kim, et al., in IEDM Tech. Dig., 1997, pp. 463-466.
[9]. Y. Ma, et al., Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 64, no. 17, pp. 2226-2228, Apr. 1994.
[10]. E. Wu, et al., in IEDM Tech. Dig., 1997, pp. 77-80.
[11]. L. K. Han, et al., in IEDM Tech. Dig., 1994, pp. 617-620.
[12]. G. W. Yoon, et al., in Symp. VLSI Tech. Dig., 1994, pp. 155-156.
[13]. P. P. Apte, et al., IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 14, no. 11, pp. 512-514, Nov. 1993.
[14]. K. S. Tang, et al., IEEE Circuits & Devices Magazine, vol. 13, pp. 27-34, May 1997.
[15]. Z. Liu, et al., IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 13, no. 10, pp. 519-521, Oct. 1992.
