 1 
 
 
摘要 
本研究執行含根系土壤之現地剪力試驗，探討土壤含水量對含根系土壤抗剪強度之影
響，使用之植物為田菁(Sesbania cannabina Merr.)。於降雨情況下，土壤含水量增加，土
壤-根系間之互動行為對植物根系提供土體抗剪強度增量及抵抗邊坡淺層破壞有相當程
度之影響。土壤抗剪強度隨含水量之增加顯著降低，本研究發現植物(田菁)根系提供土體
之尖峰抗剪強度增量(USp)隨著土壤含水量升高而顯著增加。於土壤含水量接近飽和情
況，尖峰抗剪強度效益(Root efficiency)可高達 1 以上。此外，根系提供之尖峰抗剪強度
增量(USp)與每單位土壤面積之根系強度比(tR)關係可表示為USp≈0.34tR；殘餘抗剪強度
增量(USr) 與 tR 之關係可表示為USr≈0.42tR。本研究試驗成果之USp 與 tR 關係比值甚低
於由力平衡理論獲得之結果USp≈1.2 tR。 
關鍵詞：含根系土壤、土體含水量、現地直剪試驗、根力、抗剪強度 
Abstract 
This research presents an experimental study on effect of soil moisture content on the shear 
strength of root-reinforced soils by conducting in-situ shear tests. The plant used in the shear 
tests is Prickly Sesban (Sesbania cannabina Merr.). Performance of plants in stabilizing 
slopes against shallow landslides in rainfall activity is closely relevant to the variation of the 
shear strength of root-reinforced soils with changes in moisture content, which may take 
place due to seasonal effects (e.g. rainfall and temperature changes) as well as the influence 
of vegetations. The shear strength of soils may decrease noticeably with increasing soil 
moisture content. The role of roots in providing the shear strength to root-reinforced soils 
turns out to be important if soils are subjected to an increase in moisture content. The 
experimental results show that root efficiency, defined as the ratio of the additional shear 
strength provided by roots over the shear strength of soils, may reach more than 1.0 if soils 
are close to the saturated condition. In addition, an approximately linear relationship between 
the additional shear strength (∆S) provided by roots and the tensile strength of roots per unit 
area of soils (tR) is obtained in this study, and the ratio of ∆Sp/tR (based on the peak shear 
strength) is about 0.34; the ratio of ∆Sr/tR (based on the residual shear strength) is about 0.42. 
These results are considerably less than the theoretic value (∆Sp/tR =1.2).  
 
Keyword：root-reinforced soils, soil moisture content, in-situ shear tests, root cohesion, shear 
strength 
1. 前言 
植物根系能提供邊坡土壤保護與穩定功能之觀念萌芽於 1960 年代，過去 40 年以來，
這方面之研究與相關知識持續增長。植物根系與邊坡土壤之結合作用形成一種天然之邊
 3 
 
 
3.土壤試體含水量控制 
為求試驗土體之含水量能均勻分佈，茲將目前測試成效較佳之現地土壤含水量控制方
式與步驟描述如后： 
(1)土體頂面平均鑽9孔，孔徑約5mm，深度20cm。 
(2)以底部具細網孔狀之盛水盒置於試體頂面，盒內底面鋪設不織布，作為盛水盒內
水入滲土體前之緩衝帶，使得土體含水量於頂面水入滲後能獲得較均勻之分佈。 
(3)於盛水盒中加入固定水量，使水緩慢滲入土壤試體內，於加水後靜置24小時，使
試體頂面之水有充裕時間均勻入滲。 
於盛水盒內注入8公升水，並靜置24小時後，取土體內數個深度之土壤進行含水量試
驗，發現土壤於地表下約12cm內之含水量均勻度佳，上述之試體含水量(飽和度)準備步
驟應可接受為控制現地土體含水量(飽和度)之方式。經取各不同水量(取4公升、6公升、8
公升、10公升)使均勻入滲於現地試驗土壤中，得使用水量與土壤含水量之關係示於圖3。
此一關係圖即作為控制試驗現場土壤含水量之依據。 
此外，為確認土壤含水飽和度之準備達目標值，於直剪試驗前並以現地土壤水份計進
行測試。此一現地水份計為Spectrum Technologies, Inc.所開發，乃利用時域反射法(TDR)
原理製造，待土壤含水量達要求情況，始進行直剪試驗。 
 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12
Volume of water (L)
16
17
18
19
20
W
at
er
 c
on
te
nt
 (%
)
 
圖3 現地試驗場地土壤使用入滲水量與土壤含水量之關係圖  
4.土壤含水量對含植物根系土體抗剪強度之影響 
經由控制不同土壤含水量條件下，進行含根系土體之現地直剪試驗，並同時進行未含
根系土體之現地直剪試驗。為降低現地土壤性質差異之影響，各組試驗均包括含根系土
體與鄰近未含根系土體兩個試體之試驗數據，二試體間距約 50cm，其抗剪強度差值即為
根系提供之抗剪強度增量。因現地土壤性質差異及含水量均勻程度等因素，篩選 21 組結
Average curve
+   Test data 
Possible range 
 5 
 
 
5 10 15 20 25
Soil moisture content (%)
0
5
10
15
20
δ p 
(c
m
)
20 40 60 80 100
Degree of saturation (%)
Legend
Root-reinforced soils
Soils without roots
 
圖 5 含根系土體受剪後尖峰強度與殘餘強
度差值與含水量關係圖 
圖 6 土體達尖峰強度時之剪位移量與含
水量關係圖 
 
 δ
τ
Legend
Low water content
Medium water content
High water content
τp
τr
 
圖 7 不同含水量情況下之土體剪應力(τ)與剪位移(δ)關係示意圖 
 
5. 土壤含水量對含植物根系土體抗剪強度增量之影響 
植物根系提供土體尖峰抗剪強度增量（USp）為未含根系土體與含植物根系土體尖峰抗
剪強度之差值，可表示為下式。 
pS∆ = , ,p r p sτ τ−                         (1) 
式中τp,s 為未含根系土壤尖峰抗剪強度；τp,r為含根系土壤尖峰抗剪強度。植物根系提供土
體尖峰抗剪強度增量(USp)與土壤含水量之關係如圖 8，顯示植物根系提供土體之尖峰抗剪
強度增量(USp)隨著土壤含水量升高而增加。土壤因含水量增加導致尖峰抗剪強度之降
低，而含根系土體中之水對於根系與土壤之互制作用影響性較低，因此，根系提供土體尖
 7 
 
含水量達 22.5％時（約 90％飽和度），尖峰抗剪強度效益高達約 1.0~1.2；於一般自然含水
量情況（約 10～12％），植物根系提供之尖峰抗剪強度效益約為 0.15～0.3 間。此外，當土
壤含水量達 22.5％時（約 90％飽和度），殘餘抗剪強度效益高達約 1.5，於一般自然含水量
情況（約 10～12％），植物根系提供之殘餘抗剪強度效益約為 0.2～0.7 間。降雨情況下，
淺層邊坡土壤含水飽和度迅速增加。本研究試驗數據結果顯示植物根系於降雨情況下對土
壤抗剪強度貢獻度之重要性與角色。於降雨情況，未含有植物根系之邊坡淺層土壤可能因
土壤含水飽和度增加而產生破壞，而於含有根系之邊坡則因植物根系力學提供之抗剪強度
效益可達土壤之 1 倍以上，植生邊坡發生淺層破壞之情況則可降低，即植物根系於降雨期
間對抵抗淺層邊坡破壞之效益甚為具體。 
6.含植物根系土體抗剪強度增量與根力強度之關係 
本研究亦進行田菁根系之拉力強度試驗，試驗根長約 15cm，根直徑範圍在 0.5～4.3mm
間，以材料拉力試驗機設定拉距 10cm 施作根段拉力試驗，共計完成 21 個樣本，最大拉力
強度為 159741kPa（直徑為 1mm），最小拉力強度為 10906kPa（直徑為 3mm）。由試驗結
果得知，直徑愈大之根系，其最大拉力和根段伸長量亦愈大。為進一步瞭解植物根系最大
拉力與根系直徑分佈之關係，植物根系最大拉力與植物根系直徑關係試驗結果如圖 12。若
將根系最大拉力轉為根系拉力強度，則根系拉力強度與根系直徑之關係如圖 13，越細小的
根系具有較高的拉力強度，此試驗結果趨勢與過去研究相符合（張俊斌與林信輝，1995；
林信輝，1995；Operstein 與 Frydman，2000；Cazzuffi 與 Crippa，2005）。此一試驗數據亦
進行迴歸分析，田菁根系拉力強度與根系直徑之關係如下式。 
              1.153000ultT D−= ×                       （5） 
式中 ultT 為根段拉力強度（kPa）；D為根直徑（mm）。 
 
5 10 15 20 25
Soil moisture content (%)
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
∆S
r /
 τ r,
s
20 40 60 80 100
Degree of saturation (%)
 
圖 10 含根系土體之尖峰抗剪強度效益與
土壤含水量關係圖 
圖 11 含根系土體之殘餘抗剪強度效益
與土壤含水量關係圖 
 9 
 
0.42r RS t∆ =                       （8） 
以上關係式乃假設根系受剪後均達極限強度。若可獲得植物根系於土壤受剪後發展之實際
拉力值，代入式(6)之 Ti，獲得 tR值，並根據式(7)計算根系提供之尖峰抗剪強度增量(USp)，
則獲得之USp 值偏保守。本研究獲得之評估根系提供之尖峰抗剪強度公式(式(7))與 Wu and 
Watson(1998)之研究成果接近 (USp ≈0.4TR(AR/A))，式 (7)之USp 略高於 Operstein 與
Frydman（2000）研究成果(USp=0.25 tR)。此外，本試驗成果USp 甚低於由力平衡理論獲
得之結果USp≈1.2 tR (Wu et al, 1979）。 
     
(a) (b) 
圖 14 含根系土體之抗剪強度增量與根系拉力強度比關係圖。(a)尖峰抗剪強度增量；
(b)殘餘抗剪強度增量（註：土壤含水量範圍為 14％~17％） 
7.結論 
本研究執行含根系土壤之現地直剪試驗，探討土壤含水量對植物根系提供之抗剪強度增
量之影響。使用田菁為試驗植物，於降雨情況下，植物根系對於抑制邊坡淺層破壞之角色
可由本研究之試驗結果獲得進一步了解。本研究之主要成果整理如后。 
(1)土壤含水量增加對於含根系土壤抗剪行為之影響包括：(1)降低土體尖峰與殘餘抗剪
強度；(2)減少土體尖峰與殘餘抗剪強度差值；(3)延遲土體到達尖峰抗剪強度之剪位
移量；(4)導致土體整體抵抗變形勁度降低。 
(2)植物(田菁)根系提供土體之尖峰抗剪強度增量(USp)隨著土壤含水量升高而增加。於
一般自然土壤含水量情況（約 10～12％；飽和度=40%~50%），植物根系提供之尖
峰抗剪強度效益約為 0.15～0.3 間；於土壤含水飽和度達 90％，尖峰抗剪強度效益高
達約 1.0~1.2。顯示植物根系於高土壤含水量時提供土壤較多之抗剪強度貢獻效益，
降雨情況下，淺層邊坡土壤飽和度迅速增加，植生邊坡發生淺層破壞之情況可因植
物之存在而降低，即植物根系於降雨期間提供抵抗淺層邊坡破壞之角色相當顯著。 
 11 
 
9.計畫成果自評 
本研究內容與原計畫書內容相符，且研究成果達成預期目標，目前已將部份研究成果
撰寫為論文，投稿於國外期刊。此外，研究成果具實際工程應用價值，對於降雨情況下，
以植生進行淺層邊坡穩定保護之適用性評估提供一具體參考資料。 
Characteristics of Very Soft Marine Bangkok Soft Clays  
Prof. Bergado D.T  
  Thermo　 -mechanical Behavior and Stabilization of Soft Bangkok Clay  
Ir Dr Ting Wen Hui  
  The Role of Debris Flow in Hazardous Ground Movement 　  
Ir Raymond Chan  
  Challenges in Slope Engineering in Hong Kong 　  
Mr S. Varaksin  
  Challenges in Ground Improvement Techniques for Extreme C　 onditions: 
Concept and Performance  
SPECIAL LECTURES  
Assoc. Prof. Chu Jian  
  Ground Improvement in Disaster Mitigation and Rehabilitation Works 　  
Dr. Chin Chung-Tien  
  Establishment of Environmental Geology Database in Taiwan 　  
Assoc. Prof Dr N Phien -wej  
  Ground Movements Associated with the Underground Excavations of the First 　
Bangkok MRT Line  
Ir. Tan Yean Chin  
  Geotechnical Failure Investigation of a Reinforced Soil Wall and Remedial 　
Works Design 
 
(二)與會心得 
    本人除了發表自己的論文以外，並出席參加了許多其他論文之發表。此次發
表的論文主要包括下列主題： 
 
1. Properties & Characterization of Soils & Rocks 
2. Embankments & Dams  
3. Foundations 
4. Design Analysis and Modelling 
5. Geosynthetics & Geo-Products 
6. Retaining Systems 
7. Ground Improvement 
8. Slopes  
9. Soil Dynamic, Earthquake Engineering & Tsunamis 
10. Laboratory & Field Testing & Centrifuge 
11. Tunnelling and Engineering Geology 
 
 2
A Hybrid Reinforced Embankment System Used in Mountainous Roadways 
Chia-cheng Fan & Chih-Chung Hsieh 
Dept. of Construction Engrg., National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology, Taiwan 
 2 Juoyue Rd., Nantzu District, Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.   
ccfan@ccms.nkfust.edu.tw 
Abstract: This paper introduces a hybrid reinforced earth embankment system, a reinforced embankment strengthened by soil nails, 
used in conditions where the space for filling is limited. This hybrid reinforced embankment is specifically suitable to collapsed moun-
tainous roadways, which mostly have limited space to place reinforcements with a sufficient length. To achieve a stable mechanical 
system, soil nails on back of reinforced earth structures are designed to provide additional resisting forces for stabilizing the structure. 
Mechanical behavior of the hybrid reinforced embankment proposed is analyzed using finite element analyses. The stress distributions 
in reinforcements and soil nails are investigated for the hybrid embankment system under static and traffic loading conditions. 
1  INTRODUCTION  
Reinforced earth retaining structures are conventionally used in 
area with sufficient width for placing reinforcements. Methods 
for analyzing the safety of reinforced earth retaining structures 
have been well developed and established during the past dec-
ades. Reinforced earth embankments are common engineering 
methods in transportation projects, however, its application in 
mountainous roadways may be restricted due to a possibly lim-
ited construction space. Thus, reinforced concrete walls using cut 
and fill methods, as shown in Fig. 1, are usually employed as the 
embankment of  roadways in mountainous area.  Although design 
and analysis of reinforced concrete walls are well established and 
have been used for a long period of time, height of RC retaining 
walls needs to be limited (usually less than 6m) to ensure the 
safety of retaining walls. In addition, facing of RC retaining 
walls is difficult to be in good harmony with its surrounding en-
vironment, e.g. Fig. 2. Facing of reinforced earth retaining struc-
tures can be vegetated readily, and construction of reinforced 
earth retaining structures has a considerably low impact to the 
surrounding environment. Thus, use of reinforced earth em-
bankments in mountainous roadways is advantageous in terms of 
esthetical aspects and engineering cost. To increase the use of re-
inforced embankments in mountainous area, a hybrid embank-
ment system which incorporates a reinforced embankment with 
soil nails is developed to use in area with limited construction 
space, i.e. reinforcement length is not sufficient to reach a stable 
structure. The idea of the hybrid embankment system is to use 
soil nails as additional resisting forces to stabilize the reinforced 
embankment which is unstable due to use of insufficient rein-
forcement lengths. 
Advantages of the hybrid reinforced embankment system pro-
posed is summarized as follows: (1)suitable to difficult terrain 
due to use of simple construction equipment; (2)good environ-
mental protection due to use of almost no cement; (3)ease of 
vegetation on the facing; (4)good performance in seismic condi-
tion; (5)fast in construction. The idea of this hybrid reinforced 
embankment is highly feasible in engineering practice. However, 
there is no theory or methodology, e.g. limit equilibrium methods, 
so far to analyze the hybrid embankment system proposed. Me-
chanical behavior of the hybrid embankment system was investi-
gated in this paper during the construction stage, static loading, 
and traffic loading using finite element analyses. 
 
 
Fig. 1 Use of RC retaining walls as the embankment of  a road-
way in mountainous area. 
2  COMPONENTS OF THE HYBRID EMBANKMENT 
SYSTEM PROPOSED 
A series of connecting elements are used to incorporate rein-
forced earth embankments with soil nails. Illustration of the hy-
brid embankment system used in mountainous roadway is shown 
in Fig. 3(a). In addition, a connecting structure, as shown in Fig. 
3(b), was developed to attach reinforcements with soil nails. The 
connecting structure, improved from a patented connecting 
method (Chou and Fan, 2004), consisting of a series of stainless 
steel wire ropes and stainless steel pipes on the existing slope. 
Stainless steel wire ropes, connecting elements, are used to con-
nect soil nails and reinforcing materials by binding the nail’s 
head and the steel pipe. At least a pair of stainless steel wire rope 
clips are used to tie the stainless steel wire rope at both ends. 
Horizontal spacing for the connecting elements is typically 1 to 
1.5m, which can also be adjusted based on needs in the design. 
This hybrid reinforced embankment system can be used in wid-
ening of roadway in mountainous area in addition to the function 
of repairing collapsed roadways. 
 1
by a plate extended to one unit width, in the two-dimensional 
plane strain finite element analysis. Plates in the 2-D finite ele-
ment analysis consist of beam elements with three nodes for each 
beam element, and there are three degrees of freedom per node, 
i.e. two translational degrees of freedom and one rotational de-
gree of freedom. For the modeling of a beam, the Mindlin beam 
theory was used in the finite element procedure. In addition to 
the tensile force, bending and shear deformation can be taken 
into account in the modeling of nails subjected to shear deforma-
tion. Properties of soil nails are represented with equivalent 
properties that reflect the spacing between the nails in the out-of-
plane direction. The nail was modeled using an elastic perfectly-
plastic behavior, with a limiting tensile force (Np) and maximum 
bending moment (Mp). The required properties for the soil nail 
are Poisson’s ratio, axial stiffness (EA), and flexural stiffness 
(EI). The thickness (deq) for the equivalent plate is calculated as 
deq=(12EI/EA)0.5. In addition, the limiting tensile force and 
maximum bending moment for nails were calculated based on 
one unit width. The strength contributed by the mortar surround-
ing the nail was ignored in the analysis due to its liability to 
crack at a slightly shear deformation. The elastic modulus of the 
nail is 2.1108 kPA, and bending stiffness, EI, of the nail with a 
diameter of 29mm is 7.29 kN-m2. The values of Np and Mp were 
calculated for simply the rebar material. Table 1 illustrates the 
properties of the soil nail used in the analyses.   
 
Fig. 5 Required reinforcement length for reinforced embank-
ments (height=7m) with various slope angles. 
In addition, soil-nail interfaces were placed at both sides of 
nails. Three pairs of nodes were used for interface elements, cor-
responding to one adjacent 6-node soil element. The interface 
element was assigned to a “virtual thickness”, which is an imagi-
nary dimension. A virtual thickness of 1% of the element size 
was used in the analysis. An elastic-perfectly-plastic model, 
which is the same as its surrounding soil model (the Mohr-
Coulomb model), was used to model the behavior of soil-nail in-
terfaces. The elastic-perfectly-plastic interface model was used to 
make a distinction between elastic behavior, where small dis-
placements may take place within the interface, and the plastic 
behavior, when permanent slip may occur. Material properties 
for the interface element are identical to those used for its sur-
rounding soil elements, except that a strength reduction coeffi-
cient (Rinter) was used to define the strength parameters, i.e. cohe-
sion (cinter) and friction angle (φinter) of the soil-nail interface. The 
strength reduction coefficient (Rinter) is defined as  
soil
inter
soil
inter
inter tan
tan
c
cR φ
φ==                              (1) 
where csoil and φsoil are the cohesion and friction angle of the soils 
adjacent to the soil-nail interface.  Values of friction angle be-
tween soils and concrete walls where forms are used are 0.6φ to 
0.8φ (Bowles, 1996). A value of 0.67φ was considered reasonable 
and adopted as the friction angle for the soil-mortar interface, and 
Rinter value of 0.63 was used in the current study. 
 
Fig. 6 Finite element mesh of the hybrid embankment system pro-
posed. 
Table 1 Parameters used in the finite element analyses 
Backfill Existing ground Asphalt pavement Aggregate 
γt=19kN/m3
γdry=16kN/m3
c=10kPa 
φ=30° 
Es=50MPa 
ν=0.3 
γt=19kN/m3
γdry=16kN/m3
C=500kPa 
φ=35° 
Es=10000MPa 
ν=0.3 
γt=25kN/m3
γdry=23kN/m3
C=500kPa 
φ=0° 
Es=230MPa 
ν=0.28 
γt=19.5kN/m3
γdry=16.5kN/m3
c=10kPa 
φ=30° 
Es=70MPa 
ν=0.3 
Connecting 
elements 
Reinforcements
(geogrid) Soil nails  
EA=23560 kN
 
EA=500 kN EA=1.38×105 kN/m 
EI=7.29kN-m2/m 
ν=0.15 
Mp=1.71kN-m/m 
Np=277kN/m 
 
3.2  Modeling of reinforcements and connecting elements 
Three-node line elements with two translational degree of free-
dom in each node were used to simulate the behavior of rein-
forcements. Reinforcing elements can sustain only tensile forces 
and were modeled as elastic materials. The elastic axial stiffness 
(EA) is the only material parameter for the reinforcement and is 
entered in unit of force per unit width because the material is 
considerably thin in thickness. Normally, the axial stiffness of 
the reinforcement can be determined as the ratio of the applied 
force in the longitudinal direction to the elongation of the mate-
rial from the test of tensile strength if the plot of these two data is 
approximately in a linear relationship. A typical value of 
500kN/m was used as the axial stiffness of the geogrid material 
in the analysis. The tensile forces developed in the reinforce-
ments were checked to ensure the values are less than the ulti-
mate tensile strength of the material to justify the elastic model-
ing for reinforcements.  
Three-node line elements were also used to simulate the be-
havior of connecting elements, steel wire ropes and can develop 
only tensile forces. The steel wire rope, a discrete element, was 
modeled using an equivalent approach in 2-D finite element 
analyses, i.e. replacing the discrete element by an element ex-
tended to one unit width and keep EA value of the element un-
changed. Connecting elements are only used to transfer the 
stresses in reinforcements to soil nails, thus, no interface ele-
ments were installed for the connecting elements. Properties of 
 3
  
 
Fig. 10 Distribution of tensile forces developed in the nail with 
depth for a static loadings (20 kPa) at different locations. (a) 
maximum tensile force; (b) increment of maximum tensile force.
4.3 Under traffic loading  
Mechanical behavior of the hybrid reinforced embankment pro-
posed under traffic loading was analyzed. The traffic load of a 
single wheel on the roadway was simulated using a half-sine 
curve, as shown in Fig. 11. Illustration of a pair of wheel loads of 
a vehicle on the embankment is shown in Fig. 12. Speed and 
weight of the vehicle used in the analysis are 60km/hr and 20 
tons, respectively. For a single vehicle which weighs 20 tons, e.g. 
a heavy-weight truck, there are usually three sets of wheels. The 
traffic loads induced by three sets of wheel loads are applied on 
the roadway for a single vehicle, as shown in Fig. 11. The 
equivalent maximum amplitude of each wheel on the roadway at 
a unit width (1m) is 33.3kN/m. Time for a wheel to pass one-unit 
width of the embankment and time interval between front and 
back wheels depend on the speed of the vehicle. For a single ve-
hicle with a speed of 60 km/hr, time to pass one-unit width of the 
embankment is 0.06 second. Distance between the front wheels 
and the second wheels is presumed to be 1.5m. Time interval be-
tween the front and the 2nd wheels is 0.09 second. Traffic loads 
of a single vehicle and five consecutive vehicles on the roadway 
were simulated in the analyses.  
Stress distributions of the reinforcements, connecting elements, 
and nails in the embankment system due to a single vehicle and 
five consecutive vehicles on the roadway are shown in Figs. 12 
and 13, respectively. Pattern of the stress distributions due to 
traffic loading is similar to that under static loading. However, 
reinforcement stresses at upper levels of the embankment are no-
ticeably developed under traffic loading. Distribution of the 
maximum tensile forces developed in nails, occurring at its top, 
with depth under different traffic loadings is shown in Fig. 14(a). 
In addition, variation of the increment of maximum tensile force 
in nails induced by traffic loadings with depth is shown in Fig. 
14(b). Nails located above about two-third of the embankment 
height provide most of the resisting forces to stabilize the rein-
forced embankment. Thus, it is recommended install the nails at 
the upper level (approximately two-third of the height) of the 
embankment to ensure the effectiveness of the nails.  
 
 
Fig. 11 Using a half-sine curve to simulate traffic loads of ve-
hicle’s wheels (a single vehicle, 3 sets of wheels, 
speed=60km/hr). 
 
 
Fig. 12 Stress distribution of the reinforcements, connecting 
elements, and nails in a hybrid embankment under traffic load-
ing of a single vehicle. 
 
 
Fig. 13 Stress distribution of the reinforcements, connecting 
elements, and nails in a hybrid embankment under traffic load-
ing of five consecutive vehicles. 
 5
