 2
中文摘要 
本計畫以聲波操控方法進行主動式微流體和其中粒子的混合之研究。在此
計畫中，我們主要目標為以微製程技術發展具高效率混合功能的聲波操控微流體
元件模組，包括設計、製作與測試。計畫的主要特色為設計二維具碎形邊界條件
的微混合器觀念，利用高頻超音波駐波(standing  waves)所產生的幅射壓力
(radiation pressure)效應來移動粒子及變化流場。具體執行上，我們以黃光顯影製
程製作出所設計之微流體元件，建構實驗平台，再以壓電方式驅動晶片之混和槽
產生各種的超音波之駐波參數。接著並以具數十至數百奈米大小之粒子之流體作
為測試樣本，混以去離子水，分別從各自流道注入混合槽。結果顯示所設計和製
作的微流體元件得以有效地逹成混合之成果，粒子可於數秒鐘的時間均勻分布於
100nL體積大小的微混合槽內。  
 
關鍵字： 聲波駐波、微混合、壓電材料、微流體元件。 
 
 
 4
電動力(electrokinetics)、磁液動力(magnetohydronamics)和聲學(acoustic)等方式。
通常文獻中比較兩者的優缺點時，常認為主動式混合器要和微流體系統整合具困
難性及成本會變得很昂貴，而被動式混合器則具操作時的穩定性及易和微流體元
件整合。因此可發現不管是國內外有關微流體混合的研究，多數致力於被動式混
合器的探討，改變流道結構設計，比較其混合效率。然而，蓬勃的生醫微流體研
究若能早日朝向產業發展，以實體產品造福人群，相信是大家所樂見的。在文獻
的蒐集中所發現有趣的現象是醫療業者的兩大龍頭 Omron和Motorola卻展示主
動式的混合器為其研發的成果，由此觀之，主動式混合器必有其優勢。 
 
圖一  微混合器的分類 
的確，主動式的混合器可有多樣化功能，乃因在操作時有許多參數得以調
變，像是擾動頻率、相位和振幅，可使雷諾數做大幅度變化，具充份地混沌混合
的可行性。以下便針對有關的研究回顧之：以壓力場擾動來加強混合的，像是正
交脈波流式的微混合器（圖二(a)）已證明在三維結構中藉著叉入的分支流打斷
主流來達成混沌式的混合[6]。又如圖二(b)，Suzuki 和 Ho [7]使用產生磁場的電
導體整合在微混合器中，用來依序移動磁珠，改善混合的效率。至於熱擾動式的
混合，則可憑藉擴散係數受溫度大幅影響的原理，利用熱能來加強混合。像是
Mao et al [8]在許多平行的流道中產生線性的溫度梯度，用來研究溫度與螢光染
料的關係。 
(a)
(b) (c)
(e)(d)
 
圖二 各式主動式微混合器 
 6
下：流體 A (sample; 如大腸桿菌溶液)與流體 B(reagent;如螢光分子溶液)分別從
儲存區(reservoirs)流入微混合器(micromixer)中，超音波驅動啟動後，兩種流體（含
其中所含的微奈米/生化粒子）進行混合，混合機制則涵括微流體本身和粒子本
體的操控。 
Sample 
Reagent Micromixer
Detection area
Sorter
Chip cover 
Chip body 
Piezoelectric acoustic actuators 
(beneath the chip)
Piezoelectric acoustic 
actuators
Bubble generator
Chip body
Mixer region
Sorter region
 
圖四  聲波式混合器與分類器微流體元件模組示意圖：(左)上視圖；(右)背視圖。 
 
a) 超音波混合之理論分析 
聲波應用於生化上的檢測，利用直接輻射力(Direct radiation force)作用，的
聲波操控方式，已證明能有效增強生物粒子混合速率，為使其能運用在我們所研
發的微混合器，首先必須深入了解其理論。   
直接輻射力的成因在於（微）流體中的粒子受聲波駐波場作用下，聲波所施
予粒子的力量。一般而言，此力量可分為二：主要輻射力(Primary radiation force)
和粒子間的交互作用力(interparticle force)（亦稱作 Bjerknes force)，前者乃作用
於聲波傳遞之方向，而後者則作用於散射的入射波所造成之淨方向。以下分述其
原理。：主要輻射力由以下機制產生：透過壓電材料的做動於微流道，可在微流
道管壁造成聲波傳遞，並在特定操作頻率下，形成聲波駐波場。一般而言，若僅
考慮粒子的平面運動，其在聲波駐波場下所受的作用力，可以分解成軸向力(FAx)
跟橫向力(FTr)。若就一細長的管壁平行的微流道而言，大致上我們可視聲波的
產生為平面波，主要造成軸向力使粒子朝駐波節點移動的作用力；然而由於流體
的非均勻性及所產生的橫向力會使粒子側向移動而靠在一起(圖五)。 
 
圖五 粒子在聲波駐波場受力情形 
 8
 
2.利用光罩曝光，SU-8 100為負光阻，所
以曝光地方顯影後會留下。 
 3.利用 SU-8顯影液顯影。 
 
4.在另一片玻璃上旋轉塗佈 SU-8 25。 
 
5.利用 SU-8 25未凝固時，跟微流道做結
合。 
 
6. 最後在微混合區黏貼 PZT，進出口黏
貼管路。 
圖 1：主動式微混合器製程步驟 
 
   本文所設計的混合區光罩有三種，如圖 2所示。其個別尺寸大小，分別如圖 3。
將其分別稱為混合區一、混合區二、混合區三。 
 
圖 2 不同混合區光罩圖 
 
   
圖 3 不同混合區的實作結果照片 
 
3.2 實驗架設 
 我們先將製作完成的主動式混合器晶片放置於顯微鏡下，將壓電片電極兩端接
至功率放大器，將功率放大器接至訊號產生器。圖 4為實驗示意圖。圖 5為實驗
架設圖。圖 6為壓電片、訊號產生器、功率放大器圖。 爾後使用紫色廣告原料
混合於去離子水中，一邊入口注入上述溶液，另一編入口注入去離子水，兩溶液
SU-8 25 
UV光 
 10
0.5秒。圖 9-1為壓電片未驅動時。圖 9-2~圖 9-21為壓電片驅動後，頻率從 100kHz
於 10秒內線性上升至 1MHz間的變化，可以發現紫色廣告顏料有顯著的變化。
圖 9-22~9-32為壓電片驅動後頻率從 1MHz於 10秒內現性下降至 100kHz間 5.5
秒的變化。 
由實驗的結果顯示，我們所設計、製作的微流體元件，使用超音波駐波方式
操控微流體中的粒子，已可於數秒的時問內，有效地於數十 nL體積大小的微流
槽中，達成主動混合的效果。若貴會能進一步補助本實驗進行相關的研究，相信
會有許多更有價值的產出。 
圖 8 混合區一變化圖   圖 9 混合區三變化圖 
   
 
References: 
1. M. H. Oddy, J. G Santiago and J. C. Mikkelsen, Anal. Chem., 2001, 73(24), 
5822–5832. 
2. J. Branebjerg, P. Gravesen, J. P. Krog and C. R. Nielsen, presented at MEMS 
96, San Diego, CA, 1996. 
3. R. M. Moroney, R. M. White and R. T. Howe, presented at MEMS ‘95, The 
Netherlands, 1995. 
4. X. Zhu and E. S. Kim, Sens. Actuators, A, 1998, 66(1–3), 355–360. 
 12
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
                                   日期：98年 9 月 30 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：聲波驅動具可調控混合與分類機制的智慧型微流體元件
模組之研發與理論探討 
計畫主持人：馮國華 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-194-056   學門領域：熱流學門 
技術/創作名稱 聲波驅動微混合器技術 
發明人/創作人 馮國華 
中文： 
利用特殊的微混合槽之幾何形狀設計，使用壓電材料產生超音波之
駐波，可快速達成小體積液體混合的效果。 
技術說明 英文： 
An active-type fast, locally small volume mixing can be achieved 
effectively.  This is done by piezoelectric material generating acoustic 
standing waves and the novel geometrical designs of micromixers 
along with the microfabrication techniques. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
微流體元件、生化檢測晶片等。 
技術特點 
可於微流槽（~nL 體積）做快速混合的功能。 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 
貴單位研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 
中華民國力學學會第三十二屆全國力學會議                                   國立中正大學機械工程學系   97 年11 月28-29 日 
The 32nd National Conference on Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, November 28-29, 2008 
2.2 Interparticle force 原理 
Interparticle force(Bjerknes force)主要是粒子在聲
波駐波場下，波作用在各個粒子後發生散射現象所產生
的力，由於此力遠小於 primary radiation force，所以常
常被忽略，但在操控氣泡時則需用到此力，其方程式如
(1-2)所示： 
)](229
2)(2
)(246
)12cos3(2)(
[64)(
xp
d
wcww
xv
dw
wcaxBF
ββρ
ρ
θρρπ
−−
−−=
 (2-2) 
a ：radius of the particle 
d ：distance between the particles 
θ ：the angle between the centre line of the particles and 
the direction of  propagation of the incident acoustic 
wave 
)(xv ：the particle velocity amplitude 
)(xp ：the acoustic pressure amplitude 
 
2.3 粒子在聲波駐波場作用原理 
   粒子在聲波駐波場的作用下，隨著微流道的寬度不
同，其所需的基本共振頻率也不同。在微流道的基本共
振頻率( 2/λ )時，粒子聚集在微流道中間的一條直細
帶，如圖 2 所示；當其頻率( 2/*2 λ )時，粒子聚集在
微流道左右等距的兩條直細帶，如圖 2 所示；當其頻率
( 2/*3 λ )時，粒子聚集在微流道各線等距的三條直細
帶，如圖 2 所示，依此類推。 
 
 
 
圖 2：粒子在微流道共振頻率 2/λ 、 2/*2 λ 、 
         2/*3 λ 時作用情形[6]。 
 
3. 元件製作與實驗 
3.1 矽底材微流道元件設計 
由聲波駐波場操控粒子，必須選用傳遞聲波效果良
好的底材，矽晶圓傳遞聲波的效果比其他常用來製作微
流道的材料佳，如圖 3。但限於實驗儀器的因素，在矽
底材製作微流道是很浪費時間。 
 
 
圖 3 材料的物理性質表[5] 
 
    矽晶圓有特定的晶格方向，經由 KOH 濕式蝕刻
後，微流道會產生 的斜邊，而乾式蝕刻的蝕刻深
度太淺又耗時。所以採用斜 方式設計微流道，經由
KOH 濕式蝕刻後，達到我們所需的垂直流道壁，蝕刻
出微流道晶片，步驟如表 1矽底材微流道製程步驟。最
後經由 AB 膠黏合玻璃、PZT、管路，如表 2組合製程
步驟所示。 
°7.54
°45
 
表 1 矽底材微流道製程步驟 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.以Low Pressure 
Chemical Vapor 
Deposition(LPCVD)
沈積出低應力SixNy。
 
 
 
 
2.以旋轉塗佈機 
在晶圓背面旋轉塗
佈一層 AZ5214 光
阻。 
 
 
 
 
3.利用設計的微流
道光罩曝光之後，並
用顯影液 AZ400K
來顯影。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.利用 RIE 把 
SixNy層蝕刻掉，裸露
出Silicon層。 
 
 
5.丙酮、甲醇與去離
UV光
中華民國力學學會第三十二屆全國力學會議                                   國立中正大學機械工程學系   97 年11 月28-29 日 
The 32nd National Conference on Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, November 28-29, 2008 
    觀察顆粒為玻璃珠顆粒約 50~100 mμ ，流體為 DI
水，流道約 1.1 ，流道深約 250mm mμ 。結果顯示為
單一及雙行排列之玻璃珠顆粒，分別於操作頻率
635.9kHz 及 1.201MHz 發生，如表 4 所示。 
 
表 4 矽底材流道在聲波駐波場下的結果 
 
訊號產生器 
頻率：635.9kHz 
振幅：100mVpp 
射頻功率放大器 
電壓：17.8V 
 
 
 
 
訊號產生器 
頻率：1.201MHz 
振幅：500mVpp 
射頻功率放大器 
電壓：22.3V 
 
 
 
 
3.6 負光阻微流道實驗結果 
    觀察顆粒為玻璃珠顆粒約 50~100 mμ ，流體為 DI
水，流道約 500 mμ ，流道深約 150 mμ 。結果顯示為
單一及雙行排列之玻璃珠顆粒，分別於操作頻率
1.15MHz 及 2.3MHz 發生，如表 5 所示。 
 
表 5 負光阻微流道在聲波駐波場下的結果 
 
訊號產生器： 
頻率：1.15MHz 
振幅：100mVpp 
射頻功率放大器： 
電壓：15.1V 
 
 
 
 
訊號產生器： 
頻率：2.3MHz 
振幅：150mVpp 
射頻功率放大器： 
電壓：20.2V 
 
 
 
4. 結論 
在探討超音波控制粒子實驗，經由不同頻率的超音
波作用，粒子會產生不同的移動軌跡，愈靠近基本共振
頻率或其倍數時，粒子會慢慢從曲線變直線，在非基本
共振頻率時，粒子也會運動，但其運動軌跡沒有固定形
式。觀察中也發現在共振頻率時，有粒子會原地旋轉並
帶動其他粒子過來，目前本實驗室正探討其形成原因。
利用此技術，藉由設計不同的微流道晶片，可以產生很
多變化的效果，例如：細胞分離開關、不同大小細胞的
區分…等功能，所以這種方法不只可以運用在分離方
面，還可以藉由設計微流道的形狀來改變其功能。此技
術大都運用以矽製作微流道，主要是因為矽傳導聲波效
果佳，但矽的生物相容性差，所以如果能找到生物相容
性、傳導聲波效果佳的材質來製作微流道，相信未來在
生醫方面的應用一定大有進展。 
 
5.  致謝 
    本研究承蒙國科會支持，國科會計畫編號 NSC 
97-2221-E-194-056。以及中正大學機械所謝文馨教授生
醫熱流實驗室和國家奈米元件實驗室的協助，特誌謝
意。 
 
6. 參考文獻 
[1]  A. Nilsson, F. Petersson, , “A micro-particle     
    positioning techniquecombining an ultrasonic    
    manipulator anda microgripper,”J. Micromech.    
    Microeng. 16 (2006) 1562–1570 
 
[2]  S.Kapishnikov, V.Kantsler ,V.Steinberg, “ 
    Continuous particle size separation andsize sorting      
    using ultrasound in a microchannel,” J. Stat. Mech.   
    (2006) P01012 
 
[3]  H.Jonsson., C.Holm. , “ Particle Separation using 
Ultrasound [PARSUS] can Radically Reduce the 
Embolic Load to the Brain after Cardiac 
Surgery,”.Annals of Thoracic Surgery, 2004, 
78:1572-1578 
 
[4]  A. Nilsson, F. Petersson, H. Jonsson and T. Laurell  
    , “Acoustic Control of Suspended Particles in Micro 
Fluidic Chips,”Lab on a Chip., 2004, 4, 131-135 
 
[5]  A. Nilsson, F. Petersson, , “Chip integrated strategies 
for acoustic separation and manipulation of cells and 
particles,”.Chemical Society Reviews, 2007, 36, 
492-5061 
 
[6]  A. Nilsson, F. Petersson, H. Jonsson and T. Laurell , 
“Separation of lipids from blood utilizing ultrasonic 
standing waves in microfluidic channels,”Analyst, 
2004, 129, 938 - 943 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫編號 聲波驅動具可調控混合與分類機制的智慧型微流體元件模
組之研發與理論探討 
計畫名稱 97-2221-E-194-056- 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
馮國華 
中正大學機械工程學系 副教授 
會議時間地點 6/21-6/25,2009, Denver, Colorado, USA 
會議名稱 The 15th International conference on solid-state sensors, 
actuators,& Microsystems (Transducers 2009) 
發表論文題目 1. An eyeball-like biconvex/meniscus lens optical system 
with fluidic-controlled focus for tunable lens applications 
2. Development of 3D 4-electrode IPMC actuator with 
accurate omnidirectional control ability for 
microendoscopic surgical application 
一、 參加會議經過 
第十五屆 Transducer 國際會議是個在微奈米製程、微流體、微機電、微感
測器、生化檢測等領域，廣為人知且重要的國際會議。每二年舉辦一次，今年六
月下旬於美國丹佛的 Sheraton Hotel 舉行。這一次的會議計有 220 篇 oral 
presentation論文，380 篇 post presentation 論文發表，與會人數達千人。
而論文的接受率僅為 45%左右，故能獲選的論文均具有相當的水準。 
由於國內未有飛機直飛丹佛，本人選擇搭乘於美國聯合航空經日本至洛杉
磯，再搭美國國內線班機前往丹佛，整個飛行時間、班機誤點及待機時間超過
24 小時，是一段相當遙遠的旅程。 
主辦單位於此次的會議中特別邀請了 12 位不同領域的著名學者分別於週
二至四的上午開場時段進行演講，內容相當豐富且精闢，使本人收穫良多。像是
Imperial College London (UK) 的 Prof. de Mello談到的在微流體中的光學偵測、
東京大學的 Prof. Shimoyama 所述的MEMS在機械人方面的應用，以及 Prof. Wu 
的光鉗的開發都令我留下深刻的印象，。 
個人於本次會議中有二篇文章的發表，一篇為口頭報告，一篇則為海報發
表。前者的時間排定為週四下午，雖接近會議結束時段，然而台下聽演講之人仍
有近百人之多，其中不乏許多知名學者。海報發表的時間為週三下午，許多所作
相關研究人士前來交換意見，包括韓國及法國等學者，亦提供了許多寶貴的建
議，相當值得未來的研究參考。 
本會議雖參與人數眾多，發表文章數量亦不少，然整個會議流程順暢，安排
得井然有序，且每個 session 所選的文章的亦極有關聯性，足見其事前的妥善規
AN EYEBALL-LIKE BICONVEX/MENISCUS LENS OPTICAL SYSTEM WITH 
FLUIDIC-CONTROLLED FOCUS FOR TUNABLE LENS APPLICATIONS 
 
Guo-Hua Feng* and Yu-Chin Chou 
Department of Mechanical Engineering  
National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
This paper presents a novel eyeball-like fluidic lens 
system composed of a flexible meniscus lens and a 
deformable biconvex lens components, between which is a 
chamber that can be filled with pressurized water for 
controlled deformation and focusing of the compound 
structure. The novel fabrication process is detailed. The 
fabricated fluidic lens system is used to project test images 
on a CCD chip. Reasonably good optical performance is 
obtained. 
 
KEYWORDS 
Meniscus lens, biconvex lens, tunable focus, ZEMAX 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Recent research on tunable focus lenses has attracted 
attention due to the possibility of making lighter, simpler 
and more compact optical devices in a large variety of 
application areas, such as mobile phones, security camera, 
surgical instruments, and vertical scanners [1, 2].  
Conventional zoom lens systems require several lenses to 
move back and forth to magnify the image. This could be 
troublesome for a small packaged camera because of 
running out of room for zooming.   Therefore, developing 
variable focus lenses with necessary optical functions with 
no mechanical transmission elements for meeting the 
increasing demand of optical market is significant.   
Existing tunable lens studies mainly include: liquid lens 
with tuning focus either by electrowetting [3] or adjusting 
the liquid pressure of the lens chamber [4].  The former case 
usually requires a relatively high voltage (~100V), and 
constructing a larger aperture electrowetting lens is still 
challenging.  The latter case often shows reliable tunable 
results, but the operating system for tuning is elaborate.  
Besides, liquid-crystal lenses are another type tuning lens 
focusing light based on refractive index change [5], but the 
quality performance is typically not as good as liquid 
lenses.  Among the literature of fluidic controlled adaptive 
lens, Zhang et al. reports the one-side deformable lens 
module composed of a 60µm thick planar PDMS 
membrane and the other side being thin glass [6].  A 
microlens system with double side planar PDMS 
membranes is presented as being able to work either in a 
double convex or a double concave modes [7].  Actuating 
the liquid with variable refractive index and rigid molded 
microlens arrays is demonstrated to be possible when 
tuning the focus [8].  Besides, fluid redistribution can also 
be initiated mechanically to produce variable lenses [9, 10]. 
Although controlled injection of fluid into chambers 
with deformable planar polymer membranes to form a 
tunable focus lens is not new, such methods usually form 
spherical shapes of varying radii, thus, invariably producing 
distortion and spherical aberration.  Differing from 
common planar flexible membranes, we introduce a 
fluidic-controlled meniscus/biconvex lens system (Fig. 1), 
including a novel fabrication method to make flexible 
meniscus and biconvex shaped lens.  The related detailed 
fabrication of lens modules, experimental setup of the 
optical lens system, and the imaging results as well as 
numerical analysis are described below. 
 
 
Figure1: Implementation of the fluidic-controlled focus-tunable 
lens module. 
 
FABRICATION OF LENS MODULE 
Novel convex/meniscus lens fabrication 
The fabrication process (Fig. 2) starts by selecting the 
diameter of a stainless steel ball and placing it on a PDMS 
substrate in a container. Liquid PDMS is added so the ball is 
partially immersed. Due to various surface tension effects, 
the liquid PDMS climbs partway up the side of the ball. 
After PDMS solidification, the ball is removed, leaving a 
semi-hemispherical mold with a peripheral border higher 
than the surrounding surface. Further liquid PDMS is added 
outside the mold border until the level of the outside region 
equals the peripheral border, creating a flat surface 
surrounding a semi-hemispherical mold (Fig. 2(c)). Next, a 
50µm-thick PDMS flat membrane is attached over the 
general region of the mold, forming the chamber in Fig 2(d). 
A needle is inserted from beneath and the chamber is 
evacuated, deforming the flat membrane to fit the mold (Fig. 
978-1-4244-4193-8/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE Transducers 2009, Denver, CO, USA, June 21-25, 20092082
W3P.084
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chung Cheng University. Downloaded on October 15, 2009 at 22:30 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
motor and associated mechanism to change relative 
distances among solid lenses.  Therefore, a common-use 
CCD chip disassembled from a webcam (Manufactured by 
Logitech Corp., Model: QuickCam Communicate Deluxe, 
1.3 Mega Pixels, size: 3.74 mm x 3.24 mm) is applied to 
capture images in our experimental setup, and through the 
webcam’s data processing circuitry, the obtained images 
can be directly shown on the computer screen.  The CCD 
chip is mounted on the backside of the lens module with a 
fixed gap (3.92 mm in this case) according to the ZEMAX 
software simulation. A micromachined 1.5mm-diameter 
aperture chip is attached to the front surface of the lens 
module.  The thin, smooth-edge aperture chip is made by 
SU-8 with a photolithography process, followed by painting 
black color so unwanted light can be fully blocked. The 
resulting aperture chip/lens module/CCD assembly is 
enclosed with a darkroom made by black acrylic so the 
CCD collected light is only passing through the aperture 
and can be modulated by the developed lens module. 
Therefore, exploiting this experimental setup, the 
assembled aperture chip/ fluidic-controlled lens module 
directly tunes the light from the observing objects and then 
CCD captures images shown on a computer, without 
utilizing extra solid lens or optical devices. 
To measure the tunablility of the developed 
fluidic-controlled meniscus/biconvex lens optical system, 
the object surface marked with “National Chung Cheng 
University” is mounted on a sliding rail in front of the lens 
module and can be freely adjusted the length between the 
lens and the object (Fig. 5).   
It is found that focus is easily tuned by adjusting the 
liquid pressure. Figure 6 shows images of the same object at 
different distances, with the liquid pressure adjusted for 
optimal focus at that distance. 
 
 
Figure 5: Experimental setup of the lens optical system with 
fluidic controlled focus for tunable lens.   
 
 
Figure 6: Experimental results confirm tunable- focus function by 
adjusting liquid pressure ((a):0 Pa; (b):1000Pa; (c) 2000Pa; (d) 
3000Pa; (e) 4000Pa; (f) 5000Pa) in the lens module. 
 
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS OF LENS OPTICAL 
SYSTEM 
ZEMAX software is used here to quantitatively analyze 
the quality of test images. In this paper, two major 
performances are simulated: relative illumination and 
distortion.  Relative illustration is the ratio of edge 
illumination to center illumination on image plane.  
Generally speaking, it is better to have illumination greater 
than 60% for good image quality.  Distortion is an index to 
represent the height (length) difference between the 
captured image and the real object, which is defined as 
distortion = (image height – ideal height)/ (ideal height) x 
100%.   
Figure 7 shows the simulation results based on the 
previous experimental conditions with different fluidic 
pressure levels inside the chamber of the lens module.  To 
perform the numerical calculation, finite element analysis 
(ANSYS software) is initially employed to find the 
corresponding deformation of meniscus and biconvex 
lenses under different uniformly distributed pressures (0, 
1kPa, 2kPa, 3kPa, 4kPa, and 5kPa).  Then, the ensuing 
deformed shapes of flexible lenses can find their 
corresponding fitting curve equations.  Subsequently, we 
substitute the acquired coefficients for the curve-fitting 
equations into ZEMAX software to establish the aperture 
chip/lens module/CCD assembly model, and then calculate 
the relative illumination and distortion performances. 
Figure 7(a) shows the distortion results.  The trend 
indicates the distortion value increases when the chamber 
pressure increases and the imaging region gradually moves 
away from the center of CCD chip.  However, interestingly, 
2084
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chung Cheng University. Downloaded on October 15, 2009 at 22:30 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
DEVELOPMENT OF 3D 4-ELECTRODE IPMC ACTUATOR WITH ACCURATE 
OMNIDIRECTIONAL CONTROL ABILITY FOR MICROENDOSCOPIC SURGICAL 
APPLICATION 
 
Guo-Hua Feng* and Jeng-Wei Tsai 
Department of Mechanical Enginering  
National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
This paper presents a novel three-dimensional (3D) 
four-electrode Ion Polymer Metal Composite (IPMC) 
actuator with accurate omnidirectional control capability. 
The developed 3D IPMC transducer is used to enclose a 
section of optical fiber, thereby allowing electronic 
directional control of conducted laser light. This could be 
useful in applications such as microendoscopic ocular 
surgery.   
The fabricated device with the IPMC actuator 
dimension of 5mm x 2mm x 1 mm shows that it could reach 
a displacement of 400µm in the direction perpendicular to 
the electrode surface when a square wave of 9 volts is 
applied. A threshold voltage about 4 volts is found during 
actuation for the fabricated transducer.  Besides, the 
transducer moving along a direction which is not 
perpendicular to the electrode surface is also demonstrated. 
The result shows that a displacement of 275µm can be 
reached when a sinusoid wave of 9 volts is applied, and the 
angle maintains a near constant value for varied operating 
frequencies.  
 
KEYWORDS 
Fiber, composite, three-dimensional, electrodes  
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
In recent years Ionic polymer-metal composites 
(IPMCs) have been broadly studied as biomimic 
transducers because of their promising biomechanical and 
biomimetic applications [1]. IPMC materials exhibit large 
dynamic deformation under time-varying electric fields and 
show great potential as soft robotic actuators, artificial 
muscles and dynamic sensors. Conventionally three major 
fabrication steps involved in IPMC preparation processes: 
the ionic polymer formation, initial compositing process 
and surface electroding process. After these processes 
finished, the individual IPMC devices are diced    according 
to designed shapes from the large sheet with sandwiched 
metal/ionomer/metal structure [2]. Therefore, an IPMC 
transducer is composed of a thin backbone ionomer that is 
chemically plated on both front and back surfaces with 
noble metal to act as a pair of electrodes. The resulting 
metal/ionomer/metal sandwich is then treated with an 
appropriate amount of cations to balance the negative 
charges of the anions bonded to the backbone polymer [3].  
The response of an IPMC transducer depends on the 
nature of the backbone polymer, the structure of the 
electrodes, the ions and the level of hydration [4]. Figure 1 
illustrates the underlying principle of IPMC transduction 
[5]. Varying the external field modulates the deformation. 
IPMCs depend strongly on water content (hydration) of the 
ionomer for ionic mobility and effective actuation. IPMCs 
therefore work best in humid environments or when 
properly encapsulated. For instance, considerable 
performance improvement of an IPMC actuator by coating 
with parylene thin film is reported [6].   
As for the applications of IPMC transducers, we 
recently report to use ionic polymer material and 
micromachining technology to make arbitrary shaped 
mIPMC transducers [7].  Through the innovative fabrication 
concept, the micro feature sized devices can be accurately 
shaped without knife cutting or laser burning.  The 
fabricated mIPMC transducer also demonstrates the 
characteristics of its tiny accurately motion controllability 
for surgical applications.  Besides that, most present IPMC 
research focuses on manufacturing planar transducers using 
purchased ionic polymer sheet with front and back chemical 
plating of noble metal to act as an electrode pair. The 
motion of such fabricated devices during driving is only 
along a straight line perpendicular to the electrode surface.   
In this paper we use a state-of-the-art fabrication 
process to make a 3D 4-electrode IPMC tranducer which 
encloses a section of optical fiber for control of the direction 
of the optical fiber.  This device can be useful in 
applications such as microendoscopic ocular surgery (Fig. 
2).   
 
Figure 1: Illustration of working principle of an IPMC transducer: 
(Left) No voltage is applied; (Right) Applied voltage causes 
IPMC bending. 
978-1-4244-4193-8/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE Transducers 2009, Denver, CO, USA, June 21-25, 20092393
Th3E.003
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chung Cheng University. Downloaded on October 15, 2009 at 22:31 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
(Fig. 6(a) and (b)) are used for securing the devices. 
Trimmed conductive copper tapes are applied to both 
fixtures so that the can serve as the electrodes to transmit 
the actuating signals from the electrical power sources to 
the fabricated transducers. 
 
 
 
Figure 5: (a)Photoresist is applied to the Nafion device. 
(b)Fabricated 3D 4-electrodesIPMC  transducer 
 
 
Figure 6: Experimental setup for device characterization. Signals 
applied to (a) top-bottom electrode pair and both side electrode 
pair. (b)top-side electrode pair. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
Figure 7-9 shows the relationship between the 
measured displacements/angles and different electrical 
inputs. The device of IPMC portion with the dimension of 
5mm x 2mm x 1mm is tested. Omni-directional motion 
capabilities are demonstrated by selective activation of 
various combinations of the electrode pairs. Experimental 
data verifies that square wave actuation produces larger 
displacement compared with sinusoid wave actuation for a 
given driving frequency. Maximum displacement at the 
front end of the fabricated IPMC could reach 400µm, 
270µm and 275µm for actuating signal application to the 
top-bottom electrode pair, side-side electrode pair and 
top-side electrode pair, respectively.  
Results indicate that threshold voltages about 4 volts 
exist for transducer motion, probably because the inserted 
optical fiber increases the transducer stiffness, which causes 
certain amount of electrical power required to bend the 
device. The transducer also displays a nonlinear 
relationship between maximum displacement and actuation 
frequency, with lower operating frequencies resulting in 
larger displacement.   
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Displacement  vs. applied voltage (0.1Hz). Left: signal 
applied to top-bottom electrodes. Right: signal applied to both 
side-electrode pair (Ref. Fig. 6(a)). 
2395
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chung Cheng University. Downloaded on October 15, 2009 at 22:31 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
