效果自評 
 
研究內容與原計畫相符程度 超前 
達成預期目標情形 已達成 
研究成果之學術或應用價值 1. Shih-Yi Yuan, Chi-Feng Yang, Etienne Sicard, 
Chiu-Kuo Chen, Shry-Sann Liao “EMI Prediction 
Under Different Program Behavior” appear in 
2007 IEEE International Symposium on 
Electromagnetic Compatibility, Honolulu, Hawaii 
USA,Published. (附件二) 
2. Shih-Yi Yuan, Chi-Feng Yang, “Dynamic Conduct 
Emission Prediction For Program Behavior By 
Filter Bank,” appear in EMTS 2007 International 
Symposium  on Electromagnetic Theory, Ottawa, 
ON, Canada,Accepted. (附件三) 
3. 楊棋峯, “微控制器電源取得與 EMI 行為模型化
之研究,” 逢甲大學通訊工程系碩士論文, July 
2007. (附件四) 
4. 羅嘉文, “應用於 EMI 之 PIC 電路建模技術,” 逢
甲大學通訊工程系碩士論文, July 2007. (附件五)
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 是 
主要發現或其他有關價值 近年來手持式系統越來越普遍，穩定性與續航力都是
重要的議題，藉由研發無線感測之電源收割技術，發
現電源對於嵌入式系統的重要性，不僅對於嵌入式系
統電源取得方法做探討，研發新型的電力取得方法，
進而針對電源穩定度部分深入探討。 
故本次研究討論電源取得與電源穩定度兩部份。 
除了以往的電力來源外，本研究發展了新型態之發電
器以提供電力來源。本發電器可以利用自然產生之晃
動力來產生電源，如果將其裝置運用於海上或是其他
 出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 95-2221-E-035-067- 
計畫名稱 無線感測之電源收割技術研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 袁世一 通訊工程系 職稱：助理教授 
會議時間地點 七月八日至七月十三日 地點於夏威夷 
會議名稱 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Electromagnetic Compatibility 
發表論文題目 EMI Prediction Under Different Program Behavior 
 
一、參加會議經過 
過程一：電磁相容專題討論 
每年 EMC 的主題都相當多，傳統的部份，大都著重在修訂的層次上，使量測方法具有一致
性，量測結果具重現性等，而在新的議題方面，影響較大的為電路板的 EMI 量測及其軟體
模擬。 
這次的研討會，不論是在論文方面或展覽的內容方面，有關電腦的 EMC 模擬與應用，所佔
的比例比以往增加了許多，尤其是展出的軟體成品中，除了過去的軟體公司以外，還包括許
多知名的製造公司，例如美國的 IBM 及日本的 NEC 也紛紛加入這個戰場，就目前展出的
成品中，較成熟的測試設備，大部份還停留在電路板上的層級，至於在 IC 的量測方面，可
能是因為樣品的取得不易，因此還沒有突出的產品出現。 
 
過程二：論文發表 
此行參加 EMC 研討會除參加論文發表外，最重要的當然是要了解整個 EMC 的國際動向，
並將今年研討會重要議題（IC EMC 與 Modeling） 
分述如後： 
一、 EM Modeling I 
Patch Antenna Modeling Issues Using Connercial Software 
William O. Coburn, Canh Ly and Steven Weiss 
EMI Analysis of a GSM 900MHz Antenna for Large Wind Turbine Hub with 
Method-of-Moments 
B. Lewke, J. Kindersberger and F. Krug 
Predicting Electromagnetic Coupling between HF, VHF and UHF Antennas using NEC 
Patrick Perini and William Duff 
EMI Predicting Under Different Program Behavior 
Shih-Yi Yuan, Chi-Feng Yang, E Sicard, Chiu-Kuo Chen and Shry-Sann Liao 
 
二、 EM Modeling II 
Measurement of a Point Source Radiator Using Magnetic and Electric Probes and 
Application to Silicon Design of Clock Devices  
Kevin Slattery, Kevin Daniel and Xiaopeng Dong Efficient Low-Frequency Modal Analysis of Anechoic Chamber  
Ignacio Monterde, Luis Nuno, Juan Vicente Balbastre and Fernando Nino Calculation of the 
H-Plane Pattern Influence to the Site VSWR Result using the Monte Carlo Method  
附件一 
 EMI Prediction Under Different Program Behavior 
Shih-Yi Yuan1, Chi-Feng Yang1, Etienne Sicard2, Chiu-Kuo Chen3, Shry-Sann Liao4 
 
1Communications 
Engineering Dept., 
Feng Chia University, 
Taichung, Taiwan 
2Department of 
Electrical and 
Computer Engineering, 
INSA, 
Toulouse, France 
3Bureau of Standards, 
Metrology and 
Inspection, 
M.O.E.A, 
Taipei, Taiwan 
4IC-EMC center, 
Feng Chia University, 
Taichung, Taiwan 
 
syyuan@fcu.edu.tw, speaker0217@gmail.com, etienne.sicard@insa-toulouse.fr, chukuo.chen@bsmi.gov.tw, ssliao@fcu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract—this paper discusses the estimation, measurement, and 
prediction on the EMI behaviors of a simple PIC controller 
under different program considerations. Using the “instruction 
current” concept, this work can predict, in time domain, very 
accurate current behavior of the conduct emission. This paper 
also propose a way to modify ICEM [1] model to achieve a good 
prediction of the impact of EMI by different program behavior. 
Prediction improvement can be done if considering further on 
other effects. The kind of effects can also be applied into the 
adapted ICEM model with further studies. This work will be of 
great help to reduce parasitic emission by SW technology and 
may propose another dimension of techniques for 
embedded-system software design, software design methodology, 
driver design, and compiler optimization. 
key words: ICEM model, SW-EMC behavior prediction 
 INTRODUCTION  
Technology and market trends leads to smaller feature 
sizes and demands much more functions in one product which 
causes higher system clock frequencies and more transistors 
being combined into one die. The ITRS roadmap [2] predicts 
the growing challenges for EMC-confirm design of future 
systems: by the year 2007, 45nm CMOS process will be made 
available for mass production, operating frequency near 
10GHz, and the size of IC will achieve one billion transistors. 
It is well known that dynamic switching currents of supply 
lines on the silicon die are the main sources for conducted 
electromagnetic emission which causes the system application 
board to radiate parasitic emission. On-chip clock systems 
have the highest switching frequency and thus offer the highest 
switching currents to the supply system. In high performance 
micro-controllers, clock rates are steadily increasing, forcing 
rise and fall times to decrease and clocking to be made 
strongly synchronous all over the chip. A goal known as "zero 
clock skew" for increasing timing budgets should be achieved 
for nowadays IC designers. Today's IC design tools support 
this trend. However, for reducing electromagnetic emission, 
clock smearing is recommended. The resulting effect is 
comparable with a spread-spectrum clock, meaning that the 
high emission amplitudes at discrete frequencies decrease.  
There are several noise reduction techniques have been 
proposed, for example, the Inductor cancellation[4], data 
encoding for EMI suppression[5], shielding[6, 7], and core 
supply reduction. 
Although the reduction of core supply voltage can reduce 
emission, the benefit is compensated by a drastically increased 
number of simultaneously switching transistors per die, 
combined with the faster switching edges due to increasing 
clock rates. A comparison between 16-bit and 32-bit 
micro-controller current waveforms is given in [1]. The peak 
currents may be as high as 10 to 100A in the latest generation 
of high performance microprocessor. 
Microcontrollers are widely used in consumer electronics 
and automotive electronics where the EMC constraints are 
very severe. Generally, a digital circuit includes some standard 
parts for it to operate: micro-controller(s) process instructions, 
memories store instructions and useful data for 
micro-controller fetching, and I/O channels communicate with 
the environment it surrounds. Traditional EMI measurement 
methods require long time to do a detail analysis for a design. 
However, in the modern world, varieties of applications are 
usually implemented by the same kind of hardware only with 
different software(s). It is obvious that software will change 
the total digital circuit behavior in a matter of milliseconds or 
even faster. By the invention of the timesharing operation 
system, the EMI behavior of the total system can be very 
tricky for estimation not to mention how to do a rough EMI 
modelization. 
In EMI measurement standards, software that makes 
system to work is basically an infinite loop [8]. These setups 
are good for long time detail EMI analysis but not practical. In 
this paper, EMI measurement based on different program 
behavior are observed. We will begin by some infinite loop 
measurements as the EMI measurement standards suggested. 
Using the measured data as a model building process, we try to 
estimate another infinite loop EMI behavior by this model and 
comparing with the new measured data. This work can be 
extended to practical software EMI prediction. 
Based on this work, some software design approaches 
overcoming or at least partially compensating some parasitic 
emission noise effects caused by fast simultaneous switching 
are principally proposed. To the best of our knowledge, this 
work is the first observation and prediction on the EMI 
phenomena of software behavior. The observation and primary 
prediction techniques are proposed in the hope that this work 
will propose another dimension of techniques for 
embedded-system software design, software design 
methodology, driver code design, and compiler optimization. 
附件二 
  
Figure 2a : Measurement time domain result of different programs 
 
Figure 2b : Zoom of Figure 2a 
 
 
Prog4 is the mixing of prog1, 2, and 3. We build an 
EMI model based on the first 3 programs, then use prog4 as a 
model verification test. Since prog4 is the mixing of the first 
three programs, we can predict prog4 EMI behavior by the 
proposed model and verify them with the measurement. 
The measurement of these 4 programs is shown in 
figure 2. There are some differences at time-domain 
measurement results (see figure 2b, the partial zooming of 2a). 
There are differences between instructions both the amplitude 
and rising/falling time. We can differentiate different 
instructions by waveform patterns. We will use some of this 
information to build our EMC model. At frequency domain, 
due to the waveforms are based on multiple clock waveform 
behavior, there are no such obvious difference at low 
frequency. However, minor differences at high frequency 
(>100MHz) are observed which will be mentioned in section 
IV. 
 
MODELING THE PROGRAM BEHAVIOR 
The proposed model is based on the ICEM model [1]. 
ICEM model has been successfully used to model the 
parasitic emission for many micro-controllers, ASICs, and 
programmable devices, within the range 1MHz-2GHz. The 
model consists of some core activity evaluators to translate 
the IC specification into a noise source and a decoupling 
network, other parameters represents IBIS model and external 
circuit model.  
We first describe the modification of ICEM model 
adapting to different program behaviors in 3.1. The PIC 
program’s ICEM model building is detailed in 3.2 and how to 
estimate some important parameters (i.e. instruction current) 
in 3.3. 
 
 
 
 
 
V 
V 
 
 
 
Figure 5a. Instruction Current Measurement and waveform fitting of Prog1 
 
Figure 5b. Instruction Current Measurement and waveform fitting of Prog2 
 
Figure 5c. Instruction Current Measurement and waveform fitting of Prog3 
V
V
V
  
Prog1 through prog3 is the model building current 
fitting data. The MSE and deviation in table 3 shows this 
work can predict the time domain gross transient behavior of 
different program within an acceptable range. The final 
prediction of prog4 is good – the MSE and deviation lies in 
the range of the same range as prog1 through prog3. 
However, the predicted frequency response is not so 
good (figure 7). There is a large mismatch begin at about 
90MHz which may lead to a lot work to do in the future. Due 
to the slow clock rate of PIC (4MHz), 90MHz is “high 
frequency” range and need more careful model building 
process in the future. 
This work can be easily extended to practical software 
EMI prediction, if measure all instruction currents and 
implement these instruction currents by proper order. 
CONCLUSION  
This paper has discussed the estimation, measurement, 
and prediction on the behaviors of simple PIC controller 
under different program consideration. Using the 
“instruction current” concept, this work can predict, in time 
domain, very similar current behavior of the measured 
conduct emission. However, in frequency domain, 
“instruction current” model is not very accurate at high 
frequency (overestimating).  
This paper also proposed a way to modify ICEM model 
to adapt to a good estimation and prediction on the impact of 
EMI by different program behavior. Prediction improvement 
could be done if considering further on other effects. These 
effects can also be applied into the adapted ICEM model 
with further studies. 
To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first 
observation and prediction on the EMI phenomena of 
software behavior. This work would be of great help to 
reduce parasitic emission by SW technology and may 
propose another dimension of techniques for 
embedded-system software design, software design 
methodology, driver design, and compiler optimization. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This paper was produced with Government support under 
Contract Number NSC-95-2221-E-035-067 awarded by the 
National Science Council Taiwan. 
REFERENCES 
Etienne Sicard and Gilles Peres, "A Novel Software Environment for 
Predicting the parasitic Emission of Integrated Circuits," EMC 2005, 
Vol. 3, pp. vii- xix. 
ITRS information can be downloaded from http://itrs.public.org 
PIC12F629 specification can be downloaded from 
http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/DeviceDoc/41190c.pdf 
Shuo Wang, Fred C. Lee, and Jacobus Daniel van Wyk, "Design of Inductor 
Winding Capacitance cancellation for EMI suppression," IEEE Trans. 
on Power Electronics, Vol. 21, No. 6, 2006, pp. 1825-1832. 
Jaejin Park, Ruifeng Sun, L. Richard Carley, and C. partrick Yue, "A 
10-Gbps, 8-PAM Parallel Interface with Crosstalk Cancellation for 
Future Hard Disk Drive Channel ICs," ISCAS 2005, Vol. 2, pp. 1162- 
1165. 
David G. Wang James L. Knighten, and P. Keith Muller"An Integrated Vent, 
Heatsink and EMI Shield," 8th IEEE symposium on Semiconductor 
Thermal Measurement and Management, 2002, pp. 125 - 131. 
C. Wang, J. L. Drewniak, J. L. Knighten, D. Wang, R. Alexander, and D. M. 
Hockanson, "Grounding of heatpipe/heatspreader and heatsink 
structures for EMI mitigation," IEEE International Symposium on 
Electromagnetic Compatibility, 2001. Vol. 2, 2001, pp. 916 - 920. 
IEC 61967 information can be founded from http://www.iec.ch/index.html 
S. Ben Dhia, M. Ramdani & E. Sicard , “EMC of ICs: Techniques for low 
emission and susceptibility”, Springer.
 
Figure 7. The estimated and measured frequency 
response 
 III. MODELING THE PROGRAM BEHAVIOR 
The proposed dynamic EMI model is show in Figure 2. This model includes set of 
“instruction current” sources [6], a Filter Bank Transfer function and a dynamic simulation 
output response. The instruction current can be derived from [6]. The Filter Bank transfer 
Function building steps are detailed after Figure 2. We use the Filter Bank to approximate 
instruction current response of the conduct emission in frequency domain. The simulation 
environment is built on simulink. 
The flow chart of Filter Bank building steps is shown in Figure 3. 
Figure 2. Dynamic EMI Model Figure 3. Design flow chart of Filter Bank  
 
The Filter Bank building steps are: 
1. Measurement 
Measure every prog of the conduct emission in Time and frequency domain on the 
testing PIC board to get the real response. 
2. Presumably instruction current source derived from [6]. 
3. Make Filter Bank prototype 
The Filter Bank has a transfer function that amplitude is given by  
Input
Output
fT =)(  , Where input is get from step 2 and output is the 
measurement from step 1. 
Thus, We can build the Filter Bank prototype. We can easily get the impulse 
response that helps us to implement the filter bank at step 4. 
4. Implement Filter Bank 
Multiple of Low pass, Band pass and High pass filters are jointed to approximate 
filter bank’s prototype of step 3. 
 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULT 
Measurement setups are detailed in [6]. Dynamic EMI model building process is described 
in section 3. The predicted waveforms are very similar to the measurement. The measurement 
and simulation spectra of each program is shown in figure 4.  
The MSE (mean square error) between the measurement and prediction is show in Table 
3.Prog1 through prog3 is used in the Filter Bank model building processes. The MSE and 
deviation in Table 2 shows this work can predict the dynamic EMI behavior of different 
program within an acceptable range. The final prediction of prog4 is good – the MSE lies is 
about the same range as prog1 through prog3.This work can be easily extended to any 
practical software EMI prediction, if measure all instruction currents and implement these 
instruction currents by proper order. 
 
 
 
 Table 2. Dynamic EMI prediction MSE  Prog1 Prog2 Prog3 Prog4 
MSE 0.00104 0.00103 0.00103 0.00098 
Instruction 
current sources 
Filter Bank 
T(f) 
Simulation 
conduct 
emission Measurement 
From testing 
PIC Board Conduct 
emission in 
Time domain
Conduct 
emission in 
frequency
Presumedly 
current 
Make 
FilterBank 
prototype 
Filter Bank  
High 
pass 
Band 
pass
Low 
pass
OutpuInp
  
微控制器電源取得與EMI行為模型化
之研究 
Microcontroller Power Grab and EMI 
Behavior Modeling 
 
摘要 
電力消耗對嵌入式系統非常重要。本論文討論電源取得與電源穩定度兩部份。在電
源取得部分已經完成實作了一個晃動發電器，利用自然環境中晃動的力量來取得電力。
在另一部份，本文針對了簡單的PIC微控制器在不同程式下的估計、量測與預測。利用”
指令電流”的概念，可以非常接近預測的時域電磁傳導干擾。本文也提出一些方法來改
進ICEM模型，讓其能夠達到對於不同行為程式對EMI的影響有更好的預測。 
 
Abstract 
Power consumption is very important to embedded system. This paper discusses power 
grabbing and power stability. In power grabbing, we make a shaking generator that uses 
nature swing force to generate power. This paper also discusses the estimation, measurement, 
and prediction on the behaviors of a simple PIC controller under different program 
considerations. Using the “instruction current” concept, this work can predict, in time domain, 
very similar current behavior of the conduct emission. This paper also proposes a way to 
modify ICEM model to achieve a good prediction of the impact of EMI by different program 
behavior.  
附件四 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 95-2221-E-035-067- 
計畫名稱 無線感測之電源收割技術研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
袁世一 通訊工程系 職稱：助理教授 
會議時間地點 七月八日至七月十三日 地點於夏威夷 
會議名稱 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Electromagnetic Compatibility 
發表論文題目 EMI Prediction Under Different Program Behavior 
 
一、參加會議經過 
過程一：電磁相容專題討論 
每年 EMC 的主題都相當多，傳統的部份，大都著重在修訂的層次上，使量測方法
具有一致性，量測結果具重現性等，而在新的議題方面，影響較大的為電路板的 EMI 
量測及其軟體模擬。 
這次的研討會，不論是在論文方面或展覽的內容方面，有關電腦的 EMC 模擬與應
用，所佔的比例比以往增加了許多，尤其是展出的軟體成品中，除了過去的軟體公
司以外，還包括許多知名的製造公司，例如美國的 IBM 及日本的 NEC 也紛紛加入
這個戰場，看起來是越來越熱鬧了，就目前展出的成品中，較成熟的測試設備，大
部份還停留在電路板上的層級，至於在 IC 的量測方面，可能是因為樣品的取得不
易，因此還沒有突出的產品出現。 
 
過程二：論文發表 
此行參加 EMC 研討會除參加論文發表外，最重要的當然是要了解整個 EMC 的國
際動向，並將今年研討會重要議題（IC EMC 與 Modeling） 
分述如後： 
一、 EM Modeling I 
Patch Antenna Modeling Issues Using Connercial Software 
William O. Coburn, Canh Ly and Steven Weiss 
EMI Analysis of a GSM 900MHz Antenna for Large Wind Turbine Hub with 
Method-of-Moments 
B. Lewke, J. Kindersberger and F. Krug 
Predicting Electromagnetic Coupling between HF, VHF and UHF Antennas using 
NEC 
Patrick Perini and William Duff 
EMI Predicting Under Different Program Behavior 
Shih-Yi Yuan, Chi-Feng Yang, E Sicard, Chiu-Kuo Chen and Shry-Sann Liao 
 
