2中文摘要
本研究目的主要以受塩害腐蝕之鋼筋混凝土建築物為對象提出一含鋼筋腐蝕影響之耐震性能評估
方法，然而塩害所造成之鋼筋腐蝕過程充滿環境、材料性質與施工誤差等之不確定性，本研究除上述
之不確定性影響外，並將因鋼筋腐蝕造成材料性質改變而使梁柱構件之力學性能下降等現象納入耐震
性能評估中，配合地震危度分析所得之譜加速度年超越機率以設定其生命週期地震事件，以評估其於
地震與劣化複合作用下之生命週期成本，對於工程之永續目標有極為重要意義。
關鍵字：鋼筋混凝土，塩害，鋼筋腐蝕，地震，損失
ABSTRACT
In the estimation of the losses caused by an earthquake for a reinforced concrete (RC) building, the effect of
corrosion of the reinforcing steel incurred by environmental conditions, e.g., carbonation and chloride ions, is
seldom mentioned because of the corrosion with uncertainty and time dependence. However, because the
structural capacity of a corroded RC building declines over time, one must apply an appropriate method that
estimates the structural capacity of an RC building in a corrosive environment. Therefore, this work integrated
degradation functions into the structural properties of a corroded RC building. Additionally, by considering
life-cycle earthquake events, including the time earthquakes occur and their response spectral accelerations,
lifetime losses resulting from earthquakes and corrosion can be derived. This work can help both owners and
investors identify lifetime losses of RC buildings due to seismic structural damage, including the corrosion
effect, within a specified service life. Their assets can then be managed using a novel procedure. Although the
case study only addresses selection of the most appropriate concrete cover depth for an RC building corroded
by chloride ions, the proposed procedure can be utilized when making decisions about whether to prevent
building deterioration based on economic considerations.
KEYWORDS: lifetime loss, corrosion, earthquake, reinforced concrete
4is related to deterioration analysis of chloride ions and considers structural and environmental conditions.
Through Phase II, in addition to initiation of corrosion and the weight loss curve of steel due to corrosion,
time-dependent degradation functions for the structural capacity can be assessed. The other phase, called
Phase III, is related to the assessment of lifetime losses due to earthquakes and corrosion. To consider the
corrosion effect, the concept of life-cycle earthquake events is used to estimate seismic losses in Phase III.
Additionally, we assume the time earthquake events occur follows a Poisson process when analyzing lifetime
losses for seismic structural damage within the service lifetime of a corroded RC building. Because several
uncertainties exist deterioration models, seismic structural damage, and earthquakes, Monte Carlo simulation
(MCS) is utilized. Finally, the novel procedure for estimating lifetime losses due to seismic structural damage
is then applied to a case study to demonstrate its applicability.
Figure 1. Procedure for estimating lifetime losses.
II. Application
The applicability of the proposed analytical method was assessed by analyzing an RC school building in
Taipei, northern Taiwan, retrofitted using the column expansion method. Figure 2 shows the capacity
spectrum of the building calculated by static nonlinear analysis (Phase I). Based on the equivalent bilinear
capacity representation (solid line in Fig.2), ductility and yielding base shear factor of the building were 2.48
and 0.36 (= Fy/M), respectively. Additionally, we assume the mean surface chloride content was 3.0 kg/m3.
Table 1 lists deterioration parameters. The time-dependent degradation functions in the equivalent elastic
strength of base shear, yielding base shear force, and ductility were assessed using deterioration analysis
(Phase II). Over a specified service life of 80 years, the degradation factor in ductility was 0.4, meaning
ductility was decreasing to 1.0 from 2.48 (Fig.3).
6Table 2. Statistics of deterioration parameters.
Uncertainty Distribution C.O.V
Surface Chloride Content (Co) Lognormal 0.1
Depth of Concrete Cover (s) Lognormal 0.2
Apparent Diffusion Coefficient (Dp ) Lognormal 0.3
Critical Threshold of Chloride Concentration (Climit)
Uniform
1.0–1.2 kg/m3
-
Corrosion Rate (Vcorr) Lognormal 0.5
In Phase III of the proposed method, the site was subjected to seismic hazard analysis, based on the
uncertainties associated with earthquakes, by considering seismicity, tectonic structure, and the empirical
ground-motion prediction model. Figure 4 shows hazard curves of response spectrum accelerations for short
and long periods for the case site; these curves were then modified to generate hazard curves for the selected
building using the formulas in Taiwan’s seismic design code (MOI, 2005). Figure 5 lists the earthquakes
within a specified service period in one calculation in MCS, which is simulated by a Poisson process; the
mean number of earthquakes in 1 year was set at 0.2.
0 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6 2
Spectral Acceleration (g)
1x10-11
1x10-10
1x10-9
1x10-8
1x10-7
1x10-6
1x10-5
1x10-4
1x10-3
1x10-2
1x10-1
1x100
A
nn
ua
lE
xc
ee
de
nc
e
Pr
ob
ab
ili
ty
Short period
Long period (1 second)
Figure 4. Hazard curve of response spectral accelerations for the specified site.
80 20 40 60 80 100
Specified Service Period (year)
0
2
4
6
8
10
L
ife
tim
e
L
os
se
s(
x
C
I)
Mean Value
Mean Value + One Sigma
Mean Value - One Sigma
Figure 6b. Lifetime losses of the building while considering the corrosion effect.
0 20 40 60 80 100
Specified Service Period (year)
0
2
4
6
8
10
D
et
er
io
ra
tio
n
R
is
k
(x
C
I)
Cf = 1.0 CI
Cf = 2.0 CI
Cf = 5.0 CI
Figure 7. Deterioration risk under different setting losses associated with building collapse.
(Co = 3.0 kg/m3, r = 2%)
III. Conclusion
In this study, we described a method for estimating the annual failure probability and seismic reliability
index of a corroded RC building induced by chloride ingress. Using with the deterioration model caused by
chloride ingress, we could build the time-dependent seismic reliability function. By means of the case study,
10
National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering, Taiwan, Taipei.
Okano, H. and Miyamoto, Y. (2002), “Equations Derived From Equivalent Linearization Method –
Consideration based on energy balance and its application to evaluation of probability of excess of
deformation capacity”, Journal of Structural Construction Engineering (AIJ), No.562, 45-52.
Handou, M., Minegishi, T. and Shibuya, J. (2001), “Estimation of inelastic displacement response using
response spectrum and equivalent linearization method : Part I: Method of estimation”, Summaries of
technical papers of Annual Meeting (AIJ), C-2 Structures IV, Reinforced concrete structures prestressed
concrete structures masonry wall structures, 673-674.
Minegishi, T. Handou, M. and Shibuya, J. (2001), “Estimation of inelastic displacement response using
response spectrum and equivalent linearization method : Part II: Inspection of estimation”, Summaries of
technical papers of Annual Meeting (AIJ), C-2 Structures IV, Reinforced concrete structures prestressed
concrete structures masonry wall structures, 675-676.
AIJ. (2005), Guidelines for Performance Evaluation of Earthquake Resistant Reinforced Concrete Buildings
(Draft), Architecture Institute of Japan.
Manfredi, G. (2001), “Evaluation of Seismic Energy Demand”, Earthquake Engineering and Structural
Dynamics, No.30, 485-499.
Arias A. (1970), “A Measure of the Earthquake Intensity in Seismic Design for Nuclear Power Plants”, MIT
Press: Cambridge, MA, 438-468.
JCI 2004. Committee report of estimation models for long-term performance of concrete structures, Tokyo:
Japan Concrete Institute. (in Japanese)
Kato, Y. and Uomoto, T. (2005), “Proposal for quantitative evaluation methodology of inspection value in
maintenance of concrete structures based on repair-risk”, Journal of Advanced Concrete Technology, 3(3),
363–370.
Takahashi, T., Sakai, M., Seki, H. and Matsushima, M. (2005), “Calculation of LCC and selection system of
repairing method for reinforced concrete members exposed to sea environments”, Concrete Research and
Technology (JCI), 16(3), 21–29. (in Japanese)
Lee, H. S., Noguchi, T. and Tomosawa, F. (1998), “Fundamental Study on Evaluation of Structural
Performance of Reinforced Concrete Beam Damaged by Corrosion of Longitudinal Tensile main Rebar by
Finite Element Method”, Journal of Structural Construction Engineering (AIJ), 506, 43-50. (in Japanese)
JCI 1998. Committee report of study on the Rehabilitation of concrete structures, Tokyo: Japan Concrete
Institute. (in Japanese)
JBDPA 2005. Seismic Evaluation and Retrofit, Tokyo: The Japan Building Disaster Prevention Association
(English Version)
Kanda, J. and Shah, H. 1997. Engineering role in failure cost evaluation for buildings, Structural Safety, 19(1),
79–90.
Stewart, M. G. and Val, D. V. 2003. Multiple limit states and expected failure costs for deteriorating reinforced
concrete bridges, Journal of Bridge Engineering (ASCE), 8(6), 405–415.
Veletsos A.S. and Newmark N. M. (1960), “Effect of inelastic behavior on the response of simple systems to
earthquake motions”, Proceedings of the 2nd World Conference on Earthquake Engineering, Japan, 2,
895-912
MOI 2005. Seismic design code for buildings, Taiwan: Minister of the Interior of Taiwan.
2一.參加會議經過
International Conference on Durability of Concrete Structures (ICDCS)集結以混凝土耐久性
為研究主題之國際專家學者，發表並討論各自最新的研究成果，以達到學術交流的目的。
今年(2010 年)為第二屆(上一屆於北京舉辦)，於日本北海道札幌市(Sapporo)舉辦，舉辦
單位為日本北海道大學(Hokkaido University) 與英國皇后大學(Queen’s University)。本人
於十一月二十四日到達會場完成報到手續，該研討會屬於小型國際性研討會，提供世界
學者於混凝土構造新知識與新論點交流之機會，與會人員可在會中分享最先進研究成果，
加強學術交流，且本次大會主題為”耐久使用年限”，藉由各國與會代表以了解各地區之
使用年限定義。研討會會場位於日本北海道大學的國際學術交流會館(圖一)，共有兩個
平行議程，每個議程的場地約可容納 200 人左右。本次的研討會議題主要有五項：
(1) Properties of Materials and Measurements
(2)Environmental Aspects
(3)Chloride Penetration
(4)Corrosions of Reinforcements
(5)Performance of Components and Structures
二、與會心得
本屆 keynote lecture 有四篇，第一篇為 Service Life Design of Concrete Structure. The
Limit State and Reliability Based Approach Given in fib MC SLD AndISO/WD 16204，比較
各國混凝土使用年限設計標準，並提出一新的標準模型研發與建立的方式。第二篇為
Characteristic Behavior of Dislocations in Ice: A Fundamental Aspect for Ductile
Deformation of Ice，討論冰之韌性變形行為，並提出一套冰之韌性變形行為之基礎理論。
第三篇為 Stochastic Damage Mechanics of Concrete: Background and Recent Developments，
探討混凝土破壞機制，並結合等效應變能理論、微體破壞力學，以及連體破壞力學，提
出一套彈塑性破壞模型，並以實驗結果驗證之。第四篇為 Present Durability Measures for
Concrete Public Works in Japan: Scenario Design of Concrete Structures，詳細說明日本官方
針對混凝土耐久性設計考量之背景與理論。
參與此次盛會，除能擴展國際觀、面對面與國際學生與及教授對話並進行學術交流，
以擷取科技新知與瞭解未來研究趨勢。研討會亦結識多位日本著名大學與中國同濟大學
及浙江大學等諸位教授，對於擴展本人之國際視野與未來國際交流均有相當大之助益，
也開啟本人對於未來相關研究課題之新思維。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)
參觀日本北海道函館地區之混凝土護岸結構，其歷史約百年之久，且保存當年所施
做之混凝土試體並年年進行相關混凝土試驗，以了解混凝土性質之歷時變化，可為國際
上之歷時最長之混凝土材料試驗。
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/05/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 鋼筋混凝土建築物於劣化環境下之生命週期修復性能研究(1/2)
計畫主持人: 邱建國
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-011-011- 學門領域: 土木材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2010年 11 月參與 2010ICDCS 研討會,於會中發表之論文 
已被邀請刊登於國際期刊中. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
