 1
高效率與高功率密度雙向電能轉換器設計及磁性元件整合(II) 
 
 
摘要 
 
具模糊邏輯控制之準共振零電流切換交換電容式轉換器是一個新型態的雙向能量傳輸
系統。 此轉換器能夠提供電壓變換比率從 2 對 1/2 藉由增加不同的交換電容的數目，可
使電壓變換比率增加為 n 和 1/n 倍，電路為使用功率開關 MOSFET 與較小的諧振電感串
聯。根據控制學的理論，利用頻率控制法設計模糊邏輯控制器。我們運用電腦模擬及實驗
結果，驗證模糊邏輯控制器在不同能量變換的拓撲學和負載情況下的雙向轉換器電壓之調
節性能及正確性。並分別量測傳導性電磁干擾與輻射性電磁干擾驗證零電流切換技術可以
有效改善電磁干擾，並利用功率結合器分離共模雜訊與差模雜訊。 
 
關鍵詞：準共振轉換器、零電流切換、雙向轉換器、模糊控制、電磁干擾 
 
Abstract 
 
The proposed quasi-resonant (QR) zero–current–switching (ZCS) switched-capacitor (SC) 
converter with fuzzy logic controller is a new type of bi-directional power flow control 
conversion scheme. They are able to provide the voltage conversion ratios from 2 versus 1/2 
(double-mode / half-mode) to n versus 1/n (n-mode / 1/n-mode) by adding a different number of 
switched-capacitors and power MOSFET switches with a small series connected resonant 
inductor for forward and reverse schemes. The low current stress and balance resonance current 
are the advantage of the proposed quasi resonant switched-capacitor converter. The switching 
frequency control method for the designed fuzzy logic controller (FLC) takes advantage of 
cybernetics theory. The dynamic simulation and experiments for the proposed fuzzy logic 
controller for the studied converters are used to demonstrate the validity of the voltage regulation 
performance under different energy conversion topologies and load conditions. Peak level EMI 
emissions in the measured frequency spectrums show the proposed device can significantly 
reduce compared with that measured in the converter without QR ZCS for the forward and 
reverse power flow control schemes at a specified frequency range. The radiated emissions are 
improved as well.The radiated emissions are improved as well. The conducted common-mode 
(CM) and differential-mode (DM) noises could be separated using a power combiner from the 
converter circuit noises 
 
Keywords：Quasi–resonant converter, Zero current switching, Bi-directional converter, Fuzzy 
Logic Control, EMI.
 
 
I 
  3
( )1 CkbLr r dVi n C dt= −                     (2) 
The solutions for (1) and (2) are:  
( )( 1) 1 0 1 ( 1) 0 0cos ( )Ckb c k a ckb c k aV V V V V V t tω+ += − + + − −  
1 0 0 0 0 0
1 co s ( )
2 S
kV n I T Z t tω ω≅ + −      (3) 
( )0 0 1 ( 1) 0 0( 1) sin ( )Lr r ckb c k ai n C V V V t tω ω+= − − + − −       
0 0 0 0
1 s in ( )
2 S
n I T t tω ω≅ − −            (4) 
Using input and output energy conservation, 
equations (3) can be simplified as (4), 
respectively. Where k = 1, 2, VC3a = Vo, and the 
resonant angular frequency and the 
characteristic impedance are: 
0
0
2
)1(
1
TCnL rr
πω =−=
 , 
)1(0 −= nC
LZ
r
r   
State II [ t1-t2 ]  
The stored energy in C3a is discharged to 
the load and the state equations are: 
1 0 0 0
1
2C kb S
V kV nI T Z ω= −                 (5) 
0=Lri                               (6) 
State III [ t2-t3 ] 
Switch QP1 is turned on, and QN1 is turned 
off. The source energy V1 is charged to C1b, the 
C2a energy is charged to C2b. In this stage, the 
state equations are:  
Ckb
Lr
rCka Vdt
diV += L                    (7) 
( )1 C k bL r r d Vi n C d t= −                    (8) 
The solutions of (7) and (8) are:  
2 0 2( ) cos ( )C kb cka ckb ckaV V V V t tω= + − −           
   
1 0 0 0 0 2
1 co s ( )
2 S
kV nI T Z t tω ω≅ − −        (9) 
0 2 0 2( 1) ( ) sin ( )Lr r ckb ckai n C V V t tω ω= − − − −        
0 0 0 2
1 s in ( )
2 S
n I T t tω ω≅ −           (10) 
Using input and output energy conversation, 
equations (9) and (10) can be simplified into a 
compact form. Where k = 1, 2, and VC1a=V1. 
State IV [ t3-t4 ] 
Switches QN1 and QP1 are turned off. The 
stored energy in C3a is discharges to the load, the 
state equations are: 
1 0 0 0
1
2C k b S
V k V n I T Z ω= +               (11) 
0=Lri                             (12) 
In forward power flow scheme, using input and 
output energy conversation, equation (3) can be 
simplified into (13), respectively. Where k = 1, 
2, and VC3a=Vo. 
2 3 0
3 cos ( )
2C b C a S O S O O O
V V V I T Z t tω ω= − + −      (13) 
Assuming VC2b is ideal. VC2b=2VS, the state 
equations are: 
3
1 33 ( )
2 2O C a S O S O O
V V V I T Z ω= = −          (14) 
 
B. Reverse Power Flow Scheme 
Figure 1(a) shows the equivalent circuit of 
the proposed non-inverting type 3-mode / 
1/3-mode ZCS SC bi-directional converter with 
reverse power flow control. The analysis of the 
each equivalent circuit is the same as the 
forward power flow control. 
State I [ t0-t1 ] 
During this interval, switches QN2, QN3 and 
QN4 are turned on, the state equations are: 
O ( 1) -L -LrC k a r C kb
diV V V
dt+
=               (15) 
( )1 C kbLr r dVi n C dt= −                   (16) 
The solutions for (15) and (16) are: 
( 1) ( 1) 0( ) ( )cos( )Cb o c k a ckb c k a oV V V V V V t t+ += − + + − −  
O 0 0 0 0 0
1 cos ( )
2 S
kV nI T Z t tω ω≅ − −           (17) 
0 ( 1) 0 0( 1) ( )sin ( )Lr r ckb c k a oi n C V V V t tω ω+= − − + − −     
0 0 0 0
1 sin ( )
2 S
n I T t tω ω≅ −            (18) 
Using the method in part A, the equations (17) 
and (1) can be simplified into a compact form. 
Where k = 1, 2, and VC3a= V2 . 
State II [ t1-t2 ]  
All switches are turned off and the stored 
energy in C1a is discharged to the load and the 
state equations are: 
O 0 0 0
1
2C kb S
V kV n I T Z ω= +               (19) 
0=Lri                              (20) 
State III [ t2-t3 ] 
The switches QP2, QP3 and QP4 are turned on, 
the state equations are: 
  5
The output voltage can be regulated by 
controlled the switching frequency of the 
proposed QR ZCS SC converter that is designed 
to operate under fs < f0. Figure 5 shows a QR 
ZCS bidirectional converter with the output 
feedback fuzzy controller block diagram. The 
DSP dsPIC30F4011 and micro-controller chip 
SN8P2708A are adopted as the voltage 
management unit in the proposed control 
scheme. V1 and V3 are the converter output 
voltages, converting the output voltage A/D 
through the computer. A fuzzy logic controller 
that outputs different pulse frequency 
modulation sends to the converter MOSFET 
drivers. The membership function is described 
using five linguistic variables, i.e. VL (very 
large), L (large), M (medium), S (small), and 
VS (very small). The rule base collects the 
control rules that describe the knowledge and 
experience of the QR ZCS bidirectional 
converter control in the fuzzy set. The 3-D 
characteristic curve of the fuzzy logic controller 
output current is shown in Fig. 6. 
 
 
Fig. 5 QR ZCS bidirectional converter with 
fuzzy controller block diagram 
 
 
Fig. 6 The 3-D characteristic curve of the fuzzy 
logic controller output 
 
To validate the EMI performance of the 
proposed ZCS SC bi-directional dc/dc converter, 
experiments were carried out for the proposed 
triple-mode / trisection-mode non-inverting 
ZCS SC dc/dc converters. Figure 7(a) shows the 
conducted emission measured system 
installation and the DM/CM separated scheme. 
The line impedance stabilization network (LISN) 
is used to smooth the input impedance seen 
from the converter input and assess the 
conducted noise, which is measured using a 
spectrum analyzer (SA). This noise can be 
separated into CM- and DM-noises using the 
power combiner from the Line and Neutral 
output terminal of LISN [7-9]. Figure 7(b) 
shows the schematic configuration of the 
radiated emission measurement of DUT. 
Figures 8(a) and 8(b) show the corresponding 
The venin’s equivalent circuit model for CM- 
and DM- noises of the converter measured 
system, respectively [6,8]. 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Fig.7 EMI test installation for (a) conducted 
emission and the DM/CM noises separated 
scheme, (b) radiated emission 
 
   From the equivalent circuit for the DM and 
CM EMI noises in the measurement system, the 
CM and DM noise current can be expressed as 
(29) and (30): 
  7
power flow control for the common-mode and 
differential-mode noises, respectively. Figures 
14 and 15 show the horizontal and vertical 
radiated EMI noises under the forward power 
flow control for the converter with and without 
the QR ZCS, respectively. The test point 
measured comparison results corresponding to 
Figs. 14 and 15 are tabled in Tables III and IV, 
respectively. 
From Figs. 11-15 and Tables I-IV, several 
observations for the EMI performance 
comparison of the SC bidirectional converters 
with/without the QR ZCS can be summarized as 
follows: 
     The EMI noise suppression effect on the 
proposed QR ZCS bidirectional converter is 
better than without ZCS because it has turned 
on and turned off in the zero current state. The 
maximal EMI noise level for the converter can 
be significantly reduced compared with the 
conventional SC bidirectional converter over 
14dBµV. 
     The EMI noise in the forward power flow 
control is lower than it in the reverse control 
scheme due to fewer switch components in the 
reverse scheme. 
     The dominant component of the EMI 
emission is differential-mode for the QR ZCS 
SC bi-directional converters. Therefore, there is 
higher noise level existing in the SC converters 
that will be significantly considered in the EMI 
filter design. 
 
 (a) Vgs, VC1b, Vo, ILr, Vds waveforms 
 
(b) Vgs, VC3b, Vo, ILr, Vds waveforms 
 
Fig. 7 Experimental results of the proposed 
ZCS SC bi-directional converter for (a) forward 
(b) reverse power flow control 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b). 
Fig. 8 Steady state output voltage with respect 
to output power for converter with/without FLC 
under (a) forward (b) reverse power flow 
control schemes  
  9
 
(b) 
Fig. 12 EMI noise for the converter with QR 
ZCS under forward power flow control for (a) 
common-mode (b) differential-mode noise  
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 13 EMI noise for the converter with QR 
ZCS under reverse power flow control for (a) 
common-mode noise (b) differential-mode 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
Fig. 14 Horizontal radiated EMI noise for the 
converter (a) with QR ZCS (b) without QR ZCS 
under the forward power flow control 
 
 
TABLE III. COMPARED RESULTS OF HORIZONTAL RADIATED 
EMI NOISES  
Test 
point 
Frequency 
(MHz) 
Converter 
with QR ZCS 
(dB µV) 
Converter 
with QR 
ZCS 
(dB µV) 
Improvement
(dB µV) 
1 34.86 67.97 75.79 -7.82 
2 52.14 59.55 71.69 -15.14 
3 63.21 54.19 64.51 -10.32 
4 95.61 43.10   
5 151.5 47.37 52.23 -4.86 
6 176.61 46.19 47.27 -1.08 
 
 
 
(a) 
  11
Signal Separation,” Proc. of IEEE PEDS2005, Nov. 2005, pp. 
1640-1645. 
[16] J. S. Lai, X. Huang, S. Chen, and T. Nehl, "EMI Characterization 
and Simulation with Parasitic Models for a Low-Voltage High 
Current AC Motor Drive," IEEE Transactions on Industry 
Applications, Jan. 2004, pp. 178 – 185. 
[17] H. Zhu, J. S. Lai, A. Hefner, and C. Chen, "Analysis of Conducted 
EMI Emission from PWM Inverter Based on Empirical Model and 
Comparative Experiments," in Conf. Rec. of IEEE Power 
Electronics Specialists Conference, Charleston, SC, June 1999, pp. 
861 – 867. 
[18] C. R. Paul, Introduction to Electromagnetic Compatibility, 2nd, 
New York: Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2006. 
 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
本計畫提出雙方向零電流切換電容式直流對直流轉換器的控制器設計，利用模糊控制的
原理來設計，使得雙方向零電流切換電容式直流對直流轉換器在雙方向能量傳輸(順向能量傳
輸與逆向能量傳輸)時皆能維持穩定的輸出，並量測雙方向零電流切換電容式直流對直流轉換
器之電磁干擾，而本篇報告內容中提出了雙向準共振零電流切換電容式直流對直流轉換器的
新拓樸及頻率控制器的設計並針對具有和不具有零電流切換進行 EMI 量測與分析。 
本計劃預期達成目標為下列 4 項： 
1. 新型雙向直流對直流轉換器的電路分析、設計和製作。 
2. 新型多組輸入/輸出雙向直流對直流轉換器的電路分析、設計和製作。 
3. 雙向直流對直流轉換器電路 EMI 量測與分析。 
4. 雙向直流對直流轉換器模糊邏輯控制器設計和製作。 
已完成所有項目，雙向準共振零電流切換電容式直流對直流轉換器及新型多組輸入/輸出雙向
直流對直流轉換器設計，並對其電路架構進行分析、設計、模擬和製作，同時針對雙向直流
對直流轉換器電路進行 EMI 量測與分析和控制器設計和製作。 
雙向準共振零電流切換電容式直流對直流轉換器改進了傳統切換電容式轉換器在開關上
所具有的高的電流應力問題，配合切換電容式的組合，可將雙方向轉換器的轉換倍率，由 2
倍對 1/2 倍擴展到 n 倍對 1/n 倍，可用於各類電子系統，而所設計出的頻率控制器可使得轉換
器輸出電壓維持穩定，同時對具有和不具有零電流切換進行 EMI 量測與比較分析。 
本計畫完成後共獲得下列量化成果： 
1. 博士生訓練 1 人及碩士生訓練 3 人。 
2. 研究成果共發表研討會論文 2 篇：  
[1]. Y. S. Lee, Y. P. Ko, and W. H. Chao, “ZCS Switched-Capacitor Bidirectional Converter with Fuzzy 
Controller,” CACS International Automatic Control Conference, Nov. 2009. 
[2]. Ming-Wang Cheng, Yuang-Shung Lee, Ren-Her Chen and Wun-Tong Sie. “Cell Voltage Equalization Using ZCS SC 
Bidirectional Converters, ” INTELEC 09-31th International Telecommunications Energy Conference, 2009. 
3. 研究成果共發表期刊論文 1 篇： 
   [1]. Y. S. Lee, Y. Y. Chiu, M.W. Cheng, Y. P. Ko, and S. H. Hsiao “Inverting Quasi-Resonant Switched-Capacitor 
Bidirectional Converter and Its Application to Battery Equalization,” IEICE Transactions on Communications, 
E92-B(4), pp. 1326-1336, 2009. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  13
推廣及運用的價值
雙向準共振零電流切換電容式直流對直流轉換器重量輕、體積
小、高效率和低的電磁干擾，改進了傳統切換電容式轉換器在開關
上所具有的高的電流應力問題，同時藉由頻率控制維持穩定輸出電
壓，可應用於各類的電子系統。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
Applications，其內容包含 Lead acid battery, Nickel-metal hydride, Lithium-ion batteries, Flow 
batteries, 和 Ultracapacitors 的最新發展和其在電信能源系統上的應用。本人亦參加 October 19
開幕的 keynote Speech 1：Renewable Energy Sources for Telecommunication Power, by Dr. Victor 
Stefanovic;  Keynote Speech 2：Korea’s Green-Technology Strategy and R&D Policy, by Dr. 
Sangki Jeong， 由 Dr. Victor Stefanovic 和 Dr. Sangki Jeong 的演講及熱烈參與討論的情況下，
大家對未來的再生能源之電信系統應用和 KGT 能源策略及 R&D 政策有進一步了解，及對人
類及日常生活的空氣污染和使用的能源技術如電池、燃料電池、太陽能等再生能源關鍵技術
充滿憧憬和期待，同時亦對 Distributed and micro-grid power system 科技的發展在未來再生能
源的技術應用上有深一層的認識。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
國內有多位學者專家亦參加此國際會議，共發表多篇電力電子及控制方面相關論文，如
中山大學莫清賢教授，東華大學謝耀慶教授….等。同時本人亦與 Dr. Choi 及多位參與學者、
專家充分討論有關再生能源電力電子的新技術的發展和控制器的設計技術等問題，收獲良
多，對未來的研究方向和目標更堅定和更有幫助。參加此會議可積極參與目前最領先的再生
能源電力電子發展和電池技術的專家討論，並將台灣在此方面的努力成果向外推展，以及雙
向交流，增進國內電池能源管理研究的潛力和爭取國際的參與，期許國內在電力電子和電池
能源管理科技的研究能加強和積極的參與。韓國歷經了此兩次全球經濟風爆後，其經濟體改
革和工業振興方案的做法很值得臺灣参考。本次參與會議及討論對韓國和中國大陸的學生在
再生能源和 micro-grid power system 研究方面的熱中投入和努力印象深刻，很值得國內此領域
的學者、專家参考和借鏡。參加此會議，可積極參與目前最領先的再生能源技術討論，並將
台灣在再生能源科技之努力成果向外推展，以及雙向的溝通交流，增進國內研究的潛力和爭
取國際的認同和參與，會後攜回 International Telecommunications Energy Conference 大會所提
供的論文集一本及光碟片可提供參考。 
 
三、代表性研討會論文 
  
 
switches can be realized using two MOSFETs with body 
diodes as shown in Fig. 2 (a) The single pole double throw 
(SPDT) current bi-directional switches can also be realized as 
shown in Fig. 2 (b) using four MOSFETs with body diodes. 
The jth module is comprised of a switched-capacitor bank that 
contains two capacitors, Cj and Cj+1, a small resonant inductor 
Lj, two SPDT current bi-directional switches and three SPST 
current bi-directional switches employed as the battery cell 
voltage balancing switches. This system is redrawn and 
simplified in Fig. 3. The cell voltage balancing control 
algorithm for this equalization scheme is instructed by a 
microprocessor based BMS. The energy between the 
adjoining battery cells is transformed through the energy 
transferring capacitor, Cj and Cj+1. The energy transfer 
direction is determined by the cell voltage and/or SOC 
difference in the battery string and conduction from the 
controlled power MOSFET switches [9]. The two adjoining 
cells are balanced by switching the MOSFETs on/off 
according to the PWM signals generated from the BMS. The 
PWM signals correspond to the respective cell voltage 
through the microprocessor based BMS, which controls the 
SPST and SPDT switches. For example, the PWM control 
signal turns on/off the SPST and SPDT switches to transfer 
some of the stronger cell voltage, VBj, to the weak cell, VBj+1. 
The stronger cell energy is transferred from cell VBj to cell 
VBj+1. Conversely, if cell VBj+1 has stronger than the weaker 
cell VBj, the energy is transferred from cell VBj+1 to cell VBj 
by controlling the SPST and SPDT switches. The equalization 
process will be uninterrupted until the voltages in the 
remaining cells are all equalized to the same level. The 
proposed bidirectional battery equalizer is designed to operate 
at DCM for achieving the zero current switching to reduce the 
MOSFETs switching losses.  
(a) 
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 4 Equivalent circuit of QRZCS SC Converter for 
VBj>VBj+1 during (a) t0≤t<t1 (b) t3≤t<t4  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Realization of switches: (a) Single pole single 
through current bi-directional switch. (b) Single pole     
double through current bi-directional switch 
The detailed equivalent circuit for the proposed battery 
equalization schemes is shown in Figs. 4 and 5 during the 
various time intervals for the different cell voltage, VBj>VBj+1 
and VBj<VBj+1, respectively. Figures 4 (a) - (b) show the 
equivalent circuit for the proposed QR ZCS SC battery 
equalizer with forward power flow control scheme under the (t0 
≤ t < t1) and (t2 ≤ t < t3) operating time intervals, respectively. 
Some assumptions are necessary for analyzing the converter 
circuit dynamics: The resonant inductor Lj is a small 
inductance, neglecting its internal resistance; the 
semiconductor switches and diodes are ideal; the capacitor 
Cj=Cj+1=C in the switched-capacitor bank is ideal. The QR 
ZCS SC equalizer operating modes are now analyzed as 
follows: 
 
Stage 1 (Fig. 4(a); t0≤ t < t1): Q1P (contained Qj, Qj+4 and 
Qj+6) are turned on, and body diode Dj+2 is forced to turn on at t 
= t0, the power flow is from VBj positive through Q1P, resonant 
inductor Lj, the parallel resonant capacitor Cj and Cj+1, and Dj+2 
to VBj negative; the state equations in this parallel capacitors 
charging interval are shown as follows: 
Fig. 3 Single unit of the proposed CVE 
 In order to validate the performance of the proposed bi-
directional battery equalizer, a PSpice simulation and 
experiment were carried out for a three cell battery module 
with the proposed battery equalizers. The parameters of the 
batteries and the designed battery equalizers are listed as 
follows: The initial voltages of the three lithium-ion batteries 
Sanyo UR18650w are 3.95(V), 3.93(V), and 3.6(V), 
respectively. The inductances are Lj=1μH, Cj=Cj+1=18μF. The 
switching frequency and the duty cycle of the battery 
equalizer are 20 kHz and 0.48 (dead time is 1μs), MOSFETs 
are IRF034, respectively. Figures6 - 9 and Figure 10 shows 
the simulation and results for the proposed battery equalizer 
for VBj> VBj+1 and VBj+2>VBj>VBj+1, respectively. Figs. 11 
show the experimental results of Vgs and ILr for VBj> VBj+1, 
respectively. Figures 12 -13 show the experimental results for 
the cell voltage trajectories under floating states of the 
proposed battery equalizer for VBj> VBj+1 and VBj+2>VBj>VBj+1, 
respectively. Figures 14(a) and (b) show the measured results 
for the conducted EMI emissions from the LINE output of the 
line impedance stabilization network (LISN) for the battery 
equalization scheme using the proposed converter without 
ZCS and with ZCS, respectively. The peak level conducted 
EMI emissions in the measured frequency spectrums are 
significantly reduced from 8-20dBμV compared with that 
without ZCS [11, 12].  
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Simulation results for VBj>VBj+1 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Simulation results for VBj > VBj+1 
 
Fig. 9 Simulation results of the voltage trajectories for 
VBj<VBj+1 
 
Fig. 10 Simulation results of the voltage trajectories for 
VBj+2<VBj<VBj+1 
 
 
Vgs_Q1P
Vgs_Q1N
0
0
0
20V/DIV
10A/DIV
10V/DIV
ILr
 
Fig. 7 Simulation results of the voltage trajectories for 
VBj>VBj+1 
Fig. 11 Experimental results of the inductor current and driver 
signals for VBj > VBj+1 
