Presented in 2012 National Symposium Telecommunications 
 
Efficient Prediction in Soft-output Sphere Decoding 
 
Tsai Lin, Chung, and Pai, Hung-Ta, Senior Member, IEEE 
 
 
Abstract — Reducing computational complexity in the 
MIMO detection is the main challenge to those who are 
involved in the related research. The maximum 
likelihood (ML) algorithm provides an excellent 
error-rate performance, but its complexity is high and 
becomes much higher as the number of antennas or 
modulation points increases. The sphere decoding 
algorithm could be an ML algorithm and has got much 
attention. Although the computational complexity of the 
sphere decoding is lower than a full search algorithm, it 
is still comparably higher than suboptimal algorithms. 
After investigating the MIMO detection methods based 
on the sphere decoding, we propose an efficient   
prediction technique for the single tree search of the 
sphere decoding to reduce the search complexity while 
achieving a near-optimal performance. This technique is 
based on the idea of Algorithm A*. Simulation results 
show an improvement in computational complexity by 
60%, compared with the STS without the prediction. 
 
Index Terms− Multiple-input multiple-output systems, 
soft-output sphere decoding, single tree search, sorted 
QR decomposition.  
      
I. INTRODUCTION 
By offering efficient the space diversity as well as the 
spatial multiplexing, multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) 
has already been becoming an indispensable part and 
constitutes the basis for upcoming wireless communication 
standards [3]. All the MIMO signals are monitored out under 
intense computational complexity except orthogonal 
space-time block codes (OSTBC) [4] that can provide the 
space diversity. Therefore, the complexity is not only 
unfavorable to mobile communication but also the 
inefficient power consumption causes a heavy load of 
energy demand for the general communication system. 
Reducing the signal detection computational complexity has 
been the critical subject to the MIMO research. 
 In order to get a high throughput, the spatial 
multiplexing technology will be applied. The number of 
receive antennas are more than or equal to the number of 
transmit antennas. Because no code structure is employed, 
the detection complexity at the receiver will be higher 
consequently than the OSTBC, in which the spatial 
multiplexing is not utilized. Numbers of researchers have 
proposed many practical algorithms to reduce the 
complexity. The sphere decoding has got much attention and 
esteemed as one of the most acceptable technique owing to 
its lower complexity. Considering a MIMO system with ்ܰ 
transmit, ோܰ  receive antennas and ோܰ	 ≥ 	்ܰ	 , the 
input-output relation is given by 
 
ܻ ≡
ۏ
ێ
ێ
ۍ ݕଵݕଶ
⋮
⋮ݕேೃے
ۑ
ۑ
ې
=
ۏ
ێ
ێ
ۍ ℎଵଵ ℎଵଶ 	⋯	 ℎଵே೅ℎଶଶ ℎଶଶ 	⋯	 ℎଶே೅
⋮
ℎேೃଵ
⋮
ℎேೃଶ
⋱	
⋯	
⋮
ℎேೃே೅ے
ۑ
ۑ
ې
ۏ
ێ
ێ
ۍ ݔଵݔଶ
⋮
⋮ݔேೃے
ۑ
ۑ
ې
+
ۏ
ێ
ێ
ۍ ݊ଵ݊ଶ
⋮
⋮݊ேೃے
ۑ
ۑ
ې
   
 
					≡ 	۶ேೃே೅x + n ,                             (1)  
 where ݔ௜ denotes the symbol sent from the ݅th antenna, 
y௝	denotes the symbol received at the j antenna, n௝ denotes 
the AWGN at the ݆ receive antenna, h௝௜ is a first order 
channel response between the ݆ th receive and the ݅ th 
transmit antennas, where ݅ = 1, 2, ...,	N் ,  ݆ = 1, 2, ...,Nோ, 
Let ξ stand for the set of C underlying complex-valued 
scalar constellation points. It is necessary to get x from ܥே೅ 
possible solutions. By applying the sphere decoding 
operation, the optimal or near-optimal ML solution [1] 
might be found.  
Offered by Schnorr and Eucher, the sphere decoding 
utilizes the tree-search to get the optimal solution [5]. Every 
route from the root to the leaves of the tree can achieve a 
correspondent solving possibility. The sphere decoding of 
the constant search improvement has been resulted by Studer 
et al. lately. In addition to the VLSI implementation, the fast 
soft-output algorithm is included too [2].  
Studer et al. have proposed the single tree search, 
combined with the sorted QR decomposition [6] to reduce 
the computational complexity significantly. The average 
computational complexity has been reduced and is much 
lower than the optimal algorithm, even better than some 
suboptimal algorithms. When realizing the depth-search, 
Studer et al. did not apply algorithm A* [13] to reduce the 
computational complexity. In other words, the Euclidean 
distance at the lower stage is estimated for a probable quest.  
By the sphere decoding algorithm, the partial Euclidean 
distances (PEDs) at the present node will be compared with 
the shortest Euclidean distances so far when the quest is 
getting downward. The PEDs is just a part of the Euclidean 
distance, and it will keep on increasing simultaneously as the 
quest downward to the lower stage. The Euclidean distance 
at the leaf node is absolutely larger than the PEDs at 
non-leaf nodes. The comparison is too conservative and 
unfair; it will increase the extra computation because of 
unneeded depth-search [7]. 
 When decoding error-correction codes, the evaluation 
function of the algorithm A*will be utilized to predict the 
metric. We are employing the concept to reduce efficiently 
the complexity of the sphere decoding algorithm for the 
Presented in 2012 National Symposium Telecommunications 
 
2. If d(s) ≥ λ୑୐, the counter-hypotheses will be checked. If 
	d(s) < λ௝,௞ெ௅തതതത and s୨,୩ = ݏ௝,௞ெ௅തതതത	for all j and k, 	λ௝,௞ெ௅തതതത is updated 
to d(s) [2] [12].  
III. PROPOSED SCHEME AND SIMULATION 
A. The Efficient Prediction in STS of SOSD: 
The sphere decoding proposed by Studer et al. compares 
the PEDs of the current node with λ୑୐ as well as		λ௝,௞ெ௅തതതത. The 
Dijkstra algorithm [10] is applied in the condition of that 
evaluation function algorithm A*, h(m) = 0, the shortest 
route is guaranteed to be found, but the superfluous 
computation is inevitable owing to the additional node visits.  
We apply the concept of the algorithm A* [13] to reduce the 
computational complexity. At first, the ZF solution is 
counted out to get the SZF, and its corresponding Euclidean 
distance is set as the initial value λ୑୐. The PEDs of each 
layer is figured out to be multiplexed with the weight. The 
evaluation function value ℎᇱ(݉) is deducted but not the 
best one,	ℎᇱ(݉), the distribution is not for the shortest route 
even though the node visits have been decreased efficiently. 
Furthermore, we calculate the norms of the column vectors 
in the channel matrix H, normalize the norm by the 
summations of the norms and then multiply λ୑୐ with the 
normalized norm to get the PEDs for each layer. The 
evaluation function ℎᇱ(݉) can be deducted out with a value 
that is close to the distribution of the shortest route. Both the 
near-optimal performance and the complexity reduction can 
be resulted as well. Besides, multiplexing the weight can get 
the optimal performance result as needed. 
 The prediction method is summarized as follows. P(x(i)) 
denotes the prediction value in the ݅th level, ℎ௝ denotes the 
݆th column vector of the channel matrix H, and wi denotes 
the weight for the	݅th level. 
 
1. Computation of N୘ norms: 
	∥ h୨ ∥ଶ,        j = 1, 2, . . . ,	N୘ 
2. Normalization:    
∥୦ౠ∥మ
∑ ∥୦ౠ∥మಿ೅೔సభ
	 ,      j = 1, 2, . . . ,		N୘     
3. Prediction for the ith level:  
P(x(i)) =
∑ ∥୦ౠ∥మ೔ೕసభ
∑ ∥୦ౠ∥మಿ೅ೕసభ
	·wi ,   i = 1, 2, . . . ,		N୘     (12) 
where wi is the weighting parameter. 
 
The efficient prediction in STS of SOSD is described as 
follows:  
Step 1. Compute H. 
Step 2. Apply the QR decomposition to H to obtain Q and R. 
Step 3. Rewrite (4) and (5) as 
 
λ୑୐ = ∥ y෤ − Rx ∥ଶ௫∊஼ಿ೅௠௜௡			 	,                 (13) 
 
λ௝,௞ெ௅തതതത = ∥ y෤ − Rx ∥ଶ
௫∊ௌೕ,ೖ
(ೄണ,ೖಾಽ
തതതതതതത)
௠௜௡				 	,                (14) 
 
Step 4. Apply the ZF detection to determine the initial value 
of λ୑୐ and ݏ௝,௞ெ௅. The ZF detection are given by 
 
y෤௓ி = 	 (HୌH)ିଵHୌy 
 
ݔ෤௜,௓ி = ∥ ݕ෤௜,௓ி − x ∥ଶ௫∊௖				௔௥௚௠௜௡  ,   i = 1, 2, . . . ,		N୘   (15) 
and C denotes the number of QAM constellation points. The 
initial value of λ୑୐ and ݏ௝,௞ெ௅ are given as 
 
ݏ௝,௞ெ௅=ݏ௝,௞௓ி ,    λ୑୐ =∥ y෤ − Rx෤௓ி ∥ଶ,              (16) 
Step 5. Based on [2], (7) and (8) are solved by the single tree 
search algorithm which is introduced In Section II Let A be 
the set as equation (11) 
Step 6. The comparative method is proposed as follows. 
1. If d൫x(୧)൯ + 	P(x(୧ିଵ)) 	 · 	 λ୑୐ 	< 	 λ୑୐		, the nodes at the 
next level are searched. 2. If d൫x(୧)൯ + 	P൫x(୧ିଵ)൯ · 	λ୑୐ 	>
	λ୑୐,the counter-hypotheses will be checked. If d൫x(୧)൯ +
	P൫x(୧ିଵ)൯ · 	max௔௟	∊	୅	݈ܽ		 < 	max௔௟	∊	୅	݈ܽ		, then the nodes at 
the next level are searched. 
Step 7. The update rule is described In Section II 
B. Simulation Result: 
This proposed scheme is evaluated by computer simulations.  
We employ a block interleaver [14] and a code polynomial 
[133 171] of a convolutional code with constraint length 7 
and code rate 3/4. The single tree search of soft-output 
sphere decoding with efficient prediction is applied at the 
receiver. The 4×4 and 5×5 MIMO systems, using 64-QAM 
with flat Rayleigh fading and AWGN, we assume that the 
receiver has perfect knowledge of the channel matrix 
realization. The SNR per receive antenna is 	1/N଴	 .The 
number of collected decoding errors is at least 100. We 
combine our method with the sorted QR (SQR) [6]. The 
improvement is shown in Figures 4, 5, 6, and 7. The results 
with/without prediction are summarized in TableⅠ. 
 
 
Fig. 4: Comparison in 4 × 4, 64-QAM with code rate 3/4 for the bit error 
rate. 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
SNR
Bi
t E
rro
r R
at
e 
(B
ER
)
STS of SOSD in 4x4 64−QAM with code rate 3/4
 
 
SQR
SQR with prediction(w:1,1,1)
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-305 -002 
計畫名稱 基於 QR分解之雙空時區塊碼適應性解碼 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
白宏達，台北大學通訊工程研究所，副教授 
會議時間地點 July 16-19, 2012 
會議名稱 WORLDCOMP’12 
發表論文題目 Exploring Students' Cognitive Process in Game-based Learning Environment by Eye Tracking 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
這個會議的全名是 The 2012 World Congress in Computer Science, Computer Engineering 
and Applied Computing，主要是有關於電腦科學、工程、及其應用的研究。隨著跨領域研
究的重要性不斷提高，如何將訊號處理及電腦相關技術，應用到日常生活中，以提高生
活的便利性及效率，也日趨熱門。在這個會議中，我發表了我第一次跨出通訊領域，嘗
試與其他人文社會方面研究結合，所得到的成果。並希望透過參加此一會議，能夠與來
自世界各地，在跨領域研究上有所著墨的學者互動，以了解未來的趨勢，為以後的研究
奠定基礎。 
 
我的論文是在七月十七號下午發表，期間與不少的學者有一些討論。主要是如何將視覺
化(visualize)眼動資料，使得資料能夠更容易分析及比較。除此之外，也參與了其學者的
研究成果發表，主要也是眼動儀的使用及應用。最後，也和來自美國喬治亞州的大學，
討論國際學生的招收及交流，可作為敝校國際化的參考。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
在和參與會議的學者互動中，不但多了解了許多跨領域合作的可能性，也對最新的研究
議提有了更進一步的認識。而這些學者主要來自韓國，可見韓國對跨領域研究的重視，
我們必需更加努才行。此外，有些學校在遠距教學上，有不少的創新及進步，也很值得
未來課程設計來參考。 
 
Exploring Students’ Cognitive Process in Game-based 
Learning Environment by Eye Tracking 
 
Meng-Jung Tsai1 and Hung-Ta Pai2 
1Graduate Institute of Digital Learning and Education, National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 
2Graduate Institute of Communication  Engineering, National Taipei University, New Taipei City, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract - Game-based learning has been proposed and 
developed for years; however, its effectiveness is still open 
with inconsistent findings. This study attempted to explore 
students’ visual attention distributions in game-based 
learning environment by using eye-tracking techniques. An 
online game, Talking Island, designed to enhance elementary 
students’ English ability was used for eye-tracking 
experiments. Subjects were twenty 3rd graders in Taiwan. 
During the experiment, subjects played the game for 20 
minutes individually and their eye movements was tracked and 
recorded by a MobileEye eye-tracker. After the experiment, a 
vocabulary test was used to evaluate students’ learning. 
Percentage of fixation duration and percentage of viewing 
time were analyzed by T-tests and effect sizes between genders 
and between different performance groups. Heat maps and 
fixation sequences were further observed for each subject. 
Results showed that overall students can focus on learning-
related elements in this game. Findings will be discussed in 
detail in the conference. 
Keywords: game-based learning, eye tracking, human-
computer interaction, user studies, cognitive process 
 
1 Background 
  Researchers have been devoted to develop game-
based learning environments and design related contents for 
years; however, the effectiveness of game-based learning is 
still open with inconsistent findings. Most of the prior studies 
evaluating digital game-based learning use self-reported 
questionnaires to survey students’ acceptances of technology 
or use log-files to analyze interactions between learners and 
computer systems. Self-reported questionnaires are usually 
conducted before or after the learning process; and log-files 
can only record students’ responding behaviors during the 
learning process. Neither survey nor log data can reveal 
learners’ cognitive process during this specific learning 
context. For example, how students pay attention to the digital 
contents or mind-tools designed in game-based learning 
environments is still unknown. 
 The eye tracking technique has been typically adopted 
to examine human visual attention based on the eye-mind 
assumption [1]. In general, eye fixation location reflects 
attention and eye fixation duration reflects processing 
difficulty and amount of attention (the longer the information 
is fixated, the more complex it is or the deeper it is processed). 
Specifically, fixation duration varies on types of information 
(e.g. texts or graphics) and types of tasks (e.g. reading or 
problem solving). Furthermore, fixation locations and 
duration reflect the individuals’ reading strategies and prior 
knowledge or experience [2]. Besides, scan path patterns 
exhibit individuals' cognitive strategies utilized in goal-
oriented tasks [3]. The eye-tracking method has been 
successfully applied in research fields including reading [4] 
and information processing (for a detailed review, see [5]), 
arithmetic problem solving [6], human-computer interactions 
[7] and emergent literacy [8]. In sum, eye-tracking studies 
thus far have provided some insights on how students pay 
attention to read texts, view graphics or solve math problems. 
However, little study has been conducted to explore how 
students learn in a game-based learning environment, 
especially the distributions and shifts of students’ attentions.  
2 Purpose 
  With the rapid development of eye-tracking 
techniques, researchers can observe more deeply about 
learners’ cognitive process in digital learning environments, 
such as the visual attention distributions on designed digital 
contents. This poster will demonstrate a pilot study 
attempting to explore students’ visual attention allocations in 
a game-based learning environment by using eye-tracking 
techniques. Research questions focus on how students pay 
their attention to the interface design in a game-based 
learning environment. For example, how many percentages of 
time do students spend on viewing learning-related elements 
in such a learning environment? Do boys and girls pay 
different attentions to different elements designed in game-
based learning interfaces? Do successful learners and 
unsuccessful learners show different attention distributions on 
screen when they learn via a game-based learning 
environment? A mixed method including eye-tracking 
techniques is proposed and used in this study to answer the 
above research questions. 
[3] Gandini, D., Lemaire, P., & Dufau, S., “Older and 
younger adults’ strategies in approximate 
quantification,” Acta Psychologica, 129(1), 175-189, 2008. 
[4] Rayner, K., Chace, K. H., Slattery, T. J., & Ashby, J., 
“Eye movements as reflections of comprehension process in 
reading,” Scientific Studies of Reading, 10(3), 241-255, 2006. 
[5] Rayner, K., “Eye movements and information 
processing: 20 years of research,” Psychological Bulletin, 
124(3), 372-422, 1998 
[6] Hegarty, M., Mayer, R. E., & Green, C., 
“Comprehension of arithmetic word problems: Evidence from 
students’ eye fixations,” Journal of Educational Psychology, 
84(1), 76-84, 1992 
[7] Jacob, R. J., & Karn, S. K., “Eye tracking in human-
computer interaction and usability research: Ready to deliver 
the promises,” In J. H. Radach & H. Deubel (Eds.), In the 
mind's eye: Cognitive and applied aspects of eye movement 
research (pp. 573–605). Amsterdam: Elsevier Science, 2003. 
[8] Evans, M. A., & Saint-Aubin, J., “What children are 
looking at during shared storybook reading: Evidence from 
eye movement monitoring,” Psychological Science, 16(11), 
913-920, 2005. 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：白宏達 計畫編號：100-2221-E-305-002- 
計畫名稱：基於 QR 分解之雙空時區塊碼適應性解碼 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 4 75% 
因預期招收之碩
士班學生，有一名
未報到。 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
