2Final report for AFOSR 2006
Title : Specific approach for size-control III-V based quantum/nano
LED fabrication for prospective white light source
Contractor (PI) : Huey-liang Hwang (PI)
Nano Technology & MEMS Center and Institute of Electronic Engineering, National
Tsing Hua University Hsinchu, 300 Taiwan, R. O. C.
41-3. The nano-structure fabrication
We used two methods for nano-structure fabrication of GaN. The first one was
electrochemical etching method for AAO structure. The other one was E-beam pattern
structure.
1-3-1. The nano-structure fabrication by AAO method
The facility of the .anodic oxidation system was shown in Figure 3. The
heater and cooling system could be used to keep the constant temperature during
etching. The anodization procedure was shown in Figure 4. The second anodization
was applied for get the high quality nano-structure. The Figure 5. shown the
experiment results of the AAO layer. Typically, a random distribution of nano holes
with different sizes can be observed. The holes size was about 50nm, The depth of
the holes was about 0.5um. If the anodic voltage is high, AAO template will
become uniform, but the nano-holes density will be reduced. We use the low
anodic voltage process to get the uniform nano-holes.
1-3-2. The nano-structure fabrication by E-beam lithography method
The e-beam lithography system was also used to generate the photonic crystal
(PC) LED. The SEM of the 2D PC structure by E-beam lithography method was
shown in Figure 6.The diameter of the nano-hole is 300nm, the lattice constant is
500nm, and the etching depth is 100nm. This dimension was designed for
increasing the light extraction efficiency.
1-4. The optical and electrical properties of the nano-structure LED
The optical properties were compared between AAO, PC and conventional
structure LED. The photoluminescence spectrum was shown in Figure 7. The peak
wavelength is ~473nm. The AAO and PC LED separately enhanced the emission
intensity of about 3.5-fold and 4-fold relative to the as-grown LED. The was due to the
light extraction efficiency increasing due to suppress the total internal reflection effect.
The Raman spectrum was shown in Figure 8. The red shift(E2) in the peak phonon
frequency confirms the stress relaxation in PC LED and AAO structure. There was not
significant red shift observed for the E2(TO) phonon and the FWHM of the peaks are
quite narrow. The absence of disorder-induced Raman bands from the PCs indicates
good crystalline quality after process.
6Reference :
[1] T. N. Oder, J. Shakya, J. Y. Lin, and H. X. Jiang, Appl. Phys. Lett. 83, 1231(2003).
[2] T. Fujii, Y. Gao, R. Sharma, E.L. Hu, S.P. DenBaars, and S. Nakamura, Appl. Phys.
Lett. 84, 855 (2004).
8Figure 3. Anodic oxidation system.
Figure 4. The anodization procedure for AAO layer formation
10
Figure 7. Photo luminescence of AAO and PC LED
Figure 8. The Raman spectrum of the AAO and PC LED
Figure 9. The forward voltage of AAO LED and PC LED
