 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
TYMV 病感測器與提升感測器靈敏度之研究 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－005－097－ 
執行期間：2008 年 08 月 01 日至 2009 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：吳嘉哲 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：薛竣鴻、曾秉國、張志綱、陳麗同 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立中興大學機械工程學系 
 
中   華   民   國  98  年  09  月  02  日 
附件一 
transferred to a membrane (typically nitrocellulose or polyvinylidene fluoride, PVDF).The 
membrane is dipped into a buffer liquid with first antibodies in order to target viruses. After 
rinsing the membrane to remove unbound primary antibodies, the membrane is exposed to 
secondary antibodies. The secondary antibodies are linked to biotins or to reporter enzymes such 
as alkaline phosphatase or horseradish peroxidase. Several secondary antibodies will bind to one 
single primary antibody to enhance the signals. In the last step, a sensitive sheet of photographic 
film is placed against the membrane. In the mean time, the sheet is exposed to the light to create 
images of viruses. There are also three drawbacks of Western Blotting. First, it takes longer 
detection times. The detection requires more than one day. Second, the sensitivity is not satisfied 
for real-time detection. Researchers need to duplicate numerous numbers of viruses to satisfy 
sensor’s sensitivity. However, these steps will substantially increase total processing times and 
experimental hazards of researchers. Third, Western Blotting needs expensive equipments such as 
spectrophotometry.  
This paper proposes to use micro- and nano-scale sensors as mass detectors that are 
integrated with microfluidic channels to detect viruses. The sensor which includes a PZT thin 
film, a silicon membrane, recognition layers (MUA, EDC (1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) 
carbodiimide HCl), NHS (N-hydroxysuccinimide), and antibodies), and a microfluidic channel in 
Fig1. Recognition layers are used to capture viruses in the microfluidic channels. Trapped viruses 
with quantum dots on sensor’s surface were examined by confocal microscope. Because of the 
small sizes of recognition layers, antibodies and viruses, the quantum dots are used to illuminate 
those targeted molecules. Confocal microscopy is used to scan the quantum dots on sensor’s 
surface and measure the adhesion density of trapped molecules. 
Besides optical measurement, ultra sensitive mass detectors are also developed in our group. 
A PZT thin film, located at the back side of silicon membrane, vibrates the sensors at its original 
resonant frequencies. After viruses are captured by the recognition layers, the PZT film will be 
excited the sensor again to detect the shift of resonant frequencies. The masses of adhesive 
viruses could be calculated by the frequency shifts. 
PZT film
Viruses + Quantum Dots
Recognition layers 
Silicon Substrate
 
Figure 1 virus sensor 
2 VIRUS PREPARATION 
 TYMV [11, 12] are obtained from graduate institute of biotechnology, National Chung 
Hsing University, Taiwan. TYMV are propagated in cabbage leaves (Figure 2) and stored at 
-80℃. TYMV is a tymovirus of the family Tymoviridae. These viruses infect dicotyledons while 
few of them attack monocotyledons. They cause bright yellow mosaic disease showing vein 
clearing and molting of plant tissues. In this research, TYMV is used because of the following 
reasons. First, TYMV is plant virus which will not threaten researchers’ health. Second, TYMV is 
reflected laser lights from the quantum dots is then recollected by the objective lens. A 
photodetection device transforms the reflected light signal by a computer. The result of confocal 
microscopy measurement is shown in figure 5. There are just few TYMV with quantum dots on 
silicon membrane. The coverage rate of TYMV is poor. Also, some large molecules or particles 
are stuck on the surface which might results from the aggregation of MUA, EDC or NHS by 
dipping method. This result is unfavorable if researchers want to detect viruses at very low 
concentration in the solution. 
In order to know why the coverage rate of TYMV on sensors’ surface is scant, experiments 
in figure 4(a) and 4(b) are repeated while NCD4 quantum dots are used to check MUA uniformity. 
Wavelength of excitation light for NCD4 quantum dots is 405nm and wavelength of emitted light 
ranges from 400-420nm. Experimental result shows that the distribution of MUA with NCD4 is 
dispersed and aggregated in figure 6. The coverage density is just 10%. The reason might be low 
Reynolds number of the MUA molecules in the solution. If we consider a particle moves with 
some velocity through a fluidic of specific density and velocity. The Reynolds number of a 
particle [13] is shown in equation (1). 
inertial forces avR
viscous forces

        (1) 
a is the diameter of particle and v is the velocity of flow.  and  are density and viscosity of 
fluid, respectively.  
Reynolds number for TYMV in the water with a speed of order 5 110 ms  is calculated where 
the diameter of TYMV is 28nm. Density and Viscosity of water are 31000kgm  and 
3 1 110 kgm s    , respectively. Reynolds number for the TYMV ( 72.8 10 ) is negligibly small. A 
small Reynolds number means that viscosity force dominate the movement of molecules and they 
will stop moving immediately when the drag force disappears. The viruses or molecules is just 
subject to Brownian motion and move randomly.  
When TYMV with quantum dots in DI water dip over the silicon membrane for 30 minutes, 
particles move short with Brownian motion and couldn’t go down to the surface of silicon 
membrane. In the meantime, some particles aggregate and the diameters of particles grow. If the 
inertial force of particles such as gravity larger than viscosity force, particles will move toward 
sensor’s surface. However, this movement is irregular and particles will disperse randomly. To 
solve this phenomenon, a microfluidic channel in figure 7 is used to avoid aggregation. We try to 
use the microfluidic channel to deposit MUA, EDC/NHS, antibodies and TYMV layers.  
MUA
EDC/NHS
TYMV + Quantum Dots
 
Figure 4 Fabrication of recognition layers 
the treatment O2 plasma could get strength at 4N. However, this strength is too large if we are 
going to peel off microfluidic channel to get good transmission when the measurement of 
confocal microscope. The pressure of 50 mtorr got smaller bonding strength although the power 
ranges from 10~100W. This strength is not adequate for pumping fluid inside the microfluidic 
channel. 30mtorr of pressure and 60W of power are used in this experiment for the previous 
consideration. 
 
Figure 8 Fabrication of PDMS microfluidic channel 
power (W)
bo
nd
in
g 
st
re
ng
th
 (N
)
 
Figure 9 bonding strength of PDMS microfluidic Channel 
5 MICROFLUIDIC ENVIRONMENT 
 After the fabrication processes of microfluidic channels for the virus sensor, a syringe 
pump is used to pump MUA solution into the sensor’s surface. MUA solution was circulated in 
the microfluidic channel to get uniform coverage. Figure 10 shows the measurement of NCD4 
quantum dots in confocal microscope when the infusion rate of syringe pump is 2ml/h. MUA and 
NCD4 layers in the microfluidic environment distribute more uniform than in the stationary flow 
environment in figure 6. We used the photometry method to measure the brightness of confocal 
microscopy measurement. When the fluorescent intensity is larger than 10% of excitation 
intensity, this area was calculated with NCD4 quantum dots. On the contrary, the fluorescent 
intensity is smaller than 10% of excitation intensity, the area was considered as negative reaction. 
The coverage rate of MUA/NCD4 layer is determined by the percentages of positive areas. 
Figure 11 shows the coverage rate of MUA and NCD4 layer with different infusion rates of 
syringe pump. We can find that the coverage rate is 56% when the infusion rate is 0.3 ml/hr. 
When the infusion rate is 2ml/hr, 80% of coverage rate can be obtained. However, coverage rate 
will reduce to 23% if the infusion rate is 5ml/hr. This is an interesting result although we don’t 
really know the mechanism of reaction on the sensor’s surface. According to enzyme kinetics, 
PDMS
Substrate  
Figure 12 Microfluidic Channel with a rising ridge 
 
(a)         (b) 
Figure 13 (a) NCD4 confocal micrograph near the ridge [Best viewed in color] (b) simulated 
stream lines  
 After controlling the microfluid environment, TYMV with quantum dots are observed 
again by confocal microscopy. The result shows that TYMV in controlled microfluidic 
environment distribute denser than TYMV in dipping solution. The TYMV also spread uniform 
in microfluidic environment. This result will be helpful for further virus sensing.   
 
Figure 14 TYMV in confocal microscope (microfluidic environment) [Best viewed in color] 
6 CONCLUSIONS 
This paper discusses how to increase the adhesive density of linkers and viruses 
on sensor’s surface in the microfluidic channels. We propose to design the flow 
movement in microfluidic channel to control the adhesive density of MUA and 
TYMV. Adhesive density of linker (MUA) and viruses (TYMV) with specific 
quantum dots were measured by confocal microscope. Results show that TYMV and 
MUA layers disperse randomly by dipping method. Infusion rate, flow rate, and 
transverse flow could affect the adhesive density of recognition layer on sensors’ 
surface. Adhesion densities of MUA and TYMV could be attained 70~80% in 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-005-097 
計畫名稱 TYMV病感測器與提升感測器靈敏度之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
吳嘉哲 
國立中興大學機械工程學系助理教授 
會議時間地點 08/03/2008~08/06/2008, New York City, NY, USA 
會議名稱 The ASME 2008 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computer in Engineering Conference 
發表論文題目 Drilling of Microholes on Silicon Wafer With Ultrasonic Workpiece Holder 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
美洲機械工程學會 2008年設計工程技術暨電腦及資訊在工程研討會議 IDETC/CIE 2008
（The ASME 2008 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and Computer in 
Engineering Conference）為機械設計工程領域一年一度的盛會，大會主辦者雖為 ASME，但
有超過 50個學術性學會合作參與，如 IEEE、ASCE、日本之 JSME、英國及澳洲之 IE、以及
海峽兩岸三地之機械工程學會等，事實上是一國際性會議。自 08/03/2008 至 08/06/2008於美
國紐約州紐約市舉行，會議議場在紐約市 Brooklyn區之Marriott Hotel at the Brooklyn Bridge，
如圖 1所示。Brooklyn位於紐約市的南側，經由著名的 Brooklyn Bridge和紐約的Manhattan
區相鄰，雖然不是紐約最熱閙的地區，但交通尚稱方便，雖然 Brooklyn區的治安較讓人不放
心，但會場位於紐約法院對面，事實上治安並無問題。本人與同仁王國禎教授提早到大會網
頁註冊，所以可以住在Marriott Hotel裡面，紐約消費相當昂貴，每晚住宿不含稅約 US$249。 
IDETC/CIE 2008 為北美設計工程領域一年一度最重要的盛會， 大會一如往年，是結合
多個與機械設計相關的子會議所組成，本年度包含下列八個子會議： 
z 34th Design Automation Conference (DAC ) 
z 32nd Annual Mechanisms and Robotics Conference (MR) 
z 28th Computers and Information in Engineering Conference (CIE) 
z 20th International Conference on Design Theory and Methodology (DTM) 
z 13th Design for Manufacturing and the Lifecycle Conference (DFMLC) 
z 5th Symposium on International Design and Design Education (DEC) 
z 2nd International Conference on Micro- and Nanosystems (MNS) 
z 10th International Conference on Advanced Vehicle and Tire Technologies (AVTT) 
哈佛大學醫學院參訪過程： 
筆者參加完 IDETC/CIE 2008，順道到 Boston 參訪 Harvard/MIT 共同成立的 HST 部門 
(Health Science and Technology)。HST的研究人員/教師有約 50人左右。一部份來自醫院，一
部份是 Harvard醫學院教授，一部份是MIT教授。我們主要拜訪的是M. Toner教授的實驗室。
第一天雙方先介紹認識，然後簡報研究工作與興趣。第二天我們前往 Toner教授在 Charlestown 
的實驗中心。這間實驗中心是 NIBIB(National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and 
Bioengineering)所設立的 BioMEMs(Micro-electro-mechanical system)中心。建築物產權是屬於
MGH(Massachusetts General Hospital)，由 Toner教授負責。筆者的大學同學許佳賢博士還帶領
筆者參觀實驗室。 
NIBIB是美國 NIH(National Institute of Health)下的一個分支機構，主要是推動醫學影像和
醫學工程領域的研究。他們補助研究計畫並設立研究中心。目前全國有 20個 P41中心。每個
中心分別交由一個 PI 負責。Toner 教授的研究中心主要利用 lab-on-a-chip 的概念從事下面幾
個方向的研究：(1)篩選血液細胞樣本。(2)利用小體積，促進細胞內生化過程。(3)在可控制的
微環境下，研究細胞的生長。這些實驗多半需要利用MEMs技術，製造捕捉細胞和提供細胞
生長的微結構晶片。Toner教授在設計 lab-on-a-chip時特別注意到實用性，這可以作為國內相
關機構的參考。例如 (1)相關檢測技術必須能夠轉移給醫院的醫護人員使用，設備需要操作
簡單。(2)儀器的造價不能過高，使用環境也不能有限制。因此研究團隊摒棄了許多在工程研
究上的一般作法，例如不由內部研究人員製造並發展太新穎的MEMs晶片。而是在初步測試
後，決定晶片規格，再向外面的公司訂製並大量生產。這樣的作法從工程觀點看起來缺乏研
究創新，但是卻可以減少開發以及製造新穎晶片所需的時間，研究者可以將力量完全投入在
生醫相關的研究。 
以一個篩選血液細胞樣本的實驗來說，目標是測試 HIV病毒感染者對新藥的反應。醫學
上的需求是在投藥予病人後，能在短時間內瞭解藥物在體內的作用。所應用的檢測方法是分
類與檢測血液中的 T細胞數目。傳統的檢測方法需要耗費較長的時間以增加檢測準確度，但
也讓掌握病情發展更為困難。因此研究上希望引入快速檢測的生醫晶片方法。首先在晶片基
板上製作與細胞尺寸相仿的凹凸結構，增加吸附表面積。再覆以一層能和目標 T細胞膜上蛋
白質接合的特殊生化分子。因此晶片具有選擇性，可以僅吸附特殊細胞。將晶片封裝好後，
3. 因通貨膨脹之故，交通旅費、住宿以及生活費用價格飛漲。筆者購買的機票為 57800
元但依照行政院標準到紐約的機票為 46000元。住宿為大會主辦的飯店，住宿每晚 US249但
是依國科會標準生活費一天只准報銷 US231元，然依規定皆不足以支付實際支出的費用，建
議調整相關規定。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容： 
1. CD Proceedings of the 2008 ASME 2008 International Design Engineering Technical 
Conferences and Computer in Engineering Conference. 
2. Program of the 2008 ASME 2008 International Design Engineering Technical Conferences and 
Computer in Engineering Conference. 
五、致謝 
感謝國科會計畫 NSC97-2221-E-005-097- 補助部分經費；另國立中興大學提供配合之補
助，使得此次出國參加會議得以成行且獲益良多。 
 
 
圖一 IDETC/CIE 2008大會會場Marriott Hotel at the Brooklyn Bridge 
 
圖二 論文發表場地 
