 2 
intercity transportation systems connect the two major cities in the country, Taipei and 
Kaohsiung, which are approximately 350 km apart. There are several bus companies, an 
airline, a traditional rail system, and a newly constructed high-speed rail system. Due to 
geographical reasons, all these service routes share the same transportation corridor, and are 
largely parallel to each other. Similar situations where parallel systems serve the same 
corridor also exist elsewhere worldwide. In South Korea, the newly-developed high-speed rail 
(Korea Train Express) competes with existing CR along the northwest–southeast corridor 
(Chang and Chang, 2004; Park and Ha, 2006); in Japan, a new HSR with magnetically 
levitated trains will provide faster service at over 500 kph along the Tokyo–Nagoya–Osaka 
corridor, where the famous Shinkansen has been serving since 1964(Yao and Morikawa, 
2005). 
Most literature studied how parallel transportation systems compete with each other by 
traffic assignment or by travel demand estimating models. Yao and Morikawa (2005) 
developed an integrated intercity travel demand model and found that the demand for intercity 
transportation systems increases with decreasing travel time, travel cost, access time, and 
improvement in service frequency. Chang and Chang (2004) proposed static traffic 
assignment-based methods to predict the market share of high-speed rail in Korea. Roman et 
al.(2007) applied disaggregated mode choice models with mixed revealed and stated 
preferences information to analyze potential competition of the high-speed rail with the air 
transport in Spain. Allport and Brown(1993) evaluated the economic benefits of the European 
HSR network and suggested that the relative impact of high-speed rail is more likely to occur 
in smaller cities which are less well served by air with infrequent flights. Givoni and Banister 
(2006), and Givoni (2007) suggested airlines using railway services as additional spokes from 
a hub airport to complement and substitute for existing aircraft services by examining the 
potential intermodal integration at Heathrow airport.  
Conventional mode choice models, including modal split problem, traffic assignment 
problem and discrete choice method, often apply the principle of user equilibrium, the logit 
model or variations of the logit model to determine the market share of each mode. On the 
other hand, beginning as pure mathematics, game theory provides a set of solution to narrow 
each player’s choice and tell us what outcome to expect and how to achieve that outcome. 
Early work by Fisk (1984) applied game theory to analyze Nash noncooperative game 
between intercity carriers and Stackelberg game of signal optimization problem. Recent 
works extensively focused on competitive behaviors and decision variables of airline industry 
(Adler, 2001; Bhaumik, 2002; Hansen, 1990; Martin and Roman, 2003; Schipper et al., 2007; 
 4 
services between cities R and S, which can include airlines, buses, high speed rail, convention 
rail, and others. Each service has its own terminal(s) in each of the two cities, where different 
terminals can be physically located together or separated. Such a system can be modeled as a 
network (Sheffi, 1985) as shown in Figure 1, where terminal nodes r1 through r6 represent the 
stations (or airport) in city R, and terminal nodes s1 through s6 represent their counterparts in 
city S. Links between corresponding node pairs correspond to transportation services 
provided by these systems, which will be selected upon by passengers. For example, the link 
(r1,s1) in Figure 1 is the airline service from city R to city S; links (r2,s2), (r3, s3), and (r4,s4) are 
three parallel bus links representing three different bus companies, which also provide 
transportation service from city R to city S; and links (r5,s5) and (r6,s6) are high speed rail and 
convention rail service, respectively. In the case that a transportation service has more than 
one stations and connect with another transportation service at one or both of the cities, the 
stations shared with other services are regarded as the transfer station, and rest are auxiliary 
stations. For example, nodes r6 and s6 in Figure 1 are the transfer stations of the conventional 
train system, and nodes r7 and s7 are auxiliary stations. These nodes for auxiliary stations 
enable the network to capture the situation where two or more services complement each 
other by one service acting as the feeder for another. For example, again referring to Figure 1, 
passengers can board a conventional rail at node r7, travel to node r6, and transfer to high 
speed rail at node r5, provided that nodes r5 and r6 are physically located together (which is 
the case in many cities). Finally, each city has an additional virtual super-node that connects 
to all the station nodes at the origin-city by dummy links, and another super-node that is 
connected to from all the station nodes at the destination-city. These virtual nodes are the 
source node and the sink node where flow, which represent passengers, enter and exit the 
network. One should note that the source node and the sink node do not represent the spatial 
distribution of the passengers’ origin and destination points within the two cities, which we 
shall discuss in a later section. 
 
 6 
 
Figure 2. Possible routes within the rail system. 
 
2.2 The price 
In general, transportation service providers have an array of instruments to compete with 
each other. Some common mechanisms include service frequencies, station locations, travel 
time, and ticket price. Among these, price is often the main tool a firm can use in the short run 
in response to competition (Tirole, 1988). Exercise of other means often requires high cost, 
long time, or both, and thus can be done in the long term basis only. As such, this current 
model considers price as the only competition instrument used by the players. 
Transportation service providers are allowed to set their prices in principal. However, 
governments often impose regulations of different degrees. Reflecting this reality, we analyze 
our problem as a price competition model with rigid cost structures, where, for all the 
transportation services, passengers are charged a fare proportional to the mileage traveled in 
that mode. We also consider the case that the unit distance fare for each transportation mode 
(air, bus, high-speed rail, and convention rail) is subject to governmental regulation that 
specifies a ceiling (maximum) and floor (minimum) price. Within this range, every 
transportation service provider sets its own price. 
 
2.3 Passengers’ choice behavior 
In our model, passengers choose among available travel routes according to a set of 
elements, including (a) the decision rule, (b) the attribute of the individual, and (c) available 
alternatives and their aspects (Ben-Akiva, 1985). The decision rule employed in the current 
model is a simple one based on the utility maximization hypothesis (Bhat, 1995): an 
individual selects the available alternative with the least generalized cost. We also assume 
 8 
to her destination point from the exit station of her transportation system. 
Table 1 
Definitions of parameters and sets. 
Parameter and set Definition 
n  Number of possible routes. 
d  Number of passengers. 
y  Number of airlines. 
z  Number of bus companies. 
A  The set of airlines yaa ,...,1 . 
B  The set of bus companies zbb ,...,1 . 
R  The set of railroads CRHSR, . 
M  The set of all players RBA ,, . 
N  The set of all possible routes n,...,1 . 
D  The set of all passengers d,...,1 .  ii PlPu ,  The upper and lower bound of unit distance fare for player i , Mi .
iC  Operating cost per passenger- kilometer of player i , Mi .  
j
iT  The travel distance of player i  on route j , Nj , Mi . 
j
iTC  The travel time cost of player i  on route j , Nj , Mi . 
j
traTC  The transfer time cost on route j , Nj . 
j
kGTCO  
The generalized cost for a passenger to access to the intercity transport 
network from his or her origin point, DkNj  , . 
j
kGTCD  
The generalized cost for a passenger to access to his or her destination 
point from the intercity transport network, DkNj  , .  
 
Table 2 
Definitions of variables. 
Variable Definition 
ip  Unit distance fare of player i , Mi . 
j
kgtc  Generalized travel cost of passenger k  for route j , DkNj  , .
jq  The number of passengers who travel on route j , Nj . 
i  The profit of player i , Mi . 
 
The passenger pays a cost for each of the three segments of a trip. Consider a passenger 
k who travels from city R to city S, and refer to Table 1 for the definition of parameters, Table 
2 for the list of variables, and Figure 2 for the system model. The total generalized travel cost 
j
kgtc  that she realizes if she chooses travel route j is the sum of the cost to access the 
transportation system, the ticket price, travel time cost, transfer time cost (if applicable), and 
the cost to egress from the transportation system, which can be expressed as Equation (1). 
 10 
s.t  uii
l
i PpP   (3) 
    jjDkNjgtcgtckq jkjkj  ',,''    Nj  (4) 
In the model above, the objective function (2) is the total revenue of provider i, 
constraint (3) ensures the floor and ceiling of its price as regulated by the government, and 
equation (4) equals jq  to the number of passengers who, according to each individual’s 
attribute, conceives travel route j as the one that has the least generalized cost to complete her 
travel. 
 
 
3. Solving for Nash equilibrium 
3.1. The Nash equilibrium 
A Nash equilibrium is a profile of strategies, one for each player, such that each player’s 
strategy is an optimal response to the other players’ strategies (Tirole, 1988). It describes the 
situation that, when reached, no player can improve its own revenue by unilaterally changing 
its strategy. The equilibrium is built upon the assumption that all the players predict that 
equilibrium will occur, and predict that all the other players predict the same (Fudenberg and 
Tirole, 1991). In our model, the Nash equilibrium is a situation that each transportation 
service provider sets their price in a way that maximizes their own profit in response to the 
anticipated play of other players. 
The Nash equilibrium condition then can be expressed as: 
     iiiiii pppp ,,      Mi . (5) 
 
3.2. The solution heuristic 
The Nash equilibrium is often obtained by solving systems of partial differentiation 
equations of the payoff functions of the players with respect to prices (for example, 
Amrouche (2008)  and De Borger(2007) ). In our model, the payoff functions, which are 
described by equations (2), (3), and (4), depend on passenger counts, which in turn are 
determined by the distribution of time value among the passengers, as well as the locations of 
them among the grids that divide the cities. None of these are assumed to be continuous. As 
such, we propose an iterative numerical algorithm to solve for Nash equilibrium for our 
model. Figure 4 presents the flow chart. 
 12 
4. Numerical example and computational results 
We take the north-south corridor transportation market in Taiwan as the numerical 
example to demonstrate the price competition of the middle distance market. This case studies 
transportation between Taipei and Kaohsiung, which has the largest intercity transport 
demand and longest travel distance around 350 km. The values of the parameters in the 
example are derived from real data. The solver is written in the C programming language and 
be performed on personal computers equipped with 3.16 GHz - 3.42 GHz CPUs and 3.46GB 
memory space.  
 
4.1 The intercity public transport market of Taiwan 
The two railroad systems in Taiwan are Taiwan Railway Administration, a 
government-owned CR system, and Taiwan High-speed Rail Corporation. Both rail systems 
provide north-south intercity service along the entire west corridor from Taipei to Kaohsiung. 
HSR is a relatively new system that started operating in 2007. It has only 7 stations and its 
non-stop travel time is about 1.5 hours from end to end. The two systems share a total of 3 
stations, including the two HSR terminals Taipei and Kaohsiung, and a third station Taichung 
which is located approximately halfway between the other two. Additionally, there are four 
domestic airlines and numerous bus companies providing intercity public transport service. 
The current market share is shown in table 3. All the modes are under the government’s 
regulation, including ceiling price and service quality regulation. 
 
Table 3 
Market share of interurban modes in Taiwan (2005~2007) 
mode 2005 percentage 2006 percentage 2007 percentage 
HSR - - - - 1,556 3.72% 
CR 16,956 39.25% 16,899 39.97% 16,969 40.56% 
Intercity buses 25,282 58.53% 24,522 58.00% 24,240 57.93% 
Domestic airlines 957 2.22% 861 2.04% 632 1.51% 
Sum 43,195 100.00% 42,282 100.00% 41,841 100.00% 
Unit: 1,000 passengers.  
Source: Department of Statistics (2007) 
 
4.2 Numerical examples and values of parameters 
The numerical example has one airline, three buses, one CR, and one HSR to correspond 
to the actual market. Only CR can provide service linked directly to HSR as feeders. Table 4 
 14 
Table 5.  
Average time value of passengers in Taiwan. 
Trip Purpose Time Value  
(NT$/Min) Business Travel Other 
1996 2.3 2.3 2.1 
2001 2.9 2.9 2.6 
Source: Chiang (2003) 
 
4.3 Computational results and sensitivity analysis 
We test scenarios of different mode combinations and analyze the impact of passengers’ 
time value by testing its average value from 1.5 to 6.0 (NT$/Min), i.e. about the half and two 
times of the time value of business trip in 2001. Passengers’ time values of a certain OD pair 
are allotted to high or low time value randomly by applying a random seeds. Each scenario 
costs about 4 hours computing with ten sets of varied random seeds. The computing results 
are aggregated and illustrated in Figure 6 - 18. 
 
 
Figure 6. Modes’ price in the market composed of three bus companies. 
 
 16 
 
Figure 10. Modes’ price in the market composed of a bus company and the CR. 
 
Figure 11. Modes’ profit in the market composed of a bus company and the CR. 
 
 
Figure 12. Modes’ passenger numbers in the market composed of a bus company and the CR. 
 
 
 18 
 
Figure 16. Modes’ price in the market composed of the whole modes. 
 
Figure 17. Modes’ profit in the market composed of the whole modes. 
 
 
Figure 18. Passenger numbers of modes in the market composed of the whole modes. 
 
In scenarios where the market is composed of modes with similar features, the average 
 20 
A numerical example based on the intercity public transport market of Taiwan 
demonstrates the model as well as the heuristic, followed by the sensitivity of the equilibrium 
state to passengers’ average time value. The computational results of scenarios composed of 
different mode combinations are in line with expectation.  
The proposed model can be extended in several directions. Studies should be undertaken 
to analyze how the features of feeders impact the equilibrium state, including the service 
frequency, the travel and transform time, the travel haul, the number of stops. More research 
is needed on the separate pricing policy of feeders and the CR. Finally, there will be a demand 
for new numerical solution techniques to solve the increasingly complicated models. 
 
 
Acknowledgements 
This work was partially funded by National Science Council funding NSC 
96-2628-E-006 -133 -MY2. 
 
References 
Adler, N. (2001). Competition in a deregulated air transportation market. European Journal 
of Operational Research, 129(2), 337-345. 
Amrouche, N., & Zaccour, G. (2008). A shelf-space-dependent wholesale price when 
manufacturer and retailer brands compete. OR Spectrum, 361-383. 
Ben-Akiva, M. E., & Lerman, S. R. (1985). Discrete choice analysis: theory and application 
to travel demand: MIT press. 
Bhat, C. R. (1995). A heteroscedastic extreme value model of intercity travel mode choice. 
Transportation Research Part B, 29(6), 471-483. 
Bhaumik, P. K. (2002). Regulating the domestic air travel in India: an umpire's game. Omega, 
30(1), 33-44. 
Chang, I., & Chang, G. L. (2004). A network-based model for estimating the market share of 
a new high-speed rail system. Transportation Planning & Technology, 27(2), 67-90. 
De Borger, B., Dunkerley, F., & Proost, S. (2007). Strategic investment and pricing decisions 
in a congested transport corridor. Journal of Urban Economics, 62(2), 294-316. 
Fisk, C. S. (1984). Game theory and transportation systems modelling. Transportation 
Research Part B: Methodological, 18(4-5), 301-313. 
Fudenberg, D., & Tirole, J. (1991). Game Theory. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. 
Givoni, M. (2007). Role of the railways in the future of air transport. Transportation Planning 
 22 
Zubieta, L. (1998). A network equilibrium model for oligopolistic competition in city bus 
services. Transportation Research Part B: Methodological, 32(6), 413-422. 
 
2the previous phase, and reduces the crane’s working time by making adjustments, also through 
iterations. These adjustments are also done randomly, but the MIP, guided by its objective 
function, favors replacing time-consuming long-distance or cross-bay container movements 
with faster short or same-bay ones. By algorithmic design, the third phase cannot increase the 
total number of container movements, but can decrease it if such a way is detected. 
We test the heuristic with 50 randomly generated instances, where the stacks are deliberately 
arranged in a particularly unfavorable “upside-down” fashion, in that containers due to be 
lifted out earlier are always placed below those that are needed later. The number of stacks in 
each bay is 16 for all the instances, while the number of bays ranges from 1 to 10 for a 
maximum height of 6, and ranges from 1 to 6 for a maximum height of 8. The number of 
containers in the yard ranges from 70 to 720, depending on the yard size. The yards are 
approximately 75% full, which is slightly higher than real cases. Numerical testing results 
show that the heuristic performs well, and is able to solve instances with more than 700 
containers within a few hours on a personal computer. This problem scale is much larger than 
those seen in the literature, and lies within the range of real-world applications. In most of the 
cases tested, the number of movements in the working sequence reaches or approaches the 
lower bound in a few iterations in phase two. Most of the movements in the final sequences 
move containers between two stacks of the same bay, or between nearby stacks in neighboring 
bays.
Testing results show that the heuristic is able to solve instances whose sizes are within the 
range of real cases, and thus of practical use to the industry. Important directions for future 
research include extending the heuristic to consider multi-lift cranes, and to coordinate 
multiple cranes working simultaneously in the same yard. 
Key words: container terminal, container retrieval, integer programming, neighborhood search 
