1. Introduction 
Chitosan is a popular biomaterial because it is biocompatible, biodegradable and 
possesses high antibiotic activity [1-3]. The physical properties of chitosan, such as 
solubility and viscosity in different solvents, have been investigated in recent research [4, 
5], which showed that chitosan is suitable for practical applications. For example, by 
controlling variables in the preparation process, such as chitosan concentration, pH value, 
solvent composition and so on, the chitosan solution can be manufactured into substrates 
with various shapes and different porosity [6].  
  Due to the aforementioned advantages, chitosan is widely used as a scaffold in tissue 
engineering. The design of scaffolds plays an important role in tissue engineering. 
Biocompatibility is the most basic requirement for the scaffold. High cell affinity and 
specific activity is also required. In early research, chitosan scaffolds were applied in bone 
tissue engineering due to its biocompatibility. However, in addition to biocompatibility, 
some previous researches reported that chitosan was osteo-conductive and osteo-inductive 
[7-9]. SEM images published by Fakhry et al. have indicated that compared to fibroblasts, 
osteoblasts attached on chitosan substrates at a higher rate [10].Unfortunately, existing 
research is limited as it only analyzes the chitosan-osteoblasts interaction through 
microscopic images. These efforts [7-10] merely provide us indirect, limited and 
non-quantitative information of cell adhesion onto chitosan surfaces. Measurement of the 
attachment force at the interface between chitosan and different cell types has never been 
performed. It is hypothesized that there is a specific interaction between chitosan and 
bone cells, but this has never been proven. The main difficulty in measuring of the force 
of this interaction is that it is extremely small. The interaction between the surface of 
biomaterials, including chitosan, and cells is only in the scale of nano-newtons. Thus, 
Friedrichs , Jonne Helenius & Daniel J Muller, Quantifying cellular adhesion to 
extracellular matrix components by single-cell force spectroscopy, Nature Protocols 5, 
1353–1361 (1 July 2010)]. Most significantly, the interforce measured by this method 
may not be representative of the adhesion force in vivo, especially for cells in an 
environment without obvious fluid flow, such as osteoblasts. That is the reason why the 
washing assay has been never applied for osteoblasts and chondrocytes. 
 Atomic force microscopy (AFM), a very high-resolution type of scanning probe 
microscopy, provides not only topographic information but also measures the force 
between the probing tip and the substrates of interest. By recording the deflection of the 
cantilever on which the tip is mounted and applying Hooke's law, a force-distance curve 
can be obtained from the AFM analysis. In the retraction section of the force-distance 
curve, there are three steps in the changes of cantilever deflection. A typical example of 
such a force-distance curve is described in Figure 1. Initially, the deflection is reduced due 
to the recovery of cantilever, which corresponds to points 3 and 4 in Figure 1. In the 
second step, the deflection is reversed after passing the lowest point, and an increase of 
cantilever deflection is observed in the curve between points 4 and 5 in Figure 1. The 
minimum value (point 5 in Figure 1) on the force-distance curve corresponds to a break of 
contact. The value of the hysteresis (often termed the “pull-off value”) represents the 
adhesion force between the tip on the cantilever and the surface [17]. In the final step, the 
deflection keeps remains constant after the tip has completely separated from the surface 
of the sample. The final step takes place on the curve between points 6 and 7 in Figure 1. 
  AFM can be used to measure the force in a wide range from 10pN to 106 pN [18], 
which is suitable for measuring the small adhesion forces between biomolecules, 
including DNA entanglement [19], antigen-antibody complexes [20] and cell-integrin 
binding [9]. However, the AFM tip is made of silicon or silicon nitride. In order to 
throughout this study. For use in cell culture, α-minimum essential medium (αMEM) was 
purchased from Sigma. Fetal bovine serum (FBS), sodium pyruvate, and 
penicillin-streptomycin-amphotericin were purchased from Gibco.  
2. 2 Modification of the AFM cantilever 
In this research, chitosan was fabricated into beads and immobilized onto the AFM 
cantilever before the measurement of chitosan-cell interactions. The chitosan microsphere 
was prepared through a freeze-gelation method [22]. The chitosan/acetic acid solution was 
briefly sprayed into a NaOH-glycerol coagulant bath at low temperature (-20°C) and the 
gelation of chitosan formed microspheres. After drying at room temperature, the chitosan 
spheres were completed with a diameter ranging from 60 to 120 µm.  
For the next step, the chitosan was immobilized on the end of the cantilever. These tips 
were used to measure the adhesion force of chitosan-cell pairs. To functionalize the 
chitosan bead with RGD immobilization groups, an RGD solution of 1 wt% was dropped 
onto the chitosan bead. After drying at room temperature, the RGD-chitosan microspheres 
were deemed ready for use as probes in the AFM. 
The chitosan or RGD-chitosan microsphere was then glued onto the end of a cantilever 
by using the micromanipulator. Prior to and following the AFM analysis, the cantilever, 
with the attached chitosan bead, was sputter coated with gold and examined by the 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM). 
2. 3 Cell culture for use in cell attachment spreading testing 
Cells cultured included osteoblasts, hGF, UMR and MF. Osteoblasts were cultured in 
αMEM supplemented with 10 ﹪ FBS, 1mM sodium pyruvate and 100 U/mL 
penicillin-streptomycin- amphotericin, at 37°C in 5 ﹪CO2. UMR and hGF cells were 
force-distance curve was obtained and the adhesion force evaluated by Hook’s law, 
ZkF ∆×= , where k is the spring constant and ΔZ is the deflection of the cantilever. (請
參考 response to reviewers 把ΔZ 的定義加入) The deflection, ΔZ, was defined as the 
lowest point on the force-distance curve. This definition was consistent with methods in 
previous research [17]. In Figure 1, ΔZ is marked by a dashed line. 
 
3. Results and discussion  
3. 1 Modified AFM tip characterization 
The SEM micro-photos in Figure 2 show the successful immobilization of the chitosan 
bead on the AFM cantilever by using the mini-probe station. Figure 3 shows that the bead 
is still intact after the AFM operation, indicating that there is no permanent structural 
change on the chitosan bead. This is important because fracture of immobilized chitosan 
spheres may change the area of contact between the chitosan bead and substrate. The 
results indicate that the probes were not altered during measurements and that the 
measurements are reproducible.  
3. 2 Measurement of adhesion force 
The force curves obtained by AFM are shown in Figure 4. The retraction curves of 
chitosan-cell (without RGD immobilization) in Figures 4 (a), (c) and (d) are almost linear 
without waves. Conversely, the variation of chitosan-hGF retraction curve, obtained from 
Figure 4 (b), in this range is comparatively large. Lehenkari et. al. have pointed out that if 
the retraction segment between the lowest point and the return point is irregular, then 
there should be multiple forces entanglement between the tip and the substrate surface [9]. 
The retraction curve of for chitosan-hGF appears to be non-linear with many waves; this 
interaction between chitosan and osteoblastic cells would also be high, because hGF can 
express some osteoblastic characteristics. The smallest adhesion force appeared to be in 
chitosan-UMR and chitosan-MF pairs. The low rate of interaction between in these cases 
proves that the affinity of other tissues to chitosan is not so high, compared to between 
chitosan and bone cells. The chitosan-UMR interaction is reasonably small; this is due to 
the naturally low adhesive ability of sarcoma cells to the environmental matrix [26]. 
Comparing these adhesion forces quantitatively demonstrates that the 
chitosan–osteoblasts adhesion force (209.3 nN) and chitosan-hGF adhesion force (144.9 
nN) are about 3.3 times and 2.3 times higher respectively, than the chitosan-MF cell force 
(61.8 nN). Previous techniques of cell separation, using only materials’ surfaces [27], 
without expensive or time-consuming equipments and processes, can produce a separation 
ratio for different cells of approximately 2. Clearly, for osteoblasts and osteoblastic cells, 
the separation ratio provided by the chitosan surface is much better than others. This can 
be applied for cell isolation or purification. Thus, chitosan could be designed for cell 
separation because of its excellent selectivity for osteoblasts and osteoblastic cells. This 
could also be promising for the isolation of multipotent cells or cells with various 
subgroups. 
Figure 5 shows the adhesion force between the RGD-chitosan bead and cells 
quantitatively. After the immobilization of RGD onto chitosan surfaces, the adhesion 
force increased by 1.1 to 1.3 times the original level. This proves that RGD 
immobilization can enhance the cell affinity of chitosan, which corresponds to our 
previous research [28]. Additionally, the enhancement of the adhesion force due to affect 
of RGD is greater for osteoblasts. This result suggests that RGD would be more effective 
on osteoblasts than the other cells used in this research, which agrees with XXX et al.’s 
observation by counting the number of attached cells [Biomaterials 25(2004) 3023-3028]. 
roughness, the amounts of water meniscus formed between chitosan and cells would be 
approximately constant. These results suggest that the water meniscus that forms between 
cells and the chitosan sphere was not the main factor affecting the adhesion force. In other 
words, the specific interaction between chitosan and cells was mainly a result of 
biomolecules interacting with the cell membrane and chemical groups on chitosan. 
 
3. 3 Cell attachment and cell spreading result 
Figure 7 shows cell attachment onto chitosan films and commercial culture dishes. It is 
clear that osteoblasts and hGF attached to chitosan films faster than UMR and MF cells. 
The results indicate that the affinity between chitosan and osteoblast/osteoblastic cells 
would be larger than to other types of cells. This outcome is consistent with the 
measurements of the adhesion force in Figure 5. The higher interforce between the cell 
and materials would result in faster cell attachment at the beginning of culture, which was 
previously hypothesized [10]. This study is the first work to demonstrate this behavior. 
The difference in the attachment rate of cells onto chitosan surfaces could be applied to 
cell separation; this was proposed in the previous section. Alternately, cell attachment 
rates of different cells onto commercial culture dishes would be similar. This phenomenon 
shows that chitosan surface indeed possesses cell selectivity while no such effect is 
demonstrated when using commercial culture dishes. 
Figure 8 shows cell spreading areas on chitosan films. To avoid the effect of deposited 
protein layers on chitosan surfaces, medium without FBS was used in this experiment. In 
the absence of FBS, it is likely that almost no protein deposited on the chitosan films 
before the cell attachment, and the cells were able to directly react to the chitosan surface. 
The spreading area of cultured cells is related to the extension of lamellipodia by actin 
attachment and spreading. The experimental results also prove that the immobilization of 
RGD can enhance cellular affinity of chitosan, especially for osteoblasts. The high cell 
selectivity of chitosan can be used for the isolation of cells with different subgroups, such 
as hGF or the other multipotent cells.  
 
 
Acknowledgement 
The authors would like to sincerely appreciate the financial support from National 
Science Council, Taiwan (NSC 98-2221-E-011 -061)  
 
 
References 
[1] Chio B K, Kin K Y, Yoo Y J, Oh S J, Choi J H, and Kin C Y 2001 In vitro 
antimicrobial activity of a chitooligosaccharide mixture against actinobacillus 
actinomycetemcomitants and streptococcus mutants Int. J. Antimicrob. Agents 18 
553–557 
[2] Jia Z, Shen D and Xu W 2001 Synthesis and antibacterial activities of quaternary 
ammonium salt of chitosan Carbohydr. Res. 333 1–6 
[3] Shi C, Zhu Z, Ran X, Wang M, Su Y and Cheng T 2006 Therapeutic potential of 
chitosan and its derivatives in regenerative medicine J. Surg. Res. 133 185-192 
[4] Chen P H, Hwang Y H, Kuo T Y, Liu F H, Lai J Y and Hsieh H J 2007 Improvement 
in the properties of chitosan membranes using natural organic acid solutions as 
solvents for chitosan dissolution J. Med. Biol. Eng. 27 23 – 28 
[5] Ho M H, Hsieh C C, Hsiao S W and Thien D V H 2010 Fabrication of asymmetric 
chitosan GTR membranes for the treatment of periodontal disease Carbohydr. Polym. 
(in press) 
[17] Behrend O P, Oulevey F, Gourdon D, Dupas E, Kulik A J, Gremaud G and  
Burnham N A 1998 Intermittent contact: tapping or hammering? Appl. Phys. A 66, 
219-221. 
[18] Helenius J, Heisenberg C P, Gaub H E and Muller D J 2008 Single-cell force 
spectroscopy J. cell sci. 121 1785-1791 
[19] Grange W, Strunz T, Schumakovitch I, Güntherodt H J and Hegner M 2001 
Molecular recognition and adhesion of individual DNA strands studied by dynamic 
Force Microscopy Single Mol. 2 75-78. 
[20] Gao H, Zhang X X and Chang W B 2005 Study on the interaction in single 
antigen-antibody molecules by AFM Front Biosci. 10 1539-1545 
[21] Thie M, Ro¨spel1 R, Dettmann W, Benoit M, Ludwig M, Gaub H E and Denker H 
W 1998 Interactions between trophoblast and uterine epithelium: monitoring of 
adhesive forces Hum. Reprod. 13 3211–3219 
[22] Hsieh C Y, Tsai S P, Ho M H, Wang D M, Liu C E, Hsieh C H, Tseng H C and Hsieh 
H J 2007 Analysis of freeze-gelation and cross-linking processes for preparing 
porous chitosan scaffolds Carbohydr. Polym. 67 124-132  
[23] Filmon R, Basle M F, Atmani H, Chappard D 2002 Adherence of osteoblast-like 
cells on calcospherites developed on a biomaterial combining poly(2-hydroxyethyl) 
methacrylate and alkaline phosphatase Bone 30 152-158 
[24] Imatani T, Kato T, Okuda K, Yamashita Y 2004 Histatin 5 in hibits apoptosis in 
human gingival fibroblasts induced by porphyromonas gingivalis cell-surface 
polysaccharide Eur. J. Med. Res. 9 528-532 
[25] Chollet C, Chanseau C, Remy M, Guignandon A, Bareille R, Labruge` re C, 
Bordenave L and Durrieu M C 2009 The effect of RGD density on osteoblast and 
endothelial cell behavior on RGD-grafted polyethylene terephthalate surfaces 
Biomaterials 30 711–720 
[26] Hirohashi S and Kanai Y 2003 Cell adhesion system and human cancer 
morphogenesis Cancer Science 94 575-581 
[27] Chen Y, Mak A F T, Wang M, Li J and Wong M S 2006 PLLA scaffolds with 
Figure legends 
Figure 1 The schematic figure for the force-distance curve. The cantilever 
deflection, ∆Z, applied in Hook’s law is marked as the dotted line between 
points 5 and 6. There are seven steps in the force-distance curve. Step 1: 
Piezo extends and tip descends, where there is no contact with surface yet. 
Step 2: Tip is pulled down by the attractive forces near surface. Step 3: As 
tip presses the surface, cantilever bends upward. Step 4: Piezo retracts and 
tip ascends, where the cantilever relaxes downward until tip forces are in 
equilibrium with surface forces. Step 5: Piezo continues retraction and tip 
ascends further, where the cantilever bends downward as surface attraction 
holds onto the tip. Step 6: As tip continues its ascent, tip finally breaks free 
of surface attraction and the cantilever rebounds sharply upward. Step 7: 
As piezo continues retracting, tip continues its ascent. [16] 
Figure 2 The SEM pictures of chitosan bead immobilized on the cantilever by 
using micromanipulator. The diameter of the chitosan bead was around 
100 µm and immobilized on the end of the cantilever. (a) X200, (b) X500. 
Figure 3 The SEM pictures of a chitosan bead immobilized on the cantilever 
before (a) and after (b) the AFM measurement. 
Figure 4 The force-distance curves obtained from AFM, where the deflection of 
cantilever is the Y axis and the piezo position is the X axis. Two kinds of 
particles were applied, including chitosan and RGD-modified chitosan 
particles.  (a) chitosan-osteoblasts and RGD-osteoblasts, (b) chitosan-hGF 
and chitosan-RGD -hGF, (c) chitosan-UMR and chitosan-RGD -UMR , (d) 
chitosan-MF and chitosan-RGD -MF. 
Figure 5 The adhesion force between chitosan and different kinds of cells. The 
forces were evaluated from Figure 4. The adhesion force between chitosan 
and commercial dish (TCPS) was used as a white control. 
Figure 6 The roughness of four kinds of cells evaluated by using AFM. 
Figure 7 The cell attachment after the culture of 4 hours. The medium here was 
FBS free. The cells attached on the culture dish were used as a control 
group. The cell seeding density was 2×105 cells/ml. 
 (a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2 
 
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0
-300
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
Fo
rc
e(
nN
)
Distance of  Z(µm)
 
 
 osteoblasts - chitosan
 osteoblasts - RGD
 
(a) 
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0
-300
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
Fo
rc
e(
nN
)
Distance of  Z(µm)
  
 
 
 hGF - chitosan
 hGF - RGD
 
(b) 
 0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
TCPS MF UMR hGF osteoblasts
Fo
rc
e 
(n
N)
Chitosan vs. cell
RGD vs. cell
Figure 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
050000
100000
150000
200000
250000
MF UMR hGF osteoblasts
C
el
l n
um
be
r 
(c
el
ls)
chitosan
TCPS
Figure 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/11/16
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以原子力顯微鏡分析材料表面、生物分子與骨細胞間之交互作用力
計畫主持人: 何明樺
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-011-061- 學門領域: 有機化工材料
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
