 2 
 
A NOVEL TECHNIQUE TO EXAMINE THE OPTICAL PROPERTIES 
AND STRESS OF THIN FILMS 
 
Abstract 
This work proposes a three-intensity ellipsometric imaging system with which to 
measure stress in thin films that are deposited on silicon substrates. This approach 
goes beyond the limit of the information that the ellipsometer was only able to 
measure on the flat sample; moreover, it is capable of determining the radius of a 
curved surface. As a result, film stress based on Stoney equation, in which the change 
in the radius of the wafer can be obtained, is measurable by the imaging ellipsometer. 
In our research, the silicon wafer was bent into a one-hundred nanometer film. We 
discussed the relationship of the film thickness profile and refractive index according 
to the substrate’s different radius. 
 
Introduction 
Monitoring and controlling stress in thin films are critical issues for fabrication 
in the photonics and semiconductor industries. The ability to choose the correct film 
stress can be beneficial to the device’s yield and performance [1, 2]. If the proper 
procedures are not carefully followed, the film stress results in war page of the wafer 
and an interruption in the manufacturing process. A wide variety of methods for 
measuring stress in thin films have been developed which are often categorized into 
two types: determining the radius of curvature of the substrate, and directly measuring 
the interplanar spacings in the films. Conventionally, the measuring substrate 
curvature techniques, including optical interferometry laser scanning and 
double-crystal diffraction topography (DCDT) [3], explore substrate curvatures before 
and after film deposition. The mean stress can be determined by using the Stoney 
formula for a sufficiently thin film. The elastic strains in films cause the crystal 
structure to change its atomic spacing, which can be measured by a high-resolution 
X-ray diffraction technique in order to obtain the total amount of stress [4]. 
In some conditions, the variation of film stress is sometimes accompanied with 
the change of the thickness. Nevertheless, the existing optical methods were only able 
to individually measure the curvature of the substrate or the film thickness. In other 
words, no optical method is able to measure two parameters at the same time. 
Ellipsometry is a non-destructive optical technique, which analyzes the change 
of polarization of the incident light undergoing oblique reflection from a sample 
surface, and it has been employed in a variety of fields such as thin film inspection, 
measuring optical properties of bulk material and biosensing. The theory of deducing 
physical parameters from elliposmetric measurement depends on the incident angle; 
 4 
 
2 2( ) cos ( ) sin ( )
2 2
L TI A A Aγ γ= − + −               (3) 
Where L and T are the magnitudes of the maximum and the minimum intensities, 
respectively, and γ is the azimuth orientation of the maximum intensity. By comparing 
Eqs. (2) and (3), one can prove the following: 
 
cos sin 2 sin 2tan 2
cos2 cos2
P
P
γ Δ Ψ= − Ψ                   (4) 
2
2 2( ) sin (2 ) cot
4
L T
LT
γ− = Δ                   (5) 
Equation (3) can also be simplified as 
 
( ) (1 cos2 sin 2 )I A B C A D A= + +               (6) 
 
Where parameters B, C, and D can be written in terms of L, T, and γ ,i.e., 
B=0.5(L+T), C=(L-T)cos2γ/(L+T),and D=(L-T)sin2γ/(L+T).It is easy to prove that 
parameters B,C, and D can be measured by the intensities at A=0°,60°, and 120°: 
 
[ ]1 (0 ) (60 ) (120 )
3
12 [ (60 ) (120 )]
(60 ) (120 )
B I I I
C I I
B
D I I
= ° + ° + °
= − ° + °
= ° − °
               (7) 
as well as the following: 
tan 2
sin 2
2
D
C
DBL B
T B L
γ
γ
=
= +
= −
                       (8) 
 
Rewriting Eq. (2) in terms of cos2A and sin2A and comparing the result with Eq. (6), 
one can also prove that 
2 21tan tan
1
C P
C
+Ψ = −                     (9) 
Since P and A can be carefully calibrated with a flat surface, such as water, one can 
obtain the ellipsometric parameters of a flat surface with the 3I technique .It has been 
proved that the azimuth deviation of polarizer α can be obtained with the same 
measurement [6]. Assuming the curved surface normal deviates from the normal of 
the flat surface by α, one can easily prove the following: 
 6 
 
the laser beam was expanded to the diameter of 6mm, and the intensity was measured 
by a CCD camera (MX-516, Starlight Xpress), while the azimuth of the analyzer was 
set at 0°, 60°, and 120°. Oxide film was synthesized on the polished surface of well 
cleaned 4-inch silicon wafer in Ar by using a sputter coater with a maximum output 
power of 100W. Prior to the sputtering the chamber was pumped down to a base 
pressure of 1.6x10-6Torr in order to avoid the contamination due to other gases in the 
air. Then the chamber was flushed with pure Ar gas, in order to remove the small 
amounts of other residual gases further. The final thickness of the oxide film was 
146nm, and checked by a commercial ellipsometer (SOPRA). After that, the wafer 
was mounted on an electro-mechanical goniometer stage, where the top and bottom 
edge of the wafer was fixed on the stage, as shown in Fig. (2). In order to deform the 
wafer, a spacer was inserted under the center of the wafer. 
 
Figure 2: Schematic configuration of a test wafer sample bended by a spacer 
 
Results and Discussion 
 
Before the substrate deformation, the ellipsometric parameter of SiO2 on a wafer 
was examined. Since the substrate was almost flat, the Ψ and Δ were also nearly 
flattened. The film thickness, when deduced from ellipsometirc parameters, was 
146 ± 2nm, which is equivalent to the results we obtained from the commercial 
ellipsometer (SOPRA-GESP5) (i.e.,146.3nm). While the spacer with a small diameter 
was placed below the center of the wafer, the wafer was deformed and the surface was 
transformed into a curved shape. The deformation was checked by the distribution of 
the α value. The distribution of Ψ and Δ,as reflected from the surface on the curved 
wafer was also investigated by the imaging ellipsometry. Since the deformation was 
in a cylindrical symmetric distribution pattern, we illustrated only one line of the α 
curve across the vertex of the deformed wafer, as shown in Fig. 3(a), and its zero 
point of α represents the vertex of the surface. In addition, the radius of the cylindrical 
surface can be obtained by taking the slope of the linear regression of the α curve, 
r=525.71 mm. Then, according to Stoney equation, the film stress can be worked out 
at 47.3Gpa. Although the surface was bent, the ellipsometric parameters were 
compensated by the numerically flattened process Fig. 3(b) and (c). As we can see in 
Fig. 3(b) and (c), the corrected Ψ was little swept upward, but the Δ remain kept 
 8 
 
  
(a)                                   (b) 
Figure 4: measured specifications  with a larger spacer(a) deviation angle of the 
surface normal across the vertex of a bended wafer: thin line, measured α across the 
vertex of the wafer; thick line, its best linear fit; (b) thickness profile of the test wafer 
 
Conclusion 
 
 On the basis of a novel optical method for an oxide thin film, stress 
measurements based on a Si substrate deformation caused by external force was 
carried out in the present work. The film stress was determined by Stoney equation, 
which is used to relate substrate curvature to film stress. In comparison to 
conventional ellipsometry, the tree-intensity can obtain ellipsometric parameters that 
are free from the azimuth angle deviation of a polarizer and analyzer, due to the 
surface normal change of a curved surface. The surface normal also can be 
characterized. As a result, the distinguishing feature of this technique is a film 
thickness profile and a refractive can also be examined at the same time. In this work, 
although the Si substrate was almost able to reach its maximum elastic deformation, 
the film thickness and refractive index did not display a significant difference from 
the flat one. Additional research must be conducted in order to determine the 
influence of the film thickness and optical properties for cases that involve diverse 
materials under various film stresses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 
成果報告自評表 
 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應
用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜
合評估。     
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 █ 撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 █ 無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 █ 無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
橢圓偏光術是一種非接觸式、非破壞性、以光學技術量測薄膜表面特性的方法，然而目
前所有研製中或商用的橢圓偏光儀皆限制待測表面為一平面，本研究使用新型計算方法，可
以消除因待測樣品因彎曲而造成的量測誤差，將此技術應用在不同彎曲基板上的薄膜應力大
小檢測，完成了 SiO2/Si 薄膜的光學常數變化與應力大小之初步分析，本方法最終希望能夠應
用於線上製程中，而擴展橢圓偏光術的應用範圍，可以增加量測面積、提高量測速度與精確
度，提供一種新型的多功能光電量測的技術。 
 
2009 舉辦為義大利的 Trani。此研討會舉辦的主要目的是為了提供一
個關於微型和奈米感測系統的技術經驗交流與討論園地，儘管在過去
二十年來感測器技術有顯著進步，但也不斷遇到新的問題，必須用新
的思路和辦法解決，此研討會提供了一個專家積極參與研究評析新的
概念、研討新的理論方法之機會。本人此次參加之第四屆 IWASI 2011
研討會之地點為義大利的 Brindisi ，會議的主要題目包括有感測器之
新材料和新技術、感測器的建模和設計技術、生物感測器的應用與展
望、以微機電系統和微光機電系統為基礎的環境監測系統、感測器的
後處理電子技術等議題。本次的會議為期雖只有二天，但每天都安排
數場專家的演講與短期課程，可說是一場精采絕倫的學術盛宴，本人
在此次研討會發表今年關於一種利用新型光學技術來感測薄膜應力
與光學常數的方法，與各國的專家進行學術研討與未來發展方向的評
析，感覺此次的會議讓人獲益良多。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次會議的舉辦地點為非常偏僻的義大利南方小城鎮，會場周圍
幾乎沒有公用運輸工具，從最近的火車站走到會場地也須 30 分鐘。
但也因為交通不變與會的專家學者幾乎都全程參與此次會議，感
覺上本次會議氣氛異常的溫馨與熱絡。與會人員約一半為義大利
的專家學者，荷蘭Delft大學的與會人數也不少，其餘的為美國藉、
究方法來提升感測器的發展與應用，但也因在不同的研究背景下
能互相討論，可激盪與啟發不同的研究方法與想法，對未來的研
究方向與議題的掌握有更深遠的影響。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
此次研討會是本人參與過最小規模的國際會議，雖然參加人數不
多但是無論是硬體或是軟體上的設施都充分地展現主辨單位的用心，
邀請的專家學者很多也是一時之選，此小型的研討會提供了一個類似
微型工作坊環境，能讓我們能近距離且有充分時間的與國際頂尖學者
相互討論，整個議程充滿了驚奇與溫馨的氛圍，讓我們對於相關領域
的發展有更新的認識，與對研究方向的掌握有所提升且獲益匪淺，期
待國內也可多舉辦此類專題研討會。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
IWASI 2011 研討會紀念背包乙個 
IWASI 2011 研討會議程資料隨身碟乙個 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：韓建遠 計畫編號：99-2221-E-239-020- 
計畫名稱：利用影像式橢圓偏光術建立一種新型薄膜應力量測方法 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 40%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 60% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
