 2 
The study of model order reduction for local Seebeck 
coefficient measurements in inhomogeneities  
 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-006-178  
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日~99 年 7 月 31 日  
主 持 人：洪振益（國立成功大學機械工程學系） 
計畫參與人員：吳坤憲、許仲喬、陳威廷  
 
Abstract  
 
A Seebeck coefficient measurement apparatus, called Potential 
Seebeck Microprobe (PSM), has been built for measuring advanced 
thermoelectric materials with nanoinclusions. The local Seebeck 
coefficients are spatially resolved on a sample surface by PSM to achieve 
information especially on the state of inhomogeneity or distribution of the 
components. In the last year project, we successfully improved the 
spatially resolved resolution on detecting the small inhomogeneity by the 
uses of ANSYS coupled-field numerical simulation and digital signal 
processing. However, the main obstacle is the high computational cost of 
transient simulation with fully three-dimensional ANSYS model. In this 
project, we therefore focus on how to extract the required matrices from 
ANSYS and perform model order reduction by using the open-source 
software mor4ansys. It was shown that the transient results of a reduced 
order model are in agreement with that from a sparse solver in ANSYS. 
Finally, the computational time can be decreased by mor4ansys, which is an 
efficient algorithm to yield the simulation results for the improvement of 
PSM measuring resolution.  
 
Keywords: potential Seebeck microprobe, inhomogeneity, ANSYS, model 
order reduction  
 
 4 
1 Introduction  
 
    A profile of local Seebeck coefficients, which depicts inhomogeneous 
compositions, can be measured by an apparatus of Potential Seebeck 
Microprobe (PSM) [1]. The physical description of Seebeck coefficient is 
defined as  
T
V
∆
∆−
=α ,                                              (1) 
in which a thermovoltage is induced by a temperature difference across the 
material sample. This definition can be found in the standard textbook [2] 
for the Seebeck coefficient estimation [3-5]. The PSM apparatus extends it 
to spatially resolve the local Seebeck coefficient on a material sample 
surface by a heated microprobe tip, which is positioned using a 
three-dimensional (3D) linear stage. The tip contact causes a temperature 
affecting zone within a local region of sample and generates a 
thermovoltage due to carrier separation driven by heat to yield a local 
Seebeck coefficient. A profile of local Seebeck coefficients is then carried 
out by the sequential tip scans onto a material sample surface. The 
measurement setup can be found in the literature [1] and its functionality 
is to provide the information on the inhomogeneity or the distribution of 
compositions. Due to high degree of homogeneity as a good 
thermoelectric material, the PSM apparatus becomes important especially 
for investigating novel thermoelectric materials with micro- or 
nano-inclusions. The PSM apparatus has been applied to the investigations 
of microstructures and inhomogeneities in thermoelectric materials [6, 7].    
However, the detected resolution of PSM apparatus depends on the 
temperature affecting zone size, which is determined by tip size, signal 
captured time and sample thermal conductivity. In a wide temperature 
affecting zone, the PSM apparatus loses the contrast of different 
inhomogeneous phases and yields a blurred Seebeck coefficient value. In 
our previous work [8], we introduced the advantages of Digital Signal 
Processing (DSP) on the treatment of Seebeck line scan signals, which are 
mainly derived from ANSYS simulations. The use of deconvolution 
algorithm is suitable to inverse the blurred Seebeck signal, which reveals 
the system response to the local thermal excitation. By Fast Fourier 
Transform (FFT), the transfer function can be extracted for the 
compensation of the system transfer characteristic on the blurred signals. 
The applicability of deconvolution algorithm can thus provide a promise 
method to improve the PSM resolution.  
But the prior work on transient analyses of the PSM apparatus was 
based on the two-dimensional (2D) finite element models and such results 
were used to prove the applicability of deconvolution algorithm. In this 
project, the analyses to 3D cases were extended in order to compare with 
 6 
2 Simulation of local Seebeck coefficient measurement  
 
A 3D model was constructed to simulate a local Seebeck coefficient 
measurement principle of the PSM apparatus. An illustration of numerical 
model is presented in Fig. 1 and the material transport properties are 
summarized in Table 1. The regular, quadrilateral grids were adopted to 
construct the simulation mesh with grid number steeply varied in thermal 
and electric fields near the center of heated region. The boundary 
conditions are also shown in Fig. 1. An electric ground terminal (ϕ=0 Volt) 
was assigned to the microprobe and a temperature difference was given by 
loading the outer nodes at temperature of T2=298 K and T0=293 K. 
Moreover, a switch element was used to simulate the contact process 
between microprobe tip and material sample. A transient analysis is 
needed and the signal captured time was set to 6 µs. The initial condition 
was given by a steady-state solution, in which the thermal conductivity of 
the switch element was set to a low value of 10-6 WK-1m-1, yielding a 
uniform temperature of 298 K for the heated microprobe while the sample 
remained constant temperature of 293 K. After resetting the thermal 
conductivity of the switch element to 400 WK-1m-1, the tip was started to 
contact the sample for a transient analysis. The criterion of convergence 
was set that the maximum residue is less than 10-6. Finally, the nodal 
solution yielded a temperature T1 and an induced electric potential ϕ1, as 
shown in Fig. 1. We then used Eq. 1 to estimate the local Seebeck 
coefficient αs caused by the temperature difference T1-T0, which was 
known from the nodal simulation results.  
 
( )( )011 TTCus −−= ααϕ
 
Fig. 1 Schematic of the PSM model.  
 
 8 
3 Model order reduction for PSM apparatus  
 
Because the principle of PSM apparatus is based on the 
thermoelectric phenomena, the constitutive equations of thermoelectricity 
are expressed by  
)( T∇−−∇= αϕσJ                                          (2) 
TkT ∇−= Jq α                                            (3) 
where J, q and ϕ are electric current density vector, heat flux vector and 
electric scalar potential, respectively. In addition, the governing equation 
satisfies the conservation of energy principle  
q&=⋅∇+
∂
∂ q
t
TCρ                                           (4) 
and the continuity of electric charge  
    0=⋅∇ J                                                 (5) 
where ρ, C and q&  are density, specific heat capacity and heat generation 
rate per unit volume, respectively.  
Substituting Eqs. (2), (3) into Eqs. (4), (5) yields the following 
thermoelectric characteristics   
qTkT
t
TC &=∇⋅⋅∇⋅⋅∇+
∂
∂ )(( -J)αρ                               (6) 
( ) ( ) 0=∇⋅⋅⋅∇+∇⋅⋅∇ Tασϕσ                                  (7) 
In ANSYS formulation, the Galerkin FEM procedure [10] is applied to the 
coupled PDEs of Eqs. (6) and (7). A system of first order ODEs assembles 
a dynamic system in the form of 





 ++
=












+












I
QQQT
KK
KTC eP
e
e
T
TT
e
e
TT
ϕϕ ϕϕϕ
0
00
0
&
&
                   (8) 
where TTC  is thermal damping matrix, TTK  is thermal stiffness matrix, 
TK ϕ  is Seebeck stiffness matrix, ϕϕK  is electric stiffness matrix, Q  is 
heat generation loads, PQ  is Peltier heat load, eQ  is electric power load 
and I  is electric current load. The ODEs are the Galerkin projection of 
PDEs. The details can be seen in the reference [11].  
From Eq. (8), two physical quantities, temperature (Te) and electric 
scalar potential (ϕe), are needed to be solved for the estimation of local 
Seebeck coefficient. Because the local Seebeck coefficient is measured 
under an open-circuit condition, only the open-circuit voltage is measured 
by the PSM apparatus and no electric current will be generated through the 
sample. Moreover, for the PSM apparatus, the heated tip contact produces 
a heat flow, which is caused by a small temperature difference of about 5 
K, across the sample and results in the temperature affecting zone inside 
the sample. Because the variation of temperature is only about 5 K, the 
properties of ρ, C, α, σ, κ of the sample can be assumed to be constant 
(temperature independent). Under the above assumptions, Eq. (8) can be 
 10 
4 Results and discussion  
 
In order to evaluate the computational accuracy by employing 
mor4ansys, the results of 3µs transient time via direct ANSYS simulation 
and the reduced order model are compared as shown in Fig. 3. Good 
accordance is obtained to demonstrate the successful application of model 
order reduction to the PSM apparatus, which captures the thermovoltage 
for local Seebeck coefficient evaluation.  
 
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
 
 
El
ec
tr
ic
 
po
te
n
tia
l [
µµ µµV
]
Time [µs]
 ANSYS full model
 Model order reduction
 
Fig 3 Comparison of 3D, transient results simulated by ANSYS full model and model 
order reduction.   
 
For the treatment of Seebeck line scan signals by the signal 
processing viewpoint, the PSM system behavior in terms of the input and 
output signals is shown in Fig 4. Accordingly, the required system transfer 
characteristic can be conveniently determined by the numerical work of 
ANSYS simulation. As a result, the experimental data can be improved to 
a higher resolution by using deconvolution algorithm with respect to the 
searching transfer function. For all the local Seebeck coefficients, Fig. 4 
demonstrates a very slight difference between ANSYS full model and 
model order reduction. However, model order reduction provides an 
efficient computation and will be discussed below.  
 
 12 
5 Conclusion  
 
In this project, we have successfully applied the model order 
reduction to reduce the computational time for the improvement of PSM 
resolution; besides, the accuracy of model order reduction was also 
approved. Finally, the total computational time for the local Seebeck 
coefficient estimation using model order reduction decreases to 
approximately 1/3 of that using ANSYS full model.  
 
 
References 
 
[1] H.L. Ni, X.B. Zhao, G. Karpinski, E. Mueller, Mapping and analysis of 
microscopic Seebeck coefficient distribution, J. Mater. Sci. 40 (2005) 605-608.  
[2] G.S. Nolas, J. Sharp, H.J. Goldsmid, Thermoelectrics - Basic principles and new 
materials developments, Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 2001.  
[3] L.S. Sharath Chandra, A. Lakhani, D. Jain, S. Pandya, P.N. Vishwakarma, M. 
Gangrade, V. Ganesan, Simple and precise thermoelectric power measurement 
setup for different environments, Rev. Sci. Instrum. 79 (2008) 103907.  
[4] S.R.S. Kumar, S. Kasiviswanathan, A hot probe setup for the measurement of 
Seebeck coefficient of thin wires and thin films using integral method, Rev. Sci. 
Instrum. 79 (2008) 024302.  
[5] J.W. Cai, G.D. Mahan, Effective Seebeck coefficient for semiconductors, Phys. 
Rev. B 74 (2006) 075201.  
[6] M.S. Toprak, C. Stiewe, D. Platzek, S. Williams, L. Bertini, E. Mueller, C. Gatti, 
Y. Zhang, M. Rowe, M. Muhammed, The impact of nanostructuring on the 
thermal conductivity of thermoelectric CoSb3, Adv. Funct. Mater. 14 (2004) 
1189-1196.  
[7] J. Zhou, S. Li, H.M.A. Soliman, M.S. Toprak, M. Muhammed, D. Platzek, E. 
Mueller, Seebeck coefficient of nanostructured phosphorus-alloyed bismuth 
telluride thick films, J. Alloy. Compd. 471 (2009) 278-281.  
[8] K.H. Wu, C.I. Hung, P. Ziolkowski, D. Platzek, G. Karpinski, C. Stiewe, E. 
Mueller, Improvement of spatial resolution for local Seebeck coefficient 
measurements by deconvolution algorithm, Rev. Sci. Instrum. 80 (2009) 105104.  
[9] T. Bechtold, E.B. Rudnyi, J.G. Korvink, Dynamic electro-thermal simulation of 
microsystems - a review, J. Micromech. Microeng. 15 (2005) R17-R31.  
[10] P.P. Silvester, R.L. Ferrari, Finite elements for electrical engineers, 3rd Edition, 
University Press, Cambridge, 1996.  
[11] E.E. Antonova, D.C. Looman, Finite elements for thermoelectric device analysis 
in ANSYS, Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on Thermoelectrics 
(ICT), 2005, pp. 215-218.  
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
