8、 本研究提出以 HHT 頻譜為計算基礎之鋼結構房屋建築損
傷評估流程，具備簡單且有效的診斷模式，其頂樓加速度頻
譜能即時反應結構體之損傷程度，若能進一步量取其他樓層
與可能優先破壞位置之地震訊號，則更利於偵測出建築物構
件局部損傷之位置與時機。 
 
中文關鍵詞： 希爾伯特-黃轉換、損傷指標、層間變位角、半功率帶寬法 
英 文 摘 要 ： This study investigates the feasibility of detecting 
structural damage using the HHT method. A damage 
detection index, the ratio of equivalent damping 
ratio (RED) is proposed. Based on an analysis of 
shaking table test data from benchmark models 
subjected to adjusted Kobe and El Centro earthquakes, 
the damage detection index is evaluated using the 
Hilbert-Huang Transform (HHT) and the Fast Fourier 
Transform (FFT) methods, respectively. Results 
indicate that, when the response of the structure is 
in the elastic region, the RED value only slightly 
changes in both the HHT and the FFT spectra. 
Additionally, RED values estimated from the HHT 
spectra vs. the PGA values change incrementally when 
the structure response is nonlinear i.e., member 
yielding occurs, but not in the RED curve from the 
FFT spectra. Moreover, the RED value of the top floor 
changes more than those from the other floors.  
Furthermore, structural damage is detected only when 
using the acceleration response data from the top 
floor. Therefore, the ratio of equivalent damping 
ratio RED estimated from the smoothed HHT spectra is 
an effective and sensitive damage index for detecting 
structural damage. The proposed RED will be used in 
the establishment of the on line health motoring 
scheme to detect the structural damage of the steel 
structures right after a ground motion. 
英文關鍵詞： Damage detection index, HHT, inter-story drift, half-
power bandwidth 
 
Huang 2004) was proposed to overcome the intermittence phenomenon. The latest new HHT 
ensemble skills method has been utilized to analyze Tai-power Building stong-motion station 
records from 1994~2006 (Su et al. 2008). According to those results, the acceleration relations 
between the basement and the 27th story (top) are not proportional, even when the building 
maintains elasticity. A HHT-based damage detection method to two moment frames building 
is proposed (Raufi 2010). The result shows that the rotational response of nodes as the best 
option to detect damage of bending frame. 
In reference to ATC-40 and FEMA-273, the inter-story drift is normally used as a 
damage detection index. The yielding timing and damage location of the structural members 
are difficult to determine from the inter-story drift data. Additionally, the response 
displacement of each floor also cannot be obtained directly for an actual structure. A 
conventional mean of estimating response displacement is to integrate the measured 
acceleration data (Kusunoki et al., 2003). However, the feasibility of the displacement 
estimated from the acceleration response data of a nonlinear structure, when using the 
integration method, is questionable. This study more closely examines this issue. Moreover, 
as is well known, the half-power bandwidth estimated from a frequency response curve Rd 
(Chopra, 2001) is related to the damping ratio of a lightly-damped structure. Furthermore, the 
bandwidth normalized with the natural frequency increases with an increasing the structural 
damping ratio. 
The objective of this study is to present an effective damage detection method for on line 
health motoring of a steel structure. Instead of identifying the structural stiffness, natural 
frequencies and damping ratios of a structure before and after damage as mentioned above, 
this study proposes a simple structural damage detection index, in which the ratio of 
equivalent damping ratio (RED) based on the HHT method. In which, RED is estimated from 
the acceleration response curve Ra of the structure. The damage detection index RED is 
evaluated based on test data of two steel structural models, i.e., the standard type benchmark 
A (NCREE-99-002) and benchmark B (NCREE-06-020), respectively, to show the sensitivity 
of the index. In addition, RED is evaluated based on the measured acceleration response data 
for each floor in these two models. The results of RED values using the FFT method 
demonstrate the performance of the HHT method. 
II. Hilbert Huang Transform (HHT) 
The HHT, developed by Huang et al. (1998, 1999), consists of a two step-empirical 
mode decomposition (EMD) and the Hilbert spectral analysis (HSA). This section briefly 
summarizes the HHT principles and procedures. The detailed information can be found in the 
quoted references.  
(1) Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD):  
The EMD method involves the extraction of the IMFs from a given time series. An IMF 
is a function that satisfies two conditions as follows: 
and increases when increasing the PGA value of the ground motions. Additionally, the natural 
frequency and the damping ratio of the structure subjected to strong ground motions change if 
any structural member is damaged. The change of the equivalent damping ratio of the 
structure before and after damage by earthquakes is the most obvious one among these 
indexes. Therefore, this study derives the ratio of equivalent damping ratio RED, which refers 
to the occurrence and the extent of structural damage caused by earthquakes. 
As is well known, the half-power bandwidth (Chopra, 2001) is related to the equivalent 
damping ratio of a SDOF structure. Therefore, the relationship of half-power 
bandwidth ( 2 1)f f−  vs. damping ratio 0ζ  of the structure can be expressed as follows:  
0
0
2 1 2 1
2 2 1
f f f f
f f f
ζ − −= = +                                            (7) 
where 0f  represents the natural frequency of the structure. 
Similarly, the equivalent damping ratio eqζ  estimated from another spectrum, as computed 
from the structural responses to a stronger ground motion, can be expressed as follows: 
 
' ' ' '
' '
2 1 2 1
2 2 1eq eq
f f f f
f f f
ζ − −= = +                                        (8) 
where eqf  represents the equivalent natural frequency of the structure. 
    By using Eq. (7) and Eq. (8), the ratio of equivalent damping ratio RED can be 
expressed as follows: 
' '
0
0
2 1
2 1
eq
eq
ff fRED
f f f
ζ
ζ
−= = ×−                                       (9) 
The ratio of equivalent damping ratio RED can be estimated from the acceleration 
frequency response spectrum. Notably, since the half-power bandwidth is difficult to estimate 
from an original structural response spectrum, the moving average skill (Chou, 1975) is used 
to smooth the spectrum. Index RED is then evaluated from the smoothed curves. 
2. Damage detection analysis 
As is well known, the inter-story drift is usually used to represent structural damage, like 
ATC-40 (ATC 1996) and FEMA 273 (Federal Emergency Management Agency 1997). Thus, 
this study discusses two objectives of the drift ratio based on the testing data of the 
benchmark models: (1) ability of the inter-story drift sensitivity to identify the damage 
location if a structural member has been yielded and (2) ability to represent the displacement 
responses based on the results of the acceleration integration method results. Fig.1 shows the 
inter-story drift vs. PGA curves from directly measured displacement responses and from 
integration of acceleration responses for benchmark A. The inter-story drift increases with 
structure, the inter-story drift is computed using the acceleration integration method. Fig.2 
summarizes those results. In this Figure, the solid lines denote the inter-story drift from the 
measured displacement responses of each floor, while the dashed lines denote the results 
estimated from acceleration integration. 
 
Fig.3 Story drift vs. PGA curves from directly measured displacement responses and from integration of 
acceleration responses for benchmark B 
Fig.3 displays the inter-story drift vs. PGA curves for the benchmark B, based on the 
directly measured displacements (denoted by solid lines) and the acceleration integration 
(denoted by dashed lines). Although the results of the integration method clearly deviate 
from the directly measured displacement responses, especially the 3F curve, the first yield of 
the structure can be identified from the abrupt changes of the slope of these curves.  
  
(a) (b) 
Fig.4 Yielding point of 1st floor column of benchmark B by: (a) ABAQUS (NCREE-06-020) and (b) pushover 
analysis of SAP2000 
Fig.4 shows a portion of the simulation results for benchmark B. Fig.4(a) shows the 
ABAQUS model results (NCREE-06-020, in Chinese): the PGA=0.3g; and Fig.4(b) the 3D 
SAP2000 pushover analysis: PGA=0.28g. Moreover, at the bottom of the 1st floor column is 
the first yielding member in benchmark B. The above analytical results indicate that, when 
PGA=0.3g, the bottom of the 1st floor columns has already been yielded. These results also 
coincide with the strain gage data (NCREE-06-020, in Chinese). Similar to the results of 
benchmark A, although the maximum inter-story drift occurs in the 2nd floor, the first 
 
Fig.7 RED vs. PGA curves of each floor from the FFT and HHT spectra for benchmark A 
Figure 7 presents the RED vs. PGA curves for each floor estimated from the FFT and 
HHT spectra for benchmark A. The change in RED is observed only when PGA is greater 
than 0.56g in the FFT spectra and the maximum value of RED is only 1.4 in the 4th floor 
case. However, according to the HHT results, a situation in which RED increases with 
increasing PGA values is observed when PGA exceeds 0.2g (the first column yield occurs). 
Nevertheless, the same phenomenon cannot be found in the FFT results. Additionally, the 
RED curve for the top floor is the highest one in Fig. 7. The maximum value of the RED is 
3.6 in the PGA=0.6g case. We can thus infer that the RED value from the HHT spectra is an 
effective and sensitive damage detection index.  
Figure 8 shows the spectra for the top floor acceleration for benchmark B. Figure 8(a) 
and 8(b) show the FFT spectra for various adjusted El Centro earthquake intensities and the 
smoothed FFT spectra, respectively. Referring to Figs. 8(a) and 8(b), the predominant 
frequency shifts when the PGA value is greater than 1.0g in the FFT spectra. Restated, the 
nonlinear behavior of benchmark B is clearly observed. However, the changes in bandwidth 
in the FFT spectra are not easily found, even in the case of PGA=1.0g.  
(a) (b) 
Fig.8 Response spectra of the top floor for benchmark B: (a) FFT spectra (b) smoothed FFT spectra 
Similarly, the shift in the predominant frequency is also observed in the HHT spectra, as 
shown in Figs. 9(c) and 9(d). The bandwidth changes when increasing the PGA values in the 
HHT spectra, and can clearly be seen, especially when the PGA value exceeds 1.0g.  
incremental change in RED vs. PGA from HHT method is clearly observed. Restated, RED 
continuously increases with increasing PGA values if the structure experiences non-linear 
disruption. We conclude that the ratio of equivalent damping ratio RED estimated from the 
smoothed HHT spectra is an effective and sensitive damage detection index for detecting the 
structural damage of the steel structure to strong ground motions. The RED value of the top 
floor reveals a higher change value than that of the other floors.  
Therefore, structural damage can be detected using the acceleration response data from 
the top floor. Future studies should attempt to locate structural damage using the damage 
detection index, RED, in the HHT spectra. Owing to the RED can be evaluated from 
acceleration responses easily and quickly about 1 minute of PC computer time, it will be used 
in the establishment of the on line health motoring scheme to detect the structural damage of 
the steel structures right after a ground motion. 
Acknowledgements: 
The authors would like to thank (1) Dr. Loh, the professor of civil engineering at 
National Taiwan University, for providing the test data for the benchmark models, (2) Dr. 
Norden E. Huang, the director of the Adaptive Data Analysis Research Center at National 
Central University, for his invaluable introduction of the HHT method, encouragement and 
advice for this study.  
References 
Chopra Anil K., 2001, “Earthquake Dynamics of Structures: Theory and Applications to 
Earthquake Engineering,” Second Edition , pp.83. 
Chou Ya lun, 1975, “Statistical Analysis,” 2d ed. New York: Holt Rinehart and Winston, pp. 
562–565. 
Cooley, James W., and John W. Tukey., 1965, “An algorithm for the machine calculation of 
complex Fourier series,” Math. Comput. 19, 297–301. 
Darryll Pines, and Liming Salvino, 2006, “Structural health monitoring using empirical mode 
decomposition and the Hilbert phase,” Sound and Vibration 294, 97-124. 
Doebling SW, Farrar CR, Prime MB, Shevitz DW., 1996, “Damage identification and health 
monitoring of structural and mechanical system from changes in their characteristics: 
A literature review,” Los Alamos National Laboratory Report LA-13070-MS. 
Doebling SW, Farrar CR, Prime MB., 1998, “A summary review of vibration based damage 
identification method,” Shock Vib Dig 30(2), 91–105. 
Hakan Gokdag, and Osman Kopmaz, 2009, “A new damage detection approach for 
beam-type structures based on the combination of continuous and discrete wavelet 
transforms,” Sound and Vibration 324,1158–1180. 
Hou, Z., and Noori, M., 1999, “Application of wavelet analysis For structural health 
monitoring,” Proc., 2nd Int. Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring, Stanford 
Univ., Stanford, Calif., pp. 946–955. 
Hou, Z., Noori, M., and Amand, R. St., 2000, “Wavelet-based approach for structural damage 
detection,” J. Eng. Mech. 126(7), 677–683. 
Huang, N E. Z., Shen, S. R. Long, M. C. Wu, H. - H. Shih, Q. Zheng, N.-C. Yen, C.-C. Tung 
and H. H. Liu., 1998, “The Empirical Mode Decomposition and the Hilbert Spectrum 
for Nonlinear and Non-stationary Time Series Analysis,” Proc. R. Sec.115London A, 
The Royal Society, pp. 903-995. 
Huang, N. E., Shen, Z., and Long, S. R., 1999, “A new view of nonlinear water waves: The 
Hilbert spectrum,” Annu. Rev. Fluid Mech. 31, 417–457. 
Kim H, Melhem H., 2004, “Damage detection of structures by wavelet analysis,” Eng. Struct. 
26(3), 347–62. 
damage detection,” Eng. Mech-ASCE 130(1), 85–95. 
Yen Gary G.., and Lin K. C., 2000, “Wavelet packet feature extraction for vibration 
monitoring,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics 47, 650–667. 
Zhanga Xin, Wong Kevin K.F. and Wang Yi, 2007, “Performance assessment of moment 
resisting frames during earthquakes based on the force analogy method,” 
Engineering Structures 29, 2792–2802. 
Zhang Ray Ruichong, Ma Shuo, Safak Erdal, and Hartzell Stephen, 2003, “Hilbert-Huang 
Transform Analysis of Dynamic and Earthquake Motion Recordings,” Eng Mech- 
ASCE 129(8), 861-875. 
作為目標導向的網絡建構者、後設治理做為調適能力的先決條件 (詳附件：會議
議程)。上述等議題主要是從社會科學的角度，切入氣候變遷調適研究。而就接
下來本人的發表「氣候變遷調適推動之構想框架 - 互動、整合、創新」，則是從
較具全面性的調適科技推動構想框架建構角度，針對氣候變遷現象與調適作為間
的因果關係，闡述氣候變遷調適之跨領域整合研究思考脈絡。而在每一場約 20
分鐘的發表後，則有約 10分鐘的討論，提供講者與聽眾做進一步的互動。 
接下來在下午的議程中，首先是三組主持人分就各組演講內容予以彙整說明，提
供所有與會者了解。透過這段分享過程，則帶出了目前社會科學研究在氣候變遷
調適議題上面臨到的偌大障礙，也就是如何跨領域地與自然科學、工程等領域方
面的專家學者，進行跨領域的溝通、討論與合作，以共同因應氣候變遷的衝擊與
不確定性。而從社會科學的觀點來看，人為的氣候變遷，是個嚴肅的社會問題；
其起因於人，也終將衝擊人類社會發展。 
針對以上討論，目前服務於德國波茲坦氣候變遷研究所的 Grothmann博士，提出
了一份論文草稿「Anpassung an den Klimawandel - Potentiale 
sozialwissenschaftlicher Forschung in Deutschland (德文) / 氣候變遷調適 - 德國
社會科學研究的潛力」，本人則獲邀連署支持該論述。該論文將於 2011年 6月發
表於著名的跨領域研究期刊：GAIA - Ecological Perspectives for Science and 
Society (SSCI)。 
最後，會議討論並選出下一屆的舉辦單位，並考慮將調適研究議題更全面地透過
國際網絡進行跨領域且跨國的深入討論。 
心得與建議： 
多數與會學者面對全球性的氣候變遷衝擊與不確定性，傾向於透過區域尺度的實
證操作方式，輔以既有相關的衝擊評估等方法論，逐步建立並滾動修正調適科技
發展與評估方法。該具「區域調適」特性與尺度的研究過程，當有助於我國有效
建立調適方法，乃至協助各部會屬及相關機構落實調適科技。 
而未來我國則可考慮透過舉辦類似國際研討會的方式，邀請尤其是對於環境議題
頗為重視的歐洲國家與會分享其經驗與研究成果，並展開密切交流，推動國際合
作計畫，提升我國在氣候變遷調適領域方面的研究能量。 
 
相關附件：邀請函、論文摘要、論文簡報、會議議程 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蔣偉寧 計畫編號：99-2221-E-008-033- 
計畫名稱：以希爾伯特黃轉換應用於地震結構損傷敏感度分析之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
經本文研究標竿模型頻寬比分析之結果，可歸納結論如下： 
(1)標竿模型之地震反應尚在線彈性範圍時，無論使用 HHT 或 FFT 進行分析，阻尼比皆僅
有微小變化產生，即 RED 近似於 1。 
(2)當桿件產生降伏，結構物反應進入非線性階段時，觀察 HHT 頻譜可得知 RED 有隨 PGA
值提高而呈正向遞增之趨勢。 
(3)透過 HHT 頻譜得知，標竿模型最先達到降伏之桿件所在的樓層，其相當阻尼比增加幅
度較其他樓層明顯，表示觀察 RED 之變化即能有效判斷結構產生降伏的樓層位置。 
(4)量取頂樓的加速度反應進行 HHT 分析便能瞭解結構物是否發生損傷。 
(5)僅觀察層間變位角之變化難以掌握結構物產生破壞的時機。 
(6)鋼結構標竿模型試驗中，一樓柱桿件最先降伏，但最大層間變位角卻發生於二樓，表
示觀察層間變位角之變化，無法順利得知桿件發生局部損傷的樓層位置。 
後續發展則可參考下列建議進行改進： 
1、本研究僅針對鋼結構建築進行分析，後續可改以不同材料性質之構架，如鋼筋混凝土
或 SRC 結構進行研究。 
2、本文採用之真實分析數據來源為標準鋼結構模型，未來能進一步量取實際結構物之訊
號進行分析與比較。 
3、真實結構物之地震反應包含許多訊號源，若能釐清各訊號之意義，將能使損傷評估指
