 2
二、 報告內容 
I. Introduction 
In recent years, mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETs) have received much 
attention due to their potential applications and proliferation of mobile devices, [1, 2]. 
Specifically, MANETs mean wireless multi-hop networks formed by a set of mobile 
nodes without relying on a preexisting infrastructure. Although they are 
infrastructureless and has many benefits such as self-configuration and ease of 
deployment, their flexibility and convenience come at a price. The networks still 
inherit the traditional problems of wireless communications, such as bandwidth 
optimization, power control, and transmission quality enhancement. In addition, their 
mobility, multihop nature and the lack of infrastructure create a number of new 
complexities and design constraints, which include dynamically changing network 
topologies, network robustness and reliability, hidden-terminal and exposed-terminal 
problems, variation in link and node capabilities, energy constrained operation and 
network security. 
A profound knowledge of the radio channel characteristics is a prerequisite for 
the development of efficient wireless transmission systems. To our knowledge, only 
few literatures explore vehicle-to-vehicle radio channel characteristics and models. In 
[3]~[4], the authors present a “double ring” model to simulate the mobile-to-mobile 
local scattering environment and use it to develop a sum-of-sinusoids based method 
for simulating small scale fading channels. In [5], analytical expressions of the 
time-autocorrelation function and the Doppler spectrum in a mobile radio channel are 
derived in the presence of three-dimensional (3-D) multipath scattering. In [6], fading 
statistical properties, such as the level-crossing rate and fade duration of the envelope, 
of mobile-to-mobile land communication channels have been investigated. In [7], the 
paper present results from vehicle to vehicle RF propagation measurements centered 
at 900 MHz. The authors focus on determining delay spread and path loss exponents 
measured by vector network analyzer. 
In this project, vehicle-to-vehicle radio channels characteristics are explored and 
modeled. In the first year models for average path loss, shadow and small scale fading 
are proposed or explored, which is validated by massive measured data at frequencies 
900MHz and 1200MHz in open areas, roadways or streets with light or heavy traffic.  
In the second year, a deterministic-statistical (hybrid) spatio-temporal model for 
vehicle-to-vehicle channels is developed. The model combines a deterministic model 
with a statistical model. The former model, a site-specific model, considers the direct 
wave, ground-reflected waves and the waves reflected from the walls along streets. 
The latter one employs statistical approach to calculate the scattered fields due to 
randomly positioned scatterers in the first Fresnel zone, which represent the vehicles, 
 4
 
 
Figure 2.1 Vehicle-to-vehicle field strength measurement system 
 
Figure 2.2 The photograph of the 
transmitter 
Figure 2.3 The photograph of the 
receiver 
 
Figure 2.4 The photograph of the 
transmitter in outdoor 
Figure 2.5 The photograph of the 
receiver in outdoor 
 
 6
 
Figure 2.7 The photograph of the site A 
2.2.2 Site B (open area with traffic) 
The measurement was done on the highway 68 to represent the open area with 
traffic. The site B is the overpass way, there are few buildings on both sides. There 
are a lot of cars on site B, which may result in scattering effects. Figure 2.8 and Figure 
2.9 illustrate the sketch map and the photograph of the measured route respectively. 
 8
between site C and site D is that the road width of site C is greater than site D. Figure 
2.10 ~Figure 2.13 illustrate the sketch map and the photograph of the measured routes 
respectively. 
 
Figure 2.10 The measurement route of site C on the map 
 
Figure 2.11 The photograph of the site C 
 10
obviously that the path loss increase with Tx.-Rx. separation distance. Because of 
fewer obvious reflectors or cars, the field strength varies slightly comparing with the 
other sites.  
 
                (a)                                (b) 
Figure 2.14 Path loss versus Tx-Rx distance of measured data at site A 
(a) 900MHz ; and (b) 1200MHz
 
2.3.2 Site B 
The site B is the overpass way, there are few buildings on both sides. Because of 
the cars which move along with the transmitter or receiver, it may induce deep fading 
due to destructive or constructive interference. Figure 2.15a and Figure 2.15b show 
the measured path loss versus T-R separation at frequency 900 MHz and 1200 MHz 
respectively.   
 
 
                  (a)                                (b) 
Figure 2.15 Path loss versus Tx-Rx distance of measured data at site B 
(a) 900MHz ; and (b) 1200MHz
 12
III. Modeling of Vehicle-to-Vehicle spatio-temporal channels 
The hybrid Spatio-Temporal channel model is developed to describe vehicle-to-vehicle 
fading channels. The model will be validated by the measurement data. 
3.1 The hybrid model 
    The hybrid (deterministic-statistical) model comprises a site-specific propagation 
model and a statistical model. In the model, the received electric field after the antenna is 
determined by a superposition of deterministic and randomly scattered fields [13], which 
is given by 
                          srdrtotal EEE +=                           (3.1) 
where ∑•=
i
didr EE
vv *ρ  and ∑=
i
sisr EE
v
 with *ρv  being the complex conjugation of 
unit polarization vector of the receiving antenna. drE  represents the deterministic ray 
field diE computed by a site-specific model. srE  represents the summation of each 
scattered field siE  due to randomly positioned scatterers. 
    The site-specific model includes multipath propagation in both vertical and 
horizontal planes. The vertical plane is defined by the transmitter and the receiver 
positions and is perpendicular to the earth surface, where propagation paths due to direct 
wave and ground-reflected wave are considered. The horizontal plane is perpendicular to 
the vertical plane, where propagation paths due to wall-reflected waves are considered. 
It is noted that we only the randoly scattered paths in the horizontal plane due to similar 
heights of Tx and Rx antennas. 
3.1.1 Site-specific model 
    The proposed model includes three major propagation modes: (i) a direct-path wave, 
DE
v
; (ii) a ground-reflected wave, GE
v
; and (iii) the reflected field from the walls along 
the roadway, WE
v
. Summation of these waves determines the receiving field at the 
observation position and yields 
WGDdr EEEE
vvvv ++=                          (3.2) 
The ground-reflected wave, is given by 
)()( ggfrtoG RdLGGEE θvv =                     (3.3) 
The wall-reflected wave, is given by 
)()( wwfrtoW RdLGGEE θ
vv =                     (3.4) 
where oE
v  is the field one meter away from the transmitting antenna. tG  and rG  are the 
field amplitude patterns of the transmitting and the receiving antennas, respectively. 
 14
where α  is the scattering attenuation factor, which is assumed to be uniformly 
distributed in the region from 0 to 1. 
From the definition of the Fresenl zone, the major axis half length ma  and the minor 
axis half length mb  of the ellipse are given by 
,
22
1
,
24
2
0
2
0
0
ddb
da
m
m
−⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ +=
+=
λ
λ
                       (3.7) 
 
3.2 Validation of the hybrid model 
    The model is verified by the measured data at the four sites measured at 900 MHz 
and 1200 MHz. Figures 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5 illustrate the 900 MHz measured data and 
the computed results of the received power versus T-R distance for site A, site B, site C 
and site D, respectively. It is found that the hybrid model has reasonable prediction 
accuracy of the received power at four sites. It also found that N =0.08 at site A, 
N =0.12 at site B, and N =0.3 at sites C and D may be suitable values. Figures 3.2, 3.3, 
3.4 and 3.5 illustrate the 900 MHz measured data and the computed results of cumulative 
distribution of small scale fading with Ricean fitting curve for site A, site B, site C, and 
site D, respectively. It is also found that the hybrid model still has better prediction 
accuracy of the Ricean factor K . Table 3.1 shows the best-fitting path loss exponents 
and the standard deviations of shadowing at four sites for measured data and computed 
results. Table 3.2 shows the correlation distances for measured data and computed results. 
There is a larger difference between the measured and computed results for open area. It 
is probably because that the reflected waves from far reflectors are neglected. Table 3.3 
shows the Ricean factors for measured data and computed results. From these tables, it 
can be found that the hybrid model present the good prediction accuracy of the 
vehicle-to-vehicle channel fading characteristics. 
 
                (a)                                 (b) 
Figure 3.2 Received power versus Tx-Rx distance at site A for 900MHz 
(a) Measured data; and (b) Computed results 
 16
 
                  (a)                                (b) 
Figure 3.6 Cumulative distribution of small scale fading with Ricean fitting curve at  
site A for 900MHz. (a) Measured data with Ricean factor, K=13 
(b) Computed results with Ricean factor , K=12.3 
 
                   (a)                                (b) 
Figure 3.7 Cumulative distribution of small scale fading with Ricean fitting curve at site 
B for 900MHz. (a) Measured data with Ricean factor, K=6 
(b) Computed results with Ricean factor, K=6.7 
 
(a)                                (b) 
Figure 3.8 Cumulative distribution of small scale fading with Ricean fitting curve at  
site C for 900MHz. (a) Measured data with Ricean factor, K=3 
(b) Computed results with Ricean factor, K=2.4 
18 
Table 3.2 Comparisons between measurement data and computed results of the 
correlation distance. (a) 900 MHz ; and (b) 1200 MHz. 
Measurement 
sites 
( )mrc  
(measured)
( )mrc  
(computed)
Site A 7.9 10.2 
Site B 7.1 9.9 
Site C 5.7 6.8 
Site D 5 6.1 
                                    (a) 
 
Measurement 
sites 
( )mrc  
(measured)
( )mrc  
(computed)
Site A 7.7 8.7 
Site B 7 8.3 
Site C 4.7 5.8 
Site D 3.7 5.2 
 (b) 
Table 3.3 Comparisons between measurement data and computed results for the 
Ricean factors. (a) 900 MHz ; and (b) 1200 MHz 
Measurement 
sites 
K 
(measured) 
K 
(computed) 
Site A 13 12.3 
Site B 6 6.7 
Site C 3 2.4 
Site D 2.7 2 
(a) 
Measurement 
sites 
K 
(measured) 
K 
(computed) 
Site A 12.5 11.7 
Site B 5.8 6.2 
Site C 2 2.1 
Site D 2.5 1.8 
(b) 
 
20 
Reference 
[1] Ki-Ho Lee; Dong-Ho Cho; “A multiple access collision avoidance protocol for  
multicast services in mobile ad hoc networks” Communications Letters, IEEE Vol. 
7,  Issue 10,  Oct. 2003. 
[2] Bellofiore, S.; Foutz, J.; Govindarajula, R.; Bahceci, I.; Balanis, C.A.; Spanias, 
A.S.; Capone, J.M.; Duman, T.M.; “Smart antenna system analysis, integration 
and  performance for mobile ad-hoc networks (MANETs)” Selected Areas in  
Communications, IEEE Journal onVolume 18,  Issue 9,  Sept. 2000. 
[3] Chirag S. Patel , Gordon L. Stuber and Thomas G. Pratt, “Simulation of Rayleigh Faded      
Mobile-to-Mobile Communication Channels” VTC 2003-Fall. 2003 IEEE 58th   
Volume 1,  6-9 Oct. 2003 Page(s):163 - 167 Vol.1. 
[4] Li-Chun Wang and Yun-Huai Cheng, “A statistical mobile-to-mobile Rician 
fading channel model” VTC 2005-Spring. 2005.  
[5]Francesco Vatalaro,, and Alessandro Forcella, “Doppler Spectrum in 
Mobile-to-Mobile Communications in the Presence of Three-Dimensional 
Multipath Scattering” IEEE, Transactions on vehicular tech. VOL. 46, NO. 1, 
February 1997. 
[6]Abdulkader S . Akki,“Statistical Properties of Mobile-to-Mobile Land 
Communication Channels” Transactions on vehicular tech. VOL. 43, NO. 4. 
November 1994. 
[7] John S. Davis, and Jean Paul M.G. Linnartz, “Vehicle to Vehicle RF Propagation    
Measurements” Signals, Systems and Computers, 1994. Volume 1, 31 Oct.-2 Nov.    
1994 Page(s):470 - 474 vol.1. 
[8] Dongsoo Har, Henry L. Bertoni, “Effect of the local propagation model on LOS 
microcellular system design,” Networking the Next Generation, Proceedings IEEE 
Volume 2,  24-28 March 1996 Page(s):451 - 456 vol.2. 
[9] J.H. Tarng and Yu-Jiun Ren, "A Hybrid Spatio-Temporal Radio Channel Model for 
Urban and Suburban Environments”, appeared on 2006 IEEE AP-S International 
Symposium on Antennas and Propagation and USNC/URSI National Radio 
Science Meeting, pp.4755-4758. 
[10] J.H. Tarng and Yu-Jiun Ren,”A Hybrid Spatio-Temporal Model for Radio 
Propagation in Urban Environment,” invited, on EuCAP 2007. 
[11] Marvin R. Arias, Bengt Mandersson “An approach of the geometrical-based 
single bounce elliptical channel model for mobile environments” 
Communication Systems, 2002, ICCS 2002. The 8th International Conference 
on Volume 1,  25-28 Nov. 2002 Page(s):11 - 16 vol.1. 
 
表 Y04 
 
二、與會心得 
1. 整體而言，會議規模雖小，但議題集中，與會人士專長一致性高，會議中良好溝
通，充分達到技術交流目的、收穫頗豐，與會人士重覆參加意願提高。 
2. 從與會人士報告中，可看出台灣方面提出的論文，整體上（除數量多外），與最
新技術發展趨勢之吻和度較佳，但在理論方面及數值分析，則中國大陸方面則有
較多的論文。這似乎也反應台灣學術界有整體較佳的研究環境與資源，較容易從
事 up-to-date 的研究主題，但往往忽略基礎研究；反觀中國大陸學界人數眾多，
研究領域涵蓋廣泛涵蓋相關基礎研究主題至最新研究主題。不過，經由技術之交
流反而造成彼此之互補。 
3. 本人主持 8 月 25 日之 Electromagnetic Theory 2 之場次，除本人報告
“Characterization of Wideband Spatio-Temporal Radio Channels for Beyond-3G 
Systems＂外，尚有元智大學（彭松村教授）及交通大學（黃瑞彬教授）共同發
表兩篇文章，研究週期性結構及 Band Edge 技術，北京理工大學則介紹該校電磁
模擬之研究成果，相當具技術深度及可看性，西安電子科技大學則介紹利用數值
方法探討磁化等離子體三維性電磁散射物問題。會中討論熱烈欲罷不能，超過會
議結束時間 20 分鐘。 
 
三、建議 
z 今年是本人第三次參加這項會議，由於這次澳門大學的精心規劃，深深感覺這次
會議論文的技術水平與參加學者之踴躍為近年來之冠，無形中也促成相當良好的
學術交流。 
z 中國大陸及港澳微波學術界具相當深厚及紮實基礎，台灣學界在論文發表之壓力
下及擁有較佳之資源和產業環境，尤其國科會 CIC 免費晶片下線之配合，在應
用性強的研究項目具明顯之優勢；不過，如何強化電波／微波基礎研究（例如與
物理學門合作），強化學生基礎訓練則成為國內需即早因應的問題。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
此次攜回資料有 2006 CSTRWC 會議論文集光碟片及 Dr. Wen（Keynote Speaker）
簡報電子檔。 
 
 
random variables defined through probability density 
functions (PDFs) and cross-correlations.  Detailed model 
parameters are listed in Table 5.1 of [4]. 
The 3GPP SCME is an extension to the SCM for 
bandwidths up to 20 MHz.  In 3GPP SCME, the 20 sub-paths 
of SCM are split into 3 subsets, denoted as mid-paths, which 
are moved to different delays relative to the original path.  The 
delays and powers of these 3 mid-paths are predetermined by 
an exponential power decay function with 10-ns delay spread.  
To keep the fading distribution close to Rayleigh, a mid-path 
is lumped of 4 or more sub-paths.  The mid-path ASs (ASi 
where i is the mid-path index) are optimized such that the 
deviation from the path AS (ASn where n is the path index), 
i.e. the AS of all mid-paths combined, is minimized.  The 
delays and the corresponding sub-paths of each mid-path are 
listed in Table 1 of [5]. 
III. MEASUREMENT SETUP AND SITES 
A. Measurement System 
The RUSK wideband vector channel sounder [13] is 
employed here to measure directional mobile radio channels.  
It consists of a mobile transmitter (Tx) with an omni-
directional antenna, and a fixed receiver (Rx) with an 8-
element ULA (Uniform Linear Array), where each element is 
a 0.5 wavelength dipole antenna and the spacing between 
neighboring elements is 0.4 wavelengths.  The effective 
azimuth range of the ULA is 120º.  Periodic multi-frequency 
excitation of 50-MHz bandwidth is used, i.e., the time 
resolution of the system is 20ns.  Calibration process of the 
rubidium reference removes the tracking error of the 
measurement system and provides a reference plane to ensure 
the accuracy of the absolute delay time. 
The channel impulse responses of the antenna array are 
recorded as “vector snapshots” in rapid succession.  After 
receiving by the Rx, signals are gathered at the digital 
receiving unit and sent to a personal computer (PC) to analyze 
the power, time-of-arrival (ToA), and angle-of-arrival (AoA) 
of the received impulse response.  Here, the AoA is estimated 
by using Unitary ESPRIT with the sub-array smoothing 
technology [14]. 
B. Measurement Sites 
Extended spatio-temporal channel impulse response 
measurements were performed in several macrocellular 
environments, including urban and suburban areas.  A 
summary of measurement sites is given in Table I.  At each 
site, the Rx and its antenna were mounted on a rooftop; the Tx 
and its antenna were carried in a trolley with antenna height of 
1.8 meter above the ground.  The transmission power is equal 
to 1 W at frequency of 1.95 GHz. 
Measurement was done along selected routes with a speed 
of 10 kilometers per hour.  Numerous parked vehicles and 
trees were lined along the roads in which many types of 
buildings were involved such as office buildings, apartments, 
schoolhouses, stores, etc. 
TABLE I 
MEASUREMENT SETUP AND ENVIRONMENTS 
Site 
Rx 
antenna 
height 
Numbers of sampled 
routes and points 
Tx-Rx 
separation 
Measurement 
environment 
Site A 
(urban 
macro, 
large city) 
48 m Total number of the 
sampled routes is 6 
and each has 500 
meters long 
approximately. Total 
sampled points are 
about 1800. 
50~510 m Heavily built 
up area with 
an average 
building 
height of 10 
stories. The 
maximum one 
is 26 stories.  
Site B 
(urban 
macro, 
medium 
city) 
40 m Total number of the 
sampled routes is 4 
and each has 250 
meters long 
approximately. Total 
sampled points are 
about 400. 
50~320 m Typical urban 
area with an 
average 
building 
height of 6 
stories. The 
maximum one 
is 16 stories.  
Site C 
(suburban 
macro) 
27 m Total number of the 
sampled routes is 5 
and each has 150 
meters long 
approximately. Total 
sampled points are 
about 300. 
70~360 m Small village 
with buildings 
of 3~6 stories 
and gardens 
with trees and 
pools.  
IV. VALIDATIONS OF SCM/SCME 
Here, the channel parameters of 3GPP SCM as shown in 
Table 5.1 of [4] are extracted from extensive measurement 
data with bandwidths of 5 MHz, 20 MHz and 50 MHz.  It is 
noted that from Table I the urban and suburban macro 
environments are considered but the urban micro case is not 
included in our measurement sites.  In addition, the statistical 
properties of AS at mobile station (MS) are not analyzed due 
to the limitation of the measurement system. 
A. Path Loss 
The path loss model in 3GPP SCM/SCME is based on the 
COST-Hata model for urban and suburban macro 
environments.  The path loss exponent is equal to 3.5 when 
the antenna height of the base station is set to 32 meters.  In 
our measurements, the path loss exponents of Sites A, B, and 
C are equal to 3.4, 3.7, and 3.3, respectively. 
B. Shadow Fading 
In 3GPP SCM/SCME, the shadow fading is modeled by a 
log-normal distribution with 8 dB standard deviation.  In our 
measurements, it is found that the shadow fading is also well 
modeled by a log-normal distribution.  Meanwhile, the 
measured standard deviation is in the range of 7.1~9.2 dB, 
which is closed to 3GPP SCM/SCME. 
C. Angle Spread at Base Station 
In 3GPP SCM/SCME, the AS at base station is modeled by 
a log-normal distribution.  The mean AS is equal to 5° for 
suburban macro, and two values, 8° and 15° are defined for 
urban macro environments.  Fig. 1 shows the measured and 
computed histograms of AS at base station for Site B with 20-
MHz bandwidth.  It is found that the measured one is well 
fitted by a log-normal distribution.  Other sites have same 
situation and Table II shows the related parameters of AS at 
