business gain in faraway rural area, or setting 
up and maintaining wired cord has difficul-
ties and danger. Accordingly, there have 
many researches to study wireless backbone 
links among BSs. The networks are called 
wireless backbone networks (WBN). 
 
2. The Motivations and Goals 
In view of the demand of wireless access 
and high bandwidth transmissions, the fixed 
broadband wireless access (BWA) system, 
such as the local multipoint distribution ser-
vice (LMDS), is proposed to offer multime-
dia services to a number of discrete sub-
scriber sites. This is accomplished by using 
base stations (BSs) to provide network access 
services for subscriber sites, which are based 
on the IEEE 802.16e wireless metropolitan 
area networks (WMANs) standards [4]. They 
comprise the medium access control (MAC) 
layer and the physical (PHY) layer [14], that 
dominated the main part of BWA. 
Since the error probability of a data 
burst depends on the channel conditions to 
the subscribers, the probability of successful 
transmission can be improved by distributing 
slots of each data burst into different time of 
slots and subchannels. Therefore, this paper 
proposes a scattered mapping method called 
fault-tolerant transmission mechanism (FTM) 
by breaking up the burst blocks into slots and 
then allocating them into different positions 
in the frame via a turntable algorithm (TA). 
By using FTM, the slots of previous bursts 
can be rearranged and will be put into the 
whole frame space to support a stable and 
secure transmission. A detailed FTM will be 
illustrated in following sections. 
 
3. fault-tolerant transmission 
mechanism 
Based on IEEE 802.16e OFDMA speci-
fications, the operating spectrum can be di-
vided into Nc subchannels and each suchan-
nel occupies Ns time slots for multiple access 
usage as shown in Fig. 1. The modulation 
scheme quadrature phase-shift keying 
(QPSK), Mn-ary rectangular/square quadra-
ture amplitude modulators (QAMs), the for-
ward error correction (FEC) codes, and 
Reed-Solomon (RS) concatenated with con-
volutional codes (CC) schemes are consid-
ered. 
Since the wireless channel quality is 
mainly subject to the instantaneous sig-
nal-to-noise ratio (SNR) γ, which is the sta-
tistical description based on the general Na-
kagamim model, the received SNR γ per 
frame can thus be a random variable with a 
Gamma probability density function, i.e., 
1
( ) exp
( )
m m
m
m mp
mγ
γ γγ γ γ
− ⎛ ⎞= −⎜ ⎟Γ ⎝ ⎠  
where m is the Nakagami fading parameter 
(m ≥ 1/2), { }Eγ γ=  is the average received 
SNR, and  is the Gamma 
function, respectively. This channel model is 
suitable for flat-fading channels as well as 
frequency-selective fading channels in the 
OFDMA system. This model includes the 
Rayleigh channel when m = 1. Let Nm de-
note the total number of transmission modes 
available. The transmission power is as-
sumed constant and the entire 
dtetm tm −−∞∫=Γ 10)(
SNR range is partitioned into Nm+1 
nonoverlapping consecutive intervals, with 
boundary points denoted as . In this 
case, mode n is chosen when 
1
0{ } m
N
n nγ +=
,,,2,1),,[ 1 mnn Nn K=∈ +γγγ  
in which γ should be in the range of the cor-
responding modulation and coding rate. To 
avoid deep-channel fading, no data are sent 
when 0 1γ γ γ≤ < , which corresponds to the 
mode n = 0 with rate R0 = 0 bits/symbol.  
To simplify the AMC design, we ap-
proximate the slot error rate (SER) expres-
sion in AWGN channel as 
1, if 0
SER ( )
exp( ), if 
n
p
n n
n n pa g
γ γγ γ γ γ
⎧ < <⎪≈ ⎨ − ≥⎪⎩
 
where n is the mode index and γ is the re-
ceived SNR. Parameters an, gn, and npγ  are 
mode-dependent and are obtained by fitting 
(3) to the exact SER. Let the region boundary 
(switching threshold) nγ  for the transmis-
sion mode n be the minimum SNR required 
to guarantee S0. Inverting the SER expression 
in (3), we obtain 
 2
subject to the fading effect. The model de-
signs the adjusted probability  by AiP
,mod)( LUi
A
i PPPP += γ  
where PU and PL are the adjusted successful 
transmission probability of the constraint 
upper and lower bound, respectively. 
3.1. Fault-tolerant Transmission Mecha-
nism 
The FTM is achieved by adjusting the 
time slot allocation of Bi with each other. The 
reason is that each subchannel has its corre-
sponding successful transmission probability 
)(γiP . The failed transmission probability 
caused by unpredictable external interference 
can be dispersed to different Bi, if some sub-
channel is under interference. Figure 3 shows 
an example of the rearranged time slots of 
burst blocks in the downlink frame period. 
This mechanism can be applied to the per-
mutations in some formula. Assume there are 
N = NcNs time slots in the downlink sub-
frame. The permutation group G can be for-
mulated as 
 
 4
Figure 3: An example of time slot rearrangement by 
FTM. 
The FTM is achieved by adjusting the time 
slot allocation of Bi with each other. The 
reason is that each subchannel has its corre-
sponding successful transmission probability 
)(γiP . The failed transmission probability 
caused by unpredictable external interference 
can be dispersed to different Bi, if some sub-
channel is under interference. Fig. Figure 3 
shows an example of the rearranged time 
slots of burst blocks in the downlink frame 
period. This mechanism can be applied to the 
permutations in some formula. Assume there 
are N = NcNs time slots in the downlink sub-
frame. The permutation group G can be for-
mulated as 
1 2 ... 1
13 20 5 ... ...
N N
G
−⎛ ⎞= ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠  
where the first row indicates the order of the 
original permutation of the time slots and the 
second row indicates the new arranged per-
mutation of original time slots. This rear-
rangement is an one-to-one correspondence 
mapping. The time T(G) with the product of 
the permutation can be modeled as 
( )
1
1( )
| |
k
n
j g
k
g G k
T G a
G ∈ =
= ∑∏  
where |G| and g ∈ G are the absolute time of 
the permutation and a time of permutation, 
respectively, k and jk(g) are the length of the 
permutation cycle and the number of cycles 
with the permutation cycle length k in g. 
The details of probability-based FTM 
are described in the following four steps. 
z STEP 1 Ps(Bi) Computing: First FTM 
obtains the successful transmission 
probability Ps(Bi) for all i=0, 1,…,NB -1, 
where NB is the number of bursts in this 
time period by using (8). 
z STEP 2 Turntable Algorithm Opti-
mal Choice: The problem of determin-
ing the optimal slot allocation from G 
among Bi so that the average successful 
transmission probabilities of all Bi de-
noted as , 
where )( is BP
∑ −= ′=′ 10 /)()( BNi Biss NBPtP
′  is the successful trans-
mission probability of rearranged Bi, is 
greater than 
∑ −== 10 ,/)()( BNi Biss NBPtP  
or )()( tPtP ss ≥′ is an NP-complete 
problem [13]. To obtain a better Ps(Bi), 
the time slots is aligned according to 
their corresponding Pi(γ) in descending 
order, P(Sij) ≥ P(Skl) for all i, k = 0, 
Power saving mechanism (PSM) uses 
the MOB TRF-IND message to wake up an 
MS if it is in the PS mode and there has any 
traffic for it. Once an MS wakes up from PS 
mode, the BS has to allocate bandwidth to 
the MS for data transmission. However, 
when an MS wake up, the energy will be 
wasted if there is no available bandwidth for 
that MS. To avoid this drawback, we design 
an adaptive traffic indication (ATIA) algo-
rithm combined with packet scheduling 
scheme to reduce the energy consumption. 
First, ATIA separates the operational 
state S0 into two states SN and SE. SN repre-
sents the normal operational state and SE 
represents the extended power saving (PS) 
state. When an MS is in SN, it can receive 
data from the BS if there is a bandwidth for it. 
Otherwise, the MS will be notified to enter 
SE for extended power saving. 
 6
i
3.2.1. The Available Bandwidth Alloca-
tion 
Consider m RT-VR and n NRT connec-
tions in the system and the priority of RT-VR 
is higher than that of NRT connections. 
ATIA follows the priority order to allocate 
available bandwidth for connection usage. 
Therefore, the available bandwidth BA = B - 
BR can be used for allocation to NRT con-
nections, where B is the total bandwidth of 
the system measured in OFDMA slots and 
is the total required 
bandwidth of RT-VR connections per each 
subframe. 
iR
n
i RR
biiB /)()(1
0
l∑ −== λ
If BA is enough for NRT connections, 
i.e., BA ≥ BN where 
 1
0
( ) ( ) /nN N NiB i iλ−==∑ l b  
represents the total required bandwidth of 
NRT connections, all NRT connections will 
be served in time in the current subframe. 
Otherwise, the bandwidth is not enough for 
supporting all connections to be served in the 
current subframe, i.e., BA < BN, ATIA will 
determine some NRT connections prior to 
serve. 
3.2.2. The Selection Criteria 
The criterion of connection selection for 
bandwidth allocation follows the priority of 
each connection by its corresponding queu-
ing length Qi(t) and waiting times in SE de-
noted as ω. The priority order of each con-
nection Wi is formulated as 
ω/)(tQW ii = . 
Where ω = 1, 2,…,∞ and ω ∈ . The value 
of Qi(t) is time-vary and can be calculated as 
)1()()( −+= tQitQ iNi δλ  
where δ represents the duration time of a 
subframe. The ATIA simply selects the low-
est value of Wi as the highest priority con-
nection. 
arg min iii W=  
Therefore, if two connections Ci and Cj have 
Wi < Wj , then Ci is first selected for serving 
until all BA is exhausted. Before a Ci enters 
SE, it may stays in either SS or SN as shown in 
Figure 7. There are two circumstances that a 
Ci will enter SE. 
 
Figure 7 : The state transition diagram 
C1: The Ci is waked up from SS and there is 
no available bandwidth for the Ci. The 
sleeping time duration in SE denoted as Te is 
  8
Figure 10: A interlace transmission scheme. 
 
Figure 11: Frame Structure of BS and BRS. 
 
Figure 12: The relationship among delay, number of 
hops and frame duration. 
3.3.1.3. Frame structure 
Downlink access zone (DLAZ) and 
downstream backhaul zone (DLBZ) concen-
trate on allocating DL and UL bursts of sub-
scribers. Uplink access zone (ULAZ) and 
upstream backhaul zone (ULBZ) allocate 
down and up stream bursts of BSs. 
BRS frame structure have receiving 
backhaul zone (RxBZ) and transmitting 
backhaul zone (TxBZ) to receive and trans-
mit backhaul traffic. The other frame struc-
ture for BRS channels in BRS is divided into 
Rx and Tx subframe. 
In Figure 11, we refer BRS1 to an odd 
BRS and BRS2 to an even BRS, so BRS1’s 
frame starts at Rx subframe. Contrarily, 
BRS2’s frame begins at Tx subframe. Thus 
we implement the interlace transmission 
scheme on the design of the frame structure.  
3.3.2. Simulation result & conclusion 
Parameters used in our simulation are in 
table I, and simulation results is in Figure 12. 
When Rx and Tx subframe duration 
becomes shorter, the average delay per 
packet decrease. However, every subframe 
needs the MAP to indicate the information of 
transmitting burst, there may cause the 
throughput decreasing and the spectrum effi-
ciency is low.  
4. Conclusions and Discussions 
This year, we proposes an Relay-based 
Architecture in IEEE 802.16e. The node call 
backhaul relay station (BRS) mainly concen-
trate on forward backhaul traffic data in this 
network. Based on this concept, our archi-
tecture is compatible with IEEE 802.16 
standard. For improve the bandwidth, we  
design FTM for reduce the interference be-
tween different subchannel. By using FTM, 
the slots of previous bursts can be rearranged 
and will be put into the whole frame space to 
support a stable and secure transmission. 
Supporting the mobility, ATIA improve the 
energy efficiency for low priority conneciton.  
Finally, we proposed an Relay-based 
Architecture and design FTM and ATIA to 
increase the stable of that architecture. In the 
simulation, we prove our mechanism can 
smooth work and get better performance. 
 
5. References  
[1] M.S. Alouini, and A.J. Goldsmith, “Adaptive 
Modulation over Nakagami Fading Channels,” 
Kluwer J. Wirel. Commun., vol. 13, no. 1/2, pp. 
119-143, May 2000. 
[2] J. Chen and W.-K. Tan, “Predictive Dynamic 
Channel Allocation Scheme for Improving Power 
Saving and Mobility in BWA Networks,” 
ACM/Springer Mobile Networks and Applica-
出 席 國 際 會 議 報 告 書 
報告人：陳仁暉 
會議地點及時間：自 2008 年 7 月 28 日至 2008 年 7 月 31 日      中國香港 
會議名稱：ICST QShine 2008 
發表論文題目： 
Fault Tolerant Transmission Mechanism for IEEE 802.16e OFDMA Systems 
一、參加會議經過 
此次國際會議ICST QShine 2008在香港九龍逸東酒店國際會議廳舉行，會議
共舉辦4天，包括3天的Technical Sessions: Oral Presentations以及第四天的
Workshop。此一會議的主要討論議題以網路為主，內容涵蓋Ad Hoc Networks, 
Sensor Networks, WiMAX Networks，以及對網路Quality, Reliability, Security, and 
Robustness等研究議題進行研討。以下是筆者在此次會議中所記錄下來的相關技
術報告： 
1. Keynote Speech 
此次大會共邀請兩位國際通訊領域的著名學者蒞臨專題演講，分別為加拿大
英屬哥倫比亞大學首席教授Vijay K. Bhargava，所演講的題目為“Cognitive Radio 
Networks: The Future is Friendly”。所謂的感知型無線網路，是由一種稱為可主動
搜尋可供利用之無線電頻段，於某一個時段與空間(地點)，利用無線電頻譜的有
效率利用，以增加頻道的使用率，使得無線頻譜的有效資源能夠有效的使用。此
一研究需要各種的基礎理論研究與系統的初期評估，同時亦急需要研發與設計無
線感知可調式物理層的支援，如Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access 
(OFDMA)及Ultra Wide Band (UWB)等成熟技術的發展，並需要重新制訂一個全
新的媒介存取通訊協定Medium Access Control (MAC) Protocol。 
第二位Keynote Speech演講者為現任交通大學研發長林一平教授，林教授在個
人通訊領域的研究享譽國際，多項研究發明到目前為止，仍為此一領域的先驅技
術。他今年的演講講題為“Reducing Call Costs Across Various International 
Telecommunications Networks”，此一題目為目前國際漫遊技術中，存在著的一個
由於安排在第二位報告的雲林虎尾科大教授張朝揚未到，就由第三位博士班
學生目前就讀於University of Manitoba, CA的Jun Cai來報告，內容即對於WiMAX 
Relay技術中如何增加Frequency Reusing的方法提出辦法，其內容為最新的研究議
題，符合研究潮流，可惜的是由學生來報告，因為可能他較少使用英文，故有許
多關鍵問題並非描述的清楚，有待進一步詢問。 
二、與會心得 
此次的與會認識了Session 15的議程主席程雨，程教授為目前Illinois Institute 
of Technology的講座教授。利用此次的會議順道邀請程教授，另擇他日至本校演
講，可以促進兩系間的交流，以達成工程教育認證國際交流的目的。個人此次參
與國際研討會之後，利用剩於時間於香港各處參訪，圖一為個人至香港最大的維
多利亞港欣賞夜景留念。 
 
圖一、本人於會議最後一天的晚上至香港Victoria港參觀留影。 
三、建議 
近年來學校成為國內重點發展大學，在出國補助方面有許多的進步，對於優
秀碩士學生申請出國發表國際論文的補助，有著實質上的改善，個人十分感謝校
方在作育英才上的付出。希望此一獎勵補助措施能夠成為常態，以擴大學校對於
