行政院國家科學委員會補助產學合作研究計畫成果精簡報告 
計畫名稱：以熱裂解化學氣相沈積法製作碳奈米螺旋線圈場發射陰極燈絲 
計畫類別：□ 先導型  □ 開發型    ■ 技術及知識應用型 
計畫編號：NSC 99－2622－E－606－004－CC3 
執行期間： 99 年 11 月 01 日 至 100 年 10 月 31 日 
執行單位：國防大學化學及材料工程學系 
計畫主持人：劉益銘 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 
姓   名 年   級 
(大學部、碩
士班、博士
班) 
已發表論文或已申請之專利 
(含大學部專題研究論文、碩博
士論文) 
工作內容 
鍾坤儒 博士班 研討會論文(獲得 2011, 
IUMRS-ICA 12th International 
Conference in Asia, Excellent Poster 
Award.) 
監督實驗進度，分析研究
數據，相關實驗分析及檢
測。 
唐翊豪 碩士班 碩士論文、研討會論文 整體實驗執行，架設實驗設備及相關分析測試。 
林坤儀 碩士班 研討會論文 整體實驗執行，架設實驗設備及相關分析測試。 
孫紫茹 碩士班 研討會論文 整體實驗執行，架設實驗設備及相關分析測試。 
 
研究摘要(500 字以內)： 
奈米碳材具有非常好的場發射特性，以奈米碳材製作大尺寸平面顯示器之
背光源（BLU）或無汞化照明燈具具有相當大的應用潛力。本計畫即針對製作
場發射光源所需之高電壓、低電流特殊場發陰極特性需求，以熱裂解化學氣相
沈積法製作碳奈米螺旋線圈場發射陰極燈絲，所製作出之陰極燈絲須在與陽極
螢光粉間隔 7.5 mm 之長間距下，於 6000-8000 V 電壓下能均勻發射場發射電
子，以延長螢光粉壽命並得到良好之發光效果，並調整其在高電壓下之場發射
電流，使場發射燈源能在高電壓下穩定持續發射電子束。 
 
人才培育成果說明： 
本計畫結合師生，落實務實致用之特色，對於參與之工作人員，預期可獲
技術特點說明： 
依照目前業界之相關研究經驗，P22 螢光粉若欲達到良好之發光效果，其
場發射陰極應該可耐住 6000-8000 V 之高電壓，而與陽極之間仍不會產生放電
（arcing）現象，而且場發射電流仍可維持在 2 mA/cm2以下，此種要求對於具
備「低電壓、高電流」特性之奈米碳管場發射陰極而言，幾乎無法達成。因此，
本計畫特別針對上述「高電壓、低電流」之要求，開發出一種在 6000-8000 V
之高電壓下能穩定以較低電流通量發射電子且仍具備高均勻性、高穩定性及足
夠壽命之奈米碳材場發射陰極燈絲。 
 
可利用之產業及可開發之產品： 
照明產業：無汞節能省電日光燈、省電燈泡及平面光源 
顯示器產業：背光模組元件 
國防工業 
 
推廣及運用的價值：  
(1).獲得奈米碳材之穩定化成長及應用技術。 
(2).獲得場發射光源之製程本土化技術。 
(3).提升傳統產業技術，增加廠商利潤，降低生產成本。 
(4).相關工作人員可獲得奈米材料之研發訓練及產品開發系統化經驗。 
對於學術研究、產業界、國家發展及其他應用方面預期之貢獻。 
(1).建立本土之場發射光源製程技術，促進傳統產業升級。 
(2).降低生產成本，並提昇合作廠商研發技術。 
(3).培養技術人才，符合教育目標。 
(4).使廠商根留台灣，創造廠商與政府雙贏。 
 
※ 備註：此研究案成果發表三篇論文於 2011, IUMRS-ICA 12th International 
Conference in Asia 國際研討會 (其中一篇獲得海報論文獎)，目前主持
人正在重新整理準備投稿 SCI 國際期刊中。 
acyl radicals propylene acid amide monomer, the change 
monomer solid content is 1-10 ﹪, content of because of the 
change monomer proportion, prepares high polymer of the 
different molecular weight. The combined sequence first first 
dissolves the potassium persulfate in the deionized water, 
takes the suitable quantity in the conical flask, joins styrene 
monomer (Styrene) and the N- isopropyl group propylene acid 
amide monomer in the potassium persulfate peroxide solution. 
And in the oil bath temperature 75~80  responded that 8 ℃
hours namely complete preparation of the functionality high 
polymer. Synthesis functionality high polymer heating to 
70~90 , (Pd℃ 2+) pours into again the precious metal ion 
arrowhead solution in the beaker, controls because of the 
change reaction time returns to original state the nanometer 
granule particle size size, observes the arrowhead nanometer 
granule return to original state situation again by TEM, the 
ICP examination return to original state the nanometer granule 
content, and examines its structure because of XRD. 
 
2.3 TCVD carbon nano-material synthesis 
The pyrolysis process using chemical vapor deposition 
(TCVD, Thermal Chemical Vapor Deposition) growth of 
nano-carbon material, the process gas is hydrogen (H2) and 
acetylene (C2H2), argon (Ar) for the protection of gas. The 
steps described below:  
(1) completion of the stainless steel wire dipping into the 
quartz tube and pushed to the central reactor tube, then tube 
all the valves closed, then open the vacuum suction pump for 
the program, so that the quartz tube to achieve - 760psi of the 
vacuum.  
(2) When the quartz tube to-760psi vacuum, it begins to 
pass into the argon and hydrogen flow rates were 100 sccm 
and 10 sccm, and then shutting off the exhaust pump, 
continuing through into the protective gas (Ar) and activation 
of the gas (H2) pressure recovery within the tube is 1 atm.  
(3) on high-temperature furnace of the heater, set the 
desired temperature, heating rate per minute, 20 , heating ℃
process, argon and hydrogen continued access, flow rates 
were 100sccm, 10sccm, when the temperature reaches the set 
target, begin pre-processing operations through the hydrogen, 
argon gas flow rate remains unchanged, the hydrogen flow 
rate is changed to 20 sccm, last 10 min, followed by a 
synthesis stage, argon and hydrogen in addition to continued 
access, the acetylene gas which leads to a further source of 
carbon, flow rate of 5 sccm, carbon nano-material synthesis 
time of 10 ~ 40 min.  
(4) Upon the completion of synthesis process, the source 
of the hydrogen and acetylene gas off and cut heating 
controller so that the quartz tube to room temperature, cooling 
during the last pass into the protective gas argon, flow rate 
remains unchanged, the purpose is to order to avoid high 
temperatures, the quartz tube to generate unnecessary reaction 
to room temperature until the quartz tube when the sample can 
be removed, and the use of instruments to observe and 
analyze. 
 
Results and Discussion 
 
As the growth time would be the length of the carbon 
nano-coil helix, have an impact on the number, so the results 
will be under 600 ℃ , 10 min after activation through 
hydrogen, with different growth time (5 ~ 40 min) growth of 
carbon nano-helical coil observe the morphology of the 
different, and explore the field emission of light for the 
uniformity and the effect of electric field. Figure 1 (a) and 
Figure 2 (a) can be seen, when the process time of 5 min, the 
growth out of the nano-carbon material is more uniform and 
mostly carbon fiber, stainless steel wire itself may be by the 
material of Fe, Ni grow out of such catalyst, and when the 
process time to slowly stretch for 10 min, as shown in Figure 
1 (b) can be found in some clusters of slowly generating 
carbon material, in Figure 2 (b) more can be found slight 
formation of carbon nano-helical coil, but the process time is 
too short, so most of the carbon material, or presents a short 
trend, and when the process temperature for 20 min, we can 
see in Figure 1 (c) found there are many granular carbon 
materials, we look at these high power magnification of 
granular morphology, as shown in Figure 2 (c) can be found in 
large and uniform synthesis of carbon nano-spiral coil is, then 
we continue the process time to pull to 30 min long, we may 
be low magnification of Figure 1 (d) shows the original small 
granular carbon material, has formed a large cluster of 
nano-carbon material, we changed to high magnification 
Figure 2 (d) seen as a large and uniform of the synthesis of 
carbon nano-helical coil was, finally, we will lengthen the 
process time to 40 min, by Figure 2 (e) found that some 
promised the generation of non-crystalline carbon, which is 
probably because the growth over time long, leading to carbon 
atoms can not be effectively deposited on the catalyst. 
Next, we see from Figure 3, the length of time the 
process level and for the initial electric field is not 
significantly affected, but for the stability of field emission, or 
can be clearly seen, after a stretch of time when the process 
because synthesis of carbon nano-helical coil structure is more 
complete, so the stability becomes better, then, by Figure 4 (a) 
observation, because the resulting nano-carbon material 
mostly carbon fiber, resulting in uneven light uniformity is to 
when the process time stretching, you can see the light more 
uniform uniformity from Figure 4 (c), (d) a comparison, when 
the amount of carbon nano-helical coil more, the luminous 
uniformity will better, but the process time to reach 40 min, 
Figure 4 (e) its uniformity can be seen slightly lower trend 
line because of its surface slightly amorphous carbon 
formation, which indirectly affect the uniformity of their light. 
Therefore, we can see from Figure 3 and Figure 4, one can 
find as long as 30 min, which not only has a very uniform 
light-emitting properties, and its field emission test results are 
more consistent with the current high-voltage phosphor low 
current needs. 
 
References 
 
[1] Fowler, R. H. and Nordheim, L. W., Proc. R. Soc.London, 
Ser. A 119, 173(1928) 
 
  
The cathodes of field emission lamp fabricated with carbon nanocoils/stainless 
steel webs 
 
* M. H. Lee1, Y.C. Chen1, Y.M. Liu1, N. W. Pu1, M. D. Ger1 
 
1. Department of Chemistry & Materials Engineering, Chung Cheng Institute of Technology,  
National Defense University, Taiwan 335, ROC 
  *Corresponding Author’s E-mail: liuym@ndu.edu.tw (Y. M. Liu) 
 
ABSTRACT 
The cathodes of field emission lamp(FEL) fabricated with carbon nanocoils (CNCs) using thermal chemical vapor deposition 
(TCVD) process on 304 stainless steel (SS) webs were studied. Nano palladium (Pd) catalytic dots were directly deposited on 304 
SS web substrates using chemical displacement and then used to synthesize CNCs with C2H2/H2 as gas sources in the TCVD. The 
process parameters on Pd catalysts preparation such as concentration of solution and displacement time were evaluated and 
optimized for growing uniform CNCs. The grown CNCs were observed with field emission scanning electron microscope 
(FE-SEM) and transmission electron microscope (TEM) to know their morphologies and structures. The field emission properties 
of the prepared CNCs/ SS web cathodes were then evaluated with the field emission pattern and J-E curve test. 
 
Introduction 
 
In the research of the cathode materials of field emission 
lights (FELs), carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have been the 
mainstream in these days [1]. CNT is a good candidate 
material for such devices because of  its high aspect ratio, 
and small tip radii. The CNT cathode has low turn-on voltage 
and high current density [2], and it is suitable to FEL 
applications [3-5]. However, using CNTs as the field emitters 
encounters some issues such as poor emission stability and 
poor uniformity of the lighting spots. Compared to CNTs, 
carbon nanocoils (CNCs) hold the edge in the emission 
stability and uniformity [6-8], and are therefore candidates for 
the field emission cathode materials of the FELs. 
For potential application in field emission, the CNCs 
have also been widely examined [9,10]. Meanwhile, many  
works have been undertaken to understand the catalytic 
growth mechanism of CNCs. The synthesis of CNCs using 
displaced nano-Pd particles as catalyst and stainless steel 
webs (SSWs) as substrates was studied in this study. Their 
application for FELs was also evaluated. 
 
Experimental 
We used chemical displacement to prepare palladium 
catalyst, and control different concentrations of the palladium 
and  displacement time catalyst process. Synthetic approach 
to the chemical vapor deposition equipment for the growth of 
carbon nano-helical coil. And the research methods for the 
substrate preparation, catalyst preparation and chemical vapor 
deposition growth of carbon nano-helical coil of three parts, 
the steps are summarized below: 
2.1 Substrate preparation 
The substrate into the 10% ~ 37% HCl soak 3 ~ 10min in 
the etching of metal corrosion or oxidation film etching, after 
the deionized water will remove the wash, then dried by 
nitrogen reserve.  
2.2 Catalyst preparation 
First, the heater heating the concentration of 100 ~ 800 ppm of 
palladium chloride (PdCl2) solution, and bath with magnetic 
stirring evenly, adjust the pH = 1.6 ~ 1.8, so that the 
temperature was maintained at 80 ° C. And carried into the 
PdCl2 bath replacement reaction, the reaction time is about 1 
~ 10 min. Complete replacement reaction 
2.3 Chemical vapor deposition synthesis of carbon 
nano-helical coil 
Completion of the preparation of metal catalyst into the 
silica substrate tube, and pushed to the central reactor tube, 
and then close the tube, and then open the exhaust pump for 
vacuum process, so that the quartz tube reached 9 × 10-2 torr 
of vacuum. 
When the quartz tube reached 9 × 10-2 torr vacuum, it 
begins to pass into the argon and hydrogen flow rate was 100 
sccm and 10 sccm, and then shutting off the exhaust pump, 
and then pass into the activation of protective gas and the gas, 
so that the tube back to 1 atm pressure. 
Open the furnace heater source, when the temperature 
reaches the set value, the start through the hydrogen 
pre-treatment operations, the range of hydrogen (20 sccm) 10 
min, followed through into the acetylene carbon source gas (5 
sccm) 20 min, in order to grow carbon nano-carbon materials 
and nano-helical coil. 
When the process reaches the set time, the acetylene and 
hydrogen gas supply cut off and the controller cooling quartz 
tube heating, cooling period is required to gain access to the 
protection gas argon (100 sccm), to avoid unnecessary high 
temperature reaction tube to be heated to room temperature 
when the specimen can be removed and may use instruments 
to detect and analyze. 
 
Results and Discussion 
 
3.1 Morphologies and structures  
Fig.1. show the typical SEM images of carbon 
nanofibers/CNCs that were grown on stainless steel webs, 
which were displacement with Pd solution with molarities of 0 
- 800 ppm. As shown in Fig. 1(a), carbon nanocoils are  not 
found on the stainless steel webs, because without Pd particles. 
However, those with Pd particles created a higher yield of 
carbon nanocoils, as shown in Fig. 1(b) - (d). Fig. 1(d) show 
the high-yield of CNCs. 
From the previous section, field emission characteristics 
of CNCs were better when the bath concentration of 800 ppm.  
therefore, this study further increase the palladium catalyst 
replacement time, time was 1 min, 3 min, 5 min, 10 min, 
replaced by analysis and comparison of different time analysis 
of palladium-plated metal catalyst particle shape and density, 
 
Fig. 3. TEM Image of CNCs/CNFs. 
 
 
Fig. 4. 3min to 800ppm concentration of the growth of CNCs PdCl2 
replacement for the cathode, for different spacing between the field 
emission current density - electric field curve (JE curve): (a) 3 mm; 
(b) 5 mm; (c) 6.5 mm 
 
  
Fig. 5. 3min to 800ppm concentration of the growth of CNCs PdCl2 
replacement for the cathode, the distance between the field emission 
of different fluorescent Figure: (a) 3 mm; (b) 5 mm; (c) 6.5 mm 
Acknowledgments 
 
(a) (b)
  
 
Fig. 1 The schematic diagram of our field emitter 
production steps. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Schematic diagram of our field emission bulb 
 
Results and Discussion 
 
3.1 Surface morphology of the samples 
 
Figure 3(a) shows the TEM photograph of the 
Poly(Styrene-co-NipAAm)/Pd. Fig.3(b) shows the nano 
composite of 0.2 wt.% MWNTs and 300 ppm 
Poly(Styrene-co-NipAAm)/Pd. It reveals that the MWNTs and 
the Poly(Styrene-co-NipAAm)/pd form a uniform 
nano-composite solutions. 
  
Fig.3  TEM images of (a) Poly(Styrene-co-NipAAm)pd. 
(b)Nano-composite of the 
Poly(Styrene-co-NipAAm)pd/MWNTs. The 
MWNTs and Poly(Styrene-co-NipAAm)pd are 0.2 
wt.% and 300 ppm, respectively. 
CNTs of various concentrations were dispersed with the 
same surfactant, TX-100, at 1000 ppm, and were dip-coated 
onto the wire substrates. The morphology of CNT-coated 
surface was observed with SEM, as shown in Fig. 4. The 
density of exposed CNTs increases clearly with the 
concentration increase of CNTs in the solution. Figure 5 
showed the SEM of CNTs/Ni-P nano-compositing plating 
layer where we can observe that MWNTs are uniformly 
embedded in the Ni-P film and the exposed MWNTs are well 
revealed. It shows the MWNTs having good adhesion with the  
substrates. The concentration of MWNTs and 
Poly(Styreen-co-NipAAm)/pd are 0.2wt ％  and 300ppm, 
respectively. We mixed them in the solution and then dipped 
the substrates 1-2 times into it for 5min. The substrate was 
then heated to dry in 90℃ oven. Electroless plating of Ni-P 
film was conducted for 3min to embed the MWNTs on the 
Ni-P layer. The pH value of the bath was 5.0 ± 0.1, and the 
plating temperature was controlled in the range of 50 ± 1°C.  
 
  
Fig 4.The SEM surface morphology images of using the 
same surfactant TX-100 by dipped coating (a) CNT 
0.2 wt% (b) 2 wt% (as deposited) in the top view. 
After taping, the top view (c) CNT 0.2wt% (d) 
2wt%. The side view (e) CNT0.2wt% (f) 2wt%. 
  
Conclusion 
We can fabricate a non-mercury, high efficiency and green 
field emission lamps using carbon nano-materials such as 
carbon nanotubes as cathode field emitters. Now its light 
illumination can reach 52lm/W in maximum, but as the time it 
decline because of the phosphor aging. In the future, we will 
improve the heat and conducted problem of the phosphor 
continuously. 
References 
 
[1] Q. H. Wang, A. A. Setlur, J. M. Lauerhaas, J. Y. Dai, E. W. 
Seelig, and R. P. H. Chang, Appl. Phys. Lett., 72, 
2912 ,1998. 
[2] H. Murakami, M. Hirakawa, C. Tanaka, and H. Yamakawa, 
“”Appl. Phys. Lett., 76,1776 ,2000 
[3] J. Hahn, S. M. Jung, H. Y. Jung, S. B. Heo, J. H. Shin, and 
J. S. Suh, Appl. Phys.Lett., 88, 113101 ,2006. 
[4] Bonard, J. M., Stockli, T., Noury, O., and Chatelain, A., 
“Field Emission from Cylindrical Carbon Nanotube 
Cathodes: Possibilities for Lminescent Tubes,” Applied 
Physics Letters, Vol. 78, No. 18, pp. 2775-2777, 2001. 
[5] Huang, J. X., Chen, J., Deng, S. Z., She, J. C., and Xu, N. 
S., “Field-Emission Fluorescent Lamp Using Carbon 
Nanotubes on a Wire-Type Cold Cathode and a 
Reflecting Anode,” Journal of Vacuum Science and 
Technology B, Vol. 26, No. 5, pp.1700-1704, 2008. 
[6] Fu, W., Liu, P., Tang, J., Liu, L., and Fan, S., “Spherical 
Field Emission Cathode Based on Carbon Nanotube Paste 
and Its Application in Luminescent Bulbs,” Journal of 
Vacuum Science and Technology B, Vol. 26, No. 4, pp. 
1404-1406, 2008. 
[7] Holt, T. A., Young, A. J., Elsayed, M. A., Walter, J. W., 
Neuber, A. A., and Kristiansen, M., “Images From the 
Development of a High-Power Microwave System, ” 
Plasma Science, Vol. 36, No. 4, pp. 1414-1415, 2008. 
[8] Edison. T. A., USA Patent No. 223898. 
[9] Ju C.P, Lee K.J., Wu H.D., Chen C.I., Carbon 1994; 32(5): 
971-977. 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：劉益銘 計畫編號：99-2622-E-606-004-CC3 
計畫名稱：以熱裂解化學氣相沈積法製作碳奈米螺旋線圈場發射陰極燈絲 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0% 
該計畫之成果除
已發表成國際研
討會論文3篇及國
內化工年會論文
一篇之外，目前已
陸續整理程期刊
論文發表中。 
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 4 2 200% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 2 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 1 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 2 100%  
博士生 1 0 50%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100% 
相關結果已整理
一篇期刊論文並
投稿國外期刊。 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 1 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
