In order to resolve this dilemma, a public policy analytic model is developed in this paper by using 
Mitchell’s theory as the conceptual framework. Mitchell et al. [18] proposed a theory of stakeholder 
identification and salience which intended to generate a typology of stakeholders from three relationship 
attributes: power, legitimacy, and urgency. The model proposed in this paper is involved a two-stage and 
two-layer analytic procedure. The balance of the paper is arranged as follows. After this introduction, the 
paper undertakes a literature review of stakeholder concepts and models, and provides illustrations of 
stakeholder management in the public sector. An analytic framework is then presented to demonstrate 
how the public policy analytic model was developed. 
2   Concepts and Models of Stakeholder Management 
Since Freeman [12] published his landmark book in 1984, Strategic Management: A Stakeholder 
Approach, the concept of “stakeholders” has become embedded in management scholarship and in 
managers’ thinking. Hence, for more than a decade the stakeholder approach to understanding the firm in 
its environment has been a powerful heuristic device, intended to broaden management’s vision of its 
roles and responsibilities beyond the profit maximization function to include interests and claims of non-
stockholding groups [18]. There is not much disagreement on what kind of entity can be a stakeholder. 
Persons, groups, neighborhoods, organizations, institutions, societies, and even the natural environment 
are generally thought to qualify as actual or potential stakeholders [18]. Freeman’s definition stakeholder 
is this: “A stakeholder in an organization is any group or individual who can affect or is affected by the 
achievement of the organization’s objectives” [12]. Thompson, Wartick, and Smith define stakeholders 
as groups “in relationship with an organization” [24]. Windsor [26] correctly points out that stakeholder 
theorists differ considerably on whether they take a broad or narrow view of a firm's stakeholder universe. 
Hill and Jones [13] speak of stakeholders as contractors or participants in exchange relationships. 
A review of the literature of the past decade reveals three major models for delivering stakeholder 
management: (i) the conceptual model; (ii) the social–network model; and (iii) the cause–effect model. 
Each of these is discussed below. 
2.1   The Conceptual Model 
This model attempts to develop a conceptual framework to deliver stakeholder management. For example, 
Donaldson and Preston [10] present the three aspects of stakeholder theory—descriptive/empirical, 
instrumental, and normative— found in the literature and clarify the critical differences among them. 
Descriptive/empirical theory is used to describe, and sometimes to explain, specific-corporate 
characteristics and behaviors. For example, stakeholder theory has been used to describe the nature of the 
firm [2], and the way managers think about managing [3]. Instrumental theory, in conjunction with 
descriptive/empirical data where available, is used to identify the connections, or lack of connections, 
between stakeholder management and the achievement of traditional corporate objectives (e.g., 
profitability, growth). Normative theory is used to interpret the function of the corporation, including the 
identification of moral or philosophical guidelines for the operation and management of corporations.  
Mitchell et al. [18] proposed a theory of stakeholder identification and salience based on stakeholders 
possessing one or more of three relationship attributes: power, legitimacy, and urgency. In this study, 
Mitchell et al. [18] lay out the stakeholder types that emerge from various combinations of the attributes: 
power, legitimacy, and urgency. Logically and conceptually, seven types are examined—three possessing 
only one attribute, three possessing two attributes, and one possessing all three attributes. As Figure 1 
illustrates, latent stakeholders are those possessing only one of the three attributes, and include dormant, 
discretionary, and demanding stakeholders. Expectant stakeholders are those possessing two attributes, 
and include dominant, dependent, and dangerous stakeholders. Definitive stakeholders are those 
possessing all three attributes. Finally, individuals or entities possessing none of the attributes are non-
stakeholders or potential stakeholders. 
 
 
 
2.4   Summary of the literature 
According to the past literature reviewed above, it is found that the term stakeholder has assumed a 
prominent place in public and non-profit management theory and practice in the last 20 years, and more 
especially so in the last decade [5]. As Bryson [4] acknowledges, attention to stakeholders is important 
throughout any strategic management process because “success” for public organizations depends on 
satisfying key stakeholders according to their definition of what is valuable. Similarity, as Rainey argues, 
‘Public agencies are born of and live by satisfying interests that are sufficiently influential to maintain the 
agencies’ political legitimacy and the resources that come with it’ [22]. If key stakeholders are not 
satisfied, at least minimally, according to their criteria for satisfaction, the normal expectation should be 
that something will change — for example, budgets will be cut, elected or appointed officials will lose 
their job, new initiatives will be undermined, and so on [5]. However, until relatively recently the 
question of what the public sector added for the benefit of the variety of stakeholders was largely ignored 
[11]. Consequently, Bryson [5], citing the work of Nutt [20], explains that failure to attend carefully to 
stakeholder interests and information can easily lead to disaster. More specifically, there is still a paucity 
of research that clearly articulates how to systematically identify and analyse stakeholders [5], or how to 
manage the various complex and often competing stakeholder relationships [17]. Hillman and Keim [14] 
also suggest that the “processes by which stakeholder relations are managed and the balancing of diverse 
demands of stakeholder groups are ripe areas for further inquiry”. 
3 The Development of A Public Policy Analytic Model 
The present study used the theory of stakeholder identification and salience which was proposed by 
Mitchell et al. [18] to develop a public policy analytic model. This model employs a two-stage and two-
layer analytic procedure. The framework of the model is shown in Figure 2. The first layer is the main 
part of the model which contains stage 1 and stage 2. The second layer is the auxiliary part of the model. 
The details of each stage/layer are described as follows.  
3.1  Stage 1 of the main layer 
In the first stage of layer 1, the stakeholder attitudes will be investigated. Mitchell et al. [18] proposed 
that stakeholders possess some combination of three critical attributes: power, legitimacy, and urgency. 
Most current definitions of power derive, at least in part, from the early Weberian idea that power is “the 
probability that one actor within a social relationship would be in a position to carry out his own will 
despite resistance” [25]. Weber’s [25] proposal that legitimacy and power are distinct attributes that can 
combine to create authority (defined by Weber as the legitimate use of power) but that can exist 
independently as well. An entity may have legitimate standing in society, or it may have a legitimate 
claim on the firm, but unless it has either power to enforce its will in the relationship or a perception that 
its claim is urgent, it will not achieve salience for the firm’s managers [18]. At last, Mitchell et al. [18] 
argue that urgency is based on the following two attributes: (i) time sensitivity—the degree to which 
managerial delay in attending to the claim or relationship is unacceptable to the stakeholder, and (ii) 
criticality—the importance of the claim or the relationship to the stakeholder. They define urgency as the 
degree to which stakeholder claims call for immediate attention.  
3.2   Stage 2 of the main layer 
In the second stage of layer 1, the stakeholder salience will be investigated. Mitchell et al. [18] predict 
that the salience of a particular stakeholder to the firm’s management is low if only one attribute is 
present (called latent stakeholder), moderate if two attributes are present (called expectant stakeholder), 
and high if all three attributes are present (called definitive stakeholder). Latent stakeholders can increase 
their salience to managers and move into the “expectant stakeholder” category by acquiring just one of 
the missing attributes. If the stakeholder is particularly clever, for example, at coalition building, political 
action, or social construction of reality, that stakeholder can move into the “definitive stakeholder” 
stakeholder salience will be high where all three of the stakeholder attributes—power, legitimacy, and 
urgency—are perceived by managers to be present. 
4   Conclusions 
The public policy analytic model proposed in this paper is a two-stage two layer analytic procedure. This 
model developed by using a theory of stakeholder identification and salience of Mitchell et al. [18]. The 
analytic model could help public managers to identify multiple stakeholders of the public police, and to 
understand their attitudes, concern issues, and conflict points. Then, it could further balance the diverse 
demands of stakeholder groups on same public policy. This paper argues that careful use of stakeholder 
analyses can help frame issues that are solvable in ways that are technically feasible and politically 
acceptable and that advance the common good.  
Some questions are worthy of further exploration. First, an empirical case study is suggested to 
investigate how the public policy analytic model is implemented. Secondly, it would be interesting to 
examine the use of the analytic model in different public policy. These could include economy, people’s 
livelihood, and national defense. Finally, it is also suggested to develop the strategy to meet multiple 
stakeholders needs and expectations.  
References 
1. Bendheim, C., Graves, S.: Determining Best Practice in Corporate Stakeholder Relations Using Date 
Envelopment an Industry Level Study. Business and Society, Vol. 37. (1998) 306-339 
2. Brenner, S. N., Cochran, P.: The Stakeholder Theory of the Firm: Implications for Business and Society Theory 
and Research. Paper Presented at the Annual Meeting of the International Association for Business and Society, 
Sundancd. UT. (1991) 
3. Brenner, S. N., Molander, E. A.: Is the Ethics of Business Changing?. Harvard Business Review, Vol. 58, No. 1. 
(1977) 54-65 
4. Bryson, J.: Strategic Planning for Public and Nonprofit Organizations., CA：Josscy-Bass, San Francisco (1995) 
5. Bryson, J.: What to Do When Stakeholder Matter. Public Management Review, Vol. 6. (2004) 21-45 
6. Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H., Chang H. C.: ERA Model: A Customer-Orientated Organizational Change Model for the 
Public Service. Total Quality Management & Business Excellence, Vol. 17, No. 10. (2006) 1301-1322 
7. Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H., Chang, H. C.: An Empirical Analysis of Customer-Oriented Service Activities in the 
Taiwanese Public Sector. Total Quality Management & Business Excellence, Vol. 16, No. 7. (2005) 887-901 
8. Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H., Yang, S. J., Chang, H. C.: A Customer-Oriented Service-Enhancement System (COSES) 
for the Public Sector. Managing Service Quality, Vol. 14, No. 5. (2004) 414-425 
9. Cyert, R. M., March, J. G.: The Behavioral Theory of the Firm. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall (1963) 
10. Donaldson, T., Preston, L. E.: The Stakeholder Theory of the Corporation: Concepts, Evidence, and Implications. 
Academy of Management Review, Vol. 20. (1995) 65-91 
11. Ferlie, E., Hartley, J., Martin, S.: Changing Public Service Organizations: Current Perspectives and Future 
Prospects. British Journal of Management, Special Issue, Vol. 14. (2003) S1-S14 
12. Freeman, R. E.: Strategic Management: A Stakeholder Approach. Pitman, Boston (1984) 
13. Hill, C. W. L., Jones, T. M.: Shareholder Value, Stakeholder Management, and Social Issues: What’s the Bottom 
Line?. Strategic Management Journal, Vol. 22. (1992) 125-139 
14. Hillman, A. J., Keim, G. D.: Board Composition and Stakeholder Performance: Do Stakeholder Directors Make a 
Difference?. Business and Society, Vol. 40, No. 3. (2001) 295-314 
15. Kaplan, R., Norton, D.: The Balanced Scorecard. MA: Harvard Business School Press, Boston (1996) 
16. Legnick-Hall CA.: Customer Contributions to Quality: A Different View of the Customer-Oriented Firm. 
Academy of Management Review, Vol. 21. (1996) 791-824 
17. McAdam, R., Hazlett, S. A., Casey, C.: Performance Management in the UK Public Sector: Addressing Multiple 
Stakeholder Complexity. International Journal of Public Sector Management, Vol. 18, No.3. (2005) 256-273 
18. Mitchell, R. K., Agle, B. R., Wood, D. J.: Toward a Theory of Stakeholder Identification and Salience: Defining 
the Principle of Who and What Really Counts. The Academy of Management Review, Vol. 22. (1997) 853-886 
19. Moore, M.: Creating Public Value, Cambridge. MA: Harvard University Press (1995) 
20. Nutt, P.: Why Decisions Fail: Avoiding the Blunders and Traps That Lead to Debacles. CA: Berrett-Koehler 
Publishers, San Francisco (2002) 
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-412-001 
計畫名稱 從服務系統設計與管理的觀點探討政府機關顧客導向服務品質之提升(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
于長禧，育達商業技術學院企業管理系助理教授 
會議時間地點 95年 9月 7日~9日，日本東京 
會議名稱 International Symposium on Quality Function Deployment (ISQFD’06-Tokyo)
發表論文題目 A Study of Integrating Kano and QFD Model on Translating Customer Needs into Service-System Design 
 
一、參加會議經過 
9/7 12:00-17:00 完成研討會報到手續並領取研討會資料；聆聽專題演講，並與來自
各國的學者進行學術交流。 
9/8 09:00-12:00 參加開幕儀式，並聽取來自品質管理領域之著名學者 Yoji Akao與
Akitoshi Ito之專題演講，討論主題為─Management Based on Quality 
Utilizing QFD，並與來自各國的學者進行交流交流。 
 13:00-17:00 參與研討會之研討議題，聽取國際學者之論文發表，並與來自各國
的學者進行學術交流。 
9/9 09:00-15:00 參與研討議題，並聽取國際學者之論文發表，並與來自各國的學者
進行交流。 
 15:30-16:10 在第 Session 4場次: Interaction with other method 2(Taguchi method 
& Kano model)針對本研究論文進行口頭報告，並與國際學者進行
互動交流，進一步發現相關研究的未來趨勢與機會，作為後續研究
之議題。 
 
 
 
 3
 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. Conference Program, ISQFD’06-Tokyo Program 
內容為 2006國際品質機展開研討會之會議議程。 
2. 2006國際品質機展開研討會論文集光碟片 
內容為參與本次會議發表之所有之論文。 
 
 
decisions. This not only wastes resources but also leaves questions towards the effectiveness of customer 
satisfaction activities. 
The present authors argue that in order to have a successful service design, a systematic approach is 
required. The functions of the system approach is to link with a comprehensive set of customer needs, the 
translation of these needs into various service attributes, and the development of a properly designed 
service process [6, 25]. To this purpose, a simple and effective process model for translating the customer 
needs into the service-system design is a crucial issue for service organizations. In this paper, an integrated 
approach based on the Kano’s model and QFD is proposed to help service enterprises understand the 
nature of the VOC (voice of customer) and make service-system design. Quality function deployment 
(QFD) is a powerful and structured tool for this purpose [19]. Total and effective customer satisfaction is 
the ultimate goal of QFD. The Kano model can be used to help differentiate among customer requirements 
and to obtain an imaginative understanding of customer needs [13]. 
This paper will first review the relevant literature on the topics of Kano and QFD’s fundamental 
structure and concepts. An “integrated framework” will then be proposed to integrate Kano model and 
QFD methods. 
 
2. Kano’s model 
 
Professor Kano proposes a model, which helps us ascertain the extent to which a given set of functions 
and features of a product satisfies customers’ wants and needs [17]. By doing so, the model therefore helps 
us evaluate the efficacy of an existing product to satisfy customer wants or develop a product concept that 
will ensure customer satisfaction. 
Kano suggests that in product planning, a firm should first identify functions and features that 
customers want in a product. It should then develop the product incorporating those functions and features 
so that the product caters to customer values at the maximum [4]. In his model (see Figure 1), Kano [16] 
distinguishes between five-type of product requirement which influence customer satisfaction in different 
ways when met. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. The Kano model 
 
2.1. Must-be requirements 
 
The must-be requirements are basic criteria of a product. If these requirements are not fulfilled, the 
customer will be extremely dissatisfied. For example, when a customer wants to buy a car, “no scratches” 
may be such an attribute [26]. 
 
Customer satisfaction
Customer dissatisfied 
Requirement fulfilled Requirement not fulfilled 
Must-be 
reverse 
indifferent
one-dimensional
attractive 
In order to translate the voice of the customer into the process of developing products and services, a 
matrix format is used. The first matrix, called the House of Quality (HOQ), is a product-planning matrix 
used to depict customer requirements, technical measures, target values, and competitive analyses [13]. An 
HOQ is made up of several parts as discussed below [29]. 
As Figure 2 shows, the left room of an HOQ lists the customer needs or requirements called the 
“Whats”. “Whats” are phrases that customers use to describe their needs. The needs are translated into 
corresponding “Hows” as shown in the upper room below the roof. The function of the “Hows” is to 
translate the “Whats” into terms that are measurable. After the “Whats” and the “Hows” have been 
identified, the next step is to specify their relationships in the body or correlation matrix of the HOQ. The 
correlation matrix shows the extent to which each “How” affects each “What”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. The house of quality 
 
Other rooms of a basic HOQ include the roof which maps out the interdependencies between pairs of 
“Hows”. The priorities assigned to the customer needs and the competitive assessments are recorded in the 
two rooms on the right side of the house.  
The fundamental idea behind QFD is to translate the VOC (the voices of the customers; customer 
requirements) into the final product and/or service quality to assure customer satisfaction [1]. QFD has 
been widely used as a tool to develop new products [8]. It has been adopted extensively for analysis and 
design in the fields of education quality, service quality, software development and marketing planning 
[12, 15, 21, 31]. In other words, it can help companies make the key trade-offs between what the customer 
wants and what the company can afford to build. 
However, there are also the following limitations as reported by Bouchereau and Rowlands [5] and 
Shen et al. [26]: (1) there can be ambiguity in the voice of the customer; (2) there is the need to input and 
analyze large amounts of subjective data; (3) the manual input of customer survey information into the 
HOQ is time consuming and difficult; (4) the HOQ can become large and complex; (5) setting target 
values in the HOQ is imprecise; (6) strengths between relationships are sometimes ill-defined; (7) QFD 
analysis often stops after the initial HOQ, and the links between the four phases are not formed; (8) QFD 
is only qualitative; and (9) QFD assumes that the relationship between customer satisfaction and 
product/attribute performance is linear.  
In addition, in a physical product context encountered in manufacturing, QFD provides a chain-like 
interface between customer needs, engineering or design characteristics, parts characteristics, key process 
operations, and production requirements. In a service context, many of the physical goods attributes no 
 
 
Correlation between the 
 “Whats” and the “Hows” 
Design requirement or “Hows” 
Priorities assigned to design requirements 
 
 
 
Customer 
needs or 
“Whats” 
 
 
 
Priority 
assigned 
to 
customer 
needs 
Correlation between 
“Hows”
 
 
 
Competitive 
assessment 
include focus groups, interview and survey. Next is the gathering of customer satisfaction data. This is 
commonly achieved through surveys where customers are asked to rate their perception of each service 
attribute. Concurrently with the customer requirements survey, customers’ opinions regarding the 
functional and dysfunctional aspects of the attributes are assessed also for preparing to conduct Kano 
model analysis. Additionally, customers are asked to assign and prioritize the level of importance of each 
attribute. 
 
4.2. Calculate the customer satisfaction score 
 
After acquisition of customer requirements, customer satisfaction is then calculated by multiplying the 
level of importance with the gap between the highest perceived service and the actual perceived service. 
General speaking, the most necessary to improve for service enterprises are that service attributes 
involving lower customer satisfaction and higher level of importance. The present authors therefore argue 
the customer satisfaction should be calculated by multiplying the level of importance with the gap between 
the highest perceived service and the actual perceived service. For example, if the measurement of 
perceived service was used with the 5-point likert scale, then the value of highest perceived service equals 
5. Suppose the value of the actual perceived service is 1, the customer satisfaction will be calculated by 
multiplying the level of importance with 4 (the value of highest perceived service subtract the actual 
perceived service). The rationale here is that the larger the gap (i.e. lower the actual perceived service) and 
higher the level of importance, the higher should be the priority for improvement. 
 
4.3. Kano model analysis 
 
Each identified customer requirement will be analysed on the basis of Kano’s model. This information 
is gathered via a Kano questionnaire that consists of pairs of one positive and one negative question in the 
stage of acquisition of customer requirements. Then, the service attributes are categorized as must-be, 
one-dimensional, attractive, indifferent, questionable, or reverse by Kano model analysis. Integration of 
the Kano’s model involves first determining the appropriate Kano category for each attribute. Then, 
multiplier values of “3”, “2”, and “1” are assigned to the attractive, one-dimensional, and must-be 
categories, respectively. The idea is to magnify the importance of higher-return attributes in increasing 
overall customer satisfaction. Finally, the relationship between customer satisfaction and attribute type (i.e. 
must-be, performance, exciting) needs to be determined also. This is where Kano’s model is useful to 
QFD. 
 
4.4. Calculate adjusted importance into HOQ 
 
In the traditional HOQ, the importance of each “How” is influenced by the importance of each “What”. 
The introduction of the Kano categories with multipliers “3”, “2”, or “1” change the importance scores for 
the effected “Hows”. The adjusted importance is calculated by multiplying the customer satisfaction score 
with the value of Kano category (attractive, one-dimensional, and must-be). The integrated approach uses 
the adjusted importance as a substitute for the importance of the “Whats”. This approach can help 
managers to arrange the priority of service attributes for improvement in service enterprises. 
 
5. Conclusions and future research 
 
Customer satisfaction has received widespread recognition and it is also one of the most important 
issues for a service enterprise. However, most enterprises have difficulty in translating customer needs into 
service system design. In this paper, an integrated approach based on the Kano’s model and QFD is 
proposed to help service enterprises understand the nature of the VOC and make effective service-system 
design. The voice of the customer is regarded as the cornerstone of the QFD process and Kano’s model 
helps us capture this voice. The benefits of the proposed integrated approach include: (1) to bridge the gap 
