 2 
de-blocking filtering, and entropy coding, which occupy 
most of the computation complexity and attract much 
researching interest in the past for supporting high video 
resolution up to high definition (HD) video with low 
hardware cost and low power consumption. However, these 
researches try to solve the encountered problems from the 
component point of view instead of systematic point of view, 
which might cause that the advantages of the proposed 
solutions for the critical video coding components are not 
feasible when integrating into a video coding system.  
Hence, it is necessary to consider the design exploration 
from systematic point of view before making the best design 
trade-off to optimize a video coding system for high 
performance, low hardware cost and low power 
consumption. 
In addition, the compressed multimedia data nowadays 
are transmitted through heterogeneous networks. This 
causes a new issue that users may face video data 
compressed in different video coding standards. To decode 
those data, a versatile decoder that supports 
multiple-standard video decoding is necessary. This goal 
can be easily achieved in a programmable system such as 
the Personal Computer (PC) that has abundant resource by 
installing several video coding programs. However, the 
hand-held video devices have limited hardware and 
software resources, which makes the above solution 
becomes impractical. In addition, the low power design 
consideration is of great importance for hand-held devices 
in portable video coding applications. Therefore, a 
dedicated video decoding engine with configurable 
parameters to support different video coding standards 
could be a good solution for achieving the design goals of 
high performance, low hardware cost, and low power 
consumption, which is also the topic of this paper.    
On realizing the popular video decoders like JPEG, 
MPEG, and H.264, there have been some video decoders 
[1-5] proposed in the past years, which shows that dedicated 
hardware is a good solution to low-power implementation 
for high definition (HD) video applications. One solution to 
low power video decoders is to reduce the clock rate of 
external memory access for reducing the major power 
consumption, especially for HD video decoding. The design 
[4] used single external memory with clock rate up to 
200MHz, which suffers from high power consumption. The 
designs [1-3, 5] used dual external memories to reduce the 
clock rate of memory access (100MHz~170MHz), which 
suffers from high IC package cost.  
In this paper we propose a low cost, low power 
multi-standard video decoder supporting JPEG, 
MPEG-1/2/4, and H.264 for HD video applications. We 
optimize the proposed design from systematic point of view 
to achieve good performance in terms of high hardware 
efficiency, low hardware cost and low power consumption. 
First, we optimize the proposed design through reducing 
memory bandwidth by increasing both data reuse amount 
and burst length of memory access as well as eliminating 
cycle overhead in data access for supporting HD video 
decoding with single AHB-based SDR memory. In addition, 
we optimize the functional blocks in the proposed design 
for carrying out computation in different video standards 
with the same hardware to reduce hardware complexity. 
Compared to the state-of-the-art multi-standard video 
decoder [5] fabricated by 0.13um CMOS technology, the 
proposed design can reduce 72% in gate-count and 87% in 
power consumption for real-time decoding HD1080 video. 
  
2. PROPOSED MULTI-STANDARD VIDEO DECODER 
Figure 1 shows the block diagram of the proposed 
multi-standard video decoder. The proposed design consists 
of six key modules, including Bit-Stream Analyzer (BSA), 
Hybrid Texture Decoder (HTD), Hybrid Pixel Compensator 
 4 
 
Figure 3: Proposed shared adder-based filter structure. 
 
By observing a fact that most of the operations used in 
the texture coding, intra prediction, interpolation in inter 
prediction, and in-loop filtering can be viewed as filtering 
operations with fixed coefficients, we propose a shared 
adder-based filter structure to realize all the data-paths of 
4x4/8x8 IDCT in HTD, intra prediction and inter prediction 
in HPC, and 1-D filter in ILF using only additions and shift 
operations. We first generate the common terms in realizing 
these operations and then use parallel adder trees to 
compute the output values for the filters. In this way, we can 
share the common intermediate results to reduce hardware 
complexity. Using the shared adder-based filter structure 
contributes 49%, 56%, 64%, and 58% of complexity 
reduction in 4x4/8x8 IDCT, intra prediction, inter 
prediction, and 1-D ILF filter, respectively. Figure 3 shows 
the shared adder-based filter structure we use to reduce the 
hardware cost of the proposed design.  
2.1.3   Reusable Data Manager 
In the video decoding process, some decoded data and 
information need to be temporarily stored for the later 
decoding. For example, pixels in the left and upper adjacent 
MBs are used for the filtering in intra prediction and in-loop 
filter. Some existing designs [1, 4] stored these data in the 
internal memory. However, the storage size required for 
storing these reusable data extensively increases when 
decoding the high resolution videos. In addition, the channel 
information such as frame sizes, quantization tables, and 
other global parameters also need to be kept when switching 
to different channels for multi-channel applications. This 
implies that the increase of cost and power consumption 
cannot be prevented if we store all of these data in on-chip 
SRAM. To reduce internal memory, the intermediate data 
for future decoding are buffered in external memory through 
a DMA-like Reusable Data Manager (RDM) if these data 
are not used immediately. 
  
2.2   Low Memory Bandwidth Design Techniques  
The bandwidth of frame memory access dominates the 
performance of a video decoder. Minimizing memory 
bandwidth is of great significance in reducing power 
consumption since most of the power in pixel compensation 
is consumed by memory access. We propose two techniques, 
i.e. hybrid block access with cache and dual block access 
with same MV as shown in Figure 4, to minimize memory 
bandwidth for doing the pixel compensation that is the most 
bandwidth consuming operation in video decoding.  
2.2.1   Hybrid Block Access 
The hybrid block access technique reuses the overlapped 
data resided at both horizontal and vertical adjacent blocks 
with cache when supporting the variable block size pixel 
compensation in H.264. The proposed design supports the 
access up to the 16x8 block mode with fractional 
interpolation. For reusing the reference data overlapped 
between the vertical adjacent blocks in the same MB, a 
21x5 bytes local buffer is used to cache the last 5 rows of 
upper blocks. The proposed hybrid block access contributes 
 6 
next non-continuous data are located at either the row of 
present accessing or the row belongs to a different memory 
bank.  
 
Figure 5: Address bus organization and memory addressing. 
 
With the addresses of impending burst access operation, 
two techniques are proposed for achieving low memory 
access latency as shown in Figure 6. One is Burst 
Terminates Burst (BTB) for eliminating the overhead cycles 
between two consecutive burst access operations by 
truncating the current burst with a subsequent bust. The 
other is Anticipative Row Activation (ARA) to activate the 
row of memory bank for the impending access operation in 
advance, which eliminates the overhead cycles of row 
activation in SDR memory. Combining these two techniques 
together contributes about 41% and 38% reduction of 
memory bandwidth for MPEG-4 and H.264 video decoding, 
respectively.  
 
Figure 6: Proposed low memory latency access techniques. 
 
3. DESIGN IMPLEMENTATION  
In a project development, the effective communication 
between team members is a very important issue to improve 
the quality and efficiency of the project outcome. In this 
project we adopt the Concurrent Versions System (CVS) 
tool for file version control. By using CVS tool, we make 
the debugging progress smoother and easier. In this project, 
the proposed design can be delivered as IP format with the 
design documents including design specification, user guide 
and coding guidelines. The detail implementation of the 
proposed design is described in the following sub-sections.  
Figure 7: Design flow of the proposed multi-standard video 
decoder. 
 
 8 
the display memory of a 320x240 LCD for real-time 
display. 
 
Figure 8: Chip prototyping of the proposed design. 
 
4. PERFORMANCE COMPARISON  
Figure 9 shows the die photo and implementation results 
of the proposed multi-standard video decoder chip. The 
core size of the chip is 4.2x1.2mm2 using the TSMC 
0.13um 1P8M CMOS technology. The hardware cost of the 
chip consists of 252K gates and 4.9K bytes of SRAM. The 
power consumption is 71.1mW@120MHz/1V, 
7.9mW@20MHz/ 0.8V, 2.7mW@6MHz/0.7V for real-time 
HD1080, D1, and CIF video decoding, respectively. Table I 
shows the comparison of the proposed design with the 
state-of-the-art multi-standard and H.264 video decoders for 
both HD video [1, 2, 4, 5] and portable video [3]. From the 
comparison results, we conclude that the proposed design 
outperforms the multi-standard video decoder [5] in terms 
of 72% in gate-count and 87% in power consumption. 
Compared to the H.264 video decoders [2, 4], the proposed 
design owns 34% reduction in power consumption over the 
design [2], and 16% reduction in gate-count as well as 56% 
reduction in power consumption over the design [4]. 
Compared to the MPEG-2/H.264 video decoder [3] for 
mobile applications, the proposed design owns 17% 
reduction in gate-count. Moreover, it dissipates 7.9mW of 
power consumption that is lower than the 12.4mW reported 
in the design [3] for real-time H.264 decoding on D1 video, 
which shows its high feasibility for portable video in 
addition to HD video applications.  
 
5. CONCLUSION  
In this paper, a low cost, low power multi-standard video 
decoder supporting JPEG, MPEG-1/2/4, and H.264 for HD 
video applications is proposed. The proposed design is 
optimized through reducing memory bandwidth by 
increasing both data reuse amount and burst length of 
memory access. In addition, a low latency memory control 
scheme is used to eliminate cycle overhead in data access 
for supporting HD video decoding with single AHB-based 
SDR memory at 120MHz. By exploiting the low cost design 
techniques and hardware sharing between different 
standards, the proposed multi-standard video decoder 
implemented through a 0.13um CMOS technology 
consumes 71.1mW with the cost of 252K gates and 4.9KB 
internal memory for HD1080 video decoding. The 
comparison results listed in Table I show that the proposed 
design is more efficient than the existing video decoders 
targeted at HD1080 video coding applications.  
 
6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS  
The authors thank the National Science Council, the 
Ministry of Economic Affairs, and the National SoC 
Program of Taiwan for funding the research. We also thank 
Chip Implementation Center for supporting chip fabrication. 
 
7. REFERENCES  
[1] T. W. Chen, Y. W. Huang, T. C. Chen, Y. H. Chen, C. Y. Tsai, 
and L. G. Chen, “Architecture Design of H.264/AVC Decoder 
with Hybrid Task Pipelining for High Definition Videos,” Proc. 
ISCAS, vol. 3, pp. 2931-2934, May, 2005. 
 10 
 
TABLE I: Performance comparison of the proposed design with the existing video decoders. 
 
 
 
 
 
表 Y04 2 
 
 
(壹) 簡志達參加 ICME2007 發表論文之心得: 
 
本人感謝國科會補助經費，於九十六年七月一日前往中國大陸北京之北京國際會議中
心(Beijing International Convention Center)，參加 2007年國際多媒體與展示會議(ICME’ 
2007)研討會並發表論文。我們於九十六年七月一日抵達中國大陸北京國際會議中心
(Beijing International Convention Center)，隔日(七月二日)註冊後隨即開始參加研討會。
此次 ICME’2007 大會提供相當多之研討課程，在此簡述如下： 
(一) Tutorials: 本次大會總共安排七項子題之課程，包含 
(1) Multimedia Security Technologies for Digital Rights Management 
(2) Distributed Video Coding: An Overview and Roadmap 
(3) Extended linear and multi-linear methods for multimodal signal processing 
(4) MPEG Multimedia Standards: Evolution and Recent Developments 
(5) High-Dynamic Range Imaging 
(6) Human-Centered Multimedia 
(7) Multimedia Signal Processing on Personal Computers 
(二) Keynote Talk: 本次大會進行期間共安排了四場演講，本人皆有參與，題目為 
(1) Computer Vision in Medicine and Neuroscience: Image Guided Neurosurgery and 
Computational Neuroanatomy 
(2) Implementation Challenges for Advanced Multimedia Compression 
(3) Large-Scale Internet Search 
(4) Internet Video: The Next Big Thing 
(三) Demo sessions: 本次大會除一般之 Regular section 外，另安排了相兩場 Demo 
sessions展示多媒體相關之設計與應用，本人皆有參與 
(四) Panel: 本次大會進行期間共安排了兩場 Panel討論，題目為 
(1) Video over the Internet  
(2) Human Computer Interfaces in Multimedia Communication 
(五) Regular sessions: 本次大會包含多場次之 Lecture 及 Poster sessions，每天下午預計
各有一百八十篇論文同時進行發表，參加者可依自己之專長與興趣選擇相關場次之
論文聽講與討論，相當不錯。 
 
二、與會心得 
    本人所發表之論文：A Low Latency Memory Controller for Video Coding Systems 也於七
月四日下午以 Poster 方式發表，發表中有許多學者提出問題發問，反應良好。除發表論文
之外，本人也充份利用時間參與其他論文之研討，收獲良多。以下為本人主要參與研討之
論文： 
表 Y04 4 
(18) Nageswara Rao Gunupudi; SSBK Gupta Pallapothu, “Improved Intra Prediction for Efficient 
Packetization in H.264 with Multiple Slice Groups” 
(19) Ka-Ho Ng; Lai Man Po; Ka-Man Wong, “Search Pattern Switching for Motion Estimation using 
Rate of Error Descent” 
(20) Jong-Ho Kim; Byung-Gyu Kim; ChangSik Cho, “Distortion-based partial distortion search for 
fast motion estimation” 
(21) Heejun Shim; Kyungsu Kang; Chong-Min Kyung, “Search Area Selective Reuse Algorithm in 
Motion Estimation” 
(22) Nam-Joon Kim; Sarp Erturk; Hyuk-Jae Lee, “Two-Bit Transform Based Block Motion 
Estimation using Second Derivatives” 
(23) Yan Zheng; Shibao Zheng; Zhonghua Huang; Ziliang Zhao, “A time and storage optimized 
hardware design for Context-based Adaptive Binary Arithmetic decoding in H.264/AVC” 
(24) Wang Chao, “An Efficient VLSI Architecture for Lifting-Based Discrete Wavelet Transform” 
(25) Kong-Aik Lee; Woon Seng Gan, “On Delayless Architecture for the Normalized Subband 
Adaptive Filter” 
(26) Yanmei Qu; Yu Li; Yun He; ShunLiang Mei, “A Cost-effective VLSI Architecture of VLD for 
MPEG-2 and AVS” 
(27) Parth Malani; Ying Tan; Qinru Qiu, “Resource-aware high performance scheduling for 
embedded MPSoCs with the application of MPEG decoding” 
(28) Tsun Hsien Wang; Ching-Te Chiu, “Low Power Design of High Performance Memory Access 
Architecture for HDTV Decoder” 
 
三、建議 
本人非常感謝國科會此次補助參加 2007年國際多媒體與展示研討會並發表論文，
本人收獲良多，對於未來的研究方向有了新的想法。此次國科會的補助，對於有心進
行研究並積極參與國際會議的博士班學生有相當大的鼓勵與協助，再次謝謝國科會。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
參加本次大會攜回之主要資料為 
1. 2007 International Conference on Multimedia & Expo 論文集，以 CD-ROM 方式儲
存。 
2. 會議議程冊。 
 
 
(貳) 簡國安參加 ICME2007 發表論文之心得: 
 
一、參加會議經過 
