 I
中文摘要： 
     
本實驗室研究具有掌性分子之掌性團聯共聚物 --- 聚苯乙烯與聚左旋乳酸團聯共聚物 
(poly(styrene)-b-poly(L-lactide),PS-PLLA)，其掌性效應對自組裝結構之影響。在本研究中發
現此一掌性團聯共聚物於 PS 多量之體積分率下，將自組裝產生一新穎之三維有序奈米螺旋
結構。由穿透式電子顯微鏡之形態觀察顯示 PLLA 鏈段形成特殊之奈米螺旋體管柱微結
構，並且於聚苯乙烯主體內形成類似六角圓柱微結構之排組。而在外部(剪切力)或內部(結
晶效應)應力之作用下，可觀察到不同自組裝形態之螺旋結構。經由結晶行為於不同之侷限
環境下可得到結晶之奈米螺旋結構或結晶之柱狀結構，而再由退火可重回至奈米螺旋結
構，甚或是利用剪切力可到非結晶之柱狀結構。因此，此一奈米螺旋結構實質上是具有如
彈簧般之伸縮性質，而再經由 WAXD 以及 SAED 可以進一步了解在硬相侷限以及軟相侷限
時，結構內之分子非結晶與結晶行為。接著，若提高 PLLA 之體積分率，可觀察到由非掌
性之 PS 鏈段所形成之掌性螺旋管於 PLLA 之主體中，即殼核圓柱型奈米微結構。此殼核圓
柱型奈米微結構之形成是由於掌性效應趨使掌性分子於排列時產生扭轉與彎曲之作用力，
因而使得螺旋結構擰轉進而形成殼核圓柱型結構。而透過生物分解之方式移除 PLLA 鏈段
將可得到奈米中空管微結構，相信此一研究將可提供團聯共聚物於學術研究或科技應用上
一新的方向。 
 
關鍵詞：聚苯乙烯與聚左旋乳酸雙團聯共聚物，掌性，奈米螺旋結構，彈簧性質，核殼圓
柱型奈米微結構，奈米中空管 
 
Abstract: 
 
Chirality driven microphase-separated morphology with nanohelical sense such as PLLA 
nanohelices hexagonally packed in PS matrix was obtained from the self-assembly of chiral block 
copolymers (BCPs*), poly(styrene)-b-poly(L-lactide) with PS-rich fractions. Also, a variety of 
self-assembled nanohelices in chiral block copolymers was observed by applying internal and 
external stimuli (i.e., crystallization and shearing, respectively).The amorphous nanohelices in 
bulk are able to transfer into crystalline nanohelices and crystalline cylinders by crystallization or 
shearing. The crystallization-induced cylinders were found thermally reversible, and able to 
revert to original helices upon re-melting and annealing. As a result, the hexagonally packed 
nanohelical structure of the PLLA in the PS matrix of chiral PS-PLLA block copolymers appears 
as spring-like behavior in response to the applied stimulations.  
The crystallization of helical nanostructure has also been studied. Various crystalline 
PS-PLLA nanostructures were obtained by controlling the crystallization temperature of PLLA 
(Tc,PLLA) at which crystalline helices (PLLA crystallization directed by helical confined 
microdomain) and crystalline cylinders (phase transformation of helical nanostructure dictated by 
 III
Contents 
Abstract…………………………………………………………………………………………….I 
Contents..........................................................................................................................................III 
List of Tables...…………………………………………………………………………………...IV 
List of Figures……………………………………………………………………………………..V 
I. Introduction………………………………………………………………………….………..1 
II. Objectives……………………………………………………………………………...……..2 
III. Experimental Section…………………………………………………………………………3 
IV. Results and Discussion……………………………………………………………………….6 
1. Spring-like Nanohelical Structures……………………………………………………….6 
2. A Springlike Behavior of Chiral Block Copolymer with Helical Nanostructure Driven by 
Crystallization…………………………………………………………………………...12 
3. Composition Effect --- PLLA-rich PS-PLLA…………………………………………...29 
V. Conclusion…………………………………………………………………………………..36 
VI. References…………………………………………………………………………………...37 
計劃成果自評……………………………………………………………………………………39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 V
List of Figures 
 
Figure 1 DSC heating thermogram of PS280-PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34). The sample was first 
heating to 175oC and then quenched by a rate of 150oC/min to -50oC. The heating rate is 
10oC/min...........................................................................................................................................7 
Figure 2 DSC thermograms of (a) isothermal crystallization; (b) melting curves for 
PS280-PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) at different crystallization temperatures. On the basis of the 
reciprocal time of exothermic peak, the maximum crystallization rate is estimated at ca. 95oC. 
The melting point increases with increasing crystallization temperature………………………….7 
Figure 3 TEM micrographs of nanohelical morphologies in PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) bulk 
samples quenched from microphase-separated melt (165oC) then (a) crystallized at 80oC for 
120min; and (b) crystallized at 110oC for 120 
min....................................................................................................................................................8 
Figure 4 One-dimensional SAXS profiles for self-assembly of PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) 
with different geometries: a) non-crystallized  nanohelices; b) crystalline nanohelices under hard 
confinement; c) stretched nanohelices (i.e., crystalline cylinders) under soft confinement; d) 
stretched nanohelices (i.e., amorphous cylinders) after shearing………………………………….9 
Figure 5 TEM micrographs of nanohelical structures in PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) bulk 
samples after shearing at 180oC (above the m.p. of PLLA (~160oC) and Tg,PS (99.2oC)) by 
viewing (a) parallel, and (b) perpendicular to the shear axis. The inset is 2D SAXS pattern normal 
to the cylindrical axes…………………………………………………………………………….10 
Figure 6 TEM micrograph for shear-induced stretching of nanohelices (i.e., non-crystallized 
cylinders) of PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) bulk samples after annealing at 130oC for 60min…11 
Figure 7 TEM micrograph of shear-induced stretching nanohelices (i.e., amorphous cylinders) of 
PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) bulk samples after annealing at 130oC for 60min………………..11 
Figure 8 Spring-loaded polymers: The nanohelical structure of PLLA in PS matrix of chiral 
PS-PLLA BCPs displays springlike behavior in response to an applied stimulus. The 
self-assembled nanohelices are able to transform into cylinders by crystallization or shearing. 
This thermally reversible phase behavior may be used for manipulating switchable nanohelical 
structures………………………………………………………………………………………….12 
Figure 9 2D SAXS patterns of the orientated PS-PLLA quenched from ordered melt at 175°C 
obtained along a) z, b) x, and c) y directions. d) Azimuthal integration of the qy-qz plane. e) 3D 
simulated model for the hexagonally packed helical nanostructures with uniplanar orientation (i.e., 
edge-on hexagonal lattice and )0110( //xz) and simulated 2D SAXS patterns in x, y and z 
directions………………………………………………………………………………………….14 
Figure 10 a) TEM micrograph of the monograin of crystalline helices under hard 
confinement (Tc,PLLA= 90oC); b) the corresponding SAED pattern after slightly tilting; c) 
schematic illustration of the ED pattern of the PLLA crystals. The PS component appears dark 
after staining by RuO4, while the PLLA component appears light. The inner six reflections can be 
labeled as (200) and (110) and outer four reflections can be labeled as (203) based on an α form 
lattice structure of the PLLA crystals…………………………………………………………….15 
 VII
normal to the helical axes………………………………………………………………………...27 
Figure 22 3D schematic illustration of a) the [100]-axis (i.e., a-axis) and b) the 
[110]-uniaxial crystals within the transformed helical microdomain…………………………….29 
Figure 23 The crystallite size of the (110) and (200) planes varied with the PLLA 
crystallization temperature………………………………………………………………………..29 
Figure 24 DSC heating thermograms of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65)………………………….30 
Figure 25 DSC thermograms of (a) isothermal crystallization; (b) melting curves for 
PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) at different crystallization temperatures. On the basis of the 
reciprocal time of exothermic peak, the maximum crystallization rate is estimated at ca. 100 
oC…………………………………………………………………………………………………30 
Figure 26 (a) TEM micrograph; (b) SAXS profile of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) after PLLA 
crystallization at 90 oC from melt. As shown, crystallization destroys microphase-separated 
morphology……………………………………………………………………………………….31 
Figure 27 One-dimensional WAXD profile of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) after quench from 
175 oC. The WAXD results appear amorphous scattering; suggesting that there is no PLLA 
crystallization effect on microphase-separated morphology……………………………………..31 
Figure 28 TEM micrographs of PS55PLLA95 (fPLLAv = 0.65). (a) Projection along the cylinder 
axis; (b) Projection normal to the cylinder axis…………………………………………………..32 
Figure 29 Large-scale TEM micrographs of PS55PLLA95 (fPLLAv = 0.65). (a) Projection along 
the cylinder axis; (b) Projection normal to the cylinder axis. Inset shows the enlarged 
micrographs of the nanostructures………………………………………………………………..32 
Figure 30 TEM micrographs of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) viewing at tilting angles of (a) 0o; (b) 
20o; (c) 30o. Tilting experiments confirms the observed core-shell cylinder nanostructures….…32 
Figure 31 One-dimensional SAXS profile of PS55PLLA95 (fPLLAv = 0.65)…………………….33 
Figure 32 TEM micrograph of hydrolyzed core-shell cylinder nanostructures of PS55PLLA95 
(fPLLAv = 0.65)………………………………………………………………………………...…..34 
Figure 33 (a) TEM micrograph; (b) SAXS profile of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) after annealing 
at 140 oC for 3hr. Core-shell cylinder nanostructures remains as shown in TEM, and 1D SAXS 
profile also indicates hexagonally packed lattice which is consistent with TEM morphology…..35 
Figure 34 Schematic illustration of transition sequence from the vesicle to tubular structure…..35 
Figure 35 The illustration of PS tubular nanostructures formation from core-shell cylinder 
nanostructures. The observed core-shell cylinder nanostructures is the consequence of chirality 
driven twisting and bending origins from bilayered nanostructures through the scrolling of helical 
microdomains. By hydrolyzing the degradable PLLA block in the core-shell cylinder 
nanostructures, PS tubular nanostructures can be obtained………………………………………36 
 
 2
microphase-separated textures, to control the orientation of the microdomains and to enrich the 
material properties of block copolymers. The crystallization in semicrystalline block copolymers 
was found to be strongly affected by the geometry of the confined environments. Consequently, 
systematic studies were carried out and found that the final crystalline morphologies such as 
confined, breakout, templated as well as undulated textures were mainly determined by 
controlling the order-disorder transition temperature (TODT), the crystallization temperature of the 
crystallizing block (Tcc) and the glass transition temperature of the amorphous block (Tga). 
Namely, the crystallization driven morphologies are the consequence of the microphase 
separation, crystallization and vitrification. In addition, the crystalline orientation within a variety 
of microphase-separated morphologies including conventional lamellae,16-18 hexagonally packed 
cylinders (crystallizable cylinders),19 inverse hexagonal cylinders (non-crystallizable cylinders 
embedding in the crystallizable matrix), hexagonally perforated layers (crystallizable blocks are 
in-between the hexagonal compartments of perforations) have been well studied. In general, two 
conventional types of crystalline chain orientation (coinciding with the crystallographic c axis) in 
chain-folded crystals with respect to the interface of the microphase-separated nanostructures 
were found within the confined microdomains. The crystalline chains can be oriented parallel18 or 
perpendicular17 to the interface. It is also noted that the degree of preferred orientation within 
different confined shapes may vary with the crystallization temperature from random to 
perpendicular orientation.16 The variation of crystalline chain orientation under nanoscale spatial 
confinement is still in study. 
 
II. Objectives 
 
In this study, we aim to create self-assembled nanohelical phase in bulk by simply playing 
the trick of chirality. The approach is to transfer chiral information from a molecular level to form 
a chiral chain conformation and self assemble as a hierarchical helical superstructure and finally 
form a phase in macroscopic level for applications. This inspiration thus results in the design of 
synthetic block copolymer constituting with both achiral PS and chiral PLLA blocks, namely 
chiral block copolymer (BCP*), poly(styrene)-block-poly(L-lactide) (PS-PLLA) for 
self-assembly as a bulk. A series of chiral PS-PLLA copolymers with different volume ratios are 
prepared by using two-step polymerization sequence. Upon appropriate control of solvent 
evaporation rate, well-oriented self-assembled microdomains are observed. The structural 
characterization is performed by using 2D SAXS along different directions and TEM with tilting. 
After detailed understanding the BCP* phase behavior, manipulation of the self-assembled 
nanostructures form chiral PS-PLLA BCPs is examined d by the internal and external stimuli, 
such as crystallization (since PLLA is a crystallizable polymer) and shear field. Our results 
indicate the appearance of phase transitions for the novel morphology by applying various stimuli 
are obtained. By further control of thermal annealing, the tunable nanostructures can be generated; 
providing a possible way for manipulating switchable nanostructures. Moreover, to further study 
the phase transition induced by crystallization, crystallographic details within the microdomains 
are investigated by using simultaneous SAXS and WAXD as well as selective area electron 
 4
6.46-7.09 (br, 5H, ArH), 1.84 (br, 1H, CH), 1.42 (br, 2H, CH2). 
 
(3) Synthesis of Chiral PS-PLLA Block Copolymers  
The diblock copolymer was synthesized using PS capped with hydroxyl group, PS-OH as 
the macroinitiator, and Sn(Oct)2 as an catalyst. The typical ring-opening polymerization 
procedure is as follows (Figure 3.1). In glovebox, 0.6 g of PS-OH (0.1 mmol), L-LA (15 mmol, 
2.16 g), Sn(Oct)2 (8 mg), and 1.8 ml dry toluene were added into a 50 ml dry glass flask equipped 
with a magnetic stirrer. The flask was put into an oil bath at 110 oC with stirring for 3.5 h, and 
then cooled down to room temperature rapidly. The polymers formed were then dissolved in 
CH2Cl2 (30 ml) and the diblock copolymers were recovered by precipitation into MeOH (200 ml) 
and dried in vacuo at room temperature overnight. Yield: 1.91 g (88 %). The molecular weight 
distribution (Mw Mn-1) of PSm-PLLAn was determined by GPC and the numbers of L-LA 
repeating units (n) vs St repeating the units (m) were determined by 1H NMR analysis. For this 
case, the length of the PS block was held constant (Mn = 6000 g mol-1, Mw Mn-1 = 1.29), while 
the degree of polymerization of the PLLA block was varied as 96.5 (Mn(NMR) = 13900 g mol-1), 
Mn(GPC) = 19900 g mol-1, PDI = 1.17. 1H NMR (CDCl3): 6.46-7.09 (br, 5H, ArH), 5.16 (q, 1H, 
CH(CH3), J = 7.2 Hz), 1.84 (br, 1H, CH), 1.58 (d, 3H, CH(CH3), J = 7.2 Hz), 1.42 (br, 2H, CH2). 
The Mw, volume fraction and molecular distribution of the chiral PS-PLLA block copolymers 
were listed in Table 1. 
 
 
Scheme 1 Synthetic routes of PS-PLLA by ATRP polymerization and ring open polymerization in 
sequence. 
 
HO O
O
X
HO O Cl
O
DHI-Cl
PS-OH
m
X=Br or Cl
m St, CuBr / L
Toluene or Bulk
L = Bipy or HMTETA or 
PMDETA
H
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
X
Toluene
n L-LA, Sn(Oct)2
n m
X=Br or ClPLLA-b-PS
 6
Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) 
DSC experiments were carried out in a Perkin-Elmer DSC 7. The temperature and heat flow 
scales at different heating rates were carefully calibrated using standard materials. The typical 
procedure is as follows: the samples were first heated to the maximum annealing temperature, 
Tmax = 175 oC, for 3 min in order to eliminate the crystalline residues formed during the 
preparation procedure of PLLA. The samples were then cooled at a rate of 150 oC/min to room 
temperature and heated again to Tmax to examine Tg, Tc and Tm. Immediately, the samples were 
cooled at a rate of 150 °C/min to a preset temperature, Tc, for isothermal crystallization, and thus 
the crystallizable region can be found. The DSC sample size was around 5 mg for all the melting 
behavior studies. Each measurement was performed at least twice.  
 
Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) 
The PS-PLLA was microtomed at room temperature for TEM observations. A Reicher 
Ultracut microtome was equipped with a diamond knife. Staining was accomplished by exposing 
the samples to the vapor of a 4% aqueous RuO4 solution for 3h. Bright field TEM images of 
mass-thickness contrast were obtained from the stained samples on a JEOL JEM-1200x TEM, at 
an accelerating voltage of 120 kV. The microdomains of PS component appeared relatively dark 
after staining by RuO4, while the microdomains of PLLA component appeared light. The 
selective area electron diffraction (SAED) experiments were performed to investigate the 
crystallographic details of crystalline PLLA with respect to the corresponding crystallized 
PS-PLLA morphology. The diffraction patterns with the corresponding morphological 
observation were achieved by selected area electron diffraction. 
 
Stress-induced Orientation 
Flow-induced alignment of the nanohelical phase was conducted by using a lubricated 
channel die based on the design of Khan and Larson.[96] Molding and shearing on the 
non-crystallized nanohelices were performed on microphase-separated melt at 180oC for 1min, 
and then held the processed strip in the die at the shearing temperature for 1 min before 
quenching into liquid nitrogen so as to slightly eliminate the residual shear stress. Shear 
(velocity), vorticity and velocity gradient directions were assigned as x, y and z directions, 
respectively. 
 
IV. Results and Discussion 
 
1. Spring-like Nanohelical Structures20 
Thermal behavior of PS-PLLA block copolymers. 
Because of crystallizable PLLA blocks, the thermal behavior of semicrystalline PS-PLLA 
block copolymers was studied by using DSC.  Crystallization of PLLA in PS-PLLA gave rise to 
significant change for microphase-separated morphology of PS-PLLA as observed in our 
laboratory.  
 
 8
Crystallization effect/ internal stimuli on nanohelices. 
To comprehend the morphological transformation with respect to the crystallization, the 
crystalline orientation Bulk samples of block copolymers were prepared by solution casting from 
dichloromethane (CH2Cl2) solution (10 wt% solution of PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34)) at RT. As 
mentioned above, a nanohelical phase quenched from microphase-separated melt at 175oC (m.p. 
of PLLA is around 160oC) can be obtained from the self-assembly of PS-PLLA, and is packed in 
a hexagonal lattice. In contrast to the racemic block copolymers, polystyrene-b-poly(D,L-lactide) 
(PS-PLA), the formation of the nanohelical structures in PS-PLLA is attributed to the effect of 
chirality interacting with the immiscibility of constituent blocks. As a result, the self-assembly of 
helical curvature is induced by the formation of specific configurations of PLLA chains due to the 
interactions of chiral entities. Considering the origin of the self-assembled nanohelical structure, 
the formed nanohelices are expected to be affected by the changes on PLLA chain conformations. 
It is noted that the PLLA component is intrinsically a crystallizable polymer due to the regularity 
of chiral configuration. As observed, crystallization of PLLA in PS-PLLA might give rise to 
significant changes in the self-assembly morphology. The crystallization of PLLA in PS-PLLA is 
thus considered as a driving force (namely, an internal stimulus) to manipulate the 
non-crystallized nanohelical structure. As reported above, the final morphology of crystalline 
block copolymers is strongly dependent upon the experimental temperature, with respect to the 
order-disorder transition temperature (TODT), the crystallization temperature of the crystallizing 
block (Tcc), the glass transition of the amorphous block (Tga), and the crystallization rate. 
Consequently, the microphse-separated morphology is strongly determined by the temperature for 
crystallization of PLLA that also justifies the degree of vitrification of confined environment (i.e., 
PS matrix). Namely, the dividing confined environments, i.e., hard confinement (Tcc<Tga) and soft 
confinement (Tcc>Tga), dictate the final morphology of crystallized PS-PLLA. For system with 
Tcc<Tga, the ordered nanostructure can be persevered due to the vitrified microdomains of PS 
blocks. By contrast, if Tcc>Tga, the effect of crystallization may lead to the change on 
microphase-separated morphology.  
 
 
Figure 3 TEM micrographs of nanohelical morphologies in PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) bulk 
samples quenched from microphase-separated melt (165oC) then (a) crystallized at 80oC for 
120min; and (b) crystallized at 110oC for 120 min.  
 10
convenient ways to generate a well-orientated morphology for bulk samples in practical 
applications. Considering the spring-like behavior of the nanohelical phase, shearing (an external 
stimulus as compared to crystallization) is expected to achieve the orientation of nanohelices and 
modify the morphology for applications. Flow-induced alignment of the nanohelical phase was 
thus conducted by using a lubricated channel die based on the design of Khan and Larson. 
Molding and shearing on the intrinsic nanohelices were performed on microphase-separated melt 
at 180oC for 1min, and then held the processed strip in the die at the shearing temperature for 1 
min before quenching into liquid nitrogen to slightly eliminate the residual shear stress. Shear 
(velocity), vorticity and velocity gradient directions were assigned as x, y and z directions, 
respectively. After quenching from the shearing melt, hexagonally packed cylinder morphology 
was found in the y-z plane (Figure 5a). Also, the morphology of longitudinal cylinder was 
observed along y direction (Figure 5b) whereas two-dimensional SAXS pattern along the y 
direction appeared as a well-defined diffraction from oriented microdomains (inset of Figure 5b). 
1D SAXS profile indicated the unchanged hexagonally packed structures after shearing (Figure 
4d). As a result, oriented cylinders were found, and the nanohelices also exhibited spring-like 
behavior in response to shearing. Contrary to crystallization-induced cylinders, the shear-induced 
cylinders appeared as an amorphous entity. 
 
 
Figure 5 TEM micrographs of nanohelical structures in PS280PLLA127 (fPLLAv=0.34) bulk 
samples after shearing at 180oC (above the m.p. of PLLA (~160oC) and Tg,PS (99.2oC)) by 
viewing (a) parallel, and (b) perpendicular to the shear axis. The inset is 2D SAXS pattern normal 
to the cylindrical axes. 
 
 12
Switchable nanohelical structures. 
A variety of self-assembled nanohelices in chiral block copolymers was observed by 
applying internal and external stimuli (i.e., crystallization and shearing) (Figure 8). The 
amorphous nanohelices in bulk are able to transfer into crystalline nanohelices and crystalline 
cylinders by crystallization, and amorphous cylinders by shearing. The crystallization-induced 
cylinders were found thermally reversible, and able to revert to original nanohelices upon 
remelting and annealing. In contrast to crystallized nanohelices, the reversible phase behavior can 
also be found in shear-induced cylinders by simple thermal annealing. As a result, the 
hexagonally packed nanohelical structure of the PLLA in the PS matrix of chiral PS-PLLA block 
copolymers appears as spring-like behavior in response to the applied stimuli. This unique phase 
behavior thus creates a possible way for manipulating tunable nanohelical structures in practical 
applications. Consequently, switchable nanohelices from BCP* can be manipulated by interplay 
of vitrification, crystallization and microphase separation as well as shearing. 
 
 
Figure 8 Spring-loaded polymers: The nanohelical structure of PLLA in PS matrix of chiral 
PS-PLLA BCPs displays springlike behavior in response to an applied stimulus. The 
self-assembled nanohelices are able to transform into cylinders by crystallization or shearing. 
This thermally reversible phase behavior may be used for manipulating switchable nanohelical 
structures. 
 
2. A Springlike Behavior of Chiral Block Copolymer with Helical Nanostructure Driven by 
Crystallization21 
Non-crystallized Helical Nanostructure in Self-assembly of PS-PLLA 
 PS-PLLA bulk samples were prepared by solution casting from dichloromethane (CH2Cl2) 
solution (10 wt % of PS-PLLA) at room temperature. After quenching from the 
microphase-separated ordered melt at 175oC, the thermally treated PS-PLLA was subsequently 
sectioned by ultra-microtome for TEM observation. As in our previous study, a helical 
 14
 
Figure 9 2D SAXS patterns of the orientated PS-PLLA quenched from ordered melt at 175°C 
obtained along a) z, b) x, and c) y directions. d) Azimuthal integration of the qy-qz plane. e) 3D 
simulated model for the hexagonally packed helical nanostructures with uniplanar orientation (i.e., 
edge-on hexagonal lattice and )0110( //xz) and simulated 2D SAXS patterns in x, y and z 
directions. 
 
Crystalline Orientation within Confined Helical Nanostructures while Tc,PLLA<Tg,PS 
 To comprehend the crystallization mechanism under helical confinement, the 
crystallographic details within the confined microdomains should be investigated. In other words, 
it is necessary to clarify the crystalline orientation of crystallites grown within the helical 
microdomains. Note that the crystalline orientation within those helices is inevitably varied with 
the orientation of the helical nanostructures. Since the helical nanostructures appear as a 
uniplanar orientation in bulk as identified, it is not possible to acquire the crystallographic 
information with respect to a nanostructured monograin directly from the bulk samples. By taking 
advantage of the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) technique, inherent crystalline 
orientation within helices might be identified by selecting monograin-like region for diffraction 
so as to avoid the superimposed diffraction from other nanostructured polygrains. The 
 16
 On the basis of the pseudo-orthorhombic lattice structure of PLLA crystals, an α form 
structure with unit cell dimensions of a = 1.07 nm, b = 0.595 nm, c = 2.78 nm and α =β =γ= 
90°,[46] the observed reflections could be indexed as (200), (110), and (203) reflections as shown 
in Figure 10b. Two inner arcs on the equator and four off-axis inner arcs correspond to the (200) 
and (110) reflections or vice verses because of equal inter-plane distance (d(110)～d(200) = 0.53 nm) 
for a pseudo-orthorhombic lattice. Moreover, the reflections on the equator exhibit higher 
intensity than the reflections in the quadrant whereas four outer arcs in the quadrant (i.e., the (203) 
reflections) show an unusual diffused diffraction in intensity. Figure 10c represents the schematic 
illustration of the ED pattern. According to the corresponding features, the scattering patterns 
suggest the coexistence of two sets of uniaxial patterns, that is, the [100] and [110]-axis uniaxial 
patterns (Figure 11a-b). As illustrated, the schematic ED patterns of [100] and [110]-axis uniaxial 
patterns are obtained by rotating the PLLA crystal lattice along [100] and [110]-axes so as to give 
higher intensities for reflections on the equator and two-set four diffused off-axis arcs (that is the 
(203) reflections) in the quadrant as illustrated in Figure 4c. These two sets of uniaxial patterns 
thus suggest the coexistence of two sets of crystalline anisotropies (i.e., [100] and [110]-axis 
uniaxial orientations) when the PLLA crystallization is carried out under helical confinement. 
According to the observed morphology (i.e., crystalline helices) with the corresponding SAED 
experiments, the results suggest two preferential growth directions under confinement. The 
preferred growth directions of the PLLA crystallites either along [100] or [110]-axis are parallel 
to the central axes of the helical nanostructures instead of the helical tracks (see below for 
detailed discussion). As a result, for crystallization under helical confinement, the molecular 
chains and the growth direction of the crystallites are normal and parallel to the central axes of 
helices, respectively. 
 
 18
(Figures 12e), for the inner reflections, two broad diffraction peaks with diffused scattering 
background can be observed at azimuthal angle, Φ = 90o and 270o (Figures 13). These broad 
reflections are attributed to the overlapping of the four off-axis reflections. After peak 
decomposition by six Gaussian-Lorentz functions, the reflections at 30°, 90°, 150°, 210°, 270° 
and 330° (the gray line in Figure 13) can be resolved. For the angular integration of the (203) 
reflections, two sets of (203) reflections can be resolved by peak decomposition at Φ =26°, 61°, 
119°, 154, 206°, 241°, 299° and 334° labeled as gray and dashed lines, respectively (Figure 13). 
Consequently, these reflections are compatible with the suggested model (Figure 11c) where two 
sets of uniaxial patterns, namely, the [100] and [110]-axis uniaxial patterns coexist. Considering 
the effect of the uniplanar orientation of the helical nanostructures on the crystalline orientation 
of PLLA crystallites, the arcs on the WAXD patterns might be diffused to the equator, revealing 
that the crystalline orientation is indeed affected by the orientation of the helices. As a result, the 
crystallographic analysis from the angular integration of the (200) and (110) reflections as well as 
(203) reflections further confirms our suggestion: the coexistence of two preferential crystalline 
growth along the [100] and [110]-axes under hard confinement (helical contour). 
 
 
Figure 12 Simultaneous 2D SAXS and WAXD patterns of oriented PS-PLLA isothermally 
crystallized at 90oC from ordered melt at 175oC along z (a and d), x (b and e) and y directions (c 
and f) 
 
 20
that preferential crystalline growth along [100] and [110]-axis also occurs under soft confinement 
even though the phase transformation of crystalline cylinders is driven by PLLA crystallization. 
As a result, the coexistence of two sets of uniaxial patterns along [100] and [110]-axes and the 
preferential crystalline growth parallel to the central axis of the crystalline cylinders is evident 
according to the results of the SAED pattern with respect to the corresponding morphology. 
 
 
Figure 14 a) TEM micrograph of the monograin of crystalline cylinders under hard 
confinement (Tc,PLLA= 110oC); b) the corresponding SAED pattern. The PS component appears 
relatively dark after staining by RuO4, while the PLLA component appears light. The inner six 
reflections can be labeled as (200) and (110) and outer four reflections can be labeled as (203) 
based on an α form lattice structure of the PLLA crystals. 
 
 Moreover, according to the 2D SAXS results, the uniplanar orientation becomes isotropic 
once the PLLA crystallization occurs above the Tg,PS (Figures 15). However, the packing of the 
microphase-separated nanostructure still remains as a hexagonal lattice regardless of the 
execution of crystallization-induced phase transformation, as evidenced by one dimensional 
SAXS profiles (Figure 16). Analogues phenomena can also be found in 2D WAXD patterns, 
where ring-like (110) and (200) as well as (203) reflections were obtained in z, x and y directions 
(Figures 15d-f for Tc,PLLA=110oC), indicating that the crystalline orientation within the confined 
microdomain indeed varies with the orientation of the microphase-separated nanostructure so as 
to observe the isotropic orientation of the 2D WAXD pattern. 
 
 22
(200) and (110) reflections can be obtained from the peak deconvolution (see the gray line in 
Figure 17a), which indicates that highly anisotropic crystallites are formed in the confined helices. 
Furthermore, the maximum intensity (Imax- IBackground) of the (200) and (110) reflections of the 
PLLA crystals within the microdomain (Figure 17a) and the )0110( reflections of the 
microphase-separated helical nanostructures (Figure 17b) progressively decrease with elevating 
the PLLA crystallization temperature. Eventually, the azimuthal peaks appear as uniform 
intensity (Imax- IBackground ~ zero) once Tc,PLLA > Tg,PS (see Tc,PLLA=110oC in Figure 17a-b), 
indicating the disorientation of the PLLA crystals and microphase-separeated nanostructures. 
Consequently, the variation of PLLA crystallites within the confined microdomain corresponds 
well with the change on the orientation of crystalline cylinders induced by crystallization. 
 
 
 
Figure 17 Azimuthal integration of a) the (110) and (200) reflections of the PLLA crystals in 
2D WAXD patterns and b) the )0110(  reflections of the hexagonally packed nanostructures in 
2D SAXS patterns at different crystallization temperatures, Tc,PLLA= 90oC, 95oC, 100oC, 105oC 
and 110oC. The gray lines indicate the decovoluted peaks of the azimuthal integration. 
 
 By combination of the results of ED patterns and the corresponding morphologies, the 
crystalline orientation under confinement can thus be clearly identified without the perturbation 
due to the cause of the nanostructure disorientation induced by crystallization. Figure 18 
 24
the disorientation of transformed helices. We speculate that the change in orientation is attributed 
to the confrontation of the transformation during crystallization. For the crystallization within the 
PLLA microdomains, the nucleation and growth of the PLLA crystallites may not be coordinated 
during crystallization so as to cause the asynchronies in the transformation of the helical 
nanostructures, and lead to the disorientation of monograins after crystallization. Consequently, 
transformation from helices to cylinders is not coordinated; the oriented packing of the helices 
will be distorted due to the inconsistence in the dimension change during transformation. By 
contrast, as evidenced by 2D SAXS patterns, well-ordered cylindrical microdomain with highly 
anisotropic reflections were achieved by shearing (Figure 5) because of the synchronous shearing 
events for all the helical microdomains in the channel die, further confirming the hypothesis for 
the cause of disorientation due to non-harmonic crystallization events. Moreover, because of the 
uniplanar orientation of the helical nanostructures, the orientation of the central axes of the 
helices in different grains is inconsistent and parallel to the substrate plane (xz). During 
transformation from helices to cylinders in different oriented grains, the confrontation of domain 
expansion might occur due to the dimensional change along the central axis driven by 
crystallization. Therefore, the inconsistence in the orientation of the central axes in different 
grains might cause the formation of the buckles (see upper position in Figure 14a) between the 
grains during transformation and cause the disorientation of the microphase-separated 
nanostructures (Figure 19). As a result, the preferential orientation of the microphase-separated 
helical nanostructures thus disappears after crystallization due to the non-harmonic crystallization 
events and formation of the buckles under soft confinement. Namely, the uniplanar orientation of 
the microphase-separated nanostructure disappears, and turns into random orientation so as to 
cause the isotropy of corresponding orientation of the PLLA crystallites (Figure 13b). 
 
 
Figure 19 Illustration of the disorientation of the microphase-separated microdomains after 
 26
confinement of the cylindrical phase, HPL phase and inversed cylindrical phase. In these studies, 
the preferential crystalline orientation induced by confinement is referred to the restriction of the 
confined microdomain, the level of nucleation density and the type of crystalline growth. In the 
case of helical confinement, it is intuitive to suggest that the crystal growth direction may 
selectively follow the unrestricted pathway (i.e., helical track) to reach the fast growth as the 
primary concern for the crystalline growth (Figure 21). Also, in addition to the consideration of 
kinetic origin, it is necessary to maximize the crystallinity for the consideration of 
thermodynamic origins. Namely, the unique crystalline orientation under helical confinement 
should lead to achieve maximum crystallinity and minimum Gibbs free energy during 
crystallization. If the crystalline growth follows the helical track (Figure 21b), the continuous 
variation of the fast crystal growth directions will inevitably create large amount of grain 
boundaries and defects even though growing along helical track is the least constrained direction. 
These extra grain boundaries and defects would cause unfavorably low crystallinity. Furthermore, 
growing along the helical track, the PLLA crystallites must adjust themselves and form 
saddle-like texture to conform the curvature of helical interface. It would inevitably cause the 
bending and twisting of the crystallites (Figure 21a). The formation of the saddle-like crystalline 
texture of the crystals would create bending surface between adjacent crystallites so as to cause 
significant enthalpic penalty from the interface. To create less defects and grain boundaries 
during crystalline growth, one possible way is to progress straight with less variation of the 
crystalline growth. Also, to lower the enthalpic penalty, the PLLA crystallites should grow 
parallel to the central axis that makes less contact area and uniformly oriented crystalline lamellae 
regardless of the change on the curvature. Consequently, the twisting PLLA crystals along the fast 
crystal growth direction are formed (Figure 10a). By comparison, because of the exclusion of 
bending crystalline surface, the twisting crystals possess less enthalpic penalty than the twisting 
and bending crystals so as to lower the Gibbs free energy of growing crystallites under 
confinement (Figure 20a). Furthermore, this uniformly oriented crystalline growth along [100] 
and [110]-axes parallel to the central axis also provide better density accommodation at the 
crystallite surface. As a result, the crystalline growth prefers straight propagating to following the 
helical track. The winding PLLA crystals with specific crystallographic orientation parallel to the 
central axis (fast crystal growth direction rotating along the central axis) instead of the helical 
track within the helical microdomain can be found, indicating that the crystalline growth under 
confinement is indeed directed by confined contour for polymeric crystallization. 
 
 
 28
under soft environment. As evidenced by SAED, the crystalline growth also exhibits identical 
anisotropic orientation to that under hard confinement (i.e., the coexistence of [100] and 
[110]-axis uniaxial patterns). As illustrated in Figure 22, the preferential growth directions are 
along [100] (Figure 22a) and [110]-axes (Figure 22b) parallel to central axes of the crystalline 
cylinders. Although the PLLA crystal growth is under molten state of the PS matrix, the crystal 
growth is still restricted due to the strong segregation strength. Strong segregation strength thus 
leads to a sharp boundary due to the clear-cut concentration profile across the interface. This 
sharp boundary might reduce the concentration fluctuation near the interface and reinforce the 
strength of the interface so as to restrain the crystalline growth from penetrating out of the 
interface. Consequently, breakout and templated morphologies are not observed when the 
crystalline cylinders are formed under soft confinement. Namely, while Tc,PLLA≧Tg,PS, the sharp 
interface between PS and PLLA still remain even the chains at the interface are mobile. In 
contrast to the crystallization under hard confinement, the crystalline growth of the PLLA 
crystallites under soft confinement is found to be independent of the structural contour since the 
PS-PLLA chains at interface are able to rearrange and/or reorganize for achieving the fast path for 
crystalline growth (namely, the straight path for crystallization within the confined microdomain 
in kinetics because of the lower energy barrier for the rearrangement of molecular chains) and 
thus lead to the phase transformation of the helical nanostructure. Meanwhile, except for the 
consideration of kinetic origins, the straight path may also lead to the formation of lower Gibbs 
free energy state in thermodynamics. Namely, the preferential growth may result in the 
rearrangement of the molecular chains at the interface and thus modulate the curvature of 
microdomains to access the maximum crystallinity and the reduction of enthapic penalty with 
less defects and grain boundaries. As a result, the PLLA crystals along fast growth directions, 
[100] and [110] axes, gives rise to the crystallization-induced transformation of the helices. 
Furthermore, the crystalline sizes of the (110) and (200) planes as determined by Scherrer 
equation were found to vary with Tc,PLLA (Figure 23). The crystalline size of the PLLA crystallite 
increases significantly once Tc,PLLA≧Tg,PS. Namely, the growth of PLLA crystallites under soft 
confinement is able to create larger crystalline size than that under hard confinement because of 
the soft PS matrix. As a result, the microphase-separated helical morphology is indeed dictated by 
crystallization so as to lead phase transformation from non-crystallized helices to crystalline 
cylinders under soft confinement. 
 
 30
exothermic crystallization of PLLA. Therefore, sample was initially heated to 175 oC to erase 
thermal history and quenched to 100 oC for 3 hours to make crystallization of PLLA segments 
complete, and then quenched to 25 oC. Subsequently, second-scan DSC curve was performed and 
crystal effect of PLLA can thus be alleviated. Tg,PS was determined as 78 oC (Figure 24b). The 
heating rate was 10 oC min-1. 
 
Figure 24 DSC heating thermograms of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65). 
 
 
Figure 25 DSC thermograms of (a) isothermal crystallization; (b) melting curves for 
PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) at different crystallization temperatures. On the basis of the 
reciprocal time of exothermic peak, the maximum crystallization rate is estimated at ca. 100 oC. 
 
Due to the crystallization of PLLA in PS-PLLA gave rise to significant change for 
microphase-separated morphology of PS-PLLA as evidenced by TEM (Figure 26) in which RuO4 
stained PS microdomains appear as dark regions whereas PLLA microdomains appear as bright 
regions. As shown, crystallization destroys microphase-separated morphology. Therefore, to 
eliminate the disturbance of PLLA crystallization on formed morphology, cast samples were 
annealed at temperature above PLLA melting (175 oC for three minutes) but below order-disorder 
transition temperature, and then rapidly cooled at a rate of 150 oC min-1 to room temperature (no 
significant degradation was found as evidenced by GPC analysis) for transmission electron 
microscopy (TEM) and X-ray scattering experiments. The wide-angle X-ray diffraction results 
appeared amorphous scattering (Figure 27); suggesting that there is no PLLA crystallization 
effect on microphase-separated morphology. 
 
 32
cylindrical axes (Figure 28b) further confirmed the suggested core-shell cylinder nanostructures 
where the dark shells and gray cylinder cores can be observed; consistent with the assumed 
core-shell cylinders. 
 
Figure 28 TEM micrographs of PS55PLLA95 (fPLLAv = 0.65). (a) Projection along the cylinder 
axis; (b) Projection normal to the cylinder axis. 
 
 
Figure 29 Large-scale TEM micrographs of PS55PLLA95 (fPLLAv = 0.65). (a) Projection along 
the cylinder axis; (b) Projection normal to the cylinder axis. Inset shows the enlarged 
micrographs of the nanostructures. 
 
 
Figure 30 TEM micrographs of PS55-PLLA95 (fPLLAv=0.65) viewing at tilting angles of (a) 0o; (b) 
 34
methanol mixture containing sodium hydroxide for five days to degrade the PLLA block, and 
then dispersed in methanol solution. The degradation solution was dropped on carbon-coated 
films, and then stained by RuO4 for TEM experiments. As shown in Figure 32, hollow-tube-like 
texture could be clearly identified; indicating that the formation of core-shell cylinder is intrinsic.  
 
Figure 32 TEM micrograph of hydrolyzed core-shell cylinder nanostructures of PS55PLLA95 
(fPLLAv = 0.65). 
 
Therefore, in addition to the formation of nanotubes from triblock or tetrablock copolymer 
systems, the self-assembly of chiral diblock copolymers with degradable character may also 
provide an easy and convenient way of fabricating tubular nanostructures with unique 
applications in nanotechnologies. Aspects of polymer chemistry such as the ability to cross-link 
the tubular nanostructures or to functionalize the polymer chains will offer exciting prospects in 
many applications such as drug delivery, nanocable and nanoreactors to template inorganic 
materials (metals, silica and other oxides etc.) 
 
Proposed Mechanism of Formation of CS Phase 
It is noted that the formation of core-shell cylinder nanostructures in ABC triblock 
copolymers or their blends is controlled by the relative incompatibilities.23-26 Unlike the 
core-shell cylinder nanostructures in ABC triblock copolymers,23-26 this unique tubular texture for 
achiral block is attributed to the chiral effect induced by the chiral block. Similar core-shell 
cylinder morphology has been found in the self-assembly of diblock copolymers of 
polystyrene-b-poly(1,3-cyclohexadiene) (PS-PCHD) by Gido and coworkers.27 It is remarkable to 
recognize that the PS-PCHD block copolymers also possess chiral entity (i.e., PCHD). Therefore, 
we speculate that the core-shell cylinder nanostructures of self-assembled PS-PLLA diblock 
copolymers are induced by the formation of specific configurations of PLLA chains. The 
correspondence of chiral entities interacting with the immiscibility of constituted blocks might 
result in the specific PLLA chain conformations. The formed core-shell cylinder nanostructures 
exhibit as stable phase, evidenced by the long-life CS phase under annealing (Figure 33). The 
chirality driven nanostructures is resulted from energetic compensation between incompatibility 
 36
the self-assembly of chiral lipid bilayer molecules, the observed core-shell cylinder 
nanostructures is the consequence of chirality driven twisting and bending origins from bilayered 
nanostructures through the scrolling of helical microdomains. As illustrated in Figure 35, the 
polymer chains first appear as bilayered nanostructures. Instead of forming cylinders as expected 
from the constituted composition in conventional block copolymer system (i.e., achiral block 
copolymers), core-shell cylinder nanostructures is obtained. By introducing the chiral effect on 
the self-assembly of block copolymers, the energetically favored molecular dispositions lead to 
twisting and bending of the bilayered nanostructures resulting in a helical curvature at the 
interface. Furthermore, the formed microdomains with helical sense can then be scrolled to reach 
the minimum-energy state. Consequently, a stable phase of core-shell cylinder nanostructures can 
be found in the PS-PLLA block copolymer system (i.e., chiral block copolymers). In conclusion, 
the observed core-shell cylinder nanostructures demonstrate a possible way of generating a 
unique phase with helical sense for achiral component by introducing chiral effect for microphase 
separation. Also, the self-assembly of the degradable PS-PLLA diblock copolymers provides an 
easy and convenient way of preparing tubular nanostructures with unique applications in 
nanotechnologies because of the degradable nature of the ester group. 
 
Figure 35 The illustration of PS tubular nanostructures formation from core-shell cylinder 
nanostructures. The observed core-shell cylinder nanostructures is the consequence of chirality 
driven twisting and bending origins from bilayered nanostructures through the scrolling of helical 
microdomains. By hydrolyzing the degradable PLLA block in the core-shell cylinder 
nanostructures, PS tubular nanostructures can be obtained. 
 
V. Conclusion 
 
In conclusion, chirality driven microphase-separated morphology with helical sense, a 
hexagonally packed poly(L-lactide) (PLLA) nanohelices in poly(styrene) (PS) matrix, was 
discovered from chiral diblock copolymers, PS-PLLA. Contrary to the conventional phase 
morphology of block copolymers (BCPs), the formation of the nanohelical phase is attributed to 
the chirality of the constituent block (i.e., PLLA segment). We thus denominated the BCP system 
as a chiral block copolymers (BCP*). The formation of this new phase in bulk is referred to the 
 38
(5) (a) Krappe, U.; Stadler, R.; Voigt-Martin, I. Macromolecules 1995, 28, 4558. (b) Stadler, R.; 
Auschra, C.; Beckmann, J.; Krappe, U.; Voigt-Martin, I.; Leibler, L. Macromolecules 1995, 28, 
3080. 
(6) (a) Li, C. Y.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Ge, J. J.; Bai, F.; Zhang, J. Z.; Mann, I. K.; Harris, F. W.; Chien, 
L.-C.; Yan, D.; He, T.; Lotz, B. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1999, 83, 4558. (b) Li, C. Y.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Ge, 
J. J.; Bai, F.; Zhang, J. Z.; Mann, I. K.; Chien, L.-C.; Harris, F. W.; Lotz, B. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
2000, 122, 72.  
(7) Nelson, J. C.; Saven, J. G.; Moore, J. S.; Wolynes P. G. Science 1997, 277, 1793. 
(8) Jung, J. H.; Kobayashi, H.; Masuda, M.; Shimizu, T.; Shinkai, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 
8785.  
(9) Hulvat, J. F.; Stupp S. I. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2002, 41, 1705. 
(10) Ho, R.-M.; Chiang, Y.-W.; Tsai, C.-C.; Lin, C.-C.; Ko, B.-T.; Huang, B.-H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
2004, 126, 2704. 
(11) Ho, R.-M.; Chiang, Y.-W.; Tsai, C.-C.; Lin, C.-C.; Ko, B.-T.; Huang, B.-H. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 
2004, 126, 2704. 
(12) Park, C.; Yoon, J.; Thomas, E. L. Polymer 2003, 44, 6725. 
(13) (a) Ryu, C. Y.; Ruokolainen, J.; Fredrickson, G. H.; Kramer, E. J.; Hahn, S. F. 
Macromolecules 2002, 35, 2157. (b) Ruokolainen, J.; Fredrickson, G. H.; Kramer, E. J.; Ryu, C. 
Y.; Hahn, S. F.; Magonov, S. N. Macromolecules 2002, 35, 9391. (c) Mahanthappa, M. K.; Lim, 
L. S.; Hillmyer, M. A.; Bates, F. S. Macromolecules 2007, 40, 1585. 
(14) (a) Muthukumar, M.; Ober, C. K.; Thomas, E. L. Science 1997, 277, 1225. (b) Lehmann, W.; 
Skupin, H.; Tolksdorf, C.; Gebhard, E.; Zentel, R.; Kruger, P.; Losche, M.; Kremer, F. Nature 
2001, 410, 447. 
(15) (a) Thomas, E. L.; Alward, D. B.; Kinning, D. J.; Martin, D. C.; Handlin, D. L.; Fetters, L. J. 
Macromolecules 1986, 19, 2197. (b) Alward, D. B.; Kinning, D. J.; Thomas, E. L.; Fetters, L. J. 
Macromolecules 1986, 19, 215. (c) Anderson, D. M.; Thomas, E. L. Macromolecules 1988, 21, 
3221. (d) Tselikas, Y.; Hadjichristidis, N.; Lescanec, R. L.; Honeker, C. C.; Wohlgemuth, M.; 
Thomas, E. L. Macromolecules 1996, 29, 3390. 
(16) Zhu, L.; Cheng, S. Z. D.; Calhoun, B. H.; Ge, G.; Quirk, R. P.; Thomas, E. L.; Hsiao, B. S.; 
Yeh, F.; Lotz, B. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122, 5957. 
(17) Ho, R.-M.; Chiang, Y.-W.; Lin, C.-C.; Huang, B.-H. Macromolecules 2005, 38, 4769-4779. 
(18) Douzinas, K. C.; Cohen, R. E. Macromolecules 1992, 25, 5030. 
(19) Quiram, D. J.; Register, R. A.; Marchand, G. R. Macromolecules 1997, 30, 4551. 
(20) Chiang, Y.-W.; Ho, R.-M.; Ko, B.-T.; Lin, C.-C. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 7969. 
(21) Ho, R.-M.; Tseng, W.-H.; Chiang, Y.-W.; Chen, C.-K. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, in Revision. 
(22) Ho, R.-M.; Chen, C.-K.; Chiang, Y.-W.; Ko, B.-T.; Lin, C.-C. Adv. Mater. 2006, 18, 2355. 
(23) Riess, G.; Schlienger, M.; Marti, G. J. Macromol. Sci., Phys. 1980, B17, 355. 
(24) Breiner, U.; Krappe, U.; Abetz, V.; Stadler, R. Macromol. Chem. Phys. 1997, 198, 1051. 
(25) Balsamo, V.; Gil, G.; Urbina de Navarro, C.; Hamley, I. W.; von Gyldenfeldt, F.; Abetz, V.; 
Canizales, E. Macromolecules 2003, 36, 4515. 
(26) Bailey, T. S.; Pham, H. D.; Bates, F. S. Macromolecules 2001, 34, 6994. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-007-024 
計畫名稱 掌性效應於團聯共聚物自組裝影響之研究(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
何榮銘教授國立清華大學化工系 
會議時間地點 
日本:名古屋、橫濱、東京 
中國大陸:上海 
會議名稱 
第 57 屆 SPSJ 年會 
暨第 5屆東亞高分子會議 
 
發表論文題目 
(中文)掌性團聯共聚物之新穎奈米微結構 
(英文) Novel Nanostructures From Chiral Block Copolymers 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本次行程首先應邀前往名古屋大學進行邀請演講，於 2008.05.25 抵達名古
屋，2008.05.26 於名古屋大學分子設計與工程系演講。全程由著名學者 Prof. 
Yashima 陪同，並於次日 2008.05.27 前往橫濱參加日本高分子學會年會，擔任本次
年會亞洲地區 Asia Excellence 之邀請演講員，此為一相當高的榮譽。每年日本高
分子學會於亞洲遴選五至十位學者前往該學會年會演講，並頒予紀念獎牌，於該
年會參與四天之會議，于 2008.05.31 轉往東京工業大學由 Prof. Iyoda 陪同於該校
進行一場邀請演講。隔日於東京與 Prof. Iyoda 進行研究討論，于 2008.06.02 由東
京前往上海參加第五屆 East-Asia Polymer Conference 擔任大會邀請演講員，並主
持分組會議議程，此會議乃是由東亞各大學之學者共同參與，約每兩年一次由東
亞之重要學校輪流主辦，乃是高分子學者於東亞之重要學術交流之聚會，會議並
邀請全世界著名高分子學者與會，本屆亦盛況空前，有許多之學者與會，于
2008.06.03 參與四天之會議，于 2008.06.06 反台。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次主要行程之一為前往日本參加其年會，並參訪兩所日本之主流大會，且與日本
知名高分子學者互動，如參訪名古屋大學與該校副校長 Prof. Mazushita 及 Prof. 
Yashima，有相當良好的互動，並建立友誼，為不可多得之國際交流。而參與日本高分子
年會擔任 Asia Excellence 之邀請演講員亦使研究成兼得以於日本學界發表乃是相當好的
經驗，參訪東京工業大學 Prof. Iyoda 實室則使目前個人研究的領堿 Nanopatterning，達到
心得交換的最佳機會，參與東亞高分子研討會則與中國學者有相當好的互動，機乎與大
陸知名之重點實驗室學者都有進一步的互動，乃為此次會議的最大邊際效益。 
 
三、建議 
