 1
使用高頻超音波參數與統計模型探討血液流變特性 
Study of Blood Rheological Properties Using High Frequency Ultrasonic Parameters and 
Statistical Models 
 
Abstract 
The echogenicity of whole blood is known to vary during the flow cycle under pulsatile flow both in 
vitro and in vivo. However, the fundamental underlying mechanisms remain uncertain. The combined 
effects of flow acceleration and the shear rate were recently used to explain the cyclic variations of signals 
backscattered from flowing blood. However, testing this hypothesis requires determination of the spatial 
distributions of red blood cells (RBCs) in flowing blood. In present study, the 35-MHz high-frequency 
ultrasonic statistical parameters were used to investigate the spatial distribution of RBCs over the pulsatile 
flow cycle. Fresh porcine whole blood and RBC suspensions with hematocrits of 20% and 40% were 
respectively circulated in a flow phantom under pulsatile flow at different flow velocities (10 to 30 cm/s). 
The Nakagami parameter (m) and scaling parameter (Ω) were calculated for different blood properties and 
conditions, and the velocity in the center of blood flowing through a tube was measured synchronously. 
The experimental results demonstrated that most RBCs were aggregated progressively near the center of 
the tube as the flow velocity started to accelerate, and that the increase in the average power of the 
backscattered signal envelope to a maximum was attributable to larger rouleaux being formed in the center 
of the tube. The changes in spatial distributions of RBCs indicated that cyclic variations of the 
backscattering signal under pulsatile flow are attributable to a compressional force from flowing blood that 
promotes RBC aggregation in the center of the tube during the acceleration phase. In addition, the plasma 
proteins in whole blood appear to exert a force that promotes the formation of rouleaux, with this force 
being compensated by the applied flow velocity.  
 
Keywords: High-frequency ultrasound, pulsatile flow, aggregation, ultrasonic statistical parameters, 
hematocrit 
 
中文摘要 
    無論是離體或是活體中，於脈動流下的全血超音波回波訊號都具有週期性之變化。然而，對於
此現象的基本原理尚未清楚。近來大多學者結合血流加速理論與剪速率用來解釋血液的週期性逆散
射訊號變化。但是為了驗證此假設，必須證明紅血球於流體內的空間分佈狀況。因此，本研究利用
35 MHz 高頻超音波逆散射訊號統計參數探討紅血球於脈動流下的空間分佈情形。本實驗使用 20%
與 40%血容比之新鮮猪隻全血與紅血球懸浮液，分別以血液流速為 10 與 30 cm/s 循環於脈動流的血
液循環仿體內。計算超音波逆散射訊號之 Nakagami 參數(m) 與 scaling 參數(Ω)於不同的血液特性條
件下分析紅血球分佈狀態，同時量測血液於流管中心的流速用於比較逆散射訊號參數之變化。實驗
結果證明當血液流速開始加速時，紅血球會逐漸聚集於流管中心。同時因為較大錢串(rouleaux)開始
形成於流管中心，超音波逆散射訊號的平均能量達到最大值。透過紅血球於空間分佈的狀態指出，
血液於脈動流下的全血超音波回波訊號之週期性變化可歸咎於血流在加速過程中所產生的壓縮力將
促進紅血球聚集於中心部位。另外，全血中的血漿蛋白明顯的可促進錢串的形成，而此作用可被血
流速度所補償。 
 
關鍵詞：高頻超音波、脈動流、聚集、超音波統計參數、血容比 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Blood is the vital fluid pumped by the heart through the circulatory system in human body. It reaches 
all of the cells in the body, bringing them oxygen and nutrients, taking away carbon dioxide and other waste 
products. Blood is a connective tissue that consists of erythrocytes, leukocytes, platelets, plasma, clotting 
factors, and small proteins (Vander et al. 1998). The phenomenon of red blood cell (RBC) aggregation, 
which is a reversible physiological process occurring in flowing blood, might increase blood viscosity and 
flow resistance, form sludge blood in vessels, and promote blood coagulation (Thomson 1991). 
Consequently, characterization of RBC aggregation from flowing blood is crucial in clinical research. The 
scattering of ultrasound from blood is mainly attributed to the RBCs, because they are larger and much 
more numerous than other blood cells. The properties of RBC aggregation under both steady and pulsatile 
flow have been widely studied using ultrasound techniques due to their low cost, real-time, and noninvasive 
capabilities (Shung et al. 1992; Cloutier and Shung 1993a). In general, backscattering from whole blood is 
Apparatus, Holliston, MA) for blood circulation and a reservoir was used to remove bubbles and to store 
blood. A magnetic stirrer (Cole-Parmer, IL, USA) at the bottom of reservoir prevented the blood cells from 
settling. A bifurcation from the pump was established and a valve was used to control the flow velocity. The 
peak flow velocities were respectively adjusted to approximately 10, 20, and 30 cm/s in present study. The 
whole flow model contained 1200 milliliters of blood in flow phantom. A polyurethane conduit had an 
inner diameter of 3 mm. Prior to implement each experiment, the blood sample was circulated in the 
conduit for approximately 1 h to eliminate possible air bubbles and to allow ambient temperature being 
maintained at 25±1oC. A water tank filled with degassed water was made to allow the access of ultrasound 
waves into the circulated blood. The angle between ultrasonic transducer and flow tube was set to 60o and 
sample volume was arranged to be located near the focal zone of the transducer. The inlet length of the tube 
between the reservoir and the site of ultrasonic transducer was sufficient (100 cm) to have a fully developed 
laminar flow in this study. A stroke rate of 20 BPM and a systole/diastole ratio of 40/60 were used for all 
measurements. 
A focused transducer with center frequency of 35 MHz was used in the measurement. The focal 
distance, bandwidth, and other characteristics of the transducer were listed in Table I. A 200-MHz 
bandwidth pulser/receiver (5900PR, Panametrics, Waltham, MA, USA) was used to drive the transducer for 
transmitting and receiving ultrasound signals at a pulse repetition frequency (PRF) of 10 kHz. The received 
signals backscattered from blood were amplified 40 dB by a built-in amplifier and filtered by a bandpass 
filter in the pulser/receiver. The PRF trigger of the pulser/receiver was used to synchronize the acquisition 
of the backscattered echoes at a sampling frequency of 2 GHz by a 8-bit analog-to-digital converter 
(PCI-5152, National Instruments, Austin, TX, USA) housed in a personal computer. For each measurement, 
a total of 2×105 A-lines of RF signal were acquired continuously (the acquired data in each measurement 
were composed of 20 s at a temporal resolution of 104 A-lines per s), in which each A-line corresponds to a 
gated window of 3.9 μs (assuming a speed of sound in blood is 1540 m/s, the window length is 
approximately 3 mm). Both backscattering and triggering signals were also on-line monitored by a digital 
oscilloscope (9350AL, LeCeoy, Chestnut Ridge, NY). A total of eight porcine blood samples from different 
animal subjects (N=8) were carried out in this study.  
 
 
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of the experimental arrangement. 
 
Parameters analysis 
Flow velocity. The flow velocity (V) was measured using a time-domain cross-correlation method 
(Jensen 1993). The algorithm used is given by the following equation: 
               ,
cos2 θT
ctV
prf
s=                  (1) 
where c is the speed of sound in blood, Tprf denotes the time period between pulse emissions (10-4 s), θ is 
the Doppler angle, and ts is time shift between successive RF signal. A 0.5-mm-long gated window from 
each A-line backscattered signal in the center of a tube was used to calculate the ts by cross-correlation 
algorithm. 
Nakagami parameter. Nakagami model has been demonstrated to be a general model of the statistics 
of ultrasonic backscattering and it is simpler to apply in tissue characterization than other statistical models 
(Shankar 2000). The PDF of the Nakagami distribution (f) calculated from the backscattered signal 
envelope (R) is given by 
     ),(
)(
2)(
)(12 2
RUe
m
RmRf
Rm
m
mm
Ω−
−
ΩΓ=    (2) 
 3
 5
envelope profiles were centralized within the tube during the acceleration phase, where the m reached its 
minimum value. Figure 6 shows the flow velocity, m, and Ω curves for 20% and 40% hematocrit RBC 
suspensions over a cycle under pulsatile flow at a peak velocity of 10 cm/s. It was very difficult to identify 
cyclic variations of the m and Ω curves in some cases. In contrast to whole blood, the spatial distributions 
of the backscattering envelope for RBC suspensions become very blunt and the values of m were close to 1 
throughout the flow cycle, as shown in Fig. 6.  
 
DISCUSSION 
Ultrasound backscattering has been used extensively to characterize RBC aggregation under steady 
flow conditions (Shung et al. 1976; Shung 1982; Yuan and Shung 1988a,b). The obtained results indicate 
that the degree of RBC aggregation depends on the hematocrit, shear rate, fibrinogen content, flow velocity, 
and turbulence in flowing whole blood (Yuan and Shung 1988a,b; Shung et al. 1992; Cloutier et al. 1996, 
1997; Wang and Shung 1999). The flow velocity and hematocrit are known to be two important 
hemodynamic parameters that affect RBC aggregation. Because RBCs are aggregated in flowing whole 
blood, the spatial distributions of RBCs under a steady flow change with the flow velocity and hematocrit 
(Huang and Wang 2007; Huang et al. 2009). However, the spatial distributions of RBCs under pulsatile 
flow are not fully understood. The following two mechanisms are currently used to explain the possible 
reasons for cyclic variations of the backscattering signal under pulsatile flow when measuring with a 
10-MHz Doppler flowmeter:  
1. The cyclic variations of the backscattering signal might be associated with the dynamics of RBC 
aggregation, because the shearing force acting on the RBC aggregates across the tube is a function 
of time over a flow cycle (Lin and Shung 1999). 
2. The acceleration and deceleration of the flow might enhance rouleaux formation because there are 
more chances for RBCs to interact to form larger rouleaux when the flow is accelerating (Paeng et 
al. 2001).  
Our previous studies have indicated that the Nakagami parameter can be used to characterize the spatial 
distributions of RBCs under a flowing condition (Huang and Wang 2007; Huang et al. 2009). For instance, 
a blunt envelope profile is associated with a higher value of m, whereas a lower value of m represents a 
backscattering envelope with a sharp profile. It is well known that the shear rate is minimal along the 
centerline of a tube and that the mean shear rate is proportional to the mean flow velocity. Consequently, 
sharp profiles were obtained near the center of the tube at a low flow velocity due to most of RBCs being 
aggregated along the tube centerline. However, the envelope profile from different time points exhibited 
different patterns over a flow cycle, indicating that the spatial variations of RBCs changed with the flow 
velocity waveform. The effect of the hematocrit on flowing blood was also investigated in order to obtain a 
better understanding of the relationship between the spatial distribution of RBCs and other blood properties. 
The spatial variation of whole blood was assumed to be due to RBC aggregation, which is affected by the 
shear rate, fibrinogen content, and hematocrit (Cloutier et al. 1996; Wang and Shung 1999; Huang and 
Wang 2007; Huang et al. 2009). In general, a higher hematocrit favors cell aggregation because this is 
influenced by the probability of cell contact (Wu and Shung 1999) – a higher probability of cell contact 
increases the chance of cells attaching to one another to form aggregates. Consequently, the profiles were 
sharper for 40% hematocrit flowing blood, lending further credence to the theory that a higher hematocrit 
causes more aggregation of flowing whole blood. However, the spatial variation of RBCs became blunter 
when the flow velocity was increased to 30 cm/s. These results are in agreement with previous studies 
indicating that a high blood flow velocity can disrupt cell aggregation in flowing blood (Yuan and Shung 
1988a; Shung et al. 1992). 
    The Ω values recorded in the present study are in good agreement with the above hypotheses that the 
cyclic variations decrease with increasing flow velocity due to a greater disruption of the formation of 
rouleaux, and that the peak of the Ω curve leading the velocity peak is attributable to the acceleration of 
flow in the systolic phase, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3. The lead time between the Ω curve peak and the 
velocity peak clearly increased with the flow velocity, which confirms that a higher flow acceleration 
increases collisions between cells to form small rouleaux, and these small changes in scatterer can be 
detected by high-frequency ultrasound. Similar results were obtained for 20% hematocrit whole blood, as 
shown in Fig. 2. The cyclic variation became smaller – corresponding to the same flow velocity for 
40%-hematocrit flowing blood – due to the aggregation being maximal for 40% hematocrit flowing blood 
(Deng et al. 1994). However, the Ω curve does not explain the spatial distributions of RBCs under pulsatile 
flow. The m curve decreased to a minimum value during the acceleration phase, during which the Ω curve 
increased to maximum, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3. This demonstrates that the profile of the backscattering 
envelope became progressively sharper during the early systole phase and then returned to a blunt profile 
 
Fig. 2 The 35-MHz Ω, m, and flow velocity waveform 
for whole blood over a cycle under pulsatile 
flow at three peak flow velocities (10, 20, and 
30 cm/s from (a) to (c)). The mean and SD are 
respectively shown as lines and error bars from 
eight different blood samples. 
 
Fig. 3 The same as in Fig. 2, except the 
measurement was performed at a 20% 
hematocrit. 
 
 
 7
 
Fig. 6 The 35-MHz Ω, m, and flow velocity waveform for 20 (a) and 40% (b) RBC suspension over a cycle 
under pulsatile flow at a peak flow velocity of 10 cm/s. Mean and SD values are shown. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
Bascom PAJ, Routh HF, Cobbold RSC. Interpretation of power changes in Doppler signals from human   
blood-in vitro studies. Proc IEEE Ultrasonic Symp. 1988:985-988. 
Cloutier G, Shung KK. Study of red cell aggregation in pulsatile flow from ultrasonic Doppler power 
measurement. Biorheology. 1993a;30:443-461. 
Cloutier G, Shung KK. Cyclic variation of the power of ultrasonic Doppler signals backscattered by 
polystyrene microspheres and porcine erythrocyte suspensions. IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng. 
993b;40:953-962. 
Cloutier G, Qin Z, Durand LG, Teh BG. Power Doppler ultrasound evalution of the shear rate and shear 
stress dependence of red blood cell aggregation. IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng. 1996;43:441-450. 
Cloutier G, Qin Z. Ultrasound backscattering from non-aggregation and aggregation erythrocytes-A review. 
Biorheology. 1997;34:443-470.  
Deng LH, Barbenel JC, Lowe GDO. Influence of hematocrit on erythrocyte aggregation kinetics for 
suspensions of red blood cells in autologous plasma. Biorheology. 1994;31:193-205. 
Huang CC, Tsui PH, Wang SH, Chiu CY, Detecting the process of blood coagulation and clot formation 
with high frequency ultrasound. J Med. Biol. Eng. 2005;25:171-177. 
Huang CC, Wang SH. Statistical variations of ultrasound signals backscattered from flowing blood. 
Ultrasound Med. Biol. 2007;33:1943-1954. 
Huang CC, Tsui PH, Wang SH. Detection of coagulating blood under steady flow by statistical analysis of 
backscattered signals, IEEE Trans. Ultrason. Ferroelec. Freq. Contr. 2007;54:435-442. 
Huang CC, Lin YH, Wang SH. The effect of kinetic properties on statistical variations of ultrasound signals 
backscattered from flowing blood. Jan. J. Appl. Phys. 2009;48: 027002-1-02002-7. 
Jensen JA. Implementation of ultrasound time-domain cross-correlation blood velocity estimators. IEEE 
Trans Biomed Eng. 1993;40:468-474. 
Lin YH, Shung KK. Ultrasonic backscattering from porcine whole blood of varying hematocrit and shear 
rate under pulsatile flow. Ultrasound Med. Biol. 1999;25:1151-1158. 
 9
Missaridis TX, Shung KK. The effect of hemodynamics, vessel wall compliance and hematocrit 
 11
Statistical Variationsof Ultrasound Signals Backscattered from Flowing Blood”, Japanese journal of 
applied physics, Vol. 48, No. 2, pp. 027002-1-02002-7, 2009. (SCI/EI, IF = 1.309, ranking=49/95). 
Conference papers 
1. Chih-Chung Huang, Ruimin Chen, Po-Hsiang Tsui, Qifa Zhou, Mark S. Humayun, and K. Kirk 
Shung (2009) “In Situ Measurements of attenuation coefficient for evaluating the hardness of cataract 
lens by a high frequency ultrasonic needle transducer” IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium 
Proceedings, Roma, Italy. (Oral, EI). 
2. Yi-Hsun Lin, Chih-Chung Huang, Shyh-Hau Wang (2009) “A quantitative assessment for the 
orientation and distribution of carbon fibers in the bipolar plate of fuel cell using high frequency 
ultrasound” IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium Proceedings, Roma, Italy. (Oral, EI). 
3. Chih-Chung Huang, Yi-Hsun Lin, and Shyh-Hau Wang (2008) “Statistical Variations of Ultrasound 
Backscattering From the Blood under Steady Flow,” 13th International Conference on BioMedical 
Engineering, Singapore. (Oral, Outstanding Paper Award). 
4. Chih-Chung Huang, Yi-Hsun Lin, and Shyh-Hau Wang (2008) “Cyclic variations of high frequency 
ultrasonic backscattering from whole blood under pulsatile flow,” Symposium of Annual Conference 
of the Biomedical Engineering Society, Taiwan. 
表 Y04 
二、與會心得 
    此次會議除了對於與自己研究相關領域的其究研究有更多的認識與了解外，也對
超音波的其它技術與應用領域有更進一步的了解。在研討會的過程中聽到了許多新的
技術與儀器的發展，例如高頻陣列式超音波影像系統商品化，大幅改善了已往高頻陣
列式超音波影像的影像品質不如高頻單陣元超音波影像的品質的缺點，並且提高其影
像掃描速度到每秒 1000 張的高頻超音波影像。另外也有學者以體外實驗的方式使用
治療性超音波照射血塊並同時使用超音波影像監測血塊變化情形，以空穴效應的原理
使血塊分解成小於紅血球的大小。在此次研討會的報告內容中發現有許多學者在研究
超音波對比劑的應用，不論是用於治療上或是將對比劑經過表面改質使對比劑可標的
要觀測的目標以加強超音波影像的對比度，使我們可由超音波影像上清楚觀察到要檢
測的目標。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
    於 11/5 日赴北京大學參加美國南加大生物醫學工程系熊克平教授與周啟發教授的
專題演講。 
 
四、建議 
    希望我們在台灣也能承辦類似的國際大型研討會，不僅對國內的研究有相當的幫 
助並且有助於提昇台灣之國際地位及觀光。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. Abstract book: 內容包含會議主辦單位介紹、座長介紹、會議場地介紹、參與研討會
的注意事項、報告者的注意事項、邀請演講的題目與講員、短期課程的介紹、此次
會議發表的論文摘要與會議流程。 
2. Program book: 內容包含會議主辦單位介紹、座長介紹、會議場地介紹、參與研討  
會的注意事項、報告者的注意事項、邀請演講的題目與講員、短期課程的介紹、會
議流程與報告者的場次、時間、地點與題目介紹。 
六、其 他 
    感謝國科會計畫的支持，讓本研究得以順利進行；亦感謝國科會提供經費協助
(97-2218-E-030-004)，讓本人得以出席此次的國際會議。 
 
 
Fig. 1 Block diagram of the experimental setup. 
 
 
SGSP26-200, SIGMA KOKI, Japan). The ultrasonic 
transducer was held on the stepper motor stage and the 
B-mode image was acquired as the transducer was moved 
linearly in the sweep scan mode. The motor stages were 
controlled by a motor controller (Model CSG-602R, 
SIGAM KOKI, Japan). A high-voltage pulser/receiver 
(Model 5900PR, Panametrics, Waltham, MA, USA) was 
used to produce a 220 V pulse and to drive the transducer 
of transmitting and receiving ultrasound signals 
backscattered from burn tissue. The received signals were 
amplified 26 dB by a built-in amplifier, and then a 
bandpass filter (Model BIF-50, Mini-Circuits, Brooklyn, 
NY) was used to remove the noise out of the main 
bandwidth. Subsequently, the radio frequency (RF) 
signals were digitized using an 8-bit analog-to-digital 
converter (Model PDA500, Signatec Inc., CA, USA) with 
a maximum sampling frequency of 500 MHz. After 
digitization, signal processing algorithms were used to 
calculated envelope, and to logarithmically compress the 
RF data. The trigger generator would encode the position 
signal of motor stage to generate a pulse to pulser/receiver 
and analog-to digital converter at designed position. Each 
scan comprised 1000 A-lines acquired at 10 μm intervals. 
The range of scan contains adjacent normal skin and burn 
skin. The image size was 10 mm × 1.3 mm for each 
B-mode image.  
 
C. Parameter analysis 
Integrated backscatter is defined as the frequency 
average of the backscattering transfer function of a 
volume of tissue over the bandwidth of the transducer 
normalized relative to that from a flat reflector. The 
integrated backscatter (IB) is given by [9]  
 
∑−=
2
1
2
2
12 )(
)(1 f
f ref
r
fS
fS
ff
IB
            (1)  
 
where 1f  and 2f  denote the lower and upper 
frequencies of the –6 dB bandwidth of the ultrasonic 
spectrum, respectively, and Sr(f) and Sref(f) represent the 
spectra of backscattered signals returned from the skin 
sample and that of an echo received from a stainless steel 
reflector in the distilled water, respectively. 
The Nakagami model is a general model of the 
statistics of ultrasonic backscattering and it is applied 
simply in tissue characterization. The PDF f(r) of the 
ultrasonic backscattered envelope (R) under the 
Nakagami distribution is given by [10]  
 
Fig. 2 The ROI of a burn skin. 
 
 
         )()exp(
)(
2)( 2
12
rUrm
m
rmrf m
mm
Ω−ΩΓ=
−
         (2) 
 
where )(⋅Γ  and )(⋅U  are the gamma function and the 
unit step function, respectively. Both the scaling 
parameter )(Ω  and Nakagami parameter (m) associated 
with the Nakagami distribution can be obtained from 
  
)( 2RE=Ω                   (3) 
and 
               
222
22
)]([
)]([
RERE
REm −=
,              (4)  
 
in which )(⋅E  is statistical mean. The scaling parameter 
means the average power of the backscattered envelope. 
The Nakagami parameter is a shape parameter of the 
Nakagami distribution.  
    For computing the above parameters, a 
region-of-interest (ROI) was selected on B-mode image, 
as shown in Fig. 2. The ROI consisted of 100 scan-lines 
and had a range of 1 mm × 0.3 mm. The data of RF 
signals for computing parameters according with the ROI 
selected on the B-mode image was extracted from original 
data set. The sliding window of the ROI was chosen to 
collect the local backscattered signals and envelopes for 
calculating the local parameters. When the size of the 
sliding window was the square with the length of a side 
equal to three times pulse length of incident ultrasound, 
the estimation of Nakagmi parameter (mw) would 
approach stable [11]. Therefore, the size of the sliding 
window was 183 μm × 183 μm. The sliding window was 
also used to calculate local scaling parameter and local 
integrated backscatter. The average integrated backscatter 
)(IB and average Nakagami parameter )(m  were 
calculated by averaging all local parameters, respectively. 
The sliding window was used to construct the Nakagami 
image and the pseudo-color was applied to display the 
Nakagami parameter map. Data analyses were performed 
on a personal computer using MATLAB (The MathWorks, 
Natick, MA, USA). 
 
 
III. RESULTS 
Fig. 3(a) shows B-mode image of the normal skin. 
Fig. 3(b)-(e) show the B-mode images of the skin for 
different burn durations at 5 s, 10 s, 15 s, and 20 s, 
respectively. The 0 s burn duration means the normal skin 
tissues. The range of brass plate being contacted with skin 
was indicated by arrowheads. The textured structures 
were apparent difference of burn skin to compare with  
