  
1 
摘要 
 
高頻譜影像在遙測領域中已經成為一種先進的技術，由於在台灣缺乏潛在的應用，目前
仍然是屬於初期發展的階段。因此，第一個主要的目標是促進在台灣高頻譜影像分析的研究。
另一個藉此把研究成果發表在專業領域的論文在學術期刊上。 第三個目標是提升國立中興大
學在遙測影像分析領域中的能見度。第四個目標是將建立國立中興大學和政府及學術機構的
合作關係，例如:森林族群的分類、犯罪偵測、國家安全、醫學影像等等。最後是對於國立中
興大學在未來成立遙測影像技術實驗室或卓越遙測中心鋪路。由於高頻譜影像遙測技術已漸
趨成熟,高頻譜影像實際應用上包括廣泛的軍事和民間應用。其中特別感興趣的是在資料中搜
索屬於小而不易發現的目標。一般而言低出現機率的目標物。這類的目標常出現在農業和生
態學方面，例如:在環境監控過程中的有毒廢棄物、在地質學方面的稀有礦物質、在毒品/走
私、軍用車輛和地雷、生物病毒、武器隱藏情報收集。這些目標大多不明顯而不易被發現，
且不能被以傳統影像處理技術所發現，但是從情報的觀點來看，這些訊息反而最重要而且是
我們最感興趣的地方。但是在偵測與識別這些目標卻是一個重大的挑戰，主要因為這些目標
所能提供的空間訊息非常有限並且一般難用數據表現。高頻譜影像則提供一個在偵測、區別、
分類、量化、認證目標物有效方法。更重要的是高頻譜影像處理技術利用頻譜的特性來分析
數據而不需要解釋數據的空間訊息。這類利用光譜的特性而沒有考慮到空間訊息處理的技術
稱為非空間高頻譜影像處理。在這個計畫中我們提出了六項目標。目標一︰非監督式的訊號
處理、目標二︰自動的擷取目標物、目標三︰自動的目標識別、目標四︰非監督式的線性光
譜分層、目標五︰資料視覺化、目標六︰即時的訊號處理，這些重要的資料處理的步驟對於
非監督式、非空間訊號處理的分析在高頻譜影像處理是非常有效的。 
 
關鍵詞: 高頻譜影像、非監督式訊號處理、自動的目標識別、分類、非空間訊號處理 
 
  
  
3 
Background and Purpose 
 Hyperspectral imaging is an emerging new technology due to recent advance and success of 
remote sensing instruments. It has been widely used in a very broad spectrum of applications 
ranging from geology, agriculture and global change to defense, intelligence and law enforcement. 
One of major advantages offered by hyperspectral sensors is the significantly improved spectral 
resolution with as many as 200 contiguous spectral bands. As a result, subtle objects and materials 
can be uncovered and extracted by hyperspectral sensors with very narrow diagnostic bandwidths 
for detection, classification, discrimination, identification and quantification. Unfortunately, many 
of these types of targets may not be identified a priori or by visual inspection. Additionally, on 
many occasions these target sources may be mixed with other material substances, some of which 
may be even embedded in a single pixel because of their size smaller than the ground sampling 
distance. Under such circumstance, they can be only detected at subpixel level and the traditional 
spatial domain (i.e., literal)-based image processing techniques may not be applicable, and also not 
effective even if they can be applied. To resolve this problem, we must rely on non-literal (i.e., 
spectral) processing techniques that can characterize and capture spectral properties of targets rather 
than their spatial properties. Therefore, several great challenges for hyperspectral imaging are (1) 
how many potential targets present in the data, (2) how to find these targets in data without prior 
knowledge, (3) how to process the extracted targets for various applications and (4) how to 
visualize the processed data to facilitate image analysis and finally (5) how to implement algorithms 
in on-board and real-time processing. Many algorithms have been developed for target recognition 
for hyperspectral image analysis. Most of them are supervised with required a priori target 
knowledge or training samples. As a result, these algorithms have limited utilization in many 
practical applications due to the fact that obtaining full knowledge of target information a priori or 
training data is extremely difficult for hyperspectral imagery, if not impossible. Sometimes, it may 
be unnecessary. This proposal investigates six tasks for unsupervised non-literal analysis for 
hyperspectral data exploitation and further develops approaches to resolving each of the 
above-mentioned issues. Task 1: Estimation for Number of Signal Sources, p is a crucial and 
critical initial step for any unsupervised non-literal hyperspectral image technique. An accurate 
value of p has significant impact on results for image analysts. Unfortunately, the issue of 
determining a correct value of p is very challenging without prior knowledge. This task investigates 
this issue and further develops various methods for finding appropriate values of p. Task 2: 
Automatic Target Extraction (ATE) is a follow-up task of Task 1 which finds, locates and 
extracts p signal sources as potential targets unsupervisedly or automatically. The signal sources of 
this type are generally referred to as endmembers, each of which is defined as an idealized pure 
signature for a spectral class. So, this task is to design and develop Endmember Extraction 
Algorithms (EEAs) that can extract targets from a blind environment. Task 3: Automatic Target 
Recognition (ATR) is developed as another alternative to Task 2 to perform ATR where the signal 
sources of this type to be extracted are generally referred to as anomalies or subpixel targets. Task 4: 
Unsupervised Linear Spectral Unmixing (ULSU) takes the results produced by Tasks 2 and 3 to 
  
5 
analysts. It includes data visualization and algorithm compendium. There will be software 
developed for data visualization which allows users to manipulate data in 3D display viewing 
machines, while computer compendium will be used to develop statistical package to analyze data 
for data visualization. Finally, the 6th task (Task 6) is a VLSI-layout study which allows candidate 
algorithms selected by Tasks 2-5 to be implemented on-board and real-time processing. Two 
approaches will be investigated, systolic arrays and Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA). Such 
VLSI feasibility study will provide a preliminary blueprint of VLSI layout for our candidate 
algorithms. Eventually, these algorithms will be fabricated as chips mounted in the on-board sensors 
to achieve fast and real-time processing with very low cost. This certainly has great potential in 
commercialization. Over the past years the PI has involved many projects supported by U.S. 
government agencies in developing various hyperspectral target detection and classification 
algorithms for reconnaissance and surveillance applications. This proposal takes advantage of our 
past experience as well as the techniques that have been or currently being developed in the PI’s lab, 
RSSIPL to accomplish the proposed project. 
 
 
Results and Discussion 
The original projects was proposed for 3 three years for my 3-year appointment as a chair professor 
in National Chung Hsing University from 8/2009-7/2012 where 6 tasks are proposed with 2 tasks 
performed in each year. Unfortunately, only the work proposed in the first year which includes Task 
1: Estimation for Number of Signal Sources and Task 2: Automatic Target Extraction (ATE) 
was funded. In this case only results performed for Task 1 and Task 2 are reported. 
 
Task 1: Estimation for Number of Signal Sources 
One of great challenges in unsupervised hyperspectral target analysis is how to determine the 
number of signal sources present in the data without prior knowledge. Target signal sources of 
interest are in the data, denoted by p for data analysis. This has been a long standing problem in 
hyperspectral image analysis and a similar issue also arises in passive array processing where 
estimation for the number of signal sources arriving at a linear array of passive sensors. A new 
concept, called Virtual Dimensionality (VD) defined as the number of spectrally distinct signatures 
in hyperspectral image data was recently developed for this purpose. In this proposed work the VD 
is further investigated. It generalizes signal sources considered by VD to a more broad sense 
including rare signal sources. In doing so, a new notion, called Intra-Band Spectral Information 
(IBSI) is introduced in (1). The signal sources of interest are then categorized by IBSI into two 
types of classes, background (BKG) and target classes according to sample statistics of IBSI where 
the BKG signal sources and target signal sources are characterized by 2nd and high-order sample 
statistics IBSI. With this interpretation the VD is made up of dimensionalities of BKG and target 
signal sources where the VD can be interpreted as the dimensionality of the target class. The most 
difficult and challenging issue that remains is to estimate the VD. The research proposed in this 
  
7 
independent component analysis (ICA) seems to be a perfect candidate for this task. It performs 
data sphering to remove the first two orders of spectral statistics in terms of ISIBSI and then 
produces a set of statistically independent components (ICs) for signal source separation. By means 
of ICA target signatures of HOS can be extracted in separate and individual ICs. These results were 
recently derived and published in (6), (7) and (8).   
 
(1). C.-I Chang, X. Jiao, Y. Du and M.-L. Chang, “A review of unsupervised hyperspectral 
target analysis,” EURASIP Journal on Advanced in Signal Processing, Volume 2010. 
(2). W. Xiong, C.-I Chang and C.-T Tsai, “Estimation of virtual dimensionality in hyperspectral 
imagery by linear spectral mixture analysis,” IEEE International Geoscience and Remote 
Sensing Symposium, Honolulu; Hawaii, July 25-30, 2010. 
(3). C.-I Chang, W. Xiong, W. Liu, C.C. Wu and C.C.C. Chen, “Linear spectral mixture 
analysis-based approaches to estimation of virtual dimensionality in hyperspectral 
imagery,” IEEE Trans. on Geoscience and Remote Sensing. (to appear) 
(4). C.-I Chang and W. Xiong, “High-order statistics Harsanyi-Farrand-Chang method for 
estimation of virtual dimensionality,” SPIE, vol. 7810, SPIE Conference on Satellite Data 
Compression, Communication and Processing VI, San Diego, CA, August 2-5, 2010. 
(5). W. Xiong and C.-I Chang, “Maximum orthogonal subspace projection approach to 
estimating the number of spectral signal sources in hyperspectral imagery,” SPIE, vol. 
7810, SPIE Conference on Satellite Data Compression, Communication and Processing VI, 
San Diego, CA, August 2-5, 2010. 
(6). Xiaoli Jiao, Unsupervised Hypoerspectral Target Detection and Classification, Department 
of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering, University of Maryland Baltimore 
County, Baltimore, MD, May 2010. 
(7). X. Jiao, Y. Du and C.-I Chang, ”Component Analysis-Based Unsupervised Linear Spectral 
Mixture Analysis for Hyperspectral Imagery,” 1st IEEE GRSS Workshop on Hyperspectral 
Image and Signal Processing - Evolution in Remote Sensing, 26-28 August, Grenoble, 
France, 2009 
(8).  C.-I Chang, X. Jiao and Y. Du, “Component-based unsupervised linear spectral mixture 
analysis for hyperspectral imagery,” IEEE Trans. on Geoscience and Remote Sensing. 
 
 
  
9 
17. C.C. Wu and C.-I Chang, “Automatic algorithms for endmember extraction,” SPIE Conf. Imaging 
Spectrometry XI, SPIE Symposium on Optics & Photonics, vol. 6302, 13-17 August 2006, San Diego, CA. 
18. C.-I Chang and M. Hsueh, “Characterization of anomaly detection for hyperspectral imagery,” Sensor Review, 
vol. 26, no. 2, pp. 137-146, 2006. 
19. H. Kwon, S.Z. Der and N.M. Nasrabadi, “Adaptive anomaly detection using subspace separation for 
hyperspectral imagery,” Optical Engineering, vol. 42, no. 11, pp. 3342-3351, Nov. 2003. 
20. W. Liu and C.-I Chang, “A nested spatial window-based approach to target detection for hyperspectral 
imagery,” IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, Alaska, September 20-24, 2004. 
21. C.-I Chang and D. Heinz, "Constrained subpixel detection for remotely sensed images," IEEE Trans. on 
Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 1144-1159, May 2000. 
22. W. Liu, X. Jiao, B. Ji, S. Yang and C.-I Chang, Chapter 4: A Study on Purdue’s Indian Pine Test Site, Chapter 4,  
Recent Advances in Hyperspectral Signal and Image Processing, edited by C.-I Chang, Trivandrum, Kerala: 
Research Signpost, India, 2006, pp. 93-139. 
23. J.A. Richards and X. Jia, Remote Sensing Digital Image Analysis, 2nd ed. Springer Verlag, 1999. 
24. R.O. Duda and P.E. Hart, Pattern Classification and Scene Analysis, John Wiley & Sons, 1973. 
25. Haykin, S., Neural Networks: A Comprehensive Foundation, 2nd ed., Prentice-Hall, 1999, Chapter 6. 
26. X. Jiao and C.-I Chang, “Unsuperviused hyperspectral image classification,” SPIE Conf. Imaging Spectrometry 
XII, SPIE Symposium on Optics & Photonics, San Diego, CA, 26-30 August, 2007. 
27.  C.-I Chang, “Multiple-parameter receiver operating characteristic analysis for signal detection and 
classification,” IEEE Sensors Journal. (to appear) 
28. C.-I Chang, H. Ren and S.S. Chiang, "Real-time processing algorithms for target detection and classification in 
hyperspectral imagery," IEEE Trans. on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, vol. 39, no. 4, pp. 760-768, April  
2001. 
29. C.-I Chang and J. Wang, Real-Time Implementation of Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGA) Design in 
Hyperspectral Imagery, US Patent, number 7,366,326, April 29, 2008. 
 
 
 
 
  
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張建禕 計畫編號：98-2221-E-005-096- 
計畫名稱：非監督式高頻譜資料開發 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被
接受或已
發表）
預期總達
成數(含實
際已達成
數) 
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位
備註（質化說明：如數個計
畫共同成果、成果列為該期
刊之封面故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇
1. H.-M. Chen, S.-Y. Chen, J. 
W. Chai, C. C.-C. Chen, Y.-C. 
Ouyang, C. T. Tsai, C.-W. 
Yang, S.-K. Lee, C.-I 
Chang, ＇An iterative 
Fisher＇s linear 
discrimanant analysis 
coupled with support vector 
machine to enhance 
classification 
performance,＇ CVGIP, 
Kaushiung, Taiwan, August 
15-17, 2010. 
2. H.-M. Chen, S.-Y. Chen, J. 
W. Chai, C. C.-C. Chen, Y.-C. 
Ouyang, C.-W. Yang, S.-K. 
Lee, C.-I 
Chang, ＇Hierarchical 
multi-class support vector 
machines,＇ CVGIP, 
Kaushiung, Taiwan, August 
15-17, 2010. 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國
內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
研討會論文 9 0 100% 
1. H.-M. Chen, S.-Y. Chen, J. 
W. Chai, C. C.-C. Chen, C.-C. 
Wu, Y.-C. Ouyang, C.-T Tsai, 
C.-W. Yang, S.-K. Lee, C.-I 
Chang, ＇Techniques for 
atutmatic magentic resonance 
image classifcation,＇ 4th 
Int. Conf. Genetic and 
Evolutional Computing, 
Shenzen, Chang, December 
13-15, 2010. 
2. Y.J. Chiou, J. W. Chai, C. 
C.-C. Chen, S.-Y. Chen, H.-M. 
Chen, Y.-C. Ouyang, W.-C. Su, 
C.-T Tsai, C.-W. Yang, S.-K. 
Lee, C.-I 
Chang, ＇Volume-based 
magentic resonance brain 
image classifcation,＇ 4th 
Int. Conf. Genetic and 
Evolutional Computing, 
Shenzen, Chang, December 
13-15, 2010. 
3. W. Xiong and C.-I 
Chang, ＇Maximum orthogonal 
subspace projection approach 
to estimating the number of 
spectral signal sources in 
hyperspectral imagery,＇ 
SPIE, vol. 7810, SPIE 
Conference on Satellite Data 
Compression, Communication 
and Processing VI, San Diego, 
CA, August 2-5, 2010. 
4. C.-I Chang and W. 
Xiong, ＇High-order 
statistics 
Harsanyi-Farrand-Chang 
method for estimation of 
virtual dimensionality,＇ 
SPIE, vol. 7810, SPIE 
Conference on Satellite Data 
Compression, Communication 
and Processing VI, San Diego, 
CA, August 2-5, 2010. 
 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
 
