 
頁 2  
  
二、計畫中文摘要 
資訊空間中自主性虛擬人的行為模擬 
在虛擬世界中建立具有類似人類行為的自主性虛擬人物是一項嚴峻的挑戰。從電腦動畫、
電子遊戲乃至於避難疏散動線規畫、空間使用評估與自動化設計，自主性的虛擬人物可以作為諸
多領域中的應用的工具，也是引起廣泛興趣的研究課題。本計畫將利用本團隊96 年度對行人移
動模式之模擬的研究成果，從行人在空間中位置移動模式應用到虛擬人的建立，並延伸出空間中
更為多樣化的行為，如站立、群聚、坐、臥等與空間設施相關的舉止活動。本研究目的在建立虛
擬人物在充滿資訊之空間中行為模式的表示模型，特別強調空間資訊以及虛擬人內在狀態是決定
其行為模式的關鍵要素。 
本研究基於以下的基本假設： 
第一，空間中充滿多不勝數之影響行為的資訊與物理條件，然而多重的影響因子可以結合
成簡單的數學模型以描述影響行為的資訊在空間中的分布模式，表達成一種隨著時間轉變的空間
力場。虛擬人感應到力場的存在而作出回應。 
第二，虛擬人的內在行為趨勢受到諸多因素交互作用的複雜影響。其總和的行為趨勢可以
用簡單的馬可夫程序機率模型描述而不失其宏觀下的真確性。此外，我們假設人群中個人的行為
差異分佈模式符合近年來複雜科學領域在研究過很多自然與人為現象後所提出之普適性的冪次
原則。本計畫的研究企圖以疊加多頻率噪音函數而形成的 Perlin noise，加入虛擬人的研究模型
中，藉著對噪音函數的頻率層級以及梯度來對所模擬的群眾對像以及空間內容加以調控，以達成
所需的模擬效果。 
  
 
頁 4  
  
1. 前言： 
在虛擬世界中建立具有類似人類行為的自主性虛擬人物是一項嚴峻的挑戰。從電腦動畫、
電子遊戲乃至於避難疏散動線規畫、空間使用評估與自動化設計，自主性的虛擬人物可以作為諸
多領域中的應用的工具，同時也是引起廣泛興趣的研究課題。 
人在空間中的行為受到各種物理環境、空間資訊以及個人的認知與目的地的影響，其相關
因子極其繁多，相互關係錯綜複雜。資訊是形塑空間的元素，人對空間的感知乃是由各種感官所
接收到的光、音、熱與氣流等資訊傳播媒介的刺激而形成。除了空間中遍佈的光線、聲音、溫度、
氣流等等環境物理特性所構成的資訊之外，在都市中，隨處可見的招牌告示與廣告看板遮蔽了街
道的視野；騎樓底下的跑馬燈與商店櫥窗不斷地播送各式各樣的訊息，取代了建築物的正面與進
口意象；在家庭中，播送資訊的電視則成為客廳的中心。透過各種媒介傳播的資訊塑造出我們對
空間的認知，進而改變我們在空間中的行為模式。資訊空間在本研究中指的是描述空間的重點即
在於其間資訊的傳播模式，以資訊分佈來描述空間，而不特別強調對實質空間的幾何與物理特徵
作詳盡的描述。人在空間中的行為模式是基於其內在行為趨勢和其於所在位置接收到的資訊兩者
的交互影響而產生的結果。可以把空間中的虛擬人視為資訊處理單元，依據其內在狀態決定其回
應外在資訊的模式，從而展現出對應的行為序列。 
 
建立虛擬人物作為研究與應用工具可以從下列三個層面加以探討。 
第一，以虛擬人物作為實驗工具，探討其在各種不同的設定與情境下與真實人物的行為舉
止的差異與相似之處，以了解其內在狀態與外在環境中之相關因子與外在表徵行為之間的關聯
性。 
第二，以虛擬人作為設計方案的設計以及評估工具，透過虛擬人的設置來模擬空間的使用
方式。 
第三，從人工生命的觀點來看，不論虛擬人是否和真實人物有近似的行為模式，虛擬人物
本身就是有意義的研究課題。對虛擬人物的研究有助於了解生命的基本構成要素，在何種條件下
具有複雜行為的生命可以產生。 
  
 
頁 6  
  
3. 研究方法 
計畫的執行過程將首先提出演算模型的構想，進行程式編寫後，在虛擬場景中進行實驗以
觀察虛擬人在場景中的行為模式。獲得初步結果後，透過實地的觀察資料的分析，利用分析結果
調整虛擬人的相關設定，以測試其是否能夠在類似的場景中再現實體世界中行人的行為模式。以
下分別就研究程序中主要研究架構分別說明。 
3-1 虛擬人定義 
本計畫針對空間中各種可能影響虛擬人行為的事物建立其資訊傳播的方式，而不以描述其
實體型像為主。本研究將人的複雜形態簡化為統一的虛擬角色，及虛擬人是所有人的綜合體。 
在文獻中，多數行人模擬的研究以視覺資訊為主，重點為再現行人於其所處位置與方向，
視覺可及之資訊，據此判斷其可能之行為，例如以空間語法主導之大部分研究（Gibson,1984；
Hillier et al, 1993; Turner and Penn, 2002)。然而根據本研究的觀察，人在環境行為過程中視覺不
是唯一資訊來源，而每個人根據其背景知識與能力不同可以採取互異的策略取得適當的空間資訊
來導引其行為。針對這個問題，我們不認為鉅細靡遺的描述真實世界的物理情境，然後盡可能的
讓虛擬人與其互動是一種可行的研究方向。（Okazaki 1993）將空間中各個活動據點視為磁極，
而將其對行人可能產生的影響表示成為磁場，行人的移動模式則根據其與所在位置之磁場強度與
方向決定。下圖為（Courty 2007）使用群眾活動資訊擷取技術分析得的來的資訊，將其表達為影
響群眾活動的空間力場，再以之應用於人群移動模式的模擬。 
 
圖 3-1 群眾活動資訊圖 
本計畫將採用類似的方法將空間中影響行為的因子表達成空間力場，由一個從空間位置對
應到一個純量或者向量的函數所定義，而整個空間的資訊將是許多力場函數所成的集合。 
  
 
頁 8  
  
序，並用以預測在足夠時間的轉換後，系統最後呈現的狀態。馬可夫轉換矩陣描述系統從一個狀
態在下個時刻轉換成其他狀態的機率。以醫院空間為例，馬可夫轉換矩陣可以描述在掛號處的行
人在下個時刻產生移動到他處（例如候診室或領藥處）的行動趨勢之機率。 
本計畫將結合Perlin noise的演算法，加入上述由馬可夫鍊與空間資訊傳播模型中，以創造
空間中虛擬人的動態模擬。應用的面向包括虛擬人的動作與行為趨勢，以及空間資訊的傳播模
式。 
3-4 實驗驗證階段 
本計畫之驗證階段將分兩實驗進行，兩次實驗皆從監控攝影機的資料紀錄空間節點在固定
時段中的人數，來取代行人移動路徑的追蹤，如果各空間節點人數呈現穩定狀態時，就可以經由
馬可夫轉換矩陣之固有值與固有向量反向計算出矩陣內部的數值，也就是描述該時段中行人移動
趨勢的機率模型。 
實驗方法是根據是每一個進行模擬的空間節點都應該可以互相連通的概念，因此描述該空
間中行人移動趨勢的馬可夫鏈應是屬於所謂的Ergodic Markov Chain，意指系統的任一狀態都有
可能在經過一或多次轉換後到達所有其他的狀態。我們也可以把行人絕不會到達的空間節點排除
在模擬之外而不會造成任何的遺憾。 Ergodic Markov Chain的一個重要特性就是這個系統最後一
定可以導致均衡的機率分布模式。而從這個最後的機率分布模式可以反推分析未知的馬可夫轉換
矩陣。 
3-4-1實驗一：都市空間行人活動 
實驗地點：台北火車站、高鐵車站與捷運地下街 
實驗方法：放聲思考口語分析 
1. 行人行為跟拍與放聲思考口語分析 
為了驗證本研究描述行人行為模式的表是模型，使用了行人跟拍與放聲思考口語分析，
針對在都市空間中行走的受試者進行分析。台北火車站、捷運與高鐵車站共構的地下通道系統是
一個複雜的都市動線系統，整合了城市中最重要的交通節點、商店街、人行動線，並連結了地面
上許多重要的都市活動標的，如百貨公司、飯店、商場。本研究選擇這一個複雜的都市空間作為
觀察實驗行人行為的場所。實驗總共分析了七位受試者。每位受試者進行兩次尋路的測試，並被
要求在測試期間對錄音機進行放聲思考，其後並有工作人員在不影響受試者行為的前提下進行錄
影跟拍，記錄受試者的行為舉止，並以之與所錄下的放聲思考進行核對。 
實驗分析的結果顯示行人在都市空間中的行為展現了具備類似結構的循環程序。每一個
循環由下列四個步驟所構成，說明如下： 
1. 資訊蒐集：觀察周邊環境，尋找有幫助或有興趣的資訊。 
2. 建構心智地圖: 將所蒐集到的資訊與既有的心智地圖整合。心智地圖的內涵包括地標的物
的空間關係、路徑、目的地，以及目前所在位置的認知。 
 
頁 10  
  
本的地方，再確認一下。 
05’56’’ 所以站前地下街的出口是在哪
呢？ 
返回出口 6：凱薩飯店。 D2 
A2/B/C2/D2 
06’36’’ 出口？站前地下街？可是我現
在在站前地下街沒錯，凱薩… 
1. 閱讀地圖。 
2. 確認現在所在位置。 
A1→B2 
圖 3-4 為將受試者的行為模式依時間軸展開，用不同方向的曲線連結四個循環步驟顯示出來
的結果。從圖中可以看出來受試者在觀察蒐集資訊並建構心智地圖後作出決定，毫不猶豫的走了
一段不短的路程，一直到某些與心智地圖矛盾的資訊出現後，出現幾個快速回圈顯示受試者處於
一種不確定的狀態，頻繁改變自身處境以蒐集所需的資訊並測試心智地圖的正確性。  
 
 
圖 3-4 四階段的循環程序（胡善晴 2009） 
上述實驗顯示出可及的空間資訊、受試者心智地圖、決策程序以及藉之以改變狀態的行動
之間有著密切的關係。一個行人可能會朝向某一個特定的標的移動，或者在都市空間中某些具有
吸引力的標的之間徘徊，無論是哪一種狀況，其決策都是基於行人內部的狀態，以及在其處境之
中所能從環境中蒐集到的資訊而定。因此在本研究的理論模型中設定行人的有限狀態乃是基於其
針對某些特定資訊模式下可能做出的反應進行設定。因此，在虛擬人的模擬過程中分為兩個部分，
分別為環境資訊的傳播，以及虛擬人內部狀態的轉換。 
3-4-1實驗二：多重空間 (某大樓八樓梯廳) 
實驗地點：某大樓八樓梯廳 
實驗方法： 
藉由監視錄影機之錄像觀察行人於多重空間時，每小時所呈現出的記錄資料，再以程式模
擬出虛擬人的行為模式。 
  
 
頁 12  
  
A A→O: 16/25 O→N: 10/24 N→H: 4/19 
圖 3-6 虛擬人出現模擬圖  
3-4-2實驗三：單一空間 (某大樓梯廳) 
實驗地點：某大樓梯廳 
實驗方法： 
將實驗空間縮小範圍於某大樓梯廳空間，將空間分割為一3*5矩陣(如圖3-5)，藉由監視錄影
機之錄像觀察每10秒鐘行人出現的位置，再將時間分為早(8-11a.m.)中(11-14 p.m.)晚(14-18 p.m.) 
三大區段並疊加，最後結果將形成具規律變化的多頻率噪音函數(Perlin noise)。 
 
圖 3-7 實驗空間設計資料-某大樓梯廳 (GAS團隊，2009) 
 
 
圖 3-8 PM12:41:01~ 12:45:00行人出現於某大樓梯廳的記錄列表 
  
 
頁 14  
  
六、 參考文獻 
Gibson, W. (1984). Neuromancer. New York: Ace Books. 
Hillier B., Penn, A., Hanson, J., Grajewski, T., & Xu, J. (1993). Natural movement: 
Or configuration and attraction in urban pedestrian movement. Environment and 
Planning B, 20, 29-66. 
Okazaki, S., and S. Matsushita (1993), A Study of Simulation Model for Pedestrian 
Movement in Architec- tural Space, International Conference on Engineering for 
Crowd Safety, 1993 
Turner A, Penn A, (2002), Encoding natural movement as an agent-based system: an 
investigation into human pedestrian behaviour in the built environment, Environment 
and Planning B: Planning and Design 29 473 – 490 
Courty, N. and T. Corpetti (2007), Crowd motion capture, Computer Animation and 
VirtualWorlds Volume 18, Issue 4-5, September - December 2007, p. 361-370 
胡善晴 (2009), “地下街尋路模型之初探”, 國立台灣科技大學建築系碩士論文 
2 S.G. SHIH, Y.H. CHEN, S.C. HU, C.Y. LIN 
 
mental maps, or simply wonder around to see if any clue of the right way 
can be found. Such information may exist in various forms. We do not need 
to reconstruct the physical environment in details to simulate pedestrian 
movement, if we are able to specify the distribution of information in space. 
In this research, we assume a generic and simple pattern over the way spatial 
information disseminates through space by means of probability and 
statistics. Besides way-finding information, some physical factors of the 
environment such as temperature and noise may also influence pedestrian 
movement. Such factors can also be regarded as spatial information 
spreading out from every position to its surroundings. Various forms of 
information can be integrated into one platform so that a model based on the 
dissemination of information can be defined to setup the environment for the 
simulation of pedestrian movement. 
A pedestrian may move towards a preplanned destination, or wonder for 
various attractions in a building or urban space. It would be difficult to 
define a representational model for human mind and derive sufficient data to 
initiate a realistic simulation. However, if we look from the macroscopic 
view at a large number of pedestrians, all kinds of specific influences to 
pedestrian behavior can be constrained into some distributional patterns of 
probability. This paper describes a model based on simulating the 
dissemination of information in space, and stochastic processes that define 
reactions of pedestrians who sense the information. The objective of the 
research is to devise a representational model, emphasizing the modeling of 
information dissemination in the space, and the internal state description of 
the virtual pedestrian. The research is based on the following assumptions. 
First, there are far too many factors for us to model in the environment that 
may influence the behavior of virtual human. However, it is possible to 
combine related factors, and define as some simple mathematical functions 
that describe the dissemination pattern of spatial information. Therefore the 
complexity of the real world can be largely simplified. Second, the 
variations of behavior of virtual humans might be large, but from the 
macroscopic view, the complex internal states of a virtual human can be 
defined with some stochastic models such as Markov process.  
2. Protocol analysis on way-finding behavior 
To test the concept of pedestrians’ moving behavior in this research, we use 
protocol analysis to study way-finding behavior in an urban area. A complex 
underground shopping area which is intersected with passages to the subway, 
train station, and some city attractions such as department stores and hotels 
was chosen as the test place for the experiment. The way-finding behavior of 
seven subjects were recorded and analyzed. Each of the subjects was 
assigned to two way-finding tasks. All subjects were asked to think aloud, 
4 S.G. SHIH, Y.H. CHEN, S.C. HU, C.Y. LIN 
 
TABLE 1. A part of the data and interpretation in protocol analysis 
Time Translated text from voice recording (in 
italic text) and observed behavior from 
video (in parenthesis) 
Interpreted behavior 
… … … 
05’54’’ (look at the sign) 
I saw the sign, which is… So the Station 
underground street should go this way. 
Collecting information 
06’15’’ (Read the map) 
Let me take a look at the map.  
I am now at Exit 2. 
Collecting information 
 
Building mental map 
06’33’’ (Look around) 
So I have to pass the train station hall all the 
way to the exit. 
(Walk) 
Decision making 
 
 
Action 
06’45’’ (Walk) 
Taipei underground steet turning right? 
Which way is correct? To the right? Or to 
the left? 
(Look around) 
Action 
 
 
 
Collecting information 
06’59’’ (Look around) 
I see the Taipei underground street 
Collecting information 
07’05’’ (Look around) 
There is a small passage, from which I can 
see the entrance of the underground street. 
Somehow it is still going down. I guess that 
the route splits underground. 
Building mental map 
07’27’’ (look around) 
I am now at Exit 13 of Taipei underground 
street. Therefore…I suppose that Tien-Chien 
Resturant should be…Wait, isn’t it the 
Taipei underground street? Or is it Chong-
Shang underground street? Am I at the 
wrong street? 
Building mental map 
 
08’11’’ (look around) 
So it is Chong-Shang underground street. I 
just saw the sign showing the direction to 
Chong-Shang underground street. 
Decision making 
08’24’’ (Turn around, walk back) Action 
08’51’’ (Walk) 
So it is not Taipei underground street. Is it 
Chong-Shang underground street? Or is it 
Station underground street? 
Action 
09’09’’ (Walk) 
Is it Station underground street, or? 
Action 
09’16’’ So I should take a look again. Collecting information 
6 S.G. SHIH, Y.H. CHEN, S.C. HU, C.Y. LIN 
 
We use the term “pheromone” to name spatial information that may 
influence pedestrian movement, due to the analogy to ants moving around 
according to the distributional pattern of pheromone. Various kinds of 
pheromone spread out on the grid, depending on the content and purpose of 
simulation. Two kinds of information are considered in this research. The 
first type of information concerning way-finding in space. Each type of 
attraction for pedestrians in the space is defined as a source of pheromone. 
The pheromone disseminates from the source to surrounding areas according 
to some specific rules that define the amount of pheromone a cell receives 
from its neighbors. A pedestrian that is moving towards the attraction would 
follow the direction that is indicated by the strongest scent of the pheromone. 
The second type of information indicates physical condition of the space. 
Temperature, noise and crowd density are examples of the kinds of 
information they might be.  
Pheromone disseminates into the surroundings in various ways, 
depending on the type of information and the type of grid cells. For example, 
we can use the shortest path algorithm to simulate the pheromone that 
represents way-finding information based on the assumption that the 
probability a pedestrian would find the right way to its destination is 
proportional to the distance of its current position and the destination. We do 
not need to simulate all the spatial characteristics regarding how the 
pedestrian finds the way if we are interested in only the macroscopic view of 
pedestrian movement. We can also use dissemination rules that comply with 
the physical law of heat transmission to simulate a map of temperature on 
the grid. 
3.2. Pedestrian 
A pedestrian is viewed as an information processing system that reacts to the 
accessible information. An agent that represents a pedestrian in the program 
is defined as a stochastic system with finite states. Each state of the agent 
represents a specific preference of the pedestrian to some attractions or 
places with desirable physical condition. Each state of the agent is associated 
to some rules that describe a preferred pattern of pheromone. The agent 
moves to reduce the difference between the preferred pattern of pheromone 
and that of the present position. When the current situation matches the 
desirable pattern, the action of the state is completed, and the agent switches 
to another state according to the specific possibility of the stochastic system. 
Markov chain is used to define the probability of state transition of an 
agent. Using Markov chain, it is possible to combine various kinds of 
pedestrians into one single representation, despite of the fact that each 
pedestrian may have different preferences and purposes. It greatly simplifies 
the simulation for we do not need to know the preferences of individual 
8 S.G. SHIH, Y.H. CHEN, S.C. HU, C.Y. LIN 
 
state stochastically with the state transition matrix of Markov chain. Agents 
in the experiments are initialized with various speeds. We assume a normal 
distribution of speeds with 40% of maximum difference in the simulated 
population. 
 
Figure 3. Simulation with 30 agents for each group with two attractions. 
Figure 3 shows a snapshot of a simulation with 60 agents divided into 
two groups of the same size. Some interesting result can be found in this 
simple experiment. First, the numbers of agents that are heading towards 
specific attractions are distributed equally regardless the initial distribution 
of the population. When the distribution of population is changed to some 
unbalanced proportion, such as all agents heading towards attraction 3 and 
zero for attraction 2, it restores to the equilibrium state within 200 steps in 
the simulation. As we can see in figure one, the population of each group is 
restored back to 15 equally. The number of agents in a group is calculated 
with the average of 100 steps. Second, we find some agents do not choose 
the shortest path, which are the horizontal lines that connect two pairs of 
attractions. The agents that walk in the peripheral area are fast moving 
agents who detour from the shortest path to over pass agents that move 
slower, or simply avoiding collision with agents that head towards the 
opposite direction. Third, in some occasions, agents with the same direction 
line up to avoid frequent collision with agents heading towards the opposite 
direction, just like prior research on pedestrian movement has shown in their 
studies (Helbing et al., 2001).  
 
Figure 4. Simulation with 60 agents in each group. 
10 S.G. SHIH, Y.H. CHEN, S.C. HU, C.Y. LIN 
 
0
20
40
60
30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
ac
co
m
pl
is
hm
en
ts
group population
agents reaching attractions
 
Figure 7. The number of agents reaching attractions in 10 steps  
With the simulation in figure 8, we tested another situation where 
positions of attractions are moved closer to each other. The numbers of 
agents heading towards attractions 0 and 1 are 18 and 12 respectively. The 
numbers of agents heading towards attractions 2 and 3 are 16 and 14 
respectively. It is obvious that not only blocked circulation may cause 
uneven distributions; shorter circulation also causes uneven distributions. 
 
Figure 8. Simulation with various distances between attractions. 
Figure 9 shows a simulation of 60 agents in a building plan with a 
corridor of 1 meter in width. There is a circulation jam in the corridor. The 
total times of agents who have reached a target attraction in 10 steps is 66. 
After the corridor is widened to 2 meters, the circulation jam is lessened and 
the number of times an agent reaches a target attraction in 10 steps increases 
to 170, as it is shown in figure 10. The experiment shows that a designer can 
modify the design while the simulation is running, and see the effect of the 
modification very soon after the modification. 
12 S.G. SHIH, Y.H. CHEN, S.C. HU, C.Y. LIN 
 
cameras were installed in the clinic to monitor the space. The floor area of 
the clinic is divided into seven zones according to their usage. Figure 12 
shows the plan dissected into zone A to zone G.  
 
Figure 12. Zone A to Zone G in the floor plan of the clinic 
The numbers of pedestrians that visit each zone within every 10 second time 
span were counted. Table 2 shows a part of the observed data. Figure 13 
shows the picture taken from the camera with boundaries of zones marked 
with dash lines.  
 TABLE 2. Number of people visiting each zone within 10 second spans 
Time Zone A Zone B Zone C Zone D Zone E Zone F Zone G 
18:53:20 1 0 1 1 2 1 6 
18:53:30 0 0 1 1 2 1 6 
18:53:40 2 1 1 1 0 1 5 
18:53:50 0 2 0 1 0 0 8 
18:54:00 0 0 0 0 1 2 8 
18:54:10 3 0 0 0 0 2 9 
18:54:20 0 0 2 1 0 0 8 
 
 
