                                                              
 
2
The MFS approximates the solution by fundamental solutions and is very powerful for solving 
homogeneous partial differential equations [6]. Once the inhomogeneous equation is considered, the MFS 
has to cooperate with other meshless schemes. This numerical procedure is called the two-stage MFS, 
while the homogeneous and particular solutions are solved separately. The particular solution can be 
approximated by radial basis functions [7], trigonometric function [8], Chebyshev polynomial [8] etc., 
when the homogeneous solution is obtained by the MFS. Till now, the two-stage MFS can solve the 
Poisson equation [9], Helmholtz equation [10], etc. Its applications are limited to linear partial differential 
equation with constant coefficients. 
 
In 2008, Chen et al. [11] proposed the one-stage MFS for solving the elliptic partial differential 
equation with variable coefficients. The proposed method extends the MFS to more general partial 
differential equations. Besides, the mathematical works can be reduced greatly since the fundamental 
solution and radial basis function in their approach only satisfy the Laplace equation. Moreover, they 
extended this one-stage MFS to time-dependent convection-diffusion equations [12]. They numerically 
proved that this method can obtain very accurate results by using few nodes. Therefore, it is worth to 
extend this meshless method for more complicated problems and real engineering applications.  
 
In this project, we will develop the one-stage MFS for fluid flow problems which are governed by 
the velocity-vorticity formulation. The meshless method will solve the time-dependent vorticity transport 
equation and velocity Poisson equations. We will test some factors that might influence on the accuracy 
of the results, such as the number of nodes, the time increment, the location of source etc. We believed 
that the works in this project will provide better understanding of this promising meshless method. 
 
2.2 Governing Equations 
The two-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations are shown as follows: 
 0,u v
x y
∂ ∂+ =∂ ∂ ( )1  
1 ,
Re
u u u pu v u
t x y x
∂ ∂ ∂ ∂+ + = − + Δ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ( )2  
 1 ,
Re
v v v pu v v
t x y y
∂ ∂ ∂ ∂+ + = − + Δ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ( )3  
where u  and v  are the x-directional and y-directional velocity, respectively. p  is the pressure and 
Re  is the Reynolds number. It is also known as the primitive-variable formulation. Δ  is the Laplacian 
operator. In most cases, the conditions for pressure can not be expressed explicitly. Although some 
numerical schemes are developed to solve this formulation, it still leads to a problem by adopting the 
primitive-variable formulation.  
     
    By introducing the definition of vorticity, ω , and using some mathematical transformations, the 
primitive-variable formulation can be transformed to the following formulation:  
 1 ,
Re
u v
t x y
ω ω ω ω∂ ∂ ∂+ + = Δ∂ ∂ ∂ ( )4  
                                                              
 
4
located out of the computational domain. j jr x x= −G G  is the distance between nodes. in  and bn  are 
numbers of interior nodes and boundary nodes. The typical distributions of interior, boundary and source 
nodes are shown in figure 1. 
 
Γ
∂Ω
Ω
 
Fig. 1 The schematic diagram of nodal distributions for interior (star), boundary (solid circle) and source 
(empty circle) nodes. 
 
   From the above figure, the nodes are randomly distributed which is the great advantage of the 
meshless method, so it can reduce the effort of mesh generation. Besides, it should be emphasize that the 
radial basis function satisfies the Poisson equation. 
   ( ) ( ) ,r rφΔΦ = ( )11  
where ( )rφ  is another radial basis function. From previous researches [7], there are many choices for 
the radial basis function, ( )rφ , due to the Laplace equation. The differentiations of the variable can be 
obtained by differentiating directly the solution expressions. 
 
   By enforcing the satisfactions of the governing equation in interior nodes and the boundary condition 
in boundary nodes, the solution expression are substituted into the governing equation and boundary 
condition. It leads to the following matrix system. 
  
( )
( )
11 12
21 22
f x
g x
α
β
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤Σ Σ ⎧ ⎫ ⎪ ⎪=⎨ ⎬ ⎨ ⎬⎢ ⎥Σ Σ ⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭⎣ ⎦ ⎩ ⎭
G
G ( )12  
  where ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )11 1 ~ 1 ~ij iji i i ij i bG Ga x b x c x G i n j nx y
ρ ρ ρ∂ ∂Σ = + + = =∂ ∂
G G G  
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )12 1 ~ 1 ~ij ijij i i i ij i ir rr a x b x c x r i n j nx yφ
∂Φ ∂ΦΣ = + + + Φ = =∂ ∂
G G G  
                                                              
 
6
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )1 1 1
1 1
b in n
n n n u u
h p j j j j
j j
u x u x u x G rα ρ β+ + +
= =
= + = + Φ∑ ∑G G G ( )18  
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )1 1 1
1 1
b in n
n n n v v
h p j j j j
j j
v x v x v x G rα ρ β+ + +
= =
= + = + Φ∑ ∑G G G ( )19  
 
The solutions of velocity at (n+1)th time step can be obtained by collocating the governing equation 
and the boundary condition simultaneously. Then the boundary condition for vorticity at (n+2)th time step 
will be calculated from the solutions of velocity. 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )1 12
1 1
.
b in nn n j j j jn v u v u
j j j j
j j
G G r rv u
x y x y x y
ρ ρω α α β β
+ +
+
= =
⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂Φ ∂Φ∂ ∂ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟= − = − + −⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠
∑ ∑  ( )20  
 
   The evolutionary process can be obtained by repeatedly solving the vorticity and velocity until the 
terminal time is achieved. Therefore, this procedure, proposed in this project, is a meshless numerical 
scheme for solving the velocity-vorticity formulation of the Navier-Stokes equations. 
 
2.4 Numerical Results 
In this section, the efficacy of the proposed scheme for solving the velocity-vorticity formulation will 
be validated by a numerical example. It is known that the location of source in MFS will influence the 
accuracy of the solution. Therefore, we use the following formula to locate the source in MFS: 
( ) ,b b b cp= + −x x x x ( )21  
where bx  and cx  are the coordinates for boundary point and geometric center. p  is a parameter 
which should be assigned before the simulation. Hence, the location of source in MFS can be determined 
by a single scalar parameter. We will examine the influence of p  on the accuracy of the solutions in the 
following tests. In order to accurately calculate the error of the results, we use another set of points, which 
is different from the original points in calculation of coefficients, to calculate the absolute error. Then, we 
will find the maximum absolute error (MAE) from the nt  testing points.  
 
In this example, the computational domain is chosen as a unit square. For validating the proposed 
scheme for transient flow field, the following analytical solutions are used: 
( ) ( ) ( )2 22 2, , exp cos sin ,Rey x y x yx y
k k k
u x y t t k x k y
k k
⎛ ⎞− += −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟+ ⎝ ⎠
( )22  
( ) ( ) ( )2 22 2, , exp sin cos ,Rex yx x yx y
k kkv x y t t k x k y
k k
⎛ ⎞+= −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟+ ⎝ ⎠
( )23  
( ) ( ) ( )2 2, , exp cos cos .
Re
x y
x y
k k
x y t t k x k yω ⎛ ⎞+= −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
( )24  
 
                                                              
 
8
 
In order to see the consistency of the proposed scheme, we used three sets of points to calculate the 
results. In Fig. 2(b), 20, 28 and 36 boundary points are used while 25, 49 and 81 interior points are 
adopted in this test. It can be found that the better solutions can be obtained by using more points. We also 
can find that the results for the last two sets of nodes are indifferent. Hence, it can prove that the MFS 
converges vey fast by only adopting few points. Since the profiles of maximum absolute error for 
y-directional velocity and for vorticity are very similar to that for x-directional velocity, we only show the 
results for U-velocity. The consistency and fast convergence of MFS for solving the velocity-vorticity 
formulation can be validated in this figure. 
 
Since the flow field is time-dependent, different time increments are used to depict the stability in Fig. 
3(a). In this figure, the time increments are chosen as 0.4, 0.2 and 0.1. The better results can be acquired 
by using smaller time increment. Since the time derivative term is discretized by the finite difference 
method, the error from time discretization is proportional to time increment. By observing Figs. 2(b) and 
3(a), the time increment is the most important factor that dominates the error of the proposed MFS. This 
remark is the same as the previous study [12]. Besides, the stability of the proposed MFS is revealed in 
this figure. 
 
In Fig 3(b), we test the influences of the location of source on the accuracy of the results. Three 
different parameters are used to locate the source in Fig. 3(b). The numerical results are almost the same 
when p  is equal to 0.5, 1 and 2. In this studying range, the numerical results will not influenced by the 
location of source.  
 
2.5 Conclusions 
From the numerical tests, the MFS can successfully solve the incompressible viscous flow field, 
governed by the velocity-vorticity formulation of the Navier-Stokes equations. The velocity-vorticity 
formulation includes the vorticity transport equation and the Poisson equation for velocity. Hence, we 
adopted the MFS, which is one of the most promising methods, to deal with these three elliptic partial 
differential equations.  
 
The MFS used in this study utilizes the fundamental solution and RBF, correspond to the Laplacian 
operator; hence, it only cost few mathematical work. There are several parameters that might affect the 
accuracy of the solution. Based on our numerical tests, we can conclude: 
1. The time increment is the most important factor that influences the accuracy of the results remarkably. 
2. The consistency and stability of the proposed MFS is kept by adopting different number of points and 
different time increments. 
3. The solutions of MFS converge very fast by using few points. 
4. The locations of source in the studying range have mere influence on the accuracy. 
5. The evolutionary process of the fluid flow problem can be simulated accurately by the MFS. 
This approach is meshless and integral-free; hence, it is very attractive for real engineering problems. 
From the results, we believe that the method can be applied to more realistic flow field problems. 
