 1 
摘要 
模具是製造業重要的基礎，更是在產品生產過程中扮演關鍵角色，如何在時限內讓
產品快速上市一直是模具廠引領期盼的。然而模具與成型技術牽涉甚廣、有經驗的人才
與專家難求，絕非單純投資硬體設備所能達到成效；一般而言模具人才需要具備相當豐
富的模具與成型經驗，不但培養不易又流動快速，如何降低人才流動所造成的企業資產
虧損也是十分迫切的問題。 
基於 CAD/CAM 軟體在模具設計與製造過程的關鍵角色，本計畫目的在於建構一
套以 CAD/CAM 為中心的模具協同估價/設計與製造之數位化整合系統，將模具業的工
作模組化，藉由製造估價模組將模具價格透明化並且能快速訂出合理的報價為訴求，協
同設計模組將產品開發週期大幅縮短，生產製造模組將加工規劃與排程最佳化以加速模
具的後製加工。各模組皆可獨立運行或整合運用，並將知識管理應用在模具知識經驗
上，除了讓設計流程更完善，也能輔助人才快速的培養，並且降低模具人才流失對企業
的影響；經由此系統的開發與典範模具廠實務的結合，能夠大幅降低模具生產週期與加
強模具廠管理的便利性，以提升國內模具產業在全球的競爭力。 
關鍵詞：模具設計/製造、知識管理、系統整合、協同平台、生產週期 
 
Abstract 
Mold technologies have been always the foundation of manufacturing industries; in other 
words, it is the key factor in the production process of good product. A good-quality mold can 
reduce cost, shorten cycle time, improve quality, and increase molding life, as such, related 
technologies has been taken serious attention. However, the technologies and knowledge must 
be accumulated through years of training and experience. Due to the fact that the asset of 
good engineers is very difficult to keep, an e-platform with knowledge management to keep 
and accumulate related technologies is absolutely needed. 
This project is to build a collaborative mold quoting, design and manufacturing 
e-platform by direct integration with the CAD/CAM software. The quoting module should 
provide transparent price for the mold design and manufacturing. The quoting procedure will 
be easy and the related price information should be transparent, reasonable, and profitable. 
The design module should shorten the design process by providing standard components, 
standard procedures, and knowledge management. The manufacturing module will optimize 
the planning and scheduling processes of mold components. The module will accelerate the 
manufacturing process and have fully control of more than 200 components for each mold. 
Three modules will be seamlessly integrated together; however, each one could work 
independently. In addition, the knowledge management module will digitize and accumulate 
the dedicated experiences and technologies to support the platform. The successful of this 
customizable system should promote the competition edge of mold and molding industry. 
Keywords: Mold Design/Manufacturing, Knowledge Management, System Integration, 
Collaborative Platform, Production Cycle 
 3 
(3) 製造管理模組 
a. 安排模具加工排序，提昇產能，協助企業快速且正確的回應客戶交期及生產狀態。 
b. 隨時掌握各模具生產進度、成本狀況，避免交貨時間延誤。 
c. 即時了解模具和零件的位置，減少時間流失。 
d. 資訊化管理系統，提升管理效益，節省人力成本和降低管理成本。 
e. 可客製化的設計，可以導入不同廠家的設備與管理流程。 
f. 提供一個與協力和外包廠家之協同工作平台，以確實、有效地管理模具之生產進度。 
三、 研究方法 
A. 專案流程 
導引系統的運作規則主要是依附於專案資料庫，利用專案資料庫可以儲存導引系統
的使用紀錄，並且控制導引流程的執行順序；專案資料庫依照所儲存的內容可以分成三
層如圖一所示，專案第一層主要記錄專案的基本資料，如專案名稱、使用模組、專案期
限、專案狀態等；第二層紀錄專案所使用模組內各子模組的進行狀態；第三層則紀錄專
案進行的子模組內各步驟的狀態，如各步驟的執行時間及最後執行的步驟。三層專案架
構的好處是可將專案資料做分級控管，依照需求類別調閱相關資料而不是將所有資料全
部搜尋出來再做篩選，而且把專案做分層控管對之後在做專案資料探勘時會更有條理更
明確，抓取資料也會更簡單。 
而在導引系統的使用上，我們將使用者依照不同的屬性給予不同級別的權限，如：
主管、工程師、客戶、訪客等，根據登入權限的差別，給予相對應的功能，或者做行為
上的限制，如圖二所示，不同的登入者所看到的系統介面是不一樣的，如此一來除了可
以增加系統資料的保密性外，也可以讓登入者了解本身在系統中可以做哪些事情而不會
無從下手。 
B. 引導流程架構 
開發引導流程架構主要目的在於能夠快速應用於各個模組的設計引導，讓客製化的
工作不再是 Page by Page 的鏈結與維護，而能透過單一資料庫來統一管理與維護，如圖
三所示，以統一的樣版頁面來呈現不同的設計流程，達到介面統一化與標準化。 
由於是透過資料庫的資料來呈現整個引導流程，因此在資料從資料庫輸出時，透過
程式的處理讓每個引導設計流程都能針對其 SOP（Standard Operation Process）做強制導
引的功能，如圖四圖五所示，當未完成第一個步驟時，是不允許跳到後續的步驟進行設
計的，因此能夠確保設計者能依公司要求的設計要求進行，減少不必要的人為錯誤。 
四、 研究進度與成果 
A. 專案流程 
導引系統的運作是以專案為基礎，利用專案資料庫儲存導引系統的使用紀錄，達到
流程管制的功能，圖六為建立專案的介面，在建立專案時須輸入專案的基本資料、設定
工作期限，並且可以查詢內部人員工作分配狀態，管理者可以作適當的人員分配。此外
提供流程選擇，可以彈性選擇專案流程面板。 
圖七為專案流程介面，藉由專案資料庫的記錄，可以掌握專案中各流程的狀態，並
且依照專案人員分配情況管控工作執行者，限定設計者只能夠點選本身被分配到的工
作，且每個流程也需等待前置流程完工後才可執行，如此一來對於專案的進度的管控與
責任分配就能夠明確的表達，進而作執行上的控管，讓設計者依標準流程作業，減少作
業上的疏忽。 
專案管理介面提供給有權限的管理員做所有專案的管控，包含查詢、刪除、凍結與
解凍能力，而一般使用者也可在此介面中查閱自己的工作記錄；如圖八所示，在專案管
 5 
[3] K. Cheng, D. K. Harrison, P. Y. Pan,“Implementation of Agile Manufacturing—An AI 
and Internet Based Approach”, Journal of Materials Processes Technology, 76. 
pp.96-101,1998. 
[4] S. F. Chan, C. K. Law, K. K. Chan,“Computerised Price Quoting System for 
Injectionmould Manufacture”, Elsevier Ltd, 2003. 
[5] M. Li, J. Wang, Y. S. Wong, K. S. Lee,“A Collaborative Application Portal for the 
Mould Industry”, Int. J. Production Economics, Vol.96, pp.233–247, 2005. 
[6] R. S. Lee, Y. M. Chen, C. Z. Lee,“Development of A Concurrent Mold Design 
System:A Knowledge-Based Approach”, Computer Integrated Manufacturing Systems, 
Vol.10,pp.287-307, 1997. 
[7] http://www.microsoft.com/taiwan/vstudio/ 
[8] G. Q. Huang, S. W. Lee, K. L. Mak,“Collaborative Product Definition On the Internet: A 
Case Study”, Journal of Materials Processing Technology, Vol.139, pp.51–57, 2003. 
[9] H. B. Qiu, C. X. Li,“Conceptual Design Support System in A Collaborative Environment 
for Injection Moulding”, Int J Adv Manuf Technol, Vol.24, pp.9–15, 2004. 
[10] J. Chung, K. Lee,“A framework of Collaborative Design Environment for 
InjectionMolding”, 2002. 
[11] Y. M. Chen, J. J. Liu,“Cost-Effective Design for Injection Molding”, Elsevier Science 
Ltd, Exeter, Engl, 1999. 
[12] E. Shehab, H. Abdalla,“An Intelligent Knowledge-Based System for Product Cost 
Modelling”, Springer-Verlag London Ltd, 2002. 
[13] H. Wang, X. H. Zhou, X.-Y. Ruan,“Research on Injection Mould Intelligent Cost 
Estimation Systemand Key Technologies”, Springer-Verlag London Ltd, 2003. 
[14] K. S. Chin, T. N. Wong,“Knowledge-Based Evaluation for the Conceptual Design 
Development of Injection Molding Parts”, Pergamon Press Inc, Tarrytown, NY, 
USA,1996. 
[15] A. P. Sage,“Manufacturing Systems Engineering and Management”, Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics, Vol.1, pp.1-9, 1996. 
[16] C. Jangha, H. Cheng,“Manufacturing-driven Design”, Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics,Vol.5, pp.4436-4441, 1997. 
[17] L. Horvath, J. A. T. Machado, I. J. Rudas, G. P. Hancke,“Application of Part 
Manufacturing Process Model in Virtual Manufacturing”, Industrial Electronics, 
Vol.3,pp.1367–1372, 1999. 
[18] E. Muller, P. Dadam, J. Enderle, M. Feltes,“Tuning An SQL-based PDM System in A 
Worldwide Client/Server Environment”, Data Engineering, pp.99-108, 2001. 
[19] D. A. Hodges, L. A. Rowe, C. J. Spanos, “Computer Integrated 
Manufacturing”,Electronic Manufacturing Technology Symposium, pp.1-3, 1989. 
[20] S. M. Chung, S. B. Jesurajaiah,“Schemaless XML Document Management in 
Object-oriented Databases”, Information Technology: Coding and Computing, 
Vol.1,pp.261-266, 2005. 
[21] T. Kondoh, T. Suzuki,“Using 3D-CAD Systems for Mechanical Design 
Innovation”,Engineering Management Conference, Vol.3, pp.954–957, 2004. 
[22] N. H. Chao,“The Application of a Knowledge-based System to Design for 
Manufacture”,Robotics and Automation, Proceedings, Vol.2, pp.182-185, 1985. 
[23] W. S. Han, K. Y. Whang, Y. S. Moon,“A Formal Framework for Prefetching Based on 
the Type-Level Access Pattern in Object-Relational DBMSs”, Knowledge and Data 
Engineering, Vol.17, pp.1436-1448, 2005. 
[24] R. P. Broadwater, J. C. Thompson, S. Rahman, A. Sargent,“An Expert System for 
Integrated Protection Design with Configurable Distribution Circuits”, Power 
Delivery,Vol.9, pp.1115-1121, 1994. 
[25] R. A. Malloy,“Plastic Part Design for Injection Molding”, Hanser, New York, 1994. 
 7 
 
圖六  專案建立界面 
 
圖七  專案流程控管 
 
圖八  專案管理-專案列表 
 
圖九  專案管理-專案流程列表 
Detail
 
圖十  專案管理-流程步驟列表 
 
圖十一  帳號管理介面 
 
圖十二  新增資料介面(可給定基本權
限) 
 
圖十三  更新資料介面 
 9 
 
圖二十二  插入 mapkey 功能 
 
圖二十三  流程樣版編輯 
七、 計畫成果自評： 
本計畫預期成果： 
A. 參與人員之訓練方面 
a. 實際建構出一個結合模具估價、設計導引及製造管理的整合系統。 
b. 透過網際網路進行系統操控，可以擺脫空間的限制，上網即可運作。 
c. 將業者意見納入系統考量，使系統更有實用性，更能達到實際應用的效益。 
d. 對於重複性高且單調繁瑣的工作，設計導引模組可完全取代，讓設計者專心致力於設計
工作，大幅的『降低設計時間』。 
e. 設計導引可將設計過的數據及圖檔資料予以保存，以利未來的設計者『參考使用前人寶
貴的設計經驗』。 
f. 可客製化的設計，可以滿足不同專業模具廠的需求，可以有效地縮短推廣的時間。 
g. 藉由知識管理讓模具設計製造能夠擁有更佳的導引輔助，除了能讓開發人員更方便的搜
尋所需知識，亦可當成新進人員最佳的訓練教材。 
B. 學術及應用成果 
本計畫預計完成之具體學術貢獻如下 
a. 以CAD/CAM 軟體為中心之設計與製造模組的新架構。 
b. 可客製化網站架構的設計與開發。 
c. 網站修改、維護與管理的最佳化分析。 
在這科技發展迅速的時代裡，本系統的應用可以幫助快速設計，及新進人員的培訓，累
積老師傅的專業觀念，協助開發人員更容易上手，減短設計開發時間，幫助企業更迅速開發
出更多，更優良的產品，使模具產業能更蓬勃發展，協助我國模具產業能在國際舞台上，發
光發熱。 
整體而言，此會議提供與會人士了解研究成果與新的研究趨勢外，與會人士也可建
立溝通管道，彼此交換心得與資料，對於研究的交流大有助益。 
 
附件： 
liquid and the gas. 
Experimental Design 
In order to understand the influence of the different 
surface roughness on the flowing of the microfluidic, 
three different kinds of manufacturing methods are used 
to make the experimental models with same interval 
heights but different roughness and carry out the flowing 
experiments. The experiments are proceeded under the 
room temperature (25 C° ) and are recorded through the 
microscope (CCD image sensor). 
1. Experimental Equipments 
The experimental equipments including torpedo 
level, silicone oil reservoir, acrylic bottom plate, acrylic 
microchannel model, CCD and computer are shown in 
Figure 4.  The geometry of acrylic experimental model 
is shown in Figure 5, and the microchannel size of 
experimental model is 30mm×20mm×0.15mm in this 
study. 
2. Manufacture of Microchannel[6][7][8] 
To study the impact of the different surface 
roughness on the flowing of the microfluidic, this study 
uses acrylic materials (PMMA) in different 
manufacturing methods to make the experimental models.  
For having microchannels with different roughness levels 
after processing, the CO2 laser , micro-grinding machine 
and SU-8 process have been chosen in order to separately 
make the detailed tangent plane, the precise tangent plane, 
and the smooth tangent plane of the acrylic flat channels 
as show in Table 1.  In addition, the bottom plate of each 
experiment module is finished in the same manufacturing 
methods in order to get the same roughness value around 
the surface of the microchannels.  
Silicone oil (MS 1000, GE Toshiba Silicones Co., 
Ltd.) is used as microfluidic in this study.  The material 
properties of density, viscosity, and surface tension shown 
in Table 2 are provided by the manufacturer.  Due to the 
hydrophilic silicone oil in the PMMA surface, all the 
equilibrium contact angles of three different processing 
materials are 2 degree. 
3. Experimental Method 
The temperature is controlled at room temperature 
during experimental process. The microchannel model is 
placed on the bottom plate and the center of microchannel 
side is aimed at the center of silicone oil reservoir side.  
The silicone oil is added into the reservoir for the 
designated height. The baffle is pulled out to let silicone 
oil flow into microchannel. 
During experimental processes of each model, the 
silicone oil in the reservoir is added up to different 
heights to observe how the gravity influences the flowing. 
The heights ( H ) of the silicone oil in the reservoir are 0, 
1, 2, 3, 4 and 5cm. To ensure the accuracy and 
reproduction of the experimental results, each setting of 
experiment is executed more than five times and the 
experimental process is recorded by the video microscope.  
The errors of each model are required to be under 10% of 
the average filling time. However, most of the 
experimental results are within a range of 5%. It means 
the experimental results are reasonable and acceptable. 
Results and Discussions 
This study has three different processing surface 
models, and Figure 6 shows that the surface is rough after 
laser processing. Some cracks are so small that the 
silicone oil may not fully collapse and fill the surface; 
namely it forms a composite surface.  Through 
micro-grinding machining process and SU-8 process, the 
surface of the model is smoother and flatter.  Therefore, 
the liquid completely contacts the surface of the model 
and forms wetted surface. 
Figure 7 show the curves of flowing time of different 
roughness models when the heights of the reservoir are 
from 0 to 5cm.  The three curves respectively represent 
the average flowing distance of each period in five 
experiments.  The relations between the flowing time 
and distance of the microfluidic in the microchannel are 
drawn as a diagram of curves.  In the 
diagram, , ,  are used as symbols of carbon 
dioxide laser, microgrinding machining process and SU-8 
process. As to the corresponding curves, they are drawn 
with the least square method.  Those results show that, 
with the increase of gravity driving force (the heights of 
the reservoir H ), the flowing time is shorter, and the 
difference in the flowing time among different roughness 
models is bigger. 
Table 3 shows that the flowing time in the laser 
processed microchannel is the shortest among all 
microchannels in this experiment, and the flowing time in 
the SU-8 microchannel is the longest.  That is, the 
greater the roughness value is, the faster the flowing 
speed is in the microchannel.  This answers to Wenzel 
and Cassie’s contention; namely the surface is hydrophilic, 
the rougher the surface is, the more hydrophilic it is. The 
flowing is strengthened, therefore, the silicone oil flows 
the fastest in the laser processed microchannel which has 
the largest roughness value. 
Besides, Figure 8 shows the flow-front of three 
different roughness models. It shows that flow-front in 
SU-8 microchannel is the smoothest and the most 
symmetrical. On the other hand, flow-front in laser 
processed microchannel is the roughest and the most 
unsymmetrical because of the larger roughness value. 
Conclusions 
From the experimental results, it can be summarized 
as follows: 
1. When the silicone oil reservoir height is higher, the 
flow time becomes less. 
2. When the surface roughness increased, the velocity of 
microfluidic is faster.  In other word, the flow times is 
Page 2 of 5
  
 
(a) Wenzel Model (b) Cassie Model  
Figure 3.  Surface Roughness. Figure 4.   Experimental Equipments. 
 
 
   
(a) Experimental Model (b) CO2 Laser Model 
(c) Micro-Grinding 
Model (d) SU-8 Model 
Figure 5.  Experimental Model Geometry. 
 
3D 
  
 μm μm μm 
Cross 
Section 
   
 (a) CO2 Laser Process (b) Micro-Grinding Process (c) SU-8 Process 
Figure 6.  Microchannel Surface Condition by Different Kinds of Processes. 
Page 4 of 5
THE COMPARISONS OF IC PACKAGES WITH/WITHOUT UNDERFILL ON THE 
THERMO-MECHANICAL CHARACTERISTICS 
H. C. Tsai1, W. R. Jong2,3 and S. H. Peng2
1Dept. of Mechanical Eng., Minghsin University of Science and Technology, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan 
2Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung-Li, Taiwan 
3R&D Center for Membrane Technology, Chung-Yuan Christian University Chung-Li, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
This research uses the validated finite-element 
analyses to study the thermo-mechanical behaviors of the 
96.5Sn-3.5Ag, 95.5Sn-3.8Ag-0.7Cu lead-free solders and 
the classical 63Sn-37Pb solder bumped wafer level chip 
scale package on PCB assemblies subjected to a novel 
temperature cycle test.  It can be seen that the same scale 
to the WLCSP and the WLCSP with underfill, the 
difference of the equivalent total strain range exceed an 
order of magnitude for all the three solder joints. 
Introduction 
On the complicated manufacturing processes of 
FCOB or WLCSP, the reliability of solder bumped IC 
chip on substrate and/or PCB has been confirmed by 
many researchers through thermal cycling tests, 
mechanical tests and computational modeling [1]-[7].  
For examining the elastic-plastic-creep behaviors of 
solder bumped WLCSP on PCB assemblies, a novel 
temperature cyclic loading will be applied in this study.  
The finite element software is used to investigate the 
characteristics of the equivalent elastic-plastic-creep 
strains with lead solder joint of 63Sn-37Pb and two 
lead-free solder joints of 96.5Sn-3.5Ag and 
95.5Sn-3.8Ag-0.7Cu, respectively. 
Theory of Analysis 
Due to the different CTE properties among the chip, 
solder joint, pad and PCB in IC packages, the thermal 
induced stresses and strains are generated during the 
temperature cyclic loading.  The interface region lain in 
between solder joint and pad will cause higher strain 
concentration and accumulate serious inelastic strains 
over the temperature cycles.  Moreover, the equivalent 
stress-strain analysis is required to characterize the 
multi-axial state of stress and strains in the solder joints 
during temperature cycling.  The yield condition for 
solder joint obeys the von Mises yield criterion and the 
equivalent stress and equivalent strain forms are 
respectively shown in Equations (1) and (2). The 
relationships of the effective shear stress and shear strain 
to the equivalent stress and strain are respectively given 
by Equations (3) and (4) [2]. 
1/22
13
2
32
2
21 ])-()-()-[(
2
1  ++=eqv  (1) 
1/22
13
2
32
2
21 ])-()-()-[(
2
1  ++=eqv  (2) 
eqv
3
1~ = (3) 
eqv 3
~ = (4) 
To describe the secondary creep behavior of solder 
joints, two steady-state creep constitutive laws are used in 
this study.  The Garofalo-Arrhenius hyperbolic sine law, 
shown in Equation (5), is chosen to describe the behavior 
of dominant secondary creep. 
)/exp()][sinh( RTQBA ncr = & (5) 
Where cr& is the creep strain rate )/1( s , A and B
are the creep constants of material,  is the applied 
stress, n is the stress exponent, Q is activation energy for 
creep deformation process, )/510617.8( KeVR ×= is 
Boltzmann’s constant, and T is the absolute temperature. 
Moreover, the Norton power law creep equation can be 
also used to model the steady-state creep rate as a 
function of temperature and has the form in Equation (6). 
)/exp( TRQA G
n
cr = & (6) 
Where )/008314.0( KmoleKJRG 	= is the 
universal gas constant, other constants are the same as 
mentioned in Equation (5). 
CAE Simulation 
1. Geometrical Model and Meshed Model of 
FEM 
On the WLCSP, the dimension of the chip is 
)(508.099 3 heightwidthlengthmm ×××× and the PCB is 
)(575.11616 3 heightwidthlengthmm ×××× as shown in 
Figure 1.  Figure 2(a)-(b) shows the cross-sections of the 
chip and PCB assembly with the pad and lead-free solder 
joints.  It can be seen that the thickness of the upper 
copper pad is 0.008 mm and the lower one is 0.0178 mm .
The height of solder joint is 0.1524 mm , upper and lower 
diameters are the same 0.3048 mm , which is made of 
Page 1 of 5
into the WLCSP.  With the exception of the underfill, 
the dimension and schematic of both models are totally 
the same.  Where, the Young’s Modulus, CTE and 
Poisson’s ratio of the underfill is 14,470Mpa, 20 ppm/oc
and 0.28 respectively.  Figure 6 is the equivalent stress 
and total strain hysteresis loops in the spot of upper-right 
at the outmost corner solder joint, which is the 
96.5Sn-3.5Ag, 95.5Sn-3.8Ag-0.7Cu lead-free solders and 
the classical 63Sn-37Pb solder bumped WLCSP and the 
WLCSP with underfill respectively under the five 
temperature cycles.  It can be seen that: (1) For all three 
solder alloys, the variations of the equivalent stress and 
total strain hysteresis loops with underfill model shown in 
Figure 6(b), (d), and (f) is smoother than that of the 
WLCSP shown in Figure 6(a), (c), and (e) respectively; (2) 
The asymptotic stability of this model with underfill is 
better than that of the WLCSP in the five temperature 
cycles. 
Figure 7 shows the difference of the equivalent 
stress and total strain hysteresis loops of the fifth 
temperature cycle in the spot of upper-right at the outmost 
corner solder joint for both models of 63Sn-37Pb, 
96.5Sn-3.5Ag and 95.5Sn-3.8Ag-0.7Cu.  The dotted line 
is the hysteresis loop of WLCSP and the other is that of 
WLCSP with underfill.  For the WLCSP with underfill, 
the equivalent total strain range is greatly reduced. 
For the 63Sn-37Pb solder joint, the ratio of the 
equivalent total strain range of the WLCSP and the 
WLCSP with underfill is about 13.9:1.  Similarly, the 
95.5Sn-3.8Ag-0.7Cu is 13.7:1 and the 96.5Sn-3.5Ag is 
11.2:1.  Namely, the difference of the equivalent total 
strain range exceeds an order of magnitude for these three 
solder joints.  The phenomena of the thermo-mechanical 
behaviors and the difference of the equivalent total strain 
range exceed an order of magnitude for these three solder 
joints.  It is expected to supply the IC industries with 
more information to set up the significant criterion for the 
thermal cyclic test and thermal shock test on the WLCSP 
fields. 
Conclusions 
The elastic-plastic-creep behaviors of the two 
lead-free solders and the eutectic tin-lead solder bumped 
WLCSP on PCB assemblies subjected to the novel 
temperature cycle test was discussed in this study.  It can 
be seen that in the case of the same scale to the WLCSP 
and the WLCSP with underfill, the difference of the 
equivalent total strain range exceed an order of magnitude 
for these three solder joints.  
Acknowledgements 
This work has been supported by the National 
Science Council of Taiwan (Grant NSC 92-2212-E-033 
-010) and the Center-of-Excellence Program on 
Membrane Technology, the Ministry of Education, 
Taiwan, ROC. 
References 
1. Hong, B. Z., Thermal Fatigue Analysis of a CBGA 
Package with Lead-Free Solder Fillets, Proceedings of 
the 6th Intersociety Conference on Thermal and 
Thermomechanical Phenomena in Electronic Systems,
205-211 (1998). 
2. Pang, J. H. L. and Chong, D. Y. R., Flip Chip on Board 
Solder Joint Reliability Analysis Using 2-D and 3-D 
FEA Models, IEEE Transactions on Advanced 
Packaging, 24, 499-506 (2001). 
3. Thanachayanont, C. and Ramungul, N., Low-Cost 
Lead-Free Solder for EE Industries, IEEE ICIT’02, 
Bangkok, THAILAND, 1213-1218 (2002). 
4. Lau, J. H. and Lee, S. W. R., Modeling and Analysis of 
96.5Sn–3.5Ag Lead-Free Solder Joints of Wafer Level 
Chip Scale Package on Buildup Microvia Printed 
Circuit Board, IEEE Transactions on Electronics 
Packaging Manufacturing, 25, 51-58 (2002). 
5. Lau, J. H., Pan, S. H. and Chang, C., Creep Analysis of 
Wafer Level Chip Scale Package (WLCSP) with 
96.5Sn-3.5Ag and 100In Lead-Free Solder Joints and 
Microvia Build-up Printed Circuit Board, 
Transactions of the ASME, Journal of Electronic 
Packaging, 124, 69-76 (2002). 
6. Pang, J. H. L., Xiong, B. S., and Che, F. X., Modeling 
Stress Strain Curves for Lead-Free 
95.5Sn-3.8Ag-0.7Cu Solder, Proceedings of the 5th 
Int. Conf. on Thermal and Mechanical Simulation and 
Experiments in Microelectronics and Microsystems,
449-453 (2004). 
7. Jong, W. R., Chen, S. C., Tsai, H. C., Chiu, C. C., and 
Chang, H. T., The Geometrical Effects of Bumps on 
the Fatigue Life of Flip-Chip Packages by Taguchi 
Method, Journal of Reinforced Plastics and 
Composites, 25, 99-114 (2006). 
8. Tsai, H. C., Investigations on the Reliability 
Assessment of Lead-Free Packages Subjected to 
Temperature Cyclic Loading, Ph.D. Dissertation, Dept. 
of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian 
University, Taiwan (2006). 
9. ANSYS, Nonlinear Structural Analysis, ANSYS 
Users’ Manual 8.1 (2004). 
Key Words 
WLCSP, Underfill, CAE, Reliability 
Page 3 of 5
