 2
INTRODUCTION 
 The pseudodynamic test method was first implemented by Takanashi et al. around 1975 for the 
evaluation of the seismic performance of structures. The method is a procedure integrating analysis 
and experiment techniques. It requires a step-by-step integration procedure (Belytschko and Hughes 
1983) to conduct the step-by-step solution of the equations of motion where the response is to be 
discretized into a series of time steps. The inertial and damping characteristics of the test structure 
and the ground motion are numerically specified as in a conventional dynamic analysis. However, 
the restoring force characteristics are no longer determined from a mathematical model, which is 
usually needed for nonlinear dynamic analysis, and are experimentally measured from the test 
specimen. Since dynamic effects are taken into account in the equations of motion, computed 
displacements can be quasistatically imposed upon the test structure. It is believed that the results 
obtained from a pseudodynamic test are more accurate than those obtained from a nonlinear 
dynamic analysis due to the direct measurement of restoring force developed by the specimen. It is 
generally recognized that a reliable test result can be achieved if the test setup is properly adjusted 
and the pseudodynamic test errors are controlled within a certain limit (Shing and Mahin 1987a, 
1990; Peek and Yi 1990a, 1990b; Chang 2003, 2005). Consequently, the pseudodynamic test 
method has been applied to many seismic performance tests (Negro et al. 1996; Molina et al. 1999; 
Buonopane and White 1999; Chang, et al. 2004; Pinto, et al. 2004).  
 
 Among the many actual pseudodynamic applications, the pseudodynamic test method was 
used to evaluate the seismic response of a structure subject to a single horizontal component of 
dynamic loading (Shing and Mahin 1987b; Shing and Manivannan 1990; Nakashima and 
Kaminosomo 1990; Shing et al. 1991; Chang and Mahin 1993; Chang 1997, 2000, 2001, 2002; 
Thewalt and mahin 1995a; Chang et al. 1998, 2004; Molina et al. 2004). This is mainly because 
that a structure is often analyzed and designed assuming independent action of the unidirectional 
design seismic motion. Thus, for structures with a regular structural layout these directions are 
chosen to coincide with the principal axes of the structure plan. Under these conditions, the 
structure responds in one horizontal direction. However, earthquakes have two simultaneous 
horizontal components causing response in oblique directions. Meanwhile, typical buildings are not 
nominal depth and the width of the flange are , and the thickness for the web and flange is 
 and 12 , respectively. These columns were cut from the same piece of stock and had a 
clear height of  between base plates. The rolled steel column has different stiffness for the 
strong and weak axes. Hence, the different global stiffness of the one-story frame in either x- or 
y-axes can be achieved if the oriented direction of the strong axis or weak axis of each column is 
appropriately arranged. In fact, the arrangement shown in figure 2-a can represent a symmetric 
stiffness frame A while that shown in figure 2-b is used to denote a non-symmetric stiffness frame 
B. 
200 mm
8 mm  mm
2.78 m
 
 SHAKING TABLE TESTS 
 In order to confirm the reliability of the pseudodynamic results, a series of matched tests were 
performed on a shaking table to provide reference solutions for comparison. In National Center for 
Research on Earthquake Engineering (NCREE), Taiwan, the seismic simulator possesses 6 degrees 
of freedom to simulate earthquake motion in 3 principal axes. The shaking table is a box shaped 
structure so that high bending and torsional stiffness can be achieved with limited mass of the table. 
The dimension of the shaking table of the seismic simulator is 5 5 m×  and its mass is 27 . 
This table is driven by 12 servo-hydraulic actuators and 4 actuators for each axis. The hydraulic 
power is supplied by 2 electrical pumps and 3 diesel pumps which offer a total flow rate of 
1235  with a working pressure of 210 . The total weight of the shaking table and the 
specimen is balanced by 4 static supports. A maximum payload is 50 t  for the shaking table.  
tons
gpm 2/kg cm
ons
 
 Figure 1 shows the test setup for the shaking table testing of the one-story frame, whose four 
rolled steel columns were rigidly attached to the shaking table. The test specimen was parallel to the 
directions of table motion in the x- and y-axes. Displacement transducers connected to the reference 
frames measured the roof and column bottom displacements and accelerometers attached to the roof 
diaphragm and to the table monitored their absolute accelerations. The instrumentation details are 
shown in figure 3. The locations and directions of the accelerometers and displacement transducers 
are indicated by dashed arrows with notations. According to the notations as shown in figure 3, 
A1XE means the accelerometer is located at the column bottom along the x-direction on the east 
 4
FORMULATION OF EQUATIONS OF MOTION 
 Since the one-story test frame is assumed rigid in its own plane and is supported on four rolled 
steel columns at its corners three dynamic degrees of freedom are generally needed to describe the 
roof diaphragm motion of the frame. In general, the motion of the roof diaphragm can be described 
by the three generalized degrees of freedom of xu ,  and uyu θ  at the center of mass of the roof 
diaphragm, where the displacements of xu  and  are in the x- and y-direction, respectively, and 
the torsional rotation 
yu
uθ  is about the vertical axis. This is shown in figure 2. It is apparent that the 
servo-hydraulic actuators are unable to impose the desired displacements xu  and , and torsional 
rotation 
yu
uθ  directly at the center of mass of the roof diaphragm in performing a pseudodynamic 
test. Alternatively, these actuators must be ingeniously arranged so that the roof diaphragm motion 
of the one-story building described by the three generalized degrees of freedom of xu ,  and uyu θ  
can still be simulated equivalently. As an example, they might be arranged as shown in figure 4 
where the original directions of the actuators A and B are oriented in the x-direction while that of 
the actuator C is in the y-direction.  
 
 Unlike the use of generalized degrees of freedom to perform a pseudodynamic test, the loading 
points of actuators oriented in the original directions of these actuators are chosen to be the 
dynamic degrees of freedom for deriving the governing equations of motion for performing a 
pseudodynamic test, i.e., ,  and , as shown in figure 2. Herein, these degrees of freedom 
are treated as the loading-point degrees of freedom. This implementation is similar to a general 
planar test. As a result, according to these dynamic degrees of freedom, the equations of motion for 
the one-story frame can be expressed as 
au bu cu
 
 + + =Mu Cu r f   (1) 
 
where  and C  are the mass and viscous damping matrices of the test frame; M [ ]Ta b cr r r=r  is 
the vector of restoring force and  is a loading function vector. The restoring force vector is often 
expressed as  for a linear elastic system while it is, in general, a function of the current 
displacement state and of the response time history for a nonlinear system. The symbol  is used 
f
=r Ku
K
 6
  It is recognized that there is no need to determine the stiffness matrix for a pseudodynamic test. 
Here, to derive the explicit expression of stiffness matrix for a linear elastic system is intended to 
confirm the correctness of the formulation of equations of motion for a pseudodynamic test. In fact, 
after the eigenvalue analysis of the one-story frame system for the case of , 2.5 a m= 2.0 b m= , 
 and , where 63.05 10xk = × /N m 61.31 10 /yk = × N m xk  and  were experimentally measured 
from the specimen by imposing a small displacement prior to the actual pseudodynamic tests, the 
natural frequencies of the symmetric frame A and non-symmetric frame B would be obtained. For 
the convenience of comparison, the natural frequencies analytically determined from the eigenvalue 
analysis and those experimentally determined from the shaking table test are summarized in table 1. 
yk
 
Table 1.  Comparison of analytically and experimentally determined natural frequencies 
Test Frame Method 1ω ( )/rad sec 2ω ( )/rad sec  3ω ( )/rad sec
Analytical 19.29 29.41 34.46 
Symmetric Frame A 
Experimental 19.94 31.91 34.36 
Analytical 21.75 26.73 35.17 
Non-Symmetric Frame B 
Experimental 23.15 28.07 35.74 
 
Table 1 reveals that the natural frequencies analytically determined from the eigenvalue analysis are 
highly consistent with those obtained from the shaking table tests for both the symmetric frame A 
and non-symmetric frame B. This implies that the finite element model is appropriate and hence its 
application to pseudodynamic tests can proceed.  
 
NO GEOMETRIC CORRECTION FOR DISPLACEMENT 
The equations of motion for the one-story specimen, as shown in equation (1), are expressed in 
terms of the loading-point displacements of ,  and , and their corresponding restoring 
forces of ,  and . Since a displacement transducer and a load cell are usually imbedded in a 
servo-hydraulic actuator to provide the measurements of displacement and force, respectively. It is 
au bu cu
ar br cr
 8
correction.  
 
GEOMETRIC CORRECTION FOR RESTORING FORCE 
 Since the restoring forces developed by the structure, as the ,  and  shown in figure 4, 
were measured by the built-in load cells these forces are different from the loading-point restoring 
forces of ,  and , as shown in figure 2, because the directions of actuators vary after the test 
specimen deforms. Due to the finite length of an actuator, a nonlinear geometric correction is 
needed for the force measured from the built-in load cell.  
ar br cr
ar br cr
 
 As a result, the correlation between the loading-point forces and the forces measured from the 
built-in load cells can be expressed in a matrix form of  
 
  (4) r = Gr
 
where [ ]Ta b cr r r=r     is the force vector measured through the built-in load cells, and the geometric 
correction matrix is found to be  
 
 
1 0
1
1
a b c a b c
a a a b b b
a b c a b c b
a a a b b b c
a b c a b c
a a a b b b
u u u u u u
l l l l l l
u u u u u u u
l l l l l l l
u u u u u u
l l l l l l
⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞− − + − − +⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞= − + + − + −⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞⎢ ⎥− − + − − +⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
G ⎥  (5) 
 
where ,  and  are the original lengths of hydraulic actuators A, B and C, respectively. 
Noting that the relationships of 
al bl cl
cos 1θ ≈  and sinθ θ≈  were assumed in deriving the geometric 
correction matrix. This is because that the loading-point displacements of ,  and  are 
relatively small during a pseudodynamic test when compared to the original lengths of the 
actuators. 
au bu cu
 
 10
 1 0 0
0 1 0
0 0 1
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
L  (8) 
 
Thus, for this test setup, the load geometric influence matrix is a unit matrix. In general, this matrix 
is a constant matrix for a specified test, once structural configuration and ground motion inputs are 
determined. 
 
 In the bi-directional pseudodynamic testing of the one-story frame, the step-by-step solution 
algorithm for the  time step can be summarized as follows immediately after the end of 
the  time step. 
( )1i + − th
( )i th−
 
(a) Compute the loading-point displacement vector 1i+d  for the next time step by using the 
second line of equation (6). 
(b) Impose  through servo-hydraulic actuators. 1i+d
(c) Measure the force vector  developed by the specimen through the built-in load cells. 1i+r
(d) Convert the measured force vector 1i+r  into the loading-point restoring force vector 1i+r  by 
using equation (4). 
(e) Compute the next step velocity and acceleration vectors 1i+v  and 1i+a  by using the first and 
third line of equation (6). 
 
This pseudodynamic test procedure can be repeated from (a) to (e) after the desired response time 
history is achieved. 
 
PSEUDODYNAMIC TESTS 
 After confirming the reliability of the test setup and test procedure in the pilot tests, a series of 
pseudodynamic tests were performed for the specimens using steel columns cut from the same 
stock as those used in the shaking table tests. The exact procedure to obtain reliable seismic 
responses that was conducted on the shaking table was repeated for performing the pseudodynamic 
test. Hence, equation (6) was solved pseudodynamically by repeating the test procedure from (a) to 
 12
Table 2 shows that the one-story frame was subjected to a small earthquake for the test number of 1 
and 3 while it was subjected to a large earthquake for the test number of 2 and 4.  
 
 14
)
)
 Figures 6 to 9 show the test results for the test number of 1 to 4, respectively. Both the shaking 
table test results and the pseudodynamic test results were plotted together in each plot of the four 
figures for the convenience of comparison. In each figure, the notation of  represents the 
displacement of , which was the relative displacement experienced between the 
top and bottom of the column during the shaking table test as shown in figure 3. A similar 
definition was applied to 
(DXE∆
(D2XE D1XE−
( )DXW∆  and ( )DYS∆ . Meanwhile, the displacement responses of , 
 and  refer to the loading-point coordinate system. Although the tests performed for the test 
number of 1 and 3 had the input of a small earthquake, the fast Fourier transform of the 
displacement responses revealed that the specimens were also tested into inelastic range as those of 
a large earthquake. In general, the pseudodynamic test results are highly consistent with the shaking 
table test results for each loading-point degree of freedom. This implies that the implementation of 
using loading-point degrees of freedom for the bi-directional pseudodynamic testing is feasible and 
can be applied for the general applications.  
au
bu cu
 
COORDINATE TRANSFORMATION 
 In addition to the use of loading-point degrees of freedom to formulate the equations of notion 
for the pseudodynamic testing of the one-story frame, the equations of motion may be formulated in 
terms of the generalized displacements of xu ,  and yu uθ , and their corresponding restoring 
forces of xr ,  and yr rθ  for a pseudodynamic application or a time history analysis. Therefore, if 
the generalized displacements (or forces) are of interest these pseudodynamic results in the 
loading-point coordinate system must be transformed into the results in the generalized coordinate 
system. 
 
 Since the reinforced concrete slab was assumed to be rigid in its own plane the transformation 
between the generalized displacements (or forces) and loading-point displacements (or forces) can 
be easily constructed. As a result, the displacement or force transformation matrix can be expressed 
in a matrix form of  
 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 The author is grateful to acknowledge that this study is financially supported by the National 
Science Council, Taiwan, R.O.C., under Grant No. NSC-94-2211-E-027-011. All experimental 
works were conducted at the National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering (NCREE). 
The author is grateful for the technical support from NCREE, especially Mr. Kung-Juin Wang and 
Mr. Chih-Hsiung Chou, who have executed most of the experimental works. 
 
REFERENCES 
Belytschko, T., and Hughes, T.J.R. (1983). Computational methods for transient analysis, Elsevier 
Science Publishers B.V., North-Holland. 
Buonopane, S.G., and White, R.N. (1999). “Pseudodynamic testing of masonry infilled reinforced 
concrete frame.” Journal of Structural Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 125, No. 6, pp. 578-589. 
Chang, S.Y., and Mahin, S.A. (1993). “Two new implicit algorithms of pseudodynamic test 
methods,” Journal of the Chinese Institute of Engineers, Vol. 16, No. 5, pp. 651-664, 1993. 
Chang, S.Y. (1997). “Improved numerical dissipation for explicit methods in pseudodynamic tests.” 
Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics 26, 917-929. 
Chang, S.Y. (2000). “The γ − function pseudodynamic algorithm.” Journal of Earthquake 
Engineering, 4(3), 303-320. 
Chang, S.Y. (2001). “Application of the momentum equations of motion to pseudodynamic 
testing.” Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, Series A, 359(1786), 1801-1827. 
Chang, S.Y., (2002). “Explicit pseudodynamic algorithm with unconditional stability.” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, 128 (9), 935-947. 
Chang, S.Y., (2003). “Nonlinear error propagation analysis for explicit pseudodynamic algorithm.” 
Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, Vol. 129, No.8, pp. 841-850. 
Chang, S.Y., (2005). “Error propagation in implicit pseudodynamic testing of nonlinear systems.” 
Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, Vol. 131, No. 12, pp. 1257~1269. 
Chang, S.Y., Tsai, K.C., and Chen, K.C. (1998). “Improved time integration for pseudodynamic 
tests.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, 27, 711-730. 
 16
Journal of Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, 116, 805-821. 
Shing, P.B., and Manivannan, T. (1990). “On the accuracy of an implicit algorithm for 
pseudodynamic tests.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics 19, 631-651. 
Shing, P.B., Vannan, M.T. and Carter, E. (1991). “Implicit time integration for pseudodynamic 
tests.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, 20, 551-576. 
Strang, G. (1986). Linear algebra and its applications. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, San Diego. 
Takanashi, K., Udagawa, K., Seki, M., Okada, T., and Tanaka, H. (1975). “Nonlinear earthquake 
response analysis of structures by a computer-actuator on-line system.” Bulletin of Earthquake 
Resistant Structure Research Center, 8, Institute of Industrial Science, University of Tokyo, 
Tokyo, Japan. 
Thewalt, C.R., and Mahin, S.A. (1995a). “An unconditionally stable hybrid pseudodynamic 
algorithm.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, 24, 723-731. 
Thewalt, C.R., and Mahin, S.A. (1995b). “Non-planar pseudodynamic testing.” Earthquake 
Engineering and Structural Dynamics, Vol. 24, 733-746. 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 1. Photograph of one-story test specimen 
Figure 2. Mathematical model of one-story frame 
Figure 3. Instrumentation for shaking table test 
Figure 4. Pseudodynamic test setup for one-story structure 
Figure 5. Measured table accelerations for test number of 1 
 18
g
g
g
g
Figure 6. Responses to Kobe earthquake with peak ground accelerations of  and 
 for frame A 
max 0.4gxa g=
max 0.1gya =
Figure 7. Responses to Kobe earthquake with peak ground accelerations of  and 
 for frame A 
max 1.0gxa g=
max 0.6gya =
Figure 8. Responses to Kobe earthquake with peak ground accelerations of  and 
 for frame B 
max 0.3gxa g=
max 0.1gya =
Figure 9. Responses to Kobe earthquake with peak ground accelerations of  and 
 for frame B 
max 1.0gxa g=
max 0.6gya =
行政院所屬各機關因公出國人員出國報告書 
(出國類別：美國) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1906年舊金山大地震一百週年紀念地震會議 
 
(100th Anniversary Earthquake Conference 
Commemorating the 1906 San Francisco Earthquake) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 服務機關：國立台北科技大學土木系 
 出國人 職    稱：教授 
  姓    名：張順益 
 
 
 
 出國地點：美國，舊金山 
 出國期間：民國九十五年四月十七日至二十一日 
 報告日期：民國九十五年五月二十五日 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
