 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
下世代磁碟片超薄類鑽碳膜之研發 
 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-231-003 
      執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人： 譚安宏   清雲科技大學機械工程系 
共同主持人：陳振堂 
計畫參與人員：林璟灃 鄭穎駿 陳吳政翼 
 
(一) 摘要 
 
本文將探討離子束沉積及濺鍍沉積之超薄類鑽碳
膜的奈米硬度、潤滑劑鍵結比例及磨擦係數對磁碟片
之腐蝕及磨耗腐蝕性質之影響。結果顯示：在低乙炔
流量離子束碳氫膜或 1nm厚的濺鍍碳氮膜沉積在 2nm
厚的離子束碳氫膜上，具有較高的IBd B/IBg B拉曼強度比值
及G波鋒頻率。類鑽碳膜的硬度隨著IBd B/IBg B拉曼強度比值
及G波鋒頻率的降低而增加；當 1nm厚的濺鍍碳氮膜
沉積在 2nm厚的離子束碳氫膜上，其類鑽碳膜表面的
潤滑劑鍵結比例從 12%急增為 38%，因為此雙層結構
(1nm厚的濺鍍碳氮膜沉積在 2nm厚的離子束碳氫膜)
具有較高的潤滑劑鍵結比例，而獲得較高的耐蝕性。
當離子束碳氫膜在 35 sccm乙炔流量沉積條件時，因
為此類鑽碳氫膜具有較高的硬度及spP3 P 碳鍵結，而獲
得較好的磨耗腐蝕特性。有沉積類鑽碳膜的試片均比
只有鎳磷層的試片耐磨耗，尤其是試片C(離子束碳氫
膜在 35 sccm乙炔流量)具有最佳的潤滑劑鍵結比例與
最大硬度，而獲得最低的重量損失、最低的磨擦係數
及最好的磨耗腐蝕特性。 
 
關鍵字:磨耗腐蝕; 類鑽碳膜; 乙炔流量; 碳氮膜; 磁碟
片 
 
The wear-corrosion properties of magnetic 
recording disks which correlate to hardness, lubricant 
bonded ratio and friction coefficient of ultra thin 
diamond like carbon (DLC) films deposited with ion 
beam hydrogenated carbon and sputtering nitrogenated 
carbon, respectively when, deposited on NiP/aluminum 
substrates were investigated.  Results show that the 
IBD-CH films prepared at lower CB2BH B2B gas flow rates or 
1nm sputter CN deposited on 2nm IBD-CH layers, 
exhibit a higher Raman intensity ratio IBdB/I BgB and G peak 
frequency.  The hardness of DLC films increases with 
decreasing G peak frequency and intensity ratio IBdB/I Bg B.  
The lubricant bonded ratio is dramatically increased 
from 12 to 38% when a 1.0 nm CN is deposited on a 2.0 
nm IBD-CH layer.  IBD-CH with 35 sccm CB2BH B2B gas 
flow rate which shows the lowest weight loss, the 
lowest friction coefficient and the best wear-corrosion 
resistance because of the optimized lubricant bonded 
ratio and the highest hardness. 
Keywords: wear-corrosion; diamond like carbon; CB2BH B2 
Bgas flow; CN; hard disk 
(二) 前言 
Wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant diamond like 
carbon (DLC) coatings are frequently used in magnetic 
recording disk technology to improve disk quality and 
life. P1,2 P   They allow disk products to survive in adverse 
environments where they are subjected to high wear or 
corrosion.  The magnetic recording disk properties, such 
as disk read/write, durability and reliability performance, 
are strongly related to the disk surface protective overcoat.  
DLC overcoats of a sputtered amorphous hydrogenated 
carbon (a-C:H) overcoatP3 P has long served the disk industry 
as the protective overcoat for the underlying magnetic layer 
from the mid-1990s but this has recently been replaced by 
ion beam deposition hydrogenated carbon (IBD-CH).P4P  
Sputtering nitrogenated carbon thin films (CNx) have been 
extensively studied in recent years. P5,6 P Adding an 
appropriate amount of nitrogen during the DLC deposition 
process increased the lubrication effect and the wear 
resistance of the thin film. P7 P   The incorporated N B2 B could 
lead to formation of C=N and C≣N bonds, which at the 
same time creates unsaturated spins and mid-gap states 
resulting in a substantial decrease of electrical resistance of 
the film. P8P  Compared with carbon overcoats, carbon 
nitride has a different surface polarity, which results in a 
dramatically different lubricant-overcoat interface and this 
in turn influences the amount of bonded lubricant.P9 P  IBD 
can produce very hard, smooth and highly dense 
amorphous carbon films compared with usual deposition 
methods, i.e. sputtering. P10,11 P  Further increases in the 
magnetic storage density of future head-disk drives will 
necessitate a reduction in the thickness of protective 
overcoat.  Corrosion resistance and durability become  
very challenged when carbon overcoat is lowered to an 
ultra-thin thickness (<5 nm). P12P  Developing a thinner 
overcoat with better corrosion and wear resistance is 
therefore a necessity to meet the challenges of current and 
future technology. 
Most contributors when focusing on overcoat relate to 
the corrosion or wear performance, P13,14 P separately.  
Reisela et alP15 P studied the characterization of nitrogen 
modified DLC films by changing the CB2BH B2B flow ratio in 
radio-frequency plasma enhanced chemical vapor 
deposition.  Liao et alP16 P investigated the effect of HB2B/ CB2BH B2B 
ratio on the structure and tribological properties of carbon 
 4
The Raman G peak frequency of samples B, C and D are 
shown in Fig. 4.  Noticeable differences among the G 
peak frequency of the films as a function of CB2BH B2B gas flow 
rate and sputtered-CN layer are observed in the figure.  In 
the film deposited under 3nm IBD-CH thickness with 25 
and 35 sccm flow rate, it is observed that the G peak 
frequency decreases with increasing CB2BH B2B gas flow rate.  
Compared with samples B and C, the G peak frequency of 
sample D was increased significantly when the 1.0 nm 
sputtered-CN was deposited on 2.0 nm IBD-CH film.  
Otherwise, Fig. 5 shows the intensity ratio I BdB/I BgB of D 
peak to G peak and sp P3P content have a similar trend as well 
as G peak frequency, which implies that the IBD-CH films 
prepared at higher CB2BH B2B gas flow rate contain relatively 
higher sp P3 P bonded carbon.  Meanwhile, the 2nm 
IBD B35 B/1nm CN of sample D exhibits the highest I BdB/I BgB ratio 
because it contains the lowest sp P3P bonded carbon compared 
with samples B and C.  This tendency agrees with that 
exhibited in the study of Lin et al. P18P  An increasing IBdB/I BgB 
ratio is correlated with an increase in the graphite-like 
nano-crystallites,P19P while the shift in the G band position 
toward lower wave numbers  reveals an increase in 
diamond-like characteristics. P20P  Fig. 6 shows the nano 
hardness of samples A to D.  Obviously, samples B to D 
with the DLC films have higher hardness than the 
NiP/substrate.  The lower sp P3P structure of sample D 
resulted in a lower composite hardness than that of samples 
B and C.  The composite hardness of DLC films increase 
with increasing CB2BH B2B gas flow rate from 25 to 35 sccm. 
 
4.2 Corrosion properties of DLC films 
What is shown in Fig. 7 is deposited IBD-CH films on 
NiP layer, when looking at sample B verse A, the lubricant 
bonded ratio is dramatically increased from 4 to 14%.  In 
sample C verses B in Fig. 7, the lubricant bonded ratio is 
slightly decreased when the CB2BH B2B gas flow rate increases 
from 25 to 35 sccm.  Investigation into the CN overcoat 
even though the sputtered-CN surface is typically 
comprised of substantially fewer carbon-oxygen 
functionalities compared to CH film, P21P the increased 
surface polarity and enhanced charge transfer rates at the 
electrified CN/aqueous interface could be derived from the 
presence of the polar carbon-nitrogen functionalities.  The 
surface energy of overcoat films becomes large by CN 
deposition so that the adhesion of lubricant to the CN film 
can be improved.  Compared to disk overcoats deposited 
with IBD-CH films of comparable thickness, the 
comparison data of samples D and C of Fig. 7, results show 
that the lubricant bonded ratio is dramatically increased 
from 12 to 38% when a 1.0 nm CN is deposited on a 2.0 
nm IBD-CH layer.  Lubricant bonded ratios between the 
interface of lubricant and DLC films shall have a major 
role for further improvements in the corrosion resistance, 
as shown in Fig. 8, all of samples with the DLC films have 
smaller anodic corrosion current densities than the 
NiP/substrate when they are exposed to 1 M NaCl+1 M 
H B2BSO B4B solution, and the anodic polarization curves move 
toward the left. 
Further investigation of the effect of CB2BH B2B gas flow rate 
and sputtered-CN film on corrosion properties of 
potentio-dynamic curves is examined next.  In samples B 
and C of Fig. 8, anodic corrosion current density decreases 
from 19.1 to 15.3 nA/cmP2 P as the CB2 BH B2 B gas flow rate 
increases from 25 to 35 sccm.  Compared to sample C 
deposited with IBD-CH of comparable thickness, disks 
employing a CN overcoat typically display increased 
surface polarities, increased lubricant bonded ratio, and 
enhanced corrosion susceptibility.  It is found that the 
dual layer of 1.0 nm sputtered-CN deposited on 2.0 nm 
IBD-CH film attain a high corrosion resistance, as shown 
in sample D of Fig. 8.  The lubricant bonded ratio is a key 
parameter for anodic corrosion current density 
improvement when samples A to D are exposed to 1 M 
NaCl+1 M H B2BSO B4B solutions.  The higher lubricant bonded 
ratio, indicates better surface coverage to protect the 
surface, therefore less corrosion current densities were 
obtained 
 
4.3 Wear-corrosion properties of DLC films 
Wear-corrosion tests were performed to further 
evaluate the wear-corrosion resistance of the samples with 
DLC films.  The surface hardness, structure and lubricant 
bonded ratio of overcoats are extremely important 
impacting the wear-corrosion sensitivity of magnetic 
recording disk.  Fig. 9 shows the wear-corrosion 
potentio-dynamic curves of samples A to D in a mixed 1 M 
NaCl + 1 M HB2BSO B4B solution.  All of samples B, C and D 
with the DLC films have smaller anodic corrosion current 
densities than the NiP/substrate when they are exposed to a 
1 M NaCl+1 M H B2BSO B4B solution.  When increasing the 
CB2 BH B2 B gas flow rate from 25 to 35 sccm, as shown in sample 
B verses C of Fig. 9, sample C has  smaller anodic 
corrosion current densities than the sample B because 
sample C exhibits a relatively higher hardness and  higher 
sp P3 P bonded carbon content.  Compared with sputtered-CN, 
IBD-CH offers the promise of producing harder films at 
comparable total film thickness.  Disk employing a CN 
layer typically display increased surface polarities, 
increased lubricant bonded ration, decreased sp P3P bonded 
carbon and decreased surface hardness.  The surface 
hardness and lubricant bonded ratio of overcoats are 
extremely important impacting the wear-corrosion 
sensitivity of magnetic recording disk.  Even the dual 
layer of 1.0 nm sputtered-CN deposited on 2.0 nm IBD-CH 
film of sample D exhibits a higher lubricant bonded ratio, 
but its hardness is too low to meet the wear-corrosion 
requirement. 
The thickness of the bonded lubricant at the 
lubricant-overcoat interface has the effect of increasing the 
coefficient of friction. P22 P  The hardness and lubricant 
bonded ratio are important parameters to affect 
wear-corrosion properties.  Too high thickness of bonded 
lubricant at the lubricant-overcoat interface will increase 
the coefficient of friction.  The higher friction will 
increase the wear weight loss during wear-corrosion test.  
The lubricant bonded ratio of sample D is much higher 
than B and C.  This means there is less free lubricant to 
redistribute on the interface of block and ring.  Therefore, 
the friction coefficient of sample D is higher than B and C, 
as shown in Fig. 10.  On the other hand, the lube bonded 
ratio of sample A is much lower than samples B, C and D.  
This indicates that sample A has more free lubricant to 
 6
 
Fig. 2 The correlation between IBD-CH film thickness and 
deposition during time at 25 and 35 sccm gas flow rate 
 
 
Fig. 3 The thickness of overcoat films correlated to TEM 
cross section 
 
 
Fig. 4 Raman G peak frequency of samples B: IBDB25 B, C: 
IBD B35 B and D: IBD B35B/CN  
 
Fig. 5Raman I BdB/I Bg B ratio and sp P3P content of samples B: IBDB25 B, 
C: IBD B35 B and D: IBD B35B/CN  
 
 
Fig. 6 Nano hardness of samples A: NiP, B: IBD B25 B, C: 
IBD B35 B and D: IBD B35B/CN 
 
 
Fig. 7 Lubricant bonded ratio of samples A: NiP, B: IBDB25 B, 
C: IBD B35 B and D: IBD B35B/CN 
 
 
Fig. 8 Corrosion Potentio-dynamic curves of various 
samples (corrosion current density, nA/cmP2 P: A=1945.0, 
B=19.1, C=15.3, D=10.6) in a mixed 1 M NaCl + 1 M 
H B2BSO B4 B solution 
 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：U 99U 年 7 月 10 日 
一、 參加會議經過: 
z 此次本人發表論文題目為  (英文 ) Characterization of Nano diamonds 
development in hard disk manufacture. 發表過程承蒙美國學者的指導及討論
獲益良多。 
z 日本廠商 Nissan Chemical Ltd. 社長及研發者亦對此發表論文主題特別感興
趣，亦訂定合作及來臺灣參訪討論之時間。 
z 論文在大會被安排為海報論文發表，此次能在國科會補助部份經費下，參與
2010 Nanotech 年會，主要除了能獲得奈米技術、材料及儀器設備專業研究知
識的拓廣外，攜回會議論文及展示資料，可作為未來研究的重要參考，並從報
計畫編號 NSC98-2221-E-231-003 
計畫名稱 下世代磁碟片超薄類鑽碳膜之研發 
出國人員
姓名 譚安宏 
服務機構
及職稱 清雲科技大學機械工程系 教授 
會議時間 99年 6月 21日至 99 年 6 月 25 日 會議地點 
Conventional Center/Anaheim, 
California/USA 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2010 奈米技術國際研討會 
(英文) Nanotech 2010 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)奈米鑽石對硬碟片製造之應用特性 
(英文) Characterization of Nano diamonds development in hard disk 
manufacture 
 3
他的聚會形式，也許更能刺激學者間的交流。 
z 增加補助：本次會議雖收穫很多，然而儘管現今科技交通工具的進步，往反美
國卻是可謂長途跋涉外，交通費用固然較為昂貴，除了自行負擔食宿外，在交
通補助上建議應有別於至亞洲其他國家，而能有所提高以減輕個人負擔。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容: 
z 紙本論文集及光碟片 
z 參展廠商相關技術資料 
z 面對面討論之廠商研發者、研究機構學者之相關名片 
六、其他: 無 
