1418 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
Fig. 3. Flowchart for the determination of the transistor’s small-signal
parameters.
Fig. 4. Saturated HBT for the determination ofR ,R , andR . (a) Schematic.
(b) By extrapolating the measured resistance to those corresponding to infinite
base current, we have R = 7:5 
, R = 4:1 
, and R = 4:3 
. The solid
curves are measured at 2 GHz; the dashed ones are at 5 GHz.
and are beneath the first-layer metal, they are beyond the
reach of a short-circuit test structure, but can be determined
by forcing the transistor into saturation [23]. By setting the
current flowing out of the collector to be half of the base
current, we slowly increase the base current and voltage, from
1 and 18.8 mV, respectively, to 11 and 95 mV, respectively.
Since this saturated intrinsic transistor can now be modeled
as two conducting diodes, as shown in Fig. 4(a), a Tee circuit
configuration, especially at low frequency, emerges. By extrap-
olating the measured resistance to that corresponding to infinite
base current, we have the frequency-independent , , and
equal to 7.5, 4.1, and 4.3 , respectively, as illustrated in
Fig. 4(b). Here, the solid curves are those corresponding to
2 GHz, and the dashed curves are for 5 GHz. The impacts of
both and on the transistor’s Pi model are ready to be
removed now; , however, will be temporarily retained for
the determination in Section II-B of the substrate network.
B. Determination of Substrate Network
Though mathematically the substrate network can be decided
when the transistor is in saturation, the small in-parallel
renders the derived substrate parameter values highly suscep-
tible to measurement uncertainties. Reliable results can be ob-
tained by reverse-biasing the transistor. With V,
A, V, and A,
Fig. 5. Reverse-biased HBT for the determination of substrate network.
(a) Schematic. (b) Measured and simulated substrate admittance Y versus
frequency. The solid curves are the measured results; the dashed curves are the
simulated ones with C = 21:4 fF, C = 57:5 fF, and R = 128 
.
the reverse-biased intrinsic transistor resembles two separate ca-
pacitors, as shown in Fig. 5(a). As far as and are con-
cerned, port 1 on the left of the schematic can be connected
to ground and the signal is injected into port 2 on the right. If
is much smaller than the impedance of the series cir-
cuit, then most of the current passing through from port 2
will flow down the branch rather than the branch.
By treating this as open circuit, we then have
, where
(1)
Since the complex-number can provide only two
constraints at each frequency point, analytical solutions (of
genuinely frequency independent) for the three parameters
constructing the substrate network cannot be obtained; rather,
numerical algorithms need to be used. As
(2)
and
(3)
Least squares fit over the whole frequency range then gives
fF, fF, and , respec-
tively. Fig. 5(b) shows the admittance of the substrate network.
Here, the solid curves are the measured results; the overlapping
dashed curves are their simulated counterparts. Of course, other
similar formulations can also be employed for the derivation of
, , and [9], [10]. If only series [24], or parallel,
circuit is used to model the substrate network, close-form
analytical expressions can indeed be written, but the resulting
parameters will be highly frequency dependent and, thus, are
not useful.
C. Determination of
With both the substrate network and readily removed
from the schematic of the reverse-biased transistor, analytical
1420 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
Fig. 9. Measured (solid) and simulated (dashed) S-parameters of the reverse-
biased HBT on the Smith chart.
TABLE I
REVERSE-BIASED TRANSISTOR
Fig. 10. R and the normal-biased intrinsic transistor. (a) Schematic. (b) Mea-
sured R where curve 1 is derived using (11), curve 2 is using (12), and curve
3 is using the algorithm suggested in [20].
A, the normal-biased , as shown in Fig. 10(a),
can be determined when both and are known. As
(9)
i.e.,
(10)
therefore,
(11)
Fig. 11. S and 1=Y curves used in deriving R . (a) S used for the ex-
trapolation of (16) from 0.1 to 30 GHz. (b) 1=Y used for the extrapolation of
(17) from 0.5 to 30 GHz. Both curves move clockwise as frequency increases.
On the other hand, if the transconductance can be treated as
a real number, we can also express in terms of and
[21], i.e.,
(12)
with
(13)
and
(14)
Here, the current flowing through needs to be assumed
much larger than that on the branch. Fig. 10(b) displays
the derived where curve 1 comes from our proposed (11),
the upper bound curve 2 is from (12), and the somehow lower
bound curve 3 is using the algorithm suggested in [20]. The dis-
crepancy between these three curves instigates a further numer-
ical survey as follows.
As suggested in the IC-CAP user’s manual, by assuming the
transconductance to be a real number and
(15)
then the input impedance (with 50- output loading) can be
expressed as
(16)
Extrapolation of the corresponding contour on the Smith
chart to infinite frequency results in a of 25 , as illustrate
in Fig. 11(a). Alternatively, by assuming to be much larger
1422 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 55, NO. 7, JULY 2007
Fig. 13. Magnitude of h versus frequency. (a) In logarithmic scale where
the solid curve 1 is with the total transistor; solid curve 2 is with the intrinsic
transistor only. The two dashed curves are their high-frequency linear approxi-
mation for deriving f . (b) In linear scale.
Fig. 14. Magnitude of gain U versus frequency. (a) In logarithmic scale where
the two overlapping solid curves are the measured and simulated results with
the total transistor; the dashed curve is the high-frequency linear approximation
for deriving f . (b) In linear scale.
Fig. 15. Measured and simulatedS-parameters of the normal-biased HBT. The
solid curves are the measured results; the overlapping dashed curves are the
simulated ones. The error  defined in (23) is 0.13%.
where is the stability factor, the maximum oscillation fre-
quency , which is the frequency at which is equal to 1,
can be easily obtained. Both the measured -parameters and the
model-based -parameters give the same GHz, as
shown in Fig. 14.
Accuracy of the HBT’s small-signal Pi modeling can be ver-
ified by comparing the measured and simulated -parameters,
Fig. 16. Measured (solid line) and simulated (dotted line) S-parameters of the
normal-biased HBT on the Smith chart.
TABLE II
NORMAL-BIASED TRANSISTOR
Fig. 17. Measured and simulatedS-parameters of the HBT biased atV = 2V,
I = 6:6mA, V = 0:95 V, and I = 65:7 A. The solid curves are the mea-
sured results; the overlapping dashed curves are their simulated counterparts.
The error  is 0.38%.
as shown in Figs. 15 and 16. Here, the solid curves are the mea-
sured results; the overlapping dashed curves are their simulated
counterparts. If we define the error as
(23)
where the summation is over the frequency points
from 0.1 to 30 GHz. The calculated error is 0.13%. The bias
condition and parameter values used in the simulation are tabu-
lated in Table II.
Applying the same collector and base voltages, another tran-
sistor of the same size on the same wafer is measured, with
