1、報告內容
奈米級生物可分解木粉纖維合膠製備與加工成型之研究
NSC-95-2221-E-244-014-
吳進三* 廖心慈 陳昱菖 許傑智 羅勝聰
Institute of Environmental Polymer Materials, Kao Yuan University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
Fax: 07-6077685 E-mail: cws1222@cc.kyu.edu.tw
Abstract
The aim of this work is the production of new
biodegradable nanocomposites from polylactide (PLA),
tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) and wood flour (WF) by means of an
in-situ sol-gel process and a melt blending method.
Characterizations of SiO2, PLA, and hybrids were performed by
Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrophotometer, 29Si
solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
spectrophotometer, and Instron mechanical tester. As the results,
the SiO2 can be well dispersed into the acrylic acid grafted
polylactide (PLA-g-AA) in nanoscale sizes since the
tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) is partially compatible with
PLA-g-AA and allows PLA-g-AA chains intercalating into SiO2
layers.
Keywords: PLA, SiO2, blends, sol-gel, wood flour
中文摘要
本研究探討聚乳酸 (PLA)、二氧化矽 與木粉混練物所得
之合膠系統的機械性質,為了增加兩相間之相容性,加入自製
聚乳酸 (PLA)接枝丙烯酸(PLA-g-AA),在本文中亦詳加探
討。分別將聚乳酸 (PLA)及接枝丙烯酸(PLA-g-AA) 、二氧
化矽與木粉混合均勻。且實驗產物將利用霍式轉換紅外光儀
(FTIR)，29Si 核子共振儀 (NMR)分析其結構與鍵結關係。後
續再使用萬能試驗機，測其機械性質。
關鍵詞：聚乳酸、二氧化矽、混練、溶膠凝膠、木粉
INTRODUCTION
The non-renewable of most plastics has caused many
environmental problems associated with their disposal.
Recycling is an environmentally attractive solution but only a
minor portion of plastics is recyclable and most end up in
municipal burial sites. This leads to the increasingly difficult
problem of finding available landfill areas. Hence, there is an
increased interest in the production and use of biodegradable
polymers. The main strategies to address these problems are to
utilize polymeric materials from renewable sources such as
wood flour (WF), starch, cellulose and chitin, and to develop
biodegradable polymeric material such as polylactide (PLA),
poly(3-caprolactone) (PCL), poly(glycolic acid)(PGA) and
poly(3-hydroxybutyrate)(PHB). In the past decades, blending of
plastic materials with cheap and natural biopolymers to increase
the biodegradability of the original polymers has received a
considerable industrial and academic interest.1-3 This is due to
the advantage that these biopolymers are abundant, inexpensive,
renewable, and fully biodegradable natural raw materials.
It is now possible to prepare polymer/ceramic hybrids via
molecular-level manipulation using a sol-gel process to create
novel materials. 4-6 The promise of these new hybrid materials is
a controllable combination of the benefits of polymers (e.g.,
flexibility, toughness, and easy processing) and those of
ceramics or glasses (e.g., hardness, durability and thermal
stability). Examples of organic polymers used in the sol-gel
process include elastomers, glassy polymers and semicrystalline
polymers. 7 Ceramic precursors usually involve organometallic
compounds [M(OCnH2n+1)z, where M = Si, Sn, Ti, Zr, Al, etc.],
and the most common one is the tetraethoxysilane (TEOS). 7 Via
the sol-gel process, the organometallic compounds may be
hydrolyzed to leave terminal hydroxyl groups and then
subsequently reacted to condense with each other to form
metal-oxygen-metal bridging units.
To lower the cost and to heighten the mechanical property
of PLA, WF and ceramics are chosen as biopolymers and
reinforcement material, respectively, to blend with PLA in this
study. The purpose of this article is devoted to prepare the
biodegradable PLA/SiO2/WF nanocomposites by the simple
melt blending method to mitigate the disadvantages of PLA. It is
well known that homogeneous dispersion of the hydrophilic
SiO2 in the hydrophobic PLA matrix is not realized because
there is no polar group in the backbone of biopolymer. So, the
acrylic acid grafted PLA (PLA-g-AA) was studied as an
alternative to PLA. We predict that the PLA-g-AA/SiO2/WF
hybrid could obviously improve the properties the
PLA/SiO2/WF hybrid since hydrogen bonds may arise from the
basic group of the hydrogen acceptor in the PLA-g-AA and the
covalent bonds may result from dehydration of –OH groups in
the polymer and the residual silica bonded in the silica network.
The conclusions are based on a combination of Fourier
transform infrared (FTIR) spectrophotometer, 29Si solid-state
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrophotometer.
Moreover, the mechanical properties of hybrids is also examined
by Instron mechanical tester.
EXPERIMENTAL
Materials
The polylactide was used as supplied by Cargill-Dow, and
is composed of 95% L-lactide and 5% meso-lactide. The acrylic
acid (AA), supplied by Aldrich, was purified by
re-crystallization from chloroform before use. Benzoyl peroxide
(BPO), used as an initiator, was purified by dissolution in
chloroform and reprecipitation with methanol. The wood flour,
supplied by Zell Wildshausen GMBH, was Celluflex. The grain
size distribution of wood flour is 100% finer than 250m, 87%
finer than 100m and 37% finer than 50m. The moisture
content and the apparent density of the wood flour are 82% and
0.10-0.12g/cm3, respectively. The tetraethoxysilane (TEOS;
Aldrich Chemical Co., Milwaukee, WI) was of reagent grade
and was used as received. Other reagents were purified by the
conventional methods. The PLA-g-AA copolymer was
constructed in our laboratory as described below.
Samples Preparation
PLA-g-AA Copolymer
Grafting reaction of AA onto molten PLA was performed
by using xylene as an interface agent and BPO as an initiator
under a nitrogen atmosphere at 852oC. The reaction lasted for 6
hours with a rotor speed of 60rpm. The grafting percentage was
determined by a titration method and the result showed that it
was about 5.96 wt% when BPO and AA loadings were kept at
0.3 wt% and 10 wt%, respectively. More in formations about
grafting reaction of AA onto can be referred to our previous
work. 8
Preparation of Hybrids from PLA, PLA-g-AA, SiO2 and Wood
Flour
A mixture, caled “Sol A,” was prepared by dissolving a 
stoichiometric amount (shown in Table 1) of TEOS, H2O and
HCl (as the catalyst) in THF and then stirring it at room
1
the consequence due to the characteristic frequencies of SiO2
and the formationof Si-O-C bond.
Mechanical Properties of Hybrids
Figure 5 shows the variations of tensile strength at break
with the WF content for PLA/WF, PLA-g-AA/WF, and
PLA-g-AA/SiO2/WF blends. It can be seen that the tensile
strength of pure PLA is decreased when it is grafted with AA.
The solid circles in Figure 5 illustrate that the tensile strength at
break of PLA/WF blends decrease continuously and markedly
from 53.5Mpa to 18.8Mpa as the WF content is increased form 0
to 50wt%. The deterioration in mechanical properties of
PLA/WF blends may be due to the larger WF phase size (Table 3)
and the wide difference in character between the hydrophobic
PLA and the hydrophilic. For PLA-g-AA/WF blends, as shown
by the hollow circles in Figure 5, a quite different behavior of
the tensile strength at break can be found, namely, the tensile
strength at break increases with an increasing of WF content,
although PLA-g-AA has a lower value of the tensile strength
than that of the pure PLA. It is also found that the
PLA-g-AA/WF blends not only give larger values of tensile
strength than those of the PLA/WF blends but also provide
stable values of the tensile strength when the WF content is
beyond 10 wt%. A contribution to this result may be due to the
better dispersion and smaller phase size of WF in the PLA-g-AA
matrix (Table 3). This better dispersion may arise from the
formation of branched and crosslinked macromolecules, since
this PLA-g-AA copolymer has carboxylic acid groups to react
with the hydroxyls of WF. These macromolecules have higher
tensile strength, as compared with the linear ones. For
PLA-g-AA/SiO2/WF blends (the hollow triangles in Figures 5),
as compared with PLA/WF and PLA-g-AA/WF blends, much
enhancement on the values of the tensile strength at break can be
observed. The much better mechanical properties provided by
the PLA-g-AA/SiO2/WF blends may be coming from the much
smaller wood flour phase size (Table 3), the nanoscale dispersion
of silicate layers in the polymer matrix, and the formation of the
SiOC bond from the reaction between the PLA-g-AA and the
silicate phase of SiO2.
CONCLUSIONS
In this article, biodegradable organic-inorganic hybrids
were prepared by an in situ sol-gel process and the melt blending
method. FTIR spectra verified that the acrylic acid had been
grafted onto the PLA copolymer and the Si-O-C bonds were
formed in the PLA-g-AA/SiO2 hybrid. The newly formed
chemical bonds were produced through the dehydration of
carboxylic acid groups in the PLA-g-AA with residual silanol
groups in the silicate network. Additionally, as a result of the 29Si
solid-state NMR analysis, it was found that Si atom coordination
around SiO4 units is predominantly Q3 and Q4. This result was in
agreement with structural interpretation of the FTIR spectra.
Meanwhile, maximum tensile strength values occurred at about
10wt% SiO2 for PLA-g-AA/SiO2 hybrids. Above 10wt% SiO2,
excess silica particles may cause separation between the organic
and inorganic phases, so reducing the compatibility between the
silica network and PLA-g-AA. The PLA/SiO2, on the other hand,
only has weaker hydrogen bonds. The PLA-g-AA/SiO2 hybrid is
a significant improvement over PLA/SiO2 as far as its
mechanical property is concerned. To improve the biodegradable
property of the PLA/SiO2 hybrids, the wood flour is chosen as
the organic filler and the result shows that PLA-g-AA/SiO2/WF
hybrids could markedly improve the mechanical properties of
PLA/WF and PLA-g-AA/WF hybrids since the nanoscale
dispersion of silica layers, the smallest WF phase size, and the
primary valence forces can be obtained in the
PLA-g-AA/SiO2/WF hybrids. Finally, the biodegradable
PLA-g-AA/SiO2/WF nanocomposites produced from our
laboratory can provide a plateau tensile strength at break when
the wood flour content is up to 50 wt%.
REFERENCES
1. Rizvi, G. M.; Park, C. B;, Lin, W. S.; Guo, G. and Pop-Iliev
R. Polym. Eng. Sci. 2003, 43, 1347.
2. Lin, Q.; Zhou, X.; Dai, G. J Appl Polym Sci 2002, 85,
2824.
3. Ichazo M. N.; Hernández, M.; Albano,C.; González, J.
Macromolecular Symposia 2006, 239, 192-200.
4. Ozaki, S. K.; Monteiro, M. B. B.; Yano, H.; Imamura, Y.;
Souza, M. F. Polymer Degrad and Stab, 2005, 87, 293.
5. Han-Seung Yang, H.-S.; Wolcott, Michael P.; Sumin Kim,
H.-S.; Hyun-Joong Kim H.-J. Polymer Testing, 2006, 25,
668.
6. Choi, H.; Sofranko, A. C.; Dionysiou D. D. Adv
Functional Materials 2006, 16, 1067.
7. Schubert ,U. Advanced Engineering Materials 2004, 6,
173.
8. Wu, C. S Macromolecular Bioscience 2005, 5, 352.
9. Wu, C. S.; Liao, H.T., Polymer 2005, 46, 10017.
10. Wu, C. S.; Liao, H.T., J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 2003, 88, 966.
11. Wu, K. H.; Chang, T. C.; Yang, J. C.; Chen , H. B. J. Appl.
Polym. Sci 2001, 79, 965.
12. Liao, H.T. ; Wu, C. S. Macromol Mater Eng 2005, 290,
695.
Table 1. Compositions of Various Sol-Gel Liquid Solutions for
Preparation of Hybrid Materials.
(a) Polymer is PLA, PLA-g-AA, PLA+WF, or PLA-g-AA+WF.
(b) The mole ratio of HCl and H2O to TEOS.
SiO2 (wt%)
Compositions 3 7 10 13 16
Polymer (g)(a) 38.52 34.01 30.77 28.58 26.26
TEOS (g) 4.13 8.81 11.89 14.65 16.96
THF(g) 4.13 8.81 11.89 14.65 16.96
[HCl]/[TEOS](b) 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
Sol
A
[H2O]/[ TEOS](b
)
2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2
3
