 1 
豎井與中繼站對長汽車隧道之影響 
The Influence of Vertical Shafts and Interchange Ducts on Long Road Tunnels 
 
計劃編號：NSC97-2221-E-020-004- 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：梁智創 屏東科技大學車輛工程系 
 
 
1. ABSTRACT 
雪山隧道的設計非常特殊，隧道中共有三座共
同通風豎井和三座空氣互換管道(亦稱中繼站)。當隧
道中車流量大時，隧道通風系統將啟動短循環機制，
但若車流量小時，隧道通風系統則將啟動長循環機制
以降低通風系統之耗能。本計畫之主要目標為探討隧
道系統添增通風豎井和中繼站對長隧道排廢氣以及發
生火災時煙控之影響。其中研究能量主要將集中於探
討火災因素如火源位置、火勢大小、通風量等對火場
情形的影響。火源位置分別位於第一組豎井上游、第
一組豎井處、第一組豎井下游、中繼站、中繼站下游
以及第二組豎井處。火勢大小的大小則分別為 10 
MW、20 MW以及 100 MW。此外，本研究也將根據
CFD 結果探討煙塵回流層效應(backlayering effect)與
通風係數(Ventilation number)的關係。在數值模擬的
過程中，本計畫只選擇一段包含通風豎井和中繼站的
隧道作為研究對象。在短循環通風機制時，煙流極有
可能蔓延到反方向的隧道中。若通風量降至 50%，
火勢有增大的趨勢。然而，若啟動長循環通風機制，
隧道內溫度則會下降。由於隧道格局比較複雜，以致
煙流特性也隨之更難預測。本研究中所有案例，其
Ve 值皆低於 4，表示隧道內必定有回流層效應。而
模擬結果也都顯示了次現象。 
關鍵字：雪山隧道、隧道火災、豎井、中繼站、煙
流、計算流體力學。 
 
Hseuhshan Tunnel consists of two longitudinally 
ventilated bores. These two bores are interconnected by 
three pairs of interchange ducts. In addition to the 
interchange ducts, each pair of these bores are also 
connected to vertical shafts that serve to supply fresh air 
and remove polluted air. When the traffic is heavy, all 
these ducts and vertical shafts will be in operation 
leading to a ventilation scheme referred to as the short 
loop ventilation mode. On the other hand, if the traffic is 
not that heavy, the ducts will be closed switching the 
operation mode to the long loop ventilation scheme. The 
main objective of this proposal is to find out the effect of 
the presence of interchange ducts and vertical shafts on 
the road tunnel system in terms of removal of polluted 
gases from the tunnel system as well as the smoke flow 
behavior in such a complicated tunnel system. The 
relationship between the fire phenomena with parameters 
including the location of the fire, the fire size, and the 
ventilation speed will also be investigated. The fire takes 
place at six locations, i.e., upstream of the first vertical 
shaft pair, at the pair, downstream of the pair, at the 
interchange ducts, downstream of the ducts, and at the 
second vertical shaft pair.  The fire size considered 
includes 10 MW, 20 MW, and 100 MW.  The 
backlayering effect and smoke flow phenomenon can be 
more closely examined within each of the regimes 
associated to different range of Ventilation number.  A 
section of the Hseuhshan Tunnel including vertical shafts 
and interchange ducts was considered in the present 
study.  Under a short-loop ventilation scheme, the smoke 
may spread to the opposite tunnel through interchange 
duct.  If the ventilation is reduced to its 50% capacity, 
the temperature in the tunnel actually increases.  
However, the temperature may decrease if the long-loop 
ventilation scheme is activated.  Because of the 
complication of the tunnel layout, the smoke propagation 
becomes more complicated accordingly.  All the cases 
investigated in this study have a corresponding Ve of less 
than 4.  This suggests that there always occurs a 
backlayering effect.  This hypothesis has been validated 
through the visualization of upward smoke velocity 
component.  
KEYWORDS: Hseuhshan Tunnel, tunnel fires, vertical 
shafts, interchange ducts, smoke flow, Computational 
Fluid Dynamics. 
 
2. INRODUCTION 
When a fire occurs in a road tunnel, one of the most 
importance measurements taken by tunnel operators is to 
control the spreading of smoke effectively within a very 
short among of time.  By nature, tunnel is public facility 
with long and narrow underground constructions.  Since 
it is characterized with enclosure on transverse sides and 
therefore demands unique fire precaution.  A tunnel fire 
poses even greater threat to the public safety and 
properties than regular warehouse fire.  Apparently, the 
fire control of a tunnel appeals to high attention.  The 
immediate measurement to control the spreading of 
smoke lies in the hand of tunnel ventilation system and 
its corresponding ventilation schemes.  As a matter of 
fact, the design of ventilation scheme is therefore 
depends strongly on the nature of the tunnel layout.   
The 12.9-km Hsuehshan Tunnel consists of two 
single-bore unidirectional tunnels designated for one-
way traffic.  There are two lanes in each bore.  Along the 
tunnel, there exist three pairs of vertical shafts (also 
known as stack exhausts).  Between two consecutive 
vertical shafts, there is a pair of interchange ducts.  Each 
pair of vertical shafts serves to bring fresh air into and at 
the same time removes contaminated air from the tunnel.  
Conversely, the interchange duct allows the mixing of 
 3 
carefully designed structured orthogonal mesh was 
constructed for the sake of a more effective 
computational process.  Once the grid system was 
ready, it was imported into the FLUENT solver.  A 
typical computational time for a case could range 
from 1.5 day to about 3 days.  A grid refinement test 
has been performed and it was confirmed that the 
grid density employed here has no significant effect 
on the computational results but has tremendously 
increased the computational time.  The numbers of 
elements in this work are about 970,000. 
Using FLUENT, assigning boundary conditions 
are easy for this case as non-slip boundary conditions 
are applied at the surfaces of the tunnel solid walls 
and pressure outlet are prescribed on the tunnel 
openings.  Fan velocity was calculated based on each 
fan area and its corresponding flow rate.  Then, these 
values of fan velocity were applied on the fans 
installed in the vertical shafts and interchange ducts 
as well as on the jet fans installed along the tunnel.  
The fire source is assumed to be the inflammation of 
pure Heptanes.  Even though the fire size and heat 
release rate from a burning car is not identical to 
those from burning Heptanes, Heptanes is the most 
frequently used fuel in pool fire testing in enclosure 
and tunnel fires.  For this reason, this work has 
chosen Heptanes to serve as the fire source.  
 
4. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
Computational simulations of Hsuehshan Tunnel 
fire have been successfully performed in this work using 
FLUENT.  According to case study, many factors can be 
the source of tunnel fire.  Among these factors, three of 
the most critical ones are the transportation of flammable 
and explosive goods or of dangerous chemicals through 
the tunnel, the mechanical failures of aged vehicle 
traveling in the tunnel, and traffic accident leading to 
uncontrolled severe fire. 
Figures 1 display the temperature profiles due to a 
fire of 10 MW in the Hsuehshan Tunnel.  The only 
difference among cases A to F is the location of the fire 
source, as listed in detail in Table 1.  The black triangular 
symbols ▲ in the figures indicate the locations where the 
tunnel fire takes place.   
In Figure 1(a), the temperature almost immediately 
downstream of the fire source reaches over 2500°C.  At 
this region, the combustion of heptanes has resulted in an 
extremely hot and thick fatal smoke flow.  As the smoke 
propagates downstream, it meets the fresh-air by-pass 
duct (i.e., the connecting point between the road tunnel 
and the duct of the first intake vertical shaft) and the by-
pass duct blockage forces the smoke to flow in the lower 
portion of the road tunnel cross section.  Once the smoke 
arrives at the duct of the first exhaust vertical shaft, it 
splits into two streams, one leaving the tunnel system 
immediately through the vertical shaft while the other 
moves further downstream.  The temperature distribution 
within the tunnel under the same ventilation conditions if 
the fire source is located between the first vertical shaft 
pair is depicted in Figure 1(b).  By comparison with the 
previous case, it is found that the spread of hot smoke 
flow is less severe in this case.  However, the highest 
temperature within the tunnel also goes beyond 2500°C.  
Obviously, the temperature of hot smoke leaving the 
tunnel system through the first exhaust vertical shaft has 
increased tremendously.   
In case C as shown in Figure 1(c), the fire source is 
located slightly downstream of the fresh air by-pass duct.  
In this case, the extent of hot smoke whose temperature 
is greater than 1000°C has been restricted to a relatively 
confined area.  The smoke flow emitted from the fire 
source propagates downstream along the traffic direction 
until it reaches the interchange duct.  Through the duct, 
the smoke invades the opposite road tunnel where it is 
then removed from the tunnel system.  It is remarkable to 
point out that the highest temperature in this case has 
dramatically dropped about 300°C.   
It is extremely surprise to see that when the fire 
source is located between two consecutive interchange 
ducts, the temperature of the smoke flow is actually the 
lowest among the 6 locations investigated in this study.  
At this fire location, the heat from the fire source is 
effectively removed both upstream and downstream of 
the fire source.  For this reason, the highest temperature 
of the smoke flow is only about 1000°C. 
In the following case, the fire source is located 
downstream of the interchange duct, as clearly indicted 
in Figure 1(e).  In the beginning, when the fire starts, part 
of the hot smoke propagates to the second pair of vertical 
shaft where it is supposed to be fully removed from the 
tunnel system.  Unfortunately, because of the presence of 
the bypass duct right next to the second inlet vertical 
shaft and the flow entrainment that takes place 
downstream of its exit, part of the hot smoke is actually 
forced to move further downstream.   
As demonstrated in Figure 1(f), the temperature 
distribution associated to the case where the fire source is 
located between the second pair of vertical shaft.  The 
pattern of the smoke flow is generally less severe than 
that shown in Figure 1(e).  It is sound to see that the 
temperature of the smoke is relatively low because its 
temperature is less than 1200°C.  Not only so, the hot 
smoke is effectively removed from the tunnel system 
through the second exhaust vertical shaft.  Unfortunately, 
it is still observed that the jet flow from the bypass 
entrains the smoke so that it flows further downstream. 
Figures 2 also show the hot smoke patterns 
corresponding to fire locations A through F, except that 
the fire size in these cases has been doubled.  As shown 
in Figure 2(a), at a fire size of 20 MW, the hot smoke 
apparently flows to the opposite tunnel through the 
interchange duct.  In this case, the highest smoke 
temperature beyond 3000°C can be seen immediately 
downstream of the fire source.  If the fire takes place 
further downstream between the first pair of vertical 
shafts, it is found that the corresponding smoke flow 
pattern is similar to that of case A.  Also, the temperature 
of the smoke can be as high as 3000°C.  If the fire source 
is downstream of the bypass outlet, the smoke flow 
travels downstream until it reaches the interchange duct.  
Most of the smoke would propagates into the interchange 
duct and then invades the opposite tunnel bore.  It is 
 5 
the smoke flowing further downstream.  Consequently, 
more hot smoke flows to the opposite tunnel via the 
interchange duct and this leads to a higher temperature 
profile in part of the opposite tunnel.  In addition, the 
temperature distribution for case D is also very much 
different between 100% and 50% ventilation capacities.  
Unlike the case with 100% ventilation capacity, the 
backlayering effect associated to 50% ventilation 
capacity is stronger and more apparent.  This allows 
more smoke to flow against the main stream until it 
reaches the interchange duct.  As a result, the 
temperature in the interchange duct is found to be higher 
than the one shown in Figure 1(d).  In case D, a much 
stronger backlayering effect is observed.  As Figure 7(e) 
shows, the buoyancy force is now much stronger than the 
inertia force of the ventilation.  Under this force 
condition, a stronger backlayer thus develops and 
extends up to a location further upstream.  Finally, when 
the fire source is located at the second vertical shaft pair, 
majority of the smoke tends to flow into the duct 
connecting the vertical exhaust shaft leaving not much 
hot smoke to flow towards the exit portal. 
Under long-loop ventilation of 50% capacity, the 
temperature distribution in the tunnel where fire is 
located is demonstrated in Figures 8.  In general, the 
highest temperatures within the tunnel system for all 
cases are apparently lower than those subjected to 100% 
ventilation capacity.  This phenomenon seems doubtful 
in the beginning.  However, Chow et al [4] have long 
been pointed out that the increase in ventilation does not 
guarantee a suppression of fire source.  This is because 
an increase in ventilation, on one hand, suppresses 
backlayering effect, but on the other hand provides more 
oxygen which promotes combustion.   
Backlayering effect is an important issue requiring 
extra attention in the study of tunnel fires.  There are 
several approaches to visualize the backlayering effect.  
In this study, the distribution of velocity component in 
the direction against the ventilation is shown in Figures 9.  
This approach is chosen over others because it suits the 
characteristics of backlayering effect better.  Although 
the distributions of parameters, such as, visibility and 
temperature, are more graphically attractive, the criterion 
differentiating the backlayer from the main stream is 
technically quite ambiguous.  In contrast, the use of 
velocity component against the main ventilation is very 
suitable to outline the shape of the backlayering effect 
even though this parameter does not generate a sounding 
plot.  In case A, Figure 9(a) shows that there exists an 
advancing backlayering effect allowing the smoke to 
propagate all the way until it reaches the upstream portal.  
In contrast, a few regions with velocity component 
against the main stream are found in Figure 9(b).  Even 
so, it is important to recognize that only those red in 
color is associated to the backlayering effect while the 
others are generally related to the geometry of the tunnel 
layout.  When fire is emitted from the fire source right 
below the fresh air inlet duct, the smoke flows against 
the main stream.  This backlayering effect appears to be 
a two-section phenomenon because the ceiling of the 
fresh air inlet duct has lowered the overall tunnel ceiling.  
The region of upwards flow on the left has very limited 
direct relationship with the backlayering effect.  It is 
actually a swirl flow resultant of the force balance 
between the main stream inertia and the buoyancy forces.  
On the other hand, the region of upward velocity 
component on the right is related to the induced flow 
phenomenon due to the fresh air inlet duct.  In case C 
where fire source is located slightly downstream of the 
vertical shaft inlet duct, there are two regions whose 
smoke flow actually travels against the main stream.  
This peculiar backlayering effect is actually a reflection 
of tunnel geometrical layout.  The upper backlayering 
effect is directed into the fresh air inlet duct while the 
lower backlayering effect is directed right below the inlet 
duct.  If the fire source is located between the 
interchange ducts, it is found that, based on Figure 9(d), 
the backlayering effect spans more than 90 m.  However, 
the shape of the backlayering effect is very unusual 
under the influence of the interchange ducts.  As shown 
in Figure 9(e), it is found that although the upwards 
velocity component region spans more than 90 m 
upstream, there exists a peculiar region on top of the 
tunnel floor.  It is important to point out that this region 
has nothing to do with the backlayering effect.  As a 
matter of fact, it is a phenomenon similar to a jet 
impingement due to the flow from the interchange duct.  
In case F, the smoke appears to be a step phenomenon.  
This is because the smoke immediately produced by the 
fire flows upstream right below the fresh air inlet duct 
until it reaches the edge of the duct and raises further 
until it is right below the tunnel ceiling 
 
Figures 10 demonstrate the backlayering effect for 
cases A through F in the tunnel if the long-loop 
ventilation is activated.  It is discovered that the 
backlayering effects associated to case A for both short- 
and long-loop ventilation schemes appeared to be 
identical.  This is no surprising because the location of 
the fire source is so close to the tunnel entrance that the 
flow field in this region is hardly influenced by the 
ventilation scheme.  If the fire source is somewhere 
further downstream, as in case B, a remarkable 
backlayering effect is also identified below the ceiling 
and fresh air inlet duct from Figure 10(b).  However, 
there exists a peculiar region where the flow actually 
flows against the main stream.  Although this region 
does not represent the actual backlayering effect, its 
presence indicates the mixing phenomenon upstream of 
the backward traveling smoke flow. 
The backlayering corresponding to case C is shown 
in Figure 10(c).  This peculiar backlayering effect is 
similar to that in Figure 9(c) for it is also a reflection of 
tunnel geometrical layout.  The upper backlayering effect 
flows directly below the tunnel ceiling and slightly flows 
into the fresh air inlet duct.  At the same time, the weaker 
lower backlayering effect propagates upstream below the 
inlet duct.   In this figure, it is found that there is a region 
of upward velocity component at the location roughly 90 
m away from the tunnel inlet.  This region also reflects 
the change in tunnel geometry may perturb the flow field 
promoting additional flow mixing.  If the fire source is 
 7 
FIGURES AND CAPTIONS 
    
(a) case A (b) case B (a) case A (b) case B 
    
(c) case C (d) case D (c) case C (d) case D 
    
(e) case E (f) case F (e) case E (f) case F 
 
Figure 1.  Schematics of high temperature current of a 
fire source of 10 MW at different fire locations under 
short-loop ventilation (unit: °C). 
 
Figure 2.  Schematics of high temperature current of a 
fire source of 20 MW at different fire locations under 
short-loop ventilation (unit: °C). 
 
 
 
 
    
(a) case A (b) case B (a) case A (b) case B 
    
(c) case C (d) case D (c) case C (d) case D 
    
(e) case E (f) case F (e) case E (f) case F 
 
Figure 3.  Schematics of high temperature current of a 
fire source of 100 MW at different fire locations under 
short-loop ventilation (unit: °C). 
 
Figure 4.  Schematics of high temperature current of a 
fire source of 10 MW at different fire locations under 
long-loop ventilation (unit: °C). 
 
 9 
 
   (a) case A 
 
(a) case A 
 
 
 
 
 (b) case B  (b) case B 
 
 
 
 
 (c) case C  (c) case C 
 
 
 
 
 (d) case D  (d) case D 
 
 
 
 
 (e) case E  (e) case E 
 
 
 
 
 (f) case F  (f) case F 
 
Figure 9.  Distributions of velocity component against 
ventilation current of a fire source of 10 MW at different 
fire locations under short-loop ventilation (unit: m/s). 
  
Figure 10.  Distributions of velocity component 
against ventilation current of a fire source of 10 
MW at different fire locations under short-loop 
ventilation (unit: m/s). 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Ventilation number and its corresponding regimes for backlayering effect. 
 
 
