一、摘要
由於人類大量開發及使用石化能源，使地球幾千萬年來所蘊藏的石化能源日益短缺。
此外，造成大量二氧化碳排放，為全球溫室效應之主因，使全球暖化及氣候異常問題日趨
嚴重。環保議題逐漸受到重視，人類於能源應用問題上，面臨能源不足與全球暖化兩大問
題，如何提高能源設備使用效率，以及開發新能源，實為目前減緩全球暖化及尋求永續能
源發展之首要措施。
考量國際能源科技發展趨勢並依據國內歷次重大會議結論，再生能源之研發與利用分
為五大重點方向：太陽光電、太陽熱能、生質能、風力發電、海洋能。經濟部能源局也規
劃召開「98 年全國能源會議」，針對永續發展與能源安全、能源管理與效率提升、能源價
格與市場開放、能源科技與產業發展四大核心議題進行重要問題討論，從國際整體資源著
眼，勾勒出 2005~2025 年各種發電技術之能源配比，期望產、官、學、研共同研發能源與
環境之解決方案。而風力發電正是分散式再生發電的主流，也是再生能源中少數已商業運
轉，且符合經濟效益的發電方式。因此，風力發電技術的開發已成為能源科技中極為重要
的課題。
本研究以 ZigBee及藍牙無線網點技術為基礎的無線通訊網路，將小型風力發電運轉參
數傳送至數公里外的監控中心，與有線傳輸系統共同驗證系統正確性。資料傳輸技術分為
無線傳輸與有線傳輸兩大主幹。平時資料蒐集與系統運作監視以有線傳輸為主，以保障通
訊品質穩定。資料驗證輔以無線通訊系統，也可以間接保障有線系統故障時，監視機制仍
能有效運作。有線通訊系統架構在 89C51為核心的區域控制晶片，每一個風力發電系統透
過以 89C51為核心的控制單板將數據資料蒐集後，即時傳輸至中繼站(RS422介面傳輸距離
約 1公里，須以中繼站的方式傳送至監視中心)，中繼站再將資料傳送至監視中心。區域控
制晶片形成區域網路架構，中繼站與中繼站之間用交握式(hand-shaking)做資料交換；與監
視中繼站採用 ID識別碼作星狀連結；中繼站與監視中心伺服器電腦以 time-sharing 方式達
到及時控制的方式。
關鍵詞：小型風力發電機組運轉、再生能源、有線與無線資料傳輸、Zigbee、藍牙
二、文獻探討
國內風力發電的開發，已有下列成果：台電公司目前訂定 3 期實施風力計畫。茲分別
摘要說明如下，「第一期計畫」包括台北石門、屏東恆春、桃園大潭、桃園大園觀音、台中
電廠、台中港區及新竹香山等廠址，共設置 60部風力機組，總裝置容量約 9.9萬瓩，預估
每年發電量可達 2億 7千萬度。「第二期計畫」包括彰濱工業區線西區及崙尾區、雲林麥寮、
台北林口及雲林四湖等廠址，共設置 58部風力機組，總裝置容量約 11.6萬瓩，預估每年發
電量可達 3億 4千萬度。「第三期計畫」包括彰濱工業區線西區、彰化王功、雲林麥寮、桃
園大潭等廠址，共設置 28部風力機組，總裝置容量約 5.6萬瓩，預估每年發電量可達 1億
6 千萬度。台電並規劃擴大澎湖風力發電計畫，並進行西部沿海海堤區域及離岸式風力發
電可行性研究，台電希望將風力發電廠址擴展至西部淺海區域。
除了台電自行發展風力發電計畫外，民間業者也積極投入風力發電系統的開發。台塑
集團的台朔重工公司在麥寮離島工業區建設六輕風力發電廠，裝置了四座單機容量 660kW
的風力發電機，裝置容量達 2.64MW。而天隆紙業公司在新竹縣竹北海濱建設風力發電廠，
兩座發電機的總裝置容量達 3.5MW。此外，『台灣電力股份有限公司』再生能源電能收購
作業要點的規定，再生發電的收購費率為每度 2元，額度為 600MW。已有英華威竹南風場、
英華威大鵬風場、新豐風場等業者與台電簽訂購電合約。因此，在國內風力發電的發展是
可以預期的。依據能源局的規劃，至 2010年台灣風力發電裝置容量將達 2159MW，其所需
的設備市值將近 700 億元台幣，考慮國內龐大內需市場與國際商機，積極投入風力發電技
術之開發，對台灣產業而言實有其必要性與急切性。
三、研究目的
國內長期欠缺高功率電力電子技術及風力發電機之發展技術，因此雖然有試驗型的商
轉風力發電系統，但仍較難切入大型風機之產業鏈。藉由國科會專題計畫之實行，除了可
推廣風力發電之再生能源觀念之外，並建立國內各地區風力發電系統的實際發電資料庫、
提升我國自製研發能力、強化風力產業結構與全球市場競爭力，最終以具體落實風力發電
系統的建立與應用為目標，以因應未來石化能源短缺的危機。
聖約翰科技大學位於台灣北海岸，本地區已被評估為全省具有風力發電潛能的數個地
區之一，具有發展風力發電的條件，以地域性的特質而言，本校最適合於發展風力發電系
統。本校為推動能源教育，於 2001年即架設一部 1.5kW之風力發電機於電資大樓十樓屋頂
平台，已有長期運轉的經驗，硬體基礎設施優良，且現有場地的風能條件都非常良好，但
風力機資訊還是以有線的方式傳輸，維修較不易線路較複雜。現今本校又增設三座風力發
電機，未來預計採取以無線及有線的同步傳輸的方式傳送風力機資訊，將無線通訊技術運
用於風力發電系統當中。
四、系統功能
1. 風力發電機運作時，裝設在風力機內的藍牙傳輸模組能直接利用風力機所發出的電
供應電源，並對電池充電，當風力發電機因風力不足停止運作時，傳輸系統能可持
續監測。
2. 透過有線及無線雙重的傳輸設計，以保障通訊品質穩定，也間接保障有線或無線系統故
障時，監視機制仍能有效運作。
3. 收集風機內部的運轉參數及外部運轉環境參數傳送至監控中心並加以統整存檔建立資料
庫，便於日後查詢。
4. 管理人員可使用電腦或是掌上型 PDA透過無線網路，即可在沒有距離的侷限下，連
結網站即時監視風力機運轉參數變化及查詢歷史記錄。
圖 2 系統方塊圖
本研究是以 FlexiPanel公司生產的 LinkMatik 2.0藍牙模組為平台，藍牙系統是一種依
據 IEEE 802.15.4，使用 2.4GHz ISM頻段的無線跳頻收發系統，其定義了 79個跳頻頻道，
每個頻道間隔 1MHz，跳頻的頻率為 1600秒／次，並且採用時域分割技術（Time-Division
Duplex，TDD）。如圖 3 所示為藍牙通訊協定堆疊架構。其硬體接腳如圖 4 所示， TxD、
RxD 為串列資料傳輸用的傳送與接收接腳，ESC 為硬體控制切換 Command Mode 和 Data
Mode 的接腳，ATN 為連線指示接腳，當其高準位時表示已在連線狀態，此時收到的為資
料；若為低準位時則表示為非連線狀態。
圖 3藍牙通訊協定堆疊（Protocal Stack） 圖 4 LinkMatik 2.0接腳圖
本系統中繼站傳輸介面採用 FT-6251 Zigbee無線傳輸模組，將前端風力機運轉參數回
傳至 PC 監視端，ZigBee 網路拓樸主要分為星狀、樹狀或網狀無線網路三種，本次採用點
對點的方式傳送，如圖 5所示為系統 Zigbee傳輸架構圖。將測量到之信號透過高功率無線
模組傳送到 Coordinator，於戶外開闊空間(無遮蔽狀態)可達 700 公尺之範圍。各端點之資
料由 FT-6250收集，由內建之串列埠透過MAX232之轉接板送至筆記型電腦或是掌上型電
腦接收端，供使用者即時監視後，透過資料庫儲存，以便日後調閱。
將轉換風力機發出之電壓準位降壓至提供充電電路之穩定電壓預設值，如圖 8 中 1 部
分為穩壓電路，當充電 IC電源穩定後以 UC3906設計開始充電，如圖 8中 2部份為充電電
路，充電 IC 會隨著該蓄電池溫度係數變化而改變晶片內部參考電位 Vref 數值，且使密封
鉛酸蓄電池在較大有效溫度範圍內都能達到最佳充電狀態，電瓶規格 6V/2.3Ah，系統額定
電壓 5V/20mA，如圖 9所示為系統放電時間表，系統實測獨立供電時間長達 110小時，極
為穩定。
圖 8 穩壓電路及充放電電路圖 圖 9 系統放時間表
RS-422可由 AM26LS31及 AM26LS32來產生符合 ANSI TIA/EIA-422-B規範的電氣信
號進而實現網路實體層的架設。於是本系統將利用 AM26LS31及 AM26LS32做為發送端與
接收端來架設區域網路。其與 89C51之連接電路如圖 10。中為各站之傳輸界面電路。各站
各有一組傳送及接收。利用非同步串列傳輸協定與其它站進行通信。由於 89C51內部有一
串列通信模組，故只要 89C51內部相關的暫存器設定正確即可滿足要求。
圖 10 RS-422介面設計圖
圖 15 PC
接收端電路圖 圖 16 PC接收端實體圖
本系統利用 Visual Basic 6.0 撰寫一套人機伺服監視介面軟體，以路徑 RS422及 ZigBee
接收風力機編號、電壓、電流、功率、等運轉資訊，如圖 17為監視伺服主畫面。伺服端介
面以傳統類比儀表、七段顯示器、曲線圖等方式，呈現針對單一風力機組資訊，如圖 18為
單機監視圖。並將所接收到的風力資訊，再利用 Visual Basic 6.0結合Microsoft Access 撰
寫一個資料庫建檔程式如圖 19，將所接收到的風力資訊進行分類儲存並建檔，以便供管理
者作進一步之追蹤管理。
圖 17 風力發電監視端參數攫取圖
圖 18 單一風力機台監視圖 圖 19 資料庫查詢圖
Proceedings of  the Eighth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Baoding, 12-15 July 2009 
978-1-4244-3703-0/09/$25.00 ©2009 IEEE 
3316 
CONSTRUCTING INTELLIGENT HOME-SECURITY SYSTEM DESIGN 
WITH COMBINING PHONE-NET AND BLUETOOTH MECHANISM 
CHUN-LIANG HSU1, SHENG-YUAN YANG2, WEI-BIN WU3 
1,3 Department of Electrical Engineering, St. John’s University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
2 Department of Computer and Communication Engineering, St. John’s University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-MAIL: liang1@mail.sju.edu.tw
Abstract: 
This paper was exploring one of serial issues which 
derived from mankind life greatly adopting 3C products 
everywhere when entering 21th century. At present for the 
purpose of insuring more security and convenience of daily life, 
most of advanced countries positively invested much money 
and manpower to research and develop home-security system 
with hi-tech and have achieved great success. Taiwan owned 
many such hi-tech implemented by related manufacturers and 
those benefits coming along with this business created the 
environemnt in which more advanced techniques and 
mechanisms for morden home-security were developed to 
satisfy the need of people. There are two divisions of security 
system: (1) commerical-security system (2) home-security 
system. Since the commerical-security system usually needed 
too much cost to meet the expenditure of ordinary family, the 
paper tried to develop DIY home-security so as to cost down 
the expenditure as well as to improve the mechanism of 
traditional ones with brand-new techniques co-constructed 
with phone-net, speech-function, and Bluetooth modules. 
Keywords: 
Home-Security System, Bluetooth, Phone Net, Remote 
Monitoring. 
1. Introduction 
The current home-security service system in market 
included preventing thieves from intruding, monitoring and 
control system, fire control etc. Even though all of them 
were comprehensive, yet there still were some defects 
among them such as the consumers must construct 
cooperative relationship with security supplier, and this 
condition resulted in high expenditure for service quality as 
well as much difficulty in maintain and discriminating of 
responsibility. In this paper researcher tried to develop one 
set of home-security with easy-operated, DIY form, and 
intelligent system [1], in which the Bluetooth wireless 
transmitting interface replaced traditional ones to make 
circuits more simple and less cost[2], and combined with 
auto dialing and answering phone-net system, alarm system, 
and speech echo function, all those design were in simple 
process in order to make consumers easily set up in living 
space and built a entirely perfect and valid security system. 
In this research we used BT combined with sensors, 
phone-net, and remote control & monitoring system with 
graph interface to construct the DIY home-security system. 
The phone-net was used to start the security system 
outdoors after host leaving the house or off-line the security 
when returning home. Sensors were designed to set up onto 
every door and window and they would start to alarm when 
thieves intruding the house. The system would 
simultaneously notice the host and police nearby with auto 
dialing system through phone-net, and the respond signals 
of sensors would be transmit to servo computer of remote 
control & monitoring system that would be monitored by 
host through computer or PDA far away. All these design 
not only to cost down the manufacturing expenditure in the 
traditional methods so as to let ordinary people DIY, but 
also implement the latest communication techniques into 
home-security system to upgrade the safety and insurance 
of whole security system. 
The techniques adopted in this study included 
intelligent monitoring and control system in home, signals 
processing generated by sensors, UART data transmitting 
interface embedded in wireless BT modules, multi-modules 
net communication among master and slave BT, decoding 
technique of transmitting data package of BT, remote 
control system in phone-net, auto-dialing and answering 
system, and speech recording and broadcasting system in 
phone-net. 
The content of this paper exampled with “ Design 
intelligent DIY home-security system”, in which the 
wireless communication technique of BT was embedded 
and some sensors was applied so as to solve problems as 
much indoors wired work, difficulty for building and 
maintain, and validity and accurate for data transmitting in 
traditional construction; furthermore, first time tried to 
design home-security system combining with 
auto-dialing-answering system in phone-net for scaring 
Proceedings of  the Eighth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Baoding, 12-15 July 2009 
3318 
 
Figure3. Practical work of phone-net control system 
The second part was phone-net control system that 
was consisted of auto-dialing-answering system, speech 
echo system [9], receiving wireless transmitted signals 
system made of BT, LCD for phone No. indicator [10] as 
shown in Fig. 3. The main core Atmel 89C51 [8] 
combined DTMF decoding IC CM8870 and HT9200 IC 
indicating the auto-dial-answering system and receiving 
phone No. The IC ISD1420 was used as speech recording 
function and it could be recorded the warning information 
of alarm triggered signals previously so as to automatically 
notify host that someone was intruding the house. All the 
communication data was transmitted by BT wireless net. 
Fig. 4 showed the circuit blocks of phone-net control 
system. The host (user) could dial the preset codes by 
phone to start the auto-dial-answer system (after leaving 
the house) or directly input the phone No. installed into 
EEROM lest the No. should be missed in case of power 
off. All operating statuses would be displayed on LCD and 
receive or transmit control code through BT wireless net. 
Host could hear the warning speech or answering present 
operating status from his own phone set. 
 
Figure4. Circuit blocks of phone-net control system 
The third part was graph interface system (GIS), 
designed with Visual Basic6.0, appearing on the screen of 
servo PC [13] shown in Fig. 14. Host could directly judge 
the security condition of home from screen or monitor the 
condition from his own PDA screen that was synchronous 
with the screen of servo PC through PC-Anywhere 
software. Fig. 5 showed the practical work of BT wireless 
transmitting module connected by servo PC through 
RS-232 UART interface [11]. Fig. 6 was Circuit blocks of 
BT wireless transmitting in servo PC, in which PC 
controlled BT with software through level-shifting IC 
MAX232 without extra hardware control IC for purpose of 
cost down. 
 
Figure5. Practical work of BT wireless transmitting module 
connected by servo PC through RS-232 
 
Figure6. Circuit blocks of BT wireless transmitting in servo 
PC 
3.2 The hardware and software of alarm system 
 
Figure7. Operating steps of alarm system 
Fig. 7 showed the flowchart of hardware of alarm 
system in which first users could start or close the alarm 
system through pushing keyboard as Fig. 3 or through 
cell-phone outdoors. In Fig. 1, the yellow LED lighting on 
meant the alarm system was started while distinguished 
meant alarm system close. If users were in the house, he or 
she could push key “1” to start the alarm system while “2” 
to close the system. If users want to start the alarm system 
outdoors (actually, most of condition was in this mode that 
Proceedings of  the Eighth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Baoding, 12-15 July 2009 
3320 
 
Figure10. Flow-chart of phone receiving alarm information  
Fig. 11 showed the circuits of decoding Dual-tune 
Multi-Frequency (DTFM) in phone system and 
auto-dial-answer system. The decoding part was designed 
with IC CM8870 which was especially designed to decode 
DTMF signals which were used two different frequencies to 
encode the keys information on phone dialing panel as 
shown in Table 2. When users dialed the key on phone 
panel, the DTFM signal would send to phone receiver in 
house, and the IC CM8870 in the phone of house would 
decode the signals back to its original BCD codes and could 
be recognized by the core CPU 89C51. Since there were 
none in the house, the phone would not be picked up and 
the phone was not connected and the controlled codes could 
not be sent to the phone-net control system, so, the pulsed 
transform ST-71 was design as simulated load to replace the 
resistance of house phone (about 300 Ohms). When phone 
was at stand-by condition, the line voltage between two 
lines of phone-net was DC 46 V~DC 50 V and when phone  
was called in, the voltage would change to Vpp =100V, 
16HZ, sine wave. That meant we could design ring-detected 
circuit which used a rectifier to get up-period of sine wave 
and wave shaped into squared-wave circuit (combined with 
Q4 and PC817) then send to T1 pin of core 8051 to count to 
160 and if still none picked the phone then the simulated 
load would be connected into phone-net to let the phone-net 
connected so as to proceed the next procedures (sending all 
control-codes by user far away the house). 
 
Figure11. Circuits for decoding DTMF and auto-dial-answer 
system 
Table 2. DTMF of keys on phone panel 
 High frequency 
 1209HZ 1366HZ 1477HZ 1633HZ
697HZ 1 2 3 A 
770HZ 4 5 6 B 
852HZ 7 8 9 C 
 
Low frequency
941HZ * 0 # D 
Fig. 12 showed the core 89C51 combined with BT 
module which was responsible for sending control codes of 
alarm information or setting the alarm system. IC 74LS244 
was responsible for sequentially switching two group I/O, 
one was push-button of recording, and the other was 
encoding and decoding for speech signals, and they were 
sharing P2 of 89C51 together. BT module transmitting data 
with TXD and receiving data with RXD which were 
connected to 89C51 and there was set a LED as the 
indicator shown the signals of linking or offline with 
receiving module. 
Fig. 13 showed the circuits of how to record the host’s 
speech and broadcast it afterwards. IC ISD1420 was a 
selected speech function IC including record and 
broadcasting and it offered 20 seconds for record; moreover, 
it offered users some certain section keys matching of 
speech-selected and that meant users need not to record 
some repeated sections. The recorded sections and time 
(seconds) could be determined by program. The recorded 
speech could be amplified by LM386, an audio amplifier IC, 
combined with speaker to broadcast the speech through 
phone. In Fig. 13 the audio signals output VO was 
connected to the output of simulated load in Fig. 11 and 
when the phone was connected the users could hear the 
echo speech from electricity microphone.  
REC (PIN-27) was record-control pin and it must set 
to low-level voltage when starting recording while 
high-level ceasing recording. The condition of being 
recorded was judged by RECLED (PIN-25), which was 
low-level voltage, the LED connected to it would be 
flashing and that meant it was recording. PLAYL (PIN-23) 
or PLAYLE (PIN-24) were pins used to control 
Proceedings of  the Eighth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Baoding, 12-15 July 2009 
3322 
 
Figure16. Synchronous control screen between Servo-PC and 
PDA after linking by PC Any-Where 
4. Conclusion 
Nowadays, in our daily life the home-security system 
was popularly adopted, but in most occasions the security 
system was usually occupied or organized by big insurance 
companies or specific security companies. That means users 
need to pay higher money for management fee to protect 
the safety of their own houses. In this paper we develop 
another home-security system combining with some 
brand-new technologies such as wireless sensor network 
(BT) and speech recognition to design DIY home-security 
system that was not only easy to accomplish the security 
work of people’s houses, but also save much money . On 
the other hand, since the system owns the synchronous 
operation with servo-computer far away, it is easily used for 
intelligent system such as digital-house in the future [14]. 
Acknowledgement 
This research was sponsored by Education Minster of 
Taiwan under the “2008 Subsidizing for Colleges & 
Institutes Integrated Program of Enhanced development”- 
Plan of Integrating Advanced Electrical Energy Techniques 
& Engineering. 
References 
[1] Z.Y. Zhou, “Design of Self-developed Home-security 
and Anti-disaster System”, Master Thesis, Dept. of 
Electrical Engineering, National Cheng-Kong 
University, Tainan, Taiwan, 2002. 
[2] P.L. Lai, “Bluetooth-Resolution for Short Distance 
Communication”, Master Thesis, Dept. of Electronic 
Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science 
and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, 2007. 
[3] H.Y. Liu, “The Study of Equalizer in Wireless 
Communication System”, Master Thesis, Dept. of 
Electrical Engineering, National Cheng-Kong 
University, Tainan, Taiwan, 2003. 
[4] K.H. Tsai, “The Design of Control System for Home 
Information-Appliance through Power-Line”, Master 
Thesis, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, National 
Cheng-Kong University, Tainan, Taiwan, 2001. 
[5] I. B. Liao, “Infrared Remote Control Based on LCD 
Displayer and Speech Synthesizer”, M.S. Theses of 
Electronic Engineering Dept., National Taiwan 
Technology and Science University, 2007. 
[6] I.G. Liu, “The Event-driving for Communication Net 
of Integrated Mobile Phone and Wireless Sensor Net 
work”, Master Thesis, Dept. of Information 
Engineering, National Chiao-Tung University, 
HsinChu, Taiwan, 2003. 
[7] Symantec Crop. PC Anywhere 12.1 Data-book., 2009 
[8] C.L. Hsu and F.S. Chen, 8051/8951 Theory and 
Application in Practical Projects, Chuan-Hwa 
Technology Bookstore, Taipei, Taiwan, 2004. 
[9] S.T. Lin, “The Implementation of Hardware for 
Speech Enhancement System Based on Micro-wave 
Transferring”, Master Thesis Dept. of Electrical 
Engineering, National Cheng-Kong University, 
Tainan, Taiwan, 2005. 
[10] D.H. Chang, “The Improvement for Blinking 
Phenomenon of Mini-scaled LCD Displayer”, Master 
Thesis Dept. of Electrical Engineering, National 
Cheng-Kong University, Tainan, Taiwan, 2007. 
[11] I.C. Fang, “Serial Communication Control of RS-232 
Interface with Visual Basic”, Wen-Kuei Information 
Bookstore Ltd. Corp., Taipei, Taiwan, 2007. 
[12] S.L. Wu, “Implementing Group Robots into 
Home-Security System”, Master Thesis, Dept. of 
Electrical Engineering, National Yun-Lin Technology 
University, YunLin, Taiwan, 2007. 
[13] I.P. Tzu, “Mastering in Visual Basic6 - Basic Design”, 
Ru-Lin Bookstore Ltd. Corp., Taipei, Taiwan, 2007. 
[14] B.C. Chang, “The Study of Security & Service System 
in Digital Home Based on UPnP Techniques”, Dept. 
of Information Engineering, Shu-Te Technology 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 2007. 
[15] V. Chunduru and N. Subramanian, “Effects of Power 
Lines on Performance of Home Control System 
Power Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems,” 
Proc. of International Conference on Power 
Electronics, Drives and Energy Systems, Delhi, India, 
2006, pp. 1-6. 
[16] I.K. Hwang and J.W. Baek, “Wireless Access 
Monitoring and Control System based on Digital 
Door Lock,” IEEE Transactions on Consumer 
Electronics, 53(4), 2007 pp. 1724-1730. 
[17] S.M. Tsai, P.C. Yang, S.S. Wu, and S.S. Sun, “A 
參加2009機器學習暨神經機械學國際研討會
（The 2009 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics）
參與者：徐椿樑副教授
報告內容：(應包括參加會議心得、建議、攜回資料名稱及內容、其他)
2009機器學習暨神經機械學國際研討會（The 2009 International Conference
on Machine Learning and Cybernetics）由中國河北大學及國際電機電子工程師學
會（IEEE）共同主辦，並與 International conference on 2009 Wavelet Analysis and
Pattern Recognition 國際知名會議，假中國河北省保定市電谷錦江國際酒店同時
舉行，會議日期自 98 年 7 月 12 日至 98 年 7 月 15 日止。本人投稿論文：
CONSTRUCTING INTELLIGENT HOME-SECURITY SYSTEM DESIGN WITH
COMBINING PHONE-NET AND BLUETOOTH MECHANISM被大會收錄為Oral
論文。論文集將由 IEEE CS收錄於相關 Proceedings。本會議中共收錄 677篇論
文（Accepted rate約 49% - 677/1384）在 270個各式 Sessions中發表，論文來自
多個國家橫跨亞、澳、歐、非及北美四大洲。
本人親自出席此次會議並發表論文，藉由與會中的經驗分享及問題提問，不
僅瞭解目前在 Intelligent System Application最新的研究趨勢，也啟發了一些未來
的研究方向，更對提問的寶貴建議，感受由深，收獲良多。此次會議本人除了參
加自己發表論文的 Session 外，也參加了幾場有趣的 Sessions：包括 Intelligent
systems、Data mining and knowledge discovery及 Fuzzy systems，聆聽並感受國內
外一流學者的學術氣息與報告風采，除了在心中留下深刻的印象外，更厚植研究
夥伴間的豐富人際關係。會議結束後，順道參觀保定及北京附近的風光，舒暢身
心，為九月到來的開學壓力預儲能量。所以，此行的收穫可說相當豐碩。
希望學校能持續全額補助教師參加國際會議，多鼓勵教師出席國際會議增廣視
野，藉此能與國際間相關研究接軌，不致閉門造車。本人出席此次會議並攜回會
議論文集一本及論文光碟乙片，以及相關的論文徵求 DM，包括 International
Journal of Machine Learning and Cybernetics、IEEE International Conference on
Systems, Man & Cybernetics。
報告內容：(應包括參加會議心得、建議、攜回資料名稱及內容、其他) 
2009 機器學習暨神經機械學國際研討會（The 2009 International Conference on 
Machine Learning and Cybernetics）由中國河北大學及國際電機電子工程師學會（IEEE）
共同主辦，並與 International conference on 2009 Wavelet Analysis and Pattern Recognition
國際知名會議，假中國河北省保定市電谷錦江國際酒店同時舉行，會議日期自 98 年 7
月 12 日至 98 年 7 月 15 日止。本人投稿論文：CONSTRUCTING INTELLIGENT 
HOME-SECURITY SYSTEM DESIGN WITH COMBINING PHONE-NET AND 
BLUETOOTH MECHANISM被大會收錄為 Oral論文。論文集將由 IEEE CS收錄於相
關 Proceedings。本會議中共收錄 677篇論文（Accepted rate約 49% - 677/1384）在 270
個各式 Sessions中發表，論文來自多個國家橫跨亞、澳、歐、非及北美四大洲。 
本人親自出席此次會議並發表論文，藉由與會中的經驗分享及問題提問，不僅瞭解
目前在 Intelligent System Application最新的研究趨勢，也啟發了一些未來的研究方向，
更對提問的寶貴建議，感受由深，收獲良多。此次會議本人除了參加自己發表論文的
Session 外，也參加了幾場有趣的 Sessions：包括 Intelligent systems、Data mining and 
knowledge discovery及 Fuzzy systems，聆聽並感受國內外一流學者的學術氣息與報告風
采，除了在心中留下深刻的印象外，更厚植研究夥伴間的豐富人際關係。會議結束後，
順道參觀保定及北京附近的風光，舒暢身心，為九月到來的開學壓力預儲能量。所以，
此行的收穫可說相當豐碩。 
希望學校能持續全額補助教師參加國際會議，多鼓勵教師出席國際會議增廣視野，藉此
能與國際間相關研究接軌，不致閉門造車。本人出席此次會議並攜回會議論文集一本及
論文光碟乙片，以及相關的論文徵求 DM，包括 International Journal of Machine Learning 
and Cybernetics、IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man & Cybernetics。 
Proceedings of  the Eighth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Baoding, 12-15 July 2009 
3317 
away thieves when sensors setting in home-security system 
were touched off and alarmed, and then the system would 
send warning information to monitoring and controlling 
servo computer, which would execute the mission of 
notifying host, through BT wireless transmitting interface 
[6]. In addition, host could use PC Anywhere [7] to monitor 
the condition appearing in servo computer in home through 
cabled or wireless net. 
2. Related works 
As mentioned above there are two home-security 
network systems and according to its operating function we 
could divide into cabled system and wireless system. In 
literature [15] mainly explored the methods for conducting 
data transmitting with power lines in home environment. In 
spite of the less expenditure and easy construction, the 
transmitting quality was easily disturbed by noise, therefore, 
the method would be difficult to keep the data complete and 
accurate and cause problems in safety. In literature [16] 
mainly explored the methods for constructing 
home-security network with TCP/IP standard 
communication protocol layout of wires of which was too 
complicated to meet the demand for modern home. In 
literature [17] mainly explored the methods for constructing 
home-security network in which combined GSM/GPRS 
system with infrared rays fire detecting system. In literature 
[18] mainly explored the methods for constructing 
home-security network with ZigBee wireless sensor 
network combined with kinds of sensors and digital 
electronic door-locks. From the literatures of home-security 
systems mentioned above, the modern design tends to 
wireless structure on account of easy construction and cost 
down. 
Recently owing to the techniques progress of wireless 
communication and consume electronic [3], the wireless 
sensor network was born under unite of both techniques 
which posses functions of communication, data transmitting, 
and sensor. Bluetooth modules were one of them and 
embedded into all popular 3C products such as PDA, cell 
phone, Notebook. The operating frequency of BT is 2.4GHz 
and adopted ISM wireless hoping-frequency system that 
defined 79 hoping-frequency (1600/per sec) channels with 
1MHz interval in Time-Division Duplex (TDD). With such 
special design, BT could guarantee the safety and accurate 
of data transmitting so that it could replace the transmitting 
interface with  in-convenient and dangerous  power line 
[4] and infrared-rays RF ways that easily disturbed by noise 
[5]. 
3. Hardware and software design of security system 
3.1 Structure design of alarm system 
 
Figure1. Practical work of alarm system 
The content of this study were divided into three parts; 
the first one was manufacturing the practical work of alarm 
system including the sensors detecting the intruding of 
windows or doors by strangers in home. The alarm system 
was consisted of magnetic lead-switches, buzzers, 
transmitting modules made of BT as shown in Fig. 1. The 
core of alarm system was Atmel 89C51 single chip [8]. The 
magnetic lead-switches was used to detect whether the 
doors or windows were intruded by strangers and if they 
were really intruded, then the signals would be detected by 
89C51 and the microprocessor would command IO active 
to start the buzzer operating aloud as indicated signals to 
warn the host. Meanwhile the transmitting interface made 
of the BT module Linkmatik2.0 embedded in alarm system 
would link to servo-PC to generate warning information to 
host through auto-dialing-answering system. The LED 
shown in Fig.1 indicated power, linking state of BT, and 
whether the alarm system was working. Fig. 2 indicated the 
system blocks of alarm system in which at first user needed 
to decide to set the alarm-system on and the sensors 
attaching on doors or windows would transmit the signals 
to core CPU in case of being intruded by thieves, and then 
CPU would judge if the condition was corresponding to 
start alarm system and send the warning information to 
monitoring and control servo-PC and phone-net system to 
notify host or police station.  
 
Figure2. Circuit blocks of alarm system 
Proceedings of  the Eighth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Baoding, 12-15 July 2009 
3319 
host left the house then to start the alarm system outdoors), 
first users ought to enter into phone control system and then 
push “9” on his own cell phone to start the system while 
“0” meant close the system. Only if when the alarm system 
was started and so was the lead-switches sensors triggered, 
the alarm system would transmit the preset control phone 
codes to auto-dial-answering system and automatically call 
host to receive warning information. 
 
Figure8. Hardware of alarm system 
Fig. 8 was the circuit of alarm system hardware 
structure in which the core processor 89C51combined with 
BT module and lead-switch sensors. There were 4 
lead-switch sensors that would detect the signal state of 
doors and windows, supposing that stranger intruded the 
house and triggered the lead-switch then the output signal 
would be high(+5V), and all output signals were OR wired 
to IC-74LS32 which receiving any one high signal would 
trigger alarm system; meanwhile, the BT module would 
link to BT module mounting on auto-dial-answer system 
according to presetting ID, eventually, alarm system sent 
control code to auto-dial-answer system to proceed 
necessary action through BT wireless communication. 
3.3 Hardware &software of phone-net control system 
Fig. 9 indicated the flowchart of alarm control system 
set by phone call when users (host) leaving home outdoors 
through the phone-net. The procedures were that user first 
dialed the phone No. of phone in his own house, and after 
the line was connected, user input the password preset by 
himself and if the password was correct then user would be 
able to enter the home-security system [12]. After all the 
procedures were completed, user could input the operation 
code『9』 to start the home-security , 『0』 to close it, or 
『＃』to offline the system. 
The flowchart of the procedures when phone received 
the alarm information was shown In Fig. 10, in which the 
phone would stand by to wait for the alarm information 
after being set, and if the phone received alarm information, 
then the auto-dial-answer system would immediately and 
automatically call the user’s cell phone or the police station 
near by when user didn’t answer the phone. Anyone who 
received the warning phone call from phone-net system 
could hear the echo information in speech to remind the 
host something wrong with his house or being intruded. 
 
Figure9. Alarm-setting procedures by phone-net 
Proceedings of  the Eighth International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Baoding, 12-15 July 2009 
3321 
broadcasting, which should be set “LOW” when started 
broadcasting and if the section of speech finished 
broadcasting, the RECLED  (PIN-25) would become 
“LOW”, successively, setting PLAYL ( PIN-23) or 
PLAYE (PIN-24) “HIGH” to turn off the speech 
broadcasting. 
A0~A7 were used to address the speech sections. A6 
(PIN-9) and A7 (PIN-10) could set as operated mode or 
speech addressing mode. When one of A6 and A7 was 
“LOW”, it was regarded as speech addressing mode and 
this condition would change to operated mode when 
appearing falling edge of PLAYL (PIN-23), PLAYE 
(PIN-24), or REC (PIN-27). MIC (PIN-17) and MIC REF 
(PIN-18) were inputs of audio signals, and ANA IN 
(PIN-20) and ANA OUT (PIN-21) were audio coupled 
circuit. +SP (PIN-14) and −SP (PIN-15) were output 
pins of audio signals that combined with LM386 amplify 
the audio signals and to output speech volume through 
speaker. 
 
Figure12. Circuit of control core 89C51 combined with BT 
module  
 
Figure13. Circuit of Speech recording and broadcasting  
3.4 The interface of system software on servo-PC 
The operating interface of software on servo-PC was 
shown in Fig. 14, in which the alarm system control setting 
was in the area marked by green line, and users (hosts) 
could set the alarm system starting or closing by mouse 
directly selecting the buttons. If the condition comes into 
the alarm status, and that meant someone intruded the 
house and triggered the lead-switches on the door or 
windows, the detected signal would respond to 89C51 core 
on alarm system, the latter would send the information of 
alarm trigger to servo-PC through BT wireless 
communication net, and then there would be an echo 
information of yellow circle, indicated on screen of 
servo-PC as well as the screen on PDA of users anywhere. 
There were three different colors of echo status: white 
circle meant “alarm system not started or off-line”, yellow 
meant “alarm system was triggered and having notified the 
auto-dial-answer system”, and red meant “the alarm system 
was surely started and standby for detecting”. The 
responding system with color circles could replace 
traditional design with CCD images monitoring and cost 
down the expenditure effectively. 
 
Figure14. Main screen of graph operating interface for 
home-security in servo-PC in home 
As mentioned above, users could monitor the status of 
home-security alarm system in his own house through the 
screen on his PDA or cell phone which have the 
synchronous screen as servo-PC in the house with 
pre-installing PC-Anywhere software into both servo-PC 
and PDA. That means users could control any facilities or 
appliance such forgetting turn-off oven or air-conditioning 
anywhere. The operating screen of PC-Anywhere was 
shown in Fig. 15 and 16. 
 
Figure15. Internet remote control software of PC Any-Where 
on servo-PC 
