1計畫摘要：
This project is the second year project of a two-year duration project. The work of the
this project is the implementation of hardware according to the speech recognition algorithm
in the previous year. The FPGA is used to fulfill the speech recognition. For the purpose of
high performance, smaller space and low power dissipation, integer FFT is used to calculate
the MFCC for the HMM-based recognition systems. And then the components of the circuit
can be reduced and the computation time of CPU is lower. This will cause a higher speed for
computation and lower power dissipation without degrading the recognition rates. Besides,
the concept of evolvable hardware is used here for the layout of the circuit. Different
computation circuit and be designed to use the same circuit block in FPGA. This will make
the layout tend to be optimal.
關鍵字：
Speech Recognition, Hidden Markov Model, Integer Fast Fourier Transform, FPGA.
計畫內容：
1. Introduction
The dependence on 3C products for many peoples is higher and higher due to the progression
of IT technology. Consequently, 3C products should have attractive functions and good services. The
interface between 3C product and users becomes quite important. For example, handwritten input,
touch screen monitor and speech recognition are more and more popular recently. On the other
hand, duo to the vast improvement on the manufacture of ICs in recent years, the capacity and the
calculation ability of a chip is dramatically increased. Consequently, the speech recognition can be
implemented in a chip or an embedded system rather than in a computer. Recently, there are many
researches about speech recognition, see for example [1~6], because speech recognition will be a
standard interface in the future.
As for the history of speech recognition, the first recognition platform is Dynamic Time
Warping (DTW) [4] which used dynamic programming [7] to compare target speech and speech
sample in the speech library to find the result of recognition. Later, Artificial Neural Network (ANN)
was proposed to replace DTW for speech recognition. However, because of the structure of ANN
can not be changed after decided, the recognition rate can’t be improved by online learning.  
Recently, Hidden Markov Model (HMM) [8] was widely applied. It can solve the problem of
speech recognition speed and be constructed layer by layer to achieve automatic speech recognition
(ASR).
For the purpose of hardware implementation on a chip, a faster method should be adopted as
the speech recognition platform. This project will compare the speech recognition speed on FPGA
chip HMM to find a suitable method for the speech recognition implemented on a chip. Since the
computation for the speech recognition in ANN is performed simply by add and multiplication while
those in HMM is performed by using probability/statistic calculation, it is expected that the latter
method will in general cost much computation time. Moreover, the training of ANN by
gradient-descent method which is used traditionally always gets a local optimal design. In this
project, ANN will be trained by genetic algorithm to find a design which is more close to the global
optimal solution to enhance the speech recognition rate.
Before the recognition process, speech signal have to be pre-processed. After these processes
which include speech sampling, point detection, pre-emphasis, hamming window and feature capture,
we will get the features of the speech at hand. The method used in this project for feature capture
of speech signal is Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficient (MFCC) [8]. The process of Mel-frequency
Cepstrum Coefficient has many floating-point operations which will take much time and power of
32.5. Feature Capture
In speech recognition, the methods for feature capture can be divided into two fields: one is
time domain analysis, and the other is frequency domain analysis. The time domain analysis is a
direct computation and is then time-saving. However, frequency domain analysis has to undergo
Fourier Transform first. So, it needs greater operations and is more complicated and hence needs
much more computation time. The popular feature capture methods are Linear Predict Coding,
Cepstrum Coefficient, Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficient, etc. Because the operation of
Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficient is closer to that of human ears for recognizing speech, it is
adopted to be the method of feature capture for speech recognition .
3. Speech recognition platform
After speech pre-processing, we get the features of speech and then we feed these features into
recognition platform. This project adopts Discrete Hidden Markov Model (DHMM) and Artificial
Neural Network (ANN) as the recognition platform. The following subsections introduce the two
platforms on speech recognition.
3.1. Hidden Markov Model
The HMM is a double layers random process. Transfer of hidden states corresponds to the
transfer of observations. Each model of HMM can describe a specific speech. The frames of a speech
are the observations used to estimate the hidden states. The target speech can be recognized by
calculating the probability of the HMM model. The model with highest probability in all HMM
models represent the most possibility of the recognized speech corresponding to the model [8].
3.2. Vector Quantization
Due to the observations (features) are a finite set in DHMM. Feature vector must be classed
as the observations by vector quantization [8]. This project uses K-means algorithm to finish vector
quantization.
4. Hardware experimental results
In speech pre-processing stage, the recording format is 8kHz, single channel, and 16bits length.
The length of frame is 256 sampling points. The overlapping rate of frame is 50%. We adopted for
time domain point detection and calculated the threshold by the following formula:
   NniE
K
nEThreshold
k
i
 

1;
1
max%5.7
1
E(n) represents the energy of nth frame; N is the number of frames.
In Integer FFT stage, right shift and multiplication will make overflow. This problem broke the
recognition rate in experiment. We must retain space to solve overflow. If the length of variable is
too long, the computing time will be huge; If the length of variable is too short, the recognition rate
will drop. We use 32 bits length for variables.
About HMM, we use 7 hidden states, 64 observations for HMM; every model starts at state 1 and
state only can jump to next or next 2 state, see Fig. 2 for detail. Fig. 3 presents the frames
corresponds to HMM.
Fig. 2 HMM states structure
57 85 15 0.85
8 100 0 1
9 100 0 1
Table 2 The speech recognition rate by using Integer FFT
Speech Crrect
(time)
Wrong
(time)
Recognition
rate
(%)
Total
(%)
0 98 2 0.98
0.954
1 92 8 0.92
2 97 3 0.97
3 99 1 0.98
4 89 11 0.89
5 100 0 1
6 100 0 1
7 79 21 0.79
8 100 0 1
9 100 0 1
Table 3 Computation time on FPGA for speech recognition
Process Average time(sec.)Float FFT Integer FFT
Point
detection 0.047
Pre-emph
asis 0.049
Hamming
window 0.013
FFT 2.756 0.314
Feature
capture 0.15
Recogniti
on 0.747
5. CONCLUSIONS
Speech pre-processing is a complicated computing especially for embedded system which is much
slower than PC. The idea combining Integer FFT with HMM to implement the speech recognition
system can reduce the computing time of FFT effectively and hold the recognition rate.
The speech recognition system implemented on a FPGA chip is shown in this project. The
experimental results reveal that the speed of speech recognition is much improved by using Integer
FFT for feature capture.
References
[1] C. Neves, A. Veiga, L. Sa, and F. Perdigao, “Efficient Noise-robust Speech Recognition
Front-end Based on The ETSI Standard,” International Conference on Signal Processing, pp.
609–612, 2008.
7可供推廣之研發成果資料表
■ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 日期：100 年 1 月 20 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：智慧型機器人之嵌入式語音辨識及行為控制系統研發
(II)
計畫主持人：國立高雄大學資工系
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-390 -029 -
學門領域：資訊學門（人工智慧）
技術/創作名稱 快速語音辨識晶片設計
發明人/創作人 潘欣泰
技術說明
中文：
使用場可程式閘陣列晶片(Field Programmable Gate Array, FPGA)做
為實現語音辨識架構的平台，而其他周邊電路如濾波、特徵值計
算、語音編解碼、輸出等相關電路，亦將整合在該 FPGA 晶片中，
如此，可縮小整個語音辨識控制電路的尺寸並降低所使用的電子元
件。以整數 FFT 提高硬體計算速度。
英文：
The FPGA chip is used as the platform to implement the Hidden
Markov Model (HMM) in this project. Furthermore, the other circuits
such as filter, characteristic value computing circuits, encoder/decoder
and output circuits etc. will are all integrated in this chip. This will
make the scale of speech recognition module and the number of
elements of the module both smaller. Integer FFT is used to speed up
the speech recognition system.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
服務型機器人語音控制、資訊家電語音控制
技術特點
體積小、辨識率高、計算速度快
推廣及運用的價值
語音辨識控制的功能是未來消費性電子相關產品的一種發展趨
勢。然而語音辨識控制目前仍以個人電腦為主要辨識平台，這不但
使得一般語音辨識系統的價格昂貴，且體積過大，無法嵌入到小型
可攜式的電子設備上，再加上對非特定語者辨識效果不佳，導致語
音辨識控制的功能一直無法產品化。本專利主要是實作出智慧型語
音辨識晶片，希望能達到（一）辨識平台晶片化（二）對非特定語
者的辨識效率提高（三）較快的計算速度（四）較少的元件數。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發
成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
附件二
表 Y04
多組本質模態函式(Intrinsic Mode Function, IMF)，針對不同本質模態函式做語音辨識
上之實驗，以期能找出本質模態函式與語音雜訊間之關係，並以實數型基因演算法找
出最佳本質模態函式組合參數，將分離出之本質模態函式依組合參數還原成語音後，
能降低雜訊之干擾，提升語音辨識系統抗雜訊之能力。
二、與會心得
本次會議在發表論文相當多，且參加的學者很多元，有來自很多不同國家的學者參
與，包含 Singapore, USA, Canada, Australia, Japan, Korea, Sweden, British, Malaysia, India,
Norway, Finland and Philippines 等國家，研討會的國際化程度相當高，這是值得國內舉
辦之國際研討會學習的地方。過程中，與其他與會學者進行一些討論，獲得相當多的寶
貴意見，但亦發現不同國家所說的英語口音相當重，常常會通不太懂，所以還是要督促
自己多參加國際性的研討會，多習慣不同的英語表達。
本次研討會的 Keynote speaker 有日本的教授 Prof. Fumitoshi Matsuno(Department of
Mechanical Engineering and Science Kyoto University)及香港的教授 Prof. Wang Jun (The
Chinese University of Hong Kong)，分別發表現今機電系統及電子電路的發展趨勢，目前
系統的發展都已經朝著系統整合的趨勢發展，各領域的技術都必須和其他領域結合，所
以跨領域是目前技術的一個重要課題，國內的教育對培養跨領域的人才變得非常迫切也
非常必要。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略)
無
四、建議
1 此次承蒙國立高雄大學研發處及國科會工程處計劃補助，方得成行，在此先
致上十二萬分的謝意，也希望爾後國科會及教育部對於參加國際知名會議
之學者均能大力支持。
2 國內有不少研究此方面的學者，而每年也都會在相關的國際或國內研討會看
到國內學者的投稿和參與，增加國內外學者互相切磋交流的機會，甚至彼
此合作，這是相當可喜的現象，除了鼓勵國內學者投稿國外重要會議，也
希望國內專家學者能持續獲得補助出國參加國際研討會。
3 建議學生多多參與此類國際會議，除了能夠開拓國際觀，增長見聞，熟悉各
國文化，實用英文的大好機會。在學術方面，直接與外國學者接觸，接受
提問，傾聽建議，都能夠提升學生面對外國人的反映和能耐，應鼓勵學生
參與，並且適當提供補助，激勵學生藉此為目標，主動增加自我實力，提
高個人競爭力，間接提高國家人才的培養，以及學術研究實力。但經費部
分，僅補助主持人出席國際研討會費用，未來若能增加補助研究助理的出
The Speech Recognition Chip Implementation on FPGA 
Cheng-Yuan Chang 
Department of Electrical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian 
University, Jhongli 320, Taiwan R.O.C. 
Email: ccy@cycu.edu.tw 
Ching-Fa Chen 
Department of Electronic Engineering, Kao Yuan University, 
Kaohsiung County 821, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Email:cfchen@cc.kyu.edu.tw 
Shing-Tai Pan 
Department of Computer 
Science and Information Engineering, National University of 
Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung 811, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Email:stpan@nuk.edu.tw 
Xu-Yu Li 
Department of Computer Science and Information 
Engineering, National University of Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung 
811, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Email:alvpkll@yahoo.com.tw 
 
Abstract—This paper includes the exploration of using HMM 
algorithm to construct speech recognition platform which be 
speeded up on embedded system of FPGA by Integer FFT. On 
embedded system the computing speed is not as fast as 
personal computer. This will causes that speech recognition 
takes much time and power; and further, it didn’t satisfy the 
real time requirement. In this paper, we use Integer FFT to 
replace Float FFT. It will be shown that the recognition rate is 
only lose a little but reduce much computing time. 
Keywords- Speech Recognition; Hidden Markov Model; 
Integer Fast Fourier Transform; FPGA 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Human dependence on 3C products is higher and higher 
with technology progress. Products must have attractive 
functions and good services. The interface between product 
and user is quite important too. For example handwritten 
input and touch screen monitor are favored by users. 
Recently, there are many researches about speech 
recognition [1~6] because speech recognition is a standard 
interface in the future. 
According to the developing time, the first recognition 
platform is Dynamic Time Warping(DTW) [4] which used 
dynamic programming [7] to compare target speech and 
sample speech to find the result of recognition. Later, 
Artificial Neural Network(ANN) was proposed to replace 
DTW for speech recognition. Because of the  structure of 
ANN can not be changed after decided, therefore the 
recognition rate can’t be improved by online learning. Last, 
Hidden Markov Model(HMM) [8] was widely applied. It 
can solve the problem of speech speed and be constructed 
layer by layer to achieve automatic speech 
recognition(ASR). 
Before recognition, speech signal have to be beforehand 
processed. After these processes which are include speech 
sampling, point detection, pre-emphasis, hamming window 
and feature capture we get the features of speech than we 
can count the probabilities of every model and find the 
model which has highest probability is the result of 
recognition. 
Now the researches of speech recognition put emphasis 
on how to recognize under noise environment and speed up 
the recognition. The feature of speech signal which was 
used in this paper is Mel-Frequency Cepstrum 
Coefficient(MFCC) [8]. 
The process of Mel-frequency Cepstrum Coefficient has 
many floating-point operations which will take much time 
and power of embedded system. We use Integer FFT [9] to 
replace Float FFT [10].  
II.  SPEECH  PRE-PROCESSING 
A.  Speech  Sampling 
The continuous speech data which was recorded by 
microphone must be transformed into discrete data because 
computer only can process discrete data.  All values which 
were recorded at any fixed time can describe the wave of 
speech. Sampling frequency is an important reason for loss 
of speech. Higher frequency with less loss but has more data; 
lower frequency with more loss but has less data. According 
to sampling theorem [11]: sampling frequency can not 
smaller than 2 times bandwidth of signal; we decide 8kHz to 
be sampling frequency because the bandwidth of speech is 
not higher than 4kHz. 
B.  Point Detection 
The speech sound signals after recording include speech 
segments, silence segments and background noise. How to 
separate speech segments and silence segments is called 
“End-Point Detection (EPD)”, shown as the following Fig. 1. 
If the unnecessary parts are removed, the timeframe for 
comparison will decrease, and the time for reaction will 
speed up. 
There are many algorithms for speech sound signal EPD, 
2010 2nd International Conference on Mechanical and Electronics Engineering (ICMEE 2010)
V2-6 Volume 2C978-1-4244-7480-6/$26.00      2010 IEEE
In which, e N
j
nW
π2−
= ;  and N is the number of sampling 
points in an audio frame. 
When we calculate DFT, we can acquire high efficiency 
by decomposing and calculating it to be many serial small 
DFT and then figure out. During this process, both the 
symmetry and the cycle of the complex number index 
eW knNjknN ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
−
=
π2 are used. The decomposition of the algorithm is 
based on decomposing the sequence x[n] into many small 
sequences; hence, it is called “Time Division Algorithm”. 
First, the DFT in is decomposed as 
∑ ∑
−
=
−
=
+=+=
1
2
0
1
2
0
2/2/ ][][][][][
N
n
N
n
k
N
nk
N
k
N
nk
N kGWkFWngWWnfkX
 
In which f[n]=x[2n] and g[n]=x[2n+1] are the even sampling 
and odd sampling of x[n]. 
 Figure 2 shows the time division for 8-point FFT. The 
required multiplication 2N  can be descended to be )(log
22
NN . 
 
Fig. 2 The time division for 8-point FFT 
B.  Integer FFT 
On the embedded platform, the floating-point arithmetic 
operation will cost much time. Even if FFT  is used, the 
calculation time for Mel-Frequency Cepstrum Coefficient 
does not conform to the application of real-time as usual. 
Therefore, as for the multiplication and addition for 
floating-points, integer is used for substitute; however, the 
recognition rate decreases accordingly. In Figure 2, 
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
−+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
−==
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
−
N
kj
N
keW
k
N
j
k
N
ππ
π
2sin2cos
2
;          
In Integer FFT, we move the functions of cos and sin to the 
left for n bit; when the multiplication is completed, move 
them to the right for n bit. For the realization of Integer FFT, 
the real and imaginary part of kNW  will be amplified by a 
factor of SF and truncated to a integer before FFT operation. 
These results are then tabulated to accelerate the 
computation time. In the last stage of the operation of 
][kGWkN , the factor 1/SF will be multiplied for recovering 
the original magnitude. We can then obtain an 
approximation of ][kGWkN . The detail operations are 
indicated in Fig. 3.  
 
Fig. 3 Butterfly chart of complex  multiplication  
During the process of FFT calculation, every addition 
may have a bit increase, while the multiplication will raise 
to cN -1bit, in which cN  is the bit number of the multiplier. 
As for the variables of real numbers and imaginary numbers 
stored inside FFT, sufficient storage space is indispensable 
to keep from overflow. 
V.  EXPERIMENT  RESULTS 
In speech pre-processing stage, the recording format is 
8kHz, single channel, and 16bits length. The length of frame 
is 256 sampling points. The overlapping rate of frame is 
50%. We adopted for time domain point detection and 
calculated the threshold by the following formula: 
( )[ ] ( ) NniE
K
nEThreshold
k
i
≤≤+×= ∑
=
1;1max%5.7
1
 
E(n) represents the energy of nth frame; N is the number of 
frames. 
In Integer FFT stage, right shift and multiplication will 
make overflow. This problem broke the recognition rate in 
experiment. We must retain space to solve overflow. If the 
length of variable is too long, the computing time will be 
huge; If the length of variable is too short, the recognition 
rate will drop. We use 32 bits length for variables. 
About HMM, we decide that the HMM has 7 hidden 
states, 64 observations; every model starts at state 1 and 
state only can jump to next or next 2 state like Figure 4. All 
frames corresponds to HMM like Figure 5. 
 
2010 2nd International Conference on Mechanical and Electronics Engineering (ICMEE 2010)
V2-8 Volume 2
PC. The idea combining Integer FFT with HMM to 
implement the speech recognition system can reduce the 
computing time of FFT effectively and hold the  recognition 
rate. 
The speech recognition system implemented  on a FPGA 
chip is shown in this paper. The experimental results reveal 
that the speed of speech recognition is much improved by 
using Integer FFT for feature capture. 
REFERENCES 
[1] C. Neves, A. Veiga, L. Sa, and F. Perdigao, “Efficient Noise-robust 
Speech Recognition Front-end Based on The ETSI Standard,” 
International Conference on  Signal Processing, pp. 609 – 612, 2008. 
[2] J. McAuley, J. Ming, D. Stewart, and P. Hanna, “Subband   
Correlation and Robust Speech Recognition,” IEEE Transactions on 
Speech and Audio Processing, Vol. 13,   pp.956-964,  2005. 
[3] B.A. Sonkamble and D.D. Doye, “An Overview of Speech   
Recognition System Based on The Support Vector Machines,”  
International Conference on Computer and Communication   
Engineering, pp. 768 – 771, 2008. 
[4] C. Wan and L. Liu, “Research and Improvement on Embedded 
System Application of DTW-based Speech Recognition,” 
International Conference on Anti-counterfeiting, Security and 
Identification, pp. 401 – 404, 2008. 
[5] T. Kinjo and K. Funaki, “On HMM Speech Recognition Based on 
Complex Speech Analysis,” Conference on IEEE Industrial 
Electronics, pp. 3477 – 3480, 2006. 
[6] T. Jitsuhiro, T. Toriyama, and K. Kogure, “Robust Speech 
Recognition Using Noise Suppression Based on Multiple Composite 
Models and Multi-pass Search,” IEEE Workshop on Automatic 
Speech Recognition & Understanding, pp.53-58, 2007. 
[7] T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest, and C. Stein, 
Introduction to Algorithms 2nd Editon. McGraw-Hill, 2002. 
[8] X. Huang, A. Acero, and H. Wuenon, Spoken Language Pprocessing 
A Guide to Theory, Algorithm and System Developmen. Pearson, 
2005. 
[9] S. Oraintara, Y.J. Chen, and T.Q. Nguyen, “Integer Fast Fourier 
Transform,” IEEE Transation on SIGNAL PROCESSING, Vol. 50, 
pp. 607-618, 2002. 
[10] A. V. Oppenheim, R. W.Schafer, and J. R Buck, Discrete-Time Signal 
Processing 2nd Edition. Pearson, 2005. 
[11] S. Haykin and B. V. Veen, Signals and Systems 2nd Edition. Wiley, 
2003. 
 
2010 2nd International Conference on Mechanical and Electronics Engineering (ICMEE 2010)
V2-10 Volume 2
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：潘欣泰 計畫編號：98-2221-E-390-029- 
計畫名稱：智慧型機器人之嵌入式語音辨識及行為控制系統研發(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
