characterized charged silica spheres in ethanol6 leads to
strongly nonbarometric distributions. The initial volume
fraction of those salt-free dispersions is ranged from about
10−4 to 510−3. The deviation is attributed to internal mac-
roscopic electric field generated by macroscopic separation
of colloidal and counterion charges. An almost homogeneous
electric field in the dispersion is suggested in the theories and
it is observed by Brownian dynamic simulations at low Cou-
lombic coupling the dielectric constant of solvent is about
five times of water for a counterion size of 4 Å,9 that is,
there exist excess positive charges from the colloids at the
bottom of the container and, conversely, excess negative
charges from counterions at the top. The dispersion thus be-
haves like the Donnan condenser, with a nearly constant field
building up in the bulk.2,7
In this paper we explore the sedimentation equilibrium
behavior of dilute, salt-free colloidal dispersions by varying
the Coulomb strength and the counterion valency. In such a
simple system, the electrostatic interactions consist of
colloid-colloid repulsion, colloid-ion attraction, and ion-ion
repulsion only. As a result, the origin of the nonbarometric
behavior can be analyzed by the counterion distribution in
addition to the colloid profile. In Sec. II the partition function
is written down to show the important parameters and the
dominant interactions such as colloid-colloid repulsion and
colloid-ion attraction. On the basis of the latter, two
asymptotic limits yielding the barometric profile are ana-
lyzed. In Sec. III we adopt Monte Carlo simulations with
cluster moves to evaluate the partition function numerically.
The thermodynamic equilibrium is ensured by uniform
chemical potentials of colloid and counterion throughout the
system. The influence of Coulombic coupling on sedimenta-
tion equilibrium is studied in Sec. IV. Five regimes are dis-
tinguished based on the sedimentation profiles and counter-
ion distributions. The effective charge or the degree of
counterion dissociation manifesting the strength of colloid-
ion attraction plays an important role in determining the sedi-
mentation profile. Moreover, it is found that although charge
separation always exists for salt-free dispersions, the internal
electric field is neither a sufficient nor necessary condition
for nonbarometric distributions. Finally, the validity of the
typical mean-field approximation is also examined by the
excess chemical potentials associated with counterion and
colloid.
II. PARTITION FUNCTION AND ASYMPTOTIC LIMITS
Consider a salt-free dispersion in a container with mean
colloid concentration cp. The diameter and charge of col-
loidal particles are D and −Ze, respectively. Here e denotes
the fundamental charge of 1.610−19 C. The size and va-
lency of counterion are d and +z, respectively. The equilib-
rium thermodynamics of a charged colloidal dispersion un-
der an biased, external field f can always be obtained through
the partition function. For such a system with volume V, the
partition function is expressed as
ZD,d,Z,z,B,Lg, NV = 1N!M!
V ¯ 
V e−H
dr1 ¯ drNds1 ¯ dsM , 4
where there are N colloids and M counterions. The global
electroneutrality requires Mz=NZ for a salt-free system. The
Hamiltonian H is given by
H = 
i=1
N D/2Lg ri · ff +  BD/2i=1
N

ji
Z2
rˆi − rˆ j
− 
i=1
N

j=1
M
Zz
rˆi − sˆ j
+ 
i=1
N

ji
z2
sˆi − sˆ j
 . 5
Here B is the Bjerrum length and B0.71 nm for a disper-
sion in water at 25 °C. All position vectors are nondimen-
sionalized by D /2, rˆi=ri / D /2. The first term on the right-
hand side represents the potential energy associated with the
external force and the second term depicts the electrostatic
energy. The sedimentation profile is related to the partition
function by
cpr1 =
1
N − 1!M!
V ¯ 
V e
−H
Z dr2 ¯ drN
ds1 ¯ dsM . 6
Similarly, the counterion distribution is given by
ccs1 =
1
N!M − 1!
V ¯ 
V e
−H
Z dr1 ¯ drNds2 ¯ dsM .
7
The partition function indicates that in addition to the
external force the equilibrium colloid and ion distributions
depend also on the colloid-colloid interactions Z2, colloid-
ion interactions Zz, and ion-ion repulsion z2. Since Zz
typically, the ion-ion repulsion is generally small compared
to the other two interactions. As the gravitational force is
absent f=0 or weak LgH, Brownian motion kBT
dominates and a uniform distribution of colloids is observed.
On the other hand, as B→0, the electrostatic interaction
between colloids vanishes and the barometric distribution is
obtained due to f. The external field breaks the uniformity of
the system and leads to nonuniform distribution of colloids.
Because counterions are not influenced by the external field,
they tend to distribute uniformly in the system. However, the
sedimenting colloids attracting counterions lead to nonuni-
form counterion profile as well. The macroscopic counterion
distribution is therefore a consequence of the competition
between electrostatic colloid-ion attraction and translational
counterion entropy.
There are two limits of counterion distribution, which
reveals the colloid-ion attraction. The strength of colloid-ion
interaction can be expressed in terms of the effective charge
Z* or the degree of ionization  associated with the col-
loid. When the colloid-ion interaction is very weak, the ef-
fective charge is close to the intrinsic charge Z. As a result,
the translational entropy of counterions dominates and coun-
terions distribute uniformly in the container. On the other
204504-2 Wang et al. J. Chem. Phys. 129, 204504 2008
Author complimentary copy. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
amount of computer time is required. The qualitative nature
of sedimentation equilibrium is reserved since the system
size of our simulation is quite adequate.
The typical values of the system parameters are N=250,
Z=15, R=200, and H=1000. Simulations of systems with
higher colloidal charges i.e., Z15 are achievable. How-
ever, an increase in Z significantly enlarges the number of
counterions and the system size accordingly. The simulation
will become very time-consuming. All lengths are scaled by
the colloid radius D /2. The scaled gravitational length is
fixed at Lg=12.5, which always satisfies the condition
DLgH. The total number of particles in the system is
then N1+Z /z=4000 for z=1 or 1500 for z=3. The volume
fraction of colloids is =4N / 3R2H10−5. As shown in the
Hamiltonian, the electrostatic interaction is controlled by the
Coulomb strength, which is defined as
Ec =
e2
4
r
0kBTD/2
= 2BD  . 11
The magnitude of Ec can be tuned by colloid diameter D,
solvent dielectric constant 
r, and temperature T. For ex-
ample, EcO10−2 for D=100 nm in water 
r80 and
EcO1 for D=2 nm in ethanol 
r25. The effective
colloid-colloid repulsion can be characterized by Z2Ec
while the effective colloid-ion attraction relates to the degree
of ionization . The strengths of both colloid-colloid repul-
sion and colloid-ion attraction vary with Ec. However, when
the colloid-ion attraction is strong, the degree of dissociation
 approaches zero and thus the colloid-colloid repulsion can
become weak. In other words, qualitatively different behav-
iors of sedimentation equilibrium can be observed by chang-
ing the Coulomb strength.
A short description of MC simulation is given below.
The simulation details can be seen elsewhere.10 The simula-
tions were conducted under conditions of constant volume V,
temperature T, and total number of particles N1+Z /z. The
initial configuration for colloids and ions was obtained by
randomly putting them within the container without overlap-
ping each other. The system was equilibrated for about 105
MC steps per particle and 106 attempted MC moves per par-
ticles were made in the production runs. The moves adopted
in our simulations were particle displacement motions. Par-
ticle displacement moves involve randomly picking a par-
ticle and displacing it to a new position in the vicinity of the
old position. The new configurations resulting from the
moves were accepted according to the standard Metropolis
acceptance criterion Pacc=min1,exp−Uel /kBT, where
Uel is the change in the total electrostatic energy of the
system due to the move. In this work, the electrostatic pair
interactions are bare Coulomb potential with excluded vol-
ume interaction. The electrostatic colloid-colloid Uel
pp and
colloid-ion Uel
pc interaction potentials are
Uel
ppr =   if r DZZB/r if r D ,
and
Uel
pcr =   if r D/2
− zZB/r if r D/2.

Note that the counterions are assumed to be point ions be-
cause their size is small compared to the diameter of the
colloid.
In order to avoid the frequent overlap of a colloid with
ions due to a simple displacement, the cluster move algo-
rithm that satisfies detailed balance is adopted.11 The ions
that hinder the displacement of the colloid at its new position
are removed and then reinserted into the space left empty by
the displacement of the colloid. The overlapping ions are
reflected through the center between the new and old colloid
positions into the space vacated by the colloid displacement.
Note that the cluster moves are completely symmetric be-
cause moving a colloid back to its original position returns
ions to their original positions. To increase the successful
probability of colloid displacement at the condition of strong
colloid-ion interactions, extended cluster moves are used,
i.e., the counterions close to the colloids are added in the
cluster move.
In order to study the colloid-ion interaction, one has to
obtain the effective charge that is defined by the ion chemical
potential c.
12,13 In addition, to examine the typical assump-
tion made in the mean-field theory, such as the Boltzmann
distribution in the Poisson–Boltzmann equation, we calculate
the electric potential . The expressions for calculations are
given as follows.
A. Chemical potential and electric potential
The chemical potential is given by
i = i
0 + kBT ln cix + i
exx , 12
where ex denotes the excess chemical potential. For conve-
nience, the reference chemical potential is set to be zero, i.e.,
i
0
=0, and the concentration cix is scaled by D /2−3. The
ideal particle concentration and excess chemical potentials
vary with the vertical position x and can be evaluated from
MC. We divide the container into 50 layers and record the
number of ions in each layer. The excess chemical potential
is obtained by the Widom’s method,14,15 which is the revers-
ible work needed to add a ghost particle carrying charge q to
the solution,
ex = − kBT lnexp− U/kBT ,
where a denotes the ensemble average of a. Note that U
includes both hard-sphere interaction and qUel due to elec-
trostatic interactions. The electric work Uel is related to the
electric potential associated with the electric field established
by all charged species in the system due to the insertion of a
point charge at position x, x=Uel. In the dilute limit, the
contribution associated with hard-sphere interactions is in-
significant. As a result, the difference between chemical po-
tential and electric potential may be indicative of the validity
of the mean-field theory.
At equilibrium, the chemical potential is uniform every-
where. Figures 1a and 1b show typical distributions of
particle counterion or colloid concentrations, excess chemi-
204504-4 Wang et al. J. Chem. Phys. 129, 204504 2008
Author complimentary copy. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
discussed the situations regarding two asymptotic limits:
weak colloid-ion interaction and strong colloid-ion attrac-
tion. The charge density 	x can be expressed as Eq. 8 for
the weak colloid-ion interaction and follows local charge
neutrality approximately, 	x0, for the strong colloid-ion
interaction. As demonstrated in Fig. 1c, the simulation re-
sult of z=1, Ec=3.610−3 the weak limit is consistent with
Eq. 8. On the other hand, the simulation result of z=3 and
Ec=1.4 the strong limit, local electroneutrality assumption
is approximately valid except near the container bottom.
B. Effective charge of colloids
The effective charge of colloids Z* can be determined by
knowing the effective counterion concentration c
c
*
. Due to
colloid-ion attraction, the behavior of counterion in a disper-
sion is different from that in the absence of colloids. As a
result, one can define the free counterion concentration in the
colloidal solution by comparing its chemical potential to that
in a typical electrolyte solution.12,13 When the chemical po-
tential of counterions in the colloidal solution 
c
* is equiva-
lent to the salt solution of concentration cb with the same
chemical potential of counterions, i.e., ccb, the free coun-
terion concentration of the colloidal solution is then defined
as c
c
*
=cb. The “degree of ionization” of a salt-free colloidal
solution is given by
 =
c
c
*
cc
, 13
where cc represents the intrinsic counterion concentration
uniform distribution. In a dilute z :1 electrolyte solution of
concentration cb, the chemical potential of an ion follows the
ideal form, c=0+kBT ln cb, where 0 is conveniently set
to zero. Consequently, one can obtain c
c
* easily after evalu-
ating the counterion chemical potential from simulations.
If the number concentration of charged colloids is cp,
then the global electroneutrality condition requires that
Z*cp − zcc
*
= 0. 14
Equation 14 indicates that the effective charge of the col-
loidal particle can be determined by Z*=zc
c
* /cp if the effec-
tive counterion concentration c
c
* is measured by an apparatus
such as ion-selective electrode. Because of cc=Zcp /z, the
effective charge is related to the intrinsic charge by the de-
gree of ionization in a salt-free solution, Z* /Z=. We have
to emphasize that since only the Coulomb interaction is in-
volved in this study counterions are always dissociated com-
pletely. Nevertheless, its strong, long-ranged nature leads to
nonuniform ion distribution and thus alters the effective
counterion concentration activity. Therefore, the degree of
ionization is not related to any chemical reaction.
Evidently, one can also define an effective colloidal con-
centration activity cp
*
=cpp, where p depicts the activity
coefficient associated with the colloid. Then the electroneu-
trality condition demands Zcp
*
−zc
c
*
=0. However, the con-
ventional approach based on the concept of counterion con-
densation is to adopt the true colloidal concentration cp with
effective charge Z*. As a result, one has Z* /Z=p. This con-
sequence indicates that the activity coefficient of the charged
colloid is equivalent to its degree of ionization in a dilute
salt-free dispersion,13
p =  = c, 15
where the counterion activity coefficient is c=cc
* /cc.
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
The sedimentation equilibrium of dilute, salt-free col-
loids is investigated by Monte Carlo simulations. In addition
to the sedimentation profile of charged colloids, the counter-
ion distribution is examined as well. As manifested in the
Hamiltonian of the partition function, i.e., Eqs. 4 and 5,
the terms involving electrostatic interactions may alter the
barometric profile of colloid significantly as demonstrated in
Eq. 6 and influence the counterion distribution as shown in
Eq. 7. These electrostatic interactions are controlled by the
Coulomb strength, Ec=2B /D, which represents the ratio of
the Bjerrum length to the colloidal size. Consequently, the
origin of nonbarometric profiles is analyzed from the view-
points of colloid-colloid repulsions and colloid-ion attrac-
tions. In reverse, the colloid-colloid repulsion can be identi-
fied by the deviation from the barometric profile while the
colloid-ion attraction can be realized from the counterion
distribution in the container and around the charged colloid.
The competition between gravitational force and colloid-
colloid repulsion determines the sedimentation profile. When
the gravitational force dominates, the barometric profile is
shown. On the other hand, as the colloid-colloid repulsion
prevails, the uniform profile appears. The effective colloid-
colloid repulsion is related to the effective charge associated
with colloids, Z*=Z, which is decided by the colloid-ion
attraction. The degree of counterion dissociation satisfies
01 and reveals the strength of colloid-ion attraction.
According to the Hamiltonian, there may exist five regimes:
i weak colloid-colloid repulsion and weak colloid-ion at-
traction, ii medium colloid-colloid repulsion and weak
colloid-ion attraction, iii strong colloid-colloid repulsion
and medium colloid-ion attraction, iv medium colloid-
colloid repulsion and strong colloid-ion attraction, and v
weak colloid-colloid repulsion and strong colloid-ion attrac-
tion. Evidently, weak colloid-colloid repulsions correspond-
ing to the limiting cases i and v may lead to the baromet-
ric sedimentation profile. Nonetheless, the counterion
distribution of case i is completely different from that of
case v, as depicted in Secs. II A and II B, respectively. In
order to examine whether these regimes can exist or not, the
electrostatic interactions are tuned by changing the Coulomb
strength Ec and the counterion valency z with Z=15 in this
study.
A. Sedimentation profiles for monovalent counterions
„z=1…
Figure 2 depicts the distributions of colloids under dif-
ferent values of Coulomb strengths. If B=0.7 nm, then the
particle diameters corresponding to Ec=3.5610−3 and
1.4310−1 are D=400 and 10 nm, respectively. When the
Coulomb strength is weak, Ec=3.5610−3, the sedimenta-
204504-6 Wang et al. J. Chem. Phys. 129, 204504 2008
Author complimentary copy. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
counterion valency z in addition to Ec. Therefore, we con-
sider a salt-free dispersion with trivalent counterions. Figure
4 shows the sedimentation profiles at different Coulomb
strengths. For monovalent counterions, the deviation from
the barometric profile grows with increasing Ec, as demon-
strated in Fig. 2. However, for trivalent counterions, the de-
viation increases first but becomes to decline as Ec is in-
creased further. The barometric profile can be obtained at
high enough Ec, that is, the effective colloid-colloid repul-
sion is actually weaken by increasing the Coulomb coupling.
As a result, the effective colloid-colloid interaction is not
represented simply by Z2Ec.
The different behaviors between monovalent and triva-
lent counterions can be explained by examining the counter-
ion distribution. Figure 5 depicts the counterion distributions
at different Coulomb strengths. Different from the deviation
of the colloid profile from the barometric profile, the depar-
ture of counterion distributions from the uniform distribution
grows with increasing the Coulomb strength, that is, more
counterions are accumulated near the bottom as the colloid-
ion attraction is increased. This result indicates that although
an increment in electrostatic interactions can reinforce the
bare colloid-colloid repulsion, the colloid-ion attraction ben-
efits more and exhibits counterion condensation more signifi-
cantly. Consequently, the effective colloid-colloid repulsion
is weakened due to counterions built up in the vicinity of
colloids. Therefore, as the Coulomb strength is high enough,
the colloid-colloid repulsion becomes weak owing to the
strong colloid-ion attraction and the barometric sedimenta-
tion profile is recovered.
A simultaneous analysis of the colloid profile and the
counterion distribution reveals that there exist five regimes
for z=3. Besides the regimes i, ii, and iii observed for
monovalent counterions as well, there are two more regimes:
iv medium colloid-colloid repulsion and strong colloid-ion
attraction and v weak colloid-colloid repulsion and strong
colloid-ion attraction. In the regime iv significant counter-
ion condensation reduces the effective charge of the colloid,
which, in turn, results in medium colloid-colloid repulsion.
The sedimentation profile behaves thereby different from the
barometric distribution considerably. Although the sedimen-
tation profile of the regime iv is similar to ii, the counter-
ion distribution of the latter is much more uniform than the
former. In the regime v the counterion condensation is very
serious and the degree of ionization becomes very small.
Since the colloid is essentially weakly charged, the sedimen-
tation profile follows the barometric distribution. Despite the
fact that the sedimentation profile of the regime v is similar
to i, their counterion distributions are completely different.
The counterion distribution of the latter is totally uniform
while the former follows the barometric profile approxi-
mately near the bottom.
In regime i, the density profile of colloidal particles
displays linear behavior on the semilog plot and the slope
denotes the inverse of the effective gravitational length
1 /Lg. If local charge neutrality is assumed, the slope be-
comes a factor of 1 / 1+Z /z smaller. As shown in Fig. 2
for z=1, the slope for the linear curve of regime i is
about 1 /13 and the slope for the linear region of regime iii
is about 1 /140 which is larger than the expected value
1 /131 /16. In the same way, Fig. 4 for z=3, the slope
for the linear curve of regime i is about 1 /13 and the slope
for the linear region of regime iii is about 1 /60 which is
also larger than the expected value 1 /131 /6. By com-
paring cp and cc, we found that the phenomena of charge
separation exist for all the systems studied. Therefore, the
factor 1 / 1+Z /z is not attained. However, the extent of lo-
cal charge neutrality is observed to increase with increasing
Ec.
FIG. 4. Color online A plot of the colloid number density cp against the
vertical position x under different Coulomb strengths Ec for trivalent coun-
terions z=3.
FIG. 5. Color online The variation of the counterion number density cc
with the vertical position x at various Coulomb strengths Ec for trivalent
counterions z=3.
204504-8 Wang et al. J. Chem. Phys. 129, 204504 2008
Author complimentary copy. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
interactions as can be seen from the results of Figs. 2 and 4.
Note that in our work Ec is dimensionalized by the ther-
mal energy kBT. Therefore, the effective colloid-colloid re-
pulsions are termed weak as Z2EcO1, medium as
O1 Z2EcO10, and strong as Z2EcO10.
Similarly, The colloid-ion repulsions are termed weak as
zZEcO1, medium as O1zZEcO10, and strong as
zZEcO10.
D. Comparison to the mean-field theory based
on chemical potential
The colloid profile cp and the counterion distribution
cc are related to their chemical potentials i and the exter-
nal forces fi. Consider a dispersion consisting solute species
i=1,2 , . . . under external force fi. At equilibrium, the statis-
tically averaged, total forces acting on particle i are zero,4
− i + fi = 0, 16
where ix is the chemical potential of species i at position
x and the thermodynamic force −i arises from the non-
uniform concentration. As a result, the grand chemical po-
tential Mi=i+ f ix is uniform everywhere. The chemical po-
tential consists of an ideal contribution due to entropy and an
excess contribution due to particle-particle interactions, that
is, ix=i
ex+kBT ln ci, where i
ex is the excess chemical
potential, denoting the deviation from ideal behavior. The
grand chemical potential Mi is then related to ci by
FIG. 8. Color online The examination of the mean-field approximation Eq. 18 by comparing qie to i
ex
. a Monovalent counterions z=1 at
Ec=0.143, b monovalent counterions z=1 at Ec=0.713, and c trivalent counterions z=3 at Ec=0.713.
204504-10 Wang et al. J. Chem. Phys. 129, 204504 2008
Author complimentary copy. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
V. CONCLUSION
The sedimentation profile of a dilute colloidal solution
follows the Boltzmann barometric distribution owing to the
balance between gravitational force mg and thermal fluc-
tuation kBT. However, the long-range interaction between
colloids may lead to significant deviation even in the low
volume fraction limit e.g., 10−5. As a result, the deviation
from barometric distribution can be regarded as a signature
of the strongly interacting nature, that is, the dispersion is
dilute in terms of particle volume fraction but not dilute in
terms of interaction range between two colloids. In this
study, Monte Carlo simulations are employed to investigate
the behavior of sedimentation equilibrium associated with a
dilute, salt-free colloidal dispersion. The focuses are mainly
on the influences of the Coulomb strength and counterion
valency on the colloid profile and the counterion distribution.
The strength of electrostatic interactions depends on the
Coulomb strength defined as the ratio of the Bjerrum length
to the colloid size. The sedimentation equilibrium is deter-
mined by the effective colloid-colloid repulsion, which, how-
ever, is influenced by colloid-ion attraction zZEc. At small
Coulomb strength, the colloid-ion interaction is weak and the
counterions tend to disperse uniformly. The colloid profile is
controlled by the bare colloid-colloid repulsion Z2Ec. On
the contrary, at large Coulomb strength, the colloid-ion at-
traction is strong and the counterions are likely to accumu-
late in the vicinity of the colloids. The extent of counterion
condensation can be expressed by the degree of ionization.
The colloid profile is decided by the effective colloid-colloid
repulsion Z2Ec. Both cases can display the barometric
profile if the colloid-colloid repulsion is weak. The entirely
different Coulomb strengths in these two cases indicate that
different colloid-ion attractions can still result in similar ef-
fective colloid-colloid repulsions as well as the sedimenta-
tion profiles. Consequently, an effective one-component
model can be used only when the electrostatic interactions
between colloids are correctly described.
Five regimes can be identified by the sedimentation pro-
file colloid-colloid repulsion and the counterion distribu-
tion colloid-ion attraction, as shown in Table I. As the Cou-
lomb strength is increased, the colloid-ion attraction grows
and the degree of ionization declines. Similarly, the effective
colloid-colloid repulsion rises with the Coulomb strength but
it is also proportional to the square of the degree of ioniza-
tion, which decays with Ec. As a result, the effective colloid-
colloid repulsion and the deviation from the barometric pro-
file increase first, reach a maximum, and then decrease. In
other words, the barometric profile may be obtained at weak
and strong Coulomb strengths. The most inflated colloid pro-
file generally takes place at strong colloid-colloid repulsion
but medium colloid-ion attraction. These regimes can be
clearly observed for trivalent counterions. Our analysis also
shows that charge separation always exists in a salt-free
charged dispersion. Therefore, the local electroneutrality
condition is generally not satisfied. Charge separation leads
to macroscopic electric field definitely. However, it is neither
sufficient nor necessary condition for the formation of in-
flated sedimentation-diffusion profiles.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research is supported by National Science Council
of Taiwan, R.O.C.
1 R. Piazza, T. Bellini, and V. Degiorgio, Phys. Rev. Lett. 71, 4267 1993.
2 T. Biben and J.-P. Hansen, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 6, A345 1994.
3 J.-P. Simonin, J. Phys. Chem. 99, 1577 1995.
4 W. B. Russel, D. A. Saville, and W. R. Schowalter, Colloidal Dispersions
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1989.
5 R. van Roij, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 15, S3569 2003.
6 M. Raşa and A. P. Philipse, Nature London 429, 857 2004.
7 A. P. Philipse, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 16, S4051 2004.
8 M. Raşa, B. H. Erné, B. Zoetekouw, R. van Roij, and A. P. Philipse, J.
Phys.: Condens. Matter 17, 2293 2005.
9 A.-P. Hynninen, R. van Roij, and M. Dijkstra, Europhys. Lett. 65, 719
2004.
10 Y.-J. Sheng and H.-K. Tsao, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 185501 2001; Phys.
Rev. E 66, 040201R 2002; C.-H. Ho, H.-K. Tsao, and Y.-J. Sheng, J.
Chem. Phys. 119, 2369 2003.
11 A.-P. Hynninen and M. Dijkstra, J. Chem. Phys. 123, 244902 2005.
12 T.-Y. Wang, T.-R. Lee, Y.-J. Sheng, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Phys. Chem. B
109, 22560 2005.
13 T.-Y. Wang, Y.-J. Sheng, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Chem. Phys. 125, 194523
2006.
14 W. L. Hsin, T.-Y. Wang, Y.-J. Sheng, and H.-K. Tsao, J. Chem. Phys.
121, 5494 2004.
15 D. Frenkel and B. Smit, Understanding Molecular Simulation Aca-
demic, New York, 1996.
16 G. Rodriguez and L. Vicente, Mol. Phys. 87, 213 1996.
17 H. Lowen, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 10, L479 1998.
18 G. Tellez and T. Biben, Eur. Phys. J. E 2, 137 2000.
19 A. Esztermann and H. Lowen, Europhys. Lett. 68, 120 2004.
20 J. Zwanikken and R. van Roij, Europhys. Lett. 71, 480 2005.
21 P. M. Biesheuvel and J. Lyklema, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 17, 6337
2005.
22 A. Cuetos, A. P. Hynninen, J. Zwanikken, R. van Roij, and M. Dijkstra,
Phys. Rev. E 73, 061402 2006.
23 A. Torres, A. Cuetos, M. Dijkstra, and R. van Roij, Phys. Rev. E 75,
041405 2007.
24 A. Torres, A. Cuetos, M. Dijkstra, and R. van Roij, Phys. Rev. E 77,
031402 2008.
204504-12 Wang et al. J. Chem. Phys. 129, 204504 2008
Author complimentary copy. Redistribution subject to AIP license or copyright, see http://jcp.aip.org/jcp/copyright.jsp
