 2
各分店之前，可根據各分店每週商品的銷售數據，加以調整原訂單數量後，再進行補貨配送商品到
各分店的動作。這當中需要不少的商品數量調整，各分店的一開始的訂單數量和最後的送貨數量不
一致，資訊系統或會計系統的資料最後該如何調整或記錄歸檔，將是一大挑戰。 
    因此，本計畫以一國內連鎖經銷商為研究對象，但是以經銷商各分店為決策中心，探討經銷商
各分店與供應商間的訂貨與補貨機制(Anussornnitisarn, et al., 2005; Bernstein and Federgruen, 2005; 
Saharidis, et al., 2006)。從經銷商各分店內商品的最小訂貨量、商品的安全庫量和供應商的商品最小
補貨量為基礎，去探討經銷商各分店與供應商間各種的協同機制，也牽涉到供應商與連鎖經銷商間
不同程度的資訊分享。例如：經銷商各分店與供應商資訊分享程度的高低，會影響供應商的生產計
劃或補貨配送計劃。但是，其採用科技技術程面(如：RFID 等)則不是本計畫研究的範圍。本計畫
提出三種不同的協同機制模式，來探討其優缺點。並從理論面與實務面做比較，深入了解其背後的
管理意涵，以期許本研究成果能提供相關連鎖產業做訂單與補貨決策之參考，並提升其企業之競爭
力。 
    本計畫以一國內連鎖商店供應鏈來探討各分店與供應商間不同程度的協同合作下，會如何影響
各分店之下訂單行為與供應商如何配送商品的行為等。以期能降低各分店庫存成本且不影響缺貨率
(意即各連鎖分店能降低營運成本，但仍維持相同的顧客忠誠度)。本計畫分為三階段(如；圖一)：
第一階段探討供應商與經銷商間相關的協同議題，從相關的學術文獻中，整理出供應商與經銷商間
不同的協同合作型式、其優缺點或限制等，以形成第二階段建立訂貨與補貨模式的假設條件或輸入
變數(input variables)。第二階段採用模擬程式來建構三種供應商與經銷商各分店間且具代表性的協
同合作機制，並結合一些實務上的作業面考量，以模擬程式來探討不同的協同模式，對其系統中供
應商的成本、各分店的成本與整個供應鏈系統總成本的影響。第三階段則為第二階段的延伸，探討
更深入一步的協同合作模式(即實務上的各分店互相調貨機制，避免因某一分店缺貨但其它分店有
貨，但是顧客因架上商品缺貨，而發生顧客流失到競爭者之商店消費的行為發生，進而導致顧客的
忠誠度下降)，對整個系統績效的影響。 
 
 
圖一、研究架構圖 
 
3. 文獻探討 
    本計畫所涉及的相關領域為供應鏈中成員的協同合作之模式，因此，針對「協同規劃」、「協同
預測」、「協同補貨」和「協同規劃、預測與補貨」四類研究做文獻分類，其相關研究文獻整理如下： 
 4
和補貨的模式(collaborative forecasting and replenishment, CFAR )，由一個製造商和兩個經銷商一起
協同做預測和生產規劃。CFAR 比 EDI 更進化一步，它整合企業關鍵流程，例如：製造商和經銷
商的預測和生產排程。CFAR 的優點為可以減少供應鏈系統中的存貨量或缺貨率，這是符合學術理
論上的論點，因為 CFAR 透過供應鏈成員間的協同合作，來減少需求的不確定性。 
    另外，協同運輸管理(collaborative transportation management, CTM)也是協同補貨相關的延伸。
CTM 的目標是將由 CPFR 產生的訂單轉換為運送預測，最後達成準確的產品配送(Esper and 
Williams, 2003)。對協同補貨機制而言，Chen and Chen (2005)調查三種因素(協同補貨、通路合作和
損壞性產品管理)的關連性，這裡的協同補貨是指生產排程和配送；通路合作是指供應鏈成員中因
補貨機制而產生的總存貨成本。 
 
(4) 協同規劃、預測與補貨 
    VICS 協會(Voluntary Interindustry Commerce Solutions Association)在 2003 年制訂 CPFR 實施準
則，其準則包含三階段和九步驟(VICS, 2003)。CPFR 最重要的三個精神為 “3E” (expectation, 
exception and execution，即預期、例外和執行)，為了達成預測的成果，供應鏈中的成員必須監控
他們所有的例外事件，和制定發生例外事件後的應變措施。整體而言，CPFR 讓供應鏈中所有成員
建立一個可以分享資訊和處理意外事件的管道。 
    Filedner (2003)整理 CPFR 的流程和其優缺點，及 CPFR 和 ERP 結合後的未來發展藍圖。而
Barratt and Oliveira (2001)更列出執行 CPFR 所可能遇到的障礙和可以幫助執行 CPFR 的工具，他們
也指出一個一致性的資訊系統來支援 CPFR 專案的推動是必要的。如此一來，CPFR 才能達成供應
鏈整合的目標。 
    Danese (2006)以個案方式探討六種協同深度和協同單位數量的關係，也同時調查 CPFR 和資訊
通訊科技(information communication technologies, ICT)的關係。其研究結果指出當協同單位數較少
時，所需要的資訊通訊科技程度較低；反之亦然。 
     
4. 參考文獻 
1. Agrawal, S., Sengupta, R.N., Shanker, K., 2008. Impact of information sharing and lead time on 
bullwhip effect and on-hand inventory. European Journal of Operational Research, 192 (2), 576-593. 
2. Anussornnitisarn, P., Nof, S.Y., Etzion, O., 2005. Decentralized control of cooperative and 
autonomous agents for solving the distributed resource allocation problem. International Journal of 
Production Economics, 98 (2), 114-128. 
3. Arda, Y., Hennet, J.C., 2006. Inventory control in a multi-supplier system. International Journal of 
Production Economics, 104 (2), 249-259. 
4. Aviv, Y., 2001. The effect of collaborative forecasting on supply chain performance. Management 
Science, 47 (10), 1326-1343. 
5. Barratt, M., Oliveira, A., 2001. Exploring the experiences of collaborative planning initiatives. 
International Journal of Physical Distribution and Logistics Management, 31 (4), 266-289. 
6. Berning, G., Brandenburg, M., Gursoy, K., Kussi, J.S., Mehta, V., Tolle, F.J., 2004. Integrating 
collaborative planning and supply chain optimization for the chemical process industry (I) - 
methodology. Computers & Chemical Engineering, 28 (6-7), 913-927. 
7. Bernstein, F., Federgruen, A., 2005. Decentralized supply chains with competing retailers under 
 6
25. Seo, Y., Jung, S., Hahm, J., 2002. Optimal reorder decision utilizing centralized stock information in 
a two-echelon distribution system. Computers & Operations Research, 29 (2), 171-193. 
26. Smarås, J., 2007. Forecasting collaboration in the European grocery sector: observations from a case 
study. Journal of Operations Management, 25 (3), 702-716. 
27. van der Vaart, T., Wijngaard, J., 2007. The contribution of focus in collaborative planning for 
make-to-order production situation with large set-up times. International Journal of Production 
Economics, 108 (1-2), 436-443. 
28. VICS, 2003. Collaborative planning, forecasting and replenishment (CPFR) guidelines version 3.0.  
29. Viswanathan, S., Piplani, R., 2001. Coordinating supply chain inventories through common 
replenishment epochs. European Journal of Operational Research, 129 (2), 277-286. 
30. Waller, M., Johnson, M.E., Davis, T., 1999. Vendor-managed inventory in the retail supply chain. 
Journal of Business Logistics, 20 (1), 183-203. 
31. Yao, D.Q., Yue, X., Mukhopadhyay, S.K., Wang, Z.P., 2008. Strategic inventory deployment for 
retail and e-tail stores. Omega-International Journal of Management Science, 37 (3), 646-658. 
 
5. 研究方法 
5.1 研究考量之因素 
    以連鎖店分店為主軸的訂單補貨配送問題，需考量的特性有：需求的特徵、需求的型態、前置
時間、成本及存貨控制策略。以下便針對各點特性加以說明： 
 
(1) 需求的特徵 
    連鎖經銷商各分店的需求特徵有下列三種特徵：(a)每個分店陳列超過一千種以上的販售商
品；(b)只有少數熱賣品每天會有顧客來買，大部分的商品需求量很小；(c)產品缺貨率必須低於預
定目標值之下，維持高的產品上架率，以滿足顧客的購買行為，減少發生顧客買不到想要的商品，
而降低對該分店的忠誠度。 
 
(2) 需求的型態 
    當顧客進入任何一家連鎖分店，他/她會購買想要的商品，或者找不到想要的商品而離開。假
設每個來店消費的顧客是獨立的，所以每個顧客可以視為一個獨立的隨機變數。因此，假設顧客的
來店率為卜瓦松分布(Poisson distribution)及其參數為 λ，即每個小時來店人數為 λ 人；意即每個顧
客來店的間隔時間為指數分布(Exponential distribution)且其參數也為 λ，其平均間隔時間為 1/λ，意
思是指平均每 1/λ 個小時會有一個顧客來店消費。 
 
(3) 前置時間 
    供應鏈中資訊傳遞是一個耗時的過程，除非上下游成員有一個資訊分享的平台，才能有效縮減
一些前置時間。因此，在連鎖店各分店與其供應商的協同合作關係裡，前置時間扮演一個非常重要
的角色。協同合作對前置時間所帶來的好處有：(a)因為各分店與其供應商藉由協同合作，達成資
訊分享，也讓供應商的生產規劃前置時間可以縮短，且各分店的下訂單前置時間也縮短；(b)供應
商也藉由各分店即時的銷售資訊可以更準確掌握消費者習性，甚至藉由協同合作，了解各分店的商
品庫存資料。結合銷售和庫存資料後，供應商可以更準確規劃工廠的生產計劃和產品完成後的配送
 8
 
5.2.2 協同補貨模式 1 
    協同補貨模式 1 包含一供應商(M)、一經銷商總店(R)和多連鎖分店(SR)，如圖三所示。各連鎖
分店將它們的訂單傳送到經銷商總店，經銷商總店加總各連鎖分店的訂購商品數量後，再將訂單總
數量傳送到供應商處。供應商收到經銷商總店的訂單後，檢查自己的庫存量，不足數目則採購原物
料，安排生產流程。供應商再將完成後之商品直接送到各連鎖分店，跳過經銷商總店，不用再由經
銷商總店分送商品到各連鎖分店的作業流程。 
 
5.2.3 協同補貨模式 2 
    協同補貨模式 2 包含一供應商(M)和多連鎖分店(SR)，如圖四所示。各連鎖分店直接將它們的
訂單傳送到供應商處。供應商收到各連鎖分店的訂單後，檢查自己的庫存量，不足數目則採購原物
料，安排生產流程。供應商再將完成商品直接送到各連鎖分店。整個供應鏈模式裡只有兩個階層，
少了經銷商總店這個單位。 
 
        圖四、協同補貨模式 2                             圖五、協同補貨模式 3 
 
5.2.4 協同補貨模式 3 
協同補貨模式 3 包含一供應商(M)、一物流配送商(D)和多連鎖分店(SR)，如圖五所示。各分店
直接將它們的訂單傳送到供應商處。供應商收到各連鎖分店的訂單後，檢查自己的庫存量，不足數
目則採購原物料，安排生產流程。供應商再將完成商品直接送到物流配送商處。物流配送商在根據
各連鎖分店的商品訂貨量配送到各連鎖分店裡。此模式與協同補貨模式 2 不同處在於：此模式的各
連鎖分店可以訂購較少數量之商品，供應商因為仍是統一製造和配送商品到物流配送商處，所以，
供應商對單一連鎖分店的單一商品沒有最小訂購量和沒有最小配送量的限制，只有對所有連鎖分店
的訂單總合裡每一商品有最小訂購量和最小配送量的限制。而物流配送商可以採用接駁式轉運
(cross-docking)的配送模式，減少倉儲作業及減少所需之倉庫儲存面積。而表一和表二為以上四個
模式的系統模擬所需考量的成本及存貨盤檢時間之參數設定。 
 
表一、四個系統模擬模式的成本項目 
成本 未協同之補貨模式 協同補貨模式 1 協同補貨模式 2 協同補貨模式 3 
存貨成本 M, R, SR M, SR M, SR M, SR 
運輸成本 M->R 
R->SR 
M->SR M->SR 
M->D 
D->SR 
倉儲存本 有 無 無 無 
     M: 供應商; R: 經銷商總店; SR: 各連鎖分店; D: 配送商。 
 10
    (4)當定期檢查存貨時間縮短時，未協同補貨模式和協同補貨模式 3 有較低的總成本，而協同
補貨模式 1 和協同補貨模式 2 的總成本則較不受影響。其可能的原因為較頻繁的檢查存貨，可以讓
未協同補貨模式和協同補貨模式 3 中的供應商、經銷商總店及各連鎖分店較不易發生缺貨的現象，
因此，可以使整個系統(未協同補貨模式和協同補貨模式 3)的成本下降。 
     
6.2 計畫成果自評 
本計畫採由系統模擬的觀點，發展一對於供應鏈中成員建立協同合作之機制，並探討不同程度
之協同合作機制對供應鏈中成員們的訂單與補貨配送模式之績效影響。其研究成果可以作為連鎖企
業與其供應商做下單與補貨配送決策評估的工具，亦提供政府相關單位作企業輔導方向之參考。此
外本計畫藉由實證研究方法，評估目前一國內中型生活百貨連鎖供應鏈企業與其供應商之下單與補
貨配送決策，包含二項決策行為：一、評估各連鎖分店的訂單與存貨管理的決策行為;二、評估其
供應商的補貨配送的決策行為。最後希冀藉由實證結果之探討，期許能夠深入了解連鎖店之供應鏈
協同合作機制之特性與限制，作為未來其產業能力提升之依據，以強化國內連鎖產業相關企業之競
爭力。 
透過系統模擬與連鎖店企業資料實證研究之探討，幫助供應鏈中成員做協同合作機制之建立，
並能做訂單、存貨與補貨配送之相關決策，以便達成供應鏈中協同合作之績效提升，以提供相關連
鎖店企業在訂單、存貨與補貨配送之最佳實務，並期能推廣到整個產業或其它相關產業。另外，也
幫助企業了解整個協同機制的優缺點、限制及影響協同機制成敗的因素，以期能有效提升企業之競
爭力。 
最後，協同環境下經銷商各分店與供應商間之訂貨與補貨機制的實證研究仍屬少數，故本計畫
研究成果預計可發展數篇國內外具學術理論價值之文章。 
 
  Different types (or sizes) of products are 
manufactured in the same line, and changing the process 
requires machine setups, which usually take one to two 
hours. Frequently setting up machines not only results in 
loss of production capacity, but also may decrease the 
yield rate of the product. 
 After visiting A-facility, we found that the number of 
parallel machines in the S&B station or in testing station 
is significantly more than the number of machines in other 
workstations. There are 11 machines in the S&B station 
and 14 machines in the testing station, whereas no more 
than three machines in any other workstations. To set up a 
machine, it takes one hour in the S&B station or two 
hours in the testing station. Moreover, the number of 
setups that can be performed simultaneously in the S&B 
and testing stations is limited by the number of fixtures 
and the number of skilled shop-floor workers. 
Furthermore, the machine setup in the testing station has 
to be performed by engineers who usually work outside 
the fabrication area. In A-facility, the machine setup 
decisions are current made subjectively by the shop-floor 
supervisor. The decision quality highly depends on the 
experience and ability of these supervisors. However, 
when there are a certain number of machines and the 
setup time is long, even the most experienced staff cannot 
easily make appropriate decisions to avoid the 
unnecessary idleness of the machines. Although the WIP 
information is available in A-facility’s real-time 
production information system, lack of decision support 
mechanism hinders supervisors from using such 
information to make better decisions. From the scheduling 
viewpoint, a lot of opportunities for improvement exist in 
the cell back-end process. Even a simple improved 
procedure can result in a significant improvement of the 
productivity. Therefore, the objective of this study is to 
design a customized machine-setup decision support 
system (DSS) for A-facility to assist its shop-floor 
workers in determining an appropriate machine-setup 
schedule in the S&B and testing stations. 
 
 
II.  DESIGN OF A CUSTOMIZED MACHINE-SETUP 
DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM 
 
 The main purpose of this DSS is to shorten the idle 
time incurred by machine setups in the S&B and testing 
stations in order to increase the machine utilization and 
productivity. In order to effectively analyze this problem, 
the following assumptions are made to limit the scope of 
this study. (1) The capacity of warehouse and WIP 
storage area is sufficient. (2) The materials and 
transportation equipment are sufficient. 
 The maximum throughput of a system is determined 
by its bottleneck capacity. Thus, it is important to identify 
the bottleneck of a system before analysis. This study 
randomly selected one-month production data provided 
by A-company and analyzed the capacity and machine 
utilization for S&B and testing stations. The results are 
summarized in Table I, where the average machine 
utilization is calculated by the number of operating hours 
of the machines dividing by the total available working 
hours. The excess capacity represents the machine idle 
time. From Table I, we can find that the average machine 
utilization of the testing station is higher than that of the 
S&B station. Further, the excess capacity can only 
provide 1.67 setups for the machines in the testing station, 
meaning that the production planning and machine-setup 
schedule are very critical to the productivity of the testing 
station due to limited machine excess capacity.  
  
TABLE I 
CAPACITY AND MACHINE UTILIZATION FOR S&B AND TESTING 
STATIONS 
 
Workstation S&B Testing
Average machine utilization 86.89% 88.67% 
Excess capacity (hour/day) 5.43 3.34 
Machine setup time (hour) 1 2 
Number of setups per day provided 
by excess capacity 5.43 1.67 
 
 The proposed machine-setup DSS consists of three 
modules: data input module, machine-setup module and 
schedule output module. Data input module first reads and 
pre-processes data from the production information 
system for the machine-setup module, which generates 
appropriate schedules for machine setups by its built-in 
dispatching rule. The suggested schedules are displayed  
by schedule output module for shop-floor workers. The 
structure of the machine-setup DSS is illustrated in Fig. 2. 
 The data input module organizes and pre-processes 
required data for the machine-setup module. The required 
data include product related information (such as product 
type, number of panels generated by one substrate set for 
each type of product, processing time for each machine, 
etc.), the number of machines available in each station, 
the number of fixtures available for each type of product 
in each station and the planning horizon.  
 The machine-setup module consists of PD-PI 
algorithm and feasibility check algorithm. PD-PI 
dispatching algorithm is a combination of PD (product 
decreasing) algorithm and PI (product increasing) 
algorithm.  In order to better explain the logic embedded 
in these two algorithms, we use “type x machine” to 
represent “a machine that has been set up to process 
product type x.” In PD-PI algorithm, PD algorithm first 
checks if there is any product type that matches the 
conditions such that the number of corresponding type of 
machines can be decreased. The purpose of this algorithm 
is to locate the type of product whose WIP will soon be 
finished processing by the available machines. When a 
certain type of product is found by PD algorithm, PI 
algorithm is then applied to locate the type of product 
such that the corresponding type of machines can be 
increased. The purpose of PI algorithm is to locate the 
type of product such that the WIP of this type of product 
requires the longest time to process. The change of 
machine allocation generated by PD-PI algorithm needs to 
be further evaluated by feasibility check algorithm to find 
  
 
 
Fig. 3. Flow chart to illustrate the logic embedded in PD-PI algorithm. 
 
III.  SIMULATION ANALYSIS 
 
The proposed DSS is implemented by constructing 
macros embedded in Microsoft Excel by VBA (Visual 
Basic for Application) language in order to be compatible 
with A-company’s current shop-floor system. To 
investigate the effectiveness of the machine-setup 
schedules suggested by the proposed DSS, a discrete 
event simulation model, constructed based on the real 
setting in the fabrication area in A-facility, was used to 
evaluate the system performance. The simulation model 
was built and executed in eM-Plant, the object oriented 
simulation tool. To simplify the simulation model, the 
following assumptions are made: (1) The type and 
number of machines and the corresponding time for each 
machine to process a certain type of product are known. 
(2) The number of fixtures available for each type of 
product is known. (3) The manufacturing facility operates 
24 hours a day (by two 12-hour shifts). (4) The planning 
horizon is one day divided into 24 time buckets. 
 Fig. 4 is an illustration of the simulation model of the 
cell back-end process in A-facility. Five workstations are 
included in this simulation model: assembly, S&B, 
testing, polarizer attachment and laser repair stations. The 
machine-setup decisions in S&B and testing stations are 
suggested by the proposed DSS. The rest three stations 
are modeled as sourcing stations that provide WIP to S&B 
and testing stations.  
In the simulation scenario, the input materials are 
substrate sets that have been matched, hot-pressed and 
injected with liquid crystal in the assembly station. Seven 
types of product are produced. The number of panels can 
be cut from one substrate set of each type of product is 
organized in Table II.   
 
 
Fig. 4. Simulation model of the cell back-end process. 
 
TABLE II 
NUMBER OF PANELS CAN BE CUT FROM ONE SUBSTRATE SET OF 
EACH PRODUCT TYPE 
 
Product type A B C D F G H 
Number of panels can be 
cut per substrate set 16 16 12 12 12 12 8 
 
 Moreover, the number of machines in each of the five 
workstations included in the simulation model is 
organized in Table III. The machines in each workstation 
are regarded as independent parallel machines. 
 
TABLE III 
NUMBER OF MACHINES IN EACH WORKSTATION 
 
Workstation Assembly S&B Testing Polarizer Attachment 
Laser 
Repair 
Number of 
machines 2 11 14 1 3 
 
 The setup time for a machine in the S&B station is 
one hour and the setup time for a machine in the testing 
station is two hours. The numbers of fixtures available for 
different product types in S&B and testing stations are 
organized in Table IV. 
 
TABLE IV 
NUMBER OF FIXTURES AVAILABLE 
 
                      Product type 
Workstation  A B C D F G H 
S&B 9 3 11 4 11 5 6 
Testing 0 4 9 7 11 7 7 
 
 In the simulation study, the material release schedule 
is based on the estimated production planning of the 
assembly station. Moreover, the existing method 
employed to determine the machine setup schedule is 
modeled as a myopic minimum setup time (MST) rule. 
Based on MST rule, machine setup will not start until at 
least one machine is idle. Due to the limited skilled 
manpower to set up machines, the existing method allows 
at most one setup in S&B station and at most two 
machines to be set up in testing station simultaneously at 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：98 年 12 月 25 日 
一、參加會議經過 
    2009IEEM 會議為在香港三天二夜的會議活動，提前一晚(12/8)抵達香港，當天下午 4:00~7:00
的報到流程，報到後領取會議相關資料。並有一簡單之社交活動，讓與會者可以彼此互相交流認識，
包含一些主辦單位的著名學者，簡單的名片交換與社交對談，對於新進學者的我，是不錯的體認和
該積極參與的活動。由於是第二次參加 IEEM 會議，去年在 IEEM 會議上結識幾位海外學者，今年再
遇到這些學者，覺得格外的親切。 
    第一天(12/9)起為正式的學術會議，早上安排二場的 keynote speaker 演講相關主題，包括創
新的重要性和對於工業工程未來發展(永續發展)的看法與見解，接下來的議程為八場次各子題的
oral 報告，每個子題有四到七名的報告者，採各子題同時進行。 
    第二天(12/10)會議議程如同前一天，但是早上多了一個與五位主編的共同討論時間，包含主辦
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2221  － E － 033 － 036 － 
計畫名稱 協同環境下經銷商各分店與供應商間之訂貨與補貨機制 
出國人員
姓名 陳平舜 
服務機構
及職稱 
私立中原大學工業與系統工程
學系 
會議時間 98年 12月 9日至98 年 12 月 11 日 會議地點 香港 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) 2009 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Engineering and 
Engineering Management 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) A Machine Setup Model for TFT-LCD Cell Back-End Process 
附件四 
 3
(工業工程或作業研究)的最新發展，最終看能不能有朝一日和其它國家學者合作，做出有趣的研
究成果。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
    會議議程一本(收錄各個 oral 的摘要)，及會議出版 USB 隨身碟一份，此為 EI 等級之國際會
議，預估三個月後，會議論文將被收錄在 EI 資料庫中。 
 
六、其他 
    無。 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳平舜 計畫編號：98-2221-E-033-036- 
計畫名稱：協同環境下經銷商各分店與供應商間之訂貨與補貨機制 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
