 
 2 
 
 
目  錄 
壹、 報告內容 ....................................................................................................................................3 
貳、 參考文獻 ..................................................................................................................................15 
叁、 學術期刊發表 ..........................................................................................................................16 
肆、 附錄 ..........................................................................................................................................18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
band gaps, and therefore phononic crystals are also called phononic bandgap materials. In the 
past years, we have seen steadily increasing interest in phononic crystals because of their 
interesting physical properties and possible engineering applications. However, there are 
major differences between phononic and photonic crystals that make the study of phononic 
crystals a separate subject from photonic crystals. First of all, dielectric materials usually 
support transverse electromagnetic waves, while elastic materials support both transverse as 
well as longitudinal elastic waves. Second, photonic materials have the largest speed of 
propagation in air, while elastic materials have a small (longitudinal) speed of propagation in 
air. Moreover, the physical properties of photonic crystals are determined by the contrast of 
dielectric constants, while those of phononic crystals are determined by both the contrast of 
elastic constants and the mass density ratio of the composed materials. In this study, we are 
concerned with the effects of the mass density ratio and contrast of elastic constants on major 
phononic band gaps and develop a theory of homogenization to examine the mechanism of 
the effects. The computation of band structures is demanding, as an eigenvalue problem needs 
to be solved for each individual wave number in the first Brillouin zone. A fast and accurate 
method for computing band structures is very helpful in designing phononic band-gap 
materials. In the present study, we apply a method of inverse iteration with multigrid 
acceleration to compute the band structures of phononic crystals. This method was originally 
developed by the present authors to compute band structures for photonic crystals made of 
dielectric materials. Regarding the effects of material constants, it is natural to consider that a 
large contrast of elastic constants is necessary for the existence of a major band gap. This is 
not necessarily true as we shall show that the mass density ratio is the key factor in 
determining the location and size of the band gap. If the contrast of elastic constants is large, 
the higher-frequency bands are not very sensitive to the change of the mass density ratio, 
while the lower bands are heavily dependent on this change. In general, the frequency bands 
of the transverse modes are relatively flat compared to those of the longitudinal modes. This 
indicates that it is easier to open up a band gap between the bands of the transverse modes, but 
which is often fully blocked by the frequency bands of the longitudinal modes. As the mass 
density ratio is increased, the lower frequency bands, in particular of the longitudinal modes, 
shift downward in frequency and shrink significantly in size, resulting in an opening up of a 
major band gap. Those results could be put to a solid physical background by the theory of 
homogenization, which provides a good guideline for opening up band gaps. In order to 
indicate the underlying thought, we first develop the theory of homogenization in one 
dimension, then followed by the theory in two dimensions. In particular, two distinguished 
classes of phononic crystals are considered: media embedded in a rubber have elastic 
constants larger than rubbers by four or five orders in magnitude, and media embedded in an 
epoxy have elastic constants comparable to epoxies in magnitude. 
In 2005, the PI (Chien C. Chang) proposed an interfacial operator approach to compute band 
structures for photonic crystals of dispersive metals. In particular, the free-electron and the 
Drude models have been computed for the nano-scale metallic materials. In this approach, the 
apparently nonlinear eigenvalue problem can be reformulated as a linear eigensystem which is 
 6 
五、結果與討論 
   In the paper “Augmented Coupling Interface Method for Solving Plasmonic Eigenvalue 
Problems”, an integration of interfacial operator approach and coupling interface method is 
proposed to compute plasmonic wave modes of metal-dielectric composite material with 
periodic structure. Physically, these plasmonic wave modes are confined and oscillate on the 
metallic surface. This causes computational difficulties. The main ingredients of the proposed 
method contains (i) an introduction of an auxiliary variable and an interfacial operator on the 
interface to reduce this nonlinear eigenvalue problem to a quadratic eigenvalue problem 
where a standard numerical eigensolver  can be applied, (ii) an extension of the coupling 
interface method, where the auxiliary variable is discretized uniformly on the interface, the 
rest of variables are discretized on an underlying rectangular grid, and a proper interpolation 
between these two grids are designed to reduce the number of stencil points. The method is 
second order. Convergence validation using the Drude model for metal is carefully performed. 
Due to the introduction of new variables and new consistency equations, an extraneous 
eigenvalues are also found. A criterion based on truncation error analysis is introduced to rule 
out those which have large truncation errors. 
In this paper, “Effective group velocity of the elastic waves in the periodic structure 
of elastic composites: a homogenization study”, we attempt to provide a method to 
calculate the effective group velocities of the phononic crystals at the long wavelength 
limit. First, by homogenization theory, the effective elastic constants can be described 
as integral forms definitely and effective mass density satisfies the volume average in 
the solid-solid and fluid-solid cases. After obtaining the effective properties of the 
composite material, we apply the dispersion relation of cubic materials to compute the 
effective group velocities of P, SH and SV modes for elastic periodic structures. We 
find that the effective group velocities vary obviously with the filling ratio of the 
composite material and behave a little different with distinct incident propagations. In 
the final section, the possibility of finding the exceeding elastic constants is considered. 
The several composites are testified and show the chances to over the range of elastic 
constants confined by original materials. For the future work, it is worth to consider 
the elastic constants are frequency dependent. How to obtain the effective properties 
with frequencies is the important issue needed to address 
For the second year, we focus on the use of threaded needles as manual actuators for 
thermoplastic-integrated PDMS valves was motivated by our recent demonstration that 
needles used for high-pressure world-to-chip fluid interfacing3 could maintain high pressure 
seals following many tens of repeated insertion and removal cycles. Unlike silicon, glass, or 
elastomer materials, an important advantage of thermoplastics for microfluidic applications 
is their excellent machinability. While previous screw-type PDMS valves require epoxy4, 5 
or an external frame6 to mate screws to the microfluidic chip, the current approach avoids 
these additional fabrication steps by machining the mating threads directly into the 
thermoplastic substrate. Using 710 µm diameter stainless steel needles, valve displacement 
volume is minimized while providing a rigid and mechanically robust interface for valve 
 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proportional flow control and pressure resistance 
 Using a chip containing a single valve, the relationship between valve position, defined by the 
needle rotation angle, and flow rate was examined. The chips consisted of a T-junction, with 
fluorescein injected past the junction using a syringe pump, and fluorescent microbeads injected 
past the junction using either an LC pump or a constant pressure source. The PDMS valve was 
located between the microbead inlet and the T-junction, allowing flow of the beads to be 
modulated with the valve. Measurements of bead flow were performed using three different 
chips, with an average of 10 repeated operation cycles using each chip. Defining 0
o
 as the 
position at which the valve first closes for a small input pressure of 0.1 MPa, with negative 
angles reflecting an open valve and positive angles representing additional compression of the 
PDMS valve, measurements of flow rate at different valve positions are shown in Fig. 1. The 
flow rate exhibits a nearly linear dependence on valve rotation angle, with good reproducibility 
between the different chips.  
 Also shown in Fig. 1 is the relationship between positive valve angles and pressure resistance 
measured using the same 3 chips. In the initial closed position, the maximum pressure resistance 
for the valves was measured at 0.4 MPa. Gradually increasing the rotation angle resulted in a 
linear increase in maximum pressure before valve leakage was observed. The maximum 
pressure of 24.4 MPa was achieved for a rotation angle of approximately 158
o
. However, it 
should be noted that for a valve rotation angle of 113
o
, small portions of PDMS were 
occasionally observed to shear off the valve body when when the maximum back pressure of 
about 13 MPa was reached. Thus while the valves can operate at pressures above 24 MPa for 
single-use applications, a lower pressure limit of 13 MPa is more suitable when repeated valve 
cycles are required. However, below 13 MPa the repeatability and robustness of the valves were 
found to be excellent, with valves actuated more than one hundred times over a period of a 
month at the 13 MPa pressure limit without failure. 
 The channel aspect ratio is an important factor affecting the functionality of regulation and 
valving. In this work, the microchannels beneath the valve seats were approximately 130 µm 
wide and 70 µm deep. Valves fabricated using deeper channels were found to result in lower 
pressure limits due to shear forces producing debris from the PDMS at lower valve rotation 
angles. More shallow channels, on the other hand, constrained the valve rotation angle range 
without significantly improving pressure resistance. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Experimental measurements revealing relationships between 
valve rotation angle and flow rate for negative (open valve) angles, 
and between valve rotation angle and pressure resistance for 
positive (closed valve) angles. Three chips were tested to evaluate 
valve repeatability, and an average of ten tests was performed using 
each chip for flow rate measurements. 
 10 
single-use applications, and up to 13 MPa for repeated use. Manual valve operation is amenable 
to chip prototyping, while automation operation may be achieved using off-chip rotary 
actuators.  
 The maximum pressure resistance of the valves demonstrated in this work is presently limited 
by the PDMS material properties. However, because the threaded needles generate high 
compressive forces on the elastomeric valve plugs, a wide range of elastomers with higher 
elastic moduli and shear strengths than PDMS may be suitable for use as the elastomeric valve 
material without sacrificing valve function. The use of fluoroelastomers, for example, may 
provide higher pressure resistance while also offering excellent solvent compatibility. 
In this year, we proposed an augmented coupling interface method on a Cartesian grid for 
solving eigenvalue problems with sign-changed coefficients. The underlying idea of the method 
is the correct local construction near the interface which incorporates the jump conditions.  The 
method is based on finite difference discretization and it is very easy to implement. The main 
ingredients of the proposed method contains (i) an adaptive-order strategy which can  approach 
each side by polynomials of different orders and avoid the nonexistence of the local linear 
combination of a discretization; (ii) when the interface condition involves the eigenvalue, the 
original problem is reduced to a quadratic eigenvalue problem by introducing of an auxiliary 
variable and an interfacial operator on the interface; (iii) the auxiliary variable is discretized  
uniformly on the interface and the rest of variables are discretized on an underlying rectangular 
grid and a proper interpolation between these two grids are designed to reduce the number of 
stencil points. Several examples are tested to show the robustness and accuracy of the schemes. 
 
另外，在動態系統的相關研究中，因其系統皆為非線性，以往吾人所熟悉的線性方法就
很難使得上力，或只能在局部近似之，是以我們需要一些適當的度量工具，特別是在定性的
分析之外，還需要一些有用的定量指標，例如 Lyapunov 指數、碎形維度(fractal dimension)、
熵(entropy)等，這些指標對於系統的狀態或現象有著標示作用。Lyapunov 指數與熵是屬於動
態指標，也就是說與時間有關；而碎形維度是屬於幾何指標。目前來看，尚未出現兼具動態
與幾何的指標，本計劃就是希望能建立一個二者兼具的指標，同時又能讓此新指標與系統的
動態特性有所對應，這就發展了全新的指標:曲率指標。其定義必須由高維度的曲率入手，
而高維度的曲率與一般所熟知二或三維空間的曲率並不相同。目前對於動態系統在軌跡或是
說吸引子的曲率研究仍然付之闕如，是以急需要更進一步的研究，而本計畫正朝著此方向來
努力。 
    動態系統發展了一全新的不變指標：曲率指標。在本計劃中我們定義了一個全新的動態
平均值(dynamical averaging)，由於未做平均前的瞬間曲率是具有幾何特性的標量，其平均結
果就是新的指標兼具動態與幾何的特質。所採用定義方法的細節如下。考慮系統 
( ,  )f t=x xɺ , 
其中 N∈x R ，且 f 是 1NC −  differentiable。假設前 1N − 個 ( ) Nt ∈x R 導數之間是線性獨立的，
運用 Gram-Schmidt process 就能得到 
 1 ( ,  )f t= =E x xɺ  及 1 1 1=V E E ， 
( )( ) ( )i ii jj
j i<
= − ⋅∑E x Vx V  及 i i i=V E E , for 2,  ,  1i N= −⋯ ,  
( )( ) ( )N NN jj
j N<
= − ⋅∑E x Vx V 。 
其 higher curvatures 可以寫成 
 12 
各有其優缺點以及適當的使用時機，且無法完全取代對方。最後，在圖六中顯示了延遲同步
化的結果，兩子系統所對應的兩個曲率指標差值 1 1K K ′− 及 2 2K K ′−  在耦合參數 0.15γ = 時發
生脈衝，且參數γ 超過 0.15 時趨於零，此時兩個系統發生了延遲同步化。 
 
圖一 
 
 
圖二 
 14 
 
圖五 
 
圖六 
 
 
 
 16 
 
參、發表期刊論文 
Journal Papers: 
1. C. F. Chen, J. Liu, C. C. Chang and D. L. DeVoe, High-pressure on-chip mechanical valves 
for thermoplastic microfluidic device, Lab on a Chip, 2009, 9, 3511-3516. (SCI, IF= 6.478, 
Nanoscience & Nanotechnology 5/50) 
2. Shu YC, Chang CC, Wang CY & Chen YS (2010) Electro-osmotic flow in a micro-channel 
with corrugated walls: coherence between the electric potential and the wallshape function. 
Physics of Fluids 22, 082001. (SCI) 
3. Liu J, Chen CF, Yang S, Chang CC & DeVoe DL (2010) Mixed-mode electrokinetic and 
chromatographic peptide separations in a microvalve-integrated polymer chip. Lab on a 
Chip 10, pp. 2122-2129. (SCI, IF=6.478, Nanoscience & Nanotechnology 5/50) 
4. Shu YC, Kao CY, Chern IL & Chang CC (2010) Augmented Coupling Interface Method 
for Solving Eigenvalue Problems with Sign-changed Coefficients. Journal of Computational 
Physics 229, pp. 9246-9268. (SCI) 
5. Chun-Fei Kung, Chien-Cheng Chang and Chin-Chou Chu, A capillary pumping device utilizing 
super-hydrophobic silicon grass, J. Micromech. Microeng. 21 (2011) 065009 
6. Liu TH, Gajewski G, Pao CW* & Chang CC* (2011) Structure, energy, and structural 
transformations of grapheme grain boundaries from atomistic simulations. Carbon 49, pp. 
2306-2317. (SCI) 
7. Wang CY & Chang CC* (2011) Electroosmotic flow in polygonal ducts. Electrophoresis 32, pp. 
1268–1272 (SCI) 
8. Liu YH, Kuo CY, Chang CC* & Wang CY (2011) Electro-osmotic flow through a two-dimensional 
screen pump filter. Physical Review E 84, 036301 (SCI) 
9. Chang CC*, Kuo CY & Wang CY (2011) Unsteady Electroosmosis in a Microchannel with 
Poisson-Boltzmann Charge Distribution. Electrophoresis 32, pp. 3341–3347. (SCI) 
10. Chang CC & Wang CY (2011) Rotating Electroosmostic Flow over a Plate or Between Two Plates. 
Physical Review E 84, 056320. (SCI) 
 
 
Conference Papers: 
1. Yu-Chen Shu, Chien C. Chang, I-Liang Chern and Ying-Hong Liu, (23-27 March, 2009) 
Solving Guided Wave Modes in Plasmonic Crystals by Interfacial Operator and Coupling 
Interface Approach, 25th PIERS (Progress In Electromagnetics Research Symposium) 
Beijing, CHINA.(23-27 March, 2009). 
2. Yu-Chen Shu, Chien C. Chang, I-Liang Chern and Ying-Hong Liu, (02-06 Nov, 2008) 
Solving guided wave modes in plasmonic crystals, ISAPE(International Symposium on 
Antennas, Propagation, and EM Theory), Kunming, China. (02-06 Nov, 2008). 
3. 舒宇宸、張建成、陳宜良，(2008)“求解表面電漿子晶體的波導模態”，第十五屆計
算流體力學會議，並於該會議中取得論文佳作獎. 
4. C. F. Chen, J. Liu, E. Wang, C. C. Chang, I. Hewlett and D. L. DeVoe, Disposable 
immunoassay chips for HIV monitoring in resource-constrained environments, Hilton 
Head Workshop 2010: A Solid-State Sensors, Actuators and Microsystems Workshop, 
 18 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：本計畫於這三年的時程表中，已成功建立適用於黏彈性固體週期材料之均勻化理
論，以研究奈米固體週期結構的宏觀力學、熱傳導行為，並開發一個適用於色散性的電磁週
期材料，在全空間域上具二階精準的頻帶計算方法，探討界面算子法及藕合界面法，結合兩
個方法之優勢並證明測試其收斂性、有效性及精準度」。同時也成功定義一個動態系統的全新
指標-曲率指標，同時將其應用在各種同步化發生與否的判別。與原計畫十分相符。 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
   本計劃在這三年當中共發表了數篇文章於國際知名期刊，如：Lab on a Chip、 
    Physics of Fluids、Journal of Computational Physics，成果非常豐碩，足以見   
    得本計劃執行成果已慢慢受到國際肯定。 
 
附件二 
 20 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   
月   日 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 2009 年 11 月 20 日搭乘中華航空班機至美國加州舊金山市，次日與本所朱錦
洲教授會合後，再轉機赴明尼蘇達州明尼阿波利斯市，參加美物理學會第 62 屆流體動
力學年會並發表論文。此會議為一年一度最重要的流體動力學會議之一，為學術界、工
業界、研究單位相互交流學習新知的最佳機會。與會者來自美、加、歐洲、亞洲、澳洲、
計畫編
號 
NSC  97－2221－E－002－223－MY3 
計畫名
稱 
求解奈米結構頻帶之創新性理論與數值方法 
出國人
員姓名 張建成 
服務機
構及職
稱 
應用力學研究所 教授兼所長 
會議時
間 
98 年 11 月 22 日
至 
98 年 11 月 24 日 
會議地
點 
美國明尼蘇達州明尼阿波利斯 
會議名
稱 
(中文)美物理學會第 62 屆流體動力學年會 
(英文) 62 nd Annual Meeting, Division of Fluid Dynamics, American 
Physics Society 
發表論
文題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Unsteady aerodynamics of dragonfly using a wing-wing model 
from the perspective of a force decomposition 
附件四 
 22 
University of California, San  
Diego 
quantification in blood flow simulations for congenital heart  
disease 
McKinley, Gareth  
Massachusetts Institute of  
Technology 
Session GW.00004 Promoting Giant Liquid Slip on  
Omniphobic Surfaces with Re-entrant Textures     
Mehta, Rabindra D. Sports 
Aerodynamics Consultant,  
Mountain View, California 
Session BW.00005 Fluid Mechanics of Cricket and Tennis  
Balls      
Melville, W. Kendall * Scripps 
Institution of Oceanography, 
University of California, San 
Diego 
Session D2.00001 Ocean Surface Waves and Turbulence:  
Air-Sea Fluxes and Climate Variability 
Mittal, Rajat  
Mechanical Engineering, Johns  
Hopkins University 
Session BW.00003 Computational Modeling and Analysis 
of the Fluid Dynamics of Competitive Swimming    
Moser, Robert  
University of Texas at Austin 
Session EW.00004 Calibration, Validation and Uncertainty  
Quantification for Hypersonic Reentry Vehicles   
Munn, Lance *   
Harvard University 
Session J1.00001 Tumor Blood Vessel Dynamics   
Pope, Stephen *  
Cornell University 
Session C1.00002 Otto Laporte Lecture: Fluid Dynamics  
Prize Talk: Simple Models for Turbulent Flows 
Quere, David  
ESPCI 
Session GW.00001 Unusual dynamical properties of water  
repellent materials 
Rothstein, Jonathan  
University of Massachusetts  
Amherst 
Session GW.00002 Drag reduction in laminar and turbulent  
flows past superhydrophobic surfaces   
Smits, Alexander  
Princeton University 
Session BW.00002 Experimental measurement of the  
aerodynamic properties of golf balls    
Squires, Kyle  
Arizona State University 
Session BW.00001 Modeling golf ball fluid mechanics -  
challenges and opportunities 
Squires, Todd M *  
University of California, Santa  
Barbara 
Session O2.00001 Francois Frenkiel Award Talk:  
Fundamental Aspects of Concentration Polarization Arising  
from Nonuniform Electrokinetic Transport 
可見內容涵蓋流體動力學的層層面面。 
 
 
2.論文發表 
會議共安排 20 個會場平行發表論文，三天共有約 1500 篇口頭報告，詳細的議程、 
講題、作者及摘要，請參考網址:    
http://meetings.aps.org/Meeting/DFD09/APS_epitome  
此次會議，本人與朱錦洲教授及謝政達博士共同發表論文如下： 
 24 
 
一、參加會議經過 
每兩年一屆的亞洲計算流體力學會議  Asia  Computational  Fluid  Dynamics 
Conference)，於 2010 年一月十日至十四日在中國香港香港科技大學舉行。這個會議起
源創於 1995 年，針對計算流體力學領域所舉辦的研討會。經過時間的演進，亞洲計算
流體力學會議至今已舉辦七屆，原先第一屆於香港舉辦，中間歷經六屆，分別在亞洲各
個重要城市舉辦，每次會議吸引上百人以上的計算流體力學專家學者參加，今年再度回
到香港舉辦，更具有特別意義。在今年第八屆之中，其討論的內容已經包括當代計算流
體力學的幾個重要問題，包括了 Navier-Stokes and Boltzmann Solver, Bio-Fluid Mechanics/ 
Micro and Low Reynolds Number Flow, High Performance and Parallel Computing, Industrial 
Application of CFD, Turbulent Flow: Modeling and LES/DNS….。大會以探討計算方法為大
宗，從會議可以發現現行趨勢，盛行的方法有  ACM、IBM、G.K.S、LBM、TVD、ENO，
舉例來說 TVD  是一個解雙曲型偏微分方程的數值方法，它最大的優點在於它是一個
Monotone Scheme，此數值方法的優點在於它不會造成非物理性的解，但它的缺點當遇到
計畫編
號 
NSC  97－2221－E－002－223－MY3 
計畫名
稱 
求解奈米結構頻帶之創新性理論與數值方法 
出國人
員姓名 
張建成 
宮春斐、謝政達 
服務機
構及職
稱 
應用力學研究所 教授兼所長 
中央研究院應用科學研究中心 
會議時
間 
99 年 1 月 10 日
至 
99 年 1 月 14 日 
會議地
點 
香港、香港科技大學 
會議名
稱 
(中文) 第八屆亞洲計算流體力學會議 
(英文) The 8th Asian Computational Fluid Dynamics Conference 
發表論
文題目 
(中文) 
(英文)  Investigation og Insect Flight from the perspective of a Force Element 
Theory 
 26 
以證明他的座摽方法著實是個非常有用而有效率的一套計算方法。接著第二場是由日本
京都大學的 T.ohwada 教授發表演講，演講題目是 Kinetic Method in CFD，演講內容主要
闡述了幾個部份，首先他們先回顧了一些 time-marching 的方法，可以應用在動態方程
裡面，另外導出了可壓縮的  Navier-Stokes,  Burnett  空氣動力模式可以應用在 
time-marching  的公式之中，最後他提出混合 BGK，GKS 有限差分法可以解析如音爆
擴張的問題以及  Riemann  等問題，由他的演講中提供了新的思維讓我們在解析一個
較為複雜的問題時，可以用更為簡便的方法去解析它。  
    吾人主要聆聽場次以生物流體力學主題(Bio Fluid Mechanics/Micro and Low Reynolds 
Number Flows)，本場次主要受邀的文章報告為中國大連理工大學吳綞結教授，報告主要
內容介紹魚類(包括魚群)Self-Propelled 泳動控制的二維與三維數值模擬，結果顯示魚群
泳動過程中，受到彼此渦漩的交互作用，將使得原始給定的魚群泳動排列方式改變，而
另一結論顯示，當調整魚類尾部的擺動頻率以及運動時頭部的控制，將使得整個魚群能
夠在巡航、旋轉、以及群體環狀游動時能維持極佳的排列方式。而其它的發表文章中，
同樣眾多探討魚類泳動的推進力，例如：南京漢口大學 G. Y. He 研究員報告 Biplane(雙
翅)配置下的推進力，功率係數以及推進效率隨著 Heaving velocity (kh，k 為 reduced  
frequency，h 為 heaving amplitude)  的影響，在反向拍動時(counter-stroking)，上述所有物
理量將隨著 kh 增加而增加；然而在當 k 由 2 增加到 10，功率係數隨之增加，而推
力係數與推進效率在 k=4 時存在著最大值，並隨兩側快速遞減。  
    另外在其它場次同樣主要聆聽場次生物流體力學(Bio Fluid Mechanics/Micro and Low  
Reynolds  Number  Flows)，本場次主要受邀的文章報告為台灣大學張建成教授，2008  
年以前學術界對於昆蟲飛行機制的探討仍停留在以非黏流之理論或準定常(Quasi-steady)
分析非定常問題，即便科學家詳細的流場資訊可經由量測或計算取得，對於昆蟲飛行之
高升力機制仍無法解釋清楚。但早在 1992 年張建成教授提出一種診斷流場之力元(源)
理論，並於 2008  年與朱錦洲教授將此理論推展至多個物體流場之診斷，對此問題提
供一個理想的解決方案。它不但易於幫助吾人確認翼體本身之非定常運動所造成物體之
受力外，最大優點在於經由力元分析可鑑別流場中各流體元素對各個物體受力之個別貢
獻的非定常效應。基於此理論基礎，本演講重新檢視簡化果蠅與蜻蜓懸停動作下所受
升、阻力與昆蟲運動所產生複雜之流場的對應關係。文中分析出各項非定常效應之貢
獻，包括(1)翼翅的速度項、(2)翼翅與其它翼翅的加速度項，(3)翼翅與其它翼翅的表面渦
度項以及(4)在流場中的渦度項，並將各項逐時的變化作了詳盡的分析。透過力元理論的
剖析，作了完整且透徹的解釋。目前團隊正擴展可撓性翅翼以及三維魚游及撲翅的分析
與設計。 
二、與會心得 
就整體而言，所發表的文章多是屬於各個領域的研究回顧或前瞻的研究，而這次與會的
學者多是各個學校學術界較為資深的學者，可見得此次會議性質定位於較高的層次。  
    對於參與本次大會，可謂收益良多，重要的事乃聽到來自亞洲各個頂尖學者的演
講，並與許多學者學生相互學習交流，而兩位年輕學者(宮、謝)更榮幸能與許為厚教授
認識。在整個會議過程中，各個研究領域的演講內容開啟並豐富吾人的視野。同時，透
過他們的研究報告中，也深深覺得大陸學者的研究人力相當充沛，不管是研究設備或是
能力都相當充沛，因此聽他們所發表的論文，所考慮的問題方向，確實能讓人耳目一新，
 28 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
我們於 ISFV14 會議前一天 99 年 06 月 20 日搭中華航空 CI-160 班機至韓國仁川國際機
場。抵達機場後隨即與 ISFV14 的機場服務人員聯繫，並由工作人員的帶領下搭車前往東大
邱 EXCO 會場辦理報到手續，並準備會議將報告之投影片。 
    國際流場可視化技術研討會 International Symposium on Flow Visualization (ISFV)為國際上
重要的流體力學會議之一，此研討會每兩年舉辦一次，這次會議在韓國大邱廣域市舉辦，論
文研究領域包括：生醫流體、微奈米流體、可壓縮及超音速流體、多相流、PIV 與 PTV、剪
切紊流、數值模擬、空氣動力與化學反應流體等九大類，共有來自全球 20 多個國家與地區
的學者專家約 350 多位參與此次的盛會，而台灣學者投稿之文章大約占有 1/7 分量。此次會
議不僅邀請多位流體力學大師報告流體力學最新的發展與應用，更有不少年輕學者報告其最
新穎的研究。 
計畫編
號 
NSC  97－2221－E－002－223－MY3 
計畫名
稱 
求解奈米結構頻帶之創新性理論與數值方法 
出國人
員姓名 
張建成 
黃世霖 
服務機
構及職
稱 
應用力學研究所 教授兼所長 
會議時
間 
99 年 6 月 21 日
至 
99 年 6 月 24 日 
會議地
點 
韓國 大邱 
會議名
稱 
(中文) 第十四屆國際流場可視化技術研討會 
(英文) 14th International Symposium on Flow Visualization 
發表論
文題目 
(中文) 
(英文)  AN EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION OF THE FORMATION 
AND TRANSITION OF A DOUBLE EYEWALL VORTEX 
 30 
國際會議的可能性。由以往經驗得知，爭取舉辦如此大型國際會議，不僅會加速提升我學術
研究的產能，更能提升我國在國際上之知名度，同時帶動相關軟硬體供應商的進步、與旅遊
服務業的發展等。 
 
張建成教授攝於 ISFV14 會議報告時 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
報告：劉惠美(政治大學)、石磊(雲南財經大學)、陳麗霞(政治大學)、李燊銘(逢甲大學)。下
午大會安排參觀石林，大伙體會了造物之鬼斧神工，07 月 19 日大會移師於雲南大學科學館
召開第二天的會議，有一相當盛大的開幕式，該校主管，包括雲南大學校長王學仁教授亦參
與主持，當日早上亦有兩場大會報告：蔡宗儒(淡江大學)、張進(雲南大學)。 
我們的論文報告時間安排在 99 年 07 月 19 日下午，內容為以 Nakagami 參數為基礎之生醫
影像，底下為中英文摘要： 
<中文摘要> 在這項研究中，我們考慮 Wilcoxon 雙樣本位置問題，應用在 Nakagami 分佈以及
相關的超音波影像分析。Nakagami 參數是用來描述超音波影像。對於位置轉移問題的檢定
力,可以經由變異數及大樣本方法得到確切公式。數值分析顯示出 Nakagami 參數與超音波影
像的相關性。決定雙樣本位置問題之樣本大小的實際考慮也將一併討論。 
<英文摘要> In this study, we consider the Wilcoxon two-group location shift problem for the case 
of Nakagami distribution related to the ultrasound image analysis. The Nakagami parameter is 
used to describe the ultrasound image. For the testing power to the location shift testing, explicit 
formulas are derived for the Nakagami distribution using the exact variance large-sample method. 
Numerical results present the relationship between the Nakagami parameter and the ultrasound 
image. Practical considerations in determination of sample size for the two-sample location 
problem are also discussed.  
所有人員於 07 月 20 日，搭車行長途之旅移師大理，由大理學院楊澤恆院長主持開幕，隨
後有兩場大會報告︰林豐澤(文化大學)、張朝元(大理學院)。7 月 21 日為大理一日遊，
上午乘船遊暢遊洱海，下午遊覽蝴蝶泉、參觀崇聖寺及大理古城。7 月 22 日乘車往昆明
出發，午後順道遊覽楚雄市仿古商店街，傍晚滇池一瞥，晚間返抵昆明。我們於 99 年
07 月 23 日搭乘中國東方航空(MU 733)至香港國際機場，轉乘中華航空 CI-606 班機返抵
桃園國際機場，結束此一豐盛學術交流與文化知性之旅。 
二、與會心得 
(1) 這次會議大致還算成功，較難令人滿意的是：居然安排昆明--大理往返各長達六及八個
小時的車程，沿途風光亦少有稱述之處，既為兩岸應學術研討會在行程安排應當更為用心。 
(2) 兩岸應用統計研討會頗受到當地學術主管及區域政府的重視，大理州、市的統計局長曾
邀宴，雲南大學王學仁校長先後兩度邀宴，這樣熱情的接待對促進兩岸學者間友誼甚有助益。 
  
(左) 第二天的會議在雲南大學科學館召開之開幕式 (右) 張建成、林真真教授
 34 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得
報告 
                                     日期：   年   
月   日 
一、國外(大陸)研究過程 
1 此次到浙大訪問，主要活動有二：進行學術報告與建立合作關係。我於九月八日早上
搭乘復興航空公司班機 GE312，由臺北松山機場直飛抵達杭州蕭山機場，由陳偉球教授
安排學生來接機，趨車赴校園附近下榻之玉泉賓館，放下行李後，隨即趕赴浙江大學應
用力學所，聆聽適逢來訪之國際知名力學學者 JD Achenbach 之報告，並與共進午餐。Prof. 
Achenbach 前一日獲頒浙江大學名譽博士學位。  
(A) 我則於當日下午 16:00pm 作了第一場報告：VORTICITY  FORCE  THEORY  AND  
ITS APPLICATIONS TO 2D AND 3D FLOW； 另一場報告於九月十三日 16:00pm：
MAXIMUM BANDGAPS  OF  NANO STRUCTURED  MATERIALS:  
CHALLENGES  AND  SOME  RECENT  
PROGRESS， 完成此行任務之一，兩個報告的摘要如下：  
  
張建成  (CHIEN-CHENG CHANG)  
計畫編
號 
NSC  97－2221－E－002－223－MY3 
計畫名
稱 
求解奈米結構頻帶之創新性理論與數值方法 
出國人
員姓名 張建成 
服務機
構及職
稱 
應用力學研究所 教授兼所長 
出國時
間 
100 年 9 月 8 日
至 
100 年 9 月 15 日 
出國地
點 
中國大陸  浙江省杭州市浙江
大學 
附件五 
 36 
detailed manipulation  of  photonic  defect  states.  They  have  important  
applications  such  as defect cavities, optical waveguides, defect-mode photonic crystal 
lasers, and feedback mirror in laser diodes. Because of the diversity of photonic crystals, there 
is a great demand  for  a  general  method  for  fast  and  accurate  prediction  of  
their  band-gap structures.  Two  fast  and  accurate  methods  of  inverse  iteration  
with  multigrid acceleration are developed to compute band structures of photonic crystals of 
general shape. In particular, we report two-dimensional photonic crystals of silicon air with an 
optimal  full  band  gap  of  gap-midgap  ratio  0.2421,  which  is  30%  larger  
than  ever reported in the literature. The crystals consist of a hexagonal array of circular 
columns, each  connected  to  its  nearest  neighbors  by  slender  rectangular  rods.  
A  systematic study  with  respect  to  the  geometric  parameters  of  the  
photonic  crystals  was  made possible  with  the  present  method  in  drawing  a  
three-dimensional  band-gap  diagram with reasonable computing time.    
(B) In recent years, we have seen a steadily growing interest in considering the effects of 
including metallic components in photonic crystals. In particular, the interaction of light  
with  metals  in  a  periodic  structure  excites  the  modes  of  surface  plasmon 
polariton  and  causes  possible  band  gaps  in  the  dispersion  relations.  It  has  
been difficult   to compute   the   band   structures   for   photonic   crystals   
with   metallic components included in the periodic units. The existence of modes of surface 
plasmon polariton presents the major difficulty not only because of the localized nature of the 
modes but also of the apparent necessity of handling a nonlinear eigenvalue problem. Here we 
show that by introducing an interfacial operator within the finite-difference framework,  we  
are  able  to  formulate  the  problem  for  computing  modes  of  surface plasmon  
polariton  in  the  format  of  standard  eigenvalue  problems.  Results  are 
uncovered  by  applying  the  method  to  periodic  structures  with  corrugated  
interfaces between metals and dielectric materials, as well as other classes of interfaces. 
 
二、研究成果 
此行另一任務為初步建立兩所之合作關係，因此在訪問期間，也分別與該校流體力學所
及固體力學專業之同仁研究生會談，瞭解雙方的興趣與已建立之研究能量。浙大固體力
學基礎相當堅強，有兩位中國科學院院士：朱位秋教授與楊衛教授(浙大現任校長)，領
域在隨機振動及微觀力學，以及千人計畫所徵聘之鄒鴻生教授，專長為智能材料。流體
力學所則相當年輕，該所所長邵雪明教授所領導之小組相當積極有幹勁，非常渴望擴充
實力引進人才，由於我個人的專賣也主要在流體力學，因此我們協議雙方學術交流以流
體力學為優先。我於九月十五日早上，搭乘復興航空公司班機 GE311，由杭州蕭山機場
直飛抵達臺北松山機場。 
 
三、建議 
1999 年第一次訪問大陸，當時覺得他們學術研究仍尚落後，缺乏 新興人才或研究題目
較舊，自此每隔數年到大陸各大學訪問演講，會發現他們在各方面都有顯著成長，約六
年前已驚歎他們設備之新穎貴重，這次浙大訪問發現他們學術能力亦有顯著成長，我的
出席國際會議及參訪報告 
第六屆海峽兩岸應用統計學術研討會 
2010 Cross Strait Workshop on Applied Statistics 
會議地點：大陸雲南 昆明、大理 
時間：July 17-23, 2010 
發表論文題目: Location Shift Study on Nakagami Parameter to the 
Ultrasound Image 
關鍵字：Wilcoxon 檢定、位置轉移問題、超音波影像、Nakagami 參數 
Keywords: Wilcoxon test, Location shift problem, Ultrasound image, Nakagami parameter 
 
報告人：台大應力所教授 張建成 
 
一、參加會議經過 
海峽兩岸應用統計學術研討會已舉辦五屆，由於這次的會議選在
大陸昆明、大理，因此本人藉此會議，除可發表個人近年來在生醫影
像相關的統計研究心得，又可領略當地少數民族的人文景觀。 
我們一行二十餘人於 99 年 07 月 17 日，搭中華航空 CI-641 班機
至香港國際機場轉乘中國東方航空(MU 734)，當日抵達雲南昆明，入
住雲南大學所經營之賓館。當日下午該校理學院唐年勝院長帶領大伙
遊覽校園附近之翠湖，湖光明媚，遊人如織，返程並參觀該校行政主
樓會澤館，瞭解該校創建的歷史。這次會議特色多樣：開會地點多、
報告時間長、參觀訪問多、搭車時間長，兩岸學者約四十餘位先後分
別在昆明之雲南財經大學、雲南大學以及大理市之大理學院進行學術
會議報告。 
07 月 18 日大會於雲南財經大學召開第一天的會議，由大陸各地及臺
灣來訪的四位學者進行報告：劉惠美(政治大學)、石磊(雲南財經大
學)、陳麗霞(政治大學)、李燊銘(逢甲大學)。下午大會安排參觀石林，
大伙體會了造物之鬼斧神工，07 月 19 日大會移師於雲南大學科學館
召開第二天的會議，有一相當盛大的開幕式，該校主管，包括雲南大
學校長王學仁教授亦參與主持，當日早上亦有兩場大會報告：蔡宗儒
(淡江大學)、張進(雲南大學)。 
我們的論文報告時間安排在 99 年 07 月 19 日下午，內容為以
Nakagami 參數為基礎之生醫影像，底下為中英文摘要： 
 (上) 第二天的會議在雲南大學科學館召開之開幕式 
 
(下) 張建成、林真真教授與雲南大學王學仁校長合影 
 
 
 赴國外(或大陸地區)出差研習心得報告 
出差地點：中國大陸  浙江省杭州市浙江大學 
時間：Sep 8-15, 2011 
 
報告人：台大應力所教授 張建成 
 
 
 
一、國外(大陸)研究過程 
1 此次到浙大訪問，主要活動有二：進行學術報告與建立合作關係。我於九
月八日早上搭乘復興航空公司班機 GE312，由臺北松山機場直飛抵達杭州蕭
山機場，由陳偉球教授安排學生來接機，趨車赴校園附近下榻之玉泉賓館，
放下行李後，隨即趕赴浙江大學應用力學所，聆聽適逢來訪之國際知名力學
學者 JD Achenbach 之報告，並與共進午餐。Prof. Achenbach 前一日獲頒浙江
大學名譽博士學位。  
(A) 我則於當日下午 16:00pm 作了第一場報告：VORTICITY  FORCE  
THEORY  AND  ITS APPLICATIONS TO 2D AND 3D FLOW； 另一場報告
於九月十三日 16:00pm：MAXIMUM BANDGAPS  OF  NANO 
STRUCTURED  MATERIALS:  CHALLENGES  AND  SOME  RECENT  
PROGRESS， 完成此行任務之一，兩個報告的摘要如下：  
  
張建成  (CHIEN-CHENG CHANG)  
INSTITUTE OF APPLIED MECHANICS, NATIONAL TAIWAN UNIVERSITY, 
TAIPEI 106, TAIWAN  
In this talk, we start with reviewing the general aspects of force element theory 
developed  by the speaker, and discuss its usefulness in applications to 2D and 
3D flow. Examples include Insect flights in simplified 2D models with 
comparisons of time-harmonic model,  realistic model (based on experiments) 
and realistic model without vertical velocity components. As an example in 3D, 
we consider various force contributions to an impulsively started finite wing in an 
incompressible fluid from the perspective of this diagnostic vorticity force theory. 
The wing plate has an aspect ratio between 1 and 3, and is placed at low and high 
angles of attack (α < and > 20o), while the Reynolds number is varied between 
100 and 300. The force theory enables us to quantify  the contributions to the 
forces exerted on the plate by all the fluid elements with nonzero  vorticity. The 
of photonic crystals of general shape. In particular, we report two-dimensional 
photonic crystals of silicon air with an optimal  full  band  gap  of  
gap-midgap  ratio  0.2421,  which  is  30%  larger  than  ever reported 
in the literature. The crystals consist of a hexagonal array of circular columns, 
each  connected  to  its  nearest  neighbors  by  slender  rectangular  
rods.  A  systematic study  with  respect  to  the  geometric  parameters  
of  the  photonic  crystals  was  made possible  with  the  present  
method  in  drawing  a  three-dimensional  band-gap  diagram with 
reasonable computing time.    
(B) In recent years, we have seen a steadily growing interest in considering the 
effects of including metallic components in photonic crystals. In particular, the 
interaction of light  with  metals  in  a  periodic  structure  excites  the  
modes  of  surface  plasmon polariton  and  causes  possible  band  gaps  
in  the  dispersion  relations.  It  has  been difficult   to compute   the   
band   structures   for   photonic   crystals   with   metallic components 
included in the periodic units. The existence of modes of surface plasmon 
polariton presents the major difficulty not only because of the localized nature of 
the modes but also of the apparent necessity of handling a nonlinear eigenvalue 
problem. Here we show that by introducing an interfacial operator within the 
finite-difference framework,  we  are  able  to  formulate  the  problem  
for  computing  modes  of  surface plasmon  polariton  in  the  format  
of  standard  eigenvalue  problems.  Results  are uncovered  by  applying  
the  method  to  periodic  structures  with  corrugated  interfaces between 
metals and dielectric materials, as well as other classes of interfaces. 
 
二、研究成果 
此行另一任務為初步建立兩所之合作關係，因此在訪問期間，也分別與該校
流體力學所及固體力學專業之同仁研究生會談，瞭解雙方的興趣與已建立之
研究能量。浙大固體力學基礎相當堅強，有兩位中國科學院院士：朱位秋教
授與楊衛教授(浙大現任校長)，領域在隨機振動及微觀力學，以及千人計畫
所徵聘之鄒鴻生教授，專長為智能材料。流體力學所則相當年輕，該所所長
邵雪明教授所領導之小組相當積極有幹勁，非常渴望擴充實力引進人才，由
於我個人的專賣也主要在流體力學，因此我們協議雙方學術交流以流體力學
為優先。我於九月十五日早上，搭乘復興航空公司班機 GE311，由杭州蕭山
機場直飛抵達臺北松山機場。 
 
三、建議 
1999 年第一次訪問大陸，當時覺得他們學術研究仍尚落後，缺乏 新興人才
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 求解奈米結構頻帶之創新性理論與數值方法
計畫主持人: 張建成
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-002-223-MY3 學門領域: 熱傳學、流體力學
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
