    Consider the source of the multimedia mainly 
generating from the digital video camera. We try to 
develop a fragile watermarking algorithm named 
compression watermarking algorithm (CWA) which 
provides compression and authentication functions to 
apply in the video surveillance system. This has the 
advantage of solving digital authentication problems 
of multimedia and reducing the memory space in the 
surveillance system. 
Traditional watermarking technologies are much more 
attention on the development of watermarking 
algorithm and usually neglect the compression 
characteristic. So the proposed CWA is worth of 
development and research. First of all, we will use 
the most general and popular video standard –MPEG-2 
as the development platform to study the core 
technology of CWA. The goals of this project 
is described as follows. 
 8； 1.Study, compare, evaluate and analyze various 
kinds of video watermarking in the 
world. 
 8； 2.Study the architecture of MOD system. 
 8； 3. Develop and implement a video watermarking 
with compression and authentication functions for 
MPEG-2 video surveillance. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Surveillance system, integrality authentication, 
embedded system, MOD, digital watermarking. 
 
each DCT block was modified to an odd or even number
depending on the value of the watermark bit. The proposed
scheme utilized the following 44 DCT transformations [11]:
Y = AXAT (1)
where X is the raw-data matrix, Y is the matrix of the
corresponding DCT coefficients, and A is a 4×4 transform
matrix with the form
A =
cbbc
aaaa
bccb
aaaa
(2)
where a =1 /2 , b = 2/1 cos(π/ 8) , and c = 2/1 cos(3π/ 8).
The scheme proposed in [7] inserts a watermark bit  at a
specific location within each quantized DCT block q. The
embedding point is determined using an adaptive selection
strategy which satisfies the requirements for size reduction,
perceptual transparency and sensitivity to tampering attacks by
specifically choosing the final non-zero coefficient in q (as
identified in a zigzag scan). Let denote the selected DCT
coefficient. The watermarked block, wq , is obtained by
modulating  to  in accordance with the following rule:





1)(
0)()1)((


Eif
Eifsign
(3)
where sign() indicates the sign of  (i.e. positive or negative)
and  denotes the absolute value of. Furthermore, E () =
(+1) mod 2 and is the number of odd value coefficients in
q.
B. Proposed Watermarking Scheme
In the present study, the watermarking scheme proposed in [7]
is extended to improve the compression efficiency at the sender
end. The basic structure of the proposed scheme is illustrated in
Figure 1. As shown, the coding process commences by using a
quantization procedure to reduce the value of the DCT
coefficients in order to enhance the compression of the video
stream. The video encoder then embeds a fragile watermark into
the quantized DCT coefficients before they are processed by the
CAVLC scheme. Note that the watermark information is
deliberately embedded in the quantized DCT block rather than
the non-quantized DCT block since the quantization process
would destroy the embedded watermark information and
prevent its extraction in the subsequent decoding process. As
described in the previous section, the watermarking scheme
proposed in [7] embeds the watermark information by
modulating the last non-zero coefficient in each DCT block to
an even or odd number depending on the value of the watermark
bit (see Eq. (3)). However, in the present study, the
watermarking scheme proposed in [7] is modified such that the
last non-zero coefficient in each 44 DCT block is either
modulated to zero or is unchanged in accordance with the
following formulation:





1)(
0)(0


Eif
Eif
(4)
On the decoder side, the watermarked bits,, are detected
in accordance with





0)(1
1)(0


Eif
Eif
(5)
where )(E = (+1) mod 2 and  is the number of odd value
coefficients in the 4 x 4 DCT watermarked block.
In Eq. (5), a value of not equal to  indicates that the
original 44 DCT block has been corrupted in some way, e.g.
by channel errors or tampering attacks. As a result, the
watermarking scheme provides the means to authenticate the
content of the received video stream and to pinpoint the location
of any changes in the original content. Furthermore, in Eq. (4),
there is a finite possibility that the value of the last non-zero
coefficient in each 44 DCT block will be modulated to zero.
In other words, the watermark embedding process has the
potential to reduce the number of encoded symbols, thereby
reducing the length of the CAVLC-encoded block. As a result,
the watermarking scheme not only provides a content
authentication capability, but also yields a post-compression
effect, thereby reducing the storage space requirements of the
encoded H.264 video sequence and improving the transmission
time.
Fig. 1 Structure of H.264 video encoder utilizing proposed
watermarking technique.
C. Post-Compression Illustration
In this section, the post-compression feature of the proposed
watermarking scheme is illustrated using a simple example. As
described in [6], the basic steps in the CAVLC encoding of a
block of transform coefficients are as follows:
1) Encode the number of coefficients and trailing ones;
2) Encode the sign of each trailing one;
3) Encode the levels of the remaining non-zero coefficients;
4)Encode the total number of zeros before the last coefficient;
5) Encode each run of zeros.
method proposed in [7], applied to both odd and even DCT
residual blocks.
A. Video Quality Degradation
The effect of the embedded watermark information on the
visual quality of the video sequences was evaluated using the
PSNR (peak signal-to-noise ratio) metric, defined as

 





M
i
N
j
jixjix
NM
MSE
MSE
dBPSNR
1 1
2
2
)],(),([)
1
(
255
log10)( (6)
where MSE denotes the mean square error between the original
image (x) and the reconstructed image (

x ), and M and N are the
length and width of the image in pixels, respectively. Note that
the evaluation trials were performed using a quality parameter
(QP) of QP=28. In addition, each video test sequence comprised
a total of 120 frames.
Figure 4 compares the frame-by-frame PSNR values of the
original Flower sequence with those of the sequences processed
using the proposed watermarking scheme, the Method 1 scheme
and the Method 2 scheme, respectively. The average PSNR
values of the non-watermarked stream and the three
watermarked streams are found to be as follows: 35.37dB,
34.25dB (proposed scheme), 34.91dB (Method 1) and 34.28dB
(Method 2). It is observed that the video quality of the sequence
processed using the Method 1 watermarking scheme is closer to
that of the original (non-watermarked) sequence than that of the
other two watermarked sequences. This result is to be expected
since the Method 1 watermarking scheme results in fewer final
non-zero coefficients in the DCT blocks being modified during
the watermark embedding process (i.e. the scheme is applied to
the odd DCT blocks only).
Fig. 4 Comparison of effects of three watermarking schemes on
video quality. (Test sequence: Flower.)
respectively. The average PSNR values are found to be as
follows: 35.02dB (non-watermarked), 32.95dB (proposed
scheme), 34.19dB (Method 1) and 33.01dB (Method 2). As in
the previous example, it is seen that the Method 1 watermarking
scheme results in a better video quality than the proposed
scheme or the Method 2 scheme since it results in the
modification of fewer DCT coefficients. Table 3 summarizes
the PSNR degradation of the three watermarking schemes for
each of the 14 test video sequences.
B. Post-Compression Performance
As illustrated in Section 2.C, the proposed watermarking
scheme has the potential to reduce the length of the CAVLC
encoded blocks since there is a finite possibility that the last
non-zero coefficient in each 44 DCT block will be modulated
TABLE 3
PSNR PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF THREE WATERMARKING SCHEMES
to “0”. In this section, the resulting coding efficiency gain is
quantified using the following compression ratio improvement
(CRI) metric:
%100
N
WN
S
SS
RIC (7)
where NS and WS are the file sizes of the non-watermarked
video sequence and the watermarked video sequence,
respectively.
Figures 5 shows the frame-by-frame CRI values of the Flower
video sequences, respectively, when processed using the
proposed watermarking scheme, the Method 1 watermarking
scheme and the Method 2 watermarking scheme. The average
CRI values for the Flower sequence are as follows: 3.92%
(proposed scheme), 1.31% (Method 1), and 3.84% (Method 2).
In other words, the post-compression performance of the
proposed scheme is superior to that of the other watermarking
schemes. Significantly, the CRI of the Method 1 watermarking
scheme is around half that of the proposed scheme or the
Method 2 scheme since it considers only the odd DCT blocks
rather than all the DCT blocks.
Table 4 compares the CRI performance of the three
watermarking schemes for each of the 14 test video sequences.
The average CRI value for the proposed are found to be as
Video Sequence
Proposed
watermarking
WatermarkKey
Watermarked Video Sequence
Video Stream
Sever
User Display User DisplayUser Display
．．．．．．．．．．
Watermark Extraction
& Qos Assessment
Watermark Extraction
& Qos Assessment
Watermark Extraction
&Qos Assessment
STB
Billing information
Billing information
Billing information
Fig. 10 Block diagram for the proposed MOD system
combined with CAVLC-based watermarking.
V. CONCLUSION
This paper has presented a novel fragile watermarking
scheme for the authentication and post-compression of
H.264/AVC video streams. The simulation results have shown
that the proposed scheme causes an imperceptible degradation
of the video quality at the receiver end and facilitates the
authentication of both the I-frames and the P-frames within the
transmitted video sequence. Significantly, the watermark
information is embedded in the final non-zero coefficient of
each quantized DCT block, and thus the watermarking scheme
yields a potential reduction in the size of the watermarked file.
In other words, the proposed scheme not only provides an
authentication capability, but also reduces both the transmission
time and the storage space requirements of the H.264 video
content.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the National Science
Council of the Republic of China, Taiwan for financial support.
Also, the authors would like to thank the anonymous reviewers
for their valuable comments that improved the manuscript.
(NSC- 99-2221-E-471-002-)
REFERENCES
[1] F. Bartolini, A. Manetti, A. Piva and M. Barni, “A data hiding approach 
for correcting errors in H.263 video transmitted over a noisy channel,”
2001 IEEE Fourth Workshop on Multimedia Signal Processing,
pp.65-70, Oct. 2001.
[2] M. Chen, Y. He, and R. L. Lagedijk,“A fragile watermark eror detection 
scheme for wireless video communications,”IEEE Trans. Multimedia,
Vol. 7, No. 2, , pp. 201-211, Apr. 2005.
[3] P. Zhou and Y. He, “A fragile watermark error detection scheme for
JVT,” 2003. ISCAS '03. Proceedings of the 2003 International
Symposium on Circuits and Systems, vol. 2, 25-28 May, 2003,
pp.956-958.
[4] C. B. Adsumilli, M. C. Q. Farias, S. K. Mitra, and M. Carli, “A robust 
error concealment technique using data hiding for image and video
transmission over lossy channels,”IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst for Video
Technol., vol. 15, no. 11, pp. 1394-1406, Nov. 2005.
[5] W.-N. Lie, T. C.-I. Lin, C.-W. Lin, “Enhancing video eror resilience by 
using data-embedding techniques,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video
Technol ., Vol. 16, No. 2, pp. 300-308, Feb. 2006.
[6] Advanced Video Coding, I. 14496-10 and I. R. H.264, 2003.
[7] C. C. Wang, Y. C. Hsu, “Fragile Watermarking Scheme for H.264/
Advanced Video Coding Streams,”Optical Engineering, vol. 49, Issue2,
pp.027003-027012, Feb, 2010.
WASET 2011 : World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, July 13-15, 2011, Amsterdam, The Netherland 2
 
 
Time 
 
Paper Title Authors 
  Wednesday:July 13, 2011 
08:30 
09:00 
 
Welcome & Registration Opening Remarks 
09:00 
11:00 
 
Chair : Khalid Alrajeh , Oscar Somsen HALL-A Session – I (July 13, 2011) 
  Adaptive Path Planning for Mobile Robot Obstacle Avoidance Rong-Jong Wai Yuan Ze University, Taiwan 
 Invalidating the Effects of Permanent Faults on Asynchronous
Machines 
Seong Woo Kwak, Jung-Min Yang 
Keimyung University, Republic of Korea 
  EEG signals classification using CLARANS Algorithm Sait Ali Uymaz, Gulay Tezel Selcuk University, Turkey 
  Transferring Route Plan over Time Barış Kocer, Ahmet Arslan Selcuk University, Turkey 
 A Diagnostic Fuzzy Rule-Based System for Congenital Heart 
Disease 
Ersin Kaya, Bulent Oran, Ahmet Arslan 
Selcuk University, Turkey 
 Improving Classification Accuracy with Discretization on 
Datasets Including Continuous Valued Features 
Mehmet Hacibeyoglu, Ahmet Arslan, Sirzat Kahramanli 
Selcuk University, Turkey 
 Hysteresis Modelling Using a New Analytical Model 
Implemented in LabVIEW 
Septimiu Motoasca Gheorghe Scutaru Andrei Negoita Razvan Ionescu 
Transilvania University of Brasov, Romania 
  A WIP control based on an intelligent controller Chih-Hui Chiu and Chun-Hsien Lin Yuan-Ze University, Taiwan 
  The safety of WiMAX in solid propellant rocket production Jiradett Kerdsri, Ornin Srihakulung Defence Technology Institute, Thailand 
  Automated Ranking of Hints Sylvia Encheva Stord/Haugesund University College, Norway 
 W-CAS:  A  Central  Users  Authentication  and  
Authorization 
S t f E t i Wid W b A li ti
Shari Tumin, Sylvia Encheva 
University of Bergen, Norway 
 Adaptive Neuro-Wavelet Synchronization Controller Design for
Nonlinear Chaotic Systems 
C. H. Chen and Y. F. Peng 
China University of Technology, Taiwan, R.O.C 
 Applications of Prediction and  Identification Using Adaptive
DCMAC Neural Networks 
Yu-Lin Liao, Ya-Fu Peng 
Ching-Yun University, Taiwan, R.O.C 
 Machine Learning Methods for Environmental Monitoring and
Flood Protection 
Alexander L. Pyayt, Ilya I.  Mokhov,  Bernhard Lang, 
Valeria  V. Krzhizhanovskaya, Robert J. Meijer 
Siemens LLC, Russian Federation 
 Adaptive TRCMAC Neural Control for Master-Slave Nonlinear
Chaotic Systems 
Ya-Fu Peng, Chiung-Chou Liao, Chun-Fei Hsu 
Ching Yun University, Taiwan 
 A Comparison of Different Soft Computing Models for Credit
Scoring 
Shola Gboyega Oroja, Nnamdi l. Nwulu 
Eastern Mediterranean University, Turkey 
 Applying machine vision techniques and artificial neural 
networks to classify Date Fruits 
Khalid Alrajeh 
King Saud, Saudi Arabia 
  Object Alignment for Military Optical Surveillance Oscar J.G. Somsen, Fok Bolderheij Netherlands Defense Academy, Netherlands 
 Optical 3D-Surface Reconstruction of Weak Textured Objects
Based on an Approach of Disparity Stereo Inspection 
Thomas Kerstein, Martin Laurowski,  Philipp  Klein, Michael 
Weyrich, Hubert Roth, Jürgen Wahrburg 
University of Siegen, Germany 
11:00 
11:15 
 
Coffee Break 
11:15 
13:00 
 
Chair : Yao-Tang Chang HALL-A Session – II (July 13, 2011) 
 Mobile sink movement scheduling for network lifetime 
optimization in wireless sensor networks 
Chu-Fu Wang, Tsung-Heng Chen 
National Pingtung University of Education, Taiwan 
  The Jitter Insensitive Pulse-Shaping Filter Design Chia-Yu Yao National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taiwan 
WASET 2011 : World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, July 13-15, 2011, Amsterdam, The Netherland 4
 
 
  Fuzzy Adjacency Matrix in Graphs Mahdi Taheri, Mehrana Niroumand Islamic Azad University, Malayer branch, Iran 
 Partial Way-Access Set-Associative Cache For Low Energy 
Consumption 
Hossein Pourmeidany 
Islamic Azad University of Najafabad, Iran 
  Thermal Buckling of Thin Rectangular FGM Plate Mostapha Raki Islamic Azad University Ahwaz Branch, Iran 
 Proposing Novel Fuzzy Considerations for Measurement 
System Analysis 
Vahid Hajipour, Hassan Haleh, Seyed Habib A. Rahmati, Abolfazl Kazemi
Qazvin Islamic Azad University, Iran 
  Design A Low Voltage- Low Offset Class AB Op-Amp Babak Gholami, Saeed Gholami, Ahmad Forouzantabar, Shahriar BazyariKazerun Branch, Islamic Azad University, Kazerun, Iran 
  Thermal Buckling Analysis of Functionally Graded Beams G. R. Koochaki, A. R. Sabounriz, H. Mohseni Monfared Islamic Azad University, Arak Branch, Iran 
 The Energy Storage System on the Batteries with PWM Method to
Regulate the Output Voltage of SEIG 
Refdinal Nazir, Andi Pawawoi, Farah Rahmadhani 
Andalas University, Indonesia 
09:00 
11:00 
 
Chair : Malinee Pongsavee, Jawad Al Khaburi HALL-B Session – IV (July 13, 2011) 
 Apoptotic effect of Curcumin (in Curcuma longa Linn.) on 
formaldehyde treated cancer cells 
Malinee Pongsavee 
Thammasat University, Rangsit Campus, Thailand 
  
Migration and Accumulation of Artificial Radionuclides in The 
System Water-Soil-Plants Depending on Polymers Applying 
Anna H. Tadevosyan, Stepan K. Mayrapetyan, Michael P. Schellenberg, 
Laura M. Ghalachyan, Albert H. Hovsepyan, Khachatur S. Mayrapetyan 
Institute of Hydroponics Problems of National Academy of Sciences, 
Republic of Armenia
 Effect of Conservation Agriculture on Maize Yield in the 
Transilvanian Plain, Romania Bucharest, Romania 
Mircea Adrian Grigoras, Agatha Popescu, Doru Pamfil, Ioan Has, Laura
Cristina Cota 
University of Agricultural Sciences and Veterinary Medicine, Romania 
 The efect of Anradera Cordifolia (Binahong) to Hematoma 
(Studied Sport Injury) 
Sri Sumartiningsih 
Semarang State University, Department of Sport Science, Indonesia 
 Metabplic Genes Expression In The Liver Of Mice During 
Malaria Disease 
Saad Hussin Alkahtani 
King Saud University, Saudi Arabia 
 Adsorption Capacities of Activated Carbons Prepared from 
Bamboo by KOH Activation 
Kamchai Nuithitikul, Samorn Hirunpraditkoon, Nathaporn Tunthong, 
Anotai Ruangchai 
King Mongkut's University of Technology North Bangkok, Thailand 
 Dispersion Improvement of Carbon Nanotubes in Polymeric 
Matrix 
Thirawudh Pongprayoon 
King Mongkut's University of Technology of North Bangkok, Thailand 
 Leukocytes count and lymphocyte proliferation of 
dinitrochlorobenzene sensitized rat supplemented wtih 
fermented goat milk 
Nurliyani, Eni Harmayani, Marsetyawan Hnes 
Universitas Gadjah Mada, Indonesia 
 The Kinetic of Biodegradation Lignin in Water Hyacinth 
(Eichhornia Crassipes) by Phanerochaete Chrysosporium using 
Solid State Fermentation (SSF) Method for Bioetanol Production
Eka Sari 
Gadjah mada University, Indonesia 
 A Novel Approach Towards LSB Substituted Data Hiding In 
Images 
Ruchira Datta 
west bengal university for technical education, India 
 FEM Analysis of the Interaction Between a Piezoresistive 
Tactile Sensor and Biological Tissues 
Ahmad Atieh, Masoud Kalantari, Roozbeh Ahmadi, Javad Dargahi, 
Muthukumaran Packirisamy, and Mehrdad Hosseini Zadeh 
Concordia University, Canada 
 The Effect of Multi-Layer Bandage on the Interface Pressure 
Applied by Compression Bandages 
Jawad Al Khaburi, Abbas A. Dehghani-Sanij, E. Andrea Nelson, Jerry
Hutchinson 
University of Leeds, UK 
  Mycoflora of activated sludge with MBRs in Berlin, Germany Mohamed F. Awad, M. Kraume Technical University Berlin, Germany 
 Phenotypic and genetic parameters of pre-weaning growth- 
traits in Gentile di Puglia lambs 
M.Selvaggi, F. Pinto, A.R. Pesce Delfino, A. Vicenti, C. Dario 
University of Studies of Bari, Italy 
  Heritability estimates of lactation traits in Maltese goat A.R. Pesce Delfino, M.Selvaggi, G.V. Celano, C. Dario University of Studies of Bari, Italy 
 Effects of safflower cake dietary supplementation on growth 
performances, carcass traits and meat quality of Garganica 
kids 
Pinto F., Dario C., Selvaggi M., Vicenti A. 
University of Studies of Bari, Italy 
 Synchronization of oestrus in goats with progestogen sponges 
and short term combined FGA, PGF2α protocols 
G. Martemucci, D. Casamassima, A. G. D’Alessandro 
University of Bari, Italy 
11:00 
11:15 
 
Coffee Break 
WASET 2011 : World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, July 13-15, 2011, Amsterdam, The Netherland 6
 
 
  Thursday:July 14, 2011 
09:00 
11:00 
 
Chair : Francisco Brójo, Elizaveta Pikushchak HALL-A Session – VII (July 14, 2011) 
 Experimental characterization of a thermoacoustic Traveling- 
wave refrigerator 
M. Pierens, J.-P. Thermeau, T. Le Pollès, P. Duthil 
Université Paris-Sud, France 
 Heat Transfer in a Parallel-Plate Enclosure with Graded-Index
Coatings on its Walls Jiun-Wei Chen, Chih-Yang Wu, and Ming-Feng Hou National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
 Effects of various substrate openings for electronic cooling 
under forced and natural convection 
Shen-Kuei Du, Jen-Chieh Chang, Chia-Hong Kao, Tzu-Chen Hung, Chii-
Ray Lin 
National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 
 Fatigue Life Consumption for Turbine Blades-Vanes 
Accelerated by Erosion-Contour Modification 
Luis M. Palacios-Pineda 
Instituto Tecnológico de Pachuca, Mexico 
 A Software for Calculation of Optimum Conditions for Cotton 
Bobbin Drying in a Hot-Air Bobbin Dryer 
Hilmi Kuscu, Ahmet Cihan, Kamil Kahveci, Ugur Akyol 
Trakya University, Turkey 
 Use of Time-Depend Effects for Mixing and Separation of the 
Two-Phase Flows 
N. B. Fedosenko, A.A Iatcenko, S.A. Levanov 
St.Petersburg State Polytechnical University, Russia 
 Suitibality of Drying Models in Defining Hot Air Drying 
Behaviour of Polyester Based Yarn Bobbins 
Kamil Kahveci, Ahmet Cihan, Uğur Akyol, Dinçer Akal 
Trakya University, Turkey 
  Investigation of Drying Kinetics of Viscose Yarn Bobbins Kamil Kahveci, Ahmet Cihan, Uğur Akyol, Dinçer Akal Trakya University, Turkey 
 Experimental and Numerical Investigation of the Dispersion of
Micro fine particles emitted by machining operations 
F.Tafnout, E.Belut, B.Oesterle, J.R. Fontaine 
Université de Nancy I, France 
  Modeling of Cross Flow Classifier with Water Injection E. Pikushchak, J. Dueck, L. Minkov Tomsk State University, Russia 
 Performance  of  a  Turbofan  Engine  with  Intercooling 
and 
R ti
Francisco Miguel Ribeiro Proença Brójo 
Universidade da Beira Interior, Portugal 
 Direct Numerical Simulation of Oxygen Transfer at the Air- Water
Interface in a Convective Flow Environment and Comparison to
Experiments 
Boris Kubrak 
Brunel University London, United Kingdom 
 Effects of Superheating on Thermodynamic Performance of
Organic Rankine Cycles 
Kyoung Hoon Kim 
Kumoh National Institute of Technology, Korea 
 Vortex-Shedding Suppression in Mixed Convective Flow past a
Heated Square Cylinder 
Rashid Ali, Nadeem Hasan 
Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh, India 
 Natural  Convection  of  Water-Based  CuO  Nanofluids 
in  a 
C li d i l E l
Baha Tanju, Kamil Kahveci 
Trakya University, Turkey 
11:00 
11:15 
 
Coffee Break 
11:15 
13:00 
 
Chair : Vipin Kumar Tripathi HALL-A Session – VIII (July 14, 2011) 
 Optimum Design of Multi-speed Gearbox Using Genetic 
Algorithm 
Vipin K. Tripathi, Mayur Giri, Pravin Abhang 
College of Engineering, Pune, India 
 Effects of Silicon Oxide Filler Material and Fibre Orientation on
Erosive Wear of GF/EP Composites 
M. Bagci, H. Imrek, Omari M. Khalfan 
Selcuk University, Turkey 
 Orders Preparation and Control on the Productive Process 
Efficiency Preparation 
F. Charrua-Santos, S. Dias, J. Matias, F. Brójo, S. Azevedo 
UNiversuty of Beira Interior, Portugal 
 Effect of speed and torque on statistical parameters in bearing 
fault detection 
S.A Aye and P.S. Heyns 
University of Pretoria, South Africa 
 Distribution of Heat Losses in a Single Glazed Flat Plate 
Collector at Variable Wind velocity – An Experimental 
Simulation 
Manhar K Bhatt, Sohensinh N Gaderia, Salim A Channiwala 
Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute Of Technology, Surat, India 
  
Nonlinear Thermal Expansion Model for SiC/Al 
Taufik Roni Sahroni, Shamsuddin Sulaiman, Ikhsan Romli, Mohd. Rizal
Salleh, Hambali Arep@Ariff 
Universiti Teknikal Malaysia Melaka, Malaysia 
 Synthesis of Four-bar Motion Generation Considering Worst 
Case Joint Tolerances 
Samer Mutawe, Rajpal.S. Sodhi, Yahia M. Al-Smadi, Ashish Bhargava 
AECOM, USA 
 An Impulse-Momentum Approach to Swing-Up Control of 
Double inverted Pendulum on a Cart 
Thamer Ali Albahkali 
King Saud University, Saudi Arabia 
WASET 2011 : World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, July 13-15, 2011, Amsterdam, The Netherland 8
 
 
 Improving Quality and Productivity using Six Sigma: A critical 
review 
Muhammad Usman Tariq 
Shaheed Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto University, Pakistan 
 The effect of sales promotion on customer attention to 
purchase , Case study : Irankhodro automaker company 
Shahriar Ansari Chaharsoughi , Maliheh Aghaei 
Jamiaia Hamdard University, Iran 
 The application of cause and Effect Diagram in Sepahan Oil 
Company 
Masoud Hekmatpanah 
Islamic Azad university, Ardestan Branch, Iran 
 A Holistic Approach for Customer Satisfaction Assessment by 
Fuzzy Logic 
Mahdi Ghaffari, Nikbakhsh Javadian, Mahdi Zowghi 
Islamic Azad University Naragh Branch, Iran 
 Value-Relevance of Accounting Information: Evidence from 
Iranian Emerging Stock Exchange 
Ali Faal ghayoumi, Mahmoud Dehghan Nayeri, Manouchehre Ansari, Taha
Raeesi 
University of Tehran, Iran 
11:00 
11:15 
 
Coffee Break 
11:15 
13:00 
 
Chair : Farzaneh Ahmadzadeh Siahrood HALL-B Session – X (July 14, 2011) 
  A FEM Study of Explosive Welding of Double Layer Tubes Roozbeh Alipour Islamic Azad University - Mahshahr Branch, Iran 
 Diagnosing the Cause and Its Timing of Changes in 
Multivariate Process Mean Vector from Quality Control Charts 
Farzaneh Ahmadzadeh Siahrood 
Islamic Azad University , Karaj Branch, Iran 
 A NSGA II for a Multi-objectives Redundancy Allocation 
Problem with the Choice of Redundancy Strategies 
Jalal Safari
Department Of Industrial Engineering, Karaj Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Karaj, Iran 
 Development Trend in Investigation of Residual Stresses in 
WC-Co coating by HVOF thermal spraying 
M.Jalali Azizpour, S.Norouzi, , H.Mohammadi Majd, D.Sajedipour
,R.Mohammadi Sadr, M.Derakhshan Mehr, S.A Shoabi, R.Mohammadi 
Islamic Azad University, Ahwaz Branch, Iran 
 The Small Scale Effect on Nonlinear Vibration of Single Layer 
Graphene Sheets 
Emad Jomehzadeh 
Shahid Bahonar University of Kerman, Iran 
 LAYMOD; A layered and modular platform for CAx 
collaboration management and supporting product data 
integration based on STEP standard 
Omid Fatahi Valilai, Mahnoud Houshmand 
Sharif University of Technology, Iran 
 Study of Coupled Lateral-Torsional Free Vibrations of 
Laminated Composite Beam: Analytical Approach 
Seyed Hassan Mirtalaie, Mohammad Ali Hajabasi 
Islamic Azad University, Najafabad Branch, Iran 
 Using Neural Network and Finite Element Methods to Detect 
Rotor Cracks 
V.PoorgharibShahi,M.Silani, M.Ahmad zade , and A.H.Ataeian 
Tiran Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tiran, Iran 
 Residual stresses in thermally sprayed Gas Turbine 
components 
M.Jalali Azizpour, S.Norouzi, D.Sajedipour, H.Mohammadi Majd 
Babol University of Technology, Iran 
 Modeling and Investigation of elongation in free explosive 
forming of aluminum alloy plate 
Roozbeh Alipour 
Islamic Azad University - Mahshahr Branch, Iran 
 The Effects of Plate-Support Condition on Buckling Strength of 
Rectangular Perforated Plates under Linearly Varying In-Plane 
Normal Load 
M. Tajdari, A. R. Nezamabadi, M. Naeemi and P. Pirali 
Islamic Azad University, Science and Research Branch, Arak, Iran 
 Optimization of dimensions of a sandwich material using 
artificial immune system (AIS) 
Khoshravan, Hashemi Nesaz 
University of Tabriz, Iran 
 Multi-Objective Simulated Annealing to Optimize Bi-Objective 
Queuing Location-Allocation Problem for Congested Systems 
Vahid Hajipour, Seyed Hamid Reza Pasandideh, Seyed Taghi Akhavan
Niaki 
Qazvin Islamic Azad University, Iran 
 Investigation of Corrosion under Insulation (CUI) and Prevent
It by Nano-Composite Coating 
M. Goodarzi, E. Noveiri 
Islamic Azad University,Ahvaz Branch, Iran 
 A New Multi-Objective Facility Location Model within Batch 
Arrival Queuing Framework 
Vahid Hajipour, Seyed Hamid Reza Pasandideh 
Qazvin Islamic Azad University, Iran 
 A Bi-Objective Model for Location-Allocation Problem within 
Queuing Framework 
Amirhossein Chambari, Seyed Habib Rahmaty, Vahid Hajipour, Aida
Karimi 
Azad University Of Qazvin iran, Iran 
 Fuel Reserve Tanks Dynamic AnalysisDue to Earthquake 
Loading 
Foad Saadi, A.Aboudi Asl 
Islamic Azd University Ahwaz branch, Iran 
 Applications and Development Trend in Mechanical Properties 
of WC-Co Coating by HVOF 
M.Jalali Azizpour, H.Mohammadi Majd, D.Sajedipour 
Production Technology Research Institute branch of ACECR, Iran 
  
Bond strength in thermally sprayed Gas Turbine shafts 
M.Jalali Azizpour, S.norouzi, D.Sajedipour, H.Mohammadi Majd, 
S.A.Hosseini, H.Talebi,A.Ghamari 
Production Technology Research Institute branch of ACECR, Iran 
WASET 2011 : World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, July 13-15, 2011, Amsterdam, The Netherland 10
 
 
 Design and using of waste water network in Naein city green 
space 
Jalil Emadi, Masoud Nasri, Abbas Soleimani 
Islamic Azad University Ardestan, Branch,Isfahan, Iran 
 Determination of Cu and Mo Potential Targets in the 
Khatunabad Based on Analytical Hierarchy Process, West of 
Mianeh 
Reza Noori, Faranak Feizi, Mohammad Reza Jafari 
Islamic Azad University North Tehran Branch, Islamic Republic of Iran 
  Evaluation of Groundwater Trend of Arsanjan plain Mohammad Hossein Hojati, Fardin Boustani Islamic Azad University,Estahban Branch, Iran 
 The Impact of Folk's Commonsense Knowledge to Market 
Activities: Evidence from High-Frequency Market Data and 
Real-Time News 
Kun Chen, Huaiqing Wang, Jian Yin 
City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 
11:00 
11:15 
 
Coffee Break 
11:15 
13:00 
 
Chair : Sandu Liliana HALL-A  Session – XII (July 15, 2011) 
  Slug tracking simulation of severe slugging experiments Tor Kindsbekken Kjeldby Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Norway 
  In vitro-in vivo correlation-Pharmacokinetic simulation Ghulam Murtaza Comsats Institute of Information Technology, Pakistan 
 Modelling of Soil Structure Interaction of Integral Abutment 
Bridges 
Thevaneyan K David, John P Forth 
University of Leeds, United Kingdom 
  FEA for Teeth Preparations Marginal Geometry Sandu Liliana, Topală Florin,Porojan Sorin V. Babes University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Romania 
 A New Heuristic Algorithm For The Dynamic Facility Layout 
Problem With Budget Constraint 
Parham Azimi, Hamid Reza Charmchi 
Islamic Azad University (Qazvin Branch), Iran 
 Simulation Modeling for Analysis and Evaluation of the Internal
Handling Fleet System at Shahid Rajaee Container Port 
Parham Azimi, Mohammad Reza Ghanbari 
Islamic Azad University (Qazvin Branch), Iran 
 A study of the effects of machining parameters on the surface 
roughness in turning operations by back propagation neural 
network 
H.Mohammadi Majd, GH. Davoudi , M.Jalali Azizpour 
Production Technology Research Institute, Iran 
 Prediction the limiting drawing ratio in deep drawing process 
by back propagation artificial neural network 
H.Mohammadi Majd, M.Jalali Azizpour, M. Goodarzi 
Islamic Azad University, Ahwaz branch, Iran 
 Temperature Effect on the Mechanical Properties of Pd3Rh and
PdRh3 Ordered Alloys 
Jamal Davoodi, Javad Moradi 
University of Zanjan, Iran 
 A Multiclass BCMP Queueing Modeling and Simulation-Based 
Road Traffic Flow Analysis 
Jouhra Dad, Mohammed Ouali, Yahia Lebbah 
LITIO Lab, Algeria 
  Headway Modeling In Rural Two-Way Two-Lane Highways Gandhi Sofia, Ayman abdul Mawjoud Al-Mustansiriya University, Iraq 
 A Study On Barreling Behavior During Upsetting Process Using
Artificial Neural Networks With Levenberg Algorithm 
H.Mohammadi Majd, M.Jalali Azizpour 
Production Technology Research Institute, Iran 
13:00 
14:00 
 
Lunch Break 
09:00 
11:00 
 
Chair : Teimurazi Davitashvili HALL-B  Session – XIII (July 15, 2011) 
 Research on Laws and Regulations of Sustainable Construction in
China 
Wei Zhang, Jing Dong 
Chongqing University, China 
  
Quadrotor Black-Box System Identification 
Stanculeanu Ionel Cristian, Theodor Borangiu 
University Politehnica of Bucharest, Faculty of Automatic Control and 
Computers, Romania 
 Study on Applying Fuzzy AHP and GRA in Selection of Agent 
Construction Enterprise 
Huan Yan 
Chongqing University, P. R. China 
 Evaluation of Main Parameters of Data Transmission for VoIP 
for Integration of Power Line Carrier Equipment Supporting 
Standard IEEE 802 in the Packet Networks for Energy Grids 
Anton Merkulov
Almaty Institute of Power Engineering and Telecommunications, 
Kazakhstan 
 GenCos’ Optimal Bidding Strategy Considering Market Power 
and Transmission Constraints: A Cournot-based Model 
Ali Badri 
Shahid Rajayee Teacher Training University, Iran 
 Application of Homotopy Perturbation Method to Solve Steady
Flow of Walter B Fluid a vertical channel in Porous Media 
Abdolreza Memari 
Islamic Azad University,Mahshahr,Iran 
 Prediction of Possible Points of Hydrates origin in the Main
Pipelines Under the Condition of Non-stationary Flow 
Teimurazi Davitashvili, Givi Gubelidze, Inga Samkharadze
I.I.Vekua Institute of Applied Mathematics of Tbilisi State University, 
Georgia 
WASET 2011 : World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, July 13-15, 2011, Amsterdam, The Netherland 12
 
 
 The Effect Of Super Nitro Plus,Nitroxin And Biophosphorus On 
Yield And Yield Components Of Maize Under Different Levels 
Chemical Fertilizers In Normal And Water Stress Condition 
Felora Rafiei, Shahram Shoaei 
Islamic Azad University,Ashtian Branch, Iran 
 Grain Yield And Unfilled Kernel And Vegetative Stages Of 
Sunflower (Helianthus Annus L.) Under Levels Of Irrigation 
And Nitrogen Application 
Shahram Shoaei 
Islamic Azad University Ashtian Branch, Iran 
 Effects of limited irrigation on yield and yield components of 
three sunflower cultivars 
Farhad Farahvash, Bahram Mirshekari 
Islamic Azad University, Tabriz, Iran 
 Study of Water Relations, Chlorophyll and their Correlations 
with Grain Yield in Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) Genotypes 
Mokhtar Ghobadi, Saeed Khosravi, Danial Kahrizi and Firooz Shirvani 
College of Agriculture, Razi University, Kermanshah, Iran 
 Prediction of watermelon consumer acceptability based on 
vibration response spectrum 
R.Abbaszadeh, A.Rajabipour, M.Delshad, M.J.Mahjub, H.Ahmadi 
University of Tehran, Iran 
 An Assessment of Water Quality and Health Situation of 
Kowsar Dam Reservoir 
Jamalodin Alvani, Fardin Boustani 
Islamic Azad University,Bushehr Branch, Iran 
 The effect of lack on-time mechanization on the performance of 
sugar beet production in Fars province 
Behfar Farzaneh 
Islamic Azad University of Iran Eghlid Branch, Iran 
  Freezing Resistance in Olive (Olea Europaea L.) Pegah Sayyad-Amin Shiraz University, Iran 
 Methods For Solving Propagation Problems In Olive (Olea 
Europaea L.) 
Pegah Sayyad-Amin 
Shiraz University, Iran 
 Root Growth Of Morus Alba As Affected By Size Of Cuttings 
And Polythene Low Tunnel 
Irfan Ahmad, Rashid Ahmad Khan, M.Tahir Siddiqui, Tahir Munir Butt 
University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan 
13:00 
14:00 
 
Lunch Break 
10:00 
12:00 
 
Chair : J. A. Nelson e-Session – XV (July 13-14-15, 2011) 
  Particle Swarm Optimization Approach on Flexible Structure 
at Wiper Blade System 
Ali Zolfagharian, Mohd, Zarhamdy Md. Zain , Abd Rahim AbuBakar, 
Mohamed Hussein 
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, Malaysia 
  Flow Optimization for Iron Ore Reclaiming Process Bruno Eduardo Lopes VALE, Brazil 
 Site Inspection and Evaluation Behavior of Qing Shang 
Concrete Bridge 
Haleem K. Hussain, Liu Gui Wei, Zhang Lian Zhen, Yongxue Li 
Harbin Institute of Technology, China 
 Globally convergent edge-preserving reconstruction with 
contour-line smoothing 
Marc C. Robini, Pierre-Jean Viverge, Yuemin Zhu, Jianhua Luo 
INSA-Lyon, France 
 Data-organization before learning Multi-Entity Bayesian 
Networks structure 
Heni Bouhamed 
Ecole Nationale d'Ingénieurs de Sfax Tunisia, Tunisia 
 Real-time ROI Acquisition for Unsupervised and Touch-less
Palmprint 
Yi Feng, Jingwen Li, Lei Huang, Changping Liu 
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R.China 
  Feature Point Inspired Tracking for People Counting Jingwen Li, Wenhua Ma, Lei Huang, Changping Liu Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, P.R.China 
  On Mixing Tertiary Amines for Gas Purification Wael Ahmed Fouad Ahmed Mohamed The Petroleum Institute, United Arab Emirates 
  Investing Mobile Payment Services in Malaysia:Pros and 
Cons 
Tahereh Hasani, Ali Dehghantanha 
Asia Pacific University College of Technology and Innovation, 
Malaysia 
 Safety investigation of eccentrically loaded bolted 
connections in direct shear and tension using accurate 
procedure 
Abubakar Idris and Shittu Abdulhakeem 
Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria 
 Site Inspection and Evaluation Behavior of Qing Shan 
Concrete Bridge 
1Haleem K. Hussain, Liu Gui Wei, Zhang Lian Zhen, Yongxue Li 
Harbin Institute of Technology, China 
  On the Fp-normal subgroups of finite groups Hitian Liu, Deqin Chen Sichuan University of Science and Engineering, China 
  The Organizational Crisis Caused by Man Marie Mikusova Technical University of Ostrava, Czech Republic 
  Stochastic Programming Model for Power Generation Takayuki Shiina Chiba Institute of Technology, Japan 
 A Virtual Simulation Environment for a design & verification of a 
GPGPU 
Kwang Y. Lee, Tae R. Park, Jae C. Kwak, and Yong S. Koo 
Seokyeong University, South Korea 
 14
 Technical Equipment 
1- Laptop Computer 
2- LCD Data Projector 
5- PowerPoint Presentation Remote with Laser Pointer 
6- PowerPoint Presentation/ Acrobat Reader Software
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王春清 計畫編號：99-2221-E-471-002- 
計畫名稱：具錯誤偵測及後壓縮之 MOD 視訊編解碼器之關鍵技術開發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
