2 
from coordination operations. On the other hand, some research proposed regarding a DC 
construction model. For example, Wu et al. (2007) proposed a CDCORM (Collaboration Design 
Chain Operations Reference Model) and Choi et al. (2005) suggested a DCCF (Design Chain 
Collaboration Framework). 
Although relevant literatures argued that introducing a DC can upgrade SC’s PIC, as a matter of fact, 
successful cases are rare. The practitioners believe that the cause may be in the negative effect of 
“coordination operation” of manufacturer and supplier. In fact, when manufacturer and supplier 
desire to undertake product design and development under a DC framework, coordination plays a 
key role if mutual collaboration is to be complete. In an SC operating environment, all partners’ 
operations must go through coordination in order to make operations effective (Nieto & Santamaría, 
2007). In order to be able to coordinate effectively, researchers like Ghiassi et al. (2003), Goutsos & 
Karacapilidis (2004) proposed increasing coordination ability through information technique. 
Nevertheless, Langerak & Hultink (2008) found that in fact coordination operations are 
time-consuming. Even if through the aid of relevant techniques, a great quantity of time will still be 
needed. This result is very likely to prolong time-to-market so that finally the new product may not 
meet customer’s needs. Langerak and Hultink’s research result corresponds to observations of the 
industry practitioners. Consequently, how to conquer the negative effect derived from coordination 
before introducing and constructing DC is key to effective execution of DC. From small number of 
successful cases of DC such as Kwang Yang Motor, Sanyang Industry, AAEON Technology Inc., 
Avent, Amkor, etc., the practitioners believe that before introducing and constructing DC, these 
cases had executed some key operations to change collaboration model between supplier and 
manufacturer so that both could effectively raise their innovation ability under the control of DC. 
But as for what key operations successfully improved the negative effect of the coordination 
operation between supplier and manufacturer, it does not be well defined yet.  
Based on the above discussion, the objective of this empirical study is to identify the key factors 
that will affect the successful execution of DC. This study is based on the samples from the 
International Manufacturing Strategy Survey (IMSS) database, a global research network initiated 
by London Business School. 
The remaining part of this report is structured as follows. Section 2 is the literature review and the 
hypothesis. Section 3 describes the methodology. Section 4 shows the empirical test results and 
discussion. Finally, we draw our conclusion and indicate directions for further research. 
 
2. LITERATURE AND HYPOTHESIS  
Some observation showed that, before introducing successful cases to DC, two items of key 
operations would be carried out to change the cooperative relationship between supplier and 
manufacturer - business process reengineering (BPR) and buildup of a supplier management system 
(SMS). An observation on some cases suggested that BPR becomes a key cause because it can solve 
problems that in the past collaborative design could only be undertaken through coordination. 
Langerak and Hultink (2008) pointed out coordination operations are time-consuming. In practice, a 
4 
3. RESEARCH DESIGN 
3.1 Survey Database and Test Samples 
This study is based on the database of IMSS. The IMSS is an international cooperative research 
network focusing on manufacturing strategy and SCM. It gathers data about practice and 
performance related to manufacturing strategy in a global setting, and data pertaining to practice in 
SCM are also collected. The survey employed questionnaire of five-point Likert scale as the means 
of measurement. 
The survey data of fifth iteration (IMSS-Ⅴ) was published in early 2010. It is involved by 
researchers worldwide including Europe, the Americas (including Canada), and some of Asia 
countries (Taiwan, China, and Japan). IMSS-V focuses upon the manufacturing firms related to 
fabricated metal products; machinery and equipment; office, accounting and computing machinery; 
electrical machinery and apparatus; radio, television and communication equipment and apparatus; 
medical, precision and optical instruments, watches and clocks; motor vehicles, trailers and 
semi-trailers; other transport equipment. Total 562 responses from 17 countries were recorded in the 
first releasing. These data were used in this study. 
Firstly, 156 samples were eliminated whose responses were not complete or with missing values for 
variables of BPR, SMS, DC effectiveness, and PIC. Therefore, only 406 of the 562 responses were 
remained. And then, the samples were further classified by citing the method of Frohlich and 
Westbrook (2001). As a result, only 63 samples were able to fit our research purpose, i.e. the sample 
size of this study is 63. 
 
3.2 Operationalization Variables and Independent Construct Measurement 
In terms of research purpose, this study involves the testing of four variables: BPR, SMS, DC 
effectiveness, and PIC. 
Definition of BPR in this study focused on the activities of organizational integration when firm try 
to improve product design and innovation. IMSS-V includes four kinds of organizational integration 
operations on product research and development with suppliers and manufacturers, including: (1) 
rules and standards, (2) formal meetings, (3) standard process, and (4) concurrent engineering, to 
measure the effectiveness of organizational business process integration and reengineering. For 
these four kinds of integration activities, this study used independent sample t-test and Skewness 
and Kurtosis to check whether the data are normally distributed at first. Test result indicated that 
data distribution has shown normally. To ensure that these test variables meet this research’s 
requirements, then a construct validity test for BPR by factor analysis was performed. The test 
results indicated that the Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin (KMO) measure of performance adequacy was 0.7, 
Bartlett’s test of sphericity was significant, Factor loading for all four items exceeded 0.60, and the 
results of Cronbach’s α in factor exceeded 0.7. 
 IMSS-V includes five measurement items regarding to SMS: (1) logistical costs, (2) innovation 
and co-design, (3) physical proximity, (4) information sharing, and (5) potential to measure. 
6 
5. CONCLUSION 
The objective of this empirical study is to identify the key factors that will affect the successful 
execution of DC. The test results showed that two factors, BPR as well as SMS, are able to 
significantly influence the effectiveness of DC. In addition, the test results also proved that an 
effective DC framework can significantly improve the PIC of manufacturing firms. In the 
implication, manufacturer can consider the result to construct an effective DC framework and to 
secure high innovative performance through successful execution of DC. On the other hands, 
researchers can refer to the result to explore deeply the issues of DC.  
[note] The result of this study has been presented in「11th Asia Pacific Industrial Engineering & 
Management Conference 2010」：D. Y. Sha, Kun-Chih Huang, P.K. Chen (2010.12), "A Study on the 
Key Factors of Design Chain Effectiveness", Proceedings of the 11th Asia Pacific Industrial 
Engineering & Management Systems Conference (APIEMS2010), Melaka, Malaysia, Paper ID: 
305. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1]  Allen, M.W. and Brady, R.M. (1997) TQM, organizational commitment, perceived 
organizational support, and intraorganisational communication. Management Communication 
Quarterly, 12, 316-341. 
[2]  Choi, Y., Kim, K., and Kim, C. (2005) A design chain collaboration framework using reference 
models. The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 26, 183-190. 
[3]  Fagerstrom and Jackson (2002) Efficient collaboration between main and sub-suppliers. 
Computer in Industry, 49, 25-35. 
[4]  Frohlich, M.T. and Westbrook, R. (2001) Arcs of integration: an international study of supply 
chain strategies. Journal of Operation Management, 19, 185-200. 
[5]  Ghiassi, M. and Spera, C. (2003) Defining the internet-based supply chain system for mass 
customized markets. Computers and Industrial Engineering, 45, 17-41. 
[6]  Goutsos, S. and Karacapilidis, N. (2004) Enhanced supply chain management for e-business 
transactions. International Journal of Production Economics, 89, 141-152. 
[7]  Guillen, G., Badell, M., and Puigjaner, L. (2007) A holistic framework for short-term supply 
chain management integrating production and corporate financial planning. International 
Journal of Production Economics, 106, 288-306. 
[8]  Kallio, J., Saarinen, T., Salo, S., Tinnilä, M. and Vepsäläinen, A.P.J. (1999) Drivers and tracers 
of business process changes. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 8, 125-142. 
[9]  Kim, B. (2000) Coordinating an innovation in supply chain management. European Journal of 
Operational Research, 123, 568-584. 
[10]  Kuei, C., Madu, C.N., Lin, C. and Chow, W.S. (2002) Developing supply chain strategies 
based on the survey of supply chain quality and technology management. The International 
Journal of Quality & Reliability Management, 19, 889-901. 
[11]  Langerak, F. and Hultink, E.J. (2008) The effect of new product development acceleration 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 10月 12 日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
 第十一屆亞太工業工程與管理系統研討會，主要是由國際期刊 IEMS Journal 與 Universiti Malaya
共同舉辦。APIEMS 主要提供工業工程與管理領域學術界/產業界的研究者和工程師交流最新發展技術
的論壇。本次研討會同時與 The 14th Asia Pacific Regional Meeting of International Foundation 
for Production Research 和 The 3rd AUN/SEED-Net Regional Conference in Manufacturing 
Engineering 兩項研討會聯合舉行。 在年初獲悉第十一屆工業工程與管理系統國際研討會的訊息後，
便積極準備投稿，於 5月 24日將論文摘要投出，6月中旬收到摘要接受通知，7月 30日將論文全文投
出，9 月下旬收到全文接受通知。之後即開始後續報名與行程安排。於 12 月 07 日搭機前往馬來西亞
參加 APIEMS 研討會。 
我們的報告被歸類在 Supply Chain Management and Logistics 的 session, 于 12月 08 日 15:10
開始報告，我們的報告為此 session 的第二篇。報告十五分鐘，之後有與會學者提問，提問的內容皆
相當有深度且有意義，部份學者特別對 IMSS-V跨國合作問卷調查事項感到興趣。這個 session 所發表
的六篇論文，涵蓋不同產業的供應鏈管理議題，透過自己與其他學者的報告還有問題討論的互動，可
以充分了解我們的研究內容中仍可進行修正之處，另一方面也了解到，供應鏈管理議題在國際上主要
的研究方向。 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－216－024－ 
計畫名稱 整合設計鏈與顧客鏈建構高創新力供應鏈之研究(I) 
出國人員
姓名 
沙永傑 
服務機構
及職稱 
中華大學科技管理學系 
會議時間 
99年12月07日至 
99年12月10日止 
會議地點 Melaka, Malaysia (馬來西亞) 
會議名稱 
(中文) 第十一屆亞太工業工程與管理系統研討會 
(英文) The 11th Asia Pacific Industrial Engineering & Management Systems Conference 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 影響設計鏈有效執行關鍵因素之探討 
(英文) A Study on the Key Factors of Design Chain Effectiveness  
 3 
四、論文摘要 
The concept of supply chain management (SCM) that integrating upstream and downstream 
has been well accepted in the industries to improve the competitiveness of products in 
today’s highly volatile global market. However, product innovation capability becomes 
critical once most of the competitors sit on equal SCM basis. It was found in the industries 
that traditional collaboration between manufacturer and supplier had limited help to the 
innovation of product and no strong connection between the “collaboration” and “product 
innovation” had been confirmed in relative studies. The short of product innovation in 
traditional supply chain may be explained by over-emphasis on manufacturing operation 
in the past. Although design chain has been suggested in recent years by practitioners 
and scholars to be integrated into traditional supply chain so that problem of product 
innovation could be improved, very few successful cases are reported yet. An empirical 
study by regression was performed to find thoroughly regarding key factors that may 
influence the effectiveness of design chain to be integrated into traditional supply chain. 
The analysis results reveal that situation of business process reengineering as well as 
supplier management are the mainly factors. 
Keywords: supply chain; design chain; business process reengineering; supplier management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 整合設計鏈與顧客鏈建構高創新力供應鏈之研究(I)
計畫主持人: 沙永傑
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-216-024- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1.Join IMSS-V (International Manufacturing Strategy Survey) program：
collected 31 enterprises' sample data in Taiwan, received 725 
enterprises' sample data from 17 countries worldwide (including Taiwan).
 
2.The IMSS-V database could be used for further research works regarding 
the subjects of Supply Chain Management 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
