報告內容 
 
1. 研究目的 
Various multimedia service platforms are used to construct and transmit multimedia 
objects over Internet. However, the multimedia objects cannot be shared among different 
multimedia service platforms because of the lack of industrial standard to support users to 
exchange, access, share and manipulate multimedia objects. In order to solve the above 
problem, an industrial standard for the exchange of multimedia objects is needed. To solve 
the problem, the MPEG-21 is introduced. MPEG-21 is an open standards-based framework 
for multimedia delivery and consumption, which aims to enable the share of multimedia 
resources across a wide range of networks and devices [2]. 
Multimedia services have become extremely popular and its use grows exponentially 
in recent years. The increasing use of multimedia services over Internet invokes several 
problems that need to be resolved. A typical example is that the overloading of the media 
transmission, which increases multimedia retrieval latency, makes the infrastructure’s 
backbone be the bottleneck. The limitation of network bandwidth between a client and a 
remote server results in a major obstacle on the performance of multimedia presentations.  
To alleviate the network problem, peer-to-peer (P2P) networks are introduced. 
Peer-to-peer networks make resources, e.g., storages, CPU cycles, and media contents, 
available at the edges of the Internet. Peer-to-peer networks have recently been realized 
through resource sharing applications such as Napster, Gnutella, and Freenet. However, 
there are still a lot of problems in transmitting and sharing the multimedia objects in 
peer-to-peer networks. Peer-to-peer networks have not been used effectively for adaptive 
multimedia services, users cannot retrieve multimedia objects at anytime, anywhere with 
different devices such as mobile phones and personal digital assistants. The lack of a 
dynamic resource sharing, locating, and adapting architecture for multimedia objects in 
peer-to-peer networks makes it becomes a critical issue in deploying multimedia services 
over heterogeneous networking environments.  
How to display the same media on different devices connected to the network is 
becoming another important issue. This can be achieved by adapting the content according 
to the capabilities of the receiving user's device and the system used to display the content. 
Several works have been proposed on adapting multimedia objects by using transcoding 
proxies. Han et al. presented an adaptive image transcoding proxy for determining whether 
to transcode and how to transcode an image for mobile web users [5]. In [11], Mohan et al. 
proposed an InfoPyramid data model to adapt web contents to mobile users. 
Despite the success of transcoding proxies in the Web, transcoding services have not 
been used effectively for adapting MPEG-21 digital items in P2P networks. In order to deal 
with such a problem, we will develop a peer-to-peer system using MPEG-21 digital item 
declaration and adaptation against the aforementioned deficiencies. By equipping digital 
item declaration and adaptation for different multimedia objects according to devices' 
capabilities, the peer-to-peer system can enhance the utilization of media transmission, and 
can satisfy the requirement of adaptive multimedia presentations over heterogeneous 
networking environments. The peer-to-peer system will provide a content-based routing 
algorithm for different multimedia objects, a multimedia sharing architecture for resource 
locating, and a distributed transcoding scheme to transform the multimedia objects 
according to devices' capabilities and networking environments. The peer-to-peer system not 
only makes the content adaptation more effectively, but also maximizes the delivered quality. 
Our proposed multimedia peer-to-peer system will cover the following concerns: (1) to 
develop a dynamic routing and resource locating algorithm for retrieving multimedia objects 
in peer-to-peer networks using MPEG-21 digital item declaration, (2) to invent a caching 
and replacement algorithm for managing transcoded MPEG-21 digital items. 
 3. 研究方法及系統架構 
 
In order to have a more efficient content adaptation over wireless mobile networks, a new P2P 
system architecture should be designed for sharing MPEG-21 digital items. The proposed system 
uses a super-peer topology for routing message among heterogeneous networking environments. 
A super-peer provides routing service and metadata exchanging service. Several super-peers form 
a super-peer network for resource discovery of MPEG-21 digital items. The super-peer is able to 
provide (i) a message routing mechanism to route the query messages among connected peers and 
(ii) a message exchanging mechanism that can ease the communication among different peers. 
Each peer consists of following layers: (1) User Interface Layer, (2) Media Support Layer, and (3) 
Peer-to-peer Service Layer. The User Interface Layer is responsible for handling the user 
interface. The Media Support Layer is responsible for content adaptation, metadata transform, 
metadata indexing, and resource management. The Peer-to-peer Service Layer is responsible for 
metadata searching, resource retrieval, and query routing. 
In Media Support Layer, the resource and metadata adaptation modules are responsible for 
transforming the digital item from original one to the adapted one, which are based on the 
information of the requester's usage environment description (UED) and universal constraints 
description (UCD). The resource management module is responsible for managing cached digital 
items, including transformed metadata and adapted bitstream resources. The metadata and 
bitstream resources of the digital items are stored in the metadata cache and resource cache 
respectively. The metadata indexing module is responsible for indexing metadata descriptions of 
MPEG-21 digital items. In Peer-to-peer Service Layer, the metadata search module is responsible 
for searching MPEG-21 digital items in local and remote peers. The resource retrieval module is 
responsible for retrieving the desired MEPG-21 digital item from remote peers. The query routing 
module is responsible for routing the messages that are based on the XML-formatted metadata 
message to/from different peers. Figure 2 depicts the abstract P2P system architecture for 
adapting digital items in MPEG-21 space. 
 In order to achieve resource sharing among heterogeneous networking environments, the 
proposed P2P system uses various approaches to integrate super-peers with heterogeneous 
networking environments. In the proposed P2P model, a super-peer acts as a normal peer that 
cooperates with other peers in a resource sharing network of MPEG-21 digital items. From a 
normal peer's view, the super-peer is nothing different with other normal peers despites it 
forwarding message to/from super-peer network. A super-peer also acts as a server that provides 
resource lookup service for a resource sharing network. When a super-peer receives a query 
message from peers, it forwards the query message to the super-peer network if it cannot find any 
result from its lookup service. Figure 3 shows the proposed P2P resource sharing network. 
  
Digital Item 
Resources
Peer  Request
MPEG-21 Digital Item
Declaration
MPEG-21 Resource Sharing 
Peer-to-peer System
Metadata 
Adaptation
Resource 
Adaptation
Media Support Layer
Identifiers
Descripters
Rights 
Expression 
Language
MPEG-21 Usage
Environment
Network 
Characteristics
Terminal 
Capabilities
User 
Characteristics
Peer-to-peer Service Layer
Query 
Routing
Metadata 
Search
Resource
Management
Metadata
Indexing
User Interface Layer
Resource 
Retrieval
MPEG-21
Digital Item
 
Figure 2. The abstract system diagram of the proposed P2P architecture. 
 
engine that is responsible for transforming digital item according requester’s device and 
networking environments. 
When a user wants to perform digital item adaptation, the user connects the resource-providing 
peer. The user sends a request for fetching a remote digital item. The resource-providing peer 
performs content adaptation according to the user’s usage environment description (UED) and 
universal constraints description (UCD). After the digital item is adapted, the transformed digital 
item description is cached in the description cache, and the adapted bitstream resource is cached 
in the resource cache.  Meanwhile, the adapted digital item is sent to the user. The detail steps 
are depicted as follows. 
1. A user connects with the resource-providing peer and sends a request for retrieving the 
selected bitstream resource with user’s usage environment description (UED) and universal 
constraints description (UCD). These information are represented in the form of a XML 
metadata. The usage environment description (UED) contains terminal descriptors, natural 
environment descriptors, and user preferences. The universal constraints description (UCD) 
expresses various constraints, e.g., constraint on usage and constraint on usage environment, 
which can limit adaptation operation itself and/or result of adaptation.  
2. The resource-providing peer receives the request and retrieves usage environment 
description (UED) and universal constraints description (UCD) from the XML metadata.    
The resource-providing peer then determines the appropriate resource adaptation based on 
the request from the user, the XML metadata, and contents of the requested DI.  If a similar 
bitstream was requested in the past and the cached bitstream is transcoded, the 
resource-providing peer sends back the requested bitstream resource directly to the user.   
For the requesting bitstream that is not adapted, the resource-providing peer performs 
transcoding actions to the bitstream resource based on the information in the DIA tools. 
Finally, the adapted bitstream resource is sent to the user. 
 
4. 演算法 
 
In the proposed P2P system, the management of adapted digital items is important. 
With a well-designed caching scheme, the transcoding delay variations of digital items can 
be reduced during subsequent resource sharing among different networked devices. 
Consider that a request of a digital item, i.e., version u of bitstream i, is arrived at the digital 
item provider and no such version is stored in the cache. The adaptation engine is 
responsible for transforming bitstream i according the requester's device and networking 
environments. After the version u of bitstream i is adapted, the version u of bitstream i is 
cached. If the available storage space is greater than the size Su of the version u then it 
causes no problem, the version u of bitstream i is put into the cache. If the available storage 
is less than the size Su of the version u, then some storage space are required to be freed 
from the cache.  
If there has several versions of bitstream i are cached, the profit for caching a version v 
of bitstream i is defined as the minimal cost for transcoding bitstream from version u to 
version v, where [ ]iu V G  has the minimal cost path ( )p u v  . The caching profit value 
Profitseq is defined as follows: 
[ ]
( )
Profit min
iseq u v V G
v
TC u v
S
 

  
where seq denotes the sequence number of requesting the version u of bitstream i. 
TC(u, v) = TDuv * CUuv which denotes the cost of transcoding bitstream from u to version v. 
The value is calculated from transcoding delay time TDuv and average CPU usage CUuv. If 
there doesn't have any version of bitstream i is cached, the profit for caching a version v of 
bitstream i is defined as the cost of downloading version u from media source peer SP plus 
the minimal cost for transcoding bitstream from version u to version v. The caching profit 
value Profitseq is defined as follows: 
, [ ]min ( )
Profit i
sp u u v V G
seq
v
DC TC u v
S
  
  
[6] ISO/IEC 21000-7:2004, “Information Technology - Multimedia Framework (MPEG-21) 
Part 7: Digital Item Adaptation”, 2004. 
[7] S. Jin and A. Bestavros, “Gismo:  A generator of internet streaming media objects and 
workloads”, ACM SIGMET-RICS Performance Evaluation Review, 29(3), 2001, pp. 
2–10. 
[8] B. L., C. P., F. L., P. G., and S. S, “Web caching and zipf-like distribution:  Evidence 
and implications”, IEEE INFOCOM, pages 126–134, 1999. 
[9] Y. Li, C. Y. Chiang, and M. T. Liu, “Effective web caching for gprs networks”,   
Proceedings of the 2001 International Conference on Computer Networks and Mobile 
Computing. 
[10] A. Mahanti, “Web proxy workload characterization and modeling”, Master’s thesis, 
Department of Computer Science, University of Saskatchewan, Sept. 1999. 
[11] R. Mohan, J. R. Smith, and C. S. Li, “Adapting multimedia internet content for 
universal access”, IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, 1(1), Mar. 1999, pp. 104–114. 
[12] J.  Robinson  and  M.  Devarakonda, “Data cache  management using 
frequency-based replacement”,   Proceedings of the 1990 ACM SIGMETRICS, 1990. 
[13] A.  Vetro  and  C.  Timmerer, “Digital  item  adaptation: overview of 
standardization and research activities.   IEEE Transactions on Multimedia”, 7(3), June 
2005, pp. 418–426. 
[14]  R. Wooster and M. Abrams, “Proxy caching the estimates page load delays”,  
Proceedings of 6th International World Wide Web Conference, pages 325–334, Apr. 
1997. 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-218-012 
計畫名稱 支援 MPEG-21 數位內容互通基礎架構之同儕運算網路平台研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
許子衡 
南台科技大學資訊工程系助理教授 
會議時間地點 April 24 - 26, 2008, Busan, Korea. 
會議名稱 
The 2nd International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering 
(MUE2008) 
發表論文題目 
A Transcoding Architecture for Adapting MPEG-21 Digital Items in Mobile 
Networks 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此次我報告的論文的領域是多媒體通訊，論文名稱為”A Transcoding Architecture 
for Adapting MPEG-21 Digital Items in Mobile Networks”，報告時間為二十六號早上。
本人於四月二十四號搭機前往韓國釜山並於隔天前往會場註冊並參與相關的會議，此
次論文的報告時間排在四月二十六號。會議結束後於四月二十七號搭機返台。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
MUE2008 (The 2nd International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous 
Engineering) 是由韓國 Science & Engineering Research Support Center (SERSC)組織主
辦的一個 Conference，會議中的主要議題涵蓋了包括 Ubiquitous Computing and Beyond, 
Multimedia Modeling and Processing, Ubiquitous Services and Applications, Multimedia 
Services and Applications, Multimedia and Ubiquitous Security 等多個與多媒體與普及運
算有關的研究領域。此次 Conference 在韓國釜山 Hanwha Resort Haeundae 舉辦三天，
從四月二十四到四月二十六 日，總共有 479 篇論文投稿, 只有 131 篇論文被接受, 接
受率約為 27%。會議以三個 sessions 同時進行。 
 
在這一次會議中，除了向與會的相關領域的研究人員報告我們的論文研究之外，
透過問題的討論與交流，讓我們在進行後續研究時有許多的幫助。會中香港城市大學
Dr. Weijia Jia 分享 Ubiquitous Computing 的系統發展經驗並進行專題演講，題目
為”Ubiquitous Networking: How to make it work?”，該演講中討論 Ubiquitous Computing
系統發展方向，技術演進及 Dr. Weijia Jia 帶領團隊所實現之 AnyServer 系統展示。會
中亦遇見許多來自國內的學者，與東海大學林祝興教授、逢甲大學邱創乾教授及台北
科技大學黃文增教授進行問題討論與交流，此外亦聆聽了許多來自世界各地相關研究
主題的研究分享，對本人相關研究有相當大的幫助。最後，感謝國科會補助，可以參
加 MUE2008 這樣的國際學術會議，透過交換研究心得，獲益良多。 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-218-012 
計畫名稱 支援 MPEG-21 數位內容互通基礎架構之同儕運算網路平台研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
許子衡 
南台科技大學資訊工程系助理教授 
會議時間地點 April 24 - 26, 2008, Busan, Korea. 
會議名稱 The 2nd International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering (MUE2008) 
發表論文題目 A Transcoding Architecture for Adapting MPEG-21 Digital Items in Mobile Networks 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此次我報告的論文的領域是多媒體通訊，論文名稱為”A Transcoding Architecture for 
Adapting MPEG-21 Digital Items in Mobile Networks”，報告時間為二十六號早上。本人
於四月二十四號搭機前往韓國釜山並於隔天前往會場註冊並參與相關的會議，此次論文
的報告時間排在四月二十六號。會議結束後於四月二十七號搭機返台。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
MUE2008 (The 2nd International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering) 
是由韓國 Science & Engineering Research Support Center (SERSC)組織主辦的一個
Conference，會議中的主要議題涵蓋了包括 Ubiquitous Computing and Beyond, Multimedia 
Modeling and Processing, Ubiquitous Services and Applications, Multimedia Services and 
Applications, Multimedia and Ubiquitous Security 等多個與多媒體與普及運算有關的研究
領域。此次 Conference 在韓國釜山 Hanwha Resort Haeundae 舉辦三天，從四月二十四到
四月二十六 日，總共有 479 篇論文投稿, 只有 131 篇論文被接受, 接受率約為 27%。會
議以三個 sessions 同時進行。 
 
在這一次會議中，除了向與會的相關領域的研究人員報告我們的論文研究之外，透
過問題的討論與交流，讓我們在進行後續研究時有許多的幫助。會中香港城市大學 Dr. 
Weijia Jia 分享 Ubiquitous Computing 的系統發展經驗並進行專題演講，題目為”Ubiquitous 
Networking: How to make it work?”，該演講中討論 Ubiquitous Computing 系統發展方向，
技術演進及 Dr. Weijia Jia 帶領團隊所實現之 AnyServer 系統展示。會中亦遇見許多來自
國內的學者，與東海大學林祝興教授、逢甲大學邱創乾教授及台北科技大學黃文增教授
進行問題討論與交流，此外亦聆聽了許多來自世界各地相關研究主題的研究分享，對本
人相關研究有相當大的幫助。最後，感謝國科會補助，可以參加 MUE2008 這樣的國際
