 
In the following, we briefly report our activities involving analyses of 
the images, as well as maintenance of the Internet sites. The remaining 
of the paper is further divided into three parts. In Section II, we briefly 
describe the geological and climatological conditions of the Harbour. In 
Section III, a short description of analyzing procedures will be given. 
Some of our results will be presented in Section IV. And, finally, some 
remarks of our present study are given in Section V. 
 
THE TAIPEI HARBOUR 
 
Taiwan, as an island, is subjected to strong northeast monsoon wind in 
the winter, and weak sourthwesterlies in the summer. Located in the 
northwestern of the Pacific, however, Taiwan is under constant threat 
of typhoon invasions. According to the CWB, 2-3 typhoons per year, 
with possibly 1 or 2 landfalls, will affect the weather of Taiwan 
severely in summer seasons.  
 
Located in Bali Township of the Taipei County, which is at the 
northern Taiwan, the Taipei Harbour can, therefore, suffer from strong 
wave impacts both in the winter, as well as in the summer. The Harbour 
is designated to be the fourth free-trade zone in Taiwan, after Keelung, 
Kaohsiung and Taichung harbors. The second phase of construction, 
building a 3,810 meters outer breakwater was finished in 2002. The 
Harbour is now in the third and final phase of construction, which is 
expected to be completed in 2012. 
 
WAVE CLIMATE ANALYSES  
 
Starting from 2002, our Department was commissioned for extracting 
wave climate information from radar images. Some of our preliminary 
results were reported in the Conference. As mentioned earlier, the 
newly constructed breakwater now shelters the original site of the radar; 
a new observation system is now installed atop of the new building of 
the Harbour authority. As can be seen in Figure 2, a FURUNO Marine 
Radar, model 8051/8251, display unit (marked with tab 1), is connected 
to a radar signals converter (tab 2), and then with a personal computer 
(tab 3), as well as a colour monitor (tab 4). Figure 3 shows the data 
processing procedure of the radar wave measuring system 
schematically. 
 
Figure 2 Configuration of the radar monitoring system 
 
The measuring range of the radar is set to 1.5 nautical miles. With a 
rotation speed of 24 cycles per minute, 64 images, i.e., 160 seconds, per 
hour of the sea states will be imaged and stored for analysis. A wave 
observing pile is located outing outside the breakwater. The water 
depth is 16 meters. A current meter (S4ADW) from the InterOcean 
Company USA records wave and current conditions on site, and will be 
used as ground truth for the following analyses. 
 
The area used for the analysis is marked as a square and shown in 
Figure 4. It forms an X = Y = 1011.20 ×  1011.20 [m] square, 
approximately. With 128 ×  128 pixels on each side of the image, the 
spatial separation is ∆x = ∆y = 7.9 m. As mentioned before, the time 
interval between each image is ∆t = 2.5 sec, and a total of 160 sec. (64 
images) forms an image sequence. 
 
Figure 3. Schema for data processing of the radar wave measuring 
system 
 
 
Figure 4 Area used for the analysis of radar images 
 
Gray scales were first extracted from radar images and low-pass filtered 
to remove high frequency noises (Weng et al., 2004). A three 
dimensional (3D) FFT is performed with respect to the gray scales of 
each pixel: 
 
( )
1 1 1
( , , ) ( , , )
exp
n ×
2
m n
M N L
x y l m l m n l
x y l
m m n n l l
G k k k k g x y t
r k r k ri
M N L
= = =
ω = ∆ ×∆ ∆ω
⎡ ⎤∆ ∆ ∆ω⎛ ⎞× − π + −⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦
∑∑∑
 (1) 
 
where 
k r kx m m= ∆  ( = 1,2,3, …, M) is the wavenumber of the abscissa (2) rm
k r ky n n= ∆  ( = 1,2,3, …, N) is the wavenumber of the ordinate (3) rn
rl l l= ∆ω ω  ( = 1,2,3,…, L) is the frequency      (4) rl
2kx M x
= π∆ ∆  is the unit length of the abscissa    (5) 
2ky N y
= π∆ ∆  is the unit length of the ordinate    (6) 
2
I L t
= π∆ω ∆  is the unit time of the frequency axis  (7) 
 
A “wavenumber-frequency spectrum” of the gray scale intensity can 
then be obtained through:  
 
( ) ( )( )( ) ( )
21, , , ,x y l x y lI k k G k kM x N y L t
ω = ω∆ ∆ ∆   (8) 
Paper No. 2008-JZY-002                                        First author’s last (family) name           Yim                                                   Total number of pages 4 
directions (NNE & NE) (Figure 7). 
 
Figure 7A. Measured wave directions for the month February 2007 
 
Figure 7B. Estimated wave directions for the month February 2007 
 
On the other hand, estimated wave directions seem to depart 
systematically 22.5o from those measured for the month April (Figure 
8). It is suggested that weak wind conditions could be one of the causes, 
however, the true reason for this mismatch is not clear at present. 
 
Figure 8A. Measured wave directions for the month February 2007 
 
Figure 8B. Estimated wave directions for the month February 2007 
 
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 
 
To monitor the sea climate around Taiwan, radar observation stations 
were set up by the CWB. In this paper, we have presented some of our 
results in analyzing the radar image sequences.  
 
As can be seen from Figures 5 and 6, wave heights estimated from 
radar image sequences seem to have a slight tendency of overestimation. 
And as far as the wave direction is concerned, deviation from ground 
truth for light wind situations are also seen. The possible reason(s) for 
these is/are not quite clear at the moment. However, it is conjectured 
that these are probably due to one or several of the following reasons.  
a) It is well known that discrete spectral analyses often suffer from 
the problem of spectral leakage (Senet, 1996). Many researchers 
use a taper function to minimize this effect (See, for example, 
Nickerson & Clarke, 1988). This, however, was not carried out in 
our analyses.  
b) In determining the part that is through ocean waves from the radar 
intensity spectrum, researchers have tried to separate higher 
harmonics from the dispersion shell (Senet, 1996; Seemann, 1997; 
Outzen, 1998; Takase & Hirayama, 2000a, b). We have not 
attempted to do this at the present.  
c) In the determination of the dispersion shell, an iteration procedure 
was often used by researchers (Senet, 1996). Furthermore, 
considering the water depth where the S4ADW current meter is 
situated, it seems highly possible that wave heights are depth 
limited. However, water depths are assumed to be constant at 
present analyses. An iterative procedure, as was shown by Outzen 
(1998), was not done at the moment.  
d) It was mentioned earlier that, the empirical constant of the MTF, α, 
have should a value between 1 and 1.4 (Nieto Borge et al., 2006). 
During the present analyses, we have simply adopted the value α = 
1.2, as suggested by Nieto Borge et al. Also as mentioned earlier, it 
is not sure whether the value of α were instrumentation dependent.  
A systematic research is presently undertaken. It is hoped that these can 
be clarified in the near future. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
 
This project is partially supported by the project “Radar Remote 
Sensing of the Taipei Harbour” of the Ministry of Transportation, 
Executive Yuen, Rep. Of China, Project No. MOTC-IOT-96-H2EB002 
 
Paper No. 2008-JZY-002                                        First author’s last (family) name           Yim                                                   Total number of pages 4 
 1
參加“第十八屆『國際離岸及極地工程協會』會議＂報告 
 
尹彰 
 
海洋大學、河海工程學系 
壹、前言 
台灣是一個人口密度高居世界第二，而天然資源又並不豐富的海島。這些年來，
在這些先天條件的限制下，完全是靠著全體居民的努力，纔使得我們仍然能夠有傲
人的經濟成就。然而，隨著世界上人口的爆炸性成長，各個國家日漸工業化之後，
對陸地上資源的需求也愈來愈大。近些年來，隨著所謂的「金磚四國」的崛起，更
加速了人們對陸地各種資源有一天會匱乏的恐懼。因此，許多國家都已經開始採取
種種保護海洋資源的手段了。經濟海域的劃分就是一個最明顯的例子。另外，為了
與海爭地，人工漁礁、海埔新生地、海上機場的興建等等都似乎是不可避免的手段。
不過，世上畢竟沒有十全十美的事。雖然工業的發達增進了人類的福祉，上述的種
種工程也固然使某一個地方有限的土地增加，但是隨之而來的卻往往是其它地點土
地的流失。近些年來，養灘、護灘等等工程反而是海洋(岸)工程的一隻主流了。另
外，由於世界上的產油國家已經達到他們產能的極限，因此，許多國家都開始在環
境險惡的地方–譬如說，深海或是冰天雪地的極地–尋找新的能源。在另一方面，
因為較早期時，地球上人口本身並不是很多，因此廢棄物的數量也就不大；而且也
因為工業並不發達，這些廢棄物大多也只是(有機的)排瀉物，所以還可以藉著海洋
本身的分解有機物和殺菌的能力來消化這些直接，或經過河口間接，排放到海裡去
的廢棄物。但是，近些年來人們卻發現：海洋消化人類廢棄物的能力似乎漸漸地地
衰退了。簡略地說，目前與海洋(環境)相關的問題有：污、廢水排放所造成的污染；
(發電廠)冷卻水排放所造成的熱污染；化工廠、核能廠的廢料所造成的化學污染；
以及殘留、過剩的無(有)機化學肥料等等對海洋環境所造成的衝擊等。事實上學者
們發現，很多人類的廢棄物，譬如說重金屬、化學藥品、氯化碳氫化合物等等，在
海洋裡要比純有機廢棄物需要更久的時間纔能分解。而隨著潮汐、波浪、海流的變
化，這些廢棄物就可能從海岸附近擴散到深海裡去，進而影響到整個海洋的生態環
境。總而言之，和以前比起來，廿一世紀的海洋工程面臨的挑戰要來的更艱辛。 
以和海岸工程有關的國際性會議來說，雖然兩年一次的『國際海岸工程會議』
(International Conference on Coastal Engineering, 簡稱 ICCE)可以算是主流，然而這
個會議裡的主題終究是太過偏向於海岸工程的本身；另外，雖然偶爾也有一些有關
海洋環境的國際性會議舉行，可是這些會議又往往太過於偏向於化學(成份)的分析
和探討，換句話說，也就是太過偏向化學(工程)，這些學問對學流體力學的人來說，
就未免有點太過於偏僻生疏。怎樣纔能在兩者之間找到兩個幾乎完全不同學門的人
之間共同都有興趣的平衡點，是值得思考與努力的。在這個想法下，『國際離岸及極
地工程協會』(The International Society of Offshore and Polar Engineers, 簡稱 ISOPE)
嘗試藉著它每年舉辦國際會議的機會，建立「海岸(洋)與極地工程」和「環境保護」
兩個學門之間的溝通管道。雖然說，它的主要目的是：一方面想要藉著這個機會提
昇技術的水準、國際間(施工)技術的交流及合作、以及促進所有和離岸及極地工程
參加會議報告 
 3
technology) ； 地 質 工 程 (geotechnical engineering) ； 有 關 海 洋 繫 留 的 問 題
(risers/cables/mooring)；水下運送系統(underwater vehicle systems)；極地及冰地工程
(polar & ice engineering)；流體動力(hydrodynamics)；管柱結構(tubular structures)；
與材料工程有關的焊接、疲勞、腐蝕等(welding, fatigue, corrosion & materials)；風險
評估(mechanics, reliability & collision)；以及屬於海上及海底航行的造船工程(marine 
& underwater systems)等十個大題。 
另外，不知道是不是最近幾年世界各地的地震頻繁的關係，大會也另外開闢了
一個有關地震工程的專題討論。不過，也許是題目太多也太廣泛了，往往同一時間
就有七、八個議題同時舉行。正因為如此，往往讓人有來回奔波卻還是顧此失比的
感覺，是美中不足的。可能是筆者材識不足的關係，這幾個專題演講對筆者來說都
太艱深了一些，再加上太多的專有名詞把筆者弄得暈頭轉向，以致筆者都聽不太懂，
收穫不多。筆者的論文是在星期三(七月九日)的下午發表。 
參、感想與心得 
這次出國參加“第十八屆『國際離岸及極地工程協會』會議＂時間非常匆促。
雖然說大會議程總共是四天的時間，可是，前面也提到過了，因為議場太多、太分
散，讓人來回奔波，綜結起來總的收穫卻並不是很大的緣故。另外，從 1995年筆者
第一次參加 ISOPE協會在荷蘭海牙舉辦的第五屆會議開始，發覺國內學者參加這個
會議的人數逐年都在增加–如果筆者沒有算錯的話，今年也有多達廿幾篇的論文在
會議上發表。這是個令人感到非常高興的現象。雖然，和其它與台灣鄰近的國家–
譬如說日本、韓國、以及中國大陸–比起來，參加的人數還是少很多，可是和其它
國家參與的學者比起來已經算是多的了。國內有些學者批評 ISOPE所舉辦的會議(因
為議題太多)所以有些不夠嚴謹。不過，筆者以為，能夠參加一個國際性的會議總是
一項開始。如果說，能夠穩穩地站在目前的基礎上去慢慢地試探另一個更高的境界，
應該會比一開始就冀望於攀登頂峰要好得多纔對。基於這個緣故，筆者在十多年前
就認為，國內的相關機構如教育部、國科會等，都應該儘量多補助國內有興趣參與
國際會議的人出國參加纔是。另外，在參加國際會議的時候，筆者也發現外國的學
者常常是由博士班，甚至是碩士班，的學生來宣讀他們的博(碩)士論文。這一方面
可以訓練學生聽、說英文的能力，另一方面也可以讓學生不要侷限於自我的思考格
局裡。限於『一篇論文只能補助一人』的規定，如果國內的大專教師要和博士班的
學生一起去參加某個會議的時候，就必須要有兩篇文章同時被大會接受，而且也要
同時被國內的審查學者推薦纔行。這無異是抹殺了國內博士班學生出國練習的機
會。雖然說，目前國內的國科會和教育部，以及許多大學本身，都開始重視並鼓勵
博士生出國参加國際會議了。其實，是不是要把補助的對象限制在博士班的學生也
是一件可以討論的事情。如果有一個碩士班的學生願意下功夫，能夠做出一點結果
來，我們又為什麼要剝奪他(她)出國練習的機會呢？筆者常常想，國內各個單位為
什麼要在教育的投資上這麼斤斤計較呢？如果在十個，甚至一百個，學生裡，經由
出國開會或其它途徑的訓練，有一個將來能夠在國際的場合展現出所謂的『大將之
風』，那麼所有的花費不也就值回票價了嗎？ 
肆、攜回資料 
參加會議報告 
