 2
陷，或者使工件邊緣參疵不齊;為改善此
狀況，本計畫提出在DLP投影機前添增微
點陣列光罩(Pin Array Mask, PAM)，其為
對原投影每一像點處以遮罩的方式讓其僅
有中央部位的小點透光，由此單一圖形排
列而成的光罩圖形，因此藉由微點陣列光
罩將 1024×768 解析度的影像分割，使影
像分割形成離散的格點，使實際成像由
1pixel格點大小，縮小至九分之一pixel
格點的大小，藉此即能以極細小的硬化範
圍作微調式的硬化補償，進而達到工件的
邊緣平整及組織的密實。 
 
三、文獻探討 
由於本計畫是以動態光罩式快
速原型技術為基礎，以下將針對各式
動態光罩式快速原型系統一一作介
紹。  
將其各系統分析比較如表3.1，分別以
投影光源、投影方式及解析度做一比較，
表格中各系統的光源多以DLP為主，其次
則是LCD，投影方式則是上照式與下照式
各半，除特徵式光罩於快速原型系統解析
度部分多以1024×768為主，因此在各式的
快速原型當中，製作微小工件時，往往在
工件的精度與表輪廓的平滑度並未達到
理想細緻程度，而在特徵式光罩於快速原
型系統中，若以X-Y平台作微步進移動動
態光罩產生器，以微步進方式硬化大尺寸
樹脂，雖然可提升其精度，但由於是以微
步進方式作動於大尺寸工件上，其移動過
程則必須耗費較長的時間，且大尺寸工件
其成本也相對提升，因此在動態光罩式快
速原型系統上，本研究針對這點提出以微
光陣列進行相位曝光技術的開發，希望藉
由解析度的提升能改善工件精度與表輪
廓的平滑度，而達成既微小又精緻且製作
快速的工件產品。 
 
表 3.1 光罩式快速原型比較表 
 
 
四、研究方法與結果 
  本計畫為提升光罩影像的解析度，預
設將微點陣列光罩製作為更高的解析度的
網格，藉此由投影機光源影像投影成像至
預設的微點陣列光罩後，將影像細分為更
小的圖元，接著利用影像相位差規劃的方
式，由X-Y平台移動影像，使每個格點藉由
移動X方向或Y方向作影像畫素補償，利用
影像每圖元的多點補償達成以微光陣列進
行相位曝光的技術。 
所謂的導入影像相位差規劃，即是使得
DMD 投影出來的像，經過實體微點陣列光
系統名稱 光源
類型 
照射
方式 
解析度
DPS 系統(SRI 
International)[1] 
DLP 上照
式 
1024×
768 
下照式動態光罩系
統 
(台北科技大學陳
偉平)[2] 
DLP 下照
式 
1024×
768 
上照式光罩快速原
型系統(台灣科技
大學專利)[3] 
LCD 上照
式 
1024×
768 
DLP-based 
LCD-based 
快速原型系統(台
灣科技大學感測實
驗室)[4][5] 
DLP 
and 
LCD 
下照
式 
1024×
768 
微光罩式原型機
(瑞士聯邦工業
大學 )[6] 
LCD 上照
式 
1024×
768 
特徵式光罩於快
速原型系統(台灣
科技大學高志
宏)[7] 
DLP 下照
式 
以分割
的光罩
配合微
步進方
式組成
大尺寸
工件
 4
包含1.DLP投影機作為光源 2.低倍率放
大鏡片組 3.微點陣列光罩 4.遠心鏡頭 5.
反射鏡與X-Y平臺，由五部分所組合而成的
實驗整體機構組，為求整體機構達完整水
準而不受環境影響，導致光學路徑的偏移
不準確，整體實驗機構首先主要是建立在
光學平臺上，依序擺設DLP投影機，並調校
低倍率放大鏡片組使影像成像至最清晰
且符合本研究所需的40mm×30mm大小，接著
進行微點陣列光罩的擺置，擺置位置以
透鏡成像位置為基準，完成微點陣列光
罩擺設後，遠心鏡頭緊接在微點陣列光
罩之後，吸收透過微點陣列光罩之後的
影像光源，縮小成像至反射鏡，反射鏡反
射影像至X-Y平臺完成所有實驗架構，其示
意圖如圖5.1所示。 
 
圖5.1 實驗機構示意圖 
光罩量測與製作 
  雖然將投影機影像的調整完成，但其變
形度的情形依舊無法完整的改善，所以實
驗上仍然必須作變形的量測，而後根據變
形量測結果，製作相對應的微點陣列光罩， 
另外在觀察格點差異部份，本研究使用顯
微攝影作觀察，將鏡頭挾持於可左右移動
式的光學微平台，並再將其固定在可上下
移動式的光學微平台，因此將顯微攝影的
鏡頭設置於與微點陣列光罩座標同水平面
的高度，藉此可利用微平台作左右上下的
移動，觀察投影影像每個格點與相對應於
微點陣列光罩上的格點的差異，接著利用
本校自動化科技所的U黃建量U同學自行研發
的校正程式進行圖形變形。該程式可以針
對圖形座標變形偏移量，使所需變形的圖
片作擬合式的影像變形，而本實驗即須利
用程式使9126×6912的標準黑白方格圖
形，參考實驗量測偏移量所得座標，重新
變形成與投影機影像變形相同的圖形如圖
5.2，即為最後實驗量測與變形過後的圖
形。 
   由擷取部份變形圖中放大觀察變形情
況如圖 5.3 所示，左邊為正常方格圖而右
邊為過度變形的方格圖，其中可發現部份
方格其變形情形已超過原有 3×3 的方格，
導致整體變形圖形微點陣列光罩將會有些
許漏光情形，而針對此種情形，其改善方
法可藉由增加方格圖的解析度，由
9126×6912 的解析度提升至 8192×6144 解
析度使方格更細小，而使其變形情形能夠
藉由更小的方格作細分，因此過度變形的
情形即能改善 
 
圖 5.2 變形後光罩圖 
 
圖 5.3 正常與過度變形圖 
實驗預設圖形製作 
  微光陣列進行相位曝光需由影像
相位差規劃的方式，將圖像每個
pixel作分割，依照自行所規劃的數
目作相對應的劃分，因此圖形的製作
 6
 
 
由圖中可知，經由投影機將鏡片
摘除，且影像大小為160mm×120mm，
而由於變形光罩也是160mm×120mm，
使變形格點也有所改善，因此整體光
點大小相差不大，使影像圖形與邊緣
銳利度有顯著的改善，並且藉由
160mm×120mm的微點陣列光罩分割影
像，使得影像的色散現象藉由更大的
微點陣列光罩對位遮蔽，而獲得影像
格點清晰，且可清楚分辨影像中的格
點數與實際圖片pixel數是符合的，
並由重疊圖可看出整圖影像輪廓邊
緣與實際圖形輪廓是一致的，接著將
九張CCD攝影圖片依其相對座標位置
作重組疊合，整體實際疊加圖如圖
5.7，從疊合圖中可看出其輪廓邊緣
及圖形格點數皆與實際所擷取的圖
形吻合，因此證明影像相位差規劃方
法是可行的。 
 
 
圖5.7 160mm×120mm光罩實際影像疊加圖 
 
六、結論 
  本研究是以動態光罩為基礎，針對
動態光罩系統的影像輸出作解析度
的提升，而利用微點陣列光罩解析度
的改變，過濾光源影像，將影像pixel
作分割，使得單一pixel再縮小，而
利用更小的pixel組成圖形，使圖形
更加精細，邊緣更加平滑，而本論文
將實驗研究分為兩部分，首先為投影
機影像變形量的量測及影像校正，第
二部份則是影像相位差規劃的驗證
方式證明其解析度的提升，根據兩部
 8
 
 
 
 
 
2. COLOR IMAGE DISPLAY OF LCD WITHOUT COLOR FILTER 
In general, persistence of vision or time of postpone is after the objects stimulate eyes, the image can be stored for a 
while at the retina of eyes. The image can be held up from 0.1 seconds to 0.4 seconds in the retina.  
For TFT-LCD, Color filter is the key component which loses the biggest light energy, as least 66%. Theoretically, by 
applying the Field Sequential Liquid Crystal Display (FS-LCD) which also be called Color Sequential LCD (CS-LCD) 
technology, it could not only break through the bottle neck of energy use in conventional TFT-LCD by improving the 
light-electricity efficiency about 40%, but also bring the improvement of the systematic color gamut, raise the color 
saturation, and reduce the material and assembly cost. For widely color zone, high resolution, and low power 
consumption, the new penal display can be regarded as quite competitive technology. The differences of color forming 
between conventional Spatial Color filter Liquid Crystal Display  (SCF-LCD) and FS-LCD are shown in figure 2. The 
color cell in SCF-LCD combines three difference RGB cells as shown in figure 2 (a) [3]. The FS-LCD takes off the color 
filter in the liquid mold component, so each pixel does not need to cut apart the sub-pixels again as shown in figure 2 (b). 
And the color performance depends on three primary colors (red, green, and blue) LED light source in accordance with 
time sequence switching over. The human vision system integrated these three RGB 1/3 frames for forming, examining 
and knowing the color on the frame.  
 
Fig. 2. Color forming of SCF-LCD and FS-LCD  
 
Because LED can demonstrate the high color saturation and expand the color gamut effectively, the FS-LCD has higher 
color saturation than the conventional SCF-LCD. The major advantage of the FS-LCD is the energy used can be much 
more reduced. The FS-LCD does not use pharmaceutical to filter the light, which is the most drawback of the 
conventional SCF-LCD. FS-LCD can make almost all the light from the LCD to the display to bring a very bright screen. 
On the other hand, for the same brightness between SCF-LCD and FS-LCD, the FS-LCD can use less optical energy. As 
the result, FS-LCD brings the advantage of low energy consumption and high cost competition. 
In conventional SCF-LCD, the color of the backlight is white. The desired color is mixed in spatial domain from sub 
cells by the RGB color filter. The color filter limited a narrow band wavelength of light passing through. On the other 
hand, the energy of other wavelength of light is lost. Most LCD displays in the market give the fixed refresh frequency at 
60Hz. It is enough to exceed the esthesia of human vision. Different from the SCF-LCD, the backlight of FS-LCD bring 
different color in time sequential. RGB LEDs are the light source instead of CCFL. The frame has to utilize these 
primaries colors (R, G, B) to mixed them into the desired color. Human eyes will superpose the all images because of the 
effect of time postpone. When the postpone time is short enough, it makes human see the full-color picture. Thus, the 
backlight unit can use the light source of different colors to do the independent luminosity, adjust to various colors, to 
receive the well mixing image. Field Sequential uses RGB three monochromatic LED light sources to mix color. There 
are several apparent advantages than SCF method. [3] 
z High resolution, do not need separate a whole pixel to RGB sub-pixels; 
z To reach the colored balance of the optimization. R, G, B three colors LED light source can be adjusted for 
luminosity independently; 
z Needn’t use the color filter, it makes the cell structure simple and saving cost. 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.4 Color breakup causes the display deviation [6] 
 
Color breakup reduces the vision quality, and there are papers pointed out that after watching the FS-LCD for a long 
time may cause the dizzy feeling. In any case, color breakup effect in FS-LCD technology has to be improved. The most 
reasonable method to avoid the color breakup is to increase response speed of the display. The digital micro-mirror 
device of DLP projector from TI can be an example. Its color wheel’s rotational speed already reaches six times video-
information frequency (360Hz). If at a far enough distance, it’s hard to perceive the color breakup. However, as to 
existing liquid crystal material and display model, it is still unable to possess so fast response speed. This is the reason 
that FS-LCD is unable to implement in LCD products all the time. [7] 
 
The method proposed in this research, regard RGB LED as the backlight source and demonstrate the continuity of the 
image by field sequential. When using the conventional TFT LCD without color filter to FS-LCD, the image signal 
launches to scan from the upper left corner as first position, as shown as figure 5. After finished a line, it turns to another 
line until scan all columns of the LCD, and the whole movement causes a color frame. Such as the way, the time of 
addressing is about the computer screen update time  of the screen (1/60ms). Even with the optimized LCD whose Tr 
and Tf will be 0 sec, and the flash time of the backlight is almost 0 sec, the frame rate will still at 20 frame/sec. It is still 
very much beyond the esthesia of human vision, besides the color breakup effect.  
 
Fig.5. Frame at a Time 
 
Instead of the backlight flash to a whole frame at a time, this research is dividing the panel of the whole LCD into several 
banks. The original single is to address RGB at the same time and cell by cell to the full screen. The modified sequence 
will address red signal first and followed by green and blue. The leg of the next signal is in a period of time which is 
determined by the number of segments of the screen. When the first red signal is passing two of the banks, the next green 
signal comes to the first bank, and same to the blue signal. At the same time, the backlight of the first bank will flash red 
color to bring the red image on the first portion of the screen. Once the first red signal is passing the third bank, the 
backlight of the second bank will flash red color to bring the red image on the second portion of the screen. At the same 
time, the green signal is passing the first bank. The data keep addressing from top to bottom. The full frame will flash the 
first bank in red, the second bank in red, the third bank in red and the first bank in green, the fourth bank in red and 
second bank in green, the fifth bank in red and third bank in green and first bank in blue. In every 1/60 sec, the screen 
will be fully scanned by red, green, and blue signal and each bank will flash red, green, and blue light once. As shown in 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 Edge lighting (a) and Bottom lighting (b) Backlight unit [9] 
 
Table 1 shows the comparison of edge lighting and bottom lighting BLU. This research is focusing on the new FS-LCD 
concept rather than design an optimized BLU. The thickness of the BLU is not an issue but the segmentation of the light 
to many banks. According to the comparative result of the table 1, the bottom lighting BLU can apply to a large size, 
high luminance, good vision angle, high brightness utilization efficiency, and simple structure. A simple bank segments 
bottom lighting BLU will be build up as the experiment BLU. 
 
Table 1. The comparison of Edge lighting and Bottom lighting Backlight unit 
 Edge lighting BLU Bottom lighting BLU 
Range of 
application 
Slim medium and small size Large size 
Advantage The thickness is relatively thin High luminance, good vision angle, 
high brightness utilization 
efficiency, and simple structure 
Disadvantage Low brightness utilization efficiency
and low light uniformity 
High necessary electricity and low 
dispelling heat efficiency 
 
The position of RGB LEDs under the BLU will affect the uniformity of backlight. In order to make the light source 
uniform, the RGB LEDs have been arranged as Mosaic configuration as shown in figure 9. The resulting mixed white 
light is shown in figure 10. [10] 
 
 
Fig.9 Mosaic Theory [10] 
 
 
 
 
 
This research uses Japan's OLYMPUS BX51 microscope to examine RGB LED wavelength. After receiving the 
wavelength numeric, turn them to three spectrum values X, Y, Z and to draw the chart of CIE color coordination. When 
these three coordinates are connected, it is the triangle zone representing the ability to show colors. As shown in figure 
13, the adjusted backlight can reach a point very near to a theoretically white light.  
 
 
 
Fig. 13 Chart of CIE color coordination 
 
4. FIELD SEQUENTIAL CONTROL 
The image frame has been divided into 4 banks in this experiment. According to the bank at a time mentioned above, a 
white image frame has to separate into RGB frames and each frame has to divide into 4 banks. The addressing and flash 
cycle is shown in Fig 14. There are 4 initial steps before starting cycles: (a) it is the initial blank screen; (b) the red signal 
is addressing on the first bank; (c) the red signal is addressing on the second bank and the red backlight of the first bank 
flashing; (d) the red signal is addressing on the third bank, the red backlight of the second bank flashing, and the green 
signal is addressing on the first bank. The cycle starts from step (e) to (j) and repeat, which is six steps: (e) the red signal 
is addressing on the fourth bank, the red backlight of the third bank flashing, the green signal is addressing on the second 
bank, and the green backlight of the first bank flashing; (f) the red backlight of the fourth bank flashing, the green signal 
is addressing on the third bank, the green backlight of the second bank flashing, and the blue signal is addressing on the 
first bank; (g) the green signal is addressing on the fourth bank, the green backlight of the third bank flashing, the blue 
signal is addressing on the second bank, and the blue backlight of the first bank flashing; (h) the green backlight of the 
fourth bank flashing, the blue signal is addressing on the third bank, the blue backlight of the second bank flashing, and 
the red signal is addressing on the first bank; (i) the blue signal is addressing on the fourth bank, the blue backlight of the 
third bank flashing, the red signal is addressing on the second bank, and the red backlight of the first bank flashing;.(j) 
the blue backlight of the fourth bank flashing, the red signal is addressing on the third bank, the red backlight of the 
second bank flashing, and the green signal is addressing on the first bank. 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.16 the comparison with original picture to simulated picture, (a) is the simulated and retaken picture; (b) is the 
original picture. 
 
In this experimental, an aluminum foil light box BLU has been build as shown in figure 17. The light source for each 
bank can be controlled. The special build BLU can produce light uniformly. A conventional TFT LCD has been placed 
on the top of the backlight unit. By providing the necessary data to the LCD and switching the light of different bank 
according to the continue cycle, a color picture can be displayed. A camera has been used to shoot the bank at a time 
picture and the resulting image is shown in figure 18. Because it was a dislocation between BLU and LCD, the image 
can not be exposed completely between banks. There were some obvious black lines appeared at the picture.  
 
 
Fig. 17 aluminum foil light box 
 
