 2
報告內容 
中文摘要 
    由於顯示科技的進步，有越來越的廣色域顯示器面市，相應的廣色域訊號規格(例如
2006 年制訂的 xvYCC)也應運而生。本研究針對廣色域顯示器所面臨的色域擴張以及一般
顯示器面對廣色域影像訊號所面臨的色域壓縮問題，提供解決方案。前者利用顯示器色域
在 xvYCC 空間中的線性特性，設計了簡單的色域擴張演算法，後者設計了結合非線性彩度
壓縮、明度軸分段多點投影壓縮、以及空間濾波銳化處理的色域壓縮演算法。經人因視覺
實驗發現在色域壓縮對映之前，先作微量銳化處理可保住影像的細節層次。此外，本研究
調查了人們對於膚色、綠草以及天空的喜好色範圍。並成功開發以膚色為主的喜好色色彩
校正模式，由於運算成本不高，具有相當的實用價值。 
關鍵詞：廣色域顯示器，色域對映，喜好色複製 
 
英文摘要 
    Resent years, wide color gamut has become a key feature for high-end displays. An 
international wide gamut video standard, xvYCC, also has been released. How to transform 
wide-gamut signal to conventional sRGB-based display and how to used sRGB signal on 
wide-gamut display are two important problems to be solved. Beside, preferred color 
reproduction has been recognized as an important way to improve image quality of a display. The 
study therefore includes four parts: (1) Unlike most gamut mapping algorithms (GMAs) working 
in CIELAB space, an xvYCC-based gamut expansion algorithm for sRGB to wide gamut color 
mapping is proposed. It features low computation cost and smooth color distribution. (2) A spatial 
gamut mapping algorithm is proposed to compress color gamut with minimum detail loss for 
sRGB display using wide-gamut signals. (3) An investigation of preferred color ranges of skin, 
green grass and blue sky have be done. (4) A color correction based on localized preferred color 
transform is proposed. It is useful since its computation cost is not very high and its color 
distribution is smooth. 
Keywords: wide color gamut, gamut mapping, preferred color reproduction 
 
sRGB與xvYCC之間只需要簡單地3x3矩陣轉換， sRGB與AdobeRGB的色域在xvYCC空間
中是形狀規則的矩形(見圖1)，因此不論在計算色域輪廓以及色空間轉換，成本都比在LAB
空間低廉。 
 
xvYCC其實可視為簡化的LAB空間，由於結構簡單，可以透過xvYCC達到視訊所需要的即
時色彩轉換。xvYCC由(Y,Cb,Cr)三個軸所構成，數值範圍是[0 255]，如果將Cb與Cr分別減
掉128(見公式(1))，就可已獲得類似LAB的三個座標軸，但是a*與b*分別代表「紅/綠」與「黃
/藍」軸，Cb’與Cr’則分別代表「藍/黃」與「紅/綠」軸。公式(2)可算出(Y,Cb’,Cr’)空間中的
色相角hxv。它的色相環與LAB空間的色相角hab是不同的，hab 的0到360度顏色順序是
RYGCBM，hxv 的0到360度顏色順序是BMRYGC。我們也可根據公式(3)算出彩度Cxv。由
通常稱為Luma的非線性亮度值Y，與Cxv和hxv構成的類似CIE LCh的極作標系統，在本研究
稱為xvYCh。接下來的色域對映將在這個(Y, Cxv, hxv)空間中進行。 
 
  128 ;128 88 −=−= bitbit CrCrCbCb               (1) 
 4
)( CbCrhxv /tan 1−=                 (2) 
22 CrCbCxv +=                  (3) 
 
圖2由左至右分別顯現了sRGB以及AdobeRGB與Sony Bravia KDL-32V2000 廣色域TV的色
域範圍、在色域尖端(cusp)在各hxv色相上的Cb,Cr與Cxy位置。由Cxv與hxv的色域尖端曲線
圖可知，在hxv在220~260左右，sRGB與兩種廣色域規格的彩度走向相反。 
 
 
圖2：sRGB, Adobe RGB與Sony TV三者的xy色域差異， 
以及各色相色域尖端點的Cb,Cr, Cxv值。 
(3) 色域擴張對映 
由於上述三種色域在 hxv 與 Cxv 圖上接近三角形，因此本研究以色相輸入色彩的 hxv 色相
上，sRGB 的尖端色度值(Ps-cusp)與廣色域輪廓的尖端色度值(Pd-cusp)作為色域對映的依據。圖
3 是色域擴張示意圖。公式(4)~(7)是本研究所提出之色域擴張演算法，其中輸入色與輸出色
的色度值以(Ys,Cbs,Crs)與(Yd,Cbd,Crd)標示，sRGB 與廣色域的三角形尖端色度值分別以
(Ys-cusp,Cbs-cusp,Crs-cusp)與(Yd-cusp,Cbd-cusp,Crd-cusp)標示，最終輸出值為(Yd’,Cbd’,Crd’)。公式中的
p 值範圍在 0~1 之間，數值越小，整體彩度越大。q 值則控制了低彩度區域的變化，如果
q=0 時相當於直接以公式(5)的結果輸出，q 越大，則低彩度色彩會接近原輸入色度值。 
p
cusps
s
Cxv
Cxvs ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=
−
 或 
p
cusps
s
cusps
s
Cr
Cr
Cb
Cb
s ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=
−−
,max                                (4) 
sRGB 顯示器上的影像盡可能近似於廣色域顯示器的影像。過去已有不少由大色域複製影像
至小色域的色域對映研究(Morovic and Luo, 2001)，S 形的階調曲線被認為較能保留影像的
色彩。由於超出色域的影像紋理容易在色域壓縮之後失去，因此近年興起了空間濾波色域
對映技術，目的在於透過高通濾波的輪廓增強，補償色域壓縮所造成的紋理損失。然而，
在空間濾波應該用在色域對映的哪一個階段，並無定論。因此本研究比較三種空間濾波流
程的效果。 
(2) 空間濾波色域壓縮對映 
本研究在 CIELAB 空間進行色域對映。在色域對映演算法方面，本研究採用兩階段處理，
第一階段根據公式(8)作彩度壓縮，其參數(t,α,β,γ)=( 1.8, 2.0, 3.5, 0.8)，使彩度壓縮曲線呈現
S 形。公式(8)中，Cs與 Cd 分別代表處理前後的彩度，Cs_max 與 Cd_max 則分別是輸入色彩在
廣色域及 sRGB 上同色相明度上的最大彩度值。第二階段採用明度軸分段多點投影壓縮技
術(Chen and Kotera, 2002)，使色域對映之後的明度不至於有明顯的改變。本研究所使用的
空間濾波器是反銳化遮罩(Usharp Masking)，簡稱 USM(Gonzalez and Woods, 2008)。由於肉
眼對色彩的解像力遠比灰階差，因此 USM 僅在明度色頻上處理。公式(9)中 L 與 L’分別代
表濾波前後的明度影像，i 代表畫素的位置，j 代表 i 的相對位置，S 代表 NxN 濾波器處理
的範圍，κ代表影像銳化的程度。本研究使用的參數為(N, κ)=(3, 0.4)。 
[ ])/(max_ γβα +⋅= ssCtC dd    其中                                                         (8) max_/ ss CCs =
⎟⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −+= ∑j
S
jiii LLLL κ'                            (9) 
 
(3) 視覺評估 
本研究比較三種 USM 空間濾波流程，分別是在色域對映之前與之後的 Forward-USM 與
Backward-USM 以及色域對映前後都作 USM 處理的 Double-USM。處理流程如圖 7 所示，
其中 NI-mapping 代表前述的 S 形曲線非線性色域對映處理。 
 
圖7：三種USM空間濾波處理流程。  
 6
 圖10：測試影像。                   圖11：色彩調整使用者介面。 
 
 
圖11：G圖(左)與R圖(右)色相偏移調整實驗之結果。紅色橢圓為95% MacAdam信賴橢圓。 
 
圖12：G圖(左)與R圖(右)明度偏移調整實驗之結果。紅色橢圓為95% MacAdam信賴橢圓。 
 
圖 11 的例子是 RGBCMY 共 6 種方向之色度偏移，經觀測者調整獲得的膚色偏好範圍，圖
12 則是明度偏移的偏好調整結果。受測者對於 B、G、W 組別所調整出來的影像平均明度
都比標準影像來的高，在 R 這一組則變動不大，觀察 R 組的參照用標準影像，發現原本的
平均明度就高達 80 以上(R 組額頭部分的平均明度為 80.4、臉頰部分的平均明度為 84.4)，
因此 R 組的平均明度不會上升是相當合理的，其他 3 組的平均明度經過受測者調整過後在
分佈在 50 到 80 之間，這個亮度區間可以視為一般人對於膚色亮度喜好的範圍。在彩度調
整方面，彩度幾乎都是些微降低的，實驗結果顯示 C* 15 到 25 的區間是大家膚色喜好的範
圍。在色相方面，西方女性 B 組、G 組的結果都是偏紅的(h 下降)，東方女性 W 組、R 組
的結果都是偏黃的(h 上升)，但是喜好的色相範圍相對廣泛，與東方人或西方人沒有太直接
 8
    
圖 15：草綠色之喜好色評估之原始影像。 
 
圖 16：天空喜好色評估之平均統計結果。 
 
五、以膚色為主的喜好色色彩校正模式 
如果想對膚色作喜好色校正，但又不想影響其它顏色，可用公式(10)至(13)獲得不錯的效
果。由於錯誤的膚色無法用色彩區域分割方式獲得其 RGB 平均值，因此本研究所提出的模
式，先將影像轉至 YCbCr 空間，用 Viola and Jones(2001)基於灰階影像 Y 的人臉偵測模式
找出影像中的人臉區域，再統計區域中央 64%面積的 RGB 平均值(Rs,Gs,Bs)與 YCbCr 平均
值(Ys,Cbs,Crs)。公式(10)至(13)中，(Rt,Gt,Bt)代表理想的膚色 RGB 平均值，w 是膚色近似度，
範圍在[0 1]之間，(R”,G”,B”)是膚色局部校正後的影像。由於是膚色近似度作為色彩調整幅
度的依據，因此在膚色與非膚色之間的轉移是非常平滑的。在公式(11)中對亮度乘 0.2 是為
了放寬對陰影所照成的明暗變化的色差容許度。圖 17 是膚色局部校正的實例。只要能夠正
確偵測到人臉的位置，就能夠獲得不錯的膚色調整效果。如果影像理想膚色值(Rt,Gt,Bt)與
(Rs,Gs,Bs)的差距太大，需要微調(Rt,Gt,Bt)，縮小差距，如此才能獲得「自然」的膚色調整
效果。 
( ) RRRR st ⋅= /' ;  ( ) GGGG st ⋅= /' ;  ( ) BBBB st ⋅= /'                                                             (10) 
sss CrCrCbCbYYD −+−+−⋅= 2.0                                                                     (11) 
20/)7(1 −−= Dw   W 的範圍在[0 1]之間，超過範圍需 clipping                  (12) 
( ) RwRwR ⋅−+⋅= 1'" ;  ( ) GwGwG ⋅−+⋅= 1'" ;  ( ) BwBwB ⋅−+⋅= 1'"             (13) 
 10
 12
8. Sun P. L. (Jan. 2009) High Dynamic Range LCD Using Extended Stencil-FSC Method, Proceedings of SPIE, 
(EI cited), USA, Vol. 7241, 72410S, ISBN-978-0-8194-7491-9. 
9. Sun P. L. and Lu S. Y. (Dec. 2008) Optimal xvYCC to RGBW Conversion for Field Sequential Color LCD, 
IEEE Proceedings of International Conf. on Computer Science and Software Engineering (EI cited), Vol. 6, 
278-281, ISBN-978-0-7695-3336-0. 
10. Sun P. L., Chen H. S. and Chang C. K. (Dec. 2008) Six-primary LCD Color Separation for Wide-gamut xvYCC 
Images, The 15th International Display Workshops (EI cited), 1425-1428. 
 
參考文獻 
1. H. S. Chen and H. Kotera, Three-dimensional Gamut Mapping Method Based on the Concept of Image 
Dependence, Journal of Image and Technology, vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 44-52, 2002. 
2. P. G. Engeldrum, Psychometric Scaling: A Toolkit for Imaging System Development, Imcotek Press Inc., 
2000. 
3. R. C. Gonzalez and R. E. Woods, Digital Image Processing, 3 ed., Prentice Hall, pp.162-165, 2008. 
4. IEC. 61966-2-4: Part 2-4: Color management: Extended YCC color space for video applications – xvYCC, 
2006. 
5. IEC 61966-2-1; Colour measurement and management in multimedia systems and equipment–Part 2-1: 
Default RGB colour space-sRGB, 1998. 
6. D. L. MacAdam, Specification of Small Chromaticity Differences”, J. Opt. Soc. Am., Vol. 33, No. 18 
1943. 
7. T. Morioka, Y. Azuma, and M. Inui, A Psychophysical Evaluation of a Gamut Expansion Algorithm Based 
on Chroma Mapping, Proc. IS&T's NIP21 Conf., pp. 433-436, 2005. 
8. P. Viola and M. Jones, Rapid Object Detection using a Boosted Cascade of Simple Features, Proc. IEEE 
Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, p.511, 2001. 
9. J. Morovic and M. R. Luo, “The Fundamentals of Gamut Mapping: A Survey”, Journal of Imaging 
Science and Technology, 45(3): 283-290, 2001. 
 
 High Efficient Gamut Mapping in xvYCC Space for Wide Gamut 
Displays 
 
P.-L. Sun 
 
National Taiwan Univ. of Sci. & Tech., #43, Keelung Rd. Sec. 4, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
Published at the 16th International Display Workshops (IDW09) 
 
ABSTRACT 
Unlike most gamut mapping algorithms (GMAs) 
working in CIELAB space, an xvYCC-based GMA 
for sRGB to wide gamut color mapping is proposed. 
It features low computation cost and smooth color 
distribution. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
IEC 61966-2.1 sRGB has become the most 
important color standard for multimedia applications 
since 1999 [1]. However, more and more 
manufacturers release wide gamut displays having 
color gamut greater than that of the sRGB standard. 
A gamut expansion algorithm therefore is needed 
for mapping source sRGB signals to various wide 
gamut RGB signals. Gamut mapping algorithms 
(GMAs) have been studied for many years [2]. Most 
of them deal with color mapping in CIELAB space. 
Gamut surfaces of a RGB display are not flat in the 
CIELAB space (see Fig. 1) and it thus increases the 
complexity of gamut boundary description and 
mapping geometry [2][3]. On the other hand, IEC 
recommended an extended-gamut YCC color space 
– xvYCC, for wide gamut video applications in 2006 
[4]. The xvYCC space is large and nearly linear to 
various wide gamut RGB signals. To save the 
computation cost and improve the smoothness of 
resulted color distribution, an xvYCC-based simple 
gamut mapping algorithm (GMA) is proposed. 
Unlike normal GMA working in CIELAB space, the 
proposed GMA makes good use of the linear 
propriety of xvYCC space to simplify the complexity 
of mapping geometry. 
 
2. GAMUT BOUNDARY IN xvYCC SPACE 
2.1 Hue shift 
In ICC color management system [5], four 
rendering intents - perceptual, saturation, 
ICC-relative colorimetric and ICC-absolute 
colorimetric, were established. Perceptual intent is 
the most important one as it is used for reproducing 
photography. This is the main focus of the paper. 
 
Fig. 1 Sub-gamuts in LAB space 
sRGB gamut in CIELAB (left) and xvYCC (right) 
spaces. The gamut boundaries are not flat in the 
CIELAB space. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Color gamut in xvYCC space 
sRGB gamut in CIELAB (left) and xvYCC (right) 
spaces in the xvYCC space. 
 
Fig. 2 shows a comparison of sRGB and Adobe 
1998 RGB color gamuts in the xvYCC space. As 
can be seen, TRC-Matrix based [5] RGB color 
space have flat surfaces in the xvYCC space. The 
gamut boundary therefore can be roughly 
determined by the xvYCC values of black and white 
points and RYGCBM (i.e., Red / Yellow / Green / 
Cyan / Blue / Magenta) six primaries. Transferring 
image data from standard ITU-R. BT.709-2 RGB to 
8bit xvYCC values only needs to apply a 3x3 matrix 
and then shifts the offset. The Y/Cb/Cr axis is 
opponent color space similar to the LAB CIE 
uniform color space. However, the gray axis is not 
(Cr8bit,Cb8bit)=(0,0) in 8-bit format. To simulate the 
LAB and polar-based LCH color space, Equation 1 
to 3 are used where hxv and Cxv represent hue and 
chroma in the xvYCC space.  
 
  128 ;128 88 −=−= bitbit CrCrCbCb      (1) 
( )CbCrhxv /tan 1−=         (2) 
 sRGB and wide gamut display has triangle shape 
gamut boundaries in (Yxv, Cxv) plane at any xv hue 
angles (see Fig. 8). Ps-cusp and Pd-cusp are the gamut 
cusp of the given hxv hue angle of the source and 
destination gamut boundaries respectively. They 
can be obtained by linear interpolating xvYCC color 
coordinates of RYGCBM six primaries or using 
1D-lookup tables of Fig.5 and Fig.6 directly. Then a 
simple triangular mapping with minor tuning can 
bring the source color Ps to appropriate destination 
Pd inside the wide display gamut.  
Equation 4 to 8 indicate the main calculations. 
First, a relative chroma ratio “s” is calculated by 
Equation 4 or 5 (The latter skip Cxv calculation to 
save the cost). “p” is chroma factor. When p is equal 
to 1, linear chroma mapping will be made. If the p 
value is less than 1, the overall chroma will be 
enhanced. “dYcusp” in Equation 8 can be 
predetermined as a 1D lookup tables referred to 
Fig.5-right. The color shift of 1000 uniformly 
distributed colors from Ps to Pd is shown in Table 1. 
The color differences were calculated by 
CIEDE2000. As can be seen, “No correction” would 
have higher hue variations (standard deviation of 
dH00). Reducing p value from 1 to 0.7 would 
heighten the colorfulness but increase the hue 
variations. For ICC perceptual intent, the p factor 
can be ignored (i.g., p=1). 
 
 
Fig. 8 Triangle cusp mapping 
“dYcusp” is the Y difference from Pd-cusp to Ps-cusp. 
 
2/
2
2
p
cusps
s
Cxv
Cxvs ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=
−
        (4) 
p
cusps
s
cusps
s
Cr
Cr
Cb
Cb
s ⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=
−−
,max       (5) 
cuspdd CbsCb −⋅=         (6) 
cuspdd CrsCr −⋅=          (7) 
s
        (8) 
cuspd YdYsY +⋅=
 
 
3.2 Non-linear chroma mapping 
Expanding chroma linearly would make skin color 
and near gray objects too colorful. Any Ps with low 
chroma ratio should preserve its original chroma as 
possible. Equation 9 to 12 give a weight between 
the Ps and Pd based on the relative chroma ratio s. 
An addition q factor in Equation 9 is used for 
controlling the magnitude low chroma preservation. 
The default value of q is 1. When q is equal to 0, 
linear chroma mapping introduced in the last section 
will be done. Table 1 illustrates the effect of the q 
value. When q equals 1, mean chroma will reduce 
and the hue variations will decrease. 
 
Table 1 GMA color shift 
Target 
space GMA 
Std. 
dH00 
Mean 
dC00 
Mean
dE00
No 2.88 2.59 4.79 
p=1.0,q=0 2.19 1.68 2.80 
p=0.7,q=0 2.98 3.71 5.19 
Adobe 
RGB 
p=1.0,q=1 1.68 0.98 1.78 
No 5.10 1.56 5.95 
p=1.0,q=0 2.37 1.04 3.62 
p=0.7,q=0 3.07 2.31 4.97 
Sony 
Bravia 
p=1.0,q=1 1.83 1.07 2.25 
 
 
3.3 Smoothness of adjacent hues 
As the wide gamut primaries have different hues 
to the sRGB standard, it is easy to provoke 
discontinuous chroma boost in certain hue angles 
(referring to Fig.7). The s ratio around the bad hue 
angles therefore is reduced slightly to smooth the 
resulted color distributions. The destination xvYCC 
value finally converts to its wide-gamut display 
signal via XYZ space for high accuracy or via simple 
3x3 color correction matrix for saving computation 
cost (low accuracy). 
 
 
Fig. 9 Visual experiment 
The GUI and viewing environment of the 
psychophysical experiment. 
 
4. VISUAL EXPERIMENT 
4.1 Setup 
A paired-comparison visual experiment was 
conducted using EIZO CG221 LCD with Adobe 
RGB gamut to evaluate the performance of the 
proposed GMA together with a LAB-based 
non-linear gamut expansion GMA detailed in [7]. 
sRGB and Adobe RGB are regarded as the source 
 The Design of Spatial Gamut Mapping Algorithms Applying on Display Color 
Correction 
 
Hung-Shing Chen1, Pei-Li Sun2 
1Graduate Institute of Electro-Optical Engineering, NTUST, Taipei, Taiwan 
2Department of Information Management, Shin-Hsin Univ, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 The problem of color-mismatching we usually find 
out in cross-media imaging devices has been widely 
discussed today. The same images shown on two 
different display devices look unlike mainly due to 
their native color gamuts. In this study, the spatial 
gamut mapping algorithm is proposed by 
introducing 3 essential components of s-curve tone 
mapping, multiple mapping paths and Unsharp 
Mask operation. The psychophysical experiment 
result shows that sRGB display satisfactorily 
simulates image appearance of Adobe RGB display 
by applying the proposed spatial gamut mapping. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 Gamut Mapping Algorithm (GMA) is one of the 
important issues in the designs of cross-media 
color reproduction systems. An image rendering 
algorithm based on colorimetric mapping is 
expected to deal with the image’s visually 
color-mismatching problem between different color 
gamuts. As shown in Figure 1, most traditional 
GMAs in the past are created using the concepts of 
device-to-device, where image color mapping is 
performed from input device’s gamut to output one. 
Furthermore, several image-to-device GMAs were 
developed to obtain the effect of the mapped 
image vividly. Recently, the image-dependent 
algorithm considering image’s spatial 
characteristics become the new color technologies 
in the researches of GMAs. These new types of 
GMAs are expected to make a mapped image 
approach more pleasingly color matching intents 
than before. 
According to Morovic’s survey (2008) (see 
Table 1), he classified the spatial gamut mapping 
into 3 types of categories [1]: The first type is the 
algorithm that applies color-by-color gamut mapping 
and adds low spatial frequencies to the mapped 
result [2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]. The second type is to develop 
the GMAs based on Retinex theory, which is a 
well-known computational model for dealing with 
human color constancy [8, 9]. The third category is 
to develop the algorithms of image difference 
minimization, which can be regarded as a 
mathematical optimization program of finding the 
mapped image that is perceptually closed to a given 
source [9, 10]. 
 
chroma
lightness
Input device
Output device
Image device
 
Figure 1 The concept of gamut mapping 
 
MacDonald has suggested a 
five-stage-transform of cross-media color 
reproduction to improve the quality of color 
reproduction. In this transform, device 
characterization, color appearance model and 
gamut mapping are essential elements (see Figure 
2-(a)) [11]. Morovic further introduced the 
six-stage-transform of cross-media color 
reproduction, where image enhancement stage is 
suited for pixel-based GMAs in the pursuit of 
different rendering intents (see Figure 2-(b)). It can 
be seen in this six-stage-transform, besides the 
original 3 elements, he added the image 
enhancement element into the transform [12]. This 
study is conducted to investigate which kind of stage 
transform of cross-media color reproduction the 
spatial-based GMA fits for. 
 
Table 1  The classification of spatial GMAs 
Nakauchi et al. (1996, 
1999) [10]McCann (1999) [8]Meyer and Barth (1989)[2]1
Morovič and Wang (2003) [5]3
Kimmel et al. (2005) [9]Kimmel et al. (2005) [9]
Balasubramanian et al. (2000, 
2001) [3,4]2
Kolås and Farup (2007) [7]5
Zolliker and Simon (2007) [6]4
Image-difference 
minimizationRetinex-basedFrequency-based
Methods
Proposers
 
 characteristics and tone characteristics of color 
displays in the experiment. Total 324 high-chroma 
color points on sRGB’s LCh color gamut boundary 
are produced as test color patches (see Figure 4). 
Each patch is used to display on full screens of 
well-calibrated LCD monitor individually to evaluate 
color differences between calibrated values and 
measured values. Two well-calibrated LCD monitors 
are setup as our experimental test platforms; one is 
ColorEdge CE240W (EIZO) calibrated with sRGB 
profile and the other is ColorEdge CG221 (EIZO) 
calibrated with Adobe RGB profile. For 
sRGB-calibrated LCD monitor (i.e. EIZO ColorEdge 
CE240W), its maximum / minimum/ average color 
difference ∆Eab* values are 2.3/ 0.3/ 1.2 respectively. 
For Adobe RGB-calibrated LCD monitor (i.e. EIZO 
ColorEdge CG221), its maximum / minimum/ 
average color difference ∆Eab* values are 2.8/ 0.1/ 
1.0 respectively. 
 
 
Figure 4  Test color patches with 324 high-chroma 
color points 
 
Based on the above components of spatial GMA, 
3 types of performances of spatial GMAs are 
designed and tested in this study. i.e., forward-USM 
spatial GMA, backward-USM spatial GMA and 
double-USM spatial GMA (see Figures 5, 6, 7). 
“NI-mapping” in these figures represents gamut 
mapping method introducing nonlinear s-curve tone 
mapping and IDL operations. The main differences 
of the 3 spatial GMAs are the locations where USM 
operation is set in the spatial gamut mapping 
process.  
The forward-USM spatial GMA is designed to put 
the USM operation with image enhancing before the 
process of NI-mapped image in the MacDonald’s 
five-stage transform. On the other hand, to put the 
USM operation after the process of NI-mapped 
image in the same five-stage transform is named 
backward-USM spatial GMA, which runs the 
function in compensation for lost luminance 
information during NI-mapping process. The 
double-USM spatial GMA means to combine the two 
processes of forward-USM and backward-USM 
spatial GMAs that can perform both image 
enhancement and luminance compensation 
simultaneously. 
 
b* layer* l y r
a* layer* l y rOriginalimage
ri i l
i
L0* layer0* l y r L1* layer1* l y r
USM
imagei
USM
USM operation
Final mapped
image
i l 
i
NI-
mapping
 
Figure 5  Forward-USM spatial GMA 
 
b* layer* l y r
a* layer* l y rOriginal image
ri i l 
i
NI-mapped
image
I-
i
L0* layer0* l r L1* layer1* l y r
Final mapped
image
i l 
i
USM
NI-
mapping
USM operation
 
Figure 6  Backward-USM spatial GMA 
 
b* layer* l y r
a* layer* l y rOriginalimage
ri i l
i
L0* layer0* l y r L1* layer1* l y r
USM
imagei
USM
USM operation
NI-
mapping
b* layer* l y r
a* layer* l y rNI-mappedimage
I-
i
L0* layer0* l y r L1* layer1* l y r
Final mapped
image
i l 
i
USM
USM operation  
Figure 7  Double-USM spatial GMA 
 
4 kinds of test images with high-saturated colors 
are chosen as the testing GMAs. They are “parrots”, 
“wool-1”, “wool-2” and “mandolin” (see Table 2). The 
psychophysical experiment is carried out to make a 
comparison of color appearance matching between 
original image on Adobe RGB monitor and the 
mapped ones on sRGB monitor. As the pair 
comparison method is performed, two monitors are 
viewed by 12 observers with normal visions in a dark 
room. Using Thurstone’s law of comparative judgment, 
the data from visual assessment experiment are 
analyzed to generate the z-score values [14]. 
Excluding “mandolin” image, the evaluation result 
shows that double-USM spatial GMA has better 
agreement than the other 2 types of spatial GMAs. It 
could be speculated that the different evaluated result 
appearing in “mandolin” image is it’s a little more 
complicated contents than the others. The z-score 
ranking averagely indicates double-USM spatial GMA 
> backward-USM spatial GMA > forward-USM spatial 
GMA (see Figure 8). 
 
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-128 -001 
計畫名稱 廣色域顯示器的空間濾波色域對映與喜好色修正技術之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
孫沛立 世新大學助理教授 
會議時間地點 19-22 January 2009, San Jose Convention Center, San Jose, California, USA 
會議名稱 Electronic Imaging: Science and Technology (IS&T/SPIE 21 Annual Symposium) 
發表論文題目 High Dynamic Range LCD Using Extended Stencil-FSC Method 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
第 21 屆 IS&T/SPIE 電子成像科技年會與往年一樣在矽谷的首都-聖荷西市市中心的
Convention Center召開，有來自 27個國家的近千位學者與業界工程師參加。影像科學與技
術學會(The Society for Imaging Science & Technology, IS&T)與國際光學工程學會(The 
International Society for Optical Engineering, SPIE)在光電領域的發展上，扮演著極為重要的角
色。這兩個組織所發行的期刊，The Journal of Imaging Science & Technology 與 The Journal 
of Electronic Imaging 在影像處理領域享有極高的知名度。所主辦的研討會，將論文集以書
籍形式發行，其中蒐錄的論文經常被相關研究所引用。是這個領域最重要的文獻來源之一。 
 
這兩個組織在 San Jose合辦的 Electronic Imaging研討會，今年的規模與過去相仿，大 
細分 17組不同主題的議程。今年的主題包括： 
 
1. Stereoscopic Displays and Application (第 20屆) 
2. The Engineering Reality of Virtual Reality 
3. 3D Imaging Metrology 
4. Human Vision and Electronic Imaging (第 14屆) 
5. Color Imaging: Displaying, Hardcopy, Processing, and Applications (第 14屆) 
6. Image Quality and System Performance (第 6屆) 
7. Visualization and Data Analysis 
8. Computer Image Analysis in the Study of Art 
9. Real-time Image Processing 
10. Image Processing: Machine Vision 
11. Image Processing: Algorithms and System (第 8屆) 
12. Document Recognition and Retrieval (第 16屆) 
13. Computational Imaging (第 7屆) 
 3
 
研討會的地點交通非常方便，可直接搭乘輕軌火車抵達。會場可無線上網，並提供桌椅
及電源供演講者準備，午餐所需的三明治與飲料，也在會場可以直接購買，節省了不少外食
的時間成本。會場隨時都有免費的飲水。從大會的壁報論文發表與展覽來看，立體顯示技術
是最熱門的研究議題，幾乎半數的廠商展覽項目與立體顯示有關。裸眼光柵式 3D顯示器，
幾使是技術領先的 Philips仍然有視角、解析度不足，容易產生花紋的問題。戴眼鏡的 3D顯
示技術效果最好的莫過於 Nvidia的顯示卡結合藍芽快門式眼鏡，只要 LCD的更新速率夠快，
在玩 3D game時，幾乎看不出任何缺點。台灣已經有奇美製造利用兩層 LCD結合偏光眼鏡的
iZ3D顯示器在市場上販賣，但影像品質遠不如這種技術。看來 3D顯示市場化的時機已經來
到，一場商品大戰即將上演。 
 
研討會在 22日下午完美地畫下句點。我買了三本國內買不到的技術性書籍，並攜回近期
相關研討會的邀稿訊息。次日上午參觀了市中心的科技博物館，這是一個讓小朋友瞭解科技
原理的博物館，設有無數可操作的互動式教具，有點像台中的自然科學博物館。展場有個大
型圓球，可顯示地球、木星等動態影像，其原理是利用四台投影機從四個方向投影，經過影
像幾何與亮度校正，使圓球看起來像是個正在旋轉的星球。是一個非常聰明的設計。最令我
印象深刻的是「晶片設計區」。聖荷西市是加州矽谷的中心，他們煞費苦心地教育他們的下
一代，將複雜的晶片設計原理與程序，化作寓教於樂的互動式遊戲。台灣也應該針對我們的
強項工業，設計教育性的教具，讓下一代能夠了解我們的優勢，順利接棒。 
 
     
研討會報到處          地點: San Jose Convention Center 
     
口頭論文發表會場一隅        口頭論文發表會場一隅 
  
High Dynamic Range LCD Using Extended Stencil-FSC Method  
 
Pei-Li Sun 
 
Dept. of Information Management, Shih Hsin University, Taiwan. 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Field sequential color (FSC) LCD without color filters has been proposed to enhance light efficiency and color gamut. 
However, a well-known intrinsic visual artifact, color breakup, is perceived when a relative velocity exists between the 
object on the screen and the observer’s eyes. A Stencil-FSC method therefore was proposed recently which cumulates 
major color information to the first color sub-frame and therefore suppresses the color breakup. However, the display 
luminance is lower than that of conventional LCDs. To solve this problem, we extend the Stencil-FSC method to 
display high dynamic range (HDR) images. Its first step is to scale HDR RGB signals to baseline RGB dynamic range. 
Afterward, performs the original Stencil-FSC method to initialize all setting. Third, checks each backlight color zone of 
the R, G, B sub-frames to see if they are free for changing their original primaries to RGB mixing primaries. Forth, 
determines the color-mixing state of the ‘free’ primaries based on the extra HDR RGB signals. Finally, calculates the 
LC signals of the new color-mixing primaries. This algorithm would upgrade a FSC LCD as HDR display.  
  
  
 
 1. INTRODUCTION  
 
Field sequential color (FSC) LCD without color filters has been proposed to enhance light efficiency and color gamut. 
[1] However, a well-known intrinsic visual artifact, color breakup, is perceived when a relative velocity exists between 
the object on the screen and the observer’s eyes.[2] The conventional FSC-LCD presents three primary-color (R, G, and 
B) sub-frames on the same pixels of an LCD in time sequence to form a full-color image. When the eyes look at three 
high luminance images sporadically, Color breakup can easily be seen which reduces image clarity. A Stencil-FSC 
method therefore was proposed recently [3] where the idea comes from the recreation of “Stencil,” like a kid who paints 
an undertone on his painting first, and then paints other colors over it to complete a vivid, colorful picture. 
The method cumulates major color information to the first color sub-frame and therefore suppresses the color breakup. 
It also enhances the contrast ratio of images with low average power consumption. However, the display luminance is 
lower than that of conventional LCDs. To solve this problem, we extend the Stencil-FSC method to display high 
dynamic range (HDR) images. The original Stencil-FSC method used four sub-frames including Color, R, G, and B 
sub-frames. The computation is relatively simple but it doesn’t reach color gamut extreme of the display. Local 
dimming technologies for RGB LED backlight have been greatly improved these years. If we drive the backlight of the 
four sub-frames as W(white), W, W, W sequentially in the specularly highlight region of an HDR image, its luminance 
would be very high and therefore provides a good match to the color appearance of its original scene. On the other hand, 
a high luminance pure red (traffic light as an example) can be displayed as R, R, R, R sequentially in a local area. We 
derived an algorithm to extend the Stencil-FSC method to show HDR images. Its first step is to scale HDR RGB signals 
to baseline RGB dynamic range. Afterward, performs the original Stencil-FSC method to initialize all setting. Third, 
checks each backlight color zone of the R, G, B sub-frames to see if they are free for changing their original primaries 
to RGB mixing primaries. Forth, determines the color-mixing state of the ‘free’ primaries based on the extra HDR RGB 
signals. Finally, calculates the LC signals of the new color-mixing primaries. This algorithm would upgrade a FSC LCD 
as HDR display. However, it increases the complexity of backlight color determination and LC signal compensation. As 
HDR display is one way to achieve high fidelity image reproduction. The proposed method is worth introducing. 
 
2. THE STENCIL-FSC METHOD 
 
The original Stencil-FSC method first calculates LED backlight signals based on the target image for RGB primary-
colors, BLR, BLG and BLB, using a backlight localizing controlled technology. [4] The LC transmittance values of R, G 
  
 
Figure 1. Image simulation using modified Stencil-FSC method. Left: original. Right: the reproduction. 
 
 
Figure 2. The backlight colors (top row), LC transmittances (middle row) and their integration (bottom row) of the 
reproduction of Figure 1-right. 
 
3. EXTENDED STENCIL-FSC METHOD FOR HDR IMAGES 
 
This section introduces the ideas and considerations of the proposed HDR display method. The method is based on the 
above mentioned Stencil-FSC method. It first scale HDR image RGB values to LDR, and then goes through the 
baseline Stencil-FSC method. After checking the empty blocks of the second, third and forth sub-frames, we paint the 
extra HDR colors softly into those blocks on the three sub-frames in order. 
3.1. RGB Scaling and the Baseline Stencil-FSC 
Due to the Stencil-FSC method must us LDR image, the HDR image must be converted to linear space and scaled down 
to [0 1] range first. The scaling factor for each of RGB channel must be identical to maintain color balance. If the image 
content is not uniform, the RGB sub-frames would have less empty blocks and therefore cannot add the extra to those 
areas. Regardless the scaling would result in unacceptable color variations.  
After the RGB scaling, the baseline Stencil-FSC is used. We applied the modified one (introduced in Section 2.1) rather 
than the original version is because the former can save more space to paint extra HDR colors. 
3.2. Paint Extra Colors to Empty Color Zones 
  
 
Figure 4. The backlight colors (top row), LC transmittances (middle row) and their integration (bottom row) of the 
reproduction of Figure 3-meddle using the modified Stencil-FSC method. 
 
 
Figure 5. The backlight colors (top row), LC transmittances (middle row) and their integration (bottom row) of the 
reproduction of Figure 3-right. 
 
  
 
 
 
Figure 8. HDR image (night shot) simulation using the modified Stencil-FSC (top-middle) and the HDR method (top-
right). The bottoms are the four sub-frames. The HDR method is not suitable for image with high color frequency. 
 
 
Figure 9. HDR image simulation using the modified Stencil-FSC (middle) and the HDR method (right). The HDR 
method lost some colorfulness. 
 
 
Figure 10. HDR image (night shot) simulation using the modified Stencil-FSC (top-middle) and the HDR method (top-
right). The HDR method show unacceptable halo effect to uniform business graphic. 
 
Figure 7 show an astronomical sun image. It contains red and yellow mainly so it leave whole blue sub-frame (the forth 
sub-frame) to enhance the red. However, the HDR method is not working well for high frequency color image like 
Figure 8. As can be seen, the HDR simulation shows some unwanted texture on the ground. Figure 9 displays skin tones 
where the HDR method lost some colorfulness on lips. The main reason is that we used high threshold D to change 
backlight colors from single RGB to its mixture. It would increase brightness but is likely to sacrifice pure colors. 
Figure 10 shows a business graphic with many uniform areas. Its LDR reproduction has good uniformity but the 
