 2 
its variance. Wei and Wang (2003) studied the time-cost tradeoff problem with 
quadratic activity crash cost function and used a set of piecewise linear segments to 
approximate the activity cost curve. 
Some variants of time-cost tradeoff problems have also been studied by 
researchers. The time-cost tradeoff for resource constrained project was first studied by 
Talbot (1982). Erenguc et al (1993) solved the time-cost tradeoff project scheduling 
with discounted cash flows using generalized Benders decomposition. Sunde and 
Lichtenberg (1995) presented a heuristic approach to solve the net-present value 
time-cost tradeoff problem. Icmeli and Erenguc (1996) studied the time-cost tradeoffs 
for project scheduling with discounted cash flows and resource constraint. Babu and 
Suresh (1996) developed a linear programming model that takes into consideration of 
project quality in developing the optimal crashing strategy. Ahn and Erenguc (1998) 
presented a heuristic procedure to solve a combination of time-cost tradeoff and 
resource constraint problem where crashing is allowed within some selected mode. 
Demeulemeester (2000) presented a branch-and-bound procedure to deal with the 
resource constrained and time-cost tradeoff problem where the activity time and 
resource requirement are uncertain. Arikan and Gungor (2001) applied fuzzy goal 
programming to simultaneous optimize the project completion time and crash costs. 
Vanhoucke, et al (2002) described a solution procedure for time-cost tradeoff problem 
when three special cases of time-switch constraints are involved. Laslo (2003) 
discussed the stochastic time-cost tradeoff problem and proposed formulations to 
address the distributions of activity time and cost. 
Assumptions made in most of the researches dealing with time-cost tradeoff often 
assume that the crash cost of a project activity is an increased convex function, and can 
be approximated linearly. This assumption is also adopted in most of the textbooks in 
production and/or project management. However, such assumption neglects the fact 
that, in practice, crash cost of every project activity is often an unknown function of 
time. It may fluctuate with the time sequence of activity crashing. Specifically, the 
activity crash cost may go up and down in random fashion instead of steadily going up 
(i.e., Crash cost does not necessarily increase as crashing continues, it can go down at 
some points of crashing).  
In this research, we have developed a 0-1 integer programming formulation to 
accommodate the uncertain crash cost function for project activities. We then develop 
a transformation technique to transform such formulation into an equivalent problem. 
We have also shown that such transformed problem can be directly constructed and 
efficiently solved. Furthermore, the solution of its decision variables has more 
meaningful interpretations on the desired optimal crashing strategy. 
