À 
Abstract 
A video transmission system based on the datagram congestion control protocol 
(DCCP) is studied for the transport of real-time video streams over the wireless 
Internet. The major features of DCCP protocol designing for wireless video coding 
and transmission include a TCP-friendly rate control (TFRC) mechanism and a partial 
checksum coverage scheme. Although DCCP/TFRC flows with a variable packet size 
are beneficial in enabling a robust video transmission in wireless environments, they 
have an adverse effect on the TCP-friendliness of the flows. Accordingly, an in-packet 
segmentation scheme is proposed to preserve the TCP-friendliness of the 
DCCP-based video flows by partitioning each packet into a series of virtual segments 
with a size determined by the current channel status. Moreover, the segmentation 
scheme is integrated with a wireless automatic repeat request (ARQ) protocol and a 
partial checksum coverage mechanism to enable the corrupted segments within any 
packet to be efficiently recovered via MAC-level retransmissions. The experimental 
results demonstrate efficacy of the in-packet segmentation schemes under a variety of 
network conditions and show that the DCCP-based video system employing the 
proposed scheme obtains a smooth, high end-to-end perceptual video quality for 
real-time video streams over the wireless Internet. 
 
Index Terms – DCCP, TCP-friendliness, packetization, video streaming, wireless 
Internet 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figure 1. Wireless video transmission system. 
 
 
 
Figure 2. The structure of VS header. 
reduced errors in it. 
This report is outlined as follows. 
Section 2 is our proposed scheme. In 
Section 3, some performance results are 
shown. Section 4 gives some conclusions. 
 
2. In-packet segmentation scheme 
 
We use the lightweight user datagram 
protocol (UDP-Lite) to send damaged 
packet to upper layer [7]. This protocol is 
designed to deliver the partial damaged 
packets to upper applications [8, 9]. The 
major difference between UDP and 
UDP-Lite is the way that they adopt to 
handle the corrupted packets. In UDP, the 
packet containing errors in it is discarded. 
On the contrary, UDP-Lite can detect the 
errors by using a partial checksum 
technique and ignore the errors to forward 
the corrupted packet. Therefore, the video 
applications that have error resilience 
codec can utilize the data within some bit 
errors to enhance the perceived quality 
[10]. To make UDP-Lite work correctly, it 
is desired to modify the MAC layer to 
forward error packets to upper layer and 
this modified link layer refers to 
generator. At the receiver sides, TFRC 
receiver receives the packets from TFRC 
sender. TCP flows are produced as the 
background traffic to compete the 
available bandwidth with the TFRC flow. 
Along the packet traverse path, the 
intermediate node uses the NISTnet tool 
to generate the packet delay. The CISCO 
router limits the bandwidth in the wireless 
link. Table 1 shows the network settings 
and traffic settings. 
  
Table 1. Experimental environment 
settings 
 
 
We estimate the fairness by using the 
normalized throughput equation as Eq. (2) 
where the “small pktsize” refers to the 
packet size which is smaller than 1000 
bytes. 
 
(2) 
 
Figure 4 shows the normalized 
throughput comparison as static small 
packet size varies from 200 bytes, 400 
bytes, 600 bytes, 800 bytes, to 1000 bytes. 
The line denoted as “No-TFRC” means 
that we actually use the small packets to 
transmit data based on TFRC; the line 
denoted as “VP-TFRC” is the same 
meaning as the line “NO-TFRC” except 
that the virtual packet scheme is used. 
From Figure 4, the throughput of TFRC 
should be reasonable fair while TFRC 
uses the same packet size as TCP to 
compete bandwidth. Because our 
proposed scheme virtually segments the 
packet and the packet size is close to the 
one of TCP flow, our proposed scheme 
outperforms the other two methods in the 
fairness comparison. From the results, the 
normalized throughput of our proposed 
scheme is closed to 1 for every static 
packet size. Figure 5 shows the 
normalized throughput of VP-TFRC, 
NO-TFRC and the proposed scheme for 
different numbers of TCP flows. In Figure 
5, both the VP-TFRC and NO-TFRC 
scheme determine the packet size by using 
Eq. (1) to maximize the throughput 
efficiency. In calculating Eq. (1), the 
parameters k, h, and PB refer to the length 
of data field of the packet in bits, the 
length of header of the packet in bits, and 
the packet corruption rate, respectively. 
From Figure 4 and Figure 5, the smaller 
the packet size and the more number of 
the TCP flows can cause the throughput of 
original unmodified TFRC more unfair. 
From above experimental results, our 
proposed scheme achieves good 
throughput fairness. Figure 6 shows the 
PSNR for varied MAC retry limit. The 
line denoted as “Original” represents the 
results without packet size control. The 
line denoted as Adaptive packet size” 
represents the results that the packet size 
is determined by using Eq. (1). From 
Figure 6, our proposed scheme achieves 
high PSNR values by utilizing the 
retransmitted packets.  
 
 
4. Conclusions 
 
This project proposes an in-packet 
segmentation scheme to avoid the 
throughput unfairness induced by 
References 
 
[1] IEEE Standards for Information 
Technology --- Telecommunications and 
Information Exchange between System 
--- Local and Metropolitan Area 
Network --- Specific Requirements. 
[2] D. Wu, Y. T. Hou, and Y.-Q. Zhang, 
“Transporting Real-Time Video over 
The Internet: Challenges and 
Approaches,” Proceedings of the IEEE, 
Vol. 88, December 2000, pp. 
1855-1877. 
[3] E. Modiano, “An Adaptive 
Algorithm for Optimizing the Packet 
Size Used in Wireless ARQ Protocols,” 
Wireless Networks, Vol. 5, Issue: 4, 
1999, pp. 279-286. 
[4] J. Widmer, C. Boutremans, J.- Y. L. 
Boudec, “End-to end Congestion 
Control for TCP-Friendly Flows with 
Variable Packet Size,” ACM 
SIGCOMM Computer Communication 
Review, Vol. 34, Issue: 2, 2004, pp. 
137-151. 
[5] P. R. Vasallo, “Variable Packet Size 
Equation-Based Congestion Control,” 
International Computer Science 
Institute, 2000. 
[6] M. Handley, S. Floyd, J. Padhye, and J. 
Widmer, TCP Friendly Rate Control 
(TFRC): Protocol Specification, 
RFC3448, January 2003. 
[7] L.-A. Larzon, M. Degermark, S. Pink, 
L.-E. Jonsson, G. Fairhurst, The 
Lightweight User Datagram Protocol 
(UDP-Lite), RFC3828, July 2004. 
[8] Zheng, H., Boyce, J., “An Improved 
UDP Protocol for Video Transmission 
over Internet-to-Wireless Networks,” 
IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, Vol. 
3, Issue: 3, pp. 356-365, September 
2001. 
[9] W. Stanislaus, G. Fairhurst, J. Radzik, 
“Crosser Layer Techniques for Flexible 
Transport Protocol Using UDP-Lite 
over A Satellite Network,” 2nd 
International Symposium on Wireless 
Communication Systems, pp. 706-710, 
September 2005. 
[10] G. Ding, Ghafoor, H. , Bhargava, B. , 
“Error Resilient Video Transmission 
over Wireless Networks,” IEEE 
Workshop on Software Technologies for 
Future Embedded Systems, pp. 31-34, 
May 2003. 
路徑；以及另一位日本學生 University of Tokyo 報告的 A Visually-Enhanced 
Approach to Watermarking 3D Takahashi，如何利用圖片來隱藏資訊，不過日本的
學生的日語口音還是很重，在報告的地方很多都是用動畫來帶過報告，是個滿特
別的表示方式．  
 
 
二、心得與建議： 
 此次的地點在德國的 Darmstadt，會議舉辦地點的交通安排並不是很理想。
但是此處像是一個獨立的小城鎮那樣，雖然人口不是很多，但是環境還是很優
美，而且德國的商店下午六點左右就全部關門，而且假日還完全不開店．在那邊
生活的感覺上就是很從容且悠閒，有異於台灣的生活作息．而這次參與國際會議
也替我累積了一些出國行事以及與人交流的經驗，相信這些收穫對未來從事研究
工作相當有益． 

其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
