英文關鍵詞： Privacy, Privacy-preserving authentication, user 
authentication, secret handshake, Cloud computing, 
social networking 
 
 1
 
 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞 
 
在過去的幾年裡，發展資訊科技系統時，隱私已經成為一個非常重要的問題。
通常在取得線上服務之前，第一步是提出證據以證明使用者是經過授權的用
戶。在這個研究計畫中，我們集中在保有隱私之認證方面的探討。保有隱私之
認證方式，也可以讓小組成員的會籍僅對該組中的會員透露。這就是所謂的秘
密握手，或會籍隱藏認證方式。雲端計算和社群網路，已經成為新興技術的發
展趨勢。因此隱私和安全已成為，採用這些新的計算模式和服務的所有用戶，
非常重要的關注。我們的研究貢獻有： 
（1）探討設計安全的保有隱私之認證的基本工具，以及 
（2）設計實用的保有隱私之使用者身份認證機制。 
 
關鍵詞：隱私，保有隱私之認證，使用者身份認證，秘密握手，雲端計算，社
群網路 
 
 
In the last few years, privacy has become a very important issue in the development of 
IT systems. To present evidence that a user is authorized to do something is called 
user authentication. This is the first step in accessing many online services. In this 
project we will focus on protecting privacy during user authentication. 
Privacy-preserving authentication can also allow group members' affiliations to be 
revealed only to members who hold specific roles in the group. This is called secret 
handshake or affiliation hiding authentication. Cloud computing and social 
networking have become emerging technology trends. With their immense growth in 
popularity, privacy and security have become important concerns to all users adopting 
these new computing paradigms and services. There is a strong need for an efficient 
and effective privacy-preserving system that is independent of trusted third parties, 
able to unambiguously identify users that can be trusted both within enterprises and 
across the Web. The contribution is twofold:  
(1) Study basic tools for designing secure privacy-preserving authentication schemes, 
and 
(2) Design practical privacy-preserving user authentication schemes,  
 
 
Keywords: Privacy, Privacy-preserving authentication, user authentication, 
secret handshake, Cloud computing, social networking 
 
 3
In this project we focus on protecting privacy during user authentication. To present 
evidence that a user is authorized to do something is called user authentication. This 
is the first step in accessing many online services. The commonly used method of 
authentication through name and password, or the more advanced cryptographic 
methods using one-time passwords or certificates, reveal users' identities. Privacy 
preserving user authentication allows a user to authenticate himself to a service 
provider, as an entity possessing a certain attribute without revealing his identity.  
 
Privacy-preserving authentication can allow group members' affiliations to be 
revealed only to members who hold specific roles in the group. This is called secret 
handshake or affiliation hiding authentication. It was first introduced in 2003. A 
typical application scenario is from the world of espionage. For example, a CIA agent 
Alice might want to authenticate herself to Bob, but only if Bob is also a CIA agent. 
Moreover, if Bob is not a CIA agent, the protocol should not help Bob in determining 
whether Alice is a CIA agent or not.  
 
Cloud computing and social networking have become emerging technology trends. 
With their immense growth in popularity, privacy and security have become important 
concerns to all users adopting these new computing paradigms and services. It is very 
likely that users end up having multiple identities in multiple service providers’ 
security repositories, as well as multiple credentials and multiple access permissions 
for different services provided by different service providers. There is a strong need 
for an efficient and effective privacy-preserving system that is independent of trusted 
third parties, able to unambiguously identify users that can be trusted both within 
enterprises and across the Web.  
 
The idea of privacy-preserving authentication has been proposed and studied in the 
beginning of 21st century. However, nowadays, due to ubiquitous computing 
application needs, it becomes more important than ever. A lot of research results have 
been reported (see annotated references) in recent five years.  
However, it is not a hot research topic in our country. There is no research project on 
“privacy-preserving authentication” and only three related research projects supported 
by NSC based on 政府重要科技計畫(GRB)查詢: (字串查詢 privacy-preserving) 確
保資料隱私之分散式挖掘技術之研究 (RN9510-1573), 具保護隱私的安全車載
通訊技術之研究 (PB9907-12315), and 利用空間加密法為基礎之資訊擷取過程
以達成著重隱私性之無線區域性服務 (PB9803-0084). 
 
On the contrary, a lot of related research projects have been initiated all over the 
 5
 
 3. 文獻探討 
 
Privacy preserving authentication and secret handshaking are hot research topics. 
Some recent papers are annotated below. In [1], the authors show that Jarecki et 
al.’s scheme has some drawbacks and therefore it does not fulfill the security 
requirements of secret handshake. They also present a new construction of the 
group secret handshake scheme where a valid member in the group never reveals 
his group affiliation unless all the other parties are valid members of the same 
group. The scheme is shown to be secure under the bilinear Diffie- Hellman 
assumption and decisional bilinear Diffie-Hellman assumption in the random 
oracle model. In [2] the authors propose a scheme, called Ninja, which is a 
non-identity-based authentication scheme for a mobile ubiquitous environment. In 
Ninja the trustworthiness of a user's device is authenticated anonymously to a 
remote Service Provider, during the service discovery process. They also show 
how this can be achieved using Trusted Computing functionality. In [3], the 
authors describe privacy in ubiquitous computing briefly. The challenges are 
presented and some issues are addressed. In [4] the authors define service groups 
and classify them into two cases: public service and private service. End users’ 
privacy is important in public service group while privacy of end users and service 
providers are important in private service group. Based on this observation, they 
propose a lightweight, privacy preserving and secure service discovery protocol for 
UCE. It provides accountability, improves non-linkability, enhances security level 
by sharing a selected number set, and does not rely on underlying system 
infrastructure. In [5], the authors present a new and stronger security model for 
gateway-based password-authenticated key exchange (GPAKE) schemes. They 
also show how to add client anonymity with respect to the server to the basic 
GPAKE scheme by using private information retrieval protocols. In [6] the authors 
contend that the emerging ubiquitous Information Society will raise many privacy 
and trust issues that are context-dependent. These issues will pose many challenges 
for policy- makers and stakeholders because people’s notions of privacy and trust 
are different and shifting. The authors provide numerous examples of the 
challenges facing policy-makers and identify some possible responses, but they see 
a need for improvements in the policy-making process in order to deal more 
effectively with varying contexts. They also identify some useful policy-making 
tools. They conclude that the broad brush policies of the past are not likely to be 
adequate to deal with the new challenges. [7] contradicts the commonly held view 
that privacy and security of data must sometimes be sacrificed for the sake of 
national security. The authors demonstrate that for specific examples of real mobile 
 7
X.509 standard to group signature schemes and anonymous credentials in a more 
standard and efficient way than related work [13]. The authors in [14] introduce a 
novel, non-interactive technique to update issuer-controlled attributes of 
anonymous credentials. Revocation is implemented by encoding the validity time 
of a credential into one of these attributes. With the proposed protocol, credential 
issuers can periodically update valid credentials off-line and publish a small 
per-credential update value on a public bulletin-board. Users can later download 
their values and re-validate their credentials to prove possession of a valid 
credential for the current time period. [15] focuses on the adoption of 
privacy-enhancing technologies by providing a summary of what such 
technologies can achieve. [16] presents the first secret handshake scheme that 
allows dynamic matching of properties under stringent security requirements: in 
particular, the right to prove and to verify are strictly under the control of an 
authority. This work merges characteristics of secret handshake with features 
peculiar to Secure Matchmaking. [17] presents a simple protocol that allows a user 
to prove to a verifier possession of a credential. Credentials can be revoked simply 
by publishing a value in a revocation list. This protocol is extremely flexible and 
its security is proven without random oracles. Current Secret Handshakes (SH) and 
Affiliation-Hiding Authenticated Key Exchange (AH-AKE) schemes consider 
Group Authorities (GAs) to be fully trusted, especially, with regard to (i) security 
of the registration phase (no phantom members), (ii) secrecy of established session 
keys, and (iii) privacy. The impact of possible “big brother” ambitions of malicious 
GAs has not been investigated so far. In this paper, the authors discuss implications 
on group members’ privacy and security of their communication in the presence of 
possible GA corruptions. They demonstrate problems arising from relaxed GA 
trust assumptions and propose an efficient — yet provably secure — AH-AKE 
protocol with enhanced privacy properties [18]. In [19], the authors present the 
first framework that allows the creation of Secret Interest Groups (SIGs) in Online 
Social Networks. SIGs are self-managed groups formed outside of the social 
network, around secret, sensitive or private topics. They also describe a java 
implementation of the framework for Facebook. [20] describes Untraceable Secret 
Handshakes, cryptographic protocols that allow two users to mutually verify 
another’s properties without revealing their identity or other sensitive information. 
The complex security solution is split into smaller parts, which are described in an 
abstract way. The structured description together with motivating scenarios from 
three different domains makes the security solution better understandable for 
non-security experts and helps to disseminate the security knowledge to 
application developers.  
 
 9
 Security: the server cannot learn anything about users’ identities. 
 Efficiency: the amount of computation performed by the user; 
 Communication: the size of data exchanged between the server and the user. 
  
 Many cryptographic primitives can be applied in designing secure privacy 
preserving user authentication schemes. Examples include hash chain, pseudorandom 
functions, secret sharing, zero knowledge, private information retrieval, predicate 
encryption and homomorphic encryption. We will study them in details. We can also 
gain insight by analyzing previous schemes. We set some criteria and conduct 
comparison among them. We then construct two models for designing new privacy 
preserving user authentication schemes. One has an authentication server, similar to 
the Kerberos structure. The other has no authentication server. Our design goals are 
the followings: minimize communication overhead, minimize computation on both 
the SP and the user, and practical security requirements.  
 
We try to construct schemes based on Kerberos structure and use different 
cryptographic primitives to achieve privacy. We also address the accounting issues. 
Our purpose is to capture the properties and functionalities that are common to all 
implementations. Recently, password-based privacy preserving authenticated key 
exchange (PPAKE) protocols have been received much attention. Basic PPAKE 
schemes enable two entities to authenticate each other and agree on a large session 
key from a human memorable password. We also try to construct schemes when there 
is no authentication server on line and smart card is used.  
 
Finally, we summarize the results into technical reports and submit them to related 
conferences and journals for publications.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11
利用保有隱私之認證，可以讓使用者在存取伺服器端時保有一些私人的隱私。相
對地，伺服器端就無法掌握所有有關使用者的隱私，也以防伺服器被破壞時所有
使用者的隱私也相對洩漏出去。目前我們已經針對保有隱私認證協定的安全性與
安全需求做出了一定的結論，在機制設計上，我們皆計算效能、通訊成本、安全
層級有所改善。後續工作除了希望可以與現階段流行的手機 APP 做接合，開發
出更完善的系統外，研究上更邁向保有隱私的私密握手協定更深入去鑽研。 
 
 
References: 
1. L. Zhou, W. Susilo and Y. Mu, New Construction of Group Secret 
Handshakes Based on Pairings, ICICS 2007, LNCS 4861, pp. 16–30, 2007. 
2. A. Leung and C. Mitchell, Ninja : Non Identity Based, Privacy Preserving 
Authentication for Ubiquitous Environments, Proc. of the 9th inter. conf. 
on Ubiquitous computing, 2007. 
3. T. Ma, S. Kim, J. Wang, Y. Zhao, "Privacy Preserving in Ubiquitous 
Computing: Challenges & Issues," IEEE International Conference on 
e-Business Engineering, pp.297-301, 2008. 
4. J. Kim and K. Kim, A Lightweight, Privacy Preserving and Secure Service 
Discovery Protocol in Ubiquitous Computing Environment, WISA 2008. 
5. M. Abdalla, M. Izabachene, and D. Pointcheval, Anonymous and 
Transparent Gateway-Based Password-Authenticated Key Exchange, 
CANS 2008, LNCS 5339, pp. 133–148, 2008. 
6. D. Wright, S. Gutwirth, M. Friedewald, P. de Hert, M. Langheinrich, and 
A. Moscibroda. "Privacy, trust and policy-making: Challenges and 
responses" Computer Law and Security Review 25.1 pp. 69-83, 2009. 
7. P.A. Karger, G.S. Kc, and D.C. Toll: Privacy is essential for secure mobile 
devices. IBM Journal of Research and Development 53(2) (2009) 
8. Y. Yang, J. Zhou, J. Weng, F. Bao, A New Approach for Anonymous 
Password Authentication, Computer Security Applications Conference, 
2009. pp. 199 - 208. 
9. M. Manulis, B. Pinkas and B. Poettering, Privacy-Preserving Group 
Discovery with Linear Complexity, ACNS 2010, LNCS 6123, pp. 420–437, 
2010. 
10. R. Ranchal, B. Bhargava, L.B. Othmane, L. Lilien, A. Kim, and M. Kang, 
Protection of Identity Information in Cloud Computing without Trusted 
Third Party, Third International Workshop on Dependable Network 
Computing and Mobile Systems (DNCMS) 2010. 
11. J.C. Park, Privacy-Preserving Authentication of Users with Smart Cards 
Using One-Time Credentials, IEICE TRANSACTIONS on Information 
and Systems, Vol.E93-D, No.7, pp.1997-2000, 2010. 
 13
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學
術或應用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發
展之可能性）、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其
他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評
估 
▓  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
部分研究成果已在學術研討會上發表: 
1 Hsin-Ruey Tsai, Gwoboa Horng, and Yu-Chi Chen, “An Efficient and 
Secure RFID Protocol with Ownership Transfer,”ICCIT2011: 6th 
International Conference on Computer Sciences and Convergence 
Information Technology, November 29 to December 1, 2011, in Jeju 
Island, Republic of Korea. 
2 施依君, 陳昱圻, 陳國璋, 洪國寶, 基於隨機化可搜尋加密法之私密握
手協定, 2012全國資安會議 (CISC2012), 舉辦日期101/5/30 - 31, 舉辦
地點：國立中興大學. 
3 Chien-Cheng Huang, Hsin-Ruey Tsai and Gwoboa Horng, Improving the 
security of an RFID delegation protocol, 2012全國資安會議 (CISC2012), 
舉辦日期101/5/30 - 31, 舉辦地點：國立中興大學 
 
附件一 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 保有隱私之認證--模式，機制，及應用
計畫主持人: 洪國寶
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-005-062- 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
