 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
瓶型光學聶夾與光子晶體光纖連續光譜研究(2/2) 
計畫編號：NSC-95-2221-E-009-308 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：謝文峰教授    國立交通大學光電工程系 
 
一、中文摘要 
我們成功的利用聚焦通過一個錐狀鏡之超寬連續光來產生超寬連續光譜瓶型光
束。利用beam profiler 我們記錄了所產生瓶型光的截面強度分布；而利用不同中心波長
之濾光片，由於錐狀鏡和聚焦鏡之色散使得不同顏色的光具有稍微不同之瓶型區間。我
們觀察之結果與理論應用Fresnel-Kirchhoff’s公式計算相符。 
 
關鍵詞：超快光學、非線性光學、光子晶體光纖、超寬連續光譜, 瓶型光束, 光學局限
與操作。 
 
Abstract 
A supercontinuum bottle beam was successfully produced by focusing a supercontinuum laser beam after 
passing through an axicon.  The supercontinuum radiation was generated from a microstructured fiber pumped 
by a self-kerr-lens mode-locked femtosecond Ti:sapphire laser.  The cross-section intensity distributions of the 
generated bottle were recorded by a beam profiler.  Using the line filters to select different central wavelengths, 
the different colors of bottle beams show slightly different bottle ranges and diameters due to the dispersion of 
axicon and focusing lens.  The results consist with the theoretical prediction using the Fresnel-Kirchhoff’s 
formula in considering an incident Gaussian beam. 
 
Keywords: ultrafast optics, optical nonlinearity, photonic crystal fiber, supercontinuum 
generation, bottle beam, Optical confinement and manipulation. 
 
二、緣由與目的 
Recently, hollow beam and optical bottle beam have attracted great interests in various applications such 
as atom guiding, atom trapping and optical trapping of particles [1-4].  An optical bottle beam, in which a dark 
focus is surrounded by regions of higher intensity, has been produced by using a holographic plate [5] and 
interference of two laser beams with different curvatures [6]. Generation of bottle beams by focused Bessel 
beam are proposed, in which a ring image is generated in the focal plane of the lens, and a Bessel beam can also 
be reconstructed beyond the focal plane under particular focusing conditions [7-10].  The optical bottles can 
also be directly generated from a tightly focused end-pumped laser operated around the degenerate cavity 
configurations [11].  Recently, a dynamically one-parameter-tunable method with high-energy efficiency is 
used to generate various evolutions of beams [12].  The distance between the axicon and the focused lens is 
tuned to transform the focused beams from bottle beams to hollow beams that are experimentally demonstrated 
in consistent with theoretical predictions. 
Supercontinuum (SC) generation by launching an ultra-short pulse into microstructure fibers (MFs) has 
been widely investigated due to their high nonlinear coefficient and tailorable dispersion.  The generated SC 
has many practical applications, such as metrology, optical coherence tomography, and optical communication, 
etc. [13-14].  Besides, the generated SC has high spatial coherence that can be used for simultaneous 
micro-particle manipulation and spectroscopy in optical trapping [15-16].  Due to the chromatic aberration of 
lens, the enhanced spectral bandwidth of SC can elongate focal region in optical guiding of microscopic particles 
[17].  In use of the axicon [18] or spatial light modulator [19], the characteristics of white light Bessel beam 
were investigated, which can be used for the micromanipulation of atoms and mesoscopic particles.  
Wavelength tunable hollow-beam-generation from the dispersive wave through the MFs has been reported, 
which offers advantages for optical tweezers and atom guiding [20].  However, to our best knowledge, there 
are no reports on generating SC optical bottle beams. 
In this report, we generate SC bottle beam by focusing a SC laser beam after passing through an axicon. 
Using line filters to select central wavelengths, the ranges of optical bottle beams of different wavelengths are 
 4
smallest range of bottle and the smallest diameter Db in comparison with monochromatic bottle beam.  Besides, 
the length ⊗z is adjustable if we vary the distance between the axicon and the lens z0, as proposed in Ref. 12. 
The experimental layout provides a simple technique to generate an adjustable supercontinuum bottle beam. 
 
(B) Theory 
Tight assembly of an axicon and a positive lens can be used to transform a Gaussian beam either into a 
super-Gaussian, a ring-shape, or a doughnut-beam by changing the distance between them [10].  From the 
geometrical analysis of Ref. 12, the tightly assembled structure, i.e. z0 = 0, can present a hollow beam beyond 
the lens only.  In this section, we will focus on generation of the bottle beam by considering a Gaussian input 
beam passing through the separated assembly of an axicon and a lens.  The transverse electric field distribution 
of the Gaussian beam with amplitude E0 and radius W impinging on the axicon is given by 
          (1) 
Here, the axicon has angle θ (between the conical and the flat surfaces) and reflective index n.  After the 
Gaussian beam has passed through the axicon, it experiences a linear phase shift φ(r)=exp(-ibr), where b=2πn 
tanθ/λ and λ is the wavelength of the incident beam.  When we place a lens with the focal length f behind the 
axicon by a distance z0, an optical bottle can be generated under the condition z0 > f.  The diffraction electric 
field amplitude E(r΄,z΄) at a distance z΄ from the lens can be described by the Fresnel-Kirchhoff’s formula as 
    (2) 
where A, B, and D are the elements of the transform ABCD matrix of exiting from the axicon through the lens to 
the distance z΄.  Therefore, the on-axis electric field amplitude, i.e., r΄=0 and J0(0)=1, can be simplified to 
   (3) 
With the help of the integral formula of (3.462.5) in Ref. 21, we obtain the on-axis field 
   (4) 
Here,   and .  Using the parameters z0 = 7.2 cm, W = 2.4 mm, and refractive 
index n=1.51392 at 670 nm for Eq. (4), the on-axis intensity as a function of z΄ was plotted in Fig. 5.  The 
focusing lens of different center wavelength will be considered and estimated by the formula f = (n-1)/R.  We 
therefore can determine where the bottle begins and terminates (two foci) for different center wavelengths that 
are listed in red in Table 1.  The values estimated from the theoretical calculation from Eq. (4) are close to the 
measured data that show shorter foci at the shorter central wavelength.  The experimental results agree with 
theoretical predictions. 
Practically, the smaller values of Db about micron scale are required for optical trapping of microparticles. 
For example, low-index particles have been trapped by using a double axicon with θ =0.23˚ and 0.39˚ to produce 
optical bottle ~ 100 μm.  Then, a telescope arrangement can further reduce the size of the bottle beam to about 
10 μm [1-2].  In this experiment, we select the axicon with θ = 5˚ to generate the optical bottle with lateral size 
of millimeter scale so that it can be easier to resolve by the beam imager.  Based on the relation 
Db = f(n-1)θ [12], the lateral size of the optical bottle beam can be further reduced by selecting the focusing lens 
with larger NA or using the telescope systems.  Unfortunately, the extreme rays may be attenuated by limiting 
NA to destroy the intensity structure of the generated bottle beam.  Nevertheless, the axicon with smaller 
θ (< 0.25˚) is commercially available such as those used in Ref. 12 and micro-fabrication of double axicon with 
θ = 0.1˚ and 0.08˚ [1-2] that can further reduce the size of the size (both axial and lateral) in micron scale.  If 
we choose the axicon with smaller angle such as θ = 0.25˚ and f = 2.5mm, we can simply estimate the lateral 
size Db = 11.21 μm using the relation: Db = f(n-1)θ.   The value is close to numerically computed value of 11.19 
μm using Eq. (2) with W = 150μm and z0 = f and the axial size is about 10 μm.  Besides, the Bessel-Gaussian 
beam formed via a Gaussian beam’s impinging through an axicon with smaller θ should have smaller divergent 
angle.  As a result, the extreme rays being attenuated by limiting NA can also be avoided.  Furthermore, in use 
of the various band-passed filters after lens, wavelength-adjustable bottle beams are selected to match the 
specific requirement for different atom trappings. 
五、結論 
Supercontinuum bottle beam was successful produced by passing supercontinuum beam generated from 
microstructure fiber through assembly of axicon and positive-lens.  Due to the dispersion of axicon and lens, 
the positions of two foci as well as the diameters of optical bottle depend on central wavelength.  Thus, the 
range of the supercontinuum optical bottle is as predicted the smallest.  In use of the Fresnel-Kirchhoff’s 
formula and considering Gaussian input beam profile, the ranges of optical bottles at different center 
