 2
中文摘要 
走路是人基本的能力，使每個人能獨立自者的活動。但對步行能力受損者卻非常困難，因此常藉由助
行器幫助行走。但目前傳統的純機械式助行器或學術研究的機電型助行器仍然有許多缺點，無法在靜
態及動態下同時兼具支撐的效果。其中大日方的助行器，以固定使用者與助行器距離的策略相當聰明，
但其固定身體的參考點與機構設計仍有缺失，因此本研究之目的為改善其缺點，研發具動態支撐性的
助行器，並進行臨床驗證。 
觀察使用者使用助行器發現，腳踝與助行器位置有某一相對的關係，因此固定使用者兩腳踝中心與助
行器間的距離為控制策略。另外透過動力傳動裝置與全向輪特性，使助行器有良好支撐性與轉彎效果。 
實驗結果顯示，本研究助行器在平地可承受最大前後水平推力為 58.3 牛頓，四輪助行器僅約 10 牛頓。
而在各種不同路面情況本研究助行器可提供最大推力為四輪助行器的 5~8 倍。而側向水平支撐力最大
也可達 84 牛頓。另外在轉彎測試，本研究助行器與四輪助行器使用者移動軌跡的內切圓直徑大致相同
約在 12~13.1 公分間。大幅改善大日方轉彎須側向移動問題。臨床驗證亦發現，目前似乎對於平衡能
力差的患者以四腳助行器距離控制模式有顯著省力效果。但對於能力佳的患者則無明顯幫助。 
關鍵詞：助行器、動態支撐性、助行輔具、超音波測距 
英文摘要 
Walking as a basic ability of human beings enables independent activities for individuals. For people with 
walking impairment, however, walking can be very difficult and often requires the use of walker. Most 
mechanical or mechanical-electrical walkers available today have come with various defects and failed to 
offer satisfactory movement support. The design strategy based on fixed distance between user and walker, as 
proposed by Goro, has a good potential for implementing an ideal walker, but it still had some problems in 
terms of reference points to the human body and its framework design. Consequently, the purpose of this 
research is to solve these problems by developing a walker with dynamic support functionality, to be followed 
by performing further clinical test to validate its applicability. 
In this study, a specific relationship was identified between human’s ankle and walker’s position. 
Consequently, the distance between ankle and walker was detected and then used to control walker movement. 
Furthermore, powered transmission device and omni-directional wheels were utilized to ensure sturdy support 
and good turn functionality. 
Results of experiments in this study indicated that the maximum of pushing forward force of this new walker 
was 58.3N, or 5-8 times as high as a 4-wheeled walker, and its pushing lateral force was up to 84N. In terms 
of turn functionality, the new walker had a radius range of 12-13.1 cm, which was same as that of the 
4-wheeled walker, thus indicating an improvement in turn functionality compared to Goro’s walker. Clinical 
verification also found a significant positive effect of effort saving  for patients with serious balance 
problems. 
關鍵詞：walker, dynamic support, walking aid, ultrasonic range finding 
2Furthermore, the system was very large and difficult to carry.
As the distance is referred to the user’s abdomen, it might
cause some problems. For instance, if the user leaned forward,
the walker would to move forward as well and cannot provide
support to the user. Another walker was developed by Angelo’s
team (2002)[9]. They applied the control strategy similar to
Goro’s. Unlike Goro’s walker whose direction is changed by
the user’s manual force, Angelo’s walker will change direction
automatically according to the user’s lateral movement. This
method is unnatural for the user; even worse is that it cannot
provide lateral support in case the user falls aside. The
walker designed by Oscar (2005)[10] utilized another control
approach. They detected user’s exerting force on the hand and
change the walker’s movement accordingly. In other words, the
walker will move away when the user need horizontal force
support unless the user exerts large download force beforehand
to lock the walker from moving. Therefore, this walker can
bear pushing forces when its stationary, but cannot provide
any support to the user when moving. Yet another walker
designed by Yang (2004)[11] cannot move itself. It equipped
with dampers and electromagnetic brake in the rear-wheel.
When the walker’s velocity or acceleration exceeds a preset
value, the braking system will active to prevent from running
away. As to the damper whose friction is adjustable, it is used
to the horizontal resistance all the time. This seems not a good
way in terms of energy consumption, since the user must spent
extra effort to overcome the friction force from the damping
to move forwards.
Goro and Angelo’s strategy of maintaining the distance
between the walker and its user inherits good properties from
the viewpoint of providing dynamic support, but the physical
construction of their walkers still bear some limitation, such as
the heavy weight, some unnatural maneuver to turn the walker
to different directions, lack of lateral horizontal support, and
unable to support leaning. This paper presents our attempts to
address these issues.
II. METHODOLOGY
A. Principle of system operation
We believed that in terms of user’s needs, an ideal walker
should provide immediate support whenever its user needed
and it should be an easy-using device. We envisioned an ideal
walker with following features: (1) Provide dynamic support:
whenever the user is walking or standing, a walker should
provide a relatively stable support for the user to recovery
from losing balance or when his/her lower limbs become
instability. (2) Few or no effort for usage: users don’t need to
make extra much effort to move and change direction of the
walker. (3) User-friendly: the movement speed and direction
can be controlled by user subconsciously, so he/she doesn’t
need special training or change original gait.
Basicly our system concept follows Goro’s idea, but we used
the middle point between both feet as the control parameter
to move the wheeled walker. It could meet the following
requirements in this approach. The user could move the
wheeled walker without applying any force. The walker would
only move as the distance change even when handle force
Figure 1. System framework
applied. In case the user leans forward/backward, as his feet
are stationary, the walker will not move and provide support to
the user. Further more, as the walker equipped with power, it
didn’t required the user to spend extra effort to operate uphill
and downhill.
B. System framework
The new type wheeled walker could be divided into five
major subsystem in the system framework. As shown in
figure1.
1. Sensor system: Ultrasonic range finders were used in
detecting the distance between user and walker. Two ultra-
sound transmitters were tied on the user’s both feet, and two
ultrasonic receivers were separately attach to the walker. The
time difference between the transmitters and the receivers was
used to calculate the distance between the user and walker.
2. Motor and transmission system: Stepper motor and motor
driver were included in the motor system. The transmission
system was composed of reduction gear train and omnidirec-
tional.
3. Support frame system: The support frame was a com-
merical four-wheeled walker from the market. It could provide
users with hand support in need.
4. Control system: PSoC microcontroller from Cypress was
used to acquire the distance data, and produce the motor
control signal.
5. Power system: The power system was equipped to
provide stable power for other systems.
C. Distance control strategy
The control strategy may influence the new type wheeled
walker’s performance obviously. The system was designed to
moved with user’s feet in the real time. In this control strategy.
As the figure 3 showed the speed controlling process. The
walker would keep stay in the range of dead band which
was the distance from 33cm to 35cm between the walker and
user. When the user stepped forward or backward, the distance
would be out of the dead band range, thus the speed of the
walker would change as the simple P control until that the
speed limit was reached. The purpose of the speed limiter was
to prevent stepper motor out of steps. This control strategy
were complied in the microcontroller.
4Figure 5. Automatically follow test
walking, the walker can remain in the setting distance. (35-
40cm).However, the motor equipped on the walker could not
provide enough torque because of financial constraints, The
walker would be pushed away, but still return to the setting
distance (40cm) after the disappearance of the pushing force,
and continue to automatically follow.
In the automatically following test, the new system could
keep in constant distance between the user and walker. Even
if the stepper motor out of steps because the larger pushing
force, the system would return to the setting distance after the
pushing force withdrew.
C. Uphill&downhill
We built the woodblock ramp in our laboratory (according
to handicap ramp regulations in Taiwan, the ramp ratio is
1:12) for testing. The results showed that although the system
can automatically follow on the ramp. However, the omnidi-
rectional wheel was slided along the ramp but not revolved
itself while we give a pushing force. for the reason. we
thought that the friction between the omnidirectional wheels
and woodblock ramp is too small to withstand the pushing
force.
In the future study, we will equip the wheels with appro-
priate friction force. Therefore, the system will operate stably
on the ramp.
D. Change direction
In order to test the turning mobility of the new type walker,
this study tested turning 90 degree to compared the new type
walkers with and four-wheel walker. The results was shown in
figure6 and 7. The markers moving path setting on the user’s
abdomen was represented in the blue line and setting on the
walker ’s anterior foot was represented in the red and green
line. the dashed circle diameter indicate the minimum of the
turning range. The minimum circle diameter of the new type
walker is about 13.1 cm and that of the wheeled walker is
about 12.4 cm. The turning mobility of the new type walker
was the same with the wheeled walker.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
In this research, we designed a mechtronic walker using a
different control strategy that maintain the distance between
user’s feet and walker. This walker provided horizontal support
Figure 6. The superior view of the moving path of the new type walker and
user
Figure 7. The superior view of the moving path of wheeled walker and user
force was about 75N, but it needed 100N horizontal force to
prevent from falling. Although the torque of the stepper motor
was not enough, it still provided ten times greater force than
that four wheeled walker provided.
In the automatically following test, this walker could keep
in constant distance between the user and walker. Even if the
stepper motor out of steps because the larger pushing force, the
system would return to the setting distance after the pushing
force withdrew.
In the ramp test, the system slid down because the ground
friction force was not enough that the wheels of the walker
glide downward.
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
□ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
附件二 
 3
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
日期： 99 年 10 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：具動態穩定性及操作性之助行輔具研發 
計畫主持人：游忠煌 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－E－010－008  領域：工程處 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）無 
（英文）無 
成果歸屬機構 無 發明人 (創作人) 
無 
技術說明 
（中文） 
無 
 
 
（200-500 字） 
（英文）無 
產業別 
無 
技術/產品應用範圍 
無 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
無 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 
 
附件三 
 5
學與新瀉大學的副教授。相信日後會更緊密的合作與交流。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 無 
四、建議 
Controller Design for Embedded Systems – a Case Study for Mechatronical and 
Mobile Systems，主要是德國一間學校 Ilmenau Univ. of Tech 的研究，他們嘗試
結合 modeling 與/或分散式控制的優點並實作驗証。有些得到不錯的結果，有些仍
存在瑕疪。但是他們仔細研究認真實作的精神與扎實的訓練實在值得台灣的教育界
學習。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次 MSC2010 會議為期三天(2010/09/08~2010/08/10)，每一天都會有一位知名學者
做主題報告，另外也會有主辦單位特別邀請的學者進行演講，以及大會安排好的各
種口頭報告，分別在各個會議廳同時進行；我們發表學術文章的時間是在會議的第
三天(2010/09/10)下年，屬於 Robust Control II 的 session。 
除了 Plenary session 每天有 10 個 track，包括純理論、軟體設計工具、硬體機電
系統應用、模型預測、系統識別、綠能應用、能源控制、汽車應用等等。其中與本
研究最相關的 session 是 Controller Design for Embedded Systems – a Case Study 
for Mechatronical and Mobile Systems，在此 session 裏的 paper，主要是德國
一間學校 Ilmenau Univ. of Tech 的研究，他們嘗試結合 modeling 與/或分散式控
制的優點並實作驗証。有些得到不錯的結果，有些仍存在瑕疪。但是他們仔細研究
認真實作的精神與扎實的訓練實在值得台灣的教育界學習。由於大部分是由研究生
報告，重點的掌握不是很好。但是 Model-based Control Design of the Compliant 
 1
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 □成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
具動態穩定性及操作性之助行輔具研發 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 98－2221－E－010－008 
執行期間：  2009 年 08 月 01 日至 2010 年 10 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立陽明大學 物理治療暨輔助科技研究所 
 
計畫主持人：游忠煌 
共同主持人：蔚順華 王富正 陳振昇 
計畫參與人員：吳孝觀 鄭穎淳 陳威穎 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國   99 年 10 月 31 日 
 
1Development of Intelligent walker with Dynamic
Support
H-K Wu1, C-W Chien1,Y-C Jheng1, C-H Chen1, H-R Chen2, C-H Yu1
1Department of Physical Therapy and Assistive Technology, National Yang Ming University, Taiwan
2Department of Computer Science & Information Engineering, National Central University, Taiwan
Abstract—Walking as a basic ability of human beings enables
independent activities for individuals. For people with walking
disability, however, walking can be very difficult and often
requires a walker. Most mechanical or mechanical-electrical
walkers available today have come with various defects and failed
to offer satisfactory movement support. The strategy to maintain
a constant distance between user and walker, as proposed by
Goro, has a good potential for implementing an ideal walker,
but it still had some problems in terms of reference points to the
human body and its framework design. Thus, the purpose of this
research is to solve these problems by developing a walker with
dynamic support and furthermore verify its clinical applicability.
In this study, a specific relationship between human’s ankle
and walker’s position was identified. Consequently, the distance
between ankle and walker was detected and then used to control
walker movement. In addition, powered transmission device and
omni-directional wheels were utilized to ensure sturdy support
and good turn functionality. Results of experiments in this study
indicated that the maximal force of pushing forward of this new
walker was 58.3N, or 5-8 times as high as a 4-wheeled walker,
and its lateral pushing force was up to 84N. In terms of turn
functionality, the new walker had a radial range of 12-13.1 cm,
which was the same as that of the 4-wheeled walker, and there
was an improvement in turns of functionality compared to Goro’s
walker.
Index Terms—walker, dynamic support, walking aid, ultrasonic
range finding
I. INTRODUCTION
INDEPENDENT mobility plays an important role in livingstandards, physical and psychological health, working and
learning, and interpersonal relationship. However, some peo-
ple need walkers to ambulate independently. Those patients
with lower extremity disability often use walker for reducing
weight bearing on lower extremities[1]. For patients with poor
balance, walking aids can increase the users’ base of support
(BOS) which is the area surrounded by feet and walker and
maintain the body balance[2]. These are the basic concepts that
walkers can be walking aids. The investigation of the United
States shows the relationship between the walking aid and
injury epidemiological investigation, the people using walking
aids had increased by 96% during 1980 to 1990, and the
number of injuries had increased by 98% during 1987 to 1992.
It suggests that the incidence of injuries increased higher than
the number of users increased. In other words, the more often
a walker is used, the more accidents caused may occur.[4].
This provokes a question whether the walkers used are really
safe and we should do more research about walker in order to
increase the safety in using.
As mentioned above, it is believed that walkers can provide
two major functions: (1) reducing the loading of lower limbs
[1], and (2) increasing the base of support[2]. We were
wondering whether it is true for all different types of walker for
the full gait cycle. The followings were the discussions about
traditional walkers, including standard walker, four-wheeled
walker, and front wheeled walker. Generally, standard walkers
had high stability, but users need to pick it up and put it
down for progressing along. which would lead to higher falling
risk and slower moving speed. Four-wheeled walkers seemed
provide large base of support and few energy consumption
for progressing, but it was unable to withstand thrust force
from the user. As to front-wheeled walkers, it was suggested
for those who can’t lift the walker to move forward and need
stable support. When the user wants to move forwards, he/she
needs to slightly lift the walker; when he/she needs stationary
stable support, downward forces were required from the user.
Apparently, this kind of maneuver required high level ability
of force control. In addition, it was reported that it is hard to
use on a carpet[3], [5], [6], [7].
In addition to the observed problems, it can provide insight
by further analyzing the kinetic interaction between a walker
and its user. Standard walkers can withstand anterior-posterior
and lateral horizontal force to some extend, and large vertical
force when it was steadily on the ground. When a standard
walker is lifted off the ground, it it provids no function at all
and becomes the extra loading to the lower extremities. Four-
wheeled walkers are easily to move forwards, but at the same
time it can only provide very little anterior-posterior support
which may be essential to prevent its user from falling. As to
front-wheeled walker, to move it forward, the use must reduce
the vertical download force and increase the horizontal force
to overcome the ground friction force. In this sense, it cause
extra energy consumption from the user.
Because the above mentioned pure mechanical walkers ex-
hibit many limitations, some researchers applied mechatronic
technologies and tried to lift the limitations. The walker de-
signed by Goro (2000)[8] equipped with a sensor that detects
the distance between the walker and the user’s abdomen, and
the walker is driven by a motor to maintain a preset distance.
This control strategy might withstood user’s horizontal thrust
no matter when stationary or moving. However, due to their
physical contruction, the walker cannot provide lateral support.
3Table I
THE COMPARISON OF MECHANICAL WALKERS
Walker type Operational characteristic Standing with support Walking with support
Standard walker Difficult operation; danger may occur while picking up the walker Provide stable support No support
wheel and foot walker Difficult operation; effortless than standard walker Provide stable support
all wheel walker Effortless; similar to normal gait No horizontal support No horizontal support
Table II
THE COMPARISON OF MECHATRONIC WALKERS
Walker type Operational characteristic Standing with support Walking with support
Goro, 2000[8] Effortless; walker follow user automatically No sideward support No sideward support
Angelo, 2002[9] Effortless; walker follow user automatically Sideward support not enough Sideward support not enough
Oscar, 2005[10] Turning available Only vertical support Only vertical support
Yang, 2004[11] Light weight Horizontal support not enough Horizontal support not enough
Figure 2. New mechatronic walker appearance
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
A. Support force
The six axis force transducer was used to measurement the
force which we thrust at the walker and increased the effort
slowly until the walker was pushed away. Test result showed
in figure 4. Traditional wheeled walker could withstand the
horizontal thrust only 7.9N even given downward pressure.
The new type wheeled walker could withstand the horizontal
thrust up to 75N, in other words, the pushing force that the
new type wheeled walker withstood was 10 times larger than
that the traditional wheeled walker withstood. Although the
test result showed that the new type wheeled walker withstood
more horizontal force than the traditional one. Figure 4 also
showed a ideally stable support in blue line, the stable support
must provided at least 100N support force to maintain user’s
balance. Therefore, the new type wheeled walker still needs
Figure 3. Control rule
Figure 4. Horizontal support force test
further improvement to achieve better protection and stabi-
lization. In order to sustain the idea operational condition, we
would increase the motor torque to 100N in future research.
B. Automatically follow
We observed the relative distance between user and the new
type wheeled walker, as shown in Figure 5. During normal
5REFERENCES
[1] Hamid Bateni, PhD, Brain E. Maki, PhD.”Assistive Devices for balance
and mobility:Benefits, Demands, and adverse Consequences” Arch Phys
Med Rehabil. 2005, vol.86:134-145.
[2] Fast A, W.F., Adrezin RS, Cordaro MA, Ramis J, Sosner J., The
instrumented walker: usage patterns and forces. Arch Phys Med Rehabil,
1995. 76: p. 484-491.
[3] Mann WC, G.C., Hurren D, Tomita M, Charvat B, An analysis of
problems with walkers encountered by elderly persons. Phys Occup Ther
Geriatr, 1995. 13: p. 1-23.
[4] Charron, P.M., R. L. Kirby, and D. A. MacLeod, Epidemiology of
walker-related injuries and deaths in the United States. Am.J.Phys. Med.
Rehabil, 1995. 74(3): p. 237-39.
[5] VanHook FW, D.D., Weiss BD, Ambulatory devices for chronic gait
disorders in the elderly. Am Fam Physician, 2003. 67: p. 1717-1724.
[6] AARP Walker Product Report. Product Comparison and Evaluation:
Canes, Crutches and Walkers. 1990, Rehabilitation Engineering Center
at the National Rehabilitation Hospital: Washington DC.
[7] Tideiksaar, R., Mahoney J, Euhardy R, Carnes M, A comparison
of a two-wheeled walker and a three-wheeled walker in a geriatric
population. J Am Geriatr Soc, 1992. 40: p. 208-212.
[8] Kazuto, T., Goro, et al “Evaluation of the Gait of Elderly People Using
an Assisting Cart” The Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers.Vol.43,
NO.4, 2000
[9] Angelo M. Sabatini, V. Genovese, E. Pacchierotti, “Mobility Aid for
the Support to Walking and Object Transportation of People with Motor
Impairments”, Proc. of IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent
Robots and Systems, pp.1349-1354, 2002.
[10] Oscar Chuy Jr., Yasuhisa Hirata, Zhidong Wang , and Kazuhiro Kosuge.
” Motion Control Algorithms for a New Intelligent Robotic Walker
in Emulating Ambulatory Device Function.” Proceedings of the IEEE
International Conference on Mechatronics & Automation, pp.1509-1514,
2005
[11] Yang, H.H.“Design and clinical assessment of a rollator with assistive
brake control for the severely disabled ”,Master Thesis of Institute of
Biomedical Engineering National Taiwan University
[12] Pardo, R. D., A. B. Deathe, and D. A. Winter. "Walker user
risk index. A method for quantifying stability in walker users."
Am.J.Phys.Med.Rehabil. 72.5 (1993): 301-05.
 2
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本研究經實測發現其確實可以在各種不同的使用情境下，自動跟隨使用者；
且在特意給予推力讓其前移時，仍可以自動回到設定位置繼續進行跟隨。另
外，不論在動態或靜態下，本研究之助行器在面對不同方向的推力時，均能
夠提供一定的支撐力給使用者，相較於傳統輪式助行器所能提供的支撐力高
出 5-8 倍。 
在臨床的測試上也發現，本研究之助行器對於平衡能力較差的使用者，不論
是生理耗能指數或是使用者的疲勞自覺量表都較傳統的助行器改善許多。但
是對於能力較佳的使用者；因為目前的控制模式，乃是專門針對平衡能力較
差的使用者所設計，所以能力較佳者反而必須改變自己的習慣來配合助行器
的移動。如此一來，反而造成了使用者能力的下降。 
最後，我們認為，此研究結果代表著此研究的構想是可行的。其改善了目前
產、學界上所見到的各種助行器的大部分問題；而本研究的控制策略，在目
前學界上亦是少有人提出及應用的。此次研究的成功，相信將可以讓產、學
界未來在控制策略的選擇上，多一種不同的思考面向。雖然，目前發現系統
上仍有許多問題需要改進；但是，相信只要給予我們足夠的時間及經費支持，
我們將可以藉由此成果再進一步的進行研究與改善，以求能夠真正的符合不
同使用者的需求。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 99 年 10 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
本次出國的目的，主要是為了在參加 2010 IEEE Multi-Conference on Systems and 
Control 的會議，發表學術文章，以及學習各種最新的科技與技術的發展並且交流。
MSC2010 會議邀請各國學者，對於控制應用於各種産業提出最新的研究發展成果以及
討論。 
二、與會心得 
此次 MSC2010 會議，可能收的 paper 太多了，而且沒有 poster session，所以有些
paper 的 quality 並不是很好。而且 session 太多，共有 10 個 track，有些有興趣
的 paper 分於不同 track 卻同時報告，無法同時兼顧有點可惜。此次最大的收獲是
認識了京都大學與慶應大學的教授並談及合作與交換學生的計畫，還有幾位東京大
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－010－008 
計畫名稱 具動態穩定性及操作性之助行輔具研發 
出國人員
姓名 游忠煌 助理教授 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立陽明大學  
物理治療暨輔助科技學系 
會議時間 99 年 9 月 8 日至  99年 9月 10日 會議地點 Yokohama, Japan 
會議名稱 2010 IEEE Multi-Conference on Systems and Control (MSC2010) 
發表論文
題目  Multivariable Robust Control of a Gait Trainer 
附件四 
 6
Robot Arm “AirArm”這篇是由教授報告，受益良多。 
另外，最後一天的最後一個 session “Modeling, Estimation and Applications in 
Neuroscience: Brain Machine Interfaces” ，雖然只有兩篇 paper(一篇由韓國、
一篇由浙江大學發表)，也很趣。不過由其研究來看，直接人腦控機器還投注非常非
常多的人力、財力、時間，才可能有突破性進展。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：游忠煌 計畫編號：98-2221-E-010-008- 
計畫名稱：具動態穩定性及操作性之助行輔具研發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
