In the third year of this integrated project, study 
methods and achievements of the four subprojects are 
described as follows. 
 
II. Achievement of Each Subproject 
The First Subproject: Mechanism Design for the 
Two-Wheel Transporter 
The objective of this subproject is to develop a 
user-friendly and easily operational mechanism for the 
two-wheel transporter. The research work includes the 
mechanical components design and manufacturing, 
structure analysis, selection of electrical motor, driver 
and battery, and electromechanical system integration. 
The extrusive aluminum alloy (Al-alloy) is used to be 
the frame for the transporter and the Al-alloy slabs are 
designed base on modulus purposes for the flexible 
space consideration. It is easy to adjust the frame space 
for the different experimental applications for other 
subprojects. The forward and backward motions of the 
transporter are depended on the position of the center 
of gravity (COG) of the transporter. So, an adjustable 
mechanism is designed to change the COG position of 
the transporter by a remote controller. The COG is 
changed by controlling the position of the steel block 
on the conveyor in order to simulate the real operating 
behavior of human beings on the transporter. The major 
contribution of this subproject is the new flexible 
structure design for the two-wheel transporter. It is able 
to simulate the real operating behaviors of human 
beings by controlling weight and COG position of the 
variable load device in the mechanism. The 
experimental results show the excellent performance of 
the transporter system. 
 
The Second Subproject: Power System Design for 
the Two-Wheel Transporter 
This subproject studies a rapid charger for the 
sealed lead-acid battery of the two-wheel transporter. It 
includes an energy recovery stage which can save 
energy instead of conventional one which uses constant 
resistance to discharge the batteries. The efficiency of 
conversion is up to 85% and power factor is up to 0.99. 
Moreover, this subproject proposes a novel fuzzy 
state-of-charge (SOC) estimator that uses normalized 
parameter and open circuit voltage to estimate SOC of 
the batteries accurately. During the final charging, the 
proposed SOC estimation can avoid a situation of 
undercharge or overcharge; note that the overcharge 
will damage lifetime of the battery. The charging 
control and the SOC estimation are based on fuzzy 
theorem, implemented by a digital signal controller 
(dsPIC30F6010). The SOC of battery is estimated 
while the system is charging on-line and the estimated 
error is maintained within an acceptable range (±5%). 
The thermal rise can also be limited less than 8°C to 
avoid the damages of the sealed lead-acid battery. 
Finally, some experiments on the two-wheel transporter 
are provided. It is seen that the feasibility of the 
proposed SOC estimation and the performance of the 
charging system are satisfied by the users. 
 
The Third Subproject: Design and Implement of the 
Self-dynamic Control for the Humanistic Two 
Wheel Transporter 
In this subproject, the main purpose is to develop 
a self-dynamic balancing and motion control strategy. 
In order to imitate the ability of humanistic behaviors, 
a fuzzy control algorithm has been proposed. Based on 
SoPC (System on a programmable chip) system, an 
intelligent two-wheel transporter is demonstrated. 
Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed control 
system is verified by the experiments of the two-wheel 
transporter motion control with uncertainty 
disturbance. 
 
The Fourth Subproject: Signal Processing for the 
Humanistic Two-Wheel Transporter
Based on the experience and result of the previous 
 2
行政院國家科學委員會補助學者參與國際學術學會會議報告 
 
                                             96 年 7 月 31 日 
 
報告人姓名 
 
王文俊 
 
 
服務機構 
 
國立台北科技大學 
國立中央大學電機系 
 
 
職稱 
 
教授 
中文： 第十二屆模糊理論與技術國際研討會 
 
會議正式名
稱 英文： 12th International Conference on Fuzzy Theory & Technology, 2007  
會議時間 
 
自 96 年 7 月 18 日至 
96 年 7 月 24 日 地點（國、州、城市） 
 
美國猶他州，鹽湖城
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
三、 考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
 
四、 建議事項 
 
五、 其他 
 
 
 
