 II
 
目錄 
 
報告內容 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
摘要 ------------------------------------------------------------- 1 
一、前言及文獻探討  ------------------------------------------------------------- 2 
二、研究方法  ------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
三、結果與討論  ------------------------------------------------------------- 6 
四、研究結論  ------------------------------------------------------------- 14 
參考文獻 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 14 
計畫成果自評 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 15 
    
 
 
 
 2 
 
一、前言及文獻探討    
  The development of nonfouling surface is 
a significant need for biomedical applications as 
blood-contacting materials used as 
antithrombogenic implants, hemodialysis 
membranes, drug delivery carriers, and 
biosensors.1-7 However, only a very limited 
number of synthesized biomaterials are regarded 
as good blood compatible candidates. For 
example, for those surfaces in contact with blood, 
even 10 ng/cm2 of adsorbed fibrinogen may 
introduce a full-scale blood platelet adhesion, 
and then lead to thrombosis and embolism at the 
blood contact side of material surfaces from the 
blood stream.8, 9 A good non-specific plasma 
protein resistance is one of the important 
requirements for blood-contacting materials. 
When a plasma protein approaches an interface, 
electrical neutrality may be important in 
minimizing the electrostatic interactions, and the 
absence of hydrogen bond donors may be 
important in minimizing the hydrogen bonding 
interactions. For many nonfouling materials or 
superlow biofouling materials, the general 
properties of the functional groups on these 
surfaces are hydrophilic, electrically neutral, 
hydrogen bond acceptors, and not hydrogen 
bond donors. Two common types of polymeric 
segments, nonionic poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) 
and zwitterionic betaine polymers, have been 
extensively employed for surface grafting to 
create nonfouling surfaces. PEG-based materials 
are most commonly used as synthetic surfaces 
for resisting protein adsorption.10, 11 However, it 
has been recognized that PEG decomposes in the 
presence of oxygen and transition metal ions 
found in most biochemically relevant 
solutions.12-14 Whereas, PEG exhibits an 
excellent nonfouling capability, but it faces the 
problem of blood compatibility and stability.5, 15  
An important characteristic of zwitterionic 
structure is the fact that they have both a 
positively and a negatively charged moiety 
within the same segment side chain, while 
maintaining overall charge neutrality. In recent 
years, zwitterionic polymers containing the 
pendant groups of phosphobetaine, sulfobetaine, 
and carboxybetaine have received growing 
attention for use in the new generation of 
blood-contacting materials because of their good 
plasma protein resistance.3, 5, 16-22 Jiang and 
co-workers showed that the surfaces grafted 
zwitterionic polymers are ideal for resisting 
non-specific protein adsorption when the surface 
density and chain length of zwitterionic groups is 
controlled. It was reported that the surfaces 
grafted with zwitterionic polymers provided 
excellent property for antithrombogenic response. 
Poly(sulfobetaine methacrylate) (polySBMA) 
with a methacrylate main chain and an analogue 
of the taurine betaine pendent group 
(CH2CH2N+(CH3)2CH2CH2CH2SO3
-) has 
become the most widely studied zwitterionic 
polymer due to its ease in synthetic 
preparation.17, 18 Our previous work reported that 
zwitterionic polySBMA is an effective and stable 
nonfouling material to provide a surface for uses 
in human blood and implants. 19, 20, 22  
To further develop a potential nonfouling 
material for biomedical applications, especially 
in human blood contacting, we were inspired to 
make efforts to study a polyampholyte system 
with zwitterionic-like structure carrying both 
mixed positively and negatively charged 
moieties. Recently, it was reported that 
nonfouling surfaces with homogenous charge 
 4 
 
evaporation under vacuum. Before SAM 
preparation, the gold-coated substrate was 
cleaned by washing with pure ethanol and 
distilled water in sequence, dried with N2, then 
left in an UV light cleaner for 20 min at the 
source power of 110 W, followed by rinsing with 
distilled water and ethanol, and finally dried by 
N2. For the preparation of an initiator SAM on a 
gold surface, the cleaned chip was soaked in a 2 
mM ethanol solution of -mercaptoundecyl 
bromoisobutyrate for 24 h to form Br-SAMs on 
the gold surface, and the chip was rinsed with 
pure ethanol followed by THF and then dried in 
a stream of N2. For preparation of CH3- or 
OEG-SAMs, the cleaned chip was soaked in a 2 
mM ethanol solution of 1-undecanethiol or 
(1-Mercapto-11-undecyl) tetra(ethylene glycol) 
thiols for 24 h to form SAMs on the gold surface, 
and the chip was rinsed in sequence with ethanol 
and water, and then dried in a stream of N2.  
Preparation of Homopolymer Brushes. Three 
well-packed homopolymer brushes of polyTMA, 
polySA, and polySBMA on SPR glass chips and 
Si wafers were achieved via the surface-initiated 
atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP) 
method, which were prepared the following 
method reported previously.20, 24, 25 These 
homopolymer brushes were polymerized on the 
gold substrates with immobilized initiators of 
Br-SAMs based on our previous reports. The 
reaction solution of CuBr and BPY were first 
placed in a sealed glass reactor in a dry box 
under nitrogen atmosphere. A 400 mM of 
degassed solution (pure water and methanol in a 
1:3 volume ratio, 48hr) with monomers was 
transferred to the reactor and the gold surface 
with immobilized initiators was then placed in 
the reactor under nitrogen. After polymerization, 
the substrate was removed and rinsed with 
ethanol and water, and the samples were kept in 
water overnight. The prepared substrates were 
usually rinsed with PBS buffer to remove 
unbound polymers before any experiments. The 
thickness of the substrates was measured by 
ellipsometry. The thickness of the polymer film 
was controlled with a similar range of about 30 
to 45 nm. The details about polySBMA film 
thickness as a function of polymerization time 
for different SBMA concentrations was already 
reported in the previous works.25 
Preparation of Mix-charged Copolymer 
Brushes. Surface-initiated ATRP was used to 
prepare mix-charged poly(TMA-co-SA) on the 
gold substrates with immobilized initiators of 
Br-SAMs. The reaction solution of CuBr and 
BPY were first placed in a sealed glass reactor in 
a dry box under nitrogen protection. A degassed 
solution (pure water and methanol in a 1:3 
volume ratio) with monomer mixture in a 1:1 
TMA:SA molar ratio was transferred to the 
reactor and the gold surface with immobilized 
initiators was then placed in the reactor under 
nitrogen. A similar poly(TMA-co-SA) thickness 
of 30-45 nm was controlled with a range of 
0.4-1.2 M total monomer concentration and a 
reaction time of 1-36 hr, as listed in Table 1. 
After polymerization, the substrates were 
removed from the reactor, rinsed with ethanol 
and water, and immersed in phosphate buffered 
solution (PBS) at 45oC overnight to remove 
unreacted monomers and unbound copolymers 
before any analysis.  
Surface Characterization of Polymer Brushes. 
The surface composition of the grafted polymer 
brushes was also characterized by X-Ray 
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). XPS analysis 
was performed using a PHI Quantera 
 6 
 
50% v/v PBS, 25% v/v PBS, 5% v/v PBS, and 
0% v/v PBS for 20 min in each step and dried in 
air. Finally, the samples were sputter-coated with 
gold prior to observation under JEOL JSM-5410 
SEM operating at 7 keV. The morphology of 
adhering blood cells on the substrates was 
observed from scanning electron microscopy 
(SEM) images at a 1000 magnification from five 
different places on the same chip. 
 
三、結果與討論    
In this present work, four well-packed 
grafted surfaces with homopolymer brushes 
(polyTMA, polySA, and polySBMA) and 
mix-charged copolymer brush 
(poly(TMA-co-SA)) were prepared via 
surface-initiated ATRP, and two monolayer 
surfaces with CH3- and OEG-SAMs were 
achieved by self-assembly method, as shown in 
Figure 1.  
 
Figure 1. Chemical structures of gold surface 
with (a) polymer brushes of polyTMA, polySA 
and polySBMA, (b) mix-charged copolymer 
brushes of poly(TMA-co-SA), and (c) CH3- and 
OEG-SAMs. 
To control the similar grafting quality of the 
chain length and surface density, all polymer 
brushes were controlled with a similar range of 
film thickness from 30 to 45 nm, as measured by 
ellipsometry. The chemical composition of the 
poly(TMA-co-SA) copolymer brushes was 
determined by XPS and shown in Table 1. SPR 
was used to estimate their nonfouling property of 
the resistance to plasma protein adsorption, 
compared with CH3- and OEG-SAMs as 
references. When new protein-resistant surfaces 
are judged, it is generally acceptable that 
CH3-SAMs presenting hydrophobic methyl 
groups usually induce large amount of protein 
adsorption and SAM surface terminated with 
OEG ((EG)nOH, n=4) groups is used as standard 
against protein adsorption. Zwitterionic surface 
grafted with polySBMA is also used as ideal 
against plasma protein adsorption based on the 
previous reports.17, 20, 22, 25  
 
Effects of Mixed Charge Distribution in the 
Poly(TMA-co-SA) on Non-specific Protein 
Adsorption  
An important characteristic of zwitterionic 
polymer brushes for resisting non-specific 
protein adsorption is due to the fact of 
maintaining overall charge neutrality within the 
same segment side chain structure of a positively 
and negatively charged moiety. Therefore, it is a 
critical consideration to control the charge 
distribution in the poly(TMA-co-SA) copolymer 
brushes composed of two mixed charge 
components from positively charged monomer of 
 8 
 
summarized in Figure 3. We observed significant 
reduction in adsorption of proteins on all 
prepared poly(TMA-co-SA) copolymer brushes 
than that on surfaces of CH3-SAMs. However, 
there are still significant -globulin and 
fibrinogen adsorption, and limited HSA 
adsorption to the copolymer brushes of 
poly(TMA-co-SA)#1-3. On the basis of the XPS 
analysis in Table 1, it can be seen that these 
reaction conditions result in the formation of 
poly(TMA-co-SA)#1-3 that have an N/S ratio of 
1.08, 0.85 and 0.96 for the monomer 
concentrations of 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8 M, 
respectively. The results indicate that even a 
slight surface charge can induce in the 
electrostatic interactions between proteins and 
surfaces, and lead to surface adsorption of 
proteins.  
On the basis of the reaction kinetics, 
reaction rate of polymerization is usually 
proportional to the monomer concentration in the 
reaction solution. In Figure 3, it can be seen that 
the copolymer surfaces of poly(TMA-co-SA)#4 
with N/S ratio of 0.99, prepared from a high 
monomer concentration of 1.2 M and a short 
reaction time of 1 hr, reduced the single protein 
adsorption to a level comparable with the 
adsorption on the surfaces with OEG-SAMs and 
polySBMA homopolymer brushes. The adsorbed 
amounts of each tested protein on 
poly(TMA-co-SA)#4 surfaces are found to be 
less than 2.5 ng/cm2 at 25 oC. The increasing 
total amount of TMA and SA monomers in the 
reaction solution promoted the charge neutrality 
of poly(TMA-co-SA) in the prepared copolymer 
brushes with a equal distribution of mixed 
charged groups. These results indicate that the 
increase of polymerization rate might reduce 
reaction selectivity for different charged 
monomers and readily form a nonfouling 
statistical copolymer brush of poly(TMA-co-SA) 
from TMA and SA monomers. It was also found 
that the increased charge neutrality of 
poly(TMA-co-SA) makes its copolymer surface 
more hydrophilic due to the decrease of water 
contact angle, indicating the formation of a 
strong hydration layer from the zwitterionic pairs 
of positively charged TMA and negatively 
charged SA in a 1:1 ratio. These results strongly 
support the hypothesis that hydrated surfaces 
with overall charge neutrality formed from 
mixed charge components can present 
nonfouling characteristics for resisting 
non-specific protein adsorption.   
 
Figure 3. Adsorption of 1 mg/mL HSA, 
-globulin, and fibrinogen respectively in PBS 
buffer and water contact angle on 
poly(TMA-co-SA)#1, poly(TMA-co-SA)#2, 
poly(TMA-co-SA)#3, and poly(TMA-co-SA)#4 
grafted surfaces at 23oC. The wavelength shift of 
1 nm in SPR is equivalent to 0.15 mg/m2 
adsorbed proteins. 
 
Protein Adsorption Characteristics for 
Statistical Copolymer Brushes of 
Poly(TMA-co-SA) with Overall Charge 
Neutrality 
 10 
 
These results show that the variation of solution 
pH may affect the single protein adsorption to 
poly(TMA-co-SA) surface. The increase in the 
amount of proteins adsorbed to 
poly(TMA-co-SA) surface was observed as pH 
below 5.0, which is similar to the results for 
polySBMA brushes reported in our previous 
work.20 It was shown that proteins would have 
denatured structures and cause protein-protein 
interactions resulting in the formation of a denser 
packing or multilayer of protein adsorption at 
lower pH.28, 29 From the contact angle 
measurement with pH value from 7.4 to 3.0, it 
was found that the poly(TMA-co-SA) surface 
keeps a low contact angle from 25.6o1.1o to 
13.4o1o. That means the poly(TMA-co-SA) 
brushes display a highly hydrophilic surface at 
low pH. It indicates that the protein adsorption at 
low pH might not be due to the attribution of 
hydrophobic interaction between proteins and 
poly(TMA-co-SA) surface. The results reflect 
the electrostatic dipoles at the 
protein-poly(TMA-co-SA) interface might be the 
major attribution of the significant increase in 
protein adsorption. In general, it is commonly 
observed that the conformation change of 
denatured proteins is formed in acid medium, 
which is induced by the electrostatic repulsion 
from the positively charged patches inside the 
proteins at lower pH. These denatured structures 
of the proteins might enhance the electrostatic 
interaction to poly(TMA-co-SA) surface. It is 
important to note that the net charge inside the 
protein becomes less positive at higher pH. 
Therefore, proteins will tend to be less 
electrostatic attracted to poly(TMA-co-SA) 
surface as the pH increases with the results 
shown in Figure 5.   
 
 
Figure 6. Human fibrinogen adsorption as a 
function of ionic strengths from SPR on surfaces 
grafted with (a) poly(TMA-co-SA), and (b) 
polySBMA. The wavelength shift of 1 nm in 
SPR is equivalent to 0.15 mg/m2 adsorbed 
proteins. 
 
Three types of ionic salt (NaCl, KCl and 
NH4Cl) were used in this work and the ionic 
strength of buffer medium was adjusted by 
dissolving salt into phosphate buffer with an 
ionic strength of 10 mM (potassium phosphate 
4.4 mM and pH 7.4) in the salt concentration 
range from 0.0M to 1.0M. The effects of the 
ionic strength of the protein solution on the 
amount of protein adsorbed to the surfaces with 
neutral mix-charged poly(TMA-co-SA) 
 12 
 
resulting in obvious reduction of protein 
adsorption. It also indicates that polymeric 
chains of poly(TMA-co-SA) tend to expand in 
aqueous solutions with the presence of high ionic 
strengths above 0.5 M due to strong electrostatic 
screening effects, as well as antipolyelectrolyte 
behavior, resulting in the formation of a 
mix-charged conformational state in 
non-associations as illustrated in Figure 7(a). 
The protein adsorption behavior of zwitterionic 
polySBMA-grafted surfaces is different from 
that of mix-charged poly(TMA-co-SA)-grafted 
surfaces on which protein adsorption is much 
higher at low ionic strengths. Zwitterionic 
structure of polySBMA has positive and negative 
charges in the same side chain and also can form 
different conformational states of inter- and 
intrachain associations as shown in Figure 7(b), 
which was proposed by Huck and his 
co-workers.30 However, Figure 6(b) showed that 
a nonfouling surface of polySBMA brushes can 
be achieved when the solution contains a small 
amount of ionic salt above 10 mM. It indicates 
that zwitterionic charge groups of SBMA are 
strongly hydrated through ionic salvation, 
resulting in the formation of a zwittreionic 
conformational state in non-associations, even at 
low ionic strength of 20mM. Thus, the proposed 
model in Figure 7 depicts a significant molecular 
insight that the distance between two charged 
groups has effects on their inter- and 
intramolecular interactions between polymer 
brushes associated with the nonfouling 
properties. At high ionic strength solution, 
poly(TMA-co-SA) with a homogeneous mixture 
of balanced charge groups exhibited a 
nonfouling surface for protein resistance. The 
results demonstrate that the spacing between two 
mix-charged groups in a nanometer-scale might 
be similar to that of ethylene spacer between two 
charged groups in the polySBMA side chains, 
resulting the non-associations of 
poly(TMA-co-SA) brushes.  
 
Plasma Protein Adsorption and Human Blood 
Cell Adhesion  
The extent of plasma protein adsorption was 
evaluated by the inspection of blood 
compatibility of the surface grafted with 
poly(TMA-co-SA) brushes. Real-time adsorption 
of human plasma proteins onto 
poly(TMA-co-SA)-grafted surfaces was 
monitored using SPR at 37oC. A diluted solution 
containing 20% (v/v, in PBS) plasma proteins 
from platelet poor plasma was used to reduce the 
effects of plasma viscosity in the SPR flow 
channel and to prevent the formation of small 
bubbles.  
 
Figure 8. Adsorption of plasma proteins on 
CH3-SAMs, OEG-SAMs, poly(TMA-co-SA), 
and polySBMA grafted surfaces at 37oC from 
human blood plasma. 
 
Figure 8 shows the adsorption of plasma 
proteins on CH3-SAMs, OEG-SAMs, 
 14 
 
四、研究結論  
In this work, mixed charge distribution in the 
prepared poly(TMA-co-SA) copolymer brushes 
with overall charge neutrality can be obtained 
using high reaction rate of surface-initiated 
ATRP. We have combined SPR to demonstrate 
that an antifouling surface of neutral 
poly(TMA-co-SA) brushes for non-specific 
protein resistance can be achieved in PBS buffer 
at both 23oC and 37oC when the surface 
contains a mixture of balanced charge groups 
from two mixed charge components of TMA 
and SA. The result shows that the increased 
charge neutrality of poly(TMA-co-SA) formed 
by high concentration of TMA and SA in short 
reaction time makes its copolymer surface more 
hydrophilic, indicating the formation of a strong 
hydration layer from the zwitterionic pairs of 
positively charged TMA and negatively charged 
SA in a 1:1 ratio. We have also found that 
different ionic strengths in the presence of salt 
ions have different antipolyelectrolyte effects on 
the prepared copolymer brushes. The result 
depicts a significant molecular insight of 
poly(TMA-co-SA) association states that the 
distance between two charged groups has 
hydrated-promoting effects on their inter- and 
intramolecular interactions between copolymer 
brushes associated with the nonfouling 
properties. Furthermore, results also show that 
there is a remarkably reduction of the adsorption 
of plasma proteins and the adhesion of blood 
cells on the poly(TMA-co-SA) grafted surface 
from the human blood plasma and whole blood. 
Results suggest that the hemocompatible nature 
of poly(TMA-co-SA) copolymer brushes with a 
equal distribution of mix-charged groups in 
different side chains as potential 
antithrombogenic surface coatings. 
 
參考文獻 
(1) Hoffman, A. S. Advances in Chemistry Series; 
American Chemical Society: Washington, 
DC, 1982; p 3.  
(2) Ratner, B. D.; Hoffman, A. D.; Schoen, F. D.; 
Lemons, J. E. Biomaterials Science, an 
Introduction to Materials in Medicine. 2nd 
ed.; Elsevier: Amsterdam, 2004. 
(3) Chen, S.; Zheng, J.; Li, L.; Jiang, S. J. Am. 
Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 14473. 
(4) Ratner, B. D. Biomaterials 2007, 28, 5144. 
(5) Chen, S. F.; Jiang, S. Y. Adv. Mater. 2008, 20, 
335. 
(6) Krishnan, S.; Weinman, C. J.; Ober, C. K. J. 
Mater. Chem. 2008, 18, 3405. 
(7) Chiang, Y. C.; Chang, Y.; Higuchi, A.; Chen, 
W. Y.; Ruaan, R. C. J. Membr. Sci. 2009, 
339, 151. 
(8) Shen, M. C.; Wagner, M. S.; Castner, D. G.; 
Ratner, B. D.; Horbett, T. A. Langmuir 2003, 
19, 1692. 
(9) Kwak, D.; Wu, Y. G.; Horbett, T. A. J. 
Biomed. Mater. Res. Part A 2005, 74A, 69. 
(10) Harris, J. M. Poly(Ethylene Glycol) 
Chemistry: Biotechnical and Biomedical 
Applications. 1st ed.; Springer, 1992. 
(11) Li, L.; Chen, S.; Zheng, J.; Ratner, B. D.; 
Jiang, S. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 2934. 
(12) Ostuni, E.; Chapman, R. G.; Holmlin, R. E.; 
Takayama, S.; Whitesides, G. M. Langmuir 
2001, 17, 5605. 
(13) Luk, Y. Y.; Kato, M.; Mrksich, M. Langmuir 
2000, 16, 9604. 
(14) Shen, M. C.; Martinson, L.; Wagner, M. S.; 
Castner, D. G.; Ratner, B. D.; Horbett, T. A. 
J. Biomater. Sci., Polym. Ed. 2002, 13, 367. 
(15) Li, L. Y.; Chen, S. F.; Jiang, S. Y. J. 
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97－2221－E－033－006  
計畫名稱 
控制不同雙離子性高分子鏈之排列結構對於其材料界面與生物巨分子之
交互作用機制探討 
The control of various zwitterionic structures of polymer chains on the molecular 
interaction mechanism between their material interface and biomacromolecules 
from biological system 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
張雍/中原大學/助理教授 
會議時間地點 
國家：日本,  城市：神戶 
自 98 年 7 月 12 日至 98 年 7 月 14 日 
會議名稱 The Fifth Conference of Aseanian Membrane Society (AMS5)  
發表論文題目 
A well-controlled antibiofouling poly(vinylidene fluroride) ultrafiltration membrane 
with poly(ethylene glycol) methacrylate via surface-initiated atom transfer radical 
polymerization 
 
 
 
 3
※報告內容請包括下列各項，並以 A4 紙書寫。 
 
二、 與會心得 
(1) 口頭報告 
此次大會主要有來自五個國家(台灣、日本、韓國、澳洲、中國)的研究學者參予，共有
408 人參加此會議。申請人報告方式以英文為主，報告內容如下: 
 Anti-biofouling materials of zwitterionic polysulfobetaine studied by surface plasma resonance 
報告大綱如下: 
This work describes a well controlled surface modification approach of poly(vinylidene fluroride) 
(PVDF) Ultrafiltration (UF) membranes grafted with poly(ethylene glycol) methacrylate (PEGMA) 
via directly surface-initiated atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP). The chemical 
composition and microstructure of the surface-modified PVDF membranes were characterized by 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), contact angle and atomic force microscopy (AFM) 
measurements. The protein adsorption on the prepared membranes was evaluated using the method 
of Bradford. The grafting density of the copolymerized PEGMA and hydrophilicity on the surface of 
PVDF UF membranes can be well regulated via surface-initiated ATRP at room temperature and 
short reaction time that performs higher efficient than traditional thermal-induced grafting 
copolymerization. The hydration of PEGMA chains on the resulting PVDF membranes can be 
controlled by the grafting density of PEGMA on the membrane surface. The relative protein 
adsorption was effectively reduced with increasing capacity of the hydration for the PEGMA chain 
grafted on the PVDF membrane surface. From protein ultrafiltration experiments, the 
PEGMA-grafted PVDF UF membranes exhibited good antibiofouling properties to substantially 
reduce the irreversible membrane fouling caused by protein adsorption, compared with the virgin 
hydrophobic PVDF UF membrane. The results indicated that the surface modification via 
surface-initiated ATRP could efficiently provide PVDF UF membranes with an extremely high 
PEGMA grafting density to perform low biofouling property. 
口頭報告報告後，與來自不同國家之研究學者進行討論，交換寶貴的研究經驗。 
 5
 
 
三、 建議 
AMS 為每年固定舉辦之亞洲薄膜研討會，對於發展亞洲區薄膜工程領域的研究及提高學
者學術交流而言，有很大的助益。此會議在於未來薄膜領域的發展上，強調水資源、能
源及環保議題的重要性。而水資源處理，會是薄膜技術應用最大的一個需要與市場，包
含民生廢水、工業廢水及海水淡化等。政府應重視台灣的水處理本土技術的深根，給予
國內薄膜學術機構與相關薄膜產業高度輔導支持，成立屬於台灣的薄膜產業，才能提升
國際競爭力。 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
AMS5 會議資料(紙本與電子檔) 
 
五、 其他 
 
 
 
 7
In the present work, surface-induced graft polymerization of PEGMA on PVDF UF membrane surface were first 
carried out by ozone pre-treatment, surface-coupling of 2-bromoisobutyryl bromide and followed by surface-initiated 
ATRP, which grafting efficiency was compared to the previous study using thermal-induced grafting copolymerization 
[3]. The grafting density of PEGMA polymer brushes on PVDF membrane surface was controlled by different reaction 
time with confined macromonomer concentration in the reaction solution at room temperature. The chemical 
composition, hydrophilicity and morphology of the PEGMA-modified ePTFE membrane surface were characterized by 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR), water contact angle, and atomic force microscopy (AFM). This work 
demonstrates the correlation between the degree of hydration and protein adsorption on the virgin and PEGMA-grafted 
PVDF membrane surfaces. Membrane biofouling properties on the prepared membranes were also evaluated by the 
amounts of protein adsorption using the method of Bradford and the percentage of protein fouling using ultrafiltration 
tests. 
II. INSTRUCTIONS 
A. Surface copolymerization 
In order to improve of grafting efficiency of PEGMA polymer from PVDF membrane surface, a new surface 
grafting approach was introduced using surface-initiated ATRP. As shown in Fig. 1, the integrated process for 
surface-initiated ATRP could be divided into three stages. The first stage was to produce hydroxyl groups on the PVDF 
membrane surface (PVDF-OH) via ozone treatment and heating. The amount of produced hydroxyl groups can be 
controlled by the ozone treating time. It was found in Fig. 2 that the water flux and surface hydrophilicity of the PVDF 
membrane increased as the ozone treating time increased from 0 to 10 min with the controlled ozone concentration of 
about 46 g/L and heating temperature of 80oC in distilled water for 2 hr. The phenomena is due to the fact that the 
amount of hydroxyl groups on the PVDF membrane surface increased with the ozone treating time increased. The 
second stage in the preparation process was subsequent to coupling the initiator of bromide (Br) onto the PVDF-OH 
membrane surface (PVDF-Br) via dehydration reaction. The following stage in the preparation process was finally to 
copolymerize the macromonomer of PEGMA from the PVDF-Br membrane surface via surface-initiated ATRP.  
 
Fig. 1.  Schematic illustration of the preparation process of the PVDF-g-PEGMA UF membranes via surface copolymerization - (a) ozone surface 
activation followed by surface-induced thermal radical polymerization; (b) ozone treatment and bromide activation followed by surface-initiated atom 
transfer radical polymerization. 
 
B. Correlation of surface hydration capacity of the prepared PVDF membranes with protein adsorption 
The antibiofouling behavior of protein adsorption onto a surface with grafted polymer chains has been extensively 
studied over the past two decades [4]. The formation of the hydration layer on a hydrophilic surface was believed as a 
crucial issue to repel proteins and made the protein conformations unchanged. In general, grafting density, chain length, 
