2 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
導磁係數為負之超穎物質之分析與天線應用 
Analysis of Mu-Negative Metamaterial and the Antenna 
Application 
計畫編號：NSC 98−2221−E−002−049 
執行期間：98 年 8 月 1 日 至 99 年 9 月 30 日 
主持人：陳士元  國立台灣大學電信工程學研究所 
參與人員：陳士元、洪琬婷、邱詩家、歐陽良昱 
 
 
I. 中文摘要 
本計畫首先利用矩形波導管的 TE10 模
態來萃取導磁係數為負之人造超穎物質之
等效介電係數與導磁係數，並探討其色散特
性。接著，以該超穎物質之微結構，組成一
高電容性之空間阻抗元件，置於微小化之環
形天線四周，大幅改善其輸入阻抗匹配情
形，並探討微結構對於天線效能之影響。最
後，我們結合了在地之拓樸最佳化與基因演
算法，針對微結構進行拓樸最佳化，進一步
縮小了前述天線的尺寸，而最佳化之設計擁
有近−30 dB 之反射係數，並維持其輻射效
能。 
關鍵詞：微型化天線、環形天線、超穎物質、
等效導磁係數、隙環共振器 
II. ABSTRACT 
A simple method is presented to extract 
the effective permittivity and permeability of 
the artificial mu-negative metamaterials 
(MNG MTMs). The fundamental TE10 mode 
of a rectangular waveguide is used to derive 
the relations between the material properties 
and the scattering parameters. With the aid of 
the method, the dispersion characteristics of 
the MNG MTMs are investigated intensively. 
The unit cells of the MNG MTM is then used 
to form a highly-capacitive spatial matching 
layer placed in close proximity to an 
electrically small loop antenna such that its 
input matching condition is drastically 
improved. The influences on the antenna 
performances imposed by the MNG unit cells 
are also examined. Moreover, the 
genetic-algorithm-based in-situ topology 
optimization is performed on the MNG unit 
cell, and further miniaturization of the small 
loop antenna is achieved. The reflection 
coefficient of about −30 dB is obtained, while 
the radiation performances are kept almost 
unchanged. 
Keywords: Electrically-small antennas, loop 
antennas, metamaterial, effective permeability, 
split-ring resonators. 
III. 簡介 
由於超穎物質與電磁場作用時，能展現
迥異於一般物質的電磁特性，近來因而成為
微波領域最熱門的研究題材[1]-[3]。如本計
畫於申請書中之描述，美國-亞利桑納大學
電機系的 Richard W. Ziolkowski 教授及其研
究團隊透過數值模擬證明：將一由均勻等向
性且介電係數為負之超穎物質所構成之球
殻包覆在一短偶極天線上，可形成一電感性
之空間阻抗匹配元件，以補償天線本身極強
之電容性，進而達到阻抗匹配。而透過對偶
特性可知：若以一由均勻等向性且導磁係數
為負之超穎物質所構成之球殻包覆一微小
4 
 
 
圖三、量測萃取之 BC-SRR 等效導磁係數。 
 
由圖三可知，該結構在接近共振頻率時(約
2.42 GHz)，等效導磁係數的實部會陡升至
約 11，此時損耗(虛部的絕對值)也很大，接
著實部驟降為負值再緩慢遞增，而在 2.45 
GHz 附近，實部增加到 0，之後變為正值。
簡言之，以 BC-SRR 所構成之導磁係數為負
之超穎物質，不僅具有方向性(入射波之磁
場須與 SRR 軸平行)，且僅在共振頻率附近
呈現負的導磁係數之材料特性，且由於共振
時電流大量分佈於金屬環形結構上，導致較
大的能量損耗。 
 本計畫利用前述之方法分析了數種導
磁係數為負之超穎物質微結構之特性，也針
對微結構進行最佳化的設計，並將之應用到
微小化環形天線之空間阻抗匹配上，而由於
實際應用時，微結構的週期性排列與理想狀
況(如波導管中)或有差異，往往造成工作頻
率的偏移；因此，在天線應用設計中，本研
究採用就地拓樸最佳化方法，而不單就微結
構進行最佳化之設計。 
V. 環形天線之微小化設計 
為了驗證前述『以導磁係數為負之超穎
物質所構成之球殻包覆之微小化環形天線
可達到良好的阻抗匹配』，我們提出了一微
小化環形天線，在鄰近天線結構處，週期性
地擺上 BC-SRR。為了方便同軸線饋入，我
們只使用一半的結構，並將天線直立於一金
屬接地平面上。我們設計 SRR 之共振頻率
在 2 GHz，該天線之實體照片如圖四。 
 
圖四、所提出之微小化環形天線實體照片。 
 
接地面大小為 100 mm × 100 mm，介質基板
為 Duroid 5880 (εr = 2.2, tanδ = 0.0009)，厚
度為 31 mil。值得注意的是：該微小化之環
形天線本身第一個共振模態發生在約 8 
GHz，而對於一具有與該天線整體結構相同
大小的環形天線則共振於 2.8 GHz，代表我
們提出的設計的確能達到微小化的效果。 
該天線經實作與量測，所得到的反射係
數繪於圖五。而為了方便比較，單獨的微小
化環形天線之模擬反射係數亦附於其中。 
|S
11
| (
dB
)
 
圖五、模擬與量測之反射係數響應。 
 
由圖五可知，模擬與量測之結果分別在 2.01 
與 2.08 GHz 達到很好的阻抗匹配，但其頻
寬均很窄(僅約 1%)，主要是受限於導磁係
數為負的工作頻寬。而兩者間的頻率誤差，
主要來自製作上精細度的限制。另外，由圖
中綠色點線亦可看出單獨的微小化環形天
線之輸入阻抗極不匹配。 
圖六所示為模擬與量測之遠場輻射場
型，其為單向輻射且因接地平面的存在而有
6 
 
西根州立大學的 Edward J. Rothwell 教授之
團隊合作。為了考慮超穎物質微結構所處之
工作環境對其電磁特性之影響，我們採用在
地之拓樸最佳化方法，意即在微小化環形天
線結構上，直接對 BC-SRR 微結構進行拓樸
最佳化。拓樸最佳化係將微結構(SRR#3)所
佔用之矩形區域切割成許多畫素(Pixels)，如
圖九所示。 
 
 
圖十、利用在地拓樸最佳化得到之微型化天
線結構圖。 
 
在此例中，最佳化之矩形區域(W × Lc = 22.4 
mm × 16 mm)共切割成 14 × 10 個正方形畫
素(1.6 mm × 1.6 mm)，雙面結構共 280 個畫
素；每個畫素分別有 ON 或 OFF 兩種狀態：
ON 指的是該畫素的材質設為銅，而 OFF 則
設為空氣。由於 BC-SRR 的雙面金屬結構互
為反對稱，再加上本身的對稱性，使得實際
需要最佳化的畫素僅為總畫素數目的四分
之一，意即有 270 (超過 1021)個可能的拓樸架
構。為了從這數量極為龐大的可能架構中，
找到滿足阻抗匹配條件的結構，本計畫採用
基因演算法來進行二元搜尋；值得注意的
是，其他常見的最佳化演算法，如模擬退火
法等，亦可適用。 
在基因演算法中，我們設定起始族群的
個體數量為 160，透過隨機產生，接著以聯
賽方式選取其中 Fitness value 排名前 25%的
個體，進行突變與相互交配，以產生下一個
世代的族群個體(共 160 個)，然後針對其
Fitness value 進行排名；重複前述步驟，直
到出現個體的 Fitness value 滿足所設定之條
件或是完成欲檢驗的世代數上限(一般定為
100 個世代)。在這邊的例子中，Fitness value
的定義及條件如下： 
( ) 20log20 1110 −<×= Sf  
即天線之反射係數須低於−20dB；其中，S11
是利用Ansoft HFSS模擬該個體所對應之天
線拓樸結構所得到之反射係數。而整個拓樸
最 佳 化 的 流 程 是 透 過 我 們 所 撰 寫 的
Matlab-HFSS 應用程式介面來完成；基因演
算法的執行以及對 HFSS 的存取控制是用
Matlab 語言來實現，而全波模擬則是利用
HFSS 軟體。在獲得個體所對應之天線拓樸
之 S11 後，便能求其 Fitness value 及其在該
世代之族群內排名。 
 在前例中，設定工作頻率為 960 MHz，
經過前述之最佳化流程後，我們得到六個滿
足 Fitness value 條件之設計，選擇其中反射
係數最小的天線架構進行實作驗證，所得到
之反射係數頻率響應如圖十一所示，而模擬
之輻射場型如圖十二所示。 
 
圖十一、最佳化天線結構之反射係數響應。 
 
 
圖十二、模擬之遠場輻射場型。 
8 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應
用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜
合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■   達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
共有兩篇國際期刊論文，分別發表於 IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech.與
IEEE Trans.Antennas Propag.，以及四篇研討會論文。 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）
（以 500 字為限） 
 
本計畫不僅達成預定目標，相關的研究成果也發表於國際期刊以及國際研討
會。目前，各種超穎物質的分析、設計雖然都還在學術探討階段，但它的出
現引發了全新的微波元件之設計概念。因此，本計畫之成果實具有後續探討
之價值，而本人之研究團隊也將持續相關之研究，期能在學術與產業應用上
均有所貢獻。 
 
 
 
 
10 
 
附 錄 
已發表之國際期刊論文： 
1. R. O. Ouedraogo, E. J. Rothwell, S.-Y. Chen, and B. J. Greetis, “An Automatically Tunable 
Cavity Resonator System,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 58, no. 4, pp. 894-902, 
Apr. 2010. 
2. Y.-S. Chen, S.-Y. Chen, and H.-J. Li, “Analysis of Antenna Coupling in Near-Field 
Communication Systems,” to appear in vol. 58, no. 10 of IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag. 
已發表之研討會論文： 
1. S.-Y. Chen, C.-W. Tseng, S.-C. Chiu, and P. Hsu, “Frequency-Agile, Miniaturized Slot 
Antenna for Hand-Held Devices,” URSI Commission B International Symposium on 
Electromagnetic Theory, Berlin, Germany, Aug. 2010. 
2. C.-P. Lai, S.-Y. Chen, and H.-J. Li, “Choice of Host Transmission Line for Inductor-Loaded 
Zeroth-Order Resonator Antenna,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium and URSI Radio 
Science Meeting, Toronto, Canada, July 2010. 
3. J.-H. Chen, S.-Y. Chen, and P. Hsu, “Conductor-Backed Coplanar Waveguide Fed Bilateral 
Slot Loop Antenna,” IEEE AP-S International Symposium and URSI Radio Science 
Meeting, Toronto, Canada, July 2010. 
4. S.-C. Chiu and S.-Y. Chen, “A Miniaturized Zeroth-Order Resonant Antenna Composed of 
Composite Right/Left-Handed Coplanar Waveguide,” National Symposium on 
Telecommunications, p. 1043, Kaohsiung, Dec. 2009. 
 
 
OUEDRAOGO et al.: AUTOMATICALLY TUNABLE CAVITY RESONATOR SYSTEM 895
cavity tunability using a GA optimizer. The goals were to de-
termine whether a cavity may be retuned to an initial resonance
frequency when its geometry is altered and to see if a cavity may
be retuned when the property of a loading material is changed.
It is important to note that, for self-structuring systems such
as antennas or resonators, the goal of the simulations is not to
accurately predict the response of a working device at some par-
ticular state. This would be very difficult due to problems with
modeling control wires, switches, or contacts. Instead, simula-
tions are used to determine first the feasibility of the concept and
then to explore the statistical properties of the switch states. It
has been found that the statistics of appropriately designed sim-
plified system models accurately predict the performance of a
constructed device, as long as the number of states is large, that
is, if a fraction of switch states results in a simplified model
meeting a specified performance criterion, then a similar frac-
tion of switch states for an actual device meets the same crite-
rion, even if the states themselves do not correlate individually
[12]. To determine the properties of the actual device for a given
switch state, it is necessary to perform an appropriate measure-
ment.
A. Cavity Model
A cubical perfectly conducting cavity of side 0.3 m was mod-
eled in NEC4 as a wire grid using the equal area rule [16]. To
produce a finite and to simulate the presence of a loading ma-
terial, a wire of radius 0.5 mm and length of 5 mm was placed
parallel to the -axis and centered at 20 mm, 20 mm,
15 mm. The wire was distributively loaded by 200 ; the
value of this loading may be altered to investigate the tuning ca-
pabilities of the cavity. It would have been preferable to model
a lossy dielectric load, but this is not possible with NEC4. Thus,
the loaded wire is considered to be an ersatz material.
NEC4 was chosen to perform the simulations because of the
numerical Green’s function (NGF) option, which is not avail-
able with other computational packages such as FEKO or High
Frequency Software Simulator (HFSS). The NGF enables the
user to model a specific structure and save the interaction ma-
trix to a file. Additions to the structure then require computa-
tion only of the new interactions. If the additions are minor, as
when introducing a simplified model of a switch, the vast ma-
jority of the interactions do not need to be recomputed. This is
particularly useful during an optimization where the simulation
must be performed repeatedly, but only the states of a number
of switches are changed with each run. In the case of the tun-
able cavity, the cavity structure remains unchanged and only the
switches on the tuning structure are updated with each iteration.
A tuning structure was introduced into the cavity to provide
the desired perturbation of the cavity fields. The structure con-
sists of a set of 14 identical vertical wires interconnected at their
ends by 22 horizontal wires. The vertical wires, each of length
4 cm and radius 0.5 mm, are attached to the inner top wall of
the cavity through controllable switches, modeled as segment
loads of either 0.1 (for a closed switch) or 10 (for an open
switch). These wires perturb the electric field of the fundamental
cavity mode. The horizontal wires, also of radius 0.5 mm, per-
turb the magnetic field of the fundamental mode and contain an
additional 12 switches. Adding the horizontal wires allows the
Fig. 1. Tunable microwave resonator showing inserted tuning structure.
length of the vertical wires to be reduced, providing a compact
tuning structure with more usable cavity space.
The layout of the tuning structure is chosen with reference to
[13] and [14], where it is shown that the largest effect on the res-
onance frequency of the fundamental mode is achieved
by placing perturbing elements at points of strongest electric
field. Therefore, the tuning structure is placed in the middle of
the inner top wall of the cavity, as shown in Fig. 1. The choice
of wire radius for the tuning structure depends on the intended
application of the tunable cavity. Thicker wires have a much
stronger effect on the resonant frequency and provide a larger
frequency shift compared with thinner wires. However, for ap-
plications where finer frequency adjustments are needed, it is
necessary to use either thinner or shorter tuning wires to pro-
vide smaller individual perturbations. With a large number of
thin tuning wires, a wide tuning range can be obtained while
maintaining the capability of providing small frequency shifts.
A potential issue related to the use of thin wires is the possi-
bility of breakdown for high-power applications. In this case,
an additional structure could be added to prevent arcing, while
maintaining the tunability provided by the tuning structure.
The empty cavity has a fundamental -mode resonant
frequency of 707.00 MHz. The cavity is fed using a wire probe
of length 4 cm and radius 0.5 mm located in the center of the
bottom wall. The addition of the feeding probe and the ersatz
material shifts the resonant frequency to 704.04 MHz and
produces a return loss of 9.74 dB (with respect to 50 ) and
an unloaded quality factor of . The addition of the
tuning structure with all switches in the “on” state causes a shift
of the resonant frequency to 659.20 MHz. By turning all 26
switches off, the resonant frequency of the cavity is shifted up
to 689.00 MHz. Thus, the anticipated minimum tuning range
of the cavity is 659.20–689.00 MHz.
B. Simulation Results
The tunable resonator concept was investigated by consid-
ering two different questions. First, is it possible to optimize the
cavity to resonate at any desired frequency within a reasonable
band while maintaining favorable performance (return loss and
quality factor)? To address this question, six arbitrary frequen-
cies were selected within a chosen band, and the cavity was op-
timized for high return loss at each frequency. Second, can the
resonant frequency of the cavity be held fixed when environ-
mental conditions change? To answer the second question, three
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan University. Downloaded on July 23,2010 at 11:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
OUEDRAOGO et al.: AUTOMATICALLY TUNABLE CAVITY RESONATOR SYSTEM 897
Fig. 4. Tunable cavity response to a volume decrease of 2.5%.
Fig. 5. Tunable cavity response to a change in the characteristics of the loading
material.
695.10 MHz. Retuning the cavity to 680.00 MHz produces the
results shown in Fig. 4, where it can be seen that a favorable
return loss of 23.68 dB and an unloaded of 19 000 were
achieved.
In the final example, the resonant frequency of the cavity was
shifted by changing the characteristics of the ersatz material.
The distributed load of the loading wire was reduced from 200
to 68 and the load was displaced to the location 20.0 mm,
20.0 mm, 10.0 mm, causing a shift in the resonance
frequency to 677.95 MHz. Retuning the cavity back to the de-
sired operating frequency then produced the results shown in
Fig. 5. In this case, a return loss of 28.78 dB and an unloaded
of 14 000 were achieved.
An important property of the self-tuning resonator is that the
fields in the region unoccupied by the tuning structure are es-
sentially those of the fundamental mode of the empty
cavity. Thus, the majority of the cavity volume is available for
use, and no modifications to compensate for field pattern per-
turbation are necessary. To demonstrate this, the -component
of the simulated electric field is plotted in Fig. 6 as a function
of position, with 15 cm, 15 cm (cavity center)
Fig. 6. Electric field pattern in the cavity center with the cavity opti-
mized for two different loading scenarios.     15 cm,    15 cm, and
   680.00 MHz.
Fig. 7. Electric field pattern near the tuning structure for the cavity optimized
at 680 and 669 MHz.     15 cm and    27 cm.
and 1 V applied to the input probe. The solid line is the field
of the optimized cavity at 680.00 MHz with the impedance of
the ersatz loading material set to 200 . The solid circles show
the field after the material impedance is changed to 68 , and
the dashed–dotted curve shows the field after the cavity with the
altered loading has been tuned back to resonance. In each case,
the field patterns are nearly identical to those of the fundamental
mode.
It is not surprising that the patterns of the fields in the vicinity
of the tuning structure are altered significantly from those of the
fundamental mode, since the purpose of the tuning structure is
to perturb the fields so as to change the resonance properties of
the cavity. Plots of the -component of the simulated electric
field for the cavity optimized at 669 MHz and 680 MHz are
shown in Fig. 7 as a function of position. Here 15 cm
and 27 cm. It can be seen that the electric field is greatly
perturbed for both situations and that, since the switch settings
are quite different in the two cases, the shapes of the perturbed
electric field patterns are also quite different.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan University. Downloaded on July 23,2010 at 11:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
OUEDRAOGO et al.: AUTOMATICALLY TUNABLE CAVITY RESONATOR SYSTEM 899
Fig. 10. Simulated return loss of a cavity with the tuning structure of the proto-
type, compared with the return loss of a cavity with the original tuning structure.
cavity is tuned to 680 MHz using the original tuning structure.
It can be seen from the plot that, for this example, the tuning
structure of the prototype has a tuning capability equal to that
of the structure used in the original simulations. Experimental
results demonstrate that this capability extends across the band
predicted by the original simulations.
The GA used for the optimization is relatively standard. For
each frequency of interest, a population of 200 different switch
configurations is first selected randomly. Each switch config-
uration is used to set the states of the switches on the tuning
structure and the fitness of each switch configuration is evalu-
ated using the scalar voltage measured at the receiver, . To
calibrate the measurement, the cavity is replaced by a short cir-
cuit, which has a known reflection coefficient of . The
fitness function is defined as
(1)
where is the reference short-circuit voltage. Minimizing this
fitness function is thus equivalent to maximizing the return loss
of the cavity. Upon completion of the evaluation of all the fit-
nesses of all switch configurations in the initial population, a
selection of the switch configurations with the lowest fitness
values is performed. The lowest 20% are selected, and a simple
two-point crossover and single bit mutation are performed on
the selected 20% until a new population is generated. The new
population represents the next generation to be evaluated. This
process is repeated until the desired fitness value is obtained
or the maximum number of generations (set to 100 in the ex-
periment) is reached. After the optimization process, the switch
configuration with the lowest fitness is saved as the best among
those evaluated for that particular frequency. The best switch
configuration is then used to set the states of the switches and a
frequency sweep of the cavity return loss is performed to deter-
mine the resonance curve of the prototype cavity. This process
is repeated for every frequency of optimization.
Fig. 11. Results of the tunability study of the prototype cavity for large-fre-
quency increments.
The resonant frequency of the closed cavity consisting of the
aluminum box and copper top was first measured with no tuning
structure present and was found to be 779.40 MHz. The return
loss at this frequency was 9.52 dB and the measured quality
factor was 890. The external of the empty cavity, ,
is estimated by computing the theoretical empty-cavity using
modal analysis as presented in [3]. In this case, the value of
915 obtained for accounts for the external measurement
system. In subsequent experiments, accounts both for the
external measurement system and for additional losses due to
the tuning structure and the test materials.
Replacing the top of the cavity with the tuning structure and
turning all of the switches off produced a resonant frequency
of 746.85 MHz with a return loss of 3.02 dB. Turning all of the
switches on shifted the resonant frequency down to 707.60 MHz
with a return loss of 16.78 dB. It is thus anticipated that the
prototype cavity should provide an approximate tuning range
of 707–746 MHz. The ability of the prototype to be tuned to a
desired frequency and its ability to maintain the resonant fre-
quency under material perturbations are investigated next.
A. Tunability Test
The ability of the cavity to be tuned to desired frequencies
within the range of 707–746 MHz was evaluated by optimizing
the prototype at 9 different frequency points. Tunability was
evaluated at a large-frequency increment of 5.00 MHz from
720.00 to 740.00 MHz and at a small-frequency increment of
1.00 MHz from 724.00 to 727.00 MHz. Figs. 11 and 12 show
plots of the return loss at the best switch state found for each
of the frequencies of optimization. It is seen that each of the
switch configurations produced a return loss of 40 dB or higher
with the exception of the optimization performed at 740.00 MHz
where a return loss of 28.04 dB was obtained. The highest return
loss of 58.73 dB was obtained at 727.00 MHz. Optimization of
the prototype above 745 MHz returned no satisfactory result,
but a very high return loss of 62.42 dB was obtained at 705.00
MHz (as shown in Fig. 11). This frequency is lower than the
resonance frequency of 707.60 MHz with all switches closed,
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan University. Downloaded on July 23,2010 at 11:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
OUEDRAOGO et al.: AUTOMATICALLY TUNABLE CAVITY RESONATOR SYSTEM 901
search. For any practical implementation, it is thus necessary to
employ an efficient search algorithm capable of finding good
switch states within a reasonable number of iterations. The op-
timizer used in the present study was chosen based on extensive
studies of the self-structuring antenna presented in [7]–[12].
It is shown there that nature-based search algorithms such as
ant-colony optimization, simulated annealing algorithms, and
GAs are well suited for the type of binary problem present
in self-structuring antenna optimization. Since the self-tuning
cavity is based on similar operating principles, a nature-based
optimizer was chosen for cavity optimization. Note that, since
the optimization is binary (a switch is either on or off), stan-
dard search algorithms that use derivative information, such
as gradient methods, are difficult to implement. The GA was
chosen because of its inherent ease of implementation and its
familiarity to the authors and to the research community. Other
search algorithms may provide improved performance in terms
of the number of switch states examined; identifying such an
optimizer is left to future research.
B. Time Required for Optimization
The time required to find an acceptable state depends on four
main factors: the number of states examined, the time to set an
individual state, the time to communicate information about the
performance of a particular state to the algorithm, and the time
for the algorithm to evaluate the returned information and se-
lect a new set of states to examine. As discussed above, the
total number of states examined depends on the efficiency of
the algorithm. The time to set an individual state is determined
by the switch settling time. The existing prototype uses simple
electromechanical switches with a settling time of 5 ms. Much
faster switches, such as those described in [18] are available,
with settling times as low as 11 s. The time needed for the al-
gorithm to determine the next set of switch states is insignificant
compared to other considerations. In the existing experiment,
the time for each iteration is dominated by the communication
time between the receiver and the controller, which takes place
through a general-purpose interface bus and requires approxi-
mately 200 ms. This time can be improved dramatically by using
more rapid communication links. In the case of self-structuring
antenna prototypes this time has been reduced below 5 ms.
In cases where the response of the cavity to changes is pre-
dictable (such as a change in the operating frequency of a cavity
with no material loading), appropriate states may be stored in
a lookup table. In this case, retuning is nearly instantaneous,
since no search is required. However, this approach is not appro-
priate for those situations, such as the curing of materials, where
changes to the cavity environment are unpredictable. However,
if the changes occur in a continuous manner, retuning can be
accomplished very efficiently, since the results from previous
optimizations can be used as starting points for subsequent op-
timizations.
C. Construction Issues
Many switch configurations produce asymmetries in the
cavity geometry that have the potential to produce parasitic
resonances. However, in both the simulations and the experi-
ments, no excitation of such resonances was observed with the
optimized cavity.
The prototype was fabricated by soldering switches and wires
to the outer top wall of the cavity. Radiation by the high-fre-
quency currents flowing on the switch wires is a potential source
of interference with neighboring instrumentation. Such radia-
tion can be easily mitigated by placing a shielding enclosure
over the wires and switches. Radiation by control signals on ca-
bling connected to the switches has been measured and found
not to be a significant issue. Addition of a ferrite choke can com-
pletely eliminate stray fields due to control signals.
V. CONCLUSION
A tunable cavity resonator that has the ability to adjust its
resonance properties in response to changes in its operating
environment is proposed. Simulation and measurement results
demonstrate that the resonant frequency of the cavity can be
tuned over a 5% range while maintaining a high return loss and
a high-cavity . It is important to note that the tuning range
might not be limited to 5%. Additional switches and tuning
wires could be added to further increase the number of possible
states and thus expand the search space. Additional or longer
wires should produce a larger perturbation and thus expand the
tuning range. Note also that only the return loss was optimized
in this work and that simultaneous optimization of both return
loss and cavity is left for future work.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank to Dr. J. Ross for providing
the use of the program GA-NEC.
REFERENCES
[1] G. R. Jones, J. C. Cacheris, and C. A. Morrison, “Magnetic tuning of
resonant cavities and wideband frequency modulation of klystrons,”
Proc. IRE, vol. 44, no. 10, pp. 1431–1438, Oct. 1956.
[2] L. M. Earley, H. A. Thiessen, R. Carlini, and J. Potter, “A high-  ferrite
tuned cavity,” IEEE Trans. Nucl. Sci., vol. NS-30, no. 4, pp. 3460–3462,
Aug. 1983.
[3] R. F. Harrington, Time-Harmonic Electromagnetic fields. New York:
IEEE Press, 2001.
[4] D. M. Pozar, Microwave Engineering, 3rd ed. New York: Wiley,
2005.
[5] J. Papapolymerou, J. C. Cheng, J. East, and L. P. B. Katehi, “A mi-
cromachined high-  -band resonator,” IEEE Microw. Guided Wave
Lett., vol. 7, no. 6, pp. 168–170, Jun. 1997.
[6] C. M. Coleman, E. J. Rothwell, J. E. Ross, and L. L. Nagy, “Self-struc-
turing antennas,” IEEE Antennas Propag. Mag., vol. 44, no. 3, pp.
11–22, Jun. 2002.
[7] C. M. Coleman, E. J. Rothwell, and J. E. Ross, “Self-structuring an-
tenna,” in Proc. IEEE AP-S Int. Symp., Jul. 2000, vol. 3, pp. 1256–1259.
[8] C. M. Coleman, E. J. Rothwell, J. E. Ross, B. T. Perry, and B. F. Basch,
“Self-structuring antenna for television reception,” in Proc. IEEE AP-S
Int. Symp., Jul. 2001, vol. 1, pp. 162–165.
[9] C. M. Coleman, E. J. Rothwell, and J. E. Ross, “Investigation of sim-
ulated annealing, ant-colony optimization, and genetic algorithm for
self-structuring antenna,” IEEE Antennas Propag. Mag., vol. 52, no. 4,
pp. 1007–1014, Apr. 2004.
[10] J. E. Ross, E. J. Rothwell, and S. Preschutti, “A complimentary self-
structuring antenna for use in a vehicle environment,” in IEEE AP-S
Int. Symp., Jun. 2004, vol. 3, pp. 2321–2324.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Taiwan University. Downloaded on July 23,2010 at 11:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Frequency-Agile, Miniaturized Slot Antenna for 
Hand-Held Devices 
Shih-Yuan Chen #1, Chun-Wei Tseng *2, Shih-Chia Chiu #3, and Powen Hsu #4 
# Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University 
Taipei 10617, Taiwan 
1 
sychen@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw  
3 f96942016@ntu.edu.tw  
4 phsu@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw  
* HTC Corp. 
Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—In this paper, a frequency-agile, miniaturized slot 
antenna suitable for use in hand-held devices is proposed. First 
of all, in order to design an electrically short slot, one end of the 
slot is terminated by a capacitance chosen according to a simple 
resonator model. The design concept is verified by both 
simulation and experiment, and is shown to be feasible. Instead 
of a constant capacitive termination, the frequency agility is 
attained by utilizing a varactor diode, of which the capacitance 
can be controlled by changing its bias voltage. A prototype 
antenna having a slot length of 20 mm and terminated by a 
varactor diode exhibits a continuously tunable resonant 
frequency between 0.78 GHz and 2.09 GHz as the bias voltage is 
adjusted from 0 V to 20 V. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Recently, a considerable effort [1]-[5] has been devoted to 
the miniaturization of printed slot antennas, which have been 
an excellent radiator for many applications due to its wide 
bandwidth, high efficiency, conformality, low profile, and 
ease of integration with other front-end circuitry. To design a 
miniature printed slot antenna, the meandered/folded structure 
and the reactance loading have been used very often, both 
individually or collectively, and they are considered the most 
effective techniques [1]-[5]. The miniaturization in [1]-[3] is 
accomplished by slot meandering or by folding or bending the 
slot, while in [4] and [5] various forms of inductive loadings 
are used to terminate the electrically short slot. The 
miniaturization technique exploited in this work belongs to the 
latter, in which a capacitive loading is used. 
On the other hand, due to the increasing demand for the 
integration of various wireless communication systems into a 
single had-held device or platform, a compact antenna with 
frequency agility has been regarded as a feasible solution, 
with which the total number of antennas and the associated 
space needed can be considerably reduced. Many frequency-
agile microstrip antennas have been proposed [6]-[10], and 
various devices, such as switches, MEMS actuators, PIN 
diodes, and varactor diodes, have been employed to realize the 
frequency tunability. To the authors’ knowledge, however, 
only a few works have been published so far on the 
frequency-agile printed slot antennas [11]-[15]. In this paper, 
a varactor-loaded, miniaturized slot antenna possessing a 
continuously tunable resonant frequency is proposed for 
application in hand-held devices. The proposed antenna 
exhibits a wide frequency tuning range and stable radiation 
characteristics. 
II. MINIATURIZATION OF SLOT ANTENNA USING CAPACITIVE 
TERMINATION 
A. Simplified slot resonator model 
It is known that, for a slot etched on an electrically large 
conducting plane, such as the main ground plane of a hand-
held device, which measures about 80×40 mm2, the first self-
resonance occurs when the slot length is equal to a half 
guided-wavelength since the slot are short-circuited at both 
ends. By terminating one of the two ends with an open circuit 
instead, the slot length can be halved and is equal to a quarter 
guided-wavelength. In practice, the truncated open end is 
mostly used, which has been considered as a high-impedance 
termination for slot/slotline [3], [16], [17]. By the same token, 
the slot length can be further reduced by placing a capacitor 
across the slot at the truncated open end as shown in Fig. 1. 
The value of the capacitance C needed can be written as 
2tan
1 πθ
θω
<=     for
Z
C
c
                                         (1) 
where Zc and θ are the characteristic impedance and the 
electrical length of the slot, respectively. Obviously, for a 
given resonant frequency, a shorter slot requires a larger C as 
its termination. In other words, for a given slot length, 
increasing C would lower the resonant frequency. Please 
notice that (1) can be derived easily from the transmission line 
model under the assumption that the slot/slotline is lossless 
and terminated by a perfect short circuit at the other end. Also, 
the inherent, noticeable “radiation loss” of the slot makes it an 
efficient resonant-type radiator with a lower Q, namely a 
wider bandwidth, rather than merely a resonator. Although the 
capacitance C calculated from (1) is not exact, it still provides 
a decent initial guess for design purpose. 
B. Miniaturization of slot antenna 
resembles that of an ordinary slot antenna. The simulated and 
measured peak gains are 2.6 dBi and 1.2 dBi, respectively. 
The measured gain is lower since the internal resistance of the 
chip capacitor is not taken into account in our simulation. 
III. MINIATURIZED SLOT ANTENNA WITH FREQUENCY AGILITY 
As mentioned earlier, for the miniaturized slot antenna of 
length L, increasing the termination capacitance C would 
lower the resonant frequency, and vice versa. This implies that 
the frequency agility can be attained if a varactor diode is used 
instead of the chip capacitor. A frequency-agile, miniaturized 
slot antenna is thus proposed and is discussed in this section. 
A. Antenna structure and dc bias network 
The configuration of the proposed antenna is depicted in 
Fig. 5. The antenna structure is basically the same as the 
aforementioned miniaturized slot antenna except the dc bias 
circuit for the varactor diode. Please notice that the cathode of 
the varactor diode is directly mounted to the metallic small 
square pad isolated from the other part of the ground plane 
and that a dc voltage source for biasing the diode is connected 
to the pad with an RF choke inductor connected in between. 
Moreover, two dc blocking capacitors are placed across the 
slit that isolates the pad to ensure the RF current distribution 
on the ground plane being similar to the original design using 
chip capacitor. With the aid of a varactor diode and the dc bias 
circuit, the termination capacitance C for the slot can be 
changed simply by adjusting the bias voltage VDC, which in 
turn shifts the resonant frequency of the proposed antenna. 
Although the electrical length of the radiating slot varies with 
frequency, the fundamental radiation mechanism of the 
antenna remains unchanged. Consequently, the radiation 
pattern is stable throughout the frequency tuning range and is 
similar to that shown in Fig. 4. 
B. Results 
A prototype antenna was implemented utilizing a GaAs 
hyperabrupt varactor diode from Aeroflex Inc. The 
capacitance decreases from 1.2 pF to 0.2 pF as the bias 
voltage VDC is increased from 0 V to 20 V. The nominal 
capacitances provided by the vendor for VDC = 0, 2, 4, 12, and 
20 V are 1.2, 1.1, 0.65, 0.3, and 0.2 pF, respectively. The dc 
current flowing through the varactor diode when reverse 
biased is relatively small (< 100 nA), and therefore using the 
device does not deteriorate the antenna efficiency. 
The design parameters of the prototype antenna are listed in 
Table II. During the design process, the antenna structure is 
simulated by means of Ansoft HFSS, excluding the RF choke 
inductor and the dc voltage source. For a given VDC, the 
varactor diode is modelled as a capacitor with the 
corresponding capacitance. The simulated reflection 
coefficient responses for the antenna operating at VDC = 0, 2, 4, 
12, and 20 V are plotted in Fig. 6. Obviously, the frequency, 
at which the minimal |S11| occurs, can be tuned within a wide 
range from 1.05 GHz to 2.38 GHz. The measured reflection 
coefficient responses for the prototype antenna operating at 
various VDC ranging from 0 V to 20 V are plotted in Fig. 7. 
Similarly, the frequency tunability can be observed. As VDC is 
increased, the frequency shifts upward, and the bandwidth 
becomes wider. For VDC between 12 and 20 V, the variation in 
capacitance is so small that the frequency or the response 
curve shifts only slightly. For VDC = 0 V, the frequency shifts 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 4.  (a) E-plane and (b) H-plane patterns for the prototype antenna. Solid
line: simulated co-pol., dashed line: measured co-pol., dotted line: simulated
cross-pol., dash-dotted line: measured cross-pol.) 
 
 
Fig. 5.  Configuration of the proposed frequency-agile miniaturized slot 
antenna. 
 
Choice of Host Transmission Line for Inductor-Loaded Zeroth-Order 
Resonator Antenna 
 
Chien-Pai Lai(1), Shih-Yuan Chen*(1), and Hsueh-Jyh Li(2) 
(1) Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan 
University,Taipei 10617, Taiwan 
(2) Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei 10617, Taiwan 
Email: sychen@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw  
 
Recently, the infinite wavelength resonator, also known as the zeroth-order 
resonator, has been widely investigated. To realize the zeroth-order resonator, one 
could use the so-called composite right/left-handed (CRLH) transmission line 
(TL). (C. Caloz and T. Itoh, Electromagnetic Metamaterials, Transmission Line 
Theory and Microwave Application, Wiley, 2005.) The unbalanced CRLH TL 
exhibits a pair of zeroth-order resonances, namely the shunt mode and the series 
mode. However, due to the boundary condition applied to the CRLH TL, either 
open- or short-ended, only one mode could be utilized. Consequently, the unused 
zeroth-order resonance could be removed by simplifying the structure of the 
CRLH TL unit-cell. This then leads to two artificial TL structures: one contains 
only the shunt mode of the zeroth-order resonances and is called the inductor-
loaded (IL) TL (A. Lai, et. al, Infinite wavelength resonator antennas with 
monopolar radiation pattern based on periodic structure, IEEE Trans. Antenna 
Propagat., vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 868-876, Mar. 2007), and the other is the capacitor-
loaded (CL) TL retaining only the series mode. The former is the main focus of 
this work and is investigated using various host TLs. 
 
Here, two of the most commonly-seen TLs, the microstrip line (MSL) and the 
coplanar waveguide (CPW), are separately adopted in the design of the IL zeroth-
order resonator antenna. For the MSL case, several IL zeroth-order resonator 
antennas are designed at about 2.4 GHz and implemented on the Duroid 5880 
substrate (loss tangent = 0.0009) and the FR4 substrate (loss tangent = 0.02), 
respectively. Both simulated and measured results show that, due to the higher 
substrate loss, using the FR4 substrate results in a much lower radiation efficiency 
and gain than using the Duroid 5880. For the CPW case, several IL zeroth-order 
resonator antennas are also implemented using the two substrates. However, the 
associated results reveal that the IL zeroth-order resonator antennas using the 
CPW as the host TL are less susceptible to the substrate loss and thus exhibit 
higher efficiencies and gains than their MSL counterparts using the same 
substrate. The reason may be that the shunt capacitance of the IL MSL is due to 
the capacitance between the signal trace and its ground plane, where a majority of 
the electromagnetic fields are confined within the substrate, and the associated 
energy is damped out. As for the IL CPW, the shunt capacitance results from the 
bilateral gap-coupled capacitance, where the fields are less bounded by the 
substrate. As a result, the IL CPW zeroth-order resonator antenna outperforms its 
MSL counterpart on the same substrate regarding the radiation characteristics. 
CBCPW are S = 2.5 mm and G = 0.8 mm, respectively. The ground plane size 
used in this paper is 50× 50 mm2. All simulations in the followings are carried out 
using the full-wave simulator Ansoft HFSS 11.0.  
 
The measured and simulated return loss responses of the proposed CBCPW-fed 
bilateral slot loop antenna and the CPW-fed slot loop antenna (reference design) 
are shown in Fig. 2. The measured impedance bandwidths (|S11| ≤ -10 dB) of the 
CPW-fed slot loop antenna in the 1st and 2nd slot loop resonances are 20 % (3.05-
3.74 GHz) and 13.4 % (5.5-6.29 GHz), respectively. Those of the 1st slot loop and 
coplanar patch resonances of the proposed antenna are 7.3 % (3.4-3.66 GHz) and 
4.6 % (5.24-5.49 GHz), respectively. The 2nd slot loop resonance diminishes 
because of the coplanar patch resonance. The simulated and measured radiation 
patterns of the proposed antenna at the 1st and 2nd slot loop resonances and the 
coplanar patch resonance are plotted in Figs. 3, 4, and 5, respectively. The 
measured peak gains of the proposed antenna at the associated resonant 
frequencies are 4.7, 1.44 and 3.1 dBi, respectively. Those of the reference design 
at the 1st and 2nd slot loop resonant frequencies are 3.4 and 2.0 dBi, respectively.  
 
Conclusion 
 
The CBCPW-fed bilateral slot loop antenna has been presented. By introducing 
an auxiliary slot underneath the slot loop, not only the slotline mode appears but 
also the microstrip mode exists, which could be used to excite the slot loop and 
coplanar patch antenna, respectively. Compared with the CPW-fed slot loop 
antenna, besides the 1st and 2nd slot loop resonances, the coplanar patch resonance 
also exists in the proposed antenna.  
 
Acknowledgments 
 
This work was supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, under 
Contract NSC 98-2221-E-002 -049, and in part by the National Taiwan University 
under Excellent Research Project NTU-ERP-98R0062-01. 
 
References 
 
[1] K. Li, C. H. Cheng, T. Matsui, and M. Izutsu, “Simulation and experimental 
study on coplanar patch and array antennas,” in Proceedings of 2000 Asia-
Pacific Microwave Conference (APMC 2000), pp. 1411-1414, Sydney, NSW, 
Dec. 2000. 
[2] I-C. Lan, S.-Y. Chen, and P. Hsu, ”Coupled twin slots fed by conductor-
backed coplanar waveguide,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 56, no. 6, 
pp. 1784–1786, Jun. 2008.  
[3] W. H. Haydl, “On the use of vias in conductor-backed coplanar circuits,” 
IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 50, no. 6, pp. 1571–1577, Jun. 
2002. 
 
    
(a) (b) 
Fig. 3. Simulated and measured radiation patterns of the proposed antenna at 3.5 
GHz. (1st slot loop resonance) (a) x-z and (b) y-z planes.  : Measured co-pol, 
 Simulated co-pol, Measured cross-pol,  Simulated cross-pol. 
  
(a)                                   (b) 
Fig. 4. Simulated and measured radiation patterns of the proposed antenna at 6.2 
GHz. (2nd slot loop resonance) (a) x-z and (b) y-z planes.  : Measured co-pol, 
 Simulated co-pol, Measured cross-pol,  Simulated cross-pol. 
  
(a)                                   (b) 
Fig. 5. Simulated and measured radiation patterns of the proposed antenna at 5.4 
GHz. (Coplanar patch resonance) (a) x-z and (b) y-z planes.  : Measured co-
pol,  Simulated co-pol, Measured cross-pol,  Simulated cross-pol. 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                                             2010 年 8 月 25 日 
報告人姓名 陳 士 元 服務機構 及職稱 
國立台灣大學 電信工程學研究所  
助理教授 
會議時間 
會議地點 
2010 年 8 月 16 日 - 19 日 
德國 柏林市 
本會核定 
補助文號  
會議 
名稱 
(中文) 2010 年 國際無線電科學聯盟 電磁理論國際研討會 
(英文) 2010 URSI International Symposium on Electromagnetic Theory 
發表論文 
題目 
(中文) 適用於手持裝置之頻率可調式微型化開槽天線 
(英文) Frequency-Agile, Miniaturized Slot Antenna for Hand-Held Devices 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、 參加會議經過 
本人於台灣時間 2010 年 8 月 12 日晚間 10:45 分，搭乘長榮航空 BR-061 班機，由桃園機場出發，經泰
國-曼谷及奧地利-維也納轉機，於當地時間 8 月 14 日上午九點左右抵達德國-柏林。8 月 15 日傍晚，本人先
至會場 Berlin Steigenberger Hotel 完成報到手續，並參加了當天晚上大會所舉辦的 Get-Together Reception 歡
迎餐會，過程中也與來自新加坡與南韓的幾位教授寒暄。餐會結束後，本人便搭地鐵回到飯店休息，亦趁機
準備接下來的論文報告。 
8 月 16 日上午，本人參加了 Analytic Identities and Limitations in Electromagnetic Theory 小節，在 Morning 
Break 時巧遇了美國 Ohio State University 的 Prof. Jin-Fa Lee，李教授是我熟識的台大電機系老學長，也是在
數值電磁領域國際頂尖的學者，我們也趁機敘舊一番。接著本人參加了 Tutorial 1，題目是 Electromagnetism, 
Nanotechnologies and Biology: New Challenges and Opportunities，討論有關如何以奈米粒子控制電磁場與生物
系統之間的交互作用，以及其發展機會與挑戰。下午則是參加了 Smart Antennas 小節，除了智慧型天線的技
術及演算法外，本小節中也討論了許多 MIMO 天線的系統設計與相關技術。8 月 17 日上午，本人參加了
Electromagnetics for Short-Range Communication 小節，由於近年來近場通訊系統以及人體區域網路(Body-area 
networks)的蓬勃發展，因此該小節中介紹了許多近場通訊與人體區域網路的分析方法。接著是 Poster 
Session，共有近二十篇論文，安排在一個展演聽中，我的論文便是在此小節發表，在一個半小時的展示過程
中，有非常多學者及工業界的先進前來與我討論，其中也提出一些富建設性的意見，使我獲益良多。下午本
人則是參加了 UWB Antennas 的兩個小節，討論各種有趣的超寬頻天線設計及其分析方法。8 月 18 日上午，
本人參加了 Special Antenna Concepts 與 Terahertz Technologies 兩個小節，中午則與 OSU 的 Jin-Fa Lee 教授及
本校的張宏鈞教授相約至會場附近的餐館吃午餐，並討論台大電波組與 OSU ElectroScience Lab 合作的可
能。下午本人則參加了 Antenna Arrays 的兩個小節，討論許多天線陣列的分析與設計方法。當天晚上，本人
參加了大會所舉辦的晚宴，地點剛好在我住飯店附近的猶太博物館，席間並與來自德國的 Roman Edlinger
教授、西班牙的 Valentin de la Rubia 教授、新加坡的 Xudong Chen 教授還有 OSU 的研究員 Zhen Peng 博士等
閒聊，不僅建立自己的學術人脈，也趁機瞭解世界各地的電磁研究風氣。8月19日上午，本人參加了Electrically 
Small Antennas 的兩個小節，討論天線的微小化技術與限制。接著參加了 Tutorial 4，題目是 Analysis and 
Fabrication of Millimeter-Wave Slotted Waveguide Array Antennas，討論波導開槽陣列之饋入結構之分析方法與
簡化的模型。下午則參加了 High-Frequency Methods 小節。 
會議全部結束後，吾人於 8 月 20 日下午 5:10 搭機前往維也納，並於 8 月 22 日晚間 7:35 搭乘長榮航空
BR-062 班機，經泰國-曼谷轉機，於 8 月 23 日傍晚抵達桃園機場，結束了這次收穫豐碩的研討會。 
二、 與會心得 
在本次的研討會中，僅僅張宏鈞教授與我二人來自台灣，而來自日本以外亞洲其他國家研究人員的比
例也不高。或許是因為本研討會的主題偏重理論，而我國近年來在電磁領域研究的投資，受到國內產業發展
的影響，愈來愈走向應用導向，忽略了發展基本理論的重要性。在參加本次研討會後，我覺得國內電磁領域
的研究過於偏重微波系統及元件之設計，對於電磁理論的基礎研究則非常稀少，建議貴會未來可多加鼓勵電
磁領域之理論發展，以提升基礎理論之研究風氣。畢竟，微波元件設計時所用的分析工具仍是根基於電磁理
論及數值電磁方法。 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 省略 
四、 建議 
感謝 貴單位補助此次參與會議之費用，貴單位承辦人員的熱忱與鼎力協助，本人深表感謝之意。 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
大會議程、論文叢集 USB 隨身碟一個及展示會場相關資料。 
The aforementioned miniaturized slot resonator or antenna 
can be fed by a microstrip line as depicted in Fig. 1, which is a 
commonly-seen feeding structure for printed slot antennas 
[16], [18], [19]. Although other feed lines would work as well, 
the microstrip line is used here merely because it facilitates 
the antenna testing. The feeding position of the microstrip line, 
which is Lf away from the short end, is chosen mainly to 
obtain an appropriate input resistance, say 50 Ω, while the 
microstrip open stub of length Ls is used to tune out the input 
reactance. As a result, the input impedance matching can 
readily be achieved for the antenna. However, adjusting Lf and 
Ls would also affect the resonant frequency though slightly. 
Based on the design concept presented in the preceding 
subsection, it is straightforward to shorten the length (L) of the 
slot antenna shown in Fig. 1 through properly adjusting C. 
Given a target resonant frequency of 1.575 GHz, the C values 
calculated via (1) for L = 25, 20, 15, and 10 mm are 0.60, 0.91, 
1.38, and 2.25 pF, respectively. In all the cases, the slot width 
W is fixed at 1 mm. Then, they are analysed using Ansoft 
HFSS v.10. It is not surprising that the C values need some 
fine-tuning to make the slot antennas resonate exactly at the 
target frequency. The “exact” C value that ensures the target 
resonance can thus be acquired for each design. Note that to 
obtain a better input matching at the target frequency, minor 
adjustment in Lf and Ls is necessary. The simulated reflection 
coefficient responses for the miniaturized slot antennas with 
various L and the associated “exact” C are plotted in Fig. 2. 
One can see that simply by increasing the termination 
capacitance C, the slot length L can be significantly shortened 
without affecting the resonant frequency. Moreover, as one 
may expect, the impedance bandwidth obtained narrows as L 
is made shorter, but even though L is reduced to 10 mm, 
which is only 1/19 of a free-space wavelength, the associated 
bandwidth (3.8%) still remains acceptable. The simulated 
bandwidths for those antennas are tabulated in Table I along 
with the C values and other design parameters. 
C. Experimental verification using chip capacitor 
For verification, the design with L = 15 mm in Table I was 
fabricated and tested. The termination capacitor used is a 0.9-
pF 0402 monolithic ceramic capacitor from Murata 
Manufacturing Co., Ltd. The 0.9-pF capacitor is used instead 
of the C value of 0.85 pF because of the availability. The 
simulated and measured return-loss responses are plotted in 
Fig. 3, and they are in good agreement. The small frequency 
shift between them may be attributed to the uncertainty in the 
nominal capacitance of the chip capacitor used in the 
prototype antenna as well as the fabrication error. In addition, 
the simulated and measured radiation patterns for the antenna 
are shown in Fig. 4. The broadside bidirectional pattern 
L
Lf
W
Capacitor
Top metal Ground plane
Ls
w
Wg
Lg
x
y
 
Fig. 1.  Geometry of the microstrip-line-fed miniaturized slot antenna
terminated by a lumped capacitor. 
 
TABLE I 
Design Parameters and Simulated Bandwidths for the 1.575-GHz 
Miniaturized Slot Antennas. 
L 
(mm) 
C (pF) 
by (1) 
C (pF) 
from HFSS 
Lf 
(mm) 
Ls 
(mm) 
10-dB return-
loss bandwidth 
25 0.60 0.27 7 12.3 35.4% 
20 0.91 0.53 5 12 18.7% 
15 1.38 0.85 4 10 9.0% 
10 2.25 1.36 4 6.3 3.8% 
In all the designs, W = 1 mm, w = 1.52 mm, Wg = 40 mm, Lg = 80 mm, and 
the FR4 substrate of thickness 0.8 mm is used. 
 
 
Fig. 2.  Simulated reflection coefficient responses for the microstrip-line-fed 
miniaturized slot antennas with various L. 
 
|S
11
| (
dB
)
 
Fig. 3.  Simulated and measured reflection coefficient responses for the 
prototype antenna (L = 15 mm). 
 430
down to 0.78 GHz, but the input matching deteriorates. 
Nevertheless, the frequency of the prototype antenna is 
tunable between 0.78 GHz and 2.09 GHz. The frequency 
tuning range of the proposed antenna is in general determined 
by the maximal and minimal capacitances that the varactor 
diode can provide as well as the input matching condition of 
the antenna when operating far off the reference frequency or 
bias voltage, at which Ls and Lf were chosen for the optimal 
matching. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The miniaturization of printed slot antennas using a 
capacitive termination has been presented based on a simple 
resonator model. The boundary condition needed for 
resonance has been realized by placing a chip capacitor across 
the slot at the truncated open end, of which the capacitance 
can be approximately calculated. By utilizing a varactor diode 
instead of a chip capacitor, a miniaturized slot antenna having 
a tunable resonant frequency has been demonstrated. The 
prototype antenna exhibited a continuously tunable resonant 
frequency between 0.78 GHz and 2.09 GHz as the bias 
voltage is adjusted from 0 V to 20 V. Due to the simple and 
planar structure, the proposed design is suitable for use in 
hand-held devices.  
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the National Science Council, 
Taiwan under contract NSC-98-2221-E-002-049, and in part 
by the National Taiwan University under Excellent Research 
Project NTU-ERP-98R0062-01. 
REFERENCES 
[1] H. Kim and Y. J. Yoon, “Compact microstrip-fed meander slot antenna 
for harmonic suppression,” Electron. Lett., vol. 39, no. 10, pp. 762-763, 
May 2003. 
[2] S.-Y. Chen and P. Hsu, “CPW-fed folded-slot antenna for 5.8 GHz 
RFID tags,” Electron. Lett., vol. 40, no. 24, pp. 1516-1517, Nov. 2004. 
[3] S. Latif, L. Shafai, and S. Sharma, “Bandwidth enhancement and size 
reduction of microstrip slot antennas,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., 
vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 994-1003, Mar. 2005. 
[4] R. Azadegan and K. Sarabandi, “A novel approach for miniaturization 
of slot antennas,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 51, no. 3, pp. 
421-429, Mar. 2003. 
[5] N. Behdad, and K. Sarabandi, “Bandwidth enhancement and further 
size reduction of a class of miniaturized slot antennas,” IEEE Trans. 
Antennas Propag., vol. 52, No. 8, pp. 1928-1935, Aug. 2004. 
[6] D. Schaubert, F. Farrar, A. Sindoris, and S. Hayes, “Microstrip 
antennas with frequency agility and polarization diversity,” IEEE 
Trans. Antennas Propag. vol. 29,  no. 1, pp. 118-123, Jan. 1981. 
[7] P. Bartia and I. Bahl, “Frequency agile microstrip antennas,” 
Microwave Journal, vol. 25, pp. 67-70, Oct. 1982. 
[8] G. Le Ray, M. Himdi, and J. Daniel, “Frequency agile slot-fed patch 
antenna,” Electron. Lett., vol .32, no. 1, pp. 2-3, Jan. 1996. 
[9] N. Karmakar, “Shorting strap tunable stacked patch PIFA,” IEEE 
Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 52, no. 11, pp. 2877-2884, Nov. 2004. 
[10] C. Kalialakis and P. Hall, “Analysis and experiment on harmonic 
radiation and frequency tuning of varactor-loaded microstrip 
antennas,” IET Microwaves, Antennas Propag., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 527-
535, Apr. 2007. 
[11] D. Peroulis, K. Sarabandi, and L. Katehi, “Design of reconfigurable 
slot antennas,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 645-
654, Feb. 2005. 
[12] N. Behdad and K. Sarabandi, “A varactor-tuned dual-band slot 
antenna,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 54, no. 2 pp. 401-408, 
Feb. 2006. 
[13] N. Behdad and K. Sarabandi, “Dual-band reconfigurable antenna with 
a very wide tunability range,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 54, 
no. 2, pp. 409-416, Feb. 2006. 
[14] S. Nikolaou, R. Bairavasubramanian, C. Lugo, I. Carrasquillo, D. 
Thompson, G. Papapolymerou, and M. Tentzeris, “Pattern and 
frequency reconfigurable annular slot antenna using PIN diodes,” IEEE 
Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 439-448, Feb. 2006. 
[15] K. Van Caekenberghe, and K. Sarabandi, “A 2-Bit Ka-Band RF 
MEMS Frequency Tunable Slot Antenna,” IEEE Antennas Wireless 
Propag. Lett., vol. 7, pp. 179-182, 2008. 
[16] K. C. Gupta, P. Garg, I. Bahl, and P. Bhartia, Microstrip Lines and 
Slotlines, 2nd ed. Norwood, MA: Artec House, 1996. 
[17] S.-Y. Chen, I-C. Lan, and P. Hsu, “In-line series-feed collinear slot 
array fed by a coplanar waveguide,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., 
vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 1739-1744, Jun. 2007. 
[18] Y. Yoshimura, “A microstripline slot antenna,” IEEE Trans. 
Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 20, no. 11, pp. 760-762, Nov. 1972. 
[19] M. Kahrizi, T. Sarkar, and Z. Maricevic, “Analysis of a wide radiating 
slot in the ground plane of a microstrip line,” IEEE Trans. Microwave 
Theory Tech., vol. 41, pp. 29-37, Jan. 1993. 
TABLE II 
Geometric Parameters of the Varactor-Loaded, Miniaturized Slot Antenna. 
(Unit: mm) 
L W w Lf Ls Lg Wg l g 
20 2 1.52 4.5 13 80 30 2.5 1 
In the design, the FR4 substrate of thickness 0.8 mm is used. The RF choke 
inductor of 20 μH and the two DC blocking capacitors of 20 pF are used. 
 
|S
11
| (
dB
)
 
Fig. 6.  Simulated reflection coefficient responses for the proposed antenna 
operating at various VDC. 
 
0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
Frequency (GHz)
0 V
1 V
2 V
4 V
6 V
8 V
10 V
12 V
16 V
20 V
 
Fig. 7.  Measured reflection coefficient for the frequency-agile prototype 
antenna operating at various VDC. 
 432
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳士元 計畫編號：98-2221-E-002-049- 
計畫名稱：導磁係數為負之超穎物質之分析與天線應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 5 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 8 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 3 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
