 2
中文摘要 
網際網路的運作皆需依賴 DNS (Domain Name System) 伺服器所提供的服務，雖
然 DNS 只是一個專門提供網域名稱與網路位址對映的服務機制，事實上 DNS 卻是非
常重要的一項網際網路基礎服務。一旦攻擊者針對 DNS 系統漏洞或是應用軟體弱點
而入侵系統並竄改 DNS 轄區資料庫的資料後，有可能使得 DNS 伺服器無法提供正常
服務之外，亦可能演變成網路欺騙等惡意行為，造成受害者在金錢上的損失或是其它
無法想像的損害。因此，DNS 伺服器能否提供具有完整性與不可否認性的網域資訊，
將是最基本而重要的工作。所幸目前由 IETF 的 DNSEXT (DNS Extensions) Working 
Group 所發展出一套 DNSSEC(DNS Security Extensions)機制，即是用來防治網域欺騙
(DNS spoofing)的攻擊。本研究根據 DNSSEC 機制發展出 DNS 安全防護暨驗證系統，
以期藉由此系統能夠協助 DNS 管理者強化其 DNS 伺服器在通訊協定的安全弱點，降
低因 DNS Spoofing 攻擊而造成網路使用者的金錢或其它損失，同時有效地增進網際網
路應用服務之安全性。 
關鍵詞：DNS、DNSSEC、網際網路、網路安全 
 
Abstract 
The entire Internet operations depend on the domain name service that provided by DNS 
(Domain Name System) servers. Though DNS is a service that provided domain name translates 
into IP address only, in fact DNS is an essential part of the Internet infrastructure. Once 
malicious attacker using the vulnerabilities of DNS system or application service, then they 
could falsify the zone database in DNS, it not only can’t provide domain name service normally, 
but also changed into network spoofing behavior, and make the victims to lose of money and/or 
the other damage that we can’t imagine. Therefore, it is a very important and essential work that 
DNS servers should provide with the integrity and non-repudiation of domain name service. 
Fortunately, the DNSSEC (DNS Security Extensions) that had developed collectively by 
DNSEXT (DNS Extensions) Working Group of IETF is a secure mechanism that can prevent 
DNS spoofing attack. This research depends on the DNSSEC mechanism to develop an easy 
security protection and validation system for DNS server. We expect this system will help DNS 
administrator to make DNS server more safeties, and reduced the attack of DNS Spoofing. At 
the same time, it could improve the security of Internet application service. 
Keywords：DNS, DNSSEC, Network Security, Internet. 
 4
administrators to employ for replicating the databases containing the DNS data across a set of 
DNS servers [13]. In process 4 and 5, resolvers are making use of their DNS server, and send the 
request to caching forwarder, when caching forwarder gain the response from other DNS servers, 
it would pass response to resolvers, and the answers would stored in caching forwarder, and 
respond to new resolvers if request is the same as last time. 
 
Fig. 1 data flow of DNS 
Recently, there are many articles discuss the DNS security issues [1] [4] [5-7] [12]. DNS 
security can be divided into three parts, and they are the network infrastructure security of DNS 
server location, the security of operating system and the security of DNS application service. 
According to the description of John Holmblad [6], there are many DNS security issues such as 
spoofing of DNS responses, cache poisoning, Email spoofing, exploit of known security related 
software faults, improper DNS configuration, high profile and successful attacks in DNS server. 
Jürgen Pfleger illustrated there are two objectives that a hacker used cache-poisoning techniques, 
one is for DoS attack, the other one is masquerading as a trusted entity and redirect the victim 
connect to malicious site [7]. 
There are three famous DNS attacks we often hear, they are DNS spoofing, DNS ID hacking 
and DNS cache poisoning that Florent Carli expound, and two kinds of attacks can aim at the 
server instead of the DNS protocol itself, because there are many vulnerabilities in DNS software 
or in any other running service on the DNS server and attacked by Denial of Service [4]. The 
majority of the DNS weaknesses [1] [14], Diane Davidowicz illustrated and recommended by 
Aniello Del Sorbo, they are cache poisoning, client flooding, dynamic update vulnerability, 
information leakage and compromise of DNS server’s authoritative data. 
According to RIPE NCC point out, and sum up above we described, the vulnerabilities in 
DNS described in Fig. 2 as following [20]. In order to solve the problem as above we illustrated 
that DNS protocol security, the first relate to DNS security involving against to fraudulent 
behavior with DNS protocol, and named as Domain Name System Security Extensions is RFC 
2535 [2].  
DNSSEC is the security mechanism of digital sign, it used signature to provide the data 
integrity and authentication. The DNS resolver is able to checking signature if the information is 
identical to the info on the authoritative DNS server. Although DNSSEC was designed to protect 
the Internet against certain attacks, however it does not provide confidentiality of data, and it also 
doesn’t protect against DoS Attacks [17]. Two main functions of DNSSEC are provided safe 
 6
system combined with ISC BIND that the most popular DNS servers have been used at present. 
According to our objective that described above, we expect to develop five functions as 
following to arrive the goal of we want to do: 
1. Key management of DNSSEC that is essential function to implement such secure 
mechanism; 
2. The interface of TSIG that could protect communication between DNS servers; 
3. The interface of SIG (0) that could secure zone data in DNS servers; 
4. The valid interface that could verify resource records are validity or not; and 
5. The dynamic update interface that could increase flexibility of resource records 
management. 
In the security protection and validation system, there are 5 main functions and 6 roles as 
show in Fig. 3, the function we had described upon above and the roles are: 
1. SOA server: the SOA server is a DNS server, and everyone must to register and gain an 
account when they want to join and use this system to protect they DNS server. 
2. Key management: the Key management could offer many kind of keys that other function 
needed, like TSIG function need the HMAC-MD5 key and SIG(0) function need RSA or 
DSA keys, and the dynamic update function need the key which come from key 
management to update the zone file. 
 
Fig. 3 System framework  
3. Zone file updater: this role is used to update zone file in master DNS server with key, and it 
couldn’t update the slave DNS servers’ zone file, because the origin data of slave DNS 
server is come from master DNS server, it is asynchronous data if updater is only updating 
slave DNS server, when the servers are processing zone transfer and the data in slave DNS 
server that updater had updated would disappear. 
4 and 5. Master and Slave DNS server: the DNS server would offer the domain name and IP 
address for any user when they want. In master DNS server, administrator can starting the 
SIG(0) function to zone file and starting the TSIG function to slave DNS server, and slave 
DNS server also can starting TSIG function with master DNS server and protect the 
communication between them. 
6. resolvers: the resolvers can gain the information, include IP address, RRSIG, DNSKEY and 
the other information, and the resolvers can using those information to verify the answer is 
valid or not. 
 8
SIG (0) function. Note that the DS resource record is newer than the other, in this system we 
develop doesn’t including this resource record. 
 
Fig. 6 SIG(0) secured zone data function 
 
D. Valid function for Resource Records 
Valid function could verify the signatures of RRs, because it not only need the signatures 
that produced by the key of public key mechanism, but also need a valid function to ensure the 
signature’s accuracy that signature have been falsify or not. Before we valid the signature, we 
must acquired the related parameters, we can extract those parameters form DNSKEY and 
RRSIG records in the DNS server’s response message.  
 
Fig.7  Valid function 
E. Dynamic Update for Zone Data function 
The functions of dynamic update included the operations of RRs, such as add, delete and 
modify etc; and the attributes of RRs included IP address, TTL, Type and domain name, this 
function could provide a interface for administrator who can manage their zone databases. 
 
Fig.8 Dynamic update zone data function 
 
IV. SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATION 
This section will illustrate the system environment and develop tools we use, and overview 
the implementation of our system. This system including 5 functions and they are key 
management, TSIG communication protected function, SIG (0) secured zone data function, 
dynamic update zone data function and valid function. The developed environment of this system 
 10
in Fig.11, to replace string if you want to change different language. 
 
Fig.11 multiLanguage.java 
B. Key Management 
Key management is the basic function of this system, there are four sub functions in key 
management, these are key generator, keys annul and key authenticate. Fig.12 is shown the 
DNSKEY lists in key management and it display the DNSKEY name, its algorithms and key 
length.  
 
Fig.12 DNSKEY lists in Key management 
The key generator show in Fig.13, and there are four options to choose different DNSKEY’s 
algorithms, they are HMAC-MD5, DSA, RSAMD5 and RSASHA1.  
 
Fig.13 Key generators in key management 
If the administrators want to get the authentication key from his/her SOA server, and then 
he/she have to transfer his/her DNSKEY to upper DNS server (SOA server), when SOA server 
received the request, and then it would authenticate the DNSKEY that come from administrators 
DNS server. As Fig.12, the administrator choose a key he/she want to send to SOA server and 
gain authentication, and then click “Send to SOA” button, the key will send to SOA server after 
these action. And then, the SOA server would receive the DNSKEY that come from lower DNS 
 12
function to secure zone data that stored in Master DNS server.  
 
Fig.17 SIG (0) secured zone data function 
The zone file will add several new resource records, if start the SIG (0) function, and these 
resource records are RRSIG, DNSKEY, NSEC. Therefore, we design several functions to add 
these new resource records, and the sign process of SIG (0) function. 
E. Dynamic Update Zone Data Function 
In dynamic update zone data function, administrator can use this function to add, delete and 
update the resource records securely.  
 
Fig.18 Dynamic update zone data function 
F. Valid Function 
The Valid function is very easy to use, DNS administrator just need to key in the domain 
name, which stored in this DNS server that they want to verify, and click “OK” button, and then a 
messages will tell you that domain name you key in is correct or not. 
 
Fig.19 Valid function to verify RRs 
In order to ensure the accuracy of signature, we must to check the signature has been 
falsified or not. Before to verify the signature we must acquired the related parameters, those 
 14
 
Table 3 the parameters, size of DNSKEY of RSA/MD5 and RSA/SHA-1 
DNSKEY 
Parameters SIZE 
exponent length 1 or 3 octet 
exponent As exponent length value 
modulus Other is modulus 
 
Table 4 the parameters, size of RRSIG of RSA/MD5 and RSA/SHA-1 
RRSIG 
Parameters Values 
hash MD5 (data) 
prefix 3020300c06082a864886f70d020505000410 (based on HEX) 
e exponent in DNSKEY 
n modulus in DNSKEY 
signature ( 00 | 01 | FF* | 00 | prefix | hash ) ** e (mod n) 
specified 00、01、FF*、00 is fixed octet (based on HEX) 
 
V. Conclusion  
The implementation of DNSSEC is tedious and annoying work for administrator, for 
instance, the setting process of configuration file, the operations of key management, and how to 
secure zone data, etc. In this paper, we developed the Easy Security Protection and Validation 
System for DNS server. It has the advantages as following:  
1. Reduce tedious processes while using the mechanism of DNSSEC and administrator can use 
this system to promote DNSSEC mechanism easily.  
2. It decreases the mistakes during these establishing procedures.  
3. The key management we design and the program are able to assist with every DNS 
administrator, when they want to use those key to protect their zone easily and conveniently. 
4. If DNS administrator adopted this system, they can protect their zone transfer between DNS 
servers and update Resource Records easily. 
5. DNS administrator can provide secure messages (RRs) to every resolver easily, and resolver 
also can verify those messages that received from DNS server is correct or not, avoid 
resolver to visit malicious sites in Internet. 
Then DNS server’s administrator can be able to defense against DNS spoofing attack, 
because our system can provided help for DNS server’s administrator make DNS server to 
strengthen, and reduced the attack of DNS Spoofing, hence we reduce the damages of DNS 
spoofing attack against to malicious attacker. At the same time, it could improve the security of 
network applications. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Aniello Del Sorbo, “Network Security Sk-DNSSEC: an alternative to the Public Key 
