Ꮲғჹࣴز΢ޑόӕࡘԵǶԜԛ཮᝼Չำ࣬྽ᙦ൤Ǵ཮᝼ය໔Ψٮᔈ
࣬྽ᙦ౰ޑݤԄϱᓓǴ؂ 10 ঁΓൎ΋༝ਫޑӼ௨٬ᏢޣॺૈӧԜਔ
ᆶόӕ୯ৎޑ஑ৎᏢޣӅ຾ϱᓓᆶ໕ಠǴቚ຾۶Ԝᇡ᛽Ҭࢬޑᐒ཮Ƕ
Βǵʳ ᆶ཮Јள
ܭᏢғ߃፯ΕԜࣴزሦୱਔǴ܌ࣴ᠐ޑයтፕЎቬቬёـЇҔ
µTAS཮᝼ޑЎകǴԜ୯ሞ཮᝼ӧ༾ڼԯࣚڀԖߚதεޑቹៜΚϷ࣬
྽ޑࡰ኱܄ǴӢԜԾٗਔ໒ۈᏢғΨҥדा׫བୖᆶԜ཮᝼Ƕҁԛಖ
ܭԖԜᐒ཮ᆶ೚ӭޕӜޑᏢޣӅᆫ΋୸٠ว߄ЎകǴзᏢғుགᄪ
۩Ƕ᏾ঁ཮᝼࣬྽֧ᢀ౰εǴӀࢂፕЎ൩ςӑᅈΑٿεҁࠆࠆޑᆒး
ਜᝤǴ㚵৒࣬྽ᙦ൤ᆶബཥǶᏢғӧಡ᠋ᆶ૸ፕύԏ໣Α೚ӭၗ਑ᆶ
ၗૻ٠௴วεတബཥࡘԵǴԜՉޑԏᕇӭډคݤقേǶ᏾ঁᆶ཮Γγ
ύǴኻऍ՞ε೽ҽǴܿБΓаВҁΓനӭǴٰԾѠ᡼ޑ࣬྽ϿǶѠ᡼
ӧԜԛ཮᝼܌ว߄ޑЎകऊ14ጇǴך୯ӧԜᏢೌሦୱύޑࣴزᗋό୼
ँр٬ךัགᒪᏬǶҗܭᏢғޑमЎૈΚද೯ǴԶԜԛኻऍޑΓγ࣬
྽ӭǴЀځኻࢪΓᆶВҁΓΨԖαॣόӕޑୢᚒǴ٬ᏢғԖਔၶډ᠋
όᔉޑ௃ݩǴ໻ૈ᎞ર฽ྎ೯ǴзᏢғགډ਻ᎨǴࡺӣ୯ࡕᏢғा༇
ግमЎ᠋ᇥޑૈΚǴаය҂ٰԖᐒ཮ྎ೯ਔωό཮གډᒪᏬǶ
Οǵځд
җܭ୯ࣽ཮ᆶ௲ػ೽ीฝံշᐒ౻ᆶຏн฻຤ҔǴ٬Ꮲғૈ୼໩
ճޑᇻॅЃᎿୖуԜԛ཮᝼٠ܗ৖୯ሞᢀǴӧԜҗ૱གᖴǶ!
!
was formed by standard photolithographic process and it enabled direct bonding with 
another substrate (with or without another SU-8 layer) after oxygen plasma treatment. The 
performance of the materials were verified by using the Raman spectroscopy to analyze the 
possible changes on chemical structure, measuring contact angle to characterize 
hydrophilicity, and several tests to confirm the bonding ability. The bonding quality can be 
evaluation by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), tensile strength measurements and 
hydrodynamic tests.
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION   
Hydrophilic SU-8 mixture is the key materials in the present study, and its features need 
to be further characterized. Therefore, we first conducted the Raman spectroscopy test. 
From the comparison of Raman tests, we supposed that the oxyethylene groups (-
OCH2CH2-) of migrating surfactant provided better hydrophilicity in surfactant-added SU-8
film. Upon oxygen plasma treatment, the surfactant molecules were cleaved forming 
hydroxyl groups and further enhanced the hydrophilicity of the surface. We suggested that 
the hydrophilicity and bonding ability were enhanced by both oxyethylene groups and 
hydroxyl groups. Second, we have measured the contact angle on the glass coated with pure 
base SU-8 layer (0%) and with surfactant-added SU-8 layer (10% without and with oxygen 
treatment), the results are shown in Figure 2. The water droplet spreads slowly on the pure
SU-8 layer, yet quickly on the surfactant-added SU-8 layer. The results indicate that we 
have changed the hydrophilicity of SU-8 by adding certain surfactant (hydrophilic SU-8). 
Figure 2.  Changes of contact angle of the working liquid on the glass coated with pure base SU-8 
layer (square) and with surfactant-added SU-8 layer (10%) without (circle) and with (triangle) oxygen 
treatment.
To further study the performance which can be expected of this bonding method, we 
have conducted several bonding tests, the results are listed in Table 1. From Tests No 1-3 
and Figure 3, it is seen that the hydrophilic SU-8 we employed possessed bonding ability 
and could define structure satisfactorily (the concentration of surfactant should be less than 
30%). From Tests No 4-5, it can be seen that various structure thickness and adhesive 
material provide satisfactory bonding quality. From the results of Tests No 6-8 and Figure 4, 
the hydrophilic SU-8 bonding technique also has good compatibility in the integration with 
other substrates (glass, Si, PDMS). By utilizing multiple layers of hydrophilic SU-8, we 
were able to bond two patterned substrates to create 3D channel structure (Test No 9). The 
strength of the bonding was about 2–14 kg cm-2 which is adequate for microfluidic 
୯ࣽ཮ीฝံշрৢ୯ሞ཮᝼ൔ֋!
!!!!!
ൔ֋ΓۉӜ! ഋՙཁ! ཮᝼ය໔ϷӦᗺ :702108:7021022!
ݤ୯ЃᎿ!
཮᝼Ӝᆀ! )ύЎ*!ಃ 22 ۛϯᏢᆶғڮࣽᏢ༾ࠠϯ୯ሞ཮᝼!
)मЎ*!NjdspUBT!3118!
ว߄ፕЎᚒҞ! )ύЎ*ճҔᒃН܄ TV9 Ӏߔֹԋཥௗӝמೌ!
)मЎ*Opwfm!cpoejoh!ufdiojrvf!vtjoh!izespqijmjd!TV.9!
΋ǵʳ ୖу཮᝼࿶ၸ
Ꮲғܭ 10Д 7Вམ४ߏᄪ੤ᐒ߻۳ݤ୯ЃᎿୖуಃ 11ۛϯᏢ
ᆶғڮࣽᏢ༾ࠠϯ୯ሞ཮᝼ȐThe 11th International Conference 
onMiniaturized Systems for Chemistry and Life Sciences, µTAS 2007ȑǴ
ҁԛ཮᝼ӦᗺӧЃᎿಃ 19୔ޑ܎ᆢယ੝ύЈȐLe Centre des Congrès 
de la Villette at la Cité des Sciences et de l'IndustrieȑǶԜࣴ૸཮ӧ༾ڼ
ԯሦୱߚதڀԖख़ा܄ǴҁԛൔӜୖᆶΓኧຬၸ΋ίΓǴவ 980ጇޑ
׫ዺЎകύᒧڗ 66ጇαᓐว߄ᆶ 531ጇੇൔว߄Ǵೕኳ࣬྽౰εǶ
཮᝼ϣ৒ϩࣁϤঁЬᚒǺMicrofluidics ǵMicrofabrication ǵ
Nanotechnology ǵMaterial & Surfaces ǵApplications ǵDetection 
Technologies ǴځΠΞӚձಒϩ೚ӭԛ໨ҞǶᏢғว߄ޑЎകឦܭ
Microfabrication ۭΠޑ MEMS & NEMS Technologies - Micro and 
Nano-Machining ٠ܭ 10 Д 9 ВаੇൔࠠԄว߄Ǵٿλਔޑ
presentationය໔ԖΒΜӭΓჹҁЎകሥགᑫ፪٠ග ǴୢԜය໔ํడค
ޜᔞҶ৲ǴՠӧԜਔޑ૸ፕҬࢬ٬ᏢғԏᕇߚதӭǶќѦǴᏢғჹܭ
MicrofluidicsǵMaterial & Surfacescک Detection Technologiesࡐགᑫ
፪ǴΨӧځѬਔ໔ࣴ᠐೽ҽЎക٠ᆶว߄ޣҬࢬǴԖ೚ӭ೽ҽૈ௴ว
NOVEL BONDING TECHNIQUE
USING HYDROPHILIC SU-8 
Yu-Tzu Chen and Denz Lee* 
Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, ROC. 
ABSTRACT 
This paper presents a novel bonding technique for fabricating microfluidic devices with 
surfactant-added SU-8 (hydrophilic SU-8) as structure. The technique is based on an 
adhesive wafer bonding process. The hydrophilic SU-8 plays the roles of adhesive layer as 
well as structural layer. Due to its special feature, the layer can be directly bonded to 
various substrates (glass, silicon or poly(dimethylsiloxane)) after oxygen plasma treatment. 
The present bonding technique does not need another SU-8 adhesive layer for bonding. 
Neither is an expensive bonding system needed. The technique is fast, convenient, secure 
and inexpensive with standard photolithography. 
Keywords: bonding, hydrophilic, SU-8 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Bonding has been an important process in the fabrication of microfluidic devices.
Recently, adhesive bonding has drawn certain attention. The main advantages include low 
bonding temperature, low sensitivity to surface roughness, compatibility with the existing 
fabrication processes and ability to join various substrate materials. High bonding strength 
can be achieved in simple, robust, low cost processes. In common practices [1-3], most 
adhesive bonding techniques need elevated temperature and pressure in certain equipments, 
or need fabricated SU-8 layers on both top and bottom substrates to be bonded by 
crosslinking reaction. It requires more complex and time-consuming processes. In the 
present study, we propose a new method to fabricate a sealed microchannel differs from 
previous works in the specific material of surfactant-added SU-8.  
2. EXPERIMENTAL
We use the hydrophilic SU-8 photoresist which is a mixture of photodefinable epoxy 
S U - 8  a n d  t r i s i l o x a n e  a l k o x y l a t e  s u r f a c t a n t  ( S i l w e t * 6 1 8 , 
GE)([(CH3)3SiO]2CH3Si(CH2)3O(CH2CH2O)8CH3) as the adhesive layer as well as the 
structural material. Fabrication procedure is shown in Figure 1. The microstructure 
Figure 1. Diagram of the fabrication process. 
