表 Y04 
Abstract 
Image Inpainting is an iterative method for repairing damaged pictures or removing 
unnecessary elements from pictures.  
In this research project, our investigation aims in developing faster and reliable image 
inpainting and texture synthesis techniques and associated components to remove defects or user 
selected objects in computing environments, such as Cluster and Grids. Through combination or 
adaptation of existing image inpainting and texture synthesis techniques with parallel computing 
techniques, the main goal is to speed up the application‟s overall execution, reducing the global 
execution time.  
 
1. Introduction 
Digital inpainting and texture synthesis are interesting research topics in multimedia 
computing and image processing for many years. In this project, it is covered recent contributions in 
digital image inpainting / image completion and video inpainting for Multicore cluster or grid 
computing environments.  
This project discusses the above techniques founded in top projects, including also a few 
interesting researches by the authors which are also presented. 
 
2. Goal 
The goal in this project is regarded to the developing faster and reliable image and video 
inpainting techniques and associated components to remove defects or user selected objects in 
computing environments as Multicore Clusters and Grids. Through combination or adaptation of 
existing image inpainting and texture synthesis techniques with parallel computing techniques, the 
main goal is to speed up the application‟s overall execution, reducing the global execution time. 
That is, the image inpainting algorithm consists in filling in part of an image or video using 
information from the surrounding area. Applications of this technique include the restoration of 
damaged photographs and movies and the removal of selected objects. We envision the feasibility 
of running such algorithm in Multicore Cluster and Grid computing environments, speeding up the 
execution of the algorithm by interpolating a number of efficient parallel computations techniques. 
 
3. Methods/Algorithms Investigated 
 
－Exemplar-based: Algorithm proposed for removing large objects from digital images, which 
challenge is to fill in the hole that is left behind in a visually plausible way, by combining the 
advantages of two approaches above mentioned. A best-first algorithm is proposed in which the 
表 Y04 
Professor Timothy Shih‟s authoring tool. Due to existing challenge in building a video narrative 
authoring tool is to generate a spectacular dynamic background. Dynamic textures are very hard to 
create. For dynamic background panorama generation, Rav-Acha et al. proposed dynamic mosaics 
by sweeping the aligned space-time volume of the input video by a time front surface and by 
generating a sequence of time slices. The algorithm can control dynamic background speed. Texture 
of the dynamic background is used to extend the length of video. The algorithm we proposed here is 
inspired by this approach named this method as “motion inpainting.” 
 
4. Parallelization Process of Inpainting algorithms 
 
－ OpenMP: OpenMP Application Program Interface (API) supports multi-platform 
shared-memory parallel programming in C/C++ on multicore and SMP architectures. It is portable 
and scalable model that gives shared-memory parallel programmers a simple and flexible interface 
for developing parallel applications for platforms ranging from the desktop to Clusters and Grids. 
Some major characteristics include: shared memory, thread-based parallelism, explicit parallelism, 
fork- join model, compiler-directive based, nested parallelism support, and I/O. 
 
－MPI: Language-independent communications protocol used to program parallel computers. It is 
a message-passing application programmer interface (API), together with protocol and semantic 
specifications for how its features must behave in any implementation. Its goals are high 
performance, scalability, and portability, and both point-to-point and collective communication are 
supported. It has become a de facto standard for communication among processes that model a 
parallel program running on a distributed memory systems. 
 
5. Experimental Platforms 
We have developed a heterogeneous Multicore CPU cluster computing platform for our 
experiments, by interconnecting a number of computing resources (PCs, SMPs, Blade server, NAS, 
among others). 
表 Y04 
 
 
 
Famous "cracked-plate" photograph of Abraham Lincoln taken by Alexander Gardner on February 5, 1865 – Image 
inpainting  (a)Original(b)Fast Inpainting(c)PDE Inpainting (d)TV Inpainting 
 
Discussions of the experimental results are twofold. The former is regarding to the quality of 
image. We have observed that there is room for improvements, although speedups have been 
achieved in computation. We are investigating data localization and storage in different hierarchies 
of memory, data access by concurrent threads in parallel regions and policies, network transmission 
of data among computing nodes and data exchange scheduling. The latter is regarded to the 
complexity of images for inpainting. We have detected that the complexity of sample images to be 
inpainted is strictly related to algorithm being applied to that particular sample image. We intend to 
go further on this matter.  
 
7. Conclusions 
Studies, analysis, design and implementation of widely known and sequential inpainting and 
表 Y04 
2nd year Graduate students 
1. 陳繼銘 
2. 涂化衍 
 
4
th
 year undergrad students /1st year Graduate Students (五年一貫) 
1. 古振浩 
2. 洪肇鴻 
3. 郭宏哲 
4. 魏志銘 
 
6.2 大學專題研究 
1. 古振浩、洪肇鴻、郭宏哲，”在雲端計算環境之影像修補方法的設計與效能評估”  (99 學
年度) 
2. 魏志銘、黃柏諺、鄭羽珊、黃子洋，” 在多核心處理器計算環境之 Navier-Stokes 效能評
估”  (99 學年度) 
3. 陳俐雯、黃文奇，”校園格網平台之入口網站 GUI”  (98 學年度)  
4. 陳繼銘、涂化衍、林建宏，”於多核心多處理器系統平台架構下之 Pthread 平行程式的效
能評估”  (97 學年度) 
5. 張爵宇、黃泓文、詹稚凡，”OpenMP 平行程式與效能評估”  (97 學年度) 
 
6.3  論文 
1. Timothy K. Shih, Joseph C. Tsai, Kuan-Ching Li, “Video Narrative Authoring with Motion 
Inpainting”, in MPVA’2010 Workshop on Multimodal Pervasive Video Analysis, in conjunction 
with ACM Multimedia‟2010, Italy, 2010 
2. 陳繼銘、魏志銘、廖偉敦、翁添雄、李冠憬，”在多核心處理器技術下影像修補之平行方
法”，TANET‟2010 台灣網際網路研討會 
3. 涂化衍、古振浩、郭宏哲、洪肇鴻、廖偉敦、翁添雄、李冠憬，”校園私有雲端環境入
口平台之規劃與建置”，TANET‟2010 台灣網際網路研討會 
4. Francisco Isidro Massetto, Liria Matsumoto Sato, Kuan-Ching Li, “A Novel Strategy for 
Building Interoperable MPI Environment in Heterogeneous High Performance Systems”, in 
The Journal of Supercomputing, Springer. [SCI, SCIE] (accepted, in press) 
5. Tien-Hsiung Weng, Ruey-Kuen Perng, Kuan-Ching Li, “On Parallelization of Circuit 
表 Y04 
14. Tien-Hsiung Weng, Sheng-Wei Huang, Ruey-Kuen Perng, Ching-Hsien Hsu, and Kuan-Ching 
Li, “A Practical OpenMP Implementation of Bit-reversal for Fast Fourier Transform”, in 
Infoscale'2009 The 4th International Conference on Scalable Information Systems, LNICST 18, 
Springer, Hong Kong, 2009. 
 
Self Evaluation 
Researches conducted in this research project could provide us a unique experience, working 
on several issues related to the proposed research, instead to tackle directly on the problem. We 
believe that the approach we investigate this project is in its right way. We have succeeded in 
developing techniques and strategies, as also the construction of high performance computational 
Multicore cluster computing platforms.  
 There are research papers under work and discussions. We have plans about future trends of 
this research project; for instance, the design of design of the jogging system is based on creative art 
designs, with integrated digital character technologies, the design and implementation of complex 
avatars (the design of an avatar includes basic geometric coordinates, texture and colors (or image), 
and other extra information such as kinematic and ergonomics restrictions).  
 I personally am very grateful with the opportunity to receive this research grant, which has 
given to me unique opportunities to teach and effective implementation through a number of 
discussions with my students, as also idea exchange with research teams from abroad.  
1 
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
Two keynote speeches and a total of more than 60 papers were accepted for presentation 
during this conference (main conference, symposia and workshops) coming from faculties and 
researchers of more than 15 countries, making the authors with papers accepted proud to have 
the quality of their papers recognized. 
 
The keynote speeches were delivered by Raj Buyya (The University of Melbourne, Australia) 
and Wanlei Zhou (Deakin  University,  Australia).  Interactions among people coming from a 
diverse of countries, such as France, Sweden, Taiwan, Canada, Malaysia, Australia, US, 
Norway, Germany, China and others in technical sessions, coffee breaks and reception 
confirms the success on the organization of this conference.  
 
The presentation of our research team’s paper took place on May 21 (FRI) afternoon, and 
researchers from US, Taiwan, Germany and France attended it. Technical issues during Q&A 
arose has brought fruitful discussion which may open to new topics or improvements on our 
research. It was a proof that the research developed is an up-to-date topic, and to advance not 
only our researches shown in that paper, but also upcoming specific topics of research.  
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
Attending several other presentations, I have annotated a number of researches being 
conducted by research teams from other countries, which may be considered to exploit 
collaboratively through idea exchanges and discussions with these teams.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
 
                                                             99年 10月  日 
報告人姓名  
李冠憬 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
靜宜大學 資訊工程學系 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2010 年 5 月 20 日-5 月 22 日 
韓國 釜山 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
 
會議 
名稱 
ICA3PP’2010  
The 10th International Conference on Algorithms and Architectures for Parallel 
Processing 
第十屆平行處理之演算法和硬體架構國際研討會 
 
發表 
論文 
題目 
A Self-Adaptive Load Balancing Strategy for P2P Grids 
在點對點網格環境下之自適應負載均衡策略 
2 
 
 
三、建議 
 
As we have no doubt about Taiwan’s development in high-tech, science and engineering, 
networked computing technologies is essential to keep the pace with this achievement. 
Opportunities to collaborate in the organizing committee, as also the interaction with 
researchers from other countries is crucial in attending international conferences. The 
appearance and enforcement of new possibilities for international cooperation and research 
collaborations are major results we expect for the attendance on these conferences and 
workshops. The major results expected include the development of our influence in our 
community, as also the quality of papers from our country.  
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1 copy of conference Proceedings: Springer Lecture Notes in Computer Science series, 
volume 6802 
 
 
 
 
五、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李冠憬 計畫編號：96-2221-E-126-004-MY3 
計畫名稱：在叢集與網格環境下多重解析度圖片與影片補繪之技術研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 5 6 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 8 10 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 1 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 0 45%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
 
