2自旋霍爾效應與元件研究
“The Study of Spin-Hall Effect and Device Applications”
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-009-007
執行期間：95 年 08 月 01 日 至 96 年 07 月 31 日
主持人：林聖迪 交通大學電子工程系助理教授
一、中文摘要
與傳統的霍爾效應不同, 自旋霍爾效應不
需外加磁場便會將不同自旋組態的電子分
離。在霍爾效應中, Lorentz’s 力會將不同電性
的電荷驅向樣品的不同側, 然而在自旋霍爾效
應中, 關鍵是電子的自旋, 因為自旋與軌道角
動量交互作用的緣故, 自旋向上與向下的電子
會分別向傳輸通道的兩側移動。在實驗上觀測
自旋霍爾效應遭遇的困難之一, 是沒有可以直
接觀測自旋的方式; 在英國劍橋的 Hitachi 團
隊發展了一個聰明的方法解決了此一問題, 因
為電子電洞的復合會產生圓形偏振光而其偏
振性係由電子與電洞的自旋組態決定, 所以我
們可以量測光的偏振比來得知載子的自旋;
由於幾何因素, 我們需要一個橫向的 p-n 二極
體來進行此一實驗; 正因如此, Hitachi 團隊使
用了一個巧妙的方式製作了一個準橫向的 p-n
接面, 這也是該實驗最為關鍵的地方; 但是,
由於他們製作該 p-n 接面的方法面臨表面復合
與接面均勻性的問題, 發光頻譜變寬而且訊雜
比頗低, 致使他們無法給出量化的數據, 而這
正是理論學家與未來發展急需的。
我們經由發展一種新的製作橫向 p-n 接面
的方法 , 來解決此一問題 ; 該製程始於 Dr.
Harrell 等人在劍橋大學物理系時發展的方法,
她們使用無雜質之 AlGaAs/GaAs 異質接面來
誘發二維電子並在極低濃度下獲得極高的電
子遷移率; 我們將改進該方法在同一晶片上
誘發二維電子與電洞, 來製作所需之 p-i-n 接
面; 用我們的方法研究自旋霍爾效應將更具
有彈性與可靠性。透過此計畫之執行, 我們發
展出製作橫向二維 p-i-n 接面的獨特方法, 並
以實驗方式獲得對自旋霍爾效應的重要理解,
這些成果在未來自旋電子學應用中, 製作自旋
相關元件上可提供一個可能的方向。
I. Abstract
Different from traditional Hall effect, in
which the driving force comes from external
magnetic field, SHE separates electrons
occupying different spin states without the
existence of external magnetic field. In Hall
effect, the Lorentz’s force drives the carriers with
different charges to opposite sides, as the force is
opposite for opposite charges. However, in SHE,
it is spin that matters. Spin-up and spin-down
electrons move toward the opposite side of the
channel, due to spin-orbital interaction. One of
the difficulties with observation the SHE is that
there is no way to detect the spin easily and
directly. The Hitachi Cambridge team developed
a clever method to solve this problem. As the
radiation recombination of electron and hole
generates circular polarized light and the
polarization depends on the spin states of
electron and hole, we can measure the
polarization ratio to detect the carriers’spin. In
order to perform this measurement, we need a
lateral p-n diode because of the geometrical
reason. The Hitachi team used a delicate process
4Fig.1 A schematic diagram of the proposed p-i-n diode.
[2], we can induce both 2DEG and 2DHG side
by side in an undoped AlGaAs/GaAs
heterostructure, as shown in fig.1a. The spacing
region between 2DEG (n-type region) and 2DHG
(p-type region) forms the undoped i-region. Here
the Vin and Vip are the biasing voltage for
inducing 2DEG and 2DHG, respectively. The
other biasing voltage Vpn is for the operation of
p-i-n diode.
A sample was grown on (100) S.I. GaAs
substrates by a solid-source Varian Gen-II MBE
system. A 30nm GaAs was grown on top of
Al0.33Ga0.67As barriers and then covered by 80nm
Al0.33Ga0.67As. The whole structure ended with
10nm GaAs cap layer and was totally undoped.
The annealed p-type and n-type ohmic contacts
were composed of Pd/Au/AuBe and
Ni/AuGe/Ni/Au, respectively, which were
thermally evaporated into pits etched to
AlGaAs/GaAs quantum well. A 400nm-thick
layer of insulating and photo-sensitive polyimide
was coated, patterned and then cured at 250oC
for one hour. Semi-transparent metal Ti/Au
(5nm/5nm) was deposited on the polyimide layer
for inducing 2DEG and 2DHG. A picture of
finished device taken under optical microscopy
is shown in Fig.2.
Fig.2 The photograph of the finished devices
The electrical properties of device were
characterized at 4K. According to two-terminal
conductance measurement using low frequency
lock-in technique, the threshold voltages for
inducing 2DEG and 2DHG were about +5.4V
and -4.8V, respectively. By setting the Vin at
+7V and Vip at -6V, the I-V characteristic of the
p-i-n diode was measured, as shown in Fig.3. A
clear rectifying diode behavior was observed,
with a turn-on voltage of about 1.6V. The
leakage current kept below 0.1nA as the reverse
bias up to 3V.
Fig.3 Measured current-voltage characteristic of the lateral
p-i-n junction
6heterostructures for SAW-driven single
photon source”, MBE 2006 in Tokyo, Japan.
二、 論文接受函
February 28, 2007
Dear Dr. Huang:
On behalf of the Technical Program Committee, we are pleased to advise you that
your paper has been sessioned for oral presentation at CLEO/QELS 2007 in
Baltimore, Maryland. The conference will be held at the Baltimore Convention Center
from May 6–11, 2007.
(1) Your session information:
Control no.: 930
Paper title: Experimental Observation of Inflection-Point Slow Light Modes in
Photonic Crystal Coupled Waveguides
Session title: JMB - Resonators and Photonic Crystals
Pres. no.: JMB6
Start date/time: Monday, May 7, 2007, 11:45 AM
End date/time: Monday, May 7, 2007, 12:00 PM
Location: 321-323
(2) Your session information:
Control no.: 996
Paper title: Single Mode Operation of Integrated Photonic Crystal Nanocavity
Coupled Surface Emitting Lasers
Session title: CMV - Semiconductor Photonic Crystal Lasers
Pres. no.: CMV6
Start date/time: Monday, May 7, 2007, 3:00 PM
End date/time: Monday, May 7, 2007, 3:15 PM
Location: 315
Please note that your presentation time includes three minutes for discussion.
Session Code Legend:
(C=CLEO, Q=QELS, J=Joint CLEO/QELS, P=PhAST)
(Su=Sunday, M=Monday, Tu=Tuesday, W=Wednesday, Th=Thursday, F=Friday,
Sa=Saturday)
三、 參加會議經過及與會心得
本次國際會議適逢主辦大會與另一場國際會議 PhAST 共同合
作，參與的人數達五千兩百人之多，從科學家，教育人士，學生到業
界廠商，無不盛裝參與。在這六天的會議過程中，共有超過 1800 場
次的研究成果發表以及 325 家國際光電廠商最新科技產品的展覽。筆
者所獲得錄取發表的兩篇學術研究報告:
(1) Experimental Observation of Inflection-Point Slow Light Modes in
Photonic Crystal Coupled Waveguides
(2)Single Mode Operation of Integrated Photonic Crystal Nanocavity
Coupled Surface Emitting Lasers
分別被安排在大會議程的第二天早上和下午。前者(第一場)的報告，
因發表的研究主題新穎且熱門，被安排在可容納 200~300 人的會議
廳，雖然事前已自我練習多次，場地也在大會前一天勘查過，但第一
次要以英文簡報面對台下如此眾多的與會專家學者，心情上還是有點
緊張。或許是因中午用餐時間已到，當輪到筆者報告時(時間已經是
中午 12:00) ，與會的聽眾人數部分已離場，但在 15 分鐘的報告後，
還是有兩位聽眾人員提問，一位問說:”若光速可被減慢，那麼減緩
它的條件以及被減緩的程度是由哪些因素控制? 另一位好奇的問
說:”既然該 slow-light modes 在 inflection point 的一次微分和
二次微分為零，也就是 Vg 及 GVD 可為零，那麼其三次微分是否也為
零?”，該兩問題並不難回答，因此當場很快就給予答覆。下午報告
的場次則是一般的大會報告場地，可容納 150 人左右，在有了早上報
告的經驗後，面對此場次的報告，就顯得比較從容有把握。但由於前
位報告者的一些臨時狀況，使得原本筆者預定報告的時間被拖延了
15 分鐘，輪到時已經是大會的 coffee break，與會人數頓時驟減。
因此在筆者報告完畢終了，發問的人數並不多，只有一位伊利諾大學
的研究生問了一個製程上的問題，礙於時間，在當時會上筆者只作了
個簡短的回答，會後，筆者才更進一步的與他詳細討論，雙方也彼此
留下通訊聯絡方式。另外，在此休息時間，有一位從事雷射產品開發
的公司總經理，對筆者報告的光子晶體雷射略感興趣，也給筆者提供
了一些更深一層的建議和改進。所以，總的來說，筆者該天的兩場報
告，都大致順利，也很榮幸有機會接受到一群專家學者的指導和建
議，真的是受益匪淺。
