 2 
 
計畫名稱  應用於極低溫製程之微晶矽薄膜電晶體之設計及製作(I) 
中文關鍵字  微晶矽薄膜電晶體、低溫製程、自動對準矽化接觸電極 
英文關鍵字  Microcrystalline thin-film transistor, low-temperature processing, 
self-aligned silicided contact electrode 
 
中文摘要 
傳統的複晶矽薄膜電晶體需要相對高的製程溫度或複雜的退火技術，對於應用在低於
200 度 C 之薄膜電晶體整合中，微晶矽薄膜電晶體會比非晶矽薄膜電晶體及有機薄膜電晶
體更具前瞻性，此係由於有顯著較高的載子移動率。此外，傳統上，微晶矽薄膜電晶體被
製造成頂閘極交錯型結構 (top-gate staggered structure)，但是，由於該結構中，表面通道層
係遠離源汲極接觸電極，故所產生的電性結果會有變差之虞。 
在此計畫中，微晶矽薄膜電晶體係以自動對準矽化源汲極結構來構成其接觸電極，藉
由此製程規劃，其結構之源汲極接觸電極會接近表面通道層，也因此，其電特性將獲得進
一步改善，該自動對準矽化方式與傳統的頂閘極交錯型結構皆是採用兩道光罩製程來製造
該微晶矽薄膜電晶體，而由結果顯示，與該頂閘極交錯型結構相較，自動對準矽化方式可
得到顯著的導通電流增加；於本計畫中，不同閘極長度的微晶矽薄膜電晶體亦被進一步檢
視，且像是可於 200 度 C低溫形成矽化物之鎳及鈀金屬材料將被採用，且包含間隙壁寬度、
矽化物厚度等會影響電性之製程參數也被廣泛的探討。 
 
英文摘要 
Conventional polysilicon TFTs requires relatively high-temperature processing or complex 
annealing techniques. For applications of TFT integration below 200 C, microcrystalline-Si 
(C-Si) TFT would be more promising than both the amorphous-Si TFT and the organic TFT, 
due to much higher carrier mobility. In addition, previously, the C-Si:H thin-film transistors 
have been fabricated as the top-gate staggered-type structure. However, the electrical 
characteristics of the resulting TFT devices would be degraded, since the surface channel layer is 
spaced from the source/drain contact electrode. 
In this project, microcrystalline-Si thin-film transistors have been formed by using self-aligned 
silicided source/drain as the contact electrode. By this process scheme, the resultant source/drain 
contact electrode is close to the surface channel layer, and thus the on-state characteristics may be 
improved. Both the self-aligned silicided scheme and the previous top-gate staggered structure 
employ two-mask process steps for fabricating C-Si TFTs. However, as a result, as compared to 
the top-gate staggered structure, a significant enhancement of conduction current can be achieved 
by using the self-aligned silicided scheme. Thin-film transistors of various gate lengths have also 
been examined. Various metal materials, such as nickel and palladium, available for 
low-temperature silicidation process are employed, with a silicidation of 200 C for forming 
Ni2Si and Pd2Si silicides as the contact electrode. Various process parameters that affect the 
resultant device characteristics, including oxide spacer width and silicide thickness, are 
extensively examined. 
 
 4 
nm-thick aluminum films and the 10 nm-thick silicon-nitride capping layer were sequentially 
formed by sputtering. The gate electrode was delineated to be with channel length of 2 m. 
Subsequently, as shown in Fig. 1(b), a thin silicon oxide film of about 30 nm thickness was 
deposited by PECVD at 150 C, and then anisotropically etched to form thin oxide spacer, which 
is similar to the method in deep submicron integration circuit technology. An oxide spacer width 
of about 25~30 nm was achieved, via the inspection of cross-sectional scanning electron 
microscopy. Subsequently, as shown in Fig. 1(c), a 35 nm-thick Ni film was sputtered onto the 
substrate, and then annealing the sample at 200 C for 60 min to form Ni2Si silicide of about 50 
nm thickness. The unreacted Ni films on glass, oxide spacer, and nitride capping layer were 
selectively removed by an etchant consisting of a 5:3:1:1 volume mixture of acetic, nitric, 
phosphoric, and sulphuric acids, used at 40 C [13]. Finally, as shown in Fig. 1(d), a top-gate 
C-Si thin film transistor with source/drain contact electrode of self-aligned Ni silicide was 
implemented. 
On the other hand, similar to some previous reports [7-11], the general C-Si thin film 
transistors with a top-gate staggered structure were also formed for comparison. The Ni2Si 
silicide film of about 50 nm thickness was firstly formed on the glass substrate, by using the 
interfacial reaction at 200 C for 60 min between deposited C-Si films and Ni films. Then, the 
source/drain Ni-silicide contact electrode was patterned by using photolithography and dry 
etching process. The distances between the source/drain contact electrodes are set to be 2 m, and 
the electrode is of 1000 m width. Subsequently, the C-Si film, the gate-dielectric silicon oxide 
film, and the gate-electrode aluminum film were sequentially formed on the substrate. The 
above-stacked layers were then patterned to simultaneously form gate electrode region, gate 
dielectric region, and channel region. The resultant overlap region of gate electrode and 
source/drain contact electrode is about 100 nm for each side. As a result, Fig. 2 illustrates the 
schematic structure of the general C-Si thin-film transistor with a top-gate staggered structure. 
All the devices were measured at room temperature and dark condition by using Agilent 4156A. 
 
三、結果與討論 
Since the processing temperature is limited up to 200 C for practical applications of C-Si 
devices on organic polymer substrates, the previous C-Si TFT devices is formed as a top-gate 
staggered structure, and a simple two-mask process is available for the device fabrication. For 
this proposed top-gate self-aligned nickel silicided scheme, a two-mask process is also available 
based on the above device scheme, and the processing is carried out at a temperature of only 200 
C. However, in terms of the electrical characteristics, this self-aligned nickel silicided scheme 
can cause better on-state current than the general top-gate staggered structure. Fig. 3 shows the 
drain current as a function of gate voltage for the C-Si TFT devices with the general top-gate 
staggered structure and the proposed self-aligned nickel silicided scheme, respectively, and with a 
gate length of 2 m and a drain bias of 1 V. The off-state leakage current lower than 1 pA/m 
can be achieved, and the devices show an on/off current ratio above 5 orders. In addition, no 
considerable gate leakage current is found, which shows a value well lower than 0.1 pA/m. At 
low gate bias voltage, no considerable difference of conduction current is found for both the 
 6 
bias is applied. As compared to the general top-gate staggered structure, this proposed 
self-aligned nickel silicided scheme would form a source contact region closer to the channel 
surface. Accordingly, the self-aligned nickel silicided scheme eventually leads to obviously larger 
bending of energy band near the source region than the top-gate staggered structure, which 
facilitates causing more carriers tunneling for the Schottky contact between source and channel. 
In addition, for the top-gate staggered structure, since the source/drain electrode is spaced form 
the surface channel layer, the parasitic series resistance between the electrode and surface channel 
layer is considerably caused. By further examining the TFT devices with gate length of 2, 10, and 
20 m, the effective contact resistivity of the devices with the top-gate staggered structure and the 
self-aligned scheme are estimated to be about 0.45 and 0.3 K-cm, correspondingly, at a drain 
voltage of 1 V and a gate voltage of 10 V. As a result, the self-aligned nickel silicided scheme 
would cause a larger on-state current than the top-gate staggered structure.. 
 
四、結論 
The C-Si TFTs with source/drain contact electrode formed by self-aligned nickel silicided 
process have been proposed. The device active region, consisting of i-C-Si:H channel film, was 
patterned on glass substrate. Subsequently, the stacked layers consisting of gate-dielectric SiO2 
film, gate-electrode aluminum film, and the silicon nitride capping layer were sequentially 
formed, and delineated as gate electrode region. A thin silicon oxide film of about 30 nm 
thickness was then deposited and etched to form thin oxide sidewall spacer. Finally, a self-aligned 
nickel silicided process was undertaken to form source/drain contact electrode of Ni2Si silicide at 
200 C. The C-Si:H TFTs have been generally fabricated as the top-gate staggered-type 
structure, due to the limitation of process temperature up to 200 C for practical applications. 
However, at a process temperature of 200 C, this proposed self-aligned nickel silicided scheme 
can cause better device characteristics than the general top-gate staggered structure, without extra 
photo masking step. As compared to the previous top-gate staggered structure, this proposed 
self-aligned nickel silicided scheme would form a source contact region much closer to the 
channel surface, which can effectively cause larger bending of energy band near the 
source/channel Schottky contact at the same applied gate voltage and thus more carrier tunneling 
from the source contact electrode. As a result, this proposed self-aligned nickel silicided scheme 
can cause an obviously larger on-state current of C-Si TFTs than the top-gate staggered 
structure. 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] H. Oshima, S. Morozumi, IEEE Int. Electron Device Meeting Digest, Washington, DC, 
USA, Dec. 3-6, 1989, p. 157. 
[2] F. Hayashi, H. Ohkubo, T. Takahashi, S. Horiba, K. Noda, T. Uchida, T. Shimizu, N. 
Sugawara, S. Kumashiro, IEEE Int. Electron Device Meeting Digest, San Francisco, CA, 
USA, Dec. 8-11, 1996, p. 283. 
[3] M. H. Juang, Y. M. Chiu, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 20 (2005) 1223. 
[4] S. D. Brotherton, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 10 (1995) 721. 
 8 
 
 
Fig. 3 
 
 
Fig. 4 
 
Fig. 5 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 
 
 
Fig. 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期 100 年 10 月 01 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：應用於極低溫製程之微晶矽薄膜電晶體之設計及製作(I) 
計畫主持人： 莊敏宏 
計畫編號：NSC 99－2221－E－011－138－學門領域：微電工程 
技術/創作名稱 自動對準矽化源汲極之微晶矽薄膜電晶體 
發明人/創作人  莊敏宏 
中文：微晶矽薄膜電晶體以自動對準矽化源汲極結構來構成其接觸
電極，藉由此製程規劃，其結構之源汲極接觸電極會接近表面通道
層，也因此，其電特性將獲得進一步改善，該自動對準矽化方式與
傳統的頂閘極交錯型結構皆是採用兩道光罩製程來製造該微晶矽薄
膜電晶體，而由結果顯示，與該頂閘極交錯型結構相較，自動對準
矽化方式可得到顯著的導通電流增加。 
技術說明 
英文：Microcrystalline-Si thin-film transistors have been formed by 
using self-aligned silicided source/drain as the contact electrode. By this 
process scheme, the resultant source/drain contact electrode is close to 
the surface channel layer, and thus the on-state characteristics may be 
improved. Both the self-aligned silicided scheme and the previous 
top-gate staggered structure employ two-mask process steps for 
fabricating C-Si TFTs. However, as a result, as compared to the 
top-gate staggered structure, a significant enhancement of conduction 
current can be achieved by using the self-aligned silicided scheme. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
 顯示器相關技術 
技術特點 
微晶矽薄膜電晶體以自動對準矽化源汲極結構來構成其接觸電極，
藉由此製程規劃，可得到顯著的導通電流增加。 
推廣及運用的價值 
微晶矽薄膜電晶體以自動對準矽化源汲極結構來構成其接觸電極，
藉由此製程規劃，可得到顯著的導通電流增加。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：莊敏宏 計畫編號：99-2221-E-011-138- 
計畫名稱：應用於極低溫製程之微晶矽薄膜電晶體之設計及製作(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 6 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 4 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
