for bandwidth and should be transmitted 
continuously. Since bandwidth is the most 
critical resource in mobile multimedia 
wireless networks, it is important to employ 
mechanisms for efficiently using the available 
bandwidth. In mobile cellular communication 
networks carrying multimedia traffic, it 
becomes necessary to provide 
quality-of-service (QoS) guarantees for 
multimedia traffic connections. In order to 
utilize the radio spectrum efficiently, 
microcellular and picocellular networks are 
deployed. These networks have the inherent 
problem of rapid handoffs due to smaller 
coverage areas of base stations. This problem 
leads to higher connection-dropping 
probability and results in bandwidth resource 
availability varying repeatedly. Frequent 
changes in the network traffic make the 
provision of guaranteed QoS more difficult. 
Hence, research in the area of QoS 
provisioning in the next-generation high-speed 
wireless networks focuses on the integration 
of resource allocation and admission control 
policies [1]-[6]. 
 
四、文獻探討 
Recently, several bandwidth allocation 
schemes have been proposed to support QoS 
provisioning in wireless environments. A 
rate-based borrowing scheme for QoS 
provisioning in multimedia wireless networks 
is proposed in [2] to provide network users 
with QoS in terms of guaranteed bandwidth, 
connection-blocking probability (CBP), and 
connection-dropping probability (CDP) by 
using bandwidth borrowing. In [1], based on 
the max-min fairness allocation protocol, a 
fair resource allocation protocol for 
multimedia wireless networks is proposed to 
improve connection-blocking probability, 
connection-dropping probability, and 
bandwidth utilization. The fair resource 
allocation protocol is suitable for MHs with 
low bandwidth requirements because it relies 
on the equal share concept and the stringent 
call admission procedure may not admit many 
high bandwidth requests in a highly 
overloaded system. It is unfair for multimedia 
applications such as video streams and file 
transfer services. There are some overheads of 
bandwidth re-distribution in [1] and [2]. When 
a base station accepts a connection, these 
schemes may re-distribute the bandwidth 
allocation for all ongoing connections. 
However, as MHs increase in the base stations, 
the QoS guarantees may be reduced for 
ongoing connections and too many overheads 
are increased in the base stations of the 
cellular system because these schemes subject 
connections to frequent fluctuations in the 
allocated bandwidths of MHs. 
This project introduces a novel 
service-oriented bandwidth borrowing scheme 
that supports QoS guarantees in the next 
generation mobile multimedia wireless 
networks. In the proposed scheme, we classify 
all multimedia traffic into real-time (Class I) 
and nonreal-time (Class II) traffic. Real-time 
traffic includes voice and video while data and 
graphics make up nonereal-time traffic. We 
design efficient call admission control 
algorithms for real-time and nonreal-time 
traffic, according to the different multimedia 
services. Also, we provide the efficient 
bandwidth re-distribution approach in a base 
station by using the attribute of multimedia 
traffic. In order to evaluate the overhead of 
bandwidth reconfiguration and satisfying 
degree of QoS of ongoing MHs in cellular 
systems, new measurement method is 
proposed in this paper. 
 
五、研究方法 
In the proposed scheme, it is assumed that 
when an MH requests a new connection in the 
current cell or moves into the neighboring cell, 
the following parameters are provided: 1) The 
traffic class (I or II). 2) The required 
bandwidth for the connection. 3) The 
minimum required bandwidth for the 
connection. The minimum required bandwidth 
connection is the smallest amount of 
bandwidth that the connection can be assured 
of a certain acceptable QoS, e.g., the smallest 
encoding rate of its codec [3]. 
In the borrowing-based bandwidth 
allocation scheme [1], [2], it assumes that 
multimedia applications can tolerate transient 
fluctuations in the QoS and allows for the 
temporary borrowing of bandwidth from 
existing connections in order to accommodate 
new and handoff connections. The parameters 
that must be specified in a connection request 
are the connection class and the required, 
minimum, and expected levels of bandwidth. 
The expected amount falls between the 
required and the minimum, and represents a 
borrowable bandwidths of MHs, and 
multimedia applications. In this paper, we 
assume six multimedia applications in the 
simulation model shown in Table I [1], [2], [3]. 
When the cell does not have enough residual 
bandwidth to provide a connection, the 
borrowable bandwidths of MHs will be 
borrowed. Thus, the borrowed MHs will 
temporarily have to give up a certain amount 
of allocated bandwidth. In order to provide 
high satisfying degree of QoS for ongoing 
MHs and to decrease the re-distribution 
overheads in mobile communication systems, 
the borrowable bandwidths of MHs are 
selected from the service-queues in order, 
according to the hand-in times of MHs and 
multimedia applications. Because the high 
bandwidth requests also have high borrowable 
bandwidths, the influence of satisfying degree 
of QoS for MHs is slight and the number of 
re-distribution is also small when the 
borrowable bandwidths are borrowed from the 
high bandwidth requests. We employ two 
pointers to indicate location of borrowed and 
returned. On the one hand the borrowed 
pointer indicates a starting location where the 
borrowable bandwidth of MH can be 
borrowed, and on the other the returned 
pointer indicates a starting location where the 
borrowed bandwidth can be returned to the 
MH. We assume that MHs x1,…, xm are 
application p traffic and come to the cell in 
order. Let pmb  denotes the borrowable 
bandwidth of MH xm for application p traffic, 
which can be expressed by 
p
exp,x
p
x
p
m mm
BBb −= ,  (2) 
where pxmB  is the required bandwidth of MH 
xm and p exp,xmB  is the expected bandwidth of 
MH xm for application p traffic. Let pjW  
denotes the total amount of borrowable 
bandwidth for application p traffic in cell j. If 
there are M MHs for application p traffic in 
the cell j, the pjW  can be expressed by 
∑
=
=
M
1m
p
m
p
j bW .   (3) 
In order to maintain a comfortable QoS for 
each MH, when the borrowable bandwidth 
must be borrowed, this strategy examines the 
half total amount of borrowable bandwidths. 
If the half total amount of borrowable 
bandwidths is enough for borrowed, the half 
borrowable bandwidth for each MH is 
borrowed from the service-queues in order. 
Otherwise, the total borrowable bandwidth for 
each MH is borrowed from the service-queues 
in order. Figure 3 shows the framework of 
service-based borrowing. This figure 
illustrates that the borrowable bandwidths of 
MHs x1, x2, and x3 have been borrowed half 
borrowable bandwidths from the multimedia 
application 6 of service-queue. The borrowed 
pointer points to the borrowable bandwidth of 
MH x4. And, the returned pointer points to the 
borrowed bandwidth of MH x1. When an MH 
terminates, the borrowed bandwidth will be 
returned. It must be returned to the MHs x1, x2, 
and x3 in order. Hence only three connections 
must be re-distributed. This strategy provides 
the efficient bandwidth re-distribution and 
reduces the overhead of bandwidth 
reconfiguration in cellular systems. 
In order to provide high satisfying degree 
of QoS for ongoing MHs in the cell, we define 
QoS-degree factor for Class I (or Class II) 
data traffic within each time interval in the 
cell. Let k j,tQA  and 
k
j,tQN , respectively, be 
the number of degree A connections and the 
number of active connections for Class k data 
traffic at time t in cell j. Let k j,tnφ  be the 
QoS-degree factor of Class k data traffic at 
time tn in cell j, which can be expressed by 
∑
∑
−=
−==
n
k
j,ntn
j,t
n
k
j,ntn
j,t
n t
ltt
k
t
ltt
k
k
j,t
QN
QA
φ ,     (4) 
MH x1 MH x2 MH xmMH x3
Returned
pointer
Borrowed
pointer
b1 b2 b3 bm
Multimedia application
3 of service-queue
Multimedia application 5
of service-queue
Multimedia application 4
of service-queue
Multimedia application 6
of service-queue
b4
MH x4
 
Figure 3. Framework of service-based borrowing. 
 
4) The durations of connections are assumed 
to follow a geometric distribution with 
different means for different multimedia 
traffic types [3]. 
Figures 4 and 5 show the AQDA for Class I 
and Class II traffic connections when 
connection arrival rate = 0.1 and 0.5 
requests/sec, respectively. The measured time 
is from 10 minutes to 50 minutes for each 
connection arrival rate. It is obvious that our 
proposed scheme results in higher AQDA for 
Class I traffic and Class II traffic than fair 
resource allocation protocol. For each 
connection arrival rate, the AQDA of our 
proposed scheme for Class I and Class II 
traffic connections is larger than 0.9. 
Furthermore, there is slight fluctuation in the 
AQDA of our proposed scheme when the 
measured time changes. It means that the 
proposed scheme provides better satisfying 
degree of QoS for ongoing MHs in mobile 
communication systems. The major reason is 
that we provide the efficient bandwidth 
re-distribution approach in a base station by 
using the attribute of multimedia traffic. The 
influence of satisfying degree of QoS for MHs 
is slight when the borrowable bandwidths are 
borrowed from the high bandwidth requests. 
According to the QoS-degree factors and 
different multimedia services, we design 
efficient call admission control algorithms for 
real-time and nonreal-time traffic. Therefore, 
our proposed scheme controls the number of 
MHs, connection blocking and connection 
dropping appropriately in a base station, 
providing high QoS requirements in the 
cellular systems. 
We also compare the average number of 
re-distribution per second for each base station 
with that of the fair resource allocation 
protocol. Figure 6 shows that our proposed 
scheme results in lower number of 
re-distribution by using the service-oriented 
bandwidth borrowing strategy. When the 
connection arrival rate is larger than 0.05, it is 
obvious that the fair resource allocation 
protocol results in higher number of 
re-distribution in the cellular systems. This is 
because the fair resource allocation protocol 
may re-distribute the bandwidth allocation for 
all ongoing connections when a base station 
accepts a connection. Also, in this situation, 
the base station is the more congested because 
more and more MHs arrive at the cell. Too 
many overheads are increased in the base 
stations of the cellular system. In contrast, our 
proposed scheme leads to slight fluctuations in 
the allocated bandwidths of MHs. It means 
that our proposed scheme provides a more 
efficient bandwidth re-distribution approach 
and lower system overhead than fair resource 
allocation protocol. The reason for this 
behavior is that we rely on suitable 
arrangement for borrowable bandwidths of 
multimedia applications to borrowed or 
returned, reducing the overheads of bandwidth 
re-distribution in a base station. 
Table 2 shows the CBP of two schemes. 
The CBPs increase in two schemes with 
increase in the arrival rate of new connection 
request. However, when the connection arrival 
rate is larger than 0.1 requests/sec, it is evident 
that the CBPs of our proposed scheme are 
better than that of the fair resource allocation 
protocol. Table 3 shows that the CDP of our 
proposed scheme is better than that of fair 
resource allocation protocol. Furthermore, as 
the connection arrival rate increases, it is 
obvious that the proposed scheme results in 
lower CDP. The reason for this behavior is 
Table 1. Multimedia traffic used in simulation mode 
Application Traffic Class Bandwidth Requirement 
Average 
Bandwidth 
Requirement
Connection 
Duration 
Average 
Connection 
Duration 
Example 
1 Real-time 30 Kb/s (CBR)  60 - 600 seconds 180 seconds 
Voice Service & 
Audio-phone 
2 Real-time 256 Kb/s (CBR)  60 – 1800 seconds 300 seconds 
Video-phone & 
Video-conference 
3 Real-time 
1-6 Mb/s (average) 
2.5-9 Mb/s (peak) 
(VBR) 
3 Mb/s 300 - 18000 seconds 600 seconds Interact. Multimedia & Video on Demand 
4 Nonreal-time 5-20 Kb/s (UBR) 10 Kb/s 10 - 120 seconds 30 seconds Email, Paging & Fax
5 Nonreal-time 64-512 Kb/s (UBR) 256 Kb/s 30 - 36000 seconds 180 seconds 
Remote Login & 
Data on Demand 
6 Nonreal-time 1-10 Mb/s (UBR) 5 Mb/s 30 - 1200 seconds 120 seconds 
File Transfer & 
Retrieval Service 
Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 13, no. 
2, pp. 156-166, Feb. 2002. 
[3] C. Oliverira, J. B. Kim, and T. Suda, “An 
Adaptive Bandwidth Reservation Scheme 
for High-Speed Multimedia Wireless 
Networks,” IEEE J. Select. Areas 
Commun., vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 858-874, Aug. 
1998. 
[4] J. Ye, J. Hou, and S. Papavassiliou, “A 
Comprehensive Resource Management 
Framework for Next Generation Wireless 
Networks,” IEEE Trans. Mobile 
Computing, vol. 1, no. 4, pp. 249-264, 
Oct.-Dec. 2002. 
[5] J. -Y. Chang and H. -L. Chen, 
“Dynamic-Grouping Bandwidth 
Reservation Scheme for Multimedia 
Wireless Networks,” IEEE J. Select. Areas 
Commun., vol. 21, no. 10, pp. 1566-1574, 
Dec. 2003. 
[6] L. Huang, S. Kumar, and C.-C. Jay Kuo, 
“Adaptive Resource Allocation for 
Multimedia QoS Management in wireless 
Networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., 
vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 547-558, March 2004. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
