前言 
The accurate assessment of lung perfusion is important to understand the 
physiology and pathophysiology of the lung.  Changes in regional lung perfusion can 
be observed in several pulmonary diseases, including lung cancer, pulmonary 
embolism (1,2).  It can also be observed in cardiovacular diseases, such as 
pulmonary stenosis (3,4).  Accurate assessment of pulmonary perfusion is especially 
important for many cardiopulmonary disorders, especially complex congenital heart 
diseases that involve complicated interactions between the systemic and pulmonary 
circulations.  For example, in patients with tetralogy of Fallot, presurgical detection 
of the major aortopulmonary collateral arteries is critical for surgical planning.   
 
研究目的 
At present, measuring regional pulmonary perfusion in clinical practice 
traditionally uses radioactive isotopes such as the technetium-99m (99mTc)-labeled 
macroaggregated albumin (MAA) (1, 2).  The scintigraphic method is a 
well-established clinical tool; however, poor spatial resolution and overlap due to 
projection remains a major limitation of this method.  This study aims to investigate 
a method with better resolution and noninvasive properties to quantitative evaluate 
pulmonary perfusion condition. Here we adopt dynamic contrast enhanced MR 
imaging. 
 
文獻探討 
In recent years, MR imaging has become a competitive technique for pulmonary 
imaging (3-6).  MR imaging has the advantage of simultaneous acquisition of high 
spatial resolution anatomical images, multiple functional information to assist 
diagnosis, and no ionization radiation exposure.  Dynamic contrast-enhanced MR 
image (DCE-MRI) using intravenous injection of contrast material has been shown to 
be able to detect pulmonary embolism (3, 7) and low perfusion in chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) (7).  It is also been demonstrated that MR perfusion 
imaging can be potentially be used to quantitatively evaluate regional pulmonary 
perfusion (8).  The accuracy of measuring lung perfusion of DCE-MRI has been 
validated by experiment studies using animal models using invasive microsphere 
measurements as the standard (9, 10). 
Research studies have shown that MR imaging provides consistent information 
as compared with perfusion scintigraphy (PS) on subjects with pulmonary embolism, 
assuming that the concentration of the contrast agent is proportional to the signal 
enhancement.  The relative mean transit time (rMTT) can be computed as the 
normalized first moment of the SI-time curve: 
  0
0
( )
( )
t s t dt
rMTT
s t dt
∞
∞
⋅
=
∫
∫
           [2] 
And the relative pulmonary blood flow (rPBF) is obtained using the central volume 
principle: 
  
rMTT
rPBVrPBF =            [3] 
 In reality, however, the conventional definition of first-pass transit may 
encounter difficulty in the case of complex pulmonary circulation.  Examples 
include residual pulmonary stenosis after total surgical correction for tetralogy of 
Fallot where delayed contrast accumulation could obscure the separation of first-pass 
transit and recirculation (Fig.1), Fontan surgery where the shape of the SI-time curve 
deviate substantially from the gamma variate function due to atypical vasculature, or 
sequestration spectrum where the blood supply actually originates from the aorta 
rather than pulmonary arteries.  In order for the DCE-MRI analysis results to be 
compatible with those obtained with perfusion scintigraphy, we propose the following 
modification on the perfusion analysis method for DCE-MRI.  Instead of performing 
integration throughout the entire first-pass transit as in Eqs.[1]-[3], the integration 
range in the new method is restricted to the wash-in portion only.  We shall term the 
new parameter as rPBVwi, namely, 
∫=
max
0
)(
t
wi dttsrPBV           [4] 
where tmax, the upper bound of integration, is chosen in this study as the time that the 
normal lung parenchyma shows maximum signal intensity, which is often referred to 
as the time-to-peak (Fig.1).  One can see that if the integration upper bound is 
chosen instead to approach infinity, rPBVwi would reduce to the conventionally 
defined rPBV as in indicator dilution theory (8).  The rationale for choosing the 
time-to-peak as the integration upper bound was to ensure inclusion of the wash-in 
portion of the pulmonary arterial phase only, which is anticipated to give DCE-MRI 
results similar to those from PS.  Validation of the choice of tmax will be illustrated in 
a later section. 
 
by the mean radioactivity of the whole lungs ( ).  To obtain regional perfusion 
ratios, both lungs were divided to six ROIs in the upper right, middle right, lower 
right, upper left, middle left, and lower left lungs.  And the percentage perfusion 
ratio for each regional ROI was calculated separately. 
PS
LeftR
 
Contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiography 
For some patients, contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiography was acquired before  
perfusion imaging.  The MR angiogram was acquired in coronal orientation using 
elliptical k-space gradient-echo imaging with TR/TE = 4.8ms/1.5ms, flip angle = 15°, 
matrix = 256 × 160, and field of view = 150~320 mm after the injection of 
gadopentetate dimeglumine 0.1 mmol/kg (Magnevist, Schering, Germany).  
Multiplanar reconstruction with maximal intensity projection was done for the 
interrogated vessels to evaluate the vascular morphology together with anatomical 
spin-echo images. 
 
Dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging 
DCE-MR images were acquired by using an inversion-recovery-prepared 
segmented EPI technique (16) with cardiac gating.  The subjects were in supine 
position throughout the entire examinations.  Imaging parameters, adjusted 
dependent on individual heart rates, were usually TI/TR/TE/ETL = 180/6.5/1.2/4, 
matrix = 128x128, and interpolated to 256x256 for display.  Slice thickness was 
8~12mm, with coronal slices acquired.  Cardiac gating was used to avoid image 
mis-registration, particularly for lung parenchyma near the border of mediastinum and 
the heart where the blood flow was relatively large and could have strong impact on 
pulmonary perfusion parameters.  The number of slices acquired in one cardiac cycle 
is dependent on the heart rate: about three slices in one R-R interval or about seven 
slices in two R-R intervals (16).  A bolus of 0.05-0.1 mmol/Kg Gd-DTPA 
(Magnevist, Schering, Germany) was injected intravenously after the image 
acquisition started, using either an MR-compatible power injector at a speed of 3 
ml/sec or rapid hand injection with a Y connector at roughly the same speed.  A total 
of 40~60 frames, separated by one or two R-R intervals from one another, were 
obtained at each coronal slice locations.  Hence the total imaging time for DCE-MRI 
was less than a minute.  Patients were asked to hold their breath during scans if 
possible.  Some patients were unable to hold their breath during the first-pass transit 
of the contrast agent due to poor pulmonary condition.  Patients younger than 5 years 
old were sedated and consequently were imaged during free breathing.  For these 
patients, the SI-time curves showed respiration-induced fluctuations which could 
scintigraphy ( ) and that from conventional rPBV and rPBF of DCE-MRI 
(  and ), respectively.  For rPBV versus PS (Fig.2a), the mean 
difference was 4.01%, with upper and lower limits of two standard deviations at 
50.37% and –42.26%, respectively.  The intraclass correlation coefficient (18) 
between these two methods was R
PS
LeftR
PBF
LeftR
 of R
PBV
LeftR
I = 0.49 (95% confidence interval [0.13, 0.73]).  
For rPBF versus PS (Fig.2b), the mean difference was 3.33% (upper and lower limits 
at 35.48% and –28.82%, respectively), with intraclass correlation coefficient RI = 
0.77 and 95% confidence interval [0.56, 0.89].  These results suggest that both rPBV 
and rPBF show substantial discrepancy with PS in our subjects with complex 
pulmonary circulation.  With wash-in analysis for DCE-MRI (Fig.2c), the upper and 
lower boun - PSLeftR  agreement reduced to 12.85% and –12.67%, 
respectively.  Mean difference was 0.09%.  Intraclass correlation coefficient 
became as high as R
ds
terval [0.96, 0.99]). 
PBVwi
Left
I = 0.98 (95% confidence in
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
 
Fig 2a 
from the difference in particle sizes of the contrast agents used in the two imaging 
modalities, which results in distinct characteristics in terms of the wash-out behaviors.  
In previous investigations comparing DCE-MRI and PS in human subjects (1, 11-13, 
20), such inconsistencies were not found because only patients with pulmonary 
embolism, emphysema, COPD, and lung cancer were recruited.  For the diseases 
mentioned above, the pulmonary circulations are relatively simple, involving merely a 
decrease or increase in blood volume.  Neither recirculation nor collateral flow is 
associated with these diseases in a diagnostically essential manner. 
 For complex pulmonary circulation such as those encountered in congenital heart 
diseases, the situation becomes prominently different from the diseases mentioned 
above.  In our data, both rCBV and rCBF derived from DCE-MRI could lead to 
disagreements with PS on the order of ±30–50% in the estimation of the left lung 
perfusion ratio.  Note that the strong inter-modal disparity is not a unique finding in 
our institute.  One comparative investigation examining patients with malignant 
stenosis concluded that a statistically significant correlation exists between PS and 
contrast-injected projection MR angiography (21).  A closer inspection on the 
published data, however, reveals that about one third of their patients showed rather 
discrepant perfusion ratios by about 40% between PS and MR angiography (21).  
Considering that stenosis of upstream vessels could very likely lead to delayed 
wash-in and wash-out, and hence an overlap of the second-pass recirculation with 
first-pass transit in the SI-time curves, the PS-MR disagreements found on these 
patients are in close analogy to our findings from the Tetralogy of Fallot patients with 
post-surgical residual stenosis.  Similar findings regarding non-negligible 
disagreement between PS and DCE-MRI were also reported in another study 
combining patients with different pulmonary diseases, although without possible 
mechanisms explained in detail (22). 
 The phenomena of inter-modal disparity between DCE-MRI and PS raise the 
important issue regarding the use of PS as the clinical standard for lung perfusion 
estimation for patients with complex pulmonary circulation (23).  The fact that 
pulmonary PS with 99mTc -MAA administration contains only wash-in information 
clearly shows its deficiency in revealing collateral flows such as that encountered in 
sequestration spectrum.  In this regard, it is perhaps more appropriate to refer to the 
PS perfusion as the "pulmonary arterial flow" to specifically exclude the effects from 
systemic aortic flow.  Moreover, in an earlier study specifically focused on patients 
with Fontan circulation, it was further pointed out that perfusion PS is problematic 
due to preferential draining of the venae cavae to one lung (23).  Although in that 
study the velocity mapping method with phase-contrast MRI was suggested to lead to 
more accurate measurements in blood flow than PS (23), phase-contrast MRI is 
15:386-394. 
2. Dessy H, Hermus JP, van den Heuvel F, Oei HY, Krenning EP, Hess J. 
Echocardiographic and radionuclide pulmonary blood flow patterns after 
transcatheter closure of patent ductus arteriosus. Circulation 1996; 94:126-129. 
3. Pruckmayer M, Zacherl S, Salzer-Muhar U, Schlemmer M, Leitha T. Scintigraphic 
assessment of pulmonary and whole-body blood flow patterns after surgical 
intervention in congenital heart disease. J Nucl Med 1999; 40:1477-1483. 
4. Amundsen T, Kvaerness J, Jones RA, et al. Pulmonary embolism: detection with 
MR perfusion imaging of lung--a feasibility study. Radiology 1997; 203:181-185. 
5. Roberts DA, Gefter WB, Hirsch JA, et al. Pulmonary perfusion: 
respiratory-triggered three-dimensional MR imaging with arterial spin 
tagging--preliminary results in healthy volunteers. Radiology 1999; 212:890-895. 
6. Uematsu H, Levin DL, Hatabu H. Quantification of pulmonary perfusion with MR 
imaging: recent advances. Eur J Radiol 2001; 37:155-163. 
7. Hatabu H, Gaa J, Kim D, Li W, Prasad PV, Edelman RR. Pulmonary perfusion: 
qualitative assessment with dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI using ultra-short TE 
and inversion recovery turbo FLASH. Magn Reson Med 1996; 36:503-508. 
8. Levin DL, Chen Q, Zhang M, Edelman RR, Hatabu H. Evaluation of regional 
pulmonary perfusion using ultrafast magnetic resonance imaging. Magn Reson 
Med 2001; 46:166-171. 
9. Hatabu H, Tadamura E, Levin DL, et al. Quantitative assessment of pulmonary 
perfusion with dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI. Magn Reson Med 1999; 
42:1033-1038. 
10. Chen Q, Levin DL, Kim D, et al. Pulmonary disorders: ventilation-perfusion MR 
imaging with animal models. Radiology 1999; 213:871-879. 
11. Berthezene Y, Croisille P, Wiart M, et al. Prospective comparison of MR lung 
perfusion and lung scintigraphy. J Magn Reson Imaging 1999; 9:61-68. 
12. Iwasawa T, Saito K, Ogawa N, Ishiwa N, Kurihara H. Prediction of postoperative 
pulmonary function using perfusion magnetic resonance imaging of the lung. J 
Magn Reson Imaging 2002; 15:685-692. 
13. Ohno Y, Hatabu H, Higashino T, et al. Dynamic perfusion MRI versus perfusion 
scintigraphy: prediction of postoperative lung function in patients with lung cancer. 
AJR Am J Roentgenol 2004; 182:73-78. 
14. Thompson HK, Jr., Starmer CF, Whalen RE, McIntosh HD. Indicator Transit 
Time Considered as a Gamma Variate. Circ Res 1964; 14:502-515. 
15. Geva T, Greil GF, Marshall AC, Landzberg M, Powell AJ. Gadolinium-enhanced 
3-dimensional magnetic resonance angiography of pulmonary blood supply in 
patients with complex pulmonary stenosis or atresia: comparison with x-ray 
1 
 
 
國科會 
 
補助出席國際會議報告 
 
 
 
 
 
Joint Annual Meeting ISMRM-ESMRMB 2010 
 
“國際醫用磁共振學會暨歐洲醫用磁共振學會 
2010年聯合會議” 
 
 
 
 
會議報告 
 
 
 
 
林益如 台灣科技大學電子系 
 
九十九年五月十九日 
3 
 
 
 圖為本人與一同前往開會之學生於開會會場合照，包括三名碩士班學生與一
名大學部專題學生。 
 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
 今年大會特別邀請到瑞典皇后來演講做為揭開會議的序幕，顯示了瑞典隊於
本次會議的重視程度；今年的演講主題在磁振頻譜方面，有相當多的進展，尤其
有多篇文章是關於頻譜影像的技術發展，這表示此領域相當受到重視，另外有多
篇關於頻譜編譯的技術，值得參考。肺部相關的研究，今年仍然集中在
hyperpolarized gas上的技術及應用，焦點還是在於氣體分配的分布，很可惜此項
研究在國內，缺乏相關的設備技術，引此一直難以推展進行。 
 
三、考察參觀活動 
  
 此次 ISMRM對於學生有較多的活動，包括提供給參與學生跟大師對談的機
會，另外在舉辦諾貝爾獎晚宴的相同場所舉辦了一場專門讓學生參加的活動，雖
然本人無法與會，但一同前往的研究生就有幸能在這個特殊的場合見到多位磁共
振領域的大師。在開會間的空閒時間，本人也利用機會參觀了斯德哥爾摩市，這
個城市與水的關係非常密切，市區包含了數個大小島嶼，因此城市交通中，船舶
變成另外一個特別的選項。 
 
 
An Investigation of the Acceleration Factor in TE-averaged Data-Sharing Radial Proton Echo Planar Spectroscopic Imaging 
(dsrPEPSI) 
 
C-Y. Lu1, Y-R. Lin2, S. Posse3,4, and S-Y. Tsai5 
1Biomedical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, 2Eletronic Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, 3Department of Neurology, University of New Mexico School of Medicine, Albuquerque, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131, United States, 
4Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, United States, 5Electrical Engineering, Chang Gung University, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan 
 
Introduction 
TE-averaged technique is a general application to measure Glutamate (Glu) [1], one primary excitatory neurotransmitter of the central 
nervous system on the 1H MR spectrum at 2.35 ppm. For obtaining TE-averaged MRSI data sets using multiple TEs was time 
consuming. Previous study had shown that radial proton echo planar spectroscopic imaging (rPEPSI) [2] and data-sharing radial 
PEPSI (dsrPEPSI) [3] were feasible to measure Glu, and the scan time could be reduced from 16 minutes to 1 minute by dsrPEPSI. 
However, the reduced scan time will decrease both SNR and spectrum quality. This study was conducted to investigate and optimize 
the spectral quality versus scan time.  
Material and Methods 
The experiment was performed at 3T MR system using 32-channels array head coil (Trio, Siemens Medical Solutions, Erlangen, 
Germany).  rPEPSI were collected in the range of πφ <≤0  with 32 views and 5.7° rotation angle. The imaging parameters are TR 
= 2000ms, readout point = 32 with over-sampling, FOV = 224mm, slice thickness = 15mm, NEX = 1. Complete 8-slice outer volume 
suppression was applied along the border of brain to reduce the extra cranial signal especially lipid. For TE-averaging, data were 
acquired with rPEPSI and 16 different TEs ranging from 15ms to 165ms. dsrPEPSI were simulated from full-sampled rPEPSI. A 
equally distributed subset of K-space lines were chose from full-sampled data for each TE, and the information of empty K-space lines 
was covered by data from other TEs. Figure 1 shows the diagram of radial trajectory of a 4-fold dsrPEPSI. The reconstruction of 
rPEPSI and dsrPEPSI were re-sampled into Cartesian grid using Kaiser-Bessel kernel [4] following with spectra post processing.  
Results and discussion 
The result was showed in Figure2. Glu at 2.35 ppm can be clearly seen in the TE-averaged rPEPSI data. When the acceleration factor 
was small, such as 2-fold dsrPEPSI, there was no obvious difference between the accelerated spectrum and the original one. But when 
the acceleration factor exceeds 4, SNR lost will affect the visibility and quantization of Glu. The baseline drift also increased as the 
acceleration factor increased, which may be resulted from the extra cranial lipid signal. From our result, 4-fold dsrPEPSI is feasible to 
acquire Glu at a 3T system while maintaining spectral quality. And 
the scan time can be reduced to 4 minutes, which is a reasonable 
length for clinical use.  
 References 
1. Hurd R., et al., Magn Reson Med, 2004, 51: p. 435-440. 
2. Lin YR., et al., ISMRM, Toronto, 2008 
3. Kuo KT., et al., ISMRM, Honolulu, 2009 
4. Dale B., et al., IEEE Trans Med Imaging, 2001, 20: p 207-17 
 
Figure 1. The K-space trajectory of dsrPEPSI for (a) TE=15ms, 
(b) TE=25ms, (c) TE=35ms, (d) TE=45ms and so on. For a 
4-fold dsrPEPSI, 8 K-space lines were used for each TE, and the 
required total scan time is 4 minutes.
Figure 2. Comparison of spectrum of TE-average rPEPSI and 
dsrPEPSI 
(a) (b) (c) (d) 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
協助醫院對肺部微灌流影像之分析了解 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
