 2
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫期中報告 
車載隨意行動網路之位置服務與網路移動管理 
計畫編號：99-2221-E-305-011 
執行期限：2010 年 08 月 01 日至 2011 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：莊東穎 教授    共 同 主 持 人：陳裕賢 教授 
執行單位：國立台北大學資訊工程系 
計畫參與人員：王致皓、劉美妙、鄭若辰、李後愷
中文摘要 
在車輛快速移動時，如何有效地減少換手的
延遲和維持車輛和網路的連接是很重要的
議題。現存的IP傳送協定在所有車輛都連接
的時候，可以有效的減少換手延遲和維持和
網路的連接，但是當車輛密度低，或是每台
車輛的速度不同時，由於網路區塊破碎，車
輛無法直接或是透過多點傳輸來通訊，因
此，當網路區塊破碎發生時，車輛無法以現
有的協定傳送IP位址到預期的車輛，進而增
加更長的換手延遲和封包遺失率，這樣的情
況會降低網路吞吐量。為了改善現存的IP傳
送協定，我們提出了一個在車用無線點對點
傳輸網路的網路區塊破碎IP傳送協定，這個
協定可以延長IP的生命週期，也可以選擇一
個比較快的方法去取得車輛新的IP位址。在
IP延長的生命週期中，車輛可以透過多點傳
輸，在相同的方向或是路徑上獲得IP位址，
藉以減少換手延遲和維持和網路的連結。透
過模擬的結果可以顯示出，我們提出的方法
能夠減少取得IP的時間、換手的延遲、封包
遺失率和延長IP的生命週期。 
 
關鍵字：車用無線點對點傳輸網路、網際網
路通訊協定傳送、移動管理、無線
網路、網路區塊破碎 
 
 
Abstract 
When a vehicle is moving fast in a highway, 
how to effectively reduce the handoff delay 
and maintain the connectivity of the vehicle to 
the Internet is an important issue. The existing 
IP passing protocol may be able to reduce the 
handoff delay and maintain the connectivity of 
the vehicle to the Internet when all the 
vehicles are connected. However, when the 
vehicle density is low or the speeds of 
vehicles are varied, the vehicle may not be 
able to communicate with the intended vehicle 
either directly or through multi-hop relays 
because of network fragmentation. Hence, 
when network fragmentation occurs, a vehicle 
cannot pass its IP address to the intended 
vehicle through existing IP passing protocols 
and thus incurs longer handoff latency and 
higher packet loss rate, and these would lower 
down the throughput of the network. To 
improve existing IP passing protocols, we 
propose an IP passing protocol for VANETs 
with network fragmentations. The proposed 
protocol can postpone the time to release IP 
addresses to the DHCP server (extend IP 
lifetime) and select a faster way to get the 
vehicle’s new IP address. During the extended 
IP lifetime, the vehicle can acquire an IP 
address through multi-hop relays from the 
vehicles on the lanes of the same or opposite 
direction, and thus reduces handoff delay and 
maintain the connectivity to the Internet. 
Simulation results have shown that the 
proposed scheme is able to reduce IP 
 4
have shown that the proposed scheme is able 
to reduce IP acquisition time, handoff latency, 
packet loss rate, and extend IP lifetime.  
The remainder of this paper is organized as 
follows. Section 2 overviews the system 
architecture, and the basic ideas of the 
proposed schemes. Section 3 describes the 
proposed IP passing protocol. Performance 
evaluation is presented in section 4. Section 5 
concludes this paper. 
II. PRELIMINARIES 
In this section, we first describe the 
assumptions and system architecture, and then 
we explain the challenges and basic ideas of 
this work. 
A. System Architecture 
The system architecture of our protocol is 
shown in Fig. 1. The proposed protocol is 
design for VANETs with network 
fragmentations in a highway with two lanes in 
each direction. We assume that there are base 
stations (BS) (e.g. WiMAX, 3G or 4G BS) 
scattered along the roadside. The home agent 
(HA) records the vehicle’s new location and 
the correspondence node (CN) serves as a 
remote server e.g. FTP or Web server etc. 
Each vehicle, regarded as a mobile node (MN), 
is equipped with two communication 
interfaces, one for communicating with the BS 
(e.g. WiMax, 3G or 4G Bs) and one for 
communicating with other vehicles. Each 
vehicle can connect to the Internet via 
WiMAX (or 3G/4G) interface and can 
communicates with other vehicles via IEEE 
802.11 (Wi-Fi or DSRC) interface. Fig. 2 
shows the protocol stack of the mobile node. 
In addition, each vehicle is equipped with 
registers to keep the IP address of the serving 
BS’s communication region, location obtained 
by GPS, driving speed and other related 
information. Two or more neighboring 
vehicles on the lanes of the same or opposite 
direction may be form as a virtual bus [12], 
which may acquire or pass IP addresses by the 
cooperation of the vehicles in the virtual bus 
as shown in Fig. 3. 
B. Basic idea and challenges 
On the highway, when a vehicle moves to a 
new subnet, the vehicle will receive broadcast  
Fig. 1. System architecture 
Fig. 2. Protocol stacks the mobile node 
Fig. 3. Forming virtual buses in VANETs 
packet from the target BS and most 
importantly perform the handoff procedure. 
The traditional handoff procedure includes 
two parts, the layer 2 (link layer) and layer 3 
(network layer) handoff procedures. The 
handoff procedure contains signal 
measurement, network layer movement 
detection, DAD procedure and registration. 
The DAD procedure is time consuming and 
thus will cause the link to be disconnected. 
On the highway, since the vehicle is moving 
so fast that the handoff latency must be 
reduced. Hence, how to acquire IP addresses 
immediately is a very important issue. The 
concepts of IP passing [8] and virtual bus [12] 
are adopted in our protocol so as to reduce the 
time to acquire a new IP address. However, 
the vehicle may not be able to acquire its new 
IP address through IP passing and virtual bus 
because of network fragmentation. To solve  
 6
LMN can communicate with EMN, it follows 
the existing IP passing protocol to pass its IP 
address to EMN. However, if LMN cannot 
pass its IP address to EMN due to network 
fragmentation, LMN will pass its IP address to 
KMN through the virtual bus as shown in Fig. 
5, such that LMN does not need to release its 
IP address to the DHCP server. Instead, its IP 
address is kept in KMN so that the IP address 
will have more chances to be passed to EMN. 
If there is no vehicle behind LMN that is on 
the lanes of the same direction, LMN will try 
to pass its IP address to the vehicle that is on 
the lanes of the opposite direction, as shown  
in Fig. 6. The IP address can also be passed to 
the vehicle on lanes of both directions through 
the cooperation of vehicles on the lanes of 
different directions as shown in Fig. 7. If 
LMN cannot find any proper KMN, it will 
release its IP address via the DHCP server. 
Note that, when KMN receives the IP 
passing packet from LMN, it will reply a keep 
IP ACK packet to LMN and keep LMN’s IP 
address. After LMN receives the keep IP ACK 
packet, it will break the connection with the 
target BS. As time goes by, KMN may 
approach the border of target BS’s 
communication region, it will become LMN 
and try to pass the IP address to EMN or other 
KMN. 
B. IP acquisition and handoff procedure 
In VANETs, how to reduce the IP 
acquisition time is a very important issue. As 
EMN enters the target BS’s communication 
region, EMN still connects to Internet via 
IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX) with previous access 
router (pAR) and performs the following IP 
acquisition procedure as shown in Fig. 8. For 
the ease of describing the IP acquisition 
procedure, we define the following notations: 
•Tacquisition: the time that EMN has already 
spent on acquiring an IP address from 
KMN. 
•Tth: the amount of time for EMN to send 
an IP request packet to KMN and receive 
an IP address from KMN. 
•TDHCP : the amount of time for EMN to 
send an IP request packet to the DHCP  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. LMN passes its IP address to KMN which is on 
the lanes of the same direction 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. LMN passes its IP address to KMN which is on 
the lanes of the opposite direction 
Fig. 7. LMN passes its IP address to KMN through the 
cooperation of the vehicles on the lanes of both 
directions 
Fig. 8. IP acquisition and handoff procedure 
server and receive an IP address from the 
DHCP server. 
S1: EMN broadcast an IP request packet to 
KMN and sets its timer and Tacquisition 
as 0. At the same time, it sends an IP 
request packet to the DHCP server. Note 
that any vehicle kept an IP address 
passed by LMN and is in the target BS’s 
communication region can perform as a 
KMN. 
 8
IV. Mathematical analysis 
To evaluate the performance of our protocol, 
we first analyze the performance of the 
proposed protocol and then we analyze the 
performance of the IP passing protocol [5] and 
compare it with the performance of the 
proposed protocol. 
A. Analysis results of the proposed protocol 
We use Markov chains to analyze the 
average IP acquisition time and the probability 
that KMN passes an IP address to EMN 
successfully of the proposed protocol. Two 
scenarios are considered in our analysis, the  
first scenario considers only the vehicles 
sdefined as follows: 
•m : the maximum possible number of 
vehicles which are on the lanes of the 
same direction and between KMN and 
EMN. 
•Rsi  : the ID of the i-th vehicle which is on 
the lanes of the same direction with KMN 
and is between KMN and EMN, where 
1 · i · m: 
•PRSi  : the probability that the IP address 
kept in KMN can be passed from vehicle 
KMN to RSi successfully if i = 1, or the     
probability that the IP address kept in 
KMN can be passed from RSi¡1 to RSi  
successfully if 2 · i · m:  (e.g. the 
distance between two adjacent vehicles is 
smaller than their communication range). 
•PEMN  : the probability that the IP address 
kept in KMN can be passed from Rsm to 
EMN successfully. 
•Ts average : the average IP acquisition time 
for EMN. 
Assume that the communication range of 
vehicles is r meters and the vehicle density of 
the lanes of the same direction is ¸s 
vehicles/meter. Vehicles are scattered along 
the highway with a Poisson distribution. The 
average number of vehicles on the lanes of the 
same direction within r meters can be derived 
as r¸s . The probability that two adjacent 
vehicles can communicate immediately is 
equal to the probability that there are at least 
two vehicles on the lanes of the same direction 
Fig. 13. Markov chains of the scenario that there are 
vehicles on the lanes of same direction 
Fig. 14. Markov chains of the scenario that there are 
vehicles on the lanes of both directions 
within the communication range r. The 
probability P simmed is derived as Eq. (1). 
P simmed = p(x > 1; r¸s) = 1¡ p(x = 1; r¸s) 
= 1¡ p(x = 1; r¸s)¡ p(x = 0; r¸s) 
= 1¡ r¸se¡r¸s :                (1) 
Assume that the moving speed of vehicles 
RSi¡1 and RSi  are V(i¡1)s and Vis m/s,  
respectively. The relative speed of vehicles 
RSi¡1  and RSi  is defined as 
¢v = Vis ¡ V(i¡1)s . If ¢v · 0 , since the 
distance between vehicles RSi¡1 and RSi  will 
not become shorter as time goes by, we let 
PRSi = P
S
immed. 
If ¢v > 0, the distance between vehicles 
RSi¡1 and RSi  will become shorter as time 
goes by. Assume that the available time that 
vehicle RSi¡1 can pass an IP address to the 
next vehicle is Tis  seconds, where 
Tis < TDHCP . Vehicle RSi¡1 can pass an IP 
address to vehicle RSi  within Tis seconds if 
their distance is smaller than r + Tis¢v 
 10
immediately is equal to the probability that 
there are at least one vehicle within the 
communication range r on each direction. The 
probability P SOimmed is derived as Eq. (5). 
P SOimmed = P (x > 0; r¸S) ² P (x > 0; r¸O) 
= (1¡ e¡r¸S) ² (1¡ e¡r¸O)      (5) 
The relative speed of vehicles RSi¡1 and 
ROj  is defined as ¢vOS = Vjo + V(i¡1)s and 
the relative speed of vehicles ROj¡1 and RSi  
is defined as ¢vOS = V(j¡1)o + Vis . If 
vehicles RSi¡1 and ROj  are approaching each 
other, vehicle RSi¡1 can pass an IP address to 
vehicle ROj  within Tis  seconds if their 
distance is smaller than r + Tis¢vis meters. 
Hence, the probability that vehicle RSi¡1 can 
pass an IP address to vehicle ROj  within Tis 
is the probability that there are at least one 
vehicle within r + Tis¢vis  meters on each 
direction. 
PRSOj  can be defined as Eq. (6): 
PRSOj = P (x > 0; (r + Tis¢vso)¸S)² 
P (x > 0; (r + Tis¢vso)¸O)   (6) 
whereP (x > 0; (r + Tis¢vso)¸S) ² P (x > 0;
(r + Tis¢vso)¸O) = (1 ¡ P (x = 0; (r +
Tis¢vso)¸S)) ² (1 ¡ P (x = 0; (r +
Tis¢vso)¸O)) = (1 ¡ e¡(r+Tis¢vso)¸S) ² (1 ¡
e¡(r+Tis¢vso)¸O):
  If vehicles RSi¡1 and ROj  are leaving each 
other, we let PRSOj = P
SO
immed: 
PROSj  can be derived in a similar manner as 
PRSOj , excepts that ¢vso and Tis are replaced 
by ¢vos and Tjo,  espectively. 
The probability that the IP address can be 
passed from KMN to the second vehicle (RS2 ) 
on the lanes of the same direction with KMN 
(denoted as Pall RS2  ) is derived as follows: 
Pall RS2 = PRS1 ² PRS2 + PRO1 ² PROS2 : 
The probability that the IP address can be 
passed from KMN to the second vehicle (RO2 ) 
on the lanes of the opposite direction with 
KMN (denoted as Pall RO2 ) is derived as 
follows: 
Pall RO2 = PRO1 ² PRO2 + PRS1 ² PRSO2 : 
The probability that the IP address can be 
passed from KMN to the i-th vehicle (RSi ) on 
the lanes of the same direction with KMN 
(denoted as Pall RSi ) is derived as follows: 
Pall RSi = Pall RSi¡1 ² PRSi + Pall ROi¡1ROSi : 
The probability that the IP address can be 
passed from KMN to the j-th vehicle (ROj ) on 
the lanes of the opposite direction with KMN 
(denoted as Pall ROj ) is derived as follows: 
Pall ROj = Pall ROi¡1 ² PROi + Pall RSi¡1RSOi : 
We can use dynamic programming to 
calculate Pall RSi  and Pall ROj . The probability 
that the IP address can be passed from KMN 
to EMN successfully from both directions 
(denoted as PSO pass) is derived as Eq. (7): 
PSO pass = PO EMN ² Pall ROj + 
PS EMN ² Pall RSi      (7) 
  EMN may acquire an IP address either from 
KMN or from the DHCP server. Therefore, 
the average IP acquisition time for EMN 
TSO average is derived as Eq. (8): 
TSO average = TSO pass ² PSO pass
+TDHCP ² (1¡ PSO pass); (8) 
where TSO pass  is the time required for 
passing an IP address from KMN to EMN 
through the vehicles on both directions. 
B. Comparison of the mathematical analysis 
results 
In the IP passing protocol, since the IP 
address can only be passed immediately, the 
probability that two adjacent vehicles can pass 
IP to each other is equal to 
P SOimmed = (1¡ e¡r¸S) ² (1¡ e¡r¸O) as shown 
in Eq. (5). Since PRSOj = (1¡ 
e¡(r+Tis¢vso)¸S) ² (1¡ e¡(r+Tis¢vso)¸O) or 
PRSOj = P
SO
immed;  and PRSOi = (1¡ 
e¡(r+Tjo¢vos)¸S) ² (1¡ e¡(r+Tjo¢vos)¸O) or 
PRSOi = P
SO
immed  (depends on the relative 
speed of two adjacent vehicles), we can imply 
that PRSOj ¸ P SOimmed  and PRSOi ¸ P SOimmed: 
Hence, the probability that IP address can be 
passed from LMN to EMN successfully 
 12
increases because higher speed tolerates 
shorter handoff delay, higher vehicle density 
incurs higher contentions and collisions, 
higher network fragmentation ratio hinders 
more IP passing to be success, and longer 
length of IP passing incurs longer propagation 
delay. Among the three schemes, the IP 
acquisition time of our scheme is the lowest, 
follows by the IP passing scheme and MIPv6 
scheme. Our scheme performs the best 
because our scheme can provide more chance 
than IP passing scheme does to make IP 
passing successfully. The MIPv6 scheme 
performs the worst because mostly it acquires 
the IP address from the DHCP server. The 
analysis results of our scheme are quite close 
to the simulation results, which indicates that 
our analysis is proper. 
B. IP lifetime 
Fig. 16 shows the impacts of vehicle speed, 
vehicle density, network fragmentation ratio 
and length of IP passing to IP lifetime. Since 
MIPv6 will always release its IP address to the 
DHCP server immediately, its IP lifetime is 0 
and hence its IP lifetime is not compared with 
other protocols. As the vehicle density, 
network fragmentation ratio and length of IP 
passing increases, the IP lifetime also 
increases. As the vehicle speed increases, the 
IP lifetime decreases. The IP lifetime of our 
scheme is longer than that of the IP passing 
scheme because in our scheme, even LMN 
cannot pass its IP address to EMN, it will still 
pass its IP address to the vehicle that remains 
in the target BS and thus postpones the time to 
release its IP to the DHCP server and extends 
IP lifetime. However, in the IP passing scheme, 
if LMN cannot pass its IP address to EMN, it 
will release its IP address to the DHCP server. 
C. Handoff latency 
Fig. 17 shows the impacts of vehicle speed, 
vehicle density, network fragmentation ratio 
and length of IP passing to handoff latency. 
Since the handoff latency is proportional to 
the IP acquisition time, the result is similar to 
that of the IP acquisition time. As the vehicle 
speed, vehicle density, network fragmentation 
ratio and length of IP passing increase, the 
handoff latency also increases. Among the 
three schemes, the handoff latency of our 
scheme is the lowest, follows by the IP  
Fig. 16. (a) IP lifetime vs. vehicle speed; (b) IP lifetime 
vs. vehicle density; (c) IP lifetime vs. network 
fragmentation ratio; (d) IP lifetime vs. length of IP 
passing (hops) 
Fig. 17. (a) Handoff latency vs. vehicle speed; (b) 
Handoff latency vs. vehicle density; (c) Handoff latency 
vs. network fragmentation ratio; (d) Handoff latency vs. 
length of IP passing (hops) 
passing scheme and MIPv6 scheme. Our 
scheme performs the best because our scheme 
has the lowest IP acquisition time; while 
MIPv6 has the highest IP acquisition time. 
D. Packet loss rate 
Fig. 18 shows the impacts of vehicle speed, 
vehicle density, network fragmentation ratio 
and length of IP passing to packet loss rate. As 
the vehicle speed, vehicle density, network 
fragmentation ratio and length of IP passing 
increases, the packet loss rate also increases. 
Among the three schemes, the packet loss rate 
of our scheme is the lowest, follows by the IP 
passing scheme and MIPv6 scheme. Our 
scheme performs the best because the handoff 
latency of our scheme is the shortest and thus 
its connection to Internet is the most stable 
 14
density also has great impact to the 
performance of the IP passing protocol 
because vehicle speed and vehicle density will 
affect network fragmentation ratio. Higher 
vehicle speed and lower vehicle density will 
incur higher network fragmentation ratio. 
Among all the performance metrics, a 
longer IP life time can provide a vehicle more 
chances to acquire its IP address through IP 
passing. With more chances to acquire an IP 
address through IP passing, the IP acquisition 
time can be reduced because IP passing is 
much faster than acquiring an IP address 
through the DHCP server. With a shorter IP 
acquisition time, the handoff delay can be 
reduced and thus the connectivity to the 
Internet becomes more stable, and hence the 
packet loss rate can be reduced and the 
throughput can be enhanced. However, to 
keep the IP address in KMN and to acquire an 
IP address from both of the DHCP server and 
KMN, more packets need to be sent and this is 
the “price” we must pay in the proposed 
protocol. 
VI. Conclusions 
In this paper, we have proposed an IP 
passing protocol for vehicular ad hoc 
networks with network fragmentation. 
Although IP passing may reduce handoff 
latency, but it cannot solve the network 
fragmentation problem because the IP address 
cannot be passed to the intended vehicle. In 
the proposed protocol, LMN will pass its IP 
address to the vehicle that remains in the 
target BS and thus postpones the time to 
release its IP to the DHCP server. During the 
extended IP lifetime, as a vehicle is going to 
enter the target BS, it can acquire an IP 
address through multi-hop relays from the 
vehicle which carries the released IP, and thus 
it can reduce the handoff delay and maintain 
the connectivity to Internet. Simulation results 
have shown that the proposed scheme is able 
to reduce IP acquisition time, packet loss rate, 
and extend IP lifetime with extra message 
overhead. 
In the future, we plan to design an IP 
acquisition protocol that can adjust its IP 
acquisition strategy according to the speed and 
density of vehicles so as to reduce the 
message overhead and achieve a shorter IP 
acquisition time. 
Acknowledgment 
This work was supported by grants 
NSC-97-2221-E-305-003-MY3, 
NSC-99-2221-E-305-011, and 
NSC-99-2221-E-128-002 from the National 
Science Council of the R.O.C. 
References 
[1] C. Perkins, IP mobility support for IPv4, in: 
Internet Engineering Task Force, IETF, 
RFC-3344, 2002. 
[2] D. Johnson, C. Perkins, J. Arkko, Mobility 
support in IPv6, in: Internet Engineering Task 
Force, IETF, RFC-3775, 2004. 
[3] R. Droms, H. Packard, T.L.B. Volz, C. Perkins, 
M. Carney, Dynamic host configuration 
protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6), in: Internet 
Engineering Task Force, IETF, RFC-3315, 
2003. 
[4] R. Droms, Dynamic host configuration 
protocol, in: Internet Engineering Task Force, 
IETF, RFC-2131, 1997. 
[5] W.L.T. Arnold, J. Zhao, IP address passing for 
VANETs, in: IEEE International Conference 
on Pervasive Computing and Communications, 
PERCOM, Hong Kong, 2007, pp. 70–79. 
[6] Y.-S. Chen, C.-H. Cheng, C.-S. Hsu, G.-M. 
Chiu, Network mobility protocol for vehicular 
ad hoc networks, in: Wireless Communications 
and Networking Conference, WCNC, 2009, pp. 
1–6. 
[7] M. Fazio, C.E. Palazzi, S. Das, M. Gerlas, 
Facilitating real-time applications in VANETs 
through fast address auto-configuration, in: 
The Proceedings of 4th IEEE Consumer 
Communications and Networking Conference, 
2007, pp. 981–985. 
[8] M. Fazio, C.E. Palazzi, S. Das, M. Gerla, 
Posters: automatic IP address configuration in 
VANETs, in: Proceedings of the 3rd 
International Workshop on Vehicular Ad Hoc 
Networks, 2006, pp. 100–101. 
[9] B.K. Mohandas, R. Liscano, IP address 
configuration in VANET using centralized 
DHCP, in: Local Computer Networks, LCN, 
2008, pp. 608–613. 
[10] J.M. Lee, M.J. Yu, Y.H. Yoo, S.G. Choi, A 
new scheme of global mobility management 
 16
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                    日期：100 年 8 月 31 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：車載隨意行動網路之位置服務與網路移動管理 
計畫主持人：莊東穎教授  共同主持人：陳裕賢教授 
計畫編號：99-2221-E-305-011             學
門領域：資訊工程學門 
技術/創作名稱 An IP Passing Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks with Network Fragmentations. 
發明人/創作人 Yuh-Shyan Chen, Chih-Shun Hsu, Wei-Han Yi 
中文：現今車載的 IP 傳遞協定為的是減在少換手時產生的延遲，
當車輛密度低或是車輛的速度多變時，車間的通訊可能會因為網路
的破碎而造成無法直接溝通或是藉由 multi-hop 的方式傳遞，所以
IP 位置也無法得知而造成封包遺失或是大量的延遲時間。為了改善
這個問題，我們提出了一個 IP 傳遞協定在具斷裂的隨意車載網路
中。此協定可以延緩 DHCP 伺服器釋放 IP 位址的時間並且挑選一
個較快速的方法來獲得新的 IP 位址，在延長的週期內，車輛可以
藉由 multi-hop 的方式（同方向或反方向的車輛）獲得 IP 位址，以
減少延遲時間病維持連線的狀態。 
技術說明 
英文: The existing IP passing protocol may be able to reduce the 
handoff delay and maintain the connectivity of the vehicle to the 
Internet when all the vehicles are connected. However, when the 
vehicle density is low or the speeds of vehicles are varied, the vehicle 
may not be able to communicate with the intended vehicle either 
directly or through multi-hop relays because of network fragmentation. 
Hence, when network fragmentation occurs, a vehicle cannot pass its 
IP address to the intended vehicle through existing IP passing protocols 
and thus incurs longer handoff latency and higher packet loss rate..To 
improve existing IP passing protocols, we propose an IP passing 
protocol for VANETs with network fragmentations. The proposed 
protocol can postpone the time to release IP addresses to the DHCP 
server (extend IP lifetime) and select a faster way to get the vehicle’s 
new IP address. During the extended IP lifetime, the vehicle can 
acquire an IP address through multi-hop relays from the vehicles on the 
lanes of the same or opposite direction, and thus reduces handoff delay 
and maintain the connectivity to the Internet. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用之產業：汽車工業、電子通訊產業、無線通訊產業 
可開發之產品：行車安全系統、緊急事故預防系統 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/15
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 車載隨意行動網路之位置服務與網路移動管理
計畫主持人: 莊東穎
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-305-011- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他
協助產業技術發展
之 具 體 效 益 事 項
等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
車用無線點對點傳輸網路的網路區塊破碎 IP 傳送協定可以延長 IP 的生命週期，
也可以選擇一個比較快的方法去取得車輛新的 IP 位址。在 IP 延長的生命週期中，
車輛可以透過多點傳輸，在相同的方向或是路徑上獲得 IP 位址，藉以減少換手延
遲和維持和網路的連結。這些協定讓使用者透過車網路上網能夠享受不斷線的服
務、高效率動態調整之媒體存取控制協定，與在多速率多天線無線隨意行動網路
環境下提出以多中繼點為基礎之媒體存取協定。另外根據車載無線隨意行動網路
的研究與展望，匯整目前車載技術與應用，寫下書目車載資通訊:無線架構與應用
和在跨層式的移動管理協定及應用，幫助相關領域的學者拓展研究廣度。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
