 1 
 
 
中文摘要 
網路環境中資訊的成長速度愈來愈快，過多的資訊讓使用者於蒐尋所需資
訊時需要花費大量之時間成本以找出符合需求的有用資訊。由本研究的探討顯
示，現有的推薦系統已有提供個人化與過濾等服務以協助使用者進行資訊的篩
選與推荐，但是，除了以使用者個人喜好觀點做為推薦之依據外，推薦系統如
何透過分析使用者於其所處社群網路環境中之價值，進一步提升系統的推薦效
能，則是本研究所欲探究之重點。因此，本研究提出以本體論與擴散激發模式
的概念應用於資訊推薦上，期望有效提高推薦系統的整體表現，並改善現今推
薦系統不足之處。在整個研究流程中，本研究運用本體論來建構使用者之輪廓
資料，並藉由概念階層做為推論使用者偏好之依據，接著利用擴散激發模式，
從使用者所處社群網路環境中蒐尋具有影響力之其他使用者族群，進而學習出
使用者之偏好，以提供相關資訊之推薦。本研究之實驗結果顯示，結合本體論
與擴散激發模式的網路分析方法可有效學習出使用者喜好，於資訊推薦品質方
面可有顯著之提升，相較於其他推薦系統而言，本研究實作之推薦系統有良好
之推薦效能表現，故應用本研究所提出之機制實作資訊推薦可以改進現今推薦
系統不足之處，同時亦能對推薦效能有正面之提升。  
關鍵詞：本體論、網路分析、擴散激發模式、推薦系統。 
 
Abstract 
The speed of information development in the network environment has become 
increasingly fast-paced. Yet the overabundance of information has forced users to spend more 
time and resources in searching for information relevant to their needs. Today, recommendation 
systems already exist that provide services like filtering, customization, and others to assist users 
in screening information. This study proposes to use ontology and the spreading activation model 
on information recommendation, hoping that it can elevate the performance of the 
recommendation system and also improve the shortcomings of today’s recommendation systems. 
This study utilizes ontology to construct user profiles and makes use of concept hierarchy as the 
basis to deduce the interests of users. Furthermore, this study takes advantage of the spreading 
activation model to search for other influential users in the network environment, making a study 
on their interests in order to provide recommendation on related information. Based on actual 
experiment results, the method of network analysis that combines ontology and the spreading 
activation model is effective in knowing the interests of users. Hence, using the mechanism 
proposed in this study can make up for the insufficiencies or shortcomings of other 
recommendation systems, at the same time it can have a positive upgrading effect on the 
effectiveness of the recommendation. 
Keywords: Ontology; Network analysis; Spreading activation model; Information 
recommendation 
 
 
 3 
 
relationships and values among the information.   
 
2. Literature review 
2.1 Cold-start Problems in Recommender system 
The so-called cold-start problem [7] pertains to the resulting phenomenon wherein in the 
initial learning stages of the recommendation system, despite the fact that information on user 
behavior was lacking or was difficult to gather, there was still a need to carry out 
recommendation service for the user. Since the recommendation system must rely on sufficient 
information, if related information was unable to be obtained, it will easily produce a cold-start 
problem and also hinder the effectiveness of the recommendation system, subsequently affecting 
the desire of the users to continue using the system. There are two cold-start problems as follows: 
(1) New-system cold-start  
In its initial utilization, the new system still has no records of evaluation and 
recommendation from users of the products. Hence, it is natural that the system lacks related 
information and profiles about users.  
(2) New-user cold-start  
Even after the system has been functioning for a period of time and has also already 
gathered and stored a portion of user profiles and evaluation records, for the new user, the system 
is still unable to search for useful information for recommendation, hence, it could not satisfy the 
needs of new users.  
For the past conventional recommendation mechanism, whether it is content-based 
recommendation or collaborative recommendation, there have still been difficulties in 
overcoming the cold-start problem. Most web objects are represented by a multimedia type of 
information so it is difficult to analyse them with content-based filtering methods. In addition, the 
collaborative filtering method can only be applied within a homogenous type of information 
domain and suffers from the cold-start problem [8-9]. Although no definite conclusion exists on 
the best solution for improvement, many studies have pointed out that the system integrating 
content-based and collaborative approaches may constitute a better recommendation result.  
 
2.2 Ontology Network Analysis (ONA) 
(1) Ontology 
Based on the definition given by Guarino and Giaretta [10] on ontology，ontology is defined 
as the conceptualization of knowledge domain. Its composition elements, for instance, entities, 
attributes, relationships, and axioms can be expressed in a way that not only humans can be able 
to understand but also machines can interpret them. Aside from this, Hendler [11] also tried to 
made an explanation for ontology, that is, ontology may be viewed as the combination of 
knowledge terminologies, including vocabularies, semantic interconnections, some simple rules 
of inference, and logic for some particular topics. 
The strengths of ontology lie in providing a conceptual description for knowledge domain. 
Following this definition, relationships among entities are also given a rich explaining ability for 
semantics. In recent years, ontology development keeps on growing up [12-13]. Its primary 
 5 
 
pre-adjustment, spreading and post-adjustment. The termination condition is contingent 
upon whether or not the process has reached a state wherein it has stop spreading or has 
returned to the adjustment stage. 
 
The advantage of the spreading activation model lies in its ability to make limitations on 
related requirements of the pre-adjustment and the post-adjustment stages. This method 
greatly enhances the spreading effectiveness of the nodes in the Semantic Web. As a result, 
applying this in information retrieval can effectively improve the quality of information 
recommendation. 
 
3. Research methodology 
 
3.1 Description of Research Problem 
This study attempts to make use of related techniques in ontology to implement an academic 
paper recommendation system. Through ontology network analysis, the possible association 
between users is explored, with deductions based on how strong or how weak the degree of 
association is, in finding people with the same characteristics, same likes, or same research 
background, and this is used as a foundation for collaborative recommendation of research papers. 
After which, learning results will be returned to the user profiles in order to increase the 
adjustment of the system, hoping that it will effectively assist users who are searching for 
academic papers, and give them valuable recommendation information.  
 
3.2 Design of system architecture 
The system architecture of this study, its modules and the process flow are shown in Figure 1. 
Related details are discussed below.  
 
                              Fig. 1. System architecture 
3.3 User profiling module 
Adomavicus and Tuzhilin [21] pointed out that the establishment or creation of user profiles 
is very crucial to achieve a personalized recommendation service. Hence, the function of the user 
profiling module in this study is to use the ontology model to express related research topics 
 7 
 
interests, wherein the user gives evaluation on the recommended papers, and through this, 
the respective weight value that is needed to perform the weighting computation is decided. 
Summarizing the above, the formula to compute the research interest of users is shown 
below. 
∑∑
==
+=
n
j
j
m
i i
i
c
cInterestTopic
cTime
cInterestBrowsedcInterestTopic
11 2
)(_
)(
)(_
)(_  (1) 
 
                       Fig. 3. Generating the lowest common ancestor 
3.4 Ontology network analysis (ONA) 
The function of the network analysis module is to understand the network environment 
where the users are in, establishing a link between users, and taking a step further to analyze how 
strong or how weak the association is in order to probe and search for users who have similar 
research interests or backgrounds. This can later be used as reference basis for collaborative paper 
recommendation in order to increase the precision rate of recommendation. The related processes 
are demonstrated in Figure 4.   
(1) Spreading activation model analyst (SAM analyst) 
The spreading activation model is primarily used on searching for similar concepts on the 
concept graph. This study will integrate both the comparison of the degree of similarity on user 
profile ontology and the spreading activation model in order to search for user groups who have 
inclinations towards similar or related research topics.  
 
                    Fig. 4. Ontology network analysis module 
 9 
 
3.5 Recommender module 
Recommender module picks up the target user profile ontology after it has been updated, 
choosing the Top-N research topics which users are most interested in and give recommendation 
based on the classification of papers. The choice of papers will give priority recommendation to 
those topics that have not been clicked on and read by target users, hoping that it can provide 
users with more recent and up-to-date information. The module process is expressed in Figure 5 
below:  
 
                     Fig. 5. Recommender module 
 
4. Experiments 
4.1 Evaluation index 
This study primarily utilizes the technique of ontology network analysis on information 
recommendation. Hence, from the point of view of system evaluation, two parts will be carried 
out respectively.  
4.2 Evaluation of effectiveness of ontology network analysis 
The implementation of ontology network analysis is dependent on constructing the user 
profile ontology and activation process flow of the spreading activation model. Similar to the 
earlier mentioned cold-start problems of recommendation systems, both “new-system cold-start” 
and “new-user cold-start” problems will create bottlenecks when the system is carrying out its 
recommendation, hence, in the experiment, this study will evaluate how it has improved the 
problem of “new-system cold-start” after constructing the user profile ontology. Aside from this, 
user profile ontology will be used on the spreading activation model in order to examine the 
changes before and after spreading and whether it is effective in improving the problem of 
“new-user cold-start”. Generally speaking, evaluation measures primarily include user profile 
ontology growth rate and spreading activation model contribution rate. The formulae are 
expressed as follows: 
     User Profile Ontology Growth Rate = SAMBeforeTopic
SAMAfterTopic
N
N
__
__
 
       (4) 
         SAM Contribution Rate = 
])(_[1
1
∑
=
N
u
uValueNetwork
N
                
(5) 
 11 
 
the research article recommendation of the system. This proportion examines how correct the 
system is in recommending articles of interest to users. On the other hand, recall estimates the 
ability that the system can learn and also provide the right recommendation among the articles of 
interest for the users, that is, it examines the degree that the system is able to satisfy the needs of 
the users. Aside from this, because there is an inverse relation between precision and recall, this 
study combines these two indices, using F1 index to estimate article recommendation to avoid the 
condition of inverse relation between precision and recall, hoping that through using F1 index the 
objectivity of the whole recommendation system can be achieved. The formula used is as follows 
[27]: 
callecision
callecisionF
RePr
RePr21 +
××=
 
               
(8) 
 
4.4 Evaluation of experiments 
The experiment primarily evaluates the ability of improving the “cold-start” problem by user 
profile ontology growth rate and spreading activation model contribution rate. The experiment 
also evaluates the precision, recall and F1 indices of the system for document recommendation in 
order to see how these indices achieve the best recommendation effectiveness under different 
activation value threshold setups and under the influence of user profile ontology growth rate and 
spreading activation model contribution rate. 
This experiment primarily tests the changes in user profile ontology growth rate and the 
contribution value that a user may obtain under different activation values of the system 
environment. Furthermore, in a condition where the system is able to achieve the best 
recommendation effectiveness, the experiment decides the best activation value. The activation 
value threshold and the combined result of all the evaluation indices organized in this study is 
demonstrated in Table 1.  
             Table 1. Activation value threshold condition and evaluation indices 
Activation value 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 
Growth rate 0.833 0.971 1.482 1.182 1.239 1.355 1.302 1.282 1.269
Contribution rate 0.603 0.629 0.675 0.717 0.742 0.826 0.808 0.781 0.774
F1 0.706 0.762 0.785 0.811 0.813 0.817 0.774 0.764 0.749
 
Because the system altogether mirrors two rising and falling changes, it is observed when the 
activation values are 0.3 and 0.6 respectively, the user profile ontology growth rate has better 
performance. On the other hand, when the activation value is set at 0.6, it is able to improve the 
contribution rate of the spreading activation model. At the same time, the F1 index of system 
document recommendation can achieve the best effectiveness under the same activation value. It 
is observed that when the activation value is set at 0.3 the user profile ontology growth rate 
showed a striking phenomenon, because before and after setting the activation value at 0.3, there 
have been ups and downs by a wide margin in growth rate, this shows that at this point, the 
system is still at the adjustment stage of learning about the research topic interest of users. 
Furthermore, it is also affected by the problem of “new-system cold-start”, in which the system 
 13 
 
[7] D. Maltz and K. Ehrlich, Pointing the way: active collaborative filtering, In: 1995 ACM 
SIGCHI Conference: Proceedings of CHI’ 95, (ACM Press, New York, 1995), pp. 202-209. 
[8] P.S. Yu, Data mining and personalization technologies. In: Proceedings of the 6th 
International Conference on Advanced Systems for Advanced Applications (1999) 6–13. 
[9] S.Y. Chen and X. Liu, The contribution of data mining to information science, Journal of 
Information Science 30(6) (2004) 550-558. 
[10] N. Guarino and P. Giaretta, Ontologies and knowledge bases: towards a terminological 
clarification. In: N. Mars (ed.), Towards very large knowledge bases, (IOS Press, 
Amersterdam, 1995), pp. 25-32. 
[11] J.A. Hendler, Agents and the Semantic Web, IEEE Intelligent Systems 16(2) (2001) 30-37. 
[12] H. Alani, S. Kim, D.E. Millard, M.J. Weal, W. Hall and P.H. Lewis, Automatic 
ontology-based knowledge extraction from web documents, IEEE Intelligent Systems 18(1) 
(2003) 14–21. 
[13] S.S. Weng, H.J. Tsai, S.C. Liu and C.H. Hsu, Ontology construction for information 
classification, Expert Systems with Applications 31(1) (2006) 1-12. 
[14] Y. Kalfoglou, H. Alani, K. O’Hara, and N. Shadbolt, Initiating organizational memories 
using ontology network analysis, In: 15th European Conference on Artificial Intelligence: 
Proceedings of ECAI 2002 Workshop on Knowledge Management and Organizational 
Memories, (Lyon, 2002). 
[15] H. Alani, S. Dasmahapatra, K. O’Hara and N. Shadbolt, Identifying communities of practice 
through ontology network analysis, IEEE Intelligent Systems 18(2) (2003) 18-25. 
[16] L. Liao and K. Xu, Constructing intelligent and open mobile commerce using a semantic 
web approach, Journal of Information Science 31(5) (2005) 407-419. 
[17] A. Collins and E.F. Loftus, A spreading activation theory of semantic processing, 
Psychological Review, 82 (1975) 407-425. 
[18] A. Roelofs, A spreading-activation theory of lemma retrieval in speaking. Cognition 42 
(1992) 107-142. 
[19] D.A. Balota and R.F. Lorch, Depth of automatic spreading activation: Mediated priming 
effects in pronunciation but not in lexical decision. Journal of Experimental Psychology: 
Learning, Memory, Cognition, 12 (1986) 336-345. 
[20] F. Crestani, Application of spreading activation techniques in information retrieval, Artificial 
Intelligence Review 11(6) (1997) 453-482. 
