 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
整合遠距居家照護服務與葡萄糖生醫感測系統平台之研發 III 
Research on the integrated platform based on the distance home care and 
glucose biosensing system III 
 
計畫編號： NSC 97-2221-E-309-001  
主持人： 熊慎幹  長榮大學科技工程管理學系 教授 
共同主持人： 周榮泉  國立雲林科技大學電子工程系(所) 副教授 
 孫台平  國立暨南大學電機工程學系(所) 教授 
計畫參與人員： 李盛凱、陳啟維  
執行單位： 長榮大學科技工程管理學系  
 
一、中文摘要 
    本專題研究計畫係以二氧化錫/氧化
銦錫/聚對苯二甲酸乙二酯電極為基板，研
製電壓式葡萄糖感測器。此外本專題亦結
合趨勢材料-甲殼素與奈米碳管作為電子
傳遞層，以增加感測度。為降低成本及簡
化製程步驟，本專題研究計畫進一步以氧
化銦錫/聚對苯二甲酸乙二酯薄膜電極為
基礎進行研究，並藉由射頻濺鍍技術及酵
素固定化技術，分別將二氧化錫薄膜及葡
萄糖氧化酵素固定於電極材料上，故具備
可拋棄式及低成本之優點。 
此外，無線離子感測器亦被製作與討
論，其數據能藉由藍芽模組傳輸，並以虛
擬儀表紀錄與呈現。 
 
關鍵詞：二氧化錫/氧化銦錫/聚對苯二甲酸
乙二酯電極、葡萄糖感測器、電
壓式、二氧化錫薄膜、PIC 微處
理、藍芽模組、虛擬儀表。 
 
一、英文摘要 
 
This study presents a tin oxide/indium tin 
oxide/polyethylene terephthalate (SnO2/ITO/ 
PET) electrode-based potentiometric glucose 
biosensor. Moreover, a mediator layer of 
chitosan (Ch) and carbon nano-tubes (CNTs) 
was utilized in the glucose biosensor. To 
reduce cost, the substrate for sputtering the 
SnO2 thin film was deposited on the 
ITO/PET substrate. The SnO2 thin film was 
sputtered onto an ITO/PET electrode to 
develop a SnO2/ITO/PET pH sensor. The 
SnO2 electrode was prepared by depositing 
the SnO2 thin film onto an ITO/PET 
electrode. The glucose biosensors were 
fabricated by co-immobilizing glucose 
oxidase (GOD) and electron transfer 
mediator layer (chitosan and carbon 
nano-tubes) onto the SnO2/ITO/PET 
substrate. 
    Moreover, ion sensors based on tin 
oxide (SnO2)/ indium tin oxide (ITO) glasses 
were developed. Those sensors are pH, 
potassium, sodium, and chloride sensor. The 
pH sensor is based on a SnO2/ ITO glasses. 
Besides, data can be transmitted by 
Bluetooth module, then recorded and 
displayed by graphic LabVIEW program 
module in 10m. The test results show the 
measurement data are near real data. 
 
Keywords: tin oxide/indium tin oxide/ polye- 
          thylene terephthalate (SnO2/ITO/ 
          PET) electrode, glucose 
biosensor, potentiometric, SnO2 
thin film, PIC microcontroller, 
Bluetooth module, LabVIEW 
program module. 
 
二、計畫源由與目的 
 
Biosensors have been developed for over 
35 years and become very popular for 15 
years [1]. Among these biosensors, glucose 
biosensors still account for approximately 85 
% of the current world market due to their 
usefulness in diabetes analysis [2]. 
Until now, most published papers utilized 
chitosan (Ch) and carbon nano-tubes (CNTs) 
to detect glucose concentration of the 
 4
The SnO2/ITO/PET electrode was 
fabricated by sputtering the SnO2 thin film 
onto an ITO/PET electrode with a thickness 
of 200 nm. Fig. 1 shows the structure of the 
SnO2/ITO/PET electrode. During the 
fabricating process, the sputter time was 80 
minutes and the sputter pressure was 20 
mttor. 
 
Fabrication of a SnO2/ITO/PET glucose 
biosensor  
The potentiometric glucose biosensors 
were based on the SnO2 thin film in this 
study. The SnO2 electrode was fabricated by 
sputtering the SnO2 thin film onto the 
ITO/PET electrode with a thickness of 
200nm. To fabricate the SnO2 glucose 
biosensor, glucose oxidase layer and electron 
transfer mediator layer (chitosan and carbon 
nano-tubes) were co-immobilized onto the 
SnO2 electrode by 3-glycidyloxypropyl 
trimethoxysilane (3-GPTS). The mixtures of 
the enzyme and the mediator were then 
co-immobilized onto the SnO2 electrode in 
one step without pretreatment. Finally, the 
sensors were shielded from light and allowed 
to soak for 12 hours at 4 °C in a refrigerator. 
 
Design of the front-end analog readout 
circuits 
    The readout circuit in the PIC module 
includes five blocks: amplifier, high pass 
filter, gain stage, level shift and low pass 
filter. Fig. 2 shows the schematic of 
front-end analog readout circuits.  
The instrumentation amplifiers circuit 
consists of two parts: one is the buffering 
amplifier (A1 and A2) and the other is the 
differential amplifier (A3). The buffering 
amplifier part not only provides gain, but 
also prevents the sensor resistance from 
affecting the resistors in the circuit. In this 
paper, the negative inputs were connected 
with the sensing electrodes and the Ag/AgCl 
reference electrode of the multi-ions sensors, 
respectively. The amplifier ratio of 
instrumentation amplifier is set at unit. To 
cancel the DC offset voltages and 
maintaining signal to noise ratio for the 
signal processing, the second order high pass 
filter based on the Butterworth structure was 
chosen in this paper. The low-3db frequency 
of this filter is set at 2Hz. The main gain of 
this readout circuits is provided by gain stage 
circuit. Where, R5 and R6 are the gain and 
feedback controller resistances. The level 
shift circuit moves sensing signal to suitable 
level for A/D converter. To design the level 
shift circuit is based on the circuit 
characteristics of the operational amplifier, 
virtual short and superposition principle. 
Where, Vref is the reference voltage, which is 
to adjust the suitable level of the signal. Low 
pass filter is also based on Butterworth 
structure. It is used to reject external noise. 
Therefore, the system increases the signal to 
noise ratio. The high -3db frequency is set at 
50Hz. 
 
PIC Microcontroller 
In this paper, the PIC microcontroller 
(Model, PIC18F452) manufactured by the 
Microchip Inc. is used in this system, which 
is a low-power, high-performance, and 
battery-powered microcontroller. 
The PIC18F452 has built-in 10 bit 
successive approximation type A/D converter. 
It is suitable for the application of the 
sensing system. And can work less support 
circuit for the sensor signal processing. By 
an embedded system design, the sensing 
signal of the multi-ions sensors can be 
quantified to digital signals with the built-in 
10 bit successive approximation type A/D 
converter and processed in the 
microcontroller PIC18F452. Fig. 3 shows the 
picture of readout circuit and microprocessor 
module. 
 
Bluetooth communication module 
After processing the sensing signals 
from the PIC microcontroller module, the 
measurement results can be transferred to the 
computer with wireless method by the 
Bluetooth communication module. 
Bluetooth wireless technology is a 
 6
SnO2/ITO/PET potentiometric glucose 
biosensor immersed in 100 mg/dl glucose 
solution, the maximum voltage response, 175 
mV, occurred after 5 hours. The circumstance 
is shown in Figure 10. 
 
PIC microcontroller and Bluetooth 
module 
PIC microcontroller (Model, 
PIC18F452) is used in this system, which is 
low-power microcontroller around 8 mW at 
4MHz working frequency [18], 
high-performance up to 10 MIPs operation, 
battery-powered microcontroller between 2.0 
and 5.5 V suits for low voltage (3.5V) design, 
and the flash memory of 32 K bytes. 
Moreover, the built-in 10 bit successive 
approximation type A/D converter can 
reduce the complex of circuits.  
    Bluetooth module is also a main device 
in this system. In addition, Bluetooth 
wireless technology has a wide variety of 
applications like voice and data applications 
from short range to long range. Compare 
Bluetooth technology to other technologies is 
find that are robustness, low power, and low 
cost communication device [19]. 
 
Software design in PIC microcontroller 
and computer 
    The main functions in PIC program are 
reading data from 10bits A/D converter, 
manage data, and transmit it to Bluetooth 
module by RS232 port. The two point 
calibration is set at pH 4 and pH 7 on pH 
sensor, the resolution of pH sensor is 0.1 pH 
value. For human blood range detection, the 
two points is set at 3mM and 8mM for 
potassium measurement and at 125mM and 
175mM for both sodium and chloride 
measurement. Moreover, resolution of those 
sensors is 1mM. The response time in 
readout circuit and PIC microcontroller is 
less than 1 second. To compare the other 
related papers for the wireless system, the 
comparison results were listed in Table 1 [16, 
17, 20, 21]. 
    As the computer change, the Labview 
graphic language is used in this system. 
Labview language is graphical data flow 
language and block diagram approach 
naturally represent the flow of data and 
intuitively map user interface controls to data, 
so programmers can easily view and modify 
data or control inputs [40]. Labview program 
display screen is shown in Fig. 5 which is 
work normally meanwhile the measurement 
can show in computer and real time. 
 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
 
本專題研究之相關研究成果如下所示: 
(1) In this study, the SnO2/ITO/PET 
electrode was used as a pH sensor for 
pH detection. Moreover, the 
potentiometric glucose biosensors were 
integrated in separative structure 
extended gate field effect transistor 
(EGFET), which were fabricated on the 
SnO2 thin film by the radio frequency 
(R.F) sputter method of semiconductor 
fabrication. 
(2) In this study, based on the mediator 
layer of chitosan (Ch) and carbon 
nano-tubes (CNTs), the detection limit 
of the SnO2/ITO/PET potentiometric 
glucose biosensor reached 450 mg/dl 
and the output signal was enlarged to 
200 mV. 
(3) In this study, the SnO2/ITO/PET 
electrode showed pH-sensitivity in the 
range of pH 2-12 with the sensitivity of 
59 mV/pH. To integrate the 
potentiometric glucose biosensors in 
one substrate, the 3-GPTS was applied 
to immobilize GOD and mediator layer 
on the SnO2/ITO/PET electrode. 
(4) In this study, because the mediator 
layer posses its own specific 
advantages, the glucose detection 
determined upon the SnO2/ITO/PET 
pH sensor will achieve the merits of 
potentiometric glucose biosensors. 
(5) The enzyme activity and the ability of 
the electron mediator were such that the 
 8
327-333, 2009. 
[5] F. R. R. Teles and L. P. Fonseca, 
"Applications of polymers for 
biomolecule immobilization in 
electrochemical biosensors," 
Materials Science and Engineering C, 
vol. 28, pp. 1530-1543, 2008. 
[6] J. Yang, R. Zhang, Y. Xu, P. He, and 
Y. Fang, "Direct electrochemistry 
study of glucose oxidase on Pt 
nanoparticle-modified aligned carbon 
nanotubes electrode by the assistance 
of chitosan–CdS and its biosensoring 
for glucose," Electrochemistry 
Communications, vol. 10, pp. 
1889-1892, 2008. 
[7] M. Yang, Y. Yang, H. Yang, G. Shen, 
and R. Yu, "Layer-by-layer 
self-assembled multilayer films of 
carbon nanotubes and platinum 
nanoparticles withpolyelectrolyte for 
the fabrication of biosensors," 
Biomaterials, vol. 27, pp. 246-255, 
2006. 
[8] H. Zhao and H. Ju, "Multilayer 
membranes for glucose biosensing 
via layer-by-layer assembly of 
multiwall carbon nanotubes and 
glucose oxidase," Analytical 
Biochemistry, vol. 350, pp. 138-144, 
2006. 
[9] Y. Zhoua, H. Yangb, and H. Y. Chen, 
"Direct electrochemistry and 
reagentless biosensing of glucose 
oxidase immobilized on chitosan 
wrapped single-walled carbon 
nanotubes," Talanta, vol. 76, pp. 
419-423, 2008. 
[10] Y. Zou, C. Xiang, L. Sun, and F. Xu, 
"Amperometric glucose biosensor 
prepared with biocompatible material 
and carbon nanotube by 
layer-by-layer self-assembly 
technique," Electrochimica Acta, vol. 
53, pp. 4089-4095, 2008. 
[11] Y. Zou, C. Xiang, L.-X. Sun, and F. 
Xu, "Glucose biosensor based on 
electrodeposition of platinum 
nanoparticles onto carbon nanotubes 
and immobilizing enzyme with 
chitosan-SiO2 sol-gel," Biosensors 
and Bioelectronics, vol. 23, pp. 
1010-1016, 2008. 
[12] L. T. Yin, J. C. Chou, W. Y. Chung, T. 
P. Sun, K. P. Hsiung, and S. K. 
Hsiung, "Glucose ENFET doped with 
MnO2 powder," Sensors and 
Actuators B, vol. 76, pp. 187-192, 
2001. 
[13] L. C. Chirwa, P. A. Hammond, S. Roy, 
and D. R. S. Cumming, 
"Electromagnetic Radiation from 
Ingested Sources in the Human 
Intestine between 150 MHz and 1.2 
GHz," IEEE Transactions on 
Biomedical Engineering, vol. 50, pp. 
484-492, 2004. 
[14] P. A. Hammond, D. Ali, and D. R. S. 
Cumming, "A System-on-Chip 
Digital pH Meter for Use in a 
Wireless Diagnostic Capsule," IEEE 
Transactions on Biomedical 
Engineering, vol. 52, pp. 687-694, 
2005. 
[15] E. A. Johannessen, L. Wang, L. Cui, 
T. B. Tang, M. Ahmadian, A. Astaras, 
S. W. J. Reid, P. S. Yam, A. F. Murray, 
B. W. Flynn, S. P. Beaumont, D. R. S. 
Cumming, and a. J. M. Cooper, 
"Implementation of Multichannel 
Sensors for Remote Biomedical 
Measurements in a Microsystems 
Format," IEEE Transactions on 
Biomedical Engineering, vol. 51, pp. 
525-535, 2004. 
[16] W. Y. Chung and S. J. Oh, "Remote 
monitoring system with wireless 
sensors module for room 
environment," Sensors and Actuators 
B, vol. 113, pp. 64-70, 2006. 
[17] Y. H. Lin, I. C. Jan, P. C. I. Ko, Y. Y. 
Chen, J. M. Wong, and G. J. Jan, "A 
wireless PDA-based physiological 
monitoring system for patient 
transport," IEEE Transactions on 
Information Technology in 
 10
  
 SnO2 ITO PET Epoxy
Fig. 1 Structure of pH sensor based on SnO2/ITO/PET. 
Fig. 2 Schematic of front-end analog readout circuits. 
Fig. 3 Readout circuit and microprocessor module. 
