可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年10月 1 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：三維無線感測網路中位置定位系統設計及實作(II) 
計畫主持人：歐家和 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2218-E-251 -003 - 學門領域：資訊 
技術/創作名稱 三維無線感測網路位置定位系統增強技術 
發明人/創作人 歐家和 
中文： 
多種增強技術（包含弦的選擇、圓截面選取與隨機信號排程）來改
善三維無線感測網路位置定位技術的效能。 
技術說明 英文： 
Various enhancement techniques (chord selection, circular cross 
section selection, and jittered beacon scheduling) have been introduced 
to further improve the performance of the localization technique  for 
three-dimensional wireless sensor networks. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用於感測網路環境監測、工程或軍事相關產業， 
可開發三維定位模組於 Mica 或 Tmote Sky 等相關系列產品。 
 
技術特點 
1. 更好的定位精確度、更快的定位時間與更少的訊息耗費。 
2. 感測節點不需要特殊的硬體支援，感測節點與感測節點之間也
不需要任何的資訊交換，並且與網路密度以及拓樸無關。 
推廣及運用的價值 
無需特殊硬體設備即可提供高精確度的無線感測網路三維定位系
統。 
 
1. 前言 
 
This report implemented a range-free localization scheme for three-dimensional 
wireless sensor networks. The mechanism utilizes the location information 
transmitted from flying anchors to determine the positions of the sensor nodes. Based 
on standard geometric corollaries, each sensor node computes its position locally. 
Various enhancement strategies (i.e. chord selection, circular cross section selection, 
and jittered beacon scheduling) have been introduced to further improve the 
performance of the localization scheme. A series of simulations have been performed 
using the ns-2 network simulator to evaluate the performance of the mechanism. The 
simulation results have shown that even when radio irregularities and GPS errors are 
taken into account, the position determination mechanism outperforms both Centroid 
and Constraint in terms of a higher location accuracy. In addition, the localization 
scheme is implemented on the Tmote Sky for validating the feasibility in the real 
environment. 
 
2. 研究目的 
 
Recent years have witnessed a rapid growth of research into wireless sensor 
networks as a means of developing advanced monitoring and control applications [1]. 
Wireless sensor networks are now widely used in many fields, including 
environmental and habitat monitoring, medical diagnostics, and disaster rescue. In 
most emerging applications, each sensor node is required to report not only its sensing 
data, but also its current position. Therefore, developing effective localization 
schemes has become a pressing issue in the advancement of wireless sensor networks. 
The Global Positioning System (GPS) [2] is the most widely used localization 
technique currently. However, fitting GPS receivers to a large number of sensor nodes 
is not cost effective in most applications. 
Sensor networks may often be deployed over three-dimensional areas in real 
applications, such as military sensing devices deployed in a non-planar battlefield, a 
sensor network floating in the air for tracking chemical plumes [3], or a fire 
monitoring network in a mountainous forest. For example, a helicopter drops a large 
number of sensors for monitoring temperature in a mountainous forest. The sensors 
could be deployed on trees or on the ground. Therefore, sensor localization for the 
three-dimensional space is needed. A review of the literature relating to the 
localization issue reveals that while two-dimensional sensor networks have been 
 2
4. 研究方法 
 
Several enhancement mechanisms (chord selection, circular cross section 
selection, and jittered beacon scheduling) are developed for improving the 
performance of the localization scheme. 
 
4.1 Beacon Scheduling 
 
For beacon collisions problem, the performance of the localization mechanism is 
enhanced by introducing a jittered scheduling strategy for the beacon messages. In 
this strategy, the jitter time is randomly chosen from a uniform distribution in the 
interval 0 to 0.01 ∗ beacon interval. The jittered beacon interval is therefore given 
by:  
 
Jittered beacon interval = beacon interval + jitter time. 
 
This jittered scheduling approach reduces the probability of beacon collisions at 
the sensor nodes and therefore each sensor node can efficiently acquire the beacon 
messages sent by the various flying anchors. 
 
4.2 Chord Selection 
 
As shown in Fig. 1, the localization mechanism may fail to provide accurate 
estimates of the node location since the chords are generated based on erroneous 
beacon points. The probability of failed localization increases when the sensor node 
location is estimated from short chords. Therefore, a minimum threshold value (λ) is 
specified for the chord length to ensure the accuracy of the localization procedure. 
The relationship between this threshold value and the radius of the communication 
sphere (R) is given by:  
 
0 < λ ≤ 2R. 
 
To reduce the localization error, the length of a chord must surpass the threshold 
value. 
 
 4
 
Fig. 2 Circular cross section selection. 
 
4.4 Experiments 
 
Our localization scheme was also implemented in the real wireless sensor 
network. The Tmote Sky on the TinyOS platform was used for the implementation. 
The Tmote Sky is an IEEE 802.15.4 compliant wireless sensor module and operates 
in the band of 2.4GHz. The Tmote Sky has a Chipcon radio chip and an onboard 
internal antenna. The radio propagation pattern of the internal antenna in the Tmote 
Sky is non-uniform. 
 
The experiments were conducted in a outdoor open field. There were two Tmote 
Sky nodes used in the experiments. One was selected as the anchor; the other was 
chosen as the sensor. The sensor held by a person was fixed in a location. The anchor 
carried by a person traveled around the sensor’s vicinity. The anchor knew its location 
and set its power level to 3 for broadcasting beacon messages. Based on our 
localization algorithm, the sensor estimates its position by receiving beacon messages 
from the anchor. The experiments gathered 100 samples for performance evaluations. 
 
5. 結果與討論 
 
5.1. Simulation Setting 
 
The sensing space in the present simulations was 100 * 100 * 100 m3 and 
contained a total of 300 randomly deployed sensor nodes. The transmission range of 
 6
length threshold values, i.e. 0%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, and 50%. Note that a 
threshold value of 0% indicates that no restriction is imposed on the length of the 
chord. As shown in Fig. 4, the localization accuracy of the mechanism improves by 
42% when an initial threshold value of 10% is specified for the chord length. It is 
observed that the location error continues to improve gradually as the threshold value 
is increased further, and the scheme achieves an accuracy of approximately 1 meter 
when the threshold value is increased to 50% of the radio range. 
 
 
Fig. 4 Average location error vs. chord length threshold. 
 
5.2.3 Circular Cross Section Selection 
 
Fig. 5 shows the simulation results obtained using the default settings for the 
relationship between the location error and the included angle for all the sensor nodes. 
Significant location errors occur when the included angles are close to zero degrees. 
In other words, it is apparent that the selection of the circular cross section has a 
critical effect on the localization performance. In the simulations, the threshold for the 
included angle between the normal vectors of the two cross sections was specified as 
0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 degrees, respectively. Note that an included angle of 0 degrees is 
equivalent to imposing no limitation on the selection of the cross sections. Fig. 6 
reveals that the localization accuracy improves as the threshold for the included angle 
is increased. Specifically, the location error reduces from an initial value of 2 meters 
(with no included angle constraint) to a final value of 1 meter for an included angle of 
10 degrees. 
 
 8
three localization mechanisms. Due to their estimation approaches, the effect of 
irregular radio propagation patterns on the Centroid and Constraint schemes is limited 
and hence the average location error in these two-mechanisms remains stable as the 
value of the DOI is increased. Radio irregularities slightly affect the accuracy of the 
beacon points in the mechanism. In Fig. 7, the location error increases by 0.73 meters 
(i.e. from 1.01 meters to 1.74 meters) as the value of the DOI is increased from 0 to 
0.1 (assuming no GPS errors). Although the location error of our scheme increases, its 
overall location performance is nevertheless better than that of the Centroid and 
Constraint mechanisms.  
 
 
Fig. 7 Location error vs. DOI and GPS errors. 
 
5.2.5 GPS Errors 
 
In practical environments, all GPS receivers are subject to a certain degree of 
positional error. The simulations applied GPS errors based on a normal distribution. 
The mean GPS errors were specified as 0.15, 0.3, and 0.45 meters, respectively, with 
a standard deviation of 0.05 meters. Fig. 7 demonstrates that the localization 
mechanism provides a higher accuracy than the other two range-free schemes when 
GPS errors are taken into consideration. However, since our localization mechanism 
cannot always obtain accurate beacon points due to the GPS errors, its localization 
accuracy is reduced slightly. Conversely, since the Centroid mechanism applies the 
centroid formula to estimate the sensor node position, its location error is virtually 
independent of the GPS errors and hence the average location error remains stable at 
approximately 4.69 meters. However, in the Constraint scheme, the location error 
increases slightly. Fig. 7 also shows the combined effect of the DOI and the GPS 
 10
參考文獻 
 
[1] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam, and E. Cayirci, “A Survey on 
Sensor Networks,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 40, no. 8, pp. 102–114, 
Aug. 2002. 
[2] B. HofmannWellenhof, H. Lichtenegger, and J. Collins, Global Positioning 
System: Theory and Practice. SpringerVerlag, 1997. 
[3] J. Liu, P. Cheung, L. Guibas, and F. Zhao, “A Dual-Space Approach to Tracking 
and Sensor Management in Wireless Sensor Networks,” in Proceedings of ACM 
International Workshop on Wireless Sensor Networks and Applications (WSNA), 
Sept. 2002, pp. 131–139. 
[4] L. Zhang, X. Zhou, and Q. Cheng, “Landscape3D: A Robust Localization Scheme 
for Sensor Networks over Complex 3D Terrains,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
International Conference on Local Computer Networks (LCN), Nov. 2006, pp. 
239–246. 
[5] J. Liang, J. Shao, Y. Xu, J. Tan, B. T. Davis, and P. L. Bergstrom, “Sensor 
Network Localization in Constrained 3D Spaces,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation (ICMA), June 2006, pp. 
49–54. 
[6] M. Kushwaha, K. Molnar, J. Sallai, P. Volgyesi, M. Maroti, and A. Ledeczi, 
“Sensor Node Localization Using Mobile Acoustic Beacons,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
International Conference on Mobile Ad-Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), Nov. 
2005. 
[7] J. Broch, D. A. Maltz, D. B. Johnson, Y.C. Hu, and J. G. Jetcheva, “A 
Performance Comparison of Multi-Hop Wireless Ad Hoc Network Routing 
Protocols,” in Proceedings of ACM International Conference on Mobile Computing 
and Networking (MOBICOM), Oct. 1998, pp. 85–97. 
[8] N. Bulusu, J. Heidemann, and D. Estrin, “GPS-less Low-Cost Outdoor 
Localization for Very Small Devices,” IEEE Personal Communications, vol. 7, no. 5, 
pp. 28–34, Oct. 2000. 
[9] A. Galstyan, B. Krishnamachari, K. Lerman, and S. Patterm, “Distributed Online 
Localization in Sensor Networks Using A Mobile Target,” in Proceedings of 
International Symposium on Information Processing in Sensor Networks (IPSN), Apr. 
2004, pp. 61–70. 
 12
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-251 -002 - 
計畫名稱 
(中文)三維無線感測網路中位置定位系統設計及實作(II) 
(英文)Design and Implementation for Localization in Three-dimensional 
Wireless Sensor Networks(II) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
歐家和 
國立屏東商業技術學院 資訊工程系 助理教授 
會議時間地點 
(中文)2009 年 6 月 22 ~ 26 日, 義大利 羅馬 
(英文)June 22-26, 2009, Roman, Italy 
會議名稱 
(中文)第六屆 IEEE 感測器、網狀與隨意通訊與網路國際會議 
(英文)The 6th Annual IEEE Communications Society Conference on Sensor, 
Mesh and Ad Hoc Communications and Networks (SECON 2009) 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本次赴義大利首都羅馬參加「第六屆 IEEE 感測器、網狀與隨意通訊與網路國際會議」 
(The 6th Annual IEEE Communications Society Conference on Sensor, Mesh and Ad Hoc 
Communications and Networks – SECON 2009)，承蒙國科會補助經費。經過超過 10 小時的長
途飛行，終於在研討會舉辦前抵達會場完成報到與註冊手續，並閱讀研討會之議程手冊以及
研討會場地配置，以了解研討會每天之各項活動的地點與時間。 
這個會議舉辦自 6 月 22 日到 6 月 26 日，共五天。會議討論的議題包括感測器、網狀與
隨意通訊與網路中的八個主題：（1）模型、演算法與效能分析（Modeling, Algorithms, and 
Performance Evaluation），（2）測量與實驗研究（Measurements and Experimental Research），（3）
硬體/軟體平台與中介軟體（Hardware and Software Platforms, Middleware），（4）新架購（New 
Architectures），（5）媒體存取控制、網路、傳輸、應用層協定與跨層設計（MAC, Network, 
Transport, Application Protocols and Cross-Layer Design），（6）網路編碼、多天線、合作通訊與
其他新穎技術（Network Coding, MIMO, Cooperative Communications and Other Novel 
Techniques），（7）感知天線、行動與車載網路、水下網路、城市感測與其他新興領域（Cognitive 
Radios, Mobile and Vehicular Networks, Underwater Networks, Urban Sensing, and other 
Emerging Areas），（8）安全、存活與容錯（Security, Survivability and Fault Tolerance）。 
