智慧型家庭的開發-子計畫三：智慧型家庭中智慧型信息整合系統(3/3) 
Intelligent Information-Integrated Systems for Smart Home(3/3) 
 計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-150-070-MY3 
 執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日 至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
   主持人：鄭錦聰  職稱：教授 
    共同主持人：莊鎮嘉  職稱：教授 
 參與人員：廖柄倫、劉岳翔、莊麒達、張勝傑、王峻源 
 電子信箱：tsong@nfu.edu.tw 
 執行機構：國立虎尾科技大學 資訊工程系 
(第三年結案報告) 
1. Abstract 
Recently, smart home technology is a hot topic for 
study. Smart home technology is the integration of 
technologies and services, applied to homes, flats, 
apartments, houses and small buildings with the purpose 
of automating them and obtaining and increase safety & 
security, comfort, communication, and technical 
management. That is, a house or working environment, 
which includes the technology to allow for devices and 
systems to be controlled automatically, may be termed a 
Smart Home. In this project, intelligent 
information-integrated systems for the smart home are 
proposed. The systems are the integration of PDA, USB, 
TCP/IP, Bluetooth, and Zigbee technologies. Besides, 
hot attach & detach and plug-and-play is proposed for 
the intelligent information-integrated systems. We also 
propose to use smart client and object-oriented 
technology for the user interface. In the third year, a web 
query for the wireless intelligent information-integrated 
systems is proposed. We integrate the results of previous 
two years to PDA or smart phone and use in web 
environment. That is, the proposed systems combine 
wireless web service with wireless network that can 
apply to mobile smart campus, mobile smart home, 
mobile smart office and mobile business. 
Keywords: Smart Home, Information Integrated 
Systems, UML, Web Service, Hot Attach & Detach and 
Plug-and-Play, Wireless Smart Home 
2. Background and purpose 
The concept of digital life these days are originated 
from Bill Gate's book: "The Road Ahead". With digital 
nervous system and fiber to the home equipments, this 
dream is possible. Common implementations are 
achieved by using high bandwidth, fiber network to do 
tele-healthcare, tele-medicine, and tele-shopping, 
tele-meeting, tele-learning, tele-security. For instance, 
the company Samsung Electronics in the Korea shows 
digital residences: Homevita, which have the owner cook 
remotely, see the guest from the indoor screen, health 
care system can measure automatically blood pressure 
and oxygen capacity for someone who is in the bathroom 
and send this information to a doctor. Radio Frequency 
Identification shopping system will calculate the total 
price of products and email it to user's cell phone. 
Therefore, there are hidden screens, sensors and cameras 
in our daily life, but what do people want from these 
devices? What would people be with these devices? 
Using these technologies properly and it can only be 
services for human; otherwise it will interfere with 
people's value and violate the reason of social 
development. Take tele-healthcare for example, is a 
patient be cared or be watched? Does a patient get a 
response from a nurse when the emotions, likes and 
dislikes of a patient are knew by a nurse? People want 
more forever. Although the computer, network and 
communication technology gives convenience and 
efficiency, people will keep setting their own goals and 
do more work for a better life. Sometimes, the 
emergence of new technology doesn't have people feel 
more carefree, but rely on it. Consequentially, people 
could be too tired and very busy and this makes life more 
complicated and more inconvenience. [1-5] 
With computer technologies come into the home 
market, the Digital Home Working Group (rename to 
Digital Living Network Alliance) led by INTEL and 
MICROSOFT boosts the concept of "Digital Home" that 
is based on wireless and Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) 
technologies. The group introduced a number of 
hardware products for digital home appliances to provide 
a good transmission medium and entertainment platform. 
However, in view of "Smart Home", although the "digital 
home" provides a good infrastructure for digital 
entertainment, the functionality could only be seen as 
more convenient tools. Not only because of the "Digital 
Home" is limited to digital media entertainment, but also 
because it can't response to the demands of users and 
provide services automatically. [6-8] 
The so-called "Smart Home" is the intelligent 
application, which is based on intelligent infrastructure, 
for the home environment. The services focus on the 
demands of daily life, such as foods, clothes, living, and 
transportation. In general, there are five types for this 
infrastructure: 
z Advanced Sensors (For system to collection 
information and to sense user's status) 
z Intelligent Human Interface (Provide the bridge 
between users and the system) 
z Integrated Control System (Construct automatic 
environment control of a house) 
z Information Center (A location for transferring 
messages and integrating different application) 
z Inference Mechanism (Based on the information 
and knowledge from the system, it decides the way to 
communicate with users) 
The variety of services in "Smart Home" use 
fundamental infrastructures as tools, detecting changes in 
the environment and identifying the user's behavior, to 
inference the demand of users and to perform properly 
Pico-net) is formed. A bigger scatter net can be building 
by repeating this step. As a result, the proposed scatter 
net (Figure 4) is completed. Because MSI Starkey 
Bluetooth usb dongle is used as the adapter, it is 
necessary to check this adapter connection ability and 
performance. After several simulations, we found a 
problem: "a slave only connects to a master (Figure 5) if 
using the Bluetooth Personal Area Network profile." 
Therefore, it will create extended pico-net (Figure 6) by 
using Bluetooth PAN Profile. However, there is another 
profile that can solve this problem. By using serial port 
profile, a scatter net (Figure 7) can be created more 
easily. 
 
Figure 3: Bluetooth Piconet. 
 
Figure 4: Bluetooth Scatter net. 
 
Figure 5: Bluetooth PAN limit. 
 
Figure 6: extended piconet. 
 
 
Figure 7: A scatter net by using serial port profile. 
Besides the Bluetooth network, Ethernet is 
included for more system functions. Four scenarios are 
designed for simulations. There are Number and Count 
System, Music Bank system, Count Down system and 
Asking system. 
Scenario 1: Number and Count System 
A user can pick up a number from PC or PDA and 
the number will display on the CPLD seven-segment 
indicator. 
Scenario 2: Music Bank system 
Press one of the 4 * 4 button matrix from CPLD 
and the system will show selected music in specific color. 
The system provides 8 different songs for users. 
Scenario 3: Count Down system 
It is a bit like a traffic light. CPLD seven-segment 
indicator displays the selected number from PDA and 
can be paused and counted down. The dot matrix shows 
a running green man when counting down. On the other 
hand, the dot matrix shows static red man when pausing. 
Scenario 4: Asking system 
It sends message to each CPLD device and the 
result will be shown on PDA with different colors.  
System interface are Figure 8 and 9. Figure 10 is 
the scatter net topology diagram. 
 
Figure 8: System interface for Master. 
 
Figure 9: System interface for Slave 
 
Figure 10: Scatter net topology. 
3.2 Zigbee 
To simulate scenarios that differs from Bluetooth 
simulations. The circuit boards for Zigbee modules are 
designed. Figure 11 shows the circuit design graph and 
 
Figure 16: C# program interface. 
C# Program interface describe in Figure 16, where 
1. It displays messages from Pixie module. 
2. Pixie commands input area. 
3. Manage the connection with pixie module. 
4. For controlling fan, the fan zigbee address is on the 
left corner.  
5. Light control: turn the light on or off. 
6. Turn photosensitive sensor on or off. The light status 
is on the right. 
7. Open or close the door and the door status is on the 
upper right. 
8. Manage the zigbee connection and perform. 
 
Adding a router to enhance the distance 
To extend the connection distance, we use routers 
to connect with a coordinator and End-devices. In 
addition, a scenario (Figure 17) is used to simulate 
this idea.  
 
Figure 17: Scenario in the 5th Floor of Academic 
Building 3 of National Formosa University. 
 There is also a software application for coordinator. 
The coordinator and router messages are shown on figure 
18 and 19. 
 
Figure 18: Coordinator Messages for the proposed 
software. 
 
Figure 19: Router Messages for the proposed software. 
Command Message Description: 
Erase Network: +MJNR=01. After erasing, a new 
network will start. 
 
Allow other device to join this network: +MPJR=FF 
 
Disallow other device to join this network: +MPJR=00 
 
Send data to the end device: +MDAR (Table 4) 
Table 2: MDAR command. 
Format +MDAR={variable 
length} 
Flags 1 byte Bit 0: IsBroadcast
Bit 1: 
IsAcknowledge 
Bit 3: IsRetry 
Destination 2 bytes Short Address or 
Functional cluster
DataPayloadLen 1 byte Length of Data 
payload 
DataPayload DataPayload
Len 
Data payload 
Figure 20 is the modified command message for this 
project End-devices. 
 
Figure 20: End-Devices command example. 
Pins mapping design 
 Table 3 is our design for pins mapping. EP1 to EP6 
are used for End-Device and Router. But EP7 and EP8 
are only for Router. 
Table 3: pins mapping 
PIN in Hex 
EP1 15 
EP2 14 
EP3 16 
EP4 00 
EP5 01 
EP6 02 
EP7 40 
EP8 41 
Zigbee Topology Design 
 To test zigbee network, three topologies are 
building for simulations. They are ring, bus and tree 
topology (Figure 21~23). 
系統架構及完成內容如下： 
 
Intelligent Information-Integrated Systems 
 
Table 1 shows finished functions in the proposed systems 
Devices Description 
USB Flash Read and write data automatically for Smart Home 
Information-Integrated Systems. 
Zigbee Control LED on the evaluation board from system and schedule 
setting for Smart Home Information-Integrated Systems. 
Bluetooth 1.LinkMatik: Can search the nearby bluetooth devices and 
create a connection with one of them. Toothpick: Control the 
LED light and the light's brightness. Schedule setting for Smart 
Home Information-Integrated Systems. 
2.Scatter net Implement for Smart Home Information-Integrated 
Systems. 
Network Using the client control system, a user can control zigbee or 
bluetooth device from a remote host for Smart Home 
Information-Integrated Systems. 
PDA Users can control the Bluetooth evaluation board via the 
Bluetooth connection for Smart Home Information-Integrated 
Systems. 
ICC2430ZDK Finished the detection of the location of a Ref node. 
Software for Smart Home 
Information-Integrated 
Systems 
1.Finish with smart client-based C#. 
2.UML for the software 
 
 
整體而言本三年期計畫在智慧型計算方法及smart systems上發表10篇的相關論文、參加三次的國際會議並發
表論文及發表16篇之國內外研討會論文。另在實作開發出可利用之產業有智慧型手機程式開發、無線個人區域
網路整合產業、智慧型機器人產業、PDA 手機控制產業與網路控制產業。可開發之產品如下 
a. 智慧型信息整合系統(以伺服器為基礎)。 
b. 智慧型信息整合系統(以PDA 手機為基礎)。 
c. 藍芽 PDA 手機控制系統。 
d. 藍芽 CPLD 發展系統。 
e. ZigBee CPLD 發展系統。 
f. IEEE 802.12 無線網路與IEEE 802.15 無線個人區域網路(WPAN)整合系統。 
g. USB 之熱插拔自動無線伺服智慧型設定系統。 
also to support control information and information display of state for the other projects. Besides, 
Message Format is also defined. UML are proposed for modeling. Finally, the proposed UML methods 
will be implemented via the C# software and applies to the modeling problem. In the third year, a web 
query for the wireless intelligent information-integrated systems is proposed. We integrate the results 
of previous two years to PDA or smart phone and use in web environment. That is, the proposed 
systems combine wireless web service with wireless network that can apply to mobile smart campus, 
mobile smart home, mobile smart office and mobile business. 
Keywords：Smart Home，Information Integrated Systems，UML，Web Service，Hot Attach & 
Detach and Plug-and-Play，Wireless Smart Home，Call Procedure。 
二、緣由與目的 
目前市面上可見的數位生活構想，大致源於十年前微軟公司創辦人比爾蓋茲在《擁抱未來》
書中所勾勒的願景。如今結合「數位神經」、「光纖到家」等配備，這夢想落實到大眾生活不再
是難事，而普遍的做法，不外是以大頻寬，光纖網路傳輸進行遠距照護、遠距醫療、遠距購物、
遠距會議、遠距學習、遠距保全等等。例如韓國三星電子所展示的數位住宅，可以使人在外頭遙
控煮飯，透過室內螢幕可以看到大門外的來客，浴室內的健康系統可趁人如廁時順便測量血壓、
氧氣量，並把資訊傳給醫生，無線射頻辨識的購物系統則會計算所購商品，並把帳單傳到手機。
於是，生活裡到處被嵌入了隱藏式螢幕、感應器和攝影機……但是，這些設備要給人們什麼？把
人們變成什麼呢？這些技術運用得當，可以只是服務人類的工具，若發展和運用不當，則將干擾
到人的存在價值，侵犯到社會發展的理性。就以遠距離照護系統為例，當事者的感覺究竟是「被
照護」還是「被監視」呢，受照護者的情緒和好惡能夠傳達給照護者，並得到回應嗎？何況人的
欲望是無窮的，雖然電腦、網路、通訊技術給人方便和效率，但人們會不斷給自己目標，不斷增
添任務，要更多，還要更好，有時新科技的出現，並沒有讓人更輕鬆，執迷其中，反而變得更累
更忙，最終是使生活變得複雜與不適[1-5] 。 
隨著電腦科技進入家庭市場，以INTEL及MICROSOFT為首的眾家國際大廠成立「數位家庭」
聯盟（現已更名DLNA），積極推動以無線網路技術及UPnP為核心技術的「數位家庭」概念，推
出了許多硬體產品為家中的數位媒體資源提供了良好的傳輸媒介及娛樂平台。然而從「智慧家庭」
的角度來看，儘管「數位家庭」在數位娛樂方面提供了良好的基礎建設，其所提供的功能卻只能
被視為在操作數位媒體上較為方便的工具。不僅因為「數位家庭」目前的發揮空間僅限於數位媒
體娛樂，也因為它還無法因應使用者的需求而自動提供服務[6-8]。 
所謂的「智慧家庭」，是將智慧型空間運用於家庭的環境中，以智慧型空間的基礎建設為平
台，而平台上的應用服務則著重於家庭生活在食衣住行育樂各方面的需求。一般而言，智慧型空
間的基礎建設可以分為五類：先進感測（供系統收集環境中的資訊及感測使用者的狀態）、智慧
型人機介面（提供使用者與系統之間的溝通互動）、整合控制（建構在家庭自動化上的環境管控）、
資訊平台（提供一個平台供各類基礎建設交換訊息並整合各類資訊應用）、推論機制（根據系統
獲得的資訊及系統內建的知識庫從而判斷系統應該如何與使用者互動）。「智慧家庭」中的各類應
用服務會運用到這些基礎建設做為工具，偵測環境中的變化，辨識使用者的行為，推論使用者的
需求，並在適當的時間地點以適當的方式控制環境做出反應，為使用者提供更為舒適美好的生
活。在未來的研究發展方面，一方面會針對智慧型空間的基礎建設做各方面的研究改進及創新，
另一方面則必須在智慧型空間的基礎上針對家庭環境開發各式各樣真正符合使用者需求的服
務，兩相結合之下，智慧家庭才會真正地深入到每個人的生活之中[9-13]。 
智慧型家庭以及由此洐伸的新居家風格(life style)所帶來的舒適、便利概念深入普羅大眾，
加上其相關產值約佔房舍價格的5%~10%，預期由此而帶動的產值潛力雄厚。除了其屬於大眾的
需求，因此需求量非常大，及其預期投資金額的合理性外，更由於台灣早期的許多建築，慢慢的
在未來5~20 年間將面臨改建，因此如何建立下一世紀家庭的研究，在現在變得非常重要。雖然
在世界各國有相當多的學術團隊已經投入此一領域的研究，如 Carnegie Mellon University(CMU)
的the Home 2020 Studio X、Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)的House_n、Georgia Institute 
of Technology(GIT) 的Aware Home Research Initiative (AHRI)、U. of Colorado(UC)的Mozer’s 
Adaptive House、UC Irvine 的National Outlook for Automation in the Home(NOAH)等，這些研究
是這幾年在學術界有名的研究團隊。另外，智慧家庭慨念也吸引業界研究團隊加入此一研究，如 
Internet Home (Cisco)、comHome (KTH)、EasyLiving (Microsoft)、At Home (Orange)、Home of the 
near Future, Smart Connections (Philips)、Smart Home (Siemens)、Intel Architecture Labs (Intel)等。
在這些智慧家庭中，常使用網路技術，如 Powerline (X10、EIB Powerline…等)、Busline (EIB、
Cebus、Lonwork、Batibus EHS…等)與 Radio Frequency (Bluetooth、Zigbee、RFID…等)，去建構
之 UML 軟硬體訊息交換機制模型的建立如 A 所示，其它子系統之成果如 B~E 所示： 
A. Hardware and Software Deployment Diagram for the proposed systems 
Deployment diagram can be used for hardware which utilizes resources or the execution 
environment of software. It expresses hardware/software system physical deploy or software package 
configuration. A software system always provides many services. And the services are the default 
system services for the components' deployment. In this situation, we can build interfaces for the 
execution environment. That is, the deployment diagrams for the proposed systems are shown in 
Figures 3 and 4. Figure 3 shows the UML software deployment, and Figure 4 shows UML Hardware 
Deployment. 
 
 
Figure 3: Software Deployment. 
 
Figure 4: Hardware Deployment. 
圖五和圖六分別為 Zigbee 單晶片開發系統的軟體與硬體之佈署圖； 
 
Figure 5: Zigbee 定位系統軟體佈署圖。 
 
z Jumper switches for board configuration. 
z RS232 serial port and TTL to RS232 convert. 
z Toothpick ICD2 programming socket. 
z Built-in 24C256 I2C memory chip. 
z All the pushbuttons, LEDs, presets and switches to run the tutorials in the products data sheets. 
 
Figure 8: LinkMatik Module. 
LinkMatik 2.0 (Figure 8) is a serial / PCM audio to Bluetooth data link. A host controller can 
control it by using simple commands. Without a host controller, LinkMatik 2.0 can also operate for 
point-to-point serial connections. There are two operation modes: Auto-Slave and Auto-Master, 
allowing LinkMatik 2.0 to operate a slave, master or wedded pair. The module can be connected to 
many standard Bluetooth devices, e.g. PDA's, Laptop computers, Mobile phones etc. PCM (Pulse Code 
Modulation) audio connections provide an audio interface when used with a suitable audio codec. 
LinkMatik Module Features: 
z Auto-Slave and Auto-Master configurations for no-host control. 
z Auto connection. 
z Form a piconet with up to 4 slaves. 
z PCM audio profile. 
z Bluetooth 2.0 certified  
z FCC / CE certified with integral antenna 
z End-to-end latency 8-15 ms  
z Low power: ~25mA transmitting, 370μA sleep  
z Authentication and encryption 
z Device discovery  
z Sniff, park and hold low power modes  
z Hardware flow control or no flow control  
z Bluetooth error correction layer  
z Class I Bluetooth radio, 100m range  
z 3.3-5V supply (DIL), or 3.3V supply (SO) 
z Wide range of baud rates up to 230k Baud (serial port only, not over-the-air) 
In order to use LinkMatik, the following setting is setted. 
Table 1: Jumper setting for LinkMatik. 
Pins name Propose 
A8 – A9 RS232 CTS to RTS pin 
A10– B10 RS232 CTS to RTS pin 
B2 – B3 RS232 RTS to CTS pin 
B5 – B6 RS232 RxD to TxD pin 
B8 – B9 RS232 RTS to CTS pin 
E7 – E8 SW6 to MSM input 
E4 – E5 RS232 TxD to RxD pin 
E9 – F9 RS232 RxD to TxD pin 
 
Figure 9: Toothpick Module. 
 
Figure 11: LinkMatik System: Status View. 
 
Figure 12: LinkMatik System: Discovery Bluetooth Devices. 
 
 圖十二為Toothpick子系統的主畫面，畫面上的按鈕可以控制不同的LED燈，CPP1、CPP2、
CPP3可以控制LED燈的亮度，並可以設定LED要在何時亮多久時間。另PC上的控制軟體畫面為
圖十三所示，PDA上的控制軟體畫面為圖十四所示。 
 
Figure 13: Toothpick Subsystem on PC. 
 Figure 15: Zigbee Evaluation Board. 
The Pixie Evaluation Kit (Figure 15) is designed for research and development with FlexiPanel 
Ltd’s Pixie ZigBee modules. It is designed to be compatible with FlexiPanel’s firmware solutions, 
including: Switcher, Packet sniffing, DARC data acquisition & remote control, MailBox Gateway, 
StarLite and StarLite USB. 
The board features: 
z 4 switch inputs   
z 4 pushbutton inputs  
z 8 LED outputs  
z 1 trimmer input  
z RS232 serial port and TTL to RS232 converter  
z ICD2 programming socket  
z Configuration tool socket   
z Power regulator and battery clips.  
z Solder pads for custom development 
z Two Modules: Pixie with preload coordinator and PixieLite with preload Sleepy end device. 
z Switcher RS232 serial configure socket RJ11 Firmware Programming socket. 
 
Figure 16: Pixie Module. 
Pixie (Figure 16) integrates IEEE 802.15.4 2.4 GHz PHY/MAC layers with Microchip 
Technology's NWK/APL/ZDO layers, providing a complete ZigBee solution for OEMs. It also 
provides a path for extremely quick migration from Microchip's PICDEM Z ZigBee development 
environment to market-ready product. Pixie is suitable for router and coordinator nodes and is capable 
of full function device (FFD) operation. 
 
Pixie module features: 
z Free space range approx 120m 
z FCC / CE / IC compliant 
z MAC address allocation 
z Signature G antenna, low “hand effect” design 
z Output power 1mW / 0dBm 
z Consumes less than 25mA when active, 2μA in sleep mode 
z 15 general I/O lines, featuring 6-channel 10-bit A/D, serial UART, 4 interrupts, counter input 
z Master SPI 
z Surface mount and DIL through-hole versions 
z Wide temperature range -40ºC to +85ºC 
z 2.1V - 3.6V supply, ideal for Li rechargeables 
802.11a 54Mbps (25Mbps) 30m 5 GHz 
802.11b 11Mbps (5Mbps) 40-50m 2.4 GHz 
802.11g 54Mbps (25Mbps) 40-50m 2.4 GHz 
802.11n 540Mbps (200Mbps) 50m 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz 
 
WiFi運作原理： 
Wi-Fi 的設置至少需要一個AP和一個（以上）的client。AP每100ms將SSID（Service Set 
Identifier）經由beacons（信號台）封包廣播一次，beacons封包的傳輸速率是1 Mbit/s，並且長度
相當的短，所以這個廣播動作對網路效能的影響不大。因為Wi-Fi規定的最低傳輸速率是1 
Mbit/s ，所以確保所有的Wi-Fi client端都能收到這個SSID廣播封包，client 可以藉此決定是否要
和這一個SSID的AP連線。使用者可以設定要連線到哪一個SSID。Wi-Fi系統總是對用戶端開放其
連接標準，並支援漫遊，這就是 Wi-Fi的好處。 
 
Mobile Device and Wireless Network子系統成果： 
 圖十九呈現了主機端系統伺服器的連線狀態。圖二十、圖二十一分別為PDA、PC及NB上的
系統畫面。 
 
Figure 19: Server on PC. 
 
 
Figure 20: Subsystem on PDA. 
 
 
Figure 21: Sybsystem on PC. 
 
E: Zigbee Location System  
z GPIO：由無線傳輸，從EB傳至多個router、EB，藉由GPIO可對週邊設備做控制(ex：冷氣、
電燈、電鍋) 
z 可由DB傳回資料(ex：溫度感測、保全) 
z 介面化：燒錄完成後，不再須經由電腦，即可由SmartRF®04EB上LCD做控制及顯示想要
的資料。 
z 修復：無線接收範圍內，存在一個節點以上，資料的傳輸就不會中斷。 
Zigbee 單晶片Location 子系統成果： 
 Zigbee 單晶片Location系統經由PC上的系統畫面，本系統可以知道Ref節點的位置。圖二
十五至圖二十七顯示軟體系統的操作及結果。 
 
Figure 25: 設定參考點座標。 
 
Figure 26: 設定移動點設定。 
 
 
四、結論 
為了要顯示系統內各項設備之訊息，我們先利用簡單信息協定來傳達智慧型信息整合系統
之信息，並以Smart Client開發智慧型信息整合系統之圖形使用者介面，並以物件導向軟體開發，
藉由軟體的開發與測試去驗證所發展出來的智慧型信息整合系統之正確性與適用性。在第一年計
畫中，主要以智慧型信息整合系統的建置－針對智慧家庭常使用無線/有線通信介面 (USB、
TCP/IP、Bluetooth、Zigbee、PDA、Notebook、Wireless Network、Zigbee 單晶片開發系統)做
一整合與分析其特性。在整合這些介面，我們需要類似 USB 之熱插拔 (Hot Attach & Detach) 與
即插即用(Plug-and-Play) 觀念，並將他引入到我們所提出智慧型信息整合系統。也就是說，當任
何智慧家庭設備/裝備進入智慧型信息整合系統，在這智慧型信息整合系統要顯示其裝置資訊。
另智慧型信息整合系統的各設備之呼叫程序 (Call Process)與訊息交換機制及UML 軟硬體訊息
交換機制模型的建立已完成。 
目前工作事項：子計劃三的第二年要針對智慧家庭之中所常使用的無線線通信介面做一整
合與應用系統，並增加與行動設備的通訊，並已測試完成。目前所擁有的週邊設備為Pixie一組、
Pixie Lite一組、Zigbee實驗板二套、LinkMatik一組、Toothpick二組、Bluetooth實驗板二套、
ICC2430ZDK一套、PDA三支。智慧型信息整合系統中將以USB隨身碟來自動讀寫系統設定檔，
目前自動讀寫USB隨身碟部分已完成，待系統設定檔格式定義好之後，即可完成此子系統。Zigbee
和Bluetooth兩個獨立子系統已穩定，也開始著手整合此兩子系統，未來計畫將系統移植到網頁
上，讓使用者可以不用安裝新的軟體，直接以Browser做遠端控制，另在嵌入式系統的測試亦正
在測試中。 
五、參考文獻 
[1] R. Babbitt, “Information Privacy Management in Smart Home Environments: Modeling, 
Verification, and Implementation,” COMPSAC '06. 30th Annual International Computer Software 
and Applications Conference, Vol. 2, pp. 344-346, 2006. 
[2] Dimitar Valtchev and Ivailo Frankov, “Service Gateway Architecture for a Smart Home,” IEEE 
Communication Magazine, Vol. 40, pp. 126-132, 2002. 
[3] L. Borodulkin, H. Ruser, H-R. Trankler, “3D Virtual 〝Smart Home〞User Interface,” VIMS2002 
International Symposium on Virtual and Intelligent Measurement Systems, pp. 111-115, 2002. 
[4] John R. Durrett, Lisa J. and John W, “A Hybrid Analysis and Architectural Design Method for 
Development OF Smart Home Components,” IEEE Wireless Communications, Vol. 9, pp. 85-91, 
2002. 
[5] Yu-Ju Lin, Haniph A. Latchman, and Minkyu Lee, “A Power Line Communication Network 
Infrastructure for the Smart Home,” IEEE Wireless Communications, Vol. 9, pp. 104-111, 2002. 
[6] K. Balasubramanian and A. Cellatoglu, “Improvements in home automation strategies for designing 
apparatus for efficient smart home,”  IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, Volume 
54,  Issue 4,  pp. 1681-1687, 2008. 
[7] R. Kango, P R Moore and J Pu, “Networked Smart Home Appliances-Enabling Real Ubiquitous 
Culture,” IEEE 5th International Workshop on Networked Appliances, pp. 76-80, 2002. 
[8] L. Zhang; H. Leung and K. Chan, “Information fusion based smart home control system and its 
application,” IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, Volume 54,  Issue 3,  pp. 1157-1165, 
2008. 
[9] G. D. Abowd, “Classroom 2000: An Experiment with the instrumentation of a Living Educational 
Environment,” IBM Systems Journal, Vol. 38, No. 4, pp. 508-530, 1999. 
[10] G. D. Abowd, E. D. Mynatt, “Charting Past, Present, and Future Research in Ubiquitous 
Computing,” ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 29-58, 2000. 
[11]A. M. Vainio, M. Valtonen and J. Vanhala, “Proactive Fuzzy Control and Adaptation Methods for 
Smart Homes,” IEEE Intelligent Systems, Volume 23, Issue 2,  pp. 42-49, 2008. 
[12]M. R. Cabrer, R. P, D. Redondo, A. F. Vilas, J. J. P. Arias and J. G. Duque, “Controlling the smart 
home from TV,” IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, Volume 52,  Issue 2,  pp. 421-429, 
2006. 
[13] A. Roy, S. K. Das and K. Basu, “A Predictive Framework for Location-Aware Resource 
Management in Smart Homes” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Volume 6,  Issue 
11,  pp. 1270- 1283, 2007. 
[14] V. Bellotti, W. K. Edwards, “Intelligibility and Accountability: Human Considerations in Context 
Aware Systems,” Journal of Human Computer Interaction, vol. 16, pp. 193-212, 2001. 
[15] Georgia Institute of Technology, Aware Home Research Initiative, available at 
智慧型家庭的開發-子計畫三：智慧型家庭中智慧型信息整合系統 Intelligent 
Information-Integrated Systems for Smart Home 
 計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-150-070-MY3 
 執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
   主持人：鄭錦聰  職稱：教授 
    共同主持人：莊鎮嘉  職稱：副教授 
 參與人員：廖柄倫、鄭盛倫、劉岳翔、羅仁佑 
 電子信箱：tsong@nfu.edu.tw 
 執行機構：國立虎尾科技大學 資訊工程系 
第一年 報告 
一、中文摘要 
近年來，許多研究都在探討一些有關「智慧型家庭」(Smart Home)的概念，其主要的目的是希望能夠
透過網路通訊設備或行動通訊設備與資訊家電產品作一個整合，使人類能進入一個智慧化的生活型態，
也就是希望未來人類能在所居住的環境，擁有自動化、安全性以及娛樂性等功能。智慧型家庭以及由此
洐伸的新居家風格(life style)所帶來的舒適、便利概念深入普羅大眾，加上其相關產值約佔房舍價格的
5%~10%，預期由此而帶動的產值潛力雄厚。除了其屬於大眾的需求，因此需求量非常大，及其預期投資
金額的合理性外，更由於台灣早期的許多建築，慢慢的在未來 5~20 年間將面臨改建，因此如何建立下一
世紀家庭的研究，在現在變得非常重要。 
本計畫為三年期整合型計畫之子計畫，在第一年計畫中，主要以智慧型信息整合系統的建置－針對
智慧家庭常使用無線/有線通信介面 (USB、TCP/IP、Bluetooth、Zigbee、IrDA、RF…等)做一整合與分析
其特性。在整合這些介面，我們需要類似 USB 之熱插拔 (Hot Attach & Detach) 與即插即用(Plug-and-Play) 
觀念，並將他引入到我們所提出智慧型信息整合系統。也就是說，當任何智慧家庭設備/裝備進入智慧型
信息整合系統，在這智慧型信息整合系統要顯示其裝置資訊，此外，我們亦提出以 smart client 去開發使
用者介面。第二年計畫中，如何讓智慧型信息整合系統的各設備之間訊息交換的課題變的非常重要。因
為每種通信介面都有本身所屬的協定與架構，如何將這些設備所要傳達的訊息做一交換是一件重要的工
作。透過建立類似公用電話系統之呼叫程序 (Call Process)來建立智慧型信息整合系統的各設備之間訊息
交換。此程序除了可以幫助各設備之間訊息交換，還可以提供給其他子計劃做設備控制信息傳送與接收
與設備狀態顯示信息。除了呼叫程序 (Call Process) 之外，如何建立系統與各設備之間訊息交換所需的訊
息格式 (Message Format) 的課題也是相當重要的一環，另外，我們將採用 UML 和 Hybrid Petri Net 進
行訊息交換機制模型的建立，同時亦將建立 Matlab 之模擬分析機制。第三年計畫中，將提出一個以提出
無線智慧型信息整合系統 Web 化查詢技術，同時針對前兩年的結果整合至 PDA 手機或智慧型手機與電腦
網頁化，整合無線 Web Service 技術至無線網路之應用如行動智慧型校園(Mobile Smart Campus)、行動智
慧型家庭(Mobile Smart Home)、行動智慧型辦公室(Mobile Smart Office)與行動商務(Mobile Business)。 
 
關鍵詞：智慧型家庭，信息整合系統，統一模型語言，網路服務，熱插拔與即插即用，行動智慧型家庭，
呼叫程序。 
英文摘要 
Recently, smart home technology is a hot topic for study. Smart home technology is the integration of 
technologies and services, applied to homes, flats, apartments, houses and small buildings with the purpose of 
automating them and obtaining and increase safety & security, comfort, communication, and technical 
management. That is, a house or working environment, which includes the technology to allow for devices and 
systems to be controlled automatically, may be termed a Smart Home. 
In this project, intelligent information-integrated systems for the smart home are proposed in the first year. 
The systems are the integration of USB, TCP/IP, Bluetooth, Zigbee, IrDA and RF technologies. Besides, hot 
attach & detach and plug-and-play is proposed for the intelligent information-integrated systems. We also 
propose to use smart client and object-oriented technology for the user interface. In the second year, the 
information communication is very important in all apparatus of intelligent information-integrated systems. We 
apply the concept of the call process to fulfill the information communication in all apparatus of intelligent 
information-integrated systems. This procedure is not only to fulfill the communication in all apparatus of 
intelligent information-integrated systems, but is also to support control information and information display of 
state for the other projects. Besides, Message Format is also defined. UML and Hybrid Petri Net are proposed for 
計劃目的第一年： 
然而，隨著家庭設備/裝備所嵌入的無線/有線通信介面越來越多，要整合這些介面也會越來越困難。
因此，在此整合型計劃之子計劃中，我們提出智慧型信息整合系統。為了完成建構智慧型信息整合系統，
此子計劃的第一年要針對智慧家庭常使用無線/有線通信介面 (USB、TCP/IP、Bluetooth、Zigbee、IrDA、
RF…等)做一整合。在整合這些介面，我們引入類似 USB 之熱插拔 (Hot Attach & Detach) 與即插即用
(Plug-and-Play) 觀念到我們所提出智慧型信息整合系統。當任何智慧家庭設備/裝備進入智慧型信息整合
系統，在這智慧型信息整合系統會顯示系統內各項設備之訊息。為了整合這些介面，在第一年子計劃中，
我們先對 USB、TCP/IP、Bluetooth、Zigbee、IrDA、RF 特性加以分析並整合至智慧型信息整合系統。
因為目前嵌入式系統、個人電腦、筆記型電腦或智慧型手機都沒有完全包含上述這些介面。因此，我們
會先以嵌入式系統/個人電腦再配合嵌入式系統/個人電腦所缺的介面 (Bluetooth、Zigbee、IrDA、RF) 做
一整合。為了要顯示系統內各項設備之訊息，我們先利用簡單信息協定來傳達智慧型信息整合系統之信
息，並以Smart Client開發智慧型信息整合系統之圖形使用者介面，並以物件導向軟體開發，藉由軟體的
開發與測試去驗證所發展出來的智慧型信息整合系統之正確性與適用性。 
三、研究方法及成果 
為了要顯示系統內各項設備之訊息，我們先利用簡單信息協定來傳達智慧型信息整合系統之信息，
並以 Smart Client 開發智慧型信息整合系統之圖形使用者介面，並以物件導向軟體開發，藉由軟體的開發
與測試去驗證所發展出來的智慧型信息整合系統之正確性與適用性。針對智慧家庭常使用無線線通信介
面在 Bluetooth、Zigbee、手機、USB 與筆記型電腦做一整合與分析系統。目前這些設備已採購完成，並
已開始進行測試。另 Smart Client 開發智慧型信息整合系統中可整合 USB 隨身碟之設定檔案，目前已開
始進行測試。 
 
圖一、智慧型信息整合系統。 
第一年針對無線線通信介面在 Bluetooth、Zigbee、USB 與筆記型電腦做一整合與分析系統。 
A. Bluetooth 技術 
Bluetooth(參考來源為 Bluetooth Core Specifications July 26, 2007) 
Bluetooth是一種短距離的無線傳輸技術，用來降低傳統覽線所帶來的不便，主要的特色有： 
z 穩固性（Robustness） 
z 低電力（Low Power） 
z 低成本（Low Cost） 
有關 Bluetooth 系統之核心有： 
z 射頻收發器（Radio frequency transceiver） 
z 基頻（Baseband） 
USB 隨身碟
之設定資料 
USB 
Device 
D. 第一年軟硬體之UML Deployment圖 
Deployment diagram 可用於具有執行資源的硬體設備，或是軟體的執行環境(execution environment)，
表達硬軟體系統的實體(Physical)部署(Deploy)或軟體套件配置。針隊軟體系統，其執行環境通常會提供許
多預設的系統服務供佈署其中的元件使用，在這種情況下，我們可以為執行環境設置介面(interface)。有
關本計畫第一年之 UML Software Deployment 如圖三，另 UML Hardware Deployment 如圖四。 
 
圖三、Software Deployment。 
 
圖四、Hardware Deployment。 
另外在硬體設備連線配置中之 Zigbee 硬體配置如圖五(a)，Bluetooth 硬體配置如圖五(b) 
  
(a)                                        (b) 
圖五、Hardware 連線配置。 
E. Software systems design with smart client 
微軟在視窗程式設計中整合了淺薄型的客戶端（Thin Client）和富有型的客戶端（Rich Client）的優
點，同時去除了兩者的缺點，稱為聰明型的客戶端（Smart Client），利用 ClickOnce 的技術，使得圖形
使用者介面也跟淺薄型客戶端一樣，容易佈署與維護。因此使用 Smart Client 來開發視窗環境時亦非常方
便搭配 Web Services 技術與 SOA 架構，亦就是說 Smart Client 所提供的功能來看，其可以視為一種全
新種類的視窗應用程式，它結合了網頁與視窗程式的特性，也就是說具備了「偶爾連接」的特性，使得
其可在網路連線時能即時存取遠端伺服器的資料，因此這和過去在開發純粹傳統型的網頁或視窗程式
時，本質上有很大的差異性。有關 Smart Client 軟體開發的新觀念，常指下述應用程式的開發： 
• 由網頁傳送資料。 
• 不需安裝或是提供自動安裝。 
• 使用者不需手動更新。 
圖七、智慧型信息整合系統之圖形使用者介面架構。 
 
程式結果在 Communicate with Wireless Modules via COM Port is shown in Fig. 8. 硬體結果如圖九所示： 
 
 
圖八、Communicate with Wireless Modules via COM Port。 
 
 
圖九、硬體結果。 
另在 USB Flash Access- Automated 系統如圖十所示： 
 
圖十、USB Flash Access- Automated 系統圖。 
 
五、結論 
為了要顯示系統內各項設備之訊息，我們先利用簡單信息協定來傳達智慧型信息整合系統之信息，
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             年    月    日 
報告人姓名 鄭錦聰 
 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立虎尾科技大學 
教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009 年 8 月 20-24 日在韓國濟
州島舉行 
本會核定
補助文號
 NSC 96-2221-E-150-070-MY3(第三
年出國費用) 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2009 IEEE 國際模糊系統研討會 
 (英文) 2009 IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 混合 SVM-GPs 學習在含有離異點之分子自動調控回授回路系統之
建模 
 (英文) Hybrid SVM-GPs Learning for Modeling of Molecular Autoregulator 
Feedback Loop System with Outliers 
  
  
Abstract-In this paper, the hybrid support vector machines 
(SVM) and Gaussian process (GPs) are proposed to deal with 
the molecular autoregulatory feedback loop systems with 
outliers. In the proposed approach, there are two-stage 
strategies. In the stage 1, the support vector machine regression 
(SVMR) approach is used to filter out the outliers in the 
training data set. Because of the large outliers in the training 
data set are almost removed, the large outlier’s effects are 
reduce, so the concepts of robust statistic theory are not used to 
reduce the outlier’s effects. The rest of the training data set 
after the stage 1 is directly used to training the Gaussian 
process for regression (GPR) in the stage 2. According to the 
simulation results, the performance of the proposed approach 
is superior to the least squares support vector machines for 
regression, and GPR when the outliers are existed in the 
molecular autoregulatory feedback loop systems. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In recently decade years, the development of artificial 
intelligence was very fast. And in this research field, include 
such as machine learning (ML), artificial neural network 
(ANN), support vector machines (SVM), and so forth. 
Machine learning, it uses machine to learning, obtained 
experience by sustain learning, and improve system 
performance as for using the experience. Main principle is 
make use of collecting samples to simulate, then obtained 
some other rules that we did not know yet, therefore we can 
use these rules to predict other data which we can not 
analysis. From beginning, machine learning want to reach 
human learning more approximately, but nowadays machine 
learning have already develop to computer science or other 
different fields. 
The SVM was proposed by V. Vapnik and his groups in 
1992. The SVM is a machine learning method that based on 
the statistical learning theory (SLT). That is, the concept of 
SLT is to infer the rules of the events from observe nature 
phenomenon or simulation results. The main capacity of 
SVM is statistical classifier and regression analysis. 
Statistical classifier use training data sets to learning, then 
according to predict data sets to simulate, and obtained the 
results by prediction. Regression analysis is a numerical 
analysis method. It expect to obtain the special relation 
between two data sets, but the most important thing is to find 
the function that can present the observation data. This 
function can express the relationship between variables, 
therefore we can establish math model to observe some 
variable to predict other variables. In SVM, support vector 
(SV) is an important concept, SV are feature subsets that are 
                                                           
1, 3Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, 
National Formosa University, Taiwan, R.O.C. (E-mail:tsong@nfu.edu.tw) 
2Department of Electrical Engineering, National Ilan University, Taiwan 
ROC. 
chosen from the training data sets, the SV can present the 
whole training data sets. In general, the number of SV is 
controlled by the values of epsilon in the SVM regression 
(SVMR). 
In general, the SVM is very suitable to approximate a high 
dimensionality space [1]. Besides, Johan Suykens improve 
SVM to least squares support vector machines (LS-SVM), 
the concepts is quadratic programming instead of linear 
function. The major difference between SVM and LS-SVM 
is that LS-SVM formulation replaced inequality by equality 
constraints. LS-SVM also investigated for classification [2] 
and regression [3]. In the real world, many applications may 
be effected by outliers, and it also affects the system 
performance. In statistics, the definition of outlier is an 
observation which deviates so far from other observations as 
to arouse suspicious that it was generated by a different 
mechanism. The outliers occur in many situations, such as 
erroneous measurement or generated by noise distribution 
functions [4]. The traditional SVM have robustness that can 
apply to improve problem. However, the LS-SVM 
regression (LS-SVMR) did not have this ability. In order to 
overcome the outlier’s effects, the robust version of 
LS-SVMR, so called weighted LS-SVMR is proposed [5]. 
Weighted LS-SVMR can solve the condition that training 
data sets with outliers. Besides, in [6], the robust support 
vector regression networks is proposed, it also propose a 
new robust algorithm to overcome the outlier‘s effects. 
Because of the outliers existed in the training data set, so the 
concepts of the robust statistic theory are used to reduce the 
outlier’s effects. There are some problems in those methods, 
that if the parameters are improperly selected, those 
approaches cannot provide a satisfactory performance. 
Gaussian process (GPs) is natural generalizations of 
multivariate Gaussian random variables to infinite index sets. 
It is also a machine learning method and has been applied in 
various research fields. Gaussian process is popular in 
machine learning research fields, because it flexible 
non-parametric nature and computational simplicity. And 
Gaussian process is deal with the supervise problem, the 
main capacity is classification and regression analysis [7]. 
The advantage of the probabilistic Gaussian process 
framework is it can choose hyperparameters and covariances 
directly from training data. 
In this study, the hybrid SVM and GPs are proposed to 
deal with training data set with outliers for the molecular 
autoregulatory feedback loop systems. In the proposed 
approach, there are two-stage strategies. In the stage 1, the 
support vector machine regression (SVMR) approach is used 
to filter out the outliers in the training data set. Because of 
the large outliers in the training data set are almost removed, 
so the large outliers effect are reduce. After the stage 1, the 
rest of the training data set is directly used to train the 
Hybrid SVM-GPs Learning for Modeling of Molecular 
Autoregulatory Feedback Loop Systems with Outliers 
Jin-Tsong Jeng1, Chen-Chia Chuang 2 and Sheng-Lun Jheng3 
  
avoid the overfitting problem. The Lagrangian function can 
be represented as follow 
 ( ){ },,
2
1
2
1
11
22
kkk
N
k
k
N
k
k yebxeL −++−+= ∑∑
==
ϕωαγω  (14) 
where Rk ∈α  is Lagrangian operator. Differential Eq. (14) 
generates Eq. (15) as follow 
( )
( )
( )⎪⎪
⎪⎪
⎪
⎩
⎪⎪
⎪⎪
⎪
⎨
⎧
=−++→=
∂
∂
==→=
∂
∂
=→=
∂
∂
=→=
∂
∂
∑
∑
=
=
.
1
1
0,0
,,,1,0
,00
,0
kkk
k
kk
k
N
k
k
N
k
kk
yebxL
Nke
e
L
b
L
xL
ϕω
α
γα
α
ϕαω
ω
…
  (15) 
Eq. (15) is similar to Eq. (6) in the SVM, but one has 
difference condition in kk eγα = . Eliminating ω and e in 
Eq. (15), can obtained Eq. (16) as follow 
 ,
0
1
10
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
=⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡
Ι+Ω y
b
v
t
v
αγ
   (16) 
where [ ]Nyyy ;;1 …= , [ ]1;;11 …=v  and [ ]Nααα ;;1 …= . 
LS-SVMR with Mercer’s condition can represent the kernel 
function 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) .,,1,,, NlkxxKxx lklkkl …===Ω ϕϕ    (17) 
Hence, the LS-SVMR can be represented as 
( ) ( ) .
1
, bxxKxf k
N
k
k += ∑
=
α     (18) 
C. Gaussian Process Regression 
The Gaussian process model is useful for regression 
estimation. To consider the data generated with Gaussian 
white noise around the function f as follow 
 ).'()]'()([, 2 xxxxEfy −=+= δσεεε        (19) 
Equivalently, the noise model or likelihood is 
),,()|( 2 IfGfyp n σ=       (20) 
where nG  is a Gaussian disturbance. Then Eq. (19) and Eq. 
(20) can be integrated into Eq. (21). The marginal likelihood 
can be represented as Eq. (21) 
),,0(
,)()|()(
2 IKG
fpfypdfyp
n σ+=
= ∫
         (21) 
where K  is covariance. Now explaining the prediction, 
there are N  training input vector and output ),( yX and 
q  test input vector qX . Hence, the joint training and test 
marginal likelihood is 
.
2 ,),0(),(
⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡
=
+=
+
+
+
qqN
qNN
qN
qNnq
KK
KK
K
IKGyyp σ
      (22) 
Hence, the training outputs .),()|( qqnq uGyyp Σ=  That 
is, two variables can be calculated by using Eq. (23). 
.
212
12
][
,][
IKIKKK
yIKKu
NqNqNqq
NqNq
σσ
σ
++−=Σ
+=
−
−
   (23) 
If we consider a single test input x*, the marginal variance is 
simplified as 
.
2
*
12
**
2
*
12
**
][
,][
σσσ
σ
++−=
+=
−
−
NNN
NN
KIKKK
yIKKu
  (24) 
Besides, the determination of hyperparameter in GPR is to 
minimize a negative log marginal likelihood ).(θL  
 
),2log(
2
)(
2
1)(detlog
2
1
)|(log
1 πθθ
θ
Nyy
ypL
T +Ψ+Ψ=
−=
−
    (25) 
where .2IK σ+=Ψ )(θL  is a non-convex optimization task. 
We can find the values of the hyperparameters which 
optimizes the marginal likelihood )(θL based on its partial 
derivatives which are easily evaluated as follows 
 yytrL
i
T
ii
111
2
1
2
1
−−− Ψ
∂
Ψ∂Ψ−
∂
Ψ∂Ψ=
∂
∂
θθθ
.  (26) 
Eq. (26) can conveniently be used in conjunction with a 
numerical optimization routine such as conjugate gradients 
to find good hyperparameter. 
D. The Hybrid Support Vector Machines and Gaussian 
Process for the Molecular Autoregulatory Feedback 
Loop System with Outliers 
Fig. 1 is the schematic representation model of the molecular 
autoregulatory feedback loop system that generating a 
circadian rhythm in mRNA and protein [8-10]. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. The schematic representation of the modeled 
molecular autoregulatory feedback loop generating a 
circadian rhythm in mRNA and protein. 
Mx  is the relative mRNA concentration, Px  is the relative 
concentration of protein that effectively provides negative 
feedback on transcription, Mr  is the rate of transcriptional 
DNA 
mRNA 
Protein 
n r 
M 
r 
P 
m 
q 
M 
P 
q 
Degradation 
Degradation 
τ 
x 
M 
x 
P 
  
proposed systems. In this paper, there are three machine 
learning methods; namely, LS-SVMR, GPR and SVM-GPs 
that using Matlab to demonstrate the performances and 
compare the effectiveness of machine learning methods. 
Besides, the simulation used for the evaluating the 
performance is the root mean square error (RMSE) defined 
as Eq. (31) 
 .
N
1i
2^
ii
N
y-y
RMSE
∑
=
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
=  (31) 
Consider the molecular autoregulatory feedback loop 
systems is 
 
( ) PpmMpP
MMn
P
MM
xqtxr
dt
dx
xq
xk
r
dt
dx
−−=
−
+
=
τ
 (32) 
where 11 −= hrM , 
121.0 −= hqM , 
11 −= hrp , 
121.0 −= hqP , τ =4h, m=3, n=5, and k=1. Assume the 
number of sampling data is 1000. Besides, we add the noise 
with three outliers to the systems. In the 1000 simulation 
data points, we selected first 600 data points as the training 
data points to build the model of the molecular 
autoregulatory feedback loop systems, and selected the last 
400 data points as the testing data. The noise data amplitude 
is 1.25. The parameters of LS-SVMR, GPR and proposed 
approach list in Table 1. The selection of hyperparameter in 
the SVMR can be found in [12]. Besides, the symbols in the 
simulation result figure are that the solid line is the GPR, the 
dash line is the LS-SVMR, the dotted line is the SVM-GPs 
(epsilon= 1), the dot-dash line is the SVM-GPs (epsilon= 5), 
and the solid line with dot is the SVM-GPs (epsilon= 6).  
Table 1. Shown the parameter for the simulation. 
  noises 
 
method 
 
Gaussian 
 
Uniform 
LS-SVMR gamma 0.455 
sig2   
19.358 
gamma 
0.046 
sig2   
0.283 
GPR  gamma 
-0.463 
c     
-1.394 
gamma 
-0.492 
c    
-1.613 
Hybrid 
Learning 
SVM and 
GPs 
g  
7.8638 
gamma 
-2.878 
C  
1.4451 
c     
-0.944 
g  
7.8638 
gamma 
-3.347 
C  
1.4451 
c    
-1.275 
The simulation results using LS-SVMR, GPR and the 
proposed approach are given from Figs. 4-7. In the proposed 
approach, the SVMR have to set epsilon value. That is, in 
the SVMR that using 1, 5, 6 to be our epsilon values. Then, 
our proposed approach is to demonstrate the result, 
respectively. Fig. 4 is the RMSE comparison of training data 
for LS-SVMR, GPR, SVM-GPs (epsilon= 1), SVM-GPs 
(epsilon= 5), and SVM-GPs (epsilon= 6) under the average 
of ten simulation results for the output mRNA. Fig. 5 is the 
RMSE comparison of testing data for LS-SVMR, GPR, 
SVM-GPs (epsilon= 1), SVM-GPs (epsilon= 5) and 
SVM-GPs (epsilon= 6) under the average of ten simulation 
results for the output mRNA. Fig. 6 is the RMSE 
comparison of training data for LS-SVMR, GPR, SVM-GPs 
(epsilon= 1), SVM-GPs (epsilon= 5), and SVM-GPs 
(epsilon= 6) under the average of ten simulation results for 
the output protein. Fig. 7 is the RMSE comparison of testing 
data for LS-SVMR, GPR, SVM-GPs (epsilon= 1), 
SVM-GPs (epsilon= 5) and SVM-GPs (epsilon= 6) under 
the average of ten simulation results for the output protein. 
Table 2 is the training and testing result of LS-SVMR, GPR, 
SVM-GPs (epsilon= 1) in two types of noises with outliers. 
Table 3 is the training and testing result of LS-SVMR, GPR, 
SVM-GPs (epsilon= 1) in two types of noises with outliers. 
From Fig. 4~7 and Table 1~2 show that the performance of 
the proposed approach is superior to the LS-SVMR and GPR 
when the outliers are existed in the molecular autoregulatory 
feedback loop systems. 
Table 2. The RMSE comparison of GPR, LS-SVMR and 
SVM-GPs for the output mRNA (epsilon= 1).  
noises 
method 
 
Gaussian 
 
Uniform 
GPR train  
1.262 
test   
0.226 
train  
1.253 
test   
0.159 
LS-SVMR train  
1.262 
test   
0.215 
train  
1.253 
test   
0.152 
SVM-GPs train  
0.146 
test   
0.147 
train 
0.048 
test   
0.047 
Table 3. The RMSE comparison of GPR, LS-SVMR and 
SVMR-GPs for the output protein (epsilon= 1). 
     noises 
method 
 
Gaussian 
 
Uniform 
GPR train  
4.048 
test   
0.4836 
train  
4.048 
test   
0.394 
LS-SVMR train  
4.059 
test   
0.507 
train  
4.053 
test   
0.461 
SVM-GPs train  
0.161 
test   
0.191 
train  
0.055 
test   
0.059 
IV. CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper, the hybrid support vector machines and 
Gaussian process for regression are developed to deal with 
training data set with outliers for the molecular 
autoregulatory feedback loop systems. Because of the large 
outliers in the training data set are almost removed in stage 1, 
so the large outlier’s effects are reduced. Hence, the 
concepts of robust learning mechanism are not used in the 
proposed approach. After the stage 1, the rest of the training 
data set is directly used to training the simple Gaussian 
process for regression. From the results of comparison show 
that the performance of the proposed approach is superior to 
the LS-SVMR and GPR when the outliers are existed in the 
molecular autoregulatory feedback loop systems. 
ACKNOWLEGDEMENTS 
The authors wish to thank that this work was supported by 
National Science Council Under Grant NSC 
96-2221-E-150-070-MY3. 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
