中文摘要
品質代表所有商品和服務以不同等級及水準的生產，即需求的多樣性使產品呈現
多樣化，但是，製造商往往不能快速滿足多變的需求，使的顧客滿意度下降，筆
記型電腦製造商採用了大規模客製化生產方式來為客戶提供產品，因此不同供應
鏈模式之客製化程度衡量可幫助筆記型電腦製造商事先衡量不同成本與利潤的
情況，本研究發展受產品動態客製化模式影響之產品總收入、半成品存貨成本、
缺貨成本、緩衝區存貨成本與作業之處理成本之量化客製化模式，針對筆記型電
腦產業之 A 型模式與 B 型模式兩種運作模式進行各項供給與需求不確定性分
析，提供業者在不同供應鏈運作情況之客製化程度、成本與利潤分析。
關鍵詞: 品質,筆記型電腦製造商,動態客製化模式,供給與需求不確定性
ABSTRACT
When all products and services are produced at different grades and levels, quality
becomes an issue. Because of the diversity of demand, the products are varied.
However, manufacturers usually cannot immediately meet these changeable demands,
so customer satisfaction tends to be reduced. Notebook manufacturers, for example,
provide products by dynamic customization, and this customization degree
measurement of different supply chain models allows these manufacturers to evaluate
costs and profits in advance. This study develops a dynamic customization model for
the total revenue of a product, the inventory cost of semi-manufactured goods, the
shortage cost, the buffer inventory cost and the business cost as influenced by the
dynamic customization degree of products. It also analyzes the supply and demand
uncertainty of the A-type model and the B-type model in the notebook computer
industry as the criteria with respect to a firm’s customization degree, plus cost and
profits in different supply chain operations.
Keywords: quality, notebook manufacturers, dynamic customization degree model,
supply and demand uncertainty
Ⅰ
Comparing B-type model, A-type model revealed a lower customization
degree. Thus, it was suitable for the M-type demand model. This study also create
the N-type demand model upon consideration of customization degree. Because of the
trend towards mobile and wireless electronics, the notebook computer industry has
kept up with PCs in terms of calculation functions. Besides, with the continuous
low-price strategies of companies such as HP, Dell and Acer to replace PCs, the
demand for notebooks growth was stunning. The application of demand should be
estimated by a N-type demand model. With the orders of brand firms in the year, the
global share of the notebook computer industry in Taiwan broke through 80% (Chen
2006). The product demand in the case of company B also revealed the growth of
N-type demand model. B-type model revealed a higher customization degree.
3.2. Arrangement of significance of assessment factors through grey relational
analysis
After the calculation of customization degree, grey relational analysis can be
used to probe the significant factors on customization degree. The degree of
relationship among sub-systems or elements could be evaluated through grey
relational analysis (Deng 1982), and important factors influential to the development
trend are then found to influence the major features of the system as in the following
steps.
3.3. The total scores of monitoring indicators:
With regard to certain assumptions on business based on the total scores of
monitoring indicators of the Council for Economic Planning and Development, this
study divided business into five levels: blue (recession), blue and yellow
(unsatisfactory business), green (stationary business), yellow and red (slightly
prosperous business) and red (overly prosperous business)(Lee and Tang 1997,
Banerji and Lorene 2001, Owyang et al. 2005, Peterson and Silver 1979, Huang and
Liang 2007).
This study used two notebook computer manufacturers as examples to compare
the construction of customization degree upon the supply chain structure of static and
dynamic decisions in order to function as the criterion for the firms when
encountering uncertain business.
4. Result and discussion
The results of this study are as shown below:
(1) This study compared the construction of different customization degree models
between B-type model and A-type model and assumed that the ordering cycle of
demand uncertainty met the Poisson distribution and that demand met Normal
distribution(Chu and Lin 2004). This study showed that A-type model revealed
higher net income. The reason was that the model involved the orders of several
computer companies. Thus, there were more demands. Besides, product
customization degree was lower and it was proper in the N-type demand model.
The B-type model involved a higher customization degree, but lower customer
demand (Chen 2006).
2
Pagh,J. D. and Cooper, M. C., “Supply chain postponement and speculation strategies: 
how to choose the right strategy,” Journal of Business Logistics, 19(2), 13-34, 1998.
Peterson, R. and Silver, E., Decision Systems for Inventory Management and
Production Planning, 1979(John Wiley Publishers: New York).
Salvador, F., Rungtusanatham, M. and Forza, C., “Supply-chain configurations for
mass customization,” Production Planning & Control, 15(4), 381–397, 2004.
Zinn, W. and Bowersox, D. J., “PlanningPhysical Distribution with the Principle of
Postponement,” Journal of Business Logistics, 9(2), 117-136, 1988.
4
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
Shen-Tsu Wang, 2010,＇＇An analysis of manufacturers' supply and demand 
uncertainty based on the dynamic customisation degree,＇International 
Journal of Production Research.(SCI,accepted)(NSC 98-2218-E-251-002)
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
