 2
keywords: Color Structured Light, Curve Reconstruction Algorithm, , Laser Scanner, Stereo 
Vision System, Triple-filter Algorithm  
 
High-speed, non-contact measurement methods for 3-D coordinate acquisition have many 
applications. Typical examples are the digitization of complex surfaces in the reverse engineering, 
the digitization of human bodies in the medical treatment, and the 3-D reconstruction and 
reservation of antiques or heritage. Many techniques have been proposed, both passive and active. 
Most high-accuracy systems are implemented in active-based approach. Laser scanner can 
provide very high-accuracy and high-quality reconstruction of various objects, from plaster cast 
to porcelain. Laser scanner, which lacks portability and user-friendly feature, is usually designed 
with complex mechanism, and a complicate calibration process is needed to acquire highly 
accurate measurement. Some researchers focus on the structured-light-based technique, a series 
of B/W images coded in gray code are projected onto objects, from the displacement of the same 
code value, 3-D coordinate can be calculated. The drawbacks are a LCD projector and a video 
camera are needed to generate several B/W images and capture frames with pattern-projected 
objects, the system cost is high and the scan time is lengthened.  
 
Our goal is to propose the cost-effective and ease-use solution, only single shot with color 
bars is necessary to reconstruct the geometry model. The system contains one digital camera and 
two flashes, which are integrated into a portable device. This research proposes a new fast and 
high-resolution color structured-light-based 3D imaging system. Unlike the expensive laser-based 
3D imaging system, our hand-held system contains a commercial digital camera and two special 
designed projectors, the cost is much lower. Only two images are necessarily to reconstruct the 
3D model with textures. One projector illuminates white light for texture imaging, the other 
projector projects special designed pattern for 3D information imaging. 384 vertical color bars 
(comprised of six primary colors) with special coding are projected onto the target, our proposed 
algorithm detects edges between any two successive color bars. From decoding algorithm the 
correct locations of edges are derived. Then the calibration algorithm finds accurate positions of 
edges in 3D space with triangulation. 
 
In the process of decoding and feature extraction, color bars can be seriously distorted by 
colorful objects. Edges and colors of the object may cause edges of color bars to be broken 
segments. And some bars even show very different colors. A curve reconstruction algorithm is 
developed to reconstruct the complete edge from residual edge segments. And a robust color 
decoding algorithm can recover the correct color sequence even when many color bars are 
seriously distorted. Besides, we will propose a triple-filter algorithm, which is used to solve the 
problem of color distortion. When the color pattern is projected on the object, the color 
appearance of the color bars may be seriously distorted by the reflectance of the object. The 
triple-filter algorithm recovers the correct appearance of the color bars and locates the correct 
color sequence. Besides, in order to identify the position and sequence of all color bars in the 
color pattern, we apply special coding in the combinations of the color bars. 
 
三、研究方法概述 
主要演算法之設計內容 
 
Figure 3.1：結構性光源立體取像之演算法流程。 
3D Camera 之軟體演算法主要分成三部分：投射圖案設計、影像處理及立體模型重建。
Figure 3.1 為演算法流程圖。其步驟細分為八組程序： 
(1) Select Primary Colors：在此演算法中是採用投射垂直色帶（Color Bars）方式，所以
要決定色帶所使用之顏色。 
(2) Arrange Patterns：決定色帶排列方式，其重點在於相鄰的色帶其邊界很容易準確定
位，而且投射在物體上其排列順序可以很正確判定。 
(3) Capture Images：由數位相機取二張影像，其一為投白色光之結果，為物體之貼圖；
其二為色帶投射之結果，用來計算物體 3D 座標。 
(4) Edge Detection：針對含有色帶之影像作邊緣偵測（Edge Detection），此為物體取樣
 4
 Figure 4.2：實驗平面。 
 
Figure 4.3：投射 pattern 後之平面。 
 
Figure 4.4：重建平面之 3D mesh 加上 texture image。 
 
z 驗證結論：經五次量測後，我們計算平面上每一點的 Z 座標，並計算其與 Z＝0
平面的距離，求取其標準差以此標準差做為誤差的衡量標準，結果如 Table 
 6
  
Figure 4.5：實驗物體。 
 
Figure 4.6：水平方向疊合角度誤差分析。 
 
(a) (b) 
 8
