basic organizational ethos, it is apparent that many differences exist between private 
enterprise and the public sector in promoting TQM (Wamsley, 1990; Carnevale, 1995; 
Mintzberg, 1996; Zeppou and Sotirakou, 2003). It is clear that ways of doing things in 
private enterprise might not be suited to the public sector. In particular, it is the 
contention of the present authors that the public service faces more challenges in meeting 
customer expectations than is the case in the private enterprise. 
The present study therefore undertook an empirical examination of the performance 
of customer-oriented service activities in the public sector. The study used the 
customer-oriented service-enhancement system (COSES) model of Chen et al. (2004) as 
a research framework to investigate Taiwanese public agencies. This model employs a 
dual-dimensional approach to a customer-oriented service system: (i) the design and 
management of a customer-oriented service system; and (ii) the fostering of 
organizational service culture. 
2. Literature review 
2.1 TQM and customer orientation 
TQM is a philosophy of management that is characterized by certain principles, 
practices, and techniques (Dean and Bowen, 1994). Its main goal is satisfying the needs 
of the customer-now and in the future. The best-known aspects of TQM-customer focus, 
continuous improvement, and teamwork-are explicitly or implicitly aimed at the 
achievement of this objective.  
According to Dean and Bowen (1994), the first and most important principle of 
TQM is a focus on the customer. Isakson and Spencer (2000) pointed out that four most 
commonly cited components of TMQ are: (i) a focus on the customer; (ii) support of 
senior management; (iii) employee fulfilment; and (iv) continuous improvement. From a 
practical perspective, Douglas and Judge (2001) identified seven key practices in 
implementing a TQM project-(i) involvement of senior management; (ii) adoption of a 
quality philosophy; (iii) emphasis on TQM-oriented training; (iv) focus on the customer; 
(v) continuous improvement of processes; (vi) management by fact; and (vii) use of TQM 
methods.  
A review of the literature reveals that ‘customer orientation’ is described in various 
ways-including ‘customer-driven’, ‘customer focus’, ‘customer-centered’, ‘customer 
first’, and ‘customer is king’. It is therefore widely acknowledged that a successful 
organization needs to have a customer-oriented business culture (Brady and Cronin, 
2001). This culture should be pervasive throughout an organization-such that employees 
consistently exhibit customer-oriented behaviors, and such that consumers thereby 
become accustomed to this philosophy (Dobni et al., 2000). It has also become a 
generally accepted principle that an organization should become customer-oriented if it is 
to deliver better service quality and enhance customer satisfaction (Hartline et al., 2000). 
By comparing the performance of firms who had received quality awards with a matched 
control group of firms who had not, Hendricks and Singhal (1997) demonstrated that the 
firms that had quality awards outperformed the control group in income and revenues 
over a ten-year period. A second study performed by Hendricks and Singhal (2001) 
demonstrated that the long-run stock performance of firms that had received quality 
awards was significantly higher than a matched control group of companies that had not 
 2
a competitive cost/benefit analysis while not coming into conflict with the essential 
nature of the public sector (Jan, 1999). This is perhaps one of the greatest challenges to 
attempts to re-invent the delivery of government services. 
2.3 Difficulties in defining the ‘customers’ of the public service 
Another difficulty for the public service is in defining its ‘customers’ (Swiss, 1992; 
Morgan and Murgatroyd, 1994). Unlike private enterprises, which are able to choose the 
market in which they wish to invest and the customers they wish to serve, public agencies 
must satisfy various kinds of customers. The motivations of some of these customers in 
seeking services might well conflict with the motivations of others. In addition, 
public-service agencies must pay heed to the opinions and needs of ‘silent’ customers-as 
well as being aware of those who voice their needs and concerns. In assessing the needs 
of their customers, public-service agencies are therefore compromised by difficulties in 
balancing these various interest groups. 
Apart from the above difficulties, some types of public services have an inherent 
difficulty in satisfying their ‘customers’ because their particular form of public service 
consists of regulating the behavior of those ‘customers’. Agencies such as traffic control, 
environmental protection, and prison services fit into this category. For this reason, it has 
been asserted that initiating customer-oriented services in a TQM program is simply 
inappropriate for some public agencies (Lerner, 1992). 
2.4 Difficulties with the organizational characteristics of the pubic service 
The third difficulty for the public service is that the organizational structure of the 
public sector is bureaucratic-and Weber (1978) contended that bureaucracies are 
incapable of attaining the highest degree of efficiency. Control mechanisms in the public 
sector have to follow the structures and processes put in place by bureaucratic agencies or 
government legislation, whereas such mechanism in the private sector are, in the main, 
set by the market and specific regulatory processes (Cole, 1988).  
Apart from the above difficulties, Kearsey and Varey (1998) identified other 
difficulties for the pubic service in adapting service-quality management techniques from 
the private sector. These included: (i) multiple, non-financial, conflicting, and ambiguous 
goals; (ii) lack of agreement on means and ends; (iii) environmental turbulence; (iv) 
immeasurable outputs; and (v) effects of management intervention being unpredictable. 
 
3. Research framework-COSES model 
The present study used the customer-oriented service enhancement system (COSES) 
model of Chen et al. (2004) to investigate the performance of customer-oriented service 
activities in the public sector. The COSES model was developed from an examination of 
the best customer-oriented service activities of Taiwanese public agencies. Rather than 
using a single dimension in developing a customer-oriented service model (as had been 
done in previous studies), Chen et al. (2004) argued that a comprehensive model required 
two dimensions: (i) the design and management of a customer-oriented service system; 
and (ii) the fostering of an organizational culture. 
Figure 1 presents the conceptual framework of the COSES model. In the first 
 4
and development (R&D); (iv) Japanese 5-S principles; (v) service-process re-engineering; 
and (vi) volunteering and outsourcing. In all, there were 25 assessment criteria in the 
NSQPP. 
Four types of public agencies were identified within these groups-(i) those that 
provided direct services to the general public (such as census collection, estate 
registration, taxation services, and so on); (ii) those that provided services to particular 
groups of citizens (such as education and social welfare); (iii) those that provided 
technical and engineering services (such as public construction and maintenance); and (iv) 
those that provided services to internal customers (such as personnel services, accounting 
services, and strategic planning). In all, 24 agencies were randomly chosen. They 
included 6 agencies of type (i), 6 agencies of type (ii), 6 agencies of type (iii), and 6 
agencies of type (iv). 
4.2 Research instrument 
In accordance with the COSES model (Chen et al. 2004), a measurement scale was 
developed. The research instrument is presented in Table 2. 
 
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
Customer
identification
Customer-needs
survey
Service-system
design
Service delivery Service recovery
Dimension of service-system design & management
Excellent
Good
Medium
Poor
 
Figure 2. Performance gaps among the five-phase-system design and management 
 
In this research instrument, there were 18 items in the five-phase COSES model, 
with 3-5 items of customer-oriented service activities in each phase. A 5-point Likert-type 
scale was used to assess each statement (1 = ‘not at all’; 2 = ‘to a small extent’; 3 = ‘to a 
moderate extent’; 4 = ‘to a great extent’; and 5 = ‘to a very large extent’). Two trained 
raters participated in each observation, and a non-participative observational approach 
was used in this study. The score derived from the measurement scale reflected how well 
customer orientation had been implemented by any given public agency. The sum of the 
scores of the five phases of the COSES model provided a total score, which was taken as 
an index (between 18 and 90). 
 6
Journal of Marketing, 64, pp. 35-50. 
Hendricks, K. B. and Singhal, V. (1997) Does implementing an effective TQM program 
actually improve operating performance? Empirical evidence from firms that have 
won quality awards, Management Science, 43, pp. 1258-1274. 
Hendricks, K. B. and Singhal, V. (2001) The long-run stock price performance of firms 
with effective TQM programs, Management Science, 47, pp. 359-368. 
Hsieh, A. T., Chou, C. H. and Chen, C. M. (2002) Job standardization and service quality: 
A closer look at the application of total quality management to the public sector, Total 
Quality Management & Business Excellence, 13(7), pp. 899-912. 
Isakson, H. R. and Spencer, M. (2000) Total quality management and residential real 
estate agency issues, The Journal of Real Estate Research, 20(1-2), pp. 179-188. 
Jan, C. Y. (1999) New Public Management, Taipei: Wu-Nan Book Inc. 
Jaworski, B., Kohli, A. and Sahay, A. (2000) Market driven versus driving markets, 
Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 28(1), pp. 45-54. 
Kearsey, A. and Varey, R. J. (1998) Managerialist thinking on marketing for public 
services, Public Money and Management, January-March, pp. 51-61. 
Korunka, C., Carayon, P., Sainfort, F., Scharitzer, D. and Hoonakker, P. (2003) Quality in 
the public sector from an employee’s perspective: Results from a transactional 
comparison, Total Quality Management & Business Excellence, 14(5), pp. 537-548. 
Lerner, A. W. (1992) Contemporary Complexities and Administrative Realities: the 
Challenge of Serving Clients, in Lerner, A. W. and Wanal, J. (Eds), In Public 
Administration: Realistic Reinterpretation of Contemporary Public Management, New 
Jersey: Prentice-Hall, Inc. 
Marson, B. (1993) Building customer-focused organizations in British Columbia, Public 
Administration Quarterly, 17, pp. 30-41. 
Merton, R. K. (1940) Bureaucratic structure and personality, Social Forces, 18, pp. 
560-568. 
Milakovich, M. E. (1994/95) How quality-oriented have state and local governments 
really become? National Productivity Review, 14, pp. 73-84. 
Mintzberg, H. (1996) Managing government, governing management, Harvard Business 
Review, May-June, pp. 75-83. 
Morgan, C. and Murgatroyd, S. (1994) Total Quality Management in the Public Sector: 
An International Perspective, London, Open University. 
Nwankwo, S. (1995) Developing a customer orientation, Journal of Consumer Marketing, 
12(5), pp. 5-15. 
Robertson, P. J. and Seneviratne, S. J. (1995) Outcomes of planned organizational change 
in the public sector: A meta-analytic comparison to the private sector, Public 
Administration Review, 55, pp. 547-558. 
Saint-Martin, D. (2001) When industrial policy shapes public sector reform: Total quality 
management in Britain and France, West European Politics, 24, pp. 105-124. 
Scharitzer, D. and Korunka, C. (2000) New public management: Evaluating the success 
of total quality management and change management interventions in public services 
from the employees' and customers' perspectives, Total Quality Management & 
Business Excellence, 11(7), pp. 941-953. 
Steinman, C., Deshpande, R. and Farley, J. U. (2000) Beyond market orientation: When 
 8
