consideration of the psychological aspects of a 
product, including the emotional and aesthetic 
responses of an individual to the proposed 
product design. So far as we know, very few 
computer-aided design systems support the 
product color-planning activities, although 
many tasks performed by an industrial 
designer involve the consideration of the 
potential user’s perception of the product color. 
Van Dijk Casper [4] mentioned that currently 
no CAD systems existed to satisfy the 
requirements of conceptual design. Generally, 
a designer carries out the color-planning 
activities of the product design based upon his 
or her individual experience, artistic sense, 
and subjective view, but this is not objective 
enough and very inefficient. If the designer 
possessed the facility to access a powerful tool 
to evaluate the image of the designed color 
schemes or to search for an ideal color 
combination, he or she could quickly display 
the appropriate product colors by using a 
customized interface linked with the CAD 
system during the conceptual design period. 
In the field of color-image evaluation 
research, Ishihara et al. [5] attempted to build 
a Kansei Engineering expert system for single 
color images by using self-organizing neural 
networks. In the first-year project, the current 
author [6] applied gray theory [7] and Moon 
and Spencers’ color harmony theory [8-10] to 
develop a quantitative method for evaluating 
the overall image perception of a product 
comprising components of two colors defined 
using RGB parameters. Although these 
methods can be used to evaluate product color 
images, they are unable to generate required 
color combinations or to search for the colors 
which best fit the designer’s image 
requirements. However, the obtained color 
combinations must be supervised by 
appropriate color harmony theories since if 
such supervision is not applied, the search 
results are liable to be dull and uncoordinated 
even if the color combination is close to the 
specified image goal. Ou and Luo [11] 
proposed a quantitative color harmony model 
based on the CIELAB color space. Tokumaru 
et al. [12] proposed a system which 
automatically composes color schemes which 
are in harmony with a color input in the 
system and correspondent to the user’s image. 
Accordingly, this research develops a color 
design system which enables the designer to 
evaluate color images or to search for required 
color combinations for multi-colored products 
by combining the methods proposed 
previously on gray-theory-based image 
evaluation, color-harmony-based aesthetic 
evaluation and genetic-algorithm-based color 
search respectively. 
The color harmony model proposed by 
Ou and Luo [11] was used in this research to 
evaluate the overall aesthetic image of a 
product. It would be much useful if this 
method can be extended towards more than 
two colors. In an attempt to remedy this 
situation, this research further focuses on the 
aesthetic evaluation method for multi-colored 
products. Finally, the genetic algorithm [16] is 
utilized to search for an ideal color design 
which matches the input emotional image 
requirement with an acceptable qualification 
of the aesthetic image. 
The genetic algorithm has been 
successfully applied to many optimization 
problems. In the present study, the genetic 
algorithm is applied in a stochastic 
optimization technique to search for 
near-optimal color combination candidates. To 
facilitate genetic operations, the product 
colors are encoded with finite parameters. By 
defining the color parameters and the related 
fitness function as reasonable as possible, the 
chromosomes (color-design candidates) 
produced during the population-based search 
process would evolve towards an optimal 
color-design solution. A multi-colored 
thermos flask, the same example as the 
first-year project, is considered for the 
illustration purposes to demonstrate the 
feasibility of the proposed method. 
 
3. Implementation Method 
The color planning stage of a thermos 
flask design activity is used as an example to 
demonstrate the procedure adopted in this 
present study. A rendered 3-D model of the 
constructed flask is shown in Fig. 1. The 
implementation procedures are described in 
the paragraphs which follow. 
3.1. Product Color Evaluation Using 
Emotional and Aesthetic Scales 
3.1.1 Emotional image evaluation 
As shown in Fig. 1, this thermos flask 
example consists of the main body, the lid, 
4. Case Studies 
4.1 Example I for emotional and aesthetic 
Evaluations 
This example involves the design of a 
thermos flask and the prediction of its 
emotional and aesthetic image evaluation 
based upon an input set of color parameters. 
The interface presented in Fig. 3 illustrates the 
given values for the flask color-design. When 
all of the parameter settings had been 
specified, the “3-D Color Simulation” button 
was clicked to export the VRML file from the 
CAD system to the Cosmo Player, as shown in 
Fig. 4. After the design had been viewed 
dynamically and had been accepted as 
satisfactory, clicking the “Image Evaluation” 
button to predict the image scores. The 
predicted overall emotional and aesthetic 
evaluations of the flask are 0.26 and 0.53, 
respectively. 
 
Fig. 3. Interface for constructing 3-D model 
and performing color-image prediction 
 
 
Fig. 4. 3-D VRML file presented on Cosmo 
Player 
 
4.2 Example II for color combination 
searching 
This example represents the inverse 
operation to that described above. The 
interface shown in Fig. 5 is used to generate 
an ideal color combination by specifying 
targets for the emotional and aesthetic 
properties of the thermos flask. The designer 
specifies a target emotional evaluation 
(feminine–masculine) of 0.8, an emotional 
weight of 0.4, an aesthetic weight of 0.6, and a 
5-color combination. The number of iterated 
generations is set to 1000, which indicates that 
the optimization system must process the 
fitness function evaluation 10000 times since 
the population size is set by default to 10. In 
the maximization problem indicated in Eq. (5), 
the larger the fitness value, the more the 
evolved color combination fits the desired 
image. The final search result is shown in the 
search result window illustrated in Fig. 6, 
which indicates the actual and the emotional 
and aesthetic target evaluation ratings, the 
CIELAB parameters for the best-fitted colors, 
and the overall fitness of the 
evolution-terminated generation. It is noted  
 
Fig. 5. Interface for product color combination 
search 
 
 
Fig. 6. Search-result window presenting 
evolved color variables of best-fitted colors 
and corresponding image data 
[13] Goldberg D.E. Genetic algorithms in 
searching, optimization and machine 
learning. Massachusetts: Addison- 
Wesley, 1989. 
 
7. 成果自評 
(1) 原第一年期「雙色產品」所運用 Moon & 
Spencer 的色彩調和模式，當運用在第
二年期「多色產品」時，其可靠度較差，
經運用並正規化 Ou 與 Luo 所提出之色
彩調和模式後，由實驗驗證得知其可靠
度大幅改善。 
(2) 建立一「多色產品」之色彩計畫系統，
不僅可正向評價多色產品之色彩意象
與色彩調和美度，亦可逆向搜尋符合目
標意象之最佳化色彩組配，研究成果符
合原第二年計畫之預期。 
(3) 本研究計畫成果已發表刊登於設計相關
之 SCI / EI 國際期刊論文 2 篇，知名國
際研討會論文 2篇，另有 1篇投稿於 SCI
之期刊論文審查中。各項成果列示如
下： 
[第一年期] 
1. H-C Tsai*, J-R Chou. 
2007/9, 
Automatic design support and image 
evaluation of two-colored products 
using color association and color 
harmony scales and genetic algorithm. 
Computer-Aided Design; 39(9): 
818-828. (NSC94-2213-E-343-001) 
(SCI) 
 
2. H-C Tsai*, C-Y Hung, F-K Hung. 
2007/7, 
Automatic product color design using 
genetic searching. 
The 12th International Conference 
on Computer-Aided Architectural 
Design, pp513-524, University of 
Sydney, Sydney, Australia. 
(NSC94-2213-E-343-001) 
 
[第二年期]                         
1. H-C Tsai*, C-Y Hung, F-K Hung. 
2007/6, 
Computer aided product color design 
with artificial intelligence. 
Computer-Aided Design & 
Applications; 4(1-4): 557-564. 
(NSC95-2221-E-343-004) (EI) 
 
2. H-C Tsai*, C-Y Hung, Fi-K Hung. 
2007/6, 
Computer aided product color design 
with artificial intelligence. 
2007 International CAD Conference 
and Exhibition, Honolulu, Hawaii. 
(NSC95-2221-E-343-004) 
 
3. 另一部分成果已投稿於設計相關之
SCI 國際期刊。 
 
 
 
 
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 4, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 557-564 
 
557 
 Computer Aided Product Color Design with Artificial Intelligence 
 
Hung-Cheng Tsai1, Chia-Young Hung2 and Fei-Kung Hung3 
 
1Department of Applied Art and Design, Nanhua University, tomtsai@mail.nhu.edu.tw 
2Department of Industrial Design, National Cheng Kung University, maxhong.family@msa.hinet.net 
3Department of Information Management, WuFeng Institute of Technology, feigo@mail.wfc.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Color plays a key role for customers in determining what they like or dislike. Although many of the 
tasks performed by an industrial designer at the color-planning design stage involve the 
consideration of the user’s perception of the product color, very few computer-aided design systems 
are available to support this set of particular design activities. A quantitative evaluation and search 
method based on the RGB (i.e. R(Red), G(Green) and B(Blue)) color system within the product 
design cycle is proposed in this article. The questionnaire-based process which is traditionally 
employed to obtain objective color psychology tends to be time-consuming. Accordingly, this study 
proposes the use of gray system theory to overcome this problem. Using these additive primaries to 
simulate specific basic color samples is an efficient means of investigating single color image on a 
personal computer. Subsequently, a gray-theory-based emotional evaluation method and a color-
harmony-based aesthetic evaluation method are combined to diagnose appropriate product-color 
schemes. In a reverse process, genetic algorithm is used to search for a near-optimal color-
combination design for multi-colored products. A three-colored baby walker is chosen as the subject 
of the current investigation to show the effectiveness of the proposed method. 
 
 
Keywords: Color, Gray theory, Genetic algorithm, Artificial intelligence, Optimum design. 
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Nowadays, the functional aspects of many consumptive products used in daily life are fully matured. For products with 
similar functions, a product’s style becomes an important factor in a consumer’s decision-making process when 
deciding which particular product to purchase [1]. The overall image perception of a product’s style is generally 
induced by its form and by its color. The current author [2] investigated the overall image of a product, and the results 
showed that the overall image perception was dominated by the product’s color rather than by its form. Lai et al. [3] 
also indicated in their research that product color has a greater effect on the consumers’ perception of a product than 
the product form. It is wasteful and expensive for an enterprise to attempt to design the wide variety of product forms 
which would be required to meet the needs of each individual consumer. However, enterprises can vary the color 
matches of product’s individual components in order to generate a wide variety of product image perceptions. To 
Design and manufacture the wide variety of product forms required to meet the diverse requirements of individual 
consumers is both time consuming and expensive. By providing products whose components are of different colors, 
enterprises are able to satisfy the particular tastes of each individual consumer. Therefore, developing products with 
various color plans for different consumer groups has become an essential strategy for many enterprises. 
 
Most CAD product development systems only addressed the physical aspects of product design. However, an equally 
important element of the design process is the consideration of the psychological aspects of a product, including the 
emotional and aesthetic responses of an individual to the proposed product design. So far as we know, very few 
computer-aided design systems support the product color-planning activities, although many tasks performed by an 
industrial designer involve the consideration of the potential user’s perception of the product color. Van Dijk Casper [4] 
mentioned that currently no CAD systems existed to satisfy the requirements of conceptual design. Generally, a 
designer carries out the color-planning activities of the product design based upon his or her individual experience, 
artistic sense, and subjective view, but this is not objective enough and very inefficient. If the designer possessed the 
facility to access a powerful tool to evaluate the image of the designed color schemes or to search for an ideal color 
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 4, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 557-564 
 
559 
units within the range of 0-255. Then the 125 color samples were successively rendered on the 3-D model and shown 
to the subjects to perform a questionnaire investigation. 
 
 
Fig. 1: Rendered 3-D model of baby walker with three-color appearance. 
 
The present research adopts the gray clustering operation of the gray theory in the evaluation of the emotional image 
for multi-colored products. The objective equation is given by the following [10]. 
 jk
m
j
ijjkik af ησ )(
1
∑
=
=  (1.1) 
where ija  represents the judgment membership with the jth attribute (color) of the ith sample (color combination). The 
weighting factor function, jkf , indicates the significance of the jth color to the kth cluster (color-emotion word), and 
jkη  is the weighting factor coefficient of the corresponding jkf . Finally, ikσ  denotes the evaluation value for the kth 
cluster of the ith sample. 
 
Further, the image intensities ( ikσ ) of the color-emotion words can be fuzzified into a membership value ( EIE ) [12] 
for the overall emotional evaluation. 
 
2.1.2 Aesthetic Image Evaluation 
The normalization rules of the aesthetic measurement method for two-colored products were defined by the current 
author in [12]. By using this previously proposed method, the aesthetic evaluation value ( ijae ) was obtained for the 
combination of Color i and Color j. However, in the color design system developed in the current study, a multi-color 
combination is considered. In order to aggregate the overall image, the overall aesthetic evaluation value ( AIE ) is 
defined as: 
 )(
1
1 1
∑ ∑
−
= +=
⋅=
n
j
n
ji
ijijAI aeE γ  (1.2) 
where ijγ  is the area coefficient within the range [0,1], and the sum of all ijγ  is equal to 1. 
 
2.2 Color Combination Search Using Genetic Algorithm 
Since the two emotional evaluation and the aesthetic evaluation models are built, it could be adopted as the fitness 
function when searching for an optimal color design to meet a required image target using a genetic algorithm. The 
basic concept of the color search mechanism is illustrated in Fig. 2. This mechanism is proposed in the current study 
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 4, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 557-564 
 
561 
shown in Fig. 5. For the emotional words, i.e. girl, neutral and boy, the image scores are 0.19, 0.81 and 0.12, 
respectively. It demonstrates a highest image score of 0.81, which corresponds to the word “neutral”, which represents 
the closest emotional evaluation of the walk color-design. Alternatively, the predicted overall emotional and aesthetic 
evaluations of the walker are 0.48 and 0.56, respectively. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3: Interface for constructing a 3-D color-rendered model and image prediction. 
 
 
Fig. 4: Rendered 3-D model of Example I displayed on the Cosmo Player. 
 
3.2 Example II for Color Combination Searching 
This example represents the inverse operation to that described above. The interface shown in Fig. 6 is used to 
generate an ideal color combination by specifying targets for the emotional and aesthetic properties of the baby walker. 
The designer specifies a target emotional evaluation (girl–boy) of 0.8, an emotional weight of 0.4, an aesthetic weight 
of 0.6. The number of iterated generations is set to 500, which indicates that the optimization system must process the 
fitness function evaluation 5000 times since the population size is set by default to 10. Fig. 7 illustrates the trend for the 
fitness improvement over the evolution of the search process. In the maximization problem indicated in Eqn. (2.1), the 
larger the fitness value, the more the evolved color combination fits the desired image. Therefore, it can be seen that as 
the generation number increases, the emotional and aesthetic evaluations vary irregularly in order to maximize the 
fitness value, i.e. to obtain a color combination which increasingly fits the goal image. Fig. 8 illustrates the best-fitted 
color combinations at the 1st, 100th, 200th, 300th, 400th and 500th generations, respectively. The figure clearly shows 
the evolution statuses of the elite color combination towards the target image evaluation requirement. The final search 
result is shown in the search result window illustrated in Fig. 9, which indicates the actual and the emotional and 
aesthetic target evaluation ratings, the RGB parameters for the three best-fitted colors, and the overall fitness of the 
evolution-terminated generation. It is noted that this dialogue window also permits the designer to click the “3-D Color 
Simulation” button to view a 3-D image of the walker rendered in the best evolved color combination. 
 Computer-Aided Design & Applications, Vol. 4, Nos. 1-4, 2007, pp 557-564 
 
563 
reasons and for design performance reasons [17]. Consequently, this study has introduced a method which uses gray 
theory, aesthetic measurement and a genetic algorithm to generate and evaluate color-design candidates automatically. 
The customized color design system in this study provides a designer with a valuable indication of the image 
tendencies of his/her design. The designer can also establish an ideal color scheme for a given set of image demands. 
 
 
Fig. 7: Trends for each image and improvement of fitness during search process 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: Best-fitted color combinations at (a) initial, (b) 100th, (c) 200th, (d) 300th, (e) 400th and (f) 500th generation. 
 
5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The authors gratefully acknowledge the support provided to this study by the National Science Council of Taiwan 
under grant NSC95-2221-E-343-004. 
 
6. REFERENCES 
[1] Hsiao, S.-W.; Tsai, H.-C.: Use of Gray System Theory in product-color planning, Color Research and 
Application, 29(3), 2004, 222-231. 
[2] Tsai, H.-C.; Hsiao, S.-W.; Hung F.-K.: An image evaluation approach for parameter-based product form and 
color design, Computer-Aided Design, 38(2), 2006, 157-171. 
[3] Lai, H.-H.; Lin, Y.-C.; Yeh, C.-H.; Wei, C.-H.: User-oriented design for the optimal combination on product, 
International Journal of Production Ergonomics, 100(2), 2006, 253-267. 
