 2
degassing the insoluble gases out of 
microchannels. This micropump driven by a 
simple circuit control without mechanical 
moving parts is suitable for the development of 
low power-consumption and compact 
micropumps. Experimental results demonstrate 
the pumping function of our micropump to 
continuously push liquid forward based on our 
roughness gradient design and the periodic 
electrolytic-bubble generation in the 
microchannel. Furthermore, experimental 
results also show that the liquid displacement 
and the pumping rate could be easily and 
accurately controlled by adjusting the 
amplitude and the frequency of the applied 
voltage. 
In this study, our low-power consumption 
micropumps have been successfully 
demonstrated. The theoretical analysis, design, 
micromachining process, operating principles, 
and characterization developed in this year are 
described in this report.  
 
Keywords: Micropump；Electrolysis Bubble；
Microfluid 
 
二. 研究目的與文獻探討 
 
本期研究計畫將利用微機電系統微小
化、高精密度、大量批次製造等優點，引用
微機電系統技術並提出仿蓮葉效應之微流體
致動及其應用，本仿蓮葉效應之微流體致動
將可應用在散熱系統晶片，將改善傳統散熱
系統如散熱風散價格昂貴、需大量材料、龐
大笨重、耗費人力，預期完成後將具有高效
率、低污染、噪音小、等優點，使其成為於
晶片上成為可攜式之散熱系統，另外在生醫
檢測方面，做為微流體晶片之流體推進器，
主要是因為目前生醫晶片藥物的注入都需要
外加幫浦的推動才能作用，利用本計畫所提
出的仿蓮葉效應之微流體致動可有效快速達
到流體的傳輸。未來市場上可應用於可攜式
之微生醫檢測晶片、筆記型電腦散熱器、……
等等。本研究計畫的重點在仿蓮葉效應之分
析設計與製程製造研發，對目前微機電
(MEMS)研究領域將有極大的貢獻。 
各種利用微機電技術作出的致動器如電
磁式 (electromagnetic) 、形狀記憶合金式
(shape memory alloy)、靜電式(electrostatic)、
壓電式 (piezoelectric) 、熱雙膜式 (thermal 
bimorgh)、階梯步進式(stepwise)、熱氣動式
(thermoneumatic)、梳狀靜電式(comb drive)、
熱氣泡(thermal bubble)等已經成功的被製造
且被應用在微機電系統上[1][2]，但是各具優
缺點。  
為了實現能達到微流體運送，需要可輸
出大力量且適合使用於微流體的致動機制，
由於靜電式、梳狀致動式因輸出力小不適
用，熱氣動式、形狀記憶合金式因體積不易
微米化並不適用，壓電式與電磁式因材料特
殊不易與 IC 相容並不適用，熱雙膜式應用在
微流體可能會因熱散失而失去致動的機制，
至於熱氣泡式與電化學式滿足大出力且可用
於微流體，可用來當作本研究計畫驅動機制。 
 
z 電解氣泡式致動器 
1996 年 Cristina R. Neagu 等人第一次發
表結合微機電系統(MEMS)與電化學原理做
出的微致動器[3]，其原理是利用銅(Cu)當陽
極(anode)，鉑(Pt)當陰極在含有硫酸銅電解
質(copper sulphate)溶液中去電解(electrolysis)
水溶液進而產生氧氣(oxygen)造成一氣體壓
力去推動薄膜，使薄膜產生形變位移以達到
致動的效果。  
1999 年 Sebastian Böhm 等人發表”A 
Bi-directional Electrochemically Driven Micro 
Liquid Dosing System with integrated 
Sensor/Actuator Electrodes”[4]，其理論亦是
採用電化學原理，利用鉑(Pt)當電極電解氮
化鉀(KNO3)溶液，產生氫氣(H2)與氧氣(O2)
造成體積增加，推動結構蜿蜒(meander)設計
流道之流體往前流動，此外，透過改變電流
極性，利用電化學原理的逆反應，此裝置亦
可達到前、後雙向的制動方向，亦即可驅動
液體向前或是拉回液體，最後可設計用來注
射微量(nanoliter)的藥劑或可以應用在微小
整體分析系統(μTAS)上作為把檢體(sample)
送入系統的裝置。 
 2000 年，Alexandros P. Papavasiliu 發表
了 ”Electrolysis-Bubble ActuatedGated 
Valve”[5]也是一種利用氣泡產生表面張力當
驅動機制的微閥開關，但相較於熱氣泡式需
持續輸入能量，Papavasiliu 的電解氣泡閥制
動一次能量消耗只要 4.3μW，卻少於相同裝
 4
較易被限制在一區域內。相反的，若是液體
表面的分子要脫離液體表面而成為氣體分
子，則液體分子需要一能量(自由能)方能克
服液體液體分子間的吸引力，而脫離液體的
氣體，例如一氣泡，為了維持其為最小氣泡
所需能量(自由能)正比於氣泡的表面積，意
即當表面積最小時氣泡所需的自由能亦最
小，所以氣泡形狀總是圓形。圓形水泡的表
面張力(suface tension)可由 Young-Laplace 
equation[7]得知 
R
PP Lv
σ2+=                  
其中 σ是表面張力，R 是水泡的半徑，Pv 是
水泡內的氣壓，PL 是水泡周圍的液壓。
Young-Laplace equation 可由半球形水泡內
外的壓力差與環狀分佈的表面張力達到力平
衡來解釋 
σππ RpR 22 =Δ                 
R
p σ2=Δ                      
水泡內部的壓力正比於表面張力，由上
式可知在小尺寸時表面張力變的更重要。而
水泡與水中氣泡之表面張力的概念相同，為
了使氣泡不破掉，在氣泡內部會存在壓力差
pΔ 以對抗氣泡外液體在氣泡表面施給氣泡
之表面張力。 
 
z 親疏水性之毛細現象與障壁壓力原理 
首先，若將流體注入親水性流道內,會受
到毛細力的影響而流動，若在管內遇到達疏
水性材料時，會因為親水性材料以及疏水性
材料所造成之障壁壓力（pressure barrier），
而使流體於微流道中產生停止的效果。其原
理如下[8]：流體在微流道中，總表面之能量
TU 可被表示為 
T sl sl sa sa la laU A A Aγ γ γ= + +           
其中 slA ， saA ， laA 分別表示固-液、固-氣、
液-氣之界面表面積，而 slγ 、 saγ 、 laγ 分別為
固-液、固-氣、液-氣之每單位表面積能量，
且由Young-Laplace equation可知，每單位表
面積能量 slγ 、 saγ 、 laγ 與接觸角 cθ 相關 
cossa sl la cγ γ γ θ= +             
故可將(3-12)代入(3-11)可得 
( ) cos
cos
T sl sa sa sl la c la la
o sl la c la la
U A A A A
U A A
γ γ θ γ
γ θ γ
= + − +
= − +       
其中 oU 為常數，因為 ( )sl saA A+ 為常數 
由於濕潤面積會隨注入微流道之液體體積 lV
的增加而改變，故總能量可以表示為與 lV 有
關之方程式，因此液體之壓力可表示為 
 
cos sl laT la c
l l l
dA dAdUP
dV dV dV
γ θ⎛ ⎞= = −⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠     
 
故當 90ocθ ≤ 時， sa slγ γ> ，且 laA 為定值，再
加上 slA 會隨流動之距離 x 而增加，所以會造
成流體之壓力P 為負而帶動液體流動，產生
所謂之毛細力（Capillary Force）。 
 如圖五所示在微流道中，若使液體由親
水性管壁流入疏水性管壁時，會造成流體之
壓力P 為由負轉正而使液體停止流動，產生
所謂之障壁壓力（pressure barrier）。因為接
觸角 cθ 由原本之親水性管壁 90ocθ ≤ 變為疏
水性管壁 90ocθ > 。若微流道之寬w遠大於高
h，則可將此由二維假設為一維問題。且液-
氣界面可看成一個角度為 2α 的圓弧(如下圖
所示)，因此總表面之能量 TU 以及液體體積
lV 可被簡化為 
* 2 cos
sinT o la c la
whU U xw αγ θ γα= − +     
2
( cos )
4sin sinl
h wV wxh α αα α= − −      
 
故可得在微流道內，任意位置x所產生之流體
壓力P [10],[11],[12] 
 
2 cosT la c
l
dU wP
dV h
γ θ−= =            
 
由上式可得 
(1) 當
2c philic
πθ θ= < ，使流體壓力P 為負壓
力，故不須額外施予壓力便可使液體在
微流道中流動，即毛細現象。 
(2) 當 philic c phobicθ θ θ≤ ≤ ，此時流體壓力P 將 
 
 6
的側向排氣孔排出（圖四(b)），此時，液體
會因為毛細管的作用力加上疏水表面的粗糙
度設計，造成左邊液面的接觸角度θL較右邊
液面的接觸角θR大，因此，造成左邊的壓力
PL一定大於右邊的壓力PR（圖四(c)）。 所
以，左邊的液體會流的較右邊快，而達到幫
浦使液體產生一個左往右流動的淨流量。 
 
3.3 疏水表面上粗糙梯度的設計 
 
微型電化學幫浦驅動機制主要藉由電解
氣泡的產生，再加上疏水表面的粗糙梯度設
計，使得左邊的液體會流的較右邊快，而達
到幫浦使液體產生一個左往右流動的淨流
量 。 在 此 ， 我 們 可 經 由 能 量 法 以 及
Laplace-Young 方程式估算，壓力和粗糙度因
子 Φx 的關係: 
[ ]
2SiOPDMS
la
L
cos)2()cos1()( θθφφγ whw
wh
PPP
xRxL
R
+−+−−−=
−=Δ  
其中 ΦxL 表示左邊液面於表面上的粗糙度因
子，ΦxR 表示右邊液面於表面上的粗糙度因
子，w 和 h 分別表示流道的寛和深。 
如圖五所示，壓力會隨粗糙度因子的增
加而增加，因此，在表面上利用微結構的設
計，造成粗糙度的梯度變化(如圖六所示)， 
 
 
 
圖五 壓力和粗糙度因子 Φx 的關係 
圖六 疏水表面上粗糙梯度設計的示意圖 
 粗糙梯度的設計 ( xφφ "1 ) 流道截面積 
Pump #1  0.1;  0.2;  0.3;  0.4;  0.5;  0.6 ;  0.7 ;  0.8 100μm *20μm 
Pump #2   0.1;  0.2;  0.3;  0.4;  0.5;  0.6 ;  0.7 ;  0.8 100μm *50μm 
Pump #3   0.2;  0.25;  0.3;  0.35;  0.4;  0.45;  0.5 100μm *20μm 
Pump #4  0.2;  0.25;  0.3;  0.35;  0.4;  0.45;  0.5 100μm *50μm 
表一 疏水表面上粗糙梯度的設計 
 8
此步驟使用第三道光罩(mask#3)，(圖八(e)
所示)。 
步驟五： 
在另一片矽晶圓上塗佈上SU8，經微影製程
後，以定義出疏水表面上的透氣孔結構，此
步驟使用第五道光罩(mask#4) (圖八(f))。 
步驟六： 
接著塗佈PDMS於此矽晶圓上，經由高温烘
烤，然後利用脫模方式，以製做出疏水性表
面， (圖八(g)所示)。 
步驟七： 
最後，以對準接合方式來將 PDMS 和矽晶圓
結合，以完成微型幫浦裝置。，(圖八(h)所
示)。 
 
3.5  實驗架構 
 
  為了達成本計畫所追求仿蓮葉效應之微
流體致動機制，從圖 的實驗儀器架設方式，
可以量測到幫浦的各項性能，如幫浦所能產
生的驅動壓力以及所能達到的流體驅動速
度，為了提高彷蓮葉效應微幫浦的準確性，
幫浦的訊號輸入是使用可程式化的 DAQ 
Card(PCI-6534,NI)以便產生規律的脈衝訊
號，並可以利用脈波調變的方式，控制輸入
訊號的責任週期以及頻寬，以便達到能控制
微幫浦所產生的速率。電力系統方面，採用
電源供應器(E3631A,Agilent)，作為可調控所
需的電壓源，並搭配高阻抗場效電晶體，將
DAQ Card 所產生的脈波訊號，經由所需設 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖九 實驗架設圖 
計的電路，將微小的脈波訊號透過場效電晶
體以及繼電器，將其放大到實驗所需要的範
圍。在光學量測方面，利用 CCD 影像擷取
系統記綠微流體致動時的過程。晶片的出入
口皆使用玻璃管黏著，再將矽膠軟管(1.5mm) 
套在玻璃管上，必需注意接縫中有無漏水的
情況會影響到幫浦的效應，再將出入口分別
接到兩個水平高度不等的燒杯中，而燒杯是
放置在可精準控制相對位置的平台上，並在
微幫浦的出口端加上壓力感測器(Lutron)解
析度可到 20Pa。 
 實驗的方式如圖 的設備架設示意圖所
表示，一開始將燒杯放置於同水平高的平台
上，並在燒杯中裝注入相同高度的水量，待
水穩定後給微幫浦電訊號，藉由 CCD 影像 
擷取透過電腦記錄的方式，可以觀察到混在
流體裡面微小粒子的流速，在實驗過程中，
分別使用兩種不同尺寸的微小粒子
(3~10um,10~30um,Polysciences,glass beads of 
2.48g/cm3)，搭配兩種不同流道高度的微幫浦
(20um,50um)，此微流幫浦所用的溶液導電度
與酸鹼值經由量測儀(EUTECH,PC510)得到
分別為 0.35~0.65mS/cm3 與 6.5。 
透過所記錄過粒子流動的軌跡計算平均的流
體速度，在此微幫浦是在開路的狀態，在忽
略背壓的影響之下，調變特定伏特以及脈衝
訊號，以達到最大的流速。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
 
解氣泡的速度愈快，進而在此條件下，可使
微型電化學幫浦操作在較高頻的控制電壓，
因為電化學的低耗能、低電壓的需求，且充
分利用毛細管作用力，故可達到低耗能循環
推進液體。因此，此一微型電化學幫浦的設
計非常適用於低耗能生物晶片上。 
 
 
圖十二微型電化學幫浦 pump#1 和 pump#2，
在不同施加電壓以及操作頻率下，幫浦所造
成的液體流速 
 
圖十三 微型甲醇燃料致動幫浦的流速與
壓力差實驗量測 
 
圖十四 微型電化學幫浦 pump#1 和 pump#2，
在不同施加電壓下，電解氣泡生成時間的量
測 
 
圖十五 微型電化學幫浦在不同排氣柱狀間
距下，液體的溢漏壓力量測 
 
然而，當電解時間過長時，電極容易被
生成氣泡以及酸性電解質腐蝕，已在實驗中
做過觀察，實際可運作時間受限於腐蝕情
況，為了使工作時間加長，經由調控偏壓狀
態可以達到目的，目前最常工作時間為 3 小
時。如上所述，我們設計的微型電化學幫浦
已成功的驗證其功能以及它的製程設計和實
驗量測。 
 
五. 計畫成果自評 
 
 兩 個 微 型 電 化 學 幫 浦 pump#1 和
pump#2，在不同的施加電壓 5V~13V 以及操
作頻率下，幫浦所產生的液體流速，在最佳
的情況下，pump#1 可得到最好的幫浦流速
大約 150nL/min 於操作頻率 10Hz。結果顯示
施加的電壓會造成電解氣泡的生成速度的快
慢，施加的電壓愈高，電解氣泡的速度愈快，
進而在此條件下，可使微型電化學幫浦操作
在較高頻的控制電壓，因為電化學的低耗
能、低電壓的需求，且充分利用毛細管作用
力，故可達到低耗能循環推進的應用。因此，
此一微型電化學幫浦的設計非常適用於微型
散熱或生醫晶片應用。我們設計的微型電化
學幫浦已成功的驗證其功能以及它的製程設
計。 
 
 透過本研究計畫執行從低耗能的致動幫
浦之設計開發、微機電製程製作、量測實驗
組裝與測試、單晶片 DSP 相關軟體撰寫、實
驗數據分析、微晶片系統動態參數取得、微
流體系統控制設計到系統規格提升，都有相
當不錯的成果。本計畫所完成的所有元件是
透過對製程上所遭遇的問題印證實作的差異
JOURNAL OF MICROELECTROMECHANICAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 16, NO. 5, OCTOBER 2007 1095
An Electrolysis-Bubble-Actuated Micropump
Based on the Roughness Gradient Design
of Hydrophobic Surface
Chih-Ming Cheng and Cheng-Hsien Liu, Member, IEEE, Member, ASME
Abstract—A novel electrolysis-bubble-actuated micropump
based on the roughness gradient design in the microchannel is
reported in this paper. This micropump is implemented by tak-
ing advantage of both the electrolysis actuation and the surface
tension effect. The surface tension effect is controlled via the
periodic generation of electrolytic bubbles and the roughness
gradient design of microchannel surface, which results in the
specified variation of liquid contact angle along the microchannel.
Our proposed micropump could resolve the disadvantages that
exist in the early reported micropumps, such as the complicated
time-sequence power control, the need of long nozzle-diffuser
structure, and the choking/sticking phenomena of electrolytic bub-
bles in a microchannel. Due to the features of large actuation
force, low-power consumption, and room temperature operation,
our micropump is suitable for the development of low-power
consumption and compact micropumps for various applications.
Experimental results show that the liquid displacement and the
pumping rate could be easily and accurately controlled by adjust-
ing the amplitude and frequency of the applied voltage. With the
applied voltage of 15 V at 4.5 Hz, a maximum pumping rate of
114 nl/min is achieved for one of our micropump designs with a
microchannel of 100 × 20 µm. In this paper, we report the theo-
retical analysis, design, micromachining process, operating prin-
ciples, characterization, and experimental demonstration of these
micropumps. [2006-0174]
Index Terms—Bubble, electrolysis, microelectromechanical sys-
tems (MEMS) micropump, roughness gradient, surface tension.
I. INTRODUCTION
MANY micropumps based on different designs and ac-tuation mechanisms have been demonstrated over the
past decade [1]. For example, diaphragm pumps actuated by
piezoelectric [2]–[4], electromagnetic [5], thermopneumatic
[6], and electrostatic [7] mechanisms have been developed to
achieve a high pumping volume through a large chamber. Most
of the fabrications of diaphragm-based pumps are complicated
because of the many photolithographic steps involved. Field-
driven micropumps such as electro-osmotic [8], [9] and electro-
Manuscript received August 31, 2006; revised April 14, 2007. This work was
supported in part by the National Science Council of Taiwan, R.O.C., under
Grant NSC-94-2218-E-007-013 and in part by the Nano-Technology Research
Program under Grant NSC-94-2120-M-009-015. Subject Editor A. Ricco.
The authors are with the Micro-Systems and Control Laboratory, Department
of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu
30013, Taiwan, R.O.C. (e-mail: liuch@pme.nthu.edu.tw).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JMEMS.2007.900880
hydrodynamic pumps [10] have also been proposed to drive the
fluid by applying a high voltage without the need of mechanical
moving parts. Among all actuation methods, bubble-actuated
valveless micropumps show the features of simple operation,
miniaturized size, large actuation force, and the ability to be
conformed physically to different designs of microchannels
with a wide range of cross sections. Both thermal and elec-
trolytic bubbles have been demonstrated with the function of
microfluidic actuation. The thermal-bubble-actuated microp-
umps have been developed with different mechanisms such as
the traversing multiple bubbles [11], the nozzle-diffuser struc-
ture [12], and the periodic generation of a single vapor bubble
relying on surface tension [13], [14] to achieve the net pumping
flow. However, the thermal generation of bubbles is a high-
power consumption method because of the dramatic heat loss
in microscale [12], [15]. The high-temperature process might
also damage the targeted biosample for biochip applications.
Compared with other actuation mechanisms, the electrolysis
bubble actuator has the features of simple structure, large
actuation force, low-power consumption, room temperature
operation, and being easy to be integrated into a lab chip.
The electrolytic bubbles have been used as actuators in var-
ious designs of microvalves and micropumps. For example,
a microinjector is reported by using the electrolytic bubbles,
which raises the liquid pressure to push the liquid forward, and
the bubble is then expelled with the liquid [16]. Micropumps
actuated by electrolytic bubbles are reported and based on
inflating a large bubble inside a reservoir, which generates a
pressure head in the fluid channel during the bubble growth
[17], [18]. The electrolytically actuated micropump by means
of sequentially generating a series of electrolytic bubbles inside
a microchannel has also been reported [19]. However, there are
some disadvantages for the above pumping mechanisms, such
as the complicated time-sequence power control on many pairs
of electrodes, the need of large/long nozzle-diffuser structure,
and the requirements of the degassing function and the well-
sealed reservoir inside the fluidic chip.
The utilization of surface tension force promises a powerful
actuation mechanism for microfluidic systems because of the
large force compared to the other forces in microscale. In our
micropump design, the pumping principle relies on the control
of the surface tension effect that is initiated via electrolysis bub-
ble generation and tuned via the roughness gradient design of
hydrophobic surface in the microchannel. Although the similar
surface tension effect is used in our development, the operation
1057-7157/$25.00 © 2007 IEEE
CHENG AND LIU: ELECTROLYSIS-BUBBLE-ACTUATED MICROPUMP BASED ON THE ROUGHNESS GRADIENT DESIGN 1097
of our micropump in one pumping cycle from the side view
of the micropump. The actuation mechanism in one pumping
cycle could be roughly divided into three processes: 1) bubble
generation; 2) degassing; and 3) liquid movement. First, the
bubble is generated by the voltage applied on the electrodes to
push the liquid both forward and backward in the microchannel,
as shown in Fig. 1(b). In the process of bubble generation,
there is no net pumping flow. Next, the bubble vents out of
the microchannel through the hydrophobic lateral breather to
the ambient air when the liquid between the two platinum
electrodes turns into electrolytic bubble completely, as shown
in Fig. 1(c). Due to our roughness gradient design, the apparent
contact angle on the leading meniscus is larger than that on
the trailing meniscus, i.e., θr,R > θr,L > 90◦. Therefore, the
pressure on the trailing meniscus of the liquid PL is larger
than the pressure on the leading meniscus of the liquid PR
according to the Laplace–Young’s equation [16]. Finally, both
liquid meniscuses flow back with different velocities to fill in
the empty section by the capillary forces during the degassing
process, as shown in Fig. 1(d). As a result, one pumping cycle
is completed, and a net pumping flow along the x-direction is
achieved. The net pumping flow can be achieved over multiple
electrolysis bubble actuation cycles in the microchannel. The
net volume displacement of liquid and the pumping rate are
dominated by the geometry design of the microchannel, the
design of the roughness gradient surface, the frequency and am-
plitude of the applied voltage, and the design of the electrodes.
All details will be described with the experimental results later
in this paper.
B. Microfabrication
The result of the microfabrication process for our micropump
is illustrated in Fig. 1(a). First, a standard p-type 〈100〉 silicon
substrate is grown with the thermal oxide of 6000 Å that is
lithographically patterned and etched later as the oxide mask.
Then, the substrate is etched by the wet etching process in
KOH solution to define the microchannel. This silicon substrate
is then grown with another 8000 Å thermal oxide to form the
hydrophilic layer on top of the microchannel substrate. Then, a
200 Å/1500 Å titanium/platinum electrode layer is evaporated
and patterned as the electrodes by a liftoff process. Next, Teflon
AF (Amorphous Fluoropolymer, 1%, Dupont) is spin coated on
the wafer and cured at 180 ◦C for 6 h in a high-temperature
oven. The Teflon film is lithographically patterned and etched
as hydrophobic regions by the O2 plasma process to serve as
the bottom part of the hydrophobic lateral breather. The top
PDMS cover with the roughness gradient structure is fabricated
by using a mold that is fabricated on another silicon wafer
with the negative-tone UV photoresist (MicroChem Corpora-
tion, SU-8 35). In this process, a curing agent and a PDMS
prepolymer (Sylgard 184 Silicone Elastomer Kit) are mixed in
a 1 : 10 weight ratio and stirred to ensure complete mixing. The
prepolymer mixture is degassed in a vacuum oven for removing
air bubbles. Then, the prepolymer mixture is poured onto the
mold and cured at 65 ◦C for 1 h in the oven. After curing, the
PDMS is peeled off from the mold. Finally, the top PDMS cover
is bonded onto the top of the silicon wafer.
Fig. 2. Droplet on the surface forms: (a) the complete wetting and (b) the
composite wetting based on the hydrophilic and the hydrophobic properties of
substrate surfaces, respectively.
III. THEORETICAL ANALYSIS AND MODELING
A. Roughness Gradient Design of Hydrophobic Surface
The contact angle has been commonly used to represent
surface wettability. Surface wettability is a function of sur-
face roughness. The latest experimental results confirm that
wettability can be tuned by surface roughness [25], [26]. The
earliest literatures reported that the contact angle of a droplet
on a rough surface could be predicted by two main theories
relating the surface structure to the apparent contact angle. The
first theory was proposed by Wenzel [27], which assumes that
the liquid completely wets the solid structure, as illustrated in
Fig. 2(a). The second theory was proposed by Cassie and Baxter
[28], which assumes that the liquid does not wet the valleys
of the structure and forms a composite surface on the rough
substrate, as illustrated in Fig. 2(b). Afterwards, Bico et al. [26]
fabricated the substrates with specific roughness and compared
the measured contact angles with the prediction results. They
claimed good agreement and proposed that Wenzel’s formula is
valid for the hydrophilic surface and that Cassie and Baxter’s
formula is valid for the hydrophobic surface.
Shastry et al., who first utilized the roughness gradient struc-
ture to move the droplet, have also recently presented a model
for the forces acting on the droplet resting on a roughness-
controlled contact angle gradient [29]. A regular 2-D array of
square pillars creates the rough surface with the controlled
roughness parameters φ and r, which are defined by the dimen-
sion of square pillars (a× a), the pillar spacing (b), and the
pillar height (c), i.e.,
φ =
a2
(a+ b)2
(1)
r =
4bc+ (a+ b)2
(a+ b)2
(2)
where φ is the surface area fraction, and r is the roughness
ratio of the planar surface. The parameter φ determines the
apparent contact angle on a composite surface based on Cassie
and Baxter’s formula. r mainly correlates the relative stability
of a droplet in the composite state. The stability of a droplet in
the composite state depends on the design of the parameters φ
and r, which will be discussed later.
The structural design of the surface roughness gradient in
our device is illustrated in Fig. 3. The surface roughness is
dominated by φ, which varies with the pillar patterns on the
PDMS cover. For our roughness gradient design, φ decreases
CHENG AND LIU: ELECTROLYSIS-BUBBLE-ACTUATED MICROPUMP BASED ON THE ROUGHNESS GRADIENT DESIGN 1099
First, while the electrolytic bubble grows, the electrolytic bub-
ble pressure Pb, as illustrated in Fig. 1(b), is modeled according
to Faraday’s law of electrolysis and the ideal gas law as
Pb =
NRT
V
=
IRTt
zFV
. (10)
While the electrolytic bubble is venting, the meniscuses of the
moving liquid are driven based on the surface tension effect.
A schematic illustration for the driving mechanism of our
proposed micropump is shown in Fig. 1(d). In the general case,
one of the meniscuses of the liquid moves a forward displace-
ment dx starting from the position x in the microchannel, on
which the pressure could be modeled by using the total surface
energy approach [16], [33]. The effect of gravity is neglected
because of the shallow microchannel in our device. The surface
energies are related to the equilibrium contact angle governed
by Laplace–Young’s equation
γsa = γsl + γla cos θr (11)
where θr is the apparent contact angle, and γsl, γsa, and γla
are the surface energies per unit area of solid–liquid, solid–air,
and liquid–air, respectively. The differential interfacial energy
of the system dUT could be derived as
dUT = γsldAsl + γsadAsa + γladAla
=(γsl − γsa)dAsl + γladAla
= γla(−cos θrdAsl + dAla) (12)
where Asl, Asa, and Ala are the interface areas of solid–liquid,
solid–air, and liquid–air, respectively. The second equality in
(12) is derived based on dAsa = −dAsl because the summation
of Asl and Asa is a constant.
In our prototype device, micromachined PDMS pillars on top
of the microchannel are employed to control the roughness of
the hydrophobic surface. The bottom surface of the microchan-
nel is coated with a hydrophilic layer of silicon. Thus, the
differential interfacial energy on the trailing meniscus of the
liquid could be modeled as
dUT = dUcover + dUmicrochannel
=
[
γla(−cos θr,i(PDMS)dAsl + dAla)
]
PDMS
+
[
γla(−cos θr(SiO2)dAsl + dAla)
]
SiO2
= γla [−wφi cos θPDMS + w(1− φi)] dx
+ γla [−(2h+ w) cos θSiO2 ] dx
= γla [−wφi cos θPDMS + w(1− φi)
− (2h+ w) cos θSiO2 ] dx (13)
where dUcover and dUmicrochannel are the differential interfacial
energies related to the top cover and the bottom microchannel
substrate, respectively. θr,i(PDMS) is the apparent contact angle
of liquid in region i on the PDMS side. θi(SiO2) is the apparent
contact angle of liquid on the thermal oxide film. θPDMS and
θSiO2 are the equilibrium contact angles of the liquid drop on
the PDMS film and on the thermal oxide film, respectively.
h and w are the depth and width of the microchannel, respec-
Fig. 4. Relationship between pressure and surface area fraction θ for different
microchannel depths (10, 20, and 50 µm). The microchannel width is fixed to
be 100 µm in all these calculations.
tively. To simplify the equation derivation, the microchannel
width is assumed to be the average width of the nonorthogonal
microchannel, which results from the wet etching process. The
shapes of meniscuses are also assumed to be constant curves.
All the contact angles are assumed to be equilibrium contact
angles neglecting the contact angle hysteresis. The pressure PL
on the trailing meniscus of the liquid moving in region i could
be derived as [33]
PL = −dUT
dV¯
= −γla
wh
[−wφi,L(1 + cos θPDMS)
+ w − (2h+ w) cos θSiO2 ] . (14)
The pressure PR on the leading meniscus of the liquid moving
in region j could be obtained via a similar derivation
PR=− γla
wh
[−wφj,R(1+cos θPDMS)+w−(2h+w) cos θSiO2 ]
(15)
where V is the liquid volume. PL and PR depend on the contact
angles θPDMS and θSiO2, the geometry of the microchannel, and
the surface area fractions φi,L and φj,R. Here, φi,L and φj,R
are the surface area fractions in the roughness pattern region i
and j, where the trailing and leading meniscuses of the liquid
move in, respectively. The pressure difference between these
two meniscuses, which affects the liquid displacement, could
be derived as
∆P =PL − PR
=− γla
wh
[−wφj,L(1+cos θPDMS)+wφj,R(1+cos θPDMS)]
=
γla
h
(φi,L − φj,R) [1 + cos θPDMS] . (16)
In our calculations, different microchannel depths (10, 20,
and 50 µm) and the same microchannel width of 100 µm
are assumed and used. Under the assumption of θSiO2 = 20◦,
θPDMS = 110◦, and γla = 72 dyn cm−1, the relationship be-
tween pressure and surface area fraction φ is derived and shown
in Fig. 4 based on (14) and (15). The positive sign of the
pressure means a forward pulling pressure. The calculation
results shown in Fig. 4 provide us the information of pressure
distribution versus different roughness gradient surfaces for
CHENG AND LIU: ELECTROLYSIS-BUBBLE-ACTUATED MICROPUMP BASED ON THE ROUGHNESS GRADIENT DESIGN 1101
with a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera is utilized to
observe and record the pumping process of our micropumps.
The open-loop micropump is fabricated for performance char-
acterization. Two glass tubes are attached to the through-holes
at the inlet and outlet of this micropump. The inlet and outlet
are connected to two beakers via soft tubes of 1.5-mm diameter.
The beaker connected to the outlet could be accurately raised
by a high-precision stage. Pressure transducers (Lutron) with a
resolution of 20 Pa are used to monitor the pressures.
The pumping pressure and the flow rate are characterized
via the setup shown in Fig. 5. After the liquid of the beaker
connected to outlet tube is raised to the same height as the
inlet meniscus and stabilizes, the driving voltage is applied
to start the pumping function. The meniscuses movement and
the bubble generation/degassing during the whole process are
recorded by a digital video system. For the flow rate char-
acterization, two kinds of particles with different diameters
of 3 ∼ 10 µm and 10 ∼ 30 µm (Polysciences, glass beads of
2.48 g/cm3) are, respectively, mixed with water that are used
as the pumping liquid for two different micropumps with the
microchannel depths of 20 and 50 µm. The conductivity and
the pH value of pumping water are characterized as 0.35 ∼
0.65 mS/cm and 6.5, respectively, by using the conductivity/pH
meter (EUTECH, PC510). By tracing the particles during a
time period, the flow rate is calculated based on the average
speed of the moving particles. The pumping flow rates of the
micropumps are measured in open microchannels (i.e., negligi-
ble back pressure) and characterized via applying the square-
wave voltages of the specific voltage frequency and duty ratio.
To approach the maximum flow rates, the expansion periods
and the venting periods are also characterized via the recorded
images under different applied voltages.
For the characterization of the pressure head, the beaker
connected to the outlet is lifted to adjust the pressure head. In
these measurements, the pumping rates are recorded with the
change of pressure head, which is monitored via the pressure
meter. The maximum pressure head is recorded when the
liquid stops flowing forward and starts flowing backward. In
addition, the leakage pressure is characterized by sealing one
of two inlet/outlet ports. The leakage pressure is recorded via
observing the phenomenon that the liquid wets the breathing
hole of the lateral breather during the lifting process of the
beaker connected to the outlet.
For contact angle measurements, a small-volume drop of
water (∼5 µL) is gently placed on the experimental surface.
A photograph of the side profile of the liquid drop is taken by
using a CCD camera with adjustable optical focus lens. The
radius of the spherical cap is measured by processing the side-
view image to obtain the free surface of the spherical cap. Then,
we fit it with a circle to get the radius of the spherical droplet.
The equilibrium contact angle θ is calculated from the radius of
the fitting circle R and the height of the droplet H by using the
formula θ = cos−1((R−H)/R).
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Fig. 6(a) shows a prototype device that has two micropumps
with different roughness gradient design on a chip, which is
Fig. 6. Experimental demonstration for the pumping function of our micro-
pump. (a) Prototype device with two micropumps on a chip, which is made
of the PDMS cover (15 mm× 11 mm× 3 mm) and the silicon substrate
(15 mm× 15 mm× 0.5 mm). The time-sequential pictures captured from the
top view of the micropump show the processes of pumping flow in one pumping
cycle including (b) bubble generation, (c) degassing, (d) liquid movement, and
(e) net pumping flow after the electrolytic bubble is degassed completely. The
cross section of microchannel is 100 µm× 20 µm.
made of the PDMS cover (15 mm × 11 mm × 3 mm) and
the silicon substrate (15 mm × 15 mm × 0.5 mm). Table I
summarizes the distribution of surface area fraction (φi) for
our prototype micropumps with four different structure designs.
The microchannel width w is fixed to be 100 µm for all these
micropumps. The micropumps are operated under the condition
of open microchannels for pumping characterization. The time-
sequential pictures, which are captured from the top view of
the micropump, in one pumping cycle for micropump#1 are
recorded as shown in Fig. 6(b) and (e). After the microchan-
nel is filled with the sample liquid, the electrolytic bubble
is generated in the active region by applying an alternating
electric current to the platinum electrodes. The liquid is then
CHENG AND LIU: ELECTROLYSIS-BUBBLE-ACTUATED MICROPUMP BASED ON THE ROUGHNESS GRADIENT DESIGN 1103
Fig. 9. Net pumping displacement of liquid in one pumping cycle versus the
calculated maximum pressure difference for the four types of micropumps. The
designs and specifications for the four types of micropumps with different mi-
crochannel depths and surface roughness gradients are summarized in Table I.
C. Pressure and Flow Rate Testing
According to (14)–(17) and the theoretical derivation in
Fig. 4, the maximum pressure difference is dominated by the
roughness gradient design and the microchannel depth. Four
types of micropumps with the designs of different roughness
gradients (ΦA and ΦB) and different microchannel depths
(20 and 50 µm) as summarized in Table I are used to evaluate
the performance of our proposed micropumps. Fig. 9 shows the
relationship between the calculated maximum pressure differ-
ence and the net pumping displacement of liquid in one pump-
ing cycle for these four types of micropumps. Compared with
other prototype micropumps, micropump#2 with the largest
maximum pressure difference pumps the liquid to achieve the
largest displacement in one pumping cycle. The large maximum
pressure difference is achieved by the design of the shallow
microchannel depth and the large surface roughness gradient.
Here, the pumping displacement of the liquid is characterized
via measuring the average displacement of the moving particles
under the initial condition of zero flow. The data for the pressure
difference shown in Fig. 9 are derived theoretically based on
(14)–(17) and Fig. 4. The error bars shown in Fig. 9 result from
the particle displacement variation among ten measurements for
each pressure difference design.
For the characterization of the maximum volume flow rate,
micropump#2 and micropump#4 with the same design of large
surface roughness gradient (ΦB) and different microchannel
depths (20 and 50 µm) are used to observe the effect of
microchannel depths. To approach the optimal pumping rates
under different applied voltages, the expansion period and the
venting period in one pumping cycle are characterized first.
Fig. 10 shows the expansion period of the electrolysis bubble
to fill the roughness gradient region in the microchannel under
different applied voltages (7, 9, 11, 13, and 15 V). The curves
are obtained by simple linear fitting among the measured data.
The characterized venting periods are approximately 100 and
150 ms for micropump#2 and micropump#4, respectively.
Based on the characterization results of the expansion period
texpand and the venting period tvent, the operation frequency f
and the duty ratio d of the applied voltage could be optimized to
enhance the flow rate of micropumps. Fig. 11 shows the charac-
terization results for these enhanced flow rates of micropump#2
Fig. 10. Expansion period of the electrolysis bubble texpand to fill the
roughness gradient region in the microchannel versus the applied voltage for
micropump#2 and micropump#4.
Fig. 11. Experimental results for the enhanced pumping volume flow rate
versus the operation frequency under different amplitudes of applied voltages
(7, 9, 11, 13, and 15 V).
and micropump#4. The data are approximated via the curve
fitting of two second-order polynomial functions. The error bars
shown in Fig. 11 result from the flow rate variation among ten
measurements. The applied voltage signals are regulated by
the operation frequency and duty ratio, which are calculated
via (18) and (19). The optimal frequency of applied voltage
with respect to the pumping flow rate is dominated by the
expansion period and the venting period of electrolysis bubble.
With the applied voltage of 15 V at 4.5 Hz, a maximum
pumping rate of 114 nl/min is achieved for our micropump#2
that has a microchannel cross section of 100 µm × 20 µm.
These results indicate that the flow rate in our micropumps
could be simply regulated by adjusting the voltage pulses to
approach the appropriate flow rate in the microfluidic chip.
The characterized relationship between flow rate and pres-
sure head is shown in Fig. 12. The flow rate is observed in the
presence of different elevations between the inlet and the outlet
to generate a pressure difference. The characterized data shown
in Fig. 12 for micropump#2 and micropump#4 are measured
under the applied voltages of 15 V at 4.5 and 2.5 Hz, respec-
tively. When the flow rates decay to zero, the pressure heads
are characterized as 1.9 and 0.8 kPa for micropump#2 and
micropump#4, respectively. When the pressure head is close
to zero, the maximum flow rates, which are 114 and 95 nl/min
for micropump#2 and micropump#4, respectively, are achieved.
Besides, the power consumption Pw and the thermodynamic ef-
ficiency η are also important parameters. The maximum power
CHENG AND LIU: ELECTROLYSIS-BUBBLE-ACTUATED MICROPUMP BASED ON THE ROUGHNESS GRADIENT DESIGN 1105
[12] J. H. Tsai and L. Lin, “A thermal-bubble-actuated micronozzle-diffuser
pump,” J. Microelectromech. Syst., vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 665–671,
Dec. 2002.
[13] X. Geng, H. Yuan, H. N. Oguz, and A. Prosperetti, “Bubble-based mi-
cropump for electrically conducting liquids,” J. Micromech. Microeng.,
vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 270–276, 2001.
[14] Z. Yin and A. Prosperetti, “A microfluidic ‘blinking bubble’ pump,”
J. Micromech. Microeng., vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 643–651, Mar. 2005.
[15] J. H. Tsai and L. W. Lin, “Transient thermal bubble formation on polysil-
icon micro-resisters,” J. Heat Transfer, vol. 124, no. 2, pp. 375–382,
Apr. 2002.
[16] P. F. Man, C. H. Mastrangelo, M. A. Burns, and D. T. Burke, “Microfab-
ricated capillarity-driven stop valve and sample injector,” in Proc. IEEE
MEMS Workshop, 1998, pp. 45–50.
[17] S. Böhm, B. Timmer, W. Olthuis, and P. Bergveld, “A closed-loop con-
trolled electrochemically actuated micro-dosing system,” J. Micromech.
Microeng., vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 498–504, 2000.
[18] A. A. Deshmukh, D. Liepmann, and A. P. Pisano, “Characterization of a
micro-mixing, pumping, and valving system,” in Proc. Solid-State Sens.
Actuators (Transducers), Munich, Germany, 2001, pp. 950–953.
[19] D. A. Ateya, A. A. Shah, and S. Z. Hua, “An electrolytically actuated
micropump,” Rev. Sci. Instrum., vol. 75, no. 4, pp. 915–920, Apr. 2004.
[20] D. S. Meng and C. J. Kim, “Micropumping by directional growth and
hydrophobic venting of bubbles,” in Proc. IEEE MEMS Workshop, 2005,
pp. 423–426.
[21] M. M. Maharbiz, W. J. Holtz, S. Sharifzadeh, J. D. Keasling, and
R. T. Howe, “A microfabricated electrochemical oxygen generator for
high-density cell culture arrays,” J. Microelectromech. Syst., vol. 12, no. 5,
pp. 590–599, Oct. 2003.
[22] K.-S. Yun, I. J. Cho, J. U. Bu, C. J. Kim, and E. Yoon, “A surface-
tension driven micropump for low-voltage and low-power operations,”
J. Microelectromech. Syst., vol. 11, no. 5, pp. 454–461, Oct. 2002.
[23] A. Shastry, M. Case, and K. F. Böhringer, “Engineering surface texture
to manipulate droplets in microfluidic systems,” in Proc. IEEE MEMS
Workshop, 2005, pp. 694–697.
[24] J. Lee, B. He, and N. A. Patankar, “A roughness-based wettability
switching membrane device for hydrophobic surfaces,” J. Micromech.
Microeng., vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 591–600, Mar. 2005.
[25] S. Shibuichi, T. Onda, N. Satoh, and K. Tsujii, “Super water-repellent
surfaces resulting from fractal structure,” J. Phys. Chem., vol. 100, no. 50,
pp. 19 512–19 517, 1996.
[26] J. Bico, C. Marzolin, and D. Quéré, “Pearl drops,” Europhys. Lett., vol. 47,
no. 2, pp. 220–226, 1999.
[27] R. N. Wenzel, “Surface roughness and contact angle,” J. Phys. Colloid
Chem., vol. 53, no. 9, pp. 1466–1467, 1949.
[28] A. B. D. Cassie and S. Baxter, “Wettability of porous surfaces,” Trans.
Faraday Soc., vol. 40, pp. 546–551, 1944.
[29] A. Shastry, M. J. Case, and K. F. Böhringer, “Directing droplets using
micro-structured surfaces,” Langmuir, vol. 22, no. 14, pp. 6161–6167,
Jul. 2006.
[30] N. J. Shirtcliffe, S. Aqil, C. Evans, G. McHale, M. I. Newton,
C. C. Perry, and P. Roach, “The use of high aspect ratio photoresist
(SU-8) for super-hydrophobic pattern prototyping,” J. Micromech. Micro-
eng., vol. 14, no. 10, pp. 1384–1389, Oct. 2004.
[31] C. G. Cameron and M. S. Freund, “Reversible and efficient materials-
based actuation by electrolytic phase transformation,” Chem. Eng.
Technol., vol. 26, no. 9, pp. 1007–1011, Sep. 2003.
[32] S. Böhm, W. Olthuis, and P. Bergveld, “An integrated micromachined
electrochemical pump and dosing system,” J. Biomed. Microdev., vol. 1,
no. 2, pp. 121–130, Dec. 1999.
[33] J. Lee, H. Moon, J. Fowler, T. Schoellhammer, and C.-J. Kim, “Electro-
wetting and electrowetting-on-dielectric for microscale liquid handling,”
Sens. Actuators A, Phys., vol. 95, no. 2/3, pp. 259–268, Jan. 2002.
[34] L. Gao and T. J. McCarthy, “Artificial lotus leaf,” Langmuir, vol. 22,
no. 14, pp. 5998–6000, Jul. 2006.
[35] A. Shastry, A. Epilepsia, M. J. Case, S. Abbasi, and K. F. Böhringer,
“Bounds on contact angle hysteresis of textured super-hydrophobic sur-
faces,” in Proc. MicroTAS, 2006, pp. 122–124.
[36] D.-S. Meng, T. Cubaud, C.-M. Ho, and C.-J. Kim, “A membrane
breather for micro fuel cell with high concentration methanol,” in Proc.
Hilton Head: A Solid State Sensor, Actuator Microsyst. Workshop, 2004,
pp. 141–144.
[37] J. P. Hoare, “Some effects of alternating current polarization on the surface
of noble metal electrodes,” Electrochim. Acta, vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 599–605,
1964.
Chih-Ming Cheng received the B.S. degree in me-
chanical engineering from National Taiwan Uni-
versity of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan,
R.O.C., in 1998, and the M.S. degree in mechanical
engineering from Taiwan University, Taipei, in 2000.
He is currently working toward the Ph.D. degree at
National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan.
He is currently with the Micro-Systems and Con-
trol Laboratory, National Tsing Hua University,
where he focuses on the development of microfluidic
switches for bio-analytical devices and micropumps
for micro direct methanol fuel cell (DMFC) applications.
Cheng-Hsien Liu (M’02) received the B.S. de-
gree in power mechanical engineering from National
Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C., in
1987, the M.S. degree in mechanical engineering
from Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, in 1992,
and the M.S. degree in electrical engineering and
the Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering from
Stanford University, Stanford, CA, in 1995 and 2000,
respectively.
While at Stanford, he worked with Dr. Kenny at
the Stanford Microstructures and Sensors Laboratory
and focused his Ph.D. work on high-performance tunneling MEMS sensors.
In 1999–2000, he was a Senior Electrical Engineer at Halo Data Devices
Inc., San Jose, CA, where he focused on the development of microdrives
for portable information storage applications. Since Autumn 2000, he has
been with National Tsing Hua University, where he is currently an Associate
Professor in the Power Mechanical Engineering Department. He also serves as
the Department Vice Chair and the Division Head of the Control Division. He
currently oversees graduate students in the Micro-Systems and Control Labora-
tory, whose research activities cover a variety of areas such as biomimetic array
chip for bio-object manipulation targeting for tissue engineering/drug screening
applications, liver Labchip, advanced tunable MEMS grating, and microsystem
robust control.
over a period of several seconds depending on the pH value of
the liquid and applied current. If the gas molecules produced by
electrolysis reach a sufﬁcient concentration, bubble nucleation
will occur on the electrode and block the channels. Hence, an
optimal operation frequency of maximum velocity should be
shifted to a higher value to overcome bubble nucleation. Besides
the AC EOF micropumps described above,8–10 other types of
EOF micropumps have also been proposed based on reducing
the driving potential or time to make pumping liquid exposure
to strong electric ﬁelds to suppress the electrolytic bubbles.13,14
However, these micropumps cannot effectively prevent the
electrolytic bubbles from occurring, even at a low applied ac
potential for a long operational period.
In this paper, we focus on the development of a bubble-
free ac electrokinetic microﬂuidic driver via the asymmetrically
capacitance-modulated microelectrode arrays. Asymmetric ca-
pacitance modulation (ACM) design can enhance the desired
tangential electric ﬁeld to control the local ﬂuid and drive the
micro-objects. Capacitance modulation is achieved by deposit-
ing an SiO2 dielectric layer onto the aluminium microelectrode
arrays, and it helps to decrease the electrolytic bubble generation.
Experimental results successfully demonstrate the concept of
our proposed novel bubble-free ac electrokinetic microﬂuidic
driver. The equivalent circuit model is exploited to explain
the pumping mechanism. With our proposed designs, this
bubble-free ac electrokinetic microﬂuidic driver can be precisely
integrated with other microﬂuidic components on a monolithic
chip, leading to the large feasibility and functionality for a lab-
on-a-chip approach.
Principle, design and simulaton
ac electro-osmosis ﬂow
Recent work has shown that the application of an ac potential
to a pair of co-planar microelectrodes generates a steady ﬂuid
ﬂow with a velocity depending on both applied potential and
frequency.8–10 The phenomenon is called ac electro-osmosis ﬂow
(AC EOF), which is mentioned in the previous paragraph. The
driving force is the Coulomb force which is induced by the
tangential component of electric ﬁeld exerting on the induced
charges. Therefore, the EOF velocity can be written as
(1)
where kD is the Debye length, qDL is the charge per unit area
of induced charges in the double layer, Et is the tangential
component of electric ﬁeld and g is the viscosity of the liquid.
While the suspending liquid is homotypic, having the same
Debye length, charge density and viscosity, the EOF velocity
can be simpliﬁed as
(2)
By applying ac potential to the co-planar microelectrodes, the
time-averaged AC EOF velocity using a simple circuit model is
given by15,16
(3)
with the non-dimensional frequency X given by
(4)
Here, eL is the permittivity of the liquid, W0 is the magnitude
of the applied potential, r is the characteristic length of the
electrodes, x is the applied ac frequency, C is the surface
capacitance of the double layer, and r is the conductivity of
the liquid. The capacitance C is given by KCEDL, where CEDL
is the surface capacitance of the electric double layer (EDL).
The parameter K is a constant which accounts for the ratio
of voltage drop across the EDL to total voltage drop across the
electric double layer and the dielectric layer. Thus, the parameter
K is then given by Cdie/(Cdie + CEDL), where Cdie is the surface
capacitanceof thedielectric layer. If nodielectric layermodulates
the electrodes, the parameter K will approximate 1. A bell-
shaped proﬁle for the frequency-dependent velocity is given by
eqn (3). The velocity approximates zero at both high and low
frequency limits, and it has a maximum value at an intermediate
characteristic frequency. When a potential difference is applied
on the electrodes, an electrolysis reaction takes place and causes
bubble nucleation on the electrodes once sufﬁcient concentration
of gas molecules is reached. This phenomenon usually lasts over
a period of several seconds depending on pH value of liquid and
magnitude of applied current. If the current passed through the
electrodes is reversed within the time period, the reaction can
thus be prevented. In other words, a high-frequency ac applied
potential canprevent the electrolytic gas bubble fromgeneration.
Depositing dielectric layers onto the electrode surfaces can be
utilized to shift the optimal operation frequency of maximum
AC EOF velocity to a higher value.17 Based on the consid-
eration addressed above, the generation of AC EOF where
the asymmetry is introduced via the anisotropic shape of the
electrode has been presented.8–10 In this paper, it is demonstrated,
for the ﬁrst time, that the asymmetric capacitance-modulated
microelectrode array has successfully given rise to a net ﬂuidic
ﬂow. Through our proposed ACM design, not only can the
optimal frequency of maximum velocity be shifted, but the
tangential electric ﬁeld can also be enhanced to increase the
efﬁciency of the microﬂuidic driver.
Design concept and operational principle
In order to approach the low-voltage and bubble-free microp-
umping, we take the advantage of an ACEOF force to construct
a micro-ﬂuidic or micro-object pumping device. The schematic
diagram and chip design are illustrated as shown in Fig. 2. The
micropumping chip is composed of planar electrodes fabricated
on a silicon substrate. These interdigital planar electrodes
are also called “comb electrode arrays” in this paragraph.
Fig. 2(b) shows a cross-sectional view of one pair of comb
electrodes. The width of electrode is 100 lmand the gap between
adjacent electrodes is 50 lm. A half of the electrode surface
is coated with dielectric layer, which is called “asymmetrical
capacitance/chemistry modulation” (ACM). This modulation
can enhance the device performance by increasing the AC EOF
force. This effect results from the enhancement of the electric
ﬁeld due to the fact that ACM can not only enhance but also
provide local maximum tangents of electric ﬁelds to drive the
ﬂuids via the AC EOF force. By employing carefully designed
726 | Lab Chip, 2008, 8, 725–733 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
layer near the surfaces of the positive/negative electrodes and
dielectric layers. Compared to Fig. 3(a), Fig. 3(b) shows an
equivalent circuitmodelwith capacitancemodulation. TheEDL
and dielectric layer are electrically equivalent to two capacitors,
while the ﬂuid bulk is equivalent to a resistor. The voltage
drop across the equivalent capacitor is a function of position
on the electrode. This variation will give rise to a tangential
electric ﬁeld above the EDL. For our proposed ACM design,
the apparent voltage drop across the modulated capacitor CR is
larger than that across the un-modulated capacitorCL, i.e.,VR>
VL. Consequently, the tangential electric ﬁeld above the EDL
on the modulated electrode (Et,R) is larger than the tangential
electric ﬁeld above the EDLon the un-modulated electrode (Et,L)
according toEt = −∇V , whereV is the voltage drop. The charge
density in the EDL on modulated and un-modulated electrodes
is the same due to the same voltage drop across the capacitor
CEDL. Since the EOF velocity depends on the interaction
between tangential electric ﬁeld and induced charge density, the
instantaneous ﬂuid velocity on the modulated electrode is larger
than that on the un-modulated electrode as shown in Fig. 3(c).
In this way, it is implied from the asymmetry of capacitance
modulation on the electrode array that the time average of the
resulting ﬂuid ﬂow is biased in a particular direction.
The frequency-dependent pumping velocity can be explained
by the equivalent circuit model as shown in Fig. 3(b). At low
applied ac frequencies, the capacitors behave like open circuit
and the electric ﬁeld in the ﬂuid bulk approximates zero. At
high frequencies, the capacitors are shorted and whole voltage
drop is almost entirely across the ﬂuid bulk to make a few
induced charges. In this way, the pumping velocity approximates
zero at both low and high frequencies. The characteristic
frequency of maximum EOF velocity can be estimated by the
equivalent resistance–capacitance (RC) relaxation frequency of
the microﬂuidic driver. The RC relaxation frequency after ACM
will be larger than that before capacitance Cdie modulation.
Hence, the characteristic frequency of our microﬂuidic driver
may be tuned to a higher frequency. In other words, the
electrolytic bubble due to shifted operation frequency of our
microﬂuidic driver can thus be prevented.
The net ﬂuid ﬂow is dominated by the amplitude of applied
potential, concentration of ﬂuid bulk, and thickness of dielectric
layer. All related details with experimental results will be
described and explained later in this paper.
Numerical simulations
For the feasibility veriﬁcation of proposed design concept, the
computational ﬂuid dynamics software package, CFD-ACE+
(CFDResearchCorp.,Huntsville,AL), is utilized to simulate the
steady-state electric ﬁeld, which dominates the ﬁeld-enhanced
AC EOF force used in this paper.
Fig. 4(a) and (b) show the simulated results of both tangential
electric ﬁeld and ﬂuid ﬁeld for micropumping electrodes. The
operated ac potential is set up as 10 Vpp at 4.5 MHz. Fig. 4(a)
shows the simulated result without ACM design. The tangential
electric ﬁeld is uniform on the electrode surfaces, and it creates
a spatial and circular vortex ﬂow in which a net ﬂuid ﬂow can
not be created. Fig. 4(b) shows the simulated result with the
Fig. 4 Numerical simulations of AC EOF induced by applying the potential of 10 Vpp at 4.5MHz. The color and the arrow streamline represent the
magnitude of the electric ﬁeld and the direction of the ﬂuidic ﬁeld, respectively. (a) Simulated result without any surface modulation. (b) Simulated
result with the surface modulation of 0.8 lm. (c) Both the positive and negative cycles plotted from (b). (d) The numerical comparison plotted from
A–A′ and B–B′ in (a) and (b), respectively, for the magnitude of the tangential electric ﬁeld (Et) versus the distance from the electrode structure.
728 | Lab Chip, 2008, 8, 725–733 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
dielectric layer surface, only beads within the depth of ﬁeld,
less than 1 lm, can be observed. The images and movies were
captured and recorded by a digital CCD camera connected to
a computer. The averaged pumping velocity was calculated by
measuring the total distance three beads has travelled as tracked
from the digital movie and dividing it by the number of beads
and the time interval between digital movie frames.
Results and discussion
Experimental results
When an ac potential is applied to the microelectrodes, the
ﬂow direction of the tracing microbeads is observed from
modulated electrode surface to un-modulated electrode surface.
This observed result is in good agreement with our theoretical
prediction as illustrated in Fig. 3. Several sequential images
about the movement of microbeads is recorded. Fig. 7 shows
two sequential pictures taken over the period of 6 s and the
microbeads are marked in the pictures for the purpose of easy
visualization. The applied ac potential is 8 Vpp at 3 MHz in
a 10 mM buffer solution. The averaged pumping velocity is
estimated around 10.3 lm s−1 in this case.
Fig. 7 Two sequential pictures taken over 6 s are used to trace the
microbeads with a potential of 8 Vpp at an excitation frequency of
3 MHz in a 10 mM buffer solution.
A series of similar experimentswere carried out aswell tomea-
sure the frequency-dependent pumping velocity under different
potential magnitudes and buffer concentrations. The pumping
liquids are NaH2PO4 buffer solutions with concentrations of
10 mM [Fig. 8(a)] and 5 mM [Fig. 8(b)], and the characterized
conductivities are 0.145 S m−1 and 0.073 S m−1, respectively.
Fig. 8(a) and (b) show that the pumping velocity approximates
to zero at low and high frequency limits. The maximum
pumping velocity, which depends on the buffer concentration
and the peak-to-peak ac applied potential, will appear at
the characteristic frequency. Fig. 8(c) shows the maximum
velocities versus the applied voltages in 5 mM and 10 mM
buffer solutions. For this case, the buffer solution with a lower
molal concentration has a higher pumping velocity. For each
buffer solution, there is no obvious trend for the characteristic
frequency of maximum pumping velocity versus peak-to-peak
ac applied potential in these experimental observations. The
Fig. 8 Micropumping velocity measurements. (a) and (b) show the
ﬂuidic velocity versus the applied ac potential varying from 1 MHz to
10 MHz at different applied potential amplitudes (4, 6, 8 and 10 Vpp).
The pumping liquid is NaH2PO4 buffer solution with concentrations of
10 mM (a) and 5 mM (b), respectively. The thickness of modulated layer
(SiO2) on the electrodes is 0.8 lm. (c) Measured maximum velocities
versus the applied voltages.
maximum observed pumping velocity is up to 290 lm s−1 at
10 Vpp 4.5 MHz in 5 mM buffer solution, and the estimated
maximum ﬂow rate is up to 26.1 ll h−1.
Fig. 9 shows the measurement result for the micropumping
velocity with different thickness of dielectric layer (0.8 lm and
1.2 lm). The applied signal frequency is varied from 10 kHz
to 15 MHz with the applied potential of 8 Vpp. The buffer
concentration is 20 mM (with a characterized conductivity of
0.29 S m−1). As shown in Fig. 9, the characteristic frequency of
maximum velocity is varied with the thickness of dielectric layer.
730 | Lab Chip, 2008, 8, 725–733 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
differences between theoretical predictions and experimental
results. The buffer solution of the lowest concentration has
a frequency of maximum velocity closer to the double layer
relaxation frequency (r/eL).22,23 As the buffer concentration
increases, the experimentally measured frequency of maximum
velocity will approach the frequency predicted by theory, while
becoming distant from the double layer relaxation frequency.
The frequencies of measured maximum velocity are higher
than predicted values, and the difference between experimental
and predicted values gets smaller as the buffer concentration
increases. Similar phenomena have also been observed and
reported by other research groups.18–21 This discrepancy of
conductivity at a high applied potential may be an important
factor. Practically, the salt concentration near the electrode
surface may be signiﬁcantly higher than that in the bulk ﬂuid
under high applied potential. In other words, the conductivity
above the electrode surface may be higher than the measured
bulk conductivity, and the variation in surface conductivity
tends to increase with decreasing ionic concentration.21 This
conductivity discrepancy will lead to lower measured pumping
velocity, which is lower than the predicted value, however, the
optimal frequency of maximum velocity is higher than the
predicted value. Moreover, the discrepancy of conductivity also
greatly affects dielectrophoresis (DEP).22
In addition, the deviation between the experimental result and
theoretical prediction also results from the following practical
implementations. Firstly, our PDMS microchannel consists of
a passive section (inlet/outlet static section) in series with an
active section (the “ﬂow generator”). A simple analysis in terms
of equivalent circuits shows that the mean pumping velocity
is equal to the intrinsic pumping velocity multiplying the ratio
of active hydraulic resistance to total hydraulic resistance of the
microchannel. For our experimental device, the ratio is estimated
to be 67%, which is in a reasonable range comparing to the
predicted and measured results from Table 1. Secondly, the
tracing Latex microbeads of 1 lm may distort the electric ﬁeld
induced by the applied ac potential, and the transportation of
microbeads induced by the AC EOF may be slowed down due
to the dielectrophoresis (DEP) force. The ratio of maximum
AC EOF to DEP velocity mentioned here can be given by
(VEOF/VDEP) ≈ 1.67K(r/a)2, where a is the radius of tracing
particles.16 For our experimental case, the ratios are about 33.87
for 5mMbuffer solution and24 for 10mMbuffer solution.From
Table 1, the estimatedmaximumDEP velocities are 13.79 lm s−1
for 5 mM buffer solution and 13.89 lm s−1 for 10 mM buffer
solution. Under this condition, relatively small-sized beads can
be chosen to minimize the effect of DEP on these experiments.
Thirdly, the electric ﬁeld line is, in fact, not a perfect semicircle
because the enhancement of electric ﬁeld occurs at the edge
of electrodes, resulting in the distortion of the applied electric
ﬁeld. Fourthly, the measurements presented in this paper are
performed close to the surface–liquid interface and the bead
movement is observed within 1 lm depth of ﬁeld, hence, the
variation of ﬂuid ﬂow in the vertical direction can account for
some of the discrepancy. Under this condition, the microscope
with larger numerical aperture can be applied to decrease the
discrepancy. All of these actions make it difﬁcult for theoretical
prediction to fully match the experimental result. However, the
order between predicted and experimental results is within a
reasonable agreement and it is also sufﬁcient for theoretical
prediction to fully explain the operational mechanism for our ac
electrokinetic microﬂuidic driver.
Theﬂuid ﬂowdescribed in this paper cannot be used to explain
electrothermal effect arised from heating of the ﬂuid of the
electric ﬁeld.23 The magnitude of the electrothermal velocity
should increase with conductivity or molal concentration,
however, the observed ﬂuid ﬂow velocity decreases instead.
The frequency at which the relaxation occurs depends on two
mechanisms.20,21 First, as shown in Fig. 3(b), there is a RC
relaxation due to the resistance of the ﬂuid bulk between in-series
capacitance of the EDL and the dielectric layer. This relaxation
results in an increase in the magnitude of tangential electric ﬁeld
at high frequencies. Therefore, a ﬂuid ﬂow at high frequencies
is introduced. Secondly, the EDL has a charge relaxation time
s = eL/r. The EDL relaxation implies that the induced charges
do not have enough time to build up the EDL structure as
the applied frequency approaches this relaxation frequency.
The EDL relaxation should only be taken into account if the
RC relaxation frequency is greater than the EDL relaxation
frequency or of the same order with it. As shown in Table 1,
measured optimal frequencies of maximum velocity are lower
than the estimated EDL relaxation frequencies. Consequently,
the EDL relaxation effect on our device can be ignored.
Electrolysis
In our experimental results, no electrolytic bubble is generated
at the characteristic frequency of maximum pumping velocity
under the applied potential even up to 10 Vpp. Electrolysis
usually occurs over a period of several seconds depending
on pH value of solution and the applied current. Electrolytic
bubble formation occurs if the gas concentration produced
by electrolysis exceeds the maximum solubility. Our measured
characteristic frequency ofmaximumpumping velocity in 5mM
buffer solution is 4.5MHz, which is high enough to prevent elec-
trolytic gas bubbles from occurring.When the applied frequency
is decreased to about 1 kHz, the bubbles will generate rapidly
and deteriorate the ﬂuid ﬂow. In the several-kHz-frequency
range, the electrolysis tends to occur in other ac electrokinetic
micropumps.11 Basedon theoretical prediction and experimental
observation, our proposed ac electrokinetic microﬂuidic driver
via the asymmetrically capacitance-modulated microelectrodes
can effectively prevent the occurrence of an electrolytic bubble,
thus ﬁne pumping performance can be obtained.
Conclusions
We have successfully demonstrated the feasibility of a proposed
ac electrokinetic microﬂuidic driver via the asymmetrically
capacitance-modulated microelectrode arrays. The maximum
pumping velocity at the applied potential of 10 Vpp in 5 mM
buffer solution can reach 290 lm s−1, and the estimated ﬂow rate
is up to 26.1 ll h−1. The phenomenon of electrolytic gas bubble
does not appear at the characteristic frequency of maximum
velocity during long-term observation. An equivalent circuit
model mentioned in this paper offers a good insight into the
operational mechanism of our microﬂuidic driver. The devia-
tions between theoretical predictions and experimental results
732 | Lab Chip, 2008, 8, 725–733 This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
