Depositing a substance in EPD can mainly be driven 
by three factors: diffusion, convection and 
dielectrophoretic drifting. Because CNT powders 
were well mixed in the solution and no stirring was 
performed during EPD, diffusion and convection 
effects were negligible. At the applied electric field in 
the solution, one-dimensional nanomaterials (such as 
linear polymers, nanorods, and CNTs) are easily  
polarized along the 
longitudinal axis, and these polarized dipoles drift 
owing to the effect of dielectrophoretic force. The 
dielectrophoretic drifting behaviors of CNTs are 
sensitive to the applied electric field. By suitably 
designing an electric field supply environment, 
dielectrophoretic drifting can be well controlled. 
According to our voltage controlling situation, the 
electric field distribution is illustrated in Fig. 2. The 
positive gate voltage repels the dipoles and prevents 
them from depositing in the neighborhood of the gate. 
Thus, polarized nanomaterial dipoles are pulled 
through the gate hole by electrical force from the 
negative cathode voltage and then deposited on the 
surface of the cathode. 
The cathode plate images obtained before and after 
EPD are shown in Figs. 3(a) and 3(b), respectively. 
Vertical electrode lines are cathode lines, whereas 
horizontal electrode lines are gate lines. The 
substance between the gate and cathode lines is a 
dielectric layer. The pixel size of the panel is 500 × 
500 μm2, the gate hole size is about 80 μm, and the 
dielectric thickness is about 25 μm. All cathode lines 
appear black in Fig. 3(b), implying that CNTs were 
selectively deposited on the cathode lines. In Fig. 
3(c), the morphology of the CNT-coated cathode 
obtained by SEM observation is shown. A large 
number of CNTs were coated on the cathode lines. 
Because CNT powders were not purified in the 
pretreatment, some carbon particles could still be 
observed on the cathode lines. It is suggested that the 
removal of these particles can both enhance the field 
emission properties of CNTs and improve the 
vacuum situation during the panel package process. 
The emission properties of CNTs in EPD are 
shown in Fig. 4. The turn-on electric field intensity is 
as low as 4.5 V/μm, whereas the current density 
reaches 1.25 mA/cm2 at 6 
V/μm. The anode coated with 
P22 green phosphor was 
bombarded by the 
accelerated electron emitting 
from the cathode and showed 
the light image in the inset in 
Fig. 4. It was found that the 
homogeneous emitting 
behavior of CNTs 
should be further improved in future applications for 
panel display industry. 
In conclusion, we have successfully demonstrated 
that EPD can be applied to the deposition of CNTs in 
the selected area of triode structures for FED devices. 
In our suitable voltage controlling situation, the use of 
a photoresist or sacrificial layer can be omitted. By 
comparing with other studies, our study combined the 
advantages of thick-film technology and EPD, which 
can scale up the panel size at a low cost and operate 
in a low-temperature environment.
 
B. One-step Fabrication and field emission 
characteristic of Carbon Nanotubes with Graphitic 
Petals on Stainless Steel 
 
In this study, we report here a traditional one-step 
fabrication of carbon nanotubes attached with the 
graphitic petal-like carbon materials on stainless steel 
as the substrates. The mixture of CO2 and CH4 were 
used as the precursor for the fabrication and it was 
operated in a microwave plasma enhanced CVD 
system. 
 
Experimental details 
Pieces of stainless steel plate (316A+, thickness 
0.2mm) with an area of 1 x 1 cm2 were selected as the 
substrate for the deposition of carbon materials. 
Firstly, the substrate was cleaned in an ultrasonic bath 
with acetone followed by methanol, then rinsed in 
 2
for the simultaneous formation of carbon nanopetals 
on the nanotube surface. We suggest that the O atoms 
in the plasma from the CO2 would attack the sp3, sp2 
carbon, and the unexceptional C-H bonding. Then it 
would keep equilibrium between the reactants and 
products as following: 
O2*/O*+ C-C + C-H ＜＝＞ CO + CO2 + OH… 
At the same time, the oxygen would also attack the 
nanotube surface to become breaches and the 
hydrogenation would arise. The reciprocation 
between plasma damaging and hydrogenation would 
make the ripping of nanotubes continue; therefore the 
size of carbon petals would become bigger with the 
increase of time. That is why the process of 
synthesizing CNTs would keep arising with the 
formation of nanopetals. 
The detailed crystalline structures of two entirely 
different morphological materials are displayed in Fig. 
3a and 3b. 
  
Both HRTEM images show the graphitic structures. 
Most interestingly, there is not catalyst observed 
between the graphitic nanoflake and nanotube (Fig. 3a) 
from EDX measurement. The result illustrates 
powerfully that the formation of nanoflakes on 
nanotube is not from the normal catalytic synthesis. 
Also, the process entirely differs from that of growing 
pure carbon flake sheet (Fig. 3b), as reported in other 
previous studies. In addition, the graphitic structures 
could be investigated by Raman measurements. Three 
distinct peaks could be observed in Fig. 4. There is a 
distinct peak, D’ band, at ~1620 cm-1, besides the two 
normal peaks of D and G bands at 1348 cm-1 and 
1580 cm-1, respectively. It suggests that the graphitic 
carbon materials comprise more ordered and 
relatively larger size crystallites. These similar results 
are also found on the Fe-coated carbon cloth. It is 
currently being carried out. 
 
 
The electron field emission measurement was 
carried out introducing a simple diode configuration. 
Here, we are interesting in the property of CNF/CNT 
electrode owing to its particular nanostructure. The 
emission current density (J, A/cm2) versus applied 
electric field (E, V/μm) plot was given in Fig. 5. It 
shows that the turn on field (ET) is ~2 V/μm 
corresponding to 10 μA/ cm2. The value is much 
lower than previously reported by Shang et al. Most 
importantly, we observe the lower ET value of ~2 V/
μm than that of 4.0 V/μm reported by S.K. 
Srivastava et al. in 2005 [9], even though they have 
different structures. That means the lower-temperature 
fabrication could be reached. 
 
B. Comparative study for improvement of 
luminance uniformity of CNT-BLU using 
PDMS diffuser 
 
Introduction 
Silicone rubber, polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), has 
been paid much attention in some applications of 
microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), 
micro-optics and biology because it has some 
fascinating properties for microstructures fabrication. 
For example, PDMS can replica easily the topography 
aster molds due to its low surface energy, which on m
 4
each image here is not comparable with each other. 
Experimental images revealed that the applied voltage 
gradually increases, resulting in the decrease of the 
uniformity for the luminance of CNT-BLU. Such 
problems for large-area CNT-BLU fabricated through 
screen-printed processes are more serious, which is 
because printed CNTs are randomly located and 
subsequently the generated lighting spots distribute at 
random. However, the low-cost way for improving 
this problem is to utilize optical elements covered 
with CNT-BLU to diffuser light sources. 
3.2The morphology on the surface of PD
 6
MS diffuser 
e fabricated PDMS diffuser had two different 
sur
zation and character of PDMS optical 
In this study, a series 
of
F
films 
Th
faces. One was rough surfaces and the other was 
highly oriented surface undulations. By the 
measurement of atomic force microscope, the surface 
roughness of rough surfaces, obtained in Step 2, on 
PDMS films was about 2.6 μm after sandblast 
treatment. Fig.3 (a) shows the SEM image of ordered 
wavy structures, formed after the uniaxial preload 
tension was released, on the other side of PDMS films. 
Each wavy structure there was placed side by side and 
arranged nearly in parallel. This result demonstrated 
that a highly ordered surface wavy structure could be 
achieved by the present method. Fig.3 (b) shows the 
AFM cross-section image for Fig. 3(a). It indicats the 
undulations on the PDMS surface have nearly 
uniform periods (~5μm) and amplitude (~200nm). By 
changing the mechanical strain (5%~30%) and the 
thickness of Au films (50nm~200nm), the periods of 
the undulations could be slightly adjusted between 4.5 
μm and 6.8 μm. The optical performance of the 
ordered surface structures was like that of optical 
gratings and the generated diffractive pattern was a 
series of peaks, shown in the left of the inserted image 
in Fig.3 (a). 
3.3 Categori
diffusers 
 various diffuser 
films made of PDMS 
polymers were studied 
to understand their 
effects on the diffusion 
of light. Seven types of 
diffuser films, shown 
ype 1 had only rough 
surfaces; (2) Type 2 had only optical gratings; (3) 
Type 3 had only glass microballs within it; (4) Type 4 
had respectively rough surfaces and optical gratings 
on both sides of films; (5) Type 5 had rough surfaces 
and glass microballs were within it; (6) Type 6 had 
optical gratings and glass microballs were within it; (7) 
Type 7 had respectively rough surfaces and optical 
gratings on both sides of films and glass microballs 
were within it. 
 
Generally speaking, two important indicators for 
di
3.4 The improvement of luminance uniformity of 
 put on the fixed 
ffuser films should be characterized. One is the 
scattering angle and the other is the diffuser light 
ability. To study the light of diffusion, we examined 
first the scattering angle of diffusers. A laser beam 
passed through diffusers located on a suitable distance 
(L) apart form the screen, and then a expand light (the 
maxim distance apart form the center, r) was 
projected on the screen. The scattering angle (θ) can 
be defined as )/(tan2 1 Lr− . The resulting scattering 
angle of diffus  in Table 1. Experimental 
results show the effect of three structures on the 
scattering angle: (1) glary slight effect on the 
scattering angle (form 0∘tss microballs have only 
veo 3∘) (2) the scattering angle of rough surfaces has 
small increase from 0∘to 12∘ ;( 3) optical gratings 
are useful to increase the scattering angle (form 0∘to 
40∘). These results indicate that the view angle of a 
display could be promoted by the use of optical 
gratings. 
 
ers is shown
CNT-BLU using PDMS diffusers 
Then, seven diffuser films were
position on CNT-BLU respectively to study the light 
diffusion ability. By CCD camera and a commercial 
software (Prometric, RADIANT IMAGING, version 
ig.4, were fabricated; (1) T
 8
reported here. The lower growth temperature of 350℃ 
could be reached. The growth mechanism of 
CNF/CNT films is found to be influence by the 
introduction of carbon dioxide. It could reduce the 
growth temperature owing to the lower decomposition 
energy of C=O and efficiently attack the strong C-C 
bonding. A lower turn on field has been observed. It 
could be dependent on the graphitic structures of both 
carbon nanotubes and nanopetals and the sharp edge 
of petal. Taking the simple fabrication and great 
emission property into account, the carbon nanotube 
with graphitic nanopetal could be a considerable 
candidate of cold cathode display devices. 
We also proposed a simple, low-cost way to 
fabricate PDMS optical diffuser films combined with 
rough surfaces, optical gratings and glass microballs. 
CNT-BLU was covered with the diffusers film to 
improve efficiently the luminance uniformity. To 
compare with various kinds of PDMS diffuser films, 
the presented PDMS diffuser films, obtained in 
Section 2, had the excellently optimal performance for 
the scattering angle and the diffuser light ability. 
Besides, all fabrication steps can be executed in 
ambient environment and at low temperature, the 
proposed method has a potential for mass production. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
