 2
一、中文摘要： 
在磨潤系統中，二個相互磨耗的表面的溫度高低常是決定磨耗劇烈與否的重要指標，
但由於磨耗表面的實際表面溫度往往是無法直接測量得到的，因此許多學者嘗試以各種預
測表面溫度分佈型式或是以傳統溫度梯度為主(gradient-based)的逆熱傳解法來解此問題，
但是此種方法常常僅找到局部的最佳值。 
 
本計畫即係利用微基因演算法來解環對盤磨耗試驗的熱流分析。為解此逆熱傳問題，
首先進行環對盤磨耗試驗，由實際磨耗試驗中所測得的溫度值作為誤差比較基準，並配合
微基因演算法來反推磨耗表面的溫度，並且可進一步逆解出熱通量與試件對流表面的熱對
流係數，這是正解算法所無法做到的；同時由於微基因演算法的計算收斂速度比基因演算
法要快，故可降低計算所需之時間，並可得到全域的最適值(global optimum)。由結果可知，
以實驗所得的摩擦功率和經由微基因演算法所得之溫度分布所算得的熱通量值比較可
知，微基因演算法所得到的溫度分布較為正確與合理。 
 
二、英文摘要 
Maximum contact temperature and temperature distribution are always concerns in the 
washer-on-disk tribological test because it influences the tribological mechanism occurring in 
the contact area. However, it is difficult to measure correctly. In the present study, the micro 
genetic algorithm method is applied to solve the heat transfer coefficient to the ambient 
atmosphere and the fraction of heat flux which goes into the disk. Comparisons and verifications 
are made to check the correctness of the result. It shows that the temperature distribution 
obtained from the micro genetic algorithm is both suitable and correct in solve this type of 
problem. 
 
關鍵詞(keywords)：micro genetic algorithm, washer-on-disk, wear test, temperature distribution 
 
三、報告內容： 
1. Introduction 
 
In a tribological system, the surface temperature of two mutually sliding worn surfaces is an 
important index to determine whether the system is under severe wear or not, particularly for 
metal surfaces. This is because different degrees of oxidational wear behavior will occur at 
different temperatures. The oxidational wear can be roughly classified into the following two 
categories: mild-oxidational wear and severe-oxidational wear [1]. The temperature rise is 
caused by the heat conduction between two contact surfaces of upper and lower specimens. 
Quinn [2] proposed an oxidational theory of mild wear based on the fact that a large increase in 
local temperature at the real area of contact will result in oxidation of the contact surfaces. 
Rowson and Quinn [3] developed a detailed heat flow analysis for a pin-on-disk configuration 
and derived the oxidational theory of mild wear. 
Chou and Lin [4] utilized the response surface method (RSM) to analyze the oxidational wear in 
a tribological system. The relationship of friction coefficient, sliding speed, and load with 
contact temperature has also been analyzed therein. It is therefore obvious from the above that 
the temperature of the contact surfaces plays a very important role in the degree of oxidational 
wear. 
However, it is difficult to measure the real contact temperature between two mutually sliding 
surfaces of the wear specimens during tests directly, such as in a pin-on-disk or washer-on-disk 
wear test. Iliuc [5] introduces some special methods to measure the real surface temperature of 
two contact surfaces. But the precision of the measurements and their applicability are restricted. 
Theoretical or numerical solutions for calculating surface temperature distribution have been 
developed in previous studies. Lin et al. [1] tried to solve the contact problem by assuming the 
surface temperature distribution at the contact surface of a washer-on-disk test to be a parabolic 
form in the radial direction. They made the following assumptions in order to simplify the 
 4
lower specimens were all made of AISI 1045 carbon steel rods and were machined to disks and 
ring washers for the washer-on-disk wear test machine. The dimensions of the ring-type disks 
and washers are illustrated in Fig. 1. The thermal conductivity for the AISI 1045 carbon steel is 
approximated equal to 26.8 W/(m °C). The core and lateral surfaces of the disk were insulated 
by an asbestos material with thermal conductivity in the range of 0.132 to 0.264 W/(m °C). 
A K-type thermocouple is positioned on disk’s top surface by point welding at a distance 14.4 
mm from the disk axis to measure the surface temperature Ta. There were three holes drilled at 
three depths, 5 mm, 8 mm and 11 mm, below the disk’s top surface. They were employed to 
measure temperatures by using three J-type thermocouples. The temperature measured at 11 mm 
below the top surface, TL, is considered to be the boundary condition. The temperature at the 
cross-section of 11 mm below the top surface is considered to be the same as TL. All the three 
measured temperatures, T5, T8 and Ta, are considered to be the known temperatures that would 
be compared with the temperatures at the same positions calculated by the micro-genetic 
algorithm. 
3
2
1
Unit : mm
L 
=1
1L 
=8
L 
=5w
θ r
z
h
Ro
Ri
Ri=8
R1=12.7
h =16
R2=14.25
Ro=15.8
R1 R
2
Figure 1 
 
 
Figure 2 
 
Figure 2 shows the schematic diagram of the washer-on-disk wear machine. The initial disk’s 
 6
friction power per unit area, P, can be estimated from the following equation: 
A
fLv
P 2
1
=         (8) 
where f is the average friction coefficient acquired from the test and )RR(A 21
2
2 −π=  
All the values of f, L, and v can be determined from the experimental data listed in [1]. The 
value of P will be used as a reference in the μGA method. 
 
3.2 Difficulties arising in solving this heat conduction problem 
 
In solving the heat conduction problem addressed in this paper, i.e., equations (1) ~ (7), the 
following difficulties encountered: 
(a) The heat transfer coefficient h in equation (6) is an unknown function. Its value might be 
different in each test since the test parameters are not the same. 
(b) The function between q and P is not known, that is, What is the fraction of the friction power 
that transforms into the heat flux, q, at the disk’s top surface? 
(c) If the previous two difficulties can not be solved first, it is not possible to solve equations (1) 
~ (7) directly, no matter what analytical or numerical method is used. 
 
4. Solving Heat Conduction Equations of the Disk Inversely via Micro Genetic Algorithm 
(μGA) 
 
Since equations (1) ~ (7) contain two unknown thermal properties, it is not possible to get the 
temperature distribution of the disk directly from the manipulations of these equations. 
Therefore, a micro genetic algorithm (μGA) [8] is suitable to use to estimate the two unknown 
thermal properties, h and q, and get the temperature distribution of the disk. The major 
difference between GA and μGA is that mutation is omitted in μGA and the population size for 
each generation in μGA is less than GA (typically 5~8). μGA uses a restart strategy to omit the 
mutation operation, this strategy can not only converge the current generation faster than GA, 
but also avoids premature convergence by introducing a new randomly selected population from 
the entire pool at the beginning of each restart process. 
 
The μGA method utilized in this paper contains the following procedures: 
 
(1) Coding and decoding: 
 
The possible range of value for q or h is logically defined first. For instance, the range of the 
heat transfer coefficient h is chosen to be from 0 to 200 W/(m2･°C), which contains both 
regimes of free and forced convection of the air. The range of the constant heat flux q is chosen 
to be from 0 to 100% of the friction power that is calculated from equation (8). 
Either of the two unknown parameters, q or h, is then coded into a finite-length string by the 
binary coding method [8]. The coding length is 16 binary digits for each parameter, which 
means the range is divided into 216 uniform-distributed individuals for q or h. Once the binary 
coding process is completed, all these 216 individuals for each parameter are then decoded to 
form the entire pool of the search space. If we take the combination of these two unknown 
parameters as a chromosome, the total number of digits of the chromosome is 32. Therefore, the 
number of possible combinations of the entire pool for the chromosome is 232. 
 
(2) Initial generation and evaluation function: 
 
The μGA starts from an initial generation that is usually created in a random manner. The 
population for each generation in this paper is 6. The temperature distribution of the disk is 
 8
Load=70 N 195 195.453 190 183.99 178 177.92 172 0.01147
 
Table 3 The estimated parameters, maximum contact temperature and position that maximum 
temperature occurred calculated from μGA 
Sliding speed 2.118 m/s 
Disk’s bulk 
temperature 25 °C 
Temperature(°C) h q TmaxμGA rmaxμGA Tmax[1] rmax[1]
Load=70 N 95.221 278459 201 13.6 253 13.475
 
Table 3 shows the maximum temperature and the position that maximum temperature occurred 
during the test. The results from Chou, et. al. [1] are also listed in Table 3 for comparison. There 
are two differences between the results, and they will be discussed here. 
Firstly, the position of maximum temperature was always at the middle point of the wear track 
in Chou et al.’s results as shown in Table 3, because they assumed that the temperature 
distribution profile in the wear track was a symmetrical parabola and the surface temperature of 
both sides around the wear track are all the same fixed temperature, the one which was obtained 
by the thermocouple during the test. However, this assumption is not reasonable for the outer 
top surface, because it was exposed to the ambient atmosphere and heat transfer would occur 
during the test. The reason why this convective heat transfer boundary condition was not applied 
in [1] is because that it was hard to assume a suitable heat transfer coefficient, h, in each case if 
we solved the problem directly. Therefore, the μGA solution is much more suitable than the 
forward solution used in [1]. 
Secondly, the magnitudes of the maximum temperature obtained from the two methods are quite 
different with each other, as shown in Table 3. The gap of these two temperatures is 52 °C. We 
have to show that the results obtained by the μGA method are more reasonable. This will be 
discussed in the next section. Once we prove that the results obtained from our present study are 
correct, we can then be very sure that the two parameters, h and q, can now be successfully 
estimated. 
 
 
5.2 Temperature profiles and heat flux identification 
 
Figure 3 shows the temperature profile of the cross-section of the disk specimens obtained from 
the μGA method. It can be clearly seen that the inner and outer top surface temperatures are not 
equal and constant. Figure 4 shows the temperature profile of the cross-section of the disk 
specimens reproduced from Chou et al. [1]. In this figure, the inner and outer top surface 
temperatures are all the same due to the assumption of constant and equal temperatures at both 
sides. The experimental conditions of both Figures 3 and 4 are all the same, with a sliding speed 
of 2.118 m/s and load of 70 Newtons. It is clear that the two temperature profiles in the wear 
track are different, which profile is more correct? In order to show the results obtained from the 
μGA method are more reasonable, we start from the calculation of the heat flux for both cases. 
 10
speaking, the partition fraction coefficient between the moving and the stationary bodies is not 
constant and equal along the finite contact interface [11]. However, since the two sliding contact 
specimens are all made from AISI 1045 and the wear track of the present study is a closed, 
circular and continuous sliding contact, the contact interface may be considered as infinite. 
Therefore, it is a reasonable assumption that the fractions of the heat flux that go into both the 
moving and sliding bodies are constant and equal in the present study. It is then concluded that 
the fraction coefficient of the total heat flux that goes into the disk specimens in the present 
study can be approximately set to 0.5, but the fraction coefficient of the measured friction power 
that goes into the disk specimens in the form of heat flux should be less than 0.5. 
 
The total heat flow Q entering the disk at the contact area of the top surface, i.e., from r= R1 to 
r= R2 (the heat conduction in contact area), for either temperature distributions in Fig.3 and 
Fig.4 can be calculated as: 
∫ ∫ ⋅π⋅⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
∂
∂−=⋅= 2
1
2
1
R
R
R
R drr2z
)0,r(TkdAqQ     (10) 
The total heat flow can also be obtained experimentally by assuming that the total heat flow that 
goes into the disk is a fraction of the measured friction power. If the total heat flow which is 
caused by friction power and enters the disk is denoted as Qexp, it can be calculated by the 
following equation: 
xfLvQexp =          (11) 
where: 
x=0.5 is selected for comparison. 
f = average friction coefficient ontained from the test data [1]. 
L = normal load, N 
v = test speed of the washer, m/s 
All the values of μ, L, and v can be determined from the experimental data listed in [1]. For the 
example results of figure 4 [1], these values are: 
f = 0.5, 
L = 70.1 N 
v = 2.118 m/s 
Substitute these values into equation (11) and we can get Qexp = 74.24 Watts. 
The approximate experimental heat flux, Qexp, which goes into the disk, should be greater than 
the calculated heat flux because the work for wear debris production and other losses were not 
taken into account. 
Denoting QCCC and QμGA as the total heat flow of both calculated temperature profiles shown in 
figures 3 and 4, they can be calculated from equation (10): 
QCCC=150.04 (Watts) 
QμGA=30.754 (Watts) 
It can be clearly seen that the total heat flow that goes into the disk, QCCC, obtained from Chou 
et al. [1] is not correct, because QCCC is nearly 2 times larger than experimental heat flow, Qexp. 
Conversely, the total heat flow obtained from micro genetic algorithm, QμGA, is smaller than the 
experimental heat flow, Qexp, as shown in Figure 4. We can thus be sure that the result 
calculated by the μGA algorithm is more accurate than the previous study. 
Sliding speed 2.118 m/s 
Disk’s bulk 
temperature 25 °C 
Total heat flow (W) Qexp QCCC QCCC / Qexp QμGA 
QμGA/ 
Qexp 
Load=70 N 74.24 150.04 2.0210 30.754 0.4143 
Figure 4  Comparison of heat flow fraction between QCCC、QμGA versus Qexp 
 
5.3 Convergence study 
