 
 
2
the series for one period or a range of specified periods. 
Ozden et al.[15] proposed the sequential algorithm and interleaved algorithm to determine cyclic 
association rules. Associate rules capture inter-relationships between various items. Cycle-Pruning, 
Cycle-Skipping and Cycle-Elimination aim to identify the association rules which has the minimum 
confidence and support occurring at regular intervals. Chiang[5] and Chen[4] proposed algorithms to 
determine the interval of recurring patterns. 
The approaches presented above primarily target at the orders of items purchased or cyclic patterns 
occurred within a time window defined by users. However, by these works, we hardly know the cycle and 
interval of items purchased. Thus, we hardly know when the best time to recommend the right products to 
right person is. Actually, periodical patterns are common in daily life. A time-interval sequential pattern 
provides more information than a conventional sequential pattern does, discovering time-interval of the 
successive itemset is the first step toward more accurate analysis of customer analysis. Therefore, in this 
paper, we develop an algorithm to analyze the periodical properties of time intervals over sequential patterns. 
We combine data mining skills and fundamental of statistic to introduce an algorithm CMA (Cyclic Model 
Analysis) to find out the model of recurring purchasing. The modeling process commences with the 
discovery of sequential patterns from the transactional database. Then we compute the interval of successive 
events by the LPDT(Linearly Periodical Distribution Testing)/LPDM(Linearly Periodical Distribution 
Modeling) which will be explained in more details later. Next we use CMA algorithm to model the period 
and trends of quantities of purchasing. Consequently, marketing people can recommend right products to 
right customers at right time.  
This section provides a comprehensive review of prior works related to sequence pattern mining. In 
addition, we explain the motivation and research objectives of this paper in this section. The remainder of this 
article is organized as follows. The mathematical model which portrait the sequential buying behavior are 
constructed in Section 2. The proposed algorithms are presented in Section 3. The experimental results are 
shown in Section 4. The briefings on short conclusion and discussion on the future direction will be shown in 
the Section. 5.  
 
 
 
 
II. PROBLEM STATEMENT 
 
To facilitate the presentation of this paper, some preliminaries are given in this section. Given a database D 
of customer transactions, each transaction is characterized by the fields: <customer-id>, < time stamp> and 
 
 
4
For any given subset of the domain of the function, we use simple linear regression to construct the 
regression line of the function within the sub-domain. If the slope of the obtained straight line is a positive 
number, the purchase of item-i2 increases in a certain rate. If the slope is a negative number, the sales volume 
of item-i2 is on the decrease at a certain rate.  
The distributions of interest can be categorized into three types. The first type is the simply ascending type. 
The second one is the plainly descending distribution. And the third type is the most common one which 
occurs frequently in the real world scenarios. The consumers tend to buy more item-i2 after they bought 
item-i1. And the sales volume of item-i2 decreases after a certain point reached. 
Fig 1. is the plot of the distribution functions obtained from a real-world database. The upper half of the Fig 
1. illustrates the third distribution type; however, the function is of type one on the domain [0,90]. The 
“follow-up sales” of item-i2 goes up in a span of time after the item-i1 purchased, then the sales volume 
decreases after the “ascending” duration. Besides, part (2) of Fig 1.  is another common type. The purchase of 
item-i2 decreases at a moderate rate.  
 
 
Fig. 1.  The illustrations of the three types of distributions 
 
After the mathematical model constructed, we shall explore the characteristics of the model and the 
relations between the model and the real world. The periodicity and degeneration will be our major concerns. 
The study of the characteristics of the model is useful to   uncovers more “previously hidden” patterns such as 
“how long the repeated behavior will last?” and “when the next purchase will happen”.  
If the function repeats its value after some certain period, the function is called a periodic function. The 
periodicity implies the cyclic sales volume. In other words, we can predict when the customers likely buy the 
item-i2. Therefore, the definition of periodicity of the function is vital to our study. The definition of a simple 
periodic function can be formulated as follows. 
 
 
6
Fig. 3.  A Plot of linearly decreasing periodical distribution function 
 
As mentioned, we’re not only interested in the periodicity. The degeneration phenomenon is another major 
concern. Since the distribution function is a nonnegative function defined on the domain, the value of the 
function will be greater than or equal to zero. Hence, the point which cause the function reaches zero is 
important to the study of the model as well. 
Given a linearly decreasing distribution function. If the value of the function f(x) is equal to zero when the 
variable x exceeds a definite point in the domain, the point is called the degeneration point of the function. 
We learned from real-world experiences that the periodical purchase won’t last forever due to many reasons. 
The degeneration point signifies the fact that the customers tend to stop the purchasing. The business owner 
must be warned before the degeneration point reached. Thus the marketers can take actions to favorable 
impact the customers. 
Next section, we will combine the data mining skills and some mathematical tools to formulate the 
algorithms to construct an automated and attainable analysis procedure for both engineers and marketing 
professionals. 
 
III. ALGORITHMS 
 
In this section, we present three algorithms to deal with the distribution function obtained from the 
transaction databases. The procedures proposed here are the synthesis of data mining techniques and 
mathematical tools. We start with the Linearly Periodical Distribution Testing (LPDT) to determine the 
periodicity of the function. Next, Linearly Periodical Distribution Modeling (LPDM) is used to formulate the 
polynomial to approximate the original function investigated. The third algorithm presented here is Cyclic 
Model Analysis (CMA). The CMA algorithm is used to depict the tendency and periodicity of the buying 
activities within the whole investigated time frame. Coupled with industry domain knowledge and markers’ 
expertise, the constructed model is a helper to predict likely buying behaviors. 
 
A. Linearly Periodical Distribution Testing (LPDT) 
 
In read-world scenario, the purchasing behavior won’t last forever. The occurrence of purchase won’t 
happen in a strict regularly way. Therefore, we have to find a systematic way to determine if the function 
repeats itself at a regular period and find the value of the period. We propose an empirical measure to 
determine the periodicity of the function. The value of the period can be identified by applying the measure to 
 
 
8
the establishment of the regression line. Fig 5.(a) shows the graph of the function and the regression line  
y=ax+b found by the step 1 of the procedure. Fig 5.(b) shows that the discovered period for the given 
function is 6.42 (2π=3.1416*2). 
 
Fig. 5.  The first step of the LPDT procedure is to find the regression line y=ax+b. Then the iterative computation of error threshold 
suggests that 6.42 has maximum likelihood that 6.42 is the period of the function. 
 
 
 
 
B. Linearly Periodical Distribution Modeling (LPDM ) 
 
The cyclic distribution is to be used to portrait the sequential pattern found in the transaction databases. The 
graph of the function combined with the finding of the procedure LPDT provides a visual aid to help a better 
understanding of whole picture of the sequence. Furthermore, LPDT can detect the availability of periodicity 
in the mined patterns. Therefore, we need a mathematical structure to symbolize and describe the real world. 
The aim of the algorithm Linearly Periodical Distribution Model (LPDM) is to construct the structure 
mapping the relations between relevant attributes in the transaction database to the relations between the 
attributes of the function defined by the mathematical model. Since regression analysis is a frequently tool for 
fitting equation to data. Hence we use regression technique to formulate the LPDM algorithm. 
The simple linear regression model is a straight line representing the inclination of the scatter of  (x,y) plot. 
It’s not sufficient to describe the variation of the value of Y=f(x). Thus, we employ a more general model to 
formulate the LPDM algorithm. After applying LPDT to the given distribution to find the period λ,. we use 
the generalized linear model to define equation 
 
 
10
overfitting problem, the degree of the polynomial is left as user input parameter. 
Next, we will use the polynomial model to approximate equation (3) as the illustration of the LPDM 
algorithm. Before building the polynomial for the given example function, we invoke LPDT to find that the 
simple linear regression model y=0.023x+2.526 and the given function has period λ=6.42. 
Take degree = 6, the output of LPDM is the polynomial model of degree 6. The obtained output is 
2( ) (0.023 2.252) {0.9012 0.5577( mod 6.42) 0.5251( mod 6.42)f x x x x= + × + + −
6
1)
         (8) 
3 4 50.5153( mod 6.42) 0.1321( mod 6.42) 0.0144( mod 6.42) 0.00066( mod 6.42) }x x x x+ − +        
   
Refer to Fig 5(b) to see the scanner of plot of the original equation (3) and the obtained polynomial (8). 
 
C. Cyclic Model Analysis (CMA) 
 
The purpose of the establishment of the mathematical model is to help us have a better understanding of the 
whole picture of “what happened” and predict what’s likely to happen. With LPDT and LPDM, we can 
determine if the customers tend to repeat buying at a regular period and formulate the equation to 
approximate the distribution obtained from the sequence. The model established is the language used to 
describe the pattern on the defined time frame.  
Next, we will propose an algorithm, CMA, to analyze to analyze and describe the characteristics of the 
sequential pattern mined from the transaction databases. The procedural steps are described as follows: 
 
 
PROCEDURE  CMA (   f: :  the given distribution function defined on X={x1,x2,..xn} 
min_period :  minimal period prospect,  
max_error :  maximal tolerable error threshold  
degree: the order of polynomial, 
ratio: the threshold used to stop the procedure) 
begin 
Find the local maximum Xm within the domain {x1,x2,..xn} 
if  ( Xm ≤ 1 ( nx ratio x x+ × −  ) then           /* f(x) is of  descending type */ 
   invoke LPDT/LPDM to f(x) to find the period and the polynomial 
else if  ( Xm ≥  1(n n )x ratio x x− × −  ) then   /* f(x) is of ascending  type */ 
   invoke LPDT/LPDM to f(x) to find the period and the approximation 
else  
begin 
 Divide the domain X into X1={x1,..xm-1} and X2={xm+1,…,xn} 
     Invoke LPDT/LPDM to X1 and X2 respectively 
end 
 
 
12
 
 
IV. EXPERIMENTS 
In general, consumer markets have several characteristics in common such as repeat-buying over the 
relevant time horizon, a large number of customers, and a wealth of information detailing past customer 
purchases. Hence we cooperated with a well known cosmetic company to conduct the sequential pattern 
mining project. We collected the purchasing records of total 41 products between 2000 and 2001. In 
summary, we found 160,334 and 215,854 transactions in the year 2000 and 2001 respectively. In the year 
2000, the average products purchased in a single transaction is 2.93 (items). 
Assume the probabilities of each product sold are equal, (1/41)*2.93 = 7.032. Thus we take the min_sup = 
7.0% as the threshold of frequent-itemset. After applying sequential mining process to the transaction 
database, the sequences found are listed in the Table 1. 
 
Table 1.  The result of sequential pattern mining 
Support Sequence found
23.6 % <33, 16>
22.2 % <38, 37>
20.5 % <25, 20>
20.3 % <20, 25>
19.6 % <25, 33>
17.9 % <25, 16>
17.3 % <33, 25>
17.2 % <25, 27>
16.7 % <38, 20>
16.7 % <38, 25>
16.5 % <27, 25>
15.9 % <20, 16>
……….. …………..
 
We analyzed each discovered sequence by using the CMA algorithm presented in previous Section. The 
discovery of periodicity and the formulation of the equation can be easily achieved by the algorithms LPDT 
and LPDM. The CMA help marketers dig out more “facts” form the transaction records. Consequently, the 
marketers can take appropriate actions to favorably impact customers’ behavior. 
From the experiments conducted, we chose sequence <38,20> and <37,27> as the samples illustrating how 
the CMA algorithm can be applied to help marketers analyzing customers behavior. 
The sequence <38,20> means that customer “purchasing product 38 first, then buy product 20.”  We plot 
the graph of distribution function of  <38,20> and <37,27> ,respectively, as Fig 9. and Fig 10. With the help 
of visual representation of the distribution function, engineers, marketers and business owners can 
communicate with each other easily. As shown in Fig . 9, we found that <38,20> is a simple “descending” 
 
 
14
distribution function, the purchase decreased at a sharp rate after the 170th day of the first purchase. The result 
implies that the customer won’t purchase <27> immediately. That is, the sales volume increase quickly until 
day 170. After day 170, the sales decrease to zero immediately. Again, sequential pattern  mining tells us the 
order of purchase but CMA extracts the more important facts such as periodicity and tendency. 
 
 
 
Fig. 10.  The result of applying CMA to the sequence <37,27> 
 
 
V. CONCLUSION 
This paper focuses on the repeat-buying behavior over time. We introduce a time-interval analysis 
algorithm can be applied to a wide array of applications, especially to analyze time-variant purchase behavior 
and establish the model for predicting consumers' likely behaviors. 
The CMA algorithm explores the trend of repeat-buying behaviors and provides a model for predicting 
when the customers tend to purchase, and when the customers tend to stop buying. Consequently, the 
marketers can allocate resources to build and execute the marketing campaigns that favorably impact the 
behavior of these customers. 
We have shown that the CMA performs well in describing the buying pattern of consumers and predicting 
likely behaviors. However, it leaves some room for improvement. For example, we can polish the period 
detecting procedure by incorporating regression and other statistics tools. Moreover, the LPDT/LPDM/CMA 
procedures can be combined with a personalized recommender system for retail business. The discovered 
facts found by CMA can be fed into the recommender to form an automated process for detecting relevant 
knowledge from customers and providing useful suggestion for marketing campaign. 
