of ownership advantages (O) drives the firms towards 
becoming MNEs, and that the market location and entry 
strategies will evolve along the process where the 
location advantages (L) and internalization 
advantages (I) will interact with ownership 
advantages in different stages. 
英文關鍵詞： Globalization, Internationalization, OLI Paradigm, 
Uppsala Model, Strategic Management. 
 
  1 
一.	 研究成果	 
MODEL FOR THE INTERNATIONALIZATION PROCESS OF 
CONSTRUCTION FIRMS: A DYNAMIC OLI VIEW 
 
Abstract 
As a result of global competition, staying domestic is no longer safe from competition 
and, maybe, the best strategy for firms to survive the increasingly intensive competition 
is to grow and become internationals. The global economy has changed drastically how 
firms operate and compete. Firms have to reconsider whom they are competing with, 
what their competitive and comparative advantages are, and how they can strengthen 
their competitiveness to survive and grow. The objectives of this study are to develop a 
model that operationalizes the internationalization process of construction firms and to 
derive strategy implications appropriate for firms during the process. The Dynamic-OLI 
(D-OLI) model is developed based on the new perspective that fuses the eclectic theory 
of internationalization, namely, OLI model, and the dynamic, process view of 
internationalization. The D-OLI model for construction industry characterizes the 
dynamic process of internationalization through three stages of internationalization and 
prescribes market selection and entry mode strategies for firms at different stages. The 
three stages of internationalization for construction firms are the pre-international stage, 
the pre-Multinational Enterprise (pre-MNE) stage, and the MNE stage. We argue that the 
dynamic development and accumulation of ownership advantages (O) drives the firms 
towards becoming MNEs, and that the market location and entry strategies will evolve 
along the process where the location advantages (L) and internalization advantages (I) 
will interact with ownership advantages in different stages.  
 
Keywords: Globalization, Internationalization, OLI Paradigm, Uppsala Model, Strategic 
Management. 
  
1. Introduction 
The global economy has changed drastically how firms operate and compete. Firms have 
to reconsider whom they are competing with, what their competitive and comparative 
advantages are, and how they can strengthen their competitiveness to survive and grow. 
  3 
process of construction firms and derive implications on internationalization strategies, 
including the strategies for capability building, market locations, and entry modes. Case 
study results on some construction Multinational Enterprises (MNEs) are presented to 
illustrate the insights obtained from for the proposed model. Section 4 concludes this 
paper. 
 
2. Theories of Internationalization Process and the Needs for Integration 
2.1  The OLI Paradigm 
Dunning’s OLI paradigm, or called the eclectic theory of international production, (see 
Dunning 1988) is one of the most important theories in internationalization. OLI 
paradigm integrates three different FDI (Foreign Direct Investment) theories, each with a 
different focus or question. FDI can be defined as a company from one country making a 
physical investment that produces merchants directly in another country. Broadly defined, 
FDI can be considered the establishment of a business entity or enterprise, such as a 
subsidiary or branch office, that performs one of the major functions of its parent 
company. FDI can also be regarded as an entry mode that demands the highest resource 
commitment compared to other modes such as export or franchise. One of the most 
concerns in FDI is to answer why firms wish to conduct their business in other countries 
given the fact that firms will incur significant additional costs due to resource 
mobilization, the lack of local knowledge and supporting resources, and various risks 
associated with international trade. Whereas transaction cost economics (TCE) view 
explains well the boundary of firms in terms of whether or not using “hierarchy” to 
internalize certain transaction activities, TCE’s explanation of FDI is not satisfactory. 
Therefore, Dunning added two more factors other than TCE based Internalization 
advantages (I-advantages), namely Ownership advantages (O-advantages) and Location 
advantages (I-advantages), to address the why, where, and how questions of FDI 
altogether through O, L, and I, respectively. 
O-advantages view of FDI suggests that the MNE must possess one or more firm 
specific advantages, such as core competence or economies of scale, which allow it to 
overcome the additional costs of operating in a foreign country. L-advantages view of 
FDI emphasizes that the factor advantages, such as cheap labors or market potentials, in a 
foreign country may further strengthen the firm’s competitive advantages in earning rents 
  5 
The most cited process model in explaining the processes and steps in internationalization 
is the “Uppsala Model” or U-model, as shown in Fig. 1, proposed by Johanson (faculty of 
University of Uppsala) and Wiedersheim-Paul (1975) and Johanson and Vahlne (1977). 
The most important insight of the model is that the resource commitment to a foreign 
market is increased incrementally because the knowledge of the foreign market can only 
be gradually learned during the process. The model explains how present market 
knowledge and market commitment affect commitment decisions and activities, and, in 
turn, renew knowledge and commitment. Emphasizing on learning theory, the U-model 
argues that current business activities are the prime source of experiences and 
commitment decisions in international activities and that transactions are made based on 
the knowledge from these experiences. As more market knowledge is learned, firms can 
then proceed to the stages or states that have higher degrees of international involvement 
or resource commitment. From the learning and process perspectives, the U-model can be 
considered a dynamic model, as opposed to the relatively static OLI paradigm. In a 
dynamic model, the internationalization strategy such as entry mode or the selection of 
foreign markets/countries will change as the firms move to a different state/stage of 
internationalization. However, the U-model has two major constraints. First, the model 
does not explain why or how the process starts and what factors may influence the 
process (Anderson 1993). Second, from the RBV perspective, market knowledge alone 
may seem too weak to be considered as the dominant factor in determining the resource 
commitment decision. For example, firms’ reputation, social capital, management skills, 
or financial ability accumulated through time can also be one of the critical factors in 
determining the commitment decisions, depending on different situations.  
 
  7 
Staged U-model considers internationalization a dynamic process that focuses on learning. 
Yet, the only explanatory variable in U-model, market knowledge, seems insufficient in 
explaining why or how the process starts and what other factors may influence the 
process. From the eclectic paradigm viewpoint, the O-advantages are the major rationale 
that explains why a firm can successfully compete in international markets. O-advantages 
also conceptually incorporate other major factors in addition to market knowledge that 
generate sustained competitive advantages for competing in international markets. In this 
aspect, the O-advantages in OLI model seem to provide a more comprehensive concept 
than market knowledge for explaining the process of internationalization. 
On the other hand, the standard OLI paradigm is a relatively static model that 
focuses only on one OLI configuration at a certain point of time. Although Dunning 
(2008) pointed out that, at different points of time or states, OLI configurations may be 
different and the changes may result from outer environment or from firm itself, it is not 
clear in Dunning that how the O-, L-, I-advantages may evolve through time or in 
different states. In this regard, U-model provides the conceptual model of how the OLI 
configurations evolve dynamically in the process of internationalization. 
In the following section, we will present a model that integrates the OLI paradigm 
and staged U-model together to better explain the dynamic process of internationalization. 
Then, we will apply the new framework to the derivation of internationalization strategies 
for construction firms. Our model can be considered a dynamic version of OLI paradigm 
and, thus, shall be called Dynamic-OLI (D-OLI) model in this paper. 
 
3.  A Dynamic-OLI (D-OLI) Model for Construction Firms 
3.1  The Conceptual Framework of D-OLI Model 
 
By integrating the OLI model and staged U-model, the D-OLI model views the 
internationalization as the process of developing and accumulating O-advantages through 
incremental commitments specified by appropriate strategies that are consistent with 
different OLI configurations in different stages of internationalization. Applying the 
concept of stages to U-model helps firms evaluate where the firms are in the process of 
internationalization in terms of firms’ OLI configurations. Here the process is 
decomposed into three stages, representing firms’ different degrees of internationalization. 
  9 
2009). Position refers to firms’ specific assets at any point of time, such as knowledge, 
reputation, financing ability, etc (Teece et al. et al. 1997). The position is accumulated 
and shaped by the history it has experienced. Therefore, the “position” conceptually may 
correspond to the “state” of the D-OLI model. Luo (2000) applies the dynamic capability 
perspective to examine the resources and ability changes during international expansion. 
Possessing distinctive capability brings a firm competitive advantage, and then the ability 
to deploy resources appropriately, which corresponds to strategic commitment decisions, 
can generate stronger competitive advantages. Most importantly, learning and acquiring 
new knowledge is an essential ability for a firm to achieve globally success by upgrading 
its resource base, the state aspects of D-OLI. 
The D-OLI model operationalizes three stages of internationalization in the evolving 
process and derives implications on strategies for the development of O-advantages, 
market locations, and entry modes. The three stages of internationalization for 
construction firms are the pre-international stages, the pre-MNE stage, and the MNE 
stage. In the D-OLI model, the development and accumulation of O-advantages drives 
the firms towards the stage of higher degrees of internationalization. L-advantages and 
I-advantages will interact with O-advantages differently in different stages and, thus, the 
location/market selection and entry mode strategies will be evolved as well along the 
process.  
Note that although we argue that the degrees of internationalization are driven by the 
accumulation of O-advantages; logically, this reasoning does not imply that the firm has 
to start from the first stage, i.e., the pre-international stage, or that the firm cannot jump 
from the first stage to the last stage, or that the firm cannot stay in a certain stage, not 
moving the next stage. Depending on many different situations and firm characteristics, a 
firm may skip an earlier stage if, during the evolving process, the combined OLI 
advantages pass the threshold that satisfies the jump conditions. A firm may also stay in a 
certain stage even though the O-advantages continue to accumulate, because proceeding 
to higher degrees of internationalization does not necessarily lead to firm’s profit 
maximization as evidenced by many studies, e.g., Geringer et al. (1989) and Lu and 
Beamish (2001; 2004). 
 
3.2  The Dual Forces of Internationalization in Construction 
Unfortunately, the D-OLI model inherits the problem of U-model as commented by 
Anderson (1993) that the model does not explain why or how the internationalization 
process starts, although the OLI paradigm does provide insights on the precondition for 
  11 
 
3.3.1  Characteristics of the pre-international stage and implied strategies 
The international-capable firms are those who are capable of collaborating with MNEs in 
performing global projects. They may still stay local but collaborate with MNEs by 
taking the leading role to perform local projects. They may sometimes go abroad and 
collaborate with MNEs by being a supporting partner to compete for international 
projects. We shall call these firms “the pre-international firms.” As such, firms in global 
economy are compelled to develop those O-advantages required for global competition. 
According to Gunhan and Arditi (2005), the major sources of competitive advantages of 
construction companies in international construction markets may include track 
records/reputation, specialist expertise, project management capability, international 
network, technological advantage, financial strength, equipment, material, and labor 
support, etc. From the D-OLI perspective, the aforementioned sources of competitive 
advantages are also the major components of O-advantages. These O-advantages are 
critical to the chances of winning bids and to the success of project execution. These 
O-advantages are critical in international construction markets, but many of these 
advantages can only be obtained from related experiences or project participations. For 
example, track records are often one of the major obstacles that obstruct those 
construction or engineering firms who are new to the international market from 
penetrating into foreign countries and, therefore, these firms often try to find strategic 
allies that possess the necessary track records (Gunhan and Arditi 2005) so as to compete 
for projects and accumulate track records. In fact, strategic allies play a crucial role in 
helping these firms obtain the O-advantages for internationalization, including 
establishing track records, eliminating major entry barriers, shortening learning curves, 
learning local market knowledge, reducing uncertainties, and establishing critical 
networking capabilities, etc. The importance of strategic allies is mainly due to the 
protectionism in construction sector, the incompleteness of information in construction 
sector, and the “local” nature of construction industry. For the same reasons, the 
pre-international stage is particularly important for firms in construction industry, 
compared to those in manufacturing, and it is very difficult to skip this stage and start 
from the second stage during the process of internationalization. 
As result, the pre-international firms have much less opportunities to realize their 
possible L-advantages in selecting certain markets/countries because their strong 
dependence on their allies will seriously limit their options of choosing the locations.    
Therefore, we argue that “client- or partner-following strategy” is often a better strategy 
  13 
establishing subsidiaries. We can conclude that, in the pre-international stage, CECI 
started their internationalization using client/partner-following strategy to accumulate 
reputations, reduce risks, and evaluate potential markets. 
 
3.3.3  Case study of CTCI 
Another illustration is the case of CTCI, who followed Chiyoda, a Japanese 
engineering firm, and began the process of internationalization. Founded in 1979, CTCI 
is now an Taiwan-based MNC and also the largest engineering, procurement, and 
construction (EPC) firm in Taiwan. CTCI’s main business scope is in the design and 
construction of chemical and petrochemical projects, characterized by their long lifecycle, 
concentrated demand, and strong dependence on natural resources. According to the 
interviews, when the market for petrochemical construction in Taiwan was almost faded 
away in the 70’s, CTCI was “pushed” out of Taiwan’s market, starting to explore 
opportunities overseas. Invited by Chiyoda, who came to Taiwan to undertake a major 
petrochemical project in Kaohsiung in 1971, CTCI followed the experienced partner to 
undertake projects in Saudi Arabia and started the journey of developing the 
O-advantages required for international market. Later on, in the pre-international stage, 
CTCI benefited greatly from following and partnering with various Japanese and western 
companies, with good reputations, financing capabilities and advanced technology, on 
technological capability and on the project bidding. 
 
3.4  The Pre-MNE Stage of Internationalization Process 
 
3.4.1  Characteristics of pre-MNE stage and implied strategies 
In the pre-MNE stage, firms begin to be capable of taking the major role of project leader 
in JVs and eventually can establish sole venture subsidiaries in foreign countries. 
However, in this stage, the pre-MNEs do not yet have full capacity to compete or commit 
resources globally and their competitiveness can still be constrained by their scale, 
financing ability, market knowledge, or human capital, etc. In this stage, market 
knowledge becomes critically important, as emphasized in U-model, because the 
pre-MNEs tend to use high degrees of international involvement such as subsidiaries in a 
few focused foreign markets and it is crucial that the firms learn about those markets as 
much as possible. From the OLI perspective, L-advantages can be best exploited in this 
stage because most market knowledge learned through the focused market seeking 
strategy is location specific. The market knowledge accumulated from different countries 
  15 
The MNE stage is the final stage of internationalization process. In this stage, the firms 
are becoming MNEs as they can compete globally and have substantial supports from 
their foreign subsidiaries. As we have observed in construction industry, the MNEs can 
undertake projects in almost any countries with few concerns on the “psychic distance.” 
Their employees are constantly involved in global projects, familiar with different major 
types of culture, and better prepared for potential collaboration problems and complex 
environments. The MNEs can more efficiently integrate key resources around the world 
and more effectively work with partners and manage key subcontractors. Very often, the 
MNEs perform a project by having employees from several international subsidiaries 
working together as a team via modern communication and networking technology and 
knowledge management systems. In this way, the experts or professionals in an MNE can 
provide services worldwide and the MNEs can significantly reduce the costs of operating 
a subsidiary in terms of the fixed investment on human capital. In this stage, the MNEs 
focus on integrating and leveraging their OLI advantages to their maximum levels. On 
the one hand, the MNEs establish a network of subsidiaries that may work together or 
compliment one another in terms of their different L- and O-advantages. On the other 
hand, the MNEs can also regard the world as one market and compete for those global 
projects that promise excess profits.  
 As such, in terms of market location strategy, the MNEs in construction will adopt 
the “dual opportunity-driven and focused-market strategy,” which has dual focuses on 
both opportunities for undertaking profitable large global projects and the market 
potentials for becoming a focused-market. With very strong O-advantages, the MNEs can 
undertake projects in almost any countries with minor concerns of “psychic distance.” 
MNEs may also effectively obtain required market knowledge within a short period of 
time through the means of JVs or M&As and enter a market for a particular profitable 
project. As a result, they regard the world as one market and compete for those global 
projects that promise excess profits. However, when there are enough market potentials 
in a specific market, the MNEs can switch to focused-market strategy so as to exploit the 
long-run profits in the focused-market. In terms of entry mode strategy, JVs, branch 
offices, and sole venture companies will be the dominant modes, given their 
aforementioned global strategy.  
 
3.5.2  Case study of PBI 
Parsons Brinckerhoff International (PBI) is a planning, engineering, and 
program/construction management company. The regions of their business include Asia, 
  17 
conduct their business in foreign countries, whereas firms will incur significant costs 
associated with trading internationally. In particular, the relatively static OLI paradigm 
and the dynamic U-model are identified as the two complimentary theories that jointly 
constitute the foundation for the proposed model. The D-OLI model, similar to the 
U-model, is a process model that describes how firms dynamically evolve in the 
internationalization process. The D-OLI model further takes the OLI view and focuses on 
the dynamic development and accumulation of O-advantages. According to the D-OLI 
model, the development of O-advantages for global competition will drive the process of 
internationalization, which can be characterized by firms’ OLI configurations and 
represented by three distinctive stages, namely, the pre-international stage, the pre-MNE 
stage, and the MNE stage. In considering the characteristics of construction projects and 
markets such as “project based nature” and “fragmented” construction process and 
participants (Ofori, 2003), the D-OLI model further proposes the location/market 
selection and entry mode strategies that integrate with the strategies for dynamically 
developing O-advantages.  
In the pre-international stage, the firms, relying on their core competence established 
in local markets, may begin to go abroad and collaborate with MNEs as a supporting 
partner or even subcontractors. JVs are often a good choice of entry mode during this 
stage. Thus, the market location may be changing frequently with the “partner following 
strategy.” The pre-internationals may follow their major collaborating partners, mostly 
experienced MNEs, to those countries that allow the firms to leverage their resources, 
learn, or accumulate good track records. The pre-international stage is particularly 
important for firms in the project-based construction industry. Then in the pre-MNE stage, 
the international-ready firms become capable of taking the role of project leaders in JVs 
or even to establish sole venture enterprises or subsidiaries in some countries. In this 
stage, the pre-MNEs may still be constrained by their scale, financing ability, market 
knowledge, or human capital etc and, therefore, the firms may use the “focused market 
seeking strategy” and limit their market locations to only a few that allow them to exploit 
the location and internalization advantages. Lastly, in the MNE stage, with very strong 
O-advantages, the firms can undertake projects in almost any countries with minor 
concerns of “psychic distance.” They regard the world as one market and compete for 
those global projects that promise excess profits. Thus, in terms of market location 
strategy, the MNEs in construction may tend to adopt the “dual opportunity-driven and 
focused-market strategy” so as to compete globally on all profitable projects and switch 
to focused-market strategy if there are enough market potentials. 
  19 
Economy. 2nd ed., Edward Elgar, Northampton, MA, USA. 
Geringer, J.M., P.W. Beamish, and R.C. DaCosta (1989). “Diversification Strategy and 
Internationalization: Implications for MNE Performance.” Strategic Management 
Journal, 10, 109-119. 
Gunhan S. and D. Arditi (2005). “Factors affecting international construction.” Journal of 
Construction Engineering and Management, 131(3), 273-282 
Johanson, J. and F. Wiedersheim-Paul (1975). “The Internationalization of the Firm-Four 
Swedish Cases.” Journal of Management Studies, 12(3), 305-322. 
Johanson, J. and J. Vahlne (1977). “The Internationalization Process of the Firm-A 
Model of Knowledge Development and Increasing Foreign Market Commitment.” 
Journal of International Business Studies, 8 (Spring/Summer), 23-32. 
Lu, J.W. and P.W. Beamish (2001). “The Internationalization and Performance of SMEs.” 
Strategic Management Journal, 22, 565-586. 
Lu, J.W. and P.W. Beamish (2004). “Internationalization Diversification and Firm 
Performance: The S-Curve Hypothesis.” Academy Journal of Management, 47(4), 
598-609. 
Luo, Y. (2000). “Dynamic Capabilities In International Expansion.” Journal of world 
business, 35(4), 355-378 
Ngowi, A.B., E. Pienaar, A. Talukhaba, and J. Mbachu (2005). “The Globalisation of the 
Construction Industry- a Review.” Building and Environment, 40, 135-141.  
Ofori, G. (2003). “Frameworks for Analysing International Construction.” Construction 
Management and Economics, 21, 379-391. 
Teece, J., G. Pisano, and A. Shuen (1997). “Dynamic capabilities and strategic 
management.” Strategic management journal, 18(7), 509-533. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期「100 年 11 月 5 日 
                                 
 一︾參加會議經過 
會議為期三天,進行順利,本人發表或許多人的讚許,本人並擔任其中一場次之 session 
chair. 
二︾與會心得 
該會議為營建管理在組織與策略研究之最重要會議,提供研究交流平台及許多合作機
會,本人與數位學者有許多討論並建立合作共識,收穫良多 
三︾考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99 ≒ 2628 ≒ E ≒ 002 ≒ 023 ≒ 
計畫名稱 營建業國際化之市場區域策略與夥伴選擇策略(1/2)	 
出國人員
姓名 
荷世平 
服務機構
及職稱 
台大土木系 副教授 
會議時間 
2010年 11月 4日
至 
2010 年 11 月 6 日 
會議地點 
Lake Tahoe, CA, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2010 工程計劃組織國際研討會 
(英文) 2010 Engineering Project Organization Conference 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 公司知識社群之知識分享激勵策略 
(英文)  
Motivating Knowledge Sharing in Communities of Practice 
附件四 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
Motivating Knowledge Sharing in Communities of 
Practice 
Chuan-Min Adam Wang1, Raymond E. Levitt2, S. Ping Ho3 
 
Abstract 
Effective knowledge management (KM) is critical to all organizations. 
However, it is especially difficult to implement in project-based sectors such as public 
or private sector procurement and construction: tacit knowledge gained during project 
execution diffuses when teams disband. Since knowledge-sharing (KS) behaviors are 
the cornerstone of successful KM systems, this research analyzes the 
knowledge-sharing dynamics under different KM strategies by using game-theoretic 
models, taking the viewpoint of employers. We solve Nash Equilibria by identifying 
associated conditions on each equilibrium path and derive implications from these 
conditions for KM strategies. Both tangible and social factors are considered. 
Ethnographic interviews are used in two U.S. companies. Comparing results from 
ethnographic interviews with previous studies, we categorize companies into four 
different groups based on two contingencies, the nature of knowledge mostly related 
to a company’s competitive advantage and the size of a company. Knowledge 
management strategies are developed accordingly for different groups of companies. 
Key words: knowledge management, knowledge sharing, game theory.  
 
 
 
 
 
1 Introduction 
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	   	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	   	  	  	  	  	  
1Graduate Student, Dept. of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Stanford University. Email: 
cmwang@stanford.edu 
2 Professor, Dept. of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Stanford University. Email: 
rel@stanford.edu 
3 Shimizu Visiting Associate Professor, Stanford University (currently); also Associate Professor, Dept. 
of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University. Email: spingho@stanford.edu or 
spingho@ntu.edu.tw 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
(Goh 2002; Ho et al., 2006, 2008). Viewing knowledge possessed as their personal 
assets is a fact commonly revealed later by our two sets of ethnographic interviews 
conducted in the U.S. Surprisingly, few studies have addressed the most fundamental 
element in knowledge management: the willingness of employees to share their 
knowledge. Most KM literature tends to focus on the "technology side" of KM such 
as platform design and knowledge warehousing issues. Unfortunately, many KM 
attempts involving costly and advanced high-tech information and communication 
systems died when employees were not motivated to share knowledge. In other 
words, ICT knowledge platforms failed due to the lack of knowledge input. Thus, in 
our research we focus on the first stage of Nissen’s knowledge-flow diagram, i.e., 
socialization/sharing, as a solid foundation for the following stages, to help 
organizations harness the power of their shared knowledge. 
Therefore, we expect to answer the following three questions in order to help 
decision makers in the construction industry facilitate, enhance, measure, and 
ultimately optimize their organizations’ knowledge flows: 
What are the drivers or barriers of knowledge sharing behaviors in 
organizations? 
We aim to study why employees decide to share or not share their knowledge. 
Are they dissatisfied with monetary rewards for sharing? Is their failure to share 
knowledge caused by factors such as excessive direct workload or not knowing with 
whom they can and should share? Or does the current knowledge management 
infrastructure not provide enough opportunities for knowledge contributors to gain 
respect and build their reputation?  
What are the model’s implications for the design of knowledge management 
systems and organizations? 
We build on the theory of knowledge sharing dynamics to advance the design of 
knowledge management infrastructure and platforms and organizational controls such 
as incentive systems, rewards, and organizational institutions. Furthermore, the 
interacting effects between KM infrastructure and organization structure on 
knowledge sharing may further complicate the KS problem. We expect to derive 
important requirements or characteristics of KM infrastructure from this new 
perspective. 
 
2 Literature and Points of departure 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
knowledge and sharing all promote knowledge management, an increase in 
multi-directional sharing leads to an exponential increase in knowledge management 
effectiveness. However, if the shared knowledge is not valuable to the receiver, 
“knowledge sharing” can lead to less productive organizations due to task 
interruption. 
The reward system is another key element associated with the effectiveness of 
knowledge sharing because it affects employees’ willingness to share what they 
know. Sometimes, knowledge sharing does not lead to short term financial benefits to 
organizations but it brings significant benefits in the long run. Hence, to promote 
knowledge sharing, the reward system should be broadly based on other dimensions 
of performance, such as successful knowledge sharing, co-operation, and teamwork, 
instead of on purely financial outcomes (Goh 2002). A good reward system should 
include fair assessment and explicit recognition of knowledge sharing in order to have 
a positive impact on knowledge providers (Bartol and Srivastava 2002). Moreover, 
according to Dyer and Nobeoka (2000), three methods to solve the knowledge sharing 
dilemma are (1) motivating employees and sharing knowledge openly, (2) preventing 
free riders, and (3) reducing the costs associated with valuable knowledge search and 
access. 
The research builds primarily upon the research by Ho, Hsu, Wu, and Lin on 
implications of a game-theoretic knowledge sharing model (2006, 2008, 2009). 
Effective knowledge management systems can help organizations avoid “reinventing 
the wheel” (Levitt, Scott and Javernick-Will 2007). We extend previous knowledge 
management research by focusing on understanding and modeling workers’ 
incentives to share knowledge, thereby enhancing the effectiveness and profitability 
of knowledge management systems. 
According to Ho et al. (2006) and Davenport and Prusak (1998), employees 
have three reasons to share their knowledge: monetary rewards, reputation and 
altruism. Interestingly, in a later empirical study by Ho et al. (2009), monetary 
rewards were found to have much less influence than either reputation or altruism on 
sharing behaviors of all types of knowledge. Furthermore, based on Ho at al. (2009), 
monetary rewards are not an effective approach to promote the sharing of desired or 
core types of knowledge for several reasons. The relatively small role of monetary 
reward was also noted in research conducted by Bobrow and Whalen (2002) on the 
well-known Xerox knowledge management system, “Eureka.” In Xerox’s widely 
admired Eureka system, service technicians stated that building a reputation for 
competence within their “natural community of practice” of fellow service technicians 
was a significant and major incentive for knowledge sharing. Including knowledge 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
Game theory has been successfully applied to many important economic issues. 
Moreover, a game-theoretic model can be an appropriate tool to predict what the 
optimal strategies are for organizations and employees, and the equilibrium 
conditions. In this research, we use game theory for theoretical investigation and 
analysis. We extensively use the conditions associated with each equilibrium path as 
indicators for our knowledge management strategy. We don’t directly argue the 
absolute value of each variable; instead, we aim to provide a set of knowledge 
management strategies affecting the relative value of each variable in order to 
satisfied the desired equilibrium conditions and, ultimately, to convert the Nash 
Equilibrium from one to another. Although we replicate Ho’s analysis steps, we have 
modified his game-theoretic model as previously described as the starting point. The 
model is refined again after our ethnographic interviews take place. New implications 
from the refined model are to be derived. 
In game theory, games are classified by the completeness of information as well 
as the way in which games are played (i.e., static games versus dynamic games). We 
will use a dynamic game with perfect information because: (1) players are able to 
observe others’ actions and (2) the game involves a series of sequential interactions 
between employees. A dynamic game model for knowledge sharing with perfect 
information can be defined, involving three steps. First, player 1 plays his strategy (an 
employee decides whether to share his/her knowledge). Second, player 2 observes 
player 1’s strategy. Finally, player 2 plays his strategy (another employee decides 
whether to share his/her knowledge) and the game ends. 
As rational players, they will choose the strategy which maximizes their 
benefits among these options and thus a backward induction solution is utilized in this 
research. The backward induction method is described as follows: 
max π2 (a1, a2) 
Given the action a1 previously chosen by player 1 for each scenario, the strategy that 
enables player 2 to maximize his payoff is his best response denoted by R2 (a1). 
max π1 (a1, R2 (a1)) 
Since player 1 should anticipate player 2’s reaction, R2 (a1), player 1 wants to 
maximize his payoff when player 2 plays R2 (a1). If player 1’s best response is 
denoted by a1*, we call (a1*, R2 (a1*)) the backward induction solution. 
Knowledge sharing behavior within organizations involves a trade-off between 
costs and payoffs. In game theory, people are assumed to be rational and a Nash 
Equilibrium is a set of choices by all of the players in the “game” which can be 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
 
 
4 The Game Model for Knowledge Sharing 
4.1 Previous Studies, Ethnography Study and the Selection of Model 
Variables 
 Model Variables in Previous Studies: 
Some of our key concepts of knowledge sharing and its modeling in this 
research are based on the game-theoretic model developed by Ho et al. (2006) as 
shown below. In the payoffs for each branch of the game tree (enclosed in parentheses 
on the right,), the expression before the comma is player 1’s (organization’s) payoff, 
and the expression for player 2’s (the employee’s) payoff is shown after the comma. 
Although variables are refined in this research, we represent players’ payoff in the 
same way.  
 
Figure 2. Game tree to be modified (adapted from Ho et al. 2006) 
Definitions of employee-related variables in Ho et al.’s (2006) model are as 
follows: 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
size of company is large. We add the variable, Bs, to represent the benefits 
from gaining professional reputation due to sharing knowledge. The 
reputation in this paper refers to an employee’s professional reputation such 
as how capable or knowledgeable professional an employee is. From our 
interviews, seeking reputation increase is found to be especially prominent in 
Company A, a company equipped with an enterprise-wide KM system. 
Employees have their identities in the KM system and everyone can see 
anyone’s basic profiles with no restrictions. Company A gives a special title 
“Subject Matter Expert (SME)” to honor employees who have expertise in 
their fields. Once an employee is awarded the SME title, the KM system will 
automatically attach “SME” to its profile; subsequently, when other users see 
the SME title, they know the SME’s expertise has been validated by the 
company. Company A also asks SMEs to bear the responsibility of 
answering a certain number of forum questions in their fields and this 
increases SMEs’ workload to some extent. In Company A, a large company, 
it is difficult to be recognized as SMEs, and therefore, employees see the 
SMEs as more professionally knowledgeable and the managers consider 
them professional more capable and will give them preferences in promotion. 
However, in Company B, a relatively small company, the reputational 
rewards in becoming a SME are much smaller than that in Company A.  
 From our interviews, we find that employees can also gain other intangible 
rewards through self-actualization. Ho et al.’s (2006) considered the benefit 
of self-actualization a side benefit of sharing knowledge, a benefit strongly 
associated with an employee’s personality. In our interviews, most 
informants who considered themselves as high achievers expressed that, no 
matter what others do, sharing their knowledge is the right thing to do and 
they see themselves adding a little bit of value to their organizations through 
sharing. In our modeling, we use a new variable, A, to represent the 
aforementioned intangible rewards from sharing knowledge. 
 Although γ1 and γ2 represent the explicit cost such as time spent for KS and 
implicit cost such as losing one’s job respectively, we found they have one 
thing in common. That is, both γ1 and γ2 can be converted to monetary values 
and combined together. Hence, for simplicity purposes, in this research we 
use a new variable, C, to represent both time spent for KS and job security 
concerns. 
 In fact, reputation is not restricted to professional reputation. Social 
reputation is another aspect of reputation of an individual in organizations. 
For example, in Company A, the SMEs enjoy and are proud of being 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
Table 2 summarizes variables used in our game-theoretic model: 
 
Table 2: Variables used in the game-theoretic model 
Variable        
(All positive) 
Description 
Bs 
Increase of Professional reputation from sharing knowledge. For example, a 
structural engineer shares how he solved problems in his recent project with his fellow 
team members. He may be recognized as an expert in his area and his supervisor may 
give higher preference in future promotion due to such formal or informal recognition. 
Bo 
Benefit of receiving knowledge shared by others. For example, a junior engineer who 
designs HVAC systems for residential buildings learns key differences between 
commercial and residential buildings from reading a thread on a forum posted by a 
senior engineer. The junior engineer’s knowledge in HVAC may be extended to the 
design of commercial buildings more easily. 
C 
Cost of knowledge sharing including both (1) time spent and (2) the possibility of 
losing one's job. For example, the only senior crane operator spends two hours sharing 
how to operate a crane on a rough terrain in a safe manner. However, hee could also be 
replaced by some junior crane operator when such knowledge is no longer unique. 
A 
Self-satisfaction from one's knowledge sharing. For example, an employee feels 
rewarded by being told "thank you so much for your help."  
R1 
Social rewards gained from sharing one’s own knowledge.  For example, after 
giving several professional recommendations, there is a common sense within the 
organization that this person is considered to be enthusiastic and good member of the 
community. 
R2 
Social punishment faced due to withholding one's knowledge. For example, 
employees despise those who intentionally withhold their knowledge while others are 
sharing.  
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
each scenario. Second, we assume that the CoP will be either a community that most 
people will share or a community that few will share. Given the second assumption, 
when the two person game yield a [share, share] solution, it means that the CoP is a 
sharing community, and when the game yield a [no, no] solution, it means that the 
CoP is a non-sharing Community. This assumption can be justified if the two person 
game also coincides with this assumption, because the equilibrium in a CoP can be 
implied by a two person game. Also note that although it might be difficult to 
determine precisely the value of every single model variable, to derive qualitative 
strategy implications does not require such precision. In this paper, we will focus on 
deriving qualitative implications from the Nash Equilibria of the game model.
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
Bs + Bo – C + R1 + A > 0 => Bs - C + R1 + A > - Bo 2.3 
 
[No, No] is the equilibrium path if:  
Bs + Bo – C + R1 + A < 0 => Bs - C + R1 + A < - Bo 2.4 
 
※[Share, Share] is the equilibrium path when 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3 are 
satisfied. However, since there is no clear relationship between Bo and R2, 
we don’t combine 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 altogether at the beginning; instead, 2.1 
and 2.2 are grouped together first and 2.3 is to be introduced after that. 
Combining 2.1 and 2.2, we see 0 > Bs - C + R1 + A > - R2. Although 
mathematically the inequality can be satisfied as long as R2 is equal or 
greater than zero, a small R2 doesn’t make much sense in practice. If R2 is 
small, Bs - C + R1 + A (total payoff excluding benefit from others) is to be 
even loser to zero and sharing knowledge under this circumstance doesn’t 
help change productivity much. Therefore, after combining 2.1 and 2.2, we 
believe that R2 has to be large for the equilibrium path [Share, Share] to 
make sense. Inequality 2.3 is now introduced and we see that the reason why 
[Share, Share] makes sense is that the total payoff after considering Bo is 
greater than zero. We therefore conclude that Bo has to be large for this to 
happen. The following are three associated conditions for equilibrium 
path [Share, Share]: 
 0 > Be - C + R1 + A > - R2 2.12 
 Be - C + R1 + A > - Be  2.3 
 Both R2 and Be are large. 
※[No, No] is the equilibrium path when 2.1, 2.2, and 2.4 are satisfied. 
- Be > Be - C+R1+A > - R2  2.124 
5.3 Player 2’s strategy [3]: “always don’t share” 
If [Share, No] or [No, No] is the equilibrium path, the following two 
conditions both have to be satisfied: 
 
Be - R2 > Be + Be - C + R1 + A => - R2 > Be - C + R1 + A 3.1 
0 > Bs - C + R1 + A  3.2 
 
[Share, No] is the equilibrium path if:  
Bs - C + R1 + A > 0  3.3 
 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
Strategy [3], 
always don't 
share 
[No, No] is the unique equilibrium path when: 
 0 > - R2 > Bs - C + R1 + A 
 
3.124 
Strategy [4], 
act differently 
no equilibrium path found.  
 
When the minimum payoff is greater than zero, i.e., Bs - C + R1 + A >0, 
[Share, Share] is the unique Nash Equilibrium from Strategy [1]. 
When the minimum payoff is less than zero, i.e., Bs - C + R1 + A <0, both 
[Share, Share] and [No, No] can be Nash Equilibria under different conditions 
from Strategy [2] and [3]. 
 
6 Contingent View of Knowledge Sharing Strategies in 
Communities of Practice 
6.1 Contingencies and their impacts on model variables 
In this paper, we introduce two contingency variables, company size and the 
nature of tasks to help companies determine their most possible Nash 
Equilibrium. 
 Company size: Company size has significant impact on the cost of 
knowledge sharing, C, and the reputational benefit of sharing one’s own 
knowledge, Bs. 
(a) For the cost of knowledge sharing, the major impact is not the time 
spent for sharing but primarily on the job security concerns. It is found 
from Ho et al.’s study (2006) on an engineering consulting firm in 
Taiwan which has 1000+ employees that their employees are quite 
concerned about losing their uniqueness or importance within the 
organization if they share their knowledge. However, from our 
interviews, especially with Company A (with 36,000 global 
employees), job security concerns are generally found to be less of a 
problem. The followings are sample quotes from a SME at Company 
A: 
 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
more bargaining power and are usually more resourceful, it is 
reasonable to say that being promoted to the next level in a large 
company brings more benefit to an individual than in a small company. 
For instance, the chief estimator from a large company has more 
resources and power than people with the same title from small 
companies. He may have the chance to be sent overseas taking some 
expensive lessons paid by his company and his words may weigh 
heavier than other chief estimators from small companies. 
 
We therefore assume that the reputational benefit of sharing one’s 
own knowledge, Bs, is generally larger in large companies and 
smaller in small companies. 
 Nature of tasks (task repetitiveness): The nature of tasks has significant 
impact on the benefit of receiving knowledge shared from others, Bo. 
Many of our informants from Company B feel that “Lessons Learned” is 
not particularly useful for their work because the content is usually 
project-specific and is difficult to be directly applied to future projects. On 
the contrary, informants from Company A feel that reading others’ KS 
postings is very useful for their work because much of the content of KS 
postings can be replicated to their work. The aforementioned difference in 
the usefulness of shared knowledge can be explained by the nature of tasks 
from the perspective of the re-utilization rate of existing knowledge, which 
is similar to the concept of “half-life of knowledge” (Javernick-Will and 
Levitt 2009). Here we limit the scope of nature of tasks to task 
repetitiveness because that is the contrast clearly found between Company 
A and Company B. Thus, we here assume that employees working for 
companies that mostly do non-repetitive work receive less benefit of the 
knowledge shared by others, whereas employees working for 
companies that mostly do repetitive work receive more benefit of the 
knowledge shared. 
Table 4: Contingencies and their impact on variables 
Contingencies Impact on variables 
Large company: small C and large Bs Company size 
Small company: large C and small Bs 
Nature of tasks Repetitive: large Bo 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
R1 + A is small, Bs - C + R1 + A is less than zero and the equilibrium path 
has to come from Strategy [2] or [3]. Because creative work provides a 
smaller Bo, [Share, Share] from Strategy [2] cannot be the equilibrium path. 
Either condition 2.124 or 3.124 is satisfied in this scenario and the 
equilibrium path adopted is [No, No] from Strategy [2] or [3]. 
 [Repetitive, Small]: With a large C and a small Bs due the nature of small 
companies, whether Bs - C + R1 + A is greater than zero cannot be 
determined without considering R1 + A. Similar to [Creative, Small], a 
large R1 + A makes Bs - C + R1 + A greater than zero. The satisfaction of 
the condition “Bs - C + R1 + A > 0 > - R2 (1.123)” leads to [Share, Share] as 
the equilibrium path. On the contrary, if R1 + A is small, Bs - C + R1 + A is 
less than zero and the equilibrium path has to come from Strategy [2] or [3]. 
In this case, the nature of repetitive work provides a large Bo so [Share, 
Share] is the equilibrium path if accompanied by a large R2. If both R1 + A 
and R2 are small, [No, No] from Strategy [2] or [3] becomes the 
equilibrium path. 
Table 5: Equilibrium path placement 
Equilibrium Path(s) 
 Large company (small C, large Bs) Small company (large C, small Bs) 
Creative 
work 
(small Bo) 
Small C and large Bs  Bs - C + R1 
+ A generally greater than zero  
the Nash Equilibrium is: 
 [Share, Share] from [1] 
Large C and small Bs  Bs - C + R1 + A generally smaller 
than zero  the Nash Equilibrium is: 
 [Share, Share] from [1] if R1 + A is large 
 [No, No] from [2]or [3] if R1 + A is small 
Repetitive 
work 
(large Bo) 
Small C and large Bs  Bs - C + R1 
+ A generally greater than zero  
the Nash Equilibrium is: 
 [Share, Share] from [1] 
Large C and small Bs  Bs - C + R1 + A generally smaller 
than zero  the Nash Equilibrium is: 
 [Share, Share] from [1] if R1 + A is large 
 [Share, Share] from [2] if R1 + A is small but R2 is 
large 
 [No, No] from [2] or [3] if both R1 + A and R2 are 
small 
 
6.3 Discussions about Company A and Company B 
 Company A: Company A gives their SMEs a 24-hour window to answer 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
initiate and deliver projects. Although project-specific and team-specific is 
the nature of the construction industry, sometimes companies still can apply 
practice of previous projects to new projects by slightly modifying it. 
Employees in Company B, however, usually find applying others’ previous 
learning to new projects of little benefit to increase the productivity because 
projects are drastically different from each other. Informants expressed that 
the current best practices in Company B are very general so that users still 
have to consult with others to make appropriate modifications. Sometimes 
it takes more effort to make those modifications than starting from the 
scratch. The following sample quotes are commonly found from Company 
B: 
 
“What’s standard here might not be standard in another location” 
“We tend to not repeat things exactly” 
 
We started to think about maybe knowledge sharing is not as beneficial as 
we expected before until we heard the following quote: 
 
“Oh, absolutely! I think any time you’re sharing information, or if I am a 
presenter for example, just the fact that I had to prepare to do the Lessons 
Learned presentations helps solidify those things in my mind. And 
remembering them helps me maybe think about them at a little bit deeper 
level than I already had because the fact that I am going to be presenting. 
In addition, people ask questions that maybe cause you to think about 
things that you have never thought about.” 
 
Our discovery from this quote is that knowledge sharing can be beneficial 
to two groups of people, knowledge contributors and knowledge receivers. 
Previously knowledge sharing is considered to be beneficial only to people 
who learn by receiving knowledge from others. However, here we found 
that knowledge sharing can also be beneficial to the knowledge contributors 
by reasons such as increasing their level of understanding of subjects. 
Accordingly, we added related questions to our interviews with the 
remaining informants from Company B and almost all informants 
expressed their level of understanding increases after sharing their 
knowledge. We incorporate this finding to our game-theoretic model by 
introducing variable Bs and Bo. The impact of creative work is on Bo rather 
than Bs and Bs is discussed in the following paragraph. 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
administrative KS cost such as posting and searching. Clear internal 
policies with history backing up showing employees, especially newly 
hired, that no one was replaced after KS can reduce job security concerns 
and provide assurance to some degree. The above are all practical practices 
to reduce KS cost but no matter how diligently companies try, KS cost 
should have a minimal value which cannot be reduced anymore. Therefore, 
large companies should focus on the other factor, the benefit of sharing 
one’s own knowledge (Bs), to increase the perceived benefit to knowledge 
contributors and to make large companies real “large.” Of the three 
elements of Bs, expertise recognition is considered the most viable option to 
produce a large Bs. There has to be a clear link between KS and its 
associated expertise recognition to encourage KS in large companies. 
This again can be seen from the successful KM system used by Company A 
and the Eureka system used by Xerox. Both systems provide an 
enterprise-wide way of recognizing individuals’ KS behavior and as a result, 
individuals’ expertise is recognized. Because Company A and Xerox are 
both large companies with offices around the globe, the amount of expertise 
recognition can be significant if recognition mechanism is used 
appropriately. 
 [Creative, Small] and [Repetitive, Small]: Unlike large companies, there 
exist clear difference between [Creative, Small] and [Repetitive, Small] but 
the common feature we see from both types of companies is that R1 + A 
becomes a determining factor of the equilibrium path. The role of R1 + A 
played in large companies is fairly small but for small companies, what 
path is adopted as the equilibrium path highly depends on the value of R1 + 
A. By its nature, small companies don’t have the help of large Bs so the 
importance of R1 + A becomes significant. Although certain training may 
push individuals to pursue a higher level of self-satisfaction, 
self-satisfaction is generally considered as personality-related and is more 
difficult to be changed independently. Because individuals may be more 
self-satisfied when they see their status or reputation in their CoPs increases, 
i.e., a large R1 may lead to a large A, small companies doing creative 
work should focus on creating environment with strong social reward 
(large R1). Although strong social reward is also an effective tool for small 
companies doing repetitive work, their action space is larger than those 
doing creative work. Either strong social reward (large R1) or strong 
social punishment (large R2) can be effective to encourage KS in small 
companies doing repetitive work. 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
social reward is not as easy as expected, always looking for high achievers that carry a 
large A may be helpful to encourage KS. 
An immediate future research is to conduct two series of ethnographic 
interviews with the remaining two types of companies, [Repetitive, Small] and 
[Creative, Large] to further confirm or refine our results. It is also important to note 
that the two companies where ethnographic interview take place are both in the 
construction industry and this industry is known for its project-based nature. Although 
our findings from the game-theoretic model are in accordance with our interviews 
with Company A and Company B those findings may not be entirely true for 
companies in other industries due to different industry nature.  
This research shows how the use of social mechanisms can improve KS 
participation in CoPs and companies, future work may investigate how company 
structure, internal policies, and actual practices are related to social reward and 
punishment. Also, future research may incorporate other dimensions such as the 
half-life of knowledge (Javernick-Will and Levitt 2009) or company growth, to our 
existing two contingencies, to provide more refined KM approaches. 
 
8 Reference 
Alberts, D. S. and Hayes, R. E. (2003). “Power to the Edge: Command, Control in the 
Information Age." Washington, D.C.: CCRP Publication Series, 2003 
Appleyard, M. (1996), “How Does Knowledge Flow? Interfirm Patterns in the 
Semiconductor Industry”. Strategic Management Journal, 17: 137-154.” 
Bartol, K. M. and Srivastava, A. (2002). “Encouraging knowledge sharing: The role 
of organizational reward systems,” Journal of Leadership & Organizational 
Studies; Summer 2002; 9, 1; ABI/INFORM Global, P. 64. 
Bobrow, D. G.and Whalen, J. Community knowledge sharing in practice: the Eureka 
story. Reflections, the SOL Journal. 2002 Winter; 4 (2): 47-59. 
Cabrera, A. and Cabrera, E. F. (2002). “Knowledge-Sharing Dilemmas.” Organization 
Studies, vol. 23, issue 5, 2002 
Connolly, T and Thorn B. K. (1990). “‘Discretionary databases: theory, data, and 
implications”, Organizations and communication technology journal: Fulk and C. 
Steinfield (eds.), 219-233. London: Sage. 
Davenport, T. H. and Prusak, L.  (1998). “Working Knowledge.” Harvard Business 
School Press, Boston 
Dyer, J. H and Nobeoka, K (2000). “Creating and Managing a High-Performance 
Knowledge-Sharing Network: The TOYOTA Case.” Strategic Management 
Proceedings	  –	  EPOC	  2010	  Conference	  
	  
	  
Advanced Project Management Program, http://apm.stanford.edu   
Nissen, M. E. (2006). “Harnessing Knowledge Dynamics: Principled Organizational 
Knowing and Learning.” 
Nonaka, I. (1994). "A Dynamic Theory of Organizational Knowledge Creation." 
Organization science, 5(1), 14-37. 
Paulson, B. C. J. (1976). "Designing to Reduce Construction Costs." Journal of the 
Construction Division 102(4): 587-592. 
Polanyi, M. (1967), “The Logic of Tacit Inference.” Philosophy, 41(1): p.1-18, 1966. 
Robbins, S. P. and Decenzo, D. A. (2004). “Fundamentals of Management.” Prentice 
Hall. 
Wikipedia (2009).   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generation_Y 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：荷世平 計畫編號：99-2628-E-002-023- 
計畫名稱：營建業國際化之市場區域策略與夥伴選擇策略(1/2) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
已有兩篇國際期刊論文被接受,另有一篇國際期刊論文已大致撰寫完成待投稿中 (該文之
前身已於國際研討會發表). 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
全球化之熱潮亦已擴及到營建產業，使國際化成為全球營建業者之重要策略議題。因應全
球化熱潮，國際化之相關研究繁多。因此，如何依據不同的情境採取有效的策略進行國際
化，乃國際化成功之關鍵要素之一。本計劃第一年之研究專注於國際化市場區域與進入策
略選擇與相關之策略影響因子，以提供進行國際化之營造廠與顧問公司之策略決策參考。
研究發現制度環境與因素(Institutional environments)對於企業在不同區域時之進入策
略有重大影響,並進而影響企業對於某些區域的選擇與經營策略. 
 
如何推動營建業國際化實為ㄧ複雜之議題，亦為一專門之學術領域，然而營建管理學術領
域中鮮少有探討究竟何種因子會影響企業採取不同之國際化在不同區域的進入策略與影
響因子。本研究針對此議題整合了國際化之 OLI 理論與制度理論,創新的提出動態的 OLI
國 際 化 模 型 並 將 制 度 性 環 境 與 Owner's advantage, Locational advantage, 
Internalization advantage（O, L, I） 三因素之互動進行深入之研究.研究之成果提供
工程與營建之管理研究領域重要的新發現與創見,對於欲國際化或正在進行國際化之跨國
企業之策略管理提供重要之策略思考模型.本研究目前研究之市場偏重跨國公司所注目之
新興市場與國家,如中國；未來此研究可發展至進一步將其與已開發國家或開發中國家進
行比較分析,以提出完整之國際化市場進入之情境策略理論. 
 
