行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
游泳學習與練習裝置設計研究 
A Design Study on the Learning Device and Exercising Device for Swimming 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-027-083  
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人  ：陳正光      國立台北科技大學機械工程系 
計畫參與人員：黃哲男、王元駿、張秉文 國立台北科技大學機電所/製科所 研究生 
           
 
一、摘要 
游泳是一項有益的運動健身活動，目前各項游泳
的學習器並沒有，而游泳池數量及開放時間皆受到限
制，因此對想要學游泳或是想要游泳健身的人而言，
皆相當不便。本研究旨在研發一種蛙式游泳學習器/
健身練習器及一種自由式游泳學習器/健身器，其主
要目的是提供給初學者或利用游泳做健身或復健者
使用，不需要進入游泳池游泳而可達到游泳效果，增
加學習及健身或復健的便利性。本研究首先利用量測
取得的蛙式及自由式游泳時手腕、手肘、膝關節及踝
關節的空間軌跡，再分別設計以 X、Y、Z 三個方向
的凸輪機構來重現，以之帶動使用者手腳做正確的蛙
式或自由式動作，此為學習器的設計。健身器的設計
則依據計算游泳時的阻力，設計手部及腿部的負載裝
置，配合相關的機構，成為練習器。此研發設計藉由
Solidworks 軟體，進行尺寸合成，並進行動態模擬，
已驗證此設計符合需求及其可行性。 
 
關鍵詞: 蛙式、自由式、凸輪、學習器、健身器 
 
Abstract 
   Swimming, one kind of sports and exercises, is 
very good for health. However, there is no learning or 
exercising device for swimming, and the swimming 
pools are not enough and their available open hours are 
not enough as well. It is very inconvenient for the 
beginners and persons who take swimming as a regular 
exercise. This study presents a new design of learning/ 
exercising device for learning swimming and swim 
exercise without the facility of swimming pools. It could 
increase the convenience of learning, exercising and 
rehabilitating. Firstly, we analyzed the paths of hands’ 
and legs’ motion and path for breaststroke and freestyle. 
The results of this analysis are used to synthesize the 
required cam mechanisms to perform such specified 
motions and to guide the swimming beginners to follow 
the exact paths of hands and legs. This is the main 
principle for design the learning device. By 
approximately calculating the resisting forces during 
swimming, the results are used to design the required 
load devices for hand and leg. The load devices and the 
other required mechanisms consist of the exercising 
device. This design study uses Solidworks software to 
do dimensional synthesis and simulations. The results of 
simulations have confirmed the design requirements and 
the feasibility of these devices. 
 
Keywords: Breaststroke、Freestyle、Cams、Learning 
Device、Exercise Device 
 
二、緣由與目的 
目前政府所推動「健康台灣」的施政政策，其六
大規劃重點包括「國民身心健康」、「政府體質健康」、
「社會互信健康」、「環境永續健康」、「經濟體制健康」
以及「生活品質健康」，其中「國民身心健康」的重
點正好突顯出體育運動在政策推動的重要性。除此之
 1
擬，以便瞭解可能發生之問題，並加以改善，
使其設計更為完善，並證實這些裝置設計的可
行性。 
 
四、研究結果與討論 
4.1 專利文獻分析與評估的結果 
   現有專利文獻皆以健身器材為主，例如參考文
獻[5~8]，在運動上也無法給使用者確實的手腳運
動軌跡，而且都是一種主動式的設計，無法提供給
初學者學習蛙式或自由式游泳。而健身練習器的設
計的另一個缺點是在運動過程中，給予的負荷與實
際游泳時所受的負荷完全不同。 
4.2 手腳運動路徑的擷取 
   將蛙式及自由式游泳的動態影片[9]利用影片處理
軟體，擷取定格的靜態圖片，這些圖片動作也經過實
際動態影片比對無誤。每一個完整的蛙式及自由式游
泳的動作共擷取十六個位置的圖片，每一位置皆有三
視圖。在十六張三視圖中分別擷取手腕、手肘、膝蓋
及腳踝座標，作為製作路徑產生機構的依據，但擷取
的數據經過分析並非很正確，因為動畫尺寸有些微差
異，主要是手腳的長度在每一圖片會有差異，所以根
據人體計測資料庫[10]，取靜態圖片的角度及正確的
人體尺寸重新擷取座標，經調整後得到正確的路徑軌
跡，如圖 1、2 所示為蛙式游泳左手及右腳的空間路
徑圖。 
4.3 機構構想設計 
4.3.1 蛙式游泳學習器設計 
    蛙式游泳運動主要拘束部位為手腕、手肘、膝
關節及踝關節，因此需要四組獨立機構帶動使用者
各部位作動，此四組獨立機構連桿組的設計及作動
方式是相似的，主要不同在於各部位運動路徑範圍
不一，機構尺寸的設計需有規格上的考量，但連桿
組的基本架構都是相同的，因此，以手腕運動路徑
輸出裝置為例作說明。由於此裝置輸出運動的主要
機構元件為凸輪，若以實際游泳運動路徑設計凸輪
輪廓，在材料成本、體積及重量上都會過於龐大且
笨重，而且連帶地使其它的機構勢必也必需很龐
大，因此，將凸輪尺寸縮小為原凸輪尺寸的六分之
ㄧ，使凸輪在空間配置、重量及材料成本都能有顯
著降低的情形，然而其所輸出之運動路徑也為原來
的六分之ㄧ，因此輸出路徑的連桿組必須具有放大
的效果，所以設計一輸出運動放大機構，如圖三所
示。手腕路徑驅動裝置主要由 X、Y、Z 凸輪輸出
左手腕的運動路徑，經由從動件推動連桿組，進而
帶動放大機構作動，如圖 4 所示。考量空間配置的
限制及動力輸入的方便性，X 軸向凸輪由原始位置
移動至 Y 軸向位置，因此設計一轉向機構使 X 軸
向位移能正確輸出路徑，當 X 軸向凸輪推動從動件
時，從動件則透過齒輪帶動 T 型從動件作等比例路
徑輸出，如此將 X 軸向路徑作轉向輸出。XY 軸向
凸輪利用同一軸心桿帶動，如圖 4 所示，X、Y 軸
向凸輪分別推動 T 型從動件，由兩 T 型從動件交會
點處輸出 XY 運動路徑至路徑輸出桿件，而 X、Y
凸輪 T 型從動件滑槽長度，是根據 X、Y 軸向從動
件相對運動範圍來決定。Z 軸方向的輸出裝置如圖
5 所示；至於整體蛙式游泳學習器的設計，則如圖
6 所示。詳細的設計與分析請參考[11]。 
4.3.2 蛙式游泳練習器設計 
    游泳練習器必需具備負載的設計，因此首先粗
略估算蛙式游泳的運動路徑中阻力，如圖 7、8 所示，
據此而設計的阻力機構如圖 9 所示。由於考慮使用
蛙式游泳健身練習器者應該已經具備某種程度的蛙
式游泳能力，因此其手腳動作將不予以約束，所以
整體蛙式游泳練習器的設計，只以考慮具備負載的
要求為主，如圖 10 所示。詳細的設計與分析請參考
[12]。 
4.3.3 自由式游泳學習器設計 
    自由式游泳學習器的設計概念類似於蛙式游泳
學習器，根據運動軌跡分析結果，由三個軸向凸輪
分別負責驅動 X、Y、Z 軸的運動，再經由放大機
構做最後的輸出，圖 11 所示即為此學習器中的手腕
路徑運動驅動機構。由於自由式的左右手動作相同
但有相位差，因此可將左右手手腕的凸輪機構縮減為
一組，但在 Z 軸向方面將其凸輪縮減為一組作左右手
之動作會導致機構設置過度複雜，因此放置 2 個 Z 軸
向凸輪來達到左右手的動作。肩膀動作則由圖 12 所
 3
圖表彙整 
 
圖1：左手空間路徑圖（等角視圖） 
 
 
圖2：右腳空間路徑圖（等角視圖） 
 
圖3：放大機構等角視圖 
 
圖4：手腕XY軸向凸輪從動件上視圖 
 
 
承托元件 
路徑放大機構 
圖5：手腕路徑驅動裝置前視圖 
 
                                
 
圖6：蛙式游泳學習器(等角視圖) 
 
圖7：左上肢蛙式游泳運動路徑中阻力變化 
 
 
圖8：右下肢蛙式游泳運動路徑中阻力變化 
X 軸向 T 型從動件 
Y 軸向 T 型從動件 
Y 軸向凸輪 
X 軸向凸輪 
Z 軸向凸輪從動件 Z 軸向凸輪 
手腕承托元件 
手肘承托元件 
俯臥平檯 
膝關節承托元件 
踝關節承托
 5
 （可供推廣之研發成果資料表在下一頁） 
 
 
原始軌跡  
模擬軌跡  
 
 
圖17 蛙式游泳手腕軌跡比較(等角視圖)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 圖 18 自由式游泳學習器軌跡比對圖 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7
 行 政 院 國 家 科 學 委 員 會 補 助 國 內 專 家 學 者 出 席 國 際 學 術 會 議 報 告   
                                 97 年 8 月 1 日 
報  告  人 
 
姓    名 
陳  正  光 
 
蕭  威  廉 
服 務 機 構
 
及  職  稱
台北科技大學機械系副教授 
台北科技大學機電整合研究所研究
生兼任助理 
    時 間 
會 議 
    地 點 
July 28-30, 2008 
    
 大連, 中國 
本 會 核 定
 
補 助 文 號
 
 
 
會議名稱 
中國機構與機器科學國際研討會議暨海峽兩岸第四屆機構學研討會(簡稱
CCMMS2008) 
發 表 論 文 題 目 
 
Evaluation of the potential folding mechanisms for folding umbrellas 
 
一、參加會議經過 
2008/07/27(日)  由桃園機場出發抵達北京。 
2008/07/28(一)  前往大連理工大學報到，參加會議。 
2008/07/29(二)  參加論文發表會，張理事長代表台灣發表第一篇論文；同時在會場
上聆聽其他學者的發表論文，收集研究資料並討論研究心得。 
2008/07/30(三)  其他人員參加論文發表；全程以英文發表；在會場上聆聽其他學者
的專題報告，收集研究資料並交換研究心得。 
2008/07/31(四)  收集研究資料並交換研究心得。啟程返國。 
 
      中國機構與機器科學國際研討會議，自 1982 年成立以來，已經成功的在中國舉辦
過十五屆全國性的研討會，自第十六屆起成為國際性的會議，並命名為 CCMMS(中國機構
和機器科學會議)。 
      本次第十六屆中國機構與機器科學國際研討會暨海峽兩岸第四屆機構學研討會，主
辦單位是燕山大學與大連理工大學，會議地點原先訂為秦皇島市，但受到 2008 奧運會影
響，於七月十五日臨時公告變更會議地點，改至大連市東北電網有限公司培訓中心，召開
本次會議。徵稿在今年三月底截止，然後進行審稿，並於五月中旬通知審稿結果，六月中
旬徵文定稿。本次會議經過嚴謹的審核後，來自台灣、中國、日本、美國、英國、德國及
義大利等等，各國學者的論文共 105 篇，我國有 30 篇左右被接受發表，佔論文總數約三
分之一。「海峽兩岸機構學學術研討會」每兩年由我方與大陸方面輪流舉辦。本屆會議因
為對方與國際會議合辦，所以採用以英文為大會的正式語言。本次會議有美國、英國、義
大利、俄羅斯、日本、台灣、以及大陸等學者參加，世界 IFToMM 學會的義大利籍主席
Ceccarelli 亦出席本次會議，可見本次會議亦受到世界總會的重視。現代機構學已經包括
了彈性機構、撓性機構、機器人機構、仿生機構、以及微型機構等方面的研究，應適應現
代機構產品創新的需求，研究以執行機構系統設計為核心的機械產品創新設計的理論、方
法和設計平台，所以本會議主題訂為 “融合高新技術，推動機械產品創新設計與機構學
現代化＂。大會共收錄了 105 篇論文，其中專題報告 7 篇、機構與機器概念設計 12 篇、
連桿、凸輪與齒輪機構 20 篇、機構和機器動力學 12 篇、機器人機構和控制 21 篇、廣義
 三、考察參觀活動 
      大會雖然有安排考察參觀活動，但是本人並未參加。 
 
四、建議 
    1.希望研討會主辦單位臨時更改會議召開地點時，能夠再考慮的更加全方面一些，不
僅會場的交通不方便，會場住宿房間有限，發表場地過於狹小且沒有電腦可供發表者上傳
檔案，種種缺失都值得此次主辦單位作進一步的檢討與改進。 
    2.台灣應該更加積極爭取主辦此類型國際研討會，不僅可以提高我國的知名度，更可
增加國內學者參與國際研討會的意願，以及與世界各國學者進行學術交流的機會。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 會議論文集一本 
2. 大連市相關的旅遊資料 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(發表之論文附在下一頁) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 Introduction 
Due to the advantages of easy to fold and carry, folding umbrella has become very popular. Therefore, there are more and 
more people intend to use folding umbrella.  
However, it is very common to see a folding umbrella destroyed by strong wind. Obviously the rib structure of umbrella is 
the critical part to stand against the wind force. Different rib structures result in different capabilities to stand wind force. The rib 
structure is also the folding mechanism of a folding umbrella. Different folding mechanisms also result in different folding length. 
Though there are many different designs of folding mechanism for folding umbrella, there is no analysis or evaluation of those 
different designs in the literature. This paper presents the evaluation of those potential folding mechanisms with 
six-link-seven-joint, eight-link-ten-joint and ten-link-thirteen-joint obtained by the authors [1, 2]. Based on the related dimensions 
of a commercial folding umbrella, we perform the dimensional synthesis of those potential folding mechanisms, and follow by 
the simulations through ADAMS software and check the folding length and the maximum joint force for each potential folding 
mechanism. Finally, use the folding length and maximum joint force as the criteria to pick up good designs from those potential 
folding mechanisms.  
Regarding the literature of folding mechanisms of umbrella and the potential kinematic mechanisms obtained by the authors, 
please refer to [1, 2]. A brief of the potential mechanisms from [1, 2], which were obtained by applying Yan’s Creative 
Mechanism Design methodology [3], is as follows.  
(A) Folding mechanisms of two-section folding umbrella 
Only six-link seven-joint (6, 7) Watt kinematic chain is qualified as a folding mechanism of two-section folding umbrella. 
There are six potential mechanisms yielded from Watt chain by Yan’s Creative Mechanism Design methodology, in which 
includes three mechanisms from the patents.  
(B) Folding mechanisms of three-section folding umbrella 
Two eight-link ten-joint (8, 10) kinematic chains are satisfied for the folding mechanism of three-section folding umbrella. 
There are 20 potential mechanisms yielded from these two kinematic chains by Yan’s Creative Mechanism Design methodology, 
in which includes four mechanisms from the patents. 
(C) Folding mechanisms of four-section folding umbrella 
Five ten-link thirteen-joint (10, 13) kinematic chains are satisfied for the folding mechanism of four-section folding 
umbrella. Applying Yan’s Creative Mechanism Design methodology, it yields 69 specialized kinematic chains. Among those 69 
specialized chains, 64 chains are degenerated and could not be used for four-section folding. Therefore, there are five 
specialized kinematic chains left. Among the corresponding mechanisms of those five specialized chains, only one can’t be 
found in the existing patents. 
 
2 Dimensional Synthesis of (6,7), (8,10) and (10,13) Folding Mechanisms of Folding 
Umbrella 
Taking the dimensions of a commercial umbrella as reference to set the related dimensions for the folding umbrella, we 
performed the dimensional synthesis for those potential mechanisms mentioned in the previous section. The dimensional 
synthesis should satisfy the basic function of opening and folding an umbrella. Moreover, we also expect the folding length to be 
minimized in order to effectively decrease the occupied space. In addition, the strength of each joint of folding mechanism should 
be strong enough to stand the wind force from underneath to avoid overturning or damage. The related dimensions for all the 
 Then, check if all the members of each mechanism can fold with the principal link (frame) when the input slider slides to the 
bottom limited position. The folding length of each one, thereafter, could be recorded for the purpose of comparison. Fig. 4 
shows a (8, 10) specialized chain and its two models corresponding to two isomorphic kinematic diagrams.  
 
▲Fig. 4: A (8, 10) specialized chain and its two corresponding kinematic diagrams. 
 
The mechanism shown in Fig. 5 represents a commercial three-section folding umbrella [4, 6] and is corresponding to the 
(M, 1) and (M, 5) in Fig. 4.  If we compare the folding length of Fig. 5 with that of Fig. 6, we would find that the folding 
umbrella in Fig. 6 is better than that in Fig.5 because of significantly short folding length, i.e., it would take less space after 
folding. From the comparison of the above two mechanisms, we know that the folding length would be significantly different for 
those isomorphic mechanisms which are derived from the same specialized chain. 
 
▲Fig. 5: The close /open simulation of (M,1) mechanism in Fig.4 and its corresponding displacement of input slider (160.8 mm) 
 
 
▲Fig. 6: The close /open simulation of (M,5) mechanism in Fig.4 and its corresponding displacement of slider (92.35 mm) 
 
3.3 Analysis of joint force under the action of wind force 
The purpose of analyzing joint force under the action of wind force is to find which configuration of the potential folding 
mechanisms is stronger in standing against wind force. Through the simulations in ADAMS under the same wind force, we can 
investigate the reaction force of each joint in each potential mechanism. The maximum reaction force of joint for each 
mechanism will be recorded and compared with that of the others. The one has the mini-maximum joint force represents better 
structure design to stand the wind force. Though there are some improvements on the material used for folding mechanisms in 
order to strengthen the ability to stand wind force, however, as far as the authors know there is no investigation on the strength 
of different configurations of folding mechanisms. Due to the limited pages of this paper, in the following we only present the 
results of better folding mechanism designs from each special kinematic chain by ADAMS. The criteria include the 
displacement of the input slider, and the maximum joint force of each potential mechanism under the wind force NFW 50= . In 
  
▲Fig. 10: The maximum joint force for #2-(M, 12) specialized (8, 10) kinematic chain. 
 
 
▲Fig. 11: The maximum joint force for #5-(M,5) specialized (8, 10) kinematic chain. 
 
 
▲Fig. 12: The maximum joint force for #7-(M, 13) specialized (8, 10) kinematic chain. 
 
 
 Fig. 13 to Fig.17 are from the (10, 13) four-section folding umbrellas which show where is the maximum joint reaction 
force and its magnitude. The maximum joint reaction forces are 976.9N, 740.7N, 849.1N, 867.5N and 762.4N for Fig. 13 to 
Fig.17, respectively. It is obvious that the design of Fig. 14 is the best design among Fig. 13 to Fig.17 in standing against the 
same wind force. 
 
 
  
▲Fig. 17: The maximum joint force for #4-(4j) specialized (10, 13) kinematic chain 
 
3.4 Results  
   Table 1 lists the results for (6, 7) two-section umbrellas. Consider both the folding length and mini-maximum joint force, it 
is obvious that (M, 5) is the best design (shown in Fig. 8). #3-(M, 5) has been used in the existing patent [7]. 
Due to the limitation of pages, only the simulating results of 4 mechanisms for (8, 10) three-section umbrellas are listed in 
Table 2. The results of other 16 mechanisms are not included. However, the results of those 4 mechanisms are better than that of 
the other 16. From Table 2, it is obvious that the #1-(M, 5) design (shown in Fig. 9) is the best among the total 20 mechanisms 
under the criteria of folding length and mini- maximum joint force. This design has been used in the existing patent [6]. 
The simulating results of 5 mechanisms for (10, 13) four-section umbrellas are listed in Table 3. From Table 3, the #4-(4d) 
has the shortest folding length and #2-(2c) has the mini- maximum joint reaction force. However, the difference in folding length 
between #4-(4d) and #2-(2c) is only about 9 mm (about 10%) while the difference in maximum joint force between #4-(4d) and 
#2-(2c) is about 127 N (about 14%). In this case, we think the strength is more important than the folding length. Therefore, the 
#2-(2c) design (shown in Fig. 14) is the best among the 5 mechanisms under the criteria of folding length and mini maximum 
joint force. This design, as far as the authors know, has not been used in the current commercial umbrellas or found in the patents. 
 
Table 1: The simulating results of (6, 7) two-section umbrella 
Chain  
# 
Criteria 
2- 
(M,3) 
 [5] 
2- 
(M,4) 
[6] 
3- 
(M,5) 
[7] 
4- 
(M,6) 
4- 
(M,7)
4- 
(M,8)
A(mm) 143.2 156.4 240.2 213.8 115.3 373.1
B(N) 718.5 487.5 180 2217 1926 314
Note: In the Table, A represents the displacement of input slider and B the maximum joint force. The chain with mark * represents from the existing patent. 
 
 
Table 2: The simulating results of (8, 10) three-section umbrellas for Fig. 9to Fig.12 
Chain # 
 
Criteria 
1- 
(M,5) 
[6] 
2- 
(M,12) 
[6] 
5- 
(M,5) 
7- 
(M,13) 
[4] 
A(mm) 92.35 103.1 101.7 160.8 
B(N) 534.1 909.2 1125 763.3 
 
 
 
