 3
even more, they can show many motions.  
   With the capability of aligning CNTs, a 
transimpedance amplifier is designed to realize 
the CNT sensor. Because the single CNT 
attachment is not needed in this application, the 
process becomes easy. The measurement 
results have proven the idea of CNT-CMOS 
integration and revealed the functionalities in 
the future. 
   
 
 
Fig. 1 Schematic of the OP 
TIA Design 
    When designing an amplifier at low 
frequency, how to reduce the 1/f noise is a 
commonly encountered problem. The 
schematic of the adopted operational amplifier 
is shown in Fig. 1. The PMOS (M1,M2) was 
adopted in the input as a Gm stage and the 
channel width/length is as large as 
1000um/20um. The tremendous width and 
length were aimed to diminish the 1/f noise of 
transistors and result in a better noise 
performance. The second stage configured as a 
common-source amplifier (M6) is to boost the 
voltage gain. As can be seen, Cc in this stage is 
designed to compensate frequency response so 
the stability of the entire circuit will be more 
satisfactory. Concerning the requirement of low 
voltage operation (low Vdd), the class-AB 
configure was applied in the output stage to 
generate a rail to rail voltage response. 
The output impedance can be derived as: 
1901919181818 // RrgRrgRout mom≅  
The overall voltage gain is: 
outputvgainvinputvtotalv AAAA ,,,, ××=  
Where 
( )4022,1, // ominputv rrgA −≅  
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
+
+−≅
1313
1311
141414766, 1
//////
om
oo
omoomgainv rg
rrRrgrrgA
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
++
⋅−≅
19191918181819
1818181919
, RrgRrgr
RrgrgA
omomo
omom
outputv  
 
Simulation of frequency response is depicted in 
Fig. 2, showing an overall gain of 116dB with 
the bandwidth of 3.66KHz.  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Simulation Results of the OP 
After the operational amplifier was 
designed, a TIA utilized as a gas sensor was 
organized as Fig. 3. In Fig. 3, R represents the 
resistance of CNTs affected by the gas and Iin 
represents an ac current enforced through the 
 5
the solution and adding alternating currents 
(5Vpp 10MHz) through them, a patterned 
electric field is generated for positioning in the 
solution. The next step is to coordinate the 
on-chip electrodes, letting the SWCNTs deposit 
on them. Once the solution was blow dried 
with nitrogen, the CNT placement was done. 
The detailed chip photo is depicted in Fig. 5. 
 
 
Fig. 5 The CNT placement result 
 
Experimental Results and Discussions 
The experimental results are shown in Fig. 
6, which indicate an obvious response of the 
gas sensor to a breath. The reaction time is as 
quick as one second and the recovery time is 
also very short. However, the concentration of 
a breath is quite large as several thousands of 
ppm, so this gas sensor can easily detect the 
difference. If a more precise concentration is to 
be detected, a TIA with higher gain is required. 
The distinguishable current different of the TIA 
is ~200nA. To detect a smaller signal, the 
distinguishable current has to be as low as 
several pico amperes. 
 
Fig.6 Output voltage when input current is 200nA  
(a)before blow 
 
Fig.6 Output voltage when input current is 200nA  
(b) after blow  
Conclusion 
We have demonstrated a combination 
between the standard CMOS chips and Carbon 
Nanotubes. The experiment result have shown 
capability of CNTs to be used for sensing the 
organic gas such as a human breath, but to 
more accuracy, a higher gain TIA will be 
required to fit expend the range of the 
application. 
Accomplishment 
 
The experimental result has been declared 
in International Conference on Electronic 
Materials and Packaging, Dec. 2006 in Hong 
Kong, which has drawn lots of attention and 
interests of the participants in this meeting. 
 
 
出國報告心得 
陳筱青 
電子所博士班學生 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次參與之會議為 2007年 IEEE IMS/RFIC會議，舉辦地點為美國夏威夷
州的檀香山，會議舉辦時間自六月三號至五號，為期三天。我所獲邀參加的是
一個 workshop，所討論的議題為“Nanoscale RFIC Design Challenges and 
Foundry Solutions”。主持本 workshop的有來自上海的楊立吾先生，來自美國
的王克中博士與林靜山教授。因為我是代替呂老師以 invited speaker的身分與
會，所以心裡感到相當榮幸卻也是萬分地緊張。從出國前就一直反覆練習，希
望能夠將講演的內容白清楚地傳遞給聽眾們。夏威夷是一個氣候溫和又涼爽的
好地方，在開會的這幾天都是晴朗的好天氣，我能夠體會它為何能成為一個優
良的觀光勝地。 
 以下簡單報告 workshop的主旨與講演主題: 
 
As semiconductor industry continues its decades of exponential growth in IC 
integration level, foundries play an increasingly important role in driving the 
industry. Conventionally RFCMOS technologies developed at leading foundries are 
mostly based on the processes for digital applications. While logic transistors are 
still being scaled down with “ Moore’s Law ”, the traditional RF design techniques 
are limited by the transistor leakage current, device mismatches, passive 
components, noise and substrate modeling. RFIC technologies enable single-chip 
SoC integration of RF/analog/digital functions. Several foundries are developing 
needed technologies and design methodologies for nanoscale CMOS RFICs. We 
are inviting experts from major foundries to present their solutions for meeting the 
challenges of manufacturing RFICs, including design support, for deep submicron 
and nanoscale CMOS. In addition, we are inviting experts from fabless design 
houses, EDA vendors, RF packaging houses and academia to share their experience 
in RFIC development. These speakers will address the topics listed below, followed 
by a panel discussion.  
 
1) Nanoscale RFCMOS foundry technologies,  
2) RFIC design challenges in deep submicron and nanoscale CMOS,  
3) RF device modeling challenges in deep submicron and nanoscale CMOS, 
