functions. According to the methodology of 
investigation and observation, this paper categorized 
parameters that dominate the solid transportation 
performance of main drains. An empirical experiment 
was executed to clarify the quantitative influence of 
these parameters. A calculation model for estimating 
the boundary condition of main drain design is 
conducted. Furthermore, an estimation interface is 
validated and proposed as an assessment tool for 
practical application. 
英文關鍵詞： building drainage system, building main drain, flow 
velocity, deliver performance, plumbing engineering 
 
1. Introduction 
Due to the consciousness of water shortage crisis, it is well known that water 
reservation is a crucial item on current global sustainable activity. Thus, water saving 
fittings and equipments are popularly adopted in existing buildings currently in many 
countries. According to the policy of green building and improving system recently in 
Taiwan, many types of water saving facilities are conducted in these periods for 
responding the water problem. The fact that low flash water closet can save lot of water 
is firmly understood nowadays. 
However, it is also known that the performance of solid transportation is one of the 
crucial issues in building drainage system. Water saving equipment directly reduces the 
volume of flowing water in the piping system which could affect the solid transportation 
distance. If this conflict was not considered in the building drainage system design, it 
would increase the risk of solid transportation problems in drainage system. Especially, 
the cases which were refitted by saving water closet in existing buildings with no 
checking the piping system conditions are mostly risky and complained in Taiwan 
recently.  
It is necessary to clarify the relation of solid transportation distance and conditions of 
drainage system including flash water volume and piping system. In the first stage of 
research results, we have already finished the investigation present piping situation in 
existing buildings and to category the parameters of solid transportation performance 
including piping size and length, elbow type, flash water volume and etc. And use 
experimented to clarify the solid transportation influence from these parameters. In the 
second stage, this research conducted estimation interface to validate the solid 
transportation performance which can offer an assessment tools for practical application. 
Finally, all research results will be contribution and guideline for the legalization 
procedure. 
2. Technical Reviews  
Some previous researches and testing devices regarding the transportation performance 
of main drain in buildings were reported in our last paper for CIB W62 annual 
symposium since 2008. According to previous documents and technical reviews, it is 
obvious that the transportation performance of main drain would be constrained by the 
volume of flash from water closet. Due to the complexity of main drain fitting, there is 
not yet limitation for the length of main drain in Taiwan’s Building Code so far. Even 
the NPC of USA and HASS of Japan have no regulation in this issue. Current building 
designs are getting huge and increasing the resistance of transportation and the risk of 
failure in main drain. The building code needs adequate tool to regulate the design of 
Table 1. The relative inference index of transportation distance 
 Parameter Fitting items Inference 
transportation 
distance (m) 
Notes 
1 
Flash volume of 
water closet 
6.0 l ±0.0  
9.0 l ＋3.6 
2 Vertical elbow 
Double 450  ±0.0 
Big curve  ＋1.2 
Single 900  -2.1 
3 Slope 
1/50 ＋3.6 
1/100 ±0.0 
1/200 -2.0 
4 Diameter   
ψ 100 mm ±0.0 
ψ 125 mm -1.6 
5 
Numbers of water 
closets 
≧ 4 ＋2.5 
≦ 4 ±0.0 
6 Horizontal bend 
Single 450 -1.0 
Double 450 -1.6 
Single 900 -2.5 
7 
Distance from 
vertical elbow 
≦ 8 m -1.6 
9~18 m -2.3 
≧ 19 m -3.3 
8 
Discharge floor 
height 
≦ 6 floors (18 m) ±0.0 
＞ 6 floors (18 m) ＋2.0 
 
Diagram of parameters 
This research initially focuses on the total length of main drain of existing buildings. 
The updated result is shown as Figure 2 which reveals the distribution of main drain 
total length with average 17.2 meter and standard deviation 10.5 meter. The cases data 
shows almost a normal distribution and the length is between minimum of 1.1 meter and 
maximum of 61.5 meter.  
 
 
 
Figure 2. The distribution of total main drain pipe length 
According to the empirical study above, 8 parameters are concluded to be the factors 
which affect the transportation performance of main drain in buildings. A simplified 
model was built to estimate an approximate solid transportation distance by statistic 
methodology. Accordingly, 2 additional parameters including second elbow condition 
within the drainage system are added into the estimation model. A single regression 
analysis was adopted to conduct the calculation equation as the following.  
 
100
eC
n
l
D
n
t





 
    …………………(1) 
Herein     Dt : the estimated transportation distance (m) 
ln： the affected length of individual parameter (cm) 
C： the empirical constant distance 769.7 (cm) 
e  : the weighting factor 
 
Case number 
M
a
in
 d
ra
in
 le
n
g
th
 (m
) 
Average value 17.2(m) 
 Figure 4. A calculation case in model 
It is known that the performance of solid transportation is one of the crucial issues in 
building drainage system. Water saving equipment directly reduces the volume of 
flowing water in the piping system which could affect the solid transportation distance. 
The use of saving water facility would increase the risk of solid transportation problems 
in drainage system. Due to the consciousness of sustainability, more and more existing 
residential buildings are refitted by saving water closet to reduce the water demand of 
daily utility. However, it often happened that the process with no checking the piping 
system conditions and that would be risky for drainage problem. It is necessary to 
clarify the relation of solid transportation distance and conditions of drainage system 
including flash water volume and piping system. According to the investigation results, 
this paper found some existing residential buildings with problems of main drain block. 
The conditions of the problem cases and the transportation validations are arranged as 
shown in Table 2.   
empirical estimation model which can contribute the main drain confirmation are 
conducted and validated in this research.  
Acknowledgements 
The authors would like to thank the Architecture & Building Research Institute of the 
Ministry of the Interior of Taiwan (ABRI) and the National Science Council of the 
Republic of China (NSC100- 2221-E-011-119  
 
Reference 
1. National Standard Plumbing Code/National Association of Plumbing-Heating- Cooling 
Contractors/1987.2 
2. R.S. Wyly and H.N. Eaton, Capacities of Stacks in Sanitary Drainage System for Building, 
N.B.S.  Monograph 31, 1961. 
3. R.S.Wyly and H.N.Eaton, Capacities of Plumbing Stack in Building, BMS Repoet,132, 
1952. 
4. Lu Wen-Heng, Cheng Cheng-li, Chou Yen-Chun, Investigation and Development Analysis 
of Building Drainage System for Apartment House, CIB-W62 International Symposium, 
lasi, Romania, 2002. 
5. L.B. Jack, J.A Swaffield, Developments in the simulation of the air pressure transient 
regime within single stack building drainage system, CIB-W62 International Symposium, 
Edinburgh, UK, 1999. 
6. Swaffield, J.A., Jack, L.B., Campbell D.P., Control and suppression of air pressure 
transients in building fjrainage and vent systems, Building and Environment, 39(2004) 
783-794. 
7. Swaffield, J.A. and Campbell, D.P., Numerical modelling of air pressure transient 
propagation in building drainage system, including the influence of mechanical boundary 
condition. Building Envir. 27, (1992) 
8. Campbell, D.P., Macleod, K.D., Detergents in drainage systems for buildings, Wat. Res. 
Vol.35, No. 4, pp. 1086-1092, 2001. 
9. Cheng, C.L., Yen, C.J., Ho, K.C., Ho, J.R., Study on transportation performance of main 
drain with low flash water closet in buildings, CIB-W62 International Symposium, Taipei, 
Taiwan, 2006. 
10. C.L. Cheng, Ho, K.C., W.J. Liao, C.H. Hsieh, Research of main drain system and solid 
transportation performance in existing buildings, CIB-W62 International Symposium, 
Taipei, Taiwan, 2010. 
11.  K.W. Mui, L.T. Wong, C.J. Yen, K.C. He, Characteristics of air pressure 
fluctuations in high-rise drainage stacks, Building and Environment, UK. Vol 45 Iss 3, pp 
684-690, 2010. (SCI) (NSC97- 2221-E-011-112)  
12. C.L. Cheng, W.J. Liao, K.C. He, J.L. Lin, Empirical study on drainage stack terminal 
water velocity, Building Services Engineering Research and Technology, UK, 32.2 (2011) 
pp. 171–181 (SCI) (NSC98- 2221-E-011-122) 
 
 
2006 年，爭取到了承辦當年度年會的主辦權，順利成功地在台北舉行了第三十二屆之國際學
術研討會以及年度會員國會議。 
本次大會於九月二十五日下午各國代表開始報到，並於當天下午五點舉行年度會員國代
表大會，傳達CIB總會的重要訊息與一般議程會員國事務討論，同時也慎重討論了明年度 2012
年大會，主辦國英國(Scotland)的籌辦情況與會議地點。學術研討會於二十六日上午正式開
幕，展開為期二天之學術研討會及一天之技術參訪活動。本次會期共接受口頭發表論文四十
九篇，與會人數約百人，有許多國家代表與會，並踴躍發表與參與討論。筆者今年仍然受邀
擔任第二天第一個議程的分科會主持人(Chairman)，主持有關建築給排水規範及水質健康相關
議題之技術論文發表。本次的研討會主要分六個議程進行論文發表與討論，議程首先就在主
辦單位官方代表的開幕演講後展開。第一個議題是有關建築雨水與再生水利用系統議題 
(ASession: Use of rainwater and reuse of waste water)之相關研究論文發表，共有 8 篇論文，提
出相關研究論文之專家學者，主要為葡萄牙地主與巴西之專家學者。今年因為口頭發表論文
較往年增加許多，所以接下來的議程是採分兩個場地的平行議程。第二個議題是有關建築給
水系統之議題(B Session: Water supply, miscellaneous) ，共有 10 篇論文。第三個議題仍是有關
建築排水設備之相關議題(CSession : Drainage, miscellaneous)，共有 11 篇論文發表。今年這
個議程也特別為了紀念與表彰剛去世不久的英國學者 Professor J Swaffield，多年來對於這個
研討會及專業領域投入貢獻，經會員大會一致決議，將本議程同時命名為 JOHN SWAFFIELD 
SESSION。有關排水系統之議題(Drainage, modeling water and air flow)，在本研討會中一向都
受到高度的關注，也是多年來會期中討論最多最踴躍之議程，筆者研究團隊也在此議題上有
一篇論文發表，由於發表論文議題受到各國專家代表的關注與興趣，討論相當踴躍熱烈，讓
台灣在本議題上之研究成果獲得不少肯定與重視。第一天的議程就在各國與會代表熱烈發
言，以及會議綜合討論中結束。 
第二天之議程，上午首先是第四個議題，是有關規範標準與有關健康之水質相關議題(D 
Session : Standards and Codes, Health aspects and water quality)，筆者受邀主持了上午的第一場
次發表，共有 4 篇論文發表，討論也相當熱烈，特別是有關給排水管路中，可能誘發的傳染
病議題，包括 SARS 及退伍軍人症等，更是受到與會代表的關心與注意。第五個議題是有關
永續構造與氣候變遷之議題(E Session: Sustainable construction and climate change)，共有 5 篇
論文發表，歐洲各國代表與日本學者都紛紛表達看法，有關永續發展之相關議題，最近幾年
一直都是受到各國高度關注，會中討論也相當踴躍。第六個議題是有關水資源與能源、溫室
氣體排放之相關議題(F Session: Water effiency, energy and GHG Emissions)，是本次研討會最後
的議程，共有 10篇論文發表，基本上也延續了永續與氣候變遷之議題討論。兩天議程在各國
三、 考察參觀活動 
第四天的行程，主辦國安排參訪葡萄牙最大的衛浴設備製造企業（Sanitana Co.），詳細
參觀葡萄牙衛浴設備的設計與製造過程，同時也瞭解歐洲衛浴設備的研究發展與市場情況。
此外，主辦單位也為我們準備了 Aveiro City 的城市發展與建設導覽，介紹了一個漁村鹽港小
鎮，如何改變成為一個像義大利威尼斯的觀光水都。該市政府公務員及技術官員，對於整個
市鎮永續發展願景的堅持與努力，的確令人印象深刻由衷敬佩。參訪過程讓各國與會學者專
家，深刻地見識到葡萄牙豐富的歷史遺產與文化成就，確實收穫良多。 
 
四、 建議 
希望我們的政府機關今後能夠給予更多的鼓勵與支持，讓更多的國內有心之學者專家，
走出國外參加各專業重要國際會議，除了吸收新知與重要國際訊息，更重要的是讓國際社會
知道我們台灣中華民國的存在，並肯定我們的努力與成就。記得筆者第一次參與此會議時，
有許多與會之各國代表學者並不知道台灣在那裡，甚至不知道有台灣的存在。如今，大部分
的與會學者已經瞭解台灣的情況，同時大多也逐漸關心台灣的處境，更重要的是逐漸接受並
肯定我們的努力與成果，這是值得欣慰的，也是我們的國家必頇努力走向國際舞台的重要意
義。最後也要感謝國科會此次參與研討會之經費輔助，使筆者得以不虛此行，收穫豐碩。 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. Proceeding of 37th International Symposium of CIB-W62, Water Supply and 
Drainage for Building 
2. Minutes of the 36th Plenary Meeting of CIB W062-Members and their Invitees 
3. USB HD, Presentation and Full Paper in conference 2011CIBW62 
4. Invitation and announcement for 2012CIBW62 , Water Supply and Drainage for 
Building, Edinburg, Scotland, UK 
5. Some catalogs of products of buildings water supply and drainage  
 
六、 其他（本人發表論文） 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Due to the consciousness of water shortage crisis, it is well known that water reservation is a 
crucial item on current global sustainable activity. Thus, water saving fittings and equipments are 
popularly adopted in existing buildings currently in many countries. According to the policy of 
green building and improving system recently in Taiwan, many types of water saving facilities are 
conducted in these periods for responding the water problem. The fact that low flash water closet 
can save lot of water is firmly understood nowadays. However, it is also known that the 
performance of solid transportation is one of the crucial issues in building drainage system. Water 
saving equipment directly reduces the volume of flowing water in the piping system which could 
affect the solid transportation distance. If this conflict was not considered in the building drainage 
system design, it would increase the risk of solid transportation problems in drainage system. 
Especially, the cases which were refitted by saving water closet in existing buildings with no 
checking the piping system conditions are mostly risky and complained in Taiwan recently. It is 
necessary to clarify the relation of solid transportation distance and conditions of drainage system 
including flash water volume and piping system. In the first stage of research results, we have 
already finished the investigation present piping situation in existing buildings and to category the 
parameters of solid transportation performance including piping size and length, elbow type, flash 
water volume and etc.. And we used experiments to clarify the solid transportation influence from 
these parameters. In the second stage, this research conducted estimation interface to validate the 
solid transportation performance which can offer an assessment tools for practical application. 
Finally, all research results will be contribution and guideline for the legalization procedure. 
 
  
 
2. Technical Reviews  
 
Some previous researches and testing devices regarding the transportation performance of 
main drain in buildings were reported in our last paper for CIB W62 annual symposium since 2008. 
According to previous documents and technical reviews, it is obvious that the transportation 
performance of main drain would be constrained by the volume of flash from water closet. Due to 
the complexity of main drain fitting, there is not yet limitation for the length of main drain in 
Taiwan’s Building Code so far. Even the NPC of USA and HASS of Japan have no regulation in 
this issue. Current building designs are getting huge and increasing the resistance of transportation 
and the risk of failure in main drain. The building code needs adequate tool to regulate the design of 
Table 1. The relative inference index of transportation distance 
 Parameter Fitting items Inference 
transportation 
distance (m) 
Notes 
1 
Flash volume of 
water closet 
6.0 l ±0.0  
9.0 l ＋3.6 
2 Vertical elbow 
Double 450  ±0.0 
Big curve  ＋1.2 
Single 900  -2.1 
3 Slope 
1/50 ＋3.6 
1/100 ±0.0 
1/200 -2.0 
4 Diameter   
ψ 100 mm ±0.0 
ψ 125 mm -1.6 
5 
Numbers of water 
closets 
≧ 4 ＋2.5 
≦ 4 ±0.0 
6 Horizontal bend 
Single 450 -1.0 
Double 450 -1.6 
Single 900 -2.5 
7 
Distance from 
vertical elbow 
≦ 8 m -1.6 
9~18 m -2.3 
≧ 19 m -3.3 
8 
Discharge floor 
height 
≦ 6 floors (18 m) ±0.0 
＞ 6 floors (18 m) ＋2.0 
3. Investigation and regression study  
 
This research continues to clarify the relationship of transportation performance and drainage 
system of buildings. The situations of existing drainage system in buildings are the main issue and 
the investigation items would include the primary data and details of drainage system. As the 
results, totally 89 cases of existing buildings are added to be the objects of this research. The 
updated data are mostly corresponded to initial information of last stage investigation. Residential 
buildings are the majority of the investigation cases, the office buildings and some other types of 
constructions are included either. The slope of main drain with 1/100 is 60%, others include slope 
with 1/150 and 1/200. The size of main drain pipe is mainly ψ125 mm and ψ100 mm. The 
location of main drain of residential buildings is mostly in basement floor, some commercial and 
multi-utility buildings are set in ground or second floor to response the limitation of function plan.  
This research initially focuses on the total length of main drain of existing buildings. The 
updated result is shown as Figure 2 which reveals the distribution of main drain total length with 
average 17.2 meter and standard deviation 10.5 meter. The cases data shows almost a normal 
distribution and the length is between minimum of 1.1 meter and maximum of 61.5 meter.  
 
 
 
Figure 2. The distribution of total main drain pipe length 
 
According to the empirical study above, 8 parameters are concluded to be the factors which 
affect the transportation performance of main drain in buildings. A simplified model was built to 
Case number 
M
a
in
 d
ra
in
 le
n
g
th
 (m
) 
Average value 17.2(m) 
interface of calculation software which can easily access by computer. The interface of calculation 
model is shown as figure 3 and a calculation case is shown in figure 4.    
 
Figure 3. The interface of calculation model 
 
Figure 4. A calculation case in model 
observation through real main drain function, this proposed estimation model and interface are 
practicable to confirm the drainage system design. Consequently, a regulation which can guide the 
designer and engineer to confirm the performance of drainage system and an empirical estimation 
model which can contribute the main drain confirmation are conducted and validated in this 
research.  
 
5. Conclusion 
This paper is one of the results from a long term research regarding transportation 
performance of main drain in residential buildings since 2006. The transportation distance of main 
drain is a complex issue which includes uncertain interaction phenomena of water and solid, 
however, the theoretical solution is still unavailable. As the results of this research, the current paper 
finished the investigation of present piping situation in existing buildings and the parameters 
category of solid transportation performance. Empirical approach was executed to clarify the solid 
transportation influence from these parameters. Eventually, this research conducted estimation 
interface to validate the solid transportation performance. This achievement can be used as an 
assessment tool for practical application. Therefore, a regulation which can guide the designer and 
engineer to confirm the performance of drainage system and an empirical estimation model which 
can contribute the main drain confirmation are conducted and validated in this research.  
     
Acknowledgements 
The authors would like to thank the Architecture & Building Research Institute of the Ministry of 
the Interior of Taiwan (ABRI) and the National Science Council of the Republic of China (NSC100- 
2221-E-011-119)for financially supporting this research.  
 
Reference 
1. National Standard Plumbing Code/National Association of Plumbing-Heating- Cooling 
Contractors/1987.2 
2. R.S. Wyly and H.N. Eaton, Capacities of Stacks in Sanitary Drainage System for Building, N.B.S.  
Monograph 31, 1961. 
Wan-Ju Liao is the Ph.D student at National Taiwan 
University of Science and Technology, Department of 
Architecture.  
 
 
Chin-Huang. Hsieh is the Master student at National 
Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 
Department of Architecture. 
 
 
 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭政利 計畫編號：100-2221-E-011-119- 
計畫名稱：建築排水系統污物排流之實證與數值模擬解析研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
