 2 
摘要 
 脆性陶瓷可以陶瓷片狀韌化材予以改善, 本研究評估以內含弱界面的片狀韌化材韌化陶瓷的可行
性, 這個內含弱界面的韌化材可用在任何脆性材料(含陶瓷或高分子材料)中, 內含弱界面的韌化材
可吸引裂縫並予以吸收而達到韌化的目的.  
	 
這個創新的概念已經已專利予以保護(中華民國發明第	 I	 310348	 號專利). 
 
關鍵詞: 陶瓷基複合材料; 機械性質; 韌性; 片狀韌化材	 
 
Abstract 
 The applications of ceramics are limited by their brittleness. Though the toughness improvement can be 
done by adding hard and strong toughening agents as reinforcements, the enhancement is usually marginal. 
Bio-inspired concept derived from fish scale is thus adapted in the present study to design alternative 
toughening agent. The microstructure of fish scale exhibits hierarchical complexity. As fish scales are used 
directly as the toughening agent, the toughness of ceramics is enhanced. Furthermore, a new toughening 
mechanism involving crack deflection within fish scale is observed. Base on such observation, the toughening 
agents with internal weak interfaces are chosen as the toughening agent. Two toughening agents, Ti3SiC2 
particles and multilayered components (MLC), are available in mass quantity. The addition of these 
reinforcements into brittle ceramics indeed improves their toughness and damage resistance; the toughening 
mechanism also involves the crack deflection within the reinforcement.  
 
Keywords: Ceramic-matrix composite; mechanical properties; toughness, platelet 
 
 The brittleness of ceramics limits their applications. In order to solve the problems, the hard ceramic 
reinforcements with high strength are frequently used as the toughening agents to improve the toughness of 
brittle ceramics (1-3). Tough the strength of these reinforcements, such as ceramic fibers or ceramic platelets, 
is very high; the interfacial strength between these reinforcements and brittle matrix has to be low. The 
presence of weak interface allows the debonding at the interface to take place before the reach of the crack tip 
(4). The toughening effects, such as crack deflection (5) and crack bridging (1), can then be activated. The 
presence of weak interfaces also changes the direction of crack path. The change of crack direction lowers the 
stress concentration along the original crack direction (5). The crack propagation is thus slowed down or even 
stopped. Apart from a few exceptions, the toughness enhancement due to the addition of ceramic 
reinforcement is marginal (2,3). The presence of weak interface may bring in penalty on the overall strength 
of the ceramic. Furthermore, the cost of these reinforcements is usually very high. Novel concept on the 
design of alternative reinforcement is needed.  
 Most natural materials are composites, composing of both inorganic ceramics and organic protein (6,7). 
Though these bio-ceramics are manufactured at a temperature close to the room temperature, which is much 
lower than the firing temperature for technical ceramics, the strength and toughness of these natural 
composites are usually high (6-8). Many biological systems have been carefully analyzed in the last three 
decades, their superb mechanical properties have been related to their hierarchical structure (8,9). Many 
attempts have also been made to produce such hierarchical structure, only few attempts have been successful. 
Among these successful attempts, a freeze casting technique is capable to produce a laminated structure with 
 4 
doubt over whether the hierarchical structure is beneficial to the engineering materials or not. The rationale 
solution is to solve the first challenge then the second one (the “top-down” approach (12)). Namely, to 
produce a bio-inspired structure through novel processing first, then to determine the performance of such 
structure. Nevertheless, an approach adopted in the present study starts with the evaluation of the benefit of 
using natural-produced structure as engineering material, then to find engineering solution to re-produce it 
(the “bottom-up” approach).  
 Contrast to other biomimetic systems, such as nacre and wood, fish scale is flexible and relatively thin in 
thickness. In order to prove the feasibility of using such unique microstructure to improve the toughness of 
ceramics, the fish scale itself is used directly as the toughening agent. Several fish scales are arranged as the 
way they are on a fish body between 2 glass plates (supplement). Through the pre-firing at 400°C then firing 
at 750°C, the sandwich specimen composing of glass and fish scale relics is obtained, Fig. 3(a). The firing 
temperature is high enough to allow the glass to flow viscously into every valley between ridges on the top 
surface. A strong bonding between fish scale and glass is formed after firing. A 3-point bending technique is 
then carried out to break the sandwich specimen. The crack first penetrates into the glass then through the top 
surface of the fish scale; the crack is subsequently deflected within the fish scale relics. Since the turtle-shell 
like patterns are found on the fracture path, Fig. 3(b), the crack propagates mainly near the bottom layer of the 
fish scale relics, the layer with highest amount of pores.  
As conventional ceramic toughening agent is used as the reinforcement, the crack deflection is taken 
place at the external surface of the reinforcement, the matrix/reinforcement interface (1-3). The toughening 
mechanism involved with the fish-scale-toughened glass is also a crack deflection. However, the crack is 
deflected within the fish scale. Such toughening mechanism has not been reported in previous studies. The 
hardness and strength of conventional reinforcements, such as SiC fiber or Al2O3 platelet, are very high. The 
crack penetrates into the reinforcement then deflects within these reinforcement is virtually not possible, for 
the lack of weak internal interface. Crack deflection can thus take place only at the outer interface, Fig. 3(c). 
Due to the requirement of such external weak interface, the reinforcement is not allowed to form bonding with 
the matrix. It thus imposes limit on the use of the strong reinforcements. As long as there is a chemical 
reaction between the matrix and reinforcement, the addition of the toughening agent is no longer useful to the 
matrix in terms of toughness improvement. For the fish scale toughened glass, a strong bonding is formed at 
the glass/fish scale interface. Crack deflection can nevertheless take place within the toughening agent as long 
as there are weak interfaces or layers within the reinforcement, Fig. 3(d). The key is therefore the location for 
the weak interface. The weak interface can locate within the reinforcement instead of at the 
matrix/reinforcement interface.  
The above model composite demonstrates that the fish scale itself is possible to serve as the 
toughening agent for brittle glass. Since the composition of the inorganic phase in fish scale is hydroxyapatite, 
another model composite, fish-scale toughened hydroxyapatite is prepared (supplement). XRD analysis 
reveals only hydroxyapatite in the sintered composite. The toughness of hydroxyapatite is increased from 1.8 
MPam0.5 to 2.1 MPam0.5 as 3 wt% fish scale is added. The addition of the fish scales improves the toughness 
of brittle hydroxyapatite by around 20%. From the fracture surface, Fig. 4, a zigzag fracture path within fish 
scale is observed. The toughening mechanism involving crack deflection within the toughening agent is also 
found in the hydroxyapatite/fish-scale composite.  
Though the fish scale can be used as toughening agent directly, the size of fish scale is far larger than 
 6 
crack length increases with the increase of load, the strength decreases with increasing crack length is a 
typical characteristic for a brittle ceramic. However, as 4 wt% and 10 wt% MLC platelets are added into the 
glass matrix, though the strength of the composites is lower than that of the glass alone, the strength of the 
composite exhibits little degradation with the increase of indentation load. The resistance of the 
MLC-toughened composite to the increase of crack length is much better than that of glass matrix alone, an 
essential characteristic needed for a tough ceramic.  
 In summary, a novel concept inspired from fish scale is explored, and applied to the choice of ceramic 
reinforcements. Weak interfaces exist within some crystals, such as Ti3SiC2, and within multilayer 
components. These weak interfaces may interact with crack and slow down its propagation. Several 
composites systems are used to demonstrate the feasibility of using the reinforcement with internal weak 
interface to improve the toughness of brittle ceramics. Furthermore, the benefit of using the present approach 
is that these reinforcements are readily available in mass quantity. The present study demonstrates that the 
biomimetic concept is not far from reaching at all. The use of the biomimetic concept derived from fish scale 
can be implemented with an engineering solution.  
 
References and  
1. M. E. Ruehle, A. G. Evans, Progress in Mater. Sci. 33, 85 (1989).  
2. M. G. Jenkins, A. S. Kobayashi, K. W. White, R. C. Bradt, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 70, 393 (1987).  
3. Y. S. Chou, D. J. Green, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 76, 1452 (1993).  
4. J. E. Gordon, The New Science of Strong Materials; 2nd Ed., Penguin Book, New  York (1976). 
5. K.T. Faber, A.G. Evans, Acta Metall., 31, 565 (1983).  
6. I. A. Aksay, M. Trau, S. Manne, I. Honma, N, Yao, L. Zhou, P. Fenter, P. M. Eisenberger, S. M. Gruner, 
Science 273, 892 (1996).  
7. H. D. Espinosa, J. E. Rim, F. Barthelat, M. J. Buehler, Progress in Mater. Sci. 54, 1059 (2009).  
8. E. Munch, M. E. Launey, D. H. Alsem, E. Saiz, A. P. Tomsia, R. O. Ritchie, Tough, Bio-inspired hybrid 
materials, Science 322, 1516 (2008). 
9. L. J. Bonderer, A. R. Studart, L. J. Gauckler, Science 319, 106 (2008).  
10. S. Deville, E. Saiz, R. K. Nalla, A. P. Tomsia, Science 311, 515 (2006).  
11. M. E. Launey, E. Munch, D. H. Alsem, H. B. Barth, E. Saiz, A. P. Tomsia, R. O. Ritchie, Acta Mater. 57, 
2919 (2009).  
12. M. E. Launey, E. Munch, D. H. Alsem, E. Saiz, A. P. Tomsia, R. O. Ritchie, J. R. Soc. Interface, 7, 
741-753 (2010).  
13. P. Greil, J. Euro. Ceram. Soc. 21, 105 (2001).  
14. L. Chen, R. Ballarini, H. Kahn, A. H. Heuer, J. Mater. Res. 22, 124 (2007).  
15. T. Ikoma, H. Kobayashi, J. Tanaka, D. Walsh, S. Mann, J. Stru. Bio. 142, 327 (2003).  
16. M. W. Barsoum, T. Zhen, S. R. Kalidindi, M. Radovic, A. Murugaiah, Nat. Mater. 2, 107 (2003).  
17. H. Kishi, Y. Mizuno, H. Chazono, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 42, 1 (2003).  
 
 
 
 8 
 
(e)  
 
Fig. 2. Morphology and structure of fish scale after burning off organic. (a) After firing at 700°C in air, a 
weight loss of ~65% is observed. Bony ridges remain on the top surface after firing. (b) A closer look at the 
top surface of the fish scale after heat treating at 700°C in air, ceramic grains with a size of only ~100 nm are 
observed. (c) Cross section of the relics after firing at 900°C. The top surface is fully dense after firing at 
900°C for 1 h. Elongated pores are found only under the top layer. The amount of pores increases with the 
increase of the distance from the top surface. The elongated pores are resulted from the burning off collagen 
fibers. (d) The bottom surface of the fish scale after removing the organic at 1300°C. Many elongated pores 
are observed, suggesting that the amount of collagen is very high at the bottom layer. The top surface of fish 
scale is therefore hard to against scratch; the bottom layers are soft and ductile to absorb impact energy. (e) 
XRD pattern of the scale after firing at 1200°C. The phase in the scale is a hydroxyapatite.  
 
   
(a)      (b) 
 
  
(c)     (d) 
 
 10 
 
  
(a)      (b) 
160
180
200
220
240
260
280
300
0 20 40 60 80 100 120
fle
xu
ra
l s
tre
ng
th
 /
 M
Pa
indentation load / N
glass
4%MLC
10%MLC
 
(c) 
 
Fig. 6. Use of multilayered component (MLC) to toughen a glass. (a) Fracture surface of one MLC used in the 
present study. The fracture surface reveals the laminated nature of the component. (b) Polished section of one 
glass-MLC composite. An indentation is introduced near the glass/MLC interface. One of the cracks 
penetrates straight into the MLC, stops at the first metal layer. (c) The crack resistance of the glass-MLC 
composites as a function of indentation load. The strength of glass decreases with the increase of the 
indentation load, a typical characteristic for a brittle glass. The strength of the 4% and 10% MLC-toughened 
glass exhibits no degradation with the increase of indentation load. The composite is thus resistant to the 
increase of crack length.  
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以500
字為限） 
 
 	 	 	 脆性陶瓷可以陶瓷片狀韌化材予以改善, 本研究評估以內含弱界面的片狀韌化材韌化
陶瓷的可行性, 這個內含弱界面的韌化材可用在任何脆性材料(含陶瓷或高分子材料)中, 
內含弱界面的韌化材可吸引裂縫並予以吸收而達到韌化的目的.  
	 
	 	 	 	 這個創新的概念已經已專利予以保護(中華民國發明第	 I	 310348	 號專利). 	 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
技術/產品應用範圍 
結構材料件 
技術移轉可行性及預
期效益 
可技轉給國內被動元件業者 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 
 16 
                                 
第六屆中國先進陶瓷國際研討會 
(6th China International Conference on High-Performance Ceramics, CICC-6, August 16-20, 
Harbin, 2009) 
 
段維新 
國立台灣大學材料科學及工程學系 
 
I. 前言： 
 
中國先進陶瓷國際研討會(China International Ceramic Conference, CICC)為中國硅酸鹽學會及北京清
華大學所主辦之一系列的國際陶瓷會議, 本人曾參加第二屆,第三屆,第四屆及第五屆, 此次參加的為第
六屆. 會議從8月16日開始至8月20日在中國的哈爾濱市舉行。 
 
此次計有25個國家, 計600餘個教授及學生參加，發表約700篇論文，而第五屆計有31個國家, 約700
餘個教授及學生參加，發表約1000篇論文， 而第四屆計有22個國家, 約800餘個教授及學生參加，發表
約900篇論文， 而三屆則只有約400餘個教授及學生參加，本屆人數雖較上屆人數少, 值此金融危機及 
H1N1影響,但仍有如此多人參加, 顯示此系列會議已成為世界上一個非常重要的國際陶瓷會議.  
 
此次人數較上屆少ㄧ百人, 但國外參與人數明顯減少, 大陸內許多學校及研究單位的參加人數也略
為減少, 顯示北京清華大學在舉辦此國際會議上的號召力已達飽和, 這也許與大陸舉辦國際會議大幅
增加而互相排擠有關. 此次大陸除幾個重點大學及研究單位：清華大學、中國科學院瀋揚金屬研究所, 
上海硅酸鹽研究所, 天津大學、哈爾濱工業大學、浙江大學、皆有許多人參加. 一些較小的學校, 如技
術學院等也有許多年輕教授參加.  
 
會議在哈爾濱市新開發區的一個新的四星級旅館舉行, 該旅館在會議軟硬體上, 及在國際會議經驗
上仍待加強. 會議分Plenary Lecture, 口頭報告及海報展示三類, 此次plenary Lectures 在第一天上午發表, 
Plenary Lecture的講者, 皆具相當高的知名度, Plenary Lecture的講者也使出渾身解數, 內容精彩, 口頭報
告則分在四至五個會議室與poster展示同步舉行, 此屆會議的口頭報告約一百篇. 海報展示則高達六百
篇, 每半天一批, 議程緊湊, 此次會議的議題如下:  
 
Symposium A: Mechanical behavior of monolithic and composite ceramics 
Symposium B: Advanced electroceramics 
Symposium C: Coating for structural, environmental and functional applications 
Symposium D: Next generation bioceramics 
 
 值得注意的是上一屆時已取消的 Nanostructured materials and nanotechnology 的Symposium, 而此屆
仍沒有專門討論奈米的Symposium, 奈米材料已進入各領域的應用面上. 除以上四個Symposium, 大會還
 18 
ISO標準是由ISO206小組負責, 而此小組在1992年成立, 目前已發表40個陶瓷相關ISO標準.  
 
III .  感想及建議 
 
北京清華大學的材料學系以一個學系的力量, 每兩年辦一次國際會議顯示他們的企圖心及豐富
的資源. 國內材料科系普遍不願意舉辦國際會議, 除資源有限, 並須自付盈虧, 壓力很大. 建議教育部
或國科會更積極以大量資金鼓勵學校舉辦相關活動. 讓國外學者知道我國研究的實力.  
 
大陸學生的認真及積極性一直令筆者印象深刻, 例如他們對從國外來的演講者的演講所投入的
熱情及積極, 令人擔心國內研究生, 以後將如何面對來自對岸的競爭. 國內研究生也不喜歡聽演講, 這
也將造成我們在舉辦國際會議時, 所必須承擔太少聽眾及冷場的風險.  
 
此次會議除看到所有陶瓷領域的題目, 大陸方面都有人在研究, 但也可看到極具創意的研究, 顯
示大陸科技政策及經費的提升, 對研究水準的提升收到不錯的效果.  
    
IV. 攜回資料 
    
  會議論文摘要集 
 
 20 
PZT材料，鐵離子與氧空缺位會形成偶極，其型態可以被EPR分析出來，此對於學生研究有極其重
要的關係，此應可類同分析鐵氧磁體內鐵離子價數關係及偶極型態。 
4. LTCC即低溫共燒陶瓷，為玻璃基材中加入填充材(通常為氧化鋁)，此次會議中有許多關於玻璃燒
結及性質的分析研究，包含異種玻璃共燒等。此部分可深入研究製備成LTCC時的性質變化。 
5. 關於現今磁性陶瓷之研究發展。雖然此次會議也有磁性材料的論壇，但其參與的論文篇數明顯少
於其他功能性材料，且也少有微結構與磁性性質的交互影響的討論，這一領域具有相當大的發展
空間。另外，與會教授有提到許多參考資料，對於學生瞭解陶瓷磁性這一部分相當有幫助。 
 
建議 
1. 本次大會有舉辦學生的口頭報告競賽，為全程以英語報告及回答各國教授的提問，參與學生均是
大陸最頂尖的研究生，非常具有挑戰性，且可以與大陸各地學界互相切磋，推薦未來台灣學生也
可以多多參與國際會議舉辦的學術競賽，這會是一個相當好的經驗。 
2. 本次學生論文發表以海報展示方式進行，建議以後海報展示時，可以印出A4大小的海報複印紙本，
方便與有興趣的與會人士交流。 
 
攜回資料 
會議論文摘要集一本 
 
 
 
 22 
3. Xue教授在多孔材料方面，給予了一個產業結合的成功例子：在環境保護及資源再生漸具受到
中用的同時，若能在意想不到的地方上取得到珍貴的資源，則更有辦法大大提升環境資源的利
用；其利用Silica多孔材料建立起一面具有過篩能力的奈米及篩網，可以在各個意想不到的地
方，例如水道中，家裡的排水孔等等，將具有高使用價值的奈米原料收集；此Silica多孔材料的
製備是使用polystyrene為附著基地，並形成為TEOS，之後使Silica在其表面長晶成為~40nm之 
nano sketch。此應用端具有開發潛力，相信在環保議題的創新上也可以加入許多新的元素以及
概念。 
 
建議 
1. 在會議的時間安排上面，海報以及演講者的時間完全重疊，對於許多聽   者講者等皆不太方
便，日後若要舉辦類似相關會議，得避免此情形。 
2. 雖言為國際會議，但是與會之國外學者等皆與中國國內學者分開用餐等，似乎是把交流範圍在
限制住了。 
3. 在會議期間有對中國國內學生的oral competition，是一個對學生很好的發揮平台，或許可以借鏡
學習。 
 
攜回資料 
 本次之攜回資料為[PROGRAMME BOOK and ABSTRACTS of The Sixth China International Conference 
on High-Performance Ceramics CICC-6 2009.8]一本 
 
 24 
Interfaces	 in	 High-Technology	 Industries	 
	 Bio-materials	 
	 Chemicals	 and	 pigments	 
	 Electronic	 materials	 
	 Pharmaceuticals	 	 
	 
II.	 心得	 
	 
	 現將此次會議重要報告內容,	 簡述如下:	 	 
日本東北大學的D.V.	 Louzguine-Luzgin博士(俄國人,	 已在東北大學十年,	 能說流利日語),	 為第一個發
表的學者,	 他整理了金屬玻璃的熱力學的進展,	 他並以大量數據作為佐證,	 	 
日本大阪大學的T.	 Kuroda教授,	 發表Zr基金屬玻璃的接合,	 並展現電阻接合的應用潛力.	 	 
在第二天早上,	 Lawrence	 Berkeley	 National	 Lab.	 的Prof.	 A.P.	 Tomsia在日本大阪退休榮譽教授Kiyoshi	 Nogi
教授的榮退紀念會議上發表Nature-inspired	 design	 of	 highly	 toughened	 materials為題的演講,	 Prof.	 A.P.	 Tomsia曾
在Science上發表3-4篇以冷卻製冰的方式製作仿貝殼的層狀結構,此層狀結構具有極高的韌性,他報告他們
花了極長時間才得以克服的困難及目前是以製作人工骨為開發方向,並預計將於五年後可通過美國FDA
的認可進而上市,因為此為一特殊的會議,他分享了許多開發的歷程及心得,是一個極難得的好演講.	 	 
在第二天早上,	 接在Prof.	 Tony	 Tomsia之後的是Max-Planck	 Institute的Prof.	 M.	 Ruhle,	 Ruhle教授是全世界在
High	 resolution	 transimission	 electron	 microscopy	 (HRTEM)方面最知名的教授,他以Internal	 interface	 by	 TEM為題發表
演講,他指出在金屬及陶瓷界面性質,由陶瓷界面是由陽離子或陰離子結束來決定,他並以氧化鋁與銅的
界面為例,	 報告他們的研究成果.	 	 
	 在第三天早上八點,	 東北大學的校長Akihisa	 Inoue教授發表Plenary	 Lecture,	 題目為Development	 of	 
Magnetic	 Metallic	 Glass,	 他匯整了他們在鐵系金屬玻璃方面的研究成果,令人訝異的是他們研究材料的系
統綿綿密密,以絕不疏漏任一可能性的方式,完整評估五元金屬以上的材料系統,並探索所有可能的應用
機會,由他的演講可得知,	 金屬玻璃若能得以應用(以日本及東北大學所投入之資源來看,	 似乎是必然的),
全世界都將只記得東北大學的貢獻.	 	 
	 筆者全程參與,收穫豐盛,其他資訊可見筆者攜回之論文摘要集.	 
	 
III.	 感想及建議	 
	 
金屬玻璃雖非日本人所發明的,	 可是現在只要提到金屬玻璃,	 則無人不知日本東北大學的研究成
果,	 在五年前,	 其他國家學術界的人,	 包括筆者在內,	 皆以為金屬玻璃只是一個學理上的特殊現象,	 離
工業應用應有極大距離,	 但此次參加此系列會議,	 才知在日本產官學的合作下,	 已將學術上的好奇,	 化
為明日工業之星(註:	 東北大學已技轉一家日本公司,	 並於越南生產生產相關產品),	 在此會議中,日本學
術界除了展現他們在金屬玻璃的學術進展,更展現金屬玻璃在各種應用的可能性,	 日本學術界並且從工
業界網羅許多極具經驗的人才,給予教授的榮銜,藉由他們的產業界的經驗,將研究成果迅速產業化,筆者
與一位從工業界(原日本大公司之研發主管)到東北大學任職的教授一起用餐時,他即告訴筆者他們的發
現有可能顛覆電子材料的材料發展.	 	 
	 如果他山之石可以攻錯,則日本學術界在法人化後,所展現的彈性及活力,確實令人訝異,或許有我們
可借鏡之處.	 	 
	 
第三屆界面及接合技術國際會議 
The Third In ternat ional Conference on the Character izat ion and Control of 
In ter faces for High Qual i ty Advanced Mater ia ls, and Joining Technology for New 
Metal l ic Glasses and Inorganic Mater ia ls ( ICCCI-2009) 
Kurashiki(倉敷), Japan, Sept. 6-9, 2009 
 
段維新 
國立台灣大學材料科學及工程學系 
I. 前言： 
 
 日本三個重要大學: Osaka University(大阪大學), Tohoku University (東北大學), 
Tokyo Institute of Technology (東京工業大學) 在五年前以金屬玻璃的接合為題, 向日
本政府爭取到許多研究經費, 一起合作為研究及開發金屬玻璃的基礎學理及應
用而努力, 此計劃的研究經費, 同時要求舉辦國際會議, 故此次由大阪大學主辦, 
舉辦第三屆的ICCCI系列國際會議, 此屆計有200多人參加, 80多人由其他國家前來, 
這80多人不乏國際極知名學者, 如Max-Planck Institute的Prof. M. Ruhle; Lawrence 
Berkeley National Lab. 的Prof. A.P. Tomsia, Korea Advanced Inst. of Science and Technology 
(KAIST)的Prof. Suk-Joong L. Kang, NASA 的Dr. M. Singh 等人, 大陸有清華大學的Pan, 
Wei教授及上海交大的Zhang, Di教授受邀發表邀請演講(Invited Talk), 筆者為國內唯
一受邀發表邀請演講的人, 我國還有一人自行參加, 發表口頭報告.  
筆者此次受邀發表邀請演講(Invited Talk), 大會並提供機票, 筆者於第一天
以”Direct Bond Copper to Alumina and its Characterization”為題, 發表我們在氧化鋁與
銅直接鍵結的研究成果, 報告完後並與許多國際知名學者(Prof. M. Ruhle of 
Max-Planck Institute; Dr. Jay Singh of NASA; Dr. Dileep Singh of Argonne National Lab.; Dr. Kale 
of Leeds University; Prof. K. Okada of Tokyo Institute of Technology 等人)交換心得, 收穫甚
豐. 
此研究計劃今年為最後一年, 今年在加入三個學校後, 日本政府將再資助五
年. 故此系列會議也將繼續舉辦下去.  
   
 此次國際會議的議題如下:  
Joining Technology for New Nanoparticles and Particulate Materials 
 Solid-liquid interfaces 
 Composites interfaces 
 Interface characterization techniques and standards 
Interface Control for Nanoparticles and Particulate Materials 
 Interface control for processing 
 Control and design of interfaces in suspensions 
International Symposium in Honor of Prof. Kiyoshi Nogi 
的),全世界都將只記得東北大學的貢獻.  
 筆者全程參與,收穫豐盛,其他資訊可見筆者攜回之論文摘要集. 
 
III. 感想及建議 
 
金屬玻璃雖非日本人所發明的, 可是現在只要提到金屬玻璃, 則無人不知日
本東北大學的研究成果, 在五年前, 其他國家學術界的人, 包括筆者在內, 皆以
為金屬玻璃只是一個學理上的特殊現象, 離工業應用應有極大距離, 但此次參加
此系列會議, 才知在日本產官學的合作下, 已將學術上的好奇, 化為明日工業之
星(註: 東北大學已技轉一家日本公司, 並於越南生產生產相關產品), 在此會議
中,日本學術界除了展現他們在金屬玻璃的學術進展,更展現金屬玻璃在各種應用
的可能性, 日本學術界並且從工業界網羅許多極具經驗的人才,給予教授的榮銜,
藉由他們的產業界的經驗,將研究成果迅速產業化,筆者與一位從工業界(原日本
大公司之研發主管)到東北大學任職的教授一起用餐時,他即告訴筆者他們的發現
有可能顛覆電子材料的材料發展.  
 如果他山之石可以攻錯,則日本學術界在法人化後,所展現的彈性及活力,確
實令人訝異,或許有我們可借鏡之處.  
 
IV. 攜回資料 
 
會議論文摘要集 
 
 
 
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：段維新 計畫編號：97-2221-E-002-030-MY2 
計畫名稱：由仿生觀念設計創新陶瓷韌化材 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 2 0 100%  
專利 已獲得件數 1 0 100% 件 
1. 已獲得專利 : 
段維新, 游雅任, 
許 秀 菁 , 黃 于
容  ＇陶瓷韌化
材＇, 中華民國
發明第 I 310348 
號 專 利 , 
6/1/2009- (2009)
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 4 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100% 
1. 已發表論文: 
Yuan-Liang Chin, 
Wei-Hsing Tuan, 
Jow-Lay Huang, 
Chang-An 
Wang, ＇
Toughening 
alumina with 
layered Ti3SiC2 
inclusions＇, J. 
of Alloys and 
Compounds, 491, 
477-482 (2010) 
(SCI impact 
factor: 2.135) 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
國外 論文著作 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
 
