可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                  日期：97 年 10 月 25 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：用於 MIMO STBC OFDM-CDMA 系統之不需資料輔助
空-頻接收機 
計畫主持人：林垂彩         
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-239-007      學門領域： EQ 
技術/創作名稱 二級載波頻率偏移估計機制 
發明人/創作人 林垂彩 
中文：在多載波通信系統中，當有載波頻率偏移存在時，傳統接收
器因子載波間干擾及目標訊號消除現象無法正常解析出傳送訊
號，使得系統失能。吾人提出一個二級載波頻率偏移估計機制，其
能大大增強系統對載波頻率偏移之強韌性。 
技術說明 
英文：In the multicarrier communication systems, the intercarrier 
interference and the desired signal cancellation effect caused by carrier 
frequency offset (CFO) will make the conventional receivers fail to 
extract the transmitted information data. As a remedy, a novel receiver 
incorporating with the proposed two-stage CFO scheme is proposed to 
enhance robustness against CFO. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
multicarrier communication system; wireless communication system 
技術特點 
所提能增強系統對子載波間干擾之強韌性，即使環境中有子載波間
干擾存在時，亦能成功地達到通訊的目的。 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
附件二 
 2
Multi-Output (MIMO) signal processing 
techniques recently have drawn considerable 
attentions as they stand out with the promise 
of significant link quality enhancement and 
huge system capacity increase by exploiting 
the spatial resource without sacrificing 
bandwidth. Moreover, since the Orthogonal 
Frequency Division Multiplex (OFDM) 
techniques with the advantages of high data 
transmission and robustness against the 
channel fading and the Code Division 
Multiplex Access (CDMA) technique with 
the advantages of interference suppression 
and substantial improvement in the system 
capacity have become the candidate of the 
high data rate access and the next generation 
cellular mobile communication standards, 
the main purpose of this project is focused 
on applying the advantages of the MIMO 
techniques to the OFDM-CDMA 
space-frequency receiver and studying the 
related works. 
In this project, we will consider 
realizing the MIMO blind channel 
estimation and space-frequency multiuser 
detection techniques in depth with regarding 
the Space-Time Block Code (STBC) 
OFDM-CDMA system as the main 
references. With the STBC structure 
judiciously exploited, a novel non-data aided 
space-frequency receiver, promising 
low-complexity interference suppression 
scheme without the needs of the pilot 
symbols, will be proposed to achieve the 
demands of high data rate and high link 
quality in the next generation 
communication systems. Finally, the system 
performance and link quality of all the 
proposed schemes will be ascertained by 
both theoretical analysis and computer 
simulations. 
Keyword: Multiple-Input Multiple-Output 
(MIMO), Space-Time Block Code (STBC), 
Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplex 
Code Division Multiple Access (OFDM 
CDMA), blind channel estimation, non-data 
aided space-frequency receiver 
 
二、緣由與目的 
未來新一代的行動通訊系統需要提供
『高資料傳輸率』和『高鏈結品質』的無
線存取能力，在有限的頻譜下提供儘可能
高的傳輸速率，這就需要採用高頻譜利用
率調變技術[1]-[2]。在理想情況下，MIMO
技術[3]-[5]可以隨著天線數目的增加而使
得通道容量成線性增大，具有極高的頻譜
利用率，將是未來行動通訊系統中最具競
爭力的技術之一。此外，為了充分利用有
限的頻寬，提供更高的效能，及增強系統
對通訊環境的強韌性。許多多工技術相繼
被提出[6]-[8]。其中分碼多工技術近年來
更廣為許多無線通訊系統所採用。CDMA
主要是藉由展頻碼來區隔多重用戶，使得
多用戶可在同一時間及同一頻段傳送訊
號，大幅提升系統容量。然而也因此在
CDMA 通訊環境中，必須面臨多用戶存取
干擾和多路徑干擾的問題[9]-[10]。OFDM
技術[11]將每一高速傳輸的資料切割細分
為多個低速並列資料串，並將該低速資料
以個別的載波傳輸，能夠將頻率選擇性衰
落在每個子通道上轉變成平坦式衰落。這
不但可消除 ISI 效應，在接收端也不需要
使用複雜的等化器，因此接收機設計的複
雜度可大為降低。由於這些特性，OFDM
特別適合於高速傳輸系統。 
將 CDMA 與 OFDM 兩技術相結合，
可適合多重速率及高速傳輸系統，達到良
好的頻譜使用效率並滿足未來無線通訊高
速率、高品質傳輸的無線通訊服務。由於
OFDM-CDMA 技術能有效地改善 CDMA
系統在高速傳輸時所產生的問題，且同時
擁有 CDMA 在系統容量、抗干擾性、保密
 4
應，接著利用估計之通道響應結合
MMSE 法微調權值向量。(4)將微調
權值向量執行於接收訊號，以有效
地接收目標訊號和濾除干擾，進而
估計出傳送資料。 
3. 效能驗證：在模擬的環境中，假設
兩根傳送天線；環境中有 10 個相同
功率 (-10 dB)之多重用戶干擾訊
號，；所有訊號展頻碼皆為長度 32
的隨機碼(32 個子載波)；多路徑個
數為 4，每個路徑的增益和延遲分
別為獨立、相等分佈之單一變異複
數 高 斯 隨 機 變 數 均 勻 分 佈 於
[0,3 ]cT ，其中 cT 為 chip 週期。為了
系統效能比較，在模擬結果中加入
子空間 MMSE 接收器(其假設通道
複合特徵向量可正確地獲得)[15]及
導引符碼輔助 MMSE 接收器(其通
道複合特徵向量由 Np 個已知之符
碼資料估計而得)。在模擬中包含導
引符碼長度為全部(傳輸資料皆為
已知時)，稱之為最佳化接收器(以
optimal 標示)。 (1)首先，探討當接
收天線數為 1( 1rN = )，處理週期
500sN = 時，輸入SNR和輸出SINR
之關係，其結果如圖三所示。最佳
化接收器和所提盲蔽接收器之輸出
SINR 都會隨著輸入 SNR 呈現線性
遞增，表示所提盲蔽接收器能有效
地解決干擾問題並提供與最佳化接
收器(假設傳輸資料皆為已知)相仿
之結果。反之，部份導引符碼輔助
接收器因為存在目標訊號相消效
應，當輸入 SNR 提高時並無法增加
輸出 SINR。(2)接著，探討當接收
天線數為 1( 1rN = )，輸入 SNR=0 
dB，處理週期( sN )對輸出 SINR 之
關係，其結果如圖四所示。從圖中
可明顯地看出當 300sN = 時所提盲
蔽接收器可以提供與最佳化接收機
相仿之輸出 SINR，證明所提架構有
極佳之收歛性。反之，部分資料輔
助接收機因估計目標訊號複合向量
誤差所造成之影響，即使在數千取
樣數時亦有明顯的效能衰降。(3)在
第三個電腦模擬中，吾人探討當接
收天線數為 1( 1rN = )且處理週期
500sN = 時，輸入 SNR 對誤碼率
(BER)之關係，其結果如圖五所
示。從圖中可明顯地看出，所提接
收機無法提供與最佳化接收機相同
之效能。此乃因所提盲蔽接收機在
路徑訊號遇到深衰降(低 SNR)時，
無法順利無失真地解析出目標訊
號，而產生些許效能衰降。其他接
收機再次因目標訊號消除現象，即
使在高 SNR 時亦無法達到可接受
之誤碼率。(4)最後，探討接收器有
兩根( 2rN = )接收天線時之效能，
重複上述之模擬流程可得相對應之
結果，如圖六-八所示。分別比較圖
四和圖五之結果和圖七和圖八之結
果後，其如預期地可發現所提盲蔽
接收器和最佳化接收器之輸出
SINR 值可提高約 3 dB 左右。反
之，傳統接收機因目標訊號相消效
應(處理週期不夠大)較嚴重，使得
比一根接收天線時效能更差。若比
較圖五和圖八之結果發現當接收機
有兩根接收天線時因權值向量維度
較大，目標訊號相消效應較嚴重，
進而造成系統收斂較慢。 
 
四、計畫成果自評 
 計畫研究期間，除了完成計畫書所列
之各項研究工作外，亦完成相關研究主題
探討，如展頻碼因同步問題產生的失真對
系統之影響及載頻頻率偏移對多載波系統
之影響，並提出具抗展頻碼誤差及載頻頻
 6
Turbo-Equalized and Space-Time Coded 
TDMA, CDMA and OFDM Systems, John 
Wiley, West Sussex, England, 2002. 
[13] Z. Li and M. Latva-aho, “Nonblind and 
semiblind space-time-frequency multiuser 
detection for space-time block-coded 
MC-CDMA,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., 
vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 1311-1318, Nov. 2006. 
[14] N. Al-Dhahir, C. Fragouli, A. Stamoulis, W. 
Younis and R. Calderbank “Space-time 
processing for broadband wireless access,” IEEE 
Commun. Mag., pp. 136-142, Sept. 2002. 
[15] H. Li, X. Lu, and G.B. Giannakis, “Capon 
multiuser receiver for CDMA systems with 
space-time coding,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process. 
Vol. 50, no. 5, pp. 1193-1204, May 2002. 
[16] T.T. Lin, “Performance analysis of non-data 
aided SBIB receivers for CDMA systems,” Signal 
Process., vol. 88, pp. 1340-1354, June 2008. 
[17] T.T. Lin, “Robust MOE detector for 
DS-CDMA systems with signature waveform 
mismatch,” IEICE Trans. Commun., vol. E91-B, 
no. 10, pp. 3375-3378, Oct. 2008. 
[18] T.T. Lin, “Novel detector for carrier frequency 
offset resistance in MC-CDMA systems,” to 
appear in NST 2008. 
[19] T.T. Lin, “Robust MOE detector for 
MC-CDMA downlink systems under carrier 
frequency offset,” revised by Signal Process. 
 
 
 
 
 
Information 
Source 
ST Block 
Encoder 
c
c
 
L-path  
Rayleigh 
Fading  
Channel 
(2 1)s i −
(2 )s i
 
Proposed Non-Data Aided
OFDM-CDMA Receiver 
 
 
Proposed Blind 
Channel Estimation
1 
N 
OFDM  
OFDM 
 
圖一：盲蔽MIMO OFDM-CDMA接收機方
塊圖。 
 
 
  
Adaptive
Correlator
 
STBC 
Decoder P/S 1ˆ( )d i
1( )ir
2 ( )ir
( )N ir
Maximum 
 Ratio Combiner
(MRC) 
Decision-Aided Algorithm 
Eigen-Space 
Processor 
MMSE 
Receiver 
Decision-Aided 
Channel Estimation 
 
圖二：所提盲蔽接收機架構圖。 
 
 
 
-20 -18 -16 -14 -12 -10
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
Input SNR (dB)
O
ut
pu
t S
IN
R
 (
dB
)
 
 
Proposed
Optimal
N
p
=N
s
/50
N
p
=N
s
/10
S-MMSE
 
圖三：輸入SNR和輸出SINR之關係圖。 
1rN = ; 500sN = 。 
 
 
 
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
Number of Samples (N
s
)
O
ut
pu
t S
IN
R
 (
dB
)
 
 
Proposed
Optimal
N
p
=N
s
/50
N
p
=N
s
/10
S-MMSE
 
圖四：處理週期 sN 和輸出SINR之關係
圖。SNR=0 dB; 1rN = 。 
 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                   九十七 年 十 月 二十七 日 
報告人姓名 林垂彩 服務機構及職稱 
 
國立聯合大學電子工程學系 
時間  1. October 20-24, 2007 
2. March 4-6, 2008 
      
會議 
地點 1. Niigata, Japan 
2. Chiba, Japan 
本會核定
補助文號 NSC 96-2221-E-239 -007 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 1. 2007 天線與傳輸國際研討會 
2. 2008 天線技術國際研討會 
 (英文) 1. 2007 International Symposium on Antennas and Propagation 
       2. 2008 International Workshop on Antenna Technology 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 1. 用於空時區塊編碼 CDMA MIMO 系統之不需資料輔助接收機 
       2. 用於多路徑衰落通道 CDMA MIMO 系統之二級決定指引接收機 
 (英文) 1. Non-Data Aided Receiver for Space-Time Block Coded CDMA MIMO 
Systems 
       2. A Two-Stage Decision-Directed Receiver for CDMA MIMO Systems over
Multipath Fading Channel 
Non-Data Aided Receiver for Space-Time Block Coded
CDMA MIMO Systems
# Tsui-Tsai Lin 1, Wang-Chi Lin 2
Electronic Engineering, National United University
No. 1, Lien-Da, Kung-Ching Li, Miaoli, 360, Taiwan,
1 ttlincs@nuu.edu.tw, 2 9222133@nuu.edu.tw
Abstract
A non-data aided Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) receiver with multiple access interfer-
ence (MAI) suppression is proposed for a space-time block coded (STBC) code-division multiple ac-
cess (CDMA) system under a multipath fading channel. A decision-directed minimum mean-squared
error (MMSE) receiver is developed for alleviating performance degradation due to the finite sam-
ple eﬀect. Numerical results demonstrate that the proposed blind receiver achieve nearly the same
performance of the optimal MMSE receiver, in which the transmitted data is fully known beforehand.
1. Introduction
The capacity limitation in direct-sequence code-division multiple-access (DS-CDMA) systems is
chiefly determined by the interference level which arises from imperfect orthogonality among spreading
codes. Signals from other users, referred to as multiple access interference (MAI), with higher transmis-
sion power due to the near-far problem cannot be eﬃciently suppressed because of insuﬃcient processing
gains, leading to a substantial degradation in performance [1]. Especially for the space-time block coded
(STBC) system, which was originally designed to provide transmit diversity [2], the MAI resulting from
the interference between antennas is more severe than that in single-antenna systems.
In this paper, a non-data aided CDMA multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) receiver based on
STBC in multiuser systems over a frequency-selective multipath channel is proposed. A desired signal-
blocked (SB) transformation is constructed for alleviating desired signal cancellation. An interference-
blocked (IB) transformation is then applied to the SB transformed data to successfully suppress the
MAI blindly. The IB transformed data is sent to the maximum ratio combining (MRC) to provide
maximum signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR). Finally, for mitigating the finite sample eﬀect,
the decision-directed channel response obtained by the MRC output is incorporated, and the fine-tuned
weight vector is determined in accordance with the MMSE criterion. Numerical results indicate that the
proposed receiver exhibits robustness against the MAI and significant performance improvement when
compared with the conventional methods.
2. Data Model
Consider herein a K-user STBC CDMA system equipped with two transmit antennas (TXs) and
N receive antennas (RXs), respectively, over an L-resolvable fading channel, in which the Alamouti’s
STBC scheme is adopted to provide transmit diversity. Suppose that signals are modulated by the binary
phase shift keying (BPSK) and each modulated signal is spread with a unique spreading code ck (c¯k)
of length M used in TX1 (TX2) for user k. Assuming the first user is the desired user, the received
data vector over two consecutive symbol intervals is given by r(i)=H1d1(i)+
∑K
k=2 Hkdk(i)+n(i), where
dk(i)=[dk(2i−1), dk(2i)]T , with dk(i) being the ith transmitted symbol assumed to be i.i.d. with zero-
mean and unit variance, and n(i) is the noise vector of the covariance matrix σ2nI, with σ
2
n being the noise
power. Finally, Hk=[HT1,k,H
T
2,k, · · · ,HTN,k]T is the channel state matrix of user k with
Hn,k = σk
[
Ckgn C¯kg¯n
C¯kg¯∗n −Ckg∗n
]
(1)
In order to further improve robustness against the finite data sample eﬀect, we proposed a decision-
directed MMSE receiver. Assuming that the weight vector w˜1 can successfully suppress the MAI under
a moderately high SNR, the receiver output given by w˜H1 r(i)≈w˜H1 h1d(2i−1), where h1 is the first column
in H1, is an estimate of the transmitted data,except for the complex gain w˜H1 h1. The refined vector hˆ1, up
to a complex gain, can be obtained with Ns data samples used: hˆ1= 1Ns
∑Ns
i=1 r(i)[w˜
H
1 r(i)], which can be
applied to the MMSE receiver to extract d1(2i − 1). Note that the transmitted data d1(2i) can be obtained
by using the similar procedure.
At the final stage of the proposed MIMO receiver, the decoding of STBC is performed within two
symbols. Since the STBC property is preserved at the proposed scheme exactly, the decoding performs
in the same way as that in the Alamouti’s decoding [2].
4. Computer Simulations
Computer simulations were conducted to ascertain the eﬃcacy of the proposed MIMO receiver
in a synchronous eleven-user (K=11) CDMA system with two receive antennas (N=2). For all users,
the signals were spread by random codes of length M=32 through a four-path (L=4) Rayleigh fading
channel, in which the path delays were uniformly distributed and the path gains were i.i.d. unit vari-
ance complex Gaussian random variables. The input SNR and near-far-ratio (NFR) were defined as
SNR=10 log10{σ21/σ2n} and NFR=10 log10{σ2k/σ21}, respectively. Note that all MAI power was assumed
to be identical for simplicity. In each simulation, a total of 500 independent trials was executed to obtain
the output SINR values, with each trial using a diﬀerent set of spreading codes and data/noise sequences.
Finally, unless otherwise mentioned, the following standard parameters will be used throughout the sec-
tion: SNR=0 dB, NFR=−10 dB, and Ns=500. For performance comparison, the results obtained with
the MMSE and optimal (same as MMSE except that the transmitted data is fully known beforehand)
receivers are also included.
In the first set of simulations, the output SINR performance is evaluated as a function of input SNR.
The corresponding results shown in Fig. 1 indicate that the proposed SBIB receiver can successfully
achieve the similar performance as the optimal receiver and significantly outperform the MMSE receiver.
The MMSE receiver oﬀers a poor performance due to desired signal cancellation. On the other hand, the
proposed receiver successively approaches the optimal receiver, confirming that the proposed receiver
can coherently combine the multipath signals and eﬀectively suppress the MAI.
In the second set of simulations, robustness against MAI is examined with diﬀerent NFR values. As
shown in Fig. 2, the proposed receiver with the output SINR performance similar to the optimal receiver
possesses an excellent near-far resistance by eﬀectively cancelling the strong MAI. It is noteworthy that
the proposed receiver performs a slight degradation at high NFR. This is because that the weaker MAI
puts less emphasis on the SB transformation in (2) and then leads a transformation error.
In the final set of simulations, the convergence behavior is examined by varying the data sample size
Ns. The results given in Fig. 3 demonstrate that the proposed receiver with the similar performance as
the optimal receiver converges in about Ns=500 data symbols. On the other hand, the MMSE receiver
fails to collect the desired signals due to the finite data sample eﬀect.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, a non-data aided CDMA-MIMO receiver has been proposed. In contract to the conven-
tional receiver, in which the channel state matrix is required, the proposed method can both successful
suppression of the MAI and eﬃcient collection of the desired signals blindly. Simulation results confirm
that the proposed receiver with a performance similar to the fully data-aided MMSE receiver significantly
outperforms the conventional methods and can achieve excellent robustness against MAI.
Acknowledgement
This work was sponsored by the National Science Council, R.O.C, under the Contract NSC 95-
2221-E-239-007.
A Two-Stage Decision-Directed Receiver for CDMA MIMO
Systems over Multipath Fading Channel
Tsui-Tsai Lin
Department of Electronics Engineering, National United University
No. 1 Lien-Da, Kung-Ching Li, Miaoli, Taiwan 360, ttlincs@nuu.edu.tw
Abstract
In this paper, a low-complexity two-stage decision-directed receiver is proposed for a code-
division multiple access (CDMA) multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) system using space-time
block coding (STBC) over a multipath fading channel. In contract to the conventional receivers, the
proposed blind receiver can provide a reliable performance without requirement of the pilot symbols.
1. Introduction
The multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) system using the space-time block coding (STBC)
scheme [2] providing spatial diversity can promise an enormous increase in system capacity and link
quality without sacrificing the radio frequency resource [1]. Recently, Code-division multiple-access
(CDMA) systems employing MIMO and STBC techniques have been proposed and discussed to support
the tremendous growth in various high-rate services. The physical layer impediments in the design and
implementation of the CDMA MIMO receiver are multiple access interference (MAI) and channel dis-
persion impairment. Especially for the STBC system, the MAI resulting from the interference between
antennas is more severe than that in single-antenna systems. The minimum mean squared error (MMSE)
receiver [3] has been extensively discussed and used as a remedy to combat MAI. However, its perfor-
mance is sensitive to both the mismatches between the true and user channel state information (CSI). In
order to successfully estimate the CSI of the desired user, a larger amount of pilot symbols is required
and leads to a significant decrease of the throughput.
In this paper, over a multipath fading channel, we proposed a two-stage decision-directed CDMA
MIMO receiver that can achieve the fully-known pilot symbol assisted (optimal) MMSE performance
in output signal-to-interference-plus-noise ratio (SINR) but get rid of requirement of the pilot symbols.
The design of the proposed scheme involves the following procedure. A desired signal-blocked (SB)
interference-blocked (IB) decoding scheme is first developed to suppress the MAI blindly and the maxi-
mum ratio combining (MRC) technique is used to compute the weight vector associated to each receive
antenna. In the second stage, the weight vectors of receive antennas are then converted into a full-
dimension weight vector acting on the received data via post-combining to oﬀer the maximum signal-
to-noise ratio (SNR). Finally, a decision-directed two-stage MMSE receiver is employed to mitigate the
finite sample eﬀect. Numerical results indicate that the proposed receiver exhibits robustness against the
MAI, and significant performance improvement when compared with the conventional methods.
2. Two-Stage SBIB MIMO CDMA Receiver
Consider herein a K-user STBC CDMA system equipped with two transmit antennas (TXs) and N
receive antennas (RXs) over a fading channel with L-resolvable paths, in which the Alamouti’s STBC
scheme is adopted to provide transmit diversity. Each modulated signal of user k is spread with a unique
spreading code c(1)k (c
(2)
k ) of length M for TX1 (TX2). According to the Alamoutic’s STBC scheme [2],
the P×1 (P=M+L−1) received data vectors corresponding to the nth receive antenna over two consecu-
tive symbol intervals are written by
xn(2i−1)=
K∑
k=1
[
h(1)n,kdk(2i−1)+h(2)n,kdk(2i)
]
+nn(2i−1); xn(2i)=
K∑
k=1
[
−h(1)n,kd∗k(2i)+h(2)n,kd∗k (2i−1)
]
+nn(2i) (1)
whose solution is the dominant mode (eigenvector associated with the largest eigenvalue) of the eigen-
equation T˜nRnT˜nwn=ηT˜nwn, where η denotes the largest eigenvalue. Ideally, the performance degra-
dation in output SINR is mainly caused by the components in the complement of the desired signal
subspace such that the optimal weight vector formed by projecting the weight vector wn onto the desired
signal-plus-noise subspace (complement of the interference-plus-noise subspace) is given by w˜n=T˜nwn.
2. 2 Stage 2: Full -Dimension Recovery and Decision-Directed MMSE Receiver
With a suﬃcient degree of freedom, the resulting combiner of each receive antenna can achieve
maximum output SNR. Unfortunately, working with a single antenna combiner results in a processing
gain loss. A remedy would be developed to transform these antenna outputs incorporating with f into full-
dimension weight vector. With this operation, f is regarded as the weight vector for a virtual antenna array
of length N whose ”elements” are those ”interference cancellation” (IC) combiner outputs. Specifically,
the combiner output data is given by
y˜(i) =
[
w˜H1 y1(i), w˜
H
2 y2(i), · · · , w˜HNyN(i)
]T
=WHy(i) ≈WHH1(:, 1)d(2i − 1) +WHv(i) (7)
where
W =
⎡⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎢⎣
w˜1 0 · · · 0
0 w˜2 · · · 0
...
...
...
0 0 · · · w˜N
⎤⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎥⎦
;
H1 =
[
HT1,1, H
T
2,1, · · · , HTN,1
]T
y(i) =
[
yT1 (i), y
T
2 (i), · · · , yTN(i)
]T
v(i) =
[
vT1 (i), v
T
2 (i), · · · , vTN(i)
]T (8)
The expression in (7) suggests that the optimum combining weight vector f acting on the IC antenna data
y˜(i) can be obtained in accordance with maximum output-to-noise ratio criterion:
max
f
E
{
|fHWHy(i)|2
}
E
{|fHWHv(i)|2} ≡
fHWHRWf
fHWHWf
(9)
whose solution is given by WHRWf=μWHWf, where R = E{y(i)yH(i)} and μ is the eigenvalue. With f
available, the overall full-dimension weight vector acting on y(i) can be expressed by wo=Wf.
In order to further improve robustness against the finite data sample eﬀect, we proposed a two-stage
decision-directed MMSE receiver. For a moderately good condition, the receiver output is approximately
expressed by z1(i)=wHo y(i)≈wHo H1(:, 1)d1(2i−1)+wHo v(i). It is interesting to note that the receiver output
and the transmit information data diﬀer by a complex scalar wHo H1(:, 1). With the assumptions of PSK-
modulated signal and Ns data samples available, an estimate of the desired CSV, up to a complex scalar,
is given by Hˆ1(:, 1)=
∑Ns
i=1
[
wHo y(i)
]∗
y(i)/Ns≈
[
wHo H1(:, 1)
]∗
H1(:, 1). The estimated CSV can be applied
to the two-stage MMSE receiver, in which the weight vector of each receive antenna is first computed,
and post-combining is then used to transform antenna weight vectors into a full-dimension weight vector.
3. Computer Simulations
Computer simulations were conducted to ascertain the eﬃcacy of the proposed receiver in a syn-
chronous ten-user (K=10) CDMA system using two receive antennas (N=2). For all users, the signals
were spread by random codes of length M=32 through a four-path (L=4) Rayleigh fading channel, in
which the path delays were uniformly distributed and the path gains were i.i.d. unit variance complex
Gaussian random variables. Note that all MAI power was assumed to be identical for simplicity. In each
simulation, Ns=500 data samples were employed and a total of 500 independent trials was executed to
obtain the output SINR values, with each trial using a diﬀerent set of spreading codes and data/noise
sequences. For performance comparison, we included the results obtained with the MIMO Capon re-
ceiver [3] and the fully-known pilot symbol assisted MMSE (optimal) receiver.
In the first set of simulations, the output SINR performance was evaluated as a function of the
input SNR. The corresponding results shown in Fig. 2(a) indicated that the proposed two-stage receiver
produced a similar performance as the optimal receiver. This confirmed that the proposed receiver can
