system are not only delivering ads to client sites, but 
also interacting with consumers. Also in this paper, an 
e-novel advisor system is implemented as an example 
of the proposed pull mechanism. 
 
2. System design 
 
This section describes the design of this study. 
Firstly, the pull mechanism in this study will be 
represented. Then the architecture of a multi-agent 
Internet advertising system in this paper will be 
described. 
 
2.1 PULL mechanism for Internet advertising 
 
The pull mechanism for Internet advertising of this 
study defines three participants shown in Fig. 1: 
 Advertiser. This participant plays the role of 
advertising supplier who may be a seller that needs 
to accurately deliver product information and ads to 
potential consumers via Web. The advertiser is able 
to announce product information on a remote ad 
publisher. 
 Ad publisher. This participant is a facilitator to 
mediate the communication between sellers and 
consumers. Ad publisher offers services to register 
the advertiser’s yellow and green pages and the 
consumer’s profile. Through ad publisher, the 
advertiser is able to retrieve the potential consumer 
information and analyze consumer quality 
requirements. 
 Audience. This participant plays the role of a 
potential consumer who intends to purchase 
products and needs the promotion and explains of 
sellers. The audience in the pull mechanism is able 
to announce his product requirements on the ad 
publisher.  
 
 Fig. 1 Process of internet advertisement 
 
Fig. 1 illustrates the Internet advertising process of 
three participants. The process begins as the advertiser 
registers information in the ad publisher. In this step, 
the advertiser is able to announce and publish ads 
information on the ad publisher. Through the ad 
publisher, the Internet consumers (i.e. Audience in Fig. 
1) can look for their required products information and 
potential sellers. In our design, the client site of the 
Internet advertising system provides a set of 
checkboxes represented a consumer’s product 
requirements respectively. Therefore, the checked 
requirements will be announced by the consumer to be 
registered in the ad publisher. Through the mediation 
of the ad publisher, the consumer can look for the 
sellers and allow them to exhibit product ads. The 
sellers or advertisers also can collect consumer 
requirements and display ads under the consumer’s 
permission. 
Moreover, one of major contribution of the pull-
based Internet advertising in this study is to adopt the 
animated conversational software agent which acts like 
the character of a human salesman. During the 
interaction between the audience and the advertiser, the 
animated conversational agent is allowed to be 
executed on the audience site. The conversational agent 
is capable of representing ads written in scripts by the 
advertiser. Therefore, this study integrates a markup 
language of our previous research for the advertiser 
scripting animated conversational agents. By using 
social and communicative ability of the animated agent, 
the advertiser is able to promote his product 
information, attract potential consumers, and enhance 
consumer loyalty. The next subsection will introduce 
the design of animated conversational agent by using 
scripting approach.  
 
2.2 The design of animated conversation agent 
for Internet advertising 
 
In recent years, a growing number of researches on 
how to make agents become more humanistic in order 
to improve human-computer dialogue. In human 
society, people not only communicate with each other 
by using speech, but also use body gestures and facial 
expressions as communication media. Various 
researches have developed animated conversational 
agents for enhancing the human-computer 
communication in various domains such as e-learning, 
entertainment and medical science. 
Nowadays, many studies of animated conversational 
agent have supported scripting or markup languages for 
scripting agent behaviors. Those languages, such as 
VHML [5], CML [6], AML [7], MPML [8], and 
APML [9], emphasize the importance of modalities 
control mechanism of animated agents. They primarily 
focus on how to control an agent’s facial expression, 
bodily gesture, emotion, animation, and speech. 
However, in the aspect of dramatic expression, a 
3. Case study – e-novel advisor system 
 
An e-novel advisor system was developed to 
demonstrate the usability of this paper. Thus, in this 
section, the design issues and implementation issues of 
the e-novel advisor system will be described. 
3.1  System summary 
 
E-novel advisor system is currently deployed on an 
Internet e-novel community to assist in interaction 
between novelists and readers. In the e-novel 
community, system accepts and contains a number of e-
novels authored by various novelists. Readers simply 
use Internet browsers to find and read novels. However, 
readers typically spend a lot of time to browse and 
review a list of novels through categories and ranking. 
This is not an effective approach for a reader to find 
novels. On the contrary, if novelists have a well media 
to directly promote and explain their novels for readers, 
readers may be easy to find appropriate novels. 
Therefore, this Internet novel community needs a 
pull mechanism for novelists and readers. An e-novel 
advisor system which is a subsystem designed from the 
notion of this study for this community.   
3.2  Techniques and tools of the experimental 
system 
 
E-novel advisor system was implemented based on 
JADE (Java Agent Development) framework to 
develop software agents. JADE recently follows the 
standards instituted by FIPA [10]. 
3.3 Implementation of Personal Agent 
In the pull technology of this paper, readers are able 
to utilize their personal agents to announce 
requirements. Fig. 4 represents one of screenshots of a 
personal agent. In this screenshot, there exists a panel 
consists of checkboxes. Each of checkboxes represents 
a reader’s novel interest. By selecting the checkboxes, 
the interests of a reader are recorded in the ad publisher 
site.  
 
Fig. 4 Publish reader’s interests by personal agent 
In order to authenticate Ad agents that migrate from 
advertiser sites, a personal agent can be configured to 
automatically accept or refuse Ad agents. This 
functionality is used to avoid the reader site interfering 
with malicious Ad agents. Except publishing 
requirements, a personal agent also supports the reader 
to search sellers and novels/ads on the Ad publisher 
site. Fig. 5 is a personal agent’s screenshot that 
presents a list of ads queried from the Ad publisher site. 
 
Fig. 5 Searching novels by personal agent 
3.4 Implementation of Ad Agent 
Ad agents are animated conversational agents that 
use facial expressions, body gestures, and speech to 
promote and explain novels for readers. A reader’s 
personal agent provides a workspace for executing Ad 
agents which are developed with Java technology. In 
the implementation of an Ad agent’s animation, this 
study adopts programming technique of Microsoft 
agent. By using Microsoft agent programming, the 
animated character is easier created. Moreover, each 
animated conversational agent’s behavior, including 
emotion and speech, follows the content of interactive 
drama authorized by advertisers. Fig. 6 shows the 
screenshot of the Ad agent which is an animated 
character with two buttons for interacting with the 
reader.  
 
 
Fig. 6 The animated Ad agent 
USA, June 26-29, 2006. 
[5] Simon Beard and Donald Reid, “MetaFace and 
VHML: A First Implementation of the Virtual 
Human Markup Language,” Proceedings of the 
1st International Joint Conference on 
Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 
July 15-19, 2002. 
[6] Y. Arafa and A. Mamdani, “Scripting embodied 
Agents Behaviour with CML: Character Markup 
Language,” Proceedings of the 8
th
 International 
Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces, 2003, 
pp. 313-316. 
[7] S. Kshirsagar, N.M. Thalmann, A. Cuye-
Vuilleme, D. Thalmann, K. Kamyab, and E. 
Mamdani, “Avatar Markup Language,” 
Proceedings of the Workshop on Virtual 
Environments, 2002, pp. 169-177. 
[8] H. Prendinger, S. Descamps, and M. Ishizuka, 
“MPML: A Markup Language for Controlling 
the Behavior of Life-Like Characters,” Journal of 
Visual Languages and Computing, 2004, vol. 15, 
pp. 183-203. 
[9] De Carolis, Carofiglio, Bilvi, and Pelachaud, 
“APML: a Markup Language for Believable 
Behavior Generation,” Proceedings of the 1
st
 
International Joint Conference on Autonomous 
Agents and Multiagent Systems, July 15-19, 2002. 
[10] A. Cerekovic, Hung-Hsuan Huang, G. Zoric, K. 
Tarasenko, V. Levacic, I.S. Pandzic, Y. Nakano, 
and T. Nishida, “Towards an Embodied 
Conversational Agent Talking in Croatian,” 
Proceedings of the 9
th
 International Conference 
on Telecommunications 2007 (ConTel 2007), 
June 13-15, 2007, pp. 41-48. 
[11] Ong-Sing Goh, Kok Wai Wong, and A. 
Depickere, “An Embodied Conversational Agent 
for Intelligent Web Interaction on Pandemic 
Crisis Communication,” Proceedings of Web 
Intelligence and International Agent Technology 
Workshops 2006 (WI-IAT 2006), Dec. 2006, pp. 
397-400. 
[12] FIPA abstract Architecture Specification, URL 
http://www.fipa.org/specs/fipa00001/SC00001L.
pdf 
 
 
 
四、攜回資料名稱與內容 
 
ITSim 2008 論文集一本與 CD一片 
mechanism. In this system, consumers ask for 
products and relevant ads by announcing 
requirements on the system. Advertisers can 
realize and collect consumer profiles and 
deliver animated conversational agents to 
display ads for enhancing consumer loyalty. 
The design of animated conversational agents 
is based on the concepts of IMMAM (Internet 
Mobile Marketing Agent Model) [3, 4]. 
IMMAM proposes a markup language, FSDL 
(FCU Scenario Description Language), which 
controls agents’ emotions and gestures when 
interacting with users. Thus, IMMAM is 
integrated in the Internet advertising system 
of this study. The agents in this system are not 
only delivering ads to client sites, but also 
interacting with consumers. Also in this paper, 
an e-novel advisor system is implemented as 
an example of the proposed pull mechanism. 
 
2. System design 
 
This section describes the design of this 
study. Firstly, the pull mechanism in this 
study will be represented. Then the 
architecture of a multi-agent Internet 
advertising system in this paper will be 
described. 
 
2.1 PULL mechanism for Internet advertising 
 
The pull mechanism for Internet 
advertising of this study defines three 
participants shown in Fig. 1: 
 Advertiser. This participant plays the role 
of advertising supplier who may be a seller 
that needs to accurately deliver product 
information and ads to potential consumers 
via Web. The advertiser is able to 
announce product information on a remote 
ad publisher. 
 Ad publisher. This participant is a 
facilitator to mediate the communication 
between sellers and consumers. Ad 
publisher offers services to register the 
advertiser’s yellow and green pages and 
the consumer’s profile. Through ad 
publisher, the advertiser is able to retrieve 
the potential consumer information and 
analyze consumer quality requirements. 
 Audience. This participant plays the role of 
a potential consumer who intends to 
purchase products and needs the 
promotion and explains of sellers. The 
audience in the pull mechanism is able to 
announce his product requirements on the 
ad publisher.  
 
 Fig. 1 Process of internet advertisement 
 
Fig. 1 illustrates the Internet advertising 
process of three participants. The process 
begins as the advertiser registers information 
in the ad publisher. In this step, the advertiser 
is able to announce and publish ads 
information on the ad publisher. Through the 
ad publisher, the Internet consumers (i.e. 
Audience in Fig. 1) can look for their required 
products information and potential sellers. In 
our design, the client site of the Internet 
advertising system provides a set of 
checkboxes represented a consumer’s product 
requirements respectively. Therefore, the 
checked requirements will be announced by 
the consumer to be registered in the ad 
publisher. Through the mediation of the ad 
publisher, the consumer can look for the 
sellers and allow them to exhibit product ads. 
The sellers or advertisers also can collect 
consumer requirements and display ads under 
the consumer’s permission. 
Moreover, one of major contribution of the 
pull-based Internet advertising in this study is 
triggers conversational agents to act like 
salesmen for introducing and promoting 
products. 
2.3 The design of agent-based Internet 
advertising system 
This study proposes an agent-based 
computational platform, shown in Fig. 3, for 
Internet advertising. The platform is designed 
by following the concept of 3-tier architecture. 
Thus, the platform is consisted of Audience 
site, Advertiser site, and Ad publisher site. 
Except conversational agent, four software 
agents are defined as follows: 
 Personal Agent. A personal agent is 
deployed on the audience site. The 
personal agent supports graphical user 
interfaces for a consumer to register 
profiles and announce product 
requirements to the ad publisher site. The 
consumer can also browse and search 
potential sellers registered in the ad 
publisher site via his personal agent. As a 
consumer finds appropriate sellers, he 
directly allows the seller to deliver the 
conversational agent to display 
advertisements. Therefore, a personal 
agent has to provide a workspace for 
executing conversational agents delivered 
from advertisers. Moreover, a personal 
agent is like a doorkeeper. It is capable of 
inviting or declining a conversational 
agent’s visiting. 
 Advertiser Agent. An advertiser agent is 
located on the advertiser site. It is 
responsible for registering the advertisers’ 
information on the ad publisher site. After 
scripting interactive dramas as ads, the 
advertiser transfers ads to the ad publisher 
site via advertiser agent. It also obtains 
viewer statistics from the ad publisher site 
and presents them to the advertiser. 
Through statistics data, the seller can 
analyze his potential consumer attributes 
and design correct ads. 
 Directory Facilitator (DF). The DF is a 
registry located on the ad publisher site. It 
keeps and maintains the yellow pages of 
consumers and advertisers. Through DF, 
the ad publisher can locate online 
consumers and advertisers. 
 Recommendation Agent. A 
recommendation agent is located on the ad 
publisher site. This agent is like a broker 
for a personal agent to look for potential 
sellers. As the consumer requests the 
system to browse ads, the recommendation 
agent is capable of creating and 
dispatching conversational agents (i.e. Ad 
agent in Fig. 3) to the audience site. 
 
Fig. 3  Agent-based pull mechanism 
for the Internet advertisement system 
3. Case study – e-novel advisor system 
 
An e-novel advisor system was developed 
to demonstrate the usability of this paper. 
Thus, in this section, the design issues and 
implementation issues of the e-novel advisor 
system will be described. 
3.1  System summary 
 
E-novel advisor system is currently 
deployed on an Internet e-novel community 
to assist in interaction between novelists and 
readers. In the e-novel community, system 
accepts and contains a number of e-novels 
authored by various novelists. Readers simply 
use Internet browsers to find and read novels. 
However, readers typically spend a lot of time 
 Fig. 6 The animated Ad agent 
3.5 Implementation of Writer Agent 
 
A writer agent is a software assistant for a 
novelist of this study. After authoring an 
interactive drama, the novelist can ask the Ad 
agent to display the edited drama for 
previewing. As shown in Fig.7, if the preview 
is correct, novelists can publish the ads 
through the writer agent. Moreover, the writer 
agent is designed to log each novel’s situation, 
such as the number of times that this novel’s 
ad has been read, and the number of times 
that the novel has been subscribed. 
 
Fig. 7 The screenshot of writer agent 
 
3.6  Experiment evaluation 
 
The system has already been working for 
two months. The experiment uses the past 
three years’ data to estimate that there are 
48288 novel subscription records. The mean 
is 40.7 subscriptions per day, about 285 
records every week (not including cancelled 
subscriptions). Before adopting the system, 
there were about 300 subscription records 
every week on average. Fig. 8 compares 
novel subscription records one week before 
and after adopting the system. The result 
shows that the new system increases 
subscriptions by a wide margin compared to 
the original system. 
 
Fig. 8 Novel subscription records one week before 
and after adopting the system 
4. Conclusions 
 
In this paper, an agent-based Internet 
advertising system by using pull mechanism 
is proposed to improve the bad tracing 
technology in internet advertising. Consumers 
describe their requirements through personal 
agents. Advertisers also utilize software 
agents to release the ads, look for potential 
consumers, and assess advertising. 
Furthermore, animated conversation agents 
are substituted for advertisers to promote and 
explain product with consumers.  
This paper constructs an e-novel advisor 
system to demonstrate the design of the 
proposed system. The experiment found that 
most novels can increase the amount of 
subscriptions by using the e-novel advisor 
system. The growth rate of subscriptions 
conforms to the system’s assessment. 
However, there are still two issues have to be 
resolved in the future. 
 The advertising system structure, 
including the learning mechanism, and 
feedback mechanism, needs to be 
improved by independence from specific 
