 2
However, piezoelectric material could result in 
hysteresis and not compatible with CMOS 
process. Electrostatic excitation is also widely 
used in micromachined devices. The main 
benefit of the electrostatic excitation is its 
characteristic small power consumption. 
However, a vertical resonator with parallel plate 
electrostatic actuator exhibit a nonlinear 
phenomenon, called pull-in, which seriously 
constrains the stable region at one-third the 
length of the gap [5]. 
For this consideration, a vertical resonator 
with comb structure is proposed. The vertical 
comb drive is used for obtaining a large 
displacement. The design concept, simulation, 
fabrication process, and experimental results are 
given in the following sections. 
 
三、 研究方法及成果 
3.1 Design concept 
Fig. 1 schematically depicts a resonator 
with different driven states [6]. The resonator 
consists of an anchor, a composite beam and a 
set of comb fingers. These comb fingers, design 
along the composite beam, acted as the movable 
and fixed comb fingers. Fig. 1(a) shows one end 
of the composite beam, which is clamped to the 
anchor, and the other end is elevated due to the 
residual stress between the two deposited 
materials. When a voltage, V, is applied between 
the movable and fixed comb, the movable 
composite beam can be pulled downward to the 
substrate by the electrostatic force induced by 
the fringe effect, as shown in Fig. 1(b). The 
taper-like distances between each movable and 
fixed comb are obtained from the free end to the 
fixed end based on the curved-up shape of the 
composite beam. In the actuating mechanisms, 
the movable comb fingers that are closed to the 
anchor provide the main actuation force. As the 
actuation progresses, the retral movable comb 
fingers will be pulled down accordingly. As the 
driving voltage is increased, the vertical 
displacement of the free end of the resonator is 
increased. Compare to the parallel plate 
electrostatic actuator, the vertical comb drive 
exhibits no pull-in and hysteresis phenomenon.  
Notably, the electrostatic force is constrained 
when the movable comb finger is closed to the 
fixed comb finger, independently of the input 
driving voltage, as shown in Fig. 1(c). 
 
3.2 Simulation 
To fully understand the resonant 
characteristics of the resonator, a FEM simulator, 
IntelliSuite, is used to calculate the resonant 
frequencies and the corresponding mode shapes. 
The resonator  consist of a 500×44 μm2 
composite beam that is fixed to an anchor 
structure with 34 movable comb fingers 
orthogonally mounted on the composite beam, 
and 35 fixed comb fingers are mounted on the 
silicon substrate. The dimension of the comb 
finger is 68×3.6 μm2, and the overlap length is 
60μm. Note that in the present FEM simulations, 
we solely require movable comb and composite 
beam to calculate the resonant frequencies. 
Table I shows the mode shape simulation results 
of the proposed resonator. In the 1st mode, there 
is an anti-node in the free end and a node in 
fixed end. Thus, the entire cross section elements 
are actuated in the same direction. In the 2nd yaw 
and roll mode, attention must be paid to avoid 
shorting due to the contact between movables 
and fixed comb. In the 3rd mode, the resonator is 
vibrating in yaw motion. These simulation 
results can be used as the reference data in 
determining the resonant modes during the 
actual experimental measurements. 
 
3.3 Fabrication 
The resonator device was fabricated 
through standard 0.35μm 2P4M (double 
polysilicon quadruple metal) CMOS process and 
post-CMOS process [7]. Fig. 2(a) illustrates the 
cross-section of the chip with the MEMS 
components and the circuits, fabricated by the 
standard 2P4M CMOS process. The 
microstructures of the MEMS components 
consist of polysilicon, metal and dielectrics. The 
contact and via holes are filled with tungsten 
plugs. The four metal layers are made of 
aluminum. The multilevel interconnect process 
involves chemical and mechanical polishing to 
 4
humidity and gas sensing. The ALD (Atomic 
Layer Deposition) system will be utilized to coat 
special material on the surface of resonator as 
reaction layer. For example, Al2O3 film 
possesses a hydrophile characteristic which can 
be used for humidity detection, and ZnO film 
can be used for carbon monoxide detection due 
to its chemical reaction. Therefore, the resonator 
could be used to measure different physical 
parameters depend on different applications. 
Besides the proposed resonator, an infrared 
temperature sensor is also designed in this 
project. Infrared temperature sensors using 
non-contact radiation detect the temperature 
variance. According to Black theory, 
temperature variance occurs in any body which 
in higher than absolute zero degree. Infrared 
temperature sensor fabricated by CMOS MEMS 
process and the sensor called thermopile. It can 
detect the differential temperature between the 
human body skin and room temperature. 
 
五、 參考文獻 
1. O. Brand, H. Baltes, W. Gopel and J. Hesse, 
“Micromachined resonant sensors – an 
overview,” Sensors Update, vol. 4, 
Wiley-VCH, Weinheim,  pp. 4–51, 1998. 
2. J. Fritz, M. K. Baller, H. P. Lang, H. 
Rothuizen, P. Vettiger, E. Meyer, H. J. 
Guntherodt, C. Gerber and J. K. Gimzewski, 
“Translating Biomelecular recognition into 
nanomechanics,” Science, 288, pp. 316–318, 
2000. 
3. S. S. Bedair and G. K. Fedder, “CMOS 
MEMS oscillator for gas chemical detection” 
Sensors, Proceedings of IEEE, Oct. 24 - 27, 
pp. 955–958, 2004. 
4. R. A. Buser, H. H. Bau, N. F. De Rooij and 
B. Kloeck, “Resonator sensors,” Sensors – A 
comprehensive survey, vol. 7, VCH, 
Weinheim, pp. 205–284, 1994. 
5. J. Pons-Nin, A. Rodriguez and L. M. 
Castaner, “Voltage and pull-in time in 
current drive of electrostatic actuators,” J. 
Microelectromech. Syst., vol. 11, pp. 
196–205, 2002. 
6. J. C. Chiou and Y. J. Lin, “A novel large 
displacement electrostatic actuator: pre-stress 
comb-drive actuator,” J. Micromech. 
Microeng., vol. 15, pp. 1641–1648, 2005. 
7. C. L. Dai, F. Y. Xiao, Y. Z. Juang and C. F. 
Chiu, “An approach to fabricating 
microstructures that incorporate circuits 
using a post-CMOS process,” J. Micromech. 
Microeng., vol. 15, pp. 98–103, 2005. 
8. U. Krishnamoorthy, D. Lee and O. Solgaard, 
“Self-aligned vertical electrostatic 
combdrives for micromirror actuation,” J. 
Microelectromech. Syst., vol. 12, pp. 
458–464, 2003. 
9. Z. Jin, Y. Wang, Y. Xu and C. Ding, “The 
properties of micromechanical resonator,” 
Proc. 4th International Conference on 
Solid-State and Integrated Circuit 
Technology, pp. 482–484, 1995. 
 
TABLE I. The mode shape of the resonator. 
Mode Frequency(Hz) Motion Solid Mode shape 
1st 16790.7 Pitch 
2nd 103433 Yaw & Roll 
3rd 105726 Roll 
 
 
Figure 1. The resonator at different driving states. (a) 
Initial state. (b) Bias voltage state. (c) Critical bias voltage 
state. 
 
