中文摘要
本計畫完成的混合實境設計平台，整合實體比例模型(physical scale model)、可觸知擴
增實境界面(tangible augmented reality interface)，提供參與式(participative)、協同式
(collaborative)設計，讓設計者能夠將行動服務設計視覺化 (visualization)、空間化
(spatialization)、以及標籤化(tagging)，能有效地設計上述多種行動服務及隨之而來的應
用，進而提供，全新的空間規劃典型之一。
網路世界的發展，實體世界行為在網路世界中也可以進行，加上行動技術讓人們打破
空間更自由的遊走於虛擬世界，因此，虛擬世界行為與脈絡又回歸於實體空間實踐，
實體世界中不只給人存在的價值，也包含了網路空間無法取代的社交互動，場景的經
驗等；規劃地點空間相關研究時，往往必須於協同工作空間與實體世界之間來回的討
論、修改、體驗等，這段過程是複雜且需花費相當多的時間。
本計畫強調於協同工作空間與實體環境的連結，透過增廣實境來再現虛擬資料並疊合
於實體比例模型上，利用可觸知的界面，直覺性的操作與簡易的修改虛擬資訊；在實
體空間裡藉由行動裝置即時的體驗地點媒體，將收集的資訊傳輸至協同空間實體模型
相對位置中，縮短規劃與設計的時間。
英文摘要
This research project constructs a mixed reality platform, integrating physical scale model
and  tangible  augmented  reality  interface,  and  supporting  participative  and  cooperative
design. This platform enables designers to design mobile service visually, spatially, and
with tagged media. Moreover, this platform is very efficient to design the mobile services
described above and their related applications. Thus, we also contribute a new paradigm of
space design in the future. 
As Internet  technology developing,  we transfer  more  and more physical  activities  into
cyberspace.  On  the  other  hand,  mobile  technology  free  the  location  of  cyberspace
participants, and therefore, the situation and context of a avatar come back to the physical
space which not only plays a role of interface to the computing but also provides physical
social  interaction and contextual  experience.  The emerging of  locative media  in  urban
space focuses on placing media at a location and in advance, it is often designed, planned,
discussed, experienced, and modified forward and backward. Due to the complicated and
time-consuming procedure of locative media planning, this paper proposes a collaborative
workspace to support tangible, participative, and collaborative design by linking physical
location and workspace simultaneously. With augmented reality, the workspace can render
the virtual information on a physical scale model with a global view, and thus the invisible
media  are  intuitive  to  manipulate.  On  the  other  hand,  the  contextual  information  in
physical  environment  and  experience  in  situ  can  be  collected  and  transferred  to  the
corresponding representative location in the scale model for further discussion.
Figure 1-1 Cooperative discussion 1-2 Field work 1-3 Locative media experiencing
2. Related Works 
Most collaborative desktop systems put emphasis on the interaction between users and systems[3]
[4][5][13],  and  these  systems  facilitate  simple  manipulations  such as  inserting,  deleting,  and
modifying digital information on desktop. Some system focused on intuitive interaction through
tangible  objects[6],  and  others  highlighted  the  working  area  of  each  participant  within  the
collaborative process[2]. We summarize the properties of these systems in Table 1. For examples,
such properties include granularity of information, multiple layers of visualization, highlight of
focus, interaction of tangible object, and so on.
Instead of using real-time information for planning, many systems employ prepared database of
simulation during collaborative work. However, certain situation would require real-time data
input. For example, using sensors in an automobile to transfer real-time data to the collaborative
designers is extremely helpful to understand the dynamic property [5].
Collecting physical data in material world [14], for example, taking pictures or videos in urban
space, is very significant in geospatial research. Moreover, to plan locative media efficiently, our
research  emphasizes  the  bidirectional  connection  and  real-time  negotiation  between  physical
space in situ and the collaborative workspace.
1 Granularity of
information
[2],[3]
2 Multiple layers of
visualization
[1],[3],[4]
3 Visual highlight of
focus
[2],[4]
4 Interaction of
tangible objects
[6]
5 Personal and
collaborative space
on the table
[1],[2],[3],[4]
[11]
6 Input of real-time
data
[5], Our system
7 Digital information
of duplication,
edition and
modification..
[3],[4],[5][11]
8 Personal
orientation of
viewing digital
data
[2]
9 Physical data [12]
10 Bidirectional
connection
Our system
environment or physical world is too complicated to observe objectively and comprehensively, a
researcher in a social situation has to make decision about what to collect or not. If a system
supports multiple users to collaborate in field work in real-time, the collected data are supposed
to be more comprehensive. 
Field work is essentially related to location. Therefore, our proposed collaborative workspace for
locative  media  planning  can  easily  support  fieldwork.  Planners  can  assign  missions  to  field
workers at a specific location, and also the collected data can be visualized and overlapped on the
scale  model.  Rate  of  progress  of  every  locative  investigation  can  be  known  and  updated
dynamically. 
4. System architecture 
Our system consists of two spaces: one is  collaborative workspace and the other,  is  physical
space.  The  collaborative  workspace  is  a  scale  model  with  AR  tangible  interface.  We  use
MXRToolkit[13] to recognize and track visual markers and superimpose digital information onto
markers, so that participants can directly manipulate markers to attach or edit digital information
at the corresponding location. Different layers of locative information are overlapped on the scale
model.  Participants  in  situ  hold  PDAs(HP iPAQ h6300)  with  GPS(HOLUX GPSlim 236)  to
collect  data  and  transfer  them to  a  web  server.  Thus,  the  system can  overlap  the  real-time
collected data at the corresponding location on the scale model (Figure 3). 
Figure 3 System architecture
The goal of the collaborative space is to provide designers and planners with face-to-face
discussion, and to provide a bird’s-eye view of an area. This global viewpoint can facilitate the
comprehensive  design  of  digital  information.  Tangible  AR  interface  also  supports  intuitive
manipulation while discussing. 
On the other hand, users in the physical space can collect more authentic data compared to the
data provided by the collaborative desktop. Especially when humans are the subject of study, for
example,  social  interaction  in  situ,  observation  can  be  transferred  to  the  system  via  wifi
connection.  Moreover,  users  can  instantly  experience  the  attached  media  by  planners  in
laboratory within the real environmental context, and report their comments in real-time. 
5. Scenarios 
Figure  4-1.  (top)  Planners  interact  with  AR tangible  interface  to  place  locative  music 4  -2.
(bottom from left) Proximity interaction: to put music on the location 4-3. Participants in situ are
shown as avatars 4-4 , 4-5. Controllable objects are used to perform inserting and deleting music
clips.
7. Conclusion
Locative media planning is such an emerging area in urban planning that neither the experimental
research  nor  the  field  work  can  solve  the  problem solely.  We  try  to  solve  the  problem by
integrating two research paradigms, a collaborative workspace connected with mobile users in
physical space.
Our work provides global and in situ viewpoint on a collaborative platform such that designers
and participants can cooperate in virtual space and physical space.
Instead of preliminary observation, we will test our system with quantitative evaluation. 
8. Reference
[1] M. Haller, P. Brand, D. Leithinger, J. Leitner, T. Seifried, and M. Billinghurst, “Shared Design
Space  Sketching  ideas  using  digital  pens  and  a  large  augmented  tabletop  setup,”  Proc.  16th
International Conf.(ICAT 2006), LNCS4282, Springer, 2006, pp. 948-959.
[2]  U.  Hinrichs,  S.  Carpendal,  and  S.D.  Scot,  “Evaluating  the  Effects  of  Fluid  Interface
Components on Tabletop Collaboration.” Proc. AVI 2006, pp.27–34,
[3] A. Tang, M. Tory, B. Po, and P. Neumann, “Collaborative Coupling over Tabletop Displays,”
Proc.  SIGCHI  conf.  on  Human  factors  in  computing  systems  (CHI  2006),  ACM  Press,  pp.
1181-1190.
[4] D. Wigdor, C. Shen, C. Forlines, and R. Balakrishnan, “Table-Centric Interactive Spaces for
Real-Time Collaboration.” Proc. AVI ‘06, pp. 103-107 2006
[5] R. Shannon,A. Quigley, and P. Nixon, “Collaborating in Context: Immersive Visualisation
Environments.” Proc. AVI’06, pp.13-16, 2006
[6] M. Hirano, I. Kase, A. Narita, K. Kobayashi, H. Nakanishi, and H. Ishii, “A Tangible Interface
for  IP  Network  Simulation.”  in  Extended  Abstracts  of  Conference  on  Human  Factors  in
Computing Systems (CHI '03)
[7] R. Scollon, and S. Wong, Discourses in Place, Taylor & Francis Ltd, 2003.
[8] N. Nova, F. Girardin, and P. Dillenbourg, “Location is not Enough! an Empirical Study of
Location Awareness in Mobile Collaboration.” Proc. WMTE 2005.
計畫參與者目前使用經驗法則達成。
7. 設計行動服務的腳本 (scenarios)，並依此整合以上的技術。
完全達成。見報告中之行動音樂服務以及其它腳本設計。
8. 研究並評估各種人稱觀點互動模式，例如第一、第二、及第三人稱的應
用。
目前行動端一般使用第一人稱, 實驗室平台端使用第二與第三人稱。詳細
人稱觀點須要更多探討。
9. 分析及研究標籤式媒體，在此混合實境平台上的互動及顯示方式。
完全達成。
