 I 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究成果報告 
相關性演算法於高頻超音波影像之微循環血流量測 
Apply correlation-based algorithm to estimate microcirculation blood flow in 
high-frequency ultrasound image 
 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-007-107- 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：葉秩光  清華大學生醫工程與環境科學系 
 
摘要 
    在之前的研究中，我們開發了高解析度對比劑輔助破裂/回充影像系統，根據本系統可
以評估微循環的血流速度。微循環血流量的評估可以藉由血流截面積與血流速度相乘得
到，本研究針對微循環破裂/充回影像，發展相關性與相減的方法，評估微循環血流截面積。
本研究的應用包括小動物腫瘤微循環評估與皮膚血管的臨床研究。 
 
關鍵字： 超音波對比劑、高頻超音波、微循環、血流截面積 
 
Abstract 
    We have developed a high resolution contrast-assisted destruction/reperfusion imaging 
system in previous works. Based on this system, the microcirculation blood velocity can be 
measured. The volumetric microcirculation blood flow rate is determined by the multiplication of 
the perufsed area and the corresponding blood flow velocity mapping. In this study, we developed 
correlation-based approach (CBA) and sum-absolute-difference approach (SADA) to assess the 
microcirculation perfused area based on the microcirculation destruction/reperfusion images. 
Potential applications of this study include high-resolution flow assessment in small animal 
tumor and the evaluation of superficial vasculature in clinical studies.  
 
 
Keyword： ultrasound contrast agents, high frequency ultrasound, microcirculation, blood 
perfused area. 
 2 
For accurately quantitative microcirculation assessment, both correlation-based and 
subtraction-absolute-difference techniques are adopted in this study to extract and locate the 
perfusion area based on the high resolution UCAs destruction/reperfusion images. 
II. Methodology  
Microcirculation blood perfused area estimation was performed on the UCAs 
destruction/reperfusion B-mode images. Two adjacent images including  pre-destruction frame 
and post-destruction frame were required to achieve this objective. 
A. Correlation-based approach (CBA) 
The CBA analysis is performed on short, sliding overlapping sample windows on received RF 
signals. The profile along the depth direction is given by  
         
0
0 0
1 21 2
1 ( 1)
1,2
2 2
1 21 2
1 ( 1) 1 ( 1)
0
( [ ] ) ( [ ] )
[ ]
( [ ] ) ( [ ] )
          1...... 1,  
L
n n
k n
L L
n n
k n k n
w
w
S k S S k S
n
S k S S k S
N Ln L L
ρ = + − ∆
= + − ∆ = + − ∆
∑
∑ ∑
− ⋅ −
=
− ⋅ −
−= + ∆ = −∆
         (2) 
where  and  are backscattered signals before and after UCAs fragmentation and k denotes 
samples of both signals. N is the total number of range samples. The number of range samples per 
sample window is  and the number of overlapping range samples is . 
1S 2S
wL 0L 1nS  and 2nS  are 
the mean value of  and  for nth window, respectively. The fact that tissues in flow 
phantom or microcirculation are almost stationary resulting in both phase and amplitude of echo 
signal from tissue in  and  are similar and the absolute value of 
1S 2S
1S 2S 1,2ρ  is close to 1. Due to 
the lack of UCAs response in , the echo signals from perfusion area in  and  would be 
different and the absolute value of 
2S 1S 2S
1,2ρ  approaches to zero. 
 
B. Sum-absolute-difference approach (SADA) 
Another approach that can be used instead of the CBA is sum-absolute-difference approach. 
The SADA was a widely used method to distinguish difference between signals and was 
performed on the baseband demodulated RF signals in our study. The SAD profile along the 
depth direction is given by 
0
1,2 1 2
1 ( 1)
[ ] | [ ] [ ] |,
1...... 1
L n
k n
w
SAD n S k S k
N Ln
+ ∆
= + − ∆
∑= −
−= +∆　
                   (3) 
where  is the sum absolute difference of the windowed baseband  and  signals. 
The complexity and computation process of SAD method are less than correlation-based 
1,2[ ]SAD n 1S 2S
 4 
 
D. Experimental setup 
The B-mode UCAs destruction/reperfusion experimental system was built. A block diagram 
of the experiment setup is shown in Fig 2. The destruction/reperfusion system consists of two 
single-element transducers with spherical focus. A 25 MHz transducer (model V324, GE 
Panametrics, Waltham, MA) was used for data acquisition, and the other 1-MHz transducer 
(model V303, GE Panametrics, Waltham, MA) was used for UCAs fragmentation. Both 
transducers were arranged confocally. The characteristics of 25 MHz and 1 MHz transducer are 
summarized in Table. 1 and 2, respectively. 
Table 1. Simulated transducer characteristics 
Central frequency 25 MHz 
Element diameter 6.35 
Focal length 12.7 
-6 dB bandwidth 60% 
-6 dB (-3 dB) depth of focus 3.2/2.6 
-6 dB (-3 dB) elevational beamwidth 0.11/0.08 
Units: mm  
 
  The B-mode UCAs destruction/reperfusion experimental system was built. A block diagram of 
the experiment setup is shown in Fig 2. The destruction/reperfusion system consists of two 
single-element transducers with spherical focus. A 25 MHz transducer (model V324, GE 
Panametrics, Waltham, MA) was used for data acquisition, and the other 1-MHz transducer 
(model V303, GE Panametrics, Waltham, MA) was used for UCAs fragmentation. Both 
transducers were arranged confocally. The characteristics of 25 MHz and 1 MHz transducer are 
summarized in Table. 1 and 2, respectively.  
The pulser/receiver (model 5900PR, Panametric, Waltham, MA) provided impulse excitation 
to the 25 MHz transducer and received the signal through a transformer diplexer/diode limiter 
circuit. The received signal was amplified by 31 dB with a low-noise preamplifier (model 
AU-1114-BNC, Miteq, Hauppauge, NY) and then further amplified by 42 dB within 
pulser/receiver. The RF echoes were digitized at 120 MSPS by a 14-bit analog-to-digital board 
(model PCI-9820, AdLink INC, Taiwan) and stored in M-mode format on a PC for offline 
processing in Matlab (Mathworks, Natick, MA). The 1 MHz destruction pulses were generated 
by a programnable arbitrary waveform board (model 5300, TE, Israel) and were then amplified 
by an RF power amplifier (model 150A100B, AR, Bothell, WA) to produce the acoustic pressure 
ranging from 0 to 0.7 MPa. In our previous study, we found that over 95% UCAs can be 
destroyed by 0.6 MPa and 10 –cycle pulses length. The TTL triggers for 25 MHz and 1MHz 
pulses sequences were generated by A/D standard clock. Using a counter/timer board (PCI-6602, 
 6 
|
A. Simulation results 
The ultrasound signals received before and after UCAs fragmentation were simulated as shown 
in Fig 3. The stationary scatterers represent the tissue and the different size scatterers with 
random backscatter coefficient represent the UCAs. In this simulation, the random backscatter 
coefficient is normally distributed with mean of 1, and standard deviation of 0.3. A random noise 
of normal distribution (mean=0, σ=1) was also added to the simulated signals.  
Figures 3(a) and (b) show the simulated RF A-scan signals with and without UCAs. The SNR 
is 10 dB. As shown in Fig 3(a), the received signal includes backscatters from tissue and UCAs. 
In Fig 3(b), the dashed line box denotes the blood perfused region. The real UCAs distribution 
region ranges from 12.2 to 13.3 mm in depth. A slight error could be observed in the boundary 
between tissue and UCAs distribution region due to the limited axial resolution. Figure 3(c) 
shows the correlation-coefficient profile along the wave propagation direction. The | ρ was 
calculated by means of equation (2). The window length was defined as 160 µm and 90% overlap 
corresponded to the spatial resolution of 25 MHz transducer. In order to separate perfusion area 
from tissues, a threshold value was defined as 0.8 in this study. The area below the threshold can 
be viewed as contrast rich regions. 
 
Fig 3. (a) and (b) are the simulating RF signals with and without the response of contrast agents, 
respectively. The dashed line box denotes the perfusion region. (c) is the correlation profile along 
the depth direction between (a) and (b), the dashed line represents the threshold value. 
 
In Fig 4(a), the dashed and solid lines were the demodulated RF signals corresponded to Fig 
3(a) and (b), respectively. The difference results from the existence of UCAs in perfusion area 
can be easily observed between two signals. Since the subtraction process could discriminate the 
difference of amplitude between signals, the baseband demodulated RF signals were used in 
SADA. 
With similar conditions, subtraction profile was calculated by means of equation (3) as shown 
in Fig 4(b). A threshold value was required to separate the UCAs signals from noise. Selecting a 
region was obviously filled with UCAs (the dashed line box in Fig 4(a)). Then calculating the 
standard deviation over whole region in SAD profile was referred to as the threshold value (as 
dashed line in Fig 4(b)). The area above the threshold can be viewed as contrast rich regions.  
 8 
B. Perfused area assessment in B-mode image 
Figure 5(a) and (b) are the UCAs destruction/replenishment B-mode images of flow phantom 
with dynamic range of 40 dB and the SNR is 17.7 dB. The flow rate of UCA solution was 90 
mL/hr (1.27 mm/s). Figure 5(a) shows the pre-destruction frame with the backscattering signals 
from cotton and intact UCAs. Figure 5(b) is the frame which was immediately acquired after 
transmitting destruction pulses.  
A sliding and 90% overlapping kernel block with the size of 160 µm by 160 µm was used to 
assess the perfusion area. In CBA process, the threshold value was selected as 0.8. The region 
below the threshold was colored by green as shown in Fig 5(c).  
For SADA process, the threshold value was obtained by calculating the standard deviation of 
the SAD within a region of interest (ROI) as shown in Fig 5(a). The region above the threshold 
was also colored by green as show in Fig 5(d). Herein, each pixel size is 256 µm2. The total 
estimation perfusion area with CBA and SADA are 0.49 and 0.64 mm2. The statistics results of 
pattern similarity were summarized in Fig 6. Figure 6 shows the high correlation (> 80%) of the 
estimation results between the two approaches. 
 
 
Fig. 5. (a) and (b) are the B-mode destruction/reperfusion images before and after microbubble 
destruction, respectively. Results of perfusion area estimation with CBA and SADA are shown in 
(c) and (d). 
 
 
Fig. 6 Pattern correlation statistics results of CBA and SADA. 
 
IV. Discussion 
Two approaches of CBA and SADA have been proposed. Both approaches were performed on 
B-mode images. The kernel window size determines the resolution of perfused area estimation, 
