 2
A musical instrument should be made to fit the instrumentalist (Dawson, 1997). An improperly 
designed instrument injures the player and decreases the efficiency and job satisfaction of users (Sanders 
and McCormick, 1993). The yinqing is a common yet important musical instrument played during 
worship in Buddhist or Taoist services in East Asian countries, especially China and Taiwan. The 
yinqing, occasionally referred to as the small handheld qinq or liu yin, normally comprises a copper bowl, 
a straight handle, and a metal wand, which is attached to the copper bowl (Fig. 1 of A). Individuals use 
the metal wand to beat the copper bowl in order to tap out clear sounds. The yinqing is generally played 
by an encomiastic group that comprises seven to ten eulogists for worshiping the Buddhist Scriptures (or 
Taoist Scriptures), with various musical instruments played each morning and during a specific feast (Fig. 
1 of B), including the wooden fish (a Buddhist percussion instrument), cymbal, handle bell, qing (a metal 
bowl placed open side up on a cushion and struck with a stick), ling (a small bell with a clapper, 
hand-ring by Buddhist and Taoist priests), and yinqing. Yinqing is among the most of these instruments 
since it controls the rhythm during worship. 
Holding the yinqing during instrumental play is a complex gesture. The handle of the yinqing is held 
with the left hand, while the metal wand is grasped with the thumb, index and middle fingers; the index 
finger controls the metal to make clear sounds by striking the copper bowl. Individuals holding the 
yinqing with their left hand also must control the qing with their right hand to hold a stick to strike 
during worship; the qing rests on a table (Fig. 1 of C). 
According to the pilot study results, playing a yinqing during worship leads to unnatural postures and 
resulting in postural discomfort. Improving the ‘fit’ between the performer and the instrument is thus of 
priority concern. Unnatural postures and postural discomfort have been identified as risk factors for 
upper extremity injury problems. Those problems can be alleviated via design/ redesign. Therefore, this 
study thus investigates the postures, postural discomfort and the muscular effort expended while playing 
an eastern musical instrument, the yinqing, with EMG measurements and qualitative evaluations.  
 
 4
182mm, a free form hook (in which the hook was made of ABS), and the weight of 170g. The materials 
of the redesign yinqing are copper for a bowl, ABS plastic for a handle and a wand, metal for the tip 
section of the wand for striking the copper bowl to make a sound (Fig.2). The center gravity of yinqing is 
on the former section of the handle near the lower center of the copper bowl. The free form hook of the 
yinqing leans lightly against the jaw’s mouth between the fingers of thumb and index; the curve wand is 
manipulated by the four fingers of index, middle, ring and pinky. The gesture of the left hand displays a 
bow-shaped form while holding the redesigned yinqing. 
 
 
 
Fig.2. The redesign yinqing of No. 1 
 
  
  The redesign yinqing of No.2 is cylindrical, causing the fingers to concentrate firmly around an object 
and overlapped by the thumb. A large contact area should be available, with no concentrations of local 
high pressure to prevent strength of a grip being hindered by discomfort. The handle with a diameter of 
35 mm and a length of 132 mm is sufficient to separate the finger tips from the palm (Fig.3). 
 
Fig.3. The redesign yinqing of No.2 
 
 6
disorders on their upper-limb before.   
2.2.2 Experiment design and task 
  One original yinqing and three redesign yinqings were used for the experimentation. The dependent 
variables were the muscular effort, posture and postural discomfort. Subjects were requested to use each 
yinqing with a standing body-posture. Each yinqing was played for 40sec based on the rhythm of the 
mechanical metronome, which swings by one second setting. The subjects played one touch per second. 
Totally, 40 beats were recorded by the electromyography (EMG) device, but only the data of the middle 
of 30 beats (30 sec) was selected to use for statistical analysis.   
2.2.3 Material 
The materials of this study are the yinqing and visual analogue discomfort scales. The original yinqing 
is commonly available in the market, which is constructed from a straight handle length of 240mm, a 
metal wand length of 235mm, a copper bowl with the diameter of 50mm; the metal wand is attached to 
the copper bowl. The total weight of the yinqing is 210g. The visual analogue discomfort scales were 
design for this study, which was designed with 100mm ranging from ‘no discomfort’ to ‘extreme 
discomfort’. Subjects were asked to rate on a 100mm visual analogue scale for each yinqing after 
playing. 
2.2.4 EMG measurements and qualitative evaluations  
2.2.4.1 EMG measurements 
  The equipment to determine the surface of EMG is readily available in many clinical settings (Ardic et 
al., 2000), i.e. an effective means of evaluating and recording the activation signal of muscles, and has 
been the major quantitative determinant of muscular effort in studying cumulative trauma disorders (Li, 
2002). The iEMG signal is a data collection of EMG, which has gained acceptance for monitoring 
muscle fatigue, is median frequency shift; this approach is based on the observation that the median 
frequency of the iEMG power spectrum decreases over time with sustained isometric contraction (Roy et 
al., 1988). This decline in the median frequency has been observed often and in a variety of muscles and 
 8
allotted five minutes to practice the four yinqing and a practice session to become familiar with the 
experimental procedure. Subjects were instructed to take off all accessories on the left hand such as 
watches and jewelry, and rest for five minutes after the practice session to proceed with the formal 
experiment. Before the formal experiment, EMG surface electrodes were attached to the four muscles of 
the left hand after a standard skin preparation. The rhythm of the mechanical metronome was then set to 
make rhythm sounds. A digital video was placed on the right hand side of the subject with a tripod to 
record the posture while playing the yinqing. The subjects’ standing position was marked with a piece of 
tape on the floor. Following, a visual analogue discomfort scale was given for discomfort rating. 
2.2.6 Statistical analysis 
  ANOVA was used to analyze the four muscular efforts when playing four yinqing instruments. The 
Duncan-test was used for comparing the four yingin while the ANOVA results show the signification. As 
the discomfort data was positively skewed, the discomfort experienced when using the four types of 
yinqing was compared using a Wilcoxon signed-rank test. The selected critical level of alpha 
significance for the tests was p= 0.05. 
3. Results 
3.1 EMG measurements 
  The results revealed that the original and three redesigned yinqing significantly differed on the 
muscles of FDS (p< 0.05), OPT (p< 0.05) and DIBTIF (p< 0.05), only the muscle of ECRLB did not 
show the significant difference (p> 0.05). For the muscle of FDS, the redesigned yinqing had less 
muscular efforts than the original Yinqing. The redesigned yinqing had less muscular efforts on muscles 
of FDS, OPT and DIBTIF than the original Yinqing while playing. Fig. 5 showed the experimentation 
simulation before formal testing for checking the procedure of the experimentation. Fig. 6 showed the 
formal testing for every Yinqing with attaching the EMG surface electrodes. 
 
 
 10
3.2 Qualitative evaluations 
3.2.1 Posture and holding position 
  For posture and the holding position of using an original yinqing, as is well known, playing a musical 
instrument requires extremely complex sensor motor programming of hand and finger movements. As 
for the holding position when playing the yinqing, all subjects held the yinqing similarly; the difference 
was only occurred on with the thumb finger compressed by the handle of the yinqing. Most users 
depended the handle on the flank edge of the second knuckle of the thumb, few users depended the 
handle on the flank edge of fingernail muscle of the thumb (the first knuckle of the thumb). 
  According to results of the direct observations, playing a yinqing might lead to an unnatural hand 
posture and obviously cause discomfort. The postures taken when playing the yinqing can be 
summarized as follows: (1) an unnatural wrist posture; (2) The index finger was overused and displayed 
an unnatural posture; (3) The thumb was compressed by the handle of the yinqing; (4) The entire weight 
of the yinqing rests on the wooden handle, subsequently concentrating the pressure on a small and less 
sensitive area of the hand palm; (5) The thumb and the index fingers were compressed by the metal wand; 
(6) The yinqing is top-heavy and difficult to hold. The bowl of the yinqing is made of copper; its size is 
too large and too heavy; and (7) The chain used for holding the wooden handle and metal wand of the 
yinqing inhibits playing the instrument. Moreover, the chain is too long for easy use. The long chain 
occasionally entwines the handle or the finger. In contrast, when users use the redesigned yinqing, 
analytical results indicated that users’ holding and playing postures are natural and easy. Importantly, 
essential design factors for the redesigned yinqing are an increase in holding stability, balance in the 
weight of the instrument, a large contact area, and a repetitive finger action to replace the four finger 
action. Fig. 7 shows the original Yinqing holding postures and positions.  
  Yinqing redesign focuses on minimizing unnatural postures, decreasing the concentration of pressure 
on a small and less sensitive area of the hand palm, diminishing the compression on fingers, exerting less 
energy during play, improving balance of the instrument during use, simplifying its use, and increasing 
satisfaction among performers. Fig.8(a,b,c) shows three redesign Yinqing holding postures and positions. 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8(a) The holding postures and positions of the redesign Yinqing of No.1  
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8(c) The holding postures and positions of the redesign Yinqing of No.3 
 16
5. Conclusions  
  Yinqing is among the most important instruments used during worship in conjunction with the 
Buddhist or Taoist Scriptures. Holding the yinqing to play is an extremely complex gesture. This study 
attempts to adopt ergonomic design aspects in Far Eastern percussion instruments for facilitating the 
worship of a mass number of Chinese and overseas nationals who are interested the Eastern religion, as 
well as providing them with a safe activity without adverse effects. Problems in the existing yinqing, 
which exacerbate user fatigue or difficulty during playing, are also identified in this study. Via the 
redesigned yinqing, this study achieves the design targets of easy in play, enhanced holding stability, a 
balance in the instrument weight, and a large contact surface for playing. Moreover, significant results of 
EMG activities and postural discomfort are found between using the original and a redesigned yinqing. A 
natural posture is also observed while playing the redesigned yinqing.
 18
Roy, SH, De Luca, CJ and Casavant, DA, 1988. Lumbar Muscle Fatigue and Chronic Lower 
Back Pain. Spine, 14, 992-1001. 
Sanders, M.S., McCormick, E., 1993. Human Factors in Engineering and Design. Seventh 
Edition, McGRAW-HILL, INC. Singapore. 
Silverstein, B.A., Fine, L.J., Armstrong, T.J., 1986. Hand wrist cumulative trauma disorders in 
industry. Brit. J. Ind. Med. 43, 779-984.  
Tichauer, E., 1978. The biomechanical basis of ergonomics. New York: Wiley. 
Visser, J. L., Straker, L. M, 1994. An investigation of discomfort experienced by dental 
therapists and assistants at work. Aust. Dent. J. 39(1), 39-44. 
Woodson, W. E., 1981. Human factors design handbook. McGraw-Hill, New York. 
Wu, F.G. and Luo, S., 2006. Design and evaluation approach for increasing stability and 
performance of touch pens in screen handwriting tasks. Appl. Ergon. 37 (3), 319-327. 
Zaza, C., 1998. Playing-related musculoskeletal disorders in musicians: a systematic review of 
incidence and prevalence. Can. Med. Assoc. J. 158(8), 1019-1025. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 22
     國內實踐大學的設計大樓，我猜想實踐在創校時應該有參考該大學的環境。這 
     環境除了提供大空間給與設計與藝術的學生外，同時該空間在使用上是具彈性 
     設計的，它可以是工作室，也可以是展演空間，亦可當學生舉行舞會或其他課 
     外活動的場地。大空間裡有具彈性設計的展示版或可以說隔間板，部展演時他 
     是居格空間與空間之間的物件，需要展演時他能提供作為展演展示版。另外最 
     令人印象深刻的是該大學旁的市集，很多設計大學學生的設計作品在這裡販售 
     與展演，該地方是位於溫哥華的小島上，有其獨特一格的味道。 
05/26 參觀溫哥華博物館。 
05/27 由市中心出發前往主辦研討會的場地。向主辦單位報到，領取大會手冊資料。 
     並於傍晚參加該研討會的開幕儀式，聆聽兩場演講。 
05/28 上午 09:00 出席大會安排的 keynote speech, Innovative approaches to dealing with 
population aging. 10:00 以後即出席各分組會場，聽取論文發表及參與討論。下午
出席 13:30-15:00、15:30-16:3 及 17:00-18:30 三場的分組論文研討會，參與研討。
晚間，大會安排鮭魚晚宴，會中安排有娛樂活動。 
05/29 上午 09:00-10:00 出席大會安排的 keynote speech, Technology for caregivers of Frail 
Elders。之後出席 10:30-12:00 的分組論文研討會，參與研討。中午出席海報發表
之會場，與提問學者進行學術交流。下午則聽取論文發表及參與討論。 
05/30 上 午 09:00-10:00 出 席 大 會 安 排 的 keynote speech, What is the contribution of 
technology to aging-in-place? 之後出席分組論文研討會，參與研討。下午則參與
閉幕式。並在會後與各國學者前往市中心與海港參觀。 
05/31 參觀加拿大溫哥華著名的卑斯大學 University of British Columbia。 
06/01 準備回台。但因當地交通因素無法趕上撘乘原訂班機，故請求長榮航空予以後
補機位。(因長榮航空一週僅飛三天，故晚兩日回台) 
06/02 參觀西門菲沙大學 Simon Fraser University 及 ISG 中心。 
06/03 從加拿大溫哥華市中心出發，搭機回台北桃園國際機入境，再回亞洲大學。 
 24
流及推銷台灣學術於國際具有良好的意義。出席這次的研討會同時可以了解各國在
此研究領域研究的現況，以及國際未來的關於老化議題研究趨勢與方向，可作為今
後研究主題的參考。總体而言，此次會議收益良多。綜合歸納心得如下: 1) 設計應
可以進一步專注於老化社會的需求，將人因設計理論與實務並重在此議題多多專
研。2) 台灣對於老話族群的設計與關懷之研究能量不亞於國際，甚至有超前之趨
勢，因次建議今後的研究議題上應該可更加的鼓勵。3) 台灣已具備相當的設計能
力，得以教育大學生今後從老化的議題上進行設計研究與設計實作，培養設計暨研
究能力兼備的人才，與世界同步。 
三、建議 
  感謝國科會的經費支持，使後學有機會參與本次的國際研討會。出席此次會議，敝
人獲益良多。參與論文發表，可以和到論文發表會現場的國際人士交流互動，成效
很好，同時也可得知自己不足的與應該強化的。不僅對於自己有助益，同時對宣傳
台灣研究於國際也有甚多的助益。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 研討會論文集 1 冊。 
2. Proceedings of International Society for Gerontechnology 7th World Conference (ISG 
2010)。 
五、其他 
感謝我國國家科會委員會的經費補助，使此次的國際研討會能夠順利完成。收益
良多，特此致謝。 
六、附錄 
1. 發表的論文全文: The Effects of Ergonomic redesigns of an Eastern percussion 
instrument on elderly performers
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年07月21日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
佛道教誦經法器之人因研究
羅書宜
96 -2221-E -468 -006 -MY3 人因工程與工業設計
柳音結構之改良
The function redesign of Liu-in
亞洲大學 羅書宜
引磬俗稱小手磬，又名柳音。其形似小碗，直徑約為五至八餘公分，底部中央
貫以紐，附木柄供握持，另有小鐵棒供敲擊磬，使之發出聲響。木柄與小鐵棒
之間鑲以小鏈作為輔助握持時得以同時夾捏小鐵棒之敲擊的進行。行走誦唸時
，敲擊磬邊，其清脆之聲用以引導、控制行儀的速度，故名引磬。引磬的握持
拿法方式乃所有法器中最複雜的，有別於一般打擊法器左手持物件右手持棒敲
擊的方式。其握持方式是以單手使用之，一般使用左手。在誦經的過程中，掌
管引罄的人也要負責磬的敲擊，其餘法器則一人負責一項。磬的敲擊只有在經
文起承轉合時使用，使用的時間很短。引磬則在誦經的過程中持續的被使用，
除了單手握持敲擊外，在經文讚誦過程中若行至讚佛的句子時，則需握持著引
磬敲擊並屈膝跪拜。
鑒於現今的引磬在使用上有不自然姿勢及因姿勢所引發的不適症的現象, 本專
利之引磬結構的改良將致力於好握好敲奏的目標。此結構之改良，包含發音部
、敲擊部及掛持部，藉掛持部之支撐令發音部可以掛持，以敲擊部敲擊發音部
產生悅耳的聲音。The yinqing, occasionally referred to as the small handheld qinq or
liu yin, normally comprises a copper bowl, a straight handle, and a
metal wand, which is attached to the copper bowl. Individuals use the
metal wand to beat the copper bowl in order to tap out clear sounds.
Holding the yinqing during instrumental play is a complex gesture.
The handle of the yinqing is held with the left hand, while the metal
wand is grasped with the thumb, index and middle fingers; the index
finger controls the metal to make clear sounds by striking the copper
bowl.
View at playing a yinqing during worship leads to unnatural postures
and resulting in postural discomfort. Therefore, this improved
structure of Liuyin aimed at improving the holding and playing. The
improved structure parts including the sound object, striking and其他服務業
技術性質：產品改良技術
產業別：宗教用具製造商、宗教相關協會與團體、宗教研究機構
1.技術使用市場：國內目前可承接技術廠商家數（約）1-10 家
2.2.產品市場︰國內市場年產值（約）NT$ 100-300萬元 (含大陸) [日本人也用柳音
]
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：■已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
投稿 SCI 期刊之兩篇論文目前正在審查中 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本研究鑒於引磬法器在宮廟讚頌中扮演重要的角色、以及它被握持的複雜性與特殊性、和
在與人互動後所存在眾多的操作問題等因素，故擬從人因的角度，發現人的資訊 (使用動
作、特性、問題與需求之生心理各種因素) 運用到引磬的設計上。台灣文化創意產業乃目
前政府正積極推動之產業。本研究計劃探討的議題乃以創意為核心之文化創意產品-宗教
文化之引磬。透過本研究三年之研究成果，創新設計出的法器將可提供地方文化產品之創
新設計、民間工藝品或宗教文化商品製造商製造之參考。本研究之研究結果實踐了從文化
創意產品的研究與設計發展中加入人性化的設計考量、提昇使用滿意度的品質，開發地方
性、傳統性、創意性、人性的文化特色與資源，走出地方，趨向全球化商品消費網絡中，
發揚台灣地方宗教特色，實現在地化即全球化的目標。 
