2 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN AND YI-YEN WANG  
achieve some goals that we might skip during the decision making. These 
potential design goals named implicit intended solution is the problem 
spaces we want to explore in this research. Therefore, the continuous 
thinking/operation process cross these fragmented design decision 
might show some insights for discovering implicit intended solutions. 
As two folds of this problem, without exploration and its continuous 
iteration characteristics, these solutions might not even be found or 
possible found. Therefore, in this paper we have conducted a research 
from visualizing these implicit intended solutions as well the 
exploration process for finding them. 
 
While the implicit intended solutions are implicit and difficult to 
represent, the visualization of these solutions might be the way to understand 
the solutions themselves. On the other hand, the relations between two 
design solutions (often represented visually with pictures) are represented by 
diagrams. Several diagrams are developed and used in different phrases of 
design stages such as state space diagrams, design analysis diagrams and so 
on. For the process nature of our research, state space search diagrams 
(shown in Figure 1) are used as the conceptual model for our visualization.  
 
Figure 1: A generic of search, (Woodbury 1991) 
In addition, the exploration process for state space search is described and 
modified according to our research intention—finding the implicit intended 
solutions among fragmented design decisions. The following sessions show 
the often used design diagrams as the possible visualization of our design 
process and the continuous exploration over these diagrams. 
1.1 DESIGN DIAGRAMS 
Diagrams in design domains can be divided into five groups including 1) the 
structure analysis of design cases or the document of design process; 2) 
design sketches; 3) special design expression; 4) as explanation of the design 
concept; 5) grammatical expression such as shape grammars 
4 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN AND YI-YEN WANG  
Furthermore, the folding inspired by Computational Origami (Andersen 
2002) provides the mathematical foundation for 3D diagrams representation 
as well as the continuous media—time-based media that is used for our 
conceptual metaphor of our design graph. 
2. Research Steps 
With the design information—design diagrams in place, continuous 
operation cross these diagrams need to be visualized in order to understand 
the exploration process itself. Therefore, the design problem in this paper is 
divided into two parts: 1) how to use continuous (time-based) media to 
visualize the design process in the diagrams selected (in this paper, Peter 
Eisenman’s diagrams); and 2) how to elaborate the design graph according 
to the lessons learned from the visualization of design process: Four steps 
are described as follow 
First step is time-based media reviews. We need to discover a way to 
integrate the continuous characteristics of continuity. Time-based media is 
the domain in our focus because of its time factors and visual feedbacks. The 
review criteria are based on how we can integrate the mechanism into 
derivation-like graph and with the design diagrams available. 
Based on the reviews, organizing the continuous form transformation 
appeared in the diagrams into the derivation like design graph representation 
is the second step. The lessons learned from the case studies are adopted for 
defining and designing the design graph in focus. 
Thirdly, the exploration criteria are elaborated and simulated in finding 
implicit intended solutions in the design graph. By simulation, exploration 
process is argued and discussed for finding possible characteristics of 
continuous exploration process. With observation and evaluation, the 
features of time-based design graph are unleashed and a possible conceptual 
model for design process is generated which we name it time-based design 
graph. 
3. Time-Based Media Reviews 
Time-based media, in general, describes the information with extra factor—
time, and the continuous transformation over time. With the continuous 
operations over design diagrams, time-based visualization for the diagrams 
and the continuous operations (folding in this case) provides the continuous 
visualization over form transformation. Time-based media with its 
continuous nature—time provides the fourth dimension view on the 3D 
diagrams above. 
6 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN AND YI-YEN WANG  
 
Figure 4: Multiple stages containing multiple timelines 
4. Learning from Diagrams—defining design graph representation 
Based on the reviews above, we organizing the continuous form 
transformation appeared in the diagrams into the derivation like design graph 
representation. Starting from observation, graph structure analysis, each is 
described as followed. 
 
4.1 OBSERVATION AND GRAPH STRUCTURE ANALYSIS 
Design diagrams used in this research is Project Emory Arts Center from 
(Eisenman 1999) (sample of diagrams and the model created are shown in 
Figure 5). With time-based characteristics described above, each derivation 
path is conducted as an animation series and represented as a sequence of 
derivation vertices in the derivation like graph. The derivation is mapped as 
the form transformation from one vertex (one diagram) to another vertex 
(diagram). 
 
Figure 5: Diagram and model of Emory Arts Centre 
8 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN AND YI-YEN WANG  
decisions are made, the continuous operation can generate detailed different 
alternatives with fine tune; 2) each solution can be generated via various 
path while each path might reflect some part of design thinking; different 
path can provide continuous decision making vertex constantly and 
effectively; 3) Each vertex represents one operation with parameters defined, 
therefore, the continue operation and the transition between operations can 
provide more diverse design solution; 4) due to the nature of derivation, 
multiple timelines are desirable; 5) comparison between different 
alternatives and different path can provide better visual feedback, and 
different timelines are also able to be compared according to the time factor. 
These five phenomena show some insights for providing a better design 
graph, especially for the design itself and the way to achieve the design. 
5. Time-Based Design Graph 
Following the analysis and five phenomena unleashed above, the Time-
Based Design Graph should provide 1) design decision making should lay 
out the discrete derivation graph before the continuous exploration occurs; 2) 
the edges between vertices provide a memory mechanism for the transition 
between vertices; 3) generative characteristics can be defined as creating 
new vertices on the graph; 4) two or more timelines are the key for 
integrating derivation information with continuous operations; 5) should 
have the capabilities to visualize and compare different design paths with 
intuitive interface.  
During the exploration process among the graph, two-dimensional 
timelines should be able to represent the dynamic characteristics. In addition, 
from the time-based media reviews, we discover, if we want to visualize and 
compare multiple dynamic solutions, layers are one of key metaphors for 
two or more continuous processes. Different event in different context can 
also generate diverse procedural information. An example of Time-Based 
Design Graph is shown in Figure 8. 
10 TENG-WEN CHANG, CHING-JUNG LIN AND YI-YEN WANG  
can have more development, by the continuity of the design process so that 
we can let designers to explore the design decision-making. Therefore, when 
design process add the factor which one is continuous, the design process 
step is: 1) decision-making, 2) and observe, 3) exploration, 4) then decision-
making again. If we can make the different timeline paths to compare each 
other, exploration of the design process will be better. 
Single timeline can’t to show the design process enough. Different paths 
simultaneously representation is important. We will make the decision first 
and observe, when we in the continuity of the design process. And the 
timeline will help us to exploration possible solution. Therefore, the compute 
is the good way to help designers to record every process and path. 
Recording can let timelines to compare each other, due to this the design 
process step will be: 1) decision-making, 2) and observe, 3) exploration, 4)to 
compare, 5) then decision-making .It will help designer to comprehend the 
concept of design. In the future, we will using compute to record the design 
process and develop the Multi-timeline system to support designer to explore 
the possible solution. 
 
References 
Andersen, EM: 2002, "Paperfolding."  
Chang, T-w: 2008-2009, "A sutdy of Applying Time-based Design Model on Representing 
Continuous Form Transformation." national science council  
Dionisio, JDN and Cárdenas, AF: 1998, A Unified Data Model for Representing Multimedia, 
Timeline, and Simulation Data, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND 
DATA ENGINEERING, 10[5]. 
Eisenman, P: 1999, Peter Eisenman Diagram Diaries, Universe Publishing. 
Girgensohn, A, Shipman, F, Dunnigan, A, Turner, T and Wilcox, L: 2006, Support for 
Effective Use of Multiple Video Streams in Security, in, International Multimedia 
Conference, Santa Barbara, California, USA pp: 19-26. 
Lynn, G: 1999, Animate Form 1, Princeton Architectural Press. 
Woodbury, RF: 1991, Search for Design: Paradigm and Practice, Building and Eneirment, 
26(1): 61-73. 
 
 
those outside processes it effects? 
(資料來源: CAADRIA 官方網站 http://www.caadria.org/index.html) 
1.3 研討會網站 
 
圖 3: CAADRIA2008 泰國宣傳網站-介紹頁 
 
圖 4: CAADRIA2008 泰國宣傳網站-主題頁 
 
1.4 2008 行程表 
04 月 08 日第一天：參加 steering committee dinner，和學會組織主要成員餐敘，宣傳台灣舉
辦優勢，主辦決心，以及預計舉辦活動規畫事項。在會中提出對於國外人士在台灣接待安排，例如機
場交通接送、研討會期間住宿接送、返國接送等。並紀錄參加人員對於參訪及在台灣發表學術論文時，
對於台灣認知需求，與會人士期望活動以台灣在地的文化活動為主，透過活動來認識台灣，如同泰國
  
  
  
                                圖 10: 歡迎活動場地 
04 月 10 日第三天：擴大 Steering Committee 會議，報告準備情形與申請內容。 
第一天提出 CAARRIA2009 舉辦議題及遴選 CAADRIA 組織新成員，在擴大會議中，提出對
於主題說明，以及回覆參與人員對於明年度主題的建議。主題確定外並討論主題所涵蓋子項
目，透過更廣泛討論可將輔助設計領域都列入研討會議題，在數位時代趨勢下各類型設計活
動皆包含設計運算思維，經過與會人士討論與修正對於之前所列主題修正後如附件。同時報
告 2009 承辦單位國立雲林科技大學，由設計學院負責規畫 2009 年研討會事項，目前各項業
務已有專司負責組別負責籌備，提出籌備說明讓 CAADRIA 組織與成員能清楚了解，對於迎接
CAADRIA 國際研討會舉辦，國立雲林科技大學已做好準備。 
   
   
   
圖 11:  研討會現場 
 
