 行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
金屬/陶瓷界面工程: 金屬/陶瓷界面改質 
計畫編號 : NSC 95-2216-E-002 -043  
執行期限 : 95 年 2 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月31 日 
主持人: 段維新 教授  
共同主持人: Michel Dupeux 教授  
執行機構: 國立台灣大學材料科學及工程學研究所 
計畫參與人員: 李炤佑, 郭書廷, 靳元良  
 
 
 
一. 摘要 
 
The adhesion strength between a porous 
silver coating and pure barium titanate has been 
determined using a blister test. The porous Ag layer 
was made by screen printing and sintering on a flat 
dense barium titanate surface. Firing temperature 
influences the porosity of the silver film and 
Ag/BaTiO3 interface strength. A simple graphic 
procedure was used to subtract the effect of the 
generalized plastic yielding in the Ag membrane from 
the total strain energy produced by the pressure 
application. The average value of the critical interface 
crack propagation energy Gci at the porous Ag/BaTiO3 
interface ranges between 4.5 J/m2 and 6.6 J/m2 while 
the porosity decreases from 11% to 7%.  
 
Keywords: Adhesion, Ag/barium titanate interface, 
porosity, interfacial crack propagation energy  
 
 本研究探討陶瓷材料與多孔金屬材料之
間界面的接合, 此界面的強度以Blister方法量測, 
材料系統為鈦酸鋇與以網版印刷製備的多孔銀電
極, 孔隙率的高低影響界面強度, 鈦酸鋇/多孔銀
的裂縫傳遞能量從4.5 J/m2 增加至6.6 J/m2 當孔隙
率由11%減至7%.   
 
關鍵字： 鈦酸鋇/銀, 界面強度, 裂縫傳遞能量, 
孔隙率  
 
二. 緣由及目的  
 
Metal–ceramic interfaces play an important role 
in many applications, such as electronic packages, 
ceramic brazing, wear resistant coatings, thermal 
barrier coatings or micro-electromechanical systems. 
The metal/ceramic interfacial strength is an 
important parameter for all applications since it fully 
governs the integrity of the device of interest. Among 
many techniques, screen printing and sintering is a 
low cost method to make a metal film bonded to a 
ceramic substrate. It is generally used to fabricate 
multilayer ceramic capacitors (MLCC), sensors, 
device structure, etc. This technique produces a 
porous metal layer; the porosity of the metal film 
depends on the various chemical and physical 
characteristics of the metal paste and on its firing 
temperature. 
Many different methods have been proposed to 
measure the adhesion strength of the metal–oxide 
interface, either as bulk bi-material or as 
film/substrate systems [1, 2]. These methods, 
however, are very specific and often their results are 
mutually inconsistent. The blister test is one of the 
few techniques which can deliver quantitative and 
meaningful estimation on interfacial strength. It 
allows reliable quantitative interfacial fracture energy 
measurements thanks to a stable interfacial crack 
growth under a constant and well known mode 
mixity for film/substrate systems [3, 4]. For this test, 
a rigid film/substrate specimen has to be prepared 
with a free-standing film membrane covering a hole 
located at the center of the specimen. During a first 
step of the experiment, the free-standing membrane 
is pressurized by liquid injection through the hole in 
the substrate, keeping the contour of the initial 
window. This "bulge" step is reported as an 
increasing curve when plotting the pressure p vs. the 
membrane maximum deflection h. The elastic 
bulging of the membranes can be analyzed using 
various models to describe their mechanical 
equilibrium and geometry [5-10].  
When the pressure is high enough and the 
liquid injection is continued, the film starts to debond 
along the edges of the window. The outline of the 
membrane changes from its initial shape and its 
volume increases rapidly, thus causing a decrease of 
the fluid pressure and a visible change of regime on 
the p vs. h curve. For an elemental interfacial crack 
growth da, with fracture energy Gi per unit area, the 
balance between the increase of the fluid energy 
annealed microstructure, our silver layer has a low 
yield stress and rather tends to deform plastically. 
Then the strain energy developed during the blister 
test is composed of the work of elastic deformation 
and the work of plastic deformation. They have to be 
separated for adhesion measurement, since only the 
elastic strain energy is reversible and can be released 
from the pressurized membrane to cause the interface 
crack propagation. 
Experimentally, when conducting the blister test, 
hydraulic pressure is applied to make the metal layer 
blister and separate from its substrate. Then the 
pressure is released progressively and the p vs h 
curve generally falls down along a linear path and 
shows a residual deflection hp, proving that the film 
has been plastically deformed. After the first 
pressurization and de-bonding, as long as the system 
is stable we can re-inject liquid to make blistering 
occur again and then release the pressure again. 
Therefore, each repeated pressurization can be used 
to determine the adhesion energy of the interface by 
fitting an hyperbolic curve to the debonding 
threshold points according to equation (2). At each 
pressurization, since we record successive 3-D 
contours of the complete blister, we can check the 
diameter values to determine as accurately as 
possible the point when the blister begins to grow 
and the interfacial crack begins to propagate. We 
defined this point as the critical point to be used for 
Gc determination. In many cases, we can obtain 
several debonding points on one specimen till the 
metal layer is broken or totally de-bonded. Since the 
Ag membrane behaviour is dominated by residual 
stress (due to thermal contraction mismatch between 
metal and ceramic after firing) rather than by high 
Young’s modulus and stiffness, we used C = 0.516 in 
equation (2) for result analysis in this study [4,11]. 
For each re-pressurization, since the film has 
deformed plastically after previous pressurization, 
the volume underneath the new free-standing 
membrane can be related to its previous plastic 
residual deflection height hp. The total strain energy 
of the pressurized film should then be changed to  
( ) ( ) ( )!!! +==
+ h
hp
hphhp
strain dVhpdVhpdVhpU
00
 (3) 
The first term contributed by the plastic deformation 
should be extracted from the total apparent strain 
energy, to work out the elastic energy release rate 
which causes crack propagation. A very simple way 
to correct this plastic bulging of the membrane is to 
subtract the corresponding residual permanent 
deflection hpi for each quasi-linear inflation-deflation 
elastic curve N°i at a critical point for a given 
specimen, as illustrated on figure 2. The critical 
debonding points then correspond to much smaller 
values of corrected deflection (h-hpi) just as if the 
membrane had remained elastic throughout the test, 
and they are located on such hyperbolae that C.p.(h-
hpi) = G'i with much smaller and more reliable values 
of debonding energy.  
For example, figure 3 shows the blister equation 
fit to the experimental data at the de-bonding point 
for a specimen with a silver layer fired at 850°C. The 
uncorrected crack propagation energy was acquired 
as 11 J/m2, while the height being corrected as h = 
hexp - hpla, the result diminished to 4.5 J/m2. Thanks to 
this very simple procedure, we can subtract the effect 
of the generalized plastic yielding in the Ag 
membrane from the total strain energy produced by 
the pressure application.  
The resulting critical energy release rates Gci of 
the BaTiO3/Ag interfaces for each Ag paste sintering 
temperature are listed in Table 1. As explained 
before, these values are corrected by removing the 
influence of generalized plastic deformation of the 
membrane, but they still include the contribution of 
the confined plasticity which is likely to occur at the 
crack tip during the propagation of the interfacial 
crack, just like cohesive crack propagation energy in 
any ductile homogeneous metal. The values of Gci 
for specimens which are fired at 600°C, vary from 
3.5 to 5.5 J/m2. The values of Gci for interfaces with 
silver fired at 700°C vary from 3 to 6 J/m2, which is 
close to the result of 600°C. The inter-particle 
contact area for sintered powders increases while 
firing temperature increased from 600°C to 700°C, 
(Figure 1(a), 1(b)). It seems that the subsequent 
decrease of porosity does not affect much the 
interface strength at this stage. The values of Gci fired 
at 800°C vary from 3.5 to 8 J/m2, with an overall 
average value around 5.8 J/m2. At 850°C the critical 
energy release rate of interface cracks ranges from 
4.5 to 9 J/m2.  
 
3.3 Discussion 
Table 1 (not shown here) also shows the 
thicknesses of specimens fired at 600°C, 700°C and 
800°C. In same firing condition, the influence of the 
film thickness on interface strength seems to be 
smaller than the experimental dispersion of the 
energy values. Therefore, it will not be considered in 
the following discussion. 
The relation between average Gci and sintering 
temperature is shown in Figure 4. The critical energy 
release rate of interface cracks increases when firing 
temperature increases, especially in the range from 
700°C to 800°C. This may be due to the changes in 
the pore size distribution through the metal 
membrane and similarly along the interface. 
Figure 5 shows the critical energy release rate 
Gci of Ag/BaTiO3 interfaces versus the porosity of 
the Ag film. The silver paste used in this study was 
named as G-1. Within the range of membrane 
porosity from 11% to 7%, the Gci of the interface 
between porous silver membrane and BaTiO3 
substrate is almost a linear function of the porosity of 
the membrane. It is obvious that smaller contact 
Universität Bergakademie Freiberg, pp. 169-181 
(1998). 
[4] M. Dupeux and A. Bosseboeuf, in "Interfacial 
Science in Ceramic Joining", A. Bellosi et al. Edts, 
Kluwer Acad. Pub., Boston, pp. 319-327 (1998). 
[5] R.J. Hohlfelder, J.J. Vlassak, W.D. Nix, H. Luo, 
C.E.D. Chidsey, Mat. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 356 , 
pp. 585-590 (1995). 
[6] O. Tabata, K. Kawahata, S. Sugiyama and I. 
Igarashi, Sensors and Actuators, 20, pp. 135 - 141 
(1989). 
[7] M.K. Small, J.J. Vlassak, S.F. Powell, B.J. 
Daniels and W.D. Nix, Mat. Res. Soc. Symp. 
Proc., 308, pp. 159 - 164 (1993). 
[8] V.M. Paviot, J.J. Vlassak and W.D. Nix, Mat. 
Res. Soc. Symp. Proc., 356, pp. 579-584 (1995). 
[9] E. Bonnotte, P. Delobelle, L. Bornier, B. Trollard 
and G. Tribillon, J. Phys. III, 5, pp. 953 - 983 
(1995). 
[10] D. Maier-Schneider, J. Maibach and E. 
Obermeier, J. Microelectromech. Syst., 4, N°4, 
pp. 238 - 241 (1995). 
[11] R.J. Hohlfelder, H. Luo, J.J. Vlassak, C.E.D. 
Chidsey and W.D. Nix, Mat. Res. Soc. Symp. 
Proc. 436, pp. 115-120 (1997). 
[12] J. Sizemore, D.A. Stevenson and J. Stringer, 
Mat. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 308, pp. 165 - 170 
(1993). 
[13]. J. Mougin, M. Dupeux, A. Galerie, L. Antoni. 
Mater. Sci. Technol. 18 (2002) 1217-1220. 
[14] C-Y Lee, M. Dupeux, W-H Tuan, Scripta Mater., 
54 (2006), 453-457. 
[15] E. Radi, M.C. Porcu, Int. J. Solids. Structures. 
38 (2001) 8235-8258. 
[16] E. Radi, D. Bigoni, J. Mechanics. Physics. 
Solids. 44 (1996) 1475-1508. 
[17] K. Suganuma, in "Interfacial Science in Ceramic 
Joining", A. Bellosi et al. Edts, Kluwer Acad. Pub., 
Boston, pp. 249-265 (1998). 
[18] M.V. Oliveria, L.C. Pereira, C.A.A. Cairo,. Mat. 
Res. 5 (2002) 269-273. 
[19]. A.A. Volinsky, N.R. Moody, W.W. Gerberich, 
Acta Mater. 50(2002) 441-466.  
[20] E. Felder, E. Darque-Ceretti, Adhésion et 
Adhérence, CNRS Edt., Paris, 2003.  
 
七. 表格及圖形 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1, Cross-section views of Ag/BaTiO3 interfaces. 
Ag films were fired at (a) 600 oC (b) 700 oC (c) 800 
oC (d) 850 oC. 
 
第五屆中國先進陶瓷國際研討會 
(5th China International Conference on High-Performance Ceramics, CICC-5) 
 
I .  前言： 
 
中國先進陶瓷國際研討會(China International Ceramic Conference, CICC)為北京清
華大學所主辦之一系列的國際陶瓷會議, 本人曾參加第二屆,第三屆及第四屆, 此
次參加的為第五屆. 會議從5月10日開始至5月13日在長沙舉行。 
 
此次計有31個國家,計900餘個教授及學生參加，發表約1000篇論文，而上屆
計有22個國家, 約800餘個教授及學生參加，發表約900篇論文， 而上上屆則只
有約400餘個教授及學生參加，顯示此系列會議已成為世界上一個非常重要的國
際陶瓷會議.  
 
此次人數較上屆多出ㄧ百人, 但國外參與人數雖並未明顯增加, 但大陸內許多
學校及研究單位的參加人數則大幅增加, 顯示北京清華大學在舉辦國際會議上的
號召力及組織能力已大幅進步. 此次大陸除幾個重點大學及研究單位：清華大
學、天津大學、哈爾濱工業大學、浙江大學、中國科學院皆有許多人參加. 一些
較小的學校, 如技術學院等也有許多年輕教授參加.  
 
會議在長沙市區的一個新的五星級旅館舉行, 該旅館雖在會議硬體上有完整
資源, 但在國際會議經驗上仍待加強. 會議分Plenary Lecture, 口頭報告及海報展示
三類, 此次plenary Lectures 在第一天上午發表, Plenary Lecture的講者, 皆具相當高的
知名度, Plenary Lecture的講者也使出渾身解數, 內容精彩, 口頭報告分則在四個會
議室與poster展示同步舉行, 此屆會議的口頭報告只約一百篇. 海報展示則高達九
百篇, 每半天一批, 議程緊湊, 此次會議的議題如下:  
 
Session A: Dielectric, Piezoelectric and Ferroelectric Materials  
Session B: Ceramics for Fuel Cells and Batteries 
Session C: Photonics Materials and Optical Properties 
Session D: Advanced Electronic Materials  
Session E: Engineering Ceramics and Composites 
Session F: Bioceramics and Biocomposites  
Session G: Ceramic Coatings  
Session H: Glasses and Glass-Ceramics  
Session I: Ceramics in Environmental Applications  
Session J: Ceramics-Related Basic Sciences  
Session Z: Others  
 
 值得注意的是上一屆的Session I 是 Nanostructured materials and 
nanotechnology, 而此屆取消奈米的Session, 而加入環境材料, 指出環境議題的重
要性已被大陸接受, 而奈米材料已進入各領域的應用面上. 除以上十一個Session, 
大會還同時組織三個系列的國際陶瓷會議, 此三個系列的國際陶瓷會議為 
 
International symposium on ultra-high temperature ceramics 
The third international workshop on layered and graded materials 
2. 第二場由美國加州大學Santa Barbara 分校的David R. Clark 教授以”Monitoring 
temperature and damage using luminescence”為題所發表的演講, Clark 教授在grain 
boundary方面的研究非常成名, 他指出thermal barrier coating已廣泛的使用在高
溫零件上, 但高溫零件在運作時的真實溫度卻很難量測, 他們研究室深入探
討高溫螢光的發光行為, 並開發出數種高溫螢光材料, 這些高溫螢光材料位
於ZrO2-Y2O3-M2O3(M為稀土金屬元素)三元系統中, 他並指出研究室所開發出
的高溫螢光材料目前已可偵測1000C的溫度.  
 
3. 第三場由日本大阪大學的 Y. Miyamoto 教授發表, 這個演講是筆者以為本次會
議中講的最精彩的演講, 他的題目是 New ceramics development by computer-aided 
design and processing, Miyamoto教授先介紹一個他們所開發出的Micro Stereo-
Lithography System, 此系統並已由一家日本公司予以商業化並在市場上行銷, 
Miyamoto教授指出可以他們所開發出的這個系統, 進行self assembly的能力, 因
系統搭配CAD軟體, 使他們可製作出非常小, 如奈米尺度的複雜結構, 其中一
例, 筆者以數位相機照下, 請見圖二, 他再以此奈米尺度的複雜結構, 設計及
開發出許多光晶體(Photonic crystal). 他們的研究將self assembly技術應用在
photonic crystal, 充分發揮了self assembly的優勢, 並據此開發出可量產 photonic 
crystal 的方法, 他也證明以此法所得的 photonic crystal, 除具有優異性質, 並且
具有再現性.  
 
 
圖二 
 
4. 第四場由希臘 Ioannina大學的 Gournis教授發表, 他的題目是 Composites with 
carbon nano-structures: filling interlayers and nanotube, 他review目前在奈米複合材料
上的一些發展, 演講內容乏善可陳.  
 
I I I . 感想及建議 
 
北京清華大學的材料學系以一各學系的力量, 每兩年辦一次國際會議顯示
他們的企圖心及豐富的資源. 國內材料科系普遍不願意舉辦國際會議, 除資源有
限, 並須自付盈虧, 壓力很大. 建議教育部或國科會須更積極以大量資金鼓勵學
校舉辦相關活動. 大陸學生的認真及積極性一直令筆者憂心, 例如他們對從國外
來的演講者的演講所投入的熱情及積極, 令人擔心國內研究生的好逸惡勞, 以後
將如何面對來自對岸的競爭. 國內研究生也不喜歡聽演講, 這也將造成我們在舉
辦國際會議時, 所必須承擔太少聽眾及冷場的風險.  
國際合作研究計畫心得報告書 
暨 
赴法國Joseph Four ier大學參加雙聯博士學位口試  
回國報告 
 
段維新 
材料科學及工程學系 
96年8月1日 
 
一. 背景說明 
 
在 NSC-CNRS 雙邊協議下, 報告人接受兩年國科會的支持, 執行與法國 
Joseph Fourier大學Michel Depeux教授一起合作的研究計畫, 同時本校與位於法國
Grenoble的 Joseph Fourier大學亦訂有雙聯博士學位合約, 本系李炤佑同學繼取得本
校及Joseph Fourier-Grenoble大學的雙碩士學位後, 參與本校與Joseph Fourier大學的雙
聯博士學制, 並訂下合約, 依此合約, 李炤佑同學前兩年(July, 2003-August, 2005)在
本校材料科學及工程學研究所進行研究, 後兩年(July, 2005-August, 2007)則在Joseph 
Fourier-Grenoble大學的機械系進行研究. 研究題目為: 金屬/陶瓷界面工程介電陶瓷
與金屬電極之接著強度研究(Metal/ceramic interface engineering – adhesion strength 
measurement between dielectric ceramic and electrode metals). 
 
 執行此雙聯博士學位合約, 本校材料科學及工程學系的研究指導教授為本
人, Joseph Fourier-Grenoble大學的研究指導教授則為機械系的Michel Depeux教授. 李
炤佑同學先在本系準備試樣, 然後在Joseph Fourier-Grenoble大學的機械系進行界面
分析及測試, 故本研究為一實質合作研究. 且一起發表研究成果:  
 
1. Chao-Yu Lee, Michel Dupeux, Wei-Hsing Tuan, “Adhesion strength of Ag/BaTiO3 
interface”, Scripta Mater., 54(3), 453-457 (2006) (SCI impact factor: 2.112).  
2. Chao-Yu Lee, Michel Dupeux, Wei-Hsing Tuan, “Influence of firing temperature on 
interface adhesion between screen-printed Ag film and BaTiO3 substrate”, Materials 
Science & Engineering A 467, 125-131 (2007) (SCI impact factor: 1.445).  
 
經費方面, 本計畫的出國經費主要提供給李炤佑同學回國準備試樣及參加本
校之預口試(proposal examination), 以達到本系對博士學位的要求.  
 
 李炤佑同學在克服法國的生活及語言的困難後, 陸續克服研究上的困難, 
於今年一月申請本系的Proposal考試, 並且通過, 再於今年四月向Joseph Fourier-
Grenoble大學提出博士學位考試申請, 在先經過兩位校外教授(一位教授為比利時
魯文大學的Pordoen教授, 一位教授為成功大學的黃肇瑞教授)審查通過後, 訂下於
今年7月16日於Grenoble的 Joseph Fourier大學進行口試,  
 
二. 口試過程  
 
 口試委員計有七位:  
