 I
 
室溫多鐵體材料 BiFeO3 用於雙位元數位存儲器的可行性研究 
(計畫編號 NSC 95-2218-E-006-051-) 
 
中文摘要 
 
這個為期九個月的新進教師計劃是要探討將複鐵式(multiferroic)材料BiFeO3應用於雙位元
數位存儲器的可行性. 具體的實驗是要驗證是否存在著一種合適的薄膜生長方法和條件, 
在此條件下生長的BiFeO3薄膜同時俱有最佳的鐵電和反鐵磁(或鐵磁)特性. 這是BiFeO3的
複鐵雙重特性是否可以在同一樣品顯現的關鍵. 至今我們已經對BiFeO3薄膜的磁控濺鍍法
和溶膠凝膠法做了較詳細的研究. 在磁控濺鍍法中, 我們研究了靶材成份, 生長溫度, 氧分
壓以及其他生長參數對所得薄膜結構的影響. 我們也嘗試了幾種不同的溶膠凝膠法. 通過
改變前驅物, 溶劑, 絡合劑和介面活性劑等來尋找最佳的溶膠. 因而可使鍍膜變得容易, 生
長出來的薄膜具有單一的BiFeO3相. 我們已成功地把BiFeO3薄膜長在幾種不同的基板上, 
其中包括SrTiO3, LaAlO3, Si單晶體以及石英玻璃等. 長在Si單晶以及石英玻璃上的薄膜是
單一的BiFeO3相, 但是沒有明顯的擇優取向. 長在(001) SrTiO3 和(001) LaAlO3 基板上的
薄膜不但是很純的BiFeO3, 而且只有一個單一的方向. X-ray θ-2θ和φ掃描證實BiFeO3在
SrTiO3和LaAlO3基板上是磊晶生長. 其φ和ω掃描的半峰寬(FWHM)分別是 1.7 度和 1.0 度. 
長在(001) SrTiO3基板上 140 nm厚的BiFeO3薄膜, 其晶胞參數略小於(0.1%)正常的BiFeO3
單晶體. 但是長在(001) LaAlO3基板上 40 nm厚的薄膜, 其C軸縮短有 2.4%之多. 這種樣品
非常適合用於研究磊晶生長引發的結構畸變對鐵電和鐵磁性能的影響. 但是, 由於我們可
以使用的物性測量儀器有限, 加之本計劃的時間較短, 這些非常有趣的實驗還未來得及做. 
除了以上這些實驗成果外, 本計劃還培訓了三位碩一新生. 他們現在每人都可以獨立進行
磊晶薄膜生長以及做相關的結構測量. 原計劃書上所列的實驗已大部分完成. 但是BiFeO3
是否可用於制作雙位元數位存儲器, 還需更多的實驗, 特別是要對已生長的樣品做詳細的
測試後, 才能給一個更明確的回答. 鑒於本計劃的時間以及新進教師的儀器設備限制, 以
上所取得的成果是值得認可的. 
 1
1. INTRODUCTION 
Multiferroic materials possess at least two of the following properties of ferroelectric, 
(anti-)ferromagnetic, piezoelectric, ferroelastic, etc. This is a new class of multifunctional 
materials, which has a great potential for the fabrication of next-generation devices with 
higher degree of integration and more advanced functionalities. Multiferroic materials are 
rare in nature because the conditions for being simultaneously ferroelectric and 
(anti-)ferromagnetic do not usually compromise each other [1]. More difficult to obtain are 
the multiferroic materials with both ferroelectric and (anti-)ferromagnetic transition points 
above room temperature. For most of the currently known multiferroic materials, the 
ferroelectric Curie temperature is considerably higher than the magnetic ordering 
temperature and the latter is usually below room temperature. One of the exceptions is 
BiFeO3 (BFO), which becomes ferroelectric below 770 °C and antiferromagnetic below 
374 °C [2,3]. This makes it of particular interest for the practical applications. However, 
bulk BFO has a rather poor ferroelectric property [4]. In contrast, thin film samples show a 
much better property with an order of magnitude increase in the remanent electric 
polarization [5]. As for the magnetic property of BFO films, it seems now quite conclusive 
that BFO is a canted antiferromagnet rather than the initially suggested that it had turned 
into a ferromagnet [5]. Recently, exchange bias has been achieved for a few ferromagnets 
with the BFO films as the antiferromagnetic base [6,7]. This not only confirmed the 
antiferromagnetic nature of the BFO thin films, but also raised the potential for BFO to be 
used in practical devices such as spin valves. Recently, there has been a greatly increased 
interest worldwide in this material. 
 
2. OBJECTIVE 
Previous studies on the ferroelectric properties and magnetic properties of BFO have been 
separated. Film growth performed in different research groups has been aimed to improve 
either the ferroelectric or magnetic properties, but not both of them. From the previous 
research carried out by the principal investigator of this project, it was found that the best 
film growth condition already knew to obtain high-resistance films was not necessarily the 
best condition to obtain the most smooth surface of BFO films, which is one of the 
important factors to achieve large exchange bias. For instance, BFO films grown at 600 °C 
in 5 mTorr pO2 showed a very low resistance and a large Pr of 55 µC/cm2, but the surface 
of such films was not very smooth with the rsm roughness of about 10 nm [6], which is not 
ideal for exchange bias. If the films were grown at 670 °C 100 mTorr, the surface were 
very smooth with typical roughness less than 1 nm; but the resistance of such films was 
much lower and as a consequence, large leakage current was observed [8]. Therefore, there 
is an urgent need to find out a film growth condition that can optimize both properties. 
This is essential to the realization of multifunctionality. 
 
Therefore, the current project attempts to identify a universal film condition that can be 
used to grow both electrically and magnetically optimized films. 
 
the purity of  98% and 99%, respectively. The bismuth nitrate pentahydrate was first 
dissolved in the acetic acid and then mixed with the iron nitrate enneahydrate, which was 
earlier dissolved in ethanol (>99%). The remainder of the procedure was similar to that in 
the first route. The final solution contained a higher concentration of metal ions, which was 
about 0.2 M. Because the solution prepared in the second route had a higher concentration 
while its viscosity was still suitable for coating, it was used for the most of the sol-gel 
grown films discussed in the following sections.   
 
The coating of the gel solution on the substrates was made by fast spinning at 3000-4000 
rpm. After each coating, the sample was dried on the two hot plates set at 80 °C and 200 
°C, respectively. The process was repeated for 3-5 times depending on the desired 
thickness of the film. Finally, the sample was sintered at temperatures between 450-650 °C 
for 2-4 hours. 
 
4. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
The grown films were characterized by the x-ray diffraction (XRD), step profilometry 
atomic force microscopy (AFM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Showed in 
Fig.1 are the XRD θ-2θ scans for the films grown on the (001) STO and LAO substrates 
by the RF sputtering and sol-gel methods, respectively. The diffraction intensity in the 
graphs is plotted in the logarithmic scale in order to signify weak peaks. As we can see, no 
other reflections are observed except for the (00l) peaks of BFO and those coming from 
the STO or LAO substrates, indicating that under the optimized growth conditions, 
pure-phase well-textured films were grown by both RF sputtering and sol-gel methods. 
Representative graphs of the ω-scans and φ-scans for the films are shown in Fig.2. The 
ω-scans (rocking curves) revealed a good out-of-plane alignment, with the full width at 
half maximum (FWHM) of about 1.0°. The φ-scans from 0° to 180° observed only three 
peaks, which were 90° apart from each other, confirming that the films were not only very 
well aligned in the c-axis, but also along the a-axis and b-axis. Therefore, the films were 
grown epitaxially. FWHM for the φ-scan was 1.7°. 
 
Fig.1 XRD θ-2θ scans for the films grown on: (a) (001) STO substrate, (b) (001) LAO substrate. 
 3
 5
5. ONCLUDING REMARKS 
T as been studied in detail by the RF sputtering and sol-gel 
which was in the order of 10 nm. The surface morphology was largely influenced by the 
final sintering temperatures, as shown by the SEM images in Fig.5. The thickness of the 
sol-gel films was depended on the layers of spin coatings and each coating was estimated 
to give a thickness of about 15-20 nm. The particular BFO/LAO film for XRD in Fig.1 had 
an approximate thickness of about 40 nm.   
 
C
he growth of BFO thin films h
methods. In the case of RF sputtering, the target compositions, growth temperatures, 
oxygen partial pressures, and other growth parameters were investigated to find the 
optimum growth conditions. A number of sol-gel routes with different precursors, solvents, 
complexation agents and surfactants have been tried in order to find a suitable solution for 
the easy coating and formation of pure BFO. Thin films have been grown on a range of 
120 min60 min
30 min
(d)(c) 
(b)
(a) 
Fig.4 Film thickness, surface roughness and surface morphology as a function of growth time for the 
BFO films grown on (001) Si substrates.   
(b)(a)
Fig.5 SEM images of BFO films grown on (111) Si by sol-gel. Sintered for 2hr at (a) 550 °C (b) 600 °C. 
