2behavior of PBSU/starch blends, the melting temperature (Tm) was
determined by the differential scanning calorimetry. As seen in
Figure 2, the melting temperature decreased slightly from 113.9°C
to 110.9°C, for the blend containing 20% starch. The blend
containing 40% starch gave a further decrease in melting
temperature at 109°C (not shown here for brevity). Apparently, the
added starch tends to disrupt the inter-molecular hydrogen bonding
within the PBSU matrix, which causes the entropy of mixing to
increase. This increase reduces the melting temperature for
thermodynamic reasons. Previous examinations of X-ray analysis
also indicate disruption of some crystal domains of PBSU. On the
other hand, with the addition of compatibilizer (HDPE-g-AA),
better mixing is achieved, which changes the enthalpy of mixing.
This change appears to be similar to the change in the entropy of
mixing, which accounts for the similar order of melting
temperature (Tm1, 111.4°C) for the blends with or without a
compatibilizer. A small melting peak (Tm2, 127.0 °C) and a
crystallization peak (Tc2, 117.1°C) for the compatibilizer were
observed, Figure 2(c). As for the crystallization temperature of the
blends, a corresponding decrease was also found.
Tensile test
Figure 3 shows the effect of the starch content on tensile
strength of blends. When the starch content increased, tensile
strength of the blends generally decreased, in agreement with Park
et al. [6]. For PBSU blended with starch, tensile strength
progressively decreased from 26.3 ± 1.0 MPa to 13.8 ± 1.0 MPa.
When the compatibilizer was incorporated, it improved the mixing
of PBSU and starch, as observed by an average increment of about
16% in tensile strength.
Tear test
To signify the importance of gelatinization on the mechanical
properties of PBSU (Bionolle)/starch blend, tear test to measure
fracture energy (tear strength) was carried out. Figure 4 depicts
the effect of gelatinzation starch content on tear strength of the
blends. As seen in tensile properties, tear strength progressively
decreases with increasing starch content. For Bionolle blended
with untreated starch, tear strength decreases from 16.5± 0.3 to
13.0± 0.4 KJ/m2. As untreated starch (Bionolle/CS) was replaced
with gelatinization starch in the blend, tear strength increases up to
1.5 times. Apparently, the gelatinization of starch is of benefit to
improve strength of the blend, which is attributed to a better mixing
and high interaction for the blend. However, one also has to
notice that higher glycerol content would adversely decrease the
tear strength of the blends due to a plasticizing effect mentioned
earlier. This is manifested in the blend of Bionolle/CSG17 (17%
glycerine).
Biodegradability
Typical optical photomicrographs of PBSU/starch blends,
taken after various periods in a soil test, are shown in Figures 5.
Figure 5 illustrates the surface behavior of PBSU after various
burial periods. Virtually no difference was observed with treatment
time, probably because of the hydrophobic character of PBSU that
limits the degree of the material degradation.
To further assess the biodegradability of PBSU/starch blends,
the samples were buried in a conditioned soil environment and the
weight loss due to microorganisms attack was recorded. The results
for blends with or without compatibilization are depicted in Figure
6. PBSU, with or without compatibilizer, was quite stable in this
short term of investigation, with no significant effect when it was
present. On the other hand, an intensive biodegradation was found
for blends containing starch, with a profound increase in the weight
loss for blends containing 40% of starch, reaching up to 41% for
blends without compatibilizer. When the treatment period increased,
the values of the weight loss increased, meaning that starch, a
natural polymer, could be readily used as a carbon source by the
microorganisms. This would cause a measurable amount of weight
loss in the treatment period. In addition, the slight difference in
weight loss observed for blends, with or without compatibilizer,
indicated an enhanced interaction between PBSU and starch due to
the presence of compatibilizer.
CONCLUSIONS
The properties of polybutylene succinate (PBSU)/starch
blends containing 5 phr of compatibilizer, HDPE-g-acrylic acid,
have been discussed. X-ray diffractograms indicated some
disruption of the crystallography of PBSU with the addition of
starch. The melting temperature decreased slightly with higher
dosages of starch, due to the added starch, which tended to disrupt
the inter-molecular hydrogen bonding within the PBSU matrix. On
the other hand, the presence of the compatibilizer helped to
improve the thermal properties and tensile strength. The
gelatinization of the starch significantly improved the mechanical
properties; however, interaction was still limited using this type of
compatibilizer. Surface erosion shown in optical micrographs
indicated a visible growth of microorganisms, particularly at high
concentrations of starch. The assessment of biodegradability
indicated an increasing weight loss with longer treatment periods
and higher starch contents.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Partial grants-in-aid from R.O.C. government (Contract
number of NSC 94-2216-E-197 -001) are gratefully acknowledged.
Some experiments carried out by M.-I. Chen and D.-Y. Lin, C.-K.
Huang are also appreciated.
REFERENCES
1. D.–K. Kweon, D.-S. Park, H.–J. Cha, and S.–T. Lim, J. Appl.
Polym. Sci., 78, (2000), 986
2. R.L.Whistler, J.N. Bemiller, and E.F. Paschall, editors. Starch:
Chemistry and Technology, 2nd Edition; San Diego: Academic
Press, 1984.
3. G.J.L. Griffin, ACS Advances in Chemistry, 1975; Series No.
134.
4. F. Wittwer, and I. Tomka, U. S. Patent 4 673 438 (1987).
