 2
晶片通訊小衛兵：系統晶片之可調式容錯型晶片網路架構 
 
ChipOCBGuard: An Adaptive Fault-Tolerant Network-on-Chip 
Framework for System-on-Chips 
 
計畫編號：NSC96－2221－E－035－111 
執行期間：96年8月1日 ～ 97年7月31日 
計畫主持人：張貴忠  逢甲大學資訊工程系助理教授 
 
 
計畫摘要 
在單晶片系統的發展環境中，完整系統
的組成需由負責不同功能的模組區塊來構
成。現今之整合技術多傾向採用匯流排(On-
Chip Bus)的設計，例如ARM limited 提出的
AMBA 協定。然匯流排的設計除了必須兼顧高
效率、低耗能、與節省面積等議題之外，另
一個越來越嚴重的問題亟待解決 - 那就是防
止通訊干擾與延遲的發生。本計畫希望研究
一個架構來減輕因為製程技術提升與高速運
算所造成的On-Chip Bus 上的 Crosstalk 
noise 與 Crosstalk delay 所引發的錯誤，
如此除了可以提高通訊效率與速度之外，也
可以因為不需大量錯誤處理與資料重送來使
的整體On-Chip Bus 的電源功率降低。 
本計畫執行內容涵蓋低功率與低錯誤率
的互連拓樸架構的設計、低功率與低錯誤率
的資料傳輸編碼技術、與可調式元件的設
計，這些設計皆有經過高階C++模型與低階
RTL模型的模擬與評估，結果驗證此計畫之設
計能有效降低功率與錯誤發生的機率與提升
系統效能。 
本計畫研究成果，總計發表了1篇期刊
論文(全文)[P1]、2篇會議論文[P2,P3]。 
. 
ABSTRACT 
As technology scaling enables the integration 
of billions of transistors on a chip, economies of 
scale are prompting the move toward parallel 
chip architectures with application-specific 
systems-on-a-chip (SoC) leveraging multiple 
processing cores on a single chip for better 
performance at manageable design costs. 
However, in high-performance chip design, the 
significant design challenge is to fulfill the 
requirements of the circuit noise elimination, 
since the faults will slow down the performance 
and dissipate much power of the overall system. 
We want to design a framework for reliable 
NOCs to mitigate this problem. 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Shrinking geometries, increasing die sizes, 
increasing interconnect density, and faster clock 
rates, scaled-down voltages, and higher 
frequencies have negative impacts on reliability 
and increase the failure rate. Global system-on-
chip buses suffer from three major problems 
including large propagation delay due to 
capacitive crosstalk [F1-F4], high power 
consumption due to both parasitic and coupling 
capacitance [F5-F6], and increased 
susceptibility to errors due to deepsubmicron 
(DSM) noise [F7]. Thus, design for reliability 
has become important to achieve the optimal 
fault immunity and to maximize the cost 
reduction per function [F8].  
Recently, it has been proposed to connect 
cores using a network-on-chip (NOC) 
architecture [F9-F11]. In a NOC architecture, 
the end-to-end communication between 
nonadjacent routers will have to be implemented 
by a set of high-level protocols. Long 
interconnect tremendously increase the rate of 
errors due essentially to crosstalk and single-
event upsets. In the NOC, we can provide 
mechanisms to detect and possibly correct errors 
as soon as it appears in nearest switch. 
Conversely, if error detection/correction is 
demanded to the receivers only, a more complex 
 4
proposed in [F7] as a way to achieve energy 
efficiency in I/O signaling in the presence of 
DSM noise. 
The error detection codes are classified in 
two types [F12]. The first one is end-to-end, and 
another one if router-to-router. In the end-to-end 
fault detection schemes, error detection codes 
are added to the data packets. The encoder and 
the decoder have to be designed into the sender 
and receiver to process the outgoing/incoming 
packets, respectively. In the router-to-router 
error detection scheme, error detection hardware 
is provided at each router input and data is 
transmitted between adjacent routers whenever 
an error is detected. The costs of buffers 
required to implement the scheme depends on 
whether the retransmission occurs at the packet 
or flit level. If an error is detected at the router 
input, it must have occurred on the link that 
connects the two routers, and we can retransmit 
the packets from the previous routers. 
Ayoub [F1] proposed a coding scheme for 
general-purpose applications that can reduce 
power dissipation, crosstalk noise and crosstalk 
delay on the bus lines while simultaneously 
detecting errors at runtime. They used four data 
bits with one redundant bit for crosstalk 
avoidance coding, and it also used one 
additional shielding line every ten bits. After 
encoding, the transmission errors induced by 3-
bit adjacent transitions (llHl) will be 
eliminated. However, errors induced by 
coupling transitions (ex. ↑↓), 3-aggressor(ex. 
↓↓H↓, ↑↑L↑) and 2-aggressor(ex. ↓H↓, 
↑ L ↑ ) still exist, and it cannot completely 
eliminate the probabilities of the occurrence of 
crosstalk noise. The ↑  means the signal 
switched from low to high; the ↓ means the 
signal switched from high to low; the “l” means 
either ↑ or↓; the “H” means the steady high 
signal; the “L” means the steady low signal.  
We summarize the possible transition 
patterns that are most likely to produce crosstalk 
delay and noise in Table I. In the case of three 
lines, the crosstalk noise worst cases could 
occur either when the signal on the victim line is 
steady high and the signals on the aggressors 
(adjacent active lines) switch from high to low 
or when the signal on the victim line is steady 
low and the signals on the neighboring lines are 
switched from low to high [F1]. The crosstalk 
delay worst cases could occur when the three 
lines switch simultaneously with the center line 
switching in a direction opposite to its neighbors, 
which maximizes the crosstalk delay as well. In 
the case of two lines, the crosstalk delay worst 
cases occur when the signal on adjacent lines 
switch with opposite directions. From the 
experimental results in [F1] we can find that the 
numbers of 2-bit adjacent transitions (ll), 2-
aggressor transitions and 3-aggressor transitions 
are still large. 
 
TABLE I 
TRANSITION CASES OF CROSSTALK DELAY AND NOISE. 
 
 
Based on above reservations, we propose a 
coding scheme to mitigate the effects of 
crosstalk delay noise, and it can significantly 
reduce prohibited patterns that are most likely to 
produce crosstalk delay and noise. It can reduce 
the number of 2-bit adjacent transitions and 2-
aggressor transitions, and it can completely 
eliminate 3-aggressor transitions and 3-bit 
adjacent transitions which are most likely to 
induce crosstalk delay and noise. In addition, we 
design a fault detection mechanism based on the 
coding scheme to provide router-to-router 
detection of faults at the input of a router. It can 
detect faults as early as possible to save energy 
in NoCs. 
 
4. APPROACHE 
4.1. Low-Power and Low-Fault Network-on-
Chip Topology Construction [P1] 
 
4.1.1 NoC Design Flow 
 
The NoC is a structured interconnection 
architecture such that it can be integrated into a 
 6
transitions (ll, lll). The basic idea of the 
proposed encoding scheme is to eliminate 
prohibited patterns for adjacent transitions on 
bus lines by encoding them to safe code-words. 
It reduces adjacent transitions by observing the 
previous transmitted pattern. It detects 
transitions before transmitting the data, and the 
data will be encoded by bus-invert encoding [17] 
when any two adjacent transitions occur 
simultaneously. Fig. 4 shows the algorithms of 
the proposed crosstalk avoidance encoding 
scheme in a sub-bus. There is no 3-bit adjacent 
transition in transition patterns, and it not only 
can fully eliminate the Case I (worst) of the 
crosstalk delay but also can mitigate other cases 
inducing of crosstalk noise and delay described 
in Table I. The possibility of the occurrence of 
prohibited transitions is eliminated within the 
subgroups. In the proposed encoding scheme the 
switching pattern 1100 will be encoded as 00111 
by default, and we can find that the encoded 
result could induce more adjacent transitions 
than that of the uncoded pattern. In the special 
case, we do not invert the code to prevent this 
bad case. 
 
4.2.2 Fault Detection in Router 
 
The proposed encoding mechanism is based 
on predefined transition patterns as shown in Fig. 
4. Errors happen if the received signal is one of 
the infeasible transition compositions. We can 
embed the detection logic into each router 
shown as Fig. 5(a). Fig. 5(b) shows the detection 
logic based on the proposed coding method. In 
the proposed coding method it is infeasible 
occurring adjacent transitions for lines ci;1, ci;2, 
and ci;3. In the error detection logic one 2-input 
OR gate and two 2-input AND gates are used for 
each sub-bus in the input data to detect the 
occurrence of prohibited transitions. Fig. 6 
shows the 32-bit fault detection block, and it 
uses one OR gate to response the error when any 
sub-bus detects an error. 
The flow of the fault detection mechanism is 
shown as Fig. 7. The detection logic will check 
whether the signal transition is feasible when 
they propagate through the router. If no error 
exists the data will be put into the buffer, and 
then the routing component will decode the data 
and route it to the right way. When an error is 
detected the detecting logic will feedback a 
retransmission signal to the previous router or 
the sender, scheduling a retransmission. To this 
purpose, an additional retransmission control 
line can be used. 
 
 
Fig. 4： The proposed encoding and decoding 
algorithms 
 
 
Fig. 5：The fault detection structure in a switch. 
 
 8
5.1 Results for Topology Construction 
 
Fig. 9 shows the power savings of multimedia 
applications, including MPEG-4 decoder, VOPD, 
MWD, JPEG decoder (DJPEG) and JPEG 
encoder the high communicative cores into 
different CCBs; the average case represents that 
we construct several random cases and average 
the power consumption; the optimal case 
represents the optimal topology by handheld 
mapping. We can observe that the power saving 
ratio of the interconnection architecture 
approximates from 31% to 49%. The proposed 
power-aware mapping algorithm can obtain 
topologies approximated to the optimal mapping 
when the application communication traffic is 
highly localised. Because the traffic of VOPD is 
more localised than that of MWD the result 
mapping of VOPD is more optimal than that of 
MWD, and the power consumption of VOPD is 
approximated to that of the optimal mapping. 
From the experiments we can find that some 
results of the proposed PATC algorithm are as 
good as that of the optimum, and some results 
are very close to that of the optimum because 
the traffic is more distributed as the proposed 
algorithm cannot precisely cluster right groups 
of cores together. 
 
 
Fig. 9：Power savings of applications for 
different mapping strategies 
 
5.2 Results for Bus Encoding 
 
The first experiment simulates the counts of 
self and coupling transitions. From Equation we 
know that the power consumption of 
transmitting data is proportional to the self 
transitions and the coupling transitions. If we 
want to save power consumption we have to 
reduce both self and coupling transitions. Table 
II shows the reduction ratio of the self 
transitions of all experimented schemes 
compared with uncoded scheme. From the 
experimental results we can find that the self 
transitions of the proposed method are smaller 
than that of other approaches for most 
workloads. Some transition results of the unified 
method are larger than that of uncoded method; 
this is because that the unified method uses the 
transition codebook to map the transferred data 
to a specific transition codeword, and some 
unchanged data have to be mapped to coded 
transitions, which will consume more power. 
 
TABLE II: REDUCTION RATIO OF SELF TRANSITIONS WITH 
32-BIT BUS WIDTH COMPARED TO UNCODED SCHEME 
 
 
Fig. 10 shows the power consumption ratio of 
fault detection compared to uncoded method in 
the NOC with different fault probabilities. The 
fault probability on the x-axis represents the 
probability of failure for the prohibited patterns 
causing crosstalk fault and delay. The “GAISE.” 
means the proposed coding scheme without 
applying detection components in routers, and 
the “GAISE detection” means the proposed 
coding scheme with applying detection 
components in routers to early detect faults 
between routers. From the figure we can find 
that when the probability is large, the power 
savings of all coding schemes will increase 
because the combinations of prohibit patterns 
which could generate faults are reduced. 
Specifically, the power saving will significantly 
increase for .GAISE detection. When the fault 
probability increase because more faults can be 
detected and stopped early by the detection 
module. In this way, the power of retransmission 
between the sender and the receivers caused by 
crosstalk noise and delay can be saved. 
 
 10
mtcmos with bus encoding for total power 
and crosstalk minimization. In Proceedings 
of the International Conference on Quality 
of Electronic Design, pages 88.93, March 
2005. 
[F4] Chun-Gi Lyuh and Taewhan Kim. Low 
power bus encoding with crosstalk delay 
elimination. In Proceedings of the 
International Conference on ASIC/SOC, 
pages 25.28, September 2002. 
[F5] Yazdan Aghaghiri, Farzan Fallah, and 
Massoud Pedram. Transition reduction in 
memory buses using sector-based encoding 
techniques. IEEE Transaction on Computer-
Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and 
Systems, 23(8):1164.1174, August 2004. 
[F6] Lin Xic, Peiliang Qiu, and Qinru Qiu. 
Partitioned bus coding for energy reduction. 
In Proceedings of the Asia and South 
Design Automation Conference, pages 
1280.1283, 2005. 
[F7] R. Hegde and N. R. Shanbhag. Toward 
achieving energy ef_cient in the presence of 
deep submicron noise. IEEE Transaction on 
Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) 
Systems, 8(4):379.391, Augest 2000. 
[F8] Jeong-Taek Kong. Cad for nanometer 
silicon design challenges and sucess. IEEE 
Transaction on Very Large Scale 
Integration (VLSI) Systems, 
12(11):1132.1147, November 2004. 
[F9] Neal K. Bambha and Shuvra S. 
Bhattacharyya. Joint application 
mapping/interconnect synthesis techniques 
for embedded chip-scale multiprocessors. 
IEEE Transaction on Parallel and 
Distributed Systems, 16(2):99.112, 
February 2005. 
[F10] Davide Bertozzi, Antoine Jalabert, 
Srinivasan Murali, Rutuparna Tamhankar, 
Stergios Stergio, Luca Benini, and Giovanni 
De Micheli. NoC synthesis _ow for 
customized domain speci_c multiprocessor 
systems-on-chip. IEEE Transaction on 
Parallel and Distributed Systems, 
16(2):113.129, February 2005. 
[F11] Kuei-Chung Chang, Jih-Sheng Shen, and 
Tien-Fu Chen. A low-power crossroad 
switch architecture and its core placement 
for network-on-chip. In Proceedings of the 
International Symposium on Low Power 
Electronics and Design (ISLPED 2005), 
pages 375.380, August 2005. 
[F12] Murali S., G. De Micheli, L. Benini, and 
T. Theocharides. Analysis of error recovery 
schemes for networks on chips. IEEE 
Design & Test of Computers, 22(5):434.442, 
2005. 
[F13] S. Ramprasad, N. R. Shanbhag, and I. N. 
Hajj. A coding framework for low-power 
address and data buses. IEEE Transaction 
on Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) 
Systems, 7(2):212.221, June 1999. 
[F14] Y. Zhang, J. Lach, K. Skadron, and M. R. 
Stan. Odd/even bus invert with two-phase 
transfer for buses with coupling. In 
Proceedings of the International 
Symposium on Low Power Electronics and 
Design (ISLPED 2002), pages 80.83, 2002. 
 
8. PUBLICATIONS 
 
[P1] Kuei-Chung Chang and Tien-Fu Chen, "A 
Low-Power Algorithm for Automatic 
Topology Generation for Application-
Specific NoCs," IET proceedings - 
Computer & Digital, 2/3, pp. 239-249, May 
2008. (SCI) 
[P2] Jih-Sheng Shen, Pao-Ann Hsiung, and 
Kuei-Chung Chang, "A Novel Spatio-
Temporal Adaptive Bus Encoding for 
Reducing Crosstalk Interferences with 
Trade-Offs Between Performance and 
Reliability," Proceedings of The Thirteenth 
IEEE Asia-Pacific Computer Systems 
Architecture Conference (ACSAC 2008), 
pp. 1-8, Aug. 2008. Hsinchu, Taiwan. 
[P3] Kuei-Chung Chang, "Crosstalk Avoidance 
Coding and Detection for Network-on-
Chip," Proceedings of The 5th IEEE 
International Conference on Information 
Technology and Applications, pp. 624-629, 
Jun. 2008. Australia. 
三、建 議 
 
由於此會議是綜合性的 IT 研討會，其論文被接受的機率還不算很低，因此此
會議所發表之論文品質或許不是頂尖的品質，但是別把自己關在象牙塔中，能夠每
年定期參與國際會議，並與非自己領域的專家學者交流是很必要的，可以藉此延伸
自己研究應用的觸角。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1. 會議議程 
2. 會議論文集（光碟） 
 
五、其    他 
 
發表論文議程： 
 
 
 
發表論文摘要： 
 
 NOC architectures have to deliver good latency throughput performance in the 
face of very tight power and area budgets. However, in high-performance chip 
design, the significant design challenge is to fulfill the requirements of the circuit 
noise elimination, since the faults will slow down the performance and dissipate 
much power of the overall system. This paper presents a simple coding scheme for 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC96-2221-E-035-111 
計畫名稱 晶片通訊小衛兵：系統晶片之可調式容錯型晶片網路架構 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
張貴忠助理教授  逢甲大學資工系 
會議時間地點 23 - 26 June 2008 澳洲 
會議名稱 IEEE International Conference on Information Technology and Applications (ICITA 2008) 
發表論文題目 Early Fault Avoidance and Detection Techniques for Network-on-Chips 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
於台灣時間六月二十一日下午出發前往澳洲，於澳洲時間六月二十二號抵達並
下榻飯店。利用幾天時間熟悉一下當地的環境。在六月二十三日報到完畢之後便參
加會議的四天議程。六月二十六號上午參加與Session Chair的早餐會之後，便於當
天早上發表本篇論文，過程算是順利。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
本會議是我第一次參與，由於以往都是參與IC設計相關的研討會，發表領域比
較專業，與會人員也都是這個領域熟識的專業人員，因此討論的話題都比較偏向硬
體電路設計相關。自己第一次在這種會議發表論文，由論文議程中可以很明顯看出，
IC設計的論文題目明顯較少。 
 
此會議由於是IT領域比較綜合性的會議性質，因此，參與會議的人員琳瑯滿目，
有包含資工、資管、電子電機、商管科系的專業人員，因此發表的論文題目也比較
沒有偏向硬體晶片設計，雖然專業領域比較發散，但是相對的來說也比較能夠對於
異質領域整合有一個綜合性的概念，能夠讓自己在未來研究方向上提供一個比較寬
廣的參考依據。例如：自己往後的研究方向可以朝著智慧型演算法的方向經營，以
製做出可以支援智慧型演算法的硬體為往後的設計目標，如此以來，便可以將自己
在 IC 設計這一塊技術領域應用到未來有發展的方向。 
 
