 2
全自動微流體細胞培養晶片的研發 
(Development of Automatic Microfluidic Cell Culture Chip) 
計畫編號：NSC－98－2221－E－214－039 
執行期間： 98 年 08 月 01 日至 99 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：林志龍  執行機構及單位名稱:義守大學機械與自動化工程學系 
 
中文摘要 
本研究將以微機電製程製作一個新型的連續式細
胞培養平台，此系統包含幫浦、閥門、混合器、加熱器、
溫度感測器、培養區、和儲液槽。設計微流道的主動式
止回閥也企圖用來將培養液或藥品，以低流速和均勻流
傳輸到培養區，降低連續式產生的剪應力，以避免破壞
培養細胞。同時，傳輸系統不僅有效傳輸培養液，同時
減少管道間液體交互汙染的問題。此外，混合器設計不
僅產生混合效率以降低化學梯度，同時用來使溫度均一
性以降低溫度梯度。另外，本研究也利用商業化網印製
程，在ITO 玻璃上製作加熱器，ITO 不僅具有高穿透率
同時也有低導電率，可以得到加熱細胞培養區與高解析
度觀測之目的。總之，此新型連續式平台將提供一個安
全、穩定、全自動細胞培養平台，並具有高解析度觀測
功能。這個新型連續式自動細胞平台，將會成為藥物檢
測和疾病偵測強而有力工具。 
關鍵字：微機電系統、微流體、連續式細胞培養、網印 
ABSTRACT 
In this study, we will develop a new continuous cell 
culture platform by using micro-electro-mechanical-systems 
(MEMS) technologies. The cell culture system is comprised 
of pumps, valves, a mixer, heaters, a temperature sensor, a 
cell culture area and several reservoirs on a chip. The design 
of microchannel with active check valves will be intended to 
achieve a lower as well as a uniform flow to avoid a sharper 
shear stress to damage the culturing cells. Meanwhile, the 
delivery system can efficiently delivery liquids and lower 
the chances of inter-contamination. Additionally, the mixer 
was designed to not only perform a mixing effect to reduce 
the chemical gradient, but also to exhibit a thermal 
uniformity to decrease the temperature gradient. In the study, 
microheaters will be fabricated by ITO glass by using the 
commercial screen-printing technology. Indium tin oxide is 
a transparent conducting thin film that has a highly visible 
transmission and low resistivity. It can be both heated the 
cell-culture area and be obtained a higher resolution 
observation. In summary, the new cell culture platform will 
provide a satisfactory, steady and automatic cell culture 
environment outside of an incubator, but also a system 
fitting high-resolution observation. This development of the 
automatic cell culture system will assure us to have a 
powerful tool to evaluate drugs and detect diseases in an 
efficient and fast way. 
Keywords: MEMS, microfluidic, continuous cell culture, 
screen-printing. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
In the past decade, micro-electro-mechanical-systems 
(MEMS) technology and micromachining techniques have 
enabled the miniaturization of biomedical and chemical 
analysis devices and systems. Furthermore, technologies for 
the realization of fluid-based microsystems have been 
demonstrated since the advent of 
micro-total-analysis-systems (μ-TAS). In cell culture 
procedures, cells are often cultured in conventional cell 
culture flasks or dishes, within the corresponding static 
culture system. The static culture here refers to the practice 
of culturing cells in a closed or semiclosed system which 
allows oxygen and carbon dioxide to exchange but the 
medium requires to be replaced periodically. Between 
culture medium replacements, however, the composition of 
the culture medium around the cells could vary with time. 
This is mainly due to the continuous consumption of 
nutrients and the production of metabolites. Not only does it 
suffer from contamination risk because of manual 
intervention, but it also results in a fluctuating and unsteady 
culture environment. Such fluctuations could hinder the 
precise quantification of the link between the cellular 
responses to the external stimulations (drugs, chemicals, and 
other agents) [1]. Conversely, perfusion cell culture systems 
are capable of not only keeping the culture system sterile 
during the entire culture period but also potentially tackling 
the above mentioned limitations by continuous nutrient 
supply and waste removal; hence keeping the culture 
environment more stable [2]. More recently, several 
microfluidic-based cell culture systems were actively 
pursued specifically for varied research purposes, e.g. for 
drug testing [3], the fundamental study of cell biology [4], 
bioassays [5], or bioprocessing [6]. 
However, efficient transportation of fluids as been 
critical for miniaturized microfluidic-based cell culture 
system. Many approaches have been demonstrated to drive 
fluids inside microchannels. Significantly, the pneumatic 
micropump, using the peristaltic motions of membranes, is 
one of the most commonly used and reliable methods. In 
addition, a series of pneumatic micropump has also been 
developed to control microfluidic flow [7-9]. However, 
These above-memtioned pumps uses several microvalves to 
drive the fluids through the microchannel.  
Besides, an efficient mixing device is also necessary in 
a cell culture chip or bio-detection system. Because the 
 4
pushed forward. Hence, the liquid is driven in a specific 
direction. Similarly, these PDMS membranes can be used as 
check valves so that the fluid flow is blocked in the 
microchannels. Meanwhile, the wall-actuated mode of 
micromixer will generate the mixing efficiency in the 
cell-culturing process. It leads the medium to quickly diffuse 
the culturing cells and to reduce the chemical and 
temperature gradient. Besides, the purpose of microheater 
chip is used to provide the uniformity thermal condition. 
Notably, the cell-cultured chamber is designed to avoid the 
shear stress to damage the cells in the pumping process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Exploded view of a cell-cultured chip.  
 
2.2 Fabrication 
The fabrication process for the developed microfluidic 
cell-culture system comprised of two modules, namely, 
thermal (i.e., heater) module and microfluidic (i.e., 
transportation and mixing) module. 
2.2. 1 Fabrication of thermal module 
This study intended to create an area of heating zone 
for perfusion cell culture outside a cell incubator. Instead of 
patterning ITO on a substrate using conventional wet 
etching techniques [37], two silver electrodes were directly 
screen printed on the two sides of a rectangular ITO glass 
with a defined heating zone of 5×5 mm according to the size 
of perfusion microbioreactor as shown in figure 2. Briefly, a 
silver metal paste (DW-250H-5, Toyobo Co., Japan) was 
prepared to screen-print onto an ITO glass substrate (100 
Ω/□, Ritek Corp., Taiwan) and was then dried at 150oC for 
40 min(Fig. 2a). During this stage, the solvent was then 
removed and the prints adhered onto the substrates (Fig. 2b). 
The film thickness is approximately 10 μm. Then, a 10 
μm-thick insulation layer (IR-T013PJ, Full-wing Co., 
Taiwan) was then screen-printed on the top of the fabricated 
silver electrodes (fig. 2c) and followed by curing at 130oC 
for 10 min (fig. 2d). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Schematically diagram of the ITO-based 
microheater chip by using screen-printing process.  
2.2.2 Fabrication of the microfluidic module 
The cell-culture chip is comprised of a three-layer 
PDMS structure and an ITO-based microheater substrate. 
Figure 3 is a schematic machining process and a PDMS 
replication process. Master molds with microstructures on 
polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) plates are first formed by 
using a CNC machine (EGX-400, Roland Inc., Japan) 
equipped with a 0.5 mm drill bit (figures 3a). The rotational 
speed and feed rate of the drill bit are 26000 rpm and 15 mm 
min−1, respectively. This is then followed by a PDMS 
casting process to form inverse images of the air chamber 
molds (figures 3b) and a PDMS spin-coating process to 
form inverse images of the fluidic channel (figures 3c) [25]. 
Finally, the PDMS structures and the ITO-based heater 
substrate are bonded together utilizing an oxygen plasma 
treatment to form the complete cell-culture chip (figure 3d). 
The photographs of the fabricated ITO-based microheater 
chip and microfluidic chip are shown in Fig. 4 (a) and (b) 
respectively. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
active valve 
   medium 
waste
cell-culture chamber 
electrode 
heating region 
air chamber check valve 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. (a) Schematic diagram of the feedback digital 
control loop, (b) A photograph of the hand-held  
 
micro-controller (17.1 cm × 11.6 cm × 6.5 cm) and (c) 
Observation on the temperature profile over time (The set 
temperature was 37oC and the temperature deviation was 
evaluated to be within ± 0.5oC) 
2.3 Experimental setup 
The experiments are performed under a microscope 
(E-400, Nikon, Japan). A high-speed charge-coupled device 
(CCD) (MC1311, Mikrotron, Germany) with a high-speed 
image acquisition interface (INSPECTA-5, Mikrotron, 
Germany) is used to acquire the optical images. The 
captured images are then analyzed using digital image 
processing techniques to evaluate the mixing index. 
On the other hand, to explore the uniformity of 
thermal field of the proposed system, infrared (IR) imager 
(Infrared Thermography TVS-200N, Nippon Avionics Co 
Ltd., Japan) was used in this study. Before observation, the 
accuracy of the temperature measurement was checked to be 
± 1°C. In this work, the focal plane was perpendicular to the 
detective light and the measurement distance to the focal 
target was set to be 30 cm. In this evaluation, the focal 
targets were the PDMS microbioreactor block, water in the 
microbioreactor chamber and the ITO glass (the emissivity 
for the IR imaging was set as 0.86, 0.96 and 0.95 for the 
material of PDMS, water and glass respectively). 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
3.1 Characterization of the micropump  
An actuated membrane with an active check-valve is 
developed and integrated into the microchannels as shown in 
Figure 6(a). As shown in figure 6(a), before the actuated 
membrane is activated, the active check-valve is vertical 
with the bottom resulting in the liquid is blocked. When the 
actuated membrane is activated, the active check valve is 
lifted and then the liquid can be drived to pass through the 
channel (Fig. 6.b). While the air exported out the air 
chamber, the actuated membrane was pulled up to the origin 
position, the active check valve thus blocked the liquid to 
back flow (Fig. 6.c). Summarily, the air is consequentially 
imported into/exported out the air chamber to push 
down/pull up the actuated membrane, the liquid will be 
transported through the channel to cell-cultured chamber to 
achieve the pumping effect.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. A cross-sectional view illustrates the working 
principle of the active check valve structure.  
In order to transport the microfluidic flow, the 
time-phased deflection of successive membranes with an 
active check valve generates a peristaltic effect that drives 
the fluid along the channel to the cell-culture chamber. The 
relationship between the pumping rate and the driving 
frequency at three different driving air pressures is shown in 
Fig. 7. The pumping rate of the pneumatic active check 
valve pump increases with the increasing driving frequency. 
When the applied driving frequency reaches a value of about 
26 Hz, the pumping rate starts to decrease due to the limit of 
the frequency response of the whole system. The 
experimental results also reveals that the increase of air 
pressures also increases the pumping rate. The maximum 
values of the pumping rate are measured to be 70, 100, and 
140 μl/min corresponding for the applied pressures of 5, 10, 
and 15 psi.  
 
 
 
(c) 
Times(s)
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
(o C
)
0 500 1000 1500 200025
30
35
40
45
 
air chamber 
actuated membrane 
active valve
fluidic channel 
(a) 
(b) (c) 
 8
Time (sec)
M
ix
in
g
in
de
x
(%
)
0 50 100 1500
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Unmixed
Mixed (f=1 Hz)
Mixed (f=2 Hz)
samples are completely mixed, and σ=0 % if samples are 
completely unmixed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10. Mixing index of the measured data at different driving 
frequencies for the two-wall-actuated membrane mode. 
 
The driving frequency of the PDMS membranes plays 
an important role in mixing and is thus also experimentally 
investigated. The mixing index for the micromixers is 
shown in figure 10. The applied air pressure is 15 psi and 
the driving frequencies are 0 (dominated by diffusion), 1.0, 
and 2.0 Hz, respectively. The results revealed that the 
mixing performance slightly increases with the increasing 
driving frequency. As we expected, mixing effect also 
increases with the total operating time. However, if the 
driving frequency is raised over 1.0 Hz to attain 2.0 Hz, then 
the mixing effect conversely decreased.  It is found that the 
mixing performance of this micromixer is directly 
dependent on the alternatively frequency of the 
wall-membrane-actuated mode micromixer. Apparently, 
wall-actuated membranes with higher driving frequencies 
induce the quicker disturbance to the flow field of the 
mixing chamber, however, the flow field cannot be 
generated a mixing performance within a quick time. It led 
the mixing effect cannot achieve a higher index than the one 
of lower alternatively frequency.. This is why the lower 
driving frequency (f = 1 Hz) achieves a better mixing effect 
than the higher frequency (f = 2 Hz). Although, the mixing 
index is not good for comparison with the previous study, 
however, the extremate mixing effect in the previous study 
will damage the culturing cells in the incubated process.  
3.3 Characterization of microheater 
3.3.1 Numerical calculation 
In order to investigate the distribution of the 
temperature field on the ITO microheater chip and inside the 
microbioreactor chamber, numerical simulation and 
experimental evaluation were carried out. Since the fluid 
flow rate of the liquid in the microbioreactor chamber was 
low, it is reasonable to assume that the heat transfer was 
dominated by heat conduction. Therefore, in this study, heat 
radiation is neglected and heat conduction within the liquid 
sample, the solid PDMS chambers wall, and the ITO glass 
substrate was considered. Here, a 3-D heat conduction 
model was used to describe the problem. The governing 
equation is given by 
(2)     
t
TCq
z
Tk
zy
Tk
yx
Tk
x p ∂
∂=+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
∂
∂
∂
∂+⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
∂
∂
∂
∂+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛
∂
∂
∂
∂ ρ&
            
where ρ, Cp, k, T and q&  denote the density of the medium, 
the specific heat of the medium, the conductivity of the 
medium, the absolute temperature of the medium, and the 
heat source at the heating element, respectively. A constant 
heat generation rate was applied at the volume of the ITO 
heater. To verify the measured steady-state temperature 
contours, a 3-D conduction simulation was completed using 
CFD software (CFD-ACU+, CFD-RC, USA). Free 
convection (i.e., x-y and x-z planes) and adiabatic condition 
(i.e., y-z plane) were imposed on the surfaces of the 
microbioreactor chip. A constant heat generation rate was 
assumed to apply on the ITO heater chip. In this study, the 
numerical geometry was mainly constructed by four parts 
(Fig. 11(a)): (1) microbioreactor cover, (2) microbioreactor 
chamber and wall, (3) PDMS membrane, and (4) ITO glass 
substrate. The numerical dimension of a microbioreactor 
chip is 10×6.0×12.2 mm3. The boundary conditions and the 
thickness of each layer were also illustrated in Figure 11(a). 
In this work, a 3-D numerical domain was discretized into 
approximately 500,000 cells with structured hexahedral 
meshes. Besides, the non-uniform mesh grids were used for 
these numerical simulations. Dense grids were used in the 
wall regions of the microbioreactor chamber. A residuals 
criterion (less than 10−6) was used to guarantee the 
convergence of the solution. Some critical parameters 
required for the simulation are listed in Table 1.  
 
Table 1 Material properties of glass, PDMS and water at the 
conditions of temperature: 298 K and pressure: 1 atm 
Material Conductivity: 
κ (Wm-1K-1) 
Density: 
ρ (kgm-3) 
Specific heat: 
C (J kg-1K-1) 
Glass 1.4 2230 840 
PDMS 0.15 970 1460 
Water 0.613 997 4160 
 
3.3.2 Evaluation of thermal uniformity 
To examine homogeneity of the thermal field on the 
developed ITO microheater chip and in the chamber of 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12 (a) 2-dimensional, (b) 3-dimensional IR images of 
microheater chip with a PDMS microbioreactor attached and, 
(c) the comparison of the temperature profile of the 
microbioreactor chamber in the PDMS microbioreactor . 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
This study has demonstrated a new integrated 
microfluidic and thermal system for cell culture. 
Transportation, mixing, and heating in an automatic process 
was successfully demonstrated by using the hand-held 
digital controller. Maximum conditions for this active check 
valve micropump with an applied pressure of 15 psi and a 
frequency of 26 Hz, respectively, were experimentally 
determined. Additional, the wall-actuated micromixer can be 
achieved the mixing efficiency of 56% as the driving 
frequency of wall actuation is 1 Hz and applied pressure of 
15 psi. Meanwhile, a transparent ITO microheater chip with 
was proposed with the attempt to serve as a thermal control 
system for perfusion cell culture outside a cell incubator. 
Furthermore, thermal simulation and experimental 
evaluation have proved that the proposed device was 
capable of providing a spatially uniform thermal condition 
and delicate temperature control with a reasonable deviation 
of ± 0.5oC, which is suitable for a general cell culture 
practice. In summary, the developed system, which 
integrated the active check valve pump, a wall-actuated 
mixer and ITO heater, can become a crucial platform in the 
applications for the purpose of cell culture. All these traits 
are not only found useful for perfusion/continuous cell 
culture outside an incubator but also facilitate the relevant 
online microscopic observation or other monitoring 
activities during cell culture.  
 
5. REFERENCES 
[1] Z.F. Cui, X. Xu, N. Trainor, J.T. Triffitt, J.P. Urban, 
U.K. Tirlapur, Toxicol. In Vitro 21, 1318–1324 (2007) 
[2] M.H. Wu, J.P.G. Urban, Z. Cui, Z.F. Cui, Biomed. 
Microdevices 8, 331–340 (2006) 
[3] T. Kraus, E. Verpoorte, V. Linder, W. Franks, A. 
Hierlemann, F. Heer, S. Hafizovic, T. Fujii, N.F. de 
Rooij, S. Koster, Lab Chip 6, 218–229 (2006) 
[4] De Bartolo, S. Saleron, S. Morelli, L. Giorno, M. 
Rende, B. Memoli, A. Procino, V.E. Andreucci, A. 
Bader, E. Drioli, Biomaterials 27, 4794–4803 (2006) 
[5] H. Kaji, M. Nishizawa, T. Matsue, Lab Chip 3, 
208–211 (2003) 
[6] N. Szita, P. Boccazzi, Z. Zhang, P. Boyle, A.J. 
Sinskey, K.F. Jensen, Lab Chip 5, 819–826 (2005) 
[7] C. W. Huang, S. B Huang, and G. B. Lee, Journal of 
Micromechanics and Microengineering, 16, 
2265-2272, (2006) 
(b) 
(a) 
Distance (mm)
Te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
(o C
)
0 10 20 30 40 50 6025
30
35
40
X-X'
Y-Y'
(c) 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告
(無)
日期： 年 月 日
一、參加會議經過
二、與會心得
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)
四、建議
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
六、其他
計畫編號
計畫名稱
出國人員
姓名
服務機構
及職稱
會議時間 會議地點
會議名稱
發表論文
題目
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林志龍 計畫編號：98-2221-E-214-039- 
計畫名稱：全自動微流體細胞培養晶片的研發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：
如 數 個 計 畫 共 同
成果、成果列為該
期 刊 之 封 面 故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
Chih-Hsin Ou Young, 
Chien-Ming Tseng, 
Kun-Da Lee, Jr-Lung 
Lin,＇＇Indium Tin 
Oxide (ITO)-based 
Microheater Chip 
Fabricated by 
Screen Printing 
Technology,＇＇The 
34th National 
Conference on 
Theoretical and 
Applied Mechanics, 
November 19-20, 
2010 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 50% 
目 前 , 有 關 於
micropump 與
microheater 已經完
成英文本,正在校稿
中,預計 2010.12 將
submit 相關的國外
期刊. 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
國外 
專利 申請中件數 0 0 100% 件  
 
